The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


Zhc Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. 28. No. 4 luly-August, 1950 
James E. Armstrong. '25. Editor John P. Bums. '34. Managing Editor John N. Cackley. Ir.. '37. Associate Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939. at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Table of Contents 

LOBUND INSTITUTE DEDICATION 3 LAETARE MEDAL PRESENTATION 4 DEGREES AWARDED TO 750 GRADS 5 DEANS REVIEW ND PROGRESS 6 CLUB PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 9 1950 FOOTBALL ROSTER 11 ALUMNI CLUBS 14 THE OLD CROU'D 21 ALUMNI CLASSES 22 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS  
FRANXIS  WALLACE,  '23  _  Monorary  President  
LEO B . WARD, '20  President  
REV. VINCENT P. BRENNAN, '32  J'irst  Vice-President  
JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27  _  Second  Vice-President  
ARTHUR D . CRONIN, JR., '37  Third  Vice-President  

DIRECTORS TO 1951 ARTHUR D . CRONIX, JR., '37 J>632 Buhl BIdg., Detroit 26, Mich. LEO B . WARD, '20 214^ Rowan Bldg., Los Angeles 13, Calif. JOSEPH M . BOI.AND, '27 Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. REV. VIXCEXT P. BRENXAN, '32....408 Baldwin Rd., Pittsburgh, 7, Pa. 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 WILLIAM J. SHERRY, '21 804 Kennedy Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 7102 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. 
R. CONROY SCOCGINS, '24 480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDWARD J. BECKMAX, '16 40 South Dr., Plandome, A'. J'. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 JOHN Q . ADAMS, '26 758 Lorraine, Upper Montclair, N. J. HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 6235 Kenmore, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Mirector and Secretary 
(Ed. note: The following paragraphs, re­printed from "Fortune" magazine are presented for general information.) 


A Parable of Our Times 
or 

$676 for "The Creative Ones" 
HOW TO MAKE $676 BY GIVING AWAY $15,000 
Since tax credit is given for the full pres­ent value of stock transferred to education­al institutions, the net cost to the donor is greatly reduced if he makes his contribu­tion in appreciated stock. He thereby elim­inates the 25 per cent capital gains tax and liberates cash income from taxation. 
Take the case of a man with $100,000 of taxable income who owns stock that has increased in value from $10 to $100 a share. If he transfers 150 shares of stock (worth $15,000) to an educational institution, he pays no capital gains tax, and his taxable income is reduced to $85,000. The tax on this amount is $51,699, and his net income therefore, is $48,301. Had he sold the 150 shares (thereby similarly liquidating capi­tal) and made no contribution, he would have had to pay a capital gains tax of $3,375 (25% of the $13,500 gain) and in­come taxes of $64,000 on his $100,000 in­come. This would have left him a total of $47,625, so he actually saves $676 by giv­ing away $15,000.* 
Although such cases naturally are excep­tional, the fact that they can occur at all suggests the importance of this type of giv­ing. Substantial savings, and sometimes a profit, can be made by transferring stock, that has appreciated in value, to education­al institutions. 
: • Fortune, .\ugust 1947, p. 109 and 140. 
Certain changes in income tax rates would alter some of the figures in the above example but would not prevent a net tax saving in the case cited. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
vr f"^^ * r:: ^ •^-Kf^-^^ii'Vis^ 

LOBUND Institute Dedicates Germ-Free Life Laboratories on North Campus 
The importance to the modern world of pure scientific research, such as that being conducted in colleges and univer­sities throughout the United States, Avas stressed by nationally prominent speak­ers during the opening session of a sym­posium June 21 on "Science and Society" at the University. 
Speakers at the opening session of the symposium, held in conjunction with the dedication of a new Germ-Free Labora­tDry in the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame (LOBUND), included: Dr. Bradley Dewey, President of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Company, Cambridge, Mass., and Chairman of the Advisory Council for Science and Engi­neering at Notre Dame; Dr. Ira Bald­win, Vice-President of Academic Aifairs at the University of Wisconsin; Dr. Rob­ert Chambers, Professor Emeritus at New York University; and Dr. Charles DeKoninck, Dean of the Faculty of Phi­losophy at Laval University, Quebec, Canada. 
Professor James A. Eeyniers, founder and Director of LOBUND which was announced as an Institute for Research in the Life Sciences, presided as chair­man of the symposium and told the audi­ence that "it is one thing to accept the material benefits of science and quite an­other to allow it to become a way of life." There is mutual responsibility, he said between science and society to care for each other. 
"The amount of intelligence and ener­gy that has been spent upon trying to prevent a future war through explora­tion of psychological, psychiatric tech­niques is practically negligible. This is a great unexplored region for basic and applied science." 
Although the "ideas and actions that emanate from the Kremlin are most dif­ficult from our way of thinking," Mr. Davis ventured the opinion that "it may 
July-August, 1950 
not be too late for this great idsological and emotional conflict to be resolved if it could be approached in the same way that a problem in physical and biologi­cal science would be approached." 
Admiral Solberg declared during the symposium that "the industry of tomor­row will rely more and more upon the activities of the plant and animal world —upon the chemical work performed by plants and micro-organisms. Admiral Solberg was unable to attend the Sym­posium personally and his address was delivered by Dr. Roger D. Reid, Head of the Microbiology Branch, Biological Sci­ences Division, Office of Naval Research. 
The Chief of Naval Research said that he is in agreement with the statement that "the photochemical energy resulting from photosynthesis might be more val­uable to man than atomic energy." 
Speaking of Naval Research, Admiral Solberg pointed out that "it is our mis­sion to stimulate, encourage, and coordi­nate research and development in all fields that will help to defend this na­tion in times of emergency and to assure better health and a more secure economy for the nation at all times." He said that it always has been the policy of the Navy to "have the monies we spend on research and development come back to the taxpayer in some way wherever pos­sible." 
Dr. Woolpert, in his symposium ad­dress, likened the world to "a culture which we can examine as bacteriologists might study a culture of micro-organ­isms." 
"Let us recognize frankly that our world culture is mixed, that nature has contrived it thus," Dr. Woolpert declar­ed. "Let us have faith in the potential compatibility, indeed the mutual inter­dependence, of diverse elements and squarely face the problem of resolving basic maladjustments." 

Reunion Greaf Success 
The 1950 reunion; had everything, in­cluding a treatment of Indiana's famed and variable weather. 
Nine hundred and seventy made the annual Alumni Banquet Saturday night, Jun3 10, and heard Father Cavanaugh, University President, review the year at Notre Dame. His impressive speech will be reported in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Mr. Leo Ward, National Alumni Pres­ident reported on the Alumni Board meeting which was held simultaneously with the reunions and Hon. Frank C. Walker, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Notre Dame Founda­tion gave a report on the year's activity. 
Athletic Trainer Hugh Burns award­ded the prizes for the Alumni Golf Tour­nament which this year attracted a record 248 players. Surprise of the en­tire tournament was Mr. Frank McCar­ty, of Kokomo. He played 18 holes Fri­day, June 9, and managed to break 100. Saturday, June 10, he played another 18 and scored 105 but managed to grab the prize for the least putts on 18 holes. Mr. McCarty graduated in 1893 and was 76 last February. 
The class of 1935 claims the highest number of reunioners, 161. The Silver Anniversary Class (1925) took over Lyons Hall and had movies in the arch­way. 1915, 1920, 1910 and 1905 shared Howard Hall and their memories, both of which were far from absolute quiet. 1940 and 1945 shared Alumni Hall and 1935 was in Dillon. 
While all Notre Dame men look for­ward to returning some time to the University, perhaps the richest experi­ence taken away from the 1950 reunions was taken by the members of the 50-Year Club. The 50-Year Award presented to Mr. Louis C. M. Reed of New York at the Alumni Banquet and subsequently mailed to all members of the club has evoked the most deeply-felt sentiments regarding Notre Dame and what she means to her graduates. A few of these letters are reprinted at the head of the Classes Section in this issue. 

Notre Dame is happy to welcome you 
Laetare Medal Presented to Gen. Collins into that disting^uished company of Catholic Americans whom she has been proud to honor, and to confer upon you 

During 105th Commencement Exercises this Laetare Medal." 
The University on June 4 formally con­ferred its 1950 Laetare Medal, awarded annually to the outstanding American Catholic layman, on General J. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff of the United States Army. 
General Collins received the medal at ceremonies held following Noti'e Dame's 105th Commencement Exercises in the Stadium. General Collins was announced as the C8th recipient of the medal on March 19, Laetare Sunday, which is the fourth Sunday of Lent. 
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president of Notre Dame, in the citation accompanying the medal, told General Collins that "your life as a professional soldier has been dedicated to the peace of America, and in the pursuance of that duty you have risen from the i-ank of second lieutenant to the highest position in the American army, its Chief of Staff." 
The citation recalled that "during the late war, as Chief of Staff of the Sev­enth Army Corps, you were responsible for one of its decisive victories, the cap­ture of Cherbourg" and "in time of peace you served .. . in a number of executive positions where the making of American soldiers was your i-esponsibil­ity." Father Cavanaugh, in reading the citation, told the Chief of Staff that "you have been all that is implied in a great soldier." 
"But, sir, all our warring is not with flesh and blood," the citation continued. "The Christian has also to wrestle with 'princedoms and powers, with those who have the mastery of the world in these dark days, with malign influences in an order higher than ours.' And in that warfare, too, you have shown yourself a true soldier. You have not been un­mindful of the counsel of another great soldier, battle-scarred in both kinds of war, St. Paul. 
" 'Take up all God's armour then,' he 
•\\Tote, 'so you will be able to stand your ground when the evil time comes, and be found still on your feet when all the task is over. Stand fast, your loins girt with truth, the breastplate of justice fitted on, and your feet shod in readiness to pub­lish the gospel of peace. With all this take up the shield of faith, with which you will be able to quench all the fire-tipped arrows of your wicked enemy; make the helmet of salvation your own, and the sword of the spirit, God's word'." 
The Notre Dame president concluded: "Through all the vicissitudes of the life of a soldier, you have shown yourself a stalwart Catholic man, an exemplary husband and father, and a commander whose character has won the respect, admiration and affection of your fellow officers and men. 
"For these reasons, the University of 

A Friend Leaves 
Capt. Bernard F. McMahon, one of the best-liked Navy officers ever to be on duty at the University, left July 1 for duty with the Fleet Submarins Force. 
During his tenure as commanding of­ficer of Navy units at the University, the NEOTC rifle team won a national championship. 
Capt. McMahon, although an Annapo­lis product, is regarded by most persons who wei-e associated with him at the University as embodying all the fine tra­ditions of a Notre Dame graduate. A much-decorated hero of World War II, he earned the Navy Cross, Silver Star and Bronze Star. 
His submarines made seven combat patrols against Japanese shipping in the South Pacific. 
General Collins, in accepting the med­al, said he cinsidered it not a personal honor but "a recognition by Notre Dame of the part played by millions of men and women in the armed forces through­out the world who are rendering service to their God and their country." 
The Chief of Staff of the United States Army declared that many people in the country look with suspicion on the Army during peacetime. "These suspi­cions are unfounded," General Collins declared. "In our democracy the military must be, and is, subservient to the people," 
Dr, OHo Bird Will Teach New A.B. Course 

Dr. Otto Bird, nationally-prominent leader in the Great Books movement, has been named Director of the new General Program of Liberal Education which will be inaugurated in September at the University, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president, announced recently. 
The unique Notre Dame Program of Liberal Education, designed to answer the need for a basic and general educa­tion on the college level, is built around the master works of the Western Civili­zation—^the great books from the ancient Greeks to the moderns—^and around the technique of teaching through discus­sion. 
Dr. Bird, since 1946, has been Assist­ant Editor of the "Syntopicon," the ana­lytical index of the "Great Books of the Western World," published by the "En­cyclopedia Britannica" and the Univer­sity of Chicago. Editor of the "Syntopi­con" is Dr. Mortimer Adler, of the Uni­versity of Chicago. 
Dr. Bird was educated at the Univer­sity of Michigan, the University of Chi­cago, and received his doctorate at the University of Toronto in 1939. The doc­torate was earned in philosophy at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto. 
The new Notre Dame program direc­tor formerly taught at St. Michael's College in Toronto and at St. John's University in Brooklyn, N. Y. Dr. Bird also formerly was associate editor of the CIP Correspondence, a weekly news­letter published in New York by the Catholic International Press. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 





Notre Dame Confers Degrees on 750 Graduates 
Honorary degrees were conferred June 4 by the University at its 105th Com­mencement on a Catholic archbishop, a newspaper publisher, a business execu­tive, a diplomat and an Irish priest. 
As 750 June graduates left the Uni­versity, honorary Doctor of Laws de­grees were conferred by University President Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., upon Most Keverend Francis P. Keough, Archbishop of Baltimore; Mr. 
F. A. Miller, publisher and president of the South Bend Tribune; Mr. Charles 
P. Williams, president of the Western and Southern Life Insurance Co.; Hon. John J. Heame, Irish ambassador to the 
U. S., and Msgr. John P. Carroll-Abbing, founder of "Boys' Town" in Italy. 
Archbishop Keough delivered the Bac­calaureate Sermon on Commencement Sunday and Mr. Heame made the Com­mencement Address. Most Rev. Keough was consecrated Bishop of Providence, 
R. L, in 1934 and transferred to Balti­more in 1947. Among his other duties he is currently vice-chairman of the Ad­ministrative Board of the National Catholic Welfare Conference and chair­man of the Department of Education of the N.C.W.C. 
Mr. Miller, who joined the staff of the South Bend Tribune in 1887 on his grad­uation from high school, became presi­dent of the paper in 1924. Under his direction the paper has become one of the most respected in the middle west. Mr. Miller is a member of the National Press Club and was first president of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce. 

Mr. Williams, a member of the Uni­versity Board of Lay Trustees has twice been honored by the Vatican. He was made a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory, and has been appointed as Master Knight of the Sovereign Order of Malta. Mr. Williams was elect­ed vice-president and general counsel of the Western and Southern Life Insur­ance Co. in 1910. In 1931 he became president. Repeatedly he has been called to the White House in times of national emergency for consultation and to at­tend conferences of business leaders. 
The Irish ambassador, who assumed his current duties March 29, was former­ly High Commissioner of Ireland in Can­ada. With Eamon de Valera, he drafted the Irish Constitution which was ap­proved by the people in 1937. Mr. Heame has also been Assistant Attorney Gener­al of Ireland and Legal Adviser to the Irish Department of External Affairs. 
July-August, 1950 
Mr. Heame told the 750 gnraduates that "European nation after European nation has imperilled its freedom by for­saking the path of truth, honour and justice." He pointed out that "it is the truth that makes us free" and "peace is a work of justice." 
"European nation after European na­tion had given up the practice of the Faith upon which it was historically founded," Mr. Heame declared. "They had deprived their public law of its final sanction, and the morality of their people of its final motive. It is the Faith which makes us whole. Private infidelities were followed by public apostascy and the unity and solidarity of Europe was . . . politically shattered by the Schism. 
"I say 'politicalljr' because morally Europe was smashed on the deadly rocks of pride, covetousness, lust, anger, gluttony, envy and sloth. But the code itself was not destroyed. The whole in­tellectual tradition survived, the tra­dition of an objective truth, of an ob­jective beauty, and an objective virtue or goodness, a sense of the issues of right and wrong, of justice and injus­tice, and a sense of standards in private and public behaviour." 
The Irish ambassador reminded the 
Notre Dame graduates that "never be­fore has mankind been so much in need of the true pattern as well as the true tradition of human life formed in the Mind of its Desig^ner and spun from the Hand of its Author." 
"The world needs teachers much: but it needs models more," Mr. Heame em­phasized. "And if we be not the models there will be none. On us and our ex­ample will depend the issue of whether or not the image of God is written upon the character of this and the next gen­erations." 
Archbishop Keough, in his Baccalau­reate Sermon, warned that the "material achievements of almost two thousand years of Christianity in eastern Europe are crumbling before the hideous jugger­naut of Communism. 

"Where this dreadful, cancerous thing has entered into the members of the Body of Christ, it has paralyzed the nerve centers by destroying leadership— it has cut off the vital supply of spiri­tual nourishment by breaking communi­cation between the members of the vis­ible heart and head of Christendom—^it has choked off the many organs of the Body of the Church through which the 
(Continued on Page 10) 

" ^ i" ("^ *-w^'v'> •%•-'•.''« •. ^ , ^ .J^ -i* ^ -- "^-^ „ '^"^,"7- '' 
^^h. ^^^Bf^^^ ^^^J^l^l 



r ^ #^ 
^^^f 
PL ^^•L—.—^LL '8 
fsmmm^^ 
Honorary degree-holders with General J. Lawton CoIIias and Father John J. Caranaai^: Mr. Miller, Mr. Williams, ArcUidiop Kew«h, Gcneial Odlins, Mr. Heame, Msgr. CarroD-AUnq;, Fatiwr Cavanaugh. 


Deans Review SO-Year Progress of University 
For the Alumni who did not attend the reunions, and for the Alumni who made the reunions but did not attend the Deans' Forum Saturday, June 10, the ALUMNUS presents here a summary by the deans of the history and progress in the University's five colleges. 
Father Frank Cavanaugh, C.S.C, dean of Arts and Letters was unable to be present, and Father Charles Miltner, C.S.C, became the logical choice to pre­sent the Arts and Letters summary. 
.•\rts and Letters For the first twenty one years of its existence the University of Notre Dame was just a college of liberal arts. Like most of its predecessors in the United States, it owes its existence to a religious motive. This is not strange, for secular­ism had not yet arisen to rob life of its true purpose and men of a just apprecia­tion of their true dignity. In 1844, as in colonial times, it was still commonly accepted as a self-evident truth that men were created by God, and that of all things it was most important to know him and how to attain him, to know, that is, the reason for being on earth. 
In their philosophy, men were there­fore not regarded merely as bmte ani­mals moved necessarily by instinctive mechanisms to live out the pi-edetei­

• mined order of their lives. They under­stood that, though the brute was incap­able of education, he was nearly self­suincient from the beginning of his exist­ence. They knew, as we who possess the same philosophy of man and the same faith in God know, that men are born free agents; that they depend on the care and direction of others for their very survival for many years after birth, and for the normal development of their physical, intellectual and moral powers on living in the society of their fellows. Because men are free, and bs­cause right choice depends on an inform­ed and cultivated mind, education is in­dispensable to them. Unlike the brute animal, men must be taught the meaning and purpose of life. They must discover and learn laboriously to use the means to that end. They must construct and maintain the moral order of their lives. 
It is clear too that this education must be such as to minister directly to the needs of man as man, to human excel­lence; and that is precisely what liberal education is. It alone then is first not only in time but also in importance. All other education presupposes it and depends upon it. Though preeminence is nowa­days often given to scientific education, it must be remembered that "the Golden Age of Greece existed without benefit of physics, chemistry or even of genetics." Science, as the term is currently em­ployed, yields information about material things, but however useful or valuable it may be, it is not wisdom, not a knowl­edge of anything through its ultimate causes, not therefore a knowledge capable of satisfying man's deepest needs. In­formation is important, but not all-im­portant. Someone has said: "Soon we shall have the universe completely tabu­lated, and no one will know what it 
Father Miltner 
means." Understanding really comes through a knowledge of final causes, and these science claims not to know. 
Now the first need of man as man is language. Its possession is the very evi­dence of his rational nature. It is his first need because it is the key to all the rest. Without it, he can neither think, nor communicate his thoughts to others, nor collaborate with them in the mani­fold and necessary enterprises of social life. Without it, he can not enter into the possession of his spiritual inherit­ance, the accumulated wisdom of the past. His ability to use it effectively is the measure of his influence on others, as his lack of facility in its use seals off and renders useless whatsver other learn­ing he may possess. 
His next need is for information about the world in which he lives. He is not here guided, as are the brute animals, by instinct. His free nature obliges him to learn what they possess without learn­ing. Furthermore, it is obvious that ivithout such knowledge he could not sur­vive. Nature's law is: obey or die. Things then, their natures, the general laws that govern them, and their several relation­ships to him,—what falls under the heading of general science form the ob­ject of his second educational need. 
A while back, I mentioned the neces­sity man is under of constructing the moral order of his whole life. His actions, then, his conduct in all the departments of practical life, require definite object­ive norms, not merely to avoid fatal blun­ders, but in order to be positively just and right and good. Since man is by nature a social animal, this final group of studies is aptly called the social sci­ences, including as it does both ethics and religion. Now these needs which are uni­versally experienced, explain both the character and the relative constancy of the liberal arts curriculum. Wherever man and human living are rightly under­stood it will be substantially the same. Whether education shall be qualified as liberal or as professional or vocati:nal de­pends, not on the subject studied, but on the reason why it is studied. Sir Richard Livingstone quotes Aristotle as saying that "in education it makes all the differ­ence why a man does or learns anything; if he studies or learns it for the sake of his own development or with a view to excellence it is liberal." (On Education, 
71) It happens that language study, the physical sciences as information, and the social sciences for proper norms and ade­quate motivation for conduct are indis­pensable for the development and excel­lence of man as man anywhere and at any time. As human nature does not change essentially with the passing years, so neither do man's basic needs. As Hut­chins says: "In general education we are interested in dirawing out the elements of our common human nature; we are inter­ested in the attributes of the race, not the accidents of individuals.'" (Hie/her Education, 73) 
This of course docs not mean that during the last fifty years there have been no changes in the" liberal arts col­lege. Though the same aim has been maintained and substantially the same curriculum, there have been modifica­tions of time elements, such as the re­duction in total semester hours from 175 to 136, and of weekly instruction periods from five to three; of emphasis, in that, though eschewing electivism, fewer sub­jects are now as rigidly prescribed. There is less diffusion of effort and a greater concentration on a particular group of studies during the last two years. Far more efScient use is made of both library and of laboratory. Lec­tures both by visiting scholars and by distinguished Faculty members are more 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

numerous, as are departmental and in­terdepartmental seminars. There has of course been a notable increase in the size of both student body and Faculty. In 1905, for example the total number of students in this college was 66, while in 1949 it had risen to 1308. Where in 1905 one man taught all of the subjects in philosophy, the present staff numbers twenty five. In general there is nov/ more detailed organization, smaller classes and lower teaching loads. On the other hand increased growth has brought with it regrettable changes in human rela­tions. Many students are now unacquaint­ed with members of their ov/n cla3s, and even some Faculty members are all but strangers to one another. Like the modam v/orld of which it is a part, the University community, though it has adopted many time and labor saving de­vices, seems to have less and less time available for work, and almost none left for the leisurely and delectable living, with regard to which the Notre Dame men of fifty years ago displayed, many think, a judgment far superior to our own. 
—Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C. 
College of Science 

The University of Notre Dame is one of the few schools in the country which maintains a separate college for the ad­ministration of programs which are pre­dominantly scientific in nature. A com­parison of our programs in science with those offered by arts and science divi­sions in many universities shows many cloce similarities; the only difference is in the degree which is awarded for the academic work. 
From the founding of the Univer­sity in 1842, until 1865, the only courses offered were the traditional ones in arts and letters. At that time provisions were made for courses in science. In 1897 the University was organized in four units — arts and letters, science, engineering, and lav/; in 1905 these di­visions came to be designated as col­leges. 
The existence of a separate college of science is undoubtedly a carry-over from a period when the University of­fered a great many special programs. While this practice is still common and necessary in the larger, and particu­larly the state universities, the trend in the private and smaller schools is to unification and simplification of the academic programs. The accrediting organizations for the standardization of highly specialized and professional programs quite often make demands which cannot be met by the smaller and private institutions having a lower and limited enrollment. In 1920 the College of Science offered no less than 14 differ-
July-August, 1950 
ent programs, including one in agri­
culture and two in pharmacy. 
The department of agriculture was discontinued in the early 1930"s, the de­partment of pharmacy in 1939. At the present time the College of Science is made up of five departments. Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, and Geology, each offering a program lead­ing to the Bachelor of Science degree in the particular division. 
The Department of Biology, headed by Kev. Eobert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., with Donald J. Plunkett as assistant head, is made up of two divisions, botany 
Dean Baldingcr 

and zoology, and is housed in the Bi­ology Building at the north end of the campus. The Laboratories of Bacteri­ology occupy the basement of this building and are a part of the depart­ment. 
All of the required and elective courses in botany and zoology for the entire university are administered by this department which is staffed with 15 full-time faculty members and 12 research associates and teaching fel­lows. In the Biology Building are lo­cated the Nieuwland and Greene Her­baria and Libraries, also the V/en-ninger-Klrsch Zoological Library. 
The editorial offices of the American Midland Naturalist, a professional scientific journal, issued bimonthly and devoted to the natural history of the Midwestern States, are also located here. At the present time the journal is under the capable editorship of Dr. John D. Mizelle. This journal was started in April 1909 by the late Eev. Julius A. Nieuwland, c.s.C, whose fame in chemistry has frequently obscured but has not dimmed his achievements in botany and pharmacognosy. 
The Department of Chemistry, with 
Mr. Charles C. Price as head and Mr. Andrew J. Boyle as administrative head, is made up of 16 staff members and 27 associates and teaching fellows. The program in this department for un­dergraduates, which is designed to pre­pare them for teaching, graduate work, or for professional careers, is accred­ited by the American Chemical Society, on the recommendation of its Commit­tee on the Professional Training of Chemists. 
In the Departmsnt of Physics, which is headed by Eev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C., a staff of 15 senior faculty mem­bers and 23 associates, administers a rigorous program which is to prepare the undergraduate for industrial work or to undertake graduate training in physics. As a rule, if the student is in­terested primarily in industrial work, he is advised to g^ into electrical en­gineering. 
The Department of Mathematics, made up of thirteen (13) staff members and 12 associates, is headed by Mr. Ar­nold E. Ross. The program in mathe­matics is designed primarily for prep­aration to go into graduate studies and includes a number of courses in the other sciences. For those students who v.-ish to specialize in mathematics alone, the department offers a special program in the College of Arts and- Letters lead­ing to the Bachelor of Arts degree. 
The Department of Geology is the latest addition to the College of Science and is an outgrowth of the Department of Mining Engineering which was dis­continued in the early 30's. Ijt pro­vides a strong program for students who plan to undertake graduate work or to become professional commercial or teaching geologists. The department is headed by Mr. Archie MacAlpin with Mr. Raymond Gutschick as acting head; four staff members make up the faculty. 
In connection with the excellent work of this department, a word of tribute should go to Professor Emeritus Knowles B. Smith who is now curator of the Science Museum and whose un­tiring efforts in the restoration and ex­hibition of the valuable specimens housed there have made it one of the show-places of the University. 
At the present time the Department of Geology is located in the Main Build­ing. Science Hall houses the Museum, the Departments of Mathematics and Physics, also the Science Library; the new Science Building which is sched­uled for erection in the near future will serve Chemistry, Physics, and Mathe­matics, and will relieve the crowded and dangerous conditions which exist at present. The present Chemistry Hall, which was enlarged by the addition of the Chemical Engineering Annex about ten years ago, and by the annexation 
of the old post office to serve as a li­brary about twelve years ago, will con­tinue to be used after the new Science Building is erected. 
Although the enrollment of science majors in the college is not high, be­tween 500 and 600, the course registra­tions in the individual departments are very heavy because of the many senice courses which are administered for other divisions in the University. 
One of the largest groups in the Col­lege of Science is made up of prepro­fessional students — premedical, pre­dental, pre-law, and teaching—and those who wish to get a general train­ing in science without following one of the specialized programs. The Univer­sity is recognized by the American Medical Association as an accredited premedical school; the proper selection of courses in the program leading to a Bachelor of Science degree will qualify the student to apply for admission to any school of medicine or dentistiy in this country. A combination program in science and law is now available; the degree of Bachelor of Science is con­ferred at the end of the fifth year of this combination course, and the degree of Bachelor of Laws at the end of the sixth year; the_ student is free to select science courses in this program to suit his own wishes. 
Nothing has been said in this report about the graduate work in the various departments of the College of Science, this because of the publicity which has appeared previously in the various Uni­versity publications, also because these activities have been coordinated into the Graduate School, headed by Rev. Philip 
S. Moore, C.s.c, Dean. To give com­plete and worthy consideration to all of the many research projects in the Col­lege of Science would require much more time than has been allotted to me, and would be beyond the scope of this report on the status of the undergradu­ate division. 
Two of the major problems which confront those of us who administer the programs in the College of Science are the selection of students properly quali­fied to carry out the intensive programs, as well as the proper procedure in ad­vising those who find that they have mistaken an interest for an aptitude in a particular field of science. In these problems we have been aided immeas­urably by Mr. Edward Quinn and his staff in the Department of Guidance and Testing. 
Be assured, gentlemen, that your sons, brothers,, and relatives v7ho come to Notre Dame and who find their way to the Department of Guidance and Testing via the deans' offices will be treated with the same consideration and kindness we would expect for our own youngsters. 
The great interest in science which developed during and since the last war has brought largs numbers of young­sters to the colleges; in too many in­stances, however, the background, the abilities, the aptitudes, and the par­ental advice or coercion have not been commensurate with the interest they profess in their choice of vocations. An important and invaluable aid to us in directing these boys to programs for 
Dean McCarthy 
which they have the ability and in which they will be happy, is the co­operation and understanding of the parents. 
In closing, it is fitting and proper to pay tribute to the loyal group of faculty members, both religious and lay, not only in the College of Science, but also in the entire University, whose efforts in the profession of teaching make our own work easier and more enjoyable; also a word in memory of those whose work and accomplishments in the Col­lege of Science still serve as an example and a stimulus to those of us engaged in the present-day training of science-conscious youngsters.—L. H. BaJdinger 
College of Commerce 
I think it ever so appropriate that Notre Dame's Alumni have willingly elected to hear reports relating to the conduct of the various Colleges of the University. I say this because I think there is a continuing bond between you and ourselves—a bond that is not term­inated by graduation or age since you bearers of the Notre Dame hallmark, must, by reason of this designation, have a continuing and irrevocable in­terest in our plans, our conduct, and our aspirations. 
I think it is eminently appropriate too, that you should hear first-hand from tis of those goals towards which we are pointing our activities and to know in reasonable detail why we are committed to work toward achievement in certain prescribed areas. 
In the College of Commerce we con­ceive it to be our obligation to our 1400 students to maintain a correct balance between the primary purpose of educa­tion, which is to perfect a student's spiritual being and prepare him for im­mortality, and subordinately, to prepare him for successful living. 
Strange though it may seem, this seemingly simple balance between pri­mary and secondary things has become complex and unbalanced in too many of the modem educational dicta beins ad­vocated today. 
In the ascendancy of certain "practi­cal" education theories in some colleges and schools of commerce, a philosophy has gained currency that only those courses of instruction that will supply students with new and up-to-the-minute techniques are desirable. That nothing is desirable that does not serve con­venience. 
We take the view at Notre Dame that specialization develops only part of a student. And, that undebatedly, and ir­revocably, our processes of education must deal with the relation of men to God and the relation of men to men. We do not want student acquisition of un­related details to become an end in it­self and take the place of a true Chris­tian ideal of education. We hold this view because we know that things of highest values are not effected by the passage of time. 
Succinctly stated, this is our profes­sion of faith relating to the enduring code of values that is the basis upon which the College of Commerce carries on its function. 
In the area that has to do with prep­aration for successful and responsible living we want our students to re-inter­pret and adapt Christian values to the social and economic environment of our times. We want them to acquire wisdom in dealing with human organizations and administrative principles in all their aspects, since instruction and guidance in these areas, is one of the real purposes of the Commerce College. 
We want them to have that clarity of thinking that will help them in combat­ting the political and economic heresies that have gained currency in our coun­try. We want to know that despite wars and disturbances, the doctrine of human cooperation must remain the guiding spirit of a developing civilization. We want our students to have an awareness of the evils inherent in the evangelistic schemes that would make our people the servants of government instead of the 
(Continued on Next Page, Col. 3) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

'38; Houston—Raymond B. Keatin^r, '35; Club Presidents and Alumni Board of Tri-State (Ky., Ind. and HI.)—Robert 
Lamey, '28; Michigan City—Dr. C. W. 
Kolanczyk, '33, and Hugh Bums, '39; Directors Meet on Campus During June Detroit—Louis P. Halone, '15; Dearborn 
The (Third) Club President's Council and the Board of Directors of the Alum­ni Association met in separate and joint sessions at the University, recently. 
Seventy local alumni club presidents attended a two-day conference, June 8-9, and listened, as v/ell as suggested, how best to operate the alumni club program. It was the first meeting of this type since 1947 and representatives displayed unusual interest in the entire schedule of events. 
Various panel sessioag included dis­cussions on club fundamentals, Prestige program, placement service, Notre Dame Foundation, athletic activities and en­rollment. 
Presidents heard how club programs were functioning not only in metropoli­tan organizations but also in the cities 
•with smaller alumni populations. Uni­versity officials participating in the con­ference included Father Louis Thornton, C.s.C, Registrar; Bill Dooley, Placement Director and former assistant alumni secretary; Ed Krause, Hugh Bums, Herb Jones and Bob Cahill from the athletic department; and Ray Donovan, Public Information department. Father John Cavanaugh, University president, addressed the group on "The Club is No­tre Dame in its Community." 
The Alumni Association Board of Di­rectors held their June meeting two days prior to Reunion weekend. Leo B. Ward, Los Angeles, president of the Alumni Association, presided with the entire membership attending. Committee reports were given on. the Budget, Foun­dation, class activities, job counseling, preparatory schools, religion and citizen­ship, inter-alumni relations and prestige. 
In addition to Mr. Ward the following Board members were here: John Q. Adams, Upper Montclair, N. J.; William 
B. Jones, Washington, D. C; Edward J. Beckman, Plandome, N. Y.; William J. Sherry, Tulsa; Harvey G. Foster, India­napolis; R. Conroy Scoggins, Houston, Te-vas; Father Vincent P. Brennan, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., Detroit, Mich.; Richard J. Nash, Chica­go, 111.; Dr. Matthew Weis, St. Louis, Mo.; Joesph M. Boland, South Bend; and Francis Wallace, Bellaire, Ohio. 
Club Presidents in Attendance at Council 
Northern California—^William T. Daly, '41; Fort Wayne—Edwin J. Wesner, '25; Youngstovm—Francis Hopkins, '41; Southwestern Conn. — Vice President Nicholas Lanese, '37; Harrisburg—Rep­resentatives Joseph Farrell, '15, and Thomas P. Carpagno, '25; Mid-Hudson Valley—Francis J. Sanfilippo, '47; Pitts­burgh—John Monteverde, '33; Mohawk Valley—Secretary Edward J. Sweeney, '30; Baltimore—Edward F. Spori, Jr., '34; Ohio Valley—Joseph F. Sargus, '49; Washington, D. C.—Thomas J. Flynn, '35; Phoenix—Glen J. McDonough, '32. 
Denver—^Thomas G. Currigan,' '41; Oregon—Oscar Quoidback, '48; Boston— Jack Nye Duffey, '35; Greater Miami— Fred Jones, Jr., '47, and Secretary Jer­ome P. Holland; Rochester, N. Y.—Rich­ard T. Sullivan, '32; Kansas City (Mo. and Kans.)—Edward J. Reardon, '37. 
Los Angeles—^Lou Berardi, '31; Spo­kane—Vincent P. Slatt, '43; Fox River Valley, Wis.—Robert F. Bernard, '36; Neiv Jersey—Thomas B. Hogan, '39; Cleveland—John J. Elder, '30; Central (New Jersey)—Michael Balog,'34; Day­ton—Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30; Monon­gahela Valley—Charles R. Montgomery, 'Z5;Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—Jerome C. Arnold, '24; New York City—James H. Shells, '35; Scranton—Michael B. Comerford, '43; Wilkes-Barre—Edward J. Rowan, '35; Saginaiu Valley—Carl W. Doozan, '38; Dubith-Superior—Vfm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41; rnfea—Loyd F. Worley, '39 and representative William B. Padon, '41. 
Virginia—^Vice President Paul M. Mor­rison, '40; Fort Smith, Ark.—Raymond 
A. Marre, '37; Buffalo—^Vice President Maurice F. Quinn, '38; Cincinnati—^Rob­ert C. Burke, '37; Wabash Valley—Vf. W. Runge, '39. 
Montana—Bernard Grainey, '43; St. Louis—^Vincent J. Fehlig, '34, and rep­resentative Jack Grifiin, '39; Indianapo­Hs^Harvey G, Foster, '39; Philadelphia -^Ambrose F. Dudley, Jr., '43; NoHh Florida—John F. Lanahan, '43; Pioneer Valley—Henry M. Padden, '24; Connec­ticut VaZ/e?/—Matthew C. Meskell, '29. 
Son Diego—Emmett McCabe, '29; New Orleans—^Thomas F. McMahon, '29; Rock River Valley—^Paul J. Fry, '27; Rhode Island and S. E. Massachusetts— Russell L. Hunt, '39; Memphis—T. J. Foley, Jr., '35; Grand Rapids and Wes­tern Michigan—Edward R. Dunn, '36. 
Chicago—John Lacey, '38; Toledo— Faustin J. Solon, Jr., '38; Sioux-Land (Iowa)—Edward Simonich, '39; Green Bay—Thomas F. Heardon, '27; Des Moines—Joseph E. Casey, '41; WestVir­ginia—^Albert H. Kessing, '40; Central Illinois—Lando E. Howard, '39; Twin Cities (Minn.)—^Representatives Wm. M. Gurmont, '35, and John D. Yelland, '30. 
Western (Wash.)—^W. Jerome Kane, 

—John W. Courtney, '25; Peoria—James Kelly, '43; Afilwaufcee—Richard S. Bal­
liet, '35; St. Joseph Valley, John G. Far­
abaugh, '38. 


Deans Review Progress 
(Continued from Page 8) 

government being the servant of the 
people. We want our students to work 
towards great and desirable goals in 
gaining the enthusiasm, initiative, loyal­
ty, devotion of mind and hearts of the 
labor forces of America since we both 
know that we cannot legislate harmony 
into the hearts of men. 
Our job is to train leaders. To equip young men so that they have emancipa­tion from herd opinion. So that they have self-mastery, the capacity for self-criticism; suspended judgment and urbanity. In another manner of speak­ing, we aim towards turning our poten­tial managerial talent who possess a storehouse of facts; a mind trained to think straight; mental humility and a developed sense of the fitness of things which is normally called judgment. We are not interested in training subordin­ates—only leaders. 
Notre Dame's academic climate, to­gether with the good traditions and con­cepts of Christian education have enabled us to do a reasonably good job so far. 
I say reasonably good job because we never want smugness or complacency to replace our unshaken belief that tbere are bri^ter and more progfressive goals in store for our students and for the University, if we look for them. 
In an evolutionary sort of way, we have kept pace with the shifting, diang­ing .business .patterns that influence the practical content of our courses. ' We have been reasonably alert to framing our business courses and training oar students to the long range demands of business. 
I am grateful for your generosity in letting me come to you with this con­densed version of the philosophies and goals towards which we aspire in the College of Commerce. 
DEADLINE, CLASS AND CLUB NEWS 
The editon wouM be extremely grateful to all class and club secretaries if they wiU send copy for the September-October issue so that it may reach us by September 10. We are very appreciative of your fine re­sponse in the past regarding deadlines and particalarly for your fine cooperation con­cerning the pieparatMHi of this magaiinr. 

July-August, 1950 
South Bend Campaign Is Highly Successful 
The University of Notre Dame dis­covered on Friday night, May 19th that it has some real neighbors. The proposed $500.OCO objective of the Greater Notre Dame Campaign in South Bend was sur­passed by $1,012. Contributions totalling §501,012 in cash and pledges over the next three years were received. 
This neighborliness demonstrated by the residents of South Bend, Mishawaka and other communities near the univer­sity will advance the general program and help complete the financing of the New Science Building. 
In appreciation for what the citizens of the South Bend-Mishawaka Area were doing for Notre Dame, University em­ployees undertook a campaign of their own in which 929 employees contributed the gratifying sum of $18,926.95. 1,341 citizens of South Bend-Mishawaka con­tributed the remaining $482,085. 
Harold S. Vance, board chairman and president of the Studebaker Corporation, was general chairman of the Greater Notre Dams campaign. Mr. Vance, a non-alumnus, was assisted by Emest M. Morris, '06, and Bernard J. Voll, '17, as Honorary Chairman. The Executive Committee consisted of Joseph F. Dona­hue, '12, W. Robert Walton, L. 0. Gates, Paul Gilbert, Otto A. Pfalf, Robert L. Garvey and J. Arthur Haley, '26. John 
E. Mclntyre, '31, was in charge of the Advance Gifts Committee. 
Chairmen of the various divisions in­cluded G. A. Farabaugh, '04, Transpor­tation: Henry Lowenstine, Chain Stores, Theatres and Hotels; Joseph Barnett, Merchants; Albert McGann, '25, Special Prospects; Joseph Boland, '27, Govern­mental; R. Floyd Searer, '28 and Dr. Kenneth Olson, Professional; Earl E. Reeder, '14, Wholesalers and Jobbers; A. 
N. Hepler, Jr., Outlying Merchants; J. J. Crowley, Jr., '31, Small Industries; C. G. Harding, '25, Individual Donors; Karl G. King, Jr., '37, Restaurants, Motels and Hotels; Ralph S. Sollitt and Thomas L. Hickey, Sr., Real Estate and Contract­ors; David A. Nye, Auto Agencies; John 
A. Scott, '38, Speakers Bureau; and Ralph E. Jones, Publicity. 


Dr. Price Honored 
Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the de­partment of chemistry at the University, was honored in a science day celebration at his alma mater, Swarihmore College, Swarthmore, Pa. 
In a special convocation, honorary doctor of science degrees were presented to Dr. Price and to Dr. James B. Conant, president of Harvard University. 

NOTRE DAME LAWYERS, ATTENTION 
The Notre Dame Law Association has procured facilities and arranged a luncheon for those Notre Dams lawyers in attendance at the conven­tion of the American Bar Association to be held in Washington, D. C. September 17 to 22. The headquarters room is located in the Statler Hotel and will open on Sunday, September 17, and remain open for the rest of the v/cek. The luncheon will be held in the banquet room of the Carlton Hotel Wednesday noon, September 20. Prospects for a large turnout are excellent. Plan now to attend. Reservations or inquiries should be directed to the chairman, Mr. William B. Jones, Hamilton & Hamilton, Union Trust Building, Washington 5, D. C. 

Law Reviews Come Here 
Notre Dame has been selected as the site for the second conference of the Na­tional Association of Law Reviews in the. fall of 1951, it has been announced by Dr. Clarence Manion, Dean of the Col­lege of Law. 
Representatives of more than 59 law journals from all parts of the United States are expected to attend the con­ference. Addresses will be presented by prominent educators and jurists on mat­ters of current legal interest. A series of 
Dean Manion 

informal forum discussions also will be held on law review problems. 
Because of its selection as site for the conference, the Notre Dame College of Law will assume responsibility for di­rection of the Association until the con­ference. 
E. A. Steffen, Jr., editor of the Notre Dame Lawyer, has also been appointed the first national chairman of the associ­ation, which was organized last October to coordinate the efforts of law reviews throughout the country. Steffen, a native of Indianapolis, Ind., is a senior in the College of Law. 

ND Confers Degrees 
(Continued from Page 5) 

spiritual aspirations of the Christian 
soul are fulfilled, substituting diabolical 
travesties of those very organs. 
"Like a bodily cancer, this thing grows wildly in Europe and Asia and its cells are spread throughout the entire world. The very compactness of our world, its size shrinking in the face of technical advances makes the isolation of com­munism almost impossible. 
"Our world today is in a state of fear­ful crisis. Are we perhaps presumptuous to see in the unprecedented material strength, the genius for organization and the youthful spirit of America—a provi­dential preparation of certain qualities and institutions which are to become as necessary to the development of the Church as was Greek speculation or Ro­man law? 
"The destiny of the Church will not be fulfilled until all the wondrous grifts of all peoples; the mysticism of the East; the tremendous capacity of suffering of the Slav; the joyous heart of the Negro —all have been absorbed by her and in turn have helped her to express com­pletely the fullness of Christ. 
"Why, then, may we not say that the peculiar greatness of our own America has been providentially prepared to adorn the Church? That the very ra­pidity of the growth of the Church in America is a sign of this? Perhaps the hour is not far off. Perhaps this is the meaning of the crisis that rocks the world—that the eternal Church clothed in the vigor of our young land may bring salvation to the world." 

MISS BfoncAard Dies 
Miss Marie G. Blanchard, one of the few women ever to receive a degree from the University, died May 12 in Pittsburgh. She was 76. 
News of her death reached the Alum­nus only a few days too late to be in­cluded in the May-June Issue. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 



1930 Notre Dame Football Riister 
NAME  POS.  AGE  HT.  WT.  HOME TOWN  HIGH  SCHOOL  CLASS  
Alcssandrini,  James  Francis  C  19  5-11  198  Charleston, W. Va.  -.Cbarleston  Catb.  - Soph.  
Banicki, Frederick F. Bardash, Virgil Julian  T T  IB 19  5-10 6-0  190 210  Chicago, III. Gary, Ind.  -Leo —Horace Mann .  __ Jr. . Soph.  
•Barrett, William Carlin •Bartlctt, James J.  —. HB C  20 20  5-8 6-3  180 202  Chicago, III. u Cincinnati, Ohio  -Fenwick . -Elder  Jr. Jr.  
Benson, Robert Allen *Boji, Byron Allen .  E G  20 19  6-5 5-U  195 198  Omaha, Neb. ~.~. Chicago, III.  -Creighton Prep —Austin —  . Soph. — Jr.  
Buczkicwicz,  Edward  George  HB  19  6-0  182  Chicago,  III.  -Weber  . Soph.  
•Burns, Paul Eugene . Bush, John Lawrence Caprara, Joseph A. Carlin, Barry Carter, Daniel James Carter, Thomas Leslie „ Conlin, John William ••Cotter, Richard Adrian Cronin, William Vaughn . Czaja, Walter Casimer „. Daut, John Donald David, Joseph B. Dolmetscli, Robert Emcr>' Doud, Charles O'Reilly .-Dunlay, James F. Emcrick, Louis Edward -. Epstein, Frank Bertell Falkenstein, Elr>- George ^ Feigl, Charles Flood, David Michael Flynn, David Michael . „ •••Flynn, William James „. French, William Patrick , •Gander, Fidel John Gaudreau, William Lucicn ••Gay, William Theodore Gctscliow Lee Ernest ••Groom, Jerome Paul (Captain)•Hamby, James Harold •Helwig, John Frank . Higgins, William Patrick Hovey, William Arthur „ HumI, Donald Francis Jonardi, Raymond Johnson, Murray Ellis Johnston, Frank Anthony Kapish, Robert John Kelly, Robert James Kiotisis, Martin John Koch, David Anthony ._™_ Kohanowich, Albert John . •Landry, John Warren Marchand, Gerald Hucy •Mazur, John Edward •McKillip, William Leo Meschicvitz, Vincent Alexius , Modak, Daniel Murphy, Charles Harris Murphy, Thomas •Mutscheller, James Francis •Qstrowski, Chester Casmir O'Hara, John Roger O'Ncil, John Daniel Paolone, Ralph Norman Paulik, George John •Perry, Arthur R. •Pctitbon, John Ellis Seaman, Thomas Smith, Eugene Francis Spieler, William JosepliStroud, Clarke •Toneff, Robert Turco, Angelo Michael ••Wallner, Frederick Williams Weithman. James Carl Welch, Harrj-Whelan, Edward James . Wlielan, John DeLan — Whiteside, William A ••Williams, Robert Allen Wise, John Thomas Wolniak, Leonard A. Zambroski, Anthony John — Zancha, John D.   ....  __.._ G HB FB HB G HB E HB E T T HB E T T E G QB C HB C T E FB QB HB HB C C E G HB E E HB G E E G E E FB FB QB HB E T E T E E  HB FB HB HB G HB G HB G G T OB G T HB FB HB OB OB QB HB G T  20 20 20 19 19 23 18 •JO IS 21 19 19 20 18 18 20 18 19 21 21 19 23 19 20 10 oo 18 21 19 no 23 24 21 21 19 20 20 19 20 20 20 24 19 20 21 19 23 20 19 20 20 20 23 19 18 19 19 20 20 IB 19 20 09 22 20 19 18 19 21 20 19 19 20 20  6-2 6-0 6-0 5-11 6-1 5-11 6-1 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-1 5-10 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-2 5-8 5-10 6-1 5-10 6-3 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-1 5-11 6-0 6-3 6-1 6-2 5-11 5-10 6-1 6-2 6-2 5-8 6-0 6-2 5-11 6-2 6-1 6-1 5-8 6-1 5-10 6-4 6-1 6-1 6-1 6-1 6-1 5-9 6-0 6-0 5-10. 5-U 5-11 5-11 5-9 6-0 C-l 6-1 6-0 6-2 6-1 5-9 6-0 5-11 5-10 6-1 6-2 5-11 5-11 5-10  208 190 192 165 200 173 195 180 204 208 205 175 195 202 205 210 205 170 200 185 195 197 195 190 178 175 177 215 200 194 180 175 190 188 195 184 187 200 190 190 185 180 190 190 175 215 205 205 210 194 196 180 185 195 190 198 190 200 170 195 20O 235 175 212 195 165 190 180 172 185 185 175 196 195  Athens, Pa. Davenport, Iowa — Turtle Creek, Pa. _. Great Neck, N. Y. Chicago, III. Los Angeles, Calif. — Ann Arbor, Mich. — Austin, Minn. Larchmont, N. Y. .­Niagara Falls, N. Y. Hempstead, N. Y. _ New Orleans, La. —. Chicago, 111. Oxnard, CaliL Oakmont, Pa. Albany, N. Y. Chicago, III. Naperville, 111. Chicago, III. —: Pittsburgh, Pa. __ . Gary, Ind. Gary, Ind. : Murphysboro, 111. ­Chicago, III. Baltimore, Md. — Chicago, III. Kenilworth, III. — Dcs Moines, Iowa _ Caruthcrsville, Mo. Los Angeles, Calif. Chicago, III. Lake Placid, N. Y. Chicago, III. Pittsburgh, Pa. Gary, Ind. : Chicago, 111. —^ Barberton, Ohio . Duluth, Minn. 1. Lakewood, Ohio. Wayzata, Minn. Hempstead, N. Y. _ Rochester, N. Y. Baton Rouge, La. — Pl>Tnouth, Pa. McCook, Neb. _ Chicago, 111. Campbell, Ohio Eureka, CaliL _ Chicago, III. —; Beaver Falls, Pa. — Chicago, 111. ~ Lcwiston, N. Y. — Aurora, III. _ New Castle, Pa. ' Chicago, III. Davenport, Iowa' ­New Orleans, La. Canton, Ohio LaCrossc, Wis. Denver, Colo. . Casper, Wyo. — -Barberton, Ohio _ Omaha, Neb. Greenfield, Mass. _ Bucyrus, Ohio Akron, Ohio Savannah, Ga. Miami, Fla-Philadelphia, Pa. _ Baltimore, Md. ~— Cleveland, Ohio _ Chicago, III. Erie, Pa. Chicago, III.  -Athens _^ '•— Jr. —St. Ambrose —. __ Jr. -Turtle Creek ­
__ Jr. -Great Neck — . Soph. -St . George — -Soph. -Cathedral Sr. -St. Thomas __ . Soph. -St. Augustine _. Sr. -lona Prep . Soph. -St. Mary's . Soph. -Hempstead __ Jr. -St. Stanislaus . . Soph, -Leo Jr. -Villanova (Ojai, Calif.) _ Soph. -Oakmont Soph. -Schuyler : Soph. -Senn. Soph. -Naperville — — Soph. -St . George _ Sr. -Langley .. J'­
-Horace Mann -Horace Mann -Murphysboro -Mt . Caimel —Loyola -Tilden Tech •New Trier (Winnetka) -Dowling . -Caruthersville -Mt . Cannel -Fenwick Soph. -Cath. Latin (Cleveland) .Ir. -Wayzata __ __Jr . -Hempstead . . Soph. —.\qtiiiias Inst. _ _ Sr. -Catholic . Soph. -Plymouth' ~— _ Jr. -McCook Sr. -Mt . Carmel ­
. Soph. -Memorial __Jr . -Eureka . Soph. -S t George — . Sonh. -Beaver Falls _ — Jr. -Weber Jr. -St . Mary's . — Jr. -East . — Jr. -NCTV Castle _ . Soph. -S t George — . Soph. -St. Ambrose . Jr. -.lesuit _ — Jr. -Lincoln . Soph. - Aquinas _ Sr. -Holy Family .Soph. -CasDcr . . Sooh. -Barberton — -Ir. -Central Sooh. -Greenfield — Sr. —Bucynis Soph. -Kenmore Soph. -Benedictine .-Soph. -Miami — Soph. -Tj&iHe Sr. -l.ovola Sr. -Cath. Latin ._ __ Soph. -Mortran Park . Sonh. -Catholic Jr. -St. George — Jr.  
• DENOTES  MONOGR.\MS  WON.  

July-August, 1950 

Named fo Council 
Two of the nation's leading figures in science and industry have accepted mem­bership on the Advisory Council for Sci­ence and Engineering at the University, it was announced by the Eev. John J, Cavanaugh, c.s.c, president. 
New members of the Notre Dame council are Charles S. Beardsley, Chair­man of the Board of Miles Laboratories, Inc., Elkhart, Ind., and Daniel M. Heek­in. President of the Heekin Can Com­pany, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Mr. Beardsley, a former attorney, joined the staff of the Miles Laborato­ries in 1926. He served as vice-president in charge of advertising and sales from 1931 to 1944 and was president from 1944 to 1947. He assumed his present duties as chairman of the board of Miles Laboratories in 1947. 
Mr. Beardsley has been president of the American Foundation for Pharma­ceutical Education since 1948. He form­erly served as president of the Proprie­tary Association of America. 
Mr. Heekin received a mechanical en­gineering degree from Purdue Univer­sity in 1910. He has been associated with the Heekin Can Company, Cincin­nati, since his graduation and now serves the company as president. 
Bradley Dewey, president of the Dew­ey and Almy Chemical Company, Cam­bridge, Mass., is Chairman of the Ad­visory Council for Science and Engineer­ing at Notre Dame. Consisting of twenty-three leading scientists and industrialists of the United States, the Council ad­vises Notre Dame regarding its scienti­fic and engineering research program. 

Concert Moss Dedicated 
A Concert Mass dedicated to the Uni­versity was presented for the first time on Ascension Thursday in Sacred Heart Church on campus. 

The new musical arrangement, in G Minor for solo quartet, mixed chorus, and organ, is the work of Carl A. Ma­thes, an instructor in music at the Uni­versity. Mr. Mathes, a native Hungarian who has been blind since early childhood, accompanied the choir on the organ. 
After the performance a manuscript of the Grand Mass was presented by Mr. Mathes to the Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University. The manuscript is bound in blue and decorat­ed with gold leaf—the official colors of the University. 
More than three months of rehearsal went into preparation for the perform­ance. Three minor works by Mathes—an organ prelude, an Ave Maria, and a Salve Regina—also were included in the program. The conductor was the Rev. AVilliam J. McAuliffe, C.S.C, director of the Moreau Seminar Choir. 
Trained in the Koyal Academy of Mu­sic in Budapest, Mr. Mathes has per­formed his own works and other musical programs in the major cities of Hun­gary, Yugoslavia, Roumania, Austria and Italy. His new Mass is a modem polyphonic composition in the style of Anton Bruckner. 



Baldlnger Gets Award 
Dr. Lawrence H, Baldinger, Dean of the College of Science at the University, has been named the 1950 recipient of the Notre Dame Lay Faculty Award for distinguished service during the 1949-50 schoolyear. 
The award, which carries a §500 purse, is made annually by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Last year's award went to Professor William D. Rollison, of the College of Law at Notre Dame. 

Dr. Baldinger, as Dean of the College of Science, heads the staff of scientists who are conducting research in the fields of chemistry, physics and mathematics at Notre Dame. Among the research projects at Notre Dame are those in­volving cancer, the Rh factor in human blood, radiation chemistry, electronics and atomic energy. 
The Notre Dame dean, who has been a member of the faculty since 1933, was head of the Department of Pharmacy at the University until 1939 when the department was absorbed in the Depart­ment of Chemistry. Dr. Baldinger was named Assistant Dean of the College of Science in 1941, was made Acting Dean in 1942, and has been Dean of the Col­lege since 1943. 

Another Cincinnati Scholarship 
Joseph D. Crowley, 17 year old Middle­town Senior High School student, is the recipient of a four-year Scholarship to the University, it was announced by Robert C. Burke, President of the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati, donors of the Scholarship. 
Crowley, son of Thomas F. Crowley, a metal finisher in the Frigidaire Plant, Dayton, Ohio, and Mrs. Thomas F. Crowley, is a First Honor student, the County Winner in the Prince of Peace Oratorical Contest in 1948, placed fourth in the State finals of the same contest in 1949, and is District tennis champion. 
Crowley was selected from many nomi­nees of Public, Private and Parochial High Schools in the Greater Cincinnati Area, by the Scholarship Committee, con­sisting of Albert D. Castellini, Chair­man, J. Walter Nienaber and Joseph S. Morrissey, Alumni members, and the Honorable Edward T. Dixon and Mr. Louis Richter, non-alumnus members. 
The award, first in a series to be offered by the Cincinnati Club, is based on financial need, scholastic attainment, moral character, activities and person­ality of the applicant. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Medicinal Cheat Meeting 
Three prominent foreign scientists were featured speakers during the sec­ond National Medicinal Chemistry Sym­posium held June 15, 16 and 17 at the University. 
Appearing on the Notre Dame sympo­sium program was Dr. Arthur StoU, a member of the board of directors of the Sandoz Pharmaceutical Company in Switzerland; Dr. F. Berheim, Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Cambridge, England; and Dr. H. R. Ing, Professor of Pharmacology at the Uni­versity of Oxford, England. 
Dr. Stoll, who is internationally known for his researches on the natural­ly occurring drugs that act on the heart, spoke at the final session of the Notre Dame Symposium the morning of June 17, which treated the "Newer Develop­ments in Drugs Used for Heart Disease." Dr. Stoll currently is on a lecture tour of the United States and Mexico. 
Dr. Berheim and Dr. Ing took part in the panel held in the evening of June 
16. Both spoke on the subject of the means by which drugs act in the body. 
The Notre Dame Symposium was sponsored by the Division of Medicinal Chemistrp of the American Chemical So­ciety. Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, Pro­fessor of Chemistry at Notre Dame and Chairman of the Medicinal Chemistry Division of ACS, was general chairman of the 1950 Symposium. 
SO-feor Club Organized 
Louis C. M. Reed, '00, New York 
City, said in acknowledging the sym­
bolic award of the 50-Year Club Medals 
at the Alumni Banquet, "I have done 
nonthing unusual in my life except per­
sist." Only seventy graduates before 
1900, and including that Class, enjoy 
this distinction. 
The Alumni Association has always had a deep respect for the Golden Ju­bilarians at Reunion time. In the na­ture of Notre Dame's own growth, and in the nature of man, this annual group has been so small as to be depressing, whereas .in spirit and in the admiration of fellow-alumni it should be exhilar­ating. 
To recognize the abiding friendship, and to escape from the mathematics of membership, the Alumni Board this year sanctioned the formation of the "50­Year Club," comprising all Notre Dams men out of school 50 years or more. And this group will be invited back an­nually, with the actual 50-Year Class being initiated as freshmen in the Club at the Reunion. An outstandingly beautiful medal marks membership. 
In this first year, we have evidence 
July-August, 1950 
of the merit of the Club. The group was large enough to provide fellowship with the common denominator of Notre Dame life at the turn of the century. And each man back found someone like himself, young in heart and mind, and —to an amazing degree—^young in ideas and in physical prowess. 
All other Classes derived real inspira­tion from the presence of the 50-Year Club members. The meeting' of the group in the Junes ahead should in­crease in enjoyment as they will in­crease in numbers of eligible members. 
Alumni director John Q. Adams of 
New York, and Louis F. Buckley, 1928 
Class Secretary will be two of the prin­
cipal speakers at a workshop sponsored 
by the Catholic Business Education As­
sociation, August 7 to 11 at the Univer­
sity. 
Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, archbishop 
of Cincinnati will open the workshop 
with an address "The Need for Social 
Order." Mr. Adams will present a paper 
on "Employers' Associations" and Mr. 
Buckley will preside as chairman at the 
Aug. 10 session and present a talk on 
"Approaches and Objectives." 


Notre Dame Books 

i I 
SOCIOLOGY FOR A DEMOCRATIC SOCETY, by Rev. Raymond W. Mur­ray, C.s.c. Appleton-Century-Crofts: $3.00. 
Expectation that the growing chal­lenge of Communism in the United States may lead many non-Catholic col­leges to abandon their traditional "nat­uralistic" philosophy in sociology courses is reflected in "Sociology for a Demo­cratic Society," a new college textbook written by the Rev. Raymond W. Mur­ray, C.S.C., Head of the Department of Sociology at the University. 
In the new book, published by the Appleton-Century-Crofts Company of New York City, Father Murray claims that the naturalistic approach to sociol­ogy is "undemocratic." 
Naturalistic philosophy is based upon the belief that "no one can be certain of any suprasensible truth," according to Father Murray, and it thereby denies the validity of both the philosophical and religious principles upon which "our government was founded." The Notre Dame author points out that this "un­democratic" approach is said to have re­sulted from the attempts of sociologists "to copy blindly the methods of the phys­ical sciences." Sociology as taught in Catholic colleges has never accepted this philosophy. Father Murray writes. 
"Sociology For a Democratic Society" shows that our form of government "in­volves much more than a system of checks and balances, free play of con­flicting opinions, and majority determi­nation." The book points out that de­mocracy "as reflected in our comer-stone, the Declaration of Independence, recognizes the natural rights of the gov­erned .. . a principle which has its source in the Jewish-Christian faith." Both Communism and naturalism deny this principle, according to the author. 
The new textbook presents sociology within the framework of our basic Judaeo-Christian tradition. While it leaves room for denominational differ­ences, it is equated to a common denom­inator made up of the basic or core-values underlying America's democratic tradition.—R.W.D. 
Contributions by Classes 
1900 and Before— 
$1,395.00 given by 14 class members. 

1901—$125.00 given by 6 class members. 
1902—5195.00 given by 6 class members. 
1903—$265.00 given by 10 class members. 
1901—$650.00 given by 9 class members. 
1905—$315.00 given by 5 class members. 
1906—$227,451.25 given by 9 class members. 
1907—$322.50 given by 8 class members. 
1908—$285.00 given by 7 class members. 
1909—$2,766.00 given by 9 class members. 
1910—$1,262.50 given by 8 class members. 
1911—$5.58.00 given by 20 class members. 
1912—$2,652.50 given by II class members. 
1913—$510.00 given by 12 class members. 
1914—$801.00 given by 26 class members. » 
1915—$1,212.50 given by 21 class members. 
1916—$I,I87..50 given by 17 class members. 
1917—$1,640.00 given by 17 class members. 
1918—$183.50 given by 21 class members. 
1919—$302.50 given by 14 class members. 
1920—$1,037.00 given by 21 class members. 
1921—$1,396.50 given by 26 class members. 
1922—$1,635.20 given by 46 class members. 
1923—$l,977.Z'l given by 52 class members. 
1924—$2,137.50 given by 46 class members. 
1925—$5,487.00 given by 165 class members. 
1926—$2,485.50 given by 73 class members. 
1927—$2,423.35 given by 86 class members. 
1928—$2,640 JO given by 86 class members. 
1929—$5,360.00 given by 77 class members. 
1930—$t,79SJ0 given by 91 class members. 
1931—$2,426.00 given by 125 class members 
1932—$2,166.88 given by 99 class members. 
1933—$2,602.50 given by 120 class members. 
1934—$2,318.25 given by 111 class members. 
1935—$2,464.50 given by 117 class mcraben. 
1936—$1,439JO given by 96 class members. 
1937—$1,592.50 given by 99 class members. 
1938—$2,396.00 given by 128 class members. 
I93»-$2,344.00 given by 129 class members. 
1910—$2,695.75 given by 145 class members. 
1941—$2,549.75 given by 152 class members. 
1942—$1,622.50 given by 145 class members. 
1913—$2,116.00 given by 146 class members. 
1914—$1,423.65 given by 112 class members, 
1945—$684.00 given by 67 class members. 
1946—$546.00 given by 66 class members. 
1947—$1,680.00 given by 177 class members. 
194S—$2,179.00 given by 253 class members. 
194»-$35,733.70 given by 352 class members. 
1950—$1,393.50 given by 485 class members. 



Alumni Clubs 
Twenty-one Alimini Clubs have contributed $20,082.25 so far in 1950 
Boston 

Two club members have recently been appainted to important and responsible posts in the adminis­trative family of John Hyncs, mayor of Boston. Harry J. Kccfc, '40, is Building Commissioner. John Moran, '30, whose selection as City Purcliasing Agent was reported last year, has been cliosen to perfomi additional duties as Director of Civilian Defense for Boston. 
On June 27lh we arranged the Annual Get-together for the purpose of welcoming members of iliis year's graduating class, and it was very ivcll attended. jAn^ong those present and boasting a 1950 diploma were Jo= Clanc>-, Philip McCartin, Joscpj Benoit, and Robert Saycrs. New member of the Board of Directors is Joe Clanc>-, appointed by president Jack DufTo' to represent his class. Philip McCartin is in electrical sales training with Cutler-Hammer Co. of Milwaukee, Wis., and at this time connected with their Boston office. 
During the business meeting, the dates of our retreat at Stonehill College, Xorlheaston. Mass., were confirmed by Committee Chairman Joe Gari­land, Jr., *27, as July 14-16. The retreat will last from Friday evening through Sunday afternoon. 
The date and time of the club's family outing have been definitely set as August 17, 2 p. m., and it will take place at Riverside Recreation Grounds, near Norumbcga Park, Aubumdale, Mass. Good golf, swimming, boating and picnic facilities are 3%-ailabIe, and the feature of the day will be a Softball game between the Old-Timers and Youngs­ters. An interesting question was raised in connec­tion with this contest: where do you properly draw the line between alumni Old-Timers and alumni Youngsters? Joe Clancj-, '50, with something re­sembling a sneer, expressed the view that all those alumni from '48 back should be claiscd as Old-Timers. Needless to say, all present did not con­cur. The issue was not finally resolved, but it is interesting to note that the game will begin at a cool 6 p. m.—undoubtedly so that those *"Old-Timers" can enjoy a long nap and a tall, health­ful glass of hot water before tottering into the fray. Mike Manzo, *45, is general chairman of the outing, assisted by Arthur Brady, '48, and Jo= CIanc>-, '50. Arrangements for the gct-togcthcr were given much lime and excellently handled by Dick Hcrlihy, '48. 
John Moran, '30, has been appointed chairman of the Placement Committee, and will tr>- to help job-seeking alumni to help themselves. 
A Prep School Committee, whose work will con­sist of interesting young men from this area in Notre Dame, will be headed by Jack Saund-rs, as­sisted by Bill Thompson, '47. 


Buffalo 
On June 17, the Buffalo Alumni Club made it possible for almost 100 Notre Dame men in wes­tern New York to get together for the first time since their campus days. A highly successful stag outing \%-as held in Mayor's Park, North Tonawan­da, for all Notre Dame men within a 100-mile ra­dius of Buffalo. 
The idea for sucli a party grew out of a sug­gestion by Joe R^-an, *39, last winter. He wrote to many Notre Dame men outside of Buffalo at that time to see if many would be interested. It was vcr>- much approved and plans were started. 
Invitations were extended to many cities, large and small, as far as Rochester and Erie, Pa.; m?n from Dunkirk, Medina, Batavia, Middlcport, Aldcn, East Aurora and many others. 
Dick Thoen and Ted Flanigan assumed the re­^onsibility of coordinating committees. Their big­gest problem was estimating the number expected because all contact had to be made by long dis­tance and by mail. 
Joe Battaglla handled the food; Tony Brick, the park arrangements; Tom Kelly, the publicity, and Jim Fitzgerald, the prizes. Jim had something for e\er>'one whether he earned it or not. 
John Nowak was chiefly responsible for many 
14 

'"aching backs" the day after the oating, since, he was chief organizer of a full afternoon of games of all kinds. The most recent graduates defeated the old timers at Softball, but Charli= Banna and Hank Bums made a good showing for the older grads by getting into the finals in the egg-throwing contest. The Classes of '49 and '50 took off with the 50 yard dashes and football-throwing contest: while Doc Bums, '15, and Frank Sweeney, '16, stood high at a horseshoe-throwing contest. 
Some of the out-of-iowners who were unable to return home the same day were accommodated at a downtown hotel. Tlicir >vivcs were entertained by the Alum-Wives Club of Buffalo. 
Besides getting together with old friends, this outing had another purpose—to introduce the new 1950 graduates to the alumni in Buffalo and to iielp them get acquainted so that they might be­come established .^ac k Shine, Secretarj-. 


Central New York 
^^'^f*l tl'c coming of summer, usually a period of inactivity, the Central New York Club springs into action. 
At a meeting of the entire club, E. C. Schonlau and Rc\'. Frank J. Harrison were elected as di­rectors for a three year period in accordance with the Alumni Association polic\- of rotating director­ships. Tlic Board of Directors met several dax-s later and elected John H. Tcrr\- as president for '50-'5!. Elected to succeed Terr\- as secretary-treasurer was Robert E. Mc-^ulifTe. Rev. Joseph B. Toome>* was elected as vice-president. Daniel A. Kellcy, retiring prcxy, was then elected to the Board of Directors, following the resignation of Tcrr>'. Both meetings were luncheon meetings held in Syracuse at Leon­ard's Restaurant. 
Following their election, the new officers met and planned a tentative schedule for the ensuing year. 
July 2flth is the date set for the annual Golf-Dinner Party to be field this year at the Tuscarora Countr>' Club. Secret score, putting contest, and other prizes will be awarded. Dinner will be ser\"ed at 7 p. m. Robert E. McAuIiffe and James Manning arc co-chairmen of the event. 
A "Student Send-Off" is in the offing for August 17th—that's a Thursday. It is hoped that Johnny Lujack and George Connors, both of the Chicago Bears, who will lie in town for a professional foot­ball game, will be present. Place will be announced later, but the party will feature a buffet dinner, beer, salt potatoes, and a baseball game between the students versus the alumni. Paul W. "Bill** Kellcy will chairman the alumni and Edward **Ted" Kelly, will head the student group. Students enter­ing Notre Dame this fall, present students, their par-Notrc Dame tins fall, present students, their par­ents and the alumni arc all invited. 
From July 20th to October 11th, Notre Dame men will be busy selling rafHc tickets on the N.D.­Michigan State game. The game is a natural for S>Tacusans and a large excursion is now being plan­ned to South Bend for the game. The long range raffle actirity will be culminated at the raffle draw­ing 10 days before the game—that's October llth. Co-chairmen of the raffle and the raflle drawing party are Paul Lonergan and Phil Kelley, of the Almnns. Ed Murphy, secrctar>- of the Student Club, is assisting with student support. 
Notre Dame men will meet again on the Sun­day nearest the feast of the Immaculate Conception and this year the date is December 10th to par­ticipate in the Communion Breakfast Sunday for Notre Dame Clubs. John E. McAuliffe and WllJam Dw^er arc co-cliainncn and plans will be announced 


Krause in Enemy Territory 
Athletic Director Ed Krause, 34, at right with George Munger, head footbaU coach at V* ^ '^' ^ w ""°«=" ^ Amcisen (center), secretary of the Pennsylvania Alunmi Club of Chicago. Moosc was an invited guest at the Chicago. CIuVs luncheon. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

No Introduction Needed 
The Millers —all five of them. Walter, '20; Don, '25; Harry, '10; Ray, '14, and Jerry, '25. 
were ushers. Ricliard Kclley, Notre Dame student come September, also ushered for his brotlier. later. Chib Director Rev. Frank J. Harriscn will arrange the participation. 
•^Football Highlights of *50" will be shown at Habcrlc's Taproom on a date to be set later dur­ing the month of February, 1951. The review of the year's football activity is always received with en­thusiasm. Hcnr>* M. *'Bud** Kirk, Jr., is chairman of :his affair. 
The club program for the year will be completed with Universal Notre Dame Night on April 2nd. 1951. Negotiations are underway for a prominent speaker to be with us on this occasion. TIic dinner will he held at the University Club. Guests will be invited and the affair will again begin at 7 p. m. Daniel .A. Kclley and E. C. Schonlau arc co-cltair­nicn of UND Night activities. 
In addition to the regular club activities set forth above, there will be a GoU-Dinner Party sponsored by the Catholic Intcr-Collcgiatc Alumni Association on September 12th, 1950, at the Bellc­vue Country Club. John H. Terry, club president, is treasurer of the Intcr-CoUegiale Association. 
In the Additions-iO'the-family Department — the McAuUfFe brothers have both become new fathers. Bab*s new son is Kevin and Jack's new addition is Joseph. Joseph is named for an ardent Subway Alum—^Joseph Lonergan. Both have fnnvarded ap­plications for admissFon—Class of 1971. 
Botli the retiring prcxy and the prex>*-elect are on the recent marriage list. John H. Terry w*as wed to Catherine Jean Phelan on April I5th in St. John tlic Evangelist CImrch, Syracuse. After a honeymoon to Florida, the couple arc residing at 213 Rich St., Syracuse. Daniel A. KcHey was best man for Jack Terry. Oa June 21st in St. John the E\'angclist Church, Daniel A. Kclley was married to Mildred Rita Hogan. Attcr a Canadian honeymoon, they will reside at 100 Valerie Circle, Fayettevillc, a Syra­cuse suburb. Paul W- Kellcy, Jr. and Phil Kelley 
Cleveland 
A very successful Stag party was held on Satur­day, June 17, at Chuck Rohr*s ('30) farm in Chardon, Ohio. Nearly 100 Notre Dame men and their sons were present. The affair was ably 
July-August, 1950 
**chairmaned" by Pat Cacny '28, and Fred Naegele '43. Unusual as it was inspiiational was the way the picnic started. The entire group was led in the Rosary by Hon. Pres. Thomas F. Bym* '28 at the lovely Grotto which Chuck has at the farm, j Then the Old Timers, wi;h Pat Canny and Tom Byrne as umpires in favor of the O.T.'s, and with six inficlders and eight outfielders — lost to the Youngsters (fellows now at ND) by the close score of 11-9. The youngsters were captained by Dick Hiltnski. Others pitched horse shoes, lodc horse­back on the noble steeds that R: hr keeps, or went on a hayridc tour of the beautiful country place. 
Chuck was then host at a fiine picnic dinner, with plenty to cat and drink for all. Chuck an­nounced he would be happy to have the gang back next year. Lord willing. Every one agreed that Chuck Rohr is a perfect hcst, a gracious one, and all will return in '51. 
The ND Golf party is all set for July 27 under the co-chairmanship of Larry Krai '31, la;t year's winner, and Dec Al O'Brien, '33, runner-up in '49. John Chapla '23 has been able to secure his home Club — the beautiful Elgria Country Club, for the affair, and is arranging for prizes. John usually has enough prizes so even the daffy duffers come home with something. Everybody welcome — also guests. But make reservations, please. 
A football year always means a busy time for your Club, the officers, and the committees. It also means a greater opportunity for each individual member to enjoy the activities planned by your Chib. Outlined below is up-to-date information, subject to the usual "change without notice." 
The Guiding Hand: Omce Home President Jack Elder '30 CH 1-3750 SW 1-4359 Vice-President VIctcr J. Gul>-assy '42 CH 1-2700 ext. 12 PO l-743u Secretary 
F. J. McCarthy '33 AC 1-6585 LA 1-1556 

Treasurer .. ; Jack Doyle '44 MA 1-6800 'B O 2-5496 
Board of Governors: Above officers plus Bob .Stack '41, Tom Conley '31, Bob Dowd '41, Ward 
Lealiy '26 and BOI Griffy '43. 
Honorary President: Tbomas F. Byise '28. Pubh'c Relations: Joseph E. ibniatty '34—^Any ND News call him MA 1-5900. Food for Thought: When you say that. Smile! Yes, we've started another lunclieon - group. But without frills or fur' belows. If you're downtown any Thursday drop in at Rohr's, 1111 Chester Avenue for lunch and you'U find 15*20 ND men at the large table in the rear. Order from the menu," pay your own check—very informal. 
Coming Summer Activities: Golf Party—Mid-July—Date and place to be an­nounced. 
Family Picnic—Early August, Gilmour of course. Summer Dance—Late August. PS: New arrivals or any address changes should 
be registered at the Club's permanent office. The 
•Arcade. Phone CH 1-2636. 
Columbus 
The last meeting of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Columbus, Ohio, was c:alled to order on May 18, 1950. As is the usual practice the monthly meet­ings will be dispensed with during the summer montlis. However plans for the golf party at the Columbus Country Club were discussed, and also plans for the annual fbh fry that is held during the latter part of the summer. 
Both of these events will be held during the sum­mer months and the club has high hopes that both events will meet with success as they have in the past. 
Doc Tom Hui^cs was appointed chairman of the summer activities committee. 
Condolence is extended to v-pres. Joe Ryan on the recent death of his sister, Mrs. Mary Daugherty of Columbus. 


Dayton 
The Dayton Chapter of the Notre Dame .\Ium­
ni Association held a dinner meeting on Tuesday evening, June 13, at the Miami Valley Golf Club. Thirty members were present and ten present stu­dents and graduates of Notre " Dame. This ''meet­ing was to wlcome the latter boys into the Dayton club. 
Plans were discussed for chancing off four tickets to the home football games of Notre Dame. This is for promoting a scholarship fund. Discaission was also brought up for. having, a dance this coming December. 
Andy Anson, president, spoke almut his past trip to Notre Dame for the Presidents' meeting. The business meeting was adjourned and the rest of the evening was spent socially. 

Fox River Valley (Wis.l 
A family picnic, with ice cream and pop and games and prizes for the children, will be held July 30 at Afenominee Park, Oshkosh, it was an­nounced by Robert Bernard, Neenah, president of the Fox River Valley Notre Dame club. 
Plans for the picnic were laid at a meeting of the committee, which indudcs Charles Fiss, Osh­kosh; Richard Stack, Appleton, and Jcaeph Fie­wrgcr, Neenah. Each family will bring its own picnic basket, but swapping will be encouraged. Parents and brothers and sisters of members will be invited. 

Grand Rapids 
Our monthly meeting was held on Tuesday, June 13, in the Club Rooms of the Knights of Columbus Hall in Grand Rapids. The Club unani­mously adopted President Dunn's suggestion that one meeting a year be held in the City of Muskcgcn. hoping that this meeting would encourage the Alumni in Muskegon to attend the meetings bcht la Grand Rapids each month. The only alumnus from Muskegon who attends our meeting Is Leo Linck, one of our Vice Presidents. November is the month set for that meeting. 
President Ed Dunn ^pointed Joe Moore as 

, Chairman of a ^mmittee .to-revamp^our constitu­tion and by-laws with Joe Moore as Chairman, with Joe Dccb, Fred Oast, Robert B. Limey, ^m McDcnnott and Tom Rcadt on his committee. 
laad, RDT Keadi, Jr., Joe Gillespie, Bill Mooney 
and Fred Mahaffey. While the ballots were being 
counted the movie "Highlights of the 1949 Grid 
And Only the Photographer Got Wet 
You don't like our Indiana weather? Wait a minute. Father Vincent Brennan, holding umbrella. Alumni President Leo Ward and Conroy Scoggins in the Lyons arch on a vfeit to the class of 1923. 
The annual summer picnic will be held at the ings of the Club will be held on the last Thursday summer home of John Frawdzik at Spring Lake of each month and the next meeting will be held Michigan, on July 15. Charles Duffy'was ap­on-July 27 at .6:00.p.-m. at Betty's Restaurant. 
pointed Chairman with a committee consisting of Fred Jones and DicJc Sadow^ki were appointed Fred Cast, Joe Moore, George ^Vciss and Bob cliairmcn of the Notre Dame annual picnic to be WfKidhouse. 
held in August. Jocko Conlon was appointed a com­mittee of one to handle plane and ticket arrange­ments for the 1950 Notre Dame-Tulane game I. I-
Greater Miami 
Probst was appointed program chairman for the July meeting. 
Faris N. Cowart was elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Greater Miami to­day at the annual business meeting held at Betty's Restaurant. Cowart is, also, a graduate of Miami 
Indianapolis 
High Scliool. Other officers elected are Henry Keel» A mar\'clous turnout greeted dean James E. Mc­first \-ice-prcsident; KfichacI Zorovitch, second vice-Carthy as we of the Notre Dame Club of Indian­president; Jules Bercik, secretar>*-trcasurcr. Fred A. 
apolis celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night. "Big Jones, Jr., immediate past-president, was elected to Mac" did a wonderful job as the pnncipal speaker the Board of Directors for a three year term. Other and his travel back through the years at Notre directors are Walter D. Rowlands, John Kottc, Dame brought down the house. Bi*! Holland is George Brautigam, I. I. Probst and Jules Bercik. 
to be congratulated on the manner in which he lined up the evening's activities at the Hillcrcst Fred Jones reported that the possibility of the Golf and Country Club. The "Smorgasborg'* as University of Notre Dame scheduling the Univer­prepared by the club was superb and we!l received sit>- of Miami was discussed during his attendance 
by all. 

at the annual Notre Dame Council meeting, June S, 9 and 10, of all Notre Dame alumni club presi­Harry Scott scr\ed as the toa-tmastcr and intro­dents throughout tlic nation. It was indicated, duced from the rostrum Archbishop Paul C. S:hulte, Jones reported, that no possibility existed of this Brother Regis, C.S.C., principal of Cathedral Hirjh same being scheduled for the '51 or '52 season. school. Father John Dever, C.S.C., chaplain at the As a result of this report Cowart appointed Hugh Cathedral High school. Father John MtShane and 
J. Mc&faniga] as chairman of a committee, con­two recent athletic luminaries, George Conner and sisting of Gcoi^ A. Brautigam and Walter D. Leo Barnhorst. The Mayor of Indianapolis Al Rowlands, to undertake tlie necessary negotiations, Fceney, who as recipient of last year's "Man of sponsored by the local alumni club, leading to a the Year" award presented the 1950 scroll to definite contract for a game between the two uni­Trueman C. Rembusch for his stand on the cor­versities in 1953 or 1954. Action on the part of rective measures to be adopted in curbing immor­this committee will include the marshalling of all ality in the movie industry. Al also presented a persons interested in this game in the Miami area. "special award" to P. C. Rally, president of Reil'.y Tar and Chemical Co., and member and former 
Cowart requests that all Notre Dame alumni in chairman of the University Board of Lay Trustees. the Greater Miami area, Hollyivood, Fort I*audcr­dalc and West Palm Beach and other surrounding The highlight of the evening was the election areas, who are not registered with the local club, of officers for the 1950-51 year. The new officers to do so as soon as possible that a director)- may are Han-ey Foster, president; Ed Cunningham, be prepared for Southeastern Flonda. Friends of \'ice-prcsident; Jim Canon, trca:urer; John Carr, the University are cordially invited to send in their secretary and Joe Beck and Bill O'Connor, new names. All mail may be directed to Cowart, 1926 members of the Board. The retiring officers and South West 8th St., Miami, Fla. AU future meet-members of the board are Nick Connor, Bill H(^­
Season" were shou-n. Newr president Foster has already lined up a beer bust for June 15 at Bill Holland's farm. For the next issue of the Alumnus we'll have all of the details of the Annua] summer Golf Tournament. 
The June Commencement brought the following graduates into the Club: Sam J. Herrington, Frank 
J. Hurley, George L. Landis, Maurice F, McGrath, Frank M. Maley, John R. O'Connor, Hugh £. Reyaolds, Jr., Harry R. Roscngarten, Harold E. Sullivan, Elmer A. Steffen, James G. Welch and Robert L. Wedisler. . . . Congratulations fellows, we are counting on your attendance at our \*arious club functions. 
The annual Summer Golf Tournament is in the capable hands of John A. Welch, and is being scheduled for the first or second week of August. . . . Bob Mojiiahan, Bill Snyder and Ed McNa­maia are on the committee with Johnny. .. . At the last report the place and tarifT have not been decided. . . . According to reports from up north it is safe to say that the University will be well represented again this year. 
Wc feel that it is about time that we put out a new Club Directory, as the old one (1946) is getting rather obsolete. If everything goes accord­ing to plans it should be out by the end of August. 
John H. BlackwcU, another of our faithful club members, passed away in May . . . we all will miss seeing Harold at the various club functions. . . . Jim Carson has sent a Mass card to the family. 
La Crosse, Wisconsin 
At the ^ri l 27, 1950, meeting of the LaCrosse Chapter the newly elected officers of the Club are as follou-s: President, David F. Hyde, '40, 230 S. 20th Ct.; Vice-President, WUliam F. D\-orak '43, 1602 Mississippi St.; Secretary-Treasurer, John W. Haekuer, Jr., '37, 412 Caledonia St. 
On Sunday, &fay 14, 1950, the Club had the pleasure of entertaining the University of Notre Dame basdiall traveling squad at a Communion breakfast. The Mass was celebrated at St. Mary's Church in LaCrosse by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Robert B. CaudoD, D.D. • • • Augie. Gramis, the., toastmastcr at ' the breakfast introduced Coach '*Jake*' Kline and Capt. Martin of the squad to the gathering. Msgr. Caudon gave an interesting talk on Notre Dame and its great work in Education, Science and Athletics. 
Michigan City 
Francis G. Fcdder, who retired as president last year, and Dr. C. J. Vojak were elected as mem­bers of the Board of Directors for 1950. 
Dr. C. W. Kolanczyk lives at 1311 Washington St., and maintains an office in the Lido Theatre Bldg. Yours truly lives at 121 N. Calumet Ave., and my office is located at 416 Warren Bldg. 
The Club will hold its third annual Irish Greens Golf Party on Thursday, July 27th, 1950 at the Long Beach Country CIid>. Tee off time begins at 
9:00 a. m. and continues all day. The $5.00 ticket includes the greens fee, all refreshments and a 16 ounce Grade A barbecued steak to be 5er\'ed fol­lowing the golf matches. The Long Beach swim­ming pool will be available after 5:00 p. m. and each ticket holder will be eligible for a door award. Over ¥500.00 in prizes will be awarded for the golf tourney. 
Our . Club sponsored two successful events this Spring. We held a dinner-dance at the Standard Club, Sheridan Beach, on April 22nd, in obser\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Our first Corpor­ate Communion and Breakfast was held at 7:30 a. m. 
The Communion Mass was held at 7:30 a. m. at Sacred Heart Church with the Rev. John J. Cava­naiq^, C.S.C., president of the University of No­tre Dame as celebrant. The Communion Breakfast was served at 9:00 a. in. at the K. of C. Hall with over 300 men in attendance. Father Cavimaugh was the principa] speaker and his fine address was car­ried over the Michigan City radio station WIMS. Our Club received many sq)preciative comments on Father Cavanaugh's splendid talk. 
Our Club meets once a month on the third Mon­day of each month. Our next meeting, however. 

wUI be a special one to be held on July 10th, in order to make final arrangements for the Irish Greens Party. Will keep you advised of further developments and special club activities. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
At the May meeting, held in Kingston, N. Y., the following men were elected Directors: John Kuhn and John Dnungould (3 years); John Davis and Robert Hu ^ (2 years); and Robert Decgan and Daniel Cassidy (1 year). Standing Committees were also formed at the May gathering. The film "The University of Notre Dame" was shown. 
On June 18th the club held its annual outing at Camp Wahkonda, Mount Marion, N. Y. Club members and their families were invited to attend. Francis J. Sanfilippo, club president, gave a report covering the recent Club Presidents' Council at the University. 
He brought back quite a few ideas from the panel discussions that should help the club activities in the coming year. 
Milwoukee 
On Universal Notre Dame Night, April 17, 1950, the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee inaugurated its new ofHccrs. The former President ^Villtam C. Malancy is succeeded by President Richard S. Bal-Itet; the former Vice President Mark A. Pfaller, Jr., by William C. Dinecn; the former secretary Rich­ard S. Ballict by Robert L. Rhode, and the former treasurer Robert G. Sanford by John J. Linnehan. 
Robert Er^in, business manager of LOBUND, spoke of the activities of LOBUND and its germ-free life experiments. 
The Notre Dame "Man of the Year" award was tendered to Mr. Fred C- Miller for his contribu­tion by civil and moral leadership in promoting the interests of Notre Dame and its various ac­tivities. 
Frank Leahy spoke to the club and encoun^cd the club by hinting that the team "showed prom­ise" for the oncoming season, and Johnny Lujack followed with words of praise for Coach Leahy. 
A buffet dinner was served after a very engag­ing cocktail party which was followed by the usual games of skill. The party was a tremendous success. 
On May, 3 the club met at the Knights of Co­lumbus clubrooms in downtown Milwaukee. The speaker for that evening was Mr. Grimm of Mil­waukee Better Business Bureau who told the club of the modem gyp and how he operates. The President discussed plans for a summer dance and golf jamboree. An informal meeting followed over free beer and everyone had a good time. 
The Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee extends m cordial invitation- to all Notre Dame men to b* present at its summer functions. (The dates are not as yet set but will be available upon writing the secretary or any of the officers.) 
Golf jamboree is set for July 27, 1950, at the Port Washington Country Club. 
Northern California 
The Notre Dame alumni of Northern California 
held its annual Fathers and Sons night at the 
banquet room of the Marine Memorial Club in 
San Francisco on Thursday evening, June 22. 
Honored guests for the evening were Kevin 
O'Shea and John R. Forde who graduated from 
Notre Dame this June. John was in the land of 
cheese, ^Visconsin, but he was well remembered. 
Special recognition went to Joe Kuhaikh, foot-hall coach at University of San Francisco; Joe Ruetz, football coach of St. Mary's University; Thomas Foley, basketball coach at St. Mary's Uni­versity, and Bud Lynn, assistant football coach at the University of San Francisco. 
Sitting in between the two independents of the west coast was Dennis Heenan, athletic director at Santa Clara, who acted as the evening's toastmaster. 
It was a refreshing and certainly most inspiring scene to see these successful members of the west coast highly competitive independent league express­ing their profound appreciations to Notre Dame for the training they received and paying tribute to their fellow competitive Notre Dame men. 
Special recognition for achievement went to Don Miller for being admitted to the California State Bar Assn. Don has opened his own law firm in Bur­lingame and has taken on Bob Tar\'er, present sec­retary* of the Club, as his associate. 
During the meal the roving eye was able to spot such Notre Dame figures as I^iul Gushing, Slip Afadigan, Fred Peak and Scrapiron YcMmg. 
President Bill Daley, just back from a trip to the campus, enlightened the club members on current happenings under the Dome. 
Preliminary plans were made on the club's special excursion to the ND-USC game this fall. More will come on this later. 
Miami Looks at LOBUND 
Professor Robert F. Ervin, administrative head of LOBUND, explaining a technical po'nt to members of the Miami Club. The percentage of men looking at something else — in tins case the camera — is about par for the course, as compared with classroom doodlers, Ervm clainB. (Elmore photo) 
July-August, 1950 
New Jersey 
Joseph Abbott of Paterson was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey at a meeting in the Military Park Hotel, Newark, on June 12. Other officers elected were: Ridonl Bevingtoa, of East Orange, vice president; Joseph 
M. Byxse, lU, of Newark, secretary, and Edward Na^e , of Orange, treasurer. J. Norbert Gtboa, of Summit, and Joha Blanda of Passaic were elected to three-year terms on the board of direc­tors. 
Outgoing president Tbomai B. Hogan of Maple-wood thanked the club members for their support of activities during the year. Alumni cooperation made possible the Jersey Club's gift of a thousand dollars to the Notre Dame Foundation this year. 
That thousand dollar gift is in a sense symbolic 
of the club's remarkable rejuvenation. When 
Gcrvase Frodidi of Newark, became president two 
years ^o , the Jersey Alumni organization was vir­
tually a corpse. There was no money and little 
spirit. Some even suggested disbanding the club. 
Froelich kicked the corpse till it showed signs of 
life. Under his direction, the Jersey Alumni began 
to function ^ain. 
Hogan picked up where Froelich left off and today the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey is on the way to becoming one of the most important and influential alumni groups in the country. 
New Orleans 
At the last meeting Tom McMahon '29 was installed as President of the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans. Kari Kadiewski *29 retired because he was transferred from the city. 
The Club is busy with plans for the Student trip this fall, to the Tulane-Notre Dame game. 
Mr. Fred D^i y who is probably the most active honorary alumnus in the United States, Is the unofficial chairman for the big week-end. He is Genera] Manager of Sugar Bowl and we think very capable in ventures of this kind. He gave us a report on the plans for Student trq»: housing the students, a big pep-rally and various parties. 
After the meeting we saw the movies o( the S.M.U.-Notre Dame game of last fall, narrated by the very busy Bfr. Digby. 
New York City 
The task of reporting the activities of an alumni group such as the ND Club of New York is both an easy and a difficult one — easy because of the tremendous amount of activity conducted — and difficult to know where to give the most credit to a gang of fellows comprising the best anywhere. The above h not written in self-sanctification of deeds done — but in heartfelt aqipreciation for those unable to publicly express their thoughts. 
In sequence — since last reporting—the Club's formal Annual Meeting took form at the Biltmore on January 11 with the night being more or less dedicated to the Missions. Father Jcc EngHtfc '37 brought in a film entitled "The Miracle of the Blue Cloud Country." Acclaimed by Hollywood, this 20>minute on-the-scene documentary film by the Maryknoll Fathers tells the true and amazing story of a veteran missioner in the Blue Cloud Country of China where no priest has ever pene­trated before and of how he caused over 12,000 fronversions. To the Alumni club looking for at­tractions to their meetings contact the nearest 
Maryknoll priest for a talk and the booking of this film. 
Our February meeting at the Biltmore — (the present monthly meeting place tmtil we take over the Empire State Building or build our own) brought about an extremely well versed speaker in former Naval Intelligence Commander ^^nce Hart­
•ett '37 who afforded the 200 Alumni present a detailed expose of the communist conspiracy to ccmtrol our radio and television today. Until we complete setting up the mechanism for the proposed action to help combat the exposed pracitces we will take a rain check on reporting further detvls. 
Herb Gio^io was the Chwman conducting the Annual retreat to Mount Manresa on Staten Island on Feb. 17 and the promise of this activity to expand was gratifying. With Herb at the head of such activity this prcmiise shouldn't be too far off: 
Genial Jack Hojt — a fellow wlio in our estima­tion could put over and make a tlircc-Iegged horse race pay, in February, devoted his effort; to the NYU-ND basketball luncheon and game (w; should have stayed at the lunclieon). Tcots Shor's on Feb. 27 had a jammed house of 400 to listen to Father Hesburgh, Herb Jones, Moose Krausc, Hugh Dc\-orc and Capt. Ke\-in O'Shea from tlie Univcr­si y and Police Commissioner O'Brien, his d?puty Pat Mcchan, Chief Magistrate Murtagh and Col. Beglcy of the UN among others from New York. Mr, Ed Scheidt, a North Carolina grad, but a good friend of ND, and head of the local FBI office was on hand at the luncheon for a few words. 
Club President Commissioner Jim Shcils was in­strumental in affording the consent of a good friend of Notre Dame, U. S. At:Imc\- Irving Sa\-pol, to address us at the March meeting — and our thanks to Jim for his cfToris. A gifted speaker, Mr. Sa>-pol, clearly explained the struc­tural and organizational functions of his office, the FBI and numerous law enforcing agencies in addi­tion to various highlights cl the important and celebrated trials of Alger Hiss, Judy Coplon and the infamous 11 Commies — all such case; being under the jurisdiction cf Mr. Sa>"pors office. 
April breezed in with a flock of activity, high­lighted by the annual \-isit of the Glee Club on .April U at Town Hall and then a reception at the Biltmorc following. In John MacCauIcy th; Club has found a Chairman without a peer when it comes to handling publicity, which is John's line any^vay, but he outdid himself on the han­dling of the publicity and arrangements for the concert. Between 500 and 600 people were on hand to Iiear an excellent program from Prof-Pedtkc and his 40 undergrads. New Ycrk took the Glee Club to heart with a recital on Ed Sul li\-an*s "Toast of the Town'* teIc\Tsion show and the formal concert a few nights later — so much so that the Club has had dozens of requests for appearances on the annual swing Ea::t. 
Bill Cronin chairmancd the UND NIGHT ac­tivities and a right fine job Bill did. The Hon. Joseph Kcenan, former Assistant Attorney General and U.S. Prosecutor of the Japanese War Crim­inal trials spoke to a group cf 200 alumni and guests. Mr. Kcenan tiaccd the historical events leading to the Russian-German-Jap ::nese pacts and treaties and proridcd the audience with enough in­sight to these infamous meetings to leave no doubt even to the most skeptical that the war leaders came to tlicir just end at the \-arious trials. In addition to Mr. Keenan's talk the Club paid spe­cial tribute to one of its members, }vir. Louis Reed of the Class of 1900, who this year celebrates the 50th Anniversar>- of his graduation from ND. Mr. Reed's acceptance of a signifying scroll and subse­quent talk was greatly enjoyed by those assembled. 
Bob Hamilton was named the Notre Dame man of tlie Year from the Club and a more deserx-ing fellow is not living in New Ycrk right now — a small indication what kind of a Chairman Bob makes Is indicated jn the figures just released by the Trust Fund of the Club whicli Bob heads — since 1935 Bob*s committee has effected 14 $1000 Scholarlisips to worthy boys frcm the East; gifts to the University from the Trust Fund have amounted to $7,086 and contributions to worthy charities in and around New York totalled $3,623 
—
 and they still have a balance on hand of $1000 

—
 and completely separate from the Club^s regular funds. Any other Clubs in the cDuntr>' matcliing that arc urged to write us and we'll doff our hats to them, but right now Bob gets our vote. 


The May meeting of the Club was given over to Preisdents Night, another "first" of the New York club and it was our pleasure again to listen to Fatlier Cavanaugh report on the Univcrist>-, its activities and plans lor the future. A gathering of 250 alumni and guests thrilled to Father's talk and greeting and went away increased in their feelings that the aims and gcals of the University are in capable and courageous hands. Our only regret is that distance makes more frequent xisits by Fa her Cavanaugli impossible. 
Philadelphia 
On Saturday, June 17, 125 couples had a tlior­oughly enjoyable evening at the Bala Countrv- Club. This was our second annual Spring Party and wc 
pr^ A-firiiini-' ,^^t.;j^„ ii.j^ 3 MUST for our social 
calendar. Cliff Prodehl was especially responsible 

Two Generations at the Reunion 
Mr. Alfred du Perier, '00, of Beaumont, Texas, Jim Ferstel, '48, and his father, William 
Ferstel, '00, of Chicago. 
for a lot of the fun at our party. He awarded the novelties and prizes which was a highlight of the evening. The large number of students and recent graduates played a big part in making the party a success. 
Bad Dudle>' mad: a very encouraging report on the recent Club Presidents' Council at the Univer­sity. 
Jack Dempsey is chairman of the football raffle for 1950. Jack has already started things moving and assures us that the prizes this year will be right up there along with those of the past. 
Den Younj is in charge of the new club direc­tor>'. Questionnaires are being sent all our mem­bers with the request they be filled in and returned promptly. Don is going to keep right after this director\- until it is in final form and put on the presses. 
Although no club meetings are scheduled until September the Board of Governors and several com­mittees are not idling their engines so wc expect a full sclicdulc for the fall and winter seasons. 
Pittsburgh 
Tlic first event of the new club year Avas the golf party and dinner held Thursday, June 13, at the Churcliill Countr>- Club. Even though the at­tendance was disappointing, fifteen or twenty mem­bers had a good day for golf, and anotlier fifteen or txventy c:amc out later for the dinner. It was a fine cliicken dinner too, with al! the trimmings. and was enjoyed by all. The Pittsburgh Alumni were glad to have Father Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., in from Notre Dame, to play golf and spend the evening. Several students and recent graduates attended also, among tbem Lee and Tom Kirby and Jim Beamcr. 
The best goK scores were turned in by Jack Sheedy and Father Sherdy; several golf prizes were distributed. After the dinner, cxccllent_ sport movies were shown, covering football highlights of the 1949 season, a short on golf, and a short on boxing. 
Don Fitzpatrick deserves special thanks for mak­ing most of the arrangements for this party, and he can feel sure that all attending were well satis­fied. Among' those present, not already mentioned, were John Brily, John Rcardon, Gene Coj'ne and several guests, Bob Hagan, Judge Hugh Boyle, Leo Burfay from Cleveland, John Hickc>', Lou Homing, Bob Chambcrlin, Emmet Griffin, Larr>* Smith, Jack Mimtcvcrde, Bill O'Brien, Charley O'Brien, Leo 0*DcnnelI, Jr., and many others. 
Jack Montc\-erdc, Club President, spent the week of June 5 at Notre Dame attending the reunion and the club presidents' council. He will report on his trip at a later meeting when future plans of the club year will be discussed. 
St. Joseph Valley (Ind.) 
(I wish to use this channel to tliank per­sonally the members of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley for the wrist watch given to me at the Golf Party in recognition of my Silver Jubilee as Alumni Secretary. I can only repeat that the success of my work rests entirely on the voluntary cooperation of alumni. Tliis response in the St. Joseph Val­ley has not only been personally most gratify­ing but has contributed the example from which much of our national program derives. I only hope you arc as happy in our mutual cfTorts for Notre Dame as you have made me. —^Jim Armstrong.) 
South Jersey 
A new alumni group, the Notre Dame Club of South Jersey, has recently been formed. Va! Deale '39, club president, tells us that all Notre Dame men residing in Southern New Jersey arc cordially invited to attend the meetings, held the third Thursday of each month at the K of C home, 630 Pcnn Street, Camden. 

Other club officers are Joe Dalsey, '32, vice president; Jack Murphy '49, secretary; Lou O'Brien "'47; treasurer, and the Rc\'. Joseph M. Hayden, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Chaplain. A constitution is being drawn up by a committee under Bill McCarmick '47, and plans are also under way lor a Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner. At the January meeting, Jack Reilly '33, and Nfatt Sicdlccki '49 were named to a committee to hold a drawing with the grand award consisting of an all expenses paid trip to ND-NYU basketball game in New York. 
The club, a brainchild of Father Hayden, Jce Dalsey, and Dan D. Halpin '31, has been in ex­istence since December, and to date has about twenty-five members. A membership drive has been started to sign up some of the estimated hundr.'d Notre Dame Alumni in the area. 
Toledo 
F. J. (Jack) Solon, Jr., has been elected Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, according to John Malone, outgoing president and now* Chairman of the Club's Board of Directors. As­sisting Solon during the coming year will be Don Hummtr, Vice-President; Bab Kopf, Secretary, and Bud Malone, Treasurer. 
In addition to Malone, the new Board includes Pete Fluge, Harry Deizcr, Jr., Bob Schramm, Frank Lockart, Art Sudcr and Ray Tillman. 
Immediate Club plans call for a Monte Carlo party early in July with Harry Dctzer s:r\'ing a? Chairman. Tentative arrangement; have also been made to hold a golf tournament late in July. 
More than 900 attended the Notre Dame GIcc Club Concert sponsored by tlic Club and held in the Toledo Museum of Art's beautiful Perist^ic last April. The audience, as well as the town's music critics, were enthusiastic in their praise of the group's performance. 
Tommy Sexton, honorary member of the Toledo alumni group, attended the concrct in his wheel chair. Tommy, who has been a Notre Dame fan since he was old enough to recognize a football, returned from Warm Springs, Ga., shortly before the concert. Tommy has made several trips to the foundation in an effort to throw off the effects of polio. 
Assisting Bob Kopf in making arrangements for the Glee Club's concert were: Joe Hillebrand, pub­licity; Bill Syringe arrangements; Jim Malonea ^^­nounccmcnts; Bob Schramm, tickets, and George Korhumel, programs. 
Tri-Cities 
Here's the news from the Tri-Citics: 
The Tri-Cities Alumni Club held the annual fam­ily basket picnic at the Springbrook Country Club, DeWitt, Iowa, on Saturday, June 15. More than 100 persons were there to make this aff:^r the usual success. Frank McGuire, Picnic Chairman, assisted by Jerry Arnold, Walter Dray, Jim Doyle, and Ralph Ehr handled the arrangements. 
Various sports events took place throughout the day. The highight in the sporting field was a baseball thriller, with the "Wildcats" led by *Moon* Mullins ekeing out a narrow victory over George Vandcr Vcnnet's "Polecats." Jim Skelley carried off the day's horseshoe honors, followed closely by Raph Cor>-n. 
Tentative plans arc being made by the Club to hold a football rally on November 17, the eve of the Notre Dame-Iowa game. Final plans will be announced later. 
The Notre Dame wives are still maintaining a full social schedule by meeting on the last Wednes­day of each month for lunch and cards. The May meeting, w-ith Mrs. Jerr>* Arnold and Mrs. Larry Mullins as hostesses, was held at the Blackhawk Hotel, Davenport. The Davenport Country Club was the gathering place for the June affair with Mrs. Richard Swift and Mrs. Ralph Ehr doing the honors. 
Tulsa 
Immediately upon his election in March, the new club president, Loyd Worlcy '37, pitched into his new job with vigor. An cnicrtainmsnt committee was selected and they have already made tentative 
To Ihe Secretary —It's a Gift 
Don Miller, president of the 1925 class, turning over to Jim Armstrong the Studebaker Commander the 1925 class gave him as a tribute to the 25 years he has spent helping make the Alumni Association what it is (written by the managing editor). 
Juty-August, 1950 
arrangements for the annual Christmas Dance. A chairman for the dance %vill be appointed in the . near future. ;•:./' 
On May 17, Coach Frank Leahy '30, was a visitor •­in Tulsa and was guest of honor at a barbecue at Southern Hills Country Club which was given by Jtie A. LaFortune '16. The members of the club who were present heard Coach Leahy ex­press his usual pessimistic outlook for the t:oming football season. Members of the Tulsa University coadiing staif were also guests at the barbecue and Beraic ^Vitucki '34, associate coach at T.U., says that they are going to field a "fair ball club" this year — shades of Frank Leahy! 
A very enjoyable picnic took place ]klay 24 at the Tulsa Country Club. Joe A. Moran '30, was in charge of this affair and provided us with swell food, refreshments and entertainment. We had several visitors from surrounding towns, and were particularly pleased to have with us Francis Wal­lace '23, sports editor of Collier's Magazine and author of the book "Notre Dame Story." He has been visiting in town and was the guest of BUI Sherry '21." 
Washington, D. C. 
The annual Spring Dance of the Notre Dame Club of Washington was held at the Carlton Hotel on the evening of June 6th. Chairman for the affair was Jack Anderson, '31. As is the custom, students returning for the summer vacation period were in­vited and attended in gratifying numbers. &fany of the local alumni were on hand to make it a thor­oughly enjoyable evening. 
The Club's Retreat was held at Holy Cross Col­lege, Washington, D. C , on June 16, 17 and 18. Father Patrick Duffy, C.S.C, was the Retreat Mas­ter and his down*to-carth discourses made all of us who attended feel that we had been enlightened on many things spiritual and generally straightened out on matters on which we may have grown lax. John Kenkely '33, was chairman of the Retreat Committee. 
Among those of the Washington Club on the campus for Reunion Weekend were: Bill Tobin, Lou Rally, Charles Guner, Bob Dtxcn, Pat Gorman, Tom Flynn and BUI Jones. In addition to his re­union activities, club president Tom Flynn also at­tended the Presidents' Council meeting. 
Tom McKevitt, '32, and Mrs. Dorothy McKe^att (nee Dugan, St. Mary's, '33) became the parents of a baby daughter on June 16th. Mrs. McKevitt has three brothers. 
J. R. (Pat) Gonnan, '40, was elected national vice-president of the Junior Chamber of Commerce at their Chicago convention this month. 
The engagement of Bob Schellenberg, '48, to Miss Kathleen Kelley has been announced. Miss Kelley is the sister of Regis Kelley, '36­
Younqstewn 
Frands J. Hopkins, *41, was elected president of the Youngstown Notre' Dame Club at the annual dinner, held at the Colonial House. 
Hopkins succeeds Clarence T. "Pete" Sheefaan, '40, who has been president since IWI. John R. Hagaa *34, 1233 Elm street, Youngstown 4, was elected vice president and George Kelley '28, 47 Pinehurst drive, Youngstown 5, was reelected sccre­tar>'-treasurcr. Albert Evans, of Sharon, Thomas Kerrigan and Shcchan were elected new trustees of thf; club. 
Charles B. Cushwa, Jr., chairman of the Founda­tion campaign, told of the progress of the drive so far, and urged the alumni and former students to support it. 
The principal speaker was Chief ot Police Edward 
J. Allen, Jr., who spoke on Our Lady of Fatlma and Communism. Chief Allen said that the "peace plan proposed by the Blessed Virgin at Fatima is the only one I believe in." The Communists, he said, are using Christ's own weapons to fight His church, by portraying themselves as friends of the down­trodden. He urged greater devotion to the Rosary. 
The club paid tribute to Appeals Court Judge Jolin J. Buckley, its first president, who died last. January. . -­
19 

Athletic Trainer Hugh Bums, '39, at the Annual Alumni Banquet where he distributed 
Another look at the 1923 Class Dinner, held in tl the prizes for the Alumni Golf Tournament. Shirtsleeves were practically 
The Old 
More Club Presidents: {I to r) Bud Dudley, Philadelphia; Ed Sporl, Baltimore; 
Frank Hochreiter getting a Gruen 
Mr. Ward again; Bill Daly, Northern California, and Ed Simonich, Siouxland. 
watch at the '33 reunion. 

1920 was represented, too. Sherwood Dixon and cronies at LaSalle Hotel. 
1920 again. Same hotel, different people. 
.V .'. M ,.-1 ''•'>•'. 
T-V. ^-^ ^m­
im 

r?&fe­
rn 
"A 
^ 
^ 
?2t»a-r-ii5cKa3i?s)p;»e&5ias¥'i 

in the Faculty Dining Hall at the University The President's dinner for the Silver Anniversary class. John Hurley, Bill Merriman, cally a "must" in the Indiana heat. Father Cavanaugh and Don Miller. 
Crowd 
1 "v 
Father Cavanaugh and Leo Ward 
Lou Berardi, Los Angeles, Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong, Alumni President Leo Ward and Tom talking shop. Hogan, New Jersey, pausing for a breather during the Club Presidents' Council. 
Father Cavanaugh with 1920 men. Father Pat Haggerty was there, too. Part of the '40 reunion. Simonich '39 (far right) came along for the rid< 
Contributions from Classes total $343,131.93 
Alumni Classes 
The 50-Year Club 
The mid-ccntur>' marks the formation of one of the ver>- few really exi:!u3ivc Xotre Danie organi­zations—the 50-ycar club. 
Membership requirements are not too rigid, how­ever; anyone who has been graduated for 50 years can get in. 
An award befitting the dignity of such a position was granted this year to 69 alumni. Annually, as alumni rcacli the 50-year level, the awards will be repeated. 
The presentation Is a medallion of rose gold, with the name and graduating year of the alum­nus on the reverse. The obverse side is pictured below. 
Following are comments from some alumni who received the medal, and tlieir own phrases write a much better story of what it means to them. 
From ^Mlliam A. Walsh: (all letters sent to the .Alumni Secretary", not to the managing editor) 
**To use an old-fashioned and yet sincere expres­sion, it is difhcult for me to find words to express my appreciation for the beautiful 50-ycar club medal. The memories whicli this medal brings back tu me are among the dearest of my life. The old days of Father Morrissey, Father Cavanaugh, Father Bums, Father 111 and my old dear friend Father Sleiner carr>* undying memories to me, and the friendships which I made with many of the fellows in ray days in the old school have never been sup­planted by the friends of after >icars. 
**I have received a number of medals in public and civic life and as much as I clierish them, my 50-vear club medal will be he most cherished of all." 
From Eustace Cullinan, Sr.: 
''It is always a pleasure to hear from you, but particularly when your letter is accompanied by a gold medal. The medal arrived with the letter, and I agree with you that it is beautiful. I suppose it is a merit to have lived for 55 years after graduation and still be going strong, but the only way I know of staying alive is by growing old. Tliank you." 
From Father Thomas J. Crumley, C.S.C. (St. JohnVHickey Memorial Hospital, Anderson, Ind.): 
"Hearty thanks for the medal of the Golden Years Club. You didn't exaggerate when you said it IS 'very beautiful.' I don't know whicli is more attractive, the design or the artistic execution of it. 
"The medal is indeed an appropriate 5>*mbol of 
the affectionate esteem in which Alma Mater holds 
her somewhat annuated sons—Vd rather coin a 
word than use the detestable 'superannuated'." 
From Gene Melady: 
**I cannot tell you how pleased I was to receive 
your fine letter stating that you were forwarding 
a medal commemorating my membership in the 
newly formed fifty-year club of the University. 
"I don't presume there arc many who will regis­
ter for the number of years I have. It is now 61 
years since I left Notre Dame, but in all those 
years I have kept in touch pretty %vell with the 
University. I might add that the happiest days of 
my life were spent at Notre Dame, and I want to 
extend to you and all the faculty my sincere good 
wishes." 
From Hugh Mitchell: "Fifty Years! It will soon be 65 years since I entered Notre Dame, and it is already 55 years since my graduation with the class of 1895, after four years college work under sucli men as Afartin McCue, Maurice Egan, Charles Neill, Father T. E. Walsh, Father James Bums, Father John Zahm— all time greats of the Notre Dame faculty. And Brother Alexander, as fine a friend as a Notre Dame boy could have. It is memories of these and of others which arc stimulated by this beautiful gift, for whicli please accept my sinccrest thanks." 
From Peter Ktmtz: "The medal arrived the other day and the Alum­ni Association is to be congratulated on its design. It is not only beautiful, but ver>- appropriate. The Golden Dome stands out and that has always been the symbol of Notre Dame." 
79TS 
After 35 years—It was a memorable weekend and any attempt to describe it for our friends and class­mates who were not present is sure to prove in­adequate. 
The informal dinner at the College Inn of the La-Sallc w*as a delight, with the men of the class renew­ing old associations and bringing one another up to date regarding children, grandchildren and the other news so interesting after the passage of years. 
Bob Roach presided and no formal program was followed-
However \vc must record Al Kuhle*s and Joe B^Tnes's eloquent tributes to beloved members of the class who no longer cran respond to the roll call. Walter Clemens, \v-hD is always welcomed to the class although the years he received his two degrees just preceded and followed our class spoke briefly on a protect to record stories of old Notre Dame in an ALUMNUS 
column, and received a hearty response. 
Saturday noon at the same place we had the great honor to present Kn\ Matthew Walsh, C.S.G., former president of the University who delighted the class with over an hour of his en­tertaining stories. Rc\'. Matthr^- Schumacker, C.S.C., came for a \Tsit before the luncheon and renewed old acquaintances. L. B. Kecslar received an o\"a­tion when he suggested that wc not wait five years for another reunion but make it ever>- year. Dr. John Culligan sent his regrets. He had to attend a graduation ceremony of his son. 
Emmet Lenihan, who came with his wife and daughter, from Seattle, Washington, was awarded a copy of "Hooks and Slices," a hilarious car­toon book on golfing by James Igoe, Jr., '32 He made the longest journe>- to be present at the reunion. . 
One could mention each classmate several times if any attempt were made to recount the pleasant and rewarding human experiences that go to make up such a weekend. It passed only too quickly but will linger long. in memory. We had expected many who could not be present but this disappointment was tempered hy the presence of many we had not expected to see. Our thanks to the University for true Notre Dame hospitality and to Jim Arm­strong and Jolm Bums whose team work and cfH­ciency were evident in all the arrangements. 
Voor Class Secretary: James Sanford, 509 Cherry St., Winnelka, III. 
1922 
Danny Coughlin of AVaseca, Minn., accompanied a group of Holy Year pilgrims from Winona, Minn., on an airplane trip to Europe. In addition to their x-isits to Vatic:an City and Rome, the travelers went to Lourdes, Fatima, Paris, etc., and Danny de­tached himself from the group to visit relatives in Ireland. 
A postcard showing an airplane view of Abbey of Gcthsemani (home of author of "Seven Storey Mountain") was received from Frank Blocmcr who in "our book" is a Kentucky general instead of a Kentucky colonel. Frank was attending the fifth annual retreat of the N.D. Club of Kentucky. 
ThiKc strange noises you hear may be from the buttons popping off the vest of Charlie Werschbuhl who became a grandfather on April 30th. Charlie's daughter, Mrs. Marguerite Drake, is the proud mother of baby Donald Charles. We extend our congratulations to the parents, Don and Marguerite, and to the grandparents Werschbuhls—Charlie and Pat. By the vvay, he is very sorry to learn of Bill Castellini's death which news he received on the ver>* day he was leaving his native Portland, Ore., for a fishing trip to Southern California and Guay­mas, Mexico. Details are lacking as to size of catch. Charlie reports he has heard from Harold McKee recently, also, from Jerry and Marion Jones of Dixon, III. 
Congratulations to M. Joseph Ticmcy of the 
neighboring class of 1921 and to &frs. Tiemcy on 
the recent ordination of a son to Holy Priesthood. 
Father Tiemey said his first Mass at Blessed Sacra­
ment Church, Rochester, N. Y., on June llth. 
Your Class Secretary: Gerald A. Ashe, 39 Cam­
bridge St., Rochester 7, N. Y. 
I92S 
The grandest 25th reunion the Notre Dame Alumni have experienced is now a beautiful memory. 
A weekend that surpassed even the optimistic hopes and plans that Armstrong, Don Afillcr and yours truly had dreamed about in every way — at­tendance, the seeing and being with all the '25ers, the spiritual lift and last but not least the coopera­tive contributions whenever and wherever they were asked for. Only you . . . the class of '23 could have done it and for this we, the officers and your secretary, thank you. W know our records will be broken, no doubt by John Ryan's class of '26, but we also know that we set a pace that will help lead Notre Dame Reunions to "Heavenly levels." 
For those who couldn't make it . . . wc are sorry! Some classmate who did, might in some w*ay convey the feeling and enthusiasm experienced when you sec over a hundred and fifty classmates whom you haven't seen for a quarter of a cen ur>'. They can't quite tell how Jim Amutrong looked when he was told by Don Miller that his classmates had gnxn him a Super Deluxe Commander Stude­baker, fully equipped. All he could say was, "Thanks to you men of '25, and modestly added, "I only fell into the nearest rut after graduation and stayed there."* 

As we all know —^"that rut" is (with the aid of Art Haley and Father John Cavanaugfa) producing some fabulous returns for the Notre Dame Founda­tion thb past year. 
Some might remember the pride and dispatch that DOB Miller, our president, conducted the affairs of the weekend . . . especially when he presented to Father Jckm Cavanaugh the nearly $6000 (and it will amount to that) for the John Wcibel Fund . . . also his and the President's gracious words of praise 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

when yours truly was presented wi.h a beautiful Hamilton wristwatch, band and all with the in­scription, a treasure I will keep as long as I live. 
Father J<^ui*s hospitality and praise of our class was unsurpassed. The Kfass, said by Father McA\-oy, for those who passed on, was met with devout response. (Wc have some extra holy cards with our deceased members on it for those who would care to drop me a line.) The humor and stories of Carboy and Jack Shcchan and Judge Casey of Batavia, New York, will be hard to explain to those who were not there. 
The class picture will record attendance, and Ray Cunningham's movies shown under the Arch of Lyons, taken at our graduation and every five-year reunion thereafter, is something one had hoped for in reunions but never happened 'til you of *25 did it. These arc some of the thoughts I had when you fellows gave me the watch but I was taken by surprise and all I could say was **TIianks fellows!** 
Father Ray N=rris and saintly Brother MacHe, who has taken care of him, thanked the fellows for their visits to the infirmary and autographs of the class. Father Norris has been in bed for eleven years but still has that optimism and high spirit of the class of '25 — we are all proud of him. 
I won't attempt to thank you fellows who worked so hard with Don Miller, Bill Cemey (that South Bend Superman), Clarence Harding, Father McAvoy, Jack Sheehan, Ray Cunningham and Jc^n TraynoFj as well as the fellows who worked behind the scenes. If I went beyond this I know I'd miss some names and you know It took the whole class and Father John Ca\'anaugh and the other Univer­sity ofGcials, Dave Ford, the manager of the Dining Halls, and John Bums of the Alumnus to make our 25th reunion the success it was. Letters from grateful members of the class are beginning to come in already .. . let them come. 
Your Class has become of age now — we have, in addition to our regular elected officers and class secretary, three "Vecps" Dan O'Neil for the East, Ray Cumiingham for the Midwest, Charlie De La Vergne for the "deep South," and Barney MacNab for the West, and Hank \Vurzer for Treasurer. Your sccrctar>''s getting old and needs this help! 
To the Class of '25: For 25 years I have frankly, if modestly, maintained that the Class of 1925 was the greatest Class In the history- of the Univer­sity, In anticipation of our Silver Jubilee I confidently predicted that new precedents would be set, new heights reached. And on the strength of this long-range defense of our colors, I was instrumental in asking you to create a lovely precedent In the &femorIal Room for Johnny Weibel. 
Well, all of your response was gratifying. I was sitting at tha Class Dinner peacefully minding your business, beaming with a sort of paternal pride in your outstanding vindi­cation of all my most extrax'agant claims. 
Then it happened. Usually I recover my power of speech quickly. If lost. But I am still at a loss to express to you the personal thrill that leaves that overworked word in­adequate. The car is wonderful (It came in time to give son Phil a ride on the day before he left for the Holy Cross Brothers novitiate). And it has served as a real tonic for Marion (Mrs.) who had been in bed for a month's rest cure. 
But to me the payoff of your generous and completely surprising tribute was the accompanying book of greetings. There are always friends and enthusiasts in testimonial gifts, but usually there are twisted arms. Any fears I may have had in this instance were happily dissipated when I read the treasured greetings from you. Those do not come from twisted arms. 
"Thanks" — from Marlon, from Jack. Dick, Phil, Grcgor>- and Douglas, who feel more kindly now toward fatherless nights and weekends during the years—is most un­satisfactory. May I simply say that we do thank you, and if the car is an appreciation of the job done between 1925 and 1950, I hope that the job done between 1950 and 1975 will express an appreciation of the car. 
JIM ARMSTRONG 

July-August, 1950 
Let's fool Hank Wurzer. .. . He thinks he won't have any dough to handle . . . you fellows who didn't have an opportunity to contribute to the various funds, send him your '*mite" so from now on in wc will have a fund out of which a High Mass can be said for every member "until death do us part." If you could have read the letter of appre­ciation from Mrs. Ahlering you would really know what it means to the widow. Remember more now than ever—"The buck you give may be for your­self." 
Here's a few wires and letters from fellows who sent an extra line along with their Armstrong con­tribution. Send In your card with greetings for Jim Armstrong. You know besides the Studebaker, we gave him a beautiful green leather-bound book, con­taining the greetings from the class of '25. The cover was embossed — To Jim from His Class of *25 —^June 9, 1950. We are starting another 25 years thanks to that old "grad" of" 1900 who got the tribute for the fifty-year class. He made us all feel like youngsters. 
You can hang up the silvei'' cane and '25 cap (thanks to Ev Kohl for that Hnc piece of work on getting the canes). Dr. Joe £\*ans, Cincinnati, Ohio (wire): 
Reegrct veri' greatly my Inability to join in re­union activities. 
Dr. Charles E. Guth, Elyria, Ohio (wire): Fate decreed twenty-five years ago that I would aot be with my fellow classmates at graduation. Now once again she interferes to keep me from attending the twenty-fifth cJass reunion. Extend to them all my heartfelt best wishes and lets look for\%'ard to that fiftieth. 
E. P. McCarron, Law Office, P.O. Box 755, Fairbanks, Alaska 
How could I resist getting In on the greetings to Jim Armstrong? I am glad that Traynor has my name on the list — it is a very fine gesture. 
Mrs. Mac and I took a trip to the States (the old country) over the Christmas Holidays to visit our parents and folks in Wisconsin and she has just returned from another trip to Seattle. When 
one goe5 for a visit from Fairbanks it is really a venture — we don't mcasnre the nuks except fay the hondred, all erf" which means that it n just gaUm^ to be impossble for me to attend the rcnnicm DO matter how much I would like to. My brother Ward shall undoufaitedly show iqi since he lives m Chicago and he will have to take care of the job of tippling enough for both of us. Going over the list of class members that I received in the mail today, I just can't draw the line in sclecttng all those whom I would like to shake hands with, in­cluding yourself. 
I have been practicing law up here in Fairbanks for the past two years and I lived down in Junean the last five years before moving. There arc omtf two ND men in Fairbanks that I know of — Bfike Stcpovich, an attorney, and Doag MaiWnr, a jeweler, both of them younger than I. On my trip outside over the Holidays I spent some thne with my old roommate, Loa Cody, in MHwaokee. 
Once more let me tell you how unpleasant it is to contemplate sitting at home while such a grand reunion is taking place. 
A. M. McMulIcn. Room 601 Geary St., San Francisco 2 Calif. 
Endtised you will find a fJieck for 923 to present to the "Jim Armstrong Gift Commitee" 
Don Miller's letter reached me today, advising me of the arrangements, and since my family and I are moving from our address here in Evanston, HI., to San Francisco, mail has not reached me regularly. 
I'm very sorry to be unable to attend the June 9 reunion but since my moving date starts on the 7th and extends to the 15th, it will be impossible to be there. 
My Company moved me January 13 to San Fran­cisco, but with children in schfXfl I wai:ed until now to mrve the family. 
It will be appreciated if you will give the proper authorities the information that my home address has changed as of June 13, from 1313 Colfax Street, Evanston, Illinois, to 640 Fonlham Road, Saa Bfatco, California. 
The Irish Navy 
Navy Captain Roy Jackson with five Alumni on active duty at Lake Denmark, Dover, N. J. They arc (1 to r) J. C. Treacy, '48; J. H. Madden» '49; Capt. Jackson; C F. Hafron, '33; R. A. Stnibic, '47, and R. E. Sullivan, '44. (U. S. Navy photo) 
Detroit Honors Hugh Dean, G M Executive 
The Detroit Club this year named Hugh Dean its "Man of the Year." Father Hesburgh presented a ECTOU in the name of the club. In the picture above are (1 to r), Tom Moran, John Gorman, Sr., Mr. Dean, Father Hesburgh, Jim Motschall and dub president Lou Malone. 
John J. Shedian, c/o Shcchaii-Zari Motors, turned will be planning for the next reunion. It 65 Division St., New Rochcllc, Xcw Vork was a huge success and ever>-one enjoyed it. 
First, let mc thank you for the wonderful job ^\llen I returned Sunday night Mae put me to you did last week-end. The preparation was proven bed and called the doctor. He kept me in the by the excellent fimnut wc had. I loved every house two da)^. Tliat cold hit mc in the throat minute of it. About Jim'i; cai. I sptrnt 5omc time and shoulder. I guess I am getting old. Sincerely, Jilimday at tho plant ^ettiI•^- up the deliver)*. It Don Ikfillcr will be made through the locitl dealer and all speed Walter Hall, 4119 Pilkbury Ave. So., Is being put behind it, to get it into his hands ^finneapolis, Minnesota shortly. I have spoken to and written Jim giving him the balls and strikes of the deal and all should ''When I didn't see Dut Griflin at the reunion go off well. I meant to give you the enclosed letter which I 
received from him in April. Somehow or other it 
Once again, tlianks for a great time and may \ve 

slipped my mind and I am passing it on to you live to do it again some time. now in case you want a neu3 item about a fellow Henry C. Wuraer, Prcs., Blackhawk Hotels Co., whose name has not appeared in some time. 
You left too early Sunday morning for mc to get to say goodbye to you. I want to take this oppor­**I am commenting on the obvious when I say tunity to express to you personally your great contri­
that last weekend was the most satisfying and mem­

bution in time and effort and cncrg>- to the success orable I ever hope to experience. That seems to of our twenty-fifth reunion. Without you and some be the general opinion of evcr^'onc to whom I have of the others who worked so tirelessly I know that spoken, and I, for one, am already looking for­
our reunion would not have been the success that ward to 1955." it was. AVith kindest regards and hoping to see you soon, I am. Tlicn John Bartley enclosed the following f:ard and letter he received from Dut Griflin: written 
Hank Wurzer 

from Mexico City, Mexico, on March 28, 1950: Laurence W. Kennedy, 3441 San Pasqual St., 
"As my present position requires two South Pasadena 10, Calif. 
American trips per year, I am at present away from tlic States for the first one of 1950. I have May I inform you that your appeals for donations every intention and expectation of making our re­for the class of '25 reunion have not fallen on union by routing my return from this trip via deaf ears. Unfortunately, my husband, Mr. Law­South Bend—and unless something unforeseen €>c­rence W. Kennedy, to whom the letters %vere ad­curs will be seeing you and the gang there at the dressed, is unable to respond at this time. Tins is festivities."—DUT GRIFFIN. 

due to circumstances be^'ond his control — he is hos­
pitalized for orthopedic surger>' for an indefinite 
time. I'm sure he regrets deeply not being able George \Vard, 4554 Broadway, 
to join the '25ers in any material %*-ay. Yours truly, Chicago 40, Illinois 
Mrs. L. ^V. Kennedy Thanks to you fellows for carr>-ing the ball on this vcr>' dcscninng matter. I am chagrined that IDon Miller, United States Dcpt. of Justice, 
will be unable to be present for our reunion. I United States Attorney, Cleveland 14, Ohio 
would certainly like to see ever>*body. I think the 

May I express my deep appreciation for all of class of 1925 was the best ever . . . don't you? your wonderful work in preparing our successful Kindest regards, 25th reunion. I am certain that everyone who re-George Ward Gerald J. Holland, 2534 LaMothe, Detroit, Mich. 
Enclosed is my contribution for Jim's gift- If more money is needed, you can expect further con­tribution from me. Will sec you next Saturday at Notre Dame. P.S.: This is the best damn thing the class has ever done. Regards, 
Jerry Holland 
John A. Elliott, 1420 King St., LaCrosse, Wis. 
Traynor's letter and suggestion of a tribute to Jim Armstrong is splendid. Enclosed is my check and I certainly think Jim descr\'es a "pat on the back." I plan on attending the reunion — how­ever being in the hotel business anything can hap­pen at the last moment to change plans. Hoping to see you as planned and congratulating you on your fine "stewardship" throughout the years, I am, 
John A. Elh'ott 
Frank W. Howland, Suite 1680, National Bank Bldg., Detroit, Michigan 
I am pleased to enclose my clieck with a personal greeting to Jim Armstrong. I think this is a grand idea, and Jim is most deserving of the special gift that the class of 1925 wbhes to present to him. I am planning on attending our Reunion, and will look fonvard with a great deal of pleasure to seeing you at that time. Best wishes, 
Frank AV. Howland 
Ben Kcsting 
Here's hoping the drive for Jim is successful, and that the reunion will be the best ever had, and that we will be back in another 25 years. Am anxious to sec if wc look as old as the Class of '00 did when we graduated. See you next week. 
"Ben" Kcsting Peter P. Dupay, Washington St., Basking Ridge, N. J. 
Am enclosing check to^vard the gift to Jim Arm^ strong and I am xery sorry I could not make it more. I will not be able to make the reunion. I hope you make the goal. Best regards, 
Pete Dupay Jos. E. Fitzpatrick, Florida National Bank, Miami 30, Florida 
Upon my return to the city yesterday I found John Traynor'i letter of May 23 and Don Miller's of the 3Ist. If anybody has done a good job, I am sure that Jim Armstrong has and I am heartily in accord with the suggestions that have been made. As stated in my telegram this morning, enclosed is my check to be added to the fund. I had hoped to fly up next Thursday night but some things have turned up which will make it impossible to attend the reunion so it looks like my next trip to Notre Dame will be for the Michigan State game. You fellows have worked hard to get the program together and I certainly hope you have a good turnout. With best wishes, I am, sincerely, 
Jos. E. Fitzpatrick 
John P. Traynor has been appointed v.-p. and manager of real estate mortgages for Mutual Life Insurance Co. of Nc^v* York. Louis W. Dawson, president, made the announcement recently in New York. 
He joined the company as manager of real estate in 1943 and in 1945 was appointed assistant manager of real estate mortgages. Before joining Mutual he was deputy superintendent of the New York State Insurance Department for seven years. 
Earlier this year he received an appointment to the committee which will select a site for the $11 million research laboratory for the U. S. Army Quartermaster corps. 
John IVforan is catching the '25 Special Car that CuIIinan is starting from Frisco! 
(He writes:) Dear John: I have been reading with much pleasure of the planned reunion of the great class of '25 and have intended to follow up with a letter — but like so many I never get beyond the mental note — until now. 
I am enclosing a small offering toward the Mass fund for the deceased members of the class — which I think is a wonderful idea. It Is a shock, how­ever, to learn of the large number that have joined the ranks of the "dear departed." 
Am looking forward to seeing you and the rest 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

of the '25ers sometime around June 9. It has been a long time since I hava been among those present, in fact, it will be my first reunion. 
John, Jr., is completing his second year at NOTRE DAME and I have another boy who should be there in 1952 — the faculty willing. 
Also have a daughter who is still in grammar school but will arrive in the teen-age group in June. 
I have been in the private practice here in Denver for the past five years after being in the Legal Dept. of Continental Oil Company for fifteen years prior to that. I have had a nice practice here, limited almost entirely to oil works. 
Don't sec many ND'ers out here. Most of the talent is in other parts of tlie country-. Your Class Secretary-: John P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdalc Rd., Toledo, Ohio. 
1926 
The 1950 reunions have now become history* and the Class of *26 can begin to prepare for its 25th reunion next year. 
Your secretary spent the reunion weekend "scout­ing" the reunion held by the Class of '25 and, as usual, those birds have set a pretty good target for us to shoot at (see John Hurley's report of the reunion). Incidentally, Joe Boland was also "scout­ing the *25 boys, two years in advance, for their 25th reunion. 
Undoubtedly, you will have read elsewhere in this issue of the new plan which the Alumni Board in­stituted in respect to permanent ofiicers for the x-arious classes. Those classes which were having re­unions immediately put this new plan into effect and elected or appointed officers to serve for the five years until their next reunion. It was suggested by Jim Armstrong that the '26 crowd, having only 12 months to work, get the ball rolling immediately and set up class officers to ser\-c until our reunion in June of *5I. 
Those of us who were on the campus constituted ourselves a committee to select the officers. Wc knew of no by-laws that would make our actions illegal. The following were the ofiicers chosen to act for the Class of *26 until their successors are properly elected at the reunion in June of '51: 
FUy Durst, Chicago, president; Doc Gelson. Sum­mit, N. J., vice-president (east); Bert Dunne, Salt Lake City, vice-president (west); Chuck Mooney, Cleveland, Ohio, vice-president (mid-west); Izzy Probst, Coral Gables, Fla., vice-president (south); George Hartnett, Chicago, treasurer; and John RyaOj Chicago, secretary. 
All of the above have accepted the nominations and plan to give their best efforts during their terms of office. 
Incidentally, you probably are interested in know­ing who were the responsible parties: at the re­union we found there were five of us present. Jack Adams, Bill Dooley, Art Haley, Gerry Morschcs, and your secretar>'. 
This issue of the ALUMNUS called for a rather fast deadline and your secretary was a little slow in getting out the usual 40 cards. As a matter of fact ho was "called" for making such a fast dead­line. If any of you felt that you could not meet the deadline and as a result just did not send anything in, please remember that it is always a\'ailablc for the next issue. 
First on the list is Bud Barr who missed the re­union this year, probably for the first time in many years. Bud says that he has been in the grain busi­ness with his father in Chalmers, Ind., from 1926 to 1945 except when he took a sabbatical leave from September, 1942 to Januar>-, 1944. During that period he did some world traveling at the expense of the Army. Having graduated in law and spent many years buying and selling grain, the Army de­cided he was perfectly fitted to be an armorer. They sent him to India and China and while there he picked up malaria and was finally sent home. As a result Bud is more or less retired since his return to this country. Perhaps he is the first of our class to be able to retire. We can put Bud*s name down as usual, right up toward the top of the list for at­tendance at the reunion next year. 
On a leterhcad of the Detroit "News," Sid Bower writes that he has been with the "News" since April of 1929 after having spent a couple of vcars with the South Bend "Tribune." Sid is mar­
1905 Came Back—Only Six Posed 
Six members of the 1903 class held still for University Photographer Bruce Harlan. 
July-August, 1950 
ried and has one daughter. He still gets back to South Bend quite often but in recent years has not been so regular. He expects however, to have a space saved for him for the reunion next year. 
The Grant Community Hospital at Lancaster, Wis., is tmder the direction of Dr. Harold Carey. Harold spent several years practicing in Chicago and in 1936 went to Lancaster and recently took over the hospital. His son Jerry was a freshman in pre-med in school last year. He has another son and two daughters. He extends an invitation to anyone passing through Lancaster to stop in and see him. 
Al Connolly writes from Washington, D . C , that he will be on hand for our reunion. AI is with the District of Columbia Recreational Department and gets around to most of the meetings that occur in Washingon. He says that Danny Culhane is about the only member of the class he sees. 
One of the fellows that took a dig at your sec­retary for the quick deadline was Joe Dienhart. Joe is assistant to the athletic director at Purdue University and from hb letter apparently does about everything except cut the grass at the stadium. Married since 1929, Joe has a 17-year old daughter and an ll-year old daughter. He meets most of the Lafayette alumni and recently at the basketball coaches convention in New York saw Pat Canny. He says that Larry O'Conner from '29 is manager of the Sears store in Lafayette and that one of his phy cd students was Clem Pat Crowe who made a letter in football at Purdue last year. 
From Charlie Dougherty in Philadelphia, your sccretary received a very complete although con­densed report of his 24 years. Charlie was married in 1939 to Edna Ryan, a sister of Rev. Harry Ryan, '27, and the Doughertys have one daughter. He has been active in political affairs around Phila­delphia and is at the present time office manager for the Federal Housing Administration in Phila­delphia. For five years Charlie was Commissioner of Motor Vehicles for the State of Pennsyl\*ania. 
Since your secretary has been operating on the job it has become very apparent to him that there are quite a few of us located in Chicago. John Endrcs has been in banking since graduation and is presently an auditor with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. His letter was written on June 22 which was his 23rd wedding anniversary. John has one son who completed his second year in the House of Studies of the Dominicans at River For­est, 111., and his other son recently completed his second year at Notre Dame. John plans to be back for the '51 reunion. 
Gail Gumett writes from Depue, 111., that he is still working for New Jersey Zinc as he has for the past 24 years. Gail lost his wife in 1944 and his son in 19-15 but he has four lovely daughters, the oldest of whom is a student nurse at St. Joe Hos­pital in South fiend. He plans to be back for the 
"Too bad we do not have a directory" is the expression of Art Klisc from Wooster, Ohio. Art wrote that he had just arrived in Wooster from Illinois and was leaving the next day for Texas. Be­ing in the oil and gas business since graduation, it appears that he is one of the heavy travelers of the Class. He spends his time jumpini; around throu'^h Texas, Oklahoma, Kentucky, Illinois and Ohio, wherever his company has wells, but he has not seen in all of his travels anyone from N.D. Per­haps, Art, your idea of a directory will bear some fruit. There already has been some discussion of sending each member of the clais a roster so that those who wanted could find their cla:smates. Of course, like always when any project of this kind is thought about, one of the first things that comes to mind is the expense. However, this is bcin^ ex­plored and we hope each member of the class will secure a complete roster in the not too distant future. 
If the class wanted to do a big promotion job in the way of getting 100 per cent return for the reunion next year, it might be that Jerry McDcr­mott could cover the country with billboards for he has been with the General Outdoor .Advertising Co. since 1927. He spent some time with them in Chicago, then Louisvilc and for the past five years has been in their St. Louis branch. In St. Louis he sees Bert Coughlin, Jtm Kennedy, Dan Brady, Frank Klein and has not been able to find Ed Rrendcrgast or Henry Gricsedlcck. While Joe Shea was in St. Louis he iiscd to sec him rather frequently. Jerry-
The 50-Year Club Had the No. I Table 
says that his older daughter Joan is not desirous of goins to St. Mar>''s presumably because she \%'as not "too impressed with the guy her mother got out of the deal.** Jcrr>' does not say he will be back for the reunion but I think wc can count on him. 
Recently someone wondered who would be the first grandfather of t!ie '26 class. It looks Hke the question is settled for L^w Murphy writes from Dallas that he enjoys very much his two-year old granddaughter. Lew*s son graduated at N.D. and went on to St. Louis for mrdical school and is now practicing in Dallas. Lew's dau^htsr gradu­ated a: Indiana in June of '49. It looks like wc give Lew the honor of bcin^ the first grandfather. If there are any among you that want to argue this point, please send in the n?ccssar>' proof. 
One of the most dilHcult jobs that your secrctar\­has is condensing the letters he receives. It would be mucli, easier if he just sent the letters on and told John Bums "here is the dope for the '26 column*' but I am afraid that we would be charged space rates for the materia! we get and space rates is what Stc\c Pielrowicz dcser\'es for he certainly sent in a nice letter. Steve has been with the Chicago "Tribune" for 24 years and is in the fi­nancial advertising division, so any of you fellows that read the "Tribune" and the financial pages will know that Steve had something to do with that material. Steve lives in Wilmctte with his wife and three children. His oldest, Sally, 19, finished her first year at Barat College at Lake Forest- The two boys arc a little younger and it will be sev­eral years before they will be wending their way to 
N.D. Steve gets around town quite a bit and sees raort evcr\'body. There are a number of alumni members of his churcli in Winnctka and, of course, there are quite a few N.D. fellows with the "Trib­une." 
Tliat about c:ompletes the word received from those who had an opportunity of answering your secretary's cards. Tliosc who did not get a chance to get a letter out can still shoot it in for there is no deadline on these stories. 
Tlicre are some that have not been heard of for quite a few yeam. The class roster shows the names of these fellows but no addresses and tlie Alumni office has not been able to locate any of them. Be­low is a list taken from the roster (no nicknames shown) and if any of you know the whereabout of any of these fellows, please drop your secretary* a note so that wc can get them on the class list: 
John Cullcn Brown, Lester J. Clarke, Dr. Fred 
R. Davis, Francis M. Esch, Dwight L. Field, Har­old J. Gallagher, EdH-ard J. Bebbcn, Mansiel Ha­gcrty, Linsun*; Hahn, Joseph P. Har\-ry, John \V. Keeliin, Harold J. Kilcy, John B. Lcnihan, ^Mlliam 
D. Mintcr, Rev. P. Herman Mossman, OJS.B., Le­cn5 J. Pallanck, John E. Probst, William J. Regan, Emmctt T. Rohrer, Manuel Voldcg Sanchez, Ger­ald L. Tlmmins, John H. Wagner, Maurice P. Welsh. 
Our Class is now in it: year of preparation for our 25th reunion. The 12 months will go awfully fast, as a matter of fact, one of them is almost gone now. As yet there has been no selection of chairmen or committees to prepare the reunion, so if anyone has any ideas about this matter, please send them in. In the meantime each of the 300 of us on the list should consider that wc ore ex officio members of the committee to get evervone back for the '51 reunion REMEMBER '26—PRE­PARE FOR *51. 
Your Oass Secretary: JOHN J. RYAN, 2^.Si W. Grecnicaf Ave., Chicago 45, 111. 
1927 
The list of '27 men who checked in for the Alumni Reunion you'll find below this column, I suppose: that's the usual practice. Red Heordcn (St. Norbert's College, DePcre, AVisconsin, football coach) and Christy Flanagan, who belongs else­where in these notes by class . . . but who is very much a contemporary . . . whiled away some pleas­ant hours on the Boland back porch. Flanagan has gone into the menhaden-fish er>* business, along with his other commercial actiWties, and his 'play­by-play' from sea to can on menhaden-fishing is 

Clockwise: Fcistcl, ''OO; Rccd, '97; Kerwin, '89; Kirby, '94; McCarthy, '93; and extreme right, du Perier, '00. The other faces belong to well-wishers and guests. Father Cunning­ham is beside Mr. du Perier, and is welcome anywhere. 
something that should be recorded for posterity! Hcardin is kept busy with a couple of little block­ing backs who at the moment are more interested in baseball than T-formation antics! 
Dick Hanousck has joined Jack Adams* Manhattan Warehouse and Storage company .. . in an ad­ministrative capacity'. 
\^nce McNally's father—the "Old Captain"— 
died recently — victim of an automobile accident. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Quiim, of Rahway, New Jersey, are prepared once more for \Tsitin3 firemen of '27 — and, come the pro football season, I'll be dropping in on them, I hope. 
Joe Benda, who began with us, and finished with '28, died June 20 after a long illness. For years, football coach at St. John's University, CoUegeville, Minnesota, Joe had made a tremendous reputation for himself in the coaching field .. . in spite of the hea\'y handicap of illness that hung over him these past several seasons. Burial was from the Univer­sity Friday, June 23 — and Art Sullii-on, Frank Mayer, John Wallace, John McNolly and your sec­retary were in attendance. 
Red Smith, of New York Herald-Tribune sports column fame, has just published a book c:alled "Out of the Red." It's a wonderfuul collection of Red's best sports columns — and Red's ordinary efforts put him alone, way out in fron* of the sports writ­ing fraternity, in tliis writer's opinion. So you can imagine what pleasure lies in his book. It's pub­lished by Knopf and Co., costs three dollars. TIME magazine gave it a wonderful re^^ew . . . putting Red in a class wi h the real giants of his trade: where the little guy from Green Bay blcongs! 
That's about it for now: drop a l:ne or two this way, please! 
From JOE GREELEY: 

(Dateline Dcggendorf, Bav'aria)—"I've just suc­ceeded in getting two Extension dubs in Nebraska-Elk Cit>* and Virginia — to adopt four Bavarian children from this district. To say they're under­privileged is selling them short. These youngsters— the oldest 14, the youngest 4 — have absolutely nothing but hope. 
Tlie clubs will send the children enough food and clothing 'o care for all their needs in these cate­gories. So far this is a one-man program but I expect a little help with all the pilgrims coming to Europe for Holy Year. When these people see the dire needs of these German cdiildrcn I feel certain they'll want to get into the act too. 
I've got an Irish boy coming to Deggendorf and a German boy going to Shannon." Joe modestly neglected to state that a story on 
his fine charitable work appeared in the European Stars and Stripes. He is U. S. Resident Officer in Deggendorf. 
Your Class Secretary*: Joe Boland, WSBT, South Bend. 
1928 

The Class of '28 will miss Bill Dooley who, as you know, is now Placement Director of tfhe Uni­versity. Bill dcscr\'es a special thanks for the help he gave us in arranging for our 2D-year reunion in 1948 and in joining the '28 glee club at the Mass for *28 deceased men that year. You have oiu: best wishes for success in your new position, Bill, and I am sure the '28 men will give you the same help in your placement work that you gave us as Assistant Alumni Secretary in our class activities. We arc pleased to welcome John Bums as our new* Assistant Alumni Secretary. We arc looking fonvard to working with him on our 25-year reunion in 1953. 
I attended the Annual Alumni Banquet at Notre Dame on June 10. There were 10 members of our class present but unfortuunately there was not a 1928 table since our class was not a reunion class. Consequently, wc did not get together. Our Class President, John Frederick, was there from Muskegon with his son who is registered as a member of the class of 1955. Joe Morrisscy, who is always present at ND affairs, came from Cincinnati. Joe will have 
'a son at N D next September. Bob Knox, an archi­tect from St. Joseph. Michigan, was present. Bob has two children. He tells me that his brother, Harold, is fanning near Crystal Lake, Illinois. Harold has a daughter at Mundelein College in Chi­cago. Noib Sctdcnsticker came from Chillicothe, Ohio, for the affair. Norb has five children ranging in a^e from nine months to 16 years. He mentioned that he sees A! Tdian in Springfield, Ohio, and Ross Harrii^toa regularly. I also saw Pat Canny of Cleveland and of the Erie Railroad and C?;rw;tie Flanagan of Port Arthur, Texas, on the campus. Pat was elected a member of the Board of Directors of the Monogram Club. Ed Quinn, who is doing some fine work in testing and vocational guidance at Notre Dame, was at the banquet. Ed has a daughter 21 years of age. Bill Jones of Wash­ington, D. C , a member of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, represented the Class of '28 at the head table. I also saw Trm B>Tn= of Cleveland at the banquet but did not have an op­portunity to talk with him. 
It was ai pleasure to note that a number of prece­dents set bv the Class of '28 at our 20-ye.-u- reunion had been adopted by other classes during the reunion week>cnd. The idea of the class c^s , which was suggested by Jolia McMahon and designed by Wil-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

lard Wagner, is now used by all reunion classes. The Class bar that Willard Wagner set up in Mor­rissey Hall for our 20-ycar reunion h now standard equipment for all reunion classes at their reunion halls. I am looking forward to 1953 when Wagner and other *28 men will introduce some nsw prece­dents at our 25-year reunion. • 
I met a number of our profs and men from otiicr classes who were close to the Class of '28. I had a good session with Father John Kelley and Fath-r Mulcalre. You will recall that Father Mulcaire was in Ireland a( the time of our 20-year reunion but he promised to be on hand in 1953 for our 25-ycar get-together. It was encouraging to hear from a number of the members of the Class of 1930 that they are regular readers of the 1928 Column. 
Stan Grinager operates the Roma Cafe at 410 North Hill Street in South Bend. I stopped in t3 see him and had a good session. He has three chil­dren ranging in age from 6 to 19. Stan and Iiis family have a home near Notre Dame. 
John Q. Adams, '26, Chairman of the Alumni Board Committee on Class Activities, is carrying on the work I began when I was a member of the Alumni Board with respsct to encouraging more class activities. John hopes to have activities de­veloped by classes in such a manner that Alumni Clubs and the Foundation Program will benefit from the class organization. This integration of class with other alumni work prompts me to notr the number of '28 men active in Alumni Association Club and Foundation activities. The Class of 1928 has been represented on the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association for a number of years. Tom Byrne ser\'cd as President and Honorar>- Presi­dent of the Association. Your class secretary com­pleted three years as a member of the Board and as Vice-President of the Association last year. Bill Jones is serving his second year of his tliree-ycar term as a Board member at the present time. 
Two '28 men were selected recently by Alumni Clubs for "Man of the Year" awards: Bsb HamUlon in New York and J. Harvey Daly in Washington, 
D. C. We have the followins '28 men as Alumni Club Presidents: Robert Lamey, Tri-State; AI Schnurr, Sandusky; Leo Mclntyre, Eastern Pennsy!­sT.i'a: Au^ie Grams, LaCrosse; and Paul Fry, Rock River Valley. 
Judge John T. CuIIinan and John F. McMahon arc Foundation State Governors in Connecticut and PcnnsyK-ania respectively. John Robinson 5cr\rd as Foundation Governor in Connecticut in 1947. Leo Mclntyre, as chairman of the Allentown, Pcnajyl­vaaia Foundation drive, was honored last vear Pt the Alumni banquet for having exceeded his 1949 Foundation quota. Ed Dean and Ed McGauIey as City Chairman in Monessen, Pennsylvania, and Worcester, Massachusetts, were ver>- near the 100 per cent mark on their 1949 quota on one report I noted. Other '28 men who have done good work as Foundation City Chairmen include: Jim Canizaro, Jackson, Mississippi; Tom Collins, Fall River, Mas­sachusetts; Herbert McCabe, Ashbun* Park, New Jersey; Henry Massman, Kansas City, Missouri; John P. Murphy, Little Rock, Arkansas; Augie Grams, LaCrosse, Wisconsin; John Frederick, Mus­kegon, Michigan; Bcmie Bird, Buffalo, New York; JcAn Carroll, Springfield, Illinois; and Christie Flanagan, Port Arthur, Texas. Ed McKeown con­tacted the '28 men in Chicago last year for the Foundation. Bill Cromn is now working on the Foundation in New York City. 
There are, no doubt, many other '28 men who are active in Alumni Club and Foundaiton activities who should be added to this list as my records are not up-to-date. Let me know of the work of other ^28 men in these activities. I would like to urge *28 men in the Alumni Clubs to arrange for '28 tables at dinner meetings as we have done on two occasions in the Chicago Club during the past year. I noted that '28 men participated in Alumni Club programs recently including Fathjr James McShane, S.J., who celebrated a Mass for the Denver Club and Vince Carney, who described his spring visit to Kome in a talk before the Rock River Valley Club. 
I had occasion a few da>'s ago to refer to the biographical directory "Leaders in Education" and I accidentally ran across the name of our classmate. Dr. Arthur Stenius. Art received his M.A. degree from Detroit University in 1934 and his Ph.D. from Ohio State University in 1941. He Is now professor 
Eleven and Democracy," "European Odyssey" and 
"The Story of Visual and Radio Education in Pre­
war Europe." I was pleased to know of the recog> 
nition he has received in the fields of visual, radio 
and safety education. I also found out for the 
first time from the biographical directory that Art 
was bom in Sweden. Keep up the good work. Art, 
and let us hear from you. Art has always re­
sponded when I called upon him for news but he 
has never given us any information about himself. 
Jim Cowles wrote from 515 Market Street, 
Shrevcpart, Louisiana, where, with the exception of 
the war years, he has been actively engaged in the 
private practice of law since 1930. He was in the 
legal department of a Federal War Agency from 
1942 to 1946. Jim married in 1934 and has two 
daughters. Mrs. Cowles and Jim attended the 
Tulane game at Notre Dame in 1947, which was 
the first time he had been back to school in 19 
years. I hope we will see you at our 25-year 
reunion, Jim, in 1953. 
I saw Father Mark Fitzgerald recently at the Chicago Conference of the Industrial Relations Re­search Association. It was the first time I had seen him since he received his Ph.D. from Chicago University in March. 
Joe DeBott helped me out with a letter from Geneva, New York, on the stationery of Broderick's Glen's Furnishings where he is manager. Jolm Larscn and Joe are the only '28 men now living in Geneva. John is Geneva's Sanitary Inspector. Joe reports that Joe Haney of Newark, New York, is seeking the nomination for District Attorney of Wayne County. Good luck, Joe, and let's hear from you after election. Gene Schlitz, also of Neu-ark, is engaged in the fuel business. Charlie Sclanskey is living on Long Island and is working out of the State's Comptroller office. Joe mentioned that he took in the Na\-y game in Baltimore last year, but like his trip to the Army game in 1947, he failed to see any '28 men. If the recommendation of the Alumni Board made in January is adopted, tickets for at least one game will be distributed by classes thus enabling the classmates to get together. I would ^velcome some support from you in trying to get this seating arrangement adopted. Joe men­tioned that he contacted Art Helton by phone. Art told Joe that Al Mahar, who is with the Merchant Marine, is married. 
It was good to get a response from the West Coast for a change. Phil Berthiaumc wrote from Portland, Oregon, where he is Regional Group Manager for the Bankers Life Company. He han­dles employee benefit plans for this Company in the territory of Oregon, Washington and Idaho. Phil is married and has one daughter, age 11. He visited Notre Dame last summer and had the pleasure of chatting with Paul Fenlon. I was pleased to hear that Phil, Norb Kavanaugh and Tom Mc^fabon of our class participate in the Portland Notre Dame Club. 
John Da\TS of Oswego, New York, favored me with a letter on the stationery of Browne-Da^is, 
Buffalo Does It 
!if."i,'J ii'!WW»>i«6««S 

Home Fiunushing Specialists. John's brother, Chariis Dani '21 is his partner in the furniture business. John has a daughter who a 14 years old. Charlie, who gave 19 orchestra leading about 15­years ago, has three danghten, two of 'wfaom are married now. Judge Tom McGough, who fiiuslied: a few years after us, is; City Judge in Oswego. Tom is married and has a son.. Jc^in sees JwAgt Bfaartoe 
B. Canley who holds down the bench in Fnlloa as well as taking care of a flourishing law practice. John reports that the Judge looks every incb the jurist and corporation counsel that he is, and that he has a fine family. It was good to hear that Tom McGou^ and Joha Davis have begun to stir up a local interest in the Foundation in Chwego.. up a local interest in the Foundation in Oswego. John mentioned that he met Fiaak Creadoa in front of Old St. Mary's Church in Chicago last January. Frank is a member of the famous Pkniist Choir and sings there every Sunday. John added. for the benefit of Rog Br^ia, N« b SeidemtidMr and Bob Kitby that hb golf game is strictly in, reverse. He hopes It will improve by 1953 when he has a golf date with them at our 25-ycar reuniim. 
Thank you Hul BertUaoBf, Joka Davis, Joe DeBott and Jim Cowka for your help in givmg me some ammunition for another column. How about some others from whom we have not had a letter for some time following their example. 
I received two more letters after cranpleting the above column which I want to give to you. My card requesting news reached Bottt Crowley in Omaha, via Cincinnati, where he was attending the National College Baseball Tournament and meetings connected u-ith baseball coaching. Botts was present at thd ^ring Game at Notre Dame and saw there, the commuters tv Notre Dame, Vat Canny, Fri^ M^lson, Fred Miller and Joe Morriney. Botts is in his 17th year representing MacGregor Goldsmith, Inc. in sales promotion in Colleges and IVofessional Baseball. Botts has a daughter age 6. He men­tioned that the announcement that Don Crowley of Middleto%vn, Ohio, was awarded the first Cin* cinnati Notre Dame Club scholarship makes it appear that the later generation will do even better scholasttcally than the elder Crowleys. Botts said he expected to attend the St. Joseph Valley party at Notre Dame June 27. 
Frank David wrote from 2260 O'Dwyer Place, New Orleans 21, Louisiana, giving a good account of himself. Frank started out after graduation as. an Inspector with the New Orleans District, Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army, and had some interesting experiences building up a land ownersh^ map of the Attdiafalaya Basin in Louisiana. - He', then became a Junior Engineer and worked as an Inspector of levee construction. In' December, 1940, he went to Jamaica, British West Indies, where he helped open a Corps of Engineers District. He was in service and went to Europe with the Engi­neer Section, Hq. XXI Corps, landing in LeHa^re in December, 1944, and becoming involved in the Colmar Pocket. Since his return to the New Orleans District in July, 1947, he has been Head of the 
 Family Style 
of Education at Wayne University. His publications Members of the Buffalo Club, their wives and diildien at the dob's ammal smnmer ontiag. 
include: "Radio Education in Europe," "Seven, Weather perfect. Jack Shine reports. 
July-August, 1950 
Canes and All, the Silver Anniversary Class at the Library 
The class of '25 needed no support — they gave plenty oi it, however. 
General Reports Section^ U. S. Army, Corps of Engineers^ where reports are compiled on flood control and on tiver and harbor Improvements. Frank was married in 1939 and has a tliree-year-old son. They live just outside the city limits of New Orleans. Frank is a major in the U. S. Army Re­serve and is Executive Officer of the 387th Engineer Combat Battalion. 
Thanks Bott and Frank for the letters and don't wait so long before writing again. 
A final letter from Art Dendifield from Cabca Postal 21, Recife, Pemambuco, Brazil. Art has been since January 1945 the General ^fanager of all Northeast and North Brazil of the Singer Sew­ing Machine Company. Art is married to a Danish girl and they have four boys. The Dcnclificlds plan to take a Delta boat on July 25 for New Orleans and go on a tour of the U.S.A. by auto. 
Art expects to go through quite a few towns where some of the old classmates live and he promises to take an Alumni Director)' along to get in touch with you. He will probably be arriv­ing about the same time as this issue of the Alumnus so I am pushing the deadline to get this to you. Art flew to the States last year to visit his mother who is ill. ' 
He also attended the North Carolina game and made a trip to Notre Dame at that time. I was pleased to hear from Art that he expects to return to the U.S.A. for the 1953 celebration of the 25th Reunion of the Class. 
Your Class Secretary: Lou Buckle^*, 4700 ^Vcst Adams, Chicago 44, III. 
1929 
Jim (Red) Carry (Real Estate—Great Neck. N. Y.) passed along these news items recently. **Da\-e Fidds is in Washington with the Dcpt. of Justice, Anti-Trust Division. Met Walter Shelly of Po­lotka, Fla., recently at Daytona Beach. Walt is the city attorney and has a private practice. Also I see Hii ^ McManigal (Acme Construction Co.) and George Brautigam (Attorney) in Miami every winter. Jerry Ondlctte is director of athletics In one of Miami's high schools. Jerry is doing a fine job. Saw Bob Alt in the subway during the North Carolina game weekend. 
A nun^ r of the '29ers were present at tlie game: John Naih, Larry Moore, Jim O'Coimor, Gaylord Haas, Walt DonneUy, Jack Farr, Ray HiUiard, Coo Carey, and Hariy Daley. I missed seeing Dr. Jim Tobin, John B. Sullivan and Dr. Frank Kane. Joe Morrell is doing well in legal work in Brooklyn (1821 Fulton St.) Joe was known as the ''Squatter" xn our days. Saw George Rowan recently from Pittston, Pa. George is the new city manager. 
Jack P. Farr zs living in Baldu-in, L. I., and doing a swell job for the .American Tobaciro Co. Ray HiUiard of N. Y. has been on Mayor O'Dwyer's Commission of Welfare for the past three years and has done an excellent piece of work. (See recent numbers of the Alumnus.) Jim O'Conner is in Public Relations with the N. Y. Telephone Co. Jim was discharged from the Air Force as a full Colonel. I see Walt DonncUy often in New York. Walt's father was a former Judge and is now associated with Donnelly and Donnelly. 
Lorr^' ^foore stopped in to \^it Charle)* Colton recently. Cliarlcy is business manager for the Taunton State Hospital and the ^filcs Standish State Scliool at Taunton, Mass. The Coltons (Charley and Marj*) haw two children, John 3, and Charlotte 6 years of age.- Charley is active in the Elks, N. D. Club of Boston, and Stewards Club. Henry Olbricht (Conrad Razor Blade Co.) of New York recently purchased and moved to a lai^e farm at Ancromdale, N. Y. 

Had a nice ^isit with Bob Schulze of Minneap­olis and Doc Dougherty of Stubenxille, Ohio, witliin the last few months. Doc is metallurgical Engineer with Weirton Steel Co. of West \^rginia. John B. Siilli\-an is on the School Board and head of the Board of Education in West Chester Coun­ty, New York. Harvey Daley is Personnel Director of a large grocery chain in AVashington. (Jim Curry was Harvey's best man and Tom Lantry was head usher.) Con Carey is Judge in &fassena, 
N. Y. and attended the North Carolina game. Con is married to Tom and Harry Lantry*s sister. 
Art L. Dcndtfield, Jr. *28t representative of the Singer Sewing Machine Co. in Recife, Brazil, flew up to the North Carolina game. Jim and Kath­ryn Curry recently celebrated their 17th wedding anniversary." Secy. Red Curry, this is excellent. Please do this real often and in the meantime 1*11 see who is coming up for Honorary Degrees next June. 
^Villiam (Si) Sidenfadcn and wife, Maxine, drop­ped in for a weekend visit at Notre Dame. The Sidcnfadens claim a class record for their nine children. Si is President of Suburban Gas Serv­ice Inc. of Ontario, Calif., and is planning to or^nize a flying party for the 25th Reunion. Si had a visit with Paul Bnrfchage of Vincennes, Ind., on bis trip up. Paul is assistant secretary and treasurer of the Blackford Glass Co. PatU and Vivian have a daughter, Paula, about 7. 
Dr. Charles A. Baum, D.D.S. (children's Den­tistry-—612 Rentschler BIdg., Hamilton, Ohio, and recent president of the Keeley Dental Society) is very active in sports and sports promotion xa I^m­ilton. Doc has been receiving a nice lot of pub­.Hcity as a dvic leader, typical sports fan and chairman of the Quarterback Club. He has re­ceived many citations for this work as a civic leader. Doc received his predental training at ND 
(raomed with Harry Altman—New Ulm, Minn.), his DDS from Indiana and does research in chil­dren's dentistry. He is an active member in ND Club, Xi Psi Chi, Ohio State and American Dental Societies, Elks, K of C's and Lions, and in charge of the Dental Program for the Board of Educa­tion. The Baums, Charles and Dorothy (Wulzcn) and Charles Jr. 7 attended the Tulane Game last fall. Doc is planning to attend the silver Jubilee Reunion in '54. 
George A. Brautigam (Attorney-at-Law, 1215 DuPont Bldg., Xliami, Fla.) writes: 
"I left the fair cily of Chicago In 1941 on an exploration and adventure to find some place that would bring me relief from a skin trouble called psoriosis (don't get it) and have found a haven here in the South. I had planned well in advance to be at the reunion last year but met with an untimely lawsuit in New Orleans that prevented the realization of my plans and anticipations. Per­haps when George, Jr., goes to Notre Dame and Gay Ann and Dyan Marie enroll at St. Mary's I'll have the pleasure of again treading the cinder paths. 
During the war I was happy to be interested in the U5 0 program in all Florida and served as the state director for t\%'o years, after which I went into the fund raising as executive director of the Florida War Fund. I have had the pleasure of serving as assistant municipal court judge of Miami, am a past president of the Notre Dame Alumni of Greater Miami, and a past Grand Knight of the Miami Council and presently a member of the Board of Directors on the newly formed Coral Gable Council of the Knights of Columbus. Dur­ing the war years my duties carried me to various parts of the state and I am h^py to advise that the State (rf Florida now boasts of three well or­ganized and functioning Notre Dame alumni clubs; Jacksonville, Fort Lauderdale and Greater Miami. Among the alumni here in Florida that I have met of our class, I am happy to advise that Joe Keefe, Lakeland; Ward Hadter, Miami; Hugh McMamgal, Miami, and Jerry Ondlette, Miami, have all been at the 'Fountain' and personally in the best of health." 
Dave Campbdl (Prof of English, ND) has added a new interest and hobby to his readings of lit­erature and Chaucer. He is now the most rabid Chicago Cubs fan in the entire district. Jim Gal­la^wr, if you ever need a third base coach, here is your man, and Dave always calls them right. 
Joieph Wbakn (Manager, Savery Hotel, Des Moines, Iowa, sends a fine letter along to sum up the Iowa situation): "In the early part of the month, Ruth (Mrs. Whalen) and I made a hurried trip to the West Cfiast. We had the pleasure of dropping in on Emmctt McCabe and his wife, Sar­ah, while we were in San Diego. I hadn't seen Emmett since Commencement Day in 2929. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

"In our business here we get to see a lot of the former Notre Dame men 'who stop at the hotel. Larry Mason, who lives in- Mason City, Iowa, is dow^n here quite frequently and Jimmy Gallai^er, who is associated with the Chicago Cubs, is in Des Moi&es several times a year: T^e Cubs own the Des Moines baseball team. ­
'*I had a short visit with Frank Carideo the other day when he was in the hotel. As you know, Frank resigned from the. coaching staff* at loiva University when Eddie Anderson left to go back to Holy Cross. Frank is now a district sales manager for the Monroe Co. and has the present job of lining up a sales force for the Io\va '.erritory, 
"The Notre Dame Club of Des Moines feels quite proud of the fact that the 1930 captain of the football team is from Des Moines in the per­son of Jerry Groom. The local Club had a ban­quet on the very appropriate date of ^(arch 17th, but I imagine that the alumni offices will receive a full report from our secretary. 
"Our older daugh er. Sue, just received her ac­ceptance at St. Mar)''s College and will be en­tering there this fall. I suspect I will be seeing more of you during the nett four years, or e\'en longer, as we have another daughter who will be ready for college in the fall of '53 and we hope that she will attend St. Mary's also. If you see Father Thornton tell him that we still plan to get over there before the end of the term this year." 
Jack Keams (city engineer. City of Champaign, III.) writes this fine letter on his family and N.Dcrs around Urbana: 
"For your column I am city engineer here in Champaign—have been ever since January 1, 1944. I rather enjoy it too, as I think this is a swelll town to live in. Of course I am a little of a heretic here among all the "Fighting Illini." Have four children, Johnny, 13; Ann, 11; Jim, 3; and Rosemary, 3. I don't ha\'c too many fellow N.D.crs here but have been seeing Carl Scjiubert (class in early 20's) who is a professor in the engineering school at Illinois, every day at Mass during Lent. I also see Paul Hannagan who attended N.D. about one year during the \%-ar, he is here in the farm implement business with liis father and a brother. I have a boy named Charles Clinard in the office with me who a tended N.D. one semester in the ^A\y, who later finished at Illinois. 
**Car1 Schubert and I attended a N.D. club meet­ing in Danville a while back at Father Burke Afotsett's, '32, parish house. We arc planning on celebrating Universal N.D. night in Danville wilh Les Hahne and the boys down there. 
"Please give my best to Larry Staudcr when you sec him. Hope to be abia to get down for a game this year. I would like to bring my oldest down to see the place. I might have to get Father Lou Thornton to sign him up while there. I had a little correspondence with him lately regarding a pros­pective student I sent over. The boy and his dad came home singing Father Lou's praises. 
"Will sign ofT for now. Keep up the good work, I always enjoy reading the dope on the *2Ser." 
Emmett McCabe (director of public relations, ad­vertising and sales promotion for Consolidated Air­craft, San Diego, Calif.) sends the following fine letter: 
"According to present plans I will be in New York, Washington, Dallas and intermediate points in May and look for^vard to having a real report for you immediately thereafter. I especially want to see Bill Butler in Dallas (who I located at long last in the most recent ALUMNUS) and Joe Drinan? in Englewood, N. J. and Vic Hart in Short Hills in the same state. Also Larry Moore who Is on top-side of the Navy Photo Laboratory in Washington. If at all possible, I hope to fly into Cleveland and see how the transplanted Jade £!der and his splendid family arc getting along. 
"The most gratifying experience I've had in a long time was a visit early this month by Joe ^Vhalen and his charming wife. The first time Fve seen him in almost 21 years! Joe is much the same as I remembered him, except he's really filling out that slender frame. It was a thrill to learn he has two beautiful and talented daughters and that one of them is headed for St. Mary^s this fall. Joe has clippings to prove she's the outstanding orator in the Corn Belt. Since I'm a sedentary 42, I can only wish well the frosh of N.D. '54 who will be hotly contesting for her glances. 
"Tomorrow we're having our Rockne Memorial Communion Mass and among others I'll see again Jerry Bill cx-2d and Jack KfcCIaren, also ex-29. Jerry is one of San Diego's leading real estate brokers, and Jack is doing all right in the sales end of International Har\"cster. Jerry has three sons, all of whom a:;pirc to make a block ND, and I see Jack and a very pretty young daughter at Sacred Heart Church in Ocean Beach. Also present will be Fred Ruiz, '28, who taught most of the '29cr5 elementary Spanish, and who is now head of the Languages Department of Lajolla High School. Al Stewart, '36, our local FBI man, has done a grand Job of keeping the name and tradi­tions of Notre Dame prominent in this area, and OS president ot our club, is now devoting time and energ>- toward a real turnout for our annual busi­ness meeting on April 17 and our annual dinner-dance on April 21. 
"Even os I'm w-riting this I received a special delivery letter from my old confidant. Father Lou Thornton who says he'll be in L.A. for Uni\-ersal Notre Dame Night. I'll sec him if I have to crawl to Los Angeles on one knee." 
Thirty Masses have been celebrated since our twentieth reunion by priests from our class. If you wish to increase the number let me know. 
During tlie Easter season I drove to Washii^toB to see the cherry blossoms and have talks with Dr. Malcolm Ray (National Research Council). nussed John IfhikrI by phone, talked with Larry Moot^ just nussed Jofai DM ^ and later bad a fast drink with Gayfatd Hu s and family in Ar­lington, Va. The Haas' have a fine family and their eye an a new car for a trip to the midwest this suminer. Gaylord has plans for our 25th reniucm. Recently, I met Di ^ Hai ^ at Mass and we later took over a booth in a nearby ccrfTec shop—you guessed it—all plans for the Silver JubUee. 
Here are excerpts from some '29 letters recently 
received: 
tc o SchraU (Baseball and Football Coach at Bradley University) writes: 
"I have no family—just zny wiSe and myself. I'm Head Baseball Coach and Assistant Football Coach here at Bradley University. Last year our club won 19, lost 9, playing such teams as Iowa, Wisconsin, Michigan State, and Oklahoma A. 8c 
M. We won the championship of the Northern Division of the Missouri Valley Conference last year but lost to Oklahoma A. & M. in the play­off. This year we won our Division again—and beat Oklahoma A. & M. for the Championshrp of the Blissouri Valley Conference. We will meet the winner of the Big 7 in Jtme to determine District 5 RepresenUtive at the NCAA Finals at Omaha, Neb., June 13-18. 
I am Vice President of the Notre - Dame Club of Peoria. I am also Honorary President of the Newman Club of Bradley U. A member of the Knights of Columbus. ,^so one of the originators of the Quarterback Club here in Peoria, and still a Board Member." 
Midtey McMakm (Manager of the North Amer­ican Co., New Orleans) writes: 
"As you know I have been in New Orleans for the past three years ha\-mg come down here from Cincinnati where we had been living since 1935. The Insurance Company of North America, with which I have been associated since graduation, established a Service Office for this part of the Gulf area in 1947, and I was fortunate enough to be chosen to open it. 
Ann and I hatx three chfldien, Tom, 18, Mary, 14, and Judy, 12. Tom is attending St. Aloysius High School, and the two girls are attending Sacred Heart Academy. 
Karl Kadewski of our class wss recently elected 
president of the Notre Dame Club of New Or­leans, and I see him frequently. I ran into Tom ' Ryan quite by chance a few months back' while he was in the city on business. Bernard Nalty and Lcraiard Nalty of our class both live in New Orleans and Karl Kachewski tells me that recent­ly, while at the New Orleans Airport be had a 
1915 at Their Smoker in Hotel LaSalle 
They're in favor of having a reunion EVERY year. 
July-August, 1950 
The Alumni Association President's Class—1920 
A bunch of 30-year (out) youngsters and still going strong. 
cliancc to cliat briefly with Frank Havclick wlio 
is Commodore of the Pan-American Grace Airlines 
with headquarters in Lima, Peru. 
^Vc here arc looking forward to the Notre Damc-Tulanc game in October and understand that the students have \-oted to make that the game for the students' trip. Plans arc undcnvay locally to make it an eventful weekend, and I sincerely hope that you can come down. I know Hugh ^fc^fanigal will be here although I havenU heard from him since his kind invitation to attend tlic SMU game in Dallas last fall, which I was unable to do. I am glad you ivcre able to sec Bob McVcty in New York and trust he is well and continuing to prosper. 
If any of the fellows arc visiting in New Orleani or going through, I would be delighted to see them. I can be reached at Inmrancc Company of North America. 624 GraWer Stret." 
Bob Newbold (U. S. Marshal Southern Dist. of Indiana] writes; 
'*Upon receipt of your Icttrr Bill Kricg and I had just returned from a week-end outing with eleven Boy Scouts—a Camporec held in Turkey Run State Park. The boys were from our Immacu­late Heart of Mar\' Parish—a new parish in In­dianapolis. Bill is very much an experienced back­woodsmaan and the overnight trip with the boys worked out fine under his management. When -Bin is not scouting, or building model airplanes with his two sons, Pete and Fritz, he can be reached at the law firm of Biidiman. Kric3, DeVault and Alexander, Circle Tower Building, 
Indianapolis. 
Wc had a good opportunity on this trip ti do some reminiscing ^ou t other '29crs—Tom R>*an. my fellow townsman and former roommate. Bud Markey, Kfanny Vczzie, Jim Brady, Jack Elder and others, including yourself, whom I used to awaken with the cow bell in old Sophomore Hall. I trust I am forgiven. 
For the past II years I have been cliicf deputy 
U. S. Marshal for the Southern District of Indiana. I come in contact quite frequently with another Notre Danic man, Har\'cy Foster, who heads the F.B.I, in Indiana. 
I am looking forward now to some fbhing in Minnesota. For the past several years we have returned to my wife's home to \'isit and to \'aca­tion. Our two sons, Mark 10 and George 7. usually catch tlic big ones despite the supposed ingenuity of their father. 
Don, I am sorry I didn't get to remain longer at the 20-ycar reunion. I certainly en'oycd myself while able to be there those few hours. Tlie fellows I talked to afterwards who \v-erc able to stay the fidl time reported they all enjoyed them­selves to the fullest. All of whicli speaks well for you and the other *29ers who so ably took care of the arrangements." 
Fathir Christcphcr OTooIe (Assistant Provincial ND) sends this information on members of our class ordained as priests in the Congregation of Holy Cross: 
"Father John Molter is Head of Dcpt. of Biol­ogy at the University of Portland. Father Jim Gibbons is Editor of the monumental work in se\'­cral volumes of the histor>' of the Church in Texas. 
This work is sponsored by the Knights of Co­lumbus. Father John Schcberlc is Professor of English at the University of Portland and Fathrr Ccmelius Hooybocr (whoFC mother died recently) is Instructor in English and Religion at the same school. Father Bill Coughlan is Professor of Mathe­matics at the Univer:ity of Portland. Father Geci^c Welsh after a long run as Army Chaplain is now Assistant Pastor at Holy Cross Church, South Bend, Ind. Father Bem:c McAvoy is Su­perior at Moreau Scminar>', Notre Dame. Father Ted Mehling is President of tlic University of Portland and Father Jce Barry after several years of strenuous activitv in tlic Army where he was decorated several tim;s for outstanding bravcr>' and scr\'icc, is now on the Vocatioml Rccnniin'; Staff of Holy Cross Semimr\-. Notre Dame. Father Jim Norton is presently assistant to the Vice Presi­dent in Charge of Academic Affairs. 
Father Tom Lane teaches Chemistry at Stonchill College, Fathrr J^i Garvin, Classics at Notre Dame and Father Regis Ritcr, Philosopliy at Notre Dame. Father Archie McDowell is teaching Eng­lish and Religion at the University of Portland and Fathrr Gcorgs Dum, Philosophy and Music at the same in^tit-ition. Father Lou Thornton is. of course, the well-beloved and well known Regis­trar at the University of Notre Dame. 
Four of our group are doing great work in the Mission Field in E. Bengal, East Pakistan. These arc; Father Joe Voorde in charge of a large Mis­sion Station at Mymensingh—the gateway to the Garo Missions; Father Jim McGar\'cy who was at Golla when I last saw him: Father Charlie Young at Boiabada and Father Jahn Harringtcn is in cliargc of the new College that Holy Cross has started in Dacca. Father Walter &farks of our class has transformed a hill top in the Garo Hills to build a Church. Convent and Hospital for the sisters at Boromori. 
My own job is that of Assistant Provincial of the Indiana Province. Recently I met Dennis 0*Ke=fc, Law '33, in Standish, ^fichigan. Dennis as Prosecutor for Arenac County is doing a grand job and is very highly regarded by the people he scr\'cs.'* 
Larry Stauder (Prof, of Electrical Engineering— ND) sends this note north on c:ampus: 
"Bernard (Pat) 0*L=ar\-, Leona (Brown), Jim and Susan were on campus over Memorial day to take their son, John, home for the summer. John is a freshman EE and had the misfortune of frac­turing his leg in a soccer game. This is John's second fracture of the school year (and of his life). Pat 0*Leary EE '29 is District traffic Su­perintendent, Ohio Bell Telephone Co. and lives at 903 Forest, ZancsviUe, Ohio. 

E!m3- Mayer recently donated an instrument demonstration panel to the Electrical Engineering Dept. in memory of his uncle Walter Welch, his­torian of Clearfield County, Pa." 
Secy—^Thc Stauders (Lany and Margaret Has-sett) have a fine son Larr>* II about 6, and arc active in Catholic Forum, University and .Aca­demic circles. 
Frank Ahem (General Undcnvritcr, Travelers Insurance, Hartford, Conn.) writes: 
"Mrs. Ahem and I had planned on being at School for the 20th year reunion but circumstances were such to prohibit this. I certainly am look­ing forward to 1954. 
We did get out to the Notre Dame vs. Army game at South Bend but our time was so limited and the crowd so large that we had little chance to look around. 
I have been active in the Notre Dame Club of Connecticut Valley and served as Secretary. Also, I went through the chairs of B.P.O. Elks. Hart­ford Lodge No. 9. and served as the Exalted Ruler-
In June of 1934 I marrird the former Mar\* Denn^hy and we live at 61 Evergreen Avenue, Hartford. Unfortunately, wc have no children. 
AVc have a place at the Connecticut shore and I got m\'self involved as the President of the Old L>*me Shores Beach Club for three years. At pres­ent I am finishing up a term on June 1 as Presi­dent of The Travelers Club, a Club comprised of the male employees of The Travelers Insurance Company located in Hartford. 
Since leaving scliool—the 'year Wall Street laid its big egg—I have been with the Travelers Insur­ance Company, starting to work in November of 1929. At present I am a General Underwriter in the Group Department. As you know. The Travelers carries the Group Life Policy on the employees and faculty of Notre Dame." 
Dr. EdH-ard J. Lyons, D.D.S. (Prosthetic Den­tistry—Spruce Medical Bldg., Philadelphia, and re­cent president of the ND Club of Philadelphia) writes: 
"Your last writeup in the Alumnus brou^jht back many familiar names and plrasant memories. Vis­ited my old friend Joe Lauber in So. Bend last fall. Joe and Agatha have a fine family, three f'^r St. Mary's and one for ND. Dr. Dan Boyle '38 who you taught Anatomy had a baptismal gath­ering for his fourth recently. Dan '32 and Peg Halpin were the godparents. When the physician arrived it was none other than Dr. JDC Tcrr-ri '29 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

(30 High St., Morristown, N. J.)- He is the all-
popular medico in that section. 
The *29 column is awakening a great desire for 
that get-together in *54." 
Swing olc Adam, swing little Eve — 
Your secy, attended a square dance at St. Joe's 
school recently and had the pleasure of swin^ins 
old Adam in an all '29 square. The set was 
composed of Joe Lauber and wife. Dr. Agatha 
Wilhclf, Paul and Agnes Bartholomew, Jim and 
MarccIIa Keating, and Don and Dorothy Plunkett. 
John and Marian Skelly stepped in on the second 
round. John is a Junior executive at Studebaker's, 
is in charge of the Athletic Association program 
and is very active in the Management Club. 
NEW LOCATIONS James OTooIe has moved from Los Angeles to 1830 Third Ave., San Diego. Francis Crowe (Per­sonnel Director, Packard Motor Co.) can be reached at 15368 Fairfield, Detroit 21. Tuny Ko­pccky (Lawndalc National Bank, Chicago) has moved to 141 Gage Street, Riverside, 111. Russell McGrath (Chairman of the Board—First Federal Savings & Loan Assoc, Providence, R. I., lives at 261 Waterman St., Providence, and Scc­konk, Mass.), writes: 
"My activities sinrc graduation have been for the most part in banking and real estate. In September 1931 I married Mildred V. Brown of Providence and our son Russell Jr. is attending Providence Country Day School. My business in­terests are director of the Harold Realty Co., Plantations Bank of Rhode Island, Federal Savings League, Real Estate Board, and Ruth Realty Co. (Mass.); treasurer of McGrath & Sons, Medway Realty Co. and O'Kecfe Motors, Inc., President of the Phillips Wickford Corp., and Executives club and trustee of Countr>* Day School. 
Sorry to have missed the 20th reunion last June. I am looking forward to our silver Jubilee reunion in '54. Count me in." 
Frank Heupel (Ser\'icc Manager and Sales Man­ager—Chicago Electric Mfg. Co.) sends a note on his family and activities: 
*"'My family consists of one wife who was at St. Mar\''s when I was at ND—although I met her later in the wilds of Eastern Indiana—and one son John Patrick, II years old, attending St. Philip Ncri's school. Wc hops to have him at ND in six years. 
I have acted as President of the Automotive Credit Group of Chi, Holy Name Society and Na­tional Electric Parts Assoc. About the '29ers I'll have some information for you later relative to John Cakley, the Foundation and our classmates. 
By the way, Don, do you know my sister, Sr. 
M. Amadeo of St. Mar>''s? She has a degree from ND and I expect we are the only brother-sister members of the Alumni Assoc." 
Release of the new educational motion picture **Thc President's Cabinet," produced under the su­pervision of Paul C. Bartholomew, Professor of Political Science, was recently announced by Coro­net Films. "The President's Cabinet" describes the Cabinet's position in the governmental system and its relation to ever>'day life situations. Dr. Bartholomew worked with Coronet Films' script writers and production crews throughout the film's preparation . . . 
"Roosevelt: From Munich to Pearl Harbor" is the title of a new book by Basil Rauch. The book represents a sur\'ey of the Roosevelt record and an expose of the distortion of the testimonies of Root and Beard. Rauch is at present Associate Professor of History at Bernard College. After graduation from ND, Basil attended Yale Univer­sity, L'Universite de Besancon and Columbia Uni­versity. He is recognized as one of the leading authorities on Roosevelt . . . 
Your Class Secretary: Don J. Plunkett, Depart­ment of Biology, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Some honest, anonymous and unlocated per­son mailed the Alumni Office a 1929 class pin. which the honest person states was "found." The person further states he cannot locate the owner but is sure \%-c can. Initials on back of pin are JMS. Postmark on the mailing piece was obliterated, but only two men in 1929 class arc JMS: John M. Stackpole, of .De­troit and Joe M. Sulli\-an of Waterbury, Conn. 
Class Secretary' Don Plunk;tt states that owner may claim pin after sending class sec­retary' one roll of stamps to continue mis­sionary' work.—Ed. 
7930 
Well, it was quite a clambake. The closing sessions of the 20-year Reunion brought forth lots of 5-year plans, looking toward our Silver an­nivcrsarv' reunion in 1955. Everybody agred to work on the absentees from this year's reunion, and get them here for the big 25-year classic ia 1955. Incidentally, Karl Brennan, manager of the 
W. T. Grant store in Rockford, Illinois, sent in the first reser\*ation for the Silver anniversary affair. Thanks, Karl, for your kind note about this year's meeting. A card from Tim Toomey, also, reveals that he headed straight from Mor­rissey Hall after the reunion for Massachusetts, to round up the Bay State fellows for 1955. After a visit in his old home town, Fairfield, he prom­ised some news frooi his regular headquarteis ia New York city. 
Now back to the Twenty-Year Reunion. A great tribute is due Dan Cammm, Benue Caarojr and Father Ray Totten. This trio planned and worited for months prior to June 1950 to insure a big turnout from the 1^0 class. One htmdred and thirty returnees—from Andy Aman to Dr. Robert Zeis— are an excellent testimonial to the efforts fA Co^hairmen Cannaa and Canrar, and Treas­urer, Father Tottca. 
A High Mass for the deceased members of the 1930 Class was stmg by Father Ray Totten Satur­day morning with some Moreau Seminary chor­isters singing the reqionses. Jim Leahy (Chicago) and Larry MnlKns served the Mass. JaA C"****^ was in charge of the ushering, a difficult assign­ment in Morrisscy ch^>el. A collection for the. Seminarians was taken up by Gm Boadi and Jadt Cannon. 
The class smoker was held at the Vetville rec­reation hall on campus Friday night. A buffet supper was served, a short business session held, prizes awarded, a few short speeches heard, and the affair closed with football movies handled by George Strohmeyer and EanI Stko. In the busi­ness meeting the former class officers were re­elected, namely, Ray Reardon, Harry Francis, Bemie Conray and J6bm Qmmu Father Ray Tot-ten was chosen Class chaplain and Devere Fhmkett was named Alumnus Secretary. Prizes were awarded as follows: To the class member of most expansive girth, Juvemle Jodge Fred Tdcwgng of E%-ansviIle, Ind. (Comment from Reno, Nevada ranchman Harry Bnsscher: **I was robbed"): to the reunion man coming from the farthest point, druggist Lmtu Berardi of Los Angeles (Comment from Commander George 0*MaIIey, USN, La Mesa, Calif.: "I was robbed"). To the classmate most dandruff-proof. Chuck Lenaoa; to the class­mate we were happiest to see present. Chick Drii­coll of Flossmoor, Illinois. A dfxir pri^ of two ND football tickets for any game next fall was gathered in by Larry ''Moon** MnlCns with the modest conunent: **lt couldn't have happened to a better guy." 
Ed "Moose** Kransc, Director of Athletics, spoke briefly at the Smoker to clarify an inddent about which many of the 1930 boys were puzzlecL Brief talks were given by Jack E!der, Larry Mnl­lim. Jack Cannon, and Frtd. Art Reynters, head of the ND LOBUND. Recently Clarence "Oome" DfHUvan, former mayor of Bedford, Indiana, and appointed parliamentarian of the 1950 Democratic State Convention, delivered a scholarly disquisition on Kentuckians and shoes, using Jack Elder as an e.'cample to prove what you can do when you have a Kcntuckian shod with track shoes or football cleats. 
The Depression Class ^11 6 Came Back to Morrissey 
It may have been the era of depressions but this gang was anything but depressed on Reunion weekend. 
July-August, 1950 
The Largest Reunion Class — 161 Men of '35 — Pause for a Picture 
These guys took the attendance trophy (?) for the weekend; they're already phmung for the 20th. 
News picked up around Morrissey Hall head­quarters: Jack Sigler arrived at the reunion from Spirit Lake, Iowa, armed with camera and flash bulbs. Jack, send me some of those prints of pictures you took in Morrissey Pub. From here Jack went on to Grand Rapids to pick up his wife, Helen (a s^vell person) and the Siglcr young­sters. John Ramcy, Cedar Rapids, also added to the Iowa delegation which included M. H. Ley and Larry Mnllins. Texas was ^vell represented at the reunion. Wc had Father Joe Kmledk, C.5.C., of St. Edward's Uni\-ersity, Austin; Ed Conroy, Commander USN (retired), now exec, \-ice-prcsi­
dcnt of Planning Board of San Antonio; John Bitter, man^^er of R. L. White Co., San Antonio. Mrs. John and their 3 children stopped by Sunday morning for a brief chat. One more Texas represen­tative; our bartender, George Strohmc^-er. 
The South Bend gang of 1930 members was out in good numbers. Fran Messick, treasurer of American Trust Co., was on hand. Lou Chapleau, prominent attorney and former county Democratic Chairman was seen shooting the breeze with the fellows in Morrissey. Lou Hasley, English Prof, and contributor to many Catholic publications, dropped in with Murray Kckey Ley, now residing in Davenport, Iowa. Walt Langford, head of de­partment of modem languages and varsity tennis coach, was on hand to greet everybody. Paul Fanner of the Interstate Glass Co., was at all the sessions. Paul has three fine sons (one in ND) whom he brought out at one session for us to meet. Karl Wcigand, former ND prof., attended all the sessions. Ed Cronin, head of some hush-hush experimental project at Bendix Aviation, came in Sun^y morning. Vernon "Buck** Slack, safety engineer at 01i\*er Farm Equipment, was unable to be present, because of a recent operation on his mother. Art Reyniers invited the fi-llows to visit the laboratories of LOBUND. A large number of the class made the trip Saturday afternoon and enjoyed the expert description of LOBUND actiri­ties by Prof. Bob Ervin. 
Pennsylvania turned out well for the 20-ycar reunion. Hn ^ Gall^ier was in town early wUh his family who visited w^th relatives in South Bend. Bcmie Conroy arrived Thursday night to give a hand with local arrangements. Johnny Roney, Dr. Matt Ward and Dr. Gene Raymond were seen circulating in Xlorrissey. Don Schettig irame, al­though he was doing a repeat periormancc, having been here last year for the 1929 20-year Reunion. Two strange characters found browsing in the li­brary stacks for three days were identified as Dr. Ridkard "The Bard" OTotJc and Bill '*The Build­er** Stcitz. **The Bard** was in seaxx:h of Elizabethan limericks to fill out his collection, while Bill Steitz was poring over volumes on creative dancing. They have promised to give a joint recital at the 1955 reunion. 

Micliigan had a good turnout for the reunion. Judge Harold Steinbacker of Battle Creek was here. Stcinie has a long record of public scr\'ice in Michigan, director of the federal census, county prosecutor. City Commissioner, vice mayor, and now Circuit Judge. Grand Rapids was represented by Arnold Levandosld, Jim M^cnnott and Vassar Rosewame. My old roommate on the fourth floor Badin, H. Maynard "Mink** Sullivan had a reser­vation in for tlie reunion, but last minute Army orders prevented his coming. Mink is a Captain in the Finance department, Olive General Hos­pital, Augusta, Ga. How about a letter. Mink, on what has h^pened since you and Louis Krem dissolved partnership? Bill Rcaume, Harry Dravcs and Jim Sullivan came in from Detroit all smiles. They have a baseball team there, and they know it. Jimmy Navarre, beer distributor around Monroe and Adrian, was mighty helpful in keeping the local pub supplied. He promoted a field expedi­tion to DrewTy's brewery, calling upon several dis­tinguished hops-and-malt scientists from the 1930 class. Fnmk Ready was another Monroe repre­sentative at the reunion. Joe Deeb *31, U. S. Dis­trict Attorney in Grand Rapids, dropped in Mor­rissey after the banquet for a short visit. He brought along Joe Rielly from Muskegon and Joe Morrissey from Cincinnati. 
Besides the Illinois fellows already mentioned (Leahy, Diiscoll, Brcnnan, Reardon and Quinn), that state was represented by the following: Chariic SmallH-Qod (Treasurer, Carroll Construction Co., Chicago); Dick Walter, Chicago; Art Petersen (V. 
P. and Treasurer, Petersen Furniture Co.), Evans­ton; John Golden, Chicago; Johnny Moran (All­state Insurance Co.), Oak Park; Bill McCarthyi Glenvicw; Chuck Lcnnon, Joliet; Tom Kccgan, Rockford; Tom Kerrigan, Chicago; Bill Bromann, Oak Park; Joe Butler, Crete; Paul Hddcamp, Chi­cago; Leo Durladier, Chicago; Dr. Frank Hetrecd, Chicago; Royal Higgins, Chicago. Jerry Holland, Miami Shores, Florida, joined Higgins, and B31 (Basketball) McCarthy in some early golf on the ND course Thursday. Charley Morrison was an­other Miami resident who came up * from ' Florida for the reunion. 
AI Shipacasse and Gus Bondi did a fine job get­ting the Ohio men here for the Twenty-Year affair. Ed Blatt and Norm Bradley were on hand, as well as Dr. Bob Zeis, Leo Scanlon, Joe Ryan, Jim Leahy (Tiffin), Leo Kcnnelly, John Hetlker and Art Gallagher. Chiience "Kcny** Kozak, Miller's High Life representative, had no criticism as he checked the stock in the Morrissey bar. Frank Miller from Fremont was another Buckeye check­ing in at Morrissey. 
New York had a good bunch of delegates here, and I think we are indebted for that attendance figure to Tlemey O'Rourke and Con Carey, state cJiairmen. Sorry Con was unable to be present. On hand were Dick Bloom, Tom Lantry, Jim Irwin, Ed Dempsey, John McCarthy, Walt Scho­land. Dr. Dan Shaugfaoessy, Ed Ellsworth, Joe Frid, Joe Kdly and Tim Toomey. I just received "Hm's post-reunion letter. He writes: '*I returned from my vacation this A.M. to find your note and I pray this bit of neu*s reaches you on time to make your deadline. I wished I had known you had to have news earlier because all I did last %veek was rest. 
**Jiin Rizer as you know was a native of Sayre, Pa., and prior to entering the seminary was em­ployed as Eastern Sales representative for Lsudlow Bros, book publishers. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1942 and rose to the rank of major after ha\ing served with the 13th Air Force in Italy. 
''Following his discharge he entered' Mt. St. Mary's Seminary in Emmittsburg, Maryland, and was ordained in Richmond, Va., on May 18. Jim will be assigned to mission duties and can be reached at St. Mary*s Rectory, 416 East Marshall Street, Richmond, Va. 
"Jolm "Bus** Redgate of Bridgeport, Conn., is­

•still confinedl-toTGaylordFarm'Sanitarium,.Walling-. ford. Conn., and will be glad to hear from his friends." 
Dr. Jobo Forsee of Louisville, Ky., arrived with a retinue of lackies carrying hb immense ward­robe. He teamed with Tom Lantry in a marathon bridge game against a formidable Hoosicr team, Loa StcCtler of Elkhart and Francu "Bill** Fink of Huntington. Bob Eggcman came up from Fort Wayne for the reunion, as did Larry Fitznmmons from LaPorte and Geoi^e Hineman from Conners­rille. Other Hoosiers who took in all the events were Bob Skno and Tom Medland from Logans­port. We were all glad to see Father Joe Cor­coran of St. Patrick's Parish, South Bend, and also Jim Halligan of Kfuncie, Indiana. 
John Motz came from Kitchener, Ontario, to attend the reunion. Gil IVendcrgast had to repre­sent Maryland as its sole delegate, as did John 
V. Moran of Boston for the whole state of l^fass. I had hoped to see Patsy Hastings, Phil Flynn and Dr. Tommy Ferritcr come out to case the joint. Gerald McKay and John Ydland carried Minnesota's banner here, and Bob Hdlmng was on hand to qteak up for Missouri. The New Jersey caucus included Jim Frid, Larry Cronin, Viwxnt McCne and John 0*DootteII. Also Dr. FUl IVowmieiD of Paterson was with us in Mor­rissey Hall. Bin ^icrman was in early from Knox­ville, Tenn. He is still with Scripps-Howard. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Tom Frost and Jndge Tom McDougal, reunion chairmen for Wisconsin, headed a delegation from that sUte that included Art Dorwin of Minocqua. Frank Hamilton from Dodgeville, and Ed Redmood of Milwaukee. The Judge pitched in and gave us a big assist at the Smoker Friday night, but he admitted that there was a little less order than prevails in his courtroom in Antigo. 
To the men who ordered a reunion picture sent C.O.D.: the order has been placed and the pictures should reach you soon. 
Reunion Potshots: 
^Vhat are we going to do with Pat Canny*s lOU? Do any of our class lawyers want to handle a tough case like this? . . . Commander George O'Mallcy's calm, temperate discussion of sports publicity with Charlie Callahan in the wee hours at the Morrisscy Bar. . . . Doc OHTooIe unrav­eling limericks for three days without a repeat. . . . Harry Busscher, a Brahmin steer ranchman, debating cattle with Texas Geoi ^ Strohmeyer, a White-Face devotee: no decision. . . . Christy Flanagan and Jack Cannon sizing up Varsity guards Fred Wallner and Paul Bums, and agreeing that they would like no part of them now or even 20 years ago. . . . Father Schrciner, C.S.C., of the Mission Band, doing a swell job on the harmonica and in leading the group singing. . . . The non '30 alumni who joined us at Morrisscy and whom we were glad to have with us: Johnny Frederick, Gay Haas, Matt Garrigan, Bob Knox, Al Grisanti, Christy Flanagan, Doc VaichuHs, Oonie Donovan. . . . Please remember in your prayers Justin McCormick, Caspar, Wyoming, who is very crit­ically ill. 
I was at the meeting of the Club Presidents and thought that it was most enlightening and I can say that I learned much that can be passed on to the members of our organization. In fact we had a little gathering the other evening and our mem­bers present were more than pleased at the sug­gestion I brought back that the other presidents elaborated upon while I was in attendance. 
Brother Martin John, C.FJC., is being transferred from Utica to points unknown by him as of this date. He was most helpful to us and all are sorry to see him go. The Club tendered him a little token of esteem at a party at the Club rooms of the South Utica Post. Brother Martin graduated in 1933 I believe. 
Don Fullem, ex-president, had the misfortune to lose his little seven-month son. He passed away two weeks ago. On the other hand he is to be con­gratulated upon his oldest boy winning a scholarship to St. Francis de Sales High School here in Utica. 
The Club is having their family picnic July 30th 
at Verona Beach, on Oneida Lake. Practically all 
of the members have signified their intent to attend. 
I brought up the issue of having the ND games 
on television and there were se\'en members at the 
dinner for Brother Martin John and they are fully 
in accord with the policy of the University in hav­
ing the games televised. 
Your Class Secretary: Devere Plunkett, History 
Department, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1932 
From JIM COLLINS: 
Joe Petritz is director of public relations for the 
New York Yanks professional football team, and 
has taken time out from his more glamorous duties 
to report on some of the fellows he sees in that 
area. Joe's Yanks arc in the National Conference 
of the League and he is confident that they will be 
the pro champs this fall. 
Joe wTites: "The only classmate I*ve heard from 
recently is Ray Geiger, back from a Florida vaca­
tion with his missus of nearly two years, the two 
of them and their young boy all afHictcd with colds. 
This rich life will soften up anyone. 
**Bill Tourney, *36, has recently moved to Sam 
Goldwyn Productions from Eagle-Lion after a tre­
mendous exploitation job on *'The Red Shoes'* 
which is breaking records all over the country. It 
has run about two years on Broadway. 
"I see Frank Wachsmith, '31, the eminent bar­rister, occasionally. His son, Donald, is back in New York after his freshman year on the campus during which he made Prof. Dan Pedtke's glee club. It IS later than we think! 
"I sec George Rohrs at National Football League meetings—he is a power with our rival New York Giants, and a big man in the coal business. 
"The same meetings also bring pleasant visits 
with Vince McNally, the basketball-football whiz of 
July-August, 1950 
FINANCUL REPORT 1930 CLASS REUNION Total Income _?2130.4O Expenses: Printing stationery and mailing to all Class Members (3 times) 417.88 Caps 258.51 Food, Beer, supper, supplies, jan­itor, etc., at Morrisscy and Vetvillc L 568.00 Alumni Banquet and rooms in Morrisscy 514.00 Refunds to those who could not get there 301.65 Offerings for Masses for both the living and the dead 70.36 
$2130.46 

nearly 25 years ago who is now general manager of the champion Philadelphia Eagles, and Clem Crowe, coach of the Baltimore Colts, one of Rocknc's great captains and the first of the Crowes. He is about to supply ND with another generation —he has 10 sons and daughters who, with their Guardian Angel, he says, gives him a full eleven. Also in evidence are Buck Shaw, handsome and successful coach of tlie San Francisco 49ers, and one of Notre Dame's greatest tackles, and Wayne Milner, the great '35 end, now end coach of the Baltimore Colts." 
Congratulations to Butch DeVauIt of the Eastern Indiana club and Gene Calhoun of Los Angeles for being named "Man of tlie Year" by their respective clubs. 
Flo &fcCarthy, recently elected secretary of the Cleveland Club, writes that Jerry Linn, now a consulting engineer liring in South EucJid, has ten children. That's right, ten. Mac wonders, jus­tifiably, whether anyone else in the class can match that number. 
H« ^ Ball, salesmanager for Cutler-Hammer Co., hat recently built a new home at 1519 W. CUftott Blvd., Lakewood, Ohio. Hu ^ has three sons to help break in the new home. 
1933 
Dear *33's: This is another banner edition, gents—^your col­umnist got another letter. Better call it a note— still it came through the mul, and was written by a '^-cr, so that makes it at least an insjde­tbe-park homerun in this league. It was from Bob Donovan, or I guess I should say. Dr. Bob. He was in Chic^^n for the American Cc^ege of in­dustrial Surgeons convention, and tried to get me a couple of times. It was one of those days when a hard-working P.R. had to be at the printers, so Bob was noble enough to drop a little note m lieu of the phone call. He is aligned with the Ford Motor Co., Somerville Branch—Somerville, Mass., that is—and lives in Arlington, also Mass. Thanks loads for the try Bob, and maybe I'll get a chance to buzz you when I'm in the East—and give you a chance to get your nickel back! 
Met Maurie GriflEiB on the EI the other day, and for once it was a pleasant ride to the Loop. Maune is in the printing business, with offices at 16 West Delaware, Chicago 10, and would love to hear from any old pals in or outside of Chicago. He has two daughters, who are living with hb wife in Min­neapolis until he can find an apartment and bring his family here. We ran through a long list of names during our chat—let's see if I can recall a few: Tom Masahan, Bob CCoanell, AI Stewart, Frank "Spike" McAdams, BaU Kiiby, Lows Bnn­nan, George Spaaldinf, Frank Leahy and Dick Sullivan. 
Speaking of Dick Snllivan brings to mind a long overdue tribute to a great guy and a great writer. In this ^ e of publicentiousness, it's a great com­fort to know that there's a man of fine talent among our own generation writing bfwks you can read without having to say the stations as an after-
Mr. and Mrs. Crowe Earn a Medal 
The Edward Crowe family of Detroit, honored this year by die Natiooal Catholic Family Life Conference. Mr. and Mrs. Crowe were pracnted medals at a special ceremoay in De­troit's Hotel Statler, honoring their contribaticm to the ideals of Catholic funOy life in Ac VS. 
math. It's prrhaps even more amazing that the publishers will take his novels, considering tlic amount of sin and crime he refuses to depict in hb writings. Fm gtWng you my ou'n opinion for ^^-hat it*s worth, and since we all know how much that b, I will now quote a good authority . . . "America** ^(agaztne. In the issue of June 10, this year, a most obscn'ant and articulate critic by the name of Riley Hughes pays dcscr\*ccl praise to our Richard: "In his Bayswcep novels—one looks for­ward to more of them—Richard Sullivan gives ex­ample to, and implies a program for, the American Catholic novelist. . . . Surely no time is more propitious than the present for the young Catholic novelist of artistic stature and serious purpose to invest the American scene, by an integrating in­direction, with the Catholic mind and temper. Rich­ard Sulli\*an has shown haw the thing may be done." Dick's best-known books arc "Summer after Summer," The AVorld of Idella May, and "First Citizen." One solid way to do your part to in­crease and assist good Catholic writing would be to invest in one—or three—of these books. You'll Iiave yourself a grand time reading them, too! 
Haven't seen many new '^old, familiar faces" late­ly, and since the men I have frequently named in this space arc undoubtedly getting sick of seeing their names inscribed, I'll shut this off with another plug for devotion to the Blessed Mother. Vacation time is on us as this is being w*rittcn—and if the spirit has grown as wear>- as the flesh, and you feel moved to cut down on the kn?c-iimc: re­member, the two quickest and most efTcctive pray­ers are the Our Father and the Hail Maiy*. Don't forget Her and she won't forget you. 
How about dropping us a post card on your trip —we wisli we were there, too! 
CORRECTION: It was not West Virginia moun­tain dew! But Mr. and Mrs. Mnccnt Reishman deserve to have it known that Vince has been around for some time. It was James Micha-1, the third son, wlio was the arrival the May-June issue should have reported. 
And Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Cahill—your old Class Secretary- and the Editor's young ex-secretar\' —are passing up long-standing social practices with the addition to their family circle of Mar>' Cath­erine, a four-months old Miss, who, for the bene­fit of the above named James Reishman. is a beau­tiful doll. 
7935 
Here is a brief report to all you fellows %vho wondered how we could stage the reunion at ten dollars each for the entire weekend. .-MI the bills are in and paid and we were able to pive a dona­tion to our reunion chaplain. Father Thilman, for masses during the coming year for our deceased classmates. Your reunion committee thought that was appropriate and would be your wishes also. In addition wc were able to donate a small sum to the .Alumni Foundation in behalf of the 1935 reunionists. 
The South Bend committee members once again want to thank all those who sent us their dona­tions for our initial expenses. .-Mso. we arc very appreciative of the glowing remarks we received from those who were able to attend. We intended to put on a reunion that you would remember and wc feel from your expressions that wc accomplished tliat. 
We hope to be able to see all of you again in 1935 and at that time to be able to participate ourselves in the carousel. 
Bill and Joe 
NOMINATIONS FOR OFFICE CL.\SS OF 1935 

BLUE SLATE President William F. Ryan (Indiana) Vice-President 
East Frank A. Dineen {Pcnns>-lvania) 
West — William Mead (Washington) 
South Jcrr>' Foley (Tennessee) 

Mid-West George Foss (Illinois) Secretary Franklyn C. Hochreitcr (Maryland) Treasurer Jcrr\- Doyle (Texas) 
GOLD SL.ATE President —Andrew Maffci (New York) Vice-President 
East William Kennedy (New York) 
West Vittorio Arcadi (California) 
South .. Charles M. Schill (Keniuckv) 
Mid-West John Clark (Illinois) 

Alumnus Represents Legion in Papal Audience 
Alumnus George J. Kelly At'as among representatives of the American Legion recieved by Pope Pius XII during their tour of Europ: to supervise distribution of toys collected by the Legion for European children. Above are Rev. Edward J. Carney, O.S.A., Legion national chaplain; the Pope, and Kelly. Mr. Kelly is assistant director of the Legion's public rela­tiooj division in Washington, D. C. He graduated from the University in 1942 and was a Navy flier in the war. His group presented the Pope with a scroll. 
Secretary* .._ Franklyn C. Hoclireiter (Mar\'land) Treasurer ~_ Patrick J. Lynch (Indiana) 
Well, gang, the big weekend has come and gone and those of us ^vha were back to the ole campus had one of a time! Wc came from prac­tically all comers of the world. Truly, Notre Dame and the spirit of her men must have a magnetic force. It may have been the ten-year wait to have one endless bull session that brought us back; and then a<;ain, it may have been * the urge to return to the University that burned within us a spirit that is our hallmark for life, and wc hope for eternity. You who missed it will go through life with a great void which only a return in 1955 will be able to fill. 
We were all represented—the retiring tN-pe and the aggressive character of that period fifteen to nineteen years ago. We all found our mates. No one was alone for want of finding his companion at his own level of interest. The ham radio oper­ators, the keepers of fish bowls, the devotees of classical recordings, the fire hose manipulators, the waste basket arsonists, the gunmen, the musicians, the varsity stars on all fields of competition, the artists on drawing boards and canx'as, the lab maniacs, and the plain ordinary students—all of us %verc there. 
Yes, even the party casanovas returned! And they could not stay away from St. Mary's—this time they used their wives* own reunion as their excuse to visit the "cabin by the pond." 
.\fter tabulating both the official University list of returnees and our own Committee's roster, and making changes on both to rectify the standard dcriation. wc find that 175 men returned for re­union. Some, we are sure, did not register cither place, and they would raise our total count some ten or more. We ^v•ere told that this was the larg­est turnout ever, but the official tally will have to be the yardstick. 
But, the m?re telling of a total does not tell a total tale! There's much more to it because we came from Hawaii and the Canal Zone; from Washington and Florida; from California and Ver­mont; and from Utali and Louisiana. 
Here is the geographical stor>-—read it and you will know our strength. Arkansas 1, California 2, Connecticut 1, Florida I, Illinois 49, Indiana 26, Iowa 3, Kentucky I, Louisiana 1, Mary-land 3, Massachusetts 3, Minnesota 3, Michigan 17, Mis­souri 1, New Jersey 2, New Mexico 1, New York 17, Ohio 8, Pennsylvania 9, Rhode Island 1, Ten­nessee 3, Texas 3, Utah 1, Vermont 1, Washing­ton 1, Wisconsin 7, Canada 1, Canal Zon: I, District of Columbia 1, Hawaii 1, Unknown 5. 
That's it—all 175 of them! We know of 19 more who sent in rcscr\*ation cards but did not show for one reason or another. Your Scribe tried to talk to everyone, he hopes he didn't miss too many. At first he was going to start taking notes to report to you. But then he decided that all who returned had the opportunity to chat with friends, and besides your Scribe wanted to enjoy the reunion too, so he put away his pad and pencil. He hopes that you will forgive him and grant him this small luxury. 
The question that faced us as we began to write this c»lumn was whether we should pick out certain indiiiduals and give them a "blow" to the slight of others. This is always a difficult decision to make, but running the risk of calling down the hex of some upon us, we will attempt to at least pin-point a few of the high-lights as wc saw them. Thin skins should not redden at what follows be­catisc your Scribe dubbed himself at the Smoker "The most repulsive looking character in the class after 15 years." (He has moved from that 130 of campus days to a mere 192 now.) 
Here are some things to remember for compari­son in fi\*e more years: Gen: 0*RetUy*5 Smoker 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

prize for the largest family—8 children, and his sharing another prize with Gcn= V^tchger for hav­ing the most sons—they both have 5; the disttn­gubhed grey hair of John Burke, line Wurzer, Jf^nny Nceson, Tony Scolaro and others; the mus* tachios of Dick Balliet and Charlie Montgomery; the rotundity of Jerry Molinori, "Josh" D'Amora, Vines Murphy, Bill Guimont, Andy MafTci and Jin* McCraley; the gay costumes of Roy Scholz and Bill Mead; the screaming of Bob Henneberger and Don Felts at the Smoker; the political suavity of Tom Froctor, Andy MafTei, '*Nicky** Vairo, John Dugan Carbine, "Rocky** Schirallt, Jim Shcils and Pat Fisher to mention but a few; the swell pho­tography of Vic Arcadi and Jim Hamilton; the paper bags walking out of the bookstore in the hands of "Daddies who didn't forget"; the won­derful takcofT on the Molioari talks by Tony Crow­ley whose stubby hair is now grey; tlie little surg­ical job performed by Roy Scholz on Jack Mat­thews in the inflrmary; the rejection of the F.B.I, by both "Bus** Brecn and "lean** Tom Flynn in favor of a law practice, with the atter of the two marrying and remaining in the Islands of Hawaii as a government attorney; the "Passport to the State of Tennessee" being awarded to the chosen few by special agents Jerry Foley, Tom Owen and Neil Farrcll; the second main course plates slipped to iLs at the Alumni dinner by waiters who didn't want to carry 'cm back to the kitchen. 
The message received by special envoy from the new manager of the dining halls that your Scribe may as well tear up his dinner ticket as a differ­ent color will be used in '55 and the *50 ticket will be useless; the prize which Tom Flynn carried away at the Smoker for coming from the longest distance—Hawaii; Bill Otic's Smoker gift for having the most daughters^ 4; the prize Jack Edwards took for his enviable spot as the most recent father—he almost missed the reunion; the memor>* of the **ncw Notre Dame'* that is growing up at the end of the ole car line now converted to busses; and the swell gesture of Jim Cronin in passing the hat for Father Thilman—the proceeds represented the collections of four Sundays at hi* Negro Mission church in South Bend. 
You sec we could go on for many paragraphs. AVe coidd tell you about the golfers who were torn bctwcn the links and the Dillon lounge like Wade Kdlcher, Jim Shells, and others; and the boys who ran down to the lounge to pick up ice for the room parties upstairs. If we ever got into the private parties in the rooms of Dillon we might never stop. 
And so to the program that our South Bend Committee arranged for our cnjo\Tncnt. To them wc can never pay sufficient tribute or give suffi­cient thanks. Bill Ryan and Joe Lynch did a magnificent job of whipping things into shape. But without their swell committee they would have been helpless. Let's tell you who they were and what they did. Paul Fergus handled publicity and 
shared the registration desk with Dan Youttscnnan 
and Fal Harris. Dan was the reception idiief and 
kept the beer situation and a lot of other things 
in hand all weekend. Fal took care of the cocktail 
party details. 
Kurt Simon did an outstanding job with the food—it was endless—and you should have tried those marinated herring prepared by Kurt's wife. Frank Maxwell handled a number of University details and Chet Chlebowski selected the prize. Ed Smith and Hal Goebel were always around to lend a helping hand. Father Vine: Thilman, C.S.C., attended ever)* activity, said our Saturday morning Mass for the deceased of the Class, and was gen­erally the ''mascot of the troop'* because of his mission church. 
How the South Bend Committee accomplished what thry did at $10 a man your Scribe w*ill never know. Food and drink was served constantly from Thursday evening until Sunday afternoon. Many of us ate only breakfast in the cafeteria and snacked constantly the rest of the time in the Dillon lounge. 
The informal gathering of Thursday night broke up around 3:30 a.m. Friday morning found us registering in the Law Building for the University. This brought us our green caps with the white '35 numerals^ our room tickets and the Alumni dinner slip. Once wc returned to Dillon the Committee was there to greet us and to put on the shoulder tap for the Class fee. Throughout the day the lounge was crowded as men came and went. There were tours of the campus in groups and in pairs— we all relived those happy (and sometimes insecure) da>'s of '31 to *35. 
Friday evening came the Smoker in the Rocknc Memorial lounge. And there again were the wait­ers, the food and the beer. But this time the prizes were added as was some music. Through the evening we had visits from some of our former priest teachers and prefects. Some of them and some of us made short speeches but we think the prize went to "Moose" Krause. 
At the Smoker your Scribe received the surprise of his life. In the name of the Class he was presented with a beautiful Grucn, veri-thin, cur\-cx wrist watch. It is engraved "To Hoch, in appre­ciation. Class of 1935, 1950 Reunion." We pride ourself In not being given to emotion, but frankly and honestly we tell you now that we came close to an expression of emotion at the moment of presentation. 
It is difficult to say "thank you" to all of you In this fashion, Wc tried, at the Smoker, to tell you of our appreciation, but again w*e want each and every man in the Class to know of our ver>' deep gratitude for your thoiightfulness. 
Saturday morning at 9 o'clock the Dillon Hall ch^icl was filled with linng *35era who came to remember their 20 deceased classmates. Thdr lec­tures hung in the Di]I<Hi lounge during the week­end, but for Mass they were transferred to the Communion Rail steps. You all received tfaeir ^c ­turcs in the last mailing before reunion. For those of you who could not particqnte in their Mass, as well as for those present, we rccimmkend a re­membrance in your prayers daily. Oar departed *33crs were the subject of many a quiet amver­sation during the weekend. 
The "athletes** worked up several sweats daring the hot hours of Saturday and some never made the Cocktail Party at 5 o'clock or the Class pic­ture in front of Dillon at 6. As a matter of fact they nearly missed the turkey dinner served at the Annual Alumni banquet. But for the most part the tattered and torn found fresh linen and pressed suits and looked fairly respectable for these formal affairs. 
.\ftcr the banquet we retired to the Dillon lounge once more and then "up to the rooim." Your Scribe turned in around 3 a.m. and the din was just getting into stride. 
Sunday morning brought the Alunmi Mass at 10 o*cIf>ck in the campus church and then the strag­glers began to leave with their b^^s of dirty clothes and legs feeling like a combination of iron and ndiber. 
At this reunion the University inaugurated a new policy regarding class ofiBcers. It was suggested that each reunion class elect a president, four vice-presidents (from the four parts of the country), a secretary and a treasurer. We appointed a nomi­nating committee of Roy Sdic ^ \tc Knrzwcg, Art Conrad and Fliil Rircdl. They broi^ht in a double slate w^ith a slight twist on our instructions from the Alumni Office. They selected tfaeir vice-presidents from the four undergraduate colleges of the University as well as from the four points on the compass. It was the committee's feeling that such a plan might bring greater participation from all in the class. 
We are asking the University to print up a ballot and submit it to you for you to select your officers for the next five years. One name appears for the same office on both slates. It seems that the com­mittee took the expression of the Smoker crowd literally—your Scribe was nominated to carry on for another five years. Wc accept the nomination —what else can wc do, there's that wrist watch which has to be earned somehow! We urge you to return your ballot immediately after you receive it. Let's be among the first to accept the plan. 
For those of you who want Class pictures, they may be had for $1.00 each in any quantity. Just wTitc your request to Bruce Harlan, the Univer­sity photog. Whatever you do, check off your officers. 
Here Is Where the Former Alumnus Editor Is Hiding Out 
Louis, '37, Don, '38; Jerry, '41, and Jolin '44. Right—BID GalU-
PLACEMENT OFFICE AT NOTRE DAME Left—Joseph Hickey, '50, of South Dcnd and Ted Schmidt of U. S. 
ghcr, Jr., of Chicago, a Liberal Arts senior being introduced bjr Rubber during interview in Placement Office. Five of Hickey's broth-Placement Director William R. Dooley, '26, left, to Geo^e Nemnaim thcrs preceded him through the University. They are Tom, '33; of Hartford Accident Indemnity. 
July-August, 1950 
If you wish a cap, they may also be purchased for $1.00 if wc order a dozen or more. If you wish one for yourself or the kids, send your dollar to mc along with the size (small, medium, large) and we shall order them all at one time. 
And so wc uTap up the 1930 Reunion of the Class of '33. Again we want to thank all those who contributed so much to make it a success. Particularly do wc want to mention Father Law­rence Brocstl, C.S.C., Rector of Dillon Hall who was a brick about having us, and to him goes our sincere appreciation. And to Jim Hamilton wc owe a debt of gratitude for those tag-along tables and ash tra>'s, not to forget the pictures. 

Since our return wc have received letters from Tom Owen and Neil Farrcll. WeMl save their notes till next time as we are already running a long story. But this we want to pass along. Xeil enclosed letters from some of the men who could not attend the reunion. Tliey were Al Lauton whose daughter graduated that weekend from the 8th grade; Tom Gra\-es who is with the Joint Mili­tarv' Mission for Aid to Turkey in Ankara; Phil Jacobs who was in the East on business; Tom Walsh who was on the West coast for medical care; Jim McDeiitt who was sweating out law school exams; and Father Jim Corrigan, S.J., in Theology at St. Mary*s College, Kansas. About these and others we will tell you next time. Keep those letters coming! 
Your Class Secretary: Frankl>-n C. Hochreiter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
1938 

Members of the class of 1938 will be neutral next fall when the University of San Francisco clashes with St. Mary's in football on the west coast. Joe Ruetz, appointed this spring, is the bossman now at St. Mar>"'s. Joe Kuharich has already had two successful seasons at San Fran­cisco. It really is remarkable how these two fel­lows were rivals in high school (South Bend Cen­tral and Riley High .schools], played together at the opposite guard positions while at Notre Dame, and now once again are rivals. Trust they both go undefeated and have a tic game with each other. 
7*his spring I showed a movie and gave a talk of sorts at Bay Cit>-, Mich,, and aficnvards spent the evening with Frank and Hub Kirchman, stay­ing at the lattcrs' home. They are in the restau­rant and club furnishing and supplies business and doing very well. Hub wants cvcr>-body to know-that after first being the father of three girls, he now has a son. 
Here at school. Father Bill Botzum and Ed Cronin arc among the top professors and John 
Black George 

A fast-stepping racehorse, named for Father Geoigc Holderitfa, CLS.C, and owned by Mr. • William Vecncman, Louisville, Ky., a staimch friend <^ die University. Black Cicorge \ias entered in this year's Kentucky Derby. 
Los Angeles Has a Luncheon 
Alumni President Leo Ward, second from right, and Los Angeles President Lou Berardi, third from right, await their turns to speak. 
PIoufF continues in his capacity as assistant to the Business Manager of the University-. 
As for '38ers in South Bend . . . Charley Swee­ney, an oil sales executive, was on the campus at reunion time to attend the Monogram Club lunch­eon. Chuck lives right near Jack Moulder, the Chrysler-Plymouth man. Charley Boro%v5ki is still operating in his edicicnt manner to see that all local Ia\\-5 are well enforced. The Charley Dukes recently had a second child. Charley is the man­ager of the South Bend airport, one of the best of its size in the country*. Don Fisher continues as a leading insurance salesman (Union Central Life) and Don Hickey has one of the more popular spots in town, Don's Fiesta. (Inasmuch as I've purchased two PI>'mouth5 from Moulder, get in­suranre from Fisher and from time to time eat at the Fiesta, it can't be said that I'm not trying to trade wtih classmates.) Jack Leadbetter is an­other whom I believe is still in South Bend, but I haven't seen him for months. Louis Anderson is still another. He's a legal-eagle and teaches a couple of courses at school. 
Way back at the 1946 Army game, ran- into George Belanger, Dick McCutcfaeon and Geoe Dolnn, but have had no word on any of the three since. 
Pat McCorty, coaching at Central Catholic, or is it Catholic Central, in Toledo, was in for a couple of football games last fall. George Schlaudscker, another who now lives in Toledo, was a campus visitor this spring. George has left DuPont and is now in business for himself. 
Bill Costello was a visitor over graduation week­end. He stayed at our home and w*c were up rather late discussing "old times." Bill has re­cently taken over a vcr>- good advertising spot with the Capchart concern (television and radio sets, record-players, etc.) in Fort Wa^-nc and ex­pects to make all the football games come autumn. 
Nick Lamberto, on the sports staff of the Dcs Moines Register and Tribune, received an award during the past year for excellence in sports writing. 
Here and there: Afet Ed Flanigan, and wife, at the Canisius basketball game, in Buffalo, last Janu­ary. The year before, at the Canisius contest, bumped into Dick Danahy for a moment. Walt Duncan, down from his oil business in Tulsa, was at the SMU game. So was Bill Castleman, the old golfer, now an oil t>'coon (in partnership with Joe O'Neill, '37) at Midland, Tex. Also at the Dallas game was Joe Cole, down from Nevada, Mo. Very prominent in making it a fine week­end for all Notre Dame visitors, players, officials and alumni, at the SMU contest was Ed Haggar, President of the Dallas Notre Dame Club. My wife and I spent much time in the company of Ed and his gracious wife Patty. Ed is now the president of the Haggar Company, in Dallas, and a big man in toun. .R:m into Ed Brower, a good 
while back, in the lobby of the Commodore, in New York. If memory is corr«:t, he's in the ad­\*erti5ing business in Chicago. Another Chicago adman is Eddie Brennan. Early in June, standing on the comer of Randolph and Michigan, in the windy town, a car went by in the su-irling traffic with the driver honking frantically. It was Eddie, the old infielder. Joe Callahan, who was at the luncheon held by the New York Club at the time of the basketball team's ^-isit cast to play NYU, is now a detective on the New York City police force. Bob Gariand, a successful attorney, was around the Palmer House the night of the Chicago Baseball Writers' Dinner. Going back a bit, Mel Dark came up from Arkansas (or maybe it was Missouri) for the Nebraska football game, at Lin­coln, two years ago. Tom Fitzgerald is doing well in the beer business in Indianapolis. Recently, while in Cleveland helping make early arrange­ments for the Navy game, which will be held there this fall, I ran across Dr. Tom Hughes, up from Columbus for a medical convention, and talked to Tom Mulligan, now a lawyer, on the phone. Both lads reported everything fine. Paul Kiidi, a high school coach in Muskegon, &Iich., was a visitor at the Varsity-Old Timers football game. Don't expect to get back to my old home in Lexington, Mass., this summer, but would like a word on Boston goings-on from Chick Galli^her, Joe Corcoran or Jim Blunt. 
From the mail bag . . . Vtncc Duggan writes from 6241 B Palaska Ave., Huntington Park, Calif., to announce the birth of a son, Patrick Nelson, bom May 5. Vince works for the *'7-up** folks in the Los Angeles district . . . and from the same area, 3320 Castle Heights Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif., to be exact. Gene Vaslett, the old Scholastic editor, writes that he is "hard at work with Bryan Brandenburg Co., a graphic arts subsidiary of Foote Cone & Belding, the advertising agency." Gene adfls that he and his wife arc "expecting their first offspring any moment." (That was u-ritten on May 21.) Gene states that he sees Tom Sbiels, who is in the music business, once in awhile and that he understands Nevin (Bunny) McCormic^ is still in his home town of Liver­more, Calif., as a teacher-coach. Ed Haggar, mentioned before, was another of the faithful few to come through with a letter. To the list of those who attended the SMU game in Dallas, Ed adds Frank Winters, Tom Copeland, Ken Fox, Paul Hughes and Babe Kelley's brother, Don. The latter, I believe is from the '37 contingent. Ed also men­tions that he has written his old friend, Pape Vcencman, in Louisville, but has had no answer 
. . and from Hal Williams, senior, I have a clipping about the lad who formerly wrote this column. It seems that our Hal had some trouble with the Communists during his foreign-corre­sponding work for the Baltimore Sun in Germany. It involves the Commies admitting they made an error. I quote in part from the Baltimore Sun, of May 26: '^Williams had been disaccredited and banned from the five-day Communist Youth rally on the ground that he had taken photogr^ns 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

'designed to falsify the scn-.e and purpose of the meeting.' 
" ^Williams protested at the rally's press head­quarters that he did not even have a camera with him.' 
** 'There's no use objecting,' a Communist of­ficial replied at first. *Wc already have your confession.* 
"I^ter, however, the Communists confessed they had no confession and returned Williams' creden­tials, disaccrcditing instead a New York Daily Xews photographer." 
Only three members of the class signed up at alumni headquarters on reunion weekend. They were: Johnny Buckley, Oak Park, III.; Chuck Sweeney,. South Bend, and Paul Kiszcli, Muske­gon, Mich. Har\ey Foster, the FBI man, who is now a director on the Alumnt Board and who is President of the Indianapolis Club, was also on the premises. 
That is the end for this issue. But please leave us have some letters. It would be so much easier that way. Also, get your football ticket applica­tions in. I can't Iielp you at the last minute when the games are sold out. 
Your Class Secretary*: Chas. Callahan, .-Vthletic Publicity Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1939 
The news for this period would have been al­most a complete blank had we obser\ed that dan­gerous old custom of obser\ing deadlines. Just today came through the mail the only epistle, message, gossip, or what-have-you of the month— and here it is already a week past the time of going to press. With the forbearance of our new editor however, we trust that this will sec the liglit of day. 
Dick Anton, who starts out on a high plane by referring to ''my good class secretar>-," drops the news that Ray Schlcck (who will probably be for­warded a card begging for news from somewhere else) is now with Hotpoint as Business Manager— Marketing Department. Dick is of course manager of Labor Relations for the same outfit, and doing quite well too. 
But Dick had news of others as well—^Jim Walsh, still with Marshall Field, is being transferred to New York with his whole tribe, now numbering a cozy six. "Red" Neumann, Dick and Jim had lunch before the mass emigration. 
Don't remember for certain whether the other Jim Gorman's whereabouts have been reported, but he's with the Creole Petroleum Corp. down at Maracaibo, Venezuela, and lias been there for the past three and a half years in the Marine Depart­ment. Last summer Jim and Iits wife and three youngsters spent three montlis alternating between Chicago and Sheboygan before returning to the old grind. 
Other than the above we must report a great lack of news. How about some of you answering those postal cards, or just take it on yourself to sit down and drop us a note. The rest of us will be glad to hear from you. 
Your Class Secrclarj-: Vincent DcCourscy, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kans. 
1943 
From JACK WIGGINS: To our rescue this lime came Paul Weber, Joe Krcsock and Bill Middendorf with letters. Our bat­ting average on the proposal to the thirteen ad­dresses published last issue was .000. I believe Min­nesota's Coach Bernie Bierman has a similar record against Notre Dame football teams. Arch Ward's exhortation printed daily in the Chicago "Tribune" that the "Wake depends upon its friends" certainly is applicable here—tiiis has not only been reiterated by this class secretary*, but practically all others at­tempting to compile representative class columns. To tliose who have cooperated with letters, our sin­cere tiianks—and a plea to all others to take a spare two minutes about every year to drop us a line. From Paul Weber (835 Wa-ihington .Ave., Albany, 
N. Y.) "I will tr>' to bring you up to tlie present. Jack, btit I don't remember where I left you off last. I believe our last bit of correspondence was years ago while I was still in the Army in Wash­ington. I'll never forget the big party Ed Hanrahan 
July-August, 1950 
invited me to in Washington. He must have told you about it while you were still in Chicago. From Washington I went to Germany and, as you prob­ably know, spent two years with the War Depart­ment as a civilian with the Military Government. I had a wonderful job—tlie world by the tail—and it was a great experience. 
"While in Berlin wc were well represented by Notre Dame. Father Maurice Powers, '33, Major, ."MJS Chaplain's Corp5—his picture was in the Jan.­Feb. .ALUMNUS was our chaplain. He did a won­derful job over there and got the N.D. fellows to­gether once in a while for a bit of a reunion. I was married in Berlin by Father Powers and spent a wonderful honeymoon in the German .Alps in Bavaria. 
"We relumed to the States late in '47, took a short varation and tlien made my bid for a foreign assignment with International General Electric Co. I have been working with I.G.E. ever since, but I find that I like home life better than being a globe trotter. The work is very interesting; we are in constant touch with all the various countries to whom we export. My particular phase of work at present deals with the obtaining of Import Licenses (unn the foreign governments; the export licenses from our Uncle Sugar; credits and manner of pay-mi'uLs. Things are shaping up slowly but surely. So much for that. 
*'We soon had an addition to the Weber family, Karin Susan (2 years old this May). I was surely glad to read that Julie Durbin was going to take the long walk. I assume, of course, that he is now married and I wish them all the luck and happiness in the world. 
'"That's all for now. Jack. One thing I promise: my next letter will not be five years away." 
From Children's Hospital. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.. Dr Joe Kresock sent the following: 
''This letter is more apt to be a letter of apology since this is the first time I am writing you. .At any rate, I promise to be a better correspondent in the future. That is, if I can be assured that you can read my writing! 
"From the address above you can probably guess that I am preparing to become a pediatrician. I am now in the final stages of my pediatric training, fin­ishing up December 31st. Incidentally, maybe some of my alumni brothers may know where a good pediatrician is needed, because as yet I have not decided on a location. My ser\'ices can be had if the location is right. 
"Before I go any farther I must tell you that my wife, the former .Ann McDonough of Carbon­dale, Pa., gave birth to a 7 lb. 6 oz. baby boy on April 19th. Looking at my wife's maiden name you can see where we got his name, Kevin. And you guessed it, he is going to Notre Dame. 
"I don't have much to report on our classmates because I don't run into many of them. At the 
N.D. banquet held here in Pittsburgh in April I ran into Bill Murrin. I believe we were the only ones from our class in attendance. In New York last fall at the North Carolina game I saw Bill O'Connell, Ed Ncagle, Ray Kelleher, and Ralph Carabasi. 
"Have some information about some of my old roomies. Bob Walsh is coaching in .Atchison, Kans. Bob Gardner is in Buffalo. He has visited my par­ents on several occasions when he has been in Carbondale. The last I heard Bill Costello was working with his father in the lumber business. 
"One of the most amazing reports I've seen in The .ALUMNUS was the one which said that my old chemist'r\- lab partner, Ralph Onofrio is out in California. That's a long way from Newark Valley, 
N. Y. 
"That's about all I can contribute for the pres­ent, but I'd like you to pass the word along that I'd like to hear from my old cronies. They can't all be too busy to drop a few lines—even if some of them arc in the medical profession." 
Bill Middendorf, seller of Candles of Character, writes from 2305 ^Vestbrook Drive. Fort Wayne 3, Indiana: ".A lot of water has gone over the dam since I last wrote to you but these traveling jobs, as you well know, keep one occupied. Now a little news concerning some of the fellas from '43 that I have run across in my wanderings. 
"I believe the best place to start is way back in Januar>-. I was in Terre Haute and happened to notice a sign "Christian Plumbers." Knowing this to be Freddie's hometown I dropped in, and there he was, big as life. Quite happy, too, for the previous evening his wife had presented him with Fred, III. That date I believe was January­10th. Then, sometime in April I was in Terre Haute again and Fred and I had lunch together. 
''From there I'll skip over to Indianapolis and the happy new home of Jack F. Rds. His wife, Margaret, presented him with Miss Nancy on Feb­ruary 26th. She is their first bom. From the looks of their new home. Jack must be peddling lots of wood products. 
"While driving on U. S. 40 I came upon the prosperous metropolis of Knightstown, Ind. In this fair city Bob Rihin and his father operate a large self ser\icc market. They had some tough luck not long ago ivhen a fire completely destroyed the building they occupied. 
"Not too long ago I broke bread with that legal eagle from Goodland, Sam Moulder. I wonder if the Olds he had ordered ever gave the satisfaction of his reliable Studc. (Gotta get that plug in for Studc, my fathcr-in-Iaw toils there). (Secy, note: Now you explain to me, Willie, "how come" you drive that Chev?). 
"Went to Chicago for a sales meeting about a month ago and saw Jack Barry hustling for the cl-ev-ated. Jack is a proud father and lawyer. 
The last time I was in Evansville I talked to Steve Ensner on the phone. Steve, Frandc Hilde­braad and I are supposed to have lunch together when I return. 
"Bob Hargrave and I got together for a meal in February' and we discussed the possibility and amount of the GI Insurance dividend that was then being noised about in the press. It's been a long time but I still haven't seen hide nor hair of mine. Bob is in the Trust Department of a bank in Evansville. 
"I was in South B:;nd the weekend of the re­union and thought I'd drop out to the campus to sec if any '43ers were about. I thought possibly that Leo LcH'is, Bill Wamick, or Frank Kaiser would show up, but they didn't. Guess the St. Louis Cards ore doing too well and they arc afraid of missing a game. 
"The obediences for the Holy Cross fathers came out this week and Father Bob Pelton of our class is going to Rome to study for the coming year. 
"Do you remember big Jim Byrne who used to prefect on first floor Dillon during our Junior year? He is teaching English at Northwestern and will have his doctor's degree by next year, I saw him at the reunion. Saw Bob (Gunga) Dinn at St. Philip Neri Church in Indianapolis some time ago. His sister-in-law, I believe, was being married. Bumped into Bob O'Reilly, his wife and four of his five kiddos at a church festival here in Fort Wayne. I also sec Edflie Hoch now and then. 
"Sometime in April Kiul Toland was waiting for a plane out of Cincy and stopped by dad's office to see if I were still there. Paul b with some large warehousing outfit. Sorry I didn't get to see 
him." 
1944 
Tom Shellworth follows up Earl Englert's infor­mation of the last issue: "I am working for Frigid­aire Division, General Motors, in sales promotion work in Northern and Central California. Jim Rowland, '45, and I have a house on Russian Hill—very run-down, but very Bohemian. 
"I attended ND night here—saw Mike Frawliey who lives in Burlingamc (on the Peninsula), sales­man for N.C.R., and father of 2, I believe. Mike looks very trim—got to drop in on him. Often see Jim King, '45, who is finishing at U.S.F. Hit the beach every week with John O'Connor, Santa Monica lad, N.D., '48, now a graduate student at Stanford. Where and how- is John Van Benten?" .Answer to the first question: 4438 Ralston, Indiana­polis 5. How about an answer forthcoming on the second question, John? 
Shellworth's new address is 1173 Vallcjo St., San Francisco. 
From Bob Carpen'er: "Hop- what little news I have will help you. To wit: .After being discharged from the 8th Air Force, I returned to Fall River (Mass.) and started workinj for my dad in his 
37 
furniture business, 1 am now running the business 
alone, my father having passed away in 1948. 
"I was married in May, 1947. My wife. .-Mice, 
and I own our home, and we liave a daughter, 
Roberta "Lynne.' She'll be two in July—pretty 
cuie, too. 
"W'c *verc in New York for the game in Novem­ber, spent an evening at the Mike Malloy's, and saw their two sons. Got together again after the game, and spent a little time at the Reunion before going to the Commodore where we saw Tcny Ma­lony and McCloy and his fiancee. Together we made a :our of several places, and ended up eating hamburgers about 4 a. m. 
"Saw Ed Keenan la*;! year at Raghnam Dog Track where he held an executive position. Evi­dently it wasn't peanms.'* 
.•\n announcement of good news from John H. Adams: *'I was married June 25, 1949. to the former Phyllis Tack of St. Mar\''s College, and on May 21, 1950, a baby girl, Gail Christopher, was bom." John's address in Shaker Heights. Ohio, is 25601 Lake Shore Boulevard. 
\'ince Bitter, Jr., has come through with some lenglliy copy: "First off, Jim Crowley, who is liv­ing down the block, just got back from a two-week training stint at the New London sub base. He belongs to the Reserxe sub unit at the Brooklyn Na\-y Yard along with Bill Dougherty and Bcmic Carlson, .-\ctually Bemie was the only submariner in the NROTC class of '44. Jim's an instructor in Navigation. He and his wife, Eileen, are sport­ng a beautiful little daughter. 
"Bemie, by the way, is practicing law in New York- Bill is working for Liberty Mutual Insurance in New York, and Jim is a freight agent for Moore-McCormack. 
"Ran into Charlie Montrie on lower Broadway one day. He's going after another degree at Yale, this one in Economics. 
"Pete Belmont ran a close second to Joe B>Tne for the office of secretary of the New Jersey .Mumni Club last Monday night. Pete's in the Personnel Department of Prudential Life in Newark. Bab Larkin was there, too. 
** ^Little Joe* Saiuone surprised ever>-one by an­nouncing that he was married last .April to a South Bend lass whom he met in Burlington, North Car­olina. Both had been working at the local broad­casting station. Joe*s now back at school taking up law. 
'*John Mann, my old roomie, long since a mar­ried man and poppa, has settled down to being the Lawrence, Mass., area salesman for Lever Broth­ers. He tells me Jim Cower is at St. Phillips Sem­inar\' in Boston studying to be a Padre. Ed Ghigli­otli is coach of the baseball team at New Dorp Higl) on Staten Island. 
".\s for me, took a sojourn at the Har^-ard Busi­ness School with Frank Eck, Art Connors, Jack Painter, Jack Alexander, Paul Ames, \^nce Oppen­heim, John Hickc\', Frank MacCauley. We grad­uated as a crew last June. I'm now a staff account­ant for Touche, Niven, Bailey and Smart in New-York. Other N.D. men here are Joe Rizzi and Pete Brady in the New York office, and Dan Shouvlin in the Boston office." 
.A highly interesting letter from Brother Carlos Dolan, C.S.C., "who is assistant director of Boys-ville in Michigan. But it's his stor\-, so we'll let him speak for himself: 
"Brother Htlarion Brerik. C.S.C.. *37, directs Boysville, the school which deals with *Boys with a problem—not problem boys.' Brother Alexander Buckley, C.S.C., '30, teaches and coaches. 
"Maintained by the K. of C. of Michigan, Boys­ville uses the prevcntixc system of Don Bosco for building useful men. The aim of Boysville is to help keep bo\-s. whose environment may be tem­porarily unhealthy or insecure, on an even keel. The ones who come to this school have never been in court, but they arc in need of guidance, understand­ing, and training to prevent the possibility of their taking the wronj turn. They come from homes disrupted by death, divorce, desertion, or incom­patibility "So at their own request, or through the K. of C , they come to Boysville. where a 10 niontlis school is operated with a four year course available. They are taught trades and crafts in ad­dition to the regular academic courses. My sched­ule includes ever^•Ihing from tvping to horseman­ship. 
"Located on the site of the old Edison Institute, started by Henry Ford, the school operates a 130­acre farm. The boys help with some of the work, but it is not primarily a S\orking' schedule. We have a swimming pool, which becomes an ice-skating rink in winter, and Brother .Alexander con­ducts a fine athletic program. 
•*You asked for a few words. Bill. I can't tell you about tliis project in a few words. Tm enthu­siastic over the work being done here with 68 boys; this place is not 2 years old. There should be more of these fine 'preventive' schools, to offer a helping hand to a boy before he has become delinquent." 
I'm sure your enthusiasm is shared by your classmates, Brother Carlos, and many of them, es­pecially the Knights of Columbus, will be interested in contacting you or the Michigan K. of C. to learn more of your program. The address for BaysviHe is Clinton, Michigan. 
.And finally wc iiave a long and interesting letter in the neat hand of Marc Augremanne. He writes: 
*'lt seems that I was the first one from Notre Dame to start working for Sylvania Electric Prod­ucts, Inc., here at their central engineering lab­oratories. (N. Y.) Since then two more Notre Dame men have arrived. Dan Gcoi^c, who was in several graduate math classes with me in 1946-47, is now in the Electronics section. Dr. Buck, form­erly of the Physics Department at school, now heads a section in thermionic research. So Notre Dame is well represented. 

"Just this past week I received a wedding an­nouncement from Bob Meuleman, '44. whose en­gagement was announced in the last issue of TH E .ALUMNUS. He is working for the General Elec­tric Company in Syracuse. When I visited him about a month ago, he told me tliat 'Chuck' Theis, '48, also with G.E., was down in Te,\as for a while but would be back in Syracuse after the work down there was completed. 
'"Since my start here I've been in the Circuits section, and last year was largely responsible for the design of Sylvania's new television-FM Sweep Generator currently being advertised. .At present I am doing further circuit work in TV. 
•"Just three months ago our family increased by one'. We now have two girls, Jeann Marie and Marcclla Anne. I hope that some day we have a boy so that w*c can send him to Notre Dame. 
"Wc expect to be in Clarksburg, West Va., next month visiting both of our families. By the way, my brother Camtlle, '42, is still in Clarksburg with his family. They too have had a new addi­tion. A daughter, Stephanie, arrived there this past N!ay 18th. I thought I might pass this on for the benefit of his old classmates. 
*'I wonder how many of the E.E. boys of the class of '44 arc around this section. I would like to hear from them. You might pass on my ad­dress to the column." With much pleasure, Mark— 18 Whitney Ave., Floral Park, L. L, N. Y. 
That's all. Wrap it up. 

1948 
Let's start off with a report from Bill RusscIL Bill is still with Foley Bros, in Houston and is sharing an apartment with Tom Brennan. Bill sees Dave Murphy ocassionally. Bill is looking for^vard to that Minneapolis vacation come August. 
Ed Aylward just graduated from the Kansas City University Law School, passed the Missouri Bar in .April and since March has been scr\ing as Law-Clerk for the Federal Judge in Kansas City. Ed is joining the Holy Cross Fathers in August. Best 
The Alumni Board and Sonne of the 105 Club Presidents 
It was an all-star program casting the Alumn! Board and representatives from 70 alumni clubs throughout the nation and abroad. 
58 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of luck Ed. Ed also reports that John Trave 15 Public Relations Director for the Kansas City Blues Baseball Team. Ed heard Jack Quinlan broadcast the Bradley-CCNY game this spring. Jack re­ceived high praise in K. C. for the fine job. Jack broadcasts for a Peoria station under the name Jack Quinn and follows Bradley ever>-\vhcre. Ed also reported that Russ Farrcl works for a milk distributor in K. C. 
I received a graduation invitation from John and Pete Kane. Both got their M.D. degrees from Wayne University on June 15. 
Saw several '48 men at Reunion time — Earl Bushman from Providence and Jim Ferstel from Wilmettc. On campus for the Club President's Council were Bill Daly» Frank Sanfilippo, Oscar Quotdhack, Fred Jones and Joe Sargus. Joe Conerty was down for his brothers* graduation. Joe is plugging for that Illinois Bar Exam. Bob Logan stopped in the office the other day. Bob had his wife and 2 children with him in South Bend. 
Bob Burke, the Cincinnati Club President, re­ported that Jim Burke was getting married on June 
17. Bob Hennessey and Dick Zawlocki were married sometime in June. Joe O'Reilly was married on January' 14 to Elizabeth Ann Tubman of Lake­wood. Ohio. .After having ser\ed with the FBI in Washington and Cleveland. Joe is now stationed in Portland, Ore. Joe has worked with the fol­lowing Notre Dame men: Cecil Jordan, Paul Kelly, Jack Donaghue and Joe O'Hara. 
Jot Quill is connected with the Prosecutor's of­fice at Indianapolis as Chief Trial Deputy in Crim­inal Court Xn. 2. Frank Hicks is associated with another Notre Darner, Tom Jones, '29, in law-practice in Boise, Idaho. Frank Robinson is asso­ciated with the same Naval Reserx'e Battalion as 1 am. •. . 
Jack Randall was married to Pat Crowe, sister of Fred Crowe, M9. on June 17. Notre Dainers present for the weddinc; were Bill VoII, Bart O'Brien, Jim Griflin, Callix Miller, Maury Mahon, John McShane, Jim Ledwith and yours truly. 
A card from Bill Hunthey—Bill and Carol Creiglt­ton %vere married .-Vpril 12 in Charlotte. N. C. Jack and Carol met Jack Rousseau and his new bride while honeymooning in Bermuda. Bill and his wife are living In Daytona Beach, Fla. Tom Dorr paid them a visit recently. 
Steve Pavela is back at Notre Dame thi; sum­mer for a few Education Courses. Steve is coach­ing at St. Mar>'*s. Michigan City, while teaching Histor\- besides. Steve said that Joe Yonto has .tust been appointed Head Football. Basketball and Baseball Coach at St. Steplien's High School, Port Huron, Mich. Steve paid Don and Jenna Weibel a visit recently when his team was up in Kenosha. The Pavelas are pretty proud of 14-montU-old Jun­ior. Steve said that Tom Kerrigan is a detective in Michigan City. 
A note from Bernie Lynrli announced that their first child, a son. Bernard John, was born on April 
16. Bernie's roomie. Bob Schirmcr from Syracuse was the godfather. Bernie is working for the Du­quesne Light Co. in Pittsburgh doing lightin? and wiring design for the commercial sales department. 
.A card from Barton Johnson in Bala Cynw\'d, Pa., announced the birth of a daughter. Mar>* Stephanie, on May 23. 
Jack (John H.) McCormick has recently shifted jobs and is now associated with Remington-Rand at Lima. O, 
Your Class Secretary: Herman A. Zitt, Founda­tion OfScs, Notr: Dam=, Ind. 
1949 
I notice that our class is doin^ quite nicely for itself in the Foundation statistics and. in that con­nection, I have received a letter from the Di­rector, John Cacklcy, e.\tending the University's warm appreciation for our efforts. Just thought I'd pass the good word on to you. 
Spent a weekend in South Bend not so long ago and saw Bud Condron, editor of tlic *48 "Dome." who was also there for a visit. Bud is with the Pflaum Publishing Co. of Dayton. Ohio. 
I told you once that I keep running across '49ers in the Union Station here in Chicago. The latest discover>- was Paul Kennedy, product of Dean 
July-August, 1950 
McCarthy's College of Commerce and now with the insurance brokerage firm of Marsh & McLinnon. Before going to work Paul and his brother Tom (ND, *50) spent the summer touring Europe. 
Last ALUMNUS we managed to get Mary Agnes Riley and John Market married on June 18, 1950. Well, the joke Ls on us because Mar>- and John were married on June 18, 1949. and were celebrating their first anmversar>-. Our slip is showing and we offer apologies. 
Tom McQuire writes to tell us that he is work­ing with the Fidelity and Deposit Company's Mil­waukee office and that he has become engaged (on the 12th of May) to Miss Pegg\- Collins of St. Louis who attended St. Mar>-'s in '45 and '46. 
From the Old Southwest comes this pleasant note from Jack Sweeny: "Before I continue any further I think it best to pass on to you the news of my engagement and approaching marriage (June 3rd) to Marilyn Frances Barrett of Fairmont, Nebraska. Marlyn graduated from St. Mary's last June. Since my departure from ND I have been employed by the University of California Scientific Laboratories at Los Alamos, N. M. I'm with the accounting department and so far I have been progressing along nicely. . . ." 
Phil Reilly stopped at the agency the other day for a chat. Phil is doing sales work for the Reilly Printing Company of Chicago and lives out in Cr>stal Lake. 
Bob Cianchetti writes from Brooklyn that he is doing work as a Social Investigator with the New York City Department of Welfare. He was married to Rose Guarine also of Brooklyn March 15. Gres Halptn and Joe Fahey came in for the wedding. 
Tom Landgren and Harr>- McDonald arc doing engineering; work for the Automatic Electric Co. of Chicago. 
Paul Retdman is with International Har\'ester in Rochester. N. Y. 
Carl Eil:rs i; witli Gar\er Tank over in East Chicago. 
Bill Casey was married to Roscmarie Hessberg, June 16. 
Jack E\*ans is an architect in Fort Lauderdale. Florida. 
Karl Ackerman is with the United States Em­bassy in Rome. 
John McKinlcy is with the Great American In­surance Co. of New York—Chicago office. J;rr\* Specht works for Mitchell-Hutchini, invest­ment brokers, here in Chicago. 
Edward M. Jordanich b working for the Stand­ard Oil of South BL'ud on a full-time basis in the .Accounting Department. 
Charlie Cain has recently left Kansas City, Mo., to accept a position with Koret of California, where he is imdergoing a training period in San Francisco and Los .Angeles. 
Richard S. Brosk is working at the State Hos­pital for Crippled Children in South Bend. Dick lives at 237 Tonti Ave.. South Bend. 
Norman Kopec, of South Bend, has been elected president of the Student Law .Association. He is a senior in the law school. 
Bob Connelly, wrote that he is working for the Hoffmaster Paper Co. of Oshkosh. Wis., with the sales department. 
Joseph J. Soldo, has a position with Penn State, at State College, Pa., in internal auditing. He was married June I7th. His home address is 226 
S. 39th St.. Philadelphia 4, Pa. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Frances Mar^' Turner to Stephen J. Galla, Jr. Miss Marguerite Sclifibelhut to Edward D. Sim­mons. 
Miss Bcttc Halin to Glenn L. Mast. 
MARRIAGES 

Bruce W. Raff, Jr., of Akron. Ohio and B:tty Lou Earl of South Bend, on May 21. 
Patrick J. Sweeney of South Bend and Dolores Kulupa also of this city. May 21. 
Joka N. Tenia, Jr. of N. Quincy, Mass., aad Ei-elyn Bon«r of South Bend, May 13. 
Jokn V. Randall of PhOadelpiiia, Fa., and Pa­tricia L. Crowe of Soutfa Bend, June 18. 
Kichafd E. Zawlocki of Ironwood, Mich., and Georgiana WroblewsU of South Bend, June 18. 
James J. Mrl.angkfa of Greensburs, Pa., and Mary K. Kreutzer of South Bend, May II. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. Robeit J. MacUa, 1207 N. Olive St., South Bend, son. May 17. 
The Reunion Crowd 
For those alnmm whaae classes hdd lenmoas at the University in Jnne, and who axM not make those rttnions, the ALUMNUS prints the roster of* retumins alumni whose names are not reported elsewhere in this issue at the AtUMNUS. 
1900 and BefQre 
R. M. Kerwin, Chicago, '93. 
M. D. Kiifay, Lansing, Mich., '94. Frank McCarty, Kokomo, Ind., 93. Rev. Thomas A. Steiaer, C.S.C. Alfred Dn Perier, Beaumont, Te.\., '00. 
W. G. Ferstel, Wilmette, III., '00. Louis C. Reed, New York Citv, '00. Rev. Bernard 111, CS.C. Rev. Matthew Walsh, CS.C. 
1905 
Daniel J. O'Connor, Chicago. 
E. F. Gnibcr, Frankfort, Ind. Daniel L. Murphy, Peoria. James J. Sherry, Terrytown, N. 
L. P. VanRie, Mishawaka. 
1910 
James T. Foley, Chicago. 
Rev. Peter Hcbcrt, CS.C. Harry F. McDona^, Chicago. Rev. E. J. Misch, CS.C. £v MoUc, Afarshall, &finn. \l. Harry Miller, Wilmington, Del. Rev. Michael Morlarty, Cleveland. 
William SchmJtt, Portland, Ore. Claude A. Sors, Middletown, Ohio. 
1920 
fVlfqnso .Anaya, Mexico City. James H. Bailey, Union, X. J. John T. Balf, New York. 
Ralph W. Bergman, St. Louis. 
Leonard M. Call, Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. 
Paid R. Conaghan, Chicago. 
Sherwood Dixon, Dixon, 111. 
M. E. Doran, South Bend. Fnmk Farringtcn, South Bend. Rev. WUiam C. Havey, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Rev. .Arthur J. Hope, CS.C. 
H. L. Leslie, Waverly, Iowa. 
R. Clements Menefee, South Bend. Henry McCullough, Davenport, Iowa. 
E. J. Meehan, South Bend. 
H. P. Mcster, Columbus, Ohio. Clem B. Mulholland, Chicago. Jc^ui Lyle Musmaker, Greenfield, Iowa. 
E. J. OToole, St. Joseph, Mich. Harry A. Ridiwine, South Bend. Rev. William Robinson, CS.C. Alfred C. Ryan, Buffalo, N. Y. Jam:s H. Ryan, Rochester, N. Y. George L. Sullivan, Packanack I.ake, N. J. 
R. B. (Dick Swift, Davenport, Iowa. 
J. L. Trant, Dayton, Ohio. Walter Miller, Cleveland. Francis J. Murphy, Lafayette, Ind. Leo B. Ward, Los Angeles. 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—/'/lofniv—Glenn J. XIcEoJDush. '32, 1807 W. Campbell. Tucson—Ted \V. Wiu, '29, Box 628. 
.•\RKANS.AS—FnrJ 5m'//i-Ra>-mond A. Marre, cx­37, 229 Merclianis National Bank Bldg. 
CALIFORNIA-Lol .4n«c/«—Louis Berardi, '30, 1227 Smithwood Drive. .Vor/Arrn—William T. Daly, '41. Riom 308, Bank of Commerce Bldg.. 1540 Saa Pablo .Ave­nue. Oakland. California. Saa BiV/io-Emmea A. -McCabc, '29, 3703 1J -Cresla Drive, San Diego 7. 
COLORi\DO—flrnrcr—Thomas G. Currigan. '41, 2925 U-y Strejt. Denver 7. 
CO.N'NECTICLT—Conncrficul Fa«0'—Matthew C. Meskill, '29, 101 Greenwood St.. New Britain. Saugatuck Valley—D. Frank Murnane, '32, Summit Road, Prospect. SouthivestCTn—Joseph McNamara. '29. Pine Tree Road, P.O. Box 202. Stepney. 
DEUAW.ARE--Arthur C. Baum, '3G, 1310 Van Bur-en St., .Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLU.\tBI.\—It'oi/iins/on—Tliomas 
J. FK-nn. '35. 1108 S. .Alfred St.. Ale.xandria. Va. 
FLORIDA—Crrn/fr .U-ffmi-Paris N. Cowart, '34, 1926 S.W. 8th St.. Miami. Fort LaaderJalc—Fred J. Stcirart, '12, Port Everglades Station. A'or/A Florida—}ohn F. Lanahan, '43, P.O. Box 1498, Jacksonville. 
GEORGI.A—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rumson Rd., Atlanta. 
ID.AHO—Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—Ccn/ro; /Z/inow-Landa E. Hoivard. '39, 1335 .N. 9lh St.. Spring.leld. Chicago—John W. Lacey, '38, The Forbes Lith­ograph Mfg. Co., 700 Wrigley Building. Juiilcrtt Illinois—}o\in Meyer, '42, 1314 Frank­lin, Danville. Fox I'DHO'—George R. Schmidt, '29, 253 Ham­ilton .Ave., Elgin. Joliet-Kanhakee—^Arthur Smith, Jr., '48, R.D. No. 2. /•forio-James Kelly, '43, 712 Butler St. Rock River Valley—Vau\ J. Fn', '27, 101 First St. Dixon. 
I.VDI.AN.A—Ca/ain<-J Z)ij/ri<:»—James J. Glenn, '35, 1337 I19lh St., Whiting. Eastern Indiana—William S. MacDonald, '27, Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Muncie. Fort IVayne—Edwin J. Wesner, '25. 4607 Fair­field. Indianapolis—llsrycv Foster, '39, 327 Federal Bldg. Mich'gan City—Dr. C. \V. Kobnczjk, '33. 1311 
Washington St. St. Joseph ra/.'o^John G. Farabaugh, '37, 1705 McKinley Ave., South Bend. Tri-State (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Robert Lamev, '28, 517 Le>vU Ave., Evansville, Ind. Wabash VaUey—W. W. Runge, '3D, 605 E. Wabash, Crawfordsville. 
lOW.A—DM .l/o.'nM-Joseph E. Casey, '41, 832 Des Xfoines Bldg. Dubuque—Robert H. Kenline, '35, 418 Bank & Insurance Bldg. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Mo'ine, E. Moline)—J crome C. Arnold, *24, 1019 Daven­port Bank Bldg., Davenport, Iowa. Sioux-Land—Edward Simonich, '39, 1635 Main St., SioiLV City. 
K.ANS.AS—Fjistern-Judzc Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. 
KENTUCKY—Roger J. Hunter, '40, 326 .\Ioaohan Dr., Louisville. 
LOUISI.A.VA—.V<r:c Or:<-<:::j—Thomas F. .McMahon. '29, 624 Gravier St. 
Xorthern Louisiana—James R. Nowery, '29, 
P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94. 

M.ARYLAND—Bii/li"mr)rc—Edward F. Sporl, '34, Mgr. United Fruit Co., Pier One, Pratt St. 
MASSACHUSETTS—J5oJ/on—Jack Xye DulTey, '35, Room 1024, 40 Broad St. Pioneer roHcj^Henrv- M. Padden. '24. 342 Sar­geant St., Holyoke. 
MICHIGAN—Berrien Coun/j—William H. Downey, '28. 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles. Blue Water Di"j/r:V»—William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O. Box 295. Port Huron. 

Central—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes. '21, 601 Willow Lansing. Dearborn—^Jack Courlnev, '25. 401 S. Highland. 
Df/rof/—Louis P. -Malone. '15, 3121 W. -Mc-Xichols Rd. Grand Rapids and Western .Michigan—Edward 
R. Dunn, '36, 2309 RKerside Dr., N.E., Grand Rapids. i/iii:to//ia.'onrf—Michael D. O'Kara. '33. Spies Bldg., Menom'nee. Iron Range—Roh-n T. O'Callaghan. '45, 625 McLeon .Ave.. Ironwood. 
.Monroe—Thorax E. Griflia. '33, 205 E. Third 
Street. Saginaw Valley—Carl W. Doozan, '38. 723 S. Fayette Street, Sagiiuiw. 
MI.N.VESOTA-Tmn Ci"/;«—Michael Keegan, '41, 6221 Bryant Ave.. S., Minneapolis 19. Du!uth-Snperior—\\'m. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 

-MISSOURI—A'onjoj Ci/J-—(.Mo. and Kaa;.)—Ed­»%-ard J. Rcardon, '37, 603 Fidelity BMg.. Kans. City. Mo. , St. Louis—Vmccnl J. Fehlig, '34, 7011 Lindell. St. Louis. 
MO.Vr.ANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th .Ave., Helena. 

.NEBRASK.A—Frank McGrath, '24, Chief, Boys Guides, Bo>^ Town, Neb. 
-NEW JERSEY—Thomas B. Hogan, '38, 27 St. Law­rence Ave.. Alaplewood. CenJro/-Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Waison .Ave., Pcrtli .Amboy. South jTerJej^-Valentine B. Dealc, '39, RCA Victor Div. 15-3, Camden, N. J. 
.NEW YORK—/Juyfc/o—George W. Fcrrick, '41, 124 
E. Winspear .Ave. Capita! District—AndrcK M. Pinckney, '41, 14 C'rcle Lane, Albany. C<-n(ra/—John H. Tcny-, '45. 153 Robtneau Rd., S>Tacu5e 4. .Mid-Hudson Valley—Francis J. Sanfilippo, '47, 51 Violet Pbce, Rhinebecfc, N. Y. .Mohazvk Valley—Edward. Xootmn, '47, 102 But­ler Ave., Utica. 
-Vc-ti York Ci)'—James 11. Shells, '35, 59 Pine Street. .Vor//i<rrii—Rev. Donald S. Gallagher, '21, St. Bernard's Rectory, Lyon Mountain. «orA«/<T—Richard T. Sulliran, '32. 23 Elm­dorf Ave. II. 

Schnectady—John T. Peters, '42, 13:3 Baker .Avenue. Southern Tier—Edwin Bonliam, '09. 329 Hamil-St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—.4iTo«—William Ahern, Jr., '39, 3120 Me­dina Road. Con/on-William H. Belden, '26, 305 22nd St., N.W. Cinrfnnol"-Robert C. Burke, '37, 3402 Cornell Place. C/eie/oiK/—John J. Elder. '30. 2545 W. Third St., Cleveland 13. Co/umfcuj-John J. Geddes, '32, 215 N. Eureka. Daj/on—Andrew A. ,Aman, Jr., '33, 618 Ridge-dale Rd., Dayton 6. 
Hamilton—^Judge Hany" F. Walsh, '31, Muni­cipal Court. OAio I'o/fo^Joseph F. Sargus, ex.'49, 355 19th St., Bellaire, Ohio. Sandusky—MIrtd A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, S. Co­lumbus .Ave. r."iBn—Fred J. Wagner. '29, 84/: So. Washing­ton St. To/erfo—Faustin J. Solon. Jr.. '38, 3701 Doug­las Rd. Youngstozvn—^Trancis Hopkins, '41. 3646 Stral­more .Ave. 
OKL.AHOM.A—OWa/iomo CiO-—Haskell Askew, "31, 624 Tradesmen National Bank Bldg. ru.'jo-Loyd F. Worley, '39, 2333 So. Evanston. 
OREGON—Oscar Quoidback, '48, 325 N.W. 18th Ave., Portland. 
PE.\NSYLVAXIA—£oj(ern—Leo R. McIntyTe, '28, 3004 Turner St., Allentown. £rie—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel Bldg. Harrisburg—Wni. J. Moore. '26, 3760 Montour Street. Monongahela Valley—C\ar\ts R. Montgomery, '35. 102 Price St., Belle Vernon. Philadelphia—Anxhroic F. Dudley, Jr. '43, 1123 N. 63rd St. Pil/jfcurgA-John P. Montcvcrdc, '33, 320 Fourth Ave. 5rr<in»on—Michael B. Comerford, '43, 1208 Richmont St. lt'i7A«-Borre—Edward J. Rowan, '35, 34 \Vcst North St. ir;Hiomj/ior/—Frank C. Hayes, 27, 501 Belmont Avenue. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt. '33, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—,l/cmpAi"j—Eugene J. Podcsta, '48 263 Stonewall Place. 
TEXAS—Caf/oi-James L. Walsh. Jr., '30. .Associ­ate Counsel, Southwestern Life Ins. Co., South­western Life Bldg., Dallas. Houston—R.iv'mond B. Keating, Jr., '35, 1438 Commerce Bldg. 
San Antonio—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stan­ford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39. 25 W. Princeton Circle, Lynchburg. 
W.ASHINGTO.X—5;ioian<—Vincent P. Sbtt. '43, E. 515 Ermina, Spokane 13. Western—W. Jerome Kane, '38, 10531 Valmay .Ave., Seattle 77. 
WEST VIRGI.MA—Albert H. Kessing, '40, 925 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. 
WISCO.XSI.N—For River Valley—V.oherl Bernard, '36, 953 Higgins .Ave., Neenah, Wis. Green Day—Thomas F. Heardon. '27, 135 .Mar:h St.. DePere. Wis. 
ioCroMe—August M. Grams, '28, 217 S. Front Street. .WiVaouilee-Richard S. Balliet, '35, IC519 Gran­tosa Drive. South Central—Frsnds D. Hamilton, '30, First National Bank Bldg., Dodgevillc. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Bengal, India—Krv. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Chiistopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man) La Metropolitana (711), Habana. Haaoii—Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, T. H. Manila—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25. (key man) The Insular Life .Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg. Panoma—William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, Ancon., Canal Zone. PiierJofiico—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 





