The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^^^•^ i3 not to b. ^^^ from the Library 
LU 


THE NOTRE DAME 
< 
UJ  ALUMNUS  
I— o  /  4. %  
^^^^^M  
o  Ij^^fc­•-^^^^^^^^^^M  
>  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^i' .  ^^^^^^^^^P^-/, .' ^^^H  
CO  
U J  
>  JOHN FRANCIS CUSHING. C. E. •06 Chicaso, Illinois Devoted Alunnnus and Generous Benefactor  

n: 
NOVEMBER. 1935 
SPECIAL LOW ROOM RATES. A CORDIAL WELCOME AND EVERY CONCEIVABLE FACILITy. COURTESY AND SERVICE ARE AVAILABLE TO 
Notre Dame Alumni^ Student Body and Faculty 
ONE OF CHICAGO'S VERY NEWEST. VERY FINEST HOTELS "As Modern As Tomorrow" 
450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully furnished and each equipped with bath and shower combination, Servidor, circulating ice water and every other convenience for your comfort. 

THREE COLORFUL RESTAURANTS 
INCLUDING POPULAR-PRICED COFFEE SHOP. 
TEN PRIVATE DINING ROOMS and BALLROOMS 
With capacities of from ten to twelve hundred persons and providing for dances, dinner-dances, banquets, suppers, meetings and social affairs of 
Be sure to every description, at low prices. 

see our new All lobbies, restaurants, ballrooms and 

NOTRE DAME 

private dining rooms are air-conditioned 

ROOM 

or equipped with cross ventilation. 



HOTEL KNICKERBOCKER 
Walton Place Just East of Michigan Boulevard 

CHICAGO 
ALLAN G. HURST 
Manager 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, *25 The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association Member of the American of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. Ilie subscription price is $2.00 
Editor Alumni CouncU. 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include WiLUAM R. DOOLEY, "26 Member of Nafl. CatfaoHc 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All Managing Editor correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni Fedentton. 
Vol. XIV. November, 1935 No. 2 
wmmms^m 
John F. Cashing, 
06, Dies in 
Air Crash 
The John F. Ctishing Hall of Engineering. 
John F. Gushing, C.E. '06, on the ful front of the magnificent Hall of their son was graduated from his Col­
morning of October 7, near Chey­Engineering his gift in 1932 made lege of Engineering with the highest enne, Wyo., became the second great possible. But more significant than honors in his class. alumnus of Notre Dame to meet that tribute of art, it is engraved in 
".A.S a classmate of Mr. Gushing, Ideath in the crash of a trans-conti­the heart of Our Lady, and will be am particularly proud and happy to nental air-liner, repeating on the cam­miiTored on the hearts of those boys accept this magnificent benefaction. 
pus something of that tragedy that who for the long future will enjoy Better perhaps than anyone else, Istunned the Notre Dame world on his bounty under Her patronage. 
know the underlying motives which
March 31, 1931, when the bright star The words of the late Father inspired this gift. Into these there is of Knute Roclcne fell from the Kan­O'Donnell, a classmate of Mr. Gush­no need of entering at this time. There sas skies. 
ing and then president of Notre is one important fact, however, which President Bernard J. VoU wiring Dame, at the dedication of the build­I believe ought to be brought out. I Mrs. Gushing and her children, ex­ing, express much that is in the heart violate no confidence, I am sure, when 
pressed the sentiment of the Associa­of Notre Dame today. I tell you that this gift is not at all tion: "Notre Dame men throughout a generous gesture in the spending of 
"Twenty-six years ago, there was 
the world mourn the loss of a true superfluous wealth. I find it is often 
graduated from the University a civil 
representative of the school of Our an unwarranted assumption that ben­
engineer who had, he thought, a spe­
Lady. Mr. Gushing was what we all efactions of this kind are made only 
cial reason to be grateful to Notre 
hope to be, an ideal alumnus. In by men who have, as the saying goes, 
Dame. Shortly after his graduation, 
the name of our graduates and old so much money they don't know what 
he was married to the lady of his 
students I extend to you and to your to do ^vith it. If there is such a class 
delight, who was also a university 
family our deepest and sincerest sym­of men, Mr. Gushing is not in that 
graduate, and the two together set 
pathy." class. This gift, be it said to his and 
about the serious but happy business 
Mrs. Gushing's everlasting credit, An oiScial committee, representing of building a home. .A.s time went on, represents courage and sacrifice on the National Association, was ap­the engineer achieved distinction in their part. For that reason, they have pointed to offer its semces to the his profession and a fair measure of a special claim upon our gratitude. 
Gushing family. Fred Steers, na­material success. During this period tional director; James Konan, gov­of a quarter of a century, his contacts "Mr. Gushing, the University hon­ernor of the Chicago District; John with the University were only the in­ors men who have justly attained suc­
cess in various walks of life. May I Dame Club of Chicago, and Harold very busy executive who had also be­W. Scallan, president of the Notre termittent association permitted to a 
say of you, that you have honored yourself and your family and your 
Fisher, a classmate of the deceased come the father of a large family. 
.4.1ma Mater by presenting Notre alumnus, comprised this committee. 
"Last year, the silver jubilee of his Dame with this building. No small Many other alumni, including Pres­own graduation, was a happy one both part of our happiness today comes 
ident Voll, and Byron V. Kanaley, for him and his wife, as well as for from the reflected glory in which chairman of the Board of Lay Trus­his jVlma Mater, because this grateful Notre Dame stands because one of tees, attended the funeral and visited alumnus was able to carry out a cher­her engineering graduates has given the Gushing home. 
ished purpose. By a gift of $300,000 proof that the ideals to which she is 
It is hardly necessary here to re­to Notre Dame, he made possible the dedicated are, in his life realities." peat the familiar facts of a life as erection of this splendid building closely entvrined with Notre Dame as which bears and will perpetuate his .A.nd the reply of John Cnshing on that of John Gushing. name—the John F. Gushing, G.E., '06, that occasion is typical of the mod-
Hall of Engineering. Last year, too, est>', the humility, the loyalty, that 
It is car\'ed in stone on the beauti­
has •won him all the immortalitj' that Notre Dame can give. 
"Reverend Father O'Donnell, Fath­er Steiner, Honorahle Guests, Fellow Alumni and Friends: 
"Kno\ring of the array of splendid speaking talent available here today, I came here not to speak, but rather to be in this delightful company, and to enjoy this peaceful atmosphere and these beautiful surroundings. 

"The desire to be associated with successful institutions, to be with the winner, is a very common one. To­day, millions are worrying over the futility of temporary success and are developing a definite trend of thought along lines, aimed at something more permanent or lasting. For an educa­tional institution, permanent or last­ing success is the only kind worthy of mention. 
The Telephone Laboratory 
"The substantial development of the versity. Of greater importance is the after a youthful absence, he com­University of Notre Dame for nearly permanently sound management, in­pleted his public school education, one hundred years is because it was suring continued operation, beyond later attending Nebraska U. for two founded on sound, fimdamental prin­the life of these present buildings, on, years. He was graduated from Notre ciples, and has since continuously been into other new ones; and, in the Dame in 1906 with the degree of conducted by able and honest men; meantime, continue the output of real G.E., and in the fall of the same year by men with sufficient determination university graduates. These few con­he was married to Miss Harriet M. 

and appreciation of these simple ne­
siderations are the reasons for our in­Webber. 
cessities to achieve and attain these 
terest in, and our desire to continue 
more valuable permanent successes. He is survived by Mrs. Gushing and 
our association with this University. 
The business of this university is the seven children, five sons and two 
They are certainly among the reasons 
first and best of all in the land. Its daughters. Three of the boys have 
for the second and third generations 
product is educated young manhood, attended Notre Dame—^Francis, '29; 
graduating from here. They are the 
properly trained to go out and live Paul, '31, and Jerome, '35. A fourth, 
reasons for attracting able men in 
happy and useful lives; to correct Gregory, is a freshman at the Uni­
past years and now to conduct this 
some of our major ills; and leave versity this year. 
school. 
after them, tangible influences that will justify the time and eifort of both He began his work with the Great 
"I firmly believe that the great 

the student and his teacher in acquir-Lakes Dredge & Dock Go., the year 
worth of this Institution to the nation 
fng the present standard of college follo\ving his graduation. Hard work 
is going to be recognized by other 
education. and ability marked his career and 
benefactors, who will far outshadow 
recognition followed until he achieved 
anything that has been done to date." 
"The physical assets of this institu­the presidency of the expanding or­tion, the many fine buildings, are a For pui-poses of biographical rec­ganization in 1926. His executive pleasure and a satisfaction to behold, ord, John Francis Gushing was bom work had brought the company to 
but buildings do not make a uni-in Arapahoe, Neb., in 1882, where. new heights during the years between that date and his death. 
Elected to the honored Board of Lay Trustees by the alumni of the University, Father O'Hara says of that phase of his interest in Notre Dame: ".. . his advice was invalu­able in shaping the financial policies of the University. As a donor of the College of Engineering building, he stood in the foremost ranks of the benefactors of Notre Dame." 
Other personal tributes to Mr. Gushing flowed into the family fi-om his great circle of friends. 
From Frank C. Walker, '09, fel­low Trustee: "I was shocked to learn of the death of John Gushing. He was one of Notre Dame's most repre­sentative men, for whom I had real admiration. We had come to be verj' good friends. . . " 
From Byron Kanaley, '04, Chair­man of the Board: "In the loss of 
The Auditorium of the Engineering Building (Continued on Page 55) 

Father OHara rraises Life of John Cashing 

The Funeral Sermon 
"I am the Resurrection and the Life. He that believeth in Me, al­though he be dead, shall live; and everyone that liveth, and believeth in Me, shall not die forever."—Words taken from the Holy Gospel according to St. John, and quoted in the Mass at which you have just assisted. 
My dear friends: 
In the beautiful liturgy of the Catholic Church, nothing is more sol­emn and nothing is more consoling, than the sacred dramatization of the faith and hope and charity with which she surrounds the passing of a Chris­tian soul. It is true that she puts on the black pall of mourning, but that is out of deference to the riven hearts that are bereaved by death, and it is her reminder that we too "have not here a lasting city, but must look for one to come." It is 
The Lobby of 

true that her chant is softened, but it is the language of petition, of ear­nest prayer, that the inevitable judg­ment of God may be merciful. It is true that her psalms, her lessons, her hymns, are of death, but through them all runs the hope that is borne of resurrection — the Resurrection that conquered death and drew its sting. 
In the beautiful Gospel to which you have listened this morning, the Evangelist tells tenderly the story of the death and resurrection of Laz­arus, the friend for whom Jesus wept. It was only a short time before the death and Resurrection of Christ Himself, and we can see in the delib­erate action of our Divine Lord, His purposeful delay when messengers came to warn Him of the gi-ave con­dition of His friend. His very deliber­
the Engineering Building 
ate questioning of Mary and Martha, and in the circumstantial liturgical demands He made upon His Apostles and the assembled multitude—in all, a two-fold lesson. He chose in this way to prepare the Apostles for the shock of His own death, an event which He had prophesied over and over again to their unbelieving ears; and He chose further to strengthen their beliefs in His own Resurrection. "Unless the grain of wheat falling in­to the ground, die, it bringeth not forth fruit; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit." 
In contemplating our own weakness and lack of understanding, we may take comfort in the fact that our Lord rebuked His Apostles as men of little faith. If the lesson of death is hard for us to understand, so was it for them. Infiltrated as they were with the popular notion of a temporal kingdom for the Messias, they could not understand that death is only the beginning of life. They saw Christ heal the sick, and they looked to Him as the source of perpetual youth. They saw Him open the eyes of the blind to see the wonders of nature, and they thought of wonders of nature as going on forever. -A.nd when they saw Him perform the stupendous mir­acle of raising the dead to life, they saw in it a temporal blessing, and only vaguely did they discern that this stupendous power was used only to quicken their faith in His Word, that death was necessary if they would enter into eternal life. 
Of Martha, the faithful housemaid and the sister of Lazarus, it is record­ed that she expressed the true faith in Christ when, in answer to His question regarding her belief in Him 
The Electrical Laboratory as the Resurrection and the Life, she 
said: "Yea, Lord, I have believed that 
Thou art Christ, the Son of the living 
God," and it was only after her pub­
lic profession of His Divinity that 
Our Ijord gave her the ineifable boon 
of restoring her brother to the happy 
family circle. 
This lesson, my dear friends, is the whole burden of the Gospel story. "We have not here a lasting city, but we look for one to come." "Watch ye and pray, for at what hour you know not, the Son of Man will come." "The hour Cometh wherein all that are in the graves shall hear the voice of the Son of God. And they that have done good things, shall come forth into the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, into the resurrection of judgment." 
Reason supports the voice of rev­elation. Were there no promise of God, the human heart would demand immortality. -A.11 our quest on earth is happiness, yet where do we find it unalloyed? Deep down in our hearts, we seek happiness in everything we do. Yet, in every cup of happiness, there are dregs of misery. 
Another universal quest of the hu­man heart is justice, yet nowhere do we find justice ever fulfilled. It would be cruel of the Author of Life, unspeakably cruel, to implant these universal desires of without the pos­sibility of their ever being fulfilled. We seek happiness from creatures, yet down in our hearts we know that whatever good there is in creatures is but a shadow of the Universal Good, which alone can fill the human heart. We seek justice in creatures, yet we know that with the purest of motives, creatures are disturbed by blindness, by self-love, by passion and prejudice, and full justice can come to us only from the Author of Good. 
Yes, reason demands a life in which all happiness and all justice can be fulfilled, and when to the dictates of reason is added the Divine voice of Revelation, the devout Christian looks upon death with joy, and regards it as the beginning of life. 
And in this same faith, in the hope of a universal resurrection, those who remain behind find their full consola­tion, for they know that there will be an eternal reunion in Heaven, when death shall be no more. 
It is in this faith, my dear friends, that the devout Catholic find his whole philosophy of life. Thirty-three years ago last Thursday, when John was a freshman at Notre Dame, Bishop Spalding of Peoria came to the University to set before the stu­dents the aims and advantages of a Catholic college education. Year after year, he would give to the young men of Notre Dame the rich flower of his culture. He loved the best; he had assimilated the best in his reading and in his experience with men. On that particular day, which was the 10th of October, 1902, he told these 
The Mechanical 

Freshmen, of whom John Gushing was one, that "There are two kinds of men in the world, and always have been—two ideals—the ideal of pleas­ure and the ideal of virtue or power." And then he went on to explain that the ideal of pleasure is the natural ideal, the ideal of the multitude; not only of the multitude of the young, but of the multitude of the nature. To have an easy life, to have a good time, to have a delightful existence, to have all the things that most fasci­nate our senses, this is the ideal of pleasure. 
The other ideal, he said, is the ideal of virtue. "Life has value, not for the pleasure it yields, but for the power it gives us to think highly and do nobly. Life has value chiefly inas­much as it enables us to live more and more, to grow more and more capable in every way, and thus to grow more like to God." 
In the development of his theme, the good Bishop went on to say that it is not so much the intellectual life as it is the moral life that makes us ITuman, that it is the conscience which is good, which is holiness; and that the aim of our college education is to implant deeply in the hearts of our pupils that moral failure is true fail­ure; that the idea of college educa­tion is that he who has received it really is a gentleman. "His father may have been a slave, a pauper; he may have worked under as hard con­ditions as the poor miners in the anthracite region, once you have given that boy a college education in the true sense of the word, you have made a gentleman of him, and the whole world vdU accept him as a gentleman." 
The young John Gushing must have taken these words deeply to heart. Coming as he did from a sound Cath­olic home, where he had been taught that honesty of purpose and integrity of character is everything, it must have cheered his heart to hear the great Bishop of Peoria reaffirm the lessons he had learned at his own fire­side. College for him meant no break with tradition. What it did was con­firm and strengthen in him the moral principles and practices in which he had been grounded from the begin­ning; what it did was make of him a true Christian gentleman. 
The Catholic Church wisely forbids eulogies of the dead. Mindful of St. John's warning that "the just man falls seven times a day," she bids us pray that God's judgment may be merciful. Full of the thought that for every idle word we shall render an account in the Day of Judgment, she prays in her liturgj' that "when the just shall hardly stand secure," the Just Judge shall be mindful of the cup of cold water given in His name. 
It is only propei-, however, that we draw a needful lesson from the life of a man who understood and prac­ticed the two great Commandments of love "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole mind and with thy whole heart and with all thy strength; and Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." We will be bet­ter men if we understand and prac­tice these two Commandments as John Gushing knew and practiced them. John Cushing's charity was no empty humanitarianism. It he loved and cared for his family with a deep, aifectionate love, it was because he loved God first. He taught his child­ren to love virtue, because virtue is the will of God, and not because it would van them the confidence of their fellow-men. He never practiced honesty as the best policy, but as the only policy. He was no less a business man for placing first the business of 
(Continued on Pase 45) 

Drawing Room. 
a 
f I— I K. I P\ '' address from' the campus 


impses ol- an barly Notre Dame t/l^s.i2X^<^J!'^s
Looking upon the accomplishments site of the present Log Chapel over­as a small, thin man about the size 
Dame Campus 
of the late Father Hudson. He Iiad dark grey hair, not wWte, and had sharp penetrating eyes. His figure is described as "symmetrical." In July, 1835 after leaving Notre Dame Father Badin turned the land over to Bishop Simon Brute of Vincennes, who made the first episcopal visita­tion of Notre Dame a few weeks after Father Badin's departure. Bish­op Brute wrote of that visit: 
"On Thursday we arrived at South Bend, a little town beautifully sit­uated on the high banks of the St. Joseph River. It is growing rapidly owing to its many advantages. Cross­ing the river we visited "S. Mary of the Lake,' the mission house of the E.xcellent Mr. Badin who has lately removed to Cincinnati. He had a school there kept by two sisters who have also gone away leaving the place vacant. The 625 acres of land at­tached to it, and the small lake named St. Mary's, make it a most desirable. spot, and one soon I hope to be oc­cupied by some prosperous institu­tion. Rev. Mr. Badin has transferred it to the Bishop on the condition of his assuming the debts, a trifling con­sideration compared with the impor­tance of the place." 
Bishop Brute thought of asking the Jesuit Fathers or the Vincentians to take over the school. The Congrega­tion of Holy Cross had not yet come into existence. Holy Cross was to ar­rive at Notre Dame seven years later, in the person of the young Father Edward Sorin, then just 28 years old. 
"Father Sorin found at Notre Dame in Nov. 1842," according to the late Professor Edwards, "an old log cabin 24' x 40'. The ground floor served as a room for the priest who occasionally visited the mission after the departure of Father Petit in 1888 and the story above for a chapel for the Catholics of South Bend and the neighborhood. To this little cabin had been added some years before a little frame building of two stories somewhat more habitable than the first, in which resided a half-breed with his family who when necessary acted as interpreter between the priest and the savages. Add to this a house 6' x 8' and you have all the buildings then in existence near the lake." The central part of the firet college building later completed in the shape of a double hammer was not finished until 1844, and the wings were not added until 1854. 
An intimate account of the early days in the little community has been given us by Father Alexis Granger one of the first priests at Notre of the past we are inclined to give a blind worship to our ancestors as supermen, and to sit idly in wasteful yearnings for the olden times. Such worship of the past does not render true homage to those who have gone before us. They should be honored because they were human and yet seemed to do things that w^e men of today find so difficult. If we go back more carefully into the past we can find the human side of those who lived before us with failings, and trials, and manful successes. Know­ing these men as real human beings we are more readily brought to imi­tate their good things, as something we can do too, and to avoid their failures as the failures to which we as human beings are most apt. Notre Dame's histoi-y offers us good evi­dence of the inspirational value of the intimate histoiy of good men. The late Knute Rockne once said that' the greatest inspiration to fight that he could give his athletes would be the early histoiy of Notre Dame re­plete as it is with heroic suffering, calamities and spiritual victories. 
Notre Dame commemorates this year the centenary of the end of the first period in her educational his­tory; because in July 1835 Father Badin and his companions, two Sis­ters of Charity from Nazareth, Ken-tuck}', abandoned their orphan asy­lum at Notre Dame. This, the first orphan asylum in Indiana, had been conducted for about a year on the looking St. Marj''s lake. Its founder. Father Stephen Theodore Badin, an­ticipated some of Notre Dame's fight­ing spirit. He was already 65 years 
REV. THOMAS T. MC-VVOY, C.S.C, '25 
old, yet thought nothing of travelling through the western wilderness of In­diana, Illinois, and Ohio, year in and year out, and without any of the modern conveniences of travel to take care of his spiritual children. 
Father Badin has been described by one who saw him in later years. 
The Early Notre 

Dame: "Our tastes were simple like our means. A new vestment a little somewhat better than the rest called the attention of all and was the theme of conversation for some time. As early as 1845, I think, the good Sisters presented to Rev. E. Sorin, then Superior, a set of new copes made by themselves. They were not rich, indeed, the material being mere cotton, and yet they found a place of honor in the hall decorated for the St. Edward's day (celebration). They were considered a great ornament, and won the general admiration. Our students then seemed to share the, feelings of the community. They shared our simple joys, they were, as it were, members of the same family. It is true, at that time we were iso­lated from the world, and hidden as it were in our forests. No railroad then around us. Scarcely a decent public road. We were shut against the outside world. We formed a world by ourselves. 
•"But these happy days had also their sorrows. The loss of (a) dear Brother which happened then was deeply felt by all, as also the defec­tion of some candidates and even novices on whom we had relied per­haps too much. A greater grief is not felt in a family at the death or departure of a beloved son. But this was the beginning of sorrow. The repetition of these sad events made us less sensible at their occurrence, though never Indifferent. We saw, we understood that the work we were engaged in was the work of God and that we were mere instruments in His Hands. But the future appeared sometimes very gloomy. Small re­sources, no great prospect of success, everything at times conspired as it were against our efforts." 
Other accounts tell us that at one time it was necessarj- to unhitch the horses from the plow and to sell them to keep creditors from taking posses­sion of the land. And at about the same time the small community was struck by a plague of cholera. With­in the years 1853 and 1854 nearly 20 members of this small community and several students succumbed to this then dreadful disease, including the beloved Father Francis Cointet at one time vice president of the college and the most famous of the early Holy Cross missionaries. So great was the terror in the small school that the dead were buried at night lest the other students abandon the institu­tion. But the Lord seemed to bless the institution after this trial and within ten years it was found neces­sary to build a new and larger college which was dedicated in 1866. That building stood until the great fire of 1879, and was replaced then by the present administration building. 
It is impossible to tell the whole 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
let us look behind the scenes at the early life of Notre Dame. In the Register of the Council of Professors for 1846 we find several things of in­terest. The facultj' of the school can best be understood from the line-up for the quarterly examinations for the last day of April, 1846. The Register for April 15th of that year says: "The examiners were appointed as follows: Brother Bernard for Read­ing, Mr. Dooner for Grammar and Poetrj', Brother Gatian for History and Geogi-aphy, Mr. O'Leary for Arithmetic, Reverend Father Badin, Father Granger and Mr. Shaw^ for Latin, Mr. Goesse for Greek, Brother Gatian for French, Mr. O'Leary for Book-keeping, Father Cointet for Re­ligion." 
The following decisions of the council, while a bit amusing today, give us added knowledge of the col­ony at Notre Dame. On the same day we find the following decisions: "18th. Brother Gatian complained of Messrs Jas. Whelan & N. Dag­enet's fradulent methods of taking privileges & his (Brother Gatian's) Superiors' neglect in allowing such frauds to remain unpunished & asked whether he should punish for the fast faults they had committed. The Council answered in the negative. 
"19th. Brother Gatian asked how long Mrs. C would be allowed to dictate Rule to Notre Dame du lac University, whereupon the Council answered that Mr. should be treated as any other boy & that he should not be allowed to see his mother except for good conduct." 
In the meeting of the Council of May 19th, 1846 were made, among other rules, the following: 
"4th. Mr. Campau shall be told not to whip the boys at the music class." 
"10. Father Granger will be re­quested not to let parents see their children before they have been re­\'iewed by the Prefect of Discipline 
November, 1935 

in order to see whether they are 
clean." 
"14th. The apprentices will wear 

frocks and not coats." 
For June 3rd, 1846 we find the 

following decisions of the Council. 
"1 . For the future the pupils shall 

take baths twice a week, on Tues­
day and Friday. They will get up at 
five o'clock & then go to the study-
room for their morning prayers; & 
after that they shall take their baths 
in two companies. They shall not 
assist at Mass on those days." In the 
Meeting of October-1, 1846 is an in­
teresting resolution that probably had 
much to do with the plan of studies 
at Notre Dame. 
"28th (Plan of Studies) Whereas 

our plan cannot be followed to ad­
vantage in .A.merica, as it is directly 
opposed to American views, Mr. 
Shawe, shall be requested to write to 
Georgetown, St. Louis & St. Mary's, 
Emmetsburg, to have their plans of 
Studies that we may compare them 
with ours & form a plan for our­
selves." 
On Oct. 7th, 1846 we find the fol­' lowing decisions of the Council. "1 . 
Mr. G. Campau shall not learn Greek 
but History. 2. The preparatory 
course shall learn Geography, if books 
can be found." 
Perhaps no better report on early Notre Dame can be had than the let­ters of the early students of Notre Dame, and among these none was better qualified than the young Neal Gillespie, later Father Gillespie, edi­tor of the Ave Maria, and the brother of Sister M. Angela of St. Mary's. Writing to his sister on Sep­tember 2, 1849 and stating that school had begun the day before, Sat­urday, September 1, he added: 
"I will study this year Greek, 

Latin, French, Algebra, Geometry, 
philosophy and chemistry." He prom­
ised a longer letter when he could 
write about his trip to Niles and 
about the old settler near the school 
and added a postscript "I am getting 
(Continued on Page 46) 

history of Notre Dame in such a short time as we have this evening. But 
The Hat and Mustache Era 

A Letter from the President of the University 
TO THE ALUMNI: 
It has been some time since the University has set before you a statement of its needs. If such a statement appears now, let it not be considered as the opening gun of a drive. The intention is to keep the Alumni informed on developments and plans, and to lay before them spe­cific needs. In some of these projects one or another will be specifically interested; in certain of them, some alum­nus may wish to cooperate, either directly or indirectly. Alany an alumnus has an opportunity to interest some person of means in a particular work of the University. 
The present mind of the Local Council is that thei-e should be no further extension of residence facilities. The University has grown rapidly, as you know, and our desire is to consolidate these gains by raising scholarship to the highest possible standards and selecting the best prospective candidates for admission. This means that if a new residence hall is built .from time to time it will be intended to replace some old residence hall. There is one exception to this statement. A residence hall for gi-adu­ate students is needed. The present policy of the Univer­sity is to encourage graduate students to live off campus if they do not care to submit to undergraduate rules. 
The facilities in several departments must be 
increased, and more class-room space must be provided. 
The development of work in various departments in the 
College of Science has made it necessary to sacrifice for 
laboratory purposes one class-room after another. In 
Bacteriology, you are more or less familiar with the work 
of Professor Eeyniers whose announcement of a tech­
nique for producing germ-free animals was widely publi­
cized last spring. This work opens up an entirely new 
and non-competitive field of research, and additional 
facilities for this must be provided very shortly. 
Through the very unselfish work of two instructors and two graduate assistants. Professors Collins and Coomes, and Messi-s. Kenefake and Hiegel, the room reserved in the Cushing Engineering Hall for high tension experiments has been furnished with full equipment for a fine field of research. Because these men were unselfish enough to give their whole summer to manual labor, the equipment of this room has cost approximately 10% of what it would have cost had commercial equipment been purchased. The University has spent about $3,000 on the equipment for this laboi-atory, and has expended §1500 additional for new equipment for the closely related lab­oratory of Electrical Engineering. 
The Chemistry Department has grown verj' rapidly and additional laboratoiy space is much needed. During the summer the old post office was moved to the rear of Chemistry Hall, where it will house the Chemistry librarj'. This will provide safer quarters for valuable books, and ^viU enable the department to install a laboratory in the library room vacated. 
There are four priests preparing to give graduate courses in Physics and Higher Mathematics. They are pursuing studies in the California Institute of Technology, University of Chicago, Johns Hopkins University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. They must have additional laboratory facilities when they return to Notre Dame, and a great deal of new equipment will be neces­sary for their work. 
The Department of Aeronautical Engineering opened in September, with an enrollment of some 30 students. It is adequately housed at present in the Engineering building, but as the course develops more room will be needed, and it will be necessary for the College of Arts and Letters to surrender some of the class-rooms it is now using in the Engineering building. 
The Department of Medieval Studies is now function­
ing with a faculty of seven. Most of the students who 
are pursuing studies in this department have at least some 
financial assistance from the University. Fellowships for 
this work are urgently needed; and funds are desired for 
expanding the library facilities. 
A library fund of ?14,256.20 has been established by 
gifts from various donors, but the Interest on this fund is 
overdrawn several thousand dollars at the present time. 
Fellowships are needed for graduate students in every 
department in which graduate work is given. The Uni­
versity is offering the Master's degree in the departments 
of Philosophy, English, Classics, Modem Language, Eco­
nomics, Politics, Sociology, Secondary Education, Music, 
Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, and Metal­
lurgy. The Doctorate is offered in Organic Chemistry, 
Physical Chemistry, Systematic Botany, and Metallurgy. 
The Rockne Memorial building should be erected soon. It is a matter of much regret that this project has been so long delayed, but a long series of studies has convinced the council that a proper memorial building will cost at least $600,000 and with funds on hand for this purpose of only $150,000 it has not been possible to begin work on the building. 
Following is a statement of present needs as seen by the University Council: 
1.
 Funds for the completion of the Rockne Memorial Building —$450,000 

2.
 A residence hall for graduate students 200,000 

3.
 A residence hall to supplant the temporary Freshman Hall - 200,000 

4.
 A Biology Building — 200,000 

5.
 A building for the production of germ-free guinea pigs, with research medical and bacteriological laboratories 16,000 

6.
 A series of additional research buildings of this type, as the work develops (each).— 16,000 

7.
 A research director for each of the various units of bacteriological research (each) 3,000 

8.
 Two graduate assistants for each unit of bacteriological research (each) 750 

9.
 Thirty Fellowships in other departments of graduate study (each). 750 

10.
 Books for the Department of Biology 3,000 

11.
 A Fine Arts Building 400,000 

12.
 Laboratory equipment for testing paintings 7,500 

13.
 Books for the Art Department 2,000 

14.
 Collections of slides and films for .\rt Dept. 200 

15.
 New easels and model stand 150 

16.
 Etching press 300 

17.
 Wood block press 100 

18.
 Additional volumes for Architectural library 10,000 

19.
 Slides for Department of Architecture 4,000 

20.
 Photographs for Department of Architecture 1,000 

21.
 Models for Department of Architecture 500 (sig.) Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 




Symplifying Our System of Spelling BY FRANCIS E. MORAN. "27. 
Associate Professor of English 

Among the fascinating problems for the amateur in language is that of sim])l:ficd spelling, a problem that is given current interes;., especially for those in the Chicago area, by the missionaiy attempts of the Chicago Tribune to effect some reform. The grotesque spellings of the ordinary college student give the college in­structor an interest in anything that promises some relief. One sometimes wonder wiio is doing the world's spelling. Yet in an age when to be condemned, a project has merely to be termed "red," one risks his re­spectable standing when one advo­cates anything so iconoclastic as "spelling reform." Indeed, the \vrath excited by proposals of this kind is explicable only by the linguistic ig­norance of the general public. "It seems to excite in many minds on both sides of the ocean," said Calvin Thomas many years ago, "a psychical reaction which is imfavorable to sober discussion. It calls up images of a dear mother-tongue mutilated and made hideous by soulless van­dals. ... " To retain an equable temper, the conservative reader need only remember how innocuous and in­effective this puny effort is bound to be. 
It is commonplace to point out that in an age of general scientific prog­ress, English spelling is deplorably unscientific. A language made up of so many elements, borrowed as needed from all nations, will neces­sarily have manifold irregularities, almost impossible to reduce to rules. But this does not mean that amelioi-a­tion is impossible, that we must be content with an instrument that jus­tifies the linguage scholar G. K. Mc­Knight in declaring that it "may de­sen'e the veneration that belongs to the antique, but unphonetic, irreg­ular, and illogical as it is, modem English spelling does not merit the name orthography, which is made up of two Greek words meaning 'correct writing'." Lounsbury even goes so far as to term it "the most vicious to be found in any cultivated language that ever existed" and maintains that "it is in no sense a guide to pronun­ciation, which is its only proper of­fice." 
That the foregoing statements are not merely excited exaggerations but the sober truth must be somewhat evident if we look at only the pronunciation of -ough in though, through, trough, rough, drought, or the ei in counterfeit, receive, weigh, foreigru Examples of such irregu­larities could be multiplied almost in­definitely. Under these conditions, correct spelling is largely a feat of memory; logic, analogj', and phonetic training ser\'e only to mislead. As a result of such inefficiency, it has been estimated that a child wastes from one to two years of school life, and the national loss in printing costs, as far back as 1900, was estimated at ?40,­000,000. A sti-ange and disturbing fact is that with spelling such a hur-
THE AUTHOR 
Ally of the W. G. N. 

die, there has never been a time when so much social and business stigma has attached to incorrect spelling. Even Alexander Pope, who resolved to make correctness his forte, would on his spelling by present day stand­ards be considered an illiterate. 
The ordinary person has probably never given much thought to the sys­tem to which he pays such venera­tion. He is altogether likely to as­sociate it with such august names as Chaucer, Shakespeare, Milton, and others of that galaxj-. But these men, worthy as they are of our trib­ute, had pitiably little to do with de­termining our spelling, as may be seen by examining their texts. The humiliating fact is that the printers of England, many of them imported Dutchmen, mainly determined our orthography down to the time of Samuel Johnson, who set his seal up­on it to perpetuate it ivith little change to our own day. And John­son, with all his profound learning, was altogether too dogmatic and de­ficient in linguistic knowledge, to jus­tify the authority he has wielded. 
To consider the problem of spell­ing reform intelligently, one must keep in mind the relation of the writ­ten to the spoken word. Spoken lan­guage is the living language, the pri­mary basis of language study. It came before the written word and is an oral symbol of thought and feel­ing. Writing, then, is but a symbol of a symbol, a mechanical attempt to imitate the spoken word. In its early stages it took the forms successively of pictures, alphabet, words, and sen­tences, each stage marking an ad­vance in accuracy, flexibility, and ef­ficiency, but at best it is a more or less inaccurate and artificial tran­scription. Unfortunately the true re­lation of the forms has frequently been lost sight of, especially in Amer­ica, the written word being made the norm and pronunciation made to fol­low it. One elementary grammar book even insists that mountain and foitn­tain be pronounced as spelled, reverse English with a vengeance. H. C. Wyld warns: "The most unreliable of all guides to the pronunciation of an English word is its spelling, and noth­ing is more ludicrous than a theoreti­cal pronunciation based solely upon it." 
A second significant fact to be re­membered is that all living languages are in a process of change, in vocabu­lary, grammar, and pronunciation. It is obvious enough that one learns to pronounce through imitation, but one often fails to realize that the imita­tion is seldom perfect, that people are shooting at a center which they never quite hit, the result being that over a long period the center gradually shifts, the general pronunciation differing at least slightly from gen­eration to generation. 
With these t\vo laws in mind one can turn specifically to English spell­ing and spelling reform. In medieval England, before the invention of printing, when written communica­tion in the mother-tongue was rare, the spelling was mostly phonetic. At that time our now silent final e's were pronounced, as were the initial k in knight and final guttural gh in though. Then came the printing press and thereafter the spelling fell into the hands of the printers, who wished not only for uniformity but also for permanency. Since that time, while the spoken language has gradually changed, the spelling has tended to crystallise, the changes be­ing relatively few. The result was inevitable. Little by little the gap between the once phonetic spelling and the changing pronunciation yawned wider and wider, until today in many words the relation is extre­mely tenuous. 
Scholars, realizing the anomalous situation, have from time to time tried to restore the proper relation, but with indifferent success. We find an English monk, Orm by name, mak­ing such an attempt as far back as 1200 in a rather dreary poem entitled Ormulum. But the more nearly con­temporary efforts are more interest­ing. After the wrong-headed but last­ing work of Samuel Johnson, the first vigorous effort to shake off the fetters was made by an American, Noah Webster. It is interesting to note 
(Continued on Page 47) 


The President's Page 
 HIS page, fi'om month to month, will attempt to deal with the news or problems of the Association with which the officers are most concerned. Sometimes, as this time, several topics will be treated. Suggestions for the page from interested members will be sincerely appreciated. 
EVERY alumnus must be deeply grieved, as he was deeply shocked, by the death of John F. Gushing, C.E., 06. 
But with that grief must be mingled inspiration. John Gushing was a Notre Dame man in every phase of that ideal. 
In the memories of his personal life — Christianity, ability, personality of the most pleasing kind, friendship, loyalty—^he has left a priceless heritage. 
In his business, which he built to new heights, he has left an en\'iable mark. 
In his family, to whom he was able to give more than ordinary opportunities, in his four sons who have already enjoyed the benefits of his Alma Mater, he has left a fine, Ghristian, flesh-and-blood monument eloouent of his life. 
In his gift to Notre Dame—the John F. Gushing, G.E., '06, Hall of Engineering—he has left a beautiful struc­ture that in itself is a substantial ti-ibute to his many good qualities and works. But in the boys who will come year after year from its departments, endowed not only with the technical skill which John Gushing possessed, but with the same Christian ideals that guided its use, he has, like Moses and his rod, struck a rock from which will flow for years to come the ever-fresh waters of youth and idealism. 
Yo u will recall that the late Father Charles L. O'Don­nell described the average football crowd as either directly or indirectly the result of the alumni and stu­dents of the colleges participating. In other words, games are not the heterogeneous public spectacle often assumed. 
Hotel proprietors, however, seem to ignore this con­nection between the schools involved, the teams, the alumni, and the crowds. They assume that football crowds "just growed." That they will continue to come, and that abuses imposed on one crowd will be compen­sated by a new and uninitiated crowd the following year. 
Where hotel competition prevails, as in the metropol­itan areas, and sometimes where experienced hotel oper­ators prevail, the violent upheaval of the law of supply and demand is not followed by all the known forms of gouging the public. 
The smart hotel man realizes that the sevei-al football Saturdays represent intensified, but by no means entire, patronage of the crowds • of those days. Alumni pay frequent visits on business or pleasure to their schools during the rest of the year. Parents of students likewise are frequent patrons. School and individual alumni not infrequently guide meetings of various kinds to a favored hotel, or can equally detour such desirable business of the quiet seasons from a particular hostelry. Students and their social functions require considerable hotel back­ground during the year. 
Columbus, Ohio, in the experience of Notre Dame alumni, has not been one of these smart, cooperative centers. 
The Alumni Association, through me, has registered official protest. Your cooperation in personally objecting to the tactics of the Columbus hotel operators will make the protest much more effective. 
The Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio has resorted to the practice invoked by the Notre Dame Clnb of the St. Joseph Valley some years ago, of soliciting rooms in private homes available at nominal charge. 
The Association congratulates the Columbus alumni on this gesture for our own alumni welfare, and trusts that the hotel situation as presented this season will not be encountered again. 
I'RESIDENTS of the -Association—and I speak from a gi-owing appreciation of my predecessors and a fear for my successoi-s more than from any personal ambition or illusion—are busy men. They are enlisted, theoretically at least, to administer the welfare of the Alumni Associa­tion. They are drafted, in fact, for a job whose only remunei-ation, aside from the great honor and tribute of friendship, is the satisfaction of work done for Notre Dame and for you who select us. 
How discouraging it is then, when we take time, that all of us could certainly use to personal advantage, to propose projects to you, as individuals or Club officers or Glass officere, and meet a blanket of silence. 
I appreciate that you, too, are busy. I know that many of the things I propose to you are not possible, or feasible, for you or your Club or your Class. 
But how much it would work for unity, and its by­product strength, if you would simply take time to decline, to disagree, to agree, to express something, so that the final action or inaction does not represent only the presidential personal opinion. 
There is, I am told, great improvement in this direc­tion. But my early experience, spurred on by my hopes for the -Association's work this year, make me suggest even more attention to this phase of my work. 
1 H.A.VE just had the pleasure of seeing Father O'Hara's 
statement of the needs of the University and I commend 
it to each of you for most careful and earnest consider­
ation. You will note that all of the emphasis is placed 
upon i-aising scholarship to the highest possible stand­
ards and whatever progress is made toward this objective 
will reflect, with increasing attention, upon all of her 
students alike. Perhaps, in the light of the greatly 
expanded campus with which most of us are familiar, the new picture is a bit awing, but nevertheless a sound and sensible one. Perhaps, through us if not from us, will come the realization of these actually conservative needs of Notre Dame. Other schools—^Princeton notably. North­western and Slichigan nearby. Harvard, Cornell and others constantly—are riding the rising tide of recovery to new academic heights. Notre Dame, with a glorious heritage and a unique opportunity cannot afford to neg­lect the effort. 
(Sig.) BERNARD J. VOLL, '17. 
HUNDREDS OF ALUMNI 
N.D. WAR VETERANS HAVE LEGION 
AHEND Pin GAME 


REUNION AT ST. LOUIS CONVENTION 
Notre Dame alumni pioneered again in sponsoring, throug h the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis, the first American Legion college alumni re­union. The reunion dinner -was held in conjunction •with the Legion Con­vention on Tuesday evening, Sept. 24, in the Crystal Room of the Hotel Jefferson. 
A half hundred of the colorful con­tingent of Notre Dame men, -whose record is so gallant a part of the his­tory of Notre Dame and the World War, attended this first reunion. 
Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, senior 

chaplain vtith the A.E.F., former 
president of the University, was the 
principal speaker and guest of honor. 
Father Walsh's Notre Dame reminis­
cences of the World War fill volumes, 
and the summary of a few of these 
episodes provided the highlight of the 
evening. 
Joseph B. McGljTin, East St. Louis, 

was toastmaster. 
Among the other speakers were 

Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the 
University, himself a veteran; and 
John L. Corley, one of the veteran 
St. Louis alumni. 
Stories, the Registrar reports, were the order of the evening. Some of them antedated the World War. Colonel Hoynes of Civil War and legal fame was mentioned of course; then there was Christopher C. Fitz­gerald, now of Havana, who planted the Stars and Stripes on one of Spain's blockhouses in the War of 1898, and who was Major Fitzgerald when Father Walsh met him on a France-bound transport. There was the unnamed Notre Dame man who took the flag of truce from the Gov­ernor's palace in Santiago and sent it to the Universitj' where it now rests in the museum. There was Col. Sweeney, whose exploits in the French Foreign Legion, Moroccan air service, Madero rebellion, and other military, history, make fiction seem calm by comparison. There were the tales of the prodigious feats of Joe Gargan, now calm by a New England fireside; of Dan McGlynn, whose legal talents and activities reflect little of the dramatic color of the day he re­ceived his degree in the trenches of the battlefield from Father Walsh; of the late Bishop George Knnigan, one of the most loved of the chaplains. 
Well, as the reports said, the stor­ies were but nicely started at the end of a long evening. It will take Legion convention and reunion after re­union to exhaust the tales of the then proportionately large group of Notre Dame men who fought in all branches of the war and whose record in each combined to make a whole which is eloquently expressed by the little Me­
morial Door on the East side of Sa­
cred Heart Church. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis, 

under president Bob Hellrung, co­
operated with the national Associa­
tion and with the veterans in provid­
ing registration facilities and spon­
soring the dinner. 
This was the first. Notre Dame's records of the men who served in the World War are not complete. It is hoped, however, that from time to time, such reunions will bring to­gether this gallant group in growing numbers so that the memory of what they did will be kept vivid, for them, and for the growing tradition that they are forming in the history of the University. 
N. y. CLUB TO HAVE PERMANENT QUARTERS 
By J. Norbert Gelson, Secretary 
A general meeting of the club was 

held in the Midston House (old Fra­
ternity Club), 38th Street and Mad­
ison Ave., New York City, on Thurs­
day, October 10. 
The members present that evening unanimously vote d that the club should secure permanent headquar­ters at the Midston House. Bills for dues have been mailed out and as soon as sufficient returns are made we hope to sign the lease. 
The New York club enrolled its first scholarship %Wnner at Notre Dame this past September. The win­ner, Arthur Hennessey of Rockville Centre, N. Y., will have his tuition paid for the four years that he is at school. 
On Saturday, October 26, the Bal­timore and Ohio Railroad ran the "Notre Dame Club Special" to the Notre Dame-Navj' game in Baltimore. Reservations were received for 300 alumni and their friends. 
The annual dinner dance to be held after the Army game will take place on the roof of the Hotel Pennsyl­vania, Seventh Avenue and 33rd Street, New York City. The tickets will be sold for 53.25 per person. 
The first combined retreat of the New York and New Jersey Clubs was held in the Loyola House of Retreats in Morristown, N. J. Both clubs were well represented and most of the free periods were occupied in the real old fashioned N.D. style of gath­ering in one of the rooms and having a "session." 
Weekly luncheons are still held on Tuesday at Hurley's Restaurant, 144 Fulton Street, between Broadway and Nassau St., New York City. 
The Alumni Office "spotters" re­

ported the following as among the 
hundreds of alumni who were at the 
.Pittsburgh game: 
Al Shipacasse, '30, Jim Deely, '30, Vince Goulet, '26, John Neeson, '03, Bob Tyler, '29, Dan Foley, '23, Ros­well Leahy, '28, Daniel P. Murphy, '95, Regis Fallon, ex. '16, William R. Ryan, '11, Leo J. Vogel, '17, R. A. Black, '22, Joe Byrne, '15, Dr. Maurice Keady, '19. 
Rev. Bourke Motsett, '31, Bill Mot-sett, '34, Ernie Hechinger, '32, Spaul­ding Slevin, '00, Joe Langton, '28, Rev. Robert Gallagher, '22, Malcolm Knaus, '26, Clayton Leroux, '27, Clarence (Oonie) Donovan, '31, George Guettler, '27, Hugh Boyle, '24, William Cotter, '13, E. J. Bren­gartner, '11, James R. Record, '01, James S. Devlin, '10, Harry Miller, '10. 
Tom Oakes, '31, Tom Cannon, '33, Jim Reams, '34, Mart Downey, '31, John Cahill, '33, Sherwood Dixon, '20, John Begley, '34, Chariie Woods, '34, John Venables, '34. 
Hugh.Devore, '34, Fred Weidner, '35, Norman Duke, '34, Jim Moscow, '34, Mike Kinney, '31, Mike Seyfrit, '23, Judge John W. Eggeman, '00, George Maypole, '03, Eugene Hines, '23, Jerry Holland, '25, Dick Halpin, '27. 
George Demetrio, '35, Tom Thomp­son, '35, Ralph Heger, '2a, Marce Verbiest, ex. '17, Henry Wurzer, '25, Lincoln Wurzer, '35, Francis Wallace, '23, Gene Ho^vrey, '32, Byron Kana­ley, '04, John P. Murphy, '12, Pat Crowley, '33, Ed Vyzral, '34, Nick Vairo, '34, Ralph Ehr, '33, Tom Mahon, '28, Donald Wise, '33. 
Fabian Johnston, '12, Tim Galvin, '16, Prank Gahin, '23, John Wallace, '27, Bill Fox, '20, Rip Miller, '25 Don Miller, '25, Tom La Londe, '35. 
A Vanderbilt alumnus observed his 50th graduation anniversary by giv­ing his alma mater $100,000. The Class of 1910 at Harvard, observed its silver jubilee reunion by giving the University an equal amount. 
See what Class activity builds for the school? 
Princeton has taken the initiative in holding that Tiger by announcing a $7,750,000 campaign. Four million will erect a new Library. ?1,500,000 is for scholarships to insure the prop­er type of student for Princeton, and $2,250,000 will endow the School of Public and International Affairs. 
This is not at all the first of Prince­ton's campaigns, and in the others alumni participation has been out­standing. 
CIVIG TESTIMONIAL 


'OLD TIMERS" PLAN GATHERING FOR 
FOR ALBANY BROTHERS 

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA WEEK-END 
The four Brothers of Holy Cross 

who have joined the staff of Vin­
centian Institute were welcomed to 
Albany, New York, on October 9, at 
a large banquet sponsored by the 
local Chamber of Commerce. Father 
John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of 
the University, was the chief speaker. 
Said the Knickerbocker Press, in 
part, in reporting the meeting: 
"Besides Father O'Hara the speak­ers were Mayor Thacher; Austin R. Coulson, superintendent of Albany public schools; Dr. A. R. Brubacher, president of State College for Teachers; William Otis Hotchkiss, president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; Dr. Edward EUery, dean of the faculty of Union College; the Rev. Brother John Baptist, head of the group of brothers of the Holy Cross in Albany; Dr. Frank P. Graves, president of the University of the State of New York and state commissioner of education, and the Rev. William R. Charles, pastor of St. Vincent's Church and principal of Vincentian Institute. 
"Former Judge Edward N. Schei­berling, chairman of the public meetings committee of the C. of C, presided and William E. Fitzsim­mons, president of the chamber, was toastmaster. The Rev. James P. Hanrahan, superintendent of schools in the Catholic Diocese of Albany, gave the invocation. 
"Others at the speakers' table who were called upon to take bows were Wendell Nelson, personnel super­
•^•isor of the General Electric Com­pany; Judge John T. Loughran of the Court of Appeals; Former Mayor James R. Watt, Dean William Mansfield of Albany College of Phar­macy, Dr. Thomas Ordway, dean of Albany Medical College, and Leo F. Brennan, grand knight of Albany Council, Knights of Columbus. . . . 
"Football received only passing mention. Just before Father O'Hara began his address, Mr. Fitzsimmons requested him to explain the 'Fight­ing Irish' name, when the lineup cards show such names as Carideo, Schwartz, Pilney, Fromhart, Wojci­kowski and Shakespeare. 
" 'Because,' answere d Father O'Hara, 'Notre Dame is an AU-Amer­ican institution.'" 
"In a brief history of the univer­sity, he declared 'its charter is the most liberal granted to any denom­inational-school in the United States. A Methodist minister or a Jewish rabbi might be elected to the presi­dency.' 
" 'Concern for character training' he continued, 'is not in any sense a monopoly of the Catholic schools. 
JOHN W . EGGEMAN, '00 
Chairman of Old Tijners 

But, on the other hand, I think you v.-ill agree with me that, particularly in the past few decades, too many educators have abdicated their trust in this regard.' 
" 'In Catholic education, the train­ing of the mind and the heart, of the intellect and the will, go hand in hand, but the Catholic Church places the will first in the order of impor­tance. We want brains, but if there is a choice between brains and virtue, we choose virtue.'" 
The C.S.C. Brothers now in -Al­bany are: Brother John Baptist, the local Superior; Brothe r Eymard, Brothe r La^\•rence Justinian and Brother Joel. 
The following Notre Dame men at­tended the dinner: John Campbell, Harold Canavan, Francis X. Disney, Thomas DoUard, Edward J. Eckert, Byron J. Farley, Thomas Farley, Frank C. Hayes, Leonard F. Horan, Michael Leding, Walter O'Brien, Lawrence O'Neil, Richard Walsh, Clare L. Touhey. 
ARMY GAME SELL-OUT 

Bulletin: The Athletic Office an­nounced on October 28 that all ticket* had been told for the Notre Dame-Army game in New York on Novem­ber 16. 
Old Timers' Day or a reunion of Notre Dame Monogram Men, will be held in connection with the Notre Dame-Southern California game, ,at Notre Dame, on November 23. 
Old Timers' Day is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Monogram Club, and it is planned to bring a certain group of old time Monogram Men to­gether at a Notre Dame football game each year. Those invited to this Old Timers' Day are those who were awarded monograms, in all branches of sport, in the period from 1887 to 1900. 
On behalf of the officers and mem­bers of the Notre Dame Monogram Club I extend to all monogram men a cordial invitation to attend this year's meeting of Old Timers on No­vember 22 and 23. 
Hon. John W. Eggeman, Monogram Man, '96-'00, 1201 Old First Bank Building, Fort Wayne, Indiana, is chairman of a group of Old Timers for this year's reunion. 
The program in connection with Old Timers' Day will be as follows: 
Friday, Nov. 22. Afternoon: Reg­istration of Old Timers in the Alum­ni Office. Old Timers' dinner in the dining hall, guests of the University. Evening: Attendance at the student rally in the gjrmnasium or a place to be designated. -Attendance at smoker of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in South Bend. Guests of the Club. 
Saturday, Nov. 23. Old Timers' luncheon in the dining hall, guests of the University. Introduction of Old Timers before the game at the Sta­dium. Witness the Notre Dame-Southern California game from a special section reserved for Old Timers. 
Saturday, Nov. 23. Old Timers' Monogram Men does not go back further than 1887, we realize that members of Notre Dame athletic teams previous to 1887 will be over­looked by this invitation. We, there­fore, kindly ask that if you know of such men who should be invited that you send their names to Judge Egge­man or myself, (sig.) Edward J. Meehan, president, 
Notre Dame Monogram Club c/o South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Indiana. 
INSURANCE OPPORTUNIJy 

Indiana alumni interested in in­surance affiliation with the Lincoln National Life may secure interviews with Mr. O. Prank Helvie, Sheriand Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
By DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S.PETR1TZ, "32 ATHLETIC PUBLICITy 
ATHLETICS 
Layden's Lads Take First Four Games 
Far be it from us to detract from one of football's greatest victories and a brilliant page in Notre Dame football history. But in calm retro­spect, we can not help looking at the 9to 6 victory over Pittsburgh as one which was won more on fight than on efficiency. The game had its high spots, its plays which will never be forgotten by any one who saw them. And ifs hardly a detraction to say that a team which was supposed to lose won on sheer fight. 
No, we don't want to take anything away from this great-hearted 1935 team, but it is only fair to the players and coaches to point out to alumni who may have missed the point in their elation that this 1935 eleven is still not a finished football team. 
The players and coaches already know this. The former •(vill not be­come overconfident, as long as the latter are around. For there were missed blocks and poor tackles—al­beit there were some great blocks and vicious, hard, sure tackles made Oct. 19 against a team which had blanked Notre Dame three years running and which was favored to make it four straight. There were mistakes of de­fensive play which came veiy close to proving disastrous. They were mis­takes of overanxiety, of men strain­ing to make the kill coming up too fast to the line of scrimmage, guess­ing -BTong, and letting the play go inside of or outside of them. 
Five gruelling games remain on this 1935 schedule. Navy, defeated by a' 7 to 6 score by Yale, will be fighting to redeem itself — and the players know this. Ohio State's jug­gernaut hopes to •jvin national cham­pionship honors by beating Notre Dame. Northwestern is reported to 
COACH LAYDEN 

be in a highly dangerous mood, deter­mined to win its first victory over Notre Dame since 1901. Army is Army. Southern California, they say, 
•ivillbe verj' hard to beat by the end of this season. 
But there is a brighter side to the picture. We shall never forget the inspired play of an inexperienced, battling Notre Dame line which was out%veighed all the way, as it out-charged one of football's fastest-charging forward walls. Wally From-hart, senior quarterback, who wasn't among the 1933 lettermen, climaxed his Horatio Alger tale against Pitt. Not only had he won the varsity post late last season, but in this game he called his plays wisely, inspired his team on offense and defense, and turned in one of the greatest defen­sive plays ever seen when he fought off three Pitt blockers along the right sidelines and finally, when help came up from behind, he jammed them to the sidelines so that the fleet Hubert Randour might be tackled from be­hind. 
No one who saw the game will for­get the prodi^ous punt of Bill Shake­speare's which traveled from behind his goal line to the Pitt 10-yard line to change the entire complexion of the game. 
Fred Carideo's alertness in reco%'­ering a ball which had struck From­hart's leg on its way back from cen­ter, and his subsequent gain of 14 yards for first down on the Pitt 10­yard line will be recalled for years to come. In two more plays he had planted the ball on the 4-yard line. Then Bill Shakespeare and his mates collaborated on the old Notre Dame off-tackle play for the tying touch­down. Jim Martin, Wally Fromhart, and Fred Carideo poured through the hole opened by Frank Kopczak and Marty Peters. Wayne Millner, left end, came over and mowed down the safety man. Shakespeare followed his interference, stopped, sped to his left and scored without being touched by a Panther claw. 
The winning place kick by Marty Peters deserves a volume by itself. Here are some facts on the kick: it was the first Peters had tried for Notre Dame, except after touchdown. It was the first field goal made by Notre Dame (and, as far as we know, the first attempted) since Paul Cast­ner kicked two in the 48 to 0 victory over Eutgers in 1921. It was the first to win a Notre Dame game since 
SHAKESPEARE CABIDEO FROMHAET 
LAYDEN 

Joe Brandy beat W. & J. 3 to 0 in 1917. It was kicked from the 26­yard line with Fromhart holding the ball, which was resting on the 18­yard line when Fromhart ordered the play. If Fromhart had not called for this play, Quarterback George Mori­arty was ready to go in with instruc­tions to order it. The kick would probably have been good from the 50-yard line. It landed high up in the stands. Referee Frank Lane de­layed raising his arms to signal its success because he said "It started out straight as a die, then veered sharply to the right. Just when it looked like it wouldn't go over, some­thing pulled the ball back, and it sailed over, a yard to the good." A mix-up sent the ball back before the agreed signal, but Fromhart turned just as it arrived, and planted it firmly while Peters swung his trusty right leg. The fan who captured the ball was loathe to part with it, but a fast-thinking policeman said he could get it after the game at the dressing room. Since Peters was act­ing captain, the ball was rightfully his in case of victory, so Coach Lay-den appeased the fan with another ball, autographed by Peters—with his right hand, not foot. The kick was estimated to have traveled further than any of Peters' kickoffs. 
The game ran Notre Dame's new victoi-y string to seven straight. The first three games were won without great opposition from Kansas, Car­negie Tech, and Wisconsin. Carideo led the way in the Kansas 28 to 7 victory in two touchdowns, averag­ing 4.1 yards from scrimmage, a mark surpassed, incidentally, by both Mike Layden and Bib Wilke. Lay-den made 55 yards in 11 plays. 
Carnegie Tech's sturdy defense held Notre Dame off for an entire half and its ofifense hammered its way deep into Notre Dame tenitory so that Coleman Kopcsak might kick a field goal from placement for a 3 to 0 lead. Notre Dame came back and went to work with two scoring marches which Bill Shakespeare and Bob Wilke climaxed, respectively, with touchdown runs. The second march went for 93 yards without in­terruption to make it 14 to 3. 
The Irish took Wisconsin in stride, 27 to 0, and Layden took advantage of what was perhaps the last oppor­tunity of the season to use his sopho­mores and reserves extensively. Shake­speare and Joe O'Neill, left end, 
scored on passes in the first and sec­ond periods. Carideo and Andy Pil­ney scored on runs, Pilney's for 40 yards, in the third period. 
Thinking you might be interested in the total and average yardage made by the backs to date, we have compiled the figures as follows: 
Player Attempts Net jroin Av. gain 
, 3S 165 4 1/3 Shakespeare . , 46 164 3 1p Layden 106 i)l;4 Wojcihovski 107 3 Pilney 17 76 4 1/2 Wilke . 19 66 3 1;2 Gleason _ 10 26 2.6 Miller 22 4.4 Mazziotti . 13 2.6 Elser ___ 10 2 
1 l;3 

The cross-country team got off to a flying start with a 25 to 30 victory over Pittsburgh the morning of the Pitt football game. After the worst season in years, the Irish are appar­ently on their way back to their proper place in this sport, although a schedule calling for meets with Mich­igan State, Illinois, and Wisocnsin, as well as the C.I.C. meet, does not in­dicate an undefeated team. 
The "B" team in football is off to a fine start with victories over Ni­agara University, 25 to 12, and Oua­chita college, 25 to 0. It has games remaining with the Purdue "B" and two with the Illinois "B" squads. 


GUSHING FUNERAL SERMON 
(Continued from Page 36) 

his salvation. He was no respecter of persons, but he had a great love for his fellow-man as his brother in God. 
I see a beautiful significance in the fact that he died on the Feast of the Most Holy Rosary. The Rosary is the prayer that kept the faith for Ireland in "the dark days," as they called them in Ireland (I might better call them "the dark centuries," when priests were proscribed and Mass was said only furtively and in hedgerows or in caves.) It was the Rosary, the favorite prayer of the Blessed Mother of God, that kept the faith alive In Ireland then stronger than it has ever been in any other country in the world. 
In coming to Notre Dame, John Gushing dedicated himself anew and in a special way to this Blessed Moth­er of God. The contemplation of the joys and sorrows and glories in the life of Mary accompanied the joys and sorrows and glories of his own life. This contemplation kept him from dejection and discouragement in sorrow, just as it kept him humble and honest and home-loving in his success. And when a few years ago, he expressed in a letter to Father Charles O'Donnell, his desire to show appreciation of a small favor that was done him, when the University tided him over financial difliculties to allow him to iinish his college course, he said that he wanted to show this appreciation by enabling other boys to secure their technical training un­der the standard of Our Lady. It was princely appreciation, and it showed true nobility of soul. We may be sure that the Blessed Lady he honored in this way has reserved a special place in Heaven for her knightly son. 
May his soul and the souls of all the faithful departed rest in peace. 
From the Comellian Council Bull­etin: "A fund for the maintenance and repair of University buildings is a unique provision in the will of the late . . . ." 
Ed. Note: See what a bequest pro­gram through N.D. lawyers could do? 
LAUTAK MiCHUTA PFEFFEKLE MiLLNER 
AN EARLIER NOTRE DAME 
(Continued from Page 38) 

out at the elbows and knees." Young Neal had his troubles as will be seen from a letter written Dec. 14, 1850. "After Mass on Wednesday I heard to my great astonishment that I had insulted publicly, insulted Father Su­perior, all the fathers and professors, Mr. Girac, all the boys, those of the band especially, even the Brothers and seminarians, and upon having na­turally as a matter of course lost my temper. Now could you guess, could you form the slightest idea of the manner in which I committed this heinous offense? I will not leave you to conjecture but as I said before will lay the whole matter before you. I, by not squawking my clarinet, caused the squawking of several to stop, besides that, I prevented all those mentioned above from hearing the squawking of a fiddles and the bull-frog notes of sundry brass in­struments. Goodness! how often I am mistaken — I thought I had ren­dered a sei"\'ice to the ears, ner\-es and piety of those whom, I found out afterwards, I had so scandalously of­fended by doing what I thought would be a senace. Now that is the amount of the alfair — because I did not play, the others could not, -and of course, they were insulted according to the theoiy of the affair, but not one among the players felt himself insulted, unless, that most irreproach­able and easily to be insulted Mon­sieur Girac felt offended because he had no opportunity to show his skill on the fiddle — or another worthy might have felt himself slighted be­cause he was stopped from making most villainous bass notes on his Orphyclyde. 
"Now you see that the insult was allegedly on highl y metaphysical grounds, for none could actually be insulted at a person because he saved their ears from hearing bad music, and their pietj' from being distracted by the same. But now let me tell you the reason I did not play and why I caused all this rumpus. -A.t the beginning of the Mass we played one time — it sounded miserably as the church was cold and the instru­ments and players also. .A.t the end of the piece Mr. Girac — just and im­partial Monsieur — who leads the band came to where I was and pointed with his fiddle stick to my piece — and said nothing to anybody ^ which meant the same thing as if he had said to all that I was the whole cause — but others make worse mis­takes than I did. They should then bear part of the blame. He blamed me at the time, none but me after the Mass admitted that others had made mistakes. Had he done so in church-I would have continued to play, although the music was no music at all." 
On Feb. 27, 1851 Neal gives his account of the first George Washing­ton Birthday celebration. 
"Although we live up in this out of the way place, we heard, some weeks ago that there once lived a great man in the U. States, and that his birthday was the 22nd of Feb. & as we heard that everybody else cele­brated the day, we resolved to do the same. So Mr. Girac with his family prepared some songs, and got their instruments in order. The PVench class hunted up Moliere and took hold of part of one of his comedies. The.English classes prepared a few speeches, and the £t. Aloysius So­ciety appointed some of its members to 'explode,' and en masse take a hold on the parts of King Henry IV, which could be played without female char­acters. On the 22nd people began coming from S. Bend, Mishawaka and Niles and by the time we began, the large study room was crowded. About 5 \^ o'clock all the people went away, verj' well satisfied, I believe; although they did not hear a word of Latin or Greek, in any of the speeches, and although these speeches were made by stupid college chaps, and not by some of the big politicians who some­times hold forth here." 
A letter of November 5, 1850 is veiy interesting because it gives a hand drawn plan of the university grounds of that day \inth explana­tions. According to that plan, the college buildings stood approximately where the present main building stands, and the old church on the site of the present one. The build­ing was three stories high and the ground floor included; 1st the study room, secondly, a corridor leading from the entrance to the stairs at the rear, thirdly a museum, fourthly an office or reception room, and, fifthly a room for the secretary's office. In front of the building was a large yard enclosed with a picket fence and dotted with locust an d sycamore trees. Behind the college building was the kitchen, the apprentices' yard and beyond that the stables and workhouse. The infirmary was to the rear and between the church and the college building. Where Sorin and Walsh halls now stand were the or­chards, and where Washington and Science Halls stand were gardens with peach trees around the walks. The sisters' house was the present Mission House. 
In another letter to his sister, young Gillespie gives ad\ice to a friend of the family who wanted to come to the manual training school, famous among the works of the early University: 
"The principal thing at the manual labor school is to make good work­men, good Catholic workmen, and to ' give them, of course, a good common education. 'If John, then, wishes to learn a trade and to live by it after-
EDITORS ARE NAMED FOR PUBLICATIONS 
John S. Moran, of New York City, is editor of the 1935-36 Scholastic. His managing editor is Joseph Pren­dergast. Ware, Mass. Moran and Prendergast are seniors in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters. 
A pair of Arts and Letters juniors, Cyril Stroker, of Waterbury, Conn., and James Waldron, of Trenton, N.J., are co-sports editors. Paul Foley, Grosse Point, Mich., assisted by Rob­ert Grogan, Terre Haute, Ind., is news-editor. Andrew Hufnagel, a senior from Eidgewood, Long Island, 
N. Y., conducts "The Week," a col­umn devoted to campus happenings and gossip. Art Editor William Ellis, of Brookline, Mass., besides drawing a weekly sports cartoon also does car­icatures for the "Man About the Campus" feature. 
DeLancey C. Davis, Schenectady, 

N. Y., editor of the Dome, the Univer­sity annual, will be aided by George Feeley, Scranton, Pa., as managing editor, while Maurice Tombragel, New York City, is in charge of Scrip, the literary quarterly. 
The Catalyzer, the campus publica­tion devoted to news of the chemistry world, is edited by Paul J. Doyle, of Chicago. 
wards, the manual labor school will 
-be precisely the place for him. He can take his choice of a trade — the trades now taught are the carpenter, shoemaking, tailor , blacksmithing, baker and tanner. He can apply him­self to it as a means to gain a liveli­hood — and at the same time he will be taught his duties as a Catholic and receive an education suitable for his occupation. But if he wishes to have the trade merely as a secondary ob­ject and education as the primary — that is if he wishes to work in order to educate himself — the College would be a much better place." 
There are countless stories that could be told of the life in that little world called Notre Dame, in those early days. The good manual train­ing school, now but a tradition which the university of today has forgotten, was once a very great source of pub­lic good. Its members not only learned trades, but often acquired ideals which led them out of the trades to success in business and pro­fessional lilies. The valiant effort of the professors of Notre Dame to im­part Latin, Greek, philosophy and music to the young American met with varied success. But in one thing were these pioneers successful and that was in building up the spirit of Notre Dame which has always boasted in its most loved song that it will win over odds great and small. 
November, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 

SIMPLIFIED SPELLING 
(Continued from Page 40) 

that America has taken the lead in spelling reform in the modem period and has carried it farthest, frequent­ly to the disgust of his English breth­ren. As H. L. Mencken remarks, "There is something inordinately offensive to English purists in the very thought of taking lessons from this side of the water, particularly in the mother-tongue." 
In his dictionary of 1806 Webster, inspired partly by an American zeal for independence from England even in language, advocated sweeping re­forms, such as the dropping of silent letters, final and otherwise, the u in labour, favour, the a in thread, the 6 in thumb, the use of only the single g in wagon (English: waggon), the dropping of the k from frolick, mu-sick, physick, the use of transposed e and r in fibre, centre, etc. Many of Webster's recommendations were adopted in that period of aggressive independence, though a few fell by the wayside. One wonders whether in this day of perfected propaganda it would be worthwhile to foster an Anglo-American animosity in the in­terests of a more simple spelling. 
Other efforts were made later in the century, but the most deteriliined and promising attempt was that which begun with the Simplified Spelling Board in 1906, endowed by Andrew Carnegie with ?15,000 a year and supported by the prestige of President Theodore Roosevelt, not to speak of a host of leading scholars over the country. This board issued three hundred revised spellings. The Standard Dictionary of 1906 lent powerful support by listing 3500 simplified forms recommended some years before by the American Philo­logical Association. But now the countr>- was aroused; this nonsense had gone far enough, thought practi­cal America. The popular resentment found its spearhead in the derisive cartoons of the daily papers the re­formers blanched, and once again 
inertia and ignorance had gloriously vindicated themselves. 
With this consistent record of de­feat behind them, the spelling reform­ers, it would seem, should gracefully give over their attempts. Only the most sanguine reformer can take the optimistic view. And yet what is it that we fight and deride? Let us look at a few of the spellings adopted by the Tribune. One finds agast for the standard aghast. A look into the New English Dictionary will prove the first form the earlier and the more historically authentic, the latter hav­ing come about probably through a mistaken etymology and become gen­eral only after 1700. Aile for aisle. .4gain the shorter form is the earlier and like agast has the advantage of being without the silent letter. The first instance of aisle recorded in the 
N. E. D. is 1807. Crum for crumb. The word derives from the Old Eng­lish cruma, the merely graphic 6 appearing first in the 16th century and not becoming general until the end of the 18th century or a little later. Fantom for phantom. The word coming into English from the French was fantosme, later fantom. By 1621 the Latin form from which the word ultimately derived gave us phantom. Derth for dearth. The former is once more the earlier and purer form, from the Middle English derthe. These are but a few of the eighty words with which the Tribune is experimenting, but they are enough to prove that the reforms are not arbitrary mutilations, but sound and scientific modifications in the interest of logic and efficiency. 
To date, however, the Tribune re­
mains almost alone among those mak­
ing practical use of simplified spell­
ing. Recently, knowing what a power­
ful influence publishers had wielded 
in the past, the writer sounded out 
several of the leading publishing 
houses as to the practicability of a 
concerted effort to reform our spell­
ing, by simplifying a few words every 
year. Most of the publishers ex­
pressed at least some sympathy with 
the idea of reform, though most 
apparently, considered the whole 
thing a dead issue. One suggested 
that it could best be done by the daily 
press, which being more ephemeral, 
need not be so conservative as book publishers. Meanwhile nothing is done; the gap yawns wider yearly; and spelling becomes for each genera­tion of children more of an enigma and specter. It is the writer's opin­ion that there is only one effective way to improve this situation and a number of others connected with the mother-tongue. At present there are numerous courses in both high school and college in writing and literature; there are in the whole country astonishingly few courses in linguis­tic science. We learn considerable about everything but the language we speak. What to do about it? Writ­ing to your congressman will proba­bly be unavailing, but one might do much by insidiously worming his way on to a village or city board of edu­cation. 
McMeel Named University Doctor 
Dr. James E. McMeel, of South Bend, is the new University physician, succeeding Dr. Francis J. Powers, '94, who died on September 17 after serving Notre Dame through two scores of years. Dr. McMeel was added to the Notre Dame medical staff a year ago as assistant to Dr. Powers. 
Dr. McMeel's assistant at Notre Dame will be Dr. Paul E. Haley of South Bend. Both the doctors will continue with their private practice in the city. 
EARLY EUCHARISTIC CONGRESS AT N. D. 
The seventh American national Eucharistic Congress in Cleveland re­called to mind that the first such gathering in the United States was held at the University of Notre Dame in 1894. 
The first American Eucharistic Congress assembled at Notre Dame on August 7, 1894. One hundred and fifty priests, several bishops and abbots conducted the ceremonies. From early dawn until the hour set for the pontifical high Mass, the Holy Sacrifice was offered up in the college church alone no less than 100 times. 
The Scholastic files of 1894 carried an account part of which reads: 
"The procession move d along under the trees and through the dark­ening twilight between two hosts of fully 5,000 persons. There were in lines, about 200 priests, preceded by 100 acolytes with candles, and 300 flower girls from churches in South Bend. The brothers and sisters of Holy Cross followed the canopy under which the Blessed Sacrament was carried by the Most Kev. A. J. Kade­macher, bishop of the diocese, while the St. Hedwige and St. Stanislaus' bands played inspiring music. 
"The Pontifical requiem Mass dos­ing the exercises at the convention took place at 7 a.m. Wednesday, Sep­tember 8. At the end of the cere­monies. Bishop Rademacher imparted solemn absolution, while the clergy and attending prelates stood around the catafalque with lighted tapers." 
SHAUGHNESSy IS HONORED 
In recognition of many years of service to Canadian athletics, foot­ball, hockey and baseball, Frank Shaughnessy, '06, manager of the Montreal Royals of the International League, has received from Right Honorable R. B. Bennett, prime min­ister of Canada, a silver tray en­graved with the following inscription: 
"To Francis Joseph Shaughnessy from the Prime Minister of Canada in recognition of his keen sportsman­ship and especially of his honest ef­forts throughout his career to in­spire the youth of Canada toward clean living and clear thinking. 
"This trophy is presented on the occasion of the Montreal Royals win­ning the pennant of the International League in 1935 under his fine leader­ship." 
Such an award, it is explained in press clippings, is unique in the an­nals of Canadian sports. Never be­fore has an individual in the Domin­ion's athletics been singled out for such an honor. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1935 
CAMPUS ACTIVITIES 
By John J> Lechner, '36 
APPEAL The Sophomores in Momssey hall were just loafing around. Friday night, no dates, but there was the radio and the bull-session on which to fall back. Suddenly— ".. . We interrupt our program for a few moments to broadcast this appeal fi-om St. Joseph's hospital. A charitj' patient is dying and a blood transfusion is needed immediately. Persons wishing to donate their blood should rush to the hospital at once. 
We now continue. . . " "Come on gang." Five from Morrissey hall were on 
their way. Vernon Tetrault, of Springfield, Mass., in the lead. But halls more closely situated to the cab stand at the entrance of the Univer­sity also heard the plea. When the Morrissey contingent reached the hos­pital thirteen other Notre Dame men were in the throng of sixtj' that clamored about the good Sister in charge of the reception desk. Te­trault, however, worked his way through the gi-oup and approached the Sister. 
"I'm a tj'pe four," he said crisply, "can you use me?" "This way, please." The patient lived, and, an hour or so later Tetrault and seventeen other Men of Notre Dame made their way slowly back towards the campus. The scholastic -and athletic Spirit of Notre Dame isn't on a shakj' foun­dation. 
SOCIAL NOTES 
It looks like a gi-eat year for the 
lads who, if they were at the age 
when arch ladies inquire, "And what, 
my little man, do you want to be 
when you grow up?" would answer 
bravely, "I wanna be like Fred As­
taire." Ted Fio-Rito arrived in town 
the night of the Kansas game and set 
a high standard for future bands. 
Right at his heels came the Soph Co­
tillion with Ben Pollock doing a great 
job. St. Marj''s is contributing its 
share as usual and the various classes 
are going to sponsor football dances 
after each home game. 
Then, also, if Joe Petritz hasn't already exposed you to the fact through your home town newspapers, we musn't forget to mention that Wayne Millner, varsity left end, won a dance contest last winter, and, ac­cording to his partners, this year is better than ever. Not to be outdone, Don Elser, the demon fullback, has been mounting the rostrum and vo­calizing to orchestral accompaniment at the Palais Royale with only slight provocation. 
With Elser and Millner as a nu­cleus, it would seem as if the annual "Monogram Absurdities" scheduled for next spring, couldn't possibly miss. 
HOWAED CUSACK 
President of the Senior Class 
POWER OF PUBLICITY 
For some reason of other this chap John Blank fascinates us. You re­member John, of course. He was the Freshman we mentioned last month who, in endeavoring to get permission to have his classes changed, charged on Dean Campbell with a letter of recommendation. Well, anJ^vay, we decided if we camped on John's trail long enough he'd give us material for another paragraph. After shadowing John for many wearj' days by crawl­ing on our stomach we were rewarded by the following incident: 
Here's the picture: Professor Paul Fenlon hurrying towards his room bestowing benign benedictions as he wades through current and former pupils. John Blank and a friend pass the aforementioned Fenlon. 
THOMAS MUEPHY 
President of the S-A.C. 
"Who's that?" asked John curi­
ously. "That's Fenlon, the English prof." "Fenlon? Oh, yeah, I remember. 
He's the guy that All-American Jack Robinson named a race horse after." 
* 
ROMANCE No matter what anyone says we live in a materialistic age. In the golden days of romance the loved one always came first, to be with her meant everything, but not any more. The Law Club was holding its second meeting of the year, its purpose to decide upon a date for the annual Law Ball. The night before the Southern California game was sug­gested. One of the barristers bounded to his feet. "Let's make it later," he urged. "If we have the dance that night it will mean I'll have to take my girl to the game next day and then I won't be able to sell football programs." 
NAMES PLUS FACTS Arnold Lunn, the noted English author and critic, was the first of the special lecturers on the University's fall program to speak in Washington hall. . . His subjects, "The Joy of Controversy" and "Science and the Supernatural". . . The two guest pro­fessors, Ireland's Desmond Fitz­gerald, playwTight, statesman, and philosopher, and England's Christo­pher Hollis, historian, money-expert, and biographer, besides conducting regular classes, lecture each week to the general student body. . . Paul Sartoretto, graduate student from Rock Springs, Wyo., broke his arm when he fell from a wooden horse in the gymnasium. . . John V. Coyne, Chicago, installed as grand-knight of the local K. of C. . . Max Conrad to direct a Flying Club in conjunction with the course in aeronautical en­gineering initiated this year. . . All residence halls are crowded even though there are only 100 or so more students than last year. . . Reason: A drop-off in oif-campus enrollment. . . Dr. James E. McMeel selected to suc­ceed Dr. Francis Powers, who died re­cently after many years of service to Notre Dame, as University physician. .. . The sidewalk program, which calls for a plaza between Alumni hall and the Law building almost completed... Andy Hufnagel, Ridgewood, N. Y., selected as head cheerleader. . . Soft­ball and touch-football popular dur­ing the afternoons. . . Study and bed after supper . . . 

November, 1935 The Notre Dame Alumnus 49 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
OFFICERS OF THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 


1935-1936 

Honorary President Albert F. Zahm, '83 Director _ Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94 President _ Bernard J. VoU, '17 Director Fred L. Steers, '11 Fii-st Vice-President Albert J. Galen, '96 Director James E. Deery, '10 Second Vice-President George N. Shuster, '15 Director Don P. O'Keefe, '03 Secretary-Treasurer James E. Armstrong, '25 Director (ex-ofBcio) Timothy P.Galvin, '16 Assistant Secretary William R. Dooley, '26 Director (one-year) Thomas G. Proctor, '35 

GOVERNORS 

District 1—John W. Schiniller, 'OD. Mishawaka. Ind. District 12—Hugh M. Manevney, '25, Memphis, Tenn. District 2—James A. Ronan,*26, Chicaco, III. District 13—Lawrence Hennessey, '27, ViclKburir. Miss. District 3—Henry F. Barnliart. '23. Lima. Ohio District 14—William Grady. '17, Dallas, Texas District 4—^Uenry Lauerman. *23. Menominee. Mich. District 15—John M. Ducan," '27, Kansas City, Mo. District 5—John T. HicEins. '23. Detroit, Mich. District 16—Sherwood Dixon. '20, Dixon, 111. District 6—Aumist G. Desch, '23, Philadelphia, Pa. District 17—George A. McGee, '01, Minot, No. Dakota District 7—Edward A. Fallon. '26. New York City District 18—Robert Fox, '01, Denver, Colo. District 8—Gerard Ashe. '22. Kochester, N. Y. District 19—Thomas H. Hearn. '15. Los Anseles, Calif. District 9—John Robinson, '28, 'Watcrburj-, Conn. District 20—E. P. Carville, "09, Elko. Nev. District 10—Frank A. Reese. '25, Raleigh, North Carolina District 21—Waller M. Daly. '04. Portland. Ore. 
District II—Matthew O'Brien. '31. Tampa. Fla. District 22 (Foreign)—Julius Arce. '99, Buenos Aires, Argentine, S.A. 
AKRON take office at a meeting in May called .Activitie s for the local alumni 
Joseph H. Kraker, '29, I776-24th St., Cuy­for that specific pui-pose. Under the group will probably open with a get­
ahoga Falls, Ohio, President. Claude H. 

Homing. '29. 133 N. Highland Ave., present constitution officers would be together dinner, possibly including Akron, Secrctarj*. elected in November, just when the wives, etc., at the new Savarin Cafe, winter activities are in full swing. Buffalo. We are now working on a 
ARIZONA The May election would allow for ad­program that will include a good 
James D. Barry, '97, Consolidated Bank 
BIdg., Tucson, President. Steven Rebeil. 

vantageous planning of a year's pro­speaker. '25, 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Secretary. gram. 
BOB MOORE and TOM KENNY, :|e Treasurer Allen Johnson ai-rived both N.D. grads, have been in Con-ARKANSAS 

Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner. '14. Hope. Ark.. late due to the fact that Mrs. John­neaut, Ohio, for the past several 
President. Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln months where they have been work­
son was out for dinner and Allen 
Ave., Little Rock. Ark., Secretary. 

• had to care for the baby. Mr. John­ing on marine construction. They son reported a fairly substantial sum expect to return to Buffalo sometime BENGAL 
in the treasurj'. in December. BILL MEASER, who 
Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C.. '02. The next meeting is to be held at 
Dacca, Bengal, India. President, Rev. J. graduated in June, has accepted a 
J, Hencssey. C.S.C., '02, Dacca. Bengal, position with the Bank of Williams-
India, Secretary. Buchanan. Monsieur Desenberg and ville. VAL KLAIBER, also a June 
* Signer Landsman will arrange the BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) meeting. 
grad, has been connected with the 
Wm. H. Downey, '28. 1615 Oak St.. Niles. Audubon Golf club for the summer. 
Mich., President. Malcolm K. Hatfield. No beer or pretzels were served as 
Did you know that MORG-A.N 
'29, 2305 Niles Ave.. St. Joseph, Mich.. Alderman Cook and -A.ttorney Lands­
Secretary. SHEEDY, June '35, has entered the 
man have reformed. 
The Notre Dame Club of Berrien Louisiana State university, where he County met at the Four Flags Hotel, MALCOLM HATFIELD, Secretary. will study sugar refining. This sum­Niles, on Monday, October 14. mer, outside of my regular work of 
Those attending were President writing copy for the paper, I have 

BOSTON 
directed publicity for the New -Akron 
WILLIAM DOWNEY, Secretary 
Jarlath (Jack) Slattcry. '21, 226 L. St., MALCOLM HATFIELD, JOH N So. Boston, Mass., President. James Ska-
Motor Speedway which opened here han, '31, 5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass., Sec­last Labor Day. And I might add, WEBER, THOMAS GRIMES, 
retary. 

with unpardonable pride, that the TOOLE, IRVING HALLETT, PHIL­JAMES KENNEY, EUGENE 0'­
crowds have been swell. BUFFALO IP LANDSMAN. THOMAS F-A.R-
Robert Moore, '30, 2574 Main St.. Presi­BOB GALLOWAY, Silver Creek REL, SHERIDAN COOK, M-A.URICE dent. Kn'crt Measer. '34. The Amherst 
lawyer who attended N.D., has been 
KRINOWITZ, BILL DOOLEY, BILL Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sts.. Willinmsville. 
N. Y.. Secretarj'. getting plenty of publicity in Arg^us' DESENBERG, CLARENCE HESS, column. So This Is Buffalo, in the 
The first annual farewell party, 

JOHN JAUCH and ALLEN JOHN­Times, because of his many wise­
held at the Club Mayfair, Sept. 12, 
SON. As the first order of business cracks and stories. 
(because of the closing of the Al-
came it was decided that a dance be BOB MEASER, 
hambra due to cold weather) was a
held following the Notre Dame-North­Secretary. 
much bigger success than was an­tion passed unanimously. 
western game on November 9. Mo­
ticipated. The crowd was tremen­dous, with a good representation from 
It was also voted that the secretary CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-IIL) circularize the paid membership •with both the alumni and campus groups. William L. Travis. '27. 803 Lloyd Bids., Everyone said that it was by far the Hammond, Ind., President. Tnd J. Sol-
a proposal to change the constitution man, Jr.. '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond. 
best summer party ever held. Ind.. Secretary. 
so as to elect officers and have them 
CAPITOL DISTRICT (New York) 
Clare L. Tonhey, '26, 601-02 National Sav­ings Bank Bids-, Albany. N. Y., President Edward J. Eckert, '33, 5 Lawnridge Ave., Albany, N. Y., Secretary. 
* 

CHICAGO 
John W. Scallan, '25, 79 E. Adams St., President Al C. Stepan. '31, 365 E. Illi­nois St, Secretary. 
* 

CINCINNATI 
Albert Castellini, '24, 1001 Atlas Bids., President Georce Aug, '33, 4335 EidRe­view Ave., Secretary. 
Probably by this time you are -won­

dering whether the Cincy Club is still 
in existence. I'd say very much so. 
AL C.A.STELLINI wrote you about 

"Billy Sullivan Day" at the Cincin­
nati ball park. That really was a 
great occasion. The members of our 
Club presented Billy with a very 
handsome traveling bag. Billy has 
made quite a name for himself by his 
ability to play most everj' position on 
the team. 
The fellows around here are all pepped up about the football team. Most everyone is going up to Colum­bus for the Ohio State game; they are torn between state pride and school loyalty, but don't think the latter doesn't predominate. 
We've been having some very in­teresting meetings lately, accounting for the marked increase in attend­ance. JOSEPH MEYER, former Uni­versity mentor spoke at the last meet­ing. Dick Bray, nationally famous sports official, spoke at a previous meeting. I suppose by this time you know that CLEM CROWE succeeded Joe Meyer as Xavier Coach. 
GEORGE AUG, Secretarj'. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Thomas E. Ferguson, '26, 37 Windsor St, Thompsonville, Conn., President Francis 
D. Ahem, '29, 1 Webster St, Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 

CLEVELAND 
Clayton Leroux, '27, 3356 Dalcford Road. 
Cleveland Hpts., Ohio. President Otis 
Winchester. '29. 2968 Meadpwbrook Blvd, 
Cleveland Hgts., Ohio, Secretary. 

Since I wrote you last quite a few things have taken place in this city of ours. On September 7 we had a Clam Bake at the Horseshoe Tavern. We were honored with the presence of BILL CERNEY who gave us the set-up on this year's football sched­ule. Ball games, races and other events took up the majority of the afternoon, and the evening was spent in a good old bull session. All credit for a successful party goes to SY MATHEWS, JOHN COLLHSfS, ART GALLAGHER, RALPH HLTLLER, PAT CANNY, JOHN VIKTORYN and the genial chairman, DAN S.AJtt-MON. 
A week later the students held their last summer dance at the West-lake Hotel. This was also a fine party and a number of the alumni were present. Even -4L NANOVIC and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JOHN QUINN came o-at of their 
shells. 
Last week during the Eucharistic 

Congress we had the pleasure of hav­
ing in our midst FATHER J. P. O'­
H.4.RA, C.S.C, president of the Uni-
V e r s i t y , and FATHER VINCENT 
MOONEY, C.S.C. They addressed 
sectional meetings at the Congress. 
On Tuesday evening FRED JOYCE 
had an informal gathering in honor 
of Father O'Hara. 
This town just finished a primary 

campaign and one of our members, 
R.A.Y T. MILLER, won the primary run-off for mayor. 
D.AN DUFFY is also running for re-election for municipal judge. At the present time I do not know of any other members who are running for office, but if there are any, we wish them all the luck in the world. 
PHIL GEOHEGON and ED GOUGH are conected with the Cen­tral United Bank here in Cleveland. NORM GREENEY is back in the pro­fessional field. GEORGE HAHN is engaged in shipping blankets to the belligerent nations of Europe. ROC­CO PERONE is the last of the mem­bers to become married.' He was married a few mornings ago. JOHN RUPPEL has become associated with 
U. S. Trucking Corp., which outfit his brother is also connected with. 
ED SEWARD has gone back for his second year in the Seminary here in Cleveland. FRANK SEWAED is connected with the local amateur playhouse. BOB TISCHLER is to be married Saturday, October 6. ED BLATT is now connected with Shell Petroleum Products. Our amiable \-ice-president, CHET BRUMLEVE, has just changed his place of resi­dence somewhere in Lakewood. JOHN BUTLER was one of the chief speakers for Ray Miller in his pri­mary fight. JIM CALLAHAN is now a buyer with the largest department store in Ohio, The May Co. MIKE CRAWFORB has gone back to St. Louis for his last year in medical school. 
Tliis is all the news that I have at present, Jim, except to tell you that we have begun plans for our Christmas dance. It is to be held Saturday, December 28, and CLETE SCHNEIDER is the general chairman of the affair. He is at present busy picking his committees and of this you will have more news a little later. . If I do run across anything of im­portance later on, I wHl shoot it on to you. 
OTIS WINCHESTER, 
Secretary. 



DAYTON 
Amos Clay, '15, Union Trust Bldg., Day­
ton, President Andrew A. Aman. Jr., '30, 
210 Lexington A-^-e., Dayton, Secretary. 

ANDY AMAN sent a note on Oc­tober 5 to say that the Dayton Club was planning a joint smoker with the 
November, 1935 

Ohio State Dayton alumni for the evening of October 30. A clipping enclosed carried the news of Andy's forthcoming marriage. After Novem­ber 1, Mrs. Aman and he were to be at home at 629 Forest .A.ve., Dayton. 
* 

DALLAS 
James P. Swift, '24, 1202 Southwestern Life Bldg., Dallas, President Francis A. McCuUough, '30, 917 First National Bank Bldg., Dallas, Secretary. 

DENVER 
Robert Dick, '29, 930 Grant St, President Harry Lawrence. '29, 1951 Lawrence St, Secretary. 

DES MOINES 
James C. Shaw, '22, 307 Equitable Bldg., President F. M. Wonderlin, '29, 302 Hubbell Bldg., Secretary. 

DETROIT 
Willard Crotty. '29, 830 Calvert Ave., Pres­ident Robert Baty, '30, 2961 Taylor Ave., Secretary. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
James D. Hayes, '17, 4612 Morgan Drive, Chevy Chase, Md.. President J. Thomas Gan-er. '32. 1210 Perry St, N. E., Wash­ington, D. C, Secretary. 

EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wysor Bldg., Muncie, Ind., President Alvis E. Granger, e-t. "31, 617 S. JeiTerson St , Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 

At the last meeting, held Tuesday, October 1, the members met at the Pleasant View farm, south of Mun­cie for dinner. After dinner a busi­ness meeting was held in the law offices of Halligan & Cannon, in Mun­cie. The next meeting will be held Tuesday, November 5, at the Hotel Hartford, in Hartford City. It will be a dinner meeting. 
Our Club now has a membership of about 35 members. We meet once a month and to date have had very successful meetings. 
AL GRANGER, Secretarj'. 

EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethlehem, Presi­dent Ernest L. Wlhelm, '27, New Jer­sey Zinc Co., Research Dept, Palmerton, Secretary. 

ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Richard D. Daley, '17. Erie Daily 'Hmes, President. Thomas Barber. '24, 416 New­man St., Secretary. 

FAIRFIELD COUNTY (Connecticut) 
James Murphy, '22. 611 Security Bids.. Bridgeport, Conn., President. Joseph E. Russo, '32, 166 Housh Ave., Bridscport. Conn., Secretary. 

FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Donnelly P. McDonald. '12, Peoples Trust & Savings Co., President Edward S. Sul­livan, '24, 125 K Sutteniield St, Secretary. 

President D. P. McDONALD has felt the rising tide of Club activity and has summoned his officers for a program planning. Members, accord­ing to Secretary ED SULLIVAN, are ripe for the resulting campaign. 
The ALUMNUS married the wrong DeWald to the right girl in October, and while no doubt the most friendly-family feeling prevails between the three parties concerned, it is no "de­sign for living," and MAURICE, '33, is the fortunate bridegroom, while GEORGE is merely the fortunate brother-in-law. 
CLIFF WARD is the local Bris­bane, Ed writes, turning out a col­umn in the Neivs-Sentinel, labeled Abracadabra. He also dips into the advertising and special feature de­partments. 
The Club president is sharing in another renaissance, as president of the Regional Bank Group, the bank­ers of eight counties. 
C. BYRON HAYES, prosecuting attorney for Allen County, expresses his varied interests as president of theBrownson Literary Club of the Ft. Wayne C.Y.O. The same organiza­tion enlists the interests of TOM Mc-KIERNAN, FRANK and HARRY HOGAN, HENRY HASLEY, CLIFF WARD, FRANK CORBETT an d FRED SCHOPPMAN. Fred is also Grand Knight of the Ft. Waj-ne Council, while Henry Hasley, who formerly occupied that post, is Dis­trict Deputy. 
All of which lumps itself into a live Notre Dame group from which ought easily to come a powerful Club, as well as an active one. 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Robert O'ColIaghan, ex. *16, Gobble Ka­
tional Bank, Ironwood, President. Fran­
cis J. Vukovich, '35, Ridge St., Iron­
wood, Mich., Secretary. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
George E. Ludwi^, '25, 32S Glenhaven Ave., N. W., President. Raymond J. Bo­nini, '27, 607 Atwood, N. E., Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Harold L. Londo, '24, City Engineers' Of­fice, City Hall, President. Levi A. Geni­csse. '24, 510 Minahan BIdg., Secretary. 
* 

HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums, .'86. 338 S. Second St.. Presi­dent Marc A. Fiehrer. '27, 701 Rentsch­ler Bldff., Secretarj*. 
* 

HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wii.) 
Norm.in Bartholomew, '15, 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich., President. Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette, Wis., Secretary. 
HOUSTON 
M. K Walter, '14 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton, President. Thomas F. Green Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary. 
A letter from the peppy TOMUDf GREEN, Conroe, Texas, reports that the Houscton Club entertained CHRISTY FLANAGAN, and JOHN­NY "CLIPPER" SMITH, when the two brought their Duquesne team to play Rice. Weather which brought the Rice freshmen to the game in pa­jamas, didn't help the visiting team. Tommy says. A number of the Notre Dame alumni, and Creighton alumni, were guests of Mr. John R. Young, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
father of the brilliant young Notre Dame football player who died a year ago, when he entertained MARCHY SCHWARTZ, and JOHN POLISKY, Notre Dame coaches of Creighton's eleven. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Thomas Jones, '04, 211 K McCarty St., President. Michael R. Fox, '34. 3942 N. Penn St, Secretary. 
A slip in the Alumni Office routine prevented the following fine letter from MIKE FOX from getting in the October issue: 
You missed a swell party when you didn't get to make our golf tourna­ment. We held it this year at the Broadmoor Country Club and had a turnout of 65, one of the largest crowds we have ever had. MIKE O'CONNOR won the tournament for the second consecutive year with other honors going to PAUL JOHN­SON of Kokomo, PAT MANION, JERRY SHINE, JIM BOWEN, JOHN HARRINGTON. JOHN ROCAP used the most strokes to complete 18 holes, and BOB MOYNAHAN used the most strokes on one hole. We served a buffet dinner followed by talks by CHET GRANT, JAKE KLINE and a few stories by PAT MANION. Chet gave us the outline of the football team for this year, making sure to tell us not to expect too much. He also showed us pic­tures of all the highlights of last year's games. These pictures really met with favor of all the boys at the meeting. 
We have been having monthly luncheons every fourth Monday. To­day we decided to make it a weekly affair with the hope of building up a more active alumni club. We have a good time at these meetings and I feel we can build up a good sized luncheon club if every one will help. WALTER HOUPPERT was there to­day. He is working for the Home Owners Loan in Detroit and was in to\vn for the day. BOB HILGER was also in town from Columbus, Indi­ana, and reported his family doing well. 
There isn't much news about the Indianapolis fellows. JOE McNA-MARA was married to the secretarj' of the Mayor. I was startled one day as I was walking around the Circle, by several motor cycle cops with sirens wide open, and several cars following with all horns going. It was Joe and his bride on their way to the wedding breakfast. JIM BOWEN was also married several weeks ago. 
All the boys, who finished in the class of '35, have jobs now. JACK SLATTERY is working in the statis-­tical department of a local investment firm and is getting along fine. JOE ARGUS has entered the real estate business with the American Estates 
51 

Co., a firm headed by his father. He has made several nice deals and is doing nicely. I believe JOE BECK is working in the Court House and LARRY SEXTON is with the City. 
I don't know of any changes in fel­lows here. JIM COLLINS, '32„ who was G.K. of the N. D. Knights of Co­lumbus Council, is living here now and is with the Air Redaction Corp. FRANK MCCARTHY is back with the Big Four as Chief Clerk of the ticket office after a leave of absence of sev­eral years. JOHN HARRINGTON is now with Harrington and Folger, one of the leading printing establishments of Indianapolis. WALTER STUHL­DREHER is father of a new boy. This is his fifth child. 
We will hold a regular weekly luncheon meeting in the Board of Trade Dining Room, every Monday noon. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Byrne M. Daly. 207 Ellery Ave., President Lester Wisda, '31. 1016 R Gansbn St., Secretary. 
* JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Robert Duffy, '31, 213 N. Hidtory, Presi­dent Edward H. Kinir, 301 Ruby St_ Secretary. 
After six months trial the club rooms are paying their way. Have regular meetings every first Tuesday, mid-monthly smoker. Clu b Nigh t every Monday and Saturday nights. Since the football season opened a gathering of about 15 members come up and listen in on the game, after %vhich we have a dinner served by the steward, and most of the mem­bers remain for the evening. On Thursday evening, October 17, we are having a "Social Night," when members can bring their wives, sweet­hearts, sisters, etc. 
DON WISE, '35, passed the State Bar exam and was sworn in at Springfield. 
Committees are now working on a dance for Thanksgiving and one dur­ing the holidays. 
ED KING, Secretary. 

KANSAS CITY (Missouri • K>n«as) 
Robert Tyler. '29, 3616 Faseo Blvd., Kan­sas City. Ho.. President Charles E: Hov­er. '29. 420 R Armour Blvd., Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
In CHARLEY MEYER'S absence on vacation in California I will pinch hit for him. 
The club here has renewed its reg­ular monthly meetings on the second Tuesday of each month at Engle­man's. 
The club also gave the first annual get-together for students returning to school at Nigro's farm on the 12th of September. There were over 50 on hand, including 19 students. Kan­sas City has 28 students at Notre Dame this year and the club's only regret was that all of them could not be on hand. MARTIN CROWE and 
\%Wt^ 

JOHN DUGAN arranged for the food and drinks. Everyone was well pleased, expressing genuine enthusi­asm at the idea of making this an an­nual event. 
A number of the fellows will be on hand for games this year. FRED MANCUSO and JOHN DUGAN will go to Columbus for the Ohio State game. JOE O'BRYAN has tickets ordered for the Army game. DAN FOLEY and myself will see the Pitts­burgh game. Had hoped that it would be possible to get everyone agreed on one game and go back together but couldn't make it. 
Looking forward to seeing you and 
Bill again this week-end. 
BOB TYLER, President. 
KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert, '30. U. of Wchita. VTich­ita, Kans^. President. Dan Welchons, '30, 623 Elm St., Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary. 
KENTUCKY 
Eugene J. Stcucrle, '25, 1439 Willow Ave., I/>uisville, President. John Bannon, '32, 2011 Sherwood, Louisville, Secretary. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. K Burke. '88, 307 Camp St., New Or­leans, La.. Preadent. Cyprian A. Sporl. Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bid e New Or­leans, La., Secretary. 
After receiving your card and see­ing a couple of football games, the writer is well aware that another sea­son is before us. 
Am pleased to report that we were able to round up six or seven new students from here for this year's 
N. D. enrollment. One of the boys happens to be the son of Fred Digby, well known southern sports writer for the New Orleans Item. The ^vriter understands young Digby has fine possibilities, so no doubt he will keep his dad well posted on what the Notre Dame teams are doing. In this way the senior can keep this section of the country well advised. 
JOE BEACH, who finished last June, has had a very successful sum­mer playing professional baseball and has signed up with Holy Cross Col­lege here as CHUCK JASKWHICH'S, '33, assistant. As you no doubt know. Chuck's team won the city's prep-school football championship las t year. 
My cousin Ed has been down in the tropics working for the United Fruit Company for over a year and is scheduled to come home around Christmas time for his first vacation. From all reports we receive, he is do­ing splendidly down there. 
PAUL C.A.STNER was through here a couple of weeks ago and the writer and his brother had a very enjoyable %'isit with him. We only hope Paul's business will bring him down here more often. 
Also had the pleasure of a visit sometime ago from none other than Terre Haute EDDIE LYNCH who was on his way home from a Holly­wood vacation. I know LEO GRACE of Kokomo will be pleased to learn that Eddie is still the same old cleatus and is in the "pink of condition." 
.A.t the present the writer antici­pates meeting PAUL JOHNSON and BOYLAN in New York in November and witnessing the annual Notre Dame-.Ajmy Game. 
CYP SPORL. 
LAPORTE, INDIANA 
A. Gordon Taylor, '18, 1507 Indiana Ave., President. Norman Duke, '33, 304 Niles St., Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES 
Thomas Heam, *15, 1120 Pacific Unance Bid?., President. Douglas Daley, *30, 781 
Ceres Ave., Secretary­
34c 
MANILA 
Eduardo Roxas, *33, 719 Echague, Manila, 
President.  Lcopoldo  Brias,  Manila,  Sec­ 
retary.  
*  
MEMPHIS  

Walter J. Fransioli, Jr., '34. 218 N. Mc­Lean Blvd., President. Theon Dohogne, '27, 1072 S. WellinBton St., Secretary. • 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes, '16, 1910 Oakland St., Lansing, President. J. Harvey Gauthier, '30, Bark River, Michigan, Secretary. 
* 
MILWAUKEE 
Harold Watson. '25. 735 N. Water St. President. John E. Clauder, '34, 1219 W. Vliet St., Secretary. 
MONTANA 
Earl W. Brown, '93, 320 Power St., Hele­na, President. James B. O'Flynn, '11, Great Falls, Seretary. 
* 
NASHVILLE 
Robert P. Williams, Jr., '29, 106 Gallatin Road, Secretary. 
* 
NEW JERSEY 
Thomas Purccll, '27, 32 N. 16th St., East OranKe, President. Raymond A. Geicer, '32, 446 Eastern Parkway, Irvington, Sec-re tari'. 
.A.S secretary of the New Jersey alumni under the new regime, I here­with submit my first report on the club's activities. 
jVlthough the first regular meeting of the club is not held until the first Monday in October, we got off to a good start this year with a buffet sup­per held at the Krueger Club in Newark on Sept. 11, for the benefit of the Freshmen going out to Notre Dame this year. It proved to be a success and 24 of the 3.5 New Jersey Freshmen were feted in fine style and given the benefit of introductions to their associates on the campus as well as a pep talk in regard to what they could expect from Notre Dame when they got there. Many of the alumni as well as the campus club members turned out in fine stayle and JACK SAUNDERS, TOM PURCELL. TOM FARRELL as well as JULIE ROCCA, president of the campus club, spent a busy evening. 
This affair was followed by the New Jersey Club annual retreat at Loyola House in Morristown. This year it was decided to join up with the New York club and with an ag­gregate of 42 members of both alum­ni associations, we made our way to the Loyola House on Friday, Sept. 13, and spent an edifying as well as spir­itually beneficial week-end, within the confines of the Jesuit institution. 
SAL BONTEMPO, DAN O'NEILL, TOM FARRELL, DOC GELSON, HUGH O'DONNELL, formerly of the New York Times, the WINGERTER brothers as well as myself were very busy praying and meditating for the three days. 
JOE BYRNE was unable to make the retreat this time with the Notre Dame alumni as he is leading another set of individuals up there for the first time at the insistence of the re­treat master who wishes to extend the activities into new land. 
The Monday following the retreat, the Notre Dame special train left Newark and a couple of us were for­tunate enough to get off that morning from work and come down and bid the Freshmen goodby, seeing to it that they got on the right train and that their mothers were assured that they were going to be in good hands for the next few months. 
The next regular meeting of our -Association will be held on Oct. 7 after which I shall send you a further report. 
RAY GEIGER. 
* 
The first regular meeting of the Notre Dame Alumni Association of New Jersey was held on Monday, October 7, and featured a large turn­out to assure the new official regime a splendid support for the coming year. 
TOM PURCELL, the new president, gave the opening address and wel­comed the large group among whom were: JACK SAUNDERS, Dr. HAYES, Dr. HEWSON, ANDREW O'KEEFPE, JOHN SULLIVAN, TOM FARRELL, B. K. and JACK WIN­GERTER, PHIL HEINLE, TOM FLYNN, PETE QUINN and lots of others. 
The treasury reported that it was financially embarrassed and planned to carry out the usual Army-Notre Dame ticket raffle at once to help the Treasurer out of his difficulties. 
DRES SCHIEBLER, of the New York Club, was present to explain the special train that was being run by the Notre Dame New Jersey and New York Clubs to the Navy-Notre Dame game. 
A brief dissertation on the Car­negie Tech game was given by B. 
K. WINGERTER, who was fortunate enough to be there the week before. SAL BONTEMPO added his com­ments to those of Wink. 

After the usual post-summer ses­sions, the meeting was adjourned. RAY GEIGER, Secretari^ 
CITY OF NEW YORK 
Edward T. Tighe, '24. 32 Franklin St.. New York City, President. J. Norbert Gelson, Jr., "26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, Secretary. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Robert P. Sullivan. '33, 102 Walnut St., San Francisco, Calif., President. W. Breen, McDonald. '17, 839 Howard St.. San Fran­cisco, Calif., Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Etchenlaub, *15, Hoster Real­ty BIdg., Columbus, President. 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran. "32, 1611 S. Carson, Tul­sa. President. Norbert F. Skelly. '25. University Club, Tulsa, Secretary. 
OREGON 
Frank T. Collier. "OS, 721 Yeon Bldft., Portland. President. William C. Schmitt. '10, Consolidated Equipment Co., Portland. 
, Secretary. 
PARIS 
Louis P. Harl, "IS. Paris GITice, New York, Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA 
Ernest C. Hechinger, '32, 301 Barker St.. President. Al Gury, Jr., '28, 612 Albany Ave., Secretary. 
In addition to getting sundry glimpses of SPALDING SLEVIN, ERNIE HECHINGER, JOE LANG­TON, and the Motsetts (Rev. and ir­reverend), AL GURY, newly-elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Club sends a glowing newspaper clipping of the Fall meeting. 
Fifty-five of the boys were greeted by the new administration, headed by President FRED JfEYEE, Vice-Pres­ident WILLIAM WATEESON. 
Tom Pearman, general secretary of the Peoria Y.M.C.A., was the princi­pal speaker. He praised particularly the Boy Guidance work at Notre Dame. LEO CAVANAUGH was toast­master. Dr. WILLIAM WHALEN told of the early Notre Dame when the football stadium was an apple or­chard and trees were the goals. An­thony Van Dyke, athletic director of Spalding Institute, was a guest speaker who rounded out a fine din­ner meeting held at the Jeffei-son Hotel. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Gerard Desen, '10 6731 N. 18th St.,. Pres­ident. Wm. E. Cooney, '31, 5725 McMa­hon Ave., Secretarj*. 
PHOENIX. ARIZONA 
B. John Hilkert, "22, Bo.x 62. President. Julius J. Danch, '25, 343 N. 20th Ave., Secretary. 
As you know, TOM LIEB is the head coach of Loyola University of Los Angeles, California. Well, Tom and his boys are in Phoenix today (Saturday, October 12) to play Ari­The Notre Dame Alumnus 
zona State Teachers College. This is a night game. 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix met Tom on his arrival at Phoenix, and made arrangements for a Notre Dame luncheon at the Coifee Shop of the Adams Hotel. Believe it or not, we had a real turnout for the occasion and it was a genuine success. 
Among those present were, TOM LIEB, '23, E. J. HILKERT, '22, our president, SAM LOCKEN, '28, JOHN CARROLLO, '27, ROBERT N. PAR­NELL, '25, STEPHEN J. BIELLI, '23-24 and JULILS DANCH, '25. 
We had a as our guests, Corley Vaughn, assistant coach of New Mex­ico State, who was scouting the Ari­zona college game for his team, Joe Sellah, manager of the Associated Students at the Tempe State Teachers College, Fred Joyce, member of the Board of the Arizona State Teachers college at Tempe, and Frank G. Mur­phy, of the New York Mutual Life Insurance Company, who is a friend of Tom Lieb. 
ED MEHREN expressed his regrets at not being able to be present. He had to make an important business trip to Tucson, but gave his best re­gards. 
We also met H. MANFRED VEZIE, '31, assistant coach to Tom Lieb, Manny did not stay at Phoenix but went on to Tucson to scout the Ari­zona State football team for Tom. 
On Friday night October 4, we held a meeting for the election of of­ficers, with the following result: E. J. HILKERT, '22, re-elected president; SAM B. LOCKEN, '32, elected vice president; EDWARD J. MEHREN, '32, re-elected treasurer; JULIUS 
J. DANCH, '25, re-elected secretary. 
JULIUS J. DANCH, Secretarj-. 
RHODE ISLAND 
Leo R. McAIoon, '30, 260 Pawtucket Ave.. Pawtucket, President. John F. McKler­nan, '34, 206 Lockwood Ave., Providence, Secretary. 
September 23. 

Now that the summer season has passed on and all the fellows are be­ginning to think in terms of the Notre Dame-Army game week-end trip, we decided that our club activi­ties could start marching along for another year. We had a meeting last night, at the Narragansett Hotel, and transacted a great deal of old and new business. 
The election of officers resulted in the re-election of the incumbents of the offices of president, vice-president, and treasurer, and the election of CLEM GRIMES as secretary of the club "for this coming year. JOHN McKIERNAN the retiring secretary did a good job last year, and is to be congratulated for his good work. His successor is also a plugger and you may be sure that R. I. news will appear in every ALUMNUS that goes to press. Father PATRICK CRAWLEY, re­tired, a graduate of the class of 1893, was elected to the office of honorary president, as he is now residing in Central Falls, R. I. and maintains an active interest in all Notre Dame activities. 
We are again planning a pilgrim­age from Rhode Island to the Notre Dame' Army game and have engfaged a steamship to take us there in a body. More than 300 went from here last year and we feel sure that almost 400 will be making the trip with us next month. We will be located at the Taft Hotel Saturday and Sunday of that w^eek-end. 
Our Christmas dance will be held Dec. 26 at the Narragansett Hotel, Providence, and will be a dinner dance accoridng to plans: We also have plans made to have monthly sup­per meetings, with round table dis­cussions and our first meeting will be Oct. 16 at Fall River, Mass., so that any of the fellows in nearby Massa­chusetts are certainly welcome to join us that night, and help us make the evening a success. 
The Catholic Youth Organization work is taking great hold here in E.I. and last night we passed a resolution to have our members offer active as­sistance to the leaders of this great movement. 
ANDY McMAHON, who was grad­uated in June, attended the meeting last night as a full fledged alumnus, and let us know that as a state audi­tor he is helping our governor to keep the financial matter all in the blue. JACK SHEEHAN was ^vith us last night also, and told us all about the activities at South Bend. After listening to his short but peppy address we fellows here appreciate how much personal contact with other club members can be as a help. CHARLIE GRIMES has returned from another of his flying trips to South Bend, and he also gave quite a good story on the football at school. During the first part of July we had a summer meeting at Charlie Grimes' farm, and held a reception for Father PATRICK DUFFY who was ordained at Notre Dame during June. Father Duffy, brother of our club chaplain. Father THOMAS DUFFY, is now in South Bend as a curate at one of-the parish churches, and he has promised to take good care of the eleven young 
R. I. Reds that started as Freshmen this year. JOHN McLAUGHLIN has returned to the seminary in Baltimore after spending his vacation at home and "Mac" will surely make a dandv priest a few years from now. JOHN BROWN, '31, who is an architect for the goverment was home for a few weeks this summer. 
LEO E. Mc.\LOON, President. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
James Jones. '22. Central Trust Bldg.. President. Frank Norton, '32, SO Beck-with Terrace. Secretary, 
* 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) Raymond C. Marelli. '27, 1312 Youne St.. Rockford, 111., President. Francis W. Hovjland, '25. 902 N. Main St., Rockford, III.,-Secretary. 
* 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21. Standard Oil Co., Saginaw, Mich., President. ^yiIIiam 
C. Hurley. '25, 117 Cherry St, SaBJnaw, Mich. Secretary. 
* 
SAN ANTONIO 
•William V. Dielmann. Jr., '25, 107 Thel­ma Drive. President. Edward G. Cbnroy, "30, 204 K Craic PI., Secretary. 
* 
SIOUX CITY, IOWA Vincent F. Harrington, '25, Continental Mortease Co., President. 
* 
SPRINGFIELD ILLINOIS Michael F. Kinney, '31, State House, Pres­ident John Troy, ex. '25, 800 S. Ninth St , Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS Robert Hellrung. '30. 30G N. Grand Blvd.. President; David J. Reilley. Jr., '30, 1115 Louisville Ave., Secretarj*. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Francis Jones. '29. 802 I.O.O.F. Bids.. South Bend. Ind.. President Louis Chap­leau. '30, Union Trust Bldg.. South Bend. Ind., Secretary. 
Opening the school year with a "Fireside Chatte" that would have made F.D.R. revise his own. Presi­dent FRANCIS JONES is leading the cohorts of the St Joe Valley through a program already marked by two brilliant pre-game smokers, in the famous College Inn of the Hotel La Salle. 
GILES CAIN and NORMAN HARTZER, co-chairmen of the pre-Kansas smoker had a packed house, thanks extensively to a promotion committee headed by FRANK "RANGY" MILES. 
JOE NYIKOS and CL.A.RENCE HARDING headed the committee in charge of the pre-Pitt smoker. And competing with the first program which was free to the membership, their fifty-cent tax was still met by a crowded house. A feature of the Pitt smoker was the appearance of a bur­lesque on the articles signed by "Bearskin" in one of the local news­papers. 
Music, talks by coaches and sports writers, and the famous Notre Dame system which substitutes Friday Night for Sunday Morning quarterbacks, filled out very interesting evenings, which are to be repeated before the Northwestern and Southern Califor­nia games. ALL VISITING ALUM­NI ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND. 
Also, for the visiting alumni—and the many locals who have missed it —the Club has inaugurated an infor­mal Friday noon luncheon at the Ba­varian Room of the LaSalie (adv.) 
weekly. No program. No fixed charges, no fixed time. Just a chance to hash over the situation in the best Bavarian manner. • 
The Placement Committee, of which J. H. B. McC.AJlTHY of the Oliver Farm Equipment Co. is chair­man, has begun its active and val­uable program of locating opportuni­ties for Notre Dame men in the Valley. 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. Ward L. Leahy. '26, 307 Forest Hill Drive. Syracuse, President Francis J. Cashier, ex. '34, 111 Wendell Ave.. Syracuse, Sec­retary. 
* 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, "11, 260 Melmore St, Pres­ident Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St, Secretary. 
* 
TOLEDO Norbert Scharf, '26 Toledo EiUson Co.. President Joseph L. Wetli. '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretary. 
TRI-CITIES (IUinoi<-Iowa) 
Richard B. Swift. '20, Kahi Bldg., Daven­port. Iowa, President Arthur L. Himbert, '32, 527 39th St , Kock Island. 111.. Sec­retary. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
William Hogan. '32, 62 Mary St , Bing­hamton. N. Y.. President William Yeager. '34, 18 Vine St.. Binghamton, New York, Secretary. 
We are about due for a glance at Triple City activities — who's who, what's what and why. — Let's check up on some of our new alumni mem­bers. 
PETE WACKS and JOE KNAPP, '35, are hitting the law books at Al­bany Law School. They are proba­bly laying down the law to each other by now. 
JOE CONLIN, '35, left our "Par­lor Citj'" for Hollywood. Don't get scared, he has no ambitions for act­ing, although he is connected with the films. He has a position as chemist in technicolor film work. 
STEW OSBORN, '34, has been in Lourdes Hospital for two weeks now. A sudden attack of appendicitis ne­cessitated an emergency operation. It is expected that he will leave the hospital soon. He resides at 7% Crandell St., Binghamton. 
FRAN TOOMEY, '34, who is en­gaged in social work in New York City, spent his vacation here in Bingo a few weeks ago. His younger brother, JOHN, is now representing the Toomey family at Notre Dame. Father JOSEPH TOOMEY and Fran can get first hand N.D. news from him now. 
GEORGE SCHANTZ, of Mason Ave., is also a new N.D. man from the Triple Cities. 
Ran into REGGIE McNAMARA the other day. Engineering work doesn't calm Reggie's old football en­thusiasm. One of the first things he asked was that old question, "Going 
to the Army game this year?" From 
all indications the N.D. Club will be 
well represented. It might be well 
for me to mention here that Triple 
City-N.D. men can get special rail­
road rates, $5.25 round trip. Reser­
vations must be made with J. H. 
Webster, Erie ticket office. 
JOE KANE, '28, is teaching social 
science in the city schools. 
DICK BAILEY, '30, is now dean of boys at the Christopher Columbus school. 
BILL HOGAN, '32, was a member of the radio committee for the recent Democratic Convention, hel d in Binghamton. 
EDWARD O'BRIEN of Lee, Le­vine and McAvoy, law firm, is secre­tary of the Broome County Demo­cratic Committee. 
JOHN DONNELLY, '34, has re­ceived the Democratic nomination to represent his district in the Broome County Board of Supervisors. 
Notre Dame men took a prominent part in the rally of Holy Name So­cieties of Broome County. Father Donlon, O.P., national Chaplain of Holy Name groups was guest speaker. 
Members of our Club are now-
looking forward to a fall meeting at 
which plans will be discussed for 
coming Christmas activities. 
BILL YEAGER. 
TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
John D. YcIIand. '30. 3221 Holmes Ave.. So., Minneapolis. President; Joseph R. Schroeder. '31. 219 Fremont .\ve., N.. Minneapolis, Secretary. 
The Twin Cities Notre Dame Club held election of officers last May and I am sorry that I have failed to no­tify you of the elections until now. The new officers are: JOHN D. YEL­LAND, '30, president; GERALD CONWAY, '32, vice-president from St. Paul and ROBERT D. SULLI­VAN, '30, vice-president from Minne­apolis; JOSEPH R. SCHROEDER; '31, Secretary-treasurer. 
PAUL CASTNER, '23, was in town and JACK DOYLE, '27, and I had a nice visit with him. DON RYAN, '28, and BILL CROOK are new mem­bers of our Club and at the last meet­ing Don and I discovered we live in the same apartment building. 
Little Tommy O'Brien, son of EU­GENE A. O'BRIEN, '27, now has a little sister, Margaret Ann, bom July 20 and I might add that Mrs. Yelland and I are the proud God-parents of Margaret Ann. ARNOLD J. KLEIN, '32, and Miss Marguerite Bohnen were married May 28, Amie informs me though the wedding bells are ring­ing in MARTY DOLAN'S family, Marty remain "unattached." Marty's brother was just married and his sis­ter has' Marty wondering when to plan another stag party. The mothers of Robert D. Sullivan and DON.\LD 

K. MclKTOSH, 34, passed away this summer. The Club expresses their deepest sympathies to their families. 
JOE SCHROEDER is going to write you about the activities of the club and so I'll cut this letter short. 
JACK YELLAND. * 

UTAH 
Bajrmond B. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bide., 
Salt Lake City, President. Cyril Horbecke, 
'19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Secretary. 
* UTICA. NEW YORK Dr. Jolin F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Gas & 
Electric Bids., President. Joseph W. Ful­
lem, '31. 1621 Neilson St., Secretary. 
I have not been in TJtica since March 1, as at that time I was ap­pointed Field Representative of the Federal Housing Administration with headquarters in Auburn, my territory covering five counties. I think I can give a few slants, though, on the Utica boys. 
DOC KELLY, our President, is still one of the successful medicos of the city. I don't believe there is a more busy doctor between his huge prac­tice and his social life. 
CHARLIE HITZELBERGER is in the oil business for himself, and he will soon be a strong competitor of VINNEY FLETCHER. 
FRANK DONALTY is in the res­taurant business with his Dad, and by the way, he is the father of a beau­tiful girl. 
DAN SHAUGHNESSY will soon be called Doctor Shaughnessy. He is doing his last year at Tufts by work­ing in a Quincy, Mass., hospital. 
BERNIE DUFFY has to leave his lovely wife each Fall to complete his medical course at Alabama Univer­sity. 
HUGH GLANCY an d JOHNNY RUSH have both gone to the altar and are also making careers for themselves in Utica. 
GEORGE RICHTER an d ED SWEENEY are soon to be married. 
KEL MCCARTHY is managing an American Store — as usual taking care of the housewives' needs. 
BOB SERVATIUS is still doing the best photography work in Utica. 
DON PULLEM is still single and aookkeeping for b trucking concern. 
I met JOE WELCH here in Au­
burn. He is watching the loans for 
the Morris Plan. 
DAN WILLIAMS, of Oswego, is 
down at Pennsylvania studying law. 
Of course I know you heard that 
I went to the altar with Mary O'Don­
nell, of Herkimer, on May 11. 
If vou happen to see or hear from 
BOB "CONNESS, of Streator, or LEO 
PAGAN, of Tulsa, give them my best 
regards. 
JOE FULLEM, Secretarj-. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) Noble Eizer. '25, Purdue University, Laf­ayette, Ind., President. Peter Yogt, Sec­
retary. 
« 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT" John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmmeton Ave., President. James M. Monaghan. '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Francis J. Wilson. '28. 1217 Melvern, Pittsburgh, President. Edward J. O'Brien, Jr., '34, 44S Wood St., Pittsburgh. Sec­
retary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON John J, Deinpsey, *95,. Dempsey Lumber Co., Tacoma. President. Robert I. Pigott, '32, 925 12th Ave., N.. Seattle. Secretary. 
* 

WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Thomas F. Howley, '11. Citizens-Peoples Trust Co.. "WTieeling. President. George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio. Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, '29, 1348 Quinn. President. Charles Cushwa, '31, 463 Madera Ave., Secretary. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister M. Frederick, C.S.C., St. Mary's CoIleBe. Notre Dame. Ind., President. Sis­ter M. AnEelice, B.V.M.. Secretary. 

CUSHING DEATH 
(Continued from Page 34) 

John Gushing Notre Dame loses a most valued friend and adviser. He represented the highest type of Notre Dame man. He will be deeply mourned and prayed for by Notre Dame men everywhere." 
From Martin J. Gillen, LL.D.: "My sincere regrets in the loss of your fine friend John Gushing. So be it." 
From Matthew J. Carney, New York member of the Board: ".. . We who knew him feel a real per­sonal loss and grieve and sympathize with those who were dear to him." 
From C. C. Mitchell, '02: " . . . He was a great-hearted, devout and loyal friend, a true Notre Dame man, which he would regard as the high­est tribute I can pay." 
From P. C. Reilly, Indianapolis Trustee: "I was with him much of the time at the last meeting and formed a high personal regard for him, and thought of him as one whom I would like to meet and associate with often. I would say of him he was a real man. The Board of Lay Trustees has lost a very valuable member and the University a very interested and kind friend." 
From an editorial in a South Bend newspaper: ".. . His work was done in the old engineering building which was nothing to boast of, but where student earnestness inspired by teach­ers equalling any in the country, com­peted successfully with the handicap of inadequate physical equipment. It 
is no less than remarkable how many highly successful engineers received their training in these surroundings, and among them was a farmer boy from Nebraska who figuratively saw visions and dreamed dreams and re­solved that when he had made his mark he would give Notre Dame an engineering school of modem type. .. . He was in every sense of the word what Notre Dame and her alum­ni call "a real Notre Dame man." This means that in his private and business life he was a credit to his school. He was a gentleman as New­man defined the term. His loyalty to Notre Dame never wavered and he was never too busy to return to the campus for the alumni meetings, there to mingle with his old friends and to make the acquaintance of the 
younger generation...." 
And so on, as befitted his life. 
His funeral on October 12 was in keeping with the honor and esteem in which he was held. 
The sermon was preached by Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, and is reprinted in this issue. The Rev. P. 
J. Magner, pastor of Mr. Cushing's parish, St. Mary's, Evanston, was celebrant of the Mass. Rev. Thomas 
A. Steiner, C.S.C, Dean of the Col­lege of Engineering, was deacon, and Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, sub-deacon. Among the others from Notre Dame attending were the Revs. Thomas and Eugene Burke, and Mat­thew Walsh, and the lay faculty members of the College of Engi­neering. 
MANY ALUMNI AHEND KANSAS GAME OPENER 
The staff of the ALUMNUS—all two of them—^wasn't able, of course, to put the finger on a very large pro­portion of the alumni who attended the opening game with Kansas. But they did get get a glimpse at least of the following: Hank Wurzer, Daven­port, Iowa; Al Shipacasse and John Kiener, of Cleveland; John Lemmer, Escanaba, Michigan; Tim Galvin, Hammond, Indiana; Ray Eichenlaub, Columbus, Ohio; Bob Hamilton, Ra­cine, Wisconsin; Arch Ward, George Maypole and Jim Keams, all of Chi­cago. Jim talked to Dr. Cooney's journalism students on the morning of the game. 
The University of Michigan has recently announced the gift of $5,000,­000 from a non-alumnus for the build­ing and support of a Graduate School. One million will be used for the build­ing, and four for the endowment of the School. The major gift followed several smaller earlier gifts to the' imiversity. 
See what outside friendship can 
THE ALUMNI 

ENGAGEMENTS 
Announcement has been made of the engagement of Miss Dorothy Ahrbeek and DOMINIC VAIRO, '35. 


MARRIAGES 
T. GERALD RANDALL, '23, and Mrs. Helen M. Parker were married September 7, in Flint, Michigan. 
HOWARD MILLER, '24, and Miss Marie Mizer were married August 7, in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Dr. DAVID MERRILL WEEKS, ex. '25, and Miss Ruth W. Gould were married September 21, in New York Citj'. 
JOHN F. McMAHON, '28, and Miss Ruth Marj' Bums were married September 19, in Ithaca, New York. 
THOMAS J. KIENER, '29, and Jliss Mary Jane McGettrick were married September 28, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. JOHN A. KIENER, '32, was best man. 
ROBEHT G. NEWBOLD, '29, and Miss Cyrilla Barbara Hoeschen were married September 16, in St. Cloud, Minn. 
ANDREW AMAN, '30, and Miss Eileen Reilly were married October 12, in Dayton, Ohio. 
WILLIAM SHANNON, '30, and Miss Anna Lenney were married October 6, in Potsdam, New York. 
JAMES H. RASOR, ex. '30, and Miss Marjorie Tobin were married August 27, in FuUerton, California. 
JOHN AL DOLAN, ex. '30, and Miss Marj' Louise Northop were mar­ried October 9, in Goshen, New York. 
FRANCIS L. KOPINSKI, '31, and Miss Clara Slomski were married October 8, in South Bend, Indiana. 

WILLIAM GOSSELIN, '33, and Miss Eleanor Hausfer were married October 5, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
EDWARD A. RILEY, ex. '32, and Miss Fi-ances Gammack were married last June, in South Bend, Indiana. 
HARRY B. BEHRMAN, '32, and Miss Henrietta Wieczorek were mar­ried October 24, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
JOHN GALLA, '33, and Miss Sally Halm w^ere married October 5, in Berwyn, Illinois. JOHN COLLINS, '33, served as best man, and GEORGE MEYERS, '34, ushered. 
EDWARD STREB, ex. '34, and Miss Mary Thurin were married October 14, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
LOWELL "RED" HAGAN, '34, and Miss Louise Yates were married October 7, in Mexico, Missouri. 
BEN ALEXANDER, ex. '34, and Miss Louise Klein were married Sep­tember 4, in Pasadena, California. 
J. A. SCHJIIDT, Jr., ex. '35, and Miss Suzanne Van Den A\'yle were married September 21, in Mishiwaka, Indiana. 
ROSWELL LEAHY, '28, and Miss Emma Louise Houck were married October 17, in Tiffin, Ohio. 
HERBERT J. PERRY, '31, and Miss Ruth Han-iet Flowers were married October 19, in Mishawaka, Indiana. 
JAMES H. GLEASON, '34, and Miss Dorothea Busch were married October 19, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
RAYMOND H. JIANIX, '31, and Miss Mary 0. Seibert were married October 19, at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 


BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS H. BEAC­OM, Jr., '20, announce the birth of Mary Constance, Sept. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL JOHN AN­DERSON, ex.'27, announce the birth of Michael John, July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. DWIGHT L. FIELD, '26, announce the birth of Richard Eugene, September 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. KIRWIN J. WIL­LIAMS, '28, announce the birth of twins, Katherine Joan and Marj' Ellen, August 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES J. DU­CEY, '28, announce the birth of Catheryn Annette, October 7. 

Mr. and Mrs. J. PATRICK CAN­NY, '28, announce the birth of James Patrick, Jr., October 7. A more infor­mal announcement read: "The Champ, weighing eight pounds ringside, ar­rived last night. Please reserve my old room in the Gj-m for him." 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. MOTZ, '30, announce the birth of a daughter, August 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR O'NEIL, '35, announce the birth of Ann Maur­een, in September. 
Mr. and Mrs. LEO J. KLETZLY, '31, announce the birth of Ernest, October 15. 
DEATHS 
FLORIAN BERNARD DEVOTO, LL.B., '76, died on Sept. 29, in Lin­coln, Mass. Mr. Devoto also received an A.B., in '79; M.S., '80, and A.M., '81. He was a native of Cairo, Illinois 
and taught mathematics at Notre Dame before becoming land expert for the Union Pacific railroad. 
ALFREDO SANCHEZ, C.E., '12, Mexico Citj', Mexico, died on Septem­ber 5 after a long illness. 
Chicago papers brought word of the recent death of JOSEPH B. O'HANLEY, '29. Prominent as a golfer at Notre Dame and in Chicago, Joe was to have defended his cham­pionship of Calumet Council, Knights of Columbus, on the Sunday before his death. He was annually an out­standing contender in the city ama­teur golf tournament in Chicago. Surviving Joe are his parents, two brothers and two sisters. 
From C. S. Mitchell, '94, Lolita, Texas, comes the sad news of the death of his brother, I. N. MITCH­ELL, 63 years old, of Houston, Texas, a student at Notre Dame in 1890-91. Acute appendicitis, followed by com­plications, was the cause of Mr. Mitchell's death. Sun-iving are his wife, three sons, his mother and two brothers. One of the sons, 1. N., Jr., w^as at Notre Dame from 1912 to 1914. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: JAMES E. DIGAN, '29, up­on the death of his father; STEPH­

EN CARMODY, '22, upon the death of his father; HENRY A. BURDICK, '08, upon the 3eath of his father; BILL BROWN, '29, upon the death of his daughter; TOM SEPE, '35, upon the death of his father; AL RYAN, "20, upon the death of his father; Prof. WILLIAM F. ftOEM-ER, upon the death of his father; WALTER L. CLEMENTS, '14, upon the death of his father; FRANK A. REESE, '25, upon the death of his father; T. JEROME CONNOLLY, ex. '27, upon, the death of his father; JAMES T. CONNERS, '30, upon the death of his daughter, ROBERT H. McAULIFFE, '18, on the death of his brother. 

PERSONALS 

Before 1880 H°"- •^.°"?^ F. Gaii«­her, FitchburfT, Mass. 
1 fiftn 1 ftftlt Prof. Robert M. Anderson. 
1»»U-18» 5 circleville, Ohio. 
1 RRR Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., 
iOO O Hamilton. Ohio. 
AMBROSE MAJOR, president of the Major Bros. Packing Company, Mishawaka, was seriously injured in late September when the car in which he was riding to Indianapolis crashed into a utility pole. Mr. Major recov­ered in St. Joseph's Hospital, Mish­awaka. 
1887-1888 '^°'*" ^ Hcineman, Conners­vWe, Indiana. 
1889 '*- ^- Burke, 301 Camp St., New Or­leans, La. 
1890-1893 ^°^^ P* Chute, 7 University 
Ave.. Minneapolis, Minn. 

IRQd. HuEh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. S7th St., ^°^ ^ New York City. 
1895 Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 8E0 Phelan '^ Bide, San Francisco, Calif. 
189(t ^ViUiam P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., 
±anv Michigan City. Ind. 
Rev. J. A. MacNamara. St. Joseph's 

1897 
Sanitarium. Mt. Clemens. Mich. 
William C Kegler. 9th and Sycamore 

1898 
Sts.. Cincinnati. Ohio. 

ffiCIQ Dr. Joseph F. Duane. 418 Jefferson 
xoija g|^.j^ Peoria. HL 
1QOO 'I°l>» ^ - Eggeman. Old First Bank " " BIdg.. Ft. Wayne. Ind. 
iqni Joseph J. Sullivan. 1300. 139 N. " Clark St.. Chicago. III. 
10(12 C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Dearborn St.. 
'•'^'- Box 3. Chicago, HL 
DON HAMILTON, '12 

Inheritance or Environment? 
190^ Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. 
•'"'"*' BIdE., Milwaukee, Wis. 
1904 I'o''"'^ Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elk­
hart, Ind. 

JOSEPH BERNARD, 333 South Windsor Boulevard, Los .4ngeles, made his first visit to the campus since 1904 when, with Mrs. Bernard, he brought his son, James, and Dan Murphy, also of Los Angeles, to enter as Freshmen in September. Mr. and Mrs. Bernard had the pleasure of looking about the newer Notre Dame under the expert guidance of FA­THER BURNS. 
1905 "'">''=' J- O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalleSL. 
Chicago, IlL * 

IQflR Thomas A. Lally, 311-13 Paulsen *^" " BIdg., Spokane, Wash. 
1907 ''°^- 11<°<"" ^ Burke, C. S. C No­
tre Dame, Ind. 

1908 ^^"^ ^- Cull, Bulkier BIdg., Cleve 
land, Ohio. 

1909 ^-^' Clear}-, Notre Dame. Ind. 
* 

loin R'v. M. L. Moriarty. 1900 Euclid *"^ " Ave.. Cleveland. Ohio. 
1Q 1 1 Pred Steers. 1633 First National '•^'•'- Bank B!dg.. Chicago, in. 
Note for FRED STEERS, class secretary: ELMO FUNK, of Ander­son, Indiana, had lots of questions about the class' silver jubilee next June when he visited the campus on October 3. With FATHER JOHN O'HARA, President of the University, as a classmate, thought Elmo, Fred shouldn't have much difficulty in get­ting across his re-union ideas. 
Attorney ART HUGHES, CWcago, 
and his seven associates have an­
nounced the removal of their law of­
fices to Suite 114, McCormick Build­
ing, 332 South Michigan Avenue. 
FATHER WENZEL SOBOLEW­SKI, Spearfish, South Dakota, was a most welcome campus visitor on Oc­tober 15. It had been 20 years since his previous visit. 
* 

1912 B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St., Pltts­"* ^ buigh. Pa. 
Inheritance or environment — or both? From Columbus, Ohio, word comes of the football prowess of DON HAMILTON'S son, Don, Jr., a star guard on the Bexley High School team. Another of Don's sons. Earl, a younger boy, is also on the Bexley squad. 
Judge ELMER PEAK, of South Bend, recently returned from a tour of the Orient, talked of his trip be­fore 400 members of the Holy Name Society of St. Joseph County at a South Bend meeting on October 2. 
1913 ^""^ ^- DcTitt, 921 Engineers BIdg., Cleveland. Ohio. 
1914 '^""^ H. Hayes. 406 Bank of Amer­ica BIdg.. Anaheim, Calif. 
As the result of the recent pri­mary in Cleveland RAY MILLER, former mayor, will be one of the two candidates in the mayoralty election this month. He will be opposed by Harold H. Burton. 
JOHN HOOD, of Boise, is State .A.dministrator of the WPA in Idaho. 
J915 James E. Sanford, 1324 Farwell Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
* 

1916 ''••"•"'V P ' Galvin. First Trust BIdg.. Hammond, Ind. RUSSELL DOWNEY, president of the Marquette Lumber Company and the R. H. Downey Lumber Company in South Bend, was recently named a member of the South Bend Board of Education. Althought an active Re­publican and a civic leader Russell had never before held public office. 
1917 Edward J. BIcOsker. 104 S. Union SU Elgin. IlL 
As I stepped out of a building here in Chicago recently, I almost ran into our old friend, JOHN URBAN RILEY, from Boston, whom I had not seen for a number of years. John was attending a convention at the Hotel Sherman, and we got together for a very enjoyable luncheon. 
Leisure is the name of a very at­tractive little magazine, to which John devotes his talents, and he has great hopes for its future. 
He reported having spent the eve­ning previous with PAXIL FOG.ARTY, 
and thev jointly made a call on GEOEE KOWALSKI, only to find he was out. 
Only an hour or two after I left John at the Sherman, while attending the big metals and welding show at the Stockyards Amphitheatre, a gen­tleman stepped up to me, called me by name, and, when I appeared be­wildered, announced himself as JIM BOLAND. And no wonder I didn't recognize him — he's put on that much weight that he looks like an entirely different person at first glance. But he can stand it, and it's really becoming to him, as the ladies would say. Jim is in South Bend, with the Oliver people, a metallurgist, and is still his old smiling, agreeable self. 
ELMER TOBIN has started fol­lowing the N.D. football team with his usual vigor. He was down at school for the Kansas game, and you'll probably find him present at all the home battles. He was plan­ning to go to Madison, too, but fig­ured, I guess, that it would be too soft pickings, for he changed his mind and didn't make the trip. 
All seventeeners are naturally glad to note that BEENIE VOLL is pres­ident of the Alumni Association. Ber-nie's a great chap, and the association should have a great year under his leadership. 
E. J. McOSKER. 

John Riley came down to South Bend and the campus for a brief visit following his Chicago conven­tion. His talk to DOCTOR COON­EY'S journalistic students was the highlight of that week. 
* 

1918 ''"'"' ^ Lcmmer, 1110—Slh Ave, S.. Escanaba, 3Iich. 
BOB McAULIFFE, until this year promotion manager of The Ave Maria, has taken over the full-time job of assistant prefect of discipline. In his new capacity Bob has assumed a portion of the work of FATHER FRANCIS BOLAND, '18, prefect of discipline, who this year is also head of the newly-formed Department of Politics. While he was still with The Ave Maria Bob helped Father Boland in supervising off-campus activities. 
1919 C<"<"^ Badcr, 6S0 Fierce Street, Gary, Ind. 
1920—1^ B. Ward, 1912 Black Bide., Los Anceles, Calif. 
1921 •*lden J. Cnsick, 1 Park Ave., New York City. 
1422 Gerald Ashe, BaBTalo Athletic Clob, 
•"'*'*' Bntfalo, New York. 
KID ASHE, the faithful secretarj', writes as follows: "At present I have a traveling job for the Merchants Dispatch, Inc., Buffalo, and on the hop considerably, so I don't know just how regularly you will get the 1922 alumni notes." 
AARON HUGUENARD, promi­nent South Bend attorney, was one of those most active in promoting the recent Community Chest drive in the Notre Dame suburb. 
192 3 *•»"' Castner, White Motor Co., Cleveland, Ohio. 
1424 Jones F. Hayes, Wm. J. Pedrick & ^ Co., Empire State BIdjr., N.Y.C. 
TOM SHEEHAN, until recently of Valley City, North Dakota, is now in Columbus, OTiio, in connection with federal highway work. His ofiice is in Room 401 of the Federal Building there. With his family — wife and three boys — Tom stopped for a cam­pus visit on October 6. 
FATHER TOM McAVOY, Univer­sity archivist and rector of Alumni Hall last year, is at Columbia Univer­sity this year working on his doctor's degree in history. He is residing at 1546 Shakespeare Avenue, New York City. 
IQ?'! John W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St. *'"' ° Chicago. lU. 
Promoting ye olde foundation gar­ments on ye radio is the former Washington Hall entertainer, RALPH DUMKE. "Sisters of the Skillet," put on by Ralph and his partner, Eddie East, is on a coast-to-coast net­work everj- Sunday. 
1Q7 R Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 96 N. Wainot *^* ° St., East Orange, N. J. 
LEWIS MURPHY, of South Bend, is third district commander of the Indiana American Legion. As such he was an outstanding personage on the occasion of the recent visit to South Bend of the new national Legion comamnder, J. Raymond Mur­phy. Lew presided at the large ban­quet which was a feature of the na­tional commander's visit. 
Attorney IRVING HURWICH, of Mishawaka, spoke on the Constitu­tion of the United States at a recent meeting of the Daughters of the American Revolution in Mishawaka. 
CLEM CROWE, captain of the 1925 N.D. Football team, has been appointed head football coach at Xav­ier Universit}', Cincinnati, to succeed JOE MEYER, who resigned after 16 years in the job. Clem went to Xavier in 1932 as assistant football coach and head basketball coach after five years as athletic director and head football coach at St. Vinecnt's College, Latrobe, Pennsylvania. He is the father of eight children. 
1027 Edmnnd DeCIerq, 8118 EOis Ave.. '•^^' Cbicato, IlL 
Attorney AL DOYLE, head of the Department of Speech at the Univer­sity, has been elected Democratic chairman in Mishaw^aka. A prominent Democrat locally, Al was city judge in Mishawaka in a former adminis­tration. 
BERNIE ABROTT has announced the opening of his offices for the gen­eral practice of law in the Latham Square Building, 16th Street at Tel­egraph Avenue, Oakland, California. 
BILL DAVIS, until recently in Philadelphia, has changed working connections and is now with The Emerson Electric Mfg. Co., 564 West Randolph Street, Chicago. When he was in South Bend in mid-October for a week-end ^'isit with his wife and two children (the younger child a boy just two months old) Bill said that he was on the search for a home in one of the Chicago suburbs. 
192 8 Loois Buckley, 718 E. Corby St, *"*" ' South Bend, Ind. 
PAUL BRUST is back in Milwau­kee with the Federal Housing Admin­istration after leaving a job in the office of the Supervising Architect in Washington, D. C. 
Professor BUCKLEY of the South Bend Buckleys, wig-wags the fol­lowing: 
EARL J. DARDES, '28, is busy at his home, Titusville, Pennsylvania, gathering data on the oil industrj- in that neighborhood which is the site of the first drilled oil well in Amer­ica. Earl is home after a trip to northern Africa and southern Spain earlier this year. He made the return trip as member of the' crew on a small sailing vessel and had some in­teresting experiences, according to GEORGE A. SCHEUER, '28, state editor of the South Bend Neics-Times, who visited Earl while on a tour of art galleries in Ohio, Pennsylvania and other states. 
DR. ULYSSES J. ROTHBALLER was at the St. Joseph Valley Club Smoker before the Kansas game re­newing old acquaintances. He finished his work in dentistiy at Indiana Uni­versity in 1932, and now is practicing in the Associates Building, South Bend. 
CHARLIE De GEOOTE dropped in the other day to give me a little first hand information on the farm problem. Charlie has a farm west of South Bend. He is married and has three children. 
BOB BANNON'S brother, who is a Freshman at Notre Dame, tells me that Bob received his M.S. degree at 
M.I.T. after leaving Notre Dame and has been employed at Niagara Falls, New York. Bob is married and has one child. 
One of DON CORBETT'S prod­iges from Brockport, New York, who is a Freshman at N.D., reports that Don was married last May. Don is a member of the New York State Assembly. He passed on the word that he sees JOHN STEWART and JOE GERAGHTY occasionally. 
I received a pleasant surprise when I found FRANK KELLY waiting for me after class a few weeks ago. Pran k attended Harvard Business School after graduation at Notre Dame and since then has been in the furniture business in Lee, Massachu­setts. WILLIAM HANLEY JIUR­PHY, of Chicago, said at Commence­ment last year that he was going to organize a '28 men's bachelor club. You had better see Frank soon if you want him as a member of vour club, Bill. 
ED QUINN, who has been teaching in the West has returned to Notre Dame where he is working on his Master's Degree. Ed is married and has one child. 
A letter from BERN GARBER, 246 West End Ave., New York City, brought the news of JOHN Mc-MAHON'S marriage. (See marriage column). Bern sees LARRY CUL­LINEY and OLLIE SCHELL, '29, quite often. DICK PARRISH visited Bern in New York this summer. He also mentioned that he met JACK MULLEN on Fifth Avenue last win­ter. Glad to hear that JOHN AN­TUS is in his own office on 42nd Street, convenient for business—and visitors. 
BUCKY DAHMAN is reported as "out of danger" after suffering ser­ious injuries in an automobile accident near Youngstown, Ohio, some time ago. 
GENE FARRELL wTites: "If you could afford space in the ALUMNUS, would you let CLIFF TROMBLEY and BERNIE BIRD, both of my class, know that I would like to hear from them. You might add that wander­ing ED TULLY should report, as well. He was living at Columbus Council Clubhouse in Brooklyn with HARRY SYLVESTER a short time ago but then he dropped right out of sight." Gene is with the Long Island Daily Press, Jamaica, New York. 
ED McCORMACK, Chicago, writes the following: 
"Am now connected with this agency [Blackett - Sample - Hummert, Inc.] doing radio writing. HAL HUDSON, also '28, is ^vriting for Co­lumbia Broadcasting and located in the Wrigley Building. Another radio­ite is BILL MURPHY, '27, working for National Broadcasting in the Merchandise Mart. 
"DICK ELPERS, '28, sells for Co­lumbia, and there is much clamor for Capt . PAUL FOGARTY'S "Rube Appleberrv" sketch" to return to WGN." 
* 
Joseph McNatnara, 231 Wisconsin 

1^9 
St., Indianapolis. Ind. 

1930 B'"">'^ ^ - Conray, 1109 Kenneth 
St., New KensinRton. Pa. 

ED REYNOLDS is an instructor in mechanical drawing at Rye High School, Rye, New York. 
PAT GOGGIN has forsaken Ar­eola for the more dazzling splendor of Washington, D.C. He is attending law school, five nights a week, at Georgetown and puts in his days as librarian in the students' reading room of the Riggs Library at the same University. 
DR. LYNN VANCE, who spent two years at N.D. with the class of '30, later finished in dentistry at Indiana University and is now practicing in the Union Trust Building, South Bend. 
JOHN WALSH sailed on Septem­ber 25 for Rome where he is now studying for the priesthood. 
DR. BUCKY O'CONNOR, of New­ark, New Jersey, was a campus vis­itor on September 17 and 18. 
LOUIE CHAPLEAU, of South Bend, was one of the chief speakers at the monthly meeting of the St. Joseph County Bar Association on October 14. His subject was "Pro­posed New Rules for Practice at Law and Equity in Federal Courts." 
TOM PROCTOR, '35, who was on the Pacific Coast this summer, brought back word that JACK CAN­NON is studying medicine in Los An­geles and living in the Highboume Garden Apartments, Hollywood. 
-ANDY LOVE is teaching account­ing at Columbia in New York and living in 228 Livingston Hall, Colum­bia University, according to FRANK HOCHREITER, '35, who lives in the same hall. 
1931 ''°'*" ^- Boland, 1402 Linden St., Scranton, Pa. 
TOM ASHE is living in the EI Patio Apartments, 2411 Gage Ave­nue, Huntington Park, California, and working for the Emsco Derrick and Equipment Company. His job, he says, was made possible by ED HAR­GAN, '26. 
Mr. Robert J. Arthur, a lawyer of Logansport, Indiana, not technically a Notre Dame man, wrote to the Uni­versity after the tragic automobile death of JACK SWEENEY who would have been a Senior this year: 
"It might interest you that in con­nection with the death of young John Sweeney, which occurred so tragical­ly here at Logansport early this week. 
there was manifested a wonderful 
example of the spirit of Notre Dame. 
"When the local newspaper first 
learned of the story, it sent one of its 
reporters to our office to get in touch 
with MR. HAROLD J. TUBERTY. 
LL.B. '31, one of your law school graduates of a few years ago, and with RICHARD MOLIQUE, now a senior in your law school. The re­porter wanted to know whether either of the young men was acquainted with Mr. Sweeney. It happened that neither knew him, but, in spite of that, both stopped everything that afternoon, got in touch with Notre Dame graduates of several years back, and took immediate steps to see that a priest was called to Mr. Sweeney. 
"Subsequently, it proved that their efforts in that regard were not re­quired, but I thought it might interest you to know that one of your present students and two former students—^to all of whom Mr. Sweeney was a per­fect stranger—dropped everything to see that he was given every assist­ance, and particularly, the last rites of the Church. 
"It shows that the spirit of Notre Dame, in which your students live while they are there, does not cease in their lives with their graduation exercises, but is a living thing which goes on down through life with them wherever they may be in the world. I just thought you might be inter­ested to know that." 
FRANK CRENSHAW, formerly of South Bend, who spent a year at N.D., is appearing with the Associ­ated Actors' Theater this season. Playing in "Gallery Gods" Frank is to tour in the East, the Middle West and the Pacific Coast, according to present plans. 
CARL GAENSSLEN, Green River, Wyoming, was named state hydrog­rapher and water commissioner last February and is out on the road a great deal, according to a recent note from his mother. 
F-4.THER RICHARD MURPHY, C.S.C, is spending the year in gradu­ate work at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston. 
NICK BOHLING writes that FRANK McGREAL has taken over the bankruptcy work of the Chicago Title and Trust Company and that BERNIE THOMPSON is still a "pros­perous florist" on 79th Street in Chi­cago. 
Nick, incidentally, has been assist­ing TOM JOHNSON, '29, in the de­fense case for the famous "Lady in Red," the central figure in recent de­velopments in the Dillinger killing by federal agents. 
While here for the Pitt game, TOM OAKES reported on a vacation trip through the East during the summer. Tom recalled, of the many fellows he 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1935 
met, ART BERGEN, BILL O'BRIEN, BUD TUOHY, JLiRTY BRILL, JOE LENIHAN, '29, HARRY FRANCIS, '30, JOSH D'AMORA, '35. 
* 
193 2 Herbert Giorcio, 9003 188th SL. Hol­lis, L. L, New York. 
SAM RINELLA, of Kewanee, Illi­nois, the local press reports, was the best man at a recent wedding in South Bend. 
JOE MORAN and JIARION BLAKE, '33, have announced the for­mation of a partnership for the gen­eral practice of law in Suite 532 of the National Bank of Tulsa Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
Attorney JIM ROHL of Ashtabula, Ohio, was a campus visitor on Sep­tember 18. 
HERB GIORGIO comes through beautifully with the following: 
During the past summer I received a letter from BUDD DYNIEWICZ. His ability as an executive has finally been recognized, he having received a job of Assistant Manager of the Illinois-Indiana division of a gas com­pany. Budd hopes to marrj' one, two, three O'Learj' before the year is out. I know we all wish him the best of luck. His letter is so replete with in­formation about the fellows of the mid-west, I can't resist the temptation to publish it in full. Budd's letter is as follows:— 
"I've seen ED MELCHIONE mostly. He was groduated from Northwestern Law School last night—^had splendid marks—^was president of his law fra­ternity and also president of the senior class—quite a guy—champion golfer, handball player of N. W. Law School. 
"Met HACK WILSON the other day -—he's at the N. D. Novitiate at Roi­ling Pririe now—^took and passed the bar last year and immediately en­tered the priesthood. 
"PAUL O'TOOLE is making some fancy dollars in the real estate busi­ness. I'm reljnng on him to sell our joint. 
I'JIM IGOE is still in with his father in the printing business — is doing very well and makes frequent trips to Indianapolis to see one Pat O'Con­nor. 
"FRAN and DICK OELERICH are still living on top of the world—no worries or cares—^Fran is plaj-ing much golf—^has joined a club—^Dick is still happy go lucky—^He was a Papa in July. 
"GEORGE HIGGINS, PHIL DUN­HANNY et al are all lawyers — and doin' all right for themselves — as is WALT KIOLBASA. "RAY FOX is the master of his fa­ther's brewery — maiTied and also doin' swell. 
"JOHN GEDDES is no longer the flat footed wolf of La Salle Street. He's now with an insulating company —pushed wheel barrels for a while and now is fast on his way to an executive position. 
"JIM GLEASON gives gas and serv­ice with a smile at his Menominee super ser\'ice station. 
"JOHN JLATOUSEK married Mary-Belle Denney June 1 and is living in Cleveland. FRANK DENNEY and PAUL HOST are both proud Papas. "CLATE DUERR is a super service man for Shell Oil Company in Ben­ton Harbor. 
"Never see J.A.CK JLA.TTNEWS or HOGAN—guess they're doin' all right though. 
"ARCH DONOHUE is taking care of the advertising end of Fred Snite, Sr. Local Loan Company in Chicago and JOE MURRAY is one of the chief accountants. You know of FLO MCCARTHY, FRED jr. and GENE CALHOUN in New York —TERRY DILLON is now manager of the Hol­lywood, California office. Saw PRANK O'JL^LLEY at school last fall — He's giving out some good courses, I hear, and isn't too tough either. 
"JOE OSTRANDER is the shining light in church affairs on the north side of Chicago. JIM O'SHAUGH­NESSY is a full fledged lawj-er. Saw BARRY O'KEEFE and others at the 
N.D. Universal Night banquet—BILL KIRBY and ERSKINE EDWARDS are great guns in the law business in Waukegan, Illinois. See BILL CON­ATON everj' morning on my way from the depot to the office. He's working here for the same company his father's with. Can't say anything about BEN SALVATY, or VINC C.A.VANAUGH.' Don't see 'em. NEIL HURLEY is doin' all right —E D BRITZ was with the R. F. C. in Chi­cago. OLIE POWERS was in the insurance business. BUD GROVES is working on a golf course." 
SMOKY COYNE was also a con­tributor to this edition. Smoky made a visit to Long Island to see a cer­tain Lynbrook girl, about the 4th of July and ran into WILLIGAN and GATELY. Smoky figures that he will be almost as old as PRANK GRA­HAM when he finishes school. He is adjuster for the Hartford Insurance Company. He has given up singing since he received a wallop on the Adam's apple from TIGHE WOODS on a certain occasion on the third floor of Corby Hall. I wonder if LEO SCHIAVONE and the rest of the boys remember the night. Smoky says "Will see you in the Penn Grill the night before the Army game. I sure would like to see the crowd once more before 1 die." BILL BLIND is associated with Peterson, Eagle, Greenough and Day, attorneys in New York. 
LEO Me LAUGHLIN is practicing law at 70 Pine Street and is kept busy as Treasurer of the N. Y. Alum­ni Club. 
DREW SHIEBLER is chaii-man of the Alumni Navy game trip. 
WILLIE WILLIGAN is studying for the October bar. 
BILL SLATER is seen at the race tracks hereabouts. 
JOE McKEON wrote a nice letter to me recently and tells me that he is traveling for a company through Louisiana and Mississippi. 
BILL DARROW has passed the New York bar exam. 
ROGER BEIRNE, '33, was seen in the Radio City Building several days ago. 
JIM DUNNIGAN, '34, is at St. John's Law School with JIYLES MULLEN. 
RAY BOYCE is teaching at night. 
FELIX FRANK is in Washington. 
GENE CONNELLY is getting mixed up in politics. 
I saw HANK DONALTY and the Missus this summer in Johnstown. 
JIM CURRY, '29, was at the alum­ni meeting last week. I wonder if JIM CARMODY, EMIL JANC, JIM DEVLIN, IKE TERRY, JACK HAM­ILTON and the rest of the Freshman Hall team remember him. How about it TOM McDEVITT, JERRY REIDY, BOSCO BYRNE etc? DON KILLIAN was a staunch supporter of that team. How are you, Don? 
I'll bet JIM CARIDEO is proud of Fred. 
FRANK JLADDEN has not been heard of lately. 
WEE HARRINGTON is almost a New Jersey barrister. 
How is our cheerleader, JOE KEN­NEDY? 
Expect to see CHARLEY HITZEL­BERGER at the Army game. See WARD and WEIR occasionally. 
JIM COLLINS is married. Would like to hear from JOHN COLLINS, JOHN CONNOLLY and all the rest of the boys. COLEMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY was at the alumni meeting also, as was BILL CORR. 
I know many of them will be at the Penn. Grill the night before . 
Dr. WILLARD CROXALL, with his wife and daughter, have moved from South Bend to Laurel Hill, Long Island, New York. After receiving his Ph.D. degree in chemistrj' at the '35 Summer School Commencement November, 1935 

Willard connected with a good job in New York. 
L. ORGERA, M.A. '32, is in the Glenn Falls district ofBce of the Tem­porary Emergency Relief Administra­tion of the state of New York, ac­cording to his recent letter. 
Note from JOE PETRITZ: VIN WHELAN and JOHN PAPERA are in their senior year at Harvard Med­ical School. 
193 3 »on°ld ^V>»- 11° Pleasant St., Jo­liet, IIL 
RUSS O'SHEA, who finished up the work for his degree last year and got it in June, i-eports as follows: 
CARL MEYER, '32, Mound City, Illinois, was married in August to Sunshine Darrow of Cairo, Illinois. 
PHILIP DARMODY, '33, is em­ployed in the Engineering Division of the Illinois Central at South Water Street in Chicago. 
EDWARD WALDER, '33, is work­ing in the First Bank and Trust Com­pany at Cairo. 
JAMES WALDER, '32, is buyer for his father's haberdasherj' in Cairo. 
GEORG E SCHAEFER, '33, is druggist's assistant at Levitt's Phar­macy in Cairo. 
Yours truly is employed with the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, Branch Office in St. Louis. 
In ^^'riting to have his address changed BOB JOHNSTON, '33, said that he is state chemist for Pennsyl­vania. He is living at the Knights of Columbus, 213 State Street, Harris­burg. 
Bob adds: "See JOHN McNEILL, '33, often. Guess we are the only ex-Notre Damers in town. Will try to hold up our end of the Navy and Army games." 
Note to Bob: HARRY BRESLIN, '17, 2544 North Fifth Street; TOM GOSS, '25, 1519 North Front Street; and ED SMITH, '01, 2623 North Sec­ond Street are some of the other Notre Dame men in Harrisburg. 
1Q3 4 Janies Moscow, 2320 K. Lawndale Ave, Chicago, lU. 
CARL ZIMMERER, able Notre Dame reporter for the South Bend Tribune in his student days, is now city editor of the Mishawaka edition of the same paper. 
KEN McCONNELL is practicing law in Ti-averse City, Michigan, and living at 528 West Webster Street. 
A clipping from a Winona, Minne­sota, paper has the following to say in part about one of your old pals: "Tea with the Lithuanian president 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and nearly drowning trying to play water polo were just two of the many experiences of EDWARD J. (Moose) KRAUSE, young St. Mary's coach and athletic director who took a trip to Lithuania with a group of Lithuan­ian - American athletes during the month of August." The story went on to tell how Moose and his troupe went to Lithuania primarily to intro­duce the game of basketball to that country. They were induced, how­ever, to participate in swimming meets and the Moose was widely hailed as "King Kong" by the watch­ing crowds. On a basketball floor when he threw in two free throws without looking at the basket the super-enthusiastic crowd rushed out to pat him on the back. 
NICK LUKATS, according to word from many sources, is really clicking in Hollywood. He has already ap­peared in "Offside" with Charlie Far­rell and J. Farrell MacDonald and will soon take another bow in a Ed­die Cantor picture. BEN ALEX­ANDER, the recent bridegroom, re­ports in a recent letter that Nick is an "accomplished actor" and that it's now "Lukats and Gable." 
Ben is a ranger for the U. S. For­est Seii'ice. His bride is the former Louise Klein of Atchison, Kansas, a graduate of Mt. St. Scholastica, and they are living at 5336 Almont Street, Los Angeles, after a honey­moon in old Mexico. 
Says Ben further: "SPIKE ENG­LAND is chief of the Liquor Process­ing Department, U. S. Department of Treasurj'. JUDGE SCOTT is pulling in friends and enemies as judge of the police court. LAURIE VEJAR has taken over coaching a profes­sional football team and is really starting toward a big name in the sport world out here." 
ED ROACH has had his Notre Dame credits transferred to the New York University Graduate School of Business. 
ED MANSFIELD writes from Bir­mingham, Alabama, that he's still one of the pioneers of Catholic journal­ism in the South, being a reporter, feature writer and re-write man on a Catholic paper that was started in December, 1934. Ed sees a good many N.D. men of the past and the present and is much pleased with Bir­mingham and with all the experience he is getting. 
JIM MOSCOW, who was at Notre Dame for the Pitt game, also sends the following: 
Here are a few slants on the activi­ties of those rapidly aging '34ers. Perhaps the busiest of all these days is Secretary - Sleuth - Student JOHN KIELY. Secretary to the President of the Chicago Civil Service Commis­sion, Special Investigator, W. S. 
(with star), in the same Commission, and law student at DePaul Univer­sity, Jack makes those 24 hours go a long way for himself. At luncheon with him these days, one might spot EAGLE REESE, recessing from the Count y Treasurer's Office, BOB HANLEY, wreathed in smiles over the high price of grain, and ERN KIEP, immaculate in his second stiff collar in as many days. While Em is thusly relaxing, RUSS LEONARD and BILL VEENEMAN are keeping Frankfort Distilleries perking from the Louisville end. Incidentally, Russ and Bill haxe expressed strong inten­tions of attending the Northwestern game. 
DOC LANDERS passed through Chicago enroute from Montreal to Springfield, Missouri, on the last lap of his vacation trip. He promised the boys in Chicago that he would start regular correspondence upon his re­turn home. We have a hunch that Doc, being a rabid Cardinal fan, is lying low since the Cubs shelled Diz­zy Dean and the rest of the Gas House Gang out of the pennant pic­ture. 
While on the subject of Chicago and Chicagoans, we find JAC K BUCKLEY employed most diligently with the Federal Savings and Loan Association. FRANK LINTON is a salesman with the Brown Paper Com­pany, while FRANK BRADY travels throughout the Middle West for the firm of Linton's sire. 
DAVE WALSH, all the way from Southern Illinois, boosted his broad­cast smile as he contemplated negoti­ating the final step in landing his ac­countant's job in Chicago. 
GENE HOLLAND, we understand, has deserted the ranks of the "G" men to delve into the coal business. 
Meandering along the marriage row, we find the following newly­weds, (at least in the year) : Mr. and Mrs. ART O'NEIL, Mr. and Mrs. MAURICE CURRAN, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BRENNAN, and last and most recent, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK SAN­DERA. Jack Brennan has taken the Mrs. back to Salt Lake City to assist him in managing his airport. The other three families have become es­tablished in • Chicago. I beg your pardon — the Sanderas live in Oak Park. 
For more news concerning wed­dings consult JOHN KIPLE, who seems to know more about them than the marriage bureau. John is em­ployed with the Arnold packing house. 
FRANK HOCHREITER, '35, re­ports a recent gathering in New York with JIM ROSS, BOB SULLIVAN and FRANK TOOMEY, all of '34. Said get-together took place in the tavern at 51st Street and 6th Avenue (across from Radio City) which is 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1935 
owned by Jim's Dad and in wliich Jim works. Bob and Frank are both doing social work and hoping to have civil service jobs verj- shortly, Hoch said. 
HARRY WUNSCH, of South Bend, has sandwiched in among other du­ties the job of coaching the Alka-Seltzer semi-pro football team of Elkhart. 
1935 Franklj-n C. HoAreitcr, 722 Lirine­
rion Hall Columbia Univ., Kew 
Yoric City. 
Above you see your class secre­tary's present address. The "little man" sez, in accepting his latest honor: "I shall certainly do all I pos­sibly can to keep the '35 column a live one. I trust that I will get a little cooperation from the rest of the men who left the noble halls of that midwestern university with me." So there you are! 
-Alumni -Association Director PROCTOR is residing again in Fa­ther Marr's good old Walsh while he's struggling with his first year law. He says that he'll be more than happy to hear from youse guys and, in fact, to cooperate with Hochreiter as a sort of Middle West reporter for our worthy ALUMNUS. 
BUD BONAR is playing pro rugby with the team up in Ottawa, Canada, and got off to a good start by ^^•in­ning his first game, 21-8, despite his unfamiliaritj' -with Canadian style football. A badly bruised elbow which kept him in the hospital for a few days was Bud's only bad result of the first encounter. 
NORB TOUSSAINT is a gradu­ate student in chemical engineering at Penn State, State College, Penn­sylvania. 
ELMER BURNHAM, former South Bend Central coach who got his No­tre Dame degree in the '35 Summer School Commencement, has taken up his new duties as head freshman foot­ball coach at Purdue. 
JOHN DOOLEY is with the Four­teenth Avenue Cartage Co., 1038 Twenty-first Street, Detroit. 
Mostly to Director PROCTOR are you indebted for the following gen­erously-contributed dope. Check him up if he's WTong. 
JOHN FOY. Teaching physical ed­ucation in a Omaha high school (and not doing graduate work in Boy Guidance at Notre Dame, as previous­ly reported.) 
RAY OAKES. Sears-. & Roebuck training school. Canton, Ohio. 
MATT RONZONE. Graduate work in physical education, Indiana Uni­versity. 
BOB SIMMONS and JIM NOLAN. At Notre Dame for gi-aduate work. JIM DILLON. University of Pitts­burgh Law School. 

FRANK SHAY and AL LOR-necessary data as to street or hall.) ITSCH. Working in Columbus, Ohio. 
GEORGE MELINKOVICH is in BUS BREEN. Northwestern Uni­Los Angeles with the Independent versity Law School. Pneumatic Tool Company. 
BILL MILLER and LABRY VIC ARCADI and ROY SCHOLZ 
CLARK are among the dozen '35 are both attending Johns Hopkins 
men who are in the Albany Law Medical School and living together at 
School. 814 North Broadway, Baltimore. 
TOMMY THOMPSON is also doing They were all set for the Navy game a little lawing—^up at the Law School at last reports. at the University of Michigan. 
From the eminent Hoch comes 

BILL SCHMIDT is a civil engineer the following swell dope for the '35 with Giford's Construction Company, section: Long Island, New York. The Secretary of the class of '35 
wishes to express his appreciation for CELARLIE MAHER is an engineer the confidence of the men of '35 in with the WPA in Hayes, Kansas. 
electing him to the responsible posi­JOHN CARBINE, from his post in tion of class scribe. He trusts that 55 Perkins Hall, Cambridge, Massa­all will cooperate with him so that chusetts, ^vrites: "There's quite a col­the '35 column will be newsy and ony of Notre Dame men here at Har­interesting. 
vard. Perhaps I can steal a march In belialf of the graduating class on our beloved Hock by giving you of June 1935 we ivish to extend to their names. There are nine here the family of JERRY GUSHING our from the class of '35: JOHN NEES-profound sympathy in their bereave­ON, RICHARD WALTERS, ART ment on the death of a beloved hus­C-A.REY, BILL KEEFE, JOHN BRO-band and father. 

PHY, JOHN PORCORO, RAY BAM­BENEK, VIC KURSWEG and DON We are not alone at Columbia this McINTOSH. JOHN JIcKEAN, ex. season for in the law school there is 
'35 is here in the business school. a remarkable representation from Thirty-four men include: HARRY Notre Dame. FRANK FALLON, '33, EOCKETT, GEORG E COMEAU, is finishing his work; HUGH FITZ­CLYDE LEWIS, DAN REEVES and GERALD and JOHN WALLACE DICK HAINEY. The only '33 man I both of '34 are second year men; know of is FRED FAYETTE. JOE while LOUIS GROSSO and BOB PIViVRNICK is down at Boston Uni­ROGERS are befogged along with the versity studying law." writer in the noble endeavor to dis­
cover what the law is all about. 

(Alumni records note to the fel­lows above and to all other '35ers FATHER TOM McAVOY is also concerned: if you want your ALUM­here along with PROF. CAfflLLE NUS mailed to your new address, McCOLE (of our English Lit. days). please notify the Alumni Office giving Both are working for their Ph.D.'s. 
ACHy 
Football Game at 
New York, November J6th 
Use COLONIAL STEAMSHIP LINE to the Game 
••'The Reasonable Route" 
OUTSIDE Staterooms, with runnins water, accom­

PROVIDENCE 

modating two persons, $1, $2, $3, $4 per room. R to (Fare includes Free Berth in Men's or Women's 
O U 
NEW YORK Cabins.) N 

and Return 
D 

Leave Boston, 5:30 P.M., Friday, November 15th. $3.5€ Leave New Vork, 6:00 P. M., Saturday, Sunday, or T 
R Monday, November 16th, 17th, or 18th. 
BOSTON CRCtiESTRA AMD DANCING 
to 

For Further Information, Reservations, Tickets, phone 


NEW YORK 
or write: 
and Return 

A. S. Pitts, C.P.A., G. W. Ellison, K. E. P. A., 38 Dorrance St., 158 Summer St., 
S4.3C 

Providence, R. I. Boston, Mass. Tol: Gaspee 9424 Tel: Hancock 4458 
CCLCNIAL STEAMSHIP LINE 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
recommends that South Bend Alumni, and Alumni in South Bend for the home football games, patronize the following friends of Notre Dame: 
AFTER THE GAME EAT AT Compliments of 
HOFFMANN HOTEL CO. 
THE ALL STEAK SANDWICH SHOP 510 N. MICHIGAN ST. La Salle Annex 
Ed Reaume, '32 South Bend, Ind. Recreation and G a r a 3 e 
THE 122 

Meet Vour Old Friends at the 

122 N. MICHIGAN STREET 
Ladies' Cocktail Lounge 

KEWPEE HOTEL HAMBURG 
Liquors Wines 327 North Michigan St. 
Beers Where Prices and Quality Are Right . . . 

HOTEL LA SALLE MclNERNy & SWEENEY 
Bob Paul 
250 Rooms 

228 N. Main St. (Just North of City Hall) Bavarian Dining Room Popular Coffee Shop Offering a fine selection of Imported and Domestic Wines and Liquors 
Original Brandywine Room Open 7 to I a. m. (Sat, 2 a. m.) Phone 4-4725 

GRANADA 
15 cents Compliments till six 25 cents Louie 
0. 
evenings NEWS ^QCOHN ER 
Bruggner, 


ALWAYS REAOy TO CO-OPERATE '23 


SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 

BOB GANNON, WALLIE O'BRIEN, and JIM SHEILS are all working for their respective fathers. Bob is collecting rents, Wallie taking over the lumber business and Jim aiding the cause of justice in the Su­preme Court of New York. 
A couple weeks ago we had dinner \nth VmCE GORMAN. He is man­aging his father's mens' furnishings department—and at a profit we hear. 
If anticipations became realities for CLIFF DtJDLEY, he should now be a vital factor in the turning out of purer milk in the Dudley Dairy of Paducah. 
MIKE SHEEDY is taking graduate work in Engineering at Louisiana State. He has a good job in the wilds of South America awaiting him as soon as he finishes a course in sugar refining down there. 
The last we heard from ART KOR­ZENESKI he was going to uphold the traditions of the family by enter­ing the study of law at a Chicago in­stitution. Since JOHN CLARK is at De Paul no doubt his "buddy" is there too. 
"CHUCK" BRAGG and BOB MAHER are continuing their scien­tific studies in the medical schools of the University of Buffalo and George Washington University, respectively. 
BILL MEASER is time keeper on a government project in the native Williamsville. 
JIM DILLON is struggling over the legal books at the University of Pennsylvania together with JOHN HIGGINS. 
We are told that the Johnson Wax Company is doing its bit for ED ZIMMERS and that the family drug store is keeping JOE WASHKO in trim for that huge accountant's posi­tion he is expecting. 
Among those continuing their stud­ies at Notre Dame are: BOB AL­BERTS, JOHN VEKBANC, ART KRANSPELDER, BILL FARRELL, and BOB SCOTT. TOM PROCTOR tells us they are going to have a '35 reunion all their own. Wish we could be there. 
We hope that those in the far West and South will drop ns a note so that we can tell the rest of the ."gang" what they are doing. See you at the Army game. 
OJS THE WEST COAST OF JIEXICO 
HOTEL PLAYA DE CORTES 
Vr. ui*: ;il:i(] to announce tliaL nur modem rei^ri liolcU now rapidly uearing com­pletion on the licach near Guaymas, 'urill tt»on lie opened. Its name: Hotel Playa de Cortes, lis purpose: to give sportsmen and winter vncationists a thoroughly modem, AniiTium-tj-pe hotel on Mexico's tropical V<^t CoasL Its rates: $6 to $10 a day, in­cluding meals. 
(iuaymas is one of the most exciting places in the Vp'orld to hunt and fish. The w;irin hlue "waters of tho Gulf of Lower f.tili(oiniu fairly swarm ^'ilh Sea Trout, Ited Snapper and giant Sea Bass. In Sum­mer come the fighting Swordiish, Sailfiah and Alarlin. 
HOW TO GET THERE 
Guayinas is just a short distance across the border,on ourVestCoast of Mexico Koute. This route meets onr luxurious Golden Stale Limited (Chicago-Los Angeles) and SunsetLimiied(NewOrleans-Los Angeles) atTucson and spcedsyou to Mexico City via Guaymas,Mazat1an,Tex)ic,and Guadalajara. 
Through air-conditioned Pullman service. 
Vrrylowronnd trip fares toGuaymas and all Vest Coast of Mexico points—also to Mexico City, with theprivilege of using the Vest Coast Route one way and the El Paso Itontc the other. 
For boohlets and information about the 
West Coast of Mexico, write 0. P. Bartlett, Dfipt.Z-U,310So.MichiganBlvd^Oiicago, For de luxe booklet with large map infuU colors, enclose 25c stamps or coin. 
SOTTTHERIT PACIHC 

THE PASSING OF THE OLD INFIRMARY 
Editor's note: Returning students this year found the neiv $250,000 infirm­ary rapidly rising on the site, approximately, of the old heating plant. Before the year is out the historic old infirmary will have passed irito the traditions of Notre Dame. Alumni will, therefore, be especially grateful for the following poignant piece by one who knows the story well. 
The old infirmaiy is through, the place that tabernacled you 
When you were sick, or playing slick to get away from class; Its hallowed doors will shortly close, its walls will crumble in repose. And like things human, I suppose, its memory will pass. 
But some, no doubt, will shed a tear of desolation when they hear The old chateau has fallen low beneath the tread of time; Thej'll miss the mattresses of hay on which they used to dream away The hours of a winter day when youth was in its prime. 
How often did they used to steal (when they were hungi-y for a meal Of good old steak that would awake the sleeping gastric juices) Up to the old Infirmarj' where they would always welcome be Unless the sister chanced to see a flaw in their excuses. 
They loved that place with all its faults, despite its calomel and salts. They never shrank but always drank each potion to the dregs; And though they criticised a bit, they had in justice to admit The old potations made them fit and put them on their legs. 
The magazines up there were old, their covers slightly tinged with mould. As students read they shook their head, astonished at each plot; They learned of Dewey's victory, of Harry Thaw's insanity. Or may be they would chance to see that Lincoln had been shot. 
The playing cards were old and torn, left there perhaps by Father Sorin, And many marks of poker sharks were on their greasy backs; And students still may find the wreck of that old green pinochle deck We used for stud, it had a peck of queens and kings and jacks. 
The third-floor dorm was veiy near the band room so that one could hear The big bazoo each time it blew—our ears are ringing yet. And when the Glee Club practiced we were driven to profanity. The tenors screeching out high "c" we never can forget. 
The simple nun who was in charge, into our room would softly barge With little pills to cure our chills, and gargle for our throat; For toothache or a budding boil she'd fill us up with castor oil As though it were a highball royal on which we ought to dote. 
She'd take our temperature with care, then looking with a solemn stare Upon the glass she'd say, "Alas! you have a bit of fever;" And then our meals she'd quickly stop until our temperature -would drop. 
Our plans were nothing but a flop when we tried to deceive her. 
How thoroughly our throats she'd swab, she used to mop just like a gob. You'd think our neck was some ship's deck that had to be washed down; 
Or she might drop into our eyes some liquid fire for a surprise. And whisper when she heard our cries, "Don't be a circus clown." 
And yet in spite of everything we hate to see the curtain ring Upon that place that gave us space when we were down and out; 
We'll miss it through the passing years because it wiped away our tears. And in its shadow all our fears were somehow put to rout. 
—Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., '07. 
We're Proud to Say 
"Welcome Home'* 
.gain the McAlpin is given the opportunity to be of service to Notre Dame. If we had a corps of cheer leaders, our first cheer would be "Welcome". . . long and loud. 
As it is, we'll be satisfied to extend our warm greetings to the Faculty, the athletic staff, the team and the student body of Notre Dame . . . and our promise to make your visit to New York a happy occasion. 
Sincerely, 

John J. Woelfle, Manager 
Hotel McAlpin 
"Notre Dame Headquarters" 
BROADWAY AT 34th STREET 
NLore cigarettes are smoked today because 
more people know about them—they are better advertised. 
But the main reason for the increase is that they are made better—made of better tobaccos; then again the tobaccos are blended—a blend of Domestic and Turkish tobaccos. 
Chesterfield is made of mild, ripe tobaccos. Eveiythiug that science knows about is used in making it a milder and better-tastingcigarette. 
We believe you will enjoy them. 
© 1935. licGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. 









