The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
tr<<-.a».i.J.><».^^ifr!^.Wj.A»i>^j^-«im%.T;^;^^.^;».r—;»J».^>.^^ 

THE NOTRE DAME 
U.N.D. Night 
April 19 
Vol. 15 March, 1937 No. 6 
Stop with 


The 1937 


CENTRALITY 
GEORGE J. (Studie) LINS, '02 

at the Reunion Classes 
Uns Golden Conrt Motor Hotel 
Tucumcari, New Mexico 
On U, S. 66 Highway 
Filling Station and 
Cafe in connection. 
Makes 

DELICIOUS SALAD DRESSINGS 
Excellent for Cooking 
1932 (Five year) 1926,1927,1928, and 1929 (Dix) 1912 (Twenty-five year) 1907,1908,1909, and 1910 (DLx) 1888,1889,1890, and 1891 (Dix) 1887 (Fifty year) 1897 (Special 40th) 1917 (Special 20th) 1922 (Special 15th) St. Joe Hall (Special) 
The dates: 

June 4th, 5th and 6th, 1937 



BOOK MANUSCRIPTS WANTED 
on all subjects. Write for Free booklet MEADOR PUBLISHING COMPANY 3S4 Newbury St Dept SI Boston, Messichusctb 

In the heart of Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Park; a short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with bath and shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dome Room. 

•
 Notre Dame alumni, student body and faculty can be definitely certain that fhey will receive the ultimate in facilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingly moderate. 

•
 Make the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago. 


Allan G. Hurst, Manager 
CHICAGO'S 

iNICKERBOCKER 

A SYMBOL OF CjjUlCUm LIVING 
your guests will appreciate the beautiful modernness of Blackhawlc Hotels — their gracious hospitality — their outstanding service and conveniences. In Biackhawlc Hotels you will find luxurious comfort at moderate rates. 
Blackhawk Hotels 
Davenport Iowa Hotel Blackhawk Hotel Mississippi Hotel Davenport 


Located In 
 Peoria  Hotel Jefferson  St Paul  Hotel Si. Paul 

Mason Gly — Hotel Hanford 


BLACKHAWK HOTELS COMPANY 
The magazine is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Asssciatton of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The sribscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of sinKle copies is 23 cents. The annual alumni dues of $o.0i) include a year's tiubscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Notre Dazn^ Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 




The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Vol. IS MARCH, 1937 No. 6 
Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, April 19 
Announcement of Date Launches Plans for World-Wide Observ­ance of Yearly Tribute by All Clubs and Alumni; Progress of Notre 
Dame In 

April Nineteenth, the third Mon­day in April, has been designated as the Fourteenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
With this simple announcement, the machineiy that has heen ^velded and polished for 14 years swings into action through a chain drive that links the Notre Dame world from Shanghai to South Bend. 
Tradition has become so strong and so universally known that details fall into their own places like soldiers at the call of the bugle. 
The major objective is, of course, the meeting of all Notre Dame Clubs at home and abi-oad on the one Night of each year selected as the occasion on which Noti'e Dame men every­where join in universal tribute to a common and beloved Alma Mater, and at the same time renew, in the flesh and in the spirit, those bonds of fellowship which, however trite they may sound in the telling, exist in the heai-t of any man who has breathed the air of the campus. 
Practically eveiy Local Alumni Club has developed a special form of observance for this Night. 
ARE MANY LIMITATIONS 

Radio facilities are limited in time. Speakers from the campus are lim­ited in number and the radius of their travel. National oflicers of the Asso­ciation are limited in availability. Moving pictures of the games are confined to the few who annually re­serve the several sets a year ahead. And many features are still in that rounding, but as yet still building, plan that is the Greater Notre Dame. 
But in no year has the lack or the limitations of the Association or the University kept the Clubs from man­ifesting that spirit of Notre Dame which motivates their existence. 
So this year the fourteenth call is sounded. 
Suggestions for activities vary lit­tle from those of previous years. 
I- Have a meeting of some kind. 
2. Arrange with a local radio sta­


 Keeping With Traditional Simultaneous 
tion for a Notre Dame program. You have talent in the Club, and the Sta­tion has talent, which would provide a novel and constructive fifteen min­utes or half hour. The Alumni Ofiice will be pleased to assist in providing material. 
Calling attention of your local ladio executive to the extent of the Night, to its long and successful his­tory, and to the large local group of Notre Dame men, their families, friends of the University and foUow­ei's of Notre Dame in athletics, can scarcely fail to bring home the audi­ence-appeal of a Notre Dame pro-gi-am. 
INVITE INTERESTED "OUTSIDERS" 

3. Use the Night, when the history of the University and the attractive stories of its many years of existence are freely told, to invite in and ac­quaint fathers of present undergrad­uates, young men who are thinking of attending and their fathers, the religious and lay teachers of your local schools, and some of the so-called "synthetic alumni" whose prin­cipal sin is that they do not know Notre Dame as do the men who at­tended. 
This is by no means an invita­tion to lose the intimate, family spirit that has made the NigLt so success­ful. But few alumni realize how this warm spirit which is so distinctly the possession of the alumnus, appeals to the outsider who, without it, admires Notre Dame and envies the Notre Dame man. 
4. For the Clubs dose enough to the campus, don't wait until April 17 to inWte in a campus speaker familiar to your members. The prominent campus speakers are soon used up by the demand. Many good men are missed for lack of acquaintance with the older alumni and opportunities to know the more numei'ous younger Classes. 
The Alumni Office will do all in 


 Testimonial. 
its power to co-operate in securing desired speakers. There is only one Father O'Hara and one Elmer Lay-den, but there are almost 300 good men and true who could enlighten and entertain an alumni group on an occasion of this kind. 
5. Advertise the Night in your local press, with your Club tie-up— your committees on arrangements; your speaker* a* you sign them up; the place; the attendance; the oldest alumnus in the Club; former athlete* in the Club; occasions when Notre Dame team* or organization* such a* the Glee Club vi*ited the community. The papers want thi* local material. 
' You can have your ob*ervance men­tioned in the new*, in the remember-when column, in the *ports column, in the educational column. Let them know who are the undergraduates from your community at Notre Dame 
This publicity will build up your own organization strength, the suc­cess of the meeting itself, and is un­que*tionabIy of hig h promotional value to the University. 
REMEMBER SPECIAL GUESTS 

6.
 Don't forget the Hierarchy, the honorarj- degree holders and the par­ish priests. All of them admire Notre Dame and are interested in the activ­ities of Notre Dame men. They add a splendid note to your observance. 

7.
 Many Club* have been highly successful and greatly stimulated in having a* guest* men of prominence who know of Notre Dame from un­u*ual angle*—newspaper writer*, ra­dio announcer*, coache* of oppa*ing team*, educator*, prominent alumni of other *chaal*, etc 


-Additional details of interest and importance concerning the Night will be sent to Club officers as they ai'e developed. 
Primarily, it is a Night for the clubs. Plan now to make your ob­servance one of distinction in your community, and in the record of the 1937 Universal Notre Dame Night. 

Menger, Mollis On Faculty 
Menger Is Noted 
European Mathematician 
Second semester changes at the Universitj- include the addition of Dr. Karl Menger, noted European mathe­matician, to the faculty and the re­turn from England to active duty by Economist Christopher Hollis. The new Hall of Biology will be opened 
Dr. Menger, founder of thi-ee new 

•branches of mathematics and vice-president of the rnternational Con­gress of Mathematicians, comes to Notre Dame from the Universitj- of Vienna where he has held the chair of professor of mathematics for the past seven years. He is becoming a m^inber of the permanent staff and will also assist in research work. 
Long a contributor to the Ameri­can Journal of Mathematics and sim­ilar publications. Dr. Menger first visited this countrj- in 1930-31 at which time he was guest lecturer at Harvard University, and at Rice In­stitute. He is the author of several works in English in the field of higher mathematics. 
Biology Equipment Installed 

Christopher Hollis, English econo­mist and author, is returning to his post as professor of economics and economic historj- following an eight month sojourn at his home in Eng­land where he ha? been engaged in research work. 
Installation of equipment has be­gun in the new Hall of Biology, and it will be ready for occupancy soon. Radically new in design for college laboratoiy buildings, this new struc­ture will provide facilities for teach­ing all branches of the biological sci­ences, as well as quarters for gradu­ate work. 
Unusual featui-es of the building in­clude a "floating" photomicrographic laboi-atoiy; several air - conditioned animal rooms; a greenhouse provid­ing desert, tropical and normal condi­tions. -\11 comers in the building are rounded. -Ml ceilings are waterproof and all floors and walls are washable to provide the best possible working conditions. 
Interior of the building is on the flexible unit plan so that departments and laboratories may be enlarged or diminished withou t structural changes. Eveiy available bit of wall space is used for windows, providing an abundance of natui-al light. 
Father O'Connell Appointed 
The appointment of Rev. John P. O'Connell, C.S.C, as chairman of the .A.dministrative Committee of the Graduate CuiTiculum in Social Work is listed aniong the changes for next year recently announced in the new University Bulletin, now on the press. 
In addition to having received the degree of Master of Science in Social Work from the Catholic University, Washington, D. C, Father O'Connell has had practical experience in social ease work in Milwaukee, Wis., and Washington, D. C. 
During the past year Father O'Connell has been teaching classes in Social Pathology, but he will take over the selection of students for next year's classes in social work at once. Several scholarships are awarded in social work each year. 
Father O'Connell is replacing the Rev. Raymond M. Murray, C.S.C, who will henceforth devote all of his attention to the Dept. of Sociology. 
nf we I4)tivemlij 
TH E PUNOL DANTE ST.^TUE 
Total amount needed ^5 0 Previously acknowledged.... 360 Balance needed 490 

Julliii Of, CMieuwlaui 0ouudalion 
Vat the adequate development of graduate work in Chemistry (a field in which the University has achieved distinction) a per­manent fund of at least $500,000 is needed. 
An initial gift of $10,000 from Mr. Francis P. Garvan, LL.D. '36, established two years ago the "Julius A. Nieuwiand Founda­tion for Chemistry and Allied Sciences." Additional gifts have raised this amount to $18,928.05. It is hoped that, through the generosity of alumni and friends of the University, a notable in­crease in this Fund can be announced at this year's Commencement. 
Current Scholarships in Higher Mathematics, each S750 
6^A 
The Unhersity acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From SHANE LESLIE, LLJJ. '35: 

A copy of "St. Patrick's Purgatory." 
The manuscript of W. S. Cobbett's "Index to Year's Residence in America." 
/¥^t^u(^ V- <^^^$^4.</r. 
March, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
F. X. Ackermann at 
N.D. 50 Years 
Has Lived In Same 
Room For 35 Years 
By John J. Lechner, '37 

"Fifty yeavs isn't a long time. It has passed like a moment. I've watched None Dame's growth since 1887." 
The speakei- is Francis Xavier Ackermann, professor of mechan­ical di-awing at the University, who came to Notre Dame 50 years ago. He has lived in the Administi-ation Building during that half - century, and for 35 vears in his present room, No. 321. 
"Yes, I've lived in the Main Build­ing for a long time," said Prof. Ackermann, "and indirectly it was the cause of my coming to Notre Dame. My uncle, who was an artist, had taught at Notre Dame in 1856 in the art depai-tment. When the old Main Building burned in 1879, Fa­ther William Corby, then president 

of the University, commissioned my uncle to decorate the interior of the new building. My father, also an artist, came along to help my uncle. The latter again became a member of the faculty. 
"My home was in Lafayette, Ind., and naturally I went to Purdue. After a year and a half there, however, my father, remembering his pleasant as­sociations with Notre Dame, decided to send me here." 
Prof. Ackermann was engaged as an instructor in free hand drawing, meanwhile continuing Hs studies as a student. Noted for his penmanship. Prof. Ackermann in 1904 began in­scribing names on the graduation di­plomas, continuing this task until five years ago. 
"Back in 1904, you know, if I had 40 diplomas to inscribe it meant a large gi-aduating class. But," his blue eyes twinkled, "nowadays, with Notre Dame graduating from four to five hundred seniors each June I felt 

Alumni President Plans 36-Club Tour 
Arthur J. Hughes, 'II, to Visit Clubs from Coast to Coast 
in Interest of Alumni Association and Program Combat­
ting Communism; Marks Forward Step in Organization. 
In conjunction with the article by President Arthur J. Hughes, Ph.B. '11, LL.B. '17, in this issue, outlining the momentum in alumni activitj- and national press notice produced by the Association's program against Com­munism, it is stimulating and signifi­cant to announce an itinerary of visits to local club planned by Presi­dent Hughes for the i-emaining months of his term. 
In each instance, the club has been asked to minimize those social items of activity, such as banquets, and to concentrate on securing genei-al mem­berehip attendance at open meetings, the keynote of which will be Presi­dent Hughes' presentation of the -A.s­soeiation's position, and the oppor­tunities for the alumni to act. 
Outside co-operation is being so­licited in each of the meetings. Par­ish priests, study clubs. Knights of Columbus, Holy Name, American Le­gion, and all religious, civic, and pa­ti-iotic groups interested in arresting the inroads of subversive doctrines, ai-e being invited to participate in the Notre Dame Club meeting. 
Following is the itinerai'y President Hughes hopes to be able to fulfill: 
Detroit, Mich., March 1. 
Toledo, Ohio, March 2. 
Milwaukee, Wis., March 4. 
Davenport, Iowa, March 8. 
Calumet Dist., March 15. 
Peoria, III., March 18. 
Twin Cities, March 22. 
Rock River Val., March 23. 
SpringBeld, 111., April 1. 
Indianapolis, April 2. 
OHIO 
Dayton, April 5 (noon). 
Columbus, April 5 (night). 
Hamilton, April 6 (noon). 
Cincinnati, April 6 (night). 

I had to step aside because it would be a terrible thing if a gi-aduation day should arrive with not all the diplomas inscribed." 
Prof. Ackermann, at 72, sets an academic pace that would cause many a younger professor to gasp for breath. He arises at 6:30 each morn­ing, breakfasts, and then prepares to meet his classes. He is on the engi­neering school's schedule, teaching 22 hours of classroom and laboratory work a week, yet Prof. Ackermann is not content. He voluntarily appears for four hours a week to aid in lab-
Youngstown, April 12 (noon). PitUburgh, Pa., April 12 (night). 
Akron, April 13 (noon). Clevelanil, April 13 (night).' 
WESTERN 
St. Louis, Mo., April 26. Kansas City, April 27. Denver, Colo., April 28. Phoenix, Ariz., April 30. Los Angeles, May 3. San Francisco, May 5. Portland, Ore., May 7. Seatde, Wash., May 8. Helena, Mont., May 10. Salt Lake City, May II . Omaha, Nebr., May 13. Des Moines, Iowa, May 14. 
EASTERN 
Buffalo, N. Y., May 24. Rochester, N. Y., May 24. Syracuse, N. Y., May 25. Utica, N. Y., May 27. Albany, N. Y., May 28. Newark, N. J., May 29. 
The above itinerary obviously leaves out many fine clubs. But it has been designed to best suit the lim­ited time President Hughes can take for this valuable Association pro­gram. It is equally significant that it will mark the first time a president of the -Association has visited so many of the clubs. 
Combined with work already done, and with appearances before meet­ings sponsored by non-Notre Dame organizations, and with the trip to Rome which launched this movement. President Hughes' contiibation of time and resources to the program of the -4Iumni Association and ttie University is one of the most out­standing and significant in the history of the relations between Notre Dame and her graduates. 
pi-atory direction of a class of Fresh­men. 

"Each year Notre Dame boys are the same," he believes. "They say tiiat the younger generation has changes. If anyone has changed it is the oldsters who think that because things are done differently today than yesterday- there has been change. Outwardly, yes, but fundamentally, no." 
Always interested in athletics Prof. -Ackermann characterized the late George Gipp as Notre Dame's all-time gi-eat in football. 
162 The Notre Dame Alumnus March, 1937 
BY JOHN J. LECHNER. '37 







CAMPUS NOTES 
FISH ARE SAFE 
George Keogan took his sensational basketeers east and garnered victories and yards of publicity. One story appearing in the International Falls, Minnesota, Daily Journal, caught our eye. The story dealt, orthodoxically enough, with Notre Dame's encounter with New York U. in Madison Square Garden. The headline, above the story, however, was rather startling. "29,000 Game Fish Rescued in Jan­uary" screamed the headline. When interviewed Coach Keogan hotly de­nied that the game had been played in New York's Aquarium. 
Incidentally, George and his boys will be feted at a testimonial banquet March 18 sponsored, as is their cus­tom each year, by the Notre Dame Villagers', campus organization com­posed of Noti-e Dame students haWng their homes in South Bend, at the Oliver hotel. St. Joseph Valley alum­ni, please note. In deference to Coach Keogan and squad no fish will be .served. 
WHAT? NO RUMBA? 
The LaEaza club, campus organiza­tion made up of students from Latin countries, is tango-minded. Accord­ing to the club's president, Telmo de Landero, plans are going briskly for­ward for a post-Lenten dance to be sponsored by the group. A dance orchestra will be engaged, President de Landero assures us, that will spe­cialize in tango numbers! 
Edward J. O'Brien, noted short story critic, was to speak on the campus on March 1. 
THE MONTH IN BRIEF 
The Universitj- Theater set their machinery in motion and presented their first production of the year, "Whistling in the Dark," a light com­edy. . . . "Hilda, the Hophead," as played by Paul Lennihan, scored a personal triumph. . . . The leading feminine character, Toby Van Buren, was ably played by Ftenk Ciolino, even though "Toby" sometimes sur­prised by delivering tender senti­ments in a bass voice. 
The Scholastic boys are already hard at work turning out publicity for the Bengal Bouts, to be staged March 19. . . . Editor Paul Foley, Grosse Pointe, Michigan, presided at one of the sessions of the Milwaukee Congress of the Catholic School Press Association. . . . Thomas Proctor, Elkhart, Indiana, and Robert Schmel­zle, Freeport, Illinois, juniors in the College of Law, defeated the Kent College of Law in a radio debate over WLS, Chicago, the judges be­ing the i-adio audience. . . . Francis 
J. Sheed, noted British publisher, al­ways a popular lecturer at Notre Dame, spoke before a capacitj' audi­ence in Washington hall. 
LINN TO SPEAK HERE 
The Press Club's annua! banquet will have James Weber Linn, associ­ate professor of English at the Uni­versity of Chicago, as principal speak­er. . . . George Cecala, Salt Lake Cit}', Utah, a senior in Ai-ts and Let­ters, was awarded second prize ($25) in an essay contest sponsored by the Indiana Township Officer's associa­tion. . . . His subject: "The Advan­tages of Township Goverament." 
S. R. Dunnuck, South Bend, ha.s presented the Athletic Association with an ice-boat for the use of those students who go in for ice-boating. . . . But most of the ice seen so far on the campus this winter has been in the Dining Hall's refrigei-ating plant. . . . Speaking of the Dining Hall, Eddie O'Malley, '32, secretaiy to Father CHai^a, who is now work­ing towards a law degree, had the honor of being mentioned in one of 
0. 0. McIntjTe's columns. . . . "Odd," as we columnists refer to Air. Mcln­tyre, mentioned that J. P. Morgan's kitchen is capable of preparing food for 600. . . . O'Malley wrote to O. O. and pointed out Notre Dame feat of serving 9,000 meals a day to her stu­dents, which epistle was gratefully acknowledged by Mclntj-re in his column. 
MORRISSEY WINS DEBATING 
Morrissey conquered Dillon to win the Lemmer trophy, given each year to the interhall debating champion. . . . The final debate took place at St. Mary's ^vith 300 of the St. Marj-'s girls. as the audience. . . . Joseph Weidner, LaPorte, Indiana, a fresh­man in engineering, has been recom­mended to West Point by Congress­man Samuel B. Pettengill of South Bend. He's a brother of Fritz Weid­ner, '35. . . . The Notre Dame Coun­cil of the Knights of Columbus initia­ted 93 new members. . . . Joseph DroUa, New Orleans, is gi-and knight of the local chapter. 
The Glee Club presented concerts in Kansas City, Missouri, Erie, Penn­sylvania, and Cleveland. The tradi­tional flag presentation by the Senior Class on Washington Birthday went off in smooth style. . . . The class was split fifty-fifty on the question of: "Over which eye should the tassel suspended from the mortarboard caps dangle?" 434 are candidates for de­grees. . . . Parker Sullivan, Lexing­ton, Kentucky, president of the Sen­ior Class, presented the flag, and Father Hugh O'Donnell, vice-pi-esi­dent of Notre Dame, accepted it in the name of the University. . . . Charles P. Meyers, Elgin, Illinois, de­livered the Washington Day address. . . . Joseph P. O'Brien, C.S.C, Che­boygan, Michigan, recited the Wash­ington Day ode. . . . Edward P. Joyce, Spartanburg, South Carolina, was genei-al chairman of the exercises. 
MARQUETTE DEAN SPEAKS 
Members of the Law Club heard Marquette's dean of law, Francis X. Swietlik. . . . "Meet the problems of your chosen profession with cour­age," said Dean Swietlik. . . . The Heidelberg Singers presented a pro­gram in Washington Hall. . . . Pro­fessor Henry C. Staunton was elected president of the Arts and Letters Lay Faculty Club. . . . Harry Grube, sen­ior lawyer from South Bend, is just getting around to taking his first semester examinations. . . . Hariy, a national guardsman, was called to the flood area two lays before examina­tions. . . . The Junior Prom was a success with dancing to the rhythms of -Anson Weeks and his orchesti'a. . . , The Prom song, "Never Say Good-Bye," WTitten by George Saut­er, Indianapolis, Indiana, scored a hit. 
The second issue of the Lawyer, official publication of the Law School, was released. . . . Charles Welsh, jun­ior chemical engineer from Mahanoy City, Pennsylvania, was elected presi­dent of the Chemists' Club... . Hand­ball, bowling, billiard, and pool tour­naments are being sponsored by the S.A.C., inspired by Athletic Director Elmer Layden. . . . Other competi­tions contemplated are ice-skating races, hockey games, ski jumping, and toboganning. . , . The new hand­ball team, coached by Father Thomas 
J. Brennan, C.S.C, tied in their first intercollegiate meeting with Chicago, two to two. . . . Twentj'-five students took the part of the "mob" in a pro­duction of the opera, "H Trovatore," at one of the local theati-es. . . . 
The President's Page » » ARTHUR J. HUGHES, '11 
It is a remarkable tribute to the educational and religious prestige of Notre Dame and to the loyal aggres­siveness of her alumni that her initia­tion of the greatest civic movement in which she has ever engaged has met with a response of such unusual proportions as to impress the citizens of our entire nation. 
This response to the University's educational movement against Com­munism has evidenced itself first of all in the exceptionally fine spirit of co-operation displayed by Notre Dame men everywhere; and, too, by the un­usually effective programs already launched by a number of our Notre Dame clubs to further the solidity and the success of this movement. 
The inaugural meeting at Notre Dame on the evening of January 25 was held under the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of the St, Joseph Val­ley. Outside civic organizations were invited to attend. Father O'Hara, as chairman of the meeting, addressed the assemblage in connection with the hopes and aims of not only the University, but also our Alumni Asso­ciation ; and there were addresses also by Dr. Daniel C. O'Grady, professor of philosophy; by Sebastian Bonet of Barcelona, Spain; and James K. Ner­ney, president of the Chesterton So­ciety at the University; and by my­self. 
• BROADCASTS 
The Notre Dame Club of New York City, under the able leadership of J. Norbert Gelson as president, has con­ducted a series of 13 weekly broad­casts made up of anti-Communistic talks by prominent members of the club and citizens of New York over Station WLWL. 
Henry I. Dockweiler, '12, national vice-president of our Alumni Associ­ation, is conducting a series of re­markably fine addresses by alumni and civic leaders on behalf of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles over Station KEHE. 
Here in Chicago Frank H. McKee­ver, '04, and John C. TuUy, '11, wi^i the co-operation of Edward W. Gould, '23, president of the club, have spon­sored a series of lectures given by members of the faculty of the Uni­versity, which have proved intensely interesting, and which have drawn in­creasingly large attendances. 
• 

LECTURES 
Similar courses of fine lectures have already been started by the Notre Dame Clubs in Cleveland, De­troit, and Fort Wayne. Exceptional­ly aggressive meetings have also been held by the Notre Dame Clubs of In­
"PKESIDBNT HUGHES " the remarkably fine attitude..." 
dianapolis and Montana to chart pro­grams to join the University in this movement. Many other of our clubs have wi-itten in for additional data and suggestions preparatory to initi­ating action in their particular cities at once. 
Many times I have heard alumni of other universities comment upon the i-emarkably fine attitude which Notre Dame men evince toward each other and the extremely active man­ner in which they support their Uni­versity in all of its acti\'ities without carping or criticizing or harmful in­tervention. One need only have the job that I have had since last June to appreciate fully to what a high de­gree Notre Dame men are character­ized by those enviable qualities in their relations with each other and with our University. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
There are two more interesting developments that have arisen in con­nection with this movement of ours; one is our whole-hearted and result­ful manner in which the Knights of Columbus are co-operating with us, and the other is the wide-spread pub­licity that has been given to the spon­sorshi p of the anti - Communistic movement by Notre Dame. 
Within the last ten days we have appeared before Knights of Colum­bus councils in Aurora, Pontiac, and Wilmette, all in Illinois, with re­quests for future talks before addi­tional councils coming in daily. The presidents sf the various dubs should properly value the kindly co-opera­tion which they may easily elicit from the Knights in advancing the interests of our movement. 
That you may realize the unusually favorable reception which all of the various details of our plans have re­ceived at the hands of the press of our country, I am appending hereto a list of the names of quite a number, but by no means all, of the publica­tions which have carried fine news articles about Notre Dame and her leadership in the drive against Com­munism. The dates and headings of these articles are also included. 
What a wealth of fine material to be continually circulating to the four comers of our nation, featuring the educational and religious standing and background of Notre Dame! 

NEWSPAPERS FEATURE NOTRE DAME 
DATE 2-12-37 2-9-37 2-9-37 
2-4-37 1-29-37 1-26-37 
1-26-37 

1-26-37 
1-25-37 12-23-3G 
CITY Ponliac. III. .\urora, HI. • Pontiac. III. 
Buffalo, N. Y. Pontiac, 111. Rochester, Inil. 
South Bend, Ind. Chicai;o. HI. Cbicaso, m . Belleville. HI. 
NEWSPAPER 

DaSy Leader Beacon-News Dailtj Leader Cath. Un. & Timea 
Da3ij Leader Sentinel 
Tribune 
Herald'Exaininer Ilerald-Examiner Messenger 
(Continued on 
TITLE HEADING OF ARTtCLE "Hughes Attacks Communism at K. of C. Meeting." "Communism is Speaker's Topic Before Knights." "Notre Dame Leaders Will Open K. of C. Campaign." "Notre Dame Alumni Start Campaign on Communism." "Knights Hold Last Dinner of Series," "Notre Dame Joins Fight. Against Reda— Urge 3000 to Join." "Speakers at Notre Dame Cite Evils of Communism." "Red Drive by Notre Dame Launched." 
."Alumni of Notre Dame Fight Reds.** 
"Notre Dame Alumni to Hold Meeting to 


Combat GMnmunism." 

next page) 
Seek Chesterton 



Fund 
Aim to Complete 
His Church In Ensland. 
Sir, 
"The Church of St. Teresa of the Child Jesus at Beaconsfield has re­cently lost its most distinguished parishioner, Gilbert Chesterton, who spent the latter part of his life in the parish where he was received into the Church. Here he worshipped year in and year out, to the great edi­fication of all, and it seems only fit­ting that the completion of the church which was so dear to him should be carried out as a perpetual memorial to one whose name was its greatest glory. 
"As the cost of this completion is utterly beyond the means of the con­gregation, it is felt that, an oppor­tunity should be given to the many thousands, who not only admired but loved Gilbert Chesterton, to show their affection and their gratitude, by associating themselves in this tribute to his genius and his memory. 
"Surely no form of appreciation could be more worthy of him, nor more appropriate, than the comple­tion of the building, wherein he prayed, and the altar before which he lay, when he had given up his beautiful soul to his Creator, to re­ceive the reward of his unremitting labour of love for God and His Church on earth. 
"Plans have been prepared by Mr. Adrian Gilbert Scott, F.R.I.B.A., 
M.C. The total cost which would free the completed church from debt is estimated at 10,000 pounds. Dona­tions may be sent to Monsignor C. W. Smith at the Presbytery, Beacons-field, Bucks; or to Lloyd's Bank, Penn Rd. Beaconsfield, Bucks, marked "Gilbert Chesterton Memorial Fund." 
(Signed): 
Arthur, Archbishop of Westmin­ster, Laurence, Bishop of Northamp­ton, C. W. Smith, FitzAlan, Tredegar, Howard de Walden, Compton Mac­kenzie, Maurice Baring, J. M. Bar­rie. H. Belloc, Walter de la Mare, Philip Gibbs, Eric Gill, Robert Lynd, 
G. Bernard Shaw. 
(The University recently received the above communication and has it­self contributed ^100 toward the me­jnorial. The ALUMNUS ^viU be pleased to receive and fonvard contributions. Ed.) 


NEWSPAPERS FEATURE NOTRE DAME 
12-17-3S Buffalo, N. Y. Cath. Un. «£ Timc9 "Notre Dame Alumni Combat Communism." 12-15-36 Dubuque, Iowa Cath. Tribune "Notre Dame Alumni Press Fight on Reds; 
Radio Will Give Aid." 12-14-36 Marion, Ind. Chronicle • "Outline Fight on Communism.*' 12-14-36 Chicago. III. ffcrald'Examiner "Note Dame Atumni Push Red Crusade." 
12-13-36 New York, N . Y. Times "Fight on Reds to Go on." 12-12-36 Chicago. HI. Daily JVcics "Notre Dame Alumni to Fight Communism." 12-10-36 Chicago, HI. HcToid'Exam incr 
"85 Notre Dame Alumni Clubs to Fight Reds." 10-23-36 Washington, D. ( Times 
"Drive on Beds Pleases Pope." 10-22-36 Atlanta. Ga. Georgian 
"Pope Indorses U. S. Red Drive." 10-22-36 Detroit, Mich. Times 
"Red Drive Details Outlined." "Catholic Alumni Hear Papal O.K. on Anti­10-22-36 Chicago. HI. Tribune Red Plan." 

10-22-36 Chicago, HI. American "Drive on Reds Has Pope's O.K." 10-20-36 Dubucjue, Iowa Cath. Tribune "Pope Pius Apprcfves Notre Dame Alumni Drive Against Reds." 10-19-36 New York, N. Y'. American "Pope on Communism—Lauds Notre Dame Drive on Reds." 
10-19-36  Chicago,  III.  IIcrald-Examiner  "State to Fight Reds* Suit for Ballot Place."  
10-19-36  Chicago, HI.  Ilerald-Examiner  "Pope  Approves  Alumni  Drive  on  Com­ 
munism."  
10-14-36  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Eve.  Public  Ledger  "Catholic Alurani Plan  War  on  Reds."  
10-14-36  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Inquirer  "Pope Aids Lawyer  in  Fight  on  Reds,"  
10 14-36  Philadelphia.  Pa.  Bulletin  "Catholic Alumni Fight  Communism.**  
10-11-36  Chicago,  HI.  Tribune  "Chicagoans  on  the  Move."  
9-30-36  Franklin.  Pa.  Citizcii  Press  '*Pope Gives His Blessing in  Fight on  Com­ 
munism."  
9-24-36  Moline, HI.  Dispatch  "The Progress of  Communism."  
9-21-36  Tiffin,  O.  Advcrtiaer  Tribune  "Notre Dame Grads Fight  Communists."  
9-21-36  Youngstown. O.  Vindicator  "Pope Gives Blessing to Notre Dame  Plan."  
9-21-36  Peoria. HI.  Transcript  "The Progress of Communism."  
9-21-36  Gallon.  O.  Inquirer  "Launchc s a  Nation - wide  Fight  Against  
Communism."  
9-20-36  Cushing.  Okla.  Citizen  "Papal  Blessings  Given  Nationwide  Com­ 
munistic  War."  
9-20-369-20-369-20-36  Louisville. Ky.  Ashland. Ky.  Muskogee. Okla.  Courier-Jou m at Independent Phoenix  "Pope Blesses Red Fight." "Notre Dame Alumni to Fight Communism." "Notre Dame Body Plans Anti-Communist Battle."  
9-20-36  Columbus, O.  Dispatch  "Pope Pius Hopes to Live Five More Years."  
9-20^S  Chicago. HI.  Herald-Exam  iner  "Notre Dame to Aid Pope Against  Reds."  
9-20^6  Chicago. III.  Tribune  "Pope Approves  Notre  Dame  Plan  to  War  
on Reds."  
9-20-36  New York, N.  Y.  Herald-Tribune  "Pope  Welcomes  Help  of  Notre  Dame  
Alumni."  
9-20-36  New York. N.  Y.  Ncics  "Notre  Dame  Fight Approved by  Pope."  
9-20-36  Jackson,  Mich.  Citizen  Patriot  "Notre  Dame  Ass*n. Will  Fight  Rods."  
9-20-36  New York. N .  Y.  Times  "Pope Approves Notre Dame  Aid."  
9-20-369-14-36  Albany, N. Y.  Belleville, HI.  KnickcrboclcerMessenger  Press  "Notre Dame Alumni to Battle"Notre Dame Alumni PledgeFight on Communism."   Communism."  Pope Aid in  
9-12-36  Louisville.  Ky.  Irish  American  "NotreAgainst  Dame Students Communists."   Enlist  in  War  
9-12-36  New York, N. Y".  Catholic  News  "Notre  Dame  Alumni  Pledge Pope  Aid  in  
Conmiunism  Fight.*'  
9-11-36  Quincy, HI.  Western  Catholic  "Notre  Dame  Alumni  Will  Combat  Com­ 
munism."  
9-10-36  Buffalo.  N.  Y.  Cath.  Vn.  &  Times  "Notre  Dame  Alumni  Head  to  See  Pope."  
Talk  "Wilmette  Man  on  Way  to  Audience  with  
9-10-36  'VVinnctka,  HI.  Pope in  Rome."  
Life  "Wilmette  Man  on  Way  to  Audience  with  
9-10-36  Wilmette.  Hi.  Pope in Rome.**  
Catholic  Tribune  "18.000  Notre  Dame  Men  Preparing  for  
9-10-3G  Dubuque. Iowa  Fight Against  Reds."  
Sun-Tetegrajyh  "Notre  Dames Alumni  Push  Rod  Battle."  
9-10-36  Pittsburgh.  Pa.  Journal  "Notre Dame's Head Urges Red Drive."  
9-9-36  New  York.  N.  Y.  American  "Crush  Reds!  Urges  Notre  Dame  Leader."  
9-9-369-9-369-9-369-9-369-9-369-9-3G  Chicago, HI.  Chicago, HL  Milwaukee. Wis.  Springfield, SIo.  New York, N. Y'.  New York. N. Y.  Herald-Examiner News News Times American  "Notre Dame Head Urges Red Drive." "Notre Dame Alumni to Fight Reds.** "18,000 Notre Dame Alumni Enter Fight. Ag^nst Communism." "Priest Fears Red Menace." "Warns of Reds."  
9-8-36  Belleville,  Hi.  Ncics-Dcmoerat  "Alumni of Notre Dame OfferRed Fight."   Pope Aid  in  
9-8-36  Hammond,  Ind.  Times  "Notre  Dame  Alumni  Will  Assist  Pope."  
9-8-3B 9-7-36  Pittsburgh, Pa. Detroit, Mich.  Sun-Tdegrapk Times  "War on Beds Wins Support." "Catholics Hit Communism."  
9-7-36  New York. N.  Y.  American  "Catholics  Acclaim  Anti-Red  Program."  
9-6-36  Albany. N.  Y.  Times  Union  "Fight on Communism — PledgeDame to Pope Pius."   of  Notre  
9-6-36  Flint.  Mich.  Journal  "Notre Dame Alumni Plan Aid in  Commun­ 
ism Fight."  
(Continued  on  Page  172)  




CALL FOR THE FIRST REUNION OF "ST. JOE HALLERS' »// 
Office of the Vice-President, Hotre Dame, Indiana T?o All Old St. Joe Hallers: Memories of happy years should come to mind as "St Joe Hallers" everywhere look at these pictnj-es. Specific comment then is unnecessary. But what is in order is to ring the old dormitory hell for the first reunion of St. Joe BROTHER FLORIAM, CA.a Hallers in the history of the University. Priests, doctors, R I. P. lawyers, teachers, and business men, all old students of the Hall, have heen one in maintaining that a reunion of the clan • should he held. It should have occurred long before this, but the traditional committee didn't function. It functions now, however, and invites all the old guard to return for Commencement in June, so that they may live over again those happy days in the then western outpost of the campus. 
The President of the University heartily endorses the reunion, so that all that is necessary is to have a large attendance. Don't delay, therefore. Mark the dates on the calen­dar now- June 4, 5 and 6. Take it upon your­self to write to a fellow Haller and exact a promise from him to be here. 
Formal organization in those days was un­heard of - was not needed - because the slogan of the Musketeers v/as the rallying cry of the St. Joe Hallers, "All for one., and one for all!" Features of the old Hall need a renovat­ing. They should be passed on as a body of tradition to the general alumni group. Re­sponse now is what's-necessary-not empty promises. From the days of the founding of the old Hall to the war days of 1917, St. Joe Hallers everywhere are invited to attend. 
A St. Joe Hall Reunion Page will be reserved in subsequent issues of the ALUMNUS. Watch it 
BROTHER BONIFACE. (XSX. 
for important announcements. Meanwhile write 
R. I. P.

to the Committee on St. Joe Hall Reunion, Alum­ni Office, that you Plan to Attend! Or, if you want to become personal. let the V.-P. of the University hear from you. 
"Certainly my Good boys - you may have your picnic now but I'll have mine in June." 
(Sig.) 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. 
OLD ST. JOE HALL 
'Westtcard the tide of camptis turned its way . . . .* 



BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 » » Director of Athletic Publicity 


ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
The waning basketball season finds Coach George Keogan's boys well on their way to recognition as the strongest team in the nation. To prove their right to such recognition they must A\in from Butler at In­dianapolis Feb. 27, Marquette at Milwaukee March 6, Minnesota at Notre Dame March 8, and Detroit at Detroit March 12. 
In an earlier issue of the ALUM­NUS, after the team had won three and lost its only two hard games to that date, we expressed confidence that the resourceful Irish mentor would wind up with a mark better 
TOMMY WUKOVITS 
South Bend Basketeer. 
than .500. At this writing his per­centage is .842 for the season with 16 victories and only three defeats. Each of the teams that defeated Notre Dame has been beaten in a return game. They are Illinois, Northwestern, and Pittsburgh. For good measure, the Irish avenged the 1935-36 defeat by Purdue. This makes us the free - style understatement 
'champion of the year. 
At this -ivritin^- Notre Dame hab won nine straight, 13 out of the last 
14. Butler has won more games in the last month than it had won in the previous two months. Minnesota is knocking at the door of the Big Ten conference championship sanc­tum sanctorum. Marquette may hit its stride at Milwaukee, having lost a 41 to 24 start at Notre Dame after leading 12 to 4 early in the game. Detroit has the best team in its his­tory, having lost only to Toledo and DePaul. 
Coach George Keogan has seen his all-time percentage rise from .765, as he opened the season, to .770 at this writing. If he should win his four remaining games, his all-time mark will be .773 for 14 years. Meanwhile the Irish will have set a new crowd 
1937 Baseball Schedule 
Apr. 13—ChicasOt here. Apr. 17—Illinois, there. Apr. 22—Chicaso. there. Apr. 24—Northwestern, here. Apr. 27—Purdue, there. May 1—Michisan State, there. May 4—Northwestern, there. May 5—Wisconsin, there. May 8—Western State Teachers, here. May 12—Louisiana Tech., here. May 13—Louisiana Tech., here. May 15—Purdue, here. May 19—Western State Teachers, there. May 21—Ohio State, here. May 22—Ohio State, here. May 26—Michigan State, here. May 29—-Wisconsin, here. June 4—Iowa. here. June 5—Iowa, here. 
mark for Notre Dame teams, if not for the country, by playing before 15 sell-out crowds in 23 games. Only the cramped quarters of the present gym­nasium has kept the total down by another one-fifth or one-fourth. The Minnesota, Pitt, Illinois, and Purdue games at home sold out several days in advance, the first time this phe­nomenon has occurred at Notre Dame. Two or three times the crowds actually in attendance would have seen these games had seating accom­modations permitted. 
Amazing speed, sure ball-handling, tenacious guarding, and free scoring, particularly by Johnny Moir, have been the biggest factors in Notre Dame's success. The reserves, who were almost ^rithoat value at the opening of the season, have been de­veloped to a point where Keogan has no worries about substituting at any position. 
Moir has slipped below 13 points in only one game—against Pittsburgh —in his last nine starts. The team that night fell below the 40 mark for the only time in nine starts also. Notre Dame won comfortably, 29 to 
18. In ten games to date, the team has scored 40 points or more, and team scoring promises to be the high­est in Notre Dame history. 
Meanwhile, Moir is headed for all sorts of records. The single game mark of 25 points he made last sea­son still stands. But his season's record of 260 points is in great dan­ger. He made that mark during a 25-game schedule. Having missed one game completely and having been slowed down in five others with his broken jaw, he has a total of 232 points, needing only 29 to better last year's record-in 22 games. An aver­
.age of 7% a game will put him over, and this end is almost a certainty barring injury. 
The only Notre Dame record he does' not hold is the three-season mark of Ed (Moose) Krause, which is 547 points. With 492 to date, he needs 56 to beat Krause's three-year mark in two seasons—^just an aver­age of 14 points a game. His average for the season is slightly under 13 points a game, broken jaw and all. 
The near-sighted Scot, who can't even see the scoreboard from the floor, has his eyes focussed, never­theless, on the all-time three season record of 632 points which Frank G. Menke's record book lists for Robert 
H. Meaney of Lehigh in 1928, 1929, and 1930. Moir should beat this mark by 150 points. 
The high spots of the season have been packed into the past five weeks, starting the smashing S3 to 31 vic­tory over Syracuse, a previously un­defeated team. Undefeated Pennsyl­vania fell next, then Western Ee­serve. Purdue's defending Big 10 co-champions and Illinois' conference leaders were defeated within three nights of one another.-Then the Irish, playing before the biggest crowd of the year anywhere, doubled their score on N.Y.U., 52 to 26, at Madison Square Garden in New York. Eight­een thousand saw the game. After nosing out a hot Canisius team, 40 to 36, at Buffalo on the return trip, . the Irish took care of their last re-
BlLL MAHONEY 
Star Trackman 
venge item of the season by dropping Pittsburgh, 29 to 18. Marquette gave everyone fits for ten minutes, but the Irish started their machine-like pass­ing and uncanny shooting to pull away to a safe lead, while the de­fensive department held the Hilltop­pers to four field baskets in the last 30 minutes of the 40-minute contest. 
TRACK 
Coach John Nicholson's track team has done an excellent job of forming a parallel to the early stages of the current basketball race. It's been just 

(Continued on Page 1G5) 







ALUMNI CLUBS . > * 
AKRON 
Winlsin G. Burkhardt. 'SS. 60 Mayfield Ave.. Akrcm. Preaidelit: Lawrence H. Halter, '31, 58 Hawthorne Ave., Akron, Secretary. 

ARIZONA Vincent Heneesbacb. ex.'27. 1710 E. 2nd St.. Tucson. President; Ted A. Witi. ex.'29. Box 628, Tucson, Secretary. 
ARKANSAS Bart L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Are., LitUe Rock, Arlc, Secretary. 
* 

BENGAL R t Rev. Timothy Crowley. aS.C , "02. Dacca. BenEal. India, President; Rev. J. J. Hennesiey, C.S.G., '02. Dacca, Bengal, India, Secretary. 
* 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) EuKcne O'TooIc. '20, 321-323 State St. St. Joseph. President: Fjrank A. DeiUe. '26, 1884 S. Colfax. Benton Harbor. Secretary. 
The Club vnW meet Friday, March 5, at Buchanan, Michigan. Bill Des­enberg and his crew will be in charge of the meeting and promise to keep all busy until the scheduled Notre Dame radio program. 
Frank A. Deitle. 

BOSTON 
James Dooley, '22. 368 Main St.. North An­dover. Mass.. President: James Slcahan. '31. 5 Grove St., Belmont. Mass.. Secretary. 
* 

BUFFALO 
Gcorffc E. Doyle. Jr.. '30. Liberty Bank Bids.. President: Robert Menser. '34. Am­herst Bee Co.. Main & Rock Sts.. Williams-vine, N. Y., Secretary. 
Members of the Buffalo club and their relatives and pals turned out in large numbers for the Canisius-Notre Dame basketball game on Feb­ruary 15. They were rewarded with a thriller and they saw the sami-home town boy, Johnny Moir, of Niagara Falls, presented with token of gen­eral esteem. 
Jim Britt. formerly of WSBT­WFAM in South Bend, now of WBEN, Buffalo, commented on the movies of the '36 football season when they were shown on January 24 to a large and enthusiastic gath­ering in Holy Cross auditorium. 
CALUMET DISTRICT (IncI.-III.) 
John Rohrhach. '23, Crown Point. Ind.. President: Fred J. Solman. Jr.. '28. 5752 Brie Ave.. Hammond. Ind.. Secretary. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Richard S. Walsh. '31. 2191 Plaza. Schenec­tady. N. Y.. President: John B. Land. '34. 4 Hedirewood Ave.. Schenectady. Secretary. 
Activities have somewhat tapered off since our first all-alumni Christ­mas dance. The dance was the most brilliant affair that Notre Dame men have ever sponsored in this district. 
Here is a bit of.flashy news on Mike Leding. Mike is at the present instrumental, in fact he is the spear­head, in the formation of a Catholic Action group for Schenectady. The idea is new and novel to Schenectady and, consequently, is drawing much favorable reaction, not only from the younger set, but from the Catholic clergy as well. At the last meeting' of the group more than 75 were pi'esent. 
Ed Kenefake has been diligently applying himself to the success of Mike's brain child. Thus, he is able to gain a little diversion from his conscientious attempts at solving his advanced course engineering prob­lems, under the auspices of the Edu­cational Depajrtment of the General Electric Company. 
AI Heigle, who spent three months in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, studying the intricacies of power transformers, is back with us again. 
George Como can be seen now and then out drumming up business for his ultra-modem print and art shop. This is a good opportunity to let the boys of our district know that Dick Walsh and yours truly will be out husiping them for the current year's dues very shortly. Have it ready. 
J. B. Land. 
* 

CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hennel. '!«. 1910 Oakland St.. 
Lansinff. President; J. Harvey Ganthier. 'SO. 
Bark River, Mich.. Secretary. 
The 7936-37 Board 
Arthur J. Hughes, 'II, Chicaso, III President Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15. Columbus, Ohio.: First Vice-President Henry !. Dockweiler, '12, Los Angeles. Ca! Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame Assistant Secretary Fred L Steers, 'II, Chicago, III Director to 1937 James E. Deery, '10, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 1938 Don P. O'Keefe, '03. Detroit, Mich Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J Director to 1940 Bernard J. Vol!, '17, South Bend, Ind Director to 1937 (ex-ofRcio) Joseph Waidron, '36, Trenton, N. J Director to 1937 

The 7936-37 Oisfricf Governors 
Alexis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind District I Fred L Steers, 'II, Chicago ; District 1 Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa -. District 3 Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, Minneapolis, Minn District 4 Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich District 5 
B. K. Wingerter, '26, East Orange. N. J District 6 Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, New Vork City District 7 John J. Huether, '22, Schenectady, N. Y District 8 Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass District 9 Anselm D. Miller. '25. Roanoke, Va District 10 Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala District 11 William Reisert, Jr., '29, Louisville, Ky District 12 Cyprian Sporl, Jr., '28, New Orleans, La District 13 
D. Patrick Buell, '24, Dallas, Texas ^. District 14 Daniel F. Foley, '23, Ft. Leavenworth, Kan District 15 Clarence Ruddy, '27. Aurora, III District 16 Earl W. Brown, '93, Helena, Mont District 17 James P. Logan, '18, Denver, Colo : District 18 Anton R. Hebenstreit, 'II, Albuquerque, New Mex District 19 
W. Breen McDonald. '17. San Francisco, Calif. District 20 Samuel M. Dolan, '10, North Bend. Ore District 21 To be elected District 22 CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Cerci, "28. Perth Amhoy Nat'l. Bank BIdff.,Ferth Amhor, President; John Usicfci, 'SI, 2J5 Water Street. Perth Amboy. Secretary. 

The boys are verj- proud of their accomplishments for the year of 1936, especially since it was the first year of the club's existence. 
At a meeting on Februaiy 4 the following men were elected for office: Anthony Ceres, president; Albert Waters, vice-president; Anthony Guif­fre, treasurer, and John Lisicki, sec­retarj-. 
Plans have already been laid for the Universal Notre Dame Night ban­quet. Joseph Nulty has been chosen as chairman, and his assisting com­mittee consists of Ted Hrubec, Ray 
Waters, Michael Balog, William Har­rington and Dr. George McDonnell. 
The boys were verj' enthusiastic in the school's movement against Com­munism. A canvass is being made of all civic, religious, and social organ­izations in this vicinity to arrange for speakers at their meetings. The committee for this drive consists of 
Andrew McDonough Williann Har­rington, Ladd Lukats, Albert Waters and Vincent McCue. 
Here are a few personal items that may be of some interest to some of the fellows in other dubs: 
William Harrington and Vincent 

McCue have passed their bar exams. Harrington is at present connected with law office of State Senator 
John £. Toolan. 
Russell Torrell has returned from his four-month stay in Chile for the Anaconda Copper Company. 
Al Lee is in business with his fa­ther in Rahway, New Jersey. 
Ted Hrubec is affiliated with the Standard Underground Company. 
Dr. Edward Yorfee has returned from Europe and is now practicing in Linden, New Jersey. 
Jim Donnelly is athletic director at the Sacred Heart high school in Eliz­abeth, and is doing a fine piece of work with the limited material he has on hand. 
Dr. William Gadek has passed hi."! state board exam and is temporarily practicing in Perth Amboy, but wiil become the resident doctor at St. Michael's hospital in Newark, New Jersey, sometime in July. 
John Lisicki. 
* 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15. Hosier Realty Bid?.. Columbus, President. 

CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
Leonard Bums. *25. 1635 20th Ave-, Altoona. Pa., President: William McAleer. '31, 1518 19th Ave., Altoona, Pa., Secretary. 

CHICAGO 
Francis J. Oclerich. Jr., '32, 864 Larrahcc St., Chicaso, President: GeorRO A. Brauti­san, '29, 111 W. Washington St., ChicaBO, Secretary. 

In that this letter constitutes my last communication as secretary of the club, I feel that it is appropriate for me to give a cursory review of the past year plus my impression of its state of affairs. 
When Ed Gould took office last Febniary, the club was financially impotent; although it is my recollec­tion that a fine spirit of enthusiasm had been engendered by the prior ad­ministration. 
The first activity of the past year was a dinner at the Knickerbocker Hotel on the occasion of the Univer­sal Notre Dame Night and, as has been mentioned before, it was an un­precedented success. From then on the club has moved along in fine style. 
The weekly luncheons were han­dled by Frank Downs, and on special occasions speakers were presented. The members found them generally interesting and enjoyable. 
Last Fall the club sponsored a dance, and although it was the first dance in seven years, it proved to be a most delightful evening. 
As part of the general revival of spirit, an innoartion was introduced whereby a series of lectures were presented each month by the profes­sors of the University. There are those who felt that the club should have gone into this field before, and apparently their feelings in that re­spect were justified because this lec­ture series has enjoyed a good attend­ance. There remain two lectures on the program—on JIarch 3, "The World Money Muddle" by Christo­pher Hollis, and on April 7, "The Psy­chology of Laughter" by Daniel O'­Grady. 
Last Sunday another program new to our club activities was inaugu­rated. It was arranged to have the members receive Communion in a body at old St. Marj''s Church. After Mass, celebrated by Father O'Hara, we had breakfast at the Auditorium Hotel and heard a most interesting talk bj' Father O'Hara and a few words from Father Byrne, of the Paulist order, whose scintillating ser­mon in the Mass contributed mate­rially to the success of the occasion. To round out the program, John Car­michael, of the Chicago Daily Neivs, and Gabby Hartnett, of the Cubs' baseball team, said a few words. Tim Galvin was the able toastmaster. 
The annual meeting of the club is to be. held on February 25 at the Chi­cago Athletic Association. At that time the new officers will be elected. I think the outgoing administration, save for the •WTiter, is deserving of the highest encomiums, and I have a feeling of confidence that the incom­ing group of officers will carry on the fine program that has been in effect during the past years. 
Patrick F. Crowley. 
* 

CINCINNATI 
Frank H. Sweeney, ex. '17, Kemper Lane Hotel, President; Qarence Brink, '31, 1306 Cryef Ave., Hyde Park, Secretary. 
* 

CLEVELAND 
J. Patrick Canny, '28. 1660 Warren Road. I^kewood, Ohio, President; Lawrence Krai, "31, 276 E. 272 St., Cleveland, Ohio, Secre­tary. 

We have just ended our closed Re­treat at St. Stanislaus conducted by Father Donnelly. Clete Schneider 
and his committee did a very com­mendable job to make all the detailed arrangements necessary for the Re­treat. Fifty-two attended and 16 applications had to be refused for lack of accommodations. Future Re­treats, perhaps, will have to be con­ducted in two sections because of their increasing popularity. 
Our president, Pat Canny, has se­lected Jack Collins to head our Easter Dance and the committeemen include 
Denny O'Neill on the publicit}', Jerry 
Reidy on the hall arrangements, Dr. 
Mike Crawford on the music, Jim Up­
richard on the tickets, and Dr. Frank Gannon on the reception. Jack says he'll have some word on the dance soon. 
The Glee Club, under Joe Casa­santa's direction, sang at the Statler Hotel on Februaiy 8, apeparing here for the first time in eight years. Tom Conley, assisted by John and Joe But­ler, Jack and Jerry Reidy, Pierce O'Connor, Jack Collins, and Denny O'Neill, arranged for the concert and the dance in the Pompein Room, with some 100 couples in attendance danc­ing later to the music of John Beljon. 
A few of the alumni have made new connections. Among them is 
Jimmy Bourke, from the publicity 
department of the Great Lakes Ex­position to the advertising staff of the White Motor Company, working along with Denny O'Neill. Oty Win­chester, from the promotional staff of the Expo to the National Bank Note Company. Jerry Reidy, from the statistical bureau of the Ohio Bell Telephone Company to the Reidy Brothers Furniture Co. 
Art Becvar has dropped street car advertising to join the industrial de­signing firm of John Gordon Rideout and Staff. Phil Prendergast is a stock and bond expert with Nelson, Browning and Company. Ralph Hul­ler is with the Central National Bank, and Ed Gough, a veteran banker of three years experience, is showing him the ropes. Jack Scanlon has joined in his father's furniture busi­ness in Lorain, Ohio. 
Father Jim Moran has a parish in Lowellville, Ohio, but he braves the snows to visit Cleveland, and on his last trip he was trying to locate used or discarded Boy Scout uniforms for the troop he organized for the boys of his parish. If there are any avail­able Father Jim would be very much interested in obtaining them. Notify Al Grisanti. 
John and Will Dore are working in cahoots with Stanahan, Harris Company, a brother act on bonds and investments. Tom Byrne has an­other promotion with the Ohio Bell Telephone Company. Ed Seward is preparing for the priesthood at the American College in Kome. Tom and John Kiener (Keener people buy Kiener coal) are up to their necks in the coal business on the West Side. Chuck Kaiser is up to his neck in the coal business on the West Side. (Far be it from us to discriminate in the Kiener-Kaiser West Side Notre Dame Coal Trust). 
Paul Hallinan has just been or­dained. He sang his first Mass at St. Mary's church in Paines%'ille, Ohio on Feb. 21. 
The Bill Van Rooys announce the arrival of a boy, which increases their family to four, while the John Bel­jons, to keep the records up to date in the Vital Statistics Bureau, an­nounce the birth of a baby girl. 
If Doctor Joe Heimann's business 
(Infants, Inc.) continues to grow the League of Democratic Fathers for the Suppression of Infants' Wails will petition to get in a few billiard tables or bowling alleys so the proud papas won't have to come early for a seat in the reception room because it's like Homecoming on a Saturday af­ternoon. 
Here is the list of those who at­tended the Retreat: 
G. Ambrose. A. Bccrar. J. BcRley, J. Booth. 
R. Brennan. J. Brown, T. Bron-n, J. Canny, 
C. Carey, P. Corrisan, E. Crawley, J. Col'ins, 
D. Dallman, C. Delaney, J. Dore, W. Dore, 
F. W. Dngan. 
F. Foley, Dr. C. Foster. J. Gakinir, C. Greene, G. Hahn, G. Hansser, C. Jahr, E. Jonke, G. Ker\-er, W. Kcrver, F. Kirchncr, 
E. Kramer. 
T. Lenihan, C. Leroux, C. Schneider, Sr.. 
F. T. 3IcDononsh. E. McNamara, P. Mar-quart. E. Mastcrson. J. Matousek, C. Mooney, 
W. Mooney, G. Moore, 
J. O'Brien, J. Rcidv. C. Rnftinir, W. Kyan. 
C. Schneider, Jr.. J. A. Smith, T. Sords. W. Towell, J. Uprichard, J. Weiscnd, W. West. 
Larry Krai. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Harry J. Deegan. ex. '31, 100 Francis Ave.. Hartford, Conn., President: John M. Ciancl. 
•29. 600 Allen St., New Britain. Conn-Secretary. 
In line with Father O'Hara's wishes and the Alumni President, a meeting was held at the Hotel Bond on Jan­uary 25, for the purpose of formu­lating plans for an anti-Communism, offensive. Our chaplain. Father Pat­rick T. Quinlan, class of 1914, was present and addressed the members in a most interesting and instructive talk on the subject of Catholicism vs. Communism. The club is fortunate indeed in having the inspiring guid­ance of Father Quinlan. 
President Harry J. Deegan ap­pointed attorney Thomas B. Curry, '14, chairman of the committee to combat Communism, the functions of which will be related to you at a later date. Regarding the boys: 
Frank D. Aheam, '29, is now mar­ried and connected with the Travelers Insurance Company, at present lo­cated in Philadelphia. Frank T. Aheam, '27, has been with us about a year and is with the Hartford Times in the capacity of the associate edi­tor; is married and has t\vo children. John Carney, '32, New Dealer and Brain Truster, is connected with a governmental agency in Hartford. Attorney Thomas Curry, '14, is the father of seven beautiful children as well as the father and founder of the Connecticut Valley Club. 
Harry Deegan, ex. '31, president of the club, is with the First National Bank, Hartford. Frank Farrell, ex. '30, is selling stocks and bonds; mar­ried and has three children. Raymond 
W. Griffin, who attended N. D. in 1925-26, and a very active member of the club, has a family and is super­intendent of the welfare department 
of city of Hartford. Frank Laraia, 
'28, is a banker and still an eligible bachelor. 
John Lynch, '35, is with a utility company in Hartford and spends his spare time in the Catholic Action movement. Tim Murphy, '23, of the famous Bridgeport Murphys, is at present li\'ing in Hartford and is con­nected with the F.H.A. George "Din­ny" Shay, '30, lives in Hartford nine months of the year and spends three months with Adam Walsh, '25, as as­sistant to Adam at Bowdoin College. 
Paul McMahon, '31, IS now a law­yer practicing in Meriden, Connecti­cut. Raymond McKeon, '29, is teach­ing at a nearby high school. George Erwin, '30, is connected with his fa­ther in the real estate business. Cyril Gaffney, '22, married, has two chil­dren and practicing law in New Brit­tain, Connecticut. Jim Hayes, '28, is married and the proud possessor of a baby boy. Andy Kata, '31, recently passed the Connecticut bar exams. 
Walt MeskiU, ex. '29, is an active member of the club and is employed with a jewelry concern. Sam Vetrano, '31, is now an M.D., having recently returned from the University of Rome. Tom Ferguson, '26, former president of the club, continues his usual interest in the dub's activities. Tom is married and is w^ith the Trav­elers Insurance Company. Ray Sny­der, '31, is vice-president of the club and lives in Chicopee, Massachusetts. Art Demers, who attended N. D. in 1931-33, lives in Springfield, Massa­chusetts, and is an active member of the club. Bill Hurley, '28, lives in Springfield and besides his very ac­tive membership in the dab is also town chairman of the Democratic party of Springfield, is in the insur­ance business. 
On Sunday, February 14, the dub at the invitation of Father Quinlan attended Mass and received Commun­ion at St. Thomas Seminary, West Hartford. After the Mass we were received by the Mott RCT. Maurice F. McAuliffe of the Hartford diocese. The Bishop is an N. D. enthusiast and very much interested in N. D.'s offen­sive against Communism. A Com­munion breakfast was held at the Hotel Bond at which Father Quinlan' and Dr. Vetrano gave brief talks. The next meeting of the club will be held in Springfield on March 5, with Bill Hurley in charge of ar­rangements. It was decided to avail ourselves of the generous offer to use the Alumni Association's films. We plan to invite high school boys at this showing. 
John M. Ciauci. 
* 

DALLAS 
James P. Swift '24, 1202 Southwestem Life Bid?., Dallas. President: Francis A. HeCnl­loueh. '30, M7 First National Bank Bids., Dallas, Secretary. 
* 

DAYTON 
Eutceae May), '24, 400 Irvlns Ave., Pred­dent; Winiam Cronin, '29, 418 Grafton Are.. Secretary. 
* 

DENVER 
Robert A. Dick, '29. 931 14th Ave.. Presi­dent; Harry'Lawresee, '29, 19S1 Lawnenoe St., Secretary. 
On the night of January 25 the Denver-Notre Dame dub met, and after the purpose of the meeting had ben outlined to the members, they were very enthusiastic and were anx­ious to organize and make prepara­tions to do their part in the program outlined. .4t the meeting James P. Logan, '18, was present, and he told us many things concerning the fight on Communism that the American Legion has been waging. Mr. Logan is a very active member in the Amer­ican Legion, and also a very active member in the club. I feel sure that the Denver-Notre Dame Club is go­ing to be one of the most active in this campaign. 
We have also started to work on running football specials to the games next year. The club is- practically evenly divided on going to the Min­nesota game or the Pittsburgh game. 
Bob Dick. 
* 

DETROIT 
Gnbert F. Sehaefer. '26, 17380 Monica. Pres­ident: John W. Brennan, '27, 632 Fisher Bldff., Secretary. 
In addition to its eminently suc­cessful lecture series, the Detroit dub is having a series of equally success­ful dnb meetings. The Detroiters were to have a Rockne Memorial Din­ner at the University Club on March 1, with President Art Hnglies and 
160 The Notre Dame Alumnus March, 1937 
Secretarj' Armstrong and Hunk An­derson present. Gus Dorais was to be chairman in charge. 
Dr. Dan O'Grady and Pat Manion 
have already lectured in Detroit. 
Father Miltner will follow soon. John 
Brennan is the lecture chairman— 
and an outstanding one, if, we may 
say so again, knowing all the obsta­
cles he's hit. 
* DES MOINES 
Hairy O'Boyle. "27, 2801 Grand Ave. Prai­dent: Richard Hyde. '33. 678 26th St., 
Secretary. John Stark writes that the Notre Dame football films were widely en­joyed in Des Moines. They were shown under the auspices of the club. 
DUBUQUE 
CL
I. Kraiewafci, '16, 321 Bank & Insurance Bids., President; Henry I. Trenklc, '24. 180 

S.
 Booth St., Secretary. 


EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. '33, 401 Wyaor Bids., Muncie, Ind., President; Alvis E. Grander, ex. "31. 617 S. Jefferson St.. Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
* 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
JJCO H, Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem. President; Ernest L. Wilhelm, '27. New Jersey Zinc Co.. Research Dept.. Palmerton, Secretary. 
* 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Richard D. Daley, '17, Erie Daily Times, President; Thomas Barljcr, '24, 416 New­man St., Secretary. 
January 26. 
This letter is being written to in­form you of a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Erie on Tuesday night of last week, January 19, at which it was decided that we should have a re-birth, as it were, and whip our­selves into a real organization, with more regular meetings, and more ac­tivities. 
Up to now we have felt that our small numbers did not permit us to have much more than a hit-and-miss organization, but now we feel that we have a sufficient number to as­sure real backing of anj'thing we un­dertake, and from the large turnout for this meeting, we were more than ever convinced of this. 
The following officers were elected: president, Charles J. Wittman; vice-president, Robert F. WesiAIer; treas­urer, Leo H. Carney; secretarj", Wil­liam K. Bayer, Jr. 
The meeting originally had been called in connection with the coming appearance in Erie of the Notre Dame Glee club, which is to be on February 7. Although their coming is not exactly under our auspices, we were called upon to help, and natur­ally we are interested in seeing that their coming is a success in every way. 
Bill Bayer. 
February 8. 
We had the pleasure of hearing the Glee Club over the week-end, and also of showing the boys the high spots of Erie, and it seemed very much like old times again to be out with Notre Dame men. The concert was quite a success, too, and there's no question but that they'll be more than welcome the next time they come. 
Bill Bayer. 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY 
James Murphy. '22. 611 Security BIdff., Brid^port. Conn., President; Joseph E. Russo, '32, 166 Housh Ave., Bridgeport. Conn., Secretary. 
* 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth, *31, 723 Union Industrial Bids., President: Donald F. MacDonald. '31. 1631 W. Court St, Secretary. 
* 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullii-an, '24. 125 E Sullenfield St.. President; Maurice J. DeWald. "33, 2416 Huburtus St., Secretary. 
The Club is participating in the United Catholic Activities that is sponsoring a Catholic Evidence series of talks here directed by Bishop Noll. Ed Sullivan is treasurer, Henry Has­ley is secretarj", and Maurice DeWald, ticket taker. At the first meeting, at which Byron Hayes presided, Francis 
J. Sheed talked. The second lecture was given by Most Rev. Karl J. Alter, D.D., bishop of Toledo, on February 
23. His topic was "Religion as a Basis of Culture and Civilization." On February 28 Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., presented "Communism." On Alarch 7, Michael Williams will pre­sent "Intellectual Expression of Ca­tholicism." This last talk will be Notre Dame Night and w"ill be closed bj- the singing of the Victory March. 
The club is planning a get-together on March 5 to listen to the Pontiac program direct from the campus. 
Maurice DeWald. * GRAND RAPIDS 
Oeoree E. Ludwi^, '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave., 
N. W., President; Raymond J. Bonlnl, '27. 607 Atwood. N.B., Secretary. 
* 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
.Tohn V. Dicner. '09. Mayor of the City of Grpcn Bay, President: John Clancy, ex. *35, 523 S. Day St.. Sjcretary. 
Mayor John Diener, of Green Baj", is the new president of the Green Baj' club, succeeding Harold Londo. John Clancy is the new secretary, succeeding Levi Geniesse. 
President Diener is actively plan­ning for the club's participation in the anti-Communism campaign, ac­cording to his recent letter. 
* GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Raymond Pfelffer. '32, 3032 Lexinston Bd., Louisville, President; John B. Ratteman. Jr., ex. '32, 2114 W. Market St, toniiviUe, Secretary. 
As j'ou know, we are emerging from a great catastrophe. 
Prior to the flood, we had a pro­gram planned, which was similar to that in other cities, to establish our fight against Communism. Of course, on January 25, the night that was set for the first meeting of our pro­gram, we were forced to postpone it because of the flood. 
At the present time, members of the club are busy rehabilitating their homes, and it would be useless to promote such a program. Therefore, until such time arises by which we can put our full force into such a program, we are forced to hold up all activities until that date. 
I hope that within two or three months we will be able to join up with the other alumni clubs. 
Ray Pfeiffer. 
GOGEBIC RANGE (Michigan) 
Robert O'Callasfaan, ex. 'IS. OoEdIc Na­tional Bank, Ironwood. President; Francis 
J. Vukorich. '35, RIdce St, Ironwood. Mich-Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
H. O. Bums. '86, 388 S. Second St. Presi­dent; Hare A. Fiehrer, "27, 701 Rentsehler Bids., Secretary. 
HARRISBURG 
Edward C. Smith, '01, 2623 N. Second St, President; John J. McNeill, '33, Chevrolet Motor Co., Secretary. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Gerald J. Qeary, '21. 310 Lake Shore Dr., Escanaba, Mich.. President; Edward J. Dundon. '22, Iron Mountain, Mich.. Secre­tary. 
Charles W. Bachman, '17, football 
coach at Michigan State College, ad­dressed the football squads of Esca­naba and St. Joseph high schools at an annual testimonial banquet held recently. Notre Da'me and Michigan State men had another dinner honor­ing Charlie at which Dr. Donald H. Boyce; Francis Boyce; Attorney Ed­ward K. Ryan; Frank Mileski, judge of probate, and John Lemmer were present. This was the first Notre Dame meeting that Gerald Cleary, our Democratic state committeeman, has missed. He was in Washington attending the inaugural ceremonies. Charley gave an exceptionallj" fine speech at the banquet. 
John A. Lemmer. 
HOUSTON 
M. E. Walter. '14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hous­ton, President; Thomas F. Green, Jr.. •47, Conroe, Texas, Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Charles E. Mason. '26, Indiana Bell Tele­phone Co., President; Frank P. McCarthy. 
•28, 819 N. Gray St, Secretary. 
I am sorry to be so dilatory in sending you a report of the anti-Communist meeting the Indianapolis club sponsored on Monday night, Jan­uarj' 25. As you know, this meeting 

March, 1937 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
was held at the Civic Theatre and Pat Manion was our speaker. 
We are highly pleased with the success of our meeting. William H. Krieg, vice - president, introduced 
Judge Michael Fansler, '05, justice of 
the Indiana Supreme Court, as chair­man of the meeting. Judge Pansier introduced Mr, Manion, and Pat, as per expectations, delivered a wonder­ful talk. Title: "Communism and the Natural Rights of Man." Attendance 
300. (In spite of bad weather, con­flicting meetings, etc.) 
I wish to give William J. (Curly) Ash a big hand for the fine manner in which he handled publicity. 
Left to right. Professor Manion, Judge Fansler and Bill Krieg. 
The enclosed photograph shows Manion in the act of signing his al­legiance to the principles of democ­racy as specifically laid down by the signers of the Declaration of Inde­pendence. As a memorial of our meet­ing we have the signatures of 300 people who signed the following: 
". . . We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal. That they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights; that among these are life, lib­erty and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, govern­ments are instituted among men, de­riving their just powers from the consent of the governed." 
We propose to have Pat's speech printed in pamphlet form and give it .city-^vide distribution. 
We have already arranged for our second meeting. Tomorrow afternoon (Tuesday, Februarj- 9) Mr. Manion is to repeat his talk to all of the Catholic high school teachers and the third and fourth year high school pupils. 
George A. Bischoff. 

JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
Lester Wisda, '31. 1016 E. Ganson St., President; LTmim Hill. '29, 224 S. Mechanic St., Secretary. 
* 

JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
Robert Baskerville. '31, 104 Younsl Ave., President: Clarence Wilhelmi, '18. 909 Oncid>i St., Secretary. 

KANSAS 
Albert J. Gebert, '30, U. of Wicliita, Wich­ita, Kansas, President: Dan Welchons, 'SO, 623 Elm St., Ottawa. Kansas, Secretary. 

Doc Nigro sent word that the local Rockne Club was again to observe, on March 4 in Cottonwood Falls, Kansas, the anniversarj' of Rock's birth. Cottonwood Palls is near the scene of the tragic airplane crash. 
Doc also reported an excellent turn-out and reception for the Notre Dame Glee Club concert in Kansas Citj' on January 24. About 7,000 persons heard the concert. 
KANSAS CITY (Minouri-KanMi) 
Robert Tyler. '29, 3616 Paseo Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., President: Charles E. Meyer, '29, 420 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
* 

LAPORTE, INDIANA 
Qarence Bonce, '25, 613 Ridee St., Presi­dent: Stephen Shapley, '30, Goodyear Tire Co., Secretary. 

LOS ANGELES 
Eugene M. Kennedy, '22. Banic of America, 7th * Sprinc St, President: Douslaa Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave.. Secretary. 

LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
p. E. Burke, '88, 307 Camp St., New Or­leans. La., President: Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28. Whitney-Central BIIIR.. New Orleans. La.. Secretary. 

The most stirring Notre Dame news we have had in this vicinity in quite some time is the action taken by Loyola University of this city. They have dispensed with their entire former coaching staff and have en­gaged a new one consisting of all Notre Dame men (with the exception of the end coach), under the direc­tion of Moon Mullins and his assist­ant. Butch Pfefferle. Naturally, this announcement was very much wel­comed by all of our alumni in this section; saying nothing of some of the rabid fans and followers the old in­stitution has down here. 
Recently, I had the opportunity of having a chat with my old friend, Pat Manion, over long-distance tele­phone in connection with the illness of one of our boys who is presently attending the University. I am pleased to report that, due to the splendid care which the University and its physicians took of this case of pneumonia, our protege came through in good shape. 
Had the pleasure of running into Judge Joe Blache, of Hammond, the other day, and he is looking younger and better than ever. 
My cousin, Edward Sporl, was up fi'om the tropics for the Christmas holidays and has since gone back to resume his work with the United Fruit Company. 
Understand Bill Drew is working hard getting ready to crack the Loui­
siana bar exam the early part of next month. Cyp SporL 
* 

MANILA 
Ednardo Boxai, 'SS, 719 Ezdianse, Manila. President: Leopoldo Brias. Manila, Secre­tary. 

* MEMPHIS 
John S. Montedonico, '35. 327 Kenliworth PI.. President: Theon F. Dohosne, '87, 1072 S. WeHinBtotn St.. Secretary. 

MIAMI, FLORIDA 
Vincent a Giblln. 'IS, 4103 CoOlna AT C Miami Beach, Preiident: Daniel J. Li»^ ex. 
•34, ISIT N. W. Ninth Are., Miami. Secre­tary. 
John McLaughlin, '34, of Rhode 

Island, who was vacationing in Miami Beach for two weeks, sent the fol­lowing news of some of the members of the Miami Club: 
Judge Vincent Giblin, '18, is stiU handling the big court cases in Flor­ida as an attorney. His name has been in the headlines concerning some big case he is working on in Tallahassee. However, he promises to be back in time to enjoy a N.D. get-together with the boys who are vacationing here. 
Met Ray Cunningham, '25, the other day in one of the hotels on the Beach. He is still connected with a photo company in Detroit. 
Bill McCormick, '32, is lined up with one of Florida's leading brew­eries, and just one month ago became the proud father of a daughter. 
Charle* "Chilly" WaUh, is at pres­ent the "major domo" in the Florid­ian Hotel and conducts a large bar­becue on the beach. 
Dan Lino, e.x. '34, is doing well by himself with a Commercial Credit Company with offices here in Tampa. 
* 

MILWAUKEE 
Joseph OriSn, '28. 210 E. Mlehlmn St.. President: Jean LaBooIe, '29, 534 E. Maaon St, Secretary. 
* 

MONTANA 
William B. Jones, '28, 411 Power Bids., Helena. President: Rev. John Began. '24, Bishop's House, Great Falls. Secretary. 

Complying with your request made by Art Hughes and yourself, I ap­pointed a committee of six from the membership of the Notre Dame Club of Montana to meet with me and con­sider the problems of Communism in this state. This committee is made up of the following members: ReT. John Regan, secretary of the club. Great Falls, Montana; Earl W. Brown, past president of the club, of Helena, Montana; Dr. R. C Monahan, past president of the club, of Butte, Mon­tana; Hugh O'Keefe. Butte, Montana; Patrick Egan, Jr., Great Falls, Mon­tana; and Joseph Maronick, Great Falls, Montana. 
The committee met with me here in Helena on January 25. We had dinner at the Montana Club and then spent several hours going over this problem. We had as our guest Moit Rev. Joseph Gilmore, Bishop of Hel­ena. We also invited the Most Rev. Edwin V. O'Hara, bishop of Great Falls, but it was impossible for him to be present. 
After some considerable time was spent on the subject of Communism, it was concluded that, while we were not faced with the immediate prob­lem of this materialistic philosophy, yet there were evidences of it here in Montana. Because Montana is so large in area and because our mem­bership is comparatively small, we determined on a program which is set out in a form letter recently mailed by me to all Notre Dame men in the state. 
Both of our bishops are very in­terested in our program and Bishop Gilmore has given to me a hundred or more pamphlets to be mailed to our membership. 
While as I said, the problem of Communism is not as imminent in the State of Montana as it might be, for which we are very happy, yet we appreciate what the Notre Dame men in the larger centers are faced with. While we undertake a program that will be much smaller in scope than theirs, we want them to know that we are with them wholeheartedly and will assist them in any way it is pos­sible to do. 
Bill Jones. 
* 
NEW JERSEY 
Raymond A. Geiser. '32, 446 Eastern Park­
way, Jrvinffton. K. J-, President: Daniel 
O'Kcill. '26, 184 N. Walnut St. E. Oranee, 
N. J., Secretary. 

Highlights of the February meet­ing of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey were the timely remarks of the guest speaker. Judge Thomas Hol­leran, president of the Seton Hall Alumni Association. The 30 attend­ing club members listened to a re­markable case against Communism presented in an aggressive manner by Judge Holleran who stressed the role which must be assumed by Cath­olic college alumni in the offensive against the one-time unseen enemy. Defensive measures will prove inef­fective against seasoned campaigners in the front rank of present-day Com­munistic organizers. You will hear more from us on this particular ques­tion. 
In lighter vein, the Club business was concerned with Universal Notre Dame Night and a Spring dance. Chairman Russell Riley has already signed some outstanding talent for the Universal Night speakers' list and Tom Treacy is lining up his dance committee while promising to pro­duce a social event which will match the Christmas dance of happy mem­ory. 
Finally, thanks to Jack and Keman Wingerler, the '36 football season was screened for us through the camera-eye of Movietone News. That blocking on the part of one official in the So. Cal. game was voted the outstanding play of the season. 

Here's a note in current sports his­tory of Notre Dame: At the N. Y. U. basketball game in Madison Square Garden the ever-present mastermind of the Notre Dame bench, Pete Coyle, reached a new high in his career when some fans rushed down and had him autograph their scorecards. 
Dan O'Neill. 

NEW YORK CITY 
J. Norbcrt Gelson, "26, 1201 Troy Ave., 
Brooklyn, President; Warren S. PoeeL '30. 
70 Wall St., Secretary. 

Judging from the set-up contained in recent issues, I think that the club here has beaten the gun somewhat in regard to our nation-wide crusade against Communism. I suppose you know that our regular weekly broad­cast began on December 17 last and has continued to date, and will, God willing, continue for seven more weeks over Station WLWL, the Uni­versal Broadcasting Corporation. 
President Gelson led oif on Decem­ber 17 and had for his topic "The History and Principles of Commun­ism." Bud Callagy, chairman of the Radio Committee of the club, came next on Christmas Eve, and Dan O'Neill followed on New Year's Eve speaking on "What Chance Would You Have Under Communism?" Jim Dwyer, our lice-president, went to bat on Januarj-7 on "The Philosophy of the Declaration of Independence," and yours truly followed him on the 14th with "Communism and Human Dignitj'." The treasurer, Leo Mc­Laughlin, spoke last Thursday on "The Functions of the State," and Hugh O'Donnell is to sptak tomor­row on "Communism and Christian­itj'." 
Needless to say, we think the broadcasts have been succssful. We have gotten some very nice publicity in the local papers and have received some very abusive letters from the local Communists. This last is what makes me think we are a success for at least the Communists are listening to us. The broadcasts are to continue for seven more Thursdays and all are reminded to tune in the station at 
7:00 P.M. on Thursdays. 

Our regular monthly meetings for December and January have also been productive of great activitj' on all fronts. At the December meet­ing. Jack Adams and John Hinkel spoke concerning the formulation of study clubs to discuss the value and effect of various economic and polit­ical theories so prevalent today. 
Lou Smith, ex. '23, of Paramount Pictures, graciously got us the news­reels of the various Notre Dame foot­ball games this year. 

At the regular meeting in Januarj' we were honored by the New York Chapter of the National Catholic Alumni Federation by conducting the first meeting in their program on "Employer - Employee Eelationships Throughout the Nata'on." Ted Ber­kery is the president of the New York group so you can see that Notre Dame is well represented on it. With Ted acting chairman for the evening and a large gathering present. Dr. Friedrich Baerwald, of the Fordham University Graduate School, address­ed the group by tracing back the course of the employer-employee re­lationship in the United States, After the lecture, general discussion was joined in by the members of the group. 
On January 25, in line with the suggestions contained in the ALUji-Nlis, we held a meeting of the mem­bers interested in organizing the aforementioned study clubs. Com­munism was discussed at the meeting and the means and methods to com­bat it as well. 
Warren Fogel. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Hark G. Kreatzer, '24, 311 California St.,
Bm. 624, San Francisco. President; Elmer 
Wynne, '29, c/o E. S. Townsend Co., 16th 
FL, Russ BWfir., San Francisco, Secretarv. 

NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones, *30, Jones Chemical Com­
pany, Secretary. 
* 

OiCLAHOMA 
Joaeph A. Uoran, '32, 1611 S. Carson. Tnlsa. 
President; Ifarion J. Blake, '33, National 
Bank of Tnlsa Bids;.. Tulsa. Secretary. 
* 

OREGON 
Samnd H. Dolan, '10. 4726 N. E. Alame<Ia 
Drive. Portland, President; J. Ron Sullivan, 
•SO, 611 Board of Trade Bids., Portland, 
Secretary. 

Jack Naftzger, ex. 31, is being congratulated upon his enrollment in­to the Loyal Legion of Proud Fathers. He has his offspring slated for Notre Dame and a great career. 
L. B. "Barney" Macnab, '25, re­ports all going well and a prosperous year ahead of him. Barney, inciden­tally has proven to be one of those individuals that is able to win con­tests that the rest of us enter and get honorable mention in. He hauled in $3,000 recently in a contest spon­sored bj' one of our local newspapers. 
We saw Harold Harstick, '25, the 

other day. Harold is still helping Foster & Kleiser sell their outdoor advertising. He is looking fat and contented. 
Natt McDougall, '33, says that his business, McDougal & Steckmest, ship chandlers, is doing well again after the 90-day maritime strike that; in all a^ects, closed his doors. Natt and his father, Natt, Sr., '00, were among 
those fortunate individuals able to travel south to the N.D.-Southem Cal game last December. 
Roily Sehefter, '33, took time off from his duties as manager of the Portland Baseball Club last August to enter the ranks of those that sneer at their fellows •with bachelorial in­clinations. He married a Portland girl. 
Ray Daugherty, ex. '31, just re­cently announced his engagement. Ray is reported doing a fine job for the Consolidated Freight Lines in their Pendleton, Oregon, office. 
Frank Fransiscovitch, '21, has reached a new high in his political career to date, being elected this year president of the Senate in this, the fair state of Oregon. All of us out here are behind Frank and were glad to see him get this deserved distinction. 
Gene Murphy, '16, recently re­tired from the coaching iield and is now in the real estate business here in Portland. 
Ed Murphy, '27, is a busy man these days. He is superintendent of the mill and woods of the Midway Lumber Company, of Grand Ronde, Oregon. Felix Uherwood, '30, be­came a married man the early part of last October. He married an Indi­ana girl he met while at N.D. She traveled all the way from her home to Yokohama, Japan, to marry Felix, who was unable to get enough time away from his managerial duties in The States Steamship Company office there to come over to the states for the event. 
John BertHng, '08, came through town the other day, according to re­ports from Dom. Calicrate, '08. Call says he, John, and Bill Schmitt, '10, had quite an evening of it. John Ber­tling is with the Sullivan Machinery Company, and is located at Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. Call further in­forms me that John Bertling has a son at Notre Dame now in the class of '38, and it is his hope that when his son graduates it will be possible for the son, the father, and the grandfather. Dr. Bertling of the class of 1880, to be together in June of '38. We're here to say that that \vill be an unusual reunion, indeed! 
A newcomer to the ranks of Ore­gon alumni is Bob Matthews of '11. He has been engaged as coach at the University of Portland. Bob started his coaching at Kenyon College in Ohio, and from there went to Wil­lamette University here in Oregon. Next came the University of Idaho, and then Washington University in St. Louis. We are all wishing Bob luck in his new position. 
Barney Macnab reports that Bill Barrett, '25, came through Portland recently. Dick is travelling for Henry, Clay & Bach out of Seattle, Wash­ington. 
Sam Dolan, of the class of '10, has gone back to the engineering staff at Oregon State college. 
I almost forgot to mention that your correspondent was married Sep­tember 28, last. And everything is going in great shape. 
Ron. Sullivan. 

PARIS 
lioafi P. Harl, 'IS. Paris Ofll«. New York 
Herald-Tribune. Paris, France, President. 
* PEORIA 
Bradley Prescott, ex. '31, Central Illinois Lisht Co., President; Al Gary, Jr., '28, B12 Albany Ave., Secretary. 
Bradley Prescott, president of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria, has named me chairman of the committee for this district for the purpose of taking care of our end of an onslaught that the Alumni Association is going to make against Communism. 
I have just learned that you and Mr. Hughes will be in Peoria soon and I am taking advantage of this letter to welcome you and Mr. Hughes to Peoria and assure you that my humble ser\'ices and time will be yours to command. 
George Sprenger. * RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
Bobert W. Powers. Jr., ex. '29, 22 Roselsnd 
Ave., Cranston, TU.. President: John K. 
Jolly, ex. '18, 457 Pawtuckct Ave., Paw­
tucket, R. I., Secretary. 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert. '22, 402 'nUe * Trust BIdg., 
Phoenix, President. 
• 

PHILADELPHIA WilteT Ridley, '31. f824 N. Itth St. 
President; A. J. Wackerman, '35, 53SS 
Chew Street. Secretary. 
With basketball season in full swing, I wish to report on the prog­ress of Pat Conway and his West Catholic High School team. Pat's boys have been upsetting some teams supposedly much superior and have been showing great improvement with each successive game. 
Speaking of basketball, the Notre Dame team put on a good show for us in beating the strong Penn team and scored more points on them than any team has been able to score this season. 
Bryan Hayes, unofficial Notr e 
Dame scout in this territory, and hobnobber with the top men in the sporting world, spent all last week visiting Philadelphia haberdasheries attempting to buy a sombrero—^which leads us to suspect that he's planning a trip to Mexico to help Connie Mack whip the A's into shape. 
An unconfirmed report comes to me that Frank Holahan has deserted Philly for Wilkes-Barre, in order to be in closer touch with his interests— of-heart as well as of business. 
Jimmie CoH, Andy Din««B and Jo* Norton, second-year men at Jefferson Medical School, report an easy year this year—they can eat their meals without having a biology book before them. Joe is apartment-hunting dar­ing his spare time so that his wife may leave Washington and join him in Philadelphia. 
Jack Kenney seems to have perma­nently deserted Osceola Mills, Penn­sylvania, and has taken root in Phil­adelphia. He and Joe Maxwell are furnishing the spark in the Travelers Insurance Company's Philadelphia of­fice. 
Bob Flint, Kenney's fellow-student at Penn Law School, is marking time while awaiting results on the bar exams he took recently. 
Notre Dame's sophomore represen­tatives at Penn Law, Jack Matthew* and Ray Broderick are still going strong. 
Joe McGratfa, recent N. D. track star, is now training to carry the colors of the Penn Athletic Club of Philadelphia on the boards and cin­ders. 
Jim Nolen recently made a quick trip to Florida to rest up preparatory to a busy spring season in the build­ing game. 
Adrian J. Wackerman. 
* 

ROCHESTER, (Nnr Yoik) 
Frank Norton, '32, 80 Bednrith Terrace. 
President: D. Bernard Hennessy, '34, 119 
Bedford St., Secretary. 
This puncture of our sphinx-like silence will dish up for you the latest dirt concerning the doings in this locality. 
The Christmas dance was a splen­did success. A word of thanks must be extended to Joe Geraghty, Glenn Hatch, John Gillooly, Harold McCabe and Fran Norton, all of whom worked like Trojans on the various commit­tees. The boys certainly proved that there is dynamite in this organization if only we can occasionally catch on fire. 
Notre Dame can be assured of 100 per cent co-operation on our part in connection with its stand on Com­munism. On January 25 we held a meeting at which considerable inter­est was evidenced in this particular phase of Notre Dame activity. So much came of that meeting that we already have involved ourselves edi­torially, orally and what not in cham­pioning the cause of anti-Commun­ism. 
Somewhat selfishly we thank Notre Dame for ^ving this particular alum­ni group a common cause which is serving to knit us together. On Feb­ruary 8 we held a very enjoyable din­ner at which we were favored with a very interesting talk by a locally prominent Catholic layman. The speaker, Mr. Donley, devoted his en­
tire speech to this timely topic of "Communism." In search of addi­tional information we are sending to the Paulist Press for a number of pamphlets which we expect to dis­tribute to our entire membership. 
President Fran Norton handled reservations for the Notre Dame dele­gation which attended the Notre Dame-Canisius game in Buffalo on February 15. FVom all reports those who wended westward on that partic­ular date were well repaid for their venture. 
The tragic note in our comment at this time concerns the death of Mal­colm McVean. Red's departure from our ranks will be deeply felt. How­ever, the memory of his sheer good character assures us that Red has al­ready taken his place with the SUC­CESSFUL MEN OF NOTRE DAilE. Somewhat along the same vein, we express our sincere sympathy to Joe FJynn whose infant daughter depart­ed this life of late. 
This department plans on doing a little heavy rabble-rousing in order to insure an enthusiastic turnout for the broadcast meeting of March 5. A report of our success in this re­gard will ensue shortly thereafter. 
Bemie Hennessy. 
* 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (lilinoM) 
Paul J. Fry. "27. 210 W. Third St.. Diion, nU. President: Gerald Jones. '22, 105 E. Second St.. Oixon. DI., Secretary. 

SAN ANTONIO 
William V. Dielmann. Jr.. '25, 107 Thdma Drive. President: Edward G. Conroy, 'JO, 204 E. Craie PI.. Secretary. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Tliomas F. Van Aarle. '21, Standard Oil Co., Sacinaw, Mich., President: William 0. Hnr­ley, -25, 117 Cherry St.. Saginaw, Mich., Secretary, 
* 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Rodolph Kelly, ex. '17. 909 S. Park Ave., President: Paul D. McConndl, '32, 120 S. Walnut St . Secretary. 

At our last luncheon, January 21, the club was host to Senator George Maypole, who was then acting-Gover­nor of the State of IlUnois. He is probably the first Notre Dame man to hold that honor. Senator Maypole was recently elected to the presidency pro-tem of the senate; and it was in pursuit of these duties that he was governor in Mr. Horner's absence. 
News is received that Joe Church­man, '33, was married to Miss The­resa Peldhausen, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame, January 23. Joe is traveling for the Internal Revenue Department. 
Chuck Corcoran, '17, brings back some experiences from Cairo, Illi­nois. He was in charge of the state highways for that territory during the recent flood. 
Paul McConnell, 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (IndiuB) 
Louis F. Buckley, '28. 718 E. Corby Bhrd., South Bend. Ind.. President: ClartBce Haid­ine. '25, South Bend Trihnne, South Bead. Ind., Secretary. 
Committees to arrange for a joint dinner meeting of the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley and the Villagers club, students' organization, were announced recently. The din­ner is scheduled for Monday, March 1, in the Columbia Athletic club. 
The committees headed by George Beamer and Kurt Simon are as fol­lows: 
Dr. John B. BcrtclinE, Dr. F, W. Bae<kner, Dr. R. M. McDonald, Dr. F. J. VnrDillat. Dr. 
M. 3. Thornton, Dr. Ulysses RothbsUer. Geo. 
L. Kropff, Vitas G. Jones. Jndse J. Elmer Peak, G. A. Farabauxh, Paul Butler. 
Ralph Feis, Albert Doyle. W. Hovard Ed­wards, Bernard J. VoU, Thomas L. Hidwy, Frank E. Herinir. Georse L. O'Brien, Loais BraffKner, John T. Voedisch. 
Anenst Bondi. Alexis CoQuillard. John He-Grath. EuKene Payton. John E. HeXntyre, Er­nest M. Morris. E. R. McEndarfer, J. Frank Oehlhoffen, William F. Sheehan. 
Georee Koch, Cesarc S. Janesheski, Charles Hafron, Edward J. Mcehan, Clarence Hard­ing, John W. Gibbons. Daniel J. Mahoney, Joseph M. Stephenson, Earl E. Reeder. 
Bernard J. McCaffery, Frank Sowa, Mene­fec Clements, Callix E. Miller, Vincent F. Fagan, Grorer Malone. M. L. Petttt, 

Joining forces, the students of the University and the St. Joe Valley Club rushed 120 pairs of hip boots and six dozen pairs wool sox to Louisville by special airplane at the height of the flood situation, in re­sponse to a special appeal. 
Half the boots and all the sox were donated by the Mishawaka Rubber & Woolen amis (Ball Band) through 
C. L. Wanamaker, factory manager. Contributions of the students to flood relief paid for the remaining boots and the club paid for the use of the plane and the services of the pilot, Ray Van De Vere, of the Indiana Air Service. 
Walter Clements, Lou Buckley, president of the club. Registrar Bob Riordan and John Schindler formed the emergency committee which acted for the club. Father John Cavanaugh offered the financial aid from the stu­dents. 
* 

ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Matthew W. Wois. e.^. '23. 330 Metro­politan BIdjr„ President: David J. Rieller, Jr.. '30, 718 Locust. Secretary. 

SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Harry J. Corcoran. '27. 82 Port Wstsoo St. CorUand, N. Y.. President: Donald J. Shw­hy, '33, 104 Glahn Ave., Syracuse, Secretary. 
* 

TIFFIN, OHIO 
C. J. Schmidt, '11. 260 Mdmore St.. Presi­dent: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
* 

TOLEDO 
Edward J. Hagerty, '28. 536 Woodville. Pres­ident: Raymond L. Tillman, '25, 2027 Bret-ton PI„ Secretary. 

The anti - Communism campaign was initiated and endorsed by the club on January 25, 1937 at a meet­
March. 1937 

ing called for that purpose. • The plan was received with enthusiasm and, as a result, a committee of five was appointed to carry on an adopted program of securing speakers famil­iar with the subject in preparation for a more intensive drive. 
On January 25 we also held an election of officers. The following are now at the helm: Edward J. Hag­erty, '29, 536 Woodville, president; Frank Murray, vice-president; Ray 
L. Tillman, '25, 2027 Bretton Place, secretary; Urban Gradel, treasurer; and myself, trustee. 
N. M. Scharf. 
* 

TRI-CITIES (Illinoii-Iowa) 
George UUmeyer. '23, Peoples' Ught Co., Holine. HI., President: Elmer W. Besten. '27. 1711 W. SLxth St, Davenport, Iowa, Secretary. 
* 

TRIPLE CITIES (N«w York) 
JoMvh Hunt, Binghamton. President. Wn-Uam Yeager, '34, K Vine St., Binghamton, Secretary. 
* 

TRI-STATE 
F. Wendell Lcnsing, '30, 601 Bayard Park, Enuurille. Ind., President: Ralph F. Heger. '25. Il l Washington Ave., Ap t D., Evans­ville, Ind., Secretary. 

Wendell Lensing, president of the club, got up to Mishawaka, ^vith his wife and child, after leaving his home in Evansville to the flood's mercies. When he stopped in at the Alumni Office at the height of the tragedy he expected to return to Evans^'ille in a few days, leaving his family in Mishawaka temporarily. 
Many of the Notre Dame boys in Evansville were hard hit by the flood, Wendell said, notably Torn Conroy and Jack McGrath. 
The club had planned an outstand­ing meeting in Reitz Memorial High School, Evansville, for January 25. Able and prominent speakers had chosen to open the anti-Communism campaign locally. All that, of course, went by the boards with the coming of the tragedy. 
TWIN CITIES (MinnesoU) 
Gerald F. Conway, '32, David Inc., First Naf] Bk. BIdtr., St Paul, Minn.. President: Joseph R. Sehroeder, *81, 219 Fremont Ave., K.. Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 

UTAH 
Raymond R. Brady. '24, 206 Keams BIdg.. Salt Lake City, President; Cyril Rarbeeke, '19, 64 F. St, Salt Lake City, Secretary. 

UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kelley. '22, Peoples' Gas * Electric BIdg.. President: Joseph W. FuHem. 'SI, 1621 Neilson St. Secretary. 

WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paul Kennedy. '24. Templeton. Ind.. Presi­dent Emmett Ferguson. '32, Wallace BIdg.. lAfayette. Ind., Secretary. 
* 

WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave.. President; James M. Monaghan. *27, 44 Ayer St. Secretary. 

WASHINGTON, D. C 
Thomas S. Ilarker. '29, Sboreham Bids.. Washinston, President; Paul Berets. '27. 815 18th St.. N.W., Washington. Secretary. 
The annual winter dance of the Notre Dame Club of Washington, 
D. C, held on February 5, was an eminently successful affair from both the sociable and financial angles. The turn-out of N. D. men was a repre­sentative one, and assures the club of an actire future season, which in­cludes regular monthly meetings, the Rockne Communion and breakfast, and an early Summer dance. 
Due to the transient character of the club membership, it has been dif­ficult to contact all N. D. men in this city, but we believe that our pains­taking efforts to obtain, and keep abreast of changes in, the names, ad­dresses and occupations of all Notre Dame men in Washington and vicin­ity, will result in the development of a permanent and active club. 
Paul Beretz. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Joseph Bach. '2S, 5S10 Hobart St.. Pitts, burgh. President: 'William Magarrall, '32. 1439 Franltlin Ave.. Willcinshurg, Secretary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
JohD J. Dempsey, '95, Dempsey Lumber Co., Tacoma, President; Robert I. Plgott, '82, 3603 W. Manning St, Seattle, SecreUry. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Thomu F. Howley, '11. Citlzens-Peosln 
Trust Co., Wheeling, President: George Sur­
gus, '28, 2II1 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Seton, S.C., St. Mary's Col­lege, Holy Cross, Ind., President: Sister M. Angelice, B.V.M., St. Joseph Convent, Mt Carmel, Dubuque, Iowa. Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, '29, 1S48 Quinn. Presideat; 
Charles Cushwa. '31, 46S Madera Ave., 
Secretary. 

ATHLETICS 
(Continued from Page 156) 

one thing after another, and we don't mean running arotmd the track—^for most of the boys have been too crippled to run. 
But, being mildly superstitious, we believe that the tough luck has just about run out and that the track team will rally as the basketball team did and finish up with a highly cred­itable record. In other words, their luck is due for a change. 
At that, the worst they've done so far is to break even in two dual matches, lost their first to Indiana, and winning the second from Mar­quette. To list the injuries, illnesses, shin splints, sore feet, family ill­nesses, and one thing and another which have beset various members of the team would necessitate omitting basketball this month, so we'll ask you to take our word for it that "Nick" has had his troubles. 
Indiana's well-balanced team , headed by Don Lash, of whom you must have heard, won a 60 to 26 de­cision from the Irish in the opener. It was hard to believe that the Irish defeated the Big 10 championship "Fighting Hoosiers" outdoors in the state meet last year, while watching the Cardinal jersies drag the yam down along the straightaway past the finish line this year. 
To win three first places in ten events, Notre Dame athletes were forced to tie one meet record and set another. John Levicki broke Marty Brill's shot put mark by nearly five feet with his heave of 48 feet 2% inches. Harold Langton tied the meet record of 12 feet 6 inches in the pole vault. 
James Smith, the nation's out­standing distance runner, set a meet record to win the two-mile for Indi­ana in y minutes 33.5 seconds. The Hoosier mile relay team set a meet record of three minutes 28,8 second, 
1.2 seconds faster than the old mark. 
The Irish bounced back against Marquette the following week, to win a 54 to 41 decision, despite their un­familiarity with Marquette's small board track, and the necessity of wearing new shoes ordered aspecially for the boards. The team came down with an epidemic of sore feet as a result, and they showed lots of cour­age in winning. 
Levicki again distinguished himself in the shot, setting a gym record of 46 feet 3'/i inches, nearly a foot bet­ter than the former record. Greg Rice, sophomore 880 and mile star, and Bill Mahoney, high and low hurdler, each took two firsts to lead scoring. Eddie Burke of Marquette, colored sophomore, set a meet and gym record of 6 feet 6 inches in the high jump. 
The next meet is at Notre Dame with Drake, which has probably the second best (second to Indiana's) dis­tance runners in the country. Then comes the traditionally well-balanced Illinois squad at Champaign. The way things have been breaking, we'll risk a prediction on victory in one of the two meets—and will go fur­ther to wager that the Irish will de­fend its Central Intercollegiate in­door crown successfully, March 12 and 13. 
Lack of reserve strength has hurt more than anything else in the two meets to date. Last year, with Notre Dame's greatest team, Nicholson had as many as five point winners avail­able in a single event, and no less than two in any event, with the ex­ception of the high jump. 
But our hunch is that the lads will come into peak foim under the care­ful guidance of J. P. "Nick" and Trainer "Scrap" ¥0002; a bit of a track man himself in his day, and that at peak fonn the Irish will have thei r characteristic balance and 
power. 
GOLF 
Director of Athletics • Ehner F. Layden has announced Notre Dame's "best balanced" golf schedule, to be played by what the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, coach of golf, be­lieves will be Notre Dame's "best balanced team." 
The Irish play five matches at home and five way, meeting seven Big Ten teams during the regular, season, and also meeting Indiana during the state college meet to be held here sometime during the week 
of May 24. 
Capt. Win Day, Jr., Pat Malloy, Herman Green and Bill Taylor, ^ lettermen, have been lost to the 1937 team. Returning lettermen are Capt. Lou Fehlig, Bill Castleman, Bob Wilke, and Harry Baldwin, all sen­iors except Castleman. Sophomore prospects include Bud Donovan, Al Mailhes, Gene Milboom, and Charles Bennett. John Marbach and Frank Leselyoung are valuable returning veterans. 
Chet Keeley, course professional, is at present supervising the installa­tion of a watering system on four holes. Eventually, the entire course will have watered fairways. Some 150 trees and 200 shrubs hare been added to the course during the past year. It is considered one of the hardest courses in the middle west. 
In the seven-year history of golf at Notre Dame, the Irish have copped the state individual champion^p seven times and the team title six times, missing only in 1932. In dual competition, the Irish have been un­defeated four years, losing only four matches in 53 starts. Pitt, Purdue, Northwestern, and Louisiana State turned in the victories, the latter be­ing the only team to win from the Irish during the course of the 10­match 1936 schedule. Notre Dame has also ranked consistently among the first three or four teams in the Na­tional Intercollegiate tournament. 
The schedule follows: 
April 10—Washington V. at Notre Dame. April IT—Ponftie at Lafayette. April 19—Chicago at Notre Dame. Apra 2«—Ohio State at Cohonbns. Ma y 1—^Minnesota at Hinaeapoiis. Ma y 0—Detroit at Notre Dune. Ma y 8—Northwestern at Evanston. Ma y 15—Wisconsin at Notre Dame. Ma y IT—Michigan State at Notre Dame. Ma y 22—nlinois at Champaign. 
»




THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Christine Frankovic and Mi­chael J. Bishko, '30. 
Miss Catherine O'Shaughnessy and John M. Herbstritt, ex. '32. 
Miss Martha McNess and George Menard, Jr., '34. 
Miss Donna Pan-is and Wallace Fromhart, '36. 
Marriages 
Miss Marj- Paulissa McGraw and Francis J. Galvin, '23, were married February 6, in Chicago. 
Miss Kathryn McManus and John 
Q. Adams, '26, were married Janu­ary 2, in Montclair, New Jersey. 
Miss Louise Deutsch and Regis La­velle, '27, were married last Novem­ber 26, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
SKss Lorraine Michels and Theo­dore A. Weist, ex. '27, were married Februarj' 6, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Loretta Demski and Bernard Korzeneski, '28, were married Feb­ruary 6, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Kuth Cole and Edmund Finn, '28, were married February 7, in Salida, Colorado. 
Miss Mildred May Thieme and W. Albert Stewart, '33, were married Februarj' 1, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Ladelle Falvey and Fred J. Piowaty, ex. '37, were married Janu­ary 30, in Chicago. 

Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry J. Cullen, '23, announce the birth of a daughter, Barbara Cecile, on Januarj' 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jehn G. Byrne, '23, announce the birth of a son, John G., Jr., on January 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Norbert Engels, '26, announce the birth of a daughter, Julie Ann, January 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Reisert, ex. '30, announce the birth of a son, William A., HI, on February 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Parent, '30, an­nounce the birth of a son, Fred, Jan­uarj- 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Victor MarUel, '30, announce the birth of a son, John Robert, on February 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. William Sullivan, '31, announce the birth of a daughter, on February 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Allan P. McEachem, '32, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Kathleen Mary, January 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. James I. Godfrojr, ex. '34, announce the birth of a daugh­ter, Mary Elizabeth, Januai->- 23. 

Deaths 
Paul J. Ragan, A.B. '97, LL.B. '00, 60 years old, long a prominent To­ledo attorney and a noted courtroom orator, died in Toledo on February 5 following a heart attack. He is survived by Mrs. Ragan and by one sister. Father Joseph Burke, C.S.C., represented the University at the fu­neral in Maumee, Ohio, a suburb of Toledo. 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, of which Mr. Ragan had been a brilliant member, gathered on the evening before the funeral to re­cite the rosary for him. The club was likewise largely represented at the funeral itself. 
Winner of the Breen medal, Mr. Ragan was renow-ned as an orator even in his student days. He was also an editor of the Sdiolastic and, between 1897 and 1900, was an in­structor on the campus, teaching Eng­lish, Latin and Greek. He received many awards for scholastic excel­lence. 
Notre Dame suffered a distinct loss on January 2 w-ith the death in Phila­delphia of James A. Flaherty, former supreme knight of the Knights of Co­lumbus. The University honored Mr. Flaherty with the honorary degree of doctor of laws in 1926. 
Joseph Patrick Hennessy, a student at Notre Dame in 1930-31, later an attorney in Columbus, Ohio, was killed there on January 31. He was a native of San Antonio, Texas. 
Malcolm R. McVean, '31, Roches­ter, New York, died on February 9, following an automobile accident. Further details of the tragedy are contributed by John Bergan in his '31 class news. 
John C. Walton, ex. '38, of Cleve­land Heights, Ohio, died Tuesday, February 23, following an automo­bile accident in Painesville, Ohio. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sym­pathy to: Walter Mclnemy, '06, upon the death of his brother; Rev. Joseph 
J. McCartney, C.S.C, '26, upon the death of his father; Frank E. Bering, '98, upon the death of his mother; Dr. D. M. Nigro, OS. '14, upon the death of his father; Joseph McNa­mara, '29, upon the death of his fa­ther; Cyril Fites, '22, upon the death of his wife; Sister Agnes Alma, O.P., '23, upon the deaths of her father and mother; James, '33, Randolph, '32, and John Kenny, ex. '35, upon the deaths of their father and moth­er; George A. OS. '09, and Lester W. Rempe, OS. '09, upon the death of their mother. 


Personals 
Before 1880 Se<:"-<!tary: Hon.T.F.Gal­
oeror e loo u ,^^^_,^ ntchburg. Mass. 
Judge Thomas F. Gallagher, '76, of Fitchburg, Massachusetts, was hon­ored on February 1 by the Worcester County Bar Association for his dis­tinguished service as a practicing at­torney in the county for more than 50 years. The occasion was the fif­tieth anniversary banquet of the asso­ciation in Worcester at which many noted persons were present. 
Judge Gallagher retired recently from the board of trustees of the Fitchburg public library after more than 25 years of outstanding accom­plishment in that position. He had been re-appointed by successive may­ors since his first appointment in October, 1911. 
* 
1880-1885 Seoetair: Prof. Robert M. 
.www->»ou Anderson. CirderUle. Ohio. 
* 
1886 Secretarr: Michael O. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Ramllton, Ohio. 
1887-1888 Seaetary: J. L. Heineman, Connersrille. Indiana. 

1887 GOLDEN ANNIVERSARy RE-UNION 

June 4, 5, 6 
Jggg Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Csmp New Orleans, Louisisaa. 
1890-1893 Secretary: I^jnis P. Chute. T Univ. Av., UinneapoIIs, Minn. The members of classes '90-'93 un­doubtedly entertain a sense of secur­

ity that Notre Dame has engaged in a militant campaign, by speech and press, against the inroads of sophis­try of the Communists. Fearless, positive enunciation of Catholic doc­trine and convincing instruction as to its soundness, if persistently and clearly driven home to wavering minds, predominantly sincere, cannot fail to bear fruits of salutary control. 
Pointing the way to the Catholic philosophy of life and objective doc­trines of the Church, as exemplified in the great Encyclicals, notably of Leo XIII and Pius XI, together with the present new impetus of Catholic Press, will turn to a correct mode of life many a floundering soul earnest­ly seeking to adjust itself to sane guiding principles of truth, in con­trast with the violent, unchristian ma­terialism of Communism. 
L. P. Chute. 

189 4 S«retary: Hueh A. O'Donnell, 1 W. 67th St., New York aty. 
* 

189 5 Secretory: Eustace Cullman, Sr.. S60 Phclnn Bids.. San Francisco. Calif. 
189 S Secretary: •William P. Bnmi, S87 
Willard Ave., Michigan City. Indiana. 
* 

189 7 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara, St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Demcns. Mich. 
Father MacNamara writes that he has had four replies to the letters sent to the class concerning the class re-union in June. 
Hunter Bennett has slight hopes of returning. 
Joe Sullivan, Charlie Bryan and Martin Costello are definitely plan­ning to be among those present. 
Father is hoping for more favor­able answers soon. 
E. L. "Happy" Holland, '99, tells Father that he intends surely to be at Commencement. 
* 

Jgg g Secretary: William C. Kezler, 9th A Sycamore Sta., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
189 9 Secretory: Dr. Jo<eph P. Duane, '18 Jefferson Blvd., Peoria, HI. 
1900 
lon i Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan. 1300, 139 N. Clark St, ChlcaBo. HI. 
190 2 Secretary: C. C. Mitchell. 110 S. Deai1}oni St.. Box 3. Chlcaeo, HI. George "Studie" Lins reports from Tucumeari, New Mexico, that he oc­casionally sees Angus McDonald, president of the Southern Pacific Xines. The two of them played on the same football teams at Notre Dame. In addition to his broomcom and broom business, Mr. Lins oper­ates a modem motor hotel on U. S. 
•66in Tucumeari. 
George Maypole, of Chicago, pres­ident pro-tempore of the State Sen­ate in Springfield, recently reigned for a few days as acting governor of Illinois by -virtue of his Senate posi­tion. He subbed for Governor Hor­ner who had gone to Washington for the presidential inauguration. 
190 3 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bide., Milwaukee, Wis. 
190 4 Secretary: Robert Proctor, Moneer Bids.. Elkhart. Indiana. 
190 5 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSallc St., Chlcaso. HI. 
190 6 Secretary: Tbomas A. Lilly, 811-13 Paulsen Bldsr., Spokane. Wash. Juvenile Referee Walter Mclner­ney, of South Bend, recently address­ed a father-and-son dinner sponsored by three scouting units in the Ep­worth Memorial Episcopal Church, South Bend. 
190 7 Secretary: RCT. Thomas E. Burke. C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
190 8 Secretary: Frank X. Coll, BulUey Bolldini;, aevdand, Ohio. 
190 9 Secretary: E. P. Qeary, Notre Dame. 
Indiana. 

191 0 Secretary; Rev. U. L. Morlarty. 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
191 1 Secretary: Fred Steers. 1066 First National Bank BIdpr.. Chicaeo. HI. Father Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, is giving a series of lectures on science before the faculty and students of St. Mary's College. 
* 

191 2 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St, Plttshursh. Pa. 
1912 SILVER ANNIVERSARY RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

Ben Kaiser writes the foUo-wing encouraging news: 
The latest survey shows that there will be at least 20 men present at our Silver Anniversary next June. Here they are: 
Fred J. Boucher, Edward M. Bruce, Leo J. Condon, Henry I. Dockweiler, Walter Duncan, Joseph F. Donahue, Forrest Fletcher, Dr. Joseph A. Flynn, Rev. Edward H. Howard, B. J. Kaiser. 
Jay L. Lee, Theodore J. Lemer, Joseph B. McGlynn, Donnelly P. Mc­Donald, F. L. Mendez, John P. Mur­phy, Judge Elmer J. Peak, Philip J. Phillip, Tom Quigley, Judge Ed. H. Savord. 
Walter Duncan says: "I am looking forward with great anticipation to seeing a lot of the old class. I sug­gest that we try to have all the old timers back not later than noon of June 4, so that we can have a little time for ourselves before the big crowd arrives." 
Stoney McGIynn has this to say: "You can mark me up as being pres­ent even if I have to go in a wheel­chair. I am looking forward with great deal of interest to this re-union as I am fondly cherishing the hope that a great number of the old timers will be back with their potguts and gray or bald heads." 
Judge Savord thus opines: 'Tor several years I have been looking for­ward to the time of the Silver Anni­versary Ke-union of the class of 1912. If I am alive and able to hobble about on even one leg, I certainly expect to be at Notre Dame on June 4, 5, and 6." 
Fred Boucher declares: "I shall make every effort to be present at our Silver Anniversary Re-union, and I am writing Harry Cullen, who was president of our law class. I fe d certain that he will attend, and it may be that we shall, between us, offer some suggestions that can be worked out satisfactorily, in respect to any general program that you may have in mind." 
Joe Donahue suggests: "I have no suggestions to make, except that I hope we can arrange with the Uni­versity to have a special dinner meet­ing of those who attend, in the Fac­ulty Dining Room." 
This is only a sample of what some of your classmates have to say about the Re-union. It looks like a push­over already, but we need your push just the same, so why not write me and tell me you will be there. Re­member that our big Re-union will be 25 years hence and many of us will not be there. So do make your ap­pearance JtOW. 
191 3 Secretary: James J. Devitt. 921 zineers' Bids.. Qevdand. Ohio. 
191 4 SecKtaiy: Fmk H. Hayei. 4M Bank of America Bids.. Anaheim. Cal. 
Cecil Birder recently conducted the combined choral clubs of St, Catherine's College and St. Thomas' College in an appearance with the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra on the University of Minnesota campus. His efforts and the accomplishments of the young singers were rewarded by generous praise from Twin City music critics. 
This inspiring news was forwarded to the ALUMNUS by Class Secretary Frank Hayes, with much praise for Cecil and the note that he took a lead­ing part in dramatics while he was at Notre Dame. 
igie Secttttiy: Junei E. Santord, 1624 
Farwdl Ave.. Chicago. 111. 
1916 Secretary: Timothy P. Galvin. Ilrrt Tmst Bids., Hammond. Ind. 
1917 Secretary: Edward J. McOsker, 10« 
S. Union St.. Elgrin. HI. 
Jim Hayes was the author of an interesting article in the Januai-y is­sue of U. S. Air Services, a magazine published in the interests of flying. He told of his experiences on an air trip to the West Coast. 
1918 Secretary: John A. Lemmer, 1110— 8th Ave., S.. Kscanaha, Mich. 
19I Q Secretary: Oarence Bader, 650 Pierce 
Street, Gary, Indiana. 
Dr. Fred N. Bonine, LL.D. '19, the 
noted eye specialist, was honored Feb. 
25 by Niles, Michigan, with a ban­
quet which recognized his 50 years of 
practice. The gathering, sponsored by 
the Niles Chamber of Commerce, at­
tracted famous figures from a wide 
area. Father Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., 
represented the University. 
* 
1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black 
* " Bide.. Ix» Anceles, Calif. Dillon Patterson, president of the Federation of Musicians, Local 278, South Bend, \vas the generalissimo of a recent musicians' banquet. Frank Pedrotty was the master of ceremon­
ies and Dean Jim McCarthy and Prof. Vince Fagan were on the program. 
1921 Secretary: Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Term­inal Tower, Cleveland. Ohio. Gordon Taylor, of LaPorte, presi­dent of the Indiana Elks' Association, was one of many big Elks who at­tended the "Notre Dame Night" initi­ation of the South Bend lodge on February 15. Father Wendell Cor­coran, C.S.C, gave the principal ad­dress, and Joe Boland was master of ceremonies. Joe Casasanta, "with the Notre Dame Glee Club, and Vince Fagan appeared on the program. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Aahe, Buffalo Ath­letic Qnb, Buffalo, Kew Tork. 
Aaron Huguenard, South Bend, was a presiding judge in the Superior Court in February in the absence of Judge Bingham who had undergone an operation. 
The best wishes of the class will go to Hunk Anderson in his appoint­ment as line coach at Michigan. 
* 
1923 Secretary': Paul Castner, Hartford. Conn. 
Leo "Dutch" Rieder, South Bend, attorney, was added to the executive board of the St. Joseph Valley Boy Scout organization at a recent elec­tion. Other Notre Dame men active in the Scout movement in the same area include To>n Hickey, Professor Ray 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hoyer, County Prosecutor George Beamer, Russell Downey and Coach Elmer Layden. 
Harry Flannery, news commenta­tor for KMOX, St. Louis, visited South Bend following hii exciting ex­periences in broadcasting from the worst of the flooded area for the Co­lumbia system. Making use of air­plane and motor boat especially equipped with short wave sets, Harry covered both the Ohio and the Missis­sippi rivers. He saved several persons from drowning and helped carry many others to safety. 
1924 Secretary: 3. F. Hayes, Wm. F. Ped­rick * Co., Emp. State Bide., N.Y.C. Registrar Bob Riordan is slowly re­covering from a severe attack of ery­sipelas which had him confined to St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, for some time. 
1925 Secretary: John W. Scallan, 79 E. Adams St., Chicaso, HI. That enthusiastic alumnus, Brother Lawrence Joseph, M.A. '25, has trans­ferred his activities from Christian Brothers High School, St. Joseph, Missouri, to St. Patrick's Academy, Chicago. 
* 
1926 Secretary: Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 86 Hawthorne Ave., East Oranse, N.J. 
John O'Donnell, down there in Maysville, Kentucky, was in one of the worst flood sections. At the height of the disaster he appealed (by radio messages) to the Univer­sity for special aid. Father O'Hara was able, through the Red Cross, to help in fulfilling his request. 
* 
1927 Secretary: Edmund DeClerg. 8118 Ellis Ave., CblcmjTo, HI. 
1928 Secretary: Louis Buckley, 718 B. Corhy SL, South Bend, Ind. 
Hal Hudson, of Columbia's Chica­go offices, is one of the adapters of 
C. B. Kelland's "Scattergood Baines" stories for radio. They are expected to go on a nation-wide hook-up soon under a chewing gum sponsor. 
* 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. UcNamar*. 231 Wisconsin Street, Indianapolis, Ihd. Francis Jones, South Bend attor­ney, discussed the Catholic position regarding divorce at a dinner-meet­ing of the Catholic Forum on Feb­ruarj' 15. He's also collecting a lot of free luncheons from local lunch­eon clubs on the strength of his Bali lecture. 
Professor Paul Bartholomew is ac­tive in opposition to President Roose­velt's Supreme Court plan. He's spoken recentlj' on the subject before several local groups. From the cam­pus studio of WSBT-WFAM, South Bend, he also opposed the plan, with Professor Louie Buckley speaking in 
March, 1937 
favor of it. Father John Ryan, C.S.C, was chairman of the discussion. 
President Themas S. Markey, of the Washington, D. C. club, has moved to Akron, Ohio, where he will be in the legal department of the Firestone Company. 
1930 Secretary: Bernard W. Conroy, U09 Kenneth St., New Ketislntrton, Pa. Art Kane, '31, gave some real '30 dope in announcing a new son for Vic Martzel. He said: 
. Vic Martzel, formerly of Mt. Car­mel, Chicago, is now a true son of the South. He has been here since last July working in the oil field for the United Gas System. He lived in Vivian, Louisiana, until late in the Fall when he moved down here. Vic's new address is 246 Wichita, Shreve­port, Louisiana. 
* 
1931 Secretary: John Bersan, 828 B. Col­fax Ave., Sooth Bend, Ind. Here is more pay dirt from your walking delegate, Mister Bergan: 
News of the death of Malcolm "Red" McVean following an automo­bile accident in Rochester, New York, on February 7 was indeed a shock to his many friends and classmates at Notre Dame. Word from John Dor­schel, a lifelong friend, disclosed that Red died instantly and that his com­panion in the accident is seriously injured. Red had only recently a good job and was making rapid strides toward advancement after a couple of lean years of disappoint­ments. He was a real Notre Dame man and a great character, and dur­ing his campus days was one of the outstanding personalities of our class. We shall certainly miss him, and trust that all of his classmates remember him in their prayers. The secretary has arranged to have a Mass offered for the repose of his soul in the very near future at the request of the class at Notre Dame. 
Ben Cakes, in town for the N.D.­niinois game, disclosed that Jim Doyle and himself put on a very successful re-union dinner in Chicago for mem­bers of the class of '31 and '32. About 77 attended. 

Travel note: Jerry Crowley winter-cruising in the Pacific with the West Indies as his destination. Visitor: Charlie Cushwa in South Bend and a grand visit and session of reminiscing. Charlie is kept busy selling tunnel supplies between Youngstown and Chicago. 
New salesman: Louie O'Shea in Chicago in the interests of Vince. Builder; Walt Ridley aiding in the construction of a large bridge at Shohola, Pennsylvania. Teacher: Dick Baker teaching the young la­dies of Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, the teaching of Plato and St. Thomas Aquinas. Industrialists: Mart Dow­ling manning an important job in tho Atlantic Stamping Company, Eoch­ester. New York, and Bob Callahan also in Rochester with the White Wire Works. Producer: Vince Sulli­van selling chickens and ducks in central New York. New Address: Tom Ashe now receiving his mail at 2415 Flower Avenue, Huntington Park, California. 
Had a nice letter from Tom Mona­han, and he tells me that the broom-corn outlook in the .A.rcola district is vei-y bi-ight this yeai-. He relates that Mike Teders is in Fort Wayne with the Dictaphone Company. Paul "Pa­pa" Grant is also getting along great with the Illinois Public Ser\-ice, and i.= still in the Mattoon vicinity. Paul Bott is preparing to middle-aisle it soon in Logansport. He has a nice Job with the Gossai-d Company in his home town. Dr. Joe Kehoe is com­pleting his interneship this year in Youngstown. 
-\n amusing incident in the Louis­ville ilood situation was that of Pierre Anglemier. It seems as though Pierre called to see a friend in New jilbany for a Saturday night engagement. The evening passed and the Ohio river rose. He decided to go home, but the bridge which he crossed from Louisville was washed away. Thus Pierre made the trip home via South Bend whence he came with friends three days later. 
Frank Dittoe and Ken Durbin are now engaged in the life insui-ance business in the South Bend territoiy as is Passaic Jack McGrath who is assistant manager for the -American United. Paul Duncan is happily mar­ried, living in LaSalle, Illinois, and working for the Marquette Cement Company. Sheridan "Red" Wells performed notably in the Paducah flood when he worked very ably with the relief organizations aiding the Paducah flood sufferers. Frank De-Winter is managing a haberdasheiy store in Bloomington, Illinois, and often sees Ralph Dalton who is work­ing there. 
Plans are now under way for our six- year informal re-union to be held in South Bend on June 4, and will be announced in a subsequent issue of the ALUMXUS. 
Father Francis Weber, C.S.C., writes from -Austin, Te.xas: 
I am of the Class of 1931. For the past two years, I have been work­ing in a new missionarj' iield, among the Negi-oes of the Southwest. I have been doing pioneer work, trying to build up a new Negro Parish. Al­though this capital city of Texas has over ten thousand Negroes, it is just beginning to have the first Catholic church devoted to them. It is diffi­cult work, but we have been blessed by many conversions thus far. I am now ti-j-ing to scrape together funds for a new church which I hope to build this coming Summer. 
Art Kane writes from Shreveport, Louisiana again: 
I had to forsake the sunny Louisi­ana soil and take a jaunt to Tulsa, Oklahoma, where I encountered a foot of snow and George Vlk, '31. Spent a couple of evenings with George and Mrs. Vlk. George, the proud papa of a three-year-old girl, is getting fatter evei-y day. We re­ally had the bull by the tail and were slinging it around when we were to­gether. 
See Fred Carmody quite often. Also Henry Horka. Hank and his wife and my better half and myself get together quite often; usually it is over a bridge table. To date, Henrj­and myself are a few games up. 
Bob Braekel, '29, dropped in on me last Sunday night. He and his parents were enroute to Jacksonville, 
•Florida, for a couple of weeks of sunshine. Bob is going places as an architect. 
Had the pleasure not long ago of hearing the former N. D. prof, Davie Weir, address the Shreveport whole­sale credit dealers at their annual banquet. Talked to Mr. Weir a while afterward. 
I'm changing my mailing address. From now on (I hope) you may send my mail to 307 Willcinson, Shreve­port. 
* 

193 2 Secretary: Herbert Glorelo. 9005 188th St. HoHia. U.. New Tork. 
1932 FIVE-yEAR RE-UNION June 4, 5, 6 

Transportation Chairman Tom Ma-gee comes through from 5801 Chew St., Germantown, Philadelphia: 
"Who's going to drive? Handicaps will be allotted to those from "over the mountains"! -A. penny postcard's all you need; Jim Farley ^vil\ take care of the rest. 
Nearest candidates so far are Nick Ruffing (and by the way, through a slip-up, it appeared in the Febru­ary ALUMNUS that I visited him ra­ther than that he honored me by mail)—and Leo Clark. Nick prom­ised three months ago to be on hand, but made no mention of motoring. 
Now comes word from Leo. A new position as probation officer in the southern district of New York Fed­eral Court (207 Federal Courts Building, Foley Square, New York City) has moved him from the Chi­cago county court. Duties attend­ant on "breaking in" may prevent, but he's hoping to be on hand. 
Hearing from him suggest a little "major sequence group" rivalry. Ill bet that the Probation Work gang has as good percentage of attendance as any. Calling Bill Murmy from Bridgeport, Connecticut, M«x Fried­man and Arnold Weiner! What will the Chem. Engs. do, Joe Toussaint? 
Here is your skillful promoter. King Giorgio, again: 
"Tempus fugit," so they say, and they know what they're talking about. The re-union is now only about three months away, boys. Don't fail to mark your diary now for the 4th, 5th and 6th of June, and drop me a card to tell me that you'll be there. 
Dr. Mike Crawford, of Cleveland, advises me that he. Jack Collins and John Kiener are going to drive to South Bend together in June. Mike is interning at St. John's Hospital in Cleveland. Jack Collins is practicing law, and John Kiener is in the coal business. John "Bugeye" Connolly is also going to the re-union with the three men above-mentioned. Mike Crawford states that he saw McCabe, Frank O'Malley, Charlie Qaigley and Stan Czapalski at the Ohio State game last Fall. He requests that Flo McCarthy drop him a line. (Mike can be reached at 55 W. 42nd Street, c/o Local Loan Companv, New York, Mac) 
Bill Waltz, whom I inadvertently libelled in the last issue, wants an apology from Jack Hamilton, who furnished the news to me. Prom the tenor of Bill's letter, however, this letter of apology may be too late, as he will get married as soon as possi­ble) John "Wildcat" Walsh is with the Republic Steel Corporation; Pete Streb is undercover sheriff of Stark County; Dick Conley is still with his dad's company. (Herb Wehrlen and Frank Norton, please write to 519— eth St., N.E., Massillon, Ohio, to Bill Waltz, and send him your Congrats.) 
Pi-ow Way Down South in Dixie comes a cool breeze from Dick Escu­dier who writes from Lafayette, Lou­isiana. Dick hopes to be present at the re-union in June with his wife and three-year-old child. Dick tells me Charlie Crockett is working in a bank in Alexandria; Joe McKeon is working for the Star Salt Company out of Jackson, Mississippi; no word re: C. D. Jones, who probably is "Gone with the Wind." How about it, CD.? 
Dick Escudier is managing editor of the Daily Advertiser in Lafayette, Louisiana. Good luck to you, Dick! We all hope a lot of the southern boys will show up in Jane, as we'd certainly miss the "Southn Gen'men." Thanks for your letter, Dick. See you in June. 
Bill Murphy is practicing law in BeUe\'ille and Newark, New Jersey. He is going west in June and hopes to have Bob NesbJt with him. Bill says he has seen "Bucky" O'Connor, Pat Troy, Don Lusardi, Jim Donnelly, Ray Geiger and Tony Conti recently, as well as Tony Guiffre. He tells me also that Ed Kolsk! will attend the re­union, and he hopes to persuade Sal Bontempo to put in an appearance. 
At the N.D.-N.Y.U. basketball game in the Garden, I never saw so many long faces in one place before in my life. The game was great, and east-em prestige took a flop. At the game I saw Joe Holbacb, who is with Air Reduction Sales in Jersey Citj-; Louis Del Prete who is manned now; Drew Shiebler, Bill Fitzgerald, Ray Geiger, et al. I hear little Tommy Tomasi is at Memorial Hospital in Washington, having completed a dental course. Frank Madden, of the Pavonia Ave­nue Maddens, is still "working" for the city, i.e., Jersey Cit>-. 
To Harry Behrman, of Glenwood, Illinois, I offer my apologies for past laxity in office. Harry was good enough to write me two letters each containing news of the boys of '32. Will you other boys try sending me a post card? Am I forgiven, Harry? Harry will be at the re-union in June with Mrs. Behrman. He is connected with the Glenwood Manual Training School. He tells me Regis Kuhn is married, living in Wheeling, West Virginia, and teaching and coaching at Catholic Central High in that city. Bernie Bresson is a proud daddy; Roger Cummings is married and liv­ing in Los -Ajigeles. Regis will attend the re-union if possible. Bill Come-ford, of Eiver Forest, will attend the re-union. Ed O'Malley of N.D. will, of course, be there. What about Ed O'Malley of Dixon, Illinois, Joe Judge, Jim Dubbs, Dunn, etc., etc., etc.? 
Your con-espondent will attend in June, probably in company of Leo McLaughlin, Bill Slader, and Larry Darrow. It won't be long—! 
F. J. O'Connor has been engaged as student engineer by the General Electric Company at Schenectady, New York. He reported for duty on January 18. 
"The class of '32 is honored with three new priests. Daniel E. Leahy was ordained in Salt Lake City on Decem­ber 19, and celebrated his first sol­emn Mass in St. Mary's Church, Park City, Utah, on December 27. Paul 
J. Hallinan was ordained in Cleveland on February 20, and celebrated his first solemn Mass in St. Mary's Church, Painesville, Ohio, on Febru­ary 21. A note says that Louis Putz is now Mons. I'Abbe L. Putz, Ker Sainte-Croix, Rue des Vergers, Dinan (Cotes du Nord), France. 
Jim O'Shaughnessy, of Chicago, is now a specialist in social security leg­islation accounting methods after a year of special study. His work in addressing interested gi-oups recently brought him to South Bend and Notre Dame for talks. 
10^3 Secretary: Don«M Wile, 110 Ple«»«nt 
SL. Joliet. 111. 
Charlie Sheedy, on PebiTjary 1, entered St. Joseph's Novitiate, Roll­ing Prairie, Indiana, as a norice in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Paul V. McNutt, LL.D. '33, former governor of Indiana, is the new high commissioner of the Philippine Is­lands, upon the appointment of Pres­ident Roosevelt, LL.D. '36. 
-A.ccoi'ding to current newspaper reports, Fred Snite, who has spent many months inside an "iron lung" in Pieping, China, may be brought back to Chicago next Summer—in­side the "ii-on lung." Severe tests as to the advisabilitj- of the plan will first be made, however. 
* 
1934 Secretary: James Moscow, 1320 N. Lawndale Ave.. Chicago, HI. 
Leo Crowe, as a member of a La­fayette pi'o basketball team, played in South Bend recently. 
iq^e Secretary: F. C. Hochreiler. lOU N. ^ ^ Eddy St.. South Bend, Indiana. 
Police Commissioner Lewis J. Val­entine, of New York, said: "Let the credit go to the man who thought up the idea." The man was Bill Toumey, police reporter for the New York Dnily Neivs. The idea was to have the police department collect and dis­tribute old toys to needy children last Christmas. 
That Man of Muscle and Mirth, that Social Lion in Social Work, that Winchell of Winchells, Mr. Hoch­reiter, gives you the following: 
We'll give you a little diffei-ent opening this month. It will be in the form of a human interest story direct from the flood area of Paducah, Ken­tucky, and Cliff Dudley. Cliff wrote us early in the days of last month to tell of his plight and of his escape to Union City, Tennessee. -A. week later, however, Gene Witchger sent us a copy of a letter Cliff sent him in which the details are set down to better advantage. With his -perms­sion we now quote pai-ts of the epistle. 
"We laid in considerable supplies and had planned to live upstairs un­til the water receded. From Satur­day until Wednesday we did very well. The only heat was one fire in the gi-ate in my room. That fire also sensed to cook our food. The water was turned on for one hour per day and that had to be boiled before drinking. You can hardly imagine how primitive we got to be. . . . 
"I don't know how well our ma­chinery at the plant is going to with­stand being submerged for a few weeks. Such things as washing pow­ders, stationery and office records are ruined. Seven of our cars are com­pletely under water, and the other is wrecked in -A.vondale near the Coun­try Club. Two of the cars were bought new in .-Vugust. .A.bout all we have left is our health—%ve are ti-ying hard to keep that. . . . 
"Up and down Broadway in the business district water is within a few feet of the ceilings of all the stores. The desk at the Cobb is com­pletely under water. They tell me that all the dead are being placed on the roof garden of the Cobb awaitinir burial." 
There, gang, you have some first­hand dope on the present "American Tragedy." It appears as though the Dudley Dairy is pretty much the vic­tim of the elements. Cliff wiites that as soon as the water subsides he is going back to" dig their way out." How about a few letters to the Ken­tucky boy, you fellas? He is at 123 North 10th Sti-eet, Paducah, Ken­tucky. A few cheeiy woi-ds wouldn't hurt. We send our best. Cliff, to you and the family, and hope that soon you will discover ways and means of rebuilding what has been taken from you. 
-\nd now, to our genial managing editor and his Proctorian scoop of last month. We had the info on friend Sandusky, but did not pass it on through our column since Art is; not, officially, in our class. It really belonged in the '36 dope, as that i.< the date for Art's LL.B. But, no harm done — merely a vindication. [Ed's note to the sec: Ho hum!] 
Some months ago Sigmund Slusz­ka sent us a card telling us of his present escapades. We misplaced same and hence the delay in passing the info on to you. But here it is. Sigie returned to the United States in September last and since then has been on th editorial staff of the Nassau Daily Neivs, and as far as instructions are concerned he was "supposed to put 'culture' into the rag." Sig writes that Bill Kennedy is still county courthouse reporter for the Brooklyn Daily Eagle. 
Word reaches us that Neil Crowley, who was with Catholic Charities of Brooklyn, doing social work until re­cently, has now decided to continue his studies at the New York School of Social Work, which is a branch of Columbia University. 
Though no verification on this has come through as yet, Luke Kelly, of -Albany, (and a bonded source) gives us the dope that Larry Clark was married last January in Albany to Maxine Davidson, of South Bend. We understand they are living in Al­bany, Lany's home. (Much good cheer, Larry.) 

Recently we had the opportunity to merely nod to Nick Vairo and his wife on the campus. They were on their way into Dillon, and we were with guests—^henee no further news. 
Our engineers continue to progress in their efforts. Just before writing our chatter we had a card from Jack Shodron in California. Jack writes: "Was sent' out here by Caterpillar Tractor Company to work for seven months. Have been living here the last two weeks (at company's ex­penses.)" And the card illustrates the Hotel Oakland. Nice going. Jack! We'll be looking for that promised letter with more details. 
Early in Februaiy we heard that Bill Schmidt was working in the en­virons of metropolitan New York at the engineering business. (Though we owe you a letter of some months' standing, how about a card on the na­ture of your present work, Bill?) 
Prom Normal, Illinois, came a mis­sive last month -with the signature of John Foy. John tells that he has been in Omaha, Nebraska, the past two years coaching and teaching. But, the first week of Februaiy he changed positions and addresses, and at the moment he is on the faculty of Illi­nois State Noi-mal University. The Foy boy is supervisor of physical ed­ucation and director of athletics for boys at the Soldiers and Sailors Chil­dren's School, which is under the University's guidance. (We'll enjoy -teeing you when you get an oppor­tunity to make that trip. Jack.) 
And here is the chatter on another "social worker." Ray Mulv«y is a so­cializer of the "rank and file" order working as a Master in one of the Cottages at the Lyman School for Boys at Worcester, Massachusetts. Ray had intended returning to Notre Dame this semester, but he has de­cided to remain at his present job until next year and then come back to continue his studies. 
Charlie Fehr wrote us a lengthy epistle a short while back. As you likely know, Charlie is married, and to add to that full-time job, he is managing the hardware and furniture store of Chas. Fehr & Son in Spring Valley, Illinois. Charlie has not been back to the campus since his official exodus two years ago, but, he plans returning this Spring. 
While in Buffalo during the Christ­mas holidays Charlie visited %vith Bill Meaier and attended the Buffalo Club formal. (Strange that we did not see you there.) We do not have any dope on Phil Jacobs, Charlie, but if we hear anything we shall pass it on to you. His address in Alexandria,, Lou­isiana is 2111 Albert Sti-eet. Perhaps this note will stir up a letter from the southern lad. How about it, Phil? 
Comes a typed sheet from the Chi­cago flash — Arthur Lucius Korzen­eski. .-Vrt is still "Blackstoning" at Loyola, and, struggling with 8:00 o'clocks every day in the week. (Quit gi-iping; you had them at N.D.) 
Art was here for the St. Mary's Junior Prom a few weeks back, and at that affair met Bill Lord who had come down from his locus of labor in Michigan for the social whirl. 
The following tid-bits come from our Chicago correspondent. Frank McGuire is supposed to be driving to Florida for his health. 
Cedar Rapids' contribution to the 

•'higher things" Bob (Robin) Byrnes, is working in the Windy City for the -•Ulen Bi-okerage Company. What is Killian's Department Store in the home town without you. Bob? 
Freddie Brookmeyer, formerly of 

Cleveland, is now residing in Chicago and is attending Loyola Law School as a first-year man. 
Art writes that George Demetrio is still booming the Palmer House and endeavoring to drum up convention trade for the coming balmy days. 
Jake Kunz spent a day with "Kor­zie" a while back and brought the news that Dick Baliman is still "law­ing" with the fathers of Marquette, and that John Corrigan goes horse­back riding on Sunday mornings to take his mind off the drapery busi­ness. Dick is remaining in Milwau­kee though his family has moved to Racine. 
-\rt was best man for the wedding of his brother Bert recently in the Log Chapel. (We really think the boy was polishing off his routine for the trip he will make some day in the not-too-distant future.) 
On the 18th of February roomie and your scribe were guests at the annual induction banquet of the Wranglers. Friend Tom and "the little man" endeavored to imbue the new blood with pearls of wisdom, but there was something about the atmo­sphere that told us certain "person­ages of the past" were missing. The spirit of Boyle, Sandusky, Korzen­eski, and the guiding hand of Father Cavanaugh might have gone a long way to make the function complete. 
We cannot miss this opportunity to give the House of Proctor a blow. -A. new man, and a freshman from Loui­siana, came up to Tom after the ban­quet and told him that seeing his beaming face in the Dome associated with varsity debate settled his mind on coming to Notre Dame. Hail Proctor, the inspirer of freshmen! (We ponder a bit further. This fresh­man is Frank Brame of Alexandria— the home of Camille Gravel. Query, what part did Gravel have in this conspiracy?) 
Before closing our "much ado about nothing" we have official class felicitations to extend to two more victims of Cupid's Dart. ' Paul Fergus took to himself Mary Lenore Walsh on Januarj' 23 in South Bend, and Tom Stringer married Marjorie Clara Young in Port Huron, Michigan, on last September 5. Much luck and happiness to you both, and may your sons follow the beaten path to the Golden Dome. 
One of these days we are going to make a survey of the remaining bachelors in the class of '35. It would seem that the number is dwindling as the months pass. Well, here is hoping that there are still a few "babes in the wood awaiting rescue" when we have the inclination to change our state of life. Happy April Fool's Day! 
igS R Secretarr: Thcous J. Uurphr. It Mill *"**" St.. Newport. R, I. 
Marty Peters, formerly coach at St. Teresa's High School, Decatur, Illinois, has succeeded Moon MuIUns as head coach and director of ath­letics at St. Benedict's College, At­chison, Kansas. Don Elser, who played pro football with the Boston Shamrocks last Fall, has succeeded Dick Pfefferle as assistant coach at St. Benedict's. 
DEBATING STARTS 

Intersectional debates with the University of Alabama and the Uni­versity of Florida, and participation in two mid-western tournaments are events on the 1937 schedule of Notre Dame debaters. 
The varsity squad engaged in its initial meet on February 28 when they debated St. Xavier's college of Louisville, Ky., in the auditorium of the John F. Gushing hall of engi­neering. 
On March 4 and 5 the varsity is to participate in the midwest invita­tional tournament at the University of Iowa, Iowa City. Following this tournament the debaters will engage the University of Alabama on March 17 at St. Mary's college. Holy Cross, Indiana. The following day the team will leave for the University of Wis­consin, Madison, Wis., to take part in the Delta Sigma Rho tournament, March 18 and 19. 
Dual debates have been scheduled with Michigan State college for some­time the latter part of March. The debate with the University of Florida will probably be held about the same time. 
This year the varsity debaters will argue the question: "Resolved, that Congress Should Have the Power to Fix Minimum Wages and Maximum Hours for Industry." 
ajjparel such as pajamas and under­so as to enable the audience to inter-
Many Wash Days 





At N. D. 
Larse Staff; Much Equipment Needed 

Ifs no seciot at Xoue Dame thai every day i.-- wash day. 
The problem of cleansinir !),on(i .-ihirts, IS.liOd pairs of j^ocks, 1.=>,0(MI napkins, o.iiKl) sheets, 5.01)0 pillow-eases and i)roportionate numbei-s of handkerchiefs, shorts, .<hirts. under­wear, etc., is the niain reason that Gerald .1. Hoar, niana.irer of the new .St. Michael's laundry at Xotre Dame, eat.5 his lunch "on the fly." and scur­ries back to :j;ive instructions to his .staff of 72 a.-si.-tants in meetin.u; on time the demands of 3,0(10 Xotre Dame students and 5oo community members. 
Mr. Hoar's .•< 100,000 e<iuipment makes .succe.-s j)o.<sible. .Seven lai'ire electric washing' machines use S-')!!.­000 jralions of watei- and 700 pounds of .soap eacli week. 1.000 sallons of water are used by each machine dur­ins: one \vasliin.ir. Kach machine car­ries a load of i^ifl pounds and washes six loads a day, about an hour and a half beins require<l for each load. 
Water Changed Eleven Times The water. Jlr. Hoar tells you, is chanjretl 11 times durin.u' each washinH-. The first four chanpres are suds; the ne.xt six, rinses, and the final, bluin.y. Uefore l)ein,s: used the water is softene<i to zero hardness. Thi.s chanjres all the soap-consumiiii;' compounds to non-soap consuminir compounds, or makes tlie water as soft as rain water, and purer because there is no suspended matter in it. Sixty-four operations ai-e involved in ironinir a Xotre Dame shirt, iU: Hoar says. The shirts are first starched, then both sides of the col­lars and cuffs are ironed on a press. X'ext the front and center band.s are ironed on a bosom ])ress and, after beinc: taken on a conve.vor, they are removed to the bod.v pre,-s where the larger areas of cloth, the back side and the seams are ironed. The sleeves are ironed on a heated cylinder. A conveyor takes the shirts to the finisher who completes any un­ironed paits by hand and folds the shiits. Each shirt is ironed in ap­proximately six nn'nutes after beinff handled by seven persons. It is the proud boast of this department that it irons 180 .shirts in an hour. Sorting Is Important Dre.ss .shirts are ironed the .same way but special equipment costing' .53,000 is needed foi-i]re~s collars. This include.s a pres.s which exerts a p2'e=sui'e of fiOO pounds. Wearinjr 
wear is also ii'oned on pi'e.sse.s wliile woolen socks aie ironed on steam-heated foi-ms the size of the .-ock-;. 
•'Temperature of the water and pi'oper sortinir of clothes are two im­portant thinirs in launderinjr,'' Mr. Itoar says. "Heat makes the fibers exjjand ;ind allows the soaj) to pei'me­.ite the garment. Durins; a washinj; the temi)ei-atuj-e is sri'aduaily raiserl from i)0 defrees Fahrenheit to ISO deiri'ees. This tompeniture is held dur­inir the first two rinsinirs and then [gradually !oweiv<i to 'JO degrrees again. 
K. OF C LEaURES 

-A, .-eries of ten free public lectures beginning Feb. 21 and ending 3Iay !' is being .-ponsored by the six coun­cils of the second di.strict of the Indi­ana Juri.-diction of the Knights of Columbus. The subject matter of the.<e lectures is political, social, and philosophic. They are open to all people of the communit.v in which they are given, and the.v are aiTanged logjite the speakei- foi' their own in­formation. 
ilenibers of tlie faculty of the Uni­versity who have consented to per­form this task are: Prof. .Joseph .-ipo­daca speaking on the "Co-operative Movement"; I'rof. .Stephen Rocske.v on "Evolution and Religion"; Prof. Louis Duckley on "Social Security .\ct and Its Application to the Indi­vidual"; Prof. William Downe.v on the "Supreme Court and the Consti­tution" Prof. Frank Flynn on "Social Treatment of Crime"; Rev. Janie.s A. Fogarty, C.S.C, "The Living Wage": Rev. Xoibeit C. Hoff on "IJirth Con­trol— Xeither Birth nor Control": I'rof. Waltei- ^\'ilkins on "Parents Look at Modern Education"; Rev. Charles Miltnor, C.S.C, and Prof. Daniel O'Grady have not as yet se­lected a topic, hut will appear on the l)rogram. 
The Xotre Dame council, besides assisting at Goshen and Plymouth, arranges for the publicit.v releases, transportation of the faculty mem­bers, and generally sees that the whole progiam is propeily executed. 
NEWSPAPERS FEATURE NOTRE DAME 
cirv 
•,•.'•,.:;••, Qmney. 111. 
•.>-':-:i.; KviiU<\\]lr, IlKi. 
.V.vv y.,ik. N. Y. 
W:ishini;t..n. i>. (. .V.w y.iil;. X. V. Ti.li-<l.i. Ohio Covinjrton, K.v. .\ll.iili.v. X . V. .SrhencrtiHl.v. N'. Y. 
(Tii. ni. 
Chi. III. 
I^-t/oj(. .Mich. Ypsihmli. Mich. 
N-.w York. N. Y. 
Fiill UiviT. >I:i-. I.ynn. M:i.-^.-. I^nvell. Mass. lirnoklyn. N. Y'. Middlctown. Conn. I,:iwreiu-(>. Mass. Waterbury. 0)nn. 
i-3-:ir, In<lianal>olis, In<). 
Toll-do. Oliio 
;i-J-:lo Sandusky. Ohio ti.-..:v. P.-irkt-rsburK-. W. V:t . 
;'-.".-:!iI Uavt?nna, Ohio 
9-r.-:;i; WTictlinir. W. Va. 
ii-.-.-:ii; .'JprinKfald. Mass. 
9-.".-:!r, Ni w Y%irk. N . Y-. 

(Coiitiiit'al from 
\i:usr.\ri;i: //.vaW H7„V 
Cimfii-f ./niirruij 
.1 int'ri^'in 
.V. »•.-

Muntiiut T'ln-. 
Tinif.i Unluti 
I'titini .Sfizi­
Tr.YoiH. 
. ((inrfniii 
;v.-.s.< 

irow.; T.i.-.jnii: 
lUmM .V.-.,s 
rribiin,­
Dcuton\it Stnr 

Staf Jottrtui' Srnfiti'-l 
lii-eord 
Rcimtrr 
.Wtr.s 
rim.-.s 

!l-3-3i; 9-.-.-;ic  Ne wNe w  Y'ork. N . Y".  Y'oik. N . Y-.  Jnurnal Sim  
v-i-wi;  rtuhuiiue.  Iow a  CMwHe  Trihiith­ 
•3-2-::<:  Xin - YVirk. K .  Y".  Sim  

l'lt</C !•'>.',) 

Tiri.l; nl.Ai.lNt; OK .\l:rici '".Votrt; Jl;iiii'' Fi;:iits l;t'»[>." ••-Viitre Diimi' Cm.K OfTiT TnlK- Ai.l in ''(•/(irmim'srri FiVfif." "Ndtrr Djiiiit; .Mtltiitii .loin in W;ir lipnn 
•Notiv Il.niu-Cra.l- DlT.-i- 1.. Ai.l in Fii:lu on Ke.!.--." ".N'otre l>ai!i(' rhiiis Anii-IIiiI Cnisuiic." "Alunin! Olt. Aid in Anti-Uid Drivf." "Notre IX'imi' Alumni to Kijiht Cornmunistii." "N'olro l)»mv C.itm\< lo Ai<i Uinl Drive." "Alumni "f X-.ir.' pjirii- l'l.*I«c«l tt» K.-.I FiKht." 
"10.000 Xotiv Ihuiw Alumni to .loin Kiuht Ai-'ainst Rc»I.-." "10.000 \',->tre Danu- Alinnni to Ai.l I'OIK-"­Fi«ht on Oinmiiinisni," ".Vdtre Dam.- Aid is I'ktiixvii ii> I'npo.** "N'otrr Damt- .\iumni tn Oimliat Coni­cminifin," 
"Offers Aid of lo.il'in - N'oire Ilamo Alumni J'jL'><i(Ienl to See Vt'iw." "Xoire Damo Alumni to Aiil lN»i»i'/* "N'niro Dame Alunani lo FiV'lit Comnutniyin." "Tit Viizht Communism." 
"Xotre Dame Alumni Ready to Ft^ht Rod.-;." "XtHre Djime to Help." "Aid is Offered in Viizht Ajrainst Reds." "Offer of Notre Diunc Alumni." ".\Iumni of X'otrc Dame Offer pojie Aid in Ki^-'ht." 
"FiKht Comnuinisni — Xotre Dame Alumni Head Says Group Pledges Aid to Pope." "X'otre Dmne -Mumni lo Fi^ht Communism." "X'otre Dame's Afunini May Fisht Cmn­munism." 
"Oilers Vaite AhU" 

"Xotre Dame.Mumni to Ki>;ht Communism." "Notre Dame Alumni AVfJl AU] Pontiff in Fi;:ht Against Reds." 
"Xotre Dame Plans Anli-Red Criisadc." "Notre Dame's Alumni Join War on Red.s." "Xotre Dame Alumni Head Sails to See I*ope un .Anti-Red Drive." "Notre Dame Alumni to Pledtje Sui»port to Hilly FaUier." 
"Will Sail for Vatiean—Xotre Dame Alumni Head to Pledue Wa r on Reds." 



