The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Vol. 20. No. 8 JUNE, 1942 
Alumni Fund Under Way 
(Pase 3) 

'UndeAWeStaHd! 

J 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
athletic program at Centennial High School, Pueblo, Colo., from 1926 to 1929, 

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
and then returned to Iowa as director 
PROF. BENITZ: AN APPRECIATION 
It is di^cult to write about the death of a man like Prof. William L. Benitz. Because men like Prof. Benitz don't die. That is true of course in the spiritual sense, and those who know his family life, and his character, and his devotion to his parish, accept his happy spir­itual immortality al­most as a matter of 
But even in a tem­
poral sense, men 
W. L. BENITZ 

whose lives are freely given to schools like Notre Dame, and whose intellectual wealth is showered with little hope of tangible benefit on succeeding generations of young men, acquire a perennial youth and a death­less identity more lasting than the names of the great engineers carved in the stones of the building in which Prof. Benitz completed his teaching. 
The Notre Dame campus will always contain his figure for the men who knew him. Sometimes he will pass on his way to a ball game. Sometimes he will be on his way to the dining hall. You will see him through the window of the old shop, or the basement of Badin, or in the more imposing doorway of the beautiful build­ing given to Notre Dame by John F. Gushing, whom he had taught. 
Faculty members will see him at all of the faculty parties, mixing with a ready friendship that closed the gap between the new and the veteran, the old and the young. 
Students will see him before the black-" board, frowning only rarely, and then because the class, and not the problem, bothered him. He was one of those fine teachers whose recognized magic with mathematics did not require a profound ­manner or an impersonal approach. In fact, the process of imparting his ^vis­dom to the generations of engineers, whose work has long since proved his merit, hardly required more than an oc­casional shifting of what looked like the constant presence of a bit of tobacco in the best engineering tradition. 
Some students will dodge a little in­stinctivdy in classrooms where their re­sistance to his teaching brought on the application of his own foot-rule, a meth­od that perhaps John Dewey has frowned upon but a method which has Notre Dame engineers building things that stay built, and used in a way that created a stronger bond of friendship between 
teacher and pupil than exists in the in­
corporeal system. 
But with all the informality, and with 

all the humor, everyone at Notre Dame 
will recall a life of real service, a contri­
bution of high learning, a loyalty that 
welcomed such added responsibilities as 
work on committees, marshalling the 
Commencement processions, serving on 
the athletic board, carrying the burden 
of treasurer of St. Joseph's Ghurch, and 
many other unseen and unsung sacrifices. 
His love for Notre Dame was as deep-rooted as his faith. Marrying the daugh­ter of the late Judge Timothy Howard, himself a great lay professor at Notre Dame, Prof. Benitz and his wife added a rich tradition to the new Notre Dame. Three sons were graduated in 1925,1927 and 1932, to keep immediately alive his interest in and his knowledge of the Uni­versity. 
You can appreciate, to some small' de­gree, why there really is no obituary for Prof. Benitz. He still lives here at Notre Dame. 
ANOTHER GIFT: GLIDER The American war effort received an­other contribution on July 1 when the College of Engineering at the University handed over to the army air force its year-old soaring glider. The machine was designed and built by Robert S. Eiken­berry, assistant professor of aeronautical engineering. • 
HANDY NAMED TRACK COACH 
Dr. Elvin R. (Al) Handy, who has been a member of the Notre Dame fac­
•ulty since 1931, .has been named "for the duration" to succeed Ensign William P. Mahoney, '39, as varsity track coach. 
% 

Coach Handy was a weight star at the University of Iowa and was a member of the freshman football squad in 1921 wh ^ the late Howard Jones was head coach. He imderstudied Gordon Locke, all-American fullback, in his next two years, but was kept out of comitetition in his final year by a broken ear drum. As a member of the track squad his teammates included, besides Locke who was a sprinter, Charley Brookins, cham­pion hurdler, and Eric Wilson, star mid­dle, distance runner. 
The new head coach received his law degree from Iowa in 1926, his master's in 1930 and his Ph.D. in 1937. Following his graduation from Iowa he hraded the of health and physical education in the university's experimental school in Iowa City imtil 1931, when he came to Notre Dame as a physical education teacher. 
ORDINATIONS. 1942 
Seventeen young men were ordained priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Sacred Heart. Church at Notre Dame, June 24. Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of the Fort Wa3me diocese, oflSciated. 
The young men ordained were: Rev. John J. Winiarski, C.S.C, '38, Chicago; Rev. Vincent B. Delavy, C.S.C, '38, Rose-ville, Mich.; Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., '38, South Bend; Rev. Philip V. Lucitt, C.S.C., '38, Providence, R. I.; Rev. Michael G. O'Brien, C.S.C, '38, Mt. Mor­ris, Mich.; Rev. Eugene L. Dore, C.S.C, '38, Chicago; Rev. Herman R. Reith, CS.C, '35-'36, Fort Wayne, Ind.; fifiv. Peter F. MueUer, C.S.C, '32-'33, Ger­many; Rev. Theodore J. Huard, C.S.C, '32-'33, Cloquet, Minn.; Rev. Ferdinand 
L. Brown, C.S.C, '38i Portsmouth, 0.; Rev. Joseph F. Ciecka, C.S.C, '38, La­porte, Ind.; Rev. William M. Schreiner, CS.C, '33-'34, '35-'36, Cleveland; Rev. Cletus S. Bachofer, C.S.C, '38, Salina, Kans.; Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C, '38, Revere, Mass.; Rev. George S. De­prizio, C.S.C, Mansfield, Mass.; Rev. Charles E. Sheedy C.S.C, '33, Pitts­burgh, and Rev. Philip C Kelly, C.S.C, '36-'37, Roslindale, Mass. 
In addition to the above new priests, this year's class also includes Rev. Rich­ard J. Kennedy, C.S.C, '38, who was or­dained in Washington, D. C, and Rev. Harry' F. Stegman, C.S.C, '32, who was ordained by Bishop John F. O'Hara in Indianapolis and who is now inithe office of the Military Ordinariate in New York City. 
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS 
Notre Dame welcomed two distin­guished 'visitors to the campus recently in fhe persons of a Mexican editor.and a Paraguayan law professor. 
Dr. Gabriel Mendez Flancarte,. Mexi­can editor, author and publicist, arrived on Hay 26 to make a brief study of the .University. Dr. Planearte, in the United States on his initial visit as a guest of ttie State Department, was making a three-weeks study of the educational pro­grams and social legislation of this country. 
(Continued on page 12) 

The Notre Dame Alummii 
TUi Tnagmine is pobliilied mnntMy from October to June, inefaiiive (except Januaiy), tar tbt VmimMr at Notra 1 
Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second dais matter Oetobar 1, 19S9. at tbe riialifflsa. Notn Vaat, T~«— oadv Oa 
act of Ansust 24, 1912. Member of tbe American Ahmml Comicil and of the National CitkaBe Ahmml Fedentka. JAMES EL AKMSTRONC. "25. Editor; WnxiAM R. DOOLEY. "26. Manepnt EUler., • 
Vol. 20 JUNE, 1942 No. 8 
Association Fund Program Launched 
Urgency of University Position Speeds Up Drive; 
Many Forms Planned to Secure 100 Per Cent Par­
ticipation In Centenary Year; Qasses, Qubs Active. 
This is not just the annual appeal. 
Notre Dame, at one of the highest achievement points in its history, faces serious financial problems. They will enr tail many sacrifices that we will neces­sarily share unless we take steps to pre­vent them. 
President Harry Kelly has asked for the fullest cooperation ever extended by, alumni to offset this war-created situa­tion. 
He is appointing Class Kepresentatives, so that every graduate will have a direct request for aid in this crisis from a Classmate whom he knows, and who will understand, before he writes, the genuine seriousness of the situation. 
The move launched last summer among the Clubs is being followed up with greater zeal than ever, so that every Club member, graduate and non-gradu­ate, will have an opportunity to make a contribution. 
The Alumni Ofiice has already sent out a basic statement of the situation, and suggestions for alumni giving that are bringing early and promising returns. 
But while those who have responded have shown more than the usual generos­ity, there is still the fear that the current fault of "too little and too late" may find local application. 
Notre Dame is exploring the many fields of self-aid in this critical period, and has survived other critical periods, but unless the alumni—^in this instance the first line of defense—^hold out the necessary support, other channels seem likely to be lost. 
The history of Notre Dame, the needs of the University, the benefits to alumni and students, are not unknown. The Cen­tenary has its own significance. But they all add up now to one word, in terms of financial support, ACTION. And the con­ditions created by the war have given to that word an adjective, IMMEDIATE. 
Contributions will be credited to Class and Club, and both groups will be sub­mitted in printed form from time to time for indications of progress. Neither un­due credit or undue condemnation is im­plied in these lists, rather a necessary picture of our progp^ess toward 100%. 
We would like to have more alumni give more than they have ever given be­fore, individually and of course collec­tively. But priinarily, we must have more alumni give. 
In this issue, as a start in the recogni­tion of gifts, and an indication of the long road ahead, contributors are listeJ under the Class headings. When the next issue of the ALUMNUS comes ont, if your name isn't in this issue, don't be missing. 
You can give as much, or as little, or as often, as your circumstances permit. As another school, very prominent, re­cently wrote: "No gift has ever been returned because it was too larg^ or too small." 
Holy Cross (Worcester, Mass.) has already raised $300,000 from alumni to­wards its 1943 Centenary Fund. 
A history of giving at the University of Michigan reveals that alumni have given to that state-supported institotioh an additional $22,000,000. 
Notre Dame does not expect a lai ^ capital endowment gift. But under the weU-established principle of living en­dowment, a substantial annual contribu­tion, beginning this year, will offset to a very helpful extent a lack of such capital endowment that will otherwise prove dis­astrous. If yon would like to give Notre Dame $1,000 and can't, $50 is what that $1,000 would bring if concdvably and happily invested at 5%. 

FATHERS O'DONNELL. CUNNINGHAM HONORED 
Notre Dame's part in strengthening the good neighbor policy toward Latin Amer­ica was praised on June 24 by Eduardo Alcayaga, graduate student from Santi­ago, Chile, at a special luncheon in the president's dining hall on the campus. 
Ocasion of the address was the presen­tation of honorary degrees to the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, and the Rev. William F. Cun­ningham, C.S.C, director of the faculty, by Senor Alcayaga on behalf of the Cath­olic University of Chile. 
"In the future should anyone attempt to narrate the events of the good neigh­bor movement, he will have to consider that for many years Notre Dame has in­terested itself with the problem, and that its recognition of the problem has been manifested in actions rather than mere words," declared the South American. 
Father O'DonneU's career iit the JSelds of academic and administrative education and his cooperation with the inter-Amer­ican program was reviewed, as was the work of Father Cunningham, who has made three trips to South and Centnl America, in 1939 serving on a special commission to Venezuela. Father Con­ningham is at present advisor to Spanish speaking students at the University. 
The luncheon was attended by stu­dents representing nine Latin Amerieaii nations, indnding Pern, Panama, Mexi­co, Braal, Colombia, Cuba, Hondnras, Puerto Rico and Chile. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Berlin correspondent of the Columbia 
Tom Durkin, '37 in Crash; Saved 
Had Drifted Fourteen Days in Open Boat After Plane Gash. 
To drift for 14 days in the South Seas in an open boat, to land finally, suffering. 
ENSIGN TEX DUKKIN, '37 

from starvation and exposure, on a small island inhabited by head hunters, to end up in a naval hospital in the South Seas over which presided a doctor with whom he had fished two years before in Idaho! 
Such, believe it or not, was the amaz­ing experience of Ensign Thomas F. "Tex" Durkin, '37, who turned into good use the training he had undergone-to win a Bengal Bout championship on the cam­pus a few years ago. 
The naval doctor w^ho cared for Tom, Commander John Schmoele, formerly of Los Angeles, wrote a detailed story of the experience to a close friend, Tom's uncle, T. J. O'Brien, Salt Lake City. 
"Ensign Tom Durkin was brought into my hospital yesterday suffering from starvation and exposure after having been adrift in a rubber boat since the 13th of May," Commander . Schmoele wrote. 
"It seems that Tom and his gunner were on patrol duty when he got separ­ated from his carrier and lost," the let­ter said. "After running out of gas, he landed in the sea in the darkness, and immediately threw out his inflated rub­ber life raft, and both climbed aboard." 
The plane went down on May 13, Com­mander Schmoele related. On May 29 Ensign Durkin and his gunner were found, ". . . dehydrated, burned to a crisp by the sun and covered with sores," lying in a native hut near the shore. • 

"They had only three quarts of water and a little concentrated food. Twice planes passed over them on search, but did not see them. When Tom saw the chance of rescue was remote. He began to paddle in an easterly direction." 
Later they rigged up a makeshift sail from a parachute they had salvaged, title commander wrote, and on May 28 "they drifted to a small island inhabited by head hunters. 
"They somehow got through the coral reef and landed on the rocks,' and made a meal on raw eels and shell fish, caught in the coral crevices. 
"The natives became frightened and fortunately reported to an advance group of our soldiers who investigated and found them .. . and reported their plight to us. . . . He is O.K., and with the ex­ception of a long beard and being ex­tremely thin will be none the worse for wear." 
Tom, in a letter which accompanied the commander's, said simply that he was "forced to make an emergency landing and drifted for 14 days, finally making it to one of the islands." 
Tom was commissioned last September as a naval flyer after training at Pensa­cola, Fla., and he did some patrol duty in San Diego before being assigned to a carrier as a torpedo bomber in March of this year. Until he enlisted in the Navy he had made his headquarters in Salt Lake City. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 

Assignment To Berlin, by Harry W. Flannery, '23, Knopf. 1942. $3.00. 
The public now has an inside view into war-torn Germany in Assignment to Berlin by Harry W. Flannery, '23. 
Harry took up in Germany where William L. Shirer left off, and he had a harder assignment than Shirer's. He was Broadcasting System from the fall of 1940 to October, 1941. Daring those months he distinguished himself by his ingenuity in news gathering and by the accuracy of his reporting, despite the in­creasing dignities that he, like other correspondents, had to overcome in their efforts to keep the United States in­formed as to what was going on in the most ominous news center in the world. 
Assignment to Berlin is the record of what he saw and heard and felt. Natural­ly, it tells much of what he could not broadcast at the time because, of the Ger­man censorship which he found unusually thorough, but not always thoroughly in­telligent. 
It was Harry's professional good for­tune to be in Nazi Germany when the Germans were extending their conquests to Yugoslavia, Crete and Greece, and when they were undertaking their inva­sion of Soviet Russia. Using Berlin as a base for his operations, he went by train, plane or automobile to the places where things were happening or where they had just happened. He got first-hand infor­mation in the occupied territories; he saw the looting of France, observed the pres­sure of the Nazis on subservient Hun­gary,and admired the Swiss defiance of the Nazi tentacles. He saw the effects of the allied bombings of German cities, and explains why Berlin had not been more badly damaged. He met and talked with Matsuoka, Lord Haw-Haw, Max Schmel­ing, the Stuka pilot who bombed the Illustrious, and other interesting persons. Not the least interesting was P. G. Wode­house, with whom the usually affable Flannery seems to have lost patience. "Wodehouse was," he says, "his own Bemie Wooster." 
Much of the material in Assignment to Berlin that deals with major news devel­opments almost up to the eve of Pearl Harbor and America's entry into the war has been covered by other observers. None of them has covered it more ade­quately, and few have presented it with shrewder judgment or have made more incisive comment. At the same time, how­ever, Harry refrains from the type of dogmatic statement that seems to have became characteristic of the correspond­ent who sets himself up as a military and political authority as soon as he is given access to a radio station. 
Where Flannery really excels is in his presentation of the daily life of the peo­ple in Germany and in German-occupied countries. Typewriters were made before microphones, and this writer was an ob­serving, capable reporter for many years 
(CoDtinued on page 10) 

The.Notre Dame Alumnus 
Professor Jerome Green 
"Don't call me Doctor," he said quite gently. • 
It embarrassed me, because I had no intention of flattering him. He was too genuine for flattery. I had merely lapsed into thinking of another Greene who was a Doctor. This Jerome Green, a very thin and emaciated gentleman of 76, had just arrived at Kotre Dame, and was pretty much exhausted from his long trip from California. After he had rested a bit in the college infirmary, he invited me in to talk to him, this fine summer day of June 8,1942. 
Jerome Green was the first American to send a wireless message. The experi­ments of Marconi predated his own, but those experiments were tried in Europe. Green was the first to send a message successfully in America, and it took place right here on the campus of Notre Dame. 
"Money was very scarce in those days," he told me, "and it was hard to get equipment. Father Morrissey did let us purchase a large induction coil, without which the experiments would never have been performed. We had to make our own detector, or receiving set. There was a young boy here at school from Mexico, Eduardo Hay, and he was alwaiys around wanting to help us. We had to get some nickle and silver filings, and I'm afraid we mutilated some good United States currency about which we didn't say any­thing at the time. These were placed in a glass tube each end of which was closed by a brass stopper. 
A Blood-Covered Face 

"Well, Eduardo was working at the lathe trying to shape the brass stopper. All of a sudden, I heard a commotion and looking up, saw Ed's face covered with blood. The stopper had kicked up and cut quite a gash in the boy's face. 
"'It's all right; it's all right! I'm not hurt much!' And he wasn't. There was a lot of blood, but the wound was not deep. I guess Ed wasn't much afraid of blood, for when he was graduated he went back to Mexico, and from what I hear was mixed up in every guerilla shooting and fancy war they had down there." 
I asked Professor Green to describe the 

Notre Dame Teacher Was the First American 
to Send a Wireless Message; Hb First Experi­
ments Were at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
By Rev. Arthur J. Hope, CS.C,'20 

first experiments. He told me that when be a great momoit for Green. The Pro­the apparatus was ready, they decided to fessor held up his hand for silenee and make a test. They used a simple tele­a hush descended on llie crowd. Then it graphic instrument to produce the sound, cam^ three dots, clearly and tmmistak­and the first successful message was sent ably. The reporters let go with a mij^ity from one end of the physics laboratory to cheer. the other end. The physics laboratory was at that time located in Science HalL "Now, yonll let us have the stuff!" Green was on the sending end, and his And Green nodded his assent. assistant, a student named Albert Ka-
Later the experiment was tried in Chi­chur, was on the receiving end. The next cago between the Tribune building and test took place between Science Hall and the Dearborn Street station. There were the present Architectural Building, then so many wires around the station that Chemistry Hall. It worked. They then the experiment was unsuccessful. A man tried it between the Physics laboratory present suggested that the set be moved and the flag pole. Here the reception was from the station and brouj^t to the sev­even better. 

enth story of an adjacent building. After this was' done, the test was satisfactory. 
Chicago Papers Active 

By this time, the Chicago newspapers "Were there any experiments per­had gotten wind of the matter, and were formed in other sdentifie fields?" I asked pestering Green for a statement. He re­him. fused to anticipate his success until he 
"Yes, I did a great deal of work in the was surer. The reporters made up their field of X-ray. In all of Northern Indi­copy and begged Green to confirm it. He ana there was no X-ray machine except took their writings and so blue-penciled that we had constructed here at Notre them that the reporters wailed. 

Dame. In fact, I was the first one to 
"Gentlemen," said Green, "you have demonstrate the X-ray to the Medical So­written a lot of sensational stuff that may ciety of Northern Indiana. Many of the turn out to be so much hooey. Be patient, doctors in South Bend used to bring their and it may be that you will have some­patients here to the University. I remon­thing even bigger to write about!" ber once how Doctor Berteling brouj^t 
out a man who had a badly fractured Another test was made between the wrist. We took a picture, and I've often Physics laboratory and the church tower. 
wished I had saved that plate. It was one This, too, gave satisfaction. Green then of the finest I have ever seen!" 
determined to try the experiment between 
the church tower and St. Mary's College, 
Little Money Available 

over a mile distant. They rigged up the receiving apparatus beneath the main-For a moment he was sOent, musing. portal of the Academy building at St. Then he said: "We had so little money Mary's. All the newspaper men were 'for experimentation in those days. Fa­present that afternoon. Then, turning to ther Morrissey gave what he could, but Albert Kachur, Green said: "It will take it wasn't much. I had to pinch as much you about half an hour or so to get back out of it as possible. Makes me think of to the University. Let's make it forty-what a fellow from Ohio State said to five minutes. Let me see your watch!" me: "The best engineer is the one who After they had compared time-pieces, it can make a dollar do the most!'" was agreed that Kachur would tap out 
We then began talking of his early the signals—^three dots—at a given mo­life and these are some of the biographi­ment. Kachur departed, and the crowd cal facts that turned up. He was bom waited impatiently. 

Dec. 26, 1865, near Somerset, Ohio. His 
As the given moment approached, father was Joshua Green, his mother, everyone had out his watch. They hov­Emily Flowers. His primary education ered over the receiving set, anxious and was obtained at the small country sehobL on edge. If it would only work, it would "I guess I was greedy for an education. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
for the schoolmaster encouraged me to come back and re-study some of the things I had learned. He intimated that if I showed aptitude, I might possibly get a teacher's certificate and turn peda­gogue." 
"Didn't you have any high-school?" I asked him. He shook his head. 
"That wasn't necessary in those days. I got my certificate and taught for two years. Thirty dollars a month. Kept the wolf from the door. In 1888, I went to Columbus and made up my mind to go to Ohio State. It was the rule there that if you hadn't been t» high-school, they de­manded two years of preparatory work before you could enroll in college classes. That meant six years. But I collapsed them into five by doing extra work." 
"How did you support yourself?" I suggested. 
"Well, sir, I had a great interest in photography and I built a camera. I took photographs of the students and some of their parades and gatherings, and made some profit. There was a photographer in Columbus who needed a helper, and I got eight dollars a week from him. Finally in 1893, with several other fellows, I went to Chicago on a special errand. It seems that the World's Fair people wanted to illum­inate the dome of the administration building, and various firms were invited to compete. I was one of the Judges who were to pass on the merits of systems offered. It took me six weeks instead of the two I had expected, and when we got back to Columbus, we were scared that they wouldn't graduate us. But they did —^gave me a nice long degree, too, Bach­elor of Mechanical Engineering in Elec­trical Engineering. 
"After that, I was on my own, and nearly starved to death. There was a de­pression on, and it was almost impossible to get a job. Finally, I heard of an open­ing in Chicago—in fact, one was prom­ised to me. When I got there, the fellow said: 'Oh, well, times are bad, and I don't think 111 build this year!' I was thunder­struck. 'Looky here!' I said, 'I've only got six dollars in my pocket, and you prom­ised me this job. You've got to do some­thing for me!' He just looked at me and walked off. 
"Fortunately, I met one of the fellows who had been associated with me at the World's Fair, and he told me about a Dr. Homsby who ran a small technical col­lege in the city. He suggested that I go out and see the doctor, and maybe he might have something for me. He did. He put me teaching some classes at night, for which I was paid $2.50 a night. That, with what I was eventually able to pick up daring the day, tided me over." 
"How did you happen to come to Notre Dame?" I asked. 
"Well, sir, that's a funny story, too. It seems that the professor of dectrical engineering—^I think they caUed him the Professor of Telegraphy in those days— didn't return to the University in the fall of 1894. And Father Morrissey and Father Corby came to Chicago to look for a substitute. They had a good friend who was the City Electrician, and they laid their problem before him. The City Electrician knew of Doctor Homsby, and that's where I came in. 'You bet I have got a man, and a good man, too!' He surely boosted my stocks •with Father Morrissey, and so I came to Notre Dame and was able to do my experiments here." 
Professor Green stayed on at the Uni­versity from that time until 1914, with the exception of one year, 1907-08, when he took a leave of absence and went to Europe where he consulted with the lead­ing scientists, notably with Professor Branly of the University of Paris. 
He was twice married. His first wife was Elizabeth Feeny of Rochester, Minn. They had one child, Francis. Mr. Green's voice grew faint as he said: "When Fran­cis was born, that cost her her life!" In 1909, he married Mable Cortis, and of this union two children were bom, Wini­fred and Richard. 
• After leaving Notre Dame in 1914, he went to California. In San Diego, he met another old Notre Dame student, Terry Cosgrove. Terry was City Engineer of San Diego and he immediately recom­mended Mr. Green for the post of phy­sics teacher in the Junior college that was being started in that city. In 1920, the Knights of Columbus persuaded Jerome Green to undertake the estab­lishment in various cities on the west coast of the schools which the Knights were opening up for ex-service men. For a year, Mr. Green was the supervisor of these schools which were opened in San Francisco, Portland, Spokane, and Salt Lake City. 
In 1921, he was back at his post in San Diego. The University of Southern California claimed him in 1923. He stayed with them two years. In 1925, he re­turned to San Diego and was entered on the faculty of the state college there. In 1939, he had reached the age of retire­ment. 
"And what do you do now?" I inquired. 

Smiling a bit, and rubbing his thin, brown hands, he replied: "I'm working at my retirement!" 
He followed me to the door, remark­ing that he had so enjoyed his days at Notre Dame, and that he had been thrilled by the experiments he had been able to conduct. "It's a great satisfaction to know that now, where I am leaving off, these yoimger fellows are taking up. And what a job they're doing!" 
JOHN DAVIS, '38. HONORED 

Lieut. John F. Davis, U.S.N.E., '38, of Evansville, Ind., has been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for skillful handling of his patrol bomber during a Japanese attack on Jan. 17. Announce­ment 'of. the award was made by the Navy on June 27. 
The announcement came as a complete surprise to his family who, except for a few cables, have had little news from John since the outbreak of war. His father, suffering from a stomach ailment, received the news in St. Mary's Hospital where he received three transfusions on Friday, June 26. He had improved Sat­urday and, with the news of his son's feats, gained enough strength to leave the hospital July 2. 
The last letter Jack's family re­ceived before the Pearl Harbor attack was dated Nov. 29 from Midway Island. After a few weeks of patrol duty there, Ensign Davis was transferred to Pearl Harbor just before the assault on Dec. 
7. His only words about the onslaught were, '1 was there. Dad, and saw it all. I've plenty of stories to tell you when I get back." 
There was a cablegram from him on Feb. 22 out of Soerabaja and one March 1 from Perth, Australia. Two letters in June have no postmark. His latest ad­dress is c-o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. In his letters home the most excit­ing news he mentioned was his marriage to an Australian girl, Mary Clarke, of West Perth, on April 21. 
The Navy declared that Davis' ex­ploits have already become legend, and as a consequence of his outstanding work promoted him to the rank of lieutenant, junior grade. 
Lieut. Davis, a graduate of Memorial High School, Evansville, received a de­gree in Mechanical En^neering from Notre Dame in 1938. He won his wings at the Navy's Pensacola Training Station and was immediately stationed in Hawaii. 
The Student Council recently elected officers for the present year. Walter Jones, Anderson, Ind., was elected pres­ident; John Anhut, Detroit, vice-presi­dent; Gerard Feeney, South Bend, secre­tary; and Herb Melton, Padncah, Ky., treasurer. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
N. D. Host to N.C.A.A, Golf Meet 
Event is Emphatic Success, With Entry of 141 in War year; Notre Dame Team Takes Eishth Place; Tatum of Stanford Wins Individual Championship. 
The first big gun in Notre Dame's cen­tennial celebration was fired late in June when the University played host to the 45th annual National Intercollegiate Golf tournament at the Chain 0' Lakes course of the South Bend Country club. 
The competition, sponsored for the fourth straight year by the National Col­legiate Athletic association, was pro­nounced a success from every point of view by every one in a position to ex­press such an opinion. 
Not only was it South Bend's first na­tional golf tournament, but it was the only amateur links tournament of the year of national scope. What the field lacked in size because of wartime condi­tions, it more than made up in class, a point we intend to establish with facts about the tourney as we go along. 
The original field totaled 141, as com­pared with last year's 158 at Colmnbus. There were 41 schools represented as compared with last year's 58. Consider­ing the schools that sent only two or three boys instead of their usual six, and those who have dropped the sport for the duration, this was not a serious differ­ence. 
Getting to the class of the field, and the improvement of the tournament in general imder N.C.A.A. direction, consid­er that in 1936, before the N.CJV.A. took over, those with 160 for the 36 holes of medal play qualifying played off for the 32nd qualifying position. Last year's large field at Columbus saw the 155's play off for the 64th position. The small­er field at South Bend, playing a more exacting championship layout than Co­lumbus offered, also required 155 to get into match play. There was no play-off. 
The red hot team race ran true toform with Louisiana State tying with Stan­ford's defending titlists at 590, only 10 strokes over the amazing record of 580 —or 145 per man for 36 holes—estab­lished by Stanford last year, and 11 strokes under the best previous mark. 
L.S.U. had set new records in winning the Southeastern conference and South­ern Intercollegiate titles. Stanford was the Pacific Coast champion. Northwestern TOth 597 was also under the pre-1941 record. Undefeated Notre Dame's 612, good enough to win most tournaments in the 1930's, was sufficient only for eighth place behind Yale's Eastern cham­pions, Washington, Minnesota, and Ohio State, but ahead of Michigan's Big Toi winners. Navy, Wisconsin, Holy Cross, Bradley, and Michigan State. Navy, en­tered for tile first time in its history; 
The competition opened Sunday, June 21, with the third annual East-West match in which two boys finm Eastern schools met two boys from Western schools in a series of best-ball fooisomes. The East had won the 1940 inaugural by one point. The West had retaliated by one point last year. Appropriately, it ended in a S-all tie this year. 
R. W. Boynton of Princeton dethroned Earl (Red) Stewart of L.S.U. as driving champion with an average of 253 yards for three straight balls. There were two prizes given in addition, for the longest strai^t ball and for the longest ball any­where. Herb Rose, a.210-pound Minnesota giant, won both with one straight poke of 274 yards. 
Sunday's ceremonies, which indndied the East-West match and the driving contest, were also dolled up with a flag-raising ceremony and a glee dub concert by men from the Notre Dame Naval Training Station, and by a match involv­ing the Country Club and the Station. The Sailors proved that they had been working hard at national defense by losing a 15 to 0 decision to the wily dob-members. 
Stewart, who won the 1941 naedal with a record 142, and last year's champion­ship with a 3 and 1 victory over Ray. Brownell of Stanford, exemplified' the sportsmanship for which the Intercoll^­
- ate-is justly famous when he scored a 141 to Dick Haskell's 142 in Monday's and Tuesday^s qualifying, but insisted that the medal go to the Evans Caddy scholar from Northwestern University. Stewart, as defending champion, was exempt tzam quailing, but his score will stand as a tournament record, since it was made in the team titie race.­
The team championship was settled on the basis of the low scores of four men from 4-, 5-, or 6-nian teams for 36 holes. L.S.U.'s feat of tying Stanford's sbc-man team with a four-man unit is outstanding in N.C.A.A. history. 
Prindpal casualties in the qoali^ing were Jim McCarthy, Illinois' Big Ten 

After the tonmey wai over! Left to riafat: Eddie Twina, Stanford coadi: Frank (Sandy) Tatna. of Stanford, the champ; Manuel de la Torre, Northwestern, mnner-np; Key. Georce HoUerith, G.S.C Notre Dame coach and toamament chairman. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
champion and letterman end in football; Boynton of Princeton, the driving con­test winner; and Richard Holmes of Oberlin, the Ohio Conference titlist. 
But more carnage was to come, along with bigger and better records. Yale qual­ified seven men to set a new mark. Six of the first 32 matches Wednesday morn­ing went" extra holes and four others ended on the 18th. John Donohue— brother of Notre Dame's Phil—went 22 holes to defeat Bob Beekman of South­ern California, Pacific Coast runner-up. Major first round upsets saw John Rris­ko of Ohio State eliminate Ben Smith of Michigan, new National Intercollegiate Golf association president; Manuel de la Torre, Northwestern sophomore, defeat Burleigh Jacobs of Wisconsin, who set a course record of 67 in the 1938 Western Amateur qualifying; Kose of Minnesota nose out Ace Williams, Yale's Eastern champion; D. H. Paul of Annapolis win from Frank McCann, Stanford's Coast champion; and Jim Teale of Minnesota win over Medalist Haskell, 5 and 4, al­though Haskell was even par for 14 holes. 
Teale traveled 23 holes before eliminat­ing Chandler Simonds of Michigan in the afternoon (and evening). John Holm­strom of Illinois, the retiring Intercollegi­ate president, defeated Charley Lind of Denver, Big Seven conference titlist and low man in the Denver district Hale America qualifying; K. W. Kimtz of Yale," eventual semi-finalist, won from Capt. Bill Wilson of Notre Dame, retir­ing intercollegiate secretary, 1 up in 19 holes, dropping a 25-foot downhill birdie putt for his victory; and John Stoltz, Northwestern soph, took out Grove K. Poole of Duke, Southern Intercollegiate and Southeastern conference champ. 
Thursday morning roimds saw Stewart even with par for 14 holes, but beaten by Holmstrom, 5 and 4; and Harold Gjolme of Washington victorious over Brownell of Stanford, 1941 runner-up. Bob Euntz —the same who eliminated Wilson—^re­moved Holmstrom in the afternoon quar­ter-finals. De la Torre, who learned golf from his father in Madrid when the lat­ter was Spanish Open champion, ad­vanced with a 6 and 5 win over Al "Whaling of Cincinnati. Gjolme shot an unoflScial 66 in polishing off Stoltz, 4 and 3, par being 71. Frank (Sandy) Tatum of Stanford eliminated colorful Dale Morey of L.S.U., 2 and 1. 
With the "name" golfers all on the sidelines, new names were being estab­lished. There was Etmtz, whose twin, W. 
B. Euntz, had previously lost to de la Torre, facing the Spanish-bom North­western ace in the upper bracket. A com­pact little gent who played with all the concentration and speed of a Sarazen, Kuntz had his parents come in over-night from Westchester County, N. Y., to see his match. 
Gjolme and Tatum in the lower bracket were equally colorful. The former, son of Reidar, 1903 world skiing champion, had won the National Intercollegiate ski championship in 1939 at Sun "Valley. A multiple fracture of his right leg three weeks later ended his career on sMs, but here he was in the semi-finals with a 66 to his credit in his third year of golf. Tatimi, Stanford's valedictorian, in engi­neering at that, got his nickname, "Sandy," in a wire from an old Scotch golfer when three weeks old, along with a prediction that he would be a 3-handi­cap player some day. It was Tatum who organized the drive for funds through popular subscription, exhibitions, contests and the like to get the Stanford team across the nation for the tournament. 
Although Northwestern had never sent a man beyond the second round before, the smooth-swinging de la Torre turned in a 6 and 5 victory over Kuntz to gain the finals, Stoltz having made it to the quarter-finals also. All of this was mighty pleasing to Ted Payseur, the hard-working Wildcat mentor whose ef­forts as Secretary-Treasurer of the N.C.­
A.A. golf committee make the Intercol­legiate the smoothest-run competition in the country. 
Despite a wild spell in the morning, Tatum steadied in the afternoon to knock in a goodly share of long putts and to knock out Master Gjolme, 4 and 2. Five up after the 10th hole, Tatum was only two up at 18 and at 27, thanks to Gjolme's ability to rally, but Sandy ended it with a 25-foot birdie putt on the 34th g^reen. 
Tatum took the title, 5 and 4, in a thrilling 36-hole victory over de la Torre, shooting even par golf to take advantage of the Northwestern boy's three-hole wild streak in the middle of the afternoon round. 
As Charley Bartlett of the Chicago Tribune said, "Tatum played champion­ship golf, worthy of any national eompe­tion, to win. For the 32 holes be worked, he was even par. And he literally had to work them, for the comparativdy untried de la Torre rose to the occasion and played the best golf of his 20 years." 
After halving the first hole with bird­ies, Sandy's birdie won the second. Man­uel won the third and eighth with pars, but Tatum squared it with a birdie at the ninth. Tatum went ahead for good with long birdie putts on the 12th and 13th, and a par on the 14th. Manuel came iig^t back with birdie putt, both out of divot holes, at the 15th and 16th, but Tatum's par and birdie put him 3 up at the end of 18. 
They halved the 20th with long birdie putts, exchanged two holes, and then Sandy took a decisive advantage with pars on the 25th, 26th, and 27th, while de la Torre was wild. The latter showed his real heart when he dropped a 30-foot sidehill putt for a half on the 28th, sank a 7-footer for a birdie and a half on the 30th, and, dormie six, came back to win the 31st. His tee shot was wild on the 31st, but his second, out of a clump of trees—despite the fact that a branch in­terfered with his backswing-^gfave him a par. He stymied Sandy, causing him to take a buzzard 6. Pars for both boys on the 32nd ended the match. 
To the South Bend Country club, and I>articularly William J. Learmonth, pres­ident; Pete Hodkinson, professional and general manager; and R. A. (Cap) Smith, of the tournament committee, Notre Dame owes a large vote of thanks. 
The Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C, general tournament chairman, did a mag­nificent job in conjunction with Charles (Chick) Evans, Jr., the N.C.A.A. golf c<»nmittee chairman, and Payseur. Fa­ther Holderith, hampered by a cold and swami)ed with 'pre-toumament detail, wasn't able to give his team the final touches it needed to top off its undefeated season with an even better showing in the Intercollegiates. 
Capt. Wilson, who qualified with 151, defeated Ted Gwin, University of Okla­homa, 2 and 1, before losing to Kuntz as recorded previously. Bill Fisher of the Irish, who had 152, lost, 1 down, to W. 
E. Beckjord of Yale (150), who prompt­ly lost to Stewart, 3 and 2. William Moorhead of Notre Dame (154) lost to Speio Daltas (153), 4 and 3, in the first round. Paul Malloy of the Irish, brother of Pat, qualified with 155 and lost in the first round to Harry Simpson (152) of Pitt, one of Pennsylvania's best amateur swingers. 
Summer semester victories over the Notre Dame N.T.S., and Michigan State, pins a tie with Northwestern, enabled the golfers to match the football team's record of eight victories and a tie. John Corny, a qualifier in the 1941 intercoUe­giate, was unable to leave his defense job as a chonist in St. Louis to play in the '42 comjietition. Gene Fehlig, one of the Irish mainstays during-the past three seasons, devdoped an annoying habit of shanking his shots just before the tour­ney. A quidc lesson from Gene Sarazen, a tournament spectator, after a first round 84 bron^^t Gene down to 77 the second day, but he was still six strokes off the pace with his 161. 
Additional Sports 
Track 
The track squad disintegrated rapidly following the Indiana State meet which was covered in the preceding issue of the ALVMNVS. We hasten to explain that the falling-apart process does not reflect one whit on the ability of Coach Al Handy, successor for the duration, to Ensign William P. Mahoney, U.S.N.E. 
But the ending of the spring semester May 10, the chance for summer em­ployment, conscription, enlistments, last­chances-to-be-home-before-enlistment, and even marriage managed to distract the hoys to the extent that Coach Handy had 

. something less than a quorum available for the Central Collegiate conference meet at Milwaukee June 6. 
Jim Delaney, as expected, took the shot put title with a throw of 48 feet 8% inches. Bob Vicars captured the javelin title with a throw of 185 feet 8% inches. Ollie Hunter avenged previous two-mile defeats at the hands of Virgil Alston of Miami and Earl Mitchell of Indiana with a snappy victory in 9 minutes 17.1 sec­onds. Frank Conforti, after setting a swift pace for two lap's, had to be con­tent with third place behind Campbell Kane's 4:17.9 victory in the mile run. Austin Jones, sophomore discovery, was fifth in the 49.6 quarter. 
The Irish finished sixth in the team standings behind Wisconsin's 2729/30 points, Notre Dame scoring. 19. Indiana, Marquette and Michigan State, none of whom could come close to the Irish in dual competition, were also ahead of the depleted Notre Dame squad. 

Capt. Ray Boy, who has received a Navy commission, was married this spring and was engrossed with seeking said commission. George Schiewe, who ran a 48.6 quarter this spring, pulled a leg muscle in the Army meet and was not seen on the campus again. Bill DiUdn, triple winner in the State meet, returned to his- Harbor City, Calif., home to visit the folks before being drafted, a fate which was about to materialize as these lines were written. Gene Fehlig, quarter-miler, had long since deserted the track team for the golf squad. Keith O'Rourke left for home after the Army meet, hav­ing suffered a pulled leg muscle. Jack WiethoS took what little vacation he could get before returning for. the sum­mer semester. With these point winners on hand, and with only half of them in top shape, the Irish could have walked in at Milwaukee, in the opinion of most midwestem experts. 
The competition got considerably stiffer a week later at Lincoln, Nebr., but the 
Irish still took sixth place in the annual 
N.C.A.A. tournament. CaptaiurEleet Jim Delaney celebrated his election with a toss.of 51 feet 8% inches which broke his own all-time Notre Dame outdoor record and got him third place. Hunter captured second in the two-mile behind the fine 
9:10 performance of Cazares of Fresno State. Conforti, who isn't afiraid of any­one, again took the pace, but didn't have quite the finish to beat such stars as Ted Ginn of Nebraska, Leroy Weed of South* em California, and Leslie MacMitcheU of N.Y.U. Frank, however, stuck in there for fourth place, and had the satisfaction of knowing he had paced the nationally-known stars to a 4:11.1 effort. 
Only Southern California, Ohio State, California, Nebraska, and Minnesota managed to finish ahead of the Irish.. Rice tied Notre Dame with 18 points. There were 28 pretty fair teams behind Notre Dame, not including those who failed to score. 
Tennis 

The greatest tennis team in Notre Dame history lived up to that billing, and more, in the first rqnnd of doubles of the N.C.A.A. tournament at New Or­leans, but the luck of the draw buried Irish hopes in the second round of the tandem game, and the first round of singles. 
That this is not just an alibi for Prof. Walter Langford's racquet experts is more or less established by the fact that there were gents still playing on the third day who lost decisively to Notre Dame men during the season. 
The No. 1 Irish doubles team of Capt. Dan Canale and Bob Faught downed BiU Culver and Eric Pratt of Kalamazoo, 6-2,­6-2, in the first round, but ran into Em­ery N^ e and James Wade of Stanford, mnners-up for the title. The Stanford pair won, 6-2, 6-3. 
The No. 2 Notre Dame unit fared as ' well, Olen Parks and Jim Ford i)airing to eliminate Elston-Wyatt'and.Hardy Fowler of Navy, 7-5, 4-6, 6-3, before meeting the championship Stanford duo of Ted Schroeder and Larry Dee in the second round. The Indians who accom­plished an all-Stanford final in both singles and doubles, took the Irish pair, 7-9, 6-0, 6-0. 
Walter Driver of .Texas eliminated Caiiale, 4-6, 7-5, 6-1, in a first round up­set. Driver losing to Wyatt of Navy in the second round. 
Bob Odman of the University of Wash­ington defeated Parks, 6-4, 6-3. Neale of Stanford disposed of Faught, but only after a 10-8, 8-6 struggle. Ford lost to 
Harry Fowler of Navy, &-2,'6-3. . 
The four-man Notre Dame:repreaeiita­
tion wanned op for the National diain­
pionships with an appearanee in ^the' 
Texas Open tournament at Honston. The 
Irish all won in the first round, and. Car: 
nale and Parks won in the second ronn^ 
Faught and Ford losing in three sets. 
Parks upset the third seeded George Lii­
tleton, diampion of Irdand, 2-^ 6-0, 6-3, 
in the third round. Canale won £rqm 
Driver of Texas, the same gent who:wan 
from him in the Intercollegiate, 3-6, 7^, 
6-2. • 
Canale and Parks met in the quarter­finals, with the former winning, 6-3, 6-2. Canale lost in the semi-finals to Bay Gladman of Rice in strai^t sets. 
Both doubles teams won in the first round and lost-in the second round. 
SNYDER APPOINTS) 

Robert A. Snyder, Toledo, O., has been named Notre Dame freshman fooQMll coach, it was announced'by the Bev. Hu{^ O'DonneD, C.S.C., president, on July 10. The announcement confirmed earlier reports of Snyder's possible addi-: tion to the staff. 
One of the greatest passers and punt­ers in Ohio University history, Snyder starred for three years at fullback and halfback. He was the key man of the 1935 team, as a senior, when the Bob­cats wait undefeated, listing Illinois among-their victims. 
He was graduated in 1936 with the degree of'bachelor-of science in ednea-' tion. Shortly later, he married Ks s Eli­nor Kuney of Toledo, a classmate. They-have two children, both girls. 
After a year with the Pittsburgh Eagles, another with the Pittsbuii^ Americans, and a year with the Cleveland Rams, Snyder was traded to the Chicago Bears in 1939, and .he performed iriQi than- for three, years, alternating at . quarterback with Sid Luckman; He was noted as a field goal kicker, and a great field general-with the Bears. r. 
Because of. his fine personality and speaking ability, Snyder was named' by Owner-Coach George Halas more than any other member of the squad to repre^' sent, the'Chicago team at various frater-. nal and social functions. 
Head Coach Frank Leahy said that while Snyder's duties will consist prind-' pally of teaching thefireshmoii the mdi-. ment of the T-formation, he win also assist Head Backfield Coach Ed MeKeev­er with the varsity backs when time per-. mits, and will help with the scooting.-: 
Snyd« win fqr ^ any further profetK' sional pliiy while coaching at Notie Dame. " ' •. .?S' 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
(Continued from page 4) 

before he took to the air. He has the gift of being able to see the woods and the trees too, and he writes in the easy, ef­fortless style of the practiced craftsman. The result is that the form and substance 
HABRY W. FIANNEEY, '23 

of Assignment to Berlin make it a valu­able addition to eye-witness accounts of history in the making. 
Prof. Jose C. Corona, of the Depart­ment of Modem Language at the Uni­versiay, has completed translation of Scouting For Catholics, by Rev. Louis R. Barcelo, C.S.C.,'34. 
The book, which took four months for translation, de&ies the organization and operation of scouting. Its primary pur­pose is to show the value and connection to the Church of a Catholic Boy Scout organization. The Spanish translation will be circulated through Spanish-American countries. 
Richard Sullivan, '30, assistant profes­sor of English, is the author of "Sharer," a short story which appeared in the June issue of the American Mercury, and "In the Glass Darkly," a short story pub­lished in the spring issue of the Yale Review. 
Summer After Summer, first Sullivan novel, will be published Sept. 25 by Doubleday Doran. 
STATE DEPUTY HASLEX 

Henry Hasley, '28, of Fort Wayne, is the newly elected state deputy of the In­diana Knif^ts of Columbus. John Rocap, '30, of Indianapolis, is the new state ad­vocate. 
WARTIME INTERHALL PROGRAM 

Approximately two-thirds of the stu­dents enrolled in the Notre Dame summer semester are participating in the war­time interhall athletic program, it was announced by Dr. John A. Scannell, di­rector of interhall athletics. 
Twelve hundred and 50 of the 1,846 men enrolled have taken part in the ei|^t sports included in the program: baseball, Softball, golf, tennis, volleyball, boxing, track and swimming. Varsity coaches and members of the department of phy­sical education, which Dr. Scannell heads, are conducting the prog^ram, which con­sists of open competition and round-robin schedules. In addition to the under­graduates, the lay faculty and priests and brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross iare represented in some sports. , 
Other sports will be substituted this fall and winter. Plans are also under way for an obstacle course, nearly a mile long, to follow the fence around Cartier Field. 
Eight halls are active in the round-robin schedules. These are Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh , Dillon, Alumni, Sorin, Walsh, S t Edward's, and the Naval 
R.O.T.C. Zahm Hall, which houses the priests and brothers, is operating inde­pendently, challenging teams &oin the other halls. The faculty is working in the same way. Some halls have entered more than one team in a sport. 
Coach Jake Kline of the baseball squad is directing some 110 men, while nearly 300 others are participating in Softball under Vince Commisa, senior in physical education. There is little duplication, Dr. Scannell reports, practically none in base­ball and Softball. So many have reported for Softball that there are two leagues in operation, of eight and six teams, each. Ten individual teams are also playing on a challenge basis. Andy Chlebeck, 1941 captain and a .388 hitter over a three-year period, is assisting Coach Kline in baseball. 
An all-star interhall- baseball te«n, officially representing the school, is play­ing a schedule of games with outstanding amateur, college, and camp teams in the vicinity. 
Approximately 150 men, indnding religious faculty and lay faculty, are par­ticipating in a 10-team league in volley­ball, while another six-team league is 
being organized. 
Coach Walter M. Langf ord has organ­ized a round-robin schedule in tennis in which five singes and two doubles matches are played. Teams were picked by means, of open singles and doubles tournaments, and personnel is shifted constantly through the use of challenge ladders in each hall and in the faculty group. 
There is also a challenge ladder for the entire university by means of which a six-man singles and doubles team is maintained to represent Notre Dame in the Northern Indiana Tennis league. 
Coach Dominick Napolitanp of the box­ing squad has approximately 125 men in training here. There will be dual meets between various halls, and picked men will fight for University titles at the end of the term in September. 
Coach AI Handy of the track team reports some 40 men working daily, in­cluding several regular members of the track and football squads. This number is expected to increase considerably with the installation of the obstacle course. Nearly 150 men are training in cross­country now, running around St. Joseph and St. Mary's lakes. 
While little competition has been held as yet in swimming and golf, an esti­mated 150 men are using the facilities of the Rockne Memorial fieldhouse.pool and St. Joseph Lake daily. Playing of the recent N.C.AA. golf tournament in South Bend with Notre Dame in the role of host has delayed the Rev. George L. Hol­derith C.S.C, golf coach, in organizing a definite program, but the rivalry will be conducted along lines similar to the tomis competition. Meanwhile, an aver­age of some 200 students have used the 18-hole William J. Burke-Norte Dame course daily. 
The obstacle course will not be modeled after the short Army sprint courses. "Our objective is the building up of en­durance for -boys entering the armed forces," said Dr. Scannell recently. "The boys would not learn as much if we du­plicated the Army courses, since they would simply go from here to an identi­cal layout. We hope they will derive ben­efits from our course, and additional ben­efits from the Army courses." 
The program has been organized to its greatest peak in history in an effort to harden students who will be called to the colors either before or after graduation, and to provide wholesome diversion dur­ing the 15-week summer semester which was added at the request of the govern­ment to speed up the educational process from four years to two and two-thirds years. Funds for the maintenance of the program will come largely out of football receipts. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
I C '28. Y2C. e/o U. S. Nnal M* 

ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN Dq>ot. llehdlle; B. I. 
Mina. jMCfh C '39. 32nd Air Base Suuaituii.:; 

(Includins names received and classified on July 2) 
Tkieson, Ariz. 
Artnunn, William F., '31, Pvt., Co. A. 35th Bn. Camp Crowder, Mo. Asman, Beniy B., '32, Capt., Med. Corps, TJ. S. Army Air Corps, MacDill Field, Tampa, Fla. 
Becker, Charles H., '42, Ensign, USNR. Behe, Fnmda J., '41, Fvt., Battery A, Tth Bn., 3rd Regt, FARC, Fort Brage, N. C. Benedict. John T., '40, OfFicers Training Course 
No. 20, Fort Sill, Okla. Baanceney, Girard E., '37, Ensign, USNR. Bleisins, Michael L., '39, TJ. S. Army, Fort Leav­
enworth, Kan. Bon, Francis J., '26, Lt. Com., USNR. Bray, James F., '29, U.S. Army, Camp Crowder, 
Ho. Brodberser, John B., '40, 362 S.S., Barracks 612, Lowry Field, Colo. Basse, John E.. '42, Co. 20. AFRTC, Santa Ana, CaUf. Bustin, John G.. '31, Hdq. Co., Army War Shows, Fort George Meade, Md. Byrne, Frank L., ex. '27, Co. B, 32nd Bn., Camp Crowder, Mo. Byrne, James A,, Jr., '36, U. S. Marine Corps. 
Campagna, Joseph F., ex. '43, Army Air Force. Class 42-H, Enid Army Flying School, Enid, Okla. 
Caton, Joseph R., ex. '34, 1st Lt., Medical Corps., Camp Carson, Colo. Ceeala, Geoize G., '37, Fvt., Co. M,. 15th Signal Service Station, Fort Monmouth, N. J. Cederwall. Faol H., ex. '43, 84th Material Sqd., ' Las Vegas Army Gunnery School, Las Vegas, Nev. Concannon, Francis J., '42, Hq. Det., 2nd Bn., 385th Inf., APO No. 76, Fort George Meade, Md. 
Connors. Donald D.. '42, Fvt.. Barracks No. 14, Section Complement, Sta. Hospital, Medical Sec­tion, Fort Dix, N. J. 
Corcoran, Victor F., '42, 708th Chem. Platoon, 
A.F. Supply Base, Barksdale Field, La. Costa, John E.. '42, Ensign, USNR. Crockett. Charles W.. '32, 1st Finance Tng. Bn., 
Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. CroWIey. John H., '28, U. S. Naval Academy. Annapolis, Md. Cannincliam, Fsal S.. ex. '44, 1st Air Base Sqd.. Mitchell Field Hangar, Long Island. N. Y. 
Dean. Earl J - '42. Ensign. USNR. 
DeCoorsey, WUliam P.. '42, Pfc, 357th T.S.S.. Headquarters Flight. Jefferson Barracks, Mo. Delker. John J., '42, Pvt., Q.M. Det, Fort Mc­
Dowell, Calif. Derengoski. Robert A.. '39, Tech. Sgt., 125 Lake Forrest Parkway, Wilmington, N. C. Doan, Joseph E., ex. '38, Corp., Air Weather Base, 
Foster Field, Victoria, Texas. Dolan, Martin E.. '32, Fvt. Camp Crowder, Mo. Donovan, Clarence J.. '31, Capt. Cbmbat Intelli­
gence, Army Air Corps, Randolph Field, Texas. Dorgan. Joseph T., '37. In Service. Dabha. James A., ex. '37, 180 QJf. Co. (HM), 
A-P.O. 1942, c/o Postmaster,.Seattle, Wash. DoBTiDe, Howard A., '33, Pvt., 339th Inf., 3rd Bn. Hdq., Camp Shelby, Miss. Daggan, Jaracs U.. '42, Battery I, 243rd C. A. (H.D.), Fort Adams, R. I. 
Elwaid, Allen H., '16, Lt. Com., U. S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Hd. 
Farley, Joseph H., '22, Capt, Army IntelUgence Service. Fields. Cbrcnce E.. ex. '27, Y3C. USNR. U. S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, III. nnn , John F„ '35, 2nd Lt , 7th U.S. Cavalry, Fort Bliss, Texas. Fitigerald, Hagh F.. '34, Ensgn, USNR, Tliird 
Naval District Hdq., 90 Church St, New York City. Fitzpatiick. James T.. '34, Ffc, Hq. A Hq., Squad­ron, Mather Held, Calif. Flanagan, Ban r G.. '42, Co. A, Barracks 2. 26th Trng. Div.. Camp Croft, S. C. Flynn, John R., '23, Capt, Tech. Trng. Com., JeHerson Barracks, Mo. Flynn. Thomas J., '35, FVt. Co. B. 38th Bn., Camp Crowder, Mo. Fogarty, Robert J., ex. '41, Army Mr Corps. El­lington Field, Texas. Foley, Thomas J., Jr.. '35, Pvt, Co. D, 34th Bn., Camp Crowder, Mo. 
Gartland. James H., '41, Pvt., Co. F, 2nd Bn., 801st S.S.R., Camp Murphy, Hobe Sound, Fla. Gibbs, Daniel S., '38, V-5, Naval Reserve Air 
Corps, Glenview, III. Gill, John F.. '33, Ensign, USNR. Giorgio, Dr. Douglas J., '34, U. S. Naval Reserve 
Med. Corps, Naval Air Base, Quonset Point, RX Goctz. Frank H., ex. '31, Med. Det, 326 Inf., 82nd Div., Camp Claiborne, La. Graliker. Stephen G., '42, U. S. Naval Reserve Air Base, Glenview. III. Grazier. Floyd C, ex. '39, 2nd Lt, V. A. F. S., Victorville, Calif. Greene, Thomas E., '38, Sgt., 853 Signal Service 
Co., Morrison Field, West Palm Bead), Fla. Griffin, Herman T., '37, Ensign, U.S.NJC Griffin, John J., '39, U. S. Marine Corps. Officers 
Candidate School, Quantico, Va. Gninon, Charles H.. '26, Corp., Canadian Army, Debert, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
Hanifin, Rer. Thomas J., ex. '16, Capt, Fort Sill, 
Okla. Hartnett, Joseph P., Jr.. '29, Lt (i.g.), U.SJfJl. Haynes. Harold F., '23, Lt . V.SMJt. Heintzberger, Henry J.. '40, Ensign, U.SJUt., 
Patrol Squadron 5, Avila, Calif. Heintzelman, James H.. '40, Lt , Officers Training 
School, Fort Sill, Okla. Herb, Francis J., '37. In Navy. Hicfcey, Donald F.. '38, Ensign, U.SJfJC, Hamil­
ton Hall B-13, Soldier Field, Cambridge, Haas. Hoyer, Thomas E.. '42, Aviation Tech. School, Scott Held, Belleville, III. 
Hnlihan, Robert A.. '42, Naval Aviation Flight Training, U. S. Naval Training Station. Uni­versity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N. C. 
Hatmacher. Engcne S.. '42, Ensign, U.SJfJC. 
Jeffers, Howard F.. '36, Co. B, 72nd Tr. Bn., 15th Regt., Gamp Joseph T. Robinson, Ark. Jodon, James J., ex. '42, Staff Sgt, Officers Can­didate School, Miami Beach, Fla. 
KcUey. John J.. '33, L t (j.g.), U.SJI.R. Keogh. Joseph P., Dr.. ex. '31, U.SJUC, Great Lakes Naval Hospital, Great Lakes, III. Kerrigan. William J., ex. '31, U.SJIJt., Naval Training Station, Great Lakes, 111. Kirwan. Edward E.. '27, Lt , U.S.NJC C.E.C., 1016 Park Ave., Richmond, Va. Kosky, Edwin S.. '33, U. S. Naval Academy, An­
napolis, Md. Kramer. Leiand P., Jr.. '34, Lt, U.SJ{.R. Leahy, Beniaid P..- '32, Co. D, 26th Med. Bn., 
Camp Grant, lU. . 
Lynch, Patridc J.. Jr.. '35, Ensign, U.S.NJL Lynch. Robert J., ex. '36, T-108 Billings General Hospital, Fort Beniamin Harrison, Ind. 
MacLeod. ArcUbaU A.. '42, Battery H, 214 CJU (A-A.),'Camp Stewart, Ga. 

Haher. Joseph &. '41. U. S. Naval IVaining Sta­tion,' Platoon 1, Co. .A, Univeraty of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina. 
IfeCaKtiT. Jsufh J„ ex. '42. Amy. Air Cotpik Oxnaid, Calif. HcCnaack, Dandi J.. '3«, Pvt. Co.\ D, 34^ Bn.. Camp Crowder, Mo. HcDaaawk. Aaiicw L..'19, Ckpt. HaidttoB IWd. Calit HeGansa. WObua V.. '41, U. S. Naval Aeadoay. Annapolis. Md.. 
•cGcc^ Jstni H,. ex. '30. L t CoL in V. S. Seniee. Philippine Islands. ' ' McGnth. Jeha A., ex. '43. COL B, 1st C.W.S. lbs. . Bn., Edgewood Arsenal.'Hd. '. HcGaiic^ Jaaca H.. '37. Co. A. 21st BO. BXB.T.C.. 2nd. PUtoon. Fort HeCleUan. Ala. . ' HcGairc. Dr. WiEaB. A , ex. '38. Great iakcs Naval Hospital. Great Lakes. VL HcKeam Jaacah M^ '49. Pvt. 32nd Tr. Btk. Bide 16S, Camp Cboft, S. C. 
HcHahsa. Mirer K.. ex. 'S8. U. S. Navainaialac Station. University of North Cuoliaa. Chapd .­Hill. North Carolina. 
Hetqar. Vwnmdm B,. r42. Ensign. U.SJfJL ' Mstrimi. Chadts IL. '38. Ill Carlisle Way. Nn­

folk, Va.  .  •  .  . .  
Harriasii. Pail  H ,  '40. U. a  Naval  
Philadelphia. Ph.  

Bfarray. Jaha T , Jr , '33, Lt . U.SjrJt. 
Nadu Jaha R.. '29, Capt, Army Eogiiaeeriaic. Corps. 
OViiea, Walter J.. '35, Ensign. U.SJI.B. ­fyCmmta. Jassfk C , '40. Camp WoHota. TWza*. O'FIahertr. Als>rsiaa E.. Jr.. ex. '22. Hajor. 
Honofailii. T. H. Cakta, Patrick BahW. '39. Co. B; 90th XcainiBS Braadi. 3rd Bn.. CampBofaerts. Calif. 
, J. Erwst. ex. '29. 2nd Lt, InAntiy. -Pepebjali^ Mlrhslii F.. '42. Co. H. 5th .QJLTJS, Fort Francis K Warren, Wyo. Pclara. Kaitia J.. '36. U. S. Naval Acadcnr. An­
• napoKs. Hd. PitUa. Canal P.. -42. 398th School Sdoadmn. 

Flight C. Keesler FSdd. Ksa. PabaU. Daaid tL, tx.'43. Co. B. 307th Had. Bii.. 
A.P.O. 82. Gamp Claiborne; La. 

P*«h'^ JMn G,. '40. Pvt. COL EL Eth B. QHIIb Fort Firaneis £ Wanea. Wyo. 
(Nitfcr, Patrick P., '35. Storekeeper 3 a "aNR . 
U. S. Naval 'nraining Statirai. Great Lafcci^ IIL 

Bei4r. David L.. '41. T9th Air Base Sq.. CMet Barracks 17-7. Waco Army Flyintc Sdiool. Vaco^ Kexas. 
BeMy. Elwaid P.. '42. Naval Beacrva Aviatfoo 
Base. Glenview, ni. Beflly. Jaha JL, '42, 12th T.SA. Seott FU). VL ^•fc'th. Geaigc H , '42. U. S. Army Air Ctaipa. 
-Southeast Air Corps IVaining Det. T:.trf.-j Fla. Bwti; Jaasfk B.. '38. V. S. Naval Acadevy. Annapolis. Hd. Byam'DsMli T..-32, Lt . U.SJfJL ^ 
HrhrBrahtifc Bawaid J , '42. Pvt. Co. A. Sad Pbtoon.- 54th Hed. Tc. Bn.. Ckmp BatUay; Texas. 
SiesKT, Jaaeih B , '32. Pvt, lOlat a A. Brie: (AJL) Tng. Bn, Diahk>, CaSL Salsdawikl. Albad A , '37, Sgt. 44th Dlr. Cnlar. Coi. £ Tlst Int. Det. A.P.O. 44. IWt tawlK 'Wash. S»ri^ WObB •„ ex. '30. 1st Sgt. 21st Coi. Ulh BB.. 3rd Stndent It. Begt;. BaiaMay OoA . Ana. Fort Beaaing. Ga. a*** »«"aa J, Jr, '34. Ensign Naval TCMu^ 
lac Statko. Qntt Lakes. HL ^•''•^ Wamatt X> 'Sf. l a Anay. *••••. »•»* *•. '*». «2Bd Flghtar. Graaai'.Mlk 
PIgUcr flqpaihu^ Hiota FUd. b^nraa^ CUU. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
SalUvan WUlUm D., '40. Lt. (je). U.S.N.R., U. S. Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, K. I. 
Tbompson, Georze &, *42, Naval Aviation Flight 
Training, tJ. S. Naval Aviation Reser\*e Base, 
New Orleans, La. 

Uhl, Robert C , '42, P^-t., Fl. B 320, 31Sth S.S.. Keesler Field. Hiss. 
Yoang Daniel A.. Jr., '34, Pvt., Troop B, 102nd Cavalry, Fort Jackson, S. C. ToanE, James A., '39, Lt., Med. Adm. Corps, Station Hospital, Camp Wolters, Texas. 
Wade. Charles SL, ex. '43, Co. A, 1st Bn., F.A.­K.T.C., Fort Knox, Ky. Weiss. Charies J.. Jr.. '32, Co. B, otli Eegt., BIdg. 224. Fort Francis E. Warren, Wyo. Wiesdlluas. LeBoy J.. '41, Army Air Corps, F. F. 
395 Barracks, Keesler Field. Miss. Willett. Alkert B., '20, Capt In Australia. Winnincer, Francis A., '38. Corp., Co. A, 34th 
Bn., Camp Crowder Mo. 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
(Continued from page 2) 

Dr. Sigfrido V. Gross Brown, professor of law and director of internal revenue from Asuncion, Paraguay, stopped - at Notre Dame on June 6 long enough to speak to the students of the colleges of Commerce and Law on the labor legisla­tion in the Paragrnayan republic. 
NOTRE DAME MATHEMATICS 
Dr. Karl Menger, head of the Depart­ment of Mathematics, recently attended at Purdue a meeting of a committee ap­pointed by the State Board of Education to revise the current curriculum in high school science. Dr. Menger is a member of the committee. 
The Indiana section of the Mathemati­cal Association of America, at its annual meeting at Wabash College, April 25, elected Prof. Paul M. Pepper of Notre Dame as vice-president for the coming year. The next annual meeting ^vill be held at Notre Dame. Dr. Pepper pre­sented a paper on "Linear Sets and Almost-Linear Sets." 
At Purdue University, Dr. Menger talked before the American Association of Scientific Workers on "Some Trends of Modem Mathematics," and before the Purdue Mathematics. Department on "Some Aspects of Metric Geometry." Professor Menger was introduced by Professor W. L. Ayres, the new head of the Department of Mathematics at Pur­due. In 1928-29, Dr. Ayres worked under the direction of Prof. Menger at the Uni­versity of Vienna. 
FROM ST. AUGUSTINE 
•Historically, important records from the parish of St. Augustine, Fla., prob­ably the oldest parish in the United States, will be stored for the duration of the war in the archives at Notre Dame. 
Shipment of the records was announced recently by the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, head of the Department of His­tory and University archivist. The docu­ments-include 15 volumes of the baptis­mal, burial and marriage records of the St. Augustine parish from 1594 to 1763. 
The so-called "Golden Book of the Mi­norcans" is also included. This contains the records of the baptisms, marriages and burials of the Minorcan Colony which came to New Smyrna, Fla., in 1768 and then went to St. Augustine as a refugee group in 1777. 
In addition the shipment contains the records of the church wardens of the parish of St. Augustine in the 1820's and '30's. A microfilm copy of the records has been retained in the diocesan archives in Florida. 
NEW BAND UNIFORMS 
Two changes affecting the Notre Dame band were announced recently by Daniel 
H. Pedtke, head of the Department of Music. The first involved new uniforms for the band this fall, while the second introduced the first of a series of guest conductors of the band during the sum­mer absence of Director Joseph Casa­santa. 
The new iinifonns will feature a Sam Brown belt, gold braid around the left shoulder, with the traditional gold and blue trousers and coat and an overcoat of undecided pattern. The entire uniform will feature military styleL 
Franklyn L. Wiltse, superintendent of instrumental music in the schools of St. Joseph, Mich., is the first of the guest conductors. Two outdoor concerts have been presented by the band under his direction. 
AIR TRAINING AT N. D. . 
The University has received word that, under new regulations, the training for­merly available to civilian pilots is now offered only for training of pilots for war purposes. 
Two phases of the new program, ac­cording to Bev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C., military coordinator, include an extra­curricular training of 16 weeks open to those students at Notre Dame already enlisted in Class V-1 or Class V-5 of the Navy, and an accelerated eight-weeJc pro­gram, full time. This second phase is open to anyone assigned by the Navy from its Class \-5 backlog, and to any­one assigned by the Army Air Corps who has faUed the Air Corps examination and is fit only for non-combatant service. 
Under the second phase. Navy enlisted men are now receiving pilot training on the Notre Dame campus. These men will receive ground school and other instruc­tion on the campus, and will take their flight training at the Sonth Bend airport under instructors of the two air services there. 
FACULTY IN SERVICE 
Six Notre Dame faculty members have entered government military ser­vice within recent weeks. Included in the g^roup are Thomas J. Stritch, '34, Daniel 
C. O'Grady, John J. Fitzgerald, William 
J. Arbnckle, George M. Reichle and Dr. Joseph R. Caton, ex. '34. 
Mr. Stritch, associate professor of English, was commissioned as an ensign in the U. S. naval intelligence and is sta­tioned at Great Lakes, 111. Mr. O'Grady, professor of philosophy, a member of the faculty since 1926, was drafted and sent to Camp Perry, O. 
The Philosophy Department has also lost Mr. Fitzg^erald, assistant professor, who had been at Notre Dame since 1937; he received a naval commission as a lieutenant (jg). Mr. Arbuckle, instructor in music since 1940, joined the personnel division of the Army Air Corps and Mr. Reichle, instructor in speech since 1941, is at Camp Shelby, Miss. 
Dr. Caton, lecturer in Social Work and assistant University physician, is sta­tioned at Camp Carson, Colorado Springs, Colo, as a first lieutenant in the Army. He joined the University staff in 1938. 
LIEUT. V. E. JOHNSON DIES 

The Navy lost a brilliant mathemati­cian when Lieut. Victor E. Johnson, 40­year old head of the Mathematics De­partment at the Notre Dame naval train­ing station, died of a sudden heart attack at his South Bend home on June 6. He was the first man at the training station to die. 
Lieut. Johnson, a graduate of the 1925 class of the United States Naval acad­emy, left a prominent real estate business in Badne, Wis., to return to active ser­vice. In Racine he had been instructing coast guard reservists and civilian pilot trainees in navigation and mathematics. 
Lient. Johnson is survived by his wife, Loma, and a daughter, Mary, aged 10. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
The 1940-1941 Alumni Board 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., '11, New York City........... JTonoror?/ President Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit and Lansing, Mich ..J'resident Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, Indianapolis, Ind First Vice-President Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los Angeles, Calif. Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind. Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind Assistant Secretary Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, 111 Director to 19i2 John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich Director to 1943 William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind Director to 19H 
Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, Mentor, Ohio Ray J. Eichenlaub, '15, ColTimbns, Ohio 
MILITARY MEETINGS 
CAMP CROWDER. MO. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by eight Notre Dame men who are now residing in or near Joplin. Mo. Kve of those in attendance at the celebration are stationed at nearby Camp Crowder. 
Tom Flynn, *35, who is now in the classification section at Gamp Crowder. contacted all known Notre Dame men at the army base, while Mort DoBthat. '35, and Bob Brmeckel, '29, rounded up interested alumni in Joplin. 
Soldiers stationed at Camp Crowder who attend­ed the party included Pvt. Tom Foley, '35: Prt. Donncll McConnack. '36; Pvt. Gnz CecaU, '37; Pvt. Martin Dolan, *32; and Pvt- Tom Flynn, '35. Other" Notre Dame men at Camp Crowder who were unable to attend were Pvt. BUI Artman. '31: Pvt. Frank Byrne, ex. '28: Pvt, Frank Kennedy, '41: Corp. Frank Winninger, '38: James Gartland. '41: Tom Bnlger, '39; and Jim Bray, '29. 
Civilians in attendance were Bfort Donthat, Boh Braedcel, both' of Joplin, and Bliducl Mc-CormadE, '99, of Memphis, father of Donnell. Due to the shifting population at Camp Crowder, it would be difticult to establish a permanent or­ganization in the area. It is planned, however, to have frequent informal gatherings. 
CORPUS CHRISTI NAVAL BASE 
Local alumni and officer and cadets from the Naval Air Station celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at a dinner given at the Iron Bell in Corpus Christ!. Although plans were made for a large dinner, naval regulations and other factors cut attendance to nine. The broadcast, whidi came through while the dinner was in progress, had fairly good reception. 
Alumni who managed to attend the affair in­cluded Ensign George Kerwin, Jiramie Meaney, Frank Reidy, Art Waldron, Ensign Jim McGoire. Cadet Jokn Hart, Tom McArdle and Bill Green. Father HcGann. dieplain of the Naval Air Sta­tion, was also present. 
The group gathered as a body for a Communion Breakfast on Mother's Day. Alumni, through ar­rangements made by Father HcGann, received C(Hnmunion at the Naval Air Station and from there went to Tom McArdle's house for breakfast. An impromptu songfest, with Mrs. McArdle at the piano, followed breakfast. 
Attending the Communion Breakfast were Tom McArdle, Bill Green, Bab Sana«, Joim Gavan, Jba Meaney, Frank Reidy, Art Waldron, Jolin Casey and Jolui Kelly and a few others. 
Director to 1945 Ex-Officio Director to 1942 
Jerry Green is now Sgt. James J. Green at Mc­Clellan Field. He is due to start flight training shortly, however, and will probably be transferred. Brother Tom Green, with his wife and three husky youngsters, is doing well with a prcnninent insurance business in St. Paul.­
Bin Green 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Lows a Bfnrphy, '33, 2S57 UviBSStMi.AT*., Colombns, Pres.; Daniel F. €••••• , *>•• 8 East Bnwd St., Colnmhns, Sec 
The club held a testimonial dinner for Jndge James R. Fitzgibbons, '92, Newark. Ohio, at the Elks* Club, Columbus, in recognition of the golde:* anniversary of his graduation from the University and his long years of devotion and sovice to the school. Approximately 175 persons attended the banquet, including judges, local attorneys, the Bar Association of Newark and friends from Newark and Columbus. 
Don M. Hamilton served as toastmaster and called upon the Hon. Charles W. Montogmery, judge of the Court of Appeals, and the Hon. F. BL Black, judge of the Common Pleas Court at New­ark. Both were law partners of BIr. Fitzgibbons and they related the early history of the law firm of Fitzgibbons, Montgomery and Black. Highest tributes were paid to their former law partner. 
Ray Eidienlaab came throufi^' with some stories of Rodcne and a baseball story about Jndge Flta-
Jadge JaiKs R. FHnibbsai. ft, Newark, O.. was the gncst at a dinner ia aUd-May aiiamed in Colambas by On Central OUa Chb I* haaar the gidden anniversary af'the Jadga's gradaatisa from the University. Present were 175 peisaaa^ indading many of the leading dtiieas fraa bath. Newark and Colaaibas. 
In this pietare taken at the dinner. Dan Caanaa. 
KikbMW which was conc^ned with Notcc DUM's game against Northwestern in 1892. Nobtv SMMB monograms' for football and baseball ynrm pre­sented to ^^Fitz," and a Notre Dane blaiilBrt eamm from aAotA for him. Telegrams and letten froai Fatlwr Hash OTDummA and Frank f iifcy wcz« read by Seh. 
Jndga Frank Baltm of Newark was izninteft­tionally neglected when it cama to intfodbetiDM» bat the club inuita him to know there are 1 things in store for him in time to < 
CHICAGO 
J«fai F. Cbiib IS. 4TM WiJInlii 81. 
atam^ rn*.: rwatltm •. Itaa. 1*. SU 
iTdi St. WHMMC. nu SK. 
ILivins: soccesfolfar weathend UniTen,] Nat » . Dame Nisht, Chicago Clnb mfnilwra due in for three months of cooipaiative inaetivitT. the aniraal solf'toaniament beiiis the next bhie plate ipeeial on the bill of fare. 
When the officers and sovemors 'sat down to audit the resolts of the annnal Uniwsal Micht, they foond that income exceeded ootso and that isn't liay in these times 
' President'Jade Cbik has passed the badtr aa all Chicago Clnb pxesidenta do. hy "•••™ir the perennial golf committee eO'^hairmen. U 1*il» kempcr and Fran Odctkk. Bursar BiO. -who had recently forsalcen the Palmer Hdna, for Stwip baker, promptly came down with a miaetr of tiie sacro-illiac, -and Oelerich went off. oa a vegetable ioiee selling'jonlcet.' 
Bat the golf tournament will come off aa nsoal. probably in late July or early Aogiat, at aosH coarse no farther west than Denver.^ Priorities haven't hit the gM bokness yet. bat JacL IM^r has had to give np the biigAtly eokncd nmbcella whidi a caddy holds over the Daffy bead aa the master blisters the coarse. 
The board of governors has been hard Iiit by defections to the military life. Incident preddent Bany O'Kscfe has joined the naval iMciia aad is now a lieatienant. jonior grade. Jae Dacsaa ia in artillery offieexs* training adwol ia Con­neeticat. 
This being an even-nambered year, plans are afoot for the biennial edition of the Chicago Clnb 
sacrrtaiT af tha-dab^ Hita the pnidmate.aedar fiaai.Itft «• right: M 
BHIaer. Dr. Flamrigaa, . Jadge F.H. -•aak a( Ncwaik. Jadga Ctarica W. MiiiUimiiJ af Ib« ­aifc, Daa HamlHia. Mi l ItCantwdtTta ShaikaB. Jadia FhagMsM. Diu CauM ; Jeny IHaaacMv* ••d Ifufhy. d * piiiliint. KayFlthtJ Mbw WMW ly Neater. MM Dae* airf Jade Ciaaaa, 

TheNotre Dame Alumnus 
directory It would be superfluous to say that it will be bigser and better than ever before. Franklyn E. Dean 
CINCINNATI 
Ridtmrd H. Shiels, ex. *33, 1251 Gest St , Pres.; Walter J. Nienaber, '37, 1558 Eliza­beth Place, Sec 

AVe had a fine celebration on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Maketewah Country Club and a record crowd of members joined in the party. The bowling alleys were used plenty most of the evening. Larry Janszen, Al Castellint, and Dwiebt Broeman put on a swell exhibition, but Bert Schloemer had high score of the evening with a fat 234. 
Tom Cmmley has graduated from Officers' Training School as a second lieutenant. John Cot­tini^ m is the latest club member about to be inducted into the Army. 
A few months ago the club started a regular monthly Commtmion-breakfast meeting. Ihe club members receive Communion in a body at the Fenwick Club Chapel, after which breakfast is served. 
Bob Scltenal showed up a few weeks ago ^vith a beautiful tan. Upon digging into the matter I found that he had just returned from another vacation in Florida. 
We wish to welcome two new members into our club. Jack Basse and Walter Heekin, both of whom graduated this year. 
Hiree si}eedy airplanes were seen over Cincy the other night doing so many fancy tricks that many people were wondering who the "aces" were. When the planes landed, the pilots were found to be Jeny Gohman, Dwight Broeman and Dick Shiels. 
Walt Nienaber 

CLEVELAND 
Ckailes E. Bohr. Jr., 'Se. 4024 Headowbrook Bird., Pns. ; Dr. Bfyron E. Crawford, '32, C7I8 Franklin Ave., Sec 

Hie annual golf party, this year staged as a "Mentor Migration," was such an outstanding affair that it isn't over yet. The winner of the cup for low gross, either Krai or Morrissey, will be decided on the flip of a coin when the two rivals can be brought together. 
'ISvas a grand party, with a large field playing Black Brook golf conrse during the afternoon, and 150 happy and hungry guests gathering in the evening at Mentor Harbor Yacht Club where they ate heartily and enjoyed short talks from Father Jslln Cavanaxli. Frank Leahy, and Mayor Frank l.ausche. Rapt attention was accorded the flim "Highlights of 1941." as Leahy explained details. Co<hainnen MorriMey and Pat Canny did a fine job of promoting the event, held in honor of Father Mifhael Bloriarty, in his own back yard. A feature of the party was an ingenious scheme which profited $83 for our own U.S.O. work. De­tails will be sent upon request to parties interested in raising funds for worthy causes! 
And that brings to words the very fine work done by Haiiae O'Neill, Stan Cofall, Piene Oianpion, diadc Hooney, Pat Canny, Joe Heiman and several other alumni as they sparked a drive that netted over 'J400,000 for the St Ann's Ma­ternity Hospital expansion campaign. 
Jade CaDlBs home from his army post for a few days, contented but not very newsy. 
Word conies to Cleveland from Fort Shafter that Gay Haas and family are safe and well. 
Doctsr Bad O'Brien home from St. Louis with his bride, the former Mary Vaughn Kelly, and they living at 30II1 Center Ridge Bd.. Westlake. O. 
Toa (Telephone) Byrne and wife, Catherine. enjoying a second son, who was blessed at St. 
Ann's Hospital by Bishop O'Hara on his recent trip here to address the N.C.C.W. convenition. 
Bob Grisanti succeeding Val Desk as co-editor of the "Western Beser\-e Law Notes"—a nice honor. 
And the same Deale being elected to the Order of the Coif, honorary national legal fraternity upon bis graduation from Reserve. Val is now with the law firm o£ Thompson, Bine, and Flory. 
Dr. Pick Lieser completing his intemeship at Charity Hospital, marrying Miss Helen Gallat^er. St. Mary's, July 3, at Notre Dame, and making plans for Army duty. 
Bob Butler has accepted an Army Air Corps commission. Brother John Bntler has left the county prosecutor's office to take up with the OPA here. 
Jerry Hammer selling wine with his dad for the Hammer Wine Co. 
Dan Puffy taking over duties as counsel for the Street Car Men's Union, 
Georee Kozak reporting the acquisition of a new daughter, and a new motor lawn mower for the acre of grass about his new home. 
Frank McCarty leaving for N. D. to join the V-7 group in training there. 
"Little John" Doyle marrying Cleveland's Tot Malloy in California where he is stationed on Army duty. 
Plant protection and anti-sabotage measures are claiming the attention of Ed Blatt at Eaton Iffg. Co. 
How about a swell day with the Cleveland Club en an all-day boat ride and picnic to end at Cedar Point? 
Mike Ctawford 

DELAWARE 
(New Club) 
E, J. Bafler. 'U, 2324 WariOavtm St . WB­mincton, Pres.; John J. Vettanc^ "SS, ISlt Ddaware Arc, Sec 

The following new men have put in their ap­pearance in the Wilmington area: Baiael Kartx, PhJ>^ M2; Edward Dillon, PhJ).„ '42; WOHam Murray, Fh.D., *42; Hiomas Decnan, Ch.E., *42; Walter Cordea. Cb.£., '42. 
Thomas Blohm, Ch.£l. '42, has not, as this is written, put in his appearance because of illness. 
The following men have been transferred from the Wilmington area to Louisville: WiUard AnzUotti, Ph.D., '40; Norbert F. Tousidnt, Ph.D., '40. 
lliese men have been associated with the neo­prene diviaon of the doPont Company and have been chosen as members of the technical staff which will place the new neoprene plant in opera^ tion at Louisville. We wish them God-^wed in their new undertaking and hope that the members of the Xiouisville Club will get in contact with these men when they arrive and make them feel at home. John J. VcKhaac 
DENVER 
Jaha HwDphrcys, '32. M2S Saee St. Pn«.; Jolm CmiKll, "SS, 2718 Vmmne St. 8a& WHh commaTWHng offiecrs of the United StetM Army, Navy, Hatinea; Air Corps, and Ooaat Goaid 
llie ICay meeting seemed to be more of a ''committee nig^t" than anything else as President John Hamphreys named, heads and members of eight different committees. 
At the helm of the monb^^ip eooindttce is Gene Blish; scholarship and football eomotittee is headed by Al Frantz; Rockne trophy »»•"•»jt^^ 
Jae Heyets; civilian defense committee, Jim Lacaa; war service committee, Fred GoAant; entertainoient ecHnmittee, co-^airmen AI Doods and Eddie Owens; Catholic Action committee. Jack ; and the publicity committee. Gene Blisli. 
Hie remainder of the football fond was trans­ferred to the-general fond of the Club. It was snggested by Ed Mansfield that the smokers for radio and newi^paper men be continued. 
Joe MarduU, branch manager of labby McNeill and'Iibby, was guest at the Jane get-together on the 17tfa and came through with stories about FiM%nf and Notre Dame. He knew Rockne per­sonally. 
Harry Lawrence presented the idea of writing to class members who are now in the armed forces. John Falkenhnrr was appointed chairman of the 
U.N.D. Night Committee. John F. ConnelL 
GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Jaaepk Dauldsen, '23. CIS Wataca Drive. Pns.; AI Salefe. 14. Sl«2 Sora. Sec. The newly elected officers got off to a flying 

. start with plans for the annual summer outing to be held sometime in August, and from all reports this promises to be a real affair. 
A few morsels of gossip picked up here and there: 
Charlie Morrow, who recently became a proud papa (it is a boy), says that he expects to be called to the Army in September. 
Jack Hennessy, '41, graduated from the Armored Force Officers' School at Fort Sill, Okla. with a commission as a second lieutenant. We have also heard that John Bannon is now at Camp Cooke, Calif., and has applied for officer's training. His brother, Pat Bannon. is in the Army Air Corps stationed at Keesler Field, Miss. 
A report on the four additions to the club of the Class of *42: Paal Tafel and Bemie Crimmins are expecting call for training in the Naval Re­serve in October. Bill Hormv is anticipating an early call to the Army in July. Lawrence Aubrey 
' announced his engagement to Miss Marie Bom­wasser of Louisville. She attended S t Mary-of-the Woods at Terre Haute, Ind. 
Just heard that Charlie SdiwartzfJ was married. June 20, in New Albany, Ind. 
Haven't heard from Carl Batterman recently, but he is in the Medical Corps of the Navy and we understand he is now located somewhere in California. Dr. Heniy *.man' was recently com­missioned as a captain in the Army and is await­ing word to report. 
Bin Keisert. Jr.. past preadent of the Notre Dame Club who qmnsored S t Vincent de Paul Sodety of S t Mary of Magdalen Parish, men­tioned that they are still working and getting along fine, lliis organization is to be commen<kd on its good work and club president, Joe Donald-am. urges all club members to support the Society and. better still, join up and keep the good work rolling. 
We just learned that Coraie Pfeiffer was elected president of the Audubon Conntry Club. 
BIBTHS DEPABTHENT: Even though it oc­curred last October, we don't believe the arrival of the Bin Beiaerta' third boy was ever announced. Also, the addition of a second girl, April 17 to the family of the writer has not been announced previously. A. g. sakh 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Jaacfh H. Arcu . "J5, K.R. 14. Box 7»-E, . '<«•: WOBaB H. Kmwp. 'i». 241 N. hlcn­dtaa St.. Sec -UBlvetaal Notre Daae Night Dinner was ob­

•errad at the Naval Anaory in Indianapolis mth 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 15 
more than 100 in attendance. Dean HeCartkr, whose presence was so enjoyed as onr gaest speak­er from the University last year, was again with us at our dinner this year. Pat Fidier. '36, was chairman of the meeting, and Jae MeNamara was toastmaster. 
Among the guests and speakers were Command­er R. H. G. Matthews, Commander G. R. Aker. Iiieut. L. F. Brozo, IJent. H. C. Sigtenhorst and liieut. L. G. Blanchard of the Navy: and Capt. Ralph E. Bolton of the Marines. Most of these men are well known on the Notre Dame campus in connection with naval activities. lieot. Brozo's son, now an ensign in the Navy, is a former stu­dent of N. D. 
The following were elected as officers for the coming year: Thomas J. Umphrey, '34, president: Walter J. Stdddreher, '22. vice-president: Walter 
W. Honppert. '25, secretary: Rokcrt B. Hoynahan. '36, treasoier. 
The members of the club may be seen any day on the golf courses and practice ranges getting into condition for our golf tournament, July 14. 
Luncheons are held regularly each Monday noon at the Board of Trade dining room. Walter W. Boappert 
NEW ORLEANS 
Charles E. De La Vercne. '2S. lOlS Maritime 
BMr., Prcs.; Emit L. Telfd. '31, Loyda Uni-
Tcnitr of the Soatfa. Sec 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated at the home of Patrick Batke, honorary president of the club and oldest living New Orleans alumnus ... . Present were Father O'ConneO. from Sacred Heart Church, the big parish in charge of the Holy Cross Fathers: President Charles de la Vergne and Mrs. de la Vergne. John Saxton, Anstin Boyle, Coast Guardsman Charlie Kennedy, Bolan Borfce, and one or two others.... the club actually got the N. D. Nie^t radio program, a feat it somehow was never able to perform before. 
In New Orleans recently were Lieut. LariT (Moon) MalUns '31. who before he entered the Navy was backfield coach at the Univeraty of Florida, and Eniisn ChadL Jaikwhich, former basketball coach at the University of Mississippi. Both are in the pby»cal education program of the Navy.... WiUism Bdun. (Bill) Dreaax, New Orleans attorney who has been very active in the Free French movement, is also getting a Navy commission, but details are lacking. 
EraU L. TeUcI 
NEW YORK CITY 
Jascph a Fiial. '». Hstd WssMsck. UT 
W.' 41id St.. Fiesbi Itestfcy J. Tttmtr. I*. 
Bstd WMdstMk. 127 W. Mid St.. See. 
On ICay IS about 30 club members and friends visited West Fdnt as guests of Colonel L. McB. "BiS" Jones, U. S. A. and the Athletic Association of the Academy. l o spite of the defeat of the Notre Dame track team by the Cadets and the damp weather, the trip was an enjoyable one for ' all who made it^ For many it was the first vi^t to the historic Plains. 
'Diere has been the usual curtailment of activi­ties 'due to the stuamer months, but Prexy Joe Friel passes the word that be will have an an­nouncement to make soon regarding the fall activ­ities particularly, the annual club Retreat, Father and Son Nig^t at the first fall meeting and the Reunion and Rally on Nov. 6 at the Hotd Commodore. 
It has been decided not to hold the Summer Outing this year but at a later date a Buffet Sapper may be held at the Woodstock for members and their friends. 
The Club mailing list is undergoing an "over­hauling" and it is the plan of the Board of Gov­ernors to have the list streamlined in time for the next mailing of the club's "Ahmmns."- At the next Board meeting consideration will be given to the dropping of the names of some on the list who have been totally inactive in club activities for many years. 
All club members are urged to advise'the chib secretary of any address dianges immwBatdy and such changes will be duly recorded. 
Many of our members are in various brandies of the armed forces of the United States and the number is rapidly increasing each day. Jae Fiid is anxious to complete a list of all members who are in active service and would appreciate the co­operation of all clubbers in making up the Ctob Honor Roll. 
On June 26 William Byrne, graduate of lona Prep, New Bochelle, was selected as the winner of the Eighth Annual Notre Dame Club of New York Scholarship Award at the Hotel Woodstock over a field of 20 candidates. All finalists for the award had exceptionally hi ^ academic records and it was only after several hours of deliberation on the part of the honorary selection committee head­ed by William A. Wabh. '96, that Mr. Byrne was finally chosen. Others on the honorary committee were: Daniel Higgins, member of N. T. City Board of Education, and president of C. Y. O.. 
E. V. Killeen, K.S.G., Henry Heimann, exeeotin director. National Credit Men's Association; Gof^ nelius Kelley, chairman of board..Anaconda Cop­per Co., Richard Reid. K.S.G., Laetare Medalist and editor, "N. Y. Catholic News": John A. Coleman, K.S.G., C. J. Devine: fire Conunissioner Patrick Walsh: John Cuneen, and S. P. Kil­coyne, assistant to the president of Brooklyn Col­lege. The officers and club members are deeply appreciative of the services rendered by these out­standing Catholic leaders and citizens. 
Dan O'Neil. '25, chairman of the Scholarship Fund, and his committeemen. Bill Heaia. '27; Jim Dwyer, '26; Jehnny Bams. '31, and Sic Sfauzka, '35, again contributed hours of thdr valuable time in directing all the preliminary details leading to the final selection of the win­ning candidate, and are entitled to take a well merited bow. 
The club was well represented at the annual National Track and Field Championsliips on June "20, with two members of the board of gov­ernors taking part in the games. Gnc Sice, '39, romped to his fifth straight national duunpionship in the 5,000-meter race and Jadk "William Tdl" Lavelle. '28, participated as the very efficient starter. 
Tim TeeBMy 
PHILADELPHIA 
Adrian J. Wadntmaa. 'SS, 515* f3ttw St, 
Pras.: CliSard E. PrsdeU. 12. (t7t Cheater 
Ave. Sec 
The Club closed the current season with a din­ner and informal meeting at Falumbo's with over 100 in attendance including several of the fellows from school. Those from the campus 'included: John O'Hars. Dan BaHey. Jack Bark, Jerry Sweeney. Charlie Lewis. Jahn HcKeea. Jae Sia­ons. Jim Fridc Jee Daly. Faal Tabad, Bill Css­tello. Ed Casey. Balph Carataai. Jaka Leahy and Bin O'ConndL 
The guest list had Capt. L. M. Stevens. U.SJI.. Lt. Comdr. J. L. Ttanney. U.S JT^.. Everett Callow of Warner BiDthen. Jules Schick of the Asso­ciated Press, Benjamin Eshdman and B. Franklin Eshelman, the adverting men and bosmi of Xd Bailey. Jim Spilhui also of that firm. Newbold Dunn, Ben Busch, Tony Saunters. Frad lUek. Lt. Leo Lynch. U.SJi.R. and Charles J. Coir. 
We swdled the meeting principally to do hoaor to Ban CasteDbd who, we are sorry to raport. Is leaving us to take up an important post with the Ctneinnati Chamber of CoasaKree. Wo take this oeeasiaB to mention that Bars kaa here win ho impuable as he is a tirdass worker with exedleat ideas and we hate to kas him. hot.i^a "goinK hone" to HU.and his bmilr; aad waTiia happy for him Oat way. Tb afaoir our appradatka wa had Dbeetor Ukm Nsassa present Bm wHfc a silTur plaqaa, Ftexy Ed BaOty also gave BUI a senn dmoHnr the occasion iriildi was i mliiiiad by an <tf those present. Jany Ash* cave an «xed­lent resoBw of tha dan iaidatiac how mmar hOb of laffinc ha wrote nnnstgned to "CkstdBai— Ondnnati.'' Daa Taaac howled as ovat wtOi his deaeriptioa of the activities at Coomeneeawat aad evadally his class lemiion. 
Another candidate at the Navy Yard for tha summer is Med Stodent Jifea KeDehcr. 
naa k Itrtfsaaa ia with Unde Sam at Fort Bragg, 
By the time that thia goes to press I'U be payine tolls for another member of the "firm" and brac­t^nc about "tha little woman" (except on oeea­dons like the one just mentioned.) 
See yoa at the beads if I can find anyone with "X" card. > CBCPradeU 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
Ckumm W. WtHbm, ti. Saalh Bad T*­
•Bik' Piaa.: Jassph W. NyAs% 11. Ca«t Ssc 
Ihe Lay Faculty dub of Notre Dame invited the BKmbaa of the St. Joaeph Valley Chib to participate in the faculty ootinc and golf day oil Jnna IS at Notre DamcL Several meaahers attended and are grateful to the faculty for their invitation. Leo HsCsHa acted as diaiiman for oar dub. 
President Bai#BC repotta that plans are under­way for our annual golf day. Committees win ha announced soon. 
Jae MyStaa 
ST. LOUIS , 
Valda Wiapc. ex.'2S. Hca Paddac Ca.. n u LaSaBc. Pica.: Dr. Fnada L. Bsaasdi. tS, Hiimail neati e BUg.. See. 
Bringjne CInh news up to date wa hava tha. fol­lowing to r^nt. Back on Kardi 8, we had oor annual Cnmmiintnn bieakbst. Mass was csiatratad in the di^iel at SC Louis Univcrdty. FUher Byan. SJ.. spiritual advisor of the club and ahsmoi &• icetw of St. Louis U.. waa the cddirant. Break­fast was ia tha Mdhoume Hotd across boas the Univodty. Jea McCayaa was toastmaster and introdoead Ta a "Ktty" GsiBaa. new head cnadi at Washington' University, and Aady Fflaey. hia assistuit. Bar. Calvert' Alexander, SJ „ of Ox Jesuit Missions oOiee in New York (Sty. also spoke bneOy. The prindpal speaker waa Bev. 
Whea Jack (kifia. 1», bft far'the OnceiaT Csailiati Schael sT <iw Msriaea. at ttnatieaw Va.. —Wi s e( tte St. Lsaia Chb catheied to de tta hasMT. Amiac tfeaaa pnaeat wcie. bft to right. Jack hlMilf Dr. Bert CsaghBa. Set. J. A. Daly af tha lacal Ibiiae leciaitiac a«ce. Tsto Shlilto. Dr. Viace Cenflb and Dr. Bsnde Cnwtay. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE UNITED STATES NAVY AT NOT 
The Naval R.O.T.C., in summer uniforms Group No. 1 (V-7 trainees) march to the Dining Halls for "chow." Hugh O'Donnell for all-around military an 
This used to be the Morrissey Hall Chapel. Now it's a Navy classroom. The Navy is now occupying Badin Hall, in addition to Lyons, Morrissey and How­ard. The third group of trainees, on the campus during July, numbers close to 1,300 men. All are in the V-7 classi­fication and working toward ensign's commissions. 

Group No. 2 (all commissioned officers) line up for Saturday mcmini 
)TRE DAME 
T^W(JJL» £ I 
Twenty-one alumni of the University, all of them commissioned oiTicers, returned to their Alma Mater for training at the Karal Training Station durin;; the six-week period ending July 1. Contin­ually on the jump, the group barely had time to pose for this picture after an evening meal. 
From left to right: First row, Lt. (jg) John J. Kellcy, '33, Eau Claire, Wis.; Ensign Earl J. Dean, 
•42, Cristobal, Canal Zone; Lt. (jg) Joseph P.. Hartnett, *29, Pelham, N.Y.; Lt. Harold F. Haynes, '23, Kansas City, Mo.; Ensign P. J. Lynch, Jr.,'33, Xew Castle, Ind.; Ensign James R- Kay, ex. M2, Kansas City. Mo. 
Second row: Lt. (jg) Leiand P. Kramer, '34, Des Moines. la.; Ensign Jerome P. Ledvina, '38, 
liforms, as medals are presented by Father ;ary and scholastic excellence. 
San Antonio, Tex.; Lt. (jg) Arthur B. Datt, '33, Akron, O.; Ensign John E. Costa, '42, Saginaw, Mich.; Ensign Girard E. Besanccny, *37, Colombas, O. 
Third row: Ensign Walter J. O'Brien. '35 River Forest, III.; Ensign Eugene S. Hutmacher, *42, Quincy, HI.; Ensign Ralph A. Gcrra. '41, Brook­lyn, X. Y.; Ensign John F. Gill, '33. Minot, N. D.; Ensign William P. Cass, *32, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Fourth row, Lt. (jg) Donald T. Ryan, *32, Qneens, X.Y.; Ensign Herman T. Griffin, *37, Tulsa, Okla.; Ensign Frank E. Metzgar. '42, Seattle, WaA.; Lt. 
(jg) John T. Murray, Jr., '33, Oak Park, IlL; and Ensign Charles H. Becker, *42. Tulsa, Okla. 

V-7 Trainee Robert Sterner (Group No. 3) was the first man to test the new cafeteria system in the west hall of the Dining Halls on July 6. 
ncming inspection. 
The N o t r e Dame Alumnus 
Charles M. O'Hara, SJ., regent of the School of Education* of St. Louis U. 
There was an excellent turn-out for the Mass and breakfast. The general intention for Mass and Communion was the welfare of our own Biihop O'Hftrm and all of the Notre Dame men in the service. A spiritual bouquet was sent to Bishop O'Hara. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated quietly this year at the University Club. "We spon­sored a stag party at club expense for all mem­bers. On the program was the March of Time movie entitled "Naval Aviation." The speaker of the evening was Lt. Fred Hall of the Naval Avia­tion Cadet Selection Board who sx>oke on "Notre Dame and the Kavy." The whole evening was seared to the theme of Universal Notre Dame Night on the camptis. From the Navy we had several tieutenants and ensigns as guests. 
On June 11th the Club held its election of offi­cers and a short meeting to lay plans for the annual picnic at Jehn Corley*8 farm in St. Louis. 
The new ofHoers are as follows: President, Valda "Dutch" Wmpe; \'ice-president, RoUa Dames; secretary, Francis L. Kennedy, M.D.; and treasurer, Jtny Arnold. Jerry was held over from last year and was not at the meeting to defend himself. Hie Board of Directors will be appointea by the president. 
The picnic will be held Sunday, July 19 and it is hoped to top the swell tarn-out last year which pushed hard at the 200 mark. The commit­tee has not been appointed at this writing. 
Here is s bit of late news—^the Football Trophy presented annually by the club to the outstanding high school team in greater St. Louis went thb year to East St. Louis High School. Because of the emergency no .formal ceremony was held. 
;*Hoch.­

LOS ANGELES 
-
 J«bB W. Gufceicy. "SS. 943 S. Detroit, Fres.; 


-
 MIAiri F. SkuuiMi, Jr^ ex. '39, 4311 Vic­«wte P«ifc DfiTC^ Sec 


Hie Club opened its new year with a Com­mnnion4)reakfast attended by the club in a.body on May 17. More than 50 members offered prayers for a United Nations* victory and for protection 
of Notre Dame men in the armed forces. The meeting featured short talks by Jascph Scott, Laetare Medalist, Francis Wallace. satlMr, and Hany W. Flanneiy, CBS commentator and author of the recently-published "Assignment to Berlin." Harry, who was Berlin corresix}ndent for CBS, gave interesting accounts of his experiences in Europe and his opinion of the various nspeets of the war. The meeting was ultimately turned into a round table discussion, with Flannery answering the members* questions. It was announced at the meeting that Csttbcrt Scott is now in the Army. Also that Tea F«j» '39, was leaving for officers' training school and that Jim Hanion, '38, was about to enter the Army Air Corps. Richard Chapman, '34, and his brother, John, ex. *35, were soon to leave for induction into the army. The Victory Mass and Breakfast meeting was of paramount imiiortance to President Caitenr, since his brother. Captain Father Richard E. Carberry, an amay chaplain, is a prisoner at Cor. regidor. Tom Carberry» ex. '33, another brother, attended the meeting in his navy uniform. 
NOTRE DAME FEDERATION 

Union of all Catholic activity stndoit groups on the Notre Dame campus was successfully completed with the initial meeting of the new "Notre Dame Federa­tion of Catholic Activities" organization on July 7. 
The Federation, as it will be known, is designed to aid member clubs and to act as a connecting link between Notre Dame students and the National Catholic Fed­eration of Catholic College students. Its president is Louis Kurtz, Des Moines, Iowa, and its moderator is Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., acting prefect of rdi­gion. Member clubs include the Speakers' Bureau, Servers' Club, Catholic Student Mission Crusade, Catholic Action, Stu­dent Commission for Decent literatnre, and Student Commission on the Litnigy. ­
FATHER ALEXIS GRANGER, CS.C 
Br C. C FitnetaU. 'M. Harana. Cuba 

In the April, 1942, ALTJMNTJS, just re­ceived I read the very interesting article by Kev. Arthur J. Hope, '20, about Fa­ther Alexis Granger, CS.C. 
This brought back some recollection of nearly 51 years. 
I went to Notre Dame in 1887, in the preparatory school and during 1888 and 1889, finished that, and started on my studies in civil engineering. Financial matters kept me out for a year and I wait back early in November, 1891. 
I went to confession to Father Granger in the chapel in the basement of the church. He gave me as a penance a decade or so of the rosary. 
He asked me if I had a rosary and I told him I had lost mine in a fire which consumed our home two months before. He immediately reached in his pocket and handed me, around the outside of the confessional, a rosary and told me to keep it with me, always. Whether he handed me his own rosary or not I do not know. 
I always obeyed his injunction to keep the rosary with me. I went through the Spanish War in Cuba, World War I in France, and many other tight situations where an engineer must go, but by day that rosary has been in the left front pocket of my trousers, and by night in the pocket of my pajamas or under my pillow (when I slept in a bed). 
Once, in going across the "Shoe Swamp" (Cienaga Zapata), in Cuba, making an estimate to build a railroad, I passed three days and two nights in the swamp and in places was mired in the mud so deep the muzzle of the auto­matic I carried in a shoulder holster, was in the mud. My pockets were all filled with mud, and, in cleaning them out, I took out my rosary and washed it in the water of the swamp. I had three Cuban colored . boys to carry the hammocks, food, etc., and they were much surprised to see an American take a rosary out of his pocket. 
The rosary has had only one broken linl^ in all that time, and I repaired it mysdf. The beads have worn down whether from rubbing together in my pocket, or from natural attrition, due to the fingers in passing the beads along, "God knows." 
Half a century is a long time to have one rosary. However, in remonbering in my prayers each day, those whom "we have loved long since and lost awhile," I include Father Granger. 
If you have Father Hope's address, please send him the copy of this letter, which I aldose, as it may be of some interest to him, who has written such a beavtifiil article about a saintly man. 
Banr W. Fhuwir. '23 (ttmndinc). Mithmr •! tkt Rcentlr-paUtahed "AKisnawnt to BMHa." was Oe akitf (pMker mt Oe Rccnt Vietoir Kan and Coauaaniaa Bnakfaat af tke Loa Aaseka CUk. WMi. U a at tiW'head takfe aic. left to richt. Fnuidi Wallace, '2S, an wrtatandinc aatkar in Ua •wm tUkt. aa< Jaae,k Seatt, hattmie Hedaliit. alio ipeaken, and Jahn W. Caifeenr, '35. pioidcnt mt the diA. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 19 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Hiss Hary Virginia Dwyer, sister of Thomas Dwyer, '34, and sister-in-law of George Vergara, '25, to Harzuon Fierce, '37, U. S. Army, Hawaii. 
Bliss Uinalouise Lehr and Charles Kelley, M.S., '41, Penns Grove, N. J. 
Miss Uary Jane Cagney and John J. Ward, *41, Barrington, 111. 
Marriages 
Miss Florence Elaine Simon and William V. Dielmann, Jr., *25, were married on July 4 in San Antonio, Texas. 
The marriage of Miss Winifred Fhelan, sister of Richard Phelan, '28, and Dr. Pan! Tobin, '28, took place on May 16 in Elgin, 111. 
Miss Ruth Dunnigan and Dr. Edward F. Molflar, ex. *31, -were married in Riverdale-on-Hudson, 
N. Y., on June 10. 
Miss Margaret Marie Sahlender and Clifford E. Prodehl, '32, were married on June 20 in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Jane Smith and Ensicn Hush F. Htzgerald* '34, were married on May 23 in New York City. 
The marriage of Miss Kathleen Connelly and Howard F. Jeffcrs, 'Z6, took place on April IS in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marianne LaClombe and Lieut. Joseph F. PrendergasU '36, were married recently In Mineral Wells, Texas. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Gallagher and Dr. Ridiard Lieaer, '37, took place on July 3 at Notre Dame. 
Miss Agnes Calahan and Otto E. Scherer, '38, were married on July 1 in Kingston, Pa. 
Miss Margaret Ellen Callanan and Dr. John R. Tobin, Jr., '38, were married on June 27 in Chi­cago. Dr. James Tobin, '29. brother of the bride­groom, was the best man and Dr. Paul Tobin, *28, another brother, was an usher. 
Han-bites^log stuff, this! 

Herewith and with all p<Hnp and ceremony, we eive you the marriage ot iEss Jean Louise Prid­more, one-time conductor of this column, and Dr. Robert J. Btyui. '38, both of South Bend, on June 13 in Our Lady Chapel, Notre Dame. Herbert L Weber, '38, was the best man and John J. Lechner, *37, was one of the ushers. Rev. James H. McDonald, C.S.C., '19, officiated. 
Jean was graduated from St. Mary's in 1941. and for almost a year was, as an employe of the Alumni Office and assodated offices, responsible for much of the material in the "Alumnus" ana "won many laurels far ability and efficiency." Bob was graduated with honors from the medical adiool at Western Reserve in early June and is now an interne in the Marine Hospital, Baltimore. Welcomed to Baltimore by Hal Williams, '38, the Bryans are "at hrane** in an apartment, just two blocks from the hospital. Drcq? in for dinner any time. 
Happy days! 

Miss Margaret McDowell and Ensign Geo^e F. Knobel, ex. '39. were married on June 5 in Indianapolis. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Grace Delaney to Ixmis A. Radekt, '39, took place on June 20 in Wichita Falls. Texas. 
Miss Helen Hunter and Licat. Kenneth J. "Fat" Goff, *40,, were married on May 10 in Aubom, 
N. Y. 
Miss Gertrude Sobecki and Bledard F. Rafabke, '40, were married on May 30 in South Bend. 
Miss Jayne Evelyn Bxmch and Lieut. Jahn Findar, '40, were married on June 15 at Fort Knox, Ky. 
The marriage of Miss Helen Francis Ridgely and Francis James Laaerman, *41, took place on Jtme 27 in Gary. Ind. 
Miss Katherine Margaret Eaton and Liemt. John C Richards, *4l, were married on May 12 in San Diego, Calif. 
The marriage of Bliss Blargaret Maloney ana Daniel J. Stack, '41. took place on June 13 In Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Biiss Rita Strominski and Harold C Graham, '41, took place on June 27 in South Bend. 
Miss Davida Craddock and XJemt. WiBiaai P. Marsh, Jr., '41, were married on Mardi 20 In Boise, Idaho. 
Miss Babette Morton and Frederick S. Bednun, '42„ were married on May 30 in South Bend. Gerald Orosz, '42. was the best man. 
Birth: 
A daughter. Nancy Elizabeth, was bom to Mr. and Hrs. J. WUIard Jones. '25. on June 18 in Dixon, 111. 
A son. Martin Joseph, was bom to Mr. anit Hrs. Thomas Green, '27, Conroe, Texas, on Jnne 21. 
Hr. and Urs. Leo R. Hdntyre. '28, Betbldem, Pa., are the parents of Nancy Ellen, bom April 10. 
A son, Martin Edward, was bom to Mr. and Urs. Georce Sdieaer. '28, May 20, in Chicago. 
Kathleen Ann was bom to Lieut, and Mn. Georce J. HeDonndl, '29. on Jnne 22 in Freehold. 
N. J. 
Mr. and Mrs. WiUiam H. HaaHI. '30, are the parents of a daughter, Mary Angela, bom May 23 in South Bend. 
A daughter, Mary Susanne. was bom on May 31 to Mr. and Hrs. Sam E. Bichard, ex. '30. Washington, D. C. 
Mr., and Hrs. Harold J. Takerty, '31, announce the birth of a son, Mrchael John, on July 2 in Logansport, Ind. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jaae* K. CoOiBS. '32. arc tiie parents of Mary June, bom June 4 in Dayton. O.. 
A son. Gerald Brian, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ed Kabki. '32. on June 16 in Chicago. 
A son. Bobert, Jr., was bom on May 13 to Mr. and Mrs. Batcrt Kappe, '32, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Benjawa CashMin, '33. are the parents of a son, bom Jane 16 in Sooth Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. ArOar Kappe, '33. annoonee the birth of Susan Frances on May 26 in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Notaan Oake. '34, Indianapolis, are the parents of Maureen Kathleen, bom Jane. 8. 
A son, Kevin Charles, was bom June II to Mr. and Hrs. Babert K. Kelley, '34. Laporte. Ind. 
Mr. and Mrs. Neitcrt F. Taaaaaiat, '35, are the parents of Hary Diane, bom April 18. 
A dau^ter, Joanne Kay, was bom on April 8 to Mr. and Hrs. Haaer StricUer, '36, Brooklyn. 
N. Y. 
Hr. and Hrs. Paul KnhaiH, ex. '37. are the par­ents of a dau^ter, bom Hay 25 in Sooth Bend. 
A son, Bruce John, was bom on June 11 to Hr. and Hrs. Jehn A. GUIespie. '37. Westfield. N. J. 
A.son, James Fk«derielc was bom to Hr. and Hrs. Easene F. Ling. '37, on July II in Los Angeles. 
Hr. and Hrs. Bayaand J. Heyer. '38. Chieagot are the parents of a daughter, bom June 22. 
Hr. and Hrs. Walter Daneaii, Jr.. '38. Ht. Vwnon. IlL. are the parents of a son bom re­cently. Walter Duncan, '12, LaSalle, IIL, u the proud grandfather. . 
Hr. and Hrs. Jafai Donnelly. '39. are the par­ents of a daughter, bom July 8 in Sooth Bend. 
Hr. and Hra. Edward Wutaekack, UJL. '40., announce the birfli of a daughter. Janet Susan. on May 21 in Sooth Bend. 
A son, Stephen John, was bom to Hr. and Mrs. Jaha W. Teow, '41. on Oct. 21, I94I. 
Deafhs 
Jaha S. Haaaer. I.T..B.. '90. LittB., '91. £ed in Chicago on July 1 and was buried there on July 3. Surviving are his wife, and two sons and a daughter. 
Dr. Dwicht C Ffeilliva. a physician in Chlawo for 47 yean, died there on June 15. He was born in South Bend and was a Notre Dame stodent in 1889-92. He served aa a captain with Base Hos­pital No. 120'in the World War 1. His wife sur­vives. 
Edward P. GaUasker. LL.B.. '01. of Philadel­phia, father of Bev. John D. Galla^er. C.S.C..' '33. and brother of Bev. Joseph'Galla^ier. C.S.C.. died on June 22 after a ioog illnesa. Hr. GaUag­her,aa attorn^, was a former ——•»-» at the Philaddphia City Coondl. Bom in behud. he was 80 yean old. Surviving are.hia wife, foor sons, two daniAten and two bathers. 
Lawnacc M. MeNerMy, IXJL. '0«, an attwncy 
of Elgin, 111., one of the most notable Notre Dame figures of the early 1900*s, died on June 1. Surviv­ing are his wife, a son, John L. McNerney, '34, and a daughter. 
Mr. McNerney was a monogram man in both football and baseball for three years at Notre Dame. He was captain of the 1906 baseball team and, after his graduation, became one of the bes: known semi-pro players in the Chicago area, play­ing with the Chicago Gunthers and other widely recognized teams. 
Always active in alumni affairs in the Aurora-Elgin section of northern Illinois, Mr. McNerney was a frequent visitor on the campus and took a particular interest in the Monogram Club and in the "Old Timers" football gatherings of recent years. 
Frank J. Roan, Maplewood, N. J., a student at Notre Dame in 1904-07, died on June 14 after an illness of t:^vo weeks. Sur\-iving are his wife and three sons, one of whom is ser\*ing in the Royal Canadian Air Force. 
Mr. Roan was second vice-president of the Com­mercial and Metropolitan Casualty Insurance Com­panies of the Loyalty Group. Until 1927 he was associated in various le^l capacities with the Travelers Insurance Company. 
Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, LL.D.. *11, 91 years old, who was Canada's minister of justice from 1901 to 1906 and chief justice of Canada from 1906 to 1918. died on June 17 in the city of Quebec. 
Vernon R. Helmen, LL,B.. '17, of South Bend, died on June 19 after an illness of two weeks from pneumonia. Mr. Helmen, an attorney, had practiced in South Bend since 1926. Previously, he was an agent for the federal internal revenue de­partment in Chicago and served in the first World War. In his earlier years he was a teacher in the South Bend public schools. 
Surviving are his wife, p. son and a daughter, his father, four brothers and t^vo sisters. 
Patrick H. Wageman, Ph.B. Com.. '23, of Houston, Texas, died recently, according to a clipping sent by Tommy Green. '27 of nearby Conroe. "Tex" was auditor for Henke and Pillot, Inc. of Houston. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter, his parents and a sister. 
Most Rev. Joseph SL Corrigan, rector of the Catholic University of America, who died on June 9 was one of the honored guests at the Commence­'ment of 1938 and received the honorary LLJ). 
degree. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to: James A. O'Donnell, *13, upon the death of his ^\-ife; John Skelly, '28. upon the death of his father; Edtrard J. Butler* '34. upon the death of bis father; Robert, '29, Raymond, '31, and Joseph Manix, '39, upon the death of their father; Paul Fergus, '33, upon the' death of his daughter; and James Lynch, '40, upon the death of his daughter. 
Personals 
» f I OOA ^-^ Burke. '38, SOI OeTOrO IOTU camp. New Orleans. La. Alninni Contributor, 1942-43 
•William H. Boland, Waveriy, Minn. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ltf#U*#7 Saint Joseph's Hinenl Batln. 
Moant Clemen^ ACcfa. 
Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 

Frederick B. Chute, Minneapolis; liouis P. Chute, Minneapolis; Francis H. Getchell, Chicago; Robert G. Kuerze, Cincinnati; Rev*. J. A. ilac-Namara, Mt. Clemens. 
I OAA i\A ^^^'^^ ^* Proctor, '04. Monger 
I 7|AI*U T Building, Elkhart, Ind. 
Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 

Joseph R. Carlton. Maplewood. N. J.: Vitus Jones, South Bend; John C. McCaffery, Chicago; Joseph John Meyers, Carroll, la.; John M. Quin­lan, Chicago. 
 E. Burke. C.S.C.. 1905-09 Rev. Thomas 
'07, Notre Dame, Ind. Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 Edwin D. Babbitt. Flaestaff, Ariz.: Earl F. 

Grubor. Frankfort, Ind.: Edward H. Kins. Joliet, 
111.; Maximilian J. St. Georse, Chicago. 
I A I A Reverend SL L, Moriarty. Saint Marj's I T I U Ctiilrch, Mentor, O. Alumni Contributor, 1942-13 Stephen H. Herr. Chatsworth, 111. 
m 
l Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank 
I Bide.. ChieaEO, lU. Alumni Contributor, 1942-43 John M. Wilson, New York City, 
 J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St., Pitts­

barKh, Fa. Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 Edward M. Bruce, Chicago: 'WiUiam J. Cook. Los Angeles. 
1912 R. 
IA I ^ P'ol R- Byrne, University Libtarr, I 7 I ^ Notre Dame. Ind. Alumni Contributor. 1942-43 
E. C. Schonlau. Syracuse. N. Y. 
IA I ^ Frank U. Bayes, 642 Third Art., I T I " I Chnla Vista, Calif. Alumni Contributor, 1942-43 George T. Hanlon. Jr.. Detroit; 
1915 James E. Sanford. 5341 Hagnolia Ave., Outage, HL Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 "William M. Carroll, Woodstock,' III.; R. M. 

Kaczmarek. Notre Dame: H. Daniel Bladden. 
Wyoming, Ohio; Norman H. Ranstead, WJlroette. 
111. 
IA I Z Grover Miifer. €10 Wisconsin Ave., I T I O Racine, Wis. 

Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 Frederick M. Frail. Wilmington, Del.; Frank E. Swift, Haddon Heights. N. J. 
From Grover Miller: 

I was rather shocked recently to hear that there are some 54 members of the class of 1915 who are now dead. This caused me to check up on our membership on the class of 191S and my records indicate that there were 112 members in our class, 12 are known to be dead, and 15 have not been heard of for some time. Such a record is rather startling and it certainly argues that those who are still alive should communicate with me more often and give me some news so that we might keep in close contact with each other. Fellows who have seen each other at Notre Dame in the past few years know the thrill they got at such a reunion. 
Since these personal contacts are rather difficult at this time, I wish you would all drop me a line telling about your family, your business, your war effort and anything else of interest. 
This information will be consolidated by me into a letter which j-ou will all receive in the Bear future. 
The meeting this fall at a football game appears to be quite an undertaking, but if there is enough interest shown, such a plan will be attempted. 
Louis P. "Pat" Harl, '16, veteran Paris news­paperman, was one of the Americans recently re­leased in the first exchange of United States dip­lomats and citizens in the present war. Pat along with 1" other press association, newspaper and radio correspondents, and several others had been interned in the Grand Hotel Jesche at Bad Nau­heim in Germany since hostilities between the United States and the Axis sent them into German custody. Thirteen of his interned fellow corre­spondents returned to the United States on June 1. but Pat decided at the last moment before sailing to try to join bis French wife and five children in unoccupied France. 
In 1917. with the entrance of the United States into'the war, Pat went to France with a medical unit. After the vmr, he returned to America to become the city-editor of the Owensboro. Ky. "Messenger." In 1922 he went to France to marry a young French girl whom he had met in Paris during the war. He got a position on the Paris edition of the New York "Herald-Tribune" and worked there for IS years. Since 1940 he had been a correspondent of the International News Service and also reported for other European and Amer­ican news agencies. 
3lal Elward, who resigned last February as Purdue University football coach, was sworn in recently as a lieutenant commander in the navy and reported for training at the Naval Academy at Annapolis. Mai also seri-ed in the navy during the last world war and until 1922, finishing as a HeutenanL 
Tom 0*Connor has succeeded Joe Fb'nn as grand knight of Rochester, N, Y.. Knights of Columbus. Tom and Joe were in high school together, at­tended Notre Dame together and were In the Army together. Tom is news editor of the "Cath­olic Courier" in Rochester and Joe is an archi­tect, in charge of the new St. Marj-'s Hospital. Rochester. 
 J. VoU. 206 E. Tatt St, South 

1917 B. 
Bend. Ind. Ahimni Contributors. 1942-43 John M. Cooney. Notre Dame; Daniel J. Quin­

lan, Ijowell, Mass. 
Letters to the following men were returned recently as unclaimed in connection with the 25th reunion of our class. This is only about 10 per cent of our membership and not bad for a quarter century, but the record could be a lot better. Will the "unclaimed" themselves or any one who knows their whereabouts please report to the Alumni Office or to the class secretary. The missing are: 
Emilio Aranas, LL.B.; Francis J. Carey, Ph.B., from Farmingham. &Iass.; Harold James CIear>\ M.E., from £scanaba. Mich.; Arthur James Coyle, B.S., a day dodger; Joseph E. Dorais, LL.B., who was in Chicago several years ago with one of the federal government agencies; George N. Halmes, hard luck Ducky from Weeping Water. Nebr., who broke his collar bone one year and a leg the next in football practice, or was it the same leg twice 1 
Francis M. KirkUnd, LL.B.. the great hurdler from Oregon, who was living in Evanston, 111., two or three years ago; Leo J. McGahrp, the blond engineer who was employed by a Chicago foundry about 10 years .ago: John Stanley Scott, E.E.; John Owen Spillane. LL.B., from Pennsyl­vania (good old "Hooker") a Lifer and hold-over from a class or two ahead of us. who lived in El Paso 10 years ago; Harold James Sticfcney. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
M.E.; Leonard J. Swift, M.E., from Dayton. O.: George F, Windoffer, LL.B., from Anderson, Ind. Danny Hilgartner 
John A. Lemmer, 901 Lake Shore Drive. 1918 Escanaba, Mich. Alamni Contributors, 1942-43 Carl F. Eigelsbach. Chicago; Richard V. Hyland. Long. Island City. N. Y.; Robert H. McAuliffe. Notre Dame; Arthur C. Kirby, Monroe, Mich. 
CUrence Bader, €30 Pierce St., Gary, 
Ind. 

1919 
Andy McDonough, PlainHeld, N. J., has been commissioned captain in the ITth Fero' Squadron of the Air Force Ferry Command and feels as much at home in an army uniform as he did in 1917. 
 B. Ward. 1012 Black Bldff.. Los 1920 Leo 
Anffeles. Calif. Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 Thomas H. Beacom. Winnetka. III. 
Edward P. 

Madigan. Oakland, Calif. 
Dillon Patterson, general agent for Northwest­ern National Life, has been elected president of the South Bend TJnder\vriters' Association. 
Sherwood Dixon, a lieutenant-colonel in the infantry, is now stationed at Ft. Jackson, S. C. 
Jim Brennan, general agent of t*e Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance company, is the new president of the Chicago Association of Life Undenvriters. 
|M« | Dan W. Duffy. 1600 Terminal Tower. lYZ I CleTeland. O. Alumni Contributors. 1942~43 Gerald J. Cleary. Escanaba. Mich.: Edmund J. Meagher, Rock Island. III.; Mark E. Zimmerer, Kokomo. Ind, 
Paul Sweeney, of Niagara Falls. N. Y., received a doctor of philosophy degree from the University of Buffalo on June 10. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe. 46 West Avenue, Hilton. 
N. Y. 
Aiomni Contributors, 1942-13 

William J. Murphy. Brooklyn: Edw. H. Pfdffer, Louisville; Daniel H. Young, Drexel Hill, Pa. 
From Kid Ashe: The Detroit area is to be commended for the loyalty of its 1922 men in showing attendance at our reunion this year. Only one Detroit area man failed to attend the reunion, and doubtless a very good reason kept him away. Those who carried Detroit's banner were: Jim Foren^ Hunk Ander­son. Jack Hifgins, and Walter Mathes. 
Some sort of medal should he struck for Cliarlie Hirscfabtthl who traveled all the way from Port­land. Ore. to be with his old buddies for a few-hours. 
Jim "Judge" Jones looks no different than he did in his undergraduate days except that the four-year-duty corduroy trousers and green flannel shirt were missing. 
Harold BIcKee and Pete Champion won the oratorical contest at the Indiana Club following the Alumni banquet. Pete's was the forceful tjrpe 
CLASS OF "17 HAS SILVER ANNIVERSARY REUNION 
Grove Miller, secretary of the *16 class, turned fied) the following, top row, left to right: John Coart. 'IC. Jerry Hilkr. Bill Moaney. 'IS. Crim oat to be the official '17 photosnpber when the Cassidy, Chncic Corcoran, Lawrence Welch. Jw O'Brian, Leon RasacU and Bed Graham. Bottom 
Gargan, Bemie Voll, the A-1 host of the week­nw : Dr. Leo O'Oonnell. Father Charles Doremas. 
2S-year canr gathered to celebrate at the May end; Eddie McOsker and Harry Kelly, Alamni 'OS, Leo VogeL Dr. Bob Kennedy, Paul Fogatty. 
Commencement. Throoch Grove's kindness we are able to present (all of '17 unless otherwise speci­Association president. Middle row: Walter Hc-George Shanahan and Dnke Biley. 
of oratory, whereas Harold used the calm, persua­»ve type of arguments. The judges are still pon­derine on whom they should select as permanent class orator. 
A Saturday morning tea in OlKe Clark's Michi­gan Avenue restaurant was one of the social high­lights of the 1922 convention. Jim Shaw poured. 
The reunion was a grand success despite cur­tailments caused by the war. Each man who was present contributed much to its success. Each is deserving of thanks for being present, and our regrets are extended to those who were unable to attend. 
Joe Faiiey is a captain in the Army Intelligence Serxace. Cyril Gsffney has been trying to sign up with the Navy. 
Jim Fonn of Detroit is in charge of Defense Housing for the state of Michigan. 
Eddie Gottry, who has been serving under Joe Tiemey in the New York State Division of the United States Employment Service* is now affil­iated with the United States Ci\'il Service in the OJP*k. Eddie is senior administrative assistant, and is located in the Empire State Building, New York aty. 
Our friend, Tom "Sarge" Owens, is in the plant layout division of Bendix Corp., South Bend. 
Bill CastelUni who has been handling public relations work in Philadelphia for several years, and is a real authority on the subject, has just left for his native city of Cincinnati to do public relations work for that municipality. Dan Younc tendered Bill a gala farewell party in Philadelphia whereat Eddie Gottty obliged with some piano playing extraordinary. 
Hurougfa the medium of postal questionnaires for the Commencement reunion some very interesting informatiozi has been obtained on the whereabouts and doings of 1922 men. The first instalment is as follows: 
Hunk Anderson—Crosse Point Farms, Mich.; 3 children; head line coach, Chicago Bears; also with 'Willeys Carbide Tool Co., Detroit. 
Kari Amdt—^Lincoln, Nebr.; associate professor of economics; University of Nebraska. 
Frederick Baamer—Jacksonville, Fla.; 2 child­ren ; Batson-Cook Construction Co., Naval Air Sta­tion, Jacksonville, Fla.: Grand fligh t of Father llafaer Council, E. of C. 
Ray Black—Connellsville, Pa.; 5 children; Meter Engineer; West Pcnn Power Co. Eddie Byrne—^Natchez, Miss.; 4 children; Byrne Furniture Co. Albert Camll—Chicago; Wirtz, Haynie and ESiroot, Inc. Pierre Champion—Cleveland (Shaker) Ohio; 4 children; President. Champion Rivet Co. 
Jthn Pu l CoUen^EImhurst, III.; 2 children; Adjudication Officer of Veterans Administration, Hines, 111. 
Eddie Duidon—Iron Mountain, Mich.; 3 child­ren; Attorney and Counsellor at Law. 
Wilfrid Dwycr—London, Ohio; >ace-president, Dwyer Bros.. Inc.; Betail Hardware and Furniture. 
Cyril Fites—Overland, Mo.; 3 children; lur brake development engineer; Wagner Electric Corp., SL Louis. 
Bev. B«b GalUsker—Van Wert, Ohio; Pastor, St. Mary's Church. Bob GaUoway—Los Angeles; one child; 20th Centory-Fox Film Corp. 
Lee Gi»f—Cleveland Heights, Ohio; 2 children; store manager. Standard Drug Co.; Cedar and F^airmoDnt Blvd. 
Jwkn HUkert—Phoenix, Ariz.; I^w and Ac­counting Office; dean of commerce. Tempe Uni­verdty, and instructor of law and accounting; past president, Arizona State Board of Accounts ancy; president of Arizona Society of Public Ac­countants. 
(T* Be Contintied) 

The Notre Dame Alum n us 
1923 Panl H. Castner, 1S7 Switk An^ New Canaan, Conn. Alomni Contribnton, 194Z-4S Panl J. Anderson, East Chicaso. Ind.: Dr. Pat­rick Charles Doran. Akron, O.: Harold F. Haynes, Kansas City, Mo.; Roger J. Kiley. Chlcaso: Henry 
J. Lauerman, Menominee, Blich.; John M. Hon­tasue, Chicaeo; John C, Norton, ChieaKo; Jesse 
N. Torres, New Rochelle, N. Y.; George J. Waek, Notre Dame. 
John Flynn, o£ Flynn and Bcnesh law oSiee in Cleveland, has been commissioned a captain in the Army Air Corps and is stationed at Jeff­erson Barracks, Mo. 
I AOi l '- ^- Baye*. 193 Tth Ave. Umm ISIS. I TZ T New York CiJy. AInmnI Contribnton, 1942-4S John J. James Jr., Milwaukee; John P. Me-" Goor^, Jr., Chicago; Joseph C. Byan, Notre Dame; Cornelius A. Bauh, Akron, O. 
Hany Holderman has iieen appointed to the position of rent examiner for the Sonth Bend area under the rent control program. He had been associated with the Colpaert Bealty Corpora­tion, South Bend, as the office manager in charge of rentals and sales and with the li<inidating trus­tees of the Building and Loan Assodation of South Bend. 
It's now Lieat.-CoL Raymond R. Brady of the Panama Canal Department at Quarry Htights. Ray's promotion from major was effective on June 6. He is the judge advocate of the Panama Coast Artillery Command and has been stationed on the Isthmus since last August. 
John P. Hurley, 2085 BnaUak Umt,1925 Tsledii.O. Alonini Contribnton, U42-43 Michael J. Adrian, Manila, F. L ; Leo J. Boet­tinger, Hamilton, O.; Peter P. Dupay, Baskins Ridge, N. J.: Joseph A. Hogan, Chicago; Bernard 
G. Kesting, Toledo; John F. Kilkenney, Pendleton. Ore.; Frank J. McCarthy, Indianapolis: Andrew 
W. HcMuIIen, Duloth, Minn.: Dr. David Mluilliy, Mxon. 111.: Daniel J. O'Ntal. Englewood, N. J.: Leo Pbwers, Chicago; Paul C. Romwder, Bates-ville, Ind.; Norbert Skelley, Salina, Kana.; John 
P. Traynor, New York City; Theodore A. Witz. Tucson, Ariz. 
James A. Bonan, 127 N. Dcartnm St , 
CUeiC*, m. 
1926 

j^f^tmn. Cbntribntors, 1942-43 William R. Barr, Chalmers, Ind.: Raymond W. Durst, Chicago; Victor F. Lemmer, Ironwood, Mich.: Daniel J. O'Neill, East Orange, N. J.; Joseph B. Shea, Detroit; Victor G. Yawman, Rochester, N. Y. Chick Goinon is a corporal in the Canadian army stationed in Debert, Nova Scotia. Before enlisting in the Canadian forces two years ago, he was employed in the production department of the New York "T^mes." All of wWeh information about the long-nnheard-of Chick came by way of this double play: Bishop Albers, Lanmng, Mich, to Bishop J. F. CHara. C.S.C to the Alumni Office. Bishop Albers had met Chick on a train and re­marked, "he seemed to be a very splendid type of Catholic and a real soldier." 
B. K. Wingcrter some weeks ago deserted New Jersey for the beauties of South Bend and a job at the local Bendix plant. Having succeeded at long last in renting a house, Wink expects to have his wife (Norfa Kavanaagh's ^ster) and his son with him in the Bend by late July. All of which will make the Wingerters and the Bulij i around-the-comer neighbors. 
Another Jerseyite, Dan O'NeiD, was a stopper-offer in the Bend in June, on his way to the annual Montana vacation, Lan7 Keefe appeared for an afternoon not long before, stopping fae­tvi-een Toledo and Chicago. Both Dan and iMxiy were received by Father John Lyn ^ '25. prefect of religion, who was recuperating from an Uhiess. 
Elsewhere in this issue yon ousjit to see noti­ficaUon that Prexy Frank Boa is now a Kenten-­ant commander in the on-water forces. 
From the leading postmaster of Iowa, W. W. SaOivan of Algona, came word not long ago. Wade was so busy keeping the mails going through that he couldn't get around for Commencement but expects to be on deck for the Michigan game next fall. 
R. B. Trout, Ironwood, Mich, in other words Vic Lemmer, attended a banquet recently in Chi­cago for contributors to the "In the Wake of the News" column of the Chicago "Tribune." Mr. Trout read one of his poetic contributions. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, SUtion WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 

Alomni Contribators, 1942-43 Lt. William J. Corbett, Jr., Glencoe. III.: Ger-vase A. Froelich, Newark, N. J.; Charles M. Walsh, East Liverpool, O. Johnny Greely, M.A., '27, is now a private in the Army Flying School at Maxwell Field, Colum­bus, Miss., giving top sergeants headaches by his ability to outmaneuver them in the field of psy­chology, according to a feature story in the "Training Center News," issued at the Held. John has had many courses in psychology and has had much experience in business as a sales and adver­tising manager and as a manager of employer­employe relations. 
Larry Groden, a special New York scout reports, is hard at it with a construction company in Trin­idad, or somewhere else in that general part of the globe. Reports coming back from him have been rigidly censored. 
Hogfaie HcCaffety just before his death had been made a lieutenant .colonel in the Army Air Corps, it is now revealed. An expert on weather conditions, he was considered to be, in that siie­cialty and otherwise, one of the leading men in the Corps. 
Hugh's funeral was held on June 17 in Chester, Pa., with a solemn pontifical military Mass cele­brated by Bidiop John F. O'Haia. Bishop O'Hara also preached the sermon and gave the last absolntioa. 
1928 
Loais F. Bacfcley, 4481 HacArthar Blvd., Washington, D. C. 
Ahimni Contiibntors, 1942-43 John D. Igoe. Gary, Ind.: Joseph M. O'Dowd, 

Independence, Mo.; David H. Smith, Chicago; 
John J. Wingerter, Montclair, N. J.; Bernard P. 
Wood, Santa Fe, N. M. From Loa Bacfcley: 
I want to apologize to our two guest writers this month, Dick Wcppner and Dr. Bemie Crow­ley, for holding thdr letters so long. I hope you will not mind this rationing of news. The past few months have been unusual in this respect. For the first time since I became your newsboy 14 years ago, have I been able to keep a few aces in the hole for the next column. I am giving you all 1 have on hand this time, so don't let this atuation cause yon to become too complacent when yoo receive my recinest for news for the next 
Dick Weppner came through in April with the ffdlowing fine letter with exclusive news on several of the fellows from whom we have not had a word in years. And now, without further ado, the report from our Cleveland correspondent: 
"Answering your request to guest write the '28 column t wrote to a few of tiie Iwys and received a number of interesting replies. The general le­anest seems to be for more information about everyone—that is, I gather that many of the men have lost contact with their former dose friends in our das* and everyone who wrote me expressed an idea that he would like to hear from so and •o, etc. It almost makes me want to suggest that aaneone start a diain letter among the '28 N. D. men and hope that it winds op aomevdierel Un­fortunately H appear* that the ones who don't write are those about whom most of us are seeldnff information and possibly a chain letter would not serve to soften hearts, or limber up their writing arms either. 
"Gerald Sheibkr says he is the proud parent o£ a school<age boy and two dansbters. He is at pres­ent in the home construction game with the Fos­toria Lumber Co. Bis address is 671 Uaple St., Fostoria. Ohio. Judgins by his stationery he is also a staunch worlcer in the local K. of G. 
"Chet Bice wrote me a fine letter from which I judge he has seen quite a few of the men in the past- several years. He can be reached at 2338 Berwick Blvd.. Columbus, O., and has been lined up with Bird & Son of Chicago, selling household materials thronc^out southern Ohio for the past five years. Among others he mentioned are Jack and Dan Cannon of Columbus. 
"I heard from AI Schnnrr and also Rnss Smith, both in Sandusky, Ohio. Rusa is city engineer there and it loolcs as though Al acts as his per­sonal adviser whenever he is not too busy working as a research and insulation engineer for the Binde & Dauch Paper Co. of that city. The Sandusky boys have a very close little unit of 
K. D. men and are quite enthusiastic about their little club. Al can be reached at_312 Lawrence St. Russ will accQit communications at the Office of City Engineer. Al has two Iwys, 8 and 7, and a daughter, 3, while Russ has a boy, 5, and a girl, 7. 
"Jim Cross wrote me from Massillon, Ohio, where he is local manager for the National Re­fining Co, Jim has been married since 1936 and has a girl three years old. Write to Jim in care of his business address. 
"Hy new address is 20510 West Lake Road, O. My dausliter is 10 and the boys are 8 and 7—and all of them are telling me how bald I am becom­ing. I am worldng with my dad and brother in the Ohio Hineral Spirits Company. Hy position is general office boy. salesman, chemist, research man, etc, and we sell solvents to the paint, var­nish, lacquer, rubber, metal degreasing and other types of industries, I am also interested in a busi­ness with Phil Picndercast. '29, for the recovery and reclaiming of used solvents, llie name of this company is Chemical Recovery Service, Inc. That seems to cover xay activities fairly well and I am going to close this with the requests of the various men the boys are all hoping to hear from. 
"Bnjs Smith wants to hear from John Ganghan, Clayton Sailer, Joe O'Dowd and Frank GacliordL 
"GciaM Sheibley wants to hear from Bob Stoep. Irr, Kit Canon, Frank Gnaniieri, John Fontana. Art Slavin, Dick Tiant and others." 
Thank you, IHck. I would like to taice you up on that chain letter idea. How about starting one now with the understanding it will be rettimed to me by Sept. 17 If the fellows do not have the address of the person to whom they want it sent, just have them transmit it to me and I will for­ward it accordingly. With a little cooperation, we should have plenty news for a fine column first thing in the falL 
Dr. Bemie Crowley guest-writes from 1139 Bellevue Ave., Ridmxond Heists , Mo., where he has been practicing dentistry for the past eight years. Bemie mentioned tliat Dr. William HcGnire, ex. '28, who is in the Navy, was at the Universal Notre Dame Night party in St. Louis. Bemie passed along the following newsy letters for the column. 
From Hank BKassnum, Massman Construction Co.. general contractors, Kansas City; 
"John Igoe who has been headquAtering in K.C. for the past few years, was called Inck to Penn­sylvania by his company the first of March, but 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
understand he plans to be located in Gary about the first of May, John's big tliriU la this aasiga­ment was that he would be doae to N. D. and Chicago—seems as thongb the boys never get over the thrill of eitlier. John came to K. C. a eon-firmed bachelor, but left with a wiCs and six weeks old daughter. 
"Rome Dngan is still in evidence and I had the pleasure with him of seeing that Pat Gaaar. who dropped in here one day from Clevdand. did not stray too far from the straiijit and narrow. 
"Joe O'Dowd is lost aroand here some place. Occasionally some one mentions Joe's name, but no one has been able to put his finger on him. Might not be a bad idea to put an ad in the lost columns. 
"Walter Kennedy. Jr. has been in your (fair) city of St. Louis for the past six months or so, engaged in some defense woric. 
"With my tribe of five at home, three of vri»m are in school, I am in a modi better position to give you up-to-the-minute news on parodiial schools, but 1 hope this will help." 
From John Seiter. Warrensbnrg. Mo.: 
"I'm still teaching Science here in the Wan«n>­burg High school, and enjosnng every minute of it. Between teaching and d<»ng a good lut of Boy Scout work as scoutmaster of one of -the three troops here in tliis town. I am kept pretty busy. However, I have not taicen to wearing shorts yet. And just in case any one might be interested. I am still single. 
"My brother. Edward, is now commissioner of welfare for Kansas City, with offices in the City Hall. Is married, of course, and has a young son. William Edward, now three years old." 
From Canon Pinkley, Portageville. Mo.: 
"Bdng down here in the Iwot bed of Missouri the '28ers whom I see are few and far between, so I don't have much of interest to contribote to your column. I was in Ksnsas (Sty one day last fall and Iiad the pleasure of a visit with Jaha Igoe and bis charming wife. John is [was] brandt manager of National Tube Company. He looked hale and hearty and still has that sense of humor that made him famous. 
"I saw Charley Homer a couple of weeks ago aa he was passing through this part of IDssoori. He is with Missouri Portland Cement Co. Charley has recently recovered from an appendectomy and. from his description. I judge that he had a v« y dose call. He said that a Notre Dame doctor and the new sulfa drags pulled him throagfa. 
"From all reports BUI Leahy's efforts are being rewarded with promotions at the Pet Milk Com­pany in Chicago. I tried to locate my old friends Jim Conmey and Joe Lenihan, '29, when I was in New York last October but failed to find them. However. I did have a visit with Bab Hewtaad, '25. who is doing a fine job in the traSie depart­ment of the Missouri Pacific Railroad in New York." 
Thank you, Dick, Bemie, Hank, Carroll and John, for your contributions which made it possible to wind up our fourteenth year of class reporting with another good column. 
Bemie Bird, who has been an active member of the Republican Speakers' Bureau for the past ten years, has been appointed Ma county aeeretaiy of the Buffalo. N. Y., Republican organisation. To assume this post Bemie has taken a leave of absence from his job as a county probation' officer. He is siso an instructor in criminology and child welfare at Canirius College, Buffalo, and has spoken and written widely in his profesaoaal fidd. 
He is the anthor of a series oci diild widfan published ia "Corrent Events" ,and of • tnatiaik "Idling YoDtfa About Crime." distrihntsJ bar the National ProbatioB Aseoeiation. 
Qr niMsrfcut, who served as dty eaatmOar ia Mfahawakai for three years, redgned that piidthM in Older to aeeept one as safety director at the MIdiawaka Bobber and Woolen Mannfaetnrins Co. 
Jaha BaWasaa. etecutive secretary to Governor Hurler of Conneetieiit. writes of the proanaaoee of several ataamt of the state. Walt Slailttaa. 'Zt. Bridgeport, is one of the reit admtniitrators of the state, Jaha Calasa. '28. Bridgepoct. is judge of the Coort of Camraon Pkss and Jtaa Mnphy, '22, Hartford, is judge of the Soperior Cbort. 
Baddty, the sec, modestly refrained tnm tdling yoa himseU that he is teadiing this SOB-mer a coarse in Labor ProUems in the Institata of Cktholie Social Studies at the Catholie Univer­dty. in addition to his regular goveminent woric in whidi he is really going places. WM diiaf' worry rcgar£ng the class is getting gss enoo^ to readi the Univ«sity, seven miles fraa his home, ia time for an 8 o'clock class. 
 P. Mdfaawn. Atlaney 

1929 
Jsenh 
araTs Ofica; laiisasislls, lai. 

Alamai Caatrihataia. IMX-tt . Reynold A. Deniger. Beaver Dam, Wia: JaBKS-
EL Digan, Loganvort. Ind.; JoaeiA.G. 03ryaa. 
HiattviOe. Kans.; Boeeo D. Peraae^ Chmhal j 
Fred J. Wagner. TUBn, O.; George CL Waa A 
Aurora, ID. 
I iriio has recdved a dvil service aivointmcnt as an associate eleetrical ewjneer. is now stationed at Camp Chaffee, Fort Sudth, Aifc. 
Bil Nea, trim is prindpal of the Mandaa. M. D.. Hi A sdiool. on the North Dskota state board of adueatiaa. pieddent of tlie North Dakota State Prindpals Aasodatioo and on the eoouaissioa on eoUeses and universities of the Nccth Central Assodatiao of Cdleges and Seoon(]ary Sdraolik is at Notre Dame this summer, .woridng with Father Caaafaghaa in a special investigatioa into Latia Aiaericaa rdaticms and teadiing at St. •ary'a. 
Jsha Nash haa redgned aa assistant to Mayer Kdiy at Chicago to become a captain in tiie army engineering corps.' 
una 
M. W. 

1990^ 'WwMmgtm.Jt. C. 
Alaand Caatribatsia. IMS-M Edward L. Arthur,New York City; Bernard D. 
Broeker. Bethldiem. Pa.; 'William E. Cassidy. 
New Orleans: Robert F. Eggeman. Fort Wayac; 
Ind.; CkrI C. Moore. Mishawaka, Ind.: Jaaaaa G. 
O'Keete. Jr.. Verona. N. J.; Baymond F. Tbttaa.­
C.S.C., Boiling Prairie. Ind. 
From Didt Daasgbac: As Elawr Laydea and Shakespeare tissd to ssy "The play is the thing," so do we get ri^t down to non-femus tacks by sa^ g that Bah Bdbaag.' 210 Hnmbolt Building, St. Louis, remanded to our appeal for' news, as follows: 
"Gcae KOlHca. my old room-aiate in neahaaa and Morrisaey Balli^ is now ia the Anay. He left St. Loois about a month awa. and we have not heard from him dnee that time. 
"Datdi Jehaaaa, the pole vaulting star, callad me from Jefferson Barracks two weeks ago to say that he is in the Army, and tiiat he was about to leave for Denver to take a qpadal comae in militaiT sdenee. Art Kaae of 'Jngri«' fsav was in St. Itouis the other day; Art is a utiBtiaS:IHC­nate^ ia diarge of advertising and pubUe rdatioaa for the Shreveport. La. "power houaa.' He ia dioiac very *dl then; is married aboot ii^bt years aad the praad father of two childroi. Bs reporta Oat Jack Newrcy has aioved bock to. Shrerspott bo a 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Dall&s. [See Note: We -were at the Wadiington-Youree Hotel in Shreveport in March, and are "we sorry that we didn't see more of the town!]. 
"Another surprise call about midnight on one cool evening came from a fast-talking individual, who sounded as though he might be an assistant to Bill Stem of NBC sports-announcing fame. He talked for about 15 minutes before I could get a word in cdfirewise, tellinff me a lot of gossip about Chicago and Illinois in general. He challenged me to identify him. After a number of pokes at me, he told me that he "n-as Spike McAdams. He was in southern Illinois on a political mission during the state campaign. Spike is practicing law in Chicago, and as a side-line activity he has referecd numerous headline boxing shows at the Chicago Stadium. 
"Pat HcLaacfalin, originally from Quincy, Ill-is still one of the outstanding securities salesmen in the St. Louis area. Pat is doing a eood busi­ness, is married and has a son about two years old. 
"As you probably read in the column of vital statistics some time ago. the Hellrungs now have a six months old heir. He is not quite old enou^ to caddy for his 'old man* this summer, but we are looking forward to the day when he vdU be able. [Sec Note: Bob, one can tell how they are progressing, by noting the time when they can 

•pin you on your hip-pockets for spending money; when that time comes, you will know that you are about to realize your expectations.] By the way, Dick, how is your go\f game? [Sec Note: Lousy!] And if it isn't too much trouble, please find out what Didt Bloom is shooting this year. Tell iMck that I'm looking forward to a return match for the game that we played here in St. Xiouis last summer." 
It is pleasant to hear from you again. Bob, and thanks for your news about the class. 
We turned the "radio beam" on Columbus, Ohio recently to see if Dan Cannon was bdiaving him­self, and as usual, Dan responds with a generous amount of class news, as follows: 
"Jia DodMn. has found his lovemate at last— he was married in late May. Bemie Conroy has completed his new home, and is the very proud daddy of a growing son 
"In Chicago about a month ago, I met Spike McAdams* who was running for the office of con­gressman-at-Iarge on the Democratic ticket.... BID Dorr and I made a retreat in Cleveland with the Clevdand Notre Dame Club. After the retreat we had one of those grand N. D. 'hull sessions,' with these toreadors present: Clayton E. Leroox. KaH HartcrstcdE, Phil Pendergast, Jerry Rcldy, Norm Grceney, T. £ . Carey and Robert Butler. 
**3mtk Keffer, from Los Angeles, is now located in Dayton, O. with the duPont Company. We had lunch together here in Columbus recently. Jack C^uuMin* brother of mine, has offered his services to Uncle Sam and expects to be commissioned in the U. S. Naval Reser\e soon. Jerry Parker is with the American Airlines. New York City, in enlarge of their display advertising nationally. Jerry has been doing a grand job there, but* will step into the Army as a commissioned officer be­fore the fall comes around. Hooley Smith has opened a sporting goods shop in Mt. Yemon, N.Y. Hooley is the coadi at Ht. St. Michael's, and he is also engaged in the top-soil business in West­chester County. 

**D«BC Daley visited Columbus for the American Bowling Congress. Doug is an ofHcer of the Junior Chamber of Commerce in Los Angeles, and as such, be did a marv^ous job in getting the Bowl­ing Ccmgress for Loe Angeles next year. Jack and I insited with fajm. his friends and Harold Lloyd for a week at the Dcshler Hotel. We had many laughs and loads of fun. 
"Frank Kersjcs, please ^vrite me. W«ne» F«ccl« 
I would like very much to hear from yon also. 
That was a grand picture of you in a recent copy 
of the 'Alumnus.* Jim Bradley, what has happened 
to you? Joe Ryan and Bill Brunakan often ask 
about you. Joe R>-an was operated on a month ago 
in order to mend a rupture. He's o.k. now. Joe 
is the treasurer of our N. D. Club of Central 
Ohio. Bnd Murphy, formerly of Brooklyn, of the 

class of '33, is our president, and is doing a bang­. up job. 
Judge McBride is now in the U. S. Army at Camp Shelby, Miss. The judge enlisted recently as a private; we all expect him to work into a higher position as the war effort gives recognition to the ability that we know he possesses. I under-~ stand that Ray Totten has entered the seminary at N. D. and I would like to express *my good wishes to him in his new work." 
Ihanks, Dan, and we extend our well wishes to brother Jack for success in his present a^imtions. 

Your secretary wishes to take a moment to muse on the scene. He observes that news from the class is now at a low ebb even though the past year has been fairly complete with class news, thanks to many "hearties" who have written to this column. The war has turned our attentions away from correspondence, it seems. Ordinarily an appeal for news in this fashion falls upon deaf ears, but we think the unusual circumstances re­sulting from the war should bestir the membership of the class toward a firmer interest in the news value of their class column. We urge the members of the class, thdr wives, and the Asters and mothers of those of the class who are in the service, to send us news of themseliies and theirs for the next issue of the "Alumnus." We wonder if some sort of humility keeps some from telling their story through this column of class notes; just write us a line and give us the facts, and accept our word of assurance that all are delighted to hear your story. Thanks for listenin*. 
1931 
Jaha Bcmn. U8 E. OUax An^ Smtik Bend. Ind. 
Akiauu Contijbnton, 1»42-M 
James J. GriSin, Chicago; William C. Karl, 

Washineton, D. C ; Bobert D. Kendall. Globe, 
Ariz.: Vernon J. Knox, Crystal Late, III.; Joseph 
A. Lauerman, Marinette, Wis.; Frank W. Leahy, Notre Dame: Dr. Edward S. Hnrphy, Dixon, IlL; Harold J. THiberty, Logansport, Ind. 
From John Berffan: 

Congratulations to Hardiie Sdiwartc on bdng named coach of the Stanford Universi^ football team, to Lt. Jack Saunders, on hie appointment to the ordnance divi^on of the Navy to Lt. Aastin Boyle, of the public relations department of the Army Air Corps, to Storekeeper. Wke Tcilen of the Navy, to Captain Clarence Denovan, intelli­gence division of the Army, and to all of the members of the class ^ho are privates and cor­porals in the greatest army in the world. Our old class prexy is serving in Washington; the former 
A.P. man is at Randolph Field, San Antonio. Texas; Hike is at the Naval base at Toledo and Captain Donovan is at Fort Knox, Ky. Chief Spe­cialist Frank Bntorac of the Navy is staticned on the campus for the present in the phyaeal education department of the Navy school. Fhmk likes his work, is married and hopes to return to Minnesota following the war. Jae Dwyer. ot Los Angeles, was drafted in May, as was fTiirfif Weiss, the old football manager. 
Sympathy of the class is extended to Corp. Ilai Bcnitz on the death of his father last nooth. Prof. William Benitz was certainly a revered fig­ure among the engineers and will be aordy i 
by those who knew him. Tim is in the finance department of the Air Corps. Tom Ashe, awaiting an early call to army duty, writes that he is in the throes of priority troubles as promotion man­ager of the Globe Oil Tools company of Los Nietos, Calif. Hie Dick O'Donnells* announce the birth of a daughter. Dick is political analyst of of the "Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph." 

Tom Cannon was renominated for prosecutor of Delaware county, Ind. Dr. Hud Goraszewski and Jadge Frank Kopinski are the nominees for cor­oner and justice of the peace, respectively, here in St. Joseph county. The election will be held tn November. Lou O'Shca is now residing on Ridge Road, Evanston, and is assistant sales manager for the Petrolagar Laboratories, with the entire country as his territory. Ton Conley, John Carroll football coach, has applied for a commission in the Navy. Dr. Jshn Gannon will also join the army medical corps soon. 
We wish to pledge full support of the class to the University centenary drive of the Alumni Association and state that the class will not be lax in its immediate action to be the &rst to ­subscribe one hundred percent. 
Jim Kearney, former law professor in the Uni­versity, is now in the law department of W. R. Grace A: Co., New York City, and is residing, with his wife, in Rutherford. N. J., where they bought a home. 
Emit Telfcl writes from New Orleans the un­happy news that he is confined to his bed—can't even get out for meals—^by a heart ailment. He found out about it on the morning of June. 19 at 6:30, just as he was about to board the train for a year's work on his doctor's degree (major in political science, minor in journalism) at North­western. 
"If I behave, the doctor promises tliat I'll be in shape to attend the regular session at North­western beginning in September," Emil says. He is in diarge of the journalism courses at Loyola Univer^ty, New Orleans, and is secretary of the local Notre Dame club. 
Emil says that Aastie Boyle left the A.F. in New Orleans to be vrith his mother who is ill but improving, in Whiting, Ind., their home. Now one report has Austie already an officer in the Army Air Corps, San Antonio, Texas (see Bergan, above); another report has him hoping to get an officer appointment there. Take your choice. 
More Telfel dope: Jack McCarthy, ex. '31, is with the Marines in San Diego and Charlie Ken­nedty* from Oklahoma, is with the Coast Guard in New Orleans. 
1932 i : I K. CaOina. (M BrMd Blvd.. Day-

Akmni Contributors, 1942-41 Raymond H. Geiger, Irvington, N. J.; Francis X, Graham, Chicago; Joseph S. Petritz, Notre 
Dame: Justin D. Sullivan, Newark. N. J. 
From Jim CaUins: 

Word has been received in Dayton that Jack BaaOtan is now stationed at Bhamalo, India, as production engineer with the Curtiss-Wrisdit Corp. He previously held a similar position with this company in Burma before the plant was bombed to destruction. His wife and their two daughters have returned to Mrs. Hamilton's former home at Moose Jaw. Saslc 
I received an aimoancement from Ed Kalski stating that his second son. CEerald Brian, was bom in Chicago on June 10. Ed is working for the U. S. Civil Service Commission in the Railway MiiH department. 
If anyone is having- trouble making his victory 

The Notre DameAlumnus 
garden behave, I would suggest that he get in touch with Frank Trienreikr who can he readied at Rt. 2, Detroit liskes. Hinn. Frank writes that he is working for the Northern Credit Company as appraiser for agricultural loans. He is married and has three sons. He hought a 40-acre farm last fall in order to get the boys out in the country and to raise live stock as a side line. 
Speaking of sons. Bill Waltz had one bom last Dec. 7, and still feels that the birthday of his Daniel William is a more, important reminder than the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Bill is with the Ohio Merchants Transfer Company in Hassillon. 
Carwin writes that he is the chief ac­countant for the Utah Construction Company and at present is located in Nantahala, N. C, on the job of erecting a hydro.electric plant for the Aluminum Company of America. He is married and has four boys. He still calls Jajara, Colo., home. Paol Haiphy is in Alamosa, Colo., manag­ing his own implement~ company. 
Bart 0*Hara is practicing law in Denver and is also the deputy public administrator. He is mar­ried and has one child. Jahnny Haraphries, also in Denver, is vrith the Travelers Insurance Go. He is married and has two children, 
RoM Parcell is practicing law throughout cen­tral Illinois having an office in Streator and one in Ottawa, and Bob Lee says he is getting more proficient in his story-telling every time he sees him. Bo1> also said that Jim Carmody was about to be drafted. Regarding the draft, it might be well ior the bachelors of the class to take note, among them being Clint Watson, Bill Bankardt. Ed DeBartolo, Kcrmit Giess. Harry ffilbarser, Geny Kkin. Herb Petzel. Bob Rohibach. Bill Ly­••u, Leo Scklarone and Peie Tn>li& Pete, however, states that he will be married soon, and Marty Toiteix expected to pay one of those visits to the Log Chapel shortly after rennion. 
Bill Webster writes that he will take all appli­cations for the IT. S. Navy being a second class yeoman at the Los Angeles recruiting oSice. His new address is 6S20 Iris Circle, Los Angeles. If you do not want to go that far to enlist, you might try Baden Powell who holds the same rank as Bill at the Houston, Texas, recruiting station. However, if you would rather ioin the Air Corps, come down to Dayton and Fll drive you out to Patterson Held. 
Stan Cxapaliki wrote me that Ernie Hediinger is with the Ceco Steel Products Company in Chi­cago, and that Le* Neuum is still selling Pack­ards (to whom?) in South Bend and was good enough to lend him one for the rennion week-end. He said that IH 4 Roney is with the Conover Hasc Corp. in New. York City, is married and has a daughter; Hank Tholen is with the Squibb Com­pany in South Bend. AI Brauaeur is with Metro­politan lafe Insurance company in Mishawaka. Jae Goaciarz and Henry Gajamaid each own and operate a drug store on the northwest side of Chicago. Stan is wondering if Jim Koons is still in El Paso. 
Our deepest sympathy is extended to Tim Bcnitz whose father, Pnf. William L. Bcnitz, died June 
1. Prof. Benitz almost personally managed the Knights of Columbus Building Fund for many years and built it into an outstanding achievement. 
Vinee Cavanangh is the attorney for the Con­tinental Casualty Company, and is living at 7949 Wood Street, Chicago. Le» Fieitas writes that he is the agent for three companies in Dallas, Texas. He is married and has one daughter. Joe Sinknle is working for the Ford Motor Company and living in Saline, Mich. He is married and has two diildren. 
Clay Adams is manager of the western office tor F^the News, Inc., and living in West Los Angeles. Jim Devlin has recently been transferred from Pittsburgh to Washington, Pa., by his employer. Personal Finance Co. Natkan Altaan is still living in South Bend and is associate inspector of naval materials at Bendix Aviation Corp. He and L M Ncaman have been partners for seven years in the above-mentioned Packard agency. Jelm Cas is sales manager of the Korich Chevrolet Garage of Lansford, Pa., as well as operating a service station in South Tamaqua. He writes that Ed Cannon died April 13, 1942. 
Len Donothne writes that he is in the retail lumber, coal and grain business as well as assorted jobs in Oxford. He is married and has two children. Frank Denny is in Seattle with the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency and was too busy deciding between Varga and Petty drawings to get back to reunion this year. He is married and has three children. Clayt Oaerr is in Okla­homa City with United Drug Co. Say Fax is still brewing the De Luxe and writes that "IKM is setting balder, Oelridi getting fatter, and Md­chione getting funnier." Ray is living in Elmhorst and says he has two children and one wife. 
Charley Hitzelberger is wholesale coal salesman for Whitely and Buckalew, Inc., in Utica, N. Y. He is married and writes that he has " one red* headed gal, aged 3%/' Jim Lewis shoald go to the head of the class, however, as he has five children. He is in the XT. S. Attorney's office in Chicago. Frank Harray is operating his own business of oil btirners and air ,conditiomns in Battle Creek, Hich. He is married and has two children, and states that he hopes priorities do not catch up with him. Joe Willis is principal of the Livingston Manor, N. Y., Central High school. 
I am still waiting for news from many of you fellows, so drop me a line. However, if yoa want to deliver it in person I will be glad to set them up as we welcomed our second dau^ter, BCary June, on June 4. 
Mardiie Schwartz, has been appointed head foot­ball coach at Stanford university. Harchie, who is the third head coach at Stanford within a few months, succeeds Head Coach Jim Lawson, who accepted a commission in the navy. 
Frank Obericoettcr has two sons and is now with the Eastman Kodak Company in Rodiester, 
N. Y., according to a recent note from him. BiO Jones is also employed at the Kodak plant. Fnwk Norton was married last January, Frank said. 
Jerry Conway reports from a French tropical island, plenty of game, fruit, fish and mosquitoes. He ran into Lt. Henry Meyers, who is stationed on the same island. They had roomed next to esdi other in Howard Hall. 
Ed Everett, who has been in the South Bend real estate btisiness for seven years, was recently appointed to the position 'of rent inspector for the South Bend area under the rent administrator. 
Bill Hnrray, formerly with the County Welfare Department in South Bend, has taken an attrac­tive new job as director of the Knights of. Columbus recreation center in Kankakee, III. 
1933 Kike WMdi^ TM4 BUS Ave, CUeacab m. Abimni Contribatora. 1M2-4S ' 
George E. Bolgcr, Detroit: John F. Breen, De­troit : Bernard P. Donnelly, Holland, Mich.: Ernest 
J. Gargaro, Ft. Leonard Wood. Mo.: John H. Lynch, Hamilton, O.: Claude L. Rossiter, Harting­ton, Nebr.: Dr. Arthur C. Totela. Newark, N. J. 
Larry Sexton has been elected grand knight of the Indianapolis Council of the Knights ot Columbus. 

Fhldtl Oifcacm is working for Banch and Lomb Co. in Bodiester. N. Y. He now baa two sons— Don and Tom. Lara Haaa, county adult probation oStcer, Sooth Bend, has 'oeen elected ehairman of the ease division section ot the Coondl of Sodal Agendes of St. Joseph county. BUI Flynm has been promoted to the poation of dty night editor of the "San Frandsco Examiner." 
%gk<^Jt Batert M. OUB. Attktie HieaclatliM. 
I T^4 Kati* Onm, Ui. 
'AhunU Caatiibaten. 1MX-4S 

Ralph F. Else. Aofanm, N. Y.: Vincent G. Me-Aloon. Notre Dame: John A. McSfaane, Chicago: Hn ^ J. Murphy. Pittsburgh; Harold D. Sporl, New Orleans. 
From Bab CaUll: BiU Ayiea was a recent and welcome viator to ' the campus and the Bend, with his wife and boy. BiU. being as old Corby Hall roomie ot your sec­retary, spent a lot of time in reminiscing and we took all of yon over the coals. Just in ease yoa didn't know. Bill is dty editor of the Binriiamton. 
N. Y. "Son," and has been these several years now. making him one of the youngest dty editors in the country, we think. 
Walt Dapiay. the old electrical en^^eer, pre­fect and Corby Ball mailman, dropped in Jane IT. Walt is with Detrut Edison in his dioaen fidd. tqierating in Port Huron, Mich. He reports a wife and two little girls. He says he sees BiO Eadwr once in a while, another engineer doing a fine job for Smith, Hendiman ft Grill, industrial ar­diiteets in Detroit. Bill is married and has one child. Walt was to be back in a few days to attend his section of the annual Laymen's Retreat here, whidi is split up geographically, on wedc­ends this year because of the new summer semes­ter and the Navy's use of several halls.. 
It seems odd to see so many students around this Ume of year. Doesn't lessen traffic on the golf coarse dther. bless 'em. Most of them will find out for the first time just how hot the Indiana winds blow in August. Most ot our class never will find oat. Nothing further to report, men. Ah well, summer heat.... 
Vie Aataae, district parole officer in Sooth Bend for the Indiana state department ot public welfare, has been named adult probation officer for St. Joseph county. 
Jahnny Maker, former publidty director for the Pittsfaurgji Pirates, professional football team, is now with the Medical Corps at Camp Barkeley, Texas. He is Writing for the "Pittsburgh Catholic," of whidi he was once sports editor, a series of artides, entitled "It's Different in the Army," which convey some ot his impressions of how things are done and not done in the army. 
Dkk.Hegaa, MJ>., who had built up a very fine practice in Chicago, after finishing at Loyola Med there, has been in the medical divirion of the Navy since July, 1941, and is assigned to the U. S. 
9. Kanawaha. Lieat. (jg) Hogan can now be reached "somewhere at sea." 
Stewart Oabera, has a son, Pat. and is employed with the Binghampton gas works, Binghampton,. 
N. Y., according to recent scouting information. 
"The Trenton News,'.' weekly newspaper, prop­erty of the Notre Dame Waliieu. ot Trenton, 
N. J„ (Hewarri. '34: Jae, '36: Jim. '37 et al), has been suspended for. the duration because so many of its staff have entered the service ot their coon-try. According to the announcement ot the sus­pension, Howard expects to enlist in the Array and Joe will be in the Navy. Jim is with the F.BJ. 
1935 FnnklTB C. Hodireiter, 340 Boiedale Ave., St. LooU, Mo. 
Afaimni Contribntors, 1942-43 
Joseph G. Beck. Indianapolis; Frank I. Broeraan, Cincinnati; Faul C. DeWald, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Frands I*. Koppelbergcn Bay City, Mich.; Paul 
J. Haholchic, Simpson, Pa.; John J. McGrath. Sedalia, Mo.: Eugene J. O'Reilly, Newport, R. I.: Claude W. Tourek. Riverside, HI.; Charles T. Williamsen, Elmhurst. N. Y. 
From Hoch: 
It has been a long while since your reporter sent alon&r any news. This lapse has been due chiefly to the £act that there has been nothing to write about. A card now and then but seldom if ever a letter from the crowd. We have been reading with interest the few entries that came direct to the Alumni Office, but you will have to agree that the '35 column looks pretty sick next to the others. We are putting down the happenings and mail of the last four months. Count 'em up and weep—^then DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT! 
Way back in February w-e had a surprise phone call from CUS Dudley one Sunday afternoon. He was in town with his &mily en route to Officer's Training School at Fort Benjamin Harrison (out­mde Indianapolis). Since Cliff was just passing through St. Louis, his family drove up from Faducah to spend the 24 hour lay-over ^vith him. He looked swell—^the Army has really made him rueged. A few days after his visit we received a card from him wtih the following message: '"Diis is what I always thought the Army would be like —a great improvement over the last eight months, but lots more work." You will remember that, down in Texas, Cliff was putting his accounting into practical use. Let us hear about your latest escapades. Cliff! 
Just about the middle of March we received an announcement from Bob Lee. Bob and his wife did their part for national defense in "bringing into the harbor" Robert E. Lee, in. Bob weighed in at 8 pounds, 2 ounces, Feb. 27, 8:50 p.m. at William H. Backus Hospital in Norwich, Conn. Our best. Bob H! 
Then on March 21 we had a card postmarked St. Louis from Lo«Ie Faatsch. Fautchie called us to task for not being in when he called. He and his charming wife were on their way to Mexico. We really appreciated your thoughtfulness, Louie, and regret this belated acknowledgement. So the Iowa lawyers are taking late winter vacations in Mexico now? How about coming this way again and letting us know about your arrival ? We noted that your card was from our Mayfair Hotel—did you enjoy the Haafbrau—you should have! 
Toward the end of Mardi Sig SInszka sent us a letter in which he traced the happenings of leveral of the gang. We appreciated your letter, Sig, as we always do. At the time of his writing Sig was reviewing books on the Polish and Slav­onic themes and people. To quote him: "If you look on page 7 of the 'New York Herald-Tribune "Boolra" • and on page 13 of the 'New York Times' Book Section, you will see one line of my 'valued' book opinion sandwiched among the various ppinions cited in the country about Davies' book, 'Mission to Moscow'." 
But to sive you Sig in toto: "A few words about some of the *35 fellows: Jim BlacBevitt is with the Army Reserve, an officer at Ft. Benning. Ga. A group of 18 N.D.ers got together at his home for a sendoff. 
"Jorian Bamw e is still with an advertising outfit in tiie Radio City Towers, and is an air raid warden in the bailiwick of little Neck. Queens. Lonur bland. At the New York meetings we no longier aee many of the others. We are neetins ms usoal, but fewer in numbers. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"My fortunes may bring me ta Chicago's school system, althou^ there is a spot open in war manufacturing with the F.LL. (Query?) Out here the school is keeping me occupied with teaching for the small part, and extra-curricular activities for the most part. The newspax»er [The "Chief­tain" of Sewannaka Hifih School, for which Sig is advisor] won the National Pacemaker award in the National Scholastic Critical Survey, and first place in the Columbia awards. In the jmst I was an understudy to these honors, but today the paper is completely under my supervinon. Of course, it is the students* paper, and the 'stopid* advisor has nothing to suggest or alter for the better." 
Lots of luck. Sig—and let us hear from you again soon. For your contribution all our thanks. 
About the middle of April a card came along from Paul Gnamieri. Says Paul: "I presume tiiat you are in 3A and therefore hope that this card reaches you. I was inducted on April 3 {Good Friday) at Camp Perry, Ohio, and shipped on to Fort Knox. I am with the Surgical Hoq>ital bere which is an unattached mobile unit. My address is 6th Surgical Hospital, Fort Knox, & . If you should come to T>arby' stop by. Saw Ed Badurt today. He is with a tractor and implement company." 
Glad to hear from you, Paul—^but we have one important question—how did you get with the medical corps? Or shouldn't we ask? 
One last note and this on a less happy vein— Tom Proctor wrote late in May that, their second son died shortly after birth. We are sorry, Ibm. Tom says that private law practice is not rushing during the war. He is thinking of something in the war effort. 
And that is that, gentlemen! What are we going to do about it? * 
 Mann, SI E. SSth St, Apt. 2. 1936 John 
New York City. 
Akunni Contribatora, 1M^41 William A. Backley. Oakville, Conn.; lliomas B. 
Dorris. Bronx, N. Y.; Kobert F. Ervin. Notre 
Dame: Dr. Kenneth F. Laws, Lafayette, Ind.; 'Wil­
liam J. Schmnbl, Michigan City, Ind. 
From John Horan: 
Hiis is the last column for your class secretaiy, for \dth this issue we turn over the secretaryship to Joe Blansfidd. The demands of the Navy and the uncertainty as to where we will be stationed require that someone with a more or less per­manent address take over the job of class secre­tary. 
Joe Ecnerously offered to accept the secretary­ship. Joe has been well known to *36ers since oor freshmen days and is well equipped to knit the scattered members of the class into a nnified eroup. We know that you will give Joe all tiie support you gave to us, and that means plenty of letters, cards and news. 
After six years of knocldng out this column and reading and answering your letters, we have got to feel pretty close to most of you. We've enjoyed writing this monthly piece, hearing from so many of you regularly and putting over oor five-year-reunion. 
After six years we note a bit of nostalgia as we roll a sheet of paper into our typewriter to grind out this last column. Our thanks to the many grand fellows v^o made the job easier by those welcome letters and words of encoomsenient. Give Joe all the help he needs. He guarantees a lively, interesting column. 
Your new aeeretary wrote in fn m station WJAR, Providence, R. I. to say, amoac other 
things: "I went into New York early in June on a flying Inwness trip and 1 hoped tiiat I might have time to look you up hot tempus fugited so diuK busted fast that I left the village before I had time to see you. 
"I did manage to get over to Bishop O'Hara'a office to say hello to him and to Father Stegman, his secretary. He doesn't seem to have changed mmii beyond looking tired from the strain of his work. He's still a great gent. 
"By the time you receive this, Mrs. U. and I expect to have the third pair of little feet patter­ing around the floor. We firmly expect tius addi­tion to be a boy. We've got to get at least one candidate for a halfback post. 
"I am now a gentleman of the press in addition to my duties with WJAB. I write a sports column for the Providence 'Visitor.' It is an interesting little side-line that I find interesting. Maybe I should have been a candidate for your 'Scholastic' staff back in our school days. 
''Joluiiy Desmond dropped me a note the other day to say that he is going into Officer's Training Sdiool in the near fntnre. Ed Crotty, '37, is busy at Fravidenee College where he is director of physical education. He has about 600 lads to get into shape. Hagh Dercre is at Holy Cross, as you know, and looks to have a good season." 
Many thanks for your fine letter, Joe. 
Dr. Fred GahricI, who has been a resident in pathology at Jefferson Medical College, Fhiladel­phia, wrote early in June to say that he might shortly receive a commission in the armed forces. Fred, who has done a grand job of sending along news about the pre-meds of *36, also added: "My brother, Lou, was married April 21 to Miss Martha Coleman of Sayre, Fa., at that place. Naturally, I was best man. He is still attached to the Medical Corp of the 3rd Cavalry but cur­rently is stationed at Carlisle Barracks, Fa. Since he has been in the service, following his intern­ship at Bobert Packer Hospital, Sayre, he has been stationed at Fort Meyer, Va. and Fort Ogle­thorpe, Ga., in addition to Carlisle. 
"Dr. Jahn Bndy is resident at the Bradford, Pa. Hospital. In January he was married to a nurse at that hospital. John was recently in Pitts­bur g to take the Navy physical examination and looks for his commission as a lieutenant in the Medical Corp any day now. 
"Dr. John Ftands Shaffer of Pittsburgh has been on active duty with the Army since last July. At present he is stationed at Camp Gordon, Ga." Lost week Mrs. Shaffer presented him with tbnr £rst4>ora, a husky son. I have heard from reliable sources that Shaffer. Jr., already has been enrolled at N. D. in the class of '64 and is considered a probable member of Walter Camp's All-American touch-football squad. 
"Columbia, Pa. is soon to lose Dr. Jimmy Qiinn to the Army. At least that is the latest I have heard of Jim, plus the news that he recently took unto himself a bride. For the p::st year he has been practicing in Lancaster, Pa., with a very prominent surgeon. 
"News of other members of our class comes to me largely throu^ the 'Alumnus.' However, I did learn from another source that Dr. Leo Hof­
•ehneUer is interning at St. Mary's Hospital, Rodiester, N. Y. and that Dr. John Harphy of Massachusetts is either an intern or a resident at a Washington, D. C. hospital. 
"The March issue of the 'Alumnus* carried an item that answered something I have long wanted to know—the whereabouts of Freddy Amdngton, an old Iiyons ^ U fourth-floorer. I would like to know the same about Doctors Ed Donochw, Fred 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 27 
Cox. Don HcKar. and also Haik Flnoediario. (A few letters are in order, sentlemen). 
"A '35er asked sboat Joe Morton of that class. He graduated from Jefferson in 1939, served a two-Tear internship at this hospital and was then appointed resident in sorsery. Joe left here a couple of weeks ago for Camp Bowie. Texas, as a lieutenant with the Jefferson Unit (Base Hospital 38)." 
Thanks very much for your letter, Fred. A few more of those each issue would certainly he wel« come. The information about Joe Morton calls to mind that our last letter of the month came from pTt. Bad CMdman who is with the Medical Carp at that camp. Bud reported that he had com­pleted his preliminary training and was assigned to the camp's hospital. 
We have seen around town Shcrb Herrick, who is on duty with the Mavy, and Jim O'DonneD, '37, who is practicing law at 44 IrVhitdiall St. Lt. Jim McDevitt, '35, recently stopped by when in Mew York with the new and charming Mrs, M. Jim has been transferred to a new regiment being formed in the deep south. Mac recently completed a stiff re-fresher course and was ail set to take personal charge o£ the "second front." Ken Hortarity and Cy Stroker. both of '37, continue with the shipping firm of Morton Lilly & Co. 
And that winds up the colunm for this month. We sign off here with a wish that our successor always has a drawer-full of letters from you '36ers when he sits down to write future columns. Okay, Joe, its your baby from here on. Best of luck. 

Father Ed Hammer, son of Justice Ernest L. Hammer. '04, and Mrs. Hammer, and nephew of Thoma* A. Hammer, '06, was ordained to the priesthood on May 30 in St. Patrick's Cathedral, Mew York City, by Archbishop Spellman. His first solemn Mass was in the Church of St. Philip Meri, New York City, on May 31. Father Harty Stegman, C.S.C., '32, ordained this spring to be secretary to Bisluip O'Hara, represented the Uni­versity at the first Mass. 
 Foley, 910 Hawthorne Road. 1937 Faol 
GrOMe Polnte, Mich. 
Akmni Contribaton, 1942-43 

Edward J. Dahill, Taunton, Mass.; Harold J. Dmecker, Kokomo, Ind.; J<dm J. Levicki, I,ake­wood, O.; Harrison J. Pierce, Hawaii; Corp. Charles E. Roggenstein, Fort McCIellan, Ala.; William J. Sharp, Jr., Miami, Fla.; William L. Struck, Dayton, O. 
From Paul Foley: 
It was such a red-hot reunion that your corre­spondent was days and days getting the story shaped aroond. In tact we completely mined one. deadline on the theory that every other "five-ycot" class would fill it with nostalgic mooninss and '37 deserved better play. So here's the stoiy; 

Maturally it was raining. Matorally there was some confusion about the location of the '37 headquarters room on the campos. We were not sopping, but well on the way, when we located a chaste, little rendezvous in one of the Enj^neering Building's classrooms. It was an experience though, since 30 per cent of our class had never before been inside the Engineering Building. 
We were off to a very slow start, numerically. By noon Saturday Howie Hardock. Jeny Cbcyi. Larry Danbom and two friends smuggled in from South Bend constituted the bulk of the reunion. But things perked up all day and by the time Larry brought in the six or seventh case we bad it outnumbered. 

From then on it was high jinks. BUt Tmacy blew in, Geriy Bcsanceney, Frank Fox. Faal Shecdy, Ed Gannon, Hank Racn and many, many others whose names will jiop up later, were all gathered round in solemn session when Seaman (or Yeoman) Joe Qninn, in full regalia of the 
U. S. Mavy, was piped in. Joe at that time was stationed at the Naval Armory in Toledo, Ohio, being subjected to further training and is defin­itely the man to watch in this man's seafaring war. 
On land our forces were under'the command . of Sergeant "Killer" Baike. and if you ever saw a sergeant, it was brother Burke. If he's not a captain by now the Army has lost all respsct for a tough chin. 
In swinging into this story we may, because of the very nature of the show, miss some of the characters lurking in the wings, but we'll try to get all the boys in somewhere. 
Hrst (and only) formal event of the occasion was dinner in the renovated dining halt You'd blush to see the actual white table cloths and gallery of oil portraits which are now standard equipment. There were also speeches. 
Immediately in sight were such of the faithftil as: Bill Bailey, now interning in Detroit; Fnak Hnisking. busy as a bee in Brooklyn; CkarKo Meyers, practicing law in Chicago, which should be a likely spot for a little law; Haiiy KaeUer, doing ad copy for O'Brien paint in South Bend. 
Such a list, of course, could go on and on, but the real story lies in the "remember-when" eon­versations and the comparison of status and waist lines. You'd recognize all the boys. g>»rdy hasn't lost any more hair; CUK Browa hasn't picked up any weight; Joe Draecker ia still a wag; John Levicki is still in tip-top shape; Jade mbaaaa is stiU casual; Ttaa Cm»im is sfill ihaip; as a tadc—in abort life goes on. 
Host of tbe haja have a badly on wUdh to report—and on whldi to dote It was aa axetp­tioBalbr prosperans lookiag gathering toob ia case you're interested. It would seem that our liovs are on top for the moaent in this worldly wrestle. 
But. anyway, w« got throutdi dinner with a minimna of confusirai and then threw tike thins up for grabs. 
The Oliver Hdtd turned over the entertwnianit in its "Bmerald Boom" to the '37 boys' at the vocal insisteaee of J. Paal Shtc^y aiid an iinHsa tified diaraeter from Pewamo, IGcfa., whose eoB­nectioa with the whole proceeding was bi^ily nebulous. 
(N3 . At this point all wives should understand that we're just kidding). 
Before yon could say "TTniveraity Centenary" sotnebody prujueed Pete Jahata who in tura pn^ duced very, very, boogie-woogie piano raosie for the edification of many amateur vocalists indod­ins Sheedy. Csadsa, Clacys and many, many others. Hovering in the wings,' unwilling to bs associated directly with such goings on were Msd Joyce. Harry Kaehlsr. Art KslMlIaad. Lsa HMsy. Geny Davcy and others. 
Somewhere about this point the "professioaal" entertainers of the Oliver Management made a feeble oidreling movement, which ended in root with our boys still hoUing the field and giving the mierophone a terrific pounding. 
It was a gala occasion. 

While our own personal observation must be limited to this one operation we have'it-on good authority (Key Barna) titat tindlar campaigns were in progress at many pmnts. 
Xn fact, on Sunday we heard from no less a critic than Stsvc Kasa that no suds reunkm had ever before be^i' beard of in Indiana. Steve inddentally arrived at the Oliver about 1hnrada> nit^t and was greeting new arrivals up to train time Sunday. 
But for more serious reports on some of Uie boys: Bab Lsdacr vras with us for dinner. Bob is at Horean Seminary as a member of H<dy Crass dmsregation; He was strikingly handsome in derieal robes and added a good deal of "toneT' to the event. 
Others on deck whose names we cant rcfneauier typing in the above paragraphs were Jska Brw­sdl. still in South Bend and full of smiles: Ait HeCauB. interning at St. Joaeph Hospital in FVnt Wayne; FkaA Fox, still newqnpering and many, many others. 
liaataaaala '43; Liaat. Jaka 

These are some of the Notre Dame men who, witlun the paat few aoatha, hae* 
ia tha Army Air Corps after training at Tarious fields. Lef* *» "«•»*. *^^ " • •'»••*• Wayaa J. VCmaor. 
, '41, aaa Lieat. 

S. Power*, '41; Ueut Richard J. Carroll, '37; Lient. WUUam G. Blnm. ax. '42; Limt. Joha M. NoUa. Arthar J. ChadwicI^ '36. 
Not present tut certainly the subject of a sreat deal of questioning conversation was PU] Bandi, still tusslinsr with ill health at an Illinois sanitarium. Informal as ev^r the boys circulated the back cf an abandoned "exam blue book" during dinner for fast messages and signatures to Phil. It was duly forwarded and Phil whipped back a thank-you letter to all the gang in which he predicts an early victory for himself. We hold with the idea. 
Naturally many, many of the boys reiwrted inability to attend because of a government job in uniform. Among these were: Bob Groffan in the Army Air Corps and stationed in the deep South when last reported; Georre Bonfield, Head­quarters Squadron, Army Air Corps at Jefferson Barracks, Ko.; Corp Charles Rogrcenstein at Fort McClellan, Ala.; John McAnliffct, ensign in the Navy; Jalui Coyle, at Officers* Itaining School for the Air Corps at Miami Beach; Ray HcGrath. at Gftmp Callan. Calif.; Charlie Lcibin, sergeant at peraonnd office for Camp Growder. Mo.; Bill 

-
 "Butch" Brvno, chief petty officer at Navy Pier in Chicago; Sergeant Ben Sdierer at Fort Lewis in Olympia. Wash.; Ensign Marty Bums on the 

V.
 S. S. Phoenix about whom many heroic stories have been heard; Ensign Vincent Hartnett who was with the Navy department in Washington; Jehn 0*Heni, yeoman, 2nd class, at Norfolk. Va. 



Still going with the list: Larry O'Donnell at Officers' Training Sdiool, Fort Benning, Ga.; Bill Myers at Fort Knox. Ky.: Jim Levi in the Army Air Corps at Sheppard Field. Texas; Chaiiie Lemons, finance department, Salinas Army Air Base. Salinas. Calif. (I knew one of our boys would niggle up close to the strong box.) 
Joe Bonan in the Army at Fort Logan. Colo., Bill Sharp, ensign in the Navy and at sea (so were we. Bill) ; Corp. Joe "Yussell" Moore, at­tached to ^)ecial Troops in San Francisco when' we last heard; Harry Weakley, who gives us a full rounded record by becoming a private in the Marine Corps (equivalent to about a second lieu­tenant in anything else, we understand) ; Jim Murphy at Fort Warren, Wyo.; Ben Johnston, in the Army Air Corps at Brooks Field. San Antonio. 
Ensign John J. Fitzpatrick of U.S.S. Cincinnati on active duty at sea; Matt Bmccoli, sergeant at Camp Upton, L. I.; Hrst Lieutenant Jack Fitz­patridc. Army Air Corps at Philadelphia; Bill Graham, at Officers* Traininj; School. Camp Davis. North Carolina; last, but obviously not least lieat. Ridiard J. "Hnky" Carroll of the Army Air Corps last at Luke Field, Phoenix. Arii. 
So that gives you a rough idea of why you can't have cuffs on your pants. 
Before we forget, ibe FBI was well represented too in the affable person of Jim Waldron, who is now a full fledged operative working in Wash­ington. His boss. J. Edgar, made the Commence­ment address and Jim was on deck to cheer. He seemed to be in top shape—in fact both of them did. 
In case you didn't know it. and to cheer you a bit, there are several of our boys either ordained or en route. We remember discussing Basil GiDc^ie and Joe English in previous is­sues. Others are: Bcv. Clement Funke, C.S.C as^stant pastor of St. Igna^us the Martyr Church at Austin, Texas; Rer. Thomas Payton, C.S.C.. assistant at Sacred "Heart Church. New Orleans; RcT. Thoaas Carran, CS.C.» also at Austin, Tex., but doing missionary work among the Negroei; Enter Carran Frands Kdly, O.FJf., expecting to be ordained a fVanciscan this fall at Washington. 
That about winds up this shot. We know some 
of the highlights of the reunion are missing—hut 
they were there. What we lacked in numerical 
strength we made up in zest and fervor. In short, 
"Yah shouda been there.* 
BIsMrice Talchinsfcy, of South Bend, has been sworn in as deputy prosecuting attorney of St. Joseph County. 
Harry Pierce writes from somewhere in the Hawaiian Islands: 
**Bhikop 0*Hara is doing a £ne idb—he just sent us a fine priest from Indianapolis. We have been extremely fortunate as far as our religioos practice is concerned, bdng able to get to Ha u and Communion nearly e\-ery morning. 
"Would you please <- make mention of my en­gagement to Miss Mary Virginia Dwyer of New Sochelle, N. Y. I was lucky enougji to have her say 'Yes* before leaving the mainland. 1 ^ fiancee is a sister of TOM Dwycr. '34, and sister-in-law of Ckorge Vergara, *25. So you see we'll have a real Notre Dame family." 
Harry expressed, his regrets at not bang able to attend the five-year reunion. 
1938 
Harold A. WiOiams, 3«S East Lake Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
Alnrani ContribBlors. 1942-43 
Hugh J. Armbruster. Detroit; lit. Joa^h A. Callahan. Dilworth, N. C : Louis A. Fox. Fort Wayne. Ind: James W. Myers, Van Wert, O.; Donald H. Smith. South Bend. 
From Hal WOBams: 
We have only two letters and a few notes for this column so we will pound out what we have in a hurry and step aside to give space to the younger boys. 
Here's a letter from Ensign Teas MalHgaai­"Just a few weeks ago I was practically living in your badcyard, and now I'm so far away froax the east that it would even take Charlie CaDahaH a few days to make the trip. In January I was sent to the Naval Academy at Annajwiis for a four-months training course in en^neering, of all things! That gives yoa an idea of how badly the Navy needs engineers. We were commissioned early in May and now I am stationed at the Naval Section Base here in Seattle. 
"While at the Academy I saw Ch«dc ScanadL He was just getting ready to leave Fort Bragg to enter the Officers* Training Sdiool at Fort Sill. Okla. Scott Reardon called me up a few times from Washington, but we were never able to get together. He is apparently connected with the F. B. I., although I never got it exactly straight because the cq>erator always seemed to ask for another nickel just as be was about fo. tell me; of course, we never had the nickd. [Secretary's note: Since when has the nickel rate gone in for a telephone call from Annapolis *to Washington, about 24 miles even as the telephcme company strings its lines?] 
"I had a very enjoyable visit -vrith Father O'Donnell when he came to the Academy as a member of the Visitor's Committee. 
"While home for a few days in Cleveland, I got some news on a few of the boys: ChaiBe Macalttso is teaching school in the day and hdng taught at night, preparing to enter the Navy V-7 class shortly; Bob Hackman is an officer,in the Blarines and is at a signal school in the Ekst; Tom Rini is married; and Harry Fax is in the Army. 
"Stopped at Chicago en route to Seattle and saw prospering John Boarfce and his wife. He tells n e that Jack Langren will get his MJ[). from Penn­sylvania one of these days, and is then going to the Mayo Clinic for his interne work. That's i«ally something. JtAin also reports that Ed Wrape and Bab Leonard.are keeping duPont up to par. That just about completes the news to date. I'm sorry I didn't get to see you while at Annapolis, but they kept us tied down and pretty busy." 
Thanks, Tom, for_the dandy letter. Tom's ad­dress, incidentally, is 2636 37th St . West. Seattle, Wash. 
And then there is the note from Sergeant Eddie Mattia^b'' who is still stationed at College Station, Texas. Eddie writes that re recently helped stage an army demonstration in the Cotton Bowl at Dallas, performing alone before 40,000 people. Nice going, Eddie, and congratulations on your promotion. 
And that's all the maiL 
I forgot to mention in the previous column that Bex Weaver, now a sergeant in the Army, is sta­tioned in Washington. I see him occasionally. While attending a ship launching recently I saw George Bssit , a key worker at the yard, bossing a crowd of men around. At a party the other night I bumped into Bill McGrath, '42, and a few ni^t s before met Anthany Danadio^ *42, of Balti­more, at a concert. And last Saturday I met Joe FBtfp", *42, of Baltimore, walking down the street, lonesome as the devil for the campus. 
Ihafs all except that I would like to have a postcard or letter from a lot of the boys who haven't been heard from for a long time. 
Ed McCahe of Lock Haven. Pa., received his doctor's degree at the University of Pennsylvania recently and is serving his internship in the Philadelphia General Hospital. Ed has applied for a commis^n in the armed forces. Maybe has re­ceived it by now. 
John Scott, has been promoted to captain in the Marines. John, formerly the director of school attendance in South Bend, became a first lieuten­ant in April after being called into service as a second lieutenant on Feb. 20, 1941. He is (was) stationed at the Marine Barracks, Naval Air Sta­tion, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Tom Haghcs recently was awarded his M.D. at Ohio State University. 
1939 
Vinecat DtOmner. tSit Jartoc, Kan-MS City, Ho. 
Alamni Contribaton. 194^4S 
Hiehael L. Blessiae, Cartis, Nebr.:' William E. Carroll, Detroit; Kobert H. Cuthbertson, Flint, Hich.: Philip G. Fritz,-Grand Rapids, Hich.; John C. Gallagher, Chicago; Thomas J. Kalman, PenropoUs, Pa.; Ernest F. Kling, Baltimore; James G. HeGoldrielc. Philadelphia; David T. Keskill. Koslindale. Mass.; William L. Hedmont, Newport. B. I.; Robert A. Sheppard, Jr., Rich­mond, Va.: Alfred C. Volberding, Livingston, Hont. 
From Vince DcCoancy: 
Dan Cupid seems to have been almost as active. since last press time as General Hershey. Fred Eweae Siik, JoMph James Bematd. and Joseph Fraacia Ryan are no longer among the ranks of the laddly unbossed who only have to worry about the army. 
We are wondering if Miss Jean Langford is the same Jean Fred told ns about last Christmas; after following this young nan's career for the past six or seven years it is a relief to feel that he is at last caged. If Mrs. Sisk wants details, drope us a note. And Joe Ryan and Ellen Dresch­er, two names we hare associated since the Sopho­more' Cotillion in 1936, seemed to have stepped over the cliff back in Buffalo. Jim Bernard and Barbara Ann Shafer in Los Angeles. Hie .Sisks' hy the way were "jined" in Ann Arbor. Mich. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Aroimd the first of Jane came a very long, very typical letter from Jade SvIUvan (Honk). Hed. Det 34 AR. Camp. Cooke; Calif. About three of these per month and the life of a secretary would be one of comparative ease. We are goins to put in Honk's entire letter and hope that it will en­courage a few umilar epistles from some of onr till now mnted classmates. Says Honk: 
"Well. Vince, I'm finally getting around to this letter which I intended to get to you a long time ago. Being a buck private in the Army offers a lot more time than money, so I might be able to give you a little informatiou'for your column. 
"At Chapel last Sunday I met Dick VmlMcfer. We had a very enjoyable evening at the Service Club talking over N. D. and all our old buddies. It was also a treat to get away from the mess hall. Re wait throng basic training with Jcctcr Md>niald at a camp in Haryland.. Dick should be called to the air corps soon. He said Andy Felker is now working in his dad's wooden overcoat plant in Wisconsin. Dick Bergen is also stationed here. The Quartermaster Corps has him driving a truck. 
"I left St. Louis and the Western Cartridge Co. early in Uarch for the Army. Jack Griffin sold my car for me, then volunteered for the Harines. He is in Ofticer Candidates Class there now. He said when he looks at his body he sees rigor mortis setting in before the body is actually dead. He said every week is "get Griffin" week. Before joining, he was collection manager for a finance company. He has been doing nicely and seems to be right now. It is quite a trick they say to go right from civilian life into an officer school. I've seen Jack constantly snce leaving school as Tve been working in St. Louis sin<% that time. I was credit manager for Commercial Credit Co. until last summer at which time I was sent to produc­tion school for three months by Western Cartridge. After finishing school I worked for three months in their plant then resigned to go into the Army. 
"Last fall my girl. Jack and I went to the Southern Cal game. We saw a lot of the fellows there from our class. Vince Dollard showed up in Navy uniform. He is one of Gene Tunney's phy ed men. Rod Trousdale was then a traveling sales­man for Chab Hall's dad's hardware company. He was doing very nicely, but like most of us he is probably a buck private now. Trousdale was very active in the romance field, with at least three proposals a week. Jim HcGoldrick gave a party that Saturday night which was a party to end parties. At least 200 people came in before the evening was over. Griffin acted as doorman. He managed to keep out at least 100 people. 
"Jim HcGoIdridc has gained quite a reputation as a party giver. He and Al Mooney developed into a couple of male Elsa Haxwells. A lot of confusion was caused by the hotel giving us a room with an entrance - that was formerly used as a John. Consequently you can see the problems we faced. 
"Last summer George Prentice and I went to to N. D. together and laid around the campus for a couple of days just taking the rest cure. We had a suite, all the luxuries (anything seems like a luxury now that isn't K.P.) and none of the student worries. We waited on several tables and got our meals gratis. I'd give a lot to be doing just that right now. 
"About two years ago I saw George Reeves* ex. '39 in Paducah, Ky. He was then working for his dad in a bank. He is much too healthy to be passed up by a recruiting officer. 
*'Aboat the first of March I bumped into Bill Pieiawnt in the Statler. He is travelling for the 
E. of C. dmng boy guidance work. He married a girl he met while working up at Sault Ste, Harie. 
Jim Tantcy has a similar kind of job now. Wtai he travelled through St. Lous I -was not abit to see him. 
•*Doe Carey was in St. Louis for s week to have an eye operation. 
**Hike Shannon is in Los Angeles as a wmxden doing civilian defense work. He is also adfiniT liquor for an outfit in L. A. He was in the anto business until recently, but_ so were a lot of other people. I was glad to hear Hike was doias so nicely now after being confined so hmg* Ha in­vited me down for a week-end—rirfit now that is uppermost in my mind. 
**I read the last issue of 'Alumnus' wlule on 

K.P. It made me ache to get back to N. D. lik* I never felt it before. There sure is no dodbt in my mind the four years we spent at N. D, were the happiesft I'll ever see." 
Then around the middle of June two letters in one day broke a drought that was bringing dost to the XTeCbursey mailbox, unsullied since the first of the month. One from ICke HcGaire, out of Mishawaka. The other from that globe trotter and etc., John Walsh. Both welcome surprises. Mike first. He said that this letter was two years late, which fact is forgiven, conditioned on another message before another two years. Hike after graduation returned for a year of graduate work in chemistry with his brother, Joe, both receiving M.S. degrees in the summer of IMO. During the year Mike was prefect in Howard. 
But. according to Mike. "Since getting my de­gree I have been worldng in the clothing and coated fabrics laboratory of the TT. S. Robber Company in Mishawaka. A few years ago there were only a couple of N. D. men in the plant. btit now we are well represented. Included among the N. D. alumni are my immediate superior Dale Love!. '36, Chuck 0«hin8ki» '40. Jehn WaMim, Harold Graham, both '41. Hanid Gachel, FbJ>., '39, etc. Ray Winey, '39. was with us until Hardi and is now serving with the U. S. Harines. Last I heard of him he was awaiting orders to go abroad, destination unknown. I believe ^>u know that Dennis Dincen (how are the twins?) and Jack Doyle are with the U. S. Rubber in Passaic. 
N. J. I hear from Tom Torrison* who used to live down in your end of St; Ed's, until he got married last year and since then haven't heard from him. At that time he was with the Air Corps at Brooks Held. Texas. Jack Fawcrs, *41. is in Florida with the Air Corps flying bombers. He told me in a recent letter that he was con­templating marriage to a Texas Belle." 
Mike's address is 543 Uncotnway West, Hlsh­awaka. Ind. 
John Walsh provided the biggest surprise of three years before the mast (or is it behind the eight ball?) with his very pleasant letter. We had occasional glimpses of John; first as uA insurance salesman, then as a buck private in the artillery, but now the clouds of speculation are rent asunder under a Chicago dateline. JtAn says: 
"(Censored). More tangible than words, perhaps, will be a few sidelights on the old friends Pve met in the year and a half I've been bobbins around in the Army. 
"First of course, are Bart OTooIe and Jacft Benedict, the lads with whom I started the long trek. We had a hilarious year in the artillery and then, with the advent of war. each went to that branch of the service that held the most Individual appeal. 
"Jack stayed in artillery and is now about to graduate from the Officer's School at Fort Sill, Okla. Bart transferred to the tanks, he loves those babies, and will soon get his gold bar at F<vt Knox, Eor. Ole Walsh transferred to the Air Corps as a Flying C^det and then, because he is Iridi and the adtooh are rather faik wi 
90-da7 fnioash. Tes, 90 days! 
"F» dwrins off Wcdnoday for the SootfalaBd asd hopt to bo seat to Haxw^ FSdd. Hx forloa^ was ipcnt in an orgy of handball and—other things. I also earoUed at Chicago U. as a 'student -at-larse' and lived up to the name noUy. 
"In town I ran acioea my old nde-kick Ji a 

' GanwB. who is married and a proud papa. He is on a eonstmction job at Great Lakes and his next stop, he says, may be Trinidad or points west. 
"A few days ago I dropped down to N. D. and coold not keep from feeling mdandwly over the absence of the 'old familiar faces.* I recovered in time to observe, as befits an alumnus, *thcT certainly are a young looldng^ bundu Now in my day.. >.' (But of course we were there ri^ t after Repeal). 
"Then there was Bill Beeley who instigated this letter [Thanks, Boss]. Into the caf for coffee and was •»*««»H to see Ted Frcricka. It was a draw. X called him Ned and he tagged me Bill. 
"Have had a thinly-spaced correspondence with good old Hcna Bamberg (he doesnt answ^ my letters) i Bab Schraeder (I don't answer his); Beh Tascsa (he comes through ^t h a manuieript twice a year); Teai Shcchan (he buys only poet­eards); and Larry Sattan (we use telepathy). 
"Herm is married, but I understand, is in the army. Bob Schroeder is a Flying Ckdet. Bob Telseon is dtnng himself proud for Beil^ T u Co. Tom Shedian is a flying cadet. 
"I ran across Larry Sotten once in Nashville where he tried to pass his quarterly physical for the Air Corps. Seems as though every month the doctors give him three days to live. Yob can imagine how busy he is living. Meanwhile he's with fisher Aircraft in.Memphis. He tried to join every branch of the service but the Pigeon Corps and probably would try that if he didn't moK. I wouldn't be surprised if he started his own army. 
"In all of my months in the Army, only once did I get in the way of an H.P. It was on a rain-soaked lane in Louisiana. The hour was late. And the BtP. turned out to be Tad Harvey, *42. He gave me a lift back to camp. Horale: Be FbUte to ­Underclassmen." 
And so, good luck till next time. And let's hear more from more of you before then. 
i Converse is at Lowry Field, Denver, where he just received his commission as armament officer. 
PanI IMky is a member of the Army Air Ck>rps gang whidi is doing Its bit in the Australian battle. 
LicMt. Jehn Staifcie writes from (^ger field. Spokane, Wash., where he was assigned after completing a course at the Army and Navy Engine Training Sdiool in Hartford, Conn. 
"... . I am in charge of the engineering fnnc­
- tion.... It is a lot of fun. but it is also hard work. I haven't had a day off yet and I doubt that X shall have for some time to come.** 
Ed HcOenaatt is (was) stationed at Tomer Fidd. Albany. Ga., studying navigation for the Army Air Corps. Tisa Bradley* Ed says, is a first lieutenant in the Air Corps at Haxwdl Field. Ala. 
licat. FUl North Is on the press staff in the headquarters of General HacArthur in Australia. nUI had worked on the Nashville "Tennesseean" and on the Fort Worth "Star-Telegram" befcm he entered the Army in 1940 and became as^stant 
public relations officer at San Antonio. 
1940 Babert G. Smnfocd. 3934 N. BfaT7l&nd ATC., HOwftiikee, Wis. 
Alqinwi Cfmtribnton, 1942<43 

Edward C. Aubrey, I<o\usviUe; John B. Brod­berser, Ijovrry Field, Colo.; Anthony F. Gentle, Waterloo, la.; Pvt. George T- Horn, Columbia, Pa.; John D. Julian, Detroit; Paul G. Lenihan, Nutley, N. J.; Ferdinand E. Miholich, Jr., South Bend; Philip F. Rosbnch, Sylacanga, Ala.; Floyd 
J. Sullivan, Newton, Wis. 
From Bob Sanford: There is one letter for you this month, from Joe Gcrwe. Joe says: 
"... . I took my vacation a few weeks ago and saw several of our *40 Eang and heard about still more. My first stop was Davenport, la. and one of the first I ran onto was Tom McCarthy and his wife, l^me enough for only a few short words and then along my way. Tom was 100 per cent and sent his greetings to one and all. My next stop was Richmond, 111., where I visited at John Gordon's home. John is stationed at Great Lakes in the district personnel office. Has been in since last November and is very much in favor of the rest of us joining him. He managed to get home every night while I was there and also had lime for a week-end in Chicago. He showed me as much of Great I^akes as a layman is permitted to see, and one of the sights was Jack McBIahon. ex. MO, X)eddling his bicycle along the paths. Just time for, 'hello and how are you,' plus 'this life is great.' 
"Was tempted to take a run up to Milwaukee to see you. Bob. but then time began getUng short and I became interest^ in the Navy, so called it off. From Richmond on the merry way to Chi­cago. •^^sited with Len Smith's (ex. MO), mother and. found that Len was a second looie in the army at Fort Penning, Ga., and is married. The new Mrs. Smith was Dorothy Swarthout of Racine, Wis., late of Northwestern University. 
"Then on over to the South Side of Chicago for an evening with the Hank Engels, the Mrs. of that duo being Sally Ragan of St. Mary's. N.D„ and Indianapolis. 'Dieir marriage took place last June in bidianapolis and the writer was on hand for the festivities. When Sally and Hank an­nounced to me that they would show me the ^gfats of Chicago, they meant it—from early evening to the wee small hours. Hank is working in Chicago for an accounting firm and is going great guns. Incidentally, he spent three months here in Minneapolis a year ago—^which meant old times for the two of us. 
"While on our tour of the spots, met Tom Daffy and his lovdy wife. Tom was awaiting some word for Uncle Sam's armed forces. Learned also that Jack Hasaey was being married to a Chicago gal on the following Saturday. Jack is in the Navy and was stationed at Notre Dame- Also learned that Dick DiDon was married and is finishing up law school. Bill Geddes, had just joined the Army of draftees. 
"Enffcls also reported that the Walter Flemings, and the Jim Foleys, both of Dallas, were keeping things in the southern part of the country hum­ming. Walt and Elizabeth are the proud parents of two boys—Walt is busy in the Fleming paper mills: The Foleys were married last year, and althousb Jim is in the Army, he is stationed in Dallas. The Georce Beckers have also taken up an abode in Dallas. 
"From Chicago on to South Bend, but didn't have time to take in the town, but just got as far as Hie airport and a plane to Detroit and Grosse Pointe to TUt Marion and Tom Hammond. Tliey were married a year ago April and the writ­er wss also <m hand for their festivities, ^dn' t given the Hanunonds much notice of my visit and conaecmently was surprised and pleased to 
The Notre Dame Alurtinus 
be their first guest in their beautiful new home in Grosse Fointe and also the first outsider to sec their baby daughter—age two weeks, Tom is working for the Hudson Ordnance Plant in Detroit. Has been with Hudson ever since be left Michigan law school. 
"No reservations on planes out of Detroit for a week, so caught a train for South Bend and fotmd it was the transixirtatxon fat gaesAs at the N. D. Senior Ball being held that night. 
N. D. and South Bend were much the same except that so many familiar faces were missing. How­ever, the faces of Bill Hooney (also married), Jerry "No Smut" O'Dowd, Bill Hogrmn, Dick Fes­arty, Dean Henegan, and Jim Daner, all of '40, graced the Caf and the Blarney Inn. 
"Just missed Hize Alorris who was on the campus for the week-end. Understand he is work­ing in Mexico. Mo. but expecting army du^, 
"Then a week-end in. Chicago and then back home for me. Have been working for the same company since graduation, a wholesale hardware and implement house and am now in charge of 'the City Desk.' like it, but have joined up in V-7 and will report, I hope, in October to Notre Dame for training. Am busy now taking algebrs. by corresiwndence from the University of Minne­sota, along with a Trig class in their summer night school, plus my work during the day. A full schedule but not too bad. Tried for V-7 a year and a half ago but was refused because of surplus waistline. T^e draft for tho same reason put mc in 2A. However, got busy on my excess poundage and at present weigh in at 160 pounds. 
"Just got an announcement of the wedding of laeut. Kenneth (Fat) J. GoS to Miss Helen Hunter in Auburn, N. Y. on May 11, 1942. Helen was P^t's £fuest for our Senior Ball. Last report has Bnriey- Johnston flying bombers in the ferrying command. Also imderstand Ned Maboney has fin­ished law school and is now awaiting call into V-7 of the Na\'y. Received an invitation last January to a party announcing the engagement of Jim Shiely to one of our St. Paul gals, but was unable to attend. 
'*Bin McVey is working for the government in S t Louis (not the army) and is doing all rifi^t for himself. Terry Smith is still in New Orleans and still single. One of the few besides mysdf out of the whole class." 
Hanks, Joe, for the fine letter and I hope many of the fellows will write you at "Four Gables-KnoUwood," Hopkins, Minn., Route 1. 
Ted Jodtems is now an aviation lieutenant in the army, having just completed his course at Victorville, Calif. His address was A.FJLF.S,, AAB 4-10, Victonalle, Calif. Ted, why dont you drop a note and tell me a little something about . yourself and what you have been doing for the last two years? 
Dan Hnsliek is now a married man, and has left Jefferson Barracks, Mo., and is now In Flor­ida attending officers' training schooL Dan was a staff sergeant at Jefferson Barracks, but will soon be a second lieutenant, and that's not bad at all. 
Neal Gleason has entered the army. Saw him a few weeks ago at Ft. Sheridan when he stopped off on his way to Ft. Francis E. Warren, Wyo. Be is engaged in his basic training course and, wben, that is completed, plans on going to a specialists*' schooL 
As for yours truly, I am at F t Shmdan taUng my bade training. Last week I fotmd onfc tiiat I conldn't shoot a gun, but there is some twpe because I am beginning to show a little improve­ment I have not been asdsmed to amy eonqiuiy as yet and I am taking my training at a casual detachment However, by the time this goes to press I will have finished vay training and will probably have received my assignment in the army. One' is not sure jusit where he is going until he gets there and even then he is not sure how long he wilf stay. So if any of you get the urge to-write, please send your mail to my home and then it'will be forwarded to me. 
I have to stop. Lights are out now. If you think lights went out early at N. D., you ought to try the army sometime. You fellows who can stay up late and write please do so because it is difHcult to write when in the army. 
Jim Heintzelman has been graduated from the field artillery officer training school at Fort Sill. Okla., and is now a second lieutenant He has been assigned to the staff and faculty of the school. 
KcT, O'Gorman is a classmate of Jack Osbom in the med school at the University of Buffalo. 
Walt Sullivan, ex. '40, is working for Bell Air­craft in Buffalo. 
Gerry Horrissey writes from Sault 9te. Marie, BGch.. that he has become affiliated with the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company as a field engineer on the Sault Lock job. 
Joe Ryan is instructing in Taft Calif, in the basic flight school there, according to a note from Ueo t Bill Harsh, *41. 
Word from Don Foskett at Fort Bragg, N. C tells of busy days in his hospital work and of meeting up with a phenomenal subway alumnus from New York who knows by heart all the starting N. D. line-ups for the past 10 years, etc, etc, even though the guy has never seen the campus. 
Rojral Allaire, M.S., '40, physics professor at S t Bede College, Peru, III., has a leave of alv sence to do research work at M. I. T. for the federal government 
1941 Jakn W. PattcTMn, Jr.. 553t DarlinK* ton Bd^ Pitttbanh. Pm. 
Alarnni Contribaton, 1942-43 

T. Donald Cassidy, Chicago; Joseph F. Cattie, Philadelphia; llioinas A. Delia« Brooklyn; Jesse Ii. Doll, Louisville; Robert J. Doran, Danbury, Conn.; Lawrence T. Eby, Rosell, N. J.; Robert 
J. Fallon, Hoaston, Tex.; Stephen P. Ferraro, Baltimore; Jerome J. Froelich, Newarlc, N. J.; Charles E. Greene, Jr., Indianapolis; Joseph B. Olbrys, Ogdensburg, N. Y.; Joseph F. Russo, Bristol, Tenn.; Hawley E. Van Swall, Syracuse, 
N. Y.; George H. Zeller, Stewart Manor, N. Y. 
—Signal Corps Photo 

Dick Dwn, '41. (left) ami JM Sdvldt. It. were ^•••iMlwri am ima i Beateaaati in «ke Qaar­1«i—ilir Gw>a in cirnwlfi at Caap Lee. Ta.. 
tmAfta iS. 
—Official  V. S, Navy FhotoKnpKs  
Som e  of  the  nnmeron s  Notr e  Dam e  me n  commissione d  a s  ensign s  i n  th e  Nava l  Resarr a  fo r  service  a s  nava l  fiyan  are .  
presente d  her e  in  fnll  regalia.  Lef t  t o  right,  the y  are :  Ensig n  Thoma s  V .  Lloyd ,  *40;  Ensig n  Joh n  F ;  ODaa ,  '41 ;  Ensig n  

Harold W. Borer, '40; Ensign Thomas P. 
From John Patterson (on May 29): 
It was tough enough getting letters off from Camp Wheeler, but now that I'm with the first division out in the woods surrounding Fort Ben-ning—^well. it's like a boy scout writing a letter in the midst of an overnight hike. 
I do have a small gathering of news, though, about some of the 1941 boys. 
Yesterday a letter came Irom Gas Dercome's father explaining that Gus is now an ensign in the' 
U. S. Navy and is stationed at the Philadelphia Navy Yards. 
. I also learned by way of a formal announcement that Ray Kelly of the Detroit Eellys has i)ecome a loving husband. The ceremony was performed at Notre Dome. I'm passing the information along for those of the gang who hadn't heard as yet. 
Of course, Ray married Kay La Vasseur. one of the "belles of St. Mary's." ~ 
My roomate, Ralph Raymond Pinelli. is now a corporal in the array. He's in the medical corps stationed at Enid, Oklahoma. Ray has the de­lightful job of stabbing poor, unfortunate draftees with the needle which injects the various anti­toxins—yellow fever, typhoid, and tetanus. He claims that it is much more fun to do the sticking than to get stuck. I agree. 
Now that I'm through my basic and definitely settled with a unit of the army, things look pretty good. I received my Pfc yesterday, only two weeks after my arrival here. I'm working in division G-2; that's intelligence work. 
For now that's all there is. I'm still waiting to hear from a few of the pre-med golfers of 1941 and everyone else who can find time to drop a line. 
Joe Gillespie is in the Naval Air Corps, training at Glenview, 111., near Chicago. He had assisted Tom HatdiiRson, '38, of the Indianapolis Public Library in handling books brought in as a result of the statewide Victory Book campaign. 

Lleot. Bill Marsh reports from Gowen Field, Boise, Idaho, that he was married in March, 1942. He is now flying a flying fortress for the army. 
Jade Landry is an aviation cadet in Douglas, Ga. 
WiOiaM E. Scanlan, 7*1 W. WtstsMin 
ParUfe. Wis. 
1942 
Alomni Contribators, 1942-43 

Daniel F. Duggan. Lynn, Mass.; Richard K. Ow^ia, Indianapolis, Ind.; William E. Scanlon, Portage. Wis.; Peter W. Stewart, South Bend; Paul J. Xafel, Louisville. 
From BiO Scanlan: By a coincidence two members of the class of 

 Carroll, ex. '42; Ensign Erwin J. Mooney, '41, and Ensign Richard V. Donahne, e3U '41* 
'42, as yet imacquainted but toting the same name —^Bob Uhl and George UU—were the first to'jump . into the mailbag of '42. Uhl Ko. 1, the ioumalist. is currently referred to as "private" at Keesler Field. Miss. He joined the Army shortly after graduation in May. Another Villager in the same headquarters is Tom Hoyer. who departed two days before graduation. Bob expects to learn the Army methods of weather observing while Tom is likely to be assigned to study in the radio school. 
George Uhl. the engineer, started work June 1 at the Reilly plant in Indianapolis. "I'm getting pretty well set here. Like the work a lot. Am, in the lab now. Haven't heard anything at all about the fellows yet," he postcards. 
Jesse Satheriand. when last heard from, was at Luke Field. Ariz. He expected to be sent to Lowry F^eld for si>ecialized training. 
From Washington. D. C . the old roommate, Jim O'Laoghlin. writes: **Jira Fayette stayed here at the house a few days on his way to Vermont. Frank Fox. who started work in the F.BJ. re­cently, arrived in Washington and has been stay­ing with us, I saw Bill Starbitts the other day for a few minutes. I guess he returned to D. C. via New York." 
Jim also repotted that Dan Cnllinane, now sta­tioned with the Marines at Quantico. Va.. was a visitor recently—^but Jim .wasn't home. And Jim ^vas. expecting a call by now from the Marines. 
From Indiana—the South Bcsid "Tribune's" af­filiation with the class of '42—Paal Neville, comes through with a nifty bit of reporting: 

"School has started with some 1.800 guys in attendance. Earl Dean is among the ensigns and lieuts., getting six weeks of exercise on the campus before doing engineering for the Navy. Tea Tcamcy. of Chicago, Is back on campus studying law. 
"Tom Powers was last seen running a golf driving range on Long Island. EauKtt Eeeaaa started a job with an accounting firm in Chicago on June 16, but he expects to join our great uncle some time in July. Joe Hracfcove^ after a trip home to South Dakota by' way of Colorado beeansa floods had washed out a couple of bridges, has taken a job outside of Hot Springs with some construction outfit. 
"Was out to school today for a swim in the lake. Panl LUlts is at school and has a room in the law building basement. Uillc is now served, in dining halt in individual bottles. FatlMr Jaha Lyndk was in the hospital but is oat now." . 
fVom Fond da Lac, Wis. eomes the report that Don Gnyette expects to join the Army Air Corps soon. His six-feet-plus frame kept hira cot of the Marines and Navy. Another report comins this way annoonees that Tna Degaaa.and Walt Caries are looaung together in Wilmington. DeL 'Riey are woAing for doPonts. Frank Hapkiaa^ a '41 graduate was living with them nntil he was called by the Navy. • 
Jim Kice, who returns to his Alma Mater, Reedsfaorg; Yfis,, hi ^ sdiocd in the &11 as aanat­ant coach, breezed into Madison. Wis., for a wed­ding the other day—not his own, thoo ^ 
Jiai ffin is cnrrenlty working at the Badger Ordnance Ccxnpany project at nearby Merrimae. Wis., as an oigineer. Jim just eame in from Sop^or, Wis., where his brother died^ early tins SMmth. While in Superior, Jim bad the dxinealt task of running his brother's tmekline. "And I didn't know the first thing about it," ^ m reports. 

By the time this reaches publication, the Seoop­er will probably be another cog in the Army. Spent one week trucking freight at the frti^t depot here—^just con^Uoning exercise. 
By the way. a nifty pin from the Ahmmi Asso­ciation arrived this way the other day. A 9>edal Centenary edition. One like it is yours for your contribution to the Association. Mail it Erectly to the Alumni Office. Notre Dame. Ind. Anything from a dollar up. 
In the meantime, let^s hear from some of the others among 3ron who are getting settled now. By the way, notice the new address: 701 West Wisconsin Street. Portage, Wis, 
"If it's news, write Scoop." 

E4 SellrraB, a student in the Georgetown Medi­cal Sdioc4, recently passed his physical and has been recommended for a commission in the Kaval Reserve. 
Jisi Jadrn, staff sergeant, has been admitted to the air ^orce officers' candidate school in ICami Beach, Fla. 
Bay P—ami has settled in South Bend and has »<t^wywmma duties as assistant director of publirity at Notre Dame. Bay'was married in May. 
ENSIGN FAHEY SURVIVES 

Eodgn Hmraid S. Takty, Jn, ex. '43. is the lone sonivor of one o< the worst blimp crashes in history, ^iw^m Fahey, who -was co.pilot of the Navy blimp I.-2, leaped throoEfa a window whoi the cabin of his ship hit the water after colKdinc with another Navy blimp off the coast of Hew Jersey on Jtrae 9. Be viras the only one of 13 men aboard the two blimps to survive. 
Howie was in the first sroop of men to leav* . .Notre Dame to join the armed forces. 
Football Tickets ... . 
Announcement of Notre Dame's home games and season ticket football prices was made re­cently simultaneously %\ath the mailing of nearly 5,000 season ticket application blanks. The sale of season tickets opened July 15. The sale of tickets to individual games will open Aug. 1. In­dividual game applications will be mailed at the end of the month. 
The complete 1942 schedule follows: 
Sept. 26—^Wisconsin at Madison Oct. 3—Georgia Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 10—Stanford at Notre Dame Oct 17—Iowa Navj-- Pre-Flight School at 
Noti-e Dame Oct. 24—^Illinois at Champaign Oct. 31—Navy at Cleveland Nov. 7—^Army at New York Nov. 14—^Michigan at Noti'e Dame Nov. 21—^NorthAvestern at Notre Dame Nov. 28—So. California at Los Angeles Dec. 5—Great Lakes N. T. S. at Chicago 
The five outstanding home games, ar­ranged as part of Notre Dame's centennial celebration, -^vill be available to fans under the season ticket plan at a total cost of $12.10, including tax, for sideline seats in 
Atumnl ticket 
preferred locations that would otherwise cost §14.30. The season ticket folder also describes a pai-tial pajonent or lay-away plan under which only a down payment is necessary. 
The possibility that the Southern Cali­fornia game, now scheduled for Los Angeles, Avill be shifted here is provided for in the plan. In this event, sideline reserved seats will be made available at the list price, but in the preferred season ticket location. 
Following are the home game prices: 
Box  Side  End  
Georgia  Tech  $4.40  $2.20  $1.10  
Stanford  5.50  3.30  1.65  
Iowa Seahawks  4.40  2.20  1.10  
Michigan  5.50  3.30  3.30  
Noi-thwestem  5.50 .  3.30  2.20  

Oftfp^maiio^' 

The following points regarding 1942 football tickets are specifically for alumni, and alumni are asked to keep them carefully in mind in ordering tickets: 
1.
 Ticket applications mailed the later part of OPENS AUGUST 1. 

2.
 Applications will ALUAINUS mailing: list, If you have not received notify the Alumni Office. 



 for the 19-12 football ^ames wiH be  July. THE SALE OF TICKETS 
 be mailed to all alumni on the  at the address used in that list.  your blanks by August 1, please 
3. Applications are printed expressly for alumni, with-the word ALUl^INI across one end. These are the only blanks 
•which receive checlanE for alumni preference, so please use them. Use of alumni blanks by non-alumni will entail no preference. 
4. Alumni whose contributions have been made to the 
Alumni Association for the year 1942-43 will receive prefer­
ence in the allotment of FOUR TICKETS each until SEP­
TEMBER 15. OR UNTIL ALL TICKETS HAVE BEEN 
SOLD FOR A GIVEN GAME. In the nature of Notre Dame's 
business relations with other institutions on the schedule, it is 
impossible to Kuarantee tilling off orders for a preferred group 
after an announced sell-out. 

5. A^i n this year, several games promise to exhaust the 
capacity of the stadia in which they will be played. Almnnt 
desiring preference are, therefore, urged to order their tickets 
as soon as the blanks are received. 
6. Alumni may have general public application blanks 
upon request for their own use or for friends, or may send in 
the names of such friends who will be sent tiie blanks direct. 
(This latter practice has saved many alumni time, expense, 
and embarrassment.) 

7. Season ticket blanks for the home games have been 
mailed. If alumni who have not received such blanks are 
interested in them they should should write at once to the 
Football Ticket Committee. Notre Dame. Ind. Season tickets 
do NOT carry alumni preference. 
8. Alumni in the service are urged, in ordering tickets, to 
give a permanent address, since tickets are not mailed until 
approximately ten days before the game. 
9. More true this year than ever, with the accelerated 
academic program at Notre Dame, is the fact that tiie Alumni 
Association monbership increases by more fJian five hundred 
between football seasons. Naturally this growth is propor­
tionately reflected in the assignment of preferred seats. 



