The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Jamtari/, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
-a 

COMMENT 

Dues in the Alumni Association are five dollars annually, payable on June 1 .of each year. 
Payment of dues includes a charge for the ALUMNUS. 
This obligation has not been taken seriously enough by alumni in the past. The future of the Association rests on a change in attitude. 
If you received nothing more than the magazine, with its news of Notre Dame and your classmates, your money would be well spent. And in all frankness that is about all you've been receiving. The freedom of the University at Commencement has been e.xtended to all alike and can­not be justly exploited as a benefit. 
Now, the Association is on the verge of making it eminently worth while to be a Notre Dame man before the public, just as it has always been worth while individually. 
But the cost of progress finds re­flection in the Treasury. The maga­zine, published as economically as the officers believe to be suitable for its purposes, still presents the greatest item in the annual budget. 
The upkeep of the Alumni Office, postage, mechanical equipment (our own addressing system has just been installed with most promising advan­tages), telephone and telegraph ser\-­ice, is no longer a negligible item with a direct ser\'ice to more than 5,000 alumni. 
The Alumni Secretary and two young ladies, despite their love of education and their admiration for the purposes of the Association, are not sufficiently endowed to pursue their efforts unremunerated. 
Two roads are open. One is de­priving many alumni of their contacts with the University. This is contrary to the aims of the Association. It is contrary to the desires of the officers of the Association. It is contrary to the desires of Notre Dame. We be­lieve that it is contrary to the wishes of the alumni themselves who are 
IN Tills IXJUE 
The Fire of 1879 Frontispiece A Happy Notre Dame New Yeai'_ 163 This Notre Dame 165 Erskine Trophy Award-169 Editorial 171 New Academic Requirements-173 Art at Notre Dame 176 Athletics 182 The Alumni Clubs 184 The Alumni 188 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March :!. 1897. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AJIERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL ME.MBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUJINI FEDERATION 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HAKLEY L. MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 

THE . ALU MNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Eldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EEV. JOHN CAV.^NAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President FRANK E . HERING, '98 ---President HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, '13 Vice-President JAJIES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 ---Treasurer GEORGE M . MAVPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
T. P.WL MCGANNON, '07 Director PETER P. MCELLIGOTT, '02 Director JOHN W. EGGE.MAN, 'GO (ea; officio) Director 

•iminnnniiitmiiiiiitiiiiipl 
thus endangered. It would be a ter­those old tent re^'ivals, in the same rific step backward when all Notre Christian spirit of overlooking the Dame is moving in the opposite di­past in the greater glory the future rection. offers. 
The other road seems much more While every effort is being made to inviting. The only obstacle is five 
bring success to the Living Endow­dollars for each individual who is not 
ment, the Association is the basis of the Living Endowment Plan, and 
paid up. 
until the Association is properly sup­
If you haven't paid your dues since ported, little can be hoped for the graduation, be that in '49 or '30, let success of its ramifications, no matter the dead past confine itself to keep­how worthy. ing you awake nights with its ghosts. For the sake of unity and progress, Those whose dues are unpaid for the Association policy at present is 
1930-1931 still have time. 

to welcome those who hit the sawdust trail with a five-spot as heartily as It is never too late to spend. 
(ED. NOTE: 
Following are excerpts from a poem written a few days after the disastrous fire of 1879 bv Thomas A. Daily, '74, then editor of th-> South Bend Herald, and read at a public meeting of the citizens of South Bend to express their sympathy to the University.) 
»•;;?;•••' • 
^ 

A cloudless sky, a sultry day; A wealth of sunshme in the air. Young spring icas blooming soft and fair, A7id o'er the Earth held sovereign sivay . . . 
A cry, a brief electric flash,— A burst of awful fear leaped out; A moment of suspense and doubt— 
Ere thousands from the city dash . . . 
0 God, it was a thrilling sight. Where rolled the fierce flames to the sky. And great, brave men stood helpless by; 
Crushed 'neath the monster's ivithering blight . 
Sarin, thy life work lies a glow Of crumbled clay and shapeless dross. Thy brethren of tlie Holy Cross 
Behold their labor worthless grow . . . 
Lo! crushed to thy foundation stone; From oitt those rttins comes a voice That bids thee rise, ^l^ grief rejoice,— 
In woe thou weepest not alone. 
We feel thy loss, we saw thy birth: Thy classic halls once more shall rise; Thy dome again sliall pierce the skies. 
The grandest momiment of earth. 
.irise! O peerless Notre Dame! Forth from the gloom of thy despond. To meet the coming years beyond, 
..•i.nd dedicate anew thy aim. 
Thy fame is oiu's; our strength we give: Sarin, thy Patriarch, shall not Go to his grave and be forgot; 
His name through ages yet shall live. 





TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume IX. JANUARY, 1931 No. 5 
A Happy Notre Dame New Year 
This heading is more than the cus­
tomary greeting of the season. 
The Alumni Association is embark­
ing upon the last half of its fiscal 
year. But between January 1 and 
June 1, the success of the entire 
Association year rests. 
The outstanding features of the 
1931 program between now and June 
1 are: 
1.
 A successful completion of the first year of the Living Endowment. The University and the officers of the Association are aware of the financial difficulties which the past calendar year brought with alaiTning universal­ity. The amount on June 1, 1931, will not be the criterion of the suc­cess of the Fund. But what the Uni­versity and the Association officers hope is that the list of contributors, which will be published at the end of the Association year, will represent more than the ten per cent of the members now listed. For that pur­pose the Association has repeatedly urged members to contribute any amount, from one dollar up, distrib­uted over any convenient period. The Fund is the crystallization of Notre Dame men's faith in Notre Dame edu­cation. 

2.
 The formulation of a rather detailed program to be suggested to the various Local Alumni Clubs. A committee of Club presidents, appoint­ed at the First Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs last June, is working on this program at the present time. The .Association admin­istration believes that the Clubs, no matter what their numerical strength, can do immeasurably more good for Notre Dame than has been done in the past and can derive strength within themselves in the doing. The proposed program promises to fill a need that the Clubs themselves have expressed. 

3.
 Eighth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night. The Association execu­tives hope that this Night this year will mean all that it has meant in the past—revival of friendships, of Notre Dame spirit, the reunions of class­mates, the exchanges of reminiscence, and so on. The Night in many com­munities has achieved a social distinc­tion that can be maintained. It has acquired a publicity value that should not only be maintained but increased and utilized to the full. It has won prestige in intercollegiate alumni cir­cles. In many Clubs it means a dis­


tinguished gathering of alumni, to consider seriously the problems of the organization. These meetings nearest approach the possibilities of the Night. Everywhere it should mean an obsexTance that does three things primarily—first, remind the alumnus of Notre Dame in a very serious way; secondly, remind him of Notre Dame in a very enjoyable way, and thirdly, remind the world about him of Notx'e Dame in a very creditable way. The University, its graduates, and the world at large form a triangle. Their interests are mutually affected. The education that Notre Dame offers 
0.. 
UNIVERSAL 
NOTRE 
DAME 
NIGHT 

APRIL 20 
..Q 
affects the alumni as individuals, and it affects the world by contributing to that world a percentage of its edu­
cated leadei-s. The alumni affect the Univei-sity through their support or lack of it, through their example for prospective students, and thx'ough their conduct after graduation in their professions by which a college is un­officially, but most powerfully, rated. They affect the world as citizens of it. The world affects the alumni through its economic, social and political oppor­tunities, and it affects tha University according to its impression of the University gathered from the alumni. The world can aid Notre Dame and admire it. Or the world can dislike or fear Notre Dame and hamper it greatly. It is particularly to the ad­vantage of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men to take the world into consideration. Universal Notre Dame Night is a splendid opportunity for the alumni. 
4. The 1931 Commencement and Reunions. The Reunion Classes this year offer an opportunity to imprave on precedent that is going to be diffi­cult to avoid. Nor are the Classes 
likely to tiy to avoid it. The Class 
of 1926 holds its o-year Reunion, and 
if the good Dr. Hayes, Secretary of 
that organization, can find enough 
time between patients during the next 
few months, the members of the Class 
are fairly clamoring for the event. 
The younger Dix group is that of 
1912, 1913, 1914, and 1915, which is 
enough in itself to guarantee large 
times in that direction. The 25-year 
Class is that of 1906. This is the 
Class of the President, Rev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell. It is also illustrious for the publication of the first Dome. Why more now? The other Dix group is 1893, 1894, 1895, and 1896. The personnel of this group is going to surprise the later Reunion classes. 
A large part of the success of the Reunions lies with the Class Secre­taries. The Alumni Office and the ALUMNUS will do everything possi­ble to co-operate, but the Class Secre­tary and the members of the Class must have considerable initiative to make of the Reunion the real pleasure that it can so easily be. 
5.
 The Second Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs. Reports of the First Annual Council, held last Com­mencement, have been sent to all of the Cliib officers. Even in this first meeting there was evident a great deal of the good that can come from such a meeting of representatives of the growingly important local alumni groups. With the follow-up of this first meeting's work becoming effect­ive, the need for further co-operation and the benefit of further organiza­tion among the Clubs are more appar­ent than ever. It is hoped that the next Council of Clubs, to be held dur­ing Commencement week-end, will find many more Clubs among those repx-esented. 

6.
 A Jlore Complete Payment of Alumni Dues. Many schools using our Li\ing Endowment plan or some of its variations, have done away with alumni dues. The Association directors kept them in addition to the voluntaiy contribution plan for two reasons. First, the officers wanted a definite fund from which the expenses of the Alumni Office could be paid without drawing upon the Fund which was contributed directly to the Uni­versity. And secondly, because an 


•alumnus owes two different types of duty. The Editor has been asked to 

B"  111110  
SOME  DO - 
SOME  DON'T  
I  Class  and  Club  officers  and  i  

I alumni in general are asked by | = the Alumni Office to extend the \ i courtesy of a reply to official i 1 communications. It is tme that i 1 many of them are foi-ms. That i : is not because the writer con-| : siders you as unimportant. It i I is because time and facilities do i I not usually pei-mit personaliza-| i tion. \ 
\ The ALUJINUS regrets to | I cite, even for the constructive i I criticism we intend it to be, the \ \ fact that President Hering's i I first official letter to Club offi-i i eers, sent to more than 100 1 I Notre Dame men, prepared at i I length, and with care, for a i I definite and important purpose, | : elicited only five replies of any | i nature. | 
i Communication fro m the | I Alumni Office and from Class 1 I Secretaries have suffered simi-= I lar fate for years. The answer, = = of course, cannot always be i 1 Yes. But at least say No. i 

call the Li\nng Endowment idea a favor done by the alumni for the Uni­versity. If anyone wishes to consider his participation in the Living En­dowment idea in this light, well and good. The ever helpful Shakespeare has spoken of the rose and possible changes in its name to the same point. .Another form of obligation is involved in the Alumni Association. No school, which requii-es outside contacts and which has any interest in the success of its graduates and the more imper­sonal eflfeets of its policies and system of education, pretends to doubt the value of an alumni association. Or­ganized efi'ort has long since proved to be the preferable method in society. The mutual benefits it brings to alumni, the instrument it becomes for maintaining intelligent relations be­tween alumni and their college, the means it affords the alumni of aiding and maintaining the college so that the graduate is judged by the stand­ards of his school to his personal ad­vantage, the contacts it continues be­tween classmates and friends of col­lege days through a printed medium —these things make the alumni asso­ciation to which the graduate owes it to himself to belong. The right of a graduate to join this group implies, of course, the duty to support it. The Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame feels that its member­ship service creates for its members 
an obligation separate and distinct from any contribution the member may wish to make to the University. 
If you, as an alumnus, will join in the above program, it will indeed be a Happy Notre Dame New Year. Not all of you can be officers at one time. Not all of you have spare time. Not all of you have money. Some of you knew Notre Dame when Father Sorin was still its guiding genius. Some of you are fresh from its classrooms. 

But all of you have something Notre Dame needs. All of you have the Notre Dame spirit. All of you have the ability to inform others of the Notre Dame that they should know, and usually don't. All of you can enjoy Universal Notre Dame Night. All of you can attend Com­mencement. Those of you in the Reunion Classes, we hope can come back. Those of you in the Clubs can see that your Club joins in the new Club program which we hope to in­troduce this year. All of you, it would seem, could participate in Liv­ing Endowment under the present plan without great personal sacrifice. A dollar seems small, but it repre­sents S20 in the bank for the year at o'/r. And even a dollar from 5,000 of you would represent $100,000 un­der the same arrangement. If your stock goes up a point or two, there are altogether too many of you not on the Dues-Paid list, who, for the remission of a five-spot, can look lots better on the card index. 
The Association has no desire to drop any member, or to withhold its sen-ices. But it is obvious that such things as the magazine, the ballots, various correspondence from the Alumni Office, the information con­cerning classmates, furnishing of addresses, and so on, cost. Nature is the only agency that ever successfully survived a consistent policy of some­thing for nothing. And even that is open to argument. 
iminiiiniiiimniniinimimpl 

E 

JUNE REUNIONS 
1881 — SO-Year 
1893 
1894 
Dix Group 
1895 
1896 
1906 — 25-Year 
1912 1913 
Dix Group 
1914r 1915J 
1926 — 5-Year 
MQ 

B" 
Washington Hall 
The schedule of movies in Washing­ton Hall for the next month or two indicates the benfits of the installa­tion of sound film: "Half Shot at Sunrise," (not the best illustration to begin with, perhaps); "Lightnin'," "Check and Double Check," "Charlie's Aunt," "Disraeli," "Anybody's War," "Tol'able David," and so on. 
Other familiar events and faces ap­pear on the "social" program just issued for January, February and March. 
Phidelah Rice is listed for January 
19. The University Band gives its spring concert March 9. The Univer­sity Theatre gives its annual St. Patrick's Day performance. (Follow­ing the scathing denunciation by the Scholastic of the recent performance, of "Twelfth Night," the choice of production is even more indefinite. 
The K. of C. Formal, while not in Washington Hall, is listed on the pro­gram for Februarj- 4. Semester ex­aminations begin January 2S. 
The debaters keep Washington Hall busy—Pittsburgh on Feb. 12, City College of Detroit on Feb. 24, U. of Porto Rico the 27th, U. of Kansas March 10 and Michigan State the 13th, with Purdue coming here March 
99 
N. D. Sociologists Busy 
What it costs to administer crim­inal justice under the citj', state and federal law enforcement agencies in South Bend, Mishawaka, and Elkhart, Ind., will be the subject of an exhaus­tive study by the department of so­ciology of the University of Notre Dame. 
The matter is being taken up at the request of the national commis­sion on law observance and enforce­ment, appointed by President Hoover, it was announced Saturday night by the Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C:S.C., 'IS, head of the department. 
"rhe Notre Dame staff's work will form a part of a nation-wide inves­tigation to determine the expense of criminal law enforcement in the larger cities. The commission is enlisting the assistance of bureaus of municipal research and graduate students of social science to study individual cities. The result will be correlated and published by the com­mission. 
Two advanced students at Notre Dame, Leonard F. Horan, of Medina, 
N. Y., and John P. Hickey, of Home­stead, Pa., will collect the data in the three northern Indiana cities. They will work under Father Murray. It is expected that their work will be completed before the end of the school vear. 

January, 19-31 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 




THIS NOTRE DAME 
A Few Hit and Miss Facts About Notre Dame; Publicity of Recent Fall Indicates Lack of Knowledge of University Itself; Alumni Need More Information. 
Notre Dame du Lac, founded in 1S42 in St. Joseph County, Indiana, by Rev. Edward Sorin and seven Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, a French Order, through a grant by the Bishop of Vincennes, Indiana. Chartered as a college in 1S44, by the Legislature. 
Catalogue stuff! Nevertheless, did you notice during the Fall how many news items showed a familiarity with Notre Dame football and total unfamiliarity with Notre Dame as an educational institution? How many alumni are in a position to correct the impres­sions accurately? 
Following are a few facts about Notre Dame history that may help alumni in the stove leagues. The ALUMNUS hopes to continue this feature if it is popular and helpful. 
Notre Dame was almost established in Daviess County, twenty-seven miles east of Vincennes, where Father Sorin was first stationed as a missionary. It was the Bishop's objections that caused the site to shift to the present campus. 
Marquette passed the site of Notre Dame two hundred years before its founding. Badin, the first priest or­dained in America, had a chapel on the shores of St. Mary's lake (a rep­lica of that chapel now stands on the old site) in 1830. It was the mission­ary center for the Indians of North­ern Indiana and Southern Michigan. 
Total assets of the founder of Notre Dame totalled less than §1,500 when he began the work of erecting a college, a church and a novitiate. • 
The first commencement was Au­gust 1, 1845. The first catalogue was published in 1848. 
Neal Gillespie, later Father Gil­lespie, received the first collegiate degree, a Bachelor of Arts, in 1849, five years after the charter was granted to Notre Dame. 
In 1854 twenty members of the Community died from an epidemic of cholera. 
Father Sorin was so American that he sent a nephew priest back to France because he could not absorb the American ideals to suit his uncle. 
The Civil War claimed many stu­dents, and the Community sent at great sacrifice to Notre Dame, seven of its finest priests as chaplains-Three of the seven died as a result of service. 
The Ave Maria was founded at Notre Dame by Father Sorin in 1865. He was for many years its editor. 
The first Alumni Association of Notre Dame was organized in 1868. The history of the first twenty-five years of Notre Dame was published by the Association for the Silver Jubilee. 
The first regular student periodical was published in 1867, The Scholastic Year. In 1872 it became the present Scholastic. 
A scientific society for students and faculty, the United Scientific Associa­tion, existed at Notre Dame in 1868. 
The fii-st law school in a Catholic college in this country was organized at Notre Dame in 1869. Col. Hoynes began his work in 1883. In 1886 the school was rated among the best in the counti-y by the Chicago Law Jour­nal. 
FATHER SORIN GREETING THE INDUXS 
Gregori's Picture of the Founding of Notre Dame 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1931 
!*¥;«'(* <^.^.t••/!'.•' 

FATHER COBBY GIVING ABSOLUTION AT GETTYSBURG 
Paul 
Father Sorin was an expert marble player. 
April 23rd, 1S79, the main building and sevei-al adjacent buildings -were completely destroyed by fire, and many of the great treasures that had been .collected by laborious effort were lost. 
During the Civil War, the family of General Shei-man lived at N^otre Dame. 
Tlie Laetare Medal was conferred 
first in 1883. It has become America's 
greatest award to a Catholic layman. 
Tlie bodies of the famous Orestes 
Brownson, and the missionary priests 
Fathers De Seille, Petit and Cointet 
lie in Sacred Heart Church. 
Notre Dame had an enviable ath­letic reputation long before football was introduced. The first baseball team was organized in 1867, with Adrian "Pop" Anson among its mem­bers. Notre Dame had no official coaches until the beginning of this century. John F. Powers was all-around track champion of America in 1899. He high-jumped 6 feet 13-4 inches; broad-jumped 23 feet 3 3-4 inches; pole-vaulted 11 feet 2 inches; tossed the 16 pound shot 41 feet 6 inches; the 16 pound hammer 106 feet S inches, and the discus 115 feet 11 inches. 
Harry Jewett was the most re­markable athlete in the west while at Notre Dame 1890-93. He ran the 100 in 10 flat; the 220 in 212-5; the 440 in 49 4-5 seconds. He covered the mile in 4 min. 58 sec. He high-jumped 5 ft. 10 1-2 in.; broad-jumped 

Wood's Famous Painting (at the Age of Eighteen) 
21 ft. S 1-2 in.; did the running hop, step and jump to 46 ft. S 1-4 in. and threw the 16-pound shot 39 ft. 10 in. Corcoran and Draper present similar all-around records. 
Louis Salmon captained the season 
of 1903, in which not a point was 
scored against Notre Dame. Salmon 
v.-as graduated with honors in the 
course of civil engineering. 
Three world's records were broken 
in the Notre Dame gym in 1901 (220­
yard dash, 40-yard low hurdles and 
the running broad jump.) The world's 
record for the 40-yard dash was 
equalled there in 1900. 
N. R. Gibson, later big league star, was considered the best pitcher in -A.merican college baseball while on the N. D. team, 1896-00. Notre Dame has sent forty baseball players to the Big Leagues. 
Eighty Notre Dame men are coach­ing football. 
The first successful wireless mes­sage sent in this country was sent by Prof. Greene, of the University faculty as a result of experiments at Notre Dame, almost paralleling the success of Marconi in Italy. 
Early experiments in the principles of a\'iation were conducted by Albert 
F. Zahm at the University. Dr. Zahm is now holder of the Guggenheim chair of aeronautics in the Congres­sional Library, 
Notre Dame for -years held the greatest debating record in college historj'. For one period of twelve , years the Notre Dame teams were unbeaten. 
James Roy, a Notre Dame man, won the national intercollegiate ora­torical championship in 1929. 
Notre Dame's Glee Club was the 
first college glee club to make a 
sound picture for Warner Brothers 
Vitaphone. 
The Glee Club has broadcasted a number of concerts on national radio hook-ups and is one of 12 such groups selected this year for a special series of programs. The Club sang four days at the Hippodrome in New York in 1930, appearing during that time before 80,000 persons. The Club re­fused an offer to appear at Roxy's last Easter. 
Notre Dame has a number of stage luminaries among its former students ^James O'Neil of "Monte Cristo" fame, and W. H. Crane, among the older generation; Frank Campeau and Ford Sterling of the talking pic­tures; Charlie Butterworth and Ver­non Rickard of the musical stage. Alan Dwan, prominent in the direct­ing end of the mo\'ing picture indus­try, is a graduate. J. P. McEvoy and William Anthony McGuire, whose plays have appeared on stage and screen are Notre Dame men. 
Walter O'Keefe, night club enter­tainer and composer, was popular in recent campus history. J. Paul Fo­garty, composer, of "Betty Co-Ed" and other recent hits, is a graduate. 
Frederic William Wile, Washington journalist and radio political speaker, is from Notre Dame. 
Supreme Court Justice Hammer of New York; Supreme Court Justice 

Galen of Montana (opponent of 
s Thomas J. Walsh for the Senate last November); former Federal Judge Nicholas Sinnott; John P. Murphy, nationally known attorney for the Van Sweringen interests; Grattan Stanford, personal attorney for Harry Sinclair; M. Harry Miller, former football star and now counsel for the Grasselli chemical organization; Ar­thur P. Hudson, one of the outstand­
•p iz; 
P 
•J 
< 
< 
p 
H 
O 
pq W 
EH 

now inherit well-establislied business­es or substantial fortunes. 
On the average, however, and a most important consideration, Notre Dame's representatives have been consistently successful. More and more they rise above the increasingly diflicult competition. The future holds nothing but promise, as the past has held nothinjf Ijiit progress. 
ing judges of West Virginia; Robert J3. Proctor, former state senator, now president of the Fraternal Order of Eagles; James E. Deery, former judge, now city attorney of Indianap­olis, also national secretary of the National Council of Catholic Men; William E, Cotter, attorney for the Union Carbon and Carbide Co.; Ray 
T. Miller, prosecuting attoi-ney of Cuyahoga County (Cleveland); Pat 
TllK PitKSKNT NoTnK l)AMK 
It may be well to quote a few state­ments by prominent non-Notre Dame men, made some few years back wlien Notre Dame was far less important in the national field of education than at present: 
. . . Notre Dame stands high among the universities of America. Indeed, it is an Inspiration to other colleges and uiiiver.sities." h. D. Coffman, Malloy, recently appointed Sinclaii' Oil attorney and president of his own oil company; these are a few hurried­ly listed Notre Dame men prominent in the legal profession. Tlie same procedure could be followed for bank­ing, for manufacturing, for business, for science, for journalism. 
True, we have contributed no high governmental officers; no great lead­ers of industry such as Ford, Schwab, 
tMiiiiiH the Hediilifiil NcKi Sl(i<liiiiii 
President of the U. of Minnesota. "I have long been familiar with the high quality of the educational work which you are doing. . ." The late and then President of the United States, Warren G. Hai'ding. "Having visited the University on several occasions, I have realized the splendid work it has done and the tremendous possibilities for the fu­
Carnegie, Rockefeller, and so on,—yet. 
Notre Dame is a young school, as schools go. As a university it is considerably younger. Always, be­ginning with its Manual Labor School in the charter of 1844 it has empha­sized opportunity for the poor boy. A very large percentage of boys at Notre Dame have worked their way through school. Our graduates do not, except in rare instance."), even 
ture . . ." Former Admiral W. S. Benson. 
"Notre Dame has won a high stand­ing among the Catholic schools of the country . . ." The late William Jen­nings Bryan. 
"Notre Dame is among the best schools in the entire West . . ." Sen­ator James E. Watson, Indiana. 
"Notre Dame University is one of the best educational institutions in America . . ." Senator David I. Walsh, Massachusetts. 
"The superb record of Notre Dame in the college world, her long service, her large contributions to the political life of the cauntry, and the genera­tions of splendid men who claim her for their Alma Mater are all reasons why everj' American should be inter­ested in Notre Dame . . ." Will H. Hayes, then Postmaster General. 
The above quotations are a few of many. Men, more important, per­haps than those above, have known Notre Dame and admired it. The in­stances cited are primarily to prove that Notre Dame has long been in the public eye, an integral part of nation­al education. Now, doubled in enroll­ment since that time, doubled in the physical plant, doubled in the size of its faculty, its academic standing ad­vanced accordingly both e.\tensively and intensively, with added publicity through three national football cham­pionships since the period of the above comments—it seems safe to say that Notre Dame has lost nothing. 
Probably the point that can best be dra^\-n from the comments of the hundreds of public men who have be­come enthusiastic about Notre Dame is the ine.xplicability of the attitude of Notre Dame's own graduates and students. The only gauge of interest is continued contact after lea\Tng the University. Judging by the Associa­tion records, fewer than half care whether or not the University con­tinues to exist. The above remarks were not made by these men because they were football fans. They knew Notre Dame as Notre Dame should be known now. And most of them knew it through Notre Dame alumni. An­other object lesson. A half-formed Alumni Association means a half-formed public opinion, at best. 
Notre Dame thrives on investiga­tion. There is so much at the Uni­versity which escapes the passing visitor or the hit-and-miss questioner. Work that has covered generations and has taken more than a lifetime cannot be evident even to those men who have enjoyed a few years on the campus. 
-A.lumni are urged to inform them­.selves, as a matter of personal pride, and as a matter of beneficial Notre Dame publicity. A man is known by the company he keeps. -4. school is known by the company its alumni keep. Notre Dame graduates are equipped in everj' way, if they have followed the University's teachings, to enter the best company anj-where. To do so is an obligation to the alum­nus himself as well as to his school. 
New Commerce Instructor 

Victor A. Crecco, B.S., M.B.A., has been secured by the department of finance in the College of Commerce to teach courses in money and bank­ing, credit and foreign exchange, 
VICTOR A. CRECCO, B.S., M.B..A. 

corporation economics, and public 
utilitj' economics. 
3Ir. Crecco was graduated from Harvard in 1924 with a B.S. degree. He studied for two years at Harvard graduate school of business adminis­tration, receiving the degree M.B.A. 
From 1926 until 1928 he was con­nected with the depository and foreign analysis division of the First National Bank of Boston. .\t this time he also sei-ved as assistant ti-easurer of the Shawnault Credit Union. For the last two years he has been employed by Cluett Peabody and Company of Troy, New York. 
Mr. Crecco, formerly of Medford, Mass., is now living in South Bend. He will teach the class in money and banking for the remainder of the semester. Credit and foreign ex­change, corporation economics, and public utility economics are second semester courses. The last named course is being taught at the Uni­versity for the first time.— (The Scholastic.) 

Faculty Men at Convention 
Dean Thomas Konop, and Profes­sors Elton Bichter, William D. EoUi­son and William M. Cain were present at sessions of the Association of -American Law Schools meeting at Chicago on December 29, 30, and 31. 

O'Grady Addresses Scientists 
At an open meeting of the Acad­emy of Science, on December 15, Professor Daniel O'Grady of the phi­losophy department spoke to a group of three hundred students on "Ways of knowing." "People have, broadly speaking, four approaches to the interpretation of reality, namely: the artistic, religious, scientific, and philosophical," declared Professor O'Grady. Commenting on each of these four approaches, he pointed out that science finds its only permanence in its method, and warned that the tendency of scientists to encroach on fields outside their understanding is increasing. Science, together with religion and philosophy may be clas­sified as approaches to reality through "the head," that is, they are con­
cerned primarily with intellectual processes in contradistinction to art, which is essentially a matter of the heart. 
Concerning religion. Professor O'­Grady refuted the statement of Pro­fessor Einstein that religion is based on fear. Emotion may enter religion, but is not the essence of religion. Aesthetic values in religion are dis­tictly negligible compared to the pre­dominant intellectual factors. The purpose of art is to interpret active e.\perience. Turning to philosophy as an approach to reality. Professor O'Grady stated that philosophy is no subjective, intuitive, or appetitive process, but is fundamentally a matter of discursive reasoning. Phi­losophy is distinguished from science, in that it deals with reality itself while science considers phenomena. 
— (The Scholastic.) 
N. D. Men Featured 

Four Notre Dame men, Emil L. Telfel, editor-in-chief of the Scholas­tic; Ramon G. Smith, senior in the College of Commerce; Fans Cowart, freshman in the department of phys­ical education; Alfred E. Gall, senior in the College of Engineering, have been photographed for special pic­tures which will be used in featuring an automobile in a national campaign. This is the first time that a company has advertised directly to the collegi­ate class and photographs picturing college students from the leading uni­versities in this countrj- will be used in all magazines. 
January, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


Notre uame Receives Erskine Award 
Nation's Spo^-ts 

Writers Pick Notre Dame Football Team as Champions by Record Vote; Trophy Awarded in New York January Second. 

Notre Dame doesn't depend on its press agent to put it across. Two hundred and sixty-one sports writers of the United States cast their hats into the journalistic ring as volunteer champions of the Notre Dame team for national honors. Col. W. 0. Mc-Geehan, New York sports writer par excellence, head of the committee of experts, stated this year that the sys­tem, established through the efforts of Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation, chair­man of the Board of Lay Trustees of Notre Dame, and prominent sports­man, is ideal for selecting a national champion. 
As is probably familiar to all Notre Dame alumni, the award consists of a beautiful trophy for the team, a highly embossed scroll for the coach of the team and for the same har­rassed individual, the more substan­tial reward of a Studebaker ear. While K. K. Rockne is probably com­mencing to worry about garage space, for the average coach this idea would be more proportionately ideal. 
At a ceremony on the famous steps of the City Hall in New York City on January 2, a triple pass behind the Mayor Walker line from the Mayor to Hugh O'Donnell, president of the Notre Dame club of New York, to Carideo, AH-American quarterback, brought the second Erskine trophy into the University's possession. The same ceremony brought the second gratis Studebaker into the Rockne stables, and the second scroll into the Rockne archives. 
Here's how: 
"Notre Dame wins a smashing vic­tory in the final balloting of the country's leading sports writers en­gaged in selecting the championship football team of 1930 for the Albert Russel Erskine award. For the sec­ond successive year, Rockne's team captures the national gridiron title, according to announcement by W. 0. McGeehan, chairman of the Erskine committee of award. 
"The preliminary ballot, which was completed two weeks ago, resulted in re-submitting to the jurors the names of Notre Dame, Southern California and Alabama for the final vote. This final vote tallies 261 for the South Bend team and five for Alabama. It includes the votes of the sporting writers who compose the jury, plus the votes of the 20 members of the award committee. Theodore Roose­velt's selection was cabled from Porto Rico by way of the war department in Washington. 
"The Notre Dame team will be en­titled to hold for another year the huge silver cup which is the emblem of victory. 
"The balloting affords interesting comparisons with that of 1929. The final vote of last year showed Notre Dame leading with 179, Pittsburgh second with 41, and Purdue third with two votes. This year neither Pitt nor Purdue figured in the selection, and the Irish lead was so great that there was no third place team at all. 
"Analysis of the votes by states shows an almost unanimous and thoroughly nation-wide conviction that Notre Dame deserves the title. The five dissenting votes came from Alabama, Tennessee, New Mexico, Illinois and Mississippi, one from each state. 
"It is interesting to note the change in the rating of the runner-up teams in the two ballots taken. In the pre­liminary ballot, taken before the Notre Dame-Southem California game was played, the Trojans were . slightly ahead of Alabama in the contest for second place. After the smashing 27-0 Irish victory, however, the Trojans dropped completely out of the running in the final voting. 
"The following table, based on the 
returns in the preliminary balloting, show just what teams wei-e given consideration by the jury, and to what extent some were considered. (First place votes counted five points. 
ALBERT RUSSEL ERSKINE 
The Donor 
second place three, and third place 
one.)  
1st  2nd  3d  
place  place  place Total  
Notre Dame  200  25  2  1.077  
Southern  California.  14  75  41  336  
Alabama  9  61  80  SOS  
WashinBton State.'..  3  4S  45  207  
Northwestern  0  14  39  81  
Utah  2  0  4  14  
Army  0  1  7  10  
Colgate  0  1  1  4  
Dartmouth  0  1  1  4  
West.  Maryland  0  1  0  3  
Fordham  0  0  2  2  
Tulane  0  0  2  2  
Michigan  0  0  1  1  
Tennessee  0  0  1  1  
Texas  0  0  1  1  
St. Mary's (Calif.)..  0  0  1  1  
Totals  228  228  228  2.052  

K. of C. Honor Members 
Frank Carideo, Bert Metzger, Tom Kassis, and Richard Donoghue, mem­bers of the 1930 national champion­ship football team will be given in­signia bearing the legend of Notre Dame council of the Knights of Co­lumbus, of which they are members, according to an announcement made by Grand Knight Louis Buckley re­cently. 
Further announcements were that degrees would be administered to a class in the first week of February. 

Lay Retreat Meeting 
Saturday and Sunday, December 13 and 14, a meeting of the lay secre­taries and representatives of districts identified with the Catholic laymen's retreat met at the University under the leadership of the Rev. Thomas Kearney, C.S.C., director of lay re­treats. George Alter of Fort Wayne, state chairman for the Khights of Columbus, fostering the lay retreat movement in Indiana, was also one of the three special lay secretaries named who attended. .The others were: Paul Just of Indianapolis and John Dooley of Chicago. 
Districts represented included Hun­tington, Logansport, Lafayette, Mun­cie, Elkhart, Gary, Hammond, Rich­mond, Terre Haute, Evansville, and Vincennes. The meeting was prepar­atorj' for the annual retreat to be held in August at Notre Dame. 
The first session opened at 3:00 o'clock Saturday afternoon, Dec. 13th. Dinner was served the assembly at 
0:30 p. m. in the lay faculty dining room of the University dining hall. There was a round-table discussion of affairs pertinent to the retreat in the evening. 
Sunday morning Father Kearney celbrated Mass for the intention of the lay retreat at the log chapel near the mission house, the retreat secre­taries and representatives attending. The second business session was at 
9:00 a. m. Sunday and following ad­journment there was a luncheon at 
12:30 o'clock. 

Campus K. of C. Charities 
The largest amount of old clothes for the poor ever collected on the campus came in from the pre-Christ­mas campaign of the Knights of Columbus, according to the Reverend Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C, pastor of Sacred Heart church. 
"And all in all they came in very handy," said Father Finnegan. "Some children were fitted out who had no clothes at all, and some men were clothed, enabling them to go out and look for work." 
The sweaters given proved to be the most usable, although odd vests, too, served a purpose, covering large spaces in some small boys' trousers. 
The ?100 donated by the Notre Dame Council of the Knights went to furnish baskets of food to poor fam­ilies. Altogether 85 baskets were given out by Sacred Heart parish, whose Welfare league worked in con­junction with other charity organiza­tions of South Bend. 

Laymen Form New Club 
Law teachers in the College of Arts and Letters at the University are forming a club, which has as its pur­pose the organizing of an intellectual and cultural, rather than a merely social group. 
The first meeting of the unit was planned for Jan. 13, in the faculty dining room. More detailed purposes and ideals of the club were to be ex­plained and discussed, and other mat­ters relative to the organization of the group to be considered. 
Papers will be presented at each of the. meetings in the future, and a discussion of each one will follow the presentation. 
R. W. Ranch, Thomas Madden, '27, Frank Moran, '27, Daniel O'Grady are members of the faculty in charge. 

Bill Sullivan Stars 
While the majority of the students were enjoying Christmas vacation at home, there was one who was carry­ing the name of Notre Dame to the vicinity of Panama and Cuba. This young man was none other than Bill Sullivan of Walsh hall, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. Sullivan was chosen to represent Notre Dame on the College Humor all-star base­ball team, composed of the men from various colleges and universities, who in the opinion of the athletic author­ities of the school, was considered the outstanding player on his nine last season. Bill played first base for the All-Stars and besides giving a classy exhibition of fielding around the in­itial sack, he clouted a circuit blow in the final game of the three game series. The first game, which was played at Panama, was won by the All-Stars, as were the other two. The score of the initial contest was 4-2. The remaining games played with the Cuban Telephone Company team, re­sulted in 3-2, and 13-4 victories for the collegians. 


Italian Consul to Be Guest 
S. A. Bontempo, president of the Italian club, has called a meeting for Monday night, January 12, to discuss plans for a banquet to be held some­time in the near future for the Italian consul from Chicago. 
Announcements concerning the com­mittees in charge of the affair will be made at this meeting. No definite date has been set as yet, although the banquet will probably be held within the next two weeks. 

January, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
)lllltttlltiii))tliltlllttllllllllll •llttlltlllltllllllllHllHllltlHMtMllMliiiiiMIIIHUIfl*! 



EDITORIAL^ 

m.. 
THE ERSKINE TROPHY 
It seems peculiarly fitting, though a bit selfish perhaps, to rejoice in the fact that the Erskine trophy, that three-way award given annually to the championship football . team and its coach by the eminent American sportsman, Albert Eussel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Cor­poration of America, and, more intimately, chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, should come again to Notre Dame, so close in sentiment and geography to Mr. Erskine himself. 
There is no prejudice in the coincidence. Two hundred and sixty-five highly qualified sports writers of the nation select the recipient. The team has received, for the second time in as many awards, the beautiful trophy. Mr. Eockne has received, for the second time, a beautiful scroll. And he has received, for the second time, a beau­tiful Studebaker car. 
The award links Notre Dame and South Bend in a closer bond through the sportsmanship and generosity of Mr. Erskine, one of South Bend's leading citizens, one of Notre Dame's gi-eatest friends. It keeps alive in Notre Dame history the long familiar and respected name of Studebaker. The ALUMNUS voices the horribly un-' orthodox wish that Mr. Eockne and his teams may so continue that each member of the squad, by 1940, will have one of Eock's surplus Studebakers. 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
Coloring the news is not outside the editorial policy of this publication, contrary to Doctor Cooney's patient teachings. In fact, so editorialized are most of the non-contributed articles that the Editorial page usually reads little differently. But because it is one Notre Dame activity that cannot be overemphasized, we mention again Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Universal Notre Dame Night is primarily a present thing. This Night is the Night to plan for, to consider, to put across. This brief editorial merely wishes in pass­ing to remember those pioneers of the fii-st Notre Dame Night—April 24, 1924. There was that splendid sentence upon which the idea of the Night was predicated—"Notre Dame's traditions are her men and our measure of a man is his devotion to Notre Dame." 
There was John Neeson, '03, Philadelphia, president of the .Association; Al Eyan, '20, first lay Alumni Secretary and Editor of the ALUMNUS; Eev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, '03, president of the University; A. E. Erskine, who on that Night first publicly outlined the work of the Board of Lay Trustees; K. K. Eockne, who gave one of his famous addresses that it seems ought to be the gospel of collegiate athletics; Dr. Neill in Washington, Spalding Slevin in Peoria, the big four in Eochester, N. Y., at the 
>••" •••• ••• -. • ••••••••E 
time (Flynn, Guppy, O'Connor and Tiemey), Dan O'Con­nor in Chicago, Joseph D. Sinnott in Seattle, John F. Shea in Boston, John Balfe in New York City, Chauncey Yockey in Milwaukee, the late William P. McPhee in Denver, and a host of others whose names have continued in the active files of the Association. 
And, with all due honor to those pioneers, albeit a bit regretfully from the standpoint of progress, there was as much genuine spirit on that first Night as there has ever been since. Some of those pioneer Clubs have subsided. Some of those active men have retired into distressing obscurity. Opportunities are greater now than ever. Let April 20, 1931, recapture everything that that first Night had, and add to it the things that can be added—^more members, more publicity, radio, music, speeches, dinners, smokers, Living Endo^vment, the Club Council at Com­mencement, and so far, far into the Night. 

STUDENT RELATIONS 
Several unfortunate incidents arising from misunder­standings between the Local Alumni Clubs and similar geographical undergraduate units have brought this par­ticular phase of activity to the attention of the Alumni Ofiice. 
Notre Dame has increased in enrollment to the point where several of these units on the campus have grreater numerical strength than what might be termed the parent organizations. Increased restriction of these groups by the University and student governments has also aided their internal development. They are most creditable organizations and can be invaluable preparation for active, informed members of the Alumni Clubs as their members leave Notre Dame and go into the various Club territories. 
Usually the difficulty has arisen from plans made by the respective organizations without mutual consultation. One Local Club has reacted to such an involved instance by appointing a committee on student relations, a step which can be recommended to all the Alumni Clubs. 
The Alumni Clubs are looked to for leadership. Age of the Individuals and experience with organization argue toward this responsibility. Student opinion is unfor­tunately prone to follow the current trend of suspicion and iconoclasm, so far as alumni are concerned. There is so little complimentary material about alumni except in our own publications, and even there we must harp on our own faults. Usually, however, Notre Dame students reflect their training. If approachedin a friendly fashion, if shown the difficulties and convinced of the rightness of the other side (nor are the students always wrong), they are willing to co-operate. In this approach the Alumni Clubs must lead. The Alumni Office is confident that the Clubs will act accordingly. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS Januarij, 1931 

Alumni Can Receive Religious Bulletin 
Through the indefatigability of the Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, pre­fect of Religion of the University, Notre Dame alumni may, upon re­quest, be placed upon the mailing list of his office for receipt of the daily 
Religions Bulletin. 
This Bulletin, stimulating and re­flecting Religion on the Notre Dame campus, and e\idencing the genius of the tireless Prefect, has become the criterion of religious activity on the campuses of the Catholic colleges of America. Daily Communion at Notre Dame is one of the wonders of the modern Catholic world. Much of its success lies in the daily editions of the Bulletin. 
Prayers for sick and deceased alum­ni appear almost daily on the Bulle­tin. Father O'Hara has a contact with the alumni that brings into the Alumni Office the deadly sin of envy-
But it is with a i-eal sense of a step toward that ideal contact in after life between a college and its alumni, probably the biggest step in such re­
N. D. In Beaux Art Mentions In a recent competition held by the Beaux -Arts Institute of Design in New York, E. Bisceglia, L. K. Chreist and L. J. Stitt received mentions while R. P. Bedan, P. P. Chuey, F. D. Heath, R. H. Heitger, and Paul Rig­ali received half mention. All of these men are students in the depart­ment of Architecture here. The sub­ject designed by the contestants was an entrance to a museum. 
Out of six designs submitted for a concert hall in Class A competition, 
J. P. Farrell received a mention, while 
J. H. Hanson, A. G. Patrick and F. R. West received half mentions. 
N. D. Play at Yale "This Victory," a full length play by Basil Rauch, will be produced soon by the Yale University theatre. Mr. Rauch, a graduate of Notre Dame in the class of 1929, wrote this play in Professor George Pierce Baker's ad­vanced playwriting class. Because of the experimental nature of the play, it will be produced before a special audience of students, faculty and in­\'ited guests, who will submit written criticisms. The production will be 
directed by Professor Alexander Dean. Mr. Eauch is a brother of Professor 
lations for a Catholic college, that the ALUMNUS offers the Bulletin to alumni, through the co-operation of 
,^ 

c i^^ A i^dilfe^ifll 
F^-^ffi ~ -&>--<^g0i|k 9r • ';^ • HBltnUi^ar H 
REV. JOHX F. O'HARA, C.S.C, '11 
Editor of the Bulletin 
Rufus W. Rauch of the English de­partment. As an undergraduate, he was the winner of the Mitchell Mem­orial award for playwriting. The Midland has accepted several of his shoi-t stories for publication, one of which was awarded an honorable men­tion by Mr. Edward J. O'Brien in his listing of the best short stories of 
1929. 
Athletes Honored 
The Veteran Athletes of Philadel­phia, who each year single out what they consider to be the most outstand­ing performances in the world of sport, have picked Frank Carideo, Notre Dame's two-time All-American quarterback, as the best football play­er of the 1930 season. The Notre Dame team was also chosen national champion and will be awarded the Bonniwell trophy in recognition of the honor. 
Two other awards in the realm of football were made to Leonard Maca­luso, Colgate university fullback, as high scorer of the nation, and to the Colgate team as the foremost team of the east. 
All trophies and awards will be pre­sented at the annual dinner of the organization to be held on January 31. 
Father O'Hara and the kindness of the University. 
Applications for the Bulletin should be mailed to James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Alumni are familiar with the com­prehensive and significant Religion.^ Surveu published annually by Father O'Hara, which has been sent to Notre Dame men everywhere and which has attracted national attention. The Survei/ is the outgrowth of the Bulle­tin, and, a handicap common to con­densed versions of anything, misses a great deal of the personality that Father O'Hara puts into his Bulletin, which accounts to probably the gr-eat­est degree for the wholesome militant Catholicity of the campus, that Cath­olicity that proved so impressive to 
G. K. Chesterton. Names of alumni will be placed on the Bulletin mailing list as soon as they are received in the Alumni Office. While the Bulletin is of course pre­pared for students on the campus, it 
possesses interest and benefit for any readers, particularly alumni. 
Concert Orchestra at N. D. 
A concert orchestra is to be or­ganized on the campus in the near future, according to Joseph J. Casa­santa, head of the department of music. Its purpose will be to satisfy a self evident need—that of bringing the works of classical composers to the campus through the medium of the orchestra. It furthermore will aim to develop such individual talent as may be found on the campus, and for this reason anyone who can play any orchestral instrument such as the 
•\-iolin, cello, string bass, flute, etc., is urged to report for the first i-ehearsal in the band room of Washington hall on Tuesday, January 13. 
Conley to Coach 
-Announcement was made in Phila­delphia early this month that Tom Conley, captain of Notre Dame's 1930 national champions, has accepted a contract to coach football at La Salle college of that city, next fall. La-Salle is a new college, having been opened only last February and next season will be its first on the grid­iron. Conley's home is in Philadel­phia. 

Jamtary, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
New Requirements 
Reflect Academic 
Advancement 
University Institutes Several Changes Involving Credits and Degrees; No More Fehniary Graduates After This Year. 
dent has passing grades. The de­tails are explained in a bulletin as follows: 

"The student who has passed in all the hours and courses required for graduation in his particular college but has failed on the qualitative av­erage of 77% will be allowed one or two extra semesters in which to raise his average to the requirement, tak­ing in the average all the courses in which he has the passing grades. Throughout the e.xtra time he must carrj' at least fifteen hours of work, in courses approved by the Dean of his College. He ma3' not repeat any course for which he already has a
REV. J. L. CARRICO, C.S.C, '03 Director of Studies passing grade. K at the end of his second extra semester he has not at­Announcement from the, office of tained the average of 77% for all Rev. J. L. Carrico, CS.C, '03, Direc­the courses passed, he is to be perma­tor of Studies of the University, bring nently dropped from the University. in no uncertain terms the policy of (In the averaging of the record of academic development that the Uni­a student for honors in graduation versity is pursuing. the grades in all the college courses for which the student has registered, Outstanding, from the student view­whether they be passing grades or point, is the raising of the general not, will be taken.)" average requirements for a bachelor's degree from the previous 70%. to Another significant decree of the 779?: in the courses in which the stu­Universitv Council, not hitherto set 
BEV. C. L. O'DoNNEix, C.S.C., '06 
President of the University 

forth in the clarified fashion of print, states: 
"No correspondence or extension credits from any school are accepted toward any degree conferred by the University of Notre Dame." 
Februai-y (between semester) alum­ni, pass from University history after the present year with the following sentence: 
"After the present school year de­grees will be conferred by the Univer­sity only at the public commence­ments, in June and in August." 
It is interesting to note that these developments, which are vital and distinctly tending toward academic excellence and high scholarship, were announced in a regular Bulletin from the Director of Studies. As usual, there is nothing spectacular about the scholastic activities. Nevertheless, and as usual, they continue to lead the general development of Notre Dame as one of the best as well as the more prominent Catholic colleges. 


loo Late to Classify 

(Ed. Note: Following are a number of stories which arrived at the Office after the 31 pages of the ALUMNUS were safe in the forms of the printer. Deadline, once more, is the fifth of the month of issue, if any st>-le in make-up or balance in appearance is to be achieved. Of course, news is always squeezed in at the last pos­sible minute, to avoid the five or six weeks delay that follow its omission, but it usually gives an unhealthy shaking up to the typography. The Class and Club Secretaries can be particularly helpful if they will remit early.) 
Tri-Cities Club Meets 

Dear Jim: 
Here is some information of our 

newly revived Tri-Cities Notre Dame 
Club which came to life December 18, 
1930 after its Rip Van Winkle-like 
sleep since Easter time. 
We had our annual election of of­

ficers December 19th and Annual 
meeting at the Blackhawk Hotel, 
Davenport, la. We had a nice feed 
et cetera, and there were no fights, in 
fact the Christmas spirit seemed to 
prevail. Harmony was in her highest 
reign. The enclosed clippings will 
give you the information in regard to 
the election of officers. Please see 
that the form is changed among the 
Alumni Clubs. 
On December 30th 1930 we had our 

Christmas dinner dance at the Hotel 
LeClaire Winter Garden. About 50 
people were present and if they did 
not have a good time the fault was 
theirs. Mr. Robert J. Van Lent is 
Chairman of our Social Committee. 
The following out of town guests 
were present: 
Charles Cash, '26, of Anamosa, la., James Connery, '28, of New York City, formerly of Anamosa, la. 
Present students at Notre Dame were present as follows: Joseph Mc­Cabe of Boston, Mass. (Ill not for­get him as he had my girl at his dinner party as a result of our mix­ing everyone up). Vance Uhlemeyer of Rock Island, HI. Joseph Rapine of Rock Island, 111., Joseph Tussant of Utica, N. Y. and M. S. Murphy of Rock Island, HI. 
The party was a success because of the eff"orts of Chairman Robert Van Lent and Richard Swift, President of the Club along with the Social Com­mittee. 
We are planning on an informal 
get-together this month and a dinner 

party in February. We were disap­
pointed in the absence of a delega­
tion from Dubuque, Muscatine and 
Clinton, Iowa, who were all invited to 
our party. 
The following clipping gives the 

details of the election of Tri-Cities 
officers: 
Attorney R. B. Swift of Smith & 

Swift was elected president of the 
Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities 
at the annual meeting held at the 
Blackhawk hotel Thursday, Dec. 18. 
Francis ICing of East Moline was 
made first vice-president, Leo J. Her­
bert of Rock Island, second vice-presi­
dent and Ralph Coryn of Moline 
treasurer. Harry M. McCullough of 
Davenport was re-elected secretary. 
An entertainment committee con­sisting of Robert J. Van Lent, Elmer Besten and Leo Heringer of Daven­port, George Uhlmeyer and Hayes Murphy of Rock Island and Charles SoUo of Moline was named. A dinner dance will be held at the Le Claire hotel in Moline December 30. 
Joe Savoldi, former Notre Dame fullback, gave a brief talk on the difference between college and pro­fessional football. Harry M. McCul­lough, the secretary, gave a report on the meeting of alumni club repre­sentatives held at Notre Dame Uni­versitv last May. 

Mr. Rockne's Health 

The ALUMNUS is pleased to re­port that K. K. Rockne, '14, passed through his examinations at Mayo's with the necessary average for being sent out into the world. He was warned against over-exertion. Alum­ni are asked to be considerate of Rock. His health is good, but its con­tinued goodness depends upon easing of the terrific strain of the past few years. 
In all fairness. Rock has been bet­ter about addressing alumni groups in the various parts of the country than any other University represent­ative. Now, such demands on his time and energy are fraught with real danger. They are personally embarrassing to Rock. He has offers which involve considerable remunera­tion for speaking. These, if his health permits, he owes it to himself to accept. Other appearances in line with his profession and his position at the University practically dictate his acceptance. More than these threaten his well-being. But as an alumnus and an interested one. Rock dislikes to refuse an invitation from alumni. Hence the request to alum­ni to forego the unquestioned pleas­ure of hearing Rock, until there is no longer danger of a return of his re­cent malady. 

Faculty Organization 

Inasmuch as the ALUMNUS is de­layed a bit, the following late item confirms and elaborates a tentative announcement of the formation of a group of Arts and Letters faculty in a cultural and intellectual society, as distinct from the present Lay Faculty organization which is on a general plane and more or less social. 
At the organization dinner in the Lay Faculty dining room on the eve­ning of January 13, Francis Moran, '27, assistant professor of English, was elected president of the new group. William E. Farrell, M.A. '27, professor of history was elected vice-president. William H. Downey, M.A. '28, assistant professor of economics was elected secretary, and Pedro De-Landero, '11, professor of modem lan­guages, was chosen treasurer. 
President Moran appointed a com­mittee on constitution and by-laws consisting of George Wack, '23, as­sociate professor of German, Camille McCole, M.A. '27, assistant professor of English, Daniel O'Grady, assistant professor of philosophy, and the pres­ident. 
As stated in the original, tentative announcement the purpose of the as­sociation is the presentation of papers and the discussion of cultural and in­tellectual subjects. Discussion at the first meeting extended to considera­tion of possibilities of including mem­bers of the faculties of some of the other Colleges of the University. No action was taken. 

Judge Joseph Smith 

Cleveland papers, of Dec. 23, car­ried the news of the appointment, by Gov. Myers Cooper of Ohio, of Jo­seph P. Smith, Ph.B. '14, LL.B. '16, to the municipal bench in the City of Cleveland. His was one of four ap­pointments from a field of more than 100 candidates. He had the endorse­ment of the Cleveland Bar Associa­tion. 
Judge" Smith has held city offices in Cleveland for the last six years, acting as chief police prosecutor for one year. Since then he has been in the city law department and was the ranldng senior assistant city law di­rector until receiving his appoint­ment. Law Director Harold Burton said his departure would leave an im­portant position to be filled. Judge Smith has handled appropriation suits for both the city and the school board and also has dealt with annexations. 
The new Judge is 38 years old and lives at 355 Dalwood Drive. He has six children, ranging in age from 5 to 12, including one set of twins. 
January, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Tommy Yarr 1931 Football Giptain 
Taking advantage of a delay in this edition, the ALUMNUS is pleased to announce the election of Thomas Yarr, Dabob, Washington, College of Arts and Letters, two years center 
^^^'^v^-i-' • 
^ : ^ M :•••'•
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^P! 
— / • .::••.••;-:
te-fi'v:-;­
^S^I^H^^ 
*<•,:;:?•-. 


^^^^^^^^^^^^«^^^H 
THOMAS YASR 
1931 Football Captain-Elect 

on the varsity squad, as captain of 
the Notre Dame football season for 
the season of 1931. 
The election took place at the an­nual football squad banquet in the ' University Dining Halls on the eve­ning of January 14. Alvin Culver, Wilmette, 111., a Commerce student, was the other candidate nominated by the squad in the preliminary ballot. Culver was varsity tackle this past season and was termed by Eockne the "most underrated lineman in the country." 
Yarr comes from the vicinity of Port To^vnsend and reflects a great deal of the enthusiasm of E. Morris Starrett, '21, "dean of football fans," who has followed Tommy's career at Notre Dame with all the keenness and enthusiasm accumulated in thou­sands of miles of travel with .Notre Dame teams from 1916 on. Morrie and Tommy's dad spent several weeks at Notre Dame this fall, and the various Starrett enterprises in the Northwest will probably suffer a few days neglect during the celebration there after this election. 
Tommy's ancestry includes the In­dian race. Rockne, who was toast­master, stated that it didn't make any difference at Notre Dame whether a boy's ancestors were immigrants on the Mayflower, or whether as Will Rogers had said, like Tommy's fore­fathers, they met the Mayflower when it landed. The new captain is a quiet, business-like boy, who came into a tough spot this year to fill the four shoes left vacant by the graduation of Tim Moynihan and Joe Nash. Tommy also had the famous long pass in the 1929 Northwestern game to mislead some of his critics. His performances in 1930 was no small part of the answer to the champion­ship. His election is popular with the team, and cannot help but please the legion followers of Notre Dame. 
Tim Galvin, '16, famous alumni orator, was on hand to express the pleasure of the Alumni Association in welcoming at the end of this year the fifteen senior members of the squad who finished their football careers. 
Rt. Rev. George J. Finnigan, C.S.C, D.D., '11, Bishop of Helena, Montana, was one of the interested spectators and made a brief but effective talk to the boys. 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, spoke, also briefly, in view, he said, of his several appearances before audiences which had included the team. He re­peated his conviction that "Notre Dame football is all right." 
The coaching staff, Bill Jones, JIanny Vezie, Ike Voedisch, Jack Chevigny and Hunk Anderson, spoke in turn. Hunk's famous "111 do the best we can," was repeated in con­nection with the 1931 team, but, as Rock commented, it was given with a lot more poise than Hunk possessed with its original utterance in 1919. 
Dan Halpin, Joe Lauerman and Jack Saunders, the efficient and im­portant senior managers of the team of 1930, spoke. 
The average in the field of oratory seemed to be higher among the mem­bers of the squad than in previous years. Perhaps championships have a polishing effect, with the constant limelight and the sound pictures. 
Forty-two gold footballs were awarded to members of the team, managers and coaches. . 
The banquet was closed by Notre Dame's famous favorite closer, War­ren Brown, sports editor of the Chi­cago Herald-Examiner, who. in hi= customary style, landed the party safely after its oratorical flight. 
(The Editor felt that much of the customary sadness that has accom­panied the parting of teammates in former years was missing, due large­ly to the frequent reimion of the boys in coaches meetings and charity games.) 
AL CULVER 
The other nominee 

Monograms awarded for 1930 foot­
ball went to: Left Ends—Kosky, O'Brien, Host. Left Tackles—Culver, Hoffman. Left Guards—Kassis, Greeney, Har­
ris. Centers—Yarr, Rogers, Butler. 
Right  Guards  — Metzger,  Terlaak,  
Pierce.  
Right  Tackles  — Kurth, Donoghue,  

McManmon. 
Right Ends—Conley, Vlk, Mahoney. 
Quarterbacks — Carideo, Jaskwich,; Cronin. Left Halfbacks — Schwartz, Koken, 
B. Leahy, Lukats. Right Halfbacks — Brill, O'Connor, Kaplan. Fullbacks—^Jlullins, Howard, Han­ley. 
ilanagers — Saunders, Lauerman, Halpin. 
Prom Invites Alumni 

John J. Collins, Cleveland, Ohio, general chairman of the Junior Prom of 1931, extends an invitation to alumni to attend the Prom this year. Tickets are five dollars each and may be secured through Mr. Collins, whose address is Sorin Hall. The date is Friday, February 13. 
Van Dyke » Reni » Paolo Veronese De Matteis »
» Kosa » roussin 
rne 
Art at Not 
# 
DAVID THE 
SUEPIIERD: 

S]ianinh School. Thin irondcrftil piftnrr. of A'liij/ David in paititid III the style of liibcra. The eyrs 
arc rfrcoHii/ and 
the jrt-blaci: hair long and Jloiriui/. The iniineiilar hudij is irr// drairu and ritihtly placrd o» the canras. Thr different lints of blade throusthout the paintint/ arc offset btj the jlrsh color and a hit of red drapery in the lower part of the pictnre. The britsh­icorh is that of a 
master. 
# 

A
RT has always found an ideal home at Notre Dame. The beautiful galleries in the University Library are among the leading collections of art in America, and are outstanding among the col­lections of Chi-i.stian art in particular. It is per­tinent to mention here the comment of Dom Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., an artist of today, whose splendid knowledge and work have been of in­valuable aid to the preservation and progress of the Notre Dame galleries— 
"Religious painting has always been the su­preme test of real art. Even in America such men as La Farge, Sargent, Blashfield and others have tried their hand at it." 
Religion in art, like religion in life, can only glorify whatever other talent may abide. 
Formal and brief historj' of the Notre Dame galleries is contained in the following excerpts from the Catalogue of the collection: 
"From the early days of Notre Dame priests and professors brought to the University various works of art until there had been acquired a collection of twenty-five canvases by notable painters, fourteen original drawings, and three pieces of bronze. These works were the nucleus of the present collection. 
"In 1917 the Rev. John Cavanaugh. C.S.C.. then president of the University, obtained from Msgr. Marois, Vicar General of Quebec, Canada, one hundred and thirty-six paintings which he bought in Rome from the noble Braschi family, kinsmen of Pope Pius VI. Some of these pictures be­longed at one time to Cardinal Fesch, an uncle of Napoleon I, other's to the Capuchin monks of Benevento, and the rest to the Sciarra-Colonna 
CRUCIFIXIOX: Gorman hanijs lifeless from a tall cross, family seen around the upper ]. riyht of the cross slaitds the Si'rr Ilcloved Disciple. The Blessed Vir a lottit deci*-hlue Dtatttle, with a It' John is clothed m green and red. of Jcnisalent nicnnced b>j Unhtninu. 
,1.; i f th, 
'"ii, ,1 
I;: * 
r Ui 1 th, 
1 Jannary, 1031 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 177 
V, rnet > Corregio » Fra Bartolomeo » Le Brun » Murillo » Tintoretto » Fouquieres Hf>^^^^^^^| 
<#• 

im 
TIIK.VAPOXXA KXTlinOSED: Paolo Vcrouitti: The Ma do ti u a, hoidhiii thf Infant JvAiix a n d .ttir­ruiindcd h>i matin a«i«7s. i"s .srattd on the clouds in upper cfuter of the paintinfi. In 
t h c loirvr half are the tiro {treat Apontles. Saints I'etrr a n d rani, a II d t leo ft rent doctors of the Church, Saints A u n u s t I H (• and Jerome. The composition a n d drau'iuji are stood, the color is lum­inous, the tech' nitptc excellent and t '' V fjeneral effect rerif decor-alive. The signa­ture I'aoli Caliari (culled Paolo Ver­onese) is in the longer rii/ht corner. 
•#> 

family. Seventy-four of these paintings were selected to adorn the walls of the galleries. 
"To enlarge the work and to make the collec­tion representative of the best in Christian art, Mr. Charles A. Wightman, LL.D., of Evanston, Illinois, a collector and a lover of the beautiful in art, donated in memorj' of his late wife, Cecilia, an addition of one hundred and eight masterpieces as a memorial of her lifelong devo­tion to her beloved Church. This addition made 
.*a»i<7. The body of Our Savior a total of two hundred and twenty-five works of il.'l is darlt. A Jarsie nitubits is art which fill more than four large rooms and f the body and cross. At the 
constitute what is called the Wightman Memorial 
Sin 'ii. Mother and at the tej't the 
Gallery." 

! Vir I;: clothed in a red dress and a tit r bine eeil over her head. St. rtd. I the hilly distance is tlic city 
Additional gifts from Mr. Wightman have since iiinu. necessitated the opening of a fifth room. Gallery E, with further beautiful examples of the finest art. 
The tragic fire of 1S79 was a blow to Notre Dame art. A Rubens and a Sarto were among the priceless treasures lost in the flames. 
To digress a bit further, all the art at the Uni­versity is not confined to the Galleries in the University Librarj'. 
Professor Stace in 1SS4 wrote the following description of the Columbian frescoes, which still decorate the corridors of the Administration Building: 
"On entering the main doors,-the visitor finds himself surrounded by frescoes illustrating the life of Columbus, the work of Luigi Gregori, an Italian artist, who has been occupied for many 
178 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS January, 19S1 
years past in decorating the interiors of various buildings here. In the vestibule the life-size, full-length fig­ure of Columbus and Queen Isabella, from authentic porti-aits, appear on the right and left—a fitting introduc­tion to the grand historic series which is to follow, and which begins in the hall itself, with Columbus begging his bread at the door of the monastery, whose truly noble inmates first recog­nized his worth, and brought his proj­ect before the notice of the queen. Opposite we see the departure of the cai-avels on their adventurous journey, with Columbus kneeling to receive the blessing of the friendly monk to whom he owed so much. Next to this is, pei-haps, the most striking picture of the series, though one of the small­est, representing the mutiny at sea, in which the crew are threatening the life of the great discoverer. The violence of the mutineers is made to 

tl 
-3 .=: 
a: 
5 -^ 
4^ 
in 

contrast admirably with the calm con­
fidence of Columbus. Opposite, land 
has been discovered, and the ring 
leaders of the mob are on their knees 
suing for pardon. Next a broad space 
is devoted to the scene at the landing, 
where the hero is planting the cross 
on the shore, surrounded by enthusias­
tic comrades and awe-stricken Indians. 
On the other side of the hall is the 
largest picture of all, showing Colum­
bus on his triumphant return, present­
ing the aborigines and productions of 
the new world to Ferdinand and 
Isabella, enthroned under a canopy 
erected in the open air, and surround­
ed by numerous court officials, and an 
apparently unlimited throng of spec­
tators. After this transitory scene of 
splendor we see another proof of for­
tune's inconstancy: Columbus in 
chains, the victim of successful treach­
ery, while two Indians, amazed at the 
perfidy of the white man, appear to 
be his only friends. Last scene of all 
we have his death, receiving the bless­ings of religion, his chains hanging by his bedside above the chart of his discoveries. With these last two paintings on either hand, we find our­selves at the rotunda, on whose pave­ment of tiles we may stand and gaze upward two hundred feet into the con­cavity of the dome, soon to be decor­ated with appropriate designs by the same talented artist. (Since Profes­sor Stace wrote this article the inner surface of the dome has been so dec­ollated by the hand of Gregori. The paintings were completed and the dome opened with appropriate services May 29, 1890. Bishop Keane was present, and a masterly oration was delivered by the Hon. William J. Ona­han, of Chicago. The figui-es are alle­gorical—Religion, Philosophy, Poetry, Law, Science.) 
"On the right-hand side, on enter­ing the hall through which we have passed, is the suite of apartments occupied by Pi-esident Walsh. In his reception room are to be found several gems of art, among others, a cruci­fixion, undoubtedly the work of Van­dyke, and a Titian, the subject being the daughter of Herodias, with the head of John the Baptist. On the left-hand side of the hall is the public parlor, often literally crowded, spa­cious as it is, with visitoi-s on exhibi­tion nights and during commencement week. , The room is decorated with portraits, chiefly those of former presidents of the University." 
For the benefit of Notre Dame alumni, particularly in reference to this calling attention to the center of Christian art at Notre Dame, the ALUMNUS feels that it is decidedly worth while to reprint the splendid outline of the relation of the Catholic 
Church to art, which was written by Father Gerrer as an Introduction to the Catalogue for the Galleries. The 
January, 1931 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
ALUMNUS is also indebted to the University Library for the use of the illustrations accompanying this fea­ture. 
"The Catholic Church mothered the fine arts since the dawn of Christian­ity. In the days of the Catacombs when she was forced to hide under­ground to worship God, long before the recognition of Christianity by Constantine, the soul of the Christian artist was impelled to give outward expression to his inward feelings; so he decorated the rough walls of tufa with pictures relating to the life of Christ and His Blessed Mother, or with symbolical and allegorical or­namentations calculated to elevate the mind of the worshipper to things supernatural an eternal. At that time pagan art was at its lowest ebb and although the Christian artist was forced by sheer necessity to make use of the antique art models then existing, he did so only in so far as they could serve his puropse. Thus out of universal ruin a new medium of expression gradually arose, which culminated at Constantinople after the freedom of the Church under Con­stantine in what is known as Byzan­tine art. 
"As soon as pagan persecutions ceased edifices were built in which to worship God in a worthy manner, and these buildings were decorated by craftsmen and artists eager to glori­fy God and His servants. Architects, masons, goldsmiths, workers in wood 
• and stained glass, sculptors and paint­ers, emulated each other and devoted their lives to the glorious work. The result was the wonderful galaxy of basilicas, churches, monasteries and other edifices preserved and gloried in as 'national monuments' by the European governments of today. In addition to this, such men as St. Am­brose, St. Gregory and others embel­lished the ritual and composed ele­gant music to beautify the services of the Church. 
"It was also in this era that illu­mination had its origin. The monk in his cell occupied his time copying the Bible, the Missal, and other books and manuscripts, which he adorned with beautiful colored ornamentations and pictures. In those days, centuries before the invention of the printing press, not many of the common people could read, and this was another rea­son for art in the Church. St. Greg­ory the Great said that the walls of the churches were decorated with pic­tures in order that those who were unable to read might at least be in­structed in the life of Christ and the mysteries of their faith by the paint­ings which they saw depicted on the walls. Byzantine art found its high­est expression in gorgeous mosaics to which it lends itself wonderfully well. Of all wall decorations mosaic is the 
grandest and most endurable. The innumerable bits of colored enamel or glass of which these pictures are composed present an uneven surface that causes the light to be broken up and produces an incredibly brilliant effect. 
"As Byzantine art developed rules were formed to govern the composi­tion of a picture. The drawing of the human figure was based on the rela­tion of its parts to squares, circles and triangles. The body was.length­
5-?i^|-§ 
2 ^
l«^ ^s­
=-o
r; -^ 
5 ^ £• ~ 
l|f?i i > 
s ~. ^ 2- t/3 
iiir 
=:2: 
ft] 
If illf!!­
=" s 15-11t
I i 1Ii 1 I 
§• 2-s-•s. 1 1 kj i 1 f r
1 1
2 
p^ zr-'H'
<• s "^ 
O 2 B-5 S=•
t s-
s •2> •2, a. i 
5 f 
s 2: 3. = 5 r-K ta 3' 
S. • SI 
2 2. ^. 
Pifif 
!i 
'Sir: 
3ili: 

ened; so were the hands and feet An effort was made to give the face a grave, dignified composure; accord­ingly its shape was narrow and oval and its color a greenish yellow; the eyes were large, the nose long and thin, the month small and pinched, and the hair was usually grey. Grad­ually Byzantine art became stiff; how­ever, the later artists acquired a more delicate execution and began to beau­tify its austere type with noble in­spirations; especially is this the case 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS Jaimarij, 1931 
#> 
TEN SAINTS: Russian Icon. Panel* ivith tsUvcr fra t» e. Thr t ico ro tcs of smallr Rtaiiding figurat a r r irondcrfully in.il jMiintift. 
#> 
The It a til c of each saint is give n i >i ( h c broicn baelcstround. Painted early in the thirteenth een­tiirtj. 
# 
with miniature painting, which long preserved many beautiful and expres­sive traces of the ancient spirit. When we consider the time and diffi­culties under which these early artists had to labor, we wonder at their success. 
"No sooner was the Church freed from the persecutions of the pagans than the incursions of the barbarians began. Goths, Vandals and Huns overran Southern Europe in hordes and had to be civilized. Christianized and educated. Furthermore the Icon­oclasts, even worse than the barbar­ians, went about w^aging war against art and destroying countless master­pieces. It is a miracle that Byzan­tine art survived at all under such circumstances. It not only survived but has continued as a real force down to our own time, and today John Sargent, Edwin Blashfield and others are decorating churches and public buildings in our own country with magnificent Byzantine murals. 
"There was a movement among the artists of Italy in the twelfth century to free themselves from set rujes. This departure from old methods manifested itself first in the activity 
of the sculptor who began in a crude way to create realistic statues, but it was not until the fifteenth century that the new birth of art called the Renaissance began. The transition from the Byzantine to modem art was so imperceptible that it would be impossible to name any one person as the father of the new art. The movement took place principally in Florence and Siena. The artist made an attempt to paint more pleasing forms, to portray action, and to ex­press motion. The saints w^ere paint­ed in rich surroundings of landscape and architecture, and they were rep­resented in the costumes of the day. While there was, as a consequence, a decided loss of purely religious im­port in the pictures produced, real life for the first time became the se­rious subject of art and was so glori­fied and elevated as to give lasting value in the realm of the beautiful. But the pioneers were still groping after perfection; not even the great Giotto can now impart unalloyed pleasure, however much we esteem him for his pure color, grand compo­sitions and the life and action he im­parted to his figures; for his men and 
women have strange eyes, square jaws, and monotonous draperies. Gradually, however, sacred themes were depicted in a more lifelike, realistic way, as we see in the work of Uccello, Masolino and Masaccio. 
"Under the last named master the transition is complete. He was the first painter to round out the form, modeling it by means of light and shade, making it agree with his clear­ly defined artistic intention. His ex­ample became the leading influence in all the art of the fifteenth century. Almost every master of that century down to Leonardo studied his works and learned from them. There was one gx'eat exception in Fra Angelico who continued painting wonderful masterpieces in the earlier style. He was preeminently the painter of the supei-natural. By nature raised above the common plane of life, he pene­ti'ated deeper into the realms of the blessed than any other artist; he was the noblest product of the mystic and adoring spirit of the Middle Ages. 
"When we consider the achieve­ments of the painters of the fifteenth century we are surprised to see how completely they cover the entire field 

January, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
of art. It would be difficult nowadays to paint a picture the prototype of which could not be found in some work of that time. 
"Following down to the beginning of the sixteenth century we come to Ghirlandajo, Botticelli and a gi-eat number of other masters who usher us into the High Renaissance, where we find such giants as Leonardo, Raphael, Michelangelo, Titian, Cor­reggio and a host of others in Italy, and in western Europe such masters a Durer, Holbein, Rubens, Velasquez and a multitude of others. These men were all children of Mother Church, and their greatest achievements were their religious works. They were not content to paint histoiy or nature but aspired to depict the supernatural, which has always been the supreme test of the highest art. 
"At times when we are in the pres­ence of certain persons it is not neces­sary to tell us that they are not good; we are sure of it; we are uneasy in their company and wish to avoid them. On the other hand, we are im-
Sylvester Featured 
An article concerning Notre Dame, entitled "The School Nobody Knows," has brought considerable journalistic prominence to Harry Sylvester, '20. The article appeared in the Brooklyn Eagle originally and was widely copied. AVhile it does not begin to e.xhaust the Notre Dame that the world ought to know, it demonstrates that the world is willing to listen, a point that is worth noting by other talented alumni. 
Which reminds the Editor that this is as good a place as any to say that 
J. P. McEvoy is reported to have made a very fine and constructive talk about the Notre Dame team as he met them on the California trip, in a radio address on January 12. Jlore later, if we hear of it. But is is another e.\ample of the broadening opportuni­ties for Notre Dame men to act for the University, and of the need for being informed for those opportunities when they arise. 
James Roy in Radio 
James Roy, '29, former national intercollegiate oratorical champion, now a student in the Harvard Law School, has become a member of the Shepherd Broadcasting Service as an announcer from Station WNAC, ac­cording to a recent announcement in the Boston Pilot. 
Mr. Roy has become both popular and prominent in speaking and debat­ing in Cambridge, partly through activities in the K. of C. and partly as a member of the East Cambridge Catholic Institute. 
pressed in an opposite way when we are in the presence of good persons. We love to be in their company, to commune with them. Goodness and kindness seem to flow out of them. In like manner goodness and kindness and sanctity must have shone from our Saviour and in lesser degree from His Blessed Mother and all His great seixants. It is just this supernatural quality which raises men above the ordinary that all great artists ti-ied to depict. They were not content to paint the common things of this world, but sought to poi'tray the spiritual, the ideal. Religious paint­ing has always been the supreme test of real art. Even in America such men as La Farge, Sargent, Blashfield and others have tried their hand at it. 
"No doubt the pictures that make up the Wightman Gallery have a his­toiy connected with them. Many were originally altar pieces, or decoi-ated the walls of a chapel or some religious home. Since then they have wandered far, some of them even coming into the possession of persons hostile to 
Nicholson Works Squad 
Coach John P. Nicholson has put his track men to work in earnest now that Christmas interruptions are over and the opening of the 1931 season is less than a month away. Men who had good dirt tracks available in their home towns were given assign­ments to be can-ied out during the holidays. These cases were so I'are, however, that the whole squad is hardly more than in the first stages of the difficult task of getting into con­dition for the first time this year. 
Practice so far has consisted of calisthenics and jogging. Hurdlers have been working for form, shot-putters to get the "feel" of the heavy ball rather than distance, and the sprinters have been trying out the stai'ting blocks once more. 
Freshman candidates have also been asked to report, and, as has been Coach Nicholson's custom in the past, will continue to work right along with the varsity. Freshman Coach "Spike" England will take charge of them after Nicholson has directed the calis­thenics and given the usual instruc­tions. 
Between 40 and 45 men have been reporting each night and many more are expected in the next few days. Track prospects, this year, are very good, and with a little co-opei-ation from the student body_ Coach Nichol­son should put out a better than average team.— {The Scholastic.) 
the Church, to persons who did not even know their meaning and criti­cized them in a way contrary to the spirit and purpose for which they were created. But now they are again in a Catholic atmosphere and will once more teach the beauties of the Catholic faith; they •mU lift up the mind to things higher and holier, for they are silent preachers of pene­trating sermons on faith and piety. An hour spent in the presence of these masterpieces in silent contemplation will prove a precious spiritual boon to many a person. 
"It is becoming that a gallery of Christian art should be located at Notre Dame University, -where the students may have an opportunity to study pictures and derive much bene­fit from them." 
The Kev. John Cavanaagh, C.S.C, former president of the University, and patron of art at Notre Dame, is in charge of the Galleries. Father Gerrer makes periodical visits to Notre Dame for the technical care of the collection. 
D. F. Kelly Honored 
D. F. Kelly, prominent Chicago merchant, recipient of an honorary 
LL.D. from the University in recog­nition of his intense Catholicity as a leader in the business world (1930), has been given the highest Papal honor, Knighthood in the Order of Malta. 
Mr. Kelly is president of the Fair Store, and a leader in Chicago civic affairs. 
A Bill by Any Other Name 
Is still a bill. Nevertheless Brother Aidan, C.S.C, thinks the following might swell the coughers, to mistreat an old phrase: 
Some pay their dues when due. Some do before they're due. Some never do. How do you do when your dues are due? 
Carideo to Purdue 
Announcement that Frank Carideo, Notre Dame's AU-American quarter­back, has signed an all-year contract as assistant football coach at Purdue university, was made known today by 
N. A. Kellogg, director of athletics. He will report next fall. 
The official annoimcement verified reports of recent weeks that Carideo would help Noble Kizer with the Pur­due team. Terms of the contract were not revealed. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1931 
ATHLETICS; 
..Q 

Official Schedule Is Announced 
Coach Knute K. Rockne, through the Publicity department, announced the official football schedule for the 1931 season early this week. The schedule, as had been previously in­timated, contains nine of the ten teams who opposed Notre Dame dur­ing the season just past. 
In carrying out his resolution to 

cut down on the length of future 
schedules after the "suicide" one of 
1930, Coach Rockne found it neces­
sary to drop one team. Southern 
Methodist was the one to be dropped. 
The contract with the Mustangs was 
but a one-year affair and they were 
therefore the ones who had to be left 
off. 
The season will be opened on Oc­tober 3 against the Hoosiers of In­diana with the game being played at Bloomington. The second game will probably be one of the best of the year. The Wildcats of Northwestern will be Notre Dame's guests at Sol­dier field in Chicago. The proceeds of this game, over a certain amount, will go to repay Northwestern the 5100,000 they advanced to Chicago charities this fall. 
This game is followed by two home games, with Drake and Pennsylvania, on October 19 and 26. Carnegie Tech will be met at Pittsburgh on October 31, and on the first Saturday of No­vember the Panthers of Pittsburgh will repay the visit of the Fighting Irish made to them this fall. 
The Naval academy will be met on November 14 with the Middies as hosts. Returning from the east, "Rock's" boys will be in for a week of hard work in preparation for a visit from Coach Howard Jones' Tro­jans of Southern California. This game will undoubtedly be the feature attraction of the season in the new Notre Dame stadium. 
The season is scheduled to be closed on November 28 with the Army offer­ing the opposition. The Cadets have met defeat at the hands of Notre Dame three times in a row now, and are about ready to see what can be done about it. The Yankee Stadium 1 Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh. | 
Q..  ••a  
THE SCHEDULE  f  
I  Oct. 3—  I  
I  Indiana  at Bloomington.  |  
1  Oct. 10—  I  
I  Northwestern at Chicago.  I  
I  Oct. 17—  I  
i  Drake here.  |  
I  Oct. 24—  j  
=  Pennsylvania here.  I  
I  Oct. 31—  I  

j Nov. 7— I 1 Pittsburgh here. I 
I Nov. 14— I i Navy at Annapolis. i 
I Nov. 21— I 1 Southern California here. I 
I Nov. 28— I 
I Army at New York. | 
B.. ..Q 
should be filled to capacity—as is al­ways the case when Notre Dame, plays the Army. 
Carideo Is Net Star 

With more than 11,000 enthusiasts jamming the Coliseum in Chicago, a picked team flaring the banners of Walsh hall of Notre Dame went down to defeat before the Knights of Columbus All-Stars of Chicago when a belated rally gave the Windy city team a four-point advantage to bring the score to 24-20 as the game ended. 
Frank Carideo was seen as the out­standing performer in the Notre Dame lineup. His shooting was in­strumental in giving his team a 9 to 6 lead at half time. As the all-American quarterback appeared on the floor clad in the scanty basketball attire the large crowd thundered a mighty ovation and cheered his every move throughout the game. 
Two other games between Catholic high schools of Chicago rounded out the program, the proceeds of which went to charity.—{The Scholastic.) 
Squad Sells Seals 

The majority of the people of this country will in a few months remem­ber the Notre Dame national cham­pions of 1930, merely as football play­ers, but the Anti-Tuberculosis League of Saint Joseph county will remember them as contributors to a worthy cause. For it was on Friday night, December 12, 1930, that the South Bend Tribune's broadcasting station WSBT auctioned off Christmas health seals for the League, bearing the sig­natures of Coach Rockne and his men. 
A sheet of seals inscribed by the entire squad of eighty-two men was sold for ?75. Another sheet of 100 seals, bearing the signatures of Coach Rockne and the first team netted §10. The sheet on which the autographs of the second team appeared was sold for ?3. Seekers of the signatures of the men on the third team also paid $3. 
The Christmas seals were on sale at Li'lingston's store. Many enthusi­astic fans called at the store to obtain the seals bearing the signature of their favorite player. Frank Carideo's autograph was much in demand by the South Bend public. 
The usual plan of auctioning was not used. Instead of awarding the Christmas seals to the highest bidder, the first bidder was rewarded with the sheet. 
"HUNK" ANDERSON SIGNS 
Heartley "Hunk" Anderson, line coach of the year, has signed a one-year contract to act in the capacity of assistant coach for the coming 1931 football season, it was announced by the Faculty Board in control of Ath­letics this week. Anderson was a star guard on early editions of Knute Rockne's football elevens, being a teammate of the immortal George Gipp. Following his graduation from Notre Dame he was line-coach at his Alma Mater. Last year after a brief spell at St. Louis university he re­turned to Notre Dame as assistant head-coach under "Rock." 

January, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
All-Stars Win and Lose. 
Echoes of the "fall of Troy" rang 

Resume of Basketball Games 
That combination that was worry­ing Coach Keogan early in the bas­ketball season seems, at the present ivriting, to have become less difficult. 
Pennsylvania, which did not do so well against Notre Dame in the Fall, passed up an opportunity to do some­thing about it, when the basketball team from that institution, on a dis­astrous western trip, permitted the Notre Dame five to compound a vic­torj- 31-19 on Dec. 19 in the Notre Dame gymnasium. Newbold and De-Cook, two Hoosier running true to the native basketball tradition, led the offensive that smothered the «s­itors. 
Illinois Wesleyan was another vic­tim of the successful Keogan renais­sance. On Dec. 30 the team, led by Newbold and Norb Crowe, a third star from the Hoosier firmament and the famous Crowe's Nest in Lafayette from which came Clem, Ed and Fran, defeated the Methodist five 24-17 on the Wesleyan fioox-. Crowe was re­turned from a guard berth in the 
• Penn game to forward and shared honors with Newbold for four baskets each. 
January 3, Northwestern over­looked an opportunity to wish Coach Keogan a Happy New Year by hand­ing the Notre Dame team a second defeat. But, to dig up an old one, it was a moral victory when aligned with the decisive early season N. TJ. triumph. The score 20-17, fails to tell the story of how Rieff, N. U. for­ward who scored 26 points single handed in the first game, was held scoreless until but three minutes re­mained to play and two N. D. men guarding him had been removed for their efficiency. The three baskets he scored in those last three minutes are the answer. The game was signifi­cant from the Notre Dame viewpoint for the opening up of Tommy Bums, Rochester N. Y. boy, at guard, and the return to basketball form of Jaskwhich, one of Rock's quarter­backs of promise, in a guard berth. 
The Ohio State game at Notre Dame on January 6 was probably the biggest thrill the spectators have had this season. Notre Dame was hit­ting the rim with regularity but not completing the arcs inside that magic circle. Ohio State, while getting scatered shnts, were counting them with distressingly regular swishes 

1930-31 BASKETBALL f j SCHEDULE I 
5 Dec. S—Notre Dame 26, Kalamszoo 15 = I Dec. 12—Northwestern 43. N. D. 29 = i Dec. 15—^Purdue 34, Notre Dame 22 = = Dec. 19—N. D. 31, Pennsylvania ID | = Dec. 30—N. D. 24, HI. AVesIcyan 17 | i Jan. 3—N. D. 17, Northwestern 20 E 1 Jan. 6—N. D. 27, Ohio State 24 1 5 Jan. 9—Notre Dame 29, Wabash 19 : = Jan. 13—^Jlarquette 23. Notre Dame 30 = E Jan. 17—Pennsylvania there i E Jan. 24—Pittsburgh here E E Jan. 31—Open E E Feb. 3—Indiana there S E Feb. 7—Pittsburgh there i i Feb. 13—Wabash here = E Feb. 21—Butler h:-re I 1 Feb. 2S—Army there 1 I 'Mar. 2—Syracuse there E E Mar. 6—jNIarquettc there E = Mar. 10—Butler there : = Mar. 14—Iowa there E 
B„ ..Q 
through the net. The score, by virtue of this arrangement, see-sawed in a nen-e-tingling series of lead shifts until the last five minutes. Norb Crowe came back into the game. A play was followed by time out and a huddle. It was like the old Parisien to Niemiec pass. Crowe led the at­tack that followed with two baskets and was joined with one each by De-Cook and Newbold. This Hoosier up­rising was too much for the Buckeye endurance and the final horn sounded 
(no more cannon, by the way) with Notre Dame leading 27-24. The horn mentioned above is loud and distinc­tive above all the noises of the gym, a tribute to the horn. It sounds like a compromise between what is pop­ularly called a "birdie" and George Keogan's side-line coaching voice, but it commands attention—and, if I may say so, how. Fesler, the Big Ten's prize athlete, was one of the drawing cards for the game, playing a nice back-guard's game. 
The most recent game at press time is the Wabash game. This game, when Hoosiers meet Hoosiers, is a more sound indication of the success of the Notre Dame team. More pow­er, therefore, to the victory for Notre Dame over the Little Giants 29-19. De Cook tossed seven baskets for far and away the high honors of the evening. 
Outstanding among the recent de­velopments in the Notre Dame five is the Baldwin-Bums combination at guard, leaving the scoring machinery in the hands of De Cook at center, and Newbold, Crowe and Gavin at forward. 
across the gridiron of the Los Angeles coliseum as a band of Notre Dame all-stars, led by the giant fullback, Joe Savoldi, took the measure of a West-South all-star team, 20-7, on Saturday, December 27. Sixty-five thousand spectators Avitnessed the game staged by the Elks' club of Los -A.ngeles for the benefit of California charities. 
The South Benders, captained by the ail-American quarterback, Frank Carideo, had little difficulty in dis­posing of the eleven led by Russ Saun­ders, former U. S. C. star. Savoldi scored first during the third minute of play on a brilliant dash of 56 yards, and again on a 34-yard jaunt near the end of the quarter. Carideo added both extra points. 
In the fourth quarter Savoldi added the final marker for the Rockets on a short plunge. Saunders scored the West-South touchdown on a long piss from .A.psit, and then added the extra point. 
Players who made the trip were: Carideo, Brill, Elder, Savoldi, Metz­ger, Kassis, McManmon, Cannon, Twomey, Parisien, Vezie, and Veo­disch, of Notre Dame, and Glen Harmeson of Purdue. The team was coached by Heartley "Hunk" -Ander­son, line coach at Notre Dame. 
Benny Friedman, and his New 

York Giants won a lop-sided victory 
over a Notre Dame ex-star team, led 
by the Four Horsemen, 22-0, in a 
charity game played in New York 
City, December 14. 
Friedman, all-American quarter­

back from Michigan, scored two of 
the Giants' touchdowns and added 
one extra point. 
The Notre Dame team was com­

posed chiefly of the members of the 
1924 national championship team, al­
though such later stars as Cannon, 
Twomey, Moynihan, Carideo, O'Con­
nor, Vezie and Elder got in the game. 

Track Reconstructed 

Work has been progressing quite satisfactorily the past few days on the reconstruction of the running track in the University gymnasium. The west end of the track is being raised in order that the curve may be banked. In the past, this part of the track has been considerably lower than the corresponding curve at the opposite end of the gym and has caused the runners much trouble due to the difference in bank. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS Jantiary, 1931 
H" 
B-­
AICRON 
"Dear Jim: 

"Some inquiry was made by you as to who succeeded Steve Wozniak, now studying (?) at the U. of Krakow, in the role of President of the local Alumni Club. The writer of this letter is, or was, elected Vice-Presi­dent, and perhaps should step up. 
"The active members of the Akron Club put on a formal dance at the .University Club and quite a few of the younger members of the alumni Club were present. They all managed to stay to the finish. 
"A stag party is scheduled for the 

17th of January at which time plans 
will be made as to what type of a 
get-together will be had on April 20. 
More later! 
Frank Steel." 
ARICANSAS 

The following is an excerpt of a letter from Rev. George F. X. Strass­ner. President of the Notre Dame Club of Arkansas: 
"Hooray for our football team! Have talked Notre Dame everjTvhere in my fourteen county circuit; and reading on Sundays from the Altar the •(vrite-ups of Notre Dame in Our Sunday Visitor, iiany times have to prove that Notre Dame is not just a football school; the Hurley gift and his remarks accompanying it give me a strong argument. 
~ "The ALUMNUS is getting better. Keep it up. (Ed's note: Thanks for the kind words.) 
"With best wishes, a Merrj' Christ­mas and Happy New Year, I am. Yours sincerely, (signed) George F. X. Strassner." 
BUFFALO 
This from Paul Hoeffler: 

"Dear Jim: 
"What a night December 30, 1930! The biggest and best Notre Dame party Buffalo ever witnessed. About 225 couples all set for a good time and everyone had what they looked for. Song—Laughter—^whooppee! 
IIIIIDMIIKIIIttI 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
lllllltltltlllKIIIIMIIIIItltllllll 

"The predominant alumni: Presi­dent Ed. Lutz and his trailer; Al Boehm with his; Marty Ryan, his brother brought the girls and ex­plained all of their good qualities; Gordon Bennett with his school girl; Ed Bank and his cane, (due to a game leg.) The cane was discarded as the evening wore along. Tom Kenny, Hank Bums, Pinkey Cotter, Marty Travers, George Doyle, and more . . . but trj' to remember. 
"The election of officers came off without injuries although a tie did come about at the election of gover­nors between Tom Kenny and Bus Ir­win. Bus took Tom outside and came back alone with the cards." 
"Gordon Bennett, ex. '26, won first place; Al Boehm, '24, second place; Marty Ryan, '28, holds the bag; Hank Bums, '29, wields the pen. 
"Don't expect too much from the prize winners. Reasons withheld. I asked Gordon what his policy was for the following year. He and Cal ran on the same ticket "Actions speak louder than words." And Gordon is a bad actor. 
"The Buffalo-Notre Dame Alumni wish you a very Happy New Year, Jim. 
Paul." 
DAYTON 

A letter from Bill Kavanaugh came too late for the December issue. Here it is: 
"Dear Jim: 

"Perhaps you sometimes wonder whether or not there is an alumni club in Dayton. I wish to assure you emphatically that there is. The sec­retary here will take all the blame for the lack of publicity that has been forthcoming from us. 
"On December 6th our worthy Pres­ident, Joe Murphy, called a meeting of the members of the Notre Dame Club to be held at the Miami Hotel. Before the meeting we had a radio reception of the Southern California game which, of course, was very en­thusiastically received by our mem­bers, about thirty in attendance. After the game the soprts writers from the various local papers dropped in on us and each was impressed by 
our loyalty and made comments in 
the papers the next day. I am enclos­
ing one of the clippings. 
"With best wishes, I beg to remain. Yours verj' truly, Bill Kavanaugh." 

DAYTON ALUMNI OF NOTRE 
DAME CHEERED BY WIN 
By Jake Frong. 

While a small band of Notre Dame football athletes, headed by their coach, Knute Rockne, was handing the University of Southern California one of its worst defeats in the school's history yesterday afternoon before a crowd of 90,000 fans on the Pacific coast, a similar group of Notre Dame alumni assembled at the Miami hotel here yesterday afternoon, hoping and pulling for an Irish victory. 
After listening to the gigantic grid struggle as a guest of the Day­ton alumni of Notre Dame yester­day, we can readily understand why the South Bend school has risen to such great heights in the football world. 
We've seen many a university alumni get-together, but never has it been our good fortune to see as fine a band of grads who still pos­sess as much school spirit as the Notre Dame alumni showed us yes­terday while following the fortunes of Knute Rockne and his Ramblers on the Pacific coast. 
No alumni in the country, we venture to say, is as strong and as well organized as the Dayton-Notre Dame chapter. It isn't large in numbers but tremendous in spirit. That's what makes Notre Dame so tough to beat on the gridiron— school spirit, and the one and only Knute Rockne. 
The Notre Dame alumni get-to­gether brought forth numerous in­teresting facts. In- its midst were such civic honorables as Judge Fer­neding and John Shea, who, by the way, are the two oldest Notre Dame alumni in-the city. 
There was Joe Murphy, another 

Januarij, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
QlltlMllllillllllllllllltlltllllllllllllllliaillllllllllllllllDlllttllltflllfllllitllltfllMlillMHtllMlltlitfMttlMtmlHIiHIIMltlMlfHmHI* 
•well known local attorney, who, it 
was revealed, was Notre Dame's first cheer leader. And judging by yes­terday's little show, Joe Murphy hasn't lost a bit of his old-time ability as a leader of cheers. Mur­phy was also a classmate of Knute Eockne. "The only difference be­tween Eockne and me," says Joe Murphy, "is that he never knew what it was to lead a cheer, while I never knew, and probably never will know, what it is to coach the greatest football team in the country." 
Huddled also together and listening attentively to everj' description of play were Gene Mayl and "Eed" Shea, both former athletes under ICnute Rockne's reign. And Gene and Eed were just as enthusiastic over the play-by-play accounts of the contest as if they were in the midst of the struggle themselves. 
Dayton-Notre Dame alumni prob­ably wasn't the only organization which celebrated the Irish vietory over the Trojans yesterday. Every alumnus of the South Bend institu­tion joined in the celebration—and rightly so. 
That, in brief, is the Notre Dame school siprit—a spirit which cannot be excelled. 
FORT W.A.YNE 
"Dear Jim: 

"Fill the hungrj- ALUMNUS col­umns with a load of this. The Uni­versity of Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne paid their respects to ten Fort WajTie undergraduates at an annual Christmas dinner at the Catholic Community Center building here De­cember 29. Edward Gilmartin, presi­dent, opened the meeting by extend­ing his felicitations to the under­graduate guests and expressing his pleasure at their presence. 
"Thomas A. Hayes officiated as toastmasterfor the informal speaking program comprising brief talks by John G. Baker, Donnelly P. McDon­ald and Harry Flannery, of the alum­ni; and Jack Williams, of the under­graduates Mr. Williams promised the alumni that the undergraduates would give their fullest co-operation to alumni activities after graduation. (Make a note of that, Jim). 
"Dr. James M. Dinnen, who went to Notre Dame before a great many of the Fort Wayne alumni were bom, was forced to be absent from the city the evening of the banquet but sent a telegram to Mr. Gilmartin express­ing regrets, and wishing every one present a successful New Year. 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
i Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to 
i • Alumni Secretary, Box Si, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
i CHICAGO: Friday; 12:00, Ivory Room, Mandel's (weekly luncheon). 
I CINCINNATI: Tuesday; 12:15 p. m., Broadway Hotel (luncheon meet­
: ings—first and Third Tuesdays). 
: CLEVELAND: Monday; Hollenden Hotel (year around luncheon 
i meetings. 
i DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date—(call Carleton I Beh). 
I DETROIT: Thursday; 12:30 p. m., Frontenac Inn, 42 Monioe Avenue I (weekly luncheon meeting). 
I DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Monthly luncheon—last Wednesday of I each month; University Club, Washington. 
I FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no regular date—(call Edward T. I Gilmartin, President). 
: JOLIET: Monthly meeting—first Tuesday. (Call Clarence Wilhelmi I for details). 
1 KENTUCKY: Tuesday (luncheon meetings—second Tuesday; no reg-| i ular location; call J. R. Brown, President). | 
i LOS ANGELES: Monthly dinner meeting; no regular location—(call | I John S. Mclnnes, President, for details). i 
I NEW JERSEY: Monday; 7:30 p. m., Newark Athletic Club, Newark | i —(monthly meeting—first Monday). | 
I NEW YORK CITY: Thursday; Fraternity Club, 22 E. 38th Street— | I (weekly luncheon). = 
I NORTHERN CALIFORNIJV. : Tuesday; noon. Grill Room, Fairmount i I Hotel, San Francisco—(monthly luncheon—first Tuesday). | 
I EOCHESTEE: Wednesday, 12:15 p. m.. Chamber of Commerce Private | i Dining Eoom—(Luncheon—first and third Wednesday). | 
j SYRACUSE: Wednesday; 12:15 p. m., Schraft's—monthly luncheon— | I second Wednesday). . | 
I WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, | I December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Ind.—(call Francis Watson, | i President, for details). | 
I UTAH: Tuesday, University Club, Salt Lake City—(monthly luncheon | I —first Tuesday). | 
1 AVESTERN PENNSYLVANIA: Thursdays; 12:15, McCreery's Dining .1 i Room, Sixth -A.ve. and Wood St., Pittsburgh—(weekly luncheons); | 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1931 
"Incidentally Messrs. F. Leslie Lo­gan and yours truly who like our­selves like no one else, reported cheerfully that the club has now a little cash on hand after not pajTng for a few expenses. Under the ad­ministration of these modest gentle­men, there has never been a club deficit. This is intended as a good-natured wise-crack at preceding ad­ministrations. 
"Take the wheat from the chaff and make a news item for yourself out of this letter. 
Best wishes for 1931, Cliff Ward." 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The Alumni Office is in receipt of an interesting duplicate plaque, the original having been presented to Knute K. Rockne and the Football Team of 1930 by the Indianapolis Club. The inscription is: "Congratu­lations to Knute Rockne and his 1930 National Football Champions. Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis." 
The Alumni Secretary wishes to take tills means to express his sin­cere appreciation and thanks to the members of the Club for this thought­fulness. We are proud to have this duplicate plaque on display in the Alumni Office. 
ICANSAS 
A letter from Norb Skelley from Salina, Kansas is self-explanatory. 
"At a Salina Country Club dinner Saturday evening the following Notre Dame men were present: Bob Briggs, Tom Quinn, John E. Carlin, Albert Mc­Lean, Norb. F. Schwartz Charles L. Schwartz, Norb. Skelly, all of Salina, Kansas and Arthur Schmidt of Con­cordia. At this dinner the same thoughts were expressed that I have heard from former Notre Dame men in Hutchinson, Wilson, Garden City and Wichita this year "why not a Kansas-Notre Dame Club even though there are a very few of us, that just once a year we could all get together and talk over old times and co-operate toward something better later on?" 
"I can assure you that if such a Club is formed out here it will be a credit to the University. 
"With sincere regards, 
Norb. F. Skelley, '25. 
The Alumni Office has written to Norb and hopes that the Club of Kansas can be organized and get go­ing before Universal Notre Dame Night, April 20. A group of Notre Dame men, definitely organized and willing to assume a certain amount of responsibility as Notre Dame's representatives in a community can do the University inestimable good. We hope that Notre Dame men in Kansas will get in touch with Norb Skelley, 636 E. Iron Ave., Salina, Kansas or write direct to the Alumni Office, Notre Dame. Let's have a definitely organized Notre Dame Club of Kansas listed in the Februarv ALUMNUS! 
NEW JERSEY 
"Dear Jim: 
"Happy New Year to you personal­ly, and from the New Jersey alumni to the N. D. alumni of the world. 
"The New Jersey alunmi are seri­ous in everj"thing we do—serious, I mean, in putting across the best sort of time for visitors. And our party I think, was the best ever. (Please forgive the Chairman for being ego­tistic enough to say this—actually my co-workers, Jerry Froelich and Carl Zwigard, had plenty to do lith the affair.) 
"I must remember that, as a writer, I am prone to be long-winded (it pays at magazine word rates). • So I'll have to be brief. The purpose of the affair was to honor five Jersey boys who have been on the varsity foot­ball squad. Thus it happened that seventy persons gathered to honor Bucky O'Connor, Vinnie Whelan, Bob JIassey, Al Capter and Bill Blind. The party was held at the Newark Elks Club Tuesdav night, December 30. 
"Just by way of gi\'ing you the lowdown on the way we attract worthwhile folks glimpse this list of speakers: Lawrence Perry, famous sports writer; Eugene W. Farrell, business manager of the Newark Evening News (one of the country's leading dailies); Howard Freeman, humorist and cartoonist creater of the nationally syndicated golf strip "In the Rough"; Daniel Murphy, 
N. D. '95, famous patent attorney; James Heyer, vice-president of the Metropolitan Casualty Insurance Co.; Rev. Cornelius J. Ahem, one of Jer­sey's most active young priests. 
"To say everyone had a good time puts it mildly. For once, in my ex­perience, I saw ordinarily conserva­tive speakers enjoy the whole pro­ceedings. The affair started at seven and ended at midnight. Perry's his­tory of Notre Dame would have done credit to an alumnus; Howard Free­man's humorous talk was only ap­proached by the speeches (he gave three) of "Sleepy" Jim Crowley (Yup, he and Adam Walsh and Noble ICizer were late arrivals from New York with Joe Byrne ha%'ing them in tow.) 
"Crowley's imitation of Rock's pre­game talk, his talk on Pro-hi-bition and one other had the gang in stitches. Freeman previously had rolled 'em in the aisles with hot ones. (By the way, one guest was Cadet John Watters, a Jersey boy and a lineman likely to be prominent against N. D. ne.xt Fall.) 
"Space is too valuable to go into more detail, but suffice it to say that some of the N. D. boys who stayed to the last were, in addition to the com­mittee: Bus Griffin, Ed Broderick, Karl Pfeiffer, Charley Winter, Frank McDermott, Dan O'Neill, Jim Wal­dron, Jerry Hayes (He's just come out on top in a New Jersey medical examination and is now Dr. Hayes to you and you and you); Tom Farrell, Tom and Dick Purcell, Treasurer Jim Quinn, President Bert Daniels— his name ought to be at the head of the list since he welcomed the gather­ing); "Dike" Scanlon of New York, Lass Fish, Bill Carter, George Hew-son; E. Staehlin Shields; Eddie Dug­gan. Wliat a gang! 
Everyone had such a good time that we are all looking forward to the Universal Notre Dame Night. Our Secretary, Joe Nulty, will let you know details later. 
"Please pardon the lengthy busi­ness but I can hardly help it. nd please don't forget to mention that Frank J. Roan, 'OS, was our excellent toastmaster. We have high hopes that he will be around regularly to our meetings." 
Art Lea Mond. 
NEW YORK 
Not to be outdone by New Jersey, Ed Byrne crashes through with a long letter about the N. D. doings in the big town. 
"Dear Jim: 
"We have been off the pages of the ALUMNUS for a while but we are going to make this issue. 
"As usual, the Notre Dame Club of New York has been very active dur­ing the Fall season. The Club ran two trainloads of alumni and un­official alumni down to Philadelphia for the Penn Relays on November 8. There wasn't a soul who didn't enjoy the festivities between 1:30 P. M. and 
4:30 P. M. The only game for sheer brilliancy and perfect execution of offensive plays which nearly rivalled 

January, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
this perfect game was the Nebraska game on November 15, 1924 when the Horsemen and Mules hypnotized the comhuskers on Cartier Field 34-6. But, in the Penn Relays, we easily copped the meet, because we had everything from dash men to boys who could go a mile and win. 
"We had the Bellevue-Stratford as our headquarters, and the Club, under the sponsorship of "Dike" Scanlan, Tom Murphy, Bill Daunt and myself, spread a sumptuous repast in the Red Room. After that, we all attended the dance given by the Philadelphia Club in the Ballroom. John Neeson and John Kelly put on a grand show. 
"Returning to New York as we all had to, we prepared ourselves for those last three climactic games that were to give us another championhip. The Northwestern game was heard at the Hotel Pennsylvania where Notre Dame men were the guests of Mr. Berg, a Northwestern alumnus, and an official of the hotel. The game was a thriller! . . . 
"The Army game we all heard broadcast at the Catholic Club. That game should have been played in the swimming pool with old Mike the referee. 
"New York didn't get a real view of Notre Dame players until Satur­day, December 13, when they arrived here for the charity game with the Pro-Giants. We met the team at the Grand Central with the Mayor's Official committee. The team received a tremendous ovation in the station and enroute to City Hall where they and Rock were officially received by our Mayor, James J. Walker. Hugh O'Donnell, president of the local club, presented Rock and the team to His Honor, and the Mayor delivered a beautiful address emphasizing Notre Dame's glorious contribution to Amer­ican sportsmanship. Rock spoke as only he can. The speeches were broadcast over four radio stations. 
"The next day, the thousands came for charity and to see Notre Dame. We lost, but what a wonderful cause was benefitted by the sacrifice and devotion of those many boys who came back because they loved Notre Dame and Rock. They played for charity and charity was the victor, $125,000 net profit was realized. 
"That evening. Rock, the boys and their friends were tendered a banquet at the Vanderbilt. The dinner com­mittee was composed of Dike Scan­lan, Tom Murphy and myself. Mayor Walker and Rock were the guests of honor. Hugh O'Donnell presided as toastmaster. John Neeson was there from Philadelphia, -A.ngus McDonald, ever loyal, was a speaker and told an excellent tale concerning the Stan­ford game in 1925. The Mayor paid a great tribute to Rock, and Rock has now invited Jimmy to sit with him on the sidelines when Notre Dame plays, though we all hope he doesn't become a member of the Downtown Coaches Association. The Club presented a check for $265 to Mayor Walker and his official committee for the unem­ployed, which represented a dollar for every point Notre Dame made this Fall, and the Mayor stated that if Rock knew we were going to do this he would have applied a little more pressure during the Season. 
"The Club held its business meet­ing in the middle of December, and a nominating committee was elected to propose members of the Board of Governors for the year 1931. Messrs. O'Donnell, Kenny, Scanlan, Murphy, and McEUigott hold over for one more year. For members for two vears, the following were proposed: William A. Walsh, .John T. Balfe, James F. Hayes, Ambrose O'Connell and Ed Byrne. For one year: John Leo McBride, Harry Sylvester, Joseph Lenihan, Patrick iVIcDonough and Ed­ward A. Fallon, (who, by the way, just successfully passed the New York Bar examination.) We have our first annual meeting on Januarj' 15. 
"Rock is in town now for the Auto show. We think he looks hungry so we are going to have a luncheon for him. More later, Jim. Happy New Year. 
Ed. Byme." 
ROCHESTER 

"Upwards of one hundred alumni of Notre Dame and Georgetown Uni­versities gathered at Powers Hotel ballroom Saturday night in the first combined party ever had by former students of the two institutions. 
Entertainment which included a quartet in songs of the two uni­versities was interspersed between courses of the dinner, and following the dinner, brief speeches were made by James P. B. Duffy, president of the Georgetown .A.lumni Club; Joseph Tiemey, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club; Commissioner of Pub­lic Safety Donald A. Dailev, Joseph 
H. Corcoran, Joseph H. Flynn and Joseph J. Doran. Mr. Tiemey acted as toastmaster. 
The speeches mostly were in rem­iniscent vein. Included among out­of-town guests were "Sleepy" Jim" Crowley, one of the Four Horsemen, and Glenn Carberry, captain of the 1922 Notre Dame football team. A football used in the Notre Dame-Southem California game and auto­graphed by the members of the 1930 Notre Daine squad, was on display at the dinner. 
Undergraduates of the two univer­sities, home for the holidays, were included among the guests. Arrange­
ments for the dinner were made by a . 
committee headed by Mr. Flynn." 
Clint Lintz, Secretary writes that 

the next meeting will be held some­
time in February for the election of 
officers. 
The local club received no little publicity on New Y'ear's night when Tom Ashe spoke over the local sta­tion in regard to Notre Dame and the recent football Season. 
Harold P. Burke, '16, has recently been appointed to the attorney-gen­eral's office in Albany. Mr. Burke has been an active member of the Rochester Club for sometime and everyone is glad to hear of his recent success. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

George Kingsley, Secretary of the Club promised us a detailed report of the Now Year's Ball which the Club held at the Pittsburgh Field Club. According to George the plans had been completed to make this affair one of the feature events of the holi­day season. No report has been re­ceived yet. After the magazine is on the press the writer expects to find a fat newsy letter from Pitts­burgh containing all the dope. It is always thus! 
The .A.lumni Secretary wishes to congratulate the Club of Western Pennsylvania on the fine spirit the members have been displaying in con­nection with the Living Endowment Plan. As we pointed out in the De­cember issue of the -ALUMNUS, a collection is taken up at the Club meeting to which the members "con­tribute. The proceeds of this collec­tion are forwarded to the Alumni Office to be applied to the Fund. This system is a great encouragement and one of the best steps yet in the devel­opment of the Living Endowment Plan among the Clubs. 
P. S. 
No sooner had the Western Penn­sylvania Club notes been sent to the printer than a letter from the Club Secretary arrived. We note that the New Years Notre Dame Ball was a huge success—socially and financially. The crowd was the largest in the his­tory of this affair, thus assuring the Chairman a Happy New Year. Under­graduates from Pittsburgh and other cities in the Pittsburgh territory were present and helped to make the dance the success it was. 
Another item of interest in George's letter is the notice of a change in the weekly luncheons of the Club. In­stead of the luncheons at Gimbel's Dining Room on Thursday noon, the weekly affairs will be held at Mc­Creery's Dining Room, Sixth Avenue & Wood St., Pittsburgh, every Thurs­day at 12:15 P. M. . 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1931 
E E 
Q 
Deaths 

The Alumni Office has received a telegram from Reading, Pa., contain­ing the verv sad news of the death of GERARD E. KREMP, '24, who passed away Wednesday, November 26. The telegram was signed by Robert and Ferdinand Kremp, N. D. '21 and '25 respectively. 
The ALUMNUS regrets to report on the death of GEORGE KUPPLER, '02, who died in Shelton, Washing­ton, December 28, as the result of an automobile accident. 
Mr. Kuppler was a member of the Notre Dame football teams of 1S98, 1899 and 1901 and played in the first football game held on Cartier field. He was graduated in law from the University in 1902. He visited the University in October of last year to attend the dedication of the stadium at the time of the Navy game. 
He was bom in South Bend in 

1878 and lived in that city until he 
was twelve old, when he moved with 
his family to Port Angeles. 
Mr. Kuppler was a member of the 

firm of Chris Kuppler and Sons of 
Port Angeles, prominent pulp mill 
construction firm and president of the 
Port Angeles Chamber of Commerce. 
He was a director of the First Na­
tional Bank of Port Angeles and of 
the American National Bank of Port 
To\vnsend. He was the first presi­
dent of the Fort Angeles Rotarj' Club 
and Elk and Masonic lodges of Port 
Angeles. 
Surviving are his widow, Willetta; a daughter, Mrs. Jerrj- Simpson, and three brothers, Herman and Oscar of Port Angeles and AValter of Seattle. 
The ALUMNUS expresses the sym­pathy of the University and the As­sociation to C. E. SMI'TH, '29, whose wife passed away on September 23. 
Marriages 

Miss Elizabeth Chotard, daughter of the late R. D. Chotard, and WII^ LLVM D. O'SHEA, ex '09, were married at St. Andrew's cathedral, Fort Smith, Arkansas on December 16, by Bishop John B. Morris. 
Mrs. O'Shea is state chairman of the Americanism Committee of the American Legion Auxiliary and Mr. O'Shea is state historian of the Legion. 
=THE ALUMNI 
The log chapel at Notre Dame Uni­versity provided the setting Saturday, December 27, for the marriage of Miss Suzanna Leen, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Leen, of Cincinnati, Ohio, and JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28, of Danville, 111. The ceremony was read at 9 o'clock by Rev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 
Following the ceremony, a break­fast was given in the Gold room of the Oliver hotel. Mr. and Mrs. Mor­rissey are making their home in Cin­cinnati, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Sullivan an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Margaret Fern to DONALD D. SULLWAN, '30, on Saturday, Janu­ary 3, Northampton, Mass. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. O'Brien, announce the marriage of their daughter, Grace Dolores, to CHES­TER ALLEN WYNNE, '22, on Sat­urday, December 27, in Omaha, Nebraska. 
After February 1, Mr. and Mrs. Wynne will be at home in Auburn, Alabama where Chet is coaching the Auburn Polytechnic Institute. 
An announcement from JUNO KINERK, '24, from Washington, D. C, informs the writer that Miss Marion Weber, of Niles, became Mrs. Juno on October 12, in South Bend. 
The announcement was fashioned after the famous "Believe It Or Not" by Ripley, and Juno offers to prove anjiihing stated on request, sent with stamped and self-addressed envelope to 2001 I St., N. W., Washington, 
D. C. 
A wedding of special interest to ALUMNUS readers is that of TIMO­THY MOYNIHAN, former football star and assistant coach of the team, and Miss Slabel Roach, Rawlins High school teacher. 
The couple were secretly marired last September. They met while stu­dents at the local high school. -Ac­cording to Mrs. Moynihan, Tim went to Rawlins for a visit last fall while she was a teacher at the local high school. They were married Septem­ber G at Rock Springs, Wyoming. 
The marriage was kept a secret until Mrs. Moynihan went home to visit her parents. Warden and Mrs. 
A. F. Roach. Her father is warden of the state penitentiary at Rawlins. 
Another wedding which is good copy for the column of the ALUM­
uQ 

NUS is that of ROBERT EMMETT KIRBY, ex '28 to Miss Antoinette Katherine Langsenkamp of Indianap­olis. 
The wedding took place in SS. Peter and Paul Cathedral, Indianap­olis, with Bishop Joseph M. Char­trand officiating. Mass was said by the Rev. Elmer J. Ritter and the ceremony was followed by a wedding breakfast at the Indianapolis Ath­letic Club. 
Miss Eleanor Kirby, sister of the bridegroom was maid of honor and Miss Josephine Madden, Miss Mar­jorie McDuffee, Miss Martha Barry and Miss Frances Koeneman wei-e the bridesmaids. James Kirby, brother of the bridegroom sen-ed as best man and the ushers included Howard Crowby, John Davis, '28, Robert Langsenkamp and Heni-y Langsenkamp, Jr., both brothers of the bride. Anthony Kopecky, '28, and Vincent Ducey, '28, both of Chicago, were among the guests. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kirby have left for a trip to Asheville, N. C. Mrs. Kirby attended St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana and the Marj'mount School at Tarrytown, N. Y. 
And now the biggest news story in 1930! LOUIS JOHN BUCKLEY JOINS BENEDICTS! On Monday, December 29, at exactly 9:20 (Louis was twenty minutes late) in the Log Chapel of Notre Dame, Louis Buck­ley, one of the eligible bachelors of the Class of '28 left the ranks of single blessedness. Miss Pauline Christenson was the girl: Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C, '17, read the ser\-­ice; Miss Mary Agnes Christenson and Joseph Brannon, ex '28, were the wit­nesses; and members of the immedi­ate families and a few stunned friends the spectators. 
Mrs. Buckley is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Christenson, of Mishawaka. She attended St. Mary's College. Mr. Buckley is a member of the Class of 1928 and received his Master's degree in 1930. He is an instructor in Economics at the Uni­versity, Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Columbus, and is the 1928 Class Sec­retarj' for the ALUMNUS. 
Mr. and Mrs. Buckley will make their home in South Bend. 
Miss Bemice Kintz, daughter of 

Mr. and Mrs. John Kintz, Edwards-
burg Road, was married to DONALD 
L. NORTON, '30, of Erie, Pa., son of Mr. and Mrs. Edward Norton, of Hut­
January, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
chinson, Kansas, in a ceremony per­formed at 9 o'clock December 28, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Rev. John Reynolds, '17, officiated. 
Mr. and Mrs. Norton left immedi­ately for Cleveland, Ohio, and will make their home in Erie, Pa. 
Births 

BART C. FAVERO, '27, is the proud father of a son, Joseph An­thony, bom December 17. 
Engagements 

Mr. and Mrs. John H. Van Deven­ter of Yonkers, N. Y., have announced the engagement of their daughter. Miss Helen Van Deventer, to JOHN LAW, '30, also of Yonkers. Miss Van Deventer attended Trinity School and was graduated from the College of New Rochelle. 
John needs no introduction. .A.s Captain of the 1929 football team he will long be remembered as one of the best guards Notre Dame has had in the business. John has been coach­ing at Manhattan College, New York City, since his graduation from the University. 
In a letter from Frank Steel we find a paragraph containing the an­nouncement of the engagement of JOSEPH ICRAICER,'27,to Miss Betty Dettling. Frank says: "Joe was ap­pointed Chairman of the Social Com­mittee of the Notre Dame Club of Akron and to make his social status more effective immediately informs the boys that he is going to be married." Congratulations on both accomplishments! 
Personals 

1880-1885 Prof. Robert JI. Anderson, '83, Circle-ville, Ohio, Secretary. 
A letter from Prof. Anderson says: "Here we are back of the dead line with nothing to tell of our crew. Not one has sent me a line. In this little community there are several who were students at Notre Dame. Two of these are brothers who were there back in my time, but who did not graduate. The elder brother is JOSEPH S. SMITH, who is a farmer and raiser of fancy stock. His home place is on the Eastern outskirts of the town and is called Sunny Side. The younger brother, JAMES J. SMITH, was a minim in 1879 but had to leave after two or three years. He returned after having been at work for several years but did not stick it out, much to his regi-et. However, his son, also a James, I understand went through one of the engineering courses and after­wards went to Columbia for banking and was in a New York bank for a while to get experience. He is now married and living in Detroit. 
"The only thing for me to do to obtain news for.you will be to write personal letters to all of my gi-oup. Until then, with hopes, 
Most sincerely, 
ROBERT M . ANDERSON." 

The Alumni Secretai-y had the pleasure of a long \nsit, December 31, with J. W. GUTHRIE, '85, of Alli­ance, Nebraska, who was spending the holidays in this vicinity. Mr. Guthrie entertained the office with stories of the Notre Dame he knew and we spent a very pleasant afternoon scan­ning through old records and bound volumes of the Scholastic. Mr. Guth­rie was a member of the boat crew and a football player "way back when" Notre Dame wasn't considered National Champions. 
A newspaper article from Joliet, Illinois, gives us some more dope on the "good old days." N. J. COMER­FORD, '83, tells of some of the inter­esting highlights at- Notre Dame dur­ing the early '80s. Mr. Comerford says: "It was football with the accent on the 'foot' in those days. The boys didn't play rival colleges with the cheers of 115,C00 wild fans ringing in their ears. There weren't any thrilling passes, startling long runs for touchdowns, or even any touch­downs. Furthermore, they didn't play football with rival colleges because colleges in 1889 weren't officially rep­resented by teams. It was then what now would be called intra-mural sport. 
"Boys of the college used to line up in teams of 50 players each on a more or less standard field with goal posts 10 feet high at each end. The ball was thrown up between these two milling mobs and the battle was on. They played for a barrel of apples. There was a penalty for running with, the ball. 
"The 1880 'pigskin' was round, like a present-day soccer ball. A player could advance it only l>y kicking it with his feet." 
Mr. Comerford was 18 years old when he entered Notre Dame. Given his first chance to play football, he decided to make a reputation for him­self by stopping the antics of the "race-horses," as the upper class vet­erans were called. 
When asked about his success he said: "The less said about that, the better. For a week I went up the dormitory stairs on my hands and knees and came down "on the bannis­ter. I was so sore and lame I couldn't walk up the steps. After that I took up handball. That was the big- sport those days. Football was just im­promptu horse play." 
A taste of the game came down to Mr. Comerford's three sons, however. George, John and Dean, all entered the minim section in 1903. George, now vice-president of the Joliet Maca­roni company, promptly became a football player and acquired a broken nose. 
"We're all fans now, though," the elder Comerford said. "This football isn't the football we knew with Notre Dame the master of the game—^wdl, we'll be rooting until they throw the last pass." 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave, 
Jiinneapolis, Minn,, Secretary. 

The following comes from the Sec­retary, Louis P. Chute: 
"When at Notre Dame a few-decades agone this Secretary always enjoyed the quippish good humor of Professor Stace, the 'bachelor-afraid­of-the-girls." He wrote poems and little dissertations under the noms-de plume of 'Boyle Dowl' and -Justin Thyme" and spent the recreation hours in solo hikes and high boots musing intellectual problems, filling the interstices with comic sayings. Mathematician, linguist and clear thinking genius, a latent droUsome humour saved him from the dullness and drabness of single blessedness. He never qualified in the requisite condition for emulation of Dr. Egan's 'The Lilacs' by establishing his con­templated 'The Rhubarbs.' 
"Professor Stace featured well in the history of the upbuilding of the 'Spirit of Notre Dame.' For disin­terested friendship for his Alma Ma­ter he ranks quite with "The Colonel' and Martin McCus. 
"Sometimes this Secretary tries to get a little droll himself, having a predilection for the terse,—^for titles that say mouthfuls in short terms. He is just now hoping to meet someone especially qualified as an historian of men and events at the old College, one versed in the big facts and little gos­sip of the place who might take the urge to write a dissertation on a title or two come into this one's cabesa, (or maybe calabeza for short),—such as 'The Nnncness of the Tunc' or "The to-dayness of the Yest'—tying to­gether the Log Cabin, the Old Main, the Fire, the Guilded Dome; the Kick­ball, the Rugby, the Four Horsemen, 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS JanuaiT), 1931 
the Carideo, the Unbeaten;—the spir­

DIX REUNIONS 
JUNE 5, 6, and 7,1931 
CLASS SECRETARIES NOTE! CLASS MEMBERS NOTE! 
JLvKE YOUR PLANS ACCORDIXGLY! 
The line of years at the top marain dcsianatcs the years in which reunions are held. The column of figures down the left ntarffin designates tJte class year or year of graduation. 
1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 193" 193S 1939 1940 1943 1942 1943 1944 1939 1939 1938 1938 1937 1937 1936 1936 1935 1935 1934 1934 1933 1933 1932 1932 1932 1931 1931 1931 1930 1930 1930 1929 1929 1929 1929 1928 1928 1928 1928 1927 1927 1927 1927 1926 1926 1926 1926 1926 1925 1925 1925 1925 1924 1924 1924 1924 1923 1923 1923 1923 1922 1922 1922 1922 1921 1921 1921 1921 1920 1920 1920 1920 1919 1919 1919 1919 1918 1918 1918 1918 1918 1917 1917 1917 1917 1917 1916 1916 1916 1916 1915 1915 1915 1915 1914 1914 1914 1914 1914 1913 1913 1913 1913 1913 1912 1912 1912 1912 1912 1911 1911 1911 1911 1910 1910 1910 1910 1910 1909 1909 1909 1909 1909 1908 1908 1908 1908 1908 1907 1907 1907 1907 1907 
1906 1906 1906 1906 1906 1905 1905 1905 1905 1904 1904 1904 1904 1903 1903 1903 1903. 1902 1902 1902 1902 1901 1901 1901 1901 1900 1900 1900 1900 1899 1899 1899 1899 1898 1898 1898 1898 1897 1897 1897 1896 1896 1896 1896 1895 1895 1895 1895 1894 1894 1894 1894 1894 
• 

1893 1893 1893 1893 1893 1892 1892 1892 1892 1892 1891 1891 1891 1891 1890 1890 1890 1890 1890 1889 1889 1889 1889 1889 1888 1888 1888 1888 1888 1887 1887 1887 1887 1887 1886 1 1886 1886 1886 1886 1885 1885 1885 1885 1885 1884 1884 1884 1884 1883 1883 1883 1883 1883 1882 1882 1882 1882 1882 1881 1881 1881 1881 1881 1880 1880 1880 1880 1879 1879 1879 1879 1878 1878 1878 
its of the Carried-on inspiring the spirit of the Carrying-on; and give expression to the idea that the then and today, with intervening events, friendships and associations, can join in spirit as family group in an ever present 'now.' 
"Maybe the above won't take, but in any event it disposes of a notion. 
"This Secretary would likewise com­ment that he was the one who, not officially as Secretary but individually only, got off a pretty good one some­time ago about 'Empty Pews,' saying: Why should not the pews of the Cath­olic churches be the emptiest of them all, knowing as we do that all Sunday morning and for two hours on the week days they spend so much time emptying them? 
"The above are but samples of quips that pop in and pop out. They help to drive dull care away. 
"At a later date, if acceptable, you might be regaled with a dissertation on the personal experience of a sub­amateur-footballist. It is appreciated that injection of the personal element is subject to some objection, but it is hoped that no offense will be taken to the allusion that there are some who will forgive anything." 
1897 
Rev. John MacNamara, St. Joseph Sanitarium, Mount Clemens, Mich., Secretary. 
The above address for Father Mac­Namara is a temporary one. Father iVIacNamara has been resting and gaining strength at the Sanitarium for some time now. We are using the above address instead of the more familiar one at Garden City in the hope that some of Father's many friends will drop him a line at Mount Clemens. 
1910 
Rev. 51. L. Jloriarty, 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio, Secretary 
The following from the genial Father "Mike" Moriarty: 
"This word may reach you early on one of the latest New Years. The 1910 Secretary has just come through some well grouped holidays and with­out blustering like a braggart I can say softly that we i-eceived greetings from some nice people. Most of these people are too prominent to mention. 
"We managed to see a part of the Army game through the rain and fog. I felt and looked as if I had recovered that blocked kick and straightway went into dry-dock for repairs. 


January, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 191 
"FATHER BOLAND, '18, came to help out at Wooster during the holi­days. With his help I was able to kesp on keeping on. 
"I am promising you to get in to help at Wooster during the holi­touch with RED MILLER next week and perhaps we can line up some news of 1910 for the February edi­tion. Meanwhile, voila and besides 
M. L. Moriarty." 
1916 

Timothy P. Galvin, 708 First Trust 
Bldg., Hammond, Ind. Secretary 

Classmates of HAROLD P. BURI^, '16, will be pleased to hear of his ap­pointment as deputy attorney general for the State of New York. 
After his graduation from Notre Dame Harold entered the army in 1917 on this country's entrance into the war. After discharge from ser\'­ice, he studied law, and he was ad­mitted to the bar in 1920. For a time he was associated with George Bums in law practice, and for several years past has been a member of the firm of Hone & Burke. He is active in American Legion circles and in fra­ternal organizations. He has been a member of the Notre Dame Club of Rochester. 
• Mr. Burke was Democratic candi­date for member of Assembly in 1929 and for State Senator last Fall. He has been active among the younged Democratic element and has headed an organization of young Democratic attorneys for the last four years. 
We offer him sincere congratula­tions and best wishes for success. 
1922 

Gerald .4she, 1024 Jlonroe Ave„ Roch­
ester, N. Y., Secretarj-. 
"A card from J. P. CuUen informs 

us that he is in Detroit temporarily, 
but J. P. should be more explicit. 
Maybe Jack Higgins or Jim Foren 
will investigate the details and ren­
der a complete report to this depart­
ment. 
"Bemie McCaffery is president of the McCaffery Co., jobbers of electri­cal supplies and machinery in South Bend. 
"The fountain of youth, which evaded Ponce de Leon, was discovered this fall by our own Hunk Anderson who surprised some of the modem youths with his sparkling exhibition of line play in charity games. Hunk deserves a world of credit for his part in developing the Notre Dame line last fall, and furthermore he coached the team of N. D. All Stars which won a victory over Jim Phe­lan's star aggregation as Los An­geles in December. 
"Vince and Clem, Jr., Pater com­prise the law firm of Pater and Pater in Hamilton, Ohio. Vince was one of the star performers of the class of '22; Clem, Jr. took an A.B. course at Notre Dame in 1926-7, and then took up the study of law being graduated from the University of Cincinnati. 
"Last month we suggested a lost and found department to report as lost those of whom we seem to get little or no information due to mod­esty or carelessness etc. Those listed as lost last month are still lost. But we are not licked yet. Let us have some news from or about: Harry Hoffman, Morgan Sheedy, George Prokop, Joe Behan, Jack Rice, and the Pied-piper Sylvester Steinle." 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave, New York City. 

Application for admission to the St. Joseph County bar was made Januarj- 10 by Benjamin C. Piser, former resident of Mishawaka, who will enter the law firm of Shively and Arnold. 
Mr. Piser was graduated from Notre Dame in 1924 and from the University of Chicago in 1927, re­ceiving a Doctor of Jurisprudence degree. His high school education was received in Mishawaka. He was graduated in 1919. 
After leaving the University of Chicago Mr. Piser became associated with the firm of Silber, Isaacs, Sil­ber and Woley in Chicago. Mr. Piser specialized in civil and corporation matters in Chicago. 
1925 

John W. Scallan, Pullman Co., 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, Secretary. 
Some of these days we hope to find a letter from the Class Secretarj* with some dope on the 25ers. 
Until the Alumni Secretary suc­ceeds in crashing do\vn the gates of the elusive Jack we, graduates of that GREAT Class of '25, will trj' to be content with the notes of our class­mates success that find their way into the Alumni ofiice. The case of The People of '25 vs. Scallan will be taken up at the next session. 
"HARRY McGUIRE, '25, was seen at the Roosevelt Hotel, New. York City, preparing to embark for Flor­ence, Italy, where he is to spend the next couple of years, having taken a house at 28 Via Vecchia Fiesolana, Florence. Mrs. McGuire has been abroad for some months. Harry will meet her in Naples and she will ac­company him to Florence." 
A short note from JOE MENGER assures us that he is still keeping things going in San Antonio. Joe says: "You might expect a long letter one of these days." 
1926 

Dr. Gerald W. Hayes, 38 N. 12th St., 
Newark, N. J., Secretary. 

SEYMOUR WEISBERGER, '26, South Bend attorney, has been ap­pointed by Sam P. Schwartz, Prose­cutor, as assistant attorney for City Courts. Seymour will handle the work in the South Bend city court. 
We have had several requests for the address of DOCTOR GERALD WELDON HAYES. This morning the Alumni Office received a letter from TOM FARRELL who gives us this interesting bit: "Relative to Jerry, I might state that our Class Secretary is deserving of considerable praise. A week ago last Saturday, he with 60 others took the examina­tion for the internship at the Newark City Hospital, which was a competi­tive affair. Naturally, you have guessed that Jerry came out first. His internship will begin next July and meanwhile he is learning the whys and wherefores of infants at the New York Foundling Hospital. 
"Presume you know that JIMMY STACK has started his surgery in­ternship at Bellevue Hospital in New York. 
"I have been severely reprimanded by several of the fellows for not men­tioning JIM SILVER'S wife's former name at the time I wrote to you._ It was Margaret Gallagher, and she is a sister to JIM QUINN'S wife." 
1928 

Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., Secrteary. 
LOUIE BUCKLEY, Notre Dame's most recent newly-wed, has contrib­uted this letter for the '28 column. 
Here is a letter from RALPH GARZA which I am sure you will enjoy reading. Ralph certainly made a good guess on the Notre Dame score even if he did give So. Cal credit for one touchdown. 
Mexico City 
December 4, 1930. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1931 
MOTOR TOURS 
GREAT BRITAIN—under the direction of Professor William A- Frayer,—from Salisburj' through Devon and Cornwall, the English Lakes, the Shakespeare Gauntry, Scotland, the cathedral towns. London. 3S days. 
FRANCE—with Professor Rene Talamon— from Interlaken and Montreux to Aries, Niraes, Carcassonne, the Pyrenees, Normandy, the Chatcaus of Touraine. 36 days. 
CENTRAL EUROPE—under the leadership of Dr. Georse H. Allen—in an area where cultural and scenic interest are concentrated as nowhere else. Many out-of-the-way places in addition to the great centers. Ilsenburg and Salzburg as well as Berlin, Dresden and Vienna. -IS days. 
Send for Special AnnmnTvnicnt, 
Bureau of University Travel 
SS Bo.rd Street Xcwton, Massachusetts 
Mr. Louis Buckley, Secretary of the Class of '2S, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Dear Louis: 
I -will begin by saying that al­though for the past year I had the best intentions to write and report of my whereabouts, I never had "time" to stop and write a few lines. 
Since August 1928, after my gradu­ation, I have been working for a hy­droelectric company. At first my job took me through different sections of Mexico, but finally about a year ago the company brought me to Mexico City, where I have been located since that time. My address is "Apartado S-bis, Mexico City, Mexico." 
Although there is no "Notre Dame Club of Mexico" a few of us get to­gether every 14th and have a very informal supper. Those that attend are CARLOS PALOMINO,'27, RAUL PLORES, '27, ^^NCENT GOMEZ, '27, RAFAEL GOMEZ, '27, JOE TORIELLO, '27, FRANK CASTRO, '27, ALEJANDRO .A.RENA, '27, GEORGE PALOMINO, '??, RODOL­FO TREVINO, '25, JOSE TRE\aNO, '25, and the writer. 
CONNIE OCHOA, '28, is also in the city -working for the National City Bank of New York. 
Just today I met ARTURO GON­ZALEZ, '25, who is working for the National Highway Commission. He seems to be making out quite good. My brother OSC.A.R G.ARZA, '27, was 
in the city about two weeks ago; he 
is located at Saltillo, Coah., where he 
runs a radio store. 
Of the ones I mentioned above. Pal­
omino, '27, the two Gomez, '27, and 
Castro, '27, are working for the Mex­
ican Light and Power Company oper­
ating in this city. Toriello, '27, had 
a "Hacienda" in the state of Guana­
juato. Arena, '27, is working for the 
National City Bank of New York; by 
the way he was married about five 
months ago. Two Trevino brothers, 
'25, are working for the Mexican Tel. 
and Tel. and George Palomino is tak­
ing some kind of a course at the 
University of Mexico. 
Kindly tell me if you know what the addresses are for Joe Horan, '28, Frank Duquette, '28, Dick Greene, '28, and Frank Gagliardi, '28. 
Hoping that by the time this letter gets to you we know the score was 
N. D. 20, So. Cal. 6, I remain, 
Ralph B. Garza, '28. Very truly yours, 
From Joe Menger, San Antonio, comes the news that GEORGE KIENER, '28, dropped in New Year's Dav. 
1929 
Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind, Secretary. 
We wish to remind Mr. McN.A.­MARA, of the Indianapolis McNa­maras, that he is still Class Secre­tary. The -ALUMNUS still craves news of the '29 Class in exchange for which Joe will be given that long discussed "ride." Joe has apparently been kept busy handling the political affairs of Indianapolis. However, he has been sighted on North Lafayette Street, South Bend, on several occa­sions, and unless he sends us some dope for the February issue of the magazine we will tell all. 
JOHN T. BURKE, Clinton, Mass. is still studying at the Boston Uni­versitv Law School. JIMMY BR.4DY, JOHN CL-VNCI and SAM COL.ARUS­SO are still at the school. The fel­lows say they find time to talk about the school, the team, etc. 
Received notice that both JOHN DOARN, '29, and GEORGE F. CO­GAN, '29, passed the bar in Nebraska. John has offices in the Union State Bank Bldg., Omaha, Neb. 
This from New York: 

"When a man writes a letter from this town, he is expected to tell some­' thing of the Notre Dime gang here. 
I do not see them very often except JOE LENIHAN, GEORGE WINK­LER, JACK ROURICE, and BILL O'­REILLY whom I see at New York. PHILIP A. WALSH is living at 44­54 Bennett Avenue, and working for the Terminal Cab Co. FRANK DOAN did not miss any of the others in his letter which gives me less to -vrrite about. 
I myself am working for General Motors Truck Company in this city doing the purchasing and quite a little of the accounting. Having plenty to do, I am well satisfied. I am s"till living at 611 West 111th Street and have no immediate pros­pects of any change in residence. Naturally I am unmarried. 
Be sure to put me in touch w^ith Jerry Hayes, Jim, and let me wish the Armstrongs a verj' Happy New-Year. 
Oliver F. Schell, '29." 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth .4ve., New Kensington, Pa., Secretarj-. 
An item of interest to '30 grads is: "W.ALTER F. STANTON, 22-year­old-Gary lawyer, who received his law degree from Notre Dame last June, will be the youngest member of the 1931 legislature of Indiana." 
GEORGE 0'M.A.LLEY, '30, is work­ing in Maurice Rothschild's in Chica­go-
BOB RIGLEY, '30, has gone to the University of North Carolina, where he will continue his studies and in­struct. Bob has picked a good school, a good town and a good season to go South. 
-Ajid here is a letter from the Sec­retary: 
"I'm taking a little vacation here in New York at present. 
"I was over to the Metropolitan Club dance at the Biltmore on Mon­day. It was quite a party with DAN CJVNNON taking all prizes. He even beat out "BUCKY" O'Connor. The place was jammed and the alumni well represented. GEORGE WINK­LER, GENE KENNEDY, LEON ZA­BRINSKIE, ED YORKE, the WALK­ER brothers, RAY McCOLLUM and numerous others were there. 
-ART DENNERY is now attending McGill University in Montreal. LAR­RY CRONIN and TOM BRADLEY are preparing to sail for South .4.mer­ica. 
TOM KENNE.ALLY is teaching at Manhattan College now that his foot­ball season has passed along." 

^^ 
:V.iv,V;i,;j;s63£isSS3 







