The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 38, No. 3 SEPTEMBER, 1960 

•NOTRE DAME 
•ALUMNUS 

NEWS: 
oOUR BELOVED C.^RDIN.A.L OTIAR.\ DIES 
W E HAVE A NEW PRELATE­BISHOP-ELECT MENDEZ 
FIRST NOTRE D.-\ME PILGRIMAGE TO EUROPE 


FEATURES: 

NOTRE DAME MEN OF SCIENCE NICK LAMBER'IO. REPORTER FATHERS AND SONS AT NOTRE DAME 

DEPARTMENTS: 

COMMENCEMENT 1960: UNIVERSAL NOTRE § DAME NIGHT REUNIONS 
EDITORIAL: BUSINESS ST.VrESMEN AND A NEW LIBRARY 
YOU, THE ALUMNI — PART I SELF-STUDY SUR\'EY OF THE 1960 REUNION CLASSES 


THE WHITE HOUSE 
June 7, 1960 
Dear Father Heshurgh: 
Now that I am hack in Washington I want to try to 
tell you hov/ deeply appreciative I am of the honor 
the University of Notre Daire did me in conferring upon me, on Sunday, an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. I am particularly touched hy the sentiments 
set forth in the citation that you presented to me; I hope I shall alv/ays he worthy of the generosity of 
those statements. 
As I am sure you know, I enjoyed greatly heing v/ith you and seeing the splendid young people that comprise the Senior Class and the entire student hody. It was a privilege, too, to meet so many of the memhers of your faculty and to see at first hand the operation of one of our finest and most distinguished Universities. I congratulate you on the great contribution you are making to our country. 
V/ith v/arm regard. 
Sincerely, 


A/»-/*-^A'2^2JC*K Xw-x^ 
•from your ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
Bditoriat Comment Alumni Secretary BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Notre Dame alumni and friends will soon be involved in intensive coopera­tion if the plans for the much needed New Libra:-)' are to be realized. 
Most of you to be so involved will be busy men. 
Most of you are perhaps already in­volved in similar cooperation w i t h the multiple causes tliat claim your contributions. 
J. E. Armstrong 
It would not be unnatural if the old adage, "It is more blessed to give than to receive," is wearing a little thin. 
In line with the Univei-sity's need to enlist your activity, and in line with tlie present pattern of education and philanthropy generally, I have just come across a stoiy which has some direct and significant application. It comes from a business man and busi­ness school, and reflects the fact that our ideals can be based on real con­siderations just as elTectively as our real considerations can be based on ideals. 
"Business Statesmanship" 
The Haivard Business School this year awarded its first recognition for "Business Statesmanship" to Philip R. Clarke, Chicago business leader. In accepting the award Mr. Clarke said several important things, among tliem: 
"The first obser\'ation I would make about business statesmanship is the fact that it can only be found in any de­gree in a free society'. And equally factual is the inability of a free so­ciety, and particularly its handmaiden —free enterprise—to flourish or even survive without an abundance of busi­ness statesmen. 
"I would broadly define a business statesman as any individual who suc­cessfully applies his capabilities par­tially for private profit and partially for non-profit voluntarj' public sen'ice. 
"In tliat definition, I would empha­size tlie word 'voluntar}'' because we know that involuntary public ser\'ice neither reflects nor expresses any of that sense of citizenship responsibility so essential to the preseiA'ation of a republic such as ours. . . . 
". . . it is fairly certain that so long as our people are free to pursue their own destinies, men will be called upon to help one another . . . ." 

It is from business statesmen like Philip Clarke that higher education has enjoyed a constructive interpreta­tion within the last decade which has gone a long way toward averting a still critical problem. The Council for Financial Aid to Education, the match­ing gift alumni programs of 100 lead­ing corporations (listed in this issue of the ALUMNUS), and tlie rise of cor­porate support of all forms of higher education, come from this new and foresighted concept. 
The Leading Schools 

And an obvious corollar)' is that the schools which today are best meet­ing the crisis of our era are those schools which enjoy the participation of these business statesmen from among alumni and friends. 
Har\'ard, Yale, Dartmouth, Prince­ton, Northwestern, Stanford — all tliese schools are engaged in massive efforts to meet the challenges that even the highly endowed colleges and univereities face in our time. Har\'ard is the first to conclude successfully an $82,500,000 capital campaign. The story of that effort is largely summed up in the involvement of its alumni leaders, not only in giving generously, but in the vital apostolate of philan­thropy tliat enjoys distinctive success when business statesmen direct it. 
Notre Dame is similarly embarked on a long-range program that in our histor)' is by far our most challenging. The New Library' is an immediate and a dramatic embodiment of one phase of this plan. 
Our Alumni Leaders 
The success of die Librar)', but even more importantly, the hope for the longer future, will unquestionably rest with the response from our business statesmen, alumni and friends. 
We hope that when the invitation comes, and when you have acceded with your demonstrated loyalt)', you will feel something of the surge of statesmanship indicated, and not just the irritating and handicapping feeling of another job to be done. Our a\­perience indicates that you are in the new categor)' of leaders. 

Officers 

WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 
. Jionorary President JoH.v C. O'Co.N.NOR, '38 Preside!^ JAMES H. SHEILS, '35....Club Vice-President JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 
Class Vice-President PAUL J. CUSHI.NO, '3l...J^und Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
Directors to 1961 

JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. ^ Box 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri W 
JOHN P. DEMPSEV, '49* Kidder, Peabody & Co. 129 S. Broad St., Philadelphia 9, Pa. 
JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, New York, New York 
JOHN- C. O'CO.V.VOR. '38 1000 Fidelity Trust BIdg. Indianapolis, Indiana 

Directors to 1962 _ 

JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 Byrne Pl>-wood Company Royal Oak, Michigan 
PAUL J. CUSHING, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd. 14th & Broadway, Oakland, Calif. 
WALTER FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 


W.
 EDMUND SHE,\, '23 Third National Building Dayton 2, Ohio ^ 



Directors to 1963 

MAURICE J. CARROLL, '19 4944 Lindell Blvd., St. Louis 8, Missouri 
CEORGE L. CO.N-.NOR, '48 209 S. LaSalle St., Room 716 Chicago 4, III. 
WILLIAM P. MAHO.VEY, JR., '38 Suite 1, Luhrs Tower, Phoenix, Arizona 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 72 Eleventh St., N.E., Suite 12 ^ .Atlanta 9, Ga. • 

Chairmen of the 1960 Committees 
J. C. O'CONNOR.. ..Executive 
J. H. SHEILS Club Activities 
J. R. STEWART Class Activities 
P. J. CUSHI.VG _ 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 

J. J. BYRNE Preparatory Schools 
W. L. FLEMING 
Placement and Job Counseling 

J. J. BYRNE. Inter-Alumni Affai^ 
J. R. STEWART..i'rei(ige and Public Relations 
J. H. SHEILS Religion and Citizenship 
J. R. STEWART AND 
J. H. SHEILS Nominations 

W. E. SHEA Budget and Finance 
W. E. SHEA _ Resolutions 
*
 Appointed to fill the unexpired term of Cliarles 

E.
 Rohr, '30, deceased. ^ 


This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Oifice, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 





The Reunions in I960 
t
RELAXiVTION WAS STILL THE KEYNOTE, BUT mirth in the afternoon (Class of '33, left) or foreign policy debate IANIFESTED IN MYRIAD VARIETY by night (Class of '30, right). (Center) Or picnicking in the 
pproxiniatcly 300 participated in the Alumni Golf Tournament, grandeur of Alumni-Dillon Court (left), or golfers refueling at 
and there were enough bridge players to institute a tourney in Morrissey's 19th tee (right). (Below) Or touring a new campus 
that more cerebral sport; there were organized tours and dis­in Merry Oldsmobile and baby bus (Class of '33, left), or hearing 
organized music, rifle shots and reveille, nonsense prizes and [lo-Father Leo Ward (at mike with Class of '30, right) amid rifle 
litical shenanigans — but the favorite recreations seemed to be drill and Dixieland in the Basin Street atmosphere of the Mons 
walking and talking, sitting and talking, standing and talking, Inn's Mahogany Room. Kating and talking, drinking and talking: (Above) It might be 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
25th .XNNIVERS.VRY CL.\SS OF 1935—Their Silver Jubilee set a new record for gimmickry and high living, with derbies, directories, 
diplomas, and deluxe dining. Shown after luncheon with Father Hesburgh, they made shuttle bus or ancient auto. 
The Reunions in I960 
An Eye-witness Report by Jim Armstrong, '25 
I N SU.MMARV, THE 1960 REU.VIO.VS WERE 
OUR BEST TO DATE 
This is a serious statement. It is made with considered and balanced judgment. This was my 35tli reunion. I was there! 
You know the history of the reunions. Once they were a part of the commence­ment weekend. Then rommencement and the reunions began to expand, and their divergent natures emerged In sometimes embarrassing conflict. So we separated them. For a few years we missed the hlgli­lights of the commencement [jrograin—the music, tlie tlieater. the addresses, the pro­cessions, tlie ball game, the faculty recep­tions, etc. Then we began to enjoy the richer fraternity, the more rapid recreation of the campus as we liad known it in our student days, the leisure of the weekend. But inevitably, as younger classes appeared at the reunions, who did not know the older pattern, they felt that the weekend was too long for the relatively few items pro­grammed. They were too young for leisure and we began to hear the requests for more program. 
IT HAS BEEN policy, repeatedly affirmed by your .Mumni board, that the reunions must remain reunions — and not become either seminars to please the intellectuals, nor retreats to please the spiritual. These are available in other channels. But, the board has agreed, we should tr>* to blend all these factors into a pleasant reunion weekend. The balance is not easy to achieve, or to maintain. 
But we think In 1960 we achieved it. 
On Thursday, June 9, the Monogram Day brought a hundred alumni of the great athletic traditions together for their annual meeting and golf day. A separate account of this event will be found in this issue. But the change In voting procedure  three trcfe to the North Dining Hall sans 

% 
and the election of Jack Elder as national 

• president opened a new era in Monogram alumni achievement. Charles Sweeney an ^ Laurence Mullins as succeeding vice-presidents. Bill Earley as continuing secre­tary, assure top administration for the ne.\t three years. The Joe Boland Scholarship provides at least one new Inspiring goal. 
TH E REUNIO.N' I'.\TTER.N' is growing more complex with early arrivals. We are not opposed, but the 200 Thursday night ar­rivals for the weekend did give our mainte­nance, registration and other provisions a ^ early complication. These are reasons for the flexibility of our planning. 
The Class of 1935, for its Silver Jubilee, provided the first visible evidence of new developments — the 1904 Oldsmobilc, and the chartered bus tours of the campus for Its brown-derbied members, detached for the trip from Friday noon on from a con­

40th .VXXn'ERS.VRY CL.\SS OF 1920—Septupling the previous 45th ANNIVERSARY CLASS OF 1915—A personal mail cam­40-year showing, thanks to the efforts of Secretary Jim Ryan, the paign by an industrious connnittee and sonic gentle raiding of '20 Class made this excellent appearance at Saturday "morning neighboring classes brought a record return suggested by these check" while the Golden Jubilee boys apparently slept in. early risers. Regretfully missing was Laetare Medalist George Shuster. ^ 
4 Notre Dante Atutnnus, September, I960 
Tinuous buffet-bar-hcadquartcrs at the Rock­ne Memorial. 
Father Holderith's golf tournament on Friday and Saturday attracted 500 players, with tile prizes listed in this issue. 
.•\LU.M.\I, DILLO.V, LYONS, Morrisscy and Howard halls provided housing for the 1,000 alunmi who registered in the central 
Ca w Building, where the .$20 general fee for the week'jnd still held out its bargain beacon. (Losing ground in the face of ris­ing costs!) Crew hats instead of the base­ball caps lent new shape as well as color to the classes. 
Friday night marked another milestone in reunion development. The night is tra­ditionally left to the classes for their own first fer.'or of reunion — the shaking off of the shackles of the years. This year, all classer moved into a most satisfying, ytt deeper and richer, Friday night program— no less enjoyable but better controlled, better planned, better executed. 
The varv'ing cizes — none large — of the older reunion classes have been a source of concern on occasion. This year, the classes of 1910 (and before), 1915, 1920, and 1925 were joined in their Friday night function under the vcr\' appropriate title of the "Traditions Dinner." This will be continued until a better pattern is indicat­ed, as it spotlighted for the 130 present the traditions of a 60-year span at Notre Dame, and the great stature of Notre Dame alum­ni as reflected in the many celebrities the group contained. John O'Connor, national president of the .Alumni .Association, and .•\lfred C. Ryan, '20,. first lay alumni secre­
.•\T B.VNQUET AND BUFFET. TALKFEST AND TESTIMONIAL. FORMALITY AND INFORMALITY .•\s usual, dress ranged from Bcrnmda shorts to business suits and food from sandwiches to seven-course feasts, but alumni rose to every occasion: (Above) Upstairs in the Rockne Memorial, the Class of '40 combined gourmet food and informal attire, oldest 
wif four classes holding out against ceremony. (Center) .V little "nore solenmity befitted the "Traditions Dinner of the Classes of 1900 through 1925, olficers at the head table including: (seated, 
1. to r.) James Sanford and Robert Roach, '15; William Schmitt, '10; William G. Fcrstel, '00; William D. Jamicson and Daniel J. O'Connor, '05; (standing, I. to r.) Paul Loosen, '20; John Hurley and Don Miller, '25; Alunmi President John C. O'Connor, '38, 
wind James Ryan, '20. Like the Classes of '30 and '35, they hon­ored members of the faculty from their era. (Below) More typical of Friday night, perhaps, was the rela.\ed chatter of the Class of '50 (right), but Saturday evening found 1,000 gathered at the .'Murnni Banquet (left) to hear .Association President John O'Con­nor report on vital programs and University President Rev. Theo­dore Hcsburgh issue a call to greatness. Sur\'eying a sea of alumni from the head table were (1. to r) Rev. Edmund Joyce, C5.C., '37, executive \'ice-president; President O'Connor and Father Hes­hurgh, '38; the toastmastcr, Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong, '25; Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., '32; director of the Notre Dame Foun­dation; senior rcunionist Bill Fcrstel, '00; Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, '31, soon to retire as dean of the College of Science; and Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., '18, golf coach and host of the Alimmi Golf Tournament. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
30th ANTVrVERSARY CLASS OF 1930—"Winning the West" (as well as the slogan contest) with their Winchester 30-30 sj-mboI, Fort Lyons' 30-year ca>-alry were the noisiest and most generous, their guns and bugles signaling a "Scnior-Savcr" loan fund approaching 
tar>-, were the spokesmen for the alumni, with a member of the Class of '25 (your alumni secretary-) as the m.c. 
TH E SATURDAY CU\SS Masses continued in the fine tradition they have already achieved in Class attendance, most of them said by priest-members of the class. Class pictures followed most of the Masses. 
At 11 a.m., in the Law .•\uditorium, more than 100 alumni interested in admissions, campus housing and campus job problems. 
§5,000 by week's end. 
enjoyed a discussion led by Rev. James B. Moran, C.S.C., director of admissions and scholarships, Mr. E. E. Moore, director of student accounts, and Mr. Joseph O'Brien, director of personnel. 
Father Hcsburgh entertained the Class of 1935 at the traditional 25-year Reunion President's luncheon. The Class of 1925 en­joyed a special class luncheon, honoring a deceased classmate, Howard Spencer. The popular box lunches were ser\'cd to other classes at the halls. 

20th ANNTVERSARY CLASS OF 1940—Outshone by none in delicatessen, the pre-Pearl Harbor Alumni were the ent-y of all for their sea food smorgasbord, prime rib sandwiches and generous grog. 
15lh ANNIVERSARY CLASS OF 1945—A high percentage of V-12 Pacific vets staged a shore leave with almost totally liquid diet, some wardroom politics, a "Weil-Done" to retiring "Exec" Al Lesmez. 
TH E URGE FOR a richer intellectual pro­gram during the reunion weekend has been voiced. The idea is not new. (I remember waiting one bright Saturday years ago witli three Deans at Washington Hall to discus9 the more serious side of alumni life. The ultimate crowd — three Deans and I.) But always we remain flexible because minds do change. However — and this is confes­sion — we decided this year to test the validity of the demand by scheduling three attractive but rather solid topics simul­taneously. 
We were most happy, then, when at 3:30 on a reasonably nice Saturday afternoon^ more than 40 alumni appeared in the La\ 9 Auditorium to hear Prof. Bernard Ward discuss Civil Rights; more than another 40 appeared in the .Art Galleries to hear Prof. Frank Keegan discuss Leadership and the Liberal .Arts, and more than 75 appeared ill the Engineering Auditorium to hear Dean James Culliton, Prof. John Maione and Prof. James Dincolo discuss Business Trends in the U. S. We feel that the per­centage more than validates the demand, and the 1961 program will be pursued ac^^ cordingly to what we feel now will be in­creasing interest and ad\'antage. (The re­actions of our 1960 attendants are of course welcome as planning factors). 
In addition to these programs. Engineer­ing and Science welcomed alumni to open house inspection, and the Law School held its traditional Law Association cocktail party. 

HIGHLIGHT OF ALL the recent reunion^ has been the annual Alumni Banquet, held on Saturday night in the new North Din­ing Halls this year with a "wall-to-ivall" attendance of 1,000. The address of the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh was another of the inspiring annual presidential high­lights to which returning alumni look for­ward. The place of Notre Dame in th ^ Catholic educational sun took on a worli ^ significance in Father Hesburgh's analysis which makes his commitment to excellence and his plans for both academic and phy­sical future siartlingly graphic and immi­nent. The program of the Alumni Asso­ciation , to keep pace with the University'^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September^ I960 
35th ANNIVERSARY CLASS OF 1925—Inured by years of autumn meetings, the '25ers convened as eagerly as their Horsemen and 
Mules used to show up for the spring drills 
ll 
growth and needs was most ably presented in summar>* outline by Association Presi­dent John O'Connor, '38. 
Weather finally caught up with the Re­union, and the planned Mass at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdcs was held in Sacred Heart Church at 9 a.m. on Sunday morn­ing. Another new departure in reunion pro­
l^ram, coming as the result of a request 
Trom the Class Secretaries Conference, was a convocation in Washington Hall at 10:30, to close the reunion weekend with a dis­cussion led by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., on the Evaluation of Catholic Higher Education. 
ALUMNI GOLF TOURNAMENT June 10-11, 1960 1^ Total Players—500 Weather: Ideal 36 HOLE TOURNAMENT Winner Gross Charles Novak, 35 74-75=149 Runner-Up Lou Haley, '50 71-83=154 Driving Contest Distance Rex Ellis, '40 313 Runner-Up Tony Cella, '40 260 
Classes 1913 Through 1934 18 HOLE TOURNAMENT Winner Gross Tom McDougal, '30 81 Runner-Up Bob Hellrung, '30 84 Driving Contest Distance Tom McDougal, '30 255 Rimner-Up 
Tom Lantry, '30 243 Blind Bogey 71 to 80 Blind Bg. Bemie Livergood, '23 75 
Classes 1933 Through 1955 
18 HOLE TOURNAMENT 
Winner Gross Bob Rolfs, '50 78 (Drew for 1st) 
Runncr-Up 
Jim Clynes, '45 78 Driving Contest Distance John Johnson, '45 295 Runner-Up Distance Jim Clynes, '43 288 Blind Bogey 71 to 80 Blind Bg. Joe Turk, '55 73 

 of K. K. Rockne, organized their elders in pioneering the Traditions Diimer to toast 
 former mentors. 

MORE TIIAX 250 alumni remained for this closing highlight of the weekend, again justifying the belief in the desire of a large number of returning alumni for real sub­stance in our program. In addition to the attendance, the questions and answers in­dicated a most active and aggressive in­terest and participation by a widespread group of alumni in the problems and pro­grams of continuing intellectual life. 
As one who has watched reunions every year they have been held for this 35-year period; as one who knows the reunion pro­grams and patterns of other schools; as one who was a participant in this year's 35th, and a resident of the campus for the week­end; and as one who has officially tried to blend all the fine ideas advanced by young and old, athletic and intellectual, material and spiritual, rich and poor, near and far, 
— I offer my judgment that the 1960 weekend caune the closest to the present formula for success. 
We owe a debt of gratitude to the cam­pus stair who organize the physical facili­ties; to the University for its below-cost hospitality; to the faculty who participated in many of the programs; to the class offi­cers who planned many of the reunions; and particularly to the local reunion com­mittees of the classes who contributed much of the originality and extras for the occa­
lOth ANNIVERSARY CLASS OF 1950—Pre-Korean grads gathered with little promptiiig, rehashed their occupation and Oriental experience with more perspective, less pain, than five years ago. 
5th ANNIVERSARY CLASS OF 1955—Low-pressure promotion brought a representative turn-out, gay but decorous, comparing notes on business, professions, art, science and — of course — the military. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 



The Reunions in I960 
ALONG WITH SPORT AND FEASTING, FOOD AND 
DRINK FOR MIND AND SOUL It was still a reunion, not a symposium or retreat, but between bufTcts and banquets and midnight snacks, besides golf and bull sessions, music and revelry, men who sought thcni could find havens of intellectual or spiritual refreshment in the panels, lectures and seminars of the Alumni Forums or College Open Houses, in li­braries and galleries, in Mass and Communion and visits to favorite campus chapels and shrines: (Above) Commerce Dean James Cul­liton (left) leading a panel of department heads — Accountancy's James Dincolo and Marketing's John Malonc — in a stimulating discussion of business trends; (right) John Cackley, editor of NOTRE DAME Magazine, introducing the Law School's Bernard Ward for a lively treatment of civil rights. (Center) An cxamina­tion of enrollment prospects for alunmi sons (left) featured three departmental directors shown upper right. Student Accounts' Enicrit '*Mikc" Moore, standing, .Admissions' Father James Moran and Personnel's Joseph O'Brien, seated; while the O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery (right), resplendent with faculty works, was a perfect setting for Dr. Frank Keegan's presentation on liberal arts leader­ship and the Executive Seminars, introduced by Almnni Secretary^ James Armstrong. (Below) At a closing convocation in Washing-" ton Hall (left), -Armstrong and alumni envoy Father Thomas O'Donnell hear Father John Cavanaugh deliver a fitting valedic­tory on Catholics and the intellectual life; and at the Alumni Mass in Sacred Heart Church (right), the ancient Irish custom of "hitting the rail" echoes activity at Class Memorial Masses in all the hall chapels. 
8 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
employed by the companies in the ad­joining columns: 
1. Neither industry* nor higher educa­

tion desire to. invade the pri\'acy of the 



OBEY THAT 
indivndual corporate alumnus. W^hat you give and when you give it remain your 

SECOND IMPULSE 
A Note from J. E. Armstrong 
In May, I attended an Interesting con­of the matching gift companies and higher 
ference on matching gifts, held in New education. 
York City under the aegis of the American Here arc some summar\- conclusions of 
Alumni Council, featuring representatives interest to you. especially to you who arc 
COMPANIES WITH MATCHING GIFT 
PROGRAMS IN EFFECT 
.-Mlegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation International Business Machines Corp. .American and Foreign Power Company Jefferson Mills, Inc. American Brake Shoe Company S. C. Johnson & Son. Inc. 
American Home Products Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation Atlas Powder Company Kaiser Steel Corporation .Atlas Rigging and Supply Company Walter KIddc & Company Bank of New York Walter Kidde Constructors Whitney Blake Company Kidder, Pcabody & Company Bonwit Teller Koiled Kords, Inc. Burlington Industries Lehigh Portland Cement Company 
McCormick & Company Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc. 
McGraw-Hill Publishing Company Campbell Soup Company Manufacturers Trust Company Canadian General Electric Co.. Ltd. 
Marine ^Midland Trust Company Carter Products, Inc. 
Maytag Company Cerro de Pasco Corporation Medusa Portland Cement Company Chase Manhattan Bank Merck & Company. Inc. 
Chemical Bank New York Trust Company Metal and Thermit Corporation Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company Morgan Engineering Company Columbian Carbon Company National Distillers Products Corporation Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. 

National Lead Company Connecticut Light & Power Company National Supply Company Continental Oil Company .\ew York Trap Rock Company Corning Glassworks Northrop Corporation Dcering, MIHiken & Company John Nuveen & Company Diamond .Alkali Company Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation Dow Chemical Company Petro-Te.x Chemical Corporation Dow Coming Corporation Phelps Dodge Corporation Draper Corporation Pitney-Bowt's, Inc. 
Wilbur B. Driver Company 

Ralston Purina Company Eljasco Sen-Ices, Inc. Reliable Ek-ctric Company 
Electric Bond & Share Company Schering Corporation Fafnir Bearing Company Scott Paper Company General .Atronics Corporation Seton Leather Company General Electric Company Sharon Steel Corponitlon General Foods Corporation Simmons Company General Public Utilities Singer Nfanufacturlng Company Gibbs & HilK Inc. Smith, Kline &: French Laboratories GInn and Company Sperr\' & Hutchinson Corporation Glidden Company Stevens Candy Kitchens. Inc. 
B. F. Goodrich Company Tektronix, Inc, 
W. T. Grant Company Tennessee Gas Transmission Company Gulf Oil Corporation 'I'owers, Pcrrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc. Harrls-Intertype Corporation United Clay Mines Corporation Hercules Powder Company Wallingford Steel Company Hewlett-Packard Company Warner Brothers Company Hill .Acme Company John Wiley & Sons. Inc. Hooker Chemical Corporation Williams & Company 
J. M. Huber Corporation Worcester Pressed Steel Company Hughes -Aircraft Company Young & Rublcam, Inc. 
business. 
2.
 Most companies do not wish to give out lists (some simply cannot) of alumni employes to their respective colleges. 

3.
 Most colleges cannot afford separate personal solicitation programs for corporate alumni. 

4.
 The primary- purpose of the matching gift plan was — and is — to provide a plan whereby business and industry can help higher education through a formula which Is really based on the help given to higher education by its o\%*n alumni. {All representatives felt that this matching gift plan was good but should not be the only or panacea program for the corpora­tion.) 

5.
 Business and industr>- representatives agreed that the company plans had some­times not been made known adequately to employes, but stressed that this information is readily available on request through com­pany channels. 

6.
 In many companies the matching gift program has been extended to include gifts from all employes to any college. This ex­tends the opportunity for alumni to secure additional gifts from non-alumni fellow workers, and have these gifts matched by the company. 

7.
 Most companies have expanded the amounts eligible for matching gifts. 

8.
 BOTH THE CORPOR.ATE ANT) EDUCATION.AL REPRESENTATIVES FELT TH.AT THE MATCHING PL.AN H.AD BEEN DISAPPOINTING T O D.ATE IN BOTH .AMOUNT ANT) PAR­TICIPATION. BUT AGREED TH.AT THIS SEEMS NOW TO STEM FROM THE RELUCTA.\CE OF BOTH COM­P.AN^' AND SCHOOLS TO USE .ANY FORM OF PRESSURE ON THE COR­POR.ATE ALUMNUS. 


Now — in the last four years, Notre Dame has received $15,881.38 from this relatively new source. It is new money, and unrestricted. 
The growth of the idea is reflected in the three corporations that supplied match­ing gifts in 1956 to the twenty-three rep­resented In 1959. 
But If all alumni in these 100 companies participated, Notre Dame would benefit im­measurably — and from gifts cheerfully added by the corporations. (Princeton re­ceived 115 gifts from its 141 General Elec­tric alumni, to show how attainable such a hope is.) 
So, if your first impulse on these com­pany matching gifts has been that it is none of their business — OBEY THE SEC­ONT) IMPULSE. Give as your circum­stances dictate. The only change will be that your company will duplicate it and your University will benefit doubly from your thoughtfulness. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
first Notre Dame Pilgrimage to Europe 
An Audience with his Holiness Pope John XXIII and private Masses at the Lourdes Grotto, St. Peter's in Rome, Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris, and St. Francis' Tomb in Assisi — these were religious high­lights of the Notre Dame European Pil­grimage I960. .And many a Frenchman or Italian was surprised to sec almost 100 .Americans receive Holy Communion in each of these places. 
The 96 Notre Dame alumni and friends were the first pilgrimage ever to fly di­rectly from the United States to Lourdes and were aboard the largest plane (a TW.A Super Constellation) ever to land at the Lourdes Airport. Other happenings that will be remembered for years were being im-ited to cocktails by the Lord Mayor of Dublin; the St. Patrick's Day party with the Notre Dame Club of Rome, which in­cluded almost everjone of Irish inclination in the Holy City; watching French Presi­

dent DcGauUe and Chairman Khrushchev enter the brilliantly lit and guarded (even from the roofs) Paris Opera House while over a hundred thousand Frenchmen shouted and waved flags both for and against the Communists on the sidewalks below the hotel windows. 
.Additional never-to-be-forgotten items 

ALL ABOARD FOR EUROPE." The Pilgrimage just before take-ofif from New York. 
Father Charles I. McCarragher, C.S.C., Pilgrimage Chaplain, celebrated Mass for the Pilgrims at the Grotto at Lourdes. Notice the crutches left hanging at the upper left These few have been left hanging to represent the thousands that have been removed. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, I960 
were their first seven-course continental din­ner; the baths taken at Lourdes; the won­derful European food (especially Italian); hearing the Seminarians sing "Notre Dame, Our Mother" at Holy Cross Headquarter!) in Rome; and just seeing all the places the pilgrims heard about all their lives. 
The Pilgrimage was the result of the idea of an Alumnus, Edward C. Roney, Jr., '43, of Detroit who thought that many more of the Notre Dame Family would make such group pilgrimages if an interesting j itinerary at an attractive price was pre-I sented them. Ed organized and led this I 24-day tour for $850 per person and th< )' 96 people on the chartered plane (plus five stand-bys who took regular commercial flights to and from Europe but joined the others on the Continent) are a positive in­dication of its success. 
The Pilgrimage brought additional atten­tion to Notre Dame throughout Europe when articles and pictures about it ap­peared in papers in most of the cities visited. One item that made headlines and news­reels around the world should be clarificd|'J 
FATHER HAGERTY REPORTS 
Rev. Cornelius Hagcrty, C.S.C., sent the following from Europe, where he encountered the Notre Dainc pil­grims during his Golden Jubilee tour of shrines and art treasures through­
•> 
out Ireland and the Continent. He wrote in part: 
"I was at Lourdes on March 12 when a party of 100 N.D. alunmi and their wives visited the shrine. 1 missed them there, but caught up with them at Rome where they attended Mass yesterday at Holy Cross Semi­nary. I met AI Ryan, John McMulIin 
t$ 
and several other old pupils and friends. 
"Father Patrick O'Reilly (oblate) who is acting at Lourdes as adviser and chaplain of English speaking pil­grims, told me how he was edified by the group. They had been up all night on the plane, yet all attended Mass at Lourdes and received Holy Com­munion. I asked John McMulIin and Father McCarragher if they took the bath and was surprised to find they did. This was remarkable because they were only at Lourdes one day and were tired after crossing the ocean. It is a sign of faith and proof of one's 
D
confidence in supernatural assistance to take the bath after a good night's rest. The group received Holy Com­munion at Mass yesterday (St. Joseph's Day)." 

The Notre Dame Pilgrims before St. Peter's in Rome. It's approximately two city blocks from the Pilgrimage banner to the main door of St. Peter's. 
however. While all the Pilgrims contributed in some degree and were at the presenta­tion, the Pilgrimage itself did not give the car to Pope John XXIII. This was princi­pally a gift of a few Notre Dame alumni 
^n d friends from Detroit spearheaded by ^V. Jerome .Ashley, several of whom also made the Pilgrimage. 
In spring 1961 two Pilgrimages are planned. The first will repeat the success­ful 1960 Pilgrimage of Lourdes, Rome, Florence, Lucerne, Paris, London and Dublin and also include Venice. This is often called the Grand Tour, and N'aria­tions will be offered to suit ever>'onc's taste. In addition, next year the "Sophomore IfTour" will be offered. The name comes from the idea that most of those making this tour will have already been to Europe at least once sometime in the past and therefore will be interested in seeing those places usually missed on the Grand Tour. The "Sophomore Tour" will visit Portu­gal, Spain (including Majorca), .-Vustria and Germany, and will revisit Rome, which it |secms no one can see too often. -Again, \-ariations will be available to suit all tastes. If you are interested in either of these 
trips, you should write immediately to "Pilgrimage," Notre Dame, Indiana, as only one plane can be filled for each trip. The Pilgrims grouped around the presentation car receiving the blessing of Our Holy A brochure with the complete details will Father, Pope John XXIII. He also gave an inspiring talk which included thanking them 
|be mailed to all who request it. for the car given in the name of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September^ I960 21 

ELECTION 
Mr. .-Mbert H. Monacelli, '34, of New-York City was re-elected President of the Notre Dame Law Association at the an­nual meeting at The Law School on June 
11. Also elected were: Honorary President, Roger P. Brcnnan, '33, of Cleveland, Ohio; Vice President, Mr. Robert F. Graham, '28, of Chicago, 111.; Sccretarj'-Trcasurer, Wil­liam T. Huston, '51L, of Los Angeles, Cal.; and Executive Secretar>-, Thomas L. Mur­ray, '51L, of South Bend, Ind. 
Newly elected directors of the Association arc: Honorable William B. Lawless, '44L, of Buffalo, N. Y.; Honorable John C. Mow­bray, '49L, of Las Vegas, Ne\-ada: Mr. Frederick K. Baer, '36L, of South Bend, Ind.: and Mr. Camille F. Gravel, Jr., of Alexandria, La. 
Directors previously elected and contin­uing in office, in addition to the officers, arc: Mr. John J. Locher, Jr., '36L, of Ce­dar Rapids, Iowa; Mr. J. Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, of Pittsburgh, Pa.; Mr. Francis X. Fallon, '33, of Grand Rapids, Mich.; and Mr. Joseph P. McNamara, '29L, of Bridge­port, Conn. 


LAW HONOR BANQUET 
The President of the .\merican Bar As­sociation, Mr. John D. Randall of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, were the featured speakers at the Law Honor Banquet on Friday, April 29. 
This annual affair affords an opportunity to salute the members of the graduating class and, at the same time, to recognize 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 
the achievements of all members of the stu­dent body who have distinguished them­selves in one way or another. In addition, as last year, it was the occasion for a joint obser\-ance of L.AW D.AY US.'\ by the No­tre Dame Law School and the St. Joseph County Bar .Association. Mr. Randall spoke on the influence of religion on law. 
Mr. Randall's predecessor as President of the American Bar Association, Mr. Ross 
L. Malonc, addressed last year's Law Honor Banquet and his successor, who will be formally installed as president of the Ameri­can Bar .-Association at the annual meeting in Washington in August, Mr. Whitney North Seymour of New York City, will be the featured speaker in 1961. 
In introducing Mr. Randall, Dean O'­Meara pointed out that L.-VW D.-\Y US.-\ should be the occasion for an examination of conscience on the part of the legal pro­fession, as w-cU as an occasion for paying homage to an ideal and for celebrating our achievements. Dean O'Meara's remarlts follow-: 
".•\s Father John Courtney Murray has pointed out, 'there is a virtue in the West-em tradition of law that w-arrants us in calling it redemptive. Western man,' he says, 'has sought in the idea of law a manifold redemption — from the arbitrary-despotism of uncontrolled power; from the threat or fact of injustice to his person or his property-; from dispossession of his hu­man and his civil rights; from the degrada­tion that ensues upon social inequalities de­structive of his personal significance and worth; from disruption of his life by the irrational forces of passion, caprice and change.' Today we reaffirm our faith in that tradition and rededicatc ourselves to 
the Rule of Law. "At the same time, we confront the shameful and tragic fact that right now, today, LAW DAY VS\ 1960, the police-state thrives in America — not, thank God, throughout the country but, unhappily, in parts of it. By all accounts that is the situ­ation, for example, in Birmingham, .-Ma­bama. There, instead of Hitler's gcstapo terrorizing the Jew-S, Bull Connor's gestapo terrorizes the Negro population and all w-ho seek to befriend them. "In every community, there are those whose latent sadistic drives can be fed and strengthened and unleashed by the brutal tactics of an ambitious, brutal leader. The result is terror, fostered and protected by public officials — at times, indeed, assum­ing the guise of law. That appears to have happened in Birmingham and, unhappily, not only in Birmingham. Sooner or later it w-ill happen in every community lacking leadership w-hich is not only competent but courageous. "It is well to remember, therefore, the words of Sir James Stephen: . . - the whole legal profession is a pre-eminently manly one. It is a calling in w-hich success is impossible to the w-eak or timid, and in which evcr>-one, judge or barrister, is expected to do his duty* u-ith­out fear or favor to the best of his ability and judgment. "Law schools do not discharge their re­sponsibility simply by turning out skilled technicians. There should be in every law-school — and I hope there is in ours — a tradition of public ser\-ice. .At Notre Dame we will accomplish our mission only as we further develop that tradition and produce la^vyers of the highest professional com­petence w-ho have the moral and physical courage — the guts — to resist a political boss like Bull Connor and his goons. 

1960 
"One aspect of public ser\-ice which re­ceives far too little attention and needs to be upgraded in public esteem is law en­forcement. Crime in our day is a public problem of increasing urgency, and poses a grooving challenge. It would be greatly in the public interest if more educated, talented young men were to respond to that challenge and dedicate themselves to the w-ar against lawlessness — in and oug-N of public office, 
"Without Iaw-\-ers there can be no law and w-ithout law brute force reigns supreme. Law is the rational and moral alternative to the arbitrary rule of brute force. But this is true onlv to the extent that law\-ers make it so. Thus LAW DAY USA shduld be more than an occasion for paying hom­age to an ideal and celebrating our achieve­ments. It should be the occasion, also, for profound soul-searching on the part of the. legal profession." »7 
BOB SULLIVAN HONORED 
Dean Robert E. Sullivan, '46L, of Mon­tana State University College of Law-, a member of the Faculty of the Notre Dame Law School before his appointment as Law Dean at Montana, has received an unusual honor. A resolution commending him was adopted by the Executive Committee of the Montana Bar .Association. The resolution follows: Q 
"WHERE.AS the Executive Committee 
of the Montana Bar .Association has been 
and now- is acutely cognizant of the dili­
gence, perseverance and zeal of Dean Rob­
ert E. Sullivan of the College of Law of 
Montana State University, and 
"WHERE.AS, by his efforts, he has made 
great contributions to both the young law­
yers and the older practitioners of law, now-
therefore 
"BE IT RESOLVED by the Executive 
Committee of the Montana Bar .AssociatioilJ 
that this resolution of commendation and 
thanks to Dean Robert E. Sullivan be signed 
by the President of the Montana Bar .-Asso­
ciation and attested by the secretary- and 
sent to Dean Sulli\-an, to the President of 
the State University, and to the Governor 
of the State of Montana." 
PRIZE WINNERS 
The Law-yers Title .Award, provided an­
nually by the Law-ycrs Title Insurance Cor­
poration of Richmond, Virginia, to thtil' 
student selected by the Faculty for excel­
lence in the law of real property, w-as 
aivardcd to Mr. John .-V. Slevin, '60L, of 
Peoria, Illinois. 
Winners of the Will Drafting Contest, 
sponsored annually by the Merchants Na­
tional Bank and Trust Company of Indi­
anapolis, Indiana, w-ere Mr. James S. Tay­
lor, '60L, of Elkhart, Indiana, and Mr. 
Lester F. Murphy, Jr., '60L, of Hammond(-1j 
Indiana. (Continued on page 24) 
Wann thanks to all who contri­buted to the Notre Dame Law Scholarship Fund and to all (and there were many) who worked hard to make the scholarship campaign a success. 
Albert H. Monacelli, Pres., Notre Dame Law- /\ssn. Joseph O'Meara, Dean, Notre Dame Law School 

Among Perry Como, David McDonald, Stan Musial and Other Prominent Parent-Visitors of 1959-60, Sports Columnist Red Smith Stands Out Because He Represents a Tradition of 
Fathers and Sons at Notre Dame 
Since General William T. Sherman, in­creasing numbers of distinguished or other­wise prominent parents have sent their sons to Notre Dame. In recent years the children of entertainers like tenor Morton Downey and radio star Don McNeill have contributed their talents to the life of the University. The past academic year was 
Qypical in the number of noted visitors: baseball immortal Stan Musial of the St. Louis Cardinals appeared at the testimonial dinner for the football team; labor leader David J. McDonald, president of the United Steclworkers of .America, appeared on the Student Senate's Distinguished Lecturer Series; while singer Perr\- Como, a leading television personality, was a local attraction merely by sauntering through the lobby of the Morris Inn. 
But sportswritcr Walter Wellesley Smith, who appeared as a lecturer for the depart­ment of communication arts, was another story. Red Smith, widely syndicated sports columnist for the New York Herald-Tri­bune, is an alumnus of the Notre Dame Class of 1927, a classmate of former Demo­cratic National Chairman Paul Butler and the late beloved Joe Boland. Red is one of many prominent alumni who have sent their sons to Notre Dame. 
There is no need to write much about Red Smith. He has been profiled at great 
^ Journalists Terry Smith, '60, (left) and Walter W. (Red) Smith, '27 
With the Stamford Advocate, a chip off the old award-winning block? 

Hank Frawley, '60, (left) with Mr. & Mrs. Henry J. Frawley, St., '14 
Meanwhile, back at the ranch, a grad student and a three-time graduate. 
President Dick Corbett of the Class of '60 (right) introduces Father Hesburgh for an address to the Class in May. Dick is the son of Donald J. Corbett, '28. 
length in such magazines as Newsweek and Esquire, interviev/ed by Edward R. Mur­row on Person to Person, and praised for his style by such divergent celebrities as novelist Ernest Heming%vay and his patron, the late sportswriting dean Grandand Rice. Universally considered the world's greatest sportswritcr and called by some "the best newspaperman writing in English today," Red has inherited the mantle of Ring Lardner and Damon Runyon. Named "Sportswritcr of the Year" by a national jurj- of his peers in 1960, Red has achie\'ed the "triple crown" of his craft, the Na­tional Headliners Club award in 1945, the Grantland Rice Memorial award in 1956, the Catholic Institute of the Press award in 1958, and many others. The only way to characterize him is to quote his salty prose. Red's son Terr>-wss graduated wt h the Class of '60 and hopes to follow in his dad's footsteps on the Advocate in their home town, Stamford, Conn. 
.Although few alumni parents are as cele­brated as Red Smith, many have achieved a comparable prominence in business and industry, the arts, sciences and professions. .And some can claim unique distinctions in their own right as alumni. Henr>- J. Frawley, '14, of Spearflsh, S. D., wonders how many alumni parents — or alumni non-parents, for that matter — have been graduated from the Minims, the Prep School and the University. .Although a Carroll Hall denizen from the beginning, Henr>-finished the eighth grade, high school and college at Notre Dame. -A rancher near Spearfish, Henry is active in the Black Hills N. D. Club, and his son, Henr>-, Jr., '60, intends to supplement his Commerce degree and theatrical experi­ence at Notre Dame with graduate work in drama. Mrs. -Ann Hanna Frawley is a niece of the late .Archbishop Hanna of California, a cousin of Notre Dame's Prof. James Corbett, and attended Dominican College in San Rafael, California. 
Not the least enterprising of the '60 grads is Class President Richard Corbett of Rochester, N. Y. The son of Donald Cor­bett, '28, Dick was present as an oiBcial participant and newspaper correspondent at both the Democratic and Republican 1960 National Conventions. 


Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 13 


NOTRE DAME MEN OF SCIENCE « 
Tradition of Excellence Bequeathed by Dean Baldinger to Dean-elect Rossini Symbolized by 200 Distinguished Alumni and Pioneering Accomplishments of Pathologist Hartung. '41; Biochemist Blohm, '42; PsycAiafrisf Nenno, '4^ 
WHEX DR. FREDERICK D. Rossini, former Universit>''s Stritch School of Medicine, by chemistr)- head and research director at high ranking for Notre Dame men in med­the Carnegie Institute of Technolog>-, suc­ical schools and competitive exams across ceeds Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger (M.S. the nation, and dozens of letters from '31, PhX). '33) as dean of the College of young physicians everj- year la\Tshing thanks Science this fall, he will take over an ade­for his help and encouragement. quate physical plant in the midst of ex­Dr. Baldinger has had a role in the de­pansion. More important, he will inherit a velopment of most N.D. men listed in tradition of scientific excellence befitting recent volumes of American Men of his international reputation in education Science, but many others, not yet listed, and research. have made widely heralded achievements 
which they credit in part to their Notre 
Dame beginnings. 
.A new, faster and less expensive test 
for pregnancy was recently announced by 
Walter H. Hartung, Jr., 'M.D., '41, pa­
thologist at St. Charles Hospital, Toledo, 
Ohio, with a paper published in the 
American Journal of Obstetrics and Gyn­
ecology. The discovery involves the use of 
an electroplating test which records changes 
on electrodes that can be interpreted by 
the physician from photoelectric readings. 
Dr. Baldinger Dr. Rossini The test can be made in less than a minute, while the usual "rabbit" test using ani­In a time of feverish scientific competi­mals requires from one hour to two days. 
tion with the sovietizcd world, he will be Further studies have been made to refine comforted to know that this tradition is the process, and results compiled and a living one—neither hastily assembled in readied for a report in the medical journals. 
a "crash" program nor a former glor\­
remembered in atrophy. 

Dr. Hartung noted that the studies in­.•\mong the early landmarks recalled by 
dicate the test may be even more \'aluable ever)' freshman are Jerome Greene's first 
in the early recognition of certain compli­wireless message on this continent, -Albert 
cations during pregnancy, making im­Zahm's founding modem aeronautical 
mediate treatment possible. It has accurate­science. Father Julius Nieuwland's discovery­
ly indicated labor and ovulation in recent of the chemical formula for s\'nthetic rub­
trials. Underlining the relatively new re­ber, etc. But this tradition continued with 
lationship between the biochemist and James Reyniers (germfree research) , 
electronic engineer as part of the re­Charles Price (the Rh factor). Dr. Charles 
search and hospital team, Walter Hartung Hufnagel (artificial heart valve), Drs. 
has been working on the project for more Kenneth Campbell, Robert Nelson and 
than five years with an electronic specialist. John Vaichulis (drugs and vaccines). It 
He believes that in the future the electro-has continued on campus with names like Branibel, Trexler, Waldman, Ward, re­search from "abcoulomb" to "zj'gote." But' Notre Dame's strength in science, like the strength of any universit>-, must iJtimately be gauged by her alumni in science rather than the research on her campus. Inspiration is not the ri\-al of exploration but its necessary' antecedent in education, and it is mth inspiration that Dean Baldinger has e-xcelled. In 30 years at the University, as head of pharmacy, professor of chemistr\', assistant dean and for 17 years dean of the College of Science, he has known thousands of Notre Dame students of science. A worthy successor to giants like Fathers .'Me.xander Kirsch and Francis Wenninger, he has been particu­larly effective as advisor to premcdical stu­dents and will continue in that capacity as associate dean. His influence is demon­strated by 18 M.D. degrees to his alumni Dr. Walter H. Hartung, Jr., '41 in the 1960 graduating class of Loyola For pregnancy, a new electronic test. 
'14 Noire Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
plating method will be an important ad­junct in the diagnosis and treatment of 
disease. 
A "doctor's doctor," Walter took an -A.B. at Notre Dame, although his chief interest beyond philosophy and athletics was chem­istr)-. He completed medical studies awj Loyola in Chicago and went into military servnce as a medical officer in Europe be­fore returning to his native Toledo and the pathology department at St. Charles. A member of the -American College of Pathologists and diplomate of the American Society of Clinical Pathologists, he has been supported in his projects by a grant from the hospital's i^search foundation. Walter and his wife Beatrice (a graduate of Notre Dame Academy, Toledo, and aifil X-Ray technician) have two sons and three daughters, the youngest five months old. He is a member of the Toledo N.D. Club. 
In recent months eveiyone has read about MER-29 (triparanol), an exciting new drug designed to reduce production of cholesterol, a substance linked with heart and \*ascular disease. The discoverer of the drug's effect is Dr. Thomas R. Blohm, '42, head of the biochemistry de-^ partment of the Wm. S. Merrell Co.'J scientific division in Cincinnati. 
The pearl gray substance, taken by mouth in capsule form, inhibits the body's production of the fatty substance implicated as a cause of atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), in which blood vessels be­come brittle and possibly clogged with fatty deposits leading to heart attacks and strokes, the principal causes of death in the U.S. Dr. Blohm directed a rcscarch-« team which established through \'arious tests'* that the drug partially blocks cholesterol biosynthesis at a late stage in its forma­tion. His work supplemented development of the preparation by Frank P. Polopoli, a Merrell organic chemist and graduate of Duqucsne University. Tom Blohm helped to design the drug as a result of hundreds of tests, and it underwent clinical trials on thousands of patients before its introduc­tion for prescription by doctors. (j 
Like Walter Hartung, Tom was a mem­ber of Notre Dame's Chemist's Club, mod­erated by Prof. Baldinger. A chemical en­gineering graduate, he worked as an ap­prentice engineer for U.S. Gj-psum while taking graduate work at Northwestern. Offered an Abbott fellowship, he switched to biochemistry' for his M.S. and Ph.D While grading papers he met Marion Fahi(j whom he married in Houston, Tex., where he had gone in 1948 to teach biochemistiy at the University of Texas. Joining Merrell's pharmacolog)- department, later split off to head the biochemistry department, Tom has been in Cincinnati ever since. He and 
Dr. Thomas Blohm, '42 (left), with MER-29 Synthesizer Frank Palopoli 
After prayer by a Merrcll chemist, 

Marion have a pre-school daughter, Pa­tricia Ann, and Tom has been active with the Catholic Big Brothers. South Bend bom 
0(his mother, the former Ramona Slatterj-, is a St. Marj-'s grad), he grew up in Chica­go, where his father is an advertising man with the Tribune. 
Tom sincerely believes the development of MER-29 was an answer to his prayer for the success of the team's project, dis­cover)- of a drug which might be effective against atherosclerosis. He is cautious about making claims and embarrassed by the ex­travagance of some wire stories and news-
Opaper accounts before the preparation's full i significance can be established by years of testing. Particularly grateful to Dean Baldinger and the late Rev. John Lane, C.S.C., is Robert P. Nenno, M.D., '43, a pioneer in Catholic psychiatry. Now chairman of the department of psychiatry at Seton Hall College of Medicine and Dentistry, Dr. Nenno instituted the first fully accredited psychiatric residency program under Cathb-Wlic auspices in the U.S. After medical school at Loyola and in­ternship in Buffalo, N.Y., Bob Nenno trained in psychiatr>* at Veterans Adminis­tration hospitals under the auspices of the University of Minnesota and Northwestern. During the Korean War he was a medical officer at Great Lakes, Charleston and 
Bethcsda Naval Hospitals. Chief of Psy­chiatry and Neurology Capt. George W. .•^Raines took an interest in him and recom­mended him to the Central Intelligence Agency, where he ser\'cd in 1953 until Capt. Raines asked him to ser\'e under him as assistant director of psychiatry at Georgetown University Medical School. Georgetown was the first Catholic insti­tution with a full psychiatric training program, and Bob initiated the retarded 
, ^ children's program at its hospital besides being instrumental in establishing a medi­cal student and psychiatric residencj* pro­gram at District of Columbia General Hospital. 
During the Georgetown years Bob helped design psychiatric hospitals and \vings, , ^ worked on research for Operation Deep 
a capsule to check cholesterol count. 
Freeze and experimented on integrating psychiatry- into a medical school curricu­lum with Georgetown's professor of internal medicine. When the latter accepted the chair of internal medicine at Seton Hall, Bob followed in 1958 to set up a psy­chiatry department. It is the newest college of medicine in the U.S. and the only one in New Jersey, located in a magnificent 3,000-bed medical center in Jersey Cit>-, where, as at Georgetown, he watches the progress of medical students from Notre Dame. 
Diplomatc of the National Board of Medical E.xaminers and the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurolog>-, Bob is a member of several medical associations and societies for neuropsychiatry and ps)-­choanalysis. He and his wife, the former Mar>' Stasson (of Minneapolis and St. Catherine's College), have four small chil­dren—Mar)- Catherine, Ann, Elizabeth and Robert, Jr. The Nennos are interested in the problems of Africa, Asia and the Middle East, where Mary spent several years, and Bob has postponed an offered temporary-professorship in Southeast Asia until he can obtain a leave of absence and take his family along. 
American Men of Science listed 200 Notre Dame men who have achieved dis­tinction in various fields of science. Some of them, like Professors Ronald Rich and Donald Plunkett, arc now deceased, but the entire list (with degrees obtained at Notre Dame only) follows: 
THE BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 

Bachofer, Rev. C.S., A.B. '38 Baldinger, Lawrence H., M.S. '31, Ph.D. '33 Cosgrove, Prof. Frank P., B.S. '38 Cosgrove, John F.. B.S. '29 Ehret, Dr. Charies F., M.S. '48, Ph.D. '51 Ervin, Prof. Robert F., B.S. '36, M.S. '38 Fimian. Dr. Walter J., M.S. '52, Ph.D. '55 Ha)-\rard, Dr. James W., M.S. '28 Hufnagel, Dr. Charles A., B.S. '37 Jackson, Dr. Robert L., B.S. '30 Kaczmarek, Prof. Regidino, Ph.C. '12 Knight, Dr. Percy L., Jr., M.S. '51, Ph.D. 
'54 McKinney, Prof. Gordon R., M.S. '48 Manion, Prof. James J., Ph.D. '52 Monaco, Dr. I-awrence H., M.S. '52, PhJ). 

'54 Paff, Dr. George H., B.S. '27 Pahl, Brother George, PhJ>. '53 Pleasants, Julian R., B.S. '39, Mj\ . '50 Plunkett, Donald J., B.S. '29 Pottinger, Dr. M. Aelred (Sr.), M.S. '51 Reback, John F., B.S. '40, M.S. '42 Reyniers, Prof. James A., B.S. '30, M.S. '31 Seamster, Dr. Aaron P., Ph.D. '48 Shaver, Dr. Robert J., M.S. '52, PhJ3. '54 Shirakawa, Prof. Harold $., M.S. '50, PhJ) 
'54 Stokley, Dr. Paul S., M.S. '43, PhJ). '47 Tre-xler, Prof. Philip C., B.S. '34, M.S. '36 Wagner, Prof. Morris, M.S. '46 Webber, Prof. Marion G., M.S. '49 Wood, Dr. Ra>-mond .\., M.S. '53, PhJ). 
'55 
THE PHYSICAL SCIENCES 

-Anderson, Dr. James G., .-^.B. '37, PhJ). 
'46 -•Vngelakos, Dr. D. J., B.S. '42 .•\nthony. Dr. Donald J., PhJ). '53 .•\nzilotti. Dr. Willard F., PhJ). '40 .•\uspos. Dr. Lawrence A., M.S. '41, Ph.D. 
'43 Baldwin, Rev. George J., A.B. '24 Banigan, Dr. Thomas F., B.S. '42, M.S. '43, 
PhJ). '46 Bardos, Dr. Thomas J., PhJ). '49 Bartel, Frank O., C.E. '15 Barthel, Prof. Romard, B.S. '47 Benning, Anthony F., B.S. '28 Bemardi, Prof. S. D., M.S. '45 Biggins, Edward Richard, B.S. '35 Birkenhaucr, Dr. R. J., M.S. '39 Blohm, Dr. Thomas R., B.S. '42 Bolger, Rev. Henry J., A.B. '24 Boyle, Prof. Andre\» J., B.S. '28, M.S. '29, 
Ph.D. '31 Boyle, Dr. Richard J., PhJ). '53 Bried, Dr. Edward A., B.S. '35, PhJ). '38 Brock, Dr. Ernest G., B.S. '46, PhJ). '51 Brown, Rev. Ferdinand Louis, C.S.C., A3 . 
'38, M.S. '45, PhJ). '47 
Dr. Robert P. Nenno, '43 

For Seton Hall, a head-shrinking head. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 15 
€• 
CarapcIIa. Sam C, Jr., M.S. '48. Ph.D. 
'50 Carney. Dr. Thomas P., B.S. '37 Caston, Dr. Ralph H., Ph.D. '42 Cochran, Dr. Edward L., Ph.D. '53 Codrington, Dr. Robert S., Ph.D. '51 Coer\er, Sr. Helen Joseph, C.S.J.. Ph.D. 
'52 Conbcrc, Dr. John P., M.S. '49, Ph.D. '50 Conlon, Joseph W., B.S. '35 Consolata, Sr. Maria, C.S.C., Ph.D. '45 Cook, Sr. Rose Margaret, M.S. '27 Coomes, Prof. Edward A., B.S. '31 Cordes, Walter John. B.S. '42 Corrigan, Dr. John R., M.S. '42, Ph.D. '49 Costello, Dr. James R., Ph.D. '49 Cowgill, Rev. James J., Ph.D. '52 Crist, Dr. Joseph G.. B.S. '51 Croxall, Dr. ;Villard J.. B.S. '32, M.S. '33. 
Ph.D. '35 Curran, Charles S., B.S. '40 Curran. Bro. Columba, B.S. '33, M.S. '35, 
Ph.D. '37 Dailey, Joseph P., Ph.D. '50 Danchy. Dr. James P., B.S. '33, M.S. '34. 
Ph.D. '36 Davison, Dr. Sol, Ph.D. '51 Dietrich, Prof. Verne E., M.S. '47 Dillon, Dr. Thomas E., B.S. '37, M.S. '40, 
Ph.D. '42 Doloretta, Sr. M., M.S. '31. Ph.D. '36 Dovle. John Thomas, B.S. '39. M.S. '40 Ebv, Dr. Lawrence T., B.S. '38, M.S. '39, 
Ph.D. '41 Edward, Sr. Mary, Ph.D. '42 Ellithorn, Dr. Harold E., Ph.D. '45 Erncr, Dr. William E., Ph.D. '49 Farrell, Dr. Joseph B., B.S. '43 Fatora, Dr. Frank C, Ph.D. '51 Faust, Dr. John P., Ph.D. '52 Feldmeier. Dr. Joseph R., M.S. '40, Ph.D. 
'42 Ferrer, Sr. Mar>-, Ph.D. '50 Fitzpatrick, John P., B.S. '35 Forster, Dr. Michael J., M.S. '50, Ph.D. '51 Fountain, Dr. Richard W., B.S. '47 Freeman, Dr. Jeremiah P., B.S. '50 Froning, Dr. Joseph F., B.S. '37. M.S. 38 
Ph.D. '40 Georges, Dr. Louis, B.S. '29 Gordon, Dr. Sheffield, Ph.D. "'53 Greene, Dr. Charles E., B.S. '41 Haaser, Dr. Norman B., B.S. '43, iLS. 48 Hamill, Prof. Wm. H., B.S. '30, M.S. '31 Hemmingsen, Dr. Erik, M.S. '40 Hennion, Prof. George F., B.S. '32. iLS. 
'33, Ph.D. '35 Hentz, Prof. Robert R.. Ph.D. '50 Herbst, Dr. Ralph L., Jr., Ph.D. '49 Hess, Dr. Lawrence G., B.S. '38, M.S. '39, 
Ph.D. '41 Hinton, Prof. Hcnr>- D., Ph.D. '30 Ho, Dr. Kuo C, M.S. '49, Ph.D. '51 Hopper, Dr. Paui F., Ph.D. '51 Hydock. Dr. Joseph J., Ph.D. '50 Ir\vin, Dr. Carl F., B.S. '38. M.S. '39, Ph.D. 
'41 Ivey, Prof. Donald G., Ph.D. '49 Jenks, Dr. Frederick P., iLS. '39, Ph.D. '40 Juenker, David W., Ph.D. '52 Kane, Bro. Gabriel, M..-\. '52 Kcrwin, Dr. James F., B.S. '41. Ph.D. '44 Killian, Dr. Donald B.. B.S. '32, M.S. '34, 
Ph.D. '36 Kinderman, Dr. Edwin M., M.S. '38. Ph.D. '41 

Klaas, Dr. Nicholas P., Ph.D. '48 
Klier, Dr. Eugene P., B.S. '40, M.S. '42, 
Ph.D. '44 Klohs, Murle W., B.S. '47 Knaus, Joseph A., B.S. '40 Knoblock, Dr. James O., M.S. '47. Ph.D. 
'49 Kolka, Dr. .Mfred J., B.S. '36, M.S. '37, Ph.D. '39 •} Kroeger, Dr. John W., B.S. '34, M.S. '35. 
Ph.D. '37 Kurtz, Dr. Russell .V., M.S. '40, Ph.D. '42 LaForgc, Dr. Raymond A., B.S. '42, M.S. 
'44, Ph.D. '49 Lane, Rev. Thomas J., C.S.C, .V.B. '29, 
Ph.D. '42 Leis, Dr. Donald G., M.S. '42. Ph.D. '44 Liu, Dr. Tien S., Ph.D. '52 Loritsch, Dr. John .-\.. B.S. '36, M.S. '37jf) 
Ph.D. '39 Lukes, Dr. Robert M., Ph.D. '49 Lyman, Dr. Taylor, Ph.D. '44 Lyman, Wilkes S., B.S. '44 McCusker. Dr. Patrick .X.. M.S. '30, Ph.D. 
'37 McDemott, John P.. -M.S. '41. Ph.D. '44 McGrath. Rev. Joseph S., .-\.B. '32, Ph.D. 
'39 McGuirc, Dr. Francis T., B.S. '37, M.S. '38, Ph.D. '41 I j McKenna. Dr. James F., B.S. '36, M.S. 
'37, Ph.D. '39 McLellan, H.irr>- James, U.E. '21 Manion, Dr. J. P., Ph.D. '51 Miller. Dr. Walter C, M.S. '42. Ph.D. '48 Mitchell, Hugh C , C.E. '95, B.S. '98 Moede, Dr. Jerome .\., Ph.D. '48 
(Continued on page 23) 

Dr. Lawrence Baldinger with Notre Dame men among 1960 graduates of Loyola's Stritch School of Medicine (1. to r.): Joe DiLallo, '36; Dr. Baldinger; Mike Howard, '57; Frank Peracc, '57; Dick Lorenzini, '57; Larry Bamet, '56; Dick Hendricks, '56; Jim Kennedy, '57; Joe O'Connor, '56; and Phil Bohnert, '56 (Northwestern). 
More new Irish doctors from Loyola {L to r.): Tony Garruto, '54; Dr. Baldinger; Paul Colligao, '56; Angelo Cappozzi, '36; Bob Seclman, '37; Frank Dwan, '56; Armand Rigaux, '56; Frank Dega, '56; Bob Stcckbcck, '56; Bob Lcchowski, '56; and Ray Des Hosiers, '57. pj 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 


\ey. Alfred F. Mendez. C.S.C., '31. Will Return To Puerto Rico As Bishop of Arecibo Diocese 
Father Altred Mendez, C.S.C, '31, Bishop-designate of Arecibo, Puerto Rico, is looking forward to his new assignment 
as a chance lo return to missionary' work, the most vital activity of the Church. 
Bishop-elect Mendez will go to his new-diocese soon after his consecration on Octo­ber 28. He was to have been consecrated by the late Cardinal O'Hara, but his conse-
T,. , -, , orator will now prob­iSishcp Mendez ui i .i i i 

•^ ably be the newly ele­vated Archbishop of San Juan. 
In Puerto Rico, Father Mendez says he expects to find many major problems greet­ing him, a shortage of money and a short­age of buildings. He has already proved he can take these problems in stride. In 1937 and 1938 he directed Holy Cross mis-
o 
sionary activity among the Mexicans and Negroes of Texas and Louisiana. He ac­quired a reputation as a building genius with the construction of 20 new churches during that period. The churches were built with native stone, cedar logs, tele­graph poles and plenty of elbow grease from Father Mendez, but they were built. 
The latest monument to his fund-raising ability is the magnificent $3 million Moreau Seminar>' now facing St. Joseph Lake on the Xotre Dame campus. Father ifendez was responsible for financing the building. 
-Although Father Mendez was bom in the U. S. and has spent only a small part of his 53 years in the Caribbean area, his family tics to Puerto Rico go back more than 137 years. In 1823 the Mendez name first came to Puerto Rico when the bishop­elect's great grandfather was appointed mi­litary- governor of Mayagucz by the King of Spain. This section will be a part of his new diocese. His grandfather, Don Jose Mendez de .-Xrcaya, the last Spanish gov­ernor of the Puerto Rican city of Ponce, started the first newspaper in Aguadilla. This city is built on the spot where Co­lumbus made his second landing in 1493. His grandfather also brought the first opera house to that city. He left when the Americans occupied Puerto Rico in 1893. 
One of Don Jose's five sons was the bishop-elect's father, who traveled exten­sively in the export-import business. He happened to be in Chicago when his wife, a member of an old Ha\-ana family, gave birth to .-Mfred F. Mendez in 1907. Father Mendez has been on the go ever since. He spent the first year of his life in Brooklyn, Montreal and Chicago. His education was scattered between Chicago and New York, Spain and finally E\-ansville, Ind. He turned down an appointment to the U. S. Na\-al .-\cademy to join the priesthood and was ordained on the Notre Dame campus in 1935. 
Father Mendez said his First Solemn Mass in the Cathedral of San Juan, Puerto Rico. Later he worked in two Puerto Rican parishes, one of w-hich he founded him­self, so his return to the island as a bishop will be somewhat in the nature of a home­coming. 



3n ItSemoriam 
His Eminence John Francis Cardinal O'Hara, G.S.C. Archbishop of Philadelphia 
On Sunday, August 28, 1960, Cardinal O'Hara passed to his eternal reward. A Solemn Pontifical Requiem Mass was celebrated by Cardinal Mc-Intyrc of Los Angeles in Philadelphia on September 5, with Cardinal Spell-man of New York giving the sermon, after which the body of Cardinal O'Hara in accordance with an often-repeated request, was sent to Notre Dame for burial. This look place in Sacred Heart Church on September 7, after a Solcnm Pontifical Requiem Mass celebrated by Archbishop Schultc of Indianapolis and a sermon by Bishop Leo Pursley of Fort Wayne-South Bend. 
Cardinal O'Hara was born in Ann Arbor, Mich., May 1, 1888. He grew up in Peru, Ind., and spent a few-years in South America, where his father was a U. S. consul, before en­tering Notre Dame in 1909. Graduated in 19U, he taught briefly at the Uni­versity before studying for the priest­hood. Ordained in 1916, he spent most of the next 23 years at Notre Dame as Prefect of Religion, Dean of Commerce, Vice-President and Presi­dent of the University. He was con­secrated a Bishop - early in 1940 as Military- Delegate to the U. S. .-Xmied Forces; appointed Bishop of Buffalo, 

N. Y., in 1945; Archbishop of Phila­delphia, Pa., in 1951; and was ele­vated to Cardinal in December, 1958. A great prelate, he will be remembered most wamJy for his strong religious influence on generations of Notre Dame men. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 17 
By brute strength, ner\e, guts and by the grace of a pool reporter's pass, I was 

'Such Interesting People' able to dog Mr. K's steps for most of the two days he was in Des Moines. I was fortunate enough to be on hand for the 
By Nick Lamberto, *38 
famous hot dog eating contest with .-Vm-
AVlicn 1 was stutlyini; journalism at Notre Danif, Doc Cooney, the dean, used to say tliat newspapermen "meet such in­lerestinir people." To which a cynical news­man nowadays is likely to reply: "Yeah, 
other newspaper peojjle." I have found that what Doc Cooney told us is true. A newsman does meet intercst­int: [leople and see things and places not on the standard fare. For instance, at last count I had inten-iewed a dozen nmrderers. That's not exactly soniethini; to be proud of. but it's pan of the job of yalliering news and findincT out for the reader's benefit why the crime was connnitled. In wliat other job could 1 have taken a trip aboard the atomic submarine Xautllus and two montlis later flown a B-47 jet on a 3,000 mile simulated bombing mission over tliree European capitals? I never did find out why Charles Stark­weather, 19. of Lincoln, Xebr.. killed 11 persons, though I flew out to Douglas, Wyo., where he was captured, seeking the answer. Or why a pink-clueked lad of 15 with two pennies in each shoe for luck killed his father. This latter boy, inci­dentally, sent me a Christmas card eveiy year from Iiis jjrison cell. Many times on crime stories for the Des Moines Register I've wished 1 had class-male Harvev Toster. New York I'BI chief, or friend James McGoldrick (NO 1938), New York lawyer and former FBI man, along to help with the questioning. They might have afforded protection, too. .-\t times I needed protection. On one occasion, Eugene (Jimmy) James, notorious labor and juke box racketeer, grabbed me roughly by the arm and uttered some pro­fanities because we took his picture and asked a few questions. Another time I was beaten u[> by a group of strikers wlien they caught me eavesdropping at one of their meetings. I didn't feel bitter about the beating because 1 waS taking a calcxilated risk in tr\-ing to overhear wliat was going on at a secret meeting. Besides my Notre Dame etliics class never covered eavesdrop­ping when the "jjublic has a right to know." 
Covering some of the top sports events such as a Notre Dainc-Purdue football game has given me a few thrills {I covered sports for five years before ti-ansferring to news). 
There's a light side to reporting, too. Intennewlng movie st;irs such as Debbie Reynolds, Danny Kaye or Jimmie Stewart is an easy, enjoyable task. 
In .\pril, 195B, I went to San .\ntonio, Tex., to do a series on space, basing the stories on what they were doing at the School of Space Medicine, Randolph Air Force Base, to get a man ready for space flight. I inadvertently found out tliey were training monkeys for the first fiight and wrote a copyrighted exclusive stor\- on this, more than a vear before the first monkevs went aloft. The officials at the school begged me not to use the story, but niy edi­tors felt otherwise. (Don't get mc started on this era of censorship we seem to be living in. Imagine a government order say­ing all monkeys were not to be called monkeys but primates. Afraid they'd of­fend the India people who revere the nionkeys). 
In 1953 I flew a 17-hour mission in a B-36 Peacemaker with a Strategic .Vir Com­mand crew. In 1954 I (lew to Thule, Green­land, to do a stor\' on that extraordinary base and the lowans stationed there. 
The trips aboard the Nautilus and a B-17 Stratojet came in 1957. I boarded the Nautilus at Brooklyn and traveled with it to New London, Conn. It was a short trip but it represented about two years of negotiations with the navy. 
In June, 1957, I flew to England with a Strategic ,-Mr Command wing. Before that I had flown in a KC-97 tanker plane (prop drlvenl as it refueled a B-47. Tlicy even allowed nie to operate or "fly" the re­fueling boom. In England, we found It would be about a week before we fiew our slnmlated bombing mission over the capitals of Scotland, France and England. So we took a side trip to \Vicsbaden, Genuany, and Rome, Italy, with a short stay at the Paris airport. Entering St. Peters in Rome, a short ruddy-faced priest accosted mc and a newsman from Detroit. In a brogue as thick as the Irish sod, he said: "You're .Americans, My name is Leahy. Vm a cousin of tlie famous coach." I proclaimed that I was a Notre Dame grad, knew Frank Leahy personally from my sports writing days, etc. Father Lealiy said, "\VelI, I may not really be his cousin, but you know all of us Leahys are related."' 
This friendly priest took us in tow. We went to a small room in the basement of the church. It formerly was a first aid sta­tion but now ser\-ed as a snack bar. The Detroit newsman and I both had a cup of rofi"ee (expresso): the Irish priest had a beer. We later saw Pope Pius XII and 1 recalled that I had seen him as a cardinal when he visited Notre Dame In 1937. 
In 1958 I took trips aboard a S.-VC B-52 Stnuoforiress and a KC-135 jet tanker. Imagine lifting 400,000 pounds of airplane ofl" a runway. Needless to say it's always a thrill to me when sometime during the mission the aircraft commander allows me to handle the controls. Tliey do this be­cause I'm an old World ^Var II type pilot and ant still in the .\ir Force Resene at­tached to S.-\C headquarters at Omaha, Nebr. 
The high spot of my career recently was being assigned to covering Nikita Khrush­chev wlien the Russian premier visited Des Moines. I was one of a team of 12 Register and Tribune rcix)rters and the best news­men In the world provided the competition. 
bassador Lodge and reported it. For the Register's company organ, "The Spirit," I wrote that In addition to a course In getting credentials, clearances an* figuring angles every rejjorter should have at least a minor degree in physical educa­tion, preferably in judo and body toughen­ing. The jockeying, shoving, mauling, scpiecz­ing around Khrushchev made me feel like a tube of used tooth paste. The Russian security men were as rough and tough as our Notre Dame guards and tackles ought to be (and were when Kuharich was pla>|_ ing). .-\t times they usvd your body as part of a living fence lo protect Khrush­chev. Many times I found myself standing ne.xt to Mr. K. but never could bring my­self to the point of shaking his hand. (That course by Bishop Fulton Sheen on Com­munism while I was a student at Notre Dame has stuck with me). If the Russian security men found you brushing against Khrushchev they would push and shove you aside In no uncertain terms. They gtl** panicky and frantic if they find a stranger next to their man. 
NICK AT PERISCOPE OF ATOM SUB N.AUTILUS — Also Omaha headquarters of the S.A.C., Greenland with the Air Force, trips by tank and B-52. 
WITH CARIL FUGATE AFTER 11­
MURDER SPREE WITH CHARLES 

Famous and Infamous, Noted and Notorious, Near and Far; 
ST.VRKWEATHER—Christmas cards from Reporter Lamberto Sees Them All by Land, Sea, Air nmrderers, threats from racketeers. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Septembefj 1960 
^ Other Notre Danic ..len played con­
spicuous parts during Khrushchev's Des Moines visit. George VIk (1929, I think) was chief of the stale department's security team. 
Joe Wlialen, a prominent alumnus, was Khrushchev's host at the Hotel Fort Des Moines. Whalen did a terrific job. His trials and tribulations as Khrushchev's host 
^vill be the subject of another article. 
So in retrospect, as a newsman I did meet interesting people and see interesting places and things. .As the winner of the Xotre Dame journalism award in 1938, I felt I had an obligation to become a profes­sional newsman. From our whole journal­ism class that year I think that I am the only one who is a newspaper reporter. Two English majors, Edmond Bartnett and 
^Harold Williams, are newsmen in New York and Baltimore, respectively. 
Since graduation Fvc won the Iowa .As­sociated Press award for best spot news stor\- in 1952 and 1958 and the sweepsuikes award for the best stor\' in 1953. Fve also won three awards for sports stories. 
My wife, the former Betty Lou ^fickel­berry of C)hieago, 111., ia a fonner ,-\bbott dancer who danced in Paris, London, Rio dc Janerio and Hollywood before I cor-
CUed her. We have seven children: Bar­.,jra, 15: Mike, 13; Peter, 12; Chris, 10: Laui-a Lou, 7: Lisa, -L and John, 16 months. 
WITH CO.MFOLAX D.ANXV K.\YE—In London. Paris. Rome, a couple of i;lobc-trotlers. 
WITH COMRADE & MRS. K.—Througli cornfields and factories with Nick and Nik. 

MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
No writer lives and writes in isola­tion. He is alive in a particular period of time, in a particular social environ­ment, in a particular place. The writer tries to communicate his ex­periences to the reader. The reader on his part is supposed to feel the mood as well as know the thoughts of the writer. This is a mystical relationship. The wi"itcr is savins;, "I made time pause for a moment. I colored it with words to tell you something. Enjoy with me this momentary slay against confusion." 
In our last article we mentioned some pri\ileges and obligations that come to all of us as Xotre Dame men. Here are a few of ilie ]3rivileges: 
a) learning: b) spiritual growth: c) friendship: d) prestige. These are not listed in any order of importance. Let's focus on one of them for the lime being. 
Lc<irniii!i. It has been said by many, and often timas. that the piu-pose of a university is to teach a jjcrson to ihink. that it has as its specific func­tion the making of minds. We hope tliis has been done for us. Wc came to learn. The wheel has made its full turn. One day in June we reached for the parchment, waved it to the crowd. tip[)ed our mortarboard at a rakish angle, ."^miled to the click of the camera, tossed the gatherings of four years into trunks and boxes — and the ^^'agon train was on its way. 
Looking back from the vantage |)oint of time and maturity, what have we done with our learning? Perhaps we ha\e a good job. a lovely familv. and are considered to be respected citizens. Hut what of our learning, of those four long years ]iounding the books? Did we slip noiselessly into mediocrity? Did wc give up our ideals and ideas of being the best in the field? 
You will notice in each issue of your .M^UMXL'S magazine an insert under the title The Sublime Tradition. This is done for you. It is meant to en­courage and enrich the minds of No­tre Dame's diverse family by reading. \Vc have asked our facultv to review books that are worthwhile for you. 
Professor John Fiederick of the English Department wrote of leisure reading as an investment. He tells us that we invest veiy substantial portions of our lives in unconsidered daily ac­tivities. One of these is reading. Read­ing, he says, can be to inform, or in direct relation to our job, or for its own sake, i.e., for entertainment or pleasure. The point he makes is this: that our investment of time can be actually lost or wholly unprofitable if our reading is unconsidered or undi­rected. To make our reading profit­able, to give it direction, is the pur­pose of the reviews. .-\11 of us should get to read some of the books that are listed. Let us know what you get out of them. It might veiy well be that you don't agree with the books select­ed. It might be that you have better selections. Let us know what your list is and why you prefer it. Others will benefit from your criticiue. 
The late James O'Donnell Bennett has a paperbook on the stands called Much Loved Books. On his own book­mark was the inscription, "Read dili­gently the great books of mankind." Perhaps we will not agree with Ben­nett in all his enthusiasms. He would not expect it of us. What he would expect is for us to give these old friends of his a chance to become our friends. 
It \vas Bacon who said, "Natural ' abilities are like natural plants, they need pnming by study." How won­derful it would be if our alumni would continue through the years the liabit of reading and discussion, ^\'e would 
— and I hesitate to say this — be read­ing for fun and profit. I hesitate be­cause good literature should not ha\c to have a "doublenc.s.s'" —• that is, that it should both delight and instruct. Yet, for many of us who may have gotten away from reading we need some kind of prodding to urge us on. The prod to learning by reading c?n be for us — as it is for many — "dis­cussion groups" on the reading. I will go into this at another time. 
® 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 19 


i960 Commencement 
ALUMNI STAR AT ii5th GRADUATION EXERCISES 
The 115th Commencement in June, 1960, was probably the most distinguished in Notre Dame's history. Besides President Eisenhower and Cardinal Montini the Uni­versity honored a brilliant company of authors, educators, diplomats, scientists and prelates, but none of those present out­shone Dr. George Shuster, '15, retired president of Hunter College, who was awarded the Laetare Medal: or Dr. Thomas Dooley, '48, the dedicated jungle physician of Laos and co-founder of Medico, who received an honorary Sc. D. degree. 
The Laetare Medal was given with the following citation: 
We welcome you home. \Vc rejoice on your return to the place where you studied as undergraduate and graduate, where in the early nineteen twenties you taught bril­liantly and ser\-ed as head of the Depart­ment of English; to the place where, young and hopeful, you contributed richly to the intellectual progress of our Universit}-. In the years since, your career has been a dis­tinguished fulfillment of the great promise of its beginning. As Managing Editor, you helped to develop The Commonweal — concerned especially about the relationships between religion and modem socictj-— in­to one of the ablest journals of opinion and discussion in our country. You have been a formative influence and participant — active in many national and international conferences and on many delegations and boards — in promoting cultural and social rapport throughout the Western World in establishing harmony within the .'American community, supporting always, as you have. 
the dignity and libert>' of each person com­posing it. 
.As President of Hunter College you have won the affection and admiration of faculty and students these past two decades; and you have more than justified the trust of the editorial remarks in The Commonweal at the time of your appointment to so challenging an office: "He is fitted to lead in this broad and fundamental work. He has proven clarity of mind, remarkably far-reaching erudition, and inexhaustible ener­gy. The discipline and clearness of his in­telligence, his practically limitless capacity for work; and his courage to use his in­telligence are all qualities for educational leadership." Certainly this leadership you have provided with vigor and grace, with a profound desire for intellectual and in­diWdual freedom. 
You must be praised, too, for your many important essays and books about literature as well as about questions affecting the public interest, here and abroad. But, among all your writings, there are some words which most become you, words published when you were a young professor at Notre Dame. Then you said: "Let there be a deepening concern with the things of the spirit in the light of reason; conxnnce men once more of the truth of the Kingdom of God, teach them the beauty and responsi­bility of their human inheritance, 'make them feel the magnificence of the diWne adventure into which they - are bom. The reneival of the face of the earth must be­gin with the soul of man. When the point of view of the multitude has been weaned from the glitter that distracts it, when the 
© 

hale solidity of its spiritual heritage has been understood again, our task shall have been done." These words of yours, set down long ago, are prophetic. Your total achieve­ment — as teacher, editor, scholar, defender of civilized order, and educator — has been a realization of their meanings and valuesfli) In the light of them, your tasks have indeed been well and faithfully accomplished. 
For your moving and life-long effort to maintain the beauty and responsibility of our spiritual and human inheritance in the midst of a century increasingly alienated from it, Notre Dame is proud and happy to award you, her own son, George Nauman Shuster, the highest honor she can bestow upon a Catholic layman in America, the Laetare Medal for 1960. |">,> 
Dr. Shuster replied as follows: 

"Anyone whom Notre Dame honors with such a measure of distinction and warm feeling as I have expericnped today will not easily believe that whatever he is supposed to have accomplished during his life was adequate preparation. But there is certain­ly a sense in which I have qualified. My youth belonged to Notre Dame. As a stu­dent I toiled manfully, for example, a|V translations of Horace and Homer for a fine classical scholar who was also one of the most amiable of men. -And then in turn as a teacher here I pressed noses galore to the grindstone, being concerned with Shake­speare and Spenser, Wordsworth and Fran­cis Thompson. These are great poets, but who can doubt that for us Notre Dame was also an absorbing, always beloved poem in its own right, blending eternal ideals and 
0' 
•Q' 

Dr. Shuster, Archbishop O'Connor, President Eisenhower, Father Hcsburgb, Cardinal Montini and Dr. Bclaundc. Second row (left to right): Dr. Waterman, Mr. Grace, Dr. Holland, Dr. Dooley, Dr. Gould and Dr. Sontag. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 0) 
Honorary degree recipients and Laetare Medalist pose with Father Hcsburgb. First row (L. to R.): Lactare Medalist 
Dr. Shus<cr receives the Lactare Medal as Outstanding Catholic Layman. 

constantly emerging youth in its own special Atext, which at the outset had been composed ^o f heartache for France and the Old World generally as well as of eager anticipation of the great hopes to be realized in our Ameri­ca, .^nd who is not sure that although this University is now far greater than it once waSj more learned, more deeply aware of its intellectual strength, it has remained and may God grant will remain the same loyal servant of everlasting purpose it has always been. For there is grave need that it ^should be so, now that fair words can con­ceal dark days to come and the unfurled scroll on which the secrets of the world are written could well have on it only the promise of universal death. Wise words are now not luxuries but bread. And so I very gratefully accept the Lactare Medal quite as if I were graduating again and looking forward to doing something or other which might indicate that the diploma imposed on me an obligation it was also pleasant to 
^acknowledge. By reason of an awareness of comradeship with the past and present of Notre Dame, I should like to close with some lines written long ago by Father Charles O'Donnell: 
" 'Some  day  returning  out  of  ways  
more  wide,  
.•\gain  the  pleasant  waters  I  may  
\valk  beside;  
^  Seek  in  old  haunts  and  old  accus­ 
tomed places.  
Seek  and  not  find  "the  old  fami­ 
liar  faces."  
.\nd memorj-, pausing then  to  dream  
awhile,  
•  Will  see  through dimming eyes  that  
still  must  smile.  
And hear  across the water's  rippling  
blue  
A  shado\vy coxswain  call  a  shadow)­ 
crew.'"  
^  George N.  Shuster  

The following citation was read for Dr. Dooley: 

9acu/tif ^ews 
."Vt the 
One Hundred Fifteenth Commencement 
The June Exercises 
The Universit)' of Notre Dame 
Confers the degree of 
Doctor of Science, honoris causa 

A younger son of Notre Dame, who has dramatically brought to his fellow Ameri­cans a new application of an old charity. Swept into World War II while a student at Notre Dame, he has since lived the ur­gent life of the soldier but has transcended nationalist and materialist aims in his fight against poverty, ignorance and disease. He has fused his scientific medical education with a Christian love for humanity, and the strength of this union has fired the imagi­nation and won the support of his country­men who look with pride on his generosity to the desperate refugees of Viet-Nam and on the events that followed: the hospitals of Laos and those planned for other places, the medical teams trained and in training, 
Four faculty members promoted to full the developing sense of mission and increas­
professorships !n May arc (I. to r.) Ernest ing dedication to it. His challenging books 
Sandeen, English; Ernest Elicl, chemistry; and lectures, his loving care of the poor Laivrcncc Lee, engineering; and Thomas and under-nourished primitive peoples he Broden, law. Eight others were elevated seeks to help, his organizing ability and 
to the rank of associate professor and 16 the tact and charm with which he per­
to assistant professor. suades great industries and kindergartens 
'"•^ .if'PiTWgiiyH 
alike to assist his work, along with his own . personal fight against a malignant disease, have arrested and moved the heart of a nation unhappily short in personal heroism and of his university proud to honor it. On 
Doctor Thomas A. Dooley 
of 
Laos and the United States 
of. 
America Simultaneously transferred in I960 after terms as commanders of Notre Dame's 

R.O.T.C. units were (1. to r.) CoL Mat­thew H. Merkle, '39, TJ.S.A.F.; Capt. Leonard T. Morse, U.S.N.; and Col. Edwin 
W. Crenelle, U.S.A. 

FIVE RETIRE FROM FACULTY Ax. the close of the 1959-60 academic year the following members of the facidty were retired from active teaching at Notre Dame: Mr. Cecil Birder, Music Mr. Ronald O'Neill, Commerce (since deceased) * Mr. William Roemer, philosophy (re­turned for limited teaching) Mr. William Turner, Engineering Mr. George Wack, Modem Languages The President congratulates Dr. Dooley who Heartfelt thanks of the .•Mumni Associa­received an honorary doctor of science tion to these men for.their long and loyal degree. ser\-ice to Notre Dame. 
Uotte Dame Alumnus, September, I960 21 
For reports on 113 Notre Dame Clubs, 


Universal Notre Dame Night.. i960 «) turn to page 28. 
SPOKANE—The head table for U.N.D. Night with the Notre Dame Club of Spokane included (1. to r.): Father Toner, S.J.: Father Mastcrson, S.J.; Joe W-nlsh, '14; Bishop Bernard J. Topel, '38, named Man of the Year; Tom Lally. '06; Mrs. Monk -Mho and Mrs. Hob Mcrz; Merz, '47, and Albo, '35. 
H.A.\VAII—This throns of Irish islanders in the 50th state is gathered for an indoor luau, mainland style, the Hawaii Club's celcbra­
tion of Universal Notre Dame Night. 

Notre Dame Books 
DIPLOMACY IN A CHANGING WORLD. Edited by Stephen D. Kcrtcsz and M. 
A. Fitzsimons. Notre Dame: University Press. 407 pp. $7.50. 
EDUC.'\TION AND MORAL WISDOM. By George N. Shuster, '15. New York: Harper & Bros. 146 pp. .$3.50. 
FAMILY MAN. By Eugene S. Geisslcr, '50. Notre Dame: Fides Publishers. $3.50. DISCOX'ERY AND OTHER POE.MS. By Samuel Hazo, '48. New York: Sheed & Ward. $.95. FUNDAMENTALS OF THE LITURGY. By John H. Miller, C.S.C. .Notre Dame: Fides Publishers. $6.00. 
THE GO GO CHICAGO \VHITE SOX. By Dave Condon, '45. Foreword by Bill Vecck. New York: Coward McCann. 
$3.95. BARDSTOWN: TOWN OF TRADITION. By Matt Spalding (Brother Martin John, '31, M.A. '40). Louisville, Ky.: 

22 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
Schumann Printing Company. 98 pp. Paperback, $1.75. Clothbouiid, $2.50. 
Book Notes 
Prof. William D. Rollison's latest book, "Cases and Materials on Estate Planning,'" was published by the University of Notre Dame Press in the spring. 
Fides Publishers is releasing a new series of pocket-size paperback books, called "Fides Dome Books." Containing 128 pages and priced at 95 cents each, they include such titles as "More than Many Sparrows," "Growth or Decline," and ".'Vccent on Purity," the celebrated guide to se.\ edu­cation by Rev. Joseph E. Haley, C.S.C. 
"Knute Rocknc," the latest biography by Francis Wallace, "23, is now on sale. The author will be present at Bruggncr's Book Store, South Bend, on the morning of the Purdue game, Oct. 1, to autograph copies. On October 15, the day of the Michigan State game, he will be auto­graphing in the Notre Dame Bookstore. 
YOU, THE ALUMNI 
{Ed. Note: We had hoped, in this issue, to bring you an entire chapter of the self-study sur\ey of Notre Dame alumni conducted by John F. X. Ryan, M..\.. Ed. D. But space permits only an announcement that the sur\'ey will be serialized in succeeding issues of the .-VLUJIXUS and a brief quotation "J from the introduction by Dr. Ryan. J.L.) 
"Over ten thousand answered the questionnaire. This report is based up­on the number of your Class responding. Because of small numbers we combined the Classes 1900-1919 and 1920-1925. This report would not be a reality with­out the help and encouragement of Father John J. Cavanaugh, Father John 0' 
H. Wilson, James E. .Armstrong and especially the late Kenneth Doty, former head of the IBM tabulating division of the University who made these data available for analvsis." 
-y! 

• N.D. MEN OF SCIENCE 
(Continued from page 16) 

Molony, Rev. William H., C.S.C, Litt. B.. 
'07 MonacelH, Dr. Walter J. B.S. '38, Ph.D. '41 Muchlenkamp, George T., B.S. '41 Mullin, Dr. Charles J., Ph.D. '42 
^'agcl, Fritz John, B.S. '41, M.S. '42 
•Colan, Dr. Daniel P., Ch.E., '23, M.S. '31. Ph.D. '39 Norris, Dr. Richard O., B.S. '37, M.S. '38, 
Ph.D. '40 O'Boyle, Dr. Charles J., it.S. '37, Ph.D. '39 O'Brien, Dr. Jos. F., B.S. '48 O'Conncll, Dr. Paul W.. B.S. '43 O'Connor, Dr. Michael' J., B.S. '36, M.S. 
'37, Ph.D. '39 Pctrauskas, Prof. A. A., B.S. '31, M.S. '38 
Wolye, William R., M.S. '39 Powers, Prof. Wm. H.. B.S.A. '22 Raley, Dr. Charles F.', B.S. '43, M.S. '47 Rcith. Dr. John E.. B.S. '41, M.S. '42, 
Ph.D. '47 Rc.x, Prof. Earl C , B.S. '27 Rich, Prof. Ronald E., B.S. '28, Nf.S. '36 Rumpf, Robert John, B.S. '39 Schacfer, Dr. Vincent J.. Hon. Sc. D. '48 Schaffncr, Dr. Irwin J., B.S. '41, M.S. '42. Ph.D. '44 
®chillinger. Prof. Edwin J., M.S. '48. Ph.D. '50 Schlandcckcr, George F., B.S. '38 Schmidle. Dr. Claude J., B.S. '41, M.S. 
'42, Ph.D. '48 Schmitt, Howard J., B.S. '43 Schwar/. Dr. Harold, Ph.D. '52 Shilts, Prof. Walter L., C.E. '22 Smith, Prof. Knowles, Ph.D. '17 Sobatzki. Dr. Raymond J., B.S. '25, ^t.S. 
'26 % omincrs. Dr. .-Vrmiger H., B.S. '42, M.S. '43. Ph.D. '48 Sown. Dr. Frank J., B.S. '30, M.S. '31, Ph.D. '33 Staunton, John J., B.S. '32. M.S. '34, E.E. 
'41 Steele, Dr. F. A., B.S. '23, M.S. '26 Stubbleficld. Edward .\f., M.S. '39 Thie, Dr. Joseph A., B.S. '47. Ph.D. '51 Toussaint, Walter J., B.S. '28, M.S. '29 
CTreacy, Dr. John C , B.S. '45, M.S. '48 Vanneman. Dr. Clinton R., Ph.D. '49 Vassallo, Bro. Godfrey, M.S. '27 
Participating in a special convocation at Sacred Heart Church in May were (1. to r.) Father Hcsburgh, Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C., provincial superior of the Holy Cross Fathers; His Eminence Gregory Peter XV Cardinal Agagianian, pro-prefect of the Sacred Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith, who received an honorary degree; Bishop Leo Purslcy of Fort Wayne, and Bishop Andrew Grutka of Gary. 
Vcrbanc, Dr. John J., B.S. '35, M.S. '36. Ph.D. '38 Vogt. Prof. Richard R.. B.S. '15, M.S. '16, 
Ph.D. '21 Wachter, Dr. Ralph F., B.S. '39 Walsh, Dr. John E., B.S. "41 Walsh, Dr. Joseph G., B.S. '43, .M.S. '47, 
Ph.D. '49 Walters, Prof. Edward C , B.S. '43, M.S. '46 Waiters, Robert L., B.S. '41 Webb, William P., B.S. '44, M.S. '47 Weber. Dr. Fred C , B.S. 36, M.S. 37, 
Ph.D. '39 Welsh, Dr. Charles E., B.S. '38, M.S. '39, Ph.D. '41 Wiedenbeck. Dr. MavccUus L., M.S. '42. Ph.D. '45 Wilhelm. Dr. Ernest J., B.S. '27, M.S. '28. Ph.D. '30 WiUihnt'anz, Dr. Eugene A., B.S. '24, M.S. 
'25 Witte, Dr. Robert S., B.S. '43. Ph.D. '50 Witucki, Robert M.. B.S. '47, M.S. '48 Wolf, Dr. George M.. B.Ch.E. '36, if.S. 39. 
Ph.D. '40 Wolicki, Dr. Eligius A., Ph.D. '50 Wunderlv, Dr. Harr\- L., M.S. '35, Ph.D. 
•37 Young, Dr. Charles A., M.S. '34. Ph.D. '36 Young, Dr. Eldred E., B.S. '40, M.S. '41, 
Ph.D. '43 Ziegler, Dr. Mandell S., B.S. '43 Zoss, Dr. Abraham O., B.S. '38, M.S. '39, 
Ph.D. '41 
ATTENTION ART GRADUATES!! 
Our Department of .-Vrt is trying to locate the present address of all .-Mumni who were graduated from here. \\Tiether you received your M.F.A., B.F.A., or A.B. with Art as Alajor, we would like to know your present whereabouts, name, street address and town. Would you please send them to me at once? We're printing an .*\rt Newsletter. 
Rev. .Anthony Lauck, C.S.C. Notre Dame, Indiana 

FORT WA^'NE—Leading another fine turn-out for the Fort Wayne Club's annual Day of Recollection at Crosier House of Studies in April were (seated, I. to r.) John L. Soscnheinier, co-chairman; Rev. Martin Schoenbcrg, O.C.S.; Rev. Daniel E. Piel, retreat master; Rev. Daniel Richard, O.S.C.; and James J. Kress, chairman of the event. 
• 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 23 
PITTSBURGH—This delayed photo shows an impressive turn-out for the Pittsburgh Club's annual Week-end Retreat early this year at St. Paul of the Cross Retreat House, attended by 78 members. 
LAW (cont'd from page 12) 
Mr. Murphy also received the Law Week 
Award, provided annually by the Bureau 
of National .Affairs, Inc., Washington, D.C. 
The HojTies -Award, founded in 1916 by 
former Dean Hoynes, went to Mr. Lawrence 
J. Bradley, 60L, of .Albany, New York. 
The Farabaugh Prize, given annually by Honorable Farabaugh '07L, was awarded to Mr. Donald A. Garrity, '60L, of Helena, Montana. 
The Hany English .Award, provided for by the will of the late Hany English of Cleveland, Ohio, went to Mr.' Paul H. Ti­tus, '60L, of Bradford, Pennsylvania. 



SYMPOSIUM ON LABOR UNION POWER 
.A two-day Symposium on Labor Union and the Public Interest was held in the Law .Auditorium on .April 27 and 28 under the auspices of the Notre Dame Law School. Professor Charles O. Grcgor}- of the Uni­versity of Virginia Law School presides. Participants included the following well-known scholars: Professor .Archibald Cox, Har\-ard Law School: Professor Bernard D. Meltzcr, University of Chicago Law School; Professor D. P. O'ConnclI, University of South .Australia: Professor Sylvester Petro, New York University School of Law: and Professor David McCord \Vright, McGill University. 
The purpose of the Symposium was stated by Dean O'Meara in his opening re­marks, as follows: 
"Power to bring the Nation's economy to a virtual standstill cannot be immune from legal accountability. That such power is lodged in some, at least, of the great national and international labor unions has been demonstrated repeatedly, most recent­ly by the United Steelworkers. One can be wholly sympathetic with labor's aspirations and still reject the notion that the Nation's economic health and safety should be de­pendent upon unilateral decisions by a group of private individuals — union mem­bers and their leaders — decisions taken for their own ends, however legitimate. So \-ast a power — terrifying in its potentiali­ties — must be brought under reasonable legal controls, as the power of management already has been. 
"The reason is simple and, in other con­texts, long has been taken for granted: the public interest is paramount. Hence the law must inter\ene to protect the whole from 

2i Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
the consequences of private action designed 
to benefit a few. 
"Partisans can be expected to dissent, but I believe most .Americans will agree with the proposition I have just put for­ward. That, at any rate, represents the thinking behind this S>Tnposium, whose pur­pose is to explore the sources and extent of labor-union power, its effects in terms of the public interest and how best to deal with the complex and difficult problems it raises. 
"This is a subject of urgent national concern. It is also a subject of hot debate, involving deep-seated lo\-alties and strong emotional commitments. It is fitting, there­fore, that it should be examined in an academic setting: and it is our hope to approach the subject with as much objec­tivity as humans are capable of, avoiding so far as possible any bias in favor either of unions or of management. AVhat we want to do is to focus attention on the fact that there is a third party involved, namely, the public — the innocent bystanders, whose interests arc seldom adequately represented and, indeed, are apt to be ignored. The intent of our Symposium is to speak out for them." 


LAW ASSOCIATION LUNCHEON 
The luncheon of the Notre Dame Law .Association, held annually in connection with the -American Bar .Association meeting, has been scheduled for 12:30 p.m. on Thursday. September 1 in the Jefferson Room of the Mayflower Hotel in Wash­ington, D.C. Mr. Thomas L. McKcvitt, '34L, is serving as chairman of the affair. If you are in or near Washington on the first of September, plan to attend. 


FACULTY NOTES 
Mr. Thomas F. Broden, Jr., has been promoted to the rank of full professor. Professor Broden has been appointed to the Committee on .Administrative Law of the .Association of .American Law Schools. The law schools of the following universi­ties are also represented on the committee: University of California, Columbia Univcr­sit}-, Han-ard University, University of Minnesota, Northwestern University and Stanford University. 
-Assistant Dean Broderick was one of a panel of three experts in the field of labor relations who participated in a Regional .Advisor)- Conference, held in Chicago on .April 21 under the auspices of the National Labor Relations Board. The purpose of the Conference was to consider methods of improving the Board's procedures in vari­ous matters over which it has jurisdiction. 

Professor Robert E. Rodes, Jr., has been awarded a Law Faculty Fellowship by the Ford Foundation and will spend next year at O.xford University in England, doing research on the church-state problem ap-<^ proached from the point of view of legal history-. 
Professor Edward J. Murphy received the third award in the annual Lincoln .Award competition of the Illinois State Bar Association. His paper, entitled "Contract Trends," was published in the -April, 1960, issue of the Illinois Bar Journal. 
Dean O'Meara has been appointed by the Chief Justice of the United States to^ an -Advisorj- Committee on -Appellate Pro-'-­cedure in the Federal Courts- Ser\'ing on the committee with Dean O'Meara are dis­tinguished judges and practicing lawyers from all parts of the countr\-. The chair­man of the committee is Chief Judge E. Barrett Prettyman of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Colum­bia. 
APPOINTMENTS 

Notre Dame is on the list of law schools^ visited annually by representatives of the^ .Attorney General of the United States in connection with the .Attorney General's Re­cruitment Program for Law Honor Gradu­ates. -An offer of employment under this program was received by two members of the Class of 1960, both of whom accepted, namely, Mr. John F. Beggan of WatertouTi, \Visconsin and Mr. G. Robert Blakey of Burlington, North Carolina. 
Mr. Paul H. Titus of Bradford, PennsyI-0 vania, and Mr. William E. Borror of South Bend, Indiana, will serve as law clerks for United States District Judges Suygert and Grant of the Northern District of Indiana. Mr. Nicholas J. Neiers of Cascade, Iowa, who, like Messrs. Titus and Borror, is also a member of the Class of 1960, will serve .IS law clerk for Judge Roger J. Kiley of the .Appellate Court of Illinois. *{ 
Mr. Robert P. Mone, '59L of Columbus, Ohio, having recently completed a tour of duty in the .Army, has accepted appoint­ment as law clerk for United States Dis­trict Judge Charles J. McNamee in Cleve­land. 




MMetics 
Right: The Monogram Club paid tribute 
^ o the nicnior>- of the late Joe Boland at the annual meeting held in conjunction with the 1960 reunions in June. Watching retiring president Bill Schmitt lay a wreath at Joe's grave are (I. to r.) Monogram Club members Don Miller, Harrj- Stuhl­dreher, Laurence (Moon) Mullins, Joe Byrne, Joe Kuharich, Father Vincent 
Mooney, and Herb Jones. 

Below: Lining up with the squad at the opening o( another great baseball season (see 1960 record on page 26) arc three faces familiar to generations of Irish ath­letes, (from left) field house superintendent Pat Singleton, head baseball coach Clar­ence (Jake) Kline, and veteran grounds­keeper Joe Dierickx. 
Below: At a New York reception during' the last N.C.A.A. coaches' meetings, you might be able to make out the faces of the following Irish athletes and guests (roughly, 
I. to r. by rows): Joe Kuharich, Joe Ete Franco, Joe Byrne, Johnny Kelly, Chuck RifHc and Walt O'Meara; Ed Kosky, Pat Filley, Ed Krause, Joe McKeon, Milt Piepul, Bing Binkowski, Greg Rice, Harry Stuhldreher, and Harrj- Wright; John Law, Bob Wilke, Chuck Collins, Dan Culhane, Joe Callahan, Fr. Dineen, Andy Puplis, Butch Bruno, and Jim White; Larry Mul­lins, Clair (Turk) Rively, Bob Dove, Fr. Joyce, Bill Smyth, George Dickson, Bud Kerr, Jim McGoldrick, Angc Bcrtelli, Fred Carideo, Andy Pilney, George Plain, John Mazur, Ken Stillcy, Lou Rymkus, Hemic Crimmins, and Jim Leary; Owen Murphy, Har\-ey Foster, Max Bumell, and Tom Powers. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 25 

farij Teams Win % Lose 40 in 1 
FOOTBALL  ND  3  Princeton  5  ND  3  Illinois  IC4A  Meet:  Notre  Dame,  
NDN D  Won 5, Lost 5  28 No. CarolinaPurdue —  . _  8 28  NDNDNT3ND  9 7 9 6  Marquette Wisconsin Purdue Indiana  0 2 0  .— 3  ND NT) ND ND  16 17 9 15  Mejnp. Na\'y .Ark. State Merop. State .Ark. State  0 3 4 4  fourth. NCAA Meet:fourth.   Notre m Dame,  
ND  28  California  6  ND  7  Iowa  2  NT)  7  David Lipscomb _  6  
N D  0  Mich. State  19  NT3  3  Northwestern  6  ND  4  .Aust. Peay  6  
ND  24  Northwestern  30  ND  7  Ohio State  2  ND  6  Vanderbilt  4  
N D  25  Na%y  :  22  ND  5  Western Mich.  4  ND  7  Purdue  2  
NDND  10 13  Georgia Tech. Pittsburgh  _  14  28  NDND  9 5  Toledo Michigan  State  ._.  0 4  ND ND  4 2  Bowling Green  6 3  Indoors  
N DNDNDN D ND ND ND ND ND   20 low-a . 19  16 Southern Cal. — 6 BASKETBALL Won 17, Lost 9  77 Western III. 59 56 Mich. State ._.— 61 78 Wisconsin . 58 93 Northwestern — 88 67 Air Force Acad._ 52 70 Nebraska . 62 67 Loyola ... 4'i  ND 5 Michigan 4 ND 5 Southern 111. 4 ND 5 Detroit 4 NCAA tournament — Don Ralph ^vas beaten by Nagler, from UCLA, in the quarter finals of singles play. Don Ralph and Bill Hein­becker were beaten by Nag­ler and Fox, from UCL.A, in the quarter-finals of doubles play.  ND 14 Bowling Green ND 8 Michigan NT) 12 Western Mich ND 1 Wisconsin NT) 3 Michigan State .. ND 8 Michigan State .. ND 9 Ohio U. ND 14 Northwestern ND 0 Kent State ND 3 Kent State ND 6 'Minnesota ND 4 *Ohio U. * Denotes NCAA games  0 4 2 i3 1 0 1 0 1 15 5  ND 53}4 Missouri 50J4 NT) 87 Purdue 17 (® ND 64 Pittsburgh 40 Michigan State Relays: Notre Dame, first in sprint medley. Central Collegiate Conference: Notre Dame, second with 72 points. 1C4A in New York City: Notre Dame, tied for sixtbot mth 12 9/10. Ron Greg^^  
ND  82  Purdue  79  FENCING  ory  — first  in  mile.  Tom  
ND NDND 60  65 76 Indiana ..  North Carolina.  Butler  71 51  NT3 Won 14, Lost 2  19 Case Tech _..  8  SWIMMING  Reichert—tiepole vault.   for  first  in  
NDND  75 73  Detroit DePaul  63  70  NDND  22 Indiana Tech 15 Fcnn  5  12  Won 7, Lost 3  
ND  75  S t Fran. (Pa.)  _  56  NT5  20 Buffalo  7  ND  69 S t  Lom's  25  
NDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDNDND  61 65 67 71 87 65 79 70 87 65  Detroit  Bradley .  Illinois ..  Canisius  .Army  Kentucky Butler  DePaul  Eransville Louis\'ilIe  ...  68 86 71 65 55 68 62 58  92  54  NDNT)NDNDNDNDNDNTDNDND  17 Syracuse 10  16 Air Force -Acad. „ 11  19 Michigan State .... 8  17 Iowa .­ 10  19 Indiana 8  13 Wayne State 14  21 Chicago 6  17 Detroit 10  16 Michigan State _.. 11  16 Ohio State 11  NT) 60 Central Mich. ND 50 Northwestern .. ND 45 Ohio U. NT3 51 Western Mich. ND 35 Bowling Green ND 54 Detroit TechNT) 55 Loyola (Chgo.)ND 66 Pituburgh 34 44 50 44 60 _ 41  .... 40  _. 29  Outdoors ND 68 .Army ND 69 Michigan Statel^ 7* ND 75 Marquette 56 Texas Rela}^: Distance Med­ley Relay — Notre Dame, second.  
ND 76 Crcighton 64 ND 66 •Ohio U. 74 * Denotes NCAA tournament  NDND  11 Illinois 15 WisconsinGOLF  .„  16  12  ND 37 North CentralL«yola Relays: ND — Jim Carroll firstdiving.   58  in  Ohio State Relays: Ron Greg­ory, first, 880-Meter Run; Pole Vault-Tom Reichert, first; Sprint Medley-Notre^ Dame, (Fitzpatrick, Sch!*-'  
WRESTLING  Won 11, Lost 3  \vartz,  Hempliill,  Gregory),  
Won 3, Lost 5 ND 20 111. U. (Chi.) _ 6 N D 14 Findlay Coll, .. .. 16 ND 22 Wayne U. „ 6 ND 10 Western Mich. _ 17 N D 21 Chicago U. _ 11 ND 13 Wheaton Col. _ 21 ND 16 Cincinnati _ 11 ND 5 Northwestern .. ... 28 ND 12 Miami (Ohio) _ 16 ND 26 8 Wheaton In\'itatJonaI: ND—Jerry Sachsel 2nd at 123 pounds.  ND XS'/i Northern I1I._ I6/2 NT3 10 ^ Bowling Gr. _ 7"^ ND 18 DePaul 0 NT) 13 Iowa 23 ND 24 Western 111. _ 12 ND 32 }4 Bellarraine ._. 3/= ND 22>^ Northwestern­ 13^4' ND 27 Hillsdale 9 ND 24 Indiana 12 ND 20 Purdue 16 ND IT/i Mich. State . _ 18/s ND 14 Tri-State 4 NT> 7 Western Mich. 11 ND 10/2 Detroit 7/2 NCAA tournament: Notre Dame ranked 11th in team standings.  TRACK Won 5, Lost 4 (dual meets only, including cross-countr>') Cross-Countiy ND 26 Marquette 31 ND 35 Indiana •>1 ND 42 Michigan State ­_ 17 Seven-Team Meet: Western Michigan 28, first; Notre Dame 32, second; Kentucky 73, third.  first; Hop-Step-Jump-Dick Monjeau, third; 100-Yard Dash-Jerry Fitzpatrick, fourth; 400-Yard Relay-Notrc Dame, second; 1500 Meter Rim-Tom Dempsey, fifth; Distance Medley Re­lay-Notre Dame, fourth. ,• Drake Relays: Sprint Medley-Notre Dame, fifth; 100-Yard Dash-Jerry Fitzpatrick , third; Mile Run-Ron Greg­ory, secand; Hop-Step-Jump-Dick Monjeau, fourth; Pole Vault-Tom Reichert, tied for fifth.  
TENNIS  Big State Meet: Notre Dame?*'  
ND Won 14, Lost 0 Yale  4  6  BASEBALL Won 19, Lost 7  Big State Meet: Indiana, first; Notre Dame, second.  first; Indiana andtied for second.   Purdue  
N D  2  Harvaid  7  ND  10  Indiana  7  Central  Collegiate  Conference  Central  Collegiate  Conference  
N DND26  9 Mer. Mar. .Acad._ 0 N D 9 NYU 0 NT5 Notre Dame Alumnus, September,  8 Eransvjlle 8 Murray (Ky.) 1960   ....  6 1  Meet: Western Michigan, first; Notre Dame, second.  Meet: Kansas 71;Dame 42; Iowa 37.   Notre •3  

Varsity Alphabetical Rostei 
(As of August 15, I960) 

NO. NAME POS. AGE HT. \S-£. 
40 Alicrn, Bill FB 19 200 63 Augustine, Charlie G 20 6-3 203 
Barber, Dick HB 21 5-10 173 71 •Bill, Bob T 20 6-2 220 8G Boulac, Brian E 19 6-4 195 
*Buoniconti, Nick G 20 5-11 210 72 Burke, Ed T 18 fi-I 225 83 •Bumell, lla.t E 20 6-3 193 24 Caito, Leo _™. HB 19 6-1 170 
73 20 230 
*CaroIIo, Joe T 6-2 
2 21 173 
Castin, Jack QB 6-0 
21 180 

23 Clark, Bill HB 5-11 
57 19 213 
Clements, Bill C 6-1 
82 19 220 
Cullen, Jack E 6-1 
20 165 

44 •Dabiero, Angelo HB 5-8 
67 19 210 
DcPola, Nick G 6-2 
19 163 

Eck, Ed QB 5-11 
20 200 

Ford, Bill E 6-2 
21 190 

39 Gargiulo, Frank ,„ FB 6-0 
20 210 

Grau, Frani:is G 6-2 
19 190 

33 •Gray, Gerrj' _ FB 6-2 
21 183 

31 Griffith, Dan FB 5-10 II •Haffner, George QB r9 6-0 180 
203 

53 •HecomoWdi, Tom . C 20 6-3 
190 
30 

Hcnneghan, Bill FB 21 6-2 
210 
54 

Hoerster, Ed C 18 6-1 
213 
50 

••Hurd, Dave „ C 22 6-2 
173 
56 

Kane, Jim . _ G 21 5-9 
220 
77 

Kolasinski, Dan T 19 6-2 200 Kolski, Steve _„ E 19 6-3 
210 

68 Koreck, Bob _, T 21 6-2 
205 53 Kutzai-itch, Bill C 18 6-2 203 3 Lamonica, Dar%-Ic QB 19 6-2 203 65 Lehmann, Joe G 19 G-0 193 48 Liggio, Tom HB 20 5-II 193 32 Lind, Mike FB 20 6-1 203 51 Linehan, John C 21 6-0 193 62 Loula, James G 20 6-0 173 5 Luecke, Dan QB 21 6-0 173 23 ••Mack, Bill HB 6-0 203 
23 20 19 

70 Magnotta, Mike _ G 5-10 188 
Maxwell, Joe HB 5-11 203 
19 

84 Mikacich. Jim E 6-2 163 28 Minik, Frank „__ HB 5-7 185 
19 22 

Monahan, Tom E 6-2 200 83 Murphy, Dennis _ E 19 6-2 190 
19 

36 Xaab, Richard FB 6-0 205 
21 

69 Nissi, Paul G 6-0 190 
19 

21 O'Hara, Chuck .. HB 19 64) 230 79 Oldendick, Ken T 6-3 
200 
20 

190 41 183 38 •Perkowski, Joe ,. FB 6-0 
19 

Peterson, Mike _ HB 6-1 
19 

43 215 
Phillips. Dennis HB 6-0 
21 

61 215 
•Pictrzak, Bob _ T 6-3 
21 

75 205 
••Potdos, MyTon (Capt.) G 6-2 
20 

80 180 
Powers, John „„ E 6-2 
18 

6 183 
Rascltcr, Norb QB 6-1 
21 

35 183 
•Ratkowski, Ray _„„_ _ HB 6-1 
20 

42 193 
Reillv, Marshall HB 5-11 
20 

60 193 
•Roy, Norb G 5-10 
19 
180 

Rutkowski, Ed QB 21 6-1 
190 

37 ••Scarpitto, Bob HB 20 5-11 
170 

9 •Schuk, Clay QB 20 6-1 
215 

•Sefcik, George ™ HB 20 5-8 
210 

Seller, Leo „ E 19 6-3 
200 

Sheehan, Dennis _ E 19 6-1 
220 

87 Sherlock, Jim E 19 6-0 
220 

74 Slafkosky, John _ T •20 6-1 
215 

Snyder, Bill T 18 6-1 
210 

Stratts, George — T 19 6-0 
190 

Tocchini, Ron FB 20 6-1 
210 

•Travcr, Lcs E 20 6-2 
190 

Viola, Gene C 19 6-1 
220 

Vogcl, Harold E 20 6-2 
225 

Ward, Bob _____ T 20 6-1 215 78 WIke, Roger T 20 6-1 195 76 •Williams, George T 18 6-2 66 Wood, Greg G 6-0 HOME TOWN 
Chicago, 111. San. Rafael, Cal. _ Logan, W. Va. Garden Citj-, N.Y. 01>-mpia, Wash. . Springfield, Mass. Chicago, III. E\'anston, III. Cleveland, Ohio Wyandotte, Mich. Okmulgee, Okla. Youngstown, Ohio Philadelphia, Pa. San Francisco, Cal. Donf>ra, Pa. Portage, Pa. Richmond. Va. __ Benton, Harbor. Mich. North Bergen, N.J. Baltimore, >Id. . Baltimore,' Md. . River Forest, III. __ _ Chicago, III. Bovey, Minn. _______ Detroit, Mich. Chicago. III. Three Rivers, Mich. Bloomington. 111. ___ 
Toledo, Ohio Hialeah, Fla. Philadelphia, Pa. Moon Run, Pa. Clovis, Calif. Louisville, Ky. . 
W. New York, N.J. Chicago, 111. Tulsa, Okb. Rock Iskind, 111. Los Angeles, Cal. Allison Park. Pa. Albion, Mich. Glen Side, Pa. Sacramento, Calif. _ Vandcrgrift, Pa. . Arcob, 111. South Bend, Ind. _ Rock Island. 111. Haverhill, Mass. . Milmout, Pa. — „ Cincinnati, Ohio Wilkes-Barrc, Pa. _ Kansas City, Katis. Pittsburgh, Pa. Hamtramck, Mich. Van Voorhis, Pa. _. Harvard, 111. Cleveland, Ohio . Glendale, N.Y. Attleboro, Mass. — Baton Rouge, La. Kingston, Pa. Rahway, N.J. Schofield, Wis. Cleveland, Ohio Wichita, Kans. LeMats, Iowa _­Chicago, III. Bethlehem, Pa. Hinsdale, 111. Chester, Pa. San Francisco, Cal. Toledo, Ohio Sczanton, Pa. Pittsburgh, Pa. Binghampton, N.Y. Hamilton, Ohio — MaishHeld, Mass. San Francisco, Cal. 
HIGH SCHOOL 
_ Loyola Academy -Marin -Logan -Garden City -Olympia .Cathedral — _^rendel _St. George .. Cathedral Latin _Roo5evelt _ Okmulgee _East _LaSa]le . —Sacred Heart _Donora „ Portage .Benedictine _St. John . _West New York, N.Y. .Calvert Hall .Calvert Hall .Fenwick _Mt. Camel -Coleraine Greenway _De LaSalle _St. Rita's _Three Rivers _Holy Trinity _ Central Catholic . _ Archbishop Curley _N. E. Catholic .Montour .Clovis _Fbget _St. Joseph .Calumet .Caida Hall .Alleman _ Notre Dame .Hampton Township .Albion .LaSalle .Bishop Armstrong .Vandcrgrift 
.Areola 
.John Adams .Alleman _ .Haverhill _St. James (Chester) .Purcell .Coughlin . .Ward .Mt . Lebanon .Detroit Central Catholic . .Charleroi : _ — .Campion, Wis." . .Cathedral Latin „St- Francis (Brooklyn) .Attleboro . _ .Istrouma .Kingston _ _ .Rahway _D . C. Everest .Benedictine . .Kapaun _ .Gehlen .Mt. Carmel -AUentown Cential Catholic .Hinsdale ..., —_—-—. .St. James , . .St. Ignatius .Alliance, Ohio .Central .Mt . Lebanon .Valley Forge (Wayne, Pa.) .Hamilton Catholic _ .Archbishop WilUams .St. Ignatius 
CL.ASS 
_Jr. 
-Jr. 
-Jr. -So. _Jr. -.So. .Jr. ..Sr. 
-Jr. 
-Jr. 
Sa. 
-Jr. -Sr. -Jr. -Jr­..Sr. 
-Jr. -Jr. -Sr. 
_So. 
-^. 
-So. 
-Jr. 
-So. 
-Sr. 
-Jr­
-Jr. 
-Jr. -So. -Sr. 
-So. 
-Jr. 
_Sr. 
-So. 
.So. 
-Jr. 
-So. 
-Jr. 
-Sr. -So. -Jr. -So. 
-Jr. 
-Jr. 
—'.—So..  Jr.  So.. 
-Jr. -Jr­-So. 
 Jr.  Jr.  So. 
* Denotes Monograms Won. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 27 


'Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 
S. Eugene SullK-an, '25, 1707 Wellington Rd., Birmingham 9, Ala. 
ARIZONA 
Phoenix—HT. Dale H. Stannard, M5, 1319 AV. Missouri, Phoenix, Aiizona. Tucson—Robert O'Callaghan, '45, 725 Camtno ^fira­monte, Tucson, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS 
Fort Sm!lh—]zmcs A. Gilker, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. LillU Kofi—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crest-wood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 
Cen/ro/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secretary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Cal. I^jig B^acA—Edmond W. Sheeran, '31, 206 E. Fourth St., Long Beach 12, Cal. I^s Angeles—iloTton R. Goodman, '30, 9441 Wil­shire Blvd., Bexerly Hills, Cal. ATor/ACTn—WUiam Shine, '49, 710 LaPrenda Rd., Los Altos, Cal. Criijige Counlj^Willard R. Vangen, '49, 11732 Blue Jay Lane, Garden Grove, Cal. Sacramento—Thomas G. Kassis, '31, 4601 Nickels Way, Sacramento 25, Cal. .Son fl.Vso—Richard X. Martin, '45, 2669 "C" St., San Diego 2, Cal. San Fernanda Valley—John N. Leonard, '34, 6531 BulTalo .Ave., Van Nuy^, Cal. San Gabriel I'oHo^-Benjamin B. Salvaty, Jr., '32, 508 N. Vega St., Alhamhra, Cal. 
COLORADO 
i)enc<-r—Carl F. Eibetger, '52, 1300 Telephone Bldg., Denver 2, Colo. Southern Colorado—A. Jack Thomas, '49, 3222 Rat St., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecticut Valley—James F. Flaherty, Jr., '53, 12 Tumblebrook Rd., Rocky Hill, Conn. Ftarfield County—^\Villiam Mulrcnan, '37, 100 Tide-mill Terrace, Fjiirfield, Conn. Xaugaluck—Mrci E. Sullivan, '52, 301 Dorchester, Waterbury, Conn. Hew Haven—Joseph B. Clark, '54, 337 Humphrey St., Neu- Haven, Conn. 
DELAWARE 
James J. Coleman, '46, 219 Oakwood Road, Wil­mington, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Robert N. Hutchinson, '55, 12 East Lenox St., CheiT Chase, Sid. 
FLORIDA 
Central—Roy B. LaughUn, '4S, 2061 Rockledge, Rocklcdge, Fla. Fori Lauderdale—Rich^ird T. Whalen, '42, 712 . Northwest 29th Court, Wilton Manors, Ft. Lau­derdale, Fla. Greater Miami—James A. Smith, '48, 672 N.E. 98th St., Miami Shores, Fku North Florida—Ceroid B. Johnson, '50, 4540 Mil-stead Rd., Jacksonnlle 5, Fla. Palm Beach Countj—William Sladden, '42, 315 Worth Ave., Palm Beach, Ha. Pmsacola—Patrick J. Guimlng, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Pensacola, Fla. | 

28 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
St. Peleriburs-Tampa-Maik E. Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta-James E. Barnard, '49, Acting President, 2012 Juanita St., Decatur, Ga. 
HAWAn 
Donald C. Machado, '50, 99-I39F Keen Way, Aiea, Hawaii. 
m.AHO 
James J. Carberry, '41, 8507 Vincent St., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '23, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 



ILLINOIS 
Aurora—Owen Kane, , '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, III. Central Illinois—Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 
S. Fifth St., Springfield, III. Chicago—Fbnip J. Faccenda, '52, I5I0 Ogden Ave., LaGrange, III. Decatur—^Milton J. Beaudine, '54, 76 E. Court Dr., Decatur, III. Eastern Illinois—Eduard J. Laydsn, '41, Hoopeston, Illinois. Fox KoHo—George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, III. Joliet—John Lux, Jr., '53, c/o Herald Ne\«, 78 Scott St., Joliet, III. Kankakee Valley—ThoTnas J. Reynolds, '54, 343!4 S. Winfield, Kankakee, III. La Salle County Club—John T. Clark, '49, 726 Sherwood, Ottawa, Illinois. McHenry County—Joseph A. Conerty, Jr., '44, 116 Benton St., Woodstock, III. Peoria—Maurice Cicdarellt, '55, 5175 Prospect Rd., Peoria, III. ffoa/ord—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 West State St., Rockford, III. Rock River Valley—IjAe R. Morin, '53, 523 N. Dixon Ave., Dixon, III. 
Southern Cook County—^Angelo A. Ciambrone, '57, 168 Hawlhome Lane, Chicago Heights, III. 
INDIANA 
Calumet Dislricl-TSen R. Danko, '51, 1801 Cleve­kmd Ave., Whiting, Ind. Eastern Indiana—William B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford City, Ind. HJlAnr/—Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. EvansviUe—Donald F. Hallcr, '43, 716 S. Villa, E\ansvtlle 14, Ind. Fort It'a)"'—Paul O. Schirmeyer, '48, 904 E. Wash­ington Center Rd., Ft. Wa>-nc, Ind. Indianapolis—Patrick J. Fitzgerald, *53, 7524 N. Pennsj'lvania St., Indbnapolis, Ind. Michigan City—Dr. Ftands J. Kubik, '36, 902 Pine, Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Valley—Joseph E. Hickey, '50, 1131 E. Eckman SL , South Bend 14, Ind. Terrc Haute—Paul A. Marietta, '44, 3027 North 11th St., Terre Haute, Ind. Wabaih Valley—James W. Gbser, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 
Bur/i'ng/on—Louis Lauth, Jr., '45, 322 N. Fourth, Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—George Benning, '49, R.R. 3, Cedar Rapids, lou-a. 
Des Moines—Thomas J. Nolan, Jr., *54, 235 In­surance Exchange Bldg., 5th and Grand Ave., Des Moines, Iowa. 

Dubuque—Rex*. AVilliam Kunsch, '37, Loras College, ! Dubuque, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land—Rajinond B. Duggan, *43 (Secretary), ; 3244 Jackson, Sioux City, lou-a. gf-} Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Mo^ l 
line)—William J. Laffan, *52, 2715 E. Hayes, \ Davenport, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 5o7infl—Thomas Ketmedy, '51, 1900 Gebhart, Salina, Kansas. II'icAi/n—John L. Weigand, '54, 303 N. Dellrose, Wichita 8, Kansas. ^ 
KENTUCKY 

Paul A. Malonej-, '52, 3721 Winchester, Louis-|
ville, Ky. I 
LOUISIANA 

Ark-La-Tex—Georse J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. New Orleans—James E. Smith, '50, 6414 Carrier Dr., New Orleans, La. 
<^ 
MAINE 

Lewiston, Me.—J. Leonard Tobin, '38, 50 Russell « St., Lewiston, Me. ^ 
MARYLAND | 

Baltimore—Francis J. Murphy, III, '36, 634 Picca-| dilly Rd., Towson 4, Md. j 
MASSACHUSETTS *•. 

Berkshire County—James J. O'Brien, '34, 197 , Bartlett Ave., Pittsfield, Mass. 1 BoKon—William E. Daoey, Jr., '49, 16 Darrell Dr., : Randolph, Mass. Pioneer Valley—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, 11 P>TI-; chon Rd., Holyoke, Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Cr«i—Ra>-mond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St#; Joe, Nilcs, Mich. *^ Blue Water Dij/rirl—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—Emory Dakoske, '53, 14925 Cicotte, Allen Park, Mich. Delroil—J. Louis Conroy, '27, 1365 Cass Ave., Detroit 26, ilich. Hint—Victor E. George, '53, J42G Eldorado Dr., Flint, Midi. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, *40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Michigan. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Frank Ealtf,') Ion, '33, Ambcrt, Law & Fallon, 500 Micliigan * Trust Bldg., Grand Rapids, Mich. Hiawathaland—Donald T. Trottier, '44, 6W Lud­ington St., Escanaba, Mich. Jackson—Carl F. Bachle, Jr., '52, 1412 Larry's Drive, Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo—Joseph O'Keefe, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Slich. Louring—Clement E. McFarlane, '38, 1638 Welling­ton Rd., Lansing, Michigan. ^.« .1/onror—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St." i Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—G. Leonard Pucd, '47, 3103 Easthnd , Rd., Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley—George Ward, '40, 205 Park, Bay ; City, Mich. Top oj Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 "-i East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 

MINNESOTA 

DululhSuptrior—^James P. Kcough, '35, (treasurer), 2705 East Fifth St., Duluth, Minn. Twin CidVj—Joseph T. O'N'eill, '53, 2118 Baj-ard Are., St. Paul 16, Minn. 

MISSISSIPPI 

^William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jack­^ ^ son. Miss. 
AnSSOURI 

Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—^John T. Massman, '56, 1207 Romany Rd., Kansas City, Mo. St. Louis—J. Donald Ratchford, '50, 9705 Madison, Rock Hill 19, Mo. 


MONTANA 

^'Bernard Gniincy, '43, 906 11th Avenue, Helena, Mont. 

NEBRASKA 

Omaha and Council B/u^j—William Seidler, '52, 4817 California St., Omaha, Neb. 

NEW JERSEY 

Central—Joseph J. Scpkoski, *50, 1155 Loraine Ave, Plainfield, X. J. 
»
Nezv Jersey—William L. Kirchner, Jr., *51, Pru­dential Insurance Co. of ^Vmcrica, 763 Broad St., Newark, N. J. 
South Jerseys—Thomas J. Auchter, '50, Munn Lane & Kay Drive, HaddonGeld, N. J. 

NEW MEXICO 

Anthony F. Potenziani. '40, 1817 Sigma Chi, N.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 

NEW YORK 

% Buffalo—John F. Endeis, '53, 408 Capen Blvd., BulTalo 26, N'. Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 441 Louden­»-ilIe Rd., Albany 11, N. Y. Cfn/roZ—William V. Dn7er, '46. 412 E. Xfanchester Rd., Si-racuse 4, N. Y. Golden Circle—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Park»-ay Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson KoHo"—Donald J. Reynolds, '53, 118 South Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. .Mohawk ro/fe}—Daniel E. Walcrbury, '48, 76 
Herlhum Rd., Whitesboro, X. Y. ^New York C.'O^Williara V. Cuddy, '52, 193 Co­~ lumbus Ave., White Plains, N. Y. 
RocheslcT—Moraid Booth, '49, 320 Carling Rd., Rochester 9, N. Y. Schenectady—Leon St. Pierre, '55, c/ o G.E. Com­pany, P.O. Box 1088, Schenecudy, N. Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edvv-in Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—George J. Haines, '42, 63 Davis, Binghamton, New York. 

» NORTH CAROLINA 
North Carolina Club—Donald Kebcy, '48, 1115 Westridge Rd., Greensboro, N. C. 

NORTH DAKOTA 

William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 

^ OHIO 
Akron—John L. Daiago, '54, 1361 Hammel St., Akron, Ohio. 
Canton—James F. Weber, '57, Editorial Dept., Canton Repository, 500 Xfarket Ave. South, Gtn­ton, Ohio. 
Cinrfnnj/t—Bcrtrand A. Schloemer, "38, 2818 Ur­^ uiler Ave., Cincinnati 11, Ohio, 
Cleveland—Leo J. Burby, '42, 2606 E. Overlook Rd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio. Columbus—^J. Robert Echenrode, '48, 375 East Dunedin Rd., Columbus 14, Ohio. Dayton—Geoi^e A. Pflaum, Jr., '54, 1705 Harvard 
Blvd., Dayton 6, Ohio. Hamilton—Jcramc A. Rj-an, '41, 353 South "D " . St., Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfield-John C. O'Connell, '24, 191 Lind Ave., 
Mansfield, Ohio. iVor(Au>M(«rn—William J. Ottc, '35, 401 West Park St., Coldualer, Ohio. OAio Valley—James J. Haranzo, '52, 29 Oakland Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. .^nn^/uli}—Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastwood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio. TiTfin—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. Tofedo—Richard J. Kopf, '49, 2250 Castlewood Dr., Toledo 13, Ohio. Youngstown—Tliomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 

OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City—Dr. Al R. Drescher, '38, 4413 
N. Thompson, Oklahoma City, Okb. 

TUZKI—John F. Mohatt, '35, 3754 East 46th PI., Tulsa 35, Okla. 

OREGON 

Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19th Ave., Port­land 12, Oregon. 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41, 
U. S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. Erie—^John AfcCormick, Jr., '53, 910 ^Vashinston Place, Erie, Pa. /farrufeurg—Donald R. Xrcek, '50, 520 Park Ave., Ne^v* Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Valley—John. B. AfagiU, '54, 850 No. I8th St., Allentown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis ^\^ Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Browns\*ilIe, Pa. Philadelphia—John F. Moorhcad, '49, 159 Vassar Road, Bab-Cynwjd, Pa. /*i//i5urgft—Peier F. Flaherty, '51, 5820 Elwood St., Pittsburgh 32, Pa. Scranton—Thomas P. Comerford, '42, 415 Clark Ave., Clarks Summit, Pa. JVilkes-Barre—Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, AVilkes-Barre, Pa. 
IVilliamsport—Edward F. O'Dea, '57, 1254 Park Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 

James M. XfcMullen, '36, Providence Journal, Pro\-idencc, Rhode Island. 

SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., West­wood, Charleston, So. Car. 

SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black //i7fa—Bernard Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 

TENNESSEE 

Chattanooga—Ucrhcrt J. Haile, Jr., *55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallic Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. Memphis—Ra>-mond ^^oTan, '54, 1886 ^^onticelIo Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 

TEXAS 

Dallas—John H. Brogan, '49, P.O. Box 786, Tyler, Texas. El Paso—^James J. R>nn, '53, c/o Murray Hotel, Silver City, New Mexico. 
/fouifon—Lawrence J. Kelley, '42, 5025 Woo<n%ar, Houston, Texas. Midland-Odessa—U. Byrne O'Neill, '45, 703 Boyd,. Midbnd, Texas. Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, *49. 1205 W-Elizabeth, Browns\*ille, Texas. San ^n/onfo—William F. Markey, *51, 8746 Crown­faill, San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH 

Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

Andrew E. O'Keefe, '33, 814 St. Christopher, Richmond 20, Va. rfdraol^r—Philip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 

WASHINGTON 

,S;ioiane—Robert F. Sferz, '47, East 229 Sharp Ave., Spokane 2, Wash. Western—Theodore P. Cummings, '44, Dorc, Cum­mings & Dubuar, 905 American Bldg., Scittle 4, Wash. 

>VEST VIRGINIA 

Rudolph L. Di Tiapano, '50, 2308 Kanawha Blvd., Charleston, West Virginia. Cfn(r<i/—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Bat 2063, Oarksburg, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN 

Fax Riser Valley—Jtslph H. Caston, '42, 530 Grove, Neenah, Wis. Gr«7l Bo)"—Walkice P. Christman, '44, 2423 Beau­mont St., Green Bay, Wis. £aCro«e—Gerald Heberlein, '50, 503 S. 22nd St., LaCrosse, Wis. .UerriU—Augustus H. Smnge, '27, 102 S. Prospect, Xfcrrill, VTa. Milwaukee—John Linnehan, '40, 7318 W. Blue-mound Rd., Wauwatosa, Wis. ^%rthwest Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 21914 Barstow, Eau Claire, ^Vis. South Centra/—William P. Corgan, '35, 310 Ridge St., Mineral Point, Wis. Southeastern—Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 21st St., Racine, Wis. 
^VYOMING 

Casper—Patrick H. ^feenan. Acting Pres., *49, 
• Midwtst Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper. Wyo. 

FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24 (key man], Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Conorfir—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. 
Ecuorfor—John Jfoeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. Guam—Capt. V. T. BIaz, *51, Marine Barracks, Navy 925, c/ o F.P.O., San Francisco, Cal. .\fanila—John F. Gotuaco, '24, 1316 Pcnnsj-lvania, Manila, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Ponama—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa 
Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—Enrique L'ulli, *45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. Puerto Bico — Vice-Ptes.: Paul McMauus, '34, 
B4M Products Co., Box 2693, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Rome—Secretary: Vincent G. McAIoon, '34, c/o • Notre Dame International School, Via Aurelia 796, Rome, Italy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 29 


CALENDAR 

Regularly scheduled dub meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reser\'ed for lunch at K. of C , 506 Dela^varc Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CED.AR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy. DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Greidcr's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. DENV'^ER—First Wednesday of every month, luncheon, Na\-arre Restaurant, Denver. DETROIT—^First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon, Jacoby's 624 Brush. ERIE—^First Friday dinner meeting with wvcs, Ander's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., Sept thru June, Eric, Pa. PORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. INDIANAPOLIS — Every Thursday noon at the Indianapolis Bar Association, 33 
North Pennsylvania St, Indianapolis, Ind. KANS.A.S CITi'—Call Plaza 3-2160. MIAMI—^First Thursday (night) of every 
month at Hotel Everglades, Biscayne Boulcv-ard, Do^vnto\vn Miami. 
OKL.\HOMA CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PH1L.4DELPHL\—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 

PITTSBURGH —Weekly luncheon at the Varietj* Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m., Home Dair>', 111 East Main, second floor. 

ROME — Open House nightly, Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant, Via Merulana 256, ph. 734619. Ask for Vincc Mc-Moon, club host 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Tuesday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
AVASHINGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 


ALUMNI 

Akron 
MOOSE KR.\USE, '34, treated a record Univer­sal Notre Dame XJght gathering with an informa­tive and humorous talk on the problems and pre­dicaments that confront an athletic director. TIic Moose ivas given a resounding introduction by DON MILLER, '25, of Four Horseman fame who drove dou-n from Cleveland for the event. JOHN DETT­LIXG, JR., '21, prominent Akron businessman, was honored as Notre Dame Man of the Year. The av^'ard presentation was made by BILL BURK­HARDT, '35, preWous N.D. Man of tlic Year. JI.M WALTER, '50, cliainnan for the event, also did a creditable Job as master of ceremonies. Com­mittee for U.N.D. night included Dr. GEORGE SOLOMON, H3; DAN MOTZ, '54; and GEORGE DEKANY, '49. Among the 140 Alumni, wives and guests were former N.D. greats, STAN COFALL, '17; STEVE SITKO, '41; JOHN MOIR, '38; PAUL DUCHARME, '39; and GEORGE IZO, 'GO. 
.\n Election Meeting u"as held May 24 at Fair-lawn Country- Club with past president JOHN D.\RAGO, '54, presiding. The list of officers will appear in the next Alumnus issue. 
JOE WEIBEL, '56, was made Chairman of the second annual Summer Dance, held at the Univer­sity Club late in August. 

—BRUCE RAFF, *49, Sec%-. 

Alabama 
FATHER RICHARD J. GRINfM'S Spring swing through the South brought him to Birmingham for Universal Notre Dame Night festivities May 7. The young club's biggest ttimout to date was on hand to hear N.D^s religious superior. 
Mucli credit for a successful dinner meeting goes to THONL^S J. BOEHLING, '52, recently named secretary' of the club. Boehling replaces EDWARD 
J. DAILEY, JR., '49, whose work has taken him out of state, 
.\ttcnding the dinner after missing se\'cral func­tions because of F.B.I, duties was EDMUND S. PERT, '52. However, not present ^^'as club cliaplaiii 
FATHER PETER SHEEH.\N, '49, who was tied 
up with parish work. 
DR. PAUL D. SCOFIELD, '20, who holds sen­iority over all N.D. grads in Alabama, expressed pleasure with the growing alumni group in this area, RAYMOND E. FAHERTY, '24; club presi­dent S. EUGENE SULLIVAN and JOSEPH M. HAGERTY, both '25; and JOHN P. BERSCHEID, '29, Were other graduates of the '20s among regu­lar attenders. 
Tlie Club of Alabama obser.'es its second birth­day in August, Plans have long been under vray to make it another success, 
—BOB FLYNN 

Atlanta 
When President RICHv\RD DON'NELLY moved to Dallas last summer the office of president be­came \-acant until the next Club election. Inadver­tantly the .-Vlumni Oflice announced the 1959 Uni­versal Noire Dame Night diainnan, KENNETH G- DAVIS, JR., as acting president rather than the rightful successor, Vice-President J,-\MES E. BARN,\RD, Soooo . . . delayed congratulations to Acting President Barnard and thanks to Ken Davis for straightening us out. 

Baltimore 
J. GILBERT PRENDERGAST, on Universal Notre Dame Night, was honored by the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore as its Notre Dame Man of the Year. Gil was appointed last year to tlic Supreme Bcncli of Baltimore by Governor Millard Tawes. 
Ofiicers for the coming year arc FRANK MUR­PHY, president; DAN SULLIVAN, rice president; BILL GAUDREAU. 5ecrctar>-; and DON GAY­HARDT, treasurer. Tlie executive (steering) com­mittee consists of JI.M MURRAY, JUDGE GIL PRENDERGAST, GREG HALPIN and FRANK HOCHREITER. Tlie program committee includes JOE RYAN, DUANE CONNOLLY, BILL HART­MAN, BILL CAREY and BILL GAUDREAU. DON GAYHARDT is chairman of the student-alumni conuntttec. 
*^\^>l 
Tlie annual family picnic was held August 20" at the Pcdonia Park Club, Cocke\-svillc, Maryland, with suimming pool and other facilities. 
The Baltimore Club's Medals of Honor for out­
standing graduates of the city's four Catholic high 
schools went to James DcBoy, Jr., G. Paul Mont­
gomery-, Michael Walsh and Gerard Streb, 
An attractive ne%vslettcr is now being published to keep members informed of Club aflairs. 


Berkshire County 

The newest addition to the list of local alumni^^ clubs is the Notre Dame Club of the Berkshlrcs.^P It covers Western Massachusetts and Southern Ver­mont with PIttsfield, Massachusetts, as the focal point. 
JI M ROEMER, '51, LLB '55, of the famous South Bend and Notre Dame Roemcrs, was the real spearhead behind the local organization. After his negotiating with the fVlumni Office, the first meeting was held April 4 and the second April 10. Officers elected were: President —JI M O'BRIEN, '34, PIttsfield; \^ce President — JACK DeMOSS, '40, Middleficld; Treasurer—ED REAGr\N, '43, PittsficM; Secretary — FRANK LINEH,\N, '45, Dalton. Others attending the first meetings were: RAY CHAMBERL.VND, '49; BOB ARCHEY, 59'; 0 AL BZDULA, '49; BILL FLAHERTY, '47; JI.M DRESSER, '54; DR. JOE WILK, '31; BOB NES­BIT, '33; FRANK KELLY, '28; GEORGE NES­BIT, '47; TO.M KING, '54 and DR. BERNARD AUGE. 
The interest was extremely high and a U.N.D. night was sclieduled for Thursday, April 21, less than three weeks from the initial meeting. Jim Roemer and Bob Ncsbit headed the committee and really did an outstanding job. Over 125 alumni, wives, students, parents and friends were in the Wendell-Sherwood on the 21st to participate in a tremendous program. ^ ^ 
Starting with a social hour and dinner, then DR.^P JOE AMLK serving as toastntastcr kicked off the program. Words of welcome from Hon, Ra^Tnond Haughey, mayor of PIttsfield; Rt, Rev. Msgr. E. F. ^far5hall, D.D,, dean of Berkshire County; and Club President JI.M O'BRIEN. REV. EDW. L. O'MALLEY, '34, director of the Propagation of the Faith, Diocese of Albany, paid tribute to the guest of honor, JOHN SHErV, '08, Holyokc, co­author with his brother of the Vlctorv' March. Mr. Shea reminisced about the University and had the audience "rolling In the aisles." The president of the Pioneer Valley Club, BILL O'CONNELL, Holvokc, extended !iis best wishes to the aluronl of that area, and NICK BUONICONTI of the foot-| fc ball squad explored the prospects of the coming' season. Tlie principal speaker for the affair was REV. JOS. D. BARRY, C.S.C., ass't. prefect of religion at school, who gave an inspiring talk about the University today. Tlie Notre Dame ^fovie with the late JOE BOLVND narrating, completed the program. It was quite an ambitious program but it went off without a hitch. 
Plans were iminediatelv undcrwav for a lunclicon for DR. TO.M DOOLEY of MEDICO in PItts­field early in June; a summer outing for alumni, students and their families, and a golf outing. 

The Club has great hopes for the future and if^ the first activity is any Indication of what Is tii 9 come, we hope to be one of the leading smaller clubs. 
—FR.\NK LINEH/\N, Scc>-. 


Boston 

Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Boston Club on April 28 at the Bcaconsfield Hotel in Brookllne, with a social hour, dinner and dancing. MSGR. CORNELIUS DONOV^VN, '09, pastor of St, ^tary's Church, West Quincy, was chosen N.D. Man of the Year for 1960 by th^ ^ selection committee headed by CHARLES PATJ ^ TERSON, '44. Prof. JA.MES DINCOLO, head of the department of accountancy at Notre Dame and a Boston native, was the guest speaker. 
Tlic following officers were elected for the com­ing year: WILLIAM E. DACEY, JR., '49, presi­dent; JOHN P. KARLE, '56, vice-president; DOUGLAS D, ROBERTSON, '55, treasurer; and TIM TOOMEY, '30, secretary. ^ 
-30 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
Stoneliill College, North Easton, was again the site of the Boston Club Family Picnic on June 26. TIM TOOMEY has been appointed chairman of a reception to welcome incoming freshmen and to in­troduce the three winners of the Cardinal Cashing Scholarships to Notre Dame. The date and place will be announced through an early Club mailing. 
NEIL FOWLER, '47, has accepted cliairmanship of the Scliolarship Fund Drive and promises more prizes than the Irish Sweepstalies. Members arc urged to contact Neil with any gifts they wish 
j^-to give to the Boston Club's worthiest project. President BILL DACEY has announced that consideration is being given to a four-day, all-cx­pcnse air trip lo Miami for the N.D.-Miami foot­ball game on Nov. 12, 1960. Tlic setup looks like the answer to ^fa^co Polo's and Ponce dc Leon's prayers. Elaborate details are in a Club mailing. All members are incited lo participate in Club functions as active conmiitteemen and should con­tact the secretary'. Don't forget to send in your contribution lo the Notre Dame Foundation Fund for the finest university library in ihc world. We arc looking for^vard to seeing increased numbers ^a t Boston Club affairs this year, and the directors ^an d officers will plan affairs for greater alumni-family interest. TIM TOOMEY, Secy-. 

Buffalo 
At the March meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo, four directors were elected lo 5cr%'e three-year terms from a fine field of nine nom­inees. The new directors arc DON SEIFERT, '49, and PAUL a\RROLL, *48— MAURY QUINN, '37, and MATT DUGGAN, '52, are holdovers — and for ver\- good reason. Tlic officers for 1960-61, elected at the same meeting and installed on 
•U-N.D.
 Night, are —President—JACK ENDERS, 

•'53 
; 1st Vice-President — .MATT DUGGAN; 2nd Vice-President — DON SEIFERT; Treasurer ­TOM KELLY, *49; Secretary—DON MAHONEY, *50. DON SEIFERT had barely taken office when we learned that we would lose him In August when he and Martha Jo (Si. Mar>"'s, '49) move to Kansas City as a representative for Buffalo Forge. 

K.
 C. Club take Note!! Perennial Retreat Chairman MAURY QUINN reported that our annual retreat conducted at Si. Columban's Retreat House at Derby, N.Y., the weekend of April 1-3 had ihe largest attendance to date. Forty N.D. men and their friends benefited .-skfrom this silent retreat held annually on Passion vSunday weekend. Universal Notre Dame Night at the Hotel La­fayette on April 21, chairmanoed by TONY BRICK, '37, u-as one of the finest we have ever had. Toaslmaster was GEORGE FERRICK, '41. ED "MOOSE" KR.-\USE, director of athletics at the University, was the principal speaker and proved to ever>'onc present that his touch is as light and bright as ever. BOB DO\'^, assistant coach of the Buffalo Bills in the new American Football League, added some lively reminiscences. Our hon­ored guest was DAN DONO\^VN, '08, of North Tonawanda, the oldest alumnus in the Buffalo area. ^ Tlte highlight of the ex'ening was the presenta­tion of the "Man of the Year" Au-ard to former 


president JACK LaVIGNE, '49; a well deserxed honor long overdue. 
BILL L^WVLESS, '44, emerged rictorious last November in his bid for election as a Justice of the New York Supreme Court in the Eighth Judicial District and became one of the youngest men ever to attain that high honor. He is one of the few Democrats e\xT to win the post in this overwhelm­ingly Republican district. 
Congressman BILL MILLER, *35, who has represented New York's 40th District in Congress 
,''&for the past 10 years w-as honored recently in being selected chairman of the Republican Con­gressional Campaign Committee. 
President JACK ENDERS and ihe Club Direc­tors embarked on an ambitious program of events for the coming year. We led off with Notre Dame Night at Buffalo Raceway on June 14th. JIM DUNNIGAN, '34, President of the Buffalo Trot­ting Association, again gave Chairman DON J.\­COBI, '35. and his committee his generous sup­port for the success of this increasingly popular 
r'^annual event. It was hoped that "MOOSE" PIKRAUS E could return to Buffalo for the "Notre Dame Pace." 
Final touches were put to the plans for the Stag OuUng scliedulcd for June 28th. GUS PFEIL, '35, and GARY WEBSTER, '54, Co-cliairmen, an­nounced that Coacli JOE KUHARICH would be our honored guest at the Notre Dame Golf Tour­nament on July 28lh at the Lancaster Country .Club. Arrangements were made for a motorized 
<»< 
unit to get the "nlnc-liolers" around in something less than two and a half hours. We'll give you the details on this affair in the next issue. 
Outgoing Club President HANK BALLING, '52, is heading the committee to revbe and up-date our directory of members. When published the ne^%- directory should be an aid to the new gradu­ates as well as to present area alumni. NLVURY QUINN, who refuses lo say "no" to anything that may benefit the University or its local alumni Club, has commenced work as chairman of a com­mittee drafting a new constitution for the Club and has enlisted tlic assistance oE some oE the legal talent in the membership. 
Plans are , materializing for the N.D. .Alumni Club of Buffalo football excursion to Philadelphia for ihe N.D.-Na\y game on October 29th. 
Unless you happen to be a hockey fan, you can't find NEUNLVN EVf\NS, '50, manager of Whilmer-Jackson's southern Ontario region. 
—DON MAHONEY, '50, Secy. 

Calumet Region 
The Noire Dame dub of the Calumet Region honored JA.MES H- McSH.\NE, Hammond busi­nessman, as its Man of the Year. The a^^'ard fea­tured area observance of Universal Notre Dame night at a dinner at Phil Smidt's restaurant in Whiting. REV. PAUL E. BEICHNER, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate Scliool at Notre I>ame, was principal speaker, and Club President WILLIAM 
J. O'CONNOR, presided. 
The a\%'ard lo McShanc recognized "his outstand­ing example as a Catholic layman and as a civic leader, his selfless devotion to the welfare of the community and his loyalty to the University where­by he embodies and upholds the traditional ideals «f Notre Dame." 
BEN D.VNKO, Whiting attorney, was elected president of the Notre Dame club to succeed O'CONNOR who has held the office two years. Other new oflicers arc D.VVID OGREN of Ham­mond, vice president; ROBERT WELCH of Gary, treasurer; and LAWRENCE GALLAGHER of Highland, secretarw 
—ED BRENNAN, AUSTIN BOYLE 

Canton 
REV. J.\.MES DOLL, C.S.C., a biologist at Notre Dame's Lobund germfree laboratories, was the guest and principal speaker at the Universal .Votrc Dame Night meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Canton, O., on April 24. Filmed football liighlights of 1959 ^ve^e also featured. JAMES WEBER made the arrangements. 

Cedar Rapkk 
GEORGE BENNING, '49, has been elected u the new president of the Notre Dame Club of Cedar Rapids. 
St. Matthews Church and Bishops Cafeteria were ihc sites of the 1960 observance of our ^"n^R^ Family Communion and Breakfast, ^fore than €0 people heard HERB SCHIMBERG, '30, speak on "Notre Dame Yesterday and Today." 
—JOSEPH C. GREEN, '51 


Central Illinois 
In June the Notre Dame Club of Central lUinms held a dinner and an election of officers in Spring­field, 111. Elected were TOM HAMILTON, JR., president; DR. JERRY RIORDAN, vice-president; 
A. ROBERT GILDNER, treasurer; and LEO DONDANVILLE, secretary. 
Relatively inactive lately, the Club is planning a football trip as an effective way of rekindling interest. Arrangements have been made for a trip to the Califomia-Nolre Dame game on September 24. 

Central New Jersey 
Universal Notre Dame was held Saturday, 2lfay 7th at the Park Hotel, Plainficld, New Jersey-D.ANIEL GRACE of Scotch Plains, Class of 1951, was honored at this afi'air as the "Man of the Year" in the Central Jersey area. Dan, who is the father of three girls, is an Engineer at Standard Oil Company in Linden, a past president and pres­ent Chairman of the board of the Central New Jersey Club. Dan is very active in contrattmity work in his parish. 
Featured speaker of the evening was JAMES H­SHIELDS, Vice-President of the Notr« Dame Na­tional Alumni Association and partner in the in­vestment firm of Gregory and Sons. His address-dealt with Notre Dame and its future. 
Plans for the balance of I960 included a **Clas& of '60 Night" with the ne^v graduates, a picnic this summer, a student send-off in September, and a Navy game trip lo Philadelphia in October. 
Many club members made plans to attend thdr reunions in June. —WILLL\M ^L RICHARDSON, Secy. 

Central New York 
The first e\'cnt of the new Club year was the-Annual Communion Breakfast, held in December, 1959, at the Dnimlin's Country Clid>, under the 
DETROIT—Universal Notre Dame Night is again apothcoazcd by tlie 1960 oliaeiTaiice ol the Notre Dame Club of Detroit in the {dash Latin Quarter. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 31 
Chainnanship of FRED DELANEY, JR. The 
Mass was held at Most Holy Rosar>' Church, and 
the celrfirant ivas the REV. ROBERT F. GRE­
"WEN, Pnncipal of Le Moj-ne College, SjTacusc, 
Nc\v York. Fatlicr Grcwcn also gave a thought­
pro\-oking talk at the Breakfast after the Mass. 
The Central New York Alumni Association held 
its Annual Universal Notre Dame Dinner Dance at 
the Onondaga Hotel on April 30, 1960 and the 
afTair v,-^s a great success, under the Chairmanslitp 
of J. GARVEY JONES. About 50 couples attended 
and also Ibtened to an inspiring address by Pro­
fessor James Dincolo, Head of the accounting 
<lepartment of the College of Commerce. 
LEO D. KELLY was given the Award for the 
•"Man of the Year,*' and received congratulatory' telegrams from CARDINAL O'HARA and Gover­nor Rockefeller. The Award and congratulations arc well deserved since Leo Kellcy is the founder of the Central New York Club, and has been a driving force in the Club for over 25 years. 
The Club held its Annual Family Picnic July 
10, 1960 at Green Lakes, and under the able chair­
manship of Mr. and Mrs. TOM STUBLER a good 
time was had by all. About 30 couples with an 
infinite number of cltildren attended and engaged 
in the games and contests. 
Plans arc now being made for the Student Scnd-
Olf to be held Tuesday, September 13, I9G0 at 
Belle\"ue Countrv' Club and the Annual Smoker 
sometime in October, at which two tickets will be 
given away to the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game-
On Tlmrsday, July 14, 1960 about 20 couples attended a cKnner at the Bcllc\-uc Country- Club in honor of Mr. and Mrs. J. GARVEY JONES 
•who are leaving SjTacuse for Cleveland. Peg and Gar\'c>' were given a Scroll from the University in recognition of the outstanding work they have done in the local Club for the past se\*cral years. 
—JOHN R. VARNEY, Secy. 




Chicago 
On Monday, April 25, at the Sheraton Towers, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its biggest «vcnt of the year—Universal Notre Dame Night. FRANK FOLSOM, chairman of the executive committee of Radio Corporation of America, Vati­can delegate to the U.N. Atomic Energy* Commis­sion, and winner of the 1959 Laetarc Medal, was the principal speaker. Archbbhop 'NMLLLVM D. O'BRIEN and REV. ED\VARD A. KELLER, CS.C , were special guests, and DON McNEILL, of Breakfast Club fame, 'was toastmastcr. Also present was N.D. swimming coadi DENNIS STARK. 
Hallicrafters Corp. ^*•as well represented, \vith ROBERT G.ALVIN named Notre Dame Man of the Year and RAY DURST given a plaque for his past service on the Alumni Board and as a vice-president of the national .-Mumni /\ssn. Ray is now Foundation ctiairman for the Chicago area. 
Proceeds from the appearance of the University Theater in "Tiger at the Gate" were applied by the Women's .Auxiliarv* to the Scholarship Fund. Thirteen Chicagoans look part in the N.D. Euro­pean Pilgrimage in the spring. TOM BROGi\N announced a very successful membership drive. 
Introduced on U.N.D. Night were the 1960-61 officers. ROGER KILEY succeeded R.-\Y DRY­MALSKI as honorary- president; GEORGE MEN­ARD succeeded PHILIP FACCENDA as president; JOSEPH PAGLIARI, 1st vice-president; NOR­MAN BARRY, 2nd \ice-president; ART CON­RAD, secretar>*; and JIM DOYLE continuing as treasurer. New directors include TERRY BREN­NAN, CHARLES FALKENBERG, JR., FRED­ERICK P. GORE. T. CLIFFORD NOON.\N, FRANK E. O'DOWTD, WILLLA.M D. REYNOLDS, and JOSEPH B. Z\VERS. 
P.\UL FULLMER and BILL REYNOLDS were en-chairmen of the 1960 Golf Tournament and Sports Night Dinner, held .August 8 at the Elm­hurst Country- Club. FATHER JOYCE, JOE KU­HARICH and many local sports celebrities. Radio-TV personality Wally Phillips was master of cere­monies at the smorgasbord and countless golf and door prizes were distributed. 


Cincinnati 
The three main gatherings of the Cincinnati Alumni in the last quarter were as follows: 
A Februarj- dinner meeting at the ^fcMillan ilanor Restaurant at which JOHN CRONIN showed tlic movie "Football Highlights of 1959." AVe had an excellent attendance spurred on, no doubt, by the free cocktail hour that preceded the meeting. 
The April meeting was held at the Bavarian Brewery and was very well attended. At the meet­ing it was annoimced that the Universal Notre 

BALTIMORE—Judge J, Gilbert (second from left) receives scroll naming him "Man ofi the Year^* from Charles M. Norton, retiring president of the N. D. Club of Baltimore. Others are Frank J. Murphy (left), incoming president, and Judge Prcndergast's son John. 
Dame night observance would be held May I4th as a dinner dance at the Cincinnati Club and that ANDY ROHAX would be chairman, and that there uould be a Notre Dame Golf Day this sum­mer witli PAUL KELLEY as cliairman. 
Tlie third event and the highlight of the spring, as far as our club is concerned, yvas Universal Notre Dame Night. We had a record turn out of 110 and the whole evening was a tremendous suc­cess. JOHN FE/VD received the "Man of the Year" award for his long serx-icc in behalf of the club. 
Tliere were three other events left on calendar for the summer. Election of new officers in June; a Golf Day in July; and the Incoming Freshman picnic in late August or early September. Elected in June for the coming year were: BERTRAND 
A. SCHLOE.MER, '38, president; J. B.\RRY SAV­AGE, '5+, vice-president; JOHN R. LaBAR, '53, secretary; and CHxVRLES J. LINL\, *58, treasurer. 
—BARRY SAVAGE 


Cleveland 
Tlie Rocknc Communion Breakfast was held April 3rd this year in the Statler Hotel with a turnout of over 200 club members. This affair whicli has attained national recognition was chatr­mancd by JIM COLLER.AN with ADAM WALSH, one of the seven mules, as guest speaker. Special guests were HARRY STUHLDREHER and DON MILLER who represented the four horsemen in their duel with ADA.M WALSH. Highlight of die breakfast was the annual Man of the Year presen­tation to JOHN CHAPLA by JOHN J. REIDY, winner of the 1938 man of the year award. PAT C/VNXY was presented with a plaque for outstand­ing services as past national alumni president by a representative of the Notre Dame Alumni /\sso­ciation. 
The annual election of officers and business meeting was held May 2nd, at Ruhr's Restaurant. President, PAUL LILLIS, presented a check in the amount of §1,300.00 to CLAYTON LEROUX, chairman of the Cleveland Scholarship fund. Tlie presentation of this check to the scholarship fund, completed tlic second $10,000 Scltolarship fund whicli uas set up many years ago to aid students from the Cleveland area in meeting financial obli­gations while attending the University. Clayton Lcroux reported that to his knowledge Cleveland ^^-as the only city to have progressed so far in the creation and avrarding of scliolarship grants to worthy students. A committee was established to study the enlargement and continuation of the program. TTie election of officers for the year 1960 are as follows: LEO J. BURBY, president; 
ROBERT E. DOWD. vice-pres.; WILLIAM P. 
SKELLY, secretary; and JOHN J. REIDY, JR., 
treasurer. 
FR/\NK GAUL, chairman, announced that on June 20, the Cleveland Club was partaking in a fxuisc of Lake Eric abroad the luxur>* vessel, Aquarama; assisting the event was GEORGE ^ BL.\TT as co-cliairman. ^ P 
The Club's highlight event of the summer uas held July 21 when the annual golf outing was again held at the Elvria Countrv* Club. JOE SCHREINER and BOB BOUHALL were co-chairmen of this event whicli as in past years was again an outstanding success from both a social and financial point of v*icw. JOHN CHAPL.\ and JERRY MCGRJVTH were again in charge of the golf Outing raffle, the proceeds of whicli went to the scliolarship fund. 
Tlic husband and wife retreat held at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Retreat House on July 29th presented an opportunity for 30 marrici^^. couples from Cleveland to partake in a weekend^* of quiet meditation amidst the reverend atmosphere of the Notre Dame Campus. GEORGE KERVER and CHARLES MOONEY, JR., were co-chainnen of the retreat. 
The 1960 President, LEO BURBY, just before the deadline of this report announced a tentative schedule of the coming events during 1960, as follows: 
Scliolarship Raffle Kick Off ^fecting to be held in tim middle of September featuring the Dads of the incoming freshmen as special guests of the Club. The prize for this year's raffle shall be ai^ ^ all-expcnse-paid trip to Miami, Florida for the ^ Notre Dame-Miami football game on Saturday, November 12th. 
Friday night, December 23rd, the annual Christ­mas Dance will be held at the Statler Hotel. 
The President requests all members of the Club to pay their dues as soon as possible to assure the Club of the nccessar>' funds to continue its full schedule of ex'ents during the coming year. 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Corresponding Sec>-. 


Columbus 

.\t our Maxell 1960 meeting, the election of offi­cers u-as held. A slate of at least two candidates was presented. Newly elected officers arc: presi­dent, J. R. (BOB) ECHENRODE, '48; vice-president, PAT a\N*TWELL, '52; MIKE a\N*T­WELL, '58, treasurer; and DICK KASBERG, '48, secretary-. CHARLES \VEILBACHER, '40, was­
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
Ihc newly elected member to the Board of Gov-. 
crnors. 
On Saturday, April 23, our Universal Notre Dame Night get-together \v-as held at the Desert Inn, with GUIDO ALEXANDER, '44, hosting. AVe were 82 in nmnber and after a cocktail party We were treated to a steak dinner. 
Follou-ing dinner, outgoing President JOE HUGHES turned the meeting over to M. C. JOHN IGOE, '28. The first business conducted %\'as a drawing for a fine portable T.V. set and it was 
I won by ART ULRICH, *48. The newly elected officers were introduced. The annual Notre Dame *'Man of the Year" plaque was presented to much deserving, LOUIS C. (BUD) MURPHY, '33. All present showed their appro\'al of this excellent choice. Several members of Bud's family were present to sec this honor bestowed on their father. 
ALEX GLOCKNER, '27, and his wife were in attendance and the appointment of their son Mike to the U.S. Na\al Academy was announced. We wish ^[ikc the best of all things and shared with his folks, the honor we know tlie>' feci. 
I Fx\THER ST.\NLEY PARRY, C.S.C., was our guest speaker with a subject explaining the con­flicts of living a practical life without liWng with Christ. 
Mrs. Leo Kletzly won the floral centerpiece from the speaker's table. 
A good number of new faces were present and also welcomed were several loo infrequently seen members and their wives. In all, wc had contact x^'ith nearly 20 new "Buckc>-es" and wc hope to sec them at our up-coming functions. 
Last evening, May 3, a meeting of the board and new officers was held at the Columbus Ath­letic Club. A program of events for the coming 
' year was laid out, and wc arc planning at least one function a month starting in September, I960 through April, 1961. A survey letter is in tlic development stage and will soon be sent out to our members. The plans will be explained and chairman for each event will be appointed and ivill work closely with PAT TONTI, '51, who was appointed general program chairman. 
In addition to an outing and golfing party in early September, the plans include a football spe­cial to the Michigan State game and a husband and wife dinner in October; a Notre Dame-Miami Drawing in November; Communion Breakfast and Christmas dance in December; a dinner meeting in Februar>" a stag election meeting in March; and Universal Notre Dame Night in April. Details will be furnished later to the membership. 
—DICK K.VSBERG, '48, Sec>-. 


Connecticuf Valley 
At a Business ^fccting held on Monday night, April 18, 1960, the following ofiicers of the Con­necticut Valley Alumni Association were elected for the 1960-1961 vcar: President, JAMES F. FL.\HERTY, JR., '53; \nce-President, /\NDRE\V 
J. KATA, '31; Secretar%-, ROGER C. TREM­
* BL.\Y, '55; and Treasurer, AHLLLVM J. WAELD­W NER, JR., '43. 
The Sccrctar>- and Treasurer succeeded them­selves and the former President and Vice-President were LOUIS A. BERGERON, '52, and LEONARD 
F. KILLVN, '52, respectively. Elected to the Board of Governors that same evening were: TIMOTHY J. MURPHY, 3 >xaR; JOHN F. ROBINSO.V, 2 vears (Chairman); and FRx\NK T. AHE.ARN, 1 year. The four officers and the past president comprise the remaining 
Board members. On Tuesday evening, April 26, 1960, our annual 
M Universal Notre Dame Night banquet was Iield 
^ at the Sun Valley .Acres in Meriden, Connecticut. This year's affair was a Connecticut-wide endeavor, sponsored by three state Alumni .•Vssociations: Fairfield County, New Haven and Connecticut Valley. Wc were fortunate to have as our main speaker ED "MOOSE" KR/\USE, director of athletics at Notre Dame. 107 Alumni, wives and guests were in attendance. 
One of the features of the banquet was the presentation of the Notre Dame "Man of- the 
p. Year" award bv the Connecticut Vallcv Alumni 
P /Association to JOHN P. (CLIPPER) SMITH, '29, former AIl-/\mcrican guard and football captain at Notre Dame. John had previously been hon­ored by the Connecticut Sportwritcrs Alliance with the presentation of a Gold Key, commemo­rating a man who has made conspicuous contribu­tions to sports in the state of Connecticut. 
Tlie next scliedulcd event for our Alumni group ^ is tlie *'Freshman Dinner'! in September. How-
BOSTON—^Monsignor Cornelius Donovan, '09, received the Man-of-thc-Ycar award at 
U.N.D. Night ceremonies of the Boston Club. From left: William Daccy, '49, president of 
the Club; Charles Patterson, '44, selection chairman; Msgr, Donovan, and Prof. James Dincolo, who represented the University. 
ever, an informal gathering during the summer was anticipated. —ROGER C. TRE.MBLAY, Seo*. 
Dallas 
JACK SCHROETER, past president, was the chairman of a gala dinner-dance-swimming party, held on July 14, 1959, at the Great Southwest Club, mid-way between Dallas and Fort Worth. Mucti fun was had by all who attended. AVe had our Christmas Dance at the Statlcr Hilton Hotel on December 26. Co-Chairman HAL TEHAN and SAM \VING did a wonderful jch m arrang­ing for and decorating for the dance. Approxi­mately 225 couples participated in this formal afl"air. Tlie first of three Communion Breakfasts was held in the month of October, the second in February, and the last one was held in April. The April Communion Breakfast had as its speaker Mr. WA\'NE WOODRUFF of Dallas, who talked on "A Non-Catholic's Attitudes Toward a Possible Election of a Catholic President." Mr. Woodruff's talk was one of the high-liglits of the year and it is our only wish that he could talk to ever>' Notre Dame Club in the counlr>*. 
Mso in February', there was a Stag Party held at the Italian \'inagc Restaurant, during which the films of the Notre Dame-Iowa Football Game were shown. 
Ho^vever, the past year for the Notre Dame Dallas Club has also had its sorrows as well as its fun. On Januarv 5, one of our members, JULIUS \^LEBA, died here in Dallas at the age of 24 years. Julius could speak four foreign languages fluently. To show you the great cour­age of this boy, he wrote his thesis for his Mas­ter's Degree from Southern Methodist University while undergoing great pain. He completed his thesis and received his Master's Degree only a few days before he passed on. We of the Notre Dame Club here in Dallas were axtremely fond of Julius, to say the least, and wc arc very proud of him and the great fight he put up during his rather short lifetime. He was, in ever>- sense of the word, a true Notre Dame man, and he re­flected credit and honor upon his school. 
On April 25, 1960, we celebrated Universal Notre Dame .Niglit with FATHER HESBURGH as our honored guest and speaker. Father Hcs­burgh talked to us about the new School Librarv* and the ever-ascending rank of Notre Dame in the academic world. 
JAKE REICHENSTEIN was chosen as "Noire Dame Man of the Year" and was introduced by Lank Smith. JACK SCHROETER, retiring president, made a few departing remarks and JIM SWIFT introduced Father Hesburgh. 
The new Notre Dame Club officers for the year 1960-1961 were announced and arc as follows: President, JOHN BROG^VN; First Vice-President, MARTY O'CONNOR; Second Vice-President, VICK CLESI, JR.; Secretary, JOHN TOLLE; and Treasurer, DICK LaJOIE. 
The latest events were a smoker on May 25 at the Ramada Inn Motel and the annual summer party July 30 at Spring Valley Country Club. 
—MARTY O'CONNOR, Retiring Secy. 


Doyfon 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\*ed in 
Dayton on May 9 with REV. THOMAS J. 
O'DONNELL, C.S.C., as guest speaker. 
The officers of the Dayton Club for 1960-61 
arc: President, GEO. A. PFLAUM, JR., '54; 
Vice-Pres., CHARLES BOHN, '39; Secretary. JLM 
BRITT, '53; and Treasurer, xXNDREW A\L\S, 
JR., '30. 
—GEO. A. PFLAUM, JR., Retiring Secy. 


Dearborn 
The iVnnual St. Patrick's Day Dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Dearborn was held Tues­day, March 15, at Kelly's, featuring corned beef and cabbage and a discussion of "Fighting Irish" football prospects. R.-VY DcFAUW was in charge. On April 20 the Club took part in U.N.D. Night in Detroit. 
Officers for 1960-6! are: EMORY D^UCOSKE, president; JOE BYRNE, vice-president; ED SN*YDER, secretar>-.trcasurer; JERRY KELLY, ED SNYDER and LEE LaROQUE, directors. President Dakoske was chairman of the Com­munion Breakfast on Sunday, May 23, following Mass at St. Bemadette's Church, with REV. P.AUL SaVNLON, O.P., as guest speaker. 
After a meeting on June 3 at the home of JERRY G.ASS the Club held a Family Picnic at Mcrriman Hollow on Sunday, June 19, featuring baseball, races, prizes and refreshments. 
On July 8 there was a meeting at the home of DICK KING, and on July 23 the annual Sum­mer Dance was held at "Wayne Gardens" under management of Joann Dakoske, Rosemary King and Pat Sarb. 
There will be a report of the Golf Outing, etc., in the next issue. 

Decatur 
The Decatur Club is proud to haw another of its family in Holv Orders. REV. \TrALIS JACK­SON, O.F.^L, son of ANTHON'Y JACKSON, '23, of Assumption, III., was ordained on June 24 and said his First Solemn ^lass in Asstunption on June 26. 
Our Golf Stag was held on July 20 at the Decatur Country Club. Wc wish a quick recovery to SY RvVPIER, re­cuperating from an attack in April. 

Delaware 
The Notre Dame Club of DeIa^v•are held a Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet on IXon­day, April 25, at the Du Pont Country Club, \Vilmington. Present were Bishop Hyle, Governor Boggs, Mayor Lamott, and distinguished clergy including: Father L>-nn, rector of Salesianum School; Father Diny, headmaster of Archmcrc Academy; MSGR. ENRIGHT, Club chaplain; and BROTHER AUGUST, C.S.C., representing AVH­mington's nc^v St. Edmund's High School. 
Representing the University yvas EDAVARD W. KR.AUSE, director of athletics. President J. J. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September^ 1960 33 
COLENL\X introduced the toastmastcr, racing broadcaster and sports personality BRYAN FIELD. The program included the announce­ment of the Xotrc Dame Man of the Year. 



Denver 
Tlic Denver Notre Dame Club held its annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the re­cenllv opened Denver-Hilton Hotel. on April 21, 1960. Under the chairmanship of LEON ARCHER and BOB ZEIS, more tlian 100 alumni and friends gathered to pav tribute to the school of Our Lady. 
We. in the Mile High City, were honored to have FATHER THOM/VS J. O'DONNELL, Notre Dame Foundation liaison officer, as our guest speaker. Accompanying Father O^Donnell ^-as DICK BOWES, regional foundation director. Father O'Donncll outlined the goals of the Uni­versity as related to the Foundation and in par­ticular, the erection of a new- librarx-. Following Father O'Donnell's inspiring talk, the annual Denver Notre Dame Club scliolarship award was presented to TERRY PIKE. JIM SHEEH.\N, cliairman of the 19G0 scliolarship committee, in­troduced Terr>- and Father O'Donnell presented the award. Terr>* was graduated from Centennial High School in Pueblo, Colorado, in June. 
Tlie newly elected officers for 1960-61 were in­stalled and introduced to the alumni and friends. President — a\R L EIBERGER; Vice-President — GERRY SMITH; Sccretarv-— RAY TRITZ; and Treasurer—BOB ZEIS. Directors include LEON ARCHER, ARTHUR GREGORY, JAMES HAN­LON, DR. EDWARD DELAHANTY and MI­CHAEL HALLIG.VN. Tlianks to outgoing Prexv-LEON ARCHER for his fine and able work last year. 
Tlie annual Christmas Dance was held at Lake­wood Countr>- Club on December 28, 1959. .-Vp­proximatcly 100 alumni, students and guests at­tended the dance. JIM COUGHLIN was cliair­man for this event. 

Several events have been planned for the year, including the annual sports luncheon and the summer picnic. In the next few montlis we are looking forward to organizing a ^Vomen's Aux-Illarv-, a Great Books discussion Club, golf outings, etc. An invitation Is extended to out-of-town mem­bers stopping in Denver to join us at the Old Na\'arrc restaurant on the first Wednesday of any month for our monlhlv noon luncheon. 
—RAY TRITZ, Sco'. 
Des Moines 

The Notre Dame Alumni Club assisted the Knights of Columbus in making preparations and arrangements for the appearance of ROBERT O'BRIEN and the Notre Dame Band in Des Mloines on x\pril 26. 
On April 30, as a traditional sequel to the Drake Relays, Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated at the Hotel Fort Des Moines. REV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN was a guest from the campus and principal speaker. HAROLD P. KLEIN, vice-president of the lowa-Dcs Moines National Bank, was named Notre Dame Man of the Year. Presi­dent THOMAS J. NOLAN, JR., was chairman. 
Detroit 
TIic administration of DON HERRON came lo a close on April 1, 1960. Officers of the N.D. Club of Detroit for 1960-61 arc: LOU CONROY, presi­dent; WILLIAM C. RONEY, JR., 1st vice-presi­dent; JERRY ASHLEY, 2nd vice-president; WIL­LIAM F. ANHUT, treasurer; and THOM.\S J. \TRBIEST, treasurer. New directors include LOU BOSCO, JOE DIMOND, JL\I MOTSCHALL and LEE MOORMAN. 
JOHN ANHUT was chairman of the annual Notre Dame Dinner, held on April 6 at the Bots-ford Inn, featuring the football highlights of 1959 and a business meeting witli nomination of direc­tors, a review of the past year and discussion of the coming Club season. 
On .\pril 20, 1960, the 37th annual Universal Notre Dame Night was observed In Detroit at the Latin Quarter with the theme *'Thc Noire Dame Family." Honored guest was REV. JOHN 
J. CAVAN.AUGH, former president of the Uni­versity and director of the Notre Dame Founda­tion. Principal speaker was Dr. Carl Bycrs, liu­morist-Iecturer, through the courtesy of General Motors. Tlie evening featured tlie presentation of the Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year award, a salute to the outgoing officers and the introduction of the new executive board. 
The Annual Golf Stag Party was held June 12 at Oakland Hills Country Club, featuring golf, 
34 Notre Dame AlumnuSj September, 1960 
CALUMET REGION—^Apparently unaware of menacing foliage in a mural behind them are principals of Calumet's N. D. Night at fabled Phil Smidt's restaurant: (from left) Benedict R. Danko, new president of the Club; Father Paul E. Beichnerj dean of the Graduate School; and William J. O'Connor, retiring president. 
dinner, prizes and guests from tlic University, REV. JEROME J. WILSON, C.S.C., vice-presi­dent for business affairs, and Mr. EDWARD KRAUSE, athletic director. The committee con­sisted of JOE &\REY, TOM SHEEHAN, E. J. GARGARO and JOHN PANELLI. 
Eastern Illinois 
Tlie Eastern Illinois Notre Dame Club met on 

Monday evening, April 25, I960, at Connors Drive 
In Restaurant at 6:30 P.M. This was the annual 
Universal Notre Dame Night meeting held by 
the organization. Thirty-two alumni, wives and 
guests were present. 
New officers of tlic club elected were: EDWARD 

LAYDEN of Hoopeston, president; TOM BOTT 
of Damillc, vice-president; FRANK McGOUGH 
of Danville, treasurer; and RALPH DALTON of 
Danville, secrelar>-. Tlie REV. C. BOURKE .MOT­
SETT u-as re-appointed cliaplain of the Club. 
Plans were made for a train trip to the Noire Dame-Northwestern football game at Evanston on October 22, 1960. LESLIE HAHNE, JR., ROB­ERT MORRIS and JOHN BELTON were ap­pointed on tlic committee lo make arrangements for the tickets, train and food details for the day. 
DONALD OTOOLE, president of the Pullman Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Illinois, gave a marvelous talk about the real essence of Notre Dame men and a very descriptive talk of things that liad happened on the campus for a good many years. He also presented the Notre Dame Man of the Year Scroll to the REV. C. BOURKE MOTSETT. 
Tlie mecling started ofT with a social hour and a marvelous fried clilcken dinner was enjoyed b>' all. The treasurer and sccretar>*'s reports were read and approved while the dinner •ivas being scr\'ed. 
—RALPH J. DALTON, '31, Sco*. 

Ecuador 
In May the Notre Dame Club of Ecuador had a stag meeting at the JOHN MOELLER home. Tlic following members of the Alumni attended: JOSE ANDR.ADE, JAIME PINTO, FRANCISCO PINTO, TEMISTOCLES TERAN, OSWALDO ARROYO, ALBERTO PEREZ, ANTONIO MOR­TENSEN, GALO SERRANO, and GERMAN GRIJALVA — actually he used his faiher^s name, Alfonso, during his stay at Notre Dame, as '*Ger­man'* without the accent would mean German In English — and the war was still on at that time! 
RANHRO S.\.MANIEGO was not able to attend but sent a wire from his farm excusing himself. ALEJANDRO VILLAVICENCIO also had to leave for his farm the same day as his cattle was quite sick due t«- the volcanic ash rain. LUIS GALVE S too could not come because of illness in his family. ERNESTO ITURRALDE was also unable to attend. 
The meeting began at 7:00 P.M. and lasted until 2:00 A.M. A perfectly cordial and friendly atmosphere prevailed throughout the meeting and all seemed glad to be together after such a long time. The newest members of the Alumni, ALBERTO PEREZ and GALO SERRANO, seem­
ed a bit shy at first but as the meeting progressed 
tliey felt quite at home. 
The main topics of conversation were the old 

times at Notre Dame and politics, of course. Presi­
dential elections are coming up and I can only M 
say that the three candidates are well represented " 
in our group. They arc Dr. Jose M. Velasco 
Ibarra, Mr. Galo Plaza, who had been elected 
for the Presidency before; and Dr. Gonzalo Cor­
dero, the candidate of the Conservative and Social 
Christian parties and the strongest of all among 
the Alumni. 
All the members seemed to enjoy the Victory ^^a^ch of Notre Dame*s Alumni. The recording I have is by Kay Kaiser and is not the best arrangement in existence. FR.ANCISCO PINTO took pity on me and offered to let me record his record. 
Tliey all agreed with my suggestions. We will ^ hold a meeting evcr\* three or lour months at " the "Quito Tenis y Golf Club," sometimes slag and sometimes with wives. After the meeting there all of us could continue it at one of the member's. Tills new procedure will obviate the heavy expense incurred by the member whose turn is to inWte all the members and their wives for dinner. In fact, until now- cver>'onc has tried to compete with the others by ofTering real banquets whlcli have become extravagantly expensive. 
Tcmistoclcs Teran, the two brothers Pinto, Ger­man Grijal\"a and I agreed that we should get together not only cver>* three or four montlis, but cverv* two months at the most even though wc ^ might not have a good attendance. V 
Also, wc will not collect any more monthly quotas and special ones will be established in tlie e\'ent of unusual needs, such as visitors from Notre Dame, etc-I did not feel I should request contributions for the /UumnI, as the majority of the members are young professionals just starting their careers, and perhaps I would have discour­aged them from attending future meetings. 
Even though ^VNTONIO MORTENSEN had been nominated as secretary, I will handle the secretariat also. I will therefore call all members to the next meeting and will try to get in toucli with the out-of-iowners, ALBERTO ENRIQUEZ M of Ibarra, and JAIME CARRASCO of Cuenca, ^ etc. 
—JOHN J. MOELLER, Pres. 

Elkhart 
Notre Dame alumni of Elkhart were again in­vited to observe Universal Notre Dame Night in a joint meeting with the N.D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley on May 2 at the Morris Inn on the .Notre Dame campus. 


El Paso ' 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of El Paso observed Universal Communion Sunday, December 6, 1959. We attended Mass at St. Pius X Parish in El Paso. FATHER IRVING KLISTER, '39, of that parish officiated at this service. After Mass we enjoyed breakfast at Ramada Inn East. Father Burke, director of Texas Western College Newman^ 
Club gave tilt: address. Those m attendance ^vere: Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD T . JENiNINGS, '53; Mr. and Mrs. JIM FORD, '49; GORMAN BROCK. M9; DR. ED ETTL, M9j Mr. and Mrs. JAMES S. RYAN, JR., '53; FATHER IRVING KLISTER, *39; FATHER BURKE and BROTHER 
C. AMEDY LONG. Father KlJstcr is the editor of the Southwest Jlcgistcr, our diocesan newspaper, Tlie Club has conducted monthly business-social gatherings. Various small fund raising inno\-ations 
^ enabled us to send $100.00 for Christmas to the ]^[ar>'knoU Missions in Tanganyika. This was in honor of an El Paso girl who is now a Mar>-knoll missionary' in Tanganyika. She is Sister William Joseph. 
The EI Paso Club was honored to have FATHER PATRICK MALONEY, chaplain of the Univer­sity Band, as guest speaker at our Universal Notre IDame Night celebration. 
This year's festivities were held on April 22nd J t the new Hilton Inn. For the second time in the history' of the El Paso Club, a "Man of the Year" was named. 
i Selected «-as RICHARD S. SMITH, *37. Pre­viously honored was ROBERT E. 0'Mi\LLEY, M5, who received the ai\-ard in 1955. Club mcm­"bcrs and ihelr guests who attended were FATHER MALONEY, '50; MSGR. H. G. QUINN, Chan­cellor of El Paso; BROTHER AMEDY LONG, PSC, '54; BROTHER R.\LPH, FSC, '62; FATHER ANDREW BURKE; GORMAN BROCK. '49. and Estcllc ^^a.\weII; Mr. and Mrs. NHKE CROWLEY; Mr. and Mrs. JI.M FORD. '49; Mr. and Mrs. ED JENNINGS, '53; FATHER IRVIN KLISTER, '39. and Father Kllster's mother; FRANK KRE­TEK; Mr. and ^rrs. GUS MOMSEN; NASH ^ NAVAR, '53. and Rebcca Patino; Mr. and Mrs. 
# BOB O'.MALLEY, '45; Mr. and Mrs. BILL OTOOLE; -Mr. and Mrs. TRxWIS PETTi'; Mr. and Mn. JIM RYAN, '53; Mr. and M>s. RICH­ARD SMITH, '37; PAUL BROCK and Mar-­Lou Graves; Mr. and Mrs. JIM LUNDY; Mr. and ^^^s. SAM W.VSAFF; and Mr. and Mrs. -RALVH NAVAR. 
Our second annual summer family gct-logetber was held In Silver City, Nciv Mexico, In June. Along with the business, all of the members from EI Paso enjoyed getting away from the high tem­perature and cooling off in the mountains and surroundings of Silver City. 
^ —ED JENNINGS, Sec>-. 

Erie 
On December 6, 1959, the Notre Dame Club of Erie held their Annual Communion Breakfast at the Kalikwa Club. TIic REV. ENNIS A. CONNELLY was guest speaker. Trophies were given to the outstanding high school and grade school football players of the year. Rich ScoIIo of Cathedral Prep was awarded the trophy for the top high school grldder and Donnic Gclirleln of St. Patrick's was awarded the trophy for out­standing play in the grade school league. 
.Attending tlie affair were: FATHER aVRTER; I Atlv. and Mrs. JOSEPH BARBER and Mr. and ' Mrs. LEO BRUGGER; Mr. and -Afrs. ANTHONY 
ZiVMBROSKI; the RICHARD McCORMICKS; the JOHN J. .\rcCORMICKS, Jr.: Mr. and Mrs. BILL GRANX- il'c JOHN YOUNGS; the LAW­RENCE STADLERS; Mr, and Mrs. ROBERT LUKES; Mr. and Mrs. DON BUSECK; Mr. and Mrs. THOM.AS BURICK; JOHN L. PALMISxVNO, and ROBERT MILLER. 
RiVY LEGLER, *57, is presently stationed In Germany wilh the .Army. Ray's parents met him in Rome April 11th and will spend 45 daj-s with Rav seeing the sights of Europe. 
. RICHARD T. DALEY. '53, married the former w Eleanor Spucosky of Tamacqua, Pa, in Septem­ber 1959, Tliey arc presently residing in Chicago. 
III. where Dick is a representative of American Sterilizer. 
The HERB KERNS, '54. are proud parents of a boy, >ratthcw. Tlic ED KERNS, '56, wel­comed a baby girl, ^far^• Karen, In March. Jean and JOHN McCORMICK, *53, have a daughter, Mar>* Theresc, who was born in Nov. Mary Ann and JACK YOUNG have a new daughter. Tlils is their third daughter. Mar>' Agnes and BILL 
L GR/VNT also had a daughter in January-. JOHN PALMIS.ANO Is now in the restaurant business wilh his father. Jack looked forward to his five year reunion in June, The Club extends its deepest s>'mpatliy to the family of JOHN DUCATO. John, one of Notre Dame's greatest supporters, passed away last Oc­tober. Tlie Eric Club welcomed Judy and JOHN , LOCHTEFELD. '55, at the occasion of Universal 
Notre Dome Night, John is an art instructor at Merci'hurst College in Erie. 
FATHER GLE,\N BOAR.\L\NN, CS.C , pre­fect of religion, was the guest speaker at Univer­sal Notre Dame Night, April 18, In his talk, 
•'The Notre Dame Family," Father Boarmann traced the history of Notre Dame and told alumni members of the future plans of the school. 
LEO BRUGGER, '34, received the Notre Dame Man-of-the-Ycar Scroll. Leo has been a tremen­dous asset to our club In our effort to carr>' out our alumni duties. We are certainly proud to have a man of Leo's caliber In our ranks. 
—RICHARD T. McCOR.MICK, '55, Cor. Secy. 


Fairfield County 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Fairfield County were Invited to take part in a joint ob­scrx-ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night with the Connecticut Valley, Naugatuck Valley and New Haven Clubs on .April 26 in Hartford, Conn. 

Flint 
VICTOR E. GEORGE was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Flint in March, succeed­ing ARTHUR T. PARADIS. Vic is general man­ager of Victor L. George, Inc. Other officers named: HiVROLD R. STINE, 1st Wee-president; LAWRENCE C. SAXE, 2nd vice-president; and THEODORE MiVNSOUR, secretary - treasurer. Elected to the board of directors were ROBERT CLEVRY, WALTER NAGEL, GERALD RAN­DALL, and E.MERY SHERWOOD. Activities chairmen were appointed as follows; golf stag. ART PARADIS and DICK GARAB; Communion breakfast, R,\V KELLY; football excursion, WALT NAGEL and ART FAfcXDIS; U.X.D. .Night, TED M.VNYAK and TED JLVNSOUR; familv picnic, JI.M SHERRY and BILL .MINARDO; sdiolarships, ROBERT CLE-VRY and ED KRUPA; membership, L,\RRY S,\XE and BILL .MACKSOOD; and pub­licity, PAUL HUGHES and FRED .M.ANSOUR. 
On May 10 the Flint Club honored ARCHIE 

R. CAMPBELL as N.D. Man of the Year at a Universal Xotrc Dame Night dinner-dance pro­gram at the Flint Golf Club, attended by well over 200. Mr. Campbell, manager of the Flint Elks Club and father of ARCHIE CAMPBELL, JR., *55, was honored for his efforts on behalf of athletics, youth, and the Flint community. On hand to join in the tribute were ED KR^\USE and Biggie Munn, athletic directors of Notre Dame and Michigan State, rcspectivelv. /\lso present was .MSGR. HENRY .M. .M.AVOTTE, pas­tor of St. John Vlanncy Church. R.AY.MOND 
J. KELLY was toaslniaster, and TED M.ANYAK was in charge of the program. 

Fort Lauderdale 
NOTRE DAME CLUBS OF FLORIDA SIXTH ANTCUAL CON*VENTIOX 
Though the Conventioneers didn't gather offi­cially until Friday, festivities really got under \vay several da>-5 earlier when BOB GORE, WILLARD MOSS and FRANK McGINN made a fast trip to Marathon in the Florida Keys to catch our Friday dinner. Absolutely nothing can surpass trout, caught and cleaned with T, L. C. and prepared by the master Iiand of Chef PAUL PFOHL. 
The beautiful Convention Hall, newest addition to the Sea Ranch, was the scene of Mardi Gras night (fun for all and profits to the Notre Dame Foundation). 
Saturday—the day of rest! To start mtfa, everyone u-andcred In for breakfast /airly early. Tlic temptation to sleep In was overruled by sunshine, ocean breezes, a huge breakfast, and — let's face it — who wasn't afraid of missing some­thing? A separate putting tournament for the gals this year tempted most of them to give it a tr>-, and they found it was a delightful way to combine sunbathing and visiting with old friends. Shuffle board and swimming were popular with many, tennis — a fov hardy souls, but favorite of cver>"one ^vas lounging by the pool. The weather all weekend was e.-fceptIonalIy lovely — even for Florida's Gold Coast. 
Tlie banquet, of course, u-as the highlight. BISHOP COLE.\LAN F. CARROLL of Miami w^ presented with a life-stzc portrait In oils as a high point. REV." RICRARD GRIM.M, C.S.C.. was a guest from the University and principal speaker, PHIL O'CONNELL of Palm Beach was toastmaster, and R. H. GORE, JR,, banquet and convention chairman, JOHN L. CALLAN, 21, past president of the Fort Lauderdale Club and presently chairman of the board of directors, u-as selected imanimously as recipient of the coveted Notre Dame Man-of-lhc-Year award. 
Dancing imder the stars turned Into a celebra­tion of three wedding anniversaries — the DIEHLS from Jacksonville, the BILL ALAUS juniors, and the TOM WALTERS. 
Sunday, following Mass, u-as more of the same, 
— the traditional buffet, au'ardlng of prizes, and farewells for another year. Everyone departed irith the usual two questions in mind — where did the time go, and why did we eat so mucli? Oh well, it was wonderful! 
—WILLLVM MAUS, JR. 


Fort Wayne 
Tlie top function held by the Fort Wayne Club occurred on Monday, May 16, when Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated. T%vo outstand­ing happenings of the evening were the talk by 
CHICAGO—^Awards were the order of the evening at Univeisal Notre Dame festivities in the Windy City. Among honored guests were (I. to r.) broadcaster Don McNeill, toast­master and recipient of the Club's first award for decency in entertainment; Robert W. Galvin, '44, Chicago's Man of the Year; Raymond W. Durst, '26; cited for service as a director and officer of the Altunni Assn.; and industrialist'diplomat Frank M. Folsom, chief speaker, who seems to have left his 1939 Lactare Medal at home. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
FATHER THONLVS J. 0*DONNELL and the au-ardtng of the *'Man of the Year*' aw-ard to one of its most dcscn-ing recipients, HENRY J. H.\S­LEY. Chairman of tlie afTaJr was PAUL O. SCHIRMEVER. assisted by JOHN H. LOGAN, toaslmasten JEROME J. 0'DO^\'D represented the Mayor's office in welcoming Father O'DonnclI to Fort \\'aync. 
The annual "Day of Recollection" for the Fort \Va\-nc Club «-as Iicid on April 3 at the Sacred Heart Seminary on the Auburn Road. A good turnout recognized the work of co-Chairmen JIM KRESS and JACK SOSENHEIMER. 
Our club also teamed up with the Orcliard Ridge Country- Club in bringing Messrs. JOE KU­H.\RICH and BILL DADDIO to Fort Wayne for a discussion on football generally, and Notre Dame specifically. Co-chairman for this function was JOHN A. HALEY, representing tlic Notre Dame Club. 
—ROBERT R. LUTHER, Secy. 

Green Bay 
Tlic N.D. Club of Green Bay celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on Tliursday, April 21, at the Beaumont Hotel, Green Bay. Present were alumni, guests, prospective students from Green Bay high scliools and students home for Easter xracation. Speakers were REV. GEORGE C. BERN.-VRD, \-icc-president for student affairs at tlic University, and VINCE LOMBARDI, coach of the Green Bay Packers. 
Guam 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated Informally by Notre Dame men among military and civilian personnel stationed on Guam. 

Hawaii 
At a meeting held in Honolulu on Mardi 10, 1960, tlie follouing officers were elected to scr\'c for the vcar: DOXALD MACADO, president; NEIL VASCOXCELLOS, rfcc-prcsidcnt; KIN MING WONG, secretary; and RAYMOND PET­ROUS, treasurer. 
A Universal Notre Dame NIglit dinner u-as held on Fridav, April 29. Guests of honor were REV. FRANCIS D. BRIDENSTINE, C.S.C., cliaplain and lieut. colonel, U.S. .-Vrmv-, and REV. CHARLES A. KEKUMAXO, chancellor of the Honolulu Diocese, who was the featured speaker. 

Hiawaihaland 
About forty Alumni, their wives and other friends of the Univcrsit\* met for dinner at River­side Countrv' Club in Menominee, Miclitgan. These people were from the cities of Marinette, Menominee, Stephenson, and Escanaba as well as the surrounding tcrrttorv' and matters of interest concerning the University and its program were discussed. T. J. Bcrgan of Escanaba, Micliigan, as president presided and the annual award -was made to attomcx- ROBERT LcMIRE of Escanaba, Micliigan, who has been active in Notre Dame and civic matters for many years. New ofitccrs elected were: DON TROTTIER, president; DR. PHILIP McCANNA, vice-president; HENRY J. LAUERMAN, secrctar>' and treasurer. AMiilc we wish that our membership could be steadily in­creased, especially because of the wide area in­cluded, the competition of larger cities, at least for the present, seems to lure too many of our new graduates away from the Upper Peninsula. AVe, of course, will continue the organization in the interest we have had these many years. 
—HENRY L.AUER^L\N, Seo'. 

Houston 
REV. THEODORE .\L HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of the University, u-as principal speaker at the Houston obserx'ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Petroleum Club on April 23. He was introduced by President LAWRENCE J. KELLEY. 

Indianapolis 
Our Club's 1959-60 year rolled around very fast and smooth, and w*e arc glad to be back as your correspondent until April of 1961. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the LA.C. on April 25th with 250 alumni, their guests, and wives in attendance. DONALD G. HAN­NING, *37, assistant to J. EDGAR HOOVER in Washington, was our excellent principal speaker. Other honored guests were ARCHBISHOP PAUL C SCHULTE, MAYOR BOSWELL, and our own JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38, National .Mumni President. 
After the dinner JOHN J. ELDER, '30, received 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
the *'Man of tlic Ycar^' award from JOHN T. 
ROCAP, '30, who selected the former N.D. foot­
ball star, along with past recipients W^I. F. 
FOX, *20, and DR. THOMAS P. CARNEY, '37. 
JOSEPH McGOWAN, JR., a Cathedral High 
Scliool senior, was announced as the winner of our 
annual $2,000 scliolarship to the university. Joe 
won this over sLv other outstanding local high 
scIiool seniors. 
After Notre Dame Night the retiring president, 
BOB WELCH, '50, announced the new officers. 
Tlic\- are: P.AT FITZGERALD, '52, president; 
BILL ^lOONEY, JR., '57, Veep; BILL Mc­
GOWAN, JR., '57, Secretary; and the re-elected 
treasurer, DICK OUXNS, '42. Tliese men edged 
out BILL SAHM, '51; TOM O'BRIEN, JR., *53; 
and BILL STUHLDREHER, '53, for the top 
three posts. The two newly elected directors to 
serve until 1963 are TO.M BULGER, '39, and 
JOHN ROa\P, '30. Tlicy were elected over 
GE.\E MITCHGER, '35, and D.4\^ FOX, '40. 
Our club owes a debt of gratitude to outgoing 
President AVelch for his very successful year in 
guiding our club and initiating many new ideas. 
Also retiring from an official club office will be 
two directors, HENRY ENGEL, '40, and JACK 
ELDER, '30. To these three men our club sa>-s 
thanks and hopes that tlie present officers and sLc 
directors will be able to carry on their fine 
program. 
Several events of interest since the last ALUM­NUS arc as follows. Tlie club had a luncheon Holy Thursday for the 14 N.D. June graduates from this area. Tliese men were able to meet the alumni and discuss job opportunities. In order to raise money for our Scholarship Fund, the club made over §1,000 in a rafllc of a TV set won by our treasurer, DICK OWENS, fair and square! 
We regret to announce to their many friends throughout the countr>- that JAMES E. CURTIS, '19; LEROY J. KEACH, '08; and ROBERT E. KIRBY, '28, have passed a«-ay. On June 8th Indianapolis honored Bob postliumously for his interest in saving local baseball, with a "Bob Kirby Night" at tlic ballpark. 
On June 22 there was a surprise testimonial lunclieon for JOHN O'CONNOR, attended by 45 friends at the Athletic Club. 
Tlic newly elected oflicers have outlined the following acti\-ities for this summer: there were no official plans in May due to our "500" Mile Race and Fcsti\-al; BILL SAHM. '51, and BOB KANE, '50, arc the chairmen for our Annual Stag Outing June 16th; our Club Golf Tournament was held at Highland Country' Club July 21st headed by F, QUINN, '42, and GEORGE USHER, '45; the club considered initiating a summer dance around August; and last but not least will be our Annual Family Picnic some Sunday this summer. Last year this ^vas a vcr>* popular day with all the wives and children meeting other "Sons and Daughters of Notre Dame." There is always a good representation from some of the fine, large Notre Dame families. By large wc mean from "7 to 11" cluldren, sucli as the QUINNS, ELDERS, FISHERS, MULLERS , 
O'CONNORS, GILLESPIES, WELCHS, SHINES, 
ROa\PS, FIT2GERALDS, and the McNAAWRAS. 
It any alumni arc in our fair city on a Thurs­
day, drop into our weekly lunclieons at the Bar 
Association, 33 North Pennsylvania. Sec you 
ihcn.' 
—BILL McGOWAN, JR., '57, Secy. 

Jackson 
President CARL BACHLE, '53, moved to Cali­fornia in the spring to assume the position of ad%'crtising manager for the General Logistics i Division of Aeroquip Corporation in Burbank. Carl and Pat (S.M.C. '53) had their third deduc­tion and first son on May 13. 

Joliet 
ART SMITH and JACK MINZING. former 
roommates on Campus, have been teaming up in 
business affairs recently and have been seen brew­
ing deals over hot cups of coffee of late. 
RICK McCVRTHY gets home a couple of 
times per week from his Chicago residence and 
position with Montgomery* Ward. Rick is still 
a bachelor. JOE BR/\DY is also still hanging 
onto the single state. 
A talk with JOHN HORRIG/\N the other day 
confirmed our suspicions that he can easily sup­
port his family of six — he's doing quite well as 
a representative of one of the larger Chicago 
banks. 
Many of the old N.D. grads and Joliet Catholic High grads met after 20 years, in some cases, at the reunion of the J.C.H.S. graduating class of 1940 at D'Amico's in Joliet on May 29. DOM BOETTO, now a prominent attorney here, did a magnificent job of handling the entire affair. 
JOHN LUX, president of this Club, has teamed up with his father, publisher of Joliet's only daily ' newspaper. 
—JOHN R. MINZING, '48, Secy. 


Kankakee Valley 
DR. JOSEPH DAILEY was elected president of the Kankakee Valley Club at its Universal Notre Dame Night dinner on May 22. Elected to scr\c with Dr. Dailey were DAXID GR/\NGER, \-icc-president, and ELMER CVRPEN'TER, scc­retaiA'-treasurcr. 
Guests of honor and principal speaker for the occasion was PROF. JAMES DINCOLO of the ^ College of Commerce. Outgoing Presiden t THOM/\S REYNOLDS was in charge of the meeting. 

Kansas City 
One hundred and ten alumni, wives and guests joined Notre Darners throughout the world on Universal Notre Dame Night. April 2Gtli. Cock­tails and dinner at the Hillcrcst Country Club in honor of FATHER JOYCE u-as the order of the dav. Tlie program, under the direction of JACK FRITZLEN and CHUCK FRIZZEL, w ^ 
CLEVELAND—After 1960 decdons (L to r.) President-elect Leo J. Burby congratulates 1959 Fresiflent Paul Lillis, joined by Treasurer John J. Reidy, Jr.; Secretary William P. Skclly, and ^^ce-President Robert E. Dowd. 
outstanding and Father Joyce's talk an inspiration. Mrs. WILLIAM SH/VRP, JR., presented a clieck from the Auxiliary for the local club's scholarship fund. 
The Schlitz Brcwer>' played host to the mem­bers for our second annual "Summer Football Stag" on June 14th. ^fany local sports w-ritcrs and announcers joined members and guests to u-atch the 1959 Highlitcs and participate in the discussion following. The popularity of this event is startling. We drew- 150 this year tn compcti' tion with a Yankee-Athletic ball game. 
JOHN M/\SSMAN, Club President, installed the new* officers of the Au.\iljar>- on May 17th at the home of the retiring president, ^f^s. WILLL\M SHARP, JR. The new officers arc Mrs. ^•OR^fA^' GORDON, president; Mrs. G. J. HIGGINS, JR., v.p.; Mrs. J. S. GEISEL, JR., recording sec>'.; Mrs, 
M. W. LEWIS, corresponding sccj-.; Mrs. J. C. MEUXIER, treasurer; and ifrs. F. GRIMALDI, auditor. 
We can't end this brief rcWcw of Club ActiWties witliout mentioning the work of HERB ZEIGLER and his ticket committee. Tlicir hard work was evident by the fine crowds at our latect actiWtics and many inactive members attended their first functions. 
—G. "JIM" HIGGINS, Sec%-. 

Kentucky 
The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky had an excellent turnout of over 300 alumni, wives and friends for the annual Universal Notre Dame Night activities. The event u-as held in the Cr>-stal Ballroom of the Brown Hotel in Louis­ville. Tlie Club was privileged to have REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE as its guest speaker. One of the highlights of the cx'cning was the presen­
t^ tation of the Notre Dame ^^an-of-thc-Yea^ Award 
m to BERNARD BOWLING, '43. Our thanks to JOE DONALDSON, '23, who sen-ed as the toast­master and to LEO BRO\\'N, '50, and JIM HEN­NESSY, *51, who did an outstanding job as co-chairmen of this event. 
Officers for the ensuing year were also an­nounced at U.X.D. Night. PAUL MALONEY, '52, was elected president; JACK MUELLER, '51, 1st Wce-prcsident; JIM KREBS, '56, 2nd vice-president; TOM BR:\ND, *55, secretary, and WILL DcC/\MILLIS, '59. treasurer. BILL BOS­LER, '41, and JI.M HENNESSEY, '51, were elect­ed to the Board of Directors. 
^ During the past month BROTHER MARTIN 
W JOHN, principal of Flagct High School, Louis­nllc, expressed his desire to have Flagct partici­pate in the essay contest sponsored annually by the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky. Tlie topic is "Why Should I Attend a Catholic College." A medal, donated by the Club, will be presented the winner. 
On June 30, the Club gathered at Big Springs 

C.C. for its spring dinner mcetnig. Prospective freshmen at the University attended and were introduced to the members of the Club. Plans were laid for our annual summer outing to be held with XaWcr University Alumni. A large 
^ turnout is expected to help capture the Little P Brown Jug (the prize to the winner of the soft­ball game) and return it to the N.D. Club. 
Plans were formulated for our annual retreat to the Abbey of Our Lady of Gcthscmani in Trap­pist. Kentucky. This event is scheduled for AugiLst 5, G and 7. 
—THO.M/VS A BR.\ND, Scc>-. 

La Crosse 
Officers of the La Crosse Club are: JERRY HEBERLEIN, '50, president; STEVE P.W'EL^V, '48, vice-president; WILLIANf MURPHY, '52. sec­retary-; and BERNIE LAVINS, '51, treasurer. 
REV. THO.MAS J. O'DONNELL was principal » speaker at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner on May 24. FRITZ FUNK was chairman of the 
Lansing 
REV. JEROME J. WILSON, vice-president for business affairs at the University, was a special guest and principal speaker at the Lansing Club's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. The dinner was held at the new Albert Pick Motor Hotel. 
k JOHN F. POWERS was chairman. " Knute Rocknc Communion Sunday was ob-scr\'ed on ^farch 5 in Lansing. 

Lehigh Valley 
Our Fourth Annual Universal Notre Dame Night u-as held April 23rd. In a fashion unique to Alumni clubs, the festivities were once again 
I preceded by a Holy Hour in St. Catherine of 
INDIANAPOLIS—at a surprise testimonial in his honor (from left) Alumni Assn. President John O^Connor thanks ^vell ivishers, Charles Callahan, director of sports publicity; Patrick Fitzgerald, Indianapolis Club president; and John Welsh, chairman of the limcheon. 
Siena Church, .\Ilentown, at which our new 
chaplain, the REV. STEPHEN J. DAD.AY, led 
the Rosarv', gave a sermon, and offered Bene­
diction. Immediately following this ceremony the 
Hotel Traylor became a hub of acti\'ity for those 
attending the Cocktail Party, Dinner-Dance. 
FATHER GLENN BOARMAN, of the University-
administration. %%'as the principal speaker. 
JIM WALSH, outgoing president, introduced the 
new officers for the club year 1960-61: J.AGK 
MAGILL, president; DAVE L.\NGLEY, vice-
president; D.VVE NOLi\N, secretary; and TOM 
FOG.VRT^', treasurer. On behalf of the club I 
would like to express our deep gratitude to Jim 
for the wonderful job he has done in promoting 
the activities of our local club. 
A special thanks to our new president, JACK NL\GILL, for his work on the Christmas Dinner-Dance and U.X.D. night for which he both chair-manned and acted as toastmastcr. Tlic commit­tee, which consisted of PETE KUCHARCZUK and TONY TRIGIANI, gave Jack many \7iluable hours of their time. Well ENGINEERED! 
Our annual Family Picnic was the next social on the club calendar, held in July. 
A special invitation is being made to all alumni visiting or passing through the Lehigh Valley to attend our meeting and renew old acquaintances whenever possible. Meetings arc held in the Hotel Traylor, Allcntown, on the fourth Thursday of each month at 8:00 P.M. 
—DAVID E. NOL.\N, Secy. 

Long Beach 
Officers of the newly formed Notre Dame Club of the Greater Long Beach area were elected June 13: ED SHEER.\N, '31, president; HARRY 
L. LEE, '33, v^cc-prcsident; FR/VNCIS H. CON­AT\*, '43, secretaiA--treasurer. The directors are ROGER W. YOUNG, '42; ROBERT C. KELLE­HER, '49; FR.\NK X. O'NEIL, '30; and JOHN C. LUNGREN, '38. 
Los Angeles 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., was the honored guest, actor P.\T O'BRIEN the toast­master and Justice JOHN J. FORD the principal speaker for Universal Notre Dame Night at Los Angeles' University Club on April 25. MORTON GOODMAN was chairman of the affair. It was the last event of a unified Notre Dame Club of Greater Los Angeles. Henceforth there will be Notre Dame Clubs of San Gabriel Valley (north­east), San Fernando Valley (northwest). Long Beach (southern), and Los Angeles (central-west­ern). Each Club will be virtually autonomous and responsible for its own affairs, with. the ex­ception of the Pre-Game Rallies and Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Officers of the Los Angeles Club elected June 2, 1960, are as follows: MORTON R. GOOD­.MAN, '30, president; ROBERT P. LONERGAN, '43, vice-president; EUGENE C. a\LHOUN, '33. secretar^'-treasurer; and JOHN K. SKEEHAN, '32, assistant treasurer. Directors are EDWARD 
M. FOX, »55, and CHARLES E. STINE, '41. one year term; DANIEL J. GENTILE, JR., '48, and ROBERT L. GERVAIS, *55, t^vo year term; and JOHN K. SKEEH.\N, '32. and ALOIS J. WELZENBACH, '23, three year term. 


McHenry County 
The Notre Dame Club of McHcnry County, III., was organized in early ^£ay, with Alumni Secre­tary- JAMES E. ARMSTRONG in attendance. Elected as the first officers were: JOSEPH A. CONERTY, JR., '44, president; GEORGE K. COSTELLO, '40, vice-president; and ALFRED 
W. BIMROSE HI, '55, secretary-treasurer. REV. THOMAS C. BRADY, '59, is chaplain, and the directors are Messrs. Conertv, Costello and Bim­rose, plus OLIVER F. FIELD, '31; DONALD C. FREUND, '55; and PAUL D. McCONNELL, '32. 

Maine 
Wth the weather in spring elegance the Maine alumni came to life like the flowers and planned shortly to set up our annual summer picnic More details will follow. 
We are fortunate to have returned to us one of our favorite members of the alumni—^J. PAUL SCULLY, JR., '41, who just returned to Lewis-ton from a tour of duty at the Cclanese Cor­poration at Cumberland, ^^ar)*Iand. Paul is a new supervisor at the Raytheon Plant just going up in our fair city. 
.After a nice visit to Europe last May I per­sonally have found a way of going back to Europe on a business trip this time, vbiting London, the Hague, Stockholm, Copenhagen, Bielefeld, Ger­many, and Angouleme, France. 
Miss Lucia Cormier, sister of LEO CORMIER, '37, is running on the Democratic ticket for a seat in the U.S. Senate, opposing Senator Mar­garet Chase Smith at the polls this fall. 
We are always delighted to have visitors to the State of Maine stop in at our Plant — Geiger Bros. — here in Leuiston. We are right at Exit 13 on the Maine Turnpike and hope we might see some of the Notre Dame people passing this way on vacation. 
—R.AY GEIGER, '32, Secy. 

Mansfield 
The Notre Dome Club of Mansfield, Ohio, met February 17, 1960, at which time permanent offi­cers for the 1960 term were elected as folIow3: JOHN C. O'DONNELL, SR., '24, Mansfield, president; LEO J. SCANLON, '30, Crestline, vice-president; GEORGE F. KAVANAUGH, '41, Mansfield, treasurer; and RICHARD L- WALTER, *41, Mansfield, secretary. Tnistecs were elecit-d as follows: C. J. KOZAK, '31, BelU-ille, three-year term; JAMES J. JURGENS, Mansfield, two-year 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 37 
term; and WOODROW A. STILLWAGOX, ^36, Mt. Vernon, one-year term. 
The Mansfield Cluh obserxcd its first U.N.D. Night, April 23, 1960. Seventeen members and tlicir guests cnjovcd a dinner-partv at the Man<4­field-Leland Hotel. JERRY COLEM.VX, '44, Crestline, was clialrnian of the alTair. assisted bv* JACK O'DOXNELL, =51. Mansfield: JIM KELLY, 
•52, Mansfield, and WOODY STILLWAGOX, '36, Mt. Vernon. 
REV. J.-\MES DOLL, C.S.C., of the Univer­sity, gave an inspiring talk on the ''Spirit of Xotrc Dame." Newly-clecled officers of the Club were installed. 
.A combined busini-ss-meetlng and picnic for members and their wives was held May 18. 1960. at the Walton Lake cottage of HERB FRYE, '39, 
•Crestline. At this time the program for the bal­ance of the year was prepared. 
—RICHARD L. WALTER, Sec>-. 



Miami 
Our first meeting of 1960 was held 1-7-60 at the Everglades Hotel with Charlie Malier prcsid­
' ing. Elections were held and the following were elected unanimnuslv to office in I960: President, JA.MES SMITH; I'st \'7ce-Prcsident, D.\X ROW­LANDS; 2nd \^cc-Prc5ident. W.M. B. WELCH, M.D.; Treasurer. WILLIAM STREETER; and Secretarv-, JI.M ^\^LSON. 
President Jim Smith, after accepting his new role appointed committees for the following events: .Annual Communion Breakfast—JERRY HOL­LAND; Football week-end—Notre Dame v-s. Miami —ED KELLY and MIKE ZOROVICH. 
We also were happy to welcome a new mem­ber in GEORGE HERO, who is a newcomer to the Miami area. 
TIic meeting held on Febniarv- 22 was a special dinner affair honoring the visit of FR. TOM O'DONNELL, C.S.C., envoy to all Notre Dame Clubs and JIM FRICK, Foundation area director for the South. It was a pleasure to greet the JERO.ME HOLLANDS, the C. J. MAKERS, the MIKE O'NEILS, ED KELLY, the DICK HOURIHANS, TOM KAYLOR, ED LYONS, BERNIE FEENEY, DOROTHY BRAUTIGAM and ART BERGEN, ^^r. WILLIAM D. JAMIE­SON of the Class of '05 was a special guest. Other guests were Joe Krupp, Maurita Osbom, Dr. and Mrs. Briggh, Louis Jepeway and son. FARIS COWART, governor State Foundation; I. 
I. PROBST, City Foundation chainnan. rounded out the \nP list.' Highlights of the 1959 football season were shown. 
Tlie Annual Communion Breakfast was held on Sunday, Marcli 20th, 1960 with an attendance of over 100 persons. We wish to thank chairman JERRY HOLLAND, RAY POPP, BOB REILLY and ED LYONS for making this affair a success. We also want to thank our associate member. 
BERKSHIRE COUNTY—Officers of the new N. D. CItib of the Berkshires celebrate their first Notre Dame Night in Pittsfield. Mass., ^rith Rev. Joseph D. Barr>-, CS.CJ as principal guest Clockwise from Fr. Barry are James J. O'Brien, '34, president; John E. DeMoss, '40, vice-president; Edward A, Reagan, '43, treasurer; and Frank M. Linehan, '45, secretary, 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, I960 
DALLAS—Ed Haggar, '38, (right) re­ceives congratulations from Father Hesburgh after presentation of an engraved plaque by retiring Club President Jack Schrocter, '44, (center) on behalf of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. The award on Uni­versal N. D. Night recognized Ed*s years of service to the association as a director and 
vice-president. 

Doctor ED. L.AUTH for his fine talk about the timely subject of vocations. 
The April meeting was held at the Unnc>- Hotel on Tliursdav, April 7tli, It was nice to sec F.ARIS COWART, DAN ROWLANDS, BOB REILLY, CHARLES MAHER, BILL STREETER, JIM WILSON, GEORGE KENNARD, J. P. HOL­L\ND, RAY POPP, "DOC" TOKER, "DOC" BILL McSRANE, ART BERGEN and ED KELLY at this meeting. ED KELLY, co-cliairman of the football weekend committee, brought us up to date on this committee's %vork. Let's get behind Ed and Mike and make this a great success. 
The University has announced that ED KELLY and MIKE ZOROVICH have been appointed co-chairmen for the Miami Area Foundation. "IZ** PROBST ser\-ed in tins capacity for the past 7 years and of course did an excellent job. "Iz" did such an outstanding job that the University had to appoint two men as his successor. 
Annual Notre Dame Night was held along with the State Convention in Ft. Lauderdale on April 29th. We cliose to award CHARLES MAHER as our "Man of the Year* for his past service as President of the Notre Dame Club of Miami and for his many other accomplishments as a leader and a christian gentleman in our area. 
—J. R. WILSON, Sec>-. 



Mid-Hudson Valley 
On Monday. .April 25, 1960, the Notre Dame Club oC the Mid-Hudson Valley celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at the Nelson House in Poughkcepsie. This event marked the largest turn­out of alumni in the club^s lustorv'. The credit for this lar^e attendance goes to GERRY HOWELL for his usual excellent publicity and to BRLVN O'NEILL for his hard work in handling arrange­ments. 
DOCTOR JOHN J. KANE, Iicad of the .Notre Dame Sociolog\* Department, spoke on ^'Excellence in Education." Dr. Kane cited statistics to show the recent improvement in Catholic education and noted the sharp increase in graduate scliolarships awarded to recent Notre Dame graduates. Follow­ing Dr. Kane's outstanding address was a lengthy question and answer period that made the pro­ceedings all the more enjoyable. 
.Attending a Club function for the first lime were: Lucille and JERRY THOMAS, '54 (Jerr>­was transferred from Carmel, N.Y., and is pres­ently associated with the New York State Depart­ment of Public Works); and Ann and BILL LUS­SON, *39 (Bill has recently been transferred by IBM from its South Bend brancli ofHcc to Pough­keepsic where he is working on educational plan­ning). 
Tlic Club held its last spring meeting at the 
Excliangc Hotel in Saugertics on May 19. Plans: | were made for a picnic in August. —DONALD J. REYNOLDS, Pres. 

Milwaukee 
REV. GEORGE BERNARD, C.S.C., M3, Xotrc Dame's vice-president for student affairs, was the guest speaker at Universal Notre Dame Night cere­monies of the Milu-aukcc Club on April 20. 

Mississippi 
The Notre Dame Club of Mississippi coop-% erated fully with appearances of the X.D. Glee Club in Jackson on April 20 and Greenville on April 22. WILLIANf H. MILLER, Mississippi governor of the N.D. Foundation, worked closely with the Jackson Diocese in arranging a concert in St. Joseph High School, Jackson. Plans for a statewide Notre Dame Night banquet did not materialize became of the time and distances in­volved, but director DANIEL H. PEDTKE was a guest of the Club during the stay in Jackson. 

Mohawk Valley | 
The Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Valley celebrated U.N.D. Night on April 23 with a din­ner at the Beeches, Rome, N.Y. Guests of honor was REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., asslstaiu: prefect of religion at Notre Dame. 

Montana 
All Montana alumni who are interested In re­activating the Notre Dame Club arc asked to con­tact ROBERT J. DONLIX, M8, 1923 Lockey,. Helena. Bob travels for the Montana Fish and. Game Dept. ^ 

Muskegon 
We had a vcr%* enjoyable evening April 25 with about fifty-five in attendance at the Muskegon Country' Club for the local club's observance oC Notre Dame Xight. 
Wc enjoyed having FATHER JERO.ME WIL­SON* and his message from the University. 
LEX PUCCI is to continue as president. JINf MORSE is the vice-president, BILL TARDAXI, the treasurer and I am to continue as secretary. 
JACK PRICE presented the Man of the Year avrard to DR. RALPH V. AUGUST. JOE KEUSCH presented the annual scholarship award of $300.00 ^ to Thomas Carlson of ^luskcgon Catholic Central. President Pucci's wife, Betty Jane, prepared clever hand-made programs and distributed a question­naire to determine the popularity of various club events. 
JIM MORSE was working on a possible golf stag for some time this summer. —LEO L. LINCK, Secj-. 
BUFFALO—A pleasant memory of winter in the dog days is furnished by this belated look at Air. and Mrs. Donald T. Mahoney, '50. Don, who succeeded Don Jacobi as secretary of the Buffalo Club, was chair­man of the Christmas Dance held in con­junction with the campus club, and Mary Ellen represented the Alum-wives. 

Naugatuck Valley 
Alumni from the Watcrbur>* area took part in a joint obscr\-ancc with Hartford and Ne^v Haven alumni of Universal Notre Dame Night on April 26, with N.D. athletic director EDWARD (MOOSE) KR.\USE as a special guest. 
Nebraska (Omaha & Council BluflFs) 
P REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., the University's ambassador to the alumni clubs, was a guest at Universal Notre Dame Night in Omaha on .April 18. 
New Haven 
Tlie annual Family Cori>orate Communion of the New Haven, Connecticut, Alumni Club ^\•as held at St. Mar>''s Church on Sunday. February- 28. FoIIouing Mass a Communion Breakfast for mem­bers, wives, children and guests was ser\ed at 
k Corbey Court on the Yale University campus. W PHILIP S. WALKER. '54, was the general chair­man and JOSEPH P. BURNS, '34. was master of ceremonies. Speakers included Club President JOSEPH BENOrr, '49, and .Mr. ROBERT POR­TER, assistant dean of the Vale undergraduate school who spoke on the Growth of the Ecumenical Movement. 
The following were elected as officers for the 1960-61 term: President, JOSEPH CLx\RK, '51; Vice-President, JOHN KERRIG.XN, '49; Sccretarv. CHARLES J. DUCEV, '28; Treasurer, WALTER 
A. LEE, '38; Director for 5 vcars—JAMES V. McAVENEY, '39. New Haven Clubbers took part in a state-wide 
f obser\-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Hartford on April 26. MOOSE KR^VUSE \vns guest speaker. 
CHARLES J. DUCEY, Secy. 

New Jersey 
The presence of the Iegendar>' "Four Horsemen." as colorful that night as they were 35 years ago on the gridiron, highlighted the annual New Jer­sey Alumni Club dinner April 26 at the ^^ayfair Farms, West Orange. Tlie event marked the 37th annual observ-ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
About 250 ahimni, their wives and friends, at­tended the affair to pay tribute to JOSEPH M. 
f BYRNE, JR., *13, who u ^ presented the New Jersey Club's first annual "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award for his exemplar\' scr\'ice and devotion to "God, Countr>' and Notre Dame." The presentation of the scroll u-as made bv Club President WILLIAM L. KIRCHNER, JR., '51. The guest of honor also was lauded by each mem­ber of that famous backfield quartet, HARRY STUHLDREHER, ELMER LrVYDEN, DON -MIL­LER and JI.M CROWLEY, all of whom came from distant places to attend the function honoring ^fr. Byrne. In fact, Stuhldrelicr flew in from Miami for the f>ccasion and had to return the same night. 
} Besides the "Horsemen," the star-studded cast included REV. JOHN H. WILSON, C.S.C.. ad­ministrative assistant to the president at Notre Dame and acting director of the Notre Dame Foundation; REV. EDWARD L/VRKIN, dean of men at Scton Hall Umvcreity; REV. JERE.MIAH KENNEDY, C.P., associate editor of the SIGN Magazine, and FR/\NK J. HOLMES, toastmaster, \%"ho for the second straight year provided plenty of laughs, and managed to matcli football >'ams with the "Four Horsemen" even though he never played for Rockne. Chairman of the afTair was SA.M A. COL/\RUSSO, while WILLIAM J. WALDRON, JR. ser\ed as co-cliatrman. Both 
' dcser\'e a great deal of credit for another suc­cessful Universal Night. 
Most of the "old reliables" showed up for the cocktails, dinner and speeches, and it was re­freshing to see a few new faces, too. Yours truly was lucky enough to sit at the same table with Mrs. Bill Kirclmer, who like her husband, is also a lawj'er, and a very* good one. How else do you think she landed our president. Also at the tabic u-as a transplanted Peabody, Mass., classmate, ROD DUFF, '54, who somehow hxs managed to stay single, and Mr. and Mrs. BILL MURPHY of Foundation fame. Our president, Mr. Kirclmer, sat at the Iiead tabic. 
^Tost of the Byrne clan was on hand to honor their dad, including JOSEPH M. BYRNE HI, DICK BYRNE, '51, and daughter, Ginny Byrne, with husband, DICFC TIERNEY, another ole '54 classmate. Also saw Hx\NK BORDA, "BERT" BERTELLI, CHUCK COLLINS (lineman with the "Seven Mules"), ;VNGELO AMATO, past 
KANSAS CITY—K. C. freshmen at Notre Dame during the 1959-60 academic year are shown at a Club-sponsored farewell dinner for them last fall. 
presidents JOHN KELLY, Rx\Y TROY, BOB 
JOYCE and JOHN WINBERRY, vice-president 
JOE McKEON, secretary- BRUCE DOLD, LARRY 
and ^^CKEY DOYLE, JOHN and JI.M PAGAN, 
ROGER and JI.M FITZSI.NLMONS, HARVEY 
FOSTER, ERNIE ALVSINI, BOB L.VRKIN, PETE 
LUSARDI, JI.M McGOLDRICK, GENE FAR­
RELL, JOHN QUINN, JR., DICK O'DONNELL, 
PETE REG.VN, DAN O'NEILL, RUDY HOR­
NISH, PAUL REILLY, CLARK REYNOLDS. 
FRr\NK TRIPUCKA, PHIL SHERIDAN, JIM 
SEBOLD, CHAS. SCHUBERT, DICK LYNCH, 
GEORGE WENZ, and guests BILL HOLMES, 
JUDGES CARBERRY and SMITH and sports­
caster HARRY WISMER. There were many 
others on hand also whose names should be listed 
here, but aren't, chiefly due to sccretar>-'s lapse-
of memor>'. Note: We haven't intentionally omit­
ted anyone. The dinner was also marked by one 
minute of silence honoring the memor>' of the 
late JOE BOL^VND, whose recent death left a 
void in the ranks of Notre Dame men every\*'hcre. 
—JACK SAND, Seo-. 

New Mexico 
On .-Xpril 21, the Notre Dame Alumni .Associa­
tion of New ^fexico, sponsored a concert by the 
University concert band. A crowd of approxi­
mately 1500 enjoyed the socially and financially 
successful aiTair. We owe many thanks to Mr. 
EUGENE BAREL/\, a local business man, for his 
tremendous aid in this undertaking. 
—BOB LONCHARICH, Secy. 

New Orleans 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in New Orleans on Thursday, .April 21, at the New Orieans Country- Club, with REV. THEODORE 
M. HESBURGH, CS.C , as principal speaker. Tlie banquet followed a reception for Father Hcs­burgh arranged bv Club President JAMES E. S.MITH. 
New York 
On April 23rd the Nciv York Club enjoyed one of its most successful U.N.D. nights in many years. A dinner-dance was held at the Park Lane Hotel and was attended by over 250 people, in­cluding alumni, their wives and guests. The Chairman was our President, BILL CUDDY. Fea­tured guests were FATHER JOYCE, HON. OWXX McGIVERN, Justice of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, DR. JOHN K/\NE, and FRfVNK FAY of "Har\ey" fame. STEPHEN "BUD" MULVEY was the recipient of the "Man of the Year" award. 
GEORGE FR/\ZIER was Chairman of the 29ih rVnnual Retreat, which was scheduled for the weekend beginning ^fay 26th at the Jesuit Retreat House in Shrub Oak, N.Y. 
The Long Island Di\-ision led bv AL LEZMEZ and JINr .MacDEVITT played host to JOHN KI.M, an undergraduate at Notre Dame, at the Sky Island Club in Hempstead on .April 5th. John has left for Laos to join DR. DOOLEY'S Medico Team. The Club presented John with a camera. 
Sunday, March 27lh, was the date on which the Westchester Division held a vers- successful cock­tail party and dance at the Leewood Countr>' Club in Eastchester, .\.Y. J.ACK GARVEY was Chair­man and he and his staff did a magni6cent job. 
Tlic New York City Division lias been re-actl­\-ated. The new executive vice-president for the Division is RON ME.ALEY, '54, and already the Division has started mlling. On March 29lh the City Division was host at the New York A.C. for 
an organizational meeting and a forum on trading 
activities on the Ne%v York Stock Exchange. Con­
gratulations to BERNIE McDERMOTT, chairman, 
for a very interesting and entertaining evening. 
BILL CUDDY, '52, has been elected the new 
President for 1960. Bill did an excellent j'ob as 
Secretary' in 1959 and has made ever>'one*s job 
easier. JI.M SPELLALAN, '41, continues to bal­
ance the books as Treasurer. BOB FINK, '52, 
is the new secretar>'. 
"BUD" MULVEY and JACK HOYT led a 
contingent of Notre Dame men and their wives 
from the New York City area on a pilgrimage 
to Fatima, Lourdes and Rome on March 11th. 
The trip was jointly sponsored by the Notre 
Dame Clubs of Ne^v York City, Detroit and 
Chicago. 
The annual golf outing of the Club was held 
this year under the sponsorship of the Long Island 
Division on June 24th at the Huntington Crescent 
Club in Long Island. Chairman GORDON FOR­
RESTER promised a good time for all irith 
plenty of prizes for the pros and duH'ers alike. 
GUY LOMBARDO'S East Point House in Free­
port, Long Island, was the setting for the Second 
Annual Scholarship Dance sponsored by the Long 
Island Dix-tsion on July 22nd. The affair was 
quite a success. Many friends of the late GEORGE 
BODEN, '32, have sent in contributions to the 
Scholarship Fund in memory of George, who uas 
Chairman of the First Scholarship Dance. 
The Spring Smoker u-as held on May 19th at 
the Sex-enth Regiment Armorj*. The guests of 
honor were JI.\I ARMSTRONG and JOE KU­
HARICH. Chairman BOB SCHRAM.\t could safe­
ly guarantee an excellent evening. 
All Notre Dame alumni and particularly the 
members in this area are saddened by the passing 
of GEORGE SHEA, '40. George always went 
out of his way to help the Club by contributing 
time and effort to many of the Club's functions. 
—ROBERT J. FINK, Secy. 


North Florida 
On Februar>-8 the N.D. Club of North Florida elected the following new officers: GERALD B. JOHNSON, '50, president; JOHN F. CORRIGAN, '53, vice-president; and SAMUEL S. LAWXER, JR., secretary-treasurer. Congratulations to out­going president FRITZ BAU.MER for his excel­lent leadership of the past two years. The filmed football highlights of 1959 were shown at the meeting. 
Besides the traditional appearance of Jackson­ville representatives at the N.D. Florida State Convention in Fort Lauderdale, the North Florida Club again had its own Notre Dame Night in Jacksonrillc on Wednesday, .April 27. REV. RICH­.ARD J. GRIM.M, CS.C , was the guest speaker from the campus. 

Northern California 
Since the subdivision of the Northern California Club into the Son Francisco, Southern Peninsula and East Bay Chapters, officers have beta elected for the parent organization: WILLIAM E. SHINE, '49, president; JOHN A. (J.ACK) MILLER, '48, rice-president; J.AMES L. GREENE, '57, scfretarv; and JOSEPH S. CONCANNON, '49, treasurer. 
Thanks to ED AL%NSFIELD for his able direc­tion of his Club in the post. 
Tlie San' Francisco Chapter has held monthly luncheons on the second Wednesday of every month at the Leopard Restaurant. In Nfarch the 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, I960 39 
lundiron featured a St. Patrick's season special, 
ROX DELAXEY, Ireland's four-minute miler. 
discussing his races and the 1960 summer 01>"mpics 
in Rome. The May meeting had no featured 
speaker, but JAY FARRON threatened to sing. 
JOE KUHJ\RIC H %v-as the featured speaker at 
the Universal Xotre Dame Night meeting on 
April 23. 
Northwestern Ohio 
REV. JAMES DOLL, C.S.C., Notre Dame bac­teriologist, was guest speaker at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in Coldu-ater, O - on April 23. 

Oklahoma City 
The Notre Dame Club of Oklalioma City Iuld its lOih annual Universal Noire Dame Night din­ner on Wednesday. April 20, at the Oklahoma Citv Golf and Countrv Club. Tlie guest speaker %.-as RE\'. JOHN H." WILSON, aS.C , director of the Notre Dame Foundation. ED K.\V­ANAUG H was cliairman of the Man of the Year award, and JIM DOL.\N liandled the Boy of the Year award. DICK HOFF was cliairman of the dinner. Officers of the Club arc: DR. AL DRESCHER, president: JOHN HOBBS, vice-president; BILL LO.M.\SNEY, srcrctarv; and RALPH .MORRISON, treasurer. 

Orange County 
BILL V.\NGEN, charter president of the Orange County, California, group, has been returned to the job and is doubling as area cliairman for the 
N.D. Foundation. Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 25, coinciding with the dounioun Los Angeles observance. The last Club function was a picnic on July 30. 


Oregon 
On the xvord of ALBERT M. "DUKE" HOD­
LER, '23, Oregon's celebration of U.N.D. Night 
was *'. . . the finest affair we've ever had . . . 
certainly the biggest." One hundred and sixty-
five alumni and friends of Notre Dame gathered 
to hear a dou-n-to-carth talk by Head Coach JOE 
KUHARICH, after introduction of honored guests 
by TO.M M.AGEE, '32, cliairman. 
President CHARLIE SL.\TT, '33, expressed the 
Club's appreciation for the University, honoring 
us with Coacli "Joe" as our first campus speaker. 
Seems like we must now be a member of the 
Union! 
With N.D.'s prospects on everv'onc's mind, it 
u'as only fitting tliat this should be a "football 
night." On hand to pay tribute to a fellow 
coacli were University of Oregon Director of 
Athletics Leo Harris and Oregon State College 
Head Coacli Tommy Prothro. Both hope for the 
honor of being the first Oregon team to play N.D. 
Heading up the members of our ou-n N.D. 
family was University of Portland President HOW­
ARD J. KENNA, CS.C. The local Club is in­
debted to Fr. Kenna and his scliool for their con­
stant cooperation in ever>' activity the Club 
sponsors there. 
Football stars of yester>-car, honored at the head table, were Circuit Court Judge FRANK, J. LON'ERG.-\N, '04; BILL SCH.MTTT, '10; "DUKE" HODLER, Law '23; and GENE .MURPH\', '24, former University of Portland coach. Had he been in town, DOM OVLLICR^VTE, '08, would have completed the "old guards." Other letter-winners of recent vears saluted were FLOYD SIMMONS, '48, and TOM HUGHES, '58. 
Duke Hodler had as guest a Kelso, AVaslungton 
High School boy, Monte Fitclictt, who hopes to 
enter N.D. this year. Best of luck, Monte! 
Officers for the ensuing year: CILVRLIE SL.\TT, 
'32, re-elected president and yours trulv srcretarv. 
uith \nce-Pres. VICTOR T. NEAL, '48, and old 
faithful PETE SANDROCK, *39, as treasurer. 
Tlirec Directors will be named to fill out the Board. 

Going back to another dinner, on Sundav. January 17, FR. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, CS.C , was featured speaker at a Testimonial Dinner in honor of the Priests and Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross held at University of Portland. Nearly 900 people came to honor the dc\-oted service of the Order to the Portland community. Fr. Hcsburgh's talk on his exper­iences as a member of the International Atomic Energy Commission ^\'as most interesting and he won a host of admirers for the Holv Cross com­munity. HUGH LACEY, JR., '45; JIM MORAN, '55; CHARLIE SLrVTT, and TOM MAGEE repre­sented the Club on the dinner committee. It was 
a real pleasure to see FR. MEHLING back on his old Portland grounds. 
DR. EDW.\RD M. SCOTT, '46, now director of mental health for the State Board of Health, recently appeared as witness before the City Coun­cil in support of decent films and literature ordinances. 
Newcomers to the Club arc H.ANK LjVUER-MAN, '58, in executive training with Meier and Frank Co.. local department store; and FIL\NK GILLESPIE, a new engineer with Crown Zellcr­back Paper Co., Camas. Wash. CHARLIE FICK, '54. has recently come back home from the East and in Richland, Wash., at the atomic cncrg>* plant. He and his new bride recently spent their hone^inoon in Hawaii. .Another bridegroom Is PETER MURPHY, JR., '58, whose wedding took place in July. 
District Judge ED LE-W^', of Eugene, is a candidate for the higher Circuit Court in the primar>* election of May 20. Best of hick, Ed! 

Before signing olT, I'd like to express my appre­ciation to niv fellow workers on the U.N.D. Nite committee — MAURIE CONWAY, JR., '53: PHILIP R. .ME.-\NEY, '50; RUSSEL R. NIE­H-AUS, '51; and NEIL RUNNING, LL.B., '51. all of whom did an excellent job. 
And for the Club may I express our thanks to the retiring Board members — JUDD ('54) and JI.M {'55) MOR.\N, and PAUL NEWMAN, '55. for the great work they have done in. the Club's program the last two years. 
—TO.Nf MxVGEE, '32, Sec>. 


Peoria 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CS.C, the EN­NIO ARBOIT Memorial Trophy, and the Notre Dame Man-of-thc-Year Au-ard to RALPH E. (DUTCH) JOHNSTON, '31, highlighted the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night Banquet staged by the Notre Dame Club of Peoria, Held at the 
- Mount Hawley Countrv' Club on Monday, April 25, the event pleased a capacity crowd of over 200 members and their guests. 
Father Joyce ver>' beautifully depicted tlie need for the Notre Dame Family to remain a strong unit so that it may continue to grow in stature academically as It has during the past decade. In order for the University to acliieve this goal, the need for better graduate facilities, a new library, and Improved faculty salar>- levels must be at­tained. Numerous instances of the University's achievements from 1950 through 1959 were cited by the executive vice-president; scholastically, Notre Dame has continued to train men to compete intellectually with graduates from any other lead­ing universities in the world. 
Master of ceremonies for the evening was WIL­UAM J. MOTSETT, '34, who ably directed the program. Following his Introduction of local academic, city, business, and diocesan dignitaries, Bill turned the program over to H. A. "PETE" VONACHEN, '47, for the presentation of the 
EnnIo ^iVrboit Memorial Trophy of the Notre ^ Dame Club of Peoria. Arbolt, who passed away in 1954, "Kvas a Notre Dame alumnus who acliieved great success while coaching at Spalding Institute in Peoria for eleven years between 1938 and 1950. Vonachcn made the presentation of the four-foot trophy to Manual Training High School as the top football team in the City of Peoria during 1959. Receiving the award were Kenneth Hin­richs, football coach, and Harold Weldin, Prin­cipal of Manual. This Is the second successive year the award has been made to Manual High; the award was first given In 1956. A very much ^ surprised "DUTCH" JOHNSTON was presented the Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year Award by MAURICE J. CICCL\RELLI, '55. President of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria. "Dutcli," Chair­man of the Peoria County Board of Super\'i5ors and active for many years on the board itself, was cited for "reflecting for 30 years the Ideals and training of the University In his home, civic, biisi­ni-ss and club activities." He Is currently man­ager of xVmcrican United Life Insurance Co. in Peoria. 
Following Father Joyce's talk, he was presented with a check for the Notre Dame Foundation by A President Cicciarelll on behalf of the Club. 
General chairman for the affair was JOHN M.\NION, '56; he was generously assisted by JACK POWERS, '53, arrangements; PETE VON­ACHEN, '47, awards; TO.M LISTON, '40, public relations; BILL CUVRK, '47, tickets; and BILL 0'HAR:\, '50, treasurer. Newcomers to Peoria welcomed into the Notre Dame Club include BOB GORDON, JOE ExVMES, and WALT BARBU. 
At an informal dinner meeting on Tliursday, June 9, at the Peoria Airport, the guest speaker was Charles L. Dacey. editor of the Peoria Jour­nal-Star, who held the members spellbound with a description of his recent trip through Russia. A 
—JOHN .\L\NION, Seo-. 


Philadelphia 
The Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia had good attendance at the Februarv', March and April regular meetings. In February the board of direc­tors voted to make a $500 contribution to the University for the new Librar\'. On March 25 the annual retreat was held at Malvern, and on Lactarc Sunday the traditional presentation of vestments was made. 
Universal Notre Dame Night wxis celebrated on Friday, April 22, at the Whitcmarsh Valley Coun-^ tr>' Club, with cocktails, a lobster dinner and ™ dancing to the Jim Boyce orcliestra, under the cliainnanship of JOHN VOIT, '51. REV. ED­MUND JOYCE, CS.C , was the campus guest and principal speaker. 
Tlie May meeting featured DICK TORPEY de­scribing the program of Medico, the voluntary relief organization founded bv DR. TOM DOO­LEY. '48. 
The summer picnic was cancelled. In its place 

KENTUCKY—Here's a portion of the huge gathering for the Kentucky Club's Universal Notre Dame Night in the grand ballroom of Louisville's Brown Hotel. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1960 
An intellectual service of the University of Notre Dame 
for the- constant enrichment of the minds 
of Notre Dame's diverse family. 



thesollioieTRiDITIOI 
"THE MOVING FINGER" 
A Sarnpling of Recent Excursions Into the Not-too-Distant Past, History "Without Tears" and With Significance for Our Time, Prepared by the History Department Under Marshall Smelser 
INTRODUCTION: THE HERITAGE 
E
VEEYONE UKES HISTORY—that is, everyone who Is Interested in the story of man. But not,everyone 
4 understands history. Some thinit of history as dates and names, a series of causes, results, and a chronology. Unfortunately, these tools of history are all that some youngsters retain from their history courses — chiefly be­cause they did not learn to read the story for themselves. Others do not xmderstand history because they do not like these dates and names and causes and effects. They like fictionalized accounts that are not really history but the oratory or the dreams of some fast talker. But if man is worth studying, he is worth knowing the facts about. 
^ These facts are the very essence of history. And no really educated man can talk about anything intellectual with­out depending on history for his information. 
My friend, Professor Carlton Hayes of Columbia, keeps repeating that history should be the chief delight of the Cath­olic because the Catholic talks so much about tradition in de­fense of his faith. And I do not mean — nor does Professor Hayes — mediaeval tradition — but the doctrine and the tra­dition of the Church in her effort to keep alive the dignity of man and his supernatural destiny. After all, the Catholic 
^ Church can claim to be the only successful teacher of the 
• supernatural dignity of man, and of being consistent in this tradition throughout the ages. 
In the United States, Catholics have not been vei-y strong in history. One reason is because we in earlier generations were all raised on history books that were written by persons with a bias against the Church. We were so accustomed to brushing aside their opinions about our Church that we tended to brush the historians aside also. As Americans, a young people, we have also been so boastful of the modem world 
ythat we have not been conscious that ours is just one of a fc series of civilizations. In America we do not have any medi­
* aeval history, or ancient history, and our prehistoiy does not seem to have anything to do with the people that now inherit the land. Consequently, when a writer like Arnold Toynbee or Eric Voegelin writes those sweeping accounts of civilization succeeding civilization, about challenge and re­sponse, and about the rise and fall of peoples, we are unpre­pared to discuss them. For the present let me say that I ad­mire the wide learning of Toynbee and of Voegelin, and of Will Durant, but they are not writing history in these grand accounts. The information which they.bring to their writings 
% is available in the works of the historians, but the grand sweep from long before Homer to the last king of Arabia is fictionalizing in about the same way that the historical fiction writer fills out the known historical picture with the fictional heroes and events. Ah! they make such grand readings and 
-seem so majestic! Unfortunately, history is down to earth. There are world histories and histories which begin with the first known ages of man and come down more or less to the present day. But % if these are well done they are the work of hundreds of men, each historian writing the account of the period of which he has made years of study. Now, you will say that these ac­counts are dull. At times they are. If they are, it is not always because of the story they tell, but because the writer does not have a good style. There is nothing in the nature of history that should make it dull, although some pages are not b as exciting as others.. The important thing is that this is the 
By Thomas T. McAvoy, CS.C. 

history of men, not fiction. It is the fact, not a dream. And 
in speaking of historians here we are talking about educated 
men, men who really talk about the world of the past; and in 
the real world there is nothing higher among men lian the 
story of men; 

Because American Catholics are trained so much in re­ligious and philosophical thinking, they like to have their " history reduced to some kind of science. One philosophy teacher I know insists that historical knowledge is not' scien­tific because it, is particular. Once a thing happens in history the same thing'is another fact if it happens again. Such a philosophy teacher insists that the only real science is the kind that can be generalized, rationalized — even moralized 
— about. Unfortunately the generalized "man" he keeps talking about never lived, never voted, never built a home, or walked the streets. And whether history is science according to such a philosopher or not, does not matter much. At least the events of history did take place in the real world. 
• * * 

BUT ARE THERE no general rules for history? The answer is there are none, but there are historical generalizations, v^hich we make all the time and ,from which we draw our philosophical generalization and our rules of conduct. Because nations rise and'fall'and usually go into some kind of decline or decay before falling, history seems to offer some general rules for this sort of reasoning. Whether one believes in the total evolution of man's body or only in the later evolution of man's bodily qualities, the desire to fit things into a plan makes us try to draw up a philosophy or science of history. We desire to leave no question about the past unanswered. But here history should teach us to be wise — to know the limitations of human knowledge. 
American ffistory, likewise, has received slighting treat­ment from overzealous apologists who think that all great heroes and grand men and ideas existed only in a never-never ancient or mediaeval world. Of course the real history of those ancient and mediaeval peoples is quite a different story, but our Americans need also to come down to earth if they are to understand American government, American economic and religious freedom and even the story about the coming of their ancestors to this country and the conquest of this bountiful land. They need to read Charles M. Andrews on colonial Mai-yland, Edward Channing on the Revolution, Henry Adams on Jefferson, Schlesinger on Jackson, Thomas on Lincoln, Freeman on Lee. They should not be dependent on those who read history for their knowledge about the Declaration of Independence, the Bill of Eights, the Monroe Doctrine, any more than they take the word of their com­petitor in business on what is in the fine print of the contract. It is good for Americans to know historically what an American is. 
It is the unpleasant task of the historian to tell us that the human story cannot be reduced to a scale or to a scheme ­or to a set of rules. There are two basic reasons for this stand of the historian. The first fact is simply that the total scheme or plan of the world must come from the Divine Mind which planned all and that Mind has not given us, except in revelation, such a plan. We know now worldy wisdom which is only a part of the total picture of human activity. The second fact is the freedom of man. No matter how logical it may have been for Napoleon to have quit after Leipzig, we do know that he chose to come back at Waterloo. No matter how we reason about the next election and make pre­dictions, the free votes of Americans TOII decide it then, once' and for all time. 
There have been many attempts to write all history into a grand story with a majestic sweep. Beal historians, on the contrary, now for nearly a century have, been combining their efforts in preparing gigantic histories of the world in which each historian writes that portion of the story in which- he has mastery. Such are the Cambridge University histories published in England and the cooperative histories published in Germany, in France, and in this country. 
Unlike these real histories are the writings of such Hegelians as Arnold Toynbee, and Eric Voegelin, and Will Durant, who use historical dates and events at the start but who go on to a superworld of theory in which they seek to explain, by some law that they alone know, the rise and fall of nations or ci^'ilizations. They are quite logical within their own rules, and, if one accepted their rules as facts, their con­clusions might be valid. These philosophers of history are usually very tolerant of Christianity, of Moslemism, of Buddhism, of any other religious development, but do not grant any religion as a real manifestation of God. 
The great Christian philosopher of history was and is Saint Augustine of Hippo. The essential difference between St. Augustine and these modem philosophers of history lies in the fact that for St. Augustine the Christian religion is true and only God can give the full meaning of the human uni­verse. In recent years other Christians, such as Jacques Maritain, have used the phrase, "philosophy of history" in this Augustinian sense — but in reality they speak like him of a theology of history. 
St. Augustine was pi-imarily interested in the Graeco-Eoman world and in the question of evil and sin in that world. The modem theologians of history must, be more aware of other civilizations and of the problems of the atomic age. Western culture and Western civilization and the tech­niques of the pre-atomic age have been the chief elements in the Christian world until recently. The new world — while still Christian — must be Eastern and Western and embrace even the space dreams if they become real. 
But to return to history, there are some valuable books which give theories about the relations between religion and 
culture. There are, for instance, besides St. Augustine's City of God, and The Philosophy of History of Jacques Maritain, the books of Christopher Dawson, the Age of the Gods, The Making of Europe, and the Religion and the Rise of Western. Culture. They are written for the philosopher who is trying to establish a philosophy or theology of history. Besides these, there are the histories themselves. 
To THOSE WHO WANT to study history it is necessary to 
•remember that the first and essential quality of history is that it must be true. After all, liistory studies real man — the flesh and blood of other days in their humanity — good or bad. Consequently, to read history with understanding the reader should choose his field of interest. He may first read the broader history of a country or an age and then of in­dividuals in that country or age, or, if a personality of the age attracts him, he should first read the best account of that person. Unless he gets to know the men of the past as real A human beings, he has not entered history but fiction. The sensible way to read history is iirst to read books that are interesting. As a second guide, he should choose a book that is written by an authority in the period, especially one who writes well. On occasion, to get the facts the reader may , have to read a dull book. He must remember that the only authority in history is evidence, that is, witnesses or the testi­mony of witnesses. If he takes just anybody's or just any writer's word he will waste much time and learn much foolish­ness. History is strict like truth and hard like facts, but it gives its reader the thrill of knowing reality. ^ 
One reads history to learn about life. Of course that is * why all of us read history. It is our presumption that human nature is essentially the same at all times and places even though each man is free. Just as one is constantly learning from his own experiences what to do the next time, so man­kind learns mostly about the future from the study of man's past. History is good news when it tells us of good men and of success; bad news when it tells us of bad men and of failure — but it is news about men — and concerning no one else do we like to talk so much as men (and, of course, that includes women). ^ 
ENGLAND: ^THE BRITISH GENERALS REFIGHT WORLD WAR II ­
By Waller D. Gray 

A
FTER MOST MAJOR WARS it has been a pastime of re­_ tired generals to refight the war they had just 
fought on the battlefields in the pages of their me­moirs. These memoirs have rarely, if ever, been known to describe the author in unflattering terms and they usually leave the reader with the strong impression that the author's views on the war were unusually sound. The reader, if he is uncritical, is convinced that any defeat or reverse resulted from someone not following the author's advice. Since 1945 the generals of World War II have been actively turning to the peaceful pursuit of writing their memoirs. In general, these memoirs are extremely interesting, although often con­tradictoiy. They do reveal much about the conduct of the war and especially about the major disagreements between the Allies. These disagreements, although hardly mentioned in the public press during the war, have been the subjects of numerous controversies since the war as each new wartime memoir is published. 
*THE TURN OF THE TIDE^ A History of the War Years Based on the Diaries of Field-Marshal Lord Alan­brooke. By Arthur Bryant. New York: Doubleday, 1957. 624 pp. §6.95. 
TRIUMPH IN THE WEST, A History of the War Years Based on the Diaries of Field-Marshal- Lord Alan­brooke. By Arthur Bryant. New York: Doubleday, 1959. 438 pp. $6.95. 
THE MEMOIRS OF FIELD-MAESHAL THE VISCOUNT MONT­GOMERY OF ALAMEIN. Cleveland: The World Pub­lishing Company, 1958. 508 pp. $6.00. 
Although the American generals, Eisenhower and Brad­ley, published their memoirs almost a decade ago, it is only recently that the two leading British genei-als of World War II have published theirs. These volumes provide a significant addition to the literature about World War II. The two m 
, British generals are Field-Marshal Lord Alanbrooke, Chief of the Imperial General Staff, and Field-Marshal the Vis­count Montgomery, the -victor of El Alamein. Alanbrooke's memoirs are really his wartime diaries and they have been edited by the noted English historian. Sir Arthur Bryant. 
Alanbrooke's diaries are extremely interesting as they discuss -with amazing candor his problems as military head of the British war effort. Here he not only had to reconcile the divergent -views within the English and Commonwealth forces but also he had to inform, cajole, and humor Churcliill. He also served on the Allied Combined Chiefs of Staff where % he participated in formulating the global strategy of World War n . Later during the wartime conferences, which he at­tended as Churchill's military advisor, he negotiated with the Russian military leaders. Alanbrooke considers MacArthur the great military genius that the war produced in any army. He idolizes Montgomery as a brilliant but, at times, irascible leader of ground forces. His analyses of both Churchill and Eisenhower are frank, candid, and controversial. Alanbrooke feared that Churchill's captious and impredictable moods f would undo months of staff planning while Eisenhower, al­though , regarded as an extraordinary gifted and respected staff officer, is described ias one knowing "nothing about strategy." 
* * * 

MONTGOSIERY'S MEMOIRS are equally interesting as they state his view of the campaigns in Noi-th Africa, Italy, and ^ 
«'' 
western Europe. Montgomery, who was never reluctant to grasp of strategic matters. Both of these men have written state his opinion, is as testy as ever and his frank comments memoirs which are particularly valuable for their frank dis­
are not calculated to be devoid of controversy. He like Alan-cussion of interallied disagreements on the conduct of the war.' 
brooke, is critical of Eisenhower's handling of the Battle of Although these memoirs will strike Americans as highly 
the Bulge,.a reversal which could have been avoided. Mont­controversial, nevertheless, they are the memoir^, of two 
gomery .has the highest praise for Alanbrooke's direction of brilliant generals, whose devotion to the Allied cause, helped the war, although, he has .reservations concerning Churchill's to. achieve, victory. ; -­
«.-> 



FRANCE: DR. GUERARD AND THE BIOGRAPHY OF A NATION* 
By Leon Bernard 

 HIS DEATH a teyf. months ago, the acknowledged 
U
Nm "grand old man" of French historical studies iii 

this country was Professor Emeritus Albert Guerard of Stanford University. French-bom and educated, Dr. Guerard came to this country as a young man and spent 
(ll'ithe rest of his life teaching and writing at a succession of distinguished American universities. All told he produced • twenty-two books on the history and literature of his native land. Shortly before his death, in awarding him an honorary degree of Doctor of Letters, Brandeis University cited Guer­ard as a "civilized rebel, a sensitive nonconformist, a genuine renaissance man, a genuine lover of people, a blend of Gallic wit and American pragmatism." 
During his last years. Dr. Guerard worked on a compre­hensive history of France which would in elfect sum up more than half a century of study and meditation. This work has 
^inow been handsomely published by the University of Michigan Press as one volume in its projected fifteen-volume History of the Modem World, designed "to help prepare the literate American public for its role of leadership in the modem world." Dr. Guerard's swan song is indeed an eloquent one. His book is lucid, succinct, well-balanced, and brilliant in its interpretations. Also important fi-om the point of view of the general reader, the author does not presuppose in his reader more than a casual knowledge of French history. One does not have to be a specialist to enjoy this book. 
» » * 

^1 As ONE WOULD expect, Guerard has written a history of French civilization in its broadest sense. It is neither old-fashioned political chronology nor impersonal economic his­tory. Guerard is a humanist and his frame of reference is man. History for him is the product of man's endeavors. For example, the French nation which began to emerge in the 
IRELAND: A PEOPLE UPROOTED 
By R. E. 

^/-r'^^ ffEB^r FAMINE is a book that no student of X Irish affairs can afford to ignore. It is in fact one of 
the most important, if not the most important, work on nineteenth century Irish history that has been pub­lished during the past twenty years. The book is a collection of studies by specialists from both British and Irish uni­versities on all major aspects of the terrible famine experi­ence. The work has been so arranged that its introductory chapters analyze the social and economic conditions of Ireland 
-^ on the eve of the famine and the bewildering complexity of 
•Irish agricultural organization. Next, a chapter on the polit­ical background of the famine tragedy closely studies the political reactions of Irish agricultural organization. Next, a chapter on the political backgn^ound of the famine tragedy 
*THE GREAT FAMINE. By B. Dudley Edwards and T. Des­
mond  Williams.  New York:  New York  University  
Press, 1957. 517 pp. $6.00.  
0Related  Beading:  
iRELAiro  AND TH E AMERICAN EMIGRATION,  1850-1900.  

By Arnold Schrier. Minneapolis: University of Min­nesota Press, 1958. 210 pp. $4.50. 
TH E UPROOTED. By Oscar Handlin. New York: Grosset and Dunlap. (Universal Library paperback, UL-23).  310 pp. $.95. 
High Middle Ages is for Guerard the work of the Capetian 
dynasty, a rather shocking oversimplification for those his­
torians who explain the growth of a nation in geographical, 
racial or mystical terms. The author is at his most brilliant 
in his word-pictures of such great figures of French history 
as Charlemagne, Bichelieu, Louis XTV, Napoleon — and 
Charles De Gaulle. 

While Dr. Guerard's book starts with prehistory, the major emphasis is on the recent period. Almost a third of the text is devoted to the period since World War L The reader will find an excellent background of the Algerian crisis and of De Gaulle's other historically-rooted problems. Also of interest is the author's calm prediction of the inuninent doom of the French national state. In his opinion the world­view ^vill supercede the national in the same way that in the Middle Ages the national view replaced the parochial. But what is most lasting and, especially to Guerard, of greatest importance, the French spirit and culture, will live on in a new world framework. 
No better short history of France can be recommended to the reader. 
*FHANCE: A MODERN HISTORY. By Albert Guerard. Ann Arbor: The University of Michigan Press, 1959, 616 pp. $8.75. 
Related Beading: 

O N THE GAME OP POLITICS IN FRANCE. By Nathan Leites. 
Stanford, Calif.: Stanford University Press, 1959. 
190 pp. $2.50. 
THREE AGAINST THE THIRD REPDBLIC. By Michael Curtis. 
Princeton, N. J.: Princeton University Press, 1959. 
313 pp. $6.00. 
 WHEN POTATOES WERE NOT* 
Burns 

closely studies the political reactions of Irishmen to the food crisis and the effect of that crisis on Anglo-Irish relations. The manner in which relief was organized and distributed is considered in detail. Both the medical history of the famine, and the begfinnings of the great overseas emigration receive-careful attention. The work concludes with a scholarly exam­ination of the famine tradition preserved in popular folklore. Although the editors have styled their volume as no more than a contribution toward a history of the famine, the scope and quality of the book belies their modesty. The Great Famine has superseded all previous works on the subject. 
Between 1845 and 1852 more than 500,000 men, women, and children died in Ireland from the famine or from its consequences. Those years were more than a noteworthy period of greater misery endured by a generation already conditioned to suffering. Those years were a testing time for the nineteenth century state. The famine times reveal very clearly the limitations of men in public office who were un­willing or incapable of rising above the economic conventions of their day. Blinded by an excessive solicitude for the rights of private property, by the mythology of self-help, and by an unshakable faith in the efficacy of private charity, English and Irish ministers struggled unsuccessfully with a disaster that was wholly contemptuous of the laws of political econ­omy. The potato fungus that visited the country in 1845 and rotted the crop in the ground was not the cause of the famine. That same fungus visited other places in western and central Europe without destroying seven per cent of the population and driving another eighteen per cent overseas. The cause of the famine was that ordering of human affairs which con­demned so many people to a life-long dependence upon a single crop. The potato economy, the improgressive state" of Irish argiculture, and the bitter relations between landlord and tenant were exprresions of the same evil, that of poverty. When the distribution of the product of Irish soil had ceased to bear and relation to the needs of its occupiers, disaster awaited only an opportunity. 

« « * 

No ONE OR NO CLASS in Irish society really escaped from the hardships of the famine. Typhus and relapsing fever were amazingly democratic and the costs of famine relief and the encumbered estates' courts were extremely effective dis­solvents of the traditional Irish landlord system. In the last analysis, the picture that emerges from The Great Famine has mudi in common with James Connolly's sketch in Labour in Iriah History written nearly fifty years ago. "No man," wrote Connolly, "who accepts the capitalist society and the laws thereof can logically find fault with the statesmen of England for their acts in that awful period." Apart from providing some solid scholarly support for Connolly's intui­tion. The Great Famine has a powerful message for all of its < readers — even for those with only a passing interest in Irish 'affairs. It shows what can happen when the minds of men have become enslaved by slogans and addicted to cliches. It shows what can happen when even the best intentioned public men have become the prisoners of an ideology, any ideology. 


THE U. S.: AMERICAN HISTORY AND AMERICAN FOLKLORE* 
By Philip 

W
HEN OLD FEiENDS meet in alumni gatherings and exchange reminiscences of earlier days at Notre Dame — tales, perhaps, of the History Depart­ment's "Tufly" Ryan, of "Goof" Hines' amiable ineffec­tiveness, or of Eockne's half-time histrionics — they ai-e no doubt unaware that they are enriching the broad stream of American folklore. Yet they are doing just that, for as Eichard M. Dorson's American Folklore makes clear, folk tales still flourish in our mechanized and unfolksy century and no­where more vigorously than in the oral traditions perpetuated on college campuses. We are so accustomed to associating folk­lore with the remote past or with the isolated hollows of the Great Smokies that it startles us to see the term applied to these contemporary college traditions, to modem legends of the automobile age (like the widely circulated tale of the Ghostly Hitchhiker), to reports of messenger boys lost in the mazes of the Pentagon, or to classic accounts of goldbricMng in the army. 
Professor Dorson brings the study of folklore up to date with these examples of modem folk tales. He also teaches us to view more critically the folklore purveyed by the mass media of communication; in a highly revealing discussion of "Twentieth-Century Comic Demigods" he traces the rise of "fakelore": the manufacture and exploitation by advertisers and commercial interests of such spurious folk heroes as Paul Bunyan and Pecos Bill. Stories of these and similar colossi are usually the fabrications of copywriters intent on selling a particular brand of lumber or attracting tourists to some fabled "Pecos Bill Country." Indeed, their closest authentic relation to American life is that these pseudo folk heroes represent a variety of American salesnianship and reflect our national obsession with supersize and superstrength. 
IN SHOWING THAT present day folklore — and fakelore — are conditioned by some of the major currents of modem society. Professor Dorson is simply employing the same technique by which he examines the whole of American folk­lore, for he is convinced that "the only meaningful approach to the folic traditions of the United States must be made against the background of American history, with its unique circumstances and environment." It is his expert and grace­ful weaving of folk traditions into the tapestry of American history that makes Professor Dorson's American Folklore a significant contribution to the study of American history as 
-well as a rewarding introduction to the often misunderstood world of folklore. In the pages of this book we see the experi­ences of colonists, patriots, frontiersmen, slaves, and immi­grants from a new perspective, the perspective of those who lived these adventures and then repeated their tales of sprites and demons, fights and frolics. 
The earliest settlers in the American colonies brought as part of their intellectual baggage a large and fanciful assort­ment of folk legends and beliefs which, in time, were molded by contact with the new environment and the aboriginal lore of the Indians. Eeports of preternatural happenings were commonplace, and the witchcraft hysteria of the late seven-. teenth century was only the most climactic episode in the run­
Gleason 

ning engagement with the powers of darkness in colonial America. Belief in witchcraft declined after the horrifying spectacle of Salem, but the struggle for independence stimu­lated 3 new current of folklore. Yankee Doodle and tales of the Blue Hen's Chickens reflect the emotions of the revolu­tionary movement and at the same time presage the search for the unique American identity which preoccupied the young republic. 
Professor Dorson sketches the rise of native folk humor against the early nineteenth century background of westward ^ expansion, Jasksonian democracy, and the growing influence of popular journalism. Although much of this is relatively familiar material, we gain a new insight into the homely facts of frontier life upon learning how often tall stories of the period dealt with the extravagant shaking that accom­panied the fevers and agues of the backwoods. There is also a deft characterization of Lincoln as the "star backwoods humorist" who once got up in the middle of the night and aroused a friend to pass along a good story that came into his mind. Yet the freshest and most arresting material comes in Professor Dorson's topical discussions of regional, Negro, * and immigrant folklore. 
» -* » 

THE SURVIVAL OP regional folk cultures — surveyed by the author in German Pennsylvania, the Ozarks, Spanish New Mexico, among the Mormons of Utah and the Yankee islanders off the coast of Maine — bespeaks the tenacity of local traditions and reveals the surprising degree of cultural diversity that exists in the United States in spite of massive pressures tending toward unifonnity. The two chapters on the folklore of the Negro and the immigrant give further _ evidence of the diversity of American culture and of the close interaction between historical forces and the oral tradi­tions of the people. The description of the mingling of dif­ferent racial and ethnic folk traditions in the United States makes fascinating reading — especially the account of the multiple immigrant cultures that exist side by side in Mich­igan's Upper Peninsula — but more than that, these chapters show US the melting pot in action and open a new perspective onto the racial and cultural adjustments of American society. 
American Folklore is, in short, an admirable contribu­tion to the-University of Chicago's inexpensive and readable % 
'"History of American Civilization" series. It can be recom­mended with confidence to any reader who has even the most casual interest in the American past and the development of the American mind. 
•AMERICAN FOLKLORE. By Richard M. Dorson. Chicago: University of Chicago'Press, 1959. 320 pp. $4.50. 
Belated Reading: '^ AMERICAN HUMOR. By Constance Rourke. New York: Doubleday, 1953. (Anchor paperback A-12). 253 pp. $.75. TH E COMIC TRADITION IN AMERICA. Edited by Kenneth 
8. Lynn. New York: Doubleday, 1958. (Anchor paperback A-187). 416 pp. $1.45. ^ 
^llicrc was a cocktail party on June 5 for the bene­fit of the Notre Dame Library' Fund. Notre Dame /Vssociatcs, tlie investment club for 
Philly Club members, is flourisliin? under the di­\\ rectJon of JOHN P. DEMPSEY, JOSEPH ZIEMBA . and WILLIAXr A. WHITESIDE, JR. j Tlie Chib is sponsoring a four-day all-cxpcnsc I trip to Miami for the Notre Dame-Miami game 
on Nov. 12. TIic group will stay at Miami's 

• Carillon Hotel for three nights. Co-cliainnen of 
the trip arc CHARLES A. CONLEY, WALTER J|J . GROTHAUS, JR., and WILLIAM A. WHITE­^SIDE, JR. 
Phoenix 
Congratulations to Phoenix' BILL M.AHONEY, a member of the Ahunni Board, for his part in the successful campaign of Senator John Kennedy in the Arizona and National Democratic Conven­tions. 
Pioneer Valley 
J ^ The Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame 
^Nigiit at Storrou'ton Tavern in West Springfield. The attendance was pleasing to President DAN O'CONNELL, who presided. The principal talk was given by WILLI.VM G. O'HARE, JR., head of the Bureau of Government Research at the University of Massachusetts. It was unanimously agreed that Bill O'llare's talk was the most in­teresting in many vears. 
Bill's talk was arranged by HY.MIE CR.\NE who was his 1940 classmatc-
Thc Club was represented at the Notre Danic Night gathering of the Pittsficld Club in the per­sons of DAN O'CONNELL and JOHN F. SHE.\. 
•Bot h were impressed by the enthusiasm of the new club and feel sure it will be a success. 
Representatives of the Club at the meeting to discuss the formation of a Catholic College Club of Western Massachusetts were TO\f DUNN and BILL HURLEY. This idea is the subject of much discussion and is not as yet movtxl from the plan­ning stage. 
The Club was also represented at the funeral of Tom Murphy, of Fairfield, Connecticut, fay members Shea. Dunn and Hurley. Tom's brother, TIM MURPHY, was the former president of the Notre Dame Club of Hartford and also commis­sioner of Public Works for the State of Con­
^nccticut. 
W Members at the Universal Notre Dame Night were President DAN O'CONNELL, DR. TO.M FERIA, JOHN F. SHE.\, TO.M WEST. JOHN 
F. SULLIVAN, RAY SNYDER, JACK TROY, TED BUDYNKIEWICZ, ART DEMERS, HUGH CRANE, TOM DUNN, GENE O'NEILL, a\R L NILSEN, HENRY PADDE.V, ED HURLEY, JI.M REGAN and of course the principal speaker, BILL O'HARE. 
President DAN O'CONNELL arranged for a steak roast at his home about the middle of June. The full executive board is as follows: DANIEL 
J. O'CONNELL, '22. president; THO.MAS F. ^DUNN , '36, vice-president; WILLIAM A. HUR­WLEY, '28, secretary-treasurer; HUGH T. CRxVNE, 
'40; MAURICE F. a\SEY, '49; THADDEUS J. BUDYNKIEWICZ, '49; and JOHN F. SHE.\, 
^06. directors. 
The Club held a Communion Breakfast on De­cember 6, attending ^fass at the Blessed Sacrament "Church in the Round," and had breakfast at the Yankee Pedlar Inn in Holvoke. President D^VX O'CONNELL, ART DE.MERS, ED HURLEY and TOM ROGAN represented the Club at the 1959 Career Night of Cathedral High School. 
—WILLIAM A. HURLEY, Sec>-. 

^Pittsburgh 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh held its annual Family Communion Breakfast on March 6. Mass at St. Paul's Cathedral, Oakland, u-as fol­lowed by breakfast at the Hunt Room of the Webster Hall Hotel. The guest of honor was REV. LOUIS NENE, diocesan director of the Family Bureau, Elected to take office on U.N.D. Night' were PETER F. FL.\HERT\', president; DONALD W. BEBENEK, vice-president; GEORGE 
W. BROWN, secrctan.-; HARRY G, PATTERSON, ^treasurer; REV. THO.\LVS .M. KIRBY, chaplain; 
•an d directors LEO J. VOGEL, JR., JOHN R. EDWARDS, JR., J. LEE KIRBY, JR., and BER­NARD ^^\ CONROY. 
Mr. and Mrs. GENE HILKERT, '43, look ad­vantage of an invitation from the Fort Lauderdale Club to attend the Florida State Convention on the weekend of April 29. 
Pittsburgii's own Universal Notre Dame Night w-as held on April 25. Tlie MOST REV. JOHN 
MID-HUDSON VALLEY—aub officers and their wives pause with Dr. John J. Kane, head of the Univcrsity*s Sociology department, durinc^ celebration of U.N.D. Night at the Nelson House in Poughkcepsie. From left are President Don Reynolds and wife Peggy; Dr. Kane; Vice-Prcs. Charlie Beck and wife Lena; and Treasurer Brian O'Neill and ^vife Ellen Marie. 
K. MUSSIO, Bishop of Stcubenvillc, O., was the guest of honor. JOHN R. EDWARDS, JR., was chairman of the event. 
Members were invited to attend the annual meet­

ing of the Catholic Historical Society of Western 
Pennsylvania on Mav 28. The featured speaker 
u-as REX"". THOMAS T. Mc-VVOY, C.S,C., arch­
ivist of the University. 
A new Club Directory* was prepared during the summer. TIic annual Golf Outing was scheduled for September 7 at the Pittsburgh Field Club, time of a drawing for an all-expense trip for two to the N.D.-Pitt game on campus. GENE COYNE is chairman of the Golf Outing, while BILL Nfc­GOW.AX, JOH.V \'UONO and BILL ENGEL worked on the sale of chances. 
Rhode Island and S. E. Mass. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and South­eastern Massachusetts on the 28th of April with Dinner and Reception at the Wayland Slanor in Providence. 
BROTHER FR^\NCOIS GUILBAULT, C.S.C., was honored as **Man of the Year" by the Notre Dame Club for his exceptional work as the first principal of the new Bishop Henricken High School. Brother Francois was graduated from Notre Dame in 1948, and entered the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. He received a master's degree from the University of Montreal in 1953 and be­fore coming to Rhode Island was adminbtrator of the \'jncentian Institute of Albany, New York. 
"He did not come here until last July," said JAMES McMULLEN, president of the Club, "and in that time he has established a high scholastic standard, athletic teams, a glee club and other actin'ties." 
Because Brother Francois was at the order's retreat IiotLse in .-Mbany, the placque honoring him was received by BROTHER PAUL SCHOWY­ER, C.S.C., assistant principal of Hendrickcn High School. 
The principal speaker was ED KRJVUSE, who brought us up to date on recent happenings at the University. PHILIP TOOLE was cliairman for the evening. Re-elected for another year were J.-VMES .NfcMULLEN, president; JOHN .MA­GUIRE , vice-president: PHILIP TOOLE, treas­urer; and EDWARD DENNING, secretary-. 
F.VTHER THOMAS O'DONNELL and JOHN MacCiVULEY were guests at the annual meeting back on March 24. 
Rochester 
The Notre Dame Club of Rochester, N.Y., at a meeting on April 5, elected officers for 1960-61: DONALD BOOTH, '49, president; T. HAROLD McaVBE, '22. vice-president; EDWARD J. DEMP­SEY, '55, secretary-; and RICHARD MILLER, '44, treasurer. The neiv officers ^vcrc to be Installed on Universal Notre Dame Night. The 1959 Foot­ball Highlights film was shown, and there was a 
discussion of program and finances. 
U. N. D. Night was celebrated on April 23 at the University Club, with a cocktail hour, dinner and dance. Co-chairmen were ^fr. and ^(rs. JACK NYE DUFFEY, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. HEAGNEY, and Mr. and Mrs. WILLUM T. WHELE.\L\N. EDWARD KRAUSE, director of athletics at the Unix'ersity, was special guest. 
In order to increase the scholarship fund the Rochester Club undertook a major promotion, sponsoring an American League professional foot­ball exhibition game between the Buffalo Bills and the Denver Broncos on Saturday, August 13, at . Aquinas Stadium. 
The annual summer picnic was held on July 31 at Corbett's Glen, Camp Hideaway. JOHN CASEY and DON BOOTH \vere co-chairmen, 
Rockford 
A Rockford priest who once \ras a Chicago policeman and a navy chaplain, REV. JOSEPH 
J. REIKAS, was named Rockford's Notre Dame Man of the Year at the U.N.D. Night dinner ol the Rockford Club of April 27 at the Faust Hotel. Father Reikas is pastor of St. Peter and Paul Church. The guest speaker from the campus was REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C-, a former army chaplain, now cliaptain of Notre Dame's off-campus students. On the committee were BILL .McGUIRE, GEORGE O'LEARY, and BILL LICH­TENBERGER. 
Officers of the Club are: ALBERT CARROLL, president; CHUCK LUECKE, 1st \-ice-president; TOM KEEG.VN, 2nd vice-president; and DICK WILLSON, treasurer. 

Rome 
REPORT ON NOTRE D.VME ALU.MNI PILGRI.MirXGE, ^rARCH 12-20, I960 
What the local club members have often dreamed of, a first Notre Dame ^Vfumni Pilgrimage to Rome, has happened. 
With special credits to ED RONEY of Detroit for organizing it and leading it. it was the Rome Club's prinlege to host and guide it in the Eternal City. 
As the pilgrims themselves will tell you, they deplaned here to the blast and chant of the Vic­tory Marcli and the welcoming faces of both Fathers of Holy Cross and local alumni, bona fide and synthetic 
Thanks to the very hospitable handling of T\VA*s local BILL CHAMBERS and his assistant, AL TUFi\NO, yc tired but ver>* happy pilgrims were xvhisked past Customs with a polite nod of grati­tude. 
T\*pical NDers, all were up and out to Mass at St. Peter's on their first day. It was warming to witness rail after rail of Communions at the Altar of Pius X where the pilgrimage chaplain, FATHER CHARLES McGARR/VGHER, C.S.G., offered the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 41 
Mass. Then out into St. Peter's Square for a first look at and Blessing from our Beloved *'PAPA JOHN" XXIII. 
Each day, ^^onday through Friday, the group toured Rome under the expert leadership of FATHER EDWARD BATES, C.R. (Congregation of the Resurrection) who has written a "Chrono­logical Tour of Rome." Father Bates was assisted by professional guides as well as by Holy Cross seminarians when thc>- were free from scliool. 
Each night, out wc went to ''taste*' a different famous restaurant and niglit spot: To famous Alfredo's, Tlic Hosteria Del Orso, The Palazzi. The Bibliotcca, The Ulpia, Tlie Scoglio Di Frisio. The big night, of course, u-as St. Patrick's Night where our Roman number-onc-subway-alumnus, GUS ROSSI, proprietor of the Scoglio Di Frisio, went away-all-out to give the N-D. Fighting Irish a Green Night. 
Top spot in their Roman Holiday was Wednes­day morning when "rain or no rain" wc were received in special audience by John XXIII, In the ancient courtyard of San Damasco. where JERRY ASHLEY of Detroit, in the name of contributing alumni presented the new Fleetwood Cadillac to His Holiness. With characteristic largeness of heart Papa John said that he not only blessed the car but all the cars of those who stood before him. 
Most appropriately the Roman stay was wound up by a special pilgrlmage-withln-a-pilgrimagc to the General Curia of the Congregation of Holy Cross and to Notre Dame International Scliool for Bo>-s. At the Curia, on the Feast of St. Joseph. (Patronal Feast of the Brothers of Holy Cross) our pilgrim attended Solemn High Mass offered by FATHER EDWARD L. HESTON, aS.C , Procurator General of the Congregation of Holy Cross and Rome Club Chaplain (now in Mayo Brothers Clinic, Rodiester, Minn., In a cast fol­lowing a delicate operation). The ^fass was chanted by Holy Cross seminarians who sent tingles up all spines when as a recessional they four-parted "Notre Dame Our Mother"; in their scminarv' recreation room, ED RONEY presented to them in the name of the pilgrimage se\'eral sets of American Folk Music recordings. At the same time Zenith All-Transistor Radios were given to Father Bates and to your grateful reporter. For full measure, the generous N.D. pilgrims pre­sented a purse for distribution among those who assisted them here. 
At Notre Dame International Scliool a ciiffce and rolls snack was enjoved while BROTHER LOYOLA CHRISTOPH, C.S.C., Headmaster, ex­plained the purpose and histor>' of this unique "Notre Dame International" wlicre bo>-s, a^c 9 through 19, from 40 nations receive a traditional N.D.-CS.C. education. 
On Sunday morning bright and early we waved them off by bus for Assist where they would *'make the noon day Mass*' at the Tomb of St. Francis, whom I'm sure would have gone to Notre Dame and joined the Glee Club had he been born in the proper century. In summing up: All agree that this initial N.D.U. Alumni Pilgrimage is a trail-blazer of many more to come. Wc Roman N.D.ers \vlll always be here with open arms imi­tating in spirit Our Lady on the Dome. If you will allow a slogan: The Notre Dame Family has two homes — Under two Domes, Notre Dame's and St. Peter's. 
—VINCE AfcALOON, Sec>-. 

Sacramento 
In April with the hrip of REV. THOMAS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., a Notre Dame Club of Sacramento, Calif., was formed. THOMAS KASSIS, former All-Amcrican guard, was elected president. Other officcnj arc HARRY FOLLMER, executive rice-president; ROBERT KNAPPMAN, director of public affairs; JACK NOLAN, treas­urer; and DR. AL KUN*TZ, secretary. Follmer. Knappman and Nolan were selected to attend 
U.N.D. Night at San Francisco's Palace Hotel %rith JOE KUHARICH as featured speaker. 
Tlie fint meeting of the Sacramento Club was held June 1 in the Lancer Room of Cordo\'a Lodge, witli nearly 100 of more than 200 Sacramento area alumni attending. JIMMY PHELAN was guest speaker, and the color film, "Notre Dame," w-as shown. Tlierc was a discussion of an air trip to the N.D.-U.S.C. game in Los Angeles. Co-clialr­men were TOM KASSIS, DR. A. L. KUNTZ, and BOB KNAPPMx\N. 
St. Joseph Valley 
Since the December Family Communion and Holiday Dance, three more events were held by the Valley Club, the 29th annual Rocke Com­
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, September^ 1960 
munion Breakfast, the annual Spring Game be­tween the Varsity and Old-TImers, and Universal Notre Dame Night. 
On March 27 J. PATRICK (PAT) CANNY, former president of the Alumni Assn., was toast­master at the Rocknc Breakfast in the Morris Inn following Mass in Dillon Hall Chapel. Pat, a Cleveland attorney, introduced JOE KURTH, the featured speaker, a tackle on Rock's last team and now executive 5ccretar\' of the C.Y.O. in Garj*. Ind. Tlic breakfast was followed by the traditional wreath-la\'ing ceremony at Highland Cemeterv*. BURNIE BAUER was chairman. 
The Spring Game was held at School Field (the 

N.D. stadium was being resodded) in May with the Varsit\' rictorlous. Tlie game is played for the benefit of the Scliolarship Fund. JOE HAN-NzVN was ticket chairman. In March the win­ners of S6,000 in scholarships were announced, with a full scholarship going to Jerome Kumlnccz, a senior at St. Joseph's High, and a partial scholarship to William Lean of Penn Township High. Eight Valley Club scholars arc in school at all times. The Club's Scholarship Committee is composed of J. FRANK MILES, chairman; J.\MES E. ARMSTRONG, FRANCIS JONES, J.\MES R. MEEHAX. R. FLOYD SEARER and CHARLES A. SU'EENEY. 
Notre Dame Night was celebrated ^lav 2 at 

the Morris Inn. REV. CHESTER SOLETA, 
C.S.C., Notre Dame's vice-president for academic affairs and a South Bend native, uas the featured speaker. 
St. Louis 
The annual Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the Park Plaza Hotel on the c\-enlng of May 3rd. Some 150 alumni and their wives at­tended the affair. FATHER JOYCE, rice-presi­dent of the University, was our guest speaker. The "Man of the Year" award was presented to LOU FEHLIG, '37, and also the following Officers and Board Members were Installed: President. DON R.ATCHFORD, '50; Secretary-Treasurer. BOB CHICKEY. '54; Vice-President (Public Rela­tions), DR. DICK HUCK, '47; Vice-President (Activities), HANK DAHM, '42; Vice-President (Committees), MATT WEIS, '57. The newly elected Board Members were: JIM MANNION, 
NORTH FLORIDA—The new president of the Jacksonville Club is Gerald B. John­son, '50, four year track monogranuner and former Air Force officer, who has scr\*cd as vice-president and secretary. Branch manager of the Johnson Ser\'icc Co., Gerald is active in the Jaycces and various charities. He and wife Earline have four children — Gerald, 5; Marian, 4; DaWd, 2; and Charles, 1. Other officers are John Corrigan and Sam Lawler. 
52; BILL HORMBERG, '43; HANK DAHM, '42, ^ 
and MATT WEIS, '57. 
On July 7 the St. Louis Club held its annual Summer Gct-Togethcr and Sports Night at Cr>-stal Lake Country- Club, with many Sports person­alities including Coach HUGH DEVORE, in at-, tendance. The day activities started with golf and swimming, and were concluded with some 200 alumni and friends attending the banquet which «-as held In the evening. BOB CONCANNON, HANK DAH.M, BOB CHICKEY and DON RATCHFORD handled arrangements. ^ 
—ROBERT CHICKEY, '54, Scc>-. 

St. Petersburg-Tampa 
The Florida West Coast Club was invited to partidpate in the Florida State Convention of Notre Dame Clubs in Fort Lauderdale on the weekend of April 29. 
Salina 
TIic Notre Dame Alumni Club of Salina madt]^ a $100 contribution to Mar>*mount College in^^ Salina to help pay for the cost of the school's new electronic language laboratory. In announcing the gift, TOM KENNEDY, president of the Club, congratulated ^fa^)'mount for Its accomplishments. "The language laboratory is an indication of the growth and progress of ^larymount, and we are happy to be able to help out," he said. In ex­pressing her thanks, Sister Etta Louise, president of >far)'mount said, '*It Is a real honor to have the Notre Dame Club listed among our Friends of ^far^inount. 
The Salina Notre Dame Club, though relatively small in numbers, has been an active one the past^^ few years. The club's activities have includct^^ sponsoring special trips to Notre Dame football games. J 
Current members of the club besides Ken-] ncdy, include ALBERT SCHWARTZ, NORB SKELLEY, JLM FOLEY, BOB McAULIFFE, AL NfcLEAN, FRED CANS, TOM FOOTE, JOHN 1 a\RLIN, SR., JOHN CARLIN, JR., CLEO MELCHER, and I^VRRY ^VENTZ. 
Three members of the club are actively asso­ciated with Mar>Tnount. .AL SCHWARTZ is chairman of the lay adnsorj* board and JIM FOLEY is a member of the boar^. TOM FOOTE^ Is director of public relations for the college. ^ P 
Marymount is a Catholic women's college con­ducted by the Sisters of St. Joseph of Concordia. TIic college has an enrollment of about 500. 
—TONf FOOTE 

San Antonio 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by ^ the San Antonio, Tex., Club on June 9 with a cocktail party and buffet at the San Antonio Counlr>' Club. 
San Diego { 
FATHER O'DONNELL, accompanied by DICK BOWES, did us a great good at Universal Notre Dame Night on April 26. The medium of his presentation was a sparkling, engaging, humorous and entertaining narrative. But don't for a mo­ment think that the medium submerged the mes­sage it carried. Tlic \-arious monslgnori, three in lieu of the bishop, could not help but realize that Notre Dame stands for a graduate intellec­tuality that is purposefully alive. Lay apostolate. Great Books, C.F.M. — these are rather withering on the \ine here, and Father underlined them with a real resounding stamp of approval and encour-^^ agcment. ^ ? 
BISHOP CHARLES BUDDY vras named N.D. i: Man of the Year. ^.": 
MIKE GARRITY frt»m Chicago attended the 0. dinner, being here in San Diego after having at- ^v^ tended a mathematics seminar at Univ. of Calif, 'i'-:­He u-as \isiting here with CHARLIE BELL, ij mathematics staff at San Diego State College, and -'i-\ they attended together. Total attendance was 54. \ Treasurer DON LOPKER was vcr>- sure of this :»• attendance figure, because it was two more tlian^^ he had receipts for; and he still isn't too sure^P. about where the eight dollars will come from. f'-. MSGR. FRANCIS OTT, Club Chaplain, mam-; .^ taincd his very faithful record of attendance and f.-.f was with us for the evening. Tlie committee for -K-i the event was the 1960 officers, which bolted dou*n C -^ to DICK ^L\RTIN carrying 90% of the rcsponsi- :; bility. r ^ 
—WALT TROY, Sccy.^^ 

EL PASO—^Members celebrating the tenth group picture on 
San Fernando Valley 

At a meeting called March 30, 1960, the Alumni in the San Fernando Valley elected the following officers: JOHN' N. LEONARD, president; ED­^WARD J. DOWLING, vice-prcs.; GEORGE ISCHNEIDER, secj.-trcas. Directors are WALTER 
J. COVINGTON and GEORGE O'BRIEN (3 years); DR. MAURICE J. REGAN and MAURICE TOMBR.\GEL (2 vcars); LESTER FLEWELLING and JAMES HATFIELD (1 year). 
A second meeting was held at the Knights of CoIunibiLs hall in Van Nuys, Calif., on xVpril 16, which was attended bv 35-40 alumni. The attend­ance u-as credited to GEORGE SCHNEIDER, our Secretary-Treasurer, who had publicity in the local papers, tlie Los .-Vngeles Catholic "Tidings" and many church Sunday bulletins. 
Three committees were authorized and filled 

^completely by volunteers. The three committees: TIic Constitution Committee, the Programming Committee, and the Barbecue Committee. 
Annual dues of $5.00 was voted, and meetings arc to be bi-monthly. 
—JOHN LEONARD, '34, Pros. 

San Gabriel Valley 
Directors of the San Gabriel Valley Club gath­ered in earlv April and adopted a constitution. The board includes JOHN FRxVMPTON, WIL­LIAM HUSTON, PAUL KISZELI, HENRY 
fcPARADIS, PAUL ROONEY, PAUL RUBLEY. 
'BE N SALVATY, W. R. SIDENFADEN and A. TORRIBIO. The directors elected BEN SALVATY president, PAUL KISZELI secrctar>-. and AL TOR­RIBIO to the combined office of vice-president and treasurer. 
The first social event was held on July 16 at the home of former L.A. Clidi president DON BRiVDY. It featured a buffet, refrcslmients and \*arious sports like swimming, tennis, badminton, etc. PAUL RUBLY helped the officers in ar­ranging this event. An important event, announced for August 27, 
kwill be described next issue. 
Schenectady 
REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., was the guest speaker at the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner sponsored by the Schenectady Club at the Ritz Restaurant on April 22. D^VNIEL P. BARLOW was dinner chairman and toastniastcr. 
|Scranfon 
At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Scranton the following officers were elected: President —TOM COMERFORD, *42; Vice-Presi­dent-DIC K MARSH/VLL, '51; Secretary— DICK JORD/\N, '51; Treasurer-JOE McDADE, '53. Universal Notre Dame Night was held in conjunc­tion u'ilh Wilkes-Barre on April 22nd. 
—RICHARD J. JORDAN, Secy. 

 anniversary of the N, D. Club of El Paso tore themseivcs away from wives and guests for this  Universal Notre Dame Night at the new Hilton Inn, El Paso, Texas. 
South Carolina 
REV. RICHARD GRIMM, C^.C , was guest 

speaker from tlie University at tlie Universal Notre 
Dame Night Dinner of the N-D- Club of South 
Carolina in Charleston on April 26. The alTair 
at Lord f\shle\' Coach House was also attended 
by BISHOP P.\UL HALLINxVN, *32, President 
JOE JUDGE and Secrctarv-Trcasurer JERRY 
MERZ arranged the meeting. 
HARRY E. SMITH, '57, a recent arrival in 

South Carolina. %vas welcomed into the Club at 
the meetinu. 
—GER.\LD F. MERZ, Secv.-Treas. 

South Central Wisconsin 
DR. WILLI.VM BURKE, Notre Dame student advisor, was guest speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the South Central Wiscon­sin Club in Madison. Wis., on May 2. arranged 'bv retiring President THO.MAS W. FROST, '30. Installed were llie new olliccrs: F. L-AWRENCE LENZ, '49, president; FR.\NK D. HA.MILTON, 
•30. vice-president: and BERN.ARD S. MIX­STACKI, '50. secretar\--lreasurer. 
Southeastern Iowa 
Our Organization consists of 15 couples in Bur­

lington, Iowa and five couples from Ft. Madison, 
Iowa. We meet once a month for dinner, usually 
at the Burlington Golf Club. We had one Special 
event, March 17th, guest night dinner-dance, and 
sixty attended. During the summer we have pic­
nics which usuallv- include the whole family. 
Our present President is Mr. LOUIS L.-\UTH, 

JR.; Secretar>% Mrs. JOHN A. DAILEY, JR.; 
and Treasurer. .Mrs. HAROLD RILEY. 
-(.Mrs.) JOHN A. DAILEY, JR., Sec>-. 

Southeastern Wisconsin 
" REV. GEORGE BERNARD. C.S.C., vice-presi­dent for student affairs at Notre Dame, u'as hon­ored guest and speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner of the Southeastern Wisconsin Club in Racine on April 19. 
South Jersey 
On April 21 the South Jersey Club held a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in Camden, N.J., with REV. GLENN BOARM/VN, C.S.C., 
N.D. prefect of religion, as guest speaker. Officers elected for 1960-61 are: THOMxVS J. AUCHTER, '50, president; JAMES B. aVRSON, '56, \ice­
presldent; JOHN J. CHASE (associate), secretar%­trcasurer; WILLIAM T. aVRSON, JR., THOMAS MARTIN and CHRISTOPHER C. REITZE, direc­tors; and REV. JOSEPH .M. HAYDEN, '44, cliap­lan. President .-Vuchter returned to the campus in June to attend the tenth reunion of the Class of '50. 
Spokane 
Members of our Club, and their wives, were invited by Spokane Chapter, University of Port­land .Alumni ^\ssocbtion. to attend their annual dinner wliich preceded the basketball game between Portland and Gonzaga University, on February 29th. The-''very enjoyable affair was held in Hotel Spokane, with FATHER PAUL E. \VALD­
SCH^^DT, N.D. '42, \icc-president of University oi: Portland, as guest speaker. Complimentary tickets to the game were distributed by Rudy Melone, Portland Alumni /Vssoclation Director, and as a fitting climax to the e\'ening Portland won, 78 to 73, In a thriller. The following N.D. Club members and their wives attended: MONK ALBO, '35; DR. BOB AL\HER, '35; DR. CUR­R.VN HIGGINS, '49; JOE ROWAN, '50; BERXIE S.MYTH, '55; GARY NfYERS, '59; and JOE WALSH, '14. 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Spokane observed Unl­
. versal Notre Dame Night on Monday. May 2nd, in the palatial Etlzabetlian Room of the Daven­port Hotel. A record breaking attendance by Club members, their wives and friends, together with the gold and blue table decorations, provided a fitting background for naming His Excellency, BISHOP BERNARD J. TOPEL, the Club's Man of the Year. Bishop Topcl is the Club's most distinguished alumnus, ha\'ing received in 193S the degree of Ph.D. He was the speaker of the evening and dwelt on the real necessity of Increased missionary effort by both clergy and laity, par­ticularly with respect to South .-Vmerlca. 
Tlie Alumni /Xssoclation's scroll, beautifully en­grossed with the following citation, was presented to the Bbhop. **who has by his dynamic leader­ship in religious affairs at home and abroad, and devoted service to the people of his diocese, exem­plified In high degree the Ideals of a true Notre Dame man." A cticck to aid the Bishop In his own missionary work was given to him bv the Club. 
The presentation was made by THOM/\S A. E. LiVLLY, '06, senior alumnus of the Club. In keeping with the theme of "The Notre Dame Family," special guests were Very Rev. Francis 
D. ^faste^son, S.J., Rector, and Rev, Gordon E. Toner, S.J., Principal of Gonzaga Preparatorv* School. There are five Prep graduates now en­rolled at Notre Dame. Local alumni of University of Portland attended the afTair In token of the Holy Cross Fathers' government of both institu­tions. Our neighboring St. Mar\*'s College was also represented by local alumnae. 
Retiring President MONK ALBO, '35, left nothing to be desired as master of ceremonies. He also introduced the following ncw]v elected Club officers: President, CHARLES A. NL\RQUELING, '50; Vice-President, ROBERT F. MERZ, '47; and Secretary-Treasurer, JOSEPH M. WALSH, '14. 
—JOE WALSH. Sec>-. 

Terre Haute 
The Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute closed a banner year with two major social events. 
Under the able direction of Co-chairmen RAY­.MOND J. KEARXS and JOE HIGGINS the First Annual Notre Dame Club Smoker was held on the evening of Febniary 19, ICcO. Approximately 
150 men thoroughly enjoyed a.i c%-ciung of so-
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 43 
cializini^ and 'Shiiiiip cookird in bt-cr."* IlonnrccI guc-st for liic rvfiiiiii.' was DON POLL, hackficld coach of (iie Fiiiliiiiii; Irish. Don UJLS joined bv BERT METZGER, the X.D. AU-Aimricaii 'uaich chanii c!iaid'' of ihi- Rockiio era and luo other former \N.D . AII-Ameiican^. LEO IJARNHORST and JACK ELDER. Tlie evtiiim; wa-a hnulinii success. 
Tlie Finah- of the Social Season wa> he!d «»n April 23, l!'*i(l when Annual Notre Dame Nii,'ht wa.s observed in the lileu Room of the Terre Ilautc House. ."»() N(»lif Dauie mrn, wives and Rueais were hoMi-d by MYROS J. liVSUY, chairman of the affair. Cocktails were- served at seven and dinner followed an hour later. The club was privilci^i-d and delighted to havtr as piincipal speaker f<.r the rv.nini;, THONLAS TIMOTHY MURI'HV, assistant dean of the Cofh^e of Coin­rnerce. Dean Murphy fascinated I lie members of his audience with his piojections for the future of None D;uue. .-Vs one of the ini-hlichts of tht cvenint; the Notre Dauie Chib of Terre Haute named its ".Votre Dame .Man of the Vear for 1960." This year's recipient of the coveted awaid was JAMES E. SULLIV.VN, h)cal attorney, who graduated from the Notre Dame Law SCIHKJI in the Class oi lil'iT. JOHN F. V. MURPHY, I93'.t ^lan of the Year, made this year's presenlation. 
llic j;avei «>I the olhce of I'lesideiil for the com­ing year was turned over to P.\UL .\L\RIETTA. *46, bv outnoini; President RICHARD KELLY, '43. Other oilicei* installed were: CHARLES .METZGER, -47, vice-president; JOHN J. BOYER, 

•49, secretar^•: JA.MES E. SULLIV.VN. L'57, treasurer; and FR. .\NTHONY WEBER, C.S.C., chaplain. 
The incominj; president announced plans for a year of vliiorous activity for the new Noire Dame Club year of which you will be hearing in the near ftituie. 
Toledo 
The Toledo Club Celebrated Univeisal Notre Dame Niiiiit on .April 19 at the Secor Hotel, with ED. KRAUSE, N.D. athletic director, as h<HH»re(l (luesl. rR.\NK GILHOOLEY was toastinaster. and the conunittee under general chairman RICH.ARD COL.\SURD inchided JOHN CELUST.V (ban­quet), TOM FRANCIS (quests), DICK KOPF and **RED" S.MITH (tickets), JOE KALBAS and JI.M MALONE (reser^-ations), and GEORGE KORHU.MEL (publicity). 

Tri C'ifies 
On May 1 the Tri Cities Club held a Com­munion Breakfast in Davenport, Iowa, at whlcli the KUfi-l speaker was DR. U'lLLIA.M BURKE, director of the University's ollice of the student advisor. 
In lecent electh.ns WILLIAM J. L.AFF.\N was elected president. CARL A. LIEBSCHER, vice-president, and WILLIA.M L. McCABE, secretary-treasurer. New directors arc DR. ROBERT FOLEY, THOMAS BRHT, FRANK C. ARENA^ ADRIAN F. CU.MMLNGS and BERNARD J. DWTER. 
—WILLIA.M L. .\fcCABE, Secy-Treas. 

Tucson 
.A much enlivened Tucson .Alumni Club played the gracious and gratt-fuJ hoyt to Its most ht>m>rvti guest, FATHER HESBURGH, at a special dinner In the Pliinecr Hotel last -March 15. 
Father Hesburgli \v:is one of a group of dis­tlnguislu'd edncati>rs in Tticson to attend the dedi ^ cation of the Kilt Peak Xaiional Ohservat<try'. The Obser\-ator>' will eventually house the best possible Instrimu-nts for obser\'ation of space prob­lems to l>c found anywhere in the world. 
.About KM) people gathered in the main ballioom of ttie Pioneer Hotel. "I'hey Inctiided Tucson alutnni and their wives, local and regional Callu>lic dignitaries, the mayor of Tucson and special friends of Notre Dauie. 
In an impromptu talk. Father Hesburgli ex­plained to the guests the importance of the new Obser\atoiy. 
In greater detail and witli much fondness, ht^k spoke of the fine grouth-sirIde> the University has accomplished over the p.-isi 10 years and some of lis piojected thinking for the years ahead. 
Host at the alumni dinner wxs JIM DURBIN, manager of the Pioneer Hotel and a -Votre Dame graduate. 
TI.M KING was the amiable master of cere-

MEN OF THE YEAR—Top Row (I. to r.): New Jersey's Joseph M. Byrne, Jr. (center, with the Four Horsemen); Tulsa's Robert* 
M. Siegfried (left, with Father Hcsburgh); Calumet's Jaines H. McShane (left, with Rev. Paul Biechner, C.S.C, and Bill O'Connor). Middle Row (1. to r.): Dallas' Jake Reichenstein (center, with Lank Smith and John Moran); New York's Stephen **Bud'* Mulvey (2nd from left, with Hon. Owen McGivcrn, Bill Cuddy, and Rev, Edmund Joyce, C.S.C.); Fort Lauderdale's John Callan (center, with Rev. Richard Grinnn, C.S.C., and Prcs. Richard Whalen.). Bottom Row (1. to r.): Peoria's Ralph E. Johnston (center, with Maurice Cicciarclli and Father Joyce); Cleveland's John P. Chapla (left, with John J. Reidy); Indianapolis' John C. O'Connor (left with Patrick 
Fisher); Western Washington's Joe Lotta (left, with Emmett Lenihan). 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
^:nonifs of ihc evening. 
This, affair was a wontlerfnl sprini-boaid into a serifs of niceiini?s and events iiou- being planned by the Tucson X<)tre Dame Alnnmi CUih. 
New Chib oliiceis are ROBERT O'CALLA­GHAN, president; PAUL MATZ, \-ice-president: BURT APKER, trea^nrer: and MIKE BROWN, Secretary. 
—BUDDY GOLDMAN 

Tulsa 
« 
FATHER HESBURGH was tlie prinrlpal speaker at I hi; Univt-rsa! Notre Datne Night banquet on April 2(i. His topic of "academic aciiicvcment" was oi partirniar intere>t to the h'cal alttinni. During the la>l ten vrars the Cbib has math­tbt: >cbi»Iar'.Iiip program its main project and has grantetl substantial aid to fouileen students, five of wliom are now at tlie University. 
Three hundred ahmitii and friends of the L'ni­vei>ity attended tlie baiuiuet at Southern Hills Counliy Clul). Special effort was made to include proniiiunt educators throiighoul the state and local commnnitv leaders with the group. BISHOP VIC­
^TO R J. REED of Oklahoma City and Tulsa was Wan honored i;uest. 
ROBERT M . SIEGFRIED W:LS named '.Voire Dame Man of llie Year" in a special pie^enialioji ceremony at the close of the dinner. 
President JACK .MOHATF extended the Clubs welcome to the guests. P.\T M.\LLOY w.^ to;vsl­niasier for the evening. General cbairuian for the event «as IJOB SIEGFRIED, assi-ted bv HILL SHEEHAN, ED LEROL'X, BARNEY SULLIVAN, BOB SHEEHAN and BILL WARREN, JR. 
—BOB JONES. Secy. 

Twin Cities 
Twin Cities alumni opened their I%0 .ictivilies ^wii h the election i>f new officers and a new board of directors. Elected to the board were ROBERT 
E. CULLIG.\N, JOSEPH W. McM.VNUS, THO.MAS K. REIS, THO.\L\S P. .XKDO.VALD, 
J. D. YELL.\ND, J. PETER RITTEN. GEORGE 
F. HEIMEL, JR., GERALD E. McK.AY and JA.\H:S A . BYRNE, who will serve a5 director of the Ijoard. 
,\I>o elected bv memljers of the club were JOSEI»H T. O'.NEILL as president. EDWARD 
S. HAGER'n' as vice-president. EDWARD J. GORDON as secretar>% and PETIER J. a\.\NON as treasurer. 
Since tlu'ir election, the (dficers and directors 
&liavi: held several nu'etings and are planning a considerably expanded program of activities for the coming year. The year's program of activities officially opened witli the celebration of the llUil* Universal .N'olie Danie Night, which was held April 27 at the Nicollet Hotel in Minneapolis. Guest speaker for the evening was MSGK. GEORGE E. RYAN, pastor of the St. Paul Cathe­dral, ivJio gave a ver\- descriptive view of tbe Vaticaii and the Papacy. 
This event was followed by an ",-\fternoon Tea Dance" held at the St. Paul P»Md and Yacht Club on Jtme ">. 
-EDUARD J. coRDO.v, Seo. 

•Virgi inia 
Vlnjinia abirnni of the Universitv of Noire Dame bonoied DR. FRANK R. KELLY* SR., by award­ing him a *cniJJ nariiiitg him .Voire Dame Man of the Year. The award was presented by CH.ARLES 
R. UiFRATI'A, chairman of the .Award Committee, at ihe local club's dinner at the Rotunda Club celebrating Universal .Voire Dame Night. 
Dr. Kelly graduated front the University of Mlrliigan Dental School In ID09, and has prac­ticed deiitistr\" in Richmond contimicmsly since 1910. Long known .as one of Notre Dame's Sub­way .AInmni. the award winner has developed 
• close ties to the L'niversity which h.as now offi­cially adopted him. through his three sons, all of whom are Notre Dame graduates. 
The award also cited Dr. Kelly as an ouLstand­ing Catliolic layman, known for his many contri­butions to St. Joseph's Home for the .Aged, better kiutwn :LS The Little SIsleis' Home. 
Principal speaker at the <limier was REV. RICH­ARD GRI.M.M, C.S.C., religious superior of the Notre Dame faculty. Introduced by .ANDREW 
E. O'KEEI-FE, outgoing president. Father Grimm spoke informally on plans and policIe:> of the 
• Universitv. He stated that the aim of the present administration, like that of F.ATHER EDWARD SORLV when he founded the University in 1844. is to make Notre Dame the outstanding Catholic University of the world. He described plans for improving the graduate school as a means of at­tracting outstanding scholars in many fields. Only by providing an atmosphere of research. lie said, can ihc University compete with State-supported schools for the best in teachers. Durini; a ques­
tion period which followed his talk. Father Grimm 
offered his personal prediction that Notre Dame's 
1960 fi»i>tbalt season witf see a record of 8 wins and 
2 losses. 
.-\t a brief business meeting which followed the 
dinner. DR. CHARLF-S R. RILEY was elected 
president f<)r the coming vear. Other officers 
elected weie: E. MILTO.V FARLEY IH, vice-
president: DR. FRA.VK KELLY, JR., secretary-; 
and FRANK J. STUMPF, treasurer. 
CHARLES R. MORRISON was chairman of the 
committee arranging the affair. 
Washington, D.C. 
The Wasbiimion Club tlecided lo forego a St. 
Patrick's Day Party and to hold an electitin of 
officers in conjunction with the .Annual Family 
Coumuniion lireakf.ist on March 27 at Holv Cross 
C<.llege. Tlie speaker was the HON. J. VINXEN*T 
BURKE, neneral counsel of the U. S. Department 
of Defend-. J. CLIFFORD LETCHER wxs chair­
man. Elected to oliice for the next Clu!) vear 
weie ROBERT N. HLTCHISON, president: JOHN 
WOOD, vice-president: J.VMF^S L. SCHRADER, 
secielarM JOSEPH P. MALONEY, treasurer: 
JOSEI»H L. FrrZ.\L\URICE and WILLIAM B. 
.\HDDENDORF, directors. 
The srientific. educational, cultural, patriotic, 
spiritual, and other achievements of the L'nlver­
sity of .Notre Dame were haileil at tlie 37ib annu.al 
L'niveisal Notre Dame .Night cvlvhratton uitli a 
dinner April 2jth at the Sherat<)n-Carlton Hotel. 
Several hundred \\'asbington area Notre Dame 
alnnmi and their guests participated in the ob­
ser\-ance. one <»f \M attended by nearly 30,fX)0 
other Noire Dame alinuui tlirougliout the world, 
on the same evening and for the same purpose. 
f:ueM speakers were JOH.N A. JOHNSO.N, gen­
eral counsel of ihe National .Aeronautics and Space 
Admiiiistrati(ui. ubo discussed the "important as­
pects €>f the nation's space exploration pn»gram" 
and F.VniER JOHN H. WII^O.N, C.S.C.. direc­
tor of the Notre Dame Fiuindatiim. who discussed 
the educational achievements of the Universitv. 
JOILV L. KENKEL and WALTER H. JOHN­
SON, JR.. uere co-chairmen of tliis affair. Tlie 
retiring club president. JOSEPH L. FITZ­
.MAURICE, inducted into office ROBERT N. 
HUTCHINSON and other new officers of the 
Notie Dame Club of \\'asIiini;Ion. 
Not.ibles inclii(h-d among the miests were Sena­
tor A. F. SCHOEPPEL, Congrosman WILLI.AM 
E. NHLLER, Congressman DONALD T. McGIN-LEY and ROBERT E. LEE. Commissioner of F.C.C. 
Most recent events have been a meeting on June 8 at the Sheralon-Carlton at which plans were made for a group excursion to the N.D. Class Reunions: the .Annual Retreat. June 10-12 at LoyoJa-on-lbe-I'olom.'ic Retreat House, with VAL DE.ALE .as chairman: and a Garden Cockt.aII Party in Chevy Chase on June 26. 
 Westem Washington 
Tlie Noiie Danre Club of Western Washington elected the Board of Directors for the coming vear. Those elected were CHARLES L.ACUGNA, '47: PHIL HOSTER.MAN. '37; AL TOTH, '49: TO.\r .\r.AV. "Jj; and ED BROU-.N, '.17. TED CUM.MI.VGS. '49. the retiring club president, and CHARLES OSBORNE. '.'i8. remained e\-olficio on the board. The Board of Directors in turn elected the foliowlmr clul) tiffirers for the coming two vears: JOE LOTFA. al. president: FRED HOO­VER, AX vice-president: TO.M .M.AY, '55, secre­tar>-: and .MORRIE SCHAFER, '37. treasurer. 
The announcement of these officers was made to the members and their guests at the Notre Dame Night banquet held at the Benjamin Frank­lin Hotel in Seattle on April 20. 19G0. The guest of liitnor and principal speaker was JOE KU­HARICH. EM.MET LENIHAN, '15. chairman of the Man oi the Year Commltiee. presented JOE LOTT.A, '51, with a plaque naming him the Notre Dame .Man of the Vear for 1960. Joe had serAed as cbaii^nan for the Notre D.aine Night committee and was the retiring vice-president of the club. BEN LENOUE. "M. the master of ceremonies announced that it w.xs the largest group to attend the banquet. 175 alumni and friends. 
TO.M M.AY was chairman of the Annual Smoker at the Naval Station on .Augtisl 16. H.ARRV STUHLDREHER was the featured guest. 
—THO.MAS P. MAY, '55, Sec%-. 

West Virginia 
Tljc Notre Dame Cinb of West Virginia observed Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday. May 2, 
with a banquet at the Press Club in Charleston. 
The affair was handled under the able leadership 
of President JOHN KAEM.MERER, '53, with 45 
persons in attendance. Elections for officers for 
the coming year were held and the following were 
selected: RUDOLPH DI TR.AP.VNO, president; 
RICHARD SHAFER, '57, vice-president; TOM 
KENNELL, '56, secretar\'-treasurer. After a short 
"pep talk" given by CV REICH about the im­
portance of the new University Library, a cash 
collection was taken for that fund. 
A recent loss from our local group was COR­
NELIUS "CORKY" DES.MOND, who was trans­
ferred from Charleston lo Osstning. N.V., where 
he will work in the Union Carbide Labs in West­
chester County. Recent births In the area wcrer 
a boy to .Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD SHAFER, '57, 
on Jan. 7; a girl to Mr. and Mrs. JOE FALLOX, 
'50, on Dec. 24: a bov to .Mr. and Mrs. WEBSTER. 
ARCENErVUX, '54, on April 30. 
—THO.M.AS E. KENNELL, Secv-Treas. 

Wichita 
Rccfntlv fifctfd ofiiciTs of tlie Notre Datne Club of Wicliita. Kansas, arc JOHN L. \S'E!G.\XD, 
•54, presWent; ROBERT G. STARR, '39, Wct­prisidiiit; and EDWARD P. FRAXKEX, '49, sccre­lar>'-trea5ijriT. 
Wilkes-Barre 
More than 60 members and gne^ts from the Wilkcs-Barre and Scranton Xotrc Dame Clubs were in attendance at the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in the dining room of the Wilkcs­IJarre-Scranton .Airport at .Vvoca. I'a.. on .April 20. Cuesi from the University- uas REV. GLENM BO.AR.%L\.N, C_S.C., prefect of religion. Principals included R.\YMO.VD J. SOBOTA, president of the Wilkes-Barre Club: THO.M.AS P. CO.MER­FORD, president of the Scranton Club; D.AVID V,AI..AIK, general chairman and toastmastcr; DA.VIEL K. DALEV, dinner co-chairman. Other guests included REV. JOH.V .\IARTI.V, director of .athletics at West Side Central Catholic High, Wilkes Barre; REW THOM.AS J. McCOR.MICK oi Blessed S.acrament Church. Miners Mills; and REV. GEORGE P. I1E.VAGL1A, C.S.C., president of King's College, Wilkes-Barre. 
Youngstown 
BISHOP JA.MES W. .\IAI.O.VE, airsiliarv- bishop and educational director of the Diocese of A'oungs­towii, was guest speaker on Universal Notre Dame .Night .April 2G at the Voungstown Club. GEORGE 
H. KELLEV was toistmaster. REV. DONALD 
R. RE,AG.A.V gave the invocation and REV. WIL­LIAM A. HUGHES the benediction. President THOM.AS KERRIGA.N" extended greetings, anti the co-chairmen were W.ALTER I. R.AUH ami PAUL S7.Y.\L\.NSKI. 
The Golf Stag had .AHKE \'A.V HUFFEL as chainnan. LOU COLLER.A.N, AL GUAR.\IERI, DO.V HELTZEL and CHARLIE McCRUDDEN handling tickets for the June 9th outing at Tnim­bull Counlr>' Club. Warren, Ohio. 
—BILL BARD, Secy. 

OREGON—Universal Notre Dame Night guest Joe Kuharich is flanked (from left) by officers Charles Slatt, Pete Sanclro<:k and Tom Magee at Oregon Club cere­monies in Portland. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 45 
-Mr. and Mrs. JERO.ME J. KLELN", '37, a son,* Steven Joseph, Jan. II, I960. 
CUsSES 
Miss Nanc%- Ellen Canning and EDWARD H. 
Engagements 

SHALHOUB, '38, Tenafly, N.J., June 23, 1960. Miss Xano- Steinbrunner and JOHN J. BURKE, iriss Marl' Eli/abcth Kramer and JOHN S. 
JR., '39, South Bend, Ind., -May 7, 1960. 
DALY, '30. ' Miss Jean Elizabeth Luccy and Charles H. East­Miss Patricia Carlev Johnson and R. WILLIAM erly, '60, Kankakee, 111., June 4, 1960. 
RAUCH, JR., '30. 
Miss Bonnie Lcc Hawkins and JOHN V. THIL-NUss Barbara Ann Bostock and DR. GEORGE MAN, '60, South Bend, Ind., June 23, I960. 

M. HALEY, '32. Miss Judith Ann Flannigan and JAMES W. BARAN-i', '53. Births Miss Plivllis M. Mollc and JOHN W. ANDER­
.Mr. and Mrs. JOHN N. CACKLEY, '37, aSON, '34. 

daughter, Frances, Marcli 1, 1960. 
Miss Pamt-Ia C. Wvlic and JOHN T. SULLI­Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH HARRINGTO.V, '39, aVAN, 34. 

son, Desmond Finian, April 27, I960. 
Miss Dorothy Marie Ernst and CHARLES J. 

Mr. and ilrs. JULIAN PLEASAN-pS, '39. aGULDE, '55. 
daughter, April 10, 1960. 
Miss Rcgecn Lcnorc Runes and THOMAS P. 

Mr. and -Mrs. ROCH LePAGE, '40, a daughter, KIERNAN, '5G. 
Margaret Jane, Marcli 18, 1960. 
Miss Pristilla Marie Broun and DANIEL R. 

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. DALY, '41, a son, LIDDY, '3G. 
April 18, 1960. 
Miss Rosemai^' Kirdiner and FIRST LIEUT. 

Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN H. CRAH,\N, '44, a son, IDWARD J. ROBINSON, '5G. 
Timothv Cummings, February 6, 1960. 
Miss Kathn-n Elizahctli Glarin and JOSEPH F. 

Mr. and Mrs. WILBUR DOLL, '44, a sou. 
•GAGLIARDI, JR., '58. 
John Micliael, June 19, I960. 
Miss Lucia Maria Gonzales and DAVID W. 

Dr. and Mrs. EDWARD M. SCOTT, '46, aJAMES, .IR., '59. 
son, Timothy Albert, June 20, 1960. 
Miss Georgiannc Bankv and SECOND LT. 

Mr. and Mrs. FR^VNK A. BRADY, JR., '47, aJAMES P. JOCK, '59. 
son, Francis Aloysius III, June 13, 1960. 
Miss Man- -Ann VanWynsbcrghe and MICHAEL Mr. and Mrs. JAMES L. FERSTEL, '48, a son, •McTIGHE, '59. 

James Patrick, March 23, I960. 
Xriss irar>- Jo Click and JA.MES L. KUBIAK, .Mr. and Mrs. HENRY S. ROM.4NO, 48, a

-60. 
daugliter, .Ann Marie, February 11, I960. 
Miss Dorothy L. Hodischwender and A. X'ER-Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. KESSING, '49, aNON SHANNON, JR., '60. 

son, Joseph Martin, April 7, 1960. Mr. and Mrs. T. M. (MILT) KUPFER, '49. a daughter, Jane Elizabeth, Marcli 21, 1960. 
Marriages 

Mr. and Mrs. CH.\RLES J. PERRIN, '50, a son, June 12, I960. 
Miss Rita ScIiaclTner and DANIEL J. GUINEY, .Mr. and Mrs. WILLUM ROGERS, JR., '50, a•43, Garden Citv, L. I., N.Y.. June 28, 1960. 

son, John Michael. 
Ladv Tane Binghani and THOMAS D. GRIF­Mr. and Mrs. R,VYMOND J. SULLIVAN, '30, aFIN, '47. Ev-anston. III.. June 18. 1960. 

daughter, Kathleen Anne, June 2, 1960. 
Miss Dorothv Mae Regard and ROBERT L. 

Mr. and .Mrs. WALTER ZENNER, '50, a daugh­PFEIL, '49. South Bend, Ind., June 25. I960. 
ter, Margaret Mary Magdalen, Marcli 23, I9G0. 
Miss Caroh-n Barbara Bennett and ROBERT F. 

.Mr. and Mrs. ERWIN H. BRENDEL, '51, aHOCHXLW, '50, South Bend, Ind., June 22. I960. 
son, James Richard, Marcli 31, I960. 
Miss Ann L\*nn McCollam and GENE R. PENDL, '52. Solith Bend, Ind., June 18. 1960. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. CAREY, '31, a Miss Elizabeth Jan Watt and NORMAN N. 
daughter, Elizabeth Tlieresc, June 8, 1960. FELTES, JR., '53, London, England, December 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE J. J.ANSEN, '51, a son, 29. 1960. 
Kenneth Vincent, March 22, 1960. Miss Carol Coglan and JAMES J. McMON-
Mr. and Mrs. GERALD A. KERNS, '51, a AGLE, '53, Cap Ferrat, France, ^ray 2. I960. 
daughter, Trac\- Ann, June 23, 1960. Miss Virginia Marie Baru:ald and JOHN H. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M G. KLEE, '31, a OGDEN, '53. Garv-. Ind., June 4, I960. 
daughter, Marv Louise, Mav 13, 1960. Miss Phvllis MadcK-n Mollc and JOHN W. AN­
Mr. and Mrs. ALL^VN J. POWERS, '51, a DERSON III, '54. New York City. June II. 1960. 
daughter, Christine Mar^-, July 11, I960. Miss Linda Lolli and WALTER &\SHMAN, 
Mr. and Mis. CHARLES FALKENBERG, JR., '34, Peoria, 111., June 11, 1960. 
'52, a daughter, Susan Marie, Marcli II, I960. Miss Yolanda Margaret Toinaiuoli and THOMx\S  and JOHN J. SCHICKEL, a
-Mr. Mrs. '52, 
son. Mark Jerome, April 13. 1960. Miss Judith Euitenia Grote and CAPT. DONALD 
R. HOLLIGER, '54. Chicago, III., June 18. I960. 
Mr. and -Mrs. W1LLIA.M BERRY, '53, a daugh­
ter. Mars- Suzanne, April 22, 1960. Miss Marv ;\licc Fitzgerald and JOSEPH P. 
J. LOGAN, '54. Poitiers, France, Marcli 13. 1960. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN CORRIG^VN, '53, a son. SHELLEY, JR., '54. Neu- Rodiclle, N.Y., Mav 21. 
Peter Joseph, Marcli 24, 1960. I960.. 
.Mr. and Mrs. C. JEROME SMITH, '33, a son, Miss Dierdre Marceil Bishop and KEVIN T. 
Peter Jerome, November 1, 1959. O'DON'NELL, '33, Washington, D. C , June II, 
Mr. and \rrs. MILTON J. BEAUDINE, '54, a 1960. 
son, Robert Francis, June 18, 1960. Miss Grctchcn Roscmar\- Sasclibach and JOSEPH 
Mr. and Mrs. THO.\HS J. &\MPBELL, '54, a 
daughter, Maureen /\nn, Jan. 31, I960. Miss -Man- Adrle Heiskell and ANDREW W. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL J. SCHWEIKERT, '54, BORACZEK, '56. Tuckalioe. N.Y.. June 4, 1960. a son, in June. Miss Ida May LeBlanc and THEODORE R. 
L. SHILTS, '33. South Bend. Ind., June 18. 1960. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. WICKHAM, '54, a SE\'ERIN, '56, Monclon, N. B., Canada, June 11, 
daughter, Susan Marie, March 1, 1960. 1960. Mr. and Mis. MAURICE J. CICCIARELLI, Miss Mar\- Teresa Greaney and JAMES R. FEES, '33, a son, June 13, 1960. '57, Amcsburv, Ma.ss., Nov. 7, 1939. Mr. and Mrs. CARL F. PETERS, '33, a daugh­Miss Mar>- Ann Mericic and JEREMIAH E. ter, Juditli Eileen, Mav 29, I960. 
MURPHY, JR., '57, Indianapolis, Ind., June 25, Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. ADAMS, '36, a 1960. daughter, Tlieresa Jeannine, June 18, 1960. . Miss Marilyn A. Ash and JOHN L. RELNHOLD, Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS COLE, '36, a son, 
'57, Cincinnati, Ohio, Nov. 7, 1939. Stephen Augustine, Fcbniarv 17, 1960. Miss BaHjara Ann Bcnford and GERALD J. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. KERSCHISNIK, '36, TRAFFICANDA, '57, Canoga Park, Calif., Fi-bru-a daughter, Joan Marie, June 21, I960. ao- 20, 1960. Mr. and Mrs. NICK RAICH, '56, a son, An­Miss Anne Elizabeth Eraser and FRANK W. thony Adam, May 10. 1960. LEAHY, JR.,-'58, Long Beacli, Ind., April 23, Jlr. and Mrs. JAMES B. TEDFORD, '56, a 1960. i^ , -• son, in June. illiss Kathleen Kastner and THOMAS O. MC­Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. GUILFOILE, '37, a LAUGHLIN, '38, South Bend, Ind., May 28, 1960. son, Patrick Gerard, March 14, I960. 
Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW F. SLANA, '57, a son, Marcli 2, 1960. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT WEINER, '37, a daugh­ter. Theresc Marie, April 27, 1950. Lt. and Mrs. JAMES BRENN,\N, '58, a son, James, Mardi 23, I960. -Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E.\GELS, '58, a daugh­ter, Jeanne Patrice, on June 28, 1960. Jlr. and Mrs. JOSEPH R. RICH, '58, a daugh­ter, Lizbeth Ann, Fcbniarv 22, 1960. A Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES W. KEEN,\N, '59, a .son,' James Francis, March 26, I960. 
Deaths 

ARTHUR J. MICHELS, *96, died in South 
Bend on June 13, 19C0. An electrical engineer, he 
was associated ^nth the Indiana and Micliigan 
Electric Co. until retirement in 1940. Five daugh­
ters sur\'ived. 
ARTHUR F. WOLF, '99, of Mishaw-aka, Indi­
ana, died April 17, 1960. Mr. ^Volf was former 
St. Joseph County auditor and a retired banker. A 
He is survived by his son, John M. Wolf, *40, of 
Misliau'aka. 
OSCAR LIPPMAN, '02, of San Diego, Calif., 
died December, 1959. Sir. Lippman attended 
grammar scliool at Xotre Dame in 1881 and knew 
Father SoHn. He ts survived by his son. 
HENRY E. BROWN, '02, of Hasbrouck Helghu, 
N. J., died May 21, 1959, according to word re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
E. DOUGL.\SS STAPLES, *02, of Qiariottcs­villc, Va., died April 25, I960, according to in­formation received in the Alumni office. He is survived by his sister. 
FILVNCIS J. KEHL, *05. of Kansas City, Mo., ^ died February 6, 1960. Mr. Kehl was born in ™ Shebo>-gan Falls, Wis., and was president of tlie Kehl Realty Company. 
THO.MAS J. WELCH, '05, of Kcu^nce, Illinois, died May 16, I960. Mr. Weldi, past president of tlic Illinois Bar Association and a prominent Ke­wanec lawyer, ^vas a native of Moline, 111. He is sun-ived by his wife, four sons and a sister. 
PAUL M. 0*DONNELL, '06, of Ex-anston. Il­linois, died Frfj. 25, I960. A veteran of the Mexi­can Border Campaign of 1916, Mr. O'Donnell was a former E\*anston postmaster and Chicago attor­ney. He is sur\-ivfd bv his wife, and a daugliter. 
REV. AHCHAEL A. MATHIS, C.S.C.. '10. an ^ authority on the Iiturg>- of the Churcli at Notre™ Dame, died Marcli 10. 1960, after a long Illness. He was 74. Father Matlils is survived by two sisters and two brothers. 
JUDGE J. ELMER PE^VK, ^2, of South Bend. Indiana, died April 3, 1960 of a heart ailment. Judge Peak first took office on the bench of Superior Court No. 2, Jan. I, 1931, and held that post until Jan. 1, 1955, when he was elected to the Circuit bench, a post he held until his death. He is survived by his wife, three daughters and a son. 
JAMES MICH.VEL WARE, *13, of Kewanna, Indiana, died Augtist 3, 1957, according to infor-^^ mation jiLst received in the Alumni office. ^P 
JAMES A. CURRY, '14, of Hartford, Connecti­cut, died February II, 1960, according to word received in the Alumni office. 
REV. STxVNISLAUS S. KUSZ\7^'SKI, C.S.C.. *I5, of aiicago, died April 19, 1960 of a heart i attack. Father Kusz\-nski was pastor of St. Stani-i slaus Churcli of South Bend from 1937 until 1940 | and assistant pastor of Holy Trinity Churcli of Chicago from 1940 until his death. He is sur­vived bv a brother. Rev. Caslmlr KiL<;zvnski. 
REV. WALTER K. CONWAY, C.S.C., '23, died Marcli 26, I960, in the Community Infimiarv*. Father Conwuy entered the Novitiate of the Holy ^ Cross Fathers In I9I9, made his final profession of vows In 1923, and v\-as ordained in 1927. He is survived bv a brother and a sister. 
JAMES J. METCALFE, '23, of Dallas, Texas, died Marcli 19, I960. Mr. Metcalfe, author of a daily newspaper column of poems v\-as formerly an FBI agent, and investigator for tlic U. S. Depart­ment of Agriculture. He is survived by his wife, two sons, a daughter, two brothers and a sister. 
JOSEPH A. BL/\NKE, '25, died in Traverse City, Midi., according to word received by the ^ Alumni Office. J^ 
FIR.MIN D. FUSZ, JR., '25, of Webster Groves, Missouri, died May 14, I960. Mr. Fusz was a na­tive of St. Louis. He \\*as founder and partner in the brokerage firm of Fusz-Sclimelzle and Co. He is survived by -his wife, three daughters, and three sisters. 
EDWARD W. LAKNER, *25, of Clevdand, Ohio, died November 18, 1958, according to word ^ 
^6 "Noire-Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
•received in the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife, -a son and daughter. 
BION R. VOGEL, '25, of San Gabriel, Calif., died ^fardi 26, 1960. Mr. Vogcl was an attorney viith the firm of Frcston & Files. He is survived by bis wife, two daughters, his mother and two sisters. 
EDWARD V. CRO^VE, '26, executive director and co-founder of the CYO in Detroit, died June 12, 1960, in a car-train accident near Port Huron, Mich. He played \-arsiiy football and basketball 
^a t Notre Dame, one of seven brothers in university 
•sports. Sur\*iving arc his widow, five cliildren, nine brothers and a sister. 
REX E. E.\RIGHT, '26, of Columbia, S. Car., died April 6, 1960. Mr. Enright was a fullback under Knute Rockne, held various athletic posts throughout the country, and was athletic director of die University of South Carolina at the lime of Iiis death. His widow survives. 
XnCHAEL M. ANDERBERG, *27, of ifcHenry, Illinois, died February* 25, 1960. Mr. Andcrbcrg. an advertising solicitor for the Chicago American u-as previously associated with the Chicago Tribune and the Daily News. He is survived by his par­
• ents and two sisters. 
SISTER .M. AUGUSTELLA (SEMORTIER) C.S.C., '27, head librarian at St. Mary's College, died February 16, 1960. Sister Augustella entered tlie Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1917 and received the holy habit of the Sisterhood in I9I8. SIic made her profession of final vows in 1923. Survi\ing are a sister, a half-sister, and a half-brotlier. 
HARRY A. LYDDANE, '27, of Sacramento, Calif., died Januar>' 7, 1960, according to word received in the Alumni Office. His widow survives. 
FR/\NK G. >fAYER, '27, of St. Paul, Minn., died March 24, 1960. Mr. Mayer joined the en­gineering department of the St. Paul Division of 
^Northern States Power Company in 1927 and was assistant manager and sales manager at the time of bis death. He was a member of the Scrra Club and Knlgbts of Columbus. Sur\'iving arc his wife, a son and three daughters. 
DUNCAN S. MCDONALD, '27, of Escondido, Calif., died March, 1960, according to information received in the /Mumnl Office. He is survived by his wife and a son. 
PETER BEE.MSTERBOER, '28, of Dayton, Ohio. died February- 26, I960, according to information received in the Alumni Office. Surviving arc his wife and son. 
REV. NORM/\N J. JOHNSON, C.S.C., '28, for­

^mc r U. S. /Vir Force diaplain, died February 3, 1960, in Tripler U. S. Army Hospital, Honolulu. Father Johnson was a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force Reserves and the author of several Air Force diameter formation manuals. Survinng are three sisters. 
ROBERT E. KIRBY. '28, of Indianapolis, Indi­ana, died Mardi 17, I960. Mr. Kirby was vice­diairman of the Indiana Toll Road Commission, a Wcc-presidcnt of the Indianapolis Indians base­ball team, and a leading figure in the movement to keep tlic /Vmerican ^Vssodation baseball team in Indianapolis. 
ALFRED E. MORIN, '28, of Glenbrook, Con-Anecticut, died February 18, I960, according to word received in tlie Alumni Office. 
JOHN D. STEWART, '28, of Battle Creek, Michigan, died November 6, 1959. Mr. Stc«*art was former editor of the Florida Catholic, St. Augustine diocesan nc%vspapcr, veteran newsman and director of press and information at the op­erational headquarters of the Office of Cinl De­fense in Battle Creek. Surxiving are his wife, two sons and a daughter. 
THO.M/\S F. FARRELL, '29, of South Bend. Indiana, died April 22, 1960. Mr. Farrell, a na­tive of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., had been employed in 
.^th e experimental division of the Bcndbc Products 
•Division, Bcndbc Aviation Corp. He is sur\-ivcd by his wife, four sons and four daughters. 
MICHAEL J. FRON'TCZ.VK, '30, died January 24, 1960, in Bronxvillc, New York, according to information received In the /Uumni Office. 
ROYAL J. HIGGINS, '30, of Chicago, Illinois, died April I, 1960, according to word received in tlie Almnni Office. He is survived by his \viie, two sons, two daughters, tlirec sisters and a brotlier. 
BROTHER RUPERT (POURDRIER), C.S.C. 
J*30, of Dujarie Hall, died February- 3, 1960. Brother Rupert was director for se\en years of the Gibault school for boys in Tcrrc Haute, Indi­ana and former Headmaster of the Notre Dame ing are his wife, five sons, five daughters, three sisters and three brothers. 
EDWARD J. FITZGERALD, '34. of Scotia, Ne%v York, died February, I960, according to informa­tion received in the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife. 
J.\MES L. SULLIVAN, '35, of Tcrre Haute, In­dbna, died January, 1959, according to informa­tion recei\x>d in the Alumni Office. His wife sur­vives. 
JERE.MIAH J. CLIFFORD, *38, of Houston, Texas, died February 7, 1960, according to word received in the Alumni Office. Mr. ClifTord is sur\^ved by two sons, and two daughters in Midiigan City, Indiana. 
JOSEPH C. MASON, '39, of South Bend, Indi­ana, died June 2, 1960, according to word received in the jVlumni Office. He is survived bv a sister. 
GEORGE N. SHE.\, '40, of Brooklyn, New York, died April 5, I960, according to word reccix-ed in the Alumni Office. SurviWng is his wife. 
ROBERT L. KEHOE, '42, of Batavia, Illinois, died March 9, I960 after a long illness. Mr. Kchoe had been a sdiool guidance counselor and agent for the Northwestern Mutual. He was a member of Holy Cross Church and a fourth degree mem­ber of the Knights of Columbus. Surx'inng arc his wife, sbc children, and his mother. 
\\\ THOMAS PROBST, '42, died June 7, 1960, in South Bend. A realtor and World War II vet­eran, he xs'as a fourth degree Knight of Columbus. Sur\'iving are his wife and mother, three brothers and two sisters. 
REV. JAMES LEO M\RTIN, C.S.C., '44, of Taunton, Mass., died May 24, 1960, according to information received in the Alumni Office. Father Martin u'as formerly in the Mission Bank and a member of the faculty of St. Gregory's College, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
J.VMES A. FABRIZIO, '49, of Haxre de Grace, Maryland, was killed February 9, 1960, when a fire and explosion of unknown origin demolished his fireworks plant. He is survived by his wife. 
EDWARD TRUFFARELLI, '49, of South Bend, Indiana, died January 28. 1960, according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
ROBERT L. BUKATY, '55, of Kansas City, Missouri, died September 28, 1952, according to information just received from his mother. 
DR. THEODORE K. JUST, Oak Park, III., ciuator of botany at the Chicago Natural History Museum and former head of the biology depart­ment at Notre Dame, died June 14, 1960, in his home. Austrian born, he served on the faculty for 17 years, was editor of the rVmerican Midland Natiu^ist and founder of the journal's monograph scries. His widow and tlircc daughters sur\ive. 
Sympathy 

WILLIAM W. TURNER, 16, on ihc death of his wife, April .22, 1960. AARON, '19, and FRANK HALLORAN, •23, on the death of their mother, April 4, 1960. FRED B. DRESSEL, '22, on the death of hU father, March 27, I960. LEO J. LOVETT, '22, on the death of his mother, February 19, 1960. WILLLUf J. SEIDENSTICKER, '23, on the death of his iv-ife, April 23, 1960. JOHN E. SKELLY, '29, on the death of hii mother, February 17, 1960. 
LEO E., '31, .\UUR1CE J., 'Jt, and LAU­RENCE L. GARLAND, '37, on the death ol their father, -May 4, 1960. 
TERRENCE J., '32 and JOSEPH DILLON, '48, on the death of their mother, Feb. 23, 1960. RICILVRD P., '32 and ROBERT H. L^UIBERT, '40, on the death of their father. April 13, 1960. 
FRANK W., '3t and FREDERICK HONER­KA.MP, '39, on the death of their father, Feb. 20, I960. 
^^^LLL•\.M C, '34 and FRANK J. REILLY, '37, on the death of their mother, Jan. 4. I960. WILLUM J. WALSH, JR., '34, on the death of his mother, Feb. 7, 1960. REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., '38, on the death of his father, Feb. 28, 1960. ANTHONY .M. BERNARD, "40, on the death of his father, February-, 1960. ROBERT T. HOOFFSTETTER, '40, on the death of his father, February 1, I960. THEODORE P. JOCHE.MS, '40, on the death of his father, February, 1960. PAUL NEVILLE, *42, on the death ot his mother, June 12, 1960. 
ROBERT A., '42 and ELMER M. MATTHEWS, '47, on the death of their father, April 20, 1960. DR. LEO TURGEON, JR., '42, on the death 
of his father, March 5, 1960. CHARLES A. ZITNIK, '43, on the death of his father. May, 1960. VERB, '44, ZANE, '50, and CLAIR TRINKLEY, '53, on the death of their father. May 26, 1960. BROTHER JOHN LAVELLE, C.S.C., '49, on the death of his mother. May, 1960. LOUIS H. ZUMBAHLEN, '49, on the death of his father, February 28, I960. DANIEL C. FLANAGAN, JR., '52, on the death ot his father, February 28, 1960. WILLIAM D. FOTE, JR., '52, on the death of his father, April 2, 1960. GERALD V. .McCABE, 53, on the death of hus father, .May, 1960. THOMAS E., '53 and DONALD S. DOHERTY, '57, on the death of their father, March 26, 1960. 
High School of Sherman Oaks, Calif. ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Presenting a wreath after the 29th annual Rockne Communimi 
MAURICE P. LUTHER, '31, of Detroit, Michi­Breakfast on March 27 are (I. to r.): BUI Knute, Jr., and Jack Rockne, sons of the late gan, died June I, 1960, after an illness of several 
coach; Joe Kurth, breakfast speaker; Pat Canny, toastmaster; and (below) Mike, Knute 
weeks. Mr. Luther was an engineer witli the Mercury Division of the Ford Motor Co. Surviv­
and Bill, sons of Jack Rockne and Knute Rockne's grandsons. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
JOHN T. GLUIBRUNO, '54, on ihc dcatli o( his mother, April 21, 19G0. AMLLIAM W. AICHROTH, '3S, on the death of his father, April 29, 1937. PATRICK McNULTY, '3G, on the death of Ins fatlier. May 17, I9G0. ROBERT GIUNCO, '57, on the death of his father, Februar>-, 1960. 
50 YEAR CLUB 
To BILL FERSTEL, DAN* O'CONNOR, FA­

THER DOREMUS and BILL JAMIESON (who 
were there all the time) and any other Fifty Year 
Clubbers who took part Jn the 1960 Reunions, 
thanks for your wonderful example of zcstful living 
to the younger alumni, who couldn't fail to note and 
emulate it. 
JOSEPH V. SULLIVAN. '97. has been in touch 

with classmaic HUiVFER M. BEXXETT in Weston, 
W. Va. Joe, wiio lives in Chicago and has spent a few years in Florida, checked with the Alumni Office to find out how many sur\'ivors of the '97 Class he might remember. AH the Golden Crads are invited to do the saiiic^ 
Two former students of the Nineties passed away recently. ART MICHELS of South Bend left eight grandcliildren and 14 great grandchildren. ED McGUIRE of S>Tacusc, N. Y., former news­paperman and friend of the ill-fated Al Smith. etc, died back in February. Our prayers for these and all the others in the obituary columns. 
LOUIS E. VENEZIANI wrote in to icll us about HENRY BROWN, '02, whom wc had re­ported as seriously ill in January. Henry died in Hasbrouck Heiglits, N. J., May 21. Mr. Vene­ziani reported and added: "His death severs a link of early Notre Dame historj* as he was related to FATHER XE.\L GILLESPIE, one of the first graduates; FATHER EWING, former director of studies; and Mother Angela of St. Mar>-'s who had a long and distinguished career as Mother Su­perior." A Minim of the Nineties In St. Edu-ard's Hall and an associate of Mr. Brown in the Singer Alfg. Company. Mr. Vcncziani made the news liimself with his retirement from Singer in July after 54 years of ser\'icc in four states and more than 30 years as a purdiasing executive. He Is active in the N.D. Club of New York and other organizations, has two married daughters, seven Srandcliildren and a great grandchild. 
Another New Yorker in the news was Hon. ERNEST E. L. HAMMER, '01, of the Nc%v York Supreme Court, who was honored at tlic Third Annual Golden Anniversarv' Cocktail Dance of the New York Club's Long Island Division this past spring. Judge Hammer is president of the Lavelle Scltool for the Blind in New York. Tlie hoiiorar\' president is Cardinal Spellman. 
JOHN B. PICK, '02, is still veo' active in West Bend, Wis. He took an LL.B. at Notre Dame but never found time to practice law, "managed my widowed mother's business . . . later (1910) engaged in fanning and cattle raising in Montana. 
"I weigh 182 pounds today," he reports, "same exact weight as in the fall of 1901 when I played center for N.D." 
At a recent audience in the Vatican, Jack Anton, '38, (right foreground) stood at the Holy Father's side. A seminarian at Bcda College (for late vocations), he will be ordained April 7, 1962. 
The aforementioned BILL JAMIESON, '05, 

was a double rcunionist this year. Earlier, at the 
University Club In Chicago, lie Joined ten high 
school classmates for the COth reunion of the Chi­
cago Manual Training School Class of 1900. He 
is a former professor at St. Thomas College, Min­
nesota. 
BILL DAUNT, '06, whose "illuminccring" busi­

ness has created lighting' systems for IBM, Bethle­
hem Steel, Koppcrs, etc, left Long Island jn the 
spnng for a business trip that took him to the 
campus for a couple of days. Bill reminisced about 
manv of his classmates. 
FATHER WILLIAM O'BRLVN, *06, pastor of 

St. Mary's Churcli in Delaware, O., celebrated his 
Golden Jubilee as a priest in May. Tlic 80-year-oId 
pastor was honored with a banquet attended by 
the Bishop of Columbus. 
The remaining papers of the late FRANK WALKER. '09, were presented to the University archives in -April and will be used as the basis for a biography of the great Laetare medalist, administrator and postmaster general under the late Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
1900 REUNION REGISTR/\NT WILLIAM G. FERSTEL 
1905 REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS WILLIAM D. JAMIESON DANIEL J. O'CONNOR 
1906 REUNION REGISTRANT REV. CHARLES DOREMUS, C.S.C. 

1910 
REUNION REGISTRANTS ANDREW E. FOLEY, HARRY MILLER, WIL­LIAM SCH.MITT, CLrVUDE SORG 
Tlie 50-year Reunion Class, tliough small, was prominent as the star group of the Traditions Dinner and Alumni Banquet in June. 
As a footnote to the recollections of that week end, W. LAWRE.\CE SEXTON sent in a clipping from an Indianapolis newspaper recalling that Notre Dame conferred an honorary' LL.D. degree in 1910 on Governor (and later \1ce President) THO.\L\S R. .MARSHALL, who gave the com­mencement address. It was the first time in history that a governor of Indiana had partic­ipated in the University's commencement program. 
Fred L. Steers 

1911 
105 S. I^aSalle St 
Chicago 3, nUnois 
REUXIOX REG1STR,VNTS JASPER H. I-\\\TOX, FRED L. STEERS 

From the Alumni Office: An §875,000 men's dormitory is being erected bv the IIolv Cross Fathers at Stonchill Collcse, North Eastoli, Mass., in honor of JOHN CARDI­NAL 0'HAR,-\, first Holy Cross priest to be named to the College of Cardinals. Stonehill was founded by the Ifoly Cross Fathers in 1948. FRED STEERS, having been present for the reunions of all the recent 50-ycar classes, has had a lot of experience for summoning the men of '11 to their Golden Jubilee, only a tew short niontlis away. 
1912 ^- J- "'^™" Kaiser 
' ' ' *• 604 East Tenth St 
Berwicli, Pa. 

From the Alumni Office: Time has flown since the 45th anniversary; June, 1962, will witness the 50th. BEN KAISER would like to increase the '57 attendance of Kaiser, McDonald, Mendez, Phillip and Weeks. Anyone who would like to pledge his attendance, contact his classmates or offer suggestions should write to lien at the above address immediately. 
191 3 ^^"^ ^- Byrne 
"'• * 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANT JAMES W. O'HARA 

From the Alumni Office: 9 ' 
KEENE FITZPATRICK, out in Laguna Beach, Calif., is a member of the "First Friday Friars," an Orange County group devoted to increasing the observance of the First Fridays. He also lakes a *'kccne" interest in present and prospective stu­dents and young alumni of Notre Dame. 
ALFRED N. (DUTCH) BERGMAN (the original *'Dutch" Bergman from Peru, Indiana) plans to attend the N.D.-Purdue game on the campus, according to CHARLIE C,\LL,\HAN, '38. It will be his fii^t gzunc in thirty years. Ha\'ing been^, hospitalized for that period at Irene Byron Hospital"-; in Fort Wayne, Dutch has finally licked all traces | 
C. MARCELLUS VERBIEST. '20 To a Top Insurance Op., Advtg.'s "Oscar" 
On June 21 C. M. Verbicst and .-\sso-^ ciates, Inc., Detroit, was awarded an "Os­car" for outstanding insurance advertising by the Insurance .\dvcrtising Conference in Miami, Florida. Competing for awards were agents and brokers from all parts of the U. S. and Canada. Entries were judged according to business volume, with Verbicst the winner in the section reserved for agen­cies doing the largest volume of business, 
C. Marcellus Verbiest is president of the agency; his son, Thomas, is vice president.^ The firm is a leading state and national ad­ministrator of group insurance for profes­sional men. Marce Verbiest has been in Detroit insurance since 1928 and organized his own agency in 1941. He also attended the University of Detroit and is governor for -Michigan of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. 
Alarce has ser\'ed as governor since 1953 and has been the moving force behind Foundation activities in Michigan since that 9 time. He has three daughters (two mar­ried) besides Tom, who was graduated from 
N.D. in 1952. Marce and his wife, Grace, have a total of 10 grandchildren. A past director of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, he received the Man-of-thc-Year Award in 1952. He has also been active in raising funds for Boysville and for Assumption College in Windsor, Canada. , 0 
He's a director and immediate past presi­dent of the Detroit -Assn. of Insurance Agents and Road-Aid, Inc.; a member of the National Assn. of Insurance Agents, De­troit Athletic Club, Crosse Pointe Yacht Club, and the University Club. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus; September, 1960 
of tuberculosis. TIic mfonnation was relayed by HERB JONES, atlilctic business manager. 
First of three brothers to bear the nickname "Dutch," Bergman won an unapproached 11 mono­grams in football, baseball, basketball and track, which he captained. Twice he won four mono­grams in one year. He and the late RUPE MILLS of Newark, N. J., were the only two to achieve this until World War H when JOHN LUJACK and GEORGE RiVTTERM.\N matclicd them. Dutch's brothers made seven more mono-
f grams between ihtm. ARTHUR J. BERGMAN won four in football and track. JOE BERGM/\X won three in football and baseball, making the Bergman family total of 18 monograms. Tlic only family to riral this would be the Crowes of Lafayette, Ind. CLE.\t CROWE earned six mono­grams in football and basketball. FRxVNCIS CROWE won three in basketball, as did LEO CROWE and NORBERT CROWE. NfIKE CROWE earned two in basketball, and EM.METT CROWE had one in football, for a total of eighteen, tying the Bergmans. 
* 1 91 4• ' •  Walter Clements  623 Park Avenue South Bend, Indiana  
REUNION REGISTILVNT POVNTELLE DOWNING  

From the Alumni Office: 

From the above you would think that Decatur's POYNT DOWNING was the only Fourtcener on hand for the 1960 Reunions, but 'taint so. RtW MILLER, on hand for the annual Monogram Club meeting, stayed for the week end as a member of 
\ the ^5 Class, and WALTER CLEMENTS was another who signed In with his Law Class in order to swell the ranks of the 45-year group. 
The tragic death of RON O'NEILL was reported as wc went to press. Please pray for him. 
1915 Js^cs £. Sanford 
• ' • "^ 1429 W. Farragut Ave. Chicago 40, HI. 

REUNION REGISTR^VNTS LENNOX ARMSTRONG, NORMAN C. BAR­THOLOMEW, ALBIN H. BERGER, JOSEPH M. ; BYRNE, Jr., WALTER CLE.MEN*TS, THOMAS CUMISKY, L. D. KEESLx\R, WILLIAM A. KEL­LEHER, R.\YMOND J. KELLY, JOSEPH F. KENNEY, ALBERT KUHLE, CHARLES H. Mc­aVRTHY, JOHN J. McSHxVNE, JOHN S. MAL­COLM, HAROLD H. MUNGER, OWEN MUR­PHY, JOHN H. O'DONNELL, NORMxVN H. R.\NSTEx\D, EDWARD RILEY, ROBERT ROACH, JAMES SANFORD, HENRY B. SNY­DER, ILVY.MOND J. SULLIV.AN 
It's an aiLspicious vcar for the *15 Cla^s. GEORGE NAUMAN SHUSTER, former president of Hunter College and editor of Commonweal magazine, author of several books, delegate to 
i UNESCO, etc., A\-as awarded the Laetare Medal at commencement exercises early in June. A hot property on the national committee circuit right now, George was also named to the board of directors of the National Educational Television and Radio Center, which ser\'es as headquarters for all educational TV in the U. S. Dr. Shuster had long planned to be present at the -iDth Reunion but was unable to return a week after commencement. Present in spirit, he dominated the '15 Reunion and its highlight, the Traditions Dinner. 
Credit must be given to President BOB RO.ACH and to JOE BYRNE for the letters, phone calls, 
I etc., wliicli made the reunion such a success. Bob and Joe formed a national coumiittec with the Secretary to promote attendance. 
Among the celebrities present was R(\Y KELLY, whose tenure as U. S. District Judge in Alaska was terminated by the Statehood Act. Ray is now a judicial officer for the Post Oflicc Department in Washington under the Administrative Procedure Act, acting as liaison between the department and the courts with which he is so familiar and review­ing violations of postal laws. 
At the dinner of the earlier classes many names 

' were on all lips, like that of the first FATHER JOHN GWANAUGH. Honored at first hand, as he came off retreat, was FATHER MATT AVALSH. Those planning the affair had been assured by FATHER TOM IRVING that Father Walsh would enjoy the tribute if they would **just keep it modest.'* 
Speaking of JUDGE KELLY, as we were a mo­ment ago, a third Ra>-mond J. Kelly entered 
Marine 1st. Lt. Roger J. Kiley, Jr., '58, son of Illinois Appellate Judge Roger Kilcy, '23, receives his wings at March graduation cere­monies at Pcnsacola. Rog is a helicopter pilot stationed in North Carolina. 
Notre Dame last September at the age of 16. Ray is proud of the progress of his oldest grandchild. He and Nora now number their grandchildren at 
19. They have an apartment In Washington, but daughter Winifred has been keeping up their perma­nent residence In Detroit. 
The Reunion was marred only by the absence of many former mentors whom all would have liked to see, and particularly by the passing of many beloved classmates, most recently FATHER ST.ANISUVUS KUS2'\'NSKI in Chicago. May they rest In peace. 
(Ed. Note: Secretary- JIM SANFORD should get much credit as a prime mover of the Traditions Dinner and reunion promotion. As a Great Lakes Shipping executive and editor of the industry's trade magazine, you'd think he would be busy enough, but Jim Is also deeply involved, as a veteran job counselor, with the Chicago City Missionary Society's summer employment experience program, a non-sectarian effort for high school bovs and girls. J. L.) 
1916 Grovcr F. Miller 
612 Wisconsin Ave 
Racine, \Vis. 
REUNION REGISTR.\NTS WILLIAM BR.VDBURY, REV. VINCENT MOONEY, CS.C. 

Gleanings bv Grove from Miller's Mallbag: R.\LPH "ZIPPER" L.\THROP retired In 1957. was a v.p. of Marsh-McLennon, Insurance brokers; married 43 years ago to "a wonderful gal," left Carmcl, N. Y. In June for high school 50th re­union. . . . JOSEPH M. McGR^VTH and wife Gertrude live at 237 N. Bent Rd., Wyncotc, Pa. Their son (N.D. '54) Is now a resident physician at the Montgomery State Hospital, Norrlstown, Pa. For IG years Joe has been with Publlcker In­(lustries, Inc., Philadelphia, semi-retired since a coronarv five vears back; is active with the Pliilly 
N.D.
 Club. . . . Reunionist BILL BR^VDBURY plans to return in '61 j has helped'develop several 

N.D.
 men In Robinson, 111. Bill is on the N.D. Law Council; brother Stan, '23, is running for re­election as states attorney against strong Republican opposition; other Notre Damers include FRANK REESE, '25. Bill was eligible for Social Security last September but doesn't want to quit. .. . ED M.-VRCUS, lost for many years, develops real estate in Largo, Fla., and is president of Bay View Title Corp., Clear^^'ater; has two boys and two girls, all through college; hav*ing traveled much. Including Spain, he intends to make the '61 reunion. .. . In South Bend, N.D. professor of engineering drauing WILLIAM W. TURNER planned retirement this summer; after Bethlehem Steel and service In 


France, he married in Canada, taught high school in South Bend before N.D.; In 24 years he -was department head for 13, published many texts used nationally, and won the Lay Facidty Award in '54. He has a married daughter and a son, a Lt. Col. in space medidne. He'll be on hand in '61. . . . TOM O'CONNOR, with the Catholic Courier Journal, Rocliester, N. Y,, as associate editor after 36 years in the Catholic press, has six sons and a daughter, all well situated; cotdd never afford to return to campus, so he's overdue next June. . . , BOB CARR, the Ottowa, III., lawyer, has a new daughter-in-law and questionable Social Security eligibility; reminisced about his few re­turns to N.D.: "Wlien we were at Notre Dame, the first offense of smoking meant 30 days' suspen­sion and the second expubion. Now they have vending machines In every noot and comer." . . . EDGAR KOBAK, an N. Y. broadcasting man and veteran N.D. council member. Is a comparative youngster; he's really an alumnus of the Minims at St. Edward's Hall but says "I might even get to the reunion. In 1961." 
Congratulations to Tulsa oilman JOE La FORTUNE on his election to the chairmanship of the N.D. f\ssociatc Board of Lay Trustees. 
1917 E*lward J. McOskcr 
• ' " R.R. 2, Box 1, So. State S t Rd. Elgin, lU. 
REUNION REGISTR^VNT JOHN i L MILLER 

PAUL FOGARTY, who received reunion pictures from 1915 Secretary JIM S.\NFORD, noted the familiar face of Texan BILL GRcVDY, who was quite a basketball player at N.D. Paul wondered what Bill was doing with '"you old guys of '15.'* It's easily explained. Bill, a seml-rctlrcd A & P exec, was following up on a suggestion made at the last reunion that the *I7 grads return every year. Trouble Is, the fcIlou*s who made the sug­gestion never show up. 
Congratulation^ to Peoria's JOHN Cf\SSIDY on his marriage In February to Mrs. Murlie Douglas Mercer of San Francisco, widow of a California mining engineer. John Is a very successful lawyer and a former attorney general of Illinois. 
Your correspondent (that's a laugh) thought the following letter from C. G. "CHUBBY" COR­COR.-VN (operations engineer for the Illinois High­way Division) is so newsy that the Seventceners would like to read it, so I have asked the editor to publish it in Its entirety: 
"SHERWOOD DIXON has Informed me that JOHN (JACK) GARRY wishes to have his name placed on the mailing list for the 1917 Class. He Is located at Port Nechcs, Texas, which—Sherwood sal's—is even a smaller town than Dixon, If possible. 
"Recently I had a note from a nephew who now lives In Phoenix. At my suggestion he called upon AL\TT TRUDELLE and had a nice visit with him. Matt told him to be sure and say hello to me and to inform me that JOHN (BRUSH) M.\­HONEY called upon him in Phoenix recently and they had dinner together one evening. All these years I have been wondering what it took to get Malioncy to leave Wyoming. Now maybe I have the answer! 
"Had Christmas cards from GEORGE SH^\X­AHAN, Lima, O., and "L.\W" WELCH, India­napolis. Also met Shanahan at the Northwestern football game. Had the pleasure of picking up LEO VOGEL at the Morris Inn after the North­western game and taking him to Mldu'ay Airport so that he could Hy to Peoria and Join Mrs. Vogel and his daughter on the occasion of their granddaughter's First Holy Communion. . . . 
"I was pleased to learn that you are now a resident of Elgin again. Ma>'be I will be seeing you soon, cither there or here In Springfield. 
**P.S. Forgot to mention that I sat alongside of EMMETT KEEFE at the Northwestern game. Also had a \-isit with "BUTCH" WHIPPLE and "BIG" FR^\NK Rx\JEWSKI; sat t\vo scats away from Fx\THER VINCE MOONEY. Father Mooney IS a pastor—Columbus, Ohio. Needless to say, I had a good vbit \vith all of tlicse good friends." 
The only classmate I have seen since returning to Elgin to make my home is my old roommate, ELMER TOBIN, who, as most of you know, has been a practicing attorney here since his graduation. Elmer's son Bill is an officer in Naval Air, based in Hawaii. Tob and his wife Helen are planning an air trip to Hawaii to visit Bill in the near future. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 49 
191 8  Charles W. Call  
•'• "  225 Paterson Ave  
Hasbrouck  Heights, N.  J.  
REUNION  REGISTR.VNTS  

WILLIAM ANDRES. PETER J. RONCHETTI 
Flying recently to N.Y.C. for no other reason than to take in scvera] theatrical oHTeringB along Broadway, Class President JOHN LEMMER is spending most of the year on a I9-country tour of Europe, accompanied by Mrs. Lemmer. John re­ceived the following from MORRIS STARRET in OIvTiipia, Wash.: "Yours forwarded from Port Townsend. the old loganberry capital (industr>' now deceased). I am here, a retired senior Roiarian. a retired postmaster (1955), working with public relations on State Highways. Will hear.JIM CROWLEY roll Vm in the aisles in Seattle to­morrow. Have a keen boy, Brian Boulac of Olvmpia. at N.D.. will plav some end fur 0"kuliarlch next year. FATHER EUGENE BURKE is his chapenm. More soon. Regards. Morrie." 
Intrigued by the recent ALUMNUS stor\- re­garding P. Lincoln White of the U.S. State Depl. news division. NORBERT G. MONNING of Knox­\-ilIe, Tenn.. passes along the informalion that he too attended Spring Hill College and St. Mary's Institute, now University of Da\-ton, before arriving at N.D. in 1914. He recalls members of the White family from his childhood days. 
GEORGE E. HARBERT, long the secretary of our Class, is honeymooning in Europe with his bride, the former Margaret Barr>*, principal of Chicago's Tennyson School. Tlic happy couple are flying to Germany for the Passion Play at Obcram­mergau. Tliej* will \-isit Ireland, Italy and Switzer­land also, George's first wife, whom he married soon after graduation, died a few years ago. In­cidentally, the Rock Island County Abstract & Title Guaranty Co., of which George is president, is now housed in mucli larger quarters in the Liberty Bldg., 211 18th Street, Rock Island, 111. 
GEORGE WAAGE, Chicago, informs that other 

N.D. distance star of long ago, FREDDIE STEERS, 'II, was more than kind to him upon the recent passing of George's aged mother. George, by the way, has an exceptionally fine collection of photo­graphs of the 19I4-I918 era, and he Is not a\-crsc to sending them to anyone interested. All you have to do is say *'plcasc" and promise to return them. Anyone ^^•ho's interested may address the secretary', and George will go into action. 
Prominent among the large engineering force developing the famous Expressway s>'5tcm in tke Detroit. Mich., area is our classmate C. H. BROWN. No\*- completing his 40th year with the Michigan State Highway Department, he specializes In construction and maintenance wiirk. 
NORB MONNING, mentioned above, is in his final year before retirement. One of the few grad­uate architects in our class, is building a house and Intends to locate in Lanark, Fla., which is on St. George's Sound, a part of the Gulf of Mexico. He opines that It will be just right for a ''Tennessee mountaineer." Tliere is an attractive new Cath­olic cliurch near his property, felt by him to have been planned by an N^.D, graduate. He has some fine pictures of the church and wDuld be pleased to sliarc them with the architect if the latter would contact him through the Class Secretary. 
Tlie latter has been a bit handicapped. On ^larch I my right e\'c came apart In Florida, and I was rushed to the Eye Institute at the N. Y. Medical Center for a delicate retina detaclimcnt operation. Recuperation will take a couple more months. Prayers would be appreciated for the full recovery of eyesight. 
101 0 Theodore C. Radcmakcr Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
Classmates will be pleased to know that ^lAU-RICE CARROLL has not missed an Alumni Board meeting since his election as a director, even though St. Louis is not too convenient to N.D., and has been a hard-working contributor of Ideas for the improvement of the University and her alumni. 
192 0 Janics H. Ryan I 7A V j^Q Maybrook Rd. Rochester 18, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JAMES H. BAILEY, JOHN T. BALFE, LEO­NARD CALL, FRANCIS J. CLOHESSY, PAUL 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
EDWARD J. LALLEY, '20 Ncarini; 40 Years in the 4th Estate 

As he returned to the campus for the 40th Reunion of the Class of '20, Ed Lallcy had completed ten years as managing editor of The Globe, official newspaper of the Diocese of Sioux City, Iowa. Now in his 11 th year at the helm, he is approaching his 40th year as a working newsman with all the enthusiasm of a cub reporter on his first assignment. 
Ed won his monogram as a pitcher in varsity baseball at Notre Dame and roomed with Captain Frank "Rangy" Miles, dab­bling in track and inter-hall football. After taking his Litt.B., he returned to his native South Dakota and wound up on the edi­torial stafT of the Sioux Falls Press for the next seven years. In June, 1928, he went to Sioux City, Ta., spending the next 19 years in every editorial department of the sister dailies, the Sioux City Journal and Journal-Tribune. After a dozen years as night editor, he managed the sports and city desks before moving his family, in 1947, to Dubuque and joining the staff of the Tele­graph-Herald. In 1949 he returned to Sioux City to become managing editor of The Globe, founded by Bishop Joseph M. Mueller and still prospering. 
On June 25, 1925, Ed married Lillian Handlin of Sturgis, S. D. TTie Lalleys have four children, Patricia Joan, James Ed­ward, Elizabeth Ellen, and Thomas Monroe, all of whom have been to college. The youngest, Tom, graduated from Notre Dame in 1959 and is now teaching high school at Liberty Center, la., near Dcs Moines. 
A long-time member of the Eagles and the American Newspaper Guild, Ed con­siders his recent years with the Catholic press the most rewarding of all his news­paper career. 
CONAGHAN, REV. JAMES CONNERTON,^ SHERWOOD DIXON, ED\VARD LALLEY, H. L. LESLIE, PAUL LOOSEN, JAMES N. McGIRL, EDWARD MADIGAN, E. J. MEEHAN, WALTER 
R. MILLER, CLEMENT B. MULHOLLAND, HARRY NESTER, JOSEPH P. 0'HAR^\, EU­GENE J. OTOOLE, PATRICK G. POWERS, ALFRED C. RYAN, JAMES H. RYAN, JAMES 
L. TRANT, ALBERT A. UEBBING. 
From the .•MumnI Oflicc: JIM RYAN w*as unaccountably discouraged from { covering his outstanding 40tli Annlversar>' Reunion in this Issue, but he'll probably have plenty to say in the fall. Suffice it to remark that a fine turn­out barely did justice to Jim's relentless promotion, with personal letters (on wonderfully evocative stationery), telegrams and even long-dlstancc tele­phone calls for the adamant. Jim uncovered the apparent deaths of WALTER DOUGL/\SS, FR,ANK 0»NEIL and J. LYLE MUS.MAKER. Tlie Alumni Office would appre­ciate confirmation of these deaths so that Masses can be offered and survivors notified. JUDGE CLIFFORD O'SULLIVAN, Port Huron, ( Midi., has several promoters, among them JIM WALLACE, M8, and JOHN C. COCHR.\NE, '23. They sent in clippings from Detroit papers cele­brating Federal Judge O'SulUx-an's promotion to tlic 6th Circuit Court of .Appeals, his confirmation by tlie U.S. Senate, his support—although he's a Republican—from Micliigan's two Democratic sena­tors, and his swearing in. Father of five. Cliff is a second generation Notre Damer, his father having come to the University as an Irish Immigrant. The Appellate Court sits in Cincinnati. Wallace wrote: "Back in *17 and '18—Brownson Hall days— Cliff was a modest cliap. Probably he still Is." Tlianks, gentlemen; but for you we would have { missed It. 
ALFRED C. RYAN had a busy spring. He and Mrs. R>-3n finally got away to Europe on the N.D. Pilgrimage after two years of frustrated plans. A trip was successively foiled by a debut party for their daughter Mary Susan, a party last year to announce her engagement, her marriage and the an­nouncement of son Michael's engagement. As the Detroit Ncxvs columnist said, "Love may make the world go 'round, but up to now it's kept the Ryans from going 'round the world." M's plans included a birthday party at Maxim's in Paris, and ^frs. Ryan was shopping for a Paris gown and g hat for Micliael's wedding this month. AI made f it back from Lourdcs, Rome, Florence, Milan, Lucerne, Paris, London and Dublin in time to make tlie Reunion. And son Alfred, Jr., *54, be­came a securities salesman with the Detroit firm of Kcnower, MacArthur & Co. 
1071 Dan W. Duffy 
•'^ ' nOl Superior Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
Tlic Cleveland Press showed Dan Duffy hard at work on the election board early this year. Dan was signing in judges who had filed for office ' this year. Tlie paper could have caught him at work on Cleveland N.D. Club affairs any day of the year. Tlianks to DAN CULHANE for fon*-arding the clipping. 
Tlie Florida Tlmcs-Unlon had a huge illustrated feature storv- on "Timber and the Fole\*s," the 5tor>- of how HAROLD FOLEY and his brothers Lester and Joe hewed out an empire from their lumber business In Jacksonville. Now they run the huge Powell River power development in Vancouver, Canada. 
Belated congratulations to JOHN E. KENNEY for his election as president and chief executive I officer of Foster Wheeler Corp.. specialists in the design and construction of petroleum and chemical processing plants. 
192 2 G. A. "Kid" Ashe 
• WM.M. j^g Landing Rd. North Rochester 25, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTR,\NTS FR,\NK B. BLOEMER, GEORGE KERVER 
Wc extend our sympathy to LEO LOVETT in Ihc death of his mother, and to FRED DRESSEL in the death of his father, and beg prayet^ for the deceased. 
Congratulations and best tvishes to MONSIGNOR MARCEL KELIHER of Omaha, who was invested as a domestic prelate to His Holiness Pope John XXHI on December 15. 
McHENRY COUNTY—Officers and members from Algonquin, Crystal Lake and Woodstock, III., at an organizational meeting of the '^il|N.D. Club of McHenry County, III., included: (seated, I. to r.) Fred Bimrosc, '55, secretary; Oliver Field, '31, director; Rev. Thomas 
C. Brady, '55, chaplain; guest James E. Armstrong, '25, secretary of the Alumni Assn.; Paul McConnell, '32, director; Joe Conerty, *44, president; and Jim Wcltzien, '55; (standing, I. to r.) Bill Conuay, *47; Don Freund, '55, director; George Costello, '40, vice-president; 
John Costello, '48; Joe Gubbins, '55; Jont Tyson, '55; Phil Riley, '49; Tom Parsley, '55; Tom Grodcn, '55; Bud Wendt, '52; and Vcmon Knox, *31. 
W'c do gratefully thank all who sent Christmas greetings to this Class Sccretar>-. TIic FRANK W. CONNELLYS of the San Fran­cisco Bay area went vacationing to Kau-aii in » mid-October. 
In early January FATHER GEORGE B. FISHER, C.S.C., gave a retreat to the Brothers of Holy Cross located at Xoire Dame and vicinitv. 
HONOR/\BLE AL SCOTT and wife,'Marion, were reported vacationing' at Laguna Beach, Calif, in late November. 
From St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas FATHER JOE RICK, C.S.C. writes: "I have been telling my friends that I have come out of retire­ment. It was really nice to do what one \\'anted to do on the spur of the moment, but since Father A'Bricn died here in Austin, his job was given to me and there is enough work to make one feel that 

hlie has a job, and if not Iiord, at least not one 
* that could be called retirement. Vic have four Holy Cross priests and I act as superior for them. Tliat is not difHcull but along with the job one has to be chaplain to the high school boarders, and that means a regular schedule with a lot of time spent un the boys. The Brothers have a wonderful scliool here and I am really happy to be able to help them in the training of Catholic Youth." 
Late last fall two teen-age duck hunters, accord­ing to the Chicago Tribune, were lost for several hours in a blinding snowstorm on storm-tossed Green Bay. They were lost after darkness came 

I on and the>- could no longer sec the shore-line 
' from their 12-foot skilTs. Finally one of the hunters spotted a faint light, aiid both hunters after making contact headed for the source of the light beam— the bnathouse of DR. HENRY ATKLN'SON, Green Bay Packers* team physician. Hank's son Henr>*, Jr., was just returning from a hunting expedition. Tlie hunters made it safely. 
JERO.ME DIXON, II, is President of the Senior law class at the Universitv of Chicago. 
It is real fine to know CHUCK CR^VWLEY has made a nice recovery- from a slight heart attack he suffered almost a year ago. He and wife, Madeline, 

. were planning on seeing the Pitt game in No-V vcmber, if possible. The Crowlc>-s reside at 598 Wellcsley, Weston 93, Mass. The mother of DR. DAN SEXTON celebrated her 89lh birthday in early February-. 
A HAROLD \VEBER writes that in late July, while enroutc to Alaska on a fishing trip, he had a lay-over of one and one-half hours at the Mln­neapolis-St. Paul Airport and that he spent most of the time trying to contact GEORGE and PAUL McDERMOTT by telephone, and without success. George and Paul arc both located at the Com-

i modorc Hotel, Holly and Western Aves,, St. Paul 2, Minn. The report that George moved to Port­land, Ore,, is erroneous. 
DR. EDDIE ANDERSON of Holy Cross is America's senior coach of a major college eleven. He has completed his 34th season as a football coach. 
BUCK SHAW had a high finish for his Phila­delphia professional football team. Too, Buck was 

selected to coach one of the sectional professional teams in the past season play off. Here is a delayed Christmas note from RAY KEiVRNS of Terrc Haute, who writes: 
"We arc all well. Michael returned yesterday from X.D. He will be graduated In June. I be­lieve lie is going to Indiana University for hts law. My second son, Raymond J., finishes two years of Army training in January. He has had three years at Xavier In Cincinnati. He will return to college. My eldest, John, is employed by Ana­conda Aluminum in their local plant. He and his wife are graduates of Indiana State U. with A.B. degrees. Tlicy have a fine young son—three years old. He is my only grandson. My daughter, Mar>* Frances, AB of Indiana U. Is married to a local doctor. I receiwd a Christmas greeting from Dix (JERRY DIXON) yesterday." 
LOUIS F. MOORE of Columbia-Genera Steel writes that he now has a new home address. His location is 691 West 650 South, Orem, Utah. 
Mary x\nn Foley, daughter of Mrs. Gertrude Folev of Portland, Oregon, and our beloved CHARLES "CHUCK" FOLEY of happy memor>-, went to Germany last July on a Fulbrlght Scholar­ship. Ann, as she is usually called, is studying at Frederick Wilhelm University and teaching Eng­lish at a girl's high school in Bonn. The people for the most part arc Catholic in tliat particular area. x\nn's mother, accompanied by a friend, left Port­land in April to visit the daughter and to sec a bit of Europe before returning home. Ann's brother, Charles, received his master's degree last fall. lie is with Boeing Aircraft in Seattle. Tlie Charle>- Foley's of Seattle have three children. 
Here Is one *'hot" ofT the fr>'lns pan of FR.-\NK OTT, to quote: 
**I was just reading over your letter of August 10, 1950 written in 103 degree heat in Topeka, Kansas. That Is 9 years, 2 months and 4 days ago, but it is one of my choice possessions along with a companion piece from AARON HUGENARD dated June 2, 1952. 
"So right away the campus days came roaring hack, as you always bring them back with your thorough reporting in the ALUMNUS, especially vour meeting up, at last, with the handsome DANNY SULLIVAN of Sorin Hall fame In Albany. 
"I was glad to re-read in your 1950 letter that LOU MOORE uTis Supl. of blast furnaces for Columbia Steel In Provo, Utah. Commuting to the Coast, I go there often and have alu*ays felt quite isolated In that beautiful Mormon stronghold. It is good to know we have roots out there in that model city. For 20 miles, I could sec the smoke from Lou's blast furnaces (Tut-tut! Lou! Is that good combustion?) i\s 1 moved south toward Spanish Forks and on into Alfonso Scott's town where I'll be with the family after November at 559 East Providcnda St., Burbank. Come out to California and we can pick camillias together.** 
Congratulations and best wishes to the gentleman from Atlanta, Ca., our own HARRY "HORSE" MEHRE on his successful election to the Alumn! Board. For years In the Southeast, Harry has 
successively coached football, been a sports writer 
and commentator for the .\tlanta Constitution, and 
presently is an executive in a soft drink firm in 
Atlanta. 
In mid-February, DAN YOUNG and Mrs. Young were airborne out of Dallas, Texas as guests of Braniff .-Mr Lines on inaugural flight of 707 jet ser\-icc of the company to South America. The Youngs were part of a group of 50 prominent U.S. business men and their wives who were invited to make the trip. Dan went as vice-president of Foley Bros., Inc. of Pleasantville, N. Y. and St. Paul, Minn. Dan reports the trip was a fantastic one wherein their group met with President Kubetschek of Brazil, and President Frondlzi of Argentina, also having dinner with the President of Panama and dining at the U.S. Embassy in Lima. At the U.S. Embassy in Panama, Dan had the great pleasure of meeting two '39 Notre Damers JOE HARRINGTON and DICK O'MELLA. Another N.D. man was there—FRANK FOLSOM, who made the South American and Central Amer­ica flight journey. On his return to Dallas, Dan contacted TOM L.ARKIX and that grand classmate BARRY HOLTON who has done much for Nai.-al aviation In the Dallas area in the years he served there, also, who seri'es as special representative of the President of Southern Methodist University In the field of public relations. Back home in Ard­more, Penna., the Dan Youngs reported a most daughter Mary Lou. welcome ^sit by CY KELLETT with wife and 
Waseca, Minnesota's D.\N COUGHLIX reports he received recently from one of his classmates a campus snapshot taken 40 years ago showing Dan and some of his classmates li; winter hiking attire. It was a real thrill. 
Campus visitors of our class usually make it a point to call on their classmate, FATHER ROBERT 
J. SHEEHAX, C.S.C., who delights in Wslting with them. By the way, please change his P.O. Box number from 126 to 568. 
JAMES VINCENT JONES reports 4 grandsons. 

Our very capable and popular Class President R^\LPH CORYN has retired from the business world according to information furnished by DR. Mf\TT WEIS of St. Louis. Happy retirement days to you, Ralph. 
We regretted to hear that JACK HIGGINS had to undergo some surger\' early in the year. We pray for full recover^*, and hope it is speedy. 
A brochure from the Catholic Travel Office,. Washington, D.C. announces formal schedule of Holy Cross Fathers' Pilgrimage to the 37th Inter­national Eucharistic Congress (Munich 1960) is under the Spiritual Direction and personal leader­ship of FATHER GEORGE B. FISCHER, C.S.C. 
Louis V. Bni^ner 

1923 
2163 Rivenldc Dr. South Bend, Ind. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS REV. JOSEPH- BRANNIGAN, OS.C, JOHN CHAPLA, THOMAS PLOUFF. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 51 
I'ATHER WALTER CO.WVAY, C.S.C., died Marcli 26 in llic Commiiiiily Infimi3r>' where he had lived since 1954- He was &I years old and is ttie fuurlh of tlie 1923 Iloty Cross Seminarians to have passed lo liis clemal reward. 
JAMES J. METCALFE, a widely syndicaled newspaper poet and former FBI man little known to iiis eislwhije Class, died in DaUas, Texas, on March 19, accoiding to word received by the Altnnni Oflice. He is survived by his widow and children. This last death, coupled with the death of LOUIS CIIES.VOW, B. Arch. '23, in January-, and that of FATHER FRED J. .MA.V.V, C. Ss. R. in December, brin];s to 03 the number of deceased classuiaies, or luore than 20 percent of our roster. 
News was also belatedly received of the death of Mi.i. -Marjorie Flinn. wife of NEIL W. FLI.N'X, in Superior. Wis. in December. Neil at Ixst reports is maintaining his home at 1817 Ogden Ave., Superi<»r. Wis. 
Travelers to Rt)me and other points overseas in­clude WALTER C. RAUBER, who retired from his positi»m with General Electric Co. after 37 years' service, and JOHN COCHRANE, who ilew to Italy with liis wife and left at about the time Walter and Mrs. Walter were getting there. 
EL.MER COLLl.N'S severed liis coniieclioiis in Turkey in January due to the illness of his wife in this country and is working again for his former employer, the Marbon Co. P.O. B(tx GS, Washing­ton. D.C. 
JOH.V V. CHAPLA was named .\(aii of the Vear by the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland at a break­fast ineeliiig of the Club early in .-\pril. 
JOH.V C. NORTON, an accountant for the Old Ecjuiiy Life Insurance Co. of Evanston, 111. was named ciiief accountant by his c«impany, according to a publicity release from Chicago in .April. 
On the sick and/or invalid list at last reports were LI.VUS CLOTZBACH, FRED A. STEELE, FRANK S. DORIOT, HENRY LAUERMAN, FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, CS.C. To the best of the knowledge of yonr correspondent, none of them is in serious condition, although in some cases the impairment of health is somewhat per­manent. 
GEORGE WACK, instructor of modern lan­guages at N.D. for many years, is retiring at the end i)f the school year in June. We trust this is receiving proper attention in other columns of this issue, this brief menton being only a safeguard against its complete oversight. 
Rev. Vitalis L. Jackson, O.F.M., son of AN­THONY JACKSON, .\ssimiption. III., was ordained as a Franciscan on June 24 and celebrated his Fiist Suleiim Mass in .;\ssuniption on June 26. 
HON. WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD, practicing law in Evansville, Ind., has no sons to send to 
N.D. but did the next best thing by sending all three daughters to St. Mar\''s—Kathleen, just graduated, plus Patricia and Maureen. He goes to all the games and is looking forvsard to the 40th Reunion in '63. 
lOO ^ James R. Mechan I T A t 329 s. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 
Rev. Kenneth Hodgson. O.P., son of Mr. and -Mrs. THOMAS H. HODGSON, Edina, Minn., was ordained to the priesthood on June 4 by the Bishop of Dubuque. lotva, and celebrated Iits first Solcnm Mass in Etiina on June 3. 
G. DON SULLIVAN, a former Iloosicr ncws­papennan, advertising director and sales personnel manager, has been named a special assistant to the president of the National Coal -Association in Washington, D.C. He came to the N.C.A. In the forties from the Indiana Coal Assn., which he headed as assistant to the president of Ayrshire Collieries in Indianapolis. Don and his wife Jeaime have two sous and a daughter. 
192 5 John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS RICHARD APP, JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, JO­SEPH A. BACH, JOH.V A. BARTLEV, JERO.ME 
A. BENNING, GEORGE A. BISCHOFF, LEO J. BOETTINGER, MAURICE BOLAND, WILLIAM BRAU.\SDORF, JOSEPH P. BURKE, CYRIL J. CALDWELL, CHARLES CVSEY, LvVWRENCE T. CASEY, WILLLAM J. CERNEY, CHARLES C. COLLINS, STEPHEN CORBORI, JOHN W. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
COURTNEY, EDWARD CUDDIHY, WALTER DR. BILL MOLONY (all the way from Los 
J. CYR, JULIUS J. DANCH, PAUL J. DOO-Angeles), BERNARD LEY, SPIKE McAD.AMS, LEY, JOH.V DROEGE, VIRGIL P. FAGAN, LEO GRiVCE, JOH.V STOKELY, CHARLIE JOSEPH FOLEY, ROBERT GORDON, J. LEO .MOUCH, JOHN COURTNEY, PAUL DOOLEY, GR-ACE, CL;\RE P. HAFEL, JOSEPH M. H.A-HANK ^TORZER, JOH.V MORAN, .ANSELM D. GERT\% J. KE.VNETH HAM.MOND, CL^VRENCE .MILLER, "PI.VKY" VI.VCE.VT J. SCHNEIDER, HARDING, JOSEPH P. HARMON, PAUL HART-LEO POWERS, CHUCK COLLINS, BILL CER­.\I.A.V, JERO.ME F. HERLIHY, FRANK W. .VEY, CHUCK CASEY, PAUL HART.MAN, HOWL.AND, JOH.V HURLEY, WILLLA.M C. EUGENE O'ROURKE, JERO.ME BENNING, HURLEY, CL,\RENCE KAISER, BERNARD G. BERNARD LIVERGOOD, JOH.V DROEGE, TOM RESTING, JOH.V KILKENNY, EVER^VRD CARFAGNO, JOHN KILKEN.VY, JOHN TR.W­KOHL, GEORGE LAUGHLIN, BERNARD W. NOR, JOHN HARTLEY and FRANK HOWL.AND. ( LEV, BERNARD LIVERGOOD, GEORGE LUD-
Through the "grape vine" of these letters, WIG, ED.MUND LUTHER, FR.ANCIS McFAD­learned JOHN TRAYNOR and JOHN .MOR,\N 
DE.N, DON C. .MILLER, GERALD W. MILLER, arc ganging up on F.ATHER JOH.V L\7s"CH to WILLIAM R. MOI.ONY, WILFRED MOORE, get him to have urgent business on the campus CHARLES .MOUCH, T. FRANK .MURR,\Y, 
on June 10, II, 12. 
JOHN A. .VOPPE.VBERGER, EDWARD F. 
nils grand guy GIL SCHAEFER called me in O'TOOLE, EDMUND A. POLHAUS, ARMANDO Columbus, O., to olfer his assistance on our re­J. PORTA, LEO J. POWERS, PAUL ROM-union. Gil lives on Hillcrest Dr. in Bloomfield WEBER, JOSEPH SCALISE, JOHN W. Sa\L-Hills, Mich. In addition to being an automobile L.A.V, GILBERT F. SCHAEFER, WILLIAM F. 
dealer, he Is a boat and motor distributor for SHEEILV.V, ALBERT SO.M.MER, JOH.V STO-Michigan and Ohio, so you "boat happy" 25ers KELY, HARRY STUHLDREHER, R.AY.MOND 
now have a contact. Gil has two sons and two .
L. TILLM.A.V, J. JOSEPH TO0LE.V, JOHN P. 
daughters. lie saw ED. POLHAUS and FR.ANK (TRAYNOR, FREDERICK UHL, WILLIAM E. 
HOWL.A.VD In Detroit on Universal N.D. night VOOR, ROBERT WORTH, HE.VRY WURZER. 
and JOH.V TRA^^NOR In .V. V. C. 
BEN RESTING was also a big help in stirring 
Our 35lh Reunion will be .i thing of the pxst up the engineers and architects of our class by when you read this, but my deadline is May 15th getting out a "Do you remember letter." Ben, so all I can tell you is that If the returns keep thanks a million from a grateful clxss. coming in on my questionnaire, and if the per­CLARE.VCE KAISER is regional Sales .Mgr. of 
centage continues to be as high with those who Nuodex Products Co. of Detroit. Clarence has a anssvered "I w-ill be back for our 33th," sve will daughter Jeanne, svlio hxs made C. J. a grandpop have a great reunion. Of the first 30 heard from. three limes. His boy Tom is a mcd. student at the 42 will be with us. The following fellows wrote— Univ. of Mich., receiving his B.S. from N.D. in YES C. J. KAISER, BE.V RESTING, EDDIE "58. BAKER, GEORGE ROHRBACH, JOE SCALISE, EDDIE BAKER Is a coriioration sec'y and con-. 
.MORRIE BOLAND, GIL SCHAEFER, EDDIE troller In Fort Wayne. He has a son and daughter, f POLHAUS, ED CUDDIHY, DON MILLER, Dr. Eddie would like to hear from PAUL DUFAND CV CALDWELL, .MORT STETTAUER, J. CLIFF and R.\Y TILLMAN. 
POTTS, BILL HURLEY, PAUL ROMWEBER, In answer to the question of continuing the 
TRIBUTES—Universal Notre Dame Night also witnessed the recognition of the following ' 
(clockwise from upper left): Cincinnati's John Fead (center with John Cottinghani and John Cronin), named Man of the Year for his alunmi efforts; Kentucky's Bernard Bowling, mayor of St. Matthew's (right, with Leo J. Brown, Jr., and Father Joyce); Spokane's Bishop Bernard J. Topel, with Thomas Lally; and Los Angeles' Eugene Kennedy (center, H-ith Father Joyce and President Morton Goodman), presented with a plaque as a re­tiring member of the Alunmi Board. 
- Football Cocktail Parties, MAURICE BOLAND answered: "Yes. but not in the basement of the Morris Inn: I'm beyond that stage where I •want to stand in line to get a drink or argue with someone abont a place to park myself. The '59 party is the first one I missed and for the above reason!" Morris my boy, you really shnnld have been in the Tower Room of O'SIianghnessy Hall in '59—We bad a pri\-ate gathering of '25ers. It was great! Thanks to Jim. Get your tickets 
^ ordered for Oct. Ijth, Mich. State, and all will \W be happy. Ahnost IOO*}J- of the fellows want to continue the FOOTBALL COCKTAIL PART^'. 
DR. WILLIAM MOLOXY, Jr. has an IHsb linenp—Sharon, Terry and Patricia. He's hoping to have a ronnd or two of jiolf on the campus in June. Ran into GENE MAS'L in Dayton and he has chal[ent!cd Miller and Suihldreher, so maybe these fellows are "your meat." 
GEORGE ROHRBACH. t«-achini; on the campus. said he saw BOB HURLEY and FRANK CULLEN and would like lo hear from FUSZ, and BOB HOWLAND. George. I haven't heard from 
, V BOB HURLEY since we left in June. 1925. Let's 
\9 hear news. Bob! DR. C. J. CALDWELL is an orthodonist in Cleveland and has llircc bovs. He has seen DON and JERRY MILLER, AD.VM WALSH, GEORGE H.AHN (your sec'y's Brother-in-law who has had three sons at N.D. and another coming up). EV. KOHL, FRANK NAUGHTON, and DAN SAM­MON. 
DON MILLER has five daughters and one son. IG years old. Don will be with us as president of our class. 
ED CUDDIHY of Chicago is Insurance nigr. of National Tea Co. and has three sons. Ed. Jr. . 24; Jolm, 22; and Patrick, 3 years. Eddie. I believe 
w you have the honor of having the youngest child in the class of '25. If I'm wrong, boys, come forth witli the information. 
EDDIE POLHAUS wrote he missed our 30tli (his first miss) but was looking for\\-ard to June 10th. Eddie is accounting supervisor of the engi­neering stair of the Ford Motor Co. 
J. CLIFFORD POTTS is an attorney In South Bend and lixs a son. P. C. Potts, who is a U.S. attorney. ClifT will he with us come June. 
AVILFORD WALZ is a lawyer and president of the Anu-rican Federation of Musicians in Si>uth Bend. He has one son. Wilfnrd was ejected 
• county prosecutin.ii attorney three times in St. Joe County, Ind. Renu-mber he played in the 
N.D. Band for four years. He has been active in music all his life. He says—'*I owe so much to Notre Dame." Don't we all! 
HANK WURZER came through again with a beautiful niennirial card and a letter urging you all to get back to our 35tli. Many thanks Hank. Wc should keep that Mass Fund built up. fellows! 
PAUL DOOLEY has his own business. .Manu­factures' Enameling Corp. in Toledo. He lixs two sons, Richard and Patrick, and they are fine lads. I'm godfather for one and Confirmation sponsor lor the other, so I'm partial. P.TII1 wouhl like to See JOE SCALISE and Joe's coming to the reunicui. 
• JOHN COURT.\EY is still smoothing things along the way as an abrasive and refractories salesman. He has five children. i>ne boy John— 
X.D. '50—and another Jim—N.D. '55. He an­swered "Yes. Yes, Yes" on the ipiestion of con­tinuing fiMitball cocktail parties. 
CHARLIE .MOUCH is in building construction in Sandusky, He has five children, one of whom is a priest. Charlie wi»ild like to hear from JOE TOOLEN and ^VALTER HAECKER. Hope they both will be with us in June. 
It is with sincere regret tliat I learned from the Ahmint Office of the death of Rulh Seidenstirker, 
• 
3585 East Fidton. Coluni!>us. O.. wife of WILLIAM 

J.
 SE1DE.\STICKER. Called Bill while in Colum­bus aiul expressed my personal sympathy as well as the sympathy of the class. 


JAMES ARMSTRO.NG has a fine family of five boys — John, Richard, Brother Philip. C.S.C., Gregory and Douglas, and also two grandsons. Jim's questionnaire was the first received but I'm listing it last, because it should be an inspiration to each of us. Jim wrote — '"I've told it at one 
_ time or another. I just have one recurring theme 
W these <lays — there has never been a time in my years here when Notre Dame needs so badly the interest and participation <»f otir older .•\Iiiinni. Many things are new, but principles, traditions and history must provide the sound base for the success of the new, and only the Alumni of all the years can keep this basic blend. Our Class lived in a great transition period. U*e can contribute 
_, greatly to the problems of this new era of trans­ition!" Jim. I'm sure the Class of '25 will be happy to do what it can with this philosophic thought and give yon its fullest cooperation. ^Iany thanks Jim, for all you have done for Our Class throngh the vears—to sav nothing of cverv N.D. ALUMNUS — a big TH.XNK YOU from alL 
From the .-Mumiii OlTice: 

The lines above were written prior to the 35th Reunion, on which JOHN HURLEY will have a complete report in the fall, 
JOE COLLIG.-\N was awarded a plaque by the Indiana Council of the Knights of Coluntbus as the ''outstanding Catholic layman in Indiana'' at the 
K. of C. State Annual Convention in Kokomo. 
JIM AR.MSTRO.NG has taken on further respon­sibility as president of South Bend's Catholic Forum, a I7-year-oId group of which he's a charter member, former secretary and governor. 
JOHN Sa\LL.\N, president of Pullman-Stand­ard, was also elected president of the American Railway Car institute at its annual meeting in New York early this year. 
Addressing a Phoenix nieeting of the Mortgage Bankers /\ssn. in April. JOHN P. TR.\YNOR, Mutual of New York's vice president for mortgage investment, warned that insurance investment in private home building will be seriously curtailed unless savings habits are changed. 
From Madrid. Secretary JOHN HURLEY re­ported on his European trip early in the spring: "Looks like football is taking over here. Bull fights are number two now. Had a great time with KARL MARTERSTECK, CHRIS COCH­RAN, VINCE McALOON, and BROTHER LOY­OL.\, CS.C.y tn Rome. Vince is doing a great job, BOB HAMILTON, '34. was also in Rome. Had dinner with NEAL HURLEY and bis wife here in Madrid." 
1 OOL Rudy Goepfrich 
* ^ 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRA-NTS JAMES DRISCOLL, J. ARTHUR HALEY. 

In .April, while in Toledo, I got together with .ART SUDER, our Midwestern vice-president for a nice %'isit. We wi-nt to lunch in a blizzard and by night it was so bad that .Mrs. G. and I had to stav over. 
FR.\NCIS W. CROWLEY is selling for Central Steel and Wire Co. in Chicago. He lives in Floss-moor, Illinois, with his wife and six children. Francis expects to attend our 35th reunion, as does DR. JAMES STACK, who is an .\LD. and ortho­pedic scirgeiHi in Chrcago. 
We regret that wy have to report the passing of three of our classmates since the last issue of the .ALUMNUS. They are BROTHER JA.MES OF MARY, F.S.C., BROTHER X.AVIER, C-S.C. antT REX EXRIGHT. Formerly at North Carolina and Georgia, Rex had been at the U. of South Carolina since 1938. He stepped down as coacli in 1955 but continued as athletic director. His widow and three daughters survive. The deceased have all been enrolled in the Purgatorial Society of the Holy Cross Foreign Missions. 
R.AY DURST, our past president and a member of the Alumni jVssociation Board of Directors, has been appointed Foundation chairman for the City of Chicago. 
Mail addressed to VINCE SOISSOX, CLEM SWEENEY, JAMES P. STEWART and RENE J. FR.ANSEN has been returned, marked "address unknown." Some who have recently moved are: JA.MES NEW.M.AX from Massachusetts to Los Angeles, California; FILANK J. COXROY from Camino, Calif, to Los Angeles; REV. I. FUSS­XECKER from St. Bernard, Ala. to Fort Lauder­dale, Fla. and EUGENE HAUSER from Largo, Fla. to Clearwater, Fla. 
Had a note from JOHX RYAN', our Class Presi­dent, who \'acationed during May but wants to discuss Reunion plans when he gets back. If any of you fellows have any suggestiotis about any special stunts which we might consider, please drop us a line. How many of you would like to have a Class of '26 golf tournament sometime during the reunion, perhaps on Friday or on Sunday? 
From the Alumni Office: EDWARD V. CROWE of Detroit, who died in a car-train crash since the above column was \vritten, has also been enrolled in the Purgatorial Society. Surviving are bis wife, five sons and a daugfiter. Ed was mourned by athletes of all ages in the Detroit area, as a former high school coach, founder of CYO and a leader in Catholic athletics for more than 30 years. 
DENNIS J. O'NEILL of Lakewood, O.. x%-as Class Day speaker at the Holy Cross Brothers* Gilmorc .Academy last spring. 
JOE DIENHART has become athletic ticket manager at Purdue, having served since 1943 in \'arious coaching positions, and continues as assist­ant athletic director. 
C. JOSEPH HYL.\ND has been named secretary of the management committee of General Aniline & Film Corp. He continues in the position of corporate secretary which he has held since 1951. With General .Aniline since 1942, Joe lives on Staten Island. 
192 7 Clarence J. Ruddy 
•'^' 32 S. River St. Aurora, III. 
Thirty-three years have passed since that June day in 1927 when we were graduated from Notre Dame. .As time is measured, that is exactly one generation. Looking forward from graduation day 
TERRE HAUTE—Season finale for the N.D. Club of Terre Haute, Indiana, was Universal Notre Danic Night, celebrated in the Bleu Room of the Terre Haute House Hotel. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 53^ 
a generation seemed ages away. Our parents were tliat mucli alicad of us. Successful men, alumni who came back to iheir 25lli reunions, were all much, much older than wc could reasonably con­template ourselves to be in the foreseeable future-Even 25 years, to say nothing of 33 years, looked like a long, long time. Looking back^\'ard now, wc can see how wrong wc were, 33 years is not long at all. We all can remember many of even the most ordinary incidents that happened during our college life, and wc can recall \ividly all the important ones. We can remember the priests, the professors, the halls and our class­mates — as they were then, of course. I think we will all agree that the intcr\xning years passed quickly, perhaps too quickly. 
During our years at school wc knew that we were not exactly at Xotre Dame; wc were Xotre Dame. We were as much a part of Notre Dame as FATHER W.-VLSH, COL. HOYXES, PRO­FESSOR PHILLIPS, PROFESSOR COOXEY, FATHER 0*HARA and other traditional figures. Our schoolmates were the Four Horsemen, the Knights of Columbus, the writers for the publica­tions, the Glee Club, the societies, the youths who made the Klu Klux Klan regret they had chosen South Bend for a convention. In short, wc were the young men who made the University. We believed wc were the center, the focal point. Tlie alumni at that time were simply the pioneers, we were tile real thing. In our not too modest view, we were the best the school had produced. Even now, Wc all sometimes still believe we were right. Hut that was a generation ago, it seems a short time, but a generation Is long enough for a lot of things to happen. The time has been long enough for most of the Class to have achieved prominence and success. Wc can count Judges, engineers, scientists, authors, businessmen, industrialists, scliolars, who arc respected in their respective com­munities for their character, and in their voca­tions for their accomplishments. The time has been long enough too for practically all of tis to have raised families, to see our own sons take tlieir places in the world and our own daughters to fulfill their places too. Unfortunately, time Itas been also long enough for us to lose some of our classmates. Some of the faces wc recall clearest will not be seen again. Notices conic with in­creasing frequenc>- of the deaths of classmates. Wc were all stunned a couple of months ago to learn of JOE ROLAND'S death. He undoubtedly was a representative of our Class and of the School to whom we could point as tv-pifylng the spirit, the cleanliness and the sportsmanship of Notre Dame. All people who knew him knew also his School, and from that knowledge formed a good opinion of Notre Dame. 
Others have died too, HARRY LYDDANE of Sacramento, California, died in Januar>-; DUNCL\N 
S. MacDON.ALD of Escondido, California, died in March, and so did FRANK G. MAYER of St. Paul, Minnesota. A short time later a classmate from my own City of Aurora, TED WIEST, died. Ted had been engaged in the trucking business for several years. 
AMtliin tlic space of a couple of weeks I have heard from tivo classmates, NEIL REGAN, 441 Londonville Road, Albany II, New York, and JACK REIDY, Neil is an indepcndant adjuster for insurance companies. Like myself he has a son at Notre Dame this year. Altogether, Neil has four sons and a daughter. All arc pretty well grown, except for a four-year-old boy. JACK REIDY Is practicing law In Cleveland, a partner In the firm of Falsgraf, Kundtz, Rcldy and Slioup, 1050 Union Commerce Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio. He gave a lot of news. Among other things he told me that CLETE SCHNEIDER ('29) and AL GRISANTI ('31) had organized a lunclicon meeting to celebrate the 25th Anniversary* of FATHER JI.M MORtVN'S ordination. Father Jim is Pastor of St. Helen's Parish at Newbury, Ohio. You will remember that Father Moran (Jim) was a teammate of PAT Ct\NNY*S on the boxing team. 
Pat Canny, Incidentally, was in Aurora a short \vhilc ago and I spent an enjoyable session with him. He was on his way to New Orleans for a rate hearing for the Erie Railroad Company, of whicli Pat is assistant general counsel. His term as president of the Alumni Association expired a year or two ago, but that has not caused him to be one whit less enthusiastic about anxthlng that ccncems Notre Dame. 
JACK REIDY also stated that at a luncheon to organize the celebration of Father ^foran's Jubilee, CL.\\T LEROUX was present. He also infonns me that JOHN BUTLER continues to practice law in Cleveland, has a large family and Is looking 
54 Notre Dame AlumnuSj September, 2960 
forward to the marriage this summer between his 
oldest son and the daughter of a grammar sdiool­
matc of his. Joe Swecne>' likewise Is bus>- prac­
ticing law, BOB O'BRIEN, who was at Notre 
Dame the first two or three years of our sojourn, 
has lived in Cleveland for several years and Is 
local head of the Heppcnstall Company. 
Jack really gave me a lot of news. I would like 
to receive ibout 15 letters like that from \-arious 
classmates cver>- month. 
From the Alumni Oillce: 
LOU CONROY, general marketing manager of 
Michigan Bell Telephone, has brought out a 
brochure on the Industrial grow*th of Detroit. 
VINCE McN.\LLY, general manager of the 
Philadelphia Eagles, signed Norm Van Brocklln 
for his last playing season, may use Iiini to 
succeed BUCK SHAW, who has announced that 
I960 will be his last year as coach. 
LEW HOUGH of Denver has been working on special fuel problems of the .Atlas missile with Stearns-Rogers Mfg. Co. 
RED SMITH, mentioned prominently In this issue as a parent, has again been picked by his peers as the top sportswrlter of the year. Red Is biisv this summer with the OI>'mpics In Rome. 
EVERETT BROWN Is thoroughly enjoying 
himself In Spain in a large modem apartment 
whicli t.-»»sts him just $35 per month. You can 
reach him at Escolta Real, No. 48, Piso-I, San 
•Sebastian, Spain. 
P.VUL BUTLER, the stonny petrel of the Democratic Party In the past few years, has finally stepped out of the national chainnanship after the convention with thanks and the gift of a trip from the National Committee, 
19^ 8 Louis F. Buckley • ^^^ 68-10 108th St., Forest HilU 75, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANT JOHN FREDERICK. 

Word has been received of the deaths of the following classmates since the last issue of the .\LUMNUS:,JOHN D. STEWART, ALFRED R. MORIN, DAVID GIBSON, FATHER NORMAN JOHNSON, C.S.C,, PETER BEEMSTERBOER and BOB KIRBY. Our Class Treasurer, TOM HART, has arranged for a mass to be ofTered for each of these men. 
JOHN D. STEWART, who began with our Class in 1924, died of a heart attack on November 
I. 1959 in Battle Creek, Michigan, John was director of press and information for the OfHcc of CinI and Defense ^(obilization. John attended the Pulitzer School of Journalism at Columbia University after Ica\ing Notre Dame. John was editor of the Washington Post until 1942 and later ser\'ed as nc^vs editor of the Washington Post & Times-Herald. John is survived by his wife, two sons, a daughter and six grandchildren. I am indebted to AL DUFFY of the City of New York Law Department for the lead which enabled me to contact Mrs, Stewart concerning John's death, 
ALFRED MORIN died February 18 of a heart attack In Glenbrook, Connecticut. At, who was with our Class from 1924 to 1926, had worked as an assistant druggist and in insurance. He is sur­vived bv his wife. 
DAVE GIBSON died on November 18, 1959, at his home in Cathedral City, California, as the result of an occlusive coronarj-. Dave was claims manager for General Insurance Company of America at Temple City Office in Callfoniia. He is survived by his wife, two sons, five grandchildren, his ^ ^ mother, two sisters and a brother. FATHER ANDY MULRE^VNY, C.S.C., reports that sL-c members of Dave's family attended the Mass ofTcred at the request of the Class for Dave. You will remember that Dave sent a mailing to the CIxss In preparation for our 25-ycar reunion, BERNIE SCHUH, who was also from PIvTiiotitli In our student days, has kept In touch with Dave since graduation. 
Many of you may remember FATHER NOR.M.\N JOHNSON, C.S.C., who was a seminarian In our ^ ^ Class. Father Norman always kept In touch with mc and never failed to respond to my many mail­ings. He died after a long Illness on February 3, I960 at Tripler, U.S. Army Hospital in Honolulu, Hawaii. A native of Chicago, Father Johnson was a lieutenant colonel in the .-Mr Force Reserx'e. He was the author of several Air Force character formation manuals. Including "Living and Leader­ship." His ser\'ice as a chaplain wxs primarily in the Far East. During World War H his decorations included the Air Medal and .-Vsiattc Pacific ribbon with two battle stars. Father Johnson scr\"ed for six years In Washington as editor of the Holy ^ ^ Cross ^fissions Magazine. I saw Father Johnson last summer In South Bend and he expressed his usual interest in the Class. 
PETER BEEMSTERBOER of Dayton, Ohio, died suddenly as the result of a heart ailment while In his hometown Chicago on business on February 26, 1960. Pete has been employed as a superx'isor by the Frigidaire Sales Corporation, Dayton, Ohio. He is siirxivcd by his w-ife and son, who is a prc­mcd student at St. Joseph's College. I liad a nice note from Pete recently in which he con­cluded, "Again thanks and much appreciation for the many news\' articles concerning the Class of '28 In the N.D.' ALU.MNUS." ^ 
BOB KIRBY was probably the best known man in the Class of '28. He attended all of our class reunions. He never failed, when called upon the lost minute for some nc\vs, to liven up this column with his keen sense of humor. Bob died in his home on March 17 while watching television. He was owner of the Kirby Mortuar>' In India­napolis. Indiana Governor Harold W. Handley commented as follows: "As vice-president of the Indiana Toll Road Commission, Mr. Kirby did much to put that project on a paying basis. j\s vice-president of the Indianapolis Indians, and In his many other civic and sports enterprises, he ^ ^ made this city a finer place in which to live. ^ P Such citizens cannot actually be replaced. Wc can only hope to carr>* on what they have splendidly begun." Survivors Include Bob's wife, two sons, four daughters. Ills mother, two bro­thers, a sister, and eight grandchildren. 
AI Roche made the following comment In his column: "Tlie prominent and just little guys about whom you never hear, nor read, gathered by the hundreds yesterday to say *So long' to BOB KIRBY, vice-president of the Indianapolis Baseball Club and ever\-body's friend. For an Irishman's smile, I never saw the likes of him. So, God chose to take him on St. Patrick's Day, May ^ God continue to love him and bless him." ^ r 
DR. DAN BR/\DLEY had an excellent article, entitled **What a Catholic Doctor Should Be," In the May 1960 issue of Information. Dr. Dan was nominated by the students at Molloy College for the Bishop - Knoll award which Is made annually to an outstanding Catholic la>'man whose work in the lay apostolatc merits distinction. 
Our Pulitzer Prize winner, ED MOWERY, and I arc members of the same parish In Forest Hills, 
^VICHITA—Officers guiding the N.D. Club of Wichita in 1960-61 are (from left) John 
L. Weigand, '54, president; R. Grahani Starr, '39, vice-president; and Edward P. Franken, '49, secretary-treasurer. 
^N . Y. Ed continues to do an outstandms Job as feature writer for the Ncwhousc chain o( news­papers. He has a daughter who is a senior in high school. BILL DOWDALL recently wrote how mudi he enjoyed reading Ed's article en­titled "Presumed Dead" in the February- I960 Argosy Magazine and a scries of articles on "Blue Cross" which he saw in the Harrisburg Patriot-News. 
I was pleased to receive the report as of April 4, I9G0 that our 30th reunion gift from 237 class­
' ^ mates lias anioiuited to $22,592 for the Father Walsh Living Chair. The Committee responsible for promoting this fund included MIKE RICKS, chairman, GEORGE COURY, BILL DALY and CYP SPORL. 
The Class Report in the Spring 1960 issue of Xotrc Dame indicated that the amount contributed by the Class of 1928 was by far the largest of all classes. Since this report indicated wc were not first, however, in the percentage of alumni partic­ipation, VIXCE Cx\RNEY and JI.\f ALLx\X pre­pared a letter which u-as sent to all classmates 
^ tirging eacli to contribute to the Fund this year 
• ^ so our Class can be first in rate of participation. 
Several reports have reached me about classmates who have been ill. BERNIE GARBER reports that his colleague at L. T. Corbin Co., STEVE SHERRY, is having difliculty with his back and is on crutches noiv. TO.M HART and JOHN IGOE advised that JIM SHOCKNESSY had been in the hospital for a much needed rest. VINCE C^VRNEY visited BOB EVANS in Januar>'. Bob had a cere­bral hemorrhage a year ago, but is able to be back at his lumber business. Bob lias a son and a daughter and six grandchildren. JINf PARKER, is in a mental hospital in Jackson, ^lississippi. 
^ JIM ALLAN mentioned that BURT KORZEN had a rather serious eye operation which appears to have been successful. DICK GREENE of Muncic has had two hernia operations since September. Dick commented that he didn't know that punch­ing a t>'pcwriter and lifting a pencil could be so strenuous. ANDY BOYLE liad a heart attack in December. 
I am pleased to report attendance of '28 men at a number of get-togethers. Your class sccretari.' saw the following classmates at a New York dinner given bv Stonehill College announcing Cardinal O'Hara ILilI: Dr. DAN BR/\DLEY, EUGENE FARRELL, BERNIE GARBER, BOB HAMILTON 
S and HERBERT McCABE. In Chicago, at the annual Notre Dame Night dinner, JIM ALLrVN, BILL KE/\RNEY, DICK PHELAN, BERT KOR­ZEN, JOE GRIFFIN and JOHN RICKORD were present. ED McKEO^\•N and JOHN RICKORD attended the K.D. Chicago Club Communion Breakfast and heard FRANK CRE^VDON sing with the Paulist Choir. HOWIE PHALIN and ED McKEOWN attended the N.D. K. of C. fiftieth reunion. Incidentally, since your class secretary also ser\-ed as a grand knight of the N.D. Council, I wonder if there is any otiier class with three former Grand Knights of that Council. Is that another first for us? 
9 Both JOHN IGOE and GEORGE COURY report some good get-togethers in Florida. John at­tended the Orange Bowl with George and JOHN DORGAN. John refers to his visit with ART DENCHFIELD as a tropical class reunion. GEORGE LEPPIG, CHET RICE, F. X. O'BRIEN and HUGH .McCONAGLE, '29, were on hand to moderate the flow of Notre Dame stories, old and new, that marked the evening. GEORGE LEP­PIG has retired from tlie Marines and is now using his talents in the role of county safety director. 
F. X. O'BRIEN, who was with our class for two —_ years, manages one of Bachc & Company offices m in -Miami. He called JOHNNY SMITH, so they could have a visit with "Clipper." HUGH Mc-
GONxVGLE is deep in plans for a key development south of Miami. 
FRANK CRE/\DON sent a picture of a get-to­gether at ED BRENNAN'S home in Chicago. In addition to Frank and Ed. It included DR. FRANK HETREED, '29, and IRV CORCORAN, '29. FR.\NK CREi\DON's son, Pat, is tenor soloist this year in the N.D. Glee Club. FATHER JIM McSHANE, S.J., got together with TO.M 
^ WALSH in Lincoln, Illinois, on his way home from giving a retreat in Peoria. WILI*f\RD WAGNER spent an evening with his old Freshman Hall roommate, JOE BRENNAN, in Phoenix, Arizona, where Joe ts manager of the Sears store. Joe has two teenage girls and a boy. BILL MURPHY talked to KIRWAN WILLIAMS in Little Rock, Arkansas. Kirwan sells General Motor trucks. He has four girls. 
RHODE ISLAND—Featured on U.N.D. Night were (I. to r.) Rev. Robert Newbold, Rhode Island Club chaplain; Philip B. Toole, dinner chainnan; Edward W. Krause, University athletic director; and Brother Paul Schowycr, G.S.C., who accepted the N.D. Man-of-the-Year award for Brother Francois Guilfaault, C^.C., principal of Hendricken High, Providence, R. I. 
GEORGE COURY saw JOHN MURPHY at their high school reunion in Little Rock. John had come in from Ft. Smith, Arkansas, where he is in ihc hotel and restaurant supply business. John and his late brother, Connelly, and OSKAR RUST were in Subiaco Academy together before lhc>' came to Notre Dame. Oskar is president of the Subiaco alumni group. Tlie Arkansas Dem­ocrat of February' 6, 1960, carried a story about George making a substantial gift to Subiaco Academy. ED ^fcKEOWN sent me a clipping from the Miami Herald for February 14, 1960 which carried a picture and column by Helen Wells, en­titled "George Sums Coury Career: Rags-Riclies." 
I have had the pleasure of seeing or talking to a number of classmates recently. I enjoyed very much a luncheon get-together in Pittsburgh with our former class treasurer, JACK SHEEDY. Jack is with the Lincoln National Life Insurance Com­pany and appeared to me to be the best known man in Pittsburgh by the number of friends he met while we walked to lunch. Jack mentioned that he sees CHARLIE TOTTEN at .Mass. Charlie is with the Forest Lumber Company. I also had good sessions with DR. FRxVNK HEGART\* and TURK MEINERT. I talked to CHARLIE SHORT in Philadelphia where he practices law. Charlie has a son at Holy Cross College and two younger children in grade school. I was sorry to hear that Charlie's wife has been ill. I also talked to GLEN HATCH in Philadelphia. Glen has two grandchildren. Glen is with the Hercules Cement Corp. A luncheon with HERB Mca\BE, vice-president of Guaranty Truck Company of New York, gave me an opportunity to be brought up to date on Herb, whom I have not seen in a number of years. He does considerable banking business with public utility companies throughout the coun­trv-. Herb has one son who was graduated from Georgetown University in foreign trade and another son at Princeton. Herb mentioned that RUS RILEY is with the New Jersey Public Utility Commission. He also reported that LOU CAR now lias a haberdasherv* shop in New Jersey. 
BILL COYNE and I spent an enjoyable evening with DR. JOE SULLIViVN and his family in Bethcsda, Mar\'land, where Joe is with the National Institute of Health. I also had a good session with BILL COYNE, '27, and JACK DALY, in Wash­ington. Jack is still practicuig law in Burlington, Iowa. I visited AL DUFFY at his office in the City of New York Law Department where he is an attorney. AI received his law degree from Fordham University. He has two children. AI mentioned that AL TAYLOR is an attorney with 
U. S. Customs in New York. AI inquired about TOM NOON. Incidentally, Tom's mail has been returned unclaimed from the Marine Corps Base, Camp Lejune, Jacksonville, N. C. I would ap­preciate receiving his current address. 
I was pleased to receive the following note from JOHN C. FONT^VNA: "Our good friend JOHN IGOE, also known as *Mr. Notre Dame,* is still carr\'ing on in his usual exemplary fashion; he is winning one Catholic au*ard after the other, and in between he devotes a lot of time to an in­vestment club to which we both belong and in which Wc both lost money — I guess we keep picking the dogs. JOE KIXNEARY and I sec each other quite frequently for the reason that we both practice law from the same building, and have now relegated ourselves to a four o'clock tea-drink­ing' situation (instead of the corner bar). JIM SHOCKNESSY is still the big man around the campus. PAUL FALTER is still the bailiff at the Industrial Commission — I see him practically evcr>- day while passing through the State Office Building. Incidently, as for myself, in addition to practicing law, I have now taken on additional duties in becoming executive counsel to the office of Senator Stephen M. Young; I still remain in my office In Columbus, Ohio, so drop in and see us." 
AL SCHNURR, who is an architect in Sandusky, Ohio, visited RAY WORDEN in South Bend. AI sees his old roommate, RUSS SMITH, who is In the concrete redi-mix business in Sandusky. 
KENNETH T. POWER is the new Republican commissioner of elections In Rochester, N. Y. He is also active in the Knights of Equity and was installed recently as Sir Knight of the Rochester Court. ED McCLARNON has been appointed as claims manager in charge of the 80 John Street Claim Office of the Travelers Insurance Companies in New York. Ed joined the Travelers Insurance Companies in 1928 as an adjuster at Detroit. He has 5cni*ed as claims manager in Cleveland, and xVlbany. ART SCHEBERLE of Detroit is director of the Catholic Information Apostolatc. A friend of mine who knows DR. S. D. SOLO.MON tells me tliat Dave is practicing medicine in Gettysburg, Pa. I understand that Dave Is interested in fVrabian horse breeding. Dr. Solomon has four children, one of whom is a senior in the foreign ser\-icc school at Georgetown. ^^K E RICKS visited the TO.M GR.\YS in Ireland. Mike has a son in Morcau Seminary, another at Purdue, and a third at Georgetown. Mtke is now a grandfather. He also has children In the first and seventh grades and In high school. 
HAROLD P. REYNOLDS is back In Chicago practicing law and has four children. BERNIE ZIPPERER is now living at 1943 Neshota Drive, Mobile, Alabama. 
The New Yorker magazine In the December 26, 1959 issue carried a clever advertisement from the Clearfield, Pa., Progress announcing closeouts at Leitzingcr's. JOHN LEIT2INGER, who has the largest family in the Class, eleven cliildrcn, has been in the department store business In Clearfield since graduation. 
Mark your calendar and be sure to attend the following Class of '28 events: Our annual cocktail party will be held In O.'Shaughnessy Hall following the Michigan State game on October 15, 1960. On October 22, 1960, after the Northwestern game in Chicago {£\-anston) all 28ers are innted to sip at the home of our class president, JIM 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
ALLAN, 1423 Fargo Avenue, Chicago, Drop Jim 
a note saying ''I'll be there." 
From the Alumni Office: 

\nce-prcsidcnt BERN GARBER reports the following: "John Culline\% eldest of Kae and LARRY CULLINEY*s five, has been accepted by Vale for September admission and plans a career in medicine. . . . GEORGE COURVs family is featured in the July 3 'Florida Living,* a Miami news supplement, with a full color picture on the cover and a center spread stor>' called Mth of July -— Lebanese Style,* with many indoor-outdoor photos of family activities. N.D. is mentioned several times, and Georgc^s 5100,000 gift. Interest­ing rt-ading, especiallv for classmates.*' 
FRANCIS \VALL/\CE wrote: "JOHN (BULL) POLlSK\'*s sister was buried the dav after JOE BOLAND died. NIEMIEC, JIM HARRIS and I were pallbearers. We had a little memorial service of our mvn.*' 
Secrctar>- LOU BUCKLEY is quoted regularly in the New York Times as regional director of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, only it doesn't take Lou*s expertise to tell us that prices have gone up 24% in the last decade. 
1 929 ^" T Staudcr Engineenng BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANTS REV. THO.MAS J. LANE, C.S.C., JOSEPH NASH. ROL.AND SCHLAGER, CLETUS SCHNEIDER, JAMES TOBIN. 
SYL\^ESTER "DOC* DOUGHERT\' and Mrs, Dougherty took time to mail us a card from London, where he will present a paper before the British Iron and Steel Institute. They will go to Rome and later to Paris. If this bit of news doesn't stir a bit of cn\y in you, and your wife, you are unlike the LARRY STAUDERS. We have some compensations in that some of Rome comes to Notre Dame. REV. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE, C.S.C., Superior General was on the campus for much of 2ifay. AVe had the pleasure of several cliats with him. He continues to express his ap­preciation to his classmates •wbo were here for the thirtieth reunion and remembered him with the greetings album made up at that time. Father CTooIc was here for the funeral service of FATHER PATRICK HAGGERTY. C.S.C., in eariy May. Father Haggerty had been ill for some time. He had been living in the Community Infinnar>' for the past few years. Walsh Hall has lost some of the status that it had when we arrived on the campus as freshmen. But Rector PAT HAGGERTY of AValsh Hall will live on in our memories and will be remembered in our prayers. 
ROCCO PERONE of Cincinnati was fathcr-of­the-bridc at a post-Easter wedding of daughter Mary Elena to Curtis A. Eininger. ED DONOHOE, if you don't read the society page, read the '29 column for your hometown news. 
LARRY LEACH, son of EARL LEACH of Grand Rapids, Michigan, w-ns a student in your secretar>-'s class in the spring semester. For a meclianical engineering student in a class of elec­tricals Larry compiled an excellent record — in spite of the prejudices of his prof. You may recall that RICHARD LE.-\CH finished at Notre Dame in *56, JOHN in *58 and now LA^VRENCE in *60. Margaret is attending Aquinas in Grand Rapids. We saw Red at the Navy Game and look forward to seeing him back for the Michigan State game. 
The Michigan State game is at S'otre Dame this fall and will be played on October 13. It has been suggested that an after the game get-together for members of the Class of '29, their wives and friends be scliedulcd. Our pioneer effort to have such a Reunion was for the '58 Army game. A similiar meeting was held after the '59 Na\y game. About 80 people attended each and have repeatedly said that thc>' enjoyed the opportunity of re­newing old friendships, Tlie major problem of the local committee is that of obtaining a suitable meeting room on the campus. Tliere arc few rooms on the campus that arc suitable for this t>'pe of function, and the competition for these facilities on a popular football week end becomes ever more keen. At this dale your sccrctar>* is not in the position to promise facilities the equivalent of those of '58 in the Dining Hall or of those of *59 in O'Shaughncssy Hall but he and the local committee will do what they can. AVc arc not interested in repeating get-togethers 'wliicli require promotion to 
55 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 2960 
REV. JOHN J. WALSH, '30 As Prophesied, a Debt-Defying Builder 

In August, 1933, when John Walsh asked Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. (now John Cardinal 0*Hara, Archbishop of Phil­adelphia), to send a letter of recommenda­tion to Archbishop Edward D. Howard of Portland, Oregon, for seminary acceptance. Father O'Hara wrote: "John Walsh has the abilitj' to go from parish to parish paying off debts." Archbishop Howard wrote to Walsh, saying: "Please report to St. Thom­as Seminar)', Denver, Colorado, by Septem­ber 21st." Two years later he wrote again: "I am directing you to go to the North .American College in Rome.** Ordained by Cardinal Marchetti at North American on March 19, 1937, Father John was assigned to St. Mary's Cathedral, Portland, Ore. After five busy years, he was given his first parish of Monroe-Harrisburg, Ore. \VorId War II brought on a scarcity of public school personnel, so he offered to coach the grade school and then the high school asked him to coach. The roof of the parish house leaked, so he begged the shingles from a nearby lumber company and put them on himself. 
In 1945 he was sent to St. PauFs, Silver-ton, Ore. An old atheist college building had been used for many years as school, church and convent. Father Walsh was awarded an army chapel from Camp Adair as a memorial to his cousin. Father Richard Carberry, who died in the Japanese War (brother of "Judge" Carberry, '23, of New York and "Judge" John Carberry, '30, Los Angeles). This chapel was transformed in 
1947 into a brick church, and the next year, a beautiful school and convent combination was built, and the little parish of 180 fami­lies had a $ ^ million plant 
In 1952, Father Walsh was assigned to Holy Family Parish, Portland, Oregon. He first built a rectory in 1953: the school and church were both too small, so a combina­tion school and church addition was com­pleted in 1957. This summer a new con­vent for thirteen sisters will be ready. 
obtain an artificial apparent popularity. If you w 
wish us to make arrangements similar to those of 
last year, let us know. If you have not attended 
those functions but expect to attend the proposed 
meeting, by all means w*rite to us. 
Sometime ago, HUGH MacMiVNIGAL fon\-arded 
a letter that he had received from LOUIE SIN­
CLAIR, Battle Creek, Michigan, the letter in part 
follo^^'s: ... . "I haven't returned to the campus 
for a class reunion for some time. I have kept in 
touch with ROBERT WARD, *28, who was my 
roommate in Badin Hall. He is an attorney in A 
Marshall, Michigan, just 12 miles from here. I ^ 
sec HAROLD STEIXBACHER, who is now a 
circuit judge here. FRED GRJVVES is employed in 
the post ofHce here but I recall no other '29ers 
who live nearby .. . I have had a long siege of 
illness and am busy tr>*ing to get the ofHce 
straightened out again. I took a trip through the 
south the summer of '58 and had a long vbit with 
DAVE Sx\XON at Memphis. Had I known your 
address I would have looked you up. I bought 
two lots in Venice, Florida, a fc^v years ago and 
have been tr\'ing to see my way clear to move 
there with my wife to make it our residence. ^k 
"I have worked at the Enquirer and Xcws for ^ thirty years, and have charge of the neu*s room. It is a tremendously interesting job but it keeps one humping. My wife, Garcia, who is a counselor at the high school here and has a master's degree, enjoyed raising a family of two bo>'s and one girl. My oldest boy, 29, works with me as telegraph editor of the Enquirer. He is married and has a daughter and a son, 
*'My second son is in college. My daughter is married to a young doctor who is nou' stationed at the U. S. Public Health Hospital in Lexington, Ky. Tliey liavo one daughter. 
'*At one time I was ver>* active in civic affairs ^k and almost anything else that came along. One ^ ^ of my sidelines was making speeches about inter­national aflairs. I did a lot of traveling in those da>'s but no\%* stay closer to home. I am first vice president of the United Press Editors of Michigan but have limited my activities consider­ably. 
"Speaking of tlie fellows I would like to see, here is just a sampling: CLETE SCHNEIDER, one of my best friends and a swell fellow; TOM RYAN, the flash from Rushvtlle; BOB NEWBOLD, who had enough sense to keep many of us out of trouble; JACK ELDER, who used to rough me up bet\v'cen classes almost c%'ery day; JACK JACHYM, ^ whose ability at playing hearts was expensive for all of us; LOUIE KREMM and ED A\*ELCH, who used to put on a show for the natives ever>- time they went downtown; MINK SULLIV/\N, the handsome brown-eyed boy; Mv\NFRED VEZIE, one of the finest fellows I have ever known; GUS DEITER, Joplin's pride; and the LEACH brothers, RED LAWLESS, FRANK BELTING, BILL JUDGE, BILL DWYER, TOM CASEY, AUSTIN DOW'NS, MARSHALL KIZER, FRANK CROWE. TOM SHE.\, VICTOR WOESTE, JIM DWYER, and many, many others. 
"rv e often thought that someday when I am inspired I am going to sit down and write a ^ ^ story about what life was like in a boys' school 30 years ago, especially when you were trying to hold down two or three Jobs like I was and also attempting to crack the books occasionally. There's worlds of material in picturing life at Bro^^'nson Hall, the drama of the dining halls, Sophomore and Badin Hall and above all the religious atmo­sphere and the traditions surrounding Notre Dame, ^[y children never would believe half of the things that liappencd to me when I was in college. I guess life for the young and aspiring is different now. 
"Well, Hugh, it has been nice talking to you ^^a ^ the printed word and I hope that I'll be seeing you " soon. Best regards, Louis Sinclair." 
TED DCBAES'E, a senior in engineering, son of ED DeBAENE of Detroit, was a top competitor with WALTER LxVNGFORD'S successful fcndng team. 
JOHN REAGER, superintcndant and general engineer of the Water Department of Perth Amboy, New Jersey, and son Jack were campus visitors in April. He had the pleasure of a visit with FATHER THO.MAS STEINER, CS.C. and with RAY SCHUBMEHL. ^ 
From the Alumni Office: As president of the Subiaco Academy Alumnt Assn., OSKAR RUST of Greensboro, Ind., wel­comed a gift of §50,000 to the school by ^liamt*s GEORGE COURY, '28. Former roommates at Subiaco, both have strong \-iews about the need for continuing pri\'atc education. 
P Coach LEO SCHRALL's Bradley Braves base­ball team finished second ni the Sitssouri Valley Conference. 
JOHN P. (CLIPPER) SMITH «-as awarded the Gold Key Avx-ard of the Connecticut Sportswriters' Alliance, the first Xotrc Dame man to u-in that honor. 
DR. PAUL BARTHOLOMEW has been elected a vice-president of the Midwest Conference of Political Scientists. 
The SKth annual FREDERICK C. MILLER »Mcniorial Scholarship has been won by Emil Peter 
•H I of St. Xavier High School, Louisville. His father is EMIL PETER, JR., general sales manager of Falls City Brewing Co. Tlie scholarship was founded in 1955 by the brewing industry in his honor. 
During the American sojourn mentioned above FATHER OTOOLE went down to Austin, Tc-sas, to receive an honorary LL.D. from St. Edward's University. 
IO3 Q Devere Plunkett 2 O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANTS ANDREW A. ANtAN, WALTER BERNARD, -MICHAEL J. BISHKO, RICHARD BLOO.M, AUGUST L. BONDI, THOMAS J. BRADLEY, ADAM J. BRAY, KARL T. BRENNi\N, WIL­LIAM H. BRO.MANN, F. JOSEPH BUTLER, JACK &VNNON, C. J. CAREY, JACK &\SSIDV, WILLIAM E. CASSIDY, LOUIS C. CHAPLEAU, BERNIE CONROY, EDWARD G. CONROY, PATRICK CONWAY, LAWRENCE CRONIN, DOUGLAS DALEY, FREDERICK DEL,\NY, ED­fWARD J. DEMPSEY, J. FR,\NCIS DRISCOLL, WILLIA.M DUNLEVY, ROBERT F. EGGENL\N, EDWARD ELLSWORTH, LAWRENCE EN­RIGHT, ARTHUR ERR,\, PAUL FAR.MER, FRANCIS A. FINK, WARREN S. FOGEL, HARRY H. FRANCIS, JAMES FRIEL, THOMAS 
W. FROST, ARTHUR GALL,\GHER, HUGH GALL/VGHER, JOHN W. GIBBONS, JOHN D. GOLDEN, .MORTON GOODMAN, JOHN F. HEALY, PAUL HEIDKAMP, ROBERT HELL­RUNG, JOHN E. HIGGINS, JEROME P. HOL­L,\ND, ROBERT HOLMES, R,\LPH JOHNSTON, THOMAS A. KEEG.\N, THOMAS KENNE,\LLY, 
KGENE KENNEDY, LEO J. KENNELLY, THO.M­
•.\S
 J. KERRIG,\N, FR,\NCIS G. KERSJES, CHARLES KLEFEKER, CL,\RENCE J. KOZ,\K, BAYARD KURTH, THOMAS F. L^VNTRY, THO.MAS L,\WLER, JAMES LE.\HY, JA.MES 

E.
 LE;\HY, CHARLES LEXNON, F. WENDELL LENSING, ARNOLD R. LEVANDOSKI, NOR­MAN F. LILLIG, WILLIAM J. Mc&\RTHY, JAMES E. McDERMOTT, THOMAS McDOU-GAL, GER,\LD -McKAY, PAUL MAHAR, THOM­,\S MEDUVND, FRANCIS M. MESSICK, JOHN 

T.
 MORAN, JOHN V. MOR.\N, CHARLES G. MORRISON, JAMES O'KEEFFE, TIERNEY O'ROURKE, ARTHUR E. PETERSE.\, DEVERE 


LUNKETT, J. GILBERT PREXDERG.VST, 'JOHN QUINN, EDWARD REDMOND, WIL­LIAM REISERT, SAMUEL E. RICHARDS, JAMES S. RIGNEV, JOHN H. ROXEY, JOSEPH RUPPE, RICHARD J. SAVAGE, LEO J. SC.\N­LON, DONALD SCHETTIG, WALTER SCHO­Lj\ND, FREDERICK D. SCHOPP.MAN, WIL­LIAM SHERMAN, ALBERT SHIPACjVSSE, JACK SIGLER, SA.MUEL F. SILVESTRO, HAROLD 
N. SI.MFSO.V, VERNON JAMES SL^VCK, HOWARD SL,\VIX, ROBERT SLO.VN, CHARLES 
T. SMALLWOOD, LOUIS STETTLER, DONALD SULLIVA.\, JAMES SULLIVAN, RICHARD ,SULLIV,\N, EDWARD J. SWEENEY, JOSEPH F. iri.MLIN, TIMOTHY J. TOO.MEY, JOHN D. VOSS, JOH.N A. \VALKER, WILLIAM WALSH, 
E. THOMAS YORKE. 
From the xMunini Ollice: Because of a deadline mix-up. Secretary DEVERE PLUNKETT was not permitted to report in this issue on the triumphant 30tli of *3fl. hut some of its color has been caught in the Reunion Report on other pages. Professor P. will probably pass out bouquets more precisely cither in a newsletter or Kile next issue, but the editor would like to send immediate thanks to FRAN .MESSICK, BOB HOLMES and all other striver^ on the local com­mittee, to "CHICK" DRISCOLL and the officers for their part in making the past reunion even more memorable than the Silver Jubilee. One of the outstanding events was the building of a Senior Loan Fund which approached $5,000 by the week end. As the Class may already have 
TULSA—Among the featured performers for the Tulsa Club*s Universal Notre Dame Night ^vere (I. to r.): Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., principal speaker; Bishop Victor 
J. Reed, honored guest; J. A. LaFortune, University trustee; and Jack Mohatt, Club president. 
heard, that project will be continued as a memorial for \"oIuntar>' contribmions until December 31, 1960. All who may have been strapped for funds before the reunion are asked to keep the Senior-Saver Fund in mind in the future and to help make it one of the outstanding single-year gifts of the Notre Dame Classes. 
One of many celebrities on board was Los Angeles attorney- MORTON GOODMAN, recently elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles. Mort made the columns in his native Chicago when he said he didn't regard the election as unusual: "What*s so startling about ha\ing a Jewish president? Our national alumni president (HARVEY FOSTER, '38) once was a Protestant." 
Another reunionist, JIM FRIEL, got a dividend in July. His daughter Lynn and son-in-law ALL/\N (BUD) POWERS, '51, of the N.D. Foundation, presented him with a granddaughter. 
Boys* Clubber DAN CULH^VNE reported that the Class' JOE ABBOTF was one of the principals in Middle Atlantic Region meetings of the B.C. of A. 
Class Day in June again proved that blood will tell. The j . SINNOT MYERS Burse for merit in editorial writing u-as won by JOHN P. N.-VNOVIC, '60, son of JOHN L. N/VNOVIC, editor-in-chief of the old Juggler. 
Among the recently deceased of the Class was BROTHER RUPERT FOUDRIER, C.S.C., who had a long and distinguished teaching career. Please pray for him and for all other classmates who have passed away in recent months. 
1 931 James T. Doylc 
• ' ^ 902 Oaklon St. Evanston, Illinois ­
. REUNION REGISTR.-VNTS JOHN McMURR^W, WILLIAM O'.MALLEY. 
Thanks In news sent to the Alumni OOicc we have had items in the '31 column the past few issues. I hope that my activities will now slow down slightly so that I can preserve my reputation among my fine classmates as a worthwhile secretary. I have items on my Hst from the golf outing in Chicago last summer and here it is time for the 1960 golf party. Last fall my wife and I drove over to Detroit and had the pleasure of a wonder­ful evening with Marie and HEINIE KOPEK. We tried to find MATT GARRIG/\N, but he must have been out of town that weekend. I have sent JI.M McQU.VID several magazine renewals lately and as usual, I always get a u'arm note from Jim and Marie. Jim had to change his location due to the tearing down of his former headquarters. It is now Bo?c 21, VIncennes, Indi­ana, 50 keep sending your subscriptions to him. Tlicy arc looking for\%'ard to the 30 year reunion in 1961. Jim and Marie met AUSTIN BOYLE at the N.D. retreat last summer. Austin is with the Whiting Bank. They abo saw JACK ELDER, his 
wife Kay, and their ten children at VIncennes. They also report seeing Dorothy and JERRY BALL on their way home from N.D. I saiv BERT METZ­GER and DON PARTLAND at the NJ). Club of Chicago Communion Brunch' at the Blackstonc Hotel last December. GERALD ASHE, brother of our fine classmate TOM .ASHE, was in attendance also. Tom sends an occasional card with a promise to do better. He gets around Chicago frequently but it is always 20,000 feet in the air. GEORGE COSTELLO calls regularly and keeps mc posted on our foreign classmates. He Is wondering about LOUIS GODOY after seeing him in Chicago over a year ago. HARRY KENNEDY has written George that he would be on hand for the 1961 reunion. George also received an announcement of GEORGE SPALDING'S silver Jubilee as a Xav­crian brother and suggested that the class honor him on the occasion of his anniversary by haWng a Mass offered for hfm. TliIs I did and received the following letter whicii I am sure alt of you will enjoy: 
"Many thanks through you to the Class of '31 for the spiritual offering on the f>ccasion of my silver jubilee as a Xaverian Brother. It ivas very kind of YOU-JVLL and our mutual friend and classmate, the ever thoughtful GEORGE COS­TELLO. 
"Through the years I've been fortunate to keep In touch with some of the bo>-s—TO.M CONLEY and family, FRED REI\L\N, the Barrs in Chal­mers, Ind., JIM BARR is an executive in the Gulf Shrimp business down In Texas and travels often. Was in Geiie\'a sometime this year. Notre Dame lost his brawny son to the Texas Christian football squatl. 
"That evasive fellow Hx\RRY KEN'NEDY—Notre Dame's gift to Coca Cola in South America—sent a cablegram for my jubilri.-. 
*'During my tenure of Svo years teaching in Boston I sau- JACK SAUNDERS and ART Mc-M/\NMON a,few times and was their guest. Tlie same is true of JACK BR^VDY of Pawtucket, R. I., who did graduate work with me and who had visited my home. 
"I've managed to partiapale at N.D. festivi­ties with the jUumni Clubs in Boston, Baltimore and Utica, N. Y., and just this past week I made the head table at the Notre Dame dinner in Louisville, where FATHER JOYCE u-as the hon­ored guest. He was made a Kentucky Colonel by our Governor. 
"I'm finishing five years here at Flaget, a school which every few years sends our Alma Mater an ^\Il;American. PAUL HORNUNG, for instance. Last year It was BOB LEHMJVNX, a powerful, fast lineman who is considered All­/\nierican timber. Of this fine lad one priest on the campus stated the University hoped this boy would be the first Rhodes Scholar among Notre Dame athletes. 
"And this year it's a real good basketball player named Tom Finnegan (love that name!). He made the All-National Catholic guard who makes 7o per cent of his shots. V/e woa the state championship with this lad who averaged over 20 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1960 57 
points 3 game for the past two seasons. 
"Sorrs" I missed you when ^"ou passed through 

Bardstown in '58. You'll have to make it a repeat 
trip thLs !.ummcr and take in our magnificent 
summer drama, "The Stephen Foster Story,*' writ­
ten by Paul Green, and presented in tlie outdoor 
ompliitheatre on the beautiful grounds of the Old 
Kentucky. Tlic home town is jammed all through 
July and August. (This is a plug, son!) It is 
expected to run several yexirs. The nuxcd chorus 
of the show is out of this world. I saw it 10 
times last summer. 
"All this gives me an opening to plug my mas­

ter's thesis! Who ever heard of a thesis tliat 
has gone through three editions and is still selling. 
Tlie fourtli edition comes out this month. Title: 
'Bardstown—Town of Tradition.' Getting a real 
good press from the Louisville Courier-Journal with 
a feature storv' in the Sunday mag within the next 
two or three weeks. 
*'Without boring you I hope I want to tell 

you how it all happened—the thesis, I mean. In 
a July 1934 issue. Time magazine with Its charac­
teristic impudence attacked the traditions of Bards­
town wonderful Catholic cathcdml. I was doing 
graduation work at Xotrc Dame that summci. 
Tlie President called me to his oflice and said. 
'George, you ought to answer that charge.' 
"I did—with a 100-pagc book. Would you re­

member the name of that President? Ycs-suh. 
boss! It was His present Eminence John Car­
dinal O'Hara! 
'*And Vm still at the writing—this time a novel 

called *71ie Old Congressman.' It will take me 
to Baltimore for the summer (though the setting 
is Kentucky-) where we have a summer writing 
workshop. But next summer I'll be looking for­
ward to that 30th reunion at Notre Dame. Please 
put In a few \\-ords with the Man Upstairs for 
me about this novel. It's vcr^* important to me, 
and a great cliallenge. 
*'God love you—and all the Class of '31.— 

/s / Brother Martin John, C.F.X. (Pen name 
Matt Spalding}" 
I had a note from Jcny Crowley who saw the following '3lcrs at the So. Cal closing game of the season: WALT aVHILL, BILL LEAHY, PAMM FOLEY, BOB SMITH and HANK CHAM­BERS. I ran into PAUL DUNC/VN a few weeks ago, but time was too short for a visit. I saw FRANK HOLLAND one morning last fall and occasionally sec his side-kick RED O'CONNELL. TEX BERNING sent a dipping through the Alumni office showing BERT MALONEY, smiling member of the Silver Platter Club, an Austin, Texas, baseball boosters club. I received word of the death of our classmate NORBERT J. COL­LINS, Yonkers, N. Y., and on behalf of the Class sent a Mass offering to his mother. GEORGE JACKOBOICE sent a card from the Ri\iera. George, his wife and three sons had been touring the entire continent. Tlicir son George entered 
N.D. last September. D/\N HALPIN Is heading the Notre Dame Football Reunion Group of the 1929 and 1930 Championship Teams. It sounds like it will be a terrific affair. BUD GEIS, Kalispcll, Montana, found time to drop a note this spring. He has finally heard from his pal, EDWARD J. FLYNN, who is now in Los An­geles and still connected with Republic Aviation Co. He heard from ED SHEERIN at Christmas, but has lost track of JOE DUNNE and G\RL GAENNSSLEN. Both tlicIr children are now in college and Bud is completing his new home at Lakeside, Montana. He is another who is already planning on the 30th In 19G1. 
Among the missing at Universal Notre Dame Night in Chicago wus DON OTOOLE. How­ever, he had an excellent reason to be absent. Don w*as downstate at the Eastern Illinois N.D. Club where he had the very great pleasure of presenting to REV. C. BOURKE MOTSETT the award of Notre Dame Man of the Year. I cannot imagine any two people more genuinely Interested in that particular action. Don and his wife. Marion, were with R^VLPH DALTON and JOHN BELTON and their wives. Ralph is with the American Savings and Loan Assn., and John is in the wholesale candy business. Don reports tliat our Reverend C. B. Is as bouncy* as ever and has done a magnificent job not only In building a fine scliool, but also in reducing the debt substantially over the past four years. 
It is not too early to make plans for our thir­tieth reunion in 1961. Please let me hear from you on this as a list of those attending will help to stimulate interest. 
From the Almnni Office: When not speaking at Universal N.D. Night 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
LEO D. KEATING, '33 Viking Athletic Thane, a Living Legend 
A new sports regime began this spring at .'\tlantic City (N.J.) High School when Leo Keating took over as the fourth direc­tor of athletics in the 50-year history of the post. The Atlantic City Press commented: "A more Hkely choice than Leo Keating could hardly be imagined, for he is one of the living legends of Blue and White sports." 
The Press cited the fact that Leo is one of only 13 four-sport lettermen in 66 years of varsity athletics among several thousand Atlantic High athletes. A "watch charm" quarterback in football and track sprinter, he won nine letters in major sports. Four letters were in baseball, but he \vas most memorable in basketball ("dazzler of his era . . . fifth Viking basketeer to be a mem­ber of four consecutive \'arsity teams, and the only player in all ACHS histor>' to lead his team in scoring three successive seasons"); he was county scoring champ in '29, having been runner-up in '28. Leo ended his playing career with every scoring record: field goals, free throws, shooting percentage and total points—the last not topped until 1958. In '29, after two pre­vious All-Star mentions, he was unanimously chosen All-State Forward and led the Vi­kings to the state championship finals. 

Alatriculating at N.D., Leo inevitably gravitated to Irish basketball and im'ariably drew a large pilgrimage of Jersey fans to Philadelphia for tke annual game with Penn. Teammates included All-American Ed Krause and John Jordan, now the Uni-versit>''s athletic director and basketball coach, respectively. Graduating into the depths of the Great Depression, he toiled for a year as a laborer before realizing his dream—to teach at Atlantic City High. The dream has lasted a quarter of a centur>% most of it in physical education as head football and baseball coach. In 1959 he clima.\ed 17 years as baseball mentor with the first South Jersey championship for the Vikings in 29 years. Leo has five children, Leo, Jr., Nan, James, Loretta and Letitia. 
dinners, DON CTOOLE has been blasting Wash-^ 
ington politicians for delaying construction on the 
"Cal-Sag" Canal, a key part of his Lake Calu­
met project. 
In Austin, Tex., BERT MALONEY promoted 
an interfalth dinner on Brotherhood Week as a 
leading Catholic lax-man and a member of the 
N.C.C.J. 
JOHN E. McINTYRE, vice-president and gen­
eral manager of South Bend's Sible>- Machine & 
Foundry Corp., has been elected president of the 
Gray Iron Founders Society. Inc. ^ 
Chicago's chemical tycoon AL STEP^VN was " 
the subject of a ver>- flattering profile in the 
Chicago Tribune last March. 
BERT MALONEY won an honorary* LL.D. 
from St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. 
1 Q^ 9 ^^^^ Kcnmorc Road 
• ^^ ^ James K. Collins Shaker Heights, Ohio 
ED DcBARTOLO has added the Thistle Down race track in Cleveland to his real estate holdings^ and is personally overseeing the operation of It this^ year. He bought It for $5,000,000 and has added considerable more to that in improvements. 
Ed is the major stock-holder and president of his building corporation which has constructed and is operating more than fifty shopping centers throughout eastern Ohio. He has several more In the process of being built this year. 
Our deepest sympathy Is extended to TED HxVLPIN on the death of his wife, Marian, early this year. Ted hxs one son, Car\'. who is a student at Crelgliton University Medical School. 
A note from WALT KIOLB.VSA tells he has changed his surname to Kolby, and that all mail^ should now be addressed to WALTER A. KOLBY, 2800 Milwaukee Avenue, Chicago 18. 
Tlic two \icc-president5. FATHER JOHN WIL­SON and FATHER JERO.ME WILSON, were active in their official capacities at the Knights of Columbus Fiftieth Annivcrsarx*, and wc were for­tunate to have a good visit with them. 
Among recent clianges of address are: WALTER NOON/\N to 170 Electric Avenue, Wester\*ille, Ohio; RAY FOX to c/oTheo. Hanim Brewing Co., Box 3493 RIncon Annex, San Francisco; NICK RUFFING to 25 Christie St., Nonralk, Ohio; RALPH CALETRI to 1922 E. Main St., Warsaw,^ Indiana; JOHN ZIMMERS to 202 Scquoya, Frank-W fort, Kv; DICK LVMBERT to 7330 W. 58th Place, Summit, 111; JOHN CONWAY to 31 Knickerbocker Road, PIttsford, N. Y.; NOBLE HARBAUGH to 8050 DcGarmo, Roscoe, Calif; and TOM LEWIS to 7126 S. Paxton Avenue, Chicago 49, 
Preliminaiy plans were discussed aliout having a Class cocktail party after the Michigan Slate game on October 15. If anyone Is interested, drop mc a letter and we shall sec what can be arranged. 
From the Alumni Office: The New York Times recently pictured SALVA-^ TORE BONTEMPO, New Jersey's conscr\-ation ­commissioner, teaching the wife of Governor Robert Mc>Tier how to cast for trout. Attornej- EDWARD F. O'MALLEY of East St. Louis, 111., recently ran unopposed as an Incumbent Signal High School board candidate. Ed has seven children and somc%vhat of a vested interest. 
R. C. STREB of MassUon, O., was awarded membership In the DIeboId Incorporated's 100% Club for the 11th consecutive year of the 12 that he has spent with the company, manufacturer of bank and otfice equipment. Membership Is given in recognition of consistent scr\'Ice to customers.^ He and his wife Margaret have a son, Timothy. ^J 
In New York RICHARD T. RONEY has been promoted to publisher of the Conover-Mast Pur­chasing Director)', an industrial buying guide for which he was assistant publisher for six yean. 
193 3 Joseph A. McCabe 
17^ ^ 2215 Lincoln 
Evanston, Illinois 

REV. FRANCIS J. BURTON, C.S.C., has been^^ assigned to Notre Dame College in the Ramma area of Dacca, Pakistan, for the past three years, handling the college accounts. Before that he had been a missionary' at the Archbishop's House. After the last trip home in 1957, be returned \'ia Amsterdam and Rome, saw mucli of the Eternal City and had two audiences with the late Pope Piu3 XII. Father Frank's niece Marie h a no\-ice of the Sisters of Charily (B.V.M.) at Mundclein College this fall and his nephew John just became an Eagle scout. TJicy arc children of his brother JOE BURTON in Clinton, Iowa. 
JOHN McNAMAR/\, principal of Washington High, in South Bend, recently moved his school to a beautiful new building, the old edifice now housing a junior high school. 
Monogrammcr WILLLVM D. (DON) MARTIN, 
counselor for the PcnnsjK-ania Bureau of Vocational j^Kchabililation, has spent the summer taking ^special courses at Yale. A Pittsburghcr, he hopes 
to come to the campus for the Pitt game. THOMx\S C. (CLxMR) KE.\RNS was recently ad\-anccd by Seattle's First National Bank to the office of assistant executive vice president, with headquarters in the Spokane and Eastern branch at Spokane, Washington. Previously assistant cashier, Clair has been with the S. &, E., as it is known locally^ since graduation. 
1 93 4 '^' Edward Carey ^ 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTR:\NT REV. JOHN WILSON, C.S.C. 

From the Ahinini Office: 
1 he following was received in the spring from BERNIE HENNESSY, then in Elmira, N. Y.: '•After winding up a day of business activity in Bini^hamptun, the writer pulled into the Mark Twain here In Elmira where, almost as if by plan, none oilier tlian G. J. (JERRY) .ANDRES was waiting right at the front door. This sur­
^prising. and certainly ver>* pleasant, encounter was followed by a most enjov-ablc dinner together. Happy reminiscences just sort of got us all buttered up inside. Jcrr>" has become very much a Roch­eslt-rian and has his own manufacturer's agent business. He has several top-flight lines of elec­trical components, and his business is prospering. It was only because of his bring involved in the cnnsiimmation of some big transaction that Jerr>­missed being in attendance at our 25th Reunion back in June, 1959. He promises most faithfully to be on hand for the 30lh." 
BOB CAHILL forwarded a new cliapter of an 
»
N.D, success story In a Chicago neighborhood news­paper-— a report on the grand opening of a new addition to tlic Moran Supply Co. Established bv EDWARD ^^. MORAN in April, 1946, in a two^ car garage with oflicc in the basement, the newest expansion means a more than tenfold increase in space in 1+ years, plus a huge new parking lot. Expanding through such innovations as helicopter deliver^', Ed lives in Elmhurst with his wife Arlene and three children. 
PATRICK J. SULLIVAN, head of public re­lations for General Dynamics, had an entertaining and thought provoking article in America maga­zine in the spring. Called "Madison Avenue 
^Mafia?" it is a defense and un-debunking of the 
Vadvertising-p.r. industrj-. 
HUGH DEVORE, beside developing some vcr\­good \-arsity football prospects as freshman coach, has been in much demand as a speaker, starting in January- with a fine performance in Boston at the 14th annual Swede Nelson Sportsmanship Dinner, sponsored by the Gridiron Club of Boston. 
At the age of 48, the average man raising a family of six children — one an N.D. grad, a second in nurse's training—tends to be conscr\'a­tivc. Not so ROBERT T. FORTUNE of Omaha, Neb., beginning a new career this summer after graduation from Creigliton School of Law. Forced 
ftby the Depression to forego law study. Bob got his A.B. with the help of summer employment as a steel and construction worker and spent subse­quent summers with JOE SAVOLDI on the pro­fessional wrestling circuit. He also became a lieutenant colonel in the Army Corps of Engineers, serving during W. AV. II with the Ohio River Division, rose to president, director and general manager of the Joyce Lumber Companies of Nebras­ka, Iowa and Illinois; was an officer in the W. T. Joyce Investment Co., Chicago, and a private in­
^vcstor in the Clinton County (Iowa) Lumber Co. 
^Bob had a few law credits, but not until his oldest son, Tom, was graduated from Notre Dame in '57 did he resume his studies seriously at Creighton U., finishing in June to practice in the Omaha area. Congratulations, Bob. 
Since July I E. F. (ED) FITZMAURICE has been general manager of the Pcrkins-S.O.S. division of General Foods Corp., Chicago. Ed had been 
^general manager of Perkins, manufacturer of Kool-
JOHN B. LiVND, '34 At G.E., Challenges in Jobs and Giving 
One of the many N.D. men who have followed careers with G.E., J. B. Land was appointed manager of Industrial Sales at the end of last year in the Cincinnati office of General Electric Company's Ap­paratus Sales Division, capping an exciting series of executive assignments. 
In his new position, John will be re­sponsible for sales of a wide variety of ap­paratus to industries in the Cincinnati, In­dianapolis, Louisville, Dayton, Evansvillc, Ind., and .•\shland, Ky., areas. For the past year, he has been manager of Sales Plans and Training for the Apparatus Sales Division in Schenectady, N. Y. 
A native of West Frankfort, III., John joined General Electric's Test Program in 1934 after receiving a B.S. in electrical en­gineering. He served as a test engineer, first in the manufacturing section of the Large Turbine Department, Schenectady, and later in the Wire and Cable Depart­ment, Bridgeport, Conn. He became a field sales engineer in 1939. After nine years, first in the Philadelphia ofiice as a district cable specialist for the Atlantic Division and then mth industrial sales in the Pitts­burgh offices, J. B. was named manager of Petroleum and Chemical Industry Sales in 1948, returning to the general office in Schenectady. In 1955, he was named man­ager of combination sales and three years later ^vas promoted to manager of Sales Plans and Training. 
John is a member of the American Pe­troleum Institute and the Chamber of Com­merce. As a parent he appreciates the matching gift plan whereby G.E. gives to the school of an employee's choice. He and Mrs. Land have one son, John, a 1958 Notre Dame grad who has been doing graduate work at Catholic University, Washington, D. C. 
.-\id, soft drink and salad dressing products, since .April, 1959, and will continue to run it in com­bination with the consolidated &.O.S., producing wxshing and scouring products. 
193 5 Franklyn C. Hochrciter * *' ' 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Md. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN ALLEN, JOHN ANNAS, VITTORIO G. ARCUXDI, RICHARD BALLIET, JOSEPH BEACH, JOSEPH BECK, GEORGE BELTE.MACCHI, \nL-LIAM BERNARD, WILLIAM R. BERNARD, WILLIAM BERNBROCK, JOHN BERRY, GLENN BLj\KE, CILVRLES A. BRAGG, JACK BRAY­MER, JOHN BREEN, RAY.MOND J. BROD­ERICK, JOHN J. BURKE, WILLLVM BURK­HARDT, JOSEPH P. BURNS, BROTHER FER­GUS BURNS, CS.C, ANTHONY CAMPER­LE.\GO, ARTHUR &\REY, FRED J. CARIDEO, VICTOR CARTON, CHESTER CHi\NDLER, JOHN CLARK, JAMES COLL, JAMES P. COL­LERAN, CHARLES COXLEY, JOSEPH CON­LON, .ARTHUR L. CONR.\D, REV. J,\MES CORRIG.VX, S.J., JOHN T. CORRIG,VN, CON­NOR CRONLN, JAMES R. CROXIN, i\NTHONY CROWLEY, CORNELIUS CROWLEY, JEROME 
J. GUSHING, ALFRED JOSH D'AMOR^X, HUR­DIS DAUSMAN, A. L. DE.MERS, GEORGE DEMETRIO, LEO ^L DILLON, FRANCIS DI­NEEX, JOHN DOOLEY, JACK N^YE DUFFEY, FR,\NCIS A. DUNN, JACK EDWARDS, J. MAURICE FAIRHExVD, WILLIAM J. FARRELL, DONALD FELTS, PAUL FERGUS, PATRICK 
J. FISHER, W. J. FIT2GER.\LD, THOM.VS J. FLYXX, ROBERT L. FORBES, GEORGE FOSS, JOHX FOY, XORMAN FREDERICKS, JOHN 
G. FRY, KARL D. FULNECKY, THOM.AS GALL;\GHER, MICH,VEL GAUL, JOHX GER­RITS. REV. H. A. GEUSS, CS.C, WILLIAM P. GORGEN, CWIILLE GR,\VEL, ARTHUR GREG­ORY, L. J. GROSSO, P.AUL A. GUARNIERI, ARNOLD C. HACKENBRUCH, PAUL H:\L­
BERT, R. J. HALEY, JOHN HALLBERG, JAMES H.VMILTOX, FALMORE B. HARRIS, NORBERT 
W. HART, DONALD R. HAVERICK, WILLIAM HErVRN, PHILIP HEINLE, MARTIN HENDELE, 
REV. THOMJXS E. HEwrrr, cs.c, JOHN D. HEYWOOD, TH0M<\S L. HICKEY, JOHN W. HIGGIXS, CECIL HOBERT, FR,\NK HOCH­REITER, VINCENT HOGAN, J. FR,\NK HOL­AHAN, JAMES R. HOWARD. LOUIS HRUBY, RICHARD HYDE, GEORGE ISSELMANN, DONALD G. JACOBI, JAMES JENNINGS, JOHN J. JORDiVN, JOSEPH KALEY, RAY­.MOND B. KRXTING, WILLIAM C. KEEFE, CYRIL KELLEHER, WADE KELLEHER, WIL­LIAM KENNEDY, .lAMES KEOUGH, EDWARD 
J. KIL.MURRY, EDWARD KIRBY, PHILIP KIR­LEY, JOHN KREBSER. ARTHUR KRANZ­FELDER, GEORGE KRUG, ANTHONY S. KUHARICH. J. L. L,\FFERTY. THOMAS La-LOXDE, JOHN LANG, ALBERT G. LAIVTON, ROBERT E. LEE, EDWARD LelEUNE, CARL LINK, JOSEPH LYNCH, JOHN McARDLE, JAMES V. McA\'ENEY, ALBERT MCCARTHY, DR. W. J. McCRALEY, GEORGE McGRATH, FRANK McGUIRE, JAMES MacDEVITT, ANDREW R. MAFFEI, ROBERT MAKER, RrVYMOND F. MARGRETT, JAMES MABOHN, FRANK MATAVOSKY, JACK MATTHEWS, WALTER J. MATUS, \VILLIAM MILLER, C. R. MONTGO.MERY, ARNOL D MORRISON, ROBERT L. MORRISSEY, WILLIASI MOSS, ARTHUR MULHOLLAND, JOHX NEESON, CHARLES J. NOVAK, JOHN NOVAK, RAY­MOND W. OAKES, BERNARD O'BRIEN, WALTER O'BRIEN, WILLIAM J. O'CONNOR, ARTHUR F. O'NEIL, GENE O'REILLY. JOSEPH OTT, IVILLIAM OTTE, THOM.AS OWEN, JOHN PENDERGAST, AUGUST PETRILLO, JOHN S. PETTINGILL, \VILLIAM E. PFEIL, JAMES PICK, CLARENCE J. PICKARD, JOHN POR­CORO, PHILIP J. PURCELL, JERRY RANK, ALBERT RAVARINO, ROBERT ROGERS, MAT-­THEW ROXZONE, AL RUBLY, JOHN J. RYAN, WILLI.AM F. RYAN. .MATHIAS .SAG.\RTZ, MICIL\EL A. SANTULLI, RICHARD SCHAGER, CHARLES M. SCHILL, ROCCO V. SCHIRALLI, 
JOSEPH W. SCHMIDT, WILLIAM H. SCHRO­DER, ANTHONY SCOLARO, JAMES SEYMOUR, ELI J. SHAHEEN, ROBERT SHANAHAN, MICHAEL SHEEDY, JAMES H. SHEILS, ROBERT SHIELDS, JOHN SHODRON, ROBERT 
F. SIMMONS, KURT G. SIMON, EDWARD SIMPSON, EDWARD SKEEHAN, JACK SLAT­TERY, EDWARD J. SMITH, LAWRENCE 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 59 
SMITH, THOMAS STANDISH, THOMAS STRINGER, JAMES SULLIVAN, REV. VINCENT 

C. THILMAN, CS.a , THOMAS THOMPSON, WILLIAM TOUMEY, NORBERT TOUSSAINT, JOSEPH UNDERKOFLER, DOMINIC VAIRO, JOHN M. VanETFEN, EDWARD VanHUIS-SELING, DOMINICK VARRAVETO, FRANK VEE, EDWARD \^Y2RAL, THONLVS WALSH, JOHN F. WALTER, RICILVRD WALTERS, JOSEPH W/^SHKO, JOHN W. WATTERS, a\RL UXBER, FREDERICK W. WEIDNER, THOMAS WELCH, FRANCIS J. WELDON, CLIFFORD >\'ELSH, SAMUEL E. WEST, CHARLES T. WILLIAMSE.\, JOSEPH WISCHNIA, GENE WITCHGER. LINCOLN WURZER, DANIEL J. YOUNGERMAN. 
From the Alumni Office: Secretary FR^VNK HOCHREITER, resting on his laim-Is after his unprecedented labors on the Silver Jubilee Dircctorv", will be back at this stand u'ith more reunion aftermath in the fall. In bis behalf we would like to titaiik the following mem­bers of the 25th reunion committee for their efforts toward the most lavish Silver jVnniversarj" ever witnessed on the campus: mille mercis to CHET CHANDLER. PAUL FERGUS, KARL FULNECKY, BOB HALEY, FAL HARRIS, TOM HICKEY (JR.), JOHN JORDAN, NATE LER­AL\N, BERT LISS, FRANK MAXWELL, DR. BILL McCRALEY, BILL RYAN, KURT SIMON, ED S.MITH and, of course, DAN YOUNGER.\L\N. 
Good luck to the new oflicers: DAN YOUNGER­

MAN, president; vice-presidents PHILIP J. 
HEINLE (East), DR. VITTORIO G. ARa\DI 
(West), B. THOMAS OWEN (South), and WAL­

TER J. 0*BRIEN (Midwest); E. J. SMITH, 
treasurer; and, continuing as the indispensable 
dironicler, the Hon. FR.-\NKLYN C. HOCH­
REITER. 
KARL FULNECKY, one of the workhorses 

named above, has formed a new firm, Dwycr 
equipment, as a South Bend sales and scnice 
outlet for several national manufacturers of truck 
and trailer bodies and equipment. Karl has been 
in sales with Edwards Iron works for the last 16 
years. 
Beside his work as cliairman of the Republican 

Congressional Campaign Committee, "spotlighted'* 
in this issue, Rep. BILL MILLER (R-N.Y.) has 
been doing a lot of speechifying. He was kc>'­
notc speaker at the Indiana and other Republican 
Conventions, and he delivered the congressional 
battle cr\* on coast-to-coast television at the Re­
publican National Convention in Chicago. 
KcufTcl & Esser Co. has announced the appoint­

ment of JOHN SHODRON as Midwest regional 
manager, headquartering in Chicago and responsi­
ble for a I6-statc area. Formerly a district sales 
manager for Socony Mobil, John remains in his 
Chicago residence with the Mrs. and four young 
Shodrons. 
The next-to-best excuse for missing the 25th 

was that of University of Connecticut Professor 
J. BENJAMIN BEYRER, summering in Australia with his wife and two cliildrcn as a x'isiting pro­fessor at the University of Melbourne's Scliool of Social Work. Filling out his sabbatical by studying Australia's Sickness Benefit and Family Allowance programs (which should be of interest to many N.D. parents), he'll return this fall. 
The saddest reason for absence in June was, of course, that of /\1I-Amcrican JACK ROBIN­SON, who had to undergo amputation for an embolism in his legs. We know that all Jack's class­mates will 1%-ant to include his intention in their prayers. 
193 4 Robert F. Enin 
• '^* ' 1329 Kensington Rd. Grosse Pointe Park, Midi. 
We have been thinking about writhig a special Class newsletter to more quickly give you the pla\-back from our sur\c\-, but until JIM SHERRY and I can get together to discuss the 25th re­union plans, we will depend on tliis column to give you more news items from last year's ques­tionnaire. 
BOB McDONOUGH apparently played an im­portant role in Candidate Kcnned>''s West \^r­ginia campaign. Time magazine in its Marcli 28tli issue pictured Bob with Kennedy at a political rally. I wonder if our Class will be represented in Kennedy's cabinet jf he is elected. BILL GOTTSACKER of Shdmygan, ^^1scOIuin dropped us a letter as foUoM's: "Here it is zero outside and I am sitting before a fireplace going through papers I had set aside to do on just this t>pe 
HON. ^\^LLIAM E. MILLER, '35 For Campaign Chief, a 5-Term Fighter 

Congressman William Miller has been elected chairman of the National Repub­lican Congressional Committee in Washing­ton. In this position, the New York Repub­lican will direct the Committee's drive to return control of the U. S. House of Rep­resentatives to the GOP. He must succeed in electing 65 new Republicans to gain control. 
A long-time supporter of Vice President 

Nixon, Representative Miller, who is pres­
ently scr\-ing his fifth term in the House of 
Representatives, was elected unanimously to 
the chairmanship of the powerful GOP 
Congressional Committee. 
Bill topped an A.B. degree from Notre 

Dame with an LL.B. from Albany Law 
School of Union University and was ad­
mitted to the New York Bar in 1938. 
While engaging in pri\'ate law practice in 
his native Lockport, New York, Bill was 
appointed U. S. Commissioner for the West-
cm District of New York, where he scr\*ed 
until inducted into the Army in 1942. After 
service with the 76th Infantr>* and the 
Military* Intelligence Branch, he was com­
missioned a First Lieutenant in the Judge 
Advocate Branch of the Army and was 
selected as one of the assistant prosecutors 
for the Nazi war criminals trial at Nurem­
berg, Germany. 
After the war, Bill resumed his pri\^te law practice. Appointed District Attorney of Niagara County in 1948 by Governor Thomas E. Dewey of New York, and con­firmed in a subsequent election, he was elected to Congress November 7, 1950, and re-elected in four succeeding elections. He is a member of the House Judiciary and Un-American Activities Committees. 
The 46-year-old Republican Congres­sional leader is married to the former Steph­anie Wagner of Lockport and makes his home in Olcott, New York, when not in Washington on Congressional business. He has three children, Elizabeth Ann, Mar>' Karen, and William E., Jr. 
of afternoon. (Nicest way to explain procrasti-*" nation.) An>-%\ay, JIM SHERRY's letter of De­cember Ist gave rae a Httic extra 'come on boy* to get this letter off. Yes, because I have so often looked at that '36 column and thought, *The only class that they overlooked teacliing hou* to write.' So I'll start and ma>'be someone else will too! Well, I am still in the Insurance Business after the admonition of the late DEAN McGVRTHY, 'Gottsacker, you'll never make an insurance man.' However, there are times when I think he was absolutely right. It has been gooc]^ to me so I have no complaints really! I have* four cliildrcn that can make more noise than one-half of Notre Dame's rooting section. Tliey arc divided — two for Notre Dame and two for St. Mar\''s, if they don't raise the scholastic re­quirements. Can't understand why with each con­ference with the nuns I get, *Your cliildren don't apply themselves.' It isn't heredity, is it? Haven't been to a Notre Dame football game for so long, almost forgot what the old campus looks like. Anj-way, being in that group that pushed Terry out of his Job, ril not speak too loudly of not having seen a game." ^ 
ANDY HUFNAGEL is a field representative for the Social Security Administration in New York. He tells us that his job involves writing for newspapers and magazines, radio broadcast­ing, and other public relations and public in­formation actinlies. He has been married for eighteen years and lias a 13-ycar-old son and four foster children, having adopted an entire family. This must be some kind of a record for genuine charity among our alumui. SHELBY ROMERE is with the Sun Ripe Line Company in Beaumont, Texas, and is responsible for super­vising field personnel in the proper procedure for purchasing and transporting crude oils. Shelby liasA three sons and a daughter. TOM ADAMSO?^^ of Evanson, Illinois, is sales promotion manager for the Bowman Dair>* Company in Chicago. He has four children and volunteers to work on prc-reunion publicity in his area. That's the spirit, Tom! I am sure we will need all the help we can get to make our 25th reunion a success. Your suggestion that classmates provide informa­tion about other members in their area is an ex­cellent one and since you brought up their names, why not give us a stor>' on AL ROHOL and JOHN DE MOTS? 
QcVRL ADLER is plant manager of the Vana­dian Corporation of America's Fcrro-Alloy Plan ^ in New Haven, West XHrginia. Carl's older sonW' Carl Jr., is a physics major at Notre Dame. DICK B.AKER is president and treasurer of the W. A. Green Company Department Store in Dallas, Texas. Dick has two bo\-s and two girls and, like prac­tically cxcryone else who replied to our sun'e>*, expects to attend the 25tli reunion. JACK BAR­BER is the regional controller for the Postal Scr\'icc in Cincinnati, Ohio. He has two sons and two daughters and writes in part as follows: ".. . I do not recall writing a single letter to the class sccretar>* since graduation. It is swell to hear from you in conjunction witli this questionnaire. I have been in Cincinnati fo ^ five years now. ^^y business takes me fairly oflci"' to the large cities in Ohio. I visited BILL D.ARCY in Toledo and met BILL McFARL.\ND in Akron. He was just made acting postmaster of Canal Fulton, Ohio, but I do not believe the appoint­ment has been confirmed yet." 
JIM DUTTON is a la«->er in Norwich, Con­necticut, and his practice emphasizes federal taxa­tion. He has also been judge of the City Court since 1955. Jim lias two sons and expects to play golf during most of our reunion week end. Col. JOHN BRITTON is deputy commander of a wing of HAl bombers at the Lockboume Air^ Force Base in Ohio. He still flies, but most oW his duties are administrative. During our 20tb ~ reunion Jack was stationed at Thule, Greenland, and so he adds a little note to our President Sherr>' as follows: ''Congratulations, Jim, on your election to the presidency of the Class. Would like to hear from you. Tried to look you up when I was in Michigan a year ago but had no suc­cess. I will probably remain here in Ohio for another year as I have only that amount of time remaining before I am eligible for retirement." 
HAMILTON a\LVERT is supcrxisor of Na-^ tional account sales for the Kawneer Company -* in Nilcs, Michigan. He has two daughters and a son. He thinks the survey questionnaire may help if it is repeated from time to time. FRED CARIDEO is regional director of planning and zoning for the General Outdoor Advertising Com­pany in Wiite Plains, Ne\v York. Fred suggests that a class member be appointed in cliargc of each state or region to accumulate and stimulate^ 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
^nor c class news items. LOUIS CRYSTAL is supervisor of non-metallic materials for the Cater­pillar Tractor Company in Peona, Illinois. Louis has one son. He signifies that he will spend a lot of his reunion time playing golf. 
RAY DEELY is Assistant Chief of the Finance Division for the World Bank in Washington, D.C. Ray has four sons and recommends, as a reunion activity, rifle shooting from a prone position. Ray suggested that a form could be made up and distributed to all members of our class so that 
/.Athey could fire news items into the secretary 
^witli the least amount of exertion. I think this is a very good idea, but lest we should get ^'swamp­cd*' by such a system, I would prefer to leave this to the new secretary who will take over in June of 1961. 
DR. ED DON'OGHUE is a consultant in in­ternal medicine at the Mayo Clinic at Rochester, Minnesota. He docs not expect to be able to make it to our reunion, but I hope that he w-ill change his mind about that. Ed has five cliildrcn, including twin bo>-s. PAUL DOYLE is district sales manager for the Union Carbide Chemicals 
j^Company in Houston, Texas. Paul has three sons 
"an d two daughters and, as many of you may know, has been extremely active in the alumni work in the Houston area. In fact, he was recently given the Mon-of-the-Year A%vard. Obviously Paul is still in excellent physical condition because he predicts that he will both swim and play golf at the 2ath reunion. 
DON ELSER is alliletic director and head foot­ball coach at the Horace Mann High Scliool in Gar>', Indiana. Again, as most of our classmates are aware, Don has become a very successful and widely known football and basketball official. He worked the Rose Bowl game last year, the Chica­
^g o Tribune All-Star game and the Pan-American 
vBaskctball games. Don suggests wc send out sclf­addressed cards so that our busy classmates can jot down nows items for mailing to the secretary-. 
BILL GILSTON is sales representative for the Ed. Thompson Company in Eastern New York state. Tliis company publishes law books. Bill is married to the former Elaine Bouton, a sister of BUD BOUTON, and they have two sons and a daughter. He is in favor of anything of a scd­cntarj' nature at our reunion. (It was interest­ing to me in reading these replies to our sur­vey that our class as a whole is in favor of al­most anything at the reunion so long as they can 
^d o it setting down.) I might recommend high Vritamin intake, but I hesitate to mention my favorite manufacturer. 
HERM GREEN is president of the People's Bank in Xe\v Castle, Pennsylvania. He describes his job as just plain hard work. Knowing Hcmi as we do, I suspect that some place along the line he is hav­ing some fun out of it. He sends regards to our President Shcrrv and mentions the term '*Aulo Thief." 
Father EDMOND HxVMMER is assistant pastor of St. Tliomas Aquinas Church in Ne^^• York. He passes along the news that BILL FIEWEGER is now plant manager for the Kimberly-Clark Com­
•a-pany in New Milford, Conn., and they renewed 
Wacquaintances during winter v-acation last year in Nassau. Father Edmond continues to be the scholar that we knew in School and was granted a Master's degree from Fordham University last 
. June. DR. LEO HOFSCHNEIDER is a ph>-sician and surgeon in Rochester, New York, as well as co-owner with TOM MAEGHER of the Cancsus Drive-In Tlicatcr. Leo has three children in high school and a married adopted daughter. Leo lost a son last year from a brain- tumor. Our class sends its belated condolences. ^ I am afraid this is about all the space our Wfditor will let me use, but we will try to get out a newsletter this summer and arrange for a special mailing outside of the ALUMNUS. 
I hope you all have pleasant vacation periods. Be sure to set aside some time next year for our 25th reunion. 
From the fVIumnl Oflice: Tlie Class' most recent national president of the Alumni Assn., F. L. {.MIKE) LAYDEN, has ,_,^^becn promoted from district manager to division ^manager of Indiana Bell Telephone. Congratula­tions to Mike and Marx* Ellen and the three little Laydens, Peter, Sarah and Susan. Co-chairman of the Red Feather campaign in Flint, Mich., this fall will be HAROLD R. STINE, manager of Flint's duPont plant since 1957 and officer of the N.D. Club. DICK SNOOKS, outgoing president of Kansas City-St. Joseph Diocesan Council of Catholic Men, 
has turned over the presidency to ED REARDON, '37. 
Heaven gained a new small saint and Notre Dame men a ne\v intercessor on May 25, when 3J4-ycar-old Martin McCarthy, son of Mr. 5: Mrs. CORNELIUS A. McCARTHY, was fatally injured by a car in front of his home, 736 Tyler Street, Gary, Ind. He Is survived by a brother Patrick; three sisters, Cornelia, Mary and Mar­garet; and his parents, to whom goes our deepest sympathy. 
1 92 7 Joseph p. Quinn 
•''^' P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc Andovcr, N. J. 
REUNION REGISTRANT GIR.\RD BESx\NCENEY. 

The numbers are few in returns, but the answers arc encouraging. 
From the desk of the vice president of Texas Bank & Trust Co., Dallas, Texas, one WIL KIRK comes about the tops in letters to your Secretary in the few short years he has had the job. Our area vice president has covered his area from the Rocky Mountains to the East in his own fine manner. Red Skelton is a favorite, but I believe Wil can top him in htmior. Of course those of you who made the 20th reunion know who put the show on the road during the '^meeting*' at the Rockne Afemorial. From Chicago, Wil reports that the hangout appears to be the Chicago Athletic 
RICH/\RD S. SMITH, '37 On the Border, Bouquets for a Buyer 

Richard Smith is the second member to be named "Man of the Year" by the Notre Dame Club of El Paso, Texas, in its 10­year history. A charter member and found­ing officer of the El Paso club, Dick has been its president and has scr\'ed for many years as area chairman of the N. D. Foun­dation. 
Dick is purchasing agent for the Phelps-Dodge Refining Company. A past national director of the Purchasing Agents Associa­tion, he is chairman of the 1960 District Meeting to be held in El Paso this fall. He organized and has ser\*ed as president of the El Paso Purchasing Agents Association. He is a member of the El Paso Chamber of Commerce. 
A native of El Paso, Texas, Dick is mar­ried to the former Ida Glasicr and is the father of four children. Rose Marie, Lionel, Richard, Jr. and Joanne. 
Club, HARRY BALDWIN being the head man at the round table with all the other legal bei^les in tow. The chinks are on Harry but the fees are high, according to ^Vil. Your Secy, has been trying to hear from Harry for a long time but with no success (par for the course on a lot of you fellows). Pole vaulter DAN GIBBS also fre­quents the place along with BILL STEINKEMPER, who Wil reports is in tip top shape; he could scrimmage all day and not be winded, but settles for chasing the little white ball on the golf course. From %lilv\'aukce, VTil reports that BOB GROGAN is vice pres. of the Clark OU and Refining Co. and just happens to have a few extra credit cards for the lads traveling in that zone. To New York, Wil reports on another lost member, JOHN MARBACH, Harvard lawyer, who is a marvelous host, has plenty to serve, and whose vrife Peggy is a grand hostess. Most of VfiVs report covers the cocktail hours at these stops. Traveling from Cleveland to Chicago, AVil rode with Bengal Bouter HARRY MARR, perennial favorite of the fight fans, who stays in top condition with his 100 push-ups each AM and his road work. Harry has a son at N.D. and re­ports on BOB WILKE, now living in Conn. after living for a time in Allentown, Pcnna. Bob is one of the Met Area golf champs, always listed at scratch on I handicap. The class all knows that PINKY CARROLL is now a native of Manhattan, Kansas, running this large new hos­pital, and holds auctions on Shetland Ponies, which Wil has never vfon. The two rancheros out there are CARROLL and SCHWARTZ. To Denver, ^Vil reports on JOHN McCARTY, his old roomie, who has completely air-conditioned the Rocky ^It. area and challenges BOB \VILKE to a golf match at the 23th reum'on. To match PARKER SULLI­VAN on the east coast in the telephone business, wc have MARK KERIN with the Rocky Mountain Telephone Co., also supporting a boy at NJ). 
To wind up on WIL KIRK, his oldest boy Is a soph, on the N.D. track team, vnth two others in high school. On the feminine side he Is support­ing the local Ursuline Academy with two daugh­ters In attendance. Many thanks, "Wil, for your letter on all the fellows you have come across In vour tours of the U.S. 
ED HOYT, of U.S. Rubber, with City College of New York as an Instructor, is now a member of the Board of Education of East Paterson, N.J., which latter position £d settled for not knov%ing what he Avas getting in for. Many of you, as your 5ec>'. also, have served on these boards and could have warned Ed of the time-consuming duties he has lined up for him. Ed had lunch with ARCH GOTT, who is no\v sales manager for the Elgin Company, sells equipment to large municipalities, having been with Harvester for years. TO.M HUGHES Is now a neighbor of Ed's being in the-Paterson ofHcc of Continental Can after hopping across the river to N.Y. for years. VTith all his activities Ed Is an excellent corrcsponden t! 
JACK GILLESPIE, chalrborne after many years of travel with Mobil Oil, Is now in charge of press relations out of their N.Y. OfHce at 130 East 42nd Street. Instead of coming back to Jer­sey, Jack settled in Conn. Reports he had lunch with cx-roomic FRANK LESSELYONG, sales manager, for Tonka Toys (All you fathers know this firm). Frank may also tic up with WILKE and McCARTY in the golf match. BILL FALLON, the New York Club*s Man of '37, writes of being with Fr. NED JOYCE at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner In New York. He met TOM HUGHES at the N.Y. affair for a new dormitory at Slonehill College, which will be named for Cardinal O'Hara. The N.Y. Club hopes to donate the chapel. Bill has a godson graduating In June and heading for N.D. Claims he Is a good prospect for football too. These bachelors have to brag about something. BilPs club Is also giving a touchdown Club dinner for Kuharich In N.Y. 
We can finally report on LxVRRY DANBOM and DON ILVNNING. I met a retired F.BJ. man here at a Rotary Club dinner, and he ended up talking about Washington, D.C, where he reports these two lads really exist, get along very well with people, are happily married and have fine families. Also, they are available if anyone throws a party. Now, we plan to have a 25th Reunion in 1962 and wc arc coimting on all these stay-aways to be present. Let your Secretary know of the stmimer activities, as the next deadline Is here. 
From the Alumni Office: Baltimore's HAL WILLIAMS, *38, reminds us that DR. ^VILUAM B. PRENDERGAST o£ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 61 
Annapolis, a former professor of political science at the Xaval Academy, has been named director of researclt for the Republican National Com­mittee. An independent-minded local Republican leader. Bill Prendergast has been his party'i candidate for congress and the Mar>-land Senate. As national research chief his job will be "to provide ammunition for those on the firing lines. With Rep. BILL MILLER, '35, as congressional chairman, it looks like an N.D. team rather than a G.O.P. one. 
EDWARD J. REARDON, a Kansas City in­surance executive, has been elected president of tlie Diocesan Council of Catholic Men. Long active In the lay apostolatc, Ed was formerly vice-president of the diocesan group. 
JOHN MICHAEL POWERS III of Baytown. Tex., and Humble Oil rcscarcJi & development, has another patent, this time in England, on a benzene recovery- process. He spoke in April at a seminar on the uses of rcseardi, sponsored by the American Management Assn. in San Francisco. 
1 93 S Bumic Bauer I 7^ 0 J J3g Western Avenue South Bend 25, Ind. 
Two sad notes: JERRY J. CLIFFORD died in Houston. Texas, in February* leaving four children orphans. His wife died in the summer of 1958. Tills is all the information I can get so far from the executor of Jerry's estate. 
ED BRENXAN of Paw Paw, Micliigan, the old football fullback who left the sport with a busied leg in liis Sophomore year, slopped to take mc out to lunch and told me the sad news that his wife. Peg. had died on Good Friday, leaving liim with two cliildrcn, a son, twelve, and a daughter, seven. 

Please remember JERRY CLIFFORD and his wife and ED BRENNAN*S wife in your prayers. . HUB KIRCHMAN sends a good word to all who arc planning a \'acation out West. Hub sold out his business in Bay City, Michigan to his cousin FRANK KIRCH.MAN last summer and moved his wife, G cliildrcn, dog and parakeet to 47IG4^ Rd. 128, Orange Cove, California, which is about 30 miles from Fresno. Hub has a 40­acrc orange grove complcle with grapevines. He says tliat tliey are just far enough from the National Parks (Yosemitc, Sequoia and Kings Canyon), about 20 miles, to swelter most of the year. But don't let that scare you all from stopping in, 
. ANliile still back in Michigan, Hub said .he took in all the . Notre Dame-Michigan State 
•games, where he ran into JOHN KANE, PAT a\REY, ".MOOSE" WILLIAMS, BOB DEREN­COWSKI and BOB WEBSTER. Moose promised Hub, the franchise for the whole Slate of Cali­fornia for his "Creamettes" if Hub can't grow oranges. 
Huh said he also saw JOE TIMMERMAN and ED UNLACKE of HicksvilJe, N«v York, before leanng the East, Tlie onlv classmate he has seen in California is FRANK "MONK" MEYER in Los Angeles. He has been tr\*ing to see BUNNY McCORMICK and may be missing him because 
•Bunny has just moved to a new home in LiVcr­morc, 185G 6th Street — try that address, Hub! 
From the other side of the counir/: on Nax'al War College, Newport, Rhode Island, stationer^", I find a communique, though only in single copy, from Commander JOHN P. FOX. John is still a bacliclor, but admits he was shaken in this resolute position after hearing that JOHN HARDART was recently married. 
John lias been shipped around interesting places since he decided to make a career of the Na\y. For tlirce years after the war he was in Spain as na\*al attaclie. From there he went to tlie Nax-al ,\ir Test Center, Patuxent River, Mar>-­land, where he got acquainted with the jets. Later taking command of a jet fighter squadron in the Pacific, John got acquainted with the Far East. In 1937, John was sent to the Xa\-al ^Var College at Xcuport, where he is now on the staff. He is gixing a special course to naval officers from 29 countries friendly to the United States and soon he will be assigned to the air­craft carrier, **Bon Homme Ricliard.*' in the 
•West Pacific as executive officer. Before leaving for the East he expects to sec ED WRAPP at Harvard. (Hope John stops in to sec us in South Bend on his %\'ay West.) 
JOHN COTTINGHAM of 1509 Union Central Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio has an tnquir>' about his old roommate, LOUIS DUNN, wliom John 
'62 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September . 1960 
FRANCIS H. MAY, '38 After Heading J-M Glass, a Alan of Fiber 
Francis H. May, Jr., formerly vice presi­dent of Johns-Manville Fiber Glass Inc., with full administrative responsibility for the company's operation, was appointed as­sistant vice president for finance of Johns-Manville corporation on June 29. He will move from Toledo to the parent firm's New York City headquarters. 
Frank augmented his A.B. degree at Notre Dame with a master's in business administration from the Har\'ard Graduate School of Business in 1940. He began his career •with Owens-Illinois that year as manager of their War Contracts Division. During World War II he sen'ed in Army Infantr>* in the Asiatic-Pacific Theater as a platoon commander in the Philippines cam­paign. Among combat decorations, he holds the Bronze Star and tlie Purple Heart with Oak Leaf Cluster. Upon separation from the Army in 1946 after t%vo years of active duty, he joined Glass Fibers, Inc., of To­ledo as vice president and secretary and two years later assumed the additional re­sponsibilit>' of treasurer. 
In late 1954, when Glass Fibers Inc., merged with L.O.F. Glass Fibers Company, Frank became \'icc president, secretary and treasurer of the latter firm. When it was acquired by Johns-Manxnlle Fiber Glass Inc.. late in 1958, he was elected vice president and general manager and a di­rector of that J-M subsidiary'. 
Frank has been a member of the Toledo Notre Dame Club and sen-ed as Toledo Chairman of tlie Notre Dame Foundation. He is also a trustee of the Toledo Countr>* Club. 
Indicative of his interest in community activities, he is a director of Junior Achieve­ment Inc. of Northwestern Ohio and of the Toledo Chapter, American Cancer Society. 
In 1940, Frank married June Brcen whom he had escorted to many a prom during his Notre Dame days. They have three children — Francis Hart III, John Jo­seph and Marcia Ann. 
Iiasu't seen since graduation. Lou's wife, says^ John, u-as afflicted witli polio some years ago. John entered the insurance business right after graduation and except for the war, which in­cluded two years in Europe as guest of Uncle Sam, has been insurancing ever since when he is not engaged in local Alumni or Foundation acti\itics. John is Foundation chairman in Cin­cinnati. John says his family consists of his ^vife, son and daughter and a mean Chesapeake re­triever, who took a nip out of his secrctar>* when she visited his home Sunday. (Editors notc:^ You can't scare me John, I'll come out any-" way if I ever get to Cincinnati.) Some years ago John and his wife visited several da\-s uith BILL "PEEPERS" DORSEY in New York, who had to leave us in his Sophomore year when his father died. They also attended the wedding of HENRY "HANK" THIES in LouisWlIc three years ago — a day of champagne and 99" temperature. "I see a great deal of JACK BOND wliosc brother Tom has been in California since graduation. Jack and liis brother Nat, '37, have a very successful contracting business in Cincinnati." 
CHARLIE DUKE, for many years South Bend's^ 

airport Manager, but for the last three yearsW 
director of a\iation in ^loinsant International 
.Airport in Nc(V Orleans, iias almost come home 
by accepting a job as resident airport consul­
tant at O'Hare Field, Chicago. 
The airlines will get onlv necessary business 

from JI.M BE.\UD\V.-\Y and the "old Swede" 
since we experienced a near disastrous plunge when 
caught in a down-draft over northern Florida on 
St. Patricks day, on a Chamber of Commerce 
chartered plane that had taken us to Cape Ca­
naveral and ^liami. Jim, who owns a group of 
liardwarc stores in South Bend and is president 
of Edwards Iron Works, is aUo president of the 
local Chamber of Commerce this year. ^. 
Though it is still three years away, I like 

the forward planning of JIM DRISI^VNE wlio 
has already sent in his reservation for our 25lh 
reunion. Jim is a lawyer in Albany where he 
attended law scliool. Jim was in the army dur­
ing the war and came out a major. He married 
Marjory Paul of Miami in 1951. They have one 
daughter, Dion. Besides CHUCK SWEENEY on 
his pro football officiating trips, tfie only class­
mate he saw in recent years was JAY DUTMER 
of Grand Rapids, who stopped wlien going through 
Albany last year, 
CHARLIE a\LL.\HAN reports seeing NICK_ 

L.AMBERTO at the Drake relays and BUB| ^ 
CROWLEY in Lexington at the basketball game ~ 
— Bub was very sick tAvo or three months last winter but is okay now. He saw STEVE DIE­TRICH, who sells for Cue magazine in Detroit, GEORGE SMITH of Indianapolis, HARRY WIL­SON of Cleveland and TOM JORD.VN who made most of the Xotrc Dame basketball games to sec how his brother John was coaching. Callalian received a letter from Rome from JACK JVNTOX along with a picture of Jack and Pope John XXIII. 
Besides JOE KUHARICH and JOHN MURPHY, 

other '38ers at the Old Timers game were CHUCK 
SWEENEY, CHUCK BOROWSKI, DON FISHER ^ 
BILL GIBBONS, JIM LrVHEY, DON HICKEY* 
and Major D^VX MOXAHAX of Fort Benjamin 
Harrison, Indianapolis. 
ED CRONIN, as president of the "Kennedy 

for President" committee, \%'as elsewhere cam­
paigning in his best West \^rgiman manner. 
.Another generation is appearing at Notre Dame 

— TOM WUKOVITS, with Firestone in Detroit, is sending Tom, Jr., to Notre Dame next fall as a fresliman. TO.M KAVAXAUGH's son, Hayes, will be a junior at Xotrc Dame next fall. TOAI RIXI of Cleveland came to see his nephew, Tom Rini, play [ootball last fall. Young Tom H-as :^ rcscr\"c halfback. W 
Two other classmates who are prominent at Xotrc Dame: Father CHESTER SOLETA, C.S.C. is Wcc-p resident in cliargc of academic affairs and gave the local Notre Dame Night talk at the Morris Inn. Father A(LFRED) LEONARD COLLINS, C.S.C., because he was a graduate of '38 no doubt, is now prefect of discipline — dean of students that is. 
Good neu-s! "MOOSE" KRAUSE told me he saw a\RLTON MACDOUGALD on a trip to Proridence, Rhode Island recently. Carlton is stil^ confined to a wheelctiair following the bad auto-" mobile accident he had five years ago in Vir­ginia, but clieerful. He now conducts his own business, (a beverage store of the t>'pc that would do a land-ofHcc business at reunion time). Many contributors to the fund raised for Carlton after his accident have asked hou- he has been 
.doing, and we are glad to give you this recent 
first-hand report. Stop in for a refreshing visit with Carlton when you arc in Providence. 
On the move: LARRY KERWIN, across the toad to 19431 Lomond Blvd. Shaker Hgts. 22, O.; MAURICE J. KENNEDY, around the corner to 333 S. Fairmont, Lodi, Cal.; AR,\M P. JARRETT, down the road to 121 Woodland Road, Woon­sockct, R. L; DICK &\RRIGAN, Evanston, 111., to 4866 N. Xlilwaulicc, Chicago 30, 111.; JOSEPH 

E. COLE, across town to 323 Poyntz, Manhattan, Kans.; PAUL V.\N WAGNER, from Bartlctt, Am. , to 'II W. Washington St., Chicago; SAM ^BORZILLERI, from Rochester, S.Y., to 1025 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington 6, D.C.; EUGENE C. SUTHERL.\ND, from Columbia, Miss, to 424 W. St. Joseph, Lafavette, La.; VICTOR G. REILING, out awaj-s to 269 W. Stroop Rd., Dayton 29, O.; GEORGE ELMORE, changed precincts to 1357 Greenwood, Wilmctte, 111.; ALFRED T. HOR.\L\N, ditto to 812 Black Oak Ridge Road, Wa>-nc, N.J.; JOHN C. SCHWARTZEL, stayed in same town but changed address to I7I5 Crestview Dr. New Albany, Ind.; THO.MiVS P. HEi\LY did the same to 4113 
c 4 Woodbine St., Cheiy Chase 13, Md.; THOMAS 
F. MULLEN, Jr., traded real estate in Miami for 2821 N.E. 32nd St., Pompano Beacli, Fla.; \MLLI.\M J. MULHALL switclied from Water-ville, N.Y., to 697 .Vmctt Blvd., Rodiester, N.Y. From the Alumni Office: 
Two '38crs were neglected by Secretary Bauer who have a certain prominence on campus. In June REV. FERDINAND L. BRO\\"N, C.S.C., was named Notre Dame's religious superior. Tech­nically at least, this makes him boss over one REV. THEODORE MARTIN HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of tlie University. Father Ted, incidentally, was profiled by the New York Times 

, ^ recently as an "academic linebacker** who had 
" *'clianged the Notre Dame skyline. The news­paper devoted most of a page to his views on education and civil rights. The aforementioned JOE KUHARICH was also profiled in the Times by Arthur Daley as a man whose dreams had come true. 
Professor FR.\NK ITZIN of the State University of Iowa has a Fulbright grant to lecture and set up a field program in social work at the University College of South Wales at CardilT, England. Frank will leave in September with Mrs. Itzcn and tlieir three children, Jean, Charles and Cathrinc. 

» Alumni director BILL MAHONEY, Senator Jack " Kenned>-'s manager in Arizona, has been in the clouds since the Democratic Convention. 
1939 J"^^ ^- Motschall Singcr-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chitago Detroit 4, Michigan 
From the Alumni Office: 
Mrs. Vera Kelley, mother of the late PAUL KELLEY, still remembers the University gen­erously from Xfontrose. Calif., ten years after 

^PauP s death. His brother's son. Bob, Jr., has completed his sophomore vear. 
Thanks to classmate JOHN P. SULLIV,\N, an attorney in St. Louis, we have the news that JA.MES C. W.ALSH has been named a director, vice-president and treasurer of the May De­partment Store Company, one of the largest re­tailers in the world. Jim has been secretary and assistant treasurer since a 1959 merger with the Heclit Co. of Baltimore and Washington, of which he was also vice-president, treasurer and director of corporate development, previously work­ing for Marshall Field, Chicago. We'll try to 

, ^ have more on this in the future. # LOUIS J. DEMER received a Ph.D. in June from the University of Minnesota. 
1940 J^un^ (>• Brown ' '^*' 144 East 44th St. New York, N.Y. 
REUNIO.V REGISTR,\NTS STANLEY C. ADA.MONIS, HENRY AR-MITAGE, EDMUND BADDOUR, DOUGL,\S A. B,\NGERT, 

» GEORGE W. BECKER, ANTHON*Y M. BER­
• NARD , THOMAS J. BREN-NAN, J.VMES G. BROWN, DICK BURKE, ROBERT BURKE, mLLIA.\f G. BURXS, CHARLES BUTLER, AL­FRED C,\LL,\N, ^MLLIAM CVNNON, PHILIP CARROLL, ANTHONY L. CELU , WILLIAM COLEMAN, ROBERT CONNELLY, HUGH CRANE, JOSEPH P. CUMMINGS, JOHN L. CURRAX, JA.MES C. DANER, JOSEPH Dc­
_. FRANCO, JAMES DELAH,\NTY, WILLIAM R. 
DILLON, JESSE DOLL, JAMES DONOGHUE, GERALD DONOV,\N, HENRY DOWT), REX 
H. ELLIS, HENRY K. ENGEL, ^flLLIA-M FAY, THOXLVS FLAD, WALTER L. FLE.MING, DR. JOHN FLYNN, THOM.AS FORD, DAVID J. FOX, ROBERT FROST, JOHN GAVAN, DON­ALD R. GILLILAND, ROBERT GRISANTI, THOMAS IUCKETT, REV. PAUL W. HACK­M<\N, D,\NIEL E. HANN,\N, EDWARD J. IL\RT, PAUL F. HELLMUTH, JOHN P. HENE­BRY, CURTIS HESTER, DONALD HOSINSKI, EDWARD HUFF, NORVALL HUNTILVUSEN, DANIEL J. HUSHEK, JOHN J. HUSSEY, ED­WARD A. HUSTON, DAVID HYDE, JOHN JULIAN, WILBUR K,\MM, JOHN C KELLE­HER, EDWARD KELLY, JA.MES P. KELLY, JOHN F. KELLY, THO.\L\S J. KELLY, CH.ARLES .M. KELSEY, THADDEUS S. KMIE­CIK, JOHN A. KOTTE, ROBERT LAMBERT, HUGH Li\UGHNA, JOSEPH L^VVERY, THOMAS LE,\HY, J. CLIFFORD LETCHER, JOHN LINNEHAN, THOMAS LISTO.N, RICHARD L^-NC, THO.MAS .McCARTHY, JOHN .McIN-TYRE, JOSEPH McKEON, CHARLES MAGNER, JOHN J. MARTIN, EDWARD E. .MATTHEWS, LOUIS .MECONI, GEORGE MEEKER, JOHN 
J. MLYNSKY, .MIZE -MORRIS, FR,\NK J. .MURPHY, ROBERT J. NOL<VN, ARTHUR OBERHOFER, JOHN O'BRIEN, WILLUM H. O'BRIEN, JERO.ME J. O'DOWD, HUGH O'DONNELL, KEVIN 0'GOR.\LVN, WLLL-UI O'lL^RE, DR. COLMAN J. O'NEILL, CIL\RLES 
J. OSHINSKI, CHARLES PATERNO, JOHN A. PINDAR, GEORGE PRESTO.V, PETER J. RE­PETTI, JAMES J. ROGERS, ROBERT ROTH­ACKER, VINCENT J. RYAN, GER.\LD S,\E­GERT, A. BENJAMIN SAELI, JOSEPH J. S^UTTA, LEO A. S,\NTINI, ARTHUR SAYW, ROBERT F. SAYIA, GER,\LD A. SEXTON, JOSEPH W. SKELLY, JOSEPH SMALLEY, DON­ALD SMITH, JOSEPH E. SOTAK, DAVID W. SPR,\FKE, RICHARD STEFFANIAK, CHESTER 
N. SULLIViXN, D,\NIEL SULLIVzVN, JAMES SULLIV,VN, WALTER SWEITZER, WILLIAM J. SYRING, BERNARD TEr\H, WILLIAM TUCK­ER, WA'i'NE WAHL, CHARLES WEILBACHER, WALTON WTJEBBOLD, LOUIS ZONTINI. From the Alumni Office: 
JIM BROWN will probably have much to say about a sparkling 20th Reunion, and particularly the work of local committeemen DICK BURKE, JJ.U DEHftXNTi', etc, in the naxt issue. Meanwhile, a few notes on other men of '40. 
Mention has been made of the tribute of the Xfontana Lt-gblaturc and of Governor Aronson to Dean ROBERT E. SULLIV^VN of the Montana State Univ-crsity School of Law. Afore about Missoula's Bob Sulli\-an on the law page in this issue. 
JAMES H. HEINTZELM,\N U now prindpal of Harrison School in South Bend. He's been at Harrison since retiuming from U'. W, II in 1945 and got his M.A. at N.D. in '51. 
WILLIAM L. JOYCE of Tempe, Ariz., has been promoted to assistant vice-president of the First National Bank of Arizona. Bill has been a business de\'elopment representative for the bank and is past president of the local chapter of the American Institute of Banking. He's a past president of the Phoenix N.D. Club 
1 041 James F. Spellman " ^ ' 7 East 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y. 
From the Atumn! Office: DON GOTTSCHALK has teamed with two other Milwaukee insurance men to form a new general insurance agency to be known as Gottschalk, Kobcrtson and Ryan. Don says the new com­pany is the first large merger of independent insurance agents in the Milwaukee area in 10 years. The new firm will represent over 21 In­surance companies. Don has been active in in­surance for 21 years and has been head of the Gottschalk Agency. He's a commander in the 
U.S. Na\'al Reser\'e and was president of the Milwaukee i\ssn. of Insurance Agents for three years. He and Mrs. G. have three daughters. 
1942 WiUiam M. Hickcy 
• '^ ^ 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Biinois 
From tlic Alumni OfEce: While waiting for returns from letters he's sent to classmates, BILL HICKEV made a spring trip to Europe, the high point of which was a visit to the Scoglio Di Frtsio, headquarters of the 
X.D. Club of Rome, presided over bv VINCE Mo\LOON*, '34. 
Bill wrote: *'Thc only notice I can think of to put in the 1942 news is the death of DOUGLAS 
F. H;\LEY on January 23." Since then there were the deaths of TOM PROBST and the father of ROBERT A. MATTHEWS. Mr. Matthews, a law>-cr, teacher, orator and prominent Catholic Ia>'maji, had a quarter-page obituary in the Brooklyn Tablet. Please prav for them all. 
ROBERT W. BAUCHMAN, Jr., president of Idaho Falls (Idalio) Electric Inc., was recently voted '*boss of the month" by the Credit Women of Idaho Falls. A former nai*a] oiScery Bob is the father of six. 
1943 JackWggins ' '^'' 5125 Briggs Ave. La Crescenta, Cal. 

Thanks for the fine cooperation in returning the questionnaire forms on our business survey. The following information was extracted from the ques­tionnaire. We plan to cover the results in two 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Most Rev. Coleman F. Carroll, Bishop of Miami, is presented with an oil portrait by John Callan, '21, retiring president, gift of the Lauderdale Club at UJiJD. Night ceremonies climaxing the Florida State Convention. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 63 
purtioiis. M» if you don't see your name this issui-. 
tune in next month. Inddcntally, there was al­
most unanimous approval of the present reunion 
program. 
LEO LIXCK is .self employed as a lawyer in 
Revenna, Mich. BRIAN MCUVUGHLIN, M.D. 
practices opthamology in Milwaukee, AVisc. FA­

THER BOB PELTON, C.S,C., now heads Notre 
Dame's theology department; he doubles as rector 
o[ Fisher Hall. GERRY FEENEY is a partner in 
the South Bend law firm of Feene>- and Stratigos. 
DICK MILLI.\I.-\N is a buyer for the \^cker.s 
Division of Sperry Rand in Detroit; \nckers 

manufactures hydraulic equipment. The manager of 
Miller-Kemper Lumber Co.. Richmond. Ind., is 
OREN STEINS. When LEO R^W.MO.VD isn't 
rooting home the Cubs he works as assistant 
division manager of :\ro Equipment Corp. lubri­
cation equipment specialists. JOHN WALSH, fa­
ther, of seven and v-p in charge of sales, check> 
in at Midland Pipe & Supply Co., Cicero, 111. 
JIM HARRINGTON, M.D. is a practicing sur­
geon in Logansport, Ind. Included among his five 
cliildren arc two sets of twins! i\ssistant Prof. 
BOB C-VRVER announces from John Carroll Uni­
versity. Cleveland, Ohio, that there was a ne^v 
arrival .April 20 at the new Car\'er house. 
ART KARTHEISER is vice president of Regiscopc. Chicago distributors of dual lens cam­eras. President of the Joseph P. Rogers Co.. general insurance. St. Paul, Minn, is BOB ROGERS. DICK KISGE.V writes from Albuquer­que that he is general merchandise manager and vice president of Hubbard's. Inc. and Rankin's department stores in New Mexico and Southern California. JOHN FLYNN, M.D., F.A.C.S., is a Bay Shore. N.Y.. eye surgeon. Down Fowler. Indiana, way JOE a\.MPAGNA owns a lOOO-acre rancli specializing in farming and cattle feeding. A new Indiana resident is JOE JACOB who was transferred by Torrington Mfg. Co. (air Impellers) as plant manager of the Rochester, Ind. plant. BOB BAKER Is president and general manager of llierese. Wise, Baker Caimlng Co., where peas and corn canning season begins about re­union week-end ever^' vear. keeping Bob from attending. JLM BAUMGARTNER, M.D., is a physician and surgeon at General Clinic of W^est Bend, Wise Chief of obstetrics at Santa Rosa Hospital, San .Vntonio, Texas Is DR. JOHN N. WALSH. 
Tlic Coca-Cola king of Marion, Ind. is JATE R/VDEMAKER, vice president and secretar\-. DICK MURR.\Y, M.D., M.Sc (Med.), F.A.C.S., Is a plastic surgeon in Youngstown, Ohio. TOM FARMER is a Consulting Engineer in Dewitt. N.Y., FATHER TO.M FINUCANE, S.J., is an Instructor in accounting at Regis College, Den­ver, Colo. JOHN Y.\\'ORSKY owns the Yavorsky Agencies In San Diego and nearby Chula Vista. Calif. Tlic agencies handle real estate. Invest­ments and insurance. Secretary-Treasurer of An­thony Wayne Corp., operators of parking stations and garages in Fort Wayne, Ind. is ED HOCH. A meeting in the Chicago area before the North­western game lias been suggested for the MSers by JACK MORRISON. You can readi him at the Vlsklng Co. in the Clearing District of Chica­go; Jack b a Baker specialist for the polyethylene film extruders. STEVE ENSNER is secretary-treasurer of Diversified Oil & Mining Corp. JOHN BEHR is band and orchestra instructor at Miner\"a and Pottcrsvillc Central Scliools in War­ren County, New York. BILL TRACY writes that his son is a missile man at Ft. Slocum. N.Y., while his daughter is a high school senior. As Trac>' saJd, time certainly does fly! Bill is a Special Agent for the F.B.I, in New York City. LEO KEATING is a partner in the law finn of Glllmer, Kllnger & Keating of Warren, O. Another F.B.I, man is Class President OLLIE HUNTER, senior resident agent in New Castle. Pa., 'uherc OUie was recently transferred from Eric. Associates Discount Corp. Roclicstcr, N.Y. brancli manager Is PAUL TIERNEY. Hirer, firer. buyer, seller and janitor of the J. L. Durbin & Co., Bowling Green, Ky. is JULIAN DURBIN, general mercliandlscr. He neglected to mention whether or not they give Green Stamps. ED DAVIS is general sales manager for the Chat­tanooga (Tcnn.) Gas Co. BILL CLEMENS is vice president-director of purchasing for Dubuque, Iowa, Trauscli Bakery. Section head of the trans­mitter section of Sylvania's Electronic Defense Lab in Mountain View, CallL, TOM VOL­BERDING is employed by Boeing /Virplanc Co. (Seattle) engineering department. DICK MILLER, M.D., specialist in obstetrics and gynecology in \Vatcrloo, Iowa, writes that they Iiad their fourth child, a son, last October. DAN BARTON is sccition head of Armour Industrial Chemical Com-
VINCENT P. SLATT, '43 Public Power, in More Ways Than One 
At the beginning of the year Vincc Slatt 

took over as general manager of the far-
flung Inland Light & Power Company, but 
he has been something of a power for good 
in his Spokane. Washington, community 
for fourteen years. 
A native of Butte, Montana, and a gradu­ate of the Irish Christian Brothers' Boys Central High there, Vincc studied electrical engineering at N.D. At graduation he was commissioned in the Na\y and assigned to engineering duty on submarine construc­tion. Released in 1946. he went to Spo­kane and operated as a consulting engineer until 1949 when he became connected with Inland Light & Power. The $9,000,000 rural electric cooperative, with headquar­ters in Spokane, ser\'cs about 9,000 families in 13 counties of northeast Washington and northern Idaho, through 4,000 miles of dis­tribution lines. He became chief engineer in 1956 and general manager this year. 
Vince is a member of the Washington Chapter of Professional Engineers and has been chairman of \*arious committees for the local section of A.LE.E. In 1954 he received the Milton Hunt Maguire a\vard of the Northwest Public Power Association for outstanding engineering achievement. 
Extracurricular activities include chair­manship of the Spokane Committee for the National Employ the Physically Handi­capped Association. In 1958 he was dis­trict governor of Toastmasters International with an area membership of more than 1,000, and in 1954 he was designated the "Top Pop" of Spokane in a letter writing contest conducted in the cit>* grade schools. Active in the Notre Dame Club of Spokane, he was president in 1952 and in 1953 was named Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
In 1944, in Notre Dame's Log Chapel, Vince married Mary Margaret Hennessey, an alumna of St. Mary's College, Xavier, Kansas. They now have five children: Philip, 14; Mar>' Kaye, 13; Stephen, 10; Deborah, 5; and Christopher, 2. 
pany's process research section at the Chicago^ 
plant. DON KOTZ sells bulling compounds for 
the Milwaukee concern, Kacour Co. 
BILL C:\RROLL is a partner in the Woodstock. 

III. law fimi, Carroll & Leall. ADRL\X PADOX is president of the Padon Co., a Casper, \V>-o.. Oil companv. Teclinlcal sales representative JOE ROESCH lives in Belleville, III, and sells for the Mississippi Lime Co. BILL LILJESTROM is regional manager in Dallas for Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp. He writes lliat he saw — after 17 years — BOB DROULET, who is manager of^ Capitol Products' plant in Sherman, Texas. BOB BAUCHMAN is president and general manager of the Bonneville Construction Co. and Idaho Falls Electric Co. in Idaho Falls, Idaho. BOB WALSH sells for Gulf Oil Corp. in Decater, III. AV'ALT J.AWORSKI is supcr\-isor of buildings on campus at Xotre Dame. JOHX J. \\'ALSH Is self-employed as an attorney In Marquette, Mich. GERALD SMITH is professor of English at S:ate University (X.V.) Geneseo. CY DOXEGAX heads the AVoods, Donegan &. Co.. Inc. Xew York mar­keting and public relations firm. J.-VY GIBSOX is resident manager in San Jose, Calif., of Schwa-^ baclier & Co., members of the Xew York Stock Exchange. Principal of one of Stamford. Conn., elementary- schools Is TO.M a-\LL.\HAX. .-\.L. Pachin & Sons. Dayton, Ohio, brokerage. ha.s FR.\XK PACHIX as secretary-treasurer. The Maisena, N^.Y., construction equipment sales com­pany, V. S. Jerry and Sons Corp., lists VIXCE JERRY as v-p. JOE FITZPATRICK of FIiz­patrlck & Weller, Inc., Elllcottville, X.Y., sen.es as chief forester for the manufacturing firm spe­cializing in lumber bowling pins and shoe lasts. Fitz is snper\'isor of his home town and majority leader of the Board of Super\'Isors, Cattaraugus County, X.Y. FRED CHRIST.MAX owns Christ-^ man Cimipany, plumbing and heating contractors,^ 
Terre Haute. Ind. .Another business owner. jUL­lAX MICHEL operates the insurtincc adjusting firm of Michel Adjusting Co.. Charleston, S.C. TOM COURTX'EY is vice president and treasurer of X'ortliern Illinois Corp.. DeKalb. III., sales finance and loan. CO.MM.ANDER GEORGE H.\YES, U.S.N. Is director of staffing for the X'aw in Chicago. In July he will become comp­troller of the Xa\'\- Weapons Lab. Dahlgrcn, Va. 
DOX' POTTER is general manager of the Stewart Warner Electronics Division in Chicago. BOB LE MEXSE is an associate in the Milwaukee law firm of Whyte, Ilirschboeck, Minahan. Hard-^ ing & Hadand. Bob wrote that Fr. GEORGE™ BERNARD, vice president in charge of student affairs at the University, was Milwaukee's UXD Xight speaker. Lc Mense sees JOHX McHALE and BILL DOUCETTE. Bob would like to hear from JOHX LE.\HY. .Aeronautical research engi­neer BILL .McGOW/VX works at Langley Field, Va., for the Xallonal .Aeronautics and Si)acc .Administration. Bill announces the latest arrl\-al, a son, in ApriL GEXE HILKERT has just been appointed X'ew England district manager of Koppers Co., Inc., Pittsburgh, Pa. MIKE CO.MER­FORD serves the Pennsylvania Department of Commerce Industrial Development Board as north-^ eastern regional representative. DR. LOU SP.AC-" XUOLO Is associate surgeon for an ostheopathic group in Detroit, Mich. The balance of the ques­tionnaires will appear in the next Issue of the .Alumnus. 
Too late for the last issue of Tiic .Alumnus u-as a piece on the pmposed X'otre Dame Euro­pean Pilgrimage. 1960, to Lourdes, Rome, Flor­ence, Lucerne, Paris, London and Dublin slated to leave March 12. ED ROXEY was general chairman. Sorr>' it was received too late. Ed writes that ED HICKEY is part owner in a school house fives couples bought and reno\-ated for themselves and families In the Michigan skl 9 countr>*. BOB DOVE resigned as a coach on " the Detroit Lions staff to join the /Vinerican League's Buffalo team in the same capacity. BOB KUIPERS has been transferred from San Fran­cisco by Butterick Co.. publishers. He announces the arrixal last fall of their first, a daughter. And, JACK WIGGIXS employed as Class Secre­tary- announces the arrival of the fourth son (seventh child) on April 12. 
From the Alumni Office: ^ 
PETE CONNELLY has joined ^rassachusetts* Mutual Life's Chicago-Jordan agenc>-. DR. FRANK 
J. SHORTSLEEVE is now director of research in the teclinology department of Union Carbide Metals Co. And an M.rV. of the Class whom some may remember as ROG DI-GIOJA has since altered his • name only slightly to ROGER De GEORGES and is on the permanent staff of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Concep-^ 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1960 
iRon in Washington, D.C. ROBERT E. MORRILL has gone up the ladder to sales manager of national accounts for Universal appliance manu­facturer Landers, Frar>-Sc Clark in New Britain, Conn. Bob and Charlotte have three children. Erstwhile classmate FATHER RICHARD O'BRIEN is the first resident pastor at Dunlap, III., with a mission at Edeblein. He was fonnerly director of Corpus Christ! High, Galesburg, and assistant at Holy Trinity, Bloomtngton, all in the Peoria diocese. 
'ft 944 ^^°^Sc A. Bariscillo, Jr. 100 Second Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 
Top honors for ncwsgalhering assistance were won this time by Mid-West \1cc Prexy "BL.-\CK JOHN" MURPHY, personnel manager for Charles Pfizer Co. in Terrc Haute, Ind. The redoubtable "Black John" rose above and beyond the pro­verbial call of duty, and came through with a handsome bundle of newsy items from '44ers in his realm. Thanks lo his assist -we are able to 
f
cport the folloiving . . . *'RED JOHN" MURPHY is now associated with Illinois Broaching Co. in Chicagoland and re­ported the JIM KANES were expecting again. JOE CO.\ERT\', the proud papa of four little ones, is practicing law under the firm name of Joslyn, Parker, Kell & Conerty in Woodstock, 
^ BRIG. GEN. JOHN A. SCOTT, '38 ^ Last of the Battle-Starred Shoulders 
Jack Scott, former mayor of South Bend, was recently placed on the retired list of the United States Marine Corps Reserve with the rank of brigadier general. At 43, Jack is one of the youngest officers in his-tor>* to achieve general rank in the marines. The law provided that marine officers decorated in actual combat may retire a.t .^ e nc.\t higher rank. Jack won eleven 
Tlecorations during his marine career, in­cluding the Silver Star, Bronze Star with combat "V" and Purple Heart. Pie was wounded in action during the Guam cam­paign. 
General Scott completed twenty years service in July of last year and his promo­tion was one of the last approved by the ^ccretarj- of the Na\->*. The law granting promotion for heroism was repealed by the last congress, cflTective November 1, 1959. At 35, Jack was one of the youngest large-city mayors in the U. S. A school admin­istrator and college instructor before enter­ing politics, he is now vice-president of the Truth Publishing Co. in Elkhart, Indiana. 
Illinois. He is president of the McHcnry County Bar Association, and when not about his law busi­ness is devoting time of late to organizing an 
N.D. club in his county (between Chi & Rock­ford). 
BOB RHODE is practicing law in Sheboygan, Wise, and comments that BUCK MADDEN & family paid them a visit not long ago. Madden is on the faculty at the University of Indiana and Just completed his first book. . . . JIM CROW­LEY (Bob's roommate) is with the Moore-Mc­Cormick Shipping Lines in N.Y. . . . JOHN NABER is a stock broker in Shawano. Wise, and manages real estate in northern Wisconsin. 
Not that our entire class became members of the noble profession, but still another attor­ned' checks in with this interim report: BOB MILFORD (of Milford & Milford, Marion, Ind.) reports on the family (5 boys & 2 girls). . . . and his loan corporation (take note) which he and his brother operate together with a real estate and insurance business. . . . FR.\NK GROVES was a recent guest of the Milfords on a trip through Marion from Indianapolis where Frank sells ladies' garments. 
Milwaukee ED .VLTE.VDORF met Class Treas­urer TOM ROLFS at a high school 20th year reunion meeting in West Bend. Wise., recently. Ed is systems and procedures manager for Nord­berg Mfg. Co., dabbling in programming & processing procedures and electronic data ma­chines, etc. Ed is Irj'ing to locate the Friday nile bxskelball gang — those who went to Rosic's on Friday and then to the Rockne Memorial for basketball. He can be contacted at ^931 N. Santa Monica Blvd.. Milwaukee 17. 
WALLIE CHRIST.MAN h still whh Green Bay (Wise.) Foundrj* & Macliinu Works, and doing a lot of traveling to paper mills, meat­packing plants & canneries. He is presently prexy of the ND club in Green Bay. and re­ports that bro-in-law JOE NEUFELD is well and happy. 
HERB CL.\RK and family moved from Chi to Toledo a few years ago where he is sales manager for Text ileal her. a division of General Tire and Rubber Co. He's a traveler too, cov­ering 16 offices from Bo>ton to L..-\. ("never goes in them, just moves between them*'). In Rochester Herb sees liJs "old roomie" "STRETCH" DESI.MO.V, and in X.Y. he visited J. MURRAY where the latter has charge of money for Ever-sharp "in a tall pile of stones and brick on Fifth .-Xveniie between 33rd & 34th streets." Ac-curding lo Herb, JOE FARMER is sales manager for the Police Appliance Store in Chi. 
W.-\RRE.V HAYES (Cincinnati) is also a sales manager, for Blacker Printing Ink Co., serving printers and lithographers in a five-state area. PAUL DOHR is in his tenth year as owner and nigr, of Dohr's Hardward in Peshtigo, Wise. 
Class President JOHN LYNCH lias been de­voting all of his free time to completing the " 1944 Class Survey ... . 15 Years After," and the first proofs reached me last week. Near­ly complete is the Herculean job of tabulating, anah-zing, classifying, and correlating the facts, statistics and opinions contained in the 5ur\'ey which was participated in by 46.2 per cent of the class (representing, incidentally, a fantastic return, far surpassing any previous sur\'eys made by other alumni classes). The results are posi­tively amazing. The final product of LyncJi's labors should be ready for distribution by fall. 
Have had some interesting correspondence and telephone conversations with BOB DUNNE whose new address is (get this!) Vcr>* Merr>* Road, Stamford, Conn. Bob is in charge of press rela­tions for Esse Research and Engineering Co. in the N.Y. office. His Journalism classmate and army "buddy" FR/VNK ENGISH (New Rochellc) & family socialize frequently with the Dunnes. 
BILL WALDRON, our Eastern vice-president, reports the passing of BOB VON HOENE last fall. Bill recently co-chairnianned the Universal 
N.D. nitc here in Jersey. 
Class Treasurer TO.\I ROLFS, and myself, have been following up suggestions made at our 13th reunion for planning some significant project for the class between now and our 25th reunion in 1%9. It had been suggested we explore the possibilities of cstablbhing a fund ear-marked for scholarship purposes in honor of the de­ceased members of our class, which would be presented lo the University at the time of our silver anniversaiA*. After due deliberation with University officials this past January at Notre Dame during the Class Secretaries' Conference and through correspondence thereafter, it was de­termined to table the project for a time to avoid any conflict with the forthcoming library project which is the immediate urgent target of the Alumni Foundation program. Those who taxot" cd the proposal at the time of our 15th rcimion last year felt that systematic contributions to the suggested silver onniversiiry fund, projected over 10 years, would result in a somewhat pain­less method for gathering together a fairly sub­stantial memorial gift; however, in deference lo recommendations by University officials the project must be postponed at this time. It merits rc\'i\'al prior to our 20th reunion with final decision at that time whether to carry through or abandon. 
FRiVNK VIGNOLiV has recommended that our class undertake a special program aimed tou'ards educating ourselves and others on the evils of Communism. He proposes an Anti-Communism crusade (which you will hear more about in a special mailing), commencing with the formation of Cardinal ^findszenty Catholic Study groups on Communism and Communist theory. Those interested may contact Frank direct at 7617 West North Avenue, River Forest, Illinois, for brochures, pamphlets, prepared tapes, etc. Frank attended the San Francisco anti-communism conference in Marcli and had a personal conference with Herb Philbrick. The project merits serious consideration by all of us and you arc encouraged to write to Frank Vignola for more information. From the Alumni Office: 
Since the above w-as written, FRANK VIGNOLA has completed a new anti-commie project, taking diargc of a week-long course of ''Education for American Security*" at Glenview Naval x\ir Station the last week of .-Vugust. Na\*\'-5ponsored it's an intensive course for laymen on the contrasts between /American and Soriet political theory and methods, combined with a discussion work­shop for developing leadership, conducted by a stellar faculty from the F.B.I., C.I..'\., Army, Na\y, etc. (including N.D. faculty). It was ex­pected to attract citizens by the hundreds. More power, Frank. 
Incidentally, since many classmates are still 
"Officers' Night, U. N. Club, Kunming, China" is the title of a painting by Wil­liam P. McCarthy, '38, judged the best primitive in a recent open competition sponsored by the Art Advisory Council of Port Washington, N. Y*, Public Library. Bill, a Fine Arts grad and map engineer, played football under Elmer Layden, cap­tained the professional New York Yankees (1937) and a U. S. Na\y team in China during W.W. II, has done some semi-pro coaching. A reserve Lt. commander, Bill lives in Port Washington with his wife and two youngsters. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September^ 1960 65 
skeptical, wc have violated policy in tliis issue 
to brinj you a picture of tlic girl who finally 
snared the Class' canniest bachelor, GEORGE 
BARISCILLO. Look for it. 
A five column feature slor>- entitled "White 
Collar Administrator?" in a Louisville newspaper 
asks: ''Which suburban city mayor ^ras threaten­
ed with arrest for trespassing? Has an engineering 
degree, yet cams his living as a baker? Is liardly 
recognizable in a business suit?" and answers: 
"It's BERNARD F. BOWLING, mayor of the 
fourth-class city of St. Matthews." Bemic dons 
workman's clothes and pitclics in on all cixic 
projects (currently a new City Hall); he was 
once challenged on a sewer job by a landowner 
who forgot tlie public easement. He scr\es with­
out pay, as docs the City Council, the planning, 
zoning and tax boards. A civil engineer, he once 
managed a construction company but. later bought 
into the bakery business. Bemic believes in "open 
book" goxemment and enjoys his public service 
except that it leaves little time for home life 
with the Bowlings* nine children. 
Another nine-time father is ALFRED J. (PETE) 
BROSSF*AU, named 19G0 "Father of the Year" 
by the Rotary Club of San Antonio, Tex. Marine 
vet of W. \V, H and Korea. Pete was named 
not solely for his six girls and three boys, ages 
I to 13, but for bis youth 5cr\'ice work with 
the Catholic Athletic Assn. (first and current 
president). Boy Scouts, Rotar>-, Knights of Co­
lumbus and his own St. Paul's parish. Married to 
the former Mar\' Hynes, Pete owns Acme Cover 
Co. in San Antonio. 
We're proud of Pete and Bern and hope to 
get pictures of both with their respective base­
ball teams and managers (wives, that it), so 
that evcr^'onc can sec them. 
JOHN F. LAWSOX, town attorney of Ti­
condeniga. X.Y., was a. strong contender for 
the Republican nomination as a candidate for 
state senator from New York's 39th District, 
but we haven't heard whether he made it in 
tlic Jime 7 primaries. Associated with brothers 
Gerald and Thomas in the law firm of Lau-son 
and Lawson. John is married to the former 
Claire Johnson and father of Marcia, aged four. 
IQAC Al Lcsincz I y-T^ 122 Tullamore Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRAN*TS JOHN BEAURIVAGE, GEORGE BELLEMESHI, WILLIAM BRACKEN, JAMES BRAUN, JOHN BR020, JAMES C. BUTLER, JOHN CARON, DAMD R. CARTWRIGHT, DONALD CISLE, DONALD CL.AEYS, JAMES J. CLYNES, MARK CROXIN, DESMOND CURRIER, VINCENT GUSHING, JxVMES DILLON, JAMES DONNEL­LY, J.\MES DUGAN, A EDWARDS, JOHN EL­LIOTT, JOSEPH E. FAUST, MICHAEL G. GARRY, HARRY J. GILLIGAN, BERNARD E. GOTTA, ^\•ILLIAM F. GRANT, CHARLES HASTINGS, VERNON HECHT, JOHN HOR­RIGAN, PAUL HURD, JOHN JOH.\SON, WIU LIAM KLE.M, RAYMOND KOPITUK, EDWARD LaROCQUE, VINCE.\T LAURITA, RICHARD LEITE, AL LESMEZ, FR^VXCIS ^L LLXEHAN, BROCK L^-NCH, THOMAS McCAUGHEY, WIL­LIAM J. McNEIL, JOHN G. MACK, CLIFFORD MARKS, ROBERT NL\URER, WILLIAM MOORE, THOMAS MULHERN, JAMES A. O'CONNOR, JOSEPH D. O'KEEFE, ROBERT 
H. OTOOLE, HENRY B. PAYNE, CHARLES 
W. POWERS, GERALD F. PUTNAM, JOSEPH QUILL, JAMES R. RETTER, ROBERT RI­ORDAN, HARRY RYAN, E.MMET SHEERAN, GEORGE R. SIPPEL, PAUL W. S.MITH, ROB­ERT SNEE, RED.MOND TONER, WILLIAM WADDINGTON, HARRY WALTERS, HUGH WARD, JOHN WELCH, CHARLES J. WOLF. A Point Before Tlie Fact: 
Your class secretary is filing this column four weeks before the class reunion, but deadlines and sdiedules demand a certain amount of prior reponing. So, it is with complete confidence in our local committee, headed by BILL KLEM, and in most members of the class that I *'rcport** that we had a ver>' successful reunion. Your new class secrclarj- will report the details in the next issue. TIic registrants above, however, are exactly as logged in. 
New Class Officers: 
For the next 5 years, the class business and its future will be directed by a new slate of officers recently elected. (Ed. note; JIM RETTER, president; FIIANK LINEHAN, secretary; vice-presidents ART EDWARDS [East], MIKE GARRY 

66 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
JAMES J. CLYNES, JR., /4 5 Tireless on tlic Wireless, Tops in N. Y. 
This year, as he wound up his term as president of the Class of '45,, James J. Clynes, Jr., was selected as one of the five outstanding men of New York State and presented a plaque by the State Junior Chamber of Commerce. Jim had recently been presented with the Ithaca Jaycees' distinguished service award. The State selec­tion was made by a committee of Niagara Falls area leaders in education, industr>*, business, civic and state affairs. TTie judges considered contributions to the community, state and countr>-, and the general welfare; e\-idence of personal or business progress; and demonstration of leadership ability as shown in civic and personal achievements. 
Jim was an honor student, tennis whiz and leader on campus. After service, law at Cornell, and apprenticeship in New York, he became a partner in the Ithaca law firm of Trcman & Clynes. Last year he was one of four who purchased Radio Station WOLF, Syracuse; WTKO, Ithaca; and an FAl chain known as the Northeast Radio Net^vork, which has outright ownership of five FM stations and is affiliated with 32 stations throughout the state. 
An officer and director of fifteen cor­porations, Jim is executive vice-president and secretar>' of the Northeast Radio Net­work and I\'y Broadcasting Company, a holding company which operates the radio stations. He is also a former president of the Notre Dame Club of New York; vice president of the New York State Young Democrats; chairman of the Tompkins Count>' Young Democrats; a member of the Fourth Degree Assembly of the Knights of Columbus; chairman of the 1957 and 1959 New York State Junior Chamber of Com­merce Golf Tournaments; former prosecutor and corporation counsel of Ithaca. 
Upon completion of Jim*s term last December the Board of Public Works of the City of Ithaca, for the first time in its his­tory, presented a plaque for his "tireless cfTorts in the cause of good government." 
[West], JOE HAGGAR [South], JOHN C^ROT^ [Midwest]; and JIM DONNELLY, treasurer. J.L.) Good luck to the new officers; each member of the class should lend his active support be­cause many hours of hard work goes into ful­filling cacli of these posts. 
Did You Know Tliat: 
Did you know that JIM SCHWEICKERT an­
nounced the arrival of hb fourth child, Eric Jon, 
Jim's tliird son, December 3rd ... . that 
ROBERT EARL THOMAS, LCDR, USN movef 
from Annapolis, Mar>'land, to I0I3 Adclla Ave­
nue, Coronado, California. . . that JOHN AN­
DREW KNORR moved from Massillon. Ohio to 
2406 llth Street, N.W., Canton Ohio . . .that 
HENRY JONATH/VN PISANKO now resides at 
U.S. Naval Teclmical Training, Unit Naval No. 935, F.P.O., San Francisco. California . . . that ARTHUR BARTHOLOMEW CONNORS' new address is 66 Mossman Road, Sudburv, Mass. . . that FRANCIS MATHEW LINEH.VN now re­sides at 29 Burr Drive, Dalton, Mass. . . that ROBERT CRONIN was appointed to the Indian^ Toll Road Commission by Gov. Harold W. Hant ^ ley . . . that Bob and his father James Cronin, Jr., arc both Hartford City bankers and Demo­crats . . . that Bob is a private pilot and presi­dent of the Hartford City Board of Aviation Commissioners . . . that ALFRED Wx\DE AL-LEN's new address is 2810 Hillendalc Dr., Jack­son, Micliigan . . . that JOSEPH D. USINA now resides at USS W.R. Rush (DDR 714) c/o F.P.O., N.Y., N.Y. . . . that WILLIAM ASHER NELSON is now living at 1252 Boston Mills Road, Hudson, Ohio . . . that JOHN PETER FLEAKA resides at 78 Charles, Struthcrs, Ohio , . . that DR. ^\^LLIAM AUGUSTIN CLx\RKE, JR. has a new address. Box 436, Main Strce^ New Hartford, Conn. . . . DR. JOHN MERLI^ GUTHRIE, JR. now lives at 505 Hcnr>* Street, Green Bay, Wis. . . . that JOHN GR^VNT MACK, Jr*s ne^v residence is 713 Greenwood, Willmettee, 
III. .. . that DR. JOHN JOSEPH DOWLING now lives at 1432 Monk Road, GIadw>*ne, Pa. . . . that DR. PATRICK ^\NTHONY XJAZZA moved from SliiUington, Pa., to 1307 Orcliard Road, \\'yomissing Park, Reading Pa. 
Lost & Found Dept: Correspondence is '\^'aiting to be opened. Please help ws find the following members: JOHN Wlh­LL\M ADA.MS, FARRE JOSEPH PEQUIGNET# and BRO. MICHAEL JOSEPH MURPHY. ^ 
Letters From Department: 
From FR.\NCIS A. SMITH, JR.: "I have been 
meaning to write to you for some time to let 

you know that my new address is 44 Flat Rock 
Road, Easton, Conn. Subject to court commitments, 
I plan to attend the fifteenth reunion. . ." 
From HARRY J. WALTERS, JR: "I have just received your schedule of activities of the Class Reunion. I want to enter my rescr\-ations prompt­ly and enthusiastically. Please ask the Chief Vice-President in charge of room arrangements to scL JI.M CL\'NES, FRiVNK LENIH.VX and me ^ the same room. Wc plan to knock down, at least, three walls. 
"Best regards to you and congratulations on the wonderful job you have done as Class Scc­retar>'.*' 
From BILL GR^VNT: **I am planning on mak­ing the Class Reunion — Sorry I Iiaven't given a 'for sure' answer before this .. . I am look­ing fortvard to seeing the illustrious group." 
From J.D, USINA: "This is to adx-isc that I won't be at the 15-year reunion next month. I have held olF writing in the hope that a scliedule cliange or some fluke might make it possible f^­me to get to South Bend — no such luck! 
"The rush will be starting tlie summer phase of Atlantic Fleet exercises and will have embark­ed a good sized group of Na\"al Academy and NROTC midshipmen for their annual cruise. 
"Please express my regrets at the proper time and know that on the big weekend I will cer­tainly have my heart in South Bend and on the campus with you all. I wish the reunion every' success and thank the committee for the magnificent and persistent job being done J^ bring us together again on the campus." " 
From BROTHER ISAAC JOGUES MOTZ, C.S.C.: "May the peace of Christ be with you. Congratulations, Al, on the tremendous job you arc doing to stimulate reunion enthusiasm among the class of *45. Tlie schedule, which I received tliis morning, looks very appealing. I surely ^^-ould like to get in on the Saturday afternoon golf deal, althougli my free time will be qui ^ 
''Simltcd during the week-end of the reunion. My present assignments, as Assistant Master of Novices at Saint Joscph*s Novitiate, will not allow me to take ofT more than a few hours at a time during the week-end of the reunion, since my superior will be away at a graduation in New­port, Rhode Island. In his absence it is my work to carr>- on the program of novice training, here. However, my schedule would make it pos­sible lor me to get into Notre Dame on Satur­day afternoon, since I am only a 35-minute 
/«drivc from the campus. My golf is being some­
"vha t neglected these days, but perhaps with a 10 point handicap my score card might not look too much like spaceman's travel report. 
"I surely hope I can get ia to meet some of the Class for a little while on June II. For the members of the class who haven't been back since 1953, the guided tour of the campus should be realty worthwhile, and boy! what beautiful campus changes are in store for them. 
"Feel free to call on me, if I can be of any assistance to you or the reunion committee, since I live quite near the campus and average about 
.^n c trip there each week. " God bless you and the entire reunion 
' "May an plans." From JACK McGR^VNE: "Sorr>* but I can't sec how I'll be able to make the reunion. I surely em-y you and the others who will be getting together again.** From CHUCK WOLF: "I'll be Uicrc at our I5-ycar reunion June 10-12 '60." From Mrs. R/\Y BADDOUR: ".\ray I tell you what a grand job you have done for the Class of '43. I know it has taken much time and effort on your part — and it really slimvs! 'nie>*'rc going to miss you! I would like to write you a alittle of Rays' doings, since he's not Hkcly to 
'Wo it himself; hc*s so busy. For the past several years he's been associate prof. In the chemical engineering dcpt. at M.I.T, In March, 1959, We visited Russia. The University of Moscow held a chemical Conference in which nineteen countries of the world took part. The United States was asked to send six delegates and Ra\-mond was one of the six! I whisked the cliildrcn off to mother's and I went too! We were guests of The M.I.T. Alumni Club of England in London first. Then a lew days in Paris. Tlien Moscow and the Conference. After the Conference was over (2 weeks), we trained mLo Leningrad for a three-day tour of the city, Wicluding the Winter Palace, now called the Hermitage Museum, What a treasure house! One entire huge room is filled with Rcmbrandts. The place is magnificent! The rest of the country really suffers In comparison. We trained back to ^foscow, then flew to Helsinki, Finland, then a few days in Copenhagen. Denmark, and a few-days in Paris to top it off. Then London again and home. Home never looked so good! 
"Two years ago Ray learned the Russian language in order to keep abreast of their teclinl­cal publications. He now translates one or two articles a week. 
^ "As for his family. I am his wife Anne, a 
W>rmer air line stewardess. Now I am a part-time stewardess for a priv-ate company. I am also a commercial pilot and enjoy fl>-ing the air races. (I've been in five, even %von a couple of them!) Wc have three good-looking, but rascal children! They all look like Ray! Cynthia, 5, Frederick, 3 years, and Jean. 1 year. I guess that's about it for now. You'll probably be seeing Ray at the reunion this June. I know he's looking for­ward to being there." (Thank you for the news and the good words. Your trip soimds perfect. More wives should write in for busv hubbies. . . Al) 
.' ^ From BUD M.AHER: "Am unable to attend. ^favc a good lime and remember me to the gang." 
From JI.M PARIS: "I guess each time I write to you it's because I've gotten a new address, but the present one (Alaska) is really as far out" as I can gel. 
"I'm still with Lockheed Missiles & Space Division, though, and am up here as manager of the Alaskan Tracking Station, whicli is a part of the network of such stations established for the Discoverer Project. Tlie work is quite ab­
sorbing — practically completely so, inasmuch as 
' ^ live right on the station. I've had to leave the family ensconced back in our house in Palo Alto, Calif., but the tour of duty here xs only for one year, and already I've been here two months, so it's not too bad. .-Vud I did get back home over the Christmas holidays. I expect to get back to the main plant (and to my wife and 3 children) every 2 to 3 montlis on ofliclal trips. As of now, I've been in or through 49 of the 30 states, lacking only South Dakota to make a clean sweep. 
'*I guess I'll have to miss the 15-year reunion, but I'll send an 'Eskimo Pie' to represent me. I'll try for the 20th!" 
From DICK LEITE: "This is slightly late for a Christmas greeting. I hope you'll accept my apologies for being so late — the fact that I am using the card has some merit however. Since a week before Christmas our lives have been rather complex. First, the flu hit me, Mark, and my wife. This occupied about three weeks. Then my mother died very suddenly of pneumonia on Janu­ary 26. The next item of business is the forth­coming addition to the family in a couple of weeks if things go according to schedule. My job in research and part-time teacliing here at University of Michigan Is going well but busy. See you in June." 
From JULES J. aVTTIE: "Just a note of thanks for accepting me into the Class of '45 where I feel I really belong. I went through the ROTC and received my commission with BUD GOTTA, HANK FR^VILEY, JACK KIN­NEY, BILL KLEM and others, and although I did not receive my degree until I came back after the war, I also feel with the speed-up pro­gram, I would have received it in 1945. You mentioned in your letter that you would see that my class record was also changed at the University and I also want to thank you for tliat. I was wondering If I should notify JACK MILES, the secretary of the Class of '45 about my transfer or Is he notified by the University. [I took care of this . . . Al] 
"I was sorry I was not able to sec JACK KENNE Y when he was in town, however, Avhen he called I was to a meeting. It would have been nice showing him our new home, talking over old times and visiting with my family. My wife Joan is from Pittsburgh, Pa., and we have five wonderful children: Kathleen i\nnc, Jules Joseph, Jr., John Edward, Anne Marie, and Joan ^larie. I myself will have been associated with the Pennsylvania Manufacturers fVssociatlon Casualty Insurance Company 1500 Dc Kalb Street, Norrestown, Pa., 12 years by March, 1960. 
"Enclosed find a check for my class dues, also a picture of the Walsh Hall terrors." (To be posted in Dillon during reunion . . . Al) 
From "GABBY" H.-\RTNETT: "As you know I'm not a letter writer — but had to sit down and say you can count on me for the lath-year reunion. Wouldn't miss It for the world — God willing." 
From MRS. J. D. USINA: "J.D. Is on a 7­month cruise to the Mediterranean as £.xecutlve officer of the William R. Rush (DDR714). a Destroyer. He left In August and returns in Marcli, so we are awfully lonesome this Christmas. He is enjoying the turn very much but is pretty homesick. Our best to you and your family." (Thank vou, Pat. It's wonderful to hear from you . . . .\1) 
From BROTHER ROBERT BELLx\R.MINE, 

CS.C: "I appreciate the perseverance witlr which you have for%\-arded class literature to me for all these years. Unresponsive class members, no doubt, are no novelty to you. I have been Headmaster of a High School for aboriginal Goro students here In East Pakistan for the past twelve years, and though the school is a %-eiy poor one by American standards, so far as equipment is concerned, I enjoy working mth these aborigines very much. 
"FATHER CHESTER SCHNEIDER is In charge of the parish, assisted by FATHER JAMES MADDEN and a Goro priest. 
"Keep up your good work!" 
From FATHER ED HENNESSY. C.S.C.: "Al­though I never knew you at the University, the way you've bombarded us descr^'cs at least this brief response. Fathers DONAHUE and HENNES­SY are stationed at King's College, WIlkes-Barre, Pa., %%-herc Father Donahue is head of the Biology Dcpt., and Father Hennessy teaches Political Science." 
From JOHN G. BROZO: "Count me in for the reunion In June. Have just completed a two-year tour of duty as an operations officer on the Staff of Comniander Carrier Di\TsIon Sbc, Flag Ship USS Saratoga. From here (Jax) we move to Nc\\port, Rhode Island to attend the Nax-al War College for about a year. 
"On the last Mediterranean Cruise, saw J.D. USINA during a fleet conference. As you know he is X.O. of the USS Rush and doing his usual excellent job. His ship was one of the radar pickets for the carrier force. Tried to talk him into making the reunion but his duties are rather demanding during the summer months. 
"This next tour of duty was rather a surprise for I had hoped to go back to a night fighter squadron for some of that good old flying duty again. The Navy has other ideas! So, It's back to scliool for me. 
"Christine and son, James L., have been living here in Jacksonville, Florida for the past two years, while I was at sea but are looking for­ward to the Newport area." A Sad Fare\vcll . . . 
This Is my last column for a while. I must admit that it has been enjoyable, although some­times most frustrating . . . frustrating because so many of you find it so hard (even Impossible) to sit down to answer a card or a letter. But now-I put my typewriter away for a while to Stow fat and lazy. Good luck to my successor. You of the Class of *45, please don't forget to ease his task a little by writing him once in a wlilie. I know I AVIII. S'long for now .. . Al. From the /Mumni Office: 
So long, Al. As rcunlonists know, the Class not only gave you an extraordinary tribute but near­ly got you back as an officer by write-in vote. As for "the revolt of the admirals" in the Class election, JOHN L.\UGHLIN, '48, of the Alumni Office has made a complete tally of ballots re­ceived by the announced deadline, and detailed results are a\-ailable on request. A hea\y \otc 
LOS ANGELES—^Discussing the program for N.D. Night with the newly partitioned NJ). Club of Los Angeles are (I. to r.) Donley L. Brady, outgoing president; Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, G.S.C, guest from the campus; Hon. John J. Ford, associate justice of the District Court of Appeal and principal speaker; and Pat O'Brien, toastmastcr. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
Tor the slate headed by BILL KLEM is a tribute to his uork with the local committee, DON CLAEYS, VINXE LAURITA, BOB RIORDAN, etc: few could object to a menu that •was 100 proof. 
REV. WILLIAM H. DONAHUE, C^.C, has been promoted to vice-president of King's College since FATHER HENNESSY reported on him, and JOHN G. MACK, JR., an assistant manager of sales for Inland Steel, is taking an ad\-anccd management counc at the Han.'ard Business School. 
1 94A J^*=^ '^"^Sc, Jr. 
1 #-»w 2025 W. Six Mile Rd. 
Detroit 3, Michigan 
From the Alumni Oflicc: 
With the 15lh anniversary reunion only a feu­months au-ay, it's .time for all loj-al survi\'ors of '46 to begin talking it up via this cx>lumn. 
First to answer muster is FRANK FOSS, whose Air Force address is 144 Lighthouse Drive, APO 845, New* York, N.Y. Frank writes; **I'm getting out of toucli with too many of the old gang from Sorin Sub and Alumni Hall, so- here's a long overdue report on my activities. 'We have six cttitdrcn now, two bo>*s and four girls, tlic eldest eight years old — they represent ray major activity, you might say. Wc live on Ramcy Air Force Base, Puerto Rico, where I am director of education for the 4.000 military* personnel sta­tioned here. Tlie island is a lovely place to live, witli year-round fishing, s^vimming, and golf. Tlie latter sport is my chief relaxation, and I break 80 once in a while. On the religious side, I've served a term as president of the Holy Name Society here." 
Frank reports Notre Darners scarce and evi­dently inactive in Puerto Rico. He would like to hear from some classmates, and so v%'ouId this department. If he were assured of meeting some buddies on the campus. lie could probably wangle a furlough come Jane, 1951. 
1947 J^** ^^^^ 
' '^ ' 3218 Bcntley Lane South Bend, Ind. 
TEMPUS FIDGETS . . . 
Another graduating class has been evicted from Our Lady's campus, and that makes us all a year older. Will there be enough starch left in us ol' grads to run up a big turnout at the 1952 reunion? I'll be there . . . that's one. Start planning NOW to build on that ratlter weak foundation, y'hcali? 
Lest it be thought that the ALUMNUS has dropped its no-^vcdding-picture policy by celebrating the recent nuptials of George Bariscillo, '44, and Susan Perella, ^vc an­nounce the society page open only to veteran class secretaries long beliei*cd to be hopelessly hardened bachelors. 
SYMPATHY . . . 
is extended to ELMER "MOOSE" NWTTHEWS and to CHUCK ZITNIK on the recent deatlis of their beloved fathers; please pray for the souls of tliese faithful departed and their sorrm\-ing survivors. And never let a week go by that you don't say a prayer for the 14 men of '47 who Iiavc gone before us. 
DOMES, AN\*ONE? 
JOHN DEFANT, *48, until recently di­rector of publications at the University, passes along the word that a ntunber of 1947 DOMES is available, unbound, for any of you who may want one or more. Two dollars will cover postage from the University Press, Stanford Hall, Noire Dame, Indiana. 
BLASTS FROM THE WINDY CITY Earlier this year, as we reported last column, we spent a week in Chicago at the Boat Show;' during that time, wc had a chance to contact several of the lads . . . not as many as we wished, but at least wc can report on some of the doings and some of the doers. DICK ARADO is a dentist in the big city, and JOE FARNfAR a barrister. Also practicing law arc FRANK McDONNELL, JR., and BILL McGAH; the latter, father of three, is in the law firm of Wliitty & McGali, the aforementioned Mr. Wliitty being a 1911 N.D. grad and the McGah referring mainly to Bill's dad. JIM ^fcCORMICK and JORGE PRIETO are doctors, and PHIL McDONALD — who, inci­dentally, has a already indicated his intent to attend the 15-ycar reunion — is in the insurance adjustment biz with his father; Phil is still a baclielor and lives at the family home. A pair of Oak Park neighbors, JIM CORMACK and JACK NOONAN, have provided their ad­jacent lots with plenty of exploding populace: Jim and his wife have four boys and three girls, Jack three boys and two gals. Jack is still a trusted agent for the FBI, and was on the campus in April for the 50th jubilee of the student Knights of Columbus, being a Past Grand Knight, and Jim is a chemist with Con­tinental Can. JOHN TOKICH is also with Continental Can, as a division manager of production engineering. RAY STRUBLE was teaching In I.I.T.'s math department, but I was advised he had resigned and u-asn't able to rcacli him for a current as­signment. CLINT FIRESTONE, national account repre­sentative for the tire and rubber company in the western United States, reports he visited recently with JEAN SENEGAL (the Magnificent), who is now manager of Bristol-Myers* European division in New York and was formerly with Proctor & Gamble in Paree. Whec! Sorry I didn't talk with more in Chicago, but boat sliows will take me back there twice more in the fall and we'll try to contact more of you. Of course, there's no law against your contact­ing me, you know! 

PERRY ISNT THE ONLY ONE Wc get letters, too . . . though not as many. SAM ADELO sends an issue of Kendavis's house magazine in which he is pictured attend­ing the New York Export Party (the doesn't seem to be beating anyone to the check, either!); reported elected secretary-treasurer of the Fort Worth Good Neighbor Council; identified as the narrator and distributor of a Spanish-language version of a 23-minutc movie on international oil operations, and praised as unofHcial host and interpreter for 10 South American ambassadors attending the recent South American Forum in Dallas. You won't believe this, but. just as I was writing the above another letter from the amazing Adclo arrived, tiiis one enclosing a reprint of an article on translation of oil terms whicli he author­ed for the May, 1960, edition of "Petroleo In­icramcricano." Sam writes; **News of? JOE BOLAND's death was shocking to me; had seen Joe several limes in the last few* years while traveling about the country'." From BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, C.S.C.: "On Marcli 19 we were greatly Iionored by having as our guests the Papal Internuncio to Pakistan and our own ARCHBISHOP L. L. GRANER, CS. a It is tlie first time since 1927 that an Inter­nuncio had visited this part of the missions .. . (he) was very mud) pleased .. . to see sucli a big mission here at Bandura' . . . 
"I took two weeks off recently while sclioo^ 
was closed and cycled up through the Garo 
Mission stations to the north where I used to 
be stationed just to see the men and what they 
arc doing. Tlie trip in all was a couple of hundred 
miles — good exercise if nothing else. 
"TIic hot weather has been witli us about a 
month or more now, up around 105 F. eveiT day. 
Due to the heat we have what we call morning 
school . . . starting at 6 a.m. in order to finish 
around 10 before the worst heat of the day. 
This blazing Bengal sun on a tin roof tends t ^ 
cook one." " 
SQUIBS JIM MURPHY reports DAVE KORTY has be­come manager of a branch of the Lafayette Loan & Trust Co. in Lafeyctte, Ind., and JOE EMOND, a Vancouver resident, recently came through on a trip with his parents through their 
old Midwest home area; Joe's personnel admin­istrator of St. Joseph's Hospital in Vancouver. CHARLIE POINSATTE has been promoted from 

assistant to associate professor of history at St. Mary's College. FATHER WALTER O. BOZEK has been iransg ferrcd to Blessed Sacrament parish in Bridgeport^ Conn. JIM McGURK has deserted Chicago for Pequannock, N. J., and BOB WELCH has come nortti to Waukesha, Wis., from Dallas. FATHER JOE CxVNNON has mover from the University of Portland to St. Francis Xavier parish in Burbank, Calif. DR. JOE FINNEY is with the State Mental Health Dcpt. in Honolulu. 
CHANGES OF ADDRESS . . . .. . are on record for RUSS STECHSCHULTE; PAT SMID; JOHN McCABE; BOB KOSINSKIa KEVIN a\RLEY; GERRY BARTA; MART M KILSDONK; DICK DEEB; RED ALLMAN; FRED JONES; DR. ED POLITOSKE, and BILL HASSETT. 
COMLNG ATTRACTIONS 

Your Secretary is headed east for a jaunt through New Jersey, New York, Ontario, and Micliigan; next issue wc promise some data on a few of the ''aluminums'* out that way. 
If you haven't seen your own name or that of your best friends in this pillar, look in the mirror and you'll sec who's at fault. In the words of Brother Adelo: "Escribamc, pronto!" M From the Alumni Office: " 
A fe%v more notes on Chicagolandcrs: Car czar BILL JANN is now assistant vice-president of The Hertz Corp., retaining his former job as sales manager for the Rent A Car division. Bill, Jo Anne and the two cliildren live in Chicago Heights. Evanstonian JAMES DRISCOLL GRIFF-
Athletic Director Ed Krausc, '34, presents Chicago Tribune sports columnist Dave Condon, *45, an honorary referee of the 1960 Bengal Bouts in April. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 
(* 
IN has been immortalized by the society columns for marr\-ing British nobility. Jlm^s bride of June 18 is the former Lady Jane Bingham, daughter of the Earl and Countess of Lucan, who trace their Hncagc through several baronetcies and an earldom in County Mayo to Sir John dc Bingham, a Norman knight of the reign of Henry I. Afarricd in E\'anston, they live in Grecnwicli, Conn., where Lady Jane is a doctor and **Lord Jim" (apologies to Conrad) commutes 
:o work in \Vhite Plains, N.Y. 
(#' VERNON D. (MICKEY) MoXRDLE, the Fort Wayne (Ind.) organ virtuoso, is pretty proud of his number one daughter, Mar>- Margaret, who was valedictorian of her high school class with a fantastic near-perfect scliotastic average and several national honors in French, Latin, etc. It reminds us that her old man boned up on his foxhole French while writing a thesis on diminished sevenths to win his master's degree in music. Congratulations to EDWARD A. SAMPIERRE, president of a new industrial dicmical distributor­ship, Sanipierrc Chemical Corp., 331 Madison Avenue, New York City. He set up his own lompany after 10 years with Dow Chemical, mostly in the New York area . . . Also to rocketr>- whiz DR. WALTER B. La-BERGE of Menio Park, Cal., on his appoint­ment as director of engineering for the Western Development Laburalorics of Phiico Corp. in Palo Alto. Finally to JLM .MURPHY, N.D. director of public info, for having been named a director of the Indiana College Public Relations Assn. 
1948 ^°^" Defant 
* c/o University Press ^* Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTR/\NTS ROBERT DUDENHOEFER, JAMES FERSTEL, JOHN L.\UGHL!N. 
From the Alumni OiHce: 
Because of deadlines and a communication mbt­up we were unable to give JOSEPH N. FLOOD the pltig he deserved in the last issue. Early this year Joe purchased Notre Dame Boys' Camp at Bankson Lake, Michigan, from the Holy Cross 
^rolhcr s and was anxious to have all N.D. men 
IvLnow* that he would be open for business this summer. Sorr>", Joe, but from time to time in the future we'll remind all men with camping-age kids (7-15) that they can get detailt-d info by writing you 38925 Albert Blvd., ^^ount Clemens, iticli. (ph. HO 8-3612). Tlierc's a fine chapel on the grounds, and the camp will maintain the high Catholic standards inculcated by the brothers. 
Joe has been coaching and teaching most of the past 12 years. An instructor-coach at Austin Catholic High in Detroit, he has worked with city recreation programs in Rochester, N.Y., and Saginaw, Midi. He and Elaine have been married 
^11 years and have five sons and three daughters. 
(^Pi^^d the word about the camp, men. Remember ROBERT J. DONLIN? With the Class in Commerce for three years. Bob com­pleted work in business administration at Mon­tana Stale U., but he's intensely interested in 
N.D. affairs and distressed that Montana Club activity is at such a low ebb. Formerly on the "lost" list. Bob lives at 1923 Lockey, Helena, ^lont., and travels about the state for the Mon­tana Fish & Game Department, Helena, seeing to boat registration and safety education as supcr­visor of water and hunter safety. In those travels Bob hopes to help reawaken the Montana Club 
^^ y stirring the far-flung alumni. He and wife ^a t have a son, CIanc>* John. 
A chem engineer with a way with words, AL­FRED J. O'BRIEN. JR., u-as recently elected nce­president of O. S. T>-son and Co., Inc., a Park Avenue industrial advertising agency. He and his wife Joan live at 51-01 39th Avenue, Sunn>'sidc, Queens. He continues as publicity director for the agency. 
MAX L. CLcVRK, formerly super%-ising engineer in the Chicago area engineering department of ^llinois Bell Telephone, has been promoted to 
(^hiining engineer in the same department. 
Congratulations to WILLIAM FRx\NClS GRIF­FIN on his marriage Feb. 22 to Elizabeth Fissell Casscrly in Upper Montclatr, N.J., Bill has been an ofliccr of the N.D. Club of Fairfield County, Conn. 
Much luck to JOHN E. aVSSIDY, JR.. of Peoria. John is the Democratic candidate for state senator from Illinois' I8th district in November. (4/j^ law partner with his dad, Chiss of '17, and 
John Bennett Shaw, '37, (left), Tulsa bibliophile and donor of the Lafcadio Heam and other collections, discusses a gift of "little magazines," a collection of rare literary periodicals, with Library Director Victor Schaefer (right), and Francis Lazenby, graduate research 
librarian. 

a former accountant, he's on several civic boards. 
The saga of DR. TOM DOOLEY hardly needs a recap for readers of the ne%vspapcrs. Back from his Laotian hospitals in the spring for a check­up on his cancer operation, Tom was apparently given a clean bill and immediately launched one of his whirlwind tours on behalf of MEDICO (**the only volHntar\- relief agency with no over­head," since office expenses arc covered by ro>-al­tics from his four books). On campus he received a large student donation and had a scliolarship set up in Iiis name, returning to become the Class' first LL.D at both N.D. and St. Mary's Commencements. A joint resolution was sponsored in the U.S. Congress by Rep. John Bradcmas (D-Ind.) authorizing the presentation of a gold medal by President Eisenhower, who turned out to be quite a Dooley fan at Notre Dame's com­mencement. Establishing a new medical team in Vicl-Xam, he returned to Laos, where the safety of all /Vmericans is now threatened by a military* coup. He could use our prayers. 
Finally, congratulations of the oflice to JOHN DEF.ANT for the first Class of 1948 News Letter, a magazine in its own right. These will be mailed to the Class only when John's correspondents overflow this column. Have you written to him lately? 
1949 ^^^^ Walker 
• '^' 826 Wing St. Elgin, HI. 
REUNION REGISTR-VNTS 

A. FR^VNK Iw\UF.\LVNX. PETER J. KERN.\N .\L LfVSKO, GEORGE MARKHAM. 
From the ^Mumni OtHce: 
Who should appear on the cover of ^Vim magazine, Allstate Insurance house organ, but EDWARD J. MEEH/\N, JR., the South Bend casualty adjuster, as the subject for a cover story depicting Bill's working and home life as typical of Allstate's 508 claims men. Tlic illustrated story has pictures of the Mcchans at home with their three children. 
ERNEST T. ROGERS, regional manager of the St. Louis sales oflice for Outdoor Advertising Inc. since 1957, has just been appointed a vice president of the medium's national sales organi­zation. 
DR. STEPHEN GALL.\ lias been awarded a three-year rcseardi grant from the National Heart Institute. The money will enable Steve to con­tinue his studies on the effects of anesthetic agents on the metabolism of the heart, important to anesthesiologists and cardiologists alike. 
Another Allstatcr, like ED MEEftVN. to make the news was EDWARD C. RE.-\RDON, a three-time alumnus (M.A. '51, LL.B. *55), formerly a unit super\'isor in Gary, Ind., moring to Fort Wayne as manager of the district office. He and Antoinette have eight children, and Ed has toiled 
with the Jaycecs, Little League, and St. Joseph Caltunet Center. PHILIP D. SHEA, JR., formerly an representative for Pittsburgh-Coming 
 teaching at 
 architectural  Corp., has 

joined Philip Carey Mfg. Co. in the same ca­pacity. Phil covers the New York City area, living with his family at 67 Glen Road, ^Vest Nyack. 
ED SHEA isn't the only scholar. With a 
bachelor's, master's and three years in on his 
PH.D., WILLIAM H. SLAVICK is returning to 
complete his doctoral dissertation on the art of 
Southern novelist Faulkner. .A. Southerner himself. 
Bill has been teaching English at Louisiana State 
U. and will be supported by grants from the Southern Fellowships Fund. 
REV. JOSEPH E. HIPP was ordained by Most 
Rev. John Mark Gannon, Archbishop-Bishop of 
Erie, on Ascension Thursday. May 26. and cele­
brated his first Solemn Mass May 29 in his home 
parish, St. Andrew's in Erie. 
A pro ^vith the Boy Scouts is CHARLES W. WHIPPO, former district scout executive for the Grand Valley Council in Grand Rapids, now with the Clinton Valley Council, Pontiac. Mich. A long-time scoutmaster, - Chuck is married to the ­former Cliristena Ness of Mishawaka. They have their own troop ranging from one to nine >xar5. Bill, Ro.xanne, Christopher, Larry, Tim and Charies. 
JOE A. WILLETT is assistant general sales manager for the concrete products dix'ision of American-Marietta Co. in Chicago. Joe has been a district sales manager in Indiana. 
EDWARD R. FLE.MING received his Ph.D. in June from the California Institute of Tech­nology. 'While studying at Caltech, Ed has lived at 4717 Reese Rd., Torrance, Calif. THONL\S S. DeFAIL. an M.S. with the Class froqi Idaho Falls, Ida., picked up a chem engineering degree after night school at Carnegie Tech. 
The Life Insurance Leaders Club of Indiana, a rather select group of insurance men meeting at Turkey Run State Park, had South Bend's FRANK SULL1V/\N as keynote speaker, explain­ing Iiis secrets for writing a million in policies every year. 
1950 ^^^^^ ^- ^^^^ 
47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS xVNTHONY ALEXANDER, NICHOL.AS ANGE­LOTTI, THO.NLAS APPELBAUM, FELIX AQUINO. TERRENCE AR.MSTRONG, ^VILLIAM ARZBAECHER. THO.\L\S AUCHTER, JOHN J. BECKHA.M, GERALD C. BEGLEV. JEROME R. BONA, JA.MES BONESSI. JOHN J. BONESSI, ROBERT J. BRADNER, LEO J. BROWN, JOHN BROWNE. PAUL BUCHVNSKV, JOEL BUL­LARD, JOSEPH BURGIE, DONALD a BU­SECK. PATRICK BUTLER, JAMES CARBERRY, 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1960 • 69­
THOMAS CARTER, JOHN CELUSTA, GUS CIFELLI, RICHARD COLASURD, THOMAS COMES, FRANCIS COXSLER, JAMES CON­WAY, RICHARD CORD.\SCO, FREDERICK J. COLTAL, J.AMES CRE.A.MER, VINCENT CUN­NINGH.AM, ARMAND D'AGOSTINO, GEORGE DcKI.ME, DONALD DEUXY, LESLIE DILL­-M.AN, EDU'ARD DUG.AN, L. E. DUGAN, R.AY­MOXD DUNNE, THOMAS J. EG.AN, JOHN EVANS, JOSEPH FALLON, EDMUND FAR­RELL, JOSEPH L. FARRELL, J.AMES FISHER, EDMOND I. FOLEY, JEROME A. FRAZEL, JERRY FREEM.AN, ARTHUR FRERICKS, FREDERICK W. FRIEND, JAMES FRITSCH, JOHN GALLAGHER, RICHARD GLASS, JOSE GO.VZ/\LES. REV, ROBERT GRrVV, JOHN D. GRIFFIN, JAMES GROVES, LOUIS IL\LEY, EDWARD A. HARRISON, LEON J. HART, JOHN HE,\LY, JAMES HE.\NEY, DONALD M. HELLINGH.AUSE.V, JOSEPH HERRINGTON, JOSEPH E. HICKEY, CHARLES HICK.MANN, RALPH HINGER, WALTER HODAPP, ALAN J.AMIESON, J.VMES J. JE.VNEWEIN, THOMAS 
M. JOHNSON, JAMES T. JOHNSTON, ROBERT 
J. JOYCE, ROBERT E. KANE, EDWARD KE.ARNEY, ROBERT KEARNEY, VERNE KELLEY, ROL.\ND KELLY, WILLIAM KEN­NEDY, JOHN KE.NT, JAMES A. KLVG, THO.M­AS KIRCHNER, RICHARD KIRK, JOHN KRICKL, R;\YMO.VD J. L.\M.MERS, ALLAN L.ANDOLT, LEONARD P. LeCLUYSE, \MLLIAM 
E. LEONARD, RICHARD LEOUS, DOMONICK 

F. LOPANO, ROBERT LUTHER, FR;\NK E. McBRIDE, PHILIP C. Mc&VRTIN, ANDREW McCORNLACK, ^MLLIAM H. McDONALD, THOMAS .McEVILY, JAMES McGL\Ts".\, RAY­MO.VD McGR.\TH, WALTER McGUIRE, THO.M­AS E. .McHALE, JAMES E. .McL^VUGHLLV, COLIN MACK.AY, NEIL MACK.W, RICHARD MAHER, AVILLIAM G. .MAHO.NEY, RONALD MALEC, WILLIAM MEEHAN, HARRY .MONA­HAN, WILLIAM MORIARTi', HUGH MULLI­G.\N, RICHARD .MURPHY, ROBERT NALET­TE, CHARLES NEFF, JAMES NILAND, REV. THOMAS NINNEM.VN, JAMES O'BRIEN, PHILIP O'CO.V.VELL, WILLIAM O'CONNELL, JOHN R. O'CONNOR, THO.MAS O'CON'NOR, JOHN O'REILLY, D.ANIEL J. OSBERGER, PAUL OWENS, CHARLES PERRIN, EUGE.\E PHILLIPS, WILLIAM PIERSON, HAROLD M. PIAMONDO.V, PAUL R,\PACH, KE.N RED­MOND, VAL REISIG, ROBERT RIORDAN, THOMAS S. RIORD.^N, ROBERT ROLFS, DO.VALD J. RO.M.ANO, THONWS J. RONEY, \NTLLIAM ROONEY, RICHARD ROSENGART­E-N, LOUIS RUK.WINA, JOHN RYAN, ROB­ERT S.\NFORD, RONALD J. SANFORD, JO­SEPH SCHEIDLER, ROBERT SCHLOSSER, PAUL SCHWETSCHE.V.AU, WILLIAM SH.ANA­HAN, RUSSELL SK/VLL, JAMES SL.ATTERY, ROBERT J. SLOCU.M, RICHARD SOISSON, DAVID STEEL, JOSEPH STEINOCHER, JAMES SULLIVAN, JAMES R. SWEENEY, WILLIAM TARD.ANI, MELVIN THORNTON, RICHARD TILLM.AN, HARRY TROY, ROBERT R. UHL, JAMES C. WELCH, ROBERT WELCH, JOHN WHALEN, RICHARD •\MLLENBRINK, DONALD WOLFE, DO.VALD J. ZEHNDER. 
From the Alumni Office: All evidence, including the pictures in tliis issue, points to a triumph of planning bv local co-diairmcn BILL MEEHAN and JOE HICKEY with the 10th anniversary meeting of '50. UnaxDidably absent was a very busy engineer by the name of DICK HAHN. Secretary Hahn's inability* to ofhciatc at an election may partially account for the apparent lack of a successor, but many believe that Dick was retained becatise of his talented wife's performance with the col­umn. If the Hahns find it dilHcuIt or impossible to continue, of course, they may appoint a com­mittee to choose nominees and then the Alumni 
Office will mail ballots for new officers. Mean­while, please send news to the above address. HENRY D. B.AELE was elected to the board of directors for Whitcomb & Keller, Inc., South Bend realtors, as secrctar^'-treasurcr. EDWARD 

J. SNYDER has been named assistant to the president of North .American Car Corp., in diarge of advertising and public relations. JOHN 
M. PROOS, nee president of Layne Northern Co., Inc., Indianapolis, has been elected chairman of the board of an associate Hrm, Layne & Bowler, Memphis, Tenn. 
DR. JOSEPH DAILEY is now president of the 

N.D.
 Club of Kankakee Valley, Kankakee, III. JOHN A. CELLA, a Ph.D. of the Class, was given a science award for his research work with 

G.
 D. Searle and Co. at the Chicagoan of the Year Au'ards Dinner, held in June by Chicago 


70 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
Jaycees. ADRIAN P. DEBEVEC is ready for an assignment in South America since his graduation from the .American Institute for Foreign Trade in June. His wife Laura Grace has also picked up Spanish. 
ROGER B. WHITE has been appointed general manager of the recently merged rescarcli and de­velopment facilities of Continental Can subsidiaries. Bond Crown & Cork and the White Cap Co., for which Rog «-as previously general manager of 
R. and D. VERNE F. KELLEY has been elected vice-president of advertising and public relations for the Greyhound Corp. Verne has been ad­vertising manager since 1957. THEODORE T. BUGAS, an LL.B., former F.B.I, agent and brother of Ford's top negotiator, has joined the administrative staff of Columbia River Packers Assn., Astoria, Ore. 
.After five daughters, RONALD J. CAMPBELL (2773 South St. Marks Ave., Bellmore, L.I., N.Y.) has a son bom Feb 7. named ("after feeble protests") Ronald, Jr. THO.MAS RIORD.AN (37 Cambridge Rd., Whitesboro, N.Y.) has been pro­moted to master mechanic by the Utica Division of Bendix Aviation Corp., having joined Bcndix last year as chief industrial engineer. DONALD 
J. O'ROURKE has been appointed district sales 
JOHN M. PROOS, '50 From Well Driller to Wheeler-Dcaler 

.\n employment notice on a Notre Dame bulletin board intrigued an about-to-be­graduated civil engineer. The time was 10 years ago, the new engineer was John M. Proos and the company was Layne-Northern of Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Today John is the newly elected chair­man of the board of Layne & Bowler, Inc., the youngest board chairman in Layne's 78­year history. Vice president of Layne-Northcm Co., Inc., an associate company of Layne & Bowler, he started as a well driller's helper for his first engineering ex­perience 10 years ago, was transferred to Indianapolis sales in six months and began a phenomenal rise with Layne & Bowler, Inc., whose international headquarters is in Memphis, Tenn. The world-wide water developing firm manufactures Layne vertical turbine pumps at the Memphis plant. 
A native of Grand Rapids, Mich., John spent four years as an Air Corps pilot be­fore entering the University. He lives in Indianapolis, married and the father of three children—^John, 16; Patricia, 12: and Julianna, one. He is a member of the Indianapolis -Athletic Club, the Scientech Club and Indianapolis Sailing Club. 
manager for the Aero Hydraulics Division of 
Vickers Inc. in the Los Angeles area. 
FRANK J. HURLEY has been assistant vice 

president of the Indiana National Bank, Indian­
apolis, since July 1. RICHARD I. GAGNON, 
formerly secretary, is now also vice-president of 
the Sollitt Construction Co. in South Bend. And 
FRANK D. WHALEN got his M.S. in psychology 
from Pcnn State in June. 
195 1 Robert J. Klingcnbergcr m ' * ' 2634 Marcy Lane * Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
REU.NION REGISTR,\NTS JAMES W. FRICK, ALL.\.V J. POWERS. 

From the Alumni Office: 
.M. JA.MES TER.\IONDT has been promoted to trust officer by Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company, Chicago. Jim joined Con­tinental after his law degree in '52 and was elected assistant secretary in 1958. He and wife ^far\• Jane and son Michael live at 1002 Nort H West St., Whcaton, III. 
JOHN J. BEEKER and his wife Dona wel­comed the arrival of their fourth child and third daughter, Sharon Thcrese, on April 11, Tlie others are Danny, 3: Mary Clare. 2; and Judith Marie, 1. Jack is alssociated with Becker Equipment and Supply Co., engaged in the sales of light contractors equipment. The family lives at 14!l Clinton, Ehuhurst, III. 
South Bend Tribune political writer J.-\MES CARROLL went to Los .Angeles and Chicago to provide ou-thc-spot coverage of the Democratic and Republican National Conventions. Concen­trating on delegates from Indiana, Jim did hi A usual colorful job. ^ 
JERRY GROO.M has become merchandise di­

rector of Duffy's Delicious Drinks of Denver, a 
Denver soft drink firm. Since leaving the Chicago 
Cardinals Jerry has been striving in sales and 
public relations. The Grootns have two children. 
.Mr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M G. (BILL) KLEE welcomed the birth of Miss ^^ar^• Louise Klcc on May 13. You'll find them and their princess at 112"/3 Western .Ave., Findlay, O. 
One of the Class' Ph.D. winners in plivsical chemistry-, DR. EDWARD F. GURNEE, has been advanced to associate scientist by Dow Chemical Co. He has done 13 papers on polymers and i^h now doing research in solid stale pliysics at the^ Dow lab in Midland. Mich. 
ALU N (BUD) POWERS and wife Lynn had their first tlaughtcr, Christine Mar\', ou July II, and Tracy Aim was born to Mr. and Mrs. GER,\LD A. KERNS on June 23. 
1 952 Hairy h. Buch 
* 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W. Va. 
News has bfcn vt'r>' scarce since my last rcpori^ 

All of you should have received a copy of a class letter covering all individuals who replied to the questionnaire form. If any of you have been tardy in sending in same, fonvard any informa­tion concerning yourselves and it will be printed in the next issue. 
BERNARD J. ENDRES, M.D., 1839 Alcoy Road, Cleveland 12, Ohio; Univ. of Midi. Grad School, biochemi5tr>-, 1953; Georgetown Univ., M.D., 1957; resident physician in opthalmolog)' at Cleveland Clinic; married August 25, 1956; has two sons. 
JOHN A. HALTER, 271 S. Carondclet, Los Angeles 57, Calif.; Univ. of Te.\as, Sept. 1955 t ^ June, 1957, Master in professional accounting^ assistant vice president, special industrial loans dKision; still single. GEORGE H. REVERMAN, 2749 St. Joseph Ave,, Columbus, Ohio; thermal design engineer for Westinghousc Electric Corp.; married June 14, 1952, has one son and two daughters. 
J. A.\THONY MESSLN'A, 1831 E. Pioneer Drive. West Covina, Calif.; certificate in industrial rela­tions, U.C.L.A. Extension, June, 1959; sales-scn-­icc engineer for Harvey Aluminum; married Julv 
3. 1954; has two sons. ROBERT COSSABOO?^ 16 Picturesque Drive, Rochester, New York; de­sign engineer, Eastman Kodak Co. (Design of microRlming equipment for Rccordak Corp., sub­sidiary- of Kodak); married Nov. 29, 1952; has one son and one daughter. 
The ROBERT J. PETERSONS (Bccton, Dick­inson Ind., Cirurgicas, S.A., Brasil) proudly an­nounce the birth of a daughter Suzanne, February 10, I960. Peggy & DICK McNAMARA announi^ 
^i c birth of a son, Sliawn Tiinotliy McXamara, Fcbniar>- 10, 1960. 
CHARLES LINSENMEYER, M.D., Detroit Re­ceiving Hospital, Detroit 26, Michigan; Univ. of Michigan Mrdical School, 1959; resident in sur­gery in above hospital; still single. The HARRY 
Y. BUCHS, 1139 National Road, Wheeling, West Virginia, arc proud to announce the arriv*al of a baby girl, Mar>- Beth, on .May 9, 1960. 
From tlic Ahnnni Office: 
' $ JEROME A. KOLENDA, 553 W. 6ili St., Mish­au-aka, Ind., was appointed attorney for the St. Joseph Legal Aid Society. Jerry got his law degree with the Class after work at King's College. ROBERT R. JAY, 50 Munson Ct., Huntington, N.Y., has been appointed a New York district sales manager for General Electric Company's semiconductor products department. Jav has an if.B.A. from Har\-ard. JA.MES R. KELLY has left as super\isor of industrial relations at the ^fans^eId, O., plant of Westinghouse lo take charge of industrial relations for Westinghouse Appliance Sales out of Columbus, O. Jim is 
^nother law grad. The Kellys have two children, "immy, 8. and Maureen, 2. 
RICHARD B. TAYLOR has been promoted to administrative super\-isor in meclianics research at the Armour Research Foundation of Illinois In­stitute of Technology. Dick, his wife and three children live at 1303 Roberts St., LaPorte, Ind. BRIAN DUFF, formerly with Continental Casual­ty in Chicago, has joined Booz, Allen and Hamil­ton and can be reached at 913 Michigan Av., Evanston, 111. Brian's second child, Brian B. Jr.. was born last November 13 on the birthday of his wife, the fonner Florence Ann Buckley (S.M.C. 
^53) , whom he married after graduation. GEORGE 
^I . CROSSE'lT has been named production engi­neer of Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company's Works Sbc at Ford City, Pa. George lix'es at 350 North Jefferson St.. Kittanning, Pa., with wife Constance and three children. David, 6, Lawrence, 4, and Kathleen, 1. 
THO.MAS E. DIGAN entered Harvard this summer to get an M.S. on a scholarship from IBM after managing many IBM computor engi­neering programs, including the Air Force's famous Russian Translation machine. WILLIAM V. CUD­DY became president of the N.D. Club of New York on U.N.D. Night, April 23. Bill took his 
^i w from Fordham and Georgetown and practices 
"it h Close, Gnffiths, McCarthy & Gaynor. He and Kaiherinc have two children. A. J. CUSICK, JR., has been appointed district manager at Standard Rate and Data's New York office. 
J. ALLAN BLOUNT has been appointed man­ager, business methods and procedures, for ^^on­santo Chemical Company's Inorganic Chemicals Division at St. Louis, after ser\*ing as a pro­grammer analyst in the accounting department there. FR.ANK J. SCHNEIDER, JR., has been promoted to chief planning anal>'st in The Lin­coln National Life Insurance Co., Fort Wayne, 
^Ind. Frank Joined the company in 195+ as an 
^nalyst in the planning department and later be­came senior analyst. ELMER F. L/\YDEN, JR., has been made associate manager of the Chicago branch office for Continental .-Vssurance Co. Elmer has worked industrial sales and insurance both in Chicago and on the Pacific Coast. He and DeLorcs live in Northfield, III., a Chicago sub­urb. They have four cliildren: Kim and Karen, 3i4 year-old twin girls; Elmer III, 2; and Thomas, going on 1. 
JOHN ENGELS U'as named a Bread Loaf Scholar this summer, attending the Bread Loaf Writers' 
^^onfcrence at Middlebur>' Vermont, August 17-31. 
^h e conference is under the direction of John Ciardi, poetr\' editor of the Saturday Review. John attended University College, Dublin, and the Iowa Writers' Workshops. His poems have ap­peared in Poetr>% Antioch Review, Literarv' Re­view, The Commonweal, Grecourt Review, PoeIr\* Northwest and other literary magazines. He's an instructor in English at St. Norbert College, Wis. —fitting, since his dad is Professor NORBERT ENGELS of Notre Dame. 
^^ Other academic notes: at Rutgers, an ^LB.A. 
0t>r ROBERT H. RUBERY, 16 E. Riven.iew Gardens, North Arlington, N.J.; at Southern Illinois University, an N(.S. in education for JOHN DANIEL Z.\NCHA; and at Canisius Col­lege, DR. HERMAN A. SZY.MANSKI, a Class Ph.D., has been promoted from assistant to associate professor of chemistry and remains di­rector of scientific research, having previously worked for DcPaul, Loyola and the A.E.G. 
LESLIE W. DILLiMAN, '50 With Common Carrier, Uncommon Career 
Leslie Dillman has been moving up fast as a trucking executive since he ^vas grad­uated ten years ago in finance. He recendy became director of marketing ser\*ices for Spector Freight System, Inc., at the motor carrier's Chicago headquarters. 
"Leek," as he has been known since high school in Kokomo. Ind., started at N.D. in 1941 and completed one year before enter­ing the Air Force to serve as air operation specialist with two years in the China-Burma-India theater during World War II. He re-entered the University in February, 1948, and married a girl from his home town, Cecelia Hullinger, a few months later. The couple lived at Vetville while Leek finished in 2Mi years, attending school straight through the summers. 
From South Bend Leek soon set his sights on a transportation career. Before joining Spector in the fall of 1957, he was general sales manager for Des Moines Transporta­tion Co. in Des Moines, Iowa. He became active in industr>* affairs, sending on the planning committee for the Customer Re­lations Council of the .American Trucking Associations, Inc., and a special subcom­mittee of the ATA's National Committee on Education. \Vith Spector Leek was named manager at the firm's New Britain (Conn.) terminal. He later moved to Newark, N. J., as terminal manager. With the headquarters staff as director of mar­keting services, he oversees the complete development of sales production, manage­ment and training for use throughout the company. He also is responsible for cus­tomer ser\*ice, public relations and adver­tising programs. 
The Dillmans and their three children— Diane, 11; David, 9; and Debra, 8—have moved to the Chicago suburb of Lyons, III. A member of the K. of C. and Elks, Leek has also joined the Chicago Sales-Market­ing Executives Club and the Holy Name at St. Mary's Church, Riverside, 111. 
Tbomas W. Reedy 

1953 
337 Wagner Rd. Northfield, lU. 

Many thanks to TOM REEDY, who has so 
ably manned the post as class mailman for the 
past seven years. Tom has developed se\'ere 
writer's cramp in his labors and has prevTuIed up­
on me to fill the s^Pi. which I am most happy 
to do. I urgently request the assistance of each 
and every class member to Hood the mails with 
correspondence about themselves and any others 
they know of. At last estimate approximately 800 
members of Class '53 had faded into obli^aon, or 
so the incoming' mail would indicate. Let's hear 
from you. 
Spent the year 1959 liWng in Pittsburgh and 
working for IBM on a U.S. Steel project, re­
turning to Chicago just in time to welcome 
daughter Diane into the world on December 14. 
While in Pittsburgh our next door neighbor was 
GEORGE FARRELL, who is now the proud 
father of George, Jr., and Eileen ^^ary. George 
works for the Mellon Bank and occasionally 
travels to New York on business. On these occa­
sions he gets together with PAT DREW, who is 
a rising young barrister with Tom Dcwe>''s law 
firm. At last word, Pat was single and occup>'ing 
bachelor^s quarters in Greenwich Village. 
A letter from DON* ROSS reports that after 
gaining an M.B.<V. at Marquette and a two year 
tour with Uncle Sam in Germany, he went to 
work for the Xotrc Dame Foundation. After two 
rewarding years of public relations work with 
.Arthur Haley, Don took a big step last November 
and started his own business in Chicago. Don 
has a travel agency, specializing in student groups 
and athletic teams. 
LARRY TARPEY is working on a Ph.D in 
business economics at Cornell, and intends to 
pursue a teaching career thereafter. His growing 
family includes wife Maureen, Larry Jr. and 
Matthew. ROL.\ND GRABELLE writes from the 
Brunswicke — Balke — Collendcr Co. in Chicago 
where he is Product Manager of the Bowling 
Supply Division. His family now counts two boys, 
Jcffcry and Barry. 
We are greatly saddened to hear that JOHN 
GORM.W was involved in a serious automobile 
accident in July of 1959, and has been hospitalized 
ever since. John's brother, Richard J., was lulled 
in the some accident, a head on collision near 
Streator, Illinois. John is married and has two 
children, and his home address is 25 X. Poplar St., 
^(anteno, Illinois. A petition for his speedy re­
covery will certainly be in our prayers. 
TOM ECKLUND is liring in Peoria, Illinois, with his wife and three children, and is a large job salesman for U.S. G\-psum Co. From Cin­cinnati ^v'c hear that BILL ERM^VN ^vas married to the former Rosemary* Fitzburgh of Lancaster, Ohio on January 2, 1960. Bill received a Ph.D in organic chemistry from MIT, and is now working as a research chemist for Procter & Gamble. DICK EARY is a corporate Wage & Salar\' Administrator with the Magnov'ox Com­pany in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
JIM GALLAGHER has just moved his family of three children to a new home in Flossmoor, Illinois. Jim is Secretar\- of the Gallagher Asphalt Corporation, and is busily f>ccupicd trying to give many roads and streets a new black asphalt sur­face. VIC GEORGE is a PK-mouth-Valiant — De-Soto dealer in Flint, Michigan, and includes among his accomplishments the parenthood of three girls and a boy, and the presidcnc>* of the Xotre Dame Club of Flint and the Flint Auto Dealer's .Assn. BILL G.AUDRE.AU received his degree in archi­tecture from Xotre Dame in 1958, and thereupon moved his family of three children from Vetville to Baltimore, where he is working with the family firm. Another Architect member of our class, TOM EMMA, is pusuing his profession in Geneva, Illinois. 
ED GRAHAM is married lo PAT MONTROY'S sister, and the Graham's have three offspring. Ed is working for the III. Bell Telephone Co., and Is living in Dolton, Illinois. Pat is the midwest area sales promotion director for Tyrcx, Inc., and Is kept busy attending every convention and busi­ness show within 1000 miles of Chicago. Pat and wife Pat are proud parents of >Iar>' Beth, Pat, and Jim. 
JIM GIBBONS has returned to Xotre Dame as Assistant Basketball Coach, and I'm sure we will be hearing a lot more of Jim down there. JOHN PORTING Is the Field Training Manager for the Zenith Radio Corp. In Chicago. John ran across HUGH BRAY of '54 in Grand Forks, 
N.D. a short time ago. BERT PROBST 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 2960 71 
has achieved a PhD. from Case Institute of Tcch­noIog>% and is nou- with the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Cleveland. 
BILL FRENCH is now residing in the nation's capital, u'hcrc he and his family of four cluldrcn (1 boy, 3 s'rls) scttlcrd after earning his Law degree from St. Louis U. in June 1959. Bill is a member of the Attorney General's Honor Program in the Department of Justice. JIM FLOOD has also been selected for the Honor Program, after gaining his LL.B. at George Washington Law School. Jim has also proven him­self a prolific parent, hanng 3-2/3 cliildren at last report. Bill also relates that MIKE PLUNK­ETT is now in pri\*ate law practice in Du Quoin, Illinois. 
From the Wtrst Coast we hear via CLfMR TRINKLEY in Inglcwood, California, that REGIS PHILBIN is carving a career for himself in T\ ' and doing a fine Job of it. JACK CAHILL is a Captain in the USMC, stationed in Hawaii. 
DICK TROSSET earned an ^f.B.A. at the U. of Michigan after a tour in the Na\y, and is now operating the Utica Catholic Book Store, which is a wholesale and retail cImrcJi and re­ligious items business. Dick was recently married to the former Roberta Doering of Detroit. He sends along ne%^-s of some '33 classmates, JOHN D\n'ER and JACK GORMAN. John Is working for Parkc-Da\-is in Ne%*-burgh, N.Y., and Jack has his M.D. and is interning in Svracuse, N.Y. Over in Rodicstcr N.Y., BILL DE.MPSEY is working for the Burrough's Corp., and was married last .-Vugust. 
From the North Woods wc hear that LARRY O'MARA has moved to Adrian, Minnesota with his wife Lee and their two children, and he has struck out on his own in the contracting busi­ness. Larr\* earned an M.B.A. at the U. of Chicago before beading North. JIM RON.\N received his 
M.D. from St. Louis U. Medical School, and is now in rcsidcno' at the U. of Minnesota Hospi­tal in Minneapolis. 
Tliat's about it — Let us bear from the rest of you. A letter, postcard, or back of a candy wrapper will be clicerfully received. 
From the Alumni Office: 
TOM SEA.MAN, now li«ng at 1201 Ninth St. N.W., Canton, O., has six children: Mike, 6; Tommy, 5; Kathleen, 4; Tcrrj*. 3; Bobby, 2; and Jimmy, 1. Tom has been made a district agent for the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. JOSEPH L GOEBEL, 2146 Kitlcy Av., Indian­apolis, has become a methods accountant for In­diana Bell Telephone. lie and Marj- Jane have a son. Joseph Michael. 
FRANCIS J. RO.MANCE, now at 3004 Lee High­way. Arlington. Va., has been a full-time Ph.D. candidate on a fellowship at Georgetown since returning from -\frica and the 5er\'ice. Mr. ?nd Mrs. D.WID M. ROGERS, 611 N. County St.. Waukcgan. 111., recently had a daughter, Elaine Teresa. THOMAS A. KRUG is now on the Newark brokerage staff of Connecticut General Life as a brokerage consultant. Tom got his M.S. from Columbia in 1956. He and Frances, living at 25 Slingerland Av.. Pequannock, N.J., have three sons. Thomas, 3, Timothy, 2, and Terence, 1. 
.-\noiher Kennedy in politics! WILLIAM J. KENNEDY lias been running for the Republican nomination for tlic Michigan State Senate from the First Senatorial District in the Micliigan primaries .August 2. Bill b'ves at 428 Lothrop. Grossc Pointc Farms. He and Sarali Ann have four children. Mar\- Michelle, William Joseph, Susan, and Michael. 
Deepest sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. TOM ECK­LAND on the loss of their infant daughter through pneunmnis. 
The Peoria Powers family made a lot of netvs recently. JOHN R. (JACK) POWERS, the golf whiz, won a local tournament at about the same tune that his wife Joanne was slightly injured in an auto crash with several people including JOHN SHERER, '42; Jack's brotlier Denny, '56 is a nexv father just out of the Marines and Ii\ing in Washington. III. 
JOHN R. MacINNES has been transferred by the Boy Scouts. Based in Marquette, Mich., since 1957. John has moved to the Sac-Fox Council, Moline, IIL, as a district executive. JOHN E. TUBERTY is a Latin American expert since grad­uation from the American Institute of Foreign Trade, Phoenix, Ariz., in June. RICHARD R. MURPHY has been president of the First Friday Friars, an organization promoting observance of First Fridays out in Anaheim, Calif. PAUL C. QUINN became a dentist in June, winning his D.D.S. at Georgetown, wliilc ROBERT 
R. C-VSSELLA was named an M.D. at Pitt. A 

NEW YORK—^At the annual Sports Night of the N.Y.C. Club, held in mid-May at the 7th Regiment Armory, a capacity crowd included: (1. to r.) Father Gorman, Club chaplain; Bill Murphy, New York representative, N.D. Foundation; Jim Armstrong, Alumni Assn. secretary; Robert W. Schranmi, Sports Night chairman; Joe Kuharich, head football coach; 
and Bill Cuddy, New 
doctoral clxssmate, DR. DONALD J. ANTHONY, has been named manager of reactor physics on the nuclear destroyer project General Electric is hand­ling for the Na\->*- Responsible for the reactor core's nuclear design, he did similar w*ork on the nuclear submarine. He lives in Troy, N.Y., with his wife Norma and four children. 
IOC ^ George A. Pflaum, Jr. 
•'^^ 1705 Harvard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS ^VNTHO.NY MANDOLINI, RICHARD PILGER. 
From the .Mumni Office: 
VALENTINE CHUN gave a rundown on the year 1959 from 607 Waipa Lane, Honolulu. After getting his ^I.S. in economics at N.D., he traveled for a while, reluming to Hawaii in August. His father became ill, w*as baptized and died (our sxTiipathy, Val) at about the time Val got an offer to teach economics at Chaminade College, Honolulu. He closed urging a return to every­day life of the "aloha" spirit, a closeness of Christian love rather than materialism. Rt\Y­MOND J. SMITH, a post-grad classmate in chem­ical engineering, has been made an associate pro­fessor at the University of Dayton. He's assistant dean of engineering. 
JERRY KEf\TING moved in Januarv- from Dallas to Kansas City, Mo. He lives at 7215 West 89th St.. Overland Park, Kansas, and is now a buyer of candy and foods for Sears. He and Barbara were expecting a playnialc for Pamela Ann. BOB SaVNNELL is head coach of football at John Adams High, South Bend. JA.MES H. M.VYER, 719 Summit Av., Kenilworth, N.J.. got a master's degree in engineering from N.Y.U. through a program of his employer. Bell Telc­plione Laboratories, at the Bell graduate center. He and Corinne have two children, Anne Marie. 
3. and David. 1. Other graduates: ROBERT S. NANOVIC with an M.B.A. from Lehigh; RICH­.ARD P. ANTON with an LL.B. from Pitt. 
WILLIAM A. DWYER, JR., D.D.S., has set up a dentistrv practice at 33 West 42nd Street in New York. WILLIAM FAGAN, JR., has been promoted to parts and office manager of Wm. If. Zicglcr Co.. Inc. Hibbing, Minn., branch. 
Secretar>* GEORGE PFLJXUM will s<H.n Io<ise a questionnaire and newsletter on the Class. Be ready. 
1955 Thomas F. 0*MalIcy •^^ 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Mo. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS DICK ALFES, JOHN AQUILLA, THOMxXS F. ARMSTRONG, RONALD AUER, JA.MES BARRY, ROBERT BAUDENDISTEL, JOSEPH 
E. BAUMIE, RICHARD BEEMAN, ROY BELKNAP, JOHN BE.\DEL, JAMES BERG­QUIST, RICHARD BOLAND, EDW/\RD BORUS, THOMAS BOSSE, ROBERT BREZENSKI, FR^VNK BURGE, DxVNIEL J. BURKE, RICHARD 
W. BURKE, ROBERT D. BURNS, ROBERT CAFFARELL, JAMES CAHILL, THOMAS &\REY, JOHN CASEY, JOSEPH CHALHOUB, PHILIP CHINN, RICHARD CONDIT, JOHN CONNOLLY, RICHARD COOK, JOHN J. COR­

 York Club president. 
BETT, JAMES COURTNEY. CHESTER CRE.\N, MARTIN CULHANE, JAMES CUNNINGILVM, ROBERT DEBREY, CHARLES DEGER, FRED­ERICK T. DEL.VNY, JAMES DELINE, ROBERT DELSEY, CLEMENT J. DEVINE, DONALD R. DIXON. JOSEPH C. DONOV/\N, THOM.VS DORUIN, WILLIAM DWTER, JOHN EVILVRD, SHAUN FALLON, PAUL FA220NE, WILLIAM FEURY, ROBERT FISHER, JACKSON FL\-NN, 
JOHN F. FLYNN, JEROME E. FROEHLICH, P.AUL FULLMER, THOM.AS J. GALLIGAN«-
FRrrZ GANTHER, RICHARD G-VUTHIElfll MARTIN GLEASON, RICHARD GRONER. NE.\L HALLOR/\N, JOHN HAMILTON, L.\W­RENCE HARRISON. HOWARD HART, THOM­AS HAYES. MARK HEALY, WILLIAM HEIN­RICH, JAMES HESBURGH. JOHN HESTER, 

THO.MAS HICKEY, GERARD HILLSM.VN, 
DONALD HINSILVW, JOHN R. HOBLITZEL, 
JOHN HOSINSKI, LEO J. HOWK, JERO.ME 
E. HUGHES, ROBERT HUTCHISON. JAMES 
S. IRWIN, WALTER J. K^WANAUGH, JOSEPH 
F. KE.\RNEY, PAT KE.\RNS, EDWARD F. KELLY, MARTIN KENEHAN, WILLIAM KIL­BURG, CHARLES KLEE, DONALD L/YNSP/W CHRIS L.\RSEN, GEORGE IwXWLER. JOH^-^ LOCHTEFELD, ROBERT Mo\ULIFFE. ROBERT 
J. McCrVRREN. FRANCIS McCARTHY, GREG­ORY McCOR.MACK. RICHARD McCOR.MICK, THOMAS M. McCOY, PATRICK .McGAHAN, ROBERT P. McGR.-\TH, DONALD McKENZIE, WILLIAM .McL^MN, CLIFFORD McNAMAR/\, EDWARD MACHUGA, JOSEPH MADIGAN, THO.MAS MAGILL, RONALD MAKOWSKI, JOHN F. MARCHAL, NE.\L F. .MASON, THOM­AS MAY, D.AVID METZ, GEORGE MEYERS, DR. .\NTHONY Mia\LE , LOUIS MONTEIL. WILLIAM MOONEY. EDWARD MORAN, PAUL 
R. MUELLER. WILLIAM MULLER, ROBERX^ 
E. MURPHY, JOHN MUSOLINO, ROBERT­NAVARRE, TIMOTHY C. .NORTON, REV. JO­SEPH F. O'DONNELL. C.S.C., RICHARD A. O'DONNELL, THOMxVS F. O'MALLEY. HAR­OLD OTT. JOHN PALMISANO, PAUL PFOHL, JOHN PLNTER, JOHN POWERS, THOMAS POWERS, JERO.ME PR.\SSAS, EDWARD PREIN, WILLIAM RE.\LE, STEPHEN R. REBORxV. MAURICE REIDY, WILLIAM REYNOLDS, WILLIAM RICHARDSON, JAMES RILEY, .M.\X ROESLER, RICHARD RUWE, WILLIAM SCHAEFER, HUGH SCHAEFER, EDWARD SCHICKLER. FILVNCIS SCHILLO, JAMES SCHL.\GHECK, STEPHE.N SCHLENGER, ETtk^ W%\RD SCOBY, DANIEL SH.\NNON, GEORGE*' 
H. SHELTON. PHILIP M. SHERIDAN, JOSEPH SHILTS, JOHN SLxVVICK, ROBERT S.\I\TH, OWEN SODETZ, JACK STEPHENS, JAMES B. STEVENS, WILLIAM J. STOUTENBURGH, GEORGE SUNKEL, THOMAS SUTHERLx\ND, PHEL.\N THOMSON, WILLIAM TICE, JAMES 
R. TOOHEY, BERNARD TR.\CY, JOSEPH TURK, JAMES E. VACHRIS, WILLIAM VALUS, GEORGE VOSMIK, JOHN WEITHERS, WIL­LIAM P. WELCH, THO.MAS WELLY, ROBERT-^ WING, JAMES YONKE, LOUIS ZEFR/\N. f j 
Congratulations to FRANK TONINI on his Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship for graduate studv in 1960-61. 
JOHN M. HARIGAN of the law firm of Morgan, Halligan and Lanoff, Chicago, taught a new course, La\v for Women, at the U. of Chicago downtown center in the spring semester. Tlic course was designed to help women understand 

72 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September 1960 
* ;ic problems of law confronting them as wives and mothers. DR. ARNOLD P. STOKES, with RIxVS, basic rcscarcli division of The ^[a^tin Company, got a post-doctoral .fellowship from the National Science Foundation for study at Johns Hopkins. Arnold got his Ph.D. at Notre Dame in 1959. With Gayc and their three sons he lives at 103 Stan-more Road, Baltimore. 
ROBERT N. aVFFARELLI has been named an assistant U.S. Attorncv in Chicago. He lives at fg31 E. 22nd St., Chicago Heights. LOUIS A. ^lENTLIVRE has been named senior copy writer for Bonsib, Inc., a Fort Wayne advertising agency. He lives at 2119 \Vawonaissa Drive, Fort AVaync, Ind., with his wife Gavic and son Christopher. 
DR. JOHN F. HERBER now lives at 610 Forest Ct., Apt. 2, Clayton 5, Mo. He has ob­tained his Ph.D. in organic chemistr>* from the 
U. of Pennsylvania and gone to work as a re­search chemist at Monsanto Chemical Co. WAL­TER (JUDD) K/\SSUBA has moved his real estate firm to new quarters in Mih^'aukee. 
JOHN F. KENNEDY of .Mbuquerque. N.M., 
i^as received his Pii.D, in civil engineering from the 
^^alifomia Institute of Technology. JAMES G. PrraWAG E got his ^LD. from the University of Pittsburgh. DONALD F. WALTER recently be­came assistant trust officer at First Bank, South Bend. 
CHARLES J. (JI.M) GULDE, 2005 Julian Blvd., Amarillo, Tex., is engaged to Dorothy Ernst of the Notre Dame Foundation office. DAVID T. SCHEELE married Miss Frances Buxton July 2 in Washington, D.C. 
TOM O'MALLEY will probably have a lot of reunion aftermath in the next issue. Suflice it to remark here that it was a ver>' pleasant week 
^nd. 
1956 ^°^^ p. Dcasy 
5697 N, Lincoln Ave. Chicago 45, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: It*5 impossible to give adequate expression of sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. GER^XLD MEYER, Rosellc, III., who have lost two children in a year. Mar>* Bemadette, their lO-month-oId daugh­ter, died in June after six weeks of influenza meningitis. Their two-year-old son Timothy John ^frid died about two months before of a head injury suffered in a fall. The Mo'ers have two other cliildren, Christopher, 5, and Theresa. 4. RE^^ DAVID J. M/\X was ordained in May by Bishop Wendclin Nold for the diocese of Gal­veston-Houston, Tex., in Houston. He celebrated his First Solemn Mass the next day in Crcvc Cocur, Mo. PAUL SIKOR/\ has been employed by the Rockwell Mfg. Co. as a production ex­pediter. KENNETH P. WINKLER has joined the engineering department of Monsanto Chemical Compan>-'5 inorganic chemicals plant in St. Louis, Mo., after employment with the Missouri High­wav Department. fl|JOHN D. DONNELLY now lives at 222 North ^i n Antonio, Ontario. Calif. He's with the public relations department of Kaiser Steel along with SAM GER^VRDI, BILL RELPH, etc. They work at the Kaiser plant in Fontana, Calif. JAMES 
E. MACK has been appointed central area cargo \-an sales representative for Clark Equipment's Brown Trailer Division. Jim, living at 1336 Broad­way, Niles, Mich., will work out of Brmvn's Michigan City, Ind., plant. 
JOHN E. REDEFER, JR., is now manager of Sears, Roebuck and Co.^s catalogue sales store in Lewes, Delaware. John and his wife Dolores will locate in the Lewes area. J. J. McCL.\Y, JR., 
Moved from New York to Philadelphia as a sales engineer for the industrial division of U.S. Gj-psum. EDWARD N. KAL/VMAROS has opened a ]a»* office in the Tower Building, South Bend. His wife Marilyn is teaching in the local public schools. 
JAMES H. CONERTY has become a sales man­ager with Indiana Bell Telephone in South Bend. He and wife M3r>*, at 617 Gladstone, have five children, James, Catherine, Margaret, Anne and Mar>*. NICK RiVICH is now sales manager for 
J\'ahcr Kassuba, Inc., real estate in Milwaukee. ^ n May 10 he became the father of Anthony Adam, a 7 lb., 15 oz. future fullback. 
A second son was bom to Ginny and DOUG­L^\S COLE 224-C Eisenhower, Princeton, N.J., on February' 17. Stephen Augustine makes a family of four. Doug volunteers the following info on classmates: "JOHN ME/\GHER is en­joying the first of two years of study at the University of London on a much-coveted Marshall Fellou'ship. His wife Sheila brought forth their first child, a daughter, in England in the fall under convenient socialized medicine auspices. John had finished his three-year doctoral program in English literature at Princeton before going abroad (all but the completion of thesis). RICHARD RUST is thriWng at the Dominican prior\- in Dover, Mass., where he is engaged in philosophical preparation for the priesthood in the Order of Preachers. His name in the Order is Brother John. 
"RICHARD D.WIN, who left the tutelage of sculptor I\-an MestroWc at N.D. two summers ago (as a Master of Fine Arts), has been practicing some ver\* creative sculpture in a studio apart­ment in Greenwich Village. His chief insptrcrs now number three: wife Carol, daughter Jean-Marie, and brand new son Francis Joseph. Dick hopes to be teaching art in the New York City area next year. 
'*And then there's me. I hope by the end of the summer to have completed my doctoral disserta­tion here at Princeton in English literature. In the fall I will begin my teaching career as an in­structor at Yale.'* Thanks, Doug. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. JAMES D. CUSACK of Chicaso on their first wedding anni­vcrsarv, June 27. Jim and Maureen hail from Peoria. Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR J. BALEK an­nounce the birth of a son, Arthur James. Jr., on Januar\- 26 of this year in Chapel Hill, N.C. Art. Sr.. is attending the graduate school of City and Regional Planning at the U. of North Carolina. 
June grads include: PHILIP J. BOHNERT and RICHARD J. LEWIS, an M.D. at Northwestem 
U. Medical School; PAUL C. QUINN, a D.D.S. at Georgetown; ROBERT A. QUINX an M.D. at Ohio State. FR^VNCIS A. DW.AN at Loyola and NHCHAEL F. SAVIANO at Temple U., Philadelphia. 
A grad school member of the Class, REV. ANGELUS A. DcMARCO, O.F.M., of Holy Name College in Washington, D.C, received his S.T.D. at The Catholic University of America in June. His major was moral theoIog>-. 
Two new M.D.'s left JefTcrson Medical College, Philadelphia, in June. DR. a\R L A. MEYER, JR., is now interning at the WilHamsport Hos­pital, Williamsport, Pa., and DR. CONNELL J. TRIMBER is interning at the U.S. Naxy Hos­pital, Pcnsacola, Fla. 
1957 Jack Casey 
• '" " 5918 N. RockweU Chicago, Illinois 
Don Barr 5725 N. East Circle Avenue Chicago 31) Illinois 

Many thanks to those who took the time and effort to write to us. We believe and hope that the length of the column this time will encourage you to continue this response. 
In Chicago, the members of the Class of 1937 have organized a once-a-month luncheon at Bovcri's Restaurant, 20 E. Lake. Tlieae luncheons take place on the first Monday of each month (Chicago area alumni note). JOHN BOVERI, recently dis­charged from the Army, is a part owner of the restaurant. 
At the last meeting the follotring alumni got together: CHUCK GRACE, who is married and working in Chicago for Cummins Enitinc; TOM HUGUELET, presently with IBM; DICK EGAN, who is married and ^vorking for Price Water­house; SKIP JOHNSON, Northwestem Medical School; JOHN FEELEY, Northwestern Graduate School; DAVE MURPHY and JACK AiOYNA-HAN, both with Metropolitan Life Insurance. Jack and his wife are expecting their first child. Dave has two children. FRANK REILLY was also present and is working for T.V. Sales, is married, has one child and is expecting an addi­tion. BILL REGALI joined the group for the first time. Bill is married, has one halfback and another on the wav. He is a sales engineer for the Tranc Co. BUZZ WURZER and FRANK HENNESSEY arc both working for the Chicago Tribune, and attended the last meeting. Buzz is in the research department and Frank sells advertising. Buzz is married and has one child and Frank is still a badielor. JOHN McMEEL stopped in just prerious to going on an extended road trip for his ne^v employer, the Hall News­paper Syndicate. BILL MADDUX has been at­tending regularly and is associated with a law firm in Chicago. Bill and his wife have two children. FRED KROHL made one of the meet­ings earlier this year. A few others have dropped in to join the group and Don and Jack cannot find their list of all those that have attended these meetings. Please forgi\'c us; we will make up for it next time. 
Other news from Chicago: JIM MUNRO Is married and working for G. H. Poulsen Co. JI^^ O'SULLIVAN, married, is a sales engineer for Metal Parts & Equipment Co.; BILL NEW­BOLD is married and working for Central Steel. JOE RINK is married, also the proud father of his second girl recently. Joe works for American Educator. 
TOM JACOBS, who is stationed at Robins Air Force Base with his wife and three children, said he has been visited by the following friends of ours: Ist/Lt. JAMES FLUHR, who was depart­ing for his assignment as an F-86 pilot in France; and Ist/Lt. FRED BELL, who was on his way to Ba\*aria where he will be a stafT officer in an M.P. Company. Jim also heard from DON McCRORY, who is working in Houston for Union Carbide Chemicals and is the . father of three children. 
TOM GUILFOILE is now working in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, for a trade magazine and has two children. He sent in the following ne\>>'s: Rx\Y LESCHER is now at Lc Grand Seminary in Quebec, Canada after attending law school at Lo>*ola for a semester and St. Procopious secu­lar seminary at Lisle, III.; JIM IR\TNG is now working as a chemical engineer uith the Jet Propulsion Laboratories in California after doing graduate work at Northwestern; DICK COLE­Mv\N just got out of the Marines; DON GERTH 
NE\V JERSEY—Some of the principals at the 37th annual Notre Dame Night of the 
N.D. Alumni Assn. of New Jersey were (I. to r.) Rev. Jeremiah Kennedy, O.P,, assistant editor of The Sign magazine, who gave the benediction; Rev. Edward J. Larkin, dean of men at Seton Hall Univ., who gave the invocation; Sam A. Colarusso, chairman; Rev. John H. ^Vilson, acting director of the N.D. Foundation; and William L, Kirchner, Jr., Jersey Club president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1960 73 
is %vorking for Shell in St. Louis; and DEAX ADRIAN is u-orking in California. Oilier mem­bers reccntlv married include ED KWITEK and JOE SANTOS. JOHN BEGGAN, ulm \v-as mar­ried last fall, is at Notre Dame Law* Scliool along uiih JACK D'ARCY. JOHN GLENSKI is working as a chemical engineer for Colgatc-Palmolivc in Kansas City. He and his wife were expecting their second baby in Januar>'. NEIL WALL.\CE just returned to Boston after two years in Europe with the Army, BOB AVOLFE is working with his father in Durand, Wisconsin, and TOM O'BRIEN is in the Norbcrlinc semi­nars- in Green Bay, Wisconsin. MIKE McINTIRE is in Newfoundland with the Air Force. He and his wife announced the arrix-al of No. 2 son in November. NICK GRASBERGER is working at Allis Chalmers in Milwaukee. Nick reported that his old roommate BILL HOLL/VND is married. TO.M HER.MAN is in Milwaukee, married and the father of a baby girl. MIKE AHERN is working in Fond du Lac with his father in the plumbing-contractors* business. 
From Jolict we hear from TO.M NOWAK who is a chemical engineer at Olin Maihieson says his roommate BILL BELL is studying for a Ph.D. is science while doing research on leu­kemia at the National Institutes of Ifealth in Washington, D.C. When he completes this, he will finish medical school al Georgetown. BILL BERG is a Ist Lt. with the Army in Verdun, France, and will complete his tour of duty in June. JOHN MICHNO as last heard was %vith Amoco Chemicals in Chicago. 
CONNER HAUGH who is teaching at the University of Illinois while writing his Ph.D. dissertation came tliru with this news: DON CALAH.AN and GERRY MAHONEY arc also working on their dissertation. JOHN B.AGLEY was here for a year and a half but he got married and went to IBM. He and his wife have a son. Don Calahan is married also. BOB FRUIN is with G.E. in Schenectady. FR/\N LUTZ, another cx-bachclnr. is in dental scliool at Georgetown and DAVE VALrMK is working on his Ph.D, at the University of Rochester. JLM HENEGHAN was married in September and is in grad school at N.D. working at Lobund. AL SCHOENIG is a telephone company installation foreman back in Brooklj-n. DON SCHR.\NDT, another married man, is at Loyola Med School. MIKE GL\'NN and HARRY McKEE arc working for Uncle Sam. Mike, at last word was a nax-al aviator and Harrv- is at Fort Huachuca with Rt\Y ANDRE­J.ASICH. HarT\' is married and has a babv daugh­ter. HECTOR FUSTER and PETE LAGGES are with the phone company in Chicago. DON DELL/\ SANTA is with Philco out near San Francisco. JOE 0*BRIE.\ and PETE AVISTORT arc with IBM in and around New York City. DICK GALLE and J.4Y AUGSDORFER never left New Jersey. Both have married. RON Wil l is out of the Naw and working near Cincy. TOM CHARLTON, married in August, is working on a Ph.D. at Ohio State. MATT SLANA received an M.S. from Wisconsin, got married, and is at Bell Labs. BEN KLEINDORFER turned up near Washington. He's given up the stage and ring to leach D.C. Machinery' and go lo Law School. 
Conner asks, "Do vou knoiv anvihing about MEL BELLO, ED GISTARO, PAT BRADFORD, DAVE JANICIK or JACK 2ELLER?" Can any­body answer his question ? 
GEORGE STRAKE, who has just completed his first year at Har\'ard business school, dropped us this note: BUD M.\LLOY is Tinishing up his second year at the Han.-ard Business School and JOHN CUSACK was up here looking the place oi'cr and plans to come here next year after graduating from the Michigan Law SchooL JOHN BROCKSL/\GER is working for an accounting firm out of Boston. JOE REICH is the Admiral's Aide at the Little Creek, Va.. amphibious train -ing command. DIXIE LEWIS is entertaining the girls of \^rginia Beach and during ofT hours is an instructor at the Little Creek Amphibious base. JOHN GAZIANO is heading up his family's construction firm in Boston. 
PAUL BYRON who is a cost accountant for 
U. S. Steel in Yardley, Pa,, is now married, has one girl and another baby on the u-ay. He mentioned that M.-\X OLINGER is coaching a basketball team in the service. They won 34 straight and were in the BatalHon Championships. RAY BRENNEN is in la**' scliool and is work­ing for the Port Authority in New York, 
From Louisville, we hear from JACK RAQUE who is working for O'Connor & Raque. He and his wife are anxiously awaiting the arrival of their second tax exemption. Jack also had this news: BILL SCHLICH signed his re-up papers 
74 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September^ I960 

Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C., assistant prefect of religion and a World War 11 chaplain, addresses Pennsylvania Catholic War Veterans at Gettysburg, Pa., June II, on the 50lh annivcrsarj' of the monument to Rev* William Corby, C.S.C., chaplain of the Irish Brigade and later president of the University, who gave absolution to the second corps troops before they moved into battle on July 2, 1863. 
for another year. He is stationed in Germany. DAVE BE/\TT\' and ARCH BIAGI, roommates for one year at Notre Dame, became closer when .•\rch married Dave's sister. After this big event, Dave left for the Armed Forces. PAUL HORNUNG in the off season is a public relations executive for a large shopping center. SHERRIL SIPES has moved from Louisxille and is on the West Coast. 
TOM SCHRIBER is on his ihirtl National Science Foundation Prc-Doctoral Grant at the University of Michigan. He is now engaged In experimental work and his dissertation to finish up the requirements for a doctorate in chemical engineering. He sent us this letter: BERNIE 5CHORLE was associated with Monsanto Chemical Co. in Dayton, Ohio, until September of 1959. He then entered the Rackham School of Graduate Studies at the U. of Michigan on a Sinclair Re­fining Company fellowship to begin his work toward a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering. The Scliorlcs arc expecting their first child In April. '57 Notre Damers graduated from U. of M.*s Law School in June are JOHN BURE, and TO.M HILLIG.\N. MIKE FARRUG, who worked a year before en­tering Michigan's Law School, will graduate in Januarv of next year. 
MARTIN .MULLALLY Is a sophomore in Micliigan's Medical SchooL He did a year of graduate work at Michigan State Unwcrsity be­fore coming to the University of Michigan. TOM RUSH, a Medical Scliool junior, has been presi­dent of his class both as a sophomore and as a junior (following the example set by FRANK PED.ACE!) Tom and his wife are the proud parents of a son bom in January* of 1959. JOE SMITH, another married '57 grad. Is also a junior In Michigan's Medical School. 
BRADY P. McKAIG is a junior in medical school at Cornell University. PAUL LEITZINGER is a Naw man who will be discliarged this summer. Paul and his wife had their first child, a daughter, last December. He will enter the Graduate Scliool of Retailing at the U. of Pitts­burgh to surt work on his master's this Fall. PAUL KRAPP, currently on his Third National Science Foundation Pre-Doctoral Grant, is doing graduate work in Chemistry at the U. of Wiscon­sin. Paul will be going to Stanford University this summer and will finish his doctoral studies there because his tliesis chairman has accepted a posi­tion en the Stanford faculty. 
JOHN LUCEY looked forward to his discharge In May. He and his wife expected their second diild In May also. He is now working on his masters at M.I.T. with an AEC Fellowship. With this came the news of DON NLACHENBERG who will be getting out of the Marines around the first of June. Don has spent the last few years at Twenty Nine Palms, surrounded by desert. DON ALENTORS Is there, too. ninning the Officers Club. TOM JEWELL's Christmas card said he was planning an August wedding In Chicago. 
Headlines from around the world: 

BOB MONDRON Is coaching at Si. Anne's High School in West Palm Beach Florida. Last report, still single. BILL GARVIN is in third year of Medical School at Tufts, married, and the proud father of a litlc girl. 
BILL GROGAN enjoyed two years of sunshine and golf while serving Uncle Sam In Jacksonville^ Florida. Bill is now in Milwaukee working for Allis Chalmers. BOB GRIFFIN is working on his master's degree In business at Northwestern U. and buzzing between East St. Louis and the campus in his Volkswagen. 
HARRY BARKLEY and his wife are the proud parents of a boy and girl. Tliev also have a new home in Cleveland. TOM McMURTRV is hold­ing up the N.D. Club of Guam while flying for the Na\y Photo Team. "We may hear about him through one of Khrushchev's news con­ferences any day." K. J. PHELAN was last heard from in Athens, Georgia, as a supply officer. 
TO.M O'BRYAN and the Mrs. now have twgj^ bo>-s and a home in Oak Park, Illinois. JOH^ ­RE/\RDON rc-uppcd in the Xa\y to teach N. 
R.O.T.C. at Wisconsin U. He sa>-s the co-eds arc pretty nice. ED QUINN finished N.D. in januar\' after a hitch in the Na\->- and plans lo wed this summer. 
AL RILEY Is working for On Film, Inc., In New York City. BOB DAVENPORT completed his tour of duty last October and is now em­ployed by Convair Corporation in San Diego, California as an engineer in the ^Vslronautics Division. Bob Is studying for his master's degree at the University of California. 
PAT SWEENEY is a 1st Lt. stationed at Bigt%, Mr Force Base, EI Paso, Texas. Tlie Sweeney's announced the birth of a baby girl last Sep­tember. JOE PRATT, Is now located in New York City ^vhc^e he is Manager of Dayton's Netv York office. 
A letter from JOE RIEGER reports that since graduation he has been employed with Sears, Roebuck and Co. in their Management Training Program. He is the proud father of a little girl and a new baby boy. TOM WELSH Is In Boston working for his father's trucking firm. ^ 
JIM MILOTA Is working In Dayton for LedcR Inc., and his wife tells us he is getting along real well. Tlicy had a baby ^r\ in March. JACK REINHOLD was married lost November and still resides in Cincinnati. JERRY KLEIN Is an auditor for Mlnneapolls-Molinc Company in Min­neapolis. His third child, a boy, was born In January. 
JERRY HAWN was married last August. Lt_ %\LP H LIGTHNER of Catonsvillc, Maryland, is waukee, Wis., won a prize in a recent drafts­engaged and now scning "•«*> the Army in Korea. manship competition sponsored by tbc Wisconsin MATT SL/\Nx\ is the proud father of a boy, chapter oC the American Institute of Architects. bom in March. Matt Is employed as a rcseardi WILLLW^I J. SULLIVAN of Rockford. HI., is engineer and a member of the Technical Staff manning editor of the Wisconsin hayr Revievr 

at Bell Telephone Laboratories, Whippany, N.J. 
NORM HEYING is now working for CoUins Radio Company in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and the Hcying's have two children. Norm has been won­dering what happened to; TOM MAUS, JOE LAUERM.VN, CHUCK GREGORY and PAUL 
r^OHNSON. Some scattered news that has made its way home. TERRY CONWAY is married and working in Cleveland. BOB MILLER is also working in Cleveland. HAL BLr\KESLEE is now living in Madison, Wise, and working for Johnson Motors. JOHN McCABE is married and works for Brach Candies Co. TOM CULLINAN works in Chicago. JIM FINNEGAN works for Bauer and Black and lives in Indianapolis. Ind. Jim is married and has one child. JAKE KIEFER is working in Chicago and lives in Carol Strcem, Illinois. Jake is President of the Home Owners j\ssociation In 
'CjKarol Strcem. DAVE MORRIS is working for " n accounting firm in Boston. GEORGE D'AMORE is also an accountant. 
One of our most intellectual fellow students, PAUL SCHIERL, is reported studving Law at Notre Dame. TOM PALIGANOFF and his wife arc happy to announce the arrival of their first child, a boy. JUDE PETRIE is finishing school at Seattle Universitv, is married and has one child. 
We recently reported JIM F!TZGEIU\LD as graduating from N.D. Law School. Jim writes and would like to know who this fellow is and that he graduated from Detroit Law School in 
^959, passed the Michigan Bar and is now practi'c­
•#ig. He also reports that he and TOM FITZ­SIMONS arc a small minority as bachelors in Detroit. Tom is attending Detroit College of Law at night school. 
Wc hope that the news has been interesting and ask that you Just sit down and drop us a note about you and fellow 57 grads. The success of the column depends on you. 
What ever happened to gu\-s like JACK BEDAN, BOB BUNDSCHUH, GROVER KA.M and ELMER KOHORST? Elmer could get a job with the Cubs if he would Just let us know where he is. 
UELPl HELP! HELP; ^ro m the Alumni Office: 
• JERR Y HORNBACK submitted the following some time ago to fill in for PAT \VILLIAMSON ("who seems to be lost somewhere between Earth and Okinawa*'): "Left Camp Lcjcune. N.C., in December 1959, knowing of 30 Notcr-Doters still struggling in the swamp. ART GUDERDING is there, still a bachelor. Our ranks were deserted on 10 October by JACK COOGAN. Jack and 
^AN DIEGO—Msgr. William Bcrgin (cen­ter) accepts a scroH naming Bishop Charles F. Buddy N.D. Man of the Year at San Diego's Universal Notre Dame Night. Afaking the presentation are Club President Richard N. Martin and Rev. Thomas J. 0*DonneU, C-S.C, alumni liaison officer and principal speaker. 
F PEORIA 
PEORIA—On U.N.D. Night (from left) Peoria Club award chairman Pete Vona­chen presents the Ennio Arboit Afemorial Trophy .to football coach Ken Hinrichs and principal Harold Wcldin of Manual Train­ing High. 
his wife arc living in New River, N.C. GARLAND DEVER turned up at the rifle range at Lejcunc —not too long back from Port Lyautcy . . . also JERRY MxVSSEY ('56), DAN O'BRIEN ('58), and multi others. Worked for six months with JL\t BRENNAN ('58), in whose care I left the list of 30. 
**Oix the wav home in late December, intruded on the TOM SHEHxVNS of 215-A Wakefield, Charlotte, N.C. Tom is while-collaring for Shell for a living and lecturing the local Jaycees in modem art on the side. Wife Patsy and daughter Jennifer were well. Ran aground of JACK MOY-NAHtW and his wifcy, Jcnny-ncc-Thomas, in LaGrangc Park, III. Jack is following in bis father's footfalls as a member of the Metropolitan Life clan. ART (SKIP) JACKSON and I helped Jack and Jenny throw out the old year. Skip is Wearing the white of a medical student at Northwestern. Knows the town like the back of his head. 
"Found JOHN SLE\aN and family settled just south of the campus in South Bend. Come June, John and Mar>* ^vill have moved the family to Southern Illinois, where John Joins a barrister firm. Arriving in Norfolk, I met JOHN SALVATI aboard the USS Valley Forge. John was the only resident Irish until I arrived- He returned to the cold, hard cinlian world on 22 Februar>-. I960. In St. Thomas, V.L, I chased DENNY POWERS up one street and down another for two hours, until I finally succumbed to the tropi­cal rum—ah, heat. Denny is playing wump-wump pilot for the Marines aboard the USS Boxer. 
"Just received a Christmas card (my mail has been a bit late lately) from CYRUS-TYPE FRIEDHEIM at the other end of the Med. He's been in Turkey with the Na^*y, speaking Russian to the Turks. Has anybody beard from BOB HAVERKAMP? I think he's in Ha\%-aii with the Marines. And Skip and I were wondering if any­body has any word on the whereabouts of ERNIE SCHMlDLrVPPE, Would like an address or two." Thanks to vou, 1st Lt. BERT G. HORNBACK, USMC, MD, USS Valley Forge c/o FPO, New York, N.Y.—Avherever 'j'ou are. 
The new address of WILLIAM T. LENNON. JR., is 43 Prcscott St., Framingham, Mass., where he works for Computer Control Co. The Lennons expected a pla\-matc for 114-year-old Mary Jo in August. WILLIAM S. GROG.AN has been as­signed to Allis-Chalmers technical training depart­ment as an assistant supervisor. JAMES RICHARD FEES is assistant attache at the American Embassy, Khartoum, Sudan, for the next two years, hav­ing joined the Foreign Ser\'icc in March. Jim married Mar>- Teresa Greaney of Amesbur>-, Mass., last November. 
ROBERT ERDMAN*N, 134 E. Auer Ave., Mil­while a law student in Madison. MICHAEL J. THOMPSON, 100 Franklin St., Morristown. N.J., was one of those who eameid master's degrees at the N.Y.U.-BclI Laboratories graduate center while working part time on full salary for Bell Telephone. His wife is the former Jeanne Xfc-CuUy of Manitowoc, Wis. 
Featured in the '*Up the Ladder" section of tbc Manager, Aerojet-General's management dub pub­lication, is JAMES P. MADDEN, recently named manager of the reliability division of Aerojct's liquid rocket plant, responsible for propulsion re­liability in the Titan ICBM and other rocket sys­tems. 
Advanced graduates include KENNETH G. Mc-CONNELL with an M.S. from Iowa State and JEROME F. PARMER with an M.S. from West Virginia U. 
1958 ^^^^ ^* Roule, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue LaPorte, Indiana 
Greetings, '58crs, one and all. It is time again to compose our quarterly news column, and while I was musing upon how quickly the time has passed since the last edition, I suddenly realized that two years have passed since our graduation. It hardly seems that we have been turning out this column for two years already, but who arc wc to argue with the calendar. I must say that I have enjoyed receiving and compiling the class news, and I hope that the splendid support which you have been g'^ins me by sending in infor­mation will continue. 
At the time of this writing, your secretary is in the process of preparing for final exams here at the N.D. Law School. If all goes tvell, I will be able, in one more year, to join all of you out in that cold cruel world. In the meantime, I intend to take continued advantage of the op­portunity to see returning classmates on their oc­casional visits to the campus (football weekends, etc). 
There is a considerable amount of mail lying here upon my desk, and I think the best way to handle it this time is just to start at the top of the pile and work down without attempting^ to departmentalize it. 
The first letter I came upon Is from CHARLIE KILB. It was received in March from McGuire Air Force Base, N.J. Charlie finished a twelve month tour of duty at a radar station in Morocco last November. After about three weeks spent touring Europe, he reported to McGulre Air Base 
MIAMI—Notre Dame Man of the Year Charlie Maher (left) being presented the award by Club President Jim Smith on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Florida State Notre Dame Convention, April 30, 1960. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 75 
where lie expects to stay for the remainder of his 
semcc tenn. Other news in Charlie's letter in­
cluded the follouing: TOM S\VL\TOWSKI was 
married on December 26, 1959, to Ann Dolores 
^fochon. in Elmhurst, Illinois. BILL LEMIRE 
and LYNN HANKES are at the Loyola Med 
School in Chicago. FRED BOOTH is in the army-
stationed in the Aurora area. While in the service. 
Charlcv has run into PAT KITTREDGE, JOHX 
HENNEDV, JIM McNAMAR.\, and CHICO 
TORRUELLA, in \-arious parts of the U.S. and 
Europe. And one day while walking down St. 
Gcrmainc de Prcs on the Left Bank in Paris, 
Charlie ran into BILL TWOMEY, who was study­
ing there. Small world, what? 
BOB WOICIK writes from Berwyn Illinois, to 
announce the birth of a son, DaWd Robert, on 
November 15. 1959. Bob and his wife. Alice were 
married (as previously reported) in September of 
*58. DAVE and Barbara LINK were the god­
parents. Mr. Wojcik is employed by Arthur An­
dersen & Co. as an accountant, having received 
his C.P.A. in May of '59. Bob mentioned that 
DAVE PAIRITZ also received his C.P.A. at that 
time, and that RON BABCOCK is another Arthur 
Andersen employee, currently on militar>' leave 
of absence. According to Bob, I^VRRY PASSAREL­
LA is currently studying law at Loyola of Chica­
go, and TONf McDYER is in the Maryknoll 
Seminar^' just outside of Chicago. 
In March. I received a ncwspaoer clipping from 
Boston, reporting that BOB McCARTHY made his 
first solo flight on February 12, at Pcnsacola. Bob 
is a Marine flyer (2nd Lieutenant) in the basic 
flight training program at Pensacola. 
A certain amount of news has been gleaned 
from other classmates still around the campus for 

one reason or another. JERRY S.ALETTA, tvlio 
will have received his M.A. in electrical engineer­
ing in June, reports that BILL LYNCH and wife, 

GeiT>% became parents in December of '59. At last 
report. Bill was stationed at Los Alamos, N.M., 

teaching Nuclear Ph^-sics for the Na\"v. 
PAUL BOYD, who along with JIM BOND, ART 

BROW'N, and JOHN ^iA^"rEY will receive a 
M.A. in June, has won a $1,500 fellowship from the Foundation of Instrumentation, Education and Research to study for his doctor's degree next year at N.D. The fellowship also includes a grant of Sl.OOO to the university. 
JAKE MOREL.\ND (another legal scholar here at Notre Dame) reported on the marriage, in the Log Chapel on February- 6, of CHUCK ROHR. DICK MILLER (of the Sugarfoot Storapcrs—that stellar Dixieland group of our sophomore year) 5er\'ed as best man for the affair. I understand that DICK CO\'NE also attended. 
TOM ERBS personally reported the birth of his firstborn, a son, Scott Thomas, on March 
25. Tom will have received his LL.B. in Jimc along with ED HILGENDORF. JOHN SULLI­VAN, GENE SALEM. LESTER >tURPHY, CHUCK RE\'>r.\NN, HUGH McGUIRE, GOR­DON HO, BOB HOUSE, NICK NEIERS. and JOHN DINARDO. 
Congratulations are also in order, I just learned, for JOHN SULLIVAN and \%-ifc. Mary Anne, who have become parents of a daughter, born May 14 and Avcighing 5 lbs. 4 oz.—name: Sherr>* Lynne. 
^\^IiIc on the general topic of matrimonial and family neu-s, I have also learned from JOHN HIRSCHFELD that he will be wed on August 27 to Miss Rita Porteous of Shreveport, Louisiana. John will then return for his final year of law school. 
JERRY MAURER is another recent bridegroom. He was married on May 7 to Miss Joyce Froming. Jerry is now an Assistant Research Director for the Higfaec Companv, after having received his ^LB.A. from Ohio State. 
Still more nuptials ne^vs: GORDON HO and Miss Pearl Go on June 18, in Kaneohc, Oaliu. Hawaii. 
Last Februar>% DON RONEY dropped into South Bend while on a business trip to the Chicago area. He reported on his considerable progress in the insurance field in Utah and in addition passed on news concerning BILL HICKEY, who is coaching at Notre Dame High Scliool in Price, Utah. From all reports Bill is doin^ a fine job; his teams have won state titles in a couple of different sports, including football. 
Also in the coaching field Is JIM MORRIS, who, according to a letter received from his mother is li\-ing with his wife. Sue, and their daughter in Springfield, Illinois. Jim coaches and teaches at Bishop Griffin Boy's High Scliool. Jim's brother-in-law, AL ECK is working with Kerbcr, Eck, and Braeckd, certified public accountants in their Springfield ofEce. Al and his ^^•ife, Kate, have two children: a daughter, Anne Adcle bom Scp­
76 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
In the 1960 ordination class at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C, were the folloiving priests of Holy Cross: (I. to r.) Rev, Daniel Walsh, Minneapolis; Rev. Joseph F. 0'DonneI| Chicago; Rev. William B. Hund, St. Joseph, Mo.; Rev. George R. Maclnnes, Minneapolis^ Rev. James T. Burtchaell, Portland, Ore.; Rev. Barry J. Hagan, Glcndive, Mont.; Rev. Jerome E. Knoll, Michigan City, Ind.; and Rev. Ralph F. Dunn, Gary, Ind. All are '36 
N.D. grads except Father O'Donnell, '55; Father Hund, '54, M.A. '60; and Father Hagan, University of Portland '53. 
tcmber 19, 1958; and a son, Frederick Albert, 
bom September 17, 1959. 
A letter from JOE SCHAEFER informs us that Joe has been stationed at Maiden Air Base, Mo., in primar>' pilot training before graduation in late June to basic training. His commencement of Air Force training was delayed for about six months by a skiing accident in February* of '59 (a broken leg to be precise). Other news relayed by Joe is as folIo\%-s. BUD AHEARN is stationed at Van­denburg Air Base in California; PAUL LYNCH is flying F-86's at Moody AFB, Georgia; JOE BURNS is with the Marines someivherc in the Pacific; and BUTCH HAYES is teaching high school in New Jersey. In addition to hearing from Joe Schaefer, I also received a letter from his younger brother, Steve, who wrote to let us know how enthused Joe is with his flying. Thanks, Steve. 
FRED HOZL, ace Insurance salesman for the John O. Wilson firm of Chicago, wrote to inform us of the birth of a son on April 2. It - seems that the young Hozl weighed In at 7 lbs., 3 oz., and shows signs of being a real bruiser. Fred reports that he would be glad to write a policy for anvone interested—in any of the 50 states. According to Fred, BILL 0*BRYx\N, PHIL PRASSAS, TIM SULLIVAN, and possibly FRED FOX are soon to be married. JACK McGUIRE recently finished his Na\-y tour, after setting a fund-raising record for the United Fund at San­ford Air Base. Also in Fred's letter was the news that HANK RHEIMBERGER Is in the top ten at the University of Oklahoma Law School, and the the MIKE FEENEYS have become parents of a baby girl, 
JIM BERRY is another recent contributor.' He writes from E\-anston, Illinois where he is enrolled in the Northwestern University graduate school. Jim entered Northwestern In April of 1959, and spent four quarters there. Wille there he worked for the Ex'anston Rc\*ic^c, a weekly newspaper, and in January of this year, while still stud>-ing at Northwestern, he was hired by the Accident and Health Underwriter, a monthly trade magazine. Jim is associate editor of the magazine, and in July he reported to Parris Island for a six month's stint with the U.S. Marines. 
A very lengthy letter arrived from JACK REVORD and since it contained a veritable mass of information concerning a great number of people I will attempt to set forth the items as they appeared in the letter. DON HOODECHECK was married last August to Jean Chastang from St. Marv's. In the wedding party were: JOHN MACDONOUGH, DICK FAGIN (who Inddcntally is now in the semlnar>-) and Mr. Rcvord. The Hoodechcck's arc now expecting, or were at the time of the letter, their first child, and Don was about to receive a degree from Mankato State Teacher*s College, in Minnesota, after whldi he intended to work for a Master's degree in English at Ohio State. JOHN MACDONOUGH Is working with Encyclopedia Britannica Films in Wilmcttc, Illinois and is very happy with the arrangement, and w^th his nearly t\%'o-year-old daughter. HARRY W^VSOFF now has his own insurance agcnc>* and is attending SMU at night (law school, I presume). VIC CLESI Is managing the Clesi restaurants In Dallas. JACK LIESKE was married in the summer of '58 and is now stationed in Norfolk, Va. BOB CAIOLA and his wife, Stephanie, arc In South Bend while Bob Is work­ing on a fellowship and teaching chemistr>- at 
N.D. STEVE POA\*ERS and JOHN DEE arc both members of the teaching profession. Steve is teaching math and coaching basketball in Peoria, and John Is teaching in grade school in the Elkhart area. MARTY LETSHCER is married and the father of one son. He is stationed at Glenview Naval Air Station, Illinois. Finally, Jack (Revord) included some news about himself. He was married (as I think I prcWously reported) last Novem­ber to Skip O'Donnell (S.M.C '59) in Cleve­land Heights, Ohio. Among the guests weritf JOE ROMEO (in mcd school at Johns HopkinsT JOHN MACDONOUGH, and JACK LIESKE (best man). The Rcvords arc now living in E\'anston, Illinois. Jack is employed with the Pillsbury Company, in the institutional products division. His field is selling, and his territory Is the north side of Chicago, Milwaukee, Madison, and Green Bay, \Visconsin. Now, how is that for a newsy letter? Tlianks, Jack. 
I-ast February, I received a note from CHRIS BROTHERS with a word on his acti\'ities. After graduation, Chris ser\'cd six months with the Army in Georgia. In August of 1959, he was married (his wife's name is Patty) and tWV Brolherscs now make their home In OaklanoP California, where Chris Is a salesman for the Maxwell House Coffee di\'ision of General Foods, Inc. 
Here is a word or two from JIM BARR: BILL BUSCEMI was married to Miss Colecn Mullins and is with the Army M.P.'s at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. JIM MURRAY was married to Miss Sandra Moseman and is now working with his father's accounting firm in Columbus. Ohio. BOB SCHWENKER is 5cr\-ing a hitch with the Army in Germany. As for Mr. Barr himself, here is the latest. He is with Army Intelligence In Wash^^ ington. In his spare time he Is doing gradua^l work at George Washington University. Jim has heard from the following: DICK WILLSON (married and expecting second child in Rock­ford, Illinois), JIM GAULRAPP (married and working with brokerage firm In Rockford, Illinois), and TOM WALSH (who w'nh. wife, Bambi, is a proud parent pursuing chemistry- studies in California). 
MARTY ALLEN wrote from Jacksonnlle tell­ing about his cruises with the U.S. Na\T. Marty, an officer on the USS Krishna, Is based In LIttW-. Creek, Va. There in the Ofliccr's Club he e* counters such old salts as JACK ADAMS, ED CONROY, DAVE COUT)RILL. JIM DAILEY, BERNIE GESSNER, GERRY GOETEMANN, JACQUE HUBER, PAT KITTEREDGE, JACK LIESKE, LOU MORGAN, TOM MURPHY, and LARRY PELTON. All arc stationed in and around Norfolk. Marty's ex-roommates are both in civilian life at present. PAUL UNDERKOFFLER is 
t 

the University of Virginia Law School, and JOE BRIDE is a sportswriter with the Lotnsvillc Times. 
JOE HALISKY writes that he has finally settled in Calirornia for a while and is working as a Manufacturing Research Engineer at Lockheed. He expects to hear from Uncle Sam soon, however. Included in Joe's letter was news to the effect that B. J. WILHELMS is in his second year of law school at the U. of Detroit, and that BERT DENOURIE is still in the Air Force. Joe also 
^y s that BUTCH HALEY was spending his ^rm y lour in Hawaii—tough luck. 
Back in February-, I heard from JOE FORE­MAN, who is now in law school at the University of Toronto. The news which he had to offer was that ED MEELL would marr\- Miss Carol Dulach on July 9, I960; that H/\NK Z.\NG is still workinif (?) in radio in Kcwanee, Illinois; and that TOM G02DECKI Is married and work­ing as an accountant in Highland, Indiana (a fact which I think has been previously reported). 
Also, in Fcbruar>*, I received an announcement 
of the wedding of JIM TRINO and Miss Carolyn <^ce Briggs which took place on the 13th of Webruary, in St. Michael's Catholic Church, Pcn­
sacola, Fla. An accompanying letter from Jim's mother explained that Jim was assigned to the USS Estcs after graduation and made a cruise of the Far East—Japan, Hong Kong, Manilla, and Korea. In May of '59, he was accepted for flight training and reported to Pensacola. Included in the wedding party were DON KE^VTING, and BILL CAHILL. Mrs. Trino also reported that LOU SOLOMON is engaged to Miss Linda Carlisle of Bakcrsfteld, Calif. Lou is with the Mullhofer Wholesale Drug Company and plans to marr>' this summer. 
^^Morc family news: 1st Lt. and Mrs. JOSEPH 'AEIMOSKI welcomed a 6 lb. 8 oz. baby boy on February 6. Gerald Joseph was born at the 
U.S. Nax-al Hospital, Camp Lejeune, North Caro­lina, where proud father Joe Is stationed. We have Joe's mother to thank for the foregoing infor­mation. 
A short note from JACK HOUGH Informs us that he and REMY FR.\NSEN, PAT HEFFER­N/\N, and TED COLLINS arc now at Harvard Law School. CHUCK FISS was married last summer to Miss Sue Morneau, and is currently working for the government in Washington. PHIL VOGEL'S wife, Pat, wrote to tell us of 
j'^^e doings of the growing Vogel family. After graduation, the Vogels moved to Milwaukee with their daughter, Margaret Mar>' Peggy, who was at the time of the letter seventeen months old. Subsequently they welcomed another daughter, Eileen Mary. Phil recently underwent surgery on his foot, we hope ever>'tliing turned out success­fully. 
«
Another legal beagle heard from: DREW AMAN writes from Georgetown Law School where he Is in such company as JERRY BURKE, DICK PHALEN, CHARLIE SHANE, JOHN RONx\N. ANDY SULLIVAN, .\HKE HERB and JOHN BURNS. Drew is in his second year of law hool (it occurrs to me that our class Is going flood the legal field judging from all the current law scholars being reported) where he rooms with .Messrs. Burke and FRED GENOVESE (working for the Department of Commerce). Jerr>' Burke has been re<elcctcd treasurer of the Student Bar Association at Georgetown and DICK PHAL­EN was a flnalist in the Legal Argument pro­gram. Other news from Mr. Ainan: MIKE SHAN­NON Is at Stanford working on an M.B..A.; AL FLORIN is getting married; TOM EISENHAUER is working with his Dad—Universal Tool Co., Dayton; DOC SCHNEBLE is with Harris Scy­bold; and MIKE &\RR is with General .Motors fl|cceptance Corp. 
^JI M DAILEY Is currently stationed in Dhahran, Arabia, and he writes to tell us that in spite of the interesting places he has been able to see In that part of the world (e.g. Beirut in Lebanon, the Holy Land, Damascus, New Delhi, Bangkok, and Asmara, Eritrea) he is anxious to return to the U.S. and civilian life. Before returning to the U.S. however, Jim planned to spend three months touring Europe. Tlien at the end of the summer, he will enter law school at the Uni­versity of Iowa. Also in the Middle East arc ED 
IpTUBENRAUCH and his family, who live on the island of Bahrein in the Persian Gulf. Since, Jim was only ten minutes flying time from Balircin, he got together with the Stubcnrauchs often. Ed, by the u-ay, will soon return to the U.S. also, and he hopes to attend grad school at Har^-ard. 
Wc are now approaching the bottom of this monumental pile of letters on my desk; just about live of them left. The first is from BILL CHESSON 
(J^ho is currently a staff announcer for radio station 
On behalf of the New York Club, (I. to r.) Harold >farshall, '30, president of the National Bank of Westchester, presents a check to Rev. Vincent J. McCauley, C^.C, *30, to purchase vestments for his fellow missionaries in Uganda, British East Africa; looking on arc Father Vince's namesakes, law associates Lynn Vincent Marshall, '50, and Club President William Vincent Cuddy, '53, 
WSTV in SteubenvIIle, Ohio. BUI was recently with WNDU here in South Bend, but during the post year has moved to the Steubenxille area (Wellsville, West Virginia to be more exact) from whence comes his wife, the former Susanne Hegncr, a graduate of Catholic University. After graduation Bill spent six montlis with the Army at Fort Jackson, South Carolina and Fort Leonard Wood,' Missouri. He Bnishcd his Army duty In April of '59 and was married in June of that year. 
Another ver\' interesting letter Is that of JIM 
' SCHERER, who is completing his second year at Mt. St. Mary's Seminary in Norwood, Ohio. Jim is studying to be a diocesan priest in the Gar>* (Indiana) Diocese (which by the way is your secretar>''s home diocese). Jim is very happy with seminary life and would appreciate your prayers that he and the many other fellows from our class who have entered the seminar^' life may persevere and sec It through to their ordination day. According to Jim, there are almost enough 
N.D. graduates at Mt. St. Mar>''s to form a club. JIM SIMON, another of our classmates, is one of them. Although not being able to keep up many contacts while in the seminary, Jim Scherer was able to report that HUGH HICKEY Is now in the ser\*ice—the Counter Intelligence Corps. NHKE GLEx\SON is on a crube of the Middle East—^Jim last heard from him from Portugal. JOE BRENNi\N, who was with us for two and a half years at N.D., Is now in the Jesuit semi­nary at Milford, Ohio, finishing his third year. He and Jim have been able to see each other occasionally and thence comes the news. 
TONY FILOSA was the author of a letter re­ceived In Februarv' from Melrose Park, Illinois. Tony has been with Peat, Mar%\'ich, Mitchell & Co., in their Chicago office since Tony's grad­uation in February of 1958. The FUosos now have three children: Mar>- Edith-born Jan. 5 of this year, Mark Anthony—2'/2 years, and John Chris­topher—15 montlis. Tony also had news of LOU KONOWAL, currently serving with the Army in Germany, and JERRY WHITE, coaching and teaching; in Mt. Clemens, Michigan. GARY COOPER, reports Tony, is with the ^tarine Corps in Hawaii. 
And finally, I come to letters from a couple of my old roommates. First there arc four pages in the unmistakable script of Pvt. JOHN RU5SO (since retired from active combat). John wrote from Fort Bliss, Texas, where he was heing trained with the New York National Guard. John was to be discharged in April, at which time he was to be fully prepared to fire a Nike-Ajxx missile at any would-be agressor. Actually, I gathered from his letter that John was really only down in Texas for a suntan and a tourist's view of Juarez, Mexico. But I am sure he is ready to defend the cast coast. Before Fort Bliss, John was with U.S. Rubber sales division. John reported that BILL McKEEVER is engaged to Miss Joyce Simmons of Philadelphia and plans to marr>' in September. 
The other roommate, who writes more neatly but less often, is JOHN SENG. John too Is in the Army and relishing the thought of getting out. He will be released in the early fall and is planning to take up grad school. John has encountered some fellott* '58ers while at Fort Hood, Texas. Among them arc DAVE LOEB and B.ART Mc-KEE. He also knew that GERRY McOVBE had left for Germany last fall but as of yet no word has been forthcoming from him. 
Well, that takes care of another session at the t>-pe%%riter for the good old ALUMNUS.' I hope that the news presented will entertain you and evoke some happy memories of classmates who may have slipped from your minds during the past months. My thanks to all the contributors; your efforts are greatly appreciated. I regret that I cannot send personal acknowledgements and thanks to all those who have sent items to me, but I find myself unable to imdertake such a task. I hope that you will all continue your fine cooperation. And I would abo be very appre­ciative of some letters or cards from those of you who have so far remained silent since graduation. Enough said. 
P.S. Plan now. If at aU possible to attend a game or two next fall, so that we can all get together. From the Alumni Office: 
A picture from Redstone Arsenal, Ala., showed 
John Kim (center), a sophomore from Korea who left the University for a year or two in Laos with Dr. Tom Doolcy, '48, receives a camera from Al Lesme^ '45, and a handshake from Jim MacDcvitt, '35. Lesmcz is chairman of a group of New York alumni sponsoring John at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj September, I960 77 
Pfc ROBERT E. HOULIHAN pounding a t>pe­u-ritcr in the Public Information Office at the U^ . .Army Ordnance Guided Misstlc Scliool. JIM MRUS is also a reporter, contributing to G^'psum Xcu'S, house or^an of U.S. G\"psuni. as employ­ment supervisor at the ^Va^ren. O., plant. C/\RL 
S. LEXZO is now an engineer in materials de­velopment at the Knolls Atomic Power Lab of General Electric, designing reactors for atomic ships. Carl's wife and son are with Iiim at 2 Grounds Road, Albany, N.Y. 
DA\1D J. McMAHON married Colleen Anne Phelan (Barat College '33) on Jan. 2 in Beau­mont, Tex. They live al 70 Lincoln Av., Apt. C-23, Rockville Center, L.L, X.Y., and Dave has been employed by General Mills since his discharge last October.' Lt. MARK J. WESTER­VELT lias been supplementing his medical studies at the U. of California by spending his summer as a clinical clerk at Fitzsimons General Hos­pital, Denver, Colo., as an exercise for the Ari­zona National Guard. JOHN T. CAREY, JR., who took an M.A. with the Class, is the new x-arsity swimming coach at Manhattan College, N.Y.C.. where he teaches phy. ed. and coaches freshman baseball. John lives in Yonkcrs. 
Tlie Class has ad\i'anccd graduates from Wash­ington U., St. Louis, Mo., and the California Institute of Tcclinologx*, Pasadena. Calif. Tlie Caltcch grads, each witli an M.S. in aeronautics, arc MATTHEW M. GROGAN of Norlhport. N.Y., and WILLIAM L. ANDERSON, JR., Houston, Tex. THO.\L\S F, MOONEY of Clayton, Mo., got an M.B.A. from Wailiington University. 
1958 Law Class 
John F. Ttfarclial 
Marchal & Marchal 
HO \V. Fourth St. 
Greenville, Ohio 
Well. Gentlemen: Had word from ED BARTOLI. He's practicing in Peru, Illinois and sa\-s that he is getting along ver>- well. JACK CALLAHAN (better known as Sally) is still at Scott AFB, Illinois, in the JAG Office. He and the real Sally went to Europe recently, and Sally indicated that she didn't have any trouble with Jack until they arrived in Paris. They have an addition in Ed­*vard Paul, and I want to extend my congratu­lations. 
JERRY CURRAN is in the legal oITcc at Ft. Carson, Colorado, and wrote recently that he is preparing to take the Colorado Bar. If he passes, he plans to stay in the West. Of course, I am sure that the girl he mentioned has nothing to do with his staying. Good luck. Dead Man. 
An epistle from curly ED DENN said that he was moving back to Washington with Murray, and going to work for the FAA. He also com­mented that BILL QUIRK and JACK ECONO­MOU had passed the New York Bar recently. 
FROGGY DREXLER is now with the firm of Ste\-cnson. Conaghan, Hackbert, Rooks and Pitts in Chicago, after returning from a de­lightful six months in the Air Force. He wrote that he had seen TOM DARRAGH on St. Pat's Day, but didn't say where. Noting the firm Drex is with, I wonder whether he has cliangcd his political beliefs? 
ED GRAY and Mar\- Jane ha\-c a new addi­tion, and he indicated that he was quite bus>'. I also found out from him that JOHN RIGBY is now practicing In Niles, and living there. 
JOHN MURR.\Y is still with the IRS, and the last I heard from him he had just fallen off a bar stool in Statcsvillc. N.C. Griffin is with a small firm in Aurora Illinois and lives at 734 Gladstone No. A. He is the proud father of Mtdiael Graham, and our best wishes go to tliem and the Grays. 
TOM McKlNLEY, still In insurance in Kala­mazoo, is having eye trouble, and undei-vv-ent surger>' in May, Tom we hope you arc well rc­iMvcrcd by this time. Our tvorld traveler, SPONGY McNEILL, is preparing to take a group to Eastern Europe and Russia this summer. I had to refuse his offer to go along, but he did mention a couple of cute coeds, I just hope they don't mis­take your Red hair Tom. 
I have it from good authority that RUFE SNELL is getting married on June 6th to his friend from St. Mary's. 
ACE TAM is still dispensing justice in the JAG office at Ed%%-ards AFB, Cal. He has been 

78 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, I960 
playing some handball, and regreting it the next day, and asked for some tvord from Rupe and EngcL 
CHARLIE WINANS has moved to Garrett, Indiana, and is practicing there. He is the cliief Assistant Prosecuting Attorney for DeKalb County, and is getting a lot of trial work. His addition's name is Chipper. 
FRANK VARGAS is happily married stating that he is now staying home reading and listening to music It's hard to believe. His practice is proceeding well, and he was to have met me this week end here at the Law School for the Old Timers Game. He didn't make it. 
Your old Rep is quite happy with his judge­ship, and spending a lot of time on other activities. 1 scouted the football prospects for next year yesterday in the wonderful sunlight of South Bend. The bo>*s looked good, and should present some interesting games next fall. Maybe wc can get together for one of the games. Let me know what you think, and those of you who haven't written lately sit right down and write me a letter. I'd like to know whether you are dead or not. 
1959 Dennis M. Ncad 
• ''" 6121 RobisonRd. Cincinnati, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS GERALD E. PARKER, ANDREW W. SULLIVAN. 
Many thanks for all the letters that came in since the last issue of the ALUMNUS. 1 would like to hear from more of you however and let me know what all your friends aie doing. I trust that cver>one had a Happy Easter and are now back at the regular pace. I don't know what your thoughts were on Slarch I7th but all that I could \-isualizc was mass mob scenes at Sweeneys celebrating the great day of the Irish. I wonder how many depressed freshmen had the cliance for an inter\'iew with the Bluecoats and the opportunity to lake that long walk to the second floor under the Dome. I'm sure that all is well on the campus now, though. It's hard to believe that we arc a year old; June '64- is not too far away. Here's the news since the last issue: 
HUGH MURPHY, our senior ball chairman, reported that the affairs from the dance have finally been settled. The money made from the dance will be used for a Class Mass Fund pro­viding each member of the class of *59 wants a Mass to be said after his death. Hugh has com­pleted his six month tour of duty and is at present working for the Equitable Life Assurance Society as a salesman. GEORGE ROSS and VAL MILLER recently got engaged to Marie Campbell and Dee Dainko who both graduated from Barat College this June. 
CHRIS FAGAN is with the Office of Naral Intelligence in Washington. ENS. JOHN MA­LONEY is also in D.C. with the Nax-al Reactors Branch of the Bureau of Ships (Admiral Rick­o\-cr's shop). ENS. PETE SALSICH spends his time with the Office of the CNO in the Penta­gon. TERRY PLUNKETT is doing graduate work 
DENVER—At the Dcnvcr-Hiiton for the annual Notre Danie Dinner in April, 
(I. to r.) outgoing President Leon Archer (foreground) listens as Terry Pike receives the Club's scholarship a^vard from selection chairman Jim Shcchan and campus ambas-^ 
sador Father Thomas O'DonncII. w^ 
at N.D. in English and will have his master's in August. Lt. JOE SCHxVEFER, USAF, is sta­
tinned In Madison Wisconsin. ENS. SlARVIN DIETSCH is aboard the USS William R. Rush presently in the Med. ENS'S DAVE BARRETT and TOM BRADY are aboard the U.S.S. Fremont. CUVRENCE HUTCHES, now living in Wash­ington, Georgia, is employed with the Pet Dair^v Products Corporation. LT. MARK KLESSENICl^ recently graduated 10th in his class at Quantico and received orders to UKtnawa for a long tour. Mark's father retired as a Lt. Colonel in the Marines, but I doubt whether his son will stay in any longer than three years due to previous commitments before he left Long Island N.Y. TOM MILLER has recently finished OCS and is stationed on the USS Walke out of San Fran-
JOHN MANEY completed six months with the Finance Corps, Fort Benjamin Harrison, and is now employed in the Chicago oflice of Haskini^ and Sells. ROGER LAUR and GEORGE WElf ) were assigned to engineering and communications aboard the USS Toledo and have recently re­turned from four months in the West Pacific. 

MANSFIELD—^At the head table in the background at the first Universal Notre Dame Night of the Notre Dame Club of Mansfield, Ohio, arc (from left) Rev. John Schreiner, Rev. Frederick Garand; the speaker Rev. James Doll, C.S.C.; Mrs. John O^Donnell, and 
Club President 0*Donnell. ^^ 
Both will be reassigned to new ships in the near future. LARRY McGOVERX seems to be rather happy wU!i shore duty in California. He recently visited his ex-roomate RANDY McELHONE. who IS presently attending lau- school at Cal. MIKE CROSS apparently likes mcd school at St. Louis 
U. and has found out that there is a little more opportunity for social life than there u-as at N.D. TOXf TRINLEY, also nmning around Long Beacli, left for the WestPac in February- while his wifi; Maureen expected to have an addition to tlie 
^mil y in early April. TOM HOBERG is enjoying Snvy lile on the USS John R. Craig. JOHN LEAHY has returned from t!ic Philippines on liic USS CoIIett. TOM HALIEREX has been a mem­her of the officer staff off the USS John R. Craig and will soon join a fleet maneuver into the West and Southwest Pacific. LOU KIGIN left Easter Sunday to sec the Army life at Fort DL\, New Jersey. From there he will receive his permanent cliangc of station to Fort Eustis. 
BOB LUTHER is now a junior engineer with the Chevrolet people In Warren, ^fich. Bob be-
QLmc a father on ^fa^ch 14, as his wife Mar>­/\nn brought Sasan ^tarie Luther into the world. KEVIN SMITH is now working for the tVmcrtcan Association of Advertising Agencies. He and BILL SHE/V have become active in the alumni func­tions at New Rochelle, N.Y. Bill is presently a sales representative for the Flooring Magazine, a trade publtcatton. BILL Ki\NE was married on February 14th to Diana Sutton of Buffalo and is employed with the Marine Trust Co.'s Man­agement Training Group. GERRY WEBSTER has returned to the John Pennington Insurance Agenc\­after attending the Wharton School of Finance for a semester. A bright future Is ahead for the 
,^l f captain of '59. WA\'NE FAIST and lus wife 
"Wcnee are presently residing in Oak Park Illinois where he is employed by the Flexonics Corpora­tion as an assistant to the export manager. Con­gratulations to PAUL NIKLf\S, who recently be­came a father to a baby girl. All-campus JOHN FREY, after another successful season in basket­ball at BIythcvillc Arkansas, an Air Force Base, is presently charged to quarters with a collapsed lung but sliould be ready for duty in the near fu­ture. He and his wife Barbara expect their first young pup in October. ROBERT WETOSKA finish­ed basic training at Ft. Leonard Wood and re­mained there for eight weeks of clcrk-t>'pist school. jUob then transferred to 5th Army Headquarters Wn Chicago where he wound up his six month tour to be able to report to the Chicago Bears training camp around July 22nd. Bob has seen other members of the Class at Leonard Wood, DICK SHULSEN. BRONKO NAGURSKI, ROB­ERT MARSO, STEVE BOLANDER, JOHN DON­OVAN and TIM Hx\GAN. 
AL ECU^'ER, presently employed by the Ed­monton Eskimos Football team in Canada, had a six month tour of duty in the Infantr>* at Fort Bcnning, Georgia. JOHN P. EDWARDS an Eng­lish major from St. Louis is now studying graduate 
Jnisiness at ^\'ashington University. JAMES DON­
^V^VN is studying metallurg>- at Notre Dame. RON DELAMIELLEURE is continuing his work in art at Wayne State University. 
ROBERT FUNDERLIC was married to Miss Gail DeVriendo on November 28, '59, and now works with the Union Corbide Nuclear Co. in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. HARRY KOENIG a So­ciology major from Cliicago is now studying Cor­rection Administration at the University of Chica­go or Loyola. This boy figures to be one of Chica­go's greatest disc jockeys. JOHN McI^VUGHLIN works now as a securities order clerk and trader 
^ r the McLaughlin, Kaufman Co, on Wall Street VRid is going to law school at nights at New York University. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to Ens. DAVID W. JAMES, JR., on his marriage this summer to Senorlta Lucia Maria Gonzales Anguiana of Mexico City. His latest address is USS Morton, DD 948, c/o FPO San Francisco. JOSEPH E. HIGGINS recently joined the staff of the Tonawanda (N.Y.) Lab­
.ft|^tories of the Luide Co. division of Union Carbide. MICHAEL A. O'CONNOR has joined the home office staff of Massachusetts Mutual Life, Springfield, Mass. 
A special bow to KLAUS MULLER-BERGH of Potsdam, N.Y. who has received a Fulbright grant to study cultural histor>- at the Catholic 
-University of Rio de Janeiro, Brasil, S.A. 
T\VIN CITIES—^Ncwly elected officers servii^ Minncapolis-St. Paul alumm arc (from left) Joseph T. O'Neill, president; Edward S. Hagcrty, vice-president; Edward J. Gordon, secretary; and Peter J. Cannon, treasurer. 
1960 J°**" ^-^*^^^^ 
I you ^j-j^ ^^^^^ ^yg 
Wilmettc, III. 

The publication of the Alumni Directory in May provided each member of the Senior Class with a listing of cvcr>- graduating senior, his address, and a statement of his future plans. This pub­lication—the first of its kind to be published by a senior class of Notre Dame—was the ful­fillment and realization of one of the campaign promises of our Class President DICK CORBETT. 
Groundwork for the publication was begun last .Marcli by Editor PAUL LO.MBARDI. Class Treasurer. His original Intent was to publish a mimeographed handout, but as more data was accumulated and more ideas formulated, the editor and his staff were able to incorporate art work, schedules of future football games, reunion plans, and a Class Memorial. 
Helping to make the Directory-a reality were the Alumni Office and Alumni Secretary Mr. James Armstrong. Due credit and special thanks should be extended to his office and the many liard-working secretaries who shared a sizeable amount of the work. The publication of this brochure has been such a success that an esti­mated 500 copies of them will be sent to the various presidents of the Notre Dame geographical clubs. 
It would be in order for me to give special mention of each of the staff who so diligently and selflessly contributed much time and effort In making our Directory a wonderful success. First, sincere appreciation to Paul Lombard! who pre­sented us with something that will help maintain class spirit in the ensuing years and which will also ensure a strong and close unity of Alumni of the Class of '60. Secondly, special and heart­felt thanks to our staff . . . TIM CARROLL, BILL COLE.\L\N, DICK DAGGETT, TOM DEMPSEY, NICK GR/\FFEO, LEN HANLOCK, HANK JUNGE, TOM QUINN, MIKE SHIPMAN, ED SQUIRE and WALT WILLIAMSON. And finally, may I not forget to acknowledge the talented and original art \vork of JACK SALA­DINO and his staff . . .ROGER DE NISCIA, JERRY FLORENT and BARRY MAGUIRE, who designed an inimitable format. 
By the way, those who as of yet have not received a copy of the Directory may do so by dropping me a line, and I will be more than happy to send you one. 
As many of you know, I will continue to be your Class Secretary- until the election of _ new class officers at our five-year reunion In 1965. It is my hope that until that lime, you will keep me informed and abreast of any items of news that will be of interest to >-our classmates. Those who have alwa>-s had the desire to sec their names In print—this is your chance. So, PLEASE "keep in touch." 
Until my next column, may you all have a rewarding summer. 
From the Alumni Office: FRANK J. MOOTZ. JR., 7002 Park Av., In­dianapolis, was an ensign aboard the destroyer Collett when it collided with the destroyer Am-men off the California coast In July. Eleven were killed, but Frank escaped injury. He can be reached c/o USS Collett, DD 730, FPO San Francisco, Calif. 
J. MICHAEL SCH.AEFER, xvho spent a year with the Class, would still like to be considered a member although he got hts degree in accoundng at the U. of California, famed as the *'alma mater of REV. JAMES DOLL, CS.C." Mike is attending Georgetown Law School, has been to Europe and made a short trip to Russia, and says: "The far flung activity and responsible leadership of the Notre Dame Men is without parallel among America's leading educational in­stitutions." At Bcrkely Mike was men's represen­tative in the student senate and president of the 
U.C. Young Republicans. You will remember htm as a Scripto pen salesman. Junior Achievement scholar, president of Ca^-anaugh Hall (first in the Mardi Gras Foundation drive), member of the Freshman Class executive committee, and, with TOM SH1SH^UN and TOM MEDLAND, found­er of the ill-fated Klwanis-sponsored Circle K ser\ice club which wtts refused recognition as a duplication of Blue Circle. 
RONALD V. PAUL is a representative of Con­necticut Mutual Life with Stumb agency in De­troit. He lives ai 16732 Warwick Rd, Detroit. JA!lfES E. HOUSTON of Caspar, ^Vyo., has joined the production department at Monsanto Chemical's plastics division plant at Springfield, .Mass., while DON L. KRISTINIK of Houston, Tex., is with Monsanto's plastics plant at -Texas City, Tex. Mrs. JOHN E. BORGERDING, wife of a law grad at 1679 Prairie Av., Belolt, Wis., will go to Radio Free Europe In Munich, Germany, , this fall to broadcast the message for peoples behind the Iron Curtain which won her a trip to Europe (Including Lisbon and Paris) in a contest sponsored by the Crusade for Freedom. The Borgerdings have four-ycar-old twins and a daughter, 3. 
News was made by a couple of Graduate School Classmates. Sister Mary Catherine, S.C.N., of Nazareth College, is making quite a stir with her writings, based on her Ph.D. work en the similarities between Thomism and Husseri's Phenomenology, as discussed in the writings of the famed European convert Edith Stein. ED­MUND B. WUTZER took a six months "military leave of absence" from his job as parole officer for hardened criminals at Dannemora, N.Y. Ed was a grad student in correctional administration. 
Class President DICK CORBETT covered the Democratic and Republican National Conventions in Los Angeles and Chicago for his fltoccsan newspaper. In Chicago, on the adminlstratl\'e staff of Chicago's Hy Raksin (a Kennedy lieu­tenant), Dick interviewed all the principals on religious bias. It didn't hurt that Dick knew Carol DiSallc (S.M.C. '60), daughter of Ohio's governor. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 2960 79 
Ihe University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
(Ed. Nolc: The following letter, addressed to the Class of '60 in their directory, is reprinted because of the importance of its message to all young alunmi.) 
Gentlemen: 

Your Class Directoiy is in the constnictive tradition of our young alumni. 
During your years at Notre Dame you have been a part of a peiiod of accelei-ation. Progiess has always been a goal, as has e.\cellence. But in your Notre Dame lifetime these goals have been intensified, and their realization has been implemented by teaching and facilities not always accessible to those who were here before you. 
Your intellectual curiosity is established. Your concepts are great. Your abhorrence for mediocrity has been rooted deep. These are tremendous assets in all of the walks in the alumni life you now begin. 
May I nm a slight risk in the interest of enlisting your cooperation? 
You are now entering a world in which you are not the "senior citizens." In your job, in the seivices, in your community life, in your pai-ish, in your fraternal or political affiliations, you will be welcome and re­spected new blood. 
But you will also encounter traditions, i)rocedures, viewpoints, and goals which may be something less dian those which your four years at Notre Dame have accustomed you to axpect. The realization of this gap may or may not be present in your older associates. 
Don't condemn them or the earlier ei'as which formed them. Rather, if you wish to improve the world, and enjoy it, hold fast to your greater goals, and work patiently with those aiound you. With your enthusi­asm and abilities you can achieve all they hoped for— they will sincerely appreciate your support — and from this unity you can move on toward the goals of your own. 
The alumni program is being constantly modified, studied and revised to meet new conditions. Your help and participation is essential in this. 
Fundamentally, in all ages, there is rich reward in fraternal tics and in continuing closeness to your Univei-sity. 
You will be pleasantly surprised at the sincerity with which your fellow alumni of the years before you will wish you well and offer a helping hand. Don't let an exception disappoint or alienate you. You are a lasting part of Notre Dame, and Notre Dame of you. The whole pui-pose of alunmi organization is to promote die proper functioning of all our parts. The Alumni Office is your Alumni Office. The Class of 1960 is your Class. ^Vhatever Club area you live in is your Club area. The ALUMNUS and NOTRE DAME are your magazines. 
We look fonvard to a mutually enjoyable future. 
Best wishes to you all. 
President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 










