The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
L. ^i.h£iT.' OF 
rEB^l357 _• 

NOTRE 'S 
DAME o^ALUMNUS 
Jyco %o 
^, 

Volume 35 Number 2 • Feb.-Mar., 1957 JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor JOHN N. CACKLEY, Jr., '37, Managing Editor 
f^-+ 


OPE^AtioN 

!•* 
Na\7 Captain ^Villiam M. Hawkcs, '33, holds microphone as he and Rear Admiral George 
Dufek (right) pose near an American flag erected at the South Pole on Oct. 31,, 1956..-They 
were aboard the first plane, a Navy transport, ever to land, at the Pole., A iribtipn: picture: 
camera is set up to record the c\ent This photo was distributed by the U S. Navy on Noi 
13, 1956 See story on page 4 „..-i?^ i\ 
This is the first time in 115 vears that the Holv Cross Fathers have asked for financial aid. 
years tiicre. Tlie seminaiy receives its name from Rev. Basil Moreau, C.S.C, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, It will be used as a "liousc of studies" on the college level. 
Rev. Alfred F. Mendcz, C.S.C, has been designated director oi Provincial Development and will have charge of the nationwide campaign, of which the Univei^ity is assuming one-third as its share of the total amount. His staff includes assistant dircctoi's Rev. John 
H. Wilson, CS.C, Rev. Joseph M. Rick. C.S.C. and Rev. Jolin ]. Lane. C.S.C. 
Father Mendez, an alumnus in Notre Dame's 1931 Class, was foi-merly place­ment director at the University and also supciviscd the student aid program. He was a member of the faculty from 1948 until 1952. A native of Chicago, Father Mendez entered the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross in 1925 and was ordained to the priesthood in 1935. He was Director of the Texas missions for many years before being assigned to the Univei-sity. 
Father Wilson graduated fro m Notre Dame in 1932 and received a. law degree two yeai^s later. He was ordained in 1941 and sei-\'cd as director' of vocations during the period 1943­
55. Before his appointment to the 
Office of Provincial Development staff, (continued on page 14) 
This inagazint is piibltslitrd bi-inoiitlily by ihe University of Notre Daiiie, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Posloffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912, 


Support of 100^ Alumni Urged for New Seminary 
One-hundred per cent participation in the 15th Annual .•\lumni Fund to raise .$1,000,000 as pan ol a nation­wide campaign for a new $3,000,000 seminary to be erected on the Notre Dame campus lias been announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hcsbiu-gh, C.S.C. president. Tlie dynamic message by Father Hcsburgh on the opposite page describes in graphic detail the impor­tance of and need for the new seminar)-. 

It will replace the old building con­structed almost 40 yeai-s ago, and will also be named Moreau Seminaiy which is the same as the present struc­ture. The building now being used is inadequate and its facilities are out­moded for the many new vocations being received into the Holy Cross Older. The new seminar)' will provide accommodations for 200 .seminarians and temporarily professed brothers of the Congregation. There will also be a limited number of rooms for semi­retired religious, and for faculty mem­bers. This is the first time in 115 years of supplying spiritual and educational needs for the University and various high scliools that the Holy Cross Fathers have asked for direct financial assistance. In announcing the fund­raising drive. Rev. Theodore J. Meh­ling, C.S.C, provincial of the Indiana 
Noire Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
Province, stated, "This seminaiy is the indispensable life-line to all our works: teaching, preacJjing, liome and foreign missions, and chaplaincies." 
.'\lumni will have an opportunity to establish gifts in mcnioiy of deceased priest-teachers or "appreciation gifts" in honor of past or present-day Holy Cross Fathers. Obviously, the bene­factor may designate his gift in meinor\' of a deceased relative other than religious. 
A unique feature of the seminaiy will be the Benefactors' Chapel where benc­factoi-s and their intentions will be re­membered in daily Mass. 
-Architects plans of the new semi­naiy, to be located on the nonheast section of the campus overlooking St. Joseph's Lake, indicate that ground breaking will be in the spring of this year with the four-stoiy building being completed by early fall of 1958. In addition to the main chapel, there will be si.\ smaller memorial chapels, class­rooms, assembly room, libraiy, dining room, kitchen and gymnasium. 
The present Moreau Seminaiy, built in 1920, was planned to house 75 semi­narians. Current enrollment is 106 with prospects of about 140 by 1958. Since the erection of the old seminar)', almost 100 per cent of Holy Cross priests have spent from one to four 

A MEMORIAL FOR THE FUTURE 
Notre Dame Men Will Understand the Present Need 
By REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. President, University of Notre Dame 
I have writ­ten of many of our needs over these past yeai"s, but hei-e is a new one that will surely appeal to every Notre Dame graduate, be­cause it goes right to the heart of Notre Dame. There never w o u 1 d have been a No­tre Dame had not a young Holy Cross Priest left home an d country, 116 years ago, with a gi'eat 
vision in his heart. Father Sorin was the first of a long line of Holy Cross Priests for whom this Univer­sity was a life's work, almost a passion, certainly a devoted service of consecration. All of you have had your favorites. Some were great teachers, othei-s shone as rectoi-s or prefects, some may have gotten in your hair as Prefects of Discipline, othei-s may have whispered good words of advice to you in the confessionals hei-e. It's difficult to mention the long line, the Fathers O'Haras, Farleys, Brennans, Burkes, Wards, Cavanaughs, O'Donnells, Walshes, or the in­terlopers in this Irish litany like the Fathers Dore­
•mus, Gassensmith, Kirsh, Wenninger, Furstoss, and ; Steiner. They are every manner of man—some jolly, j "some stern, some brilliant, some pedantic, some force-l.ful, some shy—but like a general store of old, thei-e I has always been someone and something here for everyone's need, and all of them gave to this place their life and whatever talents they had, gi-eat and . -small. Most of them lived where you lived, and some of them were still living here in the halls when your 
-sons aiTived. 
We have never really had enough Holy Cross 
' Priests at Notre Dame, especially in recent yeai's as the number of students and classes and halls have gi'own. But now, at last, our prayei-s are being heard. 
and the candidates are entering the Holy Cross No­vitiate in such numbers that any two classes will practically fill the seminary at Moreau which has to serve for the four college years of the seminarians. Besides, the building is now really a shambles. 
This is a problem, to be bui-sting at the seams, but a good problem to have. The Congregation has de­cided to build a new Moreau Seminary that will ac­commodate 200 seminarians during their four years at Notre Dame. Since the University has traditional­ly had the services of about a third of the Holy Cross Priests in our Province, we would like to sponsor a third of the costs of this new seminary. 
This will come to about a million dollars. Friends of the University may help with this most appealing project, but we feel that Notre Dame men will best understand the present need and the future strength that will come to Notre Dame, both on our faculty and in our residence halls, as greater numbers of well-educated priests are prepared for this work. 
One can walk through the cemetery here, and i-ead the valiant names on the crosses, and dream back over more than a hundred years of life and gi-owth here at Notre Dame. Here is a chance to memorialize some of these men by having a room named for them in the new Moreau Seminaiy, so that the wellspring of many of Notre Dame's future teach­ers and prefects may be kept in touch with the tra­ditions of the past. 
Thus you can help bring true the wish of one Holy Cross Priest, our former President, Father Charles O'Donnell, who wrote so beautifully for all of us: 
"So lueTl I love these icoods I half believe Thei-e is an intimate fellowsJiip ice share; So viany years we breathed the same brave air. Kept spring in common, and icere one to grieve Su7nmer's undoing, saw the Fall bei-eave Us both of beauty, together learned to bear The weight of lointer:—when I go othenche)-e— An unretimiing journey—I would leave Some lohispei-of a song in these old oalcs, A footfall lingering till some distant summer Anothei' singer down these patlis may stray— The destined one a golden ftiture cloalcs— And he may love them, too, this graced neivcomei; And may reine^nbei-that I passed this way." 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy Feb.-Mar.f 1957 


Capt. Bill Hawkes, 33, on South Pole Expedition 
The ALUJINUS magazine front cover features Capt. William H. Hawkes, a Notre Dame engineering graduate in 1933, who now is recognized as prob­ably the nation's top expert on frigid weather flying conditions and mainte­nance. He is one of the key partici­pants in "Operation Deepfreeze," an expedition being conducted in the Ant­arctic by the U. S. Navy from 1955 until 1959. 
Exploration is underway on securing Vjiowledge in an area which may some day be the source of minerals, a center for weatlier control or a new theater of war. Various other nations which have established bases include Great Britain, New Zealand, Russia, Chile and Ar­gentina. 
Capt. Hawkes was an airplane tech­nical advisor on a previous South Pole expedition with Admiral Richard Byrd. His own plane was named "Notre Dame." He has been a Navy airman for 20 years and an early career as­signment listed Bill Hawkes as pilot in a dive bombing squadron on the U.S.S. Saratoga. 
Following graduation at Notre Dame he studied at the Massachusetts Insti­tute of Technology', for almost two years, while taking advanced courses in aeronautical engineering. 
Some authorities believe that this \'ast and bleak six million square mile con­tinent contains tlie answers to atom-age problems. Witli the world's great pow­ers moving into the unexplored Ant­arctica, each countr>''s team of highly trained men will gatlier data for a global scientific 
Bill Hawkes and other members ol "Operation Deepfreeze" are vitally in­terested in the ionosphere of the earth —information which scientists predict will be wortli a billion dollars to the; rocket program. Tliis is the Interna­tional Geoph>'sical Year, 1957-58, wliich is a specific time for world-wide observations by forty nations working co-operatively. 
The expedition to Little America \vill experience temperatures ranging down to 80 below zero. The ice-bound con­tinent is uninhabited and it has been estimated if all the ice on Antarctica melted it would cause the oceans to rise 105 feet. 
During this four-year period. Rear Admiral Geoige Dufek, coimnander of the Antarctic Task Force, Captain Hawkes and the others assigned to "Op­eration Deepfreeze" will accumulate valuable information about the 'great' unknown region' which we commonly term tlie South Pole. It may be the answer to many problems m our battle for survival in the future. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. University of Notre Dame Foundation Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear Father: 
When I haul this old Remington Rand from the bedroom closet floor out to the table in the breakfast al­cove and start tapping keys, believe me Father, it is a momentous occasion. 
Thank you for your letters con­cerning my meager "gifts." I will always treasure them. 
If you had been away from Notre Dame since 1924, then return to the campus like I, this past year, you would possibly feel as cheaply as I for not having participated in the building of the Notre Dame of to­day. Accordingly I cannot call them gifts. They are only something to help a fellow hold his head up. 
AVhenever I can. Father, you will receive these pittances from me. I hope and pray tliat I may increase the amounts soon. 
'•——^'24 
CAPT. WILLIAAf HAWKES, '33 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
JOSEPH M. BYIUS% JR., '15 

Byrne Company in 70th Year of Business 1 
The Joseph M. Byrne Company of } Newark, N. J., has just celebrated its | 70th year of operation in the insur-| ance and travel agency business. It | was founded by the late Joseph M. * Byrne, Sr., '79, and its present execu-| tive officers include Joseph M. Byrne, | Jr., '15, chairman of the board, and | Joseph M. Byrne III, '47, president. 
The late Mr. Byrne, Sr., founded the company in 1886 and it has grown from a small one-man business to rank among the foremost and largest of its type in the state of New Jersey. Mr. Byrne •was elected to the New Jersey Assembly in 1891, was a member of the State Board of Education and a member of the Board of Works and! Water Commissioners. 
Joseph Byrne, Jr., has been a gen­erous benefactor to Notre Dame and also has served as a distinguished mem­ber of tlie Universit)''s Associate Board of Lay Trustees for many years. He has been an outstanding civic leader and at \'arious periods he was vice-^ chairman of tlie board of the Port of New York Authority, a commissioner of' 1 the City of Newark, Director of Parks.; and Public Property and Director of Public Works. Mr. Byrne is a Knight of Malta as well as a Knight of St. Gregory. 
Joseph Byrne III is a veteran of the.^ 

U. S. Marine Corps in World War II. ' He is a trustee of the AVelfare Federa-*j tion of Newark and a trustee of the Boys' Club of Newark. 
NEW CAMPUS MOVIE 


ZiUo^i^ eommenU ^^Z^ 
Many Notre Dame men are happy that the University has re-engaged Terry Brennan as head football coach for 1957. 
During thirty-five years, the Alumni Office has not been asked to make recommendations, nor has it made them concerning ath­
1} letic policies. These policies, like other University policies, have not been made 
•without regard for alumni opinion. But because most admin­istrators, and most personnel involved in J'"" Armstrong the policies have been alumni, there 
^.has been a confidence in the appropri­ateness of the decisions, backed by an 
^alumni faith in the overall patronage of Our Lady. 
The 1956 football season was a mat­ter of universal interest and general concern. Many alumni are not in­sistent on uninterrupted victor)' in foot­
_ ball. And many, indeed, have been ardent in their support of the empha­sis of the non-athletic, and the rising academic prestige of the University. 
What 1956 did, in the limelight of its reverses, was to clarify much of the perspective somewhat obscured in the previous transition. 
Emphasis on the non-athletic does 
' hot mean, to Notre Dame men, a de­emphasis of the rich tradition of ath­letic strength. That point has now been re-affirmed by the Univereit)'. 
The publicity, public relations and enrollment benefits of the victor)' tra­dition in athletics have been spotlighted by the implications of their absence. These are areas of universal signifi­cance to Notre Dame e.xtending con­siderably beyond the borders of the athletic program. 
,. And despite the happier economic fortunes of the University, the foot­
"ball situation still occupies a strategic position in the general budget of Notre Dame that makes the empty seat a problem grave beyond the scope of the Athletic Department. 
In the face of all these clarifying .concepts, it was small wonder that some unprecedented concern, some unusual 
•articulation, a rash of rumors, and some extensive administrative study emerged from the 1956 season. 
The Alumni Office, as a channel of opinion to and from alumni, believes that the decision to re-engage Terry Brennan for 1957 is a sound one. A series of factors have been advanced as the cause of the 1956 reverses. Probably the results stemmed from a combination of all, rather than from any single one. 
Because Terry Brennan is still pos­sessed of the youth, the intellect, and the evidences of talent as a coach that made him the choice of the University in 1954, he will use this year to anal)'ze thoroughly the causes that changed the long-time pattern of Notre Dame football. 
There is no doubt in anyone's mind now that students, alumni, friends, and 
'The People's Choice' 

(Ed. Note: Jim Armstrong re­cently was elected chairman of the American Alumni Council's V Dis­trict for a two-year term beginning in 1958. He was also appointed director of the A.*VC's 1958 national convention to be held at Lake Placid, N. Y. 
As dbtrict chairman, Jim will head alumni officers of 150 colleges and universities, both state and pri­vate, in Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Ohio. In­cluded in the organization are alum­ni secretaries, directors of alumni and development funds, and editors of alumni publications. JC) 
the University administration, are vi­tally interested in Notre Dame football. 
There is no doubt that Notre Dame hopes to stay in the van of the great football teams of the American collie and university scene. 
There is no doubt, in the light of tra­dition, that Notre Dame teams can occupy these heights without sacrific­ing the constant and primar)' search for academic excellence. 
The evidence seems to poinfto ever)' effort to make 1957 a substantially dif­ferent football year. 
Notre Dame men everyivhere will be ready to offer their enthusiasm, their prayers, and their personal efforts, where desired, to effect the program. 
"Notre Dame," a new 16 mm movie in sound and color will be available for alumni clubs on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 29. Produced and directed by Owen Murphy ('15) Studios, New York City, the film features current campus scenes with Sportscaster Joe Boland, '27, as narrator. For complete informa­tion address: "Notre Dame" Film, Box 81, Nofre Dame, Ind. 
LOBUND BEGINS GRADUATE STUDY 
Lobund Institute will begin a new academic program, on the graduate level, leading to the Doctor of Philoso­phy degree. The advanced work will be concentrated in gnotobiotics, which is the production and study of orga­nisms isolated from all other species or in association with recognized species. Dr. Thomas G. Ward, famed virologist, who has been a member of the Lobund staff since last summer, has been named an associate director of the In­stitute and will be in charge of the Graduate Study Division. This impor­tant announcement was made by Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School and Professor James 
A. Reyniers, director of Lobund's inter­nationally known germ-free life laboratory. 
According to Dr. Ward, candidates for Notre Dame's new doctoral pro­gram in gnotobiotics should have a bachelor's degree in pre-medical studies, biology, or biochemistry. A limited number of students will be accepted for the semester beginning ne.xt September. 
TOUR FOR N.D. MEN 

Prof. Charies E. Pamell, of the Notre Dame faculty, is conducting a tour of Europe for alumni which wU leave Montreal on June 12 and return to New York on Aug. 12, 1957. The group will visit England, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Switz­erland, Italy, Monaco and France, Notre Dame alumni who are inter­ested should contact the Travel De­partment, First Bank and Trust Co., South Bend, Ind., before March 15. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 " 5 
i^^^^?jr..i>:«­
• '•:<»' 

Fr. Fitzgerald Speaks to Catholic Group 
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, speaking at the 29th annual conference of the Catholic Association for International Peace at Trinity College, Washington, D. C, described the ILO as "making steady progress toward helping workers to economic maturity in underdeveloped nations." Conceding that it may be Russia's hope "to paralyze, destroy or use the ILO for her own ends," Father Fitzgerald called for more constructive American leadership in the organization to demonstrate to the countries of Asia, Africa and South America "the merits of our political and economic institutions." 
Father Fitzgerald's views on "The ILO and Social Responsibility for Progress" were based on his on-the-spot observations and interviews with employers, workers and government repre­sentatives at the ILO's annual conference in Geneva last July. He is director of the industrial relations section of Notre Dame's department of economics. 
Corporations Donate Equipment to N. D. 
Five nationally prominent corporations, the International Business Machines Corp., the Radio Corporation of America, the Magnavox Corp., the Bell Telephone System, and Tek­tronix, Inc., have recently presented equipment to Notre Dame's department of electrical engineering, according to an announcement by Dr. Harold EUithom, department head. 
IBM has provided four digital computer kits, RCA has presented a Geiger counter to Notre Dame's electrical engineering laboratories, while Magnavox Corporation is the donor of a tele­vision chassis to be used in the instruction of electrical engineering students. 
A probability board was given by the Indiana BeU Telephone Co. and two cathode ray demon­stration kits have been received from the Tek­tronix, Inc., Portland, Oregon. 
Dr. Johnston Writes New Classroom Text 
A new book designed to help college students "recognize the moral dimensions of business situations" has been written by Herbert John­ston, associate professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame. His Business Ethics (Pitmam Publishing Corp., New York) is both theoretical and practical, ranging in subject matter from "natural rights" to the 
£ Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
ethical implications of the controversial "right­to-work" laws and the guaranteed annual wage. /^^c«jn£i2y Case histories illustrating ethical principles are nJ?' ~//'^ presented throughout the text. 
"Journal" Prints Glass Research Article 
Two University of Notre Dame metallurgists reveal the results of their research in glass in a recent issue of The American Ceramic Society "Journal." The authors are G. C. Kuczynski and Isidor Zaplatynskyj, of the Department of Metallurgy. In their technical paper, "Sintering of Glass," the authors point out that the most likely mechanism for the closing of pores in glass, during the final stage of sintering, is that of the viscous flow caused by surface tension. 
Publication of a paper by The American Ceramic Society in either of its two technical magzizines, the "Bulletin" or the "Journal," constitutes a mark of recognition for its author since the Society's publications are the principal American sources of technical information in the nonmetallic minerals field. 

Father Putz Author of New Book 
The history, regional diversity and influence of Catholicism in this country is analyzed in The Catholic Church, USA, a new book pub­lished by Fides Publishers Association, Chicago. Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C, associate professor of religion at the University of Notre Dame and a national leader in the Catholic Action movement, is editor of the volume which contains essays on various aspects of Catholic life by 25 clergymen and laymen. 
The book deals with the history, organization and financiatl structure of the Church in America as well as with its relationship to the Vatican and its far-flimg parochial school system. Among the contributors are Rev. John Tracy Ellis, Rev. John A. O'Brien, Rev. John La-Farge, S.J., Edward Marciniak, Archbishop Robt. E. Lucey of San Antonio, and Dale Francis. 
Irish Debaters to Compete in 10 Tourneys 
The Notre Dame debating team will compete in at least ten major tournaments during the school year, according to Prof. Leonard Som­mer, debate coach and director of forensics at the university. 
Approximately forty Notre Dame students are on the debating team roster and will repre­sent the university in intercollegiate competi­tion, Sommer ssiid. They wiU be prepsired to argue either side of this year's national debating topic, "whether the United States should dis­continue direct economic aid to foreign countries." 
Leading members of this year's Notre Dame debating team are Richard Ninneman, Tomah, Wis.; Paul Coffey, Lorain, Ohio; Jack MartzeU, Baton Rouge, La.; and Jerry Brady, Idaho Falls, Ida. 

Nobel Prize Winner Lectures on Campus 
Professor Vincent du Vigneaud, 1955 Nobel prize winner in chemistry, delivered the annual Nieuwland lectures in Notre Dame's College of Science. 
Professor du Vigneaud has received several major honors in addition to the Nobel prize. Among them are the Lasker Award of the American Public Health Association, the Borden Award for Research in the Medical Sciences, the Mead-Johnson Vitamin Award of the American Institute of Nutrition and the HiUebrand Prize of the Chemical Society of Washington. He is a former president of the American Society of Biological Chemistry and is a member of seversil scientific societies. 
The Nieuwland lectures at Notre Dame were established in 1943 in memory of Rev. Julius 
A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, the Notre Dame priest-scientist whose research led to the development of synthetic rubber. 

D'Alelio Addresses Scientists 
The future of a company depends largely on the quality of the research being done right now, Dr. G. F. D'Alelio, head of the department of chemistry at Notre Dame, stated in an ad­dress "Creative Thinking in Research" before three hundred scientists, engineers and execu­tives at the Research and Development Engi­neering meeting of the Whirlpool-Seeger Cor­poration, St. Joseph, Mich. 
Noting that big business and big research go hand in hand, the Notre Dame scientist empha­sized the importance of basic research carried out on college and university campuses even though "it is not always of immediate commer­cial VEdue." He warned that American manu­facturers are committing "industrial suicide" if they continue to lure research scientists from the campus to the industrial laboratory. If tliis trend continues, he cautioned, applied research will die from the lack of fundamental knowledge and the shortage of adequately trained scientists. 

Students Attend Symposium 
The Catholic college graduate, in the opinion of many priests, is not carrying his weight in the lay apostolate with the result that the important work is stiU being done "by the rela­tively un-educated or poorly educated Catholic lay person," Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., visiting professor of sociology at the University of Notre Dame, declared recently at the fourth annual Advent Symposium held on campus. 
"Four years in college, even in a Catholic college, does not automatically make us experts in the lay apostolate," Father Fichter asserted. He noted that "some people with relatively little formal schoohng are making a tremendous con­tribution, while others with the highest aca­demic degrees obtainable are doing practicEilly nothing." 
Father Fichter, an authority on pairish soci­ology, and Donald Thorman, managing editor of the Ave Alaria, were the principal speakers at the Sjonposium. More than 200 college students from throughout the country attended the sessions which were sponsored by the National Catholic Action Commission whose headquarters are at Notre Dame. 

Soviet Diplomats Are Communist Agents 
The United States must negotiate with Russia, but American diplomats should "recognize the 
U.S.S.R. and Soviet representatives for what they are according to their own doctrines and practices," according to Dr. Stephen Kertesz, head of the University of Notre Dame's Commit­tee on International Relations. 
"Soviet diplomats," Professor Kertesz empha­sizes, "are, in practice. Communist agents who use diplomatic privileges and immimities for realization of Commvmist aims, that is, ultimate­ly for undermining the state to which they are accredited." He asserts that what so-called Soviet diplomats "reaUy understand and practice is international revolution and not international cooperation and peace." 
A former Himgarian diplomat and one-time Hungarian minister to Italy, Prof Kertesz gives his views on Soviet and American negotiating behavior in the January issue of Notre Dame's Review of Politics. He is the author of "Diplo­macy in a Whirlpool" and has edited "The Fate of East Central Europe: Hopes and Failures of American Foreign Policy." 

Prof. Leader Gives Two Talks 
Sacred £urt, Uke chastity, can hardly be taught, but must be practiced after careful preparation, Robert A. Leader, liturgical artist and assistant professor of art at Notre Dame asserted. 
Leader expressed his views at the annual High School Teachers Institute of the Archdiocese of Saint Louis. He delivered two lectures on "Modem Education and the Young Catholic Artist" and "Catholic Tradition and Modem Art —Are they Compatible?" 
A painter and stained glass designer. Leader contended that "you can no more trEtin liturgi­cal artists in the classroom than you can teach soldiers living in barracks about war. The soldier," the Marine veteran of the Iwo Jima landings said, "must be made hard and wise and become a part of nature. Just as the soldier must come to know his tools by use, so must the artist," Leader stressed. "The archi­tect must be at the building site, the sculptor at the quarry or foundry, the artist up on his scaffolding," he said. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
Conaghan, Velde and Hackett, Chi­

AfeuAl o^ the . . . cago; Mr. Carl McGowan, General Counsel of die Chicago and North­western Railroad, will deliver the fourth lecture on Wednesday, April 3. 





Notre Dame Law School 
Directory 
A new edition of the Legal Di­rector)' of the Notre Dame Law Association is scheduled for mailing late in Februarj' or early in March. 

Moot Court ' 
Mr. Justice Jolm M. Harlan of the 

Supreme Court of tlie United States presided over the court which heard die final argument in die Seventh An­nual Moot Court Competition on October 24. Other members of the .-court wliich sat on that occasion were Judge Charles E. Whittaker of tlie United States Court of Appeals for die Eighth Circuit, and Judge Charles 
J. McNamee of the United States Dis­trict Court for the Northern District of Ohio. 
The students who participated in the argument before diis distinguished court were: Messrs. Patrick J. Berri­gan, Lewiston, New York; Lawrence 
A. Kane, Jr., Cincinnati, Ohio; K. Wayne Kent, Evansville, Indiana; and AVilliam C. McLaughlin, South Wey­mouth, Massachusetts. 
Messrs. Berrigan and Kent were ad­
judged the winners and received The 
Dean's Award, established in 1950 by 
former dean Clarence E. Manion. In 
addition, Mr. Norman J. Barrj' of Chi­
cago, President of the Notre Dame Law 
Association, presented to each partici­
pant a cash prize provided by the 
Association. 
Messrs. Berrigan and Kent, with Mr. 
Kane as alternate, represented die 
Notre Dame Law School in the Chi­
cago rc^onal round of die National 
Moot Court Competition. 
Our men were uniformly successful in the regional round and were adjudged the winning team. As such, Messrs. Berrigan, Kent and Kane represented the states mentioned, namely, Indiana, Illinois and AVisconsin, in the final round of the National. Moot Court Competition in New York in Decem­ber. There Notre Dame was defeated by the team representing the Columbia Law. School. 
Hats Off 
Out in Las Vegas, Nevada, five loyal members of die Associa:tion have 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
banded togedier to create a partial scholarship. To make this possible each of the following contributed $100: . Michael L. Hines, John H. McNamee, John F. Mendoza, John C. Mowbray 
and Robert Santa Cruz. 


Pittsburgh Meeting 
Honorable Hugh C. Boyle, President Judge of the Orphans' Court of Alle­ghany County, was chairman of a com­mittee which arranged a Notre Dame Law Association dinner on ^Vednes­day, Januar)' 30, 1957 at the Carlton" House in Pittsburgh. Other members of the committee were Messrs. Earl 
W. Brii^er and Peter F. Flaherty. Dean O'Meara spoke at the meeting, which was held in connection with the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Bar Association. 

Placement Notes 
Thomas S. Calder, Associate Editor 
of the Noire Dame Lawyer, has been 
notified by Judge Potter Stewart, 
United States Court of Appeals for the 
Sixth Circuit, of his appointment as 
the Judge's law clerk for next year. 
George A. Patterson of the Class of 
1958, has been appointed a research 
assistant for next summer in the office 
of the General Counsel of the Metro­
politan Life Insurance Company in 
New York. 
Do you know of a professional op­
portunity for a young lawyer? 


Lecture Series 
A series of lectures for Notre Dame undergraduates who are considering a legal career is being sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School. The purpose of die lectures is to provide information about the legal profession, its traditions, ideals, opportunities and responsi­bilities. 
Justice Walter V. Schaefer of die Supreme Court of Illinois delivered the first lecture on Thursday, December 
13. The second lecture has been sclieduled for ^Vednesday, February 6 and the speaker on that occasion will be Mr. Edmund A. Stephan of the Cliicago firm of Mayer, Friedfich, Spiess, Tiemej', Brown & Piatt. The third lecture will be delivered on AVed­nesday, March 13 by Mr. R. Corwin Stevenson of die firm of Stevenson, The final lecture will be delivered by Dean O'Meara on a date to be announced. 

Recruitment 

The Dean and members of the faculty have been visiting various Catholic colleges and universities to acquaint prospective law students with die advantages of the Notre Dame Law School. The following institu­tions have been or will be visited for this purpose: 
Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, 

Michigan. Canisius Collide, Buffalo, New York. College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, 
Minnesota. University of Dayton, Dayton, Ohio. Fairfield University, Fairfield, Con­
necticut. lona College, New Rochelle, New York. John Carroll University, Cleveland, 
Ohio. Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. Manhattan College, New York, New 
York. Niagara University, Niagara Falls, New York. Rockhurst College, Kansas City, Missouri. St. Ambrose College, Davenport, Iowa. St. Benedict's College, Atchison, Kansas. St. Bonaventure University, St. Bonaventure, New York. St. Francis College, Brookl>'n, New York. St. John's University, Collegeville, Minnesota.; St.' Joseph's College, Collegeville, Indianzi. St. Mar)''s College, \Vinona, Minne­sota. St. Peter's College, Jersey City, New Jersey. 
' 
Xavier University, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
R.I.P. 
Mr. James H. Kelleher of Kent, Washington died from a heart attack on November 7, 1956: Mr. Kelleher, senior partner of the firm of Kelleher & Curran, was an inter­ested and active member of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association. 

General Alfred M. Gruenther, for­mer Supreme Commander of NATO armed forces in Europe, received the University's Laetare Medal in a color­ful presentation held on Dec. 4 in the Drill Hall. Rev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh, C.S.C., conferred the honor, which has been "awarded annually since 1883 to an outstanding Catholic layman," on General Gruenther before a capacity audience composed of dis­tinguished guests, uniformed ROTC units, faculty members and other Uni­versity officials. 
, Gruenther predicted that the de­
fense of western Europe will be guar­
anteed when the armed forces of west-

GENERAL ALFRED M. GRUENTHER 1956 NOTRE DAME LAETARE MEDALIST 

General Grucnther and Father Hesburgh arrived at St. Joseph Airport in a Military Air Transport plane and were greeted by a Notre Dame ROTC honor guard. 
em Germany become effective and augment the military might of the. fifteen NATO nations. He conceded that the NATO forces today "are not yet strong enough to defend western Europe against an all-out attack," but he emphasized, however, that we have "the overwhelming capacity to retaliate against Communist aggression wth long-range air power." 
President Eisenhower, in a message addressed to Father Hesburgh and (continued on page 12) 
Photo on left, left to right: Father Hesburgh; General J. Lawton Collins, former Army Chief of Staff who received the Lactarc Medal in 1930; and General Gruenther. Photo on right: General Grucnther used a large map of Europe during his talk on NATO. 
m^i: 

-- Facilities include a spacious lounge with a >-!ew overlooking St. Mary's Lake. 


NEW FATIMA RETREAT HOUSE OPENS 
The attractive and impressive Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House, com­pleted in the Fall of 1956, is now avail­able for campus retreats of alumni groups and individuals. Operated by the priests of the Congr^^tion of Holy Cross, the building is located on the northwest shore of St. Mary's Lake at Notre Dame. Adjacent to the Retreat House is the beautiful shrine of Our Lady of Fatima. 
Facilities will include 40 individual (60 retreatants can be accommodated) rooms with private bath, a chapel, lounge, dining room and kitchen. Liv­ing quarters for the Holy Cross Mission Band Fathers and Brothers will be in the base wing of the building. The entire plant is air-conditioned and functionally designed. Founded in 1912 the Mission Band priests have traveled extensively in giving retreats, missions and novenas in all sections of the nation. The retreat movement at Notre Dame was started in 1917 when Father Wendell Corcoran, C.S.C., conducted services for one individual. From that unauspicious beginning the retreats held at Notre Dame in August now attract approximately 1,500 men from 25 states. Many of those in attend­ance have not missed a retreat at Notre Dame in 30 years. 
The first alumni group to make res­ervations for a weekend retreat is the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. Under the chairmanship of John P. Sullivan, they will arrive on campus during the month of May for meditation and spiri­tual devotion. 
A novel arrangement of theater-type 
pews allo%vs imobstructed view and 
restful audition during the conferences 
in the chapel. The view of St. Mary's 

Lake through huge picture windo\vs is 
beautiful and memorable. 
The Missionaries were hopeful of a permanent location where week-end retreats could be held throughout the year. Contributions of $300,000 were given to the Mission Band to start a project that eventually cost a total of $700,000 to build and furnish. 
Retreats have already been held for students, business women, teachers and husband-wives, in addition to frequent Days of Recollection for priests and laity. Those in attendance have praised the physical plant and the re­gime employed to ensure maximum spiritual benefits during these holy days. 
Especially pleased were husbahds and wives, usually in the forty to fifty-five age bracket who have come here for retreats. These couples may be faced with serious crises and readjust­ments equally as perilous as those they first encountered when starting out in marriage 20 or 25 years previously. The Missionaries were greatly encour­aged in knowing that they were able to help by providing counsel and an enwonment that would, with the aid of God's grace, bring tranquil solution to harrassing difficulties. 
Our Lady of Fatima retreats are operated on a volimtar)' giving basis. At the close of services an envelope is provided for free-will offerings. It is estimated that the cost for housing and feeding a Retreatant wll be about $16. 
The Retreat Director is anxious to assist in the promotion of retreats for alumni groups and will lend assistance and the necessary advertising material to such organizations. Inquiries should be addressed to the Retreat Director, Notre Dame. Ind. 
The new Retreat House, located at Notre Danie, is available for alumni club weekend retreats. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation and David Mann, Witaiette, 111., sophomore, who served as chairman of Student Foundation Week. More than 99.5% of students living on campus made token contributions to the University during the campaign. The student chairman stressed that 100% participation rather than attempting to obtain a large contributed amount was the goal of the annual drive. This is the third con­secutive year that the Student Body has sponsored this special event. 
Construction Progresses On New Campus Buildings 
Noire Dame's new $4,000,000 build­ing program is progressing despite an abundance of snow, ice and sleet all of which are normal for this locale during the winter months. ^Vork on the two residence halls has advanced to a point of steel girders beginning to take the shape of a three stor)' building and a general structural outline. The dining hall, too, is already above ground level. 
The project is scheduled for com­pletion in the spring of 1958. Keenan Hall, made possible through the gen­erosity of Mr. and Mrs. James F. Kce­
. nan. Ft. Wayne, Indiana, and the other student residence will accommodate 600 occupants. It will be possible for the University to house all undergradu­ates on campus for the first time since World War II. Keenan Hall is being named in memory of James F. Keenan, Jr., who died in 1941. Mr. Keenan, Sr., is a prominent hotel executive and a 1913 Notre Dame alumnus. 
The dining hall will have the most modem facilities for serving 1,000 stu­dents daily. An additional 600 per­sons can be seated by converting the entire dining space into one laige room. The present dining hall will continue to serve the remainder of the student body. A feature of the new dining room will be complete air-conditioning and also there will be ample storage space in the basement. 
Both residence halls are located on the northeaist part of tlie campus, near the Student Infirmary and immediately south of the Biology Building. The dining hall will be erected in the area adjacent to Juniper Road, facing west on the campus toward the two new residence halls. With the completion of these three halls, Notre Dame will have built 13 structures, in the past decade, totaling appro.ximately 11 million dollars. 
Club Calendar 
R^iilarly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Shera­ton, 715 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, 
N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at 
K. of C , 506 Dela-svare Ave., Buf­falo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CENTRAL OHIO—FiRt Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vii^nia Hotel, Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—First Wednesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High Street, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Western Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chicago. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 
7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE — Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m.. Governor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—First Mon­day of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theatre, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA — Second Tues­day of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH —Weekly luncheon 
. at theJVariety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pitts­burgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER—Monthly luncheon, Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Hotel Rochester, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 

ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
WASHINGTON — Weekly lunch­eon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 11 






Father Maguire Marks 60th Year as Priest 
Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C., who is credited with having persuaded Knute Rocknc to remain at Notre Dame as a chemistr)' instructor follow­ing his graduation, celebrated tlip 60th anniversar)- of his ordination in Sacred Heart Church on Dec. 16. He was ordained to the priesthood on De­cember 21, 1896. 
Father Maguire, who airived at Notre Dame as a seminarian seventy years ago, is one of a very few persons who remember the university's founder. Rev. Edward F. Sorin, ds.C . The venerable priest still is remarkably active as a counselor and confessor at Moreau Seminary on the campus and recalls that Notre Dame's famed golden dome was first gilded the year he arrived at tlie university. 
For more than twenty years after his ordination, from 1897 to 1920, Father Maguire was head of Notre Dame's chemistry department. Rockne, whom he remembers as "a ver)' fine teacher," was not the only student of his who achieved national prominence. The late Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C., whose research led to the development of synthetic rubber, also was a student and later a colleague of Father Maafuire. 
From 1950 to 1953, at foiir score years of age. Father Maguire returned to the Notre Dame faculty, this time teaching religion, after ser\'mg in sev­eral responsible posts of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross for thirty years. 
For approximately fifteen years Father Maguire was associated with St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, 
serving as its president from 1937. He was pastor of St. Churcli, South Bend, from 1934 and from 1937 to 1940. the following ten years he 
 1934 to  Patrick's  1931 to  During  was re­
ligious superior of die Community House, then a residence of Holy Cross priests and brothers on die Notre Dame campus. 
As counselor at Moreau Seminary, Father Maguire gives future Holy Cross priests, many of them destined to teach at Notre Dame, a special insight into the history and development of die Congregation of Holy Cross and the university. His stories of Notre Dame's early years bring to life men whose names loom large in Notre Dame's annals. 
Bom in Blythe, England, of Irish parentage on Oct. 28, 1871, Father Maguire is the last living member of his immediate family. He has rela-

Father Maguire and Edd!c Alahon, who has been custodian of laboratory equipment in the Chembtry Department for 46 years. 
tives in England and Australia and 
several cousins in die United .States. 

Assisting,., at his 60th anniversary Mass were Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., deacon; Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, C.S.C, sub-deacon; Rev. Paul Rankin, C.S.C., superior of Moreau Seminan' where Father Maguire resides, assist­ant priest; and Rev. Laurence J^iVas­seur, C.S.C, master of ceremonies. 1 he , sermon at the jubilee Mass was preached by Father Magiiire's long­time friend. Rev. Matthew Schu­macher, CS.C. ^ 
Laetare Medal 

(continued from page 9) -j read at the campus convocation by presidential assistant Kevin McCann, said "General Alfred M, Gmenthei-'s long devotion of brilliant talents and penetrating wisdom to the security and welfare of the Republic and the Free World have won him esteem and honor from his countrjTnen and from friends Jk of human freedom everywhere. 
"But I am sure that, in all the "• tribute paid liim at thb time, he will j particularly prize die award of the Lae­tare Medal by a great American uni­versity representing the spiritual and intellectual heritage of his forebearers. 1 
"Will you tell General Gruenther that, with all diose who are present for the ceremony, I Join in wann con­gratulations to him for a new honor that I know means much to him as an American of stout religious faith and ^ loyalty?" 
Using a 12-foot European map to illustrate his remarks. General Gruen­ther contended that the alliance sys­tem is tlie best way to defend our­selves and the western world against aggression. The mantle of leadership has fallen upon American shoulders, Gruenther asserted. "\Ve are going to have to lead the world through a very difficult period," he said. 
Gruenther described recent differ­ences and stresses among the western allies as "superficial" and asserted that anti-American sentiment in Europe "is not great." Alluding to American, world leadership, Gruenther expressed the hope that the United' States would ­be "easy to change when we are wrong and easy to live with when we are right." 
Upon retiring from the United States Army after 38 years of distinguished • ser\'ice. General Gruenther was ap­pointed, by President Eisenhower, to' be National President of the American Red Cross. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
An outstanding event on the Notre Dame Club of New York program, last Fall, was "Jack Lavelle Night." ' Al­though the honored guest needs no introduction to alumni—real or syn­thetic—nevcrtlieless we're going to print a few paragi-aphs. Since his graduation in 1928, Jack Lavelle has been "tlie victim" of an extremely suc­cessful career. His talents range from being one of the nation's most enter­taining raconteurs on the after-dinner­speech-circuit to possessing an uncanny ability in diagnosing intricate plays and formations of professional and college football teams. For many years he has scouted opponents for the New York Giants and sei-ved in the same capacity for his alma mater in the Army game series. 
His first scouting assignment was given by the late Knute Rockne when the latter desired grid information on 
Left to right: Tom Meaucy; Jackie FarrcU, head of the speakers' bureau for N. Y. Yankees; Jack Lavelle; Al Perrine; and columnist Walter "Red" Smith at the mike. 


N.Y. Alumni Sponsor 
*Jack Lavelle Night' 
Genial Jack Lavelle flanked by Jackie Farrell (left) and AI Perrine. 
forthcoming opponents. He did such an amazing job on obtaining details un­known by the coaching staff that Jack decided to "turn professional." 
As a roving ambassador of goodwill for the NY (football) Giants, N.D. and a host of other causes, he lays down a high caliber verbal barrage at more tlian 200 gatherings annually. Jack has frequently stated that "when we have chicken at home I automatically stand up and start talking." 
He was formerly athletic director for the Catholic Youth Organization in metropolitan New York City, in whicli . capacity Jack supervised the organiza­tion of athletic activities for 100,000 youngstere who are members of 253 
CYO units. 
Jack is well-known in the East as a starter e.\traordinar)'—requiring preci­
sion and exactness—at indoor and out­"Red" Smith, ND alumnus and famed door track meets. He was once quoted columnist: former Irish football players, as stating tliat he'd "start anyone but Angelo Bertelli, George Veigara and girl riuineis—women instinctively are Johnny Law; Tom Meany of Colliers; against any activity in which they Jimmy Dolan of CBS; Garry Schu­can't have the last word." macher, NY Giants baseball team; Joe 
More than 400 guests attended the Byrne, ND alumnus and lay trustee; party held for Jack in the iSTY Ath­and a host of others. Al Perrine •was letic Club. He received many gifts chairman of the event and his commit­
including an air conditioning unit and tee was composed of Biil Fallon, Dan a silver plated starter's pistol. Some of Cunningham, Bud Mulvey, George Ol­the prominent people present included: vany, Greg Rice and John Duffy. 
Left to right: Walter "Red" Smith, George Vergara, club president Tony Earley, Jack lavelle, Jack Mara and Bill Fallon. 
— .S5a '^ 

Prof. James A. Rc>ii!ers (center), founder and director of Notre Dame's Lobund Institute, loads equipment housing gemifrec animak into a specially designed Studebakcr station wagon. Harold £. Churchill (left), president of Studebakcr-Packard Corp., and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. (right), Notre Dame president, inspect the vehicle which makes it possible for gemifree animals to be transported long distances for the first time. The unique animals, a\-ailable until now only to scientists working at Notre Dame, can travel under laboratory conditions in the station wagon which was designed jointly by university scientists and Studebaker engineers. 

Special Car Transports Germf ree Animals 
Following the presentation of a spe­transportation, it was necessary for sci­cially constructed Studebaker station entists carrying out research projects wagon by Harold E. Churchill to Rev. with these unique animals to travel to Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., and Notre Dame, since Lobund was the Professor James A. Reyniers, director first to breed germ-free animals and is of Notre Dame's Lobund Institute, the the only source of supply for them. first long-distance transportation of Professor Rej-niers, founder of Lo­germ-free animals for medical and bio­bund Institute, termed the development logical research was b^im. of the vehicle, "the key that opens the 
The animals are used to study radia­way for widespread availability of tion sickness, cancer, tooth decay and germ-free life." a host of other ailments. Th e special Studebaker station 
The initial major trip, which wll wagon was built from specifications cover approximately 2,000 miles from developed jointly by the research sci­South Bend to Washington, D. C, and entists of the Lobund Institute and return, will test the specialized equip­Studebaker's research eng^eers. The ment installed in the vehicle and its vehicle required sL\ months to com­effect on the animals which have been plete. It is designed to provide trans­
raised imder controlled, germ-free con­portation under laboratory conditions ditions by Lobund. The Studebaker for the e-x-perimental animals from the station \vagon already has been used 
Institute to hospitals and laboratories to haul germ-free animak on short 
throughout the nation. Animals to be test drives. 
shipped vary in size from laboratory Prior to development of a means of rats to dogs and monkeys. 
Each animal is placed in a closed cage provided with fiber glass air filters. The station wagon must provide a con­stant supply of temperature and humidity-controlled air in the vehicle, and a separate supply of sterilized air under pressure to the germ-free com­partments through a second set of fil­ters. An air exhaust S)'stem prevents excessive moisture condensation in the animals' section. 
The animals are raised in a ster­ilized atmosphere where their environ­ment is constantly regulated. Men ^vorking with the animals must either handle them with rubber gloves at­tached into the sides of a sterile com­partment or be completely covered by an air-tight suit with an air supply that is separate from the purified air breathed by the animals. 
Because the animals are genn-free, precise and controlled experiments on the effects of specific germs can be carried out. 
New Seminary 

(continued from page 2) Father Wilson was associate editor of the Catholic Boy magazine. 
The first Catholic priest to be licensed as an airplane pilot in thb country was Father Joe Rick, now assistant director of the Development Office. He was formerly Reli^ous Su­perior for the Vicariate of Dacca and served 27 years as a missionar)' in Pakistan. Father Rick received a bach­elor of literature degree from Notre» Dame in 1924. , 
Father Lane was both director of studies and business manager at Notre , Dame High School, Niles, 111., prior to liis present assignment. He also was president of King's College, ^Vilkcs-, Barre, Pa., and vice-president of St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. 1 
Reverend John J. Ca>-anaugh 
Notre Dame Foundation 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear Father: 
I am enclosing a small check for 
this year which I truly wish could be 
bigger. I am now in Graduate School, 
so it's about the best I can do. 
I jokingly like to think that Fm 
doing more than the Ford Founda­
tion. After all, they liquidated only ' H 
a small percentage of their total as­
sets, whereas I'm sending the bulk 
of my savings. 
Best regards to all. -,'52 

14 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
performed the formal act of enthrone­ment by escorting Bishop Lane to the 

New Bishop of Rockford 
altar and placing in his left .hand the tall, gold crozier signifying the bishop's duty to protect his people. Bishop 

Graduated in 1932 Class 
Lane said the solemn Pontifical High 
A Notre Dame alumnus was recently installed as bishop of the Catholic dio­cese of Rockford, Illinois. His Excel­lency the Most Rev. Loras T. Lane, '32, became the spiritual leader of the eleven-coimty northern Illinois diocese in ceremonies at St. James' Cathedral in Rockford last November. 
Bishop Lane, a native of Cascade, Iowa, graduated from Notre Dame with a bachelor of Philosophy degree in foreign commerce. While an under­graduate, he was active in extracur­ricular activities, serving as president of the commerce forum and the Iowa Club and earning varsity status on the cross-country team. He later decided to enter the priesthood. After study­ing at the North American College in Rome, he was ordained and assigned to the Church of the Nativity in Dubuque, Iowa. He later u'as made a monsignor and served as Defender of the Matri­monial Bond for the Archdiocese of Dubuque. In 1949, His Holiness Pope Pius XII bestowed the title of Domes­tic Prelate upon the Cascade priest; two years later, the Pope designated him Titular Bishop of Bencenna and Auxiliary of Dubuque. He was conse­crated on August 20, 1951, and soon thereafter took over the presidency of Loras Collie in Dubuque. 
Bishop Lane's work in diocesan ad­ministration, particularly church and school activities, is considered excellent. While in Dubuque, he proved his abil­ity as a leader in academic affairs: Loras Collie attained a record enroll­ment, e-Kcept for the years just after AVorld War II, under his guidance. A million-dollar dormitory was imder­taken and paid for during his five-year tenure. 
The sixth bishop in the 104-year history of the Illinois diocese. Bishop Lane \vas accorded heart-\varming welcomes by the people of the diocese who congregated at the raihoad station to greet the new Ordinary. A cele­bration and parade, witnessed by thou­sands, marked his arrival at Rockford after the 90-mile whbtle-stop train trip from Dubuque to the Diocesan See. 
The actual installation ceremony, which occurred on November 20, the feast of St. James the Greater, titular saint of the diocese, was attended by many archbishops, bishops, monsignori, and priests. His Eminence Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chi­cago, presided over the ceremonies and 

His Eminence Samuel Cardinal Stritch and the Most Rev. Loras Lane, '32, at ceremonies when Bishop Lane was installed as Bishop of Rockford. 
Mass while Cardinal Stritch deUvered the sermon. 
The ividowed mother of the new bishop, Mrs. Thomas J. Lane of Cas­cade, his t%vo sisters and three brothers wtnessed the event. More than 40 archbishops and bishops, including a prelate from the British West Indies and a bishop of the eastern Byzantine rite of the Catholic Church, were in attendance. 
Follo\ving the ceremom'es, a luncheon was held at Rockford's Faust Hotel for visiting dignitaries, clergy, and friends of the ne\vly installed bishop. Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C, and Rev. Harold Riley, C.S.C, represented Notre Dame at the event. 
DUPONT PROVIDES RESEARCH GRANT 
The DuPont Company has awarded Notre Dame a $4,000 grant and re­newed a post-graduate teaching assist­antship in a million dollar aid-to­education program benefiting 122 col­leges and universities throughout the country. The natiomvide philan­thropic program of the chemical firm is geared to help educational institu­tions maintain high quality of teaching and at the same time develop new teachers. 
Notre Dame was awarded the $4,000 grant in • recognition of its "strength in undergraduate chemical or technical education." Of the grant, $2,500 is earmarked "to strengthen the teaching of chemistry" while $1,500 is intended "to aid the teaching of other subjects which contribute to the edu­cation of scientbts and engineers." At the university's discretion, the grant may be used for the purchase of equip­ment or books, attendance at scientific meetings, visiting lecturers, or other purposes. 
The post-graduate teaching assist­antship awarded to the Notre Dame chemistry department provides $2,400 a year for an unmarried man or $3,000 for a married man plus an award of $500 to the university and payment of tuition and fees. The Du Pont Company stipulates that the grant is to be given to an "outstanding gradu­ate student with two years' experience as a half-time'teaching assistant. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 15 
Enviable Record for Debaters During Twelve Year Period 
By JERRY BRADY, '58 
Saturday afternoon, December 1, a 
big, well-dressed man pushed tlirough 
a crowded ixjom at Butler Universit)' 
in Indianapolis, walked to a small 
stage and raised his arms to silence 
sLxty chattering debaters. The group 
became quiet for the first time since the 
tournament had begun two days before. 
"I have the results with me," said 
the speaker, Butler's debate coacli 
Mack Cripe, host for the Midwest 
Novice Debate Championship. "This 
may be a new experience for you 
folks, but for me it's an old stor)'," he 
said. 
Cripe announced the awards for best 
speakers: Notre Dame's freshmen won 
the first five places. He announced the 
team winner: Notre Dame, widi SK-
teen \'ictories, no defeats. "I've had 
four tournaments down here in three 
years and Notre Dame has been first in 
all four of them. You'd think they'd 
at least give us a trophy for a book­
end," Cripe concluded. 
The plight of the Butler coach is not a novel one, for Notre Dame has been cornering the debate cup market in die Midwest for the past dozen years. This season, for example, the team beat out 60 other schools for the Midwest Freshman-Sophomore Championship at Chicago a week after the Butler vic­tory. At the same time a group of upperclassmen were placing second in a tournament at Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame, in debate as in foot­ball, is not a stay-at-home team. On November 8-9 tliey placed third at the University of South Carolina and closed out the first semester by t)'ing for first at Wake Forest, December 14-15. By Christmas time Notre Dame had spoken in 248 forensic events in six states, won approximately 86% of the time and raised the twelve year record to 1628 victories, 329 defeats. 

The reason for this consistently top­flight performance is no accident, nor is it part of a giant recruidng or schol­arship program. The answer to success lies in understanding a combination of , key factors: teamwork, organization, knowledge, support and competition. 
"This is a team, not a club!" Coach Leonard Sommer reminds the 60 
students who turn out for the first 
meeting. And through the year it 
stays a team, but not in quite the way 
it might be expected. Varsity positions 
are never given; there are no first, 
second or third teams and no one fails 
to make it. Everj'one is given a chance 
to improve if he wblies to remain on 
the squad. 
The best example is Dick Schiller, 
last year's president. From a mediocre 
debater he progressed to rank as the 
seventh best in the country. 
Following the first general meeting, freshmen come to special sessions to learn debate technique; they are each given a chance to speak twice before actual debating begins. From then on debates are held at least once, often twice a day. 
Speakers Need Few Notes 
By the end of the year extensive work and research has given the de­bater a knowledge of the question and a suitcase full of material. In 1956 when Schiller and Richard Ninneman entered the finals of die Notre Dame Invitational, one of the country's top tournaments, they carried two large briefcases of subject matter with them. But they knew their topic so well that between them they only jotted down 20 words to prepare for opponents arguments and the material they would use in rebuttal. Embarrassingly, they won their own tournament. 
Another reason for a winning record is that for every man who participates in a tournament there are ten at home who would like to take his place— competition is keen indeed! More than 40 are out for debate annually. 
Debaters have always been among the top students in their class and this year ten of the eleven sophomore, jimior and senior participants are on the Dean's List. 
All of these factors—^a good victory average, plenty of work and lots of competition—give the debating repre­sentative a pride in himself and in his school. The'all-time Notre Dame de­bating record "speaks" for itself! ­

16 ,. Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 

N. D. Alumnus Wins Rhodes Scholarship 
Dennis V. Moran, '53, Tucson, Ari­
zona, has been awarded a Rhodes 
Scholarship for graduate study at Ox­
ford Universit)' in England. 

He is the second Notre Dame man to become a Rhodes scholar recently. Donald Sniegowski, Toledo, Ohio, who \ was graduated last June, currently is studjdng for an advanced degree in literature at O.xford. Among the quali­fications required of Rhodes Scholar­ship winners are "literary and scholastic ability and attainments" as well as "physical vigor, as shown by a fond-' ness for sports." 
During most of his high school years he studied at Holy Cross Seminary on the campus. Prior to entering Notre Dame, Moran attended St. Michael's Collie, Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he won athletic honors. He majored in modem languages at Notre Dame, ^vas graduated with honors and has since completed a year of graduate study at the University of Arizona. 
A plaque honoring the late Charles E. "Gus" Dorais, great Notre Dame quarter-
bade in 1910-13 and who, with Knute Rockne, is credited with the fonvard pass play in football, was unveiled in Wiscon­sin's Hall o( Fanie. The ceremony was attended by Mrs. Dorais; her daughters, Mrs. Joan Robinson and Mrs. Dorothy Mulcrone, both of Detroit, Mich.; and her sons, Tom of Detroit and Bill of Wabash, \ Ind. Notre Dame alumni in the area spon­sored the plaque and Charles O'Neill, '27, Milwaukee, Wis., was chairman of the Notre Dame committee in charge of the ', 
event. 

Florida Alumni Convention 

Notre Dame Alumni, traveling in the vicinity of Ft. Lauderdale in the early part of May, 1957, may be interested in details of the local club's Third Annual State Conven­tion for Notre Dame alumni and friends. 
Sponsors—^Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale and Notre Dame Foimdation of Florida. 
Dates—May 3, 4, 5, 1957. 

Place—Sea Ranch Hotel, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Open to Notre Dame alumni. Foundation members and their wives. . 
Cost—Entire convention $30.00 per person, taxes and tips included. (The Sea Ranch Hotel reserves the right to assign another person to room of single registrants.) 
Deposit—Check in full amount to eliminate bookkeeping. (Returnable in full if you must cancel before April 15th, 1957; after March 15, 1957, $5.00 per person will be held and balance returned.) 
What you receive—Friday . . . Room, Dinner, Midnight Barbeque. Saturday . . . Room, Breakfast, Lunch, Cocktail Party, Universal 
N.D. Night Banquet and Dance. Sunday . . . Breakfast and Buffet Limcheon. 
Sole Notre Dame Convention use of the Sea Ranch Hotel, including private beach, four tennis courts, four shuffleboard courts, putting green, swimming pool, cabanas, etc. 
Note: Check in time for rooms is 5 p.m. Friday, May 3, 1957. Ear­lier arrivals may use lockers for swimming, tennis, etc. This is again a no profit affair for Notre Dame people. If you were present last year, nothing further need be said. If not you have probably heard what a wonderful time you missed. Reservations will again be on a first come basis and only 95 rooms arc available. 

It Runs in the Family 

The sons of Tim Calvin, '16, Henr)' Hasley, '28, Tom Medland, '30, and 
• Ray Miller, '14, were recipients of ma­jor degrees conferred upon them by the Knights of Columbus. The sons as well as fathers attended the Com­munion Breakfast and degree work held at Mishawaka, Ind. 
Notre Dame Foundation staff members attended a series of meetings in the campus office on Jan. 14-15-16. Led by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director, plans were discussed for the future. Seated, left to right: Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong; J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations; Father Ca>-anaugh; Father Thomas O'Donnell, Associate Director of the Foundation; and Miss Clara Golabowski, Office Manager and Statistician. Standing, left to right: John Cackley, Alumni Office; James E. Murphy, Public Information Director; James W. Frick, Foundation Area Director in midwest and southeast; Allan Powers, Foun­dation Area Director in midwest and northwest; John S. MacCauley, Foundation Area Director in northeast and midwest; F. J. McCarthy, Foundation Director in New York City; Richard Bowes, Foundation Area Director in Chicago and southwest. 


Cause and Effect Via THE ALUMNUS 
The City Council of New Rochelle, quite certain that the magazine had 
N. Y., recently announced the unani­featured an individual serving in this mous appointment of Edward G. Con-capacity in a Southwest municipality. roy, '30, of San Antonio, Texas, as city After doing some research, it was dis­manager. Last year, the Notre Dame covered that Conroy was the person ALUMNUS featured Ed Conroy as a about whom Vergara had inquired. "Spodight Alumnus." Several months Ed's address was forwarded to the ago. Mayor George Vergara, '25, of mayor and on January 1 his appoint­
New Rochelle, wrote the Alumni Of­ment became effective following a suc­fice and stated that the city was in 
cessful tenure as city manager in San need of a new manager and he was 
Antonio. 
Left to right: Ed Conroy, city manager of New Rochelle; Mayor George Vergara; and outgomg city manager Aaron Simmons. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 17 
r > * 


Hawkins, Soph, Stars on 1957 Irish Basketball Quintet 
Coach johnny Jordan, hoping to guide his baskcieei-s back to court prominence after last years mediocre sliouing (nine wins, 15 losses), nuist get along without the sen-ices of Lloyd Aubrey. Holder of the Notre Dame indi\-idual season scoring record, Aub­rev graduated last June along with two otlier consistent stanei-s, Captain John Fannon and Bill Weinian. 
The squad is not without vetei-ans, however. Five monogram winners, led bv two-time letter-winner John Smyth, and several reser\-es provide a well-bal­anced group of scorei-s and reboundei-s. Lustre has been added in the pci-son of Tom Hawkins, a sophomore jumping-jack. 
Smwh is this years captain, and de­ser\-edlv so. He was second only to Aubrev in scoring last season and led the club in rebounds. At 6'5" and 225 pounds, he's hard to outmaiicuver im­der the boards. Smyth is occupying Aubrey's pivot position after two pre­vious years at forward. He was named the Most Valuable Player in the Sugar Bowl Tourney last year. While at De-Paul Academy in Cliicago, John cap­tained both the football and ba.sket­ball squads. 
Hawkins is officially 6'5", but his phenomenal jumping ability enables him to outleap taller opponents. His spectacular scoring and rebounding have caught the fancy of fans at home and away, especially in New York City, where he canned 35 against Manhat­tan in the Holiday Festival Finals. He stunned Michigan State with a per­sonal ban-age of 16 points in tlic first ten minutes of the second half, ending up with 34 for the evening. Hawkins, another Chicagoan, attended Parker High in the AVindy City. 
A junior letterman from Philadel­phia, Bob Dcvine, is in his second year as a starting guard for the Irish. De-vine played 943 of a possible 985 min­utes last season to lead tlie team in that department. He was third in scor­ing with a 13.2 average, second in field goal percentages with 40.4, and led the club with 72.7'Jh from tlie foul line. Devinc is a philosophy major. 
Joe Morelli, a senior from Albany, 
N. Y.. is a 6'!" letter-winner whose ver­.satility is one of Joidan's big assets in a pinch. Morelli has adajated himself to the forward position this year after being a rcscr\-e guard for two seasons, and has made up for any height de­ficiency by outpositioning and outjump­ing taller opponents. 
Returning from two years w-ith Uncle Sam is Tom Sullivan, who saw action with the 1951-52 and 1952-53 teams. Sullivan, a steady backcourt man with an accurate outside push shot, can be counted on as an experienced floor leader. 
The hustle of John McCanhy has pushed him into prominence after a year as a reser\-e foi-ward. McCarthy, an honor student in the College of Arts and Letters, earned a monognun last year, ranking fifth in placing time with 394 minutes. The 6'5" product of Mt. Cannel High in Chicago was also fifth in scoring with 121 points. 
Ed Gleason, who showed signs of greatness in clutch pcrfonnances last year, is a junior letter-winner who could possibly be a standout backcourt operative. A 6'1" guard, Gleason has 
1957 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 28—Purdue at Lafayette 
Oct. 5—Indiana at Notre Dame 12—Army at Philadelphia 19—Open 26—Pittsburgh at Notre Oanie 
Nov. 2—^Na\-y at Notre Dame 
9—Michigan State at Lansing 16—Oklahoma at Norman 23—Iowa at Notre Dame 30—So. Cal. at Notre Dame 
Dec 7—So, Methodbt at Dallas 

good speed and an effective set shot. 
Rounding out the squad are sopho­mores Gene Duffy, Mike Ireland (son of Coach George Ireland, '36, of Loy­ola U., Chicago), and Tom Rcinhart, junior Jim Williams, and senioi-s Jack Bedan, Hank Luepke, and Chuck ^Vit­tenburg. 
Physical Fitness Study Is Project of Research 

In the past school year three Teach­ing Fellows in the Department of Ph)-sical Education (Dale Harjjer, Rob­eit Hani-ahan, and Eugene Loveless), under the ditection of Di-. John F. X. R\-an, conducted a physical fitness study of a group of freshmen to com­pare them to a similar gioup of 1937. That year Di-. John A. Scannell, head of the Depat-tment of Physical Educa­tion, cai-ried on rather extensive tests of the entei-ing freshmen. 
In the age-height-weight factors it was found tiiat today's freshman is three months younger (18 years, three months vs. 18 years, six months), 1.78 inches taller (70.68 inches vs. 68.9), and 16.15 pounds heavier (162.15 vs. 
146) than his 1937 counterpart. 

ALL-OPPONENT ELEVEN INCLUDES 'THIRTEEN' MEN 
Three players each from Michigan State, Oklalioma and Purdue head the 1956 Noti-e Dame all-opponent team. Hawkeyes placed two men, and Pitts­burgh and Nonh Carolina each had one representative. 
As a result of a three way tie at one halfback spot, a thirteen man team was selected. Tommy McDonald of Oklahoma easily clinched one berth but there was a tie between Ed Sutton, North Carolina, and Clarence Peaks and Dennis Mendyk, of Michigan State, with eleven votes each for the other halfback post. 
The remainder of the team: Joe Walton, Pittsburgh, and Lamar Lundy,­Pui-due, ends; Ed Gray, Oklalioma and .•Me.x Kai-i-as, Iowa, tackles: Dan Cur­rie, Michigan State, and Ed Voytek, Purdue, guards: Jeri-j' Tubbs, Okla­homa, center: Ken Ploen, Iowa, quar­terback; and Mel Dillard, Purdue, full­back. 
Oklahoma was selected by the Irish players as the best team they played. 
J8 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar., 1957 


O'Neill Is Guest Speaker at 37th Annual Grid Banquet 
The 37th .Annual Testhnonial Foot­ball I5anc]uct, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley and honoring tiie Fighting Irish and its coaches of 1956, was lield in the Uni­versity Dining Hall on Dec. 6. .Ap­proximately 700 people attended the adair which was featured by talks from prominent guests and the announce­ment of monogram winners of this year's squad. 
Joe Boland, '27, famed Sports Di­rector of the Soiuh Bend Tribune's radio and television stations, scived as toastmaster. The welcoming address was given by William J. Gibbons, presi­dent of the St. Joseph aliunni group. 
Mayor Edward F. "Babe" Voorde, '36, represented the City of South Bend on the speaker jjrogram. The mayor as­sured the team of the good wishes and affection of the people in this commu­nity. -Approximately 1500 local citizens had gathered at the aiiport several days prior to the banquet to welcome the team on its return from the Southern California game. 
Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., "36, president of the Notre Dame .Alumni Association, journeyed from Midland, Texas, to represent the 26,500 Fighting Irish alimini at this year's banquet. Joe told the teain that "we arc proud of you" and in recognizing the poor won 
Coach Terry Brcnnan shakes hands with one of the principal speakers at the .Annual Civic Football Testimonial Banquet. The gent's name is Duffy Daugherty of .Michisan State. This event is sponsored by the Notre Dainc Club of St. Joseph Valley and honored the 1956 Fighting Irish and coaching staff. 
and lost record that no other place in the sports world does the "flame of desire to win bum more fiercely." He said that two questions were impor­tant: 1) what happened, and 2) is Notre Dame deemphasizing. Joe de­clared that he would let experts more qualified than he answer these ques­tions but he did stress that there is a "lot to learn in losing"—and the most important lesson is "how not to lose." He mentioned that football is always an integrated, appreciated part of the University and not a separate, unnatu­ral segment of it. Joe concluded by emphasizing to the team that "you should always recall with great pride your participation in sports at Notre • Dame because you are representing the greatest University in the world." 
Nils V. "Swede" Nelson of Boston, Mass., former head coach of the Col­lege All-Stars and well-known after-dinner speaker, delighted the audience with "tall stories" and humorous side­lights on hb career as a coach. Rev. Edmond P. Joyce, C.S.C., '37, execu­tive vice-president of the University and chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, was the Univer­sity's official representative on the speaking program. 
Hugh "Duffy" Daugherty, head coach of Michigan State, was an honored guest for the second time in three years. Coach Daugherty recounted experi­ences as a player and coach and stressed the great and friendly rivalry between Michigan State and Notre Dame. Sports Publicist Charlie Calla­han introduced members of the press, and representatives from the television and radio field. 
Coach Terry Brennan, '49, thanked those who had supported the team this year, and Director of Athletics Ed­ward "Moose" Krause, '34, announced recipients of 1956 football monograms. Don Fisher, '38, was general chairman of the event and his committee con­sisted of: AVilliam Gibbons, '38, Joseph Hannan, '39, Robert Lehman, '44, Richard Cleary, '50, Robert Cahill, '34, Charlie Callalian, '38, Joe Doyle, '49, Jerry Hickey, '41, Charies Duke, '38 and John Cackley, '37. 
FOOTBALL TICKET INFO 

Detailed information regarding alumn! ticket distribution ivas not complete when the ALUMNUS went to press— watch for story in next issue. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 73.­
BASEBALL SQUAD 






Winter Sports Schedule 
HAS EIGHT VETS 
Led by co-captains Jim Cusack and 


Will Highlight 31 Events 
Elmer Kohorst, the NCAA AU-Amer-

Witli seasonal inclemencies pushing 
the sports scene indoors, tlie so-called 
minor winter sports have been atten­
tion-getters of late. 

The 1957 schedule of Coach Walter 
Langford's fencing team calls for seven 
triangular meets and two dual affairs 
followed by the NCAA Championships 
in late March. Langford has lost 
through graduation tlie ser\'ices of sev­
eral standouts, including former iS^CAA 
cpee champion Don Tadrowski, who 
compiled a three-year record of 76 wins 
and 18 defeats. This year's inexperi­
enced squad, loaded with sophomores 
and juniors, has five lettermen return­
ing. Heading the list is Co-captain 

Denis Hemmerle, who was 35-7 in the 
epee last season. Other monogram-win­
ners are Co-Captain John Ryan and 

Joe Blazina in the foil, sabreman Dick 
Fagon, and Dick Colman in the epee. 
Wrestling Coached by Fallon 

Notre Dame's latest addition to var­sity competition, the wTestling squad, hopes to improve upon its creditable 6-4 showing in its infant season of 1956. Coach Tom Fallon has three returning monogram winners from last year's squad: Captjdn Terry Crowley, senior, 147 pounds; Jack Armstrong, junior, 177 pounds; and Bob Pivonka, junior, 137 pounds. Showing promise are Charles (Buddie) Day, Jim Rankin, Chuck Henzy, Mel Larsen, and Dick Loncar. Fallon, who turns his talents to coaching tlie tennis team in the spring, will guide the matmen through a challenging schedule of ten dual matches and an in\'itational tourna­ment at Wheaton, Illinois. 
Swimming does not as yet have var­sity status at Notre Dame, but the pioneering members of the Swimming Club, under tlie advisorship of Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C., may soon see tlie day when the tankers merit mono­grams. The club, formed last year by interested swimmers on campus, split even in its first season of exhibition meets against varsitj' competition. This year 12 meets are scheduled against Ohio University, Western Michigan, Miami of Oliio, and odier midwestem schools having varsity teams. AVith several outstanding splashers bolstering 

20 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
N. D. TRAmER PASZKIET, '50 

the group, the ND club is aiming for \'arsity recognition in the near future. Coached by Gil Burdick of the Phys­ical Education Department, the swim­mers have as their captain Mike Con­nelly, a senior from Naperville, Illinois. 
Bengal Bouts Finals, March 29 

The Bengal Bouts, now in tlieir 26di year, are once again being sponsored by the campus council of the Knights of Columbus. Under the direction of Dominick J. Napolitano, diis amateur bo.xing program began in October with training for the pre-CIiristmas novice tournament. After some two months of workouts, the open tournament will be climaxed by the Bouts finals on March 
29. Student promoter this year is Ter­r>' Con\%'ay, a senior from Shaker Heights, Ohio. Proceeds benefit the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal. 
Paszkiet Is Named Trainer of the Year' 

Gene Paszkiet of Notre Dame has been chosen "athletic trainer of the year" by the Rockne Club of Kansas City, Mo. 
Paszkiet is scheduled to receive the award at the annual Rockne testi­monial dinner March 4 in Kansas City. A poll of sportswriters and broadcasters voted Paszkiet the honor. 
ican catcher, the 1957 Irish baseball squad looks for an improvement over last years mediocre record. Coach Jake Kline has eight returning letter­men as a solid nucleus for his prom­ising aggregation, which makes its debut in a three-game series with In­diana on April 12 and 13. The sched­ule, not complete at the time this issue went to press, is shaping into a chal­lenging one, with several Big Ten dia­mond powers already lined up. Home­and-home series are scheduled with Purdue, Michigan, Northwestern, West-em Michigan, Great Lakes, and Ohio U. 
Several veterans should provide the strongest pitching staff in recent years. Tom Bujnowski, Charlie Symeon, Hank Bretting, Paul Besser, and Ron Jebavy are the principal hurlers. Cusack, sec­ond in hitting last season, has been brought in from the outfield to play first base. Ed Hurley and Jim Carideo \\'ill be back at second and short, with third base still up for grabs. 

Enter Track Team In 3 Major Relays 

Notre Dame's outdoor track team, faced with a tough spring slate of ma­jor opponents, is being groomed by • Coach Alex Wilson for its first test at the Texas Relaj-s in early April. 
Principal dash men are footballer Lewis, Olympic veteran Foreman, who represented his native Canada at Mel­bourne, and Frank Hall. Booker Rice leads die hurdlers while Bill Keegan is the pacesetter in the 440. 
1957 OUTDOOR TRACK SCHEDULE 
April 5-6—Texas Relays at Austin. April 20—Ohio Relays at Ohio State. • April 26-27—Drake-Penn. Relays. May 4—Missouri at Missouri. May 11—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. May 18—Michigan State at N. D. May 15 or 22—Indiana State meet at 
Purdue. May 25—^Army at N. D. June 8—CCC at Milwaukee. June 14-15—N.C.A.A. at Texas. 



Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—Phoenix—A. Carllon Gilbert, '« , 4710 
E. Wcldon, Phocnbc, Ariz. TttcMn—Kennelll J. Bayly, '50, 306 Fiber BIdg., Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS—Fori .SmilA-Burley Johnston, Jr., '40, Quality Flowers, 925 Garrison, Ft. Smith, Arkansas. 
CALIFORNIA—Ctn(ral—Dr. John W. Frje, '43. 3893 E. Princeton Ave., Fresno, Calif. Los Angeles—Gtmzii R. Meelter, '40, U235 E. Uv e Oak Ave., Arcadia, Calif. iVorfA^rn—Edu-ard F. Mansfield, '34, 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif. 
San Diego—Worry Monahan, *50, 4737 Felton St., San Diego 16, Calif. 
COLORADO—/?«ni«r—Arthur Gregory '37, Suite 800, Denver Club Bldg., Denver, Colo. Southern Colo.—A. Jack Thomas, '49, 3222 Rex St., iPueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT—Conn«/i"CTi( KoHej'—Arthur Mc­Gee, "31, 204 High St., Wallingford, Conn. Naugatuck—^James J. Scigliano, '42, 15 Hewlett St., Watcrbury, Conn. New //atvn—EdwartI A. B>Tnc, '26, 818 Edge­wood .Ave,, Ne%v Haven, Conn. Southwestern—Dr. Vincent Gorman, '45, 5490 Main St., Trumbull, Conn. 
DELAWARE—Charles A. Wolfe. Jr., 312 HoUy Oak Rd., Gwinhurst, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBM—Dr. Matthew J. Sul­livan, '44, 1801 Eye St. N.W., Washington 6, D. C. 
FLORIDA—Cenlraf-Roy B. Laughlin, '4S, 2626 Norfolk Rd., Orlando, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale—}o]ia C. Sulliran, '31, P.O. Box 
418, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Greater Afiomi—Michael Zorovich, '44, 405 N.E. 99lh St.. Miami Shores, Fla. North F/onVa—Richard H. Brodeur, '50, 4638 Ramona St., Jacksonville, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—Ka^- J. Deeb, '48, 1400 
I5th St. No., St. Petersburg, Fla. 
GEORGIA—.4(/<:n(<i—Richard deGolian, '40, P. O. Box 973, Atlanta 1, Ga. 
IDAHO—Francis Neitzel, '23, 9 Jfesa Dr., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Fo/ft-James M. Brady, "29, P.O. Box 581, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS—.4 urora—Robert J. Kearns, '43, 528 Oak Ave., Aurora. Ill, 
Central Illinois—Zifmri G. Coleman, '50, 2147 S. 
Walnut St., Springfield, 111. CAinifo—Robert E. Wright, '42, Box 115, Palos Park, 111. Eastern Illinois—Rabat Morris, '49, 216 E. Prai­rie, Danvflle, lU. 
/o/iVl-Dominic F. Boetto, '44, Suite 421, Chal­strom Bldg., Joliet, 111. Kankakee Valley—^Maynard R. Bissonnette. *53, 640 Beckman Drive, Kankakee, HI. Pforio-John E. Cassidy, Jr., '45, 1100 Jefferson Building, Peoria, 111. 
Rocklord—Trw^ Sweeney, "19, Faust Hotel, 618 
E. State St., Rockford, 111. Southern Cook Coiin/^'—William E. Martin, '49, 308 Shawnee, Park Forest, HI. 
INDIANA—CoIumiJ Dtrtrirf—Tom Clifford, '49, 715 Harrison St., Gary, Ind. Eastern Indiana—^John Marhoefer, Jr., '52, R. 7, Box 309, Munde, Ind. E/lAorl-Austin C. Gildea, '30, 117 W. High St., Elkhart, Ind. Eoansmlle—Fitd Dewes, '43, 640 S. Englewnod, Evansville, Ind. Fort }yayne—J. Thomas O'ReHIy, '44, 335 W. Sherwood Terrace. Indianapolis—^James Rocap, '39, 156 E. Market St., Inoiauapt^is, Ind. Michigan City—Dr. Joseph A. Bergan, '42, - Potta­wattomie Park, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley-ASmam J. Gibbons, '38, 1625 
Belmont, South Bend, Ind. Terre Haute—ftcd G. Christman, Jr., '43, 2878 Mariposa, Terr* Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley-^cd Bumbleburg, 1014 Brown St., Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA—Bur/inslon—Dr. Donal C. Petersen, '42, 511 F & M Bank Bldg., Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—Coindias J. Styets, '48, 634 31st St., Cedar Rapids, la. Des Moines—Robert M. Cannon, '47, 630 39th St., Des Moines, 12, Iowa Dubuque—^Rcv. William Kunsch, '37, Loras Col­lege, Dubuque, la. Tri-Cilies (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—J. Emmett Keenan, '42, 2611 Farnam St., Davenport, fa. 
KASSAS—Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 
2203 College, Topeka, Kansas, ^afiiw—Robert A. McAuliffe, '36, 1307 Court Place, Salina, Kansas. Wichita—Dr. Bernard Crowley, '28, 430 N. Bat-tin, Wichita. Kas. 

KENTUCKY—Joseph P. Harmon, '25, 1203 Falcon Dr., Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA—Jrt-Lo-rM—George J. Despot, '45, 206 Louisiana Bank Bldq.. Shreveport. La. New Orleans—Pater L. Hilbert, '50, 1216 Calhoun St., New Orleans. La. 
MARYLAND—Boflimorir—John IL Wieman, '49, 1109 Newfield Rd., Baltimore 7, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS—BojlDn-Richard HerUhy. '-W. 5 Josephine Rd., West Afedlortf, Jfass. 
MICHIGAN—Bod/e Creek—Robert Breska, '43, Rt. 1, Box 151, Battle Creek, iCch. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. Dearborn—Clement E. Constantino, '46, 3841 Syra­cuse, Dearborn, ^Iich. Detroit—James J. Byrne, '43, 17585 Oak Dr., De­troit 21, Mich. fCnl-Robert J. Sibilskj-, '42, 2302 Mountain Ave., Flint, Mich. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Charles W. Duffx, '37, 901 Chippewa S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan. //laxolfta/nni/-Robert F. Voelker, '39, Box 88, Stephenson, Mich. 
Jackson—^John Lindberg, 50, 853 Woodbine Blvd., Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo—Paul O'Connell, '44, 1515 Kingston, Kalamazoo, Mich, .(fonroe-Charles J. Golden, '48, 33 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon-Joseph Keusch, '43, 1311 Hendrick KtL, Muskegon, Mich. Saginaw Valley—William A. Hendrick, '44, 616 
S. Washington Ave., Saginaw, Mich. Top of Michigan — Edward L. ^foloney, '17, 416 East Slate St., Chebo>-gan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA—Pain Ci/iw-Harold J. Sodcrberg, '49, 2301 St. Anthony Blvd., Minneapolis, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI—James Dougherty, '49, 917 ArKng­ton, Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI—Konjnr City—(Mo. and Kans.)—Rus­sdl Fanell, '48, 1006 Grand Ave., Kansas City, Mo. St. Louis—Donald A. Dohenv, '46, No. 6 Conway Rd., R.R. 3, Box 400-A, Frontcnac, Creve Coeur 24, .Mo. 
NEBRASKA—OmoAo and Council Bluffs — Herb Sampson, '50, 541 South 69th St., Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY—Cen/ro/—Gilbert AugusUne, '32, 222 Kearny Ave., Perth Amhoy, N. J. New Jersey—Robert Joyce, '50, 16 Keyes St., Florham Park, X. J. 
South Jersey—l.Ustt J. Campanella, '49, 107 E. 
Matlison Ave.. CoUingswood 7, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO—Louis C. Lujan, '24, lOM Simms Bldg., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK—Buffofo—Ralph F. Else, '34, 278 Voorhees Ave., Buffalo 16, N. Y. Capital District—C. F. Kecan, Jr., '27. 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, SUngerlands, N. Y. Cenlral—li. Philip Shean, '31, 125 Dewittshire Rd., Dewitt 14, N. Y. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Joseph A. Rorick, '42, 27 
Monell Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—Dr. Daniel C. Shaughnessy, *30, 115 Green St., Herkimer, N. Y. New York Cilji—Anthony F. Earley, Jr., '47. c /o Lesh'c and Co., 1430 Broadway, New York, N. Y. Rochester^Jack Nye Duffcy, '35, 1028 Sibley Tower Bldg., Rochester, N. Y. Schenectady—\S\K:sm G. Leonard, '49, 1124 Gar­ner Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. Southern Tier-Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. 
Triple Ci/ies—George I. Haines, '42, 126 Laurel 
Ave., Binghamton, N. Y.. 
NORTH D.\KOTA — William Daner, '33, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO—.4itron—Thomas Botzum, '49, 121 Avondale Dr., Akron. Ohio. Citn'on—Louis L. Singer, '48, 2745 Cleveland, N.W., Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati—Robert C. Bomkamp, '49, 851 Tweed Ave., Cincinnati 26, Ohio. Cleveland—T. Edward Carey, '34, 18843 Ingle­wood Rcl., Rocky River, Ohio. Co/um6uj—John W. Gordon. Jr., '42, 1069 Ken-wick Rd., Columbus 9, Ohio. 
XJaylon—Frank E, McBride, Jr., '30, 4054 Royal 
Oak Dr.. Dayton 9. Ohio. 
Northwestern—^Willtam R. Shanahan, *5Q, 376 W. 
Grand Ave., Lima, Ohio. 
Ohio Valley—Robert Sincavich, '50, 2079 Louisa Ave, Wheeling, W. Va. Tolei/o—Richard D . Donoghue, Jr., '49, 2822 Sherbrook Road, Toledo, Ohio. youngstawn—JL Griff .Allen, '44, 2230 Burma Drive, Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA—Okfo&oina Cily—Charles McFarUnd, '39, Rt. 10. Box 616, Oklahoma City, Okla. Tufiii—Robert D. Sheehan, '42, 2168 S. Owasso Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON—Hugh V. Lacey, Jr., '45. 1308 S.W. Alder St., Portland 5, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA—<:«i<raf Pennsylvania — Willjam 
S. Clear. '30. 503 Coleridge Ave., Altoona, P ^ Erie—John S. Young, '51, 3016 State St., Apt. 1, Erie, Pa. Harrisburg—Jaba W. Davis, '32, 5513 River Dr., Hanisburg, Pa. Lehigh Valley—Dr. Louis T. Gabriel, Jr., '36, 
R.D. 1, Center Valley, Pa. Monongakela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., BrownsviUe, Pa. Philadelphia—Wo\t Grothaus, Jr., '30, Box 73, Narberth, Pa. Pittsburgh—Leo J. Vogel, Jr.. '49. 286 Magnolia PI.. Pittsburgh. Pa. Seranton—Johtl A. Kramer. '45. 1705 Delaware St.. Duimiore. Pa. 
Wilkes-Barre—John C. Brady. MJ).. '36. 228 
Horton St.. Wilkes-Barre. Pa. Ifaiininr/iorl—Harry J. Krimm. '28. 1215 Walnut Williamsport. Ku 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSEITS— James E. Murphy. '49, 41 Washington St., War­ren, R. I. 
SOUTH CAROLINA-George S. Nichols, Jr., '49, 1416 West Palmetto, Florence, S. C. 
TENNESSEE—Chatlanoati—Tboniai B. Owen, '35, 4004 WDey Ave. Memplm—Joseph Signiago, '48, 945 Colonial Rd., Atempbis, Teim. 
TEXAS—Ddfoj—Jacob M. Reichenstein, Jr., '42, 3121 Grand. Dallas. Texas. El Paso—Vf. Gorman Brock, '49, 2319 Tremont St., El Paso, Te-xas. /fotutoR-Donald F. O'Brien, '42. 900 Lovett Bonlevard. Houston 6, Texas. 
Rip Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 W. 
Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. San Antonio—Jesx B. Poston, '49, 2833 Roosevelt Ave., San Antonio, Texas. 
VIRGINIA—Fra.nk A. Crovo, Jr., '51, 3230 Edge­wood Ave., Richmond. Tirfeao/er—Philip L. Russo, '49, 8107 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON-^;iobine—Edward J. Bethke. '28, 2411 E. Nord, Spokane, Wash. Iferfern-Bernard J. Lenoue, '33, 914 21st Ave. No.. Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINM-Comelius T. Desmond. '51. 1908 7th Ave.. St. Albans. W. Va. Central—John D. Julian, '40, P. O. Box 2063, Claiksbuzs, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN—Fox iffoer KoHej>—Richard A. Stack, '48, 1306 W. Cedar St., Appleton. Wis. Green Soy—Jack A. Vaioisi, '50, 349 S. Washing­ton St., Green Bay, Wis. LaCrorie—Henry C. Funk, '50, 328 N. 26th Place, LaCrosse, Wis. Mttwaukee—iUik A. Pfaller, '43, 7613 W. State St., MHwaukee 13, Wis. South Central-Paul Brannan, '34, 1318 Diake St., Madison, Wis. ^outAeiuferTt—Thomas W, Carroll, '51. 917 Main St.. Racine. Wis. 
HAWAH—Harry A. Medeiros, '53, 424 Niu St., Apt. A-1, Honolulu 13, Hawaii. 
FOREIGN CLUBS: 
Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane. C.S.C., '24, (key man) Moieau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Fiikistan. Conoifii—Paid H. LaFiamboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Maiula—^Enrique Btias, '37, c/ o Roxas y Com­pania, Soriano Bldg., Manila, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico Cty. Panama—^William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 66, An-con. Canal Zotie. Peru—^Andres Malatesta, *23, Cailloma 376, Lima. Peru, South America. Rome—^Vincent G. McAIoon. '34 (key man). Hotel Alicorni. Via ScossaC3\-alli 11, Rome, Italy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 21 
campus club, program. 
The dance was held at the Trap and Field Club on December 27. A gala time was enjoyed by all 

S-Trr, 
\v-ho attended. 
Let's hope that the New Year brings blessings and happiness to all! —DICK LEOUS, '50 SCQ-. 
,11 
Calumet District 
The club's annual Christmas dinncr-dance was 
held at the Woodmar Country Club, Hammond, 
Akron Boston on December 27. Alumni, students and friends 
ot the University attended this successful affair. 
Approximately sixty Akron area Alumni and thor T%vo events that have been very successfully held ^^'ives attended Mass and received Conununion in a by the club in recent months include the annual body on Friday e\-ening, December 7tfi, at St. football dance and rally on October 26 and Uni­Vincent's Church. The Mass •i^'as followed fay a versal Communion Sunday on December 9. Tlic 

Canada 
dinner at Jacomim's. FATHER 0*NEIL ot St. dance was at the Hampshire House and it was the 
Vincent's was guest speaker and he discussed "Some first time that we have had a combination dance On December 9th we held our Communion Break­Problems in Catholic Education.'* and rally. 
fast in conjunction with the Universal Alumni Our Club sponsored a lundicon for the wives Chaimianncd by BILL DACEV, the Communion Communion Breakfast. Our chaplain, FATHER of Alumni in December at the University Club. 
Breakfast \vas very successfiU. It was held in PAUL KINGSTON celebrated Mass at the Newman During tlie lundieon the ladies addressed and Blessed Sacrament Chapel of the Holy Cross Club cliapcl. Wc had breakfast at tlie Berkeley mailed invitations for the Annual Christmas Ball. Catlicdral, Boston, and Father Cornelius Donovan Hotel. \Vc didn't have a guest speaker, but held 
The Annual Christmas Ball yyas held December cclcbmted tlie ^lass. Breakfast was scr\'cd at the an informal meeting at Breakfast. 29th at the Sheraton-Mayflmver Hotel. Frankic Vendomo Hotel with Father William Roclie and 
Preparations are under way for our Universal 
Rc>'no1d's Orclicstra pro\-ided the music and danc­John Gavin as the guest speakers. Other members Notre Dame Night meeting. ing was from 10:00 till 2:00 a.m. A pleasant eve­of the committee included ART BRADY, JOHN 
—EDWARD G. MULa\IR, SeQ-. ning was had by all. SULLIVAN, DICK LAMERE and DICK HER-Akron will celcfcratc "Universal Jfotro Dame LIHV. Night" on Tuesday, April 30th. HARRY STUHL-

Central California 
DREHER, member of the Four Horsemen back­
ficld and now an catecutive witli U. S. Steel, will .\t the Nov. 30 meeting of tlic Central California ibe the S"**t speaker. BufFalo Notre Dame Club, DR. JOHN W. FRYE was •—BOB KAPISH, Secj-. 
elected president for tiie new two-year terra, and _ 
Universal' Notre Dame Commumon Sunday was tlic undersigned was elected secretary-treasurer. "^ 
Atlanta held December 2 and as usual was a huge success. Dr. Frye is a local surgeon and graduated in 1943. j
Breakfast was scrx'ed after ifass at tlie Sheraton 
—HITOH SCHADLE. *52. Seo". 1 Hotel. Chaplain SIMION GARDNER, C.S.C., 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Atlanta had a meeting 

celebrated the Mass. BERNIE BIRD was toast-
Friday, November' 23, at >4'hich time a new slate 
master and Rev. DENNIS SUGHRUE, C.S.C. 
of officers •was elected for a period of two years. 

Central New Jersey 
was the guest speaker. FRANK GAGLIONE and 
Also in\itcd to llie same meeting were the par­

his conunittec did a fine job in planning this affair. 
ents of the boj-s now attending Notre Dame; and The Notre Dame Club of Central New Jersey has 
Tlic presentation of Uie Notre Dame Cup, emble­

who have now been taken into the Club as asso­completed its first year since being reorganized. 
matic of football supremacy in tlie Msgr. Martin 
ciate members. Tlie monthly meetings have shown the increased 
Catholic High School League, was presented to 
The new officers arc as follows: President, RICH­interest of the alumni in the area by a steady 
St. Joseph's CoUe^ate Institute by President 
ARD dc GOLUN; Vice-President, JIM BARNARD; attendance. Tlie December meeting was dex-otcd 
RALPH ELSE at a fatlier-and-son dinner in honor 
Treasurer, JOE SCHNEIDER; Secretary-, W. H. to the election of officers for 1957 witli tlie following 
of tfic league diampjons. 
RICKE. results: president, GIL AUGUSTINE; ticc-prcsi-
Our first annual Christmas Holiday Dance was LOU AL\L\SI and JACK LA MGNE are in dcnts, JOE SIMONS and JI.M COLEMAN; treas­held at tlic Officer's Club of the Atlanta Na\-al diarge of the Notre Dame Basketball Ltmdieon to urer, ANTHON'Y GIUFFRE; secretary, JACK Air Station. DICK DONNELLY was chairman, be held at the Sheraton Hotel on February 2. DOYLE; trustees, AL ^VATERS, ANTHONY CER­assisted by JOE PORTER, It was a huge success, Notre Dame pla^rs Canisius that evening in the ES, JOHN LISICKI, DR. WILLLVM GADEK, and we will plan another next year. It was Memorial Auditorium. Rx\Y FAGxVN, ED SADOWSKI and DICK COR-attended by our own members and their guests, and DASCO. 
Congratulations are in order to JIM and Meldic 

10 Atlanta boys now attending Notre Dame, home CLAUSS, chairmen of tlie Christmas Dance, and Jolm Lisicki chairmanncd a bus trip to the ^' for the holidays, ^fore details and pictures will their committees. Tlicir committee heads were: NJ).-N.Y.U. game during tlic holiday tournament E be sent later. 
JOE and Ann DUNN, tickets; Jack and Marion at Madison Square Garden on December 26. The 
Some of the members are planning to attend the La Vignc, reservations; JOHN and Jean DOERR, group of 33 was re^^'arded with a very thrilling Florida Convention at the fabulous Sea Ranch in decorations; DICK and Maureen THOEN, CY and and satisfj-ing game. Tlie club is indebted to John Fort Lauderdale in May. Eleanor RICKARD, music; RALPH and Margaret for an excellent job in securing and dbpostng of 
—^VILLL^M H. RICKE, Sees'. 

ELSE, publicity and EDDIE AYERS from the die tickets in the short time allotted between the 
BALTIMORE—(Photo on left) Navy game rally, sponsored by the Baltimore ND Club, featured J. Murray Wienian, president, at the|i microphone, General Chairman Franklyn C. Hochrieter on Murray's right, and Master of Ceremonies Harry Wismer. (Photo on right) I Edgar E. "Rip" Miller, assistant director of athletics at the Naval Academy and former Irish football star, addresses the group. Most Rev. Jerome D. Sebastian, auxiliary to the Archbishop of Baltimore and Edward "Moose" Kranse are also at the head table. 
m 
-'i 

-23 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb-Mar., 1957 
•-^•'-r^r^!^ 
COLUMBUS—Father Janies Doll, C.S.C., guest speaker at the Communion Breakfast, receives club gift of $500 in behalf of the University from president John Gordon. 
announcement of the courney drau' and the date of 
tlic game. 
Tile January- meeting was devoted to a discussion 
of a possible dance in February and plans for 
Universal Xotre Dame Nigbt. Alumni \«II be 
advised of both affairs as soon as arrangements 
as to time and place arc completed­
—JOHN J. DOYLE, Secy. 


Central Pennsylvania 
Tlic annual Communion Breakfast followed a High Mass celebrated by the Club Chaplain, FATHER PHILIP O^DONNELL, at Our Mother of Sorrow's Church in Johnstown on Sunday, De­cember 30th. TIic breakfast, ser\ed to sixty alumni, families and district students, u-as planned by GENE CAVANAUGH and held in the Sunnehanna Country Club. Tlie u-ork of the Foundation u-as tJic topic of an address by the cliaplain, Tliis year's gatlujrlng had the largest attendance of any similar function in tlie club's history. 
—CHARLES G. HASSOX, Secy. 

Chicago 
lliis year's annual Commimion Breakfast was another shining star in the Club's social calendar. Altliough Clint Youlc played all sorts of tricks with you know what and Messrs. I-Ialas and Wolfncr had scheduled their yearly argiuncnc immediately following, a capacity group of stalwarts still man­aged to swell St. Peter's downtm\ii Cliurch. DAN HARDIN, Chairman, and our President, ROBERT E.MMETT WRIGHT did an admirable job of handling armngcmcnts. Tlicy provided us with the witty services of DAVID CONDON, who explained ho\v^hc had originally clioscn our ^Vlma Mater as his own. He also fu>mp1alncd at length about the house he purcliased from one of the city's and Notre Dame's better known builders. 
FATHER JOHN J. L.\NE, our prindpal speaker, provided tlic spiritual message which is so mudi an integral part of this event. Wc will all agree that tlicrc has been no "decmphasis" as long as the best attended functions arc tlic Communion Breakfasts. 
—PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51, Chairman 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago has initiated a scries of oncc-a-nionth lunclieons for all Notre Dame alumni and friends, to be held at the Western Society of Engineers Club at 84 East Randolph Street. It was decided to have the lundieons as 3 means of assuring closer contact with alumni who, because of \"arious reasons, arc unable to attend the club's sodal functions. The Brst meet­ing was held on Fcbruar>* 4 and the remaining meetings arc sdicdulcd for March 4, April I, May 
6, June 3, July I, August 5, September 9, October 7, November 4 and December 2. Tlic Chicago Club's board of directors decided that an activity which would ser\-e as a means of bringing all alumni together was lacking in. the present schedule of events. After much discussion the board thought that a Loop location would be the most logical place for luncheon meetings. Plans call for a speaker to discuss, briefly, a timely topic at each of the luncheons. Lundicoa service begins at 12:15 p.m.; a bar is available In the dub where the meetings arc to bo held. 
It is sincerely hoped by the board of governors that all Chicago alumni will find it convenient to attend this innox'ation on tlie club program—the monthly lundieon. 
—ROBERT EMMETT WRIGHT, Pres. 

Cincinnati 
TIic Alumni Club's annual scholarship ball was again an extremely successful afl'air with about 800 people in attendance. This was the 11th sdiol­arship ball, which was originated to assist the dub in providing funds for the scholarship. Gen­eral dialrman of the dance was JOHN C. COT­TINGHAM. ^MLLLVM H. GR^VFE, JR., was patron chairman and Ms committee was composed of HOWARD ROHAN, JOHN A. FAVRET, R/\Y­MOND GUDMENS and JOHN E. J. .McSWEE-NEY. The chairman of the adminbtrativo com­mittee was MRS. JOHN B. BRODBERGER, JR. A feature of the evening for the ladies was the drawing for a mink stole which was won bv Mrs. WILLIAM H. HUNTER. 

Cleveland 
The club sponsored the annual Christmas dance at the Mid-Day Club on December 29. This year a change in poIic>- on Universal Communion Sun­day resulted in Individuals attending Mass in their respective parishes rather than the dub assembling as a group which has been the custom in the past. 
The annual scholarship raffle was a tremendous success. PAT C\NNY was the recipient of the grand prize, an all-expense paid trip to the Okla­homa game. 
TIIC Christmas dance was held on December 29 at the Mid-Day Club with BILL BE.\RGIE and BILL EGGERS serving as co-chairmen. Flans were formulated for next year's dance to be held on December 27 at the Cleveland Hotel, 
JOHN REIDY, SR. is recuperating from a recent illness. R/\Y T. MILLER, JR. u-as rc-dcctcd to the Ohio House of Representatives for a third terra. 
GUS STEFxVNEK has been transferred by An­chor Motor Company to Tarr\-iown. N. Y. HUGH O'NEILL is president of the company. 
TOM McHALE's wife. Fran, has been released from the hospital and is on the road to recovery. 
JIM ROGERS and his wife Mary Jane had a baby girl on December 13. The new daughter also is named Mary Jane. 
—DENNIS O'NEILL, Secy. 

Columbus 
Tliere have been a number of successful events sponsored by the club in recent months. Begin­ning on November 7 with a monthly meeting, there ^vere two highlight affairs in December—the Communion Breakfast on the 9th and the Christmas dance on tlie 28th. Monthly meetings in the future will be held on March 4 at the Hotel Virginia, April I at the Hotel Virginia, and UND Night vixW be April 29 at the Umversity Club. The meet­ings at the Hotel Virginia will begin at 8:30 p.m. 
Club members, their wvcs and families celebrated Notre Dame Communion Sunday, December 9th by attending Mass and receiving Communion at St. Joseph's Cathedral. Immediately thereafter, there was a group breakfast at Kuenning*5 Restaurant. REV. JAMES DOLL, C.S.C., from Lobund on the campus, gave a very inspiring talk. Dr. HENRY HUGHES «as the chairman of the successful affair. 
On December 28th, the annual Christmas dance was held at the Deshler-HIlton grand ballroom. BOB QUINT and JERRY TIMKO were chairmen and arc very grateful to the campus students for their help and enthusiasm. 
JOHN IGOE, past president of the Columbus Alumni Club, received the distinct honor of being chosen as the first recipient of the annual "Catho­lic Man of the Year" award by the Catholic Men's Luncheon Club on January- 5th. Wc are proud that a Notre Dame man was selected to be the first and there is no doubt that John is most deserving, 
January* 18th was a big day in Coltunbus for Notre Dame. PAUL HORNUNG, voted the out­standing college football player of the past season, was presented the Toudidown trophy by the Colum­bus Athletic Club. Afany of the focal alumni attended. 
—BOB ECHENRODE, Secy. 


Connecficuf Valley 
Tlic Connecticut Valley Club was one of the many represented when TERRY BRENNAN opened his mail prior to the Michigan State game, for presi­dent ART McGEE had sent a telegram expressing our faith in Terry and the team. 
A surprisingly happy group of stalwart Notre Dame rooters gathered to w-atdi the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game telcvLscd on October 27, Tlie lopsided score, though unexpected, didn't dampen 

CINCINNATI—Mrs. Wiih'am Hunter won the mink stole at the cJub*s 11th Annual Scholar­ship Ball. Left to right: Mrs. John B. Brodbcrger, Jr., Mrs. Hunter, Mrs. ^Villiam H. Grafe, Jr., and Howard H. Rohan. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1937 
DELAWARE—Club President Charley Wolfe presented the "outstanding player" award, sponsored by N.D, alumni, to Wihnington High's Charles Cox, at the banquet following the First Delaware All-Star Football Game. 
our zeal. AVc had a bit of trouble bringing in a decent pictuic at first, but tlianks to the Pa Kettle tactics of FLOYD RICHx\RDS, who banged las foot on tlic floor •whenever the picture began to fade, we sa%v all but the first few minutes o[ the game. 
Better than fort>* club members attended the an­nual Communion breakfast on December 9. Mass was cclrfjratcd at 9:00 o'clock at St. Patrick's Church in Hartford, and the breakfast was held at the Hotel Statler at 10:30. Senator William Pur­tell gave some of his impressions of communism and its cfTects as seen in his recent trip through some of the iron curtain countries. The Senator's re­marks were followed by a lively di>cussion period w*lucli lasted well after noon. It will be with sad­ness that this and other Notre Dame Communion Sundays will be remembered, for just three weeks later, St. Patrick's was severely damaged by fire. However, plans liavc already been made for the reconstruction of this century* old cJiurcli. 
I regret to report that DAVE H.-WES, '20, suf­fered a fatal heart attack in November, leaving his wife, a daughter, and three sons. Dave will be remembered by many who did not know him per­sonally as the man who caught the pass wliich beat Army in 1919. FATHER M..\TT AVALSH, fonner Notre Dame president, came from South Bend when he heard of Dave's death. He led the club members saying the Rosarj* at tlie wake and was on the altar and at the grave for the funeral services. 
—LOU BERGERON, '52, Scc» 


Dallas 
On November 8tli, 1956. the Notre Dame Women's Auxiliary- Club held a ColTee at the home of Mrs. LLOYD BELLAMY, 4224 Vcr^illes, hon­oring the incoming officers: ^trs. CHARLES B. LOHR, JR., Prcs.; Mrs. J. M. HxVGGAR, JR., 1st \ncc-Pres.; Mrs. JOHN L. DARROUZET, JR., 2nd Vice-Pres.; ^rrs. SAM A. WING, JR., Secre­tar>-; and Mrs. JOSEPH P. RUD, Treasurer. Prior Presidents, ^^rs. FR/VNK CROWLEY and Mrs. WARREN HIGGINS, presided at the Silver Service. 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas held its annual Christmas Ball December 2Gtli at the ne%\' beauti­fully redecorated Glen Lakes Country Club. There was a vcr>' fine turnout by club members and friends. Proceeds will again be used for a scholar­ship, awarded each year to a dcsening boy from the Dallas area. DxUTD FURLOW ser\ed as chairman. 
WILL KIRK, Class of '37, vas made a Knight of Malta by Cardinal Spellman at Saint Patrick's 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar., 1957 
Cathedral, New York City, January 14th. Will lias been very act:vc in our Club affairs, and he has acliieved a great deal of cine prominence during his relatively short period of residence in Dallas. He is currently Mce-President of the Texas Bank & Trust Company, and Treasurer of the Notre Dam- Club of Dallas. 
—H. F. TEHAN, Secj-. 


Dearborn 
The club's fall schedule included participating in tlic Tri-University Dance held on November 16 at the Dearborn Country* Club. Reservations were in cliarge of TOM DORE. A recent general meet­ing took place in TOA( TUCKER*s home with re­gard to discussion of future activities for the club. 
Denver 
The fifth annual C}lri^tmas dance was held this 

year at the Wolhurst Club, Littleton, Colorado. 
Tliis affair which originated in December, 1952 
has become a part of Club activities each year. 
The purpose of the Christmas dance is to bring 

the students now in attendance at the University 
closer to the Alumni of the Denver Notre Dame 
Club. 
Over 200 persons attended and a good time was 

liad by all. ^fusic was provided by the WoUmrst 
Band, llmsc invited to attend were Alumni, wives, 
N.D. students, parents and friends of Notre Dame. ARTHUR GREGORY, president of the Denver Notre Dame Club, crowned Miss NL-\RY PAT BRENN.VN, queen of tiic Dance. Miss BRENN^\N was then escorted to the dance by Robert Maicr, president of the Colorado Club on campus. 
The committee whicli made lliis affair a success were: A. L. DOWDS, DONOVAN C. REIGER, JAMES F. HANLON and THONLVS J. GxVR-GAN, Chairman, and ROBERT MAIER, president of the Colorado Club at the Universitv. 
—TO.M GARGAN, Publicity Chairman 

Des Moines 
On Sunday. December 9, 1956, the Xotrc Dame Alumni Club of Dcs Moines, Iowa, held ils annual Communion Breakfast. Members in attendance were: 
GEORGE PfLASZ, JOE CJVSEY, LEC K DILL­MAN, NICK MUELHAUPT, FR/\NK FERGUS, -MARC WOXDERLI.V, BOB DOWNER, DICK ARKWRIGHT, LOUIS KURTZ, PAUL HIDE, GEORGE SHEEHE, KEN REXSTREW, JIM SHAW, JOHN STARK, ED POSNER, BOB &\N­NO.\, ASDY .McCORMACK, TOM NOLAN, TONY CRITELLI, KEN LUSKIN, JACK WHA­
LEN, JOE A\'HALEN, FRED NESBITT. 
On this same date, new ofHcen were nominated 

and elected for two year terms, as follows: Presi­
dent, BOB &\NNON; \nce-President, ;\NDY Mc­
CORMACK; ScerelarN-Trcasurer, TOM NOLAN. 
On December 27, 1956, the Notre Dame Alumni 

Club of Des Moines, Iowa held its annual Blue and 
Gold Ball at the Hotel Savcry in downtown Des 
Moines. Co-Chainnen for the dance were DICK 
ARKWRIGHT and TOM NOL,VN. More than 
four hundred friends and Alumni of Notre Dame 
attended this yearlv Ball. 
—T. J. NOLAN, JR., Sccy.-Treas. 

Detroit 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit's 23rd Annual Communion Breakfast was also the largest in the Club's history. A total of 317 members, wives and cliildren attended Mass celebrated by FATHER JOHN J. G/WAXAUGH, C.S.C., at Our Lady Star of the Sea Church and later heard him report on "Notre Dame Today" at breakfast at tlic Grosse Pointc Yacht Club. Co-Chainncn of this very successful activity were EDWARD C. RONEY, JR., '43 and JOHN A. SL.\TTERY, '35. 
The club's annual Christmas dance, chairmanncd by JIM CLErVRY, JIM GPFRE and JERRY Mc-P.-VRTLIN, was again an extremely successful affair. It was held on December 27 In the Sheraton-Cadil­lac Hotel. Campus club representatives in making arrangements were Tom Moore and John Croha. There was an attendance of 329 couples and it Is quite probable that the club will have a substantial profit from this event. Music u'as provided by Dave Farley's orcliestra. 
Tlie club members were shocked by the death of 
Dr. HARVEY F. BRO\\'N, past president of the 
Notre Dame Club of Detroit. He was also cair­
renlly a director of tlie board. Har\cy had been 
in ill health for several months. Our deepest 
svmpathy to his wife and children. 
—DAN BRADLEY, Secy. 

Eastern Indiana 
The Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana held a Communion Breakfast for Fathers and Sons, Sunday, December 16. Twenty-seven fathers and sons attended the 8 o*clock mass at St. Mary's Church in Muncie and after^\•a^ds breakfasted at Payne's Cafe. JOHN MARHOEFER, president, presided. 
Tliose attending were: President. John Marhoefcr; Secretan.-, RICHARD A. GREENE; TOM AD­AMS, WILLI<\M F. CR.UG, SR. and son, Wil­liam, Jr.; HOWARD R. (BUTCH) DE VAULT, and .sons, Mike and Stephen; WILLI.VM S. Mc-DO.NALD; JOHN HYNES and son, J. T. Hynes; NORBERT W. HART and sons, Joseph, J. T., and Teddy; ED DIXON and sons, Stephen and Leon; MARIO PIERONI and son, John; THOM<\S A. C/VNNON and son, John; (all of Muncie), and MALCOL^( BRIDGE and sons. Bob and Billy, and BILL CRONIN and son, Bill, (Hartford City). 
—DICK GREE.VE, Secy. 

Eastern Kansas 
PAUL HURD, '44 President of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Kansas has accepted a job in Kansas City, Mo., as head of the Overseas Tax Department for Trans-World Airlines. Our con­gratulations and best wbhes to Paul, may Cod be with him on his wav. 
Tlie Treasurer, HENRY DEVLIN, '49 has moved up to President, WALTER STEVENS, '05, re­mains as \'ice-PresidenI, and JOHN PARRY, '49 Secretary, has become Secretary-Treasurer. 
The club joined the Salina, Kansas Notre Dame Club in sponsoring a special train to the Oklahoma-Notre Dame game in October. 
—JOHN PARRY, Secy. 

El Paso 
The following is a report of the activities of the Notre Dame Club of El Paso, Texas. 
The Notre Dame Club of EI Paso commemorated Universal Notre Dame Commimion Sunday on December 9th. Members and their wives attended mass and received Communion in a body at die church of St. Pius the Tenth in El P-iso. 
The December meeting was held following a 
FORT LAUDERDALE — Alumni visitors arriving in Fort Lauderdale on Route 1 wil! find the club*s highway sign attrac­tive and infoniiativc. This looks like another "first" for Fort Lauderdale alunini. 
breakfast scn'vtl at the Flamingo Hotel dining room. FATHER IRVING KLISTER, '39, ad­dressed the group with an inspiring message on "the importance of tlie laity to the cliurcli." 
Tlie next chib meeting vWll be held on the 12th of Febniar>- at the home of ^fr. EDWARD BOYLE. 
Tlie club will sponsor a golf tournament Fcbru­ar>' 22nd at the country- club in Juarez, Mcvico. /Vrrangements for the tournament arc being made by TIM HANRAHAX, '50. 
—JAMES R. FORD, '49, Sec>-. 

Evansville 
Tlie Xoire Dame Club of Evansville held its sixth annual Xew Year's party at the Kolvies on Satur­day, January- 12. .Approximately 60 couples were on hand for the evening's activities which included a cocktail hour, bufTet supper and dancing. 
—JOE TEMBORIUS, Secy. 

Flint 
On Sunday, June 24tli, we held our second an­nual "Family Picnic'* at the Johnson Farm just outside of Flint. .-Utogethcr seventy-seven Notre Daniers enjoyed the afternoon of picnicing and games. KAY KELLY and HERB JOHNSON were co-chainnen and were ably assisted by JOE OKO­PIEN. The Door Prize of one canned liam was won by the BILL MINARDO family. 
During the summer months the directors and olTiccrs of the club met several times to make plans for the excursion to the Micliigan Slate game at the University. To present tliese final plans to the general membership for approval, we held a meeting on October 2nd at PAUL HUGHES* home. 
.Among those present were VIC GEORGE, FR^VNK Club. (Ed. Note: I must belong to the wrong DIONISE, D.\N SULLIV.VN, BOB .McDONALD club JC.) and A. S. FUHRM.\N. At tlic end of the game, the major part of our 
October 20th, of course, was the day of the group continued the party in tlie Yankee Clipper excursion to Notre Dame which ran as smooth as Hotel. silk under the guiding genius of "Captain** PAUL Our most recent meeting was a regular closed 
HUGHES, President BOB SIBILSKV, BILL MI­affair, again, at the Governors* Club Hotel. The NARDO and R(VY KELLY. Paul and Bob made meeting was conducted imder the very able direc­sure that all 200 of tlic excursioncrs got on and 
tion of our Vice-President, GEORGE ERNST. 
ofT the train safely and enjoyed themselves. Bill TO.M RILEY, brother of Phil, olEcially joined the and Ray raffled ofT an N.D, Blanket on the way Club as a regular member, and thp Club elected down to the game snd netted a clear $85 for tlic the follmWng to an associate membership: club. A young student at Flint Junior College of Dwight S. Millcman, William E. Sallade, Nicho­the U. of M. won the blanket. The food and las J. ^^a^garitis, Albert if. Souckar, J. P. L^-ons. 
refreshments were catered for us by a local man Our local organization is. gro\ving so rapidly in whicli gave us another $60 profit to add to that numbers that BOB GORE made a motion to set up of the entire affair. 
a Board of Directors with two members serving E%-er>one aboard agreed that the trip left nothing for one year, and two members for two years, with 
much to be desired except, of course, a Notre the retiring president serving one year. This will Dame victory-, which would have made it perfect 
necessitate a cliangc in our by-laws which we hope all ways. We all did appreciate, however, the to make shortly. 
splendid showing of the team during the first half Tlic chief item of business, as usual, was the of the game. I believe tliat the club members felt menu. For this meeting we had dclidous roast that the idea of the "telegrams" to bolster the team prime ribs of beef au jus, wth chateau l^aiite spirit was successful enough if only to remind them Rothschild w-ine. (Ed. Note: This club should have of the tremendous bond all Notre Dame Men have l(X)9l) attendance every meeting JC.) 
to eacli other. (Ed Note: Thanks to the Flint Club, The regular monthly meeting was held on Janu­100 N.D. alumni groups responded to the sugges­ary 10 at the Governor's Club Hotel. It was ation regarding a telegram to Terry and the team. 
closed business meeting and the last for the previ­JC). 
ous year's officers. In the absence of our presi­FATHER JOH-V J. aW.VN.-VUGH, C.S.C, was dent, our very able vice-president, GEORGE 
our guest speaker on December 17 at the annual ERNST, presided. In all, 33 were present. 
Communion Breakfast. He was celebrant of the The results of ballots posing the question "Should Nfass whicli was held at St. Michael's Church. 
we create a board of directors for the Club?" 
Father Cai.'anaugh gave an extremely interesting talk showed an ovenvhelming affirmative vote. We had ri'garding the University and its future plans. 
anticipated this vote, so we also received nomina­—FRED MANSOUR, Sec>-. 
tions for directors as well as next year's officers. The club is still trying to work out a program of entertainment and aid for ND and other col­
Fort Lauderdale 
lege students witing Ft. Lauderdale during their We held a special banquet meeting open to wives 
Easter vacation. Plans arc still indefinite as to and guests on Thursday, October 11, 1956, at our 
the scope of our acti«ties, but it seems fairly old standby, the Governors' Club Hotel. The 
certain wc*II at least throw a big dance. scheduled feature of this meeting was the "elec­Our fine diaplain, 'SUgr. Allais, has finally
 re­tion" of two friends of the Club to attend the turned from the North—it made our meeting more 
Notre Damc-Oklalioma game and spend a weekend complete having him at the head table. Also on tlie campus. As in the case of most elections. adding to the completeness was the presence again tliis one took up the entire evening, with Mr. and of BILL WILKINSON. 
Mrs. EDDIE PATTERSON, long-standing friends Scheduled guest speaker, JOE O'NEILL, Mid­of the Club, emerging as the winners. land, Texas, Alumni Association President, who 
W'c had two special guests, FATHER .MORG^VN 

was vacationing in Palm Beach, was called out of of St. Anthony's Parish, and FATHER T. J. FAR-
town unexpectedly and could not appear. We RELLY, President of Central Catholic High School 
hope to ha\-c you back soon to fill that engage­here in Fort Lauderdale. Father Farrelly proved ment, Joe. to be quite a proficient and enjoyable ad lib Father Morgan of St. Anthony's Parish and speaker, after ha\-ing been put on the spot by Father Farrelly from Central Catholic were hon­President SULHV.-\N without any forewarning. ored guests, and once again Fatlier Farrelly livened On October 27tli, the Club had its annual foot­
things up a bit—this time with a few choice words ball TV party and a good time was had by all, in on raising college students. spite of the scoreboard. Tlie party began at 1:30 CHUCK BAADER, '43, was a welcome guest 
p.m. in the Penthouse of the Governors* Club from the Philadelphia, Pa., area and we believe Hotel and cocktails and hors d'oevres were served he'll make this his home. He came with BILL during the entire afternoon, at the expense of the REDDEN, who was a classmate of Chuck's dad 
DENVER—Club president Art Grcgorj* crowned the queen, Miss Mary Pat Brennan, at the alumni dance held during the holidays. Left to right: Mrs. Arthur Gregory, Gregory, Robert Maicr, Mrs. Thomas J. Gargan, and Tom Gargan, dance chairman. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
DETROIT—Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., was the club's guest speaker for the annual Conimunion Breakfast event. Standing, left to right: Jack Slatter>* and Ed Roney, co-chaimicn. Sitting, left to right: Mrs. Slalterj-, Fr. Cavanaugh, Club President Jini Byrne and Mrs. Byrne. 
at N.D. Mr. Baadcr and Bill are both well-kntiwii 
arcliitccts. 
JIM HALEY, wliose son now attends X.D., joined 

tile meeting and we hopr will soon be an Iionor3r>" 
member of the Chib. 
Again, wc wonld like to call to tlic attention of 

all cliil>s tliat we hold a nireting in tlic Governors' 
Club Hotel on the 2nd lliursday of cacli and cver\* 
monlli. Wc would like to have all winter visitors 
ioln us if possible. 
—DICK WHALEX, Sec>-. 

Fort Wayne 
Tlie local club kicked off the season with a smoker in llic Social Room of the CcntJivrc Brew­ing Company on October 30. Hillard Gates, a local sports announcer, discussed the 193G football sea­son and wc had a film of the 1955 Nav\--N.D. game. 
The club then held its I9lh annual Communion Breakfast on December 9. 1956, at the Keenan Hotel. About 50 members offered Mass for the deceased members of the club and then Fatlier James P. Conroy, associate editor of "Our Sunday Visitor," was our guest speaker at the breakfast. PAUL SCHIRMEYER was cliairman of the event and was assisted bv NORBERT J. SCHEXKEL, THOMAS E. COSTELLO and J.\.MES J. SCHE.\­KEL. 
Also, JIM BATES was our co-chairman for the 
Chnstmas Dance held In co-operation with the 
studrnts. 
—ROBERT J. KLLVGE.\BERGER, Scc>-. 

Harrisburg 
Tlie club lias sponsored \-arIous activities in the past few months beginning witli a pre-school party for the five students in this area who arc now at Xotre Dame. Tlie meeting was held at JOHX* DAVIS' ^'backyard grille" with DOX MEEK serv­ing as chef. About 30 members including the fathers of the students attended this affair. 
Tlie highliglit of the Harrislmrg Club's Com­munion Breakfast held on December 9 u'as the presentation of the first annual Football and Lead­erstiip Awards. Tlie club sponsorship of tJiese awards was praised highly by RT. REV. MSGR. ROBERT J. MAHER, superintendent of schools for the Harri^urg Diocese and principal speaker at the breakfast. He stressed tlie Inclusion of lead­ership, diaracter and scliolarsliip with football as a basis of selection. Club Prcident John Davis is to be commended for instituting this worthwhile ac­tivity. Indirecllv. the club was both sponsor and winner—REV. WILLLVM R. LYOXS, principal of Delonc Catliolic High Scliool, is a Xotre Dame graduate and member of the Alumni club. WIL­LIAM A. O'COXXOR was cliairman of the break­fast committee. Five schools were eligible to par­ticipate and Richard Hcmler, Dclone halfback, won the indindual award. Those given honorable men­
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb,-Afar., 1957 
tion included Pat .-Vnderson, Lebanon; Leonard Madius, Harrisburg; Ben Charles, Lancaster; and Jerr>- Fisher of York. The club made its final decision based on the boys with the highest per­centage rating for scholastic work, leadership and character. Hemler has achieved a bettcr-than 90% academic average f<ir 4 years. The Mass A\*as held at St. Margaret Mar\- Church, Pembrook, and breakfast followed In the school cafeteria. FATHER WILLIAM KIRCHNER, ciub chaplain, was cele­brant of the Mass. 
Paul Dailcy of Harrisburg, a freshman at Xolrc Dame, C3:tended a welcome to all the students and their guests in this area at an open house on December 30. Attendance was exceptionally good and ever\-onc cnjoved the partv, 
—BOB GR.\HAM, Scc>-. 

Hawaii 
Tlie Xotre Dame Club of Hawaii held a lundieon on Saturday, Januar>-5 to honor BOB TONEFF, *52, star lineman of the San Francisco 49'ers, and Jim Morse and Paul Ilornung of the 1956 Xotre Dame team. .AH three were in Hawaii to partici­pate in the Hula Bowl ^anie. Forty members 
attended the event which was held at the Outrigger 
Canoe Club. TonefT and Ilurnung made brief 
talks to the group and, as evidenced by a photo­
graph in this issue of the Alumnus, both were 
selecled as the two outstanding players of the game. 
—BILL Hx\XIFIX, Sec>-. 

Kankakee Valley 
The officers met recently to plan a program for tlic first three months of 1957. Tlie first meeting %vlll be for members only and will consist of movies of tlie Highlights of 1956. It is hoped that we will have an exhibition game to r:use funds for a Xotre Dame scliolarsliip. It is also planned to sponsor the Xotre Dame GIcc Club in a spring concert. Preparatlttns are being made for Uni­\ersal Xotre Dame Xight and our first presentation of the Man-of-the-Year award. Last UXD Xlght the club had just been organized and an outstanding event was held with Assistant Law Schiml Dean John Brodi'rick as guest speaker. 
During the summer, a picnic and a steak fry 
were held for club members and their families. 
There are about 30 members in the club at 
the present time and we believe that many more 
will become active in the near future. 
—MARVIX O. HUOT, Sco". 

Kansas City 
December 5, 1956, the Xotre Dame Club of Kansas City joined with the University of Iowa Club for the annual football film limclieon at whicli time our Xotre Dame Club presented the Iowa Club president with our interclub symbol of vic­tory* *'Tlie Paint Can Trophy.*' fVbout 25 X'otrc Dame alumni were present Including BEX' OAKES, ED O'COXXOR, TOM McGEE, FR^VXK SCHRO­ER, CHUCK FRIZZELL and BOB HEISLER. 
December 9, 1956—Our annual Communion Breakfast was held at St, Teresa's College. A Mass was celebrated at 9:30 a.m. with breakfast Immediately following. 
December 2G, 1956—Our annual X'otre Dame Christmas Dance was held again this year in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel President on Wednes­day evening. The Junior Ballroom was reserved for our free cocktail hour with complete, full-course dinner served candlelight with dinner music by Les Copley's Orchestra and dancing from 9:30 to 12:30. Tills dance for alumni, students and friends. 
—RUSS FARRELL, Prcs. 

Kentucky 
FATHER JOHX CW/VXAUGH made a short visit to Louisville in Xovember. Xotre Dame Club President. JOE RVRMOX and a gmup of 
FORT WAYNE—Father James Conroy, associate editor of Our Sunday Visitor, was guest speaker at the Club's annual Communion Breakfast. Paul Schirmcyer was chairman of the event. Others in photo are: Club Pres. Tom O'Reilly and Foundation Chairman Roy Grimmer. 
Tlic Mass for the Communion Breakfast event took place at St. Thercsc Church with breakfast 
at the Marino House. 
misms^Mm^ 
ATLANTA—Robert J. Serfling (left), Decatur, Ga., the first winner of a Notre Dame Scholarship sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Atlanta, is congratulated by William H. Ricke, chairman of the club's scholarship committee, during a recent visit to campus. Ricke is the regional manager of the Plomb Tool Company with headquarters in Atlanta. 
Alumni iiift Father at the airport. Tliat evtiiiiis Fatlicr Ca\-anaiigh spoke ac a dinner whicli marked the beginning of an educational fund drive by tlie Archdiocese of Louisville. The next morning a group of ND men attended the Mass celebrated bv Father Cav-anaujii, and after ^^ass had an informal breakfast. 
On December 2nd, liie Cbib had its Quarterly Coninmnion Sunday, which was also Family Com­munion Sunday for the Club. Mtcr Mass a break-fa.st was served at St. Mar>' ^^agdaIen's School. 
The Notre Dame-University of Louisville basket­ball s^iinc played in Louisville on December 22nd, was held at the new State Fairgrounds Coliseum. One of the largest crowds ever to sec a basketball game In Louisville u-as on hand. ROG HUTER. and PIERRE ^VNGERMEIER were in cliarge of distributing tickets for the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky. The Club alone distributed about IlOO tickets for tills game. After the game a reception was held by the Ni>tre Dame Club of Kentucky at the Knights of Columbus Club House. PAUL 
•AL-VLONEY made arrangements for the reception. BUD WILLENBRINK presided at the December meeting, due to the Illness of President Joe Har­mon and Vice-President Paul Malonc>'. President Harmon spent sonic time in the hospital In De­, cember and will again go to the hospital this monlli. Best wishes lo Joe for a speedy recover*'. For his many friends around tlic counlrj', Presl­' dent Joe Harmon's home address is 1203 Falcon Drive, Louisville 13, Ky. Through the cfTorts of JOE DONALDSON and his Scholarship Fund Committee approximately $500 was recently added to this Fund. 
JACK MUELLER was Chairman of the Notre Dame Club's Annual Christmas Dance, held at the Continental Ballroom of the Henr>- Clay Hotel, on Friday, December 28th. 
A big event Is being planned by the Noire Dame Club of Kentucky for February 12th, when the Club will give a tribute dinner for Louisville's own Notre Dame Heisman Trophy \Vinner and All-American, PAUL HORNUNG. The principal guests of the evening will be Coach TERRY BR^' ­NAN and HARRY STUHLDREHER, of Four-Horsemen fame. Rog Hunter Is In charge of arrangements. Tlie dinner will be in the dining rooms of the new Coliseum at the State Fair­grounds. A huge crowd Is expected. 
—BILL PALMER, Sccv-. 
LaCrosse 
The La Crosse Alumni Club h formulating plans to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night during the week of May 5th to the IIth. We have ten­tatively scheduled a banquet for that week and anticipate a crowd of from fifty to sbcly couples. It Is hoped that a rcprc>entatlve from the campus will be our guest speaker. 
—GER.\LD HEBERLELV, Sec>-. 
Los Angeles 
Tlic club enjoyed three outstanding events held in recent weeks. These included the big prc­gamc pep rally on the night before tlic Notre Damc-Soutliem Cal game at the Biltmorc Hotel; the annual Commimion Breakfast on December 9 and the Christmas dance on December 27. Many celebrities of the sports and entertainment field were present for the rally. 

The Christmas dance, held for all alumni and students in the area, was at the Bevcrly-WIIshirc Hotel. 
Miami 
It Is planned to have twelve gel-togclliers for the club during 1957. Starting with Communion Sunday on January' 6 which was chairmanned by GEORGE KINNARD, the annual football award dinner was held on Februar\' 7. J.ACK HOUGH­TELING was in cliarge of arrangements. A regu­lar meeting is scheduled in March with VINCE TURIANO serving as clialrman. UND Night, sclieduled for the month of April, will be handli-d by ART BERGIN and ED LYO.NS. In .May. June and July tlie club will have regular meetings at the Shclboume on the first Timrsday of the month. BILL WELCH, DICK SADOWSKI and JACK SH/\Y arc the respective chairmen of these tliree affairs. BOB REILLY and the OUELLETTES will be In charge of the club's picnic scheduled for August. Football parties are also planned in Sep­tember, October and November with JERRY HOL­L.V.\D, D.VN LINO and .MIKE O^VEILL sen,ing as dialrmen. Tlic ladles will be In charge of the Christmas parly in December and the election of officers for the club is also scheduled during that month. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 
Club events this year have included the Com­munion Breakfast on December 9 with Mass at St. .Andrew's and breakfast screed at The Kitchen, and a December get-together at Talbot's Inn. Other events sclieduled for the future include UND Night in April, a meeting on May 16 and a family picnic on June 23. 
New Haven 
XCTV officers elected for the 1956-57 vear include: EDAV'ARD A. BYRNE, president; WALTER A. LEE, vice-president and secretary-treasurer. 
Others attending the meeting Included G. AL­BERT L.VA\TON. PAUL A. BLONDIN, DR. JOSEPH F. CLIFFORD, ROBERT E. LEE, JR., DR. JOSEPH J. O'NEILL. WILLIA.M L. PIED­MONT, JOH.V A. WAR.\ER, JR., JOSEPH R. BENOIT and JOHN ^ZD.ANOWICZ. 
The club had a display booth at the College Fair in Ne\%r Haven on Sunday, December 2. This is tlie third annual occasion that New Haven alumni have represented the University at this e\'ent. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday \\-as celebrated on December 9 with the group receiving Communion at St. Aedan's Church in New Ha\xn. Breakfast ^*'as held at the Three Judges Reslaunuit. 
—JOE BURNS 
New Jersey 
At a recent meeting of the Board of Di­rectors, ROBERT F. L^VRKIN, class of 1W5, was appointed permanent Recording Secretary and our Club's new ofRcc is now located at 423 Bloomficld .Avenue, Montclair, New Jersey. 
The Notre Dame Alunint /Association of New Jersey held Its annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday, December 9, 1956 at St. Philips Church. Valley Road, Clifton, New Jcrse>-. Members and friends of Notre Dome attended and were priv­ileged lo hear one of our renowned Notre Dame greats, JIM CROWLEY. Jim is presently Boxing-Commissioner for the Commonwealth of Pennsyl­\'anla as welt as an active television sports com­mentator, and delighted those in attendance with hl"^ many reminiscence of the past and comments or the day concerning the sports world- Father Hoo­ver, a loyal friend of the Club and Headmaster at St. Benedict's Prep School, was also a guest speaker. 
The next General ^^cmbershIp meeting of the New Jersey Club will be held at the P. Ballan­tlne and Sons Brewery, Ne^vark, New Jeney, at 
7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, Febniary 26, 1957. Rx\Y­MOND TROY, Chairman of this meeting, has ar­ranged for a tour of the plant after which the cafeteria will be turned over to the Club cxdu-

Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 27 
HARRISBURG—The first Annual Football and Leadership aivards, sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Harrisburg, \vcrc awarded recently at a Commumon Breakfast. The largest plaque is to be ghcn for one year to the high school represented by the winning boy. The next-to-largest plaque is awarded to the individual 'winner. The four small plaques arc presented to the runners-up from the other high schools in the area. For complete details read Harrisburg UTitcup in Club News section of this issue. 
slvcly. Members and friends o[ Notre Dame arc \velcome and a short Imsincss mcctins will be held. 
JOE BYRNE, III, Chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night, has informed the officers that our annual dinner will be held at ^layfaJr Farms, West Orange, on April 29, 1957 and this year wc are extending our inntation to the ladies. 
New York City 
Our golf outing in August at the Rockville Coun­try Club in Roctville Center, Long Island drew 85 Notre Dame men on a splendid made to order summer day. GEORGE STUHR with a 70 low gross carried away top honors of the day and proved tliat he has lost little of his touch since the days ^^'ben he led the Irish golf team to many a victory. JIM HEAKY, Chairman, is to be congratulated for a splendid job as well as GENE 

28 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
MAGUIRE, JIM SLATTERY and GEORGE OL­VANY, m(nnbcr5 of his committee. 
Sept. 5 was the date of our tlnrd annual Fresh­man Smoker. Tliis is tlie get-together that wc hold for new students and tlicir fathers—sort of a get acquainted t\-pc of meeting. Tlicrc were 150 fathers and sons for tills evening at the New York Athletic Club. \Vc showed the highlights of the fifty-ftvc season as well as a color film of the Campus. FoUowing these several of the June graduates as well as current seniors from the x-arious colleges held question and answer forums in \*anous secions of the meeting room. Chairman of the evening ^\-as last year's President of the Campus Metropolitan Club. WALTER ARNOLD, '56. 
On AVedncsday c\'ening, Oct. 3, the first meeting of the newly formed AVomcn's Auxiliary was held in the home of Mrs. GEORGE "Pat" OLVANY. Pat is the sister of BILL JOHNSON, '43. About 20 gals attended and plans were made for a get acquainted luncheon. We*re expecting some won­derful tilings from t)ie distaff side of the Notre Dame family. 
Complete stor>' of the "Jack Lavcllc Night" event is being published in this Alumnus as a fea­ture article in the front of the magazine. 
—TONY E.\RLEY, Pres. 
Northern California 
The club's big event was held on December 23 featuring honored guests TERRY BRENNWN, BUCK SHAW and others connected with the East-West game. The dinner was held in San ^fateo at tlie Villa Hotel. 
The Christmas dance was held at the St. Fran­cis Yaclit Club, San Francisco, on Thursday, December 27. 
ED MvVNSFIELD was elected president to suc­ceed DICK AMES. 
Northwestern Ohio 
.\s this issue of the Alumnus goes to press, the club has planned a meeting in February at St. Mar>''s, Ohio. More details will be published later. 
—BILL SIL\NAH.\N 
Omaha and Council Bluffs 
On December 9, 1936, the Club had the annual Communion breakfast at St. Margaret ifary's Church in Omaha, Nebraska. The members and their guests had breakfast at the Toivn House immediately after Mass. Approximately 50 mem­bers and guests attended the Communion and breakfast. Among the honored guests were Mayor John Rosenblatt, Mayor of Omalia, and Msgr. Daniel Sheehan of the Arch Diocese of Omalia. After breakfast both Mayor Rosenblatt and Msgr. Sheehan gave short talks. Some of the members present were: HERB SiVMPSON, DENIS R.\D­FORD, WALT McCOURT, JACK McCOURT, JAMES BUCKLEY, GORDON BERGQUIST, GER^\RD KELLY, HUGHES WILCOX, WILLLAM SEIDLER, BOB ROHLING, BOB BROU'N, BOB BERRY, JACK WINGENDER, ED LEVINSON, HENRY ROGERS and several others. 
On December 27, 1956, the Alumni Club had a cocktail party in conjunction with the Annual Notre Dame Dance sponsored by the campus club of Nebraska. The cocktail party was held at the Omaha Athletic Club between tlic hours of 7-9. Approximately fifty couples attended the cocktail party and later moved on to the dance at the Fontcnelle Hotel. Both the cocktail party and dance were a tremendous success and a fine time was had by all. 
—WILLIAM SEIDLER, Sec>-. 
Philadelphia 
Tlie raffie came to a successful conclusion and it is appropriate at this time to credit the fine work of co-diairmcn CHARLIE CONLEY and WALT RIDLEY. 
JOHN NEESON \vas chairman of the Commun­ion Sunday Breakfast. Mass \^'as held in Our Lad>*'s Chapel and breakfast was served at tlie Barclay Hotel on December 9. The celebrant of the Mass was Fatlicr McCaffcry, club diaplain, and the principal speaker at the breakfast was Rc\*. John G. McFaddcn, director of the Arch­diocesan Catholic Information Service. BILL WALSH, assistant football coach at Notre Dame, •" Was also on the speaking program and presented the club's trophy to the outstanding player iui tile Catholic High Scliool Football League. 
Tlic board of governors unanimously voted to . send a clieck for $1300 to Notre Dame from tht* club treasury for a "Living Chair." Tliis is a phase of the Universit>'*s Faculty Development Program and it implies that the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia will help sponsor a faculty tnembcr. 
Future meetings of the club include a regular' meeting on March 12 and April 9; UND Night, April 28; regular meetings on May 14; picnic in^. June; going-away party for undergraduates on September 9; regular meeting on October 8; the Army-Notre Dame game on October 12; regular-meeting, November 12; annual Communion Mass and Breakfast on December 8 and regular meet­ing on December 10. All of these dales ar con­cerned with the dub program during 1957. 
Phoenix 
The Notre Dame Club of Phoenix held their annual Communion and breakfast Sunday, Decem­ber 9, 1956. Members attended Mass at St. Agnes Churcli and then were guests of AL PICKS for breakfast at the Phoenix Country Club. We were honored by tlic presence of HERB JONES from tlic University. He gave an informal talk bringing tiic members up to date on tiie recent developments of the University and also told about the ND-USC game. 
The annual Christmas Dinner and Dance was held on ^Ycdnesday, December 2Gtli at the Town and Country Lodge. Appro.ximately tliirty couples attended. 
—GEORGE S. MARKHAM, Seo". 
Pittsburgh 
Once again, tlic Pittsburgh Club's annual golf party proved to be one of tlie most popular events of the year. Under tlic able cliairmanshtp of GENE COYNE and with the generous help and cooperation of our alumni in Butler, Pa., the party tvas held on September 5, 1956, at the Butler Coun­try- Club. Tliere were almost one hundred alumni and friends on hand for a. day of "spirited" com­petition, topped off by an excellent dinner. 
A pre-game stag smoker at the K. of C. Ifall on Friday evening, November 9, 1956, during the ND-Pitt game weekend was held, ^fcntori^g tliis pep-ra«y were BERNIE POWERS, DICK KLUCK and BILL GOMPERS. 
Tlie club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on Dec 9 at St. Mar>-*s Catholic Church. Mass u'as in the B\-zantinc Rite and the pastor of St. Mar^-'s, FATHER MICHAEL FELOCK, u-as our host at breakfast. J/VMES A. MORG*VN was cliairman in ciiarge of the event. 
The 3!st annual Christmas Ball was on Dec. 28 in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel. Proceeds were for the scholarship fund. Tlie undersigned i%'as general chairman of the affair. 

Another successful retreat u-as held at St. Paul's Retreat House mth GEORGE KINGSLEY, JR., scr\ing as chairman. Alumni assembled there be­ginning on Jan. II for three da^'S of de\*otion and meditation. 
—JIM McL.\UGHLIN, Sec>-. 
Rhode Island 

Tlie first Sunday in December u-as the 7tli fVnnual Communion and Breakfast of the Catholic College Alumni of Rhode Island. There were 465 guests present and, after attending Mass, they assembled at tlie Sheraton-Biltmore for breakfast. Rev. John Farley, chaplain of the organization, preached the sermon and the prindpal speaker at the breakfast was Rev. George Bissoncttc. Father Bissonettc \s-as tlic only Roman Catholic priest stationed in Moscow and was assigned to minister to the Catholics ^vorking at tlic American Embassy and other foreign diplomats. JOE ^fcDOXALD pre­sided at tlie head table as president of the organi­zation. The Notre Dame Alumni Club has been a leader of the Catholic Alumni group for many years. 
—PAUL HOEFFLER 
Rochester 
Tlie club held a football father and son night during October. Highlights of the 1952-53 season were shown. BILL DEMPSEY and JOE FLOOD brought back reports on the ^lichigan State and Purdue games. 
The annual Family Communion Breakfast was held on December 2 at McQuaid Jesuit High Scliool. A crowd of over 140 proud parents and screaming children were in attendance. ifary Ellen and TOM HIGGINS were co-chairmen of the affair. LEO ^\'ESLEY and ERIC SCOTT scn.cd the .\fass while JACK HE.\GNEY and JACK DUFFEY acted as ushers. A breakfast of coffee, juice and 'sweet rolls followed the Mass. 
The big social event of the holiday season was the Christmas dance held at the University Club on December 29. VIC DE SIMON and Mrs. JOHN KEEGiVN were co-chairmen. A few of those who contributed to the successful affair were LEO WESLEY, BUD H.VSTINGS and DICK SULLI­V/\N. Students were well represented, headed by the campus club president Gene Yurgcalitis. An interesting note was the attendance of several generations such as tlie Corbetts, Don, Sr., Don, Jr., and Dick. 
The Ladies Auxiliary* held their second luncheon of the season. Mrs. JOHN DORSCHEL was the chairman. Tlie highlight of the program ^v•as a discussion on "Tlie Romance of Diamonds.'* A successful fund raising project was conducted dur­ing the fall. The final returns on tlie sale of handbags were announced. Mrs. REGINALD MORRISON and Mrs. JACK HE.\GNEY headed up tlie sale. The next big event is the annual mother and daughter luncheon. 
A welcome addition to the Rocliestcr Club is BILL McaVRTY, secretary of the Boston Club. He, with numerous others attend the monthly lunclicons at tlic Hotel Rochester, held on the first Mondav of everv month. 
—BILL DEMPSEY, Secy. 

Rockford 
The Notre Dame Club of Rockford had a very successful Communion Breakfast on December 9 which was attended by 123 alumni and members of their families and friends. FATHER JOHN >VIL­SON, C.S.C., assistant director of province de­velopment at Notre Dame, gave an interesting report. We were honored in having as a guest speaker His Excellency, the Most Rev. LORAS 
T. LrVNE, Bishop of Rockford and a member of the 1932 Class. 
FATHER ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., and FATHER HAROLD RILEY, C.S.C.. represented the University at Bishop Lane's installation. About 35 members of the alumni club met in the Faust Hotel on November 19 to welcome Fathers Hope and Riley. 
Rock River Valley 
President LUKE MORIN's idea of a Family Pic­nic worked out fine tliis Fall as reflected by the attendance. There were about 100 there and I feel that each one had a good time. The afternoon was enjoyed by the "Old Folks" visiting and comparing notes on the children (also doing a litde boasting about the little onw). Games were enjoyed by the children and prizes were given to the winners. Our next event was the N.D.-Iowa bus trip for the benefit of our Scholarship Fund. Even thou^ we lost, about 125 of us had a good time. The Club can thank JOE BITrORF, DON DEAVEY and BOB McDONNELL of Steriing, RAY Dc-COURCEY, Roclielle, ED. SULLIVAN, Amboy and PAUL FRY and LUKE MORIN of DLxon for the success of this trip. On the return trip we enjoyed a tasty meal at the Blackhawk Hotel, Davenport, la., and while here we were greeted by many of the alumni in the Quad City area. 
—JOHN GAHILL, Secy. 

Saginaw Valley 
Tlie Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club has been very active, more than the rcpoijs of its secretary %vould indicate. To summarue its activities since our last report: 
August 19, 1936 was the Aimual Summer Picnic for members and their wives. It ^vas held at Hendric Woods with BOB MOSKAL, '31 as chair­man, assisted by his committee (and masters of the art of charcoal grill) BILL HENDRICK, '44, ROG HENDRICK, '43, TOM CARROLL, '41, and JOHN CARROLL, '41. Termed a great suc­cess everyone is looking for^^-ard to next year's picnic. 
ST. LOUIS—^Thc club's Christmas dance attracted alumni as well as students home for vacation. First row (left to right): Mrs. Charles Farris, Mrs. Don Doheny, Miss Clare Heyne, Miss Janne Micotto, Miss Judy Curry, Miss Carol Ries, Miss Alice Jones, Mrs. Dewey Godfrey. Second row (left to right): Father Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., club president Don Doheny, Mrs. Bea Higgins, club secretary-treasurer John F. Higgins, Jr., Mark Maley, Bud Aheam, Charles Farris, Jeanne Dunn, dance chairman Dewey Godfrey, student club 
president Matt Weis, Jr., Marshall Catanzaro, Norm Mueller and Bob Chickey. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Fib.-Mar., 1957 
as^ 

NORTHW'ESTERN OHIO—Club mcnibera enjoyed a dinner-meeting with the ladies as guests. 
The Stag Smoker for members and guests was held the night of the Southern \(ethodist-Xotrc Dome game, September 22, at Hendric Woods. 
October 20, the Saginau- Valley Notre Dome Club and the MIcliigan Univenit>' Alumni Club of Saginaw jointly sponsored an excursion to the MSU-XD game. General Chairman TOM VAN AARLE, '21, Ticket Chairman TOM CARROLL, '41, assbtcd by committeemen CARL DOOZAN, '38, TJILL HENDRICK, '44, JERRY a\RROLL, *4I.- GEORGE WARD, '40. and BOB \\TrCHGER, '40.-• 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday ^\•as held at Holv Trinity Churcli, Bay City on De­cember 16. REV. FR. BUENGER, C.S.C, cele­brated I-figh Mass, followed by breakfast and a business meeting. Father Bucnger explained how experiences and education bind tlic alumni to Notre Dame. Highlight of the meeting u*as the presentation of a check for 5500.00 by President Bill Hendrick, in b»Aalf of tlie Chib, to Father Bucnger for tlic Univ-ersity of Notre Dame Foun­dation. 
A committee was formed lo report and adnse potential students. Tlie cliairman is BILL HUR­LEY, '25 with Dr. HARRY McGEE, *44 and VINCE BOYLE, '49, as the committee. 
Bay City will hold its Tliird .-Vnnual St. Patrick*s Day Parade. TOM CARROLL and JERRY a\R­ROLL are contacting tlic Notre Dome band for the occasion. 
Tlic Annuxil Familv Commuion Breakfast will be held on Marcli 31. .\L SCHNEIDER, '39 and ROY McCOLGAN JR., '48, are co-cliairmcn. 
—ROBERT W. WrrCHGER, Secy. 
St. Joseph Valley 
Details of the club's .Annual Football Testimonial Banquet in honor of the 1956 Notre Dame team and cooclies is being printed in tlic Sports Section of tliis issue. 
Flans are being made for tlie Rockne Communion Breakfast which will probably be held on Sunday, March 31 in the Morris Inn. The Memorial Mass will be celebrated in Dillon Hall Chapel. 
iSt. Louis 
! Once again this year our annual scholarship 

'fund football trip was a success due to the efforts of GEORGE CON\'\*, JOE GOLABOWSKI and JACK GRIFFIN. Two hundred Notre Dame foot­ball fans made the trip to see the Micliigan State game. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
Dean JAMES CULLITON of the Commerce scliool, honored us with a \Tsit on November 14 and 13. During this short stay in town. Dean Culliton made five appearances before \'anous groups in the city. The Dean spoke before a gathering of high school staidents ^vho arc inter­ested in attending Notre Dame, the Scrra Club, tlic Mortgage Bankers, the Chamber of Commerce and our own Alumni Club. The fine work of the committee of BEX GERKER, BILL GEORGE and DR. BILL GILLESPIE with an assist from various club members made the visit of the Dcan*5 and outstanding club event. The alumni club met for tlic Dean's talk at the .'\nheuscr-BuscIi Brew­er>* ratliskeller. The local alumn! showed great interest in tlic Dean's report on the new program in the Commerce scliool. 
Our cliairman of the preparatory scliool com­mittee, HANK DAHM, made sure that Notre Dome was represented at all sessions of the public high scliool college day program, throughout the city. Many club members participated in tliis prognmi to answer tlie questions of high scliool students interested in Notre Dame. 

Our biggest and probably our finest Communion Breakfast was held this year on December 9, at the Church of tlie Immuculata. After attending mass the group enjoyed a very fine breakfast at the Schneithorst Restaurant. F.\THER HESBURGH was our guest for this day. One hundred and sLxty­two people bra\*cd the icy roads to attend this breakfast to hear Father Hesburgh's fine talk on Notre Dame and its future. The breakfast cliair­man BOB SURKAMP and his committee of JOHN H/VFF and TOM HENNIGAN did a fine job of arranging this breakfast. 
Once again this year the Notre Dame Alumni-Student Christmas dance ^*'as a huge success. Five hundred people were in attendance at this year's donce which was held in the Gold Room of the Siieraton-JcfTcrson hotel on December 28. Much of the credit for this fine turnout should be given to tlie dance cliairman DEWEY GODFREY. DCTVCV %vas assisted by BOB CHICKEY, PHIL HIGGINS and BOB HOYNECK. The proceeds will once again go to the scholarship fund. 
This year the NCAA convention was held in St. Louis. Club president DON DOHENY was able to arrange an impromptu lunclicon on Friday, January 11, for the N'otre Dame delegates to the convention. FATHER JOYCE and MOOSE. KRf\USE were :iblc to Join us for this lunch. Many of the otlicr Notre Dame alumni who were in town for this convention also honored us with their presence. Due to the shoit notice of this luncheon an effort \vns made by TOM McGUIRE and JIM WALSH to contact as many alumni as possible by phone so that we might have a large group to greet Father and Moose. There \verc fifty people in attendance at this lunch, which was held at the Sheraton-JcfTcrson hotel. 
JACK SULUVAN, chairman for our chib re­treat this year, reports that the response for reser­vations for the retreat to be held at Notre Dame on May 11 and 12, has been most encouraging. Jack hopes to have fifty or sixty alumni make this retreat. 
Our spring meeting will be held on March 4, when TERRY BRENNAN will be our guest at the Univxrsity club. Our monthly luncheons are still being held at the Ke>- club of the Sheraton-Jefferson hotel the second Monday of each montli, all alumni in tmvn any of these dav's are welcome to attend. 
—JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR., Sec-Treas. 

Shreveport 
On October 27, 1956, the Shreveport (La.) Club Iield its annual election of officers for the following year. Officers arc as follows: 
President, GEORGE J. DESPOT, '45; \nce-Prcsident, JOSEPH McKE.\N, '32; Secretary-Treas­urer, LOUIS MOOSEY, '49. 
A committee has been appointed to handle the 

DEN\'ER—Alullcn High School, Colorado parochial champions, received the cIuVs Rockne Memorial Trophy for 1956. Left lo right: Assistant coach Sam Jar\-is; Brother ^Villiam, Mullen athletic director; head coach Frank Norton; club president Art Gregor>-; and co-captains Terry McCormack and Tom Deem. 
Class of 1928 cocktail party at the Morris Inn on October 27, 1936 included (left to right): Front row, seated—^Wm. Kirwan, John I^cy , Dennis Daly. Second row, kneeling—Joseph Doran, Louis Buckley, James Canizaro, Frank Creadon, Ray Mulligan, Chas. Schucssler, Glen Hatch, Donald Corbctt, Roger Breslin, George Covert. Standing—John Frederick, Gus Jenkins, Jerry DcClercq, Ed Quinn, Bob ^Vinter, Joe Geraghty, Tom Hart, Joe Canty, Ed Rafter, Ed Duffy, Norb Seidensticker, Swede Schroedcr, Dick Phelan, Chas. Topping, Augie Grams, Arthur Miller, Gordon Bennett, Jack Shecdy, J. E. Carlin, Joe Morrissey. Those attending the party who do not appear in the picture are the following: Joe Hilger, Bill Kearney, Henry Massman, Wm. H. Murphy, Dick Quinlan, B. R. Schuh and Art Zimmerman. 
arrangements for a group trip to the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game in Norman, Oklahoma, in 1937. 
—GEORGE J. DESPOT, Pres. 

South Carolina 
The club*5 organizational meeting took place on St. Patrick's Day in 1956 with a get-together at Columbia. The second event \v-as UND Night held on April 9 In Aiken. Another successful afTair was the "Beer Blast" on Sullivan's Island August 17-19. 
Universal Xotre Dame Communion Sunday was celebrated in conjunction with a retreat conducted by the Dominican Fathers at our Lady of Spring-bank Retreat House, Kingstrcc, So. Car., Decem­ber 14, 15 and 16. 
New officers arc as follows: president, GEORGE 

S. NICHOLS, JR.; vice-president, J.\MES G. CROWLEV, JR.; secretary, Jx\MES J. CONDON; and treasurer, J. C. McMANUS. 
—JAMES J. CONDON, Seo". 

South Jersey 
The club's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 9 at Christ tlie King Church, Haddonfietd, and breakfast at Johnnie's Inn. Guest speakers included club cliaplain FATHER HxVY-DEN and TOM KEN'NEY. Co-cliairmen of the Communion Breakfast were BOB MURPHY and FR.VNK McVDAMS. 
Terre Haute 
An October meeting was called for all Club members to set up a fall and winter program. A committee ^vas appointed to make plans and ar­rangements for a dinner-dance for all dub mem­bers and guests held on January 19 at the Terre 
•Haute Countr>* Chib. TIic committee consisted of JOHN F. P. MURPHY, DICK KELLEY and BERNIE BURDICK. 
JOHN BOYER, JAMES BOYER and FRED CHRISTMAN were on the committee for Notre Dame Communion Sunday, held December 9th at St. Margaret Mar>-'s Church. It was ver>' grati­fying to have a good attendance for this important occasion and the breakfast that followed. 
Plans arc pending for the Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute to present an annual award to out­standing Sclmltc Catholic High School student at the close of the scliool year. 
—JAMES BOYER, Seci*. 

Toledo 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo sponsored two football trips tliis past year, one to the Michigan State game (ugh!) and the other to the North Carolina game (hooray!). The Toledo Club han­dled the Michigan State trip imalded and had a 300 person sellout. North Carolina trip tickets were sold in conjunction uith the Toledo Junior Cham­ber oE Commerce and the Aliunni ^Kssodatlon of Central Catholic High School. 
JIM BRITT and Dx\N N0^\T: E co-chalrmanned 

the Mlcliigan State excursion, while JIM COONEY 
and BOB KOPF coordinated the North Carolina 
trip. 
The annual Christmas formal of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo was held this year on December 28, 1956, from 9:30-1:30 in the Ballroom of the Commodore Perry Hotel. 
The committee consisted of: J^VMES SHERER, chairman; FR.\NK VENNER, publidty; JAMES GAR\1N, entertainment; JAMES 0'SHE.V, deco-rau'ons; CHARLES COMES, rescr\-atIons, and ROBERT SCHR.\MM, floral arrangements. 
Tulsa 
Scholarship Fund: The success of a special foot­ball train and rafHc Iield during November Insured new scholarships next year for additional boys from the Tulsa area. Tlie train \\as handled by DAVE THORNTON and LEO FAGAN ^^-as chairman of the raffle. 
Retreat: Grand Lake, Oklalioma, was the scene of the Club's first annual Retreat. The spiritual exercises were held on December 8-9 in order to tic In with N- D. Universal Communion Sunday. In spite of very adverse weather conditions, about 25 members attended and were enthusiastic In their response. Father Charles Statham, Club Chap-Iain, u-as Retreat Master and BOBBY SIEGFRIED and BOB M.-VN'NIX were co-diairmen. 
Christmas Dance: Over 500 guests enjoyed the Club's traditional Christmas Dance whldi was held at tlie Cimarron Ballroom on December 27. TIic decorations were the most attractive of any in the last several years, and highball glasses with special 
N.D. monograms were given to all guests as me­mentos of the Dance. FRjVNK REIDY was dance chairman and B.VRNEY SULLIVAN A>as In diarge of decorations. 
Stag Dinner: On Januar>' 28, a large number of members attended the Club's annual stag dinner. Since this Is an ofT year, new officers were not elected. Tlie party was held at the Bam of the Bliss Hotel, and a steak dinner, preceded by a cocktail hour (?) was the principal attraction. 
—BOB ALVNNIX, Secy. 

Washington, D. C. 
The club has had many interesting events in recent months Including the football rally and donee held the night before the Na%-y-Notre Dame game, the football smoker in honor of JOE KUIIARICH, Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on December 9 and the annual Christmas dance on December 29. 
BILL McGLOON was chairman of the football smoker honoring Coach Joe Kuharidi of the Wash­ington. Redskins. The event took place on Octo­ber 17 at the Touchdown Club and featured speak­ers included Judge Leonard Walsh and Assodate Judge Thomas Scallcy. 
GAYLORD HA.'VS was general chairman of the football rally and dance on November 2. JOE BOLfVND was master of ceremonies for the speak­ing program and the event was held at the Shera­ton-Park Hotel. 
Prindpal speaker at the Communion Breakfast ^vas Major Gen. Patrick J. Ryan, chief of chap* lalns, U. S. Array. Msgr. Ryan has been a member of the Chaplains Corps since 1928. The Mass was celebrated at Holy Cross College and breakfast wzis ser\-ed in the refectory. PAUL FISHER uas dialr­maa of the event. 
West Virginia 
The annual "Holidays Cocktail Party** %%-as held on December 27th at the Berry Hills Country Club. The group Induded sevent^'-five members, wives, and guests. 
The local dub members offer best wishes to Mr. and Mrs. R. A. HART, *53, who are leaving to live In Aruba, Dutdi West Indies, where Bob will work for the Standard Oil Company. 
Best wishes also to BOB SC^VLISE, '56, who after a short employment here ^nth Goodrich Gulf, has been called to return to active duty In the Armed Forces. 
—LVRRY HESS, '38, Secy. 

Western Washington 
The dub had a successful smoker In honor of JOHN a\STELLANI, new coach of the Seattle University basketball team and former Notre Dame assistant coach. AL TOTH was in charge of the event held at the. K. of C. Hall on October 23. 
The dub's annual Communion Breakfast was held on December 2 \ti*Ith Mass in St. James Cathedral and breakfast ser\*ed In the Hotel Sorrento. Judge-elect- F. A. Waltersklrdien was prindpal speaker and BOB STE^VART \%-as chairman of the affair. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb,-Mar., 1937 31 
Engagements 

Miss Marilvnn Hcdrict and JOHN R. BENDER, •49. Miss Maureen Katlicrine McCulIough and ED­WARD J. CAMPBELL, JR., '30. Miss Marianne Claire Piazza and LEO A. COLE­MAS, '50. Miss Jane Ellen LefHcr and TERE.VCE C. BRADY, JR., '52. Miss Maureen Boland and LT. JOHN A. MAN­NING, '52. Mbs Elizabeth Heatli Harlow and ALj^N O. PANDO, '53. Miss Barbara Joan Taccctta and FR^VNCIS R. S.ANT.tNGELO, '53. Miss Helen Hope Hughes and PAUL E. FORS­MAN, JR., '54. Miss Eileen McCarthy and THOMAS ^L Mc-KEON, '54. Miss Margaret .Alice Kenncll and DAVID D. WILSON', '54. Miss Eileen d'Esterhaz>- and Ens. LAWRENCE C. BUCKLEY, '33. 
Marriages 

Miss Margaretta Courtnev and JOHN T. HIG­GINS, "22, Detroit, Mich.,' December 27, 1956. 
Miss Dale Anne Dacier and NICHOLAS J. ME.4GHER, JR., '39, Brookline, Mass., November 10, 193G. 
Miss Nancy Carr and AUGUSTIN S. HARDART, JR., '42, New York, N. Y,, September 8, 1956. Miss Kitty Clearj- and THOMAS SNYDER, '47, Soraen-ille, N. J., July 7, 1936. Miss Rosemar>' Coiuielly Casey and CHiVRLES 
C. CARTER, '49, Pittsburgh, Pa., November 24, 1936. Mbs Sandra Voss and ROBERT J. KRiVJEW-SKI, '50, Elkhom, Wis., November 24, 1936. 
Miss Mary Adlyn McMahon and EDWARD D. MCCARTHY', 'SO, New Orleans, La., November 24, 1956. 
Miss Ann Cecelia Smith and ROBERT M. RIOR­DAN, '30, Linden, N. J., Oaober 13, 1956. 
Miss Marda Joan Porter and THOMAS E. SHERER, '30, Hartford, Conn., September 8, 1936. 
Miss Georgia Milbum Smith and CHARLES B. DULLEA, '32, Ne%v York, N. Y., September 22, 1936. 
Miss Mar^- Ellen Flaherty and FRANCIS G. RONNENBERG, '32, Wliitc Plains, N. Y., Novem­ber 3, 1936. 
Mbs Caroh-n Divcn and JOH.X H. SCHEIBEL­HUT, Indianapolis, Ind., November 10, 1956. Miss Lorraine Marie Moorman and DR. VIRGIL VOSS, '32, Joliet, III., September 1, 1956. Mbs Dorothy Lansdalc and WILLIAM E. BA­LOK, '53, South Bend, Ind., October 6, 1956. Mbs Mildred Lucille Stevens and LT. EDU'ARD 
R. BYRNE, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., November 3, 1956. Mbs Carol E. Graliam and JUSTIN L. MORAN, '54, York, Pa., October 6, 1956. Miss Grace Gloria Milose and GERALD TUR­
LEY, '54, San Diego, Calif., November 24, 1956. Miss Katherinc McDonnell Shanlej- and GEORGE 
M. CARHART, '55, Rumson, N. J., October 6. 1955. Mbs Joanna Martin Parks and IVAN HUS­OVSKY, '33, Hamden, Conn., September 29, 1936. 
Miss Marj- Ellen Bricn and LT. TIPTON N. PATTON, JR., '33, Fitchburg, Mass., October 27, 1956. 
Miss Kathleen Ann Abel and DAVID M. CUR­RY, '56, Notre Dame, Ind., October 2, 1956. Mbs Diane Elbe Goldsmith and BERNARD 
N. DEL BELLO, JR., '36, Point Lookout, L. I., New York, December 29, 1956. 
Miss Suzanne Jane Frchse and THOMAS K. McCLUHAN, '56, South Bend, Ind., December 29, 1936. 
Mbs Dorotliy Sue Jenkins and DA\aD N. PFAFF, '56, Naples, Fla., December 29. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
~1»­
isuVA- ^-^ "" '• «L* ••\%S'* 
Miss Sharon Irene Doyle and WILLIAM H. SCHELLONG, JR., '36, Misha«-aka, Ind., Sep­tember 29, 195G. 
-Miss Patricia Chacliulski and ROBERT R. SKUDLJ\REK , '5G, Notre Dame, Ind., September 29, 1956. 
Miss Frances Ann Catanzaritc and DAVID C. THO.MAN, '36, .Votre Dame, Ind., November 3, 1936. 
Births 

Mr. and -Mrs. EDWARD M. .MORAN, '34, a son, Edward Martin, Jr., November 23, 1956. .Mr. and Mrs. EDMOND R. HAGGAR, '38, a son, October 1956. .Mr. and .Mrs. LOUIS J. DE.MER, '39, a son, Daniel Gerard, November 26, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. McDONOUGH, '41, a son, Francb Joseph III, November 19, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. DAVE MONCRIEF, '41, a daugh­ter, Mar\' Margaret, October 4, 1936. .Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD F. BREHL, '42. a daughter, Mary Ellen, September 8, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. DOMINIC F. BOETTO, '44, a son, Paul Vincent, November 5, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. MILFORD, '44, a son, Todd Edward, October 24, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT S. ^VITTE, '44, a daugh­ter, Elizabeth, November 7, 1956. Lt. and -Mrs. VERNE R. HUBKA, '46, a daugli­tcr, Teresa Ann, September 18, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. ^URTlN, '47, a daugh­ter, Nancy Loube, November 5, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. MILLIGAN, JR., '47, a daughter, October 7, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. RUSSELL J. FARRELL, '48, a son, Russell, Jr., December 17, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD F. GASS, JR., '48, a daughter, Janet Ruth, November 23, 1936. Dr. and Mrs. DAVID S. GREER, '48, a son, Jeffrey Jay, November 21, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. ^^'EILER, '48, a son, Paul AVilliam, October 18, 1936. .Mr. and -Mrs. GERALD J. CORRGAN, '49, a son, Allen Francis, October 14, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK H. MEE.NAN, '49, a son, Michael James, December 24, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD D. SIMMONS, '49, a son, October 13, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. SWEENEY, '49, a daughter, Mary Anita. September 30, 1956. Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN FREDLAKE, '50, a daugh­tcr, October 19, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. JERO.ME J. TERHAAR, JR., '30, a daughter, Mary Frances, July 25, 193S. ilr. and Mrs. JAMES H. BRENNAN, '52, a son, James William, November 6, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS X. DRISCOLL, '32, a son, Martin Leo, July 1, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID MORIARTY, '52, a daugh­ter, Maureen Anne, October 8, 1936. Lt. and Mrs. WILLIAM FLICK, '53, a son, William Micliael, November II, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK J. MONTROY, '53, a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, November 7, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. WTBSTER J. ARCENEAUX, Jr., '54, a son, Webster, June 1, 1956. 
Lt. and Mrs. THO.MAS M. COZ.AD, '33, a daughter, Christine Elizabeth, September II, 1956. Lt. and Mrs. JOHN P. PITARESSI, '56, a 
daughter, Rosanne, October 6, 1936. 
Sympatiiy 

Mrs. Mar>- L^-ons, Oneida, N. Y., a sbter of REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., presi­dent of the University of Notre Dame, died January 10 in Oneida. She is survived by her husband; four children; her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Theodore 
B. Hcsburgh, of S>xacuse, N. Y.; a brother, JAMES, '55; and uvo sisters. Funeral services were held Saturday, January 12, with Father Hcsburgh officiating. 
CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, '13 and JOSEPH E. BROUSSARD, JR., '26, on the death of their father, October 6, 1936. 
ALFRED R. ABRAMS, '21, on the death of his 

brotiier, November 3, 1936. 
GEORGE COURY, '28, on the death of his 

mother, November, 1956. 
ALFRED SCHNURR, '28, on. the death of his 

son, October 6, 1936. 
HUGH C. MITCHELL, JR., '30, on the deaUi 

of hb father, HUGH C , SR., '95, November 20, 
1936. 
WALTER R. RIDLEY, '31, and JOHN J. RID­

LEY, '42, on tlic death of their mother, December 
I, 1956. 
WILLIAM C. BLIND, '32, and THOMAS 

BLIND, '54, on tlie deatli of tlieir father, October 
16, 1956. 
CHRISTOPHER REILLY, '33, and JAMES 

REILLY, '48, on tlic death of their mother, October 
4, 1956. 
PAUL A. FERGUS, '35, and FRrWClS E. FER­

GUS, '40, on Uie death of their fatlier January- 6. 
HARRY P. BECKER, '36, on Uic death of his 

father, November 12, 1956. 
PHILIP NORTH, '39, on the death of his father, 

October 16, 1936. 
JAMES E. RO&\P, JR., '39, on the death of 

his mother, December 1, 1956. 
JOHN WOLF, '40. on the death of hb mother, 

November, 1956. 
JOSEPH BROUSSARD II, '41, JOSEPH POLK, 

'50, and H. P. WOOD, '32, on the death of their 
grandfather, October 6, 1956. 
JOHN McH.\LE, '43, and THOMAS McHALE, 

'50, on tlie death of their father. 
ERNEST A. DE ROSA, JR., '49, on the death 

of hb fatlier, Julv 21, 1956. 
JOSEPH F. O'BRIEN, '49, on the death of his 

father Jaimary 17, 1957. 
ROLAND C. BERNHOLD, '36, on the death of 

hb father December 12, 1936. 
Obituary 

EUGENE P. MELADY, SR., '87, died January- 16 in Omalia, Nebraska. Mr. Mclady was captain of Notre Dame's first football team in IB87 and was one of t^vo 5ur\'ivors of that group. He was a familiar figure as the "grand old man" of the Nebraska sports world. Mr. Mclady managed the famous wrestler Joe Stechcr, lica\yw(HgIit cham­pion, and later was associated with Earl Caddock who was to dctlironc Steelier. For many years he promoted WTCStling and boxing matches in the Omaha area. Mr. Mclady was president of Mcl­ady Brothers, Inc., livestock commission firm, until his retirement about one year ago. He received national fame for sending individualized St. Pat­rick's Day cards to hundreds of friends eacli year. Mr. Mclady is surxnvcd by his wife, Hilma, a son, Eugene P., Jr., and three grandcJiildren. A Requiem ^fass was held at Chrht the King Churcli in Omaha. 
FRANCIS H. BOLAND, '89, of San Francisco, 
Calif., died October 8, 1956. Sur\'ivors include 
two sons, FRANCIS H. J., '19, and STUART M., 
'19. 
HUGH C. MITCHELL, SR., '95 renowned as­tronomer and gcodcsist died of a heart attack November 20, 1956, in Washington, D. C. Mr. Mitclicll, wiio served for about 40 years witli the Coast and Geodetic Sur\'cy before his retirement in 1945, u-as noted for calculating astronomic ob­servations made by .-\dmiral Pcarj* during -his North Pole expedition in 1909. Mr. Mitcliell taught engineering astronomy at Catholic University from 1926 to 1934 and was tlie author of many technical publications. He is survived by a son, HUGH C , JR., '30, a daughter, a brother and two grand­cltildrcn. 
JOSE M. FALOMIR, '02, died fn Chihualiua, Mexico, October 18, 1956. He is survived by his wife and sons. 
FR^VNGIS O- GAUKLER, 'M, died September ' 29, 1956, in Detroit, Mich. Mr. Gaukler was well-known in insurance and amusement enterprises j in Detroit. He is survived by his wife. 
FRANK G. SWONK, '05, died on January- 17, 1957, in South Bend, Ind. He played football for Notre Dame in 1897. Mr. Swonk was a retired salesman for the Phoenbc Manufacturing Co. He is survived by his vvidow, Margaret, a daughter, Mrs. Francis Bender, South Bend, Ind.; a son, Ralph, of North HoIl>^vood, Calif.; t\vD brothers, ^ four sisters and five grandcliildrcn. Funeral ser%'­ices were held in St. Patrick's Catholic Churcli with burial in Rlverv-icw Ccmetcrv*. 
THOMAS A. HAMMER, '06, died No%-ember 22, 1956. Survivors include a brother, the Hon. ERN­EST E. L. HA.MMER, 'Of. 
STEPHEN V. CAULEY, '12, Robinson, III., 

died December 17, 1936. Sur\'i\'ors include a son, 
CHARLES M., '52. 
Hon. JOSEPH F. SMITH, '14, former police 

prosecutor, municipal judge and assistant city law 
director in Cleveland, died January 13, 1957. Mr. 
Smith, a leader in the afTairs of the Knights of 
Columbus, was a former grand knight of Gilmour 
Council and a past deputy of the Cleveland district. 
He is sur\-ived by his wife, four sons and three 
daughters. 
JAMES W. LAWLER, '15, Oil City, Pa., died 

November 27, 1956, after several months illness. 
Before his retirement, Afr. Laivler was employed by 
the Ohio Oil Company as superintendent of tlic 
Pipeline Di\ision in ^Vyoming. He is survived by 
his ivife, one sister and a brother. 
HENRY J. BROSNAHAN, '17, died July 17, 

1952, according to information just recei\'ed in the 
Alumni Office. 
BERNARD H. MILLER, '17, Racine, Wis., died 

October 8, 1956. He was secretaryrtreasurcr of 
Miller Bros. Agency, Inc., an insurance firm. Mr. 
Miller, a veteran of World War I, was a member 
of St. Rose Church, the Knights of Columbus, 
Elks, Racine Country Club, Wisconsin Association 
of Insurance Agents, Rotary Club and the Notre 
Dame Alumni Club. Survivors include his wife, 
three sons, a daughter, six. grandchildren and a 
brother, GROVER, '16. 
The MOST REV. EDUIN V. 0»HARA, D.D., died on September 11, 1956. He received an 
honorary degree irom the University of T^otre 'Dame 
in 1917. 
DONAT PEPIN, M7, Femdale, Afich., died 

October 14, 1956. Mr. Pepin is survived by his 
wife, two daughters and a son. 
CLAUDE R. YOCKEV, '17, Alpena, Mich., died February 14, 1956, according to information received in tlie Alumni Office. 
DAVID V. HAYES, '21, former Notre Dame and professional football star, died November 14, 1956, at Manchester Memorial Hospital, Manchester, Conn., after suffering a heart attack. Between his junior and senior years, Mr. Hayes scr\x*d \rith tlie Army overseas in \Vorld War I. He returned to Notre Dame and played on the imbcaten, untied Rockne teams of 1919 and 1920. After graduation, he played professional football with the Green Bay Packers. Sur\*i\'ors include his widow and three sons. (A feature article on Dave Hayes is planned for a future issue of the Alumnus.) 
REV. BERNARDINE D^VMICE, '22, died Janu­ar.- 22, 1955. REV. EDMUND FERSTL, O.S.B., '23, St. Ber­nard, Ala-, died June 26, 1956. 
Dr. HAR\^EY F. BROWN, '24, 'Svatch ciiarm" guard and captain of the 1923 Notre Dame foot­ball team, died Januar>* 13, 1957, in Mt. Carmcl Merc>' Hospital, Detroit. Dr. Brown had been ill for a nimibcr of months with heart disease. He had practiced in Detroit since 1928 after gradua­tion from St. Louis University Medical School. At Notre Dame he played guard on the Four Horse­men team and later ser\'cd as volunteer coach at the University of Detroit—^in that year the Titans enjoyed an unbeaten season. During his senior year. Dr. Brown was named guard on ^\''altcr Camp's second All-Amcrican team. He was a mem­ber of the American College of Surgeons, the Knights of Columbus and had scri'cd as prestdenC of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. Survivors besides his wife Natalie are sue children, Har\'ey, Jr., TTiomas, Martin, Dennis, ^far>• Ellen and Bar­bara. A Requiem Mass was held at Gcsu Church with burial in Holy Sepulchre Cemetery. 
JAMES R. ADAMS, '25, chairman of the board of MacManus, John & Adams, Bloomfield Hills, Midi., a well-known advertising firm, died Novem­ber 6, 1956. ^^r. Adams, a veteran of more than 30 years in advertising, was the author of sevcnd works on creative advertising. 
R^U'MOND C. CUNNINGHAM, '25, owner of the Moffett Studios, a Birmingham, Mich., photo­graphic firm, died Kovcmber 3, 1956. Survivors include his wife, one son and his father. 
ALBERT J. DE LORENZI, '25, died in his home in Dallas, Tex., on October 9, 1956, following a heart attack. Mr. Dc Lorcnzi was employed as a chemist for the Coca-Cola Botth'ng Company of Dallas. He is surx-ived by a brother and two sisters. 
STANLEY J. (Gov) WALSH, '27, died on Janu­ary 13 after suffering a heart attack. He is sur­vived by his widow, Alice S. Walsh. Further details were unavailable when the Alumnus went to press. 
JOHN M. DUGAN, '27, Kansas City, Mo., died December 13, 1956, He is surxived by his wife, a daughter, a son, one grandcliild and a brother. 
THOMAS F. FARLEY, JR., '27, Jamestown, 
New York, died April 16, 1956, according to infor­
mation received in the Alumni Office from his son. 
PAUL E. FRANTZ, '27, died October 13, 1956, 
in Cleveland, Ohio. Sur\*i\*ors include his xvife, 
Frances. 
THO.MAS A. McKIERNAN, '27, Fort Wayne, 
Ind., died December 30, 1956, in his home after 
suffering a heart attack. He was senior Wce­
prcsidcnt of the Fort Wa>Tie National Bank and 

serv-cd on the board of directors of the Xfagnavox 
Corporation. He also was a director of Me>'er 
Bros. Drug Co., Fort Wayne Drug Co., and the lay 
ad\-isor>- board of St, Frands College. Mr. Mc-
Kieman is survived by his wife and three sons. 
JOHN A. MULLEN, '28, died October 15, 1956, 
in his home in Bronxville, N. Y. He is survived by 

his uifc, three daughters, his mother and two 
brothers. 
EDWARD B. CVRROLL, '29, of Fremont, Ohio, 

died December 19, 1956, of a heart attack. Mr. 
Carroll was well known in the Sandusky area, 
haring conducted a number of businesses there for 
15 years. Ifc is survived by his vWdov**, three 
daughters, two sons, two grandchildren and a 
brother. 
CILVRLES HOOVER, '29, died October 27, 1951, 

according to information just received in the Alumni 
Office. 
I\^.\N J. LeBL.\NC, *29, Alpena, Mich, attorney, ciric leader and former municipal judge, died November 17, 1956, in his home after suffering a heart attack. He xvas a member of the Michigan State Bar Association, the Knights of Columbus, Lions Club, was cliairman of tlie Alpena County Republican Committee for 13 years, chairman of the Red Cross Chapter for a number of years and served on the Draft Board. He ""as also a member of the Holy Name Society, the Ushers Club and a member of the /Vlpena United Fund board of directors. Survivors include his wife, two daugh­ters, a son, four sisters and a brother. 
JOHN M. STACKPOOLE, '29, Detroit, Mich., died November 1, 1956. He is sur\ived by his wife and four sons. 
HOWARD M. O'PREY, '30, died in February. 1956. Survivors include his wife who resides at lIU So. Thomas St., Arlington. Va. 
RICHARD W. GIROUX, '31, records adminis­trator for the National Security Agency, died Janu­ar>-7 at the National Institute of Health after an illness of several months. Before entering the Army during World War II, Mr. Giroux taught drama and speech at St. Mary's High School, Muskegon, Mich. Later he ser\'cd as a junior arcliivist with the National Archives. He \vas a member of dte Elks, Knights of Columbus and the Notre Dame Club of Washington. Survivors include his widow, two sons, his mother and a sister. 
JAMES H. KELLEHER, '32, died in December, 1956. Survivors include his xridow who resides at 721 Dean Street, Kent, Washington. 
GEORGE F. SEELINGER, '32, Sea Cliff, N. Y., died in 1951 according to information recently received in the Alumni Office. 
JOHN N. NLVDDOCK, '35, Los Alamos, N. M., died in March, 1956. ALBERT A. BUTLER, '37, Cleveland, Ohio, died October 9, 1956. 
HENRY STEINER, '37, died ^farch 27, 1952, according to information just received in the Ahunni Office. 
JAMES ^L JONES, '38, Kellogg, Idalio, died April 12, 1955. 
CURTIS R. SHOOK, '42, died in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, after a year's illness. He is survived by his wife, one daughter, a son, his father and a brother. 
DONALD J. HOWARD, '45, died of a heart attack In Dayton, Ohio, August 2, 1956. Survivors include his parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. E. Howard, 3 King Avenue, Albany, N. Y. 
PETER J. CVSTELLI, '47, died in 1952 accord­ing to information received in the .Alumni Office from his father. 
DR. RUSSELL S. UNDERWOOD, '47, died November 3, 1956, following a brief illness. At the time of Ids death, he was practicing pediatrics in ^fiami and South Miami. Dr. Underwood, who resided at 6543 S.W. 77tli Terrace, South Miami, Florida, is survived by his wife and one daughter. 
LEONARD A. WALL, '47, Fort Wayne, Ind., was killed in an auto accident on August 5, 1936. Surxivors include his wife, ^vho resides at 345 Pasadena, Fort ^VavTie, Ind. 
ALPHONSE E. CONWAY, JR., '50, Shamokin, Pa., died in October, 1956. He is survived by his parents- and one brother. 
1907 
?oyt)4k' 
kj f^timion 
Fred L. Steers 

1911 
103 S. LaSaUc St. Chicago 3, lUinoh 

1912 
1 F^«»J )• Juiltr 
7 I 7-t^-b-' I 
Paul R. Byrne 

1913 
Box 46 Notre Dame, Indiana 

1914 ^'^^ O'NeiU 
• ^ 1350 No. Black Oak Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 

19 1 C James E. Sanford 
• '^ 1429 W. Farragut Avenue Chicago 40, Illinois 

After two successful business careers, one before and one after retirement some years ago, L. D. KEESLAR has sold his home in Chicago and pur­chased a ranch house in Florida to which he and Mrs, Kecslar moved late in December- His new address is 1716 Birmingham .Alabama Grove, TIcc, Florida, He extends a cordial in\itation to mem­bers of the class to visit his home and those w^ho enjoy fishing are urged to bring along tackle. 
Dr. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, president of Hun­ter College, was one of three upon whom the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters was conferred at a ThanksgiWng con\-ocatioa by Dr. Louis Finkel­stein. Chancellor of the Jwvish Theological Semi­nary of America at New York. 
At the height of the Hungarian rexislt, George appeared on the Garroway NBC program with comments concerning the background and the per­sonalities concerned. Needless to say his intimate knmvledge of the Hungarian internal conditions led him to predict accurately the future outcome which is now history. 
1916 ^'^^^^ ^- Miller 
612 Wisconsin Avenue 
Racing Wisconsin 

EDG.AR KOBAK, New York business consultant, uill head the 1957 Easter Sale appeal in New York City. Afr. Kobak, in addition to serving as a direc­tor of tlie Miles Laboratories of Elkhart, Ind., and of the S. & C. Electric Company, Chicago, is a trustee of the National Society for Crippled Chil­dren and Adults. 
Dear Grove: 
Thought you'd like some news of our classmates. I had a note from DEWALD McDONALD saying the reason he missed the class reunion last June u-as that he was selling out his company to Textron, Inc. (His company was the Hall-Mack Co., manu­facturers of bathroom fixtures). He is sailing this week from New York with his wife on the "Caro­nia" on a trip around the ^vorld ending Up in Cali­fornia in April. He is retiring in 1958. His brother BREEN (Class I9I7 I believe) who was 
Notre Dame AtumnuSj Feb.'Mar., 1957 33 
CANADA—An outstanding club affair was the cocktail and dinner party held for members and guests at the Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal. Those attending included: Standing: left to right, P. Reiner, Mrs. Reiner, Jack Langlois, Mrs. Langlois, Mrs. Olwell, G. Olwell, Mrs. Hart, Mike Hart, Ed Mulcair, Jim Fayette, Mrs. Byrnes, Mark Lonergan, Bob Byrnes, Mrs. Aube, Phil Aube, Charlotte Quite and Jean Masicotte. Sitting: left to right, Bill Santel, Mrs. Santel, Bob Heneault, Mrs. Hencault, Rev. Paul Kingston, C.S.C., Mrs. Mulcair, Paul La Framboise, Mrs. La Framboise, Brother Jerome, Mrs. Brcnnan and Joe Brennan. 
die San Francisco rcprcscnlalivc of llic company school policies and conduct an immediate and long-nie. I sincerely sympathize with his family. Dave retired last July. Tlieir youngest brotlicr, Jim, has range development program. was an exceptionally fine man, and a loyal Notre a five year contract to run the company as a sub­Dame alumnus." sidiary of "Textron. Inc." De Wald lives in Los From GEORGE MEREDITH: "Your letter ar­
191 8 <^corge E. Harbert 

Angeles. Tliat is wlicrc tlicir factory is. rived when I was away from the office, and al-Hope vou Iiad a good Holiday season. • ' • *' 500 Rock Island Bank BIdg. tliough I regretted to learn of Dave Hayes* death, —LOU KEIFER. Rock Island, Illinois 
it ^v-as kind of you to let me know." From JOE MAAG: "I was ver>' sorry to hear 191 7 Edward J. McOsker of tlie death of Dave Hayes. And It was thought­
191 9 Theodore C. Radcmakcr 

ful of you to write mc about it. 
' ' " 2203 Briarwood Road Peru Foundry Company Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio Peru, Indiana 
"A recent issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus told of another classmate's death, JIM CULLI­GAN. It seemed only a short while before that 
1920 J^^i^ ^* ^y^^ I had a pleasant visit with Jim and his wife in 
AOyeRU 

Portland, Oregon. Jim reminded nie at the time 
107 Magee Ave. 

of an incident that I had forgotten. I introduced 
Rochester 10, N. Y. 

Jim to his future wife at one of the football 
deumon 

Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. BALFE recently an­games at Notre Dame. nounced tlic engagement of their daughter, Anita, *'I was sorry I could not join you at the altunni June i to Hugh F. Bradicv- of Scranton, Pa. 
reunion this spring. I u-as in Florida at the time I 1-8-9 A enjoying an extended vacation and getting re­acquainted with a couple of grandchildren in 
iBMMll 1921 ^^ ^^'- ^"^y Miami. 
• '^ ' 1101 N.B.C. BIdg. "It is alu-a>-s good to hear from you, Dan. My 
Cleveland 14, Ohio very best wishes and tlianks again for letting me know about Dave." 
Sc\-eral letters ^vcrc received from classmates 

BERNARD J. VOLL, president of Siblc>- Machine regarding the death of DA\'X HAYES. From Rev. A letter from BILL ALLEN brings news of a and Foundry Corporation, SoutJi Bend, has been ROBERT J. SHEEH.VX, C.S.C.: "It was thought­Commnuion Mass with breakfast at the Brev'ort appointed a cliartcr member of the Board of Lay ful of you to notify mc of Dave Hayes' death. As Hotel, Chicago. Tlic Mass was arranged by Judge Trustees of Trinity College, Washington, D. C. I do not know his address, would you kindly ROGER KILEY and CHET WTNNE and they Tlic nc\Wy created board will concern itself irfth forward the enclosed "In Mcmoriam" card for attended along with GEORGE WITTERIED, JACK 
ST, LOUIS—Father Hesburgh was the guest speaker at the club's annual Communion Breakfast. Left to right: John F. Higgins III, Mrs. Bea Higgins, club secretary-treasurer John F. Higgins, Jr., Mrs. Robert Surkamp, breakfast chaimian Bob Surkamp, Father Hesburgh, club president Don Doheny, Mrs. Catherine Doheny and Dr. Matt Weis. 
34 Notre Dame AlumnuSj Feb.-Mar.^ 1957 
KENNEDY, JERO.ME DIXON, OJAY LARSON, humanly po:>sibIe to make us happy and comfortable be our last day on the slopes. The bo>-s will HUNK ANDERSON, GUS DESCH and BILL at their Nllchlgan charm spot. And, as if they did drive back to Dcnvxr with us and will take the-ALLE.\. not do enough for us last time, they are in again train from there late Saturday for Chicago anci ^vith an Inflation to our Class for a repeat per­N.D. Elolse and I plan to continue west to Los­1 922 ^"^^ A- ^be formance at Diamond Lake. Harold writes: .Angeles. All of this Is new country to me, and 39 Cambridge St. "What plans. Kid, are In the making for our it will bo so most of the '\%'ay. ^fountalnous coun­Reunion? Lucy and I would be pleased to have try Is most Interesting to us and, of course, there-
Rochester 7, N. Y. 

our cottage at Diamond Lake be the rendcz\-ous Is so very much of It out here." 
Reunion 
^mm 
Junt I 1 7-6-9 (\ 
Wc regret to announce the death of Bernard Lynch, brother of CLETE LYNCH of happy mem­ory. Bernard resided in Wasliington, D.C. for many years, but returned to his native Meriden, Conn., about two years ago to be with his sister, Dorotliy and his brother, Ray. We extend our s^-m­palhy to members of the Lynch family. 
Here is a note of thanks to FATHER GEORGE 
B. FISCHER, C.S.C., from Nfrs. Karl Arndt whose husband died in Taipeh, Formosa last February 
22. It reads: 
"I «-ish to express my deep appreciation to tlie members of the Class of 1922, Xotrc Dame, for ha\ing tlie Mass offered for my beloved husband Karl. And tliank >T»U, too, for your kind expres­sion of s>mpathy." Signed Dorothy W. ^Vrndt. 
We arc very gratefid to all who were so thought­ful and kind to remember us with greetings at Christmas. We doubt if we can now give a com­plete list of all sudi persons and families, but here are most of the well wishers: From the Con­gregation of Holy Cross: MOST REV. JOHN F. 0*Hf\Rf\, C.S.C, Archbishop of Philadelphia, FATHERS JOHN GWANAUGH, THOMxVS L.\­HEY, ROBERT J. SHEEHAN, ROBERT H. SWEENEY, P. J. H.\GGERTY, GEORGE B. FISCHER, JOSEPH RICK, also. Father >rarcel Kcliher, a priest not afliliated with C.S.C.. Mrs. Clems Lyncli, Miss Dorothy Lynch, Mrs. Charles Plirsclibuhl, Mrs. Cyril GafTney, Mrs. Jessie Rickey (sister of Charles Folev, deceased). Judge A. A. SCOTT, Dr. HENRY ATKINSON, Dr. DANIEL SEXTON, ED BAILEY. JERRY BARRETT, FRANK BL.\SIUS, FRxVNK BLOEMER, JR., ED­\VIN BYRNE, STEVE aXRMODY, DANNY COUGHLIN, JOHN PAUL CULLEN, CHUCK CROWLEY, JERO.ME DIXON, JOE DUFFEY, WILFRED DAVTER, JOE FARLEY, ED GOT­TRY, VINCE HANR.\H/\N, .\.\RON HUGUE­NARD, JIM JONES, R^\Y KE;\RNS, TO.M Mc-a\BE, RiaVRD Mca\RT\', PAUL McDER-MOTT, HAROLD McKEE, HARRY .MEHRE, RO.MAINE REICHERT, JLM SHAW, MORG.VN SHEEDY, HAROLD WEBER and D.\N YOUNG. 
Your secretary was more than delighted to note that most of the '22Vrs have already anticipated our 35th Reunion next June, and took the trouble to write on tlieir Christmas cards that they were planning to attend our Reunion. This is a good omen, and can only mean that we are going to have a fine attendance. Due to the rather infre­quent issues of tlic Alumnus, this may be our one and only opportunity to sound ofT through the mcdhim of tlic Alumnus, exhorting all *22 men near and far to retrace their steps to N.D. next June to relive some glorious hours with their buddies of old. Particularly, do we appeal to those who for a x'ariety of reasons were not able to show up for our class rcunioiLi of tlic past. Some have not attended due to press of business. To those we suggest Uiat \'acatinns be arranged to include our 35tJi Retmion, if same is necessary. Wc commend those who never fail to attend our reunions, and always co-opcrato to make them successful. Yowr class officers elected at our 30th Reunion will arrange to select a Reunion Director, who in turn will select tlie members of Uio \-arious committees. In due time all wilt receive additional Information from your Secretar>', the Reunion Director or the Publicity Committee. 
Tliose who attended our gala 30tlr Reunion cele­bration at N.D. and Diamond Lake, Michigan, In 1952 were well rewarded for making tlic necessary effort to get there. Just seeing and talking uith your old buddies again is somctliing priceless. Then, too, HAROLD and Lucille WEBER did everything for our Class. Why not a party on Friday after­noon and evening along the lines of the pleasant, relxxlng one we had live years ago? Let me hear from you, Kid." 
BUCK SHAW u-as honored with the appoint­ment as head coach of the West team placing against tlie East All-Star team in tlie Shrine foot­ball classic at Kezar Stadium, San Francisco, last December 29. Buck, who is head coach of -the Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, coK)per­ated beautifully by winning a close one by a score of 7 to 6 for the West's first victory- since Buck last coached tlie same team some four years ago. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROMAINE REICHERT with their Notre Dame sons John and Tom were enjoy­ing the winter sports at Aspen, Colorado, In early Januar>'. Romalne writes: 
**MucIi snow, and more falling today in Aspen. AVe have had bright \%'arm sunny da>"s since leav­ing Minnesota on December 27 and this is our first morning minus the sun. The boys are having great fun skiing. I fear the>- are making a busi­ness of it, as tlicy are back at the lift every morn­ing at 8:30, soon as the chairs begin to move. Wc are comfortable and satisfied with our Imng quarters here. It is a quiet apartment and equipped so wc can get our meals. Friday \vill 

FATHER JOSEPH RICK, C.S.C., Is presently located at Boy's Ranch, Bedford, Texas, after-completing about 25 years of missionary work In Pakistan. Welcome back to the USA and to Texas, Father Joe. 
FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C-S.C, and ED­DIE GOTTRY" were \TsIting their native Rochester, 
N. Y., at Christmas time. Father George was in Baden, PennsyK-ania, on New Year's Day on CSC Company business. 
From Our Lady of Lourdes Church, Omaha, Neb., FATHER MARCEL KELIHER has these things to say: 
"All well out here, but I shall let you in on something. This thing of being a big shot Pastor isn't so hot. I prefer the place I was before I came here. There was no worr>", no three as­sistants, no 18 nuns, no 700 kids, no janitors bellyaching all the time, no retinue of help—all was simple, poor and peaceful. Watta life! and I would not give It up." 
Mrs. Charles J. Hirschbuhl spent Christmas ia Fresno, Calif., with her two married daughters and their families—the Bradley Qulnns of Fresno and til- Donald Drakes of Portland, Oregon. Seven grandchildren kept things astlrring. 
ROCHESTER—The committee that planned the Christmas dance consisted of the follow-inc^ (left to right): Vic DeSimon, co-chairman; Airs. John Keegan (seated), co-chairman; Mrs. Lee Hastings, Jr., arrangements; and Leo Wesley, tickets. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feh.-Mar., 1957 
1Q93 Louis V. Bniggner 
•'** » 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 
- The name of HARRY ^^^ FLANXERY, already famous in book, lecturing' and journalistic circles, now heads an imposing masthead of names on the stationery of The Catholic Assoaation for Inter­national Peace. Flan, according to \v-ord reaching iTiis comer recently, was elected in December as president of the Association. In commenting on his election Harr>- obsened that "tlie CAIP needs the membership oE all Notre Dame men and of other Catholic men and women .. . a member­ship that is all the more important in these criti­cal da>-s. Through a strong CAIP we can make more certain that Catholic principles of interna­tional peace with justice may be put into practice. Only thus can wc face the futiu* with assurance.-' Harry didn't say so, but the literature would indi­cate that N.D. men wanting annual membcrslup could obtain them by sending $5.00 to the CAIP at 1312 Massat^usetts A\-cnue W.\V., Washington 5, D. C. Sustaining memberships may be had for $10. This comer applauds Harry's election and the goals of the CAIP and wishes to disclaim being facetious if wc remark that Harry's job is non­salaried. Harrj* and his charming ex-school marm wife, Ruth, mailed a Christmas card to the Bmgg­ners from their home at 4823 Yuma St. N.W., Washington 16, D.C. at whidi address they will gladly receive mail or callers from the Class of '23. 
The HIRAM H. HUNTs of Decorah, Iow:a, also sent Christmas greetings and their photo with a cheery note (if you overlook the imchecr>* note **took in the Iowa,-X.D. game . -. w-as tliat c\'cr a sad affair"). Their seats were next to those of BILL KEN'XEDY, Rusty's brother. By now, ^rilh­out doubt. Hi is busy answering silly questions re the Internal Revenue Code at his IR office in Decorah. Write him there—after April 15. 
FATHER JOHN E. DUFFY wrvtc on his Christ­mas card that he was getting over an operation on his back and sUlI a little uncomforoble—"part of the glory of being '\Vain%mght's cJiaplaIn in Bataan." Hope ^-oiu're doing better no%\*, Fatlier John. 
A Christmas card reading "Felices Pascuas" and 
a postmark in Ecuador, South America, was also 
received from KEN and Jane KRIPPEXE. Thanks 
for the remembrance—no further information 
available. 
JOHN C. COCHRANE*s daughter, Bcttc Rac 
was married November 24 to RICHxVRD M. COUV­
SURD '50, Place unknoA\"n. Source of the tip; 
Alumni office. 
The "Daily News" of Robinson, Cra%vford Coun­
ty, Illinois, in its issue of November 7, 1956, car­
ried a half-column storv- with the following lead: 
**A near record-breaking \'ote of landslide pro­portions swept the entire Crawford county Repub­lican ticket into office with the exception of State's Attomc>- Ridiard J. Eagleton who ^vas defeated by former State's Attorney J. STANLEY BRAD­BURY in his own private landslide of 1332 majority over his Republican opponent," 
The remainder of the story pointed out that whereas other Republican candidates won by mar­gins of 2300-odd \-otcs in a total of 10,600 \*otes cast, our classmate Brad won by 1332 votes, a gain of about 3600 over other Democratic candidates. Quite an accomplishment wc would think. Con­gratulations, Stan. 
Having shot our bolt of news notes on this issue of the Alumnus, your struggling secretary appeals for letters from bo>-s in the mctropoH and hinter­lands—that is if you want another privately-circu­lated "news-letter" soon. 
IQ94 J^^nies R. Meehan I #A-i 329 So. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
192 5 J°^" P- Hurley 
#A*# 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
The class of '25 has scored again! Tlianks for the best response any class has e\-er had in answer to the questionnaire sent out. It was great hearing from all of yoa—-some for the first time in over thirty years. If your letter does not appear in this issue have patience because it will take the next three or more issues to print them all. Thanks too, for the ^ronderful contributions to our Mass Ftmd. 

36 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
SOUTHERN COOK COUNTY—Partidpante m club's Universal Communion Breakfast included: Dominic Red Calacei, Secretary; John G. Zarante, Co-Chairman; Bill Fisher, Assistant Football Coach at Notre Dame; Tom O'Grady, Vice-President; Monsignor Walter Croarkin, Spiritual Ad>-iser; Dick Wiler, Co-Chairman; and Dick Petrarca, Treasurer. 
We arc now having a High Mass said every month R. ADAMS of Bloomfield Hills, Micliigan. He in addition to the Nfasses for each deceased mem­was a partner in the advertising firm of Adams and ber. Since our cocktail reunion party after the ^{ac^I3nus of Detroit. John MacManus was a Michigan State game, three members of our class life-long friend of Ray Cunningham and Avas acting have gone to their reward. as palbearer when he received word of his partner's 
ALBERT DE LOREN2E died following a heart death. attack on October 9, in liis home in Dallas. AI H/\NK \N'URZER has had Masses said for tliese got his degree as a chemical engineer. After gradua­three fellows and please remember them in your tion he served as chemist for the Coca-Cola Bottl­prayers. All of you fellows know how much Notre ing of Dallas and remained with the firm con­Dame meant to Ray. He was the Valedictorian of tinuously, cxcep t for th rce years of Na\y duty our class and won his monogram in track. Wc are during World War II. Al left a brother and two indebted to him for a complete record of all our sisters. reunions on film, from our graduation through our 
RAY C. CUNNINGHAM, my roommate for tliirtieth. AVc arc the only class that has sucli a three of my four years at ND, died Nov. 3. Ray rocord. Let's thank him by remembering him in had a blood clot and died after three weeks illness. our prayers. 
Ray left his widow and one son. It was a terrible Our cocktail party after tlie Micliigan State game shock to me as we have seen a lot of each other on Oct. 20 was the best yet and wc plan to do it during these past thirty years. The morning of cver>* year. Wc have chosen Navy (Nov. 2, 1957) Ray's funeral I learned tliat another of our fellow for our next one. We think it will be thts best classmates died the day Ray was buried. JAMES and the most colorful game next Fall. I wish I 
ROCKFORD—Club members meet Holy Cross priests in city for installation of Most Rev. Loras Lane as Bishop of Rockford. Left to right, first row: Father Hope, C.S.C.; Al Carroll, Treasurer; Father Riley, C,S,C.; Judge Albert S. O'SulIivan, Left to right, second row: James Bakcman; Frank H. Sweeney, President; Robert Doyle, Vice-President, 
GEORGE UHLMEYER, '23 
Last November George Uhlmeyer ac­cepted tlic appointment as General Manager and Chief Executive Officer of the Cockshutt Farm Equipment Inc. of BellevuCj Ohio. 
When he left Notre Dame with his Magna Cum Laude in Chemical Engi­neering, he became an operating and research engineer of the New Jersey Zinc Company. In 1926 he went to the Peoples Power Company as an industrial engineer and remained so with the Iowa-Illinois Gas and Electric Company until 1943 when he became supervising electrical engineer. Two years later he was manager of industrial sales. 
In 1948 George took over the zone managership of the Quad Cities of Davenport, Bettendorf, Rock Island, Moline and Silvis. And on April 1st, 1954, he was appointed assistant vice-president and director of a newly created Area Development Division of the company. 
A member and chairman of several industrial committees, he is also past president and director of Rock Island Chapter, American Red Cross. Also, he is a member of: Advisory Board, Chi­cago Ordnance District; Contract Re­view Board, Ordnance Weapons Com­pany, Rock Island Arsenal; and Rotar)\ 
George and his wife, Dorothy, have two children, Jacqueline, a medical technologist at the Public Hospital in Moline, and Richard, a sophomore at Notre Dame. 
could remember all who were at our party but 
here's a partial list: BILL HURLEY, FRANK 
HOWL^VND, JUDGE Lv\RRY CVSEY, BILL 
BELL, PAUL SAGSTETTER, GEORGE LOUGH­
LIN, LEO PO\\'ERS, PAUL DOOLEY, BOB 
GORDEN, DR. JOE FOLEY. AL PORTA, 
GEORGE KOCH, BERNIE LIVERGOOD, ED 
CUDDIHY, NORB SKELLEY, BUD STILL.\L\N 
{'24), AL KOELER ('24), .MAURICE WEBER, 
MORT STETTAUER, GEORGE SCHWARTZ, AL 
LODA. VIRGIL PAGAN, DON .MILLER, 
GEORGE LUDWIG, IL\RRY STUHLDREHER, 
JERRY MILLER, WALTER HOUPPERT, BER­
NIE LEY, PETE KENEFIEK, PAUL DUPAY, 
JOUHN COURTNEY, BILL VOOR, AL MUEL­
LER, EDDIE LUTHER, GIL SCILVEFER, JIM 
AR.MSTRONG, ART SUDER ('26), EVIE KOHL, 
W'ALLY METZGER, and JOHN DROEGE. Of 
course most of these fellows brougbt their \m'es 
and some Hkc Paul Doolcy brought tliclr fanulies, 
(his being two fine sons). Let's all do the same 
next year. Be sure to order tickets for the Na%-y 
game next year because we have the same room 
rccser\'cd in Morris Inn. 
Bill Hurley, in his note of Nov. 9, pretty well 
expressed the feelings of cver>'onc. "Dear John, 
I have put this off long enough. I just wanted 
to tell you how much we enjoyed the get-together 
after the game. My wife and friends enjoyed it 
tremendously. It's nice to see all the fellows again, 
but I met many of llm wives I never had seen 
before. It entailed lots of work for you, but we 
appreciated it." 
S'ow for a starter on the Questionnaire informa­
tion. Jim and I thought at first we would put 
this In a class letter but there is so much informa­
tion that would be of interest to the classes within 
a few years cither way tliat we thought ^ve could 
publish tliem in ttic next few issues of the 1937 
j\Iumnu5. The news won't be stale because In many 
instances we have been waiting thirty years to get 
it. 
I'm taking tlic ono that came tlic farthest first . . . TONY GONZxVLEZ. "It was good to see >-otir name In print again. You arc one man I have not seen on the few times I have been there. Living ten thousand miles away it is not often that I get the opportunity to sec Notre Dame. Tlic last time I visited the campus was in the Fall of 1954. I then had the pleasure of seeing some of our classmates liko Jf.M ARMSTRONG and ART H/\LEY (I don't recall if Art was also in the Class of '25). (Art is a youngster from the Class of '26—Tony). My son has written me about the Michigan State game and after getting the attached sheet I was sorry to have missed the reunion of the Class of '25 at Morris Inn. 
"Let mc hear from you and tell mo how you fared since ^v•e last saw eacli other. If you ever have occasion to come to this part of the world, let me know aliead of time." 
From Tony's questionnaire we Icam tliat he is president of tlie Insular Life Assurance Co. Ltd., in Manila. His wife's name is Mcccdes and San Jose /Vntonio Gonzalez is now attending Notre Dame, living in Sorin Hall. Tony would like to hear from JAMES V. MAKER (New York), HER­MAN CE.\TLIVRE (Fort Wayne), and EDDIE LUTZ (Buffalo). Besides having been recently elected president of his company •which is the oldest domestic life insurance company in tlic Philippines. Tony has been In the business 25 years and expected to remain in Insurance until his retirement. He is also a senior vice-president of the FGO Insurance Group composed of non-life insurance companies. 
Tlianks for all this "info" Tony. I'm sure >-ou will be hearing from some of the 25'crs. I remem­ber >-ou mentioned visiting GEORGE VERGAR/V in New York. I called George a few weeks :^o while passing through New Rocliellc, New York. George Is mayor of that town. He was out (May­ors don't work on Saturday). I did learn good things about George. One of his constituents told mc he and his unfe took a whole refugee family into thdr home recently. (Ed. note: Sec page 13, Nov.-Dcc. 1956 Alumnus. JC). I'll call you again George as I will be going through New Rochellc often. My daughter, Moira, entered the Marv*­knoU order last September and .she's In tlie Noviti­ate at Mar>*knoIl, Nc%\* York. I have another daughter, Pat, who Is a junior at St. Mary's, Notre Dame . . . and loves it! 
JOHN KILKEN'NY is a great guy. He always encloses a check to help defray the expenses of the party and knows he u*on't be on hand to take part in it. It's fellou-s like him that make this class "the bcstest" and my job as secretary an easy one. John's address is Title Insurance Build­ing, Pendleton, Oregon. His wife's name is Vir­ginia and son's is Micliael (age 23), and daugh­ter's is Karen (age 19). John is still actively engaged In the practice of law. "A clieck in con-
CaiARLES a COLUNS, '25 

Charles C. "Chuck" Collins used to play end, but now he's calling the sig­nals. The former varsity left end, one of the "seven mules," became president of the National Carloading Corpora­tion on January first. 
"Chuck" won football monograms for three years, '22 through '24, and participated in interhall basketball and baseball. His late brother, Ed Collins, 
A.B. '30, was also a monogram varsity end. 
Following graduation he became line coach at the University of Chattanooga for one season before taking over as head football coach at the University of North Carolina, a position he held for eight years. 
National has 150 offices throughout the United States. Its business is to assemble less-than-carload freight ship­ments into full loads which give ship­pers the advantages of expedited car­load service. 
He is a member of the Illinois Bar, the American Bar Association and the Knights of Columbus, and has been active in the Holy Name Society and the Notre Dame La>'men's Retreat League. 
"Chuck" and his wife, the former Nell Hayes Jones of Elizabeth City, 
N. C, have four children, Charles Jr. (Lt. j.g.) '55, David '56, Edmond and Penny. His office is located at 19 Rec­tor St., New York City and the family residence is in Ridgewood, N. J. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 37 
tribution to tiic fun is enclosed. Regards to ROM-.\L V. KYES, 335 Sluelds Ave, Fresno, Calif., .Another fellow we don't hear from often, JOE ^\•EBER, CORBOY, KANE, WR.\PE, DON MIL­"I was what was then known as a 'rcliabilitation' E. FITZP.ATRICK, I>. O. Box 625, -Miami, Fla., LER, ct al." student (di5al)led veteran) and attended N.D. as sees BILL SEIDENSTICKER wcasionally. \Vc wUl 
Hold >-our seats t>oys! Here's one we haven't sucJi in 1922-24. I was required to discontinue have to have a '25 reunion down in Miami tliis heard from in thirty ycai%. EUSTACE CULLI-scliool In 1924 .».horlIy before I would have become winter. JOHN DROEGE s^ts down there everv-XAX, JR., 329 Lombard St., San Francitico, Calif. eligible for my degree. Have no idea what class year and many others. Who wilt be there Easter He's Presidinc: Judge, Superior Co^irt of State of I beloniied to. Took melaphvsics with JIM -ARM­week? 1 will, so let's hear fn)m the rest and 
CaJifornia. His vvile is Helen. He lias seen STRONG and HARRY W. FL.ANNERY in Prof. we will plan a '25 evening . . . how about it, H.\RRY McGUH<E, BERT DLTsX, and JIM Mercier's class; jt»umalism from I'rof. Cooney with Joe? OUTER and uo«ld like to hear from ERANK BOB RIORDA.N (afterwards registrar), BILL Nou- that I've licen \\\-vt .^nd Simlli, I'm going McSORBY and ILVNK \\X'RZER. CASTELLLM, (now deceased), etc. In the Ye-or Eait to .ADAM W.VLSH (11 Harp"v<n l'l.n<-c, Ilnins­
"Chief Justice Earl Warren appointed me to the Book of either '23 or '24 l'n»f. Cooney listed uie wick, Maine). .Xdain is coaching f»M>tbalI at Bow-Bench after four years %vith a Naval .-\ir Squadron. on his joumansm staff as a "lecturer," although I doin College. His (.iinilv is Ad.am Jr. (.11), Rus­W'isli some of the ND felluus would call me when did comparatively little h-cturing. Surely would sell William (29), and Stella Katherine (10). they come to San Francisco. Saw SENATOR .ART appreciate a copy of that Year Book if there arc .Adiun S.HV HARRY STUHI.DREHER, DON' 
BIDWELL wiien he was here for the Republican any e.vtant. .MILI.KR, and EI.MER I.AYDE.V in Cliicago while Convention and we had a reunion. Worketl on the now defunct "Ncws-Tinics" as he was attending the National Denioci^tic Con­
JIM DWTER, (now of Ix)ng Island), is an attor-telegraph editor while at Notre Dame and came vention as a ileh-gate from Maine. He writes, nc>- and represents Douhleday Doran, publishers out to the Sacr;unento "Bee" in May of 1952. '•IJeing a foothall ct^adi and State Legislator puts alon;j wilh many other inipre.-sive clients. Have been Sunday magazine editor of the Fresno mc in the two most hazardous po>itions p<»s^il)Ie. 
BERT DUNNE is in pui>lic relations and has the "Bee" since April of 1928. -Anything you can Tile Lord has been kind to nic tliouch, >o I am San Francisco Seals (Boston Red Sox Farm) as luie do to clarify my .'•tatus as a Notre Dame alumnus thonnigldv enjoving both fields." of his clients. \Ve went lo liie ball game and Bert will be greatly appn-clated. Sincerely, Mike CHARLES (JOE) HALL.MA.V, (6324 \V«lwood had Jim Dw>'er and me in tlie televL'-ion booth Keyes." Court, Minneapolis, Minn.), is President of the C. being interx'iewed and leli-rast. It was (piilc an ni.inks Mike! Someone may have tho<e two Joe Hallman Oil Co. His vnfc's name is Maybelle 
occasion. Best to you Jolin. 'Euie*." "Domes" around, gathering dust and wil! loan Marie and a son. Charles (13) and daughter, 
It u*as great hearing from you, "Euie." and you them to you. You are on the class list of 1925 Catherine Joe (9). John sees KARL CO.N.NELL can be sure Mrs. Hurley .and I Anil hxtk you up (the best class ND ever turned out), so why look and WALTER HALL. Walt is doing well with some dav in San Francisco. further? Red 0"1 Store.. LOWELL J. GILADY, who was 
The parents of this attractive family are Mr. and Mrs. Eugene J. O'Reilly, '35. Back row, left to right: John, Sheila, Tim and Eileen. Middle row, left to right: Gene, Joe, Alice, Beth and Jfrs. O'Reilly. Front row, left to right: Mary. Brian, Kevin and Bill. The O'Reilly's live at 146 Paradise Ave., Middlelown, R. I. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Afar., 1957 
Assistant Attorney Goni-ral of the State of Minne­
sota, pa.<is(-tl au'ay several months ago. Joe would 
like to sec Minnesota on tlie sclicdulc again 
(MOOSE KRAUSE plea.sc note!). &.« Charles is 
at ISlakc and lH)pes to go to Xotrc Daine. 
Joe checked for more nfws bv calHni; TOM 
REC {'2;[) and found that KARL CO.VNELL had 
moved from Minneapolis a few vears ago. 
'^EDWARD K. THODE, who l b.-Iicve is fn.m 
the class of 1924, served a'; President of tlic Min­
neapoli> .Vthletic Chib in I!)3!-5J. He is a terrific 
fellow. He is Vice-President and General Counsel 
of General Mills. 
LEO J. MOF-S of Corby Hall is a big real estate 
and apartment hoiL-e operator.'' 
Joe sent a si/able check to Hank for Mx^s say­ing. •"! a-s so thankful tiiat I had the oppnrtimity of aitendini; Noire Dame, which iias proved more \'aluable than diaumntls. Many thanks. Joe, for both the check and the nice letter. I'm sure mo-t of n^ U-vl the wav vou do about our .-Mma Malcr. 
GH. SCHAKFER, of Hillcrest. Illoi.mficUi Hills. Micliii;an. is a Marine Distributor and FO*K1 Dealer. "Heard from JOHN TR.\YNOR in .Vew York and JOHN R. MOKA.N of Denver w.as there on bn>i­ness. Tliey wanted a gin nimmy game and thought I would be easy money, so they called Detroit, wanting mc to fly to New York. Fortunately for them I was .still In Florida. 
ED FOLHAUS is .Vssistant to Contn>lIcr of the Ford Motor Engineering Staff. Ed would like to liear from Mauric Boland. He was sorry to miss the '55 rctmion but hoped to be on deck for 1900. 
Fn»ra sunny California, R^VLI'H GL.\DEN is a Neuropsychiatrist and has a daugliter, Judy (18), at Mills College and a son Craig (15) at Tliomxs Downey High School, in Modesto, California. It was good hearing from you Ralph! 
C. J. KALSER, {13314 Sherxvood, Huntingtcm "\V(K>ds, Midi.), is a Regional Sales Manager of Ins finn (but he <lidn't mention the name). He has a daughter, Jeanne (21) and a son, Tom (19) in Dillon at ND. His daughter, Jeanne, was mar­ried on June 6, of '56, in the Log Chapel. 
DR. CYRIL J. a\LD\VELL is an Orthodontist. His wife's name is Laura and children Paul (17). James (14), and Dick (9). Cy has been to our reimions but couldn't make the ND-MSU game this year. 

FRANK \S'. HO\VL.\ND, (840 Bishop rd., Grossc Point, Mich.) Frank's General Agent in Detroit of Mass. Mutual Life Insurance. Frank writes. "Talked to Francis 'Bugs' Waithcr on the phone in New York. He still is in the music business and doing well. He plays at the New York .\thletic Club cver>' Saturtlay night. Incidentally, 'liugs' is the only member of Harr\' Denny's ND collegians still carrying on in music. We left luui in N.Y. on our return from Europe in I92G anil he's still there! I'm about to start my 30th year with the Massachusetts Mutual (starteil in Streator. 
III. back in ll'li7). Spent some time in the Hoim­office, then to Memphis for ten years and tlie last eight ye.ars in Detroit. I think this is the last stop and hope I can hold out until retirement <iay! T.-iIked to Ray Cunninglu-uu and Gil Schae­fer recently and they arc feelini- fine and pro>­perou') as usual! (Frank, little did you know when you wrote your letter that Ray w.as in the hospital with his fatal illne.ss.) 
DR. JOHN 11. A. \ViHT.\L\N is at King's Col­lege (Wilkes-B.arre. IVnna.). John is a Pn»fess4»r and Director of Evening Ses.sions. John says he sei-s a lot of John ^V. Hillenbrand .is he has .spent ever>' ChrLstnias with the Hillenbrand family for the last 27 years. ''Since leaving N.D., 1 have been at King's College. In fact. I am one of the pioneers along with F'ather Conners4in. Last May, I was given a certificate for the years of faitliful service. Besides teacliing U.S. History. French, and .American Government, I abo direct the evenini; sessions. This year ihe College Year BiMik W.-LS dedicated t4i ine. Two weeks ai;o we held a sports banciuet at uhicli JACK I.AVELLE was the principal speaker. JL\I CUOWLEY aKo spc^ke. I suppose vou know th.al JOH.N H1LL1-:.N"­BRAND is a grandfather. In regard to HANK WURZER and the Mass Fund. let me state that 1 think that it woidtl be a nice thing if tlie cla>s received a list of all who have departed this life since the first list was published. You say that the fund is getting low. Either there have been a great number of deaths or there are a great num­br of the chass who do not contribute to this most worthy project. I think the latter is most possible.'" 
Johnj it was wonderful hearing from you. Re­nu'nibcr the good ole days in Carroll with Rom-weber, Scallan, Fitzpatrick, etc. .-Vs already indi-
CIXCIXX.-VTI—^Thc club's Holiday Dance was a trciiicndotis success. 
rated, the bovs came thnumh in tireat shape for Pennsylvania Railroad Co. Frank has a grand the Mass Fund aiul HANK W'UR/ER will be get­f.'unily of nine cliildren: Anne and .Mice (25), ting out another new list of '25ers to pray for. Mary CaUicrinc (23). Frank (22), James (lOj, Let me kiujw of any that you may have heard of Kevin (8), Frances (7), David (4), and Kathleen in recent months . . . that toes for the whole (2). Frank sa>-s, "I have been located In Wash­cl-ass. Just heard from ED "RED" SHE.\ ("23) ington twelve years. It seems a long lime to be that "RO.ME" DUG.\N died a few days before au-ay from Indianapolis, but I get back there Christinas. Rome wasn't in our class but he was occasionally to see some of my old friends." Our in ND prep .school with a lot of '25ers. I learned class has a pretty gtKHl comer on the railroad no other details cm his death, but let's say a business with J.ACK SC-VLLEN, Vice-President of prayer for a fellow who loved Notre Dame and the Standard Steel Car Co. Hope to sec Jack and put a lot of punch and fun into manv a reuniim. the Chicago gang in Chicago at the Furniture 
FR,\NK J. MCCARTHY (1223 Pennsylvania Market in Januar%-. BIdg.. Washington, D.C.). is Vice-President of the JOHN W. SNAKARD is President and Treasurer 
Mrs, August G. Desch has served as president of the National Council of Catholic Women during the past year. She is shown here with her husband, Gtis, a famous track and grid star at Notre Dame before his graduation in 1923- Gus was a member of the U. S. Olj-mpic team at the games held in 1920 at Antwerp. The couple resides in Chicago where Gus is an executive with the Linde .\ir Products Company. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb,-Mar., 1957 39 
FRED J. CARIDEO, '36 

Fred J. Carideo has been promoted to Assistant Director of National Pub­lic Policy of General Outdoor Adver­tising Co.j Inc.. with headquarters in New York City.' 
He had been ser\^ing as Manager of Real Estate and Leasing for the same advertising firm with headquarters in Chicago for the past nine years. 
Prior to that he was Director of Per­sonnel for Chevrolet Division of Gen­eral Motors Corporation covering Detroit, Flint, Mich., and Muncie, Ind. 
During "World War II, Fred sen'cd in die U. S. Navy as commanding offi­cer of two landing ships. He entered as a Lieutenant (j-g.) and was retired this year as a Lieutenant Commander. 
He participated in die initial land­ings at Normandy and Soudiem France and also in the Pacific theater, and later took the first troops into Korea. He was cited by die 'Nzvy for his ex­ceptional work in landing operations. 
Wliile at Notre Dame, Fred \vzs an outstanding football player and earned monograms in the backfield. He and his wife will reside in Annonk, N. Y. 
of Sky Chef's Inc., (Subsidiary* of American Air­lines, Inc.). John's family consists of John Jr­(24), Mary Elizabeth (22), and Jean Theresa (10). 
John writes, "ITie salutation of 'Hi Old Timer!* employed in ytmr letter is probably correct but I don't feel like one. But in the light of events I guess I have entered that category-. My son graduated from N.D. in '54 and is now in the Anned Forces. His *hitch' is almost up and he will be out soon. "My older daughter '\%'as married in June and I suppose I can soon take my choice betu'cen *01d Timer* and 'Grandpa.* 
*'I get around the country now and then as 

40 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar.s 1957 
the company mtli which I am connected operates scvcnil airport restaurants and airline commissaries from Boston to Los Angeles. Tiic newest was opened last March In Cleveland in the new Terminal at CIcvcIand-Hopkins Airport. I hope all tlic Cleve­land X.D.'crs will come out and eat there. I think )'our questionnaire is a good idea and hope it brings a good response and lots of news of tlie "greatest class to come out of Notre Dame!" 
HENRY C. (H/\NK) >\URZER is President of the Blackhawk Hotels, Inc. of Davenport, Iowa. His family consists of Marg, his wife and Mimi, (^frs. Robert Cor>-n), Susie, Hcnr>* Jr., Peggy, Ginger, and Sally. Henr>' Jr. will graduate at 
N.D. tliis June, being tlic third generation of the family graduated from N.D. 
Ifank would like to hear from class members of the death of the members of our fellow class­mates. Since our reunion in June 1955 and our last memorial card, I have been advised or heard of tlic following classmates u*Iio have died. RALPH 
L. HEGER (April 26, 195G), GER.\LD HOLLx\ND (Oct. 10. 1956), THOMAS McARDLE (Oct. 22, 1955), illKE NEEDH.\M (June 13, 1955), FATHER Rv\Y NORRIS, C.S.C. (Dec. 13, 1955), EDWARD RY^V.N (Nov. 9, 1955), and CH.\RLIE SALLO (June 15, 1955). Mass has been proWded for each of tlicm out of our ^fass Fund. If I have missed any, advise me." 
Thanks for >*our nice letter. Hank, and the class appreciates tlie great job >*ou have done and are doing as our Class Treasurer and the handling of our fine \fass Fund. Hank i%'as pleased with the great response on our ^fass Fund and the splendid percentage of ans^vcrs on the questionnaire (over IIO). He suggested we follow up on the ones who didn't answer. Let's have close to 1(X)9&! Send a short note about \-ourself and family. "Don't be in a class by \*ourself!" 
' Tlie last questionnaire for this issue will be JOHN W. COURTNEY (401 South Highland Dr., Dearborn, Midi.). John represents Electro Re-factories and Abrasives Corporation of Buffalo, N.Y. His family: Jack. ND '50, (28), Mary Ann, Naza­reth College, (29), Jim, .V.D. *55, (23), Ricliard 
J. (18), and Nanc>- Jean (13). 
Jack writes, "FRANK UHL is recovering from a serious heart condition. MORT STETTAUER re­cently bought a beautiful home on Angela Blvd. in South Bend. Jack would like to hear from JAMES A. BURKE. Jack covers Indiana and Micliigan and his son Jack Jr. (ND *50) has four girls, ranging from four years to six months and is also selling Abrasives and covers Detroit and Toledo. My oldest daughter, Mary Ann, married Bud Gasser (Michigan State center '46-50). They have t^vo sons, Micliael and Tlioraas Courtne>'. His fatlier, Ifarold Gasser Sr. is %Wth Ford Motor, Dcaibom. Best personal regards to the greatest Class secretary under the Dome!" 
Thanks for sucli a nice compliment, but it*s not the secretary . . . it's that wonderful class of ours! Our dass would make any secretary look good! 
192 & H.udoIpli A. Goepfnch 
• '^' ^ 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Ind. 
Sometime this past fall, Capt. FRANCIS J. BON, USN, was assigned tlie duty of Officer in Charge, 
U. S. Sending State Office for Italy. ^Wrc all glad for him and hope that he will enjoy his sojourn in Rome. 
In a recent trip to Toledo, I talked to CARL SCHfVFFER on the phone. He is a practidng attorney tliere, specializing in patients. His ncw liome address is 4271 Dcepwood Lane, Toledo 14. I also inquired about CVRLTON ROGGE, and learned that he is in the realty business in New York City. I 'would appreciate it if someone could give us liis address there. I also tried to contact ART SUDER there, but couldn't reach him by phone. 
AVe learned that FATHER HOWARD KENNA, who is now president of the University of Portland, was recently operated upon for cataracts and that he is progressing vcr>* well. 
Mr. J. E. Broussard, Sr., faUicr of J. E. BROUS­SARD, JR., '26, and CLYDE E. BROUSSARD, '13, died on October 6, 1956. Let's remember him in our prayers. We also learned, wa a card at Christmas time, that Goldie, wife of LEO ST. JOHN, passed away in July. Leo's home is in Tampa, Florida, and Mrs. Goepfrich and my daughter and I visited tliem last February. Mrs. St. John became ill shortly thereafter and was in 
weHifliUfflllllS 
JAMES P. LYDON, '29 

James P. Lydon, director of indus­trial relations at Lockheed Aircraft's Georgia Division since the plant was activated in 1951, has begun new duties as director of administration. 
Associated vAth the Lockheed com­pany since 1941, Jim has worked for 15 years in labor relations assignments ^\'ith the aircraft firm. Previously, he was in personnel and labor relations work at AVestem Electric company and for four years performed l^al and gen­eral administrative work for the U. S. government. 
Prior to beginning his new duties as director of administration, he com­pleted an extensive study course this summer at Stanford University at­tended by leading business men of the 
U. S. 
A native of Buffalo, N. Y., Jim is a member of Notre Dame's 1929 class and holds a bachelor of laws degree from Chicago Kent College. He and his wife, Martlia, live at 5129 Powers Ferr>' Rd., N. AV'., Atlanta, Ga. 
a hospital until her deatli. Let's remember her in our prayers also. 
I see FRANK DEITLE occasionally. He oper-­ates the Winkelmann Company, an engineering concern in South Bend and is doing well- Frank's daughter recently set a ne^%- record in the North-em Indiana Open SM-immlng ^fect held in South Bend. Competition u-as exceptionally keen and ** there were 513 swimmers participating. 
In Detroit, I had telephone chats with FRANK "MIKE" BOLGER, SEWARD BOWER and AUL- ^• COL.M KNAUS. "Mike," brother of FATHER BOLGER at Notre Dome, is now handling finances ,_ at Ford Motor Company; he bad previously spent some years with General Motors. I caught Seward on his day off from his work at the Detroit News and we had a very pleasant chat. Malcolm reported tliat lie had an excellent year in hts electrical equipment business, which he now* operates in his own building at 3117 W. McNichoIs Road. He regretted his absence at our 30th reunion last summer, but had some long-standing commitment of chairmanning a convention at that time. He 
•also reported that VINCE SOISSON, whom he used to see occasionally when he was in Charle­vobc, Michigan, had been transferred to a mana­gerial position with West Penn Power Company in Pittsburgh. 
Calls to ED CROWE and FIL\Nk D0NOV/\N found them "not home" for the evening; however, I will try again sometime. A call to HOWARD WEIMERSKIRK produced "no ans^ver." 
RJVY DURS T and his wife are on a world cruise aboard the S.S. Caronta. They left New York on January 19. As all of you probably know by now, Ray was elected to the Alumni Assodation Board of Directors and will scr\-e a three year term of office. 
When BOB GR^\H/\M's daughter was married to JUSTIN L. MORAN, *54, this past fall, it was an all Notre Dame-St. ilar>-'s affair. The bride is a 1955 St. Mary*s graduate, JIM MOR/\N, the best man, is a *56 Notre Dame alumnus, ^%^iile the bridesmaid, Joan Nolan, graduated from St. Mary's in 1955. JAMES R. GR^\HxV.M, JR., usher, is a 1952 Notre Dame graduate, the mother of the bride, Mrs. J. R. Graliam, graduated from St. Mary's in '27, and the soloist at tlic Mass, TON\' DON/\DIO, is a 1942 Notre Dame graduate. 

1 927  Steve Ronay  
• '^  '  1125  AVoodlawn  
South Bend  16, Indiana  

Reunion 
June I 
imuiml 
WALTER "RED" SMITH, syndicated sports col­umnist of the New York Herald-Tribune, received the 1956 Grantland Rice Memorial Award. He is the second \*-inner of the award which is given by the Sportsmanship Bmtherhood. Red also covered the Olympic games last December in Melbourne. 
1 928 ^u ^ F* Buckley I 7A O J253 North Central Ave. Chicago 51, Illinois 
JOHN A. MULLEN died on October 15. 1956 in his home in Bronxnlle, Ne\v* York. John, who ^v•as from River Forest, IllinoU, while at ND, was an employee of the Sfarchalk and Pratt Adver­tising Agency in Ne^v York at the time of his dcatli. He leaves his wido^v, three daughters, his mother and tuX) brotlicrs. Jack was married on Januai->- 17, 1931 in the log chapel by FATHER CHARLES O'DONNELL, C.S.C. The last tune. I heard from Jack he adiiscd that his oldest daugh­ter, a Cornell graduate, was doing graduate 'work at Yale in education. Another daughter was at Elmira, Class of '57, and the third *\*as planning to study nursing. Jack scr\'ed as Radio Copy Chief of the Domestic Bureau of the Office of War In­formation during ^\''orld War II. His closest friends ^verc BOB TROTTER, *29, General Mana­ger of Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company, and JOSEPH F. TIMLIN, Vice-President in charge of radio and telcrision for the Branham Co. Jack roomed uiih the late TOM J. GRIFFIN, CHARLES MOOSBUGGER and WARD HOCKER at Notre Dame. A Mass yvrts ofTcred for Jack by the Class of '28. 
You will remember that JACK MULLEN attend­ed our 25-year reunion. He alwa>-s replied to my many requests for news. He concluded his last letter as follows: "My compliments to the guy that we all think is unequalled as a class secretary —even if he continues to insist on sending out the Big Brother t^-pe questionnaires.*' He commented in another letter, after taking me to task very severely for asking certain questions, "But I have filled out the form as best I can, and for just one reason: Louis wants an extra statistic I don*t know why; but if it will do him any good, I'm for it." 
MtcT receiving some time ago my list of class­mates whose mail Iiad been returned unclaimed, Jack wrote "It seems impossible that so many '28 guys could have lost contact, or simply dropped out of sight." He mentioned that "one feels a sense of loss as he looks at so many familiar names, such as HARRY ENGEL and G. B. FO­LEY." Jack had seen Hv\RRY ENGEL at the time he ^v'as head of the Fine Arts Department at Indiana University when one of the New York galleries gave his work a private showing. G. B. Foley was another close friend whom Jack sa.w frequently during the war when he was a naval officer. Incidentally Harry Engel and G. B. Foley arc still on our unclaimed list, as well as the following: WM. J. GOEBEL, JOE K/\NE, CHARLES KOENIG, FR.\NCIS LI, MAURICE .McMENAMIN, LINUS D. -MALONEY, LYLE E. MALONEY, J.VMES MORRISSEY, HENRY T. MUELLER, VALENTINE A. 0*DONOHUE, CHARLES C. RILEY, HUBERT RUDDUCK, JAMES C. TOOMEY and GEORGE M. WR.VY. Please let me know if you can supply a cnirrent address for any of these missing classmates. 
JOHN FREDERICK sent a clipping advising of the death on November 17 of 1\^\N LeBLANC, '29, former Alpena, Michigan, municipal judge. I\"an was also a former chairman of the Alpena Repub­lican Committee. Although I\-an received his LL.B. in 1929, many will remember him as starting with our class in 1924. 
I wish to extend our sympathy to AL SCHNURR on the unexpected death of his son Robert, age 21, at their home in Sandusky, Ohio, on Oct. 6. Robert had been a student at John Carroll Univer­sity. Al's oldest son finished at Notre Dame last June in architecture. He also has two younger daughters. GEORGE COURY*s mother died on November 27. You will recall George's dad passed away on .August 2. STEVE SHERRY lost his mother in death in Dayton, Ohio, on October 10. CHARLIE LYNCH's father died in lou-a in Octo­ber. 
PAT VARR-WrrO became the father of a daughter on November 27. You will recall that I previously announced his wedding on Feb. 11. Pat is an arcliitect with Lockheed Aircraft Corporation and is living at 657 ^\^ Broadway, Glendale, Calif. 
The cocktail party at the Morris Inn after the Oklalioma game ^\•as a huge success and by popu­lar demand will probably become an annual affair. (A picture of tliose attending the party can be found ebe%\-licre in this issue.) As ED QUINN who handled local arrangements for tlic party put it, "We didn't much enjo>- the score of the game, but did have a good time guessing who was who aften*-ard." The following men attended the afFain JIM ALLAN, GORDON BENNETT, ROGER BRESUN, LOUIS BUCKLEY. JAMES CANIZARO, JOE CANTY, J. E. CARLIN. WM' CLARK, DONALD CORBETT, GEORGE CO­VERT, FRANK CREADON, D. D. DALY, JERRY DeCLERCQ, JOE DORAN, EDWARD J. DUFFY, JOHN FREDERICK, JOE GERAGHTY, AUGIE GRA.\!S, THOMAS M. HART, GLENN HATCH, JOE HILGER, GUS JENKINS, BILL KEARNEY. BILL KIRWAN, J. P. LAHEY, HENRY XL\SS­MAN, ARTHUR W. iHLLER, JOE MORRISSEY. RAY MULLIGAN. \VM. H. MURPHY, RICH­ARD QUIENLVN, ED. R. QUINN, DICK PHE­LAN, ED. RAFTER, SWEDE SCHROEDER. 

CIL\S. A. SCHUSSLER, B.- R. SCHUH, NORB SEIDENSTICKER, JACK SHEEDY. CHAS. G. TOPPING, BOB ^VINTER and ART ZI.\LMER. MAN. 
Please let me know if others should be added to the above list. Our president, Frank Creadon, did his best to get ever>-one to sign the guest book at the cocktail party. It >*-as a pleasure to have the opportunity to meet a number of wives of classmates at the affair and to hear of their inter­est in the *28 column. May I again appeal to the wives to send along clippings and news items for this column. 
It was great to have our favorite professor, PAUL FENLON, as our guest at the party. Paul said that he appreciated the honor of being in­cluded among those illustrious men of the Class of '28. He added, "They" are a great crowd and they've done remarkably well and the good spirit they evince makes them an outstanding class." Speaking of English professors reminds me that I saw Prof. JOHN BREN^NAN recently in Chi­cago. John teaches at Loyola University where I also teach evening classes. John looks fine—^Uke most of us, he has put on considerable weight since we knew him in the excellent class on the novel which he taught. 
Tlie cocktail party get-together gave ns an oppor­tunity to meet the following eight men whom most of us have not seen since our graduation in 1928: JOE &VNTY, DON CORBETT, JOE DORAN, ED DUFFY, GLENN HATCH, CHARLEY TOP­PING, BOB WINTER and ART ZIMMERM.\N. 
DON CORBETT, who practices law in Rochester, 

N. Y., has five children, ages 7 to 20. He has two sons at N.D. Don served as a member of the New York State Legislature, 1934-1936, and as assistant Ne%v York State Attorney General 1937­1943. Don and JOE GERAGHTY arc active on the Bishop's Lay Committee on Scouting. 
JOE CANTY is an attorney-examiner with the 

ROME, Italy—Notre Dame and St. Mary's held meeting in Rome. Guests included Prof. Ed Fischer, ND (far right) and (counter clockwise) Prof. Jack Gillen, Notre Dame In­ternational School, Rome; Judith Ann Hankes, St. Mary's; Tom Maus, ND '57; Ann Mar­baugh, St. Mary's; Prof. Paul Bosco, ND; Vince McAIoon, Notre Dame International School, Rome; Mary Kae Hankes, St. Mary's; R. C. Cunningham, U. of Oklahoma; Eleanor Hankes, St. Mary's; Joe Taft, ND '57 (demonstrating the spaghetti art). Absent from picture were: John Krueger, ND and Rome Daily American; Ray Srsic, ND '48. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar., 1937 
Industrial Commission of Ohio. Joe has four chil­
dren, ages 10 months to 11 years. Joe promised 
that he would attend our 30-year reunion. Joe 
lives in Columbus, Ohio, just t%%'o houses from 
TOM HART. Tom is resident manager of Employ­
ers Group Insurance Companies for Ohio and West 
Virginia. Tom has one daughter. PAUL FALTER 
is also in Columbais and is bailif for the Industrial 
Commission of Ohio. 
GLENN HATCH is assistant sales manager of 

Hercules Cement Corporation in Philadelphia. 
Glenn has two grou^i children and one grandchild. 
Glenn promises to atted our 30th reunion in 1933. 
ED DUFFY of Essex Falls, N. J., who was ^^itIl our class from 1924 to 1926, is a partner and member of tlie New York Stock Exchange. He is also a director in the J. H. Bunnell S: Co. in Ne%*' York. Ed has seven children ages 8 to 25. Two of his sons were graduated from Princeton. He has two daughters at Trinit>' College, AVash­ington, D. C. Ed is Cliairman of the Essex Falls Republican Committee and has scr\'cd as President of the Essex Falls Board of Education. 
JOE DORAN, as \-DU know, is national retail sales manager of the farm fence department of Sears Roebuck & Co. He lives at 333 W. Harri­son A%Tnue in W'healon, Illinois. He has an adopted daughter, age 11. 
ART ZIMMERMAN is comptroller and assistant treasurer of the Fabricon Products, Inc. of River Rouge, Midiigan. Art has two adopted daughters, ages 9 and 10, 
BOB WINTER is an industrial engineer with Armcnir &. Co. in Cliicago and lives at 841 Forest A\-e., Oak Park, Illinois. Bob's first ^\-ife died in 1930 and he remarried in 1933. He has a son II years of age and two grown children. His son finished at Elmhurst College and is ^rith the Con­tinental Bank in Chicago. Bob has one grandchild. 
CHARLEY TOPPING, ^vho now lives in White Plains, N. Y., as you know, \s-as recently appointed Ne%v York Area Sales Manager for the Johns-Manvillc Pipe Division witli headquarters at 270 Madi&on Ave., New York City. Bud has three 
sons, the oldest being a freshman at Notre Dame 
this year. 

We also had an opportunity to rene^v a number of old acquaintances at the cocktail part>'. I picked up hews on the follm^ing: JIM ALLAN of Chi­cago, who has a son at N.D., is assistant secretary of Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Company and American Motorists Insurance C-J. and is manager of the Workmen's Compensation Claim Department. Jim was a guest lecturer recently in my class on social insurance which I teacli at Loyola Univer­sity and he was recently featured as a "Spotlight .Alumnus" in tlie Alumnus magazine. JIM CANI­ZARO, an ardiitecl, came from Vicksburg, Mis­sissippi, for the affair. Jim has a son and daugh­ter. GEORGE CO\'ERT, «ho is witli DcVilbiss Mfg. Co. in Toledo, has been a widower since 1936. Our Class President, FRANK CREADON, who is an insurance consultant ^rith Metropolitan, has four cliildrcn, including a son at N.D. and a daughter at Rosarv- College. 
JERRY DeCLERCQ, brandi man:^er of Fleisch­mann Dinsion of Standard Brands, Inc., in De­troit, lias a daughter in tltc convent at the Do­minican noritiatc in Adrian, Midiigan, and her twin brother is at St. Joseph's College, at Collegc­viUe, Indiana. JOHN FREDERICK, an attorney and Justice of the Peace in Muskegon, Michigan, has four ditldren induding a son at Michigan State and a daughter at Mount Merc>* College. John served as Commissioner on the Midiigan Labor Mediation Board, 1941-1949. 
JOE GERAGHTY, who is cashier and ollicc manager of George D. B. Binbright & Co., Stock brokers, has three children, including a nun in the Mcrc>- Order, Joe is President of the N.D. Club o! Rodiestcr. AUGIE GRAMS, a manufacturer of animal feeds in LaCrossc and operator of a farm, is quite active in tlie Elks and Serra Clubs. T%\-D of his daughter? arc graduates of St. Cather­ine's and the other two of the Univerdty of 'Wis­consin. A friend from LaCrosse recently advued me that Augic 'was elected to tlie Board of Directors of the State Bank of LaCrossc. BILL KEARNEY, 
On Saturday evening, December Sth, South Bend area members of the class of '38 honored 
a Cliicago attorney, has five children, ages 6 to 17. 
JOHN (RED) LAHEY, head of Uie pharmacy department at the DLxon State Sdiool, has four children and four grandchildren. John's son is attending Northern Illinois State College. JOE MORRISSEY, manager of King Mfg. Co. (textile, bags) in Cindnnati, Ohio, has two sons who arc graduates of N.D. and a daughter who finished at Our Lady of Cincinnati. Jtte's sons arc civil engineers. RAY MULLIGAN, who is with Chi­cago lltle and Trust Co. in Chicago, has three daughters, ages 8 to 12. 
ED QUINN, Director of tlic Department of Student Guidance and Testing at N.D., has two grown diildren and four granddiildren. Ed's son is at N.D. after serving three years in tlie Ma­rines. Ed did his usual good job in handling local arrangements for our class cocktail party. Ed tells me that FATHER ROBERT WOODWARD, C.S.C., is Director of the Office of Military Infor­mation at N.D. and is kept busy ^rith the R.O.T.C. program. Ed sent me a picture from the South Bend Tribtmc of JACK LrWELLE and his 8-year­old son taken at the N.D.-North Carolina game. Ed reporU that GEORGE SCHEUER of tlie Soutli Bend Tribune is securing excellent speakers as Secretary of tlic South Bend Catholic Forum. George received tlie St. George award for Catholic Scout Leaders recently. It was in recognition of work done for Catholic Boy Scouting in the Fort Wayne diocese. George has four boj-s in scouting and his wife serves as dca moHier. 
Two of DICK PHELAN*s three boys are now at 
N.D. You probably noted that his son, Ridiard, Jr. is a member of the football squad. CHARLEY SCHUESSLER, President of John C. TuIIy Co.. General Contractors, has a son at N.D. He also has a flaughtcr, age 14. Charley was with his old friend, HENRY MASSMAN, at the cocktail party. Henry also has a son at N.D. ROGER BRESLIN, an attorney* in Hackensack, N. J., has five chil* drcn, ages 9 to 19. His oldest son is at N.D. 
NORB SEIDENSTICKER, who looks as young 
 Johnny Murphy, former Irish star, at a 
party held in the basement of Chuck Sweeney's home Murphy is the football coach at John Adams High school. South Bend, which won the Northern Indiana Championship. Murphy was also honored as the Indiana high school "Coach of the Year." A presentation was made to Mr. and Mrs. Murphy of an electric skillet. Left to right: seated, first row, Mr. and Mrs. Murphy, Mrs. Chuck Borowski, Miss Maigaret Martin (guest of Bill Gibbons), Mrs. Sweeney and Mrs. Don Smith. Seated, second row, Mrs. Charlie Duke, Mrs. Jim Beaudway, Mrs. £d Hager and Mrs. Don Fisher. Standing, Mrs. Charlie Callahan, Frank Shaefer, Don Smith, Bill Gibbons, Chuck S%v*eeney, Jim Beaud^vay, Ed Hager, Charlie Callahan, Charlie Duke, Don Fisher, Chuck Borowski, Mrs. Nelson Vogel and Mrs. Frank Shaefer. (Late arrivals at the party after the picture had been taken were Mr, and Mrs. Don Hickey, Mr. and Mrs. Jim Lahey and 
Mr. and Mrs. Bemic Bauer.) 

42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb,-Mar.j 1957 
E. JOSEPH MOORE, '38 

E. Joseph Moore is the new presi­dent of the Anti-Friction Bearing Dis­tributors' Association, elected at that group's annual meeting in Chicago recently. 
After graduation from Notre Dame, Joe started to work for the Detroit (Mich.) Ball Bearing Company in sales. In 1939, he was transferred to Grand Rapids to assist in the opening of a branch office and warehouse. 
Shortly thereafter, Joe became Branch Manager, a post he held imtil Februar)' 1953, at which time he was appointed AVestem District Sales Man­ager. He has direct sales supervision over Branch Managers and Resident Agents in: Grand Rapids, Lansing, Muskegon, Kalamazoo, Benton Harbor and Jackson, Michigan. In addition, Joe is vice-president of the company. 
Detroit Ball Bearing Co. is one of the largest bearing distributors in the country. Associated with Joe in the business are hb father, T. B. Moore, chairman of the board; R. J. Moore, president; T. P. Moore, vice-president, and J. T. Moore, '40, secretary-treasurer. 
Last year as outgoing President o{ the Grand Rapids Notre Dame Club, he was given the "Man of the Year" Award. 
Joe and his wife, Margaret, have four children, Michael, Margaret Ann. Mary Elizabeth and Dennis Patrick. 
as he did in 1928, continues as Secrctar>--Trcasurer of the Chillicothc Paper Co. He has five chil­dren, ages 7 to 22. Norb's oldest son is at N.D. and his oldest daughter was graduated fn>m Catho­lic U. in 1955. Norb is Grand Knight of the CTiillicothc Council, K. of C. BILL KIRWAN, who is in the furniture business in Iowa City and DENNY Dx\LY, an attorne>- in St. Paul and pro-lessor ot tax lau- at the University of Minnesota, joined us for dinner after the cocktail party. Bill has a son at Iowa University and a daughter who is an interior decorator. Dennv has two voung sons. CHARLIE TOPPING ' mentioned ' that FR.AXK GAL,\RDY is Vice-President of the Auto­matic Telephone Co. 
Our Treasurer, J.\CK SHEEDY, continues with the Lincoln National Life Insiu-ance Co. in Pitts­burgh. Jack has four diildren, ages 9 to 22. His oldest son will graduate this year at N.D. and his daughter at Dumbarton College, Washington, 
D. C. I am calling upon Treasurer Jack Sheedy quite regularly to arrange for masses for deceased classmates. Incidentally, our Class Treasury is in need of additional funds to meet current expenses. If you are in a position to help the situation, please write to Jack Sheedy, Class Treasurer, 1118 Farmers Bank Building, Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
I hope yon enjoyed reading the article on the 

N.D. Class of '28 from page 85 of tlie October 15, 1956 Issue of "Sports Illustrated** wlilch I sent to you at Christmas lime. Incidentally, I am grateful to BILL MURPHY who picked up the clieck for that mailing. It was Interesting to note that the class study which I made for our 25­year reunion is still being referred to and tised in publications. If any of you give me a bit of encouragement, I might consider making a sup­plementaiy study for our 30th reunion. 
Tlie October I, 1956, Issue of "Sports Illus­trated" carried a picture of JOHN McMANMON, landscape architect and nursciyman of Lowell, ^fass., in connection \Wth an article on "What Happens to Football Players.** I had a good session with John at the Morris Inn following the Oklaliuma game. It is the first time 1 had seen John since 1928. John Is a landscape engineer and architect operating the McMatunon Nurseries in Lowell, Mass. He Is also a landscape architect for the highway department of the State of Massa­dinsctts. He also ser\'es as Chairman of the Park Board for the City of Lowell. John has three children, ages 10 to 19. His oldest son is at N.D. Frank Creadon tells me that John Is a Knight of .Malta. 
Speaking of football in our day, reminds me of a request I received from a fan who is tr>Tng to complete a set of football programs. He needs only the program from tlic N.D. ^-s. U.S.C. game in 1927. If you can help, please send it to Tony RiccardI, 5718 South Gramercv- Place, Los An­geles 62, California. 
At Christmas time our Class President, Frank Creadon, and I visited our classmate BOB CAPE­SIUS who Ii\-es with his family at 2138 Warner Avenue, Chicago 18, Illinois. Bob has a family of four boys and one girl, ages 9 to 17. It was good to see Bob again after 28 years and to meet his fine wife and children. Unfortunately Bob Is In vcr>- poor health. He has lost the sight in one eye and the other eye is Impaired. I hope his many friends in our class will write to Bob at the Chicago address above. 
F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN tells me that Lt. Col. GEORGE LEPPIG, U.S.M.C. is now stationed at the U. S. Marine Base, Apa Locka, Miami, Flor­ida. Jim had lunch with George recently and reports that George, hb wife, son and daughter, live at 3189 Rooscxelt, Hollywood, Florida. JIM O'BRIEN is with A. M. Kidder & Co., Inc., 139 
E. Flagler St. in Miami. Jim wrote follovring the death of his close friend NINCE DUCEY and men­tioned that Vince was a U.S.N.P. Lt. at Pearl Harbor during the AVar in 1943. They used to go to Mass together often and to breakfast on their Sundays off duty down In Honolulu. Dr. BERNIE CROWLEY was a navy dentist there at the same time. He used to join Vince and Jim from time to time and they would have one for N.D. '28. 
JOHN iVNTUS, attorney- with offices at 342 Madi­son Ave. in N.Y.C. now lives at 1254 Plandomc Rd., Manhassct, L.I., N. Y. He met BOB HAM­ILTON at their parish church. John has three sons, ages 9 to 14. BERNIE GARBER is a god­father of one of John's boys. John mentioned that WILLARD WAGNER, our all-.American local arrangement committee chairman for '28 reunions, dropped into his office for a visit recently. John and Wag revie%ved old times. John inquired about 
PETER J. WACKS, '30 

Peter J. VVacks, a veteran of 12 years of personnel work in the aircraft industry, is Assistant to the Executive Vice-President of Chance Vought Air­craft, Dallas, Texas. 
Bom in Binghamton, New York, he attended schools there before coming to Notre Dame. He took postgraduate training at the Cornell University Law School and, after receiving his LL.B. in 1934, practiced with the firm of Chemin & Gold of Binghamton. 
In January, 1938, Pete joined the FBI in Washington, and later became supervisor of espionage cases in FBI headquarters. From early 1942 to August, 1943, he served as administra­tive assistant to J. Edgar Hoover. 
He accepted a position as assistant director of plant protection for United Aircraft Corporation in August, 1943. In January, 1948, he transferred to that company's personnel department in East Hartford, Connecticut, and was appointed Personnel Manager of Chance Vought, then a division of United. He served in that capacity until April of this year when he was promoted to Assistant to the Executive Vice-President in charge of Labor Re­lations and Industrial Security. 
Pete and his ivife, Elizabeth, have two sons, Peter, 16, and Michael, 12. 
SEXTON, ENGLERT, and DIRE. JOE DIKE still lives In Oak Park, but I do not have an address for JIM SEXTON or LARRY ENGLERT. I wrote to Sexton in Texas at the time of our 25-year reunion, but received no reply. Possibly 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 43 
someone can give us a report on SEXTON and ENGLERT. 
The Class of '28 was represented by BERNIE GARBER at the X.Y, Club Communion Breakfast. BILL MURPHY, JOHN RICKORD and your class secretary' attended tlic Chicago Club Com­munion Breakfast. We missed the old regulars, sudi as HOWIE and DICK PHELANT'FR/VXK CREADON, BILL KE.\RNEY, BERT KORZEN and Judge JOHN LYONS. BERNIE GARBER sees FR-ANK DUQUETTE regularly as Uicy arc fellou* commuters. Frank, who has a son in high school, now lives at 34 Aldridge Road, Chappaqiia, 
N. Y. Bcmic also mentioned tliat he met ED FLYNN at hmch recently. He saw DICK PAR­RISH in New York City in November. Dick is editor of "Tlie West \'irginian" daily and won practically all awards in '56 given by tlic \Vcst \'irgima Association of Newspapers. 
BERNIE GARBER also gave nic a report on JACK L.WELLE Niirlit held on September 26, 1956, by tlic N.D. Club of New York. (Ed. Note: Sec article on "Jack Lavelle Night" in front sec­tion of tliis issue. JC) Bcmic said the afTalr was a tremendous tribute to Jack Lavelle. He saw GEORGE CRONGEYER, P.AT OVNNY, and BOB HAMILTON tliere from tlie Class of '28. Con­gratulations, Jack. We all agree that you deser\'cd this great tribute. We are looking for%%-ard to you and BOB KIRBY to scr\e again as tlic greatest of all toastmasters at our 30tli reunion. Inci­dentally, Bob Kirby has apparently recovered fn»m a heart attack sufTercd last summer. Bob reports tliat he and "tlie ubiquitous Jack Lavelle" got togetlicr in Indiana^wlis recently. In commenting on his illness. Bob remarked "After all—c\*cr\*one was having 'Eisenhoweritis' at that time—and even a poor Democrat had to be fashionable." 
GEORGE COURY reports that DAVE SMITH now lives at 11II North Lakeside Drive in Lake Wortli, Florida, some 65 miles from Miami. Dave attended tlic funeral of George's dad. Dave's many Chicago friends will be sorr>- to Iicar that he has become a Florida resident. As an arcliitect in Chicago, Dave has constructed many beautiful cimrclies, including our parish churdi, St. An­gela's. 
VINCE CARNEY, who is in the clothing busi-

Thc Four Horsemen in reunion at San Antonio, Texas where they were guests at a Quarter­back Club dinner. Left to right: Harry Stuhldrcher, Jimmy Crowley, Don Miller and Elmer Laydcn. While in San Antonio they %-isitcd their classmate, Joseph A. Mengcr, '25. 
ncss in Rocliellc, Illinois, wrote for Joe Sullix-an's address, as Vincc and his wife arc to visit Por­tugal, Spain, Italy, Germany and Austria tlus year. Vince has six cliildrcn. 
^^KE RICKS, who continues to practice law in Lafayette, Ind., has si?c citildren, ages 3 to 20. 

It wasn't too many years ago that Johnny Braddock, '38, was clouting a baseball for Jake Kline and setting speed records as a west dining hall "hasher." Today Mr. and Mrs. Braddock are the parents of Diana, Jerry, Mike and Denny, The Braddocks reside at 4617 Chase Ave., Bethesda, Md. 
He has a son at the Marine Recruiting Depot in San Diego; another a freshman prc-medic at Pur­due, and one at the Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minnesota. Mike has had some business contacts recently with BOB GRc\HAM wlio is a partner in the Gardner, Carton firai in Chicago. Bob has a son at N.D. Mike \Tsited Dr. FR.VNK HEGARTY this sunmicr in Pittsburgh. Frank has three daugh­ters and a son. 
Que of BILL BROWN's daughters was married tilts summer and another was professed as a Do­minican Sister. She is continuing her college studies at Rosary College, her mother's alma mater. His tliird daughter is at Clark College. He also has a fourtli daughter and a son who are younger. Bill is still interested in farming at Epwortii, Iowa. 
HENRY H/VSLEY*s oldest daughter. Sister Rita Agnes, formerly a student at Marquette Univer­sity, is in the Holy Cross Convent at St. Mary's. His son is in Iiis second year of pre-mcd at N.D. Hcnr>' has one more prospect for St. Mary's, but sho still has 8 years to go. Henr>*, who practices law in Fort \Vayne, Ind., was recently appointed to his tliird term as Master of tlic Fourtli Degree, 
K. of C, for Northern Indiana. Our Class President, Frank Creadon, had a card from TOM WALSH, City Atlomt>% Lincoln, Illi­nois, on the occasion of Frank's being a candidate for Trustee for the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund. Tom wrote in his usual humorous manner, "South Macon Fire Protection District has cast its \-otc for you, as has ^lacon Sanitary District, for both of whom I ser\'c as counsel. Tlio City of Lincoln (for wiiom I am counsel) xvould have done the same. We all agree they need more tenors on llic Board.'* I saw on page 171 of the December 23, 1956 issue of "Life" a picture of Frank Crea­don's daiighter, Marg:u-et Mar>% in connection with 
charitable work being done by the students at Rosar>* College. 
Father MARK FITZGER.\LD, C.S.C., was re­cecntly elected President of the Catholic Economic /\ssociation. Your Class Secrctar>' held this posi­tion in 1948. Father Mark, who spent the summer in Europe studying the International Labor Organi­zation, spoke on ''Tlic I.L.O. and Social Responsi­bility for Progress" at the Conference of the Catholic Association for International Peace, at Trinity College, Washington, D. C , in November. His talk appeared in the January* 1, 1957 issue of "Vital Speeches of the Day." Father Xfark attended an institute on "Current Issues in Em­ploj'ment Securit>-" whidi I arranged in October at Loyola University. I am looking forward to attending Father Fitzgerald's annual Labor-^^an­agcracnt Conference at Notre Dame in Fdiruary. 
Notre Dame AIuTiinus, Feb.-Mar.y 1937 

Fatlicr Filzgcrald and I are members of tlie Con­tinuing Committee of the National Catholic Social Action Conference. 
I am aware of 25th wedding anniversaries in 1957 for the following classmates: LEO FETTIG, Januar>- 16; WALLrVCE MacDOXALD, AprU 9; .MIKE HOGAX, April 21; RUBEN MOMSEN, April 23; GEORGE BE^VMER, May 14; BILL O'NEILL, May 28; CIL\RLES SCHLEGEL, June 18; LEO WALSH, June 25; HUDSON JEFFERY, June 25; JOHN FREDERICK, Aug. 27; PAT aVNNY, September 3; BILL BROAVN, October 1; GORDON BENNETT, November 12; FRED S\VIT2ER, November 23, and GLENN H.\TCH, Dec 3. Others mth silver wedding anniversaries in 1957 include Dr. JOHN GOCKE, MARTIN 
J. KIRWAN, and FLOYD SE.\RER. Unfortu­nately, a few classmates have failed to' respond to my many requests for biographical data, so my files are not complete enough to be certain that I havo included cvcrj-one with an anniversary in 
1957 on this list. Please let me know of omissions on this list. 
CHARLES N. KAISER is practicing 1a\v Jn Lakewood, Ohio. Chuck has three sons. One has finished college, another is in college and the third is in grade school. 
CHARLIE LYNCH has his law office at 735 State Street, Santa Barbara, California. He at­tended the Big 10 luncheon in Los Angeles before the X.D.-Southem California game and sat with ART C.\NTY. Art now has three granddiildren. Chariic reports that JOHN WALLxVCE decided he was as young physically as mentally and took a jaunt up into the mountains to go skiing with the usual results—a fractured hip. Charlie tells me that the back of the envelope in which JOHN FONTANA sent his Christmas card contained the statement, "In 1958 Let's Make It." Thanks, John, for promoting our 30-ycar reunion. I u-as also pleased to hear tliat CHARLEY LYNCH will come all the way from California for the affair. The many letters I have received ofTcring help and assuring attendance at our 30-year rcnmion in June 
1958 Indicate It mil be the greatest reunion ever held an>'whcre. 
Thanks to the many classmates who sent me ne%v-s for this issue, thus making another 1928 class column possible. I will need your continued help in 1957, as I will be busy with the Presidency of the Illinois Chapter of the International Asso­ciation of Personnel in Employment Security and the Vice-Presidency of the Catholic Council on Working Life. My regular work, as j'ou know, is to travel in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana as Regional Employment Security Repre­sentative for the U. S. Department of Labor and to teadi graduate courses in the Institute of Social and Industrial Relations two nights a week at Loy­ola University. 
I trust you will carry out the N'cw Year's reso­lution suggested In my Christmas letter to send me a clipping whenever you see a classmate's name mentioned In the nc^^'spaper or otlter sources, and to Avritc to me whene\-er you hear of any ncu-s about '28 men. Your continued cooperation in promptly responding to my requests for new3 will b: ver>- mucli appreciated. 
JOHN IGOE was selected Catholic ^tan of the Year in Columbiis, Ohio, by the Catholic Men's Luncheon Club for his work in his parish and in civic affairs. John is a city commissioner in Upper Arlington and on the boards of the St. Charles Seminary, St. Vincent's Orphanage, and St. Ra­phael's Home for tlie Aged. John, who is Vice-President of \1sintine, Jackson & Igoc, Inc. (Earth moving equipment, rental and excax-ating) has six children, ages 4 to 14. Congratulations John Igoe and thanks to JOHN FONT.VNA for sending the newspaper clipping on this interesting neu-s item. John Fontana mentioned tliaC he heard from a number of classmates during the holidays and that they all seemed to be looking forward to the 30th reunion in 1958. 
Speaking of Christmas greetings reminds mc that I had a card from the ART DENCHFIELDs from Trinidad. Art has four sons, ages 6 to 13. Two of his boys are in school in Denmark. Art's address is P. O. Box 603, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, B.W.L I apprcdatc very much the many Christmas cards I received from classmates. 
BILL MURPHY sent a card from ifiami, Flor­ida, where he %\'as visiting in January. He took in the Orange Bowl game. Bill saw GEORGE COURY, who, in addition to being a member of the N'cw York Stock Exchange, is now an official In three banks in Florida. 
1929 ^o°^ ^ J- Plunkctt 
Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

FRANCIS J. CUSHING's present address is Sunnysidc Sanitorium, 104 Trudeau, Indianapolis 26, Indiana. Last May, Frank made a pilgrimage to Lourdcs and Fatlma and is hoping to make the Patients* Air Pilgrimage to Lourdes in July. 
1930 I^cverc Plunkett 
0*Shaughnessy Hall 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

ED SEiTER of Lexington, Missouri, sent along the following note recently: 
"Thanks for the note. It was nice hearing from you but I don't have any neivs and I never see anyone from the class of 1930. Gee, that seems like a long time ago, and I guess it is. 
"My son is at St. Mary's College, ^Vinona, Minnesota. We did send you a friend of ours, Ronny So\vers; he is in Farley Hall and AB fresh­man. A non-Catholic but a good boy. 
*'Saw and spent the e\'emng with ^L\RC WON­DERLIX, '29, in Des ^toines this fall. Also vialed with PAUL Kx\PROWSKI and his family in ^\^nona where he is teaching at St. Theresa's and St. Mary's Colleges. 
"^ty father passed a\%-ay December 20th after an extended illness. *'i\s you can see, John and I are still in the hardware business, but I cannot learn to type. "Give my best to LOU HASLEY." JUDGE TOM McDOUGAL of Antigo, Wisconsin, sent a ver>' welcome letter in January 10: 
*'It was such a pleasure to receive your note asking for me to contribute to the alumni neivs, but as usual I am one of the feIlo%vs who live so far north that I cannot get down to the city, so I have not seen too many alumni. 
"We are just in the midst of a severe cold wave; temperatures dropped last night to 15 degrees below, so We have all ^ve can do here to work and return home. 
"I did see quite a few of the Notre Dame giadu-
Notrc Dame alimmi serving in engineering and scientific positions at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft division of United Aircraft Corporation in East Hartford, Connecticut, are, front row, left to right: Frank M. Lane, *55; James B. Coyne, '53; Roland N. Russell, '50; Clarence 
J. Bourret, '48; Donald Williams, '52; Robert E. Cleary, Ph.D., Chemistry, '53. Second row, left to right: Edward A. Pratt, '40; Arthur 
F. Niegel, '43; Frank Roberts, Jr., '47; George A. Banks, *54; James Kecnan, '53, and William J. Grunske, '51, Rear row, left to right: Robert B. Simmons, '50; Thomas J. Shea, '54; Charics Fickj '54, and Edward R. Tasko, '52. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar.y 1957 

ates last summer, but thc>- are not from our class. I played golf with GUS STANCE from Merrill, LEN DONOGHUE and FATHER JAMES LANE, %\-ho you know better than I do since he is down at Notre Dame. I managed to run into a fe^v Notre Dame men around the state, some of whom are Judges, but as you realize, I am practically the only one from diis small area wiio is a gradu­ate of Notre Dame. 
"I am wondering if you have met my boy since he has been at Notre Dame. I referred htm to you. He Is living in Dillon Hall and is sweating it out to get throu^ the first semester. I entered him at Notre Dame and drove him dou-n m>'5elf, but it had to be a hurried trip because I had to be back home for ^v'o^k on Monday and I didn't get a chance to sec you or Don. But this coming fall I am going to make a concerted effort to see at least one of the games. If you can tell me the one where most of the graduates of our class are going to attend, I will certainly make an effort to be there. 
"^fy \voT]i has been quite heavy and in addition 
to that, for the past year I have been ^pointed 
a member of tlie Legislative Council for Juvenile 
Judges and with our Legislature in session, I expect 
to be sort of a tra\*eling salesman tliis year because 
^^*e have a great deal of legislation affecting our 
juveniles coming up this term of the Legislature. 
"I am very sorry I cannot ^ve you any more 
news but I just don't have it. 
"I would like to extend to you and Don and 
your families my personal best wishes for a nice 
New Year in *57. I am very happy that you and 
Don have accomplished so mucli since you graduated 
from tlic University. 
*'I, like otiicrs in our class, am looking forward 
to the next reunion, if the Lord allows us to be 
there. TTie last one •was about the finest I c\'er 
attended. 
"Give my best regards to all the classmates and 
I whh I didn't live so far north so I could have a 
better contact with the fellows who graduated 
witli us." 
JOHN CIBBONS, Director of Public Relations 
for Automotive Safety Foundation, writes from 
•Washington, D. C : 
"Your nots reminds me that I haven't encoun­tered a 1930 classmate for a long time. AVith one exception: FRANK J. SOWA, whose chemistry re­search lab in Manhattan is going strong. Frank's oldest son, a Georgetown graduate and married, i« living here now, stud>-ing law at ^faryland U. Two more sons, Notre Dame graduates, arc in the serv­ice. Three more fine Sowa boys coming along be­hind tlicm! Tlic Sowas live in Cranford, N. J. 
"When you get around to organizing a "grand­fatlicrs' club" in the class, put me down as a charter member! (W^c can meet at reunions, ex­cliange snapshots and boasts.) Our granddaughter, now 18 months, naturally would win all the prizes. She belongs to the oldest of four daughters; the second oldest is planning a June wedding. 
"Only otiier news since I saw you is receipt by Jack, our son, of an "outstanding" citation from War Department, plus a 5200 bonus clieck, for his work as rcsearcli physicist his first year out of college. But that's an item for the class of 1953! 
"I'm going on an extended trip this montli tlirough the southwest and Pacific Coast, and will keep an eye out for classmates. If I meet any, will drop you another letter. Tliat's a promise." 
Attorney WARREN S. FOGEL in Ne\*' York City sent along some news from tlic eastern seaboard: 
"I received your note of January* 7, 1957, re­questing information on tlie 1930 boys that I have some information on and I hasten to respond to your deadline. 
**TIM O'ROURKE is presently recuperating from an illness but he ad\i£cs me that his recovery has been good and he expects to be back at the New York Life Insurance Company in early February. Tim told me tliat he sees CHARLIE DUFFY, Vice President of the Long Island Lighting Company, occasionally. Charlie has a boy at scliool in the sophomore class. 
"LARRY CRONIN is back in this area and now witli Greer Hydraulics, Inc. at New York Interna­tional Airport (Idlcuild). Larry tells me tliat he is in periodic contact witli PETE \VACKS who is with United Aircraft Corporation in Dallas, Texas. 
"JOHN MOT2, Publisher of tlic Kitdiencr-Watcrloo Record, Kitclicncr, Ontario, passed througli New York from Philadelphia last November where he attended the annual meeting of the American Newspaper Publishers' Assodation. My wife and I had tlie pleasure of having dinner with John and his wife at tlie Airport while awaiting the departure of John's plane for Toronto. 

46 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
"I occasionally have luncli with DON LAURIE 
who is with Westinghouse International Corporation 
and is living in Rumson, New Jersey. Don tells me 
tliat that community* has a growing Notre Dame 
Club, what with JIM FRIEL now living there and 
JOE LENIHAN, '29, about to move there. 
"I recently concluded a real estate deal witli TOM LANTRY in Westchester Countj* and Tom remains quite active in the field. His brother-in­law, CON CAREY, was down to visit the Lantrys with Mrs. Carey during Thanksgiving week but because of other pressures I was unable to see tliem. I hope to do so in the near future. Tom advised that Con and Mary are both in good shape. 
"GEORGE WINKLER is still the prime mover on Long Island and is ver>* faithful at attending tlie New York club meetings. 
"Do you ever hear from TOM PURCELL? Please publish any news about Tom that yoki may have. Tell JOHN'NY GOLDEN that the Christmas Card we sent him v\'as returned because of a wrong ad­dress. That's vs-hat X get for checking a Chicr^o telephone directory wliicli lists at least five John Goldens. 
"That's all for now, Devcrc. I hope you have lots of other nevre." BUS REDGATE, the sage of Bridgeport, reports on doings in the Connecticut Valley: 
"Hope this will reacli you in time for your up and coming ALUMNUS. 
"God bless JACK LA\^LLE for his kindness here a few weeks ago. He managed to see fit to ^ve up his bus>' scliedule with the National Champion­ship New York Football Giants to speak at the Fairfield Prep's undefeated team. He v\-as mag­nificent, and I certainly appreciated his giving up his time for these young bo>-s, but as you know. Jack has alvs'a>3 been tliat v\'ay. 
"A fc\%' weeks before the playoff in New York, I ran into TIM TOOMEY, tlic old left-hander, and he said he would be up in this neck of tlic woods real soon. We will be looking for him. 
"T. FENTON MURPHY is now with a Boston firm and is on the road most of the time. Don't 
see too mucIi of him, but his family is well whidi 
is most important. 
"My son Frtmk (number 2 son), a senior at Notre Dame Prep in New Haven, had a serious operation on his spine just before Christmas, but tliank God he is now in good shape and I hope he will be able to run in the Garden this winter again in the National Interscholastics. I am in hopes that ALEX WILSON will come East again this year v\ith a team from the University. Last year v%-as most enjo5"abIe, and tlic>' gave an excel­lent account of themselves. 
"May you have a very happy and healthy New Year, you and your family." 
JIM DEELY, Vice-President of tlie Brooklyn Union Gas Company, passed on to us several items of good ne\v3: 
**In response to your plea for news on your scholarly classmates of 1930, I offer the following: 

"I had a holiday reunion uith JIM DILLEY, his vrife, and one son. Jim is Athletic Director for the Ossining, N. Y. grade and high schools, and a highly regarded leader in ph>*sical education af­fairs in the Hudson River Valley area. Jim's other son, Jimmy, went "Iv>-" and is a senior at Prince­ton and majoring in nuclear chemistry. Also had Christmas cards from JOHN HOFFM/\N, now vice president of tlie ^licrofilm Corporation of Pcnns>iv'ania vrirh headquarters in Pittsburgh, and JOHN V. MORAN. "Jack" is Director of Pur­chases for the City of Boston and head of his own law firm. 
**As for myself, tv\-o major events tjccurrcd in the last quarter of 1956. Tlie first was very pleasant. It was my promotion from a5sistant vice president to vice president of The Brooklyn Union Gas Company, a thriving utility with over 1,000,000 customers. The second event v\-as distinctly the t>*pe I could do witliout—the removal of my gall­bladder to halt tlie activities of a gravel producing factory which had been doing a thriving business in connection with my personal plumbing. 
*'nie above is about all I can offer in the w:ay of ncv\-s. I hope the items are of help to you in 
Thomas B. Mardn (center), senior in electrical engineering at Notre Dame, receives a $•750 scholarship from the Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc., Santa Monica, Calif. Making the presen­tation is F. V. Edmonds, engineering personnel manager for the aviation firm. The ceremony took place in the office of Rev. Richard Murphy, C.S.C., (seated), director of admissions and scholarships at the university. 
DONALD J. WILKINS, '27 

Don WilkinSj in July 1956^ was elected vice-president of Ruthrauff & Ryan, Inc., one of the country's largest and oldest advertising agencies, with branch offices in 13 cities. He joined the firm in July 1953 as account ex­ecutive and manager of the Washing­ton, D. C. office. 
During his junior and senior years at Notre Dame, Don was business mana­ger of the Juggler at a time when the magazine received national recognition as one of tlie outstanding college peri­odicals in the country. After gradua­tion, he joined the advertising staff of the Chicago Tribune. In 1933 he entered the advertising agency field as an account executive and concurrently became an instructor in advertising, journalism and creative writing in Aus­tin Evening School, Chicago. 
Don's advertising career twice has been punctuated by tours of extended active duty as a Lieutenant Colonel in the Air Force, during World ^Var II and the Korean AVar. He was awarded the Bronze Star medal in 1945 while serving with General Eisenhower's headquarters in Europe. Following his return from overseas he became Chief of the Air Force office of public rela­tions. 
Don and his wife, the former Mar­garet Cosgrave of Omaha, reside in Bethesda, Marj'land, with their four children, two girls and two boys. 
pruductng an interesting section on the 1930 Class 
for the Alumnus. 
"Kindest i>crsonal regards and best ^\i5hcs for a 
happy and healthy year in 1957.** 
GEORGE O'.MALLEY fills in some more of the 
Washington, D. C , picture: 
**I enJo>xd receiving your letter requesting class 
news. I may not be of much help because I in­
frequently meet classmates. 
"I recently talked with JACK WALKER, who 
works in the Pentagon in the office of the Army 
Deputy Chief of Staff for Logistics. Jack has a 
son who is a freshman at Notre Dame. Brother 
FRANK WALKER works in the legal department 
of the Army. They both live in Virginia—a far 

cry from the sidewalks of New York. HARRY 
SYLVESTER lives in Washington. I imderstand he 
is a freelance ^mter. Last summer I saw him at 

a distance at the races. PAT CONWAY is still in 
the \Vashington area. BILL WALSH is still work­
ing for the Nav-y as a labor consultant. I have not 
heard from GIL PRENDERGAST since he was 
elected president of the Alumni Association of the 
University of ifaryland. Gil is probably busy 
tr>'ing to build up the ^far>'land football team. 
"I am still legal assistant to the Assistant Sec­retary* of tlic Naxy for Personnel and Reser\'e Forces. My tour of duty will probably end this summer. I hope to get overseas duty in Europe. My son Jim took his college board last Saturday. He has his fingers crossed and hopes he will be accepted at Notre Dame next September." 
JIM WALSH, an attorney in Dallas, wrote us a 

note: 
"Nice to hear from you and be able to tell you 

a little about ND men of *30. 
"PETE WACKS was the general Chairman of tlie rally before the ND-SMU game. Pete did a wonderful job. The SMU game brought se\'cral of the Class of *30 to Dallas. Had a nice visit with CHUCK ROHR and PAT CANNY. Saw FRANK LE^VHY and PAUL BUTLER during the game. 
"The American Bar Association held its National Convention in Dallas last summer and we bad a luncheon of tlie ND men at which Dean O'Mcara gave us a nice run down on current activities of the Notre Dame Law School. 
"Recently heard from our classmate JOHN MOTZ of Calendar, Ontario. He and his fine fam­ily are doing great. 
"Wc have a wonderful ND Club of Dallas and its membership and usefulness is growing rapidly. "All tlic best to you, Dcvcre, and my Class­mates." 
PAT GOGGIN, our Class Vice-President for the Far ^Vcst, wrote us an interesting account of some of his travels: 
**Xrany thanks for your kind letter and sugges­tion to drop a line for Class News for the Alumnus coming up in a few days. 
"Julia, the children and I are anxiously awaiting tile arriv'al of our wee littlo one in June. At the present time, we arc all quite well and enjoying the aftermath of the Holiday Season. 
"Tl!c world is indeed mighty unsettled but wc can still tliank God for our Catholic Faith—so cntrcndied on solid ground. The trials in this life can be really heavy at times but the tour of life on this earth leads to an eternal reward if we keep trying to follow the lighted path. I am well con­vinced the harder we work at it—the brighter the glow! 
"Julia and I visited Ireland via Pan American last stunmer. My good wife has many rclati\'es in Erin and lived in the country* for a year before \ve were married. One of my life long ambitions was finally realized. I shall alwa>-s remember that evcrj-onc wc met—cver>'wlicrc we visited—all Ire­land seemed to smile upon us, blessed us, and showered us witli gifts. Tliose treasured evenings sitting around a turf fire with relatives and friends will never be forgotten. I shall aluTiys have the feeling that I took away from Erin more than I ever contributed during my xisit. 
"During our visit in Claremorris, County Mayo, His Eminence Jolin Cardinal D*Alton, Primate of all Ireland, had just returned from a visit to the United States the day prior to our arri\"al. When His Eminence learned that my wife was \*isiting in Claremorris, he inWied both of us to attend his prix'atc Mass and have breakfast with him in his nicce*s home. John Cardinal D'AIton and my wife's fatlier attended the same primary school in Claremorris, County Mayo. His Eminence reminds me of the simplicity and saintlincss of both Pope Pius XII and Padre Pio. I met the Holy Father on two occasions during 1944 and scrv*ed Mass 
GEORGE C. GRIMM, '47 

George C. Grimm is the Executive Vice-President of a new company in Midland, Texas. He helped to orga­nize Petroleum Factors, Inc., dealing exclusively with the oil industry'. 
In the exploration and development phases of this business, it is a regular trade practice for some thirty, sixty, ninety or more days to elapse between the submission of an invoice by indi­viduals or companies supplying serv­ices, materials or equipment . . . and the receipt of its payment. 
Petroleum Factors ^vas formed by a group of Texas businessmen to furnish needed working capital to these or­ganizations by purchasing, at a dis­count, accounts receivable, thus bridg­ing the gap between the account's due date and its actual collection. It is the only company of its type dealing exclu­sively with the oil industr>'. 
Before assuming his present duties, George was with the International Har­vester Company for several years. He then joined the National Supply Com­pany for five years, and became Dis­trict Credit Manager with that firm in Fort Worth, Texas. 
He was preceded to Notre Dame by two brothers. Father Richard '33, now Assistant Religious Superior for the Congregation of Holy Cross at the Uni-. versity, and Albert '38. 
Active in the Knights of Columbus, George is married and has five chil­dren, three boys and two girls. 
Notrt Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 47 
for SaJDtly Padre Pio^ the sdgmatist, on several occasions while in Italy durins "WW II. I still hear from Padre Pio and he sends his blessii^ to my family and myself through Father Superior at the Convcnto Dei Cappuccini, ^{adonna DcIIe Grazie, San Gio\'anni Rotondo (Fog^a} Italy. 
*'Fo!Iowing our arri\:al in New York City from the Emerald Isle^ Julia and I attended Mass in St. Patrick*s Cathedral. You can imagine my ^rcat joy in renewing an old acquaintanceship fol­lo\s'ing Sunday Mass. Francis Cardinal Spcllman ^v c us his blessing and remembered the place and occasion in Italy during WAV 11. 
*'Bcst wishes to you and cver>-one on the Campus and Class of 1930." 
ARTHUR T. KIRK has recently moved from 1021 North Main, Rush\-ille, Ind., to 1801 Marilyn Avenue, Bayshorc Gardens, Bradenton, Florida. 
A note from GEORGE AVINKLER from Far Rockaway, New York reminded us that he will be bound for tJic South come June graduation: 
"Just a fci^' words to let you kno^v' that BOB ^lULHALL, my roommate for two years, and LARRY CRONIN, and myself saw Notre Dame-N\'U at the Garden last month. We were able to get together at dinner and had a very enjo\'able evening. 
"You probably know tliat TIM 0*ROURKE was laid up and is xvell on tlte way to recovery and should be back in tJic office in a icw days. 
"Have not heard an\t]iing from BILL BRO­MANN or ART DORWIX in a long time and wonder just wliat thc>* are doing in their respective communities. 
"I am looking fonx-ard to this year's Commence­ment as I %v'ill be going out with tlie purpose of seeing George III give his sheepskin. 
*'Trust I can see you tlicn, if not before." 

193 1 James T. Doyle 
•'•' " 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 

193 2 J^^^ ^ Collins 
3336 Kemnore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
25 yeAR 
a.€un\on 
June i I 7-&'9 r 

Plans are being made by the Reunion Committee for the largest and finest reunion we have ever had. Thex' are basing this on the premise that tliis being our 25th Reunion, almost cverj'one will be there. Since each of you vnll be hearing from the Com­mittee directly soon it is better that you get all the information there than from this column. 
BUD GROVES writes from 4720 .\rcade Drive, Fresno, California, that he expects to be back in June, He is a Special Agent of tlie FBI there. 
BOB LEE WTitcs that the Na\y has uprooted him from his pleasant surroundings with his family in Florida and sent him to sea. The Commander has been ordered to be Legal Oflicer of the staff of the Seventh Fleet, based somewhere in the Yoko­suka area. He said one of tlie disagreeable things about this was tiiat he would miss the Reunion but that he is planning on tJie 30th already. His new address is Staff, Commander Seventh Fleet, FPO San Francisco. 
BILL WALTZ is all set for the Reunion and among other tilings is looking at the lack of a Class trcasurj- with the cold eye of a banker. Being the Cashier of the Ohio-Merchants Tnist Company entitles him to that, and we will un­doubtedly hear more from him on that. He men­tioned that he had a visit ^xitli CILVRLEY DOERR at the ^fichigan State game. His oldest son, Dan, is in the Brunncrdale Seminary in Canton with the Predous Blood Fathers. 
With all the talk of tlic Retmion, a note of sad­ness comes in when we learned of the deatli of JIM KELLEHER in December. He w*as a 'wonder­ful fellow, and will be greatly missed, FATHER THO\L\S O'DONNELL, C.S.C., Associate Director of the N.D. Foundation, will say a Mass for him on February* 2. His home was at 721 Dean Street, Kent, Washington. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
1 93 3 J^'scpb '^* ^IcCabc 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
In keeping with tlic motto "Let's communicate for '58," President GEORGE ROHRS, Rcum'on Co-Chairmcn JOHN 0*SHAUGHNESSY and sin­cerely yours the undersigned undersecretary-, had a meeting se\-eral weeks ago and launched Opera­tion Direct Mail. W wrote a group of classmates asking if they would contribute a minimum of $10 tou-ard the expense of a general class mailing. 
As we go to press the total has reached $250. I've never belic\"ed in the Unsung Hero theory, so here's a list of your high classmates: 
George Rohrs, New York. John 0'Shaughncss>-, Winnctka, III. JOE Mca\BE, River Forest, III. FRED BECKLENBURG, Wnnetka, III. TOM SEXTO.N', Wilmctte, III. JACK HOYT, New-York, FR-ANCIS J. O'KEEFE, Piqua, Ohio. JOHN 
R. JOYCE, Chicago. ED STEPH.AN, E\-anston. ED GAUSSELIN, Chicago. JOE DOCKENDORF, Skokie, in. AL DRYMALSKI, Chicago. FRANK M.VTAVOSKY, Chicago. TOM KENNEDY, Oak Park, III. MARTY LINSKEY, Oak Park, III. PAT CROUXEY, Wilmette, III. ED ECKERT, Al­bany, .N. Y. JACK TR^W^RS, Buffalo, N. Y. FR.\NK aVAVTEY, New York. ANDY BOCCI, Middlctown, N. Y. ART BccVAR, Louisi,ille, Ky. 
Tlirce dicers and a tiger for each and every one of tlic above, mates! I wbh I had time to write them all personally and thank them—but until I get time to do so, my personal thanks to all. 
.As an indication of how much money is needed, tlic $250 will not pay tlic cost of c%'en one mailing —and we'd like to schedule a number of them before llic reunion. We need these general mail­ings for two reasons: to arouse enthusiasm for the reunion itself by getting news; and collecting dona­tions for the cjass gift. 
As I said, the money so far collected will not pay for even one mailing. So all who can help are urged to do so. If you can follow the example of those listed above, make your contribution at least $10, If not make it whatever you can. 
AVe all know how unpleasant a topic "money donations" make—everj-onc is surrounded on all sides by outstretched palms. But wc don't have too long a time until the big night of our 25lh reunion. A large part of the crowd present that niglit will be members of the class of 1928 . . . and if you remember (THEY'LL remember!) many of us ^vere present on the night of their 25th when they made a gift to the university of $15,000. 
Perhaps we can^t come any\vhere near that extraordinary' offering, but we ought to have at least a token remembrance to remind the authori­ties that 1933 didn't draw a blank. 
So—let's cverxbody that can, get into the act. Send at least $10 NOW to Jack 0'SJiaughncss>% 10 S. LaSalle, Chicago, or co-diairman Jack Hoyt, Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison, New York, for the "1933 Class Reunion Fund"—the name of the account John has set up in a Loop bank. And start 5a\'ing for a contribution to the class gift. 

Speaking of that, \ve'rc not sure as yet just what form would be best in the line of a gift. Several alternatives are being discussed by the frommittcc wiUi Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG and other authorities at the university so that all con­cerned will reach an agreement on the matter. All scliools and institutions prefer donations to be without strings, so that those charged with the operations of the institution can apply them to the greatest current need. 
I'm sure wc are all in s>Tnpathy with this moti­\-ation. Yet inasmucli as ^ve arc (or hope we will be able to) make a gift as a class we would like to donate something tangible which could get a *'crcdtt line" and retain its identity for future generations to see. Maybe they might even mur­mur, "Hey those guys from '33—thc>' could write, at that." 
AVhich brings up my eternal refrain: AVhcre's Your Line? You know, that line or two you were going to drop me about your newest cliild —or hey, maybe I should say GRjXNDchild—or the guy moved in next door last month and all of a sudden you nnticcd he was a '33 .. . or other neve's. LINE up, men! 
Still, things could have been worse. For one thing wc got a . . . 
DETROIT REPORT Who was on the other end of the phone two montlis ago but your old pal and officcr-of-thc­class ED "Judge Crater" MORIARTY. Took sev­eral minutes for the news to sink in I was so stunned to hear from him but am delighted to say he looks fine. Ed is now sales and advertising manager of ^fariblast Corporation, 315 First St., Hoboken, N. J. JACK BREEN u-as with him, also looking hale and hearty despite an evening yvitk FRED BECKLENBURG and other Chlcago­ans. Between Brccn and Xforiarty >'Our reporter came tip with the follou'ing data and ditto: VIC SHAFFNER is practicing law in Detroit; so is TED FELDMAN; ED ACKER\L\N is assistant director of Catholic Charities in that area; JOE BORDA an old Dctroiter, is still in Washington with National xVssociation of Manufacturers; JOE DOCKMAN is still a Baltimorean, no dope on occupation; ERNIE GARGARO is located in De­troit; GRANGER WILDE is assistant publisher of the Port Huron (Mich.) "Times-Herald" and other publications. 
Received also a letter from PHIL DARMODY, now residing at 110 Wiitraore Terrace, Silver Spring. Md. .. . which reminds me of a mem­ory: when "WW II was still on, ^fcCabe ^^-as young 
DENVER—^Thc Christinas dance committee was composed of (left to right): Thomas J-Gargan, chairman; A. L. Douds; and Donovan C. Rieger. 
enough to wear instead of feci blue, and w*as as­signed as one of tlic officers in Navy Public Rela­tions, Washington. Tlirough tlic good offices of TOM McKEVrrr, '32, Uic ifcCabcs subleased an apartment in Silver Spring. First morning there, my fair lady Ann put her head out the door and said: "The Pied Pipcr*s in town!" Sure looked like it—never saw so many kids per capita In all my life. 
Well, it's interesting to know that things havcn*t changed in Silver Spring . . . read the following, sent by Phil Darmody's wife Ruth: 
"News for 1933—on July 22, 1955, wc became parents of TRIPLETS—boys—increasing our count to seven boys. (Girls—0). 
"Tlicy now enjoy a healthy sixteen montlis, toddl­ing and climbing into and onto evcri'tlnng. 
"Phil would have wTittcn this but I^•e kept him busy feeding babies in his recent spare time! The babies are a Joy to us and their brothers. Wc hope they all can attend Xotrc Dame . . . !" 
That's terrific, Phil and Ruth . . . more power to you. As a guy with three girls (boys—0), I'm sure glad to sec someone else preserxing nature's balance .. . as well as rcad>'ing future N.D. niuii. 
Here's another communication: as many of you know. Art BccVar, the talented lad who did fa much to bngbten up the pages of the "Juggler" Back When, is manager of industrial design for General Electric's appliance divisions. Art's promi­nence in tlic field XN'as signaled by an imitation to contribute to informal discussions on industrial design at a meeting in London. 
One of the leading trade magazines in the field —"Design"—commented at some length on the gathering—and in the belief that Art's many friends would like to know just what was said, here's a quote from the magazine verbatim: American Designers Speak 
The first of what is hoped will be many Informal discussion meetings in The Design Centre took place recently between three distinguished Ameri­can designers and members of the Society of Indus­trial Artists and CoID staff. The designers— Arthur N. Bec\'ar, Walter C. Granville and Alan 
R. Gripe—were risiting London for a lew days on the last lap of a European tour extending to Rome, Flonrnce, ^filan, Zurich, Hamburg, Copen­hagen, Helsinki and Stockholm. Each of the vh­iting designers gave a brief account of his work illustrated with numerous colored slides. 
Arthur N. Becvar, manager of industrial design for the Appliance and Television Division, General Electric Co., and president of the American Society of Industrial Designers, had some encouraging, and for an American, revolutionary things to say about design for artiBdal obsolescence, particularly in the domestic appliance industries. 
Following his trip abroad. Art attended an ad­vanced session in upper Ne%v York state. Just received a letter from him: "I just got back from school last xveck—and what an experience. It was a xvondcrful opportunity but with a lot of hard work." So^tliose who'd like to drop him a line will find him again at Appliance Park, Louisville 1, Ky. 
That's all for a wMIc, lads—except for the re­minder to stress the special devotion to the Blessed Virgin Nfar)*. The evidence continues to mount on cvcr\- side that this is the Age of ifary. Only last week one of America's leading cliurclimen repeated this over and over in a pastoral message. Just think wliat a special break we have, in being graduates of Her School .. . if wc take ad\-antagc of this opportunity. Sometimes in trying to widen this de\'otion I sense a feeling that it is for the ladybirds. But history- proves that tlie most vigor­ous and masculine saints were among the leaders in espousing the cult of Mar\'. So too were our greatest Popes—including especially the present Holy Father. We all bear the Divine adjuration i ' that wo must earn our bread by the sweat of I our brow . . . but if we put the clialn of rosarv' I ^ beads to work—the work will be much caster! i Remember especially our departed classmates In I your rosary. Tlie list of tho departed is getting longer .. . and there's a place for ever>' one of 
i us. It's only a matter of time, God's time. 
1 , P.S. Just got a clipping from "The Bengalesc," a publication devoted to the Bengal missions, con­taining a very Hne tribute to a classmate whose selfless vocation has probably earned blessings for all his classmates. I refer to Brother JUDE COS­_ TELLO, C.S.C., who left a promising career as a teacher and administrator In the Holy Cross Broth­ers to volunteer for overseas duty (tlie missions). A few months after being assigned to Dacca he was named headmaster of St. Gregory's High School, 
LLOYD P. STOLICH, '37 

One of Notre Dame's outstanding alumni in the California area is Lloyd 
R. Stolich who received his degree in 1937. Recently he has been the gen­eral chairman for a successful parish fund drive which aided In the reduc­tion of a million dollar debt on the Palma Parochial High School. 
He has also been a civic leader in the commimity as well as a well-known Salinas business executive. This past year, Lloyd was a member of the board of directors and "big gift" chairman of the local Community Chest drive. He has served as exalted ruler of the Elks and vras grand knight of the Knights of Columbus for two years. 
Lloyd is a charter member of the Salinas Serra Club and is past presi­dent of the Grower-Shipper Associa­tion. 
Lloyd is associated with his brother, Peter, a graduate of St. Mary's Col­lege, Moraga, Calif., and co-owner of the Stolich Packing Company which ships vegetables from that area to eastern markets. 
a position he held for 12 years. He left this posi­tion to open St. Joseph's Industrial Scliool for Boys, also in Dacca. Recently he attended the General Chapter meeting of the order in Rome, and returned home following the meeting. But after a short stay he annouced *'Too much to be done to stay any longer"—and Brother Jude set ofT again for Bengal .. . a lancer for the Lord. 
1 034 '^' ^•J*™'^'^ Carey 
18843 Inglewood Avenue 
Rocky River, Ohio 

This space has not cost the Altunni /\ssociation a lot of money for printing lately, nor has your secretary ivom out any letter- openers handling the incoming mail. However, plans are afoot to pry you lads loose from your anonymity and perhaps name some names in these paragraphs whiti will bring us up to date on one another. 
You will receive a questionnaire shortly, and you arc enccwraged—nay, entreated—to complete and return same promptly. 
The '34ers are still able to get aroimd as note the following moves: Dr. JOHN BIRCH fnmi Onargo, III. to Box 316, Abingdon, Va.; LOU BRO^VN from Salt Lake City to 2426 Hampstead, Wichita Falls, Texas; TOM DAVID from Alex­andria, La. to 126 Hudson, Pineville, La.; BOB DE­MER from Honesdale, Pa. to 501 Rosewood Lane, Lenker Manor, Harrisburg, Pa.; ART DOERF­LER from San Francisco to 33-30 78th St., Jack­son Heights, L. L, N. Y.; ED FITZMAURICE from New York to Jell.O Division, General Foods Corp., 175 West Jackson BKxl., Chicago 4, III.; JACK HAGAN from Salt Lake City to Box 45, Youngstown, Ohio; ED MANSFIELD from San Francisco to 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif.; ERNIE AL\SSIMINE from Cucuta, Colombia to Texas Petroleum Co., Apartado Aereo 3622, Bogata, Colombia. BILL MCCARTHY from Pittsburgh to 7242 Constance Ave., Chicago 49; FRANCIS Mc-GAHRON from West Islip, L.L, N.Y. to Exec Sec-retard*, Catholic Youth Organization, 191 Joralemoik St., Brooklyn 1, N. Y.; JERRY McGLONE from Springfield, lU., to c/o Federal Housing Admin., 628 East Adams, Springfield, 111.; DR. JIM Mim-PHY from Richmond Heights, Mo.; to 607 North Grand BM., St. Louis 3, Mo.; CHUCK QUINN from Mineola, N. Y. to P. O. Box 1962, Delray Beach, Fla.; JIM REEVES has turned up at Boyle, Feller & Ree\es, 25 Broad St., New York 4, N. Y.; JERRY ROACH from Chicago to 1225 Aurora Way, IVbeaton, 111.; and JOE YOUNG from Far Hills, N. J. to Hillandale Rd., Armonk, N. Y. 
VINCE McALOON is on the faculty of the Notre Dame International School for Boys which is conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross in Rome. His present address is Hotel Alicomi, Via Scossacavalli, Rome, Italy. 
JULIUS J. KIRALY was recently transferred to the Internal Auditing Section of the U. S. Gyp­sum Company. He has been with the company for eleven years. 
ANTHONY F. ANZLOVAR has been appointed vice-president and assistant general manager of Mercast Mantifacturing Corporation, LaVemc, Calif. In his UCTV position, Tony will be directly responsible for sales, engineering and production in the firm which specializes in the manufacture of precision castings for the aircraft, electronics and missile industries. He is married and he and his wife, Eileen, arc the parents of six children. 
Dr. JOHN B. PORTERFIELD is director of the Department of Mental Hygiene for the State of Ohio. 
STEWART OSBORN is the appointed comptrol­ler of Texas Eastern Transmission Corpoiation, Shtt:veport, La. He and his ^vife Catherine are the parents of one son. 
The nc^v director of foreign sales of Interna­tional Cosmetics, export tlivision of Lanolin Plus, Inc., Chicago, is WILLIAM N. McCORMICK. Bill previously served as Regional Sales and Ad%*ertis­ing Director of Sterling Products International, Sao Paulo, Brazil, and director of the Export Man­agement Division, Dayton, Price and Company, Ltd., New York. His present address is 3936 Clausen Avenue, Western Springs, 111. 
You will be saddened to hear of the death of ROBERT S. HANLEY, JR., on July 20. A Mass card has been sent in your name to Bob's widow at 1434 Pleasant Lane, Glenriew, 111. 
Ne^vs of a more pleasant nature comes from FRANK McCANN in Ne»vark. He proudly an­nounces the birth of Michael Kevin and an accom­panying photo indicates that the youngster is going to be even better looking than the old man. 
Through the Alumni oIHce we received the fol­lowing excerpt from a letter from an unknown correspondent: *'TOM RO.\CH is going strong here (Grand Rapids). He is president of the Pub­lic School Board, w*ith an immense- building pro­gram in progress. He is a past Exalted Ruler of tlic Elks, and the senior partner in a very good and prosperous law firm. Incidentally, he is quite an orator." 
That's the kind of stuff that keeps a Class Sec­retary happy. Go thou, and write liknvise. 
Recent news reveals new honors for BOB WARD of Chillicothe, III. Bob was elected President of the. National League of Postmasters of the United 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 49 
Champion shimmers (left to right) Kerry O'Hara and his brother Tom; both are sons of Mr. and Mrs. Ed O'Hara, '35, Buffalo, 
N. Y. Their athletic achievements are in­
cluded in Class Secretary Frank Hochrieter's 1935 column (this issue). 
States. Congratulations! (Ed. Note: Bob is fea­tured as a "Spotli^t Aliinums" in this issue.) 
Had a nice visit with BOB BUTLER. Bob was here for the funeral of his brother Al, N.D. '37. Our s>inpathy to Bob. 
The past football season brought some of the bo\-s out of hiding. DAVE FROEHLICH uas a steadv patron of Mr. a\HILL's (Ed. Note: A\Tio??) em­porium, and We exchanged greetings and second guesses on a number of Saturdays. HARRY ROCK­ETT journeyed out from Boston for the Micliigan State game and was disappointed in not scang more of you around. 
AVe caught up with TOM STRITCH at Mass one Sunday after one of the games. The Professor has evcr>-thing under control in his Department of Journalism. He reported a pleasant \isit during the autumn with DON BRICE, who came out to lecture "to the bo>-s in the Commerce Sdiool. Lec­ture a letter to your Secretary-, A. Donald, and give ' 
us some \\x>rd of the "Finchleys." 
From the Alumni Office: 
Announcement has been recently made of the engagement of Mrs. Marian O'SIiaughnessy Lv­man to THOMAS BURKE. Tom is executive as­sistant manager of the Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chi­cago. The marriage will be on March 2 at St, Joan of Arc Church, Skokic, 111., where Mrs. L>'man has lived since the death of her husband nearly four years ago. 
1935 FranUyn C. Hochreher ^' ^ 702 Scarlett Drive Baltimore 4, Maryland 
^\'e arc getting this column under way a little late for deadline but we're hoping that the Editor will be patient with us and set it tip in type none­theless. As a matter of fact we have been trying to get to it ever since DAN YOUNGERMAN called us long distance a week ago to give us a fill in for a column. Up to the time of his call wc had little more than copies of letters among the officers to report on. Dan's call brouglit us luck and - copy. 
Hope you all notice the new address at the head of this column. AVc got in for Christmas—Friday before—and actually had a tree and a lire in the fireplace for the f>ccasion. At the moment—January* 15—wc are all settled except for some bookcases to be built as soon as the cabinet maker gets around to tliem. Then we can schedule a feu* open houses and wrap up the housc%\:arming5 in a fast round of entertaining. 
When Dan called the other evening he caught tis in the middle of a TV rehearsal for a doctunentary that wc were commissioned to write and produce for a local station. After it is out of the ^vay this Sunday evening we can concentrate on our Drama Workshop that ^\^c arc teaching for the local Telephone Company, and our April show at 

50 Notre Dame AhmnuSt Feb.-Mar,j 1957 
the Vagabonds. Bctv*-ccn times we'll be trying to make the outside of the new home look as good as the interior. Any contributions of bulbs, shrubs, plants and trees will be gratefully accepted. ^VE ARE SERIOUS! ! ! (Ed. Note: How large is your pool—I' liave an old, bcat-up alligator looking for a ne%v home. JC.) 
Enough about your reporter—^just wanted to bring you up to date, if you are interested. 
ED O'HARA's wife sent along a* verj- newsy note and enclosed a photograph (whicli ^vc hope the Editor will use) and some clippings about young son, Kcrr>-. First to the letter: 
"Since you're the Scribe for the Class of '35, and my hu.sband Is both negligent and busy, I'll sub for him and bring you up to date on the O'llara's. 
"Ed is with the New York State Department of Health—assistant administrator of the Bufl'alo Re­gional Oflicc. He has held this civil service job for the past four years—previously being witli the Niagara County T.B. and Health Assoaation. Be­fore that, he did Health and Pliy Ed teaching in the Roclicster scliools, Hilton, N. Y. and Ham­mondsport, N. Y. 
"It will be twenty years this June since we were married in the Log Chapel by the N.D. President, now fVrcIiblshop O'Hara. TIic family now consists of 3 children: Tim, 13; Kerry, II and Maureen, 3. 
"I am enclosing a contribution -to the N.D. Foun­dation whicli you may forward through tlic proper channels. .•Mso, a picture of the two boj-s taken this past summer when Tim was 12 and Kerrj* 
10. It shou-5 them with their accumulation of medals and trophies which the)' acquired In the past two years at x-arious swimming meets held here In the city, county and state, as well as in Pittsburg and Canada. 
**Since this picture A\-as taken they have won even more. Kerry was awarded a national AAU emblem and is the first boy in the Buffalo area to receive one. TliIs was for breaking the national record in the 100 meter individual medley relay. 
*'I am sending tlie newspaper clipping on two big events so you won't think we're just bragging. After the AAU records were published for 1956, it turned out that the Rocky Mountain district boy, whose time Kerr>' beat, bettered his own time and retained first place but Kcrr>* holds second spot. Besides these national records he broke 10 local records, including diving. 
'*Tim, the older boy, holds some county and city titles, too, in breast stroke and back. Maureen entered her first competition this summer. She*s a free stylcr and a back strokcr but doesn't do much yet since she s\rims with the 10-year and under class, but the experience Is good for her.** 
Wc are certainly Indebted to Agnes O'Hara for  her letter and the enclosures. Ed and his wife have every reason to be proud of their two sons. Imagine the thrill of reading such headlines as these on your local sports page: *'Tonawanda Swim Ace Sets National Record In Boys Club Meet Locally,** and "O'Hara, 10, Cuts National Individual Medley Record." 
The Foundation check shall be sent along with this column so that it may be tallied with the otiier Class of '33 contributions. In the name of the class wc thank both Ed and Agnes for the gift. 
Twvard the end of the year wc received an an­nouncement fr«jm ED LeJEUNE telling us of the formation of "E. G. Lejeunc Co., Consulting Engi­neers Specializing In Construction Costs." Ed was formerly with the Inland Construction Co. TIic new Lejeune Company ^vill have offices at 7848 Lincoln Avenue, Skokic, Illinois. Tlianks for the note, Ed. 
Another announcement that came along recently concerned DICK PREZEBEL who late in '56 was appointed Art Director of Compton Advertising, Inc. in Chicago, with offices at 141 ^Vest Jackson Boulevard. Prior to this post, Dick vras Art Di­rector for Potts, Woodbur>', Inc., In Kansas City, Missouri, since 1948. The past year he was elected president of the Art Directors Club of K.C. In 1954 and '55 he was the winner of the Nfcdal Au-ard at the K.C. Art DIrccrtors Show. Con­gratulations, Dick!! Nice going! 
A short note came from JACK DUFFEY late in the year concerning the Alumni Board elections. Jack had proposed DICK SULLIVAN as a candi­date and he was accepted by the Nominating Com­mittee. Wc were pulling for Dick all the way. Jack! 
Incidentally, we hope that WALT MATUS made contact with JACK BREEN, MATT SAGARTZ and JOHN KREBSER after recdnng their ad­dresses from the Alumni Office last October. Now we'd like to hear from them, too. 

A fascinating sheet arrived two days ago. It was the first page of "Women's Page and Society" from "The Milwaukee Journal" of November 28, 1956. ^Vc would like to quote a few paragraphs because It concerns two other cliildren of a '35er —this time the very young daughters of ED KIL­MURRAY and his lovely artist wife. 
**Most artists must wait years for their works to bang in hallowed halls. But this month, a Mil­waukee galler>* t-chlbits' dozens of pieces ranging from sand castings to mosaics by a pair of pro­digious young artists not yet old enough to enroll in kindergarten. 
"The craftsmen wear cowboy hats instead of berets; plaid shirts instead of smocks. Tliey often get as much paste in their hair as on the projects at hand. Yet, for galler\-goers who long ago forgot tlic magic of fairy tales and let's pretend the sheer joy of color and line and the glory of poking clay into shape, the work of Kathleen Kilmurray, 4, of 3149 S. Superior St., and her sturdy little sister, Maiuxen, 3, is a *pcck Into a cliild's world* and the key to the misunderstood value of children's art. 
"Here in the stairwell gallcr>- at San Damiano studio. Cardinal Strltcli College, dwell butterflies, kittens In baskets, 'Tonto, My Indian,* 'A Mail Train Going Vcr>- Fast,* piercing portraits of fam­ily and friends, engaging 'Dragon Sweet Puss in the Woods,' a green and orange papier mache turtle named Prince Charming. 
"Not that their work is particularly outstanding, quickly pointed out their artist-mother, Mrs. Ed­ward Kilmurray, who has quietly steered her daugh­ters' activity. But because It includes work from the day each of the girls could hold a crayon, the exhibit is meant to show parents and teachers how early, gcutly guided and encouraged efforts can lead a cliild to master those skills which will help him to be an expressive, creative adult." 
We could go on and quote the whole article to >-ou and we believe that you would find it as *'amazing" (to borrow Mrs. Scribe's term as she road it) as the Hochrdter's did. Suffice to say the full page spread of color pictures and the half pi^c story made it apparent once again that this *35 crowd is quite a gang. And they seem to have found fabulous wives, and are giving to the world a generation of interesting leaders in many facets of living. Our felicitations to the Kilmurrays and their ofTsprlng! 
And with the exception of new addresses for some of our men (which wc will save 'til last) that brings us to correspondence between and among your class officers and the end of the year financial report. 
Let's start with Prexle JIM HANHLTON's report on the Oklalioma weekend meeting. Jim wrote us 
CLASS OF 1935—Committee members met in South Bend during the Oklahoma weekend to plan for the big 25-year reunion in 1960. Left to right: Ed Van Huisseling, midwest vice-president; Mrs. Van Huisseling; Bill Ryan; Phil Purcell west vice-president; Mrs. Ryan; Mrs. Hamilton; Jim Hamilton^ president. Other committee members not present for the photo included Dan Youngemian, Paul Fergus and Andy Maffei. 
immediately after the gathering and said that the turnout u-as almost 100%. Your Scribe had written that he could not make it and at the last minute CAMILLE GRAVEL hod to cancel out. But here arc selected quotes from Jim's letter which should be of interest to >iou all. 
"The South Bend fellows, namely RY/\N, YOUNGERMAN and FERGUS, as usual did a good job of organization and our time u'as fu>mplctely token tip with pleasant activities. 
"Those present for the weekend were BILL RYAN, ANDY MAFFEI, DAN YOUNGERM.\N, PHIL PURCELL, ED VAN HUISSELING, PAUL FERGUS and Jim Hamilton. All had their wives present with the exception of Purcell, who is look­ing for a rich widow. {If any of our classmates know of one please forward the name to Purcell in Salt Lake City.) 
*'Wc had dinner at Ryan's Friday night, brunch at Youngcmian's Saturday and cocktails after the game at Fergus'. We then went lo the Indiana Club where wc continued the festiritics. 
"Tliere was a business meeting Friday night and Dan Youngcrman passed out lists of the classmates who had made contributions. It was decided that ratlicr than get out another general letter at this time, the \ice-presidcnts would take over and attempt to inform those who did not contribute of tlic need to do so. Tliis gives our Veeps somc­tliing to do and will strengthen our territorial organization. 
"It's imperative that evcr\"one in the class be­comes a part of our plans since wc are thinking in a big way with regard to putting on our 25tli Reunion. We have already established a reputation for putting on tlic best reunions and want to add lustre to this reputation as far as our 25th Reunion is concerned. 
"Dan Youngemian, who is working for the Atomic Division of BcndLx, is tr\*ing to arrange for a guided missile to bo fired over ttie campus at our reunion." (Knowing Dan, your Scribe figures that he might just arrange it, too.) 
It was bad enough missing the weekend, but after receiving Jim's rundown, \vhich ^*'as followed in the next mail u-ith one from Ed Van Huisscling, (not to mention what happened over Navy weekend) we wbhcd that somehow we would have been able to sneak away from the last minute plans for tlie team's biennial risit to Baltimore. 
Tlic hospitality* of the South Bend gang must have been tremendous. Said Ed—"If I were to accuse Jim of anything, it would be tmdcrstatemeni of the phenomenal job tJie South Bend boj-s did in proriding a weekend of extreme pleasure for us out-of-towners. Tliis, together witli tlie vcr>' genuine hospitality displayed by not only the bo)3 but their very graaous and charming ladies, leaves nte but to ofTcr to you and tha ^^rs. my con­dolences for >'our not having been able to attend." 
' To Ed a thanks for his fill'in and to the Indiana committee a commendation from us, with a quick comment—wc know you can't be beat as hosts! 
We're not too sure, since wc have received no reports from . tlicm, what the three other Vceps have been doing as tlic result of the South Bend "pep meeting," but the Van Huisseling territory has been cmvered with letters by its officer in charge. Early in December wc received a copy of a letter to Jim Hamilton in whidi Ed gave a review of his work and the result of it. Nine men sent in $10 contributions to the class fund and another added $8 to his original $2 so he too, is paid up for the five year period. (Remember the officers are asking for a minimum of §2 a year per man or a total of $10. Tilts is small enough to make us click in high gear in 1960.) 
Ed passed along a netv's item of interest. He received a card from ROCCO SCHIRALLI which noted that the latter is in the real estate and insiir­
[' anCQ business and tliat his old roommate JOE 
' JOHN is somewhere in North Carolina ^rith . DuPont. 
On December 27th Ed sent us a copy of another letter to Dan Youngennan in which he listed se\-en more men who were planning to send along $10 I contributions; another who ^v'os sending $10 to add to a prerious $3, (making his total $15); six men i who were fon%'arding $8 which could be added to previous contributions of $2; and a new $2 man. !' There u-as a Januarv- 7th follow-up from Van Huisscling listing two more $8's for *56, and two 
- ne\*' $10 contributions in *57. Tliis midwest Veep is really hitting on all eight! 
And that brings us to Dan Youngerman's long distance phone call of the other evening and his confirming letter which came before wc started to write. 
Incidentally, before we get to Dan's letter and 
ROBERT E. WARD, '34 
Robert E. AVard has been elected National President of the National League of Postmasters of the United States, at the Annual Convention recently held in Saint Paul. Minnesota. 
Bob was married in 1940 to Mar)' 
E. Hanes of Jersej'viilej Illinois, and they have two adopted sons, Rob, 10, and Mike, 9 years of age. 
He is currently postmaster of Chilli­cothe, Illinois, having been appointed to that position in 1944. Bob is Past President of the Kiwanis Club of Chilli­cothe; Past Commander of Post 9 and Peoria County Council; Vice-Chair­man, Americanism Commission, De­partment of Illinois; and was selected as Illinois Postmaster of the Year in 1956. 

his financial report, wc would like to dwell a moment on a rather touchy subject. You will note that in our last few comments we have mentioned only numbers of mon and amounts of class con­tributions. We have gotten ofT the grapevine slight rumblings of unhappiness on the part of the Alumni Board that they are concerned about our last pub­lication of names of contributors and the amounts of their contributions. 
In this trip to press wc are endca\'Dring to con­form to this rumble, though wc personally are not in agreement with it. Too long have we been a Foundation Chairman and a Class Secretary not to know the pros and cons of the publication argument. But wc have always felt that,' with lew exceptions, the argument against publication was sometimes quite thin. Nevertheless, we have conformed. 
Tlie matter of class'contributions toward a class fund for a class 25ih Reunion wc personally con­sidered in a completely different category. Pos­sibly Wc were wrong. Possibly it Avas because of our publication of names and amounts that more has not come in, that tlicrc was not a more uni­versal cooperation with your officers* program. If this be the case we would appreciate hearing fron> you. 
>Vhatc%-er the personal convictions of j-our officers^ j-ou may be assured that we want to put your vlcwi into practice. It was our feeling that this-class fund %*-as quite different from Ahunni dues^ Foundation contributions, or what-have-you, all of which were more or Jess official Alumni or Uni­versity fiscal drives. 
Your officers have tliought that we should publish names and amounts. If you feci it un­fair or imprudent, then we will be happy to abide by your decision. So, please drop us a. card stating _your feeling on the matter. You don't have to sign it if you prefer to remain anonymous. BUT please let us have your opinion. We are-YOUR officers—this is YOUR 25th Reunion wc arc planning—we would like lo follow YOUR wishes-in the matter. 
In our November-December column wc reportccT that, as of July 1956, 104 men had contributed $498.00. This represents a little more than onc­fiftii of the living members of the class. By the-end of the year, due largely to the Van Huisseling' midwest campaign, the tally stood at 130 men irt the pot for a total of $867.00. 
fVs you can sec, the number of contributors jumped only 26 in six montlis, but the fiscal picture was bettered by $369.00, an increase of almost 759e. Of course much of this is attributable to men sending in eight dollar checks to clear themselves for the five-year period. 
Van's midwest campaign brought In $298.00. Incidcntally, two of Van's men have contributed $15.00. Since January I, 1957; two otlicrs of the midwest crowd sent in a $10 contribution. This raises tlie total take as of this writing to $887.00. 
It would appear that 1957 is tlie year of deci­sion! Can wc keep the Class Fund rolling? This depends upon each man in the class. It also de­pends heavily upon the four Vice-Presidents and their individual campaigns ;n their areas. Ed Van Huisscling has really set the pace for everyone, in your 1957 clicck to Dan Youngcrman as soon 
You men out in the midwest—how about sending as you receive this Alumnus? If you feel that you want to make it $10 ir.stead of the annual $2, that will relieve you of further canvassing. And for you $2 contributors, why not join, your friends who-have added their eight to tlieir original check? 
Dan Youngerman's address is 1316 East'Cedar Street, South Bend 17, Indiana. 
And now to the three other Veeps! Camille-Gravcl in the South; Phil Purcell in the West and Andy Maffei in the East. Are you men ready to catcli the Van Huisscling spark? Wc understand that you arc, and that with the passing of the old year ^-ou are about to move into your territories. Good luck! 
If $867.00 could be raised in one year, we should be able to make it $2,000.00 by the end of 1957. 
But remember gang, the 25th Reunion campaign will not be a complete success unless it represents all of us. As wonderful as it may be to receive contributions of more than the $2 a year for five years from a number of men, it is the standard contribution from everyone which makes us out­standing. AND WE WANT TO CONTINUE TO BE OUTSTANDKvG, DO.VT WE? 
We u-ant to list the names of all contributors to date, but before we do that let us tell you how they fall into contributing groups. $1.00—1; $2.00— 55; $4.00—3; $5.00-4; $8.00-4; $10.00—57; $15.00— 2; $20.00—1; $25.00—2; and $30.00-1. 
As you can see, the ten dollar men lead the race with the two dollar men just behind. 
Despite our word that we would not publish names and amounts, we think that several of the men deserve a special commendation. JIM JEN­NINGS, who was down for $10.00 oripnally, handed Dan Youngcrman four tickets for a home game last Fall with the understanding that if they were sold the proceeds were to go toward his class contribution. His $30.00 tolly speaks for itself. 
Also, as a matter of recognition, we list PHIL ARNHEITER and Andy Maffei for their $25.00 eacli; Ed Van Huisscling for his $20.00 and TONY CROWLEY and FRANK M-ATAVOSKY for thor $15.00 cliecks. 
Now here is the complete list, as of January I, 1957: 
BOB KNAPP.MAN, GEORGE BARBER, BILL BARLOW, JOE BEACH, PAUL BRUMBY, ART CAREY, JIM CARRICO, JIM CRONIN, "J. C " DUDLEY. JACK DUFFEY, NEIL FARRELL, BILL FARRELL. LOU FAUTSCH, PAUL FER­GUS, TOM (AV.) FLYNN, VINCE GORMAN, TOM GRAVES, BILL HEARN. JOHN HELMER, DAN HENRY, JOHN HIGGINS, FRANK HOCH-
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 51 
Educators attending a conference sponsored by the Air Materiel Command at Wright-Patterson Air Base, Dayton, O., included left to right: WaUcr L. Shilts, '22, Milton I^ Wilcox, '56, Dr. Edward W. Jcrgcr and Hugh P. Ackcrt, all of Notre Dame's College of Engineering. 
REITER, DICK HYDE, DON JACOB!, and WADE KELLEHER. 
Also, TED KLOSINSKI, GORDON KRAUSS, JOHN LXSG, ED LEONARD, BERT LISS, WALT AUTUS, JOHN MORLEY, BILL MOSS, BILL MURRfVY, BILL McCR^VLEY, PAUL NOCKELS, BILL OTTE, JOHN PORCORO, TOM PROC­TOR, PAT QUIGLEY, STANDLEY ROSEN­STEIN, BILL RYi\N, THEO. SANT.\NIELLO, AHKE SANTULLI, BILL SCHRODER, JIM SCOTT and JOHN SHANER. 
Also, JIM SHEILS, BOB SIMMONS, WES STREHL, CLAUDE TOUREK, WALT T^'LUT­KI, SPENCER WALTON, CHARLIE WILLLVM­SEN, TOM YOUNG, DAN YOUNGER.\L\N, CHESTER CHANDLER, JACK GERRITS, a\R L LINK, KARL FULNECKI, TOM GALLAGHER, TOM THOMPSON, FRANK \^E , JIM COL­LERAN, JOHN FITZPATRICK, NAT LERMAN, ED SMITH and JOHN ALLEN. 
Additional names arc: JOE ARGUS, BILL BER­NARD, BILL BERNBROCK, JOHN BERRY, JOHN BREEN, BILL BURKE, BILL BURK­HARDT, ART CONRAD, Dv\N CUNHA, GEORGE DEMETRIO, .MORT DOUTIL\T, PAT FISHER, NORM FREDERICKS, BILL GORGEN, aVMILLE GR^WEL, ELMER GURY, ARNOLD H.\CKENBURCH, JIM ILVMILTON, FRANK HOLL.\HAN, JIM HOWARD, and JOHN K^WA­XAUGH. 
Also, BILL KENNEDY, PHIL KIRLEY, JOHN KREBSER, TOM LaLONDE, AL L.\\\TON, BOB LEE, JIM MacDEVITT, BOB MAHER, CHARLIE MONTGOMERY, BOB MORRISSEY, JOHN Mc-ARDLE, AL McCLVRTHY, MAT RONZONE, FR.\NK McGUIRE, BERNIE O'BRIEN, GENE O'BRIEN, W.VLT O'BRIEN, TOM OWEN, BOB PENDERGAST, GENE O'REILLY, BILL PFEIL, and JIM PICK. 
Otlicr contribntors arc: PHIL PURCELL, AL RxWARINO, MAT SAGARTZ, ROCCO SCHI­RAI-LI, ROY SCHOLZ, KURT SLMON, JOHN SL.\TrERY, LARRY SMITH, PAUL THOLE, AL VITTER, JOE WISCHNIA, GENE WITCHGER, ED ZIMMERS, TONY CROWLEY, FR.\NK MATAVOSKY. ED V/VN HUISSELING, PHIL ARNHEITER, ANDY MAFFEI and JIM JEN­KINGS. 
And add for the first two in '57—ORL/\ND0 YATES and JIM SULLIV^VN. 
Well, there you have them men. If your name is not among those listed, how about getting on 

52 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar.y 1957 
the beam? We know this may sound like a lot of com to some of you—but we are Noire Dome men and we do have a class identification. ' Our 25l!i Reunion is coming up in '60. We'll never have anotlicr, and some of us w^U not make the 25th. 
Don't you think we owe it to ourselves to be 100% on the contributors' list so that the *35 class can continue lo keep its place in the sun? We Avere leaders on campus and we have sIio%vn our leadership In University afi"airs and Reunions since We got out. Let's not slip as our BIG ONE conies up. Your class ofTiccrs are striving to make I960 a banner year for >-ou. Won't •v'ou help them? 
How was YOUR MONEY spent? Well, here is Dan's financial statement as of January- 1, 1957: Cash on hand, January- I, 1956 ___„J§113.G8 Receipts (contrii)utioRs to the Reunion Fund) 867.00 
Total Receipts. December 31 1956 , _$980.68 Expenditures, 1956— Printing (letterheads, envelopes, etc.) $137.00 Treasurer's supplies . 13.02 Postage and government cards 53.93 Masses to Rev. Nlncent Thilnian 
CS.C. . 25.00 Total Disbursements $228.95 Balance on Iiand,'Jaauar>* 1, 1957 $751.73 
Just lo bring yim right up lo dale, in 1957 there lias already be n §20 added lo receipts (as we previously told vou) and $5.00 dislmrsed for another .Mass. 
Wc arc not happy lo report two additional deaths since our last "talk" with vou. WALT LAYDEN's father died ncemly and P.AUL FER­GUS' father passed away <m January- 6. To both men and their families we express the sincere con­diilences of the class. 
And that brings us to a few new addresses. Here they are: BEIUCIE 0'BRIE.V, 7149 S. Euclid Avenue, Chi­cago 49, Illinois. CHARLIE BOLGER, 1906 West 80ih Street, Chicago 20, Illinois. JOHN aXRBERRY, 4832 Oakwood Avenue, Los Angeles 4, California. JOHN H.-\LLBERG, 400 Caialpa, Ro\-al Oak, Michigan. JOHN LOG.VN, 1310 W. Lexington Avenue, Fort Wavnc, Indiana. BILL (JLM) McCRALEY, 1730 Belmont, Souiii Bend, Indiana. 
CHARLIE McNICHOL.\S, 5034 Washington Boulevard, Chicago 44, Illinois. JLM .MacDONALD, Danville State Hospital, Danville, PcnnsvK-ania. 
JIM .MAROHN, c/o James B. Moore, Director of Public Relations, Fairchild Camera and Instru­ment Corp., Kobbiiis Lane, Sv-ossct, L. I., N. Y. 
JOHN RYAN, 5807 Gelbert Avenue, Cleveland 
29. Oliio. VIC METTLER, 18035 Burnham Avenue, Lans­ing. Illinois. 
Has anyone heard from JOHN SCiVNI^AN (last reported In Lorain, Ohio), JOHN DOYLE, or PAUL HART? We'd Hkc to know as their mail returns marked "unclaimed." 
That's it. gang! Uow about everyone gelling hot in '57? Let's have the news so we can keep this column full. And \\-arm up those check books for contributions to the 25th Reunion Fimd. Send them to Dan Youngerman. 
If anyone hits Baltimore, give us a call at <»ur new home phone number—V.AIley 5-5515. Tlie olfice is still SAratoga 7-3400. 
193 6 ^o^«='*^ p- ^""^^ 
Lohund Institute Notre Dame, Indiana 
Tlic above "paragraph" contains all the news received by your correspondent from class mem­bers since our last column. At tliis rate we'll never regain all the space the .Alumnus owes us since 1936. Where, oh where are all those enthusiastic '36crs who said last June that they would keep us informed of their acti\-ities and supply news of interest to our class? 
John Cackley has given us a few notes which he received in the Alumni Ofiice from miscellaneous sources. If it weren't for him, the first **para­graph" \s'ouId he it for this time. 
Our president, JIM SHERRY, has been appointed Assistant General Production Manager of Buick. Congratulations, Jim, but watcli vour ulcers! FxVTHER ROBERT McKEE, CS.C , has been appointed Religious Superior of the Priest's Society of Dacca Diocese in India. Father was ordained in 1940 and chose the missions for his work. He was in Manila on Pearl Harhor Day and he and other Holy Cross missionaries spent ihe next three and one-half y^ars on Luzon as prisoners of the Japanese. 
EARL FRvVREY has been named .-Vssistant Man­ager of tlic Torrington Companies bearing sales division in South Bend. He has been with Tor­rington since we graduated. JOE O'NEILL and the Midland Drilling Company have opened new ofiici"s at 410 West Ohio Avenue, Midland. Texas. Joe was a principal speaker at the N.D. 1956 Ciric Testimonial Football Banquet held on campus. 
Our treasury is $263.46 as of 10 Januar\- 1957. Well, at least we're solvent, if newsless. Happy Xe^v Year and may your %»'riter's cramps respond to the therapy of shame. 
1 O^ T Paul Foley, Vice-President 
AIcCann-Erickson, Inc. 
3546 Penobscot BIdg. 
Detroit 26, Alichigan 
iVrmcd with the oldest set of notes since tlie Gutenberg Bible and a bad conscience brought on by several blank columns, we resume approximately where '^ve left off. 

Let's start with this chiller: Now that it's 1957 facts. We simply set down, as cleanly as our type­address at the dedication last fall of a new cfaapcl 
wc arc jiist a short spring au'ay from our 20th reunion. Twenty years! (By the way, have you tried a short sprint lately?) 
Before dipping into the harnacled bale of ques­tionnaires which are now about as up to date as the "Varsity Drag," it might be safer to toucli on a few things we know fur sure. 
On a recent brief slop in New York we saw BILL McNALLY for ihc first time since the Senior Ball. Bill is now in residence in the New York 
A.C. doing much business traveling in the Midwest. Bill operates his own fund-raising business and looks like the Silver Fox of Wall Street. 
DICK SCfWXELL, we can tell you from per­sonal knowledge, is setting a ver>' rapid pace in his new spot with McCann-Erickson in New York. He's an operative on the CIir\-sler account. Yes, Buster, twenty years! 
Our c-\-roommate, BOB GROGAN, broke into the public prints in late December when he was elected Vice-President in cliarge of supply and distribution for tlie Clark Oil and Refining Corp. 
Along last May another of our star pupils re­ceived an important honor. Dr. CHARLES A. HUFXAGEL was elected to membership in the American Surgical ^Association. Membership in the Association is limited to 250. Dr. Hufnagel is now tcacliing experimental surger>- at Georgetown and has become famous throughout the medical world for cardio\*ascul3r research, especially for the inser­tion of the first plastic heart \'alve in a human being. 
Just so We will all realize that some of this sterling '37 aliility is being px'^sed along, we proudly report that one of two scholarships awarded this year to Fairfield College Prep went to a young fellow named Chris Simms Wallach whose father is JOHN M. WALLACH. 
Yes, Son, twenty years! 
Somewhere along in the summer wc heard from a guy who has summer with him wherever he goes, one of our most faithful correspondents, FATHER JOE ENGLISH. His address at that time %vent something like this: Parroquia "La Asuncion," Padres de Maryknoll, Casilla 166, Taicahuana, Chile. Why not drop him a line? 
From here on we take no responsibility for the 
CLASS OF 1937—Co-chairmen Jerry Claeys 
writing will permit, a nosegay of nuggets con­tained on a sheaf of yellowing foolscap sent out almost three years ago by ZEKE C;\CKLEY and dutifully filled in by some of our mure literate members. 
Just because it's near the top we'll start with a publicity blurb publbhed in the New Orleans "Item" in October ,1955. It is almost as sear with age as the sheets announcing that Fall of Richmond, but baiely visible is a half-column cut of JOHN RILEY, rapturously described as the owner of Riley Drilling Service- Sensing oil, we read on only to discover that Riley is cleam'ng Up pumping water. Don't ask us how, it's some­thing tliey taught in the Engineering Building. Ap­parently John is hitting real liea\y in this league, however, because the "Item" concluded its piece thusly: "His Company has done well cleaning jobs for New Orleans chemical companies and bre^v­cries, both hea\y users of water. Riley can be reached at CE11992." Who can quibble with that kind of reporting? 
We're genuinely sorr\- we did not report this yarn a year ago but you know how things are. Wc had a very charming set of clippings from the Tulsa "Daily World" with a fine feature piece on the Christmas-timc activities of the ROBERT SIEGFRIED family. It's probably old stufT to those of you in the cactus and petroleum belt, but for the rest let it be known that ever>' year Bob, his wife and children have been taking a week out of their normal lives just before Christmas to be­come Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus and Family. (Yes, Virginia, Santa Claus.) 
During the holiday season tlic Siegfrieds appear at a long list of Tulsa fraternal and charitable events and have become known as the town's Santa Claus family. Just to make it official, they had a baby girl on Christmas Day in 1955. 
That brings us up to dale on Christmas. 

Because we've been on the bench awhile, maybe wc belter let this suffice as a warm-up and quit right here. 
Remember, friends, twenty years! 
Let's make the reunion! 
From the Alumni Office: 

Rev. ED.MUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C, executive vice-president of Notre Dame, gave the principal at the UnivTrsity of South Carolina. 
TONY 0*BOYLE is currently serving as Wee-con­sul in Manilla. Ton>-'s address is the .-Vmcrican Em­bassy, APO 928, in care of Postmaster, San Fran­cisco, Calif. 
JACK GILLESPIE is with tlic Socony Mobil Oil Company as public relations adviser to their Cen­tral Marketing Region, a territory- which covers 16 states. Jack started his public relations career in 1946 after six-and-a-half years of newspaper work on New Jersey doilies and weeklies and two-and-a­half years as editor of the post paper • at an Air Transport Command Base in Cairo, Egypt. In tlic public relations field, he has been associated witli Carl Byoir and ^Associates, New York City; Merck and Company, Inc., Railway, N. J.; and uith I\y Lee and T. J. Ross as secretary of the U. S. Cuban Sugar Council in Nc%v York City. He joined Socony in March, 1952. Jack has seen BUCKY JORDx\N who is with the national adver­tising department of the Chicago "Tribune". He has also run into H.\NK RUEN in Detroit who is with a firm wluclt sells f»at hangers, and met LOUIS FEHLIG on a main street in St. Louis. Lou is associated wixh his brothers in a faintly firm whicli manufactures fibre containers. Jack and his wife are the parents of three sons and reside at 4130 Clausen Avenue, Western Springs, III. 
ED REARDON is manager of the Inland and Ocean Marine Department of Thomas McGec and Sons, Kansas City insurance firm. Ed joined the firm in 1937 and has been with them since that lime except for tlic tlirec years he served with the jVrmy in World War II. He and his w-ife Shirley are the parents of two boys and two girls. 
T. ROBERT DUCEY ^vas recently appointed manager of supplies and apparatus sales for south­east Wisconsin for the General Electric Supply Company. He and his wife are the parents of six cliildren and reside at 19(KJ North Hi-Mount, Milwaukee, Wis. 
WILFRED B. KIRK has recently received a distinguished award. He was named a Kni^ t of Malta and the ceremony look place in New York CSty at St. Patrick's Cathedral with Cardinal Spell-man presiding. WilPs address is 6238 W^oodland Drive, Dallas 25, Texas. He is employed in that cit>' as a bank axccutive. 
 and Harry Kochler p'an activities with other South Bend committeemen for the 20th 
reunion on June 7, 8 and 9. Left to right: John Cacklcy; Claeys; Jerry Davey; Father Joyce, executive vice-president of the University; Karl King; Father Lochner, C.S.C., director of student aid at Notre Dame; and Kochler. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar., 1957 53: 
S. S. FRIEDMAN, Baytown, Texas, who was a member of the 1937 class and graduated in '39 with a law degree, is married and tlie father of a daugh­ter and a son. He owns and operates his o\*'n business and hopes that within 8 or 10 years his son will attend Notre Dame. 
JOHN M. POWERS, with co-workers at Humble Oil and Refining Company's Ba>-town, Texas, re­fincr>- has just been granted a U. S. patent dealing with the separation of a Iiydrocarbon called durene from hca\y naptha. It is conjectured tliat tlic pro­duction of durene may lead to some new synthetic fiber or plastic as yet undiscovered. Jack, a sec­tion head witli Humble in the Researcli and De­\-cIopment Division, is currently on a special assign­ment, working in New York. He will be in the East a year and \viH\ Mrs. Po^vers and their llirce cliildren is residing at 37 OakIc>- Ave., Siunmit, 
N.J. 
1938 Charles M. Callahan *'^^ Sports Publicity Dcpt. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
JOE KUHARICH. head coacli of tlic Washing­ton Redskins, professional football team, wns hon­ored by the Notre Dame Club of Washington at a smoker held at the Touchdown Club in October. Joe was also tlie subject of a feature article in the Sunday magazine section of the Washington **Siar." 
See photo in this issue featuring tlic party given in honor of Coach JOHN MURPHY—with CHUCK SWEENEY as host and other '38 men in area attending. 
THOXLVS J. RADIGAN, prominent Gary, Ind., businessman, recently resigned as secretary- of the Radigan Brothers Furniture Company and has purcliased a furniture store in Orlando, Florida. Tom and his wife and five cliildren will reside in 
•\Vintcr Park, a North Orlando suburb. He has been secretary of the Garv* firm. On two difTcrent occasions Republican parly leaders sought to draft Tom for mayor but he declined to seek public office. 
1939 James N. Motschall 
''^ ' Singer-Motschall Corp. 10090 W. Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
It was a pleasant surprise to hear from so many of my classmates since sending out our question­naire and I sinccrrJy hope to hear from more as time goes on. I will try to do the same splendid job BILL OTOOLE did and I hope ^-ou arc feel­ing fine once again Bill. Here are the letters and information in the order in wliicli I received them. 
JOHN J. \VIN"rERMEYER writes from Kitcli­encr, Ontario, that he is a Banister and Solicitor and has a family consisting of Judith 12, Nfar>' 10, Jamie 8, John 5, Grctclien 3, Sarah 2. 
E. F. STACK is the sales engineer and the Chi­cago District Manager of >facDennid Western, Inc., lias a daughter Arline 13, and son Edward 15. He A\-ou!d like to hear from the Chemical Engineers of '38 and *39. 
STEWART J. ROCHE is an attorney and Presi­dent of the Oceana County Savings Bank, has a familv of Kathy 6 and Becfc\- Ann 9. He would like to hear from ROBERT LINSEY, FR^VNK LANIGAN, DAVE GELBER and ROBERT BENA­VIDES. 
EDWARD J. FAN'NING is a CIie\roIet Dealer in Aurora, Illinois, with a family of three, Ed 13, Alice 9, Susan 4. Ed, haw about hearing about 
•>-our outside actintics? 
JOHN P. SULLWAN is practidng law in St. Louis, Missouri. His family is Lon 12, Donna 9, Dave 9, Craig 4. He would like to hear from GEORGE PRENTICE, GEORGE REEVES, a\R L ROUSCH, FR\NK FITCH to mention just a fe%v —also he states: will you please, DICIC BENE­DICT, return tlie $5.00 you owe him and 5G.30 interest for tiic past 10 years. He saw ED BEI­NOR, who is a prosperous super-market operator in Kankakee. BILL COSTIGAN lives near John in St. Louis and sells insurance for Lincoln Life. Ho tells me his good friend, JACK GRIFFIN, is active in tlic local N.D. club, has four cliildren and is an officer in tlic Home Loan Co. It was a fine letter you wrote J.\CK. I apprechite all tlie information and am proud you slUl are so Io>-al and have that feding io%\-ards our old sdiool, Notre Dame. I share those feelings. 
RICHARD V. McKAY JR. is a Phy-sidan in Dubuque, Im\-a; he has a fine family, Katlicrinc 6, Richard HI 3, Elizabeth 1. 
AUURICE N. FRANK is a Ja^^yer in general 

54 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1937 
JOHN J. BORKOWSKI, '44 
Jolin J. Borkowski has been named 
Trustee of a $5,000,000 Ohio Commu­
nity Hospital to be built by five parti­
cipating communities in suburban 
Cleveland area, Pardcipating are, 
Parma, Brooklyn, Parma Heights, 
North Royalton and Brooklyn Heights. 
He \vzis also elected chairman of a 
10 member advisory committee study­
ing and formulating an ordinance and 
the articles of incorporation prior to 
their being adopted by die participating 
communities. 
John was recently cited in the Cleve­land News for a series of articles point­ing out tlie dangers confronting chil­dren who ride school busses. In June the State Board of Education called him to Columbus to hear first hand what he had learned. As a result funds ^vere made available to all school systems in the state for modem ve­liicles in which die driver has a clear \de\v of his front wheels. 
He has been appointed to and serves on the executive board of Cleveland's Mayor Anthony Celebrezze's Metro­politan Safety Education Committee. This committee is the first of its kind in die State of Oliio to study the Cuya­hoga County safety problems. 
John served two and a half years in the Marine Corps and eight years as an editor-writer on a Michigan ne\vs­paper. He is a member of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. He and hb wife, Virginia, have two children, John II and Nannette. 
practice. He 1$ the proud father of five fine boys, Mar%Tn James 17, Robert Lewis 15, William Rich­ard 12, David ;\rthur 8 and Bradford Alan 3. 
EDWARD J. aVRROLL of Bedford, Pa., is the assistant sales manager of tlic ^tining Tool Div. of Konnametal, Inc. He has quite a family in KeWn 6, Ricky and Becky 5, Mary Sue 3, Tommy 2 and John Robert 1. Sorr>- Ed, I don't know JOHN 
C. STvVRKIE's address, but I am sure after reading this he will write >*ou. (Ed. Note: As of Oct. 1, I95G, Alumni Oflice record lists John at 49 Mari­posa Way, Walnut Creek, Calif. JC). Also, Ed wants to Iiear from ED SIMONICH. 
AL NIGRO is a Doctor specializing in surgery. His family consists of Jay 13, Lee II, Lone 8 and Gail 4. Al has seen BOB LAMB in K.C. and ED QUIMBY in N.Y. If FR/\NK HABIG or TOM.MY SHEEHAN see this, write AI. 
REV. JAMES V. LOWERY, C.S.C, is the Re­ligious Counselor for the 380 students at StoneJiill -, College in Nortli Easton, Massacliusetts, as well as Alumni Moderator. His family consists of 290 bovs and 90 girls—co-ed at Stonchill. Fatlier James informs me tliat FATHER HESBURGH really belongs to the class of '39, and wo sure are happy to have him as one of our members. (Ed. Note: Tlie Class of *38 will probably want to put on the gloves with you gu>-s as tliey, too, "claim" Fr. Hcsburgh. JC). I hope TOU will see some­thing of note in tliis edition of tlie Alumnus Maga­zine for our class of '39. Thanks for the brocliure vou sent me. WIl >-ou please remembta: me to FATHER BOLAND .. . he %s^ Prefect of Dis­cipline during my time at Notre Dame. 
THOMAS BARRETT of Statcn Island in New-York, has a family of Bariiara 4, Tom S. 2J4 and Cecelia 7 months. Tom recently returned from Chile, Soutli xVmerica, where he worked for 2'/* years. Now he is a Civil Engineer, building docks for the Tidewater Associated Oil Co. at Delaware Citv. Tom would like to hear from all members of the BSCE '39. 
N. J. MEx\GHER JR. Is in banking and live­stock in Vernal, Utah. I am not quite sure of tliis. but, I think his family fx>nsists of three children. Dale, .Ann and Dacier. (Am I correct N.J.?) 
N.J. would like to hear from PETE MARTIN, here in Detroit. LOU PURCELL, class of '37 and AME TUSCANY of Detroit. 
WILLI.\M P. ^L\HONEY JR. is the Prosecuting Attorney in Marieopa County. He ^^•as the former 
N.D. track coach, then a Naval Officer . . . Prose­cutor of Na\y Crime Trials, later assistant Attor­ney General in Arizona and nmv is working hard at his present job. His family f»nsists of William III 9, Gladys 8, Mary 7, Ricliard 3, Eileen 2, Lawrence 2 montlis. 
PHIL R. NORTH of Fort AVorth, Texas, would ­like to hear from TOM BOSSORT. Phil is \ice­
prcsidcnt, in cliargc of general operators of the , Carter Publications, Inc. (newspaper^ and TV). His family consists of KcWn 11, Kerr>-4 and ^^airin 3. 
L.\WRENCE J. PETROSHIUS of Waukcgan, Illinois, is practicing law and tells,mc he is most proud of his family of Larr>' 13, Edward 10 and Susan 4. 
JOSEPH A. JUDGE is a Psychiatric Sodal AVorkcr in Troy, New York. He has three children named Joe Jr. 6, Grace 8, Mary Margaret 10. In his own words concerning his field of endeavT>r, "It is a cliastcntng and self revealing profession in which much of tlie philosophy and training of 1 Notre Dame years stands by one." Keep up the good ^^•o^k Joe. 
ROLAND \L\RTIN, who is General Advertising Maiu^er of tlie Fond du Lac Commonwealth Reporter wwild like to hear from LOUIE OTT­MER of West Bend, AVIsconsin and FRANK PARKS of Rice Lake, Wisconsin. He has two ^ children named Luke 12, and Nicholas 10. 
JAMES N. CHRISTLVNSON is a Fund Raising Executive here in Detroit and would like to hear' from VINCE LFFTLE. 
GEORGE ROBERT aVMPBELL is a Ph>-sidan^ in Clewland Heights, Ohio, who practiced in Mo­naca^_.(not where Grace Kelly resides) Pa. for 10 
.years before mo\ing west to Ohio. He is starting a tlirro year Fellowship in Dermatology in the Cleve­land Clinic Any-one with a rash who wants to go to Cle\x-land, George will take care of FREE (no cJiarge for the plug George). He lias a fam­ily consisting of Robert J. 8, Laura J. 8, Susannc 4, Colleen P. 3, Cathlccn A. 2. 
CH.\RLES M. NORTON is tlie Controller of the Insecticides division of the OHn Mathicson Chemi-" cal Corp.; and assistant to the president of that Corporation. His family consists of one son and three daughters: Charies E. 10, Mildred L. 8, Frances 6 and Mary Claire 4. Charlie ^\'ouId like to licar from Prof. TOM MADDEX, JOHN WIN­TERMEYER, DICK BRO^\'^• and ftXRRY KAISER. 

ROBERT J. GALLAGHER who had lived in Iowa, now lives in Boulder, Colorado and loves it. Wttli liim went his family of Mar>* 15, Maureen 8, Nanc\-6 and Robert J. Jr. 2 months. Bob 
» would liko to hear from R/\Y K^VNE (Chicago), ALFONSO URIBE and WHITNEY GREGORY. EDWARD M. TOBIN is a design engineer at the ; Boeing ^Virplanc Co. in Seattle, Washington. He has a family consisting of Jo Ann 12, Mary K. 9, 
I Micliacl G and Thomas'M. 17 montlis. Ed would 
^ like to hear from all x\ero Engineers of *39 plus 
i BOB RU.MPF and ERNIE KLING. EDWARD J. LONGHI lives in Orange, Conn., where he is President and Treasurer of the Accept­
: ancc Discount Corp. Ed. J. Jr. 16, Leighton R. i 12, David F. 9, make up his nice family. /Vlthough Ed hasn't been back since *39, ho \\'ants to hear ' from cver>'one and an>'onc, but particuIarK*, .MARIO TONELLI. HAROLD A. GOTTSACKER is the \icc-presi­
dcnt of the Gottsacker Insurance Agenc>*. He didn't tell me the names of his cliildren, but he lias four girls and t\TO bo>-s (nice going). Quote our treasurer Harold, "/\s treasurer of our class 
t I would suggest wc start a collection of some kind so that on our 20tli annivcrsar>- wc arc not without funds .. . also it %v'ould be nice for our class to make some kind of gift at that time." I agree with >'ou and I think Class President 
i CH/VRLIE REEDY, you and myself should start the ball rolling soon. 
HAR\'EY G. FOSTER Is an F.B.L agent in Cine Center, San Francisco. Before moving there, he ^^'as in Des Moines, Houston, New York, Los Angeles, Indianapolis, Cincinnati, Boston, Nev%-ark just to mention a few. He has two **Scrgeant Fridavs'* . . . Jolm 14 and Daniel 13. Har\'cy would like to hear from DxWID GELBER and JIM McGOLDRICK. 
EDWARD K. GRIMES is an Aeronautical Engi­neer in Falls Church, Va., where he lives ^ntli his family of Neil Kelly 14 and Sue Ann 5. Ed just saw F. X. "Tim" BRADLEY who works for Pratt & Whitney . . . would like to hear from BOB RU.MPF, BOB REILLY and BOB HUE­THER. Ed is uith the U.S. Air Force in Research 
Group of Notre Danie alumni, all engineers 
& De^'clopmcnt. Thanks for the good wishes—my job will be' made easier if you, Ed, and the rest of the gang continue to send news to me. 
PAUL F. KLUDING is the eastern terminal 5upcr\'isor of the Middle Atlantic Transportation Company and lives in Rockfall, Conn. Hb family consists of five duldrcn, John 13, Paul 10, Judy 8, Katldecn 6, Jimmy 4. Paul ran into JIM TANSEY in Mass., DAVE METSKILL in .Mass., and TO.M HOG*\N in N.Y.C. 
JIM ROCiVP is practicing law in Indianapolis, Indiana, to support his family of Patricia 8, James HI 6, Mar>- D. 3, Richard VA, Joan 4 months. Wc arc all looking for\t*ard to the 20th reunion, Jim, and would appreciate any suggestions you have on this matter. 
HOWARD L. L.\RDIE is the dept. head of the Utilities Carbide & Carbon Chemicals Corp. in Texas City. Ho\*'ard has IWcd there since 1941 and in 1943, Bill, his son %\'as bom in that Great State. Howard likes "big game hunting" found in the Rockies and while at the S.M-U. gxime, saw FATHER CW^VNAUGH. Wc hope you can make it up North by '59. 
JOHN B. CELI^V II of Fresno, California, is a Wine Producer and Grape Grower. Ho has three children, Barbara 10, John L. 9, Peter 4. John \%TniId like to hear from SCOTT SHEEDY and CcVRL FRICKE and inquired about the possibility* of the university furnishing class roster and a state roster including all alumni. 
LOUIS A. RADELET who resides in Merrick, Long Island, is the National director of Program Operations for the National Conference of Chris­tians and Jews. Louis has six splendid children, Johnny 13, Joe 10, Ann 7, Mike 6, Tim 4, David 1. Was glad to hear you were able to get back to the campus so often. Louis vvould like to hear from TOM GILLESPIE and BERNIE FEENEY. 
BERN^UID J. "BARNEY" SULLIVAN is an oH 

and gas lease broker in Tulsa, Oklahoma, where 
he supports his ^^-ife and six children, Kathleen 
10, Dan 9, Tim 8, Anne 6. Eddie 4 and Mary 2. 
Barney would love to hear from DAVE MESKILL, 
JOHN TOOMEY, FR^VNK L.VUCK, CHICK 
RAUSCH, GEORGE VLAIS to name a iew—also 
he states the whole class could v^rite him. Sorr>* I 
wasn't in Detroit when you were here, I happened 
to be in the Army for a "few" years. 
 at Hamilton Standard, division of United 
Aircraft Corporation, pictured in the lobby of the Windsor Locks, Conn, plant. They are, left to right, front row: Henry W. McGann '53, Floyd Bradley '47, Thomas C. Shea '29; top rowj Edward Brewer '45, John P. Fallon *54, Leonard L. Hierath '56, Theodore R. Paulding '52. Other N.D. men in the Hamilton Standard engineering department include Norbert A. Ncffinger '47, Robert E. Sheridan '51, Raymond E. Onofrio '54, Neil E. Butler '53, Thomas West '56, and Richard E. Nault '53. 
CHARLES J. THEISEN is the inventory control manager of the Theisen Clemens Co. He has five children, ^Villiam 16, Charlenc 14, John 10, Patri­cia 7, Timothy 6. Charlie %\'ouId like to hear from JOE SCHULTZ of Gladwin, iadiigan and JACK O'HARA of Dearborn, Michigan. Charlie was a teacher and coach at Salem, New Jersey, from 1939 through 1953, then joined his dad's company which is a terminal for gas and fuel vil for major oil companies in south^vcstem Michigan. 
TOM R. BOSSORT JR. is the Director of Execu­tive Development Program, Professor of Manage­ment Scliool of Business at Indiana University. He has been a member of the faculty for the past ten years. Tom would like to hear from PHIL NORTH and any other alumni that can '\%'rite and has a 3 cent stamp. (Answer to your note: I did not volunteer for this job; I was asked to pitch in and am trying my best to do a good job.) 
WILLLUf J. .McNAMARA, '39 and '40, is an attorney- and life insurance consultant in Chicago. He has three fine children named Patrick J. 14, Marj' Louise 10 and Anne Marie 8. He would like to hear from JACK DEAN and FRANK BRIGHT. 
FRANK A. MASTRI.\NA is a lawyer who would like to hear from all other lawyers of his class. Frank has t^vo children, Ronald 8, Lynne 6. 
FRANK FITCH of Sioux City, IOWTI, owns Fitch & Co., a Tax and Bookkeeping Service. Frank has four fine children, Jean 10, Judy 8, Jim 8, John 2. He \TOuld like to hear from CY KEARNS, PHIL SHERIDAN and JOE HARRING­TON. Yes, Frank, the 15th reunion was mar\-clous and all of us will have to pitch in to make our 20lh the best ever. We will start on this soon. Thanks for your best wishes. 
GEORGE R. MALOY of Clyde, Net*- York, was with our class during '35, *36, *37, so I am sure many of you remember him. George has ti**o sweet daughters, Susanne 8 and Nanc>- 4. 
AUGIE BOSSU is a teacher and coach in Maple Heights, Ohio. He has six children, 4 girl* and 2 bo>-s. His school, Benedictine High, has ivx)n the championship for the past two years in both football and baseball. Good going coach. 
EUGENE F. MILBOURN of Omaha, Nebraska, is the assistant zone manager for American ifotors. His family consists of Sue Gene 13, Ricky 10 and Patrick 8. 
ALFRED O. KIEFER has his ou-n Phannacy in Dade Cit>-, Florida, where he lives wth his faintly of u-ifc and 3 children, Alfred Jr. 10, Joseph 8, Pamela Jean V/., He flew up for the Oklahoma game (tlic first trip back in 15 vcars) and saw his good friend ART VERHOESTRA. Al would like to hear from J. L. (Ice Cream) McI>ONALD, ART WOODS, DAN MURPHY of Ifarion, Ohio. 
FRANK LAUCK of Indianapolis, Indiana, has a family of three, Linda 10, Jay 6, Marianne I. He is trith the Mid-^Vest Advertising Co. Frank uTiuld like to hear from JOHN McMAHAN, FRANK HABIG and CHICK RAUSCH's tvife. Marge. 
RALPH MAZAR of South Bend, is \%ith the Industrial Sales & Research of Swift 5: Co. He would like to hear from BOB SCALLY. 
JAROLD SUNDERLAND of East American Fork, Utah, has three lovely daughters, Pat 15, Sue II and Carol Lee 7. He is running the Purcliasing Dept. at Consolidated \Vestem Steel Corp. Jarold would like to hear from CARL ROUGH, BILL RICKEY, RALPH HA.AS and FRANK FITCH. 
T. P. (Pete) ZACHEK of South Bend is Pub­licity Director & Assistant Advertising and Sales Promotion Manager for South Bend Tackle Co. He has a UCT*- son Peter Scott (II months). He would like to hear from all fishermen—Pete will send you a free catalog. His son was adopted >*"ith the help of Catholic Charities and quote Pete, "Dorothy and I have been 10 feet tall since Peter Scott's arrival." 
BOB HUETHER is an aero engineer of the Northrop Aircraft, Inc. in La Crcscenta, California. He has ttv-o children named Carolj-n 12 and Johnny lYs. Bob still is bragging about his hole-in-one oa a 210-yard 8th hole at Brookside Course—he used a 3 iron. 
JAMES C. AfcARDLE is presdent of the Fort Wayne Lumber Co. of Fort AVaync, Indiana, where he resides with his family of Kathleen 10, Prggy 7, Melinda 6 and Jim Jr. 3. Jim saw TOM KING, ED DISSER and FRANK PITTMAN lately and Wc hope we will see you and ever>"t>nc for our 20th. 
ANDREW J. FELKER is the manager of Oil Equipment Sales for Felker Bros. Mfg. Co. of ^tar5hfield, Wisconsin. He has two children, Susan 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar.j 1957 55 
7 and Barbara 2!/^. Andy informs mc tliat HUGO HILDEBRANDT is running llic family sausage business in Cleveland; MIKE CLOUSE is practicing medicine in Somerset, OIu'o; DICK UMHOEFER Js running his own lumber and oil business in Wis­consin and BERNARD FEENEY is teaclung at LoTOla University. Thanks for tlm information and wc ^i'ant to sec you in a couple years. 
\MLLIAM R. POLYE is a scm*or Physicist of Bcndlx A\-iation Corp. BUI x^-as in the graduate scliool of Plij-sics in '39. He has three cliildren, Janie 12, Ronald 10 and Lawrence 3. 
J. FRED SIMON JR. lives in Waco, Tc\as where he owns the Waco Broom and Mop Factory*. He has fi\-c fine diildrcn: Diane II, Susan 8, Fred III 6, Mark 5 and Michael 3. Fred would like to hear from JOE SULLIVAN of New Bedford, and BERNARD GOOD of Chicr^o. He saw CHARLIE McNAMARA of Tulsa tlie last time he was passing through \\'aco. 
PAUL M. DONOV.AN (the attorney) still lives in New York with his stc cliildrcn Matthew 14, Katie 13, MicJiacl 10. William 7, Mar\' 5 and Paul 1. Paul saw JOE RYAN and TOM KING during their travels in tlie cast. 
\TNCENT DE COURSEY is plant manager of a large dair>' in Kansas Cit>". Vincc, also, has sis diildren: Vincent Jr. 14, Thomas 13, Robert 10, David 8, Stephen 6, John 2. 
HARRY J. SCHROEDER JR. works at t!ie Dr>-dcn Rubber Co. in Fort Madison, Iowa. He has three children: Susan 14, Marj' Ann 11, C>TI-Ihia 9. Harry i^tiuld like to hear from tlie fellow-he loaned his golf clubs to in Apnl 1939 as well as from "Moose" GOTTSACKER and JOHN 
DA\as. 
PAUL TULLY is a publisher (and office boy, he ssys) in Washington, D.C., where he supports his three ciiildren, Don 15, Tom 9, Diane 8 (?). Couldn't read ^"our writing on that last name— hope I am right. Paul saw PAT GOR.MAN, newly elected President of the Executive Ass'n in Wash­ington, D. C. WALT SHORT, newW ejected 
V.P. of Alleghany Airlines and MATT MERKLE, Lt. Col. in tiie Air Force, •who Is now in Frank­fort, Gcnnanv, 
ROBERT J. BIRKENHAUSER, of Nashville, Tenn., is the process superintendent of tlic DuPont Ravon Plant. He adopted Diana 10 and Donald 9 witli tlic help of a fellow N.D. man, TOM ^VALL. 
\\'ILLIAM J. METRAILER is a Chemical Engi­neer with tile E&so Standard Oil Co. in Baton Rouge, La. Bill has a fine family of five, con­sisting of William Jr. 12, Robert 11. Elizabetli Ann 7 and tu-ins, Jan Louise and Ann ^farie. He \TOuld like to hear from JOE HIEGEL and TOM GILLESPIE. 
BROTHER RALPH JA^\'ORSKY, C.S.C., Is the assistant principal and French teacher at Holy Cross High Scliool in Flushing, N. Y. Brother Ralph ... I was stationed in Flushing during the war. Our unit was In the old World Fair build­ings. Nice place to live. 
JAMES C. TANSEY Is the manager of tlie New En^and District of the GUdden Co. Jim lias a splendid family In Atme Christcne 10, Marie Elizafaedi 6. Cecelia 4, Jim Jr. 1. 
L. P. (Pete) MARTIN is die president of his ou-n company, Detroit Fastener Co. I ran Into Pete a fe%v montlis ago, and lie was •\vx>rking hard, feeling fine and looking fonvard to our 20lh re­union. Pete has four fine children: Sally 14, Larry Jr. 12, Paul 9 and Robert 6. 
WILLLAM H. RICKE is the re^"onal sales mana­ger for the Plomb Tool Co. of Los Angeles down south in Atlanta, Ga. Bill has been past president of the local alumni club and today heads tlicir scholarship fund. Bill has three fine bo>'s, Billy 10, Ste\e 4 and Chris VA. 
BURTON McENEARNEY lives in Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.\\''-T. with his family, Patricia 12 and Charles Edu-ard II, 10. Burton hears from FRANK BAUMET and Doctor SAL SG\RLATA. He is the director of tlie Ba>-sliore Enterprises, Inc., which nmv operates tlie first drive-in theatre in the Islands as well as a tire retread company. 
FRANCIS J. MASTROPIETRO Is a restaurateur of tlic Michaels Restaurant in Auburn, N. Y. where he lives with his family of Rosemarv' 17, Marguerite 15 and Maria Christine 2^ . Frank would like to hear from J.\CK MULGERIG and JACK McAULIFFE. 
EDWARD M. BROSCOE is the \-Ice-prinapal of Central High ScIiool in S\Tacu5c. Ed hears from his old roommate, P.AUL KELL, and sees some of our otlier classmates at the local meetings. Will bring tip >-our idea at N.D., my next trip to the 
campus. 

^6 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar., 1957 
BERNARD F. BREHL, JR., '42 
Bernard F. Brehl is the new Mana­ger of Industrial Laminate Sales, in tlie General Electric Company's plant at Coshocton, Ohio. 
After graduating from Notre Dame he joined GE as a Test Engineer on destroyer turbines in Erie, Pennsyl­vania. Successive assignments in test­ing turbines, generators and controls took him to Fort VVa^ne, Syracuse and Schenectady. In November, 1943 he moved to the Plastics Department at Pittsfield, Massachusetts as a process engineer. 
Drafted in May, 1944, Bemie served two years aboard the destroyer escort "Thomas J. Gar)'," as engineering offi­cer and first lieutenant, in both the Atlantic and Pacific theaters. 
In July, 1946, he returned to Pitts­field as a methods and development eng^eer. Early in 1948 he opened a sales office in Cincinnati for the newly-formed Chemical Division of General Electric. On January 1, he joined tlie Coshocton plant as Manager of Inter­company Sales for laminated plastics and insulating materials. The position of Manager of Product Planning and Market Research for these products immediately preceded his present assignment. 
Four brothers followed him to Notre Dame, John '49, Dick '52, Larry, '55 and Bill '56. 
Bemie and his wife, Ellen Mai^ ­ret, have six children, five boys and one £firl. 
FR^VNCIS M. PA\'NE JR. is an atiorney-ai-law 
In Cleveland Heights, Ohio, where he resides with 
his fine family of five clilldrcn, Patricia 8, Michael 
7, Christopher 4, Jane Marie 3, Colleen Marj' 2 and 
number sU due by now. Frank let me know 
whetlier you now have 3-3 or 4-2. I'm betting on 
a boy. Frank was past elected to the State Board 
of Education of Ohio. Good work boy; keep it up. 
LLOYD F. \VORLEY Is tlic president of ^Voricy 
& Harrcll Inc. Oil Well Drilling Contractors of 
Tulsa, Oklalioma. Lloyd has two lovely daughters, 
Carol 12 and Judy 5. Lloyd's company now oper­
ates in seven states and promises, with some of the 
oil money to come back to N.D. for our 20th 
reunion. See you then. 
CHARLES B. H.\YES is the director of engi­neering of the White Cap Co. in Chicago. He has four fine children: Charles S. 14, Danid B. 12, Carol M. 10 and Heather A. 6. Cliarilc is active in the Nortli Chicago Alumni Club where at Its last dance he saw JOE HENNESSEY, JACK DUFFY, P.\UL RICE and BOB DIECKEIALVN. 
J.\CK SCHULZE is an engineer in Dayton, 
Ohio. He is single (don't know what you are 
missing Jack). Jack uould like to hear from 
EDDIE GRIMES and H/\NK ROHL. 
DON E. CLANCY is tlic City Treasurer in 
Green Bay, Wisconsin. Don tells me that his two 
children Don Jr. 9 and Maureen 8, arc arid Green 
Bay Packers fans. He saw and risiled with CHUCK 
SWEENEY, who ofiiciatcs in the Pro League and 
Chuck is just as trim and rugged as when he 
played at N.D. in '37 and *38. 
MARION J. MAURELLO Is an insurance agent in Colorado. He Is most proud of his newly adopted Italian orphan boy, A\'ho comes all the way from Turino, Italy. His son's name Is Gregory Robert 4. It sure is nice to have people like you Marion and your wiSc, who can malcc a Iiome and give Gregor>* sucli an opportunity in tliese great states of ours. X just came back from Europe and Italy and \vc Americans don't realize how wonderful our country really is «mtll >iou see the poverty of many European countries. Good luck to you and God bless >*our nc%v family. 
ROBERT E. BOE\TNG is in the cotton busi­ness In Mcmpliis, Tenn., where he picks enough of that white stuff to support his three fine boys: Ronnie 15, Roger 13 and RIck>* 9. Bob tells me that while going to dental school he met his \vife (a SpanLsh gal from Puerto Rico) who was studpng medicine. They both changed tlicir minds, she to homcmaking and Bob to cotton business. Bob wonXA like to hear fn>m PETE MARTIN, LxVRRY SUTTON and BOB SCHMITZ. 

ROBERT B. PICK lives in West Bend, Wiscon­sin, where he is secretarj' and \%'orks manager for the Pick Mfg. Co. (they make brakes, oil filters and cartridges for cars and trucks). Bob has a fine family of five children, Robert Jr. 16, Susie 15, Carl A., 9, Andy 5 and Jenny Rose 3. The last ­and only member of tlic class of *39 he saw was his cx-roomie, JOE HARRINGTON, of Colon, ^ Panama. (>fy wife and I were In Colon in 1949: Joe, I am really sorry I didn't realize >"0«i lived tlierc.) 
ROBERT REYNOLDS KIERNAN is a represen­tative for Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. out In California, where he and his six splendid children play in the noontime sun and smog. Bob's family consists of Garv- Robert 11, Theresa Aim 8, Nancy Christine 7, Robert R. Jr. 4, Michael Patrick J and Patrick Timothy 1. Bob would like to hear from DAMD HARRIS and JOHN ^\'ESSELS. Bob was in the Marine Corps for 1254 years which ended when \\ounded In Korea in 1950. Hope it 
•wasn't too serious a %\'ound. Do >-ou remember all our discussions and arguments at the dining table? We had lots of ftm, but didn't appreciate It at the time. Good luck to you Bob. 
FRANCIS E. BRIGHT Is a lav^Tcr in Newton, 
N. J., where bis four cliildren bright-en (sorr>­for the pun) his life, they are Patrick 13, Larr\-, 9, Mark 4, Frank Jr. 1. Frank was with the FBI from *41 through *46 working in Seattle, where he met and married his wife. Wiile out on the-" coast he saw JOHN \VILSON who also was in the FBL Frank would like to hear from BILL COS­TELLO and JOHN 0*CON*NOR. 
JACK E. RYAN is tlie Senior Production Engi­neer of the 50 million dollar Aerojet General Corp. . at Sacramento, California. Jack would like to hear from JOHN JAEGER, ED CARROLL, JOHN CLEMENS, JOHN CALLIHAN to mention a few. ' Jack has a ver>' pretty daughter, Jennifer Lee. Happy to hear >-our wife has €»mplctely recovered . from her accident. 
THEODORE P. FRERICKS Is an attomei'-at-law In Marion, Ohio, where he lives \ritli his family of six children: Ted, Tom, Tim, ifary, Anne and 

Peggy. Tlie only classmate he saw lately was TOM ROCHE, passing through on business. 
JOSEPH C. ZUENDEL JR. is an automobile dealer In Dyersnlle, Iowa, where he sells enough Che\-roIct5 and Oldsmobilcs to take good care of his family consisting of Robert 13, Mar>- Suzanne 10, Joseph 4, MidiacI 2. 
- MARK J. MITCHELL JR. is an insurance ' broker in Chicago. Mark has the largest family . in our class, at least to my knowledge. Tliey are; 
•
Kathie 15, Connie 12, Mark III II, Jim 8, Tony 

•
7, Maggie 6, Mar\* 4, Johnny 2 and Anne 5 months. 

•
I cn\-y >-ou, that fine family and the class con­gratulates >t)u. Sorr>* to hear about the death of JIM ROCAP's motlicr . . . our sympatliy to you, our prayers for ^-our mother. 


GEORGE J. NEU.\L\XN is the Mid-west Sales 
• Manager for the Hotel Corporation of /Vmerica 
' and lives in Chicago with his family of George Jr. 12, Lorr>- 11, and Diane 6. While in Wash­ington D.C., George had lunch ^\-ith DICK 0*MELIA and PAT GOR.\L\N. George spends most of his time traveling from Washington, New York, Cleveland, Boston and Cliicago, taking care of hotel matters in tliese cities. WILLLVM D. OTOOLE lives in Rochester, NVv 
. York, wliere he is an account executive for the 
; Hulchings Advertising Company. Bill has one fine 
boy named KeWn. Bill tells me that VIXCE DOLL.\RD has a new son, Vincc Jr.. 5 months old and has seen WALT JOHNSON, DON DUF­FEV, BILL \\'HELEHx\N and LEO SIMPSON in 
• his travx'ls these past few montlis. We arc all ver\" happy that you arc feeling better and recovering nicely from your heart attack. I used to liave an agenc\- of my own and am glad to get back in the manufacturing business, not quite the pressure that you find in the agcncx' business. Be sure to bring along the film, I have a projector and screen. 
JOSEPH H/VRRINGTON is tlie manager of the Pfizer Corporation in Colon, in the Repulilic of Panama, where he lives witli his family consisting of Martin 9, Kevin 7, Patrick 4 and Sheila 4 montlis. Joe would like to hear from JOHN WIN­TERMEYER and anyone passing through Panama. His number is Colon—1571. Joe is also President of the American Society of Panama, the Cristobal Colon Rotar>- Club, Free Zone Forum and Vice-President of the Colon Chamber of Commerce. Good going boy and lots more luck to you. 
Five Indiana members of the Young Presidents' 
D. T. (DAVE) .MESKILL is aMarkelirtg Mana­ger for the General Electric Co; Dave 'ha^^ five fine children named Kathleen '11 , Timothy- 9, Susan 7, Patricia 5 and Maureen 1J4- He was on the cxunpus to see tlic Michigan State game where he saw and visited with ED DISSER, TOM MA­HER, SPIKE SEIGAL and BILL DONNELLY. Dave, I was at tlie same game and all afternoon there were Michigan State men breatliing do%vn my neck. Unfortunately, I still have received only 7 or 8 photos from the I5th reunion and they wouldn't make much of a brocliurc . . . maybe I should still put out a "single" sheet on these . . . what do ^-ou tliink? 
Now that all the reports are in, for those who arc interested, JIM MOTSCH.ALL is executive vice-president of tlie Singcr-Motschall Litliographing Company. I have three fine cliildrcn named Pam 13, Jimmy 7 and Jon 3. This past year my wife, Pat, and I took a trip to Europe where we were fortunate enough to have a pri\-ate audience witli the Pope. Had a picture taken, so I will bring it to the reunion. I have been past president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, the year our team came to town and beat U. of D. CHARLIE RODGERS, who was witJi us in '35 and '36 is one of my best friends and wc have seen E.\RL BROWN who ^^•as witli the Detroit Lions and is now a salesman here in the city. BILL CARROLL is practicing law and doing vcr>' well. I see GER­ALD NAUM/\N around town where he is a top sailor at the D.Y.C. and works for a paper com­pany. TOMMY SHEEH.-VN is a manufacturing agent selling all the big auto companies and is the best golfer in our class, ^\NDY WILSON is in publicity at the American Motors and at last count, had 4 or 5 children. DICK G.ARxVB came in to see me, looking fine, selling Fords. JIM SNYDER is the head of the purchasing at Pack­ard. It is difficult for me to list the ones I vx»uld like to hear from, because I want to hear from all of ^•ou, but the following were the fellows closest to me at school . . . JIM CLIFFORD, D.\N CURLEY, ART D.WIS, JOE DUNN, LOU ESSEY, PETE PLUGE, JOHN FOCKE, DAVE HARRIS, JOE MCDONALD, TOMMY MCIN­T\'RE, TOM MAHER. JOHN MORTLMER, a\R L NAGEL, BILL PREKOWITZ, PAUL RICE, WALT SHORT, JOHN WESSELS and TO.M ZIEGLER just to mention a few. 
 Organization presented a program stressing 
the importance of indi\'idual initiative and enterprise in the business world before students of Notre Dame's College of Conmierce. John F. Dille, Jr., (seated), president and publisher of the Elkhart Truth, ser\ed as moderator of the program during which the panelists outlined the development of their own careers and discussed the opportunities for young men in relatively small business enterprises. Panelists included (standing left to right) Lawrence G. Haggcrty, Famsworth Electronics Co., Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Milton Keiner, Marion Machine, Foundrj- and Supply Co., Marion, Ind.; Kenny Widmeycr, Hoosier Home Improve­ment Co., Elwood, Ind.; and John G. Best, Chicago Telephone Supply Co., Elkhart, Ind. The YPO is composed of more than 1,000 members throughout the country who became presidents of their companies by the age of thirty-nine. 
James G. Brown 

1940 
625 Madison Avenue 
jVew York, New York 

Before reverting to our alphabetical roll call we have a few notes that have come in since last issue. Have a Cliristmas card from CHUB GILLIL-AND with a picture of himself and wife cutting their uxdding cake. Congratulations to Don and Mrs. 
G. He must be one of the last to fall by the wa>-side and %rith the reports of families in the *40 group you two \rill have a lot of ground to make up. Don mentions that a group of the St. Ed's 
A.C. attended the Oklalioma game last fall: JERRY S.AEGERT, TO.M FL.\D, BOB LAMBERT, ISH JVNDRIACHI and their respective wives. Also saw JOE THESING at the game. Don was married in South Bend by FATHER TOM BRENNAN. Real ND wedding. He makes mention of the fine idea of the '40 fund and u'ondcrs how come his check has not been cashed. 
Committeemen please take note. Have a detailed summary* on RUSS JANDOLI, Dr. Russ that Js. Received his doctorate last October from New York University. Russ has been through many phases of journalism including teaching Joumalbm at St. Bon­avcnture, newspaper reporting for the Puerto Rieo "Journal," ""nmc" Magazine, International News. Was correspondent for "Stars & Strip«" at Admiral Nimitz's headquarters in WW II and is now chair­man of the Dept. of Journalism at St. Bonnie's. Nice to hear about another member of '40 doing so Well. 
Have a note here from BOB CON'NELLY asking for a change of address. Bob is now with Thomp­son Products in Cleveland, Ohio. Real good com­pany. I've been ^v•atching the stock for the past few years and should have bought some. I had a good bit of conversation with Bob at the Alumni meeting and as pre\*iousIy noted I thought he was an attorney. I guess I had too much refreshment that evening. Bob and wUc have seven (7) €:hil­dren: 4 girls and 3 boys. Speaking about the family picture, and this is no pun, I have requested that you send me a photo. Certainly everyone would appreciate seeing a picture of a fine family group as the Connellys. So I appeal once again for a little cooperation from the women. It will help to fill out my column and will be appre­ciated by all. Especially you fellou-s who were unable to make the reunion. We u'ould all like to sec you if only in print. This concludes the current batcli of info that was sent in. Only a page and a half . . . double space. Hmvcver, with the holidays I guess we ^ve^e all pressed for time. I'm expecting bigger things during these long win­ter nights. 
Bumped into a ph>'5ici3n recently who had been in Med school \rith one of the Pencils or Fensels. He could not remember the first name and since both ^vere in Science ive'll have to wait for further clarification. JACK FINNERAN attended the re­union. Had a little chat %Wth him and he was asking for BALDY SEXTON. I must apologize for not baring too much info on some of the fellows. If I had known about this job I would have asked a good many more questions. WALT FLEMING was there bouncing around as usual and is Still down Texas ivay. JOHN FLYNN is a phj-sician up in Connecticut. 
TOM FORD was not at the reunion. I saw him a few years ago and I think he attended Har­\-ard Law School and is now ^vith one of the la\v firms down town. BOB FROST *vas very much in eridcnce. Bob is a physician and has a lab in the South Bend area and is permanently located in the South Bend area. Bob is originally from Long Island. BOB GRISJ\N*TI attended and if I am not mUtakcn is an attorney in the Cleveland area. JACK H^VCKETT was tliere, in fact I had Friday m'ght dinner with Jack and BUD KOTTE. The\- are both attorneys. Jack in the Toledo area and Bud is now permanently located in Miami, Florida. Recently >iou may have noticed that Bud's father was honored by the ND club of Miami. He is a member of the '06 class which had its aOth reunion. 
BILL ILVNNAN is an attorney here in N. Y. in fact is a partner in his firm. I see him occa­sionally. Bill has sLx or seven children. ED HART was at the reunion. Eddie is an engineer for 
R.C.A. and is now located over in Jersey some place. Played a little golf ^rith him and TONY CELLA. Ed has a family and at last report w:i5 bleeding badly over the world series debacle and the recent plight of the Rangers. JOE HART was at dinner and kept Hackctt, Kotte and myself in 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 57 
stitches recouting old stories about DOC CUR­
RAN. PAUL HELMUTH was not at the reunion 
and I W3S sorry to miss him. I saw Paul several 
times w^ien he %v'3s up at Har^'ard Law Scliool. 
GERRY HOGAN, an old Brooklyn boy, now 

has a book store and gift shop out in one of the 
smaller Illinois to^^'ns. He Is in partnership with 
another XD man and likes living out there vcr>' 
mudi. Gerry has two or tlircc children. BILL 
HOGAX . . , I haven't seen in a few years but 
used to bump into occasionally. Bill is an attorney 
and was with an insurance company at tlie time. 
TOM HOSTY was down Saturday afternoon and 
has put on iomc wdgiit since school. Tom, I 
think, is in the securities business and operates 
in the Chicago (xiunicrport of Uie stock cxcliangc. 
Talked to JIM HUFXAGEL and PHIL SASD­^LUER out on the golf course. Jim is an account­ant. DAS HUSHEK was down «iih "Big" TOM MCCARTHY, nicy get Imo X. Y. occasionally to see BOB SAYLA. Had dinner and a good talk with CHARLEY HUTCHEXS. Good looking as ever and twice as well groomed. Charlcj" is in the automobile business down in \'irginia. Has one of the Agencies. Married. CECIL JORDAN' was up and around for the reunion. Will resume next issue. 
|OA | James F. Spcllman James F. Spellman Co. 7 East 42nd St. Xew-York 17, N. Y. 
It lias been nearly seven months since our re­union. At tlic Class meeting in Morris Inn, I asked tliat tlic men present contact rac with any novs they would lia\*c on our many classmates. All agreed tliat it was what we u-anted—to iiavc a good report in each Alumnus. Well, to date, I liave received no letters except the one I am enclosing hcrc%nth, from our good friend AL PERRIXE. It is most informative and ^v'elcomc. I'll include it at tlic end of tlic column. 
I Iiad lunch with AL and BOB WARDELL and GEORGE MILES this week. George, by tlic way, is vatii American Can Co. not Continental Can as I reported in the prior issue. He mox'ed back to the Xcw York area from St. Ixmis in December. Bob, who lives in ^Vestport, Conn., is in tlic legal department of the same company. Wc had a won­derful bull session at the X.D. Club Restaurant on East 39th Street. While we were discussing other classmates, AI mentioned the name of JOE GILLESPIE; the man »tting along side our table perked up and said he •was a Gillcspit.—^Tom, brother of Joe. Tom is in the Class of '39, I think. He said that Joe is with Standard Steel Mfg., and has sue children. Tom also mentioned Bob Iliff; said he *%-as out on the West Coast, but couldn't give me anymore data. 
BERT KELLY, whom I haven't seen in a blue 

moon, is witli Altman's, in X''cw York. Sure wish 
he'd contact me. 
NOEL MacCfVRRY is with American Cvanimid, 
Pearl River, X. Y. 
TOM DELIA called me earlier to say that he met PAUL SCULLY' and BEX FISHBURXE at the Xav")* game. Ben \%'as also at tlie reunion last June. 
Several press releases have added to our infor­mation of '4Icrs. Dr. RICHARD E. BALL was recently appointed associate professor of General Business at Michigan State Univeraty. Dick had been an associate professor of Business Administra­tion at X.D. from 1946 until 1956, and a icaclijng fcUow at Indiana Uni\-erslt>- in 1941-42. 
TOM REIS has joined tlic advertising department of the "Reader's Digest" in Chicago. For tlic past seven years, Tom has been with the Crowell-CoIHer Publishing Co., most recently as manager of its Cleveland Office. 
Dr. JOHX McXAMARA, who received his BS degree from X.D. and later studied medicine at St. Louis Univer^ty, is a psychiatrist on tlie Mcn­nlnger Foundation staff. John was a captain in the Army Medical Corps for two years. 
I am sending out two hundred letters to you men of '41, with a plea to jot down anjthing you want to appear in our column of subsequent issues of tlic Alumnus. Please give me an assist with some news. ^Vc all ^\-ant to learn x«4iat our classmates are doing. 
Here is AI Perrine's letter. If ^-ou *41ers will do likewise, we'll be second to none in class reporting, 
—JIM SPELLMAX, Secj-. 

Hello Jim: 
I don't imagine I'm alone when I say that U I had a buck for cadi and e\-ery time I solemnly swore lo get in whatever news I knew about other 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
guys I could probably retire right no\v-. Be that as it may. Pappy, sure was good seeing you at luncli the other day . . . next time you pay . . . and as vxttved, here's what I know: Spent a heck of a fine %veek-end %WUi HOWIE SCHELLEX­BERG (my ex-roomie) and his %voDderful wife Sally dou-n in Washington, D. C. a few weeks ago. Don't know wliy I c\T:n mention the joker for the fact that it seems to me he's had his handsome puss in more pictures in tlie Alumnus than FATHER HESBURGH in the last year or so. I'll give him credit thought, it was in the capacity of President of tlie Washington, D.C. CLub, and I understand from su>-s other llian Ho^vie. iliat be did a bang-up job while in office. Don't know whetlier I mentioned it the other day or not, but HAXK CAUDILL from '41, was a brother of Ho\vie's \n{c. \Vantcd to call DUKE MURPHY', my ol' Oliver Coffee Shop buddy, while I was down there that week-end with Howie but he and his wife (BABS McCORMICK from St. Mar>-'s) had recently mox-ed to Sumter (?) Virginia from Chevy Chase and wc couldn't find the number. Duke I belie\c is with Anaconda in Washington and doing right well by Edward F., his real name. , . . Tile guy I hear from and sec the most of course is my cx-roomic and brother-in-law, BILL BAUM. Tliat particular event, his marrying my sister Marie Terese, happened about 10 years ago and a nicer guy I couldn't have to call a brotlier­in-Iaw. Tlicy're Ii\"ing out in a lovely place in Huntington, L.I. trith their four clitldrcn. Bill's 
•w'ltlihis Dad in tlie Baumanomaler Co. in CopaJ­que, L.I. It's the blood pressure machine used all over the world and whicli his Dad invented years ago. . . . Altliough I don't know what outfit he's with, just a mashie-niblick shot away in Hun-u'ngton is JI.M .MURPHY. From latest reports I understand Jim is diallenging BOB SAGGAU and GEORGE R.ASS.\S for "can you top this for tlic number of cliildren parade" . . . I'm not gonna attempt a figure here cause I'd be crowned with libel on all three sides if I quoted one. 
If tilings go right tomorrow night I'll be seeing "Mr. Danburj-" himself at a dinner in Xew York. Tlicrc hasn't been a guy in tlie town in the past, nor *vill llicrc ever be I guess, ivho is entitled to wear that label other tlian BOB DORAX. In recent years our family had the good fortune of having a summer place near Danbury and I had the further fortune of seeing Bob and his terrific wife Vera quite a bit. Tlirougli Bob's gradousness we played in a few member-guest tournaments at Bob's dub over the years and after trj-ing a couple of times, succeeded in wiiming it one year. Since tliat time, and after the celebration, it's been all dou-nhill. Xo self respecting P.G.A. ruling will cover us. It's not golf an>Tnore but more **reIoca­tion of real estate" as Bob puts it. Great guy. He's got one of tlie handsomest homes in Connecti­cut and is, with his brothers, in a great machine company in Danbury. In addition to galav'anting around the country a fair bit he's hustled do\Mi to South America, up to Europe, etc etc I'll ^ve liim tlie business tomorrow night to drop you a line for some dope oa the guj-s he's seen. 
Have been working off and on with New York Club activities u-ith KEXXY BEH quite a bit in tlic last feiv years in addition to sedng him about once a week on the 8:13 Square Wheel Spedal of the L.I.R.R. Ken's with the Waldorf-Astoria ban­quet department and lives in Manliasset, L. I. . . . Wliile on the location of L. L .. . I see MIKE GRACE and his pretty* new bride in diurdi eadi Sunday but he dther stays for another Mass or I go out tlic ^v^ong door or something 'cause I ha\-en't been able to catdi him outside. . . . also in tlic same parish and just up the drive from our new home in Douglaston is ADRIAX KUHX ex '41. Adc's quite the boy In the insurance field in New York and still a great X.D. rooter. . . . Had only a fe\*' seconds to say hello to TOM PILGRIM at a local feed bag the other day, but did linger long enough to hear that he's tvitli tlie Reuben Don­nally outfit here in X\ Y. and is quite happy ^vith it. .. . I suppose as soon as I put tliis prose in the envdope I'll think of another half dozen gu>-5 I've seen from our dass in recent months, but for the time being tliis is it. However, before I do sign off I'm gonna put the blast on some of my ol* buddies from the v^'aiting room of Father Traliey's office . . . what's iWtli *DOC' KATER? . . . and haw about the Flasli from Granite Falls, MIKE KEEGAX? .. . and PAUL BROWNFIELD . . . what's happened to you? . . . and as for BILL HAWES, if you don't write Jim as I have, tlien drop dead! * 
Late flash from BARNEY BREHL to Ahunni 

office: 
FRANK McGRODER has been promoted to dustrial sales representative. Laminated Prodtu^^;;'^ Department, General Electric Company. FrankV^!^ headquarters ^vill be in Syracuse, N. Y. He hi»'l7|i been witii GE in Coshocton, Ohio, as a market.-yJ research analv'st. Frank and his wife Jeanne haviei;^ii a daughter, Terry, 5, and a son, Michael, bom W^ ^ December 31, 1956. 
JMHC I 

lO^ O William £. Scanlan 
• '^ ^ 400 East Ulth Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
1 943 i^^"^ ^* Wiggins "* 4800 FairIa«Ti Drive LaCanada, California 
Thank you for the excellent response to the questionnaire wbidi was mailed sometime during October. To date I have received 182 responses. Data from the first half will appear in this issue, the balance ncNt issue. BILL MEYER has been named /Vssistant Sales Manager for Automatic Sprinkler Corporation of America, Youngslown, Ohio. Bill joined the firm in 1946 and has ser^'ed as Contracting Engineer in the firm's 'Richmondy Chicago and Milwaukee offices. AL CLrVRK is employed by Congoleum-Xaim as their publicist. ART HIEGEL has been promoted to Assistant Project Engineer in the Experimental Engineering department of Pratt & Wiiitncy Aircraft, East Hartford. Conn, 
JERRY G.AINER operates tlic Gainer Insurance Agenc>- in Whiting, Indiana. He has four children: two bo>-s and two girls. Jerry saw JOE GOEKEN over the week-end of the Midiigan State game. ROL.AXD MARTEL works for SyU-ania Electric Products in Burlington, Iowa; he is married and has a daughter. Roland will look for JOE KEUSCH at tlie 15-ycar reunion in 1958. FATHER GEORGE BERXARD, C.S.C. is Rector of Breen-Phillips Hall.' Father George wxiuld like to hear from ART KEATING, JACK DUXLA\^' and HERB BECKER. Herb, says Father George, is a X^avi­
gatoe for TWA oa the Sew York to Europe run. 
AL OLIVER commutes between Cedar Lake, Indi­
ana and tlie Pilgrim Distributing Co. on Cliicago's 
5> 

South Side; AI has two daughters. BILL FORD ^vrites that he hopes to make it all the way from EI Paso, Texas to the 15-year reunion. Bill is I-employed by Standard Oil Co. of Texas. Bill has a daughter. His senior year roomie, TOM MITCH­ELL pracu'ccs lau- in Denver. KEVIN OTOOLE is a manufacturer's rep. for F. H. Lawson Co., world's largest manufacturer of medicine cabinets (plug). Kevin, a Glee Clubber, is in the Chmxh Choir of his Chicago parish. He has two sons. O'TooIe wants to sec JOE NORRIS and JOE FRETAGUE at tlie 1958 Reunion. 
BOB HERINGTOX works for Uie Hughes Air­craft Co., in Culver City, Calif. Bob and his family (a boy and a girl) live In Rolling Hills, Calif.; matter of fact. Bob is the president of the Rollingivood Homeowners Assn. I am sure that the Rolling Hills has no connection with the recent earth slides in Uie area. LOUIE KURTZ belongs, to a host of dvic organizations in Des Moines, Io\\*a. IAU has tlirec bo>'s and' a girl; he works at the L. IL Kurtz Co., hardware, sporting goods,^ plumbing and heating supplies. DAVE ROLFS i writes that he has a son and two daughters. You can rcadi him at IVO, Inc. Box 247, West Bend, Wis. Xote to Dave—ever hear from DOX WIXD­FELDER, my Breen-Phillips roommate? JOHX , MURRAY wrote from his insurance offices in Santa Maria, Calif, that he \vouId be at tlic Southern Cal game, hmvcvcr, I missed seeing him there. * John has three sons. His Senior year roommate, CHARLIE LEWIS was lost in Normandy during^ World AVar 11. BOB O'REILLY wrote from the O'Reilly Office Supply Co. in Ft. Wayne, Indiana. Bob has 6 kids: 4 boys, 2 girls. He belongs to an interesting civic organization known as tlic 
Thomas B. Hogan, *39, (extreme right), a director of the Haskins and Sells Foundation, Inc., presents to Dean James W. Culliton a plaque establishing an annual student award for excellence in accounting in Notre Danie*s College of Conmierce. Richard T. Walsh (second from left), Bay City, Mich., a senior accounting major, is the first recipient of the $300 award at Notre Dame. Also taking part in the presentation was Prof. James Dincolo (extreme left), head of the department of accounting. 
Sheriff's Dept. At last \vc clear the mystL'r\' of why MIDDENDORF checked out of Ft. Wayne! Anj-one in, the market for a Biuck or Pontiac should stop at ED MURR.\Y*s agencj* in Mo­mcncc, Illinois. Ed writes that BOB RIHM Is in tlic packing house business in Knightstown, Ind. Ed visited with ROL.\XD ^LVRTEL and VERX BRINK. Tlie Murrays have sL-c children, I son 
, and 5 daughter.s JOHN SCHINDLER says that he plans to make tlic long journey from Mislia­waka to the campus [or the IS-ycar Reunion. 
'•John is a partner at Scliindlcr & Scliindler, law­yers. Another lawyer, JIM C^VHILL practices in 
- LoSalle, III. He has two sons and tu^ daugliters. Jim would like to know what ED HANR.\H.\N and JOHN GARCE.\U arc doing these davs. 
^ JOE FRETACUE works in iJie Rcseardi and Development Engineering department of the Whirl­pooI-Seegcr Corp. in St. Joseph, Mich. He is married and has three cliildren: 2 bo\*5 and a girl. Joe writes that HOWIE H.VNKS is connected witli the Lone Star Cement Co. in New Orleans. H/INS HELL^VND has been an attorney in Wisconsin 
- Dclls, Wis., since finishing law school at tlie University of Wisconsin in 1949. Hans is City Attorney, and a member of the school board; he is married and has two boys and two girls. Ifans says that DICK SNIITH stopped at the Dells en route from Campbell, Minn., to the Oklahoma gatnc. JOE KRESOCK, M.D., practices pedi­atrics—first at home, I suppose, \vith his 3 sons— 
*in Springfield, Mass. Joe would like to hear fn>m any other M.D.'s in tlie class. Joc*s junior year 
•roommate. BOB WALSH, is associated with Gulf Oil in Chicago. JI.M DOWNEY would like to hear from JACK FINNIGAN. You can get in toudi witli lawj'cr Jim at 615 Harvey Bldg., West Palm Beacli, Fla. Jim has two sons and two daughters. FELIX ABALDO, Jim's Senior year roomie, is a Detroit dentist. /Vnothcr prominent Detroiter, JOHNNY McHALE, a Detroit Tiger exec,, plans 
'to attend tlie big 1958 reunion. John lias three sons and two daughters. 
BILL KEENAN is assistant Commerce Counsel for tlie New Haven Railroad in New Haven, Conn. Bill has three boys and a girl. He has been 
"active in Democratic party affairs, and is a member of the Wallingford, Conn. Board of Finance. ART KARTHEISER and BILL SULLIVAN arc two whom Bill >touId like lo hear from; Bill's address: 40 Forest Rd., Wallingford, Conn. From the New 
Haven we go to the New York Central where LEO RITTER works in the Commum'cations De­partment in New York City. Jf the NYC gives out family passes, Leo is aliead of tlic game with 3 boys and 3 girls. Leo's senior year roommate, Ji\MES SUGNET, manages Allstate Insurance Company's S>Tacuse, N. Y. ofHce. DICK GULL­ING iias 3 boys and 3 girls. Dick UT>rks for Timken Roller Bearing Co. in Canton, Ohio. Dick will be looking for LEE RrVYMOND at tlic 15-year Reunion, meantime he would like to hear from Lee. aVROL KLOTZ lives in Manhattan Beacli, Calif, and works at nearby Nordi American Aviation. Whatc\'er happened to the remainder of that famous triumverate of Breen-Phillips, Carol; it was Blat2-Klotz & Kobel. ^VN'THONY (Snorky) BUONO is, as tlie\- say on What's My Line, self-employed at the Exctiangc Hotel, Saugerties, N. Y. He has two sons and two daughters. 
BROTHER PACIFICUS H/\LPIN, C.S.C, is Prin­cipal at Notre Dame High Sdiool, West Haven, Conn. DUD S.MITH is V-P o! tlie George S. Thompson Corp., South Pasadena, Calif.; he has 4 boys and I girl. Dud would like to hear from \V.\LLY KR.\WIEC. JOHN YAVORSKY, Dud's senior year roommate, is a San Diego insurance broker. From the tip-top spot on vour dial at Radio Station WIND writes QUENTIN STUR.M. Ol "Cholly" has five sons. FATHER DAVID FITCH, S.J., is taking graduate studies in political science at Fordham University. Father Dave's friends can reach htm at Cardinal Spcllman Hall on the Fordham campus, New York 58, N. Y. D.\N BARTON lives in AVausau, ^Vis. and works for the National Cylinder Gas Co., Joliel, III. Dan has two Sons; he is an active Wisconsin Democrat. His senior year roommate. JIM MURRj\Y, is in the U. S. Air Force. BOB PALENCH^VR is mar­ried and has a son and a daughter. He is con­nected ^ith the Ex-Ccll-O Corp. in Lima, Ohio. He «-ouW like to hear from HARRY O'.MELIA-Jakc Kline's backstop, WALLY McNAMAR^\ has t\\-o future bascballers. Wally works for E. J. Brach Sc Sons, Chicago candv manufacturers. He would like to hear from JERRY CURRIER. GEORGE CiVRBERRY, Af.D. practices obstetrics and gyn-­colog>- in Gary, Ind, He \\'ouId like to hear from his senior year roommate, JERRY GxMNER. George has tlirec cliildren: 2 bo>-s and a girl. George writes that he saw BILL O'CONNELL and DICK SCHAUB in Philadelphia about a year ago. 
FRANK HERBERT works for the "Atjantic ^fonthIy Magazine" in Boston. He has two chtl. dren, one boy and a girl. His n>onunate in senior year was BILL JOHNSON, v/ho is a5M^rant to the Secretary of Grand Umon Stores, an Eastern food chain. FRED CHRISTMAN is Prendent of 
•
the Terrc Haute, Ind. Notre Dame Club. He operates the Christman Co., plumbing and heating contractors. He has a son and a dau^ter. CHARLIE QUINLAN is District Manager of the Cleveland, Pittsburgh and upstate New York area for the Warner-Lambert Co., manufacturers of drugs and cosmetics. PAT DONOVAN was his roommate in his last year at N.D. P u is now in India \rith the Union CarfocHi & Carbide Co. GENE HILKERT is married with two boys and a girl. He is employed by the Koppers Co., Inc. in Boston, Nfass. Gene would like to hear from KEN KEMPF and CHARLIE DEIBEL. Kempf, Gene thinks, is on the staff at the University. BILL STEWART writes from Boston English High School. Bill is coaching and officiating sports; he has 2 boys and 1 giri. ED NEAGLE is an attor­ney associated with Fox & Schackncr, Newark, 

N.
 J. Ed has three sons. He \\-ouId like to hear from that incurable Giant fan, SAM McQUAID, BILL COSTELLO and BILL O'CONNELL. Look for Ed at the 1958 Reunion. Sam McQuaid is branch manager of £. R. Squibb & Sons, Atlanta office. Sam has three boys and 1 girl. He would like to hear from BILL (Bronnille) O'BRIEN and JOE MARGIN. He would also like to know the whereabouts of his senior year roommate, JACK WARNER. 


BILL WALSH is Assistant Manager of the Phar­maceutical Production Division of Pfizer Interna­tional, Inc. Bill frequently travels to South Amer­ica to supervise installation and operation of new planU. He has 3 boys and 3 ^Is . RALPH ONO­FRION, M.D. has a pri\-ate practice in obstetrics and gynecology in Haddonfield, N. J. He and his six kids (4 boys, 2 girls) would like to hear from JOE GIBBONS. The big baker of the Class, JOE GOEKEN, Noll's Baking & Ice Cream Co., Alton, III. has 2 boys and 2 girb. .Along comes another in the baking business, BILL CLEMENS, who is employed by the Trausch Baking Co., Du­buque, lou-xu Bill has been active in many civic affairs such as United Fund, Red Cross, Chamber of Commerce, and the Airport Commission. He has a son and a daughter. His senior year room­mate, JACK (The Body—Unkidnapped) SOLON is an owner of the Solon Funeral Home in Streator, 
111. Both GOEKEN and CLEMENS probably have been contacted by BILL UNGASHICK who has founded the Shick Engineering Co., Kansas City. Bill's company specialues in selling, engineering and installing pneumatic conveying; in bakeries it cJiiefly concerns flour conveying. Bill has a boy and a girl. He would like to hear from DON GUY, TOM VOLBERDING, BOB MURPHY, and CAROL KLOTZ. Bill's senior year rtwmmate JACK \V1ET0FF is in production engineering at Spcrry Instruments, Long Island, N. Y. Bill visited Jack recently. He also saw BOB MADDEN, who is employed by Goodyear Aircraft Division. 
194 4 G^rgc Bariscillo 513 Fifth Avenue Bradley Bcacb, N. J. 
It seemed like the class of *44 was holding _ a special reunion in the lobby of the Morris Inn just prior to the Michigan State game. We saw'JOE VAN DYKE, BOB AIETZLER. and BERNIE FI­NUCANE, all up for the doings from Kansas City; and in from New York such stalwarts as JOHN DUFFY, BILL ROGERS, TONY EARLEY, and ANGELO BERTELLI. _"Black John" MURPHY joined the gang and reported he was now with Charles Pfizer Co. in Terre Haute. Duffy men­tioned seeing "CHUCK" PATTERSON at the World Series and informed us that *'Clnick" is in the front office of the Milwaukee Braves organiza­tion. JOE NEUFELD dropped in from Green Bay, Wisconsin for the game, and also was on hand for the Oklalioma debacle the following weekend. MIKE FRAWLEY, too, made it a double occasion, catching both contests. Mike, incidentally, makes his headquarters in St. Louis now and is with the National Cash Register Co. 
VINCE DUNCAN made the Michigan State weekend and popped in and out the next week just for the game and back to Blount Vernon, III. We missed seeing *'GRIFF" ALLEN this football sea­son; understand he ^^-as tied up at a lumbermen's convention in Chi and that's :d>out a$ close as he got lo South Bend. 
Speaking of Chi, your scribe managed a couple 
Notre Dame AlumntiSj Feb.-Mar.y 1957 59 
of trips in to the ^Vindy City between games. Lmiching wtli H^VRRY YE^VTES at the Black-hawk, wc learned that TOM O'CONNOR is the proud papa of four little ones and is liWng In La-Gnuigc, III. and commuting in to Chi -where he is associated witli tlic J. 'Walter Thompson Co. Harry reported seeing JOHN LYNCH occasionally down in South Bend. Jolm recently had a short stor>' publislied m liie Univ. of Nebraska's "Prairie Scliooncr" and presently is an editor in thcs guided missile dix-ision of Bcndix. Ycatcs is an associate editor of the Business Papers Di\iMon of the Reu­ben H. Donnelley Corp. 
NICK AMATO was back on campus for the Oklahoma gams and told us some of his experi­ences as a member of the faculty of the history dept. at St. Bonaventurc. 
In Baltimore at the Na\y ^amc . . . LOU BURNS looking as dapper as ever . . . GEORGE MOBILE taking time out from his busy law prac­tice to sec for himself, "What's ^^To^g witli the Irish" . . . JACK McCVBE offering his ou-n expert analysis of the silualion . . . McCABE recently best-manned for LARRY SCHAT2LEIN. 
JOHN MORRISON, liring in Vetnlle with his family, is now doing special graduate work in the DcpL of Mathematics. 
Had a verv- welcome letter from JOHN P. UT2, now practicing medicine in Chev-y Ctiasc, Md^ (4€10 Langdrum Lane). John would like to hear some news of ED ALTENDORF, JOHN RICHARDS, JOHN CL\'NE, JOE NEUFELD, MAURICE HEALY, GEORGE EUSTERALVN, CHARLIE PRICH-VRD. (If aforementioned would take pen in hand and \mtc I'd be happy to pass along the ncivs). 
John writes, "I have read of JIM O'DE^V of Middlesex County, Mass., who^true to his words tliat he would go into politics—is now D.A. of the above county. And in toda>-*s "Time" maga­zine I read about BOB G.\LVIN (recently elected president of Motorola Corp.). I think BILL LAW­LESS and I can be proud of Bob. Unless Bill has made it, Bob*s tlic only member of Cavanaugli Debate Team lWO-4-1 who is now president of a company. Do you remember Bob's coat of many colors at iforrfsscy? 
"Tlic other day we had a fine \isit with J. C. R. CLARK, who is still with Champion Papers in Hamilton, Ohio. Jim is still single and continues to live at Oakridge in Hamilton." 
A Christmas message from our international cor­r«pondent, DICK "CACTUS" LEON in Mexico City, brings news that JIM ^L\HONEY of Kala­mazoo, Midi, ^%-as down Mexico way on a t^vo­weck \acation, and that the Leons and Malione>-s had a wonderful risit together- "Cactus" is ezsy to locate in Mexico City—lils oflicc is just above the Rcforma Ave. Woolworth store, and he asks that any of the gang who may ever get down that ivay look him up. 
My old roomie, JOHNNY BAUM, promises on his Christmas card this year that one of his many resolutions for *57 is a letter for the column. Hope more of you ^vill follow suit. It would help. 
JIM MALOS'E suggests a slogan for our next reunion (our 15th, two years from tliis June) . . . "Be on Time in Fift\*-nine." It's not too early to start making some long range plans to attend. 'We're not getting any \tmngcr, you knm**. 
BOB MARTINA jotted some notes on his Christ­mas card from La Habra (near L.A.) Calif. Says he is still working for Gilfillon Bros., electronics, radar, missiles, etc, and may be moxing north to tlie San Francisco area soon. He passes along news that JOHN BEYERLE had an addition to the family last July and tliat D.AN TOMCIK is asst. cliicf engineer at his plant. Electro-voice. 
Abo happy to have Christmas messages from ED CASH^IAN now living in ^Vashington and on tlie faculty at Georgetown Univ.; JOE RUD who is still suffering through tlie hot summers in Dallas; BEN ^UMIMMA from Benton Harbor; TALBOT, YEATES, LONDERG/\N, etc Many thanks. 
**Doc" BILL GILLESPIE announces the open­ing of his ofHce in St. Louis, Mo. specializing in endoscopy, tlioracic surgcr>', and cardio-iascular surgcrj*. 
"CREIGHT" MILLER'S new office address in Cleveland is 452 Hanna Building. Tlie sports pages recently announced that Miller had been retained by an organization of National Football League players and he was representing them in nego­tiations witli the football commissioner and club owners. 
BOB GALVIN was named by tlie Chicago Junior Association of Commerce as one of four Chlcagoans honored as the citv-'s outstanding men between the ages of 21 and 33 in 195G. 
Tlic BOB MILFORDs of Marion, Ind., announce 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
The Ray T. Miller, Jr., '51, family of Cleveland, O. Ray has just been re-elected to the Ohio House of Representatives for the third term. 
the birth of their fifth child and third son on October 24th. 
PAUL W. HURD has joined Trans ^Vorid Air­lines as manager of overseas taxes witli offices in the T\VA Midtown building in Kansas City, Mo. In 1954 he joined the Kansas Tax Commission and rose to position as chief attorney for the state commission of re\'enue and taxation for the Slate of Kansas. Paul's a good man to know. 
W. R. Grace & Co. recently announced tlic for­mation of a new Latin American Paper and Chemi­cal Group, with our own JACK WHITELY, who has been elected an Executive Vice-President, in cliarge of tlic Group. ^\'liitely will specifically di­rect the company's extensive expansion program in paper and chemicals in Latin America. 
GER(\LD A. KAMM, assodate member of the law firm of Doran and Manion, has been elected lo the board of directors of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Company of South -Bend. He is also a director and general counsel for the Central State Bank of Lakcville and is a member of the St. Joseph County Bar Assn., American Bar Assn., American Judicature Society and Lavv Science Academy of America. 
And that brings >'Ou up to tlie minute on news tliat has come across your reporter's desk since our last column. So\\\ *von't you do something to help witli the next? 
104 c AI Lcsmez I »-T*# J22 TuUamore Road Garden City, N. Y. 
TH.\NK YOU 
Your secrctarj' wants to tliank eacli of you who %\-as tlioughtful enough to send me a Christmas greeting, and who took tlic time to fill out tlic ittformation-haU of tlie Christinas card that was sent to cacli member of tlie class. Tlie %%*ann wishes from the few '45'crs arc ver>- appreciated 
and will help to provide Hie energies needed for 
lliis hectic job. To j-ou who have not answered, 
it is ne\'er too late, and tlie information you give me will be tlic ammunition for this column. So please cooperate. A NEW YE.AR'S RESOLUTION 
BILL MOORE, Class Treasurer, reports tliat there is still a majority who have not paid their Class dues. He has asked for five dollars from eacli of you to €»ver the period from 1955 to 1960, when we shall meet again for our Class Reunion. So many of you keep putting this taskj off and Class finances are so poor tliat we are, asking that you resolve immediately to send the; monc\- today. His address is: ^ViIliam W. Moore, 720 Droing Place, Plainficid, New Jersey'. Gef that check off; be a "doer" and not a "partj--^ pooper.'' NEWS FROM HERE /\ND THERE 

Have >-ou heard tliat BILL CLEMENCY is the proud father of a 6 lb., 7 oz. baby boy, Paul Gerard, bom July 1956 . . . that brings the total to 3 boys and 2 girls for Bill and Cathie . . . that along with this good news came also the appointment of Bill to the post of /Assistant Prin­cipal in tlic New York City School District . . . that Michael Charles, weighing in at 7 lbs. 2 oz., became a permanent resident on October 11 at the home of Jane and CHUCK SARTORE in Mem­phis, Tenn. . . . that the ROBERT ERKlNs arc the recipients of a third baby girl back in July . . . tliat Bob had one of the most novel baby announcements your Secretary' has ever seen, being in the form of a small newspaper edition . . . that Class President JIM CLYNES, JR., although he was defeated for District Attorney in Ithaca, New York, has just been appointed Corporation Couns<;l for the City of Ithaca . . . that TERRY 
E. \V*ILSON is residing at 4475 23rd Street, Saa Francisco, Calif, and is working for the Shell Oil Company as Anti-trust Suit Defense Attorney . . . that Vice-President West, PHIL MARTIN, is now residing at 4787 Lee Avenue, LeMcsa, Calif. ... . tliat HENRY PA\'NE is liWng at 128 North Hinds-dale, III,, right next to BUD GOTTA's town . . . tliat >-Dur Class Secrctar>' and his wife Betty just returned from a verj* enjo>-able and wonderful weekend uitli his old roomy PAUL W. SMITH in Atlanta, Georgia . . . that Paul's family con­sists of his lovely wife, Elise, his sons Paul Joseph (6), Patrick James (1), and his daughters, Mary Teresa (4) and Nanc\- Giles (3) . . . tliat South­ern hospitality could not have been better exempli­fied or more cordially extended by Paul's whole family, and that it was a very heart-uarming ex­perience to bounce those four wonderiul kids around on our knees . . . that it was a treat haring 
50 much of the delicious Southern cooking that Elisc 
prepared, not to forget the delicious (no recipe available) Soutliem,Chicken prepared by clief Paul . . . that there arc a few unclaimed returned Christmas cards of prominent Class members and tfiat your Secretary* would appreciate receiving word as to the whereabouts of these *'men-in­hidnig" . . . ifr. ROBERT C. RE.\RDON, Gen­eral Deliver^-, Tulsa, Oklaiioma . . . Mr. JOSEPH 
E. INCE, 516 South Flower Street, Inglewood, Calif. . . . Mr. RICHARD J. AMES, 816 Tliom­hill Drive, Colma, Calif. . . . Mr. JOHN P. RI­NELL/\. 436 No. Austin Blvd., Oak Park, Illinois. LETITERS FROM DEPARTMENT 
From BOB RIORDAN: "Got back from a trip through South America just in time to spend Chrbt­mas with the family (t^vo boys and two girls now) . . . called COCO LULLI when I was in Lima, Peru to learn he u-as about to be married . . . attended the vcrj- Itivcly wedding November 1 . . . travel is part of my job as Export Manager at Wheelabrator Corporation, Mishawaka. Indiana. . . . hope you enjoyed Europe and had good ^veather .. . 
*'Best wishes of the Holy Season." 

From JOHN R. MADDEN: "Marie and I had an early Christmas present on 12-11-56—Scana (Shaw­na) Mara. Our son, Malaclii Patrick is now two. 
"Nice to hear from you—Best Wishes for a tip­top '57." 
From MIKE MANZO: "I am teaching and coach­ing football in my home city of Medford. I am married and the father of a 4-year-oId son named Micliacl. My address h 87 Medford Street, Ar­lington 1, Mass. I sure would like to hear from some of the *45 gang." 
From E. J. OTOOLE, JR.: "Since my diwrharge' in 1945 I've been working with my Dad at Reives and Hildchrand—a tfomen's department store hcrej in town. 
Stayed single until 11-26-55 when I married Dorothy Hoelsclier in Covington, Kentucky. We arc living in our own home at 1423 Michigan Ave­nue, St. Joseph, Mich." j 
From R. E. (BOB) THOXLVS: "In case any of the Class of *45 or old NROTC gimg have occa-, sion to be near New London, Conn., drop by and' have a cup ol coffee. I recently completed a tour of shore duly as an instructor in the officers' classj of Submarine Scliool and am now Executive Officer of the Submarine Conger (SS 477) based at New London. I just recently made the selection list for Lieut. Commander so hope to have my new stripes In a few months. Nanc\' and I have one little girl, Linda, ago 2. 
A Happy Holiday Season, Al, and congratulations on your always outstanding Job as class secretary and work horse." 
From KEX KEHL: "Still a dentist in Chicago at 79tli and \Vcstcrn. Have 3 girls and 2 boys. Certainly enjoy reading about our Pre-mcd group and where thc>- aJJ located. I would like to hear about more of them. 
"Happy New Year, Al, you're doing an excel­lent job.*' 

r 
From ED FROST, -JR.: "Although we have had no additions to our family of two boys (6 and 4) and two girls (5 and 2), during 1956 I became Associate Actuary* for tlie State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. I was also fortunate 
enough to become an f\ssociatc of the Casualty Actuarial Society. I believe I am the only Notre Dame graduate \%*ho is a member of the profes­sional actuarial society. U there are any others I would like to correspond with them. The best to you and all of the class of '45 in 1957." 
I 
From JIM SCHWEICKERT: "I'm sure many a nuui in the class will cnv>* me my new spot as 
Director of Nurses and Nursing Services. I took over the ofilcc at tlic Cleveland Regional Treatment Center on November I6th, by invitation. 
Tilings arc in the process of dex'elopmcnt only so my current occupation and preoccupation is with ground work activity. 
"After the first throes of homesickness in my six, four, and nearly two year-old children, things arc going well. I haven't contacted any ND men yet but Jeanctte has flushed out at least one Mary Manse classmate. 
"We do think we will like Cleveland. I think my olTsprings are back to normal as evidenced by the quer>' of my daughter Christine (four) at breakfast. Before St. Nick is even home again she asks, 'Father, is the Easter Bunny coming?' 
"Happy Nc»* Year." 

From HERB D.MKER: "During our summer sea­son here wc had occasion to meet many ND alumni and quite a few students. ^\5 guests here at the Fulton We enjoyed the companv of Mr. and Mrs. DICK BATE.\IAN '45 Roclicster, N. Y., BILL and Man- Agnes GRf\N*T '45 Erie, Pa., Mr. and Mrs. 
T. R. HERBERT '48, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HERB­ERT '51 Auburn, N. Y., JIM MULVANEY '48 and family, and PHIL KELLY '49 S>-racuse. ^Ve had a swell vacation with these men and their families and arc looking forward to seeing many more classmates and other ND families here for summer vacations next year. If you get a chance to come up state, Al—be sure to stop in and say hello." 
From EM.MET T. SHEER.\N, M.D.: "Best 

' wishes for the New Year. I am just finishing a surgical rcsidcnc>* at Lakewood Hospital. If you know of any town crying for a young general surgeon let me know." 
From BROTHER AUGUSTUS PATIN, C.S.C: "You should indeed receive a reply from all of us, and this form makes it so easy. Slay I, a Brother of Holy Cross and a proud member of '45 assure you that I remember you and fellow Notre Dame men in my spiritual exercises. Also the little crosses of the teaching profession are ofTercd for your wcltarc and ^,T>. Men. Keep up the good work." 
From JOHN HOSBEIN: "The biggest news here is the arri\'al of another boy child on Nov. II, *56. Wc named him Michael: his older brother, Peter, was 2 in October. JL\f BUTLER has left this area and is now located in Indianapolis with a metals company. The lads in that part of the countr>' are aware of his arrival, I'm sure. 
"Our Company is looking forward to another vcr>' good year, so wc expect to be ver>* busy in the steel mills hrre and in the Youngslown district. 
, "I'd like to add my thanks with those of the rest of our classmates to you, Al, for the work you're doing to keep '45 together and growing." 
• From JIM CLYNES, JR., Class President: "In your recent column, you quoted JIM RETTER, saying that he had seen me in Utica. You might tell Jim that he should at least know where he has been. He was in ITHACA. He keeps promis­
ing that he will have dinner with me and alu'ays calls as he is leaving town. I think maybe the Police arc after him. 
"Seriously tliough, I do enjoy hearing from him and I also hear from FR.-'VNK LINEHiVX once in 4V while. 
**As I have written you before, I am sorry that more of our Class members didn't see fit to attend our Lunclieon prior to the Oklolioma game. 
' "I hope to get into Nexv York in January- and perhaps we can have lunch together at that time. 
"If I can be of any aid in spurring on the non-paid dues members of our Class, I would be more than happy to do so. 
"I u-as also very glad to hear that we had finally located BILL MARTIN and hope that he had a fine luncheon before the Southern Cal game. 
"Looking forward to seeing you in the near future, and with kindest personal regards." DO YOUR SHARE 
^Vc arc doing the very best we can in building up our Class and in strengthening our ties. But the Class must have financial independence to suc­ceed. }Vc ask only that yoix do your share to help us. Please send your dues to Bill Moore. 
1 94A -^"^^ Tengc, Jr. #-iw 2025 West Six Mile Road Detroit 3, Michigan 
Reunion 
Junt 
I 7-8-9 ,1 
1947 James E. Murphy 
I #-T# jyQg Churchill Drive South Bend 17} Indiana 
1948 Herman A. Zitt 
635 Belmont Park, No. 
Dayton, Ohio 
I think your secretary needs to begin 1957 with an apology- for missing the last issue of the Alum­nus. However, being out of commission for a while last summer has put me behind on quite a few projects tliat one ordinarily has to handle in the course of trv'ing to keep up with six little Zitts. Did manage lo sec "our boys** defeated by Okla­homa. P.\UL LiVMMERS helped to keep up our spirits in spite of the score. 
Wc have quite a nucleus of '^S men and others around our linic who I see at various Dayton 

N.D. functions, namelv, Paul Lammers, ERNIE L.VSKEY, DICK ELLIOTT, BUD CONDROX, JOE DUES, ED DUFF, LOU HALEY, BILL H-WVLEY, CLIFF HOEINE, BILL MacMILUVX, FR-YXK ,\fcBRIDE, LOU TR.\CY, HARRY WOR­AL\N and others who I Iiave undoubtedly missed. 
I used to sec JOHX McCORALACK from time to time. He ts still Hx'ing in Cincinnati. Don't know whether FRED SHADLEY, BOB .MEULE­^L\X and JOHX CLEMEXS are still with Crosley in Cincinnati since Crosle>'*s departure from the appliance business. Tlie Shadley's now have two daughters and one son. Haven't received our annual "The Word'* message from JOHX and Barb FEJ\D. The a\R L ZWISLERS are still living near Indi­anapolis—Carl is \\'orking for Firestone at Xoblcs­villc, Ind. 
Dr. TOM DOOLEY has just received one of the ten annual Junior Chamber of Commerce a^v-ards for his best seller, ''Deliver Us From EWI" and for his fight against Communism in general. 
Have received word of the death of BILL HE­

BER*s wife in July. Also, BOB FL/VXXERY*s 
and JIM REILLY's mothers passed away recently. 
I'm sure the entire class of 'AH expresses its sin­
cere s>Tnpatliy to Bill, Bob and Jim. 
CHARLES TURVEY is superintendent of the Catalytic cracking division of Continental Oil Com­pany's I'onca City, Oklahoma. refincr\-. JOHX BREHL is working for the Toronto (Ontario) "Star" as a reporter. He and his wife are the proud parents of three boys and one girl. JOHX CULLIGJVX is at the Mayo Clinic in Rocliester, Minn., as a FCIJOJV in Surgery. JOHX GL/VVIX is associated with the Haloid Company in Rochester, 
X. Y. WARREX ROQUE received his master of arts degree in education, English, last June. Dr. EU­GENE CURTSIXGER is dean of the faculty at the new Univcrsitv of Dallas. GERi\LD L. KERSCHEX received a master of education degree from the University' of Wichita 
in 1956. JOHX O'XEILL has been practicing law in Detrtnt since his graduation from the University of Detroit Law School in 1951. 
I am sure that all of ^Dur classmates ivould like to hear about you. ^Vhy don*t you write to me in time for tlie next Alumnus? 
1949 J**'^ Walker 
• '^ ^ 826 Wing Street Elgin, Illinois 
From Alumni OfHcc: 

WILLIAM O. WARD recently announced his association with Robert ^Vhitman and Henry Wien In the general practice of law with ofSccs at Suite I, Leary Building, 10727 South Paramount Blvd., Downey, Calif. 
LOUIS J. BURNS, JR. is a partner in the pub­lic relations firm of McCormick Associates^ 1300 The W>-att Building, Washington 5, D. C. Lou formerly was vice-president of Coales and Mc­Cormick, Inc., New York. 
JOSEPH E. HIPP is studying for the priesthood at Christ the King Seminary, St. Bonavcnture, Xew York. 
The University of Michigan recently announced the appointment of DOXALD A. DOOLEY as assistant professor of aeronautical engineering for a t»vo-year period. Don formerly was a research engineer in the jet propulsion laboratory of Cali­fornia Institute of Technology and research spe­cialist in the Missile De\-elopment Division of Xorth fVmerican .Aviation, Inc. • 
RUDOLPH ^V. KUZMICH, Aft. Carmcl, 111, U the netv president and half-owner of the R. K. Petroleum Corporation. 
19M Richard F. Hahn 
• '^ ^ 6930 North Odell Chicago 31, Illinois 
From Alumni Office: 

ROBERT J. S.AXFORD was recently appointed Promotion Manager-Publications for the U. S. Gyp­sum Company in Cliicago. 
VERXON C. WOLFF, JR., who received his Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1950, has joined the stafT of DuPont's Polydicmicals Department re­search division as a research chemist at the Experi­mental Station in Wilmington. 
THOMxVS J. ZGAS has been appointed District Manager for U. S. Gypsum Company in St. Louis. Tom, who has been with U.S.G. since 1950, ^^:as formerly a salesman for the company in thdr Atlanta, Ga., and Birmingham, Ala., districts. 
RICHARD M. COLVSURD was married to Miss Bcttc Rae Coclirane on November 24 in the Queen of the Holy Rosary Cathedral in Toledo. Dick, formerly a special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, is presently assistant U. S. district attomev in Toledo. 
CiVRLTON A. SEARS, who received his Ph.D, from Xotre Dame in 1950, was recently elected chairman of the American Chemical Society's Di­vision of Chemical Marketing and Economics for 1957. He is presently employed by American Cyanamid Company, Xew Vorfc, In their Fine Chemicals Division. 
WILLI.A.M J. BARNETT, a metallurgist with the General Electric Company, was named a co-winner of the Henry Afarion Medal at the 38th National Metal Congress and Exposition in Cleveland last fall. Tlic medal is given annually by the American Society of Metals in recognition for scientific achievement. 
Congolcum-Nairn, Inc., has announced the ap­pointment of JOSEPH C. H.\RKINS, JR., as as­sistant to the plant manager of their Kearney, 
N. J., plant. Joe joined tlie company in 1954 as stair patent counsel and later u-as named assistant to the director of research and de*'eIopraent. 
HAROLD V. xXNTHONY is working as an as­sistant engineer at tlie Core Laboratory', Farming­ton, Xew Mexico. 
Rx\YMOND T. THROCK.MORTON is a part­ner with the Geologic /Xssociates in NashWlte, Tcnn. 
H^\ROLD W. SHEERAN is an independent mine operator in Miami, Oklahoma. He and his ^rife are the proud parents of live children, four boys and a girl. 
I OBI Robert J. Klingenherger ' ' * • 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
JOE DUKERT, who has recently returned from a year of study in Europe, is now associated \rith the Glenn L. Martin Company, Baltimore, Md. Joe is doing public relations ^vork and is assigned 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar., 1957 • 61 
to co-ordinating details of tlic Project Vanguard Speakers Bureau. Tliis is concerned with the Martin contract on the Uirec-stagc rocket to launch the first earth satellite. Joc^s job is to '\%'ork with various organizations in presenting speakers from the company who are ke>- engineers on the project. He inWtcs all metnbcrs of the class who would like a rescrx'ed scat on the first cartli satellite to contact him before the supply is exhausted. 
DR. JOHN J. BOEH.M is a physician at Chil­dren's Memorial Hospital, 707 X. Fullcrton Ave­nue, Clitcago, 111. 
Congratulations to PAT 0'SULLI\^\N who mar­ried Maureen Marguerite MacDonald in Aurora, 111., on Januarj* 5. Best wishes to you also, Maureen. Sully's home address is 2005 Militar\' Street, Port Huron, Midiigan. 
Anne Boiler writes for her husband FRt\XK HOLLER and announced tlie birth of their fourtli cJiild and the second boy, MicliacI Louis Boiler. .Also, she writes that TED PRAHIXSKI writes frequently, but never encloses bis address. I can't help yiDu Anne, but possibly Ted will send it to you after reading this column. Tlicir address: 16244 Ringside Drive. Cox-ina, California. 
BILL MacMILLAN writes that he is practicing law with tlic firm of Miuphy and ^fayl for three years in Dayton, Ohio. Recently, he and another young attorney* have set up an oflicc in the suburb of Trotwood and attend it in tlic evening hours. On October 13, 1956, he married Lois Lcisten­schnwdcr of St. Henry, Ohio, and now lives at 917 Richmond -Avenue, Apt. No. 3, Davton 5, Ohio. 
JOHN JOYCE, whose address is 6214 East Mar­shall Place, Tulsa 15, Oklahoma, ^vas made the diief engineer of Braden Steel Corporation. John wrote tliis letter last February, but it got lost some place and some of the news may be a little old. He writes that Pat Sullivan got married last year and WHS Working for a doctor's degree in metallurgy from M.I.T. PITT THOME is working for United Aircraft in East Hartford, Conn. He has a mas­ter's degree in Aero-Engineering from M.I.T. and got married last year. BILL GRUNSKI is also \sTorking for United .Aircraft. JOE DELxVNEY is living and wwrking in Georgia somewhere. PAUL LO\'E'l'l"E called me from the airport while passing through. He is working for Coming Glass and has four children. 
DON SONDAG, whose address is 106 Bradshaw, EI Paso, Texas, is married, has one irhild and is a cr^^tain in the service in Texas. He %\*ritcs tliat he interned at Denver General Hospital after gradu­ating from Northwestern ^fedical School. He \sTites that he was married after Medical School and honeymooned in Europe for sue weeks. Also, he wrote that TOM ME^TR is stationed in a dis­pcnsar>- at Fort Sam Houston, San Antonio, Texas. ED FITZGERALD is stationed in an Army re­cruiting center in Detroit, and JOE HANRAHAN has a similar position in Rock Island, III. (Tlianks for the news Don, and I forwarded vour letter to HANK MADDE.N.) 
JIM MADDEN, C.S.C.. writes that on June 5 he expects to be ordained in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame and would like to sec as many of his friends as possible in attendance at that time. Shortly after ordination, sometime in Octo­ber, he will be going to one of the big missions in Bengal, India. He writes that this has been a lasting ambition and he is verv* anxious to get there. 
Tlianks for the Christmas cards from the fol­lowing fellou-s: Frank Boiler and family; BILL ANHUT and family; Don Sondag and family; PAT BARRETT, 5916 Goodman St., Meniam, Kansas. Pat is in medical scliool at the Univ. of Kansas and inxites anyone to drop in if in his neighborhood; RAY MILLER and family (2 boys and 1 girl); BUD HERR and familv (1 bov and 1 giri); HAR\^Y O'NEILL and family (2 Iwj-s); JOHN MOORE, who is \rith General Motors, along with LEO BRENNAN and both are baching it in Birmingham, Midi.; Hank Madden and family 
(2 girls). Hank is building a home in Chatta­
nooga and hopes to be in it soon. (See, it helps 
to be an engineer. Although, he's not building 
it himself, I'm sure he could. Editor's note); 
TOM LOGAN, who is still badiing it while prac­
ticing law in Fort \Va\-ne; and DICK MacDON-
ALD and family (1 hoy and 1 girl). 
That's all of the news tlus time and I only wish that I had received more Christmas cards with news on some of our dassmates. Make a mental note to do it next year. 
My last bit of information is the announcement of Mary Beth, bom to Margaret A. KLINGEN­BERGER, wife of BOB, on November 28. This makes 1 boy and I girl and we're all very happy. 
19S2  Harr\- L. Buch  
• '^ ^  986 National Road  
WTieeling, West Virginia  

Reioiion 
%^­
June 
i-e-9 I 
\Vell another year has gone by and in only a few months it will be time for the old dan to gather at ND for the five-year dass reunion. Re­member the time, around the first of June. 
DICK SHERIDAN married a girl from Wheel­ing, W. Va., Miss Nano' Williams, on December 
1. At present he is working for a Pittsburgh indus­trial construction company at General Electric's atomic power laboratory outside of Saratoga Springs. JOHN A. HALTER entered tlie Uni­versity of Texas after 3 years as a Navy Supply Officer and has completed \vork for a degree of Master of Professional Accounting. At present he is associated with the firm of Price Wateriiousc in Los Angeles. TOM DUNLAY was married last September and is now working in real estate for Herb Lightfoot & Assoc in Van Nu>-s, California. 
Had quite a gathering of tlie dan in Baltimore for tlie Na\y game, BILL RYAN, GEORGE GLAS­SER, R.\Y SL\*MAN, ED FOLEY, TOM HAN­RAH.\N, JERRY' McGINNIS, FRANK AMNUTO, DON PIERSON, and JIM MUTCHELLER. BHI Ryan is in Baltimore teaching Physical Education at Loyola High Sdiool. Jcrr>' McGtnnis and Frank Ammato are with IBM in Kingston, New York. RAY.MOND "Chip" DUNG\N is living at Cen­tral Road, Mt. Vernon, 111., and is now the proud father of a little man, Michael James bom October 
19. JIM WALSH is married and living in St. Louis. JIM ^LANION was in Japan with the Navy at last count. 
JI.M FRIEMUTH Is living in Texas and is work­ing with Oilwell Supply Co. HENRY PHELAN is living in St. Louis playing the piano, becoming a banker and flving sweet young things around in a light plane. Rumor has it that WALLY'PUR­CELL is dose to tying the knot and he no longer has the Jaguar. TOM FOLEY v^-as married in November and had the reception at tlie Tam O'Shanter in Chicago. ED BALL married a girl from Georgia and is now selling accounting ma­diincs for Burroughs. He is the father of two children and lives at 4028 Woodvale Drive, South Bend. JOE B.^UTERS is a CPA with Crowe and Chizoh firm. ED GRAY at last report was teach­ing at ND and living at 2628 E. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend. PAUL BENNETT, who drwppcd out of our dass to serve in the Air Force v^'as back at ND to complete his Bus Ad course. PHIL ANDERSON, after his term in service, returned to ND as a teaching fellow in accounting and was worki:ig on a masters in education. 
JOHN REYNOLDS became a Cartliusian monk and is at La Grande" Chartreuse, St. Pierre de Chartreuse, Isere, France. JERRY MORRIS is the happiest monk at Our Lady of Genesee Monas­tery, Piffard, New York. He receives all mail and writes eiglit letters a year to anyone. DAVID L. RICHARD is married and has a son, Gregory-, and Mr. and Mrs. R. are expecting another in January. At present he is working for Willett and Wharton accounting firm. Give my best to Bill Slowey. JOHN "Moe" MORAN and family send their best wishes and said he would sec the old gang in June. 
GEORGE GLASSER is the father of two sons and is at tlie Johnsville Air Dcvdopment Center. TOM DIGAN is the father of 2 children—the thirtl is expected in March. At present he is with IBM and living in Hyde Park, New York. CHUCK DOOLEY v%-as released from the Navy in Sept. and is now living in Westfidd, New Jerse>'. He is v%-orking with his dad in the Funeral Home. DON PIERSON h vrorking at All State Engineer­ing in Trenton, New Jersey. He is due to be married to Shiriee Beans. JOE SCHERER is still at \Vestingfaou5e in Baltimore. He, Maureen and Tommy live at 413 C Edsdale Rd., Baltimore 29, Md. BOB KAMPF is working at RCA in Cam­den, N. J. and was married a year ago. JOHN MINCK is married and lives at 2583 Alma St., 

Palo Alto, Calif. Mter his release he commenced his studies at Stanford for a Master's Degree. LEO HICKEY, wife and daughter were in Jolinsville but after his release from the Navy, they moved to Ssattle where he is working for Boeing Aircraft. TOM G.\US.MAN is married and lives at Ridi Valley Rd., Emporium, Pa. JACK KMIECIK is married to a Chicago girl. 
JOHN A. COLEMAN was admitted to the New York Stock Exdiange on June 8, 1956. At this time he received his offidal membership. ROBERT 
E. FRUIN, III has joined the staff of the Whiting Researdi Laboratories of the Standard Oil Com­pany (Indiana). O.MAR J. SOTILLO received a Master's Degree in June from tlic Renssdaer Poly­tcdinic Institute. The Doctor of Philosophy De­gree v^-as conferred on PAUL JOSEPH SCHLICH­TA by the president of the California Institute of Tedinologv-. R/\LPH RICHARD received the Doc­tor of Philosophy Degree from the University of Washington in June. 
JOHN BRADSHA\V' lias a new address as fol­lows—^VW-2 Administration, N.'\S PattLxent River, Maryland. How do you Hke the Navy, Jack? ROBERT AMUNDSON is now in the department of 5odolog>* at Loretto Heights College and part-time lecturer at Regis College, Denver. CHARLES j 
F. PAQUETTE has become a member of the divi-' sion engineering department of Monsanto Chemical ! Company. DONALD CONNERS has joined the Bettis Plant, atomic power research laboratory which Wcstinghousc Electric operates for the Atomic Energv- Commission. At present he is Hv-' ing at 1721 Hden Drive, Pittsburgh. JOE NUCCI ^ received a master's degree from Pitt in June. CHARLEY SCHUBERT was appointed as one of the Life's Retail Representatives for the Phila­delphia area. 
Well that about docs it for this writing. Keep the news coming and I'll do my best to relay your whereabouts. Hope to sec most of you in June if this man's Navy sees fit to be' in the states for a change. 
IOC O Thomas W. Reedy 
•''^•' 337 Wagner Road Northfieldf Illinois 

NORMAN J. DONATO received a master of business education degree from Ohio State Univer­sity in December. 
JOHN C. RUCKELSHAUS was recently sworn in as State Senator from Marion County, Ind. He is the youngest man ever to be elected to the , Indiana State Senate. Jack is married and the father of two daughters. His address is 5360 Park Avenue, Indianapolis, Ind. -^ 
1 954 George A. Pflaum, Jr. 4262 Catalpa Drive No. 2 Dayton 5, Ohio > 
^\'itll tlic calendar quickly marking years now that w'c refer to graduation, we might do well to take a few minutes to survey our efforts towards what •We have personally done to continue Notre ^ Dame teadiings, spirits and traditions instilled in us at tliat time. Probably the best outline one frould find to start sudi a reflection would be on ^ the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church on the campus. God, Countr>-, Notre Dame is the , simple inscription whidt carries a wealth of mean­ing for all of us. A brief or lengthy analysis of the simple word, God, should give us all sufficient mind occupying matter for limitless periods. With tlie added interest of wife and family and occupa-^ tton we have added anotlier rich source of reflec­tion under so vast a topic Country of course has received an entirely new significance to us as most ' . of us recently devoted considerable time to her { direct service. With that experience nearly com-..'J pleted, in most cases, our civilian endeavors must | be considered under the same light. Notre Dame |; affords a summation of the others, in addition to ' offering new vistas of consideration. Time could ^ be spent on this topic discussing the practical appli-^ cations of any reference to "my sdiool," but I feel ' t that these v^tiuld naturally evolve in a more indi-t. \idual and concrete manner from a personnel re- •­flection of its meaning. I might be off base on 
this whole idea, but a recent deliberation on these f 
points proved to be of immeasurable value to me. \ 
If you enjoy any results—fine, if not, we have • 
only squandered a few inches of space. j 
To prevent furtlier side-tracking and avoid the | 

62 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 
Top performers in the Hula Bowl game, Honolulu, were Paul Hornung and former Irish star tackle, Bob TonefT. Homung will graduate in June and has recently signed with the Green Bay Packers. Toneff is with the San Francisco '49*ers. Paul (second from left) received the Governor's Trophy donated by Governor King of Hawaii (extreme left) while TonefT won the Mayor's Trophy, given by Mayor Blaisdell (right) of Honolulu. Paul was 
the outstanding backBeld participant and Bob 
catastrophe of niis&ing a deadline, I had better swing into tliis stack of mail that confronts me. I might add, the \-olumc of it seems to decrease proportionately witJi the alarming increase of tlic years since graduation. Why not note my new address now and firmly resolve to drop me a line, if only to give me a hand in establisliing an address file, which has been painstakingly slow in tJic making. Christmas greetings came from quite a fc\v' for ^vhich I am grateful, a quick siunmation 
. of some of the news on them follows. Lt. (j.g.) FIL\X MEANY reports in from Long Beach with no regret that June marks ci\-ilian existence again. 
' BOB AIcGLYNN happily reports a December 8th visitor to 1542 East Swan Circle, Brentwood 17, ^to. 
- She received the title of Maureen Shannon and is Bob and Betty's second girl. TOM NOLAN is now an established civilian at 800 35th St., ' Dcs Moines, Iowa. Lt. (j.g.) GENE HOWLEY reports he enjoys a surprise assignment in Turkey. He is officially located at American Kampi, Golouk, 
j Izhit, Turklye. BILL REYNOLDS, now a single 
i civilian, is at 3240 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, 111. 
! Lt. RICH HOHMAN% Row, Rich Jr., and Susie arc at home at 1804 South Drive, Jacksonville, 
, N. C. Ricli has gone regular in the Corps, pres­ently u-ith the 20th Engineer Battalion, and of course enjoying it. LARRY and Peggy CORBETT are stationed in the same area, JACK PITTAS reports a houseful at 3337B S. Wakefield St., Arlington 6, Va. In early December, Teresa Ann joined the ranks to make it one of each for the Greek. LEE and Fran BAZ.VNY call 3457 N. Lou-­
"cll, Chicago 41, Illinois their home now after a recent release from the service. CHARLEY TOU­HEY happily announces his pending marriage in July to Miss Ann Porter of Reges College. Charles tells me LEN DURY is doing well u-ith the New jersey Telephone Company. Lt. ED LE\VIS, GAR, Helen, Sharon and ^{cgan offer Box 955, Palm Beacli, Fta., as a permanent address in view of the fact that they had no Iiint of where a Janu­ao' active duty dale would find the "oldest living '54 ROTC uninductcd graduate.** He was tr>*ing hard for JAG, offering for qualifications }xh acceptance by the Illinois and Florida Bar Associations. Ed sends . . . "TIM O'HARA mar­ried Sheila Shannon, TOM McHUGH married ida, of course. Recently had dinner witli BILL REYNOLDS, who has been sprung—so has JIM McCO.MB, J. D. MADIGAN, MICK "Colonel" .MORAN, JAMES "Kaiser III" STUBLER, and 
 achieved the same distinction in the line. 
you! You slackers left the dirty work to us old 
heroes to clean up, i.e. 0'HAR/\, ROSSHIRT, 
SPRINKLE, O'MALLEY, DOLAN, REESE and 
me (?)." 
Letter \x>lume this quarter shows the same nu­merical minuteness, but some good quality, how­ever, from the following gentlemen. BILL GUIL­FOILE still continues his steaming on the USS Snyder (DE-745), FPO, N.Y., N.Y. HU recent meeting with JOE I.MBRIACO reveals the lattcr's engagement to Miss Ann Joan Condron of Eliza­beUi, N. J. Bill tells of DAVE GILSDORF's release from the service and emplo>*ment \rith Westinghousc in Pittsburgh. PHIL BOLIN is with the advertising firm of Young and Rubican in .Vcw York. JI.\I BOESEN says that life is far more enjoyable in the desert as he starts his second year there with his wife, Kathy. They arc on that California sand at 8A-EIm Dr., MCTC 29 Palms, CaliL HAL REILLY sends the follOTving from 231 Fairbanks Ave., Staten Island 6, NCTV York. "Just a fe%v lines to let you know how the Eastern contingent is making out. GEORGE MORESCO is still in the Marines in San Diego. He is to be married on January* 6lh to Miss Theresa Guido. CRVRLES KRYWT is with the Brooklyn Union Gas Company and is to be mar­ried to Miss Maria Ann Malone on February 9th. I was engaged last month to Claire Dobbin and we plan to be married on the I8th of May. At pres­ent LOU MAFFEI and I are rooming together in our third year at Georgetown Medical School. The following classmates are setting a tough pace for us: FRAN DONOVAN, TO.M NEUMAYER, KARL WEINEKE, ERNIE MAHER, JOHN MALFA and 
JIM WATERS." Lt. (j.g.) MATT MALISON can be reached at Box 50, .\a\y 214, NCF, FPO New York, N. Y. Matt reports ... " BUNKY CONNOR has left the Marines and the East and will probably study law at home in Kansas City. Lt. DICK HULL married Marie Bogard Mycr of Norfolk in October, and they reside in New York City, where he is in charge of Marine Officer Procurement. MARSHALL DESMOND and Annie, now of Ida, Mich., added another daughter, Sharon Marie, in July, which was Marianne's first birth­day. Marsh is at the high scliool, tcacliing an English class which is swiftly becoming legend, fToacIiing j-v football, and driving a scjiool bus, all this in addition to nights at Toledo Law. JOE IMBRIACO is in his last year at Har\-ard Law. JACK M.ANNION and Kay, with Uie Air Force in Hawaii, were September parents of twins, mag­nificently named Midiael Aquinas and Patrick Au* gustine. JUSTIN McDONOUGH is kicking be-t^v'een Catholic U. drama, summer stock, and New York on a budding theatrical career. JIM CON­LEY and the former Jane Harris of Terrc Ibute were blessed with Kate in August; Jim is workii^ for the go%-emment in Washington, at the same time trying to keep the two-party-system intact. YATES HAFNER, in Chicago, was the last heard to be engaged to Miss Gail Conmy of River For­est. Lt. AL SU^VALSKY, USMC, is an ordnance officer in Okinawa, which he says Isn't acttially so bad, and whei« SKIP DOYLE and KEN PATIER­SON arc presumed to be, also Marine Corps lieu­tenants." ^ 
"I expect-to be here until the summer of '58, \vhich will also mark the end of a thus far mvard-. ing Navy hitcb, unustui as that may sound. The job isn't dull, my first year and a half was in Washington, and Morocco affords Europe as a place to spend leave." 
BILL MAYER reports in from Hq Btry, 220th AAA Bn.,"Ft. Stewart, Georgia. He says that £t Ifwks as if his two-year tenure will be spent right in that swamp where he is the battalion finance clerk. JACK R05SHIRT sent a much awaited letter vnth some long expected information, he and Miss Alana Moynahan arc going to be married on the 9th of February in LaGrange, Illinms. Jack reports on the follou-ing: DAN HAMMER, JIM DURKIN and TOM KELLEY have finished their military duties and are enrolled at the Notre Dame La^v School. TOM McHUGH ts head footbaU coach at Toledo Catholic Central High Schoi^, while PAT LALLY is working towards an ad­\-anccd degree in English at school. Jack is pres­ently teaching Business Law at school waiting for an April military call. JOE JOYCE is associated with HoIIiday, Miller, Myers and Stewart, Attor­neys in Des Moines. He reports the good fortune of being recently engaged to Miss Dona StJiiap­pacasse of South Bend with wedding plans being laid for Notre Dame on July 6th. PAT CARRICO is now working in his home town, Louis\'ilIe. 
When JUSTIN L. MORAN married Carol Gra­ham on October 6, it was an all Notre Dame-St. Mary's affair. The bride is a 1955 St. Mary's graduate, JIM MOR.-\N, the best man, is a '56 Notre Dame alumnus, ^vhile the bridesm:ud Joan Nolan graduated from St. Mary's in 1955. J.AMES 
R. GRAHAM, JR., usher, is a 1952 Notre Dame graduate, the mother ' of the bride, %frs. J. R. Graham, graduated from St. Mary's in *27, A c father of the bride, J. R. GRAHAM, is a 1926 Notre Dame alumnus, and the solist at the ^(ass, TON'Y DONADIO, is a 1942 Notre Dame graduate. 
ART HUNTER is named as one of the key men in a drive to rebuild the Cleveland Brmvns to\vard winning wa>-s. Art joined the club late in the season after completing his military obligations. Dr. HENRY G. FAIRBANKS, who received his doctoral degree from Notre Dame in the Humani­ties Division in *54 is Chairman of the Humani­ties Division of St. Michaels College, Winooski, Vermont. The St. Michael's seniors will dedi­cate tlie 1957 edition of their yearbook to Dr. Fairbanks. This honor comes "in recognition of the contribution by Dr. Fairbanks to the Development of the minds and spirits of the students during his 10 years at St. Michael's." Dr. FRANK J. \VAGONER, who received his Ph,D. from Notre Dame in 1954, has joined the staff of the Physics Division, Midwest Research Institute in Kansas City, NIis<ouri. Dr. Wagner taught mathematics at Notre Dame from 1950 through 1954. 
That rapidly exhausts my supply of facts and figures to date. We seem to be shrinking in space, a situation only you can help me to remedy. 
IQC C L t (j.g.) Thmnas F. O'MaUcy 
• '^ ^ 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, \ f issouri 
As the Christmas story relates, I feel like a peddler just opening my pack. However, I guar­antee that I don't shake like a bowl full of jelly. Out of my pack tumble seasons greetings from many of tlie old classmates and it certainly was good to hear from all of you. I appreciate your taking the time to drop me a line when you all were busy spending money to complete that never-ending Christmas list. If anyone can help me, I would appreciate the name of a reliable loan com­pany in die Kansas City area. 
In answer to many requests, I am now prepared to tell you what I'm doing with the Na\y in the middle of Kansas. For the last.year I Iia%'e been stationed at th^ U. S. Naval Air Station, Olathe, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 63 
Richard Thomas Cobb, '54, is a wandering electronics magician. Dick, on the right, is one of six young men in the Public and Employee Relations Sconce of the General Electric Company now demonstrating the "House of Magic" show. This show presents scientific demonstrations in a showmanlike manner to high school students across the country. Cobb, shown with his teammate, Edward W. Dowdle of Madison, AVis., will tour the midwestem section of the United States until spring. 
Kansas, whicli is appro.\iinatel>' twenty miles from Oklahoma button. DAVE METZ sends a card and my home in Kansas City. I Iiold titc title of Post indicates that he can be readied by t*Titing to Excliangc Ofliccr whicli covers a multitude of sins. CAR DIV 3 STAFF, FPO, San Francisco, Calif. The Na\y wanted lo station me in tlie immediate By the way, if any of you v.'rile to Ensign Metz, Kansas City aica, but never haN-ing been to Olathe, tell him that Lieutenant (j.g.) O'MALLEY gave I though that 1 would see a little of the world you his address. JIM &\HILL forwards his re­before I retired. The view is glorious! gards frt>m New London, Conn., where he U sta­
On with ttie class news, and the following names 

tioned with the Na\-\% DICK BURKE sent a card and comments come from the Christmas cards tliat 
from Chicago where he is attending law scliool. I received. TED LAUGHLIN sends a card from 
Congratulations lo PHIL STUMP and his wife on Wasbington, D. C, where he is still studying at the birth of a daughter, Joanne. The baby
 was Georgetown Medical Scliool, From the USS Kaas 
born on December 3rd. Phil will be stationed at comes greetings from GEORGE SHELTON and 
Chanutc Air Force Base, Illinois, until sometime I'm waiting to receive word that George will 
in Fcbruarv. From the USS Hancock I received make the Na\->* his career. Once lliey get a taste 
greetings t'rom PHIL SHERIDAN who indicated, of that sea dut>', thc>''rc in for sure. Word como 
on a picture of the ship, just exactly wlierc his from JACK SORANNO that he is enjoying his 
quarters arc located. I hear that tliese new ball stay on Guam and has even found time to help 
point pens write under water, Phil. Tri* one! coach the Na\-y football team on the island. Write 
JOHN HOBBS writes from Chicago where he is again when you have time. Jack, because it's ­
vacationing with the Army. Apparently all remains always good to hear from you. Received a card 
well in the Windy City. To end my list of Christ­from ROY BELKNAP and his wife Maureen. Roy mas tidings, PETE SUTHERLAND writes from is presently with tlic Nav\' in Newport, R. I. 
Detroit and relates that PHELrVN THOMPSON, FRANK CUNNINGH.\M sends a from ED BORUS, and he have just graduated from Na\y 
 card Bay­onnc, Nc%v Jersey, where he will spend his time 

Officers* Candidate Scliool in Newport, \VeIcomc until the Na\y releases him in June. Counting to the fleet! the days, Frank? I'll save you tlic trouble. There 
JI.M a\NTRILL writes to tell me that he mar­arc only 150 sliort ones left. If you want the ried the former Miss Barbara Russell last June in minutes^ just drop me a postcard and I'll let you Boston and that they expect to have a pocket-know by return mail. LEE CREAN sends regards size Cantritl sometime in April. Congratulations to from Los Angeles to say that the weatlier is fine Jim and his Mrs. He also mentions that he is but he yearns for the Indiana climate. Can you studying for his Ph.D. in Chemistry* at M.I.T. 
blame him? From Mather Air Force Base, Cali­and that he would like to get in toucli with NORM fornia, I received season's greetings from BILL HIPSKIND. Can anyone help? How about you. 
STOUTENBURCH, who is busily engaged in seeing Norm? Jim's address is 52 Mass. Ave., Cambridge that something is done according to Air Force 39, Mass. I received a letter the other day that regulations. AVhat it is, I liave no idea so you began with the words, "Yep, it's Fred." Of had better write and let me in on the news. Bill. 
course it was none other tlian FRED MAROON, Still no news from WALT DANDOE who hasn*t who had drifted into the \vi\A blue yonder and been seen since he entered Kewpic's wearing an hadn't been Iieard from since graduation. Fred 

made up for lost time by reporting that JOE NxVSSIF had been drafted into the Naw and was going to apply for Officer's Candidate SchooL Fred is to receive his wings at Ellington Air Force Base in Houston and from ihcrc wiW be sent to Mather Air Force Base in Sacramento, Calif. He asks that anyone in that area be sure to look him up. P.AT McGANN is also at Ellington AFB and will receive his wings shortly. R^VLPH GUGLIELMI and DAN SHASi^OS visited Ellington with the Boiling AFB football team. Boiling's team met the Ford Hood eleven in the Shrimp Bowl in Gal­veston, Texas. 
I received a call ftwm HAL WILLENBORG the other night as he ^*•as passing through Kansas City on his way home for the holidays. Hal is stationed aboard the USS E. F. Larson (DDR­830), FPO San Francisco, Calif., and says that he enjoys it very raucli. He seems to be getting the short-timer's attitude now that he only has eighteen months left to serve. So that's a short time? Ahoy OWEN SODETZ! Good to hear from you. Owen w'ritcs that he too is a Na\"al draftee and has been since Dcccuiher of *55. He lias been trans­ferred to the USS Randolph and is now a third class petty officer. He mentions that BRUNO "Doc" SAVICZ has been working for General Motors Electromotive Division in LaCrange, Illi­nois, since September 1953 and is doing very well in the accounting department. JOHN McCUL-LOUGH is working in the armed forces radio sta­tion at Sangley Point in the Philippine Islands. John was drafted into tlie Na\y in November of 1955. From Norfolk, Virginia, and the USS Tlg­rone (SSR-4I9) come greetings from JOHN 0'ME^\Rj\. He should be stationed there at least for the next fe%v' months so anyone in that area drop in and say hello. If I happen to get down that w-ay, JBIIU, we'll sit around and tell sea stories. BILL KREPS finally sent the details of his mar­riage and relates that he married the former Miss Margaret Donahue on the 28th of July. Bill is aboard the USS Leader and is now making a tour of the Far East. ~ He plans to return to the Slates sometime in April. The news to follow is from Bill's letter. 
ROCCO TANNONE is with the "Savy in Japan. From the looks of tilings, I think tliat a suggestion to hold the class reunion in the Far East would be well received. Tliink of all the '55 grads that could save transportation. BERNIE TR/VCEY has also been in Japan but left recently for home on the USS Feclitcler. His home port is Long Beach, Calif. CHUCK NAJJAR is attending Ala­bama Law School but shouldn't have too mncli longer to go. JOE KEiVRNEY is holding down the job of damage control offtccr aboard tlic VSS Pas­sumpsic. Li\RRY BREHL writes again from the USS M.-u:on (CA-132) FPO, New York, N. Y., and continues to send many items in the way of class news. He has been seeing the Mediterranean and his ship should return to the States sometime in early Fcbruarv'. He advises any grads, that plan to tour tlic Med, to take ad\'antage of the many bargains that are a\'ailabtc in perfume, silver, cliina, and crystal. It seems that the savings are fabulous. Larry mentions going on shore Hbertv with JACK WILHOrr and JOHN CHOME.\U who arc both officers aboard the USS Coral Sea. BOB MOORE married the former Miss Abigail FoIe>* and lhc>' arc now making their home in Texas. Bob is reportedly working for Shell Oil Co. FRANK FLORIAN is studying at Carnegie Tecli in Pittsburgh. DON BURKHART finished a tour of duty in the Pacific and is now going to Submarine School at New hondotty Conn. JI.M SHERER is now studving law at Toledo (Ohio) University. During his spare time, Jim also holds the job of the University's sports publicity director. Larry itnds his letter by mentioning that his ship will be in the South Annex of the Boston Naval Shipyard and if anyone knows of DAVE COHEN's whereabouts, send him aboard. 
LEO McEVOY, formerly assistant track coach at N.D., was recently appointed to a similar post at Columbia University. JAMES SIEGER is now doing graduate work for a master's degree in the Department of Cinema at the University of South-em California. aVRROLL DOWDEN is now a stair member of the news bureau for Indiana Uni­versity. BUTCH VALLACE is still at Fordham Law Scliool and is also coaching the line for St. Mary's High Scliool team in Grcenwicli, Conn. Lead on, Coacli! Dr. ROBERT CONVERY rc­ccndy Joined the staff of DuPont's Polycfiemicals Department rcseardi division as a chemist at the experimental station in Wilmington, Delaware. An invitation was received to the marriage of CHARLEY LUCKETT and Miss Margaret Ap­
64 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar.y 1957 
pino on Uie 10th of November. Congratulations and best wishes to them bolb. I have a request for information on JIM PITC/WAGE and TOM ROGERS. How about it, men, Dink wants to know where you arc. PETE BEIRIGER is working with North American Aviation in Los Angeles. JOE TOXINI Writes front Freeport, Illinois, where he is employed as a methods engineer with ilic Micro Switcli Corp. He passes along the information tJiai RON MAKOWSKI is studying at the Chr>-slcr Institute and will receive his master's degree ncNt year in Automotive Engineering. Maybe this is tlic boy to talk to about tlic rattles in my '32 Dodge. Smashing atoms as fast as they can manufacture them wc find BILL YARIO who is employed at the Argonne National Laboratory In Chicago. CHUCK O'BRIEN is working in Milwaukee for the quality control department of the AUis-Chalmers Corp. GENE LUND was last seen at Whiting Field in Florida. No weatlicr problem there. Information is requested on PAT MORG/\N% JOHN MUSO­LINO, and FRANK WHITE. Anyone having the scoop, please write and fill me in. Better yet, as I alu-ays say, why don't the people concerned drop mc a line and pass on some additional news. 
I've received word that LEO C.\LL/\GHf\N is in Japan with the Marines and would like to receive some class news first band from some ot }m old cohorts. To whom it may concern, his address is as follows: 2nd Lt. Leo P. Callaghan 0686G4, "A" Co., Ist Bn., 3rd Marines, 3rd Marine Div. (Re­inf.) F.ALF., c/o FPO, San Francisco. Calif. ED HUGHES Sends Xa\*al greetings from Japan where he is working u-ith the military security group. He mentions meeting many '55 grads in the area and passes along mucho information. FR/\NK CONK­LIN is aboard a carrier in the Pacific and from what I hear, he was quite instrumental in enabling his ship to receive an cllicicnc\- award recently. Alas, the island of Guam has not only become a refuge for Jack Soranno, as mentioned before, but also for JERRY HILLISMAN who is there with his wife and working in the Accounting Department for the Air Force. TED BIN*TZ Is married and is the proud father of a son. Ted is in the Air Force but I haven't heard where he is stationed. JERRV PRv\SSAS is soon to receive bh wings in multi-engin<- aircraft at an Air Force base in Vance, Oklalioma. The /\rmy claims PAT McNAMAR.\ and has him stationed somewhere in California. By the way, Pat, was that you I saw dancing to the "champagne music" of L. Wclk? CHUCK CJVDWELL is still in law school at Michigan and RICH MCDONAL D continues the work at George­town ^ledical School. I'm now convinced that the Navy gets the cream of the crop as I received worti from FRED ECKART that he received his commission as an Ensign on Oct. 11 at the Officer's Candidate School in Newport, Fred will stay at Newport for a few months and then will be trans­ferred to the VSS Bcnninston (CVA-20) to con­tinue his government financed world tour. He 
- mentions that FRED GALIONE. JACK .MURPHY and TOM WELLY also received their commis­sions. Any doubt about the superiority of the Xav\- now? If so, take it up with anyone in the Air Force and the>''Il tell you the same thing. If there are people who still disagree, write me and let nic know. (I'll do anything to get class news.) 
From the Na\-al Air Station at Quonset Pt.. Rhode Island, PAUL MARBACH sends word that he received his Navy wings on the I7th of Augiist and is getting a big kick out of the whole pro­gram. Congratulations, Paul, and if you get a chance, be sure to stop in at N/\S Olathe, We'll keep the coffee warm. He also mentions that OWEN DUGAN is Supply Officer of the squadron. DON McKENZIE is a lieutenant in the x\rniy and is 5er\7ng with the United Nations Command .Mili­tary Armistice Commission in Panmunjom, Korea. JIM GRIFFIN is a 2nd Lieutenant in the Marine 
' Corps and is stationed at Camp Lcjeune, North Carolina. Jim marrird the former Miss Eileen 
. Hcnnessy on the 15th of September. Congratula­tions and best wishes to them both. MIKE CUL­LINAN writes from Houston, Texas where he is emploved with the Gulf Petroleum Co. He men­tions having attended TO.M AR.MSTRONG's wed­ding when he and the former Miss Mar>- Ellen MacDonald were married in Lafayette, Indiana. Congratulations and best wishes arc certainK* in 
.order here also. TO.M GALLIGAX, TO.M aVREY, and JIM BARRY were also able to attend the ceremonies. Rumor has it that GEORGE GIST " is soon to be transferred to Randolph Field in San Antonio. JERRY BURNS is still at Randolph work­ing for his wings. FRED THOM/VS is aboard the USS YeHowstonc and has .Vewpnrl as a home port. 

From El Caucliero, S.A., Apartado 172, El Tigre, BOB DEBREY dropped me a very ncw3y note Estado Anzoategui Venezuela, I received word from and mentions that he is working for the General L/\NNY CHESKY who has found a home down Electric Co. in Schenectady, N. Y. By the time south. He *vrites that he is enjoying his business that tills column is In print. Bob will be spending ventures in the country and might make his stay some time with Uncle Sam as he goes into the there a permanent one. Lanny mentions that PAUL Army on November 2nd. His tour ^v^U be for only M^\NSFIELD is teaching math at a school near six months and then back to designing "progress" his home in Saratoga, N. Y. for G.E. BILL FEURY is working for ^Vcstlng-
FR/VNK BURKE and his wife Ann write that 

house in Jersey City and plans to be married after they are now living in Norfolk, Va., while Frank 
a six month tour of duty in the Army. BOB 5cr\'es aboard the USS Wisconsin (BB-64). I have 
MOORE married a former Su Mary's belle in your address, folks, and I'll get one of these Pittsburgh on October 29th and they plan to liv«i in Olathe pilots to fly mc down there yet. Leave a 
Orange, Texas, where Bob will work with DuPont. candle burning in tlic ^vindow. Finally I get some 
BILL McCULLOUGH and his wife are living in more Army news from TOM MAY who is sta­Palo Alto, CaliL DON HATZ has also gone the tioned at Ft. Lewis, Washington. Tom has been 
way of al! good single men and he and his wife will there since December of '55 and says that it rains 
soon move south where Don ^vill hold down a posi' more in that area than it did back in Indiana's 
tion with Nortli American Aviation. BILL BONDE land of the free and home of the brave. He 
has recently married a girl from South Bend but included quite a bit of class news so I'll pass it 
I don*t have any names, dates, or places. JIM along. DICK BEE.M.-VN is also stationed at Ft. 
GRAFF is working with the Bell Telephone Co^ in Lewis and he and his %vife arc now the proud par­New Jersey. Any possibility of a reduction in long ents of new David. distance rates for die '55 grads, Jiro? JAY LAUE 
a baby boy, Congratulations! Dick works in the Public Information Office and 

is w-orking with the design department of the Ford has beeJi doing some radio work. ED SCHICKLER 
^^oto^ Co. in Detroit. As always, PAUL FULL­and his wife arc living in Seattle while they wait MER, keeps me well supplied with information. for that tour of obligated Naxy service to expire. 
Paul is still writing % sports fuilumn for the Aurora DICK RUWE u-as at Ft. tewis recently but has 
"Bcacon-Ncu-s** and I was able to get a look at been transferred to Alaska. TOM QUINN and 
one that opncemcd the troubles of the ND foot­TIM NORTON have also been at the Fort during ball eleven. I must say diat he does a fine job tlic past few months but have now been transferred 
of reporting and his comments were accurate and elsewhere. .MICK MELVIN, FRED BIMROSE and 
interesting. He may be a good bet for the next TO.M HfCKEY have all become proud papas re­
class secretary job. JOHN SLAVICK, who had cently. Thanks for all the nc%vs, Lt. May, and be been studying in Germany with a Fullbright Schol­sure to write again when you have time. 
arship, has now returnrxl to the States. NEAL 

Dr. Edward L. Kropa (nght), chief chemical consultant at the Battellc Memorial Institute, Columbus, Ohio, lectured on the new scientific field of psychochemistry at Notre Dame. Here he is Avith Dr. G. F. D'AIelio, head of the chemistry department. Kropa and his associates, who have developed drugs which can induce hallucinations and even insanity, arc studying the effects of certain chemicals on the brain in the hope of producing a compound which will relieve mental iUncss. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy Feb.-AIar., 1957 65 
David Ix;igh Karnath (center), Kenmore, N. Y, (136 Fairbanks Avenue), receives the Borden Prize, a S200 award, from Rev. Charles Shccdy, CS-C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Kamath is the first recipient of the award %vhich was establbhcd by the Borden Company Foundation, Inc., New York City, for presentation to the Notre Dame freshman viith the highest average in his class. His average for his freshman year was 96.5%, nearly two points higher than his nearest competitor. Witnessing the presentation is Rev. Richard IVIurphy, G.S.C. (seated), director of admissions at Notre Dame. 
HALLORAN and his wife Barbara arc now living an Littleton, Mass., foIlo%«ng their marriage in Chicago. Xcal is a 2nd Lt. in the Army and will probably be transferred soon. CHUCK COLLINS recently returned to Chicago /rom duty -with the Navy in the Pacific and became engaged to Miss Kathy KJlcy. JIM BIGELOW js stationed %vith the Army in Germany. TONY PASQUESI is back playing football with the Cardinals. JOE SWIFT is still hitting the books at Georgetoi\*n Medical School and JOE DALEY falls \-ictim to tlie grind at Yale Laiv School. IR\'^ CARRIG is doing gradu­ate work at the University of Chicago. ED KEL­LEY married tlic former Miss Roberta Marie Bar-nm' on Januar>' 12th in Rockwood, Mich. Ed is still holding forth as the Naxy Excliangc OfHccr at the Naval Air Station, Gro&se He, Miclu Con­gratulations and all that sort of stuff to both of them. From RON RENE, the general in charge of improvements for the army, comes a billet-doux about the jiappcnings at Fort Hood, Texas. He passes along tlie news that he is engaged to marr>* Afiss Betty Bcrtrand sometime next August. Con­gratsf DICK COOKE is stationed with tJic Air Force in San Angelo, Texas. GENE LUND is, or was, slauoncd at BeKille, Texas. PAT MOR­GAN is also with the Air Force down panhandle way. JACK PINTER is also engaged to be mar­ried next August and the bride will be Miss Liz Griffin. Jack and Ron will alternate in tlie role of'best man. Two falls out of three will dcdde the winner. ED DARGIS sends a card from Ger­many where he is stationed witli the Army. JOE MADIGAN married the former Miss ^farilyn Haus­scr on June I6th. He was drafted into the Army in No\'cmbcr and wliile a civilian, he was sports reporter for tJic Cleveland "News." TOM BOSSE was married on August 18th to the former Miss Barbara Kircliner. He is working at the Cleve­land **Press" and also completing work on Ins master's degree in English at John Carroll Uni­versity. JACK GUTHRIE is engaged to Miss Judy Curran and is teaching in a Cleveland High School. GREG McCORMACK is %%ith the Army some*vherc in Germany, Received a card from GUY PIERCE, his wife Pat, and their daugliter Joannie. Guy is the Nav>* Exdiange Officer at the Na\-al .Ammunition Depot in Red Bank, N. J. 
I was fortunate enough to get away for a few days to attend the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game and I ran into quite a few of the lads of 'o5. Things were bleak in Mudvillc that day but the lisiting I did after the g^ame seemed to make the trip worthwiiilc. I flew up to the Naval Air Sta­tion at Glenview, III., where I met JOHN HAM­ILTON. John is in the Supply Department there and seems to enjoy his work. We then drove to Soutit Bend and arri\'cd just before game time. Since I only had an old dining hall card to write on, I wasn't able to record a lot of ne^vs but I'll pass on the names and nei\'s that I remember. BILL WALSH is attending CIC school at Glen­view Naval Air Station. JOHN CLEMENCY is on recruiting duty with the '^a.vy in Chicago. DON LANSPA is in the Army and stationed at Fort McPhcrion in Atlanta, Ga. TOM PET­TERSCH is still with the Navy in tlic Nax-al Air Station, Grosse lie, Micli. JIM WELTZIEN is spending some time in the Na\y also but I don't remember where he's stationed. BOB GOSDICK is still in law scliool at Northwestern. Other faces in the crowd were GENE SCHMIDT, BOB DAH­LEN, RON SMITH, TOM GALLIGAN, and CARL PETERS. 
, Well, gentlemen, that should just about take care of tlie news for another few months. I cer­tainly appreciate the help that j-ou'vc given me and it seems that the amount of letters that I receive are increasing each time. To those who have never written, it*s not too late because I'm always glad to hear from '>-ou and I'm sure tliat your classmates would like to hear of your adven­tures since graduation. If any of you hit on ideas for class projects, he sure to pass tliera along. Until next time, I leave you with this thought. *'Tliink twice before you speak .. . especially if you intend to say what you think." 
• ^ No. 2 Dromara Road Ladue 24, Missouri 
It seems as thougli the class of '56 -is the pos­sessor of se\-eral Earl 'Wilsons—and rather than 
i
abridge their informative letters I will pass them on to you as I received them. 
A very welcome letter headed Owens-Coming 

Fiberglas Corporation, arrived here from JERRY 
HIGGINS (2563 Fulton St., Toledo 1. Ohio): 
'*Just finished reading the last issue of the Alum­

nus and so enjoyed hearing about all the old gang 
that I decided that maybe I could fill in a fe^v 
empty spots. 
"First of all. Old Higgle has had the chance to cover a good portion of the eastern part of the country working for Fiberglas. In my traveling, I've run into se\'eral of our classmates and hope to see many more before Uncle Sam gets me. A Week after graduation I started working in To­ledo for Fibci^Jas; then oflT two weeks to marry Margaret Nturphy (Commerce Ball Queen, *53) on July 7 with JIM GWINNER and GEORGE BROUSSARD as part of tlie wedding party. Jim's now in St. Louis with McDonnell Aircraft and living with George, who is li-orking for Shell Oil. They have a place in Alton, III. (520-.\ Eaton St.) After the wedding back to Toledo and finally Hart­ford, Conn. Tlierc I ran into DICK CARROLL (Tech Review) who is newly married and working for Kaman Helicopter. JOHN KELLY came over for a weekend from G.E.'s home office in upper Sew York. Also, ran into GEORGE HESS on a golf course Outside of Providence, R. I. (I was hunting for my ball as he casually hit through.) In Toledo TOM QUINN and bis parents have made u^ really feel at home. Tom is working for Iligbeo Dept. Store in Cleveland. JOE KALBAS is now working for General Tire's Plastic Divi­sion Jicre in Toledo. MARTLV McGVULEY is working for one of my competitors in Industrial Relations, L.O.F. Glasfibers, Inc. ROGER OS­WALD is still In Toledo with a local accounting firm and also un-bacliclorlzed. 
"Last weekend (Nov. 17, 1956) I had my first chance to sec the Irish in person and picked tlie right game. &iw KEN DAVIS and LARRY BARTH there . . . they arc rooming together In Chicago— Ken is with G.E. and Larry for Motorola. DARYL EARTLY and his new wife seem to make most of the games from Gar>' tvherc Dave is working for Youngslown Sheet and Tube. 
" 'TIS enough for now. Say hello to cverj'one in St- Louis." 
JOE O'CONNOR (9205 SouUi Oakley, Chicago 20, III.) was able to tear himself from the histology and gross anatomy long enough to %\Tile, 
"I am enjoying medical scliool a lot, but cer­tainly miss the amcruni of sleep I became accus­tomed to at N.D. Tliat and the 2 hours I spend driving to and from scliool arc my only complaints. The other med students from our class arc DICK HENDRICKS, ANGELO aVPOZZI, PAUL COL­LIG.\N, FRANK DEGA, JOE DiLALLO, FR.\NK DWAN, BOB LECHOWSKI, ARMAND RIGAUX and BOB STECKBECK, Also In the sophomore class arc JOHN COMITO, JOHN DWYER and FRANK CICCIARELLI. 
"MARK BURNS and JOE CLINE are statlon-rd in Clilcago as salesman trainees for IBM. 
"I saw GENE BREXN.AN's brother, Tom, at the Chicago Club Tlianksgiring Dance and he said Gene is begging for mall (A.O.C. Eugene Brcnnan, U.S.N.R., Class 39-56-B, Batl. I, U. S. Naval School Pre-Flight, Pensacola, Fla.) CHET MITCH­ELL is engaged to Janet Ippolito and plans to be married on May 25. 
"Jane and I arc still conntins the days until June 29 rolls around—only 213 to go. "Well, Al, that's all from the Windy City. Best of luck—Joe." From Fort Benning, Ga. (a resort where the 
U. S. Army executives spend leisure summers and peaceful winters) HENRY DIXON (2nd Lt. Hcnr>­Dixon, 2Ist Co., T,S.B., Fort Benning, Ga.) says, 
"Right now I'm in the Infantry school here and will start Airborne training shortly after Christmas. ROGER PRICE, DON MAEDER, JOHN PIT­TARESSI and ED SEXAUER arc stationed with the troop units on post. John is now a proud papa. • 
"Spent somo time at the Nav^il Supply School at Alliens, Ga., where many of the grads have, been stationed. PAUL BERRITINI, BERN KOSSE, BOB McGOLDRICK, CHUCK VAN­DERGRIFT, ROLLIE BERNHOLDT, JOHN LENIHAN, DENNY MALAK, CHUCK DOHER­TY and DICK ALLISO.V were among tiie brethren who departed for the open seas. 
"At Athens is the Univ. of Georgia and these fellows arc taking full adv*antage of the situation.* Lt. BOB ANDREWS, ASAF, has been spending some time there too. Ens. JOHN ENGLER Is on_. duty In the Atlantic Remember MARTY (Mottie) WIGGINS? He was with us for two years (Zalim and Lyons Halls)—now married and attending the Law Scliool at the Univ. of Georgia. 
66 Noire Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Mar., 1957 

Tliat's about all from here—1 hope lo hear from more fellows soon and will pass along all the infor­mation. Best regards—Hank." 
A lodge situated on 56,560 picturesque acres is the origin of another letter. Although only 35 miles below Washington, D. C , Quantico is cer­tainly- not a governmental playground. BRUCE BROW'N (2nd Lt. B. Brown, US.MC, 071429, "H " Co., 4-56BC, Basic Course, Quantico, Va.) verifies this: 
**Aftcr reading your last column in the Xovcmbcr .-\lumnus, I figured it was about time someone informed you about the poor suffering souls at Quantico—land of sunshine, balmy breezes, and beautiful women (chuckle-chuckle). 
*'To start in numerical order of Basic Courses; in the third course arc HAL ALWAN, CHARLIE CONWAY, TOM CURR.\N. JOHN BRODERICK, CHARLIE DUR.VND. DAVE FRISKE, JACK GAIDO, JLM McCLAY, DAX McL.\UGHLIN, LARRY FARMER, BILL MARKLEY, MIKE MULROONEY, a\RL ROHLOFF, FRANK TO­NINI, FRANK WHITTON and TOM TOOMEY; in the fourth class, along with mvself, arc GERRY SPAETH and PAT 0'MALLEY;'in the fifth class arc MATTY MORAN and GILLES GALLANT. 
"Most of us are single but there arc those non­confonuisis: GERRY SPAETH was married June 16 and will be a fatlicr in March; on October 6 Carl Rohloff married Marilyn Lcc of South Bend; Charlie Durand has a baby daughter as docs Gillcs Gallant. 
"Among those of the Class of '56 that are about to become 2nd Lts. US.MC are ROB O'CONNOR, JOHN FANNON and DICK MERKLE. Of those ^vhom I met in Washington were MIKE KILEY, JOE BILL and JOE SPEIGEL—all studying larv­al Georgetoivn." 
SID WILKIN has just completed eight weeks of basic training at Fort Dix. .N. J. MIKE LESSO and MARTY DEVERE.\UX were with him ihere. Sid says that "BILL SQUIRES was going through his processing at the Reception Center at Fort Dix; and in Tulsa. JERRY SWEENEY is dictating let­t*'rs to beautiful sccrrtarivs at the Warren Petrol­eum Company." 
It seems as thouyli the majority of Notre Dame's '56 men have been migratinj? to Army Centers around the country. Headed for Fort Bliss, Tex:is was BOB ^VELSH (2nd Lt. R. U'.. A.A.A. and 
G.M. School, Box 9457) whom I had the pleasure of sei'iny and being host lo in Si. Louis, After arriving at Ft. Bliss, Bob wrote: 
"I finally made it to the land of sunshine. IIa%'i* been running into a lot of classmates here—PAUL BEREZNY, JIM HIGGINS and DAVE GRANGER. Just like homecoming in a vcr\' round about way." JI.M BRENNAN, now an ensign (B.O.Q. Marc t' Island. Vallejo, California) is among the ser\'ice­nien of our class. Also in the Xa\-\- and stationed [ in Japin is ED MADDEN (Ens.. E.B.^^. I' CO.M.V.WFE Staff. .V-57, FPO. San Francisco, 
, Calif.). 
K L.ARRY WITHUM (I63-A Fifth St., Fords, 
j N. J-). a father in February, is working for the .' Continental Insurance Company of New York. He tells me that JOHN LINEH^VN is engaged to Katli­|. erine Frost of South B-nd. Braving the blizzards f and monsoons. GORDON Di RE.VZO has returned to the Halls of h y and Father Sorin in order to do graduate work in sociolos>'. I have much gossip to r p3Ns on—we're waiting. Gordie." [ An ApDlogy: In the last issue of the Notre Dam-i Alumnus I failed lo mention that Rr\Y LEMEK i bad been appointed assistant coach (under TOM ' C/\REY) of Chicago .Mt. Carmel football team. If you happen to go through Honolulu in the ; near future, stop in the Surf Rider Hotel. FRAN­CIS OWENS has launched bis musical career there as pianist. 
The New York Stock Exchange recently got a new "youngest member." He is TOM COLE­MAN. Congratulations, Tom (it's niv turn to buy 'you a drink). PETE STURTEVANT, recipient of a Rool-Tildcn Law Scholarship, has completed his .first semester at New York University School of Law. JOE BILL infonns mc that the afi<:rnoon naps and evening tripi to Chester's are out of tUe question—"Law School (Georgetown) is rough . . ." All through our senior year MIKE MOONEY (sociologist, music lover and philosopher) had his 'sights set on continuing education in Europe. He was more tfian willing to cast aside, his hi-fi set and ,thc other luxuries of 328 Alumni for this trip— little did he realize the future. Mike toured the conlin?nt for a month and then entered the 
"Insliiut of European Studies In Vienna, Austria, to study music. Let us quote the Indianapolis **News" of November 6: 
".Mike's studies have been intermpted periodically 
since he arrived in Vienna, near the Hungarian 
border. 
"In a letter to his parents, Mike wrote on 
October 30: 'Imagine watching history being made 
right before your vcr>- eyes. 
'Last Sunday I drove over to Hungary with Mr. 
Koutny (a university professor) and four Aus­
trian students to deliver food and medical supplies 
to the revolutionary forces­
'Wc had three cars (two In a car) filled with food and supplies that had been sent from Germany. We were to deliver tliem about 65 miles inside Hungary-. It was relatively safe because the Rus­sians were pulling back at the time. U'hen we got there wc were told that about 300 Russian tanks were there about 8 hours before us. Rather glad I missed them. 
'When wc arrived at our destination wc didn't know what to do with the supplies because evcrx*­thing was so disorganized. We couldn't find any­one in charge, so we gave the supplies to a Catholic priest. 
'Most of the revolutionists were students and Hungarian soldiers who had gone over to the nationalists. Evcr>'one was walking around with burp s"^s hanging on their shoulders and a con­fused look In their eyes. 
*I have been helping at the Red Cross Cen:»*r and gave a pint of blood. Yesterday I heard that Russian troops stopped a lot of trucks delivering blood to Budapest and dumped it all on the ground'." 
"On November 5 Mike wrote: 'Things are prc:iy black here. It's really terrible. Don't worry about nie. If you hear Russian troops have entered Aus­tria, don't bother to write or call— I won't be around. I carr>' my passport and traveler's checks at all times and am prepared to flee the country' at a moment's notice. 

'It's not that I'm afraid, but I feel that a winter in Siberia would be a bit unpleasant for one who's been accustomed to central heating all his life. 
'Mr. Koutny called us down to the Institute yes­terday. He wanted us all together in case the 1,000 Russian tanks on the border decided to cross into Austria. As it turned out things were quiet on the border and I spent the afternoon helping refugees. 
'There arc about 5,(XX) refugees in Vienna and another 5,000 in spots around the city. Most of them arc women, children and old people. There arc about 200 babies. 
'The women never expect to sec their husbands or sons again. I*m sure I'll remember this if there ever comes a time in my life when I think I have troubles'." 
A story like this certainly makes one stop and thank God for all we have here in America. Best of luck to you, Mike Mooney. 
A very common question occur? in many of your letters to mc: "Have you seen or heard from Mr. '56?" Most often the answer is "no." So begin­ning with this issue of the Alumnus I am going to select len "missing classmates" and ask you, flave vou seen or heard from: BILL WARREN, FELIX PARK, TOM DONOVAN, DAVE AUST­GEN, AL PARILLO, STEVE ROGERS, DICK LYNCH, JOHN SOWA, KARL M.ARTERSTECK or PHIL WHITE? 
My thanks to Jerry Higgins, Joe O'Connor, Hank Dixon, Bruce Brown, Sid Wilkin and all who took time to write mc. 
Well, this is all for now. I would appreciate your criticisms, suggestions, and always welcome any news you might have. 
Let me extend lo you my sincercst wishes for a happy and fruitful New Year. 
Jean Strauss (left), French consul general in Chicago, decorates Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of Notre Danic*s Mediaeval Institute, as a Chevalier of the Legioa of Honor. Witnessing the ceremony which took place at the Morris Inn is Rev. Theodore M. Hesbui^h, C.S.C, (center) president. Father Gabriel, who recently received the Thorlct Prize of the French Academy for his latest book, "Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris," was honored "for his many years of service in the interest of Frcnch-Hungarian and French-American friendship." 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-Mar., J957 67 
0{(ice 0/ iUe PieiideHt 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Midland, Texas FELLOW ALUMNI: ' Feb. 10,1957 
The record vote in the recent election of new members to the Alumni Board emphasizes your feel­ings regarding the position of this body in the sphere of Notre Dame life. The Board, reflecting your increased interest, has just completed another busy year, its work marked by progress along numerous paths. 
In the area of job placement, imder Father Lou Thornton, the massive work of consolidating infor­mation concerning availability of jobs for those alumni desiring to change or better their position is progressing. 
Under Father Murphy, enrollment, an increasingly bigger headache, has seen the development of a personal interview for each student. This is a further step to ascertain the capability of each student. Growth of scholastic stature is directly related to the qualifications of students and their ability to ex­tend the talents of the teachers. 
We have seen the growth of class activities, primarily through representation at the reunions, and the interest evidenced in the election of full lists of class officers. 
Although figures are not complete as yet, it appears that the Alumni Fund this year is the larg­est ever, amounting in total gifts in excess of $800,000—indeed a remarkable showing. The annual Foun­dation Report will be published in NOTRE DAME, March issue. However, the percentage of alumni givers has dropped slightly. The survival and progress of the private school is directly related to the support given by foundations, corporations, individuals and alumni. It seems logical that we alumni who benefited most should need little persuasion to assist our Alma Mater. 
The University, working through the Alumni Board, is endeavoring to keep the alumni growing individually by continuing their education in life through a program of adult education. This program is developing under Father John Cavanaugh. We will endeavor therein to stress that each alumnus can provide in his parish, community, and social life, an outstanding example of what Notre Dame pro­duces in the way of Christian gentlemen. 
Sincerely, 
JOSEPH I. O'NEILL^ JR. President 
(Ed. Note: With an election of new officers scheduled at the Board of Directors' winter meeting in late February, the above comments wiU compose the final "President's Letter" during Joe O'Neill's term as the leader of Notre Dame's 26,500 alumni. His splendid cooperation in the Alumni Association pro­gram far beyond the 'line of duty' merits special recognition—for these and many other services rendered by President O'NeiU the ALUMNUS extends an expression of sincere appreciation.—JC.) 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA RRCSS 









