The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

HTHE NOTRE DAME 
.n \^ ;t.O 
V.'' 
. vK\ 
Above—John Neeson, foun­der of Universal N. D. Night, receives ^kcroU in Philadelphia from Rev. Eugene P. Burke, 
C. S. C , as E, Bradley Bailey smiles approval. Below— Central observance of U.N.O. Night in Detroit. 

Universal Notre Dame Night 
MAX, 1940 No. 7 

PROGRAM 

NINETy-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT 
University of Notre Dame 
May 31. June I and 2, 1940 

(All events are scheduled on Central Stuiidunl I'iiiie.) 

Friday, May 31 

Keglstra tion of Alumni In the Alumni Ottice. Main Bulldlns (Because of the early Commencement, no rooms will be u\-ailable until Friday. May 31, on the campus.) 
Open ng of 

of the Genera,l Alumni, and the Class, Golf Tournament Play, The 18-HoIe TVilliam J. Burke - Universlti* Golf Course Reunion CI 
Classes for 1940 are: 1935 — 1930 — 1925 — 1920 — 1915 — 1910 — 1905 — 
S:00 P. ^[. 1900 — 1S95 — 1S90 
7:00 
P.M. Reunion Dinner of the 25-Year Class, Lay Faculty Dlnlnp Hooni 

7:00 
P.M. Concert, University Band, Main Quadrangle 


Reunion Dinner, the 50-Tear Class of 1S90 S:00 P.M. 
Entertainment. "Washington Hall S:30 P.M. 
Smoker of the 5-Year Reunion Class of 1935, Lay Faculty Dining Room Informal Reunion Smoker, 10-Year Reunion Class of 1930, Hall Reunion Headquarters 9:00 P.M. 

Saturday, June I 

Coutiimatlou uf Ketrlstratiun of Alumni Continuation of Alumni and Class Golf Tournanients 
9:30 A.JL Last Visit of the Class of 1940 to Sacred Heart Church (A Private Ceremony. Rev. Thomas Irving'. CS-C. presiding.) 
10:00 A.M. Class Day Exercises and Awarding- of Prizes, Washington Hall 
11:00 A.M. Softball Game, Class of 1930 vs. Class of 1935. Badin Field 
12:00 M. 15-Year Reunion Luncheon, Class of 1925, Lay Faculty Dining Room 
Baseball. Michigan State College vs. Kotre Dame, Cartler Field The Alumni Banquet — featured this year by'Most Re%'. John F. O'Hara, 2:00 P.M. 
rt:00 P. 

C.S.C, Auxiliarj- Bishop of the Army and Navy; Raymond J. Kelly. Xa­tional Commander of the American Legion; Lewis J. Murphy, National Conmiander of thf* Dis:ibled Veterans of the World War, and Verj- Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.. Acting President of tlie TJniversIiy. in a program based on the vivid living of the slogan on the Memorial Door of Sacred Heart Church. "For God. for Countrj'. and for Kotn* Dame." Prof. Clarence E. "Pat" Manlon, will ser\-t.- at Toaslmaster. 
(In the Eiist Hall of the University Dining: Halls.) ti:30 P.M. Conc«"rt by the University Band, ilain Quadrangle 
S:00 P.M. Concert by the University Glee Giub, \Vai*liington Hall 
a:0(1 P.M. Xotre Dame Smoker for All Alumni, sponsored by the Class of 1930. in the Brownson Hall Rec Room. Wai^hlngtoa Hall 

Sunday, June 2 

S:3Q A.M. .\c:vdemic Procession. Mala Building to tlu- University Gymnasium 
9:00 A.M. Solemn Pontifical Mass, University Gymnasium Music by the University Choir of ^loreau Seminary .The American Flag, presente<l to Notre Dame by the Class of 1940 nn 
Washington's Birthday, will be blessed immediately after the Mass. .\.M. Reunion Mass. Class of 1930 
11:00 .\. M. Raising of the Flag on the Main QuadniiiKh'. after a profession from tlif Gymnasium to the Flagpole 
11:15 A.M. Open Hoiise. Faculties of the Colleges (Demonstntllnn. Bi«ilogical Build­ing. Prof. Reyniers, Cljiss of 1930.) 
12:00 M. Dinner for parents of CIas.s of 1940. University Dining Halls 12:00 
>1. Monugnim Luncheon. University Dining Halls ' 2:00 V. Eleventh Annual Cnuneii. Lo<-iil .\Iumnl Clubs. Court Room. Law Buildlitc 
4:00 P.M. .\wardinB^ of DfgrtH*s t«» the CI.KSS of 1940, University G>-tnna.-'ium Commencemem .\dilr<'ss 
r'­

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ThU mngnTin* is published monthly from October to Jane, inclusive (except Janoary), by tfa« Vnivettfty of NotM 1 
NotN Dame, Indiana. Entered a> lecond clan matter October I, 1939, at the Poatoffiet, Noti* Dam*. Indiana, nsdar tfc* 
act of AoKust 24, 1912. Member of the American Almnni Gonndl and of the National Catholic Alumni PWdamtlmi. JAMES E . AKMSTKONC. 15, Eiiior; WIUJAM R. DootEY, 76, Managing EJilor 
Vol. 18. MAV. 1940 No. 7. 

Religion And Patriotism... Inseparable 
By W. J. CAMERON. Ford Motor Company 
An addrtss delivered on the ITth Annual Universal Notie I>&me Night, Monday. April IS, Before the Notre Dame Gub of Detroit, in Detroit. Michigan, and Over the National Network of the Mutual Broadcasting System Through the Facilities of Radio Station CKLW. 
Your Excellency Bishop O'Hara, Very Reverend President O'Donnell, Cler^ and Guests: 
To have part in this celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night is both a pleasure and a privilege. The honor in which your University is held for its scholastic rank, the character of its alumni and its prowess on the playing field, is so truly national in its range and proceeds so spontaneously from citizens of every name, that this occa­sion takes on the aspect of a nation-wide testimonial to the service you have rendered education and good citizen­ship in this countrj'. 
A century ago, lacking two years, the site of an old mission to the Potawatt­omi Indians near what is now South Bend, Indiana, was chosen by seven men of the Congregation of Holy Cross for founding the University of Notre Dame. Their capital was $400; their campus was a ten-acre clearing. Today there is a campus of more than a square mile of park with 45 University buildings, a faculty that numbers 292 Professors and assistants, and from all the 48 States of-the Union, the District of Columbia and twelve foreign countries, a student enrollment of more than 3,000 young men. It is a proud record of steady and substantial growth. 
But that. Reverend President, seems to me the least part of the story. The great thing is the purpose for which these facilities were assembled and the extent to which that purpose has been' realized. The great thing is the host of young men sent out during these 98 years morally and intellectually equipped for the high responsibilities of citizenship. It is being sadly and widely confessed in this country that, with not­able exceptions, education has drifted 
far from an earlier and better concep­tion of its functions—a conception held by George Washington and many early Americans, that true education included .with a well-trained mind a well- de­veloped moral character also. That from the first has been the objective of Notre Dame's unwavering work; her successful attainment of it is her glory. Religion and patriotism — character and citizenship—morality and social use­fulness, these are inseparable. Where one is found in uncorrupted form the other always accompanies it. Political liberty is not possible without spiritual enlightenment; social stability is not possible outside a morality rooted in re­ligion. There is no force or power in legislation to produce and to maintain the elements of good citizenship, these rise from the law written on the heart; and that law, functioning through an 
COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS 
BULLETIN: As the ALUM­NUS goes to press, the President of the University, Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., has just an­nounced the following outstanding speakers for the Cojtnniencenient, June 2, 1940: 
Baccalaureate Preacher: Most Rev. John J. Cantwell, D.D., Arch­bishop of Los Angeles, California. 
Commencement Speaker: Hon. M, L. Duplessis, former Premier and present Leader of the Opposi­tion of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Quebec, Canada. 
This announcement, coupled with the Program (see pages 210 and 
217) already announced, guaran­tees a brilliant 96th Annual Com­mencement week-end. 
enlightened conscience and an obedient will, gladly accepted by an instructed mind— that law, creative of social order • and justice, has its roots in Religion. "Whatever may be conceded the influ­ence of refined education," said George Washington, "reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of re­ligious principle." 
If we have forgotten that, the dicta­tors have not. They know that if they would separate a man from his liberty, his rights, from all. that supports the dignity of the human soul, they must first sever him from his faith. And then to fill the gaping void they must proselyte him to the pagan worship of the State. They know what foundations must be attacked if they are to reduce human beings to the level of a State herd. Nor need we go so far afield as the spheres of the dictators. In odr o^vn coimtry the people who are readi­est to trade our precious heritage for the promises of false gods are those who never had or have abandoned the light and protection of Christian principle. .And not all of them are poor and ignor­ant people, many are rich, and educated in that partial education that makes no account of the things that belong to our peace. 
Against that onset of chaos, a Uni­versity like Notre Dame stands like a rock with all the hacking of the Chris­tian centuries. We honor her for many things and for this- above all,' that in her, the elements of righteousness and knowledge and citizenship, and the good will required to shape the unformed world of the future, are met together,, and by her are reproduced in her sta­dents and in the great and growing' body of, her graduates for-the service of society. 

Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, c.s.c, 
Acting President of the University 



The Educational Frontier 
(Radio Speech delivered in Detroit on Universal Notre Dame Nisht) 
Notre Dame salutes Detroit on this our seventeenth Universal Notre Dame Night. It is fitting that Notre Dame should do this, because of an intimate bond that e.xists between the "City of the Straits" and our campus, dating back to 18-30. In that year, a deputa­tion of Pottawatomie Indians, under the leadership of Chief Pokagon, came to this village to beg of Father Richard the services of a "Blackrobe" to instruct them in the religion of their ancestors at the mission of St. Mary of the Lake, from which came the Notre Dame of to­day. Accordingly, in 1830, Father Badin arrived in northern Indiana, near the Michigan border, to become the first pas­tor at the revived mission of St. Mary of the Lake. 
The Detroit of Father Richard's day was not so far removed from the Detroit of the frontier. Here, in 1701, regard­less of the obstacles that the frontier presented, was planted a French culture and refinement. Here was established a settlement that later was to serve as one of the gateways to the old Northwest Territory. The frontier of yesterday is now the metropolitan city of today, pop­ularly known as "F.O.B. Detroit." 
All of you are familiar with the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. It is pos­sible, however, that you may have for­gotten an important section, which to me, is the heart of the document. It reads as follows: 
"Religion, morality, and knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and the means of education shall forever be encouraged." 
It is surprising that the frontiers­men insisted on this Christian concept of education. It was to be expected, be­cause the founding fathers before them were religious-minded men. Well did they stress the existence of God and the God-given rights of man and the dignity of the human personality in the historic Declaration of iTidcpendence, which con­tains the philosophy of our government and the true meaning of the American way of life. 
It is easy, therefore, for the frontier of the old Northwest, bom in the rich­ness of French culture, to adapt itself 
to the Christian concept of government and education. Of course, the wild life of the territory gave occasion for cer­-tain irregularities. This was to be ex­pected. But what I should like to point out is that the frontiermen were inter­ested in the essentials of life, and not in its frills or fads. They had no time for such. They were substantial men, cour­ageous and heroic, who had an appreci­ation of basic principles. They had to be if they were to live, because their day was one of hard living and sacrifice, in contrast with ours of soft living and 
luxury. 
So the old frontier acknowledged the existence of God as a basis for its educa­tional program. Truth is eternal, and must repose in God its source; truth is absolute, fixed and unchangeable; as firm today as yesterday—it is permanent throughout the years. From its Source, the only code of morality follows. And well did the old frontier realize this. Recognizing the importance of religion and morality, what could be more na­tural than that an emphasis on knowl­edge should follow. To be sure, there were different forms of religion, but the Christian life was there. And to per­petuate this life, it logically followed that "schools and means of education should be encouraged as being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind." 
But what a change the intervening years have brought! The old frontier emphasized substance in its educational program; while the new frontier—the modem trend — emphasizes method. Now method is necessary, but an over­emphasis on method is disastrous. It was assumed that reasonable progress would follow, but progress based, na­turally, on the Christian concept of edu­cation — the American heritage. But through the years a radical change oc­curred. Time will not permit of a treat­ment of this. The fact remains, how­ever, that it did occur. And today we have attractive temples of education, with all modem equipment and conven­iences, but in them no reference to God or religion, and therefore, lacking the American philosophy of education. And then we wonder what is wrong with American life. 

Let me answer that question by giving you an excerpt from an editorial which recently appeared in an important na­tional magazine: 
"Are we today a Christian-minded people? Putting sentiment aside, let us appeal to the facts . . . Christians are a minority in- this country. Again, crime flourishes . . . And the largest class of criminals is drawn from the 18-25 year old group . . . Only a minority of our children are receiving an adequate train­ing in Christian belief and in the code regulating Christian living. Our laws not only permit, but in some cases, actu­ally promote divorce, race suicide, and other disorders abhorrent to the princi­ples of Christianity as these were accepted by the Founders of the Repub­
lic. The present state of education can be gauged by our public schools, divorced from religion, and by the welcome ex­tended to men who violently attack the Christian belief and morality in our non-Catholic colleges and universities." 
Of course, there are the exceptions, but these exceptions are considered by some as outmoded and old-fashioned. Well, if being old-fashioned, in the sense of the new frontier, means sacrificing basic truth and the American way of life, then Notre Dame and the host of other church-related colleges and univer­sities are honored, I believe, in being considered as voices crying in the twen­tieth century wilderness for a return to the Christian concept of education and the true American way of life. 
Let us get back to an emphasis on God, basic morality and true knowledge, with a proper appreciation of human rights and property rights if the Ameri­can way is to survive. It is time for all Americans regardless of religious be­lief or no belief, to insist on the hightvay of substance in education instead of the subivay of method, so that truth may find its rightful place in our educational life. For today, as yesterday, "religion, morality, and knowledge," in the lan­guage of the old Northwest Ordinance, "are necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind." 
From Vincennes, another frontier post of the old Northwest Territory, just ninety-eight years ago, came a band of 
(Continued on Page 214) 

17tk U. N. D. Night Shatters All Records 
All Fronts, All Angles, Report Success Beyond Any Previous Vear; Mutual Broadcast and Honor­ing of John Neeson, Night Founder, Stand Out 
Sixteen years ago, John Neeson, C.E., '03, then president of the Alumni Asso­ciation, issued a proclamation calling for universal observance of one night each year as Notre Dame Night, on which alureni and friends everywhere might receive news from Notre Dame and pay tribute to the beloved Uni­versity. 
The wisdom of the plan from a prac­tical standpoint, and the beauty of the thought in its intangible qualities were never more clearly emphasized than on Monday night, .A.pril 15, of this year when the 17th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night found 92 Local Alumni Clubs, 20,000 Notre Dame men, and un­counted friends, gathered in all of the parts of the United States and many foreign countries, for the annual celebra­tion. 
The University has come a long way since 1924 when the First Night was held. -And it was encouraging to every­one who had a part in its development that the 17th Night reflected this devel­opment. 
Keyed from Detroit, where the Notre Dame Club assembled a magnificent ca­pacity crowd of 600 leading citizens, the program there was carried to all parts of the United States by 85 affiliated sta­tions of the Mutual Broadcasting System through the facilities of CKLW in Detroit. 
William J. Cameron known to millions as the spokesman of the Ford Hour, de­livered a beautiful tribute to Notre Dame on this program, which the ALU.M­NUS is privileged to reprint. 
Similarly, the ALU.MNUS is happy to bring to all alumni the brilliant message of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, act­ing president of Notre Dame, some of which was omitted from the network program through the curtailment of time, but which was presented in full to the Detroit meeting and contains so much of signficance to all Notre Dame men. 
Welcome guest at Detroit and a wel­come voice on the air to the listening Notre Dame world was Most Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., Au.xiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy, until January Notre Dame's president. Bishop O'Hara, on the air, spoke only several minutes but charged subjectivism — by which every man is a law unto himself and God, the source of all law, is ex­cluded—a§ being the cause of the chaos in family, national and international affairs. Later, in Detroit, the Bishop gave a splendid contribution in outlining the early missionary antecedents of Notre Dame as a factor in the influence of the University. 
Harry Kelly, secretary of state of Michigan, and Howard Beechinor, presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, presented the Detroit program, to the local and radio audiences. Other features of the radio presentation were Elmer F. Layden, director of athletics of the Uni­versity, Hon. Edw. Jeffries, mayor of Detroit, and the Notre Dame Glee Club, which organization won its seen and unseen audiences completely by a splen­did performance. 
In Philadelphia, the University and the Alumni Association, through the in­itiative and the splendid management of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, paid tribute to John H. Neeson, C.E., '03, founder of Universal Notre Dame Night. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, al­so paid tribute to Mr. Neeson in the Detroit observance. 
At noon on April 15, in the Philadel­phia City Hall, in the presence of civic leaders, Mr. Neeson was presented wt h a scroll of greeting from Notre Dame. Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C. made flie presentation on behalf of the University. And the Notre Dame Club of Philadel­phia, through its secretary, E. Bradley Bailey, presented Mr. Neeson with a beautiful replica of the Dome (cf. cut on cover of this issue). The program was broadcast and a meeting in the eve­ning found the Club paying still further honor to its distinguished member and nationally known alumnus. 
Significant to all alumni, not only of the purpose of the Night, but also of the personality a;id ideal of its foimder, is the acceptance of the scroll from the University by Mr. Neeson: 
"Your Honor the Mayor, Father Burke, Fellow-members of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, and Friends of Notre Dame. 
"When the founders of Notre Dame, led by the beloved Father Sorin, a Frenchman, arrived at the shores of a lake in the wilderness of northern Indi­ana, nearly a century ago, weary and footsore, and made for themselves a shelter of logs, 'They builded better than they knew.' 
"They established the root of some­thing more than the institution of learn­ing that is today the University of Notre Dame. Their early sacrifices could only be sustained by an unquenchable faith. In the twilight of life they saw the fruits of their labors swept av.-ay by dis­aster. Before the ashes were cold they began resolutely to rebuild with their own hands. The heritage they left their successors was their spirit, that has be­come tradition to every Notre Dame man. 
"It was they who founded Universal Notre Dame Night, not I. Chance merely made me the instrument that found a way to gather together the sons of Notre Dame the world over, one night in ev­ery year, that we might in unison re­dedicate ourselves to the faith, the tra­dition, and the spirit that is Notre Dame —^where we learned that even more im­portant than mental attainment there is but a single pattem-of-life that one must follow with courage and without devia­tion. 
"Of course, we are proud of our Uni­versity and its life, where true fratem­alism reigns without fraternities; where is still being taught that things material are not the goal of life; that all men are created free and equal; and we are proud of her academic and cultural achievements; of her great leaders—^the Walshes, the Morrisseys, the Cavan­aughs, the O'Donnells, and the O'Haras; the deans of loving memory; the invent­ors and scientists—the Zahms and the Nieuwlands, and hosts of others—all, to us, revered memories. 
".4Lnd we glory in the fact that there is but one 'ism' we know at Notre Dame —Americanism. 
"So, tonight, twenty thousand of us, in all comers of these United States and abroad, will renew our allegiance to her and be grateful for the privilege of hav­ing once lived in the shadow of the dome 
(Continued on Page 251) 
THE EDUCATIONAL FRONTIER 
(Continued from Page 212 
seven men into the wilderness of North-
e m Indiana. The group consisted of 
Father Sorin and six Brothers. They 
arrived at the mission of St;-Mary-of­
the-Lake on a bleak November day of 
1842, to car\'e out of the wilderness a 
shrine of education dedicated to the 
Mother of God — Notre Dame. They 
labored, they sacrificed, and eventually 
won; and Notre Dame today, with an 
enrollment of three thousand students 
from every state of the Tlnion and four­
teen foreign countries, stands as a living 
memorial to their faith, courage, and 
perseverance. From this historic cam­
pus, have gone forth thousands of her 
sons into the various activities of life, 
ever-mindful of Notre Dame's training, 
which can be termed in the phrase 
"First things first." Well did Father 
Sorin realize the importance of the edu­
cational program of the old frontier 
that "Religion, morality, and knowledge, 
being necessary to good government and 
the happiness of mankind, schools and 
the means of education shall forever be 
encouraged." 
And so tonight, I am happy to report that God has blessed Alma Mater with another successful academic year. Notre Dame was indeed honored by Pius XII in the appointment of its former presi­dent. Bishop O'Hara as Auxiliary of the Army and Navy diocese. Moreover, under the direction of a devoted and capable faculty of religious and laymen, all departments of the University are making steady progress. The graduate division is conducting, very quietly, but effectively, important problems in re­search, and at the same time is training students for their respective positions in life. Since last Universal Night, out­standing symposia in philosophy, higher mathematics, physics and bacteriology, brought to the campus renowned schol­ars. In the undergraduate division, the traditional training of mind and will is being continued as in the past, with proper emphasis on not only how to make a living, but what is more impor­tant, on how to live so as to reach the eternal goal of happiness. And last week, what is believed to be the first student intercollegiate conference in phi­losophy in America was held on the cam­pus. I see in this a future development that \vill bring together a larger repre­
sentation of young men and women for an interchange of ideas that should serve to offset certain radical thinking. Time will not permit of a further appre­ciation of campus activities. Neverthe­less, this brief chronicle of campus life is subdued by the deaths of Father Wenninger and track coach John Nichol­son. We miss them from their posts. 

because by their devotion to duty they Who are free of all things living but c expressed devotion to the University. Child; and He was thine." 
May they rest in Peace! 

And we must be His! 
Within the shadow of the Centennial of the University, therefore, I ask all 



PLACEMENT AQIVITIES 
Notre Dame men tonight to rededicate Placement activities in the Alumni 

themselves to the ideals of Alma Mater as symbolized by the statue aloft the Association during the late winter 
and the • early spring months have 
Golden Dome, as so beautifully ex­pressed by the renowned G. K. Chester­pushed ahead at increased speed and 
with encouraging results. An increased ton, visiting professor at the University number (as compared with last year) of in 193.3, in his peom "The .A.rena:" 
representatives from business organiza­
tions have come to the campus to inter­"I have seen, where a strange country %'iew groups of seniors regarding em­opened its secret plains about me. ployment. 
One great golden dome stand lonely 

The Placement Committees in many with its golden image, one of the Local Clubs have continued heir Seen afar, in strange fulfillment. intensive efforts. In Detroit, John W. Through the sunlit Indian summer Brennan, '27, was chosen early in 1940 That Apocalyptic portent that ha.= as chairman of the Club's Placement clothed her with the Sun." Committee and already John has demon­strated marked effectiveness. Jack Doyle, "Queen of death and Life undying '28, Minneapolis, and Frank Mayer, '27, Those about to live salute thee; St. Paul, head a new Placement Com­Not the crawlers with the cattle, looking mittee for the Twin Cities Club. Charles deathward with the swine. A. O'Neill, ex. '27, was named placement But the shout upon the mountains chairman in Milwaukee on Universal 
Of the men that live forever. Notre Dame Night. 

GIFTS . 



The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From the estate of the late Dr. Thomas O'Hagan, Toronto, Canada, LL.D., '17 "For the O'Hagan Prize for an Essay on Irish Historj'" $.500.00 Also, books and manuscripts from his private libiai-y. -'••'•> 
From Mr. E. Byrne Hackett, New York City ­For the University Library, the following volumes: " James Boswell's "The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, with Samuel Johnson," 1785; John Hawkins' "Life of Samuel Johnson," 1787; Samuel 
]
Johnson's "A Journey to the Western I.slands of Scotland," 177.5. 
From Professors Froning and Rich, '28, of the Department of Chemistry Several volumes for the Chemistry and Engineering Libraries. 
FOR THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL (From March 1 to -April 24, 1940, inclusi%'e.) 
Milton Thomas Bishop, West Brighton, N. Y.  3  10.  
John B. Clark, '33, Jersey City, N. J  5.  
Mary Rita Cour, Springfield, HI  ._.  1.  
W. J. Cour, '38, Washington, D. C  .'.  '.  1.  
L. J. Gemon (additional), Detroit.  „  25.  
Mary Greeley, Washington, D. C...  _  1.  
Prank Hartman, Springfield, 111John Metz, Springfield, HI  _  1.  1.  >  .  

Notre Dame Club of W. Pa. (additional), Pittsburgh, Pa 75. Ed. J. Ryan, '25, Valparaiso, Ind 5.50 
Total ,..$ 125.50 PreWous total . 259,732.16 
Grand total ....?259,857.66 
(Sig.) J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C," President. 
sae^oBBBaii 

5-. ­
V- John P. Nicholson^ Track Coach, Dies  
•r  
Brilliant  Athlete.  Skilled  Teacher  Is  Taken  At  
Height of Career; Became Devoted Notre Dame  
Man By Association With  Notre Dame Family.  

^ Press wires everywhere on April 2 flashed the news of the sudden death of '-^ John P. Nicholson, 49, track coach of the University. "Nick" was famous in 
i " the nation's sports circles. But no press wire could carry the real significance of the death of the beloved , figure to the Notre Dame campus. 
"Nick" 

Notre Dame men are usually born, with matriculation. But occasionally, a Notre Dame man is made, by associa­tion. John P. Nicholson was one of the finest of these instances. 
Nicholson was a student at the Uni­versity of Missouri, being graduated in 1913. His career as a hurdler made him famous in all the leading American 
"track events and won him a place on the 1912 Olympic squad. 
After a year of reporting, Nick took the track coaching Job at DePauw Uni­versity, Greencastle. From DePauw, Nick went to the University of the South at Sewanee, Tenn., where he was track coach, assistant football coach and di­rector of athletics. After six years there, he went to Centre College, only to ac­
-cept an offer from Rice Institute in Houston. Aifected by the unsettled condi­tions in college athletics, Nick moved to Canada in 1924 to coach track and foot­ball for the Montreal A. C, being tre­mendously impressed by the Canadian system of sports. 
So, in 1928, it was in Canada that Knute Eockne finally found the man who was to succeed him in the coaching of track at Notre Dame. 
Nicholson, like Eockne, was a great developer of boys for the boys' sake. But in the process neither sacrificed honest love for victory or the value of success in both individuals and teams. Notre Dame will miss the coach who pro­duced such stars as Alex Wilson, Jack Elder, Johnny O'Brien, Vince Murphy, Bill McCormick, Don Elser, Dan Gibbs, Bud Faymonville, Roy Baillie, Bob Sag­gau, Dave Reidy, Bob Bernard, John Francis, George Meagher, Ted Leonas, 
Bill Clifford and Henry Brosey, and per­haps his greatest star—Greg Rice. 
Elmer Layden said of him, " Nick was beloved by all the boys participating in all kinds of sport, by students and by his associates among the coaches." 
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., said, " But it was his vast moral influence on the campus which endeared him both to faculty and student body As was his friend and associate, Knute K. Rockne, Mr. Nicholson left us at the height of his career and his fame and memory will form a part of the sacred tradition of Notre Dame " 
Rev. William .A.. Carey, C.S.C., preach­ing the funeral sermon in Sacred Heart Church (the gift of faith came to John Nicholson at the close of his career, too, as it came late in his life to Knute Rockne), said: 
"John Nicholson's comparatively brief association \s\Va. us was daily fastening stronger the golden cords of love and loyalty.... Let us recall and forever re­member that John Nicholson's devotion to his chosen duties was so complete and so unselfish that even at the cost of his own health, yes, perhaps at the price of his very life, he fulfilled that one command of God, Whatsoever thy right hand findeth to do, this do with all thy might." 
Nick had been to New York on March 31, the anniversary of Knute Rockne's death. He and Greg Rice, whom he was coaching as a post-graduate indepen­dent amateur, attended the Communion breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New York. In the evening of that day. Rice defeated Maki, the Finnish runner, in Madison Square Garden, one of the great track triiunphs of all time. 
Returning to South Bend Nick re­ported some disturbance of his heart in New York, but continued his coaching pending a doctor's report. He attended a meeting of the South Bend A.C., a group he had organized around Greg Rice, on the night of April 2. After din­ner, he retired complaining of pain, to the lobby of the meeting place, was taken to the room of a friend, and died there within a half hour. 
He was buried, from Sacred Heart Church, in Highland Cemetery, near the grave of Knute Rockne. 
Surviving him are his widow, Gladys Hunt Nicholson, a son, William R., 19, a freshman at Notre Dame and a promis­ing hurdler, a daughter, Martha, 13, and his mother, Mrs. Margaret Nicholson, his mother, Mrs. Margaret Nicholson. 
One of Nick's last aiipearances, at the Rockne Breakfast of the New York Club on March 31. Left to riKht. Justice Ernest Hammer. "OJ. Richard Reid, Bishop John F. O'Hara, 'II, GrcR Rice, '39. Coach Nicholson and John Larelle, '28. (See New York Club news). 
» »


SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
TOSEPH F. DEEB, '31, Grand Rapids, 
Mich., is, as far as the best sleuths can find out, the youngest United States dis­trict attorney in the country — at the age of 31. He thus joins Notre Dame's own "youngest club," together vrith John Carey, '27, mayor of Toledo, who, at 34, 
Joseph F. Deeb 
is the youngest mayor of any large American city. 
Joe, on March 26, was named district attorney for the western district of Mich­igan following his unanimous approval by the Senate judiciary committee. He had been district attorney since the death of his predecessor in January. Before that, since August, 1938, he was assist­ant attorney. 
An A.B. in 1931, Joe followed with an " 
LL.B. in 1933 from Notre Dame, with the presidency of the Law Club in be­tween. In Grand Hapids, after Notre Dame, he was district counsel and then district manager of the HOLC. He left the latter position to enter the district attorney's office as assistant. 
Mrs. Deeb and the tivo Deeb sons help Joe to enjoy, at' 600 Cambridge Blvd., S.E., Grand Rapids, the wide approval that has followed his appointment. 
Office Secretary's Manual just published by Prentice-Hall. 

At Notre Dame, John was one of the campus' busiest and most efficient secre­taries through his four years, secretary, for example, to the late Father John Cavanaugh. That sort of knowledge and experience was strongly in his favor when, eight years ago, one of the New-York schools asked him to design an eve­ning course for the benefit of law office assistants. An experiment, the course was at once popular, and has remained so and is now being adopted by other schools. John now teaches a similar course in Columbia University's Exten­sion Diwsion. And as the pioneer in the field, he was asked two years ago by Prentice-Hall to write the book which has now appeared. 
John J. Antus 

John went to the Yale Law School for a year, then received his J.D. from New-York University in 1930. (He also at­tended the Notre Dame Law School through four summer sessions and was the first — and the only — student w-hen, in 1930, Dean Konop inaugurated a course in Air Law.) His private prac­tice, his teaching and his active part in the New York Notre Dame Club provide a super-active life. 
_( 

tinctive degree the abilities of a teacher and a painter. The latest evidence of his teaching ability — as well as his deep sympathy and understanding spirit 
— is contained in an article in the April Indiana Alumni Magazine skillfully done by Nathan Kaplan. 
Giving up his vacation and supplying materials himself, Harry began last sum­mer a class in art for the prisoners of Indiana State Prison, Michigan City. The results in creative accomplishment have been little less than phenomenal, as exemplified by the exhibit which is now making its happy way about some • of the important cities of the Middle West. The art class is now a part of the educational program of the prison, and one of the prisoners has charge of it, but Harry retains a large and fatherly in­terest in it. 
In his ow-n art, Harry w-orks chiefly in portraiture and water color, in both of which fields he has studied widely in this country and in Europe. He has been represented nearly every year since 1931 in the Hoosier Salon and in 1931 was aw-arded the Salon's prize for the out­standing still life. His work has also been accepted in the Indiana Artists Exhibition, in the Detroit Art Institute, and, for a one-man show, in the John Herron Art Institute. His e-xhibitions of photography have also gained much favorable attention. 
JOHN  J. ANTUS,  '28,  is  a  lawyer- 
teacher  in  New  York  City,  a  busy  TTAERY ENGEL, '28, a member of the  
and successful man indeed.  And now he  faculty of Fine Arts in Indiana Uni­ 
is also an author—^the writer of The Laxc  versity, Bloomington, combines in  a  dis- Harry Engel  

Alumni Prominent in Commencement Plans 
/­
96th Commencement Finds Banquet, Reunions, Loom­
ing Large, With Promise of Real Contribution to Ihe 
Alumni Week-end in More Vital Faculty Contacts 
Commencement in 1940, with more than 600 Seniors' receiving degrees, is going to offer a program well in keeping with the progressive record of its prede­cessors. 
But alumni participation, with the in­itiative of the Board of Directors and the personal patronage of the Acting Presi­dent of the University, takes a sharp upward turn. 
The Board shares the views of the President that the alumni who return from varying distances for the Com­mencement week-end should receive more for their efforts than the transient en­joyment of renewed fraternal bonds and refreshed sentiments toward campus scenes, valuable and respected as these are. 
Several significant steps to augment these traditional features appear in this year's program. 
Peace is a world topic of vital conse­quence. It is a subject to which Catholic college men can contribute the funda­mental factors. 
Taking advantage of the unusual dis­tinction which has come to Notre Dame this year through alumni, four outstand­ing members of the Association will com­bine to contribute approaches to this problem of peace at the Alumni Banquet on Saturday night, June 1. 
Most Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., '11, Auxiliary Bishop of the Army and Navy, under whose guidance as President of the University last fall, a student committee on peace was formed, and whose present position makes his pronouncements most significant, heads a brilliant group of speakers. 
Raymond J. Kelly, '15, national com­mander of the American Legion, will speak with a background of self-evident authority and importance on the program being pursued in this country to insure the just peace for which the Holy Father has besought prayers. 
Lewis J. Murphy, '26, national com­mander of the Disabled Veterans of the World War, will speak on the great con­tribution of Notre Dame to the cause of patriotism which is the soundest basis upon which to promote a peace program. 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Ph.D., '16, Acting President of the University, will present to alumni the picture of Notre Dame Today. And the unifying of the University with the Banquet theme lies in the beautiful, proved story that in Notre Dame and the teachings of Notre Dame lies the most powerful bulwark of American institutions against the encroachment of alien doctrines from without or within. 
Unifying this Banquet program, as toastmaster, will be Clarence E. "Pat" Manion, professor of law, who occupies a spotlight position in the present prog­ress of true Americanism as the author of Lessons in Liberty, one of the widely heralded contributions of the year to a definition of the real principles of Amer­ican democracy. 
The Board of Directors feels that to hear this distinguished group of alumni on any topic would be a privilege, but to bring them together to contribute their valuable views on a subject of immediate and vital concern to everyone is a dis­tinct achievement for the Association, and a great step toward a realization of a more valuable relationship with the University. 
Added to this Banquet program are two other steps in this deeper program. 
.A.t 11 o'clock on Sunday, immediately 
Ray Kelly, "15 

after the flag-raising, the Class of 1930 has arranged for a demonstration of the nationally heralded germ-free, living test-tube, experiments of Prof. J. A. Eeyniers, himself a member of the Class, in the Biology building. Members of the faculties of the various Colleges of the University, will also hold open house for former students at the same hour in the various College buildings, and the Art Galleries will he open for general visitation. 
Alumni, Seniors and their guests, — parents and others — are invited to avail themselves of these arrangements, so that a more complete picture of the work pf the University can he taken away, and the always sought personal, family spirit of the campus can be refreshed. 
The regular features, long popular, are neither neglected nor obscured. 
Reunion Classes, the five-year Classes from 1890 to 1935, will be back in un­precedented numbers, from early returns (see Class Notes). 
Reunion dinners . . . the general Alumni Golf Tournament on the 18­Hole University Course .. . the 1930 vs. 1935 Softball Game .. . the Varsity Baseball Game OTth Michigan State on Cartier Field . . . the Old-Fashioned Smoker in Brownson Rec .. . the Fellow­ship in Lyons, Morrissey, Howard and Dillon Halls . . . the Council of Local Alumni Clubs . . . the Band, Glee Club, and other entertainment in the Washing­ton Hall Theatre . . . concerts on the Quadrangle . . . use of the Eockne Me­morial . . . with a swim in the Lakes if the snow is gone . . . and the academic features. Commencement proper. Class Day, the Baccalaureate Mass and the Class Masses, and the Flag Raising . . . all these are there (see the program on the inside front cover of this issue). 
May 31, June 1 and 2. 
Commencement and Reunion at Notre Dame. 
The complete glories of the 95-year­old story — 
With several bright new Chapters ^v^itten in for 1940. 
Don't miss it. 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS 
s 
A bronze bust of Notre Dame's great and beloved Knute K. Rockne was un­veiled in an impressive ceremony in the columned foyer of the Rockne Mem­orial on the campus Saturday afternoon, April 6. The bust, fashioned by Nison Tregor, New York Citj' sculptor, was nncovei-ed by Miss Jeanne Rockne, daughter of the famous football coach, while the immediate family. University officials and friends of the immortal Rock looked on. 
A blue and gold shroud bearing the seal of Notre Dame covered the specially placed niche where the statue stood. The bust stands on a plain grey marble base on which are carved the words: "In Memory of Knute K. Rockne, 1881­1931." 
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, was official host. The guest list included: Mrs. Knute Rockne and family. Judge and Mrs. G. A. Farabau'gh, Mr. and Mrs. 
E. M. Morris, Mr. and Mrs. Elmer F. Layden, Mr. and Mrs. Stanley S. Sessler, Mr. and Mrs. Frank E. Hering, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, Mr. and Mrs. Charles E. Dorais, Detroit, and Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, Chicago, 
A reception followed the ceremony in the Rockne Memorial lounge. Prof. Francis J. Hanley, of the Notre Dame Art Department, was in charge of ar­i-angements. 
Universitj' officials have announced a reorganization of the social work courses offered at the University into a separate Department of Social Work. This change is in accordance with recommendation made by the American Association of Schools of Social Work, the official ac­crediting body in this field. The program will include the basic courses recom­mended by the Association, including the following: Case Work, Community Organization, Psychiatric Information, Public Welfare Administration, Medical Information, Child Welfare, together with additional academic courses and ex­tensive field work opportunities. A num­ber of scholarships are available to qualified students. 
This change marks another step in the long history of Notre Dame's identifi­cation with certain phases of social work. First organized on an undergrad­uate basis and later developed into a graduate program, the University has workers in probation, parole and public 

welfare work. 
In a statement, Professor Frank T. Flynn, head of. the new department, said: "This reorganization has taken place only after long study by Univer­sity authorities, and it is in keeping with developments in the field of social work. The federal government and most pro­gressive states have placed positions in the public welfare and crime fields on a merit basis, and in these important areas of public service only qualified appli­cants are received. The standards for admission to graduate work in the de­partment provide for 20 hours of back­ground courses in the social sciences, those to be selected from a combination of sociology, economics and politics. Stu­dents whose background is deficient in this prerequisite may under certain con­ditions make up some of the background courses." 
Because of the emphasis on field work, the Department will not offer the Mas­ter's degree, consequently no language examination or thesis is required. How-. ever, by a special arrangement with the Department of Sociology the student may take the Masters' degree in Sociol­ogy by completing an additional two summers or one semester in sociology. 
The new Department will cooperate with the Department of Sociology in the recently announced program in Correc­tional Administration, but it is empha­sized that students not majoring in so­ciology are eligible for admission to the Department. 
The award for the outstanding entiY in the fifth annual secondarj' school art * exhibition sponsored by Notre Dame was captured by an Ohio high school student, " David Kutchko, a pupil in Lakewood , High school. His entry, a still life, was selected from more than 200 works of ... art submitted from 19 midwestern high schools. The display was held in the <• Univex-sity's art galleries. 
Installed as part of an expansion pro­gram inaugurated last fall in the Col­lege of Engineering is a new machine which is used for compressive testing -T of any engineering material. The ma­chine has a capacity of 200,000 pounds, ^ according to Prof. Walter L. Shilts, as­sistant dean and head of the Civil Engi--\ needing Department. 
A presentation of papers by two pro­fessors from Princeton University closed Notre Dame's fourth annual mathe­matics symposium, April 11, in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering. Prof. Solomon Lefschetz read a paper on "The Foundations of Algebraic To­pologj-," and Dr. Henry Wallman's sub­ject was "Lattices and Connectivity." 
Dr. Karl Jlenger, of Notre Dame, opened the Wednesday afternoon, April 10, session with a reading on "Topology of Lumps," and Dr. Arthur Milgram, also of the University, opened the Thurs­day morning meeting with a lecture on "Partially Ordered Sets and Topology." 
Other speakers at the symposium in-

produced many who are now prominent At the nnveilinE of the Rodtne blut on April 6 were, left to riKht. Rev. J. HoKh 0*DonneIl. CS-C. Jeanne Rockne, Nison Treffor, the scniptor, and Elmer Layden. 
eluded Prof. E. W. Chittenden, of the University of Iowa, and Dr. John W. Tukey, of Princeton. 
The four-day symposiimi had for its subject, "The Foundations of Topology." 
Major James H. (Jimmy) Doolittle, Dayton, Ohio, famous aviator and speed king of the air, attended the Notre Dame branch meeting of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, April 25, in the Gushing Hall of Engineering. 
Thirty-four members were in attend­ance at the meeting presided over by Prof. F. N. M. Brown, chairman of the branch and head of the Notre Dame Aeronautical Engineering Department. 
The world-famed Philadelphia sym­phony orchestra will play in the Uni­versity gjTnnasium next spring as the feature attraction of the South Bend Ci^uc Music Association's 1940-41 pro-gi-am of atti-actions. 
Ezio Pinza, Metropolitan opera basso, sang in the gymnasium. May 1, in a special recital of the Association. Ob­servance of Music Week at Notre Dame closed May 3 with the appearance of Albert Spalding and the South Bend symphony orchestra in the fieldhouse. Jlr. Spalding played three violin solos, accompanied by Andre Benoist. 
Approximately 200 engineers, repi-e­senting 20 Illinois and Indiana colleges and universities gathered at the sixth annual convention of the Illinois-Indiana section of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Education held at Notre Dame, April 20. 
The delegates were welcomed by Rev. 

J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University, spoke on "Intellectual and Moral Edu­cation at Notre Dame," pointing out that religious and intellectual elements in higher education are integrated at Notre Dame. 
Dugald C. Jackson, .Tr., dean of the College of Engineering, told the engi­neering educators that the undergradu­ate engineering cun-icula should be made ever broader and more funda­
• mental through increased emphasis on basic sciences and humanistic and so­cial studies. 
Prof. Walter L. Shilts, assistant dean of the College of Engineering, presided at the convention sessions. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS ... . 
The Law of Wills, by William D. KoUison. Callaghan and Company. Chi­cago. 1939. ?6.00. Pp. xxi, 827. 
Professor RoUison, of the Notre Dame College of Law, has long been recognized as an expert on the law of wills by those who have come in contact with him as a student, as a fellow attorney in practice before the Bar, or through his many outstanding writings on this sub­ject. This latest writing of Professor Rollison, combining, as it does, years of research and study in this specialized field, affords him the outside recognition that he has long deserved. The publica­tion of his book as a volume in the National Textbook Series stamps him as the outstanding authority on wills of this decade, because this series features the ^\"riting of only the most eminent jurists, lawyers, and educators in this country. 
The author's excellent historical intro­duction symbolizes his entire treatment of his subject by an historical approach. Not only does he go to the root of each problem historically but his first chap­ter is devoted to a clear and concise definition of terms used in this complex legal study. 
In scope Professor Rollison's text com­prehends the entire field of the law re­lating to the post viortem disposition of property. The first part concerns the transfer of interstate property when a person dies without leaving a will; the second part treats of tranfers by will; and the third part discusses the admin­istration of the estates of decedents. 
Although the author's style is concise his exhaustive treatment of the law of wills covers about 800 pages, and dis­cusses over 5,000 cases in addition to hundreds of statutes and other authori­tative writings. Notwithstanding the nu­merous citations of authority the author has avoided all useless cumulative ci­tations of decisions in his footnotes. By • restricting his documentation of the text material to outstanding cases and au­thorities of recognized merit. Professor Rollison has made his text more readable and has enhanced its use. 
Since its publication at the close of 1939 this text has been favorably re­ceived by members of the Bar and by fellow educators. It is certain that the Notre Dame alumni, who for the past nine years have studied under Professor Rollison, will enthusiastically adopt his text because it confirms their belief and that of the entire campus that he is truly the outstanding authority on the law of wills. 
Notre Dame lawyers will find in Pro­fessor Rollison's text the most recent authoritative statement of the law of wills. Those who are not lawyers among the alumni will find much helpful in­formation on this subject which is too often neglected because of its necessary connection with the sorrows of death. This neglect frequently causes greater sorrow than the loss of the loved one who has died ^vithot providing for a dis­tribution of his property after his death. Law students, at Notre Dame and at other leading institutions, have already adopted it because it gives great assist­ance to them in the study of the import­ant and diflicult course in wills. 
The acclaim merited by this book of Professor Rollison, and by the book of Professor Manion which was published earlier in 1939, has served to direct at­tention once more the recognition being accorded the College of Law of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, which is the oldest Catholic College of Law in America.—JAMES J. KEARNEY, '31. 
Woven of the Sky, by Sister Miriam, R.S.M., New York: The Macmillan Compan.v, 1940, $1.50. 
Deserved recognition of another of the Sisters who attend our Simuner Session is achieved in this refreshing volume of poems by Sister Miriam of the Religious Sisters of Mercy. 
In his delightful introduction to the book Odel Shepard says: "Here is a modem mind that has been disciplined by tradition. Here is a fine and vigor­ous intelligence wedded to warmth of heart. .A.nd in these poems, finally, there is a passionate acceptance, nobly uttered, of the loftiest adventure upon which the human spirit can set forth." 
A deep spiritual insight revealed ivith 
charming simplicity of utterance, in­
forms Sister Miriam's poems, as when 
she sings in one stanza of the title poem: 
"This fniit that is the thought of You is wide And high as heaven is high, yet fear­lessly I wander tip and down, alone, inside This canvas woven of the sky for me." 
Sister Miriam received her Master's degree at Notre Dame in 1927, and is at present a teacher in College Misericor­dia, Dallas, Pa. Her work is already familiar to readers of Commonweal, America, The Ave Maria and Spirit, in which some of these poems have ap­peared. 

^ J, 
j • 
By BILLSCANLON. "42 '^h
ATHLETICS 
-V-.
•Jij 
BASEBALL 
Without benefit of a southern, pre­season training program, Notre Dame's baseball squad opened the 1940 season in a masterful marner, walloping North-western's Wildcats — just back from the south — G to 1, behind the one-hit pitching of Norv Hunthausen, senior right bander from St. Louis. 
Despite the lack of batting practice and experience on an outside infield, Coach Clarence (Jake) Kline's team cap­italized on the expert flinging of Hunt­hausen. Only hit off Hunthausen came in the eighth when much-publicized Bill deCorrevont slapped a single over sec­ond. Eay Pinelli, Irish shortstop and son of National League umpire Babe Pinelli, raced behind the bag and knocked down the ball, but he was unable to toss deCorrevont out. The latter advanced on a stolen base and two infield outs to 
Hunthausen, who has attracted at­tention- from Pittsburgh Pirate scouts, helped win his own game by swatting a double to right in the fourth frame, sending home Captain Chet Sullivan and Andy Chlebeck. 
Three sophomores — Catcher Bernie Crimmins of football repute, Chlebeck, center fielder, and George Sobek, basket­ball ace — made their debut in Irish, uniforms. 
Cold and rain forced cancellation of games with Iowa's Big Ten champions the week-end of April 12-13. Then, at Chicago April 16, Rex Ellis, lanky curve-ball specialist, scattered five hits effec­tively to halt the Maroons, 4-1. Like Hunthausen in the season inaugural, Ellis assumed batting honors by swatting tvvo safeties. 
Hunthausen, in the manner of Bob Feller, missed his second hurling oppor­tunity when Western State of Kalama­zoo, combined timely hits and plentiful Irish errors to win, 9-6. Captain Sulli­van led Notre Dame's attack with a home run and triple. 
Moving to the Irish campus, Chicago and Notre Dame resumed rivalry as Joe Devine, New York Yankee scout, looked on. Sebastian (Subby) Nowicki, sopho­more right hander from South Bend, took the mound on a rainy, disagreeable day. 
After blanking the Midway unit for five innings, Nowicki suddenly hit a wild streak. He gave up three passes and tivo hits for four runs in the sixth. Hunthausen took over in the seventh and gave up but one hit the remainder of the tilt. A pair of northerners, perhaps accustomed to the chilly weather, paced the Irish. Ken Oberbruner, Ashland, Wisconsin, senior, cracked a triple, dou­ble and single while Chlebeck of St. Paul, Minnesota, marked up a double and two singles. 
In one of the best games of the early season, Notre Dame converted three hits — by Sobek, Sullivan and Crimmins — into two runs as Ellis stopped Western 
11 
Pitcher Norv Hunthausen 
State with six safeties and won, 2-1, at Kalamazoo. Western counted in the sec­ond frame, Notre Dame twice in the third, and the game went scoreless the next six stanzas. 
Northwestern's pre-season southern trip and ability to calitalize on six Irish errors brought a 6-3 return triumph for the Wildcats at Evanston. Hunthausen hurled for the Irish and didn't allow an earned run. Notre Dame took a 3-0 lead in the third but lost it when the infield collapsed during the four-run Wildcat spree in the fifth. Sullivan and Ray Pinelli led the Irish hitters with two hits each. 
Playing the longest game thus far, Purdue's Boilermakers marked up two runs in the first of the twelfth, then withstood a one-run Irish rally in the home half to win, "3 to 2. Notre Dame scored in the second, and Purdue tied it up with an unearned run in the fourth. From then on until the twelfth both teams were scoreless. Ellis' curveball. 

'h 
aided by a sweeping westbound wind, held the Boilermakers to six hits. Mackie­wicz paced Purdue at bat while Sobek, Ray Pinelli, and Chuck Farrell, first baseman, starred at the plate for Notre Dame who outhit Purdue, 10-6. Ellis fanned eight men. 
Rex Ellis lost a second tough one, 2 to 1, to Michigan State at East Lansing, as we galloped to press. State scored in the first on a double and a single, and the Irish retaliated in the second on Chlebeck's walk and Ray Pinelli's double. 
I'? 
Thus it stood, with Ellis holding the. 
••».' •
hurling edge, until the ninth when a double and a passed ball, plus two inten­tional walks, set the stage for Casey Klewicki's long hit which scored the winning run and automatically ended hostilities. 
After eight games. Coach Kline's squad had won four and lost four. 
•»•,',• 
TENNIS 
Paced by Dan Canale, sophomore from Memphis, and Bill Fay, senior from Pittsburgh, Notre Dame's tennis team looms as the first in recent net history that may soar above the .500 mark. Under Coach Walter M. Langford, pro­fessor of Spanish at the University, the racquet wielders conquered Wabash at Crawfordsville, 6-1, and Kentucky at Notre Dame, 8-1, before losing to West-em State there, 6-3. They came back to blank Indiana, 9 to 0, losing only one set. 
Highlight of the season thus far is the play of Canale, younger brother of Frank Sturla Canale, 1934 football monogram 
'^'ii'
winner at end. Coach Langford, w^ho has been watching Notre Dame tennis 15 years, rates Dan as the greatest ten­nis player in the school's history. In his latest start, Canale beat Gene Russell, Western State's No. 1 sophomore, 6-3, 6-1. Coach Frank Householder of West-em agreed with Langford that Canale rates ahead of Bud Markey, Irish net star of a decade ago. Others prominent in Irish net circles are: Jack Joyce, Harold Bowler, John Wolf and John • Walsh.. 
V 

GOLF 
With only two victories in five matches to date, the Irish golfers need three vic­tories in the final four matches to finish above .500. The two victories ^vere over Purdue, 29 to 7, and over Marquette, 13 to 5. 
The defeats, all of which resulted 

•from
 bogging down on the back nines, 

•were
 at the hands of Michigan, 18% to 8%; Illinois, 16 to 11; and Northwest-em, 16% to 10%. 


The Michigan match was played at Ann Arbor and the Wolverines had had a southern training trip. The Illinois joust was at Champaign, and the Illini had had the benefit of warmer weather than prevailed around South Bend this spring. But we can't explain the North­western game, and that was the most decisive of all. 
The lads became entrenched behind the 8-balI against Michigan by losing the best ball foursomes, 8% to %. But in the six singles matches, on which 18 points rode, the Irish led at the end of 
«­
nine holes in every match but one, in which Captain Walter Hagen, Jr., was all even. He eventually won, 2 up. Four of the six matches were settled on the 18th green, the Irish losing t\vo of them to 30-foot birdie putts, another to a birdie, and the fourth to a par. 
In the Illinois match, the Irish lost the best ball competition, 7% to 1%. But again they rallied in the afternoon. Hagen and Phil Donohue were even at the turn, and the other four boys at the end of 9 holes. Donohue and Milo Wolf, South Bend sophomore, were the only eventual winners, however, Willie Wil­son, Port Huron sophomore, getting a half. 
Captain Hagen, and Bill Schaller, Mil­waukee senior, won 2% points from Chase Fannon, the Big Ten champion, and Charles Barrett of Northwestern, but the Wildcats took the foursome, 5% to 3 %. Again the Irish rallied well, but couldn't stand up through the back nine. Sammy Neild, Central Falls, R. I., jun­ior, who has been setting the scoring pace for the year, was even at the end of nine holes, but came in in one under 
•par to win, 4 and 3, and to give the Irish their only singles victory of the day. 2% to %. 
Donohue and Wilson obtained halves against Captain Chet Bland and Bill O'Neall, respectively, of the Wildcats. 
V TRACK 
"Nick" is gone, as you know, and it would be futile for us to try to add to the many fine tributes that have been paid to him. The spiked shoes of Greg Rice and the 1940 team, the last coached by John P. Nicholson, convey the mes­sage better than we can. 
The boys have dedicated the rest of the season to Nick, and they have run their hearts out for him. Greg, forced to pass up a race in New Orleans with Taisto Maki because of a sore foot, came back May 4 to defeat Maid and Walter Mehl of Wisconsin at 3,000 meters in Minne­apolis, setting a new American record of 8:18.9, just 7.5 seconds better than Paavo Nurmi's former record, and only 
4.1 seconds off the world mark held by Gunnar Hockert of Finland. This means 
Pitcher Rex Ellis 

that Hockert's mark is well ^vithin Greg's grasp and that the latter will probably include it in his blitzkrieg of Finnish records when he gets around to it. 
So much for the post-graduate team. The varsitj', with or without Nick's guid­ing hand, simply didn't have the stuff during the indoor season to compete ^vith such teams as Michigan, Indiana, and Marquette. Our cry has been, "Wait until next year" when the strongest freshman team in Notre Dame history moves up. 
Notre Dame's showing was the weak­est in many years in the Drake relays, and the one team that had a chance to win — the mile quartet — was wrecked when George Schiewe pulled a muscle in the sprint medley. He will be out until the Centrals in June. At that the Irish took third in the mile and t\vo-mile relays, and Cliff Brosey picked off fifth in the shot put. 
Notre Dame was third in the Hoosier relays, a quadrangular relay meet won by Michigan, with Indiana second, and Illinois fourth. There Notre Dame won the mile relay in 3:20.5, a new all-time Notre Dame indoor record, the meet having been shifted to the fieldhouse be­cause of rain. Notre Dame's only other 
•winner was Bob Saggau in the 60-yard dash, but John Dean tied with Gushing and Decker of Michigan in the pole vault at 12 feet 6 inches. 
The fighting spirit of the 1940 team, demonstrated to a great degree in the indoor duel with Michigan in which Notre Dame held the Big Ten champions to their closest score of the season, was shown again in the recent triangular meet with Wisconsin and Northwestern. 
Wisconsin won •with 73 1/3 points to Notre Dame's 591/3 and Northwestem's 301/3. On a dual meet basis, the Bad­gers would have defeated the Irish, 66 to 65. Notre Dame didn't •win, either way, but the Irish made it a battle. 
Brosey, for example, defeated by George Paskvan of Wisconsin in 'the Drake relays, came back •with a toss of 49 feet 10% inches to •win the shot put, Paskvan coming in at 49 feet 4 inches. 
Bob Saggau finished a good second to Myron Piker, Big Ten sprint champion, in both the century and the furlong, keeping Novak of Wisconsin in third place. 
Curt Hester turned in an excellent 
4:19 performance in the mile run, and then chased Ed Buxton of the Badgers home in 1:55.7 in the half-mile. Buxton, the conference 880-yard champion, threw a stiff challenge at Hester in the mile, but Curt turned it back. 
Maybe we should talk about winners first, but the race Johnny Martin ran in the two-mile caught the fancy of the crowd, particularly those who have watched Johnny through the better part of three seasons. He was beaten in the two-mile in 9:43.4 by Bill Farin of Wisconsin, but he nosed out Ed Knox of the Badgers for second. The time wasn't good, but it was the fastest of Martin's career. Farin and Knox led for seven of the eight laps, then Johnny jumped them going into the final lap. He piled up a short lead which he held until they came into the home stretch. Here Farin, running all out, passed him, and Knox was coming strong. Johnnys knees buckled 20 yards from home, and he appeared to be on the point of col­lapse — but he pulled himself together and ran on through the iinish line, only three yards back of Farin, •with all the heart, if not the natural talent of Greg Rice, and •with the courage that Nick 
. admired. 
Ray Roy won the 440-yard dash as he pleased in 49.4, and then anchored the winning mile team of Ken Collins, Bob Lawrence, Joe Halpin and himself, which was clocked in 3:21.5. 
Dave Reidy's •victory in the low hur­dles and fine second to Finch of North­western in the 14.9 high hurdles; John Dean's tie •with Billy Williams of Wis­consin, and Ed Thistlethwaite of Wiscon­sin at 12 feet 6 inches in the pole vault; Captain Ted Leonas' tie for first in the high jump •with Jim Smith of North­western at 6 feet 4 inches and his •third in the broad jump .. . all represented the top performances of these boys, and thaf s all that's expected. 
STUDENT NOTES 
(For the final issue before Commence­ment ive present an "old-timer" as con­ductor of this department. Bill Piedmont, of Norfolk, Va., finished in Journalism last June and then came back for a year in the Graduate School of Social Work. He expects to receive his Master's next August a}id subsequently tvill be open to take the offer of one of the many news­paper editors wlw, he faintly hopes, will be clamoring for his service. With two years of experience as secretary to Dr. John M. Cooney, head of the Journalism Department, Bill is thoroughly equipped to "produce"). 
SPRING ITEMS 
Speaking of spring and the young man's fancy, the seniors looked forward eagerly to May 3. That was the date of the Senior Ball, and Larry Clinton, the old dipsy-doodler, was slated to do the honors. A candlelight supper in the Dining Hall preceding the Ball, was planned, — a new feature in the senior's social week-end. Walt Wuebbold, Hamil­ton, Ohio, was the chairman of the Ball, and Bill Mooney's, Waverly, Iowa, Mid­night Stars was selected as the official Ball song. 
A LA HOLLYWOOD, ETC. 
Pat O'Brien and Donald Crisp, of Hollywood fame, will arrive. May 14, for the filming of scenes on the Notre Dame campus for the picture. The Life of Knute Eockne. O'Brien is cast as Rock in the picture, and Crisp plays the part of Father Charles O'Donnell, pres­ident of the University during part of the Rockne era. 
While students are looking forward to playing bit parts in this production, John M. Maloney, Boise, Idaho, junior, can stand around and offer professional bits of advice to his fellow students. For John has had Hollywood experience. We wouldn't exactly say that Maloney was co-starred with Spencer Tracy in the film. Northwest Passage, but, neverthe­less, he does apepar in that picture. John appears in all the shots of Roger's Rangers taken on location at Payette Lakes, Idaho. Look for him in that scene of the Rangers sleeping before carrying the whaleboats over the moun­tains — that's Maloney turning over on his side. 
Still in the theatrical vein, the Mono­gram Absurdities is scheduled for May. 
By William L Piedmont. Jr.. "39 
Once again a beef-trust chorus starring Milt "Moose" Piepul, captain-elect of the 1940 football team, will spotlight the show, but Bob Saggau, Denison, Iowa, who is better known for his antics on the football team, promises to be the hit of the production in his role as leading lady. Co-starred with Saggau are Tom Duffy, Chicago, 111., manager of the bas­ketball team, and Jerry Flynn, Roches­ter, N. Y., head cheer leader. An original play, "Don't Be Absurd," on which the Absurdities is based, was written by Walt Hagen, Jr.; Detroit, Mich., Tom Marker, South Bend, Ind., and Bob Tieman, Indianapolis, Ind. Karl Hunn's campus orchestra will provide the musi­cal background for the singing and dancing chorus of Fighting Irish ath­letes. 
And we mustn't forget the great job Father Coyle and the University Players did with Goldsmith's "She Stoops to Con­quer" last month in Washington Hall. 
STUDENTS PHILOSOPHIZE 
A t\vo-day intercollegiate philosophical conference, said to be the first of its kind ever held in this country, took place on the campus April 11 and 12 with the universities of Notre Dame, Indiana, and Illinois participating. Notre Dame's rep­resentatives in the discussions were Bob Sullivan, Binghamton, N. Y., Bob Shea, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and Al Callan, Newark, N. J. Jim Daner, Mt. Clemens, Mich., president of the Schoolmen, pre­sided at all of the meetings. 
Nate Levy, South Bend lawyer, but Lee Douglas to the Morning Bugle pro­gram listeners on WFAM, South Bend, featured a recent open forum on social­ized medicine sponsored by the Realists, a campus club of sociology and social work majors. Mr. Levy advocated a pro­gram of compulsory health insurance, and Professor Ronald Cox, of the Speech Department, presented the viewpoint of the medical profession on the question. 
The activities of the sociology and social work departments, however, have not been confined to open forums. Dr. Phillip Law, of Chicago, recently con­ducted his graduate class in psychiatry through several of the larger psychiatric clinics in Chicago including the Cook County Psychopathic Hospital and the Adult Psychiatric Clinic of the Loyola School of Medicine. And Professor Flynn has announced that his criminol­ogy classes and social work students will soon be afforded the opportunity of going through the Indiana State Prison at Michigan City. Mr. Flynn is a member of the parole board at the prison and has 

expressed a reasonable belief that the ' group will return intact. 
GOING TO PRISON 
A career in prison administration and criminal rehabilitation, rather than coaching or professional football, is the ambition of John Kelly, captain of the 1939 edition of University of Notre Dame football. 
John has announced his intention to enroll in the graduate department of social work of the University and has been doing preliminary work this spring under faculty direction. He is the second Notre Dame football captain in recent years to enter this field. John Law, who headed one of Eockne's last teams in 
i 1929, now has an important executive post in the New York State Department of Correction. 
DECOURSEY, PLEASE NOTE 
All of the alumni members are not "off-campus," and if your correspondent doesn't work in a "blow" for the campus contingent of alumni he'll never be for­given. Augie Bossu, Monongahela, Pa., and Jim McGoldrick, Philadelphia, have been assisting Coach Layden with his freshman squad. Aug has recently been signed as football coach at Chaminade High out Long Island way, and Jim is planning on staying around another year or so for his law degree. Art Phillips, Claremont, N. H., is still convinced that "Doc" Reyniers "has something there" 1 in those germ free cubicles over in the biology building. The McGuire boys, Mike and Joe, Shortsville,, N. Y., are practically indispensable in the chemis­try department. Bob Schorsch, Chicago, is doing Kis graduate work in philosophy. Bob Kennedy, Chicopee Falls, Mass., is in English, and John Head, Utica, N. Y., is in the graduate school of social work. George Haithcock, Nashville, Tenn., is working over in Mr. Barry's publicity office, and our two- and three-mile world champion, Greg Rice, has just obtained a leave of absence for a visit home — his first in 18 months. Greg has been employed by the Indiana & Michigan -V Electric Company and has been living in South Bend since his graduation last June. 
And so the Year for Others is drawing rapidly to a close. Father Carrico will have the final examinations schedule posted in another week or so, and ap­proximately 600 graduates will be ready for alumni membership. 
« « <i
ALUMNI CLUBS 
BUFFALO Lionel V. O. Smith, *33, 424 Main St.. Pres­ident; John H. Travers, Jr., '33, 191 North St., Secretary. 
Our Universal Notre Dame Ntght Dinner was a brilliant success. The Hotel Touraine was the scene of our activity and a large crowd turned out to hear John C. McDonnell, crand knight of the Knights of Columbus, our toastmaster; and our euest speakers. District Attorney, Leo J. Haggerty, and Rev. John Scanlon. 
The theme of Mr. Haggerty's address was the urgent need for "More Catholic and Notre Dame men engaged in public life." Father Scanlon em­phasized the "Value and place for a good Cath­olic education to help us safeguard our rights to Life, Liberty and the pursuit of happiness." 
At the speakers table also were Li Smith, our energetic president, and Mike Sheedy and Frank Reppcnhagen, co-chairmen of the dinner. 
Seen at the various tables were William P. Cass. Sr. and his sons. Bill and Frank, Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Else, Mr. and Mrs. Carlos Frank, Mrs. Frank Rcppenhagcn, Sr., Mrs. John McKcndrj*, her son, John, and his fiancee. Miss Grace Maher, Ed Banks, John Warren, Frank Bennett, Mr. and Mrs. Jack Hodson, Thomas Condon and his charm­ing wife, Marty Travers, Fran Brown, Frank Bennett, Sr., and many others. Everyone agreed 
" that the dinner was a huge success, and our thanks go to our capable co-chatrmen for their grnnd work. 
Last month I told you that our banker, Marty Travers, expected an heir and a future Notre Damer. The heir arrived last month, but she w-ill be a future St. Mary's girl and w-ill enroll under the name of Barbara Patricia. Congratulations, Marty, and best wishes of the club to you and Mrs. Travers. 
Frank Cass. '^5, announco<l his engagement re­cently to Miss June Meyers, of Kenmore, N. Y. We will wait now to see what brother Bill has to say about this. 
Mr. and Mrs. Carlos Frank have just returned from a two-weeks' sojourn in Florida, and Carlos claims he is ready to carry on his good work for the club. 
Plans for a smoker in May are now under way. Boxing and wrestling bouts, movies, entertain­
• ment and prizes will be arranged to make the members anxious to attend. 
Would appreciate hearing from any of the class of '33 and will promise them a return letter. Jack Travers. 
CANTON, OHIO 
Robert C. Strcb, '32, 3210 11th St., S.W., President; Charles A. Kolp, Jr., '38, 4207 North Canton Road. Secretar?'* 

This year Notre Dame Night was observed in 
' ' a little bit different manner by the Canton Club. Members of various classes got together with their friends and classmates and had several private parties. 
' ' Robert C. Strcb, the club president, had one of these groups to his new home for the evening. Another group, headed by Louis W. Kolp, met in­formally at the "Chicken Box" to listen to the program. 
Canton, this year, was able to listen to the Notre Dame program over its o%vn radio station, as station WHBC had just joined the Mutual Broadcasting network the Saturday before. 
Charles A. Kolp, Jr. 

TAe 7939-7940 Alumni Board 

Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notre Dame, Ind­ .JHonorary  President  
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, IIL  President  
Henry C. Wurzer, '25, Davenport, Iowa  -Firat  Vice-President  
Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif. ..„  Second  Viee-PresidetU  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind,  Secretary-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  Assiatant  Secretary  
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J.  Director  to  IHO  
Francis  H. McKeever, '03, Chicago, 111,  director  to 1941  
Edward F. OToole, '25, Chicago, HI.  .JHrector  to 194f  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich.  JHrector  to 1943  
Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D.C.  .JEx-Officio JHrector to 1940  

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) 
Michael J. Lcding, '33, 1047 Gillespie St, Schenectady, President; Edwin W. Kenefake, '34. 401 Union St., Schenectady, Secretary. 

On Sunday evening, April 14, it was the privi­lege of Notre Dame men in this area to greet Bishop O'Hara in Schenectady. The occasion was a broadcast by Bishop O'Hara to South America over station W2XAF, the short wave station of the General Electric Company. The program was in observance of Pan-American Day. Bishop O'Hara's message to the South American countries was delivered first in Spanish and then in English. Through the eitorts of our Schenectady alumni, notably Jack Hucthcr and Mike Lcding, and through the cooperation of John Shean, manager of the short wave stations of the General Electric Company, it was possible for the alumni of this area to be in the studio during the entire broad­cast. As we left the stuilio that evening I thought I noticed some of the boys walking more erect and with heads a little higher. Checking up on myself I found my chest sticking out a little too. We were all ver>-, very proud that we knew Bishop O'Hara. In the gathering, visiting with Bishop O'Hara after the broadcast, I spotted the following: Jack Hucthcr, Tom DoUard. John Mcehan. Mike Leding, Chris Connolly, Dick Walih, Larry O'Neill, Jack Rainey, Larr>- Weiss, George Kristel, Ray Schleck, Ed Kenefake. and Elmo Moyer. My apologies to those I missed. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Capital District obsen.'ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner and meeting at the University Club, Albany. President Larry O'Neill presided. Our guests for the evening were Father William R. Charles, pastor of St. Vincent's, Albany: Father Edward O'Malley. of St. Mao-'s Church. Troy: and a member of the faculty of Catholic Central High: Brother Qucntin and Brother Regis of the faculty of Vincentian Institute, Albany. 
Father Charles, the principal speaker of the evening, was introduce<l by Eddie Eckert. Father Charles, an old friend of Notre Dame and Notre Dame men, gave an inspiring talk. He made us all realize a little more our responsibilities in our respective communities as Catholic men and as graduates of a Catholic University. 
Following Father Charles' talk a short business meeting was held and officers elected for the coming year. The new officers elected are: Michael J. Leding. president; William J. Casazza. vice-president: and Edwin Kenefake, secretary-treasurer. The following were elected to serve on the Board of Governors: J. T- Connolly, Rens­selaer; Lawrence T. O'Neill, Albany; John F. Campbell, Albany; Lawrence L. Weiss, Schenec­tady; and Joseph A. Bncci. Amsterdam. 
Out-going President Larry O'Neill thanked the other officers and members of the club for their cooperation during the past year and asked that the same fine cooperation be given the new offi­cers. Larry then turned the meeting over to our new president, 3Iike Leding. Mike outlined ten­tative plans for the coming year. In outlining these plans, Mike, acting on the suggestion in the April "Alumnus" that the ladies be included in our plans for future events, opened the discussion on this point. While no definite decision was reached it appears to me that the ladies (God Bless them) will have to do some organizing to break in on what have always been "stag" affairs. The discussion apparently ended when one brave champion of the ladies suggested that "they will of course be welcome to our annual Christmas dance." 
In addition to our guests the following club members attended: Frank Kelly, Larry Weiss, George Kristel, Ray Schleck, Bill Brannigan. Mike Leding, Larry O'Neill. Elmo Moyer, Ed Kenefake, Pete Nantista, Joe Knhartdi. Joe Nardone, Eddie Eckert. Bill Ortall. Jack Hnether, Francis Disney, Len Koran, Jack Casazza. Bill Casazza, John Smith, Jack Rainey, Joe O'Kane, John Campbell. Sherb Herrick. Tom DoUard, Jim Drislane, Chris Connolly, Harold Canavan, John Mcehan and Harold Rhodes. 
John CampbelL 

CHICAGO 
Thomas C. Donovan. '24, 134 S. LaSalle St., President; J. Barry O'Kecfe, '32, 4841 W. Adams St., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago celebrated Universal Night at the Knickerbocker Hotel. The program was well attended by 500 loyal support­ers. Our speakers were excellent; and Chairman Ed Gould has a right to be proud of his achieve­ments. 
Judge Thomas J. Hoban, of the class of '18. did a noble job as master of ceremonies. Rev. John Cavanaogh, C.S.C', acting vice-president of the University, gave one of the most stirring talks ever presented to the club. Our principal speaker was Hon. David Worth Clark, of the class of *22, United States Senator from Idaho. Mr. Clark lived up to all expectations. His speech was brilliant. Hon John E. Cassidy. *17, the attorney general of the state of Illinois, also gave a very nice talk. D. E. Hilrartner. Jr., *17, rounded out our speaker's proKram, and I am happy to say our speakers rated second to none. 
The Kotre Dame Alumni Glee Club appeared for tlic first time before our club. The organization is composed of 16 selected voices from graduate^ members of the University Glee Club. Their songs were inspiring, and very well received. This ai^ pearance of the Glee Club was a good preview of their concert, w-hidi is to be held on May 2G at the Studebakcr Theater. 
Our Second Annual Handball Tournament ended in the crowning of new champions. In the singles, Ed Mclchionc. '32, is the new champ, dethroning AI Culver, who was the runner-up this year. Third place was won by Ray McGrath. In the doubles, John Dorgan and Ed Melchione are the new champs, with Roy Fox and AI Culver taking second place. Ray McGrath and Harold Reynolds won third placti. Hats oft to John Dorgan for another successful tournament. 
J. Barry O'Kecfe. 
CLEVELAND 
John J. Collins, *32. 1090 Union Commerce BIdg.. President; G. Albert Lawlon, '35. 639 Leader Bldg., Acting Secretary. 
Almost two months ago our sccretarj*, Dick Prezcbcl, left Cleveland for Kansas City, Missouri. where he is now art director for Beaumont & H=hman. advertising consultants. It is a real step forward for Dick, and wc wish him every success. His departure was so hasty we were unable to secure a substitute for him; hence we were not represented in the last issue of the "Alumnus." With the cooperation of the "Alum­nus" staff this insertion will cover events of the past t^vo months. 
Another of our close friends went west recent­ly. Lou Hmby was promoted by G.E. and trans­ferred to Los Angeles. Your correspondent will miss both of these lads a great deal as they were far more than casual acquaintances, we having been together through Loth high school and col­lege. 
The local organization was deeply grieved by the sudden, tragic death of Ralph HuHer's father. Mr. Huller frequently attended such functions as the Rockne Memorial Breakfast and Universal Notre Dame Night with Ralph and was well known to many of our members. Eddy Killccn's father ditid last month after a lingering illness. 
Roger Brcnnan, as chairman of our Universal 
Notre Dame Night activities, arranged an out­
standingly successful event. The attendance was 
gratifying, particularly because of the number 
of recent graduates w-ho appeared. Some of the 
credit for that phase, wc feel, should be given 
Bob Mazanec and his capable Easter Dance com­
mittee, who by their energies in the latter affair 
aroused cnthusiasEi among this younger group. 
But to return to Rogers: he secured as speakers: 
Father Brcnnan from the University, and John 
Murphy, both talented orators with timely, enter­
taining messages. AVe agree with Father Brcn­
nan in his observation on arithmetic. At this 
meeting we had a chance to say "hello" to Tony 
Anzlovar, Art Bccvar, George Belting, Bob Butler. 
Jim Dcvitt. Dr. Ebncr. Jimmy Dnbbs. Jim Dris­
coll, Tom Byrne. Pat Canny. Stan Cofall. and a 
host of others. One member brought a prominent 
Cleveland business man 'with him. "When asked 
how his guest enjoyed the party our member 
replied, "I was proud to bring him: he had a 
good time and is now an enthusiastic member of 
our ever-growing synthetic alumni." The day 
following the party Phil Prcndcrgast met John 
Dorc on the street. John wanted to know when 
we were going to celebrate Universal Notre Dame 
Night. Phil says John's business certainly must 
be good to keep him that occupied. 
AVc understand that Harry Black has a 1941 model Dodge which the Chrysler factory has lent him for exi>erimental purposes. We had a ride in it recently and felt rather Winchelly. For your information, the '-11 models are to be higher, longer, and will embody many radical changes such as reversion to 2-whcel brakes, gear shift with reverse where second is on present models, no self-starter, leather scat coverings, and gov­ernors at 25 per. 
Slarly Rini and his Iwys did very well with the Rockne Breakfast despite many last-minute can­cellations of reservations liecause of influenza. It is the consistent success of such undertakings as this and the Retreats, in the opinion of a recent president of the club, which heartens the oldsters and makes the youngsters proud of the job we are doing as a Catholic Club in our community. 
Ask Bud Raddatz for one of his business cards. He is now representing .the Brantjen & Kluge Company. But Meyer Etkins is well satisfied. Bob Slorrisscy was recently appointed a member of the Hotel Statlcr sales staff. Included in his privileges is the permission to sign for his lunches, but he is not s-iving any money on the deal be­cause his clothes are getting much too small for him around the waist. Carroll Stalcy left ns for the Chicago Club pro tern, and then he moves on to Milwaukee. Proctor & Gamble has promoted him and he's iustifiably pleased. Les Raddatx can't determine what unbalances his budget, but we think it's a combination of a large six-mile per gallon automobile and a. West Side date: he being a far-Easter. 
Jack Collins, our proxy, is running for state senate. John Flj-nn also has his hat in the polit­ical circle. W^e recently had a pleasant visit with the father of Carlton Rohrer, a freshman from Niagara Falls. N. Y. Ed Carcj-'s family went to Florida as did Tom Kiencr's, the only difference (but important) was that Tom went with his family. Karl Martcrstcck has a beautiful new house, and Hugh Ball is driving an imposing car. Our Ix>ys are prospering. Baby item of the month: when your friends drop in for an eve­ning of swapping lies with you about youngsters, tell them that you know a chap whose three-year­old son literally detaches the legs of the dining-room table. You're right, it was H. E. Ball, 11. 
We had the flu recently and went to Mike Craw­ford for assistance. Several days later we learned that Mike is specializing in maternity cases. ­Frankie Gaul was Fio Ritoing at The. Cleveland recently. He tells us that Mrs. Tom Conley has been very ill, but happily is recovering rapidly. 
Ed Gough does not like moving. He hopes his present address will be his last for some time. Ralph Kaiser left his father's coal company and is now a research chemist for Seagrams. Too bad he can't hire an assistant as sampler. Bill Jacobs says Bob L>Tich was home for Easter for a very brief visit and then back to Ohio State where he is doing some P. G. work. Frank Donoghue is among our new comers; his home is in Auburn, 
N. Y. Bill Mudri, formerly of Youngstown, is also working in Cleveland. Mrs. Joe Gavin presented Joe with another daughter about a month ago. Cecil Hobcrt was nearly conscripted by the Finns when it was learned how profldent he had hecome at skiing. George Kozak is preparing to turn out another winning outfit at John Adams next fall. Eddy CaldwcU is still his able assistant. 
We haven't heard from Bob Lux since he went into the,ranching business in New Mexico, but his family tell us he is doing very nicely as measured in longhoms, and bj' next year hopes to trans­late the horns into dollars. Tom McGcttrick is busy at Thompson Products and John Raleigh is keeping things calm over at the Allerton Hotel. 
If we could sell life insurance to the father of every baby Joe Heiman delivers we'd ride to Com­mencement in a chartered plane. Bob Gallomiy is making a name for himself with As5ociates In­vestment. Bob Lochner is now with Ohio'Rubber. 

Dick 3IcMonagIe and his brother, George, have a busy law office close to the courthouse tn the Engineer's Building. 
Not long ago we saw Lou Bloom for a moment. He is engaged and living in Detroit. Jim Up-. richard's nephew. Howte Richard's son, is a win­ner in anyone's baby contest. When last we talked to Nick Ruffing he was having difficulty with a case he was trj'ing in a small southern city. It seems the judge couldn't understand why it wasn't reasonable to expect Nick to travel 750 miles for a trial and arrive three-hours after no­tification. Louie Stcttlcr is moving to Wooster. Ohio, where he has become an officer of the Akron Brass Company. John Bcglcy recently returned to town with news that he had signed up the Ford Motor Company for his Group Hospitaliration Plan, a real coup. John Weiscnd's new offices in the Hanna Building arc beautifully furnished. 
We hear occasionally from Roy Sholz. who is a resident physician at Johns Hopkins, specializ­ing in ej-e surgery. Fritz Slackford bought enough flowers for Mrs. Slackford for Easter to start his own greenhouse. John ^''enables managed to get his brother Herb out for the U. N. D. Night doings^ • ­
With the encouraging resiwnses of our younger group (Ed Gannon, Johnny Doyle, Bob Hackman. Harr>- Fox, Charlie Macaluso, Dan O'Brien, and others) and the return to the fold of Matt Tru--, dcllc. George Kerver. Jack Rcidy, Johnny aia­tousck, Dick Wcppncr and Pierce O'Connor we feel that the light is green for a glorious year next year. Perhaps there has never been less factionalism in our organization. With such ' unity our ofliccrs. to be elected in a few weeks, should build us into an organization in which our entire membership will participate in each of our activities. 
This has been a difficult letter to write as we 

didn't know we'd be taking Dick's place until re­
cently and hence were not on the "qui vive" for 
news. Bear with us: our next offering will be 
from our newiy-elected secretary. See you at 
Commencement. 
AI Lawton. 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Louis C Mnrphy, '33, 962 Sheridan Ave.. Columbus, President; Alfred O. Varley, ex. l< 
•2G, 42 E. Gay St., Columbus, Sccrctarj*. 

When the club showed the "Highlights" in Columbus on April 9, to an audience of 40 alumni and friends, somebody recalled that there ought to be an election of officers. These were the results, according to Harrj* Nestcr. retiring president: president. L. C. (Bud) Murphy; vice-president. Sam Dcvinc; secretary, A. O. (Pete) Varley; treasurer, Joseph E. Ryan; board of governors: Ray J. Eichcnlaub, Don SL Hamilton. Paul A. Mc­Donald. Jack Cannon, and Harry Ncstcr. 
1 

Plans are in the making for the club to cnter-­tain the baseball team when it plays Ohio State on May 17 and 18. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
M
John SL Cianci, *29, 60 Brooklawn St.. New 
Britain. President; Francis T. Ahcam. *27, 
c-o Hartford Times, Hartford. Secretary. 
In spite of the defections of past and present 

secretaries, the Notre Dame Club of the Connect-' 
icut Valley has continued a healthy and active 
existence since last heard from. At the risk of 
setting a precedent, I'll try to bring us up to date. 
Our duly elected president, Paul Castner, antt • 

our secretary, Allan F. Bride, were lost to us 
several months ago, when Paul moved to Stam­
ford, and Allan was transferred to Syracuse, 
N. Y.. as credit manager for Bond Clothers. John BL Cianci. vice-president, is now acting as presi­dent, and I have been pressed into service as secretary until our annual election, to be held April 25. Other present officers are Matthew­
McsktII, treasurer, and Thomas B. Curry, hono­rary president. 
The recent appearance of Joe Casasanta and members of the Notre Dame Band at the BushncU jremorial in Hartford was much enjoyed and well 
* patronized by- members of the club and their friends. 
On Saturday night. April 13, we held a very enjoyable and successful dance at the "Wampanoag Country Club. Scheduled as the Annual Sprins Dance during an optimistic March, it proved a misnomer, but the effcn-escent spirits of the mem­bers could not be subdued by ice and cold, and 65 devotees (more or less) of the dance turned out for as fine a gathering as we have had in years. 
In spite of the fact that Universal Notre Dame Night came just two nights later, we gathered 35 strong at the Bridgeway Hotel in Springfield. Mass., for dinner and reception of the radio broad­cast. John B. Sullivan, was chairman, and master-of-ceremonies, doing a splendid job of both assignments. Earlier in the evening he had joined with the Hon. William J. Granficld, in presenting a program on Notre Dame over station ^\'MAS, Sprinpfield. Chief speaker of the evening was ex-Senator John M. Shea, co-author 
• with his brother of the "Victory March," who stressed the worth of the great fraternity- of Notre Dame men. and the responsibility accruing to all 
.things Notre Dame through the acceptance of the . "man on the street" of Notre Dame as the meas­ure of collegiate greatness. 
Short speeches were also made by the Hon. William J. Granficld. Attorney John J. Granficld. Kaymond W, GrifTin, and John M. Cianci. After singing the *'Victor>' March'* as a tribute to Notre Dame and Mr. Shea, the balance of the evening was given over to reunions. 
Others present, who have not reported for some time, were: George Glynn, Mike Houlahan, Joe Jachym. Frank Consolati, and Ray McKcon. 
Lest I he overcome with an excess of virtue, I'll save the more frequently seen alumni in this region for another letter, before too long. I promise. 
John P. Cavanaugh. 

DAYTON 
Hon. H. L. Femcding. ex. '96. 125 Wistoria Drive. President; William L. Struck. '36, 70S Winters Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Dayton joined in the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Biltmore Hotel, Monday night, April 15. A large attendance was had. parents of students and friends of the alumni participating. 
The annual election of oflicers was held, the Hon. H. L. Fcmcdinir, former judge of the court of appeals, being elected president, and William 
L. Struck being re-elected secretary and treasurer. Members of the club in attendance were: Andrew Aman, E. Walter Bauman. Peter B. Bccmstcrboer. 
•
 Clarence C. Bmmlcvc, Sylvester Bums, William 

M.
 Carroll, James K. Collins. William F. Cronin. Urban Dalj*. Walter C. Dickerson, Hon. H. L. Fcmedinc. Earle T. Frarey, C. Forster, Robert 

W.
 Kennedy. Eugene A. Mayl. Dr. Carios J. Saw­yer, W. Edmund Shea, William I« Struck and Paul SwifL 


The letter from the Vincentian Travel Bureau, operated by the Notre Dame Conference of the Society of St, Vincent de Paul, was read and re­ceived much favorable comment. News that the following members have moved to other parts of the world was also made known: Gaylord P. Haas, 
'now in Honolulu, Hawaii, with the government, Robert Bolz, in Virginia at Langley Field, and Jack Hamilton with the Curtis-W^right Company in China. 
Plans were discussed for the coming year and the meeting was then adjourned to an enjoyable evening for all. 
William L. Struck. 

DENVER 
Charles A. M. Haskell, '29, 6G7 Birch St. President; Edward F. Alansfield, '34. 1932 Broadway. Secretary. 

Presenting its third tjrpe of "Universal Notre Dame Night" in as many years, the Denver Notre Dame club brought in non-alumni guests for its celebration for the first time, announced its $400 scholarship for a Colorado youth, installed new officers, renewed its efforts to be named host club for the 1941 sca-to-sea broadcast. 
For the benefit of nearly 100 guests at the Albany hotel, the past deeds, present ranking, and brilliant prospects of both Notre Dame and her men were reviewed by a capable board of review selected from non-graduate ranks. 
At the dinner following the national broadcast, the Very Rev. Robert Kelley, S.J., president of Re^is college; the Rev. Hubert Newell, diocesan superintendent of schools: Mayor Benjamin Sta­pleton. Chancellor David Shaw Duncan of Denver university. Col. William Huchingson of Colorado Woman's College, and President Paul Ketrick of Loretlo Heights College did the reviewing. 
To make their tributes all the more spontaneous and varied, the committee stooped to trickery in mentioning no speeches in the invitations to the non-alumni guests, so the old ''Unprepared as I am . . ." held a true ring. 
Chancellor Duncan. Tim Sloynihan's present boss, came through with the neatest phrase-turn­ing of the evening, when se said: "Notre Dame Street goes around the world, and it is indeed a fine thing for Notre Dame men to gather once each year on this night set aside." 
The mayor lauded the loyalty that keeps N.D. men together on and oft the campus, and uttered 
- II wish for more loyalty of its type for Denver and America. Hizzoner did his bit toward making Denver the nation's N.D. headquarters for '41 by wiring his invitation to the Detroit nircasters. 
Dr. Ketrick, one of the select few males guiding a ladies' Catholic college, had words of praise for N.D. men he knows, for the club's scholarship, for the pioneering done in Catholic education in N.D/S 9S years. 
Father Newell, a Regis prep classmate of many club members, offered the aid of his office in the club's scholarship work. His scholarly-phrased humor, his choice of N.D. as the object of an educator's benediction made him well-received. 
Col. Huchingson, the C.W.C. proxy, put the blast on the easy-pickin's educational school, and held up the N.D. disciplinary plan — both aca­demic and general — as a splendid, balanced system. 
Father Kelley, former president of Loyola in Chicago, termed Bishop O'Hara's religious pro­gram at N.D. the finest thing of its kind among American colleges. As a college proxy who punted the pigskinners out at Loyola and reinstated them at Regis, he knows w*hereof he speaks in re: college football. Therefore his opinion was held in esteem when he uttered laudatory words for the .athletic-academic balance of power at the home of the Fighting Irish. President Haskell brought Father Kelley into the spotlight's glare with a fanfare that included, "He's the Notre Dame man's idea of the ideal Notre Dame man." To which Father K. replied. "Not bad for a Jesuit!" 
Most Rev. Urban J. Vehr, Bishop of 'Denver (and a one-time NJ). summer school student) : Governor Ralph Carr. and State Supreme Court Chief Justice Ben C. Hilliard had to beg off to attend previously calendared aiTairs. The governor did add the state's official invitation by wire for 
N.D. Night to come a thousand miles west and one mile up for 19-11. The Denver Convention and Visitor's Bureau did the same telegraphic courtesy. 
Charles Haskell filled the presidential bill, boots, and chair as headman for the evening, taking over Jim'Logan's job. Others riding in with the new tophand were Vice-president Al G. Donds, Treas­urer Jack Sheehan, Secretary Ed Hanifield. and Board Members Fred Goshurst, John Humphreys, and Gene Bltsh. 
The GHQ staff that handled things for the club year just ended were LoKan. Gnshnrst, Harry Lawrence, Charles Cassidy, James Hanlon. Bob Dick, and Mansfield. 
Feature of the evening for the old and young grads, the wives and dates, the guests and their wives, the parents of present students was the aannonncement of the long-wanted $400 scholar­ship for a Colorado high school graduate. It's to be available for September, and the club sits with thumbs in vest now that it's a reality. Fred Gnshurst heads the committee, abetted by Bart O'Hara. AI Donds, and Charlie HaskcU. 
Thumbing the year's report brought to light the following 1939-40 accomplishments: 
Incorporation under state laws and expansion of the officers' group .. . best summer dance-ever held .. . a mountain party at Herb Fairall'i summer home .. . a "dawn patrol" to drive visit­ing priests and bishops to early Mass when the National Conference of Catholic Charities came here in the summer. . . An N. D. team in the Regis endowment drive .. . a dinner for the D.U. athletic staff when they brought Tim Moynihan in, and a later "Moynihan Night" at the D.U.­Iowa State opener, with gifts presented at half­time to Tim and Mrs. Hm. .. . A half-dozen "N.D. Nights." with movies, at the D.A.C., the 
K. of C. and some civic clubs in the fall. . . . The annual N.D.-West Point luncheon on Army game day . . . Aiding Re^s-Rockhurst ticket sales . . . RUNNING THE SEVENTH "VARSITY FLYER" TO THE U.S.C. GAME ^VITH A RECORD CROWD of 300 ABOARD . . . Establishing of a $400 scholarship . . . the annual Rockne Mass . . . Screening "Highlights of the '39 Season" in April (the crowd made a double feature necessary) . . . Last week, an N.D. club table at a civic dinner honoring Alumnus Ray Kelly on his official Legion visit to the Rocky region. . . . 
Wires went from the N.D. club on reunion night to Father O'Oonnell, Layden. Armstrong, Fred Snile. and Night-Founder Neeson. 
Keymen of new committees named by Haskell are: scholarship, Fred Gnshnrst; dance committee. James Hanlon; Catholic Action, Gene Blish; in­active members, Al Donds; N.D.-Army party. Bill Dick; publicity, Ed Mansfield; annual football train, John Humphreys; Rockne film premier. Jim Logan; fall football parties, Harry Lawrence; UNIVERSAL N.D. NIGHT, Bart O'Hara (do we get it?) ; membership and meetings. Al Frantz. 
The men who celebrated N.D. Night together were: Redmond Duggan, Jim TSanlon, Harry Law­rence, Bart O'Hara, Joe Slyers, Floyd Grazier. Al Donds. John Humphreys, George Starbnck. Charlie Haskell. Jack Shechan, Ed Mansfield, Al Frantz. Jim Logan, Herb Fairall, Jr.. Ray G. Smith. Tim Aloynihan, Charles Cassidy, Jr., Dr. Daniel Daniel -J. Pflanm, John F. ConnelL Ed Owens, Joseph M. Dunn, Gene Blish. Frank Con­way. Bill Dick, Bob Dick, Fred Gnshnnt, Al OTtfcara. Tom TIemey, Afork Kerin, Jack XkolU Dan Monaghan. Dave Rielley. Louis Hough. Tom Barry, Gene Di laOo, Tom Dwyer. Those who made reservations and were forced to cancel were Ed Gebben, .George E. Myers, Gaston Bemier, 
Jack Cndmore. Lous Finske. Joe McCarty. John McCarty. R. L. Jackson. Dr. Henry Dillon. 
Hie committee named by ex-president Logan to handle details of this year's party was master­minded by Jimmy Hmnlon, with Tom Tiemey, Ed Mansfield, and Herb Fairall working with him. 
Thus ended the most successful year the Denver Notre Dame club has yet marked into the records — one made possible not only by the work of the outgoing ofEicers, but by their predecessors. Bob Dick and Harry Lawrence, and by the older men back in the *20's wlien the club was in its diffi­cult formative years. 
Ed Mansfield. 
DES MOINES 
Charles H. Lynch. '29. 407 Southern Surety ^dg. . President; AV. R. Robison, 5th Floor, Iowa Bldg., Secrctarj-. 
The Notre Dame Club of Des Ikloincs held a get-together on Universal Notre Dame Night, at the Cabin of the Hotel Fort Des I^lolnes with a majority of the members in attendance. After the broadcast, a short business meeting was held. The officers elected for the new year were: presi­dent, Charles H. LjTich, 407 Southern Surety Bldg., Des Moines: secretarj*-treasurcr, "W, R. RobiM>n, 5th Floor. Iowa Bldg., Des Moines. 
The preliminary plans for the annual dinner for the members of the track team competing in the Drake Relays were discussed. 
For some time there has been a feeling that there should be a statewide Notre Dame Club in Iowa. All of the members at the meeting were in favor of this step. As soon as we receive a correct mailing list, we will start to contact all Notre Dame men in the state and get the club under way. 
Bill Robison. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Hcnr>* J. Haslcy, '28, 404 Peoples Trust Bldg., President: Maurice J. DcWald, '33, 2415 Huburtus St.. Secretary. 
Hcnrj' J. Hasley was elected president of the club at a meeting on Universal Night. C Byron Hayes was named vice-president, Maurice J. De­"Wald, secretary, Norbcrt J. Schcnkcl, treasurer, and John Lcvicki, sergeant-at-arms. Secretary Dewald reports that the meeting was exception­ally well attended and successful. The Detroit radio program came in (with some static) and was followed by a program of Rock's talks and 
N.D. songs, via the records. 
Maurice adds these notes: "Frank Corbctt is running for Congressman of the fourth district. Notb Schcnkcl is doing very -well in the con­tracting business and is happily married. . . . Henrj- Hasley and John Logan, '35, sponsoring week-end Men's Retreat at Sacred Heart." 
HARRISBURG, PA. 
Joseph L. Rafter, *30, State Librao'. Pres­ident; John J. McNeill, '33, 2220 Chestnut SL, Secretary. 
The Harrisburg Club obsen*ed Universal Night at the Harrisburger Hotel where a dinner party had been arranged by a committee consisting of Charlie Short, Walter Lutz and Frank Barbush. The program from Detroit was rebroadcast over local station WKBO and, therefore, the club ^vas able to enjoy it without any distortion as is sometimes experienced where distant stations have to be tuned in. All were in agreement that the program was a wonderful one in every respect. 
Two new members, in the persons of Robert J. Klaibcr, '35, and Samuel R. Reed, '3G, made their initial appearance before the club. Reed is doing engineering work with the State's Department of Forest and Waters, something in regard to flood control. 
At the meeting the following officers were elected for next year: president. Dr. Joseph L. Rafter, vice-president, J. Charles Short,, secretary, John J. McNeill, treasurer, Roderick J. Gillis. 
Lt. John W. Laccy is located at the U. S. Air Depot in nearby Ifiddletown, Pa. We tried to get in touch with him for the dinner but found that he had just hopped off for Sacramento, but would be back in a few days. We look forward to re­newing his acquaintance at our next meeting of the club. 
Joe FarrcIL 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Robert E. LcMirc, '38, 421 Second Ave., S., Escanaba, Mich., President; Francis R. Langrill, '30, 2004 Ella Court, Marinette. Wis., Secretary, 
Robert LcMirc, of Escanaba, was named presi­dent of the Hiawathaland Notre Dame Club, com­prising Northern Michigan and Marinette, "Wis., at a meeting of the organization on Universal Night at the home of Henry J, Lauerman. Mar­inette. 
Seventeen members were present at the meeting. The club listened to a broadcast of the primary meeting at Detroit. 
Other officers named on that night were Mctor Wojcihovski, of Kingsford, vice-president: and Francis Langrill, of Marinette, secretary. They will replace Dr. Donald Boycc, of Escanaba, pres­ident : Michael Khonr}', of Ironwood, vice-presi­dent; and 3L S. Corry, of Marinette, secretary. 
Those attending the meeting included: John Lcmmcr, Dr. Donald Boj-cc and Joseph Pofcn­bcrger, Escanaba: Edward Dunda, Walter Schadcr, and Normal Bartholomew. Iron Mountain; Victor Wojciho^'ski. Kingsford: Frank Lauerman, Jr., Joseph Lauerman and Francis Langrill, Marin­ette; and the following of Menominee: Meredith 
H. Doyle. Robert Wall, Paul Kreuz, Michael O'Hara, Fred Barstow, James Glcason and Henr}* 
J. Lauerman. 
A buffet supper was served. 
HOUSTON 
Bryan S. Odcm. *17, 205 Federal Bldg.. Pres­ident; Thomas F. Green. Jr., *27, West Bldg., Conroe. Texas, Sccretarj*. 
This is a list of men who attended the banquet on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Houston Club. Brian S. Odcm. *17. was elected president and at the present time is the United States As­sistant District Attornej- in Houston; George P. Murrin, '27, is practicing law in the Shell Build­ing in Houston and is doing very well: R. C Scoggins, '24, is connected with the Humble Oil and Refining Company as an attomej': John R. Moran, '25. is an attorney for the Continental Oil Company and recently was admitted to practice in Texas after passing the state bar examination: 
R. D. (Bob) French, '29. is connected with E. A. Pierce and Company, stock and bond brokers in the Gulf Building in Houston; Dr. Tom Donovan. *30, is a pediatrician, having graduated from Har­vard Medical School after leaving Notre Dame and after spending four years in Detroit serving bis apprenticeship. 
Jack Drcicr. '30. is in the national advertising business: M. E. Walter. '14, is a city editor of the "Houston Chronicle," the newspaper with the largest circulation in Texas, and is better known as "Soapie Joe"; the guest of honor was Rev. Joseph Kmiccik, C.S.C, '30, who recently returned from Poland, and gave an interesting talk on his experiences under the reign of Joe Stalin; George McHalc, '23. is an architect and building homes in fashionable River Oaks in the city of Houston; Jack M. Powers, *37. is with the Humble Oil and Refining Company doing chemical research, and is located at the refinery at Baytown, Texas. 
Charles S. Atdiison, *30, is head man for the South Texas Development Company with offices in the Commerce Building, Houston; J. N. Powers. *24, is practicing law with offices in the National Standard Building. Houston; Han-ey G. Foster, *39, is working for Uncle Sam and the FBI. 
After the meeting there was enough money left for having Masses said for Johnny "Tex" Yonng, George W. Burkitt and Fred AUnock. 
T. F. Green, Jr. 

INDIANAPOLIS 
August L. Bondi. '30. Metropolitan Life Ins. Co.. Rm. 207, 157 N. Illinois St.. President; Elbert W. Mahoncy, '26, 3936 Central Ave., Sccrctarj'. 

Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated here with a dinner at the Indianapolis Athletic Club with Dean James E. McCarthj*. of the Uni­versity's College of Commerce, as honored guest and principal speaker. 
Dean Mac indulged in many reminiscences and anecdotes which aroused pleasant memories for the 150 alumni, former students and i^ests who attended the meeting. He told also of the tremen­dous progress that has been made by the Uni­versity in the past decade both academically and physically, and outlined some of the plans for the future Notre Dame. 
The club is particularly grateful to the Dean for his fine contribution to our celebration. His address wjis generally conceded to be one of the finest it has been our privilege to hear. 
Another highlight on our {trogram was a talk by Msgr. E. J. Flanagan of Boys Town. Nebr. Father Flanagan was in Indianapolis bctv.*een speaking engagements at Indiana University and other Indiana groups and through the good graces of Frank J. McCarthy was secured for our meeting. 
Father Flanagan spoke briefly of his work at Boys Town and outlined its progress in the successful reclamation of delinquent boys. 
Other speakers were P. C. Rcilly, member of the University Board of Lay Trustees, and AI Feeney, Marion County sheriff. Mr. Reilly told in detail of the recognition being won by Notre Dame graduates in the business world and AI spoke briefly of the club's support of the Boy's State citizenship project at the Indiana State Fair Grounds. 
J. Albert Smith, retiring president of the club, as chairman of the meeting made the speaker in­troductions and gave a resume of club activities during the past year. His report included an ac­count of the excellent work being done by the Placement Committee under Charlie Mason and the Catholic Action committee under Pat Fisher. A! did a swell job, both as president of the club and as guiding light of this meeting and won himself an ovation in appreciation of his work. 
Election of officers was held after a report froni Art Shea, chairman of the nominations committee. August L. Bondi was elected president for the ensuing year. Other officers, who were re-elected from last year are: Thomas Uraphrcy, vice-president; Patrick J. Fisher, treasurer; and myself, secretary. 
Among the outnjf-town members who attended 

the meeting were Elmo Funk and his son, Tom, 
of Anderson, both of whom we would like to have 
at all our future activities. 
El Mahonc}-. 

The Indianapolis Club has announced the estab­lishment of a scbolarship at Notre Dame for a resident of JIarion County who has been gradu­ated from an accredited high school and is eligible to enroll at Notre Dame. The scholarship consists of S300 for one year. The winner of the award will be announced on June 15. 
On the club scholarship committee are George Bischoff, chairman, James E. Decry and J. Leroy Kcach. 
JOLIET. ILLINOIS 
Clarence W. WiDiclmi. ex. *21, 909 Oneida St., President; Edward H. King. Special. 301 Ruby St., Secretary. 

Universal Night was celebrated at the club rooms with great success. A gathering of 50 to 60 members and friends attended. We started the day with a requiem high Mass for the deceased memlMirs, and 20 members received Communion. 
From 6 to 6:15 p.m., Joe Benda. end coach, gave a very interesting talk over radio station WCLS, after which we enjoyed a ver>' good dinner. 
Speakers for the evening were: Pete Bonchetti, who just returned from Europe where he was a representative of the Corn Products Co., but on account of the war conditions was called home. Pete is now supervising the sales in the middle \\est states. The nxt espeaker was Clarence Ruddy, of Aurora, who gave a very interesting talk on the importance of alumni clubs, past and present, to the student body of Notre Dame. Joe B^nda gave a general talk on Xotr Damee. both scholas­tic and athletic, which was well received. 
It was the greatest Universal Night gathering we have ever had. Hcpresentativs frome Campus. Aurora, Morris, Coal City, Lockport, Lemont, and Chatsworth were with us. Ever>-one reported having a good time. Joe Bcnda's streamline went over big. 
Ed II. King. 

JACKSON. MICHIGAN 
Cyril J. Hartman. '23. 612 Webb St.. Pres­ident; Lester J. Wisda, '31, 1017 E. Ganson St.. Secretary. 

On Universal Night we had a very fine get-together of nlumni, former students, friends and the women folk at the Cascades Clubhouse. A dinner started off the occasion followed by tuning in to the Detroit program, our annual business meeting and election of officers. Dancing rounded out the evening. 
The retiring officers were Bill Slarterstcck, *titi, president; Jack Dcsnoyer, ex. '36, vice-president: Tony Mulvancy, *35, secretary; Joe Bchan. '22, treasurer. The new officers are: Cy Hartman, '23, president; Clyde Schammel, '27, vice-presi­dent: Lcs Wisda, *31, secretary, and Dick Tobin, treasurer. 
Other alumni and former students present were Lyman Hill, '29, Byrne Daly, ex. '06. Jim Strong. *31, Carlton Maino, '23, Harr>' Wahl, ex. '31. Jim Trotter, '32, Bill Dottcrwcich, "27. Dr. Bernard Murphy, ex. '29. 
Club members who attended the Detroit club pro­gram were Mr. and Mrs. W. C. O'Brian, '17: Jlr. and Mrs. Leon T. Russell, '17: ISIrs. Loyola Ducey. wife of the late Walter Duccy, '17. 
Les "Wisda. 

KANSAS CITY, (Missouri-Kansas) 
John J. O'Connor, '34, 4133 Mercier St.. Kansas City. Mo., President; Norman M. Bowes. *33. 5525 Rockhill Road,Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night in appropriate fashion with a dinner at the Pine Room of the Fred Har\'ey Restaurant. Upward of 55 alumni, parents of students, and friends* of the Univer­sity, gathered for the occasion. 
Among the guests were the Rt. Rev. Edwin V. O'Hara, Bishop of Kansas City: John H. O'Hara. '08. Little Falls. Mont.: Dean Dugald C. Jackson and Prof. Frank W. Iloran, of the College of Engineering, Notre Dame; and the Rev. Pierre Viens, of Quebec, Canada. Bishop O'Hara, having once taught at the Universit>-. is a Notre Dame man in thought and spirit. Dean Jackson, having taught at Missouri University in 1922, at Kansas University until 1936, and having once been' asso­ciated with the Kansas City Power and Light Co., is a welcome and familiar figure in this district. 
Bishop O'Hara urged a coordination of plan and thought in civic enterprise for Notre Dame alumni, strongly suggested that our programs be based on conservative and practical lines, rather than "on flights of fancy and creatures of.the moment," and praised the placement program of the Alumni Association. Our new prelate is well alive to our situation here, and to what is best for our progress. 
Dean Jackson and Prof. Horan spoke briefly in outlining the progress of the Engineering College. Although we have a minimum of engineer alum­ni, we kept two faculty members engaged in an entertaining informal discussion. 
.•\mong the welcome but heretofore absent alumni were: Uay Conrad, Curt Conrad, Martin Crowe, Paul Duffy, Drcxcl Murray, Ed Seiter, George Smith, mayor, Tom Tobin, and Peter J. Vaughn. In addition to these brethren we had the usual group of regulars, our own "Fifth Column." 
Also worthy of mention was the presence of Lou Alaman, '35, sans shako and sabre; and Joe Bcckmann, '36. They are here with Hall Brothers, a small local stationery firm with branches in Hong Kong, Beirut, Calcutta, and Buenos Aires. 
Father Vincent Mooncy, C.S.C.. was a popular Speaker and quoted authority at the diocesan council on education and social study here late in February. We regret we did not know of his coming beforehand. 
We have heard from Dr. Doug Giorgio, '33. three times in as many years: when he was grad­uated from medical school, when he was married, and recently when he became the father of a red­headed diughter. Doug is with the U. S. Public Health Ser\-ice. at Lewisburg. Pa. 
Art Haley was through here March 7. en route to California. He reported Frather Brennan's handball game was still "in the first division." 
We are supposed to have some place in our midst some newcomers from distant cities. Among them are John Igoe from St. Louis; Bob Doyle from Columbus: and others. If someone could drop us a line with new addresses of those men, we would appreciate it. Dick Prczebel. *36, formerly of Cleveland, is a welcome recruit here. with an advertising firm. 
The third annual St. Patrick's smoker was celebrated with appropriate ceremony and pomp at the Boulevard Manor Rathskeller March 15. Among those sons of Erin, bona fide and other­wise (they h.^ve that problem, too!) Were: Jim Bray, Maurice Carroll. Emmctt Conkling, Jack Donahue, Viace DeCourscy, Dan Foley, Jack Hayes, Dick Kane. Jack O'Connor. Joe O'Brien, Barney Quirk, Richard Bowes, David Crooks. John Dugnn, Tom Reardon, Don Elscr, Higgtns Trio: Charley, Jim. and Tommy, Bill McCarthy, Joe O'Dowd, Hal Quinlan, George Rcinhardt, Joe Kecdy, Joe Waller, Joe Stewart, Bob and Frank Tyler. 
At first glance this would seem to be an irk­some repetition of the same old names; but we would like to go on record that if it were not for the interest and sacrifice of this small "shock troop" the real Notre Dame Alumni platform, conservative, non-counterfeit, and genuine, would bo submerged. 
An auto caravan made the annual pilgrimage, March 4, the anniversary of Knute Rocknc's birth, to the barren slate hills near Cottonwood, Kansas, where the great coach and teacher fell to his death. About ten stout travelers from here made the long trip, 
March was an interesting month for the basket­ball fanatics in this district. We enjoyed National Intercollegiate Tourney, and the regional and national finals of the N.C.A.A. In the first meet Joe Dicnhart, ex. '26. coached a fine little team from St. Joseph's College, Indiana, but he ran afoul a tall teachers* team from Pittsburg, Kansas. 
We received several enthusiastic calls about the Glee Club concert on the Mutual System Sun-d:iy, March 17. Put your calls in writing and forward same to Mutual for best results — say we. 
Military Communique No. 363: John "Jeb Stuart" McGrath made a fierce guerrilla raid along our Linwood Boulevard hot dog joints early in March; after which he retired to the Pettis County hills. His losses are not known. 
We were reminded of Bill Martha, '34, one night recently when we heard John O'Donnell and Doris Fleeson O'Oonnell of the "New York Daily News," give the night news summary from Rome Itab*. Bill used to be indispensable to the O'Donnells at the Washington Bureau; and w*e hope he had the goo<I fortune to make this trip with them. 
, The weekly luncheons on Thursday at Engle­
man's Balcony are drawing bigger crowds. We 
urge all to trj- to make it. 
Norman M. Bowes. 

LOS ANGELES 
Charles S. Gass, '30. 1223 Citizens Nat'I Bank Bldg.. Los Angeles, President; 3Xartin 
B. Daly. ex. '28. 201 Denslow Ave., W. Los Angeles, Secretary. 

The Universal Notre Dame Night • dinner at Eaton's here in Los Angeles brought out a good crowd. One hundred and twenty-five members and a few guests made up a crowd that taxed the facilities of the banquet room. As our total mem­bership is about 300 we had not expected quite as big a turnout but there was room for everybody even though there was some crowding to get elbow room for eating. 
Charles Gass, our president, and Jim McCabc. who headed the committee for this meeting, opened the speaking about 8 o'clock after a late start in eating. We were unable to get the eastern broad­cast at 5:30 due to congestion at the local radio stations, so we relied on our own program. After the opening remarks the meeting was turned over to Pat O'Brien as toastmaster. As Pat had ap­peared at the national affair three j'ears ago and is playing the lead in the forthcoming "Life of Knutc Rockne" picture being made at Warner Bros., we considered ourselves lucky to be able to have him run this party. If his performance in thfi picture is as pood as his performance as toa&lmaster, it will rate top honors. 
We heard from Bob Fellows, who is in charge of the picture. Art Haley, who is out here as tech­nical adviser, and Bill Guthrie, who is location manager for Warner Bros. As Fellows is from U.C.L.A., and Guthrie is an S.C. man, we heard all the angles on the picture and school, and it sounded like something the school can be proud of, whatever way you heard it. Art Haley also threw in some of the recent news from school that we were all glad to hear. 
Then we had the pleasure of having Clarence Layden, Elmer's brother, introduced. He had made the trip up from Long Beach just to be with us, and it was a pleasure for all of us. Joe Scott made one of his speeches that if any­one else made it would be a sensation, and every­one agreed that Joe was in his usual good form. We heard a few words from H. E. "Hoot" King, '16, and Frank^ "Bucky" Welsh, who were team­mates of Rocknc's. Then "Dutch" Ronald Regan, who will play the part of George Gipp in the pic­ture, was presented and made a very good im­pression. Frank Scully, who got to be well known to so many of the team members when he was in Tucson, then gave us a few words. Then last but not least Slarty Brill said hello, and the eve­ning wound up with the usual get-together that always follows a Notre Dame meeting. A swell time was had by all. 
AVe missed one member that we all knew. Harr>- Newmark, 'IS. was unable to attend. He is laid up in bed^and. according to his letter, he surely missed the gathering and seeing all the crowd. He is now at 325 S. Boyle Ave., Room 4lS, and would appreciate hearing from or seeing any of the crowd he has been a member of for so long a time. 
The showing of the "Highlights of 1939" took place of our May meeting, and the plans for the June one have not as yet been former. 
Thanks to the help of the Alumni Office, we are now able to get notices to about a hundred "lost" members, and hope soon to have all their correct addresses so as to eliminate loss of time in getting them notices. We found all our lists so old that we are junking them and getting new cards in our index so that we can do this. The new cards are rolling in every day and should give us the com­plete new and up-to date list soon. Thanks. 
Marty Daly. 
MEMPHIS 
DonncII McCormack, '36, 196 E. Parkway, S., President; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27, Colum­bian Mutual Tower, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Memphis celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at the Peabody Hotel here in Memphis, with a banquet, some 35 mem­bers of the club being in attendance. It was one of the most enjoyable get-togethers of Notre Dame men we have had in a long time. 
DonncII McCormack presided as president, Galvin Hudson, past president, who has been very active in trj'ing to arrange for Greg Rice's arpcarancc here, as one of the competitors in the athletics events of the Memphis Cotton Carnival, spoke and expressed the hopes that Mr. Rice would be able to attend the meet here. He also ex­pressed words of consolation with re5T>ect to the passing of our track coach, Mr. John Nicholson. 
The club listened with a groat deal of interest to Mr. McRae, the new coach at Christian Brothers College, who was a guest for the ban­quet. It is confidently expected that Mr. McRae will be a successful football mentor at C.B.C. 
Austin Hall, Jerry Foley and a number of the other boys made short humorous talks, which further enlivened the meeting. The occasion was topped off' with a showing of the pictures includ­ing the highlights of the Notre Dame 1939 football season. 
We were not so fortunate this year as in the past years in being able to hear the national radio program in connection with Universal Notre Dame l^ght. WMPS ordinarily has carried this program here in Memphis. This year, a commer­cial program was carried at this hour. Also, wo were unable to tune in on any of the stations in. the nearby to'wns which carried the program. 
We are making plans for our annual barbecue and picnic, to be held shortly after the present students at Notre Dame arrive for the summer vacations. 
Bailey Walsh. 
MILWAUKEE 
John J. Burke. *35, 110 E. Wisconsin. Alilwaukce. President; John E.Claudcr. *3-l, 1219 W. \nict St., Secretary. 
SHEBOYGAN SECTOR 
Just a few notes on the status quo of the She­boygan Notre Dame delegation located up here on the north shore. 
My brother Ray, ex. '35, became the proud father of a baby boy. Jacob HI. on March 4. 
Universal Notre Dame N'ght six of us drove down to Milwaukee to join the Milwaukee Club in observing the event at a dinner at the Milwau­kee Athletic Club. Our gang consisted of Lcn Hoppe, Bill and Moose Gottsackcr, my brothers. Art and Wally, and myself. My brother Art hap­pened to be at home for his spring vacation at the University of Wisconsin, so he was glad of the opportunity to join some of his former class­mates in a Notre Dame get-together. Art will graduate from the Wisconsin L.aw School in June. 
The Gottsackcr brothers are in the insurance business, as also is Lcn Hoppc My brother Ray is doing nicely as a mortician. Other Notre Damers in this dairyland capital are: John Meyer, 
•who is working in the local postoffice. 
Edward Davey, who finished in law at the Uni­versity of AVisconsin, is now a local barrister. 
Mcr\Tn "Jim" Gorman, ex. '39, who is man­aging the Sheboygan Theatre of the Warner chain and whose engagement to Miss Ruth Hamacheck was recently announced. 
Clemens A. Rciss, is vice-president of the C. Reiss Goal Co. 
And yours truly still hangs his hat in the Reiss Coal Co. office every morning. 
Last night I was in Milwaukee to help cele­brate John Brust's forthcoming marriage to Marge Twohig, of Fond du Lac, at a grand din­ner and dancing partj-. John and Paul Bmst are enterprising Milwaukee architects, and Paul is responsible for the fine design of the Church of SL John the Evangelist presently being con­structed in Sheboygan's "suburb," the village of Kohler, which has frequently received national recognition for its beauty and excellent plan. It is Kohler's first Catholic Church and is beautifully planned as to architecture and setting. 
Bill Nuss, of Fond du Lac. was also at the pre­nuptial party. He is now a practicing attorney in Fond du Lac 
Heard recently, too, from Charlie A. Quinn. who is in New York with Ginn & Co., and also from Joe Ratigan. of Bordentown, N. J., who is in the insurance business in his home town. 
Jim Gcrcnd. 
Ed OToole, Chicago, director of the Alumni Association and chairman of the Placement Com­mittee of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, was one of the speakers at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the club. Ed discussed the place­ment activities of the Association and, in his c:ipacity as national coordinator of club place­ment work, made suggestions for the guidance of the Milwaukee group in that field. Charles 
A. O'Neill was appointed chairman of the Mil­waukee Placement Committee following the talk. 
Another talk, scheduled in the advance an­nouncement, was by John Voss, head of the U. S. Secret Service in Wisconsin on the subject, "What Every Business Jlan Should Know about Counter­feit Money." 
MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.) 
Lester Lovier. *26, 604 N. Madison St, 
Rome, President; Edward J. Sweeney, *30. 
1415 MtUcr St.. Utica, Secretary. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in grand style by the Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Valley. A dinner was held at the Hotel Utica at 7 p.m. Tbere were about 65 present, both alumni and other friends of Notre Dame. Through the courtesy of the local radio station. "WIBX. a program was heard. Yours truly spoke for three minutes. 
A letter of congratulations ^vas forwarded to Bishop O'Hara and signed by the alumni present. 
The alumni present were: Vincent Fletcher. '32. Gcorec Riditcr. '32. Hubert Glancy. '32. John Rush. '32, Lester Lovier, '26, William Lynch. '38, Edward Sweeney, '30, Dr. John Kelley, '24.. Dr. Daniel Shauehncss)-, '30, Frank Donalty. '32, Charlie Hitzclbergcr, '32. Leo Rees, '30, Ed Mc-LauffhUn. '24, Hcno* Lipsie. '38. Bob Ser\-atius, '29, Walt Piscck, '37, Leo Clark, '32, Don Fullem, '31. Bob Fitzgerald. '29, Bill McKec, '38. Jim Hcrbst. '37. Jim Griffin. '38, Frank Lederman, '30, and Cliff Lederman, *31. 
We plan to have a dinner dance some time during the summer at which occasion all the wives and sweethearts will be invited. 
Interesting to note is the fact that an enthusi­astic bunch of fellows around 17-20 years of age have formed a club to boost Notre Dame. They are saving mon ^ weekly, and they have a treas­

urcr, to attend the Army game this coming November. Ed Sweeney. 
The former Notre Dame Club of Utica, now called the Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Valley, has been taking active measures to reunite and again become a "live wire" club in central New York. At a meeting, held March 29 at Hotel Utica, the following otHcers were elected: Lester Lovier, '26, Rome, president; A. C Hitzclberscr, Jr., '32, Utica.vice-president; Edward J. Sweeney, '30, Utica, secretary; and Frank Donalty. '32, Utica. treasurer. 
In the past years, the Utica Club of Notre Dame was ver>* active in this locality and had many outstanding and most successful social functions. AVe are attempting to make a come-back and again locate ourselves in this vicinity. 
Ed Sweeney. 

MONTANA 
Edward F. Simonich, '39, Carroll College. Helena. President; Edward C. Brown. '99. Box 8S5. Helena. Sccrctars". 

We had our annual meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Montana on April 10 at Carroll College in Helena. In spite of the fact that we had a mild blizzard, which I assure you is something ver>- unusual for Slontnna at any time; we had a fair attendance — 24 of us sitting down to a splendid banqret prepared by the Sisters at Car­roll College. It was one of the nicest meetings we have ever had, and Ed Simonich was elected president for the ensuing year, and Ray Cowles, secretary. 
We enjoyed the pictures very much, and espe­cially so as Ed Simonich told us the names of the players caro'ing the ball during the blocking, etc. In this connection, I want to say that the students and faculty of Carroll College are very enthusiast tic over Ed Simonich and his work. The same attitude is held by the people of Helena, and we hope to have him as a permanent fixture. 
Ed C. Brown. 

NEW JERSEY 
Daniel J; O'Neill. '26, 184 N. Walnut St., East Orange. President; Harvey P. Rock­wcll» '34. 1202 Essex House, 1048 Broad St., Newark, Sccrctao*. 

Past Activities 
Universal Notre Dame Night this year was out­standing from all counts. An excellent chairman aided by a hard-working committee prepared the stage for a fine toastmaster to introduce an im­pressive list of speakers to a large local radio audience and an enthusiastic alumni banquet. 
Our most sincere thanks to the University for letting us enjoy such an illustrious member of the Congregation as Father Gene Burke, and we mean enjoy! We hadn't realized Father Burke's proclivities as a Hollywood producer but are duly impressed, and eager to see Rockne live again in the person of Pat O'Brien. We hope the University will make some 16 mm. prints of this picture for future freshmen welcomes and similar gatherings. 
We enjoyed the first hand news of the campus with the ever improving conditions. Father also told us of the Symposium on Physics and the fine work done by the University psysicists (We can remember "Coomsie" when he called a radio circuit analyzer a "whoosis." Also why J. J. O'Brien said, "This is no place for me"). 
Father told us of the fine work in apologetics as well as the many other achievements. He told MS of the tribute paid to John Neeson for his work in behalf of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
llien Toastmaster Art Leamond introduced: Francis Wallace, who gave a most interesting talk, brought out a very good point made by Rockne -when he said, "It's tetter to Kive the boys foot­balls than guns." 
Dr. Mai Stevens was vcrj' much with us. We enjoyed his tcllins us oC taking his small son to see N.Y.U. play football. Sad to relate, they were beaten, and the small boy said. "Daddy, your players ain't so hot." Mai assured us, the only way he could respond was, "Sonny, don't say ain't." 
Joe Byrne (We called him commissioner last month) was nothing short of inspirational when he developed the theme "Notre Dame Traditions are its Men." It's very nice to have Joe continue to' show such keen interest in his "boys" when he is so busy with municipal affairs. 
And did you know that Sal Bontcmpo is be­coming a radio producer of the "lightning" vari­ety? We say lightning advisedly because with a few hours' notice he whipped into shape a very fine program to honor Rocknc on Monday, April 
1. He was aided by Bill Carter, Ed A*on Hocnc. and J. Donald Sullivan. 
In addition Sal engineered the local broadcast of 
Universal Notre Dame Night over WHBI which 
just preceded the National Net. 
Gene Farrcll, whose son is now at N. D., was 
at the banquet with his other son, who plans to 
go to N. D. soon. 
Ray Troy was present, along with Jack Win­
bcrrj- and the two stalwart O'Kccfcs, Andy and 
Jack. Dr. O'Toole came in from Pittsburgh, and 
it was good to see him again. 
Try as he might, our own Dr. Paul "Buckj-" 
O'Connor couldn't avoid the spotlight because all 
the speakers alluded to his prowess in glowing 
terms. 
Future Events 
Plans for the Day at the Shore are progressing as is the Constitution recreation. Before long both committees will be digging in their teeth and going to work. 
Note 
If Bob Cahill reads this it is intended to be verbal chastisement for his harsh treatment of the writer in his column last month. However, Bob, a man of your attainments surely deser\'es a letter and one will be forthcoming. 
Har\ey P. Rockwell, Jr. 

NEW ORLEANS 
Charles dc la Vcrgnc, '25, 1102 Maritime BIdg.. President; Austin Boyle. '31, 621 Bourbon St., Secretary. 

All officers were re-elected at the Universal* Notre Dame Night dinner, April 15. after the initial business of hard-boiled crabs, shrimp, crawfish, cold cuts, beer and pretzels had been attended to. 
Voted new terms were Charles E. de la Vergnc, president; J. Val LcBlanc. vice-president; Austin Boyle, secretary, and A- L. Vittcr, Jr., treasurer. Patrick E. Burke, 'SS, our honorary president, was voted his ottice for life. 
The club maintained its record of never hearing a Universal Notre Dame Night broadcast, again with the best of intentions. As in other years, a radio was brought along, but failed to pick up the program. Joe Drolla, our voodoo authority, is investigating the possibility of a "hex." 
The members decided to sponsor a public show­ing of the "Highlights of luao Notre Dame Foot­ball" film. May II, in Sacred Heart auditorium. Fred Disby, Jr., is handling tickets. The band of Holy Cross College, a prep school conducted by the Holy Cross Brothers here, will play. 
We were disappointed when Greg Rice, great distance runner developed by the late Coach John Nicholson, was unable to appear here. April 21, for a scheduled three-mile race with Taisto Maki. the Finn. An injury to his foot kept him in South Bend. Members had planned to welcome him at the airport. 
Fabian Johnston, A. L. Vittcr, Sr., Jim Favrct and Bill Drcux helped plan the dinner, which was a success, although some of the old reliables failed to show. Jack McCarthy had the "flu." Lionel Favrct was out of town, and Bolan Burke end vice-president LeBlanc were unable to come. Jules dc la Vcrgnc arrived late, to find only pretzels left. 
Fathers Kelly, Ryan and O'Connell, C.S.C., all stationed at Sacred Heart Church here, turned out. Cyp, "Minnie" and Ed Sporl came, "Minnie" telling of a new house and a new daughter. Mar>­Patrice. Emil "Judge" Tclfel made the meeting after returning from the convention of southern colleges and secondary schools at Atlanta. Al Kilcy advises he is with the Louisiana Light & Power Company now. 
Austin Boyle. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Howard Parker, 'IT, 219 State Bldg., San 
Francisco, Secretary. 

The third annual Rockne Memorial Retreat was held at the Jesuits' EI Retiro from March 23 to April I under the enthusiastic and successful chairmanship of Kccne Fitzpatrick. With the pic­ture of the attentlants, which appears on this page, Keene sent this word. "Since this Retreat is conducted with great seriousness, observed with almost total silence over a period of three days, you may be sure that it is most impressive and most gratifying to the participants. . . . Our new-president. Father Hush O'DonnclI, sent me a very inspiring and encouraging letter for the men and sincere gratitude for the Jesuit Fathers who con­ducted the Retreat. All were deeply impressed and most thankful for this evidence of generous interest." 
NEW YORK CITY 
Robert A. Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St.. Pres­ident; Paul Maholchic. ex. '33, C.Y.O., 485 Madison Ave., Secretary. 
Over 400 members of the Notre Dame Club of New York commemorated the 17th annual observ­ance of Universal Notre Dame Night with a din-' ner at the Hotel Pennsylvania. 
Very Rev. Msgr. John J. Casey, secretary to his Excellency Archbishop Francis J. Spellman and representing the Archbishop, brought his warmest wishes and regards to all Notre Dame alumnu Msgr. Casey stated that the University, "has no warmer or more sincerer friend," than the Arch­bishop. 
The Very Rev. Robert I. Gannon, president of Fordham, praised Notre Dame for its spiritual, patriotic, educational and other ideals. He said that the fundamental philosophy of the University was "not interested in importing skills but atti­tudes." and her chief interest was developing char­acter of the highest type and that education to its students is only a means, not an end! 
District Attorney O'Dwyer. of Brooklyn, another principal speaker, said he came from a race given to violent enthusiasms, and declared that the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame is one of those enthusiasms. 
Our guests included: John A. Coleman, chair­man of Catholic Charities; William Cotter, farmer president of the Alumni Association; George J. Schaeffer, president of R.K.O.; J. T. Hanley. first assistant district attorney of Brooklyn; Frank C. Walker, former chairman of President Roosevelt's Recovery Council: Col. E. ^V. Yeayer, of the 
U. S. Army, stationed at Governor's Island; the Rev. James P. Lynch, assistant director of finance of Catholic Charities; Messrs. J. Caffery, regional administrator of SEC; Frank Meehan, SEC coun­sellor, and the following Catholic alumni repre­sentatives: Paul T. O'Keefe. Fordham; Robert E. Curry, Georgetown; Walter O'Malley, Manhattan; Edward Holland, Holy Cross; Paul Prendergast, St. Francis; Walter Rcardon, Villanova; and John Sabbotos. Duquesne. 
Robert A. Hamilton, president of the local club presided, and John A. Hoyt, Jr., was the toast­master. The entertainment featured a skit by Abbott and Costello, and Brian CMara. sensa­tional Irish tenor. Piano selections were rendered by Dr. Owen Jones, composer. 
Three hundred New York alumni attended the Rockne Communion Mass on March 31, celebrated by Bishop John F. O'Hara, at Our Lady Chapel, St. Patrick's Cathedral. Breakfast followed at the New York A. C. with 240 persons taking part in the fine program arranged by Jack Lavelle. 
There Bishop O'Hara told us something of his present work, a program that amazed his hearers, and asked for volunteer workers in his activity at St. Cecelia's, in New York's Porto Rican dis­trict. 
Coach John P. Nicholson, whose death two days later was shocking news, paid tribute to Rockne and complimented the club on the number attend­ing Mass and Communion. He then introduced Greg Rice, sensational distance runner, who that same evening cracked the three-mile record in Madison Square Garden. Rice was presented with a wallet and spoke briefly of his "intentions for the evening." 
Laetore Medalist Richard Reid, editor of "Oith­olic News"; Frank Wallace, author; and Frank Graham, "N. Y. Sun" sports writer, were Uie otiier principal speakers. Noted alumni and guests were introduced. Chairman Ja A Larelle'i 
stories maintained their high for humor. 
Attending the Rockne Memorial Retreat of the Northern California Club were: Top row: 1) William Peters, 2) Tom Forbes, 3> Joe Moitoza, 4) A. Moitoza, 5) Bob Beckley; Second Row: The Memorial Commanioa Breakfast waa also 1) Rob Henry. 2) Luke Kelly, 3) L. Diebeb, 4) A. Ward, 3) E. A. Bander. 6) John Bander. 7) the Club's Father and Son Day. Fathers of many Joe Weeden; Third Row: 1) Father J. Crowley, 2) H. Halton, 3) Ed McFadden. 4) J. E. Brophy. 
5) Carroll Simon, 6) W. Wilson. 7) Dan Haley. 8) H. Tuckey, 9) George Marphy. 10) T. O. of the alomnt and of Notre Dame undergraduates Dolan; On Steps: Father McFadden, V. McCarthy, E. D. Carreras, P. J. Flsnnagan, Dan Murphy; were in attendance. Fourth Row: 1) Charles Knights, 2) Father Ring, 3) Keene Fitzpatrick. 4) Florence McAnliffe, 
5) Harry M. Slater. A buffet supper was the innovation of the April 
meeting at the Centre Club headquarters. Forty early tlrds paid 65 cents each for the meal, atid their satisfied expressions testified that at the next supper attendance will triple. 
ITie meal aided also in gettine the meetinj* started promptly at eipht o'clock when over 150 members had gathered. James J. Caffrey. regional director of the N. Y. office of the SEC, spoke on the enforcement work of the SEC, told what ser­^'ices are offered the public, and illustrated how the public is protected. At the conclusion of his informative talk Frank J. Meehan, co-author of the Securities Exchange Act, and now technical advisor on SEC problems, answered questions from the audience. There were many, too, some of which caused Mr. Meehan and Mr. Caffrey to con­fer before giving answer. 
Thanks to Charlie Donahue, the entertainment phase of the meeting was provided by Martin McEvilly, picture editor of the "N. Y, Daily News," who gave an exciting and amusing talk on the stories b^lnd the "News" pix and illus­trated his points with slide pictures. 
Two of the door prizes, merchandise certificates, 
went to Ollic SchcU and Waller Grccr, thus dis­
pelling rumors about the luck of the class of '29. 
Bernic Garbcr. 
NORTHERN NEW YORK (NEW CLUB) 
Ralph M. Cardinal, Jr., '37, 70 Frank St,, 
Malonc. President; M. C. Tacklcy, '34, 96 
W. Main St., Malonc, Secretary'­
The Northern New York obser\'ance of Notre Dame Night turned out to be the birth of the Northern New York Notre Dame alumni club with Ralph M. Cardinal, '37, elected president. Clare Taro. ex. '33, vice-president, and myself, secretary-treasurer. 
There were 20 N. D. alumni and former stu­dents present. Had we been able to contact every­one in the district, we might have had a larger crowd. However, our list of alumni and ex-students was incomplete at the time. We plan on having a much larger representation at our next meeting this summer. Many expressed a desire to have a get-together either in August or Sep­tember at the local countrj* club. 
Cornelius J. Carey, Jr., '30. Franklin County judge and surrogate, addressed the assemblage as did Father Don Gallagher, '24, of Bloomingdale. Both Judge Carey and Father Gallagher gave some interesting highlights on their college days at N. D. and spoke fittingly and pointedly on the advantages of a Notre Dame education. 
The pictures of the Ohio State-Notre Dame game of 1935 proved the "coup d'etat" of the evening's entertainment. Bill Conroy, local high school teacher and ex-football coach, who acted as master of ceremonies, was so impressed by the pictures that he urged a second showing of them for the benefit of the local Franklin Academy football team and other football fans in town. For that reason. I held over the pictures for a few days so as to show them again to the public Bill Conroy. although not an N. D. student, at­tended one or tivo of the Rockne football sessions while they were being held. 
We tried in vain to tune in on the N. D. pro­gram, but Bangor. Maine, seemed to be the near­est station to carry the program. It was impos­sible to get it, I suppose on account of the high altitude in these parts. We made up for it. how­ever, by the singing of the "Victory March,** ac­companied by Clare Taro's two-fingerod piano playing. 
In attendance at the celebration, which was In the form of a dinner at the local Flanagan Hotel, was Ralph Cardinal, Ken Mahoncy. John Mur­phy, Ken McGuirc, Ed Gagnicr, Joe Daigncault. J>o Cantwell. Bill Brown. Joe Valois, Clare Taro, Father Gallagher, Judge Carey, and myself. Guests who never attended Notre Dame, but who are 

N. D. alumni in spirit included Tom McKee, father of George McKcc, '34 .and Seminarian Robert McKce, *37, who will be ordained next week, Mitch Kooo', who is an N.D.-Army game "regular." and a prospective student whose name has escaped me. 
Mike Tacklcy. 

OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A- LaFortune, ex. *18. Nat'I Bank of Tulsa Bldg.. Tulsa. President; Carl J. Scngcr, '37, 1204 S. Cheyenne, Tulsa, Scc­rctar?'­

Amid the joys and pheasant memories by the obser^-ance of the Universal Notre Dame Night. the hand of God took from among us one of our most promising young members. Richard C. Stueve, Jr., '3S. was buried Monday morning, April 17, 1940. Like many a real Notre Dame man "R.C.,** as he was called by his friends, died suddenly. Killed almost instantly in a car acci­dent. And like all good Notre Dame men. he was prepared. Ho lived a life fitting a Notre Dame man for he learned his lessons well at school and experienced the parting sadness a "true Notre Dame man does at graduation. Though his life was short, his accomplishments were great and Notre Dame can well be proud of him. 
The members said the rosary for him which was led by Bobby Siegfried. 'SS. In addition to reciting the rosarj*, members in the name of the club sent a floral tribute, had Masses said, and attended the funeral in a body. 
Through the Ruidance of our outstanding pres­ident. J. A. La Fortune, and with the assistance of his committee, consisting of Marion J. Blakc. Bobby Siegfried, John O'Hcm, Bill Conr>', Frank Rcidy, Jim Rcidy, and Carl J. Scngcr, a grand program for the observance of the Universal Notre Dame Night was arranged. The local activities started at 5:15 p.m. with a broadcast over IVlsa's radio station KOilE of the Mutual Broadcasting System. 
Under the direction of Hillis Bell, ex. '22. Afarion Blakc, and Carl J. Scngcr, a very inter­esting broadcast was prepared. With Hillis. man­ager of station KOMC as master of ceremonies, the following members took part: Marion J. Blakc gave a short announcement about the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Frank Reidy, '37. for­mer member of the Glee Club, sang the Victory March. J. A. La Fortune gave a short talk on the history of Notre Dame. As a last public tribute to our good friend, R, C. Stueve, Jr.. '38, the Ave Maria was dedicated to him. As the program neared its completion Bill Ccrncj-, assistant football coach at Notre Dame, was intro­duced to the radio audience by Hillis Bell. After giving a short address on Notre Dame of Today, Bill was quizzeil by members in the studio. 
Many complimentary remarks were received and we feel the program was well received by the public 
Gathering at the Tulsa Club at 6 o'clock a grand dinner and program was enjoyed by all present. Presiding for the evening w.is J. A. La Fortune. After the dinner the national broadcast from Detroit was tuned in and thoroughly enjoyed by everyone. It was indeed a splendid program and many fond memories of the days spent at Notre Dame were recalled. Following this. J. A. La Fortune introduced Bill Cemcy, assistant football coach, who spoke about Notre Dame's football team and the team's prospects for the coming season. After finishing his speech Bill showed pictures of the Notre Dame-Southern California game and described the plays as they were shown. 
A very delightful evening was sjwnt and everj-­one truly enjoyed the program very much. Those present were: Charles A. Black, Marion J. Blake, John F. Boyle, William E. Conry, Leo Fagan. 
John Faulkner, Thom.ts Friend, Dick Hoff, J. A. La Fortune, Joseph Lantry. Charles McNamar, Charles A. McNamara, Tom Moore, E. F. Moran, John Moran, Joseph A. Moran, John L. O'Hcm, Frank Rcidy, James Rcidy, Robert Siegfried, Carl 
J. Scngcr, Spike SulH\-an, Lloyd Worlcy, Hcnrs' McGarvcy, Paul Forske, Thomas Mcinhart, Clar­ence Olson, Heno* C. Becker, H. F. Worlcy, Ray 
H. Siegfried, Fred La Fortune. J. A. Padon. D. 
E. Horrigan, Joseph Skellej-. and W. K. Warren. 
Oil City. Ri.. is well represented in the Reidy brothers. Martin Rcidy, '32. came to Tulsa in 1034 and has since that time been connected w-ith the Consolidated Pipeline Company, a sub­sidiary of Sinclair Refining Company. Martin is married and has three children. Frank Reidy, '37, came to Tulsa immediately after graduation and started to work for the Warren Petroleum Cor­poration. Jim Rcidy, '32, worked in Rochester, 
N. Y., until 193S when he journeyed to the "Oil Capital." He, too, is working for AVarren Petro­leum Corporation. The latter two are not married as yet but one can never tell what may happen. The Reidy brothers are doing fine and take an active part in the club affairs. 
Carl J. Scngcr. 

Bobby Siegfried, *3~, as chairman of the enter­tainment committee, inaugurated the first Annual Young Men's Night for one of Oklahoma's largest Catholic men's dinner clubs, the Crozier Club of Tulsa. His program, well planned and organized, turned out to be a review, if you please, of Notre Dame men at their best. Bobby, with the poise and the mastery of a seasoned master of cere­monies, handled that assignment in highly com­mendable stylo. The speakers were: Lloyd Wor­lcy, '39, who choFC for his topic. "Bishop O'Hara is Consecrated," as the outstanding religious event of the past month. Carl J. Scngcr. '37. chose the "Returning of Will Rogers* Body to Claremore" as his topic for the outstanding state event of the past month. 
Joe McNuIty, '37, spoke on "Social Security" as the outstanding national event. Pat Malloy, '3S, spoke on ''Politics and Citj' Elections" as the out­standing city event. Judge Tom D. Lyons, '04, the principal speaker of the evening, spoke on "Reli­gion and the Nation." It was a very inspiring speech and was received with great interest. TTie Judge stressed the important role Notre Dame plays in this field. 
Judge Lyons has added another honor to his long record of outstanding accomplishments, that of writer and author. It was in the March issue of "The Commonweal" with the article "Lake Badus Parish" that he received national recogni­tion. The theme of his article centers around the life one lived In the Dakota Territory. 
Carl J. Senger. 

PHILADELPHIA 
William A, A. Caslcllini. *22, Franklin In­stitute, Parkway at 20th, President; E. Bradley Baile.v, ex. '23, 260 S. Broad St., Secretary. 

Honored as the founder of Universal Notre Dame Night, John H. Nccson, C.E. '03, Director of Public Works of Philadelphia, was the recipient of congratulations from Mayor Robert E. Lamber-ton, cabinet memVers. judges, department heads, industrialists, brnkers, educators. Brother E. Anselm. P.S.C.. president of La Salle College, and friends of Notre Dame when 300 prominent Fhila­delphians attended a ceremony at the City Hall. Monday noon, April 15. 
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, CS-C, acting in behalf of the Universitj'. presented Mr. Neeson with an illuminated scroll, and E. Bradley Bailey, secre­tary of the club, gave him a replica of the gold dome in recognition of his leadership as a Cath­olic layman and the services to his Alma Mater. 
Radio activity included a broadcast over KYW by Father Burke,-Thomas E, Byrne, retirinjc presi­dent of the Philadelphia Notre Dame Club. E. Bradley Bailey, and Director Necson. The na­tional broadcast of the Detroit propram was re­bror^dcast by ^VFIL. The half hour recording; was received throush n Phiico Radio installed by their courtesy for the occasion. 
We have our hard working public relations di­rector. Bill Castellini, '22. to ihank for the clock-like minner with which everythins functioned from the time Father Burke arrived . . . his visit to the shrine of Benjamin Franklin in the Frank­lin Institute . . . the ceremony for John Nceson in the mayor's office . . . the Inr^est banquet we ever held on a Universal Notre Dame Nisht or in fact on any occasion, and the broadcasts over two powerful radio stations, WFIL and KYW, which blanket this area. 
Bill saw to it that the four Philadelphia dallies, as well as the suburban papers, total circulation close to 2,250,000, carried pictures and plenty of news stories. Local radio news commentators pluRKcd Universal Notre Dame Night — over Stations WCAU, .A\TIL and KYW. 
Father Burke iravc us the inside chatter on Hollywood . . . soil! fellows . . . look for n migration from Philadelphia .. . to the Kleig lights — he surely made the life on the "West Co«st romantic. 
Men of Notre Dame present at Universal Notre Dame Night banquet: Rev. John Molter, C.S.C-. Rev. Bernard C. Farley, club chaplain. Gerald Ashe, K. J. Armstrong, Ed Bailey, Tom Blissard. 
D. E. Boyle, Dan Brady, John J. Brady, Conal Byrne, T. E. Byrne. Jr.. William A. A. CastelHni. Eugene Cattte, Pat Conway. William E. Cooncy, Joseph D'Amora, William "Bill" J. Dal>'. Dc­lancey Davis, Gerald T. and H. P. Degcn, Henry Dcndler. 
Vincc Donahue, Charles M. Dougherty, H. E. Duke. Jim Fogartj*. Harrj- Francis. Bryan Hayes, Dr. William Johnson. Jack Kenncy. M. W. Lam­mers, Joseph Mahoncy. Charles J. iMcKinney, Richard McClure. John H. Necson. John Necson. Jr., W. J. Nolan, Jim O'DonnclI. 
Walter Philipp, Clifford Prodchl, Jack and Walter R. Ridley. Clipper Smith, A. J. Stopper. Mr. Trctton, Mr. Rawler. James Nolcn, Jr., Mr. ICain, Ed Winters. 
Among the speakers and guests of honor at of the dinner were Rev. James W. Gibbons, of "Men of Malvern." Lay Retreat League; Rev. John Molter. C.S.C., Newman Hall. University of Pennsylvania: Rev. Bernard C. Farley, Chap­lain of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia; Father Enright. Wilmington, Del.: Rev. Canon George L Baldwin: Walter Alessandroni. scc'y to Mayor Robert B. Lamberton: Fred Frick, Rend­ing Railroad; James J. D. Spillane, executive vice-president Benjamin Eshleman Advertising Co.; Benjamin F. Busch, Jr.. executive in charge of Plans & Marketing, Benjamin Ilshlemnn Adver­tising Company: Jcmph A. Donahue. Board of Mercantile Appraisers. City of Philadelphia and "Man of Malvern"; Phillip Fisher, executive de­partment of Public Works; Dick O'Donnell, Bu­reau of Engineering: Leo Masterson. Bureau of Engineering: John J. O'Donnell: Carl Saxon, in­dustrial engineer. National Dair>- Products Co.: Maurice Merryfiold, public relations counselor. Phiico Radio & Television Corp.: E. R. Rose, public relations director. United Campaign : George 
W. Elliott, general secrotarj*, Philadelphia Cham­ber of Commerce: Walter A. Correll, vice-presi­dent. John Lucas & Co.. Inc.. and outstanding Rotarian; Samuel R. Rosenbaum. president of Radio Station ^VFIL. 
Parents of present N. D. students included: 
T. E. Byrne. Sr., Joseph P. Cattie. John F. Cor­rigan, F. H. Frick. Michael J. McKeon, Thomas McLoughlin, Joseph LeSlrangc, Joseph J. Toland. Thomas E. Lewis. 
Ed Bailey and Cliff Prodehi. 
HONORS M'HERE HONORS ARE DUE 

Almost the entire adult life of John H. Nceson has been devoted to two lines of work. He received his degree from the College of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame in 1903. He entered the scr%-ice of Philadelphia on March 1. 1906. Since that date he has been unfailine in hi^ numerous services to both. 
Suitably enough, rewards have come from both alma mater and city. The latter has steadily recognized Mr. Neeson's ability by consistent and dcscr%-cd promotions. Since he became assistant superintendent of bridges in 1906, he has been assitant engineer, principal assistant engineer and deputy chief of the Bureau of Engineer­ing in the Department of Public Works. Also, he has ser\'ed as chief engineer and surveyor and in other capacities. Mayor Lambcrton showed his appreciation of Mr' Keeson's years of scirice and ability by making him Director of the Department of Public Works. 
Within the last few days Notre Dame has shown its appreciation of the man who* while engaged in the multiple duties of city improvements, found time to render many scr>-iecs to the school from which he was graduated. Mr. Nceson was presented with a scroll reciting his services, and as the founder of the Universal Notre Dame Night was given a Notre Dame Gold Dome. 

Onranization of the movement for alumni of the famous Indiana institution to hold reunions throughout the world on one night each year was a demonstration of Mr. Nceson's ability for making move­ments practical. His unceasing efforts in such municipal problems as highways, street cleaning, drainage, grade- crossing abolition, zoning and construction of the Philadelphia Municipal Airport won him honors from the city. He is an outstand­ing example of the ability of a man of attainments and accomplishments to win recognition. 
—"Philadelphia Public Ledger.*' 

ROCHESTER 
William E. ^Icrriman, '2.>, 646 Ridgeway Ave.. President; William T. Whclehan, *39, 4110 Lake Ave., Secretary. 

A large numher of local alumni gathered at the Rochester Club for a dinner to celebrate Universal Noire Dame Night. After an introductory speech by our president, William Mcrriman, stating the origin and purpose of the nationwide event. Father Brutos, pastor of St. Margaret Mary'.s Qiurch, delivered an inspiring talk. Joseph Flynn, past president, and president grand knight of the Rochester Council of the Knights of Columbus, spoke briefly. 
Charlie Norton, '39, formerly employed by Bur­roughs, is now working at Michaels Stem Cloth­ing Co.. here in Rochester in the accounting department. 
William T. Whelehan. 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
John H. Cahill. '33, SIS S. Galena Ave.. Dixon. President; James E. Bales, '37, 915 
W. Second St, Dixon. Secretary. 

The duty has been delegated to me of making a report on the activities of the Rock River Valley Club. The club held a meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night at Freeport where they enjoyed a duck dinner and elected new officers for the coming year. John Cahill, of Dixon, was elected president. Charles Vaughn. '33, of Rockford. was elected vice-president, and James E. Bales. *37. '38, of Dixon, was elected secretary. 
Plans were discussed for increasing the activity of the club in order that a closer union might he established among the members. Arrangements for a dinner dance in the fall were discussed, and it is the desire of the members that the wives of the members of the club become acquainted and take part in the activities. 
The annual picnic w-ill be held Sunday, June 
16. Plans were also discussed for raising funds within the club, which might be used to assist a student desirous of attending Notre Dame but unable to do so because of lack of finances. 
I shall endeavor within the next year to furnish . you with as much information as possible. -We 
have a fine organization, and Notre Dame may 
well be proud of the accomplishments of its mem­
bers. I shall be very happy to devote my time 
in any manner that I might be of assistance to 
you and the "Alumnus." 
James E. Bales. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILL. 
Joseph P. Hennebcrry. '23, 1520 Burr Oak Road. Homewood. lU., President; Midiael it, Kinney, '31. Office of Sec of State, Springfield, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Springfield and Centrrl Illinois observed the Universal Notre Dame Night at Reisch's with a better than average attendance. After the radio program the annual election of officers was held and Joe Hennebery, '23, was elected president, Mike Seyfrit, of Carlinville. state's attorney in Macoupin County and candi­date for re-election, garnered himself another of­fice by being elected vice-president, and Mike Kinney was electe<I secretary and treasurer—with­out portfolio. 
New faces which made their appearance at the gathering were Ed Mandcville and Ed Flynn. both of Jacksonville, and Phil Walker and Floyd Miller oi Springfield. 
Rister Monday the club sponsored a dance with 
the able guidance of the new president, who was 
.lided and abetted by Joe McGrath, Walter Ber­
nard. Dr. Ed Bernard and the retiring president. 
William Bembrock. 
2^L 3L Kinney. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Louis V. Bruggner. '23. 129 W. Jefferson. South Bend. President; Clarence Harding. *2.t. South Bend Tribune, South Bend. Sec­retary. 
On the Ninth Anniversary of Knute Rockne's Death — the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley held its annual Rockne Mass and Memorial Breakfast. The Mass was celebrated in Dillon Hall Chapel on the altar dedicated to St. Olaf, and held as a memorial to Rockne. Rev. STatthew J. Walsh. C.S.C., president of the University during part of Rockne's career, was celebrant. After the Mass, a memorial breakfast was held in the Lay Faculty dining room on the campus. Frank Miles, president of the club, presided. 
Present were members of the Rockne family, members of the Monogram. Villagers and St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame clubs, together with men who played under Rockne, and many who never knew him personally. 
Thomas L. Hickcy. of South Bend, a close friend of Rockne's, and Ray Eichenlanb, of Columbus. Ohio, who played football with Rockne while both were students at Notre Dame, told several interesting anecdotes. Elmer Layden. athletic director, made an announcement concerning "The Life of Knute Rockne" moving picture, which is now in production in Hollywood. 
Following the breakfast, a motor cavalcade went to Highland Cemeteo*. where a wreath was placed on Rockne's grave. Co-chairmen of the affair were Charles Sweeney and Grover SCslone. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated with a dinner for members of the club and their ladies, in the Lay Faculty dining room. Tlie 150 who attended heard talks by Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C, Prof. William E. Farrell, Assistant Coach Joe Boland, and Managlne: Bditor WiUiam R, Dooley. Francis Jones acted as toastmaster, and music during the dinner was provided by Bill Dunham's orchestra and William Scully, vocalist. 
Board of directors, elected Notre Dame Night for the ensuing year were, as follows: Louis V. Bnifrtrncr, Gerald J. Hoar. Clarence Hardinf^, R. Floyd Scarcr, James R. Mcchan, Bernard F. Wi­tudci. Joseph V. Quinlan, James E, KcatintT. D. C Grant, Joseph W. Lauber, Charles Sweeney, Daniel A. Clark. 
A 15-minute Notre Dame Night radio program from the campus studio was broadcast from 6 to 6:15 over the South Bend "Tribune" Station WSBT. The program was under the direction of Bay Kelly, and artists appearing' on it were Orville Foster, pianist, and Mr. Scully- Frank Miles, and Harrj' Boisvcrt, president of the Senior Class, gave brief talks. 
At a, meeting held Tuesday, April 2^,. the direc­tors elected the foUowins officers for the ensuing year: Bernard J. Voll, honorary president; Rer. Thomas Brcnnan, C.S.C, chaplain: Gerald Hoar, vice-president: Clarence Harding, secretarj-; R. • Floyd Scarcr, treasurer: James R. Mechan, assist­
• and treasurer. Clarence Harding. 
ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Bcrtrand D. Coughlin. *2S. 7704 Country Club Court. President; Albert J. Ravarino, '35, 4651 Shaw St., Secretar>-. 
More than 300 men and women members and -guests gathered in the Chase Club of St. Louis 
for Universal Notre Dame Night in St. Louis 
this year for what, I understand, was the kind 
of occasion to which other clubs might aim. 
Universal Notre Dame Night in St. Louis this year didn't mean the gathering of Notre Dame about a radio in their homes or in a meeting hall. Universal Notre Dame Night in St. Louis this year was the kind of affair that brought back, in a new kind of w"ay, memories of the old school, that grave a new depth to the inspiration of those recollections, and that made Notre Dame hearts beat proudly for the kind of school that could celebrate Notre Dame Night in such glorious fashion-
The Chase Club, the main banquet and dance hall of the pretentious residential hotel, the Chase, on Kingshighway, in St. Louis, wag the scene of the affair this year, with the hall reserved exclusively for the night by and for the members of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis and their guests. Beginning that night with dinner, those who attended the affair heard, as piped to them, the Notre Dame Night key program from New York; they danced to the music of internationally-known Enrico Madriguora and his orchestra, heard Notre Dame's Pat Manion in one of the most oratorical outbursts anyone present had heard in years, listened to Misouri's Governor Lloyd Stark as he paid tribute to Notre Dame, and to others as they helped make the occasion one to be remembered. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis is not a larj3:e one. Despite the size of the city, the pro­portion of graduates and old students of the Uni\*ersity is small. Many smaller cities have a larger club than St. Louis. But the Notre Dame Club of St. X^uis docs things. 'With some of the most active Notre Dame men in the country in its ranks — men like Bob Hellrung, Joe McGlynn, AI Ravarino. Bill O'Connor and others, almost everj'one of the membership — under the leader­ership this year of a go-getter like Dr. Bert Conshlin — the club not only has informal Mon­day noon gatherings and frequent night-time gatherings, but a scholarship fund, a balance of several hundred dollars in the treasuo' and the courage to undertake affairs like that this year for Universal Notre Dame Night. 
As on outsider more or less, a resident of St. Lcuis now for little more than five years. I speak •of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis without the enthusiasm that comes from partisanship. In fact, when I heard Bert CDUf:hlin and Joe McGIj^nn sug­gest taking over the Chase Club for a night, knowing the liimted size of the club, I was in­clined to be hesitant, until I was swept along in the assuredness of the rest. 
Both Governor Stark and Pat Manion. in their talks, spoke of rcli^on and education. Tlie gov­ernor impressed upon us the consideration that one is assured of freedom of religion only in democracy. "As an Annapolis man," he said, "I know to my sorrow, of your school, as we went down to defeat before you in football. But foot­ball fame." he continued, **though great, is fleet­ing. Tlie traditions of scholarship, the training of young men for leadership, especially when it's ill a religious atmosphere, are the marks by which your University is known and by which your University has reached an outstanding position in the roster of American colleges." 
Pat Manion presented one of the most eloquent addresses it has been our fortune to hear in many years. Pat made us realize that religious educa­tion was necessary in helping keep the country free from destructful foreign "isms" and that this countrj-, as denoted in its Declaration of Indepen­dence, was the only one that affirmed its belief in a Supreme Being. 
"All men are created etjual,"quoted Pat, as he went on to say that this docs not say that all men are equal in age. the same in color, in wealth, in health, or in any other respect, but that they are "created" equal. The United States Declaration of Independence, he said, is the only one based on faith, on a religious affirmation. 
Jim McGoldrick, one of Notre Dame's assistant coaches, made the kind of talk that reminded many of us of our student days and that made a pretty young woman in the audience blush with lovely pride and joy. The Rev. William Ryan, S.J., the Notre Dame chaplain, and the alumni secretary of St. Louis University; and Mark Eaglcton, president of the St. Louis board of edu­cation, also made short talks. They, Father O'Hearn, dean of men at St. Louis University, and myself, were, to be complete, the honor guests. 
The evening, everything included, was a glorious success. Radio Station KWK broadcast a portion of Pat's speech. KXOK gave Notre Dame mention both Saturday and Monday in its, request pro­grams, and the newspapers, although they did not devote front page streamers to the affair, were more liberal than usual in their space, thanks largely to Paul Martin, now with the ''Star-Times" in advertising, here in St. Louis. 
Harry Planner;. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Harold B. Desnoyers. *34, 9 State St., 
Malone, N. Y., President; Dr. John T. 
Kane, ex. '33, 87 Front St.. Bingitamton, 
N. Y., Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Triple Cities Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night by holding a dinner meeting at the Arlington Hotel in Binghamton. 
The Rev. Joseph B. Toomey. '26, Binghamton Director of Catholic Charities, and District Attor­ney Daniel J. McAvoy, '24, were the principal speakers. Donald Kennedy, '23, acted as toast­master. 
.\t a business meeting held in conjunction with the celebration, Harold Desnoyer. '34, was chosen ­president of the club for the coming year; Larry Cronin, '30, of Elmira, was elected vice-president. Dr. John Kane, ex. '33, who spent one year at Notre Dame, became secretary, and Robert Mc­Cabe. '37, of Johnson City, was elected treasurer. 
Flans were drawn up for the annual Communion breakfast on Mother's Day. Members will recei\-e Communion in a body at St. John's Church in Binghamton, and the breakfast will be served at the Binghamton Club immediately following the 9 o'clock Mass. Rev. Joseph E. Wilmes. '00. pastor of St. John's, will celebrate the Mass. 

Technicolor motion pictures of the 1939 game bet\veen Notre Dame and Georgia Tech concluded the progrjim of the evening. 
Some of the members present were: Regis Mc­Namara, '32, Ted Griffin, '30, Bill Hogan, '32. Joe Kane, '26. Jack Wacks, '36, Wally Demcr, '37. of Honesdale, Frank O'Brien. '34, of Elmira, Ed Hogan, '3S, Frank Donlan, *3G, of Endicott, Bill Ycagcr, '34, Stewart Osborne, '34, Robert Murphy, 
•3S, John Donnelly, *34, and John Toomey, *39. 
Some of the other important happenings con­cerning the individual members of the club are as follows: Bill Hogan, '34, is the proud father of a baby girl, Mary Elizabeth, which was born at Lourdes Hospital. Mrs. William Hogan is the former Marion McKinney, a graduate of Mary-wood College and a former teacher in the Bing­hamton public school system. Bill is a teacher of mathematics at Binghamton Central High School. That makes a boy and girl for Bill now. Dan McAvoy, '24, has just returned from Florida where he spent three weeks vucationint;. Bob Mc-Cabc has been appointed to the Johnson City school system. Ed Hogan, '3S, is a member of the Welfare Investigating Committee of Binghamton. Jim O'Dca, '34, of Elmira, has just taken unto himself a bride. We won't be seeing much of Jim from now on. Wally Demcr, '37, is the dental surgeon at the Binghamton City Hospital. Bill Yeager, '34, has an interest in Cortland, N. Y. Frank Donlon is practicing law in Endicott. John 3Iurphy, *37, is getting along well as line coach at Union Endicott High School. 
Jim Hogan. 

TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hcngcsbach, ex. '27. P. O. Box 533. President; Ted A. Witz. ex. '29, Box 628, Secretary*. 

A small group here was disappointed on U.N.D. Night in not being able to pick up the program being broadcast from Detroit. It all being due to the atmosphere conditions around these parts. We did have a nice session, though, and all went home happy and contented. 
Soon Joseph C. Ryan, '24, will be going back home to Chicago, and we all will miss him. Joe's was one place that we could drop in at any time, and he always was cheerful about seeing us. Never did complain of the hours oven though we sometimes stayed too late, and kept him from his needed rest. 
By the time this is published we will have seen the picture, "Highlights of the 1939 Football Sea­son," which we are looking forward for with gre^t expcteations. I'm happy to learn that Tucson is one of the places on the route of said films. 
Haven't had any late reports on the boys. 
Ted Witz. 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Frank Mayer, '27, 1017 Portland Ave., St. Paul, President; George McDermott, Sec­retary. 

We had another grand reunion on the Twin City Notre Dame Club at the St. Paul Hotel, St. Paul, on U. N. D. Night. An enthusiastic group of 65 alumni and friends listened to the national pro­gram and we were deeply impressed by all of the speakers, particularly Bishop O'Hara. Jack Yelland, '30, on a local hook-up (15 minutes) gave some highlights on Notre Dame spirit and the University itself. 
Following the broadcast our own speakers' pro­gram got under way. Such stalwarts as Joe O'Hara, Danny Coagfalin, and Louis Chute gave short and timely talks. The main speaker of the evening -was Judge Mark Nolan. '24, district judge from Duluth. Many a humorous touch of campus life was covered by Judf^e Nolan. Ha concluded his speech by a plea to all N. D. men to carry on by eiving the true example in life of Notre Dame men. Gene O'Brien, *28, did a bans-up job as master of ceremonies. 
Following the talks election of officers took place. They are: Frank Mayer, president, St. Paul; Robert J. Haucr, vice-president, St. Paul; Gcorcc Williams, vice-president. Minneapolis; Gcorffe McDcrmott, secretarj'-treasurer, St. Paul. 
Gcrrj- McKay. 

UTAH 
Phil J. Purcoll. Jr.. *35, 947 E. Sooth Temple St., Salt Lake City, I'rcsident; John W. Gallivan, *37, 218 "E" Street, Salt Lake City, Secretary*. 

Fifteen fellows were present at the meeting and a good time was had by all, exchanginir remarks and stories about their former days at Notre Dame. Justice RoRer 1. McDonouBh, '15, a mem­ber of the Supreme Court of Utah, gave a very interesting talk on the life of the late Knutc Rocknc. 
"When the time came to elect officers for the ensuing year, Ray Brady withdrew his name from consideration by the club., and T think it proper at this time to remind you and the national asso­ciation that Ray has been president of our club for 15 years, without a break, and has served faithfully and well during that entire period of time. He has successfully and loyally entertained our football teams on numerous occasions, has entertained the Glee Club, and staged a perform­ance for them, has always welcomed in a proper manner the leading dignitaries of Notre Dame, including the president, oificers and coaches of the school, in a manner rhat wouM do credit to any organization in the Alucini As*5oci3tion. He has tried to resign time and time again, but we have held him in because of tl:e splendid work he has done end the prestige he has given to the club in this part of the country. 
Phil J. Purccll. Jr., '35. 947 E. South Temple Street, this city, was elected president; Jack Gallivan. '37. 213 "E " Street, this city, was elected secretarj*, and the Rev. Daniel Leahy, who was a student at Notre Dame in 1930 and 1931. was elected chaplain. 
Most Rev. Duanc G. Hunt, bishop of Salt Lake, was elected an honorary member of the club. The board of governors will be appointed by the presi­dent at a meeting soon to be held, and the new secretary will send you the names at that time. 
C J. Harbcke, who has been secretary for sev­eral years, left eight or nine months ago for California, and I was appointed to fill his place. Cy is with the D. & R. G. ticket office in Los Angeles. 
Gcorpe Falk. 

WASHINGTON, D. C. William B. Jones, '2S, Dcpt.of Justice. Room 2S32, Washington. President; Andrew Auth. '34, 405 Sixth St., S.W., Washington, Sec­retary-Some 200 alumni and friends of the University gathered at the Shoreham Hotel on April 15 for the annual celebration of Notre Dame Night. 
Rocknc W'as praised particularly for his grit and his loyalty to the school. Dr. Maurice Sheehy. religion department head at Catholic University, termed Rocknc one of the twin symbols of Notre Dame. The other, he said, is Bishop John F. O'Hara. The latter was singled out for particular recognition by Father Robert J. White, dean of the Catholic University Law School. He said "Bishop O'Hara typifies the wants of America — peace, spiritual health and happiness." 
Other principal speakers were Ambrose O'Con­ndl, assistant postmaster general: Brian Bell, Washington newspaper correspondent; District Attorney Edward M. Curran; Harrj- Stuhldrehor, 
«i:d Father William J. Doheny, Superior of Holy Cross College. Among the distinguished guests were Roprcscntatii'es Vincent P. Harrington of Iowa, and Robert A, Grant of Indiana, both Notre Dame alumni. Representing Notre Dame's foot­ball were Dutch Bergman, Forrest Cotton, and Wayne MiUncr, now a star end with the Wash­ington Redskins. 
This banquet and dinner was very capably taken care of by the following committees: general chairmen, Ambrose O'ConncIl and Arthur Berg­man; reception committee, Charles Farris and Tom McKcvitt; ticket chairman, Andrew C Auth; publicity. Frederick William Wile; radio, John Baczcnas. 
The regular monthly meeting was held at the Rpleigh Hotel on March 28. Father Sweeney in­troduced Rev. Ignatius Smith, Dean, School of Philosophy, Catholic University, and noted radio orator. Father Smith's spoke on the "Social Im­portance of Labor." Following this very inter­esting address, an open forum took place. Father Goodall, of the "Bengalese," spoke briefly on the missionary work in India. 
Our Rockne Communion Breakfast was held at Holy Cross College on Sunday, March 31. The members and officers of the club were delighted to meet Father O'Donncll, president of Notre Dame. Rev. Vincent Mooncy, C.S.C,, (National Catholic Youth) spoke on Rocknc. Father Mooney had with him the prayer book which he had given Rockne. This prayer book was passed around so that everyone could see it. Mrs. Rockne had given it to Father Mooney after Rockne's death. The Communion Breakfast w-as well attended. Bill Car was chairman and was assisted by P. Maloncy, J. Cassidy, J. Ryan and Leo Mulqucen. 
Andy Auth. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
George J. Schill, '27, ^lunicipal Garage & Repair Shop. Expo. BIdg., Duqucsne Way, Pittsburgh. President; Rev. Vincent P. Brcnnan, '32. St. Peter's Rectory, 814 Western St., Tarcntum, Pa., Sccrctarj-. 

The time has come for me to write the last letter as secretary of the Notre Dame Club. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was very much of a success here in Pittsburgh. Radio talks were given hy George Schill, Turk Mcincrt, John Ryan and Jack Shccdy over the local stations. A dinner was held at the Pittsburgh Athletic Association, which was attended by some GO members. There were members who listened to the broadcast from Detroit, and were unanimous on the opinion that it was the best that had ever been conducted. 
After the broadcast Ollic O'Toole, a local radio announcer, announced through a fake microphone in another room and gave a speech as Lord Beaverbrook, a former professor at Notre Dame. His speech was quite heated and vitriolic in spots but it couldn't compare with the heat expressed by some of the members. John McMahnn was all for tearing the radio out of the wall, and Turk Mcincrt was trying to borrow nickels to call the radio station and voice his objections. Several of the others were completely taken in by the hoax, and there were many red faces when Mr. O'Toole was finally introduced. 
The annual election was held, with the follow­ing results: George Schill was elected president to succeed John Ryan, Fd O'Brien was elected vice-president. Jack Montevcrdc was elected treasurer, and Father Vincent Brcnnan was elected secretary. The club is ioitunate in having four such hustlers as officers for the next year, and after the elec­tion a vote of confidence was given by the whole membership. 
After the dinner the boys sat around and talked and played cards. AI Dicbold gave a talk on the scholarship fund created by the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania, and announced that the response so far to the appeal for contributions was verj- encouraging. 
Vince Barkc. 

WEST VIRGINIA 
James A. Malloy. *30. 3824 Staunton Ave, Charleston. President; John Cackley, *37, 1521 Lee St^ Charleston. Secretary. 

Ihe local club held its fifth annual Universal Notre Dame Night banquet at the Hnffner Hotel in Charleston. New oflicers. who will preside during the coming year, were elected, and they are as follows: William ' J. Kenney, president; John Cackley, vice-president; and Dr. Michael J. O'Connor, secretary - treasurer. Former Judge Arthur P. Hudson was nnanimously re-elected honorary president. 
Impromptu talks were given by each member present. Plans were discussed for a smoker to be held some time next month. Those who attended included: James A. Malloy, the out-going presi­dent ; Walter Toassaint, retiring vice-president; WJ . Kenney, Judge A. P. Hudson. Vincent J. Reishman, Paul Smith, Paul Schanb, Joe Norton. Jim McQnain, Hugh Loder. Jr., Mike O'Connor. and Jack Cackley. 
John Cackley. 

WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Francis P. Denney, '32, c-o J. Walter Thompson Co., 821 Second Ave.. Seattle, President; A. Maurice Schafer, '37, 117 N. Main St., Montesano, Secretary-. 

Universal Notre Dame Night gave cause to the alumni of Western Washington to gather for their annual meeting. The affair was held at the Col­lege Club in Seattle and was called by President Frank Denny. Twenty members and two guests were present: Bob Bnrghart, Slorris Starrett, Dr. Claire Shannon. Dr. Carney. Thomas Meade, Fran­cis Flannery, Bob Pigott, Maurice Schafer, Frank 
J. McHugh, Frank Denney, E. G. Lcnihan, James Phclan, James Morrisscy, phi! Hosterman, Joe Horrigan, Bod Davisconrt, Jerry Hagan, Joe Sin­nott. Will H. Tiemcy. and Ed Biley. Guests for the evening were Bert Dunne of San Francisco and C. F. Aloorc of Seattle. 
The meeting was opened by President Frank Denney, Guests were introduced and the "Victory March" sung by all. Minutes of the two meetings held in 1939 were read and approved. A financial report was given. The president then introduced to the group the latest batch of newly married among the members, Thomas Meade. Joe Horrigan and Francis Flanncty. 
President Denney made a review of alumni work both on and off the campus, stressing the endow­ment activities and the assistance they were giving graduates in finding work for them. James Phelan reviewed a little football and 3Iorris Starrett was allotted five minutes for anything. 
Bert Dunne, alumnus of San Francisco, a free lance writer for "Collier's" under the pen name of Don Plenadon, addressed the group, rekindling a bit of old N. D. spirit in the gang. As E. G-Lcnihan was the last visitor to the campus, attend­ing the N. D.-Purdue game, he gave ns a picture of the many changes and improvements. 
The club was privileged in having C. F; 
(China) Moore, president of the China Club of 
Seattle. Most of his speech and stories were in 
Chinese, so I missed a lot of them. 
The nominating committee of past officers, Thomas Meade and Emmctt Lenihan. proposed the same officers for the coming year. No further nominations and a unanimous ballot was cast. Frank Denney, president, and Manrice Schafer, secretary. 
The meeting was closed with an hour of pictures covering the 1939 football season. 
Many fellows were missed but with those that were present, we had a grand time. At present, all the alumni in these parts are employed. Dick Meade has deserted the Northwest for the windy Golden Gate of San Francisco, being connected with J. Walter Thompson Co. Phil Hosterman is now holding forth with J. C. Penney in Seattle. 
Plans are being made for a summer gatherinsr. Morris Starrett has offered Port Townsend. Maurice Schafer. 
» » ^
THE ALUMNI 
EngageniBnfs 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Bemadctte J. Schumacher and Aldcn E. Lenhard, '27, of Mishawaka, Ind, 
Miss Virginia Mary Follansbee and Frederick 
J. Laughna, *33, of Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
Miss Mary Frances Apgar and John M. McCar­thy, ex. '33, of Morristown, N. J. 
Miss Betty Richards and George J. Bruno, '34, of St. Louis. 
Miss Edythe "Williams and E. Thomas McNally, '36, of Httsburg, Kansas. 
Miss Dorothy Lucas and John Norton, *36, of Rochester, N. Y. 
Miss Angela Patterson and Robert W. Richards, *38. of Niles, Mich. 
Miss Helen Mary Rippe and Robert J. Iloag. Jr., '39, of Chicago. 
Marriages 
Miss Teresa Mae Deitle and R. Otto Probst, *11, were married, April 20, in South Bend. 
Miss Loretto Ann Fink and Edward S. Sullivan, 
•24, were married, recently, in Fort "Wayne. The Most Rev. John Francis Noll, LL.D., *15. Bishop of Fort Wayne, who is the bride's uncle, officiated at the ceremony. Francis Fink, '30, and Henry Kasley, '28, were among the attendants. 
The marriage of Miss Dorothy Culkin and Clarence J. Ruddy, '27, took place, April 20, in Carthage. HI. 
Miss Marjorie Veronica and Joseph P. Hiss, '29, were married. May 4, in Oakland, Calif. 
Miss Charlotte Ruth Alben and William N. Sherman, '30, were married, April 20, in JefTer­sonvillo, Ind. 
Miss Kay CafTrey and Patrick F. Murray, '31, v.-ere married, December 2, in Brooklyn. 
Miss Rebecca Hutson and John Bognar, '32, 
•were married. April 11, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Evelyn McAdams and William T. Kirby, '32, took place, April 6. in Chicago. Among the attendants were Joseph B. Kirby. '31, Erskine C. Edwards, '32, and John P . Lj-nch, '33. 
Miss Irene Mich and Anthony Knbarich. '35, were married, April 20, in South Bend. 
Miss Muriel Elizabeth Brown and John D. Carbine, '35, were married, April 13, in Rutland, Vt 
Miss Vera Simper and Dale E, Lovell, '36. were married, March 21, in New Paris, Ind. 
Miss Evelyne Mary Curtin and James D. Swords, '36, were married, March 30, in the Log Chapel," Notre Dame. 
Miss Esther Labadie and Eugene Bogardus, ex. '37, were married, April 6, in South Bend. 

The marriage of Miss Lucille Palmgren and Norbcrt Tinncs, '37, took place April 20, at Notre Dame. 
Miss Leah Grcenfeld and Marvin A. Krucgcr, '37, were married, April 7, in Chicago. 
The marriage of Miss Patricia Josephine Crum­ley and Francis J. Meyers, '37, took place. May 4, in Cincinnati. 
Miss Frieda C. Pastrick and Edward F. Stack, '39, were married, April 20, in Chicago. 
• 

Birfhs 
CORRECTION: A son, Maurice Jude, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Maurice J. Dcwald, *33, on March 20, in Fort Wayne. The April "Alumnus" pre­sented the Dewalds with a daughter instead. 
ilr. and Mrs, Charles P. J. ]SIooncy, '21, an­nounce the birth of twin daughters, Louise Frazer and Charlotte Frazer, on March 29. in Memphis. 
Mr. and Mrs, Joseph W. Powers, *24, announce the birth of a son, Patrick Edward, on March 2S. in Omaha, Nebraska. 
A daughter. Mary Anne, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. James J. Gb-nn, '26, on Februar>- 13, in Lancaster, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald Hanrahan, *27, announce the birth of a daughter, on March 22. in Misba­w*aka, Ind. 
A daughter, Barbara Anne, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert \* Knox. '28, on February 26, in Springfield. III. 
A daughter, Mary Louise, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. \lncent F. Carney, '29, on March 18, in Rochelle, III. 
Dr. and 3Irs. Arthur W. Fleming, *29, announce the birth of t^vin daughters, Mary Elizabeth and Nancy Ann, on February 7, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul A- Dailcy, ex. *32, announce the birth of a son, John Charles, on March 7, in Jacksonville, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Kraus, '33, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Mary, on April 5, in Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John W. Krocger, *34, on April 21, in Philadelphia. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward M. Murphy, '34, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Genevieve Anne, on April 10. In St. Paul, Allnn. 
A son, John Hugh, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Hugh J. Murphy, *34, on March 29, in Pitts­burgh. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank N. Leonard, '33, announce the birth of a daughter, Joan Frances, Easter morning. March 24, in Chicago. 
A son, Stephen Lawrence, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Morris L. Moskowitz, *37, on March 27, in South Bend. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. "Victor 

G. Rciling. '38, In Dayton, Ohio. 
A daughter. Sally Anne, was born to Mr. and 

Mrs. Earl M. Brown, '39, on March 22, in Prov­idence, R. I. 
Deaths 
Rev. Bernard B. Mulloy, C.S.C., one of the most widely known of Holy Cross missionary priests, died April 2 in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend. Several weeks previously he retired from active work because of ill health. 
Father Mulloy was horn In Chicago on June 26, 1S87, and was ordained to the priesthood at Notre Dame in 1916. Most of the years until his death he spent in devoted missionary work in alt parts of the country, but especially in Chicago, Detroit and New Jersey. For several years he was as­sistant pastor of Sacred Heart Church in New Orleans. 
The funeral Alass was sung by Father Mulloy's nephew. Rev. James Leahy, C.S.C., '33. Bernard Leahy, '31, is another nephew. 
Raymond C Langan. Litt.B., *93, an attorney in Clinton, Iowa, died on Oct. 2. 1939, at the age of G6, according to brief word to the "Alumnus." 
A newspaper dispatch from Louisville made known the death of Andrew F. Fchr, a student at Notre Dame in 1898, brother of Frank Fehr, also of Louisville, member of the first football team at Notre Dame. Andrew Fehr was vice-president of the Frank Fehr Brewing Company, founded by his late father and now headed by his brother. 
Raymond V. Stephan, LL.B. '03, Galena, 111., brother of Anton C. Stephan, *04, New York City, died in Galena on Feb. 20 as the result of a lingering heart ailment which had kept him in bed for eight months before his death. News of Mr. Stephan's death was sent to the "Alumnus" by his son. Raymond, of Galena. 
John McDill Fox, A.B. '09, Washington, D. C, former dean of the Catholic University law school and more recently trial examiner in charge of hearings for the Food and Drug Administration of the Department of Agriculture, died on April IS after an appendectomy. 
Mr. Fox received his LL.B. from Harvard in 1914 and practiced law In Boston and Milwaukee for several years before becoming law Instructor at ^larquette University. He was dean at Catho­lic University from 1930 to 1935. Mr. Fox was a iro-founder of the National Academy of World Economics and an incorporator of the American Academy of Air Law. He was also active in the Academy of Political Science and the National Council of Naturalization and Citizenship. 
Mr. Fox is survived by his wife, three daugh­ters, a sister and two brothers. 
Through Father J. F. McElhone, C.S.C., and Vince Burke, former secretary of the Western Pennsylvania Club, the "Alumnus" has word of the death of Thomas A. Havican, Litt.B. "11, Homestead, Pa., who died of pneumonia on March 
17. Vince says, "He had been III for three days. 
and got up on March 16, on which day he col­lapsed and was taken to the Homestead Hospital, where he died Sunday. .. . He is buried in St. Marj- Maudalcne Cemetery in Munhall, Pa., and was accorded a full military funeral by the reci­ment to which he belonKed." 
A postoflice notification with the word **I>e­ceased" is the only Alumni Office information on the death of Fremont Amfield. LL.B. '12, Elgin. III. 
Ross E. Pettit, ex. '23, Fort Wayne. Ind.. died recently after a long Illness. Word of his death was sent to the "Alumnus" by Maurice DeWald. secretary of the Notre Dame Club in Fort Waj-ne, the members of which gathered to recite the rosary for lloss. 
Raymond D. Sanduskcy, LL.B. *30. brother of Arthur, '36, died in Elkhart, Ind., on March 19. Surviving him are his wife, his parents and two brothers. 
Richard C. Stucvc, B.S. Ch.E. '33, Tulsa. Okla., 
was the victim of an automobile crash in mid-
April. Said Dick's father, in a quotation on the 
"Religious Bulletin" after the fatal accident. 
"R. C. Jr., was driving from Texas to visit a few 
days when a large gasoline truck made a left turn 
in front of htm and the crash could not be 
avoided. He lived but a short time, but he re­
ceived Extreme Unction and no doubt had a 
Happy Death." 
Dick was buried in l^ilsa on the morning of 
Universal Notre Dame Night, April 15. Members 
of the Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma recited the 
rosary for him, had Masses said, sent a floral 
tribute and attended the funeral in a body. (See 
Oklahoma Club news, this Issue, for further 
details.) 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Joseph Sullivan, '01, upon the death of his wife; William Hclmkamp. '11. upon the death of his daughter; Dr. Neil J. Whalcn, '18. upon the death of his father: Floyd A, Gcnin. '29, upon the death of his brother: Donald Bulchoz. '27, upon the death of his wife: Wallace Fromhart, '35, upon the death of his brother; Jordan Hargrove, '35. upon the death of his father: Joseph Schmidt, '36, upon the death of his father: Richard, '37, and James McArdle, '39. upon the death of their father; Herman T. Griffin, '37, upon the death of his mother and his sister: Joseph Hughes. '37, upon the death of his mother: Arthur, '37, Richard, '39. and Walter Cronin, Ml. upon the death of their father. 
Personals 
P. E. Burke. 'SS, 301 

Before 1890 Gamp, New Orleans, La. 
1 0OA OO Itev, J. A. MacNamara, '97t lOTU-TT Saint Joseph*! SanlUrium, Blount Clemens. Michigan. 
50-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1890 May 31, June I and 2 

Advance note: Since many of the students will not leave the campus until May 30 (even though it is Memorial Day), it will be impossible for the University' sen-ice staff to have rooms ready for returning alumni before May 31 (Friday). 
lOAA i%A "RohU E. Proctor. '04, Honser ITUU-U4 BdUdimr, Elkhart. Indians. 
Bj'ron Kanaley will give the Commencement address at Spring Hill College, Spring Hill, Ala.. on May 28. Spring Hill is the oldest college In 
Alabama and the third oldest Jesuit College in 
America. 
The Alumni Office welcomed a recent note from Nicholas Furlong, of Kennebec, S. Dak., state's attorney of Lyman County. Mr. Furlong's address had been among the missing for several years in the Office. 
lOAC AO ^^^' Thomas E. Borke, C.S.C, 
I TU3"UT '07. Notre Dame, Indians. 
George Maypole, Chicago, was a candidate for lieutenant governor of Illinois in that state's recent overheated primaries, but lost out when the "regular" Democrat machine swept the field. 
A recent picture in the "South Bend Tribune" showed the popular Father Charles Doremus, C.S.C., engaged in one of his favorite occupations, 
— feeding the ducks on St. Joseph's Lake on the campus. Since the campus Is a bird sanctuary, it is a popular haven for ducks of many varieties some of which stay for winter lodging instead of going south. 
101A R«T- A^ ^ Moriarty, 1900 EncUd 
I 7 I U ATC , Cleveland. Ohio. 
With George Sands, 'ID, Democrat, opposing the incumbent. Bob Grant, '28, (both of South Bend) the third district of Indiana has again an all-Notre Dame contest for congressman. George Beamer, '29, was Bob's opponent two years ago. 
With Mr. Sands on the Democratic ticket In 
St. Joseph County are Art Schcer, '26, candidate 
for re-election as prosecutor, John Buczkowski, 
candidate for state senator, and Ed Olczak, *33, 
for state representative. 
101 1 ^' ^ Steers. 1666 First National Bank 
I'll Building. Oiicago, Illinots. 
1019 ^ ^* I^^'' * 324 Foarth St.. Fitta-
I T I ifa bnrgfa, Pennsylvania. 
Walter Duncan wrote recently from LaSalle. 
111. tu Registrar Bob Riordan to say that another Duncan, Vincent, now a student at Georgetown Prep, expected to be a freshman at Notre Dame next fall. 
1 Q "I O Paul R. Byrne, University Library, I 7 I O Notre Dame, Indiana. 
lO^A Frank H. Hayes. 642 Third Ave., I 7 1 1 CThula Vista, California. 
Charlie Vaughan, with his brother, VinU . *17, of Lafayette, Ind., recently were awarded a 552,000 verdict against the Wabash Railroad for their client, the victim of a serious railroad acci­dent, according to a clipping fonvarded to the Alumni Office by Dean Konop, of the Law School. The suit was for §100,000. 
101C James E. Ssnford. 3725 Clinton Ave.. 1 7 1 9 Berwn. Illinois. 
25-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1915 May 31, June I and 2. 

Ad\*ance note: Since many of the students will not leave the campus until May 30 (even though it is Memorial Day), it will be impossible for the University service staff to have rooms ready for returning alumni before May 31 (Friday). 
From Jim Sanford: 
"Responses to our letter are rolling in. Among those who will join us on the campus for our most important reunion are: 
"Joe Fliska — 6524 Emerald Ave., Chicago,' whose courage through years of illness has been an inspiration to every man who has kno\vn him since the days when he shared gridiron honors with Rockne and Dorais. 
"Jimmy Mathews — 5916 N. Berkeley Blvd., Milwaukee, Wis., sends word, 'I'll be there.* 
"Unless several cases in Federal Court are post­poned we will miss seeing the popular Sim Mee from Sterling, III. 
"Dr. John 3L CuUirsn — 1267 Lowry BIdg.. St. Paul, Minn., is not going to let operations or consultations interfere with our reunion, so he has joined the Til be theres.' Welcome, John! I shall never forget the cooperation you gave many years ago when I needed a friend to contact the Mayo Clinic — you responded like the sincere and friendly classmate you were on the campus. 
"It was hardly necessary to get any official message from Bob Roach, of Muscatine, Iowa. that he is coming, but it Is before me nevertheless, so this news should bring back many of the class whose votes honored this modest gentleman with the class presidency in our junior and senior years. 
1915 DINNER 

The Class will have its Silver Anniver' sary Dinner in the Faculty Dining Room of the University Dining Hall at G PJIf., Central Standard Time, on Friday, May 31, according to a late announcement by SccretaiT Sanford. Informality will reign, Jim promises, and the speeches, if any. will be brief. 
"Harold Plunger has checked the right spot. too. and w^ill bring that genial personality to the cam­pus to renew old acquaintances. 
"All signs point to an attendance of 30 to 50 members of the class, and you will find among them many of your old friends whose locks may have turned gray or possibly disappeared, but whose personality will have shown no change with the years — whose hearts will once more be as gay as they were a quarter of a century ago. 
"Ray Eichenlaub was offered some stiff compe­tition when Jack Balfe, '20, was nominated to run against him for president of the Alumni As­sociation, but knowing both men as we do, we 'will not suffer any anxiety at our dinner. We know, of course, that Ray will be there, win or lose, so this is an official invitation to Jack to join us. The secretary spent several months in New York recently and had an excellent opportunity to see the work he is doing for Notre Dame men. 
"Bill Mooney, who seldom misses a Commence­ment, sends the following: 
*' 'Sure, I'll be back for the reunion in June. I am making plans to "arrive early and stay late." It should, indeed, be a great three-day reunion for the "old timers" of the class of '15.' 
" 'I approve heartily of the committee you have selected to handle the plans for the reunion. If there is anything at all that I can do for you here in Indianapolis, feel free to call on me.' 
"Joe 'Frickey* Farrell, Camp Hill, Pa., is an­other faithful who is coming. He is with Gen­eral Electric Company. 
"Rev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C., will rest a while from his potent labors as the head of Holy Gross Mission Band to greet us. 
"Howard Rohan, 2990 Erie Ave., (Hnclnnati. Ohio, sends his regrets and informs us that illness will prevent him from coming. One son, Howard, Jr.. is a student now, and another son, Andrew, is re^stered for 1941. We will be thinking of yon. Howard, and hoping for your recovery. 
"Ray Eichenlanb writes: * ain't missed none and I don't intend t'miss none, so if the Lord lets me. Ahll be wid you.' 
"Twenty-five years and Eich's sense of humor going stronger than ever! A true AIl-American is this lad, so be there to greet him. 
"Other 'I'll be theres* include Galrin Hadson, ' 1515 Sterick Bldc-. Memphis. Tenn.. March Wells. 319% E. Chestnut. BIoominKton. III.. Norman Ranstcad. 2154 Thomwood Ave., "W^Imettc, 111. 
"Joe'Byme, 82S Broad St.. Newark, N. J., will he with us. So will Bill Carroll, of Woodstock. 111., and Larry LaJoic, 925 Dime Bank Bids., De­troit, I told you in my letter that Ray KcUy, national commander of the American Legion, had promised me to be on deck. Now 1 hear from the Alumni OfTicc that Ray is going to give one of the main talks on Saturday evening at the an­nual alumni banquet, which this year will be centered on the subject of world peace. There you have one evtra reason for attending the reunion. 
"Be sure to register in the Alumni Office, 
•whether you stay on the campus or in South Bend. You will have ample notification when you arrive of any Fpecial plans or events for the class. 
"Members of the class, and especially those on the committee made known in the April 'Alum­nus,' are urged to write to those friends whose names do not appear here. Bribe 'em, beg 'em, torture 'em, but get 'em back! 
"Yours for the biggest week-end in 25 years!" 
George Shustcr. academic dean and acting pres­ident of Hunter College, New York City, since Sept, 1 of last year, was recently elected president and will ofnciaHy lake office on Sept. 1 of this year. 
Timothy P. Galvin, First Trost Build­

1916 ing, Hammond, Indiana. 
1917 S?"'"''?-''--*''^?!'"-- 3309 Falrmonnt 
Blvd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 

John A. Lemmcr, 901 Lake Shore Drive, 1918 Escanaba, Alichigan. 
From John Lemmcr: 
"Tom Mott has been living in Spokane, Wash., for five years and is sales manager of the B. W. Ewing Paper Company there. Tom has t^vo youngsters, Tom, Jr., and a daughter, Kathie. He certainly is enthusiastic about the Northwest­
"About the only Notre Dame man he sees is Dan Roberts, who recently has been cruising on P^get Sound and some northerly points." 
Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street. 

1919 Gary, Indiana. 
1 co n ^ ° B- '^ord, I0I2 Black Bldc., Los 
• T£M Anseles, California. 
20-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1920 May 31, June I and 2 

Advance note: Since many of the students will not leave the campns until May 30 (even though it is Memorial Day), it will be impossible for the University scr\-ice staff to have rooms ready for returning alumni before May 31 (Friday). 
Registrar Riordan sends word that Joe O'Hara, attorney in Glencoe. Minn., is making application for the entrance of his son, Joe, Jr., who expects to be a freshman next fall. 
Dan W, Duffy, 1600 Terminal Tower, 

1921 Cleveland, Ohio. 
There were recently two welcome letters to the class secretary, breaking the long reign of '21 silence. The first from George Wittericd, the Dittman Company, 125 N. Union Ave., Chicago: 
"Dear Dan: 
"We're getting old enough to stir up a little something for the class of 1921. 
"Enclosed find a letter from Jock Mooney, which did my heart good. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

"I talked with Bill Allen today relative to Uni­versal Notre Dame iV7ight and understand Red Maher, Cliff Noonan, Rig Sacklcy, Art Wcinridi and myself will sit at a table for ten. 
"Bill Allen is out in the country living in a house built by Cliff Noonan. Bill has three bo^'s. The census taker will make expenses when he hits the Noonan house as he had about five, on the last count. Old man Sackic}* has about the same num­ber hut he has had more time. He got out in 1917. I have only two — one is a freshman at Loyola here. 
"I see Norm Barrj- every once in a while. He is in politics and doing nicely. You will read about his hoy next year on the Varsity at Notre Dame. Here's the real news: Larr^- Morgan is married! Never see Bill Fitzgerald, but Pete Bahan comes through town now and then. 
"Saw Fat Stafford and Frank Coughlin during the Legion convention here. In going through the 'Alumnus* I noticed where Mickey Eanc was checking the editors on basketball. It recalled the days when the gang thought you and Mickey, the original Katzenjammer kids. 
"Well, Dan. old boy, here's hoping to hear from you and some of the- other fellows of our time." 
Jock Mooncy's letter to George Wittericd fore­cast the exciting event which is confirmed in Jock's later letter to Dan Duffy. From 1800 Ex­change Building, Memphis, Attorney Mooney wrote: 
"Dear Dan: 
"Your letter was a delightful surprise. 
**Sincc I wTote George Wittericd, I have two new arrivals. Louis Prazer Mooney and Charlotte Frazer Mooney came on March 29 to join" Charles Patrick Joseph IH. We were expecting Sean Michael and Patrick Sarsfield, but this is the sea.'^n of surprises. 
"Do you ever see Joseph Thompson, who lived at Nashville before leaving school? I understand he is with some bank in your city. Give him my regards. 
"I would like to hear something from granite-faced Ted Carraody. 
"Glad you ha%'e not forgotten me." 
lO^O Gerald Ashe. 29 Lake Are.. Hilton, I TZ ^ New York. 
From Kid Ashe: 
"John Hucthcr, in charge of Sales for Hea\T Industries of the General Electric Company, Sche­nectady, N. Y., visited the Notre Dame campus on April 10, to interview members of this year's graduating class who yearn to become members of the great * G. E. family. Needless to say, the requirements are rigid. It is no small honor for John himself to have attained his present position with General Electric 
"Wo hereby express our thanks to MidiacI Seyfrit, of 1923, for his thoughtfulness and kind­ness in advising us that the Steve Carmodys. of Carlinville, HI., were enriched in January of this year with a baby daughter. The Carmodys have four children. • 
"A short time ago we made mention of Pierre 'Pete* Champion, of Cleveland, in this department. Now Pete himself comes through with additional information which is, indeed most welcome. Pete, lovingly known as 'Dutch,' and Mrs. Champion, have four children — David (age 15), Mary Patricia (14), Pierre, J r (3), and "William (2). The Champions reside at 2899 C^urtland Blvd.. Shaker Heights, Cleveland. Brother Aquinas (Ed Gottry) li'isifcd the Champions recently. 
"The boys around Philadelphia are all agreed that this year's broadcast from Detroit on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night topped all previous programs by a wide margin. It is felt that only 
Fhildelphians could do a better job. and they are anxious to originate the 1941 program. What a 'natural* this would be for Bill Castcllini — Pub­lic Relations director extraordinary of the Frank­lin Institute, Philadelphia. The secretary of the local Notre Dame Club will, undoubtedly, give a detailed report of the splendid testimonial to John Nccson, founder of Universal Notre Dame Night, the idea being conceived and successfully developed by E. Bradley Bailey, '23, and our own Bill Castellini. and very ably supported by out­going club ofTicers. 
"John Hart is district manager of the CCC I'rucking Co., a division of the U. S. Truck Lines. His headquarters and home are in Cin­cinnati. 
"According to our latest available information, Chct Wj-nne is doing legal work for the HOLC in the Chicago area. 
"The 1922 delegation of South Bend residents is a large one, also a quiet one. Some of the boys who became so attached to the place that they decided to remain there, are: Gene Smogor. Harold Weber. Eddie Herbert, Aaron Hugucnard. Leo Lovctt. Paul Schwertlej-, Walter Matthcs. Paul Padcn, Walter Shilts, Richard Giucckert, Bemic McCaffrey, and Ed Schmitt." 
Orson Welles has nothing on Bill Castellini. Or have you read your newspapers and "'Kme" lately? Bill's plan for advertising his exhibit in Franklin Institute. Philadelphia, called "How the World Will End." aroused an unlocked for re­sponse when a telegram to Jack Benny was read over KY\V, Philadelphia. 
Pat Manion gave the keynote address and a second address before the national convention of the National Catholic Educational Association in late March. Father William F. Cunningham. Father Philip S. Moore and Thomas J. Barry, with Pat, represented the University at the convention, in KJinsas City. 
|Q9 ^ Paul H. Castner, 37 South Ave., New 17 * J Canaan, (^nnec^cut. 
lOOA ^' ^' Hayes, Wm. J. Pedrick and I Wjk^ Co., International Bldg., Rockefeller Center, New York City. 
lOOC Jo^n P- Harley. 2085 Brookdale Road, 
I TZ9 Toledo, Ohio. 
15-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1925 May 3!, June I and 2 

Advance note: Since many of the students will not leave the campus until May 30 (even though it is Memorial Day), it will be impossible for the University service staff to have rooms ready for returning alumni before May 31 (Friday). 
From John Hurley; "To add to the 35 acceptances, there are 30 more, and it looks like our attendance will double any previous 15th reunion. 
"I had a chat with Gil Schacfer at the grand national get-together in Detroit on Universal Notre Dame Night. Gil promised to furnish transportation to any '25er who got as far as Detroit, and would pick anyone up between De­troit and South Bend even if it took a dozen cars to do it. He has the Hudson agency in Detroit-Gil really is serious about this, so call him if you need wheels. Also saw Clarence Kaiser, and he solved one of a half dozen mysteries of those fellows who forgot to sign the cards after filling them out. He has a girl and one boy, and is with Rf^chold (Hiemicals, Inc., Detroit. 
"Paul Hoeffler and Ray Tillman, of Toledo, made the trip over to Detroit in a chartered Streamline bus for Universal Notre Dame Ni^ht alons with 20 other eii^Is and boys. Both Paul and Ray as well as Carl SchafTcr^ Frank Murray, Paul Doolcy, Ray Cunningham, Ben Kcsting. alons with your secretary, are coming back May 31. June 1 and 2, so Toledo will be represented with a 100 percent attendance of '25er3. 
All apologies to Robert K. Gordon, who was listed as 'Robert Goodow* in the April issue. He writes, 'Goodow might be a lawyer for all I know, (my kids don't know him either). Seriously though, John, I am looking fon^-ard to our re­union with considerable anticipation, and if I can do anything to help, communicate ^vith Robert K. Gordon (not Goodow).* Sorry, Bob. and thanks, but the way 'we* (Mrs. J. P. and myself) dash out these notes for the 'Alumnus* deadline, it*s a wonder there aren't more mistakes. Bob has two children, and lives at 913 Nelson Street, Fort AVnyne, Ind. 
"Paul J. Dufaud. 1911 East Second St., Tucson, Ariz., is married, has a girl nine 5*ears old and a boy four, and his present job 'on the sidelines.* Paul wrote a letter full of news which just missed making the April issue. Paul writes: 
" 'Kindly pass on to Jim Armstrong any en­closed information of any value to him.' 
** 'Alumni letter received today and very happy to read it. It seems a shame that so many of the boys are lost, stray or stolen. Slaybe I can help a mite in a few cases with rather slim clues.' 
" 'Failed to read in the "Alumnus" about the death of the son of Louis O'Hanlcy, '26, of Chi­cago. He had three youngsters of which^ a boy and a girl were twins. I tliink two years old. Shortly before Christmas the boy died after a few days' sickness.' 
•* 'Some years ago Duke Clancy was in Detroit, living with Eddie Polhaus, now with Ford Motors in Detroit, and George Koch, who, the last I heard, was hack in South Bend. Clancy left Detroit during the depression, but either Polhaus or Koch may have a line on him.' 
" 'I didn't think Gene Haubcr would ever get lost. However, Vince DcCoursey has that Kansas City gang under his thumb and should know about Hauber or his whereabouts.* 
" 'Less than two years ago Milt Leach was in Minneapolis, and I think he was working in a bank. He was a very good friend of Tom Hodg­son, '24, and Tom is working at the Federal Reserve Bank in Minneapolis. Some few weeks ago I Was trying to get in touch with Wolf Moore and traced him to Seattle, I believe, but no firm or street address. He was a good friend of Johnny Morgan, now of Linton. Tnd., and they kept up correspondence for sometime.' 
" 'Can't imagine Slick CNcil having strayed. At least, we know that he can take care of him­self. Hope he shows up.' 
" 'Heard about Bob Pamcll since coming to this country but can*t place the information now. Believe he is working for some mining company and has spent some time in Mexico. Rcube Mom­scn knows all the N.D. boys in these parts, so might be of some help on this.' 
" 'You'll probably find Sagstcttcr in South America.' 
" 'Now we come to John Snakard. formerly of Fort Worth, but last heard of in Chicago, Well. John, I believe your friend, Paul Hoclflcr. can help with this one. By the way, remind Paul that T have been looking forward to a letter from him for some time. He was to get some informa­tion for me, and probably didn't send it on be­cause he thought it somewhat discouraging. Have him send it on anyway as I would like to study it. Tell him that in November I received a medi­cal report from the A.MJV- in Chicago which was very discouraging, i.e., that I was lucky to 
have recovered as far as I had and should not look for\vard too hopefully for continued improve­ment, etc However, I feel that I am continuing to improve though it is very slow. Yet it has not stopped. How much longer it will take I cannot hazard even a guess. I have had tivo nen'ous up­sets this winter, one quite severe but the duration was not so long. Lately I have been feeling pretty good and feel that I have been gaining more strength. I am now up about 10 hours a day. Tell Paul the sun is still shining around here.* 
" 'Gene Sullivan was a very good friend of Art Bergeron. Joe Bach, of football fame, rounded out the trio from the same mining town in north­ern Minnesota. As long as yoa know where Art is you can probably find out from him about Gene. Both ivere swell fellows.* 
" *Ed Welch was a close friend of Maurice "Gob" Boland, and Gob has kept up a pretty good correspondence with quite a few of the old boys. You probably know that the Gob is work­ing with Hcrm Ccntlivrc in Fort Wayne at the latter's brewery.* 
*' 'There are very few graduates around here although there are close to 40 who spent one or two years at N.D. Joe Ryan leaves here for Chicago, probably next month. He hopes to be back at N.D. and teaching again next fall. Boy, is he fat!* 
" 'When I was in bed I couldn't go to Alass, but have been to Mass five or six times in the past year and a half. However, the priest brings me Holy Communion every Friday morning, and the receiving of Christ is truly a boon to morale, and I firmly believe it helps physically. I hope to see my little girl receive her first Holy Com­munion on the Sunday after Easter.' 
" 'I started this letter yesterday and it needs sending. Thanks a lot for everything, and may I hear from you in the not too distant future.* 
"Thanks a million. Paul, and Pm sure every classmate who comes back 'will say. one for you* at the Grotto for your speedy recovery. 
•"Here's word from one of our class who is back on his feet again, Joe Mcnger, 107 Katherine Court, San Antonio, Texas. 
" 'Thanks for your note. Information about myself is scarce. I'm still a bachelor, footloose and scatfree and I'm associate editor of the "Southern Messenger," official Catholic newspaper of Texas, now in its golden jubilee year. Illness, however, caused me to retire to the sidelines a few years ago. Tom Ahcam, Ph.B. Journ., '24, was married Easter Saturday in Berkeley. Calif.* 
" 'Fred Link. *26, Norwalfc, Ohio, spent three weeks here with family this winter, and by the~ way, John, my deepest sympathy to you in the loss of your dad: I just read the news in an old "Alumnus." ' 
" 'P.S. Sorry I can't be with you and the fellows at reunion but it is impossible for me to travel. Here's wishing the fellows all the luck in the world.' 
"To be at reunion: 
"Leo J. Powers, practicing lawyer, 10 S. La-Salle St , Chicago. 
"Dick Zeller (wife), theatrical manager, 675 
N. ISIich Ave., Chicago. 
"J. W. McGowan. 1204 House Bldg., Pitts­burgh, Pa. (three boys), professor of sociology. Duquesne U.. and executive secretary of the Catholic Welfare Bureau. 
"Firmin Fwsz, 320 Bristol Road, Webster Groves, Mo. 
"Paul A. Hartman. 348 Orchard Drive. Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburgh, Pa., vice-president. Imperial Oil and Gas Products Company (2 sons, 1 girl). 
Sends following addresses: Bob PameD, Box 551B, Parker. Arix., Gene Snllivan. Crosby, Minn.. Ab Daschbacfa, 24 Union St, Westfield, N. Y. 
"Ed Ahlering, 17 Midway Court. Hammond. Ind. (1 boy, 1 girl), chemical enj^neer. Northern In­diana Public Service Company. 
"Wilbur Boston. »LD. (4 children). 542 Main St, Flattsmouth, Nebr. 
"John P. Lyndi, CS.C. 'Am the father (spiritual, I might add) of 1.000 boys, all attending N.D, Assistant prefect of religion, N. D. Be glad to offer. Mass for living and deceased members of the class.' 
"Don Miller (3 girls). 'Next Jub* I expect to have a backfield for S t Mary's of the Woods. At­torney, Cleveland.* 
"George A. Biscfaoff (1 daughter and wife). 'Since '25, agent. Travelers Insurance Company, Indianapolis. You can locate Duke Clancy with Consolidated Finance Company, Indianapolis.' 
"Edward G. Byrne. 122 Hastings St, Pitts­burgh. (3 children). Vice-president. Byrnes and Kiefer Company, Pittsburgh. 
"Daniel R. Conncll (2 sons). Senior mnp drafts­man. Cook County, Bumham Building, Chicago. 
"Clarence W. Harding (wife). 1509 E. Hildreth, South Bend, South Bend 'Tribune.* Display adver­tising and newspaper promotion. 'Tell me if there is any way I can help on the reunion.* 
"Frank Howland (wife). General agent, Massa­chusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., Memphis. 'Harry Stuhldrcher visited Memphis last month, and gave a s^vell talk before the Big Ten and the N.D. clubs.' 
"Jack Scallan (one son). Pullman Standard Car Mfg. Co., Chicago. 'Looking forward to a grand reunion.* 
"Bon G. KestinsT {2 sons). 173 E. Broadway, Toledo, Ohio, Lucas County engineer. 'Hope '25ers have record attendance.* 
"John R. Droege (2 children). 2IS E. Fofcagon St., South Bend. 
"W. D. Hall (3 children). '. . , but quartering ne.\t month.' 210 W. 40th. Minneapolis. Credit manager. 
"E. J. Baker (2 children). Secretary and assist­ant treasurer., Peter Echrich & Son, Inc., Kala­mazoo, Mich. 
"Paul Sagstetter. c-o General Tire Service. Inc. 1701 Clinton, St, Fort Wayne. Ind. 'Change my address from 116 Woodward to 1924 Wnchell. Kalamazoo. Mich. 
"Bernic Finnigan (1 daughter). Private practice as lawyer. President. (2nd term) South Chicago Bar Association, vice- president, Calumet Civic League. 
"Ray C. Conninfiham (I son). MofTett Studio. New York. Detroit, Miami Mcach. 'Naturally I am planning to be back for class reunion.* Bay will have his movie camera along. 
"William A. Krider. Attorney. 202 Engineers Bldg.. 10S03 S t Clair Ave-, Cleveland. 'As the matter stands now. I shall return to the gradua­tion and am looking forward to seeing a lot of old faces. Due to the fact that I have been ill for some time was unable to keep in as close touch with the school and fellows, but now am feeling fine and am looking forward to have a fine time. My regards to all the boys.' 
"Fred Uhl. 414 S. York. Dearborn. Mich. 'Not certain, but believe I*ll make reunion. Try Dnt Griffin, c-o Acme Fast JVeight, 188 Lexington Ave.. New York City.* 
"Harry McGoire. Theatrical producer. 'Can't be sure of making reunion, but £;oing to try Uke hell. Given up my apartment at 20 Park Ave­nue, Kew York City. (This is for the benefit of some of the boys who used to sang up on me there). My apartment address is now the Yale Club, 44th and Vanderbilt Avenue, New York.* 
"Can't be at reunion: "H. J- Harstick, 1929 Magnolia Ave.. Long Beach. Calif, (wife. 1 daughter). Foster & Kleiser Outdoor Advertising Sales manager. 
"Norhert SkcUy. 'Forgot to sign his card, but the drug store in Salina. Kansas, gave me the clue. Sorry you can't make it, Norb!* 
"Dr. Ralph Gladen (wife, 1 daughter). Psychia­trist. Patton. Calif. 
"John A. Yung. Married. Lawyer. 925 First National Bank BIdg.. Montgomery, Ala. 
"Edgar Rip Miller (2 sons). United SLites Naval Academy. 'Doing business same old stand on the Severn.* 
"Brother Ernest, CS.C. Teaching at Portland University. Portland, Ore. 'My latest book, "Boys of the Covered Wagon," has been put on the Oregon state list for school libraries.' 
"George Sdiwarz (wife). 'No hits, no runs, no errors. Accountant, Production Credit Corp. "Will see you at the Centennial.' 920 East 7th St. Russell. Kansas. 
"Sieve W. Rcbcil (wife). General Electric denier, 700 N. Sixth Avenue. Tucson, Ariz. 
"John V. Biandii (2 children). Regular pharma­
cist employed by the United-AMielan Drug Com­
pany, 1736 Bloomfield Ave.. Newark. N. J. 
"Lester Wolfe (wife. 2 children). R-CJV. engi­
neer. 2G0 S. Lacato Ave., Audabon. Camden. N. J. 
"By the way. your class secretary is boasting of two daughters, and plans 'to be at the reunion.* 

"As the record stands to date the following arc coming, so you fellows who 'are on the fence* better join us. 
Clarence Buncc Frank Steel, Harold Watson, George Ludwig, Willard Jones, Joe Toolon, Maur­ice Boland. Tom Goss, John Kilkenny, Dick Zcllcr, Clarence Kaiser, Rev. J. P. Lynch, Dan Connell, Ben Kcsting, Panl Sagstcttcr, Harry McGuire. Dr. Wilbur Eaton, Henry Wurzcr, Dr. Dave Murphy, Ed^vard Ryan, Lawrence Casey, John Whitman, 
J. B. Walters, J. V. Fagan, William Hurley, John Bartlcy, J. W. McGowan. Carl Schaffer, Don ]llillcr, Clarence Harding, John Droege, Bcmie Finnigan, Firmin Fnsz. 
Robert Gordon. Charlie Mouch, Dr. Fabian Burke. William BcIL R. W. Worth, P. IVL Firchio, James Wrape, Hon. V. Harrington, Ed Polhaus, Paul Hoeffler, Frank Murray, George BischoIT, Frank Howland, W. D. Hall, William Kridcr, Paul Hartman, Walter Hacdter, Stephen Corboy, Gil­bert Uhl, Henry McAdams, Paul Romwebcr, Ray DcCourscy, Jack Kane, Paul Doolcy, Leo Powers, Ray Tillman. Ray Cunningham. Ed Byrnes, Jack Scalian. E. J. Baker. Fred Uhl. Ed Ahlering. 
Charlie Lacey, Boy Guidance student in 1924­25 who died on March 22. 1926, is represented in a recent "Catholic Book News" of Benziger Brothers with an appreciation of his booklet. "Rosary Novena to Our Lady." The appreciation is accompinied by .-n rppea'ing and inspiring account of Chrrlie's life. — iMifore Notre Dame, at Notre Dame, and after Notre Dame, when he taught at Kemper Military Academy, Boonville, Mo. 
V 09iL J^i° " A. Ronan. 127 Dearborn St., I T& O Chicago, nilnois. 
Art Bidwill, Chicago, made an excellent race but came out only second best in his recent at­tempt to win the Republican nomination for sec­retary of state in Illinois. Ed Casey, '24, was the leader among the Republicans in Chicago in the contest for the 12 municipal court judgeship nominations. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
«A^ 7  Joseph  M. Bohnd,  Athletic  Office.  
I 7  A #  Notre Dame,  Indiana.  
From Joe  Boland:  

"As this is written with the crack of the whip over our aching shoulders, 'neath the driving eyes of S. Legree Dooley, who constantly demands notes, notes and still more notes — here's 'Notes* to Mr. Dooley! 
"Frank Maj'cr, still with Northern States Power Co. in St. Paul, as a power engineer-sales­man, had himself a bout with illness during the past winter, but his last letter says he has things pretty well under conrol now and is expecting better sailing from now on. He's about as rotund as your humble scrivener, unless those several months of illness shave<l dou-n his silhouette! 
"Joe ICccdy, who used to be with Uni\*ers"al Credit, writes from JoUet, HI., on the stationery of the Bilderback Investment Trust, with a flock of dope on classmates in extremely interesting form. At the risk of a lawsuit from Reedy, and assuring him that I'll share joint responsibility for statements to follow; here it is: ", . . Won­der if j-ou heard Chet McDonald was married Jan. 25? Joe Grinin [ed. note: now in Hartford. Conn., with his company] was best man. They are both with the same company. Standard Cas­ualty. Chet married a girl he has been going with for six years, so I guess she knows all about him except that he was a track man. Pm wor­ried about the results when she sees his under­shirts with the N.D. lettering. I don't believe either he or his best man have a piece of legiti­mate underwear between them. If cither of them get to be style leaders, Notre Dame is in for a lot of publicity in men's underwear fashions.* 
" 'Ding McCabc is practicing law* in Rockford. That stomach he hid so long in Sorin sub has bested him — he wouldn't have a chance catching that short pass up the middle now. He looks great, though, and hasn't changed a bit from the chest up.* 
" 'Tom Dunn is practicing law quite success­fully in Morris, 111. He is the Abraham Lincoln of Morris — people are naming children after him.they tell me. He built a nice home last fall and bought a new car, paying cash for both and even refusing an old pal a time deal on his car.* 
" 'Bill Halloran, who has been with Sears, Roebuck in Chicago for some while, had a recent serious illness — I believe he is still quite ill, though I have little direct dope. He ha's quite a family, incidentally, — four or five children, I believe.' [Ed. note: Bill had two operations from which he is well on the way to recovery. If all has gone as his last letter indicated, he's about back at work by now: which, we believe all of you will think, is really swell. Bill's home ad­dress is 703 Bonnie Brae, River Forest, 111.] 
"And^ so endcth the Reedy lesson, gratefully re­ceived, thankfully reprinted, and, with Pepper, Potter, Oyster, Stew and Mulligntawney, retained as counsel in the event of lawsuit from aggrieved parties. See our la\vyers! 
"Joe Bcnda, in Joliet, III., for Universal Notre Dame Night, met up vrith Ed 'Uny' Klayer, ex. '27, now Doctor Mayer, PIl have you know, with a good word for many of his old classmates. Clarence Ruddy, who has been carrying the name of '27 high in alumni circles and as high in everything else he does, was reported married April 20, and ye scrivener relays the congratula­tions of all from the class. 
"Paul Butler has been tearing the legal world apart around the Bend, establishing himself each day as a growing light in the Blackstone clique locally. And, of course. Mayor Bob Carey, of Toledo, is another conspicuous Spotlight Alumnus, with his steady climb to popularity and responsi­bility in his home town. We wish him luck in the political battles, and feel Toledo luck>' to have him • in the job. 
"Jack Ohnemus, with Studcbaker's Camera Division, wc sec buzzing around town here, busily engaged each day. And believe it or not, we have pictorial evidence wc would like to submit to those of '27 who know and would like to catch up with the elusive Freddie Collins, ex-fuUhack w*ho belongs in other columns, that he actually appeared, was recognized and had his picture taken on the Notre Dame crampus just two short weeks ago. He's engaged in radio script writing in Chicago, specializing in comedy material. 
•'.\nd that's about the total of our gatherings this spring. We've been too bus>- holding our head over the atrocious spring weather and the still more atrocious outlook for fall in football as a result, to grab off more 'Notes to You. Dooley, or did you want to listen to that old line again? Yousee , it seems that we lost 10 out of 11 monogram men from our starting team, (glub) ; three-(glub, glub) centers; and a couple of (glub, glubbity-glub) quarterbacks, so we can't possibly win more than two . . . (glub, glub. glub — glub, glub!)** 
Eari H. Kuhny, MJV. '27. South Bend, is a candidate for state representative on the Republi­can ticket. One of his running mates is Paul Bergan. ex. *3G, alt-o of South Bend. 
1 QOQ Lonis F. Buckley, 908 E. Cedar St, I T& O South Bend, Indiana. 
From Lou Bucldcy: 
"I hope all of 3'ou noticed the 'Late '28' column on page 207 of the April issue of the 'Alumnus* containing a letter from Joe Griffin which arrived too late to be included in the regular column. Thanks. Joe, for the interesting material. We have corrected our records with your new ad­dress. 
*'I received some news, via one of my students, that Peter Morgan is track coach at Trenton High School, Trenton, N. J. Pete recently announcwl a new addition to his family — a baby girl. 
"You, no doubt, read in the death notices in last issue of the death of Joe Hcbcrt in Beau­mont, Texas. We have not secured details of Joe's death. If one of the Texas classmates can supply us with this information, it will be very much appreciated. 
"We are introducing the plan this month of having more than one guest writer. Thanks to Bemie Garbcr, Dick Elpers, Carroll Pinklcy and Henrj' Ilaslcy, I am able to give you some inter­esting material from New York, CHiicago, Portage-ville, Mo„ and Fort Waj-ne. They managed to dig up some news concerning fellows about whom we have not had a word in a long time. Thanks for the good work, Bemie. Dick, Carroll and Henry. 
"I ask<>d Carroll and Dick to pick guest writers for next month. Carroll suggested Harold Ruppel, and Dick proposed Carl Pettersch. They are ex­cellent suggestions, so we will be expecting copy from Harold and Carl to make the deadline on June 4. You will remember that George Courj­did such a fine job reporting on the fellows who were back last June, that I stated at the time that he should consider himself as our reporter for June graduation reunions in the future. We hope to see a number of *28 men back in June.; Bo sure and report to George Cour^-, who in turn will pass on the news in this column in the June issue." 
From Dick Elpers, Columbia Broadcasting Com­pany, (Chicago: 
"It was probably spring house-cleaning time in Evansville when the April 'Alumnus' was delii-­ered. And that conscientious Daughter of Isa­bella, Mother Elpers, probably put it away so it wouldn't be lost — in one of those handy places where urgent telegrams, insurance pre­mium notices and jury summonses are discovered years later. Anyhow, last night on the 17th 
learned from your letter that April 20 is the deadline for a contribution I hadn't even known I was making. 
"Digging further into the leisurely* forwarded mail, I found the delayed 'Alumnus' and discov­ered that I owe everything to that Benedict Arnold of Hartford. Conn., Joe Griffin, who after writing everything I've told him about the Notre Dame men we both kne%v, sealed my doom by naming rae for the next column. It's like introducing a candidate just after you've snitched his speech and finished delivering it. 
"In presenting his gold brick. I can't under­stand how big-hearted Joe left me to mention Joe Timlin, who is the Chicago representative for a group of radio stations; Al Davis, who is in charge of the Diesel laboratory of General Motors in Detroit: and Jack Mullen, who is prospering deservedly with Benton & Bowles advertising agency in New York City. They are all papas ill a ratio of — I believe — one, two, and three. 
"I suppose the only scoop I've kept from Griffin is that here in the Columbia Studios I occasionally see Prof. John Frederick, who lectures at North­western and at N.D., and who would be a Notre Dame man by extension in any case because of his long friendship with Charles Phillips. As you may know. Prof Frederick has a weekly network program on CBS, 'Of Slen and Books,* ever>­Tuesday 4:15 to 4:30 p.m. New York time (con­sult your newspaper for local time and station — advertisement). 
"There, Louie — just drops from the empty bottle passed on by J. Griffin. I'm rushing these remnants to you promptly so that you can throw them out for anemia or piece them out with news from other fields, because this Chicago soil is wearing pretty thin. Maybe your readers could get a little crop rotation with a report from an­other city — for instance, with the next column from my old roommate. Carl Pettcrsch. 
From Carroll Pinklcy: 
"Not many of the class of *23 reside in the fair state of Missouri, so my contribution to the col­umn will be brief. Dr. Bernard P. Crowley Is taking care of the dental needs of the Notre Dame men in St. Louis. Bernle is active in the St. Louis N.D. Club and at present is ser\'ing on its board of directors. Bill Leahy has been trans­ferred to bigger and better things in Chicago — he is connected with the Pet Milk Company. Bill is married to a charming young lady; their young son. Michael, I'm sure, will be a candidate for one of the future fighting Irish squads. John A. Seitcr is on the bachelor list. John tells me that he is in his fifth year teaching Science at the Warrensburg (Mo.) high school. Charles A. Homer is sales representative in southern Missouri for Missouri Portland Cement Company. AVhile pass­ing through this territory Charley called me re­cently. "When asked if he had taken the trip down the middle aisle. Charley said. 'No, Pink, the way I travel around I would have to put an ad in the paper to get a wife.' 
"It looks as though we have a number of '28 bachelors in Missouri — Sciter. Igoc. Hofer and Pinkley are listed in this report. 
"John David Igoc, of the Lorain, Ohio, Igoes. is fast becoming a power in the big business league of Missouri. John resided in St. Louis until a couple of months ago when he was trans­ferred to Kansas City, where he is division sales manager of the National Tube Company. Mis­souri's political boss was dethroned some time ago and now I'm wondering if John's transfer to Kansas City may not have some special political significance — I know of no one more talented along political lines! John still is a 'hold out' in the matrimonial market. I wrote Igoe asking for news of our fellow classmen living in Kansas City. He came through in great style, and here is his contribution: 
"'Dear Pink: It will be a problem to give you news on many of our class, but I'll endeavor to help you out with some dope on those I have encountered in my travels.* 
" 'Last week I made a junket through Kansas, and through no fault of my own came to a town labeled "Salina." Salina. since my college days, has been synonymous with Carlin. so I stopped off and looked up the one-and-only John_ What a surprise to discover that this outstanding protege of Brother CVprian has forsaken cost sheets, ledger paper, etc, for the more rigorous w-ork of raisins cattle. Yes sir, John Carlin is a Kansas cowboy. He tried to prevail upon me to stay on with him a few days and join him in driving his herd to summer pasture, but the more I pondered on the condition certain portions of me would be in after seven or eight hours on a horse, the more anxious I became to bid my pal farewell. John is happily married, and has one son, who is a reg­ular carbon copy of himself. 'Wc stayed up until 3 in the morning reminiscing, and when you stop to consider that Kansas is a dry state that is quite a batch of reminiscing. When I left we agreed to get a hold of, G-Man Traughber some day and hold a minor league reunion in Salina.' 
" *Hcnr>- Classman, as you know, is one of Kansas City's outstanding young men. He is married to a very charming young lady, and is the proud father of five little Massmans. He spends most of his time damming the rivers of the United States, or building bridges over them. When not busy on the inland water ways, he shoots a mean game of Snooker, a game in which I learned to my surprise it is not always wise to score points.* 
** *I met Coach George Kcogan when he was here for the basketball coaches meeting. He is still the same peppery little fellow, and apparently still knows the game, for he pickf^l Indiana to wallop Kansas in the national finals, and his selection was exactly correct.' 
" 'Bumped into Francis D. Rcilly — Fall River's inimitable contribution to our class — in Union Station at St. Louis. Frank is operating in the Oklahoma oil fields, and resides at Tulsa. Our time together was short, but I did learn that he has just recovered from a very serious accident that had kept him on his back for a year or more. My train left at 6:00 and his at 6:20, and we became so engrossed in our discussion of the class of *23 that he wanted to split the difference: with both of us leaving at 6:10, — if there were any train at that time.' 
" 'Had a letter from Bob Knox announcing the arrival of a baby daughter. Bob worlcs in the state architect's o^ice at Springfield, III., although I may well have used the past tense, since learn­ing of the election returns in that state.' 
" *I .have not bumped into any of the other '2Ser3, in Kansas CSty, which means either one of two things — they get in early or I get up too late. However, there is a rather active little club here and I am hopeful that at their next meeting I may run into some of them.' " 
From Bcrnie Garhcr. 419 W^ 119th St. New York City: 
"From West Virginia, comes word of Richard Parrish, political expert on the Fairmont papers. He gives most of his spare time to writing — 
. that is, when he isn't driving out to his beautiful farm.in the mountains where he has just planted several thousand pine trees, as well as fruit orchards, and plans to cover, next spring, another hillside with about 5,000 evergreens. The brick farmhouse, fronted by two tremendous pines, was built by Dick's grandfather before he went off to the Civil War. It will be an ideal home wlien plans are completed and when Richard and Agnes cart out their interesting library. 
"^Vhen John MdVTahon visited New York not so 
long ago, he spoke before the Sales Executives Club at the Hotel Roosevelt. 
"Stale to some but news to others is the fact that Mr. and Mrs. Linns Haloney are now in New York City. Linus is teaching at St. John's Uni­versity in Brooklyn. 
"John J. Antos has a book just off the press. It is 'Law Office Secretary's Manual.* and only $5. (Prentice-Hall.) John is also ^ving his coarse. 'Training for Legal Secretarial Work.* at Colum­bia University's law school. 
"Bishop 0'Hara*s closest rival for the mileage record is Larry CuIIiney, who thinks nothing of 800 miles to be back in New York just for a short week-end. Larry, with the FDIC. has been known to commute daily when he is only a short distance from the bank being examined, say 100 mites or so. No, no date has been announced. 
"Dave Gibson wrote some weelcs ago from 967 
E. Garvey Ave., San Gabriel, Calif. Dave baa been out on the coast for four years and says he likes it better than any other part of the country. Of course. Dave comes from Indiana, but then he has lived in many sections of the United States, including New York City. The bad news in his letter was that of the death of his father in January. 193D. Most of last summer Dave and his family were in Seattle, the Yosemite. and other parts of the Northwest. 
"Equally unexpected as the letter from Gibson was one from another '23 journalist. George Scheucr. writing from 3047 Seyburn, Detroit. I'll quote him direct: 'You probably remember Earl Dardcs, who was in our class and later went to Africa. Spain, Tahiti and places like that. Well, I stopped off at Oltusville. Pa., to see him one time years ago . . . met his cousin, Evebii Sey­boldt. of Erie . , . she's Mrs. George S. now.* And Nicholas George was bom Nov. 19, 1939. 
"Mora quotes from (George: 'Earl is back in Titusville now and traveling about northwestern Pennsylvania, getting pictures for various news­papers and trade journals .. . I'm still with the Associated Press . . . have been doing a lot of flying, about 30 hours solo . . . and some sailing. Jerry Holland. Detroit "News*' marine editor, and I have a little 16-foot sloop . . . the Migra.* 
"George wants the addresses of Bob Capesius and Frank Doan .. . for the *Ex-News-Times* (circulation over 60) and other former staffers . . . sounds like a publication that would interest any N.D. journalist. 
"Ed Brcnnan. who went to the Bend from Brooklyn, and then battled his way to the Bronx, is now residing in Boston, having been made as­sistant manager of the Stone Mills Fabric CTo. 
"Another Brooklynite. AI Taylor, member of the New York bar and connected with the Depart­ment of Justice, is reported to have been seen around the docks in San Francisco, guarding California from. . . . What, Bill Jones? 
"The William Cronins have a third heir, which is to say two boys and a ^rl . ^Vhen this writer saw the oldest in action he was making Jim Conmey eat sand under threat of throwing him into the surf. 
"Another '23 who has three children is Jack Mullen. Jack, who hasn't changed a bit in ap­pcarance, has a swank office high above Madison Ave. The sun and air are as good as in his old room in Morrissey, but the view does not match that of St. Mary's lake. But he's not compaining." 
From Attorney Henry Hasley, 404 Peoples Tmst Building, Fort Wayne. Ind.: 
"During the past month I have come in contact with a few names which doubtless will be of in­terest to some of our members. On March 31. I took part in the exemplification of the Fourth Degree of the Knights of Columbus at Logans­port. Ind, The staff, under the direction of the Worthy Master, O- D. Dorsoy. of LaPortc, in­cluded, among others. Timothy P^ Galvin, Ph.B., *16, of Hammond, supreme director of the Knights of Columbus: C. Byron Hayes, LL.B., '13, of Fort "Wayne, and myself. H m was the principal speaker at the formal banquet which followed the degree. He gave a most appropriate and inspiring address on our beloved Rocknc, that day being the anni­versary of Rock's death. Among alumni who re­ceived the Fourth Degree on that occasion were John J. Wallace, A.B.. '27,- LLB., *28, and Harold 
J. Tuberty, LL.B., '30, of Logansport. Among the large number of Fourth Degree members who witnessed this degree I recall Eli Abraham, of Notre Dame, and the secretarj* of my law class, Joseph P. McNamara. LL.B., '29, of Indianapolis. There wore, I am sure, other alumni present whose r.amos I do not now recall. 
*'0n Monday evening, April 1. I spoke at a dinner meeting on the Knights of Columbus in Connersville, Ind. On that occasion I had the honor of being presented by Albert P. Hccb, LL.B., *25. and George J. Ilcincman, A.B.. '30. also addressed the assembly. 
"Sunday evening, April 7, I spoke at im initia­tion banquet of the Knights of Columbus in Evans\'iIIe, Ind., following the exemplificalion of the TTiird Degree to a class of 112 candidates. The Third Degree team was from Cairo, 111. You mny well imagine my pleasure and surprise when Julias M, 'Buddy' Schuh was introduced as a member of the Degree team. Buddy was one of my classmates in the old Freshman Hall back in 1924-25. I can think of no better appellation for all those distinguished alumni who had the privi­lege of living 'four deep' in a room in Freshman that year than 'Pal of my Stable Days.' 
"This week-end I am attending a closed retreat at Sacred Heart Academy near Fort Wa>-ne- This academy is now conducted by the Crosier Fathers as a preparatory seminary. Rev. Henry Scholtcns^ who received a degree at Notre Dame, I believe in the summer of 1939, is a member of the faculty at the academy. A goodly number of alumni are rgistered for the retreat, including Alfred J. Hicgcl, B.S.E.E., '34. Utaurice J. DeWald. B.C.S., 
•33, Henry J. 'Harry' Humbrccht, B.S. Arch. E., '34. and John H. Logan, Jr., A.B., '34, LL.B., '36. 
"The Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club is grieved over the loss of Ross Pcttit, ex. '2S. whose death occurred on Monday, April 15. Funeral ser\'ices were held yesterday rooming in St. Jude Catholic Clmrch in Fort Wayne. Ross contracted tubercu­losis several years ago, and his suffering during the last few weeks of his life was intense. Through it all he made no complaints, but ac­cepted his affliction in that spirit which we like to think is characteristic of Notre Dame. 
"I almost forgot to mention that I spent a w-eek-end last month with my old pal and former roommate, Oskar D. Rust, who hailed from Little Hock, Ark., during his days at Notre Dame. Oskar is now living in Cincinnati, Ohio, and is busily engaged in selling 'Black Diamond* by the car­load to dealers in Western Ohio for the Randall Fuel Company at Cincinnati. Oskar lives only a couple of blocks from a Catholic school, which is very convenient for his three children who have already reached that age. The score in Oskar's household is Notre Dame 2, St. Mary's 1." 
The red ink of the Registrar makes known to the Alumni Office the fact that Bill Kelly is a teacher in Seward Park High School, New York City, and resides at 180 W. 81st St.. N. Y. C. 
^Vith the unanimous endorsement of the Repub­lican party in St. Joe Countj- and in practically the entire district. Bob Grant, South Bend, is the Republican candidate for re-election as congress­man from the third district of Indiana. 
109 0 Jo**Pl> P- HcNmmmra. Attamcr Gen-
I T^T erm] Office, Indianrnpolii, Indiana. 
From Joe McNamara: 
"And now to continue the round up. In Ohio: 
"John P. Waltz presently holds the position of auditor of the Canton Stamping and Enameling Company, which position he has held since 1932. John has received his B.C.S. degree in accounting and is a. past member of the board of directors of the Canton Junior Chamber of Commerce as well as past lecturer of Canton Council No. 341 of the Knights of Columbus. He is married, has one child, and resides at 123 Clarendon Ave., S.W., Canton, and can be reached by phone by calling 3-2375. 
'*The position of claims referee with the Indus­trial Commission of Ohio is being very ably held down by Joseph J. Canty. Joe is married and is presently living at 870 Sheridan Ave., Columbus. William F. Cronin is with the Kellogg Sales Com­pany in Cleveland, holds the very fine position of district sales manager. Bill holds a B.S. in C.E. He is married — no children — and his telephone number is listed at Ta. 1923. 
B. J. 0'Lcar>- has been with the Ohio Bell Telephone Co. successively "since graduation as traffic student, toll traffic chief, traffic engineer and presently holds the very nice position of as­sistant district traffic superintendent. He is married, with two very fine children. His resi­dence address is 31G Frazer St.. Findlay — tele­phone 1120. Sylvester J. Dougherty is a steel works metallurgist with the Weirton Steel Com­pany of Weirton, W. Va. Doc has worked as a metallurgist in all of the plants of the above company, sheet, tin, strip and structural mills. He has received his B.S. degree in mining engi­neering, major in ferrous metallurgy. He is chairman of the Troop Committee of the Boy Scouts of St. Peter's Church. Yes, Doc is niarried and has one child, and is living at 1614 Penn­sylvania Ave., Steubenville. His home 'phone number is 940-J. 
"After graduating in 1929 B. J. Hugger went with the American Airlines, in which company he now holds the position of station manager. He is married — has no children — and is living at Beechmont and Wilaray, and his telephone is Be. 7508R. Paul D. Holahan is an auditor and as yet has not married. His business address is 750 Huron Road, Cleveland, and residence ad­dress at 1401 Roycroft Ave. Lakewood, Ohio. His 'phone number at his office is Ma. 9900 and home La. 0823. You know, Paul, this is leap year! The position of sales manager for the Chillicothe Sand and Gravel Company, as well as for the Southern. Ohio Quarries Company, is being very capably held down by Georse F. Dris­coll. George graduated from Notre Dame in *25, however he came back in '29 and secured his C.E. degree. He is married and has no children. He is living at 342 W. Water St.. Chillicothe, Ohio, and his telephone number is 325. 
"John F. Colangclo is presently holding the position of Construction Engineer with Lombardo Brothers Construction Company in Cleveland, with offices at 1770 E. 11th St. Up to the pres­ent John is unmarried, but don't be surprised if you h&ir wedding bells. Joseph H. Kraker is holding the position of treasurer and co-manager of Kraker's Old Heidelberg, Inc., in Akron, Ohio. He is a member of the Republican executive com­mittee. Summit County. Joe is married, and has a family of three very fine children. His home address is 274 Kenilworth Drive, and telephone is listed as Un. 1367. The sales department of the Rohner Paper Company in Akron, Ohio, is well represented by Paul A. Bertsdu After obtain­ing his B.S. degree at Notre Dame, Paul received an MJV. degree at Harvard. He is president of the Cavalier Club in Akron — this club is a group of young men formed to help needy chil­dren. He is married and has two nice children. He is presently residing at 83G Amherst St., Akron — telephone number BI. 3848. 
"Clarence Carl Brumleve is a sales engineer with the General Electric Company of Dayton. In 1936 Clarence was vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, and in 1937 chairman of the board of governors. He is married with a family of two children. His home address is 401 Wiltshire Blvd. — telephone listed as Wa. 6218. 
"Lorenzo L. Brenncl can be found in the Sur­vey Section of the War Department. U. S. Engi­neer's Office' in Huntington, W. Va. Lorenzo is married — has no children — and his home ad­dress is 128 Hamline Ave.. Zanesville, Ohio. Virgil Peter Clinc has a very good law practice of his own in Columbus, Ohio. Pete received his 
B.C.S.
 degree from Notre Dame in June, 1929, and later an LL.B. from Harvard L.^w School in June, 1936. He is presently living at 1541 Franklin Park South. Columbus, with telephone listed as Fairfax S310. Oh yes he is unmarried. Oskar D. Rust is the Ohio representative for the RandoU Fuel company in Cincinnati. Oskar is married, and has a family of three children. His residence address is 2820 Shaffer avenue. Cin­cinnati, and can be reached by calling Montana 3756 W. The American Steel and Wire Company is fortunate in having in their-employ Frank 

H.
 Belting, who holds the very nice position of In­dustrial Engineer in charge of job and salary evaluation — Cleveland district. Frank is married and has a family of three children. His residence address is presently 13GG Andrews Ave.. Lake­wood. Ohio — telephone Ac. 2GS3, and his office address is 1006 Rockefeller Building, Cleveland. 


"CIctus F. Schneider is holding the position of salesman with a ship repair company in Cleveland, Ohio. Clete is married, has two chil­dren and can be reached by 'phone by calling .\vGn 45-381. The Cincinnati office of the Insurance Company of North America is ably represented by Thomas F. McMahon. Tom is manager of the marine department of this company, is doing very well. His office is located in Carew Tower, Cin­cinnati, and his home is located at 4018 Lacrosse Ave., Cincinnati. Tom is married and has a family of three children. Thomas Jordcn, Jr. is secretary-treasurer of the Jordan-Marietta Company Paint stores in Slartins Ferry, Ohio. Eugene A. Milliff is presently a toll testboardman with the Ohio Bell Telephone company, whose offices are located at 750 Huron Road, Cleveland. Ohio. Gene is married — no children. His residence is 21324 Morewood Parkway, Rocky River, Ohio — tele­phone number Bo. 8150. 
"Since graduating Rocco D. Pcrone has been with the A. T. &. T. Company continuously. He holds the verj* good position of engineer in the equipment department of A. T. & T. Long Lines department. Roc is married — no children.­He is residing at 1745 Chapman Road, East Cleveland. Ohio. Carl P. Wolfram is presently holding the position of cashier with the Retail State Liquor Store in Cleveland. Carl is married and has a fine family of throe children. His resi­dence address is 271S7 Oriole Ave., Cleveland. The office of vice-president — charge of sales and operations — of the Ohio Deliverj'. Inc. is being very capably filled by Chris B. Wilhclmy, Chris is also vice-president of the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio. He is married and has two sons — two and four years. He is living at 178 N. Remington Road, Bcxley. Ohio — 'phone Fairfax 6923. 
"Robert William Hughes is a broker's repre­sentative for the AV. L. Lyons Company in Cin­cinnati. Bob is also a former president of the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati. He is now the first vice-president of the 'Friendly Sons of St, Patrick.' Bob is single and is living at 3565 Burch Ave., Cincinnati. 
Bill PInchel, district manager of TWA in Chi­f^ago, sends %vard that two N.D. men are recent additions to his stafT: John Thomas, *3S. and Jim Moylan, MO, who finished in February. Bill is doing an outstanding job in getting the air busi­ness for his company. He gets to South Bend now and then but seldom parks the sky buggy on the campus to have a chat. 
109A RolMrt Hellmnff, Humboldt BoUdlnff, wOV S L Louis, Hissoori. 
IO-VEAR REUNION 
Class of 1930 May 31, June I and 2 

Advance note: Since many of the students will not leave the campus until May 30 (even though it is Memorial Daj-)* >t will be impossible for the University ser^-icc staff to have rooms read}* for returning alumni before May .31 (Friday). 
TENTATIVE PROGRAM 10-YEAR REUNION 
May 31, June 1. June 2 

May 31. 1940: Registration—Alumni Office, Main Building. Room Assignment—Hall not yet determined, but 
the class will be assigned to rooms in one hall. 

Golf Tournament—^JMembers may start play any time during the day, on the IS-hole William 
J. Burke-University Golf course. 

Informal Smoker—Hall Headquarters. 
June 1, 1940: Registration for late-comers. Golf for late comers and hold-overs, grudge 
matches, etc. 

11:00 A.M. Baseball (softball) 1930 vs. 1935 to a Decision, on the Badin-Walsh playing fleld. 
2:00 P.M. Baseball, Notre Dame Varsity vs. Michigan State. 
6:00 P.M. The Alumni Banquet, East Hall. Dining Halls, at which the Class will be seated in a group. 
9:00 P.M. Smoker. 10-Year Class Host, Open to Other Alumni. Refreshments, informal program, indoor sports, (cards, pool, bil­liards, ping-pong, etc.) 
June 2. 1940: 
CJbmmunion may be received by members at the early Masses in the Church, or In Hall Chapels which will be made known. 
10:00 A.M. Special Mass for the Class of 1930, in the Hall Chapel, with Special Memorial for Deceased Members. 
11:00 A.M. Demonstration of the techniques of Prof. J. A. Rcynicrs in the Biology Building for the Class of 1930. (Prof. Reyniers, a mem­ber of the Class, has won national recognition for the development of germ-free animals, known as "living ^est-tubes.") 
12:00 Noon. Monogram members of the Class attend the annual luncheon for Monogram Men in the West Hall of the University Dining Halls. 
4:00 P. M. Commencement Exercises, Awarding of Degrees, and Commencement Address, in the University Gymnasium. 
N.B. The facilities of the Rockne Memorial, swimming pool, handball and squash courts. etc, will be available at specified hours during the week-end. 
"Well, boys, it still seems like Easter time down here in St. Louis, because the little blue Easter cards are still coming in. Thanks for them all. Your correspondent appreciates receiv­ing them, and is over-enthused by the goodly number who will attend the big reunion party. 
The class of 1930 has always been a record-breaking class, and it seems destined to break another record. May 31, with the number of Thirties returning to the campus. 
*'Ed Arthur, the kid from Ticonderoga, is now living at 148 Centre Ave., Secaucus, N. J., and is dot-dashing for Western Union at 2500 Broadway, New York City. Ed writes suggesting a Mass for those of our class who died before or since graduation. He announces that Warren Fogel and Tim Toomey are rounding up the Metropoli­tan boys for a special train that will be Reunion bound on either May 29 or May 30. Says Edward: 'I can hardly wait to dunk myself once more in the Rockne Jlemorial Pool.* 
"Tim Toomey writes from New York on the stationcrj- of the Royal Indemnity Company. 57 Gold Street, to give us more details on the pro­posed special train, 'Warren is now working in conjunction with the passenger agent of the N.Y.C., and within a short time members of our class, residing in this vicinity, should receive literature from the railroad regarding the trip.' Tim inquired as to whether or not all the Eastern­ers could have rooms together in the same hall. The answer is: Yes. all members of the class of '30 will be housed in one ball, probably Morris­sey, and the Easterners can have a whole floor to themselves —• if they can fill it. 
"Art Gallagher, of Cleveland, is architectural designing at 16112 Euclid Avenue, in Cleveland, and said he thinks the Cleveland gang will all be there. 
"(All of the alyive mentioned gentlemen are still single, and eligibly unattached.) 
"John Harrington married Gert Michels, w-ho was working in the athletic office at the Univer­sity during our time. John is selling hams and beef tenderloins for Swift & Company at Peru, Ind., and is to be congratulated on two sons. He writes that he is looking forward to attending the Reunion, and suggests that if we can get John Voss, H. Magner, and Harry Bnscher there, the party is bound to be a success. 
'*John Manning, who is living in Highland Park, Mich., and working for the Standard Gravel Com­pany of Detroit, tells us that he has been married since November 30. 192S, and boasts of one boy, seven and a half years old, and promises to be there for the Reunion. 
"Frank Amato has been transferred very recent­ly by the International Hani-ester Company, for whom he sells trucks, to southern Illinois. He works out of the district office at 4010 West Pine Blvd., St. Louis. Frank has been married since May, 1933, and has three children, Richard. Joseph. Jeanne, and Frank. Jr. He suggests we take our wives along so there'll be someone to drive us home safely from the Reunion. 
"Tom iMcDougal, the district attorney of An­tigo. Wis., was married May 13, 1935, and has one son, three and a half years old. Congratula­tions, Tom. on the district attorney business of Langlade County. Tom will also join us for the Reunion. 
*'Jim Burke sends Easter greetings from Okla­homa City, where he was married in September, 1937. He has one daughter, 20 months old, and s.-tys he will be there if he can possibly make it. 
"Francis Hand sends word from Epping, N. H.. that he was married in 1935 and has three chil­dren. Francis now signs his name with an M.D. after it, and wants to be remembered to Jack Sigler, of Eureka. Iowa. He may be at the Re­union .. . he said. 
"Pat McLaughlin, now of 7569 Buckingham Drive, St. Louis, married Virginia Campbell, on June 23, 1939, and is a. security salesman. Re­garding children, he tells us. 'Not yet.* 
"Larry O'Connor, the LL.B. of North Walpole. 
N. H., is now managing a Sears Roebuck store at Elmhurst, IlL Larry has been married since June, 1939. and he, too. reports, 'No results yet.* 
*'BiU Steitz, the contractor from Pittsbursb, is with the W. N. Sauer Company, who specialize in plumbing, heating and ventilating. Bill has been married since 1932, and has two boys and one 'on the way.' He writes, 1 hope to be out for the Reunion, but that "one on the way" stuff may keep me in Pittsburgh.' 
"Charlie Daffy is a mechanical engineer for the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, and can be reached at 4 Irving Place. New York City. Charlie reports proudly that he is the father of a daughter, Maureen, seven years old, and Bob, four years old. He will probably be on that special train from New York. 
"John Yelland. who is in the insurance business at 831 N.W. Bank Building, Minneapolis, Minn., says he has been married since June, 1935, but has no children. John has no definite news about his being at the Reunion, but wishes it a lot of success. 
"John Folks, credit manager of the Nassau Suf­folk Lumber & Supplj- Corporation, at AmityviUe. Long Island, has been married since November, 1935, and has two children. He will be at the Reunion with all of us. . 
"Ed Redmond states that he is not in the busi­nes of raising chickens, but is now with the Hercules Powder Company, at 5228 N. Hopkins St., Milwaukee, Wis. Ed was married in July, 1932, and has two boys and two girls. He sends best regards and says that he will definitely be there. 
"Dan Cannon, of Columbus, Ohio, is with Ful­lerton & Company, in the investment business, at 8 E. Broad St. He was married May, 1937, and says, regarding children, 'None as yet — hold your hat.' Dan w-ill be at the Reunion. 
"Walter Parent is now practicing law at Mich­igan City, Ind. He is married and has two children, and you can bet that he won't miss the Big Party. 
"Jerry Reidy. of Reidy Brothers Company, is selling furniture and undertaking at 11730 De­troit Ave., Cleveland. Jerry is still bacheloring, and says regarding children, 'Heavens, No!' Jerry is a perennial 'Reunioner* and you can depend upon his being there. 
"Bill Fink, the editor of 'Our Sunday Visitor.' is coming up from Huntington, Ind., and will pass out his latest edition at our Class Mass Sunday morning. Bill was married in February, 1931. and has three boys. 
"John Bitter finally sends word from San An­tonio, Texas, where he is with the Southern Lumi>er Company of 314 Nolan St., dealing in building materials, paints and hardware. He was married in June of 1936. and has two boys. John will try to attend the Reunion. He reports that Tom Donovan is now practicing medicine in Houston, Texas, but wants to know what has be­come of John Cummlngs and Bill Monaluu» of Worcester, Mass. 
*'Had Manske* formerly of Ne%v London, Wis., is now in the advertising printing business at Stevens Point. He has been married since Sep­tember, 1935, tuid makes the following comment about children, 'One on deck.* 'Had* can be counted on for the Reunion. 
"Jade Nowery, of 6417 Rutger St., Houston. Texas, says, 'Am sure planning on being present for the Tenth Reunion. Best Regards.' Jack is married, and has a boy and girl combination. 
"John HcGce sent Easter greetings from Buf­falo. N. Y., where he is connected with the U. S. Government at 63 E. Delavan Ave. John was married April, 1938, and has one child, John, Jr.. one year old. John will 'make* the Reunion. 
"Larry Fitzsimmons writes from LaPorte. Ind,, that he is w-ith the Fitzsimmons Coal and Lumber Company at 620 Boston St., and has been married since June, 1933. His children are, Laurence, Jr., and luiryl Lu. Needless to say, Larry will be there at the Reunion. He sugECsts beer, beer and more beer . . . (must be thirsty). . 
"Tom Kerrigan is practicing law in Chicago at 7909 S. Racine Ave. He is brokering a little real estate on the side, and has been married since February, 1935, with no 'results.' Tom writes that be has just heard from Leo McAloon, who will also attend the Reunion; and he reports that Joe Butler, the kid from Lakewood, Ohio, has recently bee."* given an appointment with the SEC and, after completing a short training period in New York, will be permanently located in Chi­cago. We feel sure that Joe will be at the Reunion with us. 
"Congressman Bob Grant, South Bend, of the Third District of Indiana, writes from the House of Representatives in AVashington, D. C, 'I hope that this session will adjourn in time for me to be on hand. You' may be sure that I will be there if the New Dealers don't keep us here all summer.' 
"Ted Ryan is with the Santa Fe Garage Cor­poration, in the capacity of Eecrctar>'-treasurer. The slogan on his letterhead reads, 'The Largest and Finest Exclusive Storage in the Entire South­west.' He and his father are dealers in Skelly Gasoline and Firestone Tires, in Hutchinson, Kan. Ted has been married since June, 1931. and has four boys . , . the result of a romance begun at the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game at Chicago in 1929. Ted wTites a long and extremely interesting letter, that I would like to quote in its entirety, but space will not permit. Suffice to say, he will be with us at the Reunion, and we're glad, too. 
•*John Roncy, with the Jones & Laughlin Steel Company, is at Second Avenue, Pittsburgh, and has been married since September, 1937 .. . as yet, no children. He is one of the very few who reports that be will be unable to attend the Re­union, but hopes it turns out to be an outstanding success. 
I 
'*Our foreign correspondent, Don Mulloy, has been digging up *dirt' in the south, and cables the following: 'I had a great get-together with Bill Miller in Jackson, Miss. . . . Saw John Dubuisson last week in Opelousas, where he is city judge . . . after graduation, John entered L.S-U. and took unto himself a law degree and a charming bride. They have three daughters, ages: one, two, and three. Kenny Boagni is practicing law* in Opelousas, and is doing right well for himself but I did not have an opportunity to see him. Talked to Leonard Nalty in Baton Rouge. He is in the retail and whoIes.ile ice cream business, is married, and has two children. On my way to Shreveport, I stopped in at Bunkie to see George Pope, Found him well and the proud possessor of the Coca Cola franchise, doing well. He has one daughter, and sends his best to the gang. I spent a verj' pleasant .-jvening in Shreveport at Dick Nowcr^-'s house. Dick's been teaching the boj-s new tricks in the oil game, is married, and has two sons. At the same session were Art Kane and Ale Martzcl; Art is with Southwestern Gas, as advertising manager, is married, and has a little honey, two years old, Vic has been very successful with the United Gas Pipe Line, and looks headed for big things. He is married, and has a son. Called Moon Mnllins today, only to find he has left for his new spot at St. Ambrose in Davenport, Iowa. From what I hear from the natives. New Orleans lost on that deal. Am told Henry Horka has moved to Jack­son, Miss., but couldn't get any exact information. Tried to see Pinky Gassidy in Bogalusa. but didn't get near enough to the town.' 
"Thanks a million, Don Mulloy; we'll nil be seeing you on the campus May 31. 
"Jcrrj- Parker telephoned me between planes from Lambert airport here in St. Louis just a few weeks ago. Jerry was on his way back to New York on another of his cross-countrj* jaunts. Sorry I didn't have a chance to speak to him, but I feel sure that he will fly out for the Re­

"Gcorge Wcbcr, Jr. (Bud) writes from the OIne>' Sanitarium, Inc., in Olney, 111., which he manages for his family, *I have long ago given Mrs. "Weber, as well as Christine (age 2^ ) aiid Miss Margy (age S months) notice that I shall be absent from our home the week-end of May 31. Hcitgcr and I talked regarding Reunion Easter Sunday. Louis doubts very much that he will be able to make it; however, we haven't entirely given up hope of making the trip together, I've written to Donovan in Bedford and asked him to go up with me. So far I have not heard from him..' 
"So, you see, 90 percent of the boys will be back to celebrate our Tenth Anniversary at the University. Lou Haslej*, general chairman of the Reunion Party, who, by the way, has been mar­ried since June, 1935, and has two beautiful daughters, Susan (three) and Jeannette (one) is all pepped up and has everything in readiness. He has issues a warning that you brush up on your golf game, your ping-pong, and your sfiunsh, and asks you not to forget your golf sticks and your water wings, and a little change for the rummy game, 
"Be there as early as possible Friday, May 31, Your correspondent will be in the reception line. Cheerio , . . until then." 
Along with his contribution to the Alumni Office financial welfare, Fred Cunningham sent this message from Oregon: "Now have two sons, aged 5 and 1. Am connected with the TJ. S. De­partment of Agriculture. Had a chance to talk with Jack Cannon when he was here a short time ago w*ith the Columbus Bullies in a professional football game at Portland." 
Dick Sulli\'an, who will be one of the genial hosts when the Thirties take over on May 31, re­cently made the large headlines with the an­nouncement of his appointment as critic for the South Bend Creative Writing Club. For Sec Ilcllning's information: Critic Sullivan, when he isn't professoring at Notre Dame or criticizing in South Bend, is usually at home with his wife, Mabel, and his two daughters, Jill and Molly. The Sullivans specialize in desserts. 
Robert Louis Sopcr sends word that he is an occupational therapist in the Newark State School, Newark, N. Y. (stet). 
On a recent page of pictures in the "Washing­ton Post," outlining the activities of the De­partment of Agriculture, Joe Apodaca, lately pro­fessor at Notre Dame, now a South American specialist in the division of foreign agriculture and agricultural policies, was shown lunching with Secretarj' of Agriculture Wallace. 
•IQ^ f John Berffan. 838 E. Colfax ATennc. I 7 d I South Bend, Indiana. 
From John Bcrgan: 
"Due to many requests the ninth informal reunion of the class will be held on Friday, May 31, at the German Village, South Bend, at 9 o'clock. The South Bend group of the class will act as hosts and show any members of the class who may be present for Commencement a fine time. Bob Ncydon, Joe Dccb and AI Stepan, please note! 
"Frank Leahy, who gained fame in his first year as coach of the Boston College football team, is now* touring the southwest in the interests of the United States Rubber Company, a firm which he is with in the off season. Johnny SnUiran was also in the South in the interests of his book firm. He very sadly took one of the Austin Boylc New Orleans tour and found himself in Mobile three days later. Al Gall has recently joined a new publishing house in New York City. Al and lilrs. Gall often journey up to Stratford, Conn., to see the Andy Patricks. Andy, by the way, has his own architectural office. 
"Charlie Cushwa has confined his territory to YoungstouTi and environs where he may be close to his two fine children. Charlie used to get to South Bend frequently, but not so recently. Joe Blancy, our steelman, has satisfactorily recovered from a verj- serious illness that had him do\vn most of the winter. Joe Dccb, U. S, district at­torney for the Grand Rapids district, had quite a time trying to catch some smelt for his Grand Rapids gang, but the story goes that the smelt outran Joe. 
"Coleman O'Shaughncssy has recently opened up his own advertising agency in New York Gty. Frank Brown is seeking election as city attorney of Pennville, Ind., in the May primaries, Gordie Salmon expects to make his annual western trek for his hardware firm and be present at Com­mencement. Morton Kccgan has recently been appointed head of the educational guidance de­partment of the South Bend City Schools. Dan Lcncioni is practicing law in Kenosha, Wis. No news as to his famib'. Frank Hannabach is an engineer in the Inland Steel Company, East Chi­cago, Ind, Dr, Thad Goraczcwski is seeking the democratic nomination for coroner of St. Joseph county, Ind. 
"So, if you are here for Commencement, don't forget the informal meeting on Friday evening. If you can't make it, a bit of news would be greatly appreciated for the next issue." 
Frank Svoboda was a close second in the recent race for town president of Cicero, 111., suburb of Chicago. Frank is a Republican, 
Marty Brill, as all you newspaper readers know, is the new head football coach on a three-year contract at Loyola in Los Angeles. For seven years Marty was coach at LaSalle in Philadelphia. 
 T. Igoe, 328 South Jefferson. 

1932 
James 
Chicago, Illinois. 

From Jim Igoc: "Jim Doi^'ns has a new degree in addition to the one he got down at school, — the newly-acquired honor is Bachelor of Night Life on Rush Street. He accomplished this with a lot more e.nse than his A.B. eight years ago. Please ad­dress him as J. Edward Downs, B.N,L.R. 
"Ernie Hcchinger is working at Ccco Steel. He has been married for five months, so the boys don't see him as much as they used to. 
*'Bamie Bernhardt, from Sturgeon Bay, bowled in the recent ABC Tournament. His score wasn't so hot. but he managed to get his car stolen. 
•*Ed J. Kelly is a prosperous New York stock broker. Wanna' buy some A. T. & T.?' 
"Ben SaU'aty was married by Father Dorcmus a couple of months ago in the I<og Chapel. His pal Leo *Sad Sam' Schiavonc is getting married in October, Ben married an Irish girl, and Leo is going to do likewise, which proves what a great influence all us nice Irish lads on the cam­pus had on these two boys. 
"Stan Czapalski is putting a new fountain in his drug store. This is undoubtodly to attract even more of the feminine trade than he now enjoys. 
"Hcnrj* Asman is a paractising physician in Louis\'ilIe. 
"Jack Hcrbstritt is working for the (Thicago Cardboard Qpmpany and is building a new home in Elmwood Park. There is no truth to the rumor that the house will be built of cardboard. 
Jack is married and has two kids. "Bill Burshardt went straight from a western construction camp to WGN's best announcer. Fan mail has increased terrifically since Bill's smilins 'pan* was run in the newspaper. You can get a free sample of Old Manse SsTup by writing to Bin Burghardt. care of the station to ^vhich you are listening — or are you? 
"Here arc some of the '32 boys that are on the campus that I have heard about: 
"Frank Gartland is a C.S.C., and is very much in the lead in University affairs as prefect of religion. 
*'Frank O'Malley is teaching English at which he is past master. '(Gripes, how would you like to have an English teacher reading this drivel?)' Frank got his first teaching experience on the third floor of "Walsh helping mc. (Go ahead, O'Malley, say I'm a lousy writer now!) 
"Hack Wilson is somewhere around the campus I understand, although I haven't heard anything about him. I mentioned these above fellows that are on the campus so you can all stop in their room after football games to toast your shins-O'kay, I'll see you there. 
**For pure unadulterated success we give you George Bcntlcy Ryan, our own '32 boy. George is the lawj'er for most of the chorines in Holly­wood. 
"George CulUnan is in Shanghai. China, on a five-yenr assignment. I don't know the name of the company George is representing, but I imagine it has offices at the Chinese equivalent of Colfax !ind Michigan Avenues. 
**Thad Xclowski is a surgeon here in Chicago. 

*'Clay Johnson is somewhere in "Washington *' helping 'Baldy' McKcvitt and F. D. R. 
"Tom Bums is teaching school in Rochester. 

X. Y. 
"Paul Host is manager of the sporting goods departAient of the Fair Store in Chicago. This will be downright handy for his two kids when they start to U5e boxing gloves, etc. 
"Ed Mclchinnc recently was crowned handball champion of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. He beat no less a formidable opponent than Al Culver in the finals. 
"Keller Madden has a state job in Tndianapolis. 
"A letter from Jack Jordan. Jack has been admitted to the New York Bar and is still a G-man, as he has been for the past five years. The Jordan household is to be blessed with a little G-man some time this spring. 
"From Jim Ward. 'Getting around as I do on my bicycle delivering telegrams, I run into some of the old fellows occasionally.* 
" *Drcw Shicblcr, although a recent bridegroom, manages, to get a 12 per, every Thursday to join us in a iwker game.' 
" 'W. Gerard Weir, the Greenpoint attorney, was very busj* the other day with his feet on his desk reading the Racing Form when Willie Willigan called to see him.' 
" *I dropped in to see Flo McCarthy the other day in the new ofi'ice of the Local Loan Company which he manages here in Brooklyn.* 
" 'I met Gene Connolly at the Rockne Commun­ion Breakfast, and he was pissing out cigars on the recent addition to his family. He. Drew, and Jack Guerin were the only two '32 men I saw.* 
" 'Nobody has seen Willie Fitz in quite a spell. Of course, it is hard for you coming from a small town to understand that.' 
(See's note: Despite the acquisition of Leo Durocher as Brooklyn manager, it is quite evident that all of the dafilness isn't out of Brooklyn yet.) 
" 'Have I told you about my Jaurhter, Mary Ann, age 20 months. Get comfortable!' 
"Thanks for your help. Jim. 
"Barrj- O'Kccfe was elected secretary of the alumni club here in Chicago last January. He is doing a splendid job in this as in everything 
— except bridge. 
"OUie Powers is selling syrup and preserves for Oelerich & Berry. 
"I am rapidly running out of information: unless we are going to have a great big white space underneath the 1932 class news next month. 
"Whatthehell, you don't need to know me to write me a letter. DO IT NOW!" 
Jack Jordan was admitted to the New York Bar last December and is now practicing at 2180 Ticbout Ave., New York City. 
Joe Pctritz, athletic director of the "Alumnus" at a phenomenal salary, handball and tennis player extraordinary, ard. incidentally, athletic publicity director of ye U., tamed the South Bend Lions recently with his recital of the sor­rows and joys of the college publicity man. 
R. J. Ekstein, of Cutler-Hammer. Inc., in Cleveland, when he wrote recently to inquire about the entrance requirements for his son, had nothing but fulsome praise for Hugh Ball. Hugh works for Mr. Ekstein. 
I
Q^ O Edmund Moriarty. 1027 Femdon Road, '^ ^ Ann Arbor, Michigan. 
From Eddie Moriartj*: 
"Norb Schwartz, as expected, has come through in grand st>-le with several bits re: our wander­ing brethren that he has tracked down. The modest Norb failed to mention an>*thing .".Ifout himself, but from the letterhead we assume that he is in the hardware business in Salina, Kansas, and doing ver>' well, too, we'll wager. 
"Norb reports that Bill (Rabbi) Lynch, usually a dependable source of news from the East, has produced nothing better than a Christmas card for a new low. Come. come, '\\nilyam! That Dick (the fun loving) Mcadc has apparently been swallowed up by San Francisco's fog. but is making a din for "Washington State apples in the advertising firm of J. Walter Thompson in the Baj- City. That Johnny English was playing ring­master for the Silver Skis R:ices held recently at Mt. Rainier, "Wash. That Leo Cummings still had his feet on a desk in the McCormick Lines' office and champing at the bit till the spring opening of Seattle's Longacre's track. That while %valking along the street in Kansas City Norb ran into Norman Bowes, still cloaked in his old air of mys­ter>-. The same day Dick Prezcbel was also spotted on the street in K C. 
"That Johnny Pcnotc was a visitor in Salina overnight enroutc to Dallas, Texas, where he lives on Lover's Lane, is married, has a little daugh­ter, and is selling trenching materials to the mid­west and southern pipe line companies. Johnny confided to Norb that Marion Blake is now. pre­maturely, a platinum blonde, and could be an admirfr of Paul McNutt. Aside to Marion — Red Armhnistcr s.iys not to he surprised if he drops in on you some fine day. Herr Armbruster is in Detroit now, in the circulation department of the 'Michigan Catholic' Johnny came up with an interesting note on Ed LcRoux. whom we have had no word from in many years. Ed is employed in Hungary by an oil company, and was living, 
until the war. near Budapest, with Mrs. LeRoux and a babj- daughter. Following the outbreak of hostilities. Mother and daughter returned to this country because, besides the danger, proper food for Daughter LeRoux was scarce and difficult to procure. Cyril Enthrup is another hard-working husband and father of one. Living in Cleveland and assf>ciatcd with Richman Clothes. Among Johnny's visitors in Dallas during the winter was Dick Shieb. of Cincinnati, who is selling lumber, still single, but reported willing to drop the celi­bate life at the earliest opportunity. 
"Ran into J<*n Kelley at the Detroit Club's "Universal Night banquet and John, who has been around considerably during the past seiren years, had several smash scoop? to offer. John is doing chcm-engineering work for the "Q. S. Gypsum CJ6­in Genoa, Ohio. He revealed that Bad Haberkem is living in Springfield, Ohio, is married, the father of three children — look to your laurels. Grange Weil — and is vi-ith the Superior Engine Co. in that city. That Ed Stanton is in the Chem-Engineering Research Department of Singer Sew­ing Machine Co. in South Bend. That Cy Rapier. single as yet, is in the refrigeration business for himself in Decatur, 111. That Frank Jenny, who received his Doctor's degree from MJ.T. in *3". is now in New York designing engineering equip­ment, is very successful, and did quite a stint in F^ris in his chosen work. That Neil Ebert, when last heard from, had the Buick agency in Nor­walk, Ohio, and is married. That Bob Heitzer is with the Government Architectural Service in Lafayette. Ind., and has charge of 16 counties. That Ed Lopker is superintendent of the General Chemical Company's sulphuric acid plant in "Wil­mington, Del. That John Donnelly, formerly of Holland. Mich., is completing his theological course at St. Mary's seminary in "Washington, and will be ordained in June. That John Sloan is practicing law in Peoria, HI-, and, as reported in an earlier issue, is president of both the Notre Dame and Northwestern alumni clubs of that city. That large Oscar Dames is in business for himself, selling ball bearings. That Larry Stitt is an architect in Chillicothe, Ohio. That Jim Gerend is with the Reiss Coal Co. in Sheboygan, "Wis. 
"That Mike Coyle, who married a South Bend girl, is practicing law in Tawas City, Mich. That Johnnie Baldwin is still a roving representative of the Pepsi-Cola Co. That RolHe Bunch is mar­ried and reported to be practicing medicine in Chicago, having completed his studies at Rush Mcaical there. 
•'Information supplied by John on Jim Baker certainly adds a refreshing note. Jim, whom we nil remember for his managerial activities at school, is now the owner of a gold mine in northern Ontario. He is married, is the proud father of a little boy. and is living in a commun­ity where there are only six other families. He has six engineers doing assay work for him and, we're very glad to report, has been very suc­cessful. 
"George Bcaudin sent in a few late flashes on 
some of the Chicagoans, reporting that Jack 
O'Shaughnessy is moving to Kansas, where he is 
to be counsel for an oil company. That Bill Knox 
recently bought a new home in a new district 
west of Evanston. That J. D. Kanaley is still 
raking in the heavy folding with his multiple in­
terests. He recently sold his hardware business, 
but this is just one of few. Fred Becklenbersr* 
Mrs. B. and the two little Bees enjoyed a six-
weeks' sojourn in Miami Beach this winter. That 
Tom Sexton, president of the Thomas We'iib Sexton 
Coffee Co. was seen at the Chicago U.N.D. Night 
with six or so brother coffee barons in tow. That 
Jack Jacgar, late of the Pittsburgh hosiery indus­
try. and recently divorced from a seven-state terri­tory, is back in Chicago, and last reported em­ploying a system of watchful waiting. That Pat Crowley is fast being recognized as one of the legal brains of the Loop area. George is out of town most of the week for the Kroydon Co., but despite his large territory, is able to get back to the home fires almost every week-end. 
"Hoped to see Larry Sexton in Detroit for the American Bowling Congress. Larry and Brother John are both married and. when last heard from, were in business with their father in Indianap­olis. Ernie Garcaro was in town for a few days from Fort Wa>-ne. He is expected to stroll aisle-ward in the fall. Saw Bemic Cousino at the Detroit TJ.N.D. partj-. He is married and is in a farm products business in Erie, Mich. Inci­dentally, we had a nice '33 representation at the party including' Bemie, John Kelly, who came up with a group of 30 from Toledo, Jack Brccn, Ted Feldroan, Bob Powell, Jerry Ashley, who is launching a new Inundrj- business. George Arm­bruster. Grander Weil, and Walt Duprc, from Port Huron, and Vic Schaffncr. 
"Jack, Ted, Bob, Ernie, Vic and myself are adjusting the sights for reunion week and Com­mencement at school. Hope we'll have a banner *33 attendance. For you fellows who have made it before, there's nothing to be said, and for those who haven't — come and see. You'll never regret it. 
Many thanks to Xorb, George Rohrs, John Kellcy, George Bcandin and all gents responsible for the info contained herein. Keep up the good work and we*II just keep rollin' along." 
Carroll Stalcj', now with Proctor & Gamble in Chicago, will be v.-ilh the same outfit in Milwaukee after July 1. Carroll says: "Got mnrried last July, but my t\vin brother Seton (Fred), also '33, is One up on me, with a fine little boy. Seton is selling food products out of Hamilton. Ohio." Carroll sent a generous'contribution to the Alum­ni Office to keep his addrcssograph plates intact. 
^Q^A ^L Robert CahUL Athletic Assodation. I TJ*T Notre Dame, Indiana. 
From Bob Cahill: 
"My good classmates, I have but four measly communications this month, so this column, that had burgeoned so fine but a few months back, is now easing off I fear. There is but one more issue before closing up for the year, so if you want to see your name in print, if you want the boys to know what's happened to you, if you want to be successful, send in some stuff to ol* Bob. How about a little help? T could go on filling up si»ace saying nothing, but 1*11 limit it to what you sent me. 
**Bob Hamilton, now pales manager of the Du-more Company of Racine, Wis,, makers of electric motors, tools, appliances, etc.. says: 'Recently my dad was out on the Coast and saw Augic Von Boecklin. He seems to }.-e doing very well for himself. dri\*ing a Mercury, and taking an active part in the wood working and lumber mill plant with which he is connected in Tacoma. One of tlie^e days I p'an on giving you a lot of informa­tion about the boys so you can fill your column. Incidentally, there seems to be an awful lot of life in the class of *34's column and much of it is due to you. (Note: T guess he meant up to this month]. . . . Thanks a lot for everything, etc* 
"Comes an unsigned note from South Bend, as follows: 'Better late than never — so they say — so I \vish to inform you that Joseph Thomas Voegelc, of Peoria, is the proud papa of a boy 
— some 16 months old. His wife is the former Miss Irene Murdock of South Bend, who is the sister of Benedict F. Murdock, '40.' To whomever sent this note, thanks. The handwriting was feminine, so if any of you wives haven't anything to do. and I know j-ou don't, just sit down and drop us a line about the old man. I'd be glad to get the feminine slant en some of those '34 heels. 
"Here's a postcard from Harvey Rockwell, 1202 Essex House. Newark. N. J. 'Please forgive my not having written before but 1*11 try to do better in the future. "While it's no excuse, my alibi is in trying to run a column mj-self (see the New Jer­sey Club news). We were distraught to hear of Coach Nicholson's passing and extend most sin­cere sympathies. Shall try to ^vrite soon again and I feel fully chastised in your column.' CUB column. Harve. OUR column, if you don't mind. 

Ralph Else reached me April IG with this letter: 'Reading your current column fsee above correc­tion to Rockwell, Else,] I noticed the challenge to myself from Lcs Jandoli. I think I can better take care of Les in June as my brother John graduates from the Engineering school. I look forward to seeing some of the boys. I shall enjoy seeing you again and telling you what a fine work I believe you are doing as our secretary. [Honest. guys, I haven't paid these men a thing, really. I guess they can't think of anything else to tell me]. Being situated in Auburn, N. Y., I have lost some contact with the Notre Dame boys as it seems there is none here at the present time from my class. [That IS exceptional, Ralph. Isn't there a 
prison in Auburn?] As my mother and dad live in Buffalo, I \'isit there frequently week-^nds. Of course, now with the golf season beginning to open up, I shall probably have to cut down on my visits as this is great golfing country.* 
" 'On Easter I attended the Notre Dame Club dance in Buffalo and had a veiy enjoyable time due to a great extent, I believe, to President Lionel Smith. Bob Moore, and Jack Travers. I believe Li will help the Buffalo Club, and I cer­tainly wish him the very best. I am extremely busy and especially at this time. I hope to see you in June and I'm buying you a drink. Don't drink, eh? That "ain't the way I heered it." See you. Bob, and take care of '34.' Thanks. Ralph. Soda with" mine. Else's address is 30 North St.. Auburn. N. Y. 
"That takes care of those who took the trouble to write. 
"I have been mulling over, since the last issue, a little idea that struck me. You who read the 'Alumnus* know that a page is devoted to 'Spot­light Alumni,' coverine, of course, all classes. I sez to myself, sez I, why couldn't we do that in our column, but limit it to the MARVELOUS MEN of '34? And make our nominations not only for fame^ or financial gain, but for having ful­filled Catholic responsibilities; or, for anything curious that might have befallen a classmate. Take me, for example — I majored in Foreign Commerce and haven't gotten off the campus yet! 
"But seriously. I would like to hear from you. We could name, say, just one a month. And to start it off, I give you my MARVELOUS MAN OF '34 for this month, Jim Keants. Jim, you'll re­member, used to write those fearless pieces about keeping off the grass when he edited the 'Scholas­tic' He went with the 'Chicago Daily News' right after graduation, and in no time at all had a by-line on the sports page, and, incidentally, the 'Daily News' has one of the finest sport sections in journalism today. I^ast summer, Jim did a series of stories on Dizzy Dean which brought him the plaudits of even his competitors, and from older, experienced men in his field. That's a compliment, when it comes from a rival. He also has a daily column 'The Score Card.' But what is of inter­est to us. gents, is that he really keeps N.D. on those pages, too. If some of you were thinking of taking a paper for Notre Dame sport news. Jim's sheet is excellent. Nor is this intended to sell short Ardi >^'ard's famous 'Chicago Tribune* sport sheet, but merely a boost for James K. Keams. the Grantland Rice of '34. 
"Now let's have a nominalion for next month. See you then. Look me up at Commencement. 
- "Press time flash from Harrj- Rockett. Boston attorney: 
" 'On the first of June I am to be married to Miss Clare O'Brien of Boston at St. Gregory's Church, Dorchester, Mass. I suppose it is an event which some of our classmates from Alumni Hall (1933) may laugh at in view of the many good times we had while there. But give me a thought on that day and trust that Boston w^ill at least be threatened with good weather — some­thing unknown thus far this spring.* " 
Dave i/L Feferman, now living in Los Angeles, visited his parents in South Bend prior to his at­tending the Bankers Life Company sales school in Chicago. Dave became asociated with the X^s Angeles branch of the Bankers Life Company in Jan.. 1940. and made an outstanding production record for his first three months in the life in­surance business — the Chicago school being a distinct reward for his success. 

Bob Measer, just returned from the Dominican Republic. Haiti and Puerto Rico, reports a pleas­ant reunion in Buffalo when he, John Sloan, of Peoria. 111., and Jack Travers, Buffalo, got to­gether for a day. The noted Prexy Sloan was in Buffalo with the Peoria team for the K. of C. bowling tournament. 
fO^C Franklyn C Hochreiter, 530 Saint I Td9 Peter St.. New Orleans, Loubianm. 
5-yEAR REUNION 
Class of 1935 May 31, June I and 2 

Ad\'ancc note: Since many of the students will not leave the campus until May 30 (even though it is Memorial Day), it will be impossible for the University service staff to have rooms ready for returning alumni before May 31 (Friday). 
From Hoch: 
"Well, gang, the response to the letter has been good, but not as good as we had hoped. We've waited all week and only about a fifth of the out­fit have returned their cards. What happened to the other four fifths? It didn't cost a cent to drop it in the mailbox. AH you had to do was fill it in and let us have the dope. Our editor extended the deadline till the 22nd so we can't wait any longer for the stragglers. We*Il give you the 'remarks* of those returning and those who regret they can't make it. For those of you who just returned the cards 'checked' with no comments — we'll list you in the class in which you fall. Then at the end — something of com­mittees and plans. 
The first letter comes from the President of the United States through his secretary. We felt it proper to send him a form letter, too, along with a personal note, since he is an honorary member of the '35 outfit. We give you his reply: 
"THE WHITE HOUSE, WASHINGTON April 15, 1940 My dear Mr. Hochreiter: 
The President has asked me to thank you and, through you, the members of the Alumni of the Class of 1935 of the University of Notre Dame for the cordial invitation they have extended to him to join in the class reunion to be held May thirty-first through June second. 
"While the President deeply appreciates your thoughtful ness in remembering him, he has asked me to convey his sincere regret that he cannot come to Notre Dame for this interesting celebra­tion. He asks if you will be good enough to convey his best wishes to all those attending. 
"With kindest regards. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Edwin M. W,^tson, 
Secretary to the President." 

"Now to the cards of those returning to date: Bob Shanahxn will be coming back. He sa>'s: 'M.irried August 16, 1938, Joan E. Quinkect of Roseville, Michigan — no children.* 
•*WaU Sheahan writes: 'To be married May 25, 1940 — hope to see a lot of the '35ers at the re­union, Frank.* 
Vic Knrzweg, practicing law down in native Louisiana, writes he is coming; was married June 18. 1938, and says he would like to have us drop up to sec him when we get back to New Orleans. "We'll be there, Vic 
**John Nccson writes: 'Do your best to get most of the boys back — your job during these five years has been excellent.' John is coming. 
"Vinee Hogan from New York wrote 'yes' to the first query and 'ditto* to the second, and says. 'Too much to say in so little space, so I'll keep it and skip it now.' 
"Jack Lively — 'I expect to be admitted to the 

N.Y. Bar Association. The only thing that may possibly prevent my being to the reunion would be to have the swearing in exercises the same date as the reunion.' 
"Jim Rcvillc — *My present position is with my legs crossed, stooped over a draughting tabic which is in my own office. Not married but soon my Dad hopes. My, My, My, and how I wonder-where you get all the time to manage that very bright column and all the other things you've been up to — coming.* 
"Bob Donahue — 'Will try to get down if at all possible and bring Bill Cole, now living at Nevada, Missouri, with me.' 
"Tom Campbell — 'Single and very happy — haven't missed a reunion since graduation.' 
"Cliff Dudley — 'Best of luck, Hoch. with the arrangements. I'm doing my best to be there for Friday night.' 
"Frank Vukovich — Married August 30, 1937 — 'You'll know me when I arrive.' 
"Walt Ryan — 'Married January 20, 193G — also father of an S-months-oW girl. Sorry X didn't get around to notify you, Hoch.' "Walt's coming. Congratulations daddy! 
"John Annas — John says he will 'absolutely he there Friday night — looking forward to seeing all of the fellows and teachers of class of '35.* John w-as married June 17, 1939. 
"Tonj- Andrconi — 'You said it, I'm coming — bringing Fred Koch, '36, with me.' 
"Tony Crowley •— Your old mail man, Hoch! Hope to have the pleasure of meeting your wife at reunion — Regards.' 
"Jim Pick — 'Coming — all I want to see is Al Lawton's Russian baby.' 
"Ben Bcyrer — *Am looking fonvard to seeing the gang. Regards to you, Hoch.* Ben was mar­ried March G, 1937. 
"Tom Leonard — 'Coming. Daughter bom (Kathleen Ann) December 3 1939' — Congratula­tions, Tom! 
"Frank Koppclbcrger — 'It'll be swell seeing all the fellows and good friends again. You've been doing an excellent job — best regards.* 
"Russ O'Shaca — 'Graduation week-end at Notre Dame, and reunion time as well, is one occasion which should well reward one's time spent in attending it. I tell you — it's won­derful !' 
"Bill Ryan — 'Will trj* to write more before deadline. However, here's an invite to you. Hoch. or any '35cr to drop in either at Assoc Invest. or our apartment — any time!' (The address — 1076 Lincolnway ISast). Bill was married No­vember 24, 1938. 
"Tony Danning — 'I'll be there, Hoch — mar­ried at the "Los Chapel May 7, I93S — now have a baby girl.* Our best, Tony! 
"George Dcmctrio — 'Get them all out. Frank, before w-e go "over there!**' 
John 'Gunner' McGrath — 'As chairman of the Sednlia delegation,^we will be happy to attend with our band of drum majorettes. Let's keep politics out of this reunion, also Duke Walters!' 
"Carl Weber — 'Been looking forward fo this reunion for the past four and a half years.' Carl was married October 15. 1938. 
"Matt Ronzone — 'I have been here (Frankfort High School. Frankfort, Ind.) four years. Came here after I received M.S. in Education at Indiana 
University (1936).* Mat is on his way to the 
smoker. 
"George Foss — 'Was married at the Log Chapel Easter Monday. Howie Mnrdock, '37, was best man. Wes LOH-CII, *36, also present as well as Kcv. John Lj-nch, C.S.C., '25. Bride was Mary 
M. Herbert of Dunmore, Pa.' George will be with Mi — maybe w^ith bride, George? Lots of happi­ness, fella! 
"Roy Scholz — 'Have recently been appointed as assistant resident physician here for the year starting July 1. Am looking fonvard to seeing the old gang. Stir up the '35 pre-meds. won't you?' (We will tell you more about a follow-up letter from Dr. Scholz presently.) 
"Ed O'Hara —• 'How about a splash party in the new pool for the '35ers and their wives?' Ed was married June 12, 1937. 
"Claude Tourck •— 'Will be married June 15, 1G40 — I'll be there.' (That's right, fellas — at the reunion and the wedding!) 
"Luke Kelly — Hi yeh, boy! Are there any rr-ts to chase away in your present apartment. Enjoyed the long letter of Pat Fisher you pub­lished and also your column every month. "Was out with Joe O'Kane, who is coaching up in Troy, 
N.Y. Having N.D. meeting at University Club to­night —• wish you were here — love and kisses to your wife. Mrs. H.' (Luke is no longer in social work — now with Remington Rand, in Albany, N. Y.)' Glad you're coming, Luke — much to talk over! 
"Harry Gafney — "This is the first letter I have received since graduation that didn't contain a bill or A summons to court — so consequently, George McGrath and I w-ill try our best to be present.' 
"Joe Washko — 'I hope that all goes well that I may. keep the abo\'e date.* Joe was married June 12. 1939. 
"Sig Sluszka — 'Baby S. Gregor>' — a fresh­man in 1958 at N.D., we hope. He's strong, big and a husky Sluszka. Fullback material. I'll be there!' Felicitations on the fifth horseman, Sig! 
"Now let's get to the crowd who just returned the Card with the top line checked to the two important questions; hut with no comments. The following reported they would be with us: 
"Jack Slattcry — married July 1. 1939; Bill Bernard; Bob Carter — married June 4, 193S; Leo DiUon; Bill Ottc; Joe Beck; Hal Kohlman — mnrried February 4. 1939: Jim Divyor; Paul Car­roll; Kurt Simon; Jim 0*Mcara, Clare Burger; John Burke — married February 11. 1939; John . Allen; Jack Shodron — where is that promised letter; Jack?: Art Korzcncski — married June 21, 1939: Phil Kirley; Bill Hoffcrt; Tom Proctor — married September 8, 1939; Duke Walters •— mar­ried June 17, 1939; Hurdis Dausman; Joe Argus; John Malloy. Ray Shea; Bemie 0*Brien -— mar­ried July 1, 1939: Phil Heinle; and Aaron Hamm. 
"Those are the fellas returning for the smoker on Friday night gang — plus all those whose cards come in after this date — and we hope there will be a lot more because we are planning on 200 for the smoker — Let's talk it up! The following will be back for the week-<nd but are doubtful about the Smoker: 
"John Pogue — Married October 30, 1937 — 1 son, eight months old.' Congratulations. John! 
"Jack McDonnell — Jack 'hopes' to be at the reunion but not the smoker. He writes — 'Mar­ried August 20, 1938. Belated congratulations on your Own wedding and hope to be able to see you at the roundup!* 
"Pat Qaiglcy — 'It will certainly be a treat to see the "Old School* and classmates of '35.' "Tom Sepe — 'Uncertain about return — mar­
ried May 9, 1937. Tom Yarr, '32, is manager of our Kansas Gty office.' (Public Loan Corp.) 
"Al McCarthy — 'If I can line up Chnck Horns and Pete Viviano, etc I will do my best to be there.' 
"Roland Rouleau — 'Cannot leave town until Saturday noon — Charlie Sdiill and myself will be along Saturday afternoon. Incidentally, Schill was married the 13th of April to Miss Jane Sheridan of Pfeoria. Blatt Sagartz. Bill Gorgan, and Phil Kirley attended.* Thanks, Roland — and to you, Charlie — our very best for happiness and success! 
"Clarence Pickard — 'Married October 8, 1938 
— proud father of John Clarence, Jr.. born Feb­ruary 2, 1940. Hope to see you at the reunion. Hoch.' Clarence says he 'probably' will make the smoker — Atta boy. *pic' Felicitations on the ofTspring! 
"Frank Leonard — 'Married July 23, 1938 — daughter bom Easter Sunday, 1940 — Joan Fran­ces.' Our best to you. proud father! See you Saturday, June 1. •• 
"Bob Shields — 'Married November 28. 1936, and have one-year-old girl.' Another man who made the grade — our best. Bob! 
"Art Kranzfelder will make the week-end some­time, but not for Friday night, as will John Groos. 
"Bob Pendergast — 'Married November 4. 1937. Has Louis Yaeger of "Wheeling, "W. "Va., said that he was coming?' Not yet. Bob, but we are wait­ing for his card. Hope you can wipe out that (?) for Friday night! 
"Bob Fox — 'I'll try to make it Friday night — married July 10, 1937 — 2 children: girl, 23 months, and boy. 10 months.' The glad hand on the last one. Bob! 
"Dick Ballman — 'Am looking forward to a renewal of old acquaintances and an all-around good time.* Let*s make it Friday, Dick! 
"Bob Lee — 'Married June 25. 1938 — Would like to get together on transportation with some­one from vicinity.* Okay, fellas — what do you say to getting in touch with Bob at 59 Ellsworth Ave., New Haven, Conn.? Gafney and McGrath 
— how about you helping out. Bob ? We'll be look­ing for the three of you on Friday night! 
"John Fry — 'Am planning to attend the re­union and will try to make the smoker. Married April 3, 1937. "Will there be something for wives to do?' (Nice question, John, and of it more in a moment!) 
"Before we get to the letters that have come in 
—
 here are the names of the men who can't make it for the reunion. We will tabulate their marriages and present jobs and remarks for the June issue. Now we want to give you just their names. They sent regrets, and we will turn them all over to you next time when we have more room. Charlie Williamson, Ken Whipps, Fred Erdle. Glenn Vuhs, Joe Morphy, Neil Cro»r­ley. Bill Steis. Dick Shamla, Jim Sheib, George Isselman, Ed Lonegan. Klatt Winkle, (But Matt says there may be a possibility of his getting a^vay from the plant long enough — 'will certainly try-to get away but questionable.' — How about put­ting the pressure on, kid?), John Maddock (John says nothing definite — but we are keeping a spot for you, fella 1), Bill Moss (make those (?s) a *yes,' Bill), Clyde BatchiHor, Herb Nadean, Art Brown (but writes Art — 'Hoch, I certainly would like to attend, business permitting. If at all pofr* sible, I'll be there. At present I have my doubts." 

—
 Come on, fella!), and with a deep regret we quote from the card of Regina Tingley — *John 

K.
 Tingley died November 20. 1939.' Thank you, Regina — we know John will be with us just the same! 


"Now to the letters — we wish we could quote them all in full, but with this copy going in late we shall have to conserve on space. But we'll give you the meat of each. 
"First is a wire from Mart Hcndcle •— 'The first. I hope, to say I'll be there.' — Not the first. Mart, but nearly! 
"Bob Scott — Bob is doubtful but thinks he may "be able to work up a good reason to bring the new baby son — a junior — home to see Grand­daddy. Bob married Eleanor Elliott of South Bend. The son was born March 11, 1940. Bob has heen transferred by National Harvester from North Dakota, to Minneapolis and is sales pro­motion manager now. Nice going. Bob! Con­gratulations on the child — make that a trip for three — we'll be looking for you to offer the hand of best wishes! 
"We have a long letter from Ben Bcyrcr which we shall have to leave stand for the moment as to detail. It came while we were home at Easter — but too late for the last issue. The important thing is that Ben is with the Juvenile Court of St. Joseph County and invites the boys to drop in at bis home at 633 Lincolnway East over the week-end. You won't have to worry about the National Conference of Social "Work, Ben — we shall be there all week and drive down to N.D. Friday morning. 
"Another communication came along after the copy went in for April from New Orleans. It was a formal announcement of the partnership of Bob Albert and Ed Kilmnrray. attomeys-at-law, prac­ticing at 402 Badger Bldg., Racine, Wis., as of March 15, 1940. 
"We received your. letter this past week. Ed. and are sorry we had to keep the above until this date — you just missed the deadline last time. We quote from Ed's letter: 'Of course you knew Bob (Alberts) and Rita Bittorf were married, but did you know they had a six-month-old baby boy called David? I fear very few bachelors have sur­vived the first five years. What are your plans for the summer? WHll you remain in Chicago? I'm eager to see you again and to meet Mrs. Hoch. Of course if I don't sec you before the Reunion, I'll see you in June. In the meantime if there is anything I can do to help mnke the gathering a success, let me know.' Thanks a mil­lion, Ed. Bring the Wisconsin crowd \%-ith you — and definitely. Bob. Hope to be out of here some­time in June after Reunion — plans for the future not definite. 
"And another swell letter came too late for the last issue — if only Jim Farley had rushed his boys — this one from the long lost but never to be forgotten — >Iitch Salch. now in Houston, as chief design engineer for the Houston Lighting & Power Co. All the swell dope will keep till next time, Mitch — and the important thing is to quote: 'About that reunion, none of the Houston contingent has definitely decided one way or an­other about answering "present" to the roll call, however, I for one am trj-ing to make my plans find me in South Bend on that famous wcek.end. 
It may be a far cry from Houston, but it will be well worth the effort to see all the old gang I've thought about the past five years. Franklyn. I'll cut the chatter now but I'll be looking forward to seeing you and the rest of the class and Mrs. Scribe, as you call her. at the reunion. I'll be harder to stop then.' "We have you down marked 'present,* Mitch, as you will see in a moment. Don't fail us! 
"Bob Carter came through as soon as we re­turned from the South and we wish we could give you all he has to offer but we will cat it to: 'After taking my MJV. at Columbia, T.C. I re­ceived an appointment here as athletic director (Amarillo College, Amarillo, Texas.) . . . The better half and I are both planning on the five-year reunion, so count us in on it please. If possible let ns know something of the plans. You are doing a swell job with the alumni news — keep it up.* We appreciated your letter. Bob. The rest of the plans follow. Glad you are bringing the wife. 
"Jim Jennings sent along a missive just before the cards went out. Jim inquires after the re­union plans and says that he finished the law at Texas U. in 193S and has been practicing ever since with the firm of G. T. Watts in Roswell, 
N. Mex. We quote: 'If nothing happens, I think that I will be able to make it back to the reunion.' We are expecting j-ou, Jim — the plans follow. Thanks for the letter — we needed it. 
"Tony Andrconi sent a letter with his card to 'let-all the ex-inmates of Sorin Sub know I'm still alive. . . . Alas and alack! I'm' not as big as I was in the golden era. I've lost 60 pounds and now weigh a few pounds over a ton. I want to hear from Aloe Sec, Kitty Gorman, Joe McCabe, Mike Delay, and Norm Duke. Don Havrick is touring the state (Ohio) with the Buckeye Union Insurance Co. and is almost as big as I am.* 
"John Porcoro dropped us a note before the offcial letter went out and said, 'I'm out here in the midwest (Winnebago, Minn.) for a spell — selling typewriters; I hope to be at reunion.* Make it Friday night, John, for a big turnout! 
"Thomas Jefferson Foley wrote: 'I will attend the '35 reunion and I will be there for the Smoker on Friday night. At present I am employed by Anderson, Clayton & Co. selling cotton in the Memphis office —- they have been my only em­ployer. I am not married. I am still playing. I have no other remarks for the present, but just waiting for the time I can say "Hi, Hoch !" Atta boy, Jerry — see you soon! 
"George Issclman wrote a long letter which we would lilie to give you word for word — but we must cut it to: 'Sorry that we will be unable to make the reunion but our vacation is planned for the last two weeks in June for a Wisconsin trip. . . . Wish I could be there as I still classify myself as a middle westerner. . . . Remind Frank Koppclbcrgcr he owes me a letter for a long time. My best wishes for a very successful reunion to you and to Mrs. H. my personal regards.' George is with the Aluminum Goods Mfg. Co. The Isselmans had a baby daughter June 14. 1939. Our felicitations and thanks, George. Mrs. Scribe also thanks you for one of the attractive cards. Wish you could be with us! 
"Bill Kennedy', Law '35, wrote that he was torn between two camps — his B.i\^ class of '33 and ours. He was back in '38 and can't make it this year. - Bill was married to Eileen Kelly, October 1, 193S, at Cedar R::pids and welcomed Michael Kelly Kennedy on October 30, 1939. Bill is wind­ing up his second term as county attorney in New Hampton, Iowa. Says Bill: 'I regret that I w*ill not be able to make it this year. Notre Dame is always pleasant in the spring of the year, even if one does not run on to a lot of old friends and acquaintances. .. . Be assured that I hope your reunion will be a whole-hearted success.* Thanks a lot. Bill. We appreciated your thoughtful letter. Best wishes on the junior of the family, and on the marriage. AVish there were more Kennedys and Andreonis in the law class of '35 — we might get better response. 
"Now to the last letter — the one" from Roy Scholz that we mentioned. We have kept it until last because Roy's suggestion has been incorpor­ated into the reunion plans. In addition to his card Roy sent along an interesting missive in which he suggested that a Mass for Father Wen­ninger might be in order and that the pre-mcds of *35 would attend in a body and receive Hob' (^mmunion. We thought so much of it that we have notified the office and final plans are being made for it. Thank you, Roy, for your coopera­tion — we appreciated it. 
"Here are the plans, gang, as they line up at the moment, subject to change when you arrive on campus. Keep your eyes peeled for sign noti­fying you of any change — watch the bulletin board in your residence hall for time alterations. 
"1) Committees. In addition to co-chairman Tom Proctor, the following are asked to look us up at the Hoffmann Hotel, the Alumni Office, or our class residence hall as soon as they arrive —• leave a note, if w*e cannot be found, as to where we can reach you immediately: A. Arrangements: Art Korzcncski. Jack Clark, Roy Sdiolz; B. Smoker: Mitch Salch, Cliff Dudley, Luke Kelly, George Demetrio; G. Residence: Joe Washko. Carl Wcbcr, Gunner McGrath; D. 5-10 year ball game: Bob Carter, Ed O'Hara, Haro" Gafncy. 

"2) Residence: the official '35 hall has not as yet been assigned as we go to press. You will be notified by signs on the campus. Get your room immediately. Even though you remain in town or live in town — come out and put your name on the hall register so we will know you are there: officially. 
*'3) Registration: As soon as you get your room, go to the Alumni Office in the Main Building — first floor — and 'sign in* and get your tag and name card. THIS IS ESSENTIAL FOR SMOKER 
"4) Program: At this time the following is definite. Other plans may be included — watch the j-esidence hall bulletin board for announce­ments. 
Friday: A. All day — registration at the Alumni Office and room assignments. Get your room and register as soon as possible. B. At 8:30 p.m.. Smoker in the lay faculty dining room on the second floor of the dining hall. Be prompt! Sl.OO at the door. 
Saturday: A. At 8 o'clock. Requiem Mas in the class residence hall for Father Wenninger. All prc-meds of '35 are requested to attend in a body and receive Holy Communion. All *35ers and wives invited. B. At 11 a.m. The 5-and-lO­year softhall game to be arranged through the local committee as above. The field between Walsh and Badin is the place. Tlie prize — wait till you see it! C. At 6 p.m. The Alumni Banquet in the dining halls. . Be sure 3'ou have your tag and name card for admittance. 
Sunday: A. At 10 o'clock. The class private Mass in the class residence hall for all '35ers and their wives. Celebrant will be Father Marr. Communion is urged to show Father Marr we haven't slipped in five years. 
**No\v one more word — and we think it a very important one. Some time ago we started a 'Bring the Wfe Back Campaign.' We have noted ^vith unusual interest the response to this drive. You have seen above that several have mentioned their wives, and one of the boys asked about a 'splash party* for the '35ers and their wives. We have tried to get a floor on the campus for our wives but it was impossible because of the needed space, and campus regulations. That means we shall have to leave our wives in town when it comes to accommodations. You may stay with them or take a room for yourself on campus. If you do the former — p!ease register in at the residence hall. Mrs. Scribe and your chairman . have a room at the Hoffmann where you will find us at night. There will be tourist rooms available at a reasonable cost. We would suggest that you write Jim Armstrong immediately for town ac-. commodations for Mr. and Mrs. or just the Mrs. as you wilt. Tell him how much you want to spend and whether you would prefer a hotel ot tourist home. Also state if you will remain w-ith your wife or take a room on campus. Please do this right away so no one will be left without accommodations at the last moment. 
"We want you to bring your wives back with , you. They may attend all functions f^xcept the Smoker and the Alumni Banquet. If all of you returning with your wives will drop us a penny post card we will be glad to arrange something for them in the way of a tea, cocktail party, or 'spelling bee.' But let us know ns soon as you read this — all of you bringing the wives back — so we can make plans. We sincerely regret that we cannot accommodate the girls on campus — that was our hope. But it couldn't be done. We would like to meet the wives of all the gang — and we'd like nil the gang to meet our wife. So let's make it a party. How about it? 
"Now hack to the cards for a moment — some 500 of them went out (on April 20). We have heard from only 102. men either by card, wire, or letter. That means around -100 still to respond. Mail us that card whether you plan to come or not because we want your address, your marital status, and your job for our records. If you have already thrown it away without returning it — send us a penny post card with the above dope on it ill addition to the info: 1) if you will be at the reunion; 2) if you will be at. the smoker on Friday night. 
"Come on now, gang — the rest of you 400 — fill out those cards and let's make this the biggest, brightest and best five-year reunion Notre Dame ever saw. Let's fill every room in our class hall. We want 200 at the smoker. Only 76 have regis­terde in for it so far. We have a long way to go. We must know immediately to make plans for the food. Don't delay. For all the swell responses so far —thanks a million, gang! To you slow birds 
— how about joining the parade I" 
AI Vittcr, of the I.ouisiana Department of Con­servation, Division of Kesearch and Statistics, Baton Rouge, between whiles is breaking into print. To a series of technical articles, recently published by the Bureau. JU contributes an illus­trated paper, "Phase Retrograde Phenomena of Hydrocarbon Mixtures in Condensate Production." As a researcher in the petroleum field Al promises to maintain the brilliant record he made in his high school and college years. 
Jack Edwards, with the National Cash Register Company, 244 S. Broadway, Yonkers, N. Y., re­cently requested a University catalogue for his nephew, now a student in All Hallows School in New York City. 
A recent checking up for the purposes of the mailing list revealed Bill Murtha's home address as 32 Kensington Road, Lynbrook, N. Y. Bill is a reporter on the N. Y. "Daily News." 
John Moran, 61 E. 95th St , Apt. 2. 1936 New York City. 
". . . the flowers that bloom in the spring. tra la. 
"No, don't get excited. Your secretary isn't ofE on another of his poetic columns. We just wanted to remind you officially that you can come out of your winter hibernation, rub your eyes, and promptly sit down,, and knock off that letter you were going to send us all winter. 
"The flowers may bloom, but we are, as far as this column is concerned, more interested in your letters that bloom . . . into our mailbox. Letters from you and you, and that sleepy-looking fellow hiding over there in the comer. 'Hey, wake up, buddy. The winter's over.' 
"Well, we can't complain this month. After, auitc a long, lean period, the threat of turning this column into a poetry corner brought a mdst gratifying response. We have had letters, cards, and telephone calls from some of our more retir­ing brethren who might have been hiding from 
J. Edgar Hoover and his G-boys, so effectively did they keep themselves under cover. Naturally, we're pretty gratified over the change. We cer­tainly hope to hear from a great many more of you retiring violets. So send your letter or card along; we're answering them all individually. 
"From the mail sack this month comes a card from Joe Waldron. It contained the news, which just missed the last column, that BtU Fay was to be married in April to Miss Salty Harding, in Memphis, Tenn. We assume that Bill, by now is a family man, and to him go our congratulations. 
Incidentally, we would appreciate a line from all you prospective grooms, so that your classmates and friends may learn of the happy occasions. And thanks for your card, Joe. We expect the newly married Mr. Fay to send along the details of the wedding, plus a bit of news about his activ­ities, very shortly. 
"Fred Gabriel came through with a newsy letter concerning the activities of the N.D. future medi­cos at Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. Fred says that our threat to foist some more poetry on the class was too much .. . so, in self defense he broke down and sent along a letter. Hah! Our system is working! 
"In covering the Philadelphia sector, Fred wrote: 'Five of us graduate from Jefferson this June, and on July 1 will take up the following internships. My brother, Lou, is going to the Robert Parker Memorial Hospital, in Sayre, Pa. ; Jim Quinn will be at St. Joe's in Lancaster. Pa.: Jack Shaffer (of Pittsburgh) will he at Mercy Hospital in that city; while Jack Brady and my­self make our debut at St. Vincent's Hospital in Erie. Pa.' 
" 'Hospital life w-ill not be entirely new to us, as we all served junior internships last summer. Jack Shaffer, my brother, and myself will receive commissions in the Medical R.O.T.C. at gradua­tion, and we will go to the R.O.T.C. camp at Carlisle Barracks, Pa., for a two-weeks* training period before going to our respective hospitals.' 
" 'When Notre Dame played Pennsylvania in basketball a few weeks back, all the N.D. alumni in school (both synthetic and genuine) were on hand. Saw Joe O'Neill and the boys at Penn Med, Doc Caspar, of our class, and Manning and Owens of T,-.' 
" 'Via one of our fraternity brothers (we all belong to the same one), who lives in St. Louis, and attended R,O.T.C. camp there last summer, we learned that Bill MacDonald, not only went in for a uniform but that he has become quite a sol­dier. Bill and Arky Kinman are seniors at Wash­inprton University School of Medicine in St. Louis.* 
** 'Frank Murray wrote ns that he planned to m-rke a trip to Philly soon, and we hope that he brings Ed DonoRhuc with him. Frank is at Cor­nell Medical School, and Ed is at Columbia. While home Easter I was looking over some back num­bers of the "Alumnus." and was glad to read about Mark Finncchiaro and Tony Giruzzl, the first word that I have heard about either of them since leaving school. I guess that all my old friends have a writing palsy or phobia.* [You hit the nail on the head that time, Fred!] 
" *In closing, Johnny, I would like to state that our home address is still Eldrcd, "Fa., where mail is regularly delivered twice a day, and where, incidentally, Ted Cumrow recently took up his duties as manager for the local electric company. I would like to hear from the boys at St. Louis, and Washington U., as well as any of the other schools.* 
"Thanks for your grand letter. Fred, and we certainly think you have done a good job in keep­ing us informed of the progress of the class med­icos. Fred can be reached either at Eldred, Pa., or at 3X3 S. 10th St. Philadelphia. So get busy, you future physicians, and make the mails hum. 
"Frank Joyce, who was dubbed 'the elusive Mr. Joyce,' after being reported in two localities last issue, wrote in to get himself straightened out geographically. He really was in the places where we listed him, but anyway, let Frank tell it: 
" 'I was working for the DuPont Company, Buffalo, N. Y., in the Pioneering Research Divi­sion when I met Frank Kcllner. Later I was transferred to the production group of the Rayon Staple plant at Buffalo. One week before I met Neil McCarthy I was notified of my transfer to the Nylon Division of the company. At present am a relief supervisor in the production depart­ment of the Nylon plant, Seaford, DeL 
" 'Prior to coming to Seaford, I married Miss Jean Schlaudecker, of Erie, Pa., on October 5. 1939. It w^as somewhat of a Notre Dame affair in that Crcorge Schlaudecker, '38. was best man, and John Norton, *36, was one of the ushers.* 
" 'In case you would . like to know more about the Nylon process and this sleepy little town of Seaford, I suggest you read the article **Sbeer Magic" by Frank D.- Morris in "CblHer's". for .A.pril 13, 1940. The only other N-D. man working do^vn here that I know of is Robert P. Leonard. '38. We form the N.D. Club of Seaford.' 
" 'Just todaj-I received a letter from John Norton telling me that he is to be married to Miss Dorothy Lucas, Rochester, some time this June. I noticed that the "Alumnus" recently carried the news of Ray Herrly*s engagement, so that makes two more of the slide-rule gang who will stray from the state of single blessedness.* 
" *! have had no news of Stine, Swords, or Raiser, in a long time. Art Banm is working for DuPont in ^Vllmington, and I understand that Mike O'Connor is with Union Carbide & Carbon in Charleston, W. Va. Bill Bayer, of Erie, Pa., who was married last May, is now a salesman for the Quaker State Oil Co. in Porkersburg. W. Va. That. John, is about all the news I have of the 1936 gang. Hope that this will discourage any urge you may have to burst forth into spring poetry.' 
"Well, Frank, a few more newsy letters similar to yours, and the old Secretary won't even read any poetry, much less write (?) it. Thanks very much for the letter, and if possible, we wilt stop in to see you should we find ourself near Seaford. Congratulations on your marriage, and the best of everything to you and the tittle woman. Frank may be reached at P.O. Box 233. Seaford, Del. 
"Our next letter came from Joe Kumler, who broke in with his first bit of news ^nce gradua­tion. To begin with, Joe went with the engi­neering department of General Motors upon grad­uation. Evidently working for G.af. tends to settle one, for Joe went and got married in July, 1936. Congratulation, to you and Mrs. Kumler. Joe remained with GJM. in Anderson, Ind., until last May, when he secured a better position in the engineering department of the R.BJSr. Manufacturing Co. in Logansport, Ind. He is presently designing for the firm which man­ufactures electrical equipment for various auto­mobile companies, including Ford. Packard, and Studebaker. 
"Joe is also in line for congratulations .. . a two-year-old youngster being the cause of all the cheers. Regarding the other '36ers. Joe writes that the only one whose whereabouts he knows is Byron 'Abie' Shore. Abe is in Chicago, doing accounting work, and by a strange coincidence was married the same day in July. 1936. as the Kumlers. In concluding Joe states that he is now living at 812 East Market St.. Logansport. Ind.. where he would like to have the mailman drop a few letters from some of his fellow engineers. notably George McNeil and Neil McCarthy. So get busy. boys, and drag out the paper and pen. And thanks to you. Joe; let's hear from you more often. 
"Charley Fitzsimons took time out to send along a letter he recently received from that demon of the sky-ways. Joe Snllivan. Joe, the good-will ambassador of United Air Lines, who is normally stationed at the Newark (NJ".) airport, will see a good deal of the country during his vacation which starts April 20. His itinerary will include Chicago, Notre Dame, and various other points east and west.. From the Sullivan letter comes news that Joe saw Ed Owens in Denver after the Notre Dame-Southern California game last fait. .Also that Loa Hansraan, *36, and Jack Lacey, '33, finished their training in the Army Air Corps at Kelly Field, Texas, last December. Lacey is now with a transport and supply group at Middle­tc^vn. Pa., while Lou Hansman has been assigned to Hawaii. 
"Charley Fitzsimons caught us up short for listing him as having trained in the Army Air Corps, and Jim Sidall as having done his bit with the Kaval Air Corps. According to Charley, it should have been just the reverse! Sorrj', Fiti. Further information from the Htzsimons* source is to the effect that on a recent trip to Buffalo, he saw Frank Kellner and family, Don Love, '35. and Val Klaibcr, '35, and their resi>eclive wives. 
"Charlej- is selling for the Shellane Corp., a branch of the Shell Oil Co. in Cassopolis, Mich. Busines is good, too, which ticWes Fitz, who -was married in the Log Chai>el on Dec 2 last, which fact was recorded in these pages. Thanks for the letter. Charley, and we hope business remains just as you want it. The Fitzsimons family is current­ly recei\-ing its mail at P.O. Box 100, Cassopolis. 
"LM> McFarlanc, who has been unreported for some time, sent in a post-card from Philadelphia. Mac wrote that he was visiting there while en-route from Kingston, K. C. The news of the sudden death of Coach Nicholson was a great shock to Mac. as it was to us all, particularly your Secretary, who heard Nick speak at a Com­munion Breakfast March 31, and saw him again the same evening in Madison Square Garden as Greg Rice beat Taisto Maki and set a world's record in the three-mile run. Thanks for the card, Leo, and we expect you to fulfill that prom­ise to write soon. 
"Joe Mansfield came through with another letter on that very distinctive stationery of station 
•\VJAR, Providence, B. L The former 'golden­voice of "WSBT* is now telling the good citizens of Rhode Island what breakfast foods to eat if thej' want to have enough energy to play the new hockey game Joe has invented. The game has been partially patented, and any of you boys with a few cool millions can get in on the ground floor by contacting Joe. Also from the Mansfield source comes the information that Tom Fennelly has had an addition to the family; that Hugh Dcvore, who is coaching at Providence College, has had a second son, and that Earl Brown, who has been coaching at Brown, has become the proud father of a little girl. 
"Joe winds up by sending his regards to all the boys, and inviting them to drop him a line or two. Thanks for your letter. Joe. 
"Our final letter of the month came via air­mail from £1 Centro, Colombia, South America. And a very welcome surprise it was, too, when we saw it came from Elias Hoyos, Elias reports that he has been with the Tropical Oil Co., as a chemist and production engineer, for the last three years. 
"On vacations in Manizales, the old home town, he sees Jamie Gomez, who is working with a con­struction firm as an architect; Alfonso Uribc, who is a chemist with the Colombian National Coffee Federation; and Nestor Gutierrez, who is part owner and director of a laboratory for the refin­ing of gold and the analyses of minerals. An­other NJ). graduate in Maniznles is Carlos Duque, a civil engineer, who graduated way back when Professor DeLandcro was a student. As you put it, Elias, that is quite an N.D. representation to find in such a far-off spot. 

"Other information is to the effect that Nestor Gutierrez is married, and the proud father of a little jrirl. Also that Godofredo Armenta, who was at N.D. during our last year, is finishing up his studies at the National University, presum­ably in Bogota. Elias writes that the place where he is working is situated in the valley of the Magdalena River, in more or less jungle country. Nevertheless, the town has all the comforts of a cit5-, including a nine-hole golf course, and a mixed population of Americans, Canadians, and Englishmen. Thanks for the letter, Elias, and we will answer it shortly. In the meantime, those of you who would like to learn a bit more about South America can reach Elias at the following address: Tropical Oil Co., EI Centro (Santander) Colombia, S. A. 
"And that winds up the corresjwndence for this month. Clippings from here and there indicate, however, that the boys of '36 are maldng news wherever they are. From the 'New York Times* ot April IT: 
** 'Frank Kopczak will continue as assistant under Coach Frank Loebs at Washington "Dniver­sity in St. Louis. Locbs recently succeeded Jimmy Conzelman.* 
"The 'New York Sun' of March 20 devoted nearly a half column to the protest demonstration staged by the pupils of the Clifford J. Scott High School. East Orange. N. J., when they learned . that the coaching contract of Bill Smith, '3G, would not be renewed. Under the New Jersey system, anyone holding an educational job for four years is entitled to tenure, giving him the job for as long as he wishes, subject to good be­havior. As Bill has been coaching for three years, a renewal of his contract would have meant tenure 
for him. The students liked Bill so well that they staged a noisy demonstration on the campus, and then a delegation marched on the City Hall and the mayor to make the feelings of the student body known. There were reports that the demon­strjition became so serious that the fire department had to be called out to assist in dispersing the pupils. Drop us a line. Bill. [Bill was Inter ap­pointed coach in Ashury Park. N. J., an. even better job. Butch Bruno, '37, will teach in the Asburj- Park school also—Eds,] 
"John Ryan, of Glee Club fame, continues to pop out at us from the pages of several metro­politan papers, in the Thomas* Scalp Ads. John is invariably pictured wearing a doctor*s operat­ing costume . . . and, of course, his hair is always slicked back. 
"From the 'Brooklyn Tablet' of March 23, 1940, comes a very interesting story about Brother Daniel Gleason, '36. Brother Gleason was formerly a member of 'New York's finest,* assigned to traffic duty near Fordham University, where he made many friends. He attended evening school and Fordham University in the evening, which is no mean task after having put in a. strenuous day pounding a beat. After four years in evening school, and two years at Fordham, where he led his class in ontology*, he entered the seminary at Notre Dame. Dan will, be ordained at Notre Dame in June, and will celebrate his first Solemn Mass in St. Patrick's Cathedral, June 30, at 8 o'clock. This is the first time in the history of the New York police department that a member of the force has become a priest. According to 
reports, about 5,000 policemen will attend the first Mass. Congratulations, D:in, and as the 'Tablet' comments, 'This is a success story of the best t>-pe.* 
"Seen around N. Y. Town: Bumped into Jack Skelb', when, in company with Jim McDcntt. we were leaving Madison Square Garden and the N.YJLC. track meet after seeing Grej: Bice crack the world's two-mile mark. .Jack reported that he is still busy keeping the accouifting affairs of Republic Aviation Co., out on Long Island, iu good shape. Bumped into Charley CIsTkc, but as we were both in a hurr>*, we forgot to make a note of what he is doing to keep the wolf from the door. Also met Jack Britton, who is an in­surance investigator with Liberj- Mutual Co.. Rockefeller Center. 

"At the Rockne Communion Breakfast on March 31, we learned that congratulations are in order for Jim Reilly, who slipped that engagement ring on Marie Nirrengarten's finger last Christmas. No date has been set for the wedding. Also at the breakfast, we saw Gene Lounsbcrty* who is " with Fbstal Telegraph, in the branch opposite City Hall; Ed Hammer, who joined us for the day from Dunwoodie Seminar3', where he is studying for the priesthood: Joe Schmidt, Howie Cusack, 
and one or tw*o others. 
"Joe Schmidt's dad died une:ci>ectedly on April 2, while the father of Jordan Hargrove, *35, passed away on April 1. To both these boys the class extends its sympathies at their bereavement. 
"At the N. Y. Club's monthly meeting in the Centre Club, April 2. we saw Tom Dunn, Bill Walsh, Joe Donnino, Al Carey, -who had been out of town for some time previously on an account­ing assignment for his firm, and several others. 
"Biff Flannerj- telephoned us recently to stale that the pressure of working in a law office In the da>timc, and going to St. John's Law School at night would prevent him from attending the Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet in the Hotel Pennsylvania. At the last mentioned affair we saw, among others, Frank Shapiro, the demon salesman for Ferrodo Asbestos, who does a bit of traveling for his firm; Bill Prange, who is traffic manager for the Bronx office of the Annheuser-Busch Brewing Co.; Andy Hufnagel, who is trying his hand at selling in and around Brooklyn; and Jim Kirby, who at this writing, is down in North 
Carolina, on an accounting assignment for Lybrand, Ross Bros., and Montgomerj*. (Honest Injun: that's all one firm). 
"And this about winds up the doings for this issue. Ae we remarked way up at the start of this column, your response to our pleas for a few letters was most gratifying. To those who wrote in, thanks again; to those who should have, but didn't, we say to get out the pen and ink and get busy today. As a last word, we would appreciate it if those who hope to get out to Commencement this June would write in and let us know before­hand, so that the others attending will know who to look for when they hit South Bend." 
George Moriarty, formerly teacher, athletic di­rector and coach in Aquinas High School, La Crosse, Wis., has transferred his activities to Massachusetts, where he will be a teacher of histor>- and football coach in Marblehead High School. Johnny Michuta, now in the West Bend, Wis., high school, will take over George's duties next fall in La Crosse. 
 Foley, 1S036 Schoenhoer Road, 
Detroit. BUdUKsn. 
1937 Paul 
From Paul Foley: "Another issue ready to be ground through the , press — and not enough copy here to wad a shotgun. 
"From Columbus, Ohio, on crisp bank stationer^' of the Ohio National Bank of Columbus, comes ~ word from Jerry Besanccney, who resides in New­ark, Ohio, hut commutes to Columbus to w*ork for the bank. He does not report on his capacity except to say, 'The presidency is not mine as yet.* _ He has been on the job since about a week after graduation so the WPA is not his as yet either. 
"Jerry reports that in spite of driving a car with the license 'ND-37,' he is about to be mar-^ ried. On June 1 he will walk the long mile with Miss Betty Johnston of Columbus. 
"From the same source comes word of another ex. '37er, dapper Franklin Fox — one of Dr. Cooney's boy5_ Frank, says Jerrj-, is connected with the Columbus 'Dispatch.* He doesn't describe the connection, so for all we know Frank may be hanging from the fiag pole. Chances are, though, that he is burning up the advertisioK department. He was married some time aRO to Miss Charlotte Epplcr. a South Bend girl. Fox will be remem­bered as one of those lads who knew South Bend cirls. 

"Edward Fischer, another of Dr. Cooney's pro­teges, centers in with a di^^patch from St. Joseph's College. Rensselaer, Ind. Heading the dispatch are the words: Edward Fischer, director of news bureau. Which more or less explains Ed's method of catching the woirs snout in the door. 
"In addition to his duties as press agent Ed is the editor of 'Contact,' the ofTicial alumni publica­tion of St. Joseph's. Sample copies sent with the letter prove it to be a very sprightly, highly interesting publication •— in short a beautiful job. 
"Ed is married, or as he puts it, 'Has been under new management* for a little over a year. "In addition to his other chores Ed also teaches 35 cotlegiates the intricacies of Journalism. 
"Others reported upon briefly in the Fischer screed are Glcason. who is busy coaching the ath­letes of Catholic Central at Hammond, Ind. Chick Lcvicki, who is also coaching a Catholic Central, but this one located at Fort Wayne. Chick is re­ported very successful in his efforts to date. So much so that his team won the National Catholic Basketball Tournament in Chicago for the second straight year. Congratulations to the big boy and his little boys! 
"We have further word on Joe O'Neil, now re­siding at the Brooklyn-Central Y.M.C.A. -while bat­ting the ball for an insurance firm. Joe is engaged, of course, but still prowling Greenwich Village and the German-American A.C. on the slightest provocation — whenever two Irishmen can together — and that's slight enough provo­cation. 
"Bucko Byrne, whom we shall indeed write very, very shortly, is completely domesticated on Old Guelph Road, Bryn Mawr, P^. — picture of Byrne, the Mrs., a purring cat and a roll of knitting wool before the blazing log. Great stuff! 
"At this point we will out-Winchell Walter and inform you that Mr. John Austin Gillespie will announce his engagement in early June — along about the time the Westfield and Tri-County Pen­nansahassack Valley Softball Team starts its sea­son. From that point on the scribe of Westfield will be on his own. 
"Several of the *S7 vintage w-erp on hand in Detroit's Masonic Temple, April 15, for the point-of-origin participation in Universal Notre Dame Night. Among them ^%-ere: Hank Ruen, seldom seen even in these ports, but blessed with a fam­ily and pleasant prospects; James Gorman (Mayor) Hastings, grown about ;!0-odd pounds since the Lyons Hall days, and prospering other­wise; John ULlman, who is grinding along at a steady clip and becoming more and more eligible every day; Bob Hart, now a full-fledged grocery tycoon with grave responsibilities and apparently willing to accept them — we mean really! 
"The U.N.D. Night was a colossal success as usual — for those of you who heard only the 30 minute broadcast, we might say the rest of the program was equally gtHxl, with Elmer Laydcn getting in several good licks. As for instance, telling of the Southern Cal game when one of our boys saw the Trojans march onto the field, he eyed their tremendous size and asked Elmer: 'What shall we do — play 'em or feed 'em pea­nuts?' Elmer reports they 'fed 'em peanuts* for the first half. 
"We are going to resort to one of our earlier dodges, in a frantic effort to get some mail into this sub-station. We are going to write down a few names, blindfolded and at random, from whom we expect some sort of .vord within the next three weeks. ^\s for instance: Juo Mcintosh, Jerry Clacys. Bill Tunney, Wish Egan, Joe DrolU. Paul Biagoni, Art Hoffman, Paul Shecdy — and whoever else may have the yen." 
The town turned itself loose for a celebration when, for the second consecutive year. Chick Levicki's Central Catholic team brought the Na­tional Catholic Basketball championship Lack to Fort Waj'ne. Students in public high schools and parochial high schools greeted the team at the station when it returned from Chicago and formed a parade through the streets. Mai Elward. '16, head coach at Purdue, was the chief speaker at the banquet honoring the team a few days later. 
Milton Bock, a victim of the South Bend "News-Times" demi.^o, has turncil his journalistic talents to advertising insurance with a firm on Enst Jefferson in South Bend if our information, has­tily noted one rainy day, is accurate. Please check in. Mr. Bock. 
10Ofi Harold A. WllUams. 216 East Lake I TOO Avenae. Baltimore. Maryland. 
"Last month I requested letters from Bud CuIIcn, Bill Robinson, Tom Healj', Charlie Calla­han, Bob Reilly. and Paul Hughes. Healy and Callahan responded with fine letters, so they de­ser\e the privilege of baring their souls at the beginning of this column. Mr. Healy: 
" 'Finally sitting down to write this letter is as surprising to me as it will no doubt be to you. Long-intended, the clincher was put on by your cordial invitation in the last "Alumnus." . . . For myself a running story of activities since graduation might be: Hung around Scranton. Pa. (the old home town) idle for a couple of months: came down to New York: tried selling with meager success; put out an advertisement and tutored lads of high school age in such alien subjects as math and chemistrj-; worked . as a sandhog in the construction of a new subway. I'll stop here to let j-ou know how I made out at that as you're probably wondering how anyone my size could be mistaken for the general con­ception of a sandhog. That word, incidentally. is applied to underground and under-river labor­ers who work under air pressure. I hung on until union activities stopped work on the project. Cal­louses as thick as a good steak grew on ms* hands, a permanent crick in the back developed and tem­porally deafness resulted but the pay was com­pensatory for the time the job lasted. After that T landed a berth as reporter for a Long Island paper. Then fate, in the form of an economical publisher, stepped in and with other recently hired employees. I was sloughed off the payroll. Since then I've been at loose ends, still looking for newspaper work with a couple of dim prospects in view,' 
"'To get to others of the class: Joe Callahan is now with National Distillers in New York in the purchasing department. He spent a year at Fort Hamilton as a second lieutenant and left one of the finest records ever established by a reser\-e officer taken in for a year's regular duty at that Fort. A special letter to Joe from the commanding colonel sets up our founder of the Military Club at N.D. as representing the finest example of "officer and gentleman." My apologies to Joe for revealing some things he would prefer to remain confidential, but his modesty cannot be allowed to become extreme.* 
" 'Hank Leader is still with the City News Association and is doing everything from covering a district to rewrite. He is also taking a couple oC history courses at Fordham. We manage to get together frequently. In New York is Ken Ackroyd, ex. *38, who was transferred here from the Washington branch of the Multograph-Multi-Hth Corp. Until recently he was living in the same apartment house with Phil Gallctta. who received his M.A. in Phy. Ed. from Columbia in January. He's now looking for a coaching and teaching job in.the city.* 
" 'Jerry Battle, ex. '38, arrived in town April 6 with his bride of that day on his arm. .His "wife (nee Elinor Bradley) is a home economics grad of Marywood College, Scranton, Pa., so it looks as though Jerry combined solid judgment with good taste in his choice of a partner. He is worktne for the Pennsylvania Welfare Association.* 
" 'With Hank Leader and Bill Daniels (who has had a flock of jobs) I took a federal exam re­cently for a publicity job in Washington. Our comiKtition consisted of present seniors and grad­uates of the city college., including Columbia. The only N.D. boys in the exam room, we are waiting results to form a basis of comparison on the relative merits of the schools. I can hear the yell go up — Who ever said we were representa­tive of the calibre of N.D. men? Tut, tut, fellows.* 
** 'Bill Margnet is doling cut information at the "New-3." I haven't seen him, but Daniels reports that he's in solid. With that the present informa­tion runs dry. . . .* 
"Thanks. Tommy, old boy, that was a dandy letter. Tommy, who conducted the Juggler Vein back In the rosy days of '33. can be reached at 103 Vermilyea Avenue, New York, N. Y. 
"And now for Charlie Callahan who is not — as rumored — working on the coming presidential election. Says (HiarHe: 'Last year I didn't see any of the first four issues of the "Alumnus" until after Christmas when they arrived in a bunch at my Arizone hideout. After reading them. I decided that I had been writing too much . . . and would let Don Hickej- carr>- on alone. However, believe me. when I say that I meant only to wait several months, and not a year and a half. . . . For some time I've been in the employ of Christy Wali-h. Since he accepted the terms of the Fair last week to return for the coming season, he re-assumes the title of Director of Sports and I, by-gum, the title of Director of Sports Publicity . . . a press agent, in other words, with the -working hours my own. I'll probably have a couple of non-athletic accounts in addition. If you come up to see the affair, look me up in the Academy of Sport,' 
" 'Coming East a year ago at this time, I stopped at Scotty Reardon's .. . spent 12 hours in the metropolis of Sioux Falls . . . slept nine . . . am trying to hit a few random notes that, though old, have not been mentioned. Pete Mc-Carron, Marty Cosick, Joe O'Boyle. George Keen­an. Boats McCarthy and John Schaltz were the '38ers at the Fairs .. . on the way to the Southern Cal game (driving with Tarz Ross). I stopped off in Sayre to see Joe .. . so I guess I was one of the last of the class to see him . . . I saw Pete at the Penn the night of the 
N.Y.U. basketball game and he was working at something in his native anthracite district . . 1 Boots continued on with Ford after the Fair closed . . . I'm not sure what the rest are doing.' 
" 'Saw Jack Firth at one of Rice's record-breaking Garden appearances . . . Jerry Schaefer at the N.Y.U. game .. . Ed Bartnett occasionally up at the "Hmes" . . . same one Bill ftlargnet at the "Daily News" . . . Hook Kerwin in Times Square . . . Frank Bright in Grand Central (twice). . . .* 
"'Backy O'Connor, one of the '33 tracksters, still runs as a member of the New York A.C. He ran mostly In relay events during the winter, although he did compete and get a third in the 300 at the Seton Hall games in Jersey. He lives across the street. Oh. yes. he is getting his M.A. at Columbia in June. Gene Dolan, still a banker,. I believe, resides 10 blocks to the north. Gcorce SchUadecker was another one of the neighborhood boys until a better engineering job pulled him out of town. Bill Arnold is close by every day, too, being a second year law man at Columbia^ but I seldom see him. Another never contacted (well, seldom) lawyer is Costello. who is at Fordham. I went home over the Easter holiday* and saw 
T. Mulligan. L. Welch, C Reynolds, D. Jlay and A- Mnlhcm. of "de Hah-\'uds" . . . Ted Frascr, with Home Life or maybe just Home Insurance Co., was transferred to the Dallas office some time back . . . that's all. . . .* 
"Charlie's address, which was requested in the past issue, is 412 "\V. 115th Street, New York (Hty. Thanks,, Charlie, for the grand letter. 1*11 be up to see you when the Fair opens. . . . 
"The Kew York boys must have had time on their hands during the past few weeks for another one of the metropolitan gang — one Gene Vaslett, who was connected in some way with an N.D. publication — pounds out this lengthy and inter­esting letter: 
" 'I've been sitting here arguing with my con­science whether to write you or do some home­work. The baser side has triumphed, and here I am pecking away at a very much neglected type­writer. Frankly, I can't remember the last time I wrote you, but with this writing I shall try to rectify all that has gone before. That last sounds dramatic, doesn't it? It reeks, faintly, of a col­umn I ha\*e read somewhere in the dear dead past. Sorry, I can't recall the name of it, nor the writer. Or maybe you don't want to be reminded of that. ... " 
" 'Let me see, oh yes, my old roommate, Frank Prusha, w*ent and got hitched, and according to the last letter I received from him the war, the economic situation, the New Deal, tarces, etc.. don't amount to a hill of beans, — it's a rosy, rosj- world to the long guy. May it always be one for him, say I to that. Particulars about the wedding I give to you second hand, as I unfor­tunately couldn't make it. Owen Kane was best man and, from Frank's letter, Owen enjoyed the doings better than the groom. I understand he cut a swath a half mile wide through Chicago immediately after the ceremonies, probably some­thing like the way he used to "swath" down the second' floor of "Walsh at a quarter after twelve on a Saturday night.' 
" 'As to the boys here in the East I can only account for two or three at present. Jack Firth has been regularly rooting Greg Rice home a win­ner at the Garden these past Saturday nights. I think that Jack has landed himself a new job with the "Journal-American" but I can't confirm that at this ^^-riting. Tommy Shiels is still hold­ing forth at New Rochelle and any place where a swing band can be found. Went up there a few week-ends ago and very blearily saw the sun come up with a bunch of New Rochelle hep cats. Lots of fun, though. Tom, too, is with the "Journal-American." Boy, what Hearst isn't doing to a lot of fine young Americans.' 
" 'I think 1 saw the elusive wiU^'-the-wisp, one Charles Callahan, at the Garden one Saturday night, but I'm afraid I can't be quoted on that. You may get a letter from Zerbst again with news that Charlie is Ghandi's newest disciple, and then wouldn't I look silly. It is reported (that's the only phrase I can use and be safe) that Chuck is with the "Catholic "World" in some sort of editorial post,* [Secretary's note: Refer to Charlie's for correct and latest information.] 
" 'The rest of the boys, I'm sorry to say. I haven't seen. School has prevented me from at­tending any of the local alumni meetings, so I'm In the dark as to what is going on. Myself, oh yeah, I almost forgot. I have thrown the insur­ance bu^ness up for grabs and for good, and am now in the market research and advertising divi­sion of National Aniline & Chemical Inc. The job is only a month old, but from where I sit it looks pretty good. Nice company. They're part of Allied Chemical. Nice work, nice secretaries. • Yes. I enjoy it very much. School still grinds on, and in a few more years, providing I can live w^ithout home cooked suppers, I may get my Master's degree. Bill Blathis is also studying at N.Y.TJ. He's after the same thing I am. Beyond that I don't believe an NJ). man is to be found around the place. . . .' 

"And so we'll leave Gene to his books while we search for a little more news in this untidy desk. Thanks, Gene, for taking the time to write. Let's hear from you again, soon. 
"Bill Dooley, the managing editor of this sheet, in a recent letter passes along the information that his brother-in-law, Charlie Teriy, is working for the Boss Manufacturing Co. (work gloves) in Peoria, III., is married, and has a son. Pat. Charlie lives at 209 Ellis Avenue, Peoria. Con­gratulations, Charlie, on the fine son and the fine name. 
"Bill also mentions that Dick Stueve, of l^ilsa, Okla.. was killed in an automobile accident about April G. I have no details. 
"In the April 12 issue of the 'Scholastic. I-no­ticed the following: 'Robert D. Fembacfa, who was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938 and is to graduate from the Cornell Law School in June, 1941, has been chosen editor-in-chief of the "Cor­nell Law Quarterly," which is the nationally known legal periodical published by the CJomell Law School. Members of the Board of the Cor­nell Law Quarterly are chosen on the basis of scholarship. Fernbach placed first in mid-semester examinations.' On page 7 of the same periodical notice was made that Edward Francis Bright had the highest average in the N.D. Law School with an average of 93.27 percent. Nice work, boys. 
"Several weeks ago when Phil "Baj'cr passed through town he telephoned me and gave me sev­eral items. He said that Charlie 'Bud' Kolp, who was in the real estate business for a time, is now in the en^neering department of the Canton Drop Forge Co.. but expects to get back in the family real estate business shortly. Charlie Mor­row is now with the company that makes the Louisville slugger. He's in the sales department. Phil. I believe he said, was working for the Gas & Electric Co. in Erie. I also have a note that Charlie Kolp was married (or is to be married) in June to Miss Gerrj- Zink, of Canton, formerly of St. Mary's. I'll have to check that. 
"I had another nice letter from John Clcar>'. He has no N.D. news to pass along other than the fact that Art Sclna, N.D. Law student, visited in Taunton during the Easter vacation and is the same as ever. Art, says Jack, intends to make another trip East before returning to the moun­tains of Arizona to practice law. 
"Tiger McGrath, who objects to having his name and his exploits mentioned in this column, writes to say that he saw Brother Bertrand (Bill Mahoncy) at the Monastic House of Studies, Hiver Forest. III., while he was home -for the Easter vacation. Bill, he reports, is doing and looking fine. 
"And now about N.D. Night. As far as I know there was no ofHcial celebration in Baltimore. Ray Dcely, *36, of the Washington Club, was kind enough to write me a letter inviting the Balti­more boys and myself over for their celebration, 
•but it was impossible for any of us to make it. I hope by next year that the Baltimore contingent will be sufficiently organized to hold some sort of a meeting. 
"I couldn't make the Washington celebration because of my new job. On March • 30, I finally landed a job as a reporter with the Baltimore "Morning Sun.*' working from 3 P.M. until mid­night. 
"That's about all except I would like to hear from a great number of you fellows so we can close out the year with plenty of news in the June "Alumnus." I'd like to get some sort of communication from that silent red-headed. Bill Robinson." 
John Schwartzel, '38, ts now with the Adier Manufacturing Company, Louis\'ilIe, doing finance and social security work, through the generous co-operation of Joe Donaldson, '23, sales manager of Adlcr, who is chairman of the Placement Com­mittee of the Greater Louisville N.D. Club. 
Frank Crosiar, late of Utica. III., has taken his wife and child to Quincy, 111., where he is an announcer for WTAD. Frank, in his two years at N.D., had conaderable experience with the campus radio studios and was associated also with ^\'FAM-WSBT in the Bend. 
Yinceat DeConner, 251 N. 15th St.. 1939 Emnsu City. Kantai. 
From Vincc DcCourscy: 
"Information this month is very meagre; we have received the grand total of two (2) letters, one (1) post card, and one (1) phone call — and when bigger columns are built I'm sure you'll agree that these won't build them. 
"Quite a bit of stray information has been floating around about some of the boys, and I suppose that it would be well to dispose of that material first, before wading in — chin up and left too far down — asking for more letters. In the first place, the Kansas City Club had its usual Universal Notre Dame Night, a pretty grand af­fair, attended by Kansas City's Bishop O'Hara and quite a few of the local dignitaries. Quite notice­able was one tall, dark chap w*hom we had last seen waving a baton and complaining about the weight of his shako (well, how would YOU spell it) — Lou Alaman, who had come out of the no­where that very day to try his wings as a demon business-getter for Hall Stationery Co. — if you send Christmas cards, you help out this outfit. 
"Reclining on the couch one evening, lollipop 
in one hand and 'Familiar Quotations' in the 
other, we were jerked out of a calm complacency 
when the phone rang and a voice on the other 
end said, 'Hello, this is Joe Dann.* Yes, sir, the 
old pride of Rocky Ford, (^lo., himself had just 
blown into .town with a load of cattle, gotten rid 
of them, and was at the moment on his way out 
of town. We were very sorry that no contact 
was made, but better luck next time. The conver­
sation over the phone certainly wasn't very satis­
factory for Joe. He wanted to know where Andy 
Gannon w*as and what he was doing — and we 
didn't know. If Andy will write, it will be a 
pleasure to act as go-between. Joe says also that 
Fred Honncrkamp is working for his father's , lumber company in Brooklyn. 
"Carl J. Rausdi, from 3651 Fairway Blvd., Ixis ' Angeles, wrote in for one of the two honorable mentions this month. Chick says that the Facific Coast is not too well reported and so took it upon himself to see that something was done about it 
— a worthy thought and one that should be occur­ring to quite a few people in quite a few other sections of the country. 
"After apologizing for not knowing much about ^ anybody, (Thick went on with this: 'Bob Huether, the erstwhile Sharon pride, is still keeping the Lockheed plant in the front ranks of the corpora­tions of that industry, and his considerable over­time has cut into our periodic get-togethers. Red Rlorgan draws his salao' from the same place and, according to grapevine, is working as hard as Huether.' 
"In H column several months back we had printed a letter from Tom Foy, and apparently read between the lines on some of it for, says Chick: 'I wish to correct a wrong impression created by that letter, undoubtedly through no fault of Tom's (Ye sec. hangs his bloody head]. He stated that Sweeney Tuck tried out for the local pro football squad, the Los Angeles Bulldogs, but didn't make the grade. Sweeney made that ^rade well enough and was even offered a con­tract with the outfit. However, he had a chance to draw a nice stipend from the local Bureau of Power & Light, so he took the Bureau in prefer­ence to having his brains beaten out. The job lasted a while, petered out, and then took up again. At this writing Tuck is scaling towers at the B of PL camp in Boulder City, Nev., calculat­ing "Sag" in power wires from Boulder Dam.' 
("By the way. one of the boys from Father Flanagan's Home dropped in a few weeks back and said that on his trip to the coast, selling magazines, he had quite a long talk with Tuck and found him quite enthusiastic about a chance to return to the old stamping grounds.—See's note.) 
"But more from Chick: Those of the '39 class who knew Mike Shannon will be glad to hear that he is progressing far more than satisfactory. His doctors are amazed at his recuperative powers. He seems to have the TB backed against the wall and begging for mercy. And if you don't believe he's practically, cavorting again, he has, while flat on his back ^vith TB, started his own used car business, and hung up a record of nine cars sold in February.' 
" 'As for myself, that can be made brief. I worked for Columbia Pictures. Inc.. for a month after graduation. Then came the war and re­duced foreign markets for films. I couldn't con­vince the boys there that my presence at the studio would elevate the quality of their output. They hurt my feeling by firing me. Then a period of unemployment and finally about the first part of October I secured the position of sales repre­sentative for Telautograph Corp. in Los Angeles. So I fall into step with the four million other lUilesmen and sally forth each day to inflict my presence upon the sly and wary business men of our fair metropolis. I like the looks of the whole 4et-up and hope I may remain with the company indefinitely.' 
"Chick closed with a few words about people who didn't vn-ite him, wanted to know why, and thought that if they saw it in print it might stir their delinquent consciences. Just as a friendly word to my friend from Los Angeles, it won't — I know. Nevertheless, since Chick promised to re­member me in his will if only we printed that part, we will repeat that if those who owe him letters will only sit down for a few minutes and knock off a page or two he will be deeply grateful. If those we've asked would, half of them, re­.•ipiind. we'd be hystericjil­
"In his last letter Joe Harrington had invited us to visit him at hts summer home beneath a palm tree on the Carribenn Sea, around Panama; we had almost decided to take him up on that this summer until along came a card from "Winne­bago, Minn., saying that Joe Harrington was now selling hybrid.corn to the farmers in that state, and promising more details when he was finally settled. Although disappointed, we are awaiting Joe's letter with a great deal of interest. 
"The third and final bit of news of the month came from someone, not a student, whom most of us knew in one way or another. Art Gartland. In a verj- interesting letter Art mentioned, among other things that Joe Kinnealey is doing well selling meats at Thomas F. Kinnealey & Co., and that Bill Sharp is in Boston working for the Agar Mfg. Co., makers of boxes. 
"Art was fortunate enough to be in attendance at the consecration of Father O'Hara, and the old nostjilgia has claimed him — he wants to be back. Reports that John Broderick is still among the more restless souls un the campus, and that Ed Potter is in Toledo, an instructor at the Municipal University of Toledo. Art wound up his letter with a dissertation on the insurance business and a desire to have his greetings passed along to everj- member of the class. 
"And. believe it or not, that is the extent of this month's column. VfB WANT MORE LET­TERS. And because those mentioned for the honor of writing last month failed to do so. we again repeat the threat of reporting them in Oslo, selling ofTicial • government secrets to the wicked Nazi. Really, we would like to be hearing from Frank Cunningham. Jim Walsh, Charlie Nelson. John Kohn, Tom Kalman, Hugh Garvcy, Ray Schlcck, Paul AlcArdlc, and Tom King. How about each of them taking a few minutes out and dropping us a line?" 
Martin Uusung, from Alamosa, recently notified Dean Konop that he had passed the Colorado bar, —• and with flying colors. 
From 354 N. Cypress. Burbank, Calif., Bob Hucthcr sent, with his generous contribution to the Alumni Association, the happy word that he is progressing beautifully with Lockheed Air­craft (or did Brother Jack, '22, say that when he was here inter\*iewing seniors recently for G.E.7) and likes bis work. Continues Bob, "I am living in an apartment here with three other engineers from Lockheed, one of whom is Don Morgan, of the *39 class. Bill Stevens, who spent his first two years at N.D.in *3G and '37, is also living with us. Proving that engineers are versatile as well as 'crazy' (quoting certain Commerce and 
A.B. men of *39), we do our own cooking and apparently thrive on it." 
The Cornell Law School is happy about the fact that the two *39 men, Paul Donovan and Phil DcCrocco, are numbered among its present stu­dents. 
Pete Sandrock kindly sent hts financial aid, along with the dope that he is working for the Pacific Northwest Forest Experiment Station, 412 
U. S. Court House, Portland, Ore. Pete says that Ed O'Mcara is now managing editor of the "Mc-Minville Register" of McMinville, Ore. 
U.N. D. NIGHT 
(Coticitiued from Pitge ::13) 

of Our Lady. My fellow-members of the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, you must know that I shall always treasure this replica of the Golden Dome which, as Ed Bailey has said, is symbolic of all that a Notre Dame man needs for strength and courage. 
"Father Burke, I cannot express in words my deep appreciation of the un­usual honor and recognition you have brought to me from my .-ilma Mater. 
"Just to be a son of Notre Dame is a priceless possession. 
"To thousands of Notre Dame men throughout the world my best wishes for a glorious and successful meeting of hearts tonight." 
In Chicago, in St. Louis, in Denver, in Seattle, in Los Angeles, in New York and New Jersey, in Cleveland, in Kansas City, on the campus itself, and in the four comers of -Ajnerica and the world, it was a Night of observances which found a new strength and a new depth. 
1937 LEGAL DIREaORy 
(Additions and Changes) 
CONNECTICUT 

Bridgeport BRENNAN. Daniel E.. Jr, A.B.. -34 Brennan fit Brennan Meigs Building 
ILLINOIS 

Chicago KIPLE. John E.. A.B.. -34 189 \V. Madison St.. Suite 1110 
POJMAN. Henry F_ A.B.. 37. LL.B.. -38 2506 W. 45lli Street 
Dixon BALES. James E, Ph.B.Coni_37..LL.B_-38 915 W. Second St. 
INDIANA 

South Bend 
FRANK. Maurice N.. LL.B_ "39 Suite 410. Lafayette BIdg.. 115 S. Lafayette St.. and 830 24th St. 
LECHNER. John J.. A.B.. -37. LL3, 38 416 J. M. S. Building 
PREKOWITZ. Theodore E_ A.B.. 36. LL.B.. 39 416 J. M. S. Building 
IOWA 

Carroll 
MEYERS. Joseph J.. LL.B, 04 Reynolds. Meyers & Tan Creti 
NEW JERSEY 

Carteret 
HARRINGTON. Benedict W.. A.B.. 32 545 Roosevelt Ave. 
NEW MEXICO 

Roilnell 
JENNINGS. James T.. .A.B_ 35 424 White Bldg. 
NEW YORK Nea York Cilj JORDAN. John A.. B.C.S„ 32 2180 Tieboul Avenue 
OHIO 

Bucyrus 
SCANLON. Leo J.. LL.B.. 30 
Prosecuting Attorney 
Crawford County 
Carroll Building 
TEXAS 

Houston MURRIN. George P.. LL.B.. -28 Shell Bldg. 
WISCONSIN 

Racine ALBERT, Robert C. A.B.. 36. LL.B, 37 402 Badger Building 
23rd ANNUAL: 

SUMMER SESSION 
of 

The UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME 
June 18—July 31,1940 
Liturgical Music NOTRE DAME, INDIANA, U.S.A. 
Cfiirx-s in i:rft;nri;iii <."h:iii: will U- «ff.-r.-d as follows uiul<-r Ih*- (iir<-clion of I:»'V. Jamfs 11. V<fuii;r. t'.F.C.' 
I. (;r(>;r<iri:iii Chiiiit 1: Thr l.i-;;iiiiiiiiK Ili.-..ry 
ALUMNI 
and i>ra(liff of plain 
.•ham. Tlu- rhylhiu of 

of plaijir-oitf.- a'-'-or«hiiir -have many calls for information concerning 
to tin- priiii-ipl'-s o; 
the summer school . . .
.<otcstin-s. i;r«-f;oiiaii no­
laiion. Inti'Oiliiflioi) lo 

Ih.' .M<..l.-.<. Sp.iial :il--are interested in the development of this pro­
I.-1111011 will I't- ^'ivi'n 

nt l>oth U-aiiiin;; iJi. jrram of the University .. . 
'•liaiil ami i.achiii;; ii. 

II. ('iiiKltifiiiiu' t: -could avail themselves of opportunity for <'liir4iiioiny in ili'-oiy academic or professional or cultural advance­
and praciic. lit Uiis 

ment at low cost in ideal environment . . .
I ours., prarii.al appli­••aiioii is ina<l< of what ilii- siud.-iit l<aiii> in 

-have friends, or relatives, who might make up work or secure added electives in the sum­
• lifCitrian I'haiil I. 
III. I/iliiixitiil Siiiiriiif:: 
mer session . . .
Th.- princ-ipl.-s of |,i­uir;;i<ai .'^itiyin^r. Tin­foitiialion and irainiti;: of .iM.ii.-.. I'ra'iii,. of Mass.'.«. V. >p,T>. and Mo:..IS. 
• Kallit-r ^••im;; u-a^ tor-

COURSES OFFERED IN THE SUMMER OF 1940
m.-rly dir.-.-ior of the M..r­
*-.\n St-miiiary «'lioir and has 
n-i't-nil.v f.-iurnt-d from ih.­

Arts and Letters: Science: 
Pius X S.-lio.-l of I.i.iurci.al Politics Engineering: Musi.. 
Religion Sociologj-Biolog}-Civil Engineering* 
Philosojihy Education Chemistry Electrical Engineering* English .•\it' Physics Jlechanical Engineering Classics Music Mathematics Mining Engineering* 
Modern Language Speech" Commerce: Engineering Di-iwing* History Journalism" -•iccounting'^ Metallurgy* 
Economics Libniiy Science* Law 
• In thf sumiiH-r ^«Si;ion no ;;r:ulu:ile foiirSfS an- olfiTt.'d in tht n.-Iri>- niarki-it liy :t>t.'li>-k. 
FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES 
For the student entering the University for the fii"st time there is a matriculation fee of ten dollars. The tuition fee for the six weeks' summer session is thirty dollars, and a library fee of two dollars is required of each student. Certain courses in science and engineering involve lab­oi-atory fees, and there is a special tuition for couj-ses in painting and music, as noted in the Bulletin for the summer session. A private room may be had on the campus for a nominal rental. The charge for board in the common dining hall is ten dollars the week. Students are free to patronize the cafeteria, paying for what they order. — The Bulletin for the summer session may be had, on request, from the Registrar of the University, at jiddress, Notre Dame, Indiana. 







