The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
The Class of 1966 is among us. 
It would be easy—combining age, disposition, and the history of the 

'^ (B J> 
last four years—to view with alarm' 
But the same ingredients make it equally easy to point with pride Many of this Class are entering 
the top graduate schools in the country, where acceptance is highly 
yp o 
competitive. Many have been 
 <D O sought by corporations whose selec­tions are made on a most unemotional basis of business investment. It is also true that many hove left Notre Dame with the label of rebel. Even this is not unqualified liability. God was the first to concede the right to rebel. The angels were'the first to exercise that right. God gave 
•man a perfect world. He came and walked with man .in Eden. But such is the fascination of re­bellion that man disobeyed Him to make his own world. . After centuries of blood, sweat, and tears, God cqme again to man, in Christ, and walked with.him to offer him again a perfect world. But the fascination remained, and man crucified God to reassert his right to make the rules of, the world he lives in. So rebels are not new in the scheme of 
lihihgs^ . -••2.-• .,n:. I'- iThls is our world. We have the right to. speak/ .the freedom to publish, the right to dissent/the ^freedom to foil. All these we have forever been prone to exercise vigorously, with or without cause. From; these turmoils on all of the pages of history have come the heroes as well as the villains, the progress as well as the pain, the successes as well as. the-sacrifices. So don't be afraid.of this newest group of alumni. Their drqtogues, their philosophies, their protest, thdr opposition, may startle\ybu. But listen to them. 
Talk with them. They aire the stuff tomorrow has always been made of.' ^.; 'As editor, of the ALUMNUS, I hove just one or two observatloris to moke'to the new Class in Our brbad^fraternity—qndvto all alumni who hove preceded you: This world Js ours, to do with at our competence and our consdence dictate. God has mode it so. But—and this is the reason Notre Dame-exiists--^'the next world is His! Thtt; His rules preydil. He has . given us those fvles in simple qhd clear text.. 
v.'-'f'we have qn interest and a hope, an under­standing and a. faith> thdt-include this next world, then.the.inevitable logic is pur transition from the teinparal freedoms, of'oiir world to a study in d^ttL of: the rules that God has imposed upon us;if^we wish the peifect freedoms of an endless •fiifiirt''-'-.-';' 
Th 5 magazine 
Notre Dame Noire Oome'Ind. EatcTecl or£ei5yitf<lQjijWJfll^*'.-
Ocl. 1, 1939, ol 
Oct of Aug- 24, 
/^  Saturday moming class pictures, as tradi­tional as the reunion itself, brought the more than 900 returning alumni to the steps of the old library to record a part of this year's class gatherings. An entire 10-page feature on the T966 Reunions begins on 10 reunions 1966  <k^T,  c  
Band Held, for years used for practice by the Band of the Hghiing Irish and occupied by hundreds of busses during home football games, has been gauged by bulldozers and tractors clearing the ground for the building of Notre Dame's $6 million Athletic and Convocation Center.  
construction begins  
A veice-of-the-alumni column has been started with this issue, a regular feature which will answer many of the queries sub­mitted by alumni about today's Notre Dame.  
alumni ask  
Aiomni President's LeHer.  rear cover  
Cloises  20  Law School  39  
PotpourriSports  2  46  

735 N08TH 57 AVE. OMAHA, NEB. 48132 
, -;JVH,(IAM^.-.CUDDYr'i2 , — :-• i­\_J.i. '.fUfl. KL;AIS)b DEVElOPffiNT—^ '""-'^^iflAtEMENT;-'; " ' " --' wIJS'BAlBH-AVE.: 
2^' - VVIOTE ;f W^^Oi 
ii^ERBEllT-M.-SSAMPSbM'f ^.4.,;.'•ATHlETl(^••V--^.•l-•.-=. •.,•.--,.••­• --' ^~J!El/6ldN AND.ailZENSHI? ­
A & C CENTER: 
Construction Begins... 
Wielding an unwieldy five-handled shovel, officials of the University and the local community broke ground July 1 for the construction of Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center. 
For the University, the late Friday morning ceremony culminated years of planning the $8 million-plus structure, not to mention the cramped existence endured in the present 1898 fieldhouse. For the In­diana and Michigan communities lo­cated in the S t Joseph Valley, the Athletic and Convocation Center will provide a facility for civic, business and cultural events heretofore un­realized for lack of space and equip­ment. It is estimated by some that the new Notre Dame building will be the largest facility of its kind be­tween Chicago's McCormick Place and Detroit's Cobo Hall. 
The very day selected for the ground-breaking ceremony held spe­cial significance. It followed the June 30th completion of Notre Dame's $20 million Challenge n fund drive of which the Athletic and Convocation Center was a major project. The University's president. Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh CSC, who blessed 
the ground, remarked that "we can­not be accused of delay in the bresik­ing of ground for this new center." Others on hand to mEirk the begin­ning of construction included Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president; Edward "Moose" Krause, athletic director; O. C. Car­michad and Frank E. Sullivan, di­rector and co-chairman of the "Val­ley of Vision" local area fund-raising campaign; South Bend Mayor Lloyd 
M. Allen; Herbert E. Jones, athletic department business manager; and construction officials. 
Designed primarily as a center for the University's athletic events the new facility will be located just east of the Notre Dame Stadium. The twin domes and centrsQ concourse will exceed the length of the sta­dium; each dome wiU have a diam­eter of 308 feet and will rise 72 feet at its height. One arena will house 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

the basketball court for varsity games, eight handball courts and four squash courts. On the lower level will be an auxiliary gym vniii basketball court and four intramural gyms. 
A feature of the second arena will be a 200 by 65-foot ice skating and hockey rink, a 10-lap track, basebaU infield and tennis courts. Housed in the central core will be all the offices of the athletic department, coaches' offices for both varsity and intra­mural sports and athletic ticket of­fices. The Monogram Lounge wiU oc­cupy a portion of the first floor whUe the lower level ^vUl be given over to locker rooms. 
More than §1,831,000 was raised in the "Valley of Vision" drive early this year, exceeding the original goal by more than a half-million dollars. Alumni and residents from South Bend, Mishawaka, Elkhart, Buchan­an and Niles contributed heavily toward the structure. Area business leaders have endorsed the center en­thusiastically because it wnU draw various conventions, industrial and business exhibitions to the St Jo­seph Valley. 
Though construction of the Center has just begun, the completion date has been set for the 1968-69 school year. Barring any unforeseen diffi­culties, the contractors — all South Bend area construction firms—^will have the building complete for Coach Johnny Dee to christen the new court by hosting 1965 NCAA basket­ball champions, UCLA. 
CHALLENGE II: 
...a Campaign Ends 
The month of June marked not only the closing of the academic year, but also saw the termination of the University of Notre Dame's Challenge n program. Begun in July, 1963, the challenge posted called for the raising of $20 million necessary to subsidize the University's princi­pal growth objectives. Notre Dame alumni and friends responded strong­ly Eind scored above Challenge n's goal with gifts and grants totaling $22,084,291.89. 
Since its establishment in 1947 the Notre Dame Foundation has sought to create, coordinate and ad­minister fund-raising programs. In the first 10 years since its inception, the Foundation raised more than $27 million. The Challenge I program was begun in 1960 and over a three-year period was able to top its goal with a sum of $18,603,157. 
Challenge II was the Foundation's most ambitious project to date and, in terms of total received, its most successful. But a breakdown of the figures shows some surprising re­sults. 
In the original Challenge program 80% of the University's alumni took part with an average gift of $345. Challenge ITs average gift amounted to $431.11. However, in spite of the increased size of the donation, few­er Alumni took part — only 59.9%. 
In evaluating the gifts of large groupings of participants Challenge n figures were divided into alumni and non-alumni categories. A total of 15,770 Alumni took part in the fund raising with a substantial gift of $4,954,652. More than 880 parents of Alumni contributed a sum of $1,836,708. Gifts totaling $690,316 were contributed by 187 corpora­tions and foundations that are Alum­ni owned and directed. A relatively new program, the deferred giving plan had only 10 participants, but the sum donated amounted to more than $888,000. With the exclusion of the Alumni themselves, gifts in the alumni category totalled $6,503,289. 
Non-alumni gifts, of which there were more than 4,100, amounted to well over nine million dollars. Larg­est contributors in this category were 976 corporations and founda­tions which gave $5,865,823. In total Challenge II received more than 19,000 gifts in excess of $16 million. 
For the second time the Ford Foundation offered Notre Dame a six million dollar grant imder the terms of its famed "matching program." The University was able to meet: the offer and the Ford grant put Challenge n over its goal. 
In comparison with the first Chal­lenge program. Challenge II saw fewer gifts but the average was of greater value. The principal goal of Challenge I was the construction of the Memorial Library. Under ChEdlenge n ground has been broken and work is already under way on the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
KEY FORAitATION OF UNIVERSITY AND CIVIC LEADERS Krause on the end of o lonesome shovel and a five-man excavator team of Carmichael, Sullivan, Hesburgh, Jones and Joyce. 
ALUMNUS JULY }966 AUGUST 
SUAAMER SCHOOL: 
There Was a Time... 
The usual picture of "Summer­

time — Notre DEime" is one of slow-
paced tranquility broken only by the 
passing of a few nuns. Nothing 
could belong more strongly to legend 
—or be farther from the truth. 
This summer more than ten aca­demic Institutes and programs are being conducted on csimpus. Primjiry among these is the annusil summer session. According to Rev. Joseph 
S. McGrath CSC, dean of the sum­mer school, the predominantly grad­uate enrollment numbers over 3,300. Included in this figure are the "few" nuns—about 1,500—more than 500 priests and brothers, and close to 1,300 lay students. More than 250 of the lay enrollees are women. 
The six-week session, which be­gan June 22, will close August 5 with summer commencement exer­cises. 
On campus: Also being conducted by the University this summer are six government-sponsored teacher train­ing institutes. The National Science Foundation has granted Notre Dame $267,100 to conduct four institutes designed to aid secondary teachers in developing potential scientific manpower among their students. Dr. Emil T. Hof man is head of the insti­tute for chemistry; Dr. Robert L. Anthony is directing the studies in physics; Rev. Michael J. Murphy is in charge of the geology program; and Dr. Earth PoUack heads the in­stitute in mathematics. 
Under a National Defense Act grant from the US Ofiice of Educa­tion the University is conducting two other training institutes. On campus 30 school counselors and guidance directors are meeting in an institute designed to give practical insights on the new opportunities for education and employment open­ing up to Negroes and other minor­ity groups. Dr. Nathaniel J. Pallone, assistant professor of education at Notre Dame, is the director of the Guidance Counselor Institute. 
In France: A second NDEA-sponsored training program is being offered by the University to French-language teachers. Prof. Charles E. ParneU, an associate professor of modern languages, is director of the institute which is being held at the CathoUc University of the West at Angers, France. 
Students from the 10th and 11th grades are "enrolled" at Notre Dame this summer as part of the Univer­sity's participation in UPWARD 
It happened for the first time in 1963. Throughout the Col­lege there could be heard the excited sound that usually ac­companies the spread of great news. Windows on 4 West in Le Mans Hall were at a pre­mium. Shining in the morning sun Vfas the familiar SMC water tower—with a message just for St. Patrick's Day. A huge block ND in brilliant green letters had been painted across its side. 
The St. Mary's administration lost little time in painting out the letters—but they couldn't destroy the memory. The next year, despite the posting of cam­pus guards beneath the tower, the St. Paddy's eve visitor re­turned like a leprechaun in the night. 
March 17, 1966, however, dawned bleak—the water tower remained untouched. It seemed as though the SMC police and the ND dean of students had the upper hand. But in May tradi­tion won out—accompanying the shamrock and dass years of the adventurers appeared a tribute to the Notre Dame spirit: "It had to be done!" 
BOUND. As part of the federally sponsored antipoverty prograim UP­WARD BOUND oflfers lower divi­sion high school students from low-income families an opportunity to experience precoUegiate studies in an on-campus atmosphere. 
According to Dr. Richard J. Thompson, program director and as­sistant dean of the College of Arts £ind Letters, approximately 50 boys are enrolled in the program which hopefully wiU be "one of the most memorable summers of their lives." 
The students are housed in Lyons Hall on campus and follow a sched­ule designed to give them an ac­quaintance with the collegiate life. Classes in literature, mathematics, counseling and reading laboratory are part of the curriculum designed to instill in the participants a mo­tivation towards future coUege en­rollment. In the evening various rec­reational and culturally orientated activities are offered through movies, lectures, music, art and theater pro­grams. 
Bolivia-bound: Peace Corps members form another large segment of the University's resident summer popu­lation. This year two groups are on campus for training: 80 volunteers, slated to perform community devel­opment work in Bolivia, are engaged in an extensive ten-week training program. Joining them is a group of college seniors who will enter the Peace Corps upon graduation next June. They are receiving initial training as Corps members accord­ing to Prof. Walter M. Langford, who is director of the program on campus. 
Swelling the summertime ranks on campus have been a number of short-term institutes. More than 200 sisters, who are all housekeepers or food service directors at convents or other Catholic institutions, gathered for a five-day professional food 
ALL IN THE SUMMER'S WORK Bro. Zaccarelli: active food-service director 
ALUMNUS JULY 19«« AUGUST 
service workshop June 26. Designed 
to integrate the professional and 
spiritual lives of the participants, the 
workshop offered the sisters the op­
portunity to study nutrition, cook, 
bake, and acquire new recipes while 
supplementing their professional 
regimen with lectures on means of 
religious commitment through their 
work. Brother Herman ZaccareUl 
CSC, founder and director of the 
sponsoring agency, the Food Re­
search Center for Catholic Institu­
tions in North Easton, Mass., headed 
the ND institute. 
Sisfer Superiors: Seventeen hundred 
nuns are expected to arrive on cam­
pus August 8 to participate in the 
13th annual Theological Institute for 
Local Superiors. This year the six-
day conference will focus on the im­
pact of the decisions of the Second 
Vatican Council on women's reli­
gious communities. 

The Institute is a cooperative ef­fort between the Notre Dame the­ology department and the Conference on Major Superiors of Women in the US and the Sister Formation Confer­ence. Rev. Albert Schlitzer CSC, head of the department of theology, is chairman of the Institute. Rev. Matthew M. Miceli CSC will be di­rector. This summer the program has scheduled six speakers: Rev. John McCall SJ, professor of psy­chology at Weston College; Rev. Charles Schleck CSC, professor of ascetical theology at Holy Cross Col­lege; Rev. Joseph Blenkinsopp SDB, professor of Sacred Scripture, Sale­sian College, Oxford, England; PhUip Scharper, vice-president and editor of Sheed and Ward; Rev. Kevin D. O'Rourke OP, dean of theology at Aquinas Institute of Theology; Sis­ter M. Roberta IHM, professor of theology at Immaculate Heart Col­lege. 
A two-day "traveling workshop" on intergroup relations was con­ducted June 25-26. The project was sponsored jointly by the South Bend Interracial Council and the Religious Communities of Women of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese. More than 450 nuns and laymen attended the sessions in Stepan Center which explored basic attitudes on race. 
An intensive ten-day conference on stereochemistry was held at the University in early June. Prof. Er­nest L. Eliel, head of Notre Dame's chemistry department, directed the conference which brought together leading stereochemists for a look at the most modern aspects of organic stereochemistry. The program was designed to present problem-discus­sions at the morning sessions and 
lectures in the afternoon. • 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
-ALUMNI ASK-i 
I 
?f 
Repeatedly, Notre Dame lias implored Alumni in­volvement in University matters beyond partici­pation in its financial campaigns. And on just as numerous occasions. Alumni have voiced their feelings about ND to what often appears to be deaf ears. Now, beginning icitft this issue, the ALUMNUS toill provide a medium in which the Alumni can be heard on various tiniversity is­sues. As opposed to the traditional "Letters to the Editor" column, the veiv "Alumni AsUf' feature 
f 
loill endeavor to present a necessarily limited number of constructive queries and suggestions— with answers ivherever possible — which loill 
prove informative to most of the Notre Dame w--^ H ^ community. Jerry Hekker '48, editor/writer on \M ~ • the staff of the Secretary for Hofstra U in New 
York, provides the inquiry for this first column. 
To THE EDITOR: Congratulations on the handsome, new look for the ALITMNUS. It is a welcome and much-needed change. Finally, Notre Dame and her alumni have a publication in which they can evidence some pride. In both the writing and format, however, there is one glar­ing exception to journalistic well-being—those antiquated, out­dated, poorly written class notes. I realize that I might be butcher­ing a sacred cow, but it is necessary to complete the picture of a revamped ALUIINUS. Basically, this is a debate as to the usefulness of the entire section. It tells you nothing of importance and is largely a waste of space. It follows the old newspaper bromide, "names make the news." It is just a succession of who played golf with whom, who met whom, and what have you. I can clearly understand that many might look forward to this section, and this section only, every two months. This, however, is speculation and certainly open to debate. Never­theless, I think that this subject would be a matter of discussion in alumni circles. I feel that the Class Notes should be drastically cut, if not eliminated entirely. Now that the University has successfully shed the label of "football factory" through the brilliant efforts of Father Hes-burgh, and the alumni reunion weekends now appear to be more than just a pet project for beer and brawls through the expansive efforts of the Center for Continuing Education, it is time for the alumni to mature and discard the undergraduate ways. There has been a wonderful new beginning for a new look for the ALUMNUS. Please continue the good efforts. The six-point class notes are the sole deterrent to an otherwise masterful job of writ­ing and format. GERARD J. HEKKER '48 
Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y. 
EDITOR'S NOTE: Ore several occasions in the last 10-15 years, we have gone to the Alumni to find a reply to what alumni magazine editors generally feel is an age-old problem. And every time Alumni answer the survey's question, "Do you favor the retetition of the ALUMNUS' doss notes section?" the majority voice replied in the affirmative. It ivas more than a simple majority in each case, more like a thunderous endorsement. And so magazine policy has been fashioned accordingly. Nevertheless, Jerry Hekker's concern re­flects the tliought of a growing alumni segment who prefer seeing more campus neios, additional campus features and greater attention given intellectual issues i7i the pages of the magazine. It is a group of alumni which looks to the ALUMNUS for timely and informative discussion of campus, national and international matters—the lat­ter two somehow related to Notre Dame. Hopefully, both alumni interests can be satisfied through continuing improvement of the class notes and additional emphasis on tlie more academic issues. Thus, ivhile we on campus search for the editorial ways and means, you, the reader and ND alumnus, can provide us once again vrith representative reaction to shape an updated policy statement. DO YOU PREFER RETENTION OF THE CLASS NOTES SECTION 
IN THEIR PRESENT FORM — OR — DRASTIC REVISION OF THE SECTION TO PERMIT ADDITIONAL FEATURES. 
REUNION 1966: 
Kaleidoscopic 
All systems were "go" on campus the second weekend in June when more than 950 Alunmi from 10 classes returned to Notre Dsime for the 1966 Revmion. 
From corralling cloudless skies— under the "personal direction" of the Alumni Association's Secretary—to returning remnants of the three-day weekend to forgetful Alumni resi­dents, the annual gathering of classes went off with nary a hitch. 
This year's reuniting classes in­cluded men from 1916 (golden anni­versary), 1921, 1926, 1931, 1936, 1941 (silver anniversary), 1946, 1951, 1956 and 1961. Conference, Survey and Programs. Several innovations highlighted this year's Reunion, among them the first annual Alumni Seminar. More than 50 Alumni returned to campus Thurs­day, Jime 9, to join in the day-and­a-half conference that had "The Problem of Population" as its topic. Held in the Center for Education, the symposium was prepared by the Center's staff and presented by var­ious members of the University's faculty and administration. 
Inaugurated Saturday morning was a program to familiarize ND graduates with the status of the Uni­versity today. Rev. Joseph B. Simons CSC, dean of students, told old and young Alumni alike of the changes afoot in the University. His com­ments on today's students particular­ly fostered lively discussion from the floor. Later, in separate session, fac­ulty members of the lour under­graduate colleges sketched the direc­tion their schools have taken in re­cent years in matters of curriculum and faculty. 
The same Alumni faculty members who organized the morning informa­tion program also devised a survey intended to give the Alumni an op­portunity to evaluate their education at Notre Dame. The questionnaire— intended to be infoiroational, anon­ymous and not "Foundation ori­ented"—^was distributed to all of the returning Alumni at registration and later gathered at the conclusion of the Reunion. The results of the sur­vey already have been tabulated and will be contained in a special feature in the September 1966 October issue of the ALUMNUS. 
A Vetville Dedication. Saturday af­ternoon brought out members of the former Vetville community to a spe­
• :MARRIED STUDENliS^fet^­
"MANY WERE T^feWmtL^Ss jJHANKS TO THEiHOp-fA^P: "FOR THE MANY:;BljK5Tt|(S>­,, NEEDED TO PE'RSE'fER'#^?'' 
cial ceremony held north of the new library to dedicate a plaque that marks the site of Notre Dame's postwau: married housing. President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, first priest to serve as chaplain of Vetville, blessed the plaque and ad­dressed the assembled group of for­mer chaplains, mayors and residents. The plaque stands along the sidewalk on the north side of the new library. It notes the location of the old com­munity and gives "thanks to the Holy F£unily for the many blessings needed to persevere." 
The Reunion, as would be expected, was not without its traditional fim­filled programs. Activity surround­ing the golf tournament, class pic­tures, campus tours and the outdoor beer parlors was much in evidence throughout the weekend. 
Almost 400 returning Alumni en­tered the goU tournament that saw Bill Stotzer '56 from Peoria, Bl. the grand winner of the 36-hole tourna­ment with a gross score of 147. Hon­ors in the 18-hole senior tournament went to Herman Green '36 from New Castle, Pa. who shot a 77; while first place in the junior division 18­hole tournament was won by Pat Putnam '41 from Kittery, Me. who fired an 81. 
From Hughie... '-to the 
manij fricmh ice cannot contact pcrsonaUu irc icould like to ex-j)rcss our thanks to all v:ho did so much regarding the Old-Tim­ers game dedication, and to those tcho provided Mrs. Dcvore and vij/sclf xcith a trip to Ireland. The trip through the old coun­try loill he held off for the pres­ent. Hoivevcr, in its place ivc loill purchase a new car lehich icill provide transportation for the family to Houston." 
HUGHIE DEVOEE 

ALUMNI SEMINAR: 
Unveil Potential 
The first Alunmi Seminar con­ducted fay the Continuing Education Center on the current topic of "The Problem of Population" developed an erratic pattern of achievement. 
The topic is self-evidently one on which Alumni need to be informed if they are to exercise properly their intellectual apostolate, and provide the educational leaven for the Cath­olic society (and for its spreading 
REUNION HIGHLIGHTS ecumenical dialogue). Addresses by President Carney and Hesburgh, a VeWille dedication The panel assembled was distin­and a tribute to Mel Elward '16. guished in the Eu:eas of the encyclo-
AlUMNUS JULY Z966 AUGUST 

ALUMNI SEMINAR Panelists Bergin, Shuster, Sheedy and Crosson. 
pedic field they covered. Dr. George Shuster and Dr. Fred Crosson dis­cussed the "Morality of the Means of Responsible Parenthood" with Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC and Dr. Thomas Bergin as co-chairmen. "Population Policy in a Pluralistic Society" was ably advanced by Rev. 
T. B. McDonough and Dr. John Kane with your Alumni SecretEU-y as chair­man. "The University's Role in the Population Studies — Notre Dame's Involvement" had Dr. William Liu and Sr. M. Jean Vianney CSC as speakers with Dr. Shuster filling the chair originally scheduled far Rev. Albert Schlitzer CSC. The final ses­sion treated the "Dimension of the Population Problem," a panel featur­ing Rev. John A. O'Brien and Dr. WilUam D'Antonio with Dr. Thomas Carney (Alumni Association Presi­dent) as discussion leader. 
There were obviously other topics of relevance and authorities on other phases of the broad problem not in­cluded in this first symposium. But from the scope of the topics and the stature of the speakers it seems evi­dent that Alumni who attended the sessions were informed and updated in an outstanding manner on dia­logue which swirls around them in the environments they represent. 
The disappointment was in at­tendance—50 Alumni. An experi­mental session, it omitted invitation to families. Although contiguous to the Reunion weekend, it was irrde­vant to it. Substance and form ex­ceeded our expectations: attendance is a matter of promotion and evolu­tion. 
ROCKNE: 
indless Saga 
Don't worry that Knute Rockne will be forgotten. 
Francis Wallace '23 is bringing out a new book, Rockne to Par­segliian, this fall. More detaUs will 
ALUMNUS JULY 19M AUGUST 
follow on this, but we can say now that it is an excellent record of Rockne and his successors. David McKay Company, Inc. is publisher. 
Another treatise on Rockne is pro­posed by Paul Castner '23. Paul, one of Rockne's greatest all-around ath­letes (football, basebaU, basketball and hockey), wants to do a short book dealing with the tremendous but little-publicized influence that Rockne had on his athletes as a per­son. The interest and kindness which Rock showed to the boys while they were students, and in helping them to get jobs, and in advancing them in their careers, are known to each recipient. But the public has never seen this modest, softer side of the great coach. To those affected, it was perhaps his greatest. Paul has asked that alumni who know of such incidents, or those involved in them, to contact him. His address is 1613 Cedar Lane, Newport, Mich. 
FROM ROCK TO ARA Updating a 35-year legend. 

LIBRARY: 
Directorial Shift 
There will be a new director of libraries at the University this fall when Rev. James W. Simonson CSC takes over the position from Victor 
A. Schaefer. After 14 years of ser­vice at Notre Dame, Schaefer has taken a one year leave of absence to accept the directorship of the new Library of Congress office in Wiesbaden, Germany. 
Under Schaefer's administration 
the Library's holdings increased 
from 342,000 to 780,000 volumes. 
The planning of the new Memorial 
Library and the tremendous task 
of efiiciently trzmsferring the li­
brary's entire collection was cjuried 
on under his supervision. 
In his new post overseas Sdiaefer 
will be in chau-ge of collecting and 
cataloging all works of scholarly 
value being published in Germany. 
Father Simonson, who recently earned his doctorate in the dassics from Harvard University, is familiar with library work through his ser­vice as chairman of the Faculty Library Committee. 
COMMENCEMENT: 
Faculty Honoraries 
At commencements faculty mem­bers often go unnoticed once they have passed in colorful academic procession. At Notre Dame, how­ever, a full share of the day's lime­light is given to two outstanding faculty members. An integral part of graduation exercises is the pre­sentation of the faculty awards: the Lay Faculty Award, the University's highest faculty honor, and the Thomas P. Madden Awjird for dis­tinguished teaching of freshman courses. Each is accompanied by a §750 honorarium. 
The Lay Faculty Award, estab­lished by the Notre Dsune Alumni Association, honors a faculty mem­ber who has rendered distinguished service to the University. At the 121st commencement in June Rev. Theo. M. Hesburgh CSC presented the award to Dr. Bernard D. Cullity, professor of metallurgical engineer­ing. Dr. Cullity joined the faculty in 1950 and since that time has been active in both the dassroom and laboratory. His researdi in metal­lurgical engineering and matericils sdence has been supported by the US Atomic Energy Commission jmd the Office of Naval Research. He is also the author of a metallurgy text­book, Elements of X-Ray Diffraction. 
He received his undergraduate degree from Canada's McGill U., his master's from the U. of Minnesota, and his doctorate from IMIT. 
Recipient of this year's Thomas 
P. Madden Award was Robert A. Leader, associate professor of art The prize for the outstanding fresh­man teacher is named for Thomas 
P. Madden, professor of English at Notre Dame for 29 years until his retirement in 1938. Prof. Leader is the fourth recipient of the award. 
He holds a diploma in Fine Arts from Yale University and an MFA 

CSC's: 
Changes Announced 
The traditional announcement of the obediences of the Holy Cross Fathers was made in June by Rev. Howard J. Kenna CSC, provincial superior. Heading the list of ap­pointments was that of Rev. Louis 
J. Putz as superior of Moreau Sem­inary. Father Putz, who is president of the Fides Publishers, Inc., will continue his work at the press. In his new position as superior he succeeds Rev. Rajonond F. Cour who will take 
SILVER CELEBRATION IN MOREAU CHAPEL 
Jubilorians ot the June 25 concelebroled Moss included Fathers James Anderson, Joseph Powers, Gerald McMohon, Williom Morrison, John and Joseph Holey, William McAuliRe, Lloyd Teskc, Raymond Cour, John Wilson, Chorles Collahon, Clement Funke, Louis Furgol, Joseph Miller, Thomas and Patrick Peyton, Francis Sampson, John Foley, George Schidel, Erwin Orkiszewski, Thomos Curran and Joseph Doherty. 
from the U. of Illinois. Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1953 Leader studied at the Museum of Fine Art in Boston and traveled extensively in Europe, Asia and Africa. 
His work as a liturgical artist is principally in painting and in the medium of stained glass. More than fifty colleges, churches and other public buildings display his paint­ings, murals and stained-glass windows. 
Which Came First 

over duties as chaplain at St Mary's College. In addition to his duties as chaplain Father Cour will continue to serve as professor of government and international studies at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Thomas O'DonneU has been named an assistant superior of Mo­reau Seminary, a post in which he succeeds Rev. John Burke who will now cissume Father O'Donnell's for­mer duties as assistant superior of 
Holy Cross House. 
Carroll Hall has returned to the University and with it comes a most confusing question of seniority. Orig­inally a dormitory in the west wing of the Adminis­tration Building, it had its demise in 1946 when the rooms were given over for office space and the name retired. Its resurrection has been announced as part of a plan for the rejuvenation of Dujarie HaU. This fall approximately 100 seniors, juniors and sophomores will move into the building formerly occupied by the Holy Cross Brothers. With the new tenants goes the "new" name — Carroll HalL Built in 1908 Dujarie-Carroll is, paradoxically, the most recent addition to the University's 18 men's residence halls. Which raises the question: Is it the "oldest of the new" or the "newest of the old"? 
The chang e of assignments marked the retirement of two priests from the faculty and stzifE at Notre Dsune. Rev. Philip S. Moore has left his duties as academic assistant to the president of the University to assume new responsibilities in the archives of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province. A special assign­ment with residence at Moreau Sem­inary has called Rev. John J. Red­dington from his duties as director of the Notre Dame laundry, a post which he held since 1954. 
With the close of his sabbatical leave Rev. Chester A. Soleta, for­mer vice-president for academic af­fairs at the University, returns to the Notre Dame faculty. Leaving Notre Dame for duties as assistant chap­lain at St. Mary's is Rev. Roman La­dewski, who has been teaching in the General Program. Rev. James L. Shilts has resigned his duties as as­sistant religious superior of the Holy Cross priests at Notre Dame to pur­sue advanced studies at Indiana U. He is succeeded by Rev. Daniel Cur-tin, formerly master of novices at the novitiate in Jordan, Minn. 
Assignments as chaplains to the Holy Cross Brothers have fallen to four CSC's. Rev. Salvatore Fanelli leaves the assistant pastorship of St Joseph's parish in South Bend for assignment as chaplain at the St. Joseph Novitiate of the Brothers of Holy Cross in Rolling Prairie, Ind. The new Holy Cross Junior College will be the site of the future labors of Rev. Russell J. Huff who wiU serve as chaplain at the college. Rev. Henry G. Glueckert will serve as ehaplEun at the infirmary, Dujarie House, while Rev. Thomas F. Mc-Nally has been named chaplain at the scholasticate. Both Fathers Mc-Nally and Huff will continue as edi­tor and associate editor, respectively, of the Cafliolic Boy and Miss. • 
TOPSIDE BRIEFS 
Hams' Bone-Up With caE letters filling the airwaves ham radio opera­tors took over the Notre Dcime stadium June 24-25 for a radio field day. Four complete transmitting and receiving stations, operating for the entire 24-hour period, were set up in the press box for use by the 80 participants. Competition was based on the number of contacts made and hdd for a minimum of 30 sec­onds. A further restriction limited the count to con­tacts made within the US and Canada. Plaques were awarded both to individuals and clubs with the high­est taUies at the dose of the event. Beside the com­petition the field day offered the amateur operators the opportunity for training and tests of their ability to handle communications in times of emergency when normal chemnels are disrupted. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

Lauds 
The "Seer from Salisbury Plain," a glazed ceramic sculpture of a monk, won first prize for Rev. Anthony Lauck CSC in an exhibition sponsored by the Art Asso­ciation of Newport, R.I. Father Lauck, who is head of the art department and director of the University gallery, took top honors in competition with over 300 entries. Closer to home. Father Lauck also carried off the blue ribbon from the Northern Indiana Art Salon in Hammond. His winning sculpture was a limestone carving, "Magdalen." 
Miaofilm Archives 
The family papers of Gen. WiUiam Tecumseh Sher­man, now housed in the University archives, are to be microfilmed for use by libraries and scholars throughout the country. Rev. Thomas McAvoy CSC, University archivist and director of the project, re­vealed that the General Services Administration has awarded the University Library a second grant to continue the work of the project begun last year. The $23,300 also wll be used to microfilm the letters and papers of philosopher Orestes A. Brownson, the family papers of former Secretary of the Interior Thomas Ewing and the WW I correspondence of Ed­ward N. Hurley, buUder of the "Bridge to France." 
Pioneer Plan 
Reunion '66 marked the initiation of what promises to become a traditional although unofficial part of the silver anniversary class program. The Class of '41 was the first to participate in the Foundation's De­ferred Giving Program. Under this plan aU 25-year classes will be asked by mail to indicate simply whether or not they have made any provision for Notre Dame in their estate planning. Unlike the pledge system, the deferred giving program records no specified amounts — only whether provision has been made for a bequest. A conservative minimum value estimate (based on previous gifts) of the 96 bequests made by the '41ers places their gift at $73,000. A silver serving tray, to be used exclusively in the library penthouse, was presented to Notre Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, by the Class of '41 at their Reunion luncheon as a token of their participation in the silver anniver­sary bequest program. 
Men of Position 
Appointments of faculty and staff members to posi­tions of new responsibUity have been announced by several departments of the University. Dr. James Michael Lee has been named acting head of the de­partment of education in the absence of Dr. Robert Strickler who is currently serving as associate director of the Institute for Services to Education in Wash­ington, DC. New head of the mathematics depart­
ment is Prof. WUhelm StoU. He succeeds Prof. O. Timothy O'Meara who will now devote his full time to teaching and research. Dean A. Porter assumes his position as the new curator of the University's art gallery with the beginning of the academic year in September. An assistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation since 1964, Frank C. KeUy has been assigned additional duties as assistant to the Univer­sity's vice-president for public relations and develop­ment. Patrick Strickler joins the University staff as assistant director of public information. James Mur­phy, press officer since 1952, will handle additional executive responsibilities centering around the edito­rial phases of the University's development program and the supervision of editoral staff members. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
Bequest Unresolved 
No further development has been received by the Uni­versity on the matter of the bequest made by Miss Florence M. DaUey. The will of the former secretary, who died last Febructty, bequeaths to Notre Dame §8.5 million. It is being contested, however, by her surviving relatives who contend that a mutilated, un­dated will, which makes no mention of the University, is the later and therefore legal document. The wills have gone to probate and time now holds the answer to Notre Dame's fortunes. 
St. Cecilia Award 

A tradition of the Notre Dame Band made a rare appearance at the annual band banquet May 24 when Dr. James Neilson was awarded the coveted S t Cecilia Award. This year's recipient was only the fourth musician to be so honored since the band's founding in the mid-1800's. He was chosen by the executive board of the band and cited as "the example of true Christian sensitivity in curtistic standsirds. . . ." Dr. Neilson has earned his reputation in vsudous phases of the music field. He has directed the Oklahoma City University band and choir; performed as first trumpet with the Oklahoma City symphony orches­tra; served as professor of instrumental music at Oklahoma City U.; and served as director of music for that city's chamber of commerce. At present he is director of education for G. Leblsmc Corporation. 
Living and Learning 
In an effort to foster language training among de­mentary school children, the University is conducting a French institute this simimer. More than 70 French teachers are studying at the Catholic University of the West in Angers, France from June 16 to August 
19. Supported in large part by a grant from the US Office of Education the institute charges no tuition or fees. Under the direction of Prof. Charles E. Pamell the institute has been designed to provide an oppor­tunity for the teachers to improve their language skills and their ability to apply linguistics, while at the same time increasing their awareness of the relation­ship between language and culture. Toward this lat­ter objective four weekend tours through sections of France have been arranged as part of the institute's program. Those completing the course work will re­ceive eight credits applicable towzurds their master's degrees at Notre Dame. 
Collegiate Corpsmen The Peace Corps training program has taken on a new 
dimension as two separate, but integrally related programs are being conducted on campus this simi­mer. As part of an effort to introduce recruits to the Peace Corps prior to their intensive training phase, a group of 80 college seniors spent last summer in a preliminary training course at Notre Dame. Dur­ing the academic year they maintctined dose contact with the training institute prior to their return for this summer's 10-week training session. They £ire the first group to have undergone the double orientation project. According to Prof. Walter Langford, director of the University's Peace Corps program, a second group of collegiate trainees will partidpate in this summer's course from July 5 to July, 31. Both the volunteers and the trainees are slated for two years' service in Bolivian community devdopment work. Since its initial entry into the Peace Corps project in 1961, Notre Dame has trained 330 volunteers, a record which ranks the University seventh among participating large universities. 
l^^is^lsiiiisis 
icf and scr;s::;:?!3 and poh:^-eu ;;^ 
Jim 
ui ;:u;:ri<­
r:S;^^ 

Three generations of O'Neills have attended Notre Dame. Grandfather William '06 was the first, followed by a trio of O'Neills who together joined this year's Reunion festivities. They are Denny Sr. '26 (center), father of Denny Jr. '51 (left) and Mike '61. Also on hand for the weekend was son-in-law Bob Wallace '51. 
Old yearbooks and class photos occupied a good part of the Reunion iveekend for the Class of '16. Gathered here for a session of "before and after" pictures are Duch Freund, Pat Maloney, Ray Kelly, Fred Mahafjey, Grover Miller and Lou Keifer. 
/j''^-- Well, it was a great weekend! FIFTY YEARS! Seems we all arrived by car. After reg-i C'Xi istering for $25 — a bargain — we were given programs. Class hats (of orange — they 
W'Mi 

^ "^=^' " -—-• fit for once). Then husky seniors carried us over to Alumni Hall where we were given 
rooms by more fine boys. I was delighted to draw Pat Maloney. As I got settled his son. Rev. Pat 
Maloney CSC, informed me that "Dad snores badly." I pondered the problem and then decided to 
have them move me to a single room where I could sleep in peace. It was wonderful to meet in 
rooms and also sit out in the sunshine near a big refreshment tent — again, attended by big Notre 
Dame students. Stories, yearbooks, old picture albums of the gang. Wonderful! Wonderful! Tours 
of the campus, box lunches of fried chicken with trimmings. The weather was perfect. Friday night 
we had a special Class SO-Year Banquet in the Morris Inn, which included the late Father Schumacher, 
Father Hagerty, Alumni President Thomas P. Carney '37, Fred Steer, "Red" Miller and other old-timers. 
Saturday—more campus inspections, a Class picture, more eating in the yard and then a big banquet in 
the new student dining hall. Our Class v/as given the place of honor — head table — and Mai 
Elward covered himself with glory playing golf. Bill Bradbury, Bob Carr, Joe LaFortune, Ralph Lathrop 
and Emiiio Saiaiar of Cuba were detained. We were sorry to hear of the deaths of Jim Odem and 
Hoot King. Sunday, 9:45 a.m. Alumni Mass in the Sacred Heart Church celebrated by nine class-
member priests was most inspiring. Friday noon till Sunday afternoon was an exciting experience. 
From now on we belong to the Fifty-and-Over Club and are welcome back every year. Many of us 
will be back every June — God willing. 
— GROVER M. MILLER. Secretary 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
^^^^^^8 To the members of I ^M ^ 1 '21 who v/ere un­
• '^i^ £am. I able to attend the Reunion: You fellows really missed something! You missed the Chicago boys, Bill Allen and George Witterled; Barney Carney and Bill Sherry from Tulsa, Okla.; Judge Bray from Bellefon­taine, Ohio; Al Abrams from Atlanta; Mark Zimmer from Kokomo; Charlie King from Moline; Bill Mulflur of the Canadian contingent, from Sault Ste. Marie, Ont.; and Judge Dixon from Dixon, 111. Joe Tillman came all the way from Riviera Beach, Fla. And the always present and enjoyable contin­gent from South Bend — Chel Grant, Jake Kline, Callix Miller and Ray Schub­mehl — was there. The N.Y. group arrived first and left last, and seemed to have the most fun: Joe Brandy from Ogdensburg (you all remember "Little Joe from Big O"), Leo Kelly from Syracuse whose grandchildren are the greatest in the world. There were 

19 of us present, together each day and half the night. There was plenty to talk about, plenty of old days to review, a few remembrances and a lot of laughs. The missing should lay plans to be there for our 50lh. We were given Walsh Hall — in our day the Gold Coast—and plenty of ser­vice. Father Leo Ward spent a lot of time with us. Lay plans now not to miss the next one. 
— DAN W. DUFFY, Secretary 

Their leader. Secretary Dan Duffy, at the head of the table, the Class of 1921 frolics in the Morris Inn at their Friday evening class dinner. 
'You'll knov/ the good guys — they wear white hats." This slogan ap­
1926 

plied to the 52 members of the 1926 Class who returned for the 40th Reunion on June 10, II and 12. The various reunion classes were fur­
nished hats and we were very outstanding with our white. A t the Class dinner held Friday night the following offi­cers were elected for the coming five years: Frank Deitle, pres.; Doc Gelson, sec; Art Haley, treas.; Jim Dwyer, Eastern vp; Art Suder, Midwest vp; Izzy Probst, Southern 
Elsewhere, ". . . the good guys—they wear white hats" loll in the shade of their carnival canvas. 
vp; and Bert Dunne, Western vp. At the dinner, a stand­ing vote of thanks was given to Rudy Goepfrich for his great work during the past term as president, especially for the fine weekend he had set up for us at the Reunion. Frank Deitle expressed the hope that he would be able to follow in Rudy's footsteps, although he would not be able to cover the world as Rudy had done before his recent retirement. It was disclosed that Rudy has well over 100 patents registered in his own name. On Satur­day morning. Rev. Thomas O'Donnell CSC celebrated a memorial Mass in the chapel of Alumni Hall where we were quartered. There were 31 names added to our deceased list during the past five years and the total now is 121. Some of the returnees brought with them several 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

J§  ^^k^^  M  ^°  ^"  ^^°^^  '^^°  "lade  the  effort  to  attend  our  35th  Reunion  in  
J  \i 4  ^  J  early June,  CON GRATU LAT IONS!  Approximately  75  young  men  
'  ^  ^  ^  ^  "  represented  our  Class at  its  most  recent  get-together  and  enjoyed  

reminiscing with classmates and former teachers. As usual, the weather was ideal, mild and dry. Honors for long distance go this year to Maurice Regan, Bud Geis and Ed Sheeran, all three making the trip from Southern California. The Midwest and East Coast were well represented, and Spike Sullivan represented the near-South­west. Jim McQuaid was on hand and brought along several copies of his publication, "Historic Vincennes," which were well received by classmates. Jim attended all functions in his wheelchair and there were plenty of drivers to guide him about. enjoyed a visit with Peter Casterline MD who roomed with F. X. Murphy during his freshman year. Dan Williams was on hand for the first time since his Reunion visit in 1936. Dan could/notsay enough about this beautiful campus. Louis Godoy, now in the insurance bosir§Ssj ipN^ew York, enjoyed his first reunion since graduation. 
Bert Melzger, Edaie/^an/ar*)'^Cfiri»Cronin visited Fr. Doremus and Fr. Riley. Also visiting Alumni l/alnva//aifl f^\cp/fmfytas a friend to many '3lers. Friday night as usual v/as th/aeyesi niqm^s/tb^R^unioa.yQl^^lass dinner v/as held in the South Dining Hall, ia Wr«t//e xnevJeamer/3sAa^\a'/ f/Q^^<im'ms room. After dinner, activity on tn&*[jJllc^/Mumry mi/drsadlt Mra/sa /igo^sly^h* into the early dawn hours. The early mofni^ F'^lP^r?^/PT iQ ^/h^/ry^eaBtifiy JyitOTing" came from the little man with thcsjjo^/fe^yf ^oicEf ioynrify Bjayis/ tried 
to organize a lake party for him, BBT igoyraarw/jyi^ ^f^h&ryc m erKrgy after the Class picture. Many joined in bus tours o^>ip</cei^p/^Qr/v«iysd\h\ familiar paths which almost always indue d a visit to the GrOLteJn/dfiftiol^^to^al•tiVpating in the various programs featured ^t^^S^reunion. I posted a c^£//of/ar l^ter from Dick Baker on the Alumni lis best wMj|s_^ all classmates, He had planned to aft of the national spelling contest in Washington, DC b^A Tfind. Bill Morphy sent his best wishes to all from Mexico/City. .-^ , -" n London with World Airways, will shortly be returningro ma/jSy/Jftn&i the^e^i-ly arrivals were golfers Frank Holland and Phil Angsten. Larry MollErtpia /ytb e Alumni tournament and received a prize for either long ball or low sbare s ;s a rush bit of news for the '31 column so ! cannot mention everyone with whom" And the Class dinner, the election of officers was tabled. As your hard-working Class secretary, I solicit your help with regular news for the column. Please use the tear-out cards in the ALUMNUS and send something regularly. Word was received shortly before the Reunion of the death of our classmate, Francis Loney of Cincinnati. He died in April. The father of Dick Barber died during the Reunion. To their families, sympathy and prayers of the Class are offered. 1 hope that those expert photographers will not forget to send a copy or two of some of the groups they snapped. 
— JAMES T. DOYLE, Secretary 
bottles of pills, heating pads, etc. and many had long reminiscing that they forgot to look at the gauge and tales about recoveries from heart attacks. Those who ran out of gas on the Indiana Toll Road. Charlie Mason, had retired seemed to be content; but others who talked who felt that Indiana Bell could get along without him, about retirement in the near future did not seem to look recently retired. Charlie Marguet found out that his class­forward to it. Although no prizes were given, the two mates look a lot different since he recently had cataracts 
who came the longest distances were Mark Mooney and 
removed from both of his eyes. Mai Knaus was well Iz Probst. Iz drove up from Miami with two of his chil­
heard from during the weekend. Bud Barr was not his usual "spritely" self as he had back trouble which both­dren who aren't much older than some of our grand­ered him during the Reunion. Tom Burke is still a bachelor children. Speaking of grandchildren Clem Crowe, who and does not look forward to any other state in life. He was down to his football playing weight of 185 after and Jim Dwyer took many long jaunts around the campus. 
having recovered from a heart attack, has 30 grandchil­Telegrams were received from Bob Cahill and Joe Shea dren with the 31st due soon. Rudy Goepfrich came sec­expressing their regrets that they were unable to attend, ond with 20 grandchildren. Although Chicago was in the and extended their best wishes for a happy Reunion. 
midst of a primary fight. Art Bidwill and James Ronan In order to help your new secretary fill up this column called a truce and were with us for a couple of days. 
each issue, pass on to me any news you can about your­However, they both had to return to Chicago, Saturday self or other •26ers. It will be appreciated. 
night, to attend various meetings. Tom Farrell and Gerry Hayes drove out from New Jersey and were so occupied —J.N. "DOC" GELSON, Secretary 
ALUMNUS JULY \966 AUGUST 
Our 30th Reunion has come and gone. It was rather disappointing that more of our class­mates were not present; but those of us that were there had one grand time renewing old friendships and rem­iniscing experiences of bygone days. Believe you me, they were delightful. We had many a laugh over the stories and tales that were told of former school days. In fact, so many wonderful ex­periences were being recalled at numerous bull sessions, that in order to remember even a few of them I would have had to have a tape-recorder going full time. The stories, jokes and tales that were related were out of this world. We made a really good choice in electing Tom Grady from Chicago our Class president for the next five years. Tom will make a fine president with his sparkling personality and wit. I was "railroaded" into the Class secretary's job once again. Won­der who our treasurer is? Would like to get my hands on some money for past expenses. Sure would like to get reimbursed, as it has cost me plenty. I would like to pay special tribute to George McNeil for his fine speech at our Friday midnight snack. We hated to leave the campus on Sunday morning, but leave we did — with pleasant memories of our stay. We had enjoyed old friendships once more and our tour of the campus revealed the tremendous expansion the University has undergone the last few years. In closing I have a request from Tony Mazziotti for Classmates to write a note to Jack Robinson — especially the boys who played ball with him. This is an urgent request for all members of the "36 Class. Jack lives at II I 15th St.. I-A, Garden City, N.V. To all of you —please 
forward me any news regarding our past Reunion or what you and other classmates are doing, i will see that it and other information get into the ALUMNUS magazine. 
1936 

— LARRY PALKOVIC, Secretary 
'36ers had their night Friday in the Morris Inn when more than 65 of them attended a Class dinner and elections. Among them were Secretary Larry Palkoaic, Reunion Chairman Jerry Vogel, Don McCormack and President Bert Bauer (seated). 
ALUMNUS JULY 196(5 AUGUST 

The Class of 1941, pioneers of a new defened-glving program to the University, presented a silver tray—emblematic of their participation in the Silver Anniversary Bequest Program —to Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC. Making the presentation are Class Secretary Jim Spellman, President Dick O'Connor and Deferred-Giving Class Agent Don Tiedemann. 
m^ 

M ^^^ JM M On United's mainliner heading for South Bend the eve­
• ^IA^BL I ning of June 9 were Hub Schlafly, George Miles, Bert 
B ''^ ^ • I Kelly, Richie Mead and your scribe. It was a good flight, with food and cheer available to all. We '4lers were reminiscing about the Class while inspecting the 1941 "Dome." Naturally, the cute stewardesses paused to examine the various pictures of the graduates of a generation ago. Everything was proceeding smoothly until the blonde girl said, "Heavens, I wasn't even born when you men were graduating!" If ever there was a sobering thought, that was it! It seemed to set the pace for things that were to come. Sure, some had aged another five years; but for those who returned for the first time, 25 years had been generally kind. However, it became apparent that time had indeed taken its toll. Most of the returnees would reach into their pockets and get out the reading glasses in order to sign the "Dome," or to read the price tags on the items in the store. Much of the gab was about the sons and daughters who were graduating that week. Some of the wives were re­turning for their 25th Reunions at St. Mary's or elsewhere. Meanwhile, the trees that were slim saplings in 1941 were full grown and lush. The campus never looked more beautiful. The weather, which had been violent up to the day before, cleared and was perfect for the entire weekend. It could not have been otherwise, for none other than "Mr. Alumnus" him­self, Jim Armstrong, had been the chairman of the weather committee! It was truly superb. It became apparent Thursday night, June 9, that big things were in the offing. We no sooner had landed when Ed Harvey met us at the airport, in a short time we were at the Center for Continuing Education, registering and receiving our insignia (caps). Thence by Volks­wagen bus to Lyons Hall where a large-size party was already in full swing. Before the night had run its course, over 50 classmates had assembled! More and more drifted in on Friday, and still more on Saturday, until there were over 165. The official count of returning 4rers was 164. Vour secretary had hoped to have each man sign the "Dome" but many escaped! The agenda was followed very closely; however, a few missed the Class picture on the old Library steps, because the photographer was punctual. Many of us had never seen the new library except in pictures; or the new TV studios, or the geodesic dome of Stepan Center. Some of it seemed startling by contrast with the Gothic edifices we knew way back when. Some of us found our way to the resting place of Cardinal O'Hara, to the left rear of the Church. His tomb is simple and beautiful, as is the inscrip­tion carved into the walls around the pink marble in which he lies. Yes, indeed, 25 years has brought many changes, not all completely acceptable to us traditionalists; but, then, it is still Notre Dame. Since this is merely a brief wrap-up of the Reunion, your old scribe will not indulge in person­alities until the issues following this. But, I will note that the success of the get-together was in very large measure due to the tremendous job ac­complished by our local chairman Jerry Hickey. Our salute to you, Jerry, and sincere thanks. Much more to follow, next issue. —JIM SPELLMAN, Sec. 
: T ,,M 

The 20th REUNION has come and gone, but it will be one that will long be remembered by those who were able to return for this gala occasion. The pro­
1946 gram was just excellent, the weather could not have been better and the pleasure 
of reminiscing with old friends was most enjoyable. The one and only big disappointment was the lack of attendance. Let's hope the 25th, the big one, will not have this repeat. Don't let your UNI­VERSITY and CLASSMATES down. Malce plans now so that five years hence you will be there for the Silver Anniversary. Registrants for this 20th Reunion included Tom Burns, Clovis, NM ; Charles "Chuck" Ciauss, Buffalo, NY; Chris Cochrane, Elm Grove, Wis.; Diamond "Nick" Commisa, Newark, NJ; Paul Doyle, Meraux, La.; Ed Fisher, Detroit, Mich.; Art Kernen, New York City; Ed Mieszkowski, Glen Ellyn, III.; Ed Rodgers, Birmingham, Mich.; Kermit "Frenchie" Rousseve, South Bend, Ind.; Harry Surkamp, St. Louis, Mo.; and also Tom Kelly, "Chick" Maggioli and yours truly. "Chick" Maggioli, "Nick" Commisa and Ed Mieszkowski kept the group well entertained, as well as from getting too much sleep with their most amusing stories. Those in attendance had the good fortune of meeting Father Hesburgh, Ed "Moose" Krause and Coaches Ara Parseghian and John Dee. The following offi­cers were elected at the Reunion meeting: Ed Mieszkowski, pres.; Tom Burns, vice-pres.; Harry Sur­kamp, treas.; and Nick Commisa, record, secy. Those who sent regrets for being unable to attend, but who promised to make the 25th included: John P. McGuire, Elmer Angsman, John Vaughn and Frank Ruggiero. John Vaughn, the old "Bostonian," sent a note that he is in the insurance busi­ness but now resides in San Antonio, Tex. How about hearing from Jim Molidor, Bill Granfield, Bob Finnegan, Dr. David "Pat" Massa, Ed Stelmaszek, Frank Kowalski, Bruno Opela, Tom Schreiber and all the rest of you of the Class of '46? By the way, I forgot to mention that in talking with Ed Fisher I learned that he has 10 children — seven girls and three boys. This, no doubt, entitles Ed to be acclaimed "Father of the Class of '46." Paul Doyle runs a close second having eight children. If there are any challenges to Ed's title please let me know. Let's get that news in! Your column is 
your news! 

•PETE RICHISKI, Secretary 
>f. Sr ^f-" 
rF*2 
V 1 ' 

The Class of 1946, beset with wartime attrition of its student enrollment, returned to the campus for its 20th-year Reunion. 
4l ^^^ J™ M After waiting for five years, we found the Reunion was too brief. This was especially I ^ ^ ~ \ I true for those of us who did not arrive until early Saturday morning. Our "old" 
^"^ ^^ classmates were more personable and enjoyable, considerably skinnier and more hirsute than you would have expected after 15 years. The campus itself was never more beautiful than at the Reunion weekend. Having arrived on Saturday, we relied on the comments passed along by the early registrants who voiced their appreciation of the Alumni Seminar on the "Population Problem," and likewise of the updating given by the faculty of the various colleges. Fr. Hesburgh's talk on Saturday evening lived up to our high expectations. It seems many things have changed, but fundamentals remain the same. A large vote of thanks goes to Bob Klingenberger for the out­standing job he did for 15 years. On' Saturday evening he expressed relief in being spelled for a 
ALUMNUS JULY \966 AUGUST 

u 
.ry^..: ^.....•...:v 

•^^^^^^^i^'^^^'mm^mmmmmmm^^m 
five-year hitch. We will try to emulate Bob's fine performance since 1951. Father Basil (Vern Burlc­hart) retired the attendance trophy for our priest classmates, and wondered why more of our ordained classmates were not able to attend. Perhaps at our 20th we will have Fred Brice who just finished his first year at Pope John XXIII National Seminary for late vocations (Weston, Mass.). This is not the St. John's which has the active marching society and poster-painting group. We would really enjoy seeing all our ordained classmates at the next reunion, or sooner. We will have a small get-together on the campus after the Army game, Oct. 8. The exact location will be announced in the next issue. Joe Aucremanne was all set to make the Reunion but fell ill at the last minute. He has promised to make the 20th. Joe and Marie, with the six little Aucremannes, can be reached at Rt. I, Box 23, Wolf Summit, W.Va. We talked to Bill Whiteside who practices law with Fox, Rothschild, O'Brien and Frankel in Philadelphia. Bill also had laid careful plans to attend our 15th but was shot down by 
unexpected, urgent work. He is doubling his efforts to make the next reunion and will be on the lookout for visitors at the Navy game in Philadelphia this October. Tom Carroll promised to make the 20th. Tom is still located in Hutchinson, Kan. with Master Mfg. He is definitely coming up to the Army game. This is the start, and we will try to write or call everyone in the Class before May of '71. Vou can assist by dropping a note to me—Borg-Warner Corp., 200 S. Michigan Ave., Chi­cago, III. 60604. We are especially interested in keeping the address records current. If you know of some classmate who is not receiving his Notre Dame mailings, please send his name and correct address to me. 
— JIM JENNINGS, Secretary 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

Editor's Note: AL Vm WAS CALLED TO SAN FRANCISCO ON 
LAST-MINUTE BUSINESS AND WAS FORCED TO MISS THE RE­UNION. •iOWEVER, TRUE TO FORM, HE SENT A ••SPY" (WHO PREFERS TO REMAIN NAMELESS! TO GATHER CLASS NEWS. ALONG WITH HIS UNSIGNED REPORT. ANONYMOUS SENDS HIS APOLOGIES FOR ANY OMISSIONS — AND REQUESTS YOU 
WITHHOLD ANY COr^PLAINTS ABOUT MISINFORMATION. 
was surprised to note the number of lawyers, doctors 
1956 

and college professors our Class has. Naturally, the business and investment sectors were also well represented. Among those in attendance was the following group of lawyers: Paul Noland, John Kennedy, Bill Weldcn, Ed Cos-grove, Roger O'Reilly, Bill King, Ray Drexler, Mike Kiley, Pat McCartan, Henry Dixon, Jack Fiehrer, Bill Engel, Vic McFadden and Dave Collins. I know there were other lav/yers present, but these are the ones who came to my mind. In the investment and bank­ing field — Gene Brennen and Luke Brennen are both selling stocks and bonds while Larry Kennedy is in banking in St. Paul, Minn. Hal Spencer and Jim Degnan are both representatives of investment banking houses. Bob Hilger is in stocks and bonds in Denver. Bob Richard is handling trust matters for a Canton, Ohio bank. Among the doctors in attendance — Joe O'Connor, Joe Dilallo and Frank Kittredge. Joe Miller, a dentist, was also present. In the teaching profession we have Frank Petrella, chairman of the economics department at Holy Cross; Jim Massey, professor of engineering at ND; Jerry Massey, teaching philosophy at MSU; Don Sniegowski, assistant professor of English at ND; John Polking in math at the U. of Chicago. Bill 
The Class of 1956, the largest Class of returning alumni for this year's reunion, had four of its ou-n priests concelebrate Mass Saturday morning in Morrissey Hall—Rev. Michael Mooney, Rev. James O'Brien. Rev. Thomas Chambers CSC and Rev. 
J. David Ma.x. Registration this year at the Center for Continuing Education ivas the common meeting place for 
many, among them (above) '56ers Tom Mann, Bill Brennan, Jack Hagan and Ken Davis. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

I mm 
Statzer won the golf tournament for the entire Re­union. Leo Lindbeck won the tournament for the junior classes at the Reunion and Hal Spencer and Jim Ramm received prizes for their participation in the golf tournament. For an interesting sidelight— after 10 years—only four members of Badin Hall's undefeated, untied, and unscored-on football team were able to make the Reunion. What happened to the rest of them? Several clerical members of the Class were on the scene: Rev. Dave Max, Rev. Mike Mooney OFM, Rev. Tom Chambers CSC, Rev. James 
jm ^ ^ ^^^M '^^^ *-'a^^ Reunion of '66 has T^^BB^^Tcome and gone with amazing 
I ^^^ ^ ^ I speed. I have been told the beer-stained grass is turning green once again, the doors are back on the hinges and the fire hoses have been wrapped up and put away. I think every­one who returned to campus for the weekend had a very enjoyable time, but in talking to a lot of my classmates over a glass of suds, they thought that there should have been a lot more of our Class on the campus. I would like to introduce the Class officers for the next five years who were elected at the Class dinner: Pres. John Tully, Vice-Pres. Nick Palihnich, Treas. Mike Cronin, and, myself. Sec. Bill Henneghan. At this time, I would like to thank Nick Palihnich on behalf of the rest of the Class for the fine job he has done for the past five years on writing this column. Rather than mention-
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

O'Brien, Bro. Vincent (Watson). Rev. James Robb was unable to make it. Ex-footballers who made it back included Ray Lemek, Jim Mense, John Mc-Mullen, John Kegaly and Bob Salvino. Our Class officers. Bill Warren, Joe Bill and Dave Austigin were present. John Fannon, our Class $-man, was also on the scene. Time to raise a few questions about those who were missing: Harry Lockwood, Jim Dowdle, Ed Denn, John Murray, Walt Arnold, Jack Owen, Tom Falcinelli, Bob Blakie, Tom Cole­man, Jerry Ryan and Spike Daley??? 
The Xortli Dining Hall Friday evening zvas the setting for the Class of 1961's dinner and election. Entertainers and head table guests included Bill Murphy. John Keegan, Pat Hart ««(/ Dave McCann. 
ing all that went on at the Reunion — since there will be plenty of time to pass on the information — I think the primary purpose of this article should be a message to you classmates. This article is prob­ably the first thing that you look at when you open the ALUMNUS. The only way I can get information to put in the column is from YOU. Please send me any news that you think would be interesting. For example — marriages, births, jobs, new locations, or anything you might have heard from one of the boys. In talking to Nick Palihnich, he said the hardest part about getting the column ready for publication was obtaining the information. So in order to make our Class message meaningful, please let me hear from you. Here's hoping that the column will give you some enjoyment and in­formation about the Class of '61. 
— BILL HENNEGHAN, Secretary 
Edilm's Note: REV. MATTHEW A. SCHUMACHER of liberal arts against the efforts to CSC '99, AT 87 THE OLDEST PRIEST IN THE supplant them with so-called "prac­HOLY CROSS FATHERS INDIANA PROVINCE, 
tical" courses. Time has somewhat 
DIED JUNE M. CHAPLAIN OF ST. MARY'S 
eroded his efforts but we can thank 
COttfGE (NOTRE DAME) FROM 1934 UNTIL 
him and his supporter's in that strug­

HIS RETIREMENT IN 1962, FATHER SCHUMACHER
gle for whatever of the classics is 

WAS PRESIDENT OF ST. EDWARD'S UNIVERSITY 
IN AUSTIN, TEXAS FROM 1919 TO 1925, AND HEADED THE COLLEGE OF ST. THOMAS, ST. PAUL, MINN. FROM 1928 la 1933. FATHER SCHUMACHER WAS DIRECTOR OF STUDIES AT NOTRE DAME FROM 1907 TO 1919 AND AGAIN IN 1926 AND 1927. HE WAS HEAD OF THE UNIVERSITY'S PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT IN 1927 AND 1928. 
ON JUNE 10, ED MARCUS '16 RETURNED TO CAMPUS FROM LARGO, FLA. FOR HIS 50TH REUNION. ONE OF THE HIGHLIGHTS TO HIM AT THE FRIDAY NIGHT DINNER WAS MEETING AND LISTENING TO FATHER SCHUMACHER, A GUEST OF THE 50-YEAR CLUB DINNER ALONG WITH REV. CORNELIUS HAGERTY CSC '06. ED 
HAD BEEN FATHER SCHUMACHER'S SECRETARY AS A STUDENT. THE DEATH OF FATHER SCHUMACHER SO SOON AFTER THE REUNION CAME AS A SHOCK. HIS LETTER TO WALTER CLEMENTS 'U ON RECEIPT OF THE NEWS CONTAINS A MOST APPROPRIATE EULOGY. 
FATHER SCHUMACHER: 
To That Distant Shore 
W
HAT CAN be said in eulogy of him? Successive groups of sem­inarians will ever remember his classes in scholastic philosophy, which was not merely a subject to expound for him—it was the fullest e.xpression of his life — his vade mecum. Consider the opening words in his doctoral thesis: The Ktiowableness of God — "If truth is God's handwriting, the ink is in­delible and the pages indestructible." In that one short sentence is not only a complete sermon, it is a thought to contemplate for a life­time. Alas, a great thought on a forgotten page. 
Few now recall his militant role in the Catholic Educational Associa­tion in maintaining academic stan­dards and the traditional importance still retained in the curricula. 
He was a doctor in more than the academic sense. First at St. Ed­ward's College in Austin, Texas and later at St. Thomas' in Minneapolis, as president, he cured two sickly, faltering institutions by his energy, boldness and imagination. They exist today largely as monuments to his administrative skill. Despite all his ethereal qualities he was im­mensely practical. And finally, he spent a quarter of a century at St. Mary's where he was a shining ornament to that faculty. 
Now, at age 87, the dean of Holy Cross priests has gone to that distant shore. And at some celestial round table where Aristotle is presiding as primus inter pares over a select group, his sponsor St. Thomas Aquinas is saying: "Gentlemen, we have a new member. Rev. Matthew Schumacher CSC." 
—ED IMARCUS 
ENGAGEMENTS 
.\li» I'al WiiMz.I .niid CREIGIITO.V MILLER •44. .Miss BlaiicliL-Lillic and E. ROBERT I'RE.MO '57, Miss Kaililicn Bnimiml and JOSEl'll O'REGAN" JR. '58. .Miss KalliUin Mars- O'Hara and D.WID .MARTLV BARRETT '55. .Miss Marsarcl .Man- Ri-viiolds and •l'IIO.M.-\S KERR McBRIDE '59. .Miss Patricia Ann Ginlicld and GERARD JOSEPH WELLLXG 'fill. Miss Jndilli Ann Ji-ITcrs and CHARLES F. QULV.N" III '61. .Miss Jacquilinc .Xppliliv and LARRY J. PAUL '62. .Miss Marlvs Ann Adams and WILLIAM JOSEPH PEDTKE '62. MUs KaililvCTi ElUn Kane and JOHN P.VIRICK SULLIVAN' JR. '62. Miss .Manfred Bro-jcik and SALV.-\TORE G. CILELLA JR. '63. .Miss Barbara Sc-vniour Candit- and .MICHAEL HALPi.v MCCARTHY 'G3. Miss .Mars- Ann Ilcizng and KEN.VETH J. AR.NOLD '6+. Miss .Mars- Elizalii-lli Sullivan and H. JOSEPH WEAVER '64. Miss Carolyn I'alric'ia Kca and THO.MAS BRE.NT BANULIS '65. .Miss C-cilia Carolyn Snrrcntino and JOSEPH .-\NTHO.\Y BUCOLO '65. ^fiss Mars- Louise Benson and JOHN C. ZINK '63. Miss Marlcnc Peler and RON.-\LD F. IlOCIl •66. Miss Kathryn Ann Cosla and JOHN HOULI­HAN '66. .Miss Pamela Lauiijn and RICHARD W. BURKE '68. .Miss Georgia .-Vnn Sanlangelo and PETER MICHAEL DERRICO '66. Miss Jean .Marie Malsclmllat and THOMAS J. DOTY '66. Miss Christine .Ann Kolesialc and DENIS E. SPRl.VGER '67. 
MARRIAGES 
.Miss Vickie Selniykr and ED EVERLV '49, Long Beach, Cat, Dec. 17. .Mrs. Glad;-s L. Czeizjer and GUS CIFELLI '30, Warren. .Mich., May 12. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

•>^i%m:m, 
Miss Nanc\- ^farie Mclntvre and J.-\Y J.-\MES RYAN" '38. White I'Liiis. .\'.Y., .\r.iv 14. 
itiss Anne Marie Shiibler and DAMEL J. CROSSE.N' JR. '59, Rockvillc Centre, X.Y., May 21. 
Miss Joan Marie Smith and 1>.\TRICK E. .MAXTEY '60. I'alo Alio, CaliL, Mav 7. .Miss Mars- Ellen Mato\T.kv and FR.\.NCIS J. O'llRIEX '60, Chicaso. III., April 23. Miss Jo Ann Bergman and ROBERT GIBSOX KOCH '61, Shawnee, Kan., June 11. .Miss .Marilvnn G. Biewald and THOMAS KRETSCIIMER '62, Park Ridge, 111.. April 23. Miss Janice Elaine Gloclicski and THONL\S J. BRUXXER JR. '63, Xotre Dame. June 3. .Miss .Mars- Editli Sabatini and JOSEPH F. CARLIXO JR. 'G3. Long Island. June 12. .Miss Naiics- Lee Kuhn and JAMES EDWARD MALLING 'fiS. Elmhurst. 111.. April 30. .Miss Patricia I. Kohl and TIIO.\I.\S P. SCIIXEIDER '63. .M.ay 7. Miss Wends- Lonise Soinerville and JOHN THOM.\S W.-\LL '63, April 16. Miss Marcaat Mare Leach and ANDREW J. ODWYER JR. "64. .Notre Dame, June 23. .Miss Citherine Dorn and D.WID P. RIVOIR.\ "(U, South Bend. June 25. .Miss Lois M. Grzvivienski and P.VTRICK J. SHELLEY JR., Soinh Bend. June 4. -Miss Jacqiielvne Ewiiiu and RICHARD L. ARRI.XGTOX '63, Sm.tli Bend, M.ay 28. 
.Miss -Mars- Anne Dinolo and WILLIAM -MICHAEL BRIDENSriNE "63. .Vntrc Dame, April 30. 
Miss .Marjorie Durban and WILLIAM RUS­SELL GRACE '63, Jamaica Estates. N.Y., June II. 
.Miss MARY BARREIT (MAT "G6) and DAVID ERIC WORLA-VD "66, Notre Dame. June 18. -Miss Merrs- Leigh -Monnon and JOSEPH JOH-X BOXNER (-MA '66), Soiuli Bend. June 18. Miss Gail Lorraine Burt and RA.XDOLPH D. BRUXELL '66. Xilcs, Mich.. June 6. .Miss Ellen -Marie dc Raedt and LEO J.P. CLARK 'GG. -Notre Dame. June 7. .Miss Karen Sue Dulcet and GEORGE W. JOR­GEXSE.X 'GG, South Bend, June 4. Miss Jeanne Marie Daert and MICHAEL AXDREW PAUWELS 66, South Bend. July 2. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Jl.M SPELLM.AN '41, a daughter. Mars- Margaret, Jan. I. 19G3. and a daughter. Aim Catherine, -Mav 19. 19GG. 
Mr. and Mr5. HOWARD II. FEX.X "31. a son. Roderick, Nov-. 5, 1965. Mr. and Mrs. JOH.X CORBETT O'.MEAR-A '53. a son. Corbett Edge. Mar. 20. -Mr. and .Mrs. P.-\T SHEEHAN '53, a daughter, Jamie Melissa. .Apr. 3. .Mr. and Mrs. BOB LOEFFLER "58. a son, June 22. Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES BROCAX "59. a son, John Michael, June 19. .Mr. and .Mrs. BILL FLY-X-X '59. a son. Thomas, Jan. 18. -Mr. and -Mrs. JOHX FRAXKLI.V H.AYWARD "39. a son. John Peter. .-Xpr. 2. .Mr. and -Mrs. DAVID A. IIOSINSKI "39, a son. June 2. Mr. and Mrs. HOWARD P. FOLEY 'GO, a daughter, Megan Ann. .Mav 13. .Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD PHILIP FARLEY "61, a son, Edutird Philip Jr.. Mar. 30. -Mr. and -Mrs. JAMES .MILTON "61, a .son, James John. June 21. Mr. and Mrs. RO.XALD L. SA.MI-SON '61. a .M>n, Ronald Kevin, .-Vpr. 15. Lt. and Mrs. DENNIS J. McLAUCIILI.X '62, a daughter. Lauren. Mav 14. Mr. and Mis. TIM CONDON '63. a son. Temiice Ward, -March 20. .Mr. and .Mrs. PHILIP RYAN "63, a son, Patrick Michael. June 26. .Mr. and .Mrs. W. -MARQUIS AXDERSOX '64, a danghler, .Anne Marie, June 12. .Mr. and .Mrs. DAVE ELLIS '64, a daughter, Margaret .-\nn. Mav 17. .Mr. and .Mrs. BRIAX McCAX-X "63. a .son, Michael Patrick, June 19. -Mr- and -Mrs. DEXXIS STEROSKY '63L, a daughter, Denise Marie, .-Xpr. 22. 
SYMPATHY 
JOSEPH LaFORTU.XE Class of '16 and member of the University's Board of Lay Trmtees on the death of his brother. Louis, Mav 12. 
RICHARD McCARTY '22 on the death of bis sister, Apr. 20. 
J.-\MES M. PE.ARSON '26 on the death of bis motlier, Mav 17. Rev. JAMES'.McSHANE SJ '28 on the death of his mother, June 3. MICKEY -McMAHON '29 on the death of hU inolbcr. ROBERT P. LONERG.-\.X '43 on the death of bis svife, Lorraine. .-Vpril 13. FR;\NK. FI"rZGlBBONS '45 on ihc death of h"is father, June. ROBERT E. HEN.XEBRY '49 on the death of his father. LOUIS HOYI.XG '49 on the death of bis mother, Mav 27. PHILIP J. FACCEXDA '51 on the deailis of his father and mother. Mas- 15. HOW.ARD II. FEX.X '51 on the death of bU father, June 16. SER.APniNO C. DeLUCIA '52 on the death of bis wife, Joan, April 11. JA.MES F. GALLiXGHER '53 on the death of his son, James, Mav 10. 
J. EM.MET ROOT '55 on the death of his father, March 14. WILLIA-M McNALLY '39 on the death of bis father. -April 14. WILLIA.At F. FLY-X.N JR- '39 on the death of his father in March. 
S"rEVEN A. WEIDNER '62 on the death of his mother, .-\pril 27. 
DEATHS 
ROBERT KUERZE '00, Cincinnau. June 12. 
MAURICE COONEY '02, Chicago, Aug. 18, 
1965. 
EARL F. CRUDER LLB '05, Frankfort, Ind., June 1. He was a practicing attorney until his reiircnient si-vcral years ago. He is survived by his uidou- and three sisters. 
IIARRV J. GEOGHEG.-\X '06, Gary, Ind. A Monogram winner, he is survived bv his widow, 
DANIEL M. DONOVAN' '08. North Tona­wanda. N.V., May 29. He was a member of the original facuity of Gaskill Junior High School, Niagara Falls and was the oldest member of the ND Chib of Buffalo. He is survived by his widow and son. 
CH.VRLES LEO.N DeLU.NDEN '09, Strombcck Bcver, Belgium. 
EDUWRD K. DEL.\.\A (Litt B '11), Eranston, III,, May 7. He is sur\-ived by his widow, two daughters and a son. 
OLIVER L. GAHA.XT '11, West Brooklyn, 111.. June 4, 
Dr. GUILLERMO PATTERSON JR. '11, Panama City, Panama, May II, 1954. He is survived by his widotv. 
C. FRANCIS DIXO.V '12, Clean*tiler. Fla., 
June. FRED H. .MEIFELD '12, Frankfort, Ind., May 
6. Since 1927 he was a senior member ol the Meifeld Brothers Insurance and Real Estate Co. He is survived bv his widow and a brother, Paul '17. 
RICHARD V. BL-AKE LLB '13, Brookl>-n, N.Y., Mav 2. He is surx'ived by his widow. JAMES 0'HAR.\ LLB '13, Chicago, III., April 
20. He is survived by his widow, a daughter, and two sons. FR,\NCIS M. O'HEARX LLB '13, Evanston. 111., April 18. He is survix'ed bv his widow-. 
NORMA.V C. BARTHOLO.MEW '15, Iron Mountain, Mich., May 14. .-\ monogram winner in track, he retired from managerial duties at the Commercial Insurance Agency a year ago. He is survived by his widow, a daughter and a sister. 
Dr. FR.-\NK J. Q-DONNELL '17, Alpena, Mich. He is survived bv his widow. 
CL.-\RENCE H. BROUN CE '18. Fort Lauder­dale, Fla.. Mav 5. He is survived bv his widow. Dr. PETER H. MAKIELSKI '21,' Mishawaka, 
Ind.. Mav 19. LAURENCE A. WALL.\CE '21, Chicago, 111., Auv. 28. 1964. He is survived bv his sister. 
HENRY C, 2ICKGR.\F '21, San Diego, Calif., May 26. He is survived by hts widow, a son and a daughter. 
J. ROY DEE '23, Mt. Carmcl, III.. April 10. Mayor of Mount Cirniel from 1955 to 1959, he wxis reelected in 1963. He was foimder of the Wabash Valley .-\s.sociation in 1957 and its president until 1963 when he was named chairman of the board. He is sur\-ived by his widow, a brother, and his son. 
Bro. WILLIAM MANG CSC (Litt B '23), AtLstin. Tex.. .April 27. He had scr\'ed on the Council of the .Xlidwest Province at Notre Dame and in 1950 to 1956 he served in Rome as an assistant superior of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. At the time of his death he was chairman 
ALUMNUS JULY ]966 AUGUST 

of tlie Di\*ision of Teacher Education at St. Edtvard's Univcrsit\-. He is sur\-ivcd by two sisters and a brother. 
DANIEL 0'SULLI\^\X JR. '23, Mound City, IIL, June 26, 1965. At the time of his death he was serving as assodatc judge of the First Circuit Court of Illinois, a post which he held since 1951. He is sumvcd by hts brothers Dr. George '24 and Judge Albert '18. 
LEO VAX TILBURY LLB '24, Mishau-aka, Ind., May 22. He was a prominent city attorney who served under several administrations. He was also a founder of the Misliawaka Conservation Club. He is survived by his second wife, a son, a stepson and two sisters. 
GERALD C. LUDWIG '28, Kalamazoo, Mich., Afay 9. He is surx-ived by Iiis widovv, a son, Phillip *60, and a daughter. 
JOHN PATRICK MURPH\' '28, Fort Smith, Ark., May 17. He was past president of the ND Club of Fort Smith and had been active in Foundation Wbrk. He was sales manager for tlie Commercial Equipment Co. He is survived by his widow and a daughter. 

JAMES QUIGLEY '28. Chicago, May I. A noted artist and designer, he was at ND for two years before leaving to continue his studies at the Sorbonnc. 
R.\Y.MOND M. HILLIARD '29, Chicago, July 

4. Widely known for his work as a welfare ad­ministrator he held the position of the Cook County public aid director for 12 years; was past head of the Illinois and New York Cit>' u'elfare departmcnts. He also served on the board of directors of the National Council of Christians and Jews; as a director of the Chicago Urban League; as past president of the Illinois Welfare Assn. He is survived bv his wido\\' and tvvo sons. 
PATRICK JOSEPH H.ASTINGS '30, North­boro, Mass., May 5. He is survived by his widow. 

ALBAN A. LEYES '31, Chevy Chase, Md., June 29, 1964. 
FRANCIS ^L LONEY '31, Cincinnati, 0., April 20. He is survived by his widow, two sons and a daughter. 
PATRICK F. MURRAY '31, Richmond Hill, N.Y., Marcli 30. 
WILLIAM KNOX '33, Evanston, 111., June. The president of Knox-Schncider. Inc. he was past president of the Midwest Paper Assn. and a member of the National Papers Trades Assn. He is survived by his widow, two sons and a daughter. 
JOHN R. WI.VTERBOTTONf '35, San Cle­mente, Calif., April 26, 1965. He is survived by his widow. 
JOH.\ L. O'HERN '37, Odessa, Tex., May 27. He v^-as vice-president of the American Bank of Commerce, Odessa, and an active civic worker. At the time of his death he was president of the Notre Dame Club of Midbnd-Odcssa. He is survived by his widow and three sons. 
FRANK J. O'LAUGHLIN '38, Wilmette, III., June 21. President of the Commander Mfg. Co., he was a member of the boards of St. Mar>*'s College, St. Joseph's Home for tlie Friend­less and the Catholic Charities of Chicago. Sur­viving him arc his v*idow, a son and a daughter. 
JOHN J. O'CONNELL '39, Indianapolis, April 

29. He is survived by his mother and sister. JOHN B. McKEON *48, Denver, Colo., June 
3. He u-as vice-president in charge of marketing and new business at the Denver U.S. National Bank and, also, v\-3S active in various civic oT;ganizations. He is survived by his widow, a son and a daughter. 
JOSEPH B. WOERTH. JR. '49, Solon, Ohio, May, 1965. Dr. LOUIS A. REICH '51, Birmingham, Ala., Feb. 18. He v\'as killed in an auto accident. 
Bro. JAMES GORMAN CSC (MA '56) Au-tln. Tec., May 23. At the time of his death he was director of the Alumni Assocbtion at St. Edward's 
U. He had served as an instructor in journalism and as director of sports publldty from 1948-51 at the university. He is survived by a sister and four brothers. 
JOSEPH B. KILLUN '58 LLB '64, Akron. Ohio, May 16. He is survived by his widow and two sons. 
SISTER M. FRANCELINE AVILLIAMS CSC MA '58, Anderson, Ind., May 16. RICHARD F. WILLIAMS '66, Cincinnati, June 
24. A June graduate, he was on a trip to Florida when he v%-as struck fay a car and killed while changing a flat tire. 
REV. JAMES P. McGARVEY, Dacca, E. P^lstan, May U. 
FACULTY AND STAFF DEATHS 
REV. ^VILLIAM M. McNA­
^L\RA CSC '17, professor of 
historj-, died May 14 at age 
71 in Holy Cross House where 
he had lived in retirement since 
1961. He was ordained in 
June, 1922 and taught history 
from that year till 1930 when 
he left to do graduate study 

at Catholic Univcisity. He served as superior of Holy Cross Seminarv- from 1931 to 1934 when he began his 27-year tenure on the history faculty as a specialist in .-Vmerican history, Amer­ican diplomatic historv-, and the Civil War and Reconstruction periods. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
WALTER L CLEMENTS M4 
Tower BIdg., 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
REU.MOX REGISTRANTS 

J. B. MORAX *06, Wif. SCHMTTT *10, ED­WARD FIGEL '11, FRED L. STEERS '11 and WALTER CLENfEXTS '14. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES B.-\.AB recently cele­brated their golden-plus v^tdding annivcrsar>*. On June 7 tlie Baabs had been married 55 years. They have three sons, a daughter, 11 grandchil­dren and three great-grandchildren. 
Feu* people may know that Charlie has been influential in initiating several practices that have long been considered Boy Scout tradition. The Scoutmaster's Benediction, used at the closing of meetings, can be traced back to 1920 when at the suggestion of ^f5gr. Goeckel, Charlie submitted his idea to the National Council. The quartcnnaster position and insignia is another of his ideas that won national acceptance. 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 
117 Sunset Ave., 
LoGrange, III. 60525 
REUNION REGISTRANT RAYMOND KELLY. 
I regret to report that a corrected list of the members of the Class of '15 places the following names on the ^'Deceased" portion: DENNIS MORAN, Sheffield, Mass.; OWEN MURPHY, New York City; ALFRED H. RICKER, St. Louis, ^fo. We have also been advised that NORMAN 
C. 3ARTHOLO.MEW passed away on May 14. He resided at 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron Moun­tain, Mich. 
"Eternal rest grant unto them, O Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon them; may they rest in peace.'* 
Latest word from the University indicates that the annual Alumni Fund for 1966 is prosresslng vfr>' well. It is particularly gratifying to learn that the response so far from members of the 1915 Class is verj' good. You may be sure that the University has a very sincere respect for any gift, large or small, from an Alumnus. .As stated in my letter of May 31, it is important to re­member that the high percentage of alumni giving i^ recognized nationally as an example of alumni Iov*aliy, understanding and support. Tliis fact alone is ver>* important in winning non-alumni support. 
— ALBERT KUHLE, Secretary 

1916 
GROVER F. MILLER 
220 9th St., Racine, Wis. 53403 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 11 
REUXIOX REGISTRANTS" 

JAKE ECKEL, DUCH FREUND, TIMOTHY GALVI.N'. RAY HUMPHREYS. LOUIS KEIFER, RAYMOND McADAMS, PATRICK .\ULONEY, EDWARD MARCUS, GROVER MILLER, AL­BERT SCHLIPF. 
 1917 EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, III. 60121 
REUNION' REGISTRANTS FRED L. MAHAFFEY, LEO D. O'DONNELL, LEO VOGEL and BERNARD J. VOLL. 
1918 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, III. 60647 
Suiprise a classmate. Send a birtliday greeting card: Aug. 8, ALVLN H. BERGER '15, R.R. NO. 2, SturgU, Mich. 49091; Aue. 9, FRANK B. MARSHALL, 2612 Washington Ave., Santa Mon­ica, Cal.; Aue. IS, JAMES F. HANLON, I53I St. Paul St., Denver, Colo. 30206. Aug. 22, THOMAS J. MOTT Jr., 511 W. Summer Ave., Spokane, Wash. 992(H; Aug. 27, JOHN L. REUSS, 909 Orlando Dr., Ft. Wayne, Ind.; Sepl. 3, LOUIS H. FOLLET, 1303 W. Oak St., Nor­ristou-n. Pa. 19401; Sept. 8. W^L E. BRADBURY '16, Robinson, III. 
RECAPITULATION OF FAMILY TREE CARDS 
Grand-Bo>'S Girls children Chas. W. Call 1 1 4 
G. W. Harbcrt 4 _ 4 Louis H. Helbert _ I 3 Louis Follet 2 3 7 Allan W. Fritzsche 1 I 4 John A. Lcmmer _ _ _ Max. Kazus _ 2 6 E. J. Kenny Jr. 3 1 8 Willbm H. Kelley 2 3 20 Tom King 1 _ 2 Jim Logan 1 3 16 Wm. Brecn McDonald _ 2 9 Leonard F. Mayer 3 1 6 
W. J. 'Pelt' Noonan I 1 6 Tom O'Mcara _ _ _ Albert S. O'Sulliran 3 _ _ John L. Rcuss 1 _ 10 Peter J. Ronchetti _ _ _ Lambert 'Bert' Seng 2 2 14 
E. Norric Starrctt .. I 3 James L. Sweeney 2 3 13 "Whitei-" Whalen _ _ _ John J. Voelkers 2 3 9 Geo. Waage Still Single 
We hope to hear from every one of you *18ere. Will add late arrivals to ne.Kt report. Keeping 'chit chat' for ne.xt time. So long. MAY YOU LIVE TO BE A HUNDRED. 
— GEORGE WAAGE, Secretary 

1919 
THEODORE C. RADEMAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN 
170 Moybroolc Rd., 
Rochester, N.Y. 14618 
REU.XION REGISTRANT SHERWOOD DIXON. 
1921 
DAN W. DUFFY 1030 Natl. City E. 6th BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 12 
REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS 

A. R. ABRAMS, WILLIAM S. ALLEN, JO­SEPH BRANDY, ANTHONY T. BRAY, BER­NARD R. CARNEY, DAN DUFFY, D. C. GRANT, JAMES H. HUXFORD, LEO D. KELLEY, CHARLES KING, CALLIX -MILLER, 
R. J. SCHUBMEHL, WILLIAM J. SHERRY, JOSEPH TILLMAN, GEORGE C. WITTERIED, MARK ZI.MMERER. 
ALUMNUS JULY 19«6 AUGUST 
1922 

G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
REUNION REGISTRANT GEORGE G. KERVER. Our sympathy is extended to RICARD Mc-
CARTY of Canton, Ohio, on the death of his beloved sister, Mrs. Adelaide M. Lynch, of the same city who died April 20 as a residt of a massive stroke. For your writing convenience Ricard's address is as follows: 2812 Harvard Ave. NW, Canton, Oliio 44709. 
Your secretary recently had a grand visit with the ARTHUR SHEAs of Grecnwicli, Conn. A Shea son. Tommy, was graduated in June from Colgate U. and was married in his home city on June 18. We have no further details to give you at present. Art's daughter graduated from Smith College. 
Miss Amelia Mac Jones, daughter of R. GER­ALD JOXES and Marion, now deceased, yvas the bride of Lt. David William Muris of the US Air Force in her home city of San Mateo, Cal., on June 1. 
VINCENT HANRAHAN is still on the move doing special escort duty for the US State Dept. He was last sighted, June 2, in Los Angeles with a gentleman from Kcn)^!. The Hanralians are hoping to take a September trip to the Medi­terranean and visit the countries bordering thereon. 
Earl McKee — only son of our classmate HAROLD of happy mcmorj* and wife Ellen, presently residing in Chicago — is now connected wiili the legal group of Mayer, Friedrich, Spiess, Tierney, Brown and Piatt located at 231 South LaSallc St. Earl is married and has four children. 
This is the verj* first call for our 45th Reunion to be celcbmtcd on the campus next June. It is no problem whatsoever getting certain regulars to attend, they just would not think of missing a reunion. The best thing that could happen for our 45th Reunion would be the reappearance of those faces that have been missing for many years. All of our reunions have been successful from the standpoint of attendance and interest. This is no time to break the chain. Start planning right now to attend our 45th. 
— G. "KID " .-\SHE, Secretary 
1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER }667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, 
South Bend, Ind. 466}6 
REU.NION REGISTRANT PAUL CASTNER. It's not every retiree whose retirement gets the 
accolades accorded that of two of our classmates, CLIFFORD B. W.\RD of Fort Wa>-nc, Ind., and MURR/\Y POWERS of Akron, Ohio. The May 27 issue of the Fort Wayne News-Sentinel reported ClifTs action, appropriately accompanied by photos. In ClifTs personal column "Good Eve­ning" he himself indites his valedictory with the announced intention of spending his retirement in purse-snatching, safe-robbing and moonshining. And "if these things get boring wc will fish, golf and travel, the Lord willing." 
Two days before the above news release the Akron Beacon-Journal carried a feature story on MURR.\Y POWERS' retirement from the B-J, of which he has been managing editor for 17 years, and an employee for 32 of the 44 years he spent in Journalism. The story of Murray's staff man recounts many interesting sidelights on Mur­ray's career, ending with the quip **Journalism is a very human kind of business. It was bound to attract a very human man." Murray will continue to spend one day a tvcek teaching journalism at Kent State U. as he has for the last 26 years. 
Congratulations to both outstanding '23 men on their successful careers. 

It is pleasant for this correspondent to report «;i<"h matters which, momentarily at least, outweigh J^YSC steady stream of obituaries in the news col­
•* timns of our older Alumni. Some of these deaths may have been reported previously, but to make sure there arc no omissions wt report: 
J. STANLEY BRADBURY LLB, state's attorney of Crawford County, 111., died in Robinson, III., ^fay 2, after a brief illness with lung cancer. His widow and his brother, WILLIAM E. BRADBURY LLB '16 arc the only close relatives surviwng. 
BROTHER WILLIAM MANG CSC, chairman of the Division of Teacher Education at St. Ed­ward's U., died April 29. He had celebrated his 50th jubilee as a Hoy Cross Brother in June, 1964. 

Cause of his death is not known to me. 
J. ROY DEE, O.S. '19-'20, died April 10, ac­cording to meager information reaching me from the Alumni Office. A Class questionnaire which I circulated some years ago elicited from Roy the information that his son attended ND in 1949. 
JOSEPH P. HENNEBERRY, a popular member 
of the Class, died January* 25 in his home, 1331 
North Shore Avenue, Chicago. Joe had retired last 
year from his work as salesman for a Chicago 
paint manufacturing company. 
DANIEL O'SULLIVAN JR. PhBC, brother of 
ALBERT S. O'SULLIVAN '18, died June 26, 
1965 according to belated information which 
reached this desk late in May of this year. Fur­
ther details are not as yet available. The surviv­
ing brother's addreM is given as 513 Warren Ave­
nue, BeMdcre, III. 
Details of such deaths have been going for\%*ard 
to our '23 men in your secretary's periodic news­
letters, as is the assortment of chitchat about 
classmates which editorial pleas for brevity keep 
crowding out of these columns. Alumni of tlic 
early-Twenties era who want more information on 
any '23 men, living or dead, are invited to write 
to me. 
—LOUIS V. BRUGGNER, Secretary­

1924 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
1925 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, Ohio 43606 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

JOHN A. BARTLEY and ROBERT GORDON. 
Your secretary is "back home in Indiana" now 
covering both the Hoosier and Buckeye stales. In 
Fort Wayne, I ran into HERMAN CENTLIVRE 
at Mass. He looks fine and is retired. He manages 
to keep busy reading and %vriting about his favorite 
subject *'economic5 and finances." In a restaurant 
I saw another '25er, T. HAROLD MOYLAN. 
Harold is a practicing lawyer. He li%-es at 215 E. 
Lewis, just in case you need to be bailed out of 
jail in that fine Indiana town. I teamed that ED­
DIE BAKER is a big wheel with Ekrich Co. in 
Fort Wayne. MAURICE BOLAND, who lias been 
with the Internal Revenue service for years, is 
now ^ith the Indiana Dept. of Revenue. So 
MAURIE can help you out with your tax prob­
lems whether it is state or federal. BOB GOR­
DON is practicing law and lives at 915 Nelson St. 
A few ^vecks ago I received a telephone call from 
ED ASHE who was in the Toledo area on busi­
ness. Ed came out to the house and we had a 
wonderful visit. He really looks great and talked 
with pride of his grandchildren. Ed lives at 134 N. 
Anita Ave., Los Angeles. This week while in In­
dianapolis I talked to MIKE DUFFECY '26. He 
sounds real chipper and, last fall wlien I saw him 
at a football game, he seemed to have that fame 
"old pepper." In the past month you received 
letters from two distinguished members of our 
Class, AL PORTA, who is our Deferred Giving 
C1.1SS .Agent, and HANK WURZER, our Class 
Agent for the Annual Alumni Fund. Let's lake 
care of these activities. I'm sure after reading both 
of these letters, you responded to action. We were 
third in 1965, and if "progress is our most im­
portant product" for the Class of '25, we should 
do better in '66. Keep up the good giving, fcllou's! 
—JOHN P. HURLEY, Secretary 

1926 
J. N. GEISON Gelson & Lowell, Inc. 200 East 42nd St. New York, N.Y. 10017 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 12 

REU.MON REGISTRANTS PAUL .\BEL, WILLIAM R. BARR, .ARTHUR 
J. BIDWILL, THOM.VS A. BURKE, LES CLARKE, DA.\IEL COUGHLIN, CLE.M CROWE, FRANK DEITLE, ROBERT J. DOLE­Z;\L, GEORGE DOL.\tAGE. WILLIA^i DOR­G.AN, J.WIES DRISCOLL, JAMES F. DWYER, HERBERT EGGERT, THO.\fAS FARRELL, ROMAN C. FELDPAUSCH, WILLIAM FOO­HEY, LOUIS G. FRANKE, J. NORBERT GEL­SON, RUDY GOEPFRICH, ART HALEY, AUS­TIN HALL, EDWARD F. HARGAN, JERRY HAYES, CHARLES HEINTZ, DANIEL KELLY, FRANCIS A. KLEIN, HAROLD KLEIN, iUL ­COLM KNAUS, HAL KRAUSER, C. A. LA­FOLLETTE, GERALD V. McDERMOTT, JERRY McGINLEY, CHARLES P. MARGUET, CHARLES E. MASON, MARK E. MOONEY, FRANCIS NEES, DANIEL O'NEILL, DENNIS O'NEILL, STEVE PIETROWICZ, CLAUDE M. PITSENBERGER, L L PROBST, MICHAEL REDDINGTON, JERRY REIDY, JOSEPH L. RIGALI, JAMES RONAN, JOHN J. RYAN, ROBERT H. S.MITH, VINCENT SOISSON, JA.MES STACK, ART SUDER, HOWARD WEIMERSKIRK, BERNARD K. WINGERTER. 
1927 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River St., Aurora, III. 60504 
REUNION REGISTRANTS ROBERT IRMIGER and EDWARD MC­LAUGHLIN. 
1928 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 68-10 108th St., Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375 
REU.MON REGISTRANTS PATRICK CANNY, PHILIP CENDELLA, JOHN F. FREDERICK and FRANCIS MEYER. 
AL DAVIS advised me of the death of GERALD LUDWIG on May 9 in Kalamazoo, Mich. He is 5ur\ived by bis wife, a son, Philip '60 and a daughter. Gerald attended our reunions regularly but spent only a few hours with us at our 33th because, as he put it, of his "bum ticker." 
ED RAFTER and JOHN IGOE reported the sudden death of JIM QUIGLEY. Chicago artist and designer, on May 1 from a heart attack. Jim, who completed his art studies at the Sorbonne in Paris, had won international awards for his interior designs. His most noted work was a mural depicting Lincoln's inaugural ball, cie­cuted for the State House Inn in Springfield. Ed Rafter visited the funeral home. Jim had been dead about 30 hours when found seated In a chair with a book in his hands in his apartment. Jim was with our Class from '24 to *26. 
VINCEN'T CAREY died in Yakima, Wash., on Mar. 20 from a coronary. He is survived by his wife, a son, Kevin '65, and another son, a graduate of Gonzaga. Vince was an auditor with the Washington state tax commission. 
JOHN LEITZINGER informed us of the death of JOHN PATRICK MURPHY of Fort Smith, Ark., on May 17 of a heart attack while working in his flower garden. John is sur\'ived by his wife and daughter. He was sales manager for the Commercial Equipment Co., a food ser\*ice equipment supplier. John had been active in the XD Club, the ND Foundation campaigns and the Subicco HS Alumni Association. He had advised me recently of the death of OSKAR RUST. 
Masses were arranged by our treasurer, JOE LANGTON, for these classmates. 
The Catholic Press Association of the US and 
Canada gave its highest 1966 honor to JOE 
BREIG, columnist and associate editor of the 
Cleveland Catholic Uniaerse Bulletin. Joe was 
given the CPA's annual special award for "out­standing contributions to Catholic journalism." ND Man of the Year awards went to A. GOR­DON BENNETT, general manager of the Courier Express in Buffalo, to Judge ROBERT GRANT in South Bend and to JOE KINNEARY in Co­lumbus, Ohio. MARTY RYAN sent a clipping with a picture of .GEORGE CONNER who was named Stan of the Year by the Ni^ara Frontier .Advertisers Association. Please let me know if have missed any other classmates who recehred honors recently. 
ED QUINN is making plans for our 11th annual '28 Class party at ND followring the Army game on Oct. 8. You ^vill be advised of the loca­tion in a special mailing. Plan to attend this get-together of '28 men, thrir families and friends. 
The remaining part of this column was written by our Class president, BERN GARBER. 
BILL DWYER, lamenting the increasing '28 deaths, commends SHEIBLEY's Commtmion Sun­day idea (urges continued and greater participa­tion) and Masses for our deceased. Bill attended Junior-Parents Weekend — "inspiring" — as he has 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

a son in the Class of '67 with ANTUS's, FISCH­ER'S and CAREER'S sons. Bill and RAY JIUL­
NOTRE DAME AUTHORS: 
LIGAX report these men at Chicago UXD night: 
JOHN RICKORD, ED R.\FTER, RAV MULLI­GAN, JOHN LYONS. BOB TROTTER, BER­NARD KORZEN, BILL KEARNEY, GEORGE 
Book 
A ^VHALE OF A TEKKITOKY, The Story of Bill O'Neil, by Den­nis J. O'NeiU '26. McGraw-Hill Book Co., N.Y. 
This is a biography of one of Amer­ica's industrial giants, the founder of General Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, O. 
It is written by Dennis J. O'Neill '26, no relation to the family of the book. As creative head of D'Arcy Advertising in Cleveland, Dennis O'Neill worked for 20 years with Bill O'Neil on the General Tire ad­vertising program. This rich associ­ation and inside knowledge of both company and man are reflected in the book. More than that, the author is himself one of a Notre Dame dynasty begun by his father, William P. O'Neill '06, and including a degree-holding nun-sister, and third-generation Notr e Dam e O'Neills. Denny was himself editor of the 1925 Dome^ and journalistic history was made on campus when Dennis Jr. edited the Dome in 1950, a quarter of a century later. The book is a stimulating story of a great Catholic family against the backgroimd of American free enter­prise. Bill O'Neil and two other brothers attended Holy Cross College. A fourth brother, ITiomas F., at­tended Notre Dame, and was an outstanding alumnus until his death in 1943. JEA 
 Notes 

THE CHURCH AND THE WORK­
INGJIAN, by Msgr. John Cronin 
SS and Harry W. Flannery '23. 

Hawthorn Books, Inc., New York. This new volume is Volume 104 in the Twentieth Century Encyclopedia of Catholicism. Monsignor Cronin, assistant director of the Department of Social Action in the NCWC, treats the Church's doctrine on the rights of the workingman. In the second half of the book, Flannery traces the history of the Church and the workingman since the In­dustrial Revolution. His emphasis is on the US in the 20th century, but includes material on the changes in the conditions of the workingman in England, Germany and France. Flannery, an outstanding campus journalist, went on to become an international news commentator, serving as the Berlin network com­mentator at the start of World War 
n. He is presently in charge of the radio programs of the AFL-CIO out of Washington. The book is a compact (159 pp) articulate presen­tation of vital material in this im­portant area of Catholic sociail action. JEA 
.Wa.AUGHLLV, CHARLIE SCHUESSLER, PHIL QUINN, HOWARD PHALIN, H.ANLEY MURPHY, JOHN WOULFE, JOE GRIFFIN, JOHN CAVAXAUGH, DICK QUINLA.\, BOB WINTER and BOB GR.\HAM. 
Absent were ED McKEOX, toastni.i5tcrin5 a St. Procopius College dinner, and DICK PHE­LAX, conv-alescing after six weeks in the hospital. BILL HANLEY MURPHY sold his Chicago home and b living now at Edwardsburg, ^licli., up Nilcs Rd. from ND (1968 Reunion committee?) 
"Count me in." !nys Dw\'er, "with those con­gratulating JOHN CARLIN and his wife on the ordination of their son John to the priesthood." Fitft Mass was said on M-iy 11 in the cathcdial in Salina, Kan. In his letter Bill mentioned **Big John" Murphy and the hope of getting him back for a reunion (John's death came a few da>'S later). 
From ART DE.\CHFIELD, e-xecutive director of international affairs for the Miami-Dade County Chamber of Commerce and executive vice-president of the Chamber of Commerce of the Americas: "COURY, LEPPIG and I believe we will be around lor the 60th Class Reunion in 1988; per­haps, we'll have the 72nd Reunion here in Miami." Dench's '28 visitors included GUS GRAMS, FRANK DO.XOVAN, Fr. JI.M Mc-SHAXE, CHUB GRAF and RUSSELL SMITH. 
Dr. JOHN A. GOCKE of Los Anjeles i.riccs he saw Mary and BILL DOWDALL in Fcbruar>­on their return from the islands. John and Carolv-n tiave seven children (two in high school) and six grandchildren. 
Rita and CHRISTIE FL.-\.VAGA.V vrtnt to Europe in May. Christie Jr. is married, has one flaughter and is a hwv-er in Houston. Second son, Bruce, a bachelor, is in business with his father. Christie's two daughters married XD men and have 4 children each. 
In April DICK GREEXE. Muncie newsman, talked with me, STEVE SHERRY and GEXE FARRELL while in New York City. Because of his hbtoncal v\Titings on Muncie and Delau'are County, Dick was made an honorary member of the Muncie Junior Chamber of Commerce; lie was also elected to Sigma Delta Chi. Dick and Mildred had a 40-day trip around the world in June-July. 
Marion and BOB H.\MILTOX"s daughter took her final vows Easier week at Ma>-wood in Scr^n­ton, Pa., as Sr. St. Bemadctte IHM. Daughter Kathleen, with four children, is working on her master's at Queens College; and active as Republi­can district captain of Roslyn, Long Island. Youngest daughter Mary is a Junior at Maywood. Bob keeps Pan Am supply channels open — favors a Class trip to Bermuda. 
Laura and GEORGE KELLEY, recently wed, led a Youngstown Vindicator tour group to Europe in April and' May. 
DICK QUIXL.AX, visiting Los .Angeles, covldn't reach JOHX W.ALLACE but talked to MORT GOODifAX', successful at law. Dick expects to retire soon and live in either Fort Wa>-ne or Delray Beach, Fla. He reports JOE DORAX, now retired, is back in Lafavette. Also talked with BOB MOHLMAN, who is feeling better now. 
-XORB SEI.VDEXSTICKER is huilding a home near Pinchurst and Southern Pines, N.C., and expects to move there in 1967. 
LARRY CULLIXEY. while safeguarding Xew-England banks, saw JOE FR.AXCIS a-\XXOX, Rutland Co. clerk, and in Milton, Vt., met his old friend J. CLINTON RYAX ex '26 who encouraged Larry to decide on going to ND. Larry requests "honorary membership in the Class of '28" for Clint. Granted, B.C., president! 
Our sympathy to ED DEAX upon his father's death in April, and to Father JIM McSH.'^XE SJ upon the death of his mother on June 3. 
—LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, Secretary 

1929 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, (nd. 46556 
REUNION REGISTRAN'TS JAMES CURRY, WALTER MULFLLTR and CLETUS P. SCHNEIDER. 
Immediately after the Army gamCj Oct. 8, join your classmates for a get-together in the engi­neering building. 
A gifted few have the ability to express in 
ALUMNUS JUIV 1966 AUGUST 

words what is felt in the heart. One such per­
son is JIM GALLAGHER, 366 W. Aft. Airy 
Ave., Philadelphia. If he will consent to be 
your Class secretary I uill gladly yield my responsi­
bilities to him. By clianging a few words in what 
follou*s, each of us could pay tribute to someone 
dear to us. Jim was writing to the friends of his 
beloved wife, E\*a, recently deceased. In doing 
so he reveals much of himself. I beg his forgive­
ness for quoting a few excerpts without having 
asked hts permission. I wanted to be certain 
that >'ou could read his sincere tribute. 
*'She brought with her laughter and love and 

intense au*arcness of the joy of living. When she 
entered a room it came ativc. In her presence 
we felt the compelling urgency to live each hour 
— fully, immediately, gaily; savoring joy and sor­row as equal expressions of God's will. 
"Kindness was her creed; forgiveness her hall­

mark. She was human and felt frustration, re­
sentment and rage like all the rest of us. But in 
33 years I ne\"er knew her to let the sun rise on 
remembered anger. 
"Unkindness and cruelly were to her tlic only 

real sins. She had a vast tolerance for the frail-
tics and follies and infirmities of people; nt tiine:^ 
it seemed she loved everj'body, but the cruel, the 
unkind and the hard of heart she avoided. 
"Hers wtis a divine capacity for friendship. In 

this cold age, when most of us don't want to be 
'involved' she cared. The faceless people around 
us . . . the chain-store checker, the postman, the 
carwasher, the laundromat attendant . . . were 
not faceless to her. Nor did she suffer from tliat 
perverse snobbery* which ignores the wealthy and 
important as unneedful of friendship. Bishops, 
ambassadors, corporation presidents and a prime 
minister arc numbered among the great and near-
great on her incredible list of those with whom 
she corresponded; whose anniversaries and birtli­
da>-s she remembered; who got her little gifts 
and nonsense cards. 
"She had a tender and understanding love for 
litde children; she cherished the old, with a 
special, amused svTnpathy for the eccentrics and 
the queer ones; she rejoiced in the companion­
ship of her own generation; but her great, 
passionate love afTair was with young people. She 
loved their freak hair-dos, their skin-tight pants, 
tiicir odd-ball ways, ihcir confusions, their aspira­
tions. 
"Unostentatious about religion, she liad vritliin her deep wells of faith inherited from Iier French-Canadian forebears. Not many da>-s passed when she did not visit a church, to pray for the gift of kindness. And she lived her religion. I never heard her preach of integration, but she chose to live in a parish with Negroes as her neighbors and friends; I never heard her prate of tolerance, but among her friends she numbered Buddhists, Hindus, Jews and agnostics. 
"Her gaiety, her blitheness, her readiness for a frolic or a party masked a resolute efficiency* in all her activities. She never left a task undone, and yet she wus always ready to answer the call for volunteer work. . . . 
"It docs not fall to the lot of many of us to be remembered very long after v*'c have left the world. But I like to think tliat Eva will never really die as long as those of us who received the gift of her kindness will remember and pass it on to others; that each little act of love, like a stone dropped into the sea which stirs a ripple that never ceases to move, will generate new acts of love which will be an eternal tribute to her memory. 
"Eva Gallagher was a very* rare and special person.. To have known her was a privilege; to ha^'c loved her and lo know her love v\-as to feet the breath of immortality. 
"She would never want anyone to know sad­ness because of her. And to you, her friend, I repeat her loving thought: 
" 'Remember tlie happy limes.' " 
MICKEY McMAHOX writes, "Dear Larry, my mother passed av\tty and I would appreciate your including her in the ALUMNUS list requesting prayers. ... " 
JOE LENIHAN , Dr. GEORGE McDO.VNELL, HUGH McMANIGAL, JIM KENNEDY, JACK KEARNS, LOUIS HANEY and othere have sub­mitted class news. These v%ill appear in the next issue, thanks to each of you —and may your classmates please follow your example and for­vrord news of themselves and their fellow '29crs. Jim, Jack and your secretary had sons in the June graduating class. Tell us about your gradua­tions, weddings, promotions, changes of address. The editor limits our copy but Vd like to chal­lenge him to do so. 
— LARRY STAUDER, Secretary 

ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
1930 
DEVERE PLUNKEH O'Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
At the 30-Year Reunion of our Class in June 1960, a large number of the members created a loan fund for needy students. This fund is now $6847.50. By the recommendation of Rev, Jerome Wilson CSC, vice-president for business affairs, this money is now going to be assigned as an endorsement for much larger lending opportunities for our students. The foUomng letter explains this unusual arrangement: 
Dear Nfr. Plunkctt: 
Re: Cbss of 1930 Loan Fund 

It gives me great pleasure to accept from the Class of 1930 the 56,847.50 referred to in your letter of .April 4. I understand tliat the class would like this money to be used for loans to students with financial need. This means so very much to us, especially at this time. .As the Federal Govcmment is planning a phase-out of the direct loan prograni, we will need loan funds to aid needy students. 
I have discussed your wonderful gift with Rev. Jerome J. Wilson CSC, vice-president for business affairs, and he h.is given me approval to make use of your funds in the fol/oiring manner: 
The money will be deposited witli the United Student Aid Funds, Inc. Loan Program. .Auto­matically*, Notre Dame will receive an endorse­ment capacity of 1214 times the amount put in the fund. This will mean that your money will be worth 12!/= times the amount given us. We will be able to endorse loans for students from any state in tlie Union in which there is a participating lending institution. Currently, there are over 6,000 banks and lend­ing houses from which a student can borrow. Your money will be the collateral for the loans. Thus, your $6,847.50 becomes $85,593.75 in actual loans. 
You can sec that this will be a great boost for us. Please express our most sincere and deep appreciation to the Class of 1930 for this wonderful aid. 
With all good wishes, I am Very sincerely in Notre Dame, Brother Robert Slnnacvc CSC Director of Financial Aid 

I assume everyone received JACK ELDER's letter of May 31. Jack as our Class Agent for the Annual .-Mumni Fund, shows rather potnlcdly where the Class of 1930 has another good chance to break some records. 
J.ACK O'KEEFE sent in this note: "Regret be­ing unable to see you during recent very short stay on the campus. Attended son Pat's gradua­tion at Holy Cross Seminary* but had to get back here in a hurry* to attend double graduation at Holy Cross High School near here of daughter Eileen and niece Ellen. Will have three children on UND-SMC campuses this fall, the third time since I960 we will have been so honored; Mike will be a senior at ND, Pat will return as a freshman-seminarian, and Eileen will be a fresh­man across the Dbcie Hv\y. Thus, all four sons and three of five daughters will have enrolled at one of those institutions. We have had one or more within sight of the golden dome every semester since Sept., 1955. Many thanks for the personal interest you have taken in these young­sters. Hope to see you in September." 
JACK CANNON was not content merely to be In the Football Hall oi Fame^ He recently was selected for the Elks' Hall of Fame by the Ohio Elks .-Xsiociation. 
CHARLIE COLTO.V '29 of Taunton. Mass., dropped in with his son, John, who will be a freshman here next September. He had a feiv reminiscences about tlie days rooming with JACK ELDER and supervising those docile v%'aiters like Judge McDOUGAL, HAROLD STEINBOCHER, my brother, DON PLUNKETT, and others. 
JOHN T. MORAN has retired from Allstate and is now in law practice in Chicago. 
TIM TOOMEY is living with retired Lt. Com­mander W. J. WALSH (Willie the Whip) in Arlington, Va. Tim is with the Bureau of Em­ployment Security, Office of Farm Labor Service. He writes that Bill Walsh is senior civilian con­sultant on supplies and materials for the Navy Dept. 
In this edition or other copies of the .AtUMNus, notices liave been carried of the deaths of PATSY H.ASTINGS, FRANK DRISCOLL, FRANK ROONEY, BILL HALLISEY, ANDY LOVE, and of both the mother and wife of JOHN CASSIDY within three moatlis. Afembers of the Class of 1930 will remember them in our prayers. 
CHET ASHMAN wrote tliat things are great in Southeast Tennessee. His St. Piit's Church, for which he worked so hard over the years, has 300 members now and a fuU-limc priest. 
ART ERRA sent in a glowing report of Alumm activity out in the Valley of the Sun. 
Here at ND the Summer Session just got under way with the biggest enrollment c^'er, over 3800 students. Of this number, only about 300 are undergraduates. Besides summer classes, we also have here 2 units preparing for the Peace Corps, and 50 other high school youngsters from dis­advantaged families in a federally sponsored pro­gram UPWARD BOUND. 
So. there is lots of variety in summer activities on the campus. 
— DEVERE T. PLUNKETT, Secretary 

1931 
JAMES T. DOYLE 1567 Ridge Ave., Apt. 308 
Evansfon, III. 60201 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 13 

REUNION REGISTRANTS PHIL J. ANGSTEN, GERRY BALL, HOWARD 
C. BEASLEY. JAMES BIGGINS, NICK BOHL­ING, AUSTIN BOYLE, EARL BRIEGER, JOHN 
C. BURNS, FRANK BUTORAC, CHARLES CASHMAN, PETER CASTERLINE, RAYMOND COLLINS, CARL CRONIN, JEROME CROW­LEV, JOSEPH F. (JOE) DEEB, JOHN E. DEMPSEV. FRANK D'MUHALA, JAMES DOYLE, JOSEPH DUNNE, OLIVER F. FIELD, CLARENCE H. FUTTER, ALFRED GALL, BUD GIES, WILLL\M GINDER, JOSEPH GOLABOW­SKI, LOUIS GODOY, AL GRISTANI, LAW­RENCE H. HALTER, JOHN HANSON, FRANOS 
J. HOLLAND, GEORGE A. JACKOBOICE, LEO 
J. KLETZLY, ROBERT J. KUHN, JOHN F. LAUX, DANIEL C. LENCONI, CHARLES Mc-ALEER, BERNARD T. McGLONE, JOHN Mc-MURRAY, JAMES D. McQUAID, DONALD F. MacDONALD, ARTHUR -MARGRAF, BERT METZGER, CHARLES H. MILTNER, LARRY .MOLLER, THOMAS MONAHAN, JAMES L. MULVANEY, JAMES H. MURRAY, EARL J. O'BRIEN, GEORGE O'CONNOR, WARD O'CONNOR, WILLL«t O'MALLEY, JOSEPH 
V. O'ROURKE, LEW O'SHEA, DO.XALD O'TOOLE, GILBERT V. PERRY, WALTER F. PHILIPP, JUURICE REGAN, WALTER R. RIDLEY, JAMES A. RUDOLF, EDWARD B. RYAN, JACK SAUNDERS, ED SHEERAN, AL­FRED STEPAN, R. J. "SPIKE" SULLIVAN, DEON SUTTON, FRANK SVOBODA, JOHN WEIBLER, JOSEPH WETLI and DANIEL WIL­LIAMS. 
1932 
JAMES K. COLLINS 2982 Torrington Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
REUNION REGISTRANTS MICHAEL J. CARR, NORB CROWE, LEON­ARD DUNN and BILL NEWBOLD. 
A fine letter was received from Rev. TONY WEBER CSC who v.Totc that he is reporting in after many years as a missionary in India, Pakis­tan and Africa. 
He further wrote, "I would like to have the ND ALUMNUS sent to my new address in the heart at Texas at Box 103, Gatcsville, where I have been appointed pastor. 
"Lucky, too, to be Catholic chaplain at the nearby Gatesville School for Boys—the largest of its kind in the world with neariy 1,700 teen-agers. Do I need help? And how—by receiving in any way, shape or quantity lots of religious articles (ntsaries and medals) and literature, catechisms and pamphlets for my five hundred Catholic boys. Most of all, I need your prayers." 
Nfany letters were received following the an­nouncement of the deaths of HUGH B.ALL and JOHNNY PERONE. HERB GIORGIO said in part, "Needless to say, I wtis deeply grieved and I shall remember them in my prayers- Two more likeable fellows you do not meet often, if even I feci sure Johnny would have a story to tell the Lord that will make Him smile on both of them. 
25 

They will be sorely missed by all who had the 
good fortune to know them.*' 
RAY PFEIFFER writes, "As you know Hugh 

and I were vcty close at Xotrc Dame and corre­
sponded; he and Flo used to visit with us in 
Louisville when iJjcy were in the vjciniry. I was 
also shocked to hear of Johnny's death. Time 
is catching up with all of us." 
JACK RUDD sent a clipping about Johnny 

Pcronc and the bulletin from St. Luke's Churdi 
in Palm Beach listing the Mass he had arranged. 
Jack also wrote, "Well, John won't make our 
30th Reunion. We had a lot of laughs during 
die eight years I went to school with him, and 
only a few serious conversations. He enjoyed 
wiiat he did but felt some of us could have given 
him a hand in the engineering profession. I have 
heard more than one engineer in oar Class say 
tliat without his help they would never have 
made it through school. When you recall some 
of the so-called AIl-Americans we have cheered 
onward and upward, in my memory- he was the 
greatest." 
Many thanks to all of you for your fine letters; 

I know ^iiur comments will be welcomed by all of 
the Class. 
They also sent along some personal news. Herb 

writes, *'My life has changed in the past year — 
as >-ou may know I have remarried and am the 
father of Melissa bom Apr. 20, 1965 and Marj-
Grace was bom on Mar. 3, 1966. It is quite an 
experience being a father." Ray writes, ''For­
tunately, all the LouIs\ilIc gang of our Class are 
still plouing along and wc see each other occa­
sionally. I got out of the whiskey business after 
30 strenuous years and last year set up a business 
of my own — advertising and packaging programs. 
This is away from my college engineering course 
but I have found I enjoy developing programs, 
sales and advertising niucli belter.'' 
NICK RUGGING told me on a recent vbit 

that he was lianng a bus>- spring uith one daugh­
ter receiving an MA in English from Western 
Reserve, another daughter receiving an Ah de­
gree at Notre Dame College in Cfci'cland and 
his son also graduating from Xavicr U. in Cin­
cinnati. 
DICK FABRYCKI has sold hLs solvents busi­

ness in South Bend and Is now a consultant to 
his former supplying company. He said that this 
gives him more time for his big game hunting. 
FRANK O'MALLEY is doing a fine job as 

Class Agent for the Alumni Fund and you have, 
undoubtedly, heard directly from him. He ex­
pects to report later on just how it is progressing. 
Col. RE^U RENTER has been transferred from 

the Army Engineer's Canaveral district to assume 
duties as acting dix-ision engineer of the New 
England division. In this post he is responsible 
for all militar>' and civil works, and took a lead­
ing role in the March 19'dedication ceremonies 
of the Fox Point Hurricane Barrier In Providence, 
R.I. He was awarded the Legion of Merit for his work at Cape Kennedy and other Florida space agenc>- installations. He was in Cleveland recently visiting JERRY LI.V.V. 
IKE TERRY, oar esteemed president, is mak­ing arrangements for a Class get-together after the Pittsburgh game on Nov. 5. This is the Home­coming game and Ike expects a large crowd to be there. 
— JIM COLLINS, Secretary 

1933 
JOHN A. HOYT. JR. Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 100T7 
Wc learned with deep regret of the recent death of our classmates PHILIP A. RILEY of Ste. Gene%ie^'e, Mo., and MAURICE E. WEIGAND of Dover, Ohio. Both Phil and Maurice died in mid-April. "In Paradisi'm Dcducant Tc Angcll." 
Just as wc Went to press for the April edition of the ALUM.NIJS we learned that Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK F. CROWLEY were named recipients of the 1966 Lactare Medal. Tills Is the first time the University has ever bestowed this a^vard upon a husband and wife. To Pat and his charming wife, Patricia, wc extend sincere congratulations. As recipients of (he most signiJIcant annual award conferred upon Catholic la>7nen in ihc US the Crowleys liave brought distinction to themselves, their family, their community and to the Class of '33. 
Wc recently retxived a notice o[ the dinner given BILL WTFENBURG upon his retirement as director of the local audit di\ision of the Afichigan Treasury Department. Bill, although retiring from 
26 
state serv'Icc, Is being retained as a consultant to 
the Michigan state Senate and also contempbtes 
teaching at one of the state colleges In Mlchlgan-
We wish hini well. 
CHARLIE CONLEY of Havcrtoun, Pa., lias 
consented to act as chairman of our 35th Reunion 
scheduled for June '68. Over the years Charlie 
lias been extremely active In .Alunml and Class 
affairs and we know that he will do an excellent 
job. 
In a recent communication from Charlie he 
advised us that he liad been In touch with JACK 
KENNEY who lives in Philadelphia an-l is asjo­
clatod widi the Travelers Insurance Co. Jack's 
son was recently graduated from ND and is now 
attending law school at Temple U. While at the 
Army game Charlie visited between halves with 
Dot and PETE CON.VELLY of Rochester. Charlie 
also reminded us that Judge M.-\UR1CE W. LEE 
who sits in the Cook County Court presided 
over the recent trial of comedian Hick Grcgoiy. 
The oulcoinc of the trial and the sentence im­
p€>sed arc a matter of public record. 
ROGER P. BRE.VNAN who practices law in 
Cleveland continues to be very active in the 
scholarship program for the Law School and many 
of Us who practice laW recently received a note 
from Roger encouraging us to suggest Notre 
Dame for possible bequests in clients' wills. An 
excellent thought. 
All of us have recently received a note from 
LUCIEN KEMPF from Lindsay, Okla., dcsig­
nated as our Class Agent by the ND Alumni 
AsMKiiatlon. 
FRANK McGEE, tax assessor of the City of 
Bridgeport and wfio is extremely active In Demo­
cratic affairs in Fairfield County, Conn., was 
engaged in an interesting local primary- during the 
spring in connection w:th election to the State 
Assembly. Tlie Bridgeport Post carried an in­
teresting picture of Frank at the primary count 
accompanied by his familiar cigar. 
JAMES P. CARRIG.^N now resides at 3/5 Upper Mountain Avenue, Upper Montclair, N.J. FRANCIS W. DONALT^' has moved to 109 Harter Place, Utica, N.Y. BERNARD L. COUSINO*s nrw address Is 9610 Summit, Eric, Mich. Dr. ROBERT L. DU BOIS is now re­siding at Carriage Drive. Middlebury, Conn. Capt. (or U he now Admiral?) WILLIAM M. HA^VKS is now residing at 1527 Hacienda Drive, El Cajan, Cal. 
GEORGE BEAUDIN still lives in Chicago and is associated with Loyola U. FRED BECKLEN­BERG JR. Vivos in Winnclka, IH., and is active III real estate development and management in Chicago. TED BUCZYNSKI is still teacliing scliool in the Chicago area and lives in Franklin Park. DICK BURKE who lives in Skokle, III., is dhtnci sales manager of fVheelock Bros. Trans­portation, Inc. 
JIM GARRIGAN while undergoing surgery at Memorial Hospital in New York was surprised to discover two ND men on his case — Dr. TOM CALL.AHA.V '3l and Dr. TO.M .MURPHY '58. 
— JOHN A. HOYT JR., Secretary 

1934 
EDWARD F. MANSREID 523 W. Hillsdale, San Mateo, Cal. 94403 
Eugene C. Coyle '31: 
T
HE HANDSOME walnut plaque reads, for "outstanding perfor­mance in providing service and a spirit of cooperation and helpfulness to the business community." To Eugene C. Coyle, 1965 recipient of the Chicago Association of Com­merce and Industry Award, out­standing performance is nothing new. But Gene does take pride in the fact that he is the first member of the Chicago District of the Inter­nal Revenue Service to be so honored by a group of business and profes­sional leaders for outstanding work as a government tax agent. 
1935 
FRANK T. McGUIRE 
V. P.—Special Projects, Notre Dame, Ind. A6556 
REUNION REGISTRANT­

JAMES MacDEVITT. 
It u-as good to run into BILL GUIMONT at 
the Notre Dame Night in Minneapolis. Also saw 
JOHN CORRIGAN a few da>5 cariier at the 
Cr>-stal Lake, 111., ND Night. Glad to report that 
all goes well with each of them. 
I am thinking of getting BILL RYAN, who 
probably travels as much as anyone in our Class, 
to assist in contacts with you. I sec Bill quite 
often at the golf club and perhaps his assistance 
will result In closer touch with each of you. 
As this Issue goes to press, the summer school 
is about to start here on the campus but the 
summer goes quickly. Before verj* long the stu­
dents will be reluming in the fall. One thing I 
would like to do would be to get the sons of 
the Class of '33 that arc on the campus together 
in our home. It would be most helpful It each 
of yo*j who has a son or sons at ND would drop me a note. Also, ask your son to get in touch with my ofHcc as soon as he gets settled down in the fall. The thought for thb came when I met AL VHTER and his wife on the campus at commencement and learned then that their son, Albert, was getting a degree. He also won a Woodrow Wilson Scholarship. 
— FR.-\NCIS T. .McGUIRE, Secretary 

1936 
URRY PALKOVIC 301 Mechanic St., 
Orange, N.J. 07050 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 14 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

BERT BAUR, WILLIAM K. BAYER JR., CLIFFORD F. BROW.N, ROBERT BURKE. CO.VAL BYRNE, RICHARD CAMP. GEORGE CANNON, MORRIS COOPER, ARTHUR D. CRO.MN, JOHN DcMOTS, JOSEPH DON­NINO, PATRICK J. DO.NOVA,\, WILLIAM FLANNERY, JAMES FOOIIEY, THO.MAS GRADY, HER.MAN GREE.V, MSGR. EDXIOND HAM.MER, .ANDREW HELL.MirrH, LEO J. HOFSCHNEIDER, ANDREW HUF.N'AGEL, KEVI.N O'.VEIL PATRICK KEHOE, EDWARD KEN.VEDY, TOBIAS KRAMER, EDWARD KU.\IROW, FR. ROMAN LADEWSKI C.S.C, KENNETH LAWS, DONNELL McCORMACK, LEO McFARLANE, JAMES -McGUIRE, ED­WARD .\fcVALLY, GEORGE .McVEILE, JOSEPH MacDO.VALD, ROBERT -MacDONALD, JOSEPH MAH.\R, ANTHON'Y J. .MAZZIOTTI, GEORGE MILTO.V, LEE MOORM.AN, AR­THUR MULHOLLAND, FRANK .MURRAY, EDWARD R. NEAHER, STEVEN NOVAK, DANIEL O'BRIEN, -M. J. O'CONNOR, JAMES O'KEEFE, JUSTIN O'TOOLE, L.ARRY PALKOVIC, JOHN A. PARISH, MYRON J. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

noteworthy collector 
The 1931 cum Taude graduate of Notre Dame is modest in his ac­ceptance of the award and credits the cooperation of his fellow Trea­sury Department employees for making it all possible. Gene began his career with the IRS in 1937 Etfter studying at Loyola and DePaul universities in Chicago and working as a public accountant. He took a two-year leave of absence in 1944 to serve in the military forces as a naval officer. 
With his return to civilian life 
PEXTV JR., JOSEPH POMZEVIC, JOHN PRENTICE, ALFRED H. ROHOL JR., L. CHARLES SCHAFFLER, WILLIAM J. SCHMUHL, JOHN L. SCHOONOVER, JOHN SHAFFER, J. J. SHERRY, WOODROW STILL­WAGON, RICHARD F. SULLIVAN, GENE TOBIN, JERRY VOGEL. HUGH WALL, FRED WEBER and GEORGE M. WOLF. 
1937 
JOSEPH P. QUINN 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape, Andover, N.J. 07821 
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 
1139 Western Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46625 
A ivholc generation passed by suddenly as DICK a\RRIGAN, JOHN CLIFFORD, ED CRONIN, RUSS HUNT and m>^clf uTitchcd our sons re­ceive iheir degrees at the June cotnmenceracnt. Dick ("Red") was here from Chicago; John came in from Wilmtlte; Rnss, wliosc son is the Hrst second-generation ND graduate from Rhode Island, came from Woonsockct; while Prof. Ed Cronin and m>'sclf managed the tnp from South Bend. 
Great news from JACK FOX, now Capt. John 
P. Fox USN, who just took command of the USS Independence (CVA-62), one of our largest aircraft carriers. Jack has attained a goal all n3\'al aviators seek* We congratulate him. He will captain his carrier in the Mediterranean until early *G7. Thus, he will miss seeing ND play football for the 10th straight year, but hopes he can make our '68 Reunion even if he has to sail his carrier up the St. Joe River. Jack's present address is 4217 Hermitage Rd., Virginia Beach, Va., where for the past year he has been on the staff of the Atlantic Fleet Commander and keep­ing young with a daughter only two years old. A great consolation to the rest of us as we enter the grandfather era. 
Actually, Helene, my wife, and I traveled the farthest for graduation, rfturning a few days be­fore commencement from a two-week trip with our Chamber of Commerce military' afTairs com­mittee to Europe. JIM LAHEY and his wife, Ruby, and CHUCK SWEENEY'S ^vifc and two daughters, Beverly and Susan, along with JIM BEAUDWAV's wife. Peg, went along, too, as wc visited Berlin (East and West), West Gennany, Switzerland, France (including NATO and SHAPE witli a reception by NATO Ambassador Harlan Cleveland), London and shops and shops and shops. Chuck and Jim didn't go — didn't have "Dc Galle" to sec their wives pouring all that money into France's economy. While in Paris we made arrangements to have our daughter, Mar­garet, spend six weeks in France this summer with a family on a \'acation exchange program. If any of you have high schools sons and daughters who have two years of French, >-ou can send tliem to France next summer for six weeks. Then, the French family's youngsters will live in your home for sue Weeks. Write mc for more information. 
— BURNIE BAUER, Secretary 

came the inevitable recognition of his superior talents. Positions of in­creasing responsibility took him to Chicago, Washington, DC and Co­lumbus, Ohio. He was named assistant district director in Colum­bus in 1954 and two years later he was promoted to the directorship of the Buffalo Eurea. 
September 1, 1962 marked the beginning of his tenure as the Chi­cago district director a position which led to public recognitfon of his talents as an outstanding ad­
1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 1804 Greenwood Dr., South Bend, Ind. 4<S614 
ThU is '39 on the GO! Class prMty JIM MOTSCHALL, recently appointed Class .Agent for tlic annual Alumni Fund, lost no lime getting to work. You all have received Jim's letter of ex-Iiorfatioii and sm certain vou all will respond. "Legal Eagle" JINt McGOLDRICK also circu­larizing us to consider our alma mater in our estate planning. Grapennc reports election o[ WALTER H. JOH.N'SON JR. as president. Sales and Marketing Executives—International. Con­gratulations, Walt. For those wondering the whereabouts of our classmates on the move, the following address changes just received: CHARLES BER.\ARD NELSON, 27 East Moreland Place, Decatur, III.; CHARLES F. O'.MALLEY, 900 Valencia St. No. 34, Albuquerque, N.M.; JAMES 
L. QUINN JR., I(H2 Randall, LaHabia, Cal.; Dr. SALVATORE P.AUL SCARAL.\TA, 8228 Tr>on PI., Jamaica, N.Y.; Dr. D.ANIEL A. TOBIN. 2682 Cowper, Palo Alio, Cal.; JA.MES 
L. WARNER, 13707 Hart St., Apt. 1, Van Nuvs, Cal. 
In Memoriam: JOHN J. O'CONNELL died April 29. Please remember him in \-our prayers. 
— JOSEPH E. HA.VNA.V, Secretari" 

1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 117 S. Stewart Ave., Lombard, III. 60148 
This rather brief bit of news about us MEN OF '40 has been delayed until the very last moment before deadline in hopes that some of you will furnish a few interesting items for the column. 
In the name of the entire Class I wish to ex­tend our sincere s>Tnpathy to Mrs. Eichler on the loss of her husband and our classmate GEORGE 
M. EICHLER, LLB'40. Take a moment right now to pray for George and all the deceased mem­bers of our Class. 
The latest news was just recently published in the Chicago newspapers. TOM MONAHAN lias been elected to the position of executive vice-president of Scars Bank in Chicago. He missed the Reunion last year to attend some very special bankers' school; now it appears that he made the correct decision. Congratulations, Tom. 
MATT GONRING is also in line for con­gratulations. Matt has been promoted to director and vice-president of B. C. Zieglcr & Co., a West Bend. Wis., securities firm. During the past year I have thought of Matt and his "Pennsylvania Dutch" group from West Bend as I worked with my son on his high school Gennan. 
Although I talked %vith JOE CUMMINGS at the Reunion last year I didn't realize he was the outstanding acoiuntant recent developments have indicated. Joe u*as elected to the .Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Cer­tilied Public Accountants. The Board, composed of 21 prominent CPAs, is the accounting profes­sion's leading authority on accepted practices. 
JIM METZLER has resigned his position with 
ministrator and a financial wizard. 
The latter is also attested to by his 
holding a CPA certificate in Illinois 
and by his membership in the Illinois 

Society of Certified Public Ac­
countants. 
Gene is married to the former 
Mary Celeste Stokes snA they reside 
at 7720 S. Coles Ave., Chicago. They 
have two children—John, who will 
begin his senior year at Notre Dame 
in September, and a daughter, Mrs. 
Donald Steinwachs. The Coyles have 
 one grandchild. 
Metzlcr Brothers & Co, in Kansas City to accept 
the vice-presidency and a directorship of R. B. 
Jones and Sons, Inc., a Kansas City insurance 
firm. 

There was a most interesting article in the 
magazine. Modern Packaging, about one of our 
men, LEW HAYHURST. He is an acknowledged 
expert on packaging, having worked for Kraft 
Foods and now for Swift & Co. as general man­
ager of packaging. Perhaps some of you have nin 
into Lew as he has given many talks throughout 
the country on his favorite subject, packaging. 
The best correspondent of the Class of '-(0, 
GERRY SAEGERT, sent a followup to his last 
letter. He adds, "The Miami-ND weekend \*'as 
considerably brightened by the presence of DON 
GILLILAN D who came all the u-ay from Phoenix 
to join the festivities. 
"A few weeks ago Maria and I were In Chicago 
and bumped into Marie and HUGH LAUGHN.A. 
Hugh had invited 'J. C BRENNAN to join them 
for dinner and it ended up a thoroughly enjoy­
able visit. At that time we decided to meet 
during the Army game weekend this fall. In fact, 
Hugh, J. C , CILVRLIE KELLY and wives have 
motel reser\'ations already. We plan to attend 
this game along uith the TOM FLADs, so it has 
the makings of a small reunion. Let's get some 
added starters to plan on the Army weekend. 
"Aigo's BOB LA^fBERT will be a key man 
in the recent merger of three leading NYC new»* 
papers. Bob is a lice-prcsJdent and director of 
advertising. JIM CASPER of Milwaukee and hb 
lovely wife, known as 'Mac,' were in NY enroute 
to a BOA C vbit to Nassau." Thanks again, 
Gerry! You have done more than set a good 
example — j-ou have become the very lifebtood of 
this column. I certainly would like to hear frtMn 
more of you who pbn on attending the Army 
game. I will ask Gerry to designate a place and 
time for the small reunion. 
I hope the rest of you read more of the AI.UM.NUS than just my column; but for those of you who are overwhelmed and cannot continue I would like to point out that three men of '40 received Man of the Year Awards this year — DON FOSKETT from the Connecticut Valley Club and GERRY FLYNN from the Rochester, 
N.Y. Club. Don is managing editor of The Catk­olic Transcript. In Albuquerque, N.M., members and friends of the New Afexico ND Club hon­ored the late Col. JOSEPH D. WIDENER by awarding him posthumously their Man of the Year A\s-ard. 
Here are a couple of excerpts from an older letter from REX ELLIS. "I have very little per­sonal information that would be of any interest. However, since leaving the FBI in 1954, I have been in the real estate bu^ness in the Southern California area. You w*ill probably recall PETE ARBOIT and his brother, ENNIO '38 now both deceased. I see thetr sister and father fre* quently inasmuch as all of us are members of the same parish in La Caiuida. 
"I frequently see ED FULHAM who was JIM CASPER's Toomuate in St. Ed's and a good friend of the Milwaukee contingent." We Mil­\vaukeeans certainly remember Ed and I for. one would like to hear from him. Thanks for the letter. Rex, I bet you never expected to see any part of that one in itiis coltunn — it is only two years old. . JOHN "BUD" LIN-NEHAN and wife, Lois. 
ALUMNUS JULY 1956 AUGUST 
have a new address — 2400 West Kcnbocrn Drive, 
Glcndalc, Wis., but •ivill probably be out at their 
Cf^da^ Lake "cottage*' all summer. 
Since I have run out of nc^re I will bring you 
up to date on TOur sccrctarj-. I have been con­
troller at Guardian Electric Mfg. Co., Chicago, 
for the past five >*cars. ^fy daughter is attending 
Cardinal Stritch College in Milwaukee, and my 
son will finish high school at St. Procoplus Acad­
emy, Lisle, III. Through tlie unselfish efforts of 
my wife, Mar>- Lu, I am proceeding to acquire a 
master's degree at DePaul U. in hopes of be­
coming a college professor- If any of you liavc 
any suggestions as to how I should proceed in 
this endeavor please forward tlie advice. 
Obviously, it is a sad slate of affairs when I 
write about m>-self. So men of *40, help me out 
and send some nev\-s- One year ago at the Re­
union many of you did make rash promises; now 
ccme through and fulfill them for me. 
— BOB "Short\" S.-\NFORD, Secretary 
1941 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN Spellman & Madden 342 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y. 10017 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 15 
REU.VIO.V REGISTR,\NTS 
GEORGE W. ALPS, LOUIS APONE, JOH.N ASELGE, MER\aN B.AG.-\.V, ROY B.\IRLEY, HAROLD J. BARRES, ROBERT B.VRTL, RICH­ARD BATT. .-^NTHON-y BENEDOSSO, VICTOR BLONG, DONALD A. BOSS, D.-\.NIEL BRAD­LEY, WALTER BREN.N.AN. WIL.MOTT BROW.N. EDWARD BUDDY, WILLIAM BUENGER, JOH.V E. BURKE. WILLIAM J. BURNS, MMES CARROLL. THOM.-\S CARTi', JOSEPH CASEY, TH.ADDEUS CASSIDY, JOSEPH CATTIE. EDWARD COLBERT, THOMAS H. CON.NOR, JOH.N B. CORCO­RAN, WILLIAM E. COTTER JR., WALTER J. "BOB" CRO.VI.N. THOM.\S CURRIG.AN, JAMES B. CURTIS. WILLIAM D.\LY. THOM­AS DELIA, ALBERT DEL ZOPPO, CH.-\RLES E. DILLON, ROBERT DOWD. -MAURICE J. DUFFY, WILLIAM DUNHA.M. ED EDMONDS, 
J. HOWARD ESSICK, THO.M.^S C. GAL­LAGHER, J.AMES .\L GARTLAND, BILL GARVEY. CYRIL T. GARVEY. LEE GAR\'EY, CH.ARLES GERARD, JOSEPH GILLESPIE, HARRY P. GOTTRON, TOM GRADY, ED­WARD GRAHAM, CHARLES GREENE, GEORGE GREENE. JOH.V A. GUBANICH, JOSEPH P. GUILTL\.A.N, JORDA.N HAMEL, ALFRED J. HAMMER JR., ED.MU.VD HAR­VEY, WILLL\M H.AWES, TO.Vi' HEINZEN, WILLIAM R. HENNESSEY, GERRY HICKEY, HOWARD HILLES, JOHN HOLLA.\D, FRANK HOPKINS, ROBERT HOWLEY, THOMAS HUCK, ROBERT JEHRI.NG, RICHARD C. KACZMAREK, ELMER K.AM.M. JOH.V K.-\NE, 

BROTHER THEODORE KAPES CSC, GEORGE 
W. K.\TTER, BERT KELLY, RAYMOND J. KELLY JR., FR.ANCIS KENNEDY, HOWARD KORTH, ROBERT L.\NGLOIS, SAL La-PILUSA, CHARLES LATTIMER, FRANCIS J. LAUER.M.AN, JOE L.-\WLER, JOSEPH Le-STR.\NGE, FRANCIS LINK, AR.\L\ND M. LOPEZ, J.ACK LUCAS, PHILIP McCANN.-\, MICHAEL McCAUGHEY. FR.-\NK McDON-OUGH, JAMES P. McGOVERN, FRANK Mc-GRODER, JA.MES M. -McINERNEY, JOHN Mc-NAMARA, JOHN MacCAULEY, LOUIS Mac-KENZIE, BER.VARD A. -M.AGO, LAWRENCE -MAJEWSKI, WILLIAM MALANEY, GEORGE -MAURY, CLARENCE MARQUARDT, JOSEPH MARRANCA, RICH-MO-VD MEAD, JAMES ME.ANEY, JOH.V A. MIES, GEORGE E. -MILES, EDWARD MINCZESKI, JOHN MORTELL, JAMES -MURPHY, JOH-V MURPHY, WILLARD MURPHY, EDWARD MURRAY, JA-MES H. .MURRAY, DONALD R. MURTAGH, JAMES NEWLAND, JOHN F. O'BRIEN, RICRi^RD O'CON.VOR, JOH-N O'DEA, ROBERT C. ODEN­BACH, REV. THO-MAS O'DON-VELL, GARD OLIVEROS, JOHN O'LOUGHLIN, ROBERT OSBORN, ROBERT OSTER-NLAN, -ALFRED J. PERRINE, ROBERT POHL, PAUL PUGLU, PATRICK PUTNAM, GEORGE R-ASSAS, THOMAS REIS, RONALD REJE-VT, JAY J. REYNOLDS JR., ROBERT E. RICHARDSON, TO.Vi' ROMIO, ROBERT RONSTADT, LEO J. ROBIDOUX, JEROME RYA.V, ROBERT SAG­GAU, IRWIN SCHAFF-VER, HOWARD SCHEL­LENBERG, VINCENT SCHIRF, HUBERT SCHLAFLY, RAY SCHLESIER, CLAUDE J. SCH.MIDLE, JOHN SHAFRANSKY, JOHN SIEVERT, J. VI-VCENT SMYTH, WILLIAM F. SPALDING, JAMES SPELLMAN, DANIEL J. STACK, JOH.V STACK, ROBERT ST.ACK, ARTHUR G. STARR, WILLIAM STURM, 
DA-VIEL SULLIVA-V, THOMAS TALTY, JAMES TEAGARDEN, DO-VALD TIEDE­-MA-N-N, JAMES TI-VN^Y, FRED VOGLEWEDE, RICH.ARD W.ALTER, LAWRENCE ^L WALSH, ROBERT WAY, WILLIA.M WILSON, VERNON 
J. WITKOWSKI and WILLIAM J. WOODS. 
1942 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 
P.O. Box 8640A Chicago, Illinois 60680 
We have ne\« from ROBERT T. J. "BOB" ALLEN tliat he is now bacl: in N.Y. with Union Carbide after ha\-ing been in Texas and California. His home address is 58 Elm Road, Briarcliff -Manor, N-Y­
MIKE CARR from Indianapolis writes tliat he travels as a manufacture!? representative in sta­tionerj- and gift lines. When in Decatur, HI., he sees STEVE GR.\LIKER frequcntlv. Also ran into CHARLIE MARKWELL who is with Gen­eral Electric Appliances. Steve ad\-ised Mike that Rev. ROBERT S. STEWART '41 and LLB'47 (and a member of the 1942 Fl>-ing Irish) was installed as pastor of the Westminster Presbyteiian Church in Decatur. Stc\-e im'ited the Flying Irish to attend. Last fall after the Purdue game they had a miniature 1942 Reunion at Corrinc and TED M-ACDONALD's home in West LaFayette-EUen and JACK -MALONE, STEVE GRALIKER, BRYON KANALEY, the CrVRRs wert: there. 
— WILLIAM il. HICKEY, Secretarj­

1943 
JACK WIGGINS 5125 Briggs Ave., LaCrescenfa, Cal. 91014 
REUNION REGISTRANT­FRANK CONFORTI. 
1944 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
At this time of the year one is inclined to think 
— more appropriately dream — of golfing or sailing or gardening or camping, in fact, of anything but preparing a column. Yet, It would be dreadful if not a word appeared under the 1944 Class news heading. If such were the case, your secre­tar>', uithout any doubt, would be seeking an­other non-pa>'ing position. So here it goes. 
Recently, all of yo'j received a very important communique from JOHN .AXHUT, '44 Class Agent for the Annual Alumni Fund. In his letter he commented that the Class was fourth highest in dollars contributed in 1963, with slightly less than 30 percent of the members participating. Tlie goal is complete involvement — 100 percent par­ticipation. It can be achieved through some real sacrifice, through some concentrated cR'ort, but above all, through some hard cold ciash. Whatever your donation might be, give it now. It will be one of your most profitable investments. 
*44crs who arc members of the clergy have been most cooperative in keeping your secretary informed of their whereabouts and activities. Father JAMES GOWER is at the Sacred Heart parish, \Valcr\-ille, Maine and, like many, is en­thusiastic over tlie changes brought about bv Vati­can II. Father JOSEPH H.AYDEX, St. 'joscph Parish, Swedesboro, N.J., besides his pastoral duties, docs work in clinical psycliolog>-, is chair­man of the Gloucester County Association of Mental Health and Education, is cliaplain of the Philadelphia XD Alumni, and is a major in Group 225 Chaplain, CAP, Air Force Auxiliary. Father RAMOX di N.ARDO SS is a professor at St. Mary's Scminarv- in Baltimore. Rabbi H\'MAX COHEX, headquarters in Cincinnati, is the father of three and enjoj3 gardening and chess in his leisure moments. Father WILLIAM BOLAXD CSC is a chaplain in the Canadian Nav>' and is stationed at RCX Air Station, Shearvvtiter. N'o\-a Scotb. Father .\LVA.X HEURIXG is pastor of St. Xicholas in Evandale, Iowa and prior to his present assignment did graduate work in sociology. Father WILLIAM LYOXS is super\-ising prin­cipal of Delone Catholic High, McShcrrj-sIown, Pa. and for a hobby clips and grooms French poodles. Father EDW.ARD O'COXXOR CSC holds fort at Dillon Hall, teaches at ND, and tries "outwitting students at 1:30 a.m, after giving 
ROBERT J= McBRIDE '47: 
ON JANUARY 10, Robert J. McBride '47 added still another facet to his varied history of accomplishments, as he was named vice-president of sales and services for J. Artim & Sons, Inc. of Hammond, Ind., a Mid­west trucking firm. Bob came to Notre Dame in 1940, a graduate of a Lancaster, Ohio, high school, eager to play football under Elmer Layden. He won a monogram in 1941 and gained a starting slot as varsity guard in 1942. In the spring of 1943, however. Bob left ND for Europe and the "war to end Eill Wcirs." In Jcmuary of 1945, Bob's parents received a telegram from the War Department notifying them that Bob had been missing in action since December 21. By May of that year, however, word came that advancing Allied forces had liberated another prison camp and one of the oc­cupamts WEis Bob McBride. 
He returned to Notre Dame for his final year, again playing as guard on the 1946 squad and graduating cum Itiude in sociology. He spumed the professional football teams, say­ing he was a "bom family man" and the "merry-go-round" of a pro cEireer was not in line with that feeling. In­stead, he began as head football 
ALUMNUS JULY ^966 AUGUST 

them odds of 144 to one." Father JOSEPH GALLAGHER CSP is director, Paulbt Institute for Religious Research in New York City. Re­cently, he has seen VLVCE DUNCAN, VIC KIM­MEL, BILL O'CONNOR, BILL LAWLESS, JOHN ANHUT and BOB FISHER. Father ARTHUR LE BRETON, pastor of St. Bar­tholcmcw's congregation, MurTa>'vi[Ic, III., also teaches Latin and English at Routt High in Jacksonville. Msgr. GEORGE EVANS is the clianccllor of the Arclidioccsc of Denver. He men­tioned that occasionally he sees Dr. PHILLIP CLARKE, another '44cr. Father JOHN COR­CORAN CSC has been a member of tlic faculty at ND High, Niles, III., since *55. Prior to that assignment he taught at Columbia Prep School, Pordand, Ore. 
BILL McNAMx\RA, manager of the Cleveland ofltcc of the William J. Bums International De­tective Agency, didn't have much luck in tracking down "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY when both were \*acationing at the same Holiday Inn on a southern isbnd. Murph had room 438C but Bill left the note on room 436C. JOHN LYNCH wrote that JIM CUNNINGHAM whom he saw in Pittsburgh last year was mentioned as a '43er in a recent ALUMNUS but really is a '44er. He is on the roster for the correct class, John. 
A very detailed questionnaire %^'as received from a ph>'5ician in Great Falls, Mont. With eight acti'rc children, lie spends whatever leisure he has in ihe mountains — tishing, h'jnting, or just camp­ing out in the summer and skiing in the winter. He is a major in the Air National Guard and is active In scouting. The m>-slcr>* of who he is would be solved if he would send a postcard signed. 
COYNE CALLAGHAN, the father of 10 rang­ing from 17-year-old Marty down to three-year­old Jim. is president of Continental Products Corp., Milwaukee. He maintains his college ph>-siquc through daily workouts at the Menio Bath Club. He is active in local village (Shore­wood) affairs and in the sjinphony. TED TOOLE, formerly of High Point, N.C., now is a resident of Saginaw, Mich, where he is associated with the Dow Chemical Co. His neighbor is BILL HENDRICK who is in the contracting busi­ness. Bill is confused as to just what class is his because he started at ND in Ml and finished in '44 due to the accelerated program. There really is no solution. 
DICK DOER.MER, president of Indiana Bank & Trust Co. of Fort Wayne, must have been joking when be complained about the low Ie\'cl of interest rates. He could have a rush on loans as a result of such a statement. Dick frequently sees TO.\I O'REILLY and ARTIE HOFFMAN who arc also Fort Wayne t\'coons. 
HARRY YE.ATES is a very faithful correspon­dent, usually writing twice between the column deadliness. Recently, he moved to a new apart­ment a few doors up the street at 333 East 53th, NYC. 
DICK PEDROTTY's son, John, and JOE VAN DYKES's son, Michael, will be entering ND as freshmen this fall. Mike will be a third-generation Pedrolty because his grandfather, FRANCIS, was a graduate in '23. Dick is president of Industrial Metal Cleaning Co., St. Lo'iis, and lives in nearby Florissant, Mo. Joe Van Dyke's daughter at­tends Lorctto Heights College in Denver. At Parents' Day in spring, Joe ran into GEORGE WENDT wiiosc daughter also matriculates there. 
TOM "TEX" SCHEXNAYDER, Houston in­surance agent, wonders what has happened to his old buddies from Brecn-Phiilips —TOM BREN­NAN, NICK AMATO, JOHN HUGHES and H/\RRY SULL1VA.\. Tom was founder and chainnan of the Interfaiih Charity Bowl (Pro-football) and is past grand knight and post dis­trict deputy of the KC. 
JOHNNY JOHNSON, Worthington, Ohio sales­man enjoj-s taking movies for a hobby. Two hundred feet of his shots of the burning SS Yar­mouth Oistle were turned over to the Coast Guard and were used in the investigation of the tragedy. John and Ins wife were cruising on the Bahama Star at the time. 
WILL WALDRON, engaged in the construc­tion business in Livingston, N.J., frequently sees GEORGE BARISCILLO because the Waldroiis and, also, the FRANK G.\RlBALDIs summer x-acation in George's area. PAT KILEY, Marion, Ind. real estate broker, also is a partner in a beer distributorship. 
Soon the football season will be in full swing. Here in Green Bay the stadium is sold out for all games long before official play begins. Without doubt the Packers will be champs again. Any bettors? Tlierc is to be a charter flight origi­nating in GB for the ND-Army tussle on Oct. 8. Perhaps, there will be a chance of seeing some '44crs. 
— JOSEPH A. NEUFELD, Secretary 

1945 
FRANK M. LINEMAN 
G.E. Co., 600 Main St., Johnson City, N.Y. 13790 
HARRY WALTERS Is bus\- making plans for our 25th in 1970. He will be calling on many of our Classmates for help. We need your financial sup­port, so please send your $10 (for 5 years dues) to our Class treasurer JIM DUGAN, 17717 Lake­wood Heights Blvd., Lakewood, Ohio. 
The Young KENT has reappeared — his ad­dress P.O. Box 227, Chesterton, Ind. 
DICK SAYERS reports in with his check and sur\"ey. He is director of distribution for Mon­santo Co., St. Louis. His Kathleen graduates from high school this year. 
DICK WHITING has a Kathleen also and she, too, is graduating from high school this year. The Whitings are in Lathrop Village, Mich, where Dick is secretary and VP of sales for Fayette Tubular Products, Inc. 
Wc pass along our condolences and prayers to FR/\.NK FITZGIBBONS on the death of his father in June. 
JOE HAGGAR is bus>- at work as our Class Agent for the Alumni Oflice. 
JOHN BOWEN is with the Martin Co. in Orlando. John and Phyliss have sbc children and live in Maidand, Fla. 
Rev. CHARLES A. D. .\ORTON CSC is pas­tor of San Roque Parish. Santiago. Chile. 
— FRANK .M. LINEHAN, Sccretan­

a pro career 
coach at Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago with Johnny Dee, now head ND basketball coach, as his assistant. 
In 1949, he again returned to Notre Dame, this time as coach of the tackles for Frank Leahy, re­placing Ed Krause who had become assistant athletic director and head basketball coach. By 1950, Bob was Leahy's assistant football coach. 
In 1954, he left ND to take the position of sales manager with the Artim trucking firm. In 1960 he was named assistant to the president, and held that oflBce until his recent ap­pointment as vice-president. 
Football agcun beckoned to Bob 

ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
in 1959, when Leahy, as general manager of the Los Angeles Charg­ers of the AFL, offered him the head coaching job of the new team. Bob refused the post. 
Perhaps the desire to remain a family man again played a part, for Bob has a pretty sizable family. As he describes it: "The McBride famUy consists of this writer (Bob), Mary and seven children—five boys and two girls. Pat, the oldest, is in his second year at the US Air Force Academy; Bob, now 17, has applied to Notre Dame for September, 1966; Mary Ann, Cathy, Mike, Tim and John range from 16 to 11." 
1946 PETER P. RICHISKI 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 16 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

TOM BURNES, CHARLES CLAUSS, CHRIS COCHRANE, DIAMOND COMMISA, O. PAUL DOYLE, EDWARD FISHER, THOMAS KELLY, ARTHUR KERNEN, JOHN MEULENDYK, EDWARD MIESZKOWSKI, PETER RICHISKI, EDWARD J. RODGERS, KERMFT ROUSSEVE, JOH.N K. STEWART and HARRY SURKAMP. 
1947 
JACK MILES 
3218 Bentley Lane, 
South Bend, Ind. 46615 
FIRST CALL TO REUNION 

Our 20-Year Reunion is scheduled for June 9, 10 and 11, 1967. Those of us vAio live in the shadow of the Dome ask yoj simply, gentlemen: What is your pleasure? 
In 1957, without a great deal of ballyhoo, we liad a turnout of 63. With promotion, question­naires, selection of a Class mascot and a name therefore, etc., we felt wc could go over 100 and enjoy a gala weekend in 1962. We drew 19, 
Perhaps some of you have some clues to what we might do to attract more of our brethren back to the campus next year. Or are we flailing an expired equine? Let me know. 
THE 5HEA-$ZY.MANSKI RESPONSE Two classmates were moved to respond to my "Monetar>- Mayday*' appeal last issue. 
FR\NK SZY^U.\SKI, judge of Wayne County probate court in Detroit, jotted these words: "Enclosed please 6nd $2 for the anemic Class fund. This is one $2 bet that I know will pay off." 
x\nd JIM SHE,\, dispatching a like amount, wrote: '*It is always refreshing to read your Class highlights. Time certainly is fleeting by, nearly 20 years since our graduation day. Sorry to read of the passing away of two of our classmates. Enclosed is a small donation you may use to remember tliem in a special w:iy. As for myself and family, all seems to be going well. But we will be moving to Wilkes-Barrc, Pa. I have accepted a position as an assistant professor in the education department at King's College which is run by tlic Holy Cross Fathers. Hoping to see you at the 20ih Reunion in *67. . . . " 
Thanks to both men for their interest in the Class. Now we have $43. Who'll make it $50? 
GLE.\NINGS 

GERfVLD E. H.-\RRIMAN has been appointed professor of business administration at the South Bend-Misha^vaka campus of Indiana U. 
EUGENE HULL has moved from Chicago to New York City with the Otis Ele\-ator Co. I firmly resolve to resist the temptation to suggest life has its ups and downs for him. 
JIM DONLAN has burrowed a little further into the New Engbnd heartland, having switched residence from Nonvood, Mass. to Burlington, Vl. 
Word out of Greeley, Colo, reveak BILL KOCH lias won his PhD, presumably in chemistry, since tliat H-os his major at ND. 
Rev. ED RUETZ of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese in June was appointed assistant pas­tor of St. Mary*s Parish in Fort Wayne. The South Bend native was also named deanery mod­erator of the Cursilto movement. 
CARL JULIEN has westwaid-hied, from Pitts­burgh to Davenport, Iowa, and JOHN HENRY has trekked the other way, from Detroit to Sum­mit, X.J. 
BRUCE SILL, assistant manager of the welding wire di\'ision of the National-Standard Co., has been transferred from St. Louis back to South Bend to work out of the firm's home office. Bruce has been logging 100,000 miles annually, selling National-Standard's bexy of direct accounts in the US and Canada. He and Phyllis have three sons — 12, 10, and 7. During his five years in St. Louis he managed in the Khoury League, and his first summer in South Bend he has be­come active in the Little League program. Dur­ing his Missouri years, he says he often got the 
29 
diancc to \Tsit with HAROLD SOLOMON, presi­dent of the ND Club of Kansas City. 
Smack at presstimc, the South Bend Commu­nity Scliool Corp. announced the appointment of JOHN FITZHEN'RV as its vocal music coordina­tor. For the past U years, John has been vocal ciusic teacher at Washington High School and the past tv\o, musical director for ll)c Country Playho sc, a summer stock ventui-c. You ^vill remember that John was president of the Glee Club in our senior year, and this frcsli honor' automatically qualifies him to lead community singing at our 20-year Reunion nc-Vt June. Wc expect all tonsils, not to mention tracheae and larynges, to be oiled sufiicicntly by that time to give syiiably sirideni voice lo the "Sing Along with Fitz" hour .. . or for the more boisterous elements in our brotlicrhood, "Fiing a Log at Fitz." 
EX FIN What's tliat — you didn't read your name? It's you, not I, who have to bear the blame. 
— JACK >(ILES, Secretary­
1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd., Cliffon, N.J. 07013 
I have held out to the last day in submitting the items of interest for the Class of '48, hoping tliat some news would came about but as usual it is quite h'mited. In the initial issue of Ihc ALUMNtJS this year a yellow card was enclosed in the Class news section so that a speedy note to the Class secretary would be with a minimum of pain and strain. I received nine of them out of a class of better itian 1,000 and one of them was just a change of address. So tn view of this situation the column just struggles along. 
I have jiisi heard from the .^lymni OiBce that JOHN McKEON (BSC) died on June 3. Mrs. ^(cKeo^ is living at 3188 So. Dallas Ct., Denver, Colo, if anyone wants to contact her and express tlieir personal sMupathy. A Mass will be offered on July 2 at XD for John by Rev. THO.MAS 
J. O'DONNELL CSC. 
On an ALUMNUS reply card received from ifrs. Jolm C. Kalapos, I was informed that her hus­band JOHN C. K.-\LAPOS passed away on Jan. 30, Death was due to a heart condition. At the time of his death, John was coordinator of gas rescue and water safety for US Steel at Fairless Hills, Pa. }ic is survived by his wife, a daughter 
(8) and a son (6). Mrs. Kalapos is residing at 233 Fors^lhia Dr. So. in Levittown, Pa. for any friends of John who may wish to extend their sjinpatliy. 
I rrccived a letter from DA\'E MOSIER, MD who admits that it is his first letter to a class secretary although he reads the .ALUMNUS faith­fully. Dave is director of research at the Illinois Slate Pediatrics Institute working in areas of men­tal retardation. He is also associate professor of pediatrics at the U. of Illinois College of Medi­cine. Dave and his wife have three children — l%*o bo>-s and a girl. 
JOHN HORRIG.AN also whites that "this is his first note since leaWng ND." (If we could get more "firsts" wc would have quite a supply of info for the next fe*^" years.) John is with the Continental Illinois National Bank in Chicago and travels the state of Illinois on banking mat­ters for the state and local governments. John is married to Marge Dailey (sister of Bill '49), and they have four sons and three daughters. Three of the boj-s arc already in high school. John would like to hear from TOM HERBERT and Fr. JIM FL.\NAGAN as Well as any of the V-J2 Zahmbics of '43-'44. John is still in Jolict at 1216 Taylor Street. 

LARRY RYAN is in Nc\*- York now with Gen­eral Motors and is ass't to the vice-president for branch operations. Larry is living in Hillsdale. NJ. 
WARREN KANE thought the card was a good way for ''procrastinators*' to get into action. War­ren is presently in Whittier, Cal. after a little more than two years in Conn. He is Mce-president and general manager of Flour Products Inc. His oldest daughter is planning to get married, merely prov­ing that the Class of '48 is getting on in years. 
RAY KENNEY wrote his first note to a class secretary because In the past he never thought himself as being newswonhy. Ray and his wife have four boj-s and a girl, and are li\*ing in Washington, D.C. where he is assistant regional manager for Chrj*slcr Motor Corp., Chrysler-Wymouth Div. Ray, whose territory- is adjacent to Washington, would like to find tome classmates 
30 
on his travels. He can be readied at 6603 Ian 
Street, Lanham, Md. 
RUDY KEMPTER advises us that he recently 
took a position with the Office of tiic Assistant 
Secretarj- of Defense. He is Itnng in Washington 
with his wife, Margaret, and three sons. 
FRED SHEEDY u-ritcs that he and his wife 
just had their sixth child, their fourth daughter. 
Fred sa>-s that he sees JIM SOMMER quite often, 
an attorney in Frcdonia, N.Y. where tlie>' arc 
both living at this time. 
LEONARD AULL, after nine years of teaching 
in the junior high level, has become a faculty 
member of Muscatine Community College and is 
teaching several business courses. In addition to 
his teaching, Lcn is doing graduate .work beyond 
his master's degree. Len lias three boys and a 
girl. He lias missed the last two reunions but 
will make amends in '68. 
Well, that's about it for this time. Not much, 
but a bit more than the usual. Nobody has to be 
doing anything sensational or be a real neu'S­
makcr to make this column. Your friends just 
like to know what you arc doing now. It only 
takes a few u-ords to put it into message fonn. 
While reading this column w-hy not get out a 
piece of paper and drop tis a few lines. You 
knovv, as tlie Class gets older, we'll be writing 
more about those who have left us and what 
they did just prior to their departure. So before 
Wc have to \sTite about you as a departed mem­
ber of the Class of '48, let's hear from you while 
you are able to do your own wiiting. 
•— GEORGE J. KEENAN, Secretary 

1949 
LEO L. WESLEY 155 Driftwood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

LEO BARNHORST and BOB KESSING. 
The Apostles had their "Peter, the Rock." The 
Class of '49 can boast of PETER (the Rock) KERN.\N: as Class Agent for the Alumni Fund and, equally important to mc, as a ver>' effective supercliargcr promoting the f\ow of news, data and statistics and sundry news items from your desks lo mine. 
Just when the yellow reply cards were becom­ing scarce, along came Pete's fine report-type letter to member of the '49 Class and magically the mails are "burgeoning" again. (Well, eight this week rates as burgeoning in my book!) Those who Iiavc yet to follow Pete's advice, please take 15 minutes next Sunday afternoon (forget the Yankee TV game) and drop me a note. Your message will hit this column, I promise you. 
Here's what I've learned — Capt. JOE DE VINCE?mS sent me a card from Cannon AFB in N.M. Most of the message was obliterated as the card appears to have suffered severe flood damage — sent by tub — or floating bottle? In any c\'cnt the card appears to have started out in February and through the ink blots I have determined that Joe was in Okinawa and is now assigned to the 832 Tactical Hospital at Cannon AFB. Some mention made of "our sixth child" 
— and then a reference to some *'meetings in Tf?s Vegas." Thai's all I could decipher, Joe, but many tlianks for the good effort. 
Mrs. Ed Everly dropped me a note joyfully 
Arthur Curran '50: 

A
RTHUR B. Curran Jr. IXB '50 now 
sits on the bench of the City 
Court of Rochester, N.Y. His ap­
pointment in December, 1965 
marked the end of a long period of 
accomplishment on one side of the 
judicial bench as a trial lawyer, and 
the beginning of a second period of 
legal service to his native city. 
Art began his career in Rochester 
in 1950 as law clerk to a US District 
Court judge. The desire to face the 
courts as a practicing trial attorney 
led him in 1951 to the start of a ten-
year law practice in which he tried 
announcing that she (Vickie Sclmykr) and ED­
WARD EVERLY '49 were married Dec 17 in 
Long Beach, Cal. New address is 3551 Rolanda 
Ave. in Long Beach 90815. Too late for adwce, 
but drop him a note 3ny\\-ay. Best w*ishes, Eddie! 
PATRICK MEE.\AN telU of being named 
'*Boss of the Year" by the Casper, Wyo. Junior 
Chamber of Commerce. He's consistent because 
in 1962 he won the Jaycee "Young ^fan of tlie 
Year" award. Second man in their histor>- to 
win both Jaycee awards. If tlicy have an Old 
Man Au-ard, I'll bet on Pat, again. He feeds 
the family by reason of being prcs. of the CBS 
radio outlet in Casper, station KATI; also, a 
practicing CPA and in 1966 retired from his second 
term as mayor of Casper! The city recently 
awarded him tfs Distinguished Public Servant 
Award. (For retiring?) Our personal salute to 
you, too, pat. 
JERRY SPAHN CLU (and those initials arc 
significant) wrote mc a dandy little memo from 
Westchester, III. to say that he has his ot^Ti 
"estate planning" business. Insurance has been his 
forte what w-ith the CLU and Million Dollar 
Round Tabic membership lor '63, '64 & '65, Those 
in the area can find him attending the West­
chester Chamber of Commerce and Hillside Rotary 
meetings regularly. Fenwick High sounds familiar. 
Jerry saj-s he has a iD-ycarnald boy, Tommy, who 
will be a soph there in September. Another 
younger son and two younger daughters round oit 
the crew. 
Lblen to this bit of community pride from BOB ROTCHFORD speaking from Spokane, Wash. Bob tells of living at S. 202 Coeur d'AIcnc in Spokane with his wife and two daughters. Missed the 15-year-old reunion after serious plan­ning to attend with his brother, Dr. JIM ROTCH­FORD, who is a dermatologist in Spokane. The 20-year-scssion in '69 is a "must" saj-s Bob, and then closes with "if you arc ever in this part of the great Northwest, give us a call on your way through and Vnt will show >-oa what real countr>* is like!" You mean it's hilly? Like the climb to 410 Badin? 
0!e "Colonel" GEORGE BENNING gives full credit to Pete Kernan's letter for prompting his memo — truly a great letter — to me %vith these facts: home for George and family is 2309 Brook-land Dr. N£, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (He was writing from Washington, DC white attending an airline meeting for and with the Collins Radio Co. — now a 10-ycar-veteran with the firm.) George is in charge of one of the engineering division's senior technical staffs. Sa>-s he occa­sionalh' sees JOHN HAHLER on his way to his farm in Nebraska, Has also seen Father TOM DINGES on several occasions who he saj-s is cur­rently acting as the "Father Kchoe" of St. .Am­brose College. 
George admits to living a carefree life for some 12 years after graduation and then entered into a "mixed marriage.'* Per George: "married an Irish lass — mixed marriage with a German — named Helen Kennedy." They arc now very proud of their instant family of four — adopted in 1965: Kathy, ID; Richy, 7; Tommy, 6; Ray, 
5. What a great family! You do us proud, George and Helen. The AtUMNus* space limita­tions being what they are, I'll close by saying that the next news report will feature comments from 
and concerning GEORGE SCHROEDER, JIM 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

Rochester judge 
cases in all the courts of the western district of New York state. 
The city of Rochester appointed him corporation counsel in January, 1963, a position placing him in charge of 14 city attorneys. In ad­dition to handling the defense and prosecution of all suits for and against the city and the board of education, his oSce was called upon to render legal opinions for the city council, city manager and all other city agancies. 
Art has also been active in local politics, both as a leader of the 21st 
BYR.\E, JACK HALLOWAY, Dr. GEORGE MAHA, FR.\NK TRH'UCKA, JOHN ZEKAN, Fr. JOE HIPP, LEWIS SHIOLENO, CHARLIE HERINGER, HAROLD HOFFER, GEORGE TERLEP, TO.M GARGA.V and others. Tunc in. Belter yet, write in and keep mc hxisy. 
Finally — since thanks and repealed plaudits to Pete Kernan (Ford Motor Co.'s answer to .-Mfred Sloan) for waxing the mail chute with his classic Class letter. I'm confident his suggestion regard­ing the "thoughtful contribution** will reap tfie same abundant har^'est his second plea for new^ notes has borne. 
— LEO WESLEY, Secretary 

1950 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 Monserrafe St., CoralGables^Fla. 33146 
REUNION' REGISTRANT 

JOHN HILBRICH. 
Since I liavc exhausted the material some of 
you have sent me (those ivho liavcn't dropped mc a Hne as to what you are doing, where you're living and about your family and other ND men you'd like to licar from ' or have heard from, please write) — the best I can do is give you a capsule of the ne«-s of spring practice as gathered from the South Bend Tribune, so that you can get some idea of the fine upcoming sophomores and reluming juniors and seniors. 
Yo'i know the Varsity beat the Old-Timers only 33-0 because the Varsity's second-string main­ly played for the Old-Timers. The Varsity gained GOO yards ^vith sophomore quarterbacks Terry Hanralty (13 of 30 mostly lo end Jim Seymour) and Colcy O'Brien sharing about 79 passes out of 167 pbj-s. Larr>* Conjar had a great spring. Mike Burgcner, Il-Iettcr man in U.S., and QB Tom Schoen will alternate defensive safety. Jim Sey­mour will handte the punting as well as most likely receiver at end and Jim R>'an, the place­kicking. Fonner QB John Perginc is now a good middle linebacker. You'll sec new pass patterns with a corps of pass receivers: Jim Seymour, Nick Eddy, Dave Haley, Rocky BIcicr. Ara has the Blue teatn (olTense), Gold team (defense]. Green team (oltensive preparation team) and the Red team (defensive preparation team). Paul May, Don Gmittcr, Ed Zewinski and Joe Freebcrg had knee operations. Returning inside defensive h'nc­men include Alan Page, Kevin Hardy, Pete Du­ranko and Tom Rhoads. Sophomore Ed Vuillcniin %vill be ati outstanding nctv linebacker. Paul Snow, brotlicr of Jack, *64, is alternate split end with Seymour. Ara likes to alternate two QB's with one offensive team. George Sefcik b the oETcnsivc end coach. Besides Joe Yonto, Ara. has Wally Moore as freshman coach, Jcrrj- Wamspflcr ofFen­sivc line coach, Paul Shoults, Johnnie Ray and Tom Pagna. Hugh Devorc is off to the Houston Oilers and John Huartc uilh the Bo>lon Patriots. Ninety candidates came out for spring practice. 
Combined Offense: ENDS — Curt Hcncghin, George Kunz, Jim Seymour. Brian Stengcr, Mike Heaton, I*aul Snow, Jim Yacknow, • Jim Wine­gardner, Dan Dickman and Don . Gmitter. TACKLES —Rudy Konieczny, Paul Seiler, Bob Zubck, Bob Kuechcnberg, Ed Tuck, Fred Schnurr, Tom McKinley and Mike Bars. GUARDS — 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
Ward's Democratic committee and as an election candidate. In 1937 he ran for a seat in the city council and in 1960 he made a bid for the congressional seat from the 38th District. In 1965 Art was appointed city manager, a post he had held earlier in interim under several city administrations. 
World WEUT n saw him engaged in 31 months of active duty as a sergeant with the Air Force. After his discharge in 1946 he set off in pursuit of higher education—a path which led him to the universities of 
Dick Swatland, Tom Regner, Joe Marsico, Ron Jeziorski, Bill Dainton, Roger Fox, Angelo SchlralH, Tim Gorman and Bill Skoglund. CEN­TERS — George Goeddekc, Gerald Kelly, Steve Quinn and Tim Monty, QB — Hanratty, O'Brien, Schoen and Mike Brands. HALFBACKS — Rocky Bleier, Nick Eddy, Dave Halay, Jon Butash, Tim Wengierski, Chudc Landolfi, Pete Lamantia, Ron Orians, Tom Sletlvet, Dave Yonto, Ron Dushncy, Frank Criniti, Curt Hcneghan and Joe Azzaro. FULLBACKS — Larry Conjar. Paul May, Ed Vuillemin. Bob Hagcrty and Mike Earlcy. 
Some Defensive Personnel: ENDS — .-Mtcn Sack, Tom Rlioads, Bob Zubck, Cltarics Lauck. Alan Page, Bill Skoglund, Torn Ftirlong, Ralph Moore and Mike Malone. TACKLES — Kevin Hardy, Pete Duranko, Eric Norri, Pat Schroge, Harry Alexander, Ray Fischer, Bob Shechan and Vic Patcrnostro. LINEBACKERS — Dave Martin, John Perginc, Jim Lynch, Mike McGill, John Homey, Bob Hollzapfel, John Lavin, Dan Dick-man, Bill Bartholomew, Chuck Grable and Ed VuiKemin. BACKS — Dan Harshman, Tom O'Leary, Mike Burgencr, Jim Ryan, Jim Smilh­berger, Tom Reynolds, Dave Zurowski, Tom Schoen, Bill Mahoney and Kevin Rassas. 
Some Upcoming Sophomores: Stengcr, Yacknow, Kucchenberg, Datnton, Quinn, Fox, Snow, O'Brien, 
FRANK E. SUUIVAN '49 CLU has been elected to the presidency of the 1967 Million Dollar Round Table. He is the youngest man ever to hold this esteemed position as head of the life insurance industry's international or­ganization of fop salesmen. As pres­ident he will lead a yearlong plan­ning session culminating with the Annual Meeting in Lucerne, Switzer­land in June, 1967. He is currently vice-president of the Round Table and a member of its five-man govern­ing executive committee. With his wife and four children he makes his home in South Bend. 
Pittsburgh, Rochester and, finally, Notre Dame, 
There was evidence of his future 
success while he was a student at 
Notre Dame's Law SchooL He 
became a member of the editorial 
stEifE of the law review and by grad­
uation gave every indication that he 
was on his way to epitomizing "The 
Notre Dame Lawyer." He was grad­
uated cum laude—^fifth in his class. 
Arthur is married to the former 
Rosalie Noonan and is the father of 
six children. They live at 1705 High­
land Avenue, Rochester, N.Y. 
Brands, Butash, Orians, Criniti, Dushncy, Hagertr, 
Sletlvet, "tauck, Diclunan, Bars, Schragc, Noiti, 
Schiialli, Skoglund, Moore, Fiirlon^,' Wtnegaidner 
and Lavin. 
Purdue is the first game — Stepembcr 24. 
Don't forget to write. 
—JOHN W. THORNTON, Prtsident 

1951 
JAMES JENNINGS Borg-Warner Corp. 200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, III. 60604 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 16 

REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS ALFRED ABBEY, DAVID AMBERG, JACK ,VMRHEIN, WILLIAM ANHUT, DAN BAGLEY, 
J. ALBERT BAILEY, GERALD BARRAS, P.ATRICK BARRETT, JOHN BECKER, THOM­.•\S BECKMANN, JAMES BEGLEY, FRANK BEITER, ROBERT BERRY, JOHN BOEHM, THOMAS BOLAND, STEVE BOLANOWSKI, ROBERT J. BOYD, JA.MES BOYLE, ERWIN BRENDEL, LEO BRENNAN, PAUL BRUGGE­MAN, JOHN BUCKLEY, EDWARD BURKE, REV. BASIL BURKHART, ROBERT BURNS, LEONARD CALL, WILLUM T. CAREY, JOSEPH CHANIG.A, ROBERT CLEMENCY, WALTER CLEMENTS, DANIEL CONNELL, JOHN CORYN, JACK COTTON, JOHN CRIS­TIANO, FRANK CROVO, FRED CURTO, DON DANIELS, ROBERT DARLING, EUGENE De-BORTOLI, JOHN DEEB, CHARLES DESCH, MALCOLM DOOLEY, NORBERT DRZAZ­GOWSKI, JOHN DUFFY, ROBERT EOMOND­SO.V, PHIL FACCENDA, ANDREW FAIRLIE, RICHARD FELDPAUSCH, GUS FLICK, JAMES FLYNN, GILBERT J. FOX. BER.NARD FRANZ, JAMES W. FRICK, MAX GABRESKI, LAW­RENCE GALLAGHER, W. PATRICK GAL­L.\GHER, RICHARD GARRITY, JOHN T. GERLITS JR., JAMES GHIGLIERI, CLETE GILSON, CLAYTON GLASGOW, JOHN GLO­BE.\SKY, DAN GRACE, WILLIAM GREIP, DONALD GRIEVE, WILLIAM HAGAN, JOHN HALEY, JERO.ME HALLIGAN, HARRY J. HANIGAN, BERNARD J. HANK, WILLIAM HARTY, HERSCHEL HARVEY, ROBERT HAUTER, JACK HEGARTY, JAMES HENRY, ROBERT J. HENSLER, STEPHEN HERR, RICHARD A. HERRLE, EUGENE HOFFSMN, THOMAS HUBER, STANLEY J. INSLEY, JAMES JENNINGS, EUGENE JOHNSON, RAY­-MOXD JONARDI, JOHN J. JOYCE, WILLIA.M 
P. KELLY, JOSEPH KIENSTRA, THOMAS KIGIN, ROBERT KLINGENBERGER, DANIEL KOZAK, JAMES LaCES.A, JOHN LAN.AHAN, GEORGE LAUGHLIN, JAMES LAUGHLIN, BERNIE LAVINS, CARL LISH, THOMAS D. LOGAN, EDGAR LUCAS, CHARLES LUECKE, JOSEPH McATEER, ROBERT McGLYNN, JA.MES .McGUIRE, WILMER McLAUGHUN, RANDY McNALLY, JOHN McSHANE, JACK .MCVEIGH, J. RICHARD ItlacOONALO, HENRY 
T. MADDEN, JAMES MAHONEY, ROBERT J. MAHONEY, ROBERT MARGET, LARRY MAY, 
GEORGE FOSTER '52 f roze n FBI-iTian 
A N these hot summer days one 
often dreams of sitting buried under a mountain of snow. George Foster '52 had just such an experi­ence and for him it was a shivering nightmare. 
Early last March, shortly after he had been transferred to the FBI of­fice in Seattle, he set out to spend the weekend with his family in Wenatchee, Wash. The trip went un­usually well until he came abreast of the Lake Keechelus snowshed. Suddenly a snowslide pummeled tons of snow atop his car. "One red light, one stop along the way and I would have missed the slide." 
Buried beneath 20 feet of snow, he had no way of knowing when or if he would be rescued. So he began his own dig-out operations. Working by the dim glow of the stiU-operat­ing dome light he hacked at the enveloping snow with a tire iron. Exhausted and sensing the futility of his labors he crawled into the back seat and set up his long vigil. 
EDW.ARD MEAGHER, DAVID MEDWID, JACK MICHAELREE, JOHN MOORE. JACK MOR­GAX, JOHX .MULDOOX, FRAXCIS MULLER, JOH.V MURPHi', D.WID X.-\UGHTI.V, JOSEPH .XAUGHTOX, JOH.X .XE.\THERTO.\, ROBERT XICKODEM, MAURICE XOO.XA.X, JACK 0"BRIEN, MARTI.X O'COXXOR. RAY.MOXD O'CO.XXOR. RE.X O'CO.XXOR. CHARLES O'DO.VNELL, JAMES J. O'DOXXELL, D.WID O'LEARY, DE.XXIS J. P. O'.XEILL, CHUCK PAULER, CH.^RLES PERRI.X. MICHAEL PIARULLI, ROBERT PRUE, PATRICK PURDY, VIXCENT RAUTH, JOSEPH RIG..\LI, THOM.AS ROCHE, DO.XALD RODRIGUEZ, RUDY ROG JOH.V ROHRBACH, GEORGE S..\AD. XICHO­LAS SCALERA, D.WID SCHOEX, J.A.\IES SHEERIX, RICHARD E. SHIP.\MX, WILLLWI SIMPSOX, RALPH SJOBERG, THO.M.AS SMITH, EDWARD SULLIV.AN, EUGEXE TAYLOR, RICHARD TEPE. PATRICK TONTI LOUIS TRACY, WALTER J. TURNER, RICH­ARD UHL, HAROLD VAX TASSEL, JOHX voir , ROBERT WALLACE. ALLEX WARD, GEORGE WEBER. ROBERT WESTRICK, JAMES WETZEL, JOHX WHALEY. ROBERT WILDEMAX, GERRY WO.MBACHER, WIL­
LIAM WO.MBOCHER, RAY.MOXD YAXICS and JACK YOUXG. 
1952 
HARRY L BUCH 
600 Board of Trade BIdg., Wheeling, W. Va. 26000 
REU.N-IOX REGISTRAXT JOSEPH H.ARRISOX. 
1953 WALTER F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 
11006 Jean Rd. S.E. HuntsvHIe, Ala. 35803 
In response to a frantic call for assistance in injecting new life into *'Ye Oldc Cbss Column,'* BUD STUHLDREHER has volunteered to assume the duties of the Cbss scribe. Bud can be ad­dressed as follou-s: 11006 Jean Rd. S.E., Hunts­\-iIle, Ab. 35803. I hope you all will take careful note of this passing of the torch, and suggest that you welcome Bud to his new chores with a per­sonal note of congratulations (and some news for the column!). 
Actually, some of my recent plaintive cries for 
32 

£Tk 
Eight hours later, when the highway crew pulled his half-frozen body from the wreckage, all George could mutter was, "I'm cold." 
Later, from the safety and warmth of his hospital room he reflected upon the factors which kept him alive: "I believe that I survived due to my strong belief in God, to my being in excellent physi­cal condition and to the training I 
help have borne fruit, and there has been a slight filing' of activity around my mailbox in recent weeks. JOHN CLARK reported from Morton Grove, III., that the Clarks are about to add their fifth child. John is in the plastics business, and has occasion to see JLM PFOHL and PHIL CLEMENS frequently as thc>- are in the same line of work. John also reported that DICK MOLOKIE is now linng in Nfinneapolis. and that he frequently crosses patlis with JERRY and AL ELLSWORTH. Sorrj* to hear tliat Jerry has not been well lately, and could use our prayers for a speedy recoverx'. Many tlianks, John, for the news. 
ART HENKEN has been pursuing a rather curious route to the US Supreme Court. In 1962, Art left his position as principal of a grade school and was elected count\* judge of Clinton County, Illinois. Just to make it official, he then set about earning his lav*" degree from St. Louts U. in 1966, and was subsequently admitted to the Illinois Bar Just four years after becoming a judge! Art, we'll be most anxious to hear what you might do as an encore to tliat one. 
As far as I know. PAT DREW holds top honoi^ as the traveling man of '53. After service, law school (Columbia), four years with Gov. Dewey's law firm in New* York, and signing on with the .•\gcnc>' for International Development, Pat traveled and worked in India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Afghani­stan, Iran, Turkey, Cjprus and Greece. (Something to do with the Bengal Bouts, I understand.) While on tliis world tour, Pat met the future Mrs. Draw. Since lliat time, he took an assignment as director of Pri\-ate Enterprise in the AID program for Latin America, which resulted in two ^xars among the revolutions south of the border. Pat has just recently formed the bw partnership of Drew and Lambert in Washington, DC. 
I noted xia. a local newspaper clipping tliat 
PAT LEE was recently elected a vice-president 
of Ted Bates & Co., a Xe\%' York ad agency. 
Congratubtions, P. Lee. Other news which has 
fallen into my hands through our \'a5t under­
ground spy network: 
DR. BARING FARMER recently established his 
practice in Orthopedic and Hand Surgery in San 
Luis Obispo, Calif. GEORGE FARRELL has 
been named a vice-president in the international 
department of the Mellon National Bank and Trust 
Co. in Pittsburgh. ED McCARTHY was ranked 
6th among all the agents in the entire Massa­
chusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co. for the month of 
March. Dr. JIM PATTERSON is one of eight 
ph>*sicians who have volunteered for duty as part 
of Project Vietnam. The project recruits doctors 
received as a special agent of the FBI which helped me to act calmly and rationally." 
Like all such incidents, it had its brighter side. George not only sur­vived the accident, but he suffered only minor cuts and bruises. He and his wife, Rita, and their five children are now living in Seattle — all on the same side of the mountain once again. 
from throughout the US for short-term, unpaid service in Vietnam where the doctors will work in provincial hospitals among the sick and wounded Vietnamese ci\*ilians. 
DON ROSS has been appointed vice-president of public rebtions and development at Loyola U., New Orleans where he will coordinate the activi­ties of the offices of development, public rebtions and alumni. He is the youngest vice-president at any Jesuit school and the first la\-man to become a vice-president at Loyola. Major DON.ALD SENICH is completing work on his PliD at Iowa State in the field of soil engineering. He is doing work on the ice which forms deep in the soil and which may affect determinations in foundation engineering. BOB FINNEY has been appointed manager of S>'stenis Engineering for General Elec­tric Heavy Militar>' Electronics Department in Syracuse. 
Closing on a sad note, I must report the death of JIM GALLAGHER'S son, Jimmy, who Iiad been suffering with leukemia. He will most cer­tainly be remembered in our praj*ers, Jim. 
Once again, a reminder that the gavel is now in the capable hands of BUD STUHLDREHER, who I know will carr>' on in outstanding fashion as the Class scribe provided the vital artery from you to him keeps pumping the news. Thanks, Bud, for taking over and thanks to all of you who have helped me u"ith newsworthy notes over the past several vears. 
— DAVID A. McELVAIN, Secretary 

1954 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal Hill Blvd., 
E. St. Louis, III. 62203 
REUNION REGISTRANT ALBERT MUTH. 
Just eight years ago today (June 14), Marie and I wTere leaving a real swinging wedding re­ception, embarking on w*hat has turned out to be a wonderful, happy journey through time. A great deal has happened since then. I've learned a great deal; many new trades for instance. With three boys, I've become a pretty good barber, and, of course, like most of you I'm chief gar­bageman around here. One of the harder jobs I've come by is writing articles for the ALUMNUS xvithout material. But as you may have guessed, I like my work. I'd like it even better if some of you garfaagemen would write me some news once in a while. 
ALUMNUS JULY 196^ AUGUST 

ED MADIGAN has dropped me a couple of 
cards lately, first from Germany (mit Bier stains 
yet) and the second from Ceylon. The card from 
Ceylon pictured three elephants which Ed said 
reminded him of mc. I guess it u'as their strength, 
maturity, majesty and stablcncss, etc. I've noticed 
the resemblance, too, Ed. Thanks. 
JOE BANDIER.\, 75 Kaye-Uvc Dr., Hamdcn, Conn, is head football coach at Hamdcn High SchooL Joe was married last August to Jerilyn Faunce. Prior to his present position, Joe was basketball coach at Notre Dame High in West Haven. I liad a real nice letter from DICK MYLES. Dick has recently moved to 332 Dean St., Norwood, Mass. where he earns his keep as cditor-in-cliicf for Rust Craft Greeting Cards, Inc. Prior to this he was ^rith the Providence Journal and Evening Bulletin where he labored eight years OS a reporter. Dick finds tliat greeting card pub­lication Is a most interesting and creative phase of journalism. Dick is still single and has enjoyed it, making visits to Europe twice. (ND is a lot closer Dick and they are playing football again.) 
Keep those ALUMNUS postcards coming in, Gang. Had one from JIM BINCKLEY, 317 Ethyl PI., Anaheim, Cal. Jim and Polly have five chil­dren, three girls and twt> bo>-s. Jim is a licensed stnictural engineer and head of the structural engineering dept. for Kaiser Engineer's Los Angeles office. BOB DEWEY sent in a 12-year biography. A year or so after graduating way, u-ay back in *54, Bob joined the Counter-intelligence Corps and went through training with JOHN SMITH. Then off to Germany till '58. During his tour Bob married Martha Steele in Frankfurt (Mar. '57). Marty is of Holy Cross School of Nursing fame. They honc>'mooned all over Europe. In *59, Bob joined the Treasury Dcpt. (a "Fed'*) and is doing his best to hold down bootlegging in Rochester, N.Y. Bob was in N.Y. for a while and ran into JOE GALLAGHER at the courthouse, but as this is a 12-year letter it was some years back. Bob's active in the ND Alumni Club (atta boy) and promises to UTitc again in '78. Thanks. Whoops — Bob and Marty have two bo>Ts — Mike and Stc\'e-
A quickie from the HOWLEYs, GENE and Peggy indicate that they will be back as usual to our Reunion Party Game — Purdue — and they are looking for\rard to seeing all the gang again. How about you? You, I mean! Come back and sec your buddies; bring your friends. Everyone's welcome. 
Had a letter from Mary Ticmey, PAUL TIER-NEY's better half. (Bless you, Dear.) Paul is a sales representative for International Paper Co., Container Division. The Tiemcys have two chil­dren and they enjoy living way out in the country where the air is pure, near Wheaton, 111. The exact address is Harrick Road, Warrcnville, 111. Thcresc and DICK RYAL have five children and live now in Westficld, N.J. 
Another 12'year letter was received from JIM LOONAM, 3869 Grove Ct., Palo Alto, Cal. After seven years of bachelorhood, Jim got a basset hound and a wife as part of a package deal. The basset has had two litters and Joan and Jim have three girls of their own. Don't worry, Jim, by the time your girls are of age, ole ND will be coed. Jim heads up the regional office for Cos­tcllo & Co., an electronics sales rep firm. Jim has recently run into ED and DICK KELCH who are both with SyK'ania In Mountain View, Cal. 
Some short notes: JOE HELLING took part in an institute on municipal pbnning and land use at the spring meeting of the Indiana Bar Assn. at French Lick, Ind. (Knowing a little about French Lick I'd say he took part in some golf and booze, too.) THOMAS STAHL has started his own architecture firm of Pattee, Siahl and Wolf. J. A. REYNIERS is iiead of gcrmfrcc life research center in Tampa, Fla. ED TRUSELA will study at Harvard for a year ha\-ing been selected to receive a career education award by the National Inst, of Public Affairs. Ed is con­tracting officer at Wright Patterson AFB. 
I went sailing on Lake Alton with BOB CHICKEY, HERM KRIEGHAUSER and DICK ASH. We were guests of JACK POWERS '53. What a crew! We sailed all the way home. That's about it. See >*ou thb fall, after the Purdue game. Write. 
— NHLTON J. BEAUDINE, Secretary 

1955 
PAUL FULLMER 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago, III. 60645 
Please pardon my bursting buttons and exploding ceegars, but I'd like to quote a very important 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
announcement — "Mr. and Mrs. PAUL FULL­
MER are pleased to announce the adoption of 
a daughter, Monica Lewars, born April 14, 1966." 
Monica arrived at our house just in time for mc 
to collect Father's Day loot. Good timing. Old 
Man! 
While on the subject of birth announcements, 
PAT SHEEHAN and hb bride, Helen, welcomed 
their third girl, Jamie Melissa, on Apr. 3. JOHN 
CORBETT O'MEARA became a father again on 
^far. 20 and celebrated with an equally classy 
name, Corbett Edge O'Meara. 
DICK M/VNNION, now a communications spe­cialist with GE's space and missiles division in Philadelphia, jetted through to Houston. Although I wasn't home, the Quiet Man managed to en­gage Sandra in conversation from the airport for an hour. Wait until Carol hears about this, Dick! Another AB man, JLM BERGQUIST, just com­pleted a swing through the West after another teaching stint at Villanova. He ran into BOB BROWN and WARREN YOUNGSTRO.M at their 15-ycar high school reunion at Crcighton in Omaha. 
DICK BEEMi\N has been elected a director of the ND Club of Chicago. He tells me that JACK BLESSLTOX has been named headmaster of the original Montessort school in Whitney, Conn. Dick, LARRY BUCKLEY, JERRY HUGHES, R/\Y KE.\NEDY and all the other old buddies of TOM CASSIDY will be happy to know that the "Artful Dodger" has been nominated for Congress from the Peoria district. He has scni-cd as a special assistant attorney general on consumer frauds. Tom's dad is a former state attorney general. Another member of that famous group, JIM O'SHEA, \mtes to say that he'll bring the gin if I bring the vermouth to the Reunion after tlie Purdue game (see all of you then in the basement of the Morris Inn after the game). In addition to his "Jolly Jim" kids* show on TV, Jim is state editor of The Columbia (S.C.) Record. 
MIKE BANAS has been named "Alumnus of the Year" by St. Procopius College. He received his PhD from Notre Dame. MfKE HEGARTY has been elected treasurer of the ND Club of De­troit. Between Mike and ROY BEKLK.VAP, we should have that area under control. Father JOE O'DONNELL forces mc to print his name in each column, but does manage to send some news. He reports that JOH.N ROGERS was elected president of the Dallas Club. John and Theresa have two children. Father Joe saw JOHN TOLLE at the UND Night dinner in Dallas and reports that wedding bells were in the offing. LEE CRE.\N has enlisted the world's greatest handball player's help in forming an Organization '55 group in the South Bend area, similar to the one that MIKE KELLY has going here. Father Joe has been on "active duty" with the rcscr\-e (have bathing suit, will travel) at the Na\-al Air Station in .Alameda, Cal. He ran into PAUL KRIENKE there. Paul had ortlcrs to move to San Diego as an instructor in flight school. Before I forget it, the Organization '55 group in Chicago had a ball drumming JOE KEfVRNEY out of the bachelor ranks. 
D.-WE COHEN, \vho has several of his poems in Port Chicago Poets, just moved to 6640 N. Ashland, Chicago. A real baseball nut, Dave has gone out for the Reds and the Twins to pick up all the marbles. Let's sec how far wrong he is at the end of the season. JOHN KENNEDY has been named director of the Institute of Hydraulic Research at the U. of Iowa where he also is a professor in the department of mechanics and engineering. BILL LARKIN, chairman of the Xavier U. math department, was recognized by the Xarier chapter of Alpha Sigma Nu as "Teacher of the Year." All students had to bring big, red apples to the presentation ceremony. VERN WOLFF, senior research chemist for Du Pont, has been transferred to the experimental station lab near Wilmington where he \vill be responsible for studies on new "Surlyn" Dionomer dispersions (I only type these things. I'm glad that I don't have to understand w*hat they're talking about!). 
Brother PHILIP ARMSTRONG has been as­signed to St. John's secondary school in Sekondi, Ghana, Africa. In addition to his AB, Brother holds an MA in music and another in education administration. I don't know if someone is pulling my leg, but I have received notice that Father JAMES BLANTZ recently was elected ^'Magician of the Year"! He's president of Ring 168 of the International Brotherhood of Afagicians. (You're nothing without organization.) 
Military Bulletin Board — Capt. MARTIN MAHRT has been awarded the Air Force's air medal for meritorious achievement while partici­pating in aerial flights. He was cited specifically 
for his outstanding airmanship and courage in the 
successful accomplislmient of important missions 
under extremely hazardous conditions over Viet­
nam. Lt. ROCCO TANNONE has just moved 
back to Alameda, Cal. (Villa ^far^^a Apt 203, 
550 Central Ave.) Capt. JACK LEE can be 
reached at 3042 March St., Bunker Hill AFB, 
Peru, Ind. Still placing a little guard. Jack? 
Have a couple of new Chicago-area residents — 
DAN BURKE, 125 Hemlock St., Pirk Forest, 111., 
and DICK SCHEIBELHUT, 5550 N. Central 
Ave., Chicago. Others on the move arc PAUL 
FIGEL, 3006 Plaudit PI., Dalbs; HUGO HARDT. 
12200 Palm Springs Ave., Albuquerque; ED 
BORUS, 5110 Glenwood, Youngstown; Dr. TED 
LAUGHLIN, 605 Oak Hill Dr., Altamontc 
Springs, Fki.; and JOHN HOSINSKI. Box 957, 
State College, Ark. 
Our condolences to EMMET ROOT, whose 
father died March 14. A special Mass was offered 
for him on campus June 4. 
I don't often make a pitch in this column, but 
I thought I would pass along excerpts from a 
letter sent to me as Class secretary by our Indian 
classmate, P.AUL HAUHNAR—"If you arc a 
TIME reader, you might have seen what hap­
pened in India in the Mar. 25 issue. The TIME 
publisher also pointed at the map — a stricken 
area in the state of Assam — called 'Mizo Tribe 
Revolt.' And now, I am going to write to you 
exacUy what happened since the revolt and wiiat 
you and your good friends can do for the Avar 
victims. First of all, let me give the statistics of 
the war damages: (1) Number of houses burned 
at Aijal and in the villages are estimated at 1,500, 
meaning about 7,500 to 8,000 persons including 
women and children now are homeless; (2) Num­
ber of persons displaced or unemployed due to the 
war/revolt, 20,000; (3) .Approximately estimated 
value of properties lost in terms of US dollars, 
5100,000,000. From these statistics you will be 
able to c\*aluatc what damages the so-called revolt 
had caused to the MIzo people — my people! The 
actual number of casualties is not yet known, 
but it is estimated at more than 300 during a 
week's bloody fight." Paul continued with com­
plete background on the events leading to the 
revolt in his area, which was converted to Ca­
tholicism by Holy Cross Fathers. He concludes: "A 
committee, consisting of 18 members, has been 
organized. The most Important duty is to give 
relief to the war victims of Aijal and in the 
villages to act as liabon between the underground 
MNF men and the Indian government. It is a 
hard task, but someone has to do it and do it 
well. To feed more than 30,000 persons and help 
them find houses and transport them to pbces 
where they can find jobs, the committee requires 
funds. As sccretarj* of the committee, I have sent 
out an appeal to friends In India. As I also 
Iiave many good and benign friends in the States, 
I am sending this humble letter to you to request 
you to find u-a^-s and means of getting help on 
our behalf. HERE IN THE MIZO HILLS, $5 
WILL FEED A BABY FOR ONE WHOLE 
MO.VFH. SO THERE IS NO GIFT THAT IS 
TOO SM.\LL. If and when any help is sent. It 
m.iv be sent to me (PAUL Z. H.-\UHNAR) THROUGH THE FIRST N.ATIONAL CITY BANK OF NEW YORK TO THEIR OVLCUTTA BRANCH. So much for now, I^ul, and thanks a million. Please pray for the MIzo Tribe." 
If you have anything left In the account after sending Paul that check (wc do have it pretty nice here, >*ou know) keep George Shclton's Class Agent appeal in mind. Four classes have higher percentages than we do, so let's get going and remember the Class motto. *'Hey, We're Num­ber One!" See you at the Purdue game and post-game reunion. 
— PAUL FULLMER, Secretary 

1956 
ALVIN D. VITT 4 Windrush Creek W., Si. Louis, Mo. 63141 
REUNION 
SEE PAGE 18 

REUNION REGISTRANT JOHN ADAMS, WAYNE AICHROTH, RICH­ARD ALLISON, KENNETH ANDRE, THOMAS 
J. ARNOLD, DAVID AUSTGEN, ANTHONY BALAVrrCH, RICHARD BARTSCH, PAUL P. 
W. BEREZNY, FRANCIS BEYTAGH, JOSEPH BILL, GEORGE P. BLAKE. PHILIP J. BOH­NERT, DONALD BOMALASKI, ANT)REW W. 
33 
BORACZEK, JOHN BOWER, PHILLIP BRADTK.E, JAMES W. BREHL, EUGEXE F. BRE.V.N'AN, JOH.V BRE.V.VAX, LUKE BREX­NAX, JOII.V W. BRODERICK, BILL BROU­CEK, GEORGE BROUCEK, RICHARD BROWN, ROBERT BURKE, M.ARK P. BURXS, PETER C.AXNOX, THOMAS CAPLET, FRANK­LIN CAPPELLI.VO, DO.VALD CARLI.X, ROB­ERT CARRAXE, JOHN J. C.\SEY, TON-V CASTORI.NA, PHILIP CENEDELLA, F.\THER THOM.\S CH.AMBERS CSC, D.WID CLARK, RICHARD CL.-\RK, P.ATRICK COG.VN, D.WID COLLINS, FRAXK CO.VTE, CHARLES CO-X­WAY, JOHN CORBETT, EDW.\RD C. COS­GROVE, DO.XALD COSTELLO, JAMES R. COSTELLO, JOHN CUPPER, CHARLES B. CUSHWA HI, GEORGE DAILEY. D.WID DAVI.N, KENNETH D.WIS. J.-\MES DEG.NAN, D.ANIEL C. DEVINE, GORDON DiRENZO, HENRY DIXO.V, JOH.X DO.X.NELLY, R.-\Y DREXLER. JACK DU.MAS, ROBERT J. DUNE­GAN, GEORGE DURKIN, HARRY DUTKO, WILL1.AM ENGEL, JOHN EXGLER. JOHN FANNON, JACQUES FIEHRER, JOSEPH FIN.X, JI.\f FI.VNEGAN, ROBERT G. FISHER, PETER FOY, EUGENE G.ASE, S.\M GER.\RDI, JOHN GOEDECKE, EDWARD GILBERT. D.WID GRAXGER, JOH.X K. GSCIIWIXD, JOIIX GUEGUEX, J.\CK HAG.^X. GER.\I.D H.\RR, EVER.ARD HATCH, WILLIAM HAUSER, BART HEXSELER, JERRY H. HIGGIXS. JA.MES R. IlILGER JR., JA.MES R. HL.WLX, JOSEPH HON.X, THOMAS K. HUBBARD, WILLI.^I JACKMAX, KEVIN A. JOYCE, PAUL KEAR­NEY, JOE KEEXA.X, JOILX KEGALY, JOHN KELLY, JOSEPH KELLY, L.\URENCE KEN­NEDY, JOH.X KE.XXEDY, .MICHAEL J. KILEY, CHARLES KIXG, T. G.WIX KIXG, FRANCIS KITTERIDGE, BER.XARD KOSSE, PHILIP KRAMER, JAMES C. KREBS, ED­WARD KSENIAK, PAUL LaFRENIERE, JOHN LEACH, LEO J. LI.XBECK, JOH.X LI.VEHAX, ELLIOTT LISK, MICHAEL LUBERTO, PAT­RICK Mca\RTAX, ROBERT McCARTHY, TIM 
MCCARTHY, J.^XIES MCDOXAGH. ROBERT L. MCGOLDRICK, JEROLD MCPARTLIX, TED XL\DDE.V, LOUIS .MALAXDR:\, DEXXIS MALEC, JOHX M.^LLOY, JOHN M.VXIOX, THO.MAS .M.AX.V, JAiiiES -M.VSSEY, GER.\LD MASSEY, ROBERT .M.\TTHEWS, WILLLAM XL\TTHEWS, NICK MAVLANO, REV. J. DAVID MAX, J.AMES MEH.VRY, JIM MEXSE, J.\MES MIL.-\S, JOSEPH MILLER, CHUCK MILLI­GAX, REV. MICILAEL -MOO.XEY, DO.XALD MOSER. W. JOSEPH MULFLUR. ROBERT MULDOON, XURTIN MULLARKEY, THOM­AS W. -MULLARKEY JR., P.\UL XOL.\ND, REV. J.AMES O'BRIEN, EUGEXE O'CONNOR, JOSEPH O'CO.X.XOR, .M.\TT O'CG.X.VOR, RICHARD O'COXXOR, LEO D. ODOXXELL JR., HE.XRY OLBRICHT, CLEMENT O'NEILL, ROGER O'REILLY, D.AXIEL O'SIIEA, LEE OSTER, WILLIAM P.WIX, JOHX PATZ, JAMES PHILLIPS, JOH.X C. POLKI.VG, DE.X­NIS E. POWERS, RICHARD PR.\THER, J.AMES QUETSCH, DA.XIEL QUIGLEY, RICHARD QUILLIN, JAMES E. RAMM, CHRISTOPHER REFTZE, JAMES REVORD. ROBERT RICH­ARD, JERRY RIGSBY, RICH.ARD H. RUPP, 

J. DE.X.XIS RYAN, JAMES RITHER, ROBERT SALVIXO, NORMA.\ S.WOLSK1S, DOX.ALD SCH.AEFER, JI.M SCHUEl^, EDWARD SEX­AUER, T. WEBB SEXTOX JR., .AN'THON'Y SILVA, ROBERT J. SIMKIXS, DONALD SXIEGOWSKI, W. PATRICK S.XYDER, ED­WARD SPENGEMAX, WILLIAM SQUIRES, HAL SPEXCER, -M.ATT ST.AHL, WILLIAM STOTZER. JEROME V. SWEEXEY, ALVIN SZEWCZYK, BILL TESCHKE, FRANK TIGHE, BURT TOEPP, CONNELL TRI.MBER, BERNARD VanETTEN, AL VIROSTEK, ROGER WACHE.XDORF, THO.MAS WACE.MA.X, DO.X­ALD W.ALZ, WILLIAM K. WARREN, FR. JAMES WATSON, WALTER WEBER. JOHN WEEKS, WILLIAM WELDON, ROBERT J. WELSH JR., D.WID WE.XTLING, DAVID J. WEST, JOHN WESTHOVE.X, .MARTIN WHALEN, D.ALE E. WHFrE. SIDNEY WILK­I.\, DR. EDW.ARD J. YAROLIN and GEORGE Z1.M.\IERM.AN. 
1957 — 
JOHN P. McMEEL 30 E. 42nd St, New York, N.Y. 10017 
Word has been received that EDWARD J. AYER S has been appointed as chief inspector of the cold strip mill of ihc Bciljlchcm StccI Corp.'s Lackaw-anna plant. Brings to mind another big steel magnate in JOHN DAYTON KING who holds down a major supcn'isory position for Na­tional Steel in Gary. WILLIAM THEES has joined Hoover Ball and Bearing Co. as director of Industrial Relations for the Ball Division plants. Do our fellow Class Mcmbrrs make good in every direction? Take, for instance, MAURICE MAY­NARD*S wife Peggy \vho was recently crowned ifrs. New York State in the preliminaries to the Mrs. America contest in San Dicgo. Yep, you guessed it — the Ma>-nards arc the proud parents of eight which I am sure puts Maurice in the lead position among tlic Class. Do wc Iiavc any challengers? Congrats to the MajTiards and wc will be cheering you all the \oy. 
Cape BRIA.N P. McM.-\I10.\ has been awarded the Air Medal at Misawa .Air Base, Japan. He w-as cited for personal bravery and airmanship in the Vietnam war. Congrats, Brian, we owe ^tm much. How about BERNIE LYONS? We know he is also doing more than Ii£s share in the skies over Indochina and would like to know his present position. EDWIN McCRORY JR. has been appointed Houston plant manager of Plastic Appli­cators, Inc. Capt. JOE SCH.\FFERS has been named a distinguished graduate in his class at the Air University's Squadron Ofiicer School at Max­wcll AFB. He is now assigned to OITutt AFB, in Omaha. I hope Joe looks up a good friend, JIM BALDINGER, who holds down a captain's post. (Also good on holding the dry martinis.) DAN KELLY was elected 2nd vicc-prcs. of ND Chib of Detroit. JI.M GREENE is now contTOllcr for the New England region of Allstate Ins. Co. 
J. J. QUINN reports in that he is completing his 4th year as an MD in the US Nax-y. He is also finishing a 2-ycar readcncy in general prac­tice at the US Naval Hospital in Jacksonville, 
seeker, defender and 
WHEN HE agreed to take the case of the ex-Navy steward, Richard Murphy '58 was a fledgling attorney whose experience in court was far exceeded by that of his client When the case was decided almost two years later, Dick had become a na­tionally known attorney and his client was reinstated in the honor of his country. Dick had just graduated from Boston University's law school — cum laude—^and had been newly ad­mitted to the Bar in Massachusetts when his father, Timothy J. Murphy, brought to his attention the case of Hubert Ashe. Knowing that Dick 

Fla.. Completion date was July. J. J- joumc>-ed over to Ft. Sam Houston in San Antonio and stumbled into a bad group consisting of BOB DESMOND wlio had just been drafted into the Anny as an MD. Bob tliinks he is headed for Germany. Nice pbnning, kid. Dr. TOM RUSH is in the same position and also headed for Ger­many, The draft is really hitting the medical field and TOM 0*AL\LLEY who is an ophliialmologist was being sent to Ft. Hood, Tex. Dr. JOE SMITH who is specializing in internal medicine is headed for Italy and the good w*ine. J. J. goes on to relate that FRANK FISHER is at the U. of Florida as a resident doctor. Don't know what Frank ts specializing in. Thanks a million, 
J. J. By tlic way, his new address h US T^aval Hospital, Na\-al Academy, Annapolis, Md. Flash . . . Fiash .. . a PS on J.J.*s note clears up the biggest mj'stery guest of our Class — PAT WILLL\MSON. Pat has his own business in Mt. Vernon, 111. The nature of Pat's occupation is unknown but at least wc know tliat Jie is still among tlic breathing. 
A good report from TOM NOWAK that BILL BURG is traveling internationally as a process engineer for Universal Oil Products. He was last seen in Pucrtoltano, Spain but should Iiave finished tliat assignment and started a new one m Eg}pt. Dr. *'DING DONG" BILL BELL was married May 14 in Washington^ DC to Barbara Bostock who is at Johns Hopkins in Baltimore. JOHN MICHNO tied the knot with Judy Strom and tficy are living in Chicago. John is conducting his own business which is selling processing equip­ment to tljc clicmical industry. Gads, TOM NOWAK is married. It took pbcc in Milwaukee on June 25 and the young miss is Carol Ann Miller. Tom has left Olin ^fathicson in Joliet and is now working for the Pclron Corp. in Lyons, in. Congrats, Tom, and now you will Ijavc to work harder than you ever did before. Two can live cheaper than onc^—some dame started that rumor. Tom is interested in knowing the where­abouts of JERRY VANDENBOOM. Thanks for j-our cfTorts, Tom. Tlicy arc much appreciated. 
JOHN BOLGER reports in from Harrisburg, Pa. that he married a sweet thing called Molly from Schuylhill Haven, Pa. and they arc expecting a little Bolgcr in Sept. John is making plenty of money in sales for Automatic Electric Co. Every once in a while he hears from RED RYDER residing Jn Rirk Forest, 111. with wife and family. John thinks Red is with the OH Daily in Chicago. Dr. BOB MORAN was also in touch. He is practicing in Buffalo and is tlic parent of two. The SOLOMON bo>-s arc still in the East. D.AVE is in New York living out in New Providence, 
N.J. JOHN is an architect in Altoona. PHIL BORXHOFER is an architect in New York and still proudly bears the single mantle. Where are BILL JOLLY, CHARLIE DOHERTY and DICK EISENGRUBER? I can te« John that CHARLIE McKENDRICK is living in New Orieans. Thanks for all the news, John, and the best to you and Molly. 
LEE AYOTTE reports in from Columbus, O. and inquires about JERRY LONDON. He saw MAX OLINGER at the MSU game. Max is a big constructionecr in St. Louis. Lee and Betty 
 champion 

was capable of a winning battle—a not, in dear conscience, defend both Bengal Bouts chemip at Notre Dame the accuser and the accused. The in '56 and '57—his father suggested court refused the petition of the he continue the 20-year fight of the counselor, found Ashe guilty, sen­former sailor to establish his in­tenced him to a five-year prison nocence and reverse the dishonorable term and a dishonorable discheirge. discharge. Convinced both of his client's in­
Ashe and two companions had nocence and of the violation of his been accused of beating and knifing rights by the military court, Dick another sailor in Puerto Rico while formulated his case and personally on leave in 1940. At the court-argued it before the US District martiad, one of the sailors changed Court. Faced by legal intricacies his testimony from endorsing Ashe's and an article of military justice innocence to accusing him of partic­which prevented civilian courts from ipating in the crime. The Navy reviewing court-martials, he had a commander acting as defense coun­difficult battle. sel advised the coittt that he could 
Failure in the district court did 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 

Lou have one fullback and three lovelies. Ride, 
the lad, vdil not follow in the big basketball shoes 
of his father but is a good dash man. Thanks, 
Lee. 
A real blockbuster. My wedding was just too 
much for JOE REICH so on his way home he 
decided to join the ranks and come December 
will take Annie for his bride. Think it will take 
place somewhere in Oklahoma but could possibly 
be held in Dallas, the scene of the proposal. Joe 
fought a gallant fight but he just looked in the 
mirror once too often — shades of Dorian Grey. 
More to report on this carthshakcr in the next 
column. By Ovs ^"ay, I was informed of the 
preceding event via Joe one morning at three 
o'clock. It was a collect call to top it all off. 
JIM WEBER is still living in Canton hut work­ing for the Akron Beacon Journal wiierc he is their top labor reporter. Look out, Victor Reisel. Will have the good fortune tonight (June 17) to be in the company of three of our /cading mem­bers. The great JACK CASEY and wife, Joan, who are liwng in Forest Hills but due to move to New Jersey. Jack is the "Citizen Kane" of the Point of Sale advertising world. Nan and JERRY BECHERT arc now living in Wayne, 
N.J. while Jerry fakes it out for International Selling Corp. ^vhJch represents one of Gen. De­Gaulle's steel firms. I was al^rays suspicious of Jerry's "flag waving'* behavior. Now we know the true stor^*. Cathy and MARK MALEY live in Bronxville while Mark commutes to the Empire State Bidg. daily to make more money for Mon­santo Chemical. You can usually see Mark's pic­ture on the cover of the New Yorker. It should be a good time to see who can outbluff whom. I have already rented my Hertz Cadillac but I expect Casey wiJI do me one better. Had the opportunity of visiting with Janie and DON BARR in Paris. The old man looks just great and is the big honcho in production for TIME and LIFE International. They even s^vc up their Ia«sh bedroom to take in a poor penniless young groom trying to impress his bride. Only American Express knows. 
Also had the opportunity of seeing DICK BROWN in Miami. Dick is Ii\-ing in Ft. Lauder­dale and is doing great things with 3-^f. A new real estate magnate has come upon the scene. This is the one and only BOB ECKLAND who also made the Miami scene and who they say is controlling most of tlic real estate in Lomsxille while doing great things for Johns-Ma nWIIe. Tha control also covers many of those Southern belles. Donna and FRANK HENNESSEY made it to Miami along with Pat and TOM DOYLE. Frank is still running the Chicago Tribune and Doyle controls the flower distribution to Lynchburg's iinest. 
We arc in the process of planning a reunion after the Army game in South Bend on Oct. &• By the time this is printed it should be firm and you wll be receiving a letter notifying you of such. Once more it is in tlie very capable Iiands of DENNY TROESTER. Let's have a big turnout. 
Our s>*mpathy and prayers to ORLANDO MAIONE whose mother died on Feb. 9 of this year. Please remember her in your prayers. 
Richard Murphy '58 
not deter Dick Murphy and he car­ried the case to the appellate court in Boston. There his case—that the court-martial had been void from the beginning—^was won. The court recommended a reversal of the de­cision and after 20 years Hubert Ashe was given an honorable dis­charge. 
Dick Murphy is now an assistant district attorney, an oflBice which he accepted in 1963, and a member of the law firm of Murphy, Lamere and Murphy. He is married to the former Barbara A. Buckley. With their four children they live at 3 Cedar Dr. in Canton, Mass. 
The Big One — lO-Ycar Reunion — is coming up next June. Start majn'ng those plans now to be there. —JOHN McMEEL, Secretary 
1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 1709 Indiana Ave., LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
The news for this issue, somewhat sparse, is as 
follo^ra: Congratulations arc in order for Rev. 
JOHN CARLIN who was ordained to the priest­
hood en May 14 at Sacred Heart Cathedral, 
Salina, Kan. After graduation in '58, Father 
John spent two years in the Army at Ft. Benning 
and Ft. Riley. Prior to entering the seminary at 
Conception, ^fo. he was a representative of Fort 
A- Zachary & Assoc, of Wichita. 
BOB TAYLOR of 191 MilJcrcct Dr., Chester­field, Ind. is district manager with the Dodge Div. of CIir>'sler. He is married and the father of three daughters, Lynn, Kathy and Susan. 
TOM O'REGAN dropped us a note to the effect that he will be married, July 9, at St. Francis Xavier Churcli, Wilmettc, lU. to Miss Kathleen Brummel. Tom is practicing law" wth the firm of Riordan & Malonc in Chicago. His address: 6015 N. Claremont Ave., Chicago, III. 
NEAL SWEENEY was married in Sept., 1962, to the former Marie Frasco in New Hyde Park, 
N.J. They now have one son, Ncal Jr., and were expecting another arri\'al as of May of this year. Ncal is employed in Nc^v• York City by the M. W. Kellogg Co., an engineering contractor. In the line of his work Neal has in the past t^vo years made five trips to Malaga, Spain. In June of 1965 he received his MSChE at New York U. The Swecne>3 address is 42 Madison St., Franklin Square, N.Y. 
BILL QUINLAN is now residing ^v•^th his spouse and three children at 2865 State St., San Diego, Bill left the Marine Corps as a captain in 1964 and is now ^vorking as a special agent in the fidelity and surety line for Travelers Ins. Co. Bill would be eager to engage any classmates in the area in a round of squash or handbalL He also reports that JOE BREIDE.\STEIN is general sales manager for a real estate development firm in Michigan. Bill would like to hear from DICK MURPHY, JOHiX SENG. MIKE MOTTER and "BULLET" BOB BUSKER. 
GLENN SHELDON. 887 Glemray Dr., Apt. 36, Englcivood, Cal. is presently employed as an editor for Douglas Aircraft in Los Angeles. Following graduation he spent two years in the Army on a Series of assignments ranging from Spokane to Plattsburgh, N.Y. Glenn was married on Jan. 29, 1966 and has been ivwrking towards a master** degree in English at UCLA. 
ROBERT BORCHERS was cited for teaching excellence and received a $1,000 award at a U, of Wisconsin faculty meeting recently. He is an assistant professor in the department of phjisics. 
JOHN J. COLLIS has been appointed to the newly created position of manager of corporate development for the Clark Equipment Co. o£ Buchanan, Mich. 
i • - ••• 

^m^ 
i^pS 
o 
THOMAS P. MOORE H was elected secretary 
for the NO Detroit Club. 
Capt. JOSEPH D. SCHAEFER was graduated. 
from the Air Univcr»tys Squadron OfiBcers School 
at Maxwell AFB, Ala. where he was selected for 
the special profesuonat officer training in recog* 
nition of fits potenual as a leader in the aero­
space force. He is reassigned to Malnutrom AFB, 
Mont 

NEIL A. BANCROFT has been appointed 
ad^osory officer of Teachers Ins. and Annuity 
Assn. and the College Retirement Equides Fund. 
JAMES J. VEGH is purchasing agent vnih the 
J. J. Heinz Co. in Pittsburgh and a captain ia the Army Reserves with the position of battalion adjutant and detachment commander. 
That's the extent of the news for aow, but before closing let me announce once again the cbte of our annual after-game rcuniba. The fcs­tiii-ititt will occur in the %fahogany ROOK of the Morris Inn on Oct. 8, following the Arvy game. 
— ARTHUR L. ROULE JR., Secretary 
1958 Low 
JOHN F. MARCHAL 
Marchal & Marchal, 
T16-n8 W. 4rhSh, 
Greenville, Ohio 45331 
1959 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 2680 Lehman Rd., Apt. 42 Cincinnati, Ohio 45204 
CHRIS FAGAN writes that he graduated from 
Georgetown Law School in June, 1965 and was 
admitted to the Ohio bar in October, 1965. He 
works as a patent attorney with Eaton Yale & 
Townc, Inc. in Cleveland. His family is growing 
tv-ith Oiree daughters and a fourth child on the 
^vay. Chris lives at 27301 Sidney Drive, No- 32, 
Euclid, Ohio 44132. 
Chris furnishes the follo^v^ng information: JOHN 
HAYWARD received the highest score on the 
ifarch Oliio bar examination. TERRY PLUN­
KETT is teaching English at Manhattannlle Col­
lege. Terr>- and Anne have three children and 
live at 56 Oneida Ave., Croton on Hudson, New 
York. Capt. JOSEPH L. SCHAEFER USAF is 
married to an Air Force nurse he met in Texas 
and they have recently been transferred to Ger­
many ^vhere they expect to stay two to three 
years. Joe's current address is: Det 34, 7200th 
Support Group, APO New York, 09333. FR.ANK 
LAVELLEE and wife, Jan, formerly of Cleveland 
fame, have moved to Chicago with their family 
of four little ones. Frank Is an area technical 
consultant for the Torrington Mfg. Co. EMIL 
ZERNICK is with Westinghouse in Pittsburgh. 
Thanks, Chris! 
BERNARD GILLESPIE has joined Socony-Mobilc Oil Company as a research engineer at their Paulsboro, N.J. lab. BILL FLYNN has been in the Air Force since graduation and is working On his master's degree in accounting at Michigan State. Capt. ROBERT H, ROBBEN JR. has completed specialized pilot training at Tinker AFB, Okla. in the Jet transport, the C-I41 Star-lifter. Bud is being assigned to the Military Air­lift Command at Travis AFB, Calif. SISTER 
MARY B.AYLON LENZ OSF (MA '59 and PiiD '62) was elected chairman of the faculty at Briar Cliff College, Sioux City, Iowa, where she is chairman of the department of English and of the division of humanities. Dr. PHILIP F. WINSKUN/\S is now serving as a naval flight surgeon aboard the USS Hancock, and a sta­tioned at Lemoore, Calif. 
MICK SV:^DSTROM writes from \ictoam where Chu Lai is his "home away fitnm home until November or December." He is flue to get out of the Navy on 15 January of next year and adds, "This time I am going to e^t." Word from Illinois is that Mick uill run for the Illi­nois state legislature in 1968. Meanwhile his ad­dress is: Lt. A. J. Sundstrom, Naval Support Fadlity, APO San Francisco, CatiL 96325. Since graduation FRED MILLER attended U. of Penn­sylvania Afed School, interned at ACserkordia Hosp. in Philly, spent one year in internal medi­cine residency at Gnsinger Medical Center in Danville, Pa. and is now in the first year of a three-year dermatology residency at Gdittnger. Fred married Joan Dav^n and they have a son, Gregory, age one. Their home is 361 Ccdicge Hil), Bloomsburg, p3. 
By now* c\'eryone should have beard from FRANK R. REYNOLDS JR. concerning Class 
ALUMNUS JULY 19«« AUGUST 
participation in the Annual Alumni Fund. Buddy is our Class Agent in addition to his duties with Rc>-nolds & Reynolds, Attomc>-s at Law, 111 West Washington St., Chicago. JOHN CORTESIO's wife Barbara gave birth to their third child, Angela, on Jan. 18. They Iiavc two other chil­dren, Maria (4) and Michael (3). Last August, John finished a tlirec-ycar tour of dutj* with the Army Judge Advocate General's Corps, during which time he was in the Gov*t .Appellate Div. in Washington (same ofijcc as MIKE PHENNER)­John is now practicing law in Dcs Moines, and living at 4777 Park\-iew Drive in that city. 
TOM WHITMAN'S ncu- address is 300 North Highland, Apt. 15, Memphis. Tenn. Tom married Kay Handwcrkcr (SMC '63) on Nov. 27, 1965 in Memphis. They have been living in New York where Tom is a trainee with Goldman, Socks and Co., an invcsuncnl banking house. JIM DULAN is now in the public relations depU of AT & T in Neu- York where he has lived for four years. Jim married a native New Yorker, Kaihy McNamara, a graduate of St. John's. Jim was elected to the board of governors of the NY Young Republican Club and spent his spare time last fall doing i-omc of the wTiting for John Lind­say in his successful campaign for mayor-" I guess that establishes me as a liberal Republican from the East," slates Mr. Dulan. The Dulans can be found at 3413 Avenue H, Brookl>-n, N.Y. 
In a recent column it was reported that TOM C.'\RROLL is a potential \-ice-prcsident of LcveT Bros. Well, Tom is a potential vecp, but witli Procter & Gamble. Tom claims that since our error appeared, "Two gu>-s who appear 99 and 44/100% pure have been following mc, investi­gating me as a possible double agent." The Car­roll clan (two boj-s and St- Mar>-'s wife) have been in Cleveland since January- where Tom is tlic Clci-cland district sales mgr. of P & G^s toilet goods business. Other news from Tom is tliat GREG DEVERS SJ is now a Jesuit scholastic, teaching at Xa\-icr High School in N^'C, _ and that Greg has forgotten all past hell raising, BILL McCULLOUGH is slightly heavier, pros­perous and has a daughter and wife who arc much better looking. Bili is working in marketing for International Paper in New York- LARRY "Playfair" WENTZ used the non-commercial oc­casion of the Army-ND game to hit Tom up for a pitch on an insurance polic>*. 
ED PAULSEN joined Household Finance Corp. in New York and with wife and new baby, seems to enjoy the life of a countr>' gentleman survey­ing the world from his new castle in Westchester County. DUNCAN "Wildroot" LaVIGNE is still in Cincinnati with Brunswick Corp. *'Comy" HAUGH has turned from Midu*stcm farm boy to New York sophbticate. He even drives like a cabdriver, and works for HFC in the big dty. Last fall, DICK TR.AN'T became an Irishman for one night and danced a jig in a bar on New York's Third Ave. at 3:00 a.m. Dick seems to be llie entrepreneur of our Class with a new house in Boston and his fingers in many business ven­tures in the Boston area. 
Tom continues by saying that MIKE H.ALPIN 
is a professional bachelor, but looking over the 
ctimcnt crop of co-eds at U. of Pcnnsy-h-ania­
**Mikc still plans on teaching, seems to be a lot 
smarter than I, and has the degrees to prove it-" 
FRANK MOONEY, a lawyer in NYC, ". . . used 
to dale my wife while at ND and the old bachelor 
managed to turn on the charm. I've had to take 
charm pills ever since," according to Carroll. 
Every married man is cn«ous of WARREN AL­
BRIGHT'S bachelor pad, maid, good-looking girl 
friend and money enough to afford Scotch- War­
ren is going extremely well as an account super­
\"isor on the American Homes Prods account of 
one of the major agencies. Many thanks to T, P. 
Carroll for his nev\-s contribution to this column. 
The sympathy of the class is extended to BILL FLYNN and to BILL McNALLY on the recent draths of their fathers. Father O'DonncU re­membered them in Masses offered on the campus. 
— JOE MULLIGAN, Secretary 
1960 
JOHN F. GEIER 
1045 Linden Ave., Wilmetfe, III. 60091 
1961 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 Scrivo Dr. Warren, Mich. 48092 

REUNION 
SEE PAGE 19 
REUNIO.N REGJSTRA.NTS 

R. WILLIAM AMAN.V, KENNETH ANDER­SON, TERRENCE ANDREW, ARTHUR AR­MENTO, MIKE B.^^ER, ARTHUR BARILLE, BEN.NY BARONE, CHARLES B.ARRY, WIL­LIAM BE.N'DER, JHCHAEL BERGEN, JOHN BIRD, PAUL BOGN.^R, JOH.\ BOWLING, ROBERT BREWKA, WILLI.\M D. BRODE­RICK, JOHN CAHALAN, PATRICK CALLA­HAN, THOMAS a-\RPENTER, JOHN CATE, ROBERT CHOU, EUGE.VE CIESLA, JA.MES COLLINS, THOM.AS CONNEELY, JOHN J. COONEY, DAVID COR.\aER, MIKE CRONIN, WILLUM F. CRONIN, ROBERT CU.M.MINGS, JOHN J. CUNNINGHAM, MARTIN D.\LEY, TED DAWSON, RICHARD J. DORG.^N, THO.M­AS EMMER, LARRY ERICKSON, JAMES FAHY, PHIL FARLEY, CH.\RLES FER.\ALD, MI­CHAEL FitzGIBBON, P.\UL FLEMING, ROB­ERT A. FRATES, TOM FREEMAN, HENRY 
L. FROM.MEYER, WILLIAM CALVIN, REV. THO^US GARDOCKI, REV. MOSE GLYNN, CARL COY, JOHN GRACE, NEDDY GRANT, ROBERT GUNN, ALAN H.«nLTON, WIL­LIAM HANLEY, PATRICK HART, ROBERT HARVEY, WILLUM HENNEGH.AN, MARVIN HIRN, PHILIP HOFF.MAN, DENNIS JOHN­STON, EDWARD K.ANE. WILLIAM C. KEAR­NEY, WILLIAM KECK, JOHN KEEGAN, THO.XUS KING, EDWARD KO.MPARE, AN­THON^Y KOSYDAR, EDWARD KRESSER, ROBERT KROHA, ARTHUR KUSHI, KEN­NETH KWI.AT, RO-N LAWSON, JAMES LEE, CHARLES LENNON, TERRY LEONARD, CHARLES LEROSE, JOHN J. LINEHAN, DAVID McGANN, ROBERT McCLOSKEY, JEROME McKAY. JERRY McNAMAR*. R. PATRICK MALLORY. CHARLES -MANIX, S. JOHN MAY, TIM MONAH.\N, D.ANIEL P. MITCHELL, MICHAEL MORRISSEY, BILL MURPHY, PETER MURPHY, JAMES NACK, MIKE NASH, GEORGE E. O'CONNELL, E. DENNIS O'CO.V.NOR, RON OLSON, MICHAEL O'NEILL. DEN.NIS 0'SH.\UGH.\ESSY, TRACY OSBORNE. JI.M OSTER, NICHOL.'^S PALIH­NICH, THO.\L'\S J. PAULICK, WILLIAM PFLAUM, ROBERT P. PHELAN, JOHN PI­DICK, CHARLES QUINN, FRED RALPH, ROY REGA.\, CHARLES RIECK, MICK RYAN, STEPHEN SALLER. JOSEPH S.WOUR, ROBERT SCARPrrrO, RICHARD SCHMITZ, ROBERT SCHULTZE. JOSEPH SCHWARTZ, PATRICK SEERY. JOHN SKUPIEN, H.^RRY SLA.NE, WILLIA.M K. SLIFE, DA.VIEL SMALL, THOMAS SMITH. WILLIAM STEBER, STRATFORD STEFAN. TO.M SULLIVAN, LEE SUTTNER, F. R\YMOND TRANCE. JAMES TYNAN, JOHN ULLRICH. CARL D. VAN HECKE, JA.MES VCRDICK. GEORGE F. VORIS, M. JAMES WALLACE. D.WE WIL­LIAMS, GENE WrrCHGER. ROBERT YOUNG. 
1961 Law JOHN N. MORELAND 
Bookin & Moreland, 211'/! E. Main St., Oftumwa, Iowa 52501 
1962 TERRENCE F. McCARTHY 31957 Williamsburg, St. Clair Shores, Mich. 48082 
Ahoy mates! Lots of news to report, some of which, unfortunately, had to be deleted from last month because of volume. BILL DONOVA mar­ried Kathleen Moccia on May 18. She is a Dominican College graduate- Bill is a represen­tative for Insurance Co. of North America in San Francisco. Brother LEO GILSDORF FSC has been busy since receiving his MS in phj'sics in '62. Among other things he has served as assis­tant director of the Christian Brothers novitiate, assistant principal and dean of students at De La Salle High of New Orleans and is now with St. Micliacl's High of Santa Fe, N.M. Lt. JACK STEFFENS US.\F is stationed presently in Thai­land and is ready to return to the States in Sep­tcmber. Jack is engaged to Miss Durelle Dcaton of California. Jack has recently seen Lt. CHARLIE SWITZER USN who was on patrol in the Philip­pines. JIM DANIELS received his MD in June from the U. of Minnesota, and married Roberta 
Anderson of Hopkins, Alinn. The Daniels will live in Moi^ntovvTi, W.Va. where Jim will intern at the medical center. 
PIERRE A. "Pete" HIROU received an MBA from Gonzaga last May and is currently com­pleting one year of management training witli Sears, Roebuck & Co. ia the Los Angeles area. LINZIE E. KR.\M£R was admitted to the Cali­fornia Bar, and b now practicing law as a judge ad\*ocatc with the USAF at Forbes AFB, Topeka. Lt. DAVID C. RICHARDSON was graduated from the Air U's Squadron OfHcer School, Max­well AFB, Ah. and ^\-as reassigned to Craig AFB, Ala. for pilot training. DAVID L. CASTALDI has been named one of 18 Baker Scholars, tlie highest award given MB.-\ students prior to gradua­tion, at Har\-ard Graduate School where he is in his second year. Lt. HOWARD J. SCHNEE­BERGER JR. is now a pilot with the 50th Troop Carrier Squadron on duty on Kung Kuan AB, Formosa. Brother AUSTIN HALEY (MA '62) is the superior and principal of St. Patrick*s School in Monrovia, Liberia, West Africa, where he is also engaged in building a dining hall for his students. 
We Iicar that PETE HYLAND is trying to con TO.M FABISH '63 and JACK EGAN into Joining the barbershop quartet route. BILL KLEIN, who had been working for LOOK in Des Moines, is presently asst. ad. mgr. with Northwestern Bell in Minnesota. Tlic Kleins have two children now, Karen and Jon Leonard bom Jan. 20 and make their home in Blooming­ton. Bill occasionally runs into PETE KIRK who is with the First National Bank in St. Paul. DAVID A. CALNON who had been working in Long Beach. Calif, has returned to the East and now is associated ^vith multi-factoring sales div. of Garlock Inc. in Rochester, N.Y. David and wife. Kay, have two children, Brian 2'/­and Sheila 5 months. JERRY QUINN MD and wife, Diane, will be moving from Miami to Durham, N.C. Jcrr>' is finishing his internship and will begin a four-year residency in pathologj­at Duke. The Qninns were blessed with a girl, Patti Anne, bom last October. PETER MORRIS, wife, Patricia, and daughter, Katherinc, will continue to live in Chapel Hill, N.C. Pete will be receiving his MD from the U. of North Carolina Med School this June and mil remain for an internship in general surgery*. 
MICHAEL "Spike" McADAMS sent on a newsy letter which I'll relate to you. Spike is presently stationed in Wichita, Kan., with the USAF. While on TDV last summer in Southeast Asia, Spike ran into BOB KENNY, his wife and daughter in Okinau-a where Bob began a 30-month tour. LARRY GAGGERO is a Marine helicopter pilot stationed in Da Nang and has been nicknamed the "magnet."^ BARRY RYA.V USAF is finishing his tour of Korea soon. Spike wrote that his old roomie, HOWIE SCHNEEBERGER, is Hying C-I30's with the AF, Howie, who was married in November, has been sent to a classified base in Southeast Asia. MONTY WILLIAMSON is a jet jockey with the Marines. JIM O'HANLOX, wife, Angela, and their two daughters—Angela and Christine — are now living in N.Y. City. Jim is working for S. D. Lcidesdorf and Co., a CPA firm, and is working for his MBA at CCN.Y. Jim reports that his old Marine buddies, ED McCARRON and VINCE SWEENEY, arc still in the serx-icc, Ed was married last November and is now stationed in Key West, Fla. Vincc is ser\'ing his second tour of duty in Vietnam. JOHN McNAM.\RA sent on some news. John is a high­way-planning engineer presently working with Brighton Engineering of Little Rock. He and his 
irife, the {ormcr Caro] Jiood, have two bovs— 
Ko-in and Patrick. JOHN SHANAHAN, who has his MA from ND and has scr\'ed with the Army in Germany, was recently married to Miss Isabel Elliot. 
JOHN HARTY and wife, Kathy, recently were blessed with their first child. John is employed by Monsanto Chemical in Cleveland. DON COUCH is asst. cashier at a Little Rock bank. RON BORKOWSKI, BILL FORD and BERNIE LOLLAR sent out a news flash from D.^N KRALIK's bachelor pad in Bridgeman, Mich. Both Ron and Bill are with Sears Roebuck & Co. in Benton Harbor, Mich. Ron is the proud father of three children while Bill backs him up with one. Bemie is a histor>* scholar at the U. of Chicago. Dan, who is the principal of Bridgeman High, traveled out to California in April to sen'c in JOHN TIDGEWELL's redding. PETE SCHEID is m*th a law firm in Owosso, MJch. RAYMOND RAEDY sent on some neu-s about classmates in the Mar>i3nd area. Raymond is working in DC doing legal and legislative research while attending 
ALUMNUS JUIY 7966 AUGUST 

the American U. Law School. Ray and his wife 
have a year-old son, Kevin. JOHN BRINKER is 
working for the telephone co. He and his wife 
have one child. 
EARL LINEHAN dropped the Alumni Office 
a letter which follows — Members of our Class 
recently married include PAUL SCHELLHAM­
MER (to Barbara Bamctt) on Mar. 26 in Arling­
ton, Va.; JOHN TIDGEWELL (to Linda M c 
Cunc) on Apr. 16 in Tustin, Calif.; ^L•\RK MAR­
QUARDT (to Carol Jean Southmayd) on Apr. 
16 in Sumner, Md.; and DICK TRUJILLO (to 
Sylvia Hcrmandcz) on Apr. 30 in Phoenix, Ariz. 
Marsha and PAT HUGHES arc proud parents 
of a new son, Brian. Pat and Marsha will soon 
be in Boston where Pat will be stationed at 
Chelsea Hospital cfTcctivc July 1. Dariellc and 
EARL LIXEHAN arc the parents of a second 
son, Brendan Earl, born Mar. 10. 
MIKE HARRO X had an interesting experience 
recently in California- He was returning to 
California in a rented airplane with his aunt when 
lie ran out of gas late at night. In the best 
tradition of James Bond, he finally managed to 
land the airplane on a busy highway after barely 
missing three cars as well as some power lines 
crossing the highway. 
REMEMBER! OUR ANNUAL CLASS RE­
UNION WILL BE HELD AFTER THE ARMY 
GAME ON OCTOBER 8. Location of the Reunion 
will be announced in the next ALUM.vt/s and at 
the ball game. Let TERRY McCARTHY bear 
from you if you plan to make it and he'll print 
your names in the column to let others know. 
—EARL LIXEHAN, President 

One final note — begin now making pbns to 
attend our Fifth-Year Reunion. All info will 
appear in the Cbss column. However, if anyone 
in the South Bend area x\'Duld like to serve as 
local arrangements chairman drop me a note. 
— TERRENCE F. McCxVRTHY, Secretary 

1962 Law 
PAUL K. ROONEY Assistant U.S. Attorney Southern District of New York 
U.S. Courthouse, Fo!ey Square New York, N.Y. T0007 
1963 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
MIKE BRITT is a sales rcprecntativc for 
Caterpillar Tractors with new responsibility in the 
overseas division. He and his family have moved 
to GencTO, Swiz. NICHOLAS VUCICH has 
been named "salesman of the year** for Vick 
Chemical Co. DICK RUSTECK is pitching with 
the Mets. 
JOHN &\NFIELD has been awarded a two-
year US Steel Foundation scholarship for study 
in the U. of Florida's department of English 
u'lierc be plans to study for his doctorate. 
THOMAS JOLIE has been assigned overseas duty 
with the Catholic Relief Services and will spend 
three weeks in an intensive orientation course in 
Lima, Peru prior to being assigned to another 
Latin /\mcrican country. He will be engaged in 
distribution of food, clothing and medicines. He 
will also organize and implement community de­
velopment and rural education programs. 
PAUL VOSS lias been commissioned a second 
lieutenant in the AF and will be assigned to 
Sclfridge AFB, Mich, for training and dut)'. Lt. 
LEE MULVIHILL is undergoing tank crew quali­
fications at the Seventh Army training area in 
Grafenwohr, Germany. Another member of the 
armed forces is FRANK STAHL JR. who has 
been commissioned a second lieutenant in the AF 
at Lackland AFB, Tex. 
JIM NOVAK recently attended a txvo-weck company training session in NYC of Clias. Pfizer & Co. DONALD GRAY (.MA '63) has been au'arded his second Danforth Teacher Grant in tw*o yeais. He is an instructor of theology at Manhattan College and is currently wwrking to­ward his PhD in the joint program of graduate theology at Fordham and Union Theological Sem­inary. 
Lt. ROBERT ROBUCK has been awarded the Air Medal at Da Nang AB, Vietnam for his per­sonal bravery and airmanship in the fight against Communist aggression. Lt. THOMAS P.\TRICK RILEY has been awarded the Bronze Star for meritorious achievement in connection with opera-
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
tions against insurgent Communist forces while 
serving with the Second Battalion, Seventh Ma­
rines. Lt. JAMES MALLING has been awarded 
the Army Commendation Medal for meritorious 
service. 
On May 7, TOM SCHNEIDER, designer for 
American Greeting Cards in Cleveland, was mar­
ried to Miss Patricia Kohl, twin sister of PAUL 
KOHL of Pittsburgh. Also in the wedding party 
was CARL VANDERGRIFT. 
Sr. PHILOME.\A JOSEPH LUDWIG (MS '63) 
will ser^'e as a \*isiting professor in the curricultmi 
laboratory in the College of Education at the U. 
of Illinois for the summer session. 
Also in the mail was a card from BILL VASU. 
Bill is stationed at Darnall Army Hospital, Ft. 
Hood, Texas. Before entering the Army, Bill 
obtained his mastcr*s in business from NTTU and, 
ako, spent a summer working for Ford at the 
World's Fair. He informs us that JOHN Mac-
LEOD is working for Peat. Marwick and Mitchell 
in San Francisco; that TO.VY BASCHE is with 
the CIC in Washington; and that NICK 
HARKINS is with the Finance Corps at Fort 
Sheridan, 111. 
DICK TUSHLA is completing his third year 
at the Nebraska College of Medicine. He is 
engaged to Connie Bernard SMC '66 and plans 
to be married Aug. 6. KENT ACKERSOX and 
Barbara Moninger were married Dec. 26, 1964. 
Kent rccci\-ed his MS in physics, has a NASA 
trainceship and is now working on his PhD. BILL 
SPARKS can be found at 5623 Sanger Ave., Apt. 
11, Alexandria, Va. Wliat*s up Bill? FRANK 
VITRO has received an MS from Boston College 
in experimental psychoIog>'. He is now in his 
second year as instructor of psychology and biology 
at Chamberlayne Jr. College. Frank and wife, 
Elaine, have one child, Thomas Michael. JOE 
D'O.NOFRIO is finishing his third year at 
Columbia Dental School. Joe will be married this 

summer to Joanne Louden. BILL JORD.\N will 
be his best man. 
Received the following from JOHN McLAUGH-
LIX. "Would like to report the birth of our first child, Mary Xfichelle, to myself and wife, Geri. Have moved back to Pendleton after receiving the new job of auditor for Pendleton Sa\-ings and Loan. TOM MICHAELS has returned to Ander­son, Ind., from the Na\-y. Tom and wife, Pat, have a new daughter, Susan Marie." 
TOM BRUNNER has received an MS in aero and astro eng. from Ohio State and is currently working at McDonnell Aircraft in St. Louis. He and his wife, Nelda, are the proud parents of a son, Jonathan, born on Oct. 17, 1965. Received a note from LARRY GIST who has just gradu­ated from the U. of Texas Law School. He and his wife, Julie, visited ND last fall and visited with Jcanie and TOM REID, and Mary Ana and FRANK KAPPLE. 
— FR.\NK DiCELLO, Secretary 

1963 Law 
JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Legal Dept., Associates Investment Co., South Bend, Ind. 46615 
1964 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 778 Coleman Ave., Menlo Park, Cal. 94025 
This issue's mailbag is especially heavy, thanks to all who have taken time to write a note. ^^LITARY SERVICE Lt. KEVLN WALSH U a Special Services of­ficer stationed at Da Nang, Vietnam. Lt. GREG BRi\DFORD is a navigator-bombardier fl>-ing B­52's out of Mather AFB in California. Lt. WAYNE ST. CLAIR ^^•as an artillery observer in Vietnam and was scheduled to return home tlic beginning of June. Lt. TONTf STILATI and his wife, Helena, arc in Germany where Tony scr\'es with an artillerj- baltaJion. Lt. (j.g.) DICK MCCARTHY is on the USS Dominant out of Little Creek, Va. He was mar­ried last August to Kathy Donlan of Framingham, Mass. Lt. PETE HOLM.\N is registrar of the US Army Hospital, Brernerhaven, Gcrmanyt and is engaged to Ann Fecly, an Army nutse. Lt> BILL KEAN will be home this summer after a tour of duty :n Vietnam with the Army Signal Corps. Lt. BILL 0'HEARN*s tour was to kive also ended June '66, returning from 13 months in Korea. Lt. (j.g.) PETE LITRENTA is on the USS 
Porterfield in the Western Padfic He was mar­
ried last December to Linda Mast, a graduate of 
Cal Western U. Lt. (j.g.) RON GILLES Is on 
the USS Columbus somewhere in the Caribbean. 
Ron recently won an award for an essay in the 
1965 "I am an American" contest. Lt. JOHN 
SCULLY has been assigned to Chicago to serve 
with the Adjutant General Headquarters there. 
Lt. GEORGE QUITER is a sanitary engineer In 
the Army Medical Ser^-Ice Corps at Ft. Baker, 
Calif. 

Ens. DENNIS O'NEILL is on the USS Mount 
Baker off the Vietnam coast. Lt. BRIAN CONWAY 
is stationed at Cu Chi in So. Vietnam with the 
25th Infantry. Lt. JAY SOMMERKAMP is 15 
miles outside Saigon supplying ammunition to the 
1st Infantry. He writes that he has run into Lt. 
JIM BEITER (Quartermaster Corps), Lt. MIKE 
KIRCHEN (1st Infantry) and Lt. CARMEN 
^lARINO (Intelligence) who are all in the area. 
Lt. DAVE GARNER is a Marine artillery ob­
server in Vietnam. Lt. (j.g.) JOHN ALUU-OW 
is on the USS IVtndham County and supplies 
combat and support units all along the coastline. 
His wife, Sylvia, is living in Hayama, a resort 
Suburb of Tokyo. He writes that he has run Into 
Lt. NEWELL STICKLER and both of them ex­
tend open invitations to any ND men in the area 
for a good meal. NcwcH's address is Naha Wheel 
Area (Duty Phone 72219) and in John'scase keep 
an eye out for Lst U70 on the side of the USS 
IVindham County. Lt. (j.g.) JOHN CADLE and 
his wife, Bobbie, are stationed at Guam with the 
Navy. 

Ens. DICK SIMMS, his wife, Mary, and their 
daughters are in the Corpus Christi, Tex., area 
^vhile Dick works tou'ards his Navy Flight wings. 
He was to have received his wings in May. Ens. 
BILL PHALAN also was to have received his 
Na\*y Wings in July. He is married to the former 
Afarty Lopushinsky. So far officers have monop­
olized the space, so in the cause of EM's I want 
to pass on a note from FltANK KUZMITS in 
Arizona which states "After a year and a half in 
the Army reserves I finally made PFC." 
CAREERS DICK STRITTER is living in EvansviDe, Ind., where he Is working with IBM as a systems engi­neer. His new son, Tliomas William, is now seven montlis old. JOHN COOK Is with Procter and Gamble in Chicago on their cost training pro­gram. He was supposed to have traveled to Rhode Island in June to begin Navy OCS in supply. DAVE STAS A received his NLA in education and is teaching history and music at Sacred Heart High School in Detroit. He was married in Febru­ary to Mary Anne Kropek. RICK DEL.ANEY received his SlBA from Indiana U. and is working for Procter and Gamble in Gary, Ind. JOHN BORCHARD worked for Eastman Kodak for tno years following graduation and is now in business with his father in Southern California. He and his w*ife, Nancy, are the proud parents of two sons. GENE SEROTINI received an MS in Industrial Administration from Purdue and Is employed by Ingersoll-Rand In New York. He was married to Diane Colainatter in October '65. BOB EARLY also received his MSIA from Purdue and entered IngersoU-Rand*s employ in Painted Post, N.Y. He was married to Joan Freistroffcr from Purdue in January *66. Another MSLA grad from Purdue is BOB JOCHUM who is working for Indiana Bell in Indianapolis. He was married to Janet Clark (St. Mary-of-the-Woods *65) in February, 
'66. 

At this point I*m far over the column lunit and Iiaven*t even dented my mail. My next installment of the Adventures of the Class of '64 will bring the Class actlWties up to date. 
—W.ARREN C. STEPHENS, Secretary 

1964 Law 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, III. 60202 
This column will cover only one item. It is with sadness that I report the death of JOE KILLLAN on May 16. Joe had been suffering from leukemta since last August and he died In Buffalo, N.Y. after undergoing surgery. His funeral was held in Akron on May 20 and was attended by the following members of the Cbss: CH.ARLIE SACHER, TOM KERN, GENE KRAMER and CHUCK SWEENEY. Chuck served as a pall­bearer and in that capacity represented our Class. A group of us in Chicago sent a floral tribute in the name of the Class. 
Joe is sur^^ved by his wife, Carol, and two children, Kevin and Kelley. Tbey rcsde at 2672 
37 
Fairland Ave., Cu>'aIioga Falls, Ohio and I'm sure that Carol would appreciate hearing from each of j'ou, individually. I knou* that she and the children have the sj-mpalhy of each member of the Class and that you will constantly remember their intentions in j-our prayers. 
— TOM CON.VEELY, Secretary 
1965 
JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, Ohio 44514 
The ND-Purduc game. Sept- 24, will pronde the occasion for an informal Class Reunion. De­tails on a mcedng place will be included in this column in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
RICK RAY was married in June to Marshalce Frey of Deerfield, III. Rick along «-ith HARRY STEELE and BUZZ BREE.N has completed his MB. \ requirements at Northwestern. Rick is working viith the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. in Chicago. FR.\NK HINCHEY is working on his Ms in journalism at Ohio U. and hopes to com­plete the requirements by Feb., 1967. Frank is spending the summer in Rudand^ Vt. doing re­search on his thesis. 
TOM GOODWIN has completed his first year in dental school at tlic IT. of Buffalo. BILL PREDEBON is in grad scliool at loua State. Ens. MIKE DONOVAN is stationed at Cliase Field in Becs\^llc, Tex. Mike lias been spending most of his leaves in Mexico. Ens. DOUG BR.'\NSON is 3JOW stationed in San Firmcisco on the mines^veepcr USS Pluck. Doug expects to leave soon for Vietnam and wUl remain there until Easter of 1967. 
JIM EIFERT and BILL PFOUTS art; ^vorking on master's at Ohio State In metallursical cn^­neering. PAT ZILBITIS was manicd in August to Jutly Bednar of Parma, O. Pat received his MS degree in mechanical engineering from U. of Michigan and has accepted a position ^nth IBM. PHIL DUR i\as married to KaOty DonO' ^an (SMC '66) of Arlington, Mass. in Sacred Heart at ND on June 6. Phil has completed his graduate work at ND in foreign relations and will report for duty with the Naxy. PAUL RAY rccci\'cd his MB.A. from U. of Michigan and is now stationed vnth tlie Na\*y in DC at tlie special projects office. MORT KELLY is engaged to Ledtia LawTcncc of New York City. Mort is stationed outside Frankfurt, Germany ivith the 3rd Btn., 33rd Armor, 3rd .Armor Div. 
TOM KERNS is working for his iLA in phi­losophy at Marquette. His wife, Katliy, presented him with a boy in October, Tom \mtcs that RICH WITT was married last summer and is studjing for an MA in philosophy at the U. of Nebraska. BOB G.AENSSLEN, who is studpng for his PhD in biochemistry- at Cornell, %vas en­gaged to EK-ira Loc NEWT LESH was married last summer and is in tlic Army in Texas. JIM 
MAG.AGNA is studying law at Stanford. BILL SULLIVAN is studj-ing law at Lo\-ola. JOHN WOODS and JOHN UJDA arc both in medical school at Marquette. DONALD KINTER is a btisiness training candidate ivith General Electric in Utica. Don became the father of a son in Ftbruary. DON SCHUSTER is teaching seventh grade at St. Ra>-mond's Cathedral in Joliet. Don plans to use his sunimcis working for an XL\ in education at Northern Illinois U. 
LEE MCCARTHY \*as married to Roberta Strhruus SMC'66 in April. Lcc will take a leave of absence from his job as news director of WYTV in Yoimgstomi to scr\*c in the Air Force. PHIL HAIGHT received his AB engineering degree (BS in chem. engineering) in January and is %vorldng for Shell Oil in Los Angeles. Phil will attend law school in the faU. TERRY D.\ILY is at the U. 
of Pennsylvania Law School. JIM DWYER writes that JOHN GEREN has been partidpadng in the Bridsh traditions of rowing and squash while pursuing his studies at Mcrton College, Oxford. JOHN ANTOUN is in the Na\T, teaching school near San Frandsco. 
Lt. MARK TYMZA lias earned his pilot's wings at Laughlin AFB, Tex. and has been assigned to Bitburg AFB, Germany. Lt. PHILLIP ELUSCHE has entered AF pilot training at Reese AFB, Tex. JOSEPH F. WHITE lias been named an invest­ment asnstant in the securities department of Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co. Lt. FRANK MEL­LENO is sening as an informations officer as­signed to HQ, Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Smic* at Orlando AFB, Fla. Lt. JOHN PLUN­KETT has completed the Army Infantry School's Ranger coune at Ft. Bcnning. Ga. 
— JAMES P. ILARNISCH, Secretary 
3S 
1965 Law 
JOHN A. HAUTER 1050 Indiana Ave. Glenwood, III. 60425 
I speak for tlic Class when 1 extend our nn­ccre sympathy to BILL LAWLER on tlie loss of his wife, Paula, recently. May I request at this time that wc all remember the Lawler family in our prayers. 
I received a letter from ART HOOVER and he tells us the follotring: FRANK KILEY and Carol Winters were married Feb. 19 and kept it a secret till results of his Bar exam were out. Sound like Frank? JIM FLYNN is in practice with another young attorney. No further neH3 giving details, however. ART HOOVER and Sue went up to the \Vinter Carnival at Dartmouth and saw RICH CATEN.VACCI "sporting a flashy hairdo." 
JOHN MARTIN is certain tliat his son is destined to be a guard because he is aluays hitdng his head against the side of the crib. 
Special flash: Dudley was giren some baby chicks to play vvith at Easter by the Ellis*. You guessed it! He's afraid of them. 
Recently received a short note from DAVE COSTANTINO (address: Lt. D. AL Costantino, 084977 US-\fC, Box 41, 3-66) who graduated from USMC basic school. He Will rcpon soon to Naval Justice Scliool for a seven-week course in military la\s', then *'. . . on to that big PX across the sea, Vietnam.'' By tliat time he should be a captain. He sends a message to JOHN MARTIN that if he needs help he'll send for him. 
I v%as shocked to answer the phone Memorial Day weekend and be greeted by MIKE BISHKO who was in Chicago for a few da>-s. He tells us that he lias passed the N.J. Bar and is presently employed with Arthur Young & Co. "The Bish" heard from HUGH CU.NNIFFE rccenUy and claims Hugh and Pearl have returned to the US after a year's stay in Germany combining work and play. Again "congrats" arc extended to Hugh upon successfully passing the N.Y. Bar. He \rill soon be a part of the Public Defender program 
in N.Y. 
I spoke to WALT RIEBE.NACK in Sliaronvillc, Ohio a few weeks ago and learned that Walt is planning a move to Fort Wayne, Ind. where he is joining a firm in which he uill specialize in labor law. Our best wishes for a successful new career! 
Wedding bells arc In the near future for LEN McCUE. 
We have a new address for JIM LEONARD who recendy bought a new home. It is: 3614 S. Medlock, Phoenix 85014. 
The DENNIS STEROSKYs arc the proud parents of a baby girl, Denise Marie, bom Apr. 22. 

Is it already common knowledge that RON SOWERS is on the board of directors at the Law School? 
Has anyone heard from CR-VL ACKERMAN, ED DEN DOOVEN or DOUG SPECIA? 
— JOHN HAtJTER, Secretary 

1966 
RICHARD ANGELOTTI 1404 Greenfield Dr. Erie, Pa. 16512 
The time is at hand to congratulate each of you on successfully completing your four years at Notre Dame and, thus, moving into the ranks of ND AlumnL As I'm sure you'll all agree, the South Bend weatherman delightfully surprised us all by giWng us some unexpected but very much hoped-for weather. 
All the ceremonies went along well and the speeches were, for the most part, very enjoyable. Lady Jackson, the school's first female commence^ ment speaker, blended humor and some interesting points in a most enjoj-able talk. JOHN CLARKE, the chss orator, and KEN KHOURY, the Class valedictorian, were excellent in pointing out the challenges that confront us and our req>onsibility to them in the future. 
Special mention is in order for the Senior Award and Prize recipients: RON BURKE, TOM ARKWRIGHT, JOHN SCANLAN, KEITH MAN^VILLE, JOSEPH STARSHAK, DAVE GAR­RICK, STEPHEN BLAHA, EUGENE BEILER, DENNTS CORRIGAN, TERRY PLUMB. JIM TIEDGE, BERNARD BARTH, JAY ALVCDON­ALD, CHARLES WILLS, BILL WILKIE, ANDY DLNCOLO, ILIARK MEIERING^ BOB DREVS, 
CHUCK McAULIFFE, LOUIS SHARP, GERALD 
UPOVSKI, JOE SYNAN, JOHN WALLERIUS, 
DAVE BERINGER, FRANK CHING, RON 
KASPRISIN, AUURICE GIRARDI, GERALD 
ERBACH, WALLY DAVIS, XAVIER MARU-
YAiLV, MIKE RUSH. KEVIN DALY, ED DEAN 
and PEDRO ROSSELLO. 
Congratulations arc also in order for those mem­

bers of our class receiving fellowships: MAL­
COLM COULTER, KEVIN DALY, MIKE 
GLADIOUX, VINCE GUTSCHICK, DARRELL 
PETERSON, JOHN WALLERIUS, DAVE Mc-
CAFFREY. VINCE COLETTA, ALEXANDER 
DZIERBA and RONALD THIBAULT won Na­
tional Science Foundation Fellowships. BILL 
O'GRADY was the redpient of a Danforth Fel­
lowship, and DON D.-\VEY won a US Govern­
ment Scholarship for study abroad. Woodrow j 
Wilson Fellowships went to JOHN CLARKE. 
DAVE HACKER, MALACHI KENNEY, XAVIER 
MARUYAiU, TERRENCE MILLER, BILL 
0'GR.ADY, JOSEPH STARSHAK and ALBERT 
VITER. 
June wedding bells were ringing for a Sew 

seniors. LEO CLARK, PAT DWYER, JOHN 
HEAD and BILL O'DONNELL liave all been 
called to tlic wonderful world of marital bliss. 
Pat rh%7er took his big step at Sacred Heart on 
the ND campus on June 6; and Bill O'Donncll ^ 
on June 18 in New Rochellc, N.Y. Bill's stag 
party was held at Westchester Country Club and 
included a couple of rounds of golf on tliis club's 
beautiful layout. His reception was at the Larch­
mont Shore Club. Bill and his wife, Maura, will 
honej-moon in Bermuda. DAVE McSOW^EY, 
BILL WOLSKI and PHIL SHERIDAN were ' some of those classmates of Bill's who saw him abandon the single ranks. Bill will return to ND in September to obtain his master's degree in •* economics. 
By this time most of the Class arc rested from 

their very busy month of May and liave com­
menced with their summer jobs. MIKE McKIM 
and TOM GARTNER are working for 7-Up in 
Minneapolis. DAVE McSORLEY is working on 
construction in Pittsburgh. JOE SPAK is an 
engineering apprentice at General Electric. JOHN 
CAVAN is bu^ witli .-VT & T in N.J. Buchanan, 
Mich, is receiving the services of JOE SOM-•'• 
MERS who is working as a city advisor. JOHN 
BUCK and DREW KERSHEN decided to pass 
up summer cmplo>'mcnt. Both began their tlircc 
years of law school on June 7. They arc room­
mates at the U. of Texas Law School. 
Before I dose, I wxiuld once again earnestly ask 

each and every one of you to drop me or your 
area representative a letter in the near future to 
let us know what you're doing. The only way 
this article can be a success by keeping our Class 
well informed about each other's activities is if 
you all cooperate in supplying me with this in­
formation. A small note stating your activities, 
accomplishments or plans will be greaUy appre­
ciated. Your cooperation in this will ahvaj-s keep 
our Class united and well informed. 
Area reps are as follou-s: Northeast — JOHN E. CALIOR, 158 Plum St., Greenville, Pa.; JOHN CAVAN, 36 Keats Rd., Short Hills, N.J.; PAT­RICK LINSKEY, 106 Patterson Ave., Grecnvrich, Conn.; D.AVID McSORLEY, 115 Woodland Rd., Pittsburgh; JOSEPH SPAK, 40 Franklin Ave., Fainiew, Pa.; Southeast — J AMES P. DANAHY, 412 Wildwood Dr., Pearisbur^, Va.; ANDREW IPPOLITI, 3501 N. Kensington St., Ariington, Va.; JOSEPH SOMMERS, 111 Easdand Dr., Memphis, Tenn.; Midwest —JOHN F. WETLI, 2517 Eastmoreland Dr., Oregon, Ohio; J. GREGORY RUST, 420 E. Walnut, Grecnsburs, Ind.; THOMAS GORLA, 7306 Princeton, St. Louis, Mo.; JAMES TOOHEY. 1343 W. Rose-dale, Chicago, III.; MICHAEL McKIM, 911 East B St., N. Pktte, Neb.; JAMES C. MURRAY, ' 
2912 W. 83rd St., Chicago; Southwest — JOHN BUCK, 116 Ranger Dr., Hereford, Tex.; PAT­RICK CASHILL, 128 Grecnridge Rd., Reno, Nev.; JAMES P. COONEY, 701 Mockingbird Lane, Tyler, Tex.; West— MAX W. GRAHAM JR., 633 Kaimalino Rd., Kailua, Hav^aii; TIM­OTHY GUyiN, 2815 Los Arboles Ct. NE, Albu­querque, N.iL 
— RIOLMO) ANGELOTTI, Secretary 

Editor's Note —With deepest regret, the Univer­sity's Alumni Office learned in late June of the death of RICHARD F. WILLIAMS, Cin­dunati, Ohio who \*-Js killed June 25 in Ikfiami, 
Fla- Dick and a friend were changing a fbt tire when a motorist hit them, killing both instantly. The Alumni Office together with the Class extends deepest sympathies and prayers to Dick's family and friends. 
AWMNVS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
, ARS and rumors of wars laid 
a mantle of uncertainty on 

the 55 Eispiring lawyers who received their IXB degrees from the University, June 5. Fifteen of the graduates were certain of prompt military assignment and another 11 had uncertain futures because of draft eligibility or ROTC commit­ments. 
Of the 15 who are certain of military assignment, six plan legal service — three in the Army, two in the Marine Corps and one in the Navy — and severEil others have applied for legal assignments. 
Fourteen of the graduates who do not expect military service (or who 
7r\('
i.-lLJ-. iJ i i
iSf 
m
LJ Li t.' •' 

have already served) are associated with law firms; these arrangements cover all forms of practice, from Wall Street to solo practitioners, from New York to California. Three other fraduates are employed by corporate legal departments and two are in government legal service. One of these last, Robert A. Murphy of Massachusetts, has been assigned to the Civil Rights Division of the De­partment of Justice as part of the Attorney General's program for hon­or law graduates. 
Sue graduates have been appointed to federal judicial clerkships, five in the United States Courts of Appeal. James E. Hakes of Illinois will clerk for Circuit Judge Marion C. Matthes, St. Louis; Joseph P. Delia Maria Jr. of HUnois wiU clerk for Circuit Judge Roger Kiley, Chicago; Ross 
W. Peterson Jr. of California will clerk for Circuit Judfe Stanley Barnes, Los Angeles; Francis M. Gregory Jr. of Missouri wiU derk for Circuit Judge Carl McGowan, Wash­ington, DC; and John J. Haugh of Missouri will clerk for United States District Judge John J. Kilkenny, Portland. 
Prizes. Mr. Gregory, who graduated first in his class, won the Hoynes and O'Meara awards; Robert S. Krause of Nebraska, who will prac­tice in Detroit, won the. Farabaugh Prize. The Law Week Award, given the graduate who improved his per-. formance most in the third year at the Law School, was given to Paul 
J. Polking of Iowa, who will be an attorney in the oflBce of the Comp­troller of the Currency. The Law-! yer's Title Award, for excellence in 
ALUMNUS JULY mi AUGUST 
the law of real estate, was given to Mr. Peterson. 
The four A. Harold Weber prizes went to the three winners in the annual Moot Court competition — Mr. Murphy, Joseph S. Maxwell of Pennsylvania and Thomas J. Mc-Nally of Kentucky — and to three winners in the research paper com­petition— Peter Ippolito of New Jersey, Martin Idzik of New York and Mr. Peterson. Mr. Ippolito and Mr. Idzik collaborated on a study of decisions involving the introduction of evidence obtained by wire-tap­ping. Mr. Peterson's paper was on the apportionment of receipts on corporate securities held in trust. Scholarship Program. Dean Joseph O'Meara reviewed the progress of the Law School's scholarship pro­gram, which has grown from noth­ing to an annual budget of $150,000 in the past 14 years, at the spring meeting of the ofiicers and directors of the Notre Dame Law Association. 
Law scholarships to Notre Dame, he said, are not a recruiting device. They are aweirded only to students who have applied to the Law School for admission and have been ac­cepted, students who want to study law at Notre Dame. They are awarded on the basis of need and ability. 
Scholarship applicants Eire dis­couraged from shopping from law school to law school, a practice, Dean O'Meara said, which is a dis­service to the student and to the profession. Applicants who are of­fered Notre Dame law scholarships are required to accept or reject them within three weeks, a deadline which is not extended. The amount of a scholarship offer, which is set on the basis of the student's need for assis­tance, is not subject to bargaining, he said. 
The expemsion of the scholarship program has brought scores of able students to the Law School who could not otherwise have p£ud for a 
by THOMAS L. SHAFFER 
Notre Dame legal education. A rov­ing photographer from the ALUM­NUS visited four recent examples at the Law School in May: 
—
 FRANOS M. GREGORY JR., of Missouri, top man in the gradu­ating class, winner of the Hoynes and O'Meara awards and immediate past editor-in-chief of The Notre Dame Laioyer. Mr. Gregory, who attended the Law School on a Wil­liam J. Brennan Scholarship, is a graduate of Regis High School, New York City, and of St. Louis Uni­versity. 

—
 ROSS W. PETERSON JR. of California, winner of the Weber and Lawyer's Title awards, is a Notre Dame graduate who W£is able to re­place scholarship aid with a teach­ing assistantship in the College of Business Administration while at­tending the Law School. 

—
 PAUL J. MEYER of Illinois, a member of the third-year class smd editor-in-chief of The Notre Dame Lawyer. Mr. Meyer, who is a sum­mer associate in the firm of Coving­ton and Burling, Washington, DC, plans to serve as law derk for Jus­tice Walter Schaefer of the Supreme Court of minois. He is a graduate of St. Mary's College, Winona Lake, Minn. 

—
 JOSEPH P. MARTORI of New York, a member of the third-year dass and executive editor of The Notre Dame iMwyer. Mr. Martori holds bachelor's and metster's de-


SCHOIARSHIP RECIPIENTS Martori, Meyer, Peterson and Gregory (not pictured). 
U W SCHOOL (conf.) grees from New York University. He is a summer associate in the Wall Street firm of Shearman and Ster­ling. Student Officers. Each of the five student organizations at the Law School elected new ofBcers in meet­ings before the end of the academic year. Mr. Meyer is editor-in-chief of The Notre Dame Lawyer. Kenneth 
A. LazEirus of New Jersey is presi­dent of the Student Bar Assn. J. Sean Keenan of Ohio is director of the Moot Court. Jerry L. Berthold of West Virginia is treasurer (presi­dent) of Gray's Inn; and Thomas G. Farrdl Jr. of New York is director of the Legal Aid and Defender Assn. Spring Symposium. The 1967 Spring Symposium wiU be on February 18 and will be devoted to "The Crisis in Crime Control," a topic suggested 
AlABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­ham, Ala. 
ALASKA 
John S. HcUenihal, >33, Box 941, Anchoiase, Alaska. 
ARIZONA 
Photnbc—Anhur L. Erra, '30, 5038 
N. 35:h St.. Phoenix. Ariz. 
Tucson—I. *'Buddy" Goldman, '36, 3932 E. Poc, Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANS.AS 
FoTt Smith—^Jamcs A. Gilkcr, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smitli, Ark. 
Little Rock—James E. Madican. '43. 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock. Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 
BoJterjA'W—Ridiard L. Bamett, '56, 1415 18th St., Apt. 316, BakeisEcld. Calif. 
Cenlro/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­tary), 2430 Tuttrc St., Fresno, Calif. 
Lot Angeles — Thonai W. Powcre, 
'56, 3205 Nebraska PI., Costa Mesa, Calif. NoTthem—Edu-anl E. Madisan '54, 5528 Glenbrook Dr.. Oakland. CaliL 
Orange County—Thomas J. Getzing­cr, '53, 2212 E. Wilshirc Ave., Fullerton, Calif. 
Sacramento—Frank Gercmia Jr. '60, 8424 Lake Forest Dr. Sacramento, Calif. 
San Dieao — John B. Morgan. 40, 7721 Marie St., La Mesa. Calif. 
San Fernando Valley—Robert Hunter, 
'52, 8757 Jiunilla Ave., Nortliridgc, Calif. 
San Gabriel Valley — William T. 
Huston. '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
Wesl-Cenlral—E. Stuart Hilbert. '63, 1901 Halford, No. 105, Santa Oara, CaliL 
COLORADO 
Colorado Springs — Lt. Col. Malham 
M. Wakin, '52, Quarters No. 64I0E, Air^ Forec Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
'Denver — Edu'ard M. Mahoney, '52, 950 Broadiray, Denver, Colo. B0201 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecticut Valley—Robert L. Mc-
Goldrick, "56, 15 Drury Lane, W. Hartford. Conn. Fairfietd County—Gordon J. DiRcnzo 
•56, I97I Branson Rd., Fairfield, Conn. Naugatuet:—^Thomas K. Hubbard, '56, P.O. Box 525. Litchfield. Conn. 
New Haven—Dr. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamdcn 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 
Robert E. Daley '58. 2113 W. 17th St., Wilmington, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Walter J. Brennan, >f.D.. '41, 700 Duke St., Alexandria, Va. 
by Prof. G. Robert Blakey, who is a summer advisor to the President's Commission on Crime. 
"More than two and one-quarter million serious crimes were reported during 1963," Prof. Blakey said. "The reported crime rate has doubled since 1940. . . . Since 1958 it has increased overall five times as fast as our population, and the pro­portion of offenses attributable to the young has increased almost twice as fast as their population growth." News Notes. Jack Weir, president of the Canadian Bar Assn., addressed the members of Gray's Inn in May. 
Edward W. Kuhn, president of the American Bar Assn., addressed the annual Law Honors Banquet which is a joint venture of the Law School and the St. Joseph County Bar Assn. It was the ninth consecutive year in which the incumbent ABA president 

FLORIDA 
Central Fla. — William H. Ricke, '35, 2045 Falmouth Rd., Maitland, Fla. 32751 
Ft. Lauderdale—Robert P. Blaikic, '56, 4411 N.E. 15th Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33308 
Greater Miami—Gcor^e F. Hero, '52, 
40 N.E. 75th St.. Mbmi, Fla. 
North Fla. — Robert W. Schellen­berc, '48. 6842 San Sebastian Ave , Jack.'onvillc. Fla. 
Palm Beach CounO^John W. Dell '62, 153 S. Worth Ct., W. Palm Beach. Fla. 33405 
Pensaeola — Thomas Kane, '57, P.O. Box 8, Pensacoh, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa — Xfark E. 
Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Joseph S. Signiago. '48, 4720 Cherry\vood Lane, Atlanta, Ga. 
HAWAII 
//au-aii — Albert hum. '5 , 2264 Kancalii St., Honolulu, Ha\raii 96813 
IDAHO 

Frands IL Hicks, '49, 1180 Phelps Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho. Idaho Falls — James M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
Aurora — John G. Br>-an. '54, 111 Downer Place, Aurora, III. 
Central Illinois—.Wbert O. Eck, Jr., 
'58, Old Jacksonrillc Rd., Spring­field, III. Chicago — William D. Reynolds, '54, 9539 Monticello, Eranston, III. Decatur—^Joseph T. Donoi-an. '56, 
R. No. 1, Illiopolis. III. 62539 Eastern ///. — Richard J. Miles, '56, 3810 East Rd., Dam-illc, III. Fox Ko/fo'— Geoige R. Schmidt, '29, 
620 Summit St.. Elgin. III. /o/ir/—Richard E. McHugh, '43, 
R.R. 2, Manlmttan. III. 
McHenry County — William M. Car­roll. Jr.. '43, 329 Lake St., Wood­stock, III. 
Peoria — George J. Best, M.D.. '38, 312 Miller Ave., Peoria Hts., III. 
Rockford — Robert E. Douner '32, 4322 BrcndemiBod Rd., Rockford, III. 
Rock River Valley — Paul L. Berrct­
tini. '56, 609 Crawford Ave., Dixon, 
III. 

Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
CalTarelli. '55, 20851 Sparta Lane, 
OIsTUpia Fields. 111. 60461 
INDIANA 
Calumet District — Robert J. Welsh, Jr., '56, 7000 Chicago Ave, Gary, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—James F. Halliqan, '32, 303 Wysor BIdg., Muncic, Ind. 
HMart—James D. Ash, '33, 1151 Strong Ave., Elkhart, Ind. 
Fort Wayne — John A. 

addressed the banquet. 
Raymond J. Broderick '35 of Philadelphia, immediate past presi­dent of the Notre Dame Law Assn., is Republican candidate for lieu­tenant governor of Pennsylvania. 
Lawrence J. Dolan '55, '56L re­ceived a certificate of commendation for "excellence in performance of his professional obligation" from the Common Pleas Court of Geauga County, Ohio. The award was based upon Mr. Dolan's representation of an indigent criminal defendant. An editorial in the Chardon daily news­paper commented: "Geauga County and the legal profession should be proud of Mr. Dolan." 
Gerald Mark Gallivan '61L was married to Miss Moira Anne Ma-honey in June in Buffalo where Sir. Gallivan is an assistant United States Attorney. 
 Haley, Jr., 
'51, 6735 Hiltonia Dr., Fort Waj-ne, Ind. 46809 Indianapolis — Robert L. Kessing, Jr., '49. D646 N . Delaware St., Indian­apolis, Ind. 46220 Michigan City—Leon A. Daisis, '59, Merchants National Bank, 515 Franklin St.. Michigan City. Ind. St. Joseph I'oHey — Edward T. Mc­Carthy, '53. AfcCarthy Insurance .Agency. Marycrcst BIdg., South Bend. Ind. Terre Haute — Michael H. Keams, '60. 1642 S. 5th St., Terre Haute, Ind. TriSlale — .M H. Harding, Jr., '59, 3018 East Mulberry, Eransvillc, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlington — Joseph Ridge, '53, 1721 
West Acres, Burlington. Iou:a. 
Des .Moines—.\nthony M. Critelli '52, 
619 Savings & Loan BIdg., Des 
Moines. Iowa 50309. 

Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, '37, OurLady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Fcstina, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Quad Cities — John M. Nolan. *54, 11 Sunset Circle, Bettendorf, Iowa 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—^T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Jo/ma—Albert J. McLean. '31, 1410 Highland Ave., Salina, Kan. K'lVAtIo — William T. Davitt, '56, 204 Bitting BIdg., Wichita, Kan. 67202 
KENTUCKY 

Robert G. Huetz, Jr., '58. 12310 DaWdson Dr., Woodland Hills, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Edyard F. Sporl, Jr., '34. United Fruit Co., 321 St. Charles Ave., New Orleans, La. 70II2 
Northern Louisiana—^Dr. Edward R. 
Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shreveport, La. 
MAINE 
Anthony E. Silra. '56. 224 Walnut St., South Portbnd. Maine. 
MARYLAND 
Baltimore — Anthony M. Mileto, '51, 5515 Daywolt Ave., Baltimore 6. Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County — Alfred J. Bzdub, '49, 87 Kittredgc Rd., Piltslield, Mass. 
Boston — Robert L. Marr, '58, 34 Melrose St., Boston. Mass. 02116 
Pioneer Valley — William A. Hurley, '28. 33 Elm St., Springfield, Mass. 01103 
MICHIGAN 
Battle CrceJt—Raymond R. Allen. 40, 1009 Security National Bank BIdg., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles. .Mich. 
Blue Water District — William L. 
Wilson, '42. 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huran, Mich. 
Dearborn — Charles B. Kitz, '33, 704 Sandra, Dearborn Heights, Mich. 48127 
Detroit —C. M. Vcrbicst, '20, 1101 Washington Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 4C226 
Flint —Mired Mansour, '51, G-4295 Corunna Rd., Flint, Mich. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn. '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg. Ironwood. Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—H. Edward Prein. '55. 4991 Bluff Dr., N.E., Grand Rapids, Midi. 
Hiawathaland — Donald T. Troltier, '44, 504 Ludington St., Escanaba, Mich. 
Jackson — Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Frank G. Keisjes, '30, 1202 South Westnedgc Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Lansing — John F. Powers, '55. 1500 
W. Washtenaw Ave., Lansing. Mich. •Uonroe-^Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Rivervicw, Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 22H Rcneer St., iluskegon, Mich. 
Northland—^Henry J. Laucrman, '23, 1975 Rivetside Ave., Marinette, WIS. 
Saginaw Valley — La%vrcnce A. Smith, '31. 1305 A\'alon, Saginaw, Klich. 48603 
Top o/ Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney, '17. 416 East State St., Che­boygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 
Twin Ci/iM—Thomas H. Stahl, '54, 2801 Wayzata Blvd., Minneapolis, Minn. 55405 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Miller, '30. 755 GiUespIe PL, Jackson, Miss. 
ALUMNUS JULY \96i AUGUST 

MISSOURI OREGON 
KanS(U Ci/)^-Charl« L. CNcfll, '57, Dr. Edward -M. Scott, '46. 3632 N.E. 
6820 Dclmar, Shawnee Mission, Davis, Portland, Ore. 97232 
JAMES D. COONEY 
Kansas. Si. Louis — Joseph B. McGIynn, '55, Asst. Alumni Secretary 
PENNSYLVANIA 
7319 Cliambcrlain, University City, .Mo. 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41, U.S. Bank Bldg. 
MONTANA Johnstown, Pa. 

Suddenly, there's a
Robert T. O'Leary, '54, 2920 Floral Erie — Ridurd T. McCormick, '55, Blvd., Butte, Mont. 4425 Cherry St., Erie, Pa. deadline. And Jim. 
tfcrruturg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 
NEBRASKA Park Ave., ^cw Cumberland, Pa. Cooney is in tlie field. 
Omaha and Council Bluffs — Robert A. Rohling, '50. 55U1 Harney, Omaha, Net. 68132 
NEVADA 

Rex A. Bell, '57, 304 Fremont St., Las Vegas, Ncv. 
NEW JERSEY 

Central — John R. Mullen, '53, 
R.D. 3, Someriille, N.J. 
Xcw Jtrsey Shore — Peter M. Bel­mont, '44, 160 Rivcredge Rd., New Shrewsbury, N.J. 
New Jersey—^James A. Sebold, Jr., '50, 507 Bloomficld Ave., Montdair, 
Sou'lh Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 

mUiam B. Benedick, '54, 4601 Haines Ave., Albuqucrtiue, N.M. 
NEW YORK 

Albany — Franli E. O'Brien. '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. 
Buffalo — Edward C. Cosgrovej Do, 53 Reed Ave., Lackawanna. N.Y. Central — Kevin J. R>-an. 01, 400 
Northfield Way, Camillus, N.Y. 13031 
Golden Circle—Jzjncs F. McVay, '42. 49 Rirkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley — Thomas E. Digan, '52, 40 Fuller Lane, Hyde Park, N.Y. „ ^ . , 
Mohawk Valley—iUc^ad J. McCuirl, '49, 171 Roosevelt Dr., Uuca, N.Y. New York Cily—Gordon L. Forester, '47, 24 Ward Ave., Weslbury, N.Y. Rocftwlcr —William D. O'Toole, '39, 101 Mayllowcr Dr., Rochester, N.Y. Schenectady—Robert J. Cichocki, '56, 
272 Closson Rd., Scotia, N.Y. Syracuse—Sec "Central New York." Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, 
'34. 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira, 
Triple ' Cities — Frank M. Linclian, '45, 2 Elilabeth St., MR 97, Bing­hamton, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald J. Kelscy, '48, 1115 West­ridgc Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Dancr, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 
OHIO 

^Iron—James D. Dettling. '61,. 230 Dorchester Rd., Akron 13, OIuo. Canton — Robert A. Richard, '56, 
1103 Manor Ave. S.W., Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati—Charles J. Lima, Jr.. '58, 2541 Ridgediir. Cincinnati 12, Ohio. Cleveland — Fred S. Nacgle. '48, 1075 SyK-an Ave., Lakewood, Ohio 44107 
Columbus—Midiael J. Hoffman, '55, 3389 Calumet, Columbus, Ohio 43214 
Dayton—Thomas W. Eiscnhaiier, 'D8, 4724 Ackcnnan Blvd., Dayton, Ohio 45429. 
Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan. '41, 353 South D St.. Hamilton. Ohio. ^/oiuM''—Herbert J. Fryc. '40, 740 
N. Henry St.. Crestline, Ohio Northwestern—Leo J. Hawk, '55, 625 Victory, Lima, Ohio. OAio Valley—Robert R. Sincavldi, '50, 134 Grant Ave., Wheeling. W. Va. Sandusky — Richard C. Holder. '47, 2603 Easni-ood Dr.. Sandusky, Ohio. Tim — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., TifBn, Ohio. Toledo — J. Blaine Wiley, '57. 550 East Fifth St.. Perrysburg. Ohio 
Youngstozcn — George .-V. Webeh, Jr., '48, 2540 Sk>-\%ae Dr., Youngstown, Ohio 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma Cily — Daniel J. Kelcher, '58. 4201 N.W. 61, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Tuiso—Bernard J. Sulliran. '39. 717 Kennedy Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. 74103 
ALUMINUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
Lehieh Valley — David E. Nobn, '55, 835 Edward Ave., Allentown, Pa. 18101 
Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. 
Philadelphia —VliWam A. Whiteside, Jr., '51, 7808 Cobdcn Rd., Lave­rock, Philadelphia 18. Pa. 
Piltsbureh — J. Peter Fridav. '.W. 821 Ella Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15216 Scranlon—Earl E. Holmes, Jr., '54, 
105 Belmont Ave., Clarks Green. Pa. 
Wilhes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Mincis Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Williamsport — Joseph F, Orso, Jr., '55, 822 Fmnklin St., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND 
AND SOUTHEASTERN 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Francis J. Conforti, '43, Education Funds, Inc., 10 Dorrance St., Providence, R.L 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Westwood, Charleston, S.C. 
TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga — Edward F. Davis, *43, 506 Barrington, Signal Mountain, Tcnn. 
Memphis — Roy E. GiUia. '56, Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co., 2500 Stcrick Bldg.. Memphis, Tcnn. 
Nashville — William J. Faimon. '54, 6705 Rodney Ct., Kashvillc, Tcnn. 37205 
TEXAS 
/)fl//<w —John C. Rogers, '55, P.O. Box 1232. Dallas. Tex. 75201 El Pojo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Olivia Circle, EI Paso. Texas, //oiuron—Robert F. Dillon, '48. 9418 }Vinsonie Lane, Houston 42. Texas. 
Midland-Odessa — John L. Bucklo', '38, 2212 Han-ard Dr.. Midland, Texas 
San Antonio — S. CliUton Maverick, '61, 110 Auditorium Circle, San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH 
Don J. Roney. '58. 320 East Fourth, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 
Charles A. LaFratta. '47, 1301 Alsatia Dr., Richmond, Va. Tii/exiKer—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 153 Cedar Ln., Ljunharcn, Va. 
WASHINGTON 
Spokane—Dr. D. Cunan Higgins, '49, 
S. 1103 Wall St., Spokane, Wash. 99203 
Western — Thomas P. May, '55. 3632 Tenth Ave. North, Renton, Wash. 
^VEST VIRGINIA 
CiTil ^L Reich. '39, 903 S. Drew St., St. Albans. W.Va. Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Bo.-! 2063, Clarksbuts, W.Va. 
WISCONSIN 
Fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, '56, 400 S. Douglas, Appleton, Wise. 54912 
Green Bay—Dr. Danid W. Shea, '48, 718 E. Cass St.. Green Bay, Wise. La Crosse—^Thomas E. Jaebj '56. 336 
E. JclTcrson St., Caledonia, Minn. J/«rriH—Augustus H. Stance, *27, 102 
S. Prospect St., Merrill. Wise. 
Milwaukee—John A. Schloegel, '5iy5976 N. Bav Ridge Ave., Mil­waukee, Wb, 53217 Northwest Witconsin — Ben \i. Sin­anni, Jr.. '60, 2719 Keith St., Eau Claire. Wise. 54701 
South Central — Tliomas M. Hinkes, '51, 5414 Dorsett Dr., Madison, Wis. 53711 
So bear ivith your old 
Alumni Secretary for tile Club commentary. 
In the May-June issue of the ALUMNUS, the article on GRAB (Graduate Resume Accumulation and Distribution) set forth the dramatic new na­tional placement program produced through the co-operative efforts of the College Placement Coun­
cil. The program offers nation-wide computerized placement service to Edumni and to employers seek­ing their services. The article featured the great step forward that this program has permitted in the University Placement Office through Rev. Louis J. Thornton CSC, its director. 
I would like to stress the opportunity that the new program brings to the local Alumni Club. Placement of Alumni. Alumni interest and support, whether for the Club or the University, is facing more and more conflicts of time and resources. As a result, unless the Clubs and the University can intensify the interest of alumni, and sustain their active involvement, the conflict can be a losing one. As economic changes tend to produce more im­employment among mature and able alumni, assistance in placing A4 | |/^ « them in appropriate new jobs as-V^VlV^ " sumes a new and greater significance as a service which 
priorities 

Club and University can offer. Advantages mutual and obvious. 
My point is that the University is now, through GRAD, set up to be of major service to alumni everywhere. But the real implementation of this service can only be universal and immediate if the program has the interest, the imderstanding, and the enthusiasm of the local Alumni Clubs. 
Every Club president and board of directors should give this program prompt priority. Freshman Sendoff. Another successful program which will involve many Clubs within the next few weeks is the Freshman Sendoff Party. In one form or another, usually simple and inexpensive, the Club invites the new Freshmen from the area, their parents, and the current imdergraduates, to meet each other before the school year starts. If your Club does not do this, and would like to, write Jim Cooney right away for the details. 
JEA 

Pakbtan — Rev. Frank C. Burton, Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest 
^VYOMING 

CSC '33, Xotrc Dame College, Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. Dacca—2—, East Pakistan Panama — Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, FOREIGN CLUBS P.O. Box 830-F, Panama, Pimama. Canada — E^ul H. LaFramhoise, '34, 
Peru—Enrique LuUi, *45, Cuzco 440, 

St. Hibirc Rouville Co., 212 Blvd. Lima, Peru. 
Richelieu, Quebec. Canada. 
Puerto Rico—Julio Vizcarrondo, Jr., 

Ckile — Rev. Francis A. Provcnzano, '56, P.O. Box 9004, Santuree. 
C.S.C.. '42, St. Georee's College, Avcn, Pedro de Valdivia 1423, San-Puerto Rico. tiai;o, Chile. 
Rome — Vincent G. McAIoon, *34, Manila — Laurence J. Gotuaco, '54, (Secretary), Palazzo Brancacdo, 

P.O. Box 1152. Manila. Philippines. Mexico City—^Telmo Dc Landcro, *37, Largo Brancacdo, 82, Rome, Italy. 
Eugcnio Sue No. 220, Mexico City, Tokyo—Rev. Peter T. Moriwaki, S.J,, Alcxico. 
'65. Sophia Univerdty 7, Kiocho, Chiyodak, Tokyo, Japan. 
' ATLANTA = 
The Club sponsored a "meet and grccf* the 

Braves night on April 12 and 115 members of 
tlic Club attended the buffet dinner and game. 
The Braves' • management A*"as kind enough to 
acknowledge our presence in the stadium by 
flaslilng a message of welcome to the XD Club 
on the million-dollar scoreboard and by pla>ing 
the Notre Dame X'ictorj- March. The event ^^-as 
such a success tliat future outings to the games 
are tn tlic planning stage. 
Two family-type picnics arc planned for ihc 

summer months. During August, tentative plans 
have been made to liax-e the Club attend one 
of tlie .Atlanta Falcons* exhibition games. ^Vc hope 
to Iiave \"arious alumni ke>-note these affairs— 
we are fortunately well stocked with illustrative 
alumnu Three graduates have currently signed 
vnth the Atlanta Falcons: NICK RASSAS. BILL 
WOLSKI and PHIL SHERIDAN. HARRY 
MEHRE, former member of the Fighting Irish, 
and well-known sports%%-riter and coacli is also 
with the Falcons; as is GEORGE DIXON, former 
backficld coach of the Irish. The president of 
the Braves, JOHN McHALE, is a graduate of 
ND, as arc oilier members of the Braves* staff. 
—JAMES EICHELBERGER, Secretary 
BOSTON 
TTie second annual Golf Outing yvns held June 

21 at the WoUaston Golf Club. Tlic program 
included a luncheon, golf, sodal hour and 
dinner, —ROBERT iL\RR, President 
BUFFALO 

Co-chainncn for the Notre Dame Night at the 
Races, June 22, at Buffalo Raceway were the 
Club's nc>.- officcis. Pres. EDWARD COSGROVE, 
VP JOSEPH MARGIN, Trcas. JOHN LaDUCA, 
Sec. JAMES SE\'MOUR, and Financial Sec 
ROBERT BENNETT assured us of a fine tune. 
Regrettably, the ND Club of BulTalo lias lost its 

oldest member, D.-\N1EL ^f. DONOVAN, '08, 
of 223 Bryant St., North Tonairanda, N.Y. who 
died May 29. The Club has requested that 
Masses be said at the Univcrsit>* for tJie repose 
of his soul. 
—EDW.ARD C. COSGROVE, Piesidcnt 
. CALUMET DISTRICT INDIANA 

The Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region held tlielr annual Sports Stag Night at the St. Tliomas More hall in Munster. Tlie May 10th event featured guests TOM PAGNA, TOM CAREY, PHIL SHERIDAN, JIM LYNCH and MIKE McGlLL, all members of the Fighting Irish. Master of ceremonies for the night was Loren Tate, sports editor of the Hammond 
Times. 
^^ ^ CENTRAL FLORIDA ^^ ^ 
The Notre Dame Club of Central Florida, at a meelinf held on May 23, elected the following officers to serve for the coming year: Pres. BILL RICKE, VP JACK BOWEN, Sec BOB SMYTH, and Treas. FRANK LEY. 
—BOB SMYTH, Secretary 

. CENTRAL JERSEY ^^^ ^ 
JACK MULLEN '53, president of the Central Jersey Club", recently announced the first rcdpient of the Club scholarship. .Tlie successful candidate chosen by the committee Is Ralph Pfelffer of South River, N.J. who finished first In his graduating class of 207 members at St. Pcicr*s High School, New Brunswick, N.J. ' The .entire Club membership wishes Ralph a successful career at Notre Dame. Congratulations! 
The Club wound up its season vaih a highly successful golf outing on. June 9 at tlie Pbln­ficJd Country Club, Plainficid, N.J. This Is one of the finest courses in tlie East and it managed to survive the assault of approximately 33 enthu­siastic golfers. TERRY BRADY was low gross with 83. The day concluded witli dinner at the club and Si^ixi highlights ol the 1965 football season were shown. DAVE COLLINS '56 did a commendable job as c:hairman of the affair. Dave left' immediately thereafter for his tenth-year reunion and had time on the plane to digest the comments of his caddy regarding his putting! 
—HOWARD J. GILLESPIE,Vice-president 
CENTRAL NEW YORK 

The Notre Dame Club of Central New York recently held its annual election of ofiicers. KEVIN RYAN uas selected to direct the Club as president for the n«t year. TOM MONSOUR was elected vice-president; TOM ROGERS, trcas.; and ART KANERVIKO, sec 
On May 25, FRANK KELLY and JOHN CROWE of the Notre Dame Foundation \isited Syracuse for an Informal meeting with representa­tives of the Club. The interest shown in tlic topics of the discusHon was enlivening and beneficial to all concerned. 
Plans arc under ^ray for a midsummer social c\'ent. —ART KANERVIKO, Sccretaiy 
CHICAGO 

tJ?ID Night was the occasion for welcoming tlie Club's new ofllccis. Tliey arc: \VILLIAM REYNOLDS, pres.; ANTHONY GIROL.A^^, 1st VP; JOSEPH ARCHIBALD JR., 2nd VP; PATRICK MONTROY, sec; JOSEPH RIG.ALI JR., treas.; RICHARD NASH, hon. pres. Tlic new leaders have already planned a full sdiedulc of events which began ^ritli the testimonial dinner given for the outgoing members of the board of directors, June 15. 
The Ladies' Auxiliary of the ND Club of Chicago is sponsoring a telecast of the Oklahoma-ND game on Oct. 22 at the South Shore Country Club. There will be cocktails and a buITct supper following the game. 
The weekend of Jan. 20-22, 1967 lias been reserved by tlie Chicago Club at Our Lady of 
Fatima Retreat House on the campus so that 
members and tliclr wives might take part in a truly rewarding experience. Mark tliat date on ^•our calendar now. 
Tills year's Golf Outing & Sports Night will be held Aug. I at the Elmhurst Country Club. Coach Ara Parscgliian and Coach JOHN DEE will be on hand to re\iew the prospects for the 1966-67 Fighting Irish. TIic football highlights of tlic '65 season will be shown. **MOOSE" KRAUS E will scr\'e as master of ceremonies. 
This year's Oktobcrfest Party will be held on Sept. 17 at the Gennania Club. This Is a guaranteed, Inexpensive and fun night for one and all. 
McCormlck Phcc once again has been desig­nated for the welcoming of the incoming Freshmen and their parents into the ofiicial ND family by tlic Chicago Club. It Is an e\'cning designed to familiarize the incoming frosh as to what they might expect and to answer their questions. JIM GIBBONS, assistant director of public relations at the Uni\'ersity, will be there to enlighten all. The date is Sept. 12. T. H.-VYES is to be the (Jialrman of the event. 
—PAT ^fONTROY, Secretary 
CLEVELAND 

Election of ofiicers for the coming year was held on May 19 at the annual business meeting of tlie Club. Elected to office were: FRED NAEGLE, president; RICHARD VAN AUKEN, VP; . GEORGE DURKIN, secretary-; and illCHAEL O'NEILL, treasurer. 
GEORGE KERVER announced that the 
.husband and wife retreat will be held at Our I^ady of Fatima Retreat House on the weekend of July 29. 
A committee composed of JOHN P. COYNE, clialrman, ROBERT DOWD and JAMES FLAN­NERY was appointed to consider and recommend a new permanent meeting location for the Club since Rohr's Restaurant lias been purchased by the City and Is no longer avalbblc for Club meetings. 
August 14, at Gilmour Academy, tlie Club 
•will
 hold its annual Family Picnic, featuring an 

•
Indoor swimming pool and games and prizes for the 5"Oun^tci5. . . —JOHN P. COYN*E, Secretary 


DEARBORN 

Congratulations are in order for the newly 
' elected officers for the coming >*ear. Thc>* are: CHARLIE KITZ, pres.; BILL DeCRICK, VP; BOB MISSEL, sec; DICK KING, RAY DE FALnV and BILL DOSMANN i\we elected as directors. 
The annual Communion Breakfast 'was held ifciy 15 at St. Bemadette Church followed by Breakfast at the Congress Inn. Rt. Rev. Walter. 
J. Schoenherr, pastor of Blessed Sacrament. 
Cathedral, was the guest speaker. —BOB AHSSEL, Secretary. 
DECATUR, ILL. 

Tlicy came from far and wide for the first time to our annual Notre Dame outing. Thirty-three in all accepted the challenge of tlic Country* Club of Decatur's golf course from as far as Springfield, Virginia, Areola and Nfattoon. JOHN HIRCHFELD, Champaign, III., won low gross; and low net yvas won by BERNIE METER, JOHN DUNN, BERNIE LIVERGOOD and NICK NEIERS. JERRY BOLEN competently chair­maned the occasion and President JOE DONO­VAN outlined pbns for a Club trip to the Putrfuc-ND game. 
—STEPHEN GRALIKER, Secretary 
DETROIT 

The Detroit Club swung into a full schedule of summer events under the leadership of its new officers: Pres. C. M. VERBIEST; 1st VP LOUIS 
C. BOSCO JR.; 2nd VP DANIEL KELLY; Treas. MICHAEL HEGARTY; and Sec. THOMAS MOORE. 
Tlie first event of the new* schedule was the annual Golf Outing held at tlic Warwick Hills Country Club, the ^tc of tlic Buick Open. On July 25 a full host of ND men turned out to piny golf and relax in the evening over cocktails and dinner. Coach x\Ta Paiseglilan was the guest speaker and featured guests included: Rev. Jerome Wilson CSC, VP for Business Affairs; Rev. Cbrencc Durbln CSC, ND golf coach; Ed *'ifoosc'* Krausc, ND Athletic Director; assistant football coaches Johnny Ray and ^u l Shoults. 
—THO^L'^S MOORE, Secretary 
^EASTERN INDIANA 

The following, on a motion for unanimous appro\'al of the nominating committee's report, are the officers to serve until the next UND Night: Pres. TOM ADAMS, VP DAVE WILSON', Trcas. JINf CARXES, Cliaplain Father B.^TES, Sec JOHN HYNES. 
—JOHN HYNES. Secretary 
•' HAWAII 

As the newly elected secretary for 1966-67 for the Notre I>amc Club of Hawaii, I am sub­mitting our first report. 
First, our new president is ALBERT LUM '57. 
. Albert is an instructor at Chaminadc College here in Honolulu. He is presently away for three montlis' study and travel throughout Europe. He is an eligible bachelor. The \ice-prcsidcnt is RICHARD ifURATA '54 \vho Is director of accounting with Hawaiian Airlines. He is married and the father of tluxe children. Secretary GROVER KAM '57 is a sales manager for Hawaii \ritli tlie Procter and Gamble Toilet Goods Div. and is married and the father of two. Treasurer BASIL AHAKUELO '63 is presently witli the Job Corps as a vocational director. He Is unmarried. Tlic new officers arc currently planning the budget and schedule for the 1966-67 year. 
—GROVER KAif, Secretary 

' INDIANAPOLIS ^^^ ^ 
A new slate of officers heads up the Indianapolis Club: Pres. ROBERT KESSING; VP THOMAS MURPHY; Sec. THO^L•\S BO\VERS; Trcas. RICHARD OWENS. 
. TIic Annual Stag Party ^\•as held on June 23 at the foaling bam at XfcNamara's Two Gaits Farm in Carmcl. Wc had a lively turnout for one of our most enjoyable afTaiis. Thanks to WALT SAH.M who handled all the details for us. The Broadmoor Country Club A*^^ the scene of the Golf Outing on July 21. On hand to help make this one of the best club affairs of the year wtrc Ara Piirseghian, Red Mackcy, Joe Dicnhart, Jack Mollenkopf of Purdue and Tony Hinkle of Butler. Also on our guest list was Roger Valdiserri, the University's new sports publicist. DON STUHL­DREHER was the clialrman. 
—BOB KESSING, President 
JERSEY SHORE ^ 

The Club's officers for 1966 are: Pres. PETER 
N. BELMO.Vr '44; VP EDWIN VOLL JR.; Sec CHARLES J. KELLER; Trcas. ANTHONY DESIMON. Any Notre Dame man In the Monmoutli and Ocean County area of New Jersey is encouraged to become an active member of the Jersey Shore Club. Those not currently on the Club's maifing list are encouraged to con­tact president Peter Belmont, 160 Rlvcrcdge Rd., New Shrewsbury or Secretary Cliarlie Keller, 416 Crescent Pkivy., Sen Girt. 
—CHARLIE KELLER, Secretary 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
KENTUCKY ^^^^^ 

This spring marked the conclusion of a quite successful period for Kentucky's ND Alumni. This year's Pro Football Raffle for the Club's schobrship fund filled tlie coffers with more revenue than any we received in the past few campaigns. ROGER HUTER, the perennial cliair^ man, descr\'cs much credit for the great success. The most shares were sold this year by FRANK BLOMER who also sold the winning chance. Our special thanks go to Fred Stcier, a friend of the University »vho was another outstanding salesman for our raffle this year. Fred won t^tfo tickets for the '66 season in tlic drawing among top salesmen. 
As is the custom on UND Night a new ad­ministration was installed to lead the Club for the coming year. The new* ofiiccrs for 1966-67 are: Pres. BOB HUETZ '58; Isl VP Jx\CK ZUFELT '57; 2nd VP AL\RION HEFFER.V.-\N; Sec 
IN CANTON, OHIO, above, Bill Belden presents the Man of the Year scroll to Dr. Bernard Bonnot MD; while in Erie, ?a„ right, Most Rev-Alfred M. Watson, auxiliary bishop of Erie receives this year's award from ND Club Treasurer John Mc­Cormick Jr. 
ALUMNUS JULY \966 AUGUST 
OTHER RECIPIENTS of Man of the Year 
Awards not pictured in the May-June issue 
of the ALUMNUS include Tucson's Donald 
T. Vosberg, right in the center photo, who is shown receiving the award from ND Club President Buddy Goldman. Special Club guest of the evening was Archbishop Harold Henry of Korea. Pictured in the right photo are the Buffalo Club's 1965 and 1966 award winners, John M. Considine and A. Gordon Bennett. 
^/vv^ 
GERRY BOLAND; and Treas. DON MOSER. New directors arc RON M.\ZZOLI and JIM HENNESSY. 
The annual retreat at the Abbey of Gethscmani «-as held M.iy 20-22. BERNIE BOWLING handled tlic chairmanship of this function. 
The Club would like to extend its sincere thanks to BILL SHERMAN as outgoing president for his untiring cnerg>' which led to such a great year for the ND Club of Kcntuck\-. 
—GERRY BOLAND, Secretary 

^^^ = LANSING, MICH. ^^ ^ 
The Notre Dame Clubs of Lansing and Detroit joined forces for the annual golf outing at Wanvick Hills Counto* Club, July 25. Ara Parscghian was the guest speaker and a number of Univemt>' dignitaries added to the evening's festivities. July 16 was the date for the family picnic attended by a good crew of ND families. 
A note of special tluinks to Mr. How'ard C. Walsh, owner of the Big Ten Club between 
THE INDIANAPOLIS CLUB'S April 13th UND Night occasioned the presentation of Man of the Year honors to William S. Sahm, above. New York's Waldorf Astoria at the same time was the scene of the NYC Club's dinner at which Edward B. Fitzpatrick Sr. was presented the Man of the Year Award by Club President Gordon Forester, right. Notre Dame's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, was the evening's main speaker. 
Lansing and East Lansing, and a generous bene­
factor of our Club. Thanks to hts cfTorts and 
resourcefulness our Club treasury is sound since 
the addition o | his; check for $393. These were 
the proceeds of our sponsorship of closed-circuit 
TV of the MSU-ND game last fall at the Big 
Ten Club. 
—JOHN POWERS, President 

• . LOS ANGELES ^^^ ^ 
Since our last report the ND Club of Los .Angeles has been busy with a full slate of con­stitutional changes antl elections. At the business meeting all five resolutions to the constitution were adopted and became amendments. Tlie ncu" members on the board of directors, elected at the March 31 meeting, arc: GARY COOPER, TOM CREHAN, JOSEPH McMAHON, TOM POWERS, ED FOX, ED SHIPSTAD, GENE CALHOUN and JI.M GILLIS. Director and honorary president for the term of the iie-\t administration is BOB GERV.AIS. 
PART TWO 

The follo^ving officers were elected at the board of directors* meeting of April 13: Pres. THOMAS POWERS *5G; VP for Club affaire JOHN STEWART; VP for University affaire GARY COOPER; Sec BENJAMIN SALVATY JR.; and Treas. EDWARD FOX. 
A debt of gratitude is certainly owed Dr. LEO TURGEON and committee for arranging a mag­nificent wdcomc to Los Angeles for Ara. Parscgliian. With only a couple of da\*s* notice, Leo and group filled the HotI>'wood Roosevelt's Blossom Room with celebrities and Alumni to hear tlic dynamic coach outline his plans for the football (cam this fall. .4ra was in town for just a little •over 24 hours attempting to locate suitable ac­commodations for the team while they arc here 
next fall. 
The weekend of July 16 witnessed the launching of the first Club fishing trip. TIiosc enlisting in the ND Na\-y left from the Long Bcacli port area for a day out on the seas. 
The annual Club sports dinner was held on June 16 at the Brown Bottle Room of the Schlitz Brewery in Van Nu^-s. A nmnber of guests and apeakcre were on hand to make the c\'cning a truly great night. Fred Schaus, Laker coach; Fresco Thompson, VP of the Dodgcre; and Frank I.cahy were our featured speakers. Among the guests on hand were: Jim Raser of KNX; the voice of the Rams, Bob Kelly: assistant USC coaches Dick Coury and Craig Fcrtig; assistant UCLA coach Lew Stueck; Ram star JACK SNOW and the Cincinnati Ro>-a!s* TOM HAWKINS. I-ocal N D ballplayers Paul Snow, Gerry Kelly and George Kunz were also on hand. 
—TOM POWERS, President 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
: MAINE ^ 

The Notre Dame Club of Maine, small in number and scattered about 500 miles to the wind, was unable to hold a UND night banquet. Our nest aclivily, however, will be the Annual Summer Picnic, August 27, at Camp Sebaik whicli is run by the ND Fathers at Sebago Lake, ^^ainc. AH Alumni in the area, as \vcll as any travelling through the state at that time, are invited. It is hoped that any alumnus travelling up the Maine Turnpike will stop at Exit 13 and come by Geigcr Bros, for a visit. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secretary 
NORTHERN NEVADA^^^ 

Alumni of the Notre Dame Club of Northern Ne\-ada met in May to elect their first officers. REX 
A. BELL JR. ^vas chosen president, while RANDY McELHONE holds the title of honorary president. Others elected to office were: Exec VP JOSEPH PAVLIKOWSKI; VP Lt. Col. CHARLES O'BRIEN; and Sec-Trcas. THOMAS OCHWAT. Trustees of the ncwty formed Club arc: WILLIAM BRONDER, JOHN FLORES MENDOZA, JAMES McGROARTY, JOHN Mc­ELHONE, Judge JOHN MOWBRAY, AHCHAEL HINES. ROBERT SANTA.CRUZ and MICHAEL WENDELL. 
The Club has received 100 tickets for the ND­USC game in Los Angeles, Xov. 26. Anyone wishing to journey up there with the Club should contact RANDY McELHONE or any of the officers. REX BELL will sec that the Club is ollicially represented at the game when he rides a black stallion in half-time competition witli the Trojan white hoi^e. 
^^^ ^ PHILADELPHIA ^^^ ^ 
Last year's "Night at the Races" was so well 
received that JAMES VOIT, chairman of the 
summer outing, ordered a repeat performance for 
this year. The Clan gathered at the Liberty 
Bell Track the e\'ening of June 21, with htgli 
hopes that the Notre Dame Club spedal race 
would pay for the evening. 
JOHN HANNIGAN, chairman of the Knutc 
Rocknc Memorial Award committee, is already 
organizing his troops to make sure that the Club's 
annual award will go to the standout football 
pbycr-studcnt in the Delaware Valley. Last 
word was that this year's winner, Harry Boyd 
of West Catholic High School, is headed for 
ND. Tliis will give us three-for-tliree on Rocknc 
Award winnere. JOHN PERGINE and BILL 
BARTHOLOMEW, the first two winners, are on 
Ara Parscghian's '66 squad. 
—JAMES GALLAGHER, Vice-president 
PinSBURGH ^ 

Tlie new officers for tlie ND Club of Pitts­
burgh arc: Pres. PETER FRIDAY, VP MIKE 
BOYLE, and Sec LEO D. O'DONNELL JR. 
This year's Communion Breakfast was held on 
May 22. Following the 10 a.m. Mass at St. Paul's 
Cathedral, Club members and their families 
gatliered at StouflTer's for breakfast. Bishop 
Vincent XL Leonard, auxiliary bishop of Pitts­
burghj was an honored gue!.t. 
—LEO D. O'DONNELL JR, Secretary 
= ROCHESTER, N.Y. 

Installation of the new officers took place at an April I8th dinner. BILL O'TOOLE is the neiv president. ROY HANNA, after two years of managing the funds as treasurer, moves up to \'ice-prcsidcnt. D.WE MILLER is the new secretary and PHIL YAW.\f.\N is the new-treasurer. There should be a final salute to out­going president, VIN DOLLARD, whose leader­ship put the Club in the best financbl position in which it has ever been. 
The second scholarship will be awarded to a Rochester area student thb fall. The recipient wU receive §300 per year for each of four years, A pnident investment committee headed by CHARLIE O'BRIEN is primarily responsible for the endowment fund now totalling $16,000. 
—JOHN W. GLAVIN, Secretary 
=ROME = 

OUR NOTRE DAME HOSPITALITV CENTER, LARGO BRANC.ACCIO 82, TEL: 730.002 IS 
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
OPEN DAILY. ALL COMERS WELCO.ME! 
EXODUS: ANDY LAWLOR '61, after a Ii.o­
ycar assignment in Naples with the US Navy, 
leaves for the US and higher studies. JOHN 
MOONEY '63, with us a year while teaching 
art at Pius XII Institute of Fine Arts, Florence, 
returns to the US. 
ETERNAL PROCESSION to our door: Mother 
and aunt of JOE CHERNEV '58; JOHN MC­
COR.MICK '48 and wife: "SLIP" MADIGAN 
'20 with his wife and son, ED '54; JIM O'CON­
NOR '27; parents of DON MAIUNO '69; 
brother of Fr. L.WELY CSC; TOM MONAHAN 
'31 and his wife—parents of TOM '61, PAT 
'62, JOE '64 and JIM '67: parents of JOHN 
GE,\REN '65: Mis. "BUCKY" O'CONNOR JR 
'39; father-in-law of ART CONDON '61; sister 
of DAN DUFF\' '65: parents of BILL ARZ­
BAECHER '50: CHARLES KELL '64 with hU 
mother; TOM EARLS '48; Prof. DO.XALD 
BARRET, Sociology ND ; JIM WALSH '64; 
widow of JOE HABERKORN '29; TAUL 
LEHNER '63: mother and sister of PHIL 
ETHERIDGE '61: RtVLPH ZIOLA '59; JIM 
-MAHOOD '65; CAS VANCE '38 and his wife; 
daughter of J. V. MARO.MCK '33; parents 
and brother of Fr. DAVID MAX '56; JOHN 
DORGAN '29 with his wife and daughter; 
JOHNNY JORDAN '33 with wife and son; 
JINt HESBURGH '55 and wife; GEORGE 
COQUILLARD and his wife of the famed 
historic ND-South Bend Coquillard family. 
Mother and sister of R,\NDOLPH SUTLIFF 
'67; Mr. and Mrs. CLE.M THEISEN '32 and 
their daughter — visiting another daughter at 
Loyola U.. Rome campus; ifl C H A E L 
O'SHAUGHNESSY '63; DON FAGON '63; TOM 
ROLFS '44 and his wife: brother-in-law of JOE 
'34 and Br. FERGUS BURNS CSC '34; sister 
of JACK '61 and BILL BURNS '63: DICK 
MILES '« ; JOE BIELECKIE '64: Br. MICHAEL 
MILLER CSC '48: PHIL R.\THWEG '68 and 
his mother; Prof. ROBERT LORDI of the ND 
faculty and his family; HAROLD CLARK '68 
and his mother; MICHAEL MULLEN '60; 
ERNEST GARINO '53; mother of F. DANIEL 
LYONS '60; daughter of REDMOND LYONS 
•36: sbtcr of MIKE COLLINS '69: DAVE DROLL '64 and his wife; CLARE DUBROCK '62; "W/\XIE" WHALEN '62: sister of Fr. COUR CSC; D..\N YOUNG '22; P.VT McCOR^^CK '64; MURRAY BOOTH '32; parents of TER­RENCE ANDREW '61; wife of EUGENE O'REILLY '35; JOHN RYAN '35; JOHN SHEEHAN '68; ALFRED MORIN '68; LARRY MURCHAN '66; GEORGE WENZ '34 and daughters: PAUL R;\DDE '62; ED HUCK & JIM RYMSZA '68: ROSEMARY URB.\NUS (MS '65); wife of Col. R. OTTO PROBST '11; Fr. CHARLES .McCVRRtSGHER CSC; Fr. GREGORY LOMB.-\RDO CSC '41; Fr. WIL­LIAM SCHREIMER CSC '37; Fr. TOM HEWrrr es c '35; Fr. TERRE.NCE O'SHAUGH­NESSY OP on the ND faculty from 1950-52; mother and cousin of JIM BEAfIS '63; cousin of RICHARD JONES '39 and sister-in-law of FIU\NK SCHUACK '43; PAUL BASB.'\GILL '64; ELMER OSTERMEYER '48 and hU wife; CHARLES ROBRECHT '24 and his wife; parents of JOHN HUARTE '65; /\NTHONY O'BOYLE '37; the US Consul in Edinburgh, and his wife. 
Students and alumni from other schools who ''collapsed" in our lounge bailed from St. Mary's, Northeastern, Roseraont, Wisconsin, Loyola (Chicago), LaSallc, Regis (Mass.), Dayton, St. Peter's, Johns Hopkins, Portland, St. Mary­of-the-Woods, Marymount and Marquette. 
—VI.NCE -McALOO.N, Secretary 

^^ ^ SAN DIEGO, CALIF. ^^ ^ 
A new sbtc of officers has been chosen to head the Club during the coming year. JOHN B. MORGAN MO is the new president while assbting him as vice-president is CHARLES F. VAN­DEGRIFT. In the financial department JOHN CIHAK was chosen to handle the funds. In charge of membership is PHIL SHE/V while CLE.M O'NEILL fills the post of corresponding sccretar>*. 
The June Stas Party wtis held at the Club­house on the evening of June 24. In an effort to promote fellowship among the local ND family a combination business and social meeting was the agenda for the night. Following the business meeting a current events film program was presented. 
—PHIL SHE.\, Membership Secretary 
: TOLEDO ^ 

At a board of directois* meeting held recentlyt the following officers were elected for the Notre Dame Club of Toledo's 1966-67 year. Pres. BLAINE WILEY; VP JOE JASINSKI; Sec. AIARSHALL DESMOND; Treas. JOE KALBAS. Biggest project on the horizon is the compiling of a Club directory. If you have any recent change of address, contact Slirshall Desmond and give him all the new' information. 
^^ ^ TRI-STATE ^^ ^ EVANSVIUE, IND. 
The Notre Dame Club of E\'ansviIIe has adopted 
a new name—•the Tri-Stalc Club—and to guide 
it during the coming year is the following slate 
of officers: Pres. AL H.ARDING, VP BOB 
GRIFFIN, and Scc.-Trcas. XfACK STEWART. 
On the agenda are a summer family picnic, a 
Communion Breakfast, Stag Golf Day, and a 
Mardi Gras dinner-dance. 
—MACK STEWART, Secretary 
TULSA 

On March 20, the Club held a Communion 
Breakfast at Christ the King Church and Dan-
ncr*s. Following the breakfast there was a showing 
of the 1965 Football Highlights which had been 
arranged for us by BOB SIEGFRIED. The 
annual retreat was held in conjunction unth the 
men from Christ the King parish at the new 
Jesuit Retreat House in Gushing, April 29-May 1. 
—BARNEY SULLIVAN, Secretary 

^^ = WASHINGTON, D.C. — 
TIic Club held its annual Family Communion 
Breakfast on May 22 at Holy Cross College. 
The 9:30 Mass was followed by breakfast at 
which NORDIE HOFFMAN '33 was the featured 
speaker. He is the national director of the US 
Stcelworkers Union, and was more than qualified 
to speak on "The Responsibility of Full-time 
Citizenship." During the address, the children. 
were entertained ivith movies. 
The newly elected officers are: Pres. WALT 
BRENNAN; VP FR.\NK McCARTHY; Treas. 
RAYMOND RAEDY: Board of Governors 
"2EKE" WOODS and JACK McGRATH. 
On May 24 the Chib took the train to Shenandoah Downs. ^V.Va. for a night at the races, ilost of ihost" who went broke even. Among those who went were: GENE DEVORE. BILL SCANLIN. JOE MALO.N'EY, BOB HUTCHISO.N, RAYAfO.ND R..\EDY, CLIFF LETCHER, PHIL DARMODY. FRf\.\K McCARTHY. JIM IL\YES, BILL BURNETTE, JIM ENRIGHT, J. E. DUQUETTE and JIM KIRWIN. Many wves and friends also made the trip. 
On July 10, Ciub president, Walt Brennan, \V3S host at the summer cocktail party, which is turning into an annual e\-enl. As usual there was a brge turnout for this affair which lasted till dusk. 
Some events on the horizon arc a family picnic to be held in September and a spedal traia up to the Navy game in Philadelphia. 
—R.AYMOND RAEDY, Treasurer 

^^^s YOUNGSTOWN ^^^^ 
Our Annual Golf Outing was held on Wednes­day, June 22 at the Squaw Creek Country Club just north of Youngstown. We had about 60 for golf in the afternoon and a like number for the dinner in the evening. BILL LYDEN and JIM DRISCOLL were co-chairmen of the day*s events. Bill had JOHN HORNEY and DENNIS KILIAN*Y, both members of the Varsity Football Squad at the University as his guests. As both bds are local bo>'5, cver\*one had a most enjoyable time visiting with them. A gala day of goU, dinner and refreshments ^vas had by all who attended. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE KELLEY recently returned from a five-week European tour as representatives of the Youngstown Vindicator ncu'spaper of which George is the assistant managing editor. 
Mr. and Mrs. WRLIAM CUSHWA and family left the middle of June for an approximate one year's residence in New York City where Bill iviU be taking some financial management courses. 
—JOE LINDEN, Secretary 
45 
YEAREND WRAP-UP: 

low of Totals 
There's scarcely a stir these days on Notre Dame's playing fields and 
' courts. Summer has practically declared a moratorium on the groans 
and strains-emanating from Cartier Field. In the Stadium, only the 
whirling water sprinklers at work in the ankle-high turf interrupt 
the hazy, hot Indiana afternoons. V\Tiile in the fieldhouse, the ominous 
solitude there ser\'es only as a reminder that the building's days are 
numbered. 
The playing seasons have come to a halt. Varsity, minor and club 
sports have finished their season, the statistics have been totaled and 
the books closed. The 1965-66 athletic year is but mere history. 
By certain standards, the win-loss statement reflects a not-too­spectacular yeair. Some might even call the 90-65-1 showing less than mediocre, especially alongside Notre Dame's winningest year, the 1957-58 school session when varsity teams amassed a record 102 wins and 23 losses. But the truth of the matter is found, as is true with any sporting event, well beyond that last row of totals. And certainly, in the year just past, a more accurate appraisal of the season is found, not in the face value, but in the overall assessment. Performers and Moments. What did, perhaps, border on the spectacular was the individual performances of several Irish athletes. This was the year new school marks in the mile were set by Ed Dean whose best time both outdoors and indoors was 4:03.6. . . . Coach-of-the-Year honors were conferred on jMike DeCicco by the American Fencing Coaches Association. . . . AU-American designations were made to footballers Nick Rassas and Dick Arrington, and to fencer John Bishko. . . . two promising freshman ti-ackmen emerged. BiU Hurd— clocked in the 60-yard dash at :06.0—and Ed Broderick—himself 5'8", 
high-jumping to a new freshman mark of 6'8" .. . in swimming another .500 season was highlighted by the record-breaking performances of sophomore backstroker and individual medalist, Tom Bourke .. . in a rather unnotable year for ND basketball, the notable leadership of Captain Bucky McGann led a practically nonveteran squad against the top teams in the country . . . the wrestling spotlight once again returned to the hea\'yweight class where Neil Pietrangeli won 18 matches amid an otherwise dismal season. 
For Notre Dame teeims and their fans, there were also many satis­f jdng moments'in 1965-66. October 23 brought the triumphant rematch against Southern California that saw Heisman trophy-winner Mike Garrett held to less than 50 yards before the NCAA-TV game of the week audience . . . the crucial comeback-win for Johnny Dee's cagers against Butler that snapped a 13-game losing streak . . . the beginning of construction of the multimiUion-dollar Athletic and Convocation Center .. . an eighth-place national ranking for the football team, an llth-place finish in the NCAA tournament for Father Durbin's golf team .. . a new record of 296,221 fans who turned out in 1965 for ND's five home football games .. . an undefeated season and Eastern Collegiate Tennis Championship for the tennis team. Scholars and Athletes. This was the year, too, during which many of the University's leading athletes remained among the school's out­standing scholars. Ed Dean and Pedro Rossello, co-recipients of the University's Byron V. Kanaley Award, are but two examples. Dean, who broke all of Notre Dame's track records in the one-mile, was awarded a $1000 scholarship for postgraduate study by the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Holder of a 3.5 cumulative average as an engineering-science major. Dean also received an Atomic Energy Commission Fellowship for graduate study at the University of Cali­fornia at Berkeley. RosseUo, captain of this year's tennis squad and \vinner of 14 matches against one loss, maintained one of the highest scholastci averages in the College of Science premedical program and was overall one of the top honor students at the University. 
And the. sports story does not end there. It continues on into the minor and club sports and into the intramural program, the largest among colleges having noncompulsory participation. It's a story that would fin more than just a mere statistics log and that would have to be told in terms other than just totals. For all in all, the 1965-66 year was, indeed, a very good year. 
K>M':Ml 
McGaii ­
ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUS " 

-'"--'•-'^—-•• 
' 

ALUMNUS JULY 1966 AUGUST 
FOOTBALL 
(Won 7, Lost 2, Tied 1 ; California Purdue Northwestern Army Southern California Navy Pittsburgh Norlh Carolina Michigon State Miami 
BASKETBALL 
(Won 5, Lost 2]} Lewis College.. Wisconsin St. Norbert Michigan State Bowling Green Boston College 
Indiana 
Kentucky Duke Purdue Air Force Creighton Detroit DePaul Loyola of L.A. Illinois Butler Georgia Tech Butler Detroit 
St. John's (New York) N.Y.U. Bradley 
DePou] 
Western Michigan Creiahion 
BASEBALL 

(V/on 12, Lost 14) Tennessee Tennessee Georgia Georgia Oglethorpe Oglethorpe Georgia Tech Georgia Tech Bradley Wisconsin Kent State Kent State N'orthv/estern Detroit Detroit 
Bowling Green Bowling Green A^ichigan Stale Valparaiso Western Michigan Michigan State Toledo Western Michigan Illinois State 
llinois Wesleyan llinois Wesleyan 
6 
25 7 0 7 3 13 0 12 0 
69 
97 
77 
93 
77 
93 80 103 95 109 68 72 97 97 96 120 
9Q •75 
6! 67 
77 
102 55 
79 
S2 • 72 
 •;..»y--«T-cm»gtg-R»;jaawKa^MBi»g 
»<£S^s::3i u 
^^P.^.^'''^ a 
^ s 

Pietrangeli 
TENNIS (Won 14, lost 0) 

8  Northwestern  1  
7  Minnesota  2  
6  Southern Illinois  3  
6  Indiana  3  
9  Purdue  0  
5  Wisconsin  4  
7  Michigan State  2  
9  Kalamazoo  0  
6  Marquette  1  
7  Iowa  2  
8  Cincinnati  1  
9  Western Michigan  0  
6  Toledo  3  
5  Southern Illinois  4  

Notre Dame placed first in Eastern Collegiate Tourney 
INDOOR TRACK (Won 0, Lost 1) Indiana and Purdue at Bloomington— 
Notre Dame 82, Indiana 66, Pur­due 14. 
Michigan State Relays at East Lansing —1st in two-mile relay, 7:36.2. New ND indoor track record. 1st in two-mile run. 4th in one-mile 
run. Notre Dame 42'/j. University of Mich­igan 88 Vi. Central Collegiate Conference Meet-at Notre Dame—Notre Dame 41 , Western Michigan 55. I.C.A!A.A.A. in New York — 2nd in one-mile run NCAA at Detroit — 3rd in one-mile run. 4th in 1000-yard run. Cleveland K of C Relays—2nd in one-mile run. 
FENCING  
(Won 17, Lost 4)  
19  Indiana Tech  8  
20  U.' of Illinois  (Chicago) 7  
24  Indiana  3  
17  Wisconsin  10  
7  N.Y.U.  20  
14  Air Force  13  
18  Iowa  9  
20  Indiana  7  
15  Detroit  12  
20  Chicago  7  
13  Michigan State  14  
14  Ohio State  13  
}5  Illinois  12  
15  Wisconsin  12  
20  Oberlin  7  
22  Cleveland State  5  
24  Case Tech  3  
21  Hobort  6  
16  Buffalo  11  
12  -. Wayne State  15  
13  Detroit  14  

24 5 16 23 10 0 
25 0 1 13 11 14 
4th 
9 13 7 5 3 2 
3 0 0 4 4 ]2 7 7 9 3 3 4 
WRESTLING. 
(Won 3, Lost 8) Valparaiso Western Michigan Illinois University 
Wabash College Purdue Miami of Ohio 
_ _.. 
("inrinnnti  Bowling Green 
 3rd Wheaton Tournament 
Boll State Marquette Wheaton 
Four-I Tournament 
HOCKEY (Won 6, Lost 9, Tied 3) 
Lewis College Northern Illinois University Tazewell Hockey Association Denison University 
Erie Lions 
Boston State Holy Cross 
Nichols University of Toledo Northwestern Beloit lewis College Air Force Academy Lake Forest College St. Procopius College University of Toledo Northwestern Bowling Green 
OUTDOOR TRACK (Won 1, Lost 2) 
1 2 3 5 5 16 9 7 
12 4 7 4 4 7 0 5 6 5 

Kentucky Relays—1st Distance Med­ley Relay. 2nd two-mile run. 3rd shuttle hurdle relay. 3rd open 100. 
Notre Dome 48, Army 97 at Notre Dame. 
Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa — 3rd in 1000-yard run. 3rd in 60­yard dash. 3rd in high.jump. 
Indiana State Meet at Bloomington—=• (Big State) Indiana 79, Notre Dame 68'/j. Ball State 51. 
Notre Dame 54, Michigan State 87 at East Lansing. Notre Dome 86, Pittsburgh 59 at No­tre Dame 
Central Collegiate Conference Meet at Notre Dame — Michigan State 4914, Western Michigan, Southern Illinois 41, Kansas 37, Notre Dome 18. 
NCAA Meet in Bloomington—^sixth in 880-yard run. 
11 ND 27" 58 17 59 10 33 
23 53 56 

35 39 
8 

82 
35 

33 24 22 
52 27 58 19 31 37 
SWIMMING (Won 6, Lost 6) 
Relays *- ND 
Vorsity-Frosh 
Kent State 
Bowling Green 
Miami of Ohio 
Western Ontario 
Illinois 
Wayne State 
New Mexico 
Western Michigan 
Ball State 
Purdue 
Northwestern 
Ohio U. 
2nd 42 35 62 42 39 
56 13 62 71 43 
47 
64 58 
1965-66 

SCOREBOARD 
GOLF (Won 23, Lost 7) Notre Dame 736, Dayton University 
777, Northern Illinois 822, Western Illinois 755, Bowling Green 764. 

Notre Dame 756, Iowa University 772, Michigan State 762, Indiana 749. 
. 

Purdue 736, Notre Dame 764, Ohio State U. 769, Indiana 770, North­western U. 797, Illinois U. 798. 
Northern Intercollegiate Invitational Tournament — Ohio State U. 1st, Purdue 2nd, Michigan U. 3rd, Mich­
, igon State 4th, Indiana U. 5th, 
- Notre Dame 6th. 
Notre Dame 745, Michigan State 774, Northwestern U. 782, Illinois State U. 786. 
Notre Dame 734, Southern Illinois U. 756, Toledo 756, Central Michigan U. 797. 
NCAA Chompionship at Polo Alto, Calif.—Houston 1st, Notre Dame nth. 
TRACK Dual Meets Only (Won 4, lost 3) 
CROSS-COUNTRY (Won.3, Lost 0) 

15' Indiana 50 ND Invitational — NDIst 17 Michigan State 43 Indiana State Meet ^ ND 1st 25 Chicago Track Club 34 CCC — 7th with second team 1C4A—2nd NCAA — 9th 
ALUMNUS JULY \9i6 AUGUST 
-i—-T"^'fT-fta«.»»y»m8WP<amMpn<ginias«oi«qai 
By JIM MURRAY 

A
H! THE good old summertime. Apple blossom time. Sailing along Moonlight Bay. You ought to see little me and Marie by the old seashore. And all that See the happy children at their play — loading up bottles with gasoline. See the happy picnickers on the top of the mountain — burning crosses and cutting eyeholes in sheets. 
Season for Violence. Summer, 1966, America the Beautiful is America the Bloody. From sea to shining sea. The Old Mill Stream runs red. You can shine on, harvest moon, but we can see all right by the glare of burning automobiles anyway. Oh,, say, can you see — by the cops' burning car. Don't sit under the apple tree, we're using it to string someone up. The melting pot has sprung a leak. 
The unconscious irony of the news items hits you: 
"The Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee 
returned the fire." It's a line George Orwell would 
love. "The Ministry of Truth issued the following lies 
today." Mahatma Gandhi wearing a saber. 
People 80 floors above the teeming streams and 
nine million light years above the problem, reduce 
it to committees, social reports, dollars and cents. 
They are sure money can buy understanding—but 
even guns have a better record at it. 
Tonimy Hawkins is a Negro basketball player, one of the best. He has no desire to be called "Uncle Tommy" and, at 6-5 and 220 pounds with legs like springs and arms like pistons, he doesn't expect to be by anything less than an armed mob. 
But he got sick of the taunts of his employers, well-respected leaders of the Negro business commu­nity: "All you athletes do is take — what do you put back into the community? When trouble comes, you say, 'Not me, baby!' " 
Goals Not Guns. The result is "Athletes for a Better America," an interracial group of high scorers, hard hitters, fast movers, and swift throwers, who hope to encourage kids to throw balls instead of bombs, hit curves instead of each other, bum up base paths instead of police cars. Elgin Baylor, Roosevelt Grier, Jerry West, Jack Snow, Woodley Lewis, and any athlete with a sense of responsibiUty to more than his pocketbook wiU join. 
The Hawk makes it clear "we don't claim to be the answer to the social iUs of our day. We want to save our youth, not necessarily our establishment." He is in favor of rights, not riots: civil rights, not civil wrongs. He feels additionally that "you cannot promote understanding by remote control. You need face-to-face communication." A man carrying a ball will be easier to talk to than one carrying a gun, he feels. 
rights 
Rebounds. The program vdU be carried to the underprivileged kids of all , races and creeds. It will consist of clinics t^f^l " but wiU not stop there. Tommy believes ^ ^ it's no good just to issue copies of > ^ ^ , "How To Play Checkers In Your J^(OLS Spare Time Instead of Whatever . It Is You're Doing." The clinics will be followed by what he calls a "What's Bugging You?" buU session. 
If the program works — and Tomniy proposes to keep going after the rebounds until it does — the real patron saint may be a Chicago high school coach named Eddie O'Farrell. Tommy Hawkins, as a Chi-
ALUMNUS JULY 19(56 AUGUST 
TOMMY HAWKINS, 

NOTRE DAME'S 1959 ALL-AMERICAN BASKET­
BALL STAR, NOW HEADS AN ALL-PRO GROUP 
OF ATHLETES PROMOTING THE WELL-BEING 
OF YOUNGSTERS "REGARDLESS OF RACE ... " 
cago kid, could just as easily run the streets as well as a basketball court. 
The home, as so many are, was fatherless and one night, when Tommy was going to duck a father-and­son banquet because he would have only an empty chair, O'Farrell said, "I'll be your father." Hawkins went on to Notre Dame where he saw at first hand what open lines of communication could accomplish. 
The "Athletes for Better America" is deserving of everyone's support. It's a better try than some "Politicians for a Worse America" or the 'l-Got-Mines for a Status Quo America." It's a try to put the cool on a long hot summer, and see that Every Man's Country doesn't turn out to be just another No Man's Land. 
Copifright 1966, Los Angeles Times Reprinted icith its permission 
i9. 

Corby  Hall,  
u'otre  Dame,  Ind.  4655S  
Uocr  rc-i.'ov/  
privueoo  
•—  the  very •  ;::e  Class  
of  193 6  c:r.  
iirric.  i!  \--::;  ;  a:  one  
.•r;err;!:cr  of  ;  re  Dc:r,e  
as  a  .'•'.'.';L;:;;  
nicr'bo: s  
:: u:, c  c  iJ r;  
•pea  i:;.: ::  o  

J' ' '  
/:.  V> 1  
-•ci'a;:  
Si-'?'  \  V:­ 
"cy  73: c::C[:;e  
• on;  .-.!i! be r  
c:u,roc: ;:j 1::  
.-•J  ,g;i; "^,  ^ j  
[•^s  .•^i­ 








