The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
.-r^-r-" j^^^i^r 
CO 
NOTRE DAME 
gMlMll :s3 
—f C3 3> CO 
may 1966 June 
nra0clmr>uni« 
Reunion time, June 10-11-12! Most of you know the enjoyable weekend the Class Reunion brings. The major factor in its success is your attendance. Re­member this year the first Continuing Education program de­signed specially for Alumni, coming just before the Reunion Weekend, June 9-10. "The Population Problem" is one of the most urgent modem areas of discussion. You are expected to know the best opinions in the field. 
Be sure to read in this issue about GRAD, the new alumni placement program established by the College Placement Asso­ciation. This computerized central plan seems to us here at Notre Dame, and on your Alumni Board, to move the solution of the placement of alumni far ahead of any schedule an individual institution might set up. Rev. Louis Thornton CSC is equipped to give Notre Dame Alumni full cooperation in utilizing this new plam. 
The 43rd Universal Notre Dame Night is history. It set new records for number of Clubs observing the occasion, and for campus speakers appearing nationally. Our sincere thanks go to the hundreds of Club officers and committees who made this one of the outstanding events in Notre Dame Alumni history. UND Night has grown since forty Clubs—most of them brand-new— itiet in 1924, .into its present major public relations contribution to the University through some 125 meetings held throughout the US and abroad. With the strengthening of the Alumni Office staff, this occasion will take on even more significance in the immediate years ahead. 
As we near the Alumni Association Centennial—^1968—our major segments are beginning to show encouraging strength: Clubs, spearheaded by UND Night; the Classes, highlighted by the reunions and the "Class Notes"; the Annual Alumni Fund, focused now through the personal Class Agent Program; and the magazines, the ALUMNUS and INSIGHT: Notre Dame, which speak 
editorial for themselves in enthusiastically received improvements of format 
and content. In addition, the new 
comment Continuing Education Program and the new Placement Program (GRAD) promise great sen'ice to Alumni of the future. But most of all, the University of Notre Dame seems to be on the brink of its dreamed-of destiny. Its accelerating oppor­tunities have already challenged the imagination and the sup'­port of all Alumni and friends. The indicated expansion of these opportunities wiU require every strength that every phase of the Alumni Association program can develop. Tangible effort has already been marked by tangible reward. The realization of the imminent stature of Notre Dame in the educational world will increase the length and -shadow of every Notre Dame man. 
< 
Q 

P3 H O 
Z 

This mosazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dome, Ind. Entered as second-class motter Oct. 1, 1939, at the post oirice, Notre Dome, Ind., under the 
actolAog.24, )91Z 
-

JAMES E AtMSnONG '25 EDITOe 
JOHN t THUUN '59 MANAGING EDITOt 
!fc 

r. MICHAEL BASQE 6& EDITOIIAl ASSISTANt 
Iff 

UUCE HAIIAN '49 
mOTOGtArHEt 
EOWAID E. HBtlMANN <?^ ^Z(<f't^<fM^ A«T CONSUITANT 
JAMES E. MUlmr M7 rtnUC INFOIMATION 
til 

JOHN H. JANOWSn -51 nooucnoN cootnNATOt 
'^I^ 
y^ 
wet* ' 

•<- "^"^ 7 ^ ,-> f'S/ 
~-*=5* 

c^clar point ND weekend \ 
10 


new placement service for alumni 
14 


Class reunions in sixty-six 34 1966 UND nigtit 

\ 
/ 

^ ^ 
A 
w



% \ I ^ 17 \ 

ALIMNI ASSOCIATION lOARO OF DIRECTHS 
ACADEMIC AFFAUS 735 NORTH 57 AVE. 
iMcnBniM 

ADMISSIONS OMAHA, NES. 6«I32 W . lANCASTEt SMITH 'SO 
VnUlAM a KAVANAUGH '27 H0NO«A«Y RESIDENT. ­
10S0 N GtEEN BAY ID. 
lAKE FOBEST, IlL <0045 3445 OIOWAY ST, hLW. 

MEcms n iiH 
THOMAS P. CAJNEY'37 WASHNGTON, DC. 20016 MESIDENT . 
BEITBANO D COUGHUN, M.D. "Sft JOSEPH H CASEY '32 STUDENT AFFAIRS 19965 BtlARCUFF WIUIAM F. ICEIW«4, a. '40 BEtTBAND D. COUGHUN, M,a '26 yiCE-PSESIDENT 
BUDGET DETROIT, MICH 48321 no t EMiUE ST. 16 THOtNDElL Dt GKEN lAY, WIS. 54301 WllllAM V, CUDDY 'i j ', ST. lOUIS, MO. 63117 THOMAS W CARROLL "51 

- VICE-PSESIDENT : 17 CARLTON RD KHAI O A. lOSENTHAL '54 WIUIAM V. CUDDY '62 HUTCHINSON, KAN 6750J 15670 HEAITHSTONE Dl. 
HE«BE«T M; SAMPSON '{0 ' -. 

PUa tEl AND DEVEIOPMENT MISHAWAM, INOL 46544 V1CE-P«ESIDENT , 

PLACEMENT AMBROSE F DUDLEY, JR. '43 JAMES E. AIMST«ONG '25 1 » BAIPH AVE. 519 SUSSEX RO 
LEO V TUIGEOH M.D. '42 


:: EXECUTIVE SECIETA«Y : WHITE FUUNS, NY. 10606 WYNNEWOOD. PA 19096 
SUHE 107 CIENSHAW MEDICAl ONTEI 
CHARLES J. PAHERSON '47 73 Mr WAYNE AVE. 
•KCTIISTilMT;;: HEIBEIT M. SAMPSON 'iO 3731 STOCnl ST 
ATHLETIC FRAMINGHAM. MASS. 01702 

THOMAS P. CAINEY "37 • 

lOS ANGElESt CALK. 90008 
ACADEMIC FREEDOM: 


An Examination 
"Freedom is a very dangerous word. .. . Of all the words in almost all the languages today, 'freedom' surely evokes the strongest re­sponse." Thus spoke Rev. Ernan :McMullin, head of the Notre Dame department of philosophy, at the University's symposium on "Aca­demic Freedom and the Catholic University," April 22 and 23. 
Jointly sponsored by the Uni­

versity's chapter of the American 
Association of University Professors 
(AAUP), the Office of Academic 
Affairs and the academic commission 
of the Student Senate, the sym­
posium heard eight speakers and a 
number of panelists consider this 
"very dangerous word" in the realm 
of academic life. 
The possibilities of a conflict be­tween complete academic freedom and the dogmatic rigors of the Catholic Church received immediate attention. 
"There is some contradiction be­tween the search for academic freedom . . . and the assurance to all religious groups of their full right to maintain universities com­mitted to their own moral and religious principles," said Dr. David Fellman, retiring president of the AAUP and professor of political science at the University of Wis­consin. "K the theological commit­ments of the institution make it impossible to observe the basic principles of academic freedom . . . then whether such an institution has a right to be regarded seriously as a member of the family of higher learning becomes th e essential issue," warned Fellman. 
The possibility of such a conflict was not so apparent in the address of Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, Notre Dame's vice-president of academic affairs. "Genuine learning, valid 
scholarship, can only take place in an atmosphere of free and open inquiry," said Father Walsh. "AH the demands of learning can be and must be adhered to in a Catholic university." 
There were definite qualifications placed upon the concept of freedom by Father Walsh and other speakers, however. "Academic freedom, like all human freedoms," commented Walsh, "is a limited freedom and even that is never fuUj' realized." Father JMcMuUin said that both stu­dent and academic freedoms are essential to the learning process, but care is needed to determine which freedoms are essential and which are e.xlranoous to that purpose. Referring to an earlier remark by Sister Charles Borromeo CSC, assistant director of the graduate school of theology at St. JMai-y's 
College, Father McMullin said that "students tend to confuse personal freedom and academic freedom." 
Student freedoms — personal and academic—received resounding sup­port from Commonweal associate editor Daniel Callahan who asserted that more academic freedom for students is essential to the very survival of Catholic universities. Notre Dame Student Body President IVIinch Lewis, a member of the panel with Callahan, responded with an "Amen" and the students in the audience offered a prolonged ovation. 
"Students are badly disillusioned by being told they are mature and responsible on one hand and then being saddled with numerous restric­tions," said Callahan. "If Catholic colleges don't follow this need for academic and student freedoms," added Callahan, "they will lose both 
faculty and students of quality." 
"Colleges do not collapse when students are given freedom," jMinch Lewis asserted, "but there is a tremendous fear of this on the part of the administration." After the failure of the "piecemeal" rela.xa­tion of student regulations at Notre Dame during recent years, there is a need for a "radical" move for freedom, contended Lewis. 
Associate professor Frederick J. 
Ill 
\ 
r 
ALUMNUS MAY 196iS JUNE 

Crosson, head of the Notre Dame General Program, offered the posi­tion that the primary function of a university "is not instruction, but inquiry. Theology in college," con­tinued Crosson, "ought not to be doctrinal instruction but reflective theorizing." 
Much the same position was voiced by Father Walsh, who said that trouble arises when the Catholic university is regarded as an institu­tion . . . "whose primary respon­sibility is to teach a given set of doctrines, values or attitudes. The University should never be confused with the other and ordinary means which the Church has for carrying out its teaching function." 
IMuch conflict has centered around the priest-teacher combination and academic freedom. Rev. John L. McKenzie SJ, a visiting professor at the University of Chicago Divinity School who will join the Notre Dame faculty in September, asserted that "the authority which governs (the priest-teacher) as a priest is not competent to judge him as a scholar. As we all know," Father McKenzie admitted, "authority has destroyed priests as scholars." 
The dilemma of modern education, concluded Father Walsh, is "not why there should be Catholic universities, but rather how any institution of higher education in which theology is not taught can call itself a university." 
ND COMMUNITY: 


A Criticism 

In a lengthy letter Dec. 2, 1965, Ralph Martin Jr. '64 told the Uni­versity's president. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, that Notre Dame suffers from a "pastoral gap" that prohibits students from finding what it means to be a "real Christian" and allows "practical paganism" to per­vade each graduating class. A magna cum laude graduate of the University and winner of the Dock­weiler Award in philosophy, Martin received a Woodrow Wilson fellow­ship to study philosophy at Prince­ton. Now on leave from his studies, 
11 
he is working with the National Secretariat of the Cursillo movement in Lansing, Mich. 
"As I was e.xposed to the best that Notre Dame had to offer . . . ," wTote Martin, "I grew farther and farther away from Christianity. Those who were thriving on the new Notre Dame, on academic excellence, seemed more and more to be focusing precisely on that; on the university part of Christian university." 
For the former Juggler editor, "the vitality and honesty" of those "thriving on academic excellence seemed more attractive and alive than Christianity." This atmosphere spawns the "practical paganism" that "pervades eac h graduating class." But it goes even deeper, e.x­plains JMartin: "The practical axis of most Notre Dame students' lives is 'getting ahead,' 'being a success' 
— not in giving witness to their Lord " 
With this course set, the future of Notre Dame, in Martin's eyes, is a dismal one. "In the not too distant future, Notre Dame wiU no longer 
ALUMNUS MAY 1964 JUNE 

be a Christian university in any way other than Yale or Harvard are Christian universities. . . . Notre Dame is becoming more lilie the pagan and secular modern world rather than asking the world to become more and more like the Kingdom of God," he wrote. 
The way out of this secular labyrinth is through a "Christian community where life is being lived in a serious and appropriate liturgy, in a common life of obedience and faith to God's Word. . . ." The CursiUo movement is one key to such a community, insists Martin, with the addition of two other elements: a pastoral plan to "coordinate the total apostolic effect in an area," and a movement of priests into communi­ties in which they devote their main efforts to pastoral work, being "men growing in holiness" rather than "professional psychologists." 
Although a pointed criticism of Notre Dame, the letter did not re­main private — nor unanswered. Released by Father Hesburgh in the April 16 edition of Ave Maria maga­
telyou felt that the most any Cath­olic college can do is "lead the stu­dent to the threshold" and provide him with the tools to meet and resolve the crisis. Martin fails to appreciate this, says Father Cor­telyou, and insists that the Catholic university do more. To do this "is to confuse the purpose of a Catholic university with that of a seminary or a monastery." 
Father Reinert extends much the same philosophy, explaining that the primary aim of a Catholic university is to continue the intellectual achievement, while the "spiritual growth must be shared with other basic influences in the student's life —^his home, his parish church. . . ." 
"He overestimates what the role of a school is," comments Father Leary. "Its chief aim is to open the mind and the emotions to the real. It must eventually let the decider decide." To Father Leary, Martin is not unlike a Manichaeist sup­porting the doctrine "that material things are bad, getting ahead is bad, getting a fellowship is unbecoming; 
AAUP CHAPTER PRESIDENT JOHN W. HOUCK 
"Recent events al various Catholic universities have raised serious questions." 
zine, the letter was accompanied by analyses of Father Hesburgh and the presidents of seven other leading Catholic universities: Rev. John R. Cortelyou CM, of De Paul in Chi­cago; Most Rev. John J. Dougherty, auxiliary bishop of Newark and pres­ident of Seton Hall; Rev. Paul C. Reinert SJ, St. Louis University; Rev. Gerard J. Campbell SJ, George­town; Rev. John P. Leary SJ, Gon­zaga; Rev. Colman J. Barry OSB, St. John's, CoUegevUle, Minn.; and Sister Mary William, Immaculate Heart College, Los Angeles. 
The primary observation made by many of the university presidents centered around the true purpose and aim of the Catholic university. Referring to Martin as a "contem­porary Kierkegaard," Father Cor­only high, spiritual and sacred things matter." 
Father Hesburgh commented, "I think that college experience itself has a lot to do with the problem. A university is a microcosm, a place where aU the tensions of the time tend to focus. It is a lively place . . . you have all the ingredients for a kind of crisis." 
"Maybe to talk about a pastoral vacuum might be to use the wrong word," continued Father Hesburgh. "We are in a time of pastoral change, certainly. New forms are evolving and new symbolism; the emphasis is on the Word as against the novenas." 
"At an earlier age, there was an enormous emphasis in the Catholic universities on moral formation. .. . 
Universities were often put in the 
sam e category as seminaries," 
Father Hesburgh explained. "But at 
the same time one has to always 
hold that the primary purpose of 
the university is intellectual forma­
tion. . . ." 
Considering the overall problem. 
Sister Mary William writes, "I would 
maintain that Catholic campuses 
have never been noted for their 
pastoral vigor. 'Old grads' of Notre 
Dame and every other Catholic 
college may protest this assertion. 
If, indeed, the old days were better, 
it .was because the students were 
more docile, not because the faculty 
was more zealous and holy." 
STUDIES ABROAD: 


Les Etudes en Angers 
The French countryside, where great psunters and distinguished authors have been inspired, wiU become the next site of Notre Dame's expanding overseas campuses. Two years ago sophomore students had the option of spending the year at the University of Innsbruck, Austria. This year they may also study in France—at the Catholic University of the West in Angers and with the unusual development that St. Mary's College students will also be enrolled in the program. 
Dr. Thomas E. Stewart, associate vice-president for student affairs, spoke of the success of the Innsbruck program: "We are very much pleased with its development and we're convinced that a year of study abroad can be a significant factor in a student's educational develop­ment" 
Taking advantage of just such an opportunity for development, the ' Angers-bound students will sail from New York August 26 and will spend their first week of the program engaged in an intensive language and orientation program on the Angers campus. The semester will begin about mid-October with the students *• expected to pursue a liberal arts ; program. Included amon g the courses to be offered are studies in \ French language and literature, the ( history of the arts, French history, Christian anthjopology, philosophy in France and political and economic .« institutions. 
To further the Notre Dame group's integration with the rest of the stu-| dent body at Angers, the Notre ' Dame and St. Mary's students will take aU their courses in the French language and will be taught by the ^^ faculty members of the Catholic University of the West. The group will be housed both in student 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 

residences and with families in pri­vate homes. At midyear the stu­dents %vill exchange their types of residences so that each will be given the opportunity to live in both a dormitory and a private home. They will also dine in the student restau­rant where the French students are 
' > accustomed to taking their meals. Angers, located southwest of Paris, has a population of 130,000. Its history as a university city goes back to the fourteenth century when the University of Angers was founded. It ceased to e.xist during the French Revolution, but in 1875 the present University of the West was founded as a regional university representing the thirteen dioceses of Western France. The university has an enrollment of 3,200 students and is headed by Rev. Jean Honore. 
UNIVERSITY THEATRE: 



Debut of a Medium 
A spiritualist came to Notre Dame and brought with her not only ghosts and voices from the past, but a whole new dimension to Notre Dame's repertoire of drama. 
Directed by Rev. Patrick H. Maloney CSC, the May production of Gian-Carlo Menotti's "The Medi­um" proved that not only was opera a fit medium for the University Theatre, but that the Notre Dame players were more than capable of handling a tragic music-drama. 
The opera, thought by many to be Menotti's finest work, is well-suited to college stage productions. It requires a small, but strong cast, a three-piece "orchestra," and set decoration and lighting that call for artistry rather than the pageantry of the more lavish theatre. 
The leading role was played by Carolyn Jaskunas, a St. Mary's stu­dent whose previous appearances on the ND stage have more than pre­pared her for the difficult role of Madame Flora, the Medium. Carolyn displayed harshness of character in her role as Mrs. Peachum in last year's production of "Threepenny Opera"; and her ability to change emotion was demonstrated in her role as the flighty Jlrs. Biedermann in "The Firebugs." Both of these qualities were called for in Madame Flora who carried the Medium from moments of sweetness through fits of anger and temper, to the final, tragic emotion of intense fear. 
Terry Francke and Stephanie Black played the roles of the young lovers whose fate is tragically inter­woven with that of Madame Flora. Francke, who was seen last year as Thomas More in "A Man For All Seasons," played the role of the young mute assistant to the fake spiritualist. Stephanie Black, who is 
TOBY A mute in tender appeal 
MADAME FLORA AND MONICA 
Song beneath the Zodiac 
only a sophomore at St. Mary's Academy, was cast in the role of Monica, the daughter of 'Madame Flora. 
The play builds in intensity mov­ing from a focus on the clients of Madame Flora—played by David A. Garrick, Jr., Patricia Culp and Joan Weber Tweedell — who seek com­munication with deceased fanuly members to the tragic interplay be­tween development of young love and the disillusionment and growing fear of the older woman. Supporting the building theme of the play is the recurrent tone of the music. The "orchestra" consists of two pianos, played by Thomas Nadar and Daniel Diggles, and percussion by Donald Koma. 
The stag e setting, done by Charles P. Lehman, presents a squalid flat—a suitable atmosphere for the chicanery of the Gypsy spiritualist. The lighting of the play is excellent—^it heightens the mood of growing fear with a strong impact on the dramatic scene of Madame Flora's ironic belief in her own craft. 
The successful presentation of "The Medium" by the University Theatre has debunked the notion that spring musicals are synonymous with light-headed comedies. The introduction of the tragic music-drama has offered a new dimension for future presentations. 
SCENE OF THE SEANCE The Medium loses her clients 


CEDAR POINT, OHIO: 


SITE OF N AMILY FESTIVAL 
Each summer, Notre Dame students seek employ­ment at Cedar Point, Ohio, a resort along the shores of Lake Erie. It was there during the summer of 1913 that two ND student lifeguards developed the forward pass and that fall used the new and revolutionary football strategy to defeat Army and gain national prominence for Notre Dame. 
In the past three years, mainly through the efforts of the Alumni Club of Cleveland, Cedar Point has come to have another, more modern meaning for Notre Dame men. Cedar Point is the site of the annual Notre Dame Mdwest Family Festival, an event filled with fun, excitement, entertainment, sports, or just simple rela.xation. 
Noon Friday, July 8, marks the opening of the 1966 event, a three-day Eiffair that has grown each year from its beginnings in July, 1964. 
As in the past, alumni and their families and friends, may stay at the "world's largest summer hotel," the 1,000-room Hotel Breakers, overlooking the lake shore. Because the festival is a weekend affair, the hotel requires reservations for both Friday and Saturday nights. In addition to accommodations, restaurants, cocktail lounges and gift shops, the hotel offers guests babysitting and nursery facilities. 
Under the chairmanship of Richard H. Miller, the Notre Dame festival boasts fireworks, buffet dinner, dancing and a golf tournament, in addition to the mile-long beach facilities and the Disneyland-like amuse­ment park surrounding the hotel. 
With new rides added for 1966, the amusement area now includes antique train, automobile and pirate ship rides, a paddle wheel steamer tour of a frontier setting, a monorail train, an 80-foot-high roller coaster ride and many more attractions—all spanned by a Swiss cable car system and looked down upon by a "Space Spiral" which whisks passengers 300 feet into the air. 
All these facilities await the alumnus and his family, with festival attenders receiving complimen­tary rides on the antique Cedar Point and Lake Erie Railroad and special discount prices on books of amusement ride tickets. 
For those who enjoy divoting around a golf course, Saturday's events include a tournament at the Huron, Ohio, Thunderbird Golf Course. That evening, ofliicials and personalities from the University will speak before a buffet dinner, followed by a fireworks display and band concert As the evening progresses still further, a big name band will play for dancing, whUe a Dixie-
THE WESTERN CRUISE BOAT is but one of the many fun-filled attractions at Cedar Point that await Notre Dame Alumni and their families, July 8-10, at the Third Annua! ND Midwest Family Festival. Among the other amusements on the park's Funway are a roller coaster, sky ride, space spiral and the Cedar Point and Lake Erie Railroad. 
land band and a combo play in other areas aroimd the hotel. 
The festival will close Sunday after a memorial Mass and breakfast. 
A hospitality room will be off the main lobby of the hotel on opening day, handling family registrations and handing out name tags, room rosters of alumni attending and schedules of events. 
A welcoming open house is slated in the hospitality room from 6:00 to 8:30 p.m. Friday to get families introduced at the beginning of the weekend. Free soft drinks and snacks will be provided at this intro­ductory meeting. 
Last year, 57 families stayed throughout the festival, with more than 300 visiting during the days. A few families took advantage of the hotel's 1,000­boat marina and floated in, bringing their accommoda­tions with them. 
\\Tiether you float, fly or drive, however, come for the weekend—or at least for a day—to the Notre Dame Midwest Family Festival at Cedar Point (San­dusky) Ohio, July 8, 9, 10. 
THE HOTEL BREAKERS, a 1,000-room colonial hotel, will be the official residence for Notre Dame Alumni and friends during the Midwest Family Festival weekend, July 8-10. 
AlUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
FACULTY: 

Professorial Promotions 
Notre Dame's faculty was pro­
jected into the University limelight. 
May 10, when the annual President's 
Dinner honoring its retiring and 
promoted members was held in the 
North Dining Hall. In traditional 
fashion. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
CSC hosted the entire faculty and 
professional staff of the University 
and their wives. 
A standing ovation greeted the 
presentation of a special citation to 
retiring Rev. Philip S. Moore CSC 
who has served the University for 
33 years. Father Moore was cited 
for his "distinguished academic 
career" during which he "has greatly 
enriched the life and quickened the 
spirit of the University of Notre 
Dame." During his years at ND, 
Father Moore served as a professor, 
as dean of the Graduate School, as 
vice-president for academic affairs, 
and as academic assistant to the 
president. 

Announcing the honors, Rev. John 
E. Walsh CSC, vice-president for academic affairs, also cited Prof. Milko Jeglic of the mathematics de­partment who is retiring after hav­ing taught at Notre Dame since 1953. Rev. G. Carl Hager CSC, head of the department of music, Ale.\ander 
A. Petrauskas, associate professor of physics, and Joseph C. Ryan, asso­ciate professor of English, were honored for their twenty-five years of sen'ice to the University. 
Faculty members who were pro­moted to the rank of full professor: James J. Carberry, chemical engi­neering; Rev. Raymond F. Cour CSC, government and international studies; Robert E. Gordon, biology; Seymour L. Gross, English; V. Paul Kenney, physics; Ruey-wen Liu, electrical engineering; William T. Liu, sociology; James L. Massey, electrical engineering; Charles E. Parnell, modern languages; Francis 
H. Raven, mechanical engineering; Thomas L. Shaffer, law school; and Anthony H. P. Skelland, chemical engineering. 
Named to the rank of associate professor: Donald N. Barrett, soci­ology; George A. Brinkley, govern­ment and international studies; Rev. Lawrence G. Broestl CSC, modern languages; Eugene R. Brzenk, En­glish; Paul R. Chagnon, physics; Donald P. Costello, English; Brian 
A. Crumlish, architecture; Ivan Derado, physics; Ronald J. Downey, microbiology; Yusaku Furuhashi, marketing management; Edward A. Goerner, government and interna­tional studies; John W. Houck, busi­ness organization and management; Gerald L. Jones, physics; Randolph 
J. Klawiter, modern languages; Rev. Patrick H. Maloney CSC, music; Jerome L. Novotny, mechanical engineering; Karamjit Rai, biology; Kenneth M. Sayre, philosophy; Bruce 
B. Schimming, civil engineering; Rev. Edward S. Shea CSC, modern languages; Edward Vasta, English; Vladeta Vuckovic, mathematics; and Rev. Joseph L. Walter CSC, chemistry. 
Faculty who were named assistant professors: Nicholas DiCianni, com­puting science; Theodore Ivanus, government and international studies; Rev. James J. McGrath CSC, biology; Walter J. Nicgorski, govern­ment and international studies; Stephen J. Rogers, general program; and James H. Walton, English. 
CSC's: 


A Silver Celebration 
The traditional ND blue and gold will take on a silver hue for 21 Holy Cross priests this summer when they return to campus to celebrate the 25th anniversary of their ordination. And for many it wiU be a double reunion—aU but 7 graduated from Notre Dame in the Class of '37. 
The jubilarians will offer a con-celebrated Mass of thanksgiving in the chapel of Moreau Seminary on June 15. They -will be joined by another Moreau Seminary class­mate. Chaplain (Brig. Gen.) Francis 
L. Sampson of the Continental Army Command, who was ordained a diocesan priest in 1941. After Mass the priests wiU be honored by the Holy Cross Community at a banquet given in their honor in the seminary dining room. 

A number of the priests have served on the Notre Dame faculty and staff. Rev. James G. Anderson, now dean of the College of Science at the University of Portland was a member of the ND science faculty. Another member of the University of Portland staff. Rev. Joseph L. Powers, executive vice president, taught briefly in the 1940's in the AB school. A member of the phi­losophy faculty in the 1940's Rev. Gerald F. McJMahon is now serving as a missionary in East Pakistan. Now at Notre Dame High School for Boys in Niles, HI., Rev. WiUiam 
T. Morrison was a former K of C chaplain and on the admissions staff. Rev. John J. Haley, who is now assistant pastor of Holy Trinity parish in Chicago, was on the faculty of the biology department while his brother Rev. Joseph E. Haley served on the theology faculty and as a rector before assuming duties at the University of Portland. He wUl direct ND's foreign studies program in Salzburg next year. Also a former rector Euid later prefect of discipline Rev. William J. McAuliffe is now serving in the Office of Province Development at Notre Dame. 
Serving in the Notre Dame-South Bend area Eire several members of the anniversary class although only two are currently on the faculty of the University. Rev. Lloyd W. Teske is an associate professor of English and Rev. Raymond F. Cour, Superior of Moreau Seminary, is professor of government and international stud­ies. Formerly active on the Catliolic Boy and now associate director of vocations for the Holy Cross Fathers is Rev. John H. Wilson. Rev. Charles 
R. Callahan is with the Office of Province Development and is Acting Assistant Provincial for the Indiana Province. 
Priests engaged in pastoral duties in South Bend include Rev. Clement 
H. Funke, pastor at Christ the King parish, and Rev. Louis S. Furgal, the assistant pastor at St. Casimir's parish. Serving as assistant pastor at Sacred Heart parish in New Orleans is Rev. Joseph S. Miller and whose pastor is Rev. Thomas F. Peyton. 
Father Peyton's brother, Rev. Patrick Pejrton is director for the Family Rosary Crusade and Family Theater for the Eastern Province. 
Rev. John Foley is now Superior for the Holy Cross Fathers' Mission Band in North Dartmouth, Mass. At the Sacred Heart Novitiate in Jordan, Minn., is Rev. George E. Schidel. Rev. Erwin W. Orkiszewski is now serving as head of the depart­ment of history at the University of Portland. Rev. Thomas Curran and Rev. Joseph M. Doherty are two of the anniversary class who are currently serving in the mission field. Father Curran, of the Eastern Province, is now in Peru while Father Doherty serves in Chile. 
One member of the class wiU not be present at the celebration. Rev. William Ford, of the Notre Dame class of 1933, is no longer living. 
STUDENT ELEaiONS: 

A Sign of the Times 
At first, it ran along as many Student Body President campaigns had run in the past. There were the usual "promises" to do something about curfews, car permissions and the old bugaboo—paternalism. The entire social realm received its share of attacks, also. There were two official candidates who had platforms and who thought student govern-

n:0?SlBE BRIEFS 
To Help Thy Neighbor $5.35 million. Ninety-four projects are in the College Much like the Peace Corps and VISTA, Notre Dame's of Science, 37 in the College of Engineering, 19 under student-organized Council for the International Lay the Graduate School. The College of Arts and Letters Apostolate (CILA) seeks to physically aid the de­operates six projects; the College of Business Ad­
pressed, both here and abroad. But more than that, ministration, six; Center for the Study of Man in those who participate in CILA projects endeavor to Contemporary Society, six; Computing Center, two; communicate as Christian citizens. Now numbering and the Administration, one. 28, the ND CILA group this summer plans six-week 
June Honoraries 
programs in Peru, Mexico, Colombia and Spanish At mid-May, this partial list of well-known dignitaries Harlem. Formed on campus five years ago, CILA to receive honorary doctorates at the University's this year imdertook more than summer projects June 5 commencement was announced; Lady Bar­when it arranged for 10 Colombian students to come bara Ward Jackson, British economist; Juan Car­to Notre Dame from November through January in dinal Landazuri Ricketts, archbishop of Lima, Peru; a student exchange program. CILA volunteers also Rev. I. M. BochensW, rector of the University of Fri-have been conducting recreation and education pro­bourg, Switzerland; Rev. Godfrey Dieclanann OSB, grams for the Spanish-speaking migrant workers in noted liturgist from Collegeville, Minn.; William R. 
South Bend. 
Daley, Cleveland industricdist and member of ND's Board of Lay Trustees; the Hon. Richard P. Rieves, 

Sloan Names Two ND Men 
federal judge from the US Court of Appeals in Mont­Two Notre Dame faculty members are among 90 gomery, Ala.; David E. Bell, director of the Agency young scientists in the US and Canada to receive two-for International Development; Helmut Hatzfeld, pro­year, unrestricted grants for research from the Alfred fessor of romance languages and literature at Catholic P. Sloan Foundation of New York. They are: Dr. 
University; and Julius W. Pratt, visiting professor of Jeremiah P. Freeman '50, associate professor of 
history at Notre Dame. 
chemistry; and Dr. Paul C. DeCelles '50, associate pro­fessor of physics. Freeman, a specialist in organic NASA-Endowed Projects chemistry, will do research on oxidized nitrogen com­
More than $69,000 were received from the National pounds, their preparation, structure and chemical Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) re­properties. DeCelles is currently on leave from Notre cently to support two research projects in chemistry Dame and engaged in elementary particles research in and aero-space engineering at Notre Dame. G. F. 
Geneva, Switzerland. He will return to ND in D'Aleho of the chemistry department received $54,460 September. 
to continue his research on heat-resistant plastics for 
another year. Working on the project since 1963, Omnipresent Byword D'Alelio has discovered a family of plastics capable of More than 170 research or research-related projects withstanding temperatures as high as 2,026 degrees are in progress at Notre Dame, 105 of which are in nitrogen and 1,212 degrees in air. Vincent P. government supported, the remainder being financed Goddard received $15,180 for research on "D-Region by corporations or philanthropic foundations. During Turbulence Studies," to analyze the turbulent condi­the fiscal year ending June 30, 1965, Notre Dame tions encountered by rockets at altitudes above 45 received 137 research awards totaling more than miles. 
ALUMNUS MAY \966 JUNE 
ment could really "do something" if only there were more communi­cation between students and their government, between students and administration. 
It would have remained as sedate as the elections in the past if the final campaign only had been be­tween the oflScial candidates Jim Fish and Rick Dunn. Enter here the "protest" and write-in candi­dates. 
Controversial junior Lenny Joyce entered the race as a write-in, titling his campaign "A Popular Front for Student Rights." Head of the Notre Dame chapter of the liberal Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), Joyce said he would run "in the expression of a popular repulsion of the mediocre 'platforms' of Mr. Fish and Mr. Dunn." The platform offered by Joyce was any­thing but mediocre: "the maximum liberty, responsibility and oppor­tunity for the students and fac­ulty. . . ." He offered the students "17 Theses" including: abolition of the curfew system; liberty to purchase and operate motor vehicles; elimination of the rector system; integrating St. Mary's into Notre Dame; formation of a faculty senate; equal voice of students, faculty and administration in the formulation of University policies; and, ultimately, incorporation of student government as the autonomous, legally registered representative of the "Associated Students of the University of Notre Dame." Other candidates, lumped in the "protest" category, included a fictitious Sam I. (Irish) Green and a musical group, the Shaggs, running as a unit. Sam Green offered a liberal approach surpassed only by that of Joyce. The Green platform included abolition of the Student Senate in favor of the Hall Presi­dents' Council, with a five-member corporate conmiission electing a president and representing the stu­dent body. The five-man commis­sion was the creator of Sam Green. The Shaggs, offering "an orgy of leadership by a pack of Machiavel­lians," vented even wilder, but more entertaining, possibilities. 

When the balloting was over, many breathed easier knowing an "official" candidate had been elected. With more than 44 percent of the votes cast, Jim Fish was elected student body president. In second place. Rick Dunn had managed to collect 24.5 percent. The siuprise, however, came when Lenny Joyce's "Popular Front" amassed more than 20 percent of the total vote—^relying entirely on write-ins. It was a lot like the "issue-less" campciigns that had come before it, but, in many ways, this year's race was a sign of the times and possibly a sign of things to come. 

101 More in the Fold 
Sans the two planned residential halls, campus dormi­tory space wiU be expanded next fall to accommodate 101 more students. The additional space has been found in Dujarie Hall which will be vacated this summer by the Holy Cross Brothers when they move into their new community quarters on the DLxie High­way across from Notre Dame. Tentatively, a sopho­more-junior-senior group, in keeping with the Uni­versity's expanding "Stay-Hall System," will occupy the quarters. The additional room will not mean an enlarged enrollment, but rather, fewer students living off campus. 

A Golden Colossus 
A recent note in The Chicago Tribune announced, under a South Bend dateline, that "on May 31, a colossal statue of the Virgin Mary will be blessed and erected upon the dome of the university." Lest anyone have a doubt or two, the note appeared in the "Histor­ical Scrapbook" column. The story originally was reported April 30, 1866. 


Catalytic Environment 
The academic futures of about 50 South Bend 10th graders are the targets of a new program this sum­mer at Notre Dame. Sponsored by a $72,000 grant from the Office of Economic Opportunity, operation "Upward Bound" wiU offer intelligent, motivated stu­dents from low-income families a six to eight-week residence on campus as an appetizer to college educa­tion. This, hopefully, will urge the students to prove themselves in their final years of high school, and, with federal and private financial aid, lead to eventual enrollment in college. 
Mirage It was a gem for publicity: a riot at Notre Dame. A banner headline in red on the front page of a Las Vegas newpaper declared, "Notre Dame Students 

ALUMNUS MAY 19«« JUNE 

Riot." Wire services carried the story telling how "More than 1,000 Notre Dame students and their dates rioted . . ." Unfortunately, this necessitated a later correction, for what did transpire was quite different. On several occasions in the past, there have been dances in the Stepan Center open to area teen-agers and any students wishing to attend, spon­sored by the student socisd commission. At such a dance on April 23, several fights erupted and the center was closed. The crowd refused to disperse, and fighting continued outside. Eventually units from the sheriff's department, state and city police were sum­moned, with the last officials arriving with two dogs. Authorities generally agree the responsibility for the fracas rested with non-Notre Damers. All such future dances have been canceled. 


Shades of Dow Jones 
Yet another publication was added to the list of stu­dent magazines at Notre Dame when the first edition of the Notre Dame Business Review was published in late May. Father of the magazine. Bill Kane, con­ceived the idea more than a year ago. In contrast to the more widely known business reviews, sudi as Harvard and Chicago, the ND venture is entirely student-written. Only two other universities in the country have business magazines emanating from the student body. 

The Overseas Government 
With Notre Dame extending to Europe academically, it was only a matter of time before student politics reached outward also. This summer, beginning August 2, the Student Organizations Commission of ND's Student Government will sponsor a three-week ex­cursion to Europe. Flying to the continent via Alitalia Airlines, the group will visit England, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, France, Holland and Austria. Further information is available from the Catholic Travel OflBce, Dupont Circle Building, Wash­ington, D.C. 20036. 
The lointer tneetijig of the Alumni Association's Board of Directors ivas most favorably impressed iirith this new national placement program for alumni. The Board advances this additional recommendation— 
that the ivork of the Notre Dame Placement Office would he greatly augmented by a more effective ap­proach to the placement problem by the local ND Alumni ClubSj especially those in larger population areas. The recommendation aims particidarly at the establishment of a cotnmittee or chairman to serve as a chaniiel of information and contact for the Uni­versity Placement Office.—Editor ALUMNUS. 
^fiT^^OW EVERY experienced graduate can put 
-i-^ his quEilifications before employers from coast to coast—with computer speed and at nominal cost" So says Rev. Louis J. Thornton, 
C.S.C. '29, director of the University's Placement Office, who makes no effort to hide his enthusiasm for a new ser­vice his office is making available to 



GRAD 
Notre Dame men. "Not since the advent of the COLLEGE PLACE­MENT ANNUAL almost ten years ago has such a revolutionary concept come upon the college place­ment and recruitment scene," Fr. Thornton continues. "And it is perhaps no surprise that the College Place­ment Council, publisher of the ANNUAL, is repre­senting us in this new, non-profit program." Notre Dame graduates who have gone through the firustrating business of circulating resumes to em­ployers and then awaiting results can appreciate what the new service—known as the GRAD system—can offer. Employers, for their part, will find it eye­opening to be able to search the qualifications of thou­sands of candidates in mere seconds—even "converse" with the electronic file until they get exactly what they want. The 21 major search items available to employ­ers are teamed with a thesaurus of occupational skiUs so extensive that the Council believes it the most so­phisticated mesins of selection yet devised. Key to the dramatic new system is the College Placement Council's role as the corporation placement directors and employers formed a decade ago to assist themselves in doing a better job for the student and alumnus. In the CPC, as it is commonly known, over 1,000 colleges and universities together with more than 2,000 employers of the United States and Canada foster cooperation between campus and company through such projects as the GRAD program. New Times, Better Equipment. Gone for CEindidates under the new service £U-e such problems as how to make their qualifications laiown to a broad spectrum of employers or how to avoid the onerous aind time-consuming business of mailing numerous resumes and then aw£dting results. Employers, for their part, are finding that experienced college graduates may be located with remarkable selectivity, in record time, and at nominal cost That the employer is in New Orleans, the placement office at Notre Dame, and the alumnus in Salt Lake City no longer matters. 
Ill operation, the GRAD system is uncomplicated (the name, by the way, stemming from "Graduate Resume Accumulation and Distribution.") An alumnus interested in finding new emplojTnent communicates directly with the Notre Dame placement office. If Father Thornton and his staff feel that the GRAD program will be of value to the individual in question, the candidate is given an instruction sheet and four-page resume form. The alumnus has the resume com-
the electronic age now provides a revolutionary new concept upon the college placement and recruiting scene for Notre Dame Alumni seeking new job opportunities. 
I 

pleted and neatly typed since it wiU be photocopied in its original form for distribution and sends it to the College Placement Council in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, with a $10 service fee. 
At the data center of the Council, each resume forwarded by an alumnus is analj^ed both in terms of present (or most recent) employment and of previous experience. Twenty-one key factors are extracted from the information and entered into an electronic file at a vast computer center some 60 miles from the Coun­cil offices in Bethldiem, Pa. The original resume is microfilmed to be retrieved almost immediately upon receipt of an employer order. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 


GRAD 
the cooperative new effort bringing multiple opportunities to Notre Dame Alumni seeking new job placement. 
All over the country, employers are beginning to call upon the GRAD system to assist their search for capable executive talent. They have at their disposal the thesaurus of GRAD terms which enables them to establish rapidly the best description of the position open. They may also call upon one or all of the 21 additional "descriptors" to further refine their search. Easy, Immediate Access. Employers using a teletype unit to query the GRAD system have almost imme­diate access to the electronic file, can phrase their own questions, and obtain an equally prompt response. In many respects similar to the electronic systems which enable airline ticket oflices to determine the availability of flight reservations, the GRAD system permits a search to be conducted in seconds. In a typical use, an employer may inquire for applicants on the basis of six or eight selectors—all in English since the system does not require codes. Hardly has his question been completed on the teletype when the machine begins to chatter in response, and he is told, for example, that 83 alumni whose qualifiers are in the system, meet his specifications. This is more than he bargained for, but no matter. The inquiry is restated with more stringent requirements and the number of qualifying applicants now drops to 17. Satisfied, he tjfpes the order to send resumes on the chosen candi­dates. 
Here another sequence of events takes place with remarkable speed. The employer's order is electron­ically relayed to the Council data center where re­sumes corresponding to the chosen individuals are retrieved, dupUcated and speeded on their way to the employer. From this point on, negotiations are tradi­tional with the employer contacting those applicants whose experience, as amphfied by the fuU resume, meets his needs. Before, during, or after the use of the GRAD system, alumni are free to call upon their placement office for counsel. With the previous load upon the placement directors lightened, at least in part, by the GRAD system, it is hoped that even more extensive counselling will now be available for alumni. Certain Qualifications. Use of the GRAD system is not av£dlable to just anyone. Since its designers were aware that misuse of the system for "looking around" or job-hopping would detract from its value to em­ployers, placement directors must endorse each resume and attest to the fact that the applicant has received a four-year degree or higher. The resume remains in the active search file for six months. If the alumnus has received a job while resident in the file he may not return to the GRAD system for a full year. Those deleted from the file at the end of six months are ad­vised as to the number of times their resume has been referred. Especially in instances of alumni who have been resident in the electronic file for six months and have attracted no offers, it would appear desirable 
that they commimicate \vith their placement office, either by mail or in person, for suggestions as to shortcomings which may be affecting their candidacy. 
Alumni whose resumes result in their obtaining employment, shaie with the employer the respon­sibility of removing the individual's appUcation from the active file. The placement director is then in­formed by the College Placement Council of the em­ployment which has resulted. No further charges be­yond the original $10 accrue to either the placement office or the individual. 
The employer may approach the GRAD system either by the installation of teletype equipment or by direct mail. But in either instance he must survive a screening to participate. If the firm or agency is a member of a Regional College Placement Association, it may apply for GRAD service directly to the Col­lege Placement Council. If not, it may serve the same end by obtaining an appUcation form from the Coun­cil and obtaining the endorsement of two placement directors on campuses where it normally recruits. Costs to the employer are nominal. A one-time con­nection charge for teletype users of $10, a $2 charge for each resume ordered, and 50c per minute during the time the computer is actually being searched are the basic costs. Since each job search is expected to require about three minutes, computer costs which, traditionally, have been heavy are now reduced to as Uttle as $1.50. 
Continuing Search. A special feature of the GRAD system makes it possible for employers using tele­type to keep a job search continuEdly in effect if de­sired. Thus, if the selectors chosen by the employer for the search fail to yield sufficient candidates, the question may, without additional charge, be desig­nated as a "save question." When such a question is introduced to the GRAD system it is automatically searched each time a new group of candidates is added to the file. When one of the new candidates meets the "save" specifications, his resume is imme­diately ordered through the data center. The em­ployer may remove the "save question" from the file at any time that his needs have been met. 
Employers not utilizing teletype equipment may conduct their searches through the mails and with the use of a GRAD form which authorizes the Council to make the search in their behalf. Here the em­ployer pays a service charge of $2 for each search (but is spared the $10 connection charge levied against the teletype user). Other charges are the same at 50c per minute of computer time and $2 for each resume ordered. 
ALUMNUS MAY \966 JUNE 

-i-M­

\>M 
Special provisions have been programmed into the GRAD system whereby the applicant's current em­ployer is blocked electronicedly from receiving re­sumes. In a similar precautionary measure, employers may make their electronic search of selector factors in terms of state of residence but not city. Thus the geographical selector does not reveal the present em­ployer accidentally when the applicant is a resident of a "onerindustry" town. Further confidentiality is provided by maintaining only in the CPC data center file the names and addresses of alumni applicants and the identity and addresses of participating employers. All communication with the remote storage file is on an identification number basis, meaningful only to the staff administering the GRAD program. Careful Selection. The key to the effectiveness of the system is one of the most inclusive thesauruses yet to be devised. Because of the College Placement Coun­cil's representation of employers as well as colleges and universities, skills banks developed by major manufacturers and business firms were donated to the Council and combined into a source book of thousands of entries. In practice, each resume wiU be studied first to extract the most inclusive job "descriptor." It will then be further assessed to determine 21 additional selector elements. Major items among these include: state of residence, m2trital status, major fields studied in college and type of degree received, class rsuik by quintUe, present and required Scdary, area of job in­terests, geographic preference, language proficiency, emd several others of lesser importance. Any combina­tion of these may be used by the employer in making 
his search. 

Research data resulting from the operation of the GRAD system will be available to all participating placement oflices. Some of the areas of study being considered are concentrations of employer interest in terms of specific qualifications, supply and demand by various classifications, salary trends, etc. All of these can be computed with ease and maintained on an up-to-date basis. Thus the project not only places opportunities of an unparalleled scope before the alumnus but promises to make his placement oflSce a prime information center for real-time manpower statistics. 
Perhaps equally importsmt, higher education will have available and sensitive to its own needs a man­power tool made possible by the latest developments in electronic data processing. 
ALUMNUS MAY 196« JUNE 
M
ORE than 1,000 alumni from 10 Notre Dame classes will converge on the University June 10, 11 and 12 to enjoy present-day company and surroundings, and to relive the eras of bygone days. 
This year's reunions will be marked by the return of the classes of 1916 and 1941 who will celebrate, respectively, their golden and silver anniversaries. Attending their first five-year reunion will be the Class of 1961; other classes include '21, '26, '31, '36, '46, '51 and '56. 
A new dimension in Notre Dame reunions has been inserted in the traditional three-day program. Begin­ning Thursday morning and concluding a day later, the University's Center for Continuing Education will host the First Annual Alumni Seminar, an academic program designed to cultivate the alumnus' intellectual perspective through continuing education. 
Its topic will be the "Problem of Population," and its scope will be multidisciplinary. Specialists—^both from within and beyond the campus—^will discuss the pressing international issue as it pertains to matters of theology, economics and sociology. (Alumni wish­ing to attend the seminar but who have not indicated their desires should contact immediately Desm Thomas 
P. Bergin, Center for Continuing Education.) 
Saturday morning also ^vill see the inauguration of a program to familiarize ND graduates with the University of today. For an hour in the Center for Continuing Education, faculty members of the four undergraduate colleges—who also are Eilumni of the reuniting classes — will sketch the direction their schools have taken in recent years in matters of ciur­riculum and faculty. Preceding these formal presen­tations. Rev. Joseph B. Simons, the University's dean of students, will provide an overview of the University with particular emphasis on today's ND student. 
Gaiety and merriment will be in evidence through­out a weekend that has been lined with a golf tourna­ment, class pictures, campus tours and a congenial setting for extensive prattle and potation. Class officers and their local-arrangement counterparts long have been at work on the Friday evening class dinner, complete with program and class elections. This year's levy has been set at $25 per almrmus, a fee that will cover all weekend activity expenses ex­cepting the Alumni Seminar. Registration will be held in the lobby of the Center for Continuing Education directly across from the Morris Inn. 
This year, the class officers and the Alumni Asso­ciation reunion conmiittee are making a special re­quest of those returning to campus by car, asking that they park their cars at the entrance of the campus. Trjinsportation to the halls and the baggage handUng will be provided by several shuttle buses leaving from the Center. 
Saturday's schedule wiU find Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC hosting the traditional President's Luncheon for the Silver Anniversay Class (1941) in the Morris Inn. Later in the day, he will join all reunion attendees in the North Dining Hall for evening dinner and a state of the University address. 
Festivities will formally draw to a close on Sunday at 9:45 a.m. with the Alumni Mass in Sacred Heart Church. This year, for the first time, a concelebrated Mass will be offered by all priest-members of reunion classes. 



JUNE 
u ALUMNUS MAY }966 JUNE 
8:00 a.m. 9:30 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. Noon 
6: :30 p.m. 
6: :00 a,m. 
9:00 a.m. 
1:00 a.m. 
7:00 p.m. 
6: :00 a.m. 
THURSDAY 
Registration opens in the Center for Continuing Education for the First Annual Alumni Seminar. Opening session of the First Annual Alumni Seminar. Opening of the annual Monogram Club Golf Outing. Registration opens in the Center for Continuing Eudcation for those Reunion Alumni not attend­ing the Seminar. Monogram Club dinner in the Morris Inn. 
FRIDAY 
Registration for Class Reunions reopens in the Center for Continuing Education and continues until midnight. 
Class Reunion Golf Tournament opens. 
Hourly free bus tours of the campus begin. 
Class dinners and meetings. 
SATURDAY 
Registration for Class Reunions reopens in the Center for Continuing Education, closing at 
5:00 p.m. 
8:30 a.m. 
All Morning 
10:30 a.m. 
Noon 
1:00 p.m. 
4:00 p.m. 
6:00 p.m. 
9:45 p.m. 

 Golf Tournament resiunes.  Class Masses Class pictures on the steps of the Architectuie School.  NOTRE DAME TODAY. An hour-and-a-haU orientation in the Center for Continuing Educa­tion on today's ND student and the academic changes each of the four undergraduate colleges is undergoing. Presented by Alumni faculty of the University. 
President's Luncheon for the 25-Yejir Class (1941) in the Morris Inn.  Hourly free bus tours of the campus begin.  Cocktail hour in the Memorial Library Faculty Lounge for graduates of the AFROTC.  Annual Alumni Banquet for all Reunion Classes with Father Hesburgh as main speaker. North Dining Hall. 

SUNDAY 

 Alumni Mass in Sacred Heart Church con-celebrated by priests from all Reunion Classes. 


CLASS REUNIONS 
ENGAGEMENTS 

ICsj Mar/ Jane Walsh and MICHAEL JOSEPH HYLAND "57. Mia Ann Elizabeth Tnikenbrod and GERARD RODY SCHEIB JR. '60. Miss Moira Anne Mahoney and GERALD MARK GALLIVAN LLB'61. Miss Ann Gallagher and Lt. QUIN A. DENVIR '62. Miss Helen Elizabeth Foley and JOHN MC­NEILL JR. '62. Miss Kathleen Ellen Kane and JOHN PATRICK SULLIVAN JR. '62. Miss Alice Marie Malone and PARLE THOMAS BLAKE '63. Miss Victoria Marie PajalcowsLi and ROGER LYNN MCLAUGHLIN '63. Miss Pamela Ann McCuIloush and JOHN ^^CHAEL ZUSI '63. Miss Maureen Anne McGratty and DAVID R. FRANCESCAXI '64. Miss Elizabeth Ann Erans and Ens. HAROLD GUARNIERI '64. Miss BARB.-UIA McINTYRE MA'6t and Edivard 
L. Ncufer. Afiss Janice Josephine Ferro and DONALD ROBERT WEIDMAN PhD'64. Jfiss Xfaureen Ann Hillary and FRANCIS M. ZIRILLE '64. Jfiss Patricia Ann Devine and RICHARD JOHN MCCARTHY '65. Miss Dorothy Lucille McDermott and STEPHEN FRANCIS SCHNEIDER MA'65. 
Miss Renee Marie Dragoon and STEPHEN C. STUMPFL '65. 
MARRIAGES 

Mrs. Anthony C. DiLulIo and RICHARD N. RILEY '49, Notte Dame, April 16. Miss Maicia Riordan and WILLIAM E. LEON­ARD '50. HuntsviBe, Ala., April 15. Miss Angela Cccile Gates and HUGH VICTOR SCHAEFER '55, Tulsa, April 16. Miss Susan S. Sykes and JOHN P. McilEEL '57, South Miami, Fla., April 16. ifiss Joann Peduzzi and HARRY HEANY ODEM '58, Tralford, Pa., April 16. Miss Elizabeth Flynn and JAMES FRANCIS MULLEN '59, Santa Barijaia, April 21. Miss Marilyn Jean Bendig and TERRY X. LAUGHLIN '60, Chicago, May 14. Miss Marsha Ann Sauerman and THOJL\S T. SHISHMAN '60, Albuquerque, N.M., Feb. 19. Miss Anne Rideout and ROBERT JOHN LORENZ '61, La PSz, Bolivia, April 2. Miss Eileen DeVine and JOHN HUARTE '65, New York, April 16. Miss Maura Kathleen Carrico and GERALD G. KflLKIE '65, Lakeville, Ind., April 16. Miss Gail M. Cancellieri and PATRICK T. NASH '65, Durham, N.C., Feb. 19. Miss Sharon K. Brown and JOHN J. MATESE FhD'66, Notre Dame, April IS. Miss Joan Marie EUis and THOMAS J. WALSH '66, Notre Dame, April 26. 
ALUMNUS MAY }9i6 JUNE 


BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT P. GIORGIO '32, a daughter, Mary Grace, March 3. Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE S. GEISSLER MA'41, a son, March 8. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD D. DcBOER '53, a son, Daniel Dai-id, Feb. 4. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. M.\HOWALD "33, a son, &{arch 23. Mr. and Mrs. LEO LINBECK JR. '56, a son, Patrick Augustine, Nov. I. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. LEADER '57, twin daughters, March 27. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD A. McGEE '59, a son, Patrick Joseph, March 18. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. WH.\LEN '59, a daughter, Kathleen Mary, March 31. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD P. ALLARD '60, a son, Gregory Paul, March 4. Mr. and Mrs. BRIAN REGAN '61, a daughter, Christine Leigh, Feb. 24. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. PUGLIESE '62, a daughter, Grctchen Anne, Feb. 27. Mr. and Mrs. RAFAEL I. .MARINO '63, a daughter, Cecilia, Jan. 31. Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS W. BRENNER '&», a daughter, Theresa Maureen, March 30. Mr. and Mrs. RONALD A. DeLAERE '64, a daughter, April 14. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH G. SANDZA JR. 'M, a daughter. Dawn Marie, March 14. Mr. and Mis. MICHAEL A. BELLOLI '65, a son, Michael Joseph, March 20, 

SYMPATHY 
WILLIAM A. DRAPER '07, on the death of his wife in March. NORBERT ENGELS '26, on the death of his wife, March 10. TONY '27 and EDWARD DEAN '28 on the death of tlicir father, April 16. JACK McCLAREN '29, on the death of his mother, March 25. Dr. EDW.^RD J. ETTL '41 on the death of his father, April 28. THOMAS C. KEEGAN '42, on the death of his daughter, Kfarch 19. ROBERT W. 0'H.ARA '42, on the death of his daughter in March. JOHN '52 and D.AVID ENGELS '54, on the death of their mother, March 10. ORLANDO T. ifAIONE '57, on the death of his mother, Feb. 9. 


DEATHS 
JOHN B. NEWAfAN '91, Elgin, III., May I, 1963. 
WILLIAM W. FITZPATRICK '98, Paris, Texas, May 10, 1962. A ph>3ician, he was active and pcr­fotming operations until ten days before hb death at the age of 86. Surv-tvon at the time of his death included his undow, a son and a daughter. 
HARRY G. HOGAN LLB'M LLD'51, Fort 

Wayne, Ind., April 1, in an automobile accident 
in which his wife was also injured. A prominent 
lawyer and banker, he was a member of the Alumni 
Association Board of Directon and founder of the 
Notre Dame Foundation. 
DANIEL J. O'CONNOR '05, Chicago, HI.. April 16. A former president of the ND Alumni Association and the ND Club of Chicago, he was a retired real estate broker. Survivon include his widow, two sons and six dai^hters—three of whom are nuns. 
WILLIAM D. O'SHEA M3 of Fort Smith, Ark., 
March 24. Survivors include his widow. 
ALFRED H. RICKER M5, St. Louis, Mo., died 
in 1965. 
HOLLIS E. KING LLB'16, Sherman Oaks, 
Calif., April 12, 1965. He is survived by his widow 
and son. 
JAMES F. ODEM LLBM6, Sinton Texas, July 1, 
1964 
J. STANLEY BRADBURY LLB'23, Robinson, III., May 2. Scr\'ing his sixth term as State's .Attorney for Crawford County at the time of his death, he was also active in youth work in the state. He is survived by his widow, a sister, and his brother Wlliam E. *I6. 
JEROME F. FOX *24, Chilton, Wis. Survivors include his widow. 
RUSSELL H. ARNDT LLB*25 of Mishawaka, Ind., March 25 after a long illness. A high school teacher and former football and tennis coach, he is survived by his widow and a daughter. 
HARRY A. McGUIRE '25, Santa Barbara, CaKf., Feb. 1. 
HAROLD JOSEPH ROBERTSON LLB'26. 
WILLIAM J. ENDRESS '27 DDS, Evansville, 
Ind,, in February. Survivors include his widow. DONALD W. RYAN '27, Kansas City. Mo.. March 20. A branch supervisor for the Universal 
G.I.T. Credit Corp., he is survi\-ed by his widow and a daughter—Sr. Marian RSM. 
VINCENT F. CAREY '28, Yakima, Waih., ^ta^ch 20. He is survived by his widow and two sons including Kevin '65. 
JOHN J. WINGERTER '28, Spring Lake, N.J., March 9. Corporate business manager for Time, Inc., he is survived by his widow. 
STEPHEN J. GREEN '30, Chicago, HI., April 2. 
GEORGE F. KAVANAUGH 'SI, Mansfield, Ohio, Jan. 15. Associated with the Protective Credit S>-stem, he is sur\*ived by his widow and one son. 
HUGH E. BALL '32, Lakewood, Ohio, April 18. He is survived by his widow and three sons in­cluding HUGH JR '58. 
JOHN A. PERONE '32, April U. He had returned to Buffalo, N.Y. from California some­time last fall. He is survived by his widow, a son and a daughter. 
PHILIP A. RILEY '33, Ste. Genevieve, Mo.. 
April 27. 
MAURICE E. WEIGAND '33, Do\-er, Ohio, Nov. 28. 
LEO CROWE (Class of '34 & AB'42), Newport, R.L, April 24. A football and basketball coach until his heart attack in 1960, he was a teacher 
MILTNER and HOGAN: 
Rev. Charles C. Miltner CSC 'II, former head of the department of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame and former president of the University of Portland, passed away April 13, just four days after observing his 80th birthday. His death, while bringing sorrow into the lives of many ND men with whom he associated gives cause to recall memories of one of the most prominent educators of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. University Archi­vist Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy CSC here tells of Fr. Miltner's work, perhaps that most familiar to ND Alumni. Editor. 
TO MOST Of the Alumni, Father ' Charles IMiltner is remembered as the dean of the College of Arts and Letters. His appointment was one of the most important changes in the University. 
The major problem facing the new dean arose from the fact that the traditional liberal arts program was a classical program concentrating on Latin and Greek; but the only stu­dents who could qualify then for the traditional bachelor of arts degree were some seminarians and a few lay students who had undergone the old classical program in high school and could continue that program in college. (To care for the majority of the students of the College of Arts and Letters, the University had drawn up substitute programs lead­ing to bachelor's degrees of letters, philosophy, philosophy in journalism, history in education, music and library science.) In addition to a written thesis, there also was a tottil of 167 semester hours of credit required in each of the programs for the degree; and there were few electives. 
Father Miltner with the consent of his faculty estabhshed one AB degree, offering majors either in one of the eight departments or those three schools that remained: Fine Arts, Education and Journalism. 
Further, he reduced the number of semester credits to 128. Most of the classes that had been taught four or five times a week were changed to three class hours, and the number of electives was greatly increased. 
To those who impatiently held out for the old classical Uberal arts degree. Father Miltner's program was a gross betrayal. But for the majority of the students of the Col­lege of Liberal Arts, his program was one of great common sense. 
A few remnants from the old program remained. There were no electives in the first two years, and the student having a foundation in a language — ancient or modem — was expected to continue that language in college. This was an unwelcome handicap for students who had followed the old classical course in high school because the dean insisted that they continue Latin in their college programs. 
The effects of the new dean's re­form were too manifold to be listed here. The first was the rise of phi­losophy—especially under the head­ship of Father Miltner—one of the most respected programs in the Col­lege. Soon, the English major pro­gram became the curriculum for the literary students. Few besides the seminarians remained in the old classical program of Latin and Greek. EX'entuaUy, the departments of sociology, history and economics began to have their own majors; modern languages had a more difii­cult time attracting majors in the student body of the 1920's and 1930's. Patiently, the dean inter­viewed each student and directed him on the choice of his classes. A new administrator had arrived at Notre Dame. 
His efforts brought about a vastly improved, intensified teaching in the departmental fields. The depart­ments were better organized and developed distinctive qualities. An­other result which might be at­tributed to the dean himself was the development in the College of a philosophy of liberal education, fostered chiefly in his lectures and in discussions in the meetings of the college faculty. 
The College of Arts and Letters of today still bears the impression of the reform of Father Charles C. Miltner. 
— Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy CSC 

from 1949 until his death. Sur\'ivors include his \vidow, a son In the scminaty' and a daughter. 
STEWART P. OSBORN '34, Houston, Texas, April 6. Vice-president and comptroller oE Texas Eastern Transmission Corp., he is sur\'ived by lib uidou* and a son. 
SR. M. VERO.XA WALSH CSC XIA'34, St. Patrick's School, Danville, lU., March 25. 
VITTORIO G. ARCADI '33 MD, San Bernar­dino, Calif., March 4. Senior psychiatrist at Patton State Hospital in San Bernardino, he Is surv*ivcd by his widou', a son and two daughters. 
JOHN G. -MCCARTHY J R '37, fonner football player and member of the Monogram Club from Chicago, April 16. A partner of the John XfcCarthy grain brokerage firm, he Is sur\-Ived by his tvidovv, a son and a daughter. 
JOH.\ F. McKENNA '37, Boonton, X.J., Xfarch 

23. Captain of the XD track team and a high school track, basketball and baseball coach, he was physical education super\-Isor for the Parslppany-Troy Hills Township school system. Sur^^vors in­clude his widow and a son. 
JOHN E. MURPHY LLB'38, Clinton, Iowa, Nov. 28. A practicing attorney In Clinton since graduation, he Is survived by his widow, three sons and a daughter. 
GEORGE M. EICHLER LLB '40, South Bend, Ind., April 27. Active In St. Joseph County (Ind.) politics, he ser\-ed as GOP county chairman; was a former judge of the St. Joseph Circuit Court; was president of the St. Joseph County Bar Association In 1955-56. He is surxnved by his widow, stepson and sister. 
CHRISTOPHER J. QUINN '40, .Mlentown, Pa., In March. He was employed in the commercial department of the Lehigh Valley Trust Co., Fair Grounds Branch In Allentown. He is sur\'ivcd by his widow and a son. 
PATRICK J. MULLIGAN JR. '41, .\asln-illc, Tcnn., April 9, In an automobile accident outside of Nashville. Director and executive vice-president of Murray Ohio Mfg. Co., he Is sur\*ived by his widow and six children including Ed, a freshman at ND. 
THO.MAS W. TEARNEY '42 of LaGrangc, III., March 23. An attorney and former instructor in maritime law at John Marsliall Law School, he Is survived by his widow, two sons and a daughter. 
PHILIP A. COSTELLO '47, Monroe, Michigan, died Marcli 26. His father was the late JOHN W. '12 and his two brothers were JOHN W. here in '41 and DONALD J. '56. He is also survived by his widow and six children. 
JOHN C. KALAPOS '48 Levittown, Pa., Jan. 30. 
}6 ALUMNUS MAY 1964 JUNE 
architects of today's ND 
Harry G. Hogan '04, one of the Uni­versity's most ardent supporters and finest friends, was killed April 5 in an auto accident in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 84. He long will be remembered by the Notre Dame family as twice national president of the Alumni Association and founder of the University's Foundation in 1947—a depart­ment which has since received more than $92 million in gifts and grants. Following is the story, of that man and his university. Editor. 
HE University's history is sprinkled with outstanding men created for outstanding moments. 
The great doors of opportunity that opened on American campuses in the wake of World War n might have caught Notre Dame and the Alumni Association unprepared for this unprecedented challenge to higher education had it not been for such men. 
In 1947, Harry Hogan was serving his second term as national NT) 
SISTER JURY OF THE PRECIOUS BLOOD LAVALLEY AB'50, St. Mary's Training School, D M Plaines, III. 
BRO. GEORGE A. LEVERMAN CSC '36. March 20. He was head of the science department at St. Anthony Boys' High School in Long Beach. Calif., and fiilltllcd a three-year term as prefect of discipline. He was director of the National Youth Corps on campus. Burial was in the community cemetery at St. Edward's U. 
LELAND V. STANFORD, a non-alumni member of the University's Science and Engineering Ad­visory Council, died May 1 in Forest Hills, N.Y. He is 5ur\-ived by his widow, Matilda, of 68-10 108th Street, Forest Hills. 

FACULTY AND STAFF DEATHS 
HERBERT J. BOTT, profes­sor-emeritus of the College of Business Administration, died unexpectedly April 27 at the age of 68. He retired in 1960 after teaching at the University for 36 years. An tmdcrgraduate from the University of LaCrosse and a recipient of a master's 
degree at the University of Wisconsin, Prof. Bott was a past president of the Notre Dame Faculty and served as a judge at ND track events. He is survived by his wife, Blanche, a son and four daughters. 
REV. ROBERT J. WAIDE CSC '33, a former mission worker at the University, died April 11 at the age of 60 at his St. Francis High School resi­dence. Mountain View, Calif. Father Waidc conducted mission and retreat work at the Notre Dame Retreat House from 1952 
to 1955 and, again, from 1939 to 1960. He is survived by a brother and a sister. 
REV. HUGH B. MacC.\ULEY CSC '06 died April 13 at Holy Cross House on the campus at the age of 85. Ordained in 1912, Father MacCauley served as a seminar>' instructor at Notre Dame; at Holy Cross College in New Orleans; and at the uni­versity of Portland. At one time 
he was also a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band. Prior to his retirement on campus, he was a pastor in Walkerton (Ind.) and also served in Bremen (Ind.). 
Alumni Association president. Prior to then and following his 1917-18 office, he had become a successful lawyer, businessman and politiceJ leader of national stature. His com­petence and maturity proved to be an invaluable contribution to ND. 
With the cooperation of a Uni­versity facing formidable but new demands on its resources — jind sometimes overriding the conserva­tive tendencies of the academic tradi­tions of a century—^Harry Hogan created the ND Foundation. 
None of those involved — and especially Hogan — would say that ND's great growth came solely from the Foundation. But in justice, and in history, this farsighted provision for a foreseen crisis of resources created a climate and a mechanism within which ND has achieved vital, expanding and award-winning sup­port, far in front of many of its less-prepared contemporaries. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
WALTER L CLEMENTS '14 
Tower BIdg., 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
ALBERT A. KUHLE '15 
117 Sunsef Ave., 
LaGrange, III. 60525 
In the ifarch-April issue of the ALUMNUS, I mentioned tliat I had been appointed our Class Agent for the xVnnual Alumni Fund. A complete list of the appointees for all classes also appears in that same issue. It is suggested that all Alumni read carefully the article (pg. 16) on the neu* structure of the Fund. 
The first meeting of Class Agents was held at the University on Feb. 26. I was pleased to be among the 42 of a possible 57 agents who attended the meeting. It u'as a vcr>- informative meeting and engendered much enthusiasm among those present. The tremendous growtli and development of the University in the past decade is indeed inspiringj therefore, Alumni support is a more important factor than-ever-beforc. In this connection, Class Agents will be contacting the members of their respective classes to the end that the percentage of Class giving and the total amount of the Fund will be substantially in­creased. The percentage of Class gi\*ing is ver^* important. While some of the rearons for this statement arc self-evident, more will be said in a subsequent communication. 
Please note the following change of address: Rev. JOH.V ^fARGR/\F CSC from St. Judc's Parish, South Bend, Ind. to Holy Cross House, Notre Dame, Ind. 46536. 
As you ^vell know, the success of a Class secretary depends in large measure upon the cooperation he receives from fellow alumni. Your classmates will be interested in your %vhcreabouts and of personal items about you. Of definite interest ^VQuld be: whether >-ou arc still ^vorking or retired—or—special happenings and experiences such as hobbies, trips taken, and information about family, children and grandchildren. We are most anxious to learn of change of address. If you are not regularly receiving each issue of the ALUstNUS it is, no doubt, due to a faulty ad­dress. Surely every member of the Class of 1913 wants to receive the ALUMNUS and keep posted on the University's growth and develop­ment. —ALBERT KUHLE, Secretary 

There is a headstone for Harry Hogan. But his real monument will be the significant skyline of the University, and the record of the Foundation which has made ND the bridge and the beacon of our search­ing society. His goal was the con­tinuation of a campus and a quality that could produce great men for great moments. His example was the greatest contribution to his goal. R.I.P. 
— James E. Armstrong 

From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT "PETE" VAUGHAN '12 of Craw­fords\iIle, Ind. was inducted into the Indiana Basketball Hall of Fame in ^larcfa. Pete won four letters in four major sports in high school and while at ND, 1908-1910, he was an All-American football pbyer. He was head basket­ball coach at Purd:ie in 1912 and later, while at Wabash College, had two teams known as the "wonder fives." 
1916 
GROVER F. MILLER 220 9fh St., Racine, Wis. 53403 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n •12 1917 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, I 1.60121 
The January-February ALUMNUS solicitation has produced at least a couple of responses in the way of ncu*s from *17crs. 
D.AN HILGARTNER reports that answers to questions on the stub of the "request" card arc "no" to all except "retired" and ''travel.** Writes Danny, *'I am tired and retired, but can be re\'ivcd on occasion with a brandy and soda; and, as for travel, we are thinking; and talking about a trip to Ireland before it is too late. Any '17ers in the mood for such a trip to the tight little isle, or is that England?" 
Any takers? 

BILL GR.-\DY from Carrollton, Tex. reports that he upccts to be at Notre Dame for the reunion **tliis year.** (Bill, did you belong to the Class of *16 or *17?) He writes, "We have a great excuse for the trip, having a daughter whose husband, DAN O'BRIEN, is with Bache and Co. in South Bend; also, not the least, four grandchildren—t^vo boj-s and two girls.** Under the circumstances, ma^-be every year is ''reunion" year for Bill. Wouldn't blame him if such were the case. 
Keep the news coming, boys. Maybe, wie*Il find something besides the name of your Class secretary in the *17 column now and then. 
—EDWARD J. McOSKER, Secretary 

1918 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, III. 60647 
Another note urging you to remember an old classmate with whom you may have once shared "buns**—or—oblong shape "pie**—or—the "whale** in the dining hall of the Miun Building. Periiaps you were the "Head" of one table. Remember? Why not send a birthday card? You know that 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
it would be appredated. NORBERT G. MON­NING (June 12) Star Route, CarrabcIIe, Fla. 32322; Dr. EDWARD REYNOLDS (June 13) 497 Highland Ave., Maiden, Mass. 0214S; LAM­BERT Q. SENG (June 16) 6508 Glenwood Ave., Chicago, 111. 60625; ALBERT O'SULLIVAN (Jnne 29) 513 Warren Ave., Bclvidere, HL 61008; JOHN V. RILEY »17 (July 3) Hidden Acres, Fogs Point, Freeport, Maine {H032: CHARLES C. CONNOLLY '19 (July 9) 23+7 Applcgate Aw.. Klamath Falls, Ore. 97601; Rev. CHARLES 
J. WILLIAMS (July 12) 311 E. Grove Ave., St. Malachy Rector>-, Rantoul, III. 61866; THOMAS L. MOORE (July 14) Box 2417, Tulsa, OUa.; GEORGE L. CAVAXESS '19 (Julv 29) 428 E. Mth St., Tulsa, Gila. 74120; JAMES G. WAL­LACE (July 29) 1132 Bcllc\-uc Ave, Syracuse, 
N.Y. 13204; ALVIN "HEIXIE" BERGER M5 (Aug. 8) R.R. No. 2, Stur^is, Mich. 49091; JAJkfES F. HANLON (Aug. 15) 1551 St. Paul St., Denver, Colo. 80206; THOMAS D. MOTT JR. (Aug. 22) 511 W. Summer A\-e., Spokane, Wash. 992M; and JOHN L. REUSS (Aug. 27) 909 Orlando Dr., Ft. Wa>-ne, Ind. 
Father CHARLES WILLIAMS managed to get a break and enjoy a short Florida \'acation. missing some of the real cold Rantoul, HI., weather. Sorry that Father could not have stayed a month or so longer to make up for missing out last year. 
Sure pleased to hear from **Young Dutch." Perhaps, uc should address Mr. ARTHUR J. BERGMAN *17 more correcdy as the managing director of the District of Columbia Stadium and the National Guard Armory in Washington, D.C. Art*s brother *s-as my Corby Hall Subway room­mate, "OLD DUTCH," whom we believe to be the only four-sport monogram man; a total of twelve monograms In football, track, baseball and basketball. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25, Alumni Assoda­tion secretary, heard from JIM SWEENEY *18 that JIM HANLON '18 had moved to a rest home at 1551 St. Paul St., Denver, Colo. 80206. As no other "guy" can, Armstrong wrote Hanlon a most interesting and sincere letter which, no doubt, was grtady appreciated by Jim. Sweeney reports, "Hanlon seems happy and has lots of company. He can hear Mass e\-ery day. It would please him \'cry much to hear from vou." 
Attorney GEORGE E. HARBERT ' '18 wTotc that he has sold the Rock Island County Abstract & Title Guaranty Co. of which he was president. He now has a law oHice for general practice but still remains chairman of the board of the abstract company. I'll bet there's where the "dough" is. George and his ifargarct plan on taking more extended tours. 
NORBERT G. MONNING '18 wrote ". . . you might also look up the ifichigan Ave. night parade pictures after ND beat Anny 7-2 (pg. 188, DOME-1918). Our quarterback. Brandy, weighed only 145 lbs. I made those signs in the rear of Hully and Mike's Cigar Store. A simibr sign was made and used by Holl>-wood in the picture of ROCKXE." Monning was mailed a package of pictures. I hope he got 'em. I ^^•UI pass 'em around when thcv are returned. 
FR.ANK M. KIRKLAND '17, who also was mailed the pictures, wrote, "It was surely nit^ of ^tju to give me the pleasure of looking at my old friends. It is also pleasing to know they all look well fed. Do you remember our old two-mller JOHNNIE RE'V'NOLDS? He is now a Trapplst Monk Out in tlie country* about 20 miles firom Portland. They arc not much for visitors but I sec him several times a year." 
CHARLIE CALL is enjo>-ing ^Vintcr Haven, Fla. However, he stlJl is "popping up" here and there proving that Charlie and Mrs. are cnjo>-ing good health. 
Wish we had Texas BILL GR-^Y's ND year and birthday. Here's one grand *'guy" who you may be sure will return to the ND Cmipus come June. 
Phoned JOHN VOELKERS who reports enjoy­ing good health and who recently raited ND and the Morris Inn. "BIG" FRANK X. RYDZEWSKI is busy counting his money in his real estate office while enjojing good health. Big Frank also heard from '"Young Dutch." LAMBERT Q. SENG is stiU interested in CYO fights. I'm sorry 1 could not be his guest. We still have not got aroimd to haWng lunch with Ex-Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DDCON. Believe It would prove to be a real good "bull session." 
MORRIE STARRETT writes, ". . . am send­ing JIM ARMSTRONG my famous yellow­diamois gloves I wore when we had Fairbanks and I^ckford as our bench guests for the first half of the 1925 Rose Bowl game and when Walter Camp picked mc for All-American water 
16 
boy for services bc>*ond duties during second half, etc." 
Mice and ALVIN "HEINIE" BERGER '15, as usual, have headed for Rio Grande Valley in Texas. They may return \'ia Florida. Hope he gets to see CilARLIE BACH>L\N '17. What a "bull session" if we three Corby Hall Subwa)-itcs could get together. Hope that "guy," MAX KAZUS, remembered to either send a card or phone Rt. Rev. Msgr. F. MONIGHAN on his birthday. May 24. 
Sure wish that you "Ole Timers" would write and tell Jim Armstrong of any Class news rel­ative to the stunts you were guilty of "pulling off" while on the campus. Someone of you must have been surprised by a pint of ice cream tossed through your transom window. 
Remember our GOLDEN JUBILEE is coming up in 1968. See you then! May you live to be a hundred. —GEORGE WA.\GE, Secretary­
1919 
THEODORE C. RADEMAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN 170 May brook Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14618 
1921 
DAN W. DUFFY 1030 Nofl. City E. 6th BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 
Dear Dan: 
Hope to attend our 45th Reunion. Will contact LARRY "Red" MORG.AN, W'M. "Bill" ALLEN and NORRIS "Judge" BARRY. Somebody with Influence should put the pressure on CHARLES "Jack" MOONEY of Memphis. 
I have two bo>-s, both teachers: George—ND Commerce '49, Northwestern JD Law '52, Chicago MBA '56, and now teaching U. of Missouri, St. Louis Branch. Peter—West Point '54 (Arty), Virginia MA in Political Science *64, Leaven­worth's Staff and General Command School '65, and, presently, a major assigned to the US Air Force .Academv. 
GEORGE C. WITTERIED 
362 Jones Ave. X.W. Atlanta, Ga. 30313 Dear Dan: 
I was very happy to receive your letter of February 16. Of course, I plan to be back to Notre Dame for homecoming. As I look back, 45 years Is a long time. It will be wonderful to see some of the old timers. I hope that I sliall be able to recognize some of the bald-headed, potbellied personalities of the Class of '21. 
Looking forward to seeing you. With my best to all. Cordially vo'^rs. —A. R. ABRAMS 
800 North Main St. Santa Ana, Calif. Dear Dan: 
Yes, I have been sorely remiss in the com­munication sphere for tons of time. But, being overtly candid, you have been in ray thoughts repeatedly. I'll never forget the sobriquet of "Wild Horse Dan" that we pinned on ytju back in the "cariwniferous days." No, I am NOT taxing my memory. 
See PAUL PFOHL intermittently; also, CHARLIE "Kid" CROWLEY of Boston's crested gentry*. The reminiscing must be mtUow-plus when you fellou-5 gather on the banks of the St. Joe. Kindly rday lusty and cordial greetings when you convene again. Imagine that Brandy fellow con­tinues to banter with gusto. 
This rambling compilation finds me still aware of "the tingling of the arteries" on this Sunkist Golden Strand beyond the High Sierras. 
As the stock being utilized implies, I am in the customer-ingratiating sphere \vith this grand organization. 
Before I exit, I must commend you for your unwearied industry in keeping our fos»lIzed group in the ALUMNUS. 
—M. J. "CLIPPER" SMITH 
2758 So. Columbia Pbce 
Tulsa, Okla. 
Dear Dan: 
Gbd to have your note of February 16, regard­
ing the 45th Annual Class Reunion. I am planning 
to attend. Since you have put my name on the 
committee list, please let me know what I can do 
to help. It Is true that I was ofiidally retired 
Sept. 1, 1964, but I have been working part time, 
both for Warren-Gulf and for other oil companies. 
I am trj-Ing to taper off on these assignments, 
but Mall still be doing quite a bit of work, at 
least for the rest of the year. 
—B. R. CARNEY 

In addition to the above replies, I have heard from Tl. J. SCHUBMEHL, WALTER A. RICE and HAROLD S. FOLEY who have indicated they will attend the June 10, 11 and 12 Re­union. Regards and regrets have been received from PAUL BERGER, THOMAS "C>-" KASPER. JAMES F. GLOVER, GEORGE L. OTT, MCHAEL N. SCmVARZ, C. J. HARBEKE and 
A. L. BRYCE who are unable to make it to ND 
that weekend. —DAN W. DUFFY, Secretary 
1922 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
Another wonderful classmate has gone to his reu*ard. On Feb. 21, the summons came to EDWARD H. PFEIFFER in his native cit>- of Louisville, Ky. Eddie, a graduate of the College of Commerce, had been affiliated with his cousin CORNELIUS J. PFEIFFER '23 in the insurance business on the Louis\-iIIe scene ever since gradu­ation. Eddie was a prime fa\'orite with his class­mates due to his mellow disposition and friendly wa^-s. He was a tennis player of real ability, having been captain of the ND tennis team, and later winning the Kentucky State Championships. The Louisville Courier sports editor recently named him the all-time number one tennis player in Kentucky history. We extend loving sympathy to Mrs. Pfeiffer and the family, and ask that you remember the deceased in your prayers. The Pfeiffer address is 2509 Valley Vista Road, Louis­wlle, Ky. 40205. 
A most welcome letter \vas received from Mrs. 

AARON HUGUENARD of 1922 Portage Ave., 
South Bend 46616. Ruby gives us a family 
progress report, and indicates many family changes 
since the death of our beloved classmate, Aaron. 
The oldest son, named after his father, has eight 
children; the oldest, a girl of 13 years, and seven 
little boj-s. Aaron (Jr.) Is with IBM. Ruby's 
daughter, Anne, is teaching in DeKalb, III. She 
enters Georgetown next year to work for a 
doctorate in French. Jane b married and has a 
three-year-old. Ruby was on a three-month 
Mediterranean cruise a year ago, visiting the 
French Riviera, Spain, Portugal, and Italy. The 
grand climax was spending Easter in Rome. 
FRANTC BLOEMER JR., who seems to divide his time between Louis\'illc, Ky. and Aripeka. Fla., underwent a gall-bladder operation in Louis­ville last January. Thank the Lord, Frank made a fine recovery. We hope he suffered no damage when the tornado recently struck the Tampa area. 
LAWRENCE "BUCK" SHAW has given up retirement and has returned to football in which he coached so successfully in colleges and, later, with topflight professional teams. But this time. Buck is not in the coaching end of football. His new connection with the National Football League Is that of material assaycr for the Central Eastern Personnel Organization. He will cover six states in the Southwest in a search for able manpower. 
HEARTLEY "HUNK" ANDERSON of Glen-view, m., and CHARLIE "RED" CROWLEY of Weston, Afass., teamed up for a lot of golfing at West Plam Beach, Fb. in the first quarter of the year. They reported occasional scores in the "O's^not bad for "crack" football linemen of the 1918-1921 era. Their wrlves, too, greatly enjoyed themselves in non-golfing activities. 
In mid-April the D.AN YOUNGs of Drcxcl Hni, Pa., completed a trip around the world. In the eariy stages the trip u-as a sea voyage across 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
'the Pacific: to New. Zealand and Australia. En­route-they had an unscheduled detour that meant coming Eiack from the Pacific waters, through the Panama Canal again and into a Naval Base dry dock at Salina Cruz, Mexico—all because of propeller troubles. After an extended stay in dr>' dock, they made their third trip through the Canal and across the Pacific. They greatly enjoyed New Zealand's fjords, the Australian cities and the Great Barrier Reef. The remainder of the journey was by plane to Singapore, Bangkok, Rangoon, various places in India, the Holy Land, Athens, Rome for Holy Week, and across the Atlantic to the home base. 
'22 BREVITIES 
DANIEL SEXTON JR. is a freshman at ^D. 
Mrs. GEORGE HENEGHAN, widow of our beloved classmate did Red Cross work for tornado victims in the South Bend area in April '63, and in Sept. '65 she was helping the New Orleans Red Cross %vith problems and work generated by hurricane "Betsy." Phyllis's son, Jim, is still very busy with his germ-free animals at the Medical College of Louisiana State University. His official title is assistant professor of surgery. 
Doctor MATT WEIS moved to his country* cliateau on Mar. 18. He threatens wood-chopping, hoeing, grass-cutting, etc. to get in fine physical irini for our 45lh-Ycar Class Reunion in 1967. 
—G. "KID" ASHE, Secretary 
1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
1924 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
1925 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, Ohio 43606 
It is Easter Sunday and the April 15lh deadline for our &fay-June issue is fast approaching. The great percentage of "neu-s" is the deaths of our classmates. Let's hear from "the lively ones" . . . about yoar job or your retirement plans. 
Two more of our pals have passed on. SEBASTL^N J. MILLER died Feb. 18. He %v-as the father of ROBERT J. HflLLER '65. Also, the Alumni Office just sent word of the death of RUSSELL H. ARNDT LLB who died Mar. 25. Have no details but believe Russ's death came after a prolonged illness. Our deepest sympathy to their widows and families. Their addresses are: Mrs. S. J. Miller, 3907 Park Ave.. In­dianapolis, Ind.; and &frs. R. H. Amdt, 327 Miami Club Drive, Misha\%-aka, Ind. Remember to put Sebastian and Russell on your deceased prayer card list. If you have lost yours, drop me a note as u* still have some. And besides, we might get a bit of news this way. 

Had, finally, some pleasant news for a change. It is now April 17 and yo^r secretary and his wife were with the GEORGE E. LUDWIGs celebrating the christening of their grandson, John Peter Hay­ward, son of JOHN HAYWARD '60. Gcorgc*s daughter, Mary Beth, graduated from St. Mary's College in '61. Gcoi^c looks great and is a big wheel at Muskegon Gas Co. in Muskegon, Mich. 
—JOHN P. HURLEY, Secretary 
1926 

FRANK A. DEITLE 1763 Kessler Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46616 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n '12 

Plans for a bang-up Reunion are well underway and by June 10 a real welcome will be awaiting all of you that can get back to the campus, by foot or horseback. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
RUDY GOEPFRICH has sent letters to all 
his generak — east, west, north and south — 
enlisting their aid in urging all to attend. Early 
samplings indicate there will be a big turnout. 
Just recently, Rudy has visited FOREST 
SWARTZ in Akron, MATT NOLAN in Pontiac 
and GAIL GURNETT in Peru, 111. All intend 
to be back. 
JOHN PROBST was in town from Wyandotte, 
Mich, for the funeral of his brother. Dr. 
Edmund Probst. Also on the sad side, ROGER 
NOLAN's son, ROGER JR., a patent attorney 
for Benduc-Pioncer-Central in Davenport, stopped 
at Rudy's office in South Bend and revealed that 
his mother had died late last year. Roger Jr. is 
a 1956 graduate of Notre Dame. 
A card horn Dr. BERT COUGHLIN from 
St. Louis discloses that he will be on hand in 
June. 
Sec you all in June, the Good Lord Willing. 
—FRANK A. DEITLE, Sccretan* 
1927 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River Sf., Aurora, III. 60504 
Of late there has been much discussion about 
"new frontiers," politically and geographically. 
Recently, all members of our Class must have 
crossed another kind of new frontier. We all have 
entered our 60's—and I don't mean the 1960's 
which began more than five years ago. In the 
golden days of 1927 the age of 60 seemed a com­
fortable distance away. The parents of most of 
us had not even attained that age, and it was not 
easy to visualize ourselves as they appeared at that 
lime. We comfortably recognized that they were 
always standing behind us—proud, helpful and 
dependable. For most of us our parents are now 
gone. We have gradually taken their place. 
Whether we are as dependable or helpful as they 
were is not for tis to judge. The fact Is that most 
of us have already seen our children—or at least 
some of them—complete the education we had. 
Again, we are looking ahead even to the genera­
tion beyond our children's. We have, or are about 
to have, grandchildren and we look forward 
wistfully to the day when they, too, will enjoy the 
benefits of Notre Dame, or St. Afary's, or some 
other university. We realize that this day probably 
will not be ours to see, but we can, nevertheless, 
entertain the hope that it will come to pass. 
A few months ago the Ai.Uu.NUS contained an insert requesting Alumni to pass along net^ to their respective secretaries. This notice brought results. I have since heard from several classmates. JACK REIDY of Cleveland reporU that he has been asked to act as Class deferred-gi\ing agent. The Foundation would like Alumni to be encour­aged to remember ND in their wills. This is a laudable suggestion. Much of the success that we have achieved is, undoubtedly, due to the education we received, and great credit must be given to the University for this. It is only fair to return, at least in some small measure, what has been given to us. 
Jack, also, calls attention to JOE BREIG, and sent me several clippings of his column. We, of course, have another very prominent journalist in our Class In the person of RED SMITH^ He has already been acclaimed as one of the most literate and versatile sjwrts u-riters. We are all proud of him. We arc equally as proud of Joe Breig. He is in a different field of journalism, but, also, highly respected. He has published six or seven books and has a syndicated column In the Ave Maria magazine and in a score or more of diocesan news­papers. He has lived in Cleveland for many years and has a fine family, including one daughter who is a nun. 
In the most recent Issue of the ALUMNUS I mentioned that BOB SHIELDS has been ill. I wrote to Bob and have now- received a newsy letter from his wife, Helen. She has been very 111 herself, so Bob had to be moved temporarily to a nursing home. He would like to hear from his friends. His address b 28 Lexington Dr., Living­ston, N.J. The Shicldses have a daughter who is a sophomore at Douglass College in New Jersey. 
ERAHN E. REICHERT, Long Prairie, Minn., writes that he is looking forward to his return to campus for the 1967 Reunion. Ermin represents an advertising specialty firm and covers a fourth ot the slate. He occasionally sees JOE DUNN at Brainerd in his travels. Joe is postmaster of his city. 
I have received a list of current addresses for Class members. You will receive notices in due course concerning the 1967 Reunion. Do your best to attend. —CLARENCE J. RUDDY, Secretary 

1928 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 68-10 108th St., Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375 
JACK WINGERTER cGed on Mar. 10 of a masnve blood clot in New York Gty wbere he was corporate business manager of Timt, Inc. LOU CARR advised me that he had seen the foOow­ing classmates at Jack's funeral: RUSS RILEY, HERB McCABE, JOHN WINBERRY and ROG BRESLIN. Jack is survived by his wife who is a sister of Rog Breslin. Jack was a regular attendant at our reunions and kept in touch with many classmates. 
JOE E. MORRISSEY died of cancer on Jan. 30 in Oregon where he was a partner In the Coos Bay Iron Works. Joe Is survived by his wife, t^vo daughters and a son. DON CALLICRATE *08 wrote of Joe's interest in the Oregon ND Club. Joe often mentioned how much he enjoyed our 25-Ycar Reunion. The last time I heard from him he inquired about JACK FAGAN and BILL KELLY. 
Tlie Class* Febriiory mailing prompted notes from classtoates that revealed several omisuons in our "In Memoriam" card: CHARLES KIURPHY and LEO McINTYRE advised me of the death of JIM OTOOLE '29 on Jan. 6 in San Diego. Leo McIntyTc also mentioned that the names of TOM MADDEN and JERRY MOORE should be added. TOM WALSH indicated that MIKE FRANTZ had been dead 30 years. JOHN P. MURPHY sent a clipping regarding the death in December of OSKAR RUST '29. JOE ANGELINO reported that his roommate, SAMUEL PRIVITERA '27 of SUvcr Creek. N.Y., died in December, 1965, of heart trouble. LES FLEWELLING mentioned the death in January of STEVE MURRAY, Boy Gmdance '27. You probably noted the recent deaths of o"r former professors. Rev. Edward Finnegan CSC and Gerald Co^rove. 
An excellent and enthusiastic response was received from over 200 classmates who participated in the "Class of 1928 Sunday" by remembering in Mass and Communion, Feb. 27, our Hving and deceased classmates. We are grateful to GERALD SHEIBLEY for suggesting this splendid idea and to HOWIE PHALIN for iridung up the bill for getting the announcements to you. TOM HART, JOHN MURPHY, JOHN IGOE and wives attended Mass In Columbus, Ohio and had breakfast together that Sunday. FRANK MCCARTH Y was joined by ART MILLER, MIKE HOGAN, BERNIE SCHUH and JOE MADDEN at Mass at the Cathedral In Fort Wayne for the occasion. A number of priests in our Class tiered Mass for the classmates on Feb. 27 including Fathers BENAGLIA, QUINN, FITZGERALD, HAMEL. McNEILL, MULREANY and &Ic-SHANE. Cards were received from classmates indicating participation in almost c\'ery state and in two foreign countries—VINCE CARNEY in Prague, Czechoslovakia and BILL DOWDALL in Auckland, New Zealand. 
Our sympathy is extended to BILL DOWDALL on the death of his mother and BOB EVANS on the death of his father. 
I vras sorry to hear of the illness of PAUL BRADY (hexirt); and of sm-gcry in the case of RAY DAHMAN, Dr. BERNIE CROWLEY, JOHN MURPHY and BERN GARBER. 
JOE DOYLE lias 16 grandchildren. He expects to retire from the Wisconsin State Employment Ser^ce In a year. PAUL BRADY, who practices law at I40t E. 9th St., Cleveland, is chief trial co-insel for the Cleveland Transit System. Rev. GEORGE BENAGLIA CSC is at the Newman Center of Arizona U. in Tucson. Rev. CHARLES HAMEL CSC is chapbin to the Brothers and teaches at Notre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, Calif. P.AUL BRUST is prcndent of the Milwaukee Archdiocese Council of CathoUc Men. DON RAU is president of the National Associa­tion of Deputy Tax Commissioners. TOM MAHON is president of the St. F^ul Chapter of Chartered Life Underwriters. LEO ROEMER b president of the Wisconsin Pcblic Service Corpora­tion. 
HAROLD RUPPEL sent me a clipping from Cleveland's The Ptain Dealer for Dec. 20 which carried a picture of BILL O'NEILL, president of the Leaseway Tran^wrtadon Corp., a world­wide transportation business. 
The Class of '28 was represented at the ND Club of Chicago Communion Breakfast by Jl&f ALLAN, HOWARD PHAUN. ED McKEVIN, BILL MURPHY. BILL DWYER, JOHN CAV­ANAUGH and JOE HILGER. 
19 

F. X. JAMES O'BRIEX sent a dipping from the Mar. 28th Afiamt Herald which quoted GEORGE LEPPIG, administrative assistant to the Dade County sheriff, at a Grand Jury Assoc-Confer., concerning the problem of phoney burglary reports. DICK. QUINLAX visited LES HEGELE who is a widower and has eight grandchildren. Lcs is associate editor of the Southern Crosi which is the diocesan papcr^ in San Diego. Lcs has been suffering from arthritis. Dick also saw CARL I.AV.ARES '27 in California. Carl is a member of the XD x\dvisor>- Council for Science and Engineering. 
JOHN* FONTAXA advised me that JOE DIRE's address is 1101 S. Boulevard, Oak Park, 111. AL GURY's neu- address is 609 E. McClurc, Peoria, 
111. Both were on our mail unclaimed list. 
As a result of a series of lectures I recently gave to graduate students at Danbury State College in Danbury, Conn,, I had the opportunity of visiting Dr. CARL PETTERSCH, director of Graduate Studies and Extension Ser\'iccs there. Carl has done an excellent job in establishing graduate education programs in the four state colleges of Connecticut. On my return trip from Con­necticut, I visited our Class president, BERN GARB^ , wlio u"as recovering from surgcr\-. Bern, GEORGE CRONGEYER and I had lunch with a representative of Fu-Jen Catholic U. in Formosa at the suggestion of HOWIE PH.\HX who is a member of the board of directors of that university. ED McKEVIX, JIM ALLAX. JOHX O'SHAUGHXESSY and JOE GRIFFIX got together with Howie Phalin at his home in Winnctka, 111. recently. Father JIM McSHAXE SJ had lunch with KEX COOK '26 of the Boy Guidance program. Fr. Jim sent me a picture of PHIL CEXEDELLA. In listing the bachelors in our Class reccntlv, I forgot to include TROY BOXXER. 
Don't forget to order tickets for the .Army game on Oct. 8 and plan to attend our llth Annual 1928 Cocktail Party at XD immediately following the game. Since ED QUIXX is again making the arrangements, we arc assured of another successful and well-attended affair. 
BERX GARBER visited JOE F. CAXXOX '27 

in Rutland, Vt., where he is Rutland County 
clerk and active in civic affairs. Bern also 
reports that LARRY CULLINEY has good 
health again and Is fully active with the FDIC 
once more. 
—LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, Secretary­

1929 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. A6556 
\n .Army-XD after-game gct-togcthcr is being 

planned for Oct. 8 for members of the Cass 
of *29. Make your plans now! 
ED GAYXOR of Gaynor Food Ser\ice, 250 

X. St., White Plains, X.Y., relayed tins infor­mation: '*I regret to inform yo-s that 'M.\RTIE* (ifARTIX G.) FOLEY PhBC '29 passed a%vay Feb. 19 at his home, 177 Davis .Ave., White Plains, X.Y., the result of a sudden heart attack. Martie became associated with General Motors Corp. shortly after graduation from XD in 19^. At tbe time of his death, he was an executive in the overseas di\-ision of GM in New York City. He and his wife, Billie (Fitz­gerald), his son Ken, and daughters Cindy (a student at Ripon College In Wisconsin) and Gerry spent several years in Bombay and In Argentina with GM. His wife and children survive him. Prior to the sudden heart attack, Martie had been in good health." 
OSKAR D. RUST *29, owner and manager of Rust and Sons Wholesale Supply Co., Greens-burg, Ind. died Dec 19. We extend our sympathy to Mrs. Rust, her two daughters and four sous, two of whom, John a senior and Joseph a freshman, are now at Xotre Dame. 
The many friends of JIM GALL.\GHER, 366 

W. Mt. Air>- Ave., Philadelphia, will be sad­dened by the contents of this note from him. **Eva Chittick Gallagher, my wHc since Feb. 20, 1933j died unexpectedly in Philadelphia on Feb. 12. Xot many of my classmates knew her, but she was very proud of XD and ahva>-s a willing worker in its cause. Pray for her." Jim is with the Office of the Commissioner of BasdiaU, 680 Fifth Ave., Xew York. 
Dr. TOM FERRITER, 86 Atwater Terrace, Springfield, Mass., has the sincere s\*mpatliy of his classmates on the recent death of his wife Claire. She, too, will be remembered In our prayers. 
20 
JOHX M. GILTINOX and fellow attorneys of 
the Chicago Lawyers Guild made a retreat at 
the Fatlma Retreat House recently. John took 
a fetv minutes to \isit with friends on the 
campus including Father CIL\RLES DOREMUS, 
Corby Hall, PAUL BARTHOLOMEW and your 
secretary'. John's office is at 30 X. LaSalle St. 
GEXE MILLIFF EE'29 writes from 21(M0 W. Lake Rd., Rocky River, Ohio: "On Sept. 26, 1964, I had a stroke and w*as confined to the hospital for about six weeks. Evidently the Good Lord was not ready for me. I went back to work at the Ohio Bell Telephone Co. for 13 iveek$ but, on the advice of the company doctor, I retired on sickness disability and in July I will retire on pension. I still have a slight impairment in the little finger of my left hand. Tills has limited my hobbles but, it is gradually recovering. My son, James, is a Junior at Parsons College in Fairfield, Iowa. He is taking bus. adm. My daughter, Maril^'n, is living in Albany, Ga. Her husband is at Turner Air Force Base and expects to be sent out soon." I'm sure Gene would enjoy a letter or a call from his classmates. 
MARC KIRCHXER, Olivia and Marc II still reside in WInston-Salem. Since October '65 he has been commuting to Burlington, N.C., a round trip of 100 miles daily, where he is employed by the Defense Control .Administration Services. You may recall that Marc suffered a minor heart attack In January 1965. 
TOM M.\HAFFY, 7 Wayside Lane, Scarsdale, X.Y., writes: "Larrv-, I was surprised to team from the Class of *29 column In February of the death of 'DOC Doughert}*. He ivas my freshman-hall roommate (1925-26) along with JACK FLAXAGAN and BILL BUTLER. Doc was the only healthy member of the foursome, but apparently the good die young. In the intervening -U) years I saw Doc only once, about 10 years ago when he visited friends In Scars-dale. Yet, I could never forget that he was the most honest and sincere person I have ever known. All the good things said about him in your column are surely true. Please fonvard the enclosed Mass card to his daughter." We have, and for the record, the address of Miss Louise Dougherty is 591 Lowell .-Vve., Cin­cinnati, Ohio 45220. 
Tom continues, "I was on the campus this past June for the graduation of mv godchild, WILLIA.M M. WELCH. I'm sorrv- that we did not have time to see you and others of the Class, but we promise to do so on the next trip." How about coming to the .Army game on Oct. 8 and the after-game get-together? "As you may recall* I left XD In June of '27 and later was graduated from Fordham Law School. However, I list myself In the Class of '29 at XD. contribute annually and try to keep in touch through the various publica­tions." Tom, your Class sccrctarj" thanks you for your letter and is sorrv' that you came to the end of the page before you told your classmates something more about yourself and vour family. 
JOE MORRELL AB'29, attorney at law, 188 Montague St.^ Brooklyn, was the source of our information on the Jan. 31 death of Prof. PETER A, BEE BS'29, former dean of students and former chairman of the mathematics department of Xew York Community College, Brooklyn. The item was received in time for inclusion In the obituary column of the March-.Aprll 1966 ALVI^SVS, but too late for this column. Pete who was an end on one of Rockne*s teams went on to receive an MS from Xew York U. in 1944. In ^VorId War II, he was an Army Air Force captain In the European and African theaters. He was named chairman of the depart­ment of mathematics at Community when it opened 19 years ago. He u-as professor of mathematics at tlie time of his death at St. Vincent's Hospital, Statcn Island, after a long 
illness. Pete's wife predeceased him Xov. 6, 
1965. They had no children. A sister, Mrs. Margaret Mclnemey of Statcn Island survives. 
BILL WILBUR BSCE was a campus visitor on Feb. 22. Bill is still employed by the Xorth­westem Railroad, Chicago, where he is in charge of bridge design. His son Jim is In high school and Is headed for XD in September 1967. It was a real pleasure to visit with Bill who had escaped our mailing list. His recollections of the late I920*s were unusually sharp. 
ELMO MOVER of Saratoga Springs v%-as a Xew York visitor the vveck of March 21 for the IEEE meeting. We made the most of attending the Tuesday sessions and having lunch together. Elmo is his youthful, fast walking, vibrant self. He reports that Sue and the three children arc well and busy. Nancy Is a nun in Erie, Pa. 

Elmo has been a frequent visitor there to 
implement the equipment in the laboratories at 
her school. 
LOUIS F. HAXEV continues to practice law 
at 120 Madison St., Newark, X.Y. Last fall he 
was a candidate for a Supreme Court judgeship 
in his home town. He plans to return for a 
football game this fall. 
Plan to attend the October 8 Army game 
and Uie Class of '29 get-together that follows. 
—LARRY STAUDER, Secrctarv­

1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT O'Shaughnessy Had, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
1931 
JAMES T. DOYLE 1567 Ridge Ave., Apt 308 Evanston, III. 60201 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 

The big date for our Class is the THIRTY­FIFTH REUXIOX In June. I have received many cards and letters which Indicate a strong atten­dance. The importance of this Reunion Is tlie constant reminder of attrition in our Class which I r?ceivc from the Alumni Office in the form of letters to families offering condolence in the loss of their husband. Among the most recent of our classmates to receive his eternal reward was GEORGE F. KAV.^NAUGH of Mansfield, Ohio, who died Januar>- 15. Sympathy of the Class is extended to Mrs. Kavanaugh and also, to JOHX 
F. SAUXDERS in the loss of his mother In February. 
Many of you have enjoyed the vividly new .\LUMNUS and some of you have taken ad­vantage of the tear-out postcard to write infor­mation for the 1931 column. Among those I have heard from are XOEL M. GIES who recently moved to Pasadena, Calif., and more recently to Monterey Park, Calif., which is a bit closer to his friend ED SHEERAX of Long Beach. FRAXK KOSKY, also, wrote saying how much lie enjoys the ALUSINUS and extending his best to all the "muscle men of '31 PHY. ED." Frank has been busy at the books again, and recently was awarded an MA degree from NYU. 
Since returning to Chicago^ I have run into classmates and fellow Alumni. One day, coming down late, I was riding the Evanston elevated train and who should come aboard but PAUL FENLOX *I9, beloved by many of our era. We had a wonder­ful visit and after my ride I am well prepared for what will greet me on the campus after an absence of five years. Paul is well and sends hts warmest greetings to all the men of '31. He had seen PHIL AGNSTEN in Crystal Lake who told of plans to be on hand in June with FRAXK HOLLAND for early golf. Last week I had a visit from BILL BERGAX, brother of the late JOHN BERCAN *31, who was given my office address by 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 

JOHN MOTz '30: Canadian publisher 
Experience is always a prime qualification when considering men for positions; and in the field of journalism few can match the his­tory of John E. Motz '30. President and publisher of the Kitchener-Waterloo (Ontario) Record, he is the third generation of his family in the newspaper business. 
Recently, this experience received recognition in his election as presi­dent of the Inland Daily Press Asso­ciation, the largest and oldest 
TOM ASHE, the travel man in Los Angeles. I had an interesting v-isit with Bill and he told me of his plans to be in Roswcll, N.M. I asked him to be sure to visit my good friend, F. X. .MURPHY. I hope to hear about this from Bill when he returns to Chicago. 
I saw RAY COLLINS recently and also ran into GEORGE COSTELLO who is in the Bankers BIdg. with me. Both plan on making the Reunion. LEO KLETZLY has surprised both himself and me by scnding another note. I hope he and many others will do the same. Leo has two sons, both ND Alumni. I also had a note from one of my favorite, yet errant correspondents, SPIKE SULLIVAN. He has been busy at various affairs and football games, and mcntionrd seeing PAUL DUNCAN, JOHNNY BURNS, ED CUNNING­HAM, DEON SUTTON and GEORGE JACK­OBOICE at the Army game in New York. Others mentioned who I am sure will also appear in June are: JERRY CROWLEY, JACK SAUNDERS. .AUSTIN BOYLE, ART McMANMON, BERT -METZGER, TO.M CANNON. BEN OAKES, BOB MASSEY, CARL CRONIN. ED MURRAY and TOM MONAHAN. 
WOULD LIKE TO GET .MORE NEIVS I.\, BUT WITH THE REUNION APPROACHING I HOPE TH.AT AS .MANY .•\S POSSIBLE ARE MAKING PLANS TO BE ON HAND IN JUNE. 
Sec you then. 
—J.VMES T. DOYLE, Secretary 

1932 
JAMES K. COLUNS 2982 Torrington Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
The Vcr>- Reverend PAUL HALLINAX, arch­bishop of Atlanta, lias virtually recovered from the serious illness he contracted in RomCj and is back on full-time duty. He recently spoke at the 50th Anniversary- of Cathedral Latin High School in Cleveland which he had attended. 
Capt. BOB LEE has been shifted by the Na\-y to Pearl Harbor, Ha^^•aii, to become legal officer of the naval district. He and Gertrude recently welcomed a granddaughter in Florida. This is Bob's second tour of duty in Hawaii. 
ED DeBARTOLO has broken ground on the largest shopping center in his chain, this one wll represent a total investment of over §20,000,000. Ed has built more than 60 shopping centers in the past, and still controls them. 
LEO SVETE is the operations manager of the United States Steel plant in Lorain, Ohio, where he recently moved into a new house at Oak Hill Manor. 5537 Bcavcrcrest Dr. 
BUD DYNIEWIC2 is still in the oil business in the Chicago area, and has recently moved to 2616 Flossmoor Dr., Flossmoor, III. 
Among other recent changes of address arc ED RHATIGAN to Willmen-v- Lane, Greenwich. Conn.; BOB DAVIS to Box 157, Lowell, Ind.; and TED HALPIX to 3065 N. Woodruff Ave., Mil­waukee. 
It is with a great deal of sorrow that I must report the death of HUGH BALL who passed away in his Florida home on .April 17. A resident of Lakewood, Ohio, Htgh is sur\ived by his wife, Florence, and three bo>-s. From all of the Class is extended heartfelt sympathy to Hugh's family. 
—JAMES K. COLLINS, Secretary 
regional organization of daily news­papers in North America. John is the first Canadian to serve as head of this 519-member group which covers 22 states and "our neighbor to the north." 
In 1959, John also was the first Canadian member "of the advisory board of the American Press Insti­tute at Columbia University in New Yorlc. 
His fellow Canadian newsmen twice named him president of the 
1933 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. 
Gillespie & 0*Connor, 342 Madison Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10017 
LUCIEN KEMPF, visiting New York recently from Lindsay, Okla., had lunch with BILL LYNCH, MARSHAL McWANEY, JIM ROSS and J.-\CK HOYT, Lucicn is now our Class representative on the Xotrc Dame Foundation. In his travels he recently ran into P.\T BURNS while he was visiting in Natchez, Xfiss. and saw JERRY GREER while changing planes at O'Hara .Airport in Chicago. 
Dr. & Mrs. ROBERT DONOV.AN of Arling­ton, Mass.. recently announced the engagement of their daughter, Kathleen Mar\* Donovan, to Ensign PHILIP A. DUR of Lafayette, La. Kathleen is being graduated from St. Mary's in June and Ensign Dur is a 1965 ND graduate. A June wedding is planned at Notre Dame. 
ED ECK.ERT recently had Ara Parseghian and PAUL HORNUNG as guest speakers at a Church affair in Albany, N.Y. 
BILL L^'NCH called recently to say that a friend of his, traveling through the Philippines, called ED ROXAS while in Manila. Ed sends his best wbhes to all of his classmates stateside. He has four children, ages 4 to H. Bill also tells me that a representative of his company sees FERDI.VAND KRANTZ in or about Washington when he visits there frequently. 
D.-WE POWERS, who has been a professor at Queens College in New York since the late 1930's, has been lighting for some eight years anti-Catholic bias and discrimination on the stafl* at Queens College. Dave, along with three other professors, took the discrimination matter through all the courts In New York and recently, after an eight-year investigation, the State Commission for Human Rights made a finding that there Is ". . . probable cause to credit allegations of anti-Catholic bias at Queens College.** A public hearing on the matter is due in the near future. This is a great victory* for Dave and the other members of the Queens College staff who have fought the matter so long and so successfully. 
CH/\RLIE CO.XLEY of Havcrioun. Pa., wrote recently advising us that JOHN TOBIN is now a contact representative for the Veterans .Admin­istration at the VA Hospital in Tomah, Wis. John was a roommate of FRANK WERNER, our Senior Class president. Charlie also tells us that his namesake, PETE CONNELLY, is making arrangements to bring a large party to Phila­delphia for the ND-Nav>' game scheduled there on Oct. 29. 
We received a note recently from JIM GEREND of Milwaukee, thanking us for condolences sent to him on the recent death of his brother, Ray. Jim is still with the Social Security Board and, presently, is knee-dccp In work concerning the new Medicare program. 
—JOHN A. HOYT JR., Secretary 
1934 EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 523 W. Hillsdale, San Mateo, Cal. 94403 

Canadian Press, in 1960 and again in 1962. He also served as president of the Canadian Daily Newspaper Publishers Association in 1954-55. 
A Kitchener, Ontario, native, he is married jmd has five children, three sons and two daughters. His oldest son, William, graduated from Notre Dame in 1958. John also is a member of the board of governors of the University of Waterloo (On­tario) and the Stratford Shakespear­ean Festival of Canada. 
1935 
FRANK T. McGUIRE 
V. P.—Special Proiecfs, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
JIM HAMILTON was honored recently by his home (ou-n of Racine, Wis., as it5 "Citizen of the Year." He was cited for his sustained com­munity activity In such diverse fields as United Fund, Boy Scouts, Theatre Guild and financial campaigns for Dominican College and the Sister? of St. Dominic. Congnitubtions, Jim, from all of us. 
BOB FORBES has been in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in the insurance business for 20-odd years. He sees some of the New York contingent on his trips there, while every once in a while, some get to San Juan. If you do, look him up. I can attest to his being a fine host. 
On a recent trip to Caracas, Venezuela, I had the pleasure of having lunch with NHKE SHEEDY. He has some gray in the hair, but except for that, seems little changed from our college days together. He still has all the energy he always had at Notre Dame and, perhaps, this keeps him lean. His engineering work moves him into many diverse fields with one of the largest industrial groups of the 
country^ 
BOB ROGERS reports that even though the summer is his peak season, the fall and spring are demanding. So it must be since he didn't make it to the campus for any games. 
BILL BER.\BROCK Is hosting us at the UND Night in the Quad Cities. I look forward to the reunion with my old Club and Its fine members. 
Had hoped to get to the St. Regis meeting place with the New York group and find out what gives with the world's problems, but ran into a conflict. Hope ^^KE S.\NTULLI, PHIL HEINLE and B,\NJO MAFFEI will get them straightened out and soon. 
Missed seeing CHARLIE MAHER in Miami but did see him on his last visit to the campus. He's active in hiding what's left of southern Florida with massive buildings. 
—FRANCIS T. McGUIRE, Secretary 

From the Alumni Office: 
BERT LISS received tliis year's Brotherhood .\u-ard from the South Bend-Mishawaka Chapter of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. Bert is the founder and president of the Indiana Cab Co. and the local licensee for the nation-wide Hertz Rent-A-Car and Hertz Rent-All Corp. 
1936 
LARRY PALKOVIC 301 Mechanic St., Orange, N.J. 07050 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 

ALUMNUS MAY }9ii JUNE 
W. BAYER JR., 951 W. F'mt St., Oil City. Pa., writes that his son has made him a proud grandpa. BILL BAYER III '63 is in the Army, in Vietnam, however, and hasn't seen his young ton as yet. Bill plans to attend the June Re­union and will give out more news of his doings. 
HANK POJMAN u-ill not be attending our Reunion due to a recent illness. However, he sends his best wishes to all the boys. He is in the savings and loan business and has ANDY PULIS helping him out. 
Received a microscopic card from LEO McFARLAND, Lansing, Midi. He sure can get a lot of news on a post card for xvhich I had to get out my pocket magnifying glass in order to answer his card. Loo would like to know the whereabouts of JOHNNY FORD and M.-VRTY PETERS. Marty is with an aviation company and travels all over the countr>-. Have never received any news of Johnny Ford to date. Leo hopes to sec BILL SAFFA at the Reunion and I would too. Saffa had better get the message. Leo has been 25 years with General Motors. Congratulations are in order. Looked up JIM 
SHERRY a couple of summers ago, but Jim was not at home although he left word that he stopped in to see him. Leo plans to attend the Reunion and \''J11 give out more news at that time. 
In passing forgot to mention H. Poiman*5 ad­dress—2223 W. Roosevelt Rd., Broadview, 111.— in case anyone wishes to write or pay Hank a friendly \isit. 
R. T. BURKE JR., Louisville, Ky.. writes to tell of his visit to ND last fall to attend a meeting and see a football game. He mentions that the campus was so beautiful, even bej-ond his fondest-hopes of 30 years ago. The raw bricks and mud, fields that were Dillon and Alumni Halls have been covered by iv>' and beautiful lawns. Ho^v he wishes the yeare had treated him the same. way. .. 

He calls the campus at ND the most beautiful in 
the country*, but you will have to ask Bob what 
he calls some of the buildings on campus. He 
Writes further that in June the campus will be 
much lovelier and recollections of the serenity 
of life on it while we were students are enough 
to bring us back for the 30-Ycar Reunion which 
Bob plans to attend. He said it would be 
Wonderful to recall old and good times together. 
.-Mso plans to send mc any news that he might 
receive from any of our '36 classmates. 

Received a nice long letter from ANDY 
HUFNAGLE, Farmingdale, L. I. Andy writes 
to say that he is planning to attend the Reunion. 
(At this writing, Andy. JOE MAHAR from 
Kingston, N.Y., JOHN KENNEDY from around 
.Albany way and I are planning to drive out 

together. If anyone else is interested in going 
with us, he should notify any one of us im­
mediately.) Andy and one of his sons attended 
the Na\-\'-XD game, the Arroy-ND smoker at 
the Waldorf and the Army-ND game at Shea 
Stadium. At the Army game he ran into another 
J. KENNEDY, I believe, and they had quite a reunion during and after the game, 
.At this writing I wish to inform you this will conclude the last of my reports before Reunion time. I also wish to say that all secretaries have been asked to limit their reports to 1,000 
ivords in the future so from now on my reports 
%vill have to be brief and concise. However, keep on writing and send the news along and I \rill do my best to write !t up and fonvard it on. 
—LARRY PALKOVIC, Secretary 
1937 JOSEPH P. QUINN P.O. Box 275, lake Lenape, Andover, N.J. 07821 
WELL-KNOWN PITTSBURGH ARTIST AND CRITIC, Sister M. Hilda Giegerich RSM '35, is seen here with a wood rendition made in Oberammergau, Germany, of a Madonna plane she designed. Currently, Sister is teaching sculpturing and painting at Our Lady of Mercy Academy in Monroeville, Pa. 
From the Alumni OfBce: 
In Ma«h JOHN CACKLEY became director of development and public relations at Allentown College of St. Francis de Sales in Center Valley, Pa. His wife. Marguerite, and their eight children will Join him soon In the Allentown area. 
Civil Court Judge WILLfAM SHEA of New York City was selected "Hibernian of the Month" in February by the Ancient Order of Hibernians. 
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 
7]39 Western Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46625 
Xews is mostly sad this time. JOHN G. "Jack" MCCARTHY , regular left half on the football team, died of a heart attack in Chicago, April 16, and was buried from St. Gregory's Church. His funeral xvas attended by many of his former team­mates from his Chicago high school and Notre Dame da>-s. Jack was in apparent good health and was planting hedges in his back yard with his wife, Lorraine, when stricken. He was a partner with his father at the Chicago Board of Trade. He leaves a son, John G. Ill, in high scliool and a daughter, Dolores, in grade school. 
EDMUND S. KOWALSKI of South Bend, died of a heart attack while bowling on Jan. 23. He was in the scminar\' during school but health forced him to leave. He later ^vorked for the New York Central and was ticket agent at the time of his death. 
BOB HACKMAX, 123 Ridgewood Dr., Youngs­to\%-n, Ohio, lost his wife, Jean, in Februarj*. Bob was in the College of Commerce and quite active in the French Club while at school; but, I haven't heard from him since. Our sincere sympathy to him and his family. 
Also sad was the fact that no one wrote to yours truly. Do so! ".MOVIE" NOTES 
GERARD "GARRY" SCHAEFER from Ne­braska to 423 Blair Rd., Vienna, Va. JOE MOORE to 1300 Lafayette E., Detroit, Mich., from Grand Rapids, Mich.; and Rev. CHESTER SOLETA CSC from Notre Dame to Maison des Lazarista, 95 Rue de Sevres, Paris VI. 
—BURNIE BAUER, Secretary From the Alumni OfHce: 
In March, Dr. A. O. ZOSS was appointed corporate cttrector of commercial development for the Celanese Corp. BURNIE BAUER \%as re­nominated as democratic candidate for the Indiana House of Representatives, and will run for his second consecutive term in November. 
1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 1804 Greenwood Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46614 
Those reactivated "Alumnus Cards" opened the door .. . so let's keep them coming! 

From GERRY "Jud" M. FALLER, now of 403 Sunnyvale Dr., Healdsburg, Calif. 95448: " . . . moved from Fr>-burg, Pa.—my home town—after living there for the past ??? years. Business was furniture and funeral home. Now, furniture only. Our children, three bo>-s and three girls, are with us. Bought the present business from the owner who was semi-retired. Would like to hear from "Spike" SIEGEL and all '39ers now on the West Co^t. A great change from the East. Ch'mate is excellent and the future looks good. ND men in the area—we have the finest in furniture.'* Ttianks, Gcny. You ND men in the area, spruce up the ol* ranch with Jud's finest. 
LARRY SUTTON writes from 30 Park View, Hatch End, Middlesex, England: "Have spent the past year here in London with a British organiza­tion called the Institute for Strategic Studies. .Am in the suburbs with my wife and three children and *go up to London' ever%' day on the train. Still in the Air Force, howc\'er, and probably will be found at Headquarters, SH.APE, near Paris after July of this year. Haven't seen any classmates for a long time and, for the last year, not very many Americans." Larr>*, or Col. John L. Sutton hopes to turn up at the next reunion. 
Also from the "card report," P.\UL C. TULLY writes: *'Eight members of our '39 Class convened at a relaxing luncheon at 'Club 60' in New York City, Dec 28, consisting of HARVEY FOSTER, LARRY DOYLE, TOM GILLESPIE, DICK. ANTON, JIM McGOLDRICK, AL SCmHTZ, ED VonHOENE, and PAUL TULLY. About 32 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
members of *39 were invited; a larger response is hoped for on the April 14th luncheon, same club." Nice to have seen you, Paul, and your lovely wife during Freshman Weekend, September 1965. 
Saw Adelaide and DAVE MESKILL with daughter Kathleen SMC '67 and son Tim '69 at the Bengal Bouts finals. 
All for now. Please remember deceased members of our Class in your daily prayers and Masses. —JOSEPH E. HANNAN, Secretary 
From the Alumni Office: 
VINCE DcCOURSEY \vas honored with the South Bend B'nai B*rith 1965 Brotherhood Award in February. 
1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 117 S, Stewarf Ave., Lombard, III. 60148 

Establishing an April 15th deadline for the Class news when your secretary is involved with many tax returns at the very same time seems most unreasonable, but I am doing my best. 
We have lost three more of our classmates— JOHN COLE, TOM O'BRIEN and CHRIS QUINX. Let us continue to remember our deceased classmates in our daily prayers, partic­ularly tliese three and their families. I also extend the condolences of all the men of '40 to DICK STEFFANIAK upon the death of his \vi(e, Joan, and to JOE HART upon the deaths of his mother and father. 
Received the follovwng card from ED\VARD J. O'BRIEN '34 which reads as follows: "This is to report the death of THOMAS B. O'BRIEN on December 13 in Pituburgh, Pa. He died un­expectedly of a heart condition that had pre­vailed since ser\'ice in the Marine Corps. A practicing attorney, Tom is survived by Mrs. Dorothy Snyder O'Brien, Ens. Thomas B. Jr., Suzanne, and Edward F. The address is 1934 Clear\'iew Rd., Glensham, Pa." 
GERRY S.\EGERT sent a most interesting letter and I hope many of you will follow his example. He starts by saying, "Judging from the last few issues of the ALV:HSVS, I see you have not been receiving much help in the 'news' department. I feel just as guilty as the rest. Saw HUGH LAUGHNA at the So. Cal. game. He and CHARLEY KELLY were together, but because of room shortages had to stay in Culver, Ind. TOM FLAD and I were pleased to get rcseni-ations in Elkhart. Heard from MIKE CORGAN several times. Mike is Devaney's chief assistant at Nebraska and their 
success has been phenomenal. Mike and DON GILLILAND got together in Phocnuc Ariz., when the Nebraska team stopped off en route to the Orange Bowl. Don sure loves his new home. His letters seem sponsored by the local Chamber of Commerce. 
"At the closed-circuit Mich. State game, I saw old reliable JIM ROGERS and JERRY SEXTON. I bawled Jerry out for missing the 25th Reunion, but he had a good excuse—his daughter was married that Saturday morning. Finally had JIM DANER and family visit N.Y. for the first lime. We were joined by VIC VERGARA and Dr. JOE CARLUCCI for a get-together with Fr. TOM BRENNAN, our St. Edward's A.C. chaplain. Had a nice note from WILLIAM JOHN HOGAN, one of N.Y.'s leading attorneys, and am looking forward to a get-together with Bill soon." Thanks so very much, Gerry. You have set a very good example for all of us. 
Why don't more of you use those cards in the ALUMNUS? Mrs. Mary WAHL took advantage of this and sent the following information: "WAYNE ^VAHL became a member of IBM's Quarter Century Club in *65 as a Tulsa account representative for the oil industry. Daughter Anne will graduate this May from Loretto Heights College in Denver. Son Tom is a freshman at ND. Daughters Nora and Gina arc students at a local academy and parish school." 
BILL O'HARE also used one of the ALUMNUS cards to tell us that he is now living at 3 Massachusetts Ave.. Danvers. Mass., and is teaching at nearby Salem Slate College. His oldest boy. Bill, is now at St. John's Prep and is aiming for ND. His brother, Greg, will join him at the *'prep" next year. The welcome mat is out for all the men of '40. 
Received some change of address nouces which will faring us up-to-date on some recent moves. JUAN ENRIQUE CINTRON has re­turned to South Bend from Mexico City, residing at 1202 Lincoln Way West. JOE W. LARKIN has moved from Ev*anston, 111. to Marblehead, Mass. HAROLD MADDEN has moved from New Orleans, La. to 9601 Westview Dr., Houston, Tex. Col. DOUG BANGERT is back in Virginia at 910 Dale Brook Dr., Alexandria, Va., returning from Montgomery, Ala. HENRY ROGERS has stayed in the same general area, moving from Omaha, Neb., to 850 Saddle Dr., Florissant, Mo. 
Well, men of '40, we are still short of news and I am looking forward to the issue when I will not have room to publish all of it. Please re­member our deceased men of '40 and their families in you prayers. 
—BOB "Shorty" SANFORD, Sccretar>­
1941 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN 7 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n '12 
From the Alumni Office: 
FRANK WEMHOFF has been named to the board of directors of the American Camping Assn., Martinsville, Ind. 
BILL GARVEY was appointed president of Aluminum Distributors, Inc., the nation's largest all-aluminum warehouse. Bill will also serve as president of Aluminum Hardgoods, Inc., man­ufacturers of toy and garden products; and vice-president of Alumestate, a real estate holding company. 
FATHER TOM O'DONNELL, director of the Ladies of Notre Dame and the ND Library .Assn., was the principal speaker for the annual St. Patrick's Day banquet of the South Bend Hibernians. 
Mayor TOM CURRIGAN, an Irish Catholic, came to the aid of an embarrassed Jew about to be sworn in for a term on the Denver Board of Health and Hospitals by pulling a Yarmulke (the skullcap worn on special occasions) out of his desk drawer. 
1942 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 3333 W. 45th Place, Chicago, III. 60632 
On March 14, TOM WALKER was sworn in as interim sheriff of Broward County, Fla. The county Covers the Fort Lauderdale-HoUyivood area. He was appointed by Florida's Governor Haydon Burns. 
It is with much regret that I advise you of the death of THOMAS \V. TEARNEY on Mar. 
33. Tom succumbed to a heart attack. He is 
suni-ived by his wife, Alice, and three children. —WILLIAM M. HICKEY, Secretary 
From the Alumni Office: 
DICK LENHARD has been appointed Chicago regional sales manager for Signode Corp. JOHN CASBY of Paw Paw, Mich., has been promoted to manager of the Welch Grape Juice Company's Westfield and Brocton, N.Y., plants. He has been production superintendent at the company's Lawton, Mich,, plant since 1964. 
PAUL NEVILLE, former managing editor of the South Bend Tribune was promoted to ex­ecutive editor of the Buffalo, N.Y., Evening Ntws. 
CLARENCE IMBODEN has been elected to a fellowship in the American College of Cardiol­ogy. JIM McFADDEN has resigned his post as the longest acting labor commissioner in New York City's history—ser\ing under two mayors. He intends to work with a national group con­cerned with automation and employment. 
1943 
JACK WIGGINS 5125 Briggs Ave., LaCrescenta, Cal. 91014 
From the Alumni Office: 
BUD DUDLEY was the Philadelphia local co­ordinator for the closed-circuit telecast to LaSalle College of ND's recent international conference on the Theological Issues of-Vatican II. In March, BOB TOWNER, spotts writer for the South Btnd Tribune^ received a certificate of award from the Indiana Assn. of Track Coaches for outstan^g coverage of area track events. 

Presently, ED HANRAHAN is one of three men handling the Chicago grand jury inquiry into the stranglehold on professional boxing by New York gangsters. GERRY FEENEY, this year, was the master of ceremonies for the St. Patrick's Day banquet of the South Bend Hibernians. 
1944 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
Questionnaires still are being received. It will take a while before all are acknowledged in this column, but it is a great feeling for your secretary to have this reserve backlog. Meanwhile, let every­one be patient and not hold his breath until his name appears in print. 
From Panama, a letter came from Bishop MARK McGRATH CSC who is head of the Diocese of Santiago de Verguas. From Tcgudgalpa, Honduras, ^flGUEL FACUSSE wrote that he is president of a chemical specialties plant. From Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico, CESAR MUNECAS reported that he heads IngersoII-Rand de FJl., Inc.; and for the past five years he has been a member of several Cuban exile organizations help­ing refugees. 
A most welcome letter came from a long-lost buddy, BILL TALBOT, New York Cityy who is associated with Samuel French, Inc., play pub­lishers and authors' representatives. A year ago, your secretary tried unsuccessfully to reach him via Western Union. Bill gets around because his firm has offices in London, Toronto, Hollywood and New York. He still reminisces over the 1941 student trip to the Navy game in Baltimore and the weekend in Washington. 
Congratulations are in store for Dr. KEN FORBES, De Pere, Wis., who was awarded the Green Bay-De Pere area ND Club's 1966 Man of the Year Award. Perhaps for JOHN ANHUT there should be condolences because his appoint­ment as Class representative to ND's newly reorganized Annual Alumni Fund is a rough assignment. However, we can be sure that he will do an excellent job. John was Detroit's ND Man of the Year in '64. 
Recently, a phone call came from the inter­national leather king, TOM ROLFS, beseeching your secretary to use influence (?) to obtain four fifty-yard line season tickets for all Green Bay Packer home games. Little does Tom know what an impossibility that is because those seats> should the holders die, are left as specific bequests in wills. Another request came from PAUL DOHR, owner of Dohr Hardware, Peshtigo, Wis. He too should seek out a more influential Packer backer. 
Our sympathy Is extended to JACK WHTTELY, Greenmch, Conn., upon the death of his mother earlier this year. VIC DE SIMON, Rochester, N.Y., attorney, finally recovered from his fractured arm (Dec. '64 ALUMMUS) and penned a note. He is a busy individual—practicing lawyer, deputy legal advisor for Monroe County, former grand knight of Rochester K. of C , district deputy of the 91st N.Y. District K. of C , prexy of his parish Holy Name, former Rochester ND Club president, president of Men's Guild of Cardinal Mooney High, and father of nine—ranging from a high school senior daughter down to a six-month­old son. 
The first Class secretary, JOHN LYNCH ('45­'49), headquartering in Framingham, Mass., re­ported on his family and his actlnties. He is editor of PERINI NEWS and assists in publishing other materiab for the Perini Corp. Perhaps, for the benefit of Milwaukee arez. NDers, he could shed some light on the Braves' move to Atlanta. If anyone desires fine food while in the Coliunbus, Ohio area, stop at GUIDO ALEXANDER'S Desert Inn Restaurant. Guido keeps in touch with his old infantry di\dsion, the 104th (also your secretary's), and plans to attend its 20th reunion in June. MAURICE "Moc" SMITH returned his question-n^re stating that two of his five children are in college. He is president of H. Piatt Co. Builders, Erie, Pa. JIM LLOYD worried over the expla­nation given for his not meeting *'Black John" MURPHY (Feb. '66 ALUMNUS). He arrived over New York in time, but landing was delayed several hours and finally made in Newark. By the time he reached his buddies, 10 hours had elapsed and they scarcely had nussed him. 
TOM CLEMENS returned recently from Beirut, 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
THOMAS GILLESPIE '39: attorney-cheiTiist 
Armed with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering and a master's in chemistry from Notre Dame, as well as an T.T.B from the University of Indiana Law School, Thomas G. Gillespie Jr. '39 has risen to the office of president and director of the Scientific Design Co., Inc. of New York. 
Tom joined the firm, a major inter­national designer and builder of organic and petrochemical plants, in 1955 as a patent counsel. In 1958, he moved into the vice-presidency in charge of legal and contract matters and development activities. 
Although he began his legal 
Lebanon, where he was editor of the USIA Anibic language magazine, Neivs Review. Now-after three years abroad, he lives in Vienna, Va., and is a journalist with the USIA in Washington. BILL JOHNSTON, New Orleans, plans a business trip north and hopes to see his ex-roommate, JOE FIEWEGER, who is a Green Bay-ite, too. Bill, a sales executive, is active in New Orleans 
C. of C. DICK BRIDGES—Virginia Beach, Va., lawyer—inadvertently sent his questionnaire to a New York law firm, and to your secretary came a report on an accident. It vvas confusing, probably more so for the law firm which found out that Dick has two cliildren, Hugh and Margaret; enjoys boating and golf; and last fall, visited the campus for the first time in 23 years. Dr. JACK UTZ was perturbed somewhat over the comments about him in this column (Dec '65 .ALUMNUS). Your secretary suggests that, for a more accurate report on Jack's activities, one should refer to an earlier .ALUMNUS when he was featured as a ^'Spotlight Alumnus." 
EARL ENGLERT probably has seen more '44crs than any other individual. He travels extensively; in fact, his questionnaire and a long letter were posted from Mexico City. Just to mention some he has reported seeing recenllv— JOHN KUH.N, ROGER FUETTER, ED -MO.V.A­H.AX, JACK W'HITELY, JIM FI.NNERAN. HENRY ADAM, JOH.N GULD.\.N", GUS LEGEAV, DICK BENNING. DICK LEON, BERNIE BOWLING, JACK McKENNA, OTTO MILETI, BOB SCHRAM.M. JOE SIMONS, JIXI .MEAGHER, JOE CHRISTAN, BILL TALBOT, FRED EICHORN and TOM BRENN.AN. 
FRA.NK S.ANFILIPPO, Garden Grove, Calif., has volunteered to do whatever he can in his area to assist "Black John" MURPHY, TOM ROLFS and GEORGE B.ARISCILLO with plans for the Silver Jubilee Reunion in '69. Without a doubt, they will accept his generous offer. JIM TREACY of Ridgewood, N.J., an executive in the Inter­national Field of Bendix Corp., recently returned front a six-year European assignment for that firm. An announcement was received stating that JOE GALL, Nashua, N.H., barrister, has become a partner in the law firm of Harkawav, Barry & 
Gall. 
May every '-Her and his family have a fun-fillcd summer; a relaxing and safe time for all. —JOSEPH A. NEUFELD, Secretary 
From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations are in order for Brothers ANDRE LECHTENBERG CSC and GERMAIN FADDOUL CSC on the occasion of their 23th anniversary in the religious order. An announce­ment received in this office recently revealed that JOE GALL has become a partner in the law firm of Harkaway, Barry & Gall in Nashua, N.H. 
1945 
FRANK M. LINEHAN 

G.E. Co., 600 Main St., Johnson Gty, N.Y. 13790 
CHARLIE WOLF has come east and is living at Wcstport, Conn. He is chief refinerv- technologist 
studies at Notre Dame Law School, 
Tom transferred to Indiana after a 
year in order to work as a research 
chemist with ReiUy Tar & Chemical 
Co. After graduation in 1943, he 
was commissioned a naval ensign 
and served on destroyers in the 
Atlantic and Pacific during the war. 
During action at Normandy, Tom 
landed amid the fighting when his 
ship, the USS Glennon, was sunk. 
After the war, he joined Sharp & 
Dohme as a patent attorney, but 
moved to Pittsburgh in 1951 to serve 
as assistant manager of the patent 
department of Koppers Co., liic. A 
member of the bars of Pennsylvania 
—Eastern region for Ethel Corp. He and Rosalie 
have eight children. 
JOHN MADDE.V is West Coast sales manager 
for the Smith-Lee Co. John, MarJ and their /our 
live at Tustin, Cahf. JOHN DREXDEL is practic­
ing lau* \%-ith the firm of Bradle>* & Drendcl in 
Reno. Two boys and four girls make up John and 
Marilvn's family. 
JOHN POWER sends a clipping of PHIL 
COSTELLO's death. Phil started with us in *42 
and lived in Zahm Hall. He practiced law in 
itonroc, Mich., where he was president of the 
Monroe County Bar .Association. He ts sur\'ived 
by Iiis wife, Marj% and four sons. May he rest 
in peace- DR. BILL. SMITH is practicing dentistry-
in Baltimore. The Smiths have four daughters; 
the oldest, Joyce, graduates this year from col­
lege—time flies! 
JIM P.-\RIS has returned to the continental 
stales after five years in Hawaii. He and Gloria 
are living in Palo Alto, Calif, with their two bo>'s 
and two girls. Jim is a research specialist vvith 
Lockheed at Sunni-x-ale, Calif. Former Class 
secrciar>' and leader, AL LESMEZ, is the Pub­
lisher of a Long Island magazine with offices in 
Garden City, He saw PAUL SNHTH in New 
York, recently, and also has heard from GEORGE 
DESPOT and CHUCK SARTORE, who arc both 
fine. Brother KIERNAX RYAN CSC is provincial 
treasurer of the Midwest Province of the Holy 
Cross Brothers, and is stationed at the Provincial 
House at ND. 
Class news Is sort of thin this issue—loo many 
struggling with ihcir income taxes. How about 
passing along some info on yourself and your 
deductions. —FRANK M. L1NEH.\X, Secretary 
From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations are in order for Brothers CAR­
ROL ANGERMEIER CSC and VINCENT DE 
PAUL HUJAR CSC on the occasion of their 25th 
anniversary in the religious order. 
1946 
PETER P. RICHISKI 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n '12 
Received a kind note from Brother CAJET.AN 
HOLLAND CSC. Brother Holland is presently 
teaching at \nncentian Institute in Albany, N.Y. 
Prior to his present assignment, he taught for 
four years in Chicago and seven years in Con­
necticut. Brother Holland also wrote that he 
would appreciate reading more news about his 
former classmates. How about fulfilling his 
wishes? 
JOE PHALEN and I renewed acquaintances 
recently. Joe is a high scliool principal in 
Hartford, Conn. He may be contacted at 157 
Contour Drive, Cheshire, Conn. 

and Indiana, he also has been ad­mitted to practice before the US Patent Office, the Court of Customs and Patent Appeals, and the US Supreme Court A member of the American Ba r Association, the American Patent Association, the New York Patent Law Association and the Advertising Club of New York, Tom also fits in time to work with the Washington Irving Council of the Boy Scouts of America. 
A resident of White Plains, N.Y., Tom is a member of Our Lady of Sorrows parish where his two children, Michael and MargEiret, attend school. 
It is with deep regret and sorrow to report the death, on February 4, of Frank A. Foss, father of FRANCIS L. FOSS. Please remember him in your prayers. 
Let's have a big turnout at the 20-Year Reunion on June 10-11-12. Twenty years is a long time. 
This is your column! If you want it to be of interest, please send in the nett-s. —PETE RICHISKI, Secret3r>­
1947 
JACK MILES 3218 Bentley Lane, South Bend, Ind. 46615 
OXLY A YEAR AWAY 

Only 12 months remain 'til oar 20-Year Re­union under the Golden Dome. That is too short a time to let slip by without making con­crete plans to be w-ith us then. Without U, wTe jUst can't have a sUccessfUI, fUn-filled, meaningful reUnion. 
REQUJESCiST . . . 
Two of our classmates won't be back . . . 

ever. Vou read in the Marcli/April ALUM.NUS 
that GUS KELLY of Morristown, NJ. died Sept. 
10, and now we are advised of the Mar. 26 
death of PHIL COSTELLO, .\tonroe, Mich. 
In your name, I have enrolled both men in 

the Association ol the Providential Proposal on 
the Campus; thus, they are entitled to spiritual benefits as long as the world lasts. I have assured their widows of your continuing prayers for the repose of their souls and, for the strength and courage their survivors need to five life day by day without them. 
Eishteen men of *47 have preceded them in death: PETER J. CASTELLI. WILLIAM P. DELANEY , PHILIP V. DELINCKE. WILLIAM 
B. DOUGHERTV, L JOHN DUCATO, JOHN 
S. FORSTER, HERBERT M. FRIEND, NOEL 
H. GOTTESMAN, CLARE C. LESER, R.W­-MOND A. O'CONNELL JR., FR.ANK G. PETERS, WILLIAM A. PFISTER, Dr. EDWARD 
J. S.ANDERS, GEORGE J. SCHOTT, RUS­SELL S. U.NDERWOOD, ROBERT J. VON HOENE. LEONARD A. WALL, and Rev. Mr. EDWARD B. WILLIAMS. Pray for them. 
AT RANDOM 

Lt. Col. JOHN F. CROWLEY has left the Marine Corps base in 29 Pahns, Calif., in I.ivor of an FPO San Francisco address; an educated gaess suggests d-^ty in Vietnam. 
JACK HOUGHTELING is editor and pub­lisher of The Basketball News in Coral Gables, Fla.; the p*. blication appears twice a month during the hoop season and monthly the rest of the year. 
Rev. WALTER O. BOZEK, whom we knew at ND as Brother Paul of the Cross CSC, writes to report he has moved within Connecticut from Fairfield to Danbury; he is stationed at St. Joseph Church and doubles as principal of the parish grade school and part-time religion teacher at Immaculate High School. 
Identifying huTself as corresponding secretary 
ALUMhJUS MAY I9 « JUNE 

of the JAMES C. SHERIDAN family of Port Washington, NY, Noreen pens this cheery missive: "Here goes—an ND wife answering your plea. We have a group of 47'ers here on Long Island , . . JACK DILLON, attorncy-at-Iaw, w'ltc Alice, and five little Dillons; JOE DITTRICH plus a girl named Mary equals five offspring; JOHN DUNLEAVY and Mary, his spouse, total six; DICK CORCORAN and Bcttc have just left us to enhance the population of Rockland Co. by five; and CHARLIE KOEGLER and Lillian, old Ll'ers, decided that Westchester was to their liking. 
"Jim and I see TOM MANGAN and Lorraine and four results cvcr>* once in a while. All XD'crs going nicely in this neck of the woods. Hope some interested frau will Jot a few names down— it's fun to get that old, old yearbook out and match names to faces. Best regards. P.S. We are eight . . . five girls and one boy." 
DACCA DATA 

Still in enforced exile in Dacca, Brother IVAN DOLAN CSC wrote thus Feb. 10: '*. , . I am here and want lo be there, there in Garo Land. One good thing has come out of all of this—my ulcers are practically cleared up. Must be the good food here. Am still hopeful and will be able to pack my bag in one hour when the good word comes through. 
*'Tliings arc slowly coming back to normal. Today, for the first time since the war began last September, commercial plane flights of Pakistan flew over India, going direct from Ka­rachi to Dacca and back. And, Indian Air Lines flew over certain sections of Paki:;tan on their way from Calcutta to Gauhati in i\ssam. From the fint of next month, air flights will be resumed between Indian and Pakistani cities. From East Pakistan to West Pakistan, a direct air flight is a little over 1000 miles. Since the war, the flight has had to b>-pass India by going from Dacca down to Ceylon, around the tip of India, and then up the west coast of India to Karachi, a distance of almost 3000 miles. It must be noted that Pakistan Air Lines was vcr>* generous during all this time; even though the distance to be covered was tripled, the fares were not increased at all. 
"Somebody poisoned one of my watchdogs last night; that leaves me with only one. Whoever it is must be planning to steal something from the place. 
•'Have a couple of sick bo>-s in the hostel; was up with them till after 2 a.m. last night and this morning. Thought I would catch a little shut-eye during the day, but never got around to it. 
"It is now 10 p.m.; just cliccked the boys to see if they are all in bed—two missing. Will catch them tomorrow . . ." 
OUR COUGHliV* COFFERS 

Treasurer JOE SHARP reveals the expenditures for the two spiritual memorials mentioned earlier have reduced our anemic Class fund to $29. Tills gives us very Utile leeway for contingencies. 
Will you consider this: Stick a buck in an envelope and send it lo me. I'll sec that Joe gets it. We know we're going to need some money for incidental expenses at next year's re­union, and we can expect an increasing ratio of deaths in the years ahead. Whatever you can spare will be put lo proper use. 
—JACK MILES, Secretary-

ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd., Clifton, N.J. 07013 
From the Alumni Office: 
In March, JIM OBERFELL was appointed the 1966 volunteer chairman of the Community plan­ning Division of the United Community Ser\'ices of St. Joseph County (Ind.). BOB DEEGAN was elected president in February of the Abilene (Texas) Chamber of Commerce. Earlier this year BILL VOLL became chairman of the Citizens for Decent Literature of St. Joseph County (Ind.)­RUSS FARRELL has been chosen one of the first nondcric members ever to ser\'e on the board of education of the Archdiocese of Kansas City in Kansas. ED KENEFICK is a district chairman for the Illinois cancer crusade. BOB SNEE has been promoted to manager of the J. C. Penney Company store at Smithtown, L.I., N.Y. 
BILL SHEA was elected vice-president of Armour and Company, Chicago. He will also continue as director of personnel. JIM FITZ­GERALD has been appointed general-order man­ager of the Joseph T- Ryerson & Son, Inc. service center in Philadelphia. FRANK ROTHLNG. Wil­mctte* III. has been named a senior vice-president of the Midwest Stock Exchange. A CPA, Frank has been with the exchange for 10 years and is in charge of Midwest's far-flung auditing activities. He Is also treasurer of the Arm. 
1949 
LEO L. WESLEY 155 Driftwood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
As Batman would say. "Holy .Apostles!" The yellow cards are coming in! The ice has been broken and I have news to rcpart! 
JOHN CAEMMERER notified me that he was elected to the New York State Senate for the 1966 Session from the Eighth Senatorial District repre­senting part of Nassau and part of Queens County on Long Island. On his arrival in the Senate, he called on Rt\Y ZASADA to renew old acquaint­ances, Ray will also be working with the Senate during this session. 
A heart-throbbing card from ERIC REY dc CASTRO living in Lima, Peru, He pleads for mail from any classmates—better yet—he welcomes any and all in the area lo visit when such opportunities exist. He says he is '*in real estate" in Lima. He was married in '59 and has two children. Drop him a line—please! Parque Contrahniranle Mora 138, San Isidro, Lima, Peru. 
RAY RUSEK writes from Camilliis, N.Y., to tell us that he and his wife had a daughter, Jacqueline Ann, on Aug. 25. As Ray put it, ". . . late news, but since our other two children, Marilyn and Phil, are 16 and 14. the long span is news!" Ray iiad a pleasant vis:: with chemical engineering thesis-partner, J.ACK C. MURPHY of New* Jersey, while attending ASTM meeting in Philadelphia during Northeast power blackout. Just like back on campus—lights out! 
STEPHEN J. GALLA MD of Pittsburgh h»s harsh news to report. On Dec. 23, he underwent hrain surgery for remo\'al of the pituitary gland. There is hope that this will put a stop lo the prc­rctinal hemorrhages which have been plaguing him since last April. In May 1965, he spent a month taking a special course in radioisotopes at the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies. This coming August, he plans to start a six-week span of visits to several mission hospitals in Nigeria. Presently, however, he is just trying to recover from the surgery- You're in all our prayers, Steve. 
A fine card from BOB CONNELLY In San Mateo, Calif. Married an ex-Pan .Am stewardess in 1958 and boasts four "young-uns." Selling in­surance and a repeat member In 1966 of the "million dollar roundtable." Reports tins sad news w-Fr. TOM CONLEY (Rev. Klcran Conley STD) of Badin—1W8—died in an accident In early February. Bob sends greetings to MARTY LALLY, JOE FLOOD and BOB SKIPWORTH (Rochester, N.Y., gang). Bob signed his card, "Your paper boy"; shades of old Badin Hall day^. 
There are other cards on hand which will be covered in the next "uritc-up." Look up YOUR reply card and send me a quick note on what you're doing, where you've been, trails you've crossed. Any St. Louis Cardinal rooters in the crowd? I need help! Fr. WILLIAM NEIDHART says he still won't forgive the Cacds for that 1946 scries with the Red Sox. 
—LEO WESLEY, Secretar>­

1950 JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 Monserrate St., CoralGables.Fla. 33146 
Please look back in the January, 1966, issue of the ALUU.N'US, find the yellow card inserted therein and fill it out (or a letter if yon wish), sending It on to me with some personal history or news of yourself and your family. 
Had a nice report from DICK "The Puncfi" McGOLDRICK who has Handschumacher and Co., Inc., manufacturers of fine meat products in Boston. Dick and Marcie's oldest of four children. Biff, age 13, Is a budding "Moose," lettering at offensive end and guard, and de­fensive linebacker. MIKE JUDGE, trust officer of the Toledo Trust Co., spent a splendid vaca­tion in the Fort Lauderdale area. LEX COS­TANTINI is with the Ohio State University School of Education, Educational Personnel Placement, 1945 N. High St., Columbus, Ohio. Conover-Mast Publications, Inc., 205 E. 42nd St., New York City, issued a press release con­cerning the appointment of TOM HANNON JR. as ne^v administrative vice-president. He will be moving from the Chicago area to New York City in June. He had also been Wce-president of the Chicago chapter of the .Assoaatlon of Industrial Advertisers. At present^ Tom, his wife, Mary Jo, and their three children reside in River Forest, III. 
Carolyn and BOB HOCHMAN will be \-isiting Europe in the next month. Bob is associate professor of metallurgy- at Georgia Tech. He is obtaining his eight passports and visa pictures for a mid-May trip to Moscow where he will present a paper at the Third International Con­ference on Sletalltc Corrosion. GEORGE Mc-CULLOUGH, happily married with four children in Flagstaff, Ariz, wrote: "I haven't seen anyone from ND for quite some time; any of them trav­elling Highway 66 should stop in to say hello. If Rev. BERNARD GREY sees this, I would like to have htm drop me a line . . . same goes for JI.M FRIEDSAM and BUCK O'KEEFE. Tell ART .\RQUILLA that a doctor friend of his from the scrv'ice lives in Flagstaff and has filled me in on the 'activities' of Art!" 
BOB SLOCUM reports that he will marry Angela Laubach, July 2, and will have their hono'moon in Portugal, Spain and Morocco and then reside at 6109 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. I like JACK ^^cGOLDRICK's esprit dc corps in using the yellow cards in the January *66 ALUM.NUS: "This card is a good idea . . . encourages non-correspondents Ukc mc. .. . I am scribbling this on a commuter train going from Chathan, N.J., (where I live with my wife Peggy 3nd six little ones—Robert. KcWn, Meg, Mary, Christopher and .Anne) to New York City, where I work for American Can Co. as manager of employee information." 
I also received a nice note from BILL KEN­NEDY reporting that his youngest, Bridget Eileen, was bom Jan, 6. He has one son, II, and four daughters In a row—nine, seven, six and two months. He is now Chicago sales rep­resentative for Professional Products Co. of San Diego, Calif., and resides at 206 N. Washington St., Park Ridge, III. BILL "William J" MUR­PHY and his wife spent a week in Washington, D.C., for the .A.R.A. Convention. They have eight children, sit boys and two girls. He is president-treasurer of the Murphy Rubber and Supply Co. in Chicago. I have learned that Lee and PAUL RAPACH are in Wlmettc, III. Paul has been Involved with labor-management reja­tlons—from corporation staff representative through director of industrial relations—in liaison for professional employee associations. He is now with Hodge-Cronin and Associates, management consultants in Des Plaincs, III. This firm pro­vides services in executive search, location and relocation, general personnel management and industrial relations consulting. A nice note from FRANK McBRIDE JR., Dayton, Ohio, reads: "Certainly enjoyed reading the latest issue of our Alumni magazine and especially about FATHER BARRY, who is now in Akron, Ohio. How well I remember him as rector of Farley Hall in the spring of 1947. I enjoyed seeing you and our other classmates last summer at the reunion. I am in the steel warehouse business with my father in Dayton, Ohio. Have been ever since graduation in '50. I visited Fort Lauderdale last April. . . ." 
JOHN HERR of Davenport, Iowa, reported on their ND Club's St. Patrick's Day party. LARRY WEBER no*v reside* in Los Altos Hills, Calif.: "Enjoyed your .Alumni cap—say hello to 
25 
my good friend SCOOTER COUTRE. I hope to pass by some day to say hello. I would like to know the whereabouts of MATT ROMANO, FRANK MALZONE, JIM ^L\HER, DICK MAKER and JOH-V FERRY. I saw GERRY BEGLEY several years ago in New York. How­ever, you may have more recent info on him. Also, LEO BLABER now lives near Chicago. . . . AL ZMEIZCHSKX (now Al Adams) and GIUNT THOICrrO.V live here in the Bay Area. I have been in San Frandsco area for eight years. Mar­ried—four offspring—two and two. Assistant man­ager of engineering for Arthur A. McKee and Co. (Cleveland home office). Hope to return to ND soon to recruit some good engineers. Best regards.'* 
CHARLIE HICK^L•\NX resides now at East North Port, L.I., and reports that after gradua­tion received an LLB from Har\ard in 1953, spent three years on active duty with the Na\y, and from 1957 to 1963 was ^^•ith the Office of the General Counsel of the Na\y. In 1963 and 1964 he was wjlli the RCA legal department and since 1965 he has been in private practice in Hunting­ton, L.I., N.Y. He has two boys and two girls. JOH.V BRAET, nov^- Jiving al Mcnio Park, Calif-, relumed to ND in 1956 with his family to live in Vcl\'ille while pursuing his master's in elec­trical engineering. He has two boys—Steve, 17, and Jack, 1-J—who loved the campus life. He is now in the Agcna Program Office at Lockheed Missiles and Space Corporation. Dr. JIM CAR­BERRY will remain at Cambridge U. (England) until this June. He has been lecturing at Technion in Israel, in Warsaw, Italy, Holland and Denmark, and will return home with both daughters who have developed a lovely British accent, correcting their father's speech. JACK NUSSKERN, noi*- at 842 Thorn St., Sewickley, Pa., reports that he is still teaching ph>-sical education and coacliing football and track at Quaker Valley High School at Leetsdale, Pa. (14 miles from Pittsburgh). His 1965 football team finished second in the eight-team conference and the track team won the conference last spring. He received a high honor, in my opinion, when the high school dedicated the 1965 yearbook in his honor. He and his wife, Joan, have four children— Mark, 16, Kevin, 12, Susan, 9, and Tammy, 4. 
ROY DEEB is now at 5635 Seventh Aie. N. in St. Petersburg, Fla. TOM EGAN is in .\orth Hollywood, Calif. VIC CHACHO is now in Phoenbc, Aril. RON SANTORD is in Northfield, 
N.J. DICK CUNNINGHAM U now in Portage, Ind., TOM SAGGAU in Avon Lake, Ohio. Ara's right arm, GENE PASZKIET, is now at 302 Peashway in South Bend. ART BOTTIE is in Middletown, N.J. RAY BYERSMITH in West­chester, III. BOB RUETZ is in Omaha, Neb., and DON LUECK has moved from Zurich, Switz­erland, to Booz, Allen and Hamilton, 1-5 Nexv Bond Street, London W-1, England. 
Just a friendly reminder. Don't throw away the January-February 1966 issue of the ALUMNUS. Find the yellow card inserted therein and send it along with some news. 
Best regards, *'Sparky" —JOHN W. THOR.VTO.V, Srcrciar^­
1951 
ROBERT KUNGENBERGER 
3405 Thames Dr. Fort Woyne, Ind. 46805 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 
From the Alumni Office: BILL GRIEF, manager of public affairs for Mead Johnson & Co., was appointed in May to the Saint Mar>'-of-the ^Voods College Board of Lay Trustees. HUGH HENNEDY was promoted from associate to a full professor of English at St. Francis College, Biddcford, Maine. DICK GIED­LIN, basketball coach at Alfred Tccli for the past nine seasons, has been named to the post of di­rector of athletics and ph>'sical education at State 
U. of New York Agricultural and Technical College in Alfred, N.Y. JIM CARROLL, a South Bend public relations consultant, was the roast-master for the 17th Annual Gridiron Show in April, sponsored by the South Bend Press Club. 
1952 
HARRY L. BUCH 
600 Board of Trade BIdg., Wheeling, W. Vo. 26000 
JOHN H. ROSS of Hasbrouck Heights, NJ, is 
presently serving as secretary of the Vanaditmi 
Corp. of America. Formerly^ John was assistant 
secretary and, before joining the company, he was 
secretary- of the NY Stock Exchange. Presently 
he is residing with wife and nine children at 
320 Madison Ave. JOHN SKUDRIS, 5891 
Lakcview Ave., Yorba Linda, Calif., is associated 
vdxh Spaulding Fibre Co., Inc., as regional sales 
mgr. L. MATTHEW DUGGAN, married for 
10 years, lives in Buffalo, NY, with wife and 
three sons. E. F. FOLEY, 168-l2-33rd Ave., 
Flushing, N*Y, with the FBI since June 1952, and 
now a supervisor in its criminal division of 
NY office, has five children and is keeping busy 
operating the basketball and baseball programs 
for children on parish level. 
ROBERT JOHN PETERSON is now Ii«ng at 
P.O. Box (C. Postal) 655, Juiz de Fora, M. Gcrais, Brazil—S..A. He and his wife, Lilia, have five children. He is managing director of a subsidiary of Becton, Dickinson & Co. of 
X.J. JOE F. MORRIS is currently residing at 3226 ^Vcstencdge Drive, Columbus, Ind., with wife, JoAnn, of Milan, Kan. and five children. Joe is the manager of capital budgets and con­trol, Cummins Engine Co. ROBERT G. TREHEARNE married Jacqueline Whitehead of Phoenix, in September 1963. They fiavc two children and are living in Bridgeport, W. Va., where Bob is employed as head of the Industrial Engineering Dept. of Carbon Products Div. of Union Carbide Corp. 
—HARRY L. BUCH, Sccrctar>' 
1953 
DAVID A. McElVAIN 2328 Alexander Terrace, Homewood, III. 60430 
Just recently, I received a card from LOU BASSO who passed on some most welcome news about himself and a couple of classmates. Not too long ago, Lou joined with three other attorneys to form the law firm of Wilson, Templin, Basso & Basso in Detroit and Birming­ham, Mich. JERRY KELLEY recently added a baby girl to his family—number eight—which rounds out his distribution at four and four. ART PULTE is in the commercial construction business in Troy, Mich. Many thanks, Lou, for the most welcome news. 
BERNIE WOOD now resides in Tampa, Fla., with his wife and four children, and is doing double-duty between his post with the Tampa Tribune and Stetson U- Law School. PAT MONTROY, TOM MORSCH and wives cele­brated St. Patrick's Day in Acapulco, Mexico. I've learned, unofficially, that the city fathers are still trying to figure out how the center line on the main drag got painted green! 
BILL REIDY recently accepted a position with Kraft Foods, and has moved to the New York area. JOE PAGLIARI has acquired an owner­ship interest in the mortgas*^ banking firm of O'Brien and Payne in Chicago. 
Once again, this column is in desperate need of contributors. How about 30 seconds to drop me a card about yourself and any classmates you may have seen recently? 
—DAVE ^fcELVAI^^ Secretary 
1954 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal Hill Blvd., 
E. St. Louis, III. 62203 
Faced with a choice of meeting cither the IRS tax deadline or the ALUMNUS deadline, I must shamefully admit I chose the former. So this is late and therefore short. 
First, let me congratulate the Class of 1966 on their wisdom in selecting Senator Everett Dirksen as Notre Dame's Patriot of the Year for 1966. They couldn't have done any better. 
Finally got some mail. You *'hard guys" must be getting soft- Thanks much, and keep 'em coming. Afaybe this would be a good time to put in 3 plug for a donation to Notre Dame (I make a pitch once every six or seven years, so bear with me). If you've been close to Notre Dame lately or have wsited the campus you know what Webster meant when he defined "progress." ND is some­thing special, "a foot above all the rest" and can use your support to keep moving. The whole idea is to achieve 100 PERCENT CLASS PARTICIPA­TION; DO donation is loo small. In 1965, four hundred and seven of our Class made a donation. We should be able to beat that easily. Do it now! (It's deductible.) That's it from me till 1973 or so, but you can expect to hear from our newly 
appointed Class Agent for Alumni Fund support— 
TOM NESSINGER. As you can imagine, Tom's 
new job is thankless, so make it easy, will ya? 
Tom earns his bread with Arthur Andersen & Co. 
in Chicago. He's married and has three children. 
This Class Agent bit is part of a new program 
that has been vastly successful for other prominent 
universities. 
Received this news release last week: "Tlic board 
of directors of ^facManus, John & .\danis has 
appointed JOHN K. GROSSPIETSCH a vice-
president of the agency." "The Gross" lives at 
232 N. Flake Dr., Palatine, III. Congratulations, 
Margo! 
I saw some classmates in St. Louts recently, .^t 
an XD Club smoker, I ran into DICK .\SH. Dick 
is a CPA and, on the side, is part owner of a 
Mississippi River Showboat. Our St. Patrick's Day 
Dance was rcallv an affair. HERM KRIEGS­
HAUSER and BOB CHICKEY can attest to it. 
JACK POWERS '53 was chairman and did a great 
job. 
JIM FREMGEN is an associate prof, of manage­
ment at the US Naval Postgraduate School in 
Monterey, Calif. Jim *vas on the ND faculty till 
last year. In January, he published a text on cost 
analysis. Jim lives at 919 Petra Lane, Pacific 
Groves, Calif- Mar>- Don and ED SWEENEY now 
live at 1352 First Ave., Salinas, CaliL Tlic 
Swecneys were married in August of 1957 and have 
two boys and two girls. The latest addition, Ann 
Marie, arrived on Dec. 8. Ed works for the 
National Life and Accident Ins. Co. 
Our man in Hawaii is NEIL MacFARLAN. Neil is a major in the Marines, currently at Ft. Smith. The MacFarlans have four little ones— three girls and Neil Jr. Mac would love to hear from BOB MARTIN, RON CAULEY, FER­NANDO DcROMANA, JACK DONOHUE '53 and AL MARKS '53. Me, too, Mac! Write to Neil at 2140 Bancroft Dr., MCAS Kaneohe, c/o FPO San Francisco, Calif. Also had a card from Sister MARION HOSINSKI, an MA grad of '54 (PJiD'W). Tlic good sister is nearby at the St. Louis U. Medical School and is she active! The letter discusses something very interesting, a group guidance series recently put out by Bruce Publish­ing in Milwaukee, The editor is Br. MARION F. BELKA '59. The handbooks and manuals starting with the ninth grade are called "Encounter," "Identify," ''Involvement" and "Commitment." Group dynamics and problem solving, etc, is finally getting into education which is another step forward. 
JOHN O'HARA MD, 3583 Greenfield. Los Angeles, Calif., is completing a residency in orthopedic surgery, and will soon go into private practice although he's undecided as to where. Just before Christmas, John's wife, Karen, presented him with twin girls, Kirslen and Stacey, to join their two boys. Merry Christmas . . . Ho, ho, ho! John reports seeing GEORGE WELSH on TV. George is a Marine infantry captain in Vietnam and was interviewed on TV. 
JACK REUBA, still a baclielor, lives at 730 S. Kingsley, Los Angeles, Calif. Jack has been in the investment business for six years since leaving Kalamazoo, Mich, He's now associated with the John Novecn & Co., Inc., and is a tax-exempt bond fund expert. Jack reports that JIM LOONAM has just moved to Palo Alto. Jim and his wife, Joan, have two children. Jim is regional manager for Costelio & Co.—3869 Grove Ct. Palo 
Alto, CaliL 
L^tly, I received a long overdue letter from ED SEIM. "Ned" and Sheila have two diildrcn and live in Wausau, Wis., where Ned makes and sells etc, etc., etc., quality windows for Crestline Co. 
I sure hope you have ordered your Purdue-ND tickets. We'll have our annual "Bigger & Better" Retmion Party immediately afterwards. Yes, they're playing football at ND again. 
Oh! Spent a weekend at the GEORGE HUB­BARD Ranch in Decatur, 111. George is big in Apaloosas. (Horses—that is!) Sometime get George to tell you about the night his mares got loose on a neighboring golf course. 
That's it, gang. Write. 
—MILTON J. BEAUDINE, Secretary 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 

1955 
PAUL FULLMER 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago, III. 60645 
As you know, the football ticket situation gets tougher each year. So, make it a point to send in for those Purdue tickets (the home opener) and attend the Class Reunion after the game in the Morris Inn. For those Easterners who arc just coming in for the Army game, we'll have an impromptu gathering on the porch of the Morris Inn after the game. 
^{ucho thanks to those that used the little reply cards to check in. JOHN PIMENTA gets the long distance au'ard, writing from Sao Paulo, Brazil. He's manager of Harza Engineer­ing Company's operation there, but looks for­\%'ard to heading back to the States next year. John's wife, Lira, came to the USA from India in 1959 and ihcy were married by Father HESBURGH in the Log Chapel. John and Lira became citizens in 1963 and made their home in Chicago until the present assignment. His address: Avcnida Paulista 2073, Sala 2201, Conj'unto Nacional, Sao Paulo. 
JIM PITCAVAGE reported in via the yellow card, too. Jim graduated from the U. of Pitts­burgh medical school in I960 and interned at Syracuse. He was an Air Force flight surgeon for two years, stationed at Las Vegas . . . hmmm? ? ? He returned to rittsburgh for a pediatric residency at Children's Hospital and finally opened a pediatric practice in Sewicklcy, Pa., last year. Jim has four children of his own. You can reach him at 447 Oliver Rd., Edgcworth, Sewicklcy, Pa. 
JOHN HOSI.NSKI wrote to say that after a coaching career in Chicago and Florida that he has retired to the "safe confines of the class­room." He currently is assistant professor of phy. ed. at Arkansas State College. John has three littfe gals. His maih'ng address is P. O. Box 957, State College. Ark. ALDO POTTETTI also is a teacher. He*s working in the North Babylon district on Long Island. Al (9 Boxwood Rd., 
P. O. Box 187, Port Washington, N.Y.) is looking for^v•ard to seeing many old friends at the .Army game in South Bend. 
BOB DEBREY has established his own design and development firm in &(inncapoIis. Bob formerly was head of design at the Product Development Center of IIT Research Institute in Chicago. The Dcbreys now have two children. Tliey live at 6928 Washburn South in Minneapolis. BOB D.AHLEN's lovely wife. Xannine, wrote to say that he is manager for Kelly Technical Ser­vices in Chicago, They've been married four years and have two boys. The Dahlen mail is delivered at 2880 Wcller, Northbrook. 
Lt. Comdr. PAUL KRIENKE used the card to report his current address: Staff, Com Fair Alameda, NAS. Abmeda, Calif. 94501. Capt. JOHN MURRAY'S new address is: 1st Battalion, 7th Marines, H & S Company (Co. Hdqtrs) Mar No. 13. FPO, San Francisco, 96601. It so.:nds like a little Vtctnam for toiigh "Little Jack." Lt. Comdr. JIM PHILLIPS can be reached at Navy Section. JUSMAG, APO, Nc\v York, N.Y., 09223. 
Ran into Father JOE O'DOXNELL at the retreat house on campt«. After aboctt 30 seconds, "Old Modesty*' himself said: "Would you believe tltat I smashed Ara in handball?" No! "Well, would you believe that I nipped him?" So help mc, he has witnesses. TOM WELLY and his wife were to be on hand for the same retreat, but all their kids came down ^^fith the chicken pox! Those are the breaks. Father Joe men­tioned that he had a nice visit with TOM O'MALLEY in Kansas City. He added that JOHN McCULLOUGH is the Walter Cronkitc of South Bend these days. Here's some current dope on a few others who abide within the shadows of the Dome—JIM HESBURGH, 1329 
E. Washington Ave.; DAN KISZKA, 3717 St. John's Way; JOHN JENA, 110 W. Colfax; TIP PATTON, 1235 Portage Ave.; WALT ZOTTER, 29511 E. Jefferson, St. Clair Shores, Mich.; and RUDY GENDER, 1781 Sloan Rd., Portage, Ind. 
DAVE METZ checked in with a new address— 7 Kirless Rd., Pittsford, N.Y. Dave tipped a few with JERRY PRASSAS and JOHN WEITHERS—"the merr>- bachelors"—while in for the opening of a Kf>dak exhibit at Chicago's Museum of Science and Industr>-. Another reason to take your kids to the best museum in the country. 
A TENTH AIR MEDAL was awarded to Captain Vincent L Folzarono '56 in March at the US Marine Corps Air Station, Beaufort, S.C, 
My old roomie, TOM DORWIN, couldn't 
resist writing; "We've got your weather in 
Austin (Tex.) today!!! .. . 8 inches of snow." 
Did I mention last time that I saw DICK 
HAIRSINE, now deputy comptroller for the 
^Vilmington Trust Co.? Got a note from JOE 
MADIGAN, who already is getting ready for 
the football reunion. He hopes that DICK 
BURKE, FRANK MAIER and JIM NORTON 
arc doing the same. Incidentally, Frank Maier 
just j"oincd the editorial staff of the Chicago 
Daily News where he will specialize in" political 
writing. Received a call from ROY BELKNAP 
who was general chairman for Detroit's UND 
Night. We swapped ideas and it looks like 
Roy has a real winning formula with Father 
Hcsburgh as the key ingredient. 
JIM BERGQUIST rolled thru town and passed 
his orals at Northwestern for his doctorate in 
history. He'll pick up the degree officially in 
June. Jim mentioned that his old history buddy, 
BOB KERBY, continues to dominate the 
"letters" column in the New York Times. 
Anotlier scholar, ARNOLD STOKES, has joined 
the math department at Georgetown. Seeing that 
picture of RAY KENNEDY (the writer) and 
Artur Rubinstein (the cover subject in Thfie 
reminded me of Mad magazine's famous line— 
"Suck in that gut, America." Ray, that New 
York life is just too easy for a hard guy from 
Ohio. 
Another '55cr has joined the President's Club. TOM KEWLEY left Inland Steel earlier this year to accept a position as associate professor of finance at DcPaul, having received hb PhD in finance from MSU. (Why there, Tom?) He also has organized Toley Fabricated Products Co. to handle sales activity for several light metal fabricators in the Chicago area. FRANK CUNNINGHAM, 5025 Bruceton Road, S.W., Roanoke, Va., is with the Gorham Silver Co. He has two boys and a girl. Other new eastern residents are: VERN BISESE, 217 Quincy Dr., Lcwttown, Pa.; BILL KREPS, 61 Hilb Point Rd., Westport, Conn, and TOM GALLAGHER, 142 Srompton Rd., Garden City, Long Island, N.Y. BILL GLASS is operating The Gift Gancr>-, 117 
N. 5th St., Columbus, Miss. ND was "integrated" before this year. Sister GLADYS ANN GIVAN SL '55 wrote to say that she received her MFA degree from Colorado last summer and had a Huntington Hartford art award to the Pacific Palisades Art Colony. She is now teaching in Colorado Springs; hopes to have an art show at Aspen during the Design Institute. If any of you artists would like to contact Sister, her address is 14 W. Bijon, Colorado Springs. 
AL COWLES' post card from Puerto Rico arrived the day I staggered home from work at midday with the virus to end all bugs. (I hated him!) He and Betty wrote: "What we won on the races we lost at the casino." Congratula­tions to HUGH SCHAEFER, whose engage­ment to Angela Gates was announced recently. 
DON PETERS, formeriy probate attorney for the superior court in Los Angeles, has moved into private practice under this shingle—Lawrence & Peters, 901 Whittier Blvd., Montebello, CaliL His home is at 140 N. 21st St. JERRY GROARK recently sent one of the most complex legal announcements that t have ever seen, and, if I read it correctly, he now is associated with the law firm of Hackbcrt, Rooks, Pitts, Fullagar and Poust in Chicago. (He'll probably change his mind after I get it down on paper!) 

1.
 Support your Class agent, GEORGE SHELTON. 

2.
 See you at the Reunion after the Purdue game. —PAUL FULLMER, Secretary 


1956 
ALVIN D. VITT 4 Windrush CreekrW., St. Louis, Mo. 63141 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 
BOB SIMKINS, 400 S. Douglas Street, Apple­
ton, Wis. 54912, assistant plant manager of the 
Humiston-Keeling Wholesale Drug Co., saw JIM 
FINNIGAN in Appleton in early February. Jim 
is a district mans^er for Bauer and Black, 
elastic goods division. Have you heard from 
either OTTO LIEBLE or PAUL ANSELAH? If 
so, let Jim know where they arc. Also in Apple­
ton for the Christmas holidays, was PETE HAN­
SEN who is stationed in St. Louis with the 
US Navy Intelligence Bureau. 
Coincidentally, I received a card from another 
Appleton, Wis. alumnus, JOHN GSCIflVlND. 
John is production manager of the Appleton 
Manufacturing Co. and lives at 319 E. Frands, 
54914, with his wife, Regina SMC '57, and fi\-e 
children. 
JIM PRICE has begun his lOth year of teaching in the public schools in CIe\*eland. Last August, Jim received a master's of education in special education from Kent State U. Hb first roommate on campus, JOE SIMONS, is a Holy Cross Father and Dean of Students at Notre Dame. 
Living at 284 Mason Ave., Rochester, N.Y. 
14626, ^vith his wife and two children b JOHN 
M. RODGERS. John is an accountant with a supermarket chain there. The Rodgerses are ex­pecting their third, June I, so John's reunion plans are indefinite at this uTiting. 
FRANK CICCIARELLI b practicing medicine in Springfield, 111. On Feb. 2, Frank and Terry had a son, Michael. Their address is 14 Long­bow, Springfield, III. 62704. 
It's hard for me to believe, but after tea years—a letter from JOE BILL! Shortly before writing, Joe along with MIKE KILEY, BOB CARRANE, BOB WELSH, PHIL KRAEMER, TOM DONOVAN and JACK CASEY attended MIKE NOONEY'S first high Mass. Back to our Class vice pre^dent—^Joe b married, and he and Grace, hb wife, have three boys and a girl. 5895 Washington Blvd., Indianapolb, Ind. We'll see Joe at the Reunion. 
JACK HAGAN was transferred by IBM to Birmingham, Ala.—^3536 Spring Valley Terrace, 35223—from Evansville, Ind., with Joan and their two girb. While vacationing in Orlaiulo, Fla., they saw KEN DAVIS and hb wife, Martha. 
Another surprbe! PETE CANNON! Ellen Anne and Pete had their fourth on Jan. t. They live at 1700 Red Oak Circle, Reston, Va. 22070. Pete has hurt my feelings for he, too, thinks 
ALUMNUS MAY }966 JUNE 
that Father TOM CHAMBERS, CSC, should 
take over as our columnist. (O.K., Tom?). 
Ncedham, Mass.—!97 Grccndale Ave., 02192— 
is the home of KEVIN JOYCE, his wife, Audrey, 
and three children. KeWn is tlic NCK England 
district manager of the Information Handlings 
SN-stems, Inc. of Denver. 
JERRY RYAX is in his second year of 
residency' in internal medicine at the Veterans' 
Hospital, New Orleans. Before residency', the 
Rj-ans (Jerr\*, Rose Mary and their four), 
spent three years in the Na\->'. Their address 
is 3905 Green Acres Rd., Metairie, La. 
Another MD writing from 102 Ridgcwood Dr., 
S^-ndcr, N.Y, is DON DONIUS. Don and his 
wife have two children. Don practices pediatrics 
in Williams\-ille. N.Y. 
After eight years with the architectural firm 
of Belli and Belli in Chicago, PHIL BRADTKE 
is now project architect with A. M. Kinney Assoc, 
Inc. in Chicago. The Bradtkes — 6780 N. 
Sax-ganash Ave., Chicago, 60G4&—have a one~and­
a-half->-car-old boy. 
BOB GULDE is currently a special fcIlo\\- in 
Gardio^-ascular disease at the Cleveland Clinic 
After graduating from Si. Louis LTs Medical 
School, Bob and his \t-ifc, Doris, moved to 
Denver for internship, then to Houston and 
Cleveland. Xou* the Guides liavc four children 
and soon will be in the US Na\Vs Department 
of CardioIos>-, US Na\-al Hospital. Bethesda, Md. 
DON BECHAMPS is director of markets, New-
Jersey' Depart, of Agriculture and lives with 
his wife, \'irglnia, and three children—51 Rhode 
Island Dr., Jackson, N,J. 
After graduation, P.AUL INEICH went to St. 
Louis U's Dental Scliool and now practices 
dentistry in Jacksonville, HI. His address is 12 
Brook Lane, Jacksonville. 111. 62650. Paul and 
his wife have a boy and girl—ND *80 fi: SMC '83! 
Another overdue, but ver>- welcomed letter 
arrived from the law office of D.\N DEVINE of 
114 South Woodu-ard, Birmingham. Mich. -18011. 
Dan ^v-as admitted to the bar in 1962; then, 
an assistant county prosecutor for two years before 
beginning pri^-ate practice. Dan and Barbara 
have five cliildrcn, the oldest of whom is five! 
Dan sees JERRY ROPERS frequently. Jcrr^­
is with General Motors, married and has two 
daughters. Another of .Alfred Sloan's heirs, 
JERRY McPARTL.^ND. has five children and 
lives in Detroit with his wife and gang. JIM 
OLIX is a stofJ^broker with MerriH-L>Tich in 
Detroit. JOHN BIRNEY, in Birmingham with 
Chance-Vought, is an engineer. P.\T COGAN 
is with Minnesota Mining in Detroit. Dan's 
roommate in Dillon, CLEM O'NEILL, is practic­
ing law in San Diego and living with his wife and 
three children. 
On a leave of absence from the Xerox Corp. is 
JIM MASON wJ)o is seeking a master's in 
industrial engineering in September from Penn 
State. Jim and Mar>* have three children and 
live at 149 Hillview Ave.. State College, Pa. 
Jim recently \-isited Lt. Comdr. ROBERT ^^L­
LE.V, his witc and four children, in Ne;** 
England. Jim will be taking final exams during 
our Reunion—sorr>' he can't make it. 
Can you believe that 10 years have passed 
since graduation? I know it's difficult for me 
to realize, but the proof of it all will be our 
lOth Year Reunion on June 10, II and 12. 
Hope you're planning on attending. 
—ALVIN D. VITT. Secretarv 
1957^ 
JOHN P. McMEEL 30 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y, 10017 
LEX DI GIACOMO has been spending the last seven years in Salt Lake City and accomplish­ing mi:cli. He is th= VP and gen. mgr. of the 
D.H. Overmyer Warehouse Co. The X\'-bascd outfit leases industrial space. Lcn is also starting the long political climb by recently being elected president of the Salt Lake County Young Republicans. He reports that skiing is great and that all fellow classmates should make it a point to drop by . . . RON LOREXZINI sends his greetings to all from sunny Italy where he is finishing his second year of a t^vo-year obligation with Uncle Sam. Ron is chief of obstetrics and gynecology at the US .'^rmy Hospital in Vicenza. He is just 10 miles west of Venice and the welcome shingle is out from the Lorenzini family which is made up of four little ones which includes twin daughters . . . Along the medical line we hear from JIM EGGERS who is also serving the good Uncle at Ft. Benning, Ga. Jim finished his three-year residency at Georgetown Hospital in DC and passed the first 
2S 
part of his medical boards last July. They have 
two children. Jim is interested in any news 
of JIM FLUKE and Doctors J. QUINN and 
DON SCHRAXDT. Let's hear fellows! 
GREG CORRIGAX has been with J. C. Penney 
for the past seven years and is the sales and 
merchandise manager of the Wausau, Wis., store. 
The Corrigans number six tots split evenly with 
three of eacli sex. Greg, who moonlights as a 
coach for the local grade school, has enjoyed 
great success since he vv*as instrumental in 
changing the school song to the tunc of the 
\^ctory Xfarch . . . Will relate TOM XICK-
XISH's note exactly as received: "Drafted Jan. 
12—Assigned to Turner .^FB, Albany, Ga.—will 
be in charge of Internal Medicine—BIG DE-AL— 
was in practice Iowa City in internal medicine— 
expecting number six in May—great planning!!" 
AVhat more can I add except good luck, 
Tom . . . 
NEIL ^V.\LLr\CE is with the Norfolk County 
Trust Co, a suburban Boston bank. His first 
child was bom last July and thc>* are now living 
in Canton, Mass. Dick reports that he sees 
MIKE COLLINS who is sales manager for Thor 
Tool and who was recently transferred from 
Boston to New York . . . AL PORTER is 
teaching and coacliing track at a Dartmouth 
(Mass.) high scIiool . . . BILL SQUIRES is 
track coach at Boston State College . . . TOM 
GUILFO\XE is running the Guilfoylc Insurance 
Agency in Fond du Lac, 'Wis. Tlianks Dick for 
all the news . . . ROBERT GALLA is with 
Bendlx Radio in Towson, Md. They have had 
number four and are living in Timonium, Md., 
outside of Baltimore. Thanks to his brother for the 
info. . . . DAMIAN G. VACCARELLA Is a 
financial analyst for Avco-Lycoming in Stratford, 
Conn. Damian is working for his MBA at the 
U. of Bridgeport. He is a short-timer now. He and his wife and number one are living in Fairfield, Conn. 
TOM FORTUNE is still making great money with and for Champion Papers, Inc in Omaha. He is now the sales supervisor and has been doing the same thing vvith four little ones . . . Recently saw STEVE PEXXEY in Park Forest. 
111. . . . Also received a card from JOHN DURBIN noting that he is being transferred to Cliarlottc, N.C. to head up a distributorship for Cummins Diesel (You know, the outfit made famous by a cert:iin amount of Grace) John will be leaving Seattle . . . Good friend, PAUL HEER, is the administrative service manager for CPS Industries at their Franklin, Tcnn. loca­tion. Paul was formerly with Arthur Andersen & Co. in Chicago but they just couldn't meet that demand of an annual $500,000 bills. Paul is fathering two and they do have a sweet mother . . . JOE RUSCH is working up in St. Paul for 3M with whom he has been since graduation. He heard from STAN KUSPER in Chicago and BILL BRANDON who is with Caterpillar in Peoria. JIM RICE received a fellowship at ITT in Chicago. Tlianks for the nev\-s, Joe. 
Faithful and loj-a! GEORGE GROBLE (wish wc had many more like him) reports that GERALD GERMAI was in Chicago in January. Gerry has his own business in Lafayette, La. in the wholesale carpeting field (we know of another Armenian rug dealer who has done quite well). BOB O'.VEIL has been transferred to Washington, D.C. to supervise the planning of a subway svstem. Tliis is the engineer O'Xeil. JOHN MCDONNELL has left the public defender's office to join the US District Attorney's staff in Chicago. RINK, JOSEPH by name, keeps defving the Vatican Council and has become the father of No. 5. If we could change the hierarchy in Rome lo the Republican Party we would have Joe in tow. TOM HUGUELET has recently been promoted to head a regional IBM sales office in Chicago. Kay and Tom added No. 1 to the stable. Thanks George for your assistance. 
It is now so easy for you classmates to use a little elbow grease and get off your fat fannv-s and tear the enclosed card out of the mag and mail it to mc with info of yourself and those you have seen. Have a little Class spirit. Thanks to those who did. Please remember in your prayers the mother of 0RLANT30 iLMONE who died of cancer, Feb. 9. Orlando is stilt baching it in Palo Alto and is cliairman of the board of the Palo Alto Communitv' Players. He is a man of many talents for he is also chairman of the Palo Alto Festival of Arts while still being a junior aixhitcct. If this Is not enough he is doing a little "mooning" on the side, designing sets for the West Bay Opera Assoc. You wonder why Orlando is still on the loose? What giri would be fast enough? DENNIS TURNOCK is now living in South Miami, Formerly he resided in Fori Wayne. Tough life .. . 
—JOHN McMEEL, Secretary 
1958 
ARTHUR L ROULE, JR. 1709 Indiana Ave., LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
JOHN JACHMAX's wife, Diana, writes to report that the Jachman's recently gave birth to twin sons, David Cyril and Thomas More. The new additions were welcomed by brother ^fatthew 
(4) and sister Jennifer (2). John has been with McDonnell .Aircraft in St. Louis since 1963, after receiving his master's degree at ND. The Jach­mans arc living in their new home at 8410 Lariat Dr., Hazelwood. Mo. 63042. 
ROGER TOUGAS, 3W Pond St., Avon, Mass. 02322, and his wife, Janice, became parents of a daughter, Michelle, in November, Roger also reports that AL PRAUGHT was married recently to Miss Eleanor McCourt in Brookline, Mass.; BOB MARR has been elected to the presidency of the Boston XD Club; and DICK MURPHY has recently opened a law office in Braintrce, Mass. Roger would like to hear from TOM SABO and STEVE SAVEENEY. 
RON FARROW and his burgeoning family have 
moved to 3660 Kline Dr. Xorth, Indianapolis. The 
family now consists of five daughters; thus, the 
need for expanded quarters. Ron's wife, from 
whom the foregoing news comes, also relates that 
DICK SMITH'S family has also grown to include 
five children—twin boys and three girls. Tlie 
Smiths reside at 704- Los Calindas Rd., San 
Raphael, Calif. 
ED HOURIG.AX is now an architectural rep­
resentative for Ou'ens-Coming Fiberglas, after 
having spent five years in the Xavy. Ed is married, 
the father of two boys and a girl, and is living at 
50 Moore Ave., Waldvrick, X.J. Ed hears occa­
sionally from JOHN CALLAH.\N, the ifURPHY 
twins, DAVE S.AXON, DAVE BUCKLEY and 
GEORGE ROZGON^. 
JACK B.\IR is married and the father of two 
children^ackic (3), and Patrick (1). He and 
his wife, Katie, live at 1772 Eisenhower, San 
Mateo, Calif., where Jack works for Reynolds 
Metals in sales. Tlie Bairs get together frequcntiv 
with Mr. and Mrs. CHUCK VANONCINI and 
Mr. aiid Mrs. JIM O'DOXOGHUE. Both Chuck 
and Jim live in San Francisco and have one 
daughter each. Jack would like to hear from TED 
LEY 
The P.^TRICK F. K.^NE family of 220 Dela­
ware, Buff'alo, N.Y., has a second daughter. Pat 
is president of the eastern division of Cit>' Planning 
Assodates, and is involved in urban redevelopment 
in the New York and Washington areas. Conse­
quently, he antidpates moving soon to the AVash­
ington area. 

MIKE GLEASOX's wife, Joan, informs us that the Gleasons are now living in Oswego, X.Y. (230 East Xinth St. 13126), and Mike is working for Walsh Construction Co. on the building of an atomic power plant. Tlicir family now consists of two children, the last having been bom oa the Gleasons' second wedding anniversary in April of l965. Number three is expected in Xfay. 
DON KE.\TING is district manager for Chevro­let, and living in Owosso, Mich. (P.O. Box 524). Tlic Keatings have three children and expect another in the fall. 
GARY COOPER, capi. USMC, at last word v\*as en route to join the First Marine Division in Vietnam. PHIL GAGNON is an account executive for WRAW-TV in Augusta, Ga., a division of the Rust-Craft Broadcasting Co. (for whidi BILL CHESSON also works, in Steubenville, Ohio). Phil and wife Nancy have two children—Dcnise 
(5) and Michael (3)—and live at II26 Craft St. N.W., Aiken, S.C. They are eager for word of JACK CARPENTER and STEVE DRAGOS. 
KEN HEINEMANN and wife Jean announce the arrival of Kevin Patrick, born Dec 15. Ken's address: 1228 Bdvcdcre Dr., Kokomo, Ind. JIM DANIELS—7009 El Passo St., Long Beadi, Calif. —and his wife, Bev, who must rate near the top of the Class of '58 productivity diarts, report the arrival of their seventh child. Tliat puts them exactly seven ahead of your secretary, who, as you know, remains single. The Daniels* distribution is four girls and three boys. 
FRED GEXOVESE, alwa>-s an excdicnt planner, arranged for the birth of his second son on Dec. 31, just in time to qualify for an extra income tax exemption. Commendations can be addressed to 49 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 

Fredric Dr., AsburyPark, N.J. 07712. BLASDEL REARDOX (84 Central Terrace, Wyoming, Ohio 45215) is the father of three sons—Blasdel Jr., Scan, and Christopher. The Reardons welcomed the newest arrival last November. Blasdel is man­ager of the Computer Systems Department of the Middlctown, Ohio, works of Armco Steel Corp. Recently, lie visited ujth PAUL UNDERKOF­FLER and his wife, Mary Margaret, in Dallas. Paul has established his own law firm in Dallas. 
NICK BARTOLINI. now living at 4427 Biddlc St., Wa>-ne, Midi., was recently promoted to a managerial position with the central product planning ofiice for European operations of Ford Motor Co. Nick and his wife, who is from Germany, have one son with another on order for delivery- this summer, DICK BIES—capt. USAF, Hq38TMW, Box 1889, APO New York 09530-\viII be married in May to Miss Jacqueline x\nn FLx SMC *59 in Mitchell, S.D. Dick is with the judge advocate general's branch of the Air Force, and will return with his bride to Scmbach, Germany, by way of the Balearic Isles. JACK CARPENTER (here's quick action on the inquiry by PHIL GAGNON) writes the following from Omaha. "I spent two years after graduation as an infantr\­officer with the Marines, most of whicJi time was spent at Camp Pendleton. During my scr\'icc hitch, I met Miss Mary Virginia Clapp and was married in August of 1961. I attended Fordham Law School, graduating in 1963, and have thence­forth, been practicing whh the firm of Matthcu-s, Kelley & Cannon in Omaha. We have one son and arc expecting another in November." 
Finally, let me announce, for the third time, our next after-game reunion. It is sclieduled for the Afahogany Room of the Morris Inn following the Army game on October 8. 
—ARTHUR L. ROULE, Secretary­

1958 Law 
JOHN F. MARCHAL Marchal & Marchal, 
116-118 W. 4th St., Greenville, Ohio 45331 
1959 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 2680 Lehman Rd., Apt. 42 Cincinnati, Ohio 45204 
The recent yellow insert-postcards have pro­duced quite a bit of ncv**s from our classmates. 
JAMES R. GILCHRIST wrote from Potts%-ilIe, Pa. (P.O. Box 424), where he Is the unit buying control mgr. for Sears, Roebuck & Co. Jim and Irene were married Aug. 28, 1965. Previous to this, he was a food scr\'ice officer in the Air Force. Jim sa\v JIM GARRITY, his wife, Andrea, and their sons, Jim and Tom, while the Garrltys were in from California visiting for the Christmas hoIida>-s. He saw BRIAN QUIXN in Philadelphia, and JIM GARGIULO at the Army game last fall. Jim hopes to visit the campus on his way to Utah this summer, when his brother, Tom, graduates from Brlgham Young U. 
Tlic ROBERT W. ARMSTRONGS announce the birth of their baby girl, Jill Ann. She has a sister. Sheila Marie, and a brother, Robert Jr. Bob is now employed as a chem. eng. with Chr\'s­ler Corp.—Cyclewcid Div. in Trenton, Midi. His home address is 1844 Newman Dr., Trenton, Mich. 48183. Also announcing a recent birth are Class Prcs. and Mrs. JOILN FRANKLI.\ H.-\Y­WARD. John Peter Hayward was born on Apr. 2, and joins his parents at 2701 Parkwood Ave., Toledo, Ohio 43610. 
AHKE KOHOUT writes from 3702 Trail Cir­cle, Boise, Idaho 83704 that the big news around their house is the arrival of their first son, Paul Micliacl Jr., on Feb. 7. Since graduation, Mike has been in the insurance business and now has his own general agcnc>' in Boise. He sees quite a bit of RICH CORNELL at Rich's cattle ranch, and DICK MARSHALL on Dick's potato farm. CARL BICK married a Boise girl recently and, according to Mike, was treated to a real Western wedding. The Kohouts used to see TIM McGAR-VEY every now and then when he flew to Boise to visit some accounts he had in that area. Finally, Afikc would like to hear any news we have on BILL WARDELL. Come on. Bill, write! Please? 
TO.M SWEENEY is now living in Stamford, Conn. (151 Courtland Ave., Apt. 5F), and has been working for Dean L. Burdick Assoc, (a phar­maceutical advertising agency) in New York for 
TWO ND ALUMNI are a part of a team responsible for the publication of a new paperback group-guidance series called "Being and Becoming" designed to assist adolescents in Catholic secondary schools in their search for identity. Bro. Marion Belka PhD *59 is the series general editor while ST. Marion Hosinski PhD '64 is one of four co-authors. The four volumes are entitled Encounter, Iden­titYr Involvement and Commitment. 
(Bruce Publishing Co.] 
the past eight months. Tom spent two years at the U. of Miami Med School and four years with Merck, Sharp and Dohmc as a hospital salesman. He has been married five years to Sue Fallon, a nurse from Boston. They have two boys— Chris (4) and Steve (3). BOB TURICCHI, his wife Rachel and son Robert Scott (2J4) are living at 15238 Midcrest Dr., Whittier, Calif. 906W. Bob works for the United California Bank and Is now the asst. mgr. of the South Santa Ana office. 
RICHARD KATIS recently saw JOHN ED­WARDS (who is finishing his second year of law at St. Louis U. after three years In the Na\-y), JOH.V BOYCE (who recently left the sen-Ice life) and TONY RIBxVUDO. This foursome plus JOHN REARDON (who works in the automation center of McDonnell Aircraft Corp) attended an ND Club smoker at the FalstafT Brewery. Dick is still at McDonnell and his wife, Mar>', is ex­pecting their second child in March. TIM GEORGE was notified in Fcbruar>' tliat he had successfully passed the CPA exam. Tim is cur­rently with Touclie, Ross, Bailey and Smart, a public accounting firm in Detroit. Also, in Feb­ruary', Tim and Barbara's first daughter was born. Julie Ann and her brother, Mark (I), live with their parents at 2330 Mcdford in Trenton, Mich. 48183. 
BOB SECKLER—688 Garfield Rd., Baldwin, N.Y.—is teaching world history at Westbury High Scliool on Long Island. Tlie Sccklers recently purchased a home In Baldwin and now have two children, a boy and a girl. Bob's father passed away suddenly on October 26, 1965. DAN CROS­SEN JR. has been transferred to the home ofiice of Bethlehem Steel Corp. in Bethlehem, Pa. On May 21, Bob married ."Xnue Shiebler of RockWlIe Center, N.Y., and a graduate of Notre Dame College, Baltimore, Md. JOHN McFADDEX was Dan's best man In this recent wedding. 
GEORGE C. SPAHN is now engaged in the general practice of law at 116-37 221st St., Cambria Hgts, N.Y. 11411. .ANTHONY S. CIARAVIXO has now become a member of the law firm of BeHanca, Bellanca and Bellanca, after having received his master's in law from NYU, spe­

cializing in labor law. Tony married the former 
Catherine Lauri In 1965. They arc the parents 
of a baby daughter, Helen Maria, who is six 
months old. Tony's address is 1200 First Natl. 
Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 48226. 
Since graduating, JIM HEIRTY has been em­
ployed by Chicago's Dept. of Public Works, 
Bureau of Engineering. At present, he is a resi­
dent-engineer on expressway projects for the city 
of Chicago. (All Chicago residents now know 
where to send their complaints, eh, Jim?) In 
February, Jim became a registered professional 
engineer in Illinois. Tlic Heirtys have their own 
home at 224 W. Natoma Ave., in Addison where 
their three clilldrcn—Karen (5), Sheila (3) and 
Patrick (1)—keep it very noisy. 
After completing tv»o years in the Na\*y aboard the USS Toledo and the USS Yorktown, ROGER L.\UR joined the Milwaukee office of Price Walcrhouse and Co. After passing the CPA exam, he left that firm to join the Internal Rev­enue Scr\'icc where he has been for the past tlirce years. Rog is on a temporary (two-year) assignment to the review staff, after which he will assume field agent duties. On Sept. 3, Roger will marry LaVeme Miodzik, of Milwaukee, a former high school classmate. 
Anyone fortunate enough to receive a very fancy letterhead bearing the name, **The Image Makers," will be hearing from none other than 
H. CRANE DAY (I only wish we could reprint the letterhead here). It is Crane's own design for his business which he has established at 3492 Twenty-Second St., San Francisco, Calif. 94110. He plans to manufacture (and design) fabric wall-hangings for sale in gift shops. For the past fc»** years. Crane has been on the faculty (if Michigan State U. 
^HCKEY SCHMITT Is still a resident of Cin­cinnati where he is with Cincinnati Builders. Mickey and Sue arc the parents of three children —Kathy, Dave and Juh'e. Mickc>- was present at last month's Cincy observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. JOHN FREY, PAUL NIK­LAS, ^^KE BRADY, DICK ROYER and your scribe were also present to feast and hear Ara discuss prospects for the forthcoming season. 
—JOE MULLIGAN, Secretary 

1960 
JOHN F. GEIER 1045 Linden Ave., Wilmefte, III. 60091 
From the Alumni Office: 
JIM TANSEY was released from the Navy a 
year ago and is now working for Esso Chemical 
Inter-.America. Jim can be reached at Aruba 
Chemical Industries N.J., P.O. Box 390, Oranje-
Slad .Aruba, Netherlands Antilles. Capt. JIM 
FOWLER has been awarded the -Mr Medal at 
Seymour-Johnson AFB, N.C., for personal brav­
ery and airmanship in the fight against Com­
munist aggression In Vietnam. CHARLES Mac-
MILLAN received a master of saence from 
Ohio State U. in March. 
JIM NEMECHEK, San Francisco, has been 
named .American Air Filter Company's "Out­
standing Young Salesman" for 1965. BILL 
CLANCY JR. has been promoted to financial 
staff assistant in the international department of 
Bxxter Laboratories, Inc. ^^KE SCHAEFER 
became the youngest elected member of the city 
council in San Diego's 200-year history. Mike 
says, ". . , am one of the very few city fathers 
in tlie country- that has to show an ID to pur­
chase a cocktail!" 
1961 
NICK PALIHNICH 34 Dartmouth Rd., 
W. Orange, N.J. 07050 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n "12 

I want to begin by saying "congratulations" to RICHARD CICCONE for his heroic achieve­ment and victory at the village of Thien Chank, South Vietnam. He was a\varded the Bronze Star and a gold "V " at Camp Pendleton, Calif. Since July 1965, TERRY HUTTON has been with a Na\'al advisory group In Vietnam as a communi­cations watch officer at the coastal surveillance 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
center in Vung Tau, RVX. This is hb second 
tour of duty in Vietnam. 
TOM "Waxy" ^\TIELAXD and his wife, 
Kathy, are enjoj-ing a stay in Germany, courtesy 
of the US Army. PETE REILLY is cnjo>^ng the 
Aloha state. The Air Force transferred Pete to 
Hawaii in September; I bet he doesn*t miss the 
Eastern weather a bit! ROBERT BARRON is 
now stationed at Ft. Knox; he expects to go to 
Germany in No\-ember. DON RICE is ser\Tng on 
active duty as an assistant professor of manage­
ment at the US Na\'al Post-Graduate School in 
Monterey-, Calif. VIC ROSAMILIA should be a 
captain in the .Army upon the publication of this 
column. JOHN GUERRE is in a town in 
Costa Rica, serving in the Peace Corps; he is 
the only American in the town. 
JOE FINNIGAN can't stay a^ray from good ole ND! He is back for his MA in art. MICHAEL 
C. FLYNN is now interning at Denver General Hospital. Mike married a girl from Arlington, Va., in September 1965. GEORGE O'CONNELL has left the Holy Cross Fathers to become a diocesan priest. He is presently in his third year of theology at Our Lady of Angels Seminary. 
Well, MIKE MORRISSEY is finally going to 
take that big step! He is getting married to Miss 
Martha I. Eckhoff of Cincinnati on August 20. 
ROBERT J. L0REX2 also gave up his bachelor­
hood for Miss Anne Rideant of Dallas, Tex. They 
were married in La Paz, Bolivia, on April 2. 
RONALD HUNDMAN, a self-employed CPA, 
has a family of two girls and a boy. JA^IES L. 
SHANAHAN is an account executive with First 
Nebraska Securities, a member of the New York 
Stock Exchange; he received his MBA degree at 
the U. of Detroit in June '63. 
WILLIAM "Bill" R. POGUE is working for the Rc>'noIds Metals Co. as a re^onal representa­tive in the "Desert Oasis" of Salt Lake City, Bill has kept in touch with such notables as NICK CHESTER, TOM MELBY and TOM GLOW, who are currently terrorizing the San Francisco Bay area. DON HICKEY is a ci\'ilian again with a four and a half-year hitch in the Naxy behind him. He is now with the Bell Telephone Co. of Fa. in Philadelphia. Since graduating from Michi­gan Law School in 1964, BILL FLORA has been working in San Francisco. He just passed the California Bar Exam and also received his CPA. JERRY COLLIGAN is completing work on a PhD in electrical engineering at the U. of Michigan. PAT CALLAHAN and family are enjoying their new home in Birmingham, Mich. They are HWng close to BOB YOUNG and his wife, Rene, who with their daughter, Lisa, recently moved into a new home in Southfield, Mich, 
JOHN ZAUGG is travelling in Spain, ". . . sampling its warm sun, its bitter olives and cherrj* squid, its sumptuous cache of art, and its dimly-lit pensions." LOU NEEB, his wife, Sharon, and their two children arc currently residing in the Washington, D.C., area; Lou is working for GSA and also has received a master's dei^ree from George Washington U. KENNY K^\TAT and his Carol have two children and have bought a home on Long Island. Kenny is doing research work for a sugar concern. JOHN CAVALIER, his wife. Donna, and their four little girls are residing in a suburb of Rochester, N.Y. 
JOE "Abuh" SAYOUR is following his true vocation in life as a S>Tian rug merchant in New York. DOUG MacLEOD has forsaken life in Carbondale, III. and has gone to the "second city." In between nights in Old Town, he has been xvorking for an insurance company. TIM KEOUGH has given up his uniform to study law at Georgetown U. 
Do you remember JOHN GISONT)!? A\Tio could forget him! He is currently a senior dental student at Fairleigh Dickinson, very dose to graduation. Word has it that JACK GENTEMPO was at the Waldorf prior to this year's Army-ND game. If it were Jack, he looks a lot younger than he did four years ago. DENNIS PENN^ hasn't died and isn't lost! lie is the personnel director of the US Pipe and Foundry Co, in Chattanooga, Tcnn. Denny and Jo have two daughters—Denise Jo and Virginl.1 Anne. JOE LIBBY is selling life insurance in Washington, D.C, and relates that he intends to make the Million Dollar Round Table this year. He fdt this alone was notable and worth passing on . . . good old Joe! 
DAVE KILROY still remains solidly single, but as old age creeps up, the pressure will cause him to crack. JOHN A. VALICENTI received his PhD in organic chemistry from ^Vayne State U. in June '65. He is now employed as a research chemist at Dow-Coming Corp. in Midland, Mich. RON LAWSON is holding a position with the lamp di\ision of the General Electric Co. in Cleveland. 
Congratulations to HENRI K. LESE on the arrival 
of a daughter, bom September 2, 1965. JIM LEE 
and his wife, AHda, have just welcomed their 
third child, Michad Joseph, bom January 21. Jim 
is working in Chicago for the \^king Freight Co. 
as a traffic representative. 
Diana Elaine made her debut on February 27 
to Mr. and .Mrs. JEROME .ALLEN WOLFE; 
congratulations Jerr\*. Jill Ann, the second child 
of JERRY SHELTON, was bom Fcbraar>- 3. 
First Lt. RICHARD E. LOCKNER now stationed 
at Marble Mountain, Da Nang, South Vietnam, 
will be the godfather bv prow to Jill Ann. On 
July 1, CHARLES BUCKLEY will go on duty as 
an officer in the US Public Health Service. His 
wife, Pegg>', daughter and thdr brand new son, 
Charles Edward, will accompany him. THOM.AS 
J. ENRIGHT is linng in Detroit. Tom has been blessed with three sons—Brian, Dan an John. ANGE MANES and his wife are quite happy as they are expecting a "bundle of joy" come September. 
BOB FRASER and BILL P.ARKER recently 
returned from a trip to Peru. The last part of the 
trip was spent in the Vilcabamba Jungle area 
where they shot some rapids on the Spurimac 
River, an upper tributary of the Amazon. Bill is 
now working as a systems engineer for Autonetics 
in Anahdm, Calif.; while Bob is working for his 
PhD in plasma physics at California in Berkeley. 
TOM LAMB is in Rome attending the American 
College for a degree in theology' and philosophy. 
BOB HUTCHISON married Louis Dacy shortly 
after he graduated from Fordham Law School. 
He is now in partnership in the firm of Hogan, 
Folk & Hutchison. 
Congratulations to CHARLES HOWARD. Charles plans on being married in September after his return from Germany. His bride-to-be is Prisdlla Edu*ards of Arlington, Va., who is presently a schoolteacher. Brother PASCHAL PESCE CSC is now in his fifth year at St. John's. He spent this past summer at Villanova U. work­ing for a master's degree in guidance and psjdiology. 
—NICK PALIHNICH, Secretary 
1961 Law 
JOHN N. MORELAND 
Bookin & Moreland, 2111/2 E. MainSf., Otfumwa, Iowa 52501 
1962 
TERRENCE F. McCARTHY 31957 Williamsburg, St. Clair Shores, Mich. 48082 
Alloy mates! I've received a good deal of 
news thanks to your response. 
GARY TOWNSEND and Miss Kathe Menick (Vassar '65) were married in June *65. The hone>'mooners spent the summer in London while Gary did research in the history of medicine. Gary will graduate from the Yale U. School of Medidne in June. GLENN HENDRY finished his tour of duty last summer and has since been li\"ing in St. Louis. The Hcndr>'s have a little girl and, just recently, a baby boy. Glenn passed on the news that PAUL LaLIBERTE and his wife, Ann. are expecting their first child this spring. JOHN W. GLYNN received his LLB from U. of Virginia and has been assod­ated with a San Frandsco law firm. John married Miss Barbara Anne Bachmann last Sept. 
4. AHCHAEL McSORLEY ser\cd as best man for the wedding. 
JERRY McKENNA, first lieutenant with the USAF, is with Security Ser\-ice at Kelly AFB in San Antonio. Jerry, his wife and the kids— Colleen, Michad and Patrick—will leave in June for Ana\%-a AFB, Japan. JAMES R. MURPHY is in Houston, Tex. working with Monsanto Engineering and studying for his MBA at Houston. Jim is still a bachelor and occasionally gets back to St. Louis. ROBERT CIHAK and wife, Dianne, were recently blessed with a baby girl, Christine Diane. Bob is finishing his third year of med sdiool at UCLA after spending a year on a pathology fellowship. HAROLD "HAL" STEARNS has his MA in history from the U- of Montana. Hal \%Tote his thesis on the history of Musselshell Valley and is presently a graduate assistant at Montana State U. 
PETER DEMPSEY sent on a newsy letter. 
Peter is still a bachdor and will be receiWng his MD from St. Louis this June. Then, Pete plans to take a general surgery internship at Duke's Medical Center in Durham. Others from the Class of '62 at St. Louis >fedical school arc TOM GADACZ, STEVE SCH\VARTZ and PAUL CARPENTER. TOM GADACZ is still a bachdor and will receive his MD this June. Tom then plans to take a general surgery intcmship at the U. of Chicago. STEVE SCinVARTZ and his wife now have five children. Steve will recdve his MD degree this June and then viill return to his native California, intern­ing at Los Angeles County Hospital. PAUL CARPENTER is married and is studying for a combined MD and PhD at St. Louis. RAY SHEA, who is finishing at Flower Fifth Medical School, will be interning at the U. of Michigan Hospital in Ann .Arbor. Ray and his wife have one child, 
Lt. JACK CASTIN recently returned to Hawaii after a five-month tour of the west Padfic Jack ser\'cd as the executive officer on the USS Sun­nadin. He will resume studies tou-ards his MA in dty planning at Oklahoma In June. Wedding bells are dose for Jack and Miss Patrida Mirfin of Leeds, England. MICHAEL KANE, after three years in the Marines and a tour of Vietnam, is working on his MBA at the U. of Caltfomia. ^like saj-s that California suits him fine. JACK REGAN is a CPA with Arthur Andersen In Minneapolis and is finishing his third year of law school at night. Jack, his wife, Carol, and their t\«'o daughters— Shau-n and Shannon—live in Bloomington. LOU SCHIRANO graduated from NYU Law School last June, passed the NY and District of Columbia bar and is presendy a first lieutenant with the Army. CHARLIE di GIOVANNA, wife, Kathy, and their two children are now living in Chicago after three years with the Army. PETE PACE married Miss Betty Ann Beaslcy last June and the good stork is on its way. JIM LOULA, wife, Carol, and their two diildren are lining in Rock Island, 
111. Jim remains active in teaching and coaching besides acting, producing and directing plays. GEORGE GAUTHIER and wife, Joy, were blessed recently with a baby girl, Pamela Lee. George will receive his PhD in chemistry- from the U. of New Hampshire this June, and will then go on active duty with the US.AF. PAT SHERIDAN received the Army Commendation Medal before his sepa­ration and is presently working for Peat, Nor^vich, Mitchell and Co. in Detroit. Pat and wife, Jane, now have three children with the recent birth of Kelly Jane. 
JOHN DAILY will receive his MD from the U, of Illinois Med School this June and will intern in California beginning in July. The Dailj^ had twin sons bom to them last October—Kevin and Scan. Lt. JOE HOFFMANN is a qualified submariner living in the Norfolk area. Joe and his wife, the former Jan Gradisar, are expecting their first child soon. RAY STEFANI received his master's in electrical engineering from the U. of .Arizona, and helped bowl the Arizona Varstt>* to the National championship. Ray, who is employed by Douglas Aircraft, is living in Santa Monica with his wife, the former Miss Val Bennington. JIM MIK,ACICH sends on a "hello" to his friends. Jim has left Germany and the .Army behind him and is, pres­ently, attending law sdiool in Sacramento. Wed­ding bdls will ring for Jim and Miss Barbara Jaksich of Sacramento this July. First Lt. RICH­ARD "Dick" CORSO may be making his career in the ser\'ice. Dick, who spent three years in Germany, is assigned with aircraft maintenance and is attached to the Transportation Corps in Saigon. 
GEORGE CANNON graduated from the U. of Virginia Law School in June and has passed the Virginia Bar. JOE BAROODY spent his three years with the Na\y in Puerto Rico. Joe is now living in DC and has three daughters. TERRENCE MCCARTHY graduated from the U. of Detroit College of Dentistrj- in April and is stationed somewherc(?) with the USN. 
NOTE: CLASS REUNION INFO WILL AP­PEAR IN FUTURE ARTICLES. —TERRENCE F. McCARTHY, Secretary 
1962 Law 
PAUL K. ROONEY Assistant U.S. Attorney Southern District of New York 
U.S. Courthouse, Foley Square New York, N.Y. 10007 
ALUMNUS MAY 196i JUNE 
Recent months have produced a rash of news. 
RAY BRO\VN, now residing in St. Louis, is 
looking fonvard to finishing his tour of Army 
duty in May 1965. He writes that he will then 
" , , . head to California with Bcv to spend a 
montli-and-a-half with her folks before taking 
our big step. We shall be going to Perth, Western 
Australia, for at least several years and, if u t like 
it well enough, it will be permanent. All details 
of the job arc not yet worked out. Will try to stop 
in Hawaii and sec Mac and perhaps even £D 
MALAPIT. . . " 
KEVIN LYONS has "come on down" and 
is now li\'ing in Pompano Beach, Fla. BILL 
SCHRIGER is keeping Northern Indiana advised 
on legal matters via radio. JI^t GOETH.\LS is 
doing labor-management work while residing in 
Sturgis, Mich., with Sophie and three sons. And 
as for yours truly . . . I've been in the criminal 
division of the United States .Attorney's ofHce since 
April 1965. 
—PAUL K. ROONEY, Secretary 
1963 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
Am happy to announce wc have a rather full 
mailbag to work from for this column, ^fa^y 
letters and cards were gratefully received, most of 
tlicm just after the last column deadline. 
CHUCK HARTMAX and wife, Mar>- Lou, have 
returned to Chicago after a tour in the Army. 
They arc the proud parents of a daughter born In 
Marcli. RONALD CI/\NClO and Susan Mary 
Walker were married in Westchester, 111., on June 
12, 1965. JOE GRANT and JOE D'ONOFRIO 
were in the wedding parly. Ron will receive his 
law degree from Northwestern U. in June. 
PETE PRICE writes that he has been transferred 
to Detroit by Union Carbide Corp. After leaving 
ND, he received an MBA from the U. of North 
Carolina. He and his wife. Geri, are the parents 
of a son, Robbie, born July 24, 1965. STEVE 
LAWLESS is in his ncxt-to-Iast year in the 
chemistry PhD program at Boston U. He writes 
that he recently attended the xvedding of FRANK 
MARTORANO in Columbus, Ohio, and also met 
PAT H.\LEY who is stationed at Ft. Rucker 
training to be a helicopter pilot. 
The Wew York Times carried the announcement 
recently that MICHAEL McCARTHY was engaged 
to Barbara Candee. Both are currently in PhD 
programs at Yale. JOHN OH.-\LA received an 
MS in linguistics at UCL.A and is now working 
toward a PhD. DON MATTZIE was married last 
spring to Nika Linarclli. Don is currently working 
toward a PhD in civil engineering at Carnegie 
Tech and expects to complete his studies in late 
1967. 
Lt. DAN XHLLER is in the US Air Force and is presently stationed at Mactan Island, Philippine Islands, flying C130 troop carrier aircraft in the Vietnam conflict. Dan is married and the proud father of a girl born one week after leaving for the Far East. DAN KILEY sends tlic following news, "TOM WILLIAMS was discharged from the Army in August, and is currently working for the State Dcpt. in Washington, DC. STEVE SEGURA earned his wings in the Air Force and is a co­pilot of a Phantom 11 lighter in Vietnam. ED STARK is living in Oklahoma City. Married last June, he is working for Humble Oil there. As for myself, I am married, and last week was made the proud new father of a baby boy." 
Received the following letter from First Lt. ED KENNEDY. "I was married two-and-a-half years ago to the former Kathleen Xeely. We have one child, James Edward. We've been stationed on Okinawa since October 1963 and will be learing during the middle of April. Our next base is in Texas, Dyess AFB in Abilene. I've run into a few classmates lately. PAUL KOHL was around a few months ago after a tour in Vietnam. Also, ED D^VYER was here. Currently residing with the Marine contingent here is CARL LUDECKE." 
DAVID F. SENG finished two years in the Na\->- last June and is presently an investment advisor at Continental 111. Nat. Bank & Trust in Chicago. JOHN T. DELMORE also just finished two years as an officer in the Na\y and is working in Chicago for Arthur Andersen & Co. PARLE BLAKE has announced news of his engagement to Alice Marie Malonc. JIM B.MLEY is now stationed with the Air Force at Adana, Turkey. First Li. JOHN Q. HALL is attending the Defense Language Institute studying Indonesian. He expects assignment to Southeast Asia shortly. ED Mt\R­
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
CATO JR. is a jet fighter pilot in the Vietnam 
theatre with a couple of dozen missions imdcr 
his belt. 
PAT HELLMAN has passed his CPA exams 
and is working in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He and 
wife, Lynne, arc parents of a daughter, Sharon, 
age V/z. Pat writes that he hears occasionally 
from JON WISEMAN and TOM McMAHON. 
Jon is in the Na^y and Tom was married to 
Ann Kaufman of Grand Blanc, Mich, in July 
1964. Lt. (j.g.) DAVID THO-MAS will be married 
on June II in Newport, R.I. to Paulctte Guthrie. 
Dave has just completed his third cruise off 
Vietnam on the USS Proc>on AF-61. TOM 
SCHRENK is working for DuPont in Niagara 
Falls, N*Y. Tom married Trudy Shcedt in August 
*6i and they now have one daughter. 
CHRIS LANE, TED PINTO and yours truly 
will (hopefully) receive LLB degrees from Ford­
ham, June 4. Others due to receive law degrees 
thU June include HAL SUNDERM.ANN (George­
town) and TOM VOLL.MER (Har\-ard). TOM 
JOLIE, wife, Judy, and daughter, Sara, have 
moved to LaPaz, Bolivia, where Tom is working 
for Catholic Relief Services. Tom can be reached 
through CRS, 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 
That's all for this issue. Please keep the letters 
and postcards coming. 
—FR..\NK DICELLO, Secretary 
1963 Law 
JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Legal Dept., Associates Investment Co., South Bend, Ind. 46615 
My thanks to DAVE HOSINSKI for most of 
the information contained in this report. Dave is 
trust officer for the St. Joseph Bank in South 
Bend. 
MIKE FEIDMIER left the Continental Bank 
at the end of the year and has joined the Pullman 
banking diain in Chicago. JIM SEARCY is still 
with Continental and now resides in Hinsdale, 111. 
FRANK ALVGGIO left South Bend a year ago 
last April and is presently working for Du Pont in 
their International Tax Dirision in Wilmington, 
Del. 
HARRY McKEE participated in the Legal Careers Seminar at the Law School on Feb. 15. The seminar was chaired by D.WE HOSI.VSKI. 
Congratulations arc extended to JIM LEKIN on having passed the New York Bar exam. PAUL DRISCOLL was in town over the Easter holidays and reported that the M.\LONES and POWELLS are doing fine. Incidentally, Bud was transferred to Fort Worth in -April. It looks like the end of the Cape for Malone. 
JOHN COSTELLO has finally become of age as a skier. His first time out resulted in nine stitclies in the forehead. According to John the second was more successful; however, he had a whole week in Aspen to recuperate before return­ing to work. 
The deadline for turning in a column for the August 7th issue is June 30. Let us hear from you. —JOSEPH R. SULLIVAN. Secretary 
1964 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 778 Coleman Ave., Menio Park, Cal. 94025 
1964 Law 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, 111. 60202 
The presses roll again and for this edition my pleas for mail have been satisfied. Your Io>-al scribe at last has an abundance of information to pass along. 
Word on the whereabouts of JIM CARROLL came from two sources, Jim's motlier and DAVE PETRE (who gets an award for the most letters written to this column). Mrs. CarroU writes that after practicing for a short time in his beloved Concord, **Mr. Bridge'* became asso­ciated with Uncle Sam's Navy and is now known as Lt. James E. Carroll. He is apparently en­joying his duties at his current station in Corpus Christi, Tex- (Full address: Staff Legal, CNAVANTRA, US Naval Air Station, Corpus Christi, Tex.) Dave, to whom Mrs. Carroll also wrote, seconds the above information. 
RUSS BLEY writes from St. Louts that he is enthralled with his job in the legal depart­ment at Monsanto Co. He is still a bachelor and liWng at home, and reports that he has received visits from BOB FROST and BILL FLAHERTY. Russ, also, had some flattering things to say about this column for which he also will get an award (in addition to being mentioned). Speaking of Flaherty, he recently reported that Russ will attend the spring social event in the "Windy City," to wit: the April 23rd marriage of JIM ZMIGROCKI and Marilyn Wawak. I, too, plan to attend and will furnish a report to you avid readers in the next issue. 
On June 18, in Des Moines, Iowa, wedding 
bells will ring for yet another of our classmates, 
one JOSEPH McDONALD. This news comes 
from two sources, also, namely, TOM KERN 
and MIKE RYAN. Tom is with the Indiana 
attorney general's office and is, also, engaged 
in pri\*atc practice at 11 N. Pennsylvania St. in 
Indbnapolis. Tom reports that CHARLIE 
O'MALLEY has suggested the Duke weekend of 
Nov. 11-12 as a reunion possibility, and further 
reports that ZARKO has reserved Howard John­
son's Green Room for Friday night. More on 
this as details become available. Tiring of the 
relative inactivity involved in reviewing files, 
MIKE RYAN asked for and got a transfer to 
an NLRB field office where he'll get some trial 
experience. He and Maria are now stationed 
in Peoria and, after April 15, will be living at 
212 Oak Cliff Ct. In that city. Mike's lengthy, 

interesting, and informative letter also advises 
that JIM MERCURIO narrowly abided being 
sent to Korea by the USA, and is presently 
out in FAKLER territory (Utah). 
The latest from the **new additions department'* 

is that the STEPANICKs have a daughter, and 
yours truly and wife have another young man. 
named William, in our house. If there arc 
any more new arrivals please let me know so 

that you, too, can be in print. 
Because of space limitations I w*ill bid you 

*'adieu" until next edition. Happy spring to 
everyone and don't forget to drop a note ' (even 
a post card will do) to your scribe so that I 
can put it in our little pipeline. 
—THOMAS F. CONNEELY, Secretary 
1965 —^ 

JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, Ohio 44514 
TIM MURPHY is studying for His MBA in finance at the U. of So. California. His extra hours arc budgeted so as to permit some disc jockeying for KUSC-FM and some part-time accounting for Stores Research Corp. P.\UL GE.\RY is working with McKesson & Robbins Inc. in their industrial chemical sales department. He hopes, also, to enter grad school next fall. Paul and his wife arc expecting their first child this summer. JOE DiGREGORlO and his wife, Frances, are also expecting their "first," 'ate this summer. Glad to sec we've got such a productive Class. (Now seems an appropriate time to remind everyone that it is still not too late to sign up for our Class of '65 Scliolarship Fund.) Joe is working on his PhD in chemistry at Penn State. 
JOHN HUARTE was married to the former Eileen DeVine in New York on Apr. 16. John will be living in Boston while playing w^ith the Boston Patriots. JIM LONGE is working for the National Bank of Detroit as a credit analyst. Jim is spend­ing his evenings at Wayne State U. working on a MBA. Second Lt. P-\T McDONALD has finished basic training in the Marines and is currently engaged in tank training in California. LYSLE SH.MV was recently engaged to Carole Ann Thuer. 
Sister MARY CONSOL.\TA KUNKEL CSFX has been appointed as submistress of novices at the mother house in Rome. Sister Mary Consolata's new address is Via Nararet 400, Rome, Italy. Second Lt. TOM FEDOR has been stationed at Scwart AFB (Nash\-ille, Tenn.) since November as the asst. ofliccr-in-charge of the liata processing department. Tom writes that life in the ^ r Force and in Nashville has been most pleasant. GERALD MILKIE was married in April to Maura Carrico of South Bend. Jerry and his wife are entering Peace Corps training in June, after which they will serve two years in Turkey. He also will receive a BS in ME this June to complement his AB engi­neering degree. 
THOMAS BELLEAU was engaged to Judith Sheehan in February. Tom is working on an MBA in finance at NYU. Second Lt. DAVE SCHLACH­
31 
TER has been in pilot training at Laughlin AFB, 
Tex., since September. Dave was first in his class 
of 60 to solo. He h.TS quah'ficd la the T-37 jet 
trainer and is now flying the supersonic T-38. 
Graduation and wings arc scheduled for this 
September. Dave writes that he saw SAL 
LEVAXTINO and ED KELLY at t!ic U. of Texas 
where both arc in law school. WIS XORRIS ts 
working on an MBA there. Army Second Lt. JIM 
PAVLICEK was also present for the impromptu 
reunion. Jim is in Armv helicopter training at 
Mineral Wells, Tex. TERREXCE McWILLIAMS 
is in law school at the U. of Miami (Florida). 
Terry has decided to practice there. Tlie sun and 
surf arc hard to pass up for those Chicago winters 
lie's used to. 
JOHX RYXELL is with Touchc, Ross, Bailey 
& Smart in Chicago. Army Second Lt. JOHX 
SCHXEIDER was married to Marilyn Schlachter 
in May. John is headed for a tour of duty in 
Germany. Army Second Lt. JI^t GRACE was 
married to Lclitia Jean Stii'cly in April. Jim is 
stationed in Jolict. 111., as a finance officer. 
ROBERT KOHLS is an engineer at the Boeing 
Development Center in Seattle. 
JIM BLUE was commissioned an ensign at 
IVnsacola in March. He is now in the Xa\-y's pilot 
training program. Jim has also found time to 
become engaged to Ruth Sheard. JIM MAHOOD 
received an ensign USXR commission in December 
at Newport, R.I. Jim is now stationed on the USS 
.America, the Xavy's newest attack carrier in the 
Mediterranean. JERRY DAUGHERTY is at Camp 
Lejcunc, N.C., doing his sl\-monlIis active duty 
with the Marines. Jerr\- will enter graduate school 
in September specializing in marine science. DAVE 
SCHOEXECKER is in the MBA prnernm at 
Marquette U. while ser\-ing as a dormitory* coun­
selor. PETE CULLEX Is stationed in Xcwport, 
R.I., serving in the X'av\- CCS program. 
ED ARMENTO and OWEX DOWD arc in the 
Marines. BOB C.AR"^* is in the Peace Corps in 
India. BILL GRACE is studving medicine at 
Boston U. H.\RRY PIERCE is in medical school 
in Italy. PETE BRODERICK is attending Ford­
ham Law School. Army Second Lt. PETE VIN'­
SOX arrived in Saigon in ^farcli to ser\'e with the 
524th Military Intelligence Detachment. Pete is 
engaged to Kathern Thysell of Cincinnati. Air 
Force Second Lt. JOHX PESTK-A has been ap­
pointed officcr-in-charge of the civil engineer 
support section at Robins AFB, Ga. .Army Second 
Lt. KEVIX REGAX is undergoing training at Ft. 
Sill, Okla. Army Second Lt. J.AMES R. KELLY 
is stationed at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo. (HDQ 
64th Q.M. Bn.). 

Ensign THOMAS P. McGIXLEY was married in April to Audrey Van Ostrond of Bethlehem, Pa. Tom is stationed on a dcstrover at Boston Xa\,-y Yard. W.\RREX E. RICHESOX MS Math is an analyst for General Electrlc's computer dept. at Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsvillc, Ala. Warren is also a part-time math instructor at the 
U. of Alabama. G. D.AVID LEDXEY PhD Biology received a grant for postdoctoral study in radia­tion biology from the Dept, of HEW. Dave is in the Netherlands for a year's study and work at the Radiobiological Institute in Rijsurijk, and was married to Anna Hanchar of Mishawaka. LEXXY WILTBERGER was engaged to Judy Meyers. They plan an August wedding. Lenny lias received a research assistantship for the remainder of his MB.-\ program at State U. of New York at Buffalo. 
—JAMES P. IL\RXISCH, Secretary 

F.S. Flan to attend the Class Reunion following the ND-Purduc game, Sept. 24. Details will be provided in subsequent columns. 
1965 Law 

JOHN A. HAUTER 1050 Indiana Ave. Glenwood, III. 60425 
First things first. Please note the new address. Wc just bought a home here in Glenwood and at the risk of sounding proud, I must say it's beauti­ful! It is a four-bedroom. mulli-lc\*el with all Janet and I ever wanted in a home. It is so spacious that our paltry furniture looks lost in it. Enough about us. . . . 
Wc must be part of the *'in crowd" now! The KRUPXICKs called us on (wouldn't you know it) St. Patrick's Day. Unfortunately. I wasn't home but Janet tells me that Jon's **hot-linc" is really working overtime. TIic\-'ve recently spoken to Sue and JIM LEOXARD in Phoenbc, Ariz., and Jackie and MIKE FARRAR w*ho are supposedly displeased with New- Orleans 
Wc received a letter from Jane and BILL BISH who tell us tliat Bill is in legal assistance at Ft. 
Meade and that he's really busy drawing up wills, 
separation agreements, PO.Vs, divorces, etc They 
claim iJjcJr life on the base is really exciting .. . 
alwa>-s something big happening! 
Via the Bish epistle we learn that "Tex** 
DUTILE is rarely home—gone for two and three 
weeks at a strctcli. Last word was that he ^^•as 
in yUsshsipph 
Wc hear that BOB KEXNEDY is working as 
defense counsel at Ft. Meade. No other info on 
him except that "Bobbie" is IiaWng great fun 
furnishing their "off the base" apartment. 
What's with the nomadic BOITELs? Docs any­
one know wliat the story is now? Wc can't locate 
the new address. How 'bout it, Henr>*? 
Wc were informed that the LAWLERs are in 
love with New York. ^Ve always knew they ^%•crc 
big-city material. 
ADDRESS CHANGES 
MIKE FLAHERTY, 110 Bloomfield, Buffalo, 
N.Y. 14220 
STORKLAND SURPRISES 
The L.\WLERs arc expecting soon but our spies 
don't know when. 
Tlie BISHs plan to **de-throne" Micliael in 
October. 
—JOHN A. IL\UTER, Secretary 
1966 
RICHARD ANGELOTTI 1404 Greenfield Dr. Erie, Pa. 16512 
The mucli anticipated day has nearly arrived, and anxious seniors arc busily preparing for the wonderful day of June 5th. It certainly doesn't seem like four years since we entered the Uni­versity as bewildered, starry-eyed freshmen. 
The professions will claim a large part of the Class of '66. TliDsc contemplating on balancing the scales of justice are: Pat Casbill, Pete Carey, Gordon Nash, Mike McKim, John Wetli, Jay McGowan, Ed Calior, Jerr>- O'Meara, John Philipps, Mike Donohue, Max Graham, Jamie ToohcYj John Buck, Pat Linskcy, Joe SommcrSf Tony Ririzzigno, Bruce Vosburg. Paul Walker, Barry McNamara, Jim Murray. Harr^* Long and Cole Clark. Among those choosing the scalpel arc: Andy Ippoliti, Jim Davcy, Jim Murphy. Dick Fleming, Dick Sulli\'an, John Fry, Pete Budetti, Jolin Schwartz, George Bernard, Jim Curran, Ed O'Connor, Mike Stoltz, Denny Gray, Jerry Hcrsch­feld, Tom Hughes, Tom O'Connor, Pat Tedford and Terr>* Forrester. 
The countr>''s business schools will be augmented by the following students: Dave McSorley, Montcl Brundagc, Pat Danahy, Tom Gartner, Tom Bel-don, Gene TuUy, Bill Jamieson, Tom ^fcManmon, George Rentschler, John Ca\-an and Ray Neihengcn. The engineering field will be enriclied with the following minds: Bud Edinger, Tcrr\- Golden, Mike Geist, Norm DcWitt, Ed Dean, Joe FamigHetti, Joe King, Kevin Daly, Paul Scssa, and John Wallerius. 
Those classmates going on for master's degrees in their undergraduate fields of study include Paul AUr, Jay McDonald, John Swancr, Bill Scanlan, Tim Gunn, Tony Andrea, Skip M>4lcnski and Keith ifan\il!c. 
Returning to ND to continue their studies in a \-aricty of fields are Bill O'Donnell, John Cheshire, Joe Spak, Dave Zangrclli, Pat Cooncy, Harr>* ^icDonagh, Jim Starshak and John Bishko. 
Those doss stain-arts going to work for Uncle Sam include Bob Grotty, Tom Gorla, Paul Fic­berg, Bob R>-an. Tico Fole>', Bob Schmitt, Mike Boone, Norm Findlay, Mike Mooney, Dick Mc­Carty and Chuck Steiner. 
These are just some of the many tutures originating from the Class of '66. Ours is a class of much promise and one, I'm sure, that will prove an outstanding asset to the University. 
I would like to take this opportunity to ask all of you to stay in touch, even though after grad­uation we w*ill be great distances apart. Area representatives have been cliosen to find out infor­mation and to keep us all in toucli with each other's actiritics. You can find your representative's name and address in the .\lumni Dircctor>', or you can send your information directly to mc at 1404 Greenfield Dr., Erie, Pa. 
Please let us know what has Iiappencd to you or to anyone else you know about who was a member of the Class of *66. By keeping in touch and relating tliesc events, the friendships and memories wc enjoyed while here as students can be shared in our roles as alumni. Let's keep the Class of *66 as united after graduation as it was before wc entered the ranks of Alumni. 
—RICHARD ANGELOTTI, Secretary 
T
HE Law School's annual spring symposium, April 16, was de­voted to "Poverty and Justice." Orison S. Harden of the New York Bar, president-elect of the American Bar Association, presided over the sessions. Assistant Dean Thomas F. Broden Jr., who is a consultant to the Office of Economic Opportunity, was chairman and addressed the symposium on the role of law schools in providing legal assistance to the poor. Other speakers included Sen­ator Birch Bayh (D-Ind.); E. Clinton Bamberger, director of the OEO Legal Sen'ices Program; i\Irs. Jean Cahn of the District of Columbia Bar, Associate Dean A. Kenneth 

bw sdMl 
Pye, Georgetown University Law Center; and William Pincus of the Ford Foundation. 
The Symposium followed closely the announcement of the OEO that it would fund, in substantial part, a neighborhood law office in South Bend. The program will include the present South Bend Legal Aid Society office; also, two new at­torneys vnU. be hired. Professor Conrad L. Kellenberg will direct the program vrith the assistance of both attorneys and Edward Hilgendorf '60L, the present legal aid attorney. Prof. Kellenberg wU also conduct a Law School program which will give students an opportunity to work in the neighborhood law office. 
j\lr. Bamberger noted in his ad­dress that the Notre Dame proposal to the OEO, which was drafted by Assistant Dean Broden and Professor Kellenberg, was a model of its kind and has been recommended by his office to other law schools through­out the nation. 
Law Day Honors Banquet. The Law School's 13th Annual Honors Ban­quet was held May 1 at the South Bend Indiana Club. Speaker for the affair was Edward W. Kuhn, presi­dent of the American Bar Associa­tion, who talked about today's ob­servance of Law Day as a direct counterbalance to the traditional Communist international celebration of May Day. 
His appearance marked the ninth consecutive year an ABA president has addressed the local Law Day observance. Also present was Indi­ana Congressman John Brademas. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 

The banquet also served as the Law School Honors celebration at which both faculty and students indulged in the traditional roasting of Law-School personalities. 1965-66 Bar Examinations. James J. Leonard Jr. '65L, winner of the Law School's 1964 Moot Court competi­tion, received the highest grade in the February, 1966, Arizona Bar Examination. Leonard, who was ad­mitted to the Arizona Bar shortly after the examination, is a law clerk in the Maricopa County Superior Court. Seventy-six law graduates took the examination; 41 passed it. 
Leonard is one of 37 members of his class who passed bar examina­tions on their first try. In New Jersey, where 57 per cent of all ap­plicants failed the examination, both ND graduates—Michael Bishko and Richard Catenacci—passed. All four ND men who took the Ohio exam­ination passed, although 24 per cent of the applicants failed. In Indiana, all nine ND applicants passed and in Michigan aU. four ND applicants passed. 
Employmenf Seminar. In March, the Law School and the Chicago Region of the US Civil Rights Commission sponsored a four-day executive sem­inar in the University's Center for Continuing Education on "Attraction and Employment of Minority Group Talent." Seventy-five government oflScials attended; speakers included ND President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC; Joseph A. Conner, regional director of the Civil Service Commission; Dean Broden; Dr. Richard Lamanna of the University's Department of Sociology; Coach Ara Parseghian; and- several local and national civil rights leaders. Legal Aid and Defender Association. Thomas Farrell, a second-year stu­dent from Cambria Heights, N.Y., 
was elected 1966-67 director of the Legal Aid and Defender Association. Richard Muench, Wilmette, Dl., was elected assistant director and Gary Kaup, Hamilton, Ohio, associate director. The Association gave its first annual Michie Book awards, for outstanding participation in the program, to Messrs. Muench, Far­rell, Kaup, John Fine—the outgoing director, and Arthur Swirtz. Faculty. Professor G. Robert Blakey '57 & '60L has been appointed to the advisory board of the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice. He also will act as a special con­sultant to the Commission on prob­lems of organized crime. This sum­mer he will join James Vorenberg, director of the Commission, for an investigation of organized crime. Prof. Blakey, an instructor of criminal law and procedure as well as courses on property, has for the past two years offered special sem­inar programs to both second and third-year students on criminal law problems. 
Rev. William M. Lewers CSC has been appointed to the Indiana Ad­visory Committee to the US Com­mission on Civil Rights. By special request, he is also working with the Chicago Regional Office of the federal commission and wiU spend part of this summer—as he did last summer — in Mississippi. The ND affiliate of the Law Students Civil Rights Research Council which Father Lewers serves as advisor, has arranged for the placement of 10 ND law students in summer civil rights projects. 
Prof. John T. Noonan Jr. spent April and May in Rome, working on his Guggenheim research study of Church procedure in matrimonial cases, and assisting the papal com-
POVERTY AND JUSTICE SYMPOSIUM Participants Bamberger, Pye, PincuS; Cahn, AAorden and Bye. 

mission studying problems of popu­lation and birth control. At the in­vitation of Cardinal Suenens, he participated in the annual colloquy at Louvain (Belgium) in May. He expects to visit the University of Cracow (Poland) for talks there sometime in September. 
Prof. Bernard J. Ward has been appointed visiting professor at the University of Texas School of Law for the coming summer session. 
The promotion of Assoc. Prof. Thomas L. Shaffer '61L to full pro­fessor was announced in May. Alumni Notes. Prof. John E. Kennedy '59L, who is now a member of the law faculty at the University of Kentucky, is the author of "Judge­Jury-Counsel Relations in Ken­tucky," in the current issue of the Kentucky Law Journal. Prof. Ken­nedy was a reporter in the Seminar of Kentucky Circuit Judges held in 1964. 
State's Attorney J. Stanley Brad­bury '23L of Robinson, HI., died May 2 in St. Louis, Mo., where he had been a patient for three weeks. Mr. Bradbury, a long-time practi­tioner in Robinson was past presi­dent of the Illinois Attorney Associa­tion and former president of the Illinois Big Brothers and Sisters Association. 
David C. Petre '61 & '64L is the author of "Statutory Copyright Pro­tection for Books and Magazines Against Machine Copying," an essay in the ASCAP Copyright Sympo­sium, 1965. It won for him first place in the ND competition on copy­right papers that year, and honor­able mention in the national com­petition. He is a patent attorney for Xerox Corp. in Rochester, N.Y. 
Captain George A. PeUetier Jr. '61 & '62L is co-author of "A Compara­tive Analysis of Civil Law Succes­sion" in the Winter 1966, Villanova Law Review. Capt. PeUetier is now serving as an instructor in the Army Judge Advocate General's School, Charlottesvnie, Va. He is a member of the Texas Bar and will begin teaching as assistant professor at the Southern Methodis t University School of Law (Dallas) this fall. 
Franklin A. Morse H '64L and John T. Mulvihill '65L have been employed as associates in the South Bend law firm of Dare, Thornburg, McGill and Deahl. Morse has been law clerk to US District Judge Robert A. Grant since his gradua­tion; Mulvihill practiced briefly in Grand Rapids, Mich., before return­ing to South Bend. 
by THOMAS LSHAFFBl 
.^r^-2= ^-::'.v-;51;'*?^^ 
jN^ifilDAhloF 
^miDDESSA-l^l' 
IpAl'MSBEAGH fCOUNlW-rifB^STERN;:MASSAGHUSE^5i 
^^^l5ALi^i|i^:^N|^SJ^ii 

l^j|oyTBtGENTR>fie\^|SigO^^ iW^©pJgfelMJ'GRIGAN'i ^TR 
i^0S^S^FFMO^ABURlileTt3^GAt^MEr|^^^ lljERSEJf^ ' • ||.G©tUMBUS!^C<5NblEaiGUT4VALLE>ft«J'DA^^ai^M©l iliiail^lSfC6<STERNslNDIANAv5'?.EA'STERN|lci^^^ 
VIRGir 
DECATUR • DELAWARE 

so • ERIE • FAIRFIELD COUNTY FLINT 
^APIDS AND WESTERN MICHIGAN ' GRE )LIS • JACKSON • JERSEY SHOR^ McHEJ^JRY COUNTY • MAlN^^^i 
\LLEY •,MONONGi#tLA vl 
Ogiai^N%MQCTJ 

w  
..cE •  MlSSlf  
.^W MEXICO  •j'fM  
„.sD • NORTHWEST^A-'l^l!  
>L  .lAC H  COUNTY  • PANA M  
\Nu  ,,t:RN  MASSACHUSETTS •  ROCHC^rSV  
PETEi  ..rtPA • SALINA  • SAN ANTONIO • SAN DIB  
TH CA. ,^iNA • SOUTH CENTRAL WISCONSIN • SOUTH JEI  
lO  • TOP OF MICHIGAN • TRI-CITIES • TRIPLE CITIES • TRI-*­ ...;jrv:,:'-;A  .  
N  • ALABAMA • ALASKA • ALBANY • ATLANTA  • AURC  ^.,  ^ .  -AWA.T '  DtryVER  •  
TT • BOSTON • BUFFALO • BURLINGTON  • CALUMET Dir  .-AIRFIELD  COUNTy  • FLINT •  

\L JERSEY • CENTRAL NEW YORK • CENTRAL PENN' *. • COLUMBUS • CONNEaiCUT VALLEY • DALLAS ' ILLLINOIS • EASTERN INDIANA • EASTERN KAN' LLEY • FOX VALLEY • GOGEBIC RANGE • GOLD THALAND • HOUSTON • IDAHO • IDAHO '' LANSING • LEHIGH VALLEY • LITTLE ROC SON • MIDLAND-ODESSA • MILWAUKEE "•W HAVEN • NEW JERSEY • NEW MF •-'ANA • NORTHLAND • NOP "^ALM BEACH COUNP' 
• MASSACHUS. 
SAN AN -croN­
"-^'k 

ESTERN MICHIGAN • GREATER JERSEY SHORE • JOLIET • KALy ' • MAINE • MANILA • MANSFl; 
)NONGAHELA VALLEY • MONRC / • NORTH CAROLINA • NORTH D. ,-110 • OHIO VALLEY • OKLAHO U • PHILADELPHIA • PHOENIX • PR ^ VALLEY • ROME • SACRAMENTO ERNANDO VALLEV • SAN GABRIEL V COUNTY • SOUTHERN T|ER • SPOKA SA • TWIN CTIES • UTAH • VIRGINIA ^LTIMORE • BATTLE CREEK • BENGAL • E. )N • CEDAR RAPIDS • CENTRAL CALI r VIRGINIA • CHATTANOOGA • CHICAG' 
ECATUR • DELAWARE • DENVER • DES Mi, JE • FAIRFIELD COUNTY • FLINT • FORT L ,D WESTERN MICHIGAN • GREATER MIAMI -• 
^J N • JERSEY SHORE • JOLIET • KALAMAZOO­OUNTY • MAINE • MANILA • MANSFIEL^. ­' • ONONGAHELA VALLEY • MOr " "^ ^ RTH CAROLINA • N . VALLEY 
X-. 
• BtMx_. 
'FORNIA • Lc.,.. 
^GO • CHILE • CINCINNAii ­cS MOINES • DETROIT • WASH rORT LAUDERDALE • FORT SMIl dR MIAMI • GREEN BAY • HAMILTOi 

KALAMAZOO • KANKAKEE • KANSA m -./AlANSFIELD • MEMPHIS • MERRILL • MEX ' '^ MONROE • MONTANA • MUSKEGON • 
NORTH DAKOTA'NORTH FLORIDA • N OKLAHOMA CITY • OMAHA AND COli ,fJf)ENIX • PIONEER VALLEY • PITTSRi"'GH •' 
•':RAMENT0 • SAGINAW VA'- JOSi 
ilGABRIEL VALLEY • <:'- 9A ER • SPOKANc ^ 
m

^' yiRf^" 
ABU IRFF 
tRTOl )7\CRA'MfcN f u ' • •yAtaiixrrw VrM-t-CT/-. —-y T i- j^^^^:. ,./VALL, 
J^N GABRIEL VALLEX;,* SCHENEQADY • SCRANTON •­
TIER • SPOKANE • .TERRE HAUTE • TIDEWATER • TIFI p,'lA.'i- VIRGINIA v WEST-CENTRAL CALIFORNIA • WESTE |^C*K • BENGAL:.*,BERKSHIRE COUNTY • BERRIEN COUNTY­
CENTRAL CALIFORNIA • CENTRAL FLORIDA • CENTR. 
30GA 'CHICAGO • CHILE 'CINCINNATI •: CLEVELAND . pENVER'DES MOINES'DETROIT ' WASHINGTON, DC 'IP FLINT ' FORT LAUDERDALE ' FORT SMITH • FORT W, '•GREATER MIAMI 'GREEN BAY 'HAMILTON • HARRISBUR 
I../.I 
3A­: m ' KALAMAZOO ' KANKAKEE ' KANSAS CITY ' KENi , • MANSFIELD • MEMPHIS • MERRILL • MEXICO CITY ' MIC y • MONROE ' MONTANA ' MUSKEGON • NASHVILLE:' i ' NORTH DAKOTA • NORTH FLORIDA ' NORTHERN . ' OKLAHOMA CITY ' OMAHA AND COUNCIL BL' HOENIX • PIONEER VALLEY ' PITTSBURGH • PUERT ;^<RAMENTO • SAGINAW VALLEY ' ST. JOSEPH:' ^^•liELWALLEY;"' SCHENECTADY'. ', SCRAN'^ """%E • JERRE .HAUTE '...-TIDEWAT "^"•^^CEOTf^L CALIFORN^'' 
"""^LWTY • BERl^ "'"'•^Al;:Ft/ T TNIVERSAL . Notre Dame Night 1966—believed 

^ ^ by many to have reached unprecedented heights in alumni participation—was brought to a conclusion May 12 in Atlanta, one month after the year's in­augural obser\'ance in Pittsburgh, Erie and the Calu­met Region. 
The more than twelve thousand Notre Dame alumni and friends who gathered in 140 cities around the world heard guest speakers e.fplore this year's theme, "The Role of the Catholic University In the Modern Age." University administrators, deans, professors and coaches' presence at most of the gatherings gave evidence of Notre Dame's commit­ment. Civic and Church leaders were also among those voicing their support. 
In Pittsburgh, the Most Rev. Nicholas T. Elco DD, bishop of the Byzantine Rite, kindled the Notre Dame spirit and illuminated the evening's progrjim when he intoned: 
Almighty God, bless its. Though, today, many say that You no longer are, we of Noire Dame lift up our eyes and ask for a blessing in her name. Our Lady ... a collective blessing for all the members of our Alma Hater: for those triumphant in athletic prowess, for those who tvilt bask in theological and scientific glory in our Alma Mater's name. In the fttture in this ecumenical age, we pray that Notre Dame may triumph both as the Queen of Athletics and as the Queen of Theology and Science in order that more men will lift up their eyes to her wonderful accomplishments and believe in the power of Almighty God. The God who fortifies her and is very much alive in those who live under His blessings. Amen. 
Other manifestations of support were extended through donations given the University by several clubs. In Detroit, Notre Dame President Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC accepted a $14,000 check from the motor city Club, proceeds attained, in large peirt, through the closed-circuit telecast last fall of the Notre Dame-Michigan State football game. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed in still numerous other ways, times and locations, headUned with the presentation of assorted local and national awards. From New Englond to fhe Gulf Coast. Near-record gatherings of Notre Dame alumni and friends attended Universal Notre Dame Night celebrations from the Berkshires to New Orleans. The Holiday Inn in sub­urban Newton provided the dinner setting for more than 170 Boston Club members and guests. William Stewart Jr. '42, three-sport coach at Boston English for 20 years and son of the late major league baseball umpire, was presented the Club's annual Man of the Year Award. On hand to report Notre Dame's athletic fortunes was Ed "Moose" Krause, who later was presented with a $1,000 check for the University's Athletic and Convocation Center by Club President Bob Marr. 
From Maine to Texas, from Tokyo to Rome 
Thousands of Alumni and Friends of the University 
Joined with 140 ND Clubs in the 

43rd Annual Observance of Universal Notre Dame Night 
3S 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
DETROfrS LATIN QUARTER, enshrined by a model of the Golden Dome, hosted 450 Alumni and guests, April 18. While in Omaha, below, present­tation of the Man of the Year Award was made to SAC's commander-in-chief. General John D. Ryan, by ND Club President Thomas Walsh '42. 

Elsewhere, two other Massachusetts clubs, the Pioneer Valley and the Berkshire, celebrated jointly, AprU 23, at the Yellow Aster in Pittsfleld, and heard Dean William E. Burke of the Freshman Year of Studies tell of recent developments at Notre Dame. Further south, more than 75 members of the Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachusetts Club met at the Pawtucket Country Club, April 20, with "Moose" Krause as their guest. And in Connecticut, UND Night 
Man of the Year Awards 
Club 

BOSTON .William Stewart Jr. '42 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY Donald A. Foskett '40 
PHILADELPHIA Thomas D. McCloskey 
NEW YORK CITY Edward B. Fitzpatrick Sr. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY ^William Richardson 'S5 
observances were held in both Norwallc at the Shore 
and Country Club, and in Wallingford. At the latter, 
Donald A. Foskett '40, managing editor of The Cath­
olic Transcript, was named Man of the Year. 
Black tie was the suggested attire in Philadelphia, May 3, where more than 200 ND men and their ladies heard Father Hesburgh tell of Notre Dame's involve­ment in the world today. Among the distinguished guests attending UND Night at the Belleview Strat­ford Hotel were Philadelphia Mayor James Tate, the presidents of LaSalle, Villanova and St. Joseph's, and the recipient of the Philadelphia Man of the Year Award, Thomas D. McCloskey. 
New York, New Jersey and D.C. The following evening, the New York City Club hosted Notre Dame's pres­ident at the Waldorf Astoria, and rose with applause in honoring their man of the year, Edward B. Fitz­patrick Sr. The May 4 dinner also occasioned the presentation of the Club's annual scholarship to Bill 
FORT WAYNE'S 1966 Man of the Year honors were bestowed on Martin P. Tor­borg ILB'34. 
THE OUTSTANDING SCHOLAR-ATHLETE 
Award, presented yearly by the Oregon Club, was given to James Ruzaka, left, of Jesuit High School in Portland, by Club President Philip Meaney. 
ALUMNUS MAY 19(66 JUNE 

Hederman from Xaverian High School in Brooklyn. 
Across the Hudson on AprE 14, Seton' Hall's new student union was the scene of the New Jersey Club's dinner-dance, attended by Bishop John J. Dougherty, president of the university, and 180 Club members and guests. In the Plainfield Country Club two evenings later, the Central New Jersey Club honored Man of the Year William Richardson '55 at a dinner-dance attended by 92 alumni and friends of the University. 
The Normandy Farm in Potomac, Md., was select­ed by the District of Columbia Notre Dame Club for its night, April 20. With Edgar "Rip" Miller as toast­master. Club members and friends were entertained by the versatile "Georgetown Chimes" choral group and, later, heard Father Hesburgh's remarks on the state of the University. A week earlier, the Univer­sity's executive vice-president. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, appeared before the Baltimore Club at a dinner in the Holiday Inn North, preceded by a musical program by the Calvert Hall Glee Club. Delaware to Alabama. Numerous other University oflScials made appearances throughout the East Coast during UND Night festivities. Alumni Association Executive Secretary James E. Armstrong was the featured speaker April 19 at the Delaware Elks Lodge. On May 12, Assistant Football Coach George Sefcik 
addressed the burgeoning young alumni group in Atlanta, whUe in Greensboro, Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, chairman of the College of Science's department of preprofessional studies took the opportunity during the North Carolina Club's UND Night to present Notre Dame's Centennial of Science Award to Dr. Owen W. Doyle, an associate professor of radiology at Duke University. 
Notre Dame's Basketball Coach Johnny Dee was the featured guest at the Pensacola, Florida, April 12 evening along with six area high school basketball coaches. Despite the few alumni that live in the area (11), more than 120 attended the dinner. One night later, April 13, the Tutwiler Hotel in Birmingham was the scene of the Alabama Club's night, addressed by Dr. Baldinger. Dinner at the Fontainebleau Hotel with Father Joyce as the evening's speaker was the bill for the New Orleans Club. Special guest of the Club was the Most Rev. Harold Perry, auxiliary bishop of New Orleans. 
Middle Atlantic to Ohio Valley. From New York State through the heavily Notre Dame-populated Pennsyl­vania and on into the Ohio Valley states, Alumni and 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
their guests met in a variety of baUropms, hotels, restaurants and church basements. The Buffalo Club selected the Hotel Statler-Hilton as their site to honor Man of the Year A. Gordon Bennett '28, general manager of the Buffalo Courier Eo:press. Dean Burke was the University's representative at the April 16 dinner-dance attended by 75 people. 
Two nights later, Dean Burke also appeared before the Rochester Club's night at which the Man of the Year scroll was awzurded to Gerald J. Fljmn '40. On April 19, Dean Burke also addressed the Central New York Club's dinner-dance at the Birches Restaurant in Syracuse. More than 90 alumni, students, parents and friends attended the latter observance that also in­cluded special guests Rev. Charles Borgognoni, Cath­olic chaplain at Syracuse University, and Dr. Blasi, dean of students at LeMoyne College in Syracuse. 
A banquet at LaMonica's Restaurant in Bingham­ton was scheduled this year by the Triple Cities Qub 
BUFFALO, N.Y. A. Gordon Bennett '28 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. Gerald J. Flynn '40 
CENTRAL NEW YORK James Wallace '12 
TRIPLE CITIES, N.Y. .. George J. Haines '42 
Of New York. The April 14 evening included a tcilk by Brother Raphael Wilson CSC, director of admis­sions, and was highlighted by the presentation of a check to the University by Club President Tom MuscateUo. Johnstown, Erie ond PiHsburgh. Western and Central Pennsylvania held UND Nights in three locations— Johnstown, Erie and Pittsburgh. More than 60 Club members and guests of the Central Pennsylvjmia ND Qub attended dinner, April 23, at Johnstown's Sun­nehanna Country Club and heard Jim Armstrong tell of the special role Notre Dame Alumni play in the world today. In Erie, the University Club W2is used by the Notre Dame Alumni, April 11, at which three awards were made by Club officers and guest speaker, 
INDUSTRIALIST WM. R. DALEY, a member of ND's board of Lay Trustees, was presented the Cleveland Club's Man of the Year Award by John P. Murphy, 1965 Award recipient. 
COACH ARA PARSEGHIAN'S appearance at Cincinnati's UND Night prompted more than 350 Alumni to attend the Club stag dinner, April 12. 
James V. Gibbons, University assistant director of public relations. For her work in scientific research and education, Sr. Mary Carolyn Hermnan PhD'52, president of Mercyhurst College was presented Notre Dame's Centennial of Science Award, after which, 
•Michael McCoy received the Club's annual award for the best area-high-school football player. The evening concluded with the presentation of the Man of the 
ERIE, PA. Most Rev. Alfred M. Watson PITTSBURGH Peter F. Flaherty LLB '51 CINCINNATI John F. McCormick '48 OHIO VALLEY William H. Mitsch '33 LOUISVILLE, KY. Louis J. Hollenbach Jr. '37 

Year Award to the Most Rev. Alfred M. Watson, 
auxiliary bishop of Erie. 
And in Pittsburgh, where the celebrated invocation 

by Bishop Elco and a state-of-the-University message 
by Father Joyce shared the oratoricEil spotlight, two 
Centennial of Science Awards and the Man of the 
Year honors were made. Recipients of the former 
were Dr. Robert Schuler, head of radiation research lab 
at Mellon Institute; and Dr. Leo O'DonneU, Mercy 
Hospital physician. Peter F. Flaherty LLB'51, Pitts­
burgh attorney and city councilman, was presented 
the Man of the Year scroll. 
In the "Land of the Bluegrass," Louis\'ille Alumni and friends turned out, April 13, to hear guest speaker. Father Joyce, and to honor their Man of the Year, Louis J. Hollenback Jr. '37. At Eric's Steak House in ^Vheehng, W. Va., the Ohio Valley Club presented Man of the Year honors to William H. Mitsch '33. Rev. Paul G. Wendel CSC, assistant vice-president for business affairs, spoke on behalf of the University, followed by the well-known retired sports 
Writer, Frank Wallace '23, who gave his prognostica­
tion of Notre Dsime's football fortunes this fall. 
Eight Clubs in Ohio. Coach Ara Parseghian was the featured speaker April 12 at the Cincinnati stag dinner held in the Netherland Hilton. More than 350 were on hand when Club President Chuck Lima presented Ara with a $1,000 check to the University. In Dayton, it was a May 1 celebration of UND Night in the Kennedy Union at the University of Dayton. Jim Coone3', assistant Alumni Association secretary, 
was guest speaker and was followed by film high­lights of the 1965 football season. 
Six other Ohio clubs met in varied locations throughout the state. In Youngstown, the Holiday Inn provided the dinner setting for 80 Alumni and their wives who heard Jim Armstrong tell of recent developments at Notre Dame. The Canton Club, who honored Dr. Bernie Bonnot MD as their Man of the Year, turned out 100 strong, April 27, at Dick Dogan's restaurant. Special guests of the Canton evening included Most Rev. James W. Malone, bishop of Youngstown, and Bro. Thomas Farrell, president of Walsh College. April 27 was UND Night in Mansfield where the Man of the Year honor was awarded posthumously to George F. Kavanaugh '31. On hand at the Leland Hotel to accept the award was Dennis Kavanaugh, son of the deceased. 
In Cleveland, WUliam R. Daley, well-known city industriahst and chairman of the board of the Cleve­land Indians, was named Man of the Year at the Club's annual dinner-dance held in the Statler Hilton. The Tangier Restaurant in Akron, April 26, was the scene of that Club's annual observance, addressed this year by Jim Armstrong. The Northwestern Ohio alumni held a dinner at the Milano Club in Lima, April 28, and were addressed by Jim Armstrong and Club member Fr. Donald Heintschel. 
CANTON, O Dr. Bernard Bonnot M.D. 
CLEVELAND William R. Daley 
MANSFIELD George F. Kavanaugh '31 
(posthumously) 

ST. JOS. VALLEY, IND Judge Robert A. Grant '28 
LLB '30 

FORT WAYNE, IND Martin P. Torborg LLB '34 
South Bend to Terre Haute. In Hoosierland, UND Night celebrations were held from the eastern extreme in Muncie, across the state to the Calumet Region and down, through Fort Wayne, Indianapolis and Terre Haute. Coach Ara Parseghian was on hand at the K of C Home in Muncie, May 11, to welcome Alumni and friends; while in the Elkhart Country Club, April 18, the ND vice-president for student affairs. Rev. Charles C. McCarragher CSC, was the main speaker. Within the very shadow of the University, 180 mem­bers of the St. Joseph Valley Club, honoring Judge Robert A. Grant '28 LLB'30 as their Man of the Year, hosted Father Hesburgh, April 28, in an evening at the Center for Continuing Education. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
ROCKFORD'S (III.) 1966 Man of the Year Award was presented to the Honorable Albert S. O'Sullivon. 

PAT O'BRIEN, who joined Ed "Moose" Krause and other special guests at Chicago's UND Night, de­lighted more than 650 Alumni and guests with his stories of Rockne, told in the inimitable O'Brien manner. 
MAN OF THE YEAR honors from the St. Joseph Valley (Ind.) Club this year were bestowed on the Honora­ble Robert A. Grant '28 LLB '30, shown here with 1965 Award winner Joe Doyle, Club President Ed Gray and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC. 
Fort Wayne's Orchard Ridge Country Club wit­nessed an April 12th dinner-meeting at which 150 Alumni and wives heard Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, ND's vice-president for academic affairs, discuss this year's theme. Awarded that Club's annual Man ^of the Year honor was Martin P. Torborg LLB'34, city attorney and president of the board of education. 
One evening later, April 13, the Indianapolis Ath­letic Club provided the setting for the community's UND Night observance attended by Alumni and special 
INDIANAPOLIS, IND WUliam S. Sahm '51 
TERRE HAUTE, IND Hon. H. Ralph Johnston 
CALUMET REGION, IND. William J. Riley '38 
guests—the Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte DD, archbishop of Indianapolis, State Lt. Gov. and Mrs. Robert Rock and Mayor and Mrs. John Barton. It also occasioned the announcement by Dr. Paul Miller of two scholar­ships and, later, the presentation to Wm. S. Sahm '51 of the Man of the Year Award. 
Elsewhere in Indiana, the E\'ansville Country Club was selected by the Tri-State Club for its April 20th dinner attended by University speaker Dean Lawrence Baldinger. For Alumni and friends of Terre Haute, this year's observance was a dinner banquet, May 11, with guest speaker Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC, at which the Hon. H. Ralph Johnston was awarded Man of the Year honors. April 11 marked the Calumet Region's observance held at PhU Smidt's Restaurant in Hammond, addressed by Father Walsh. Throughout Michigan. With a major speech by Father Hesburgh before 450 top religious, civic, professional and business leaders, Detroit held its annual night, April 18, in the Latin Quarter. Sharing the speakers' platform with ND's president — from which the $14 thousand donation was later given—^was Bishop 
C. E. Nelligan, retired chief of chaplains for the Canadian Armed Forces in WW II. Peter J. Keman Jr. '49, former member of the Nationail ND Alumni Board, was Detroit's Man of the Year. 
In Muskegon, more than 40 Alumni and friends joined in an annual observance at the Black Angus 
MUSKEGON, MICH. Edmund Farhat 
DETROIT, MICH. Peter J. Keman Jr. '49 
CHICAGO Alfred C. Stepan Jr. '31 
PEORIA, ILL Bernard J. Ghiglieri Jr. '44 
ROCKFORD, ILL Chief Judge Albert S. 
O'Sullivan LLB '18 
Restaurant to hear John H. Janowski, the Univer­sity's publications coordinator, talk of "Notre Dame, A to Z." In Lansing, Dr. Thomas P. Bergin, dean of the Center for Continuing Education, was the featxured speaker at an April 14th dinner. Info the Windy City. The Grand Ballroom of the Conrad Hilton provided the gala setting for Chicago's UND Night attended by 650 Alumni and friends who listened to stories of Rockne told by the one and only Pat O'Brien. Other guests of honor were Undersecretary of Labor John Henning, Ed "Moose" Krause and Alfred C. Stepan Jr. '31, recipient of Chicago's Man of the Year Award. 
Eastern Illinois held its April 27th annual dinner in the Danville Holiday Inn ivith John Janowski as guest speaker. A dinner party at Martinetti's Restau­rant in Crystal Lake was attended by 64 McHenry County (HL) Club members and guests who were joined by speaker Dr. Frank T. McGuire, ND's vice-president for special projects. Assistant Football Coach Joe Yonto appeared before the Decatur Club, April 14, while on May 11, another assistant football coach, John Ray, was the principal speaker for the 

WARM WISHES are extended to Cmdr. Verne R. Hubka USN '43, San Diego's Man of the Year by Dr. Thomas R. Stewart, ND's associate vice-presi­dent for academic affairs. 
Peoria Night. At the latter, awards were given to Bernard J. Ghiglieri Jr. '44, Peoria attorney and a US federal commissioner, as Man of the Year; and to the Mid-State 8 Football Co-Champions of '65, the Ennio Arboit Award. 
In Rockford, Chief Judge Albert S. O'Sullivan T.T.Tt '18 was made recipient of the Man of the Year Award at that Qub's April 19 UND Night. And in East Moline, where guest speaker Dr. Francis McGuire is a former alumniis resident, the Quad-City Club observed UND Night at the Short Hills Country Club, April 17. 
Wisconsin and Minnesota. Five Wisconsin ND Clubs turned out "in full force" for annual celebrations headed by the observance in Milwaukee where more than 100 members and guests attended the club's dinner-dance, April 30, at the Underwood Court in suburban Wauwatosa. In Green Bay, it was an April 25th dinner meeting addressed by John Janowski. The Fox River Valley met April 26 at Skall's Colonial Wonder Bar in Appleton. April 14 marked La Crosse's annual observance held this year in the Hotel Stoddard with Rev. James O'Connell, principal of Aquinas High School, the featured speaker. Dinner at Crandall's Restuarant in Madison, April 24, for members and guests of the South Central Wisconsin 
GREEN BAY, WISC.. ^Kenneth A. Forbes MD MILWAUKEE ^Thomas Mulcahy ST. LOUIS —Don Ratch Lord KANSAS CITY, MO.. ^Vincent W. DeCoursey '39 OMAHA, NEB. ...General John D. Ryan 
Club was highlighted with the presentation of ND's Centennial of Science Award to Dr. Robert R. Borch­ers '58, assistant professor of physics at the University of Wisconsin. 
Dr. Francis McGuire traveled to Minnesota's Twin Cities for their annual banquet, April 21, at the Thunderbird Motel and Conservation Center, at which 70 Alumni and wives were on hand. 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 

Missouri, Kansas and Nebraska. An April 26th UND Night banquet at the Sheraton-Jefferson in St Louis was attended by more than 400 Alumni and guests who heard Father Hesburgh talk of the prominent role Catholic universities must take in today's world of education. With ND's president as his special guest was Very Rev. Paul C. Reinert, president of St. Louis University, along with numerous other leading religious, civic and business leaders. 
The Kansas City Qub, donor of $3,500 to Notre Dame, hosted Coach Ara Parseghian, April 11, and honored Albert W. Burgstahler '57 with the presenta­tion of the University's Centennial of Science Award for distinction in the field of scientific research, educa­tion, management and technology. The professor of chemistry at the University of Kansas was joined in the awards spotlight by Vincent W. DeCoursey '39, this year's Kansas City Man of the Year. 
April 12 was the Wichita Club's UND Night ob­servance held at the Wichita Club and addressed by Edward J. Cronin, an associate professor in Notre Dame's general program. At Omaha's Blackstone Hotel, more than 150 attended the UND Night dinner, April 28, to see General John D. Ryan, commander­in-chief of the US Air Forces Strategic Air Command, honored as the Omaha Club's Man of the Year. Special guests at the annual affair were Gov. and Mrs. Frank Morrison, Most Rev. Daniel E. Sheehan (Auxiliary Bishop of Omaha), Abbot Raphael Wilson OSB of Mt Michael Abbey and Francis X. Bradley, University representative and guest speaker. The Southwest. The Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club, April 14, was the site of that area's annual observance, attended this year by 70 Alumni and guests, and which featured assistant football coach, Tom Pagna, as speaker. Among the special guests were Bishop Victor J. Reed, Ray Ackerman—^ND Man of the Year, and William Bullard from St. Joseph High School of Chickars—^ND Boy of the Year. One evening later in Tulsa, Coach Pagna was the featured speaker once again for the Club's annual dinner held in the Tulsa Club's Teakwood Room. 
OKLAHOMA CITY Ray Ackerman 
NEW MEXICO Joseph Weidner son of Col. 
Joseph D. Weidner '40 
(posthumously) 
TUCSON, ARIZ. Donald T. Vosberg 
DALLAS-FORT WORTH ....Rt. Rev. Msgr. WilUam F. 
O'Brien 

UND Night Celebrations in the Texas manner were held in two longhom cities—^Dallas-Fort Worth, April 12, and Houston, April 20. In Dallas, the Rt. Rev. Msgr. William F. O'Brien, vicar-general of the Dallas-Fort Worth Diocese, was honored as Man of the Year by the more than 100 Alumni and guests present. While in Houston, the annual observance featuring guest speaker Dean Thomas Bergin was held at the River Oalcs Country Club and was attended by specisd. guests. Sister Mary Grace CSC, president of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, and Sister Maria Renata CSC, chairman of the SMC Foundation. 
In Albuquerque where Dr. Thomas Stewart was guest speaker, April 19, members and friends of the New Mexico ND Club honored the late Col. Joseph 
D. Widener '40 by awarding him posthumously their Man of the Year Award. 
Tucson's Ramada Inn provided the banquet setting for more than 75 Alumni and guests who were on hand to honor Donald T. Vosberg, an Arizona insur­ance executive, as their Man of the Year. Dean Thomas Bergin was the evening's speaker, while among the 
ALUMNUS MAY 1964 JUNE 
special guests was Bishop Harold Henry of Korea. 
More than 90 attended Denver's Euinual observance, addressed this year by Dr. Thomas Stewart. The Man of the Year Award was made to Carl F. ESberger '52 LLB'54 while, at the same time, the announcement was made that this year's schol£u:ship winner was Francis Robert McGregor. Utah, Oregon and Washington. Notre Dame Alumni and friends gathered in the Ramada Inn in Salt Lake City, April 13, to celebrate UND Night and to hecir Dr. Ed Cronin, the evening's main speatker. Dinner at the Benson Hotel in Portland, April 19, was the scene of the Oregon Club's Night where James W. 
DENVER Carl F. Fiberger '52 LLB '54 
SPOKANE, WASH. Dr. James P. Rotchford MD 
'48 

WESTERN WASH. Al Toth '49 
SAN DIEGO CDR. Verne R. Hubka USN 
'43 

LOS ANGELES. Robert L. Gervais '55 
Frick, ND's vice-president for public relations and development, spoke on ND's number-one ranking not only on the gridiron, but also in the academic world. The Judge Frank J. Lonergan Memorial Award for the outstanding scholar-athlete among Catholic high school seniors in Oregon was presented to James Ruzaka of Jesuit High School in Portland. Dr. James 
P. Rotchford was the recipient of the Spokane Club's Man of the Year Award when the Alumni and friends met for a social hour and banquet at The Davenport on April 21. James Frick was the featured speaker. Western Washington Club members gathered on April 20 at the Black Angus Steak House in Seattle also to hear James Frick speak and to see Rt. Rev. Philip Duffy, Club chaplain, present their Man of the Year Award to Al Toth '49. And a California Windup. April 23 was the night and the Sheridan Palace the place when 85 San Fran­ciscans heard speaker Dr. Thomas Stewart, and presented the Centennial of Science Award to Dr. Jack L. Melchor. In San Diego, Cmdr. Verne R. Hubka USN '43 was named Man of the Year when the Club met at the Bali Hai on the night of April 
21. Regis Philbin was M.C. for the evening and Tom Stewart spoke to the more than 75 Alumni families and friends of Notre Dame. Regis Philbin '53 was also the M. C. for the gathering of the Los Angeles Club in the Hollywood-Roosevelt Hotel April 19. Dr. George Shuster expressed the University's gratitude to Mort Goodman for his long-time service to the University and presented him with a plaque. A certificate of ap­preciation also was given to Fr. Patrick Peyton for his many years of work as the founder and promoter of the Family Theatre, while Robert L. Gervais '55 was cited as Man of the Year. 
_^*€5 
It ^ t-^* 

SWEET SONG OF SPRING 
T
HIS year's spring gridiron fashions, resplendent with new faces and budding talent, under­went their annual review against the Old-Timers in May. And the com­ment, from the more than 22,000 critics who saw the Varsity dress down its opposition 33-0, was that ijie pass is "in" once again at Notre Dame. 
Concluding spring practice with the 43rd annual ball game against former Notre Dame football greats. Coach Ara Parseghian displayed a dynamic new aerial line modeled by the one-two freshman quarterback combination of Terry Hanratty and Coley O'Brien. On the receiving end of their pitches was another rookie team of Jim Seymour and Curt Heneghan. And providing an omi­nous backdrop to the offensive dis­play was the presence of an tm­wavering Irish defensive eleven. 
The response was unanimous fol­lowing the May 7 classic: "This is a new and different ND team." 
Little else could result from Par­seghian's winter-long strategy meet­ings and the 25-day spring practice which had faced the task of: 
—^finding a quarterback who could provide an aerial attack, glaringly absent since the departure of John Huarte. 
—^replacing the almost unpene­trable defensive secondary of All-American Nick Rassas, Tom Longo and Tony Carey. 
—building a forward offensive wall that this year woidd be minus Ail-American Dick Arrington, Phil Sheridan, Tom Talaga, Bob Meeker and Tom SuUivan. Undaunted Pitching. In retrospect, the situation that confronted Par­seghian and his staff in late March prior to spring drills, was not aU that bleak. In both Hanratty and O'Brien, the Irish have two quarter­backs whose poise under an onrush­ing defensive would lead one to beheve they had already seen the wars of big-time intercollegiate foot­ball. 
Hanratty, a 6-1, 187 lb. freshman from Butler, Pa., who started for the varsity, dotted the airways wifh 30 passes, completing 13, two for touch­downs. He also was credited for two other scores, both coming on quarterback-keepers. 
The 5-11, 168 lb. O'Brien, whose family lives in Washington, D.C., saw action with the Old-Timers for three quarters, recording three-for­12 completions before trading his wliite jersey for a blue varsity numeral. His average then took an upswing as he completed six for 13, throwing no w to surer-fingered receivers. 
A third contender, sophomore Tom Schoen, who many felt would figure prominently in the quarterback race after his showing last year, has come out of spring practice heir apparent to Nick Rassas' defensive safety slot. His credentials for the new post — a passer's split-second sense of timing and a full knowledge of pass patterns — were borne out during the Old-Timers Game as he repeatedly broke up aerials, inter­cepting one that took him on a 60-yard TD jaunt only to be nullified by a clipping penalty. Unwavering Eleven. Joining Schoen in the defensive secondary are sopho­mores Tom O'Leary and Jim Smith­berger, both of whom saw limited action last fall. 
Parseghian's strength in returning lettermen rests in the "big four" defensive line of Alan Page, Pete Duranko, Tom Rhoads and Kevin Hardy. The 287 lb. Hardy, a junior tackle lost to the Irish for the entire season last year with a recurring back injury, appears in top physical condition and has turned in an out­standing spring performance. 
Captain Jim Lynch will head the pack of returning linebackers that is a defensive coach's dream. Rounding 
ALUMNUS MAY 1966 JUNE 
out the foursome are Mike McGill, 
Dave Martin and John Pergine. 
Not all was roses, however, insofar as Ara was concerned. Bemoaning the sluggish oflfensive blocking and concerned over the number of dropped passes, he remarked, "We'll have to do better." 
Ara's remarks came after the spring game which saw the Varsity held to seven points the first half and repeatedly halted within the Old-Timers' 25-yard line. Untried Front Wall. Only two letter­men return on the offensive line— center George Goeddeke and right guard Tom Regner. Filling the other holes at the conclusion of the spring practice were Dick Swatland at left guard, and Paul Seller and Rudy Konieczny at tackles. 
At the end positions, Ara has only one returning letterman, Don emitter, who missed the entire spring drill recovering from surgery. Beyond Gmitter, Parseghian is faced with an abundance of talented but untried underclassmen. 
Two freshmen. Curt Heneghan from Redmond, Wash., and Jim Seymour fro m Berkley, Mich., presently have copped the two end slots. Both displayed good speed and excellent moves during the Old-Timers Game, but lacked the 

seasoned hands of veteran receivers. 
Seymour, 6-4 and 202 lb., was the 
favorite target, snagging 10 passes 
for 166 yards, including a 50-yard 
bomb from Hanratty on the fourth 
play of the game. Seymour also 
shapes up currently as the team's 
punter, succeeding Dan McGinn lost 
to the Irish through graduation. 

With the quarterback chores ap­parently well-shouldered by Han­ratty and O'Brien, the only remain­ing position to fill in the backfield is the right halfback slot vacated by senior Bill Wolski. His likely replacement is Robert "Rocky" Blier, a 5-11, 185 lb. sophomore from Appleton, Wis., who recorded 67 yards in 21 carries during the Old-Timers Game. Capably rounding out the backfield are veterans Larry Conjar at fullback and Nick Eddy at halfback. 
Uninhibitable Running. Eddy, voted the nation's outstanding sophomore in 1964, led Notre Dame in rushing last season as a junior with 582 yjurds in 115 carries. Returning at fullback, Conjar finished his sopho­more yezir with 535 yards in 137 carries for a 3.9 average. 
Spring practice which began the last week of March and brought forth almost 100 candidates for the team, also marked the appearance of two new coaches on Notre Dame's gridiron horizon. Jerry Wampfler, a 1954 Miami of Ohio graduate and later an assistant football coach there, now takes charge of the offensive line vacated by Dave Hurd who retired last fall to enter private business. Richard "Doc" Urich's departure for the head coaching position at State University of New York in Buffalo signaled the promo­tion of Freshman Coach George Sefcik to varsity end mentor. His replacement for the frosh team is Wally Moore, successful coach at South Bend's St. Joseph's High School. 
The close of the spring drills also marked the announcement of the winners of the coaching stziff's an­nual Hering Award. Named for Frank E. Hering, Notre Dame coach 
O'BRIEN There with the action HANRATTY 
ALUMNUS MAY }966 JUNE 
VOICE IN THE CROWD: 

Synthesis within "A Great University" 
Tliomas R. Bettag, an Arts and Letters senior from Rockford, Mich.^ and graduating sports editor of the Scholastic, filed the following editorial for Ms last column in "Voice in the Crowd." Editor. 
I
F IN THE course of life every blond gets tagged "dizzy," every teen-ager, "revolting," every profes­sor, "absentminded," and every student, "apathetic," these people should consider themselves lucky to have to bear only one such epithet. 
COACH ARA PARSEGHIAN 

To be a sportswriter one must be simultaneously "gung-ho," "nsuTOW-minded," "oblivious to the more important things in life," "uncultured," and, at times, "illiterate." A sportswriter just has to go around in his own little unreal world, speak an unintelligible jargon and never read further than the back page of the Sun Times. Because, after aU, he is reflecting the world he is reporting. Or so the story goes. Personal Reflection. As one looks back on four years of Notre Dame sports, there are the memories of great victories, outstanding performances and, also, of heart­breaking defeats. But even more than these, perhaps, one is struck by the people connected with Notre Dame sports. There are athletes like Bob Lehman, Gerry Grey, Jim Carroll, BiU Boyle and Ed Dean. There are the coaches of the major sports like Ara Parseghian and Johnny Dee; and minor sports coaches like Mike DeCicco. You think of the many people on the fringes upon whom the athletic program depends, men like Nappy Napolitano. The names are merely examples. The thing that strikes you is that these are not just average men. These are men remarkable for their energy, interest, intelligence and, above all, for a firm commitment. 
You read a Sports Illustrated article from 1956 entitled "What Happens to Football Players?" The story is based upon a survey the Notre Dame Sociology Department did on the experiences of every living 
from 1896 to 1899, the awards this year were given to: Pete Duranko as the outstanding defensive lineman; Mike McGiU as the outstanding de­fensive linebacker; Tom O'Leary as the outstanding defensive back; Dick Swatland as the outstanding offen­sive lineman; Nick Eddy as the out­standing offensive back; Curt Hene­ghan as the outstanding offensive receiver; Larry Con jar as the most consistent back; Jim Seymour as the outstanding freshma n lineman; Terry Hanratty as the outstanding freshman back (offensive); and Ed Vuillemin as the outstanding fresh­man back (defensive). 
The action on Cartier Field and in the stadium is not the only indica­tion of Notre Dame's prospects this falL Pouring in daily in record numbers are requests for season football tickets which went on sale May 2. Ticket manager Bob Cahill reported in mid-May that football season ticket sales reflect a 75 per­cent increase in total sales and a 3 to 1 increase in new orders. Last year's season ticket holders have only until June 1 to renew. 
Fall 1966 will mark Ara's third year as head football coach of the Fighting Irish, and ND's 78th con­secutive appearance on the gridiron. 
Taking his 16-3-1 ND career slate into the forthcoming season, Par­seghian will meet 10 teams that include Purdue (Sept. 24), at North­western (Oct. 1), Army (Oct. 8), North Carolina (Oct. 15), at Okla­homa (Oct. 22), at Navy (Oct 29), Pittsburgh (Nov. 5), Duke (Nov. 12), at Michigan State (Nov. 19), and at Southern California (Nov. 26). 
ROCKNE: 
Thirty-five Years 
A plane was a rarity over the farmlands of Kansas in 1931. Sev­eral of the farmers looked up from their fields to watch the trimotor sputtering through the gray clouds. Moments later, it crashed into someone's muddy pasture, seven miles outside of Bazaar. All eight people aboard were Wiled. One was Knute Kenneth Rockne. 
It's been 35 years since that day but still many persons recall what they were doing when they heard the news that March 31. As John Husar recently wrote in the Chi­cago Tribune: "To say nations were shocked smd thousemds were reduced to tears would be trite, but true. Today's generation can re­member the impact of President Kennedy's death and, trusting his­tory, sense how Rockne's passing was felt" 
And if history is not suflJcient, there are the events of today honor­ing the passing of a man that meant so much to Notre Dame, and helped make Notre Dame mean so much to the world. As they have for the past 35 years, the Notre Dame Club of St Joseph VaUey honored the man at the Knute Rockne Memorial Conmiunion Breakfast, April 3. 
Don Miller, one of three surviving members of the famed Four Horse­men backfield, spoke at the memo­rial brejikfast following a Mass celebrated in Stanford-Keenan chapel on campus by Rev. Paul G. Wendel CSC, Club chaplain. 
Miller, whom Rockne once de­scribed as the "greatest open-field runner I ever had," was but one in the procession of superstars Rockne molded from George "The Gipper" Gipp through the Four Horsemen to his final team, the undefeated 1930 squad featuring Frank Carideo, Marchy Schwartz, Marty Brill and Bert Metzger. Under his leadership the Fighting Irish lost but 12 games in 13 years and went through five 
ALUMNUS ^AAY 1956 JUNE 

by TOM BETTAG 
winner of a Notre Dame monogram. The survey and story come to the conclusion that Notre Dame's foot­ball players, and athletes in genered, have proven to be far more successful in business, in marriage and in public life than did the average college graduate. The monogram winners agree almost unanimously that they would go out for a sport if they had to do it over again. They credit sports primarily with the 
CARROLL BOYLE LEHMAN 

formation of characteristics of teamwork, self-dis­cipline, ability to accept adversity, and sportsmanship. A Greater Meaning. You see all this and you begin to think that sports is something more than wins and losses. Maybe there is a certain depth within it to which these men have become devoted. And maybe you as a sportswriter may be working with something 
seasons undefeated. 
Head Football Coach Ara Par­seghian told the guests at the Rockne Memorial Breakfast, "I am rela­tively new here, but ever since I have been here I have realized that the spirit of Rockne is still alive with all Notre Dame people." 
Of the many things people re­member of Rockne, perhaps most outstanding is his ability at making half-time speeches to Notre Dame 
teams. Best 

COACH JOHNNY DEE 
that requires more than a first-grade intelligence. 
This University is striving vigorously for some­thing, something that is at times very difScuIt to put one's finger on. In the broadest of terms, it is a striving to be a "great university." But that isn't much help to the definition. Perhaps the most we can say is that there is a desire to improve this University in whatever way becomes apparent at the time. This is a practical, but perhaps dangerous, method. While attempting to achieve the immediate goal, it is possible to lose sight of the end. 
At the moment we seem to be striving to improve the academic atmosphere and are achieving some degree of success. But in thinking of the school's sports tradition as a hnk with the past, rather than part of the future, it is possible to view it merely as wins or losses rather than as a positive contribution. Because it is a positive contribution, it has been a great privilege to be a sportswriter. It is one of my greatest hopes that Notre Dame will achieve the final synthesis of academic and athletic, perhaps the biggest step towards being a great university. 
 remembered is . his 
"just one for the Gipper" talk during the Army-ND game of 1928. Notre Dame rallied to defeat the Cadets 12-6. Another time, after a disap­pointing first half, he just opened the locker room door, looked in, and said: "I beg your pardon. I thought this was the Notre Dame football team." He closed the door and walked away. Notre Dame rallied to win that contest, also. 

Still another facet of Rockne's life was the physical hardships he endured. Suffering from a severe leg infection in 1929, he showed up for each game on a stretcher. His ailments and balding head made him seem far beyond his years. It is hard to recall.that on that day in March, 1931, at the height of his career, Knute Kenneth Rockne was 43, only a few months older than present coach Ara Parseghian. 
A CHARRED, MUDDY REMINDER: A letter that rode the frimotor into a Kansas field. 
class reunions 
-Dear Fellow Alumnus: 
This letter is being written within hours of the adjournment of the spring Alumni Board meeting. Such meetings ore always stimulating experiences. This one was doubly so because, by a happy coincidence, the Board was able to portidpatc in the Senior Dinner, the traditional introduction of the senior clals to the Alumni Association. It was, indeed, a rare honor for me to have been able to address this group.:;; ; ;; . .:; ."", ;.. ; ' 
It was also an occasion that slimulated;in;;me mixed emotions. It b net given to many peopje outside the university administration to be able to hove current and continuing contact^with. both the alumni and student viewpoints. .Such a privilege conies in a limited way to those serving on the AIumniBoard.- Consequently,; anything I said wot tempered by an awareness that there might not be two different viewpoints, but rather two different conclusions reached when starting from the same facts. , . 
There is at least one common interest-Tradition.: Most alumni or* interested in preserving' it, most studehls are interested in breaking it. For sheer excitement nothing can beat the shattering of a cherished tradition. Consequently, I must secretly be in sym­pothy with the students. However, the concern I expressed was not just with the elimination of an old custom, but rather with the idea that the elimination of any tradition was good.. My concern it with a world that equates change with progress. Further, the laere drastic the change the more desirable is thi^ progress and, 
•ven worse, the more violent the methods used to effect the change the greater the progress. Heaven;knows I.am not a pro­ponent of the status quo. But to indicate the belief that not all change is necessarily good, I asked the seniois hovir, they dedded which old customs and traditions to eliminate, and which customs and traditions to create. 
. . Perhaps it now is time to ask the alumni a similar question. How do .you decide which old customs and traditions to preserve? There is no more virtue in preserving a stifling or inhibitory concept than there is in the needless elimination of a useful trodiKon. 
Which traditions ore worth keeping? An easy answer is ". . . only those that help Notre Dame progress, ;or, at least, do not hinder progress." Who decides what encourages and what hinders progress? Each of us does^;—but the more we make; on 
: effort to understand what is taking place on the campus the belter .'position .vre will be in to arrive at a rational conclusion. -. 
" There is on aliveness on the campus today that is impossible to describe. I think it comes about as the result ofJhe.fdct that Notre Dame men ore not being trained to respond to'situations OS Pavlov animals are trained, but rather are being educated to aeote the situations. In such an atmosphere change is inevitable. 
The stereotyped picture of the alumnus is as the keeper of the traditions. The "visionary gleam in the eye" also sometimes causes the blind spots that prevent us from seeing ob>nous oi>portuhities for advancement. 
The student of today and the alumnus of the post have one thing in common. They are typical in that, almost invariably, they put progress ahead of peace. We shouldn't be. surprised if there is Jess peace oh the campus today than'there.yiras in the past. We should welcome it as.a sign that present students recognize More opportunities for progress than we di(l. < 
I have implidt faith in the character of the. present Nohr« Dame man. Whether we understand all his reactions or notj he is going to bring as much credit to Notre Dome in the future as have the illustrious graduates of the:past. With a little, effort I think we can understand him. 
Very truly ypui^ ; ­
• : THOMAS P. CAIlNEr'arr •••Pre»ideiit-:.'\ r^:';;'. 
NOTHE DAME 
as :HliU[SJ 








