The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
QM •*Q 
COMMENT 
NOTRE DAME 
Mellow old domes arid spiries Colored with sacred traditions and dim-writ achievements Pencil a towering splendor, dark in 
the evening glow. A wind that seems but a whisper Stirs the clumb'rous shadow-flood With a gossomeer finger of leaves And cools the order of the conquering 
green, That marches up in stealth to kiss the grey old stones .. . And ere the whisper passes it thrills into a song That rises from a thousand marching hearts. 
The poem above is taken from the anthology published by the Scribblers in 1927 and is another bead in the decades of thoughts that Notre Dame has inspired in Her poets. 
The Reunions that come with Commencement are the cause of this quotation. 
Too often. Reunion brings associations of sentimentality, of regrets, of time, of expense, of factors generally which argue against the effort of attendance. 
Those ai'guments usually exist only among those who have never attended Reunions, particularly Reunions at Notre Dame. 
There is wholesome senti­ment among Notre Dame men, for Notre Dame and for each other. There is no sentimen­tality. 
Absence of friends at Re­unions, particularly those that the years necessarily claim, cannot help but bring regrets. But these are, and should be, overshadowed by the consola­tion of the preparation Notre 
IN TtiiS IXXLE 
Arena (A Poem), by Gilbert K.> Chesterton, LL.D Frontispiece 
Angus McDonald, '00, Commencement Speaker 227 
Probation Course, by Prof. Maurice Pettit 229 
Club Personalities : . 231 
Glee Club Plans Eastern Tour, by James K. Collins, '32 .__ 232 
Manion Chairman Law Reunion-233 
Season Tickets on Sale 235 
Athletics, by Joseph Petritz, '32_ 236 
Editorial 237 
Two New Dormitories Announced. 240 
The Alumni Clubs 244 
The Alumni 
249 
The mnf^azine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of sinRle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post ofSce at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMEBICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAJIES E. ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C,S:C., '90 Honorary President FRANK E . HERING, '98 President HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, '13 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer GEORGE M. JLIYPOLE,'03 -~ Director 
M. HARRY MILLER,'10 -. -• - Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 -Director JOHN W. EGGEJIAN, '00 {ex officio) Director 
iiiiiMiiiiii iiiimnmnuipl 
Dame gives to Her men for and profane, is not to be counted in dollars and cents. 
death, as well as for life. 
Each year, if you'll pardon a Time and expense are prac­practical observation which tical arguments that too fre­borders on sentimentality if quently play a disproportionate misinterpreted, a few alumni part in the exercise of the will. 
return, or could return, who But for alumni who live any never have another chance. 
distance from Notre Dame, If you can come this year, even for those more fortunate come. 
graduates who live in the very 
valley of the St. Joseph, re­June 5, 6 and 7. union with friends and revisit­1881, 1893-4-5-6, 1906! 
ing of familiar places, sacred 1912-13-14-15, 1926! 
0.. 
Tliere Jiprose a golden giant 
Oil Uie gilded house of Nero 


The Arena 
Even his far-flung flaming shadoiu and his image sioollen large Looking doivn on the dry whirlpool Causa Nostrae Laetitiae Of the round Arena spinning <•">= acrompanying beautiful poem has 
. ...T . • • T.TT'j.^t T ^^^li dedicated to Notre Dame by Gil-
As a chanot-xvheel goes spinning; and the chariots at the charge. tert Keith Chesterton. LUD., who 
recently completed a six weeks* lecture course at the University. 
And tlie molten monstrous visage ^lie original manuscript is 
in the university Library.) 
Saw the pageants, saw the torments, 
Down the golden dust iindazzled saw the gladiators go. Heard the cry in t/ife closed desert, Te salutant morituri. 
As the slaves of doom went stumbling, shuddering, to the shades beloto. 
"Lord of Life, of lyres and laughter. Those about to die salute thee. 
At thy godlike fancy feeding men with bread and beasts with mcti; But for us the Fates point deathward In a. thousand thumbs thrust downward, 
' And tlie Dog of Hell is roaring through the lions in tlieir den." 
I have seen, where a strange country 
Opened its secret plains about vie. 
One great golden dome stand lonely with its golden image, one Seen afar, in strange fulfilment. Through the sunlit Indian summer 
That Apocalyptic portent that has clothed her with the Sun. 
She too looks on the Arena, 
Sees the gladiators in grapple. 
She wlwse names are Seven Sorroios and the Cause of All Our Joy, Sees the pit that stank with slaughter Scoured to make the courts of morning 
For the cheers of jesting kindred and the scampering of a boy. 
"Queen of Death and deadly weeping Tliose about to live salute thee. 
Youth untroubled; youth untortttred; hateless war and harmless mirth. And tlie New Lord's larger largesse Holier bread and liappier circus. 
Since the Queen of Sevenfold Sorrow has brought joy upon tlie earth." 
Bintis above the broad arena 
Where the whirling centuries circle. 
Bums the Sun-clothed on the summit, golden-sheeted, goldeiuslwd. Like a sun-burst on the mountains. Like the flames upon the forest 
Of the sunbeams of the sivord-blades of the Gladiators of God. 
And I saw them shock the whirlwitid 
Of the world of, dust and dazzle: 
.And thrice they stamped, athunderclap;andthricethesand-wheelsioirled; And thrice they cried like thunder On Our Lady of the Victories, 
The Mother of the Master of the Masterers of the World. 
"Queen of Death and Life undying Those about to live salute thee; 
Not the crawlers with the cattle; looking deathward with the sivine. But the shout upon the mountains Of the men that live for ever. 
Who are free of all things living but a Child; and He was thine." 
Rliiiiii mill 11 1 iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiii I ittiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiitiHMnmiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiliiiiiiiitnniiiiiniimmiiiiiiiiiiiinliiiiiilSI 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume IX. MARCH, 1931 No. 7 
AngusMcDonald/'OO/CommencementSpeaker 
Popular Alumnus, President of the Southern Pacific Railroad Announced by University,­Brilliant Career, Ideal N.D. Backsround Recommend Choice 
Alumni will learn \vith pleasure of the selection of 
Angus D. McDonald, New York City, president of the 
Southern Pacific Railroad-in Louisiana and Texas, as the 
1931 Conunencement speaker. 

Mr. McDonald's career approaches the embodiment of 
factors typical of Notre Dame men and Notre Dame 
education. He attended preparatory school at St. Ed­
ward's, Austin, Texas. From there 
he came, to Notre Dame. Like so 
many successful alumni, he came 
from a home that could hardly 
afford the expenses attendant upon 
his education at the University 
The strain finally became too grea t 
for his. parents and rather than 
burden them, he left Notre Dame 
before i-eceiving his degree. He 
had been prominent and popular 
on the campus. He was a^mono 
gx-am man in football and baseball, 
captaining the latter sport for two 
years. 

The Editor has it on the auth ority of a classmate of Mr. Mc Donald that following his departure from Notre Dame Mr. McDonald went to work at ?40 a month. The job oflfered no further possibilities after a certain length of time, but the alternative was a job paying $30 a month. With the vision that has since raised him to recognized leadership in his field, Mr. McDon­ald took the job with the smaller salary. Results indicate the merit ANGUS D. of his judgment. 
The instance is not cited as a "success story" feature. 
It is repeated here to show that character, willingness to 
work hard, ability to judge opportunity and to profit 
accordingly, have brought Mr. McDonald to a position of 
eminence in American industry. 

His affiliation with the Southern Pacific lines has been 
long and consistently progressive, beginning -mth a posi­,tion in the accounting department in Houston, Texas. After several years there he was transferred to San Frarcisco, where he was advanced to the auditorship of 
the company. He later was promoted to the position of deputy controller, with offices in New York City. On June 1, 1925, he became Vice-Chairman of the Executive Com­mittee of the Southern Pacific Company and the several Southern Pacific Lines in Louisiana and Texas. His ad­vancement to the presidency of the Louisiana and Texas branches of the Southern Pacific took place Dec. 28, 1926. 
Mr. McDonald has always, since time and circumstances permitted, taken an active interest in Notre Dame. He has crossed the con­tinent to see Notre Dame play foot­ball, his own sporty and he has been a welcome and interested visitor on the campus as the years have brought progress in all its forms to Notre Dame. He has been active in the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York since taking up his duties there. 
The first graduate in course to deliver a Conunencement address at Notre Dame in recent years was the late Frank O'Shaughnessy of Chicago, a classmate of Mr. Mc­Donald, who spoke at the '28 graduation. In that beautiful ad­dress was contained so much that was close to Notre Dame, so much that cannot come to those who have never lived life on the campus, that the selection of another alumnus for this honor must meet with the approval of Notre Dame men. 

 MCDONALD, 'CO Mr. McDonald is so eminently qualified for this distinction that his appearance at Commencement will be awaited with the most pleasant anticipation by those whom he has known and by .those fortunate members of the Class of 1931 whom he will address. 
The most recent honor to come to Mr. McDonald for _ his active and able participation in Catholic life was the Papal bestowal upon him last month of Knighthood in the Order of Malta. *^ 
The Commencement, as announced elsewhere, should, in  itself, attract every alumnus who can possibly attend. 
228 March, 1931
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Al umni Office Unusually Busy 
(Illustrations from a feature story in the Scholastic) 
The Alumni Seci'etary and his two capable assistants are gems of purest ray who are just inland enough to abhor the dark ocean's unfathomed caves. 
Add to this the unanswered cor­respondence, the mistakes in the ALUMNUS, the wrong addresses, the forgotten promises, and all the cur­rent faults of the Office, for some of which we are responsible and for all of which we .are blamed, and you get an explanation. 
The answer is—outside work. 

Perhaps, in view of the honor to Notre Dame and the Association, the two functions claiming considerable attention of the Editor ought not to be so brutally revealed in the harsh word "work." 
At the last Convention of the American Alumni Council, your Sec­retary was made Director for Conven­tions, which means that he is respon­sible (assisted by able committees) for the three day program in Atlanta, Ga., April 15-18. To arrange a pro­gram that will interest the alumnae of Smith or Mills Colleges and the alumni of Toronto and Rollins, is not something that can be done on these Saturday afternoons, nice though they be here in Indiana (for the first time in eighty years). 
Then, the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago, at the request of your campus ambassador,' invited the. National Catholic Alumni Federation to .hold its annual convention in Chicago, April 24-26. Loyola, De Paul, St. Viator's and Marquette Universities are co-operating hosts. As a much appreciated honor, your Secretary was made general chairman of this Con­vention by representatives of these Universities and the Chicago Club. 
THE SECRETARY 

In both organizations, Notre Dame has been given most generous recog­nition and has profited immeasurably from the contacts formed and expe­rience gained. -Any service that the Alumni Office of Notx-e Dame can ren­der either or both of these organiza­tions is commanded by our previous participation in their benefits. 
The fact that both of them have seen fit to honor, and at the same time call upon the time and energy of, the Office on these coincidental dates, is a source of satisfaction, of course. 
We outline it here primarily, how­ever, in extenuation of the comers that must necessarily be cut in the work of the Office to carry out these extraordinary duties. 
Progi-ams for both Conventions are now rather well developed and there is promise that both organizations will enjoy the annual feast of reason and flow of soul that they have come to anticipate. This is not a pat on the Secretarial back. It is only another confirmation of the mutual friendship and co-operation that exists in grow­ing intensity between all the schools and colleges of this country through their alumni work, and on the Feder­ation side of the fence between our Catholic men's colleges and uni­versities. 
The Secretary commends particu­larly the enterprise of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in its invitation to the National Catholic Alumni Federa­tion. It is assuming as a favor to the Alumni Office an obligation and a privilege that under ordinary circum­stances would have been assumed by the National Association. Indications are that under the guidance of Frank 
T. Fitzsiramons, last year's president of the organization, the Club's part in the forthcoming Convention will bring considerable distinction to all Notre Dame, certainly to the Club itself. 
THE ALUMNI OKEICE 

Miss Elenore Engeldrtivi and Miss Mary Cass, Assistants 
The Training Course For Probation Workers 
A t Notre Dame^ 
* EDiTon's XOTE: This paper, read by Pro­fessor Pettit at the 2-lth Annual Conference of the National Probation Association in Bos­ton, last June, recently appeared in the asso­ciation's year Book for 1930. The Probation Work proffram was established in the Depart­ment of Sociolosy in 1929. It trains collcsc men for probation and parole work in con­nection with' the more advanced Criminal Courts, Courts of Domestic Relations, and Juvenile Courts. The first class will frradnate in June. 
The system of training college men for the probation field, recently in-ti-oduced at the. University of Notre 
• Dame, is based on four propositions. 
First, that the day is rapidly ap­proaching when the taxpaying public will refuse to tolerate the inefficient, untrained probation worker produced by the spoils system, and will demand instead probation workers who are skilled in the detection and redirection of the causative factors of maladjust­ment. 
Second, "that it is now possible to predict the various types of problems which will confront the future pro­bation worker, and to provide special training peculiar to his needs. 
Third, that the special training necessary for the male probation norker should be given on the college level. 
Fourth, that the salary situation justifies us in encouraging college men to enter probation work. 
In this paper, an attempt will be made to establish these four proposi­tions. 
New Interests in Criminology 

The present "crime wave" complex is nothing new in the history of social psychology. However, in previous periods of popular excitement, so­ciety's only reaction to this condition has been revealed by new batches of emotional legislation against the crim­inal. We, too, have recently con­tributed our own share of the tradi­tional "treat them rough" type of legislation and have already witnessed some of the sad results of this tradi­tional criminology. Yet, even so, it would seem that the American public mind has responded to its "crime wave" neurosis this time, with some intelligent as well as much emotional activity. 
-As evidence of this intelligent re­sponse, attention is directed to the 
By MAURICE L. PETTIT, M..A. 
University of Notre Dame 

many state crime commissions which have been appointed to make a care­ful study of the whole crime situation, to the literature on criminology which has trebled almost over night, and to the schools of crime detection recently 
MAURICE L . PETTIT, M..A. 

established in connection with some of our universities. 
At last, it looks as though a "crime wave" is going to leave us with some­thing new in the field of crime therapy. 
We, at Notre Dame, believe that one of the benefactions of this new interest in criminology will be a bet­ter understanding of the nature of probation and of the necessity of skilled probation workers. The crime commissions which have already re­ported have almost invariably stressed the need of more intelligent as well as wide-spread probation. In the future reports of the state and national crime commissions, the same idea must of necessity be repeated. When we consider the prestige which the reports of these commissions will have, it would seem reasonable to an­ticipate a public demand and more efficient type of probation service. This will mean that skill, rather than a particular political affiliation, will be demanded of the future probation worker. The recent prison tragedies and the crowded conditions in all penal institutions should serve to speed up the adoption of methods aimed at rehabilitating individuals outside the prisons and so-called re­form schools. 
Special Training 

Gi-anting the need of skilled proba­tion workers, is it possible to devise a system of special training which will develop them? In answer to this question, I believe that all who are experienced in probation matters will agree that the successful probation worker of the future must have some­thing more than what we formerly called "the gift." In other words, we no longer accept "middle-age, a kindly disposition, and common sense," as the sole necessary qualificaitons of a pro­bation officer. -All of the members of this -Association feel, I believe, that the pioneer days in the field of proba­tion are over, and that educational as well as temperamental qualifications are necessary and should be required of probation workers. 
When we talk of the education of the probation worker, many imme­diately think of social case work training. In other words, a probation worker should be, if possible, a trained social worker. -At Notre Dame, we qualify this statement. We say that a probation worker should be something more than a mere social worker. We feel that modem social case work is dealing almost exclusive­ly with externals, whereas the proba­tion worker, in addition, must be trained to search beneath these ex­ternals for the motives which prompt an anti-social act. The problems which confront the probation worker are different, if not more difficult, than those of the general social worker. If this be true, then the training which the future probation worker is to receive must be different, in that it must delve at least into the subjects of normal and abnormal psy­chology, as well as the subjects usually considered necessary in social work training. 
At Notre Dame, we require the fu­ture probation worker to follow such courses as. Clinical Psychology, Psy­chology of Character Education, and the Technique of Probation, which are not usually included in the train­ing of the general social case worker. We also require the student to take 
courses which will give him something 
of the approach and point of view of 
the recreational leader, another type 
of training not included in general 
case work training. 
It is necessaiy to enumerate the 
tx-aditional courses which iirovide the 
ordinary social case work background 
for our students. Such courses as 
Principles of Social Case Work, Social 
Statistics, Community Organization, 
The Family, Race and Immigration 
Problems, Labor Problems are more 
or less standardized in all schools of 
social case work. 
College Training 
The mere enumeration of the 
courses which we believe the future 
probation worker should follow is, in 
itself, an argument for college train­
ing. If such specialized courses are 
to be followed intelligently, a thorough 
background in the fields of economics, 
sociology, biology, and psychology is 
necessary as a prerequisite. At least 
two years of college work is neces­
sai-y, followed by tivo more years of 
combined cultural and specialized 
courses at the completion of which 
the A.B. degree is awarded. 
In view of the present tendency to emphasize graduate training for so­cial work, we realize that we are open to the charge of lowering educational standards. We have given considera­ble thought to this objection, and even though we, ourselvr^r;, are engaged in training another type of social worker on a strictly graduate basis, we be­lieve that the training of male pro­bation workers should be conducted for the present, at least on the under­graduate level. 
Without going into the very much disputed question of the relative value of graduate and undergraduate train­ing in social work, we believe that there are some very practical reasons which should govern our program. I presume than one argument is ob­\-ious. The percentage of college trained men who enter the probation field at the present time is so small that it would be ridiculous to empha­size graduate training for some time to come. In addition to this practical argument, we have actually found a decided advantage in undergraduate training which, we think, is not gen­erally recognized. Our experience in training graduate students for social work has brought out the fact that regardless of the required recom­mendations and credentials as to character, qualifications and experi­ence, graduate students who are wholly unfitted for social work will pursue courses and sometimes gradu­ate. 
No matter how far away from the pioneer standard \%-hich made person­ality the chief requirement for proba­tion work, we cannot overlook the fact that personality is an important factor in the success of the probation worker. In the recognition of this personality element, we believe that the undergraduate basis of training, wherein the student is subjected to four years rather than a single year of obser\-ation, has a special value. Even after the undergraduate student has started his specialized courses in probation work, it is always possible to take him aside at the end of the semester and suggest that he change and continue in a sociology major to graduation rather than in probation work. This may be done without any serious loss of time or scholastic 
REV. RAYJION'D MURRAY, C.S.C. 
Head of Sociology Department 
credit by the student. It might be of interest to point out that less than one-third of those who started their junior year in probation work at Notre Dame will be permitted to enter the senior year in that curriculum. 
As the student comes to learn that he, too, may try himself out in proba­tion work and at certain stages, with­out imperiling his graduation, change his course, he is encouraged to "try out" the new field. This is an impor­tant point to note in connection with the recruiting of probation workers. To tell college students about the pro­bation field and to arrange courses to meet their convenience is to play a leading part in the recruiting of a higher type of male probation worker. 
One difficulty in the training of college students who are to receive an A.B. degree at the end of four years concerns the matter of field work. The students are generally young and, likewise, too much field work will crowd out the strictly cul­tural courses of the A.B. curriculum. We meet the problem of immaturity first, by 'selecting our students, and secondly, by confining our field work in the junior year to carefully se­lected cases of juvenile delinquents, and then, only under the close super­vision of the case supervisor of the juvenile court who is a member of the university faculty. In the matter of time devoted to field work,'we permit one hundred hours in the junior year and fifty hours in the senior year in connection with the South Bend court. This is supplanted by requiring six weeks of full-time probation work in the juvenile court of a large city during the summer following the junior year. This service, in two types of cities, we believe, will give to the college student sufficient prac­tical experience to enter the proba­tion field, and yet not interfere with his basic cultural courses. 
Salaries 
We find that most college men are not aware of the fact that there are many positions in the probation field which pay in the neighborhood of $2500 to 53000 per year. Such posi­tions are sufficient to attract many college men provided that there is an opportunity for an increase in salary as the years go on. This op­portunity exists today but will be more pronounced in the near future, we believe, when the reports of the various crime commissions have driven home the idea that higher salaries must be paid for improved probation ser\-ice. 
In conclusion, I might state that we off'er our Notre Dame program for consideration not as the ideal but as a very practical way of bringing an annual supply of reasonably well-trained male probation workers into the field immediately. 

Father Ward Writes Text • 
The Reverend Leo R. Ward, C.S.C. of the department of philosophy, has recently finished the translation from the French of Moral Values in the Moral Life by Etienne Gilson. M. Gilson is director of medieval re­search at the University of Toronto. He was formerly connected with the Sorbonne and Harvard universities. He is recognized as one of the leading Thomists of modem times and he has made a careful study of the moral values in St. Thomas on which he based his' work. 
Treating the work from an historical and philosophical point of view, the book has attracted wide attention. The proofs of Father Ward's transla­tion have been read, and the book should appear this month. 
Father Ward has done considerable work in the field of philosophical re­search, and is the author of some books on philosophy as well as sev­eral contributions to various period­icals. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


Some Personalities Among The Clubs 
HENRY I. DOdaVEILER. Mr. Dockweiler is President of the Notre Dame Club of Los Anselcs. Calif., one of the larger of the Notre Dame Clubs, despite its distance from the Uni­versity. Mr. Dockweiler is a partner in the law firm of Dockweiler, Dockweiler & Finch. 1035 I. N. Van Nuys Bids.. Los Angeles. He was for a nxmiber of years active in the dip­lomatic service of the United States, being sta­tioned in Japan, China. Spain and Santo Domingo, during his verj- successful career in that field. Mr. Dockweiler received his A.B. from Notre Dame in 1912. 
FRED L. JOYCE. Mr. Joyce is Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Qeveland, O. His service to that important organization has been outstanding. Mr. Joyce is manager of the Lake Shore Hotel, Lakewood. Ohio, one of the largest and finest apartment hotels in Cleveland. He was for several years wtih the Allerton organization, and his success w^ith that hotel group and its select clientele made him very popular and prominent in his field, resulting in his appointment to the Lake Shore management. I^Ir. Joyce was a student at Notre Dame in 1919. 
DR. D. JL NIGRO. Doctor Nigro is Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City, Mo. The Kansas City Qub has rendered great service to Notre Dame in a territory which has unfortunately little direct contact with the University's activities, such as athletics, debate. Glee club,'and so on. That Notre Dame stands so highly there is a tribute to the Qub. A Kansas City paper says, "We know of no finer gentleman or truer sportsman in" Kansas City . . ." He is a specialist in industrial surgery, offices in the Argyle Bldg. He is famous for his professional aid to unfortunate children. N. D. '13-*14. 
P. E. BURKE. Mr. Burke is President of DR. JOSEPH P. COSTELLO. Dr. Costello RAYMOND R. BRADY. Mr. Brady, athe Louisiana-filississippi Qub. Notre Dame's is President of the Notre Dame Club of St. graduate of *24, is one of the younger Qub alumni in that distant and interesting part of Louis, Mo., another of Notre Dame's able rep­
executives. His Presidency of the Notre Dame 
the country. Numbers in the Club are few, resentative organizations where representation Club of Utah has resulted in the establishment 
but activities are most representative, and both through other channels is difficult to achieve. of a prestige for Notre Dame in that distant Club and officers are deserving of special com­Dr. Costelto was at N. D. in 1912, but left to territory out of all proportion to the few mendation. Mr. Burke, in addition to being a complete his medical course at St. Louis U., alumni who live there. Mr. Brady was agood alumnus, is the father of an alumnus. E. where he was graduated in 1918. He is Vice-
monogram man and was very active in campus Boland Burke. *2S. Mr. Burke himself was 
President of the Medical Alumni Association organizations while at Notre Dame, acting as graduated wtih an LL.B. in '88 and remained of that University. Dr. Cbstcllo's offices are in chairman of the S. A. C. He has been very for an A.B. in '89. He and his family are the Lister Bldg., St. Louis. He is a brother of successful in the practice of law in Utah and 
prominent in the civic and social life of New John W. Costello, former President of the is this year State Secretary of the Republican Orleans. Mr. Burke's offices are at 307 Camp Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
party in Utah. His offices arc in the Keams St., New Orleans. 
Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
Glee Club Plans Eastern Tour 
By James K. Collins, '32 
JOSEPH J. CASASANTA, Director 

As the vacation period approaches, plans for the eastern spring tour of the University Glee Club are being completed by J. Edward Phelan, Pat­erson, New Jersey, business manager of the organization. The spring trip has become an annual event on the schedule of Director Joseph J. Cas­asanta's singers, and the territory covered this year will be practically the same as that of the trip last year. 
Negotiations have been carried on by Prof. Casasanta and Phelan with many cities but as yet no complete itinerary has been announced. That there will be no appearances on the professional stage such as the club made last year is practically certain, Phelan said, because the limited vaca­tion will not allow the club to spend a long time in any one city. 

Montclair, New Jersey, and Pitts­field, Massachusetts, are certain stops on the itinerary. Other cities with which arrangements must be com­pleted are Buffalo, Syracuse, Utica, New York, Bethlehem, and Philadel­phia, Bayonne and Paterson, New Jersey. The club has appeared in or near all of these cities during the past years, and Phelan expects to complete arrangements for this year in the near future. 
The 1931 club opened its concert season before the student body of St. Mary's College and Academy on March 8. In its first public appear­ance. Prof. Casasanta presented a wide variation in the program rang­ing from motets and rondos to sea and folk songs. The singers closed their first program with the four songs of the campus: "Irish Backs," "Down The Line," "Hike, Notre Dame," and the "Victory March." 
The program presented this year is the most diversified that was ever attempted by any Notre Dame club. That such a program can be at­tempted and carried out is reflected in the fact that Director Casasanta has a number of men who have been singing under his tutelage for three and four years and are entirely fa­miliar with his-method. He has al­ways striven for excellence in en­semble, singing in a balanced pro­gram rather than a few feature num­bers. K there is an outstanding num­ber on the program it is the singing of the entire club in such numbers as the "Volga Boatmen" or "Matona, Lovely Maiden." 
S. Jerome Roach, premier baritone soloist of the 1930 club, will again be heard. George Menard and Justin Tompkins serving their first year in the club, are both soloists of great promise. Many other men have been competing for the soloist places which insures Director Casasanta of no lack of material in this field. 
The varsity quartet, composed of Ronald Zudeck, George Mangan, Jerome Roach and J. Edward Phelan, made its appearance at the St. Mary's concert. Clever songs sung in a light vein brought these men much ap­plause. The quartette will be a fix­ture on this year's program. Director Casasanta said. 
The annual campus concert is scheduled for March 15 in Washing­ton Hall. This concert has always been the real test of the club each year, as upon its showing here de­pends much of its later success. The full program will be presented at this time, and it will give Director Casa­santa a definite line on the program and the singers in general. 
Twenty members of the 1930 trav­eling club are still in the personnel, and most of the new men have been in the group which has given local concerts in other years. There is no lack of experienced singers. Director Casasanta said, and it is because of this that hope is high for another successful year. 
Ronald Zudeck, '31, of Buffalo, New York, is president of the club; Donald 
E. O'Toole, '31, of Chicago, is vice-president; J. Edward Phelan, '31, of Paterson, New Jersey, is business manager; and James K. Collins, '32, is assistant manager. 
1931 CLUB 

FRONT ROW, left to right: Alge. O'Neil, Mangan. McAIcer, Zudeck, Prof. Casasanta. Phelan. Herdzinski, O'Toole. Hager. SECOND ROW, left to right: Rohrbach, Ferlini, Nesbit, Schmidt. Roach, J. Collins, Haag, Dunn, Rolfs. 'TmiO) Row, left to right: Lennartz, Glasow, Brennan, Kennedy, 
T. Collins, Menard, Hickey, Culligan. FOURTH ROW, left to right: Sodoski. Waltz, McNulty, Petzel, Brown, Scanlon, Maas, McLaughlin. 
March, 19S1 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
MANION CHAIRMAN 




OF LAW REUNION 
Clarence "Pat" Manion, J. D. '22,  the campus, June 5, 6 and 7.  
prominent and popular alumnus, and  "Pat" Manion came to Notre Dame  
professor of law at Notre Dame, Tvill  with an A.B. from St. Mary's in Ken- 
act as general chairman of the re­ tuck>% and an A.M. and Ph.M. from  
union of Notre Dame lawj'ers to be  Catholic U. From his advent, his  
held in connection with the Eighty- oratorical power, brilliant mind, and  
seventh Annual Commencement, on  musical talents, made him outstand- 
PROF. CLARENCE MANION  
Chairvian  
ing. He is now one of the most pop­ 
ular members of the faculty, a politi­ 
cal figure with a considerable future  
to all intents and purposes, an author  
of a recognized history text, and a  
speaker in great demand.  
Present plans are for a Law Lunch­ 
eon on Saturday, June 6. Details for  
this will be worked out and all N. D.  
lawyers who are listed either as prac-'  
ticing or as graduates, of the College  
of Law will be notified.  
The Luncheon is suggested as the  
only possible time which will accom­ 
modate the peak of the attendance at  
Commencement, without interfering  
with the major features of the Com­ 
mencement program.  
The General Reunion of Notre  
Dame lawyers marks the completion  
of the first year of service for the  
new Law Building and the .consequent  
opening of almost unlimited fields for  
the future law students of the Uni­ 
versity. Besides the new Building,  
the College has many new features of  
enrollment, requirements and curricu­ 
lum, and many new members of the  
faculty, all of whom, and which, will  
be of great interest to former stu­ 
dents of the College, or N. D. men  
now practicing.  
Col. William J. Hoynes, Dean  
Emeritus, and Thomas Konop, Dean,  
are honorary chairmen of the Ee­ 

ECHOES 
OF A 


NATION'S TRIBUTE 
1.
 Award of the Ersldne Trophy in Xeir York; I. to r., W. 0. McGeelian, chairman of the award committee; Mayor Walker, K. K. Rockne, Frank Caridco, and Hugh A. O'Donncll. 

2.
 Roclcne in his new Studebaker in front of the famous N. Y. City Hall steps. 


3. Tlmt Broadway "victory march." 
4. A'. D. vs. Southern California— tlie immediate cause of it all. 
(Illustrations courtesy of the Studebaker U'hccl.) 
Northwestern Game Included in Season Tickets 
Athletic Office Offers Exceptional Value to Purchasers of Season Tickets for 1931; Southern California^ Pittsbursh^ Pennsylvania and Drake Complete 
Games Included. Open April 1. 
OiTC-l,  
A—Alumni  
B—Visiting  Team  
C—Optional  1-Year  
Season  Tickets  

C 7 s 9 10 II li 
A 1 
n n n nB n 
n 
N­
10 2J 30 iO X iO X 20 10 
I I I I 1 I I 
AOW/T MAf£ STADIUM Nome OAMElifja 
h—=r=iii:3a«if*=i=S^^j 
u  U  u  u  
50  Z9  Zl  
F  E  


GATl-15 
GATC-14 

Season ticket purchasers for the 1931 season will get their money's worth. In addition to the four unusually strong games on the home field, the Noi-thwestern game at Soldier Field, originally scheduled for Notre Dame but trans­
Northwestern 
u 1 u le 1 Z5 
D 
1 
D—One-year Season Tickets 
E—Three-Year Sea­son Tickets 
aiK-/0 
F—Students 

ferred for chaiity, will be included. Boxholdei-s will also have this game included. 
The season ticket includes tickets for the following games: 
 October 10, Soldiers' Field 
Drake  October 17, Notre Dame Stadium  
Pennsylvania  October 24, Notre Dame  Stadium  
Pittsburgh  November 7, Notre Dame  Stadium  
Southern California  November 21, Notre Dame  Stadium  

These games include competition from coast to coast. The ALUMNUS, which hasn't the inherent modesty and conservatism of the Athletic Of­fice, will stack this series of games against any other season ticket in the football world for value received. 
Tlie first four games are §3 games, the Southern California game is $5. Bought individually, with the twenty cent postage charge, the five individ­ual game tickets would total $1S. The season ticket costs $15.20, a saving og $2.S0, and a guarantee of good seats. 
The diagram accompanying this article outlines the seating arrange­ments for season ticket holders, alum­ni, students, boxholders, and so on. 
One-year season ticket holders have an additional opportunity this year in the option on tickets on the East side in the upper rows of seats. Alumni will please note that this comes out of the section adjoining the alumni section, and not out of that dark and bloody ground itself. 
Alumni will also notice that the alumni section is the largest section set aside for any group. 
Considering that' even the Dedica­tion game last season in the New Stadium barely filled this section, and for the other games it ranged from barren to sparse, the continued resei-­vation of this entire block from the oO-yard line to the goal line, top to bottom rows, is something for which the alumni owe thanks to the Athletic .A.ssociation. 
Alumni are asked to consider one more vital thing: Thei-e is no alumni preference in season tickets! 
Alumni obtain preference (and once more, preference does not, because it cannot, mean seats on the 50-yard line for everybody) in the alumni section. In the season ticket section it is first come first served, a policy established by the University to re­pay an obligation to the great num­ber of persons who are not alumni but who have followed Notre Dame football as religiously. The Drake game last year, for e.xample, would have been an intra-mural contest but for the season ticket sale. 
To alumni planning to buy season tickets, the ALUMNUS wishes to re­call that last year on April 1, all of Section 26 and half of Section 25 were used up by the applications re­ceived on that one day. 
In view of the existing economic depression the Athletic .Association has extended an unusual offer to pur­chasers. Five dollars with the order will reserve the ticket. The balance is payable on August 1, when the in­dividual tickets go on sale. 
Read carefully. .A.ct accordingly, if you want results. And remember, the applications are filled in order, and the last is not first, contrary to current opinion. 
Alumni are advised, for several reasons, to apply in the alunmi sec­tion, which, if their dues are paid, ought to secure equally good results. 

llllinilKllltlttMMIMIIIItlltllilllilllllllllllltll 
B" "H 
Q.... 

Since you last read of Notre Dame's athletics conquests in the ALUMNUS, the Irish track team has 
•won two out of three dual meets and the basketball team has taken three out of five basketball games. 
ALEX WILSON, Chider Flash 
Coach John P. Nicholson's track squad opened its dual meet season against Butler and piled up a 68 to 18 victory. Gene Howery featured the easy victory with his brilliant two-mile run against Jones of Butler in which he set a new Notre Dame record of 9:38.6, lowering the former by three full seconds. Alex Wilson clipped a second off his own gym mark in the half mile with a 1:56.4 performance during which he was un­molested by the opposition. Notre Dame slammed the pole vault, 60­yard dash, 60-yard high hurdles, and the half mile, also taking first and second in the. quarter in which only Scanlon and Macbeth were entered, and winning the mile relay. 
At Illinois the following week, the return of Harrj' Gill was evidenced with a 51 to 44 Ulini victory. As track meets go, this was not a large margin, only a difference of a second place. Where the tough luck comes in is the fact that Joe Quigley ran the best mile of his career but Wool­sey of Illinois ran eight seconds 

ATHLETICS: 
..BV JOSEPH FETRITZ, '32,... 

faster than he ever had previously to set an armory record of 4:28.8. Quigley finished two steps in the rear. Roy Bailie was hampered greatly by an injured ankle which kept him from placing in either the hurdles or the broad jump. Wilson, Kelley, Macbeth, and Scanlon regis­tered a 3:23 mile relay, the fastest time ever made in the Illinois armory —and that's where they have the Illinois relays. 
When Indiana cancelled its track meet schedule for Notre Dame gym­nasium the following week, Nichol­son called on Iiis fellow Missourian, Bob Simpson, to bring his Iowa State squad to Notre Dame and there re­sulted one of the most interesting duels ever seen at Notre Dame. Three records fell in the last three events and Notre Dame won by a score of 65 9-10 to 45 1-10. Howery was again the hero when he clipped four seconds off the gym mark and eight off his former Notre Dame mark to beat Putnam in the two-mile in 9:30.3. 
Immediately follo\ving this. Cap­tain Bob Hager of Iowa State, with whom Captain Johnny O'Brien had tied in the high hurdles, lowered the world's xmofficial record in the 60­yard low hurdles (five hurdles) with 
a :07.1 performance. The former record in the mile relay fell before the onslaught of the Ames quartette who finished in 3:28.4, more than a second faster than the old recox-d. 
The basketball team did itself proud in a return game at Pittsburgh and was leading by four points with 
1930-31 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
Dec S—N. D. 26, Kalamazoo 13. Dec 12—Northwestern 44, N. D. 23. Dec 15—Purdue 34, N. D. 22. Dec 19—N. D. 31, Pennsylvania 19. Dec 30—N. D. 24, niinais Wesleyan 17. Jan. 3—Northwestern 20, N. D. 17. Jan. 6—N. D. 27, Ohio State 24. Jan. 9-Notre Dame 29, Wahash 19. Jan. 13—N. D. 30, Marquette 23. Jan. 17—N. D. 21, Pennsylvania 20. Jan. 24—Pittsburgh 28, N. D. 20. Feb. S—N. D. 25, Indiana 20. Feb. 7—Pittsburgh 35, N. D. 32. Feb. 13—N. D. 18, Wabash 17. Feb. 21—N. D. 27, Butler 19. Feb. 28—N. D. 26. Army 25. Mar. 2—Syracuse 28, N. D. 23. Mar. 6—N. D. 26, Marquette 25. Mar. 10—Butler, there. Mar. 14—^lowa, there. 
• 

only 15 seconds to play. Dr. Carl­son's theory that the sixth sense, muscle-control, enables men to shoot with their eyes closed became fact at least for the moment, however, and two one-handed shots from difficult 
JOE GAVIN, Hardivood Flash 

angles knotted the score, Pitt winning in the overtime, 35 to 32. The Junior prom may have had its effect on the team February 13, but a last-minute free throw by DeCook, gave the Irish an 18 to 17 victory over Wa­bash. 
Butler played here the tiventy-first and took its second defeat in 16 games when Keogan's team flashed the fastest bit of passing seen on the home floor all season to win, 27 to 
19. There will be a return game at Indianapolis. 
On its recent Eastern swing, Notre Dame defeated the strong Army five, 26 to 25, and lost to S\'racuse in the overtime, 28 to 23. During the reg­ular playing time Syracuse, with the same team intact that won IS out of 20 games last year, scored only four field goals, all of them in the second half, and 12 free throws. 
The track team is looking forward to the Illinois relays while the bas­ketball five' will close its season against Marquette, at Milwaukee, Butler at Indianapolis, and Iowa at Iowa Citv. 
March, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
•tiitiitiirtililliiiilitiiiM>iitiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiMiiitiitiiiiMliinillllitniitiliMHMiMiiiHiitilimiiM|| 
0.. 


EDITORIAL^ 
Q ••iiiitiiiiiiiiiit 

THE LAST QUARTER 
Notre Dame men, time after time, have turned defeat into victory in the last quarter. 
Alumni associations and their work are not games. But they share so much of the keenness of sport, so much of its pleasure, and so much of its personnel, that they are privileged to employ its terminology. 
March 1st opened the "last quarter" of the Associa­tion's fiscal year. (Sorry, but until the team responds, the same old coaching has to be done from the sidelines.) 
Many businesses, some of ':hem long established, have failed during the year. They have failed because, some­where in the economic field, fundamentals were abandoned. 
You don't want Notre Dame to fail, and Notre Dame will not fail. Neither do you yourselves want to fail, as Notre Dame men. There is more imminent danger of the latter. 
The Alumni Association this year undertook to promote the introduction of the Living Endowment Plan, that now familiar Plan by which the equivalent of a large endow­ment can be secured for Notre Dame by Notre Dame men through the use of annual contributions, interpreted in a general sense as interest on an assumed endowment. So that, whereas the Fund now approximates $7,500, this represents an invested endowment (at 6%, to use the generous rate heretofore made possible by the Board of Lay Trustees) of $125,000. 
Expenses of the Association have very naturally been increased by the expansion into this new field. -The usual income from dues for this fiscal year, with the usual unfortunate list of unpaid members, will not cover expenses. 
The alternative is to make up the deficit from the Living Endowment Fund. 
This actually forwards a project that should ultimately do the University inestimable good, and the appropriation of the amoimt necessary to cover the deficit does not necessarly work an injustice upon the University. 
But such an appropriation is aside from the purpose of the Fund and the wishes of the contributors in the original concept. 
Inasmuch as the cause of the anticipated deficit is the non-payment of dues, the Editor urges all members not yet paid to pay that essential five dollars, so that the necessity for cutting into the Fund will not arise. And the Editor further urges all non-contributors to the Fund to send in a contribution, of any amount from one dollar up this year, so that if the Fund must be lessened by any appropriation, there will still be left for the University a sum that will be of substantial assistance in the many problems that confront the administration. 
Approximately ten per cent of the members are Fund contributors. Where are the ninety? 
Approximately fifty per cent of the members have paid their dues. Where (a much more pointed question) are the fifty? 
iiiiiiiitiitiiiitiititiiiiiMuiittiiiMiiitiiiii iimiiniiiiiiiiiiiinMimiiiiiimiitinMUMmimtiiiMiil 

U.N.D. NIGHT SPEAKERS 
People have become afraid of speeches. A number of reasons contribute to this situation. Radio, for example, brings into almost every home the speeches of America's foremost orators, and similarly brings to the great majority of people the direct thoughts of the nation's leaders. Talking pictures bring the nation face to face with prominent persons, speaking on current events. • 
Need for interpretive speakers on all problems no 
longer exists in each community. The stimulus to oratory, 
therefore, has suffered a severe setback, which, in turn, 
has resulted in fewer able orators. 
When the Alumni OflBce suggests speakers for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, it does not visualize a long, spell-binding oration. 
As a matter of fact, in Rev. John Cavanaugh, former president of the University, Notre Dame possesses one of the few great orators of the present day. Frank E. Hering, president of the Alumni Association, is another. Few schools are so blessed. Among the splendidly trained preachers of the Congregation of Holy Cross are men approaching in ability oratorical talent anywhere. Any­one who has heard the Very Reverend James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07, Superior General of the Congregation; the Reverend James Bums, C.S.C, Provincial of the Order; Father James French, for years famous on the Holy Cross Missions; Father Thomas Irving; Father Matthew Walsh, Father Charles C. Miltner, and a number of other out­standingly able speakers within the Order, will have no qualms for an evening spent in their company. Those fortunate alumni whq^have taken classes from Prof. John Cooney, Prof. Eegidius Kaczmarek, Prof. Charles Phillips, Prof. Clarence Manion, Prof. William Farrell, Prof. Frank Kelly, Dean James McCarthy, Dean Thomas Konop, Prof. Edward G. Mahin, Prof. Daniel O'Grady, and any number of the faculty, old and new, would welcome another 'lecture." The coaching staff, headed by K. K. Rockne, perhaps the nation's most popular speaker; George Keo­gan, coach of basketball; John Nicholson, coach of track; "Hunk" Anderson, Jack Chevigny, "Ike" Voedisch, Art Haley, business manager of athletics—certainly there is interest here. 
This isn't "campaign literature." These men would 
not, probably, ordinarily wish to undertake the time, the 
effort, and the trips involved. But in practically every 
instance, the men listed have accepted invitations from 
alumni groups, for Notre Dame's good. 
The point is that there are many men on the campus who would be welcome speakers at a Notre Dame gather­ing, no matter what group assembles to hear them—with or without wives, with or without non-N. D. guests. They do credit to Notre Dame whenever and wherever they appear. They do not claim to be orators nor is their contact of the oratorical type. Rather, they bring back the classroom, the dormitory, the Sorin towers, or the Corby subway. They bring back the walks around the lake. They bring back brisk, bright afternoons on Cartier Field. They recall the incense-filled, candle-lighted Church, cathedral-like in its beauty and proportions. 
You'd enjoy one of them at your meeting. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 19S1 
Such in brief is the history of our Catholic alumni. It is an alumni of 
illustrious lineage. It is. an alumni of the most ancient descent. In view 


The History of Catholic Alumni 
of such a history, such a lineage, how 

ByWilliam W. Corr/32 
At this time when reunions and Commencement exercises form such a large part of our conversational subjects it might not be amiss to con­sider something other than the bread­and-butter existence after college. The present organization of Catholic alumni on an extensive scale is only a youngster in its field. It still is troubled with growing pains but its accomplishments are already worthy of note. The National Catholic Alum­ni Federation, just six years of age, has already shown signs of becoming one of the powerful influences among the Catholics of America. 
Paradoxical as it may seem, the Catholic alumni are at once the most ancient and most youthful body in the world. They were old when the world was young and this revitalization will be aided by strong and fine traditions based upon that glorious past. The first Catholic college was composed of a group of hardy fishermen and do­mestic tradesmen. Their teacher . . . God Himself! The College of Apos­tles! The Professorship of the Second Person of the Blessed Trinity! What other body of Alumni can show a pioneer body equal to that? Where in the prospectus of any college can we find a faculty to rival the wisdom of the greatest Instructor that ever lived? 
Indeed the Catholic Alumni can con the pages of history with pardonable pride. Mention a great mind of oar earlier civilization and you mention a Catholic Alumnus. Recall the scien­tists of modem times and you will find that some of the most famous are Catholic Alumni. Kelvin . . . Cure . . . Pasteur . . . Volta! Their names are resonant with glory. 
The National Catholic Alumni Fed­eration was founded in 1925. The need of such an organization was rec­ognized by every thinking Catholic True, each Catholic college had its own indiridual alumni, loyal, and more or less unified. Yet it was equally true that these disjointed bodies failed to have the national in­fluence naturally expected. With the formation of the Federation, however, the higher aims and ideals of every Catholic alumnus in the business world began to be realized. 
Embracing many colleges and uni­versities throughout the nation the Federation deserves the support of all 
Catholic college alumni and the grad­uates of Notre Dame in particular. Notre Dame was a pioneer in the field of collegiate alumni organization. Let us turn back the pages of history a few years. In 1913 a group of about twenty-five men met in Columbus, Ohio, for mutual discussion of condi­tions prevalent among the colleges of the country. As an outcome of that conference, the "Alumni Secretaries Association" was formed, embracing the alumni associations of many in­stitutions. The purpose of the organ­ization was to gather men active in alumni affairs into conferences on alumni organization. Notre Dame was the first Catholic college to join this Association. 
In the year following, 1914, the International Federation of Catholic Alumnae was bom. Indeed it is due partly to these women of high ideals and Catholic motives that we now have the nation-wide alumni group. They placed before themselves the lofty principles of Catholic woman­hood and vowed to live and perpetu­ate these principles in the character formation of their children. These women took upon themselves the on­erous task of extending the influence of Catholic education, literature, and social work, by uniting the various Catholic Alumnae Associations. Ten years after its foundation the organi­zation included 455 colleges and prep­aratory schools, representing sixty thousand trained women, all active members of the Federation. Have we any reason to blush and be ashamed of the achievements of these dauntless women? It was as if they beheld a torn seam in the rich gar­ment of Catholic education, and, with true womanly instinct, they hastened to repair it. 
In 1919 an Alumnae Secretaries Association was formed which, in 1925, merged with the Alumni Secre­taries Association and gave up its distinct identity. 
Alumni organization is an innova­tion of the twentieth century. Prior to 1900 the colleges and imiversities with an organized alumni association could be counted on the fingers. How­ever, our Catholic colleges and vmi­versities have not kept pace with the progress current among the non­sectarian institutions of the United States. 
can any Catholic be ashamed of it, hesitate to sing its praises? In the knowledge of its revival, its Second Spring, how can we doubt that its future roll of honor will contain names as famous and deeds as glori­ous as any that the past can boast? 
PRESIDENT HONORED 
Father O'Donnell Selected to Head Catholic Poetry Society of America 
The president of • the University, the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., has been elected president of the newly-formed Catholic Poetry Society of America. The organization committee of the society was com­posed of Mr. Frederic Thompson, as­sociate editor of The Commonweal; Reverend Francis X Talbot, S.J., literary editor of America^ and Mrs. Edith Donovan, of the editorial staff of The Catholic World. This com­mittee secured a charter membership of thirty leading Catholic poets in the United States who were empowered to elect ofiicers for the first year. 
As a result of their balloting, the honor of being the first president of the new society came to Father O'Don­nell. Other ofiicers of the society are Mr. Theodore Maynard, first vice-president; Mrs. Aline Kilmer, second vice-president; Miss Agnes Repplier, third vice-president, and honorary vice-presidents: Mr. Thomas Augus­tine Daly, Mr. Francis Carlin, Mr. Joseph Campbell, Miss Katherine Bregy, Miss Blanche Mary Kelly, and Mr. Charles Phillips. Besides Pro­fessor Phillips, ofner Notre Dame men among the charter members are the Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C.and Mr. George N. Shuster. 
The society is formed on the model of the Catholic Poetry Society of Eng­land, organized last year, whose objects are stated thus: "To revivify Catholic culture in England; to stim­ulate a renaissance of Catholic thought in the arts, more especially in literature, and to encourage in­terest amongst the Catholic popula­tion of Great Britain and the English-speaking world." 

Commencement Offers Many 




Inducements 
»»»» 

June 5/6 
1.
 June 5, 6 and 7 are the dates. They are late enough this year to permit your attendance under the "vacation act." And they are, on the other hand, early enough not to con­flict with your vacation. 

2.
 The University Golf Course, which was the subject of much con­structive attention last year, is more attractive than ever and will be open to alumni attending Commencement. 

3.
 The Dbc Eeunion, the 25-Year Reunion and the 5-Year Reunion Classes promise to furnish a crowd in themselves. The Secretaries are working and the membership has al­ways been particularly active in alum­ni aifairs. 

4.
 The General Law Reunion is summoning the legal talent of the. Alumni Association for the first an­niversary of the new Law Building, and with Colonel Hoynes and Dean Konop as honorary chairmen, and Professor Clarence "Pat" Manion as master of ceremonies, the week-end would need little else to recommend it as worth attending. 

5.
 The University Theatre estab­lished itself vrith last year's Com­mencement presentation of "Jour­ney's End" as a dramatic treat for those fortunate in attending. An­other presentation will be given this year, to be decided and annoimced in a later issue. 

6.
 The Universityfs" musical organ­izations compare favorably with the 



 and 7 
"THE SILVER AND NICKEL REUNION" 
best collegiate talent in the country. The Glee Club will be heard on the air and in concert in the East during the coming months. The appearance of these organizations at Commence­ment needs no elaboration as induce­ment. 
7. The Second Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs will gather dele­gates, it is hoped and anticipated, from the great majority of the Local Clubs, to discuss the growingly im­portant Clubs program for the ensu­ing year. Developments in individual Clubs and in the Committee appointed last year to draw up a suggested program, indicate a vitally interest­ing meeting. 
S. The Annual Alumni Meeting, closing the very able administration of Frank E. Hering and marking a year of tremendous import to the As­sociation, calls for the attendance of every alumnus. 
9.
 The summary of the first year of the Living Endowment will bring out many points of immediate concern to the Association, its members, and the University. Discussion and ac­tion at Commencement will vitally affect the further conduct of this promising activity. 

10.
 The Class of 1906, holding its 25-Year Reunion, is outstanding for two immediate reasons. It is the Class 



of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University and one of the recognized brilliant minds in modem Catholic education and liter­ature, and under whose administra­tion the academic and physical expan­sion of Notre Dame has progressed to a point which cannot be but a source of pride to every Notre Dame man. The Class also published the first Dome, Notre Dame's highly praised yearbook. The 25-Year Re­union of the Class of '06 deserves not only 100% attendance of the Class itself but the respect of gen­eral attendance as a tribute to Father O'Donnell and the lasting influence of the Dome. 
11.
 Rooms in the halls on the cam­pus will be provided for returned alumni and divided by Classes as much as possible. Improvements in the system are being worked out. 

12.
 The Alumni Banquet, Satur­day night, June 6, has become not only a pleasurable event, but with the annual President of the Universitsr's address has become a feature of great constructive value to the members of the -Association. 

13.
 Work on the new dormitories, the Commerce building, and other changes in the physical aspects of the campus, will be of great interest to those who have been- away for any jjeriod at all, even a year. 


THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS March, 1931 




UNIVERSITY BREAKS 
Ab^ahdonment of Freshman Hall Continsent 
Upon Completion of at Least One of the 
Two New Halls by September; Names 
For New Hsils Are Not Yet Decided 
Greater Notre Dame takes another significant stride with the fol­lowing amiounccment from the University's public relations depart­ment. To alumni, announcement of new dormitories has a particularly strong reaction tliat is missing tvith any other buildings. Neiv resi­dence halls mean that more boys will have the opportunity to live on the campus: To alumni, this inevitably means more than any appeal; tliat a machine shop, a physics lab, a foreign commerce room or a law library can have. 
(The University must also command the appreciation of .South' Bend with the aniiounccment of tliis-buildiiig program. Last year, with economic conditions causing distress, the University ^erected the_ Law Building and the Stadium, with the cost exceeding a million dollars. This year, with contiifians even iiiorc strained in the, economic world, Notre-Dame is expe^iding more than a million dollars in tlie-. erection . of • these two dormitories and the previously, announced Edward N. Hurley Commerce Building. The employnient of local labor was specified by tlie University) --• 


 GROUN 

T
"\VO new dormitories were begun March 2 which 
will considerably increase the residence facilities ^t.Notre Dame. The new buildings will be located _west .of, Notre Dame Avenue in the direction of 
the Dining Halls, facing a private drive maintained by the University. The details of the announcement state that these two residence halls will furnish living quarters for oyer five hundred students. The approxi­mate cost of the dormitories will be ?850,000. Maginnis and Walsh, architects of Boston, designed the two resi­dence structures. 
In appearance the new halls will carry out the Gothic style of the other buildings erected on the cam­pus during the past few years. They will be built of brick with limestone trimmings. The construction con­tract has been awarded Ralph Sollitt and Sons, Con­struction Co., of South Bend, Indiana. 
These plans are a part of the e-xtensive building program inaugurated, five years ago. At that time three new dqnnitories were builj—Lyons, Howard, and Mor­
_ .rissey. Halls, designed by Francis W. Ker\Mck, head of the Department.of Architecture, and Vincent F. Fagan, '20, of.:the faculty, of Architecture. In 1926 an addition was made to Lyons Hall. Early in 1927 the Dining 
•
 Halls were started and finished in time to be used when school; began the •following fall. It is said to be the 

•
lai'gest building'of its kind in America. Cram and 


March, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
D FOR $850,000 DORMITORIES 
I  Ferguson of Boston, with Kervick and Fagan, associate  
I  architects, designed the Dining Halls.  
'  In 1929 plans were made for the erection of a Law  
Ij  building. In the Spring of 1930 foundations were laid  
t'  for this structure at the same time excavations were  
I  started for the Notre Dame Stadium. Last Fall the  
;  plans for the erection of the Edward N. Hurley Com- 
l  merce School were announced and at the present time  
j;  ai-rangements are nearing completion for laying the  
;j  foundations of this school. The building was designed  
]  by Graham, Anderson, Probst, and White, Chicago.  
The two new dormitories, in addition to the twelve  
;  other residence halls at Notre Dame, will expand the  
I  facilities for student residence on the campus to a great  
;  extent. Since the new buildings will be ready in time  
I  for occupancy in September of 1931, it is hoped by  
j  the University officials that there will be rooms for at  
;  least twenty-six hundred students on the campus at  
the beginning of the next scholastic year.  
,'  In addition to the above announcements, the Uni- 
i  versity has announced that Freshman Hall will be  
I  abandoned as a residence hall next year, if one of the  
two new buildings is ready for occupancy at the open­ 
'  ing of school. The paving of the Eddy Street road,  
f  with subsequent heavy traffic, has made the present  
i  location of Freshman Hall undesirable for residence  
/  purposes.  THE  FIRST DIRT FROM THE NEW  SITE  

Faculty Articles 

Contributions from several mem­bers of the faculty are to be found in recent issues of well known maga­zines. The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, has a sonnet, "Eetro­spect," in the current issue of the Ave Maria. In this same magazine Reverend P. J. Carroll, C.S.C, has contributed another series of Irish sketches, "Michaeleen." Professor Charles Phillips has recently con­tributed a short poem, "Kinship" in America, and a longer poem, "Shep­herds' Peace," in the A-ve Maria. "King of the Greenbriei-" is the title of a sketch by Professor John Cooney in the same magazine. 
"Euth Suckow and the Middle Wes­tern Literary Movement," by Profes­sor John T. Frederick, appeared in the English Journal (college edition). Concerning the author of this article, the editor of the English Journal says, "John T. Frederick is internationally known as an original thinker, critic, novelist and university teacher, in the fidd of literature and the arts. He is the founder and editor of The Mid­land, and is a lecturer at Notre Dame." The Reverend S. A. Eae­mers of the department of philosophy continues in The Placidian his series of articles on "Brownson, the Man." "Good Cigars," a Belgian sketch, in the current issue of America, is %vrit­ten by Professor Norbert Engels. 
Laetare Medallists Praised 

Commenting on the fact that this year's issue of the WorW Almanac, the best known reference annual, de­votes a special article to the Laetare medal, ivith a list of its recipients, the Catholic Transcript of Hartford says: "Their names form an impres­sive cross-section of the American Catholic laity during the last fifty years. . . . Authors, orators, doctors, surgeons, philosophers, newspaper men, philanthropists, architects, busi­ness men, actors, and scientists find a place in the list. One might easily spend many an hour less profitably than in looking at the careers of the men and women who have received the Laetare medal . . ." 
N. D. Praised by Jesuit 

Writing on "The Future of Cath­olic Literature in America" in The Catholic Woman, a Detroit monthly publication, Sr. M. Eleanore, C.S.C, '23, quotes the Rev. Francis X. Tal­bot, S.J., literary editor of America, as saying that Notre Dame is, in his mind, the most active literary center in American Catholic life, his judg­ment being based on the quantity and quality of literature coming from her professors and her alumni. • 
Ball Chairman Chicagoan 
John F. Saunders, senior dass pres­ident, has named Walter E. Cabill, of Chicago, a senior in the College of Commerce, chairman of the Senior Ball which is to be held in the early part of May. Cahill is exceptionally well suited for the chairmanship of this important social event, having served on the Cotillion committee in 
WALTEE E . CAHILL 

his sophomore year, and on the com­mittee of last year's Junior Prom. 
His activities, however, extend be­yond the social sphere, as he has been an active member of the Spanish club for some time. The Blue Circle also claims him as one of its out­standing members, as does the Com­merce Forum, which he joined last year, soon after its organization. 
Priests' Careers Described The Reverend John Cavanaagh, 
C.S.C. and the Reverend Daniel Hud­son, C.S.C. have been selected by a national newspaper syndicate for bio­graphical sketches. These two men are nationally-known figures. 
For fifty-four years Father Hudson edited The A-ve Maria and in later years Father Cavanaugh has assisted him in this work. Father Cavanaugh is noted throughout the nation for his forensic abilities. When he was mak­ing public appearances Father Cava­naugh was considered one of the na­tion's leading orators. 
Father Hudson has long been rec­ognized throughout the nation for his editorial work and the many, articles which he has written on various top­ics, which have appeared often in nationally-known magazines. 
Religious Survey to Alumni 
The Religious Survey, the valuable compilation and analysis by Rev. John 
F. O'Hara of the practice of Cath­olicity on the Notre Dame campus during the scholastic year will be mailed this month to all Notre Dame aliunni. An introduction of this vol­ume is no longer necessary. It has established itself and has created a demand which is a tribute to its merit. The following brief summary comes from the Scholastic: 
Containing answers by 772 stu­dents, the 1930 Religious Survey has made its appearance on the campus recently. Several interesting facts can be found in the book published by the Reverend John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, prefect of religion. 
In the introduction there are some interesting facts about the material growth of the University in the past decade, emphasizing the religious backgrotmd. Throughout the entire book the reb'gious life of the Univer­sity is carefully depicted. 
Class averages are included. These form an interesting ratio to the gen­eral student body. Of the number who answered the questionnaire last March, 715 submitted answers to this question. Eighty-four per cent of the student body were in the class that is ordinarily considered as the middle third. Eleven per cent fell short and five per cent were above the ninety average. 
Another interesting characteristic of the student mind can be found when we investigate the list of char­acter traits which the students seem to admire most. Honesty in all things seems to be the one character most generally admired. Although only 118 chose this trait by name, there were 103 more students- who chose the qualities of frankness, sincerity, truthfulness, and straightforwardness. Under three different headings there are 217 students who admire the purity of their fellow-students more than anything else. Courage seems to be taken for granted by the major­ity since only twenty-four students seem to hold it in the highest es­teem. 
466 students of the 772 admitted that they had a girl while some very few disclaimed any connection with the fair sex. The rest were either undecided or for some reason they were unwilling to commit themselves. 
C. P. Kahler U. P. Chief 

A letter from H. E. Weiss, Secre­tary of the Utah Club, gives us the following information concerning a member of the Utah Club: 
"I have just been advised that Mr. 
C. P. Kahler, who has been very active in the Notre Dame Utah Club, has received a substantial promotion. 
"Mr. Kahler is quite well known throughout the Western part of the 
U. S. A. Mr. Kahler was graduated from Notre Daem in 1904. He re-, mained at the University for one year as instructor in Civil Engineering. He then left the University and was em­ployed by the Big Four railroad as assistant to the chief engineer. Mr. Kahler then came west -ivith the Har­riman System and was assistant to the chief engineer for the Oregon Short Line for eight years. He was then promoted to electrical engineer for the Oregon Short Line, which position he has held for seventeen years. 
"Effective March 1, Mr. Kahler will be at Omaha, Nebraska, as System Cljief Electrical Engineer of the Union Pacific Eailroad System. 
"Mr. Kahler is a charter member of the Utah Club, A. 1.1. E.. A. S. C. E., and a member of Utah Society of Engineers. He is also a member of the Executive Committee of the Rail­way Electrical Engineers Association. 
"We regret very much to' have Mr. Kahler leave Salt Lake; however, we wish him the best of luck in his new position." 
Juggler Alumni Club 

The "Charter Number" of the Jug­gler; to be issued shortly before the Easter recess, will initiate the newly organized Juggler alumni associa­tion, composed of past "Funny Fel­lows" as well as art editors, business managers, and the best assistants of all departments. The purpose of the organization is to have the men con­tinue their interest in the Juggler after their graduation. 
Through the co-operation of this so­ciety the present men will always be able to appeal to former editors for aid. Once a year the former editorial staffs will contribute most of the ma­terial for an issue to be known as the "Charter Number." 
As an au-^iliary group there will be the honorary branch of the "Funny Fellows" which will be composed of all those non-members of the staff who have aided the Juggler in any way. Such men as Gilbert Keith Chesterton, George M. Cohan, and all others who contribute important fea­tures to the magazine will be honor­ary members. 
The cover for the "Charter Num­ber" will be done by Wilbur McElroy, art editor in 1925 and 1926. 
Senior Wins National Prize 
The contest editor of the Ladies' Home Jmirnal short story contest announced March 4 that George Spald­ing, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame, won iive hundred dollars, the first prize in the competition with his short story, "Running Off." Mr. Spalding is an English major at Notre Dame. 
^v%:':^C-| 
^•kJ.->^-iv 
V' ~>'^^^^^^H ^^^•tf^^ 
>pf)9^ "W 
t-wf- -ai 
tft-V"'- t S 
•^si^-iRPl 
•;>is*>' m-r'-^m 
JSyftr-^Pv'la 
'-• '^'l- '^^"'ttM 
'^tj£iihK-^^^^^9^l 
.:x>}ijh'' -^^^^^B 

kURS 
GEORGE SPALDING 

Three other stories were submitted by Mr. Spalding to the contest besides the -winning composition. All of them were written with a Kentucky locale as the background. The other stories were, "Last Man's Toast," "Civil War story, "Soul and Body," a stream of consciousness portrayal of an old woman on her death bed, and "Calls," a negro sketch. "Running Off" is the story of a little boy, who, as the title implies, i^ns away from home. 
Mr. Spalding is from Bardstown, Ky., and since coming to Notre Dame has been a particularly active member of the Scribblers. Before entering the University he was graduated from St. Joseph's College at Bardstown. 
President Makes Movietone 
. The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, while in New York City recently, made a short film talkie for the Fox Film Corporation in which he gave a translated portion of the address of Pope Pius XI., on the occasion of the opening of the Vatican City's radio station HVJ: 
Fox Movietone officials have prom­ised to send a copy of the film for the University's use. It will be shown at one of the regular weekly perfor­mances in' Washington Hall in the near future. 
Howard Debaters Win Cup 
The interhall debating cup was presented last month to Howard hall by the Wranglers at a banquet held at the Rose Marie tearoom. Members of the victorious team, as well as the vanquished speakers, were guests of the Wranglers at the banquet. The Reverend James Conn'erton, C.S.C. rector of Howard hall, was also a guest of the club. 
The Howard hall team were •victo­rious in all of their debates during the interhall season. The coaches of the team were Neil C. Hurley, Tim Benitz, and John Driscoll. 
The Lemmer trophy, as the inter­hall cup is called, was presented to the coaches of the team, who in their turn thanked the club on behalf of the •victorious debaters. Talks were then made hy each of the members of the winning team. 
President Edward Phelan presided at the banquet and acted as toast­master. He recalled the success of past interhall debating seasons, but declared that the present year has brought more praise than those of the past. 
Frank Noll, who acted as general chairman of the contest, predicted that the following years •will bring even more interest and enthusiasm in intrehall debating. He further pointed out that by means of these contests the varsity debating team has been fed •with much excellent material. 
N. D. Alumni in •'Who's Who" 
"College Contributions to Intellec­tual Leadership" is the title of an interesting report on the college graduates among the 29,000 men and women listed in "'Who's 'Who In America," 1928-1929 edition. The ar­ticle which is written by Professors 
D. B. Prentice and B. W. Kunkel, both of Lafayette college, is published in the Department of Educational Re­search and Statistics of School and Society. Among the 506 colleges represented by alumni in "Who's Who," which has been called "that cold barometer of relative importance in American life," Notre Dame and St. Francis Xavier college lead all Catholic colleges in the number of their aliunni listed. 
La'wyers Hear Jackson, '24 
Earl Jackson of the Abstract and Title Company of South Bend gave four lectures to the students of the Notre Dame Law school on "Abstract­ing" Wednesday and Thursday, March 11 and 12. Thie lectures were deliv­ered at 9:00 o'clock and 1:15 on both days. Mr. Jackson was a graduate from the University Law school in. 1924. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllltlllllllillilllililllilDIKI niMIIMiM«IMIIIMIinitn<MllltlH«llllltliltlliltlllitlllllll lllltlllMIIIIIII 
B "H 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
Qn.. lllllllllllKlllllltllllllllllllllilKilllllllilllllllllllllllllli liiiiiiiiuiiliiiiiiuiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiitiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaii imimiiiitpl 
AKEON 
A hurried note from Frank Steel informs us that- the Akron Club en­joyed a showing of the Notre Dame films which the Alumni Office sent to them recently. According to advanced dope the Club ran the films in a local theatre. Frank says: "Good sized fol­lowing present . . . films enjoyed . . . only wish there were more . . . we give you a vote of thanks . . . appre­ciate your sending them . . . will write later as to contemplated activities." 
BUFFALO Dear Jim: 
"Spring is here, robins, golfers" (Ed's, note: With our thriving com­munity snowed under for three days and the Notre Dame carline function­ing spasmodically . . . well it may be Spring in Buffalo, but not at Notre Dame.) "Last Saturday evening the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo was to have a welcome dinner for 'Gene' Oberst. It so happened that 'Gene' was in my car with some of the other fellows. We were last, as usual, and after the twelve mile ride out to the place we were going, my pinion gear broke and our gang did its road work. 'Gene' is in bad shape . . . can't run without puffing. Oh Boy! And was it muddy! We were a sight . . . our pants rolled up to our knees waddling through the mud for a mile and a half. And did we eat, well, just imagine yourself in our muddy selves. 
Here's a tip, Jim. If you need a good 'tower' just call Fred Pralatow­ski. He's a charm. Hauled me all the way back. 
"The dinner was great . . . twenty of the gang showed up, including some of our tired business men. Hank Bums took his after-dinner nap. Gordon Bennett and some of his old cronies gathered around the fire­place and told Gene Oberst how good they were. Biff Lee got his gang off in a comer and explained how it felt to be recognized as the outstanding Notre Dame football coach in Buffalo. The left-overs took me to the kitchen and taught me a couple of German songs. Come around, Jim, or any­body, and we will see what we can find for you. 
"Sad news . . , Bob Moore, '30, has done it! Pretty soon you vrill hear of the marrigae of Bob to Katherine Hayes. George Doyle, '30, gave me all this information in a letter which I received yesterday. 
"Charlie Overs who was at N. D. in 1921-22 in Carroll Hall with us has now added a Eev. and is here in Buf­falo. ^Vhen he gets a ten o'clock "per" from his prefect he comes around and sees the boys." 

Paul Hoeffler." 
CHICAGO 
The annual meeting and dinner of 

the Notre Dame Club of Chicago was 
held February 19, at the ABdland 
Club. 
Following the dinner, President 

Fitzsimmons called the meeting to 
order. 
Upon the introduction of the Presi­dent, Mr. Joseph J. Sullivan delivered a fitting tribute to the memory of Mark Foote, and Mr. Paul Martin read a similar tribute to the memory of Francis O'Shaughnessy. Both Mr. O'Shaughnessy and Mr. Foote, past presidents of the club, had passed to their eternal reward since the last annual meeting of the club. 
President Fitzsimmons took the oc­casion to thank his fellow-officers and committeemen for the fine assistance and cooperation given him during his term of office. 
Mr. Fitzsimmons read a telegram of greeting from Mr. Charles Pa­quette, explaining his absence because of business which kept him in Day­ton, Ohio. 
It was announced that the matter of the proposed new constitution would be postponed until the next meeting of the club on "Universal Notre Dame Night." Members were asked to submit suggestions in the matter of this new constitution to the club officers. 
Mr. Fitzsimmons introduced Rev. Thomas Ir\-ing, C.S.C, former Vice-President of the University and pres­ent Director of Moreau Seminary, as the speaker of the evening. Father Ir\-ing delivered a most interesting talk, taking for his subject: "Behind the lines," and enlightening the alum­ni present in regard to the plans be­ing made and carried out by the Con­gregation with the purpose of mak­ing the University of Notre Dame the principal seat of Catholic learning in the world. The address was well re­ceived. 
Clifford Noonan read his report as the retiring Treasurer. Messrs. Corcoran and Kopecky en­tertained with songs. 
The election committee annoimced the following results of the ballotting, the following men being duly elected to their respective offices for the coming term: Honorary . President, Charles Paquette, '91; President, James H. Brennan, '20; 1st Vice-Pres­ident; James A. Ronan, '26; 2nd Vice-President, T. Clifford Noonan, '24; 
Secretary, James P. McNicholas, '25; Treasurer, William R. Maher, '24; Di­rector, James H. Kelleghan, '26; Di­rector, John Scallan, '25; Director, George Wittereid, '21; Director, Mark 
E. Mooney, '26 (to fill vacancy) 
Mr. Brennan, the newly elected president, thanked the membership for the confidence placed in him, as evidenced by his election. He asked that every member of the club co­operate with Mm to fonvard the in­terests of the organization during the coming year. He further urged that every member of the club feel free to offer any suggestion in regard to club activity that might appear to him (the member) as being for the betterment and advancement of the organization. 
Mr. Scallan moved that a rising vote of appreciation be e.\tended to Mr. Fitzsimmons, the retiring presi­dent, for the sterling work he had ac­complished during his terra of office. 
DETROIT 
My dear Jim: 
Here's the news from Detroit. The good old Celtic name of Kelly flashes considerably into prominence at this writing. 
Harry Kelly now holds down the job of Wayne county's first assistant prosecuting attorney. Since the first of the year he has taken the measure of several of Detroit's most prominent criminal lawyers, thereby sending some bad actors "over the road." Harry says he's got to step on the gas from now on—reason?—^"the family overhead increased 300 per cent on Saturday, February 21, with the ar­rival of t\vin boys." 
Emmett Kelly, brother of Harry, has been sick at Harper Hospital for several weeks. 
Raymond J. Kelly has become quite some politician. He led the fight which last fall placed Frank Murphy in the mayor's chair after Charles Bowles had been recalled. No sooner was he finished with that battle than he hopped into the fray on the side of Wilbur Brucker in his race for the governorship of Michigan. With that job successfully polished off, Ray looked about for new worlds to con­quer. He was soon given another opportunity to exercise his energy and drive, when Mayor Frank Murphy appointed him claims attorney for the 

March, 19S1 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Detroit Street Railways, in which ca­pacity he now serves. 
Had lunch Avith Herman Centlivre the other day. After spending two years in the field service he has been called into the home ofilce, and is now hard at it in the production depart­ment of Campbell-Ewald Co., the giant advertising agency which occupies several acres of floor space in the General Motors building here. It was news to me that he has been married for over a year. 
Last week we had a meeting of the officers and the Board of Governors of the Club to determine upon some plans concerning Easter Monday and Universal Notre Dame Night. It has almost become an annual custom for the N. D. Club to put on a big party for Easter Monday, but after much discussion it was decided that under existing economic conditions it would not be feasable to attempt an Easter Monday Party and also an observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. So the Easter Monday Party has been abandoned in favor of concentrating all effort upon a whiz-bang affair for Universal Notre Dame Night. The plan is to have a stag banquet at the Prince Edward Hotel in Windsor, On­tario. A very attractive program is in the process of formation, including the serious as well as the convivial side of the occasion. Our outfit may be permitted the little boast that we will probably be the only alumni group to make a trip abroad for the occasion. We are not at all selfish with our distinction, however, and wish to convey through the medium of the ALUMNUS our invitation to any of its readers in plenty of time to allow them to arrange a "business trip" which will find them in Detroit on April 20, and in Windsor at 7:00 o'clock that evening. 
That is about all of the news mat­ter that I have at hand just now. If the fellows around town here would relay these items to me I would prob­ably have many more. But news can't be thought up. It has to happen and then be told. And by the way Jim, what date of the month does this news letter have to be in your hands to make the press deadline? 
Very sincerely, 
Paul J. Dooley, 
148 Pallister. 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The Notre Dame Club of Indianap­olis must be snowed under the inch and a half of snow reported to have fallen yesterday, March 6 .. . or the citizens may be too busy admiring Frank McCarthy's twins . . . and Frank McCarthy .. . to be bothered about such details as Club reports. Anyway, since the McCarthy twins have as their father a member of the Class of '25, the Editor is inclined to join in the celebration and grant In­dianapolis a holiday. But there bet­ter be a long letter for April or . . . 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

A telegram from Mark Krentzer, San Francisco, gives another thumb­nail report of a meeting held there March 3. This comes just in time to make this issue of the ALUMNUS, so we will probably have details for the April issue. Mark says: "Good meeting held today and plans for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night discussed." 
NEW YORK 

Following are excerpts from the very interesting bulletin published periodically by the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York: 
One of the outstanding social and musical events of the season in Mont­clair and its vicinity is scheduled for Easter Monday, April 6th, when the Notre Dame Glee Club will give a special concert for the benefit of St. Vincent's Hospital. An impressive committee is now busy with the ar­rangements. It is headed by John Q. Adams, '26, chairman, Harley L. Mc-Devitt, '28, Hugh A. O'Donnell, and Joseph M. Byrne, Jr. 
Members of the Alumni Club ax'e cordially invited to the concert. Mont­clair is only thirty minutes from New York. 
This is the only appearance the club will make in this section of the East. It will be the only opportunity we will have this year to support our music organization, which is known from coast to coast for its choral work as our football team is known on the gridiron. 
We are especially pleased to record the action of this Club's Board of Di­rectors in voting to co-operate with the St. Vincent's Hospital Concert Committee by taking a full page ad­vertisement in the souvenir program which is now being prepared. 
At our annual election held January 15 in the Fraternity Club's building, our present officers were unanimously re-elected for the coming year: Hugh 
A. O'Donnell, president; John E. Kenny, vice-president; Edward A. Fallon, treasurer; Edward A. Byrne, secretai-y. 
The following were elected to the Board of Governors for two years: William A. Walsh, Charles W. Call, James F. Hayes, John T. Balfe, Ed­ward A. Byrne. 
The following were elected to the Board of Governors for one year: John Leo McBride, Edward A. Fallon, Joseph Lenihan, Patrick McDonough, Harry A. Sylvester, Jr. 
The following directors are held over: Hugh A. O'Donnell, John E. Kenney, Raymond J. Scanlan, Thomas 
J. Murphy. There is one vacancy created by the death of Peter McEUi­gott. 
ROCHESTER Clinton Lintz writes: "Dear Jim, 
"Under separate cover I am for­warding to yon the photograph of Norbert Baglin, our new president. 
"I have no recent photos of myself and besides I am just a common vice-president this year and not very im­portant anyway. 
"None of the other ofiScers wiU admit having any so I guess you will have to get along with just the one this time. 
"I had a little chat \vith Baglin the other day and he is to call a meeting to take place the latter part of this week to make final plans for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
"He told me that he was going to drop you a line with all the news so I'll leave that to him. 
"Glad that I could be of service to you, and trusting that you shall feel free in the future to call on me again, I am 
Sincerely yours, 
Clinton J. Lintz." 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

Bernard J. VoU, '17, president of the Sibley Machine Co., South Bend, Ind., was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley by the Board of Directors of that organization (as required by its corporate status) at the first meeting' of the newly elected Board, Friday, February 23. 
A nominating committee consisting of Robert McAuliffe, '18, chairman, Vitus Jones, John Schindler (Misha­waka), Edward Meehan, L. A. Kolupa, Louis Bruggner, Ray Schaub, Howard Haley and Frank Moran (Notre Dame), was appointed by President Dudley Shively and announced a list of 33 men from whom 12 were to be elected as directors. Independent nominations raised the total to 42 on the night of the annual meeting. 
The annual meeting was held on the night of February 9 in the Lay Fa­culty Dining Room on the campus. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, Edi­tor of the Ave Maria, was the prin­cipal speaker on the short program that accompanied the dinner and elec­tion. Father Burke's analysis of Notre Dame spirit was particularly interesting, and was a treat to the Notre Dame men fortunate enough to hear him. Father Burke attributes the strength of the Notre Dame spirit to the "family" feeling developed by the life on the campus. He advocated the emphasis on this friendly, fra­ternal feeling in the Local Club meet­ings. Class Reunions and so on. 
March, 19S1

THE NOTRE DAME ALTJMNXJS Father Burke believes that intellect­
fSltl I I I •IMIIIIItlllMllllllllllHlltHllltlUtlltllltllttlltlltlllllllllllUllllltlllllllllllllllllllllll Illtllllll It [SJ 
ual'development is a natural part of 
the individual's life, but that the 
friendship and the character develop­
ment peculiar to the campus are the 
factors particularly to be recaptured 
by the various forms of alumni asso­
ciation. 
Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C., also 
gave a short talk, in which he cited 
example to show that the Notre Dame 
spirit so well described by Father 
Burke still exists among the students 
of the present day. 
As a result of the nominations, the 
following directors were elected: 
Seymour Weisberger, '26; Bernard 
VoU, '17; William Sheehan, '24; Rev. 
R. M. Murch, C.S.C, '23; Edward J. Meehan, '20; E. J. McErlain, '91; Robert McAuliffe, '18; Vitus Jones, '02; Slichael Donahue, '93; Frank Coughlin, '21; Giles Cain, '21, and James E. Armstrong, '25. 
At the first meeting of the Board 
of Directors following the annual 
meeting, the following officers were 
elected in addition to President VoU: 
Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, 
'90, honorary president; Robert Mc­
Auliffe, '18, first vice-president; Sey-. 
mour Weisberger, '26, second vice-
president; Eugene O'Toole, '20, St. 
Joseph, Mich., third vice-president; 
Thomas V. Happer, '29, Elkhart, Ind., 
fourth vice-president; William F. 
Sheehan, '24, secretary; E. J. Mc­
Erlain, treasurer (re-elected); Rev. 
Raymond Murch, C.S.C, '23, chaplain. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, will act as 
assistant secretary of the Club. 
Dudley Shively, retiring president, 
was elected chairman of the board of 
directors. 

The new officers will take office Universal Notre Dame Night, April 
20. In the meantime, plans are being pushed for the Notre Dame-St. Mary's alumni and alumnae dance on April 17, and the Universal Notre Dame Night party on April 20. J. H. B. McCarthy, Oliver Equipment Co., is in charge of the dance arrangements for the Club. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 

Joe Menger sends a long newsy let­ter that we know will be of interest to the alumni. My dear Jim: 
As our old friend Prof. Cooney says, "if you don't feel like writing, don't write." Well, Jim, I've felt that way just a little bit too long and so now I've decided to grab the bull by the horns and write. 
Before I lose myself in this doleful rendition of events allow me to call your attention to a very interesting picture I saw in the January issue of the ALUMNUS, entitled "The Fire of '79," showing the entire main building ablaze. Archbishop Hurth, C.S.C, who visited us on New Year's 
Local Alumni Club Meetings  
I  Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to  =  
I  Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana.  i  
I  CHICAGO: Friday; 12:00, Ivory Room, Mandel's (weekly luncheon).  I  
I  CINCINNATI: Tuesday; 12:15 p. m., Broadway Hotel (luncheon meet­ |  
i  ings—^first and Third Tuesdays).  |  
i  CLEVELAND: Monday; Hollenden Hotel (year arotmd luncheon  I  
I  meetings.  i  
i  DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—^no regular date—(call Carleton  i  
I  Beh).  i  
I  DETROIT: Thursday; 12:30 p. m., Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue  I  
I  (weekly luncheon meeting).  |  
I  DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA: Monthly luncheon—last Wednesday of  \  
i  each month; University Club, Washington.  |  
j  FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no regular date—(call Edward T.  |  
I  Gilmartin, President).  i  
I  INDIANAPOLIS: Second Wednesday of the month, luncheon, Indianap­ i  
I  olis Athletic Club.  |  
I  JOLIET: Monthly meeting—first Tuesday. (Call Clarence Wilhelmi  |  
i  for details).  |  
I  KENTUCKY: Tuesday (luncheon meetings—second Tuesday; no reg­ I  
I  ular location; call J. R. Brown, President).  i  
I  LOS ANGELES: Monthly dinner meeting; no regular location—(call  |  
i  Henry I. Dockweiler, President, for details).  |  
I  NEW JERSEY: Monday; 7:30 p. m., Newark Athletic Club, Newark  |  
:  —(monthly meeting—^first Monday).  I  
I  NEW YORK CITY: Thursday; Fraternity Club, 22 E. 38th Street—  |  
I  (weekly luncheon).  i  
I  NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Tuesday; noon. Grill Room, Fairmount  |  
I  Hotel, San Francisco—(monthly luncheon—first Tuesday).  i  
I  ROCHESTER: Meetings twice monthly. Columbus Club. Call Norbert  |  
I  Baglin, 25 Amett Blvd.  |  
I  SYRACUSE: Wednesday; 12:15 p. m., Schraft's—monthly luncheon—  I  
I  second Wednesday).  i  
I  TOLEDO: First Sunday of the month—Mass 8:30, Cathedral Chapel,  |  
I  followed by breakfast, University Club.  I  
I  UTAH: Tuesday, University Club, Salt Lake City—(monthly luncheon  |  
I  —^first Tuesday).  I  
I  WABASH VALLEY: Four times' yearly—January, April, October,  |  
i  December—^Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Ind.—(call Francis Watson,  |  
i  President, for details).  |  
I  WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA: Thursdays; 12:15, McCreerys Dining  |  
I  -Room, Sixth Ave. and Wood St., Pittsburgh—(weekly luncheons).  |  

Day of last year minutely described 
RltlllllllMilil""**!'"""'"""'*'""**'""*"'*"'"**"*'""**'""**"*'"*"*""""""""*" ••"••• itiimiiiiiiiilSl 
March, 1931 THE NOTBE DAHE ALUMNUS 
the fire. While walking through the campus, the Archbishop said, he dis­covered smoke coming-out from under the roof and dispatched two youths post haste to try and extinguish it. Finding it necessary to crawl through a window to a point of vantage on top of the roof the lads fought the flames until they were almost over­come. When they discovered that all avenues of escape were cut off they slid down a pipe, barely escaping with their lives. The congenial Archbishop said that the two lads never forgot that errand. 
We were very fortunate here dur­ing the past successful football season in getting one of the local broadcast­ing stations to hook up with N. B. C. and get us the S. M. U., Northwes­tern, Army and California games— and believe me the natives here were rooting straight through for N. D. 
On the eve of the Army game we called a meeting in the Egyptian Boom of the Gunter Hotel and lis­tened to the Notre Dame songs during the Armour hour — they sounded mighty good down here. One of the chief attractions was the presence of an alumnus who hadn't attended a Notre Dame gathering in twenty-five years. He was the Reverend Henry Kemper, of Kerrville, Texas, formerly of Chicago. Since leaving Notre Dame Father Kemper made his studies for the priesthood in Some, and on being ordained came to Kerr­ville where he had no opportunity of attending a Notre Dame gathering. 
Others who were seen at the meet­ing were Hugh J. Farrell, '18, of Rochester, N. Y., who is now living here at 528 W. Summit Ave., San An­tonio. Clem Haggerty, '22, formerly of South Bend, and a cousin of Father Conn Haggerty of St. Ed­ward's University in Austin, has hung out his shingle at 1913 New Alamo National Bank Bldg. Al Heck, '18, has likewise hung out his shingle at 312 Western National Bldg.; Arthur Burkert, '30, formely of Indianapolis, is now living at 116 W. Hiiisache St.; Bat Corrigan, '09, is one of the city's prominent attorneys; Harold Tynan, '26, a junior engineer at the Public Service Co.; Leonard Mark Hess, '25, who spends half of his time on his dad's ranch, 300 miles west of here; William V. Dielmann, '25, who is with his dad in the construction business; Michael A. Needhara, Jr., who holds down a prominent position in the City Hall, and Kirwin Williams, '27, who is with his dad in the clothing business in the Gunter Hotel. 
Early in March we will hold our annual election of officers, after which ive will make plans for the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. The natives here recall mth pleasure the enjoyable party held on that occasion last year. 
During the last few months I heard from Tom Aheam, New York; John Snakard, Albert J. de lorenzi and. Frank McCullough of Dallas; Joseph Daley Shelly, Chicago; Fred Link, Nor^valk, Ohio; Bob Howland, St. Louis, and Melvin Bohrbach of Crown Point, Ind., and Chas. (Barney) Mc-Gonagle from somewhere in Ohio. Frank McCullough, formerly a pro­fessor at Notre Dame and more re­cently of the Central Power and Light Co. here, has been transferred to Dal­las. Find enclosed clipping. He is quite an actor. (Enclosed was clii>-. ping and pictures of Frank and an article containing the information that Frank took one of the leading roles in a theatrical presentation given by the Dramateur Guild of Dallas.) 
Now, Jim, drop me a line real soon and remember me to all my friends at Notre Dame. 
Your old pal, 
Joe Menger. 

TOLEDO "The Easter Dance here is a com­plete success. The dance is still five weeks off and the tickets are gone and paid for. Art Schmitt offered Ben Resting ten gallons of gas and an oil change if he could get an ex­tra ticket. "The Sunday meeting is proving to be a good idea. The attendance at the last three meetings has averaged twenty percent, which is not bad. Even those who go to a later Mass come for berakfast. Last Sunday we had two Michigan men in the seats with us. "Plans are coming along for the Universal N. D. Night program. It is set now for the University Club. Outside speakers, food and what have we." Bob Andrews." 
BOOKS 

TALES OF ROD AND GUN, by Harry McGuire, '25, New York, Macmillan Co. $2.50. 
Harry McGuire, '25, the present editor of Outdoor Life, and an ardent sportsman, has collected a series of hunting and fishing tales that smack of the real flavor of the field and stream. Only those who are as much in love with the subject as Harry Mc­Guire can really appreciate the excel­lent taste he displayed in his selec­tions. His is the first published an­thology of rod and gun stories in America. Many well known and oft accepted authors are presented: Archibald Rntledge, Rex Beach, Zane Grey, T. Norris Longstreth, Stuart Edward White, Richard Halliburton, and others. 
An elephant hunt that will raise the most languid of hairs is "Tembo," by Ben Burbridge. The great brown bear of Alaska is brought down in a tale by Van Campen Heilner. It is guaranteed to make one's fingers itch for the trigger and stock. Tuna and salmon and steelheads are successfully fought and landed; ptarmigan are bagged; wily, sensitive deer are trailed through swamp and over hills; ducks zoom overhead; and the lion 
Harry McGuire had a good idea in mind and carried it out with discern­ing taste. The illustrations are fas­cinating, particularly that of the frontispiece. It is a really beautiful etching of canvasback ducks in flight, by Richard E. Bishop, and is called "Over the Sun." 


LAST CALL FOR NOMINATIONS 
March 30 is the deadline for re­ports of the Nominating Committees. 
This, then, becomes the last notice to the membership at large regarding suggestions to members of the Com­mittees. The only remaining re­course is the provision for independ­ent nomination of candidates outside the official slates, by twenty-five or more members, not more than ten of whom shall reside in the same county. 
The Editor has every reason to be­lieve, from correspondence, that the Committees this year have given to the task of nominating national of­ficers all of the ability inherent in their personnel, and the announce­ment of the slates in the April is­sue ought to be of general interest. 
The Committees are: 
Joseph J. Sullivan, '01,139 N. Clark St., Chicago, chairman; Frank P. Burke, '03, 2109 Grand Ave., Milwau­kee, Wis.; and Ray T. Miller, '14, Prosecuting Attorney, Cleveland, O. 
Joseph Byrne, Jr., '15, 45 Clinton St., Newark, N. J., chairman; Keene Fitzpatrick, '11, 820 Kohl Bldg., San Francisco, Calif.; and Henry G. Hogan, '04, 1221 RudissU Blvd., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Nominations will appear in the April and May ALUMNUS and bal­lots will be mailed out before May 20. 
Nanovic With New Magazine ful work in that field, the cultural ried on in their respective fields and value of the particular studies to be offer whatever counsel and advice 
College Stories, the newest maga­pursued inr it, the advice of teachers may be desired. Meantime, the zine to enter the college field, honors and of parents. In order to facilitate Dean of the college has offered to Notre Dame in its first issue by dedi­the making of this choice, a special consult with any sophomore on this cating it to this school. It will be on convocation will be called during the matter during his regular office hours, sale April 1. With a cover of blue latter part of March. At this time i. e., daily, except Saturday and Sun­and gold, and a feature article, "Notre the various heads of departments will day, between one thirty and two Dame, College of the Masses," by explain the nature of the work car­thirty o'clock. 

John L. Nanovic, editor of the Jug­gler last year, it makes an auspicious start. 
The article on Notre Dame is com­

THE DIX REUNION PROGRAM 
plete in every detail, containing, in addition to the history of the school, The line of years at the top marffin deaianatet the yeara in which reunions are held. The column of fioures doum the left maroin designatea the class year or year of ffraduation.
list of expenses and other information for prospective students, school songs, 

1931 19321933 19341935 193619371938 193911940 1941 1942 1943 1944 
yells, and so on. 

1939 1939 
Contributions for various depart­1938 1938 ments of the new magazine have been 1937 1937 submitted by campus writers, and at 
1936 1936 1935 1935 
least one, Louis Hasley, is certain of 

1934 1934 
publication, having already received 1933 1933 a check for the material submitted. 1932 1932 1932 1931 1931 1931 1930 1930 1930 
1929 

1929 1929 1929 
Academic Notes 
1928 

1928 1928 1928 
Final grades of the semester ex­1927 1927 1927 1927 
1926 

aminations show that in the entire 1926 1926 1926 1926 
1925 

1925 1925 1925 
college only 31 students were placed 
1924 

1924 1924 1924 
on probation for the fir-t time, that 1923 
1923 1923 1923 
14 were continued on probation, and 1922 1922 1922 1922 
1921 

that 32 were dismissed for low schol­1921 1921 1921 
1920 

1920 1920 1920 
arship. In proportion to the total 
1919 

1919 1919 1919 
number of students in the college, it 1918 
1918 1918 1918 1918 
1917 1916 

may be said that this indicates the 1917 1917 1917 1917 
highest general level of scholastic ex­1916 1916 1916 
1915 

1915 1915 
cellence, and therefore, presumably, 1914 1915 
1914 1914 1914 1914 
the best spirit of study in several 1913 
1913 1913 1913 1913 
1912 
years. 'While this is, of course, 

1912 1912 1912 1912 
1911 

reason for congratulation on the part 1911 1911 1911 
1910 

of the Faculty, it will be well to re­1909 1910 1910 1910 1910 
1909 1909 1909 1909 
member the necessity of maintaining 1908 
1908 1908 1908 1908 
1907 
the qualitative as well as the quanti­

1907 1907 1907 1907 tative standard of scholarship re­1906 1906 1906 1906 
1906 
1905 

quired for continued candidacy for 1904 1905 1905 1905 
1904 1904 1904 
the bachelor's degree. The tempta­1903 
1903 1903 1903. 
1902 
tion of the beautiful days of early 

1901 1902 1902 1902 
spring is universally a spirit of dolce 1901 1901 1901 
1900 

far niente. 1899 1900 1900 1900 1898 1899 1899 1899 1897 1898 1898 1898 1896 1897 1897 
As indicated in the University 1895 1896 1896 1896 bulletin, each student having sopho­1894 1895 1895 1895 
1893 1894 1894 1894 1894 
more standing is required, before 

1892 1893 1893 1893 1893 
entering upon the work of the junior 

1891 1892 1892 1892 1892 
year, to elect a major subject, i. e., 1890 1891 1891 1891 to signify in what particular depart­1889 1890 1890 1890 1890 ment he wishes to undertake work of 
1888 1889 1889 1889 1889 1887 1888 1888 1888 1888 
a more specialized and concentrated 

1886 1887 1887 
1887 1887 
nature than is allowed during the 1885 1886 1886 1886 1886 first two years of college work. To 1884 1885 1885 1885 1885 
1883 1884 1884 
make this choice wisely, many things 1882 1884 
1883 1883 1883 1883 
should be carefully considered, such 
1881 

1882 1882 1882 1882 
as one's special tastes and abilities, 1880 1881 
1881 1881 1881 
1879 1878 

the relation of the field to be chosen 1880 1880 1880 
1879 18781 1878 
with the vocation to be followed in 18791 1879 
later life, the probability of success­

March, 19S1 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
0" •llltllllilllllllllllllllllll 
3-lillllllllllilll 
Deaths 
-« 

At the beginning of his career death took one of the best loved of Notre Dame alunmi. Dr. JOHN WEIBEL, '25, son of Dr. and Mrs. Elmer Weibel of Erie, Pa., died Feb­ruary 17, in Mercy hospital, Pitts­burgh, following an operation for ap­pendicitis, performed February 10. 
Within a few months he would have finished serving his intemeship in Mercy hospital, and would have be­come a full-fledged member of the medical profession, following in the footsteps of his father.' 
John Weibel was graduated from Central High School, Erie. He en­tered Notre Dame and played guard on the famous "Four Horsemen" eleven which gave the Fighting Irish one of the greatest records produced by any football team. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1925, John served as assistant coach at Duquesne Univer­sity, Pittsburgh, and in 192S went to Vanderbilt University at Nashville, Tenn., where he completed his medi­cal education in June 1930. 
He entered Mercy hospital last summer to serve as an interne for a year, and was following his duty when he was stricken, and was op­erated upon for appendicitis. 
Though he did not rally as e.K­pected, his condition seemed to im­prove over the week-end, to such an extent that his father. Dr. Elmer Weibel returned home Sunday night, confident that his son would recover. 
On Monday his condition took a turn for the worse, and he died at 
10:00A. M. Tuesday from peritonitis. 
John Weibel learned his football 

. . . theory and practice . . . under 
the tutelage of Knute Eockne, and 
played during the seasons of 1922­
'23 and '24, playing at left guard, 
with Noble Kizer, now head coach at 
Purdue, playing at right guard. 
He served as line coach, as assist­ant to old teammate, Elmer Layden, at Duquesne, during the season of 1927, and left there for Vanderbilt to complete the medical studies he had undertaken. 
John Weibel's death came as a shock to sports followers everywhere and especially to his many friends throughout the country. His death is the first to break the bonds that linked the members of one of the greatest, and perhaps the most color­ful football team of all time — the "Four Horsemen" of Notre Dame. 

^THE AbUMNr 
Adam Walsh, '25, Elmer Layden, '25, Joe Bach, '26, and Tom Barber, '24, teammates and classmates of John's, served as pall-bearers, to­gether with Dr. Norbert Gannon, Dr. Harold Vogel and Dr. James Stark, of Mercy Hospital. As the proces­sion was leaving St. Peter's cathedral the organist played the Notre Dame Victory March. 
John Weibel was a real Notre Dame man, and he takes his place among her immortals. 
Word has just been received of the death of JOSEPH L. HEPBURN, '87­'89, of Detroit, Mich. According to the reports Mr. Hepburn died May 3, 1930. We regret that we have no details. He was a member of Notre Dame's first football team. 
Eev. John MacNamara has kindly supplied the Office with some details concerning the death of ET. EEV. MSGR. FRANCIS J. VAN ANT­WEEP, LL.D. '15, who passed away May 25, 1930. He died in Providence Hospital, Detroit several days after an operation. 
Father Van Antwerp was bom in Detroit, April 22, 1S58. He received his education with the Christian Brothers; entered Assumption Col­lege, Sandwich, .Ontario and was graduated from there in 1876. He made his Seminary course at St. Mary's, Baltimore, finishing in 1880 and being too young for ordination, was obliged to wait a year, being ordained to the priesthood in Assump­tion College in 1881. 
Most of his priestly life was spent as founder and pastor of the parish of Our Lady of the Most Holy Eosary, Detroit. He was known and loved throughout the city. His reputation spread far beyond Detroit, and he be­came one of the most widely-known priests in the country. Besides his degree which he received at Notre Dame he received the Degree of S.T.D., from St. Mary's, Baltimore, and was created Domestic Prelate in 1918 by Pope Benedict XV. and pro­moted to the ranks of Prothonotary Apostolic ad in Star in 1923 by Pope Pius XI. At the time of his death he was Vicar-General of Detroit Dio­cese and held many other offices and honors. His greatest work, perhaps, was his interest and work with boys and more than fifty boys became priests through his (Urection and ef­forts. 
He was truly a great priest, and his power for good reached to every branch of the community in which he lived and worked regardless of race or creed. 
Death came suddenly to GERARD 
B. KEEMP, '24, youngest son of Mr. and Mrs. Felix P. Kremp, 1242 Hfll Eoad, Reading, Pa., November 26., following an operation for thyroid trouble. Mr. Kremp for the last few years was superintendent of the paint department of Valentine & Co., New York. 
He was bom in Reading, Pa., and began his school career in St. Peter's Catholic Parochial School. He was graduated from high school with dis­tinction in the Latin scientific course. He received his degree from Notre Dame in 1924. 
Mr. Kremp was a member of the American Chemical Society, Chem­ists' Club, Boosters' Club and the Knights of Columbus Council of Notre Dame. 
Besides his parents he is survived by three brothers, Felix Kremp, Jr., of New Kensington, Pa., ROBERT B. 
N. D. '21, and FERDINAND KREMP, '25, and one sister, Catharine Kremp, all of Reading. 
The ALUMNUS regrets to an­nounce the death of NORMAN STEY­SKAL, '27, of Fort Bayard, New Mexico. 
MAXWELL LANGTON NIKART, Ex '27, son of Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Nikart, 814 Arch -4.ve., died Febru­ary 1, at Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago, of injuries received in an auto accident in South Bend, Novem­ber 23. 
He is survived by his parents, one brother, Raymond, and an aunt, Mrs. Nora Houston, all of South Bend. 
He was bom in South Bend, No­vember 1,1905, and lived in that city all his life. He was graduated from South Bend High School in 1923, and attended Notre Dame from '24-'27. Until the time of the accident he was employed by Kennedy Radio Co. 
Word has been received of the death of JOHN B. RENO, former regis­trar of St. Louis University Law School, and formerly an instructor at Notre Dame. Mr. Reno was graduated from St. Louis University in 1895, and later studied law in Washington uni­versity. He was an instructor at Notre Dame from 1902 to 1906, leav­ing for St. Louis in 1907. 
Mr. Reno was 58 years old, and died as the result of pneumonia. 
r 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK McSOKLEY, '25, Pittsburgh, Pa;, announced the 
Births Personals
arrival of a daughter six months ago, 
but apparently the announcement 
"Please permit me to report the re­ception of a Tvonderful birthday pres­ent on January 20th in the form of new Pauline Mae," writes HARRY W. ZOLPER, '04, Rapid City, South Dakota. "She increases our family to one boy, and two girls." 
Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C, from Brooldand, D. C, writes: "I have only one item of news to send you this time and that is that my brother JOE SHEEHAN, of the Class of '24, wrote me last October 18., that he was the proud father of T. Joseph, Jr., and ex­pects to have his name among N. D. alumni twenty-two or twenty-three years hence." 
Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND F. KO­HIN, '24, of Chicago, are the proud parents of a son, March 2. This comes from Ray Hoyer, the uncle. 
Prom 'way down in New Orleans comes the interesting news that CHARLES DE LA VERGNE, '25, is a proud father. It's a boy! Cyp Sporl, who contributed the informa­tion for this column didn't give the date of the great day. 
Paul Romweber paid the Alumni Office a \-isit recently and told us about Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HILLEN­BRAND'S ('25) new daughter, who, by the way, is a year old . . . Why do Classmates insist on holding out? 
Mr. and Mrs. VICTOR LEMMER, '26, announce the arrival of Marianne Boyce Lemmer, on January 17. In the same letter telling of the "blessed event" Vic asks to be put on the mail­ing list of the Religioits Bulletin. 
Maureen Fagan is the name . . . Tuesday, March 3 is the date . . . Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT FRANCIS FAGAN are the parents. Vince is a member of the Class of '20. He has his architect headquarters in South Bend and is a member of the faculty at Notre Dame. 
Class of '25 . . . listen to this! Mr. and Mrs. FRANK MCCARTHY, '25, are the parents of TWIN DAUGHTERS, bom the first week in March. Paul Romweber, another member of the Class of '25, is the Godfather. In spite of that we pre­dict a bright future for the McCarthy twins. Frank and his chums are liv­ing in Indianapolis . . . and is the Alumni Secretary ever proud to be a member of that GREAT Class of '25! 
never got as far as the Alumni Office. 
It took Paul Romweber, messenger of great tidings, to give us the dope. 
Engagements

I I 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold N. King of Detroit, Mich, announce the engage­ment of their daughter, Nathalie, to Dr. HARVEY FRANCIS BROWN, '24, also of Detroit, son of Mr. and Mrs. Martin B. Brown, of Youngs­town. 
Miss En g is a graduate of the Sacred Heart college, Manhattanville, New York City. Harvey is practic­ing medicine in Detroit, and will be remembered as the Captain of the 1923 Football Team at Notre Dame. 
Announcement of the engagement of their daughter. Miss Loretta Led­dy, to Judge ALBERT L. DOYLE, '27, has been made by Mr. and Mrs. John J. Leddy, of Elmhurst, Long Island, N. Y. The wedding will take place the latter part of June. 
Sliss Leddy is a senior at New York university. Al is well known in South Bend and Mishawaka, and is at pres­ent City Judge in Mishawaka. He is prominent in dramatic circles. 
Paul Romweber also contributes the announcement of the approaching marriage of WILLIAM DURCAN, e.\-. '21. According to Paul, Bill will sign on the dotted line this week in New York. 
I Man-iages \ 
i « 
Mrs. Stella M. Watson announces the marriage of her daughter, Martha Grace, to EDWARD THOMAS LY­ONS, Jr., '25, on Saturday, January 31, in Lansing, Michigan. (Ed's, note: Class of '25 is rapidly being mowed down!) 
Rumor has it that VINCENT HENRY, '28, Madison, Wisconsin, was married on February 14. No details have been received. 
THOMAS D. MURPHY, e.x. '27, is to be married this Spring, according to a report received in the Office. Un­fortunately, we are unable to supply the name, the place or the girl. May­be he, or some of the Milwaukee crowd will give us the details. Tom is with the Colonial Oil Company in Milwaukee., 
1880-1885 

Prof. Robert M. Anderson, '83, Circle-ville, Ohio, Secretary. Dr. S. P. TERRY with Mrs. Terry has returned from Martinsville, Ind., to his former residence at 1834 San Jose Ave., Alameda, Calif. I do not know what we can do about the re­union of '81, as the only record which I have is of D. McCAWLEY whose address has been unknown for many years. 
The reproduction of the photo­graphs of the crew and the "Star of the East" baseball team are remark­ably fine, especially for such small prints. 
1887 
Hon. Warren A. Cartier, 
Ludington, Mich. 

In celebration of his 62nd birthday, which occurred Saturday Saturday, February 7, Colonel WIILLVM L. LUHN, commanding officer of Fort Meade and of the Fourth Cavalrj', was the guest of honor at a formal banquet given at the officers' mess Saturday evening, February 9., -with all the officers of the garrison in at­tendance. Plates were laid for 25 guests. During the dinner the regi­mental orchestra entertained with popular selections. A quartet sang the Notre Dame Victory March. 
Colonel Luhn wears campaign med­als for participation in the Spanish-American war, the Philippine Rebel­lion, the Mexican Punitive Expedi­tion, the World war, and was awarded silver star citations for gallantry in action. His daughter. Miss Nancy Luhn, resides with him at the post. 
Colonel Luhn assumed command of Fort Meade, April 3, 192S. 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH,C.S. C, contributes the following very inter­esting note: "The following is an ex­tract from a letter from JOSEPH SCOTT, Lstare Medalist, '15, and frequent greatly admired lecturer at the University: 
"'I am rushing this little message off on my way to court to let you know that our dear boy. Fat, is to be ordained in Rome on the 28th of this month, and that his Mother and Father George are already on their way. They expect to arrive on the 21st on the S. S. Conte Grande. 
March, 19S1 251 
THE NoTKE DAM E ALXLMNUS 
Won't you please say a prayer for 
the lad's welfare?' 
"This Scott family are all well 
'kaowa at Notre Dame. The Father 
George referred to is the second son 
and a distinguished priest in the 
Diocese of Los Angeles. He is an 
honored alumnus. Mr. S'cott adds: 'I 
had hoped to have accompanied them 
on this trip and to have looked in on 
you at Notre Dame. However, I am 
not without hope that this privilege 
will not be much longer delayed 
anyhow.'" 
An exploit de Plume. 

When this secretary was at Notre Dame, aliquot ante annis, he studied the so-called dead languages so long as to get rusty in them. He remem­bers that they had the monthly com­petitions, and one time Professor Stace marked him 100 in Latin. The Prof, was somewhat of a wag, but this was not supposed to affect his figuring. 
Memory says that the word was a misnomer, as each did his o^vn stunt without much regard to the others. At times the subjects didn't seem to have much point,—probably dull to those lacking scholarship.—Some of these "deceased" languages are a little mixing until one gets used to their pecular way of talking back­wards. For instance, should John be reported as compassing the summary demise of a crow, not reading straight-run as we do in English but expressed as in Latin, it would ap­pear: Comicem killed Joannes. It is the .tag end of the words that tell which one was getting the worst end of the deal, the animal or an un­lucky John.* Another fact hard to explain:—The nick-name for James in English is Jim,—^just like our Alum­ni Secretary,—but in Latin they don't play it straight and translated back it would probably be Jake. 
To revive a collection of the olden days and recultivate a youthful cus­tom, said Sec. has taken the notion experimentally to try his hand again, prudentially hiding behind an n. d. p., and see what kind of mark can be elicited from those competent to puncture the try-out full of 000s.— So here goes with a heart for any fate, without pretentions to the hope of an approximation to the quondam 100, trusting that the effort—(that's what is was)—may not be ruled to partake too generously of porcane caste: 
Dixit Andius Gumpus Minae: Quid means that verbum "nuncor"? Sur­sum dixit Horatius, lingue aliena mixta: Nescio quid it mean;—et brac­ing his ipsum contra the rail of the bridge, et manis utrisque quasi sema­phore, bespake: Nunquam; nunquam! nunquam! Quid's the magnum im­mensum hurry? Ills ne passeront pas. Hie pro tuis nusquam est, vos loony turba crazyticorum. Certe mo­dicum noblesse oblige oportet tuos habere. Placeat tuis pontem non load­it-down ultra quam 2 ton, quia de woodo factus est et hie nondum aetas concreta. Diligenter signum peru­site.* Besides that, Mdme me ad coenam vocat, et nisi mihipsi motum do, soupum spudum ivill frigidum get. Chickena roasta non erit,—^non multo, 
—omnia nisi . Quare et quae cum ita sint, A. Gumpus, Mina disaprobanda consul­tata explosit: ? " " ? ***IM SOEEY*"** Theto Dayness. 
1894 

Hugh A. O'DonncU, The New York Times, New York City. 
Just as Jimmy Armstrong wrote me a note to jemind me that the 1894 notes for the March issue were due, in came the foUow^ing from FRANK 
A. BOLTON, class of '94, attorney-at-law, Newark, Ohio: 
"I know that you will heartily endorse my statement that corre­spondence is not a hobby of mine. I have followed some of your activities in the ALUMNUS, so that I have not lost touch completely. Received your Xmas card and more than a year ago a letter, which I did not acknowledge at the time as I was out of commission «ith a broken kneecap for a period of several months, and as you surmised, the accident did not happen in church. It was ]ust one of those impossible things that no one could imagine would happen. Tripped over a chair. 
"Our class is slated for a reunion this year and I am looking fonvard to a gathering with the clan. I trust you will be more successful in gather­ing the boys together than you were the last time. I learned of the deaths of McKEE and JEWETT and was not a little grieved over the news. My wife often speaks of you and Jimmie Walker and I am sure your reputation with her is quite as great as that of the Honorable Mayor. My oldest boy and I drove out to the University last fall to see the Navy game and I was satisfied from then on that the team could not be beaten. I am going to make the race for judge again this fall and the prospects seem to be pretty fair. The Klan trimmed me once but that organization seems to have vanished completely. I will take up with you the matter of our reunion in .a month or so." 
The Jewett, Jlr. Bolton refers to is Edward H. Jewett, also of that year. He died in Florida recently. Ned Jewett had clunbed to the pinnacle as a success, financially and otherwise. He was more than once a millionaire. The class regrets his loss keenly. Dear old McEee died a year ago. I hear from his widow frequently. He has a fine family of children. They are thinking of moving from Ver­sailles Kentucky, to some place in California after Mrs. McKee returns from abroad. 
Occasionally, I hear from CHRIS­TOPHER COLUMBUS FITZGER­ALD. He has moved temporarily from Havana, Cuba, to Washington. His son goes to school nearby. I have occasion to see Mr. Fitzgerald now and then on his trips from Washington to New York. He is a fine fellow and unquestionably the most distinguished civil engineer in Cuba. 
As for BILL COERELL, of Bay-town, Johnstown, and other places in Pennsylvania, he showed up some time ago enroute to New Jersey to attend a funeral. He spent most of the day with me. He is in the burying business himself, having three estab­lishments in as many towns in Penn­sylvania. Bill dashes from one to another and is getting fat on it. His engineering course extends to those kinds of excavations. 
There are not so many more of the class of '94 alive. There are near­'94's, but not so many of them, and even they do not write much. I do not know whether they are "high­hat" or just reticent. 
1904 

Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg, Elkhart, Ind. "Dear Jim:— 
"I have before me yours of the 26th inst. asking for the 1904 notes. This reminded me of the fact that I had a few items which you could use, so I am forwarding them. 
"On my recent western trip I spoke in Portland, Oregon, and while there found my old classmate, FRANK 
J. LONEEGAN, better kno^vn as "Happy" when he was a member of the football team in 1902, 1903 and 1904. He is now speaker of the House of Representatives, having been elected to preside during the present session under Governor Julius Meier. 
"Then when I reached Spokane I was greeted by THOMAS ADDIS EMMITT LALLY of the class of 1906, who was at Notre Dame in my time. He joined the Fraternal Order of Eagles in a class which was put on in my honor while I was in Spokane. 
"At San Antonio, Texas, I met CLEM HAGGERTY, brother of for­mer State Senator Chas. Haggerty. Clem is practicing law in San Antonio. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS March, 19S1 
"My recent trip began at Baton Eouge, La., on January 12 and lasted through until February 8th. During the trip I visited the Eagle Aeries at the following named places: Baton Eouge, New Orleans, Louisiana; Gal­veston, Houston, Texas; Tucson, Ari­zona; Centralia, Bellingham, Seattle, Spokane, Washington; Butte, Mon­tana; LaCrosse, "Wisconsin; El Cen­tre, Brawley, Los Angeles, Ocean Park, San Francisco, Oakland, Sac-i-amento, Chico, California; Portland, Oregon. 
"HAEKY W. ZOLPER, Eapid City, South Dakota, sent in a very welcome letter a few weeks ago. Harry is civil engineer of Eapid City and extends a most cordial invitation to any N. D. men to come to the Black Hills for a pleasant, interesting and quiet vacation. He promises to help them to get located. This seeming hospitality may be prompted by the desire to "show-off" the latest mem­ber of the Zolper family. (See 
BiHlis.) 
"I suppose if I would run on awhile longer I could think of some other news, but I \vill save it for another story as I must get back to my law business. "With best personal wishes, I am, yours sincerely 
"Eobert E. PEOCTOE, '04." 
1910 

Kev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave, Wooster, Ohio, Secretary 
Hon. JAMES E. DEERY, City at­torney of Indianapolis, writes the fol­lowing note: "The proposed reunion of graduates of the college of Law is a might}' iine idea and I am sure will appeal to all. As one of the Class of 1910 I will endeavor to be present. I am yours to command." Friend Jim: 
Back on the one day late schedule, but I am enclosing a touch of my en­dowment pledge and that shows I am thinking seriously about being an altmmus. A number of prominent leaders in the Cleveland Bread Lines have agreed that this contribution is right in principle. I am going through on that basis. 
For the magazine — I submit that my intentions were of the best. I wired a few of the boys asking them to send on a night letter at my ex­pense. Personally I thought it quite subtle. As a matter of fact every­thing went all right except there were no well-known hearty responses. 
I am extending a word of thanks and greeting to LEO McELEOY in Westport, Conn. Leo came across with some flattering lingo, and I am hoping we can arrange to get his name in print. Since 1919 Leo has seen GEOEGE LYNCH, EED MIL­LEE, CHET FEEEZE and DIKE SCANLON. The remainder of his time has been given to his family. Last week he visited at some length and to some extent with FATHER MIKE MATHIS. 
We saw a number of the Cleveland men a few weeks back on the occa­sion of Bockne's visit to the city. GENE ICANE performed capably as president. EED MILLER, RAY MIL­LEE, BILLY RYAN, STAN COPAL. FEANK BUTLER, JOHN BUTLER, MILES SINNOTT and a host of others were attempting to line up a few new plays for Rockne. He can perhaps see some outside chance of making a name for himself if he can classify and utilize all the good things handed him. 
ART HALEY sent me a clipping from the Scholastic carrying a sketch of the 1910 crowd on'location back of "Old College" Hall. A series of ar­ticles could be worked up on the cherubs there pictured. Cherubs is Art Haley's word. I am sending the picture on to BILLY RYAN because of his interest in certain Mr. Schneider who at the time was chair­man of the Board for the Grand "Junk" RaUroad. 
Believe it or not I have already started my campaign for the Next ALUMNUS edition. In the event that the reaction is negligible this time I shall turn my imagination loose and figure out what some of the 1910 men ought to be doing. 
If your Alumni work takes you near or through this vicisity we would be glad to have you drop in for the Fleischman hour or something. 
Yours, 
M. L. Moriarty 
1913 

James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers Bldg, Cleveland, Ohio. 
(The following story appeared last month in the papers served by L N. S.) 
Fred (Cy) Williams, Notre Dame's most famous baseball representative, is seeking his 10th manager. 
The ^S-year-old outfielder, who re­cently was given his unconditional release by the Phillies, served under nine big league pilots after going from Notre Dame to the Chicago Cubs in 1912. Frank Chance and Fred Mitchell were his managers at Chica­go. In Philadelphia, he took orders successively from Pat Moran, Jack Coombs, Cactus Cravath, Bill Dono. van, Irving Wilhelm, Art Fletcher and Burt Shotton. 
At the close of the 1930 season, Williams had been playing major league ball for 19 years, longer than any other big leaguer then in active service. Eddie Collins has been around longer than Cy, but Eddie went to bat'only twice last season. 
Williams certainly wound up his career mth the Phils in a blaze of glory. Although he appeared in only 21 games, and was used mainly as a pinch hitter, Cy finished the season with the fat batting average of ,471, the highest mark of his career. He had been in the .300 class half a dozen times previously, and hit as much as .345 in 1926. 
Williams is free to get another job where he can. He may catch on with a minor league club. 
Old Cy broke up many a game at Baker Bowl with a drive over the short right-field wall. And in his prime he was a crackerjack outfielder, in addition to being a fast man on the bases. 
Williams probably was the mildest-mannered player in the big leagues. He was ejected from the park by an umpire only once in his long career, and then by mistake. 
1917 

John U. RUey, 244 Washington St, Boston, Massachusetts. BERNIE VOLL gives us some interesting information on some of the feUows. THOMAS V. TEUDEE, '16, has been mayor of Las Vegas, New-Mexico for three consecutive terms .. . is District Attorney of three counties . . . and is the father of two daughters. His wife passed away in 1926. Bemie gives us another note on OCTAVIANO LAERAZOLA, Jr., '20. now living in Santa Fe, New Mexico, spent several years in Mexico where he was engaged in geological work and work in the oil fields. 
1921 
Alden J. Cusick, t Park Avenue, New York City, Secretary 

BOB SHEEHAN, who is studying for the Priesthood in BrooWand says he expects to be ordained in June. We know all of Bob's friends will be glad to hear this good news. 
1922 

Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., Roch­ester, N. Y., Secretary. 
WILP DWYER who has been hav­ing things pretty much his own way in the furniture business has some stormy times ahead. Word has just arrived that EDDIE B'nJNE of Nat-chez-on-the-hill that he too is in the furniture game and expects to give Wilf plenty of competition. Eddie, by the way. writes he is married and is the fattier of a son who already shows promise of becoming a second Pat Harrison. To 'Judge' Jim Jones, Eddie sends special greetings. 
Also received a letter from HARRY HOFFMAN who confirms news fur­nished by the Catalyzer that he is with the Arco Company in Cleveland. 
Harry is keeping bachelor qnarters for the present at the Conunodore, his family being in Florida for the winter. He says he does not see many of his classmates very fre­quently and would like to hear from any one who may pay a visit to Cleveland. 
Another mystery has been cleared up. Last fall we met PAUL PFOHL who told us the good news that he visited Kochester often and would look us up within a few days. Weeks and months passed and no news from Paul until now we learn he is en­gaged to be married and probably ac­counts for his excursions elsewhere. 
Our lost and found department is now. hitting on all cylinders. We would like some real up to date in­formation from or about KENN NY­HAN, CY KELLETT, DAN YOUNG, LEO GRAF, and the rest of the class if possible. 
One of Dixon's leading lights on the campus brings in the news that a local boy, JEROME DKON has made good and has accepted a posi­tion with Michael Igoe in Chicago. Before taking up his duties Jerry is enjoying a vacation in Los Angeles. It is said that attractions, other than the proverbial California sunshine, has lured hiin away from the Dixon arch and new bridge. 
D. M. ("MARTY") COUGHLIN has been elected First Vice President of the Minnesota Editorial Associa­tion. The present officers, who were elected at the conclusion of the two-day convention in the Hotel St. Paul, St. Paul, Minn., are among the young­est ever to occupy the most impor­tant ofBces of the organization. Need­less to add that Marty is a graduate of the School of Journalism. 
1923 Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
Dear Jim: 
After noticing for the past several months the lack of news in the 1923 Alumni Section, I am going to chance the ire of my good friend PAUL CASTNER, and give you a lew choice bits of South Bend gossip together with a bit of information I learned during the holidays. 
First of all I want it understood that BILL FUREY moved in next door to me (I had no part in that) just one day after we did, and what with FRANK MILES just around the comer and BILL ROACH just across the street, put a heavy burden in this one particular location. About 100 lbs. to the square inch I should say. Bill and I get along just fine as neighbors, because nights that I get in early—^he comes in late and vice-versa, so in using the same 
garage we never get it overcrowded. I received a Christmas card from EDWARD D. KELLY, he of the ukelele duo of CAVA and KELLY, who is practicing law, between Indian Raids in Emnetsburg, la. Ed says he can still remember how we used to bother Father Tom Leahy on the third floor of Corby with our lovely harmony. JULIE HERZOG writes me from Houston, Texas that he has not had time to answer my letter of July, 1929 as he was married that summer and is the proud father of a daughter bom last Novembei-. He signs the card Julie, Julia and Mary Francis Herzog. In my letter I asked him whatever happened to MDCSON, and I guess it is taking him a long time to track down the lanky Texan. 
Last summer while vacationing in Duluth I called several times at SPIKE FLINN'S home and chased around to several of the jobs he and his Dad were building. After spend­ing half of my vacation looking, I finally managed to talk to him over the phone and made him promise to come down this fall. Spike is still happily unmarried, as is DON MAC­DONALD who has taken up aero­nautics. CON GAYNOB is in Chica­go with the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. BILL CONNBSS is a den­tist in Superior and RUS FARLEY is with the Minnesota Light & Power Company on the Iron Range near the International Boundary. 
As for the Valley Club boys, WALT BAUH is with the N. L P. S. Co., and ART DIEDRICH, PRANK MILES and yours truly are with the I. & M. LOUIE BRUGGNER has taken over the old Gardner News Agency, and it is now called "Bruggners, For Your Convenience." (No charge for the advertisement, Louie). JOE NYI­ICOS, LEWIS MURPHY and JOHN NIEMIEC are practicing law between elections and PETE PEDROTTY seems to be someplace in the wilds of Mishawaka. They tell me our old friend DAN NOLAN is back renew­ing his acquaintances with Chemistry Hall, attempting a Masters degree or something. 
BILL FUREY and CLARENCE HARDING are still artists on WSBT and as far as I can hear them prac­tising every other night through two solid oak doors and one brick and one hollow tile wall, I save the cost of radio operation. PAUL CASTNER, of course, is with the Studebaker Corporation and JOHN CONNELL is an architect with H. G. Christman Co., local contractors. 
I saw HARRY PLANNERY sever­al months ago on one of his flying trips from Port Wayne, and though I get to Port Wayne every once in a while I never seem to see any of the gang there. 
DAN LYNCH, of course, is still practicing law, only he's now located in Hammond, Ind., and on his own. Don't know whether the recent bank faQnre in Hammond affected Dan or not. I understand' the milliosaire owner of the bank intends to stand by the depositors. Dan might get LYLE MILLER to exert his influence m this case. 
"rVE" SHARP is also with the L & M., in the New Business Depart­ment, selling Electric Stoves and Re­frigerators. If he were to sell all .of his friends in South Bend either ap­pliances, he would be our Star Sales­man. 
S'long. 
Ed. Kreimer 

JOSEPH HENNEBERKY, who is mth the Cndahy Packing Co. of Chi­cago (by-products department), was a welcome visitor recently in the Alumni Oflice. Joe had been in Fort Wayne among other places, where he saw LES LOGAN, who is with the Vim Sporting Goods Store there. He also saw HARKY PLANNERY, who is with the Ft. Wayne Builders' Sup­ply Co. Harry has achieved con­siderable local fame by a successfully organized campaign among local builders' supply company opposing chain-store homes. 
"J. BRYAN HENAUGHAN is temporarily back home in De Kalb, IlL, studying' Irish history," comes over the wires. 
LUIS LUJAN is with the Cudahy Packing Co. in the foreign depart­ment of the Old Dutch Cleanser branch. RAFAEL "DUKE" GON­ZALEZ is also living in Chicago, he and Mrs. Gonzalez making occasional trips to Manila. 
1924 

James F. Hayes, 358 Fiftb Ave, 
New Yorit City, 

JOE RYAN, one of the most popu­lar of the younger members of the Notre Dame faculty, tore himself away from his work long enough to dash over to Chicago and be best man at brother Quin's wedding. 
JIM HAYES continues to be the elusive secretary and if he doesn't come up out of the subway long enough to write some Class notes for the April issue well blast! 
1926 

Dr. Gerald W. Hiyee, 38 N. IZth St, Newark, N. J , Secretary. "My dear Jim: "It is only a comparatively short time—^three months—^before our Re­union. I wonder how many of our class are planning to spend the second thi-ee days of Jane at school. There is a good bit of talk about the Reunion among '26 in Jersey and, in 
spite of numerous marital entangle­ments, I believe our representation 
•ivill be close to 100%. I hope to com­municate with each indiwdual mem­ber of the class within the next month. 
"There were letters recently from JOHN TUGHY and MAURICE McELLIGOTT. Good old John con­tinues in perfect health in Oak Park while Big Mac spends most of his time in Hammond aiding Lever Brothers (soap) in their mortal campaign against B. 0. Mac, I infer, itches for a trip East, but if that happens before the first week in June, I'll accept the responsibility of drag­ging him back for Reunion. That's the gist of the news from the Western Front. If ever I snap out of it and write NORBERT KAVANAUGH a letter long past due, I am sure there would be a fine note from Portland. I am, however, figuring on Norb for Reunion. 
"Last Saturday, JIM SILVER, TOM FARRELL, my room-mate—Dr. Eedmond (regretting to this day that he didn't go to Notre Dame), and yours truly, drove up to West Point to see our boys trim Army in basket­ball. It was a delightful little trip and, of course, the victory over Army made it almost perfect. JIM STACK was a month or more premature on his Daylight Saving Time and hence while we were driving through the Ramapos, Stack held up the Times Square building, waiting for his col­leagues. Stack, at present, sees no chance of his going to Reunion, but we are talking to him and before June, perhaps, Mr. Bellevue may soften and allow Jim respite. Silver and Farrell will answer I'oll on June fifth. Incidentally Jim Stack tells me that PAUL FLEMING may join us all in New York before long. 
"Our New Jersey members have been doing a great deal of tramping lately. B. K. (Wink) WINGERTER, for instance, dashed out to Oklaho­ma City for a business engagement last week. His trip was a hasty one, stopping only in Webb City, Mo., to find that the notorious COYNE HATTON had long since forsaken that town. JAKE PURCELL, I am told, has just come back from a fortnight in New England, while JIM QUINN exhibits a tan acquired on the golf courses of Bermuda. . . . By the time this letter reaches you, you will have seen JACK ADAMS (Manhattan Cold Storage Co.), who is about to leave for the West. Jack, as you probably already know, is intimately concerned with the proposed appear­ance of the Glee Club in Montclair during the Easter holidays. . . .Did you know that ED HARGAN is engaged? Ed's an old closed mouth and we can't get details. We plan for him to be at Reunion whether it be a part of his 'moon or not. . . . DAN 

O'NEILL I also hope to see at Re­
union. Dan—transplanted from Butte 
—is now %\-ith the Electric Production 
Dept. of the Public Service Corpora­
tion in Newark. . . . I'm working on 
the busy EDDIE DUGGAN. I know 
that, if it is at all possible, he will be 
there. . . . MONK WALDRON isn't 
going to miss and the two PURCELLS 
—BOZO and JAKE—will complete 
the crap-shooting trio. 
"These are just flashes, Jim. From 

time to time I will send you notes and 
letters which should, from now on, be 
pouring in. Bestest, 
"Jerry." BILL HURLEY, Saginaw, Michi­gan wrote in the other day to say "hello" and that and that "things are moving along. No money, but lots of fun." Bill says he ran into CLAR­ENCE HARDING and his wife (Clarence's wife) last summer at Houghton Lake, north of Saginaw. Also that JOE FEISKE, ex '25, and JOHN FREDERICKS, '28, are prac­ticing law, the former being circuit court commissioner. 
Rumor has it that PAUL SAG­STETTER is interested in poultry farms .. . as a side line. 
1928 

Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., Secrteary. 
"I took a vacation from Avriting the column for a few months hoping that a few of. the '28 men would respond by a letter, calling me for neglecting my duties and accidently divulge some news about what they are doing. Sorry to say, my plan did not materi­alize, so I take it that the '28 men have lost their ability to "gripe." Now men of '28, this is a serious con­dition to reach after having won the reputation of excelling in that 'art.' FATHER GALLIGAN will disown us after hearing this. How about hav­ing a few letters this month so that your willing Secretary will have something to write next month. JOHN SEITER came to my rescue with a real newsy letter from Lex­ington, Mo. John's address is 1206 South St., in the home town. John is on the faculty of Wentworth Mili­tai-y Academy there. John said he was quite surprised when he received a Christmas card from Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS NORMAN. Lou was married in September to Miss Margaret Ben­der and they are now living in Detroit. John states that DAN BRAD­LEY is plenty busy at Cornell Medi­cal School in his third year. AL TAYLOR is trying for the New York bar in June. Good luck Al. DAVE SMITH and his roomie ED BETHKE are both increasing Chicago's beauty via architecture. Of course you know that BOB FOGERTY is stUl at St. Thomas. John reports HANK MASS­MAN and WAL-i KENNEDY were 
seen recently in Kansas City. 
"VIC FISHER was a visitor recent­
ly on the campus. Vic is mth the New 
York Central so that explains how he 
happened to stray so far from home. 
SWEDE STENIUS dropped in to say 
hello! Swede is teaching in the 
Detroit Public Schools. Swede has 
been married now for about two 
years. BILL JONES acted in the 
capacity of god-father a few weeks 
ago for FRANK DONOVAN, Jr. 
"GEORGE SAEGUS \vrote from Bellaire, Ohio, where he is in the dry-goods business. George says that the old wheel of success is harder than ever to turn these days. George is organizing an Alumni Club. I hope that the men in your section will help you put that over in grand style, George. George informs us that MAEC FARRELL is still at Har%'ard, working on his M. D. 
"ART GLEASON is kept busy at Akron in the capacity of father, hus­band, law student and i-ubber man. Art's address is 978 Delia Avenue. JOHN HERBERT writes from Phila­delphia, where he is with Kresge Co. John wanted the a'ddi-ess of Balfour Co., jewelers, who were responsible for our '28 Senior pins. Possibly some of the other classmates whose original pin went the way of John's would b,e interested to know that Balfour will supply them. They are located at Attleboro, Mass. 
"A letter from BERNIE LOEF­FLER informs us that he is working in Kokomo for the Indiana Bell Com­pany and that he is looking for some of the alumni in that section. Any­body, knowing anybody who might know of somebody who is in Kokomo get in touch with Bemie at 1029% 
S. Buckeye, Kokomo. "CARL PETTERSCH of Grand Rapids, is traveling out of Detroit with the Detroit Edison Company.. " Coach WILLLAM JONES is spend­ing his time in the South Bend Inn these Sunday evenings. We are won­
dering why he insists on having the orchestra leader play, 'Just a Gigolo'." 
1929 Joseph P. SIcNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
HARLEY McDEVITT, now back in the East, gives us some dope on the '29 gang and some of the other N. D. men in and around New York. "Had dinner with our very good friend JACK ADAMS '26 last evening. Went to the theatre recently with WALT LAYNE .'. . who continues to do fine work with the MacFadden Publica­tions .. . Am enjoying my work with Conde Nast Publications tremendous­ly. It is a splendid organization and I look forward with fond hope to the future." We, at Notre Dawe, know that the future will be bright for 

March, 1931 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Harley. (After the big blow he gave the Alumni Secretary and the office force in this same letter, and which we would like to print if we thought we could get away with it, the Alum­ni Office is ready to give the Main building to Passaic as a testimonial) 
Regement your slant-eyed Orientals padding noiselessly through secret passageways . . . the whirl of evil-appearing daggers . . . clocks tolling out the hour of midnight . . . and all of the other devices that suggest mysterious, for they are hinted at in an anonymous note received by the Secretary. It is, in words and letters, as follows: 
"In case nobodv knows it . . . MICICEY McMAHON and a little girl by the name of Anne have signed on the dotted line, evidently planning to share joy and pain together. The shooting took place a-way-back yon­der on June 10th at Saint Patrick's Church in Coming, New York. Oh yes, the little girl was Anne McJIur­ray. And JOE CANNY was the best man. We also hear that Anne and MICKEY will be blessed eventing it pretty soon." 
Well sirs, when your Secretary saw that he phoned for Doctor Watson and his needle and rushed (cries of "Oh no, not that!) to the scene. The result? Just that MICICEY Mc MAHON is now located in the Cleve­land Marine Office of The Insurance Company of North America, and that he would appreciate a few letters from some of the guys back on Eighty-Foist Street. 
And now folks, it's JUDGE "BULL" POLISKY. If you hit into the Calu­met district these days and tangle with the long arm of the law you'll probably find Polisky pro-temming for he has become a familiar figure on the dais there. And as a judge, well, Polisky knows his stuff. 
WALTER PARENT as genial and gentlemanly as ever, was recently ad­mitted to the Bar of the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana on mo­tion of the Class Secretary. We hap­pen to know that Walter is going "great guns" in the legal profession and if he keeps on at the rate he's started at he will be sitting as a member of the Supreme Court one of these days. He was replete with in­formation concerning Notre Dame men and activities. 
BILL DOWDALL.for e.xample,was exposed by Parent. Dowdall and his dad are showing Swift and Company that there's something sivifter in the meat business in Chicago these days . . . And you all remember RUS­SELL KOEHL don't you? Thought so, well, Russ is with the Associates Investment Company of Detroit and the citizenry (not excluding the girls at all) are still falling for that justly-famous Koehly smile .. . ART RUHL has been admitted to the LaPorte bar and is going to practice; TOM JOHN­SON is Assistant State's Attorney of Cook County, Dlinois and has his pic­ture in the Herald-Examiner and Trib at least once a week. You know the headlines don't you: "Assistant States Attorney Johnson Grills Slay­er Beauty." Oh well, some fellows do have all the luck . . . WALTER 0'­MALLEY is ^vinning consistently down at Aurora. But it's not race horses this time. Walter is one of the leaders among the newer set of law­yers in the Illinois town. ' 
BILL REYNOLDS is J. P. Morgan­ing his way with a finance company in Chicago . . . GEORGE BEAMER, in addition to being one of South Bend's leading political figures has also made such progress as a barris­ter that they are talking of making him assistant prosecutor for Saint Joseph County . . . AL SMITH has just finished trying a murder case in LaPorte which brought him a great deal of praise—the case, not the mur­der . . . HENRY HASLEY, known and admired by. more girls in Fort Wayne, Allen and Adams Counties than anyone else, has been sitting as judge pro tern from time to time . . . And good old MKE McGEOGHAN who used our name whenever he got into trouble, well, Mike is now teach­ing in Chicago. He'd like to hear from some of "that old gang," and well, why not? . . . MICHAEL 0'­ICEEFE is the law partner of JOHN POLISKY up in the Calumet region 
Of course, it's none of our affair, but we sometimes wonder what BILL COYNE does in Chicago these days. Any information leading to the ap­prehension and arrest . . . will be ap­preciated. 
Elkhart has finally solved its crime wave. At least it has if reports of Dame Rumor are correct, for it is to have JIM SCHMURR as deputy sher­iff, shiny-badge, siren, and all, ac­cording to reports. An attempt to confirm this through THOMAS VIR­GIL HAPPER, associated in the prac­tice of law with BOB PROCTOR in that fair city and attorney extraor­dinary in jewel cases, failed to bring a response. Perhaps Tom will dictate a report on that section of the coun­try soon, however. Hope so! 
Another unconfirmed report that keeps bobbing up at consistent inter­vals is that which links the name of IVAN LEBLANC with the office of prosecuting attorney in Alpena, Mich­igan. At any rate, advices from the Northern Peninsula indicate that LE­BLANC has made a success in his practice of the law there. 
WATTS EICHEK, now busfly en­gaged with the Jolly Jungle Club in Washington keeps the Alnnuii'Office informed on the N. D. men in Wash­ington and vicinity. He is the one who tells OS that "CUPPER" (JOHN) SMITH, is now coaching at North Carolina State University, Raleigh, N. C, and has taken FRANK REESE, '25, with him as his assist­ant. Speaking of football . . . Watts causes panic in the Alumni Office with this one: "I hear that another linesman has been made captain of the varsity for next year. Oh Yarr? .. . I suppose that is an old one in the Alumni Office ... " Watts threat­ened to shoot us on sight if we printed any of his letter,, but weVe been on the spot so long now that a little thing h'ke that doesn't make us bat an eyelash. Just one more alum­nus on the trail! 
EARL LEECH, another '29er is reported with the Universal Credit Corp., in Grand Rapids. 
1930 

Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth Ave, New Kensington, Pa, Secretary. 
The Class of '30 continues to "make good" in all parts of the country, in spite of the "depression." HAR­LEY McDEVITT sent in some news of some of the '30 crowd of some of the '30 crowd recently. JOHN R. BELJON (co-composer of "My Prom Sweetheart") has been made Vice-President of the American Music Service of Cleveland. This organiza­tion books orchestrations of national renown. He is also broadcasting over local stations there. Harley says he was talking to TOM BRADLEY and LARRY KRONIN in Grand Central Terminal recently. 
DAN WELCHONS writes from Hutchinson, Kansas: "I haven't any news for you of particular interest . . , but I do send the very best of wishes for all concerned back there." 
G. P. POPE, way down in Jones­vaie. La., says: "I am trying to make a living in the electric power and ice game which is a pretty bad matter and I thought for a while that I was gone way out here by myself and out of a clear sky walks 'in TOMMY HART, '27, and convinced me that he could cut down my high cost of living and give me a three inch longer wheel base if I purchase some of his insur­ance. Says he is working hard . . . but I doubt it. He makes this terri­tory often and I see him now. and then. Had a chat with CYP SPORL, '28, a while back and he is in the in­surance game also in New Orleans. JOHN DUBISSON and KEN BOAG­NI, both of '30 are now located at Lom'siana State University showing the local boys how to TAKE law. Ban 
•
 TROy #> ATHENS 

•
 CRETE 

•
 DELPHI 

•
 ISTANBUL 


Follow Aeneas with us next summer on QUI* specially char­tered steamei'. 
Low Cost, Delightful Vaca­
tion, University Leadership. 
May we send you folder aiid •map? 

BUREAU OF UNIVERSITY TRAVE 
88 Boyd Street, Newton, Massachusetts 
into YITO CANIZAEO, '29, down in New Orleans during Mardi Gras. He is planning to be a Doctor in a short while. He was taking carnival in the 
N. D. way. JACK YELLAND, '30, spent a couple of days with me this fall on his way to Galveston to ship out for Europe and from all I am hearing it is over there. Last I heard from him he was taking Paris by storm . . . Goodbye, good luck." 

Word comes that HARRY SYL­VESTER sold another story, to Co­lumbia and right on the heels of this, Harry, himself, sends in a letter with some dope on other fellows, but not a word about his own doings! Harry says: 
"The boys seem to have a penchant for remaining bachelors, but I would not be surprised if BILL DOYLE, '29 took the more or less fatal step pretty soon. None of the others seem to be serious about the fair ladies they take to dances. Some of us haven't even girls, including y'rs t'ly. But to more important things. 
"DAN CANNON is still trjdng to get a strangle hold on the market down in Wall Street. OLLIE SCHELL is beginning to show up at the meet­ings (We had chicken sandwiches at the last one). Word comes from the Pacific Coast from BOB "ECKIE" MCDONAL D — he is revolutionizing the Standard Oil out there, but man­ages to find time now and then to see the tinmarried half of a pair of twins he grew up with. He also expects to throw the javelin for the Olympic Club come this spring. They do say 
that our boy ARCH (Press Represen­
tative) HURLEY is following Doc 
Cooney's sage advice and learning all 
about everything on a newspaper by 
working for a small sheet up state 
here in New York. JOHN YELLAND 
is doing Europe. GEORGE F. HEW­
SON, ex-30, is a sophomore in the 
med. school at St. Louis V. PHIL 
HICIvEY and DICK O'TOOLE are al­
so there. JOHN PREECE is a fresh­
man at Yale med. school. JOE (base 
ball) LORDI is losing weight, prob­
ably in preparation for a strenuous 
campaign to make, the big league; 
then again there might be other 
reason. 
and so to bed 
HARRY A. SYLVESTER." 

And then comes word from JOHN N.4N0VIC, who is with Street & Smith Publications in New York. John is putting Notre Dame across with Street & Smith. John tells us that he met LEO LOVE at Columbia 
U. with Leo looking as prosperous as ever. 
Two severe cases of Athlete's foot have been discovered in Chicago. LARRY ENRIGHT and his roomie NORM LILLIG are reported to be suffering from the malady. It is ru­mored that the disease was contracted while tramping up and down the pavements of Chicago for a prospect. These bond salesmen! Of course you know that LARRY and NORM are in the bond business too. Larry is with Bonbright & Co., and Norm with Hallsey-Stuart. Larry hasn't yet succumbed to the spats-derby-gar­denia complex, but, it is whispered. Norm has the spats and the derby. 
J. FR.ANCIS FINNEGAN writes to have his name added on the mail­ing list for the Religious Bzdletin. He says: "Congratulations to whom­ever conceived, the innovation. The Bulletin is a vital contact between Notre Dame men and the old school which seems to have no counterpart at other universities. If" a closer bond is welded between the school and its far-flung alumni, here is the logical place to begin. Only N. D. men know what the Bulletin really means. And knowing it thus, the public should seep from them some­thing about Notre Dame that only Lawrence Perry dared .to intimate on the sport's pages." 
Dear Jim: 
Some kind person sent me a bit of news about the 1930 lawyers, so I am passing it on to you. 
ROBERT GRANT, A.B., '28, LL.B. '30, was admitted to the St. Joseph County, Indiana Bar in June, and is now practicing law in South Bend with offices in the Associates Build­
ing. He is associated with Pyle and 
Voor. 
JOHN DEGNAN, LL.B. '30, was admitted to the St. Joseph County Bar and is practicing law with One Parker and Joseph Kovacs of the As­sociates Building, South Bend. 

THOMAS MoDOUGAL, LL.B. '30, became a member of the St. Joseph County Bar in September, and is now practicing in South Bend. His offices are also in the Associates Building. 
FLOYD SEARER, A.B. '28, LL.B. '30, is practicing in South Bend. He is associated with J. Elmer Peak and Robert F. Lang. 
LOUIS CHAPLEAU, LL.B. '30, is engaged in practice in the Union Trust Co. Building in South Bend. He is asociated with the firm of Hub­bard, Farabaugh, and Pettingill. 
GEORGE L. KROPFP, LL.B. '30, just opened new offices on the eighth floor of the' Odd Fellows Building, South Bend. 
RAYMOND D. SANDUSICEY, 

LL.B. '30, was elected Justice of the Peace in Elkhart. It looks like Gildea has turned out to be a full-fledged ' politician. 
• EDWARD B. SMITH, LL.B. '30, is associated with Joseph P. Miller and Francis Coughlin. Their offices are in the new Odd Fellows Building. 
Other members of the class of 1930 who are practicing law in Indiana are: MARSHALL FORCE lOZER of Plymouth, ARTHUR ROULE of La-Porte, and WALTER PARENT of Michigan City. 
HENRY HORKA and LARRY JOHNSON have returned to Notre Dame to finish their Law studies. 
"PUNK" DAILEY of Joliet, who is now a practicing attorney and also a high school professor, forgot his busi­ness duties long enough to take in the Prom at St. Mary's. RAY REAR­DON, JOHNNY GOLDEN, JOHN DORGAN, GEORGE BRAUTIGAN, JIM TOBIN and several other mem­bers of the Alumni Association were there too. The undergrads don't have a chance with that crowd around. 
PR.4NK MILLER, and old student, is now located in Orange, New Jer­sey. Frank has something to do with the production and distribution of razor blades. 
JACK CANNON has moved his trunk from Auburn to Georgia Tech. 
Tell the fellows to send in some news. Sincerely, Bemie Conroy. 





