The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
,';j ^ /; /j 
s*?m>w?''^''^-'^  "' '"'ASi&^#':'->?. «^^ 1  
^5^  ROTC'S  MATUKAL LAW INSTITUTE  MARRIAGE INSTITUTE  PLACEMENT BUREAU  
'j  /  
LOBUND lABORATORY  
•^J?^ ^  I=lpjlf SCIENCE BUILPINO  
HEV. JOHN J.  CAVANAU6H cue  

Wu,UAM J. SHERRY, '21 ..Sirst Vice-President 
WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 Second Vice-President 
EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 Third Vice-President



Zkc Notre Dame Alumnus 
VoL 29 No. S September-October. 1951 
lames E. Armstrong. '25, Editor fobn P. Bums. '34, Managing Editor lohn N. Cackley. Ir„ '37. Associate Editor 
This magozinB is published bi-monfhly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dome, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 

LEO B. WARD, '20.. ..Honorary President 
R. CoNROY ScoGGiNS, '24 —President 

DIRECTORS TO 1952 
WiLLUM J. SHERRY, '21 1001 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa 3, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28....7102 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. R. CONROY SCOCCINS, '24. .480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 .2 East Mill Dr., Great Neck, N. Y. 
DIRECFORS TO 1933 
HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39  327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis,  Ind.  
RICHARD J. NASH, '23  1840 S. Kilbourne, Chicago 23, III.  
DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22  7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo.  

DIRECTORS TO 1934 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 49 Race St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio JOHN H. NEESON, JR., '35. 37 Highland Ave., Cnywyd, Pa. WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10 2765 N.W. Nicolai St., Portland, Ore. LuTiiER M. S\VYGERT, '27 6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Jnd. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Director and Secretary 
Ballots Will Be Mailed Next Month For National Alumni Board Elections 
Five members will be elected to the Alumni Board from Ballots to be mailed Alumni next month. 
Normally, four are selected, but this year one extra will be chosen to fill out the year left in the term of John Quincy Adams, '26, who resigned from the board this year because of the urgency of business. 
Coryn Courtney 

By the Alumni constitution, the fifth highest nominee in number of votes will serve the vacated term. 
Nominees, selected by the nominat­ing committee of the Alumni Board are: J. Ralph Coryn, '22, John N. Lester W. Foley, '24, Galvin Hudson, Courtney, '25, Jack Nye Duffey, '35, '15, James McGoldrick, '39, John 
Duffey Foley McLaughlin, '34, and W. Edmund Shea, '23. 
For better identification, Coryn is a food wholesaler in Moline, 111.; Courtney a salesman-engineer of Dearborn, Mich.; Duffey an inusr­ance representative in Boston; Foley, a lumber executive of Jacksonville. 
Hudson is in the manufacturing business in Memphis; McGoldrick, an attorney in New York City; Mc­Laughlin, a wholesaler in Providence, 
R. I.; and Shea is an attorney in Dayton. 
The directors elected will be for­mally seated at the January, 1952, meeting of the Alumni Borad. 
Besides Mr. Adams, they will re­place Board President R. Conroy Scoggins, '24; William J. Sherry, '21; William B.. Jones, '28, and Edward J. Beckman, '16. 
SLIPS THAT PASS . . . 
In the July-August issue of the Alumnus, the photograph of Tom Aimel, '33, was incorrectly identi­fied as that of Bob Rigley. Bob's piiotograirii is still missing, and when a suitable one is located the managing editor of the Alumnus win print due and libel-saving apologies.—JB 

McLaughlin Shea 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 



jt'^r^^^^^ 

eAlumnu 
Alumni President Scoggins Asks 100% Participation for Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund 
In this issue of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, which is dedicated to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, President of the University, I wish, as president of the Alumni As­sociation, to call on every member of the Association for full participation in the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. 
The fund was announced in the July-August issue of this magazine, and the announcement very clearly set forth the urgent needs of the University for expansion of its physical plant. 
Father Cavanaugh himself, in consenting to the pro­gram, said this: "Notre Dame's progress depends today, as it has from the beginning, on devoted cooperation, on team play. 
"The Ifice-Presidents, administrative and faculty lead­ers, the Trustees and Advisory Councils, the alumni and Notre Dame's growing circle of active friends—all are essential to every step in the growth. 
"As we embark on the present program of the Founda­tion I hope you will understand that the element of self is permitted only that Notre Dome may move ahead, that my successors may be unhampered by unfinished tasks, and that through your generous interest and support, Notre Dame may measure up to the amazing opporluni-
R. Coaroy Scoggins, '24 

ties with which it is confronted. God Mess your effens!" 
The Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Rmd will assure the completion of the immediate and urgent physical installa­tions for the University—steam lines, building equipment, water fbcility exponsion, heat and power expantien. Only through the whole-hearted effort of every Notre Dame alumnus will the program be brought to completion, and the Foundation kept on its time scheffcile. 
This is the groundwork phase of the University's Long Range Program—Operation Digging, if you wish to call it tha}. It will assure, as Father Cavanaugh points out, that his successors will not be hampered by unfinished work. ' 
The completion of this Fund includes little anticipation of substantial increase in Unrestricted Endowment for the University. It stresses immecBote giving to complete pro­jects of the Foundation's long-range program. 

Its urgency cannot be overstated. 
Slightly over eight months are left until next June, when Father Cavanaugh retires from the Presidency by Canon Law. 
And only through the full cooperation of all alumni— 100 per cent participation—can the program be com­pleted. R. Conroy Sa^gins 


September-October, 1951 
Fifty Year Club 
Father Matthew A. Schumacher, C.S.C., Chaplain at St. Mary's College, had his own 30-year reunion. At his right, his brother Frank, of Tulsa, and at his left, his nephew, John A. Schumacher, Class of 51. 
An unexpected visitor—and most wel­come—to the Dearborn Alumni Club was Father Thomas Verncr Moore. O.Cart. Father Moore was a Minim in 1888 and is currently touring the coun­try in the interest of the Carthusian Order. 
Despite the appearance, he admits to the age of 74. 

^ Few (if any) pictures of the 1931 Twenty-Year Reunion were avilable for the Alumnus Reunion issue. To take up the slack, Jim Doyle, of Chicago, loaned the Alumnus a parcel of his pri­vate stock of negatives and the pictures at left are the result. 
The Alumnus is indebted to Jim for 
the use of negatives, and for the opportu­
nity to finally do justice to the class of 
the Great Depression which came back 
in such great numbers and enthusiasm. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


^^^^m 

Work on two of the University's four new buildings progresses as the steel. The E. M. Morris Inn, a gift of the late E. M. Alorris, '06 New Science Building, made possible through contributions of Alumni, is farther along, with all the brick work finished. The Inn is at 
friends and the Greater \otrc Dame Campaign gets the last of its the campus entrance. 
Gabreski Bags Two More 
Col. Francis S. Gabreski, USAF, of Oil City, Pa., has become the No. 1 ace of the Air Force. 
On Sept. 3 he shot down his second Russian-made MIG over Korea to bring his total of kills to 30. He's got 28 German planes to his credit as a deposit from World \Var II. 
COL. GABRESKI 

Col. Francis S. Gabreski, USAF, of Oil City, Pa., is better known as "Gabby," a 1942 alumnus of the Uni­versity and just before going to Korea was commanding officer of the 56th Fighter-Interceptor Group at Self­ridge Air Base, Mt. Clemens, Michi­gan. In the air battle in which Gabby knocked off his second MIG, • he flew an F-86 Sabre Jet. 
September-October, 1931 

Accounting Students Rate 
Senior accounting students at the University ranked high in a national professional accounting test sponsored by the American Institute of Account­ing, according to the Institute. 
Results of the test showed that sev­enty-five percent of the Notre Dame students who took the accounting test obtained results above the national median. The median was determined by the American Institute of Ac­countants after grading papers of ac­counting seniors from leading univer­sities and colleges throughout the United States who took the exam­ination. 
According to Professor James Din­colo. Head of the Department of Ac­counting at Notre Dame, the test was administered at Notre Dame wholly on a voluntary basis. Appro.ximately two-thirds of graduating accounting seniors at Notre Dame took the Insti­tute test, according to Professor Din­colo, and there was a marked correla­tion of the grades the Notre Dame students received in the professional examination and their grades at the University. 

New Publications Head 
John P. Defant, '48 has succeeded Dale Francis as director of publications, the University announced recently. 
Francis is entering private business in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
Defant, a native of Weirton, W. 

Virginia was editor of the Scholastic for one year as an undergraduate and at the time of his appointment was director of promotion for the magazine The Ave Maria. He served in the U. S. Army from 1941 to 1944. 

Eldest O'Toole Dies 
Jim O'Toole, '21, the first of six brothers to attend the University died suddenly Aug. 5 in Pittsburgh. 
At his death he was a member of the Alleghany County Court of Common Pleas, being elected to that post in 1941. At one time he was Collector of Internal Revenue for Western Pennsvl-
The five brothers surviving, all alum­ni, are Lawrence J., John, Charles, Wil­liam, and Dr. Richard O'Toole. 
His wife, Mrs. Martina Quinn O'Toole and a daughter Sheila also survive. 
1931 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 29—Indiana at Notre Dame 
Oct. 3—Detroit at Detroit 
(Night Game) 
Oct. 13—So. Methodist at N.D. 
Oct. 20—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 
Oct. 27—Purdue at Notre Dame 
Nov. 3—^Navy at Baltimore 
Nov. 10—Mich. State at E. Lansing 
Nov. 17—No. Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Nov. 24—^lowa at Notre Dame 
Dec. 1—Soothem California at 
Los Angeles 

Zhe Keli0ious University 
("The Religious University" was writ­ten by Mr. Sokolsky for Notre Dame Magazine and is reprinted through permission). 

O
NE of the major problems in our 
times is not the teaching of 
subjects but the building of character. 
Many of our universities are degree 

factories. 
Thousands of M.A.'s and Ph.D.'s are turned out who are specialists in particular fields. They know how the ant builds its hill and how molecules come together into a substance and they can read charts and graphs and tables of statistics. 

But they have not been "educated"; that is, they have not related them­selves to the culture of the human race, to the main streams of intellec­tual and spiritual development of man. 
In some respects, therefore, many of our colleges and universities are trade schools, teaching young people some technique which will help them to earn a livelihood. In a sense, this must result in the proletarization of the "educated," because a skill in a technique is the same, in value, whether it be the technique of boiler-making or the technique of op­erating a laboratory. 
To "education," as it is called, must be added the leaven of culture — the yeast that causes the spirit to rise. This cannot be achieved without cul­tivating in the young an interest in, a desire for, an appreciation of those developments of the human mind which we call philosophy, literature, history, art, particularly music, and religion. For it is by this that man is pulled, by forces beyond his strength and even knowledge, out of the trough of materialism. 
In the development of the American university, the religious institution stands as the foundation. Harvard, Columbia, Princeton, Yale, and count­less other of the most important scho­lastic institutions were founded as ad-
by George E. Sokolsky 
juncts of Christian denominations and were guided in their early years by religious inspiration. Many of our universities, so foimded, have become wholly secular, or having been sec­ularized, maintain a relationship to some theological seminaries. The Catholic universities retain their reli­gious characteristics. The Jews have, in recent years, developed a religious school, the Yeshiva University, into a school of increasingly important di­mensions. And its atmosphere is re­ligious. 
The confusion that has arisen over 

the doctrine of separation of Chiurch 
and state is inherent in the assumption 
that learning can exist without moral­
ity or knowledge without God. It is 
not so much a separation of Church 
from state, as it is a separation of 
•'education" from religion, experience from faith, mental development from spiritual growth. 
Men may learn readily how to do, but the consequences of their acts, the reasons for them, the direction that they take, are as important as the acts themselves. It is the difference be­tween doing for the sake of doing, or for some material gain, or doing by guidance, by an acknowledgment of God's intent that action be restrained by morality and designed toward serv­ice for mankind and for God. 
. The atomic scientists faced this problem when they were frightened by the consequences of their work. It did not occur to many of them that their work was an inevitable fruition of the mental growth of the human mind and spirit and that they could not have discovered what the era in which they lived was not ready to receive. They could think only of the death they wrought; in time, they will know of the life-saving and life-giving richness they unfolded. 
The religious university is not lim­ited by bigotry. The best courses in Marxism in the United States were given at Notre Dame. The Institute of Natural Law does not avoid the implications of a non-Christian aj)­
proach to the problem. The scientific courses, particularly in atomic fission, are as modem at Notre Dame as at the University of Chicago. Under the leadership of Bishop O'Hara and the two Fathers Cavanaugh, who have been my friends, Notre Dame has de­veloped tremendous power as a uni­versity of the spirit as well as of the miiid. 
Religion does not require the sup­pression of knowledge but its system­atic inclusion in the entire body of himian culture, and directed to a moral end. The religious university does not surround knowledge by big­otry: it absorbs all knowledge in the whole of truth. It rejects the limita­tions placed upon science, for in­stance, that it exists for itself alone, as some artists used to say that art is for art's sake alone. It says that what exists is for the use of man and the glory of God, thus recognizing in all that exists, a moral purpose. 
Mr. Sokolsky, columnist, author, lecturer and industrial relations con­sultant, graduated from the School of Journalism, Columbia University, in 1917. The University of Notre Dame bestowed on him the degree of LL.D. in 1946; the University of Montana, an LL.D. in 1948; and St. Bonaven­ture University, a Litt.D., in 1950. 
In 1917, he was the editor of the Russian Daily News in Petrograd. In 1918, he became the assistant editor of the North China Star, in Tientsin. From 1920 to 1930, he was associated with the China Bureau of Public In­formation, the Shanghai Journal of Commerce and the Far Eastern Re­view, in addition to being the Shang­hai correspondent for the New York Evening Post, the Philadelphia Public Ledger, the New York World, the London Daily Express and the Japan Advertiser. 
Since 1944, his column has been syndicated by King Features and ap­pears in over 275 daily newspapers. He is also a commentator for the American Broadcasting Company. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Honors for Armstrong 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association, was paid special tribute for his twen­ty-five -years of service to college alumni associations at the annual meeting of the American Alumni Council which closed yesterday in French Lick. 
Mr. Armstrong, who also is Execu­tive Vice-Chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation, received the cita­tion commemorating his twenty-five years of service from T. Hawley Tap­ping, of the University of Michigan, President of the American Alumni Council. Representatives of alumni associations from colleges and univer­sities throughout the United States were in attendance at the meeting. 
A graduate of Notre Dame in 1925, Mr. Armstrong also formerly served as Director of Publicity at Notre Dame. He assumed his duties as Executive Secretary of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in January, 1926, and became Executive Vice-Chairman of the Notre Dame Foun­dation in 1947 when the latter was organized to coordinate gifts to the University. 
Mr. Armstrong, who also serves as Editor of the Notre Dame "Alumnus" and of "Notre Dame" magazine, has been active with the American Alumni and the National Catholic Alumni Federation. He formerly served as vice-president and director of the American Alumni Council, and as president of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG 

September-October, 1951 
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., University vice-president in charge of aca­demic affairs, is a Naval Reserve Chaplain. And he'll go almost any\vhere to say Mass for sailors on shipboard. 
Frequently he doesn't even care how he gets there, as proved by the ac­companying picture. In it, he's being hoisted from the deck of the hea-vy cruiser Newport News by helicopter to say Mass aboard the destroyer Gearing. 
The transfer—one of many. Father Norton says—took place during a summer cruise of NROTC midshipmen, from Boston to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
He entered the University in 1915 
Frank Coughlin Dies 
from Englewood High School, Chicago Frank Coughlin, '21, two-time All-and graduated in 1921 in law. 
America tackle and captain of the 1920 football team died of a heart ailment recently in Indianapolis. 
Father Mike's Chalice 
His wife, the former Madeline Myers Mr. Leo Moriarty has presented the 
of South Bend, survives. University the chalice of his brother, 
At the time of his death Mr. Cough­the late Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, 
lin was chief deputy attorney general '10, of Cleveland. 
for the state of Indiana and had figured prominently in state political circles for The chalice will be kept in Sacred many years. In 1923 he was elected Heart Church as a memorial to 
prosecuting attorney for St. Joseph Father Mike and his deep devotion to (South Bend) County. Notre Dame. 
The President 
R
EV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of the 
University of Notre Dame, embodies in his life 
story the highlights of the great American tradition of 
opportunity. 
Son of a widowed mother, he left high school to become self-supjwrting and a help to his family. After he arrived at Notre Dame in 1917 one of his jobs was secretary to the University president. He graduated from the Notre Dame College of Commerce, in 1923, and accepted a job with the Studebaker Corporation in South Bend. 
At the end of two and a half years, the young e-xecutive decided to forego what already looked to be a successful business career and entered the Novitiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Father Cavanaugh was ordained in 1931, and not long after\vards went to study at the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy. He received a Ph.L. degree there in 1933. From July, 1933 until 1940 Father Cavanaugh served first as Assistant Prefect of Religion and later succeeded Father O'Hara (now Bishop of Buffalo) as Prefect of Religion. 
In 1940 he was made vice-president of the Univer­sity and Chairman of the Board in Control of Athletics. Father Cavanaugh visited South America on an edu­cational study for his Congregation. One of his early assignments as Vice-President was advisor for the picture "Knute Rockne All-American" then being filmed in Hollywood. 
During the critical period of World War II he was instrumental in the successful adaptation of Notre Dame's resources to the U. S. Navy training program. In 1946, Father Cavanaugh was given the inevitable 
His Holiness Pope Pius Xil and Father Cavanaugh. (Below) Pretident Tniman and President Cavanaugh. 
m^[fBas3S9ssw 
^S,.^i^
^Mmm^ 

of Notre Dame 
recognition of his own outstanding leadership, and entrusted with the post^var presidency of his alma mater. 
The five succeeding years have witnessed a diversified development of Notre Dame—academically and physically. Under Father Cava­naugh's leadership, Notre Dame has risen to new heights in intellectual prestige while a vast building expansion program is now underway on the campus. Under his guidance, Notre Dame pioneered pre-game television shows in the 1950 football season. 
Father Cavanaugh is a member of the Board of Visitors at the 
U. S. Naval Academy as well as the U. S. Air Force University, Max­well Air Base, Alabama. General Marshall named him to a special Citizens Committee to study conditions at armed forces training bases. He is an active member of the Adult Education Committee, of the Ford Foundation. 
Father Cavanaugh is one of the most widely traveled men in the nation. He has visited every continent in the world with the exception of Africa and Australia. While still a senior at Notre Dame, he and three other students sailed to the Philippines on a freighter during Summer vacation. His travels as president of the University have not only been extensive and arduous but extremely helpful in the Univer­sity's development. 
The president of Notre Dame is a member of the Board of Directors of the Great Books Foundation, and was recently appointed a committee member by the American Council on Education to draft plans for a new educational television program service. 
Father Cavanaugh has served well "God, Country and Notre Dame". 
(Top to bottom) Ferther Cavanaugh writh the following notables: Laetare Modolist and screen actress, Irene Dunne; Acfaniral Nimitz, Navy hero of World War II; Price Stabilization Director, Mr. DiSalle, receiving an honorary degree from Notre Dame; the Ambassador to Ireland and former Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Matthews; and. General J. Lawton Collins, U. S. Army Chief of Staff. 
A New Notre Dame Book 

The University of Notre Dame is much 
more than a victorious football team, 
m e DilHE BOOKS 
THE ORACLE, by Edwin O'Connor. Harper; 216 pp. $1.75. 
The first novel of Edwin O'Connor, '39, is not another "Hucksters" and is not believed to be intended as such. It is merely the dissection of some of the characters who make radio the fas­cinating whirl it is, with O'Connor welding an incisive scalpel. 
His particular victim is one Chris­topher Usher, a radio commentator with 5,000,000 listeners. Essentially, the story of THE ORACLE is what happens when his sponsor decides to let him sweat over the proposition of the sponsor renewing Christopher's contract. 
O'Connor's own first hand experi­ence in radio work and his ability to take his own good look at human windbags Uke Christopher Usher per­mit him to weave into his plot enough fringe characters to give the reader a rather discouraging notion of the pom­pous carnival barkers back of some of the major networks' microphones. 
This is a first novel, although O'Con­nor has written articles and stories for Atlantic Monthly, Yale Review and Flair. He earned an A.B. degree at the University in 1939 and lives in Woonsocket, R. I. In World War II he served three years in the U. S. Coast Guard. 
THE WISDOM OF SORROW, by Ricardo Leon. Translated from the Spanish by Philip H. Riley and Hubert J. Tunney. Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind. $3.50. 
Readers accustomed to the general substance and style of contemporary fiction will be exposed to a double siurprise on the pages of The Wisdom of Sorrow. For this Spanish novel— first published in 1910 and now beau­tifully and faithfully translated into English by Philip H. Riley and Hu­bert J. Tunney — differs from most current fiction, first, in its intense re­ligious conviction and, second, in its turbulent rhetoric. 
The book's central character, Don 

Fernando, a nobleman who has be­come close to saintly in his resigna­tion to the blindness which has struck him in mid-life, expresses in his own career the profound feeling which in­forms this novel. When he is sudden­ly given back his sight, Don Fernando discovers that the world is not quite so idyllic as he had imagined, and that he himself has been betrayed by a faithless wife. With a fervor botli Qubcotic and holy, he then renounces the life he has found so bitter, and vows himself to an immeasurably harder existence of voluntary poverty and suffering. As a lay zealot he wanders about Spain preaching. Ul­timately—after his wife's death—he becomes a Capuchin priest; and a final dramatic scene shows him absolv­ing a dying man who, years before, had seduced his benefactor's wife, and broken up his home. 
Violence, suffering, sorrow, passion, love and mystical wisdom come to­gether on these pages. This is a rovel expressly intended to be edifying, in­structive and uplifting. Unlike most works of its kind, it succeeds bril­liantly, despite a spurt and flow and whirl of words which, to many read­ers, will be a trifle distracting. 
And yet, for all the straining and windy writing, Ricardo Leon here tells a magnificent story, rich and alive and captivatingly readable. It comes through the dark, distended prose on its own sheer power. Its fierce and compelling total significance emerges with triumphant clarity, so that many readers will derive from the novel the "delight and consolation," the "bene­fit and pleasure," which the author worked to convey. 
A final note of appreciation • must be added on the handsome job of bookmaking which the publishers have done with this volume. In printing, format, decoration, binding, and jacket. The Wisdom of Sorrow is completely admirable: a beautifully produced book, externally appropriate in every way to the internal designs which must have been felt by both author and translators. 
—RICHARD SULLIVAN more than a peaceful campus on the out­skirts of South Bend, more than a group of gray stone buildings. 

For Notre Dame is a living, growing idea—a top-ranking educational institu­tion vrith a distinguished faculty and a glowing history, filled with students from all comers of the world, representing many races and religions. 
According to the author, Richard Sulli­van, Notre Dame is "a kind of travel book, but done on the spot and covering only 1,700 acres and a bit over a century." 
With the author, through the pages of this book, you'll stroll around the sunny Notre Dame campus in fall, through class-
MR. SULLIVAN 

rooms, dormitories, Vetville, Rockne Me­morial, Log Chapel, the Grotto, the fire house, and the ticket office on the day of a football game. 
You will be introduced to the diverting pasttime of selling radiators in student rooms to unsuspecting freshmen at rates varying according to the degree of gullibility. 
Among the men profiled here are: Father Exlward F. Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame; Jerome Greene, a faculty member who sent the first wireless message in America; Father Julius Nieuwland, the noted chemist and botanist; Knute K. Rockne; and Father John W. Cavanaugh, the ninth president of the University. 
All of these—and the rich traditions— are Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
THE EAR OF GOD, by Rev. Patrick 
J. Peyton, C.S.C, $2.75. 216 pp. Doubleday. 
The story of a snowballing crusade for family prayer that looms as a new hope for the world is told in a book by the Rev. Patrick J. Peyton, C.S.C— "The Ear of God." 
The reader distracted by haggling over political and military panaceas for the world's ills is pleasantly astonished here by revelations of public rallies in tribute to the Mother of God that rivalled the World's Series, and of how this simple movement already has gathered more than four million pledges of the daily Family Rosary. 
Father Peyton, is producer of Family Theater, whose broadcasts with Holly­wood stars are weekly features over the Mutual Network. But his principal work is in the field with the great rallies and the plodding house-to-house canvassing by which, as "peddlers of the beads," he and his little band carry on the Family Rosary Crusade for Our Lady. 
"The Ear of God" stresses the need for prayer, teaches how to pray and what to pray for, and demonstrates the power of prayer as a medium governed by God's laivs. It tells how Father. Peyton was stricken with tuberculosis while still in the seminary and was given the one hope of three major operations, how he chose prayer in­stead, and how within a year he was back at his studies. 
The book reveals the mystic signifi­cance behind one of the titles of Mary, its heroine—"Singular Vessel of De­votion." It contains a special section of selected prayers for daily use and special intentions. 
THE TEAHOUSE OF THE AUG­UST MOON (Putnam $3), by Vem Sneider, A.B., '.40. 
War and reconstruction have been the subject matter of many recent novels, with little of merit to recom­mend many of them. And in spite of the intriguing title, it was with some misgiving that the reviewer started on the new novel by the Monroe, Michi­gan, alumnus - author, a veteran. Particularly when it was mentioned that the theme was reconstruction on Okinawa. 
It would be difficult in a few words to express the delightful surprise of the book—its tone, its humor, its char-
September-October, 1951 

acterization, and perhaps best of all its achievement of a serious purpose, with­out the reader-pain often attendant. 
What many authors have tried to produce with the noise and the blood and the language of war, Mr. Sneider achieves with the delicate use of a satire that is at once gentle and devastating. 
For any veteran of the South Pacific, the book should be delightful intellect­ual therapy for any grim memories he may have of his experience. And for the armies of occupation and the policy-makers in the Pentagon (or, in one of Mr. Sneider's sites, Pottawatta­mie, Indiana), the experiences of Cap­tain Jeff Fisby will be, or should be, an enlightening and effective guide. 
It is one of those books that lose a great significance in any effort to sum­marize. But perhaps the author and the publisher will be content with the best thing a review can say,—read it. It is a contribution to our current liter­ature that the Alumni Association is proud to credit to a Notre Dame alum­nus.—^J. E. A. 
Zimmer New Marine CO 

Major Andrew M. Zimmer, USMC, former Hoosier basketball star and a Marine Corps combat officer both in World War II and in the Korean conflict, has been named Assistant Professor of Naval Science at the University. 
A native of Kentland, Ind., Major Zimmer replaces Major John M. Daly, USMC, who was transferred recently to Camp Pendleton, Calif., after three years of duty at Notre Dame. The new Notre Dame Marine Corps officer also will coach the Notre Dame Naval ROTC rifle team, which has won na­tional championships in two of the last three years. 
The Marine Corps detachment at Notre Dame is one of four military training programs available to stu­dents at Notre Dame. All branches of the armed forces — Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines — are training future officers at Notre Dame. 
Major Zimmer, a graduate of In­diana University in 1942, won recog­nition as a member of the Hoosier basketball team during his- under­graduate days. He entered active duty with the Marine Corps following his graduation from Indiana Uni­versity, 
Major Zimmer, who holds the Bronze Star and Purple Heart, was stationed at Camp Pendleton, Calif., when the Communists invaded South Korea, and in June, 1950, he went to Korea as Assistant Regimental S-3 and Company Commander of the Fifth Marines. He was injured dur­ing the Korean combat and hospital­ized until March. 
Hunk Finally Retires 
Heartley W. Anderson, '22, an­nounced recently he has retired as line coach of the Chicago Bears. 
Onetime line coach under Knute Rockne, later head coach at the uni­versity, "Hunk" is separating himself from football, but not quite complete­ly. He said he would remain wth the Bears as a scout. 
An AU-American guard in his play­ing days, "Hunk" graduated with a degree in Civil Engineering. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  FOUNDATION  
1948  $25,000,000  1958  
DEVELOPMENT  

19481949 AlumniNumber Amount 6,973 $ 451,898.28 7,517 506,231.16 
1950  6,824  2,052,384.07 

 Other Friends Number Amount 
 691$ 163,041.14  1,158 1,418,310.51 492,105.70* 
 2,666 380,594.76 505,400.35* 

1951** 4,286** 103,324.64** 1,185** 152,319.07** *Fellowships, grants for research, gifts of equipment. **For the first half of the year, to July 1, 1951, only. A REPORT ON CONTRIBUTIONS SINCE 1948 
iJ 

Notre Dame's All-Americans 
Walter Camp's Selections 

1903 Louis Salmon (fullback) 3rd team 
1909 

M. Harry Miller (halfback) 3rd team 
1913 Ray Eichenlaub (fullback) 2nd team 
1916 Charles Bachman (guard) 2nd team 
1917 Frank Rydzewski (center) ^nd team 
1920 George Gipp (fullback) 1st team 
1921 Roger Kiley (end) 2nd team John Mohardt (fullback) 2nd team 
1922 Paul Castner (fullback) 3rd team 
1923 Han-ey Brown (guard) 2nd team 
1924 Harry Stuhldreher (quarterback) 1st team 
James Crowley (halfback) 2nd team Adam Walsh (center) 3rd team Elmer Layden (fullback) 3rd team 
Rice, A-A Board, AP, UP, INS Selections 
1925 Elmer Layden (fullback) 1st team B: . INS 3rd team 
James Crowley (halfback) 1st team B; INS 2nd team 
Harry Stuhldreher (quarterback) 1st team B and INS 
1926 Arthur Boeringer (center) R, AP, INS 
1927 John Smith (guard) R, B, AP, UP, INS Christy Flanagan (halfback) UP 
1928 Fred MUler (tackle) INS 
1929 Frank Garidco (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, INS Jack Cannon (guard) R, B, AP, UP, INS 
1930 Frank Carideo (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, INS 
Marchy Schwartz (halfback) AP, UP, INS Marty Brill (halfback) B Bert Metzgcr (guard) AP, UP 
1931 Marchy Schwartz (halfback) R, B, UP, INS Tommy Yarr (center) B, AP, INS Nordy Hoffman (guard) AP Joe Kurth (tackle) UP 
1932 Joe Kurth (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS 
1934 Jack Robinson (center) B, INS 
1935 Wayne Milner (end) B, UP, INS Bill Shakespeare (halfback) B, INS 
1936 John Lauter (guard) UP 
1937 Ed Beinor (tackle) B Chuck Sweeney (end) AP, UP, INS 
1938 Ed Beinor (tackle) R, B, AP, INS Earl Brown (end) B 
1939 Bud Kerr (end) B, AP 
1941 Bob Dove (end) B, UP, INS Bcmie Crimmins (guard) R 
1942 Bob Dove (end) B, INS 
1943 Jim White (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS Angelo Bertelli^ (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, INS Creighton Miller (halfback) R, B, UP, INS John Yonakor (end) B, UP, INS Pat Filley (guard) R, UP 
1945 John Mastrangelo (guard) INS 
1946 John Mastrangelo (giutrd) R, INS George Connor= (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS, FC John Lujack (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, INS, FC, FW George Strohmeyer (center) INS, FW 
1947 John Lujack^ (quarterback) Unaniihous 
BiU Fischer (guard) AP, UP, FW, 1st team: INS 2nd team; FC 3rd team 
George Connor (tackle) UP, FC, B, 1st team; AP 3rd team 
Ziggy Czarobski (tackle) INS, AP, 2nd team; FC 3rd team 
Leon Hart (end) FW 
1948 Bill Fischer' (guard) AP, UP, INS, B 
Leon Hart (end) UP, INS, B, FW-R, Ist team; AP 3rd team 
EmU Sitko (halfback) FW-R 1st team: AP, UP 2nd team 
Marty Wendell (guard) FC 1st team; FW-R 2nd team 
1949 Leon Hart 5 (end) B, FC, FVV-R, AP, UP, INS 
Emfl Sitko (fullback) FC, FW-R, AP, UP, INS 
Jim Martin (tackle) AP, INS 1st team; FW-R, UP 2nd team 
Bob Williams (quarterback) B, FW-R, UP 
1950 Jerome Groom (center) UP, NEA 
Bob Williams (quarterback) AP, UP, 
FW-R 
NOTE 

AP^-Associated Press 
UP—United Press 
INS—^International News Ser\-ice 
B—All-American Board FW—Football Writers FC—^Football Coaches. R—Grantland Rice 
FW-R—Football Writers and Grantland 
Rice combined their choices for LOOK 
Magazine in 1948, 1949 and 1950 

1 Received the Heisman Trophy as "Outstanding Player of 19*3" 
: Received the Outland Trophy as "Outstanding Lineman of 1946" 
3 Received the Heisman Tn^hy as "Outstanding Hayer oC 1947" # Reixived tlie Outland Trophy as "Outstanding liaeiaan of 1948" 
5 Rccoved the Heisman Trophy as "Outstanding thfcr of 1949" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1951 Notre Dame Football Roster 
This roster was compiled before registration. There will be revisions after Freshmen enroll in September inasmuch as they will be eligible this season. 
NAME  POS.  AGE  HT.  WT.  HOME  TOWN  , HIGH  SCHOOL  CLASS  
.Alcssandrini,  Jack  F  G  20  5-11  198  Charleston,  W. Va.  -Catholic  -­ -Jr.  
Ash,  LawTcncc  ... HB-FB  19  6-1  180  Colorado  Springs,  Colo.  -St.  Mary's  -Soph.  
Banicki,  Frederick  F. ...  G  21  5-10  190  Chicago,  111.  -Leo  -Sr.  
Bardash,  Virgil  T  20  6-0  210  Gary,  Ind.  - Horace  Mann  -Jr.  
*»Barr«t,  Williim  C  _  HB  22  5-8  180  River  Forest,  III.  _  -FenWick  —:  -Sr.  
*Bartlett,  James  J. ^  C .  22  6-3  200  Cinciimati,  Ohio  —  -Elder  -Sr.  
Bianco,  Donald  J.  HB  19  5-11  185  Great  Neck,  N.  Y.  ­ -XaWer  -Fr.  
**Boji, Byron B. Bubick, Raymond J Buczkievvicz, Edward  G.  ... C T  QB  21 18 20  6-0 6-1 6-0  200 222 177  Chicago, 111. South Bend,Chicago, III.  Ind.  _  _­ -Austin -Riley -Weber  _Sr. -Soph. .Jr.  
**Bums,  Paul  E.  G  21  6-2  210  Athens,  Pa.  -Athens  -Sr.  
•Bush,  Jack  L.  HB  21  6-1  190  Oak  Park,  lU.  -St.  Ambrose  (Davaqwrt,  la.)  Sr.  
Bush,  Joseph  R. ——­—  T  19  6-3  203  Oak  Park,  lU.  -St.  Ambrose  (Daveq^ort,  Ia.)..Soph.  
Caprara,  Joseph  A.  FB  22  6-0  195  Turtle  Creek,  Pa.  _  -Turtle  Creek  :  Sr.  
Darago, John L. Ooud, Charles O. *DunIay, James F. *FIood, David  C T T HB  18 19 19 24  6-4 6-2 6-2 5-10  205 193 209 185  Akron, Ohio Oxnard, Calif. . Oakmont, Pa. Pittsburgh, Pa. ,  -St. Vincent .J. Villanova Prep . - Oakmont - Langley   5oph. -Jr. -Jr. -Jr.  
Galardo,  Armando  HB  20  5-10  170  Watertown,  N. 'Y . .  -Immaculate  Heart  .._.JFr.  
•Gander, Fidel J. Gaudreau, William  L. .  ... FB  QB  21 2C  6-1 6-1  192 180  Chicago, 111. Baltimore, Md.  - Mount- Loyola   Caimel  —  Sr. -Jr.  
Getschow,  Lee  E.  HB  19  6-0  175  Kenilwdrth,  111.  - New  Trier  -Jr.  
•Hamby, James H. Hail, William L. Heap, Joseph L.  E C HB  19 20 19  6-5 5-2 5-11  203 200 175  Cincinnati, Ohio Caruthersville, Mo.Covington, La.  ­ -Puicell -Caruthersville -Hol y Cross  -Soph. _.Sr. -Fr.  
Hovcy, William Hubbard, George H.Hunter, Arthur J.  —  HB HB C  25 19 18  5-lC 6-0 6-3  170 180 213  Lake Placid, N.Mt. Pulaski, III.Akron, Ohio   Y.  __._  -Lake PUcid ___ _ -Mt. Pulaski Twp. -St . Vincent _J  —Soph. ..Soph.  
Jacobitz, William G. __. Joseph, Robert •Kapish, Robert J. Katchik, Joseph •Kelly, Robert J. Kettles, James F. Kohanowich, Albert J.  E HE E E ­E G E  20 2C 21 20 21 19 21  6-t 5-9 6-0 6-9 6-2 6-1 6-1  190 165 187 255 203 198 189  Grand Rapids, Mich. Martins Ferry, Ohio Barberton, Ohio Plymouth, Pa. Duluth, Minn. Gary,- Ind. Hempstead, N. Y. __  -Catholic Central-Martins Ferry -Barberton -Plymouth -.^ -Catholic -Horace Mann - Hempstead —  . ­ -Jr. . Soph. Sr. -Soph. -Jr. -Soph. -Jr..  
Lattner,  John  J.  .—  HE  18  6-1  188  Chicago,  111.  -Fenwcik  —,  
Lee,  John  P.  G  19  5-11  190  Medford,  Mass.  -Maiden  Catholic  
Man^alardi,  Frank  F.  E  18  6-1  194  Chicago,  III.  -St.  Philip  -Soph.  
Martin,  Robert  L. —...  QB  20  6-2  185  Davenport,  Iowa  - St.  Ambrose  ...Sf^b.  
Mavraides,  Menil  E  19  6-1  202  Lowell,  Mass.  _  -Lowell  -Soph.  
••Mazur,  John  E.  QB  21  6-2  197  Plymouth,  Pa.  Plymouth"  _  _Sr.  
McHugh,  Thomas  L. ..  FB  19  6-1  195  Toledo,  Ohio  „„ Central  Catholic  JSoph.  
Morrissey, Rockne •Murphy, Thomas L Murphy, William ••Mutscheller, James L. (C) Xowack, Arthur C.  HB T FB E c  19 2U 18 21 21  5-9 6-! &0 6-1 6-1  165 207 190 198 205  Cincinnati, OhioChicago, III. —_ ­St. Louis, Mo. Beaver Falls, Pa. Rochester, N. Y.  _  _. Purcell ' ­St. George St.' Louis Uoiv. HS Beaver Falls Aquinas  -Soph. -Jr. Soph. Sr.. -Soph.  
O'Brien,  Thomas  F.  T  20  6-1  213  Danielson,  Conn.  Killingly  -Sopli.  
O'Hara,  Roger  .  HB  20  5-9  180  Lewiston,. N.  Y. —.  „„St.  Mary's  _Sr.  
O'Malley,  Jack  E  18  6-4  212  YoungstoM-n,  Ohio  —,  UrsuUnc  -Soph.  
O'Neil,  Robert  E  20  6-2  195  Bridgeville,  Pa.  .  Lincoln  —„ „  -Jr.  
••Ostrowski,  Chester  G.  G  21  6-1  197  Chicago, 111.  ..Weber  -™  -Sr.  
Palumbo,  Samuel  G  19  6-0  195  Cleveland.  Ohio  „ ColUnwood  -Fr.  
Pastercki,  James  G  19  6-0  205  Milwaukee,  Wis.  __  _ Pulaski  
Paterra,  Francis  F.  .QB-HB  19  5-11  180  McKeesport.  Pa.  .Tech  „  -Soph.  
Penza,  Donald  F.  E  19  6-1  200  Kenosha,  Wis.  ™_ St.  Catherine  (Racins)  Soph.  
••Petitbon,  John  E.  HB  20  6-0  185  Xew  Orleans,  La.  _.  „ Jesuit  Sr.  
Petranick,  Albert  G.  G  20  6-0  .  210  Johnson  City,  N.  Y.  ..Johnson  City  -Si^h.  
Poehler,  Frederick  C.  T  21  6-4  210  Jackson,  Mich.  Jackson  -.^  -Soph.  
Ready,  Robert  T  19  6-3  204  Lowell,  Mass.  .Lowell  -Fr.  
Kigali,  Robert  J.  HB  19  5-8  172  Oak  Park.  III.  . Fenwick  ..Soph.  
Robst,  Paul  K. _  G  IS  5-11  195  Chicago,  111.  ___.  ,St.  George  -Soph.  
Sama,  Edward  .  HB  21  5-11  175  South  River,  N.  J.  „„  .South  River  „  ......Sc^h.  
Seaman, Thomas J. .. Schrader, James L.  G C  21 19  5-11 6-2  198 208  Canton, Ohio Carnegie, Pa.  _ Lincoln Scott Twp.  -. -jr:  ....Soplt.  
Taylor,  Robert  H  T  18  6-2  200  Pckin,  III,  .Pekin  ~i—L_Fr.  
••Toneff,  ' Robert  T  21  6-2  235  Barberton,  Ohio  „ Barberton  .'Sr.  
Trail,  Carl  F.  T  19  6-3  215  Pittsburgh.  Pa.  _No.  Catholic  Soph. .  
Udovich,  John  P.  .  E  20  6-2  193  Chester,  Pa.  St.  James  ____  Fr.  
Varrichione,  Frank  J.  G  19  M  210  Natick,  Mass.  „..„  _ Natick  :  —_—_F h  
•Weithman,  James  C. ..  T  21  6-0  190  Bucyrus,  Ohio  _Bucyrus  _-___  
Whelan,  Jack  D.  HB  20  5-11  180  Miami,  Fla.  _ Miami  :  
Wolniak,Worden,  Leonard Neil J.   A. .  HB FB  20 20  5-11 5-11  175 187  Chicago, III. ^...__ ^f^u•aukec, Wis.  Morgan..Pulaski   Park  ^  :  
•Zambroski,  Anthony  J. _.  T  21  6-0  200  Erie,  Pa.  ..Cathedral  Prep  -Sr.  
Zimmermann,  Clarence  J.  QB  19  6-2  180  New Orleans.  La.  . Holy  Cross  -Fr:  
•Monogram  

September-October, 1951 

Art From Mrs. fisher 
A collection of 17 rare paintings 

and three tapestries by the old mas­
ters has been given to the Univer­
sity by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, widow 
of the founder of the Fisher Body 
Company, Detroit. 
The gift of valuable paintings 

marks the second large donation by 
Mrs. Fisher to Notre Dame in less 
than two years. It was announced in 
December, 1949, that Mrs. Fisher, 
whose late husband was a member of 
the Associate Board of Lay Trustees 
at Notre Dame, had given $1,000,000 
to the University for the erection of 
a new student residence hall and for 
a revolving student loan fund. 
The collection, to be housed in the Wightman Memorial Art Galleries, will eventually be placed in the I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, when that structure is com­pleted. 
Four ot the old paintings have been evaluated by art critics at $100,000 or more each. The most highly-prized of the gift paintings is "Portrait of a Woman," by Bart Vaneto. The other three most valuable paintings of the collection are another "Portrait of a Woman," by the famed Italian mas­ter, Antonio PoUaiuolo; "Anne, Lady Townsend," by George Romney, a noted English historical and portrait painter of the late eighteenth century; and "Le Bouton de Rose," by Francois Boucher, self-taught French artist of the eighteenth century, who is re­membered as a famed historical genre painter. 
Three tapestries included in Mrs. Fisher's million-dollar art collection are of Anthony and Cleopatra. 
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, in acknowledging Mrs. Fisher's gift, said: 
"Words cannot properly express the deep and lasting gratitude of the University of Notre Dame for the con­tinuing interest in the University of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, which is reflected in this second most generous gift to Notre Dame. The fine old paintings and tapestries included in Mrs. Fisher's gift collection, which will greatly enrich the University art gal­leries, will serve to remind future gen­erations of the part played by Mrs. Fisher, and that of her beloved hus­band, in the development of Notre Dame." 
Two Kew Vice-PresideDts 
FATHER JOYCE 
FATHER CAREY 

Appointment of two new vice-presi­dents for the University was announced for the beginning of the fall term. 
Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C, was named as vice-president in charge of student affairs, replacing Rev. Joseph Kehoe, C.S.C, and Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C, was named acting vice-president in charge of business affairs. 
Rev. John Burke, C.S.C, whom Father Joyce replaces has been ordered to a lengthy recuperation for health purposes. 
Father Joyce has been studying in England for the past year. 
Czech Diplomat Here 
Dr. Francis Schwarzenberg, former head of the Czechoslovakian mission to the Vatican, advocated a closer alliance of all free nations of the world with the Vatican in order to assure a just and lasting peace, in an address at the annual meeting of the History Teachers' Club of the Uni­versity. 
The former Czech diplomatic head, who now is a member of the faculty at Loyola University in Chicago, ad­dressed high school teachers from all parts of the midwest at the annual Notre Dame meeting. Professor James 
A. Corbett, of the Notre Dame De­partment of History, was chairman of the meeting. 
Dr. Schwarzenberg, urging the United States to maintain a perma­nent embassy at the Vatican rather than the President's personal repre­sentative, told the Notre Dame audi­ence that "the closer America gets to the Vatican the closer this nation will be to the victory of Christ" which ultimately wU be reflected in the form of a just peace among all na­tions and peoples. 
Describing the importance of the Vatican in international relations. Dr. Schwarzenberg pointed out that at the end of the reign of Pope Pius IX, only four world powers were repre­sented at the Holy See. Today, he said, this number has increased more than four times. 
Dr. Schwarzenberg headed the first diplomatic mission from Czechoslo­vakia to the Vatican following World War II, When his native land was overrun by the Communists in 1948, he came to the United States and joined the political science faculty at Loyola University in Chicago. 
Carrying out the theme of the meeting, the teaching of history in the current crisis, addresses were heard by the delegates on "Trends in Europe" by Dr. William O. Shana­han, of the Notre Dame Department of History; "The Mexican Revolu­tion as Seen Through Its Novelists," by Professor Walter M. Langford, Head of the Department of Modem Languages at Notre Dame, and "Cur­rent Affairs in the Classroom" by Dr. Marshall Smeber and Professor James J. Green, of the Notre Dame Department of History. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Appleton 
Members of the Appleton Notre Dame Alumni Club held their annual picnic Sunday, August 19, at Erb Park in Appleton. Mr. and Mrs. Fred Hcinritz headed the committee which made the arrangements for the family day affair. The oldsters played baseball and the kiddies partici­pated in the games planned for them. There were over sixty in attendance. 
The next function planned by the club is the Christmas dance to be held December 28 at the Appleton Elks Club for slumni, students, and friends of the Club. 
Baltimore 
• The Notre Dame Club of Battimurc iield Its annual picnic at "Anchors Awcigh" on the Bagolhy River July 28, 19SI. Ninety-seven chil­dren and adults attended, making it the biggest picnic on r*cord for the local Club. Practically everything was donated and a $40 profit was shown. For this we are much indebted especially to "Pete" Hajewski. 
Everyone brought a basket picnic lunch, whicli was followed by games for the children and two hours of swimming. At 5 o'clock, the Club scr%-ed a picnic supper. 
There were hot dogs, creamsides, beer, soda pop, pretzels, potato chips, and cookies in moun­tainous amounts, and at the end of the day, door prizes were raffled off to the kiddies and their parents. For the children, there were bats, balls, roller skates, water wings, miniature golf passes and games, and for the adults, beer, other potables, and cartons of cigarettes. 
A novel idea was tried when Gene O'Brien, President of the O'Brien Paint Company, donated painters' hats for ever^-onc. On the hats were imprinted the door prize numbers. All the kiddies received balloons. 
The Club is now making its elaborate prepara­tions for the Notre Dame-Navy Football Rally on Friday, November 2, 1931, in the Ballroom of the Hotel Emerson. Admission will be $3.00 per person and will include beer, tidbits, a radio and television program, movies and dancing. The following day, on Saturday, November 2, 1931, after the game, the Club will again sponsor a Cocktail Party for the public in the Hotel Emerson Ballroom. Admission will be $1.00 per person. This will be the official gathering place for Notre Dame men and their friends after the .game. 
Central Illinois 
Jim Costa was host to the Central Illinois Club at its meeting July I6th. The Stelte brothers, BIU and Frank, delved into their warehouse and prouded refreshments .. . In a surprise cere­mony John Carroll presented an engraved Knight in Armor lighter to Chuck Corcoran as a token of appreciation of his year^ of ser\-ice to the club and ND . . . We were happy to have Father LeBretoo, who gave an inspiring talk. He says he would like to see Father Robert HeinU of EfHngham,. Illinois, at our next meeting —so would we. 
If our old ramrod, Mike Scyfret, could have been with us there would have been a more spirited race for the various offices. Mike, who is State Director of Public Safety, had to be away on business. In his absence the club quietly accepted the Xominating Committee's state and elected: 
President: Tom Vicars, 134 Xo. GlenwfKHf. Springfield, Illinois. Vice-President: Jerry &fcGIone, 1728 S.* Pas-field, Springfield, Illinois. Secretary-: Jim Costa, IIA Pasfield Park Place, Springfield, Illinois. Treasurer: Ambrose "Buzz" Moron, 228 Oak-side Blvd., Decatur, Illinois. 
September-October, 1951 
After the election, Claire Hafel showed us the 

filmed Highlights. When this was finished, the 
Imperial Quartette, George Afangan, Jerry Mc-
Glone, Joe Pcdntcct and Steve Graliker, burst 
into song, and the meeting quickly disintegrated. 
Wc were glad to welcome some of our new­

comers, Joe Meitzler, who is now Kirfoy Schaefer*! 
neighbor and co-worker; and Art Reiser, of 
Petersburg, Illinois. We would like to see some 
of our other outnsf-towners like Steve Carmody, 
George Carpenter, Doc Dailey, Ed Flynn, George 
Johnson and Dick Carrigan. 
Anyone reading this account, ^vho has failed to receive notices, please drop a line to Secretary Jim Costa and give him your address. If you v e getting the notices, write anyhow and let him know if there are any activities you would like to have the club undertake. Tom Vican is calling a meeting of officers soon to plan an interesting program for the year. 
Canton 
New club officers of the Canton Club are: Charles J. Kennedy, '49, President Louis L. Singer, *48, Vice-President Maurice F. Zink, '48, Secretary-Treasurer 

Cfevefand 
Thanks go to John Rcidy, the general chair­man, for another highly successful Golf Party. Highlights of the day: Tom Kennedy repeating as the champ . . . thanks to the committee for 125 prizes donated . . . 123 members out swat­ting the ball or lazily watching the others come up to the last green . . . Mixise Krause show­ing a highly improved game . . . Msgrs. GriflRn and Hammer xvalking away with a prize each . . . George Kozak hitting the longest ball . . . Bill Van Rooy with the lou-e^t number of putts . . . Leo Hammer with the highest gross. 
Two more alumni have left for the service . . . Bob Stock in the Army . . . Jack Wetscnd in the Naval Air Rcser\-c now in Great Lakes Na\'al Hospital. 
August 19 was the date of the family picnic at Gilmour Academy, ably run by Eddie Killcn . . . over 100 from babies to grandads in the crowd . . . Clayt Leroux's family winning a black cocker spaniel puppy; first dog they ever owned . . . plans called for a ball game, but everyone ^vas too busy for it . . . Father ScH-ard, our chaplain, vvatching closely to sec that none of the kids were paid to throw any races. 
Coming events . . . December 8. Annual Fam­ily Communion Breakfast . . . Dec. 29, Dick Maier*s wedding and the Annual Christmas Ball to be at the Hotel Statler .. . the Rockne Breakfast for the alumni and their sons in the early Spring . . . Sept. 1 Fred Friend is middle-aisling it. 
Chicago 
Sept. 5 was the date of the traditional Fresh­man Welcome Party by the Chicago Club, and this year it was held in the Lake Shore Ath­letic Club. 
Students, incoming Freshmen and their parents, and Alumni turned out to greet Rev. John H. Afurphy, C.S.C, Vice-President of the University in Charge of Public Relations, and Commerce Dean James E. McCarthy. 
Columbus 
The Annual Fish Fr>- was held by the Club on August 31. It was the same big hit it has been in previous years. Those attending and planning to attend Notre Dame were guests of the alumni. 
The Colambits Club has beea fortunate cnougli to have the Southern Metbodzst football game for its "Football Spedal.** The ux-bonr trip via Toledo will start at about 6:00 a.m. So far as is known, the train will have the South Bend depot as Its terminus. 
Joki Ddbitctto was welcomed as a new m^iwlt^^ of the Columbus Club at its last meetu^. John comes to Columbus from Brooklyn, New York. 
Dolias 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas has started a weekly lunchean at a bimness men's dvb, known as the Downtown Club of Dallas. So far, we have had four limdieaiis and tlie namber of members attending has been most gratifying and has increased. Each member heartily ap­proves of these weekly limcheoiu. It is primarily a get-tcgetber in a social way and to know the members better. 
Oa August 5, we had a Comffllmion Breakfast for the Club. We had a splendid turnout for Commimion at Holy Trinity Cburcb and a very lovely breakfast at one of the leading restaurants in a private room with a planned menu. Every­one enjoyed himself so much the breakfast lasted two hours. We even had some out-of-town mem­ben to come in for it. In charge of the break­fast was Dr. Lloyd C Bdbmy and his com­mittee. 
On August 28, we are having our Annual Informal Summer party, wbdh will take p!ace at Northwood Country CIt*. It will start at 2 o'clock with golf, tennis and swinuning to be fol­lowed with a Texas barbecue to be served by the Club. In the evening there will be informal dancing and entertaiiunent by the Club members. In charge of this fine party is Jtska A. Sduoetttr and his committee. 
Walter t . Ilemiag, Chairman of SMU-Notre Dame football trip to South Bend is making splendid pn^ress for a real Texas representation to the game. It will be a four-day trip for all the members, and it looks like everyone is an.xious to go. 
Denver 
Mr. Gerard J. Smitb, chairman of the scholar­ship committee, announced recently that the re­cipient of this year's scholarship is Martin W. Kenehan of 5700' Mbntview Blvd., Denver. Mr. Kenehen is a 1951 honor graduate of Regis High school. The winner is selected from a^Ucants from both parochial and public schools. 
Jim HanloOy chairman of the football special train committee of the Denver Notre Dame club, announced that special trains to ND games will be run this year. The ND club of Denver in cooperation with the Burlington railroad, will run trains to the Pivdue-ND game and also to the Southern Methodist aod.ND game. 
The special trains and a ticket sale held in conjunction with the Southern Methodut game make possible the annual ND club scholarship award to the best qualified applicant in Colorado. Prizes in the ticket sale will be First prize, two rouadtrip tickets to the Southern Methodist foot­ball game, hotel lodgings, two football tickets, and a $50 expense allowance; second prize, - two roundtrip railroad tickets to the game and two football tickets; and third prize, two football tickets. 
A summer picnic, alwatys looked forward to fay club members and their wives was held Atigust 
26. There was a large attendance and of course a good time was had bv all. 
Green Bay 
The Notre Dame Club of Green Bay held its second • annual family picnic on Sunday, August 19, 1951 at the Neufeld summer home, Edgewater Beach. Sixty guests attended. The children of the members amused themselves by swimming and playing badminton, Ia»-n bowling, and croquet, while the "oldsters" enjoyed the day by relaxing 
J5 

Buck Shaw (left) and Jimniy Phcian (right) with Jess Hill of Southern California, planning Old Tuners' Night in Los Angeles. A report of the event b in the t«s Angeles section of Club Notes. 
and talking over old times. Students now at­tending the University ^vere special guests of the club. 
Pat Martin and John Su]It\'an did a super job of frving hambui^ers for the crowd. The affair \\'a< under the chairmanship of John Sulti\'an, '48. club president, assisted by Nubs Christinan, Harold Lottdo, Pat Martui, and Joe Ncufdd. 
In respect to the memor>' of Herbert L. Nichols, Green Bay, honorary* members of the club and general sales manager of Northern Paper Mills, loya! fan of Notre Dame, the flag on the grounds was flown at half mast. Herb died of a heart attack on the sixteenth and was buried the day before the picnic 
Tlie Dew* officers elected for ihe 1951-52 year arc: 
John B. SuUivan, '48, 715 Jack&on, President. 
Frederick M. Burall, '30, 1127 Quincy St., 

\'ice-President. Joseph A. Neufeld, *44, Whitney Rd., P.O. Box ,17, Secretar>--Trea5urcr. 
Kansas City 
The club will sponsor an informal gct-togciher luncheon at the Phillips Hotel at 12:00 noon. September 19. The Pro game between the Washington Redskins and Chicago B;ar^ will be held that evening in Blues Stadium. Tlirough the courtesy ol John Anton:llo, a special section for ND Club members and their guests has bei-n rcscncd for the game. 
Club officers have extended an invitation to the Notre Dame men of both football clubs to bt.­our guests at tliis luncheon. Unless practice or other commitments interfere, wc are iiopeful of having these Notre Dame men with us. In any event, whether ^v•e have football guests or not. this luncheon will be a good way to get our group's activities started for the com'ng year. 
Arrangements have been made w-ith ilie Fa­mous Restaurant, 1211 Baltimore, for club lunch­eon facilities each Weilnesday, beginning Septem­ber 26, during the Fall season. Here is a cliance for us to second guess the coaches, hasli over tlie 
last game, and incidrntally, have luncheon in congenial surroundings. We will have a drawing for two tickets to the SMU game plus transportation, hotels, and ^50 expense mone>'. The club depends almost wholly on this annual drawing to provide funds for its activities. Wc are hopeful of making tliis year's drawing so successful that the club can come through with a generous contribution to the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. 
Louisiana 
Latest event of the club was a party for incoming freshmen at the Ambassador Hotel. Au'g. 14. Most of the beginning freshmen, their parents and quite a few of the present students were there. 
Honorary .Alumni President Leo B. Ward, Paul Bcrger and Jack Tobin gave sliort talks. We had a showing of the most recent campus color film, to give the beginners an idea of what the place looks like now. One of the older timers present, Charlie Beardslec—he says he graduated about 1900 and never went back—was amazed at the changes the film showed. Bob Kelley was chairman ot the affair. 
An event on Aug. 2 at the Nicodcll Restau­rant went off well, and for want of a better name wc called it the "Old Timers* Sports Dinner." It was strictly informal t^-pe fun. with the local sports writing gentry present and letting their hair do\vn. Bravcn D>'er, Sid Ziff^ Geoi^ Da\*is, Marie Kelley, Al Santora, Ned Cronin and Chuck Johnson were included. 
And we know there AviU be at least 400 at next year's family picnic. (Satisfied customers always return!) Thanks should go to Chairman John McArdle, to Paul Kigali, John Hartfield, Tom Misterly, Bob Curtis, Alex Shellogg, Jack ^Ily and Bill Fulton. 
(Note to John Bums—Please don't cut any names—they all worked on that picnic, and as it i* we'll be in enough trouble for not mentioning more fellows) 
\NTiat we expect to be the biggest event of tlie Club Year will be the "Rockne—Jones Memorial Dinner" to be held in November at the Holly­wood Roose\-elt Hotel, on the 25th annivcrsar>' of the first meeting of SC at Notre Dame. 
The eveat will also mark tlie lOih anni**crsar>* of the death of Rockne's close friend, Howard Jones, late coach of the Trojans. 
John Wallace, '27, and Art Parisicn, '28, the only two local members of the. team that first met the Trojans in '26 in Los Angeles" are work­ing with chairman Baden Powell, '32, to make this a memorable occasion for the local club. Tom Leib, one of Rock's' assistants., is also a member of the committee. So arc Joe Mansfield, '36, Bill Fulton, '48, Jack Mahoney/ '37, Mannie Veae, '29, J£m Bacon, '27, Cle\e Carey, '33, Leo B. Ward, '20, Tim Moj-nihan, '30, Spike En^aod, '30, and quite a few others still to be named. 
Wc expect to get George Jessel as master of ceremonies and Jess Hill and his coaching staff at Southern California ivill be the honored guests. 
A separate c\'ent is the rally before the Dec. I t;ame %vith SC and perhaps a dinner dance after the game. It's been a fast-moving summer but the fall calls for quite a pace. too. 
Baden Powell 

Miami 
An>-foody can have a summer picnic, so the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Greater Miami went along and had one. too. On July 7, and it was a whing ding. 
But just to prove that we're different, our Summer Picnic was such a whing ding that .We're having a Fall Picnic. Even got a set of co^hairmcn. too. ' Kelly and ZoroWch. And Howaty is advisor and Jimes fall-guy. Jones announces there *viH be pri2es or something. 
The summer picnic was held in Crandon Park, under direction of Mr. Fnddic Jcnes. Besides the food (which was excellent) there was so much recreational actirity the Club budget will be strained getting out a complete and detailed report of same. 
There was ocean baseball (Notre Dame style) between Alumni and their sons. Only casualty was PSowaty. He strained his back bending over for a ball, he reported. 
Jerry OideUe directed a hand-tennis contest which broke up when the youngsters went on sit-down strike and refused to chase the ball. Horseshoe matches took up a good portion of the afternoon until the \'arious wives broke up this sport because the shoes were landing in their laps. 
A Softball contest to top the day was incon­clusive, although Kelly's team defeated Zorovich's 6-4 in what Kelly claimed %vas a regulation two-inning contest. The game ended in dispute when several members Vvere accused of hiring the kids to chase balls they missed during play. 
NOTE FOR VISITING ALUMNI: The club holds monthly meetings at Smith's Restaurant. 203 Northwest 36th Street, Miami. For meeting details, phone Faris N. Cowart, 1803 S.W. Eighth St., Xfiami. 
Paris N. Cowart 

Mid-Hudson Volley 
As to our grand get-together at the Cardinal 
. Farley Military Academy, the only detail that yours fnily slipped up on Iiappened to be one that could lead to the collapse of the club—in my report to the Alumnus. I inadvertently omitted the names of the club members who serv'ed on the various committees. These men did a fine job and they do deser\'e a pat on the back to say the least. The general chairman was Frank SamfOippo and it Avas through his contacts at the Academy that wc managed to get the appro\*at of the good Fathers—Frank doubled up on two other committees, namely the "refreshment and road marker" committees—by this, you can see that Frank is our "triple threit" man of the year* Dick McCabe ser\'ed as the other member of the "road marker" com­mittee and Bob Dcegan was the other member of the "refreshment" committee. Andy Murphy, the local Recreation Department boss, supplied the athletic equipment for the day. This may seem to be very unimportant but these men 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

volunteered ihcir sen'iccs and I can truthfully say that without their efforts, there would have been no picnic at all. They spent many hours getting all in perfect working order so that the picnic would be more than just a dream. Again, thanks a lot fellows- and I am sorry that I slipped up when I sent in the full report of our picnic. 
Xow that I am back in the good graces of the committee men. I will proceed on to greener pastures. 
Our president, Henry J. Fisher, is spending his two weeks vacation in South Bend and we gave him specific instructions to visit the irampus for a report on the coming football squad. I am certain that he will come back with the "goods*'; if nor, I fear that we will have a vacancy jn the office of the President. 
Joe Mahar plans to take in the Purdue game this Fall and I must say that Joe almost missed out oa it completely—there was a slight slip up at the Athletic Office In regard to his applica­tion blanks. This Is the second time that this has happened to Joe—on the other occasion, the -Athletic Office forgot to send anyone in the city of Kingston the application blanks for the NYU basketball game. However, Joe had a smile on his face when I saw him last week so I took it to mean that he will be at the stadium this Fall 
cheering the bo>-s on to vrctorj'* 
Milwaukee 
Our club has instituted a program placing increased emphasis on family participation in club affairs. In keeping with this program, Fred Miller of the Miller Brewing Co., a Notre Dame alumnus, invited our members and their wives to be his guests at the Brewery. Wc were taken on an instructive and interesting tour of the brewer^' which was followed by a buffet supper^ movies and, of course, all the beer we could drink. Fred has been very generoxis in granting our members the use of his brewery facilities. Wc certainly appreciate his generosity. 
The annual club "stag-picnic** is to be held August 23, 1951, at the Port Washington Country Club. This event has been one of the best attended gatherings every year in spite of the fact that the picnic is generally held during the week when most fellows have to take time off from their occupational pursuits!! 
Our fall and winter programs arc merely in the planning stage at this writing, but our plan­ning committee of Floyd J. SuUtvan, President; Maurice Scanlon, Vice-President; John Hoff, treasurer; Bill Doucettc, Secretary; as well as Donald Gottshalk, Dick Balliet, Tom' Dixon, and Dave Rolfs, are directing their efforts toward family participation in chib affairs. A dance, a Communion Sunday, and football ; smoker are being very seriously considered. 
Naugatuck Volley 
The Naugatuck Valley Club has within it an organization perhaps unique in the Alumni Asso­ciation. 
The three officers—President Fmn Afumane, VP Jim Sdgliano, Secretary Bert Henebry and Foundation Chairman Bill Andres are unofficially the Four Horsemen of the area. 
LcastwaySy these four feel that ivay ivhenever a meeting is held. 'Cause we're the only ones who seem to show up. The meetings arc held monthly, as follows: On the second Monday of evcr>' month, in 
KING'S KITCHEN, HOTEL ELTON, WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT, TIME, 9 P.M. 

The Club is currently making an appeal for some plasma injections in the form of better-attended meetings, by alumni from these towns: 
Naugatuck, Beacon Falls, Se>'mour, Ansonia. Litchfield, Milldale, Mount Carmel, Middlebury, Woodbury, Watertown, Oakville, Thomaston, Tor­rington, Bristol, Terr>'\'iilc, Southington, Cheshire, and Hamden. 
That sounds like quite a geographical spread, but all these towns are in a small radius and we need the members to come out and see la. There arcn*t even any dues. Shall wc repeat that? THERE AREN'T EVEN ANY DUES. 
It follows that wc have no club activities or news to report, but wc do have the potential. Hope you'll be hearing from us. 
Bert Hendry 

Northern Californio 
PENINSULA PICNIC AND BAR-B-QUE 
The Peninsula group held a family picnic and bar-bc-que on Sunday, August 26, at the Stanford University Newman Club, the old Kathleen Norris Estate. Mass was celebrated at 11 a.m. in the newly dedicated cliapcl adjacent to the Newman Club. Immediately thereafter the bar-b-que was underway. There was a bingo game for the grown-ups and games for the children. Chair­man for the event—Donald Miller, 1217-A Bur­lingame Ave., Burlingamc. 
SMOKER AND B.\NQUET FOR RETURN­ING STUDENTS 
On Thursday, September 6, at the Leopard cafe located at 140,.I;ront St. in San Francisco will be held the ajuiual smoker and banquet for newly enrolled and • returning students of the University of Notre Dame. Cocktails will be served at 6 p.m. and dinner will be sen'ed at 7:30 p.m. Dinner will consist of that popular buffet dinner that the Leopard Cafe is so 'famous for. Accommodations consist of a private room and a private bar. The program as planned will bo the introduction of newly enrolled and retum­inij students and the showing of the "Notre Dame Football Highlights.". Early indications are that we will experience one of the largest attendances for any activity of this kind. 
OTHER EVENTS 
Other activiu'es during the fall and winter months include a listening party at Spanglers in Oakland for the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist game OQ October 13, a communion breakfast on date to be announced, Notre Daue-Southem Cali' fornia Trip planned tentati\-ely in conjunction with the San Mateo Council of the Knights of Columbus, the annual East-West Shrine game banquet in the last week in December and last but not least, the real prob^iUty that our own Notro Dame Glee Club will give a program in San Francisco during the last week in January or the first week in February of 1952. Watch for individual notices lor eadi of these events. 
Phoenix 
At present our club here has forty members. T)ue to the fact that we- are not a large club and that our members must in some cases travel quite a few miles, we have outlined fewer_ meet­ings this year. Our intent is to thereby have more complete parttcipatioa and build the club mto a close knit organization. 
On September 17 we will have a special meet­ing for business and to arrange plans for tickets and the trip to Los .Angeles for the ND-USC game. We will have another meeting in October to collect for the tickets. At this meeting we hope to obtain the "1930 Football HighKghts" for cntertaiimient. 
Aside from these and maybe one other business meeting, we have three main events planned dunns the year. Joe Hofrigaa i% chairman of an Outdoor Party, the date of which has not been set. This will be a golf outing w^th a dinner afterwards. On December 8, Wilfiam Mahoay is chairmaii of our Communion Sunday which will include breakfast. Looking even further to the future. Ton O'Maller, Jr., is' chairman of our Universal Notre Dame Night Party. Oa this night we again plan to have the wives present and listen in to the broadcast. 
Pittsburgh 
Joe Farrell, . Pennsylvania State Foundation Governor, paid the Club a visit and attended our recent golf party. Joe had just come from Erie, had visited the Monongahela Valley group, and was ^ain on his way to State College. Club members and officers were happy to laeet Joe and think he is doing a fine jt^ for the Foun­dation among State alumni. 
The annual family picnic ^-as held at North Park Lodge on August 16. This again was a big suctress, the third straight year. More than one hundred attended, and all had a good time. There were numerous prizes and tokens for the kids; games, music, fun, and refreshments for all. Sad to say, a Pitt man, Vic Navarro, brother-in­law of Hugo lacovctti and Larry SmiUi, walked off with the main raffle prize, an electric Fry-rite. But lucky Bob Hartman (ND '31} came through and ivon door prize. 
This family picnic demanded many hours work and worr>- from several of the old stand-by members. Gene Coyne deserves most of the crredit for making arrangements, buying the fiKxl, pro­viding prizes and refreshments, and doing a thou­sand other things required to make any affair successful. He was assisted by Doo Martin, Regis Lavdie, Joe fopa, Neil Galone, and Jack %fonteverde. The Club members who miss the picnic always miss one of the year*s top attrac­tions. We were glad to see a continent of present students there and hope they will con* tinue to patronize alumni events. We were also glad to see the Dick O'Dooiiells, the Jack O'Doa­nelb, the Bud Modlcn, the Dave Cartwri^ts, the Bemie Omroys, l^iky Martin, Sam Fapa and some other less frequent attenders. 
A luncheon in honor of R. Conroy Soogpns, Pittsburgh Club officers with Alumni President Scoggins (third from left). National Alumni President, was held on Tuesday, 
John Rocap, Joseph Scott, Mr. Scoggins, Club President Bob Fulton, 
August 21, at the University Club. Vince Burke made arrangements for the place, and approxi­
Timothy Galvin of Hammond, Ind., and John Lawler. mately thirty members turned out to enjoy a 
good luncheon and a nice informal meeting. Mr. Scoggins was in Pitt^urgh attending the annual convention of the Supreme Council of the Knights of Columbus. Wc were gratiBcd to have as additional guests Jolm Rocap, H m Galiin, John Lawler, the Honorabte Joseph Scott, all like^Wsc attending the K. of C. convention. Father V^nce Brennan introduced the guests of honor and Mr. Scoggins brought the local club up to date on alumni matters ^tith an interesting address. We v\'erc delighted to be able to meet this group of prominent Notre Dame men and hope they enjoyed their \is\t with us. 
Pittsburgh 
Our annual Golf Party' held at the Butler Country Club was a success due to the efforts of Gene Co5iie, Joe Tottcn and the "friendly un­dertaker*' Bill O'Brien. Jim Hutchinson^ former Club champion and present student at school, won the low gross prize. Other winners were: Bill Rockcnstein, Larry Enrigfat, Bill Schneider and Judge Boyle. A special high gross was given to Alex Lcsko after explaining that he was just learning the game. 
Jack Montwerde arranged for the guests, Vcr\­Re\'. Vernon F. Gallagher and Rev. Walsh, President and Vice-President of Duquesnc Univer­sity and also for Father Theophane Maguirc, who gave us an insight into the background of the present Asiatic problem from the point of Wew of a mtssioaary to the Far East, Don Fitzpatrick was kind enough to bring his projector and show films of last year's team. Larry Smith capably handled the toughest of all jobs, collecting the funds. 
John Crimmins, Larry OTooIe, Bill O Toole and Hugh Gallagher are all boasting of recent additions to their respective families. 
On August 9, the Pcnnsx-lvania State American Legion held its Convention in Pittsburgh. Through the efforts of John Hickey, one of the principal speakers was Dean *'F»t" Manion. After a rig­orous w-orkout at the Convention Hall, the Dean relaxed at our informal 7*hursday luncheon. He gave us a few **ofr the cufT" remarks about one of his favorite topics, the Natural Law Institute. For an impromptu affair, this was one of the best gatherings of the year. 
Please remember in your prayers the souls of Judge James L. OToole and ^Vllliam N. Stciiz, whose recent, sudden deaths have removed from our ranks two of our finest, most prominent Notre Dame men. 
J. R. FarrcU and Bill Moore attended the clam bake of the Scranton-Wilkes Barrc clubs August 8, and report that they "had a verj- good time with the bo>-s at that affair." 
J. R. writes, "In the I4th inning (I believe it was) of the ball game between the Wilkes Barrc and Scranton teams, and with the score at 20-aII, John Kramer, of the thriving town of Taylor, connected with one of Ed Rowan's pitches and hit the ball into the wocxls for a "Lost ball"—a play peculiar to the hard coal re^on I am sure. Consequently after the dinner of chicken and waffles that evening, the group voted that the undistributed side bet of $23 should be contributed to the Foundation ... " 
Rock River Valley 
Notre Dame Alumni, former students, present students, students entering the University, and friends attended the Rock River Valley annual Picnic Sunday, August 26, at the Joe Bittorf Lodge. The picnic began at 12 noon witli dinner ser\-cd at 2. Outdoor activities were on the agenda for the day—horseshoes, softball, speed­boat rides, and trap-shooting—with priz:s being ..oniributed by merchants of various cities within the club area. 
San Diego 
Wc are happy to report that tlie Noire Dame Club of San Diego has found that the Leather­necks can be the perfect hosts. As guests of 

Famiiy-stylc picnics arc becoming more and more popular with Alumni Clubs. Herewith the gathering of the Mid-Hudson Valley Club. 
Major James Donahue the members thoroughly enjoyed a delicious steak dinner and an evening of dancing at the Marine Officers' club on April 28. 
Of course wc.knew we were in for a big time because our own ^Leatherneck, Gen. Mulcahy, enthusiastically endorsed the affair, and when that happens evcr\'one know*s it's a sure thing. 
"Get out of this class" AfcCIaren entertained at table a few dozen people within shouting distance. 
If you are a betting man and you want to make some fast dincro trhilc watcfiing the fastest game in the world, contact Senor Jerrj' "big dca!" Bill, care of the San Diego Notre Dame Club. Our last social get-together was "spent" 
a: the Fronton Palace in Tijuana, Mexico. Tlie fascinating Jai-.\lai games were enjoyed by all and the feature event of the evening was officially dedicated to the Notre Dame Club of San Diego. Although we didn't all have the luck of the Irish, we did have a swell time and plan to return again in the near future. 
Our latest casualty out this way is one Walt 
J. Geudtner, who walked up the aisle with pretty Mis5 Eileen Fenny June 23. We certainly missed Walt at our last business meeting, but under thn circumstances will {arrive him. 
South Jersey 
Th e No tre Dame Club of So u th Jcn:cy re­cently held its annual elections with the following officers being elected for the coming year. 
Jack Murphy, President. 
Afatt Siedlecki, Vice-President. 
Ed Brickuer, Secretary. 
Harry Ycager, TreasunT. 

Tho club is adding to its active ranks alumni from a wider area of South Jerse>'. At our July meeting, whicli, incidentally, was a doggie roast and party for members and their wives, we ^v'ere happy to see Don Dick (Bridgeton), JDC Gosline (Ocean City), and Art Coughlan (Ocean City). Bob Thomas (Carney's Point) w*a5 in Camden for the August meeting. 
The fall program, now under way, is starting with a [ooihall rafHe, with Xaiy game tickets as the award and a probable television huddle for one of the home games. Longer range plans include a Christmas Dance and a Com­munion Breakfast. 
Let's hear from some of you recent graduates from Camden and vicinity. 
St. totffs 
Our annual summer picnic was Sunday, August 26, and was a gala affair. Following this activ­ity, on Wednesday, August 29, we had a "Gel-Acquainted Party" for the new students entering Notre Dame this fall from St. Louis and sur­rounding areas. 
Our new president, John Sulli%-an, and the Board of Directors have scheduled several events toward which \vc are looking forward: the club is sponsoring a special train to the SMU game; the annual raffle for the benefit of our scholar­ship fund; the annual Christmas Dance scheduled SOT Dec 28; Soln Dame Glee Club Concert at Kiel Auditorium January* 25. 

St. Joseph Valley 
Actixities Schedule cards for the coming year are now being printed and it should be noted that the club has four pre-game smokers sched­uled for the Fall football season. The smokers will be held on Friday night in the Rotar\' Room of the Oliver hotel preceding the home games with Indiana, Southern Methodist, Purdue and 

- Iowa. All Notre Dame alumni and their friends who attend the games in South Bend arc in­vited to these smokers. 
_ Mrs. Julia Holmes, mother of our club presi­dent. Bob Holmes, died August 22 after a bnel illness. Funeral scrv-iccs were conducted in South Bend on August 25. 
THE YEAR'S PROGRAM 

(Some dates are necessarily tentative, since final arrangements cannot be made this early). 
FOOTBALL TESTIMONIAL BANQUET—ten­tative date is Dec. 10, University Dining Hall. 
FATHER CAVANAUGH NIGHT—early Febru­ary*, in the University Dining Hall. 
ROCKNE COMMUNION BREAKFAST—March 30, Lay Faculty Dining Hall at the University. 
OLD TIMERS' FOOTBALL GAME—Mav 17 or 

24 (1952). 
ANNU.\L SUMMER GOLF AND DINNER PARTY—Too early to be specific about this one. The members have barely got over the aclies and pains of the 1951 outing. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

Tri-Cities 
President Frank XfcGuire called a special meet­ing of his fund-raising committee at the Rock Island K. of C. clubrooms on Aug. 8. George Vander Vennet was named chairman of a com­mittee to arrange for a fish fry on the Rock River in Moline September 14. Plans were made to show the picture "Highlights of the 1950 Football Season" at the get-together. Others who were named to the committee were Ralph C::ryn, Jerry Arnold, Al Ersluae, Jim Doyle, ViQce Goulet, Cam Bracke, Einmett Keenan, John Braet, and Ed Meagher. 
The Notre Dame wives continued their active program with a social meeting at the Davenport Country Club on July 25th. Mrs. Richard Swift and Mrs. Jerry Arnold were the hostesses. On August 29, Mrs. Bill Bernbrock and Mrs. Ralph Coryn entertained members at the Rock Island .\rsenal Country Club. 
Washingfon, D. C. 
The Washington, D. C , Alumni Club has com­pleted a number of successful events this summer and are busy in preparations for the big fall of 1951. 
A summer picnic brought out over 100 Alumm and their children. There were races, games, a penny hunt and novelties. Tlic picnic ^^'as spotisored by the wives of Notre Dame men and was the most successful picnic held in the history of the Notre Dame Club of Washington. 
The Club held an evening of group prayer for Dan Culhane*s little boy stricken with infantile paralysis. Latest reports are that little Steve Culhane is heading towards complete recovery. 
We are all hopeful of Gay Haas' complete re­covery after a serious back operation. 
Twenty-two Alumni participated in the Club's first Golf Outing. Hal Roddy recently returned from t\vo years of European duty, was low scorer with 78. Chairman Severin Beck finished second with 81. A dinner was held after the golf play and prizes were awarded by Chapliun \^nceat McCauley, C.S.C. 
Matt Aferkle was recently promoted to Lieu­tenant Colonel in the Army Air Force at the Pentagon Building. 
Old baseball players at Notre Dame are pre­paring for a new generation with a Junior Notre Dame Baseball Team sponsored by former varsity players, Jolin Braddock and Jim Corcoran. Ed Fenlon is the unoiBcial coach. Average age on the team is 10 years old. 
September 7 is a big night in the Club sched­ule with a combination Dance and a series of Cocktail Parties throughout the neighborhood in honoring our Campus Boys and sending them off *vjih a little of the old Irish spirit. The affair will take place at the Carlton Hotel, Washing­ton, D. C. 
Harry Boisvcrt is one of the leading Law Pro­fessors at National University and has been quite active recently in local affairs. 
Congratulations to the Robert Scfaellenbei^ upon the arri\-al of a Notre Damer of 1969. Also a St. Mary's candidate arrived for the Jim Corcorans. 
A fire in the Washington Touchdotvn Club can­celled our weekly Tuesday luncheons until Sep­tember. 
Congratulations to Leonard WaUh, newly elected President of the Washington Bar Association and a close friend of the Notre Dame Club of Wash­ington. Hc^s a former Minnesota varsity man. 
Big John Adams of football fame is building houses now in Washington. 
The Club is glad to hear that Ernie Zalcjilu will be with us for the football season playing with the Washington Redskins. 
Joe Kivlin took the big step and is honey­mooning in various parts of the Country, Congratulations to the Ed Fenlons upon the arri\-al of Timmy, a quarterback possibility. The Club is sponsoring a North Carolina trip for the football game at Chapel Hill the week-end 
September-October. 1951 
of November 16, under the arrangements of Don Stocking. 
Gene Klier gave up basketball for a professor's job at the University of Mar>-land and is active in our Club affairs. 
Any visitors to Washington arc cordially in­vited to stop in at our official Notre Dame Club Headquarters, 1740 K Street, N.W., Washing­ton, D. C. 
Congratulations to Walter Jf>hnson who seems to be heading towards the Presidency of Eastern Air Lines. 
Rudy Anderson assumes a new legal position with Johns Manville in New Jersey, and we're sorry to lose liim as one of our "real friends in Washington. 
A giant Na\T Game Rally is in the raakins for November 1, Uie evening before the big Baltimore Football Game. 
Danny Stack dropped in on the Washington Club as an Airline Captain. We're always glad to see visitors. 
Congratulations to CHnt \Vatson who has com­pleted the new 1951 Washington Club Directory. 
A Cocktail Party was arranged August 21 for the new students numbering 14 that wilt begin Freshman year this September. It was sponsored by the Campus Club. John Hinkel and Paul Tully represented the Alumni. Father Fossclman of the 1939 class is their Chaplain and was there also. 
The Washington Club is very proud of two beautiful lounge rooms newly installed in our Holy Cross Seminary* College on the grounds of Catholic University. 
West Virginia 
The Notre Dame Club of West Virginia has started a monthly luncheon, to be held on the first Tuesday of each month. The first luncheon was held August 7 and was attended by 18 members. John Cackley, Staff Project Director of the University Foundation, was a special guest. He gave an interesting report of the doings of the Alumni Association. Paul Klaas, Ph.D., '48, of the Sales Development Department of Rohm and Hass was an out-of-town guest. 
Alt Notre Dame alumni from the Charleston area as well as any alumni who happen to be in Charleston on the first Tuesday of the month are most cordially invited to join at our lunch which is held at 12 noon in the West Virginia room of the Elks Club, located on Quarrier St. in Charleston. 
Western Washington 
The Club ha? been successful in (at least the Club members think so) in having a Notre Dame priest made Retreat Afaster for all the summer retreats at St. Martin's College, Olympia, Wash. 
Rev. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C., was ap­pointed to that post by Most Rev. Thomas A. Connolly, Archbishop ol Seattle. 
The final three-day retreat began Aug. 23. This is the 34th year of the St. Martin's retreats and Notre Dame men have figured greatly in ihcir success. 
Wiffiamsporf 
At an informal dinner meeting the Williams-port (Pa.) ND Club named Mrs. Leo C. Barland chairman of a committee which will plan a bene­fit card party, with the proceeds earmarked for the Notre Dame Foundation. Mrs. Barland will be assisted by Mrs. William R, Downs, Mrs. Peter Somerville, Mrs. Joseph Neuwirth, Atrs. John B. Willmann, and other wives of Williamsport area alumni. The club recently lost its vice-president, Tbomas B. Dorris, who has moved from I^Iuncy, Pa., to 725 Graybill Drive, Tucson, Arizona. No successor has been elected to Mr. Dorris. 
The Irish Network 
Joe Boland, '27, assisted by Howie 
Murdock, '37, will broadcast all Notre 
Dame football games this year over a 
hookup recently named "The Irish 
Football Network." The stations are listed below, and will carry all games except those listed in B O L D FACE. The Army-Northwestern game Oct. 6 will be broadcast along with the Notre Dame contests. Five stations, listed "tentative" had 
not completed arangements with the 
Irish Network as this ALUMNUS went 
on the press. 
WARD, Johnstown, Pa. Anny, Northwesteni, Fin 
WBBW, Youngstown, O. 
WHEN, BulTalo 
Oetioit, Fin, Navy 
WBRD, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Detroit, SaatlKm Califoraia WBZ, Boston TENTATIVE . WCFL, Chicago WCPO, Cincinnati 
WCSI, Franklin, Indiana 
Detroit, Soutbcm Califomia 
WCUE, Akron, O. 
Detroit, Sottllicni Califofwa 
WDYK, Cumberland, Md. WEAM, Arlington, Va. WERC, Eric, Pa. WERE, Cleveland WFBG, Altoona, Pa. Detroit, Soatliem Califotvia 
WGL, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
WHLL, Wheeling, W. Va. 
Detroit, Soathcra Califonna WJEL, Springfield, O. Detrait 
WK.\I. Macomb. III. Detroit, Andne, Navy, Midiigali Sta'e 
WK.VX Saginaw Mich. 
Indiana, Detmit, Soatlwra CaBfoisia 
WMCA, New York City 
Navy 
WMUS, Muskegon, Mich. 
Detroit 
WOKO, Albany, N. Y. TENTATIVE WPEN, Philadelphia TENTATIVE WOAN, Scranton, Pa. TENTATIVE KSTT, Davenport, Ta. WSIV. Pekin. III. 
Demit, Soatkra CaEfonb 
WWEZ, New Orleans WWPB, Miami WWSW, Pittsburgh TENTATIVE WVMI, Biloxi, Miss. WXLW, Indianapolis Detnii, Soutbeni CaKIonia 
KDTH. Dubuque, la. 
Aray, NonkwcstcfB 
KXOK, St. Louis 
Detroit 
WMIN, St. Paul 
Demit 
WSBT, South Bend 
1904 
James R. Record is managing editor of the Star-Telegram in Fort Worth, Texas. 
1906 
DEATH 
C. Madden Jid 30, Mendota.
Ralph Maddrn, July in Illinois. 
1908 
William P. Galligan is now a postulant in the Brothers of the Good Shepherd, at Jcmez Springs, X. M. 
1911 
Fred Steers, Secretary-, 103 S. LaSalle, Chicago, III. 
DEATH 
Paul McDonald died July 30, in Columbus, Ohio. 
1917 
Edward J. AfcOsker, Sccrctar>­Cleveland Hdghu 18, Ohio 2205 Briarwood Road 
One of the 'healthiest people in Chicago these days b Paul Ffjgerty of WGN-TV's program, "Your Figure, Ladies." He has been bending, stretching, and breathing deeply since last fall when the program began. Paul began his career as a TV muscle moldcr weighing 198 pounds. In six weeks he reduced his weight to 174. Ten months later that^s still his weight. 
Paul has altered his entire wardrobe. He lost two inches at the waist. All his shirts an* too big because he lost one-half a collar size. 
Wonder how it feels to regain one's youth? Jimmy Phelan, master of colorful football, took his flambuoyant T-brand East to introduce it to the New York Yankees of the National Foot­ball League. This will be Jimmy's second pro­fessional grid venture. He coached the profes­sional Los Angeles Dons-in 1948^9 but was un­employed when the Dons were merged with tlie Los Angeles Rams a year ago. 
Clyde E. Broussard, of Beaumont, has been elected to the board of directors of the Rice Millers Association. The election took p!acc at the end of the millers' 3-day convention at Hotel Shamrock, Dallas. 
Clyde was the presiding major-domo at the pri^sentation in Beaumont of the Lactare Medal to Mr. John Henry Phelan, Sr. , 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy, Secretary, 1101 NBC BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 
DEATH 
James LauTence OToolc, LL.B. '21, died August 3, in Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Father P. Benedictus Oberdoerfer, O.S.B.,i August 2, 1951, in Saint Bernard, Alabama. 
1922 
Gerald A. Ashe, Secretary 39 Cambridge Street Rodicsler 7, New York 
DEATH Dr. Thomas L. Kcefe, August 21, in Logans­port, Indiana. 
1924 
Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C., Secretary Cavanaugh Hall Notre Daitie, Indiana 
Harold ^\*. Holderman and Leo Van Tilbury­arc directors of the West End State Bank in Mishawaka. 
1925 
John P. Hurle\-, 1218 Gty Park Ave., Toledo, Ohio 
The Class of '25 is on the move again. The secretaries of all the classes had a get-together in June just before the Alumni Reunion. One of the ideas that came out of the \"arious discus­sions with the secretaries up and down the line from 1898 to 1951 was that something should be done to bring tlie boys together between class re­unions. One of tlie best ideas I took from this gathering was that wc should meet once or twice .-. year before the football games in an informal way. 
On August 15 I called Bill Cemc>' and dis­cussed the possibility of the members of our class getting together with their wives. and any guests before the Southern Methodist game, October 13, and Purdue game on October 27. 
During the secretaries' meeting in June, Jim Armstrong and I discussed this and felt tliat it ^vould be a wonderful way for the fellows to keep in touch with each other and at the same time wc would be able to get sandwiches and coffee before the game. 
There is a food arrangement set-up by the ^fonog^am Club, ho%*"cvcr, outsiders are invited. In tliis way we do not have to take care of any food arrangements and we could get together about 11:30 a.m. before the game. 
Due to the fact that an Alumnus can only get two scats, there will be more reason than ever for these gci-togethcrs because many of the fel­lows will be driving to the game alone, with only llicir wives, 
t am sending a copy of this letter to the officers and a few others who might be inter­ested and would appreciate a letter or wire on your comments so that it could be published in the next Alumnus.: 
It was also suggested that wc use reunion-type badges on which our names could' be printed and in this way identify our class. We might also invite the Classes from *23 to '26 to participate. 
Give us your comments as soon as possible because Bill Cemey and his South Bend Com­mittee is ready to act. 
Thomas F. Coman, who has been in the news­paper business 26 years, will be a public member of the Wage Stabilization Board (WSB) beginning September I. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, he worked on newspapers in South Bend and Grand Rapids. In 1934, he Joined the staff of the AP in Detroit and was later transferred to Washington. Since 1941, Tom has been a labor relations specialist for the Bureau of National Affairs, a prix-ate reporting scr\'ice in Washington. 

'25 is greatly in favor of the plan for class get-togethers before the home games, and your secretary can file llic follou-ing reports: 
John Traynor wired from New York that he'll advise tlic entire New York crowd about our collaboration with the Monogram Club, and that he is all for the idea. 
Barney McNab, our Western VP, Harry Miller, our Prcs., and Paul RowwdiCf all got under the wire with communications, and votes for the project. 
From Barney; "I ha%-en't checked with Killkios or Harshi; lately so can't give too much news on the *25 crowd in Oregon. I'll be in San Francisco next month and will see what I can run down on this point." 
From Don: '*As I stated to you on the telephone I think your ideas' are splendid and I hope we can ^vork it out so that our class will meet at the Mono­gram Club in the Veterans' Recreation Hall at 
11:00 a.m. the day of the games. If notice can be given for our class to meet there before all of the games I think it would create a lot of interest among our classmates and induce thrni to return." 
From Romweber: 
"I've just Feiunied from a trip East and got your coimnunication. I feel that you might have something \-ery interesting; that is, regarding a reunion before the Southern Methodist game, but I don't think that game will be on my agenda this fall. The Homecoming of Campion High School Football team is that same Saturday and since one of my sons is a member of the team I feel that I would like to make this affair instead 
of SMU. • 
"I'll be more than happy to communicate with any of the boy$ in Cincinnati and will do this on my first opportunity." 
DEATH 
LtoDard .\loysius Bums, died July 21, in Al­toona, Pennsylvania. 
1926 
John J. Ryan, 2434 Gncakaf Ave., Chicago 45, Hi. Class Secretary John Ryan writes: 
Have you noticed, now that ue've reached the stage of celebrating 25th anniversaries, how fast the days run past? This column will bear out that thought. 
A short lime ago your secrctao" received a post­card notice from Jahn Bums calling for copv with a deadline of August 25. I was certain that John had overlooked the column I sent so let the card set on the dresser for a couple da\-s and then found out how wrong I was. The Alumnus came in and it had the column I sent. What John wanted was the next column! 
So I let the card set, time ran out, and here I am with a deadline, with nothing but my own gab to produce a column. If you'll recall the last column it had a remark "a secretary just reports what he sees and hears." And if I don't hear from you felloivs, this column will get to be awfully dull reading. So what can be done to keep it alive? I want suggestions. 

The other evening driving home from work I had my radio tuned to a music program. At the end of the program the announcement came, "this is a transcription of an earlier program rebroadcast while our stars are on vacation." I wondered if that might be an idea for a column. How easy it would be to send Bums a card saying "Reprint such and such column." But f think the first reaction to that by the firm of Aimstrong & Bums would be to reach for the '*Rulcs and Regulations for Class Secretaries" find Sec m B (1) A (IV) and immediately start proceedings to remove the secretary for mal­feasance, misfeasance, non-feasance or some like legal term. And, anyhow, as I have said before. I like the job and don't want to lose it. So, the reprint idea is out. ' 
When I took on the secretary's job a couple of years ago the situation was tailor-made. I had enough issues before our 25th Reunion to spread 
'the class and get a fine response. But I can't go back to those who answered. Or can I? Maybe I could send a card "\Vhat have you done lately?" After all, their letters covered 25 years. Or maybe those who did not get a chance to write before could ans%ver this plea for news. 
Or what about guest conductors? Are there 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Alumni Director Joe Morrissey (left) and Walt Neinaber, members of the Cincinnati Club Scholarship Committee presenting Bob Fleming of Purcell High with the Club's second 4*year scholarship to the University. 
any volunteers to take on .thu next column? Either on the basis of u-riting the column or sending cards (to addresses on the roster you have) to friends and saying "Give Ryan a hand— send him some news so he'll quit cr>*ins-" 
WcU icUows, there's my problem. 1/ you enjoy 
reading about '26^ send me something to work on. 
Now, for just a few bits of information: Mon­
signor Joe Toomey was in Chicago recently and 
a few of us had lunch with him—Ray Durst, 
George Hartnett (and George Jr.), Andy Conlin, 
and your secretary. It was a delightful couple of 
hours of reminiscing. 
A few days ago 1 bumped into John Griffin on MadisoQ Street. During our con%-crsation he told mc he had heard from Dr. George Dolmagc who had moved from Mason City, Iowa, to Phoenix, Arizona, where he had set up to practice Ophthal­mology at 620 Professional Bldg. If any of you arc in that vicinity, be sure to stop in to sec George who'll be glad to sec you personally, or professionally. 
One of our stalwarts has taken on a new-assignment. And it*s one that we pray will be very light work. Beirause of his closeness to the Alumni Office, Bill Dooley will handle arrange­ments for Masses for those of our class who make the Final Reunion. If any of you hear of the death of a classmate please notify Bill at once, care of Placement Office, Notre Dame. 
That runs your secretary dry of information 
for this column. Let me have your ideas for the 
next (and future) columns. 
The '26 class is off to a running start on the 
Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. 
Very shortly after the Silver Anniversary Re­union, two members of the class contributed $1,000 and $500 respectively toward the Testi­monial to Father Cavanaugh. 
DEATH Lawrence V. Kcefe, killed in an auto accident, July 26, 1951, in Pclham, N. Y. 
1927 
Frank Moran, Secretary 
633 E. MonitM: St. 
South Bend 6, Indiana 
I am not responsible for the occasional scram­bling of my notes in the July-August number; it occurred at a higher level, probably for reasons of security. If the present notes are meager however, it's because I've been loafing, not realizing that John Bums*s deadlines are as in­evitable as death and txxes. 
September-October, 1951 
Unfortunately, our president, '*Mike" Sn-ygert, has been ill and is under doctor's orders to take life easy for a while. We Iiope to hear soon that he has recovered completely. Meanwhile, he urges that all '27crs be thinking about and planning for the reunion and that evcr)*one make a big effort to be on hand. Just as quickly as his health permits, he will swing into action. 
' It has been suggested that among the first steps to be taken should be the appointment of a reunion chairman. Since the choice should probably be someone local, I hasten to recom­mend—disinterestedly—that it be a person of executive temperament and experience, which would rule out, of course, college professors. 
From Frank Pendergast, who as a bookman roamed the central plains for several years, then deserted to California, comes a breezy, witty letter, which Indicates that he has not as yet acquired the uncritical outlook of the native Califomian, which can be compared only with that of the native Texan, New Englander, or denizen of New York City. Penny . writes: 
Ontario. California 639 E. Bonnie Brae Ct. "Dear Frank: 
"After years of exile amid the sun-drenched sands and sun-struck natives of sunny California (Southern, that is), I was startled and un­ner\'ed by two (2) letters from former pals within tlic short period of a fortnight. Needless to say, they were joyfully received like a salving rain (as we drought ridden desert dwellers re­mark on occasions when the rest of the world normally say "like a ray of sunshine"). Even the utilitarian purpose of the letters which was obviously glaring out from between every lined page was ignored, and I rang for my secretary to come a-runriing with her knee saddle so I could dictate a prompt reply. 
"I, FJP, being of sound mind, etc., do swear that I haven't seen a real bona fide Notre Dame man of the Class of '27 for so long that I might fail to recognize him. I suppose that some of the breed lurk in the bagdad to the west of here, but I have never gone to any- of 
•their functions, though I surmise they hold some ... 
".\nyhow, Frank, we have been having much more exciting personal developments here during 
' the past month. First, we bought a spanking new home and moved in. . . . Then, second, a w'cek ago we adopted a baby girl of the ripe old age of 18 hours. Wc long have wanted one, but never liked to rush into things. Jane is as pleased as a gal with a live doll, so all is well and Susan Jane is queen. And c:an I make for* mula—and not the'kind Kaczmarek used to talk 
about. 
"As to work, I am the dtstnbotor for Fnn -
Kcm, a new food preservative, is the states of 
California, Arizona, and the country of Bfexico. 
As a Friday fish cater, yoa should benefit per­
sonalty when Fran-Kern brings yoa fresher fish 
and shrimp .. . 
"Tomorrow I'm leavii^ on a trip to San Fran­
cisco and Seattle, so may run into some '27crs. 
If so, I'll send the dope on to yoa, for I knot*' 
your job is sort of toogh nnless we all help , . .** 
Tom Dann, of Dunn and Hayes, Attorneys at 
Law, Morris, Illinois, reports having seen Penny 
and his wife a year ago and also a recent visit 
from Bin Coyae, who has been vacationing with 
his family in the Middle West. Tom says: 
"I don't see too many from the Class of '27. . . . Last Saturday Joka SoOivan, I and oar wives had dinner together in Chicago. Soily is now'living in Milwaukee and is with G.£. I see Clarence Rtiddy occasionally. He is still prac­ticing in Aurora. Once in awhile I hear from or about Joe Reedy, bat I never seem to see him. Hn was a Major m World War II and I'll bet even Joe can't explain that. Jack Dailey of Davenport was in Morris on business - and we enjoyed a visit. 
"I am looking forward to the' 25>year reunion. I really don't have much to suggest except that we probably should try and get a mimeognqihed list of the members of the class and their ad­dresses and encoun^e all of the members to write-and urge their friends to attend. I realize that there is some expense involved in this, but I will be willing to help in any way that I can."* 
Tom's suggestion concerning the. mimeographed list has real merit, but it would be aqtcnswe to-carry out. My own class roster runs to nine mimeographed pages. To furnish the class this. would have to be multiplied by more than 300. Then, there would be mailing costs. At present wc have a treasurer, but no,treasure; it is meta­physical and potential rather than .real. Ob­riously, if the reunion is to be organized, there-will have to be staoc contributions or a levy. Perhaps, if wc cannot afford a list for every member, one could at least be furnished to every, geognqihical club, or more informally, members could write to the Alumni ofiBce' for addresses of particular friends, with whom' they could com> . municiate privately—or through this column—to­find out who plans to be present. We're open to other suggestions. 
Rupe Wentworfh sends word that for severaT yean he has been exiled from the South and is now working in New Brunswick. N. J., for the da Pont Company in charge of Employee Rela­tions. Rupe says' that he "started with them in Alabama and moved progressively northward to Tennessee, Indiana, and. now New Jersey. (T consider the use of 'progressivelv' in the previous sentence only with respect to the time sequence. No true Southerner considers moving away from the South as progress.]" Rupe has been'married' 18 years and has two boys (16 and 6 resnrc­tlvely), the older of which will enter Fordham this fall. In the past f*^ years Rupe has seen-only Bin Carter and Hub Waltbcr among the '27 men. Bill, who still lives in South Orange, New Jersey, is in the Public Relations bu'ine-s­in Nevrark, and was, when last seen, stiM single. (In such a personable fellow as Bill, this ability to stay single shows that he has lost nnne of his youthful cahniness.) Hub b now an editor of a-trade journal in New York City, but spends most of his tune on a farm near BlaJrstowa, N. J. He is married and has four children. Rupe­would like to make the reumon but, as thinss­now stand, doubts that he'll be able to do it. 
In the last issue of the magazine we laid claim-to a part of one spotlight alumnus, ^ t Canay^ In the same issue appeared an account of another, Dick Hanoosefc, whcmi we can congratulate as a^ full-fledged '27 man. Dick, as yon noticed, was recently appointed vice-president and general man­ager of J; B. Calva. and Co. of Minnesqwlis.­
John Brennan. whose advancement to the posi­tion of Chief • Engineer of the American B!ower Corporadbn H'as also noticed in the preceding-number, has prmnised . to try to send me some material on other '27 men in the Detroit rejpon. 
Just a month ago, my wife and I had the pleasure of helping the Ray Snyders celdirate their twentieth wedding anniversary. 
Arthur J. Bradley is working as Recreation-Supervisor of the Newark Schools in Newark, New York. 
21 
1928 
Leo R. McInt>Te, Srcreurj­30(H Turner St. Allentou-n, Pa. 

From Jim Turlbert: ".. . To give you a brief sketdi, I graduated with the class of '28, and went into the field of retailing in Xe>v York City. Some 10 years ago I came to Detroit, and I am still in the same field with the firm of Crowley, Milner & Company, "Last evening I attended the Notre Dame Club of Detroit's annual Notre Dame meeting and had the very sincere pleasure of meeting Dean McCarthy, and listening to his ver^- inspiring and timely talk. There was a terrific turnout to hear the bean and everyone was greatly impressed with his message. • "The purpose of my writing to you at tliis time is to let you know that I am still alive and kicking, not the 'oblate spheroid' ... " From Father McShane in Denver, Colorado, comes the following: ".. . Facts about myself—I am James Lang­ford McSbane, graduated from ND in 1928. Or­dained priest in 1941 (June 18). I spent most of my time giWng retreats and missions for seven years. I was based in St. Louis' University after 1942 and the Alumnus magazine came to me there. I was based in Mankato, Minn., 1947­48 also ..." "The ND Alumni here in Denver are fine. I just came from K F E L. I heard a recording of a grand talk by Pat Manion. "I am now a Mexican priest in a Mexican parish. I speak Spanish fluently—i.e., the two words I know I speak fluently. I have teenage group activities, plus the annual play for March 
17. We'll sing and dance for the saint in Spanish. Pinwhcel Patrick, they call him ... " 
A, J. Bradley of Newark, N. Y., informs us that Joe Har\-ey is a District Attorney in New­ark and a good one, too. 
Also from Art Bradley we learn tliat Gene Schiltz is in the coal business now. 
1929 
Lairy Stauder, Acting Secrctar>" Easineerins Building Notre Dame, Indiana 

From Ollie Sdiaell: "My field of work has been accounting and to my degree from Notre Dame I have added a Master of Business Administration from New-York Univcrsitj* and a Bachelor of Laws from Brooklyn Law School. Aside from income tax, I have not felt any desire to practice law al­though I did sit for and pass the New York bar examination. I also passed the New York certified public accountant examination and am a member of the New York Sute Society of Certified Public Accountants as well as of the American Institute of Accountants. 
"I worked in New York City after graduation imtii 1942, when I enlisted in the Naw and was sent to Great Lakes. I never left there until I was discharged in October, 1944. Re­turning to New York, I resumed my duties on the staff of Price, Waterhouse, &. Co., until April, 1946. It was then that I decided to hang out the shingle in my home town of T>'rone, Pa. Life since then has been the usual accounting practice of books, audits, and in the first quarter of the year too much income tax. 
"As to family, I am what is commonly and accurately known as a confirmed bachelor, keep­ing a home with a brother and sister. 
"Now that the team is going to play in Pitts­burgh this fall, I expect to see Fhil Walsh who has a successful business in Butler, also the home of Bin Scbneider. While I was at Great Lakes. Mary and Frank Doaa saw to it that I was not homesick. I used to see them very often. Through the Doans I saw Jokimy Dorgan and others, but no doubt Frank is about due for a story in that area. 
"R^is Malooey js in Dubois, about 33 miles from here, but most of the fellows around here are 1930." 
Gene Galdabinl writes: 

".. . I haven*t much to report about myself other than that I have been in Milwaukee with Perfex Corporation for the past 14 years and am embarking now on a new- venture with the Peerless Pump Division of the Ford Machiner>' Products in Indianapolis. 
"I am, of courscj married and have two chil­dren, a boy and a girl. I spend a little time bowling and golfing, but my scores alwaj-s seem to be reversed. 
"My brother, August Galdabini, is also still located in Milwaukee managing the Manufactur­er's Box Co. and doing well. He has three swell boys. 
"Around Milwaukee I sec some of the ND boys, particularly Maurice Sconlon, Harold Wat­son, and Bill Mallancy. Also had a pleasant surprise visit by Chct Bnimbe^'e about a year ago. Chct is doing vcr>' well in Louisville. I cer­tainly would likt: to hear about the rest of the '29crs ..." 
TIic appointment of Karl A. Kaschewski as di­rector of the reciprocal trade division has been announced by OricnteT, Ltd., exporter from Japan. The company supplies chemicals, deter­gents, and other products for the textile indus*.r>*. Karl formerly was Aviih W. R. Grace & Co. 
E. ANDREW STEFFEN 
At 27 one of the youngest assistant 

U. S. District Attorneys in the country, "Bud" Steffen is also the youngest ever appointed in Indiana. 
He was appointed last month to the Indianapolis (Southern Indiana) Fed­eral District Court by Attorney-General 
J. Howard McGrath. Prior to the ap­pointment he had been law clerk to Federal Judge William E. Steckler since June, 1950, when he graduated from the University. 
At the University he was editor of the Notre Dame "Lawyer" and served as first chairman of the National Con­ference of Law Reviews. 
Before graduating from the Univer­sity he served three years as a combat infantryman in France. A native of Indianapolis, he attended Cathedral High School there. 
The class is moving into the lead with family 

memberships. 
Two '29crs report eight and nine children, re­

spectively. 
The father of eight is Mr. Fred C. Miller, of 

Milwaukee, who is also reported connected irilh 
the brewing interests. Fred's boys and girls are 
as follows; Claire, 18; Fred, Jr., 17; Lorctta, 15; 
Kate, 13; Gail, II; Robin, 10; Corky, 8; Carl, 7. 
Sid Sideofadcn, president of his own gas com­

pany on the Pacific Coast, tells his own story; 
. "Dear Larry, Excuse the delay in replying to 

your postcard of July. I have been on vacation 
and consequently have had many things to do 
which have prevented me from an earlier answer. 
"I am enclosing an annual report of our com­

pany which gn-es you an idea of my job and 
present doings. I still hold (I believe) the title 
of cbampioa father of the class of '29, with nine 
.children, five boys and four girls, thus; 
.f Susan, 10; Tommy, 9; Margaret, 8; Bobby, 7; 
Billy, 6; John, 5; Mar>-, 3; Jane, 2; Kathrjn, 
6' months. 
"Vour card asks me to relate other interests, 

ofhces, clubs, etc The above should answer a*l 
these. questions. Give my regards to Don 
Plunkett." 
1930 
De\-erc Plunkett, 
Soda] Science Building 
Notre Dame, Ind. 

Twenty-five years ago this month of September several hundred young men of assorted size; entered Notre Dame to pursue the higher learn­ing. This was a very sophisticated group of freshmen—the Class of 1930. Being smart shop­pers they quickly grabbed up all the used books offered for sale by the upperclassmen—real bar­gains, except that those books were no longer in use in ND classrooms. At least one-half of the freshman class submittMi to an informal physical examination in Sorin Sub where facilities were generously provided by the Seniors that year. 
Then, followed the fumilure auctions. Our freshmen, eager to jump into the real ND tra­dition, purchased many \*aluahle antiques—ro­mantic pieces of furniture, hand car\-ed by French craftsmen and brought to Notre Dame by Father Sorin and Gcoi^e Gipp. After these preliminaries, the Class of 1930 settled down to try to outguess the profs for the next four years. 0\'er five hundred of the class succeeded. 
The most shocking news to reach 1930 men recently was the accidental death of Bill Steitz. Among Biirs varied interests in life was his strong affection for Notre Dame which he dis­played on many cKcasions in recent years. To Mrs. Steitz and BilPs family the Class of 1930 wishes to express its sincerest condolences and promises to remember Bill in prayer. 
Along with Zeno Staudt's letter, which appears below, came a description of the ''Song and Fun Fests" which Zeno promotes at Estes Park, Colo­rado, and at Phoenix, Arizona. Mr. Staudt, you ha*-e won yourself the chairmanship of the en,»cr­tainment committee for the 1953 Reunion! Noting that the success of your programs depends. on audience participation, you can't fail at tliis reunion. Everybody wants to (and docs) get into the act. Recall that Friday night affair of the 1930 reunion! 
Spike Fjglaiid and H m Moytiihan are key men in the big Los Angeles celebration this fall to commemorate the 25 years of the USC-ND foot­ball series, the 20th anniversary of Rocknc's death, and the lOth anniversary of the death of Howard Jones. 
Had a short note recently from Murray Hickey' ley. He >«Tote: '^Thanks for thinking of me. Met Bert Metxget this morning on LaSalle St. (Chicago). He looks fine. Also saw Lou and Locillo Hasler (author of "Reproachfully Yours," Sheed and Ward, N. Y.) at the Sherman Hotel recently. 
**Last twenty years: tobacco business. New York Sunday Times book reviewing, U. S. Army (2!4 years in Europe), college teaching, etc 
"The world? A little less puzzling, a little more beautiful, and MUCH more violent than it was from ND*s fenestral finalities." 
As mentioned before, Zeno Staudt wrote in about his present activities: 

The Noire Dame Alumnus 

You don't have to be a Dale Carnegie to know that you'll never offend a person by saying, "Please tell us about yourself." 
This, then, is in answer to your request. 
Business activities? 13 years a life insurance salesman . . . then V.P. and CM . of the Buckeye Aluminum Co., Wooster, Ohio, for szvcrrl war and post-»»ar years . . . and now, back to my old love of No'-rc Dame days. 
The old banjo and guitar are back in tunc and I am entertaining at Colorado and Arizona hotels, ranches, resorts, etc., with an original t>-pe of **Song and Fun Fest." (This in addition to life insurance? selling.) Wc enjoy four summer months in Loveland and Estes Park, Colorado, and eijht months in Phoenix, Arizona. 
From the class of '30 I sec practically no one but would love to renew acquaintances whenever any arc nearby. 
I would like to know the present address of Dave Barry, '30. Long, long ago I received an invitation to his wedding but no address was given!!! (Tr>- 1902 Ramblewood Rd., Baltimore.) 
Jon Beljon, *30, co-composer of "My Prom Sweetheart" and pianist extraordinary, would surely be welcome at our musical parties . . . so would any and all other comers. 
Sorry I missed the *50 reunion but I'll be planning on the '55 affair and would be happv to help with the "Song and Fun" portion of the program. 
Tim Toomey of New York City came through with the following letter: 
Your note was waiting for me upon my return to the City from my vacation and I trust my reply reaches you before the "dead line." Here goes—Wc were all profoundly shocked to hear of the tragic death of Bill SteiU. The p-or guy certainly had a zest for Hving. Please ptss the word along to the family that I have asked Father Jim Rizer to offer Holy Mass for the repose of his soul on behalf of the entire cla's. Incidentally, Father Jim is now located at St. Mary's Star of the Sea, Fort Monroe, Virginia. 
During my vacation I enjoyed a plea-ant visit with Joe Jachyn, '29, the basketban-bas-ban star. He is teaching and coaching in Westfield. Mass.. and has had great success. Joe is marnVd and has four fine looking children. Joe and X have been friends since high school days when Westfield and my old home, Greenfield, used to compete for the Connecticut Valley high school cham­piomhip^. 
T drove up to Kecne. X. H., to see Tom Quahers, '29, former bodyguard to the late President Roosevelt. Tom is the chief of th-; local police force and is real happy in his n-w assignment. He will be glad to see friends who might be traveling through Kern" on the wav to the White Mountains. (He will greet them socially and not in his official capacity as chief of the local constabulary.) 
Tim O'Rourke has joined the staff of the New York Life. He is manager of th= adminis­tration division of the Group Department. 
It is interesting to note your AVest Coast cor­respondent, Geoi ^ 0'MaIle>% u-jll be rn "dry­dock" for awhile with all the chang-s in Naval legal procedure. I think good old G?onie is an "author" at heart. Wc must give him credit because he does come through with some splendid letters. 
I liopc you enjoy a pleasant school year. Keep up your good work. Judge Tom McDougal of Antigo, Wisconsin, wrote recently: 
Received your letter and was very happy to hear from you. I just received the Alumnus yes­terday and that was my first knowledge that D<>n had been ill. Give him my personal regards atid sympathies and tell him to walk the chalk mark oi fat as medical advice is concerned. 
There hasn't been much happening up in these north woods. Bert Metzger stopped at the house one evening and unfortunately I was trout fishing and did not gel a chance to see him. which I felt very bad about. Another Notre Dame man stopped m at the Court House, who used to set tables with me. but at the moment the name slips my mind. 
I would have liked to return for the reunion this year Just to see the gang, but could not get away. I have been devoting my time to quite a bit of court work, mostly juvenile delinqucncx-. consequently, I have had very little time for vacation. 
September-Ociober, 1951 
If I can possibly make it I am going to try to 
attend one of the football games this fall and 
make it a point to see you and Don. I very 
much appreciate your column and congratulate 
you on the fine secretary you arc for our class. 
With personal regards to both you and your family and Don and his family and t will say a few "Aves" for Don's recovery. 
Samuel "Bo" Richards wiitcs an interesting 
account of doings in his sector. Here's "Bo": 
Please accept my humble apologies for not an­swering sooner your letter in which you asked me to furnish you with some news for the '30 column in the Alumnus. I have been over my head both at the oflSce and at home here of lat?, other%visc you would have heard from mc sooner. 
Dev, although your letter was brief, I want to say ii wa< good to hear from you after all these years. Your letter was like a "shot in the arm." I am expressing it mildly when I say it brought back many happy memories of those care­free days filled with books and revelry or should I say principally the latter? 
If we are still ahead of the "dcadh'ne," I shall, with some degree of propriety, oblige you as well as my classmates, many of whom I have not seen since I departed from the inspiring atmosphere of the Golden Dome, with some news concerning roy wanderings since that time to my present situa­tion. 
Before proceeding further in order to bring the record up to date and for the purpose of restor­ing peace and tranquillity in my household, I want to state that my family consists of two daughters, Mary Suzanne, 9 years of age, and Kathleen Diane, 7 years of age, and two sons, DaWd, 12 years oi age, 'who is entering Rockhurst High School this fall, and Donnie Joe, 3^4 years old, who appears to be a good prospect for the fullback position, and a patient and understand­ing wife in the person of Alice. 
In this regard, I wish to thank our mutual friend, Bcmie Conroy, for reporting to the class at the reunion last year as to my whereabouts and my family. However, it seems that the print­ers left out vital information relayed by Bernic concerning my daughters, which I am sure you wil! appreciate has caused me no end of headache powders from my wife and daughters. Therefore, 
Franklyn C. Hochrcitcr, '33 enjoying him­self and a cooling draught at the Baltimore Club family outing. 
it is with a deep sense of relief thmt I hcrcwiUi 
correct this situation. 
As you may recall from the dim past, I left 
Notre Dame in Pcfannuy, 1930, at whid tone I 
transferred to Georgetown to cooqilete my law-
work, together with Ictaie Doaochar, Dirk's 
younger brother, and Jok« Skimmau, after the 
late Tommy HiDi, llocfcM>B backfieH coach and 
chief scout, was appointed head footba'l coach at 
Georgetown, and the ippointmcnt of the late 
John Colricfc, Tim Mvrmhaa and Tommr Mnrphr 
as assistant coaches. 
Jofai "Utile CKwcr" Smhk. Ffndi Kenjo. and Fnuk Leabr followed later as SIQV auistant coaches. Next to the anmortal Rockor, it K-as a genuine thrill an) pleasure to play football under Tommy and these six farmer Notre Dame greats. While at Georgetown, I got a b ^ kick out of playing against such teams as Dnqueme, Miclii';an Sute. and Villa Nova, siace tlM7 were coached by Ebacr Laydta; Jama Cnwlcy and Bany StuhMrther, respectively, of Four Horsemen fame. Also, against Detroit, which was coached by Gna Donus, who was on the throwing end of all those passes to Rockiw, and in pa*ticnlar that day on which this combination practically annihil­ated a loeat Anny team on the plains of West Point. In fairness to Toimny it shnold be tatei it was the consensus that he had the makings to develop the finest team in the East. 
However, scholastic difficulties restdted in su.<­pension of many fine playeis, who later gain-d recognition whOe plaving for other schools. The fact that I missed the a.e still remains a myt­tery to me! Yon knftw, Dev. I never was much for pursuing the fine art o{ digging into the books. 
After receiving my law degree from Geotgetn%ni. I settled in Washin-ton and lived tliere rnt-1 1945. During my sUy in Washington, I was a partner in the law firm of Buckley and Kichatds. and served in adm)ni<trative caoacitics and as an attorney in several Federal ofSces. I met mr Waterloo when I fell hard for a lovely Irish Miss from Butte. Montana, who was attending law school in Washington, and was married in Janu­ar>-, 1938. 
In addition to InoVtng aft^r my usual worlunT duties while in Washington, I manajfcd to get in seven years of football coaching as head ca«di at Gonzaga High School and Landon Prep School fno relation to Alf!) and co-coach of the AII-Prep team. 
While coachins Gnn7a<n*. I W9< fortunate in coaching its trams to two Catholic Prep cham-Dtonships of the Wa<hfn^oo metr'*po]itan area. During my coachinv. I a'^^o had the privile-#» o' comDetia.ff avainst fams that^ wre coac**rd h-former Notre Dame men., namely H'^ward "Howie** Smith, our classmate. • who d'>ve1oped fine t^am< and acr«^r^inc to reports if ••till d^InK so at Mt. St. MichaeIN in New York C-ty, Vim* McNally. who coached Georgetfrn-n Univrr­sitv during the war years, wh'-n we m«aeed in an informal scrunmave. and Arthnr "Dntch" Berg­man, who coached the All-High team. 
I enjoyed the "look-in" from the othT side of the business of football. particuIarSr with re-i>M:t to workmg with such fine bovs. The en'hiisiasm of the bovs wa« not onlv cont^^us but w]>s refrvshin" as well. Ycx. I still like that "old ginniger." 
I cnntintied my G-^vrmm^at work in Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1943. and returned to Wash* in?ton for a brief period in 1946. In September, 1946,. due to my parents* state of health, who live in Oklahoma, I moved to Kan^a^ City and taught business law to aporovimately 280 studrn*', who for the most part consisted of veterans, at Rockhurst College; and I was a'so assistant coach of the foodiall team. 
Also taught real property and contract law* in an evenin« school here in Kansas City for a while. This teaching esoKri^nce also provided me with a "look sec** into the teadiing profession. Believe me. I certainly can appreciate what my professors at Notre Dame and GeT>r«etown had to contend with in their teaching diores. and which has increased my deep resp-ct and ad> miration for them and the noble work in which they are engaged. 
Then, too, I found teaching very exhilarating work and requiring considerable burning of mid* night oil in preparation for classes. At the con­closion of summer school, I returned to Govern­ment sen-ice as a claims officer and in a le^al 
23 

The Century Club—an indigenous Chicago outfit composed of members of the '42 Class, I an outing they provided for orphans of the Bishop Shell Home. 
capacity, in which work I am presently engaged. 
The grandest thing that has h^pcned in this 
part of the country since' I have been here was 
the appointment of Lairy "Moon** Mullins as 
director of athletics at Kansas State College, 
which had not been going anywhere, athletically 
speaking, in recent years. It provided a great 
occasion for rejoicing because wc all know it 
could not have happened to a finer guy than 
Moon and his wonderful family. The only re­
grettable thing .about it w-as that it did not 
happen sooner, because Moon established himself 
as .an excellent player and outstanding coadi 
many years ago. I (insider it, along with the 
alumni and others here, the best capital invest­
ment ever made by Kansas State in the history 
of its athletic program, which will pay off for 
many years to come. 

Everyone knows it will take a little time to lay tlie ground work but arc confident that the athletic fortunes of Kansas State arc definitely on the upgrade from here on. I have had the pleasure of seeing Moon on several occasions since I have been here. It was indeed refreshing to see him as being the same guy we all knew at school. No change whatsoever and still full of enthusiasm, vigorous and youthful looking as ever. Wish, wc had his secret formula for immunity* against Father Time??? 
He looks trim and in such good shape as to be able to suit up and play'GO minutes this coming Saturday afternoon. We all know Moon gradu-* ated in the class of 1931. However, I understand the '30*ers have established claim to him by virtue of prior rights, to which I heartily :nibscribe. I am sure my statement reflects the sentiments of all Notre Dame men, when I say, with pride, that it is an honor to have such a high-class gentleman constantly subject to obsen-ation by the general public as Moon, who is imbued with the fine traditions of Notre Dame and the Im­mortal Rockne^ to guide and influence the athletic fortunes of Kansas State. 
He is a great asset to any institution. Accord­ing to the saying of our time. More power to Moon and his Kansas Sutc Wildcats!!!! 
I believe I am the only *30 representative hereabouts. Father S%veexiey, now President of Portland Uni\-ersity, who was here" several times in connection with his duties as Executive As­
24 
sistant to Father Cai'anaugh, and Moon are the only '30 men that have crossed my path here. However, I hai-e received nice letters from Danny "Boom Boom'* Cannon, giving me the dope, among other things, on hb brother Jack; James Burke, who is in the real estate business In Oklahoma City, and our great football man­ager. Bob Hellrung of St. Louis. 

Also, had the pleasure of a nice \*isit with Charlie Farris, '33, one of the grandest guys ever to come out of Notre Dame, when he was here attending to Goi*emment business. Charlie is assistant director of the Home and Housing Authority. That fellow has talent to bum and Is a credit to alma mater. 
Larry Moore, '29, another grand feIlov%-, was through here some time ago but unfortunately I was out of town, JtAn Dugan, I believe of the class of 1927, was also disappointed that he missed Larry. John is the proprietor of Ro­mancUi's, more appropriately, called "Duffy's Tavern," and is the faTOpte^ineetlng place *of all Notre Dame men here.^*^ 
I ah\*ay5 run into Bob Tyler, '29, Tom and Ed Reardon, among others, when I stop in there occasionally for a refreshen However, I have yet to meet with Forrest "Fod" Cotton there. Fod, if you recall, was one of the mules in that fonnid:d}Ie forward wall that opened up those gaping holes for the famous Gipper, Dntdi Berg­man, Johnny Mt^ardt and others. I see Tod sporadically as his time is limited like mine look­ing after his work and the business of maintain­ing a large family. 
Fod looks good and seeing him as solid as a 

•' rock, I can appreciate those stories the>* tell about him being able to handle one side of the line all b>: himself. and for 60 minutes in those days!! • 
- Tlie Annual Rockne Memorial Banquet, which is sponsored by Dr. Nigro, was a tremendous success this year. Those attending were Mrs. Rockne, and the cKildren, Jeanne Marie, Billie and Knute, Jr., also, Rock's old coach, Jesse Harper, Gus Dorais, Moon MuUins, Fod Cotton, John Dugan and many other distinguished personages. Jackie Rockne was unable to attend because of school %vork. It was held at the Continental Hotel and approximately 400 persons were in attendance. 
The speeches by Harper, Gus and Moon were 
very touching. Gus' speech brought out many things that were not generally known about Rockne.- Dr. Nigro is to be complimented for his unselfish efforts in holding this aifFair annually in perpetuating the memory of Rockne. During my brief stay here, this ajflair instead of losing Its s^peal, appears to be growing from year, to year. 
It seems that more people, particularly those who never saw Rockne in his lifetime and still appreciate his greatness, are eager to learn more about this inspiring and profound teacher of the science of football as it was played according to his high standards. 
Dcv, please pardon me for burdening you with such a lengthy letter as I entertained no such intentions at the outset. However^ I did want to write a long letter, which I have handled in several Installments despite the heat, humidity, low celling, poor \'islbllity, old age, distractions, both at the ofifice and at home by the kids, with­out the-benefit of air conditioning. 
This letter may contain some verbiage and di­version but on the other hand I have elaborated at length for several reasons, namely, (1) since this is my first letter, I really had to knock myself out to make up for about two decades of silence to bring the record up to date, (2) the thought that perhaps a long letter would be a challenge to classmates of whom I have had no news for ages and provide the necessary im­petus for them "to open up" and write con­cerning themseU'es and their families, which is the kind of neu-s we like to read about in our column. 
I like the way the '27 and '28'ers. and also the class of '34, among others, operate. It appears that although all members of the class do not write the class secretary annually, there is, however, a system wherdiy sufficient numbers do write thus providing broader coverage as to Indiriduals in the class. 
It may be well to consider following their pat­tern because those fellows really keep each other posted! and (3) I resoK-ed to extend my'self for the sole purpose of getting more space coverage In the '30 column in the Ahminus than the classes mentioned even at the sacrifice of being on the short end in the matter of substance. I would say this is perii^» due to that *'old competitive spirit.*' However, Dev, please feel free to delete any Items- contained herein which you feel are irrcle%-ant and not of interest to our classmates. 

Thanks again for your kind letter and for "firing me up." This reply or should I say thesis, work, or some such thing that describes it more adequately, at least as to quanttmi. speaks for the effecti\'encss of your letter. If you or any '30*er should happen to be in this neck of the woocb, please know that the welcome mat at 7132 Walnut is out at all times. For the infonnation of all concerned, I want to put up a warning sign, including the necessary storm windows, that I am long overdue for one of those "old-fashioned bull sessions." 
I would enjoy having some takers on the scene in the inunedlate future. The thought occurs to me that you might as well put me In the cer­tain column for the '55 class reunion as I intend to make it if I have to. crawl to get there. 
My kindest regards and \'ery best wishes to you, Dcv, and to all our classmates and with the hope that alt, including the families, are enjoying the best of health, and are thriving and pros­perous in their bttsiness activities. Keep up the good work. 
NEW ADDRESSES OF 1930 CLASS MEMBERS Norman Bradley, 545 Wm. Penn Way, Pitts-bui^h. Pa. 
Harold E. Duke, 2911 N. Broad St., Phila­delphia 32, Pa. 
J. Gilbert Prendergast, 1044 Mathieson Bldg., Baltimore. William A. Singer, 3408 St. John's Dr., Dallas. Joseph £. Ryan, 227 Chester Rd., Columbus 9. Rev. James L. Rizer, St. Mary's Star of the Sea, Fort Monroe, Va. 
Royal J. Higgins, 10430 S. Hoyne Ave., Chicago. 
Joseph V. Mooney, 250 N. Yukon, Tulsa, Okla. 
J. E- Nowery, 3921 Richmond, Shreveport, La. John H. Coulin, P. O. Box 443, Monroe, Mich. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

Patrick J.'Comvay, 70S S. Arling.on Mill Dr., Arlington, Va. Rev. Wm. E. BuTchill, c/o WelUburg P. O., N., Bcn'iiey Creek, Pa. John T. Harrington, 2780 Scventy-third PI., Apt. 
101. Hyattsville, Md. David J. Rielley, 2015 Grand, Kansas City 8, Mo. Jeromo Reidy, 1337 Webb Rd., Lakcvillc 7, Ohio. Ray A. Layce, 433 Jackson St., Gary, Indiana. Robert L. Riglcy, 1250 E. Maitland Dr., Winter 
Park, Fla. James M. Schalfer, 4555 Ridgcvalc .Ave., Apt. 12, Montreal, Canada. Wm. N. Sherman, McCambell Lane, c/o Sand­niann House, RFD 12, Knowille 14, Tcnn. Ted A. Twomey, 2108 Bragg St., Apt. C, 
)hlobiIc, Ala. John D. Yelland, Astoria, Oregon. Edward J. England, 1970 S. Beverly Glen Blvd., 
Apt. 8, W. Los Angeles 23. Calif. Thomas F. Lantry, 42 Huron Rd.. Tuckahnc, 
N. Y. William D. McCarthy. 3909 Juman St., Tampa. Fla. Robert L. McDonald, 1215 Clay St.. Oakland, California. Dr. Wm. H. Moran. 5161 Oakwood. La Cavada, Calif. Frank D. Noel. 4616 Mass. Ave. N.W., Wash­ington, D. C. John McRamcy, 2103 Summit St., Sioux City, . Iowa. Francis J. Rooney, 200 Brooklaiin Terrace. Bridgeport 4, Conn. Dan Sullivan, 1504 Pcntridge Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
Warren S. Fogel, wife and two daughters of New York City spent a week in August with John E- Motz, wife, three sons and three daugh­ters in Kitchener, Ontario, Canada. 
SYJfPATm* To Robert A. Holmes on the death of his mother in South Bend, Indiana, August 22, 1951. 
1937 
James T. Doyle, 6457 N. Ben Am., CSuatga 45, HI. 
Jim Doyle, your class sccrctaiy, writes: 
For all the members of the class of '31 who attended the Reunion I wish to thank you and the University for excellent arrangements and a grand time. The setup in Farley Hall was the best yet and made it easy to keep the gang going strong in one spot. 
Bob Cunningham called on the phone to say he received back issues of the Alumnus and will be anxiously awaiting the arrival of future issues. Since his bout with multiple sclerosis he is con­fined to his home at 4451 W. Dickens St., Chi­cago, Illinois. I am sure he would like to hear from his classmates as Bob asked for many fel­lows who. were not at the Reunion. Bob ap­preciated the help given him in his wheelchair at school and particularly the efforts of AI Stepan and Bert Metzger who transported him in their station wagon. 
Francis Henneberger sent a card on the Sixth Annual Tri-State Notre Dame Club party at Princeton Country* Club and expressed his regrets at missing the Reunion due to last-minute business, 
F. X. Murphy, Jr., formerly of ^famtowoc, ^Visconsin, and now located in Roswell, Ne^^r ^fexico, sent a w-irc to Farley Hall expressing his regrets and saying he would be with us in spirit. His son, Mike, was critically injured in an automobile accident a few months ago, but is now on the way to recovery. ' 
Bert Metie r of Bowman Dair>* Company has been named a Vice-President of the Chicago Salesmen's Club. 
Spike Sullivan in his ' letter to Gil Seaman thinks he can supply tlie address of Charley McKeever who is now in the San Francisco area. 
Jim Kearney is now located at Rural Route 2, Fairfax, Virginia, and assodated with the Office of the Secretary of Defense. He had hoped to make the reunion if possible. 
Bob Cunnmgham just called on the phone with a bit of neu's. It seems as ' though the Honorable Ridiard Barber, City Judge of Rye, 
Septemhet'October, 1951 
TOM POWERS 

First Lieutenant Tom Powers, '42, former Chicago Tribune copyreader, has been appointed public information officer at Camp Carson. 
Lieutenant Powers was in charge of military police patrols in Colorado Springs from October of last year, when he was called to actiye duty from the sports department of the Tribune, until last June when he left to attend the Armed Forces Information School, Fort Siocum, N. Y. 
He was drafted in November of 1942 and served in a prisoner of war escort guard company until March, 1944, when he entered • the Transportation Corps Officers' Candidate School and was commissioned a second lieutenant in July, 1944. 
He was again assigned to the military police, was promoted to first lieutenant in February, 1945, and later attended Military Police and'Infantry Schools. 
Released from active duty in March, 1946, he joined The Pittsburgh Press as a reporter, leaving a year later to become local news editor of Radio Sta­tion WPIT, Pittsburgh. He joined the Tribune in October, 1947. 
While at Notre Dame, he was mana­ging editor and editor of the Natre Dame Scholastic. Two of his brothers also are Notre Dame graduates: Rev. Joseph L. Powers, C.S.C., '37, recently assigned to the faculty of Portland Uni­versity, and John B. Powers, '43, of International News Photos, New York. 
New York, was arrested for jay^valking in South Bend, and had to pay a fine. Bob says that Ed Mahin and Johnny Bums didn't do him any good in trying to get out of the fine. 
Moon Mullins writes: "I don't know how I happened to get on the maili:as list of the Chi­cago Club When you sent out your literature on the 20-year reunion, June 8-10. After lotrfung over the list of hoodlums who make up your Chicago conmiittee, I doubt that I want to rcmam on that lut. The main purpose of this letter is to leC you, and anyone else in the good oM class of '31 know that I am about as disappointed as I can be. .Our whole family was going to South Bend from Davenport, Iowa, cnroute to our new home in Manhattan, Kansas. Then someone in our Big - Seven Conference decided we ' needed a 
special meeting in Kansas City June. 8-9*10, and I had to be there. Regards to my friends and best wishes to all.** 
Jack Dempsey made the reunion, but wrote earlier that "five boys and two girls prevent my bringing the head of the house with me." AJ Stepan and Father Bout e Bfotaett, please note. 
Matt CoUiaan, fonncrly of San Francisco and temporarily rending in I«s Angeles between trips throughout the world, writes: 
"Your note atop the 'Twenty-Year Reumon*^ in­vitation was most certamly unexpected, and -a^ predated. I also see that I'm among the missing as far as knowledge of my whereabout. It has been rather a difficult problem for even my im­mediate family to keep track (^ • me in recent years, for I've been somewhat of a world traveler. 
"During the war I was assistant genera) super­intendent of the Moore Navy Shipyard, Oakland, California. After the cessation of hostilities, I was stationed in Honolulu, as representative of the American President Line, until one of the San Francisco 'bridges* gave us troi^Ie—Harry Bridges, that is. I then spent a few years in Saudi Arabia, as a represcntati%% of the construc­tion company, Bechtel, which is dmng all the construction for the Arabian American Oil Co. My duties were to become friendly with the Arabs and to maintain their friendshqt so that our em­ployees would be greeted in a friendly manner when the work progressed into their bailiwicks. Naturally, I saw a good deal, of the land as well as Palestine, Egypt, Ldunon, Iraq, Iran and as far as into India. I still consider myself for­tunate indeed, that I escaped harm after our President voted to establish Israel as am inde­pendent state as our business was with the Arabs. At any rate, being of a rather dark complexion, and being 'blessed in this case* with a proboscis that anyone would be more than pleased to have stuffed with nickels if he were broke, the Arabs took me for an Arab and the Je%«rs as a Jew. 
"Upon iny return to the Sutcs, I took a short \*acation and then fiew to the t)rient, where my work took me to Manila, Australia, Japan, Cfiina and Okinawa. The 'Truman and Acheson* war interrupted this work, so I repaired to the States, and finally settled do%vn, a Matthew Ar­nold to my own people of Northern California, in the hamlet of Los Angeles. This should bring my record up to ilate. So many of the names of the fellows on your invitation are familiar. AI Stepan. GQ Seaaua, Nidc BoUW . Bert Metiger, Don 0*Toole, little Eddie Ryan. 
"ToBK Aslw is here as vke-president of the Globe Tool Company, and is very c:^>ably running Howard Hughes a race for supremacy in the oil tool business. Tom, you must have heard, is the proud father of twins. I haven't seen him in about a year, but will one day soon. In 1947. enroute to the Middle East, I stopped off and made a visit to Falbcr Fat Haggcrty at Notre Dame. It was during the summer, but I was amazed at the difference between the school as I knew it and as it is now. I can realize Rip Van Winkle's feelings. I'm very much afraid I'll not be ''able to make the reunion, much as I'd love to meet the fellows and join in what is bound to be an enjoyable occasion. Please tender my very best regards to all of them, and when you have a moment, drop me a line and bring me up to date on your activities." Matt*s ad­dress is: Shoreham Hotel, 666 Carondelet,. Los .\ngcles, California. 
Bob Kcadall writes: "Your reunion note and list of those planning to attend the reunion makes my mouth water. I had made tentative plans to get back there because I haven't been on the campus since graduation. I have been through South Bend, over South Bend and all anmnd, but never slipped at the University althou^ I have maintained constant contact for the last twenty years through being president of the local organization and chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation Ctmunittee. If events shcmld de%'elop 
2S 
at the last minute that I can get away, I will grab a plane and be on my way. In the mean­time, give my best regards to Jack Saunders, John Bums, Richy Barber, Tex Brieger; and by all means tell Jack Holland that I am again playing billiards, having taken up the game again in the past year. I would certainly relish some three-cushion with him. .. . It is with the deepest of regret, believe me, that this letter of no-attendance is being written." 
.\ustin Boyle is now publishing a newspaper in his home town of Whiting, Indiana. 
Bob Gore extends his regrets at being unable 
•o make the reunion and sends good wishes and 
greetings to the '3Iers. The Fort Lauderdale 
Club welcomes any Notre Dame men visitmg lO 
that vicinity. 
Bill Sullii'an is in Sara-wta, Florida, with the 
Modem Builders Supply, Inc., and regrets his 
inability to be present at the reunion. 
Dan Halpin telephoned a few days before the 
reunion saying he had to return to X. Y. 
John Donchcl wires: '-Momentarily expected ad­dition to family prevents attendance at Reunion. Perhaps I am loo youthful for group anyhow. For\%arxling pictures of wife and children and financial statement for use in bull sessions, re­gards." 
The Reunion was a huge success as everyone present will verify. Some suggestions were offered for the 25-vear reunion whicli will be followed up. As class secreurj-, I «ant '" maintain an interesting and newsy 1931 column and ask the regular cooperation of class members in sending letters on their activities. Please send mail to 6457 X. Bell Avenue, Chicago 43, Illinois. 
From Emil L. TeUel: "Just to keep the record straight—here's my new address: 2II7 Ohio Street, Lawrence, Kansas. 
"There isn't much news about me. I am an associate professor in the William Allen White School of Journalism and Public Information. Rinehart and Co. will publish my editing work­book, "A Day on the Copydesk." in Januan'. 1932. I have a good-looking wife, a pedigreed Siamese cat, and a new car. 
"Because Kansas seems to be rather sparsely populated by Xotrc Dame alumni, I haven't seen an alumnus since I left Xew Orleans in 1946. I did see Notre Dame beat Kansas in baslelball two years ago—or was it three?—and I had a cliancc then to talk to Moose Krause and Dr. Nigra of Kansa>i City. 
"What is the matter with the class of I93I? I haven't seen more than a dozen lines of news about the class in the past three or four .\lumni Magazines. 
"I will most likely attend the twenty-year class ^.*union and have so notified Gil Seaman ... " 
Max Conrad, famous flier, recently made a non-stop light plane flight from Winona, Minne­soU, to Mexico City. A former XD and Los Angeles A. C. track ace. Max is the only man i»ho ever flew a Piper across the Atlantic both ways. He holds the Los Angelcs-Xew York non­stop record for light planes. 
John E. McInt)Te will lead the South Bend big firms division in the fall campaign of the United Fund of St. Joseph County. The division is composed of 29 companies whicli employ 200 or more and has the responsibility of arranging for United Fund soliciting campaigns covering employee and corporation participalion. 
John is vice-president and general manager of the Sibley Machine and Foundry Corporation and has been active in many fund raising activities in this area. He led the industry division of the South Bend Community Chest cnmpaign in 1948 
John served as president of the Y.M.C.A. in 194tt and was a member of the South Beno '^-nmmunity Chest board of directors for cnree vcars. He is now on the bo^rd of Afemorial hospital and South Bend Rotary Club. 
Carl Gacnsclca writes: *'l certainly would like very much to attend the 20th Reunion this year, but it looks as though I'll have to forego the pleasure for this time. There aren't too many Xotrc Dame men around these parts, but I Iiave 
seen a few fellows from 
time to time. Ran into Bud Gies, '31, in Kalispe 
•JJ, Montana, a couple of years ago. Mike and 
Francis Xeitzel live in Boise, and I sec them quite often. AI:o Tom Jones ^ and Jesse Hawley are quite prominent in. Boise law circles. Several years ago I used to sec Joe Duimc quite often in £1 Paso, Texas, but I do not know his whereabouts at present. I have been with the Bureau of Reclamation since 1937 and have been located in many of the Western States: El Paso, Texas, Denver, Colo., Pueblo, Colo., Amarillo and Dalhart, Texas, Torrington, Wyoming and Boise, Idaho, with short hauls to various places in other western states. Regards to all the '31 gang and to all of the Windy City bunch." 
Joe Wilk is now Superintendent of Schools for the Mt. Greylock School Union of Western Mas­sachusetts. "1 am building a ranch style home in Cheshire, Mass. Hope to have members of the Class of 1931 drop in on mc sometime." Best wishes to all from Joe. 
The eminent and venerable "Judge" Telfd writes: "Greetings from your old classmate Judge Telfcl. The Chicago Committee's letter about the reunion has been kicking around so it's about time I took some action on it. I am going to try 
WALTER F. RAUBER 
Effective this month, W. F. Rauber, '23j became special representative in the large apparatus division of Gen­eral Electric. He will be stationed in Washington, D. C. 

W. F. graduated from the Univer­sity in 1923 in Electrical Engineering and went with GE the same year, entering their Test Course. The fol­lowing year he became associated with the switchboard department and in 1928 was named switchgear specialist in the Cincinnati and Cleveland of­fices. 
Eight years later he went to Phila­delphia as a proposal engineer and in 1940 was placed in charge of outdoor breaker sales. 
He was appointed assistant man­ager of the Sales Division in 1948 and manager of sales the following year. 
to make the reunion. I have Just about made up my mind to pack my wife into my new I95I Ford Victoria, put my Siamese cat in charge of the veterinary—and at six bits a day (or board' and room—take off for South Bend. It has been many years since I sau- any of my classmates and have seen no Notre Dame men since leaving New Orleans in 1946. There isn't much news about me—I liave a wife, very beautiful, a car, a Siamese cat and a job as associate professor of journalism in the William Allen White School of Journalism and Public Information. I have u-ritten a book which will be published in the spring of 1952 by Rinehart and Co. Before going into teaching I worked on newspapers in Texas, New* Jersey, Wisconsin. Iowa, Illinois and New Orleans. IVc also been news editor of a radio station and have done public relations work. Tve^ been in the scr\*ice, too, but not for long.*' 
Bob Ncydon made the reunion and had a 
grand time. His letter of May 4 has some infor­
mation for those he dtdn*t get a chance to sec 
or talk to. Bob's last visit was the 1941 reunion, 
about a year before he got married. He now-
has three boys and two girls. Congratulations, 
Robert. His company moved out of Detroit some 
two years a^o and is located in Sturgis. Micliigan, 
which i$ about 50 miles from the N D Camp'is. 
Hc is a gentleman farmer living on a 120-acre 
farm about four miles from town. He is Gcn-ral 
Safes Manager of the Marvel Industries, Inc. 
Please let us know what games you are attending 
this fall. Bob, so wc can plan to pay you a visit. 
Gil Perry made the reunion and looked just like the day he left XD. He sent some info for class notes which did not make our earlier letter. Byron Kearney of Kingston, Pa., is an official of the D.P.A. He never middle-aisled it. but then, he hasn't thrown in the towel either. Edward Barney is a coal operator working out of hi« New York office. Morrie Regan is happily married and has two linemen already enrolled in the class of 1957. Gil is married and has two enrollecs for St. Mar>'*s. He is Super\'ising' Principal of the West Wyoming, Pa., Public Schools and in addition opened an appliance store five years ago. 
Bud Geis hoped to make the reunion, but his plans went awry. He is Union Business Repre­sentative of the General Drivers and Helpers Local No. 593. Kalispcll. Montana. Bud is also Secrctarv ot the Central Labor Council at Huni?r>* Horse Dam. I sec Mike O'Connor occasionally, but he is the only XD man left around here. James B. OTI>Tin, an old-time Alumni recently died. Best regards to all the '3Icrs. 
Bill Ginder is with Eneincerin" and Min'n»r Journal and Coal Aerc. McGraw-Hill publications m Market Research Manager and Sales Promoti'^n Manaeer- He sees AI Gall occasionally ^vho rcpre­scntc the Reinhold Publishing Company. 
Maurice A. Goode\-e from Calgary. Alberta. Canada, resnonded to our letter and sent his re­grets at beini; unable to make the reunion and a hello to all his classmates. 

There were ouitc a fc^v fellows who had hoped to make the Rcnnion but could not get there. It would be a big help for future '31 news if voH would send in letters about your activities, family news. ND contacts, etc. So bov^. Frt busy and help votir n^w class secretary' give the '31 column its full share of Alumnus space. 
For the information of those who attended the Reunion Dinner and were later hit for an addi­tional collection. I did not buy a new white wall t'rc to reolace one torn the morning of Jun** 8. Wf» sold n o tickets at $5 each for a net of $550. The Indiana Club chareed us for our minimum guaranty based on indications received un to June 4. with the result that our choree for dinner anoctueis and tip amoun ted to $482.63. .Ar^Hj­tinnal refreshments were procured for the F?rl-y Hal! Rec room through Jerry Crowley at the In­dian*: Club. At the hall I took up an additional contribution to take care of ice, soda and ginger ale. tins to students working in the rec mom. etc. The net result in the absence of a detailed statement of receipts and expenditures is that I have $6.T left which will be used for Masses for deceased members of the class of I93I. 
I think w'e all owe Frank Holland a vote of thanks for handling the sale of tickets at the Indiana Club. With all the noise I wonder how he was able to keep a straight record. Frank is now liring in a new Ranch home in Skokic. He 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

and his wife have two adopted and one foster 
child in their home. 
I ran into Bernard Shaf in the Field Building lasc month. He is ^vith W. A. Alexander & Co., Insurance and has a family in LemontT Illinois. His ND buddy, Norbcrt Starshak, is living in Mt. Prospect. Joe Blaney is now located in Chicago and lives on the North Side. Vem Knox and Jim Rich were hitting them long and hard at the Notre Dame Club golf tournament at Mc-Hcnr>' County Country Club last month. A little birdie told mc that Tom Kassis was in Chicago June II or 12, but couldn't get away early enough to make the Reunion. Bob Cun* mngfaam j'ust called on the phone to say he returned from Florida. He did not see any ND men there and may return in the near future. He is quite an expert in his Cadillac wheel chair. 
Jim McQuatd writes. It was certainly grand to see you and all the fellows of the class of '31 back at school this past weekend. Marie and T both enjoyed it very much. With you at the helm as secretary I feel sure the coming 25th Reunion will be a wonderful one to look for­ward to attending. Sorr>' I didn't get over for the picture on Sunday, but we were anxious to start home and then we were stopping in Pl>Tn­outh to have dinner with Jerry and Dorothy Ball, so we left South Bend about 11:30." 
Deon Sutton writes: "Thanks to you and the others of the Chicago Committee, we of '31 had a good reunion. Not a great one, but good. I feci it would be excellent to publish a mimeo­graphed list of our class with name, home ad­dress, business address and type of business. Ex­pressions on this from other men will be appre­ciated. If you know anyone who wants to buy, build or sell anything in France (except wines and maids) wc can probably help them. 
*Ut seems like Ed Shceran and Morris Leahy should share the prize for the longest distance traveled. Ed had his wife and two beautiful little girls with him on a tour of the coun r>'. After leading school Ed drove to New York, but his trip was cut short by a sudden and serious illness of his father. Ed ficu' home leaving hh wife to drive, and according to latest word, his father is on the way to recovcr>-." 
With the publication of this letter and the previous one the 1931 column will be quite sizaole. Its continued interest and success is en­tirely dependent on the coopcraxion ot you who enjoy it. Please start the letters coming for the next issue. 
DEATH Thaddeus C. Goraczewski, August 23, in South Bend. 
1932 
Jim Collins, Secretary 
17 Triangle Avenue 
Dayton 9, Ohio 
Jim Bosco has moved back to Dayton after being avvay for about 10 years. He is district manager for Bunte candies, married and has three children. His present address Is 426 Rock-cliff Circle, Dayton. 
Al Culver writes that the football situation is one which can furnish a great comeback, a rarity on the campus. He says that spring prac­tice was so under wraps this year that a paid up membership in the Monogram Club would not even get him past the rolled down canvas. 
He said further, "Well, there is a first time for evcr>-thing but if the head animal trainer does not come up with a good act next fall, the ticket situation will be relieved considerably. 
"The Spring game did not compare to last year's as I suspect the Old Timers had their contracts with the Pros sewed -up and did not have to show them anything. The present team looks promising but with the boys going off to the Ser\-ices on short notice the question mark sign must be left up." 
The only sad note in his letter was the fact that Al's mother died on March 1 of this year, and he asks that she be remembered in our prayers. 
Among recent changes of address are Jack Gcddes to 6021 4th Ave. South, Minneapolis; Gabe Moran to 41 Pinehurst Drive, Youngstown; Bill Otto to 912 Westmoreland. Ave., Falls Church, Va.; Tex Simmons to 5343 Wateka, Dallas; Dr. Paul Smith to 805 22nd St. NE., Canton, Ohio, and Alex Wilson, back at the University as head track coach, to 129 Coquillard Drive, South Bend. 
Herb Giorgio, class president, has asked CKfT Prodehl to take charge of the arrangements for the Twenty Year reunion of the class next spring. They arc working on the details, and expect to have the district vice-presidents contact each member of the class in their respective districts shortly. 
James M. Carmody has been appointed mana­ger of a small branch office of the General Finance Corporation of Chicago, 
Raymond L. Pfeiffer is a vice-president and on the board of directors of Yellowstone, Inc., Louisville. 
Joseph F. ^Villis has received an LL.B. degree from St. John's University in Brooklyn, New York. 
Joseph Pctritz is the new general manager of National Publicity, Inc., with offices in Chicago. . 
SYMPATHY To Tarn Blagce on the death of hb father, William J. Magee, who died June 17, in Phila­delphia, Pa., after an illness of several years. Tom, now a resident of. Portland, Oregon, flew home for his father's funeral. 
To Joha L. Malioll on the death of his fatho-, 
J. P. Mulhall, May 23, Sioux City, Iowa. 
1933 
Joacph O. A. McCabe, Rosury Ckilkge. River Forest, nfinois 
Bear '33's: Take a deep breath, men, and don't go into shock when I pau the word along that this column received another letter. From a guy who must be one of the nation's busiest men Tigke Woods, former Federal Housing Expediter and now Director of Rent Stabilization. Even if you are a landlord, you must admit Tighe has plenty to do, whether he's doing it for or agin you—yet he took time out to remember this little establishment (which he used to run, by the way.) 
^That's the kind of class.consciousness we like, kids . . . let's see more of it You are too busy to write?—you only have to PAY rent, not stabilize it! 
Here's Tighe's contribution: "Dear Joe: 
nl'—il^" ' ^"""^ whether you remember Jim Donnelly but he is a member of the class of 
33 and, if my knowledge of Texas is current, he IS operatmg in a very tough and rocky vmeyard. 
"Jim wrote to me in connecu'on with some information of cooperative housing for Mexican laborers m an area in which he has his parish I am enclosing his letter. A reprint of it in our class column might bring him a check or two, I can't think of a better way to spend poker »inm'ngs. (Somebody WINS?) 
"I haven't been in Chicago lately as the new stabilizaUon which has just passed the Congress has kept me pretty busy. 
"I haven't heard how you're doing on the family side but you might be interested to know that we recently adopted a litUe boy here in Washington and he has already taken over the complete command of the Woods' household. 
"Best regards to Ann and to all of the Chi­cago gang." 
Before giving you Father Jim Douelly's letter, I'd like to pay tribute to Tighe and'Lucy for their adoption of a child to add to their family— and to all who take a foundling umler the wing. I don't know if I'd have the guts or the faith to do it, but I am sure God rewards greatly those who do. It is truly doing His work. 
The Woods have other children, but it's amaz­ing how many childless couples who have resorted to adoption in the belief that the stork was a Billingsley fantasy, have suddenly found them­selves with one or more of their own. ­
Now for the letter from Father Donnelly, for­warded by Woods: 
St. William Vocational School, Round Rock, Texas Dear Tighe: 
"Thanks for the letter with all the necessary information. I have written the man you men­tion. What have I been doing these past several years? Guess it can be summed up in one word —begging. I skipped you because I didn't want to distract yon for an instant fran the very weighty problems with which you are faced each day. You've done a good job, Tighe. I'm proud of you and happy to be your friend. 
"I have three Masses every Sunday, none of 
' which, strange to say, is said in Round Rock. start with 7:30 Mass in Georgetown and then go 23 miles to Andice for 9:30 Mass. 
'*I then travel 17 more miles to Leander for U o'clock Mass. These' churches are named St. . Helen, St. Rose of liina, and St. Margaret 
Mary. Confesuons are before each Mass with 
Alumni Director William Jones (fourth from right) in an informal visit to one of the '31 Baptisms and miscellaneous blessings after Mass. ~ reunion tables at the June festivities. Mr. Jones' gesture is unintentionaL "These Masses give me a wonderful opportunity 
September-October, 1951 
to pray more frequently for my friends and benefactors. The \YK:ational scliool in Round Rock started last October. It has gro^vn faster than I had planned. 
**I am now tr^'ing to make the fioor space more than double—we already have a 60x30 building. I get up at 4:30 each Saturday morn­ing, borrow or rent a big semi-trailer truck and wake up half a dozen Mexican men to help me and wc get from 13 to 15 tons of stone. I usually have to leave them before they finish because I have Mass at eight. 
*'U*e arc also getting the lime for nothing and the cement quite reasonable, but the aluminum roofiag and the plumbing costs scare me. It took more than 50 sticks of dy-namitc to blast a bole and trench for the septic tank sys-tem. but wc are %v'orking on it. 
*'Msgr. Primeau of Our Lady of Grace Church in Chic^o is letting me beg in his church late this summer but even with that estimated (or hoped for) $1,500, I think we arc going to be $1,000 short by the first of September. 
"If only some of my old polccr pals would take a nickel out of every pot for me, this would help considerably. 
*'Wcll. enough of me—God bless you, Tighe, and Luc>*. and slip in a prayer once in a while for me as I do for you.'* 
There's as moWng an appeal as I've seen in some time. Those of you who knew Jim—and those who didn't—will surely tr>' to squeeze more than a nickel a pot out of the kitty to help him in his great but terribly demanding work. 
Hrw many »verc there in our class, an>-\vay— more than 400? I'm not tr>*ing to take up the census, because I could get the figure quickly with a little research. But let's say 400—and then think how many varying tales of triumph, and sacrifice, and suffering that number s>'m­bolizes. 400 gux-s .. . in 1933 most of us had hair, and vigor, and hope; and for some the hope has materialized, and for others it's drawn a blank. 
I think the successful ones are sensible enough to attribute their fortune to God—and certainly the sufferers keep the upper lip stiff—no tears in the beer. 
But it ought to be the number 1 class project to pray for each other, and to do what ^ve can to help those whose chosen career it is to beg. like Father Jim Donnelly, for the have-nots of this earth. 
Father Jim is a CS.C. as is Father £d Bauer, another classmate missionary' whom some of us have tried to help from time to time. 
Father Ed*5 at Holy Family Church in .Austin, Texas. The financial demands of these times grow heavier alu-ays, and it may be that you can't contribute money. If not, I know these good priests would join me in saying—pray for us. 
So let's form a spiritual as well as 'old school' tie—and remember our classmates in our Avcs. Best regards, Joe McCabe 
Emmet J. Murphyj former general alumni sec­retary of Cornel] University, is no^v assistant to the president of the College of St. Thomas at St. Paul. 
1934 
EdH-ard F. Afonsfield, 6575 N. GienH-ood, Apt. 1, Chicago, in. 
NATIONWIDE INVENTORY TREND REVERSED BY ND CLASS OF THIRTY-FOUR 
CHICAGO—(YNS)—While most U. S. handlers of hard and soft goods furro^ved brows over excess stock, the secretary* of ND's '34 class told Your New* Service here today that class news inventory* dipped to the lowest level since 1949. 

*'Our supply normally indudef both hard and soft goods—hard to secure, soft for our cus:omers to get—, but delivery of this month's sliipment to ND's presses leaves our bins bare." Tliis was the discouraging statement to YNS by Ed Mans­field at his empty headquarters at 6575 North Glenwood. 
"Without a flood of domestic and imported material from new. and old sources by September, wc*ll be out of business for October," ivorried Mansfield confided. 
.\.\RDVARK to ZEBR.A There's the cold-print story, O scattered cus­tomers. ^Vcrcn't you let down a bit to flip to the '34 
Motion last issue and see those few lines (and those courtesy of John Bums of the city desk)? Here are the shipments in for this edition. Wc have a few old names, a few new—and *ve need more of both. Following the .A-to-Z pattern, wc start with Bill Beckley, another *34 man you'll see at the Carolina game. In applying for here from Texas last October. \Ve have rejux'cn­
tickels at SD, he wrote: "I am now a Georgia 'cracker,* having moved atcd the local ND club. Tlicre arc sc*"cral '34 men here: Mike WcidI, Pat Carroll, Bill Schroe­der, and myself (insert: believe Bill S is *35— cfm], and about 20 from other classes. When is ND going to play Georgia Tech? "Al Abranu, '25, inWted all local ND men to his country club for golf and dinner for about 20, including HarT>- Mehre and Harr\* Wright, new Georgia assistant coach."—Bill Beckley, 3249 Wood Valley Rd., SW., Atlanta. As you prowl Peachtree, pick up more news for us from Dixie, Bill; wc need it. 
FRANCISa^NS AND FOOT PADS The Rev. Sebastian Egan (Jack), OFM, and his fellovv* Franciscans figured in two unrelated stories in the Denver press thb summer: I) Father Sebastian gave the retreat for the annual Catholic l^>~%vomen's Retreat Association at Lor­ctto Heights College; 2) leisurely burglars ar­ranged their ou-n retreat from St. Elizabeth's monaster^' after a casual ice-box raid, much premise prowling, and no awakening of Fran­ciscans. Sorin was never so quiet! Next in line alphabetically is Barrister (not Barr>-) Fitzgerald of 488 Madison .\ve., NY. Hugh F. wrote fulsomcly: **I am inspired to write by your, recent class notes—what an outpouring of nc»rs. (He ain't talkin' about LAST issue, hearties!) If you and your correspondents c:an put that much into it. I guess I can drop the evening paper long enough to write. LIAR OF THE YEAR "Besides, I owe it to BurdielL Many month's ago, he M.\DE me promise to write to CahHI (Honestly, Harrj-, I did start the le'.ter to Bob, but never finished it). This, then, is the letter to Cahill, sent to Mansfield as a short-cut to press so Burchell won't have me up as 'Liar of the Year.' ''Enjoyed Don Bricc's letter ver>* mucli. I saw Don a year ago at a reunion of our Brook­lyn Prep class. Also there were Afasterson, Burchell, and Tom Dalton—and perhaps others Vhosc names escape me. "In December, Mary Jane, and I .attended the NY-ND Club Communion breakfast at the Biltmorc with Bill Huisking and his wife and Lou Grosso and his ^vife. Tom Dalton was also there, looking his usual bright and cheerful self (aside to the audience: Hugh's news about Tom is really good news, after his long post-Na\y hospital siege). 
THE CHRISTOPHERS "Fatiier Keller of Christopher fame was inspir­ing as alwaj-s. Getting his message to the larg­est possible number in the shortest possible time is a job for all of us. Christopher headquarters at 18 E. 48th Street, KYC, will send anyone handy addressed, stamped postcards explaining what it is all about. -1 try to have at least one in my pocket •wherever I go to hand to any likely prospect and make him promise to read it and send in the card. 

"Speaking of the Huiskings, I see Bill and hear about the others. Charlie is living in Bradenton, Florida, and no doubt soaking up more than his share of that wonderful sunshine. I married a girl from Haines City, Florida, and I ought to know} Ed and Dick are still in busi­ness in NY, and Ii\-ing in Huntington, L. I. 
HE CERTAINLY SHOULD! 

"Also sec Jim Re%iIIe frequently, when he's not on the west coast tending to the woolen business. Jim has four daughters, lives in Pelham Manor. He should have lots of interesting news about ND classmates such as Dr. Bill ShdIs and others. UTiy not needle him into ^vTiting, or dictating on his Time-Master? 
*'Say, why doesn't Brice loosen up and provide all of us with th«Me gadgets? Burchell should figure out a way of shaming him into it! 
"I was interested to see the note about John Wallac* and would like to know more about what he's been doing these many years. 
*'It's grand to hear about Gene Blish and the others. Let's keep it up! Makes one chafe at the bit in anticipation of 1954."—Hugh Fitzgerald. 
VOLLEY AGAIN 
When we thanked Hugh for that fine report, he volleyed with • this immejutly Wa postcard: "The firm is the same: Coudert Brothers, inter­national la^^yers. Did you know that 'Chick* Maira is one of the up and coming attorneys with the Legal Aid Society- in NY—oldest and most respected of all the aid societies? Keep up the fine work: alwa>-s get a kick out of hearing from you."—Hugh F* 
OK, CHIEF Here's one, a first-time letter, from a man good to know when it's four minutes to kick-off and you're bulldozing toward Angela boulevard. As you drive up and over that Nash in front of you, just yell "Dick said it's okay!" Dick is Rii^anl J. Gilfcn, assistant police crhicf. South Bend—but please don't misuse the name of a fine guy ^»Iio irill take time to write and say: 
"Your letter came to my attention, and hanng read the recent Alumnus, particularly the '34 notes under separate cover, I recognized your name and realized the importance of your visit to our fair city. What you were doing in the particular area is another question; shouldn't that be off limits? 
"Being a member of the class of '54-, I was prompted to handle this matter myself rather than see it become ensnarlcd in regular channels. Last week, I happened to run into Bob Cahill and we were talking of your recent voluminous '34 report."—Richard J. Gitlen, assistant chief of police. 
Hagan u next, and from Mrs. Gene Blish in Denver wc learn that John R. Hagan, the Voungstown sfeeler (no "a," please), is now living in Utali. No chat with Jack since his last hook-slide into Chicago, on the way home. You have news now, sir; write! 
And that goes for Mrs, Blish's husband, one­time great news source clammed up of late. Afust see our clan in his travels for Doran Nut Sales of Denver, too. 
TOBIN TELLS ON HOBAN 
Here's a name too-long unlisted: John Hoban. A former Na\y associate of his, Joe Tobin, ex-Santa Clara and radio publicist, told us at Crown Zellcrbach's Denver ofiice that John is a lau-yer, married, and is reachable at the Spivey building. East St. Louis. He added the data that John was Lt. Comdr. Hoban of LCT's with the 7th amphib force, and that Tobin would like to hear from Hoban (Boston building in Denver, John). 
Can you imagine T^VO men writing a combined FIVE-WORD letter? With their annual ship­ment of gelt for tickets to Count-the-House Cahill, Frank Linton and Harry Burchell told tlieir story tfaisaway: 
"We are well and happy. Frank and Harr>-." 
REVEREND PRESIDENT 

The Re^'erend and Class President James Mos­cow writes from his Lewis Afemorial Hospital office in Chicago: 
"Time for my annual greetings (this message, loo, reached us through the ND ticket office, bless them). 
"You seem to be feeling chipper, and coura­geous, too, judging from the tone of your ticket-• rationing letter. Incidentally, it was well done and, what is most important, quite convincing. It's a thrill to sec ND doing so well."—(Re*») , Jim Moscow. 
The sturdy Oakes pushed the lumber and fuel t oil business aside for a few moments in Clinton. I Iowa, and again we are indebted to ticket head-^ quarters for Jus relayed news from Tom Ookesr I 
"Dad just called me and said it was time we were thinking about tickets for lowa-ND this fall—kind of a family affair for years since the • dim, dark past of 1934. Haven't seen any of our classmates since our reunion t%%*o years ago." —Tom Cakes. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

THEY BARREL IT? Ah, here's one you'll like, on Barreled Sun­light Paint Co. letterhead, from their Mr. Edvrard 
J. O'Brien, Jn: 
"Lo (that's Indian-Gaelic—cfm). these many months I've enjoyed the grand job you have been doing in reporting the activities of the lads, of '34, and I've often meant to contribute.. Like many others, I kept putting it off. 
'"My home, until. early 1946, had been in Pittsburgh, but after a short hitch in the Navy, I moved to Silver Spring, Md. I am factory representative for Barreled Sunlight Paint Co. for Washington, D. C . Virginia, and part of ^fa^'Iand. There are four small O'Briens—two girls, 8 and 13, and two boys, 2 and 11. 
HIS EXCELLENCY 

"Although I have been quite active, in the XD Club of Washington, I haven't seen too many of our classmates. Andy Auth of Auth Bros: (meat packing) is in the pink. Joe Regan is with RFC. Bill Murphy lives in .Arlington and attends our club affairs. I manage to sec John McKieman when I visit Providence. The lieutenant-governor is a bit more portly, considerably grayer, and seems to wear his responsibilities comfortably. 
"I surely hope you or any of the '34ers will get in touch with me in Washington."—Ed O'Brien, 
(By efm—One *34cr we know of who DIDN T gcC in touch with Ed or any other '34cr when he was in the Capitol is the Ass't Alumni Sec'y, one John Bums, who is forever beating efm over the head to get more and still more news out of the class.) 
The efm Pipeline and Li>tcning Ser\-ice—a copy­righted feature—tells that Burns and ^frs. Burns spent nearly a week in Arlington visiting Bill Murphy the early part of July and never dropped a postal card to '34 headquarters. Could be we can have an investigation? 
THE EDITOR COPS A PLEA Confronted with the evidence. Burns did admit he'd been there, seen Bill (who's in Naval Ord­nance, still a bachelor, tiie owner and proprietor of a cocker spaniel) but othcnvisc refused to testifv. HIGH WATER MARK The next O-apostrophc is O'Connor, John J., of Kansas City. Indirect intelligence is that the nut products firm beaded by John (and Brother Eddie of ND) was tlioroughly wetted down by the Kansas City flood disaster. A letter, Jolin? Or have Loretta do ii! Xext newsman is a favorite Pittsbursher of ours. John Pavlick, of 172 Grove Avenue, who 
revolutionized the ' Pittsburgh report below by not once wsing the letters s-m-o-fc-e. Pavdick lips: "Since San Juan. P. R., was liberty port for 
the destroyer-escort on whicli T took my annual two weeks* Navy training, I looked up Paul McManus and Kathleen. It was a treat to sec 
Paul for the first time since our graduation. 
CRNKOVIC THEATER 

*'EIcanor and: t and our two children. Bema­dette, 4/2, and Johnny, V/2, went to Rudy CmkoWc's to show movies of Rudy's niece and nephew. We also ran off movies of the 15-year reunion at ND, witJi good shots of Hugo laco­vetti. Bill, Rockenstein, Father Ed Seward, Jim Morrison, Harry Burchell, and Rudy CmkoWc." —John Pavlick. 
SOCIETY SECTION 

S is for society and SJiaheen. Eli Abraham Shahccn became a bridegroom at St. Joseph's church in Mishawaka reunion week-end, and we did a lousy job of reporting in failing to get the young lady's name. Maybe that will lead to a letter from Mr. S. 
V is for Voegde, and John Burns of the city desk reports that Joseph was in from Peoria for a look-sec at ND's changing campuscape. Ex­basketballer Joseph is with Caterpillar tractor in Peoria, had several years of coaching, including a stay in Fort Wayne and at Spalding of Peoria, was a sergeant in the ETO setting up athletic fields and basketball courts. 
Under W, there's no mail, but a report on Frank Widger in Denver from his father-in-law. Frank likes it there with the road materials 
September-October, 1951 
division of the Texas company, and has a fine family of Jean Miller Widger and two little widgets (Right, Frank?) Why don't you and Blish combine a five-word letter like Linton and Burchell? 
THANK YOU, NOTRE DAME This tongue-tied teller of '34 tales would be a 
•calloused fellow if he failed to thank Notre "Dame for . its hospitality at the first national meeting of class secretaries. 
Trustees, alumni board, club presidents have been meeting on the campus in late years, and this new move for secretaries should certainly strengthen class organization and improve news coverage. President R. Conroy Scoggins and 
. Vice-President William Sherry of the alumni board were particularly patient and helpful, ^nd , the shrewd guidance of Jim Armstrong and John Bums, and the hospitality and interest contrib­uted by Fathers Cavanaugh, Murphy, and Hcs­bui^h made all of us want to come back again. Gralias. 
FALL REUNION 

You've read the good news of appointed spots for ND men to gather at all away-games this fall. Tliat's a wonderful start, and will get better as it grows. From coast to coast, and into Carolina for the first time, these games will give you lonesome '34 people a long-delayed look ac classmates. Check the listing in the last —and possibly again in this—ALUMNUS. 
We hope to be at the Carolina game for the first Irish invasion of that lush land since Sir Walter O'Raleigh rammed a sail-bearing 15T on Carolina sands to meet the Croatan (or was it Serutan?) Indians. 
N D headquarters will be at the Washington Duke hotel in Durham,- 12 miles from historic Chapel Hill as the fruit-jar flies. 
» 

PROHIBITIO.V MEMORY Many southern alumni too-long away from ND men and games plan to make this one in Tar Heelia. Fine school, colorful setting, convenient to the east and south. Sec you there! WISHING WELL Wish the list who moved a few doors or a few states would sit on their packing cases and fill a postcard with the stor>- behind their moves: job changes, promotions, new homes, so on. (We KNO\V ^vhy Vince Fehlig moved; when his double-bunks for the little Fehligans grew to four levels, he HAD to move or raise the ceiling.) 
Gentlemen, without mail from you, this news report perishes. Please get us overstocked on letters immediately for next issue. 
Please overwork the mailman who ser\ices 6575 NORTH GLENWOOD, CHICAGO. 
DEPRESSION'S OVER! Y'all are frequently castigated by this para­grapher for your failure to write letters—but that 
Athletic Director Edward "Moose" Kiause (right) with Detroit Club President Jim Motshcall and Detroit Athletic Director "Dutch" Clark going over plans for a joint rally before the Oct. 3 game. 
chiding cannot apply to the way you - write checfc*. Perhaps you missed page 22 in tlie last Ahm­nus. Look it up. You've dooe wcU enoo ^ to be HRST in gifts to ND in ISSl's first half. LOOK: No. in class: 377. No. of contiibnton: 111.. Percentage of class contributing: 19.2% TOTAL. GIVEN: 19,849^. AVERAGE PER DONOR: 
588.73. . You are therefore foist in donor average anwg. the larger classes from *18 on, AND FIRST IN 
DOLLAR TOTAL FOR ALL CLASSES FOR THIS YEAR! 
Wonderful! Keep scoring in the second half, as a special tribute to the 24-faour job dcmc by Father Cavanaugh. The Testimonial Fund drive rods with his term . of office in June of '52, and three million dollar bills are needed for pressing campus requirements. 
You certainly deserve ND's thanks and yr. obcd. svt.'s congratulations. $88.73 • apiece! How. did you do it, O depression<scarrcd confreres? 
MARRIAGE Paid Joseph Hu^ a and Sara E. Swan, August 25, in Elmira, New York. 
1935 
FranUm C. Hocludter. SccRtary 
1327 Fauwood Road, 
Baltimore 12, Mainland 
Well ganir, it has been a while since we had a cotumn. As a matter of fact, the last deadline caught up with us right after we returned from the Class Secretaries' Conference on the campus, and it was impossible for us to pound out a story. 
So we are going to so way back to early spring this time and cover a letter from Fraak HiJahan and then bring you right up to date with a story on Dale FOlefs, which is dated in August. 
First, however, something about the Class Sec­
retaries' Conference is in order. Your scribe 
went to Notre Dame on June 7 and 8 for a two-
day session, called by the University. It was good 
to exchange ideas' with Class Secretaries from 
other years. One of the principal matters, we 
discussed was how to implement the gathering 
of news through our four Vice-Presidents. An­
other equally important subject was the matter •of class dues. Within the near future, you will be receiving a memorandum discussing both of these subjects. ' 
And so to the news. Early in July, we received a letter from Holalian regarding the Navy Game this fall. He had tucked away in the letter a query about his annual news sheet which bad not appeared in our column. We now ivant to extend our apologies. to news-hound Hola&an because we had temporarily misplaced his early spring letter. As a matter of fact, we combed every file in our drawer and found it at long last misfiled. So here goes from Holahan. If the football news seems old, do not mind it because it will just get you in the mood for this fall. Remember your scribe did not get this dope until spring of this year. 
"I haven't written you in a long time, but that is not because I have not thought of doing so. Today it occurred to me that I should make a report to you of our football trips last fall which enabled us to see many of the fellows from the class of '35. 
"We saw the Navy, North Carolina, and Tulane games. As I told Louise, it is too bad wo could not see all of the games for as you recall, Notre Dame won those three. 
"Before the North Carolina game we had _ a fine dinner at the home of Frank and Eloane Ryan in South Bend, and returned there for a couple of libations before going into Chicago nith Camilla CmTd who flew up for the game, and drove with us into Chicago. As usual, the Ryaos' hospitality could not be excelled. 
"While spending a few days in Galesburg, lUi-. nois, with my mother we had a good visit with Joka "RotBidy" Fogae who is operating a soft drink manufacturing plant there. We weire ad­vised that Toai GraTO, who is in Turkey with the Government, is about due to be married.. We had a short talk w^ith Ed Grakaa who has a prosperous insurance business in Galcsburg. (Tom—please confirm marriage!) 
"Going south, wc were the guests of Camille and Catbcrioe Gravd in Alexandria, Louisiana, for a few days, and thoroughly enjoyed our first taste of Southern hospitality in many years. CamiHr, as most of us knoiv, is doing famously with his law practice and family of seven fine children. Wc spent a few days in Xew Orleans, seeing the Tulane game at the Sugar Bo**!. 
"I guess my two boys, age 4 and 7, were the youngest fans at the game, and Louise had them properly outfitted in Xotre Dame sweaters, caps, pennants, etc. We had pleasant times with both Tom Da\id and Phil Jacobs In Xe^\- Orleans and at their homes in Alexandria. Tom is an en­gineer, and Phil is in the Insurance business, and both are prospering in sucli a manner that a Vankec wonders why he docs not move South. Wc were pleased to meet Tom's family and to sec Phil's once again. 
"While at 4hc Montelson Hotel in New Or­leans wc had a bull session wiili Ray Keating and Jack Lang, both of whom came from Hous­ton to sec the game. .\s you know. Ray is in accounting and Jack is with J. A. Walsh & Com­pany, Distributors. 3215 McKInncy Avenue. 
"We had hoped that Ned Rowan and Ray Broderick were going to make the trip south with us, but Xed uas au-aiting a call to active duty in the Navy which he has not yet re­ceived, and Ray could not make it for business reasons. I expect to see Ray in Philadelphia shortly­
"Wc also stopped for a most interesting tour of Natchez, Mississippi, and lunch with Pat Bums, '34- Pat is also in ihc insurance business." 
So now that we arc back, we hope, in the good faith of our HoIIiday^burg reporter, we can carr>' on with the mail pouch since June 6, which is the date of the letter wc recevied from Claude Tourck. 
Congratulations arc due Claude on the birth of Kathryn in May of this year. Wc give you Claude In toto. 
•'Having just finished reading the latest issue of Alumnus, and seeing that you arc In need of correspondents to help swell our column, I thought I might drop a line. 
"Believe ft or not, but I am one of those 'missing members,' who for the past ] 6 years has been putting off writing, always figuring to do It *tomorrow.* 
"After reading the last issue of the .Alumnus it suddenly occurred to me that time really docs fly, for here it is already one year since our g]oriotis reunion, and it sef:ms as though it were only yesterday. 
"Since last year I have been meaning to write to congratulate all of the members of our class who worked so hard to make our 15th reunion tlic colossal success it was. Certainly, all classes will have to strive to the utmost to outdo the '35ers. 
"It certainly was one of the most pleasant occurrences to have spent that weekend with all the members of our class, especially with those fellows whom I hadn't seen smce graduation, 
"I do want to let you know that Kay and I have just been blessed with our first daughter. Kathr>-n, bom May 14, J 951. This now gives us a grand family of two boys and one girl. Now we can be sure of representation at St. Mary's 37 well 35 our dear .Alma Mater. 
"I hope this letter has not been too much of a shock to you, Hocb, and I also hope it might be an inspiration to some other of our forgotten members to come to life and drop a h'ne. I for one will certainly strive to keep alive and in touch with you before another 16 yrars rolls around. 
"I want to say hello to all of our class and hope to hear from, or preferably see. as many as possible before 1955 when wc will again set a record for class reunions.'*' 
Close on ihc heels of the Riverside, Illinois, reporter just quoted, came a note from Racine, \>'i5consIn, on the letterhead of Ed Kilmurry. As you will see, Ed is back in uniform and wrote as fallows: 
'*Just a note to advise you that I have been called back into the Army. I am aow on my ^v•ay to Fort Bliss at El Paso, Texas, where I will 5cr\'c as First Lieutenant with the Jtidge .Advocate General's Corps. This fni'oN'ed closing my law office but I have hopes of opening it again upon my return from ser\*ice. * 
"The Milwaukee Journal did quite a nice write-up on our new home in Mihvaukec and I thought it might be of interest to you, particu­larly since Bob Albert, also of our class, was the builder. 
"My best regards to Mrs. Hochrciter. I hope that the frequent transfers that the Army is noted for will sometime bring mc to Washington or Bal­timore where wc can get together and exchange experiences since our last reunion.'* 
Ed put a p.s. on his June 7 letter having carried it with him all the way to £1 Paso and on June 15 wrote ^'Finally got down here! It is n real *hot spot,' in the most literal sense. I feel that I belong back along Lake Michigan. Wc had a fine drive down but I fear I'm a civilian at heart." 
Tlie Mihvaukec Journal article which Ed men­tioned in his letter appeared on AVednesday, .April 25, 1951. To say the Kilmurry home is gorgeous is to put it mildly. It has combined the artistic taste of Ed's wife, Irrne. who is an art instructor at Cardinal Stritch College, and Bob Albert, whose ovvn home wc reported to you about a year ago. 
Quoting from the Journal stor>-: "Her (Irene) new home is of advanced design—and the fabrics and ceramics she has made for it bear little re­semblance to the crocdicted doily and lace edged dresser scarf of the past. 
*'Ircnc, who specializes in wearing and ceramics, wo\'e fabric for the draperies and cushion covers; made all the potter>' objects such as bowls, ash trays, plant containers and beverage mugs, as well as some metal and uooden serving dishes; screen printed the place mats and napkins; even made roller blinds for the long windows, tiles /or the bathroom Hoar, stained glass for a clere­story window, two batik hangings, and some of the furniture. She now is busy finishing a ceramic plaque for the fireplace wall and weav­ing a yellow and red cover for the living room daybed." 
Wc could go on raving about the new Kil­murry house, but it would only make your mouths vvatcr as ours is as w-e write. 
Sure hope you can find it possible to drop in in Baltimore if you arc transferred to this territor>', Ed. 
Late in June, we received a letter from Class President, Bill R^-an. \Vc tried to have an execu­tive session while your scribe was in South Bend, but unfortunately could not get together. While most of the letter had to do with that subject. Bill did add a p.s. which we give you: 
"I almost forgot to tell >'ou the fed tidbits I learned about Dick Hyde while I was In Minneap­olis. He is presently working for the Shell Oil Company in their Real Estate Department. He for­merly did a lot of traveling for them in their Sales Department. He has one boy two years old and he mentioned that he and his wife expect another one on the scene In a few weeks. I called Bill Guimont but couldn't get him and the same thing happened when I called Bill Lord. However, Dick says the latter travels quite a bit and sells medical supplies for a pharmaceutical house." 
Just as wc were getting our material together for tills trip to press, wc received a very unusual letter, unusual because it came from a wife rather than a classmate. As you will read in a moment, we still have the adventurous heart pulsating in the class of '35. What Dale and Jean KUen have done restores one*s faith in the pioneer spirit of the modem-day .American. Here is what 
Jean wrote: 
''Since my husband never seems to get around to writing to you, I shall take it tipon myself to do so. 
".After his mother's death eight years ago. Dale and I returned to Pinckneyville from Lombard, Illinois, where he was teaching in the grade school. Wc made our home with Mr. Fillers and Dale went into partnership with his father in Pillcr*s Rexall Drug Store. 
"Mr. Fillers passed away in January of 1950 after a five-day illness and Dale has carried on the btuiness since then. However, in July (1951) we departed for a \acatIon In East Boothbay, Maine and as It turned out we purchased an 
I.G.A- grocery market and went to work! We 
have returned to Illinois to dispose of our business 
and in the next month will take up residence 
in Maine. 
"Wc herewith extend the welcome mat to any 
and all of our Notre Dame friends should they 
ever journey to that section. The village is lo­
cated 60 miles northeast of Portland on the coast 
and depends mainly on its commercial fishing 
and ship building. Wc have many friends there 
and wc are confident we and our two daughters 
Jean (II) and Nancy (7) will be happy In our 
new life. 
"Dale was sorry to have missed the reunion in 
June but his thoughts were indeed with the boys. 
"Our best regards to you and yours." 
The Fillers' address as of September will be just East, Boothbay, Maine- Here's luck to the Filler dan. It Is a pity more o{ us do not possess their rugged adventurous spirit. 
Let's keep the letters rolling, gang. Wilhout 
them, the well soon runs dry. Wc can't write 
a column without your help­
1937 
Frank J. RoUy, Secretarv 
7 Hawthorne Avenue 
Merrick. New York 
SYMPATHY To. Jf»bn J. Lccfaner, on the death of his mother, Mrs- Jacob B. Lcchncr. 
1938 
Chailcs M. Callahan, Secretary' 
Sports Publicity Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Jbiin A. Scott, republican nominee for mayor of South Bend, Indiana, has completed a course in City Government at the American University, Washington- John spent the summer at the Uni­versity's night school while serving on acllve duty with the marine corps. Scott was released from the marine corps August 17. 
A communication from Joseph C. Clilford, 
D.D-S., formerly of New Haven, Connecticut, in­
forms us that he has entered the Army Dental 
Corps and is stationed at Fort Belvolr, Virginia. 
Ed«vard Joseph Cronin received his doctor of 
philosophv degree from University of Minnesota 
July 26, I95I. 
1939 
Visux DeCours=y, Sccrctar>­
I9I7 Elizabeth 
Kansas City 2, Kansas 
Let's first apologize for taking so long to get information re Ed O'Connor's book (see Books) ­Took a week to find the letter in my home-made filing system. 
Am enclosing clippings which accompanied the letter so believe you should have no trouble rcriewing the book. 
As far as the flood here was concerned—don't think that there was anything special about my exploits other than being marooned in Sallna. Kansas, along with about a thousand other people for a couple of days. As far as I knou- none of the Notre Dame people along the path of the flood were particularly inconvenienced or suffered much damage. In Salina I am sure that Norb 5kdly*s house suffered water damage and there might have been others. The devastation from the normally quiet Kai>' river was unbelievable. Here in Kansas City almost 12,000 people lost their homes and belongings and still are living in makeshift quarters in schools, doubling up vrith relatives, etc, Kansas City, Kansas, was by far the most affected area and the damage will run in this one city upu-ards of five hundred million dollars. 
Joe Stete-art, (NOTE: I believe that his Is about 1927) chairman of the Jackson County, Mo., (Kansas City) Red Cross, performed brilliantly in the disaster and is now full speed ahead with rehabilitation ^*'ork—the major problem by far. Any menlloQ that is made of the flood should 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

certainly feature Joe. As you probably know, his son Joe, Jr., a student at ND, was killed in an auto accident this summer. 
Sorry to disappoint you in not having any talcs of heroic performance or breathtaking escapes as requested, but trust that the informa­tton on Ed O'Connor and Joe Stewart will serve. 
From Cbaries W. Ephgra«-e: 

".. . Since I am now a director of the Chicago Oil Men*s Club, I would like to acquaint you with the fact that a number of our members are Notre Dame men. Among them are our for­mer football coach. Elmer Layden, Paul Rice, '39. Bob Grogan, *37, Larry and Frank Sibr, and Tony Mazaotti ... " 
Arthur F. Anderson is in the U. S. Air Force stationed in Roswell, Xew Mexico. BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. Frederick W. Honerkarap, Jr., a son, Joseph, July 16, in Douglaston, 
L. I., N. Y. To Mr. and Mrs. John J. Miller, Jr., a daugh­ter, Mary Beth, July 25, in Chicago. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Ephgrave, a daughter, Mary Alice, July 25, in Chicago. . . 
1940 
Richard Burke, 146 Paxton Drive, South Bend, Ind. 

To Jim Armstrong: "As you may or may not know, I am on a leave of absence from the Commerce Faculty and back on active duty with the Xav>*- My official capacity is Officer in Charge—Branch Office Su­pervisory Cost Inspector, U.S.N., Dallas, Texas. Vm putting my cost accounting theories to prac­tical application inspecting costs claimed on gov­ernment contracts. Please change my address on your records to: 
John B. Morgan, Lt. USNR., 7806 Caillet St., Dallas, Texas. Thanks and sincere best wishes. John. 
BIRTH 

To Mr. and Mrs. Fred R. Stubbins, Jr., ; daughter, Amanda Deh'ght, July 29, in San Diego-California. 
1941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., Secretary 5530 Darlington Road I^ttsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Frank J. WemhofT has been appointed assistant managing director of the Construction League of Indianapolis and editor of the Construction News, the organization's publication. For the last two years, Frank has been account executive with Bozell and Jacobs advertising agency, Indianapolis. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Richard Kaczmarek, a daugh­ter, August 11, in South Bend. To Mr. and Mrs. J. Paul Scully, Jr., a son, Paul Gregor>', May 1, in Lewiston, Maine. 
SYMPATHY To John W, Carey on the death of his wife. 
DEATH John L. Maloney, August 16, in St. Bona­venture, N, Y. 
MARRIAGE Don C. Zappia and Mary LongBcId, July 21, in South Bend. 
1942 
^VUliam £. Scanlon, Secretary 400 E. Ulth St. Chicago 28, Illinois 
Robert Emmet Wright sends along the fol­lowing • news: ".. . Last January several men of the class of 1942 decided to establish a group or club of 
September-October, 1951 
their own to commemorate the fact that they were the 100th class to come from the Univer­sity. Fittingly enough they named their club the Century Club, elected Robert Emniet Wriglit as their chairman, and decided to embark on a program of Catholic Action. 
''Lest I forget, the initial group was 50 fel­lows of the class of 1942 from the Chicago area. The thought behind the group is to encompass all of the men of 1942 into the club In due course of time. 
The Century Club meets every month on the last Wednesday of the month. The first Catholic Action project that the group undertook was an outing for 50 underprivileged Negro boys from the Bishop Sheil House in Chicago. Our Notre Dame men picked the boys up in a bus and took them to the Lincoln Park Zoo for a day's outing. 
Each child was presented with a Notre Dame jersey after a hard fought ball game. A picnic lunch and tour of the zoo concluded the day*s activities. The 50 youngsters delighted the Notre Dame men w*ith their very accomplished rendition of the Victory March and other song selections. 
A list of the men participating in the activity follows: Don Hogan, Enunet Moran, Walter Mc* Court, Leo Lanigan, Jim Mf^ulty, Leo Lee, Chuck Carney, Tom Dillon, Bill Hickey, BUI Sturbitts, George XJhH, Tom Cromn, and Emmet Wright. Several other men of the class con­tributed monetarily to make the outing a success . . . ** 
Francis S. "Gabby" Gabreslu, the U. S.'s top-ranking ace in the European Theater during the last war, is the newly appointed commander of the U. S. Air Force's Fourth (Sabre jet) Fighter Interceptor Group. Now a colonel. Gabby is in Korea. 
Louis L. Anderson announces the removal of his offices for the general practice of law to 908 Tower Building, South Bend 1,, Indiana. 
BIRTHS To Afr. and Mrs. Neil J. McCarty, a son, Thomas Malachy, August 20, in Kaukauna, Wis­consin. Neil is practicing law in Kaukauna. To Mr. and Mrs. Robert Raaf, a daughter, Monica Ann, July 17, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. To Mr. and Mrs. Joseph C. Spohr, Jr., a son, Gregory Phillip, July 9, in Hawthorne, New Jersey. 
John Corrigan, who took a Master's with the '42 class has been named a research associate at Sharpe & Dohme, the pharmaceutical house. John, a 1940 graduate of Portland University, earned a Ph.D. in organic chemisiry from Notre Dame in 1949. 
1943 
Jack Wiggins, Secretary 11404 Ruplcy Lane Dallas 14, Texas 
During my vacation I saw a few of the Chi* cagoland classmates who had a few items to report. Bill Middendorf hit Chicago while I was there and said that prior to changing to Burroughs, he had seen the St. Loub boys, Leo Lewis, Bill Wamick, and Bill Murpby (Charlie's brother). When he hit Evansville he usually con­tacted Frande Hillenbrand and Stc\-e Ensoer. Bill said that he chanced to see Bob Kinney in South 
Denver Club President Bob Fljmn, '49 (right) with the Club's scholaiship wnmer Martin J. Kennehan. 
Kinaey ii trnftartd by a Pliil»»lrl||bi» Drug coacefB. la hit bnantowa of Fort Wayar he occasioaany ices lab Md Tarn fyMiStr, U Hock, DM MrTtniH. lob Skait, aad U Diwr (the cliJ> prendeat). 
Joe Cilhl M wrote fnrtber of bii placcaeat . with the GcaenI Moton Cocporatioa (Owmtaa Operatioas) ia New York City. Joe writes (Craaa 138 West 91st Stnct, Apt. 3-E. c/o Gray, New York Gty 24, New York): 
"So far my aew job's bcca aM>re tkaa iater­esting and 1 am bccouiag ia:lwr hopeful that I may be ass^e d overseas after the aext six wn«thf of indoctrioatioa here ia New York." Good lack on the new asugnmeat, Joe, and perhaps soaae of the "Metropob'taa" crowd of '43 wiU fcwk you up. 
Howard Marlow is still assodatcd with the Wisconsin Steel Divtsioa of Interaatioaal Har^ vester. He toM me that be had receatly seca Jerry Gaiacr who now works oat of his Whitiag, Indiana, insurance agency. 
Another insurance man, Fn d Gore, told me that he is still trying to maintain some of the class interest by contacting several of the class each Wednesday at noontime in Chicago retaiad­ing them that a group of the' class eats lundi at TofTenettTs Monroe Street Restanraat. 
From an old Army cronie and UCLA grad I have received word that Faal Ccdcrwall woriu in the. accounting department of the Los Angeles branch of the United States Fidelity ft (xiaraaty Company. Tcsry McCSoscsn, another Irisher, works for the same company. 
BIRTHS To Dr. and Mrs. John NenUe WaU . a daugh. ter, Deirdre Ana, in Housttm, Texas, where John is interning after receiving his MJ>. from Geargeto%vn in 1950. To Mr. and Mis. Oliver Banter 10 , a soa, Oliver Henry IV, March 29, in Erie, Penasyl. vania, where Ollie is acting as Resident Agent for the F.B.I. 
1944 
George Barisrillo, Secretary 515 Fifth Avenae Bradley Beach, New Jersey 
The postman rang not twice but thrice during the hot summer months as welcome news was recewed from three of the lads, all widely sepa­rated. Interesting to note that the pointi of the geographical triangle formed by their present whereabouts include New York City, San Fran­cisco and Mexico City, with probably more than 90 percent of us contained in the triangle formed by those ci'.ies. 
From California—J. FUBp Claike reporU in as follows: 
"Once a year I muster my strength for a note to the class secretary. You've my sympathy, George, in your inheritance, but 1 hope the fellows will lighten your task. (So do I, I%il!} My classmate contacts are not numerous, but perhaps I can inject a few fresh names iato the column. 
"Bod Knha, now living in Northbrook, lU., visited us last week. He's with a ymmg com­pany dealing in plastic buodings with Chicago headquarters, and had flown to the Coast on business. He looks fine, and is quite happy in his work. 
"Faal O'Oaadl (PbJ). in Chem.)_ has ter­minated his appointment at the University of Pittsburgh and will join the Research Division of Upjohn Co., Kalamazoo, this autumn. He's a recent father (second son). ­
"Fanl Marietta wed a hometown giri (Clinton, Ind.) on July 28. He's still with Prudential life. 
"I've heard nothing from tax YoUxrich for over a year. At last notice be was in San Diego or vicinity lending his M.D. talents to the Navy. 
"As for myself, I've just finished my second year of resickncy in Internal Medicine at the University of California Hospital. Still planning to practice in Denver, so I'm taking my third and final year of training there. For any of you gents who shfmld pass through. 111 be at St. Joseph's Hospital until September, '52. Doris aad I now have three youngsters (two boys and a girl), and the family is still growing!" 
The slogan department was pleased to receive 
31 
the following contribution from Phil Clarke: "Loolc fifty-*four*%-ard%" saN-s Phil, who can be reached at 1288 38th Ave., San Francisco 22. .As announced in last month's column, your secretary' is searching for a catch-all phrase to keep .the gang thinking forward towards '54 and our 10­ycar reunion. Suggestions gratefully accepted. 
From Mexico—Dick "Cactus" Lean and the Mrs. announce they arc now "three" Avith the arrix-al of Thomas Carlos on July 20- For the record, Thomas weighed in at 7'/2 lbs. (minus rompers, that is). **Cactus" can be contacted at Sinaloa 46, Mexico 7, D. F., Mexico. 
From New York—Bill Talbot sends along the 
following jottings: 
''Oriando Bomcelli and Geraldinc just had a 
baby boy, Donald. Benue O'Hara (Dr.) was 
married a month ago at XD. Bill Tully, of a 
later class, is ranked in the first ten in the 
eastern tennis rankings, and going great guns on 
clay and turf. Jimmy E\'ert ('45) played top 
tennis in the national pro tourney at Forest 
Hills, and was eliminated in the quarter-finals by 
no less than Frank Parker. I sec Dick Murphy 
('42) in the Stork Club occasionally. Met Dick 
A'Heam in the subway the other day; he just 
moved here from Minneapolis. ^Vorks with a law 
firm in the financial district." 
.And that about uraps it up for this trip. How's about a few more of you gents checking in with news and briefs about yourselves and other '44ers you've seen, heard from or about. Remember, just as you enjoy reading about what your ND mates are doing, they like hearing about YOU. The address is at the head of this column; write TODAY, or TONITE for sure! 
Robert AV. Galiin is executive vice-president of Motorola, Inc. ENG.AGEMENT Jane Frances Langhoff and Joseph A. Conertv, Jr. BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. Ridiard J. Hackman, a son. Richard J., Jr., July 9. in Clev-eland Heights. Ohio. 
To Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Gall, a son. John 
Daniel, July 13, in Hyaitsvillc. Mar>land. 
1945 
A] heaaext Seoctarv 61-56 82iid St. Elmhurst, NCH- York 
ANNOUNCING A CAMPAIGN: 
A new campaign is now officially started. There are many ex *45 men who are not presently officially listed as part of the class of '45. There are also many men who are listed in the "neigh­boring" classes, but who prefer to be officially of the '45 gang. The new campaign is directed tOH-ard getting as many as possible of these former classmates back in our circle. 
A few of the fellows who will soon be listed 
because either they, or close friends, have wTitten 
in to have them put on the list are: 
Sam Alonri,* Jim Kane,* Ted Cummings,* Jolm Harrigan,* Jim Dugan,* Tom Kennedy,* Jack Alef.* Cari Look,* Bill Rabbett,* Fred Hidcey.* 
•Address unknoi*-n—HELP.'.' 
It is good that we pick up these loose ends in our class roster. We: went through college during a hectic period. Ours is a potpourri class consisting of men who were forced to leave to enter the Services, men who were attending in the militar>- gaib of Marine, V-12, or NROTC —^and a small and almost extinct civilian group. That is why wc will have to work extra hard to rebuild our class, to gain unity. 
For any man who wants to be a member of the class of *45, the folloiring is quoted: *'I. Any alumnus (graduate or not) can be­long to any class he wants to. Therefore, 
**2. If you want to join, or be transferred to, the class of *45, merely drop Al Lesmcz a note. That's all that's necessary. 
*'The Alumni Office ordinarily classifies a man as belonging to the year in which he received his first Notre Dame degree (or, in the case of tho non-graduate, would have normally received It). But this routine is by no means rigid and it can readily be changed at ilic request of the indiWdual." 
In this. respect, and as an inducement to the many of our former campus-mates from whom 
we'd like to hear, the following typical letter 
is quoted: 
From Don Lundergan: 
•"At last the promised letter after talking to you on campus reunion week. Again I want to say \%-hat a stvell job I think you are doing in getting together the lost class of '45. Many of us who spent the first two or three years to­gether in '4I-*43 want to be considered in the class in which we %%*ere" to be graduated. Last year the class of '45 reunion brought only a relatively few to Notre Dame, but I know the 10-year reunion will be different. Please list me. as a member of the class of '45." 
So follow Don's lead, pick up your pen and drop me a word if you are one of those who wishes to be in the class of '45. .And if you know of anyone who was back at school with us anytime around 1942 to 1945, let us have his name, and we'll put him on the roster. We . 
want everyone in our class who wants to be in 
it, and who has a right to be in it. Let's make a real campaign of this. 
DID YOU KNOW . . . —that Henr\' B^xne O'Neill, AVIIOSC address has been one of the hardest to correct, is living in St. David's Park, St. Darid's, Pennsylvania . , . That Jim Cahill is a senior student at* ShurtlefT College in Alton, Illinois, and expects to gradu­ate in January* . . . that for four years he worked at the Owens Illinois Glass Company . . . that Jim and his wife, Betty, live at 709 Linden Place, .Alton, Illinois . . . that Cfeorge 
M. Ballas is the assistant Supt. of Schools on the Ann .Arbor Board of Education, in charge of business and finances .. . that Agnes and Leon LaRocque arc proud parents of 7-potmd, 11-ounce Ann Whitney (Sccretar>-'s comment: Congratulations, roommate. Best luck to you, to Agnes, and to little Ann) . . . that Elise and Paul W. Smith too are sporting a new ar­ri\'al: a baby boy, name unkno\^'n by this depart­ment as yet (Secretary's comment: Congratula* tions, roomie. It's swell to hear that you have a family) . . . that Jack Fallot is employed by the H. P. Schwan Company in Louis\-iIIe, Ken­tucky . . . that he's been back on campus twice for football games , . . that Jack is a mem­ber of the ND Club of Kentucky and has seen Ray Nolan, Jim Warren, Otto Melcto, Lee Michael, and Jim Hennessy at some of the mecS ings . . . that your secretary- just spent a won­derful weekend showing Fred "Godfrey" Bremer^ and his wonderful wife, Mar>* Ellen, a little of New York . . . that the Bremers just returned from a v'acation trip to Cuba, and are living in Hyattirillc, Virginia . . . that Fred is work­ing for a government agency in Washington, 
D. C. . . . that George Despot passed through New York on his way to a two-months \'acation in Europe . . . that he is ver>* happy in his law work in Shrevcport, Louisiana . . . that he got in touch with Ernie Rancher and made him show him some of the stores of New York before he sailed . . . that the more information you send in to this column, the more interesting h will be to read it .. . So sit down and write!! 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT: From Don Llmdergan (Continuation of the letter quoted above): "I was just talking to Tom Fole^- over in the Huddle. He is now basketball coach at St. Mary's in California. Abo, Dave Thorttm has come back to ND and is in Law School, as well as John Lynch. Tom Fry is in Portsmouth, Ohio, in the construction business. Cas Rcjent is In Sales in Dearborn, Michigan, and I guess you know he has Cas, the 3rd, who was a year old last month. 
"I have been fortunate in obtaining a position on the faculty at the University of Saint Ix>uis. So my ^v'ife and I, and our three sons: Mike. Tim, and Don are now located at Saint Louis Universitj', Parks College, East Saint houa, Illinois. 
"John Crecvy told me recently that Ocorge 
"Red" Ndson is' now located here in South Bend with the Army. 
"Since graduation I have seen some time on the staff of Admiral Nimitz on Guam, spent, some time with Liquid Carbonic Corp. in Chicago, and studied three more years at ND in the Ph>*sics Graduate School." 
From Jim Retter: 
• "The big news is that Florence and I nou­have a 7-pound 2-ouncc baby boy, bom June 8. As you know, such an event scr\'cs to keep both parents pretty busy, but I did want to drop you a note to let you know. 
"The American Chemical Society had its Na­tional meeting here in Cleveland a few months ago. I stopped la at the N D social and sau-Brothcr Columba, who has completed his work at California Institute of Technolog>* and is again back at ND teaching ph>'sical chemistry. Pro­fessor Campbdl organized the social hour, whicli was a very nice cocktail part>'. None of our classmates .were there except John Gonsidine and 
Jolm McDennott who were Chemistry instructors while we were 'slaves.* 
"Received a letter from Jack Collins, '44, an­nouncing the fact that he was go.Ing to get mar­ried in August. 
"Ran into Bill Bamett at Universal Notre Dainc Night. Jim Dugan and I represented the class of '45 and upheld their honor (Bamett wa^ a mettatorq grad student at ND and is now working at Case Institute In Cleveland). 
**Still looking forward to my \*acation whicli is scheduled for September—hope the heat doesn't melt us before then. Regards to all." 
From Chuck Sartore: "I'll bet you think I'm a heck of a friend for neglecting to write for such a long time. Really, though, I've got lots of good excuses. "Have you had your \-acatIon yet? I was off the last week In May and first week of June and drove to Miami with Alother, Dad, and one of my good friends. Had a real nice time. My friend and I flew over to Havana for a couple of days. We both were glad to have been there, but if you could have come along to in­terpret for us, it %%'ould have been more en­joyable. I thought I knew something about ^aoish, but when I wandered into the ladles' rest room, I changed my mind. 
"Hat« you heard anytliing from Vince Gushing? I haven't heard anything from him or Dave Cartwri^t since the reunion last year even though they promised to write and Dave said he would probably see me in Memphis the early part of this year. 
"Things are still pretty much the same around here. I'm with Harvester, and have to put in quite a bit of overtime since the steel situation is so rough. I'm In charge of ordering and dis­bursing all steel used in manufacturing at the Memphis works. 
**I*ve been having lots of fun on the week-ends this summer. Almost evcT>* Sunday 10 or 15 of us hop in the cars after early Mass and go to some lake (nearest one ts 65 miles) for a picnic and swimming. 
"Please try to write sooner than I did. Give my best to Betty and the folks. I ehjo\- your column in the Alumnus very, ^"cr^' much.'' 
From Father Michael J. Murphy, C.S.C., at Notre Dame: "Congratulations on the job you are doing and 
apologies for being so slow In answering you. "I have been studying Geology here on campus and prelecting in Morrissey Hall; received my 
B.S. in June to complement the A.B. of 1945. In September I begin graduate studies at tlic University of California in Berkeley. 
"Quite a few of our classmates are around the campus. Father Van Wolvlear is teaching at Holy Cross Seminary on campus. Father Dan Curtin, after getting his M.A. from Catholic University, is teaching religion and prefccting in Farley Hall. Father Stan Rdzok is an as>istant at St. Stanislaus Parish In South Bend. Father Bin O'Connor is an assistant at St. Patrick's Parish in Soutli Bend. Fathers McGrath and PdtoQ are studying in Rome. Father John Walsh is working for his doctorate in Education at Yale. Fathers Harry Bride and Gillespie are In India. Father Dclaney is in Santiago, Chile; Father £d Kadziclowski is in Sacred Heart Par­ish, New Orleans. Fathers Hmm, Donahue, and Bernard are studying at Catholic University. 
"Saw ScnatM- Bresnahan at the Pitt game last Fall. Sieve Hauser is now an Instructor In Great Books at ND. He is married and has one daughter. He received his M.S. in Math at June commencement on campus. Also sec T. P. 
The Notre Dame Alumniis 

Bcrgin occasionally; he is an instructor in the College of Commerce. 
"Another /45 grad I See when I am home in Butie, Montana, is Todd Doran. He got mar­ried two years ago and is an Electric Appliance salesman in Butte, I believe. 
"You are rapidly making the class of 1945 one of the most active. Keep up the good work and God's best.'* 
From Father Harold Bride, C.S.C., in Dacca, India: 
"Wish I could drop In for a chat, but work keeps mc too busy. I could write about a mil­lion things, but work and its call must come first. Xow I know why a missionary often seems to forget his friends until he needs help and needs it badly. But I assure you, you arc not for­
gotten, neither in my daily prayers nor at the Altar each morning. And I know you will forgive me if perhaps some friend has heard from me and you have not. It is because I knou­that I cannot write to everyone that I have turned ashamedly to the Mimeograph machine. The longer we arc here, the more we realize that the fruit of our work depends almost entirely on your prayers and sacrifices. Wc arc but tilling the soil—and sometimes it seems we are work­ing wilh toothpicks instead of plows—so will you pray every day for the har\'est for which we strive? And every day the barefooted people in the mission churches kneel after Mass and re­member, you as one of their benefactors to whom they owe the reception and keeping alive of their gift of faith. Sincerely." 
From Robert F. Larktn: 
"Have just finished reading the latest issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus. Your column really brought me up-to-date on the lads that I lost contact with in the past few years. 
"My object in writing is to inquire about the home address of Donald Lundergan,. whom you mentioned In your last report. Don once lived in Montclair and then migrated to Chicago. I had his address at one time, but then mislaid it. I would really appreciate having it because I plan to make a trip out to Notre Dame in Sep­tember and would like to pay him a visit. 
"A few* weeks ago Jim Horgan and Jim Kelly and yours truly got together to talk over old times. Horgan has just returned to the States with his French w-arbride. They arc residing in Worchester, Mass. As for Kelly, he is firing in Staten Island, and has a baby girl. Wc really had a great evening which went far into the morning batting the breeze about the good old days under the Home. I hear also that AII-American tackle Jim White, is no longer playing with the New York Giants, but is running a nitcry in Edgewatcr, N. J. G«orgc Rattennan, who has just bought a home in Englewood, N. J., jumped from the New York Yankees to the Canadian Pro Football League. The reason I am able to stay up on some of the Notre Dame Alumni athletes around Jersey is that I am con­nected with the Newark Evening Ncu-s. Regards to all." (Bob lives at 134 Grove Street, Mont­clair, Ncu* Jersey. Thanks for the letter. Bob. If you read the first letter of this column, you will get the information you want concerning Don Lundergan's address.) 
POWER POLITICS: 
Yours truly has been put in the tickli&h posi­tion of having to announce that the nominating committee believes almost unanimously that our class should have a Secretary-President, and has paid met the honor of having nominated only one person to the position. Without opposition, I enter now a "campaign" for election to hold that office until our class meets for its 10-year reunion in 1955. The nominating committee has chosen a slate from which each member of the class must elect a Treasurer, and a Vice-president fur each of the .regions: East, South, Mid-West and Far West. Within a week, each of you will receive a ballot. Please vote for the man you think h the best for each post, and mail the ballot back to the Alumnus office at Notre Dame. The complete ballot is as follows: 
Secretary-President, Al Lcsmcz. 
Treasurer, Raymond F. Baddour or Ernest 
W. Rattschtr. 
September-October, 1951 
Vice-president (Soutli), Farre J. "Tex" Peqnig­ney or Richard M. Sadowski. 
Vice-President (East), James V. DonacUy or John J. O'Rourke. 
Vice-President (Mid-West), Thomas P. Bersin or John C- Treacy. 
Vice-President (Far West), Richard J. Ames or Harold A. Berliner. 
Get behind your candidate and get out that all-important vote. Return your ballot just as soon as you receive it. See you again next issue. Wc may have the results by then. SMong till then. 
BIRTHS 

To Owen and Cynthia Doyle, a son, George William, Aug, 13, in Ann .^jbor, Mich. 
To Dr. and >frs. Frank Kelly, a daughter, Kathr>'n Ann, Aug. 6 in Houston. 
To Dr. and Mrs. Frank Kelly, a daughter, Karen Marie, Aug. 6 in Hous:on. 
(Comment by Lesmez—^That's no error! The doc (and his Mrs.) had twins.) 
1946 
Jack Tenge, Jr., Sccretar)­912 Lovett Blvd. Houston, Texas 
From John K. Stewart: 
"Effective September 1, I will be receiving my mail at the American Institute for Foreign Trade. P.O. Box 191, Phoenix, Arizona. 
"TIic years in the State Department in Latin America, Europe, and Africa have left an indelible mark on me. So, I am going to equip myself for a business career in foreign trade. I should have my Bachelor of Foreign Trade in May, 1952. 
"I would certainly appreciate hearing from some of my '46 contemporaries." 
. First Lieutenant Kenneth A. Rohyans is at Riverside Military Academy, Gaincsrille, Ga., where he is Assistant Professor of Military Science and Tactics at the school's Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps. 
1947 
Jack Miles has returned to South Bend from the Warm Springs, Ga,, infantile paralysis hos­pital. 
Jack has been a patient at the hospital since mid-March. He was stricken with polio in Sep­tember, 1949. At the time he was manager of the South Bend Tribune's bureau in Benton Harbor, Mich. 
Vince Boryla signed for his third season with the New York Knickerbockers. He led the Knicks last year with a 14,9-point average. 
Major Clinton D. Firestone has been selected to attend the Air Command and Staff School, itaxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery, Alabama, commencing in September. 
At the present time, he is assigned to the office of the Deputy for Materiel at ADC Head­qiiartcrs. 
Entering the service in 1941, Major Firestone spent 17 months overseas in the European Theatre of Operations during World War II. While on a combat mission as flight leader with the 96lh Bomb Group, his plane was shot down and he was interned by the Germans from April 1944 to June 1945. 
Included among his decorations are the Dis­tinguished Flying Cross, Air Medal with two Oak Leaf Clusters, Purple Heart, the Presidential Unit Citation, the American Defense Service ^fedaI, the American Campaign Medal with one star and the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with one star. 
Clinton is married to the former Miss Mary Bader of Akron, Ohio. They and their four children live at 31 Che>;enne Boute\-ard, Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
ENGAGEMENTS  ^.  
Doris  Mauntcl  and  AMtett.  VnakBm  MftKtmt,  
MARRIAGES  

Joanc» Malay and Tnacb E. MOOR, Jiiae 16, in I^rain, Ohio. 
BIRTHS 

To Mr. and Mrs. Loan C CoOcnw, a 6mat^ ter, Elizabeth Jeanne, July 20, In Votu^tcmrB, Ohio. 
1948 
Hcfana A. ZitI, Secraurjr 
DxTtoa Flndacts Co. 
Warn at Apple -Dajrtna, Ohio 
Jokaay Dca hai KtuiiMd to Notre Dame as as­sistant cage coacb. Johaay has been roarhiag football aiKl basketbaU at St. Mel's H« h n Chicago the last two years. A native Chic^ioka,.' he will be working Tor his law <]egree m addi­tion to working with Head Basketball Coach Jokmmr Jocdaa. 
Joka P. Dcfaat, promblioB manager of the Ave Maria press, .will succeed Dale Francis ts ' director o{ publications at ND. John was editor of the Scholastic while in acbooL 
Rabect Enccae Lee received his degree of doctor of raedidae at the Univeisty of Illinois Colk^e of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois. He also.received the Borden Undergraduate Research ^0 0 award for medicine for outstanding work in. researdu He will intern at Illinois Research and Educa­tional Hospital in Chicago. 
From Harvard University comes word that three class of *48 men have received advanced degrees: Williaai Francis &aat. Master of Busi­ness Administration; Rabat HamU WiiiiWij, Master of Architecture; and Fetcr Joaepli Ahnas. Master of Business Adininis raticm. 
MARRIAGES Norma Felvey and hemf Jaaa, June 2, in Rochelle, Illinois. 
JoAnn A. Hoffman and Rickard R. McCde, .\ugust 23, in South Bend. Margaret Louise Robinson'and Artlmr Oatlc s Swaia, August 25, in South Bend. Ann Elizabeth Christian awl Robert W- Marphr, Septeinbcr 8, in South Bend. . Joha R. Lacker and Joan Kroth, July 14, ia : Paw Paw, Michigan. 
JaiMS J. Knsa and Mary Ellen Black, August 
25. in Battle Creek, Michigan. 
SYMPATHY 

Friends of Ed Cronia (BSMechE), are asked to remendier him in prayers. Wocd has coa e that Ed, a Marine Lienteiuat, kat his rq|ht leg in action in Korea. He is in tlie U. S.' Xaval ' Hospital in Oakland, Calif. 
1949 
Joba P. Walker 
135 S. LaSaOe St., ChkagD 3, OEBiiis 
From James Bats;. ".. . On August 27 I' am moving to Brans-wick, Balke & CoUender as Public Relations Director after a two-year hitch as editor of the 
Wilson News Service ... " Congrats, Jim, on your new position! Private Edward W.'Jove recently graduated from 
a special leadership school conducted in Berwya, Illinois, by the Sixth Armored Division for the purpose of developing selected personnel to be-­come troop leaders and effective basic trsuning instructors. 
A recent cwnmnniration. from Bill GMaaa shows his service address as Private Williaia H.­Gibbons, U.S. 53167103 Student Co. No. 15S.T.S., South Eastern Signal School, Camp Gottloa, Georgia. 
MARRIAGES Miss Patricia Burkhart and WiBaid Roy Vaa­gea, August 1951, in BaketsSeld, California.-­
3f 
Allea Caritos Gilbert and Michcia Maria Sau­lino, June 2, in Lynch, Kentucky. Fetcr J. Browa and Dorothy Murphy, June 16, in Oak Park, Illinois. Tereaoe P. Breiuian and Mar>' Louise Kcllcy, July 14, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Danid A. Hontoon and Jeanne LcMatr, June 9, in Chicago, 111. 
1950 
John Connor, 7116 S. LaSalle, aiicago. III. 
From George S. DeKimc: 
•*I was very much surprised to sec in the last issue of the Alumnus so few comments on the whereabouts and the "what's doing" of the men in the Class of *30. It was such a small article that I made it my business to find out a little about some of the men and send it along to 
ITJU ... 
"Washington, D. C , finds in its midst two of our political science men, namely Bill 'Moose* Denning and Phil O'Connor. Bill was working with the Department of the Interior until recent­ly and is now with the C.I.A. Both men are doing well and helping to spread the good name of Notre Dame. 
"Also in Washington circles one will stumble into Tal Powell who is moving in and out of Washington as a State Dcpt. Courier. The last we heard he was expecting to land in Paris. While speaking of Couriers, Terry Armstrong, *49, has been heard from recently. His home station has been Paris, but he's been on a few assignments which have taken him to Cairo, Madrid, London, Helsinki, Leningrad, Brussels, and Dublin. In his travels he has run into Carl Ackcrmann, *49, and George Entwerp, now mar­ried and living in Cairo. He writes that in every countr>' he has traveled, he has come in contact with Notre Dame men. It's a small world after all. 
**Many of our readers will remember Ivo Fati­gati of Morrisse>' Hall fame. After graduation he went into the State Department and was sta­tioned at the American Embassy in Seoul until war broke out. Since then he has been back in this country and in Washington going through the Career Diplomat training program. 
"A card from PhH Aquino, Utica, N. Y., says that he was employed by the NY Central Sys­tem until mid-July when he was offered a job with Scribner and Sons as Contact and display men. He is working in Utica and surrounding area. Good luck to you, old boy. 
"Paul Ritzenthalcr recently employed by the F.B.I, in D. C , is back in South Bend with the Standard Oil Co. 
**Bob Nalette, last heard from was still roam­ing the ND campus doing graduate work in edu­cation. Dom lipano is with him. 
"Pete Varda and Leo Murphy coached the Monroe Catholic High School team last year (Monroe, Mich.). The latest news is that Pete wll slay on to coach the school run by the Holy Cross Brothers, and Little Leo is attending S>Tacuse University Graduate School. It may be well to mention here that Leo is the father of twin boys. 
**From the Notre Dame campus itself comes word that Jake Smith and B31 Eschbarcher en­tered Sacred Heart Novitiate last year and on the 16th of August of this year made their temporary vows of Poverty, Chastity, and Obe­dience. Their address will be Moreau Seminary in the event any of you wish to ask their prayers. The Holy Cross Fathers should be first to recognize the talent they recruited from our own class of '50. 
'*Toiii Ninneman, '50*s contribution to the de­bating team, is now* a student in St. John's University in Collegerille, Minnesota, studying for the priesthood. 
"Ray *£lincr* Lanuners was last heard from at Christmas time. He wrote then that he and Betty were expecting. . . . Let's hear Avhat it was, Ray. Congrats must be in order. 
"George DeKiaie, formerly employed by the Assf>ciates Investment Corp. in New York has been selected for the Sears, Roebuck Executive Training Program for their Foreign Service Branches. 
"For the present this is all I can muster up, but I hope soon to hear about Bob Straab, Bob Duddy, Jack Beckham, Gene Romano, Bob AU­ers. Bob and Jim Walsh, and others of our '50 men. For those in the service, send the class secretary your new address so that some of us who are anxious to know of your whereabouts can drop you a line. 
"Remember too, men . . . we're anxious to know who are the eligible bachelors of the class, who are married, and who are engaged. It makes for class unity and interest, so let's all get on the ball and show them that the Class of '30 can put up a good column in every issue of the Alumnus. Good luck, amigos, wherei^r you are!" 
From Patrick D. O'Connor: 
".. . About a week after graduation I ac­cepted an offer to work in the Personnel Division of Reo Motors, Inc., here in Lansing, Michigan. The first nine months consisted of a training pro­gram which involved working in the \'arious de> partments of the factory. Upon completion of this program I went directly into the Personnel Department. The latter part of August I went to California and got married. So what with working at Reo Motors, getting married and gen­erally getting settled, I have been awfully busy. However I am now pretty well settled here in Lansing and would like to resume contact with Notre Dame ..." 
John J. Glanville has been awarded the fac­uUy fellowship award of the Ford fund and will spend the next scholastic year studying in Freibourg, Switzerland. 
From Edmond I. Foley, Jr.: 
".. . Since my induction into the Army, I have gone through six weeks of basic infantry training, eight weeks of clerk typist school, and 10 weeks of being battery clerk for my battery. On the 23rd of December during a three-day pass, I married Rosemary Margaret Guber, and on the 2Sth of March, I brought her to Lebanon, Missouri, 41 miles from Fort Leonard Wood where I am stationed. I am going to be a father in December. 
"Enough of myself, and a little about other ND men while I'm writing to you. Buddy Romano is awaiting acceptance to OCS; Bill McMahon is working in Post Finance; John Broderick w-as here for his basic and is now in Virginia in an Army School; Dick Kluck is on the Fort Wood baseball team and pounding the ball vcr>* well; Joe Fallon spent his first six weeks here and then was transferred to another post for schooling in engineering; and Hugji ' Mulligan spent 14 weeks here and then was transferred somewhere else. I don't know where. All arc from the Class of *50, and for a while we had our own ND Club of Fort Wood; but most of us would rather have been back at Notre Dame." 
Class of '30 men in sen-ice: Raymond Frauds Fagan, William Jerome Murphy, Robert L. Ro­maker, George L. Landis, (Rev.) Bernard D. McCarthy, John D. McManus, Roger L. Browa, John J. Owens, Emil V. Garofalo, Robert J. Joyce, Donald H. Lanang, Cbarics M. Mooch, Jr., Theodore W. Wett, Paul J. Sheedy, Robert Terxence Murphy, Daniel J. Morgan, Jama E. Drennan, Ralph W. Dixon, Gerald B. Johnian, Richard D. Kempner, Valentine V. Reising, Jr., Richard Leons, James L. Ferstel, Timothy Hanra­han, Robert T. Stock. 
From Paul Mack Schaefer: 
".. . My career in the Air Force began last February after a short stay with the Associated Press in Louisville, has brought me in con act with some of my classmates and from them I got news of others. 
"Saw Didc Fit^ibboo at Wichita Falls, Texas, and at San Antonio, I ran into Mike Conley who teaches at Kit. Sacred Heart School for Boys. Also saw Gerry Johnston and Fran who told me Jim Conway, Bill Taffel and Dave Robesoo are with him in O.C.S. at Lackland. AFB. 

"A dance at a San Antonio girls* college turned into a sort of ND reunion when I 'Spied Bill Shedian and Carol (Charlie) Carter tripping the light fantastic Charlie Blomfield also in San Antonio, is married and looking for a successor soon! 
" 'Sparky' Thornton, Dave Scblafby, Tom Sag­gan, Mike and Tom O'Ndl are married and I hear Dick McGoldrick has announced his en­gagement. 
"Personally, I go into Pilot Training July 9, I know not where. Presently, I'm a Pfc with the 3510th Maintenance Squadron at Randolph FieW, Texas ..." 
Jack Doaodly, in Mannheim, Germany, where he is employed as a member of the U. S. Army, got a surprise phone call on Aug. 25. It was from Dearborn, Mich., placed from the home of Jack Courtney, Jr., who had been married that day to Patricia Lang, a Marygrove gal. 
The entire wedding party got into the act (and onto the transatlantic phone to tell Jack all about it) including Jack's dad. Jack, Sr., a member of the '25 class. 
Six of the talkers were classmates of Donnelly, and two outsiders—Pete Keman and Tom KlcHale —were permitted a short greeting. 
Jack's classmates included Bob Reding, Charlie Moosch, Jim Drennaa, Tom King, Clutdi Hollo­%vay and Best Man Jim Cramer. The Courtncys spent a wedding trip at St. Anne de Bcaupre Shrine in Montreal. 
Paul Leamy was with an Atlanta bank until last January when the President sent him "Greet­ings." 
Verne Kelley is now* a salesman for the drug di^ion of Proctor and Gamble in the Chicago area. 
Jim McLaughlin took all kinds of- pictures for a photography studio in Pittsburgh this past Spring and Summer. At last report he was planning to go to law school this fall. 
Loa Kcifer, Jr., received his master of science degree in electrical engineering at Stanford Uni­versity and is now a Research Engineer in the Guided Missiles Program at North Americran Aviation, Inc., Dou-ney, California. His present address is 128^3 Friends Ave., Whit:ier, California. 
ENGAGEMENTS Kathleen Zoia to Pvt. Theodore W. Wett. 
MARRIAGES Antoinette Slone and E. Francis Biggert, July 14, in Delaware, Ohio. John R. Dolan and Mary Lorraine Maddock, June 9, in Chicago. >^Bcent F. J. DeCrane and Flora Friday, July 7, in Pittsburgh, Pa. Fred A. Joyce and &fary Louise Lciber, August 4, in Chiczago. John G. Kelley and Dolores Dennis, June 30, in East Chicago, Ind. Stephen Walter Setdel and Rita Louise Swen­son, June 16, in St. Paul, Minnesota. Thomas Martin O'Grady and Margaret Mar>* Quinn, .August 11, at Notre Dame. Stephen G. Bolger and Mary Patricia Whalen, September 3, in Philadelphia, Pa, John Ernest Courtney, Jr., and Patricia Lang, Aug. 25 in Dearborn, Mich. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Harry J. Quinn, a daughter, Debra Marian, July 28, in Chicago. 
1951 
Robert J. Klit^enbcigcr, Secretary 1717 Pemherton Drive Fort Wayne 3, Indiana 
Raymond Vorcc is Joining the Dewey and Almy Chemical Corporation, Cambridge, Massachusetts, in their sales training program for six months. 
Edward £. Cour and M. O. McKcditt, Jr., are stationed at Great Lakes Naval Training Station in Illinois. 
Second Lt. John K. Worthington has been as­signed to the medical group of the 122nd Fighter-Interceptor Wing at Baer Field, Fort Wayne, Indiana. 

Journalism-major Jim Kingsley will earn a ma­rine lieutenant's bar when he comes out of Parris Island September 8. 
His roommate, Joe Dukert, is at present lodged at Mountain Home Air Force Base. 
Frank Brof^y hovered, at last report, between the devil and the deep-blue of Law School and the Army. 

Walt dements will depart his home in South Bend in September in an attempt to jump the border—his excuse, to study English at Laval University in Ottawa. 
Hexb Hoeae will be among the '51 graduates to return to N D for grad study. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

Jim Laughlin, another "Villager," has 'enrolled' in Camp Custer, Michigan. Dave Ycrcx, who spent the summer in South Bend, sails for New Zealand in October. John (Jake) JaDowski is handling the house organ for Singer in South Bend. 
- Ken Thoren works for an advertising agency in New York. 
Walt Collins is on an industrial publication in the Philadelphia area. 
ENGAGEMENTS Rosemar>* Ann Traccy to Paul Clark Eide. 

MARRIAGES Mary Margaret Herr and Robert £. McGlynn, August 25, at Notre Dame. Virginia Vallee and Joseph F. Dclaney, July 7, in Sheridan, Wyoming. Laurie McCawIcy and Harold G. VanTassel, June 5, in Chicago. Patricia Ann Thciss and James F. Scari, August 11, in South Bend. 
BIRTH 

To Mr. and Mrs. Raymond F. O'Connor, a daughter, Mary Kathleen, July 28, in South B:^nd. Ray is working with the Arthur E. Anderson Company in Milwaukee. 
South Bend Mayoral Race Features Scott vs. Schock 
November's mayoral contest in South Bend is slated as an all-Notre Dame affair. Incumbent George A. Schock, '18, is running against Jack Scott, '38. 
Jack, recently released from active service as a Marine lieutenant-colonel was a surprise winner in his party's primary last spring. H e took nearly 8,000 votes out of a total of 12,000 cast for a field of five. 
Most surprising, Jack ran his pri­mary campaign by remote control, letting his South Bend backers do the talking. Jack had been personnel su-
CLASS SECRETARIES 
1911 FRED L. STEERS, 105 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago 3, Illinois 1913 PAUL R. BYRNE, University Li­
brary, Notre Dame, Indiana 1914 RON O'NEIL, Argos, Indiana 1915 JAMES E . SANFORD, 1429 W. Far­
ragut Ave., Chicago 40, Illinois 1916 OROVER F. MILLER, 612 Wisconsin Avenue, Racine, Wisconsin 
1917 EDWARD J. MCOSKER, 2205 Briar­wood Road, Cleveland Hgts., 18, Ohio 
1918 
GEORGE E. HARBERT, 108 N. Main St., Sycamore, Illinois 

1919 
THEODORE C . RADEMAKER, Peru Foundry Company, Peru, Indiana 1920 RALPH W. BERGMANN, 1609 N. Jefferson Avenue, St. Louis 6, Missouri 

1921 
DAN W. DUFFY, 1101 NBC Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio 

1922 
GERALD A. ASHE, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, New York 

1923 
PAUL H . CASTNER, 1305 W. .Ar­lington Ave., St. Paul, Minnesota 1924 REV. THOMAS A. KELLY, C.S.C, Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana 

1925 
JOHN P. HURLEY, 1218 City Park Avenue, Toledo, Ohio 

1926 
JOHN J. RYAN, 2434 Greenleaf Ave., Chicago 45, Illinois

1927 
FRANK MORAN, 633 E. Monroe St., South Bend 6, Indiana 

1928 
LEO R. MCINTV-RE, 3004 Turner St., AUentown, Pa. 

1929 
DONALD J. PLUNKETT, Biology Dept., Notre Dame, Indiana 

1930 
DEVERE PLUNKETT, Social Science Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 

1931 
JAMES T . DOYLE, 6457 N. Bell Ave., Chicago 45, Illinois 1932 JAMES K. COLLINS, 17 Triangle Avenue, Dayton 9, Ohio 
September-October, 1951 
 1933 JOSEPH D . A. MCCABE, Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois  J934 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD, 6575 N. Glenwood, ."Vpt. 1, Chicago, Il­linois 

 1935 FRANKLYN C . HOCHREITER, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
 1936 
A. H. MOORMAN, 1708 Industrial 

Bank Bldg., Detroit 26, Michigan  1937 
FRANK J. REILLY, 7 Hawthorne Ave., Merrick, N. Y. 

CHARLES M . CALLAHAN, Sports  ^^^^ 
Publicity Dept., Notre Dame, In­
diana 

VINCENT DECOURSEY, 1917 Eliza­ 1939 
beth, Kansas City 2, Kansas 
RICHARD BURKE, 146 Paxton Drive, 

 1940 South Bend, Indiana 
JoH.N W. PATTERSON, JR., 123­ 1941 

Glenrock Dr., Ruchfred Acres, Bridgeville, Pa. WILLIAM E . SCANLAN, 400 E. 111th 

 1942 
St., Pullman Trust & Savings 
Bank, Chicago 28 
JOHN L. WIGGINS, 11404 Rupley 

 1943 Lane, Dallas 14, Texas  1944 GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., 515 Fifth Ave., Bradley Beach, N. J.  1945 
AL LESBIEZ, 61-56 Eighty-second St., Elmhurst, N. Y. 

 1946 
JACK TENGE, JR., 912 Levett Blvd., Houston, Texas 

 1947  1948 
No Secretary HERMAN A. ZITT, Dayton Products Co., Warren At Apple, Dayton,  1949 
Ohio JOHN P. WALKER, 135 S. LaSalle  1950 St., Chicago, Illinois JOHN CONNOR, 7116 S. LaSalle  1951 St., Chicago, Illinois 
ROBERT J. KLINGENBERGER, 1717 Pemberton Drive, Fort Wayne 3, Indiana 
JACK SCOTT 

pervisor of the South Bend school system and fiersoimel director at the South Bend Tribune before resuming active duty with the Marines. 
GEORGE A. SCHOCK 

Wallace Back in the League 
Francis Wallace, former national Aliunni President and currently Col­lier's magazine's football expert is re­ported recupierating nicely after an illness. 
He has just had published a footbaU book, "Dementia Pigskin." It will be reviewed in a subsequent ALUMNUS issue. 
Francis' oldest son John, is a soph­omore at the University in- the AB school. 
GIFTS for ALL 
FOR THE FAMILY 

Here Is on ideol gift for the family. The unique Notre Dome dinner plate, handsomely embossed, with on impressive tnontage of campus scenes on one plate. Perfect too for «scufcheon mounting or os a decorative piece. 
$1.75 
SONGS OF NOTRE DAME 

Students, Alumni and Friends, here's something that will be snioyed by the entire family . . . R.CA.'s new record album <OfTtaining the Songs of Notre Dome by the Notre Dome Band and Glee Qub. The cover of the cose witi please you with its photographic reproduction of campus scenes. . . . Then too, the records ore plastic and unbreakable in 78 R.P.M. end 45 R.P.M. Records Custom Processed and Pressed by RCA-Victor and produced and published by Recorded Pub­lications G}mpany. 
0 
c 
c 
A S I O N S 

CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES TO TOAST NOTRE DAME 
At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entcHoining will . be tops in graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre Dame glosses. The seal is permanent and they are mode up in traditional colors. 
10 oz. glasses $4.2 5 ^o^* P'u^ Si,5 0 express charges 14 oz. glasses $4.9 5 ^°^* P'^^ $1.50 ^xpf^^i charges 
NOTRE DAME "JOE COLLEGE JUNIORS" 

How proud your jroungster will be and how cute he'll look. . . fine wool biif, genuine reproductions of Notre Dome honor sweoters .. . jiies 2 to 12 . . . Cordigon style— 
$5.00 
$6.00 
Order blank en page 39 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

TRIM MONOGRAMMED NOTRE DAME WINDBREAKER 
A snug handsome jacket of lightweight poplin for year-oround wear . . . has slash pockets, full zipper front, raglan sleeves, and adjustable elastic sides . . . treated with Du Pont Zelan, and permanently vat dyed monogrammed with official Notre Dome seal. 
$6.40 

NOTRE DAME "SHIRTS FOR SQUIRTS" 
What o thrill youngsters will get wearing their own Fighting Irish polo shirts. Not only populdr, but practical too because they con be worn anywhere and ore easily woshoble . . . Every youngster wonts one, so don't forget this economically priced gift . . . Make a hit at a reasonable purchase price. 
$1.25 

September-October, 1951 
FRON THE 
N 0 T R E 
D A M E 
BOOKSTORE 
Order blank on page 39 

N. D. HEAD SCARFS 
Rne spun rayon, fringed edge head scdrf. Water repellent, crease proof. Large size 32" x 36". Colors—white or yellow. Boxed individually. 
$1.40 

MEN'S N. D.'T'SHIRTS AND SWEATBtS 
The "T " shirt you've been looiiing for . .. . the value ond quality we've been shooting for. Quality yarn, white, quarter sleeve, complete with Notre Dome and seal processed design in blue. Small (34 to 36) Medium (38 to 40) Large |42 to 44) 
$1.25 

MEN'S N. 0. SWEATSHIRIS 
Grey or white fleece-lined sweatshirts with design the same as "T" shirts. Small, Medium, large. 
$2.50 

The official Notre Dome ring and miniature as manufactured exclusive­ly by the L. G. Balfour Company shows the tower and dome of the Administration Building heavily mod­eled on one shank. The ND mono­gram is reproduced below with crossed torches in the background, an emblem of the ideals and attain­ment of Notre Dome. The opposite shank shows the seal of the Univer­sity in high relief and below are crossed torches. 
The rasied letters "University of Notre Dome" frame the stone, set in the oval top. 
Also available is a miniature of the official size ring for the sweet­heart or wife. This h an exact rep­lica, 2/3 size, of the large ring and has been manufactured to meet the great demand for this sweetheart style. 
The only stones available ore listed in the price list below. Be sure to specify the ring size in ordering. 
Side Revene 
Htntx 

OFFICIAL RING MINIATUIE RING 
Thii ring is actual size. The illuslra. This ring is actual size. Both views tion shows ihis massive ring which show designs on shanLs of this sweet­symbolizes the strength and dignity heart ring which is now available. See tiiat is Notre Dame, finger size tape below. 
Price List Notre Dame Rings 

OFFICIAL RING No. 25754 (regular weight lOK) .MINIATURE RING (lOK) 
Blue enamel top, engraved mounting .„. __-..$27.00 Black Onyx , ..$15.50 Black onyx ™ ~ . _ 26.00 Green onyx _ 15.50 Green onyx .26.00 Sardonyx _ _ 16.00 Sardon>'x . 27.00 Garnet synthetic, buff top, faceted back - 17.00 Bloodstone _ .27.00 Garnet synthetic, faceted top, faceted back _ 17.00 Garnet synthetic, buff top, faceted back —. ~ . 29.00 Amethyst No. 1, dark, buff top, faceted back — _ 18.25 Garnet synthetic, faceted top, faceted back .29.00 Amethyst No. 2, light, faceted top, faceted back _ 17.00 Amelii>-st No. I, dark, buflf lop, iucetcd back _ .34.00 Genuine aquamarine, faceted top, faceted back .. _ 18.25 Amethyst No. 2, light, faceted top, faceted back .31.00 Synthetic ruby No. 1, buff top, faceted back — _ 17.00 Aquamarine syntlictic, faceted top, faceted back .28.00 Synthetic ruby No. 2, faceted top, faceted back .. _ 17.00 .28.00 Blue spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back _ 17.00 
Synthetic Ruby No. I, buff top, faceted back . 28.00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top, faceted back - 17.00 
Synthetic ruby No. 2, faceted top, faceted back . 
.28.00 Tourmaline No. I, buff top, faceted back _ 17.00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top, faceted back . 28.00 Toturmaline No. 2, faceted top, faceted back _ 17.00 Light blue synthetic sapphire, buff top, faceted back . 29.00 Light blue synthetic sapphire, buff top, faceted back-_ 17.00 
Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top, faceted back . 28.00 Dark blue synthetic sapphire, faceted top, faceted back. .. 17.00 Tourmaline No. 1, buff top, faceted back „_. . 28.00 
Blue spinel No. I, buff top, faceted back 
IMPORTANT 

Dark blue synthetic sapphire, faceted top, faceted back . 29.00 
The enamel top ring h supplied with blue eaamel on which 
is mounted the official ND monogram, hand engraved. 
FOR DETERMINING AND RECORDING FINGER SIZE 
Take a band of firm paper same size as ring size cliart. Wrap The prices listed do not include the 20% Federal Tax. Bc it aiotmd the finger firmly at the second joint, or around the 
surc to add these charges tn computing your order. 
largest part of the finger if the joints arc not prommcai. Lay it on the ring size chart below to get your exact size. 
THE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT 
Rinfl Siie For Measttrinfi Fini 
For Men — The Notre Dame Official Ring For Ladies — The Notre Dame Miniature Ring
fm 

To assure delivery for Christmas, orders must 
3«9t1B«lO» 
be received on or before November 23rd. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ORDER BLANK 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dome Notre Dame, Indiana 
NOTRE DAME PIATES—$1.75 Quantity Plates 
SONGS OF NOTRE DAME—$5.00 
Quantity Albums 78 R. P. M. 
Quantity Albums 45 R. P. M. 
"JOE COUEGE JUNIORS"—$6.00 
Sizes 2 to 12. Ages 9 mos. to 11^ years designate size 
2. On others list quantity desired, age of child and check whether they are small, average, or large for their age. 
Quan Age S A L Quan Age S A L Quan Age S A L 
NOTRE DAME DRINKING GLASSES 
doz. 10 oz. glasses—$4.25 plus $1.50 express cost. Total—$6.00 doz. 14 oz. glasses—$4.95 plus $1.50 express cost. Total—$6.45 
NOTRE DAME WINDBREAKER—$6.40 
Please check quantity and sizes desired. Quan Small (34-36), Quan Medium (38-40). 
Quan Large (42-44). 
"SHIRTS FOR SQUIRTS"—$1.25. Sizes 2 to 14. 
Please follow identical instructions as with "Joe College 
Juniors." 
Quan Age.. .A. 
Quan Age.. A. 
Quan Age.. A. 
All prices quoted include 
NOTRE DAME HEAD SCARr5>-$1.40 Quan Scarfs — Wh'rt* Quan Scarfc — Ydlow 
MEN'S N. D. 'T ' SHKTS—$1.25 
MEN'S N. D. SWEATSHnTS—$2JO 
Sizes small (34-361, medium (38-40), and large (42­44). Send "r* shirt (s) in size 
Send Sweatshirt Is) in size white gray 
"JUNIOR COLLEGE" ALSO AVAILABLE IN COHON— NAVY BLUE WITH CHEMLLE MONOGRAM. Sizes 2 to 12 
—$3J 0  
Quan  Age.  S  A  L  
Quan  Age.  S  A  L  
Quan  Age.  S.  A  L  

NOTRE DAME OFROAL RING Style No 
Stone ­Size Engraving 
NOTRE DAME MINIATURE RING Style No 
Stone 
Size 
Engraving 
handling and mailing costs. 

PLEASE SHIP TO:  
NAME  ...  
ADDRESS  
CITY  ZONE  STATE  
Enclose check or money order, or merchandise may be sent C.O.D.  

Mr. L;dJaar<l J. ii-acsy -jr. 12^7 Old Boaloburg Rd.. State College. Pa. 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA-/';i..r„iA—All.L-rl J. Kicks, if. RR 2. Box 1504. ~ Tufjon—Timothy R. King. "37. 1620 Linden .\ve. 
.ARKA.VS.AS—/-Vir/ SmUli—B. Du%'al Johnslon. '37. 925 Garrison. 
CALIFORNI.A-/,<« .4nsf;.>—Benjamin F. .Alexan­der. '34, 581X1 Lemp St.. North HolKivood. CaliL Hakrnfirlft—(In process)—B>Ton J. Coleman. *4f(. Box 547, Bakerslicld. 
.Vori/icrij—George E. 1 honias. *37. 1212 Broad-w-ay St.. Oakland. Calif. San «i<j!o—Winlicid S. Day. '.Ifi. Rt. 1. Box 817. LaMcsa. 
COLORADO—«.fi.-.r—Robert J. Flynn. '49. SSfi 
E. First .Ave. 
CO.VNECTICUT—Conn,r/.Vii/ loWo-—John E. Lynch. Jr.. '.35. 180 Woadrow St.. West Hartford. Saugatuck Volley—D. Frank Murnane. '.32, 107 1 amungloii .Ave. \Va.eib.;r>­
Southivcstern—Nicholas A- Lanese. *37. 1G75 Iranistan Ave.. Bridgeport. DEL.AWARE—Arthur .A. Bauni. •.3(i. 22:) Champlain .Ave.. Bencnioorc. 
DISTRICT OF COLU.MBIA—I'aul C. Tnliy. '39. 330G Camalier Lane. Chevy Chase, Xld. 
FLORIDA—f:r,o;,r -l/mmi—Faris N. Covi-art. "34, 1803 S.W. 8th St.. -Miami. FnrI iMudrrilatr—iuha C. Sullivan. •31. ICIIO 
S. E. 11th St. Xortlt Floriita—^Jolin F. Lanalian. "43. I*. O. Bi>x 1679. Jacksonville. 
GEORGIA—.4/;on(o—William E. Beckley. '34. 3249 Wood Valley Rd.. N. W.. .Atlanta. 
IDAHO—I'aul J. Kohoiil. '25. 1722 Washington St.. Boise. 
ILLINOIS—Cn.'ra/ Wiii-iij—John Lynaugh. '3 . 
318 Stale House. Springfield. C/iirojo-Alfred C. Stephan. Jr.. "31. 548 -Maple St.. Winnelka, III. 
Easlrrn lllhioh—^John Meyer. "42. 1314 Franklin-Danville. Fn\- raf/ci—George R- Schmidt. '29. 620 Summit. 
Elgin. Jolifl-Kcnkakr.—Arthur Smith. Jr.. "48. R.D. -No. 2. 
Pcnria—Louis F. Crystal. '.36. lOIfl Nor»»€)od .Ave., I'coria 4. Rock Rivrr Valley—11. Gerald Jones. "22. 706 
E. Fellott-s St., Dixon. 
l-VDIANA—Ca/nmf/ «i"j/ri"r/—William J. Riley. •3«. 4801 Indianapolis Blvd., East Chicago, Ind. Eastern Indiana—William S. MacDonald. *27. Indiana Bell Telephone Co.. Muncie-Forl irojnc—Ed«-ard J. Disser. '39. 2501 So. Webster St, IniHatiafiolti—^Thomas M. Fitzgerald. Jr.. "33. 124 E. 49lh St. Mleliigan «;)•—Walter A. "nmm, "50. 201 I-akc -Ave. SI. Jotetih roWo—Robert A. Holmes. ".30. 1325 
E. ^lonroe. South Bend, Indiana. Tri-Slale (Ky.. InJ. & ///.)—Raymond G. Ziliak­"30. HaulKtadt. Ind. Wabash Valley—W. W. Runge. '39, 408 W, -Market St- Crawfordsvile, 
IOWA—0« .\tn!nes—F. Marcellus Wonderlin. "29. 302 Hubljell BIdg. Duliuijuc-Robert II. Kenlinc, '35, 418 Bank .'i Insurance BIdg. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island. MoHne. E, .Moline)—Francis T. McGuirc. '37. I3i3 22nd -Ave-, Rock Island, III. Sioux-Land—Edu-ard Simonicli. "39- 1605 Main St-, Sioux City, 
KANS.AS—Eastern—^Judgc Joseph J, Dawes. '26. 420 Arch St-. Leavenworth. 
KE-V1"UCK.Y—Pierre V- Angermeier. "31- 2."08 Gladstone, Louisville 5­LOUISI,A,\",A—-V,:.- Or/tonj—William G. Smith, Jr„ "46. 625 Hibernia Bank BIdg. Sorthern Louisiana—^James R- Nowcry- '29, P, O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94, 
M-ARYL/\ND—BoZ/imor.—John G- Prendergast. '30, 1044 -Mathieson Bldg-
MASSACHUSEITS—Bojion—John C- Bresahan, '45. 2J8 Bailey St- Laurence, Mass, I'ioneer Valley—^John F- Shea, '06, 95 Lexington Ave— Holyokc- Mass-
MICHIGAN—/Jcrr/fii C»i/n/l—William H, Downcv, '28. 60 -V, St. Joseph Ave',. .Viles, niue Water D/Jlric/—William L. Wilson, '42, P, O. Box 295, Port Huron. 
Cenlral—Ttr. Edgar J, Hermes. '21, 604 Willow Lansing. /Jcafftorn-Eugene W, Rheaume. '29. 24127 Rock­ford. 
«.;rni"/—James N, Motshall. '39, 233 Kenwood Ct.. Crosse Point 30, .Mich. Grand Rapids and Western .Michigan—George 
A. Jackoboice- "31, 327 Front Ave,, N.W,. Grand Rapids 4, -Mich. Wia.-t'flt/ia/a«rf—Joseph A- Lauennan. *31, 1940 Stephenson St., Marinette, Wis. Iron Range—Ro\Kn T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLeon -Ave,. Ironwood. 
,l/.mr.i.—Tlioinas E, Griffin, ".33- 205 East 3rd St­.iaginau- l'a//o^l'aul -A. Brysselboul. '29, 1400 Cornell St,, Bay City, 
.MI-V-VESOTA—Tain Cities—Ray A- Tliibodeau, '31, Builders Exchange, 338 Hauun BIdg,, St. Paul 3. Dululh-Superior-Wm. E- Cotter-Jr- '41, 114 Laurie St,. Dululli. 
-MISSOURI-ICan.<ai Ci";j^(,Mo. and Kans,) Thomas E- Oakcs-Jr- '31. 45(l« W. 74th PL, Mission, Kansas. 
St. /.on/j-John P. Sullix-an. '39. 908 Abbey Lane. University City 24, Mo, 
.MO.NTANA—Bernard Graiucy. "43. 801 |2lli .Ave., Helena, 
.NEBRASKA-Robert D. Welsh, "26. 959 S. 48th St., Omaha 6, 
-VEW JERSEY—Philip J. Heinle. "35, 499 Ridge-wood Rd,, Maplewood, C.niro/—.Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave,. Perth -Amboy­.9oii//i y,rj.y—Jack Muruhy. '49. 4617 West End Ave.. Mcrchantville 8, N. j . 
,NEW YORK—/JII/?B/..—-Maurice F, Quinn, '37, 1919 Kensington Ave,, BulTalo 21. Capital District—^,'\ndrew M. Pinckney, '41, 14 Circle Lane, .Albany. Crn/ra/—John H. Terry. "45, 213 Rich St„ Syracuse. N, Y. .Mid-Hudson I'aH.j'—Henry J. Fischer. '34, 197 
E. Chester St-, Kingston­.Mohaick I'a/Zo'—Edward J- Sweeney- '30, 133 .Addington PI.. Utica, Xeu' York City—Jama G. McGoldrick, '39, 2675 Henrv- Hudson Pfcw*y,. Rtverdale 63, X. Y. Sorthern—^Joseph R. Brandy, '21, St. Lawrence Broadcasting Corp-. Ogdenshurg, N. Y, Rochesti r—^/\rnold B, Morrison. '35. 581 Beach Ave.. Rochester 12, Schenectady—William G. Leonard. Jr,. *49, 116 .Tackson Ave,. Apt, D. .Southern Tier—Edwin Bonhain. '09. 329 Hamilton St.. Painted Post. .\. Y. rri"/>(<- Ci"(i.M—Dr. J, Worden Kane, '26, 55 River­side Dr,. Binghantton. 
OHIO—.-Uron-EdwTird G. Batch, '29. c/o Social Security .Admiiiislralion. Can/on—Charles J. Kennedv, '49, 1615 Chcrrv St„ -N.E. C/nrinna/i-Howard A- Rohan. "41, 2S90 Erie .Ave. C/c.-v/anrf-Ward H. Leahv. '26. 327 Bonniewood Dr. Cn/umfcuj—Joseph E. Ryttn. '30, 227 Chesterfield Rd., Columbus 8. Haj/on—Edward C, Stciner. Jr„ '44. 1,30 Rose­wood Dr,, Davton 5. 

Hamilton—^Judge Harry F, Walsh, '31, Municipal Court, 0/im Valley—^John Robinson, "47, 45th and Guern­sey Sts,. Bcllairc, Sandusky—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr„ "28,. 3413 S. Columbus Ave. Ti^in—Fred J, Wagner, '29. 152 Sycamore St, Toledo—M. Robert Kopf. Jr„ '48, Kimble Glass ­Co., Ottio BIdg. Youngslou'n—Francis Hopkins, '41. 3646' Slrat-'_ more Avc-
OKLAHOMA—OWa/ioma Ci'/j'—Haskell Askew, '31, 2420-A No. Robinson, Tii/ja—I'alrick II. Malloy. '36- 1910 First Nat'l-Bank BIdg. 
OREGO.V—Oscar Quoidback, "48, 325 ,N,W. 18th -Ave,, Portland. 
PE.\NSYLVANIA—£oi».rii—Leo R- -Mclntyrc, '28­3004 Turner St-, Allentown, fw—Joseph C, Barber- '36, 705 Ariel BIdg, flarrisburg—Wm- J- Moore, '26, 733 McKcan Ave,, Donora, Pa, 
Monongahela Valley—^Adolph V, Caiiano, '26. 
733 McKean Ave,, Donora, I'liiladelphia—Joxph F.—Caltie, '41. 6707 Crit­tenden St., PhiladeIphia_J.9­
/•;//ifcarg/i—RobeVt \'7"^lton, Jr., '33. 356 S. Negley Ave. 5cra«/on—Gerard .A. Purcell, '39, 901 Poplar St, iriKcr-Uarrc-Edward J. Rowan. '35, 34 West North St, ll'i/;iomjp<.r/—William_ R. Downs,. '08. 1013 'J hompion St., Jersey Shore, Pa, 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E- .MASS-ACHUSETTS— Russell L- Hunt, '38, 412 Providence St-, Woon­sDcket, R- I-­
"lE-VNESSEE—C/ioHanoojso-"niomas B. Owtn, '35. 4115 Mayfair Ave. -l/cm/j/iij-R-—Lanion Kelly, "50, 204 Union, Memphis. Tenn. 
TEX-AS—Dallas—^Janies W. Simmons- Jr,, '32, 5343 Wateka, WouKoji-Eugene F- Malloy- '36- 3705 -Arnold St. San .4 nionio—Edward G- Conroy, '30, 209 Calu­met PL, San Antonio 9: 
UTAH—Jack W- Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearlls BIdg.. Salt Lake City, 
VIRGI.VIA—Charles M, .Morrison. "38, Pump Home Road, Richmond, 
WASHI-VGTO.V—i/ii.iine—.Arinonde R- Albo, '35. 2510 W. Garland-' Weslerji—W. Jerome Kane, '38, 10504 Valiiiay Ave., Seattle 77. 
WEST VIRGI-VIA—-Michael J, 0"Connor, '36, 1518 North Drive. So, Charleston 3. 
WISCO-NSI-N—/-"ov River Valley—Robert 'Bernara. '36. S53 Higgins .Ave., Neenali, Wis-Creen Bay—^John B- Stdlivan, '43, 715 X- Jackson­JjiCroMc—August -M- Grams. '28, 217 S, Front St. -l/;/aa«<v<—Floyd J. Sulliran, '40, 4708 W. Xorlh Ave., Milwaukee 8. 
South Cfn/ra/-Thomas H, Flad, '40, 503 S. Proi­
pcct. Madison. Wis. 
rOREIG.N CLUBS llengai, India—Rev. John W,- Kane, C.S,C,. '24. (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C, Fitzgerald, '94. (key man) La Xfetropolitana (711), Habana, Harcofi—Thomas W. FIvnn. Jr., '35. 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, T. H. 
Manila—Anthony F, Gonzales, '25, (key man) The Insular Life Assurance Co.. Ltd,, Insular Life Bldg­
-MEXICO--t/cvifo C;(j—Telmo DcLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City,' Panama—William J, Sheridan, '38. Box 605, An-­con,. Canal Zone, Puerto Rico—Paul F. McManiLS, '34, (key man) B-& M. Products Co., Box 2695. San Jiian, 
SOUTH AMERia\—/VrB—Andres -Malalesta, "23. Tacna, Pent, S,A- . . ­
PRINTED AT AVETMARIA PRESS 






