The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

ALUMNUS 
r­

*The question fa~ced by the worid is quite men be able to submit the use of science",and>tlie'^ power of technique to wisdom?' 
DIRECTORY of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—PAotnit—Thomas E. O'Mallcy, '39, 320 
W. Virsinia. Tucson—Ted W. Witz, '29, Box 628. 

CALIFORNIA—LoJ Aneeles—Vernon E. Rickard, 
•24, 1620 N. VUta St., Holh^vood 46. A'orlAfrn-Donald L. .Allen, '37, Federal Bldg., Civic Conference, San Francisco. 
San CiVeo—W. Albert Stewart, '36, 728 San Diego Tr. & Savings BanV Bldg. 

COLORADO—Binrfr-Jamcs F. Hanlon, '18, 1652 Glencoe St. 
CONNECTICUT—Conntc/iVBi X'^allty—WMhxm J. Reid, '26, 7 May St., Hartford. Naugatuck Valley—D. Frank Murnane, '32, Summit Rd., Prospect. SoulhmtsUrn—Frank S. McGee, '33, 51 Savoy St., Bridgeport 6. 
DELAWARE—Arthur C. Baum, '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—It'aj'ii'ngion-J. R. "Pat" Gorman, '40, 1740 K St., .\W. 
FLORIDA—Grrairr Miami—1. I. Probst, '26, 1118 
Alberca Ave., Coral Gables. Fort LauderdaU-Fred J. Stewart, '12, Port Everglades Station. North 'Florida—John F. Lanahan, '43, P.O. Box 1498, Jacksonville. 

GEORGIA—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rum-son Rd., Atlanta. 
IDAHO—Paul J. Kohout, '23, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—CAiM^o—John L. Buckley, '38, 929 N. Euclid, Oak Park. Fox raH«}--William B. Chawgo, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora. yofiV/—Joseph V. Kirindch, '33, 306 Ruby St. P<-orw—Eugene R. Slcvin, '44, 609 W. Rich-woods Blvd. Rock River Valley—^Donald A. Hennessy, '37, Catholic Community High School, Sterling. 
Springfield—Kidard T. Neeson, '30, 806 S. 8th 
St. 

INDIANA—Co/umc/ DijlVic/-James J. Glenn. '35, 1337 119th St., Whiting. 
Eastern Indiana—Vfilli^m B.'Cronin, ex-3I, 521 
E. Jefferson, Hartford City. Fort Wayne—ZdvAn J. Wesner, '25, 4607 Fair­field. 
Indianapolis—Nicholas J. Connor, Jr., '36, 38 Shelby St. Michigan City—^Francis G. Fcddcr, '31, E. Cool-spring Ave. St. Joseph KoUc)'—Francis M. Messick, '30, 1333 E. Wayne St., South Bend. Tri-State (Ky., Ind. and Bl.)—Robert L. Hen­neberger, '35, 126 E. 4th St., Mt. Carmel, 111. Wabash Valley—Or. Kenneth F. Laws, '36, 501-5 Lafayette Life Bldg., Lafayette. 

IOWA—D« Moines—Roben J. Ticrnan, '40, 650 39tn St. Dubuque—^Louis F. Fautsch, *35, IIM5 S. Grand-view. Sioux Ctty—Robert A. Manning, '36, 2719 Ne­braska bt. (key man) 
- Tri-Cili«—John R. Corv-n, '22, 2515 13th St., Moline, 111. 
KANSAS—£<u/frn—J[udge Joseph J. Dawes, '25, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. 
KENTUCKY—James C. Carrico, '33, 2903 S. Foutrh St., Louisville. ;t; , 
LOUISIANA—Neu! OrlMns—Jules K. de la Vergnc, ?38, 5811 Hurst. JVor/Aern-James'-R^ Nowery, '29, P.O. Box 1545, ShrtVTiport 94. 
MARYLAND—Bof/fmorc-Franklj-n C. Hochreiter, '35, 1327 Pemwood Rd. 
MASSACHUSETTS—Boj/on— John V. Moran, '30, Costello, Moran & Mahan, 31 State St. 
MICHIGAN—Berrien Coun<3>—William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., NUes. Blue Water BiUricJ-William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O. Box 295. Port Huron. Central—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '18, 828 N. Logan St., Lansing. 
ZJe/roi/-Thomas J. Moran, '35, 1329 Bucking­ham Rd., Grosse Pointe 30. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Robert 
N. Alt, cx-29, 901 Plymouth Rd., S.E. 
Hiawathaland—Paul Krcuz, '33, 1215 Alichigan 
Ave., Menominee, Wis. Iron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan, cx-45, 635 McLeod A\*e., Ironwood. 
Saginaw Valley—Joseph C. Goddeyne, 'U, 2275 
Carrol Rd., Bay City. 

MINNESOTA—Tain C."(i«—Paul H. Castner, '23, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul 4. Duluth-Superior—\im. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 

MISSOURI—Kaiuot Ci/j^(Mo. and Kans.)— Jo­seph M. Van Dyke, ex-44, 4642 Pennsylvania, Kansas City 2, Mo. St. Louis—John J. GrifSn, Jr., '39, 7236 North-moor Dr., University City 5. 
MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
NEBRASKA—Eugene F. Milbourn, e.x-39, 4431 Cass St., Omaha. 
NEW JERSEY—Gervasc A. Froelich, '27, Ingraham 
PI., New-ark 8. Central-Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. 

NEW YORK—Bu#a;n—Daniel C. Sheedy '39, 390 Roycroft Blvd., Snyder. 
Capital District—Joxph W. Conlon, '35, 832 
New Scotland Ave., Albany. Centra/-Daniel A. Kelley, '41, 706 Stinard St., Syracuse 4. 
Mohawk KoHej—F. Donald Fullem, '30, 203 
Roosevelt Dr., Utica. 
New York City—Jordan Hargrove, '35, 1223 
Webber Ave., So. Hempstead, N. Y. Northern—Rev. Donald S. Gallagher, '24, St. Bernard's Rectory, Lyon Mountain. RoeAej/er—John M. Hedges, Jr., e.x-43, 141 Scio St. 
^eAenec/orfj^-Charlcs E. Welsh, '38, 1150 Sum­
ner Ave. 
Triple Cilies—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, 55 
Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 

OHIO—j«Ton—Paul A. Bertsch, '29, 159 Oakdale 
Ave. Con/on—William H. Bclden, '36, 305 22nd St., N.W. 
Cincinnati—John C. Cottingham, '38, Penn Mu­tual Life Instuance Co., 1200 Union Trust Bldg. Cfeoe/anrf—Robert N. Stack, '41, 2714 Brook­dale Ave., Parma. 
Columbus—Dr. Thomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 

E. Town St.­! . fliiyfon—Thomas C, Ferneding, '40, 530 E. Had­
• ' ley Ave., .Apt. I. 
, ; ifamiVfon—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, Munid-, ; I ; pal Court. 
Ohio Ko/fej^WiUiaoi J. Yaeger, '42, 156,'S. j • : Park ISt., Wheeling, W. Va. 
: 13 5a»(fari)'-;Alfred i A. jSchnurr, Jr., '28,1 S. Co-: ; ^Jiimbiis Ave. ! . i i T i : I i ! • j > ' >-.: 
ri^ii-Fred J. Wagner, '29, 84!4 S. Washington St. Toledo—John R. Malone, '42, 4805 Summit St. Fornicitoun—Clarence T. Sheehan, '40, "The 
Vindicator." 

OKLAHOMA—ra/M-William B. Padon, '42, 9 Woodland Dr., Box 1589. 
Oklahoma Ci/)--HaskeU Askew, '31, 1000 Per­rine Bldg. 

OREGON—Peter F. Sandrock, '39, 6334 NE Grand AiT., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA—Bir/ern—Leo R. Mclntyxe, '28, 3004 Turner St., Allentown. 
Erie—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel Bldg. 
ffarrufrure—Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., '44, 2929 North 2nd Ave. 
Monongahela Valley—George C. Martinet, '34, 
R.D. No. 1, Charleroi. 
Philadelphia—x\mhrose F. Dudley, Jr., '43, 1123 N. 63rd St. 
Pittsburgh—Eugene J. Coyne, '33, Coyne .Ave., Allison Park. 
5ei-Bn»on—Michael B. Comerford, '43, 1208 Richmont St. 
M'iHcej-Barre—Dr. Maurice J. Regan, '31, 115 
S. Franklin St. 
FfiKianupor/—Frank C. Hayes, '27, 820 Erie Ave., Renovo. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '39, 412 Providence St., Provi­dence, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—Afempiu-Phil M. Canale, Jr., "40, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg. 
TEXAS—Da//iu—Edmond R. Haggar, '38, 6113 Lem­mon Ave. HoluroR-Thomas A. Standish, '35, 2106 Swift. San Antonio—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stan­ford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. GalUvan, '37, 1017 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
WASHINGTON—IKertern—John P. English, '33, J. 
P. English Steel Co., 465 E. 15th St., Tacoma. Spokane—John P. O'Neill, Jr., '29, 218 W. 14th Ave. 

WEST \TRGI.\1A—Albert H. Kessing, '40, 925 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. WISCONSIN—Green Ba)^HaroId L. Londo, '24, Sup't., Green Bay Water Dept. 
Fox River Kof/ej^William H. Fiew^er, '36, 419 Naymut St., Menasha. La Crosse—Frederick R. Funk, '46, 208 South 
15th St. Milwaukee—VtSUam C. Malaney, '41, 4012 N. FarweU. 
South Central—John C Brennan, '41, 2331 Eton ^dgc , Madison. 

FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. 
Cilia—Christopher C. Fit^etald, '94, (keyman). 
La Metropolitana (711), Hahana. Hoaioii-Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opi­hi St., Honolulu, T.H. 
Manila—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man). The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg. 
Panama—William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, 'AlKxm., Canal Zone. 

;.' iiS^' " iKto—Paul Fj'Mcltanus, '34, (fer'nian), 1': 'V'&rM Fkoducts ConipajiTl.Box 2695, )Si( Juan. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second dass matter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the Postollice, No.re Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. 
James E. Azinstrong, '25. Editon William B. Dooley, '26, Monaging Editor 
Vol. 27 MAY-JUNE, 1949 
a#we Weeh" . . . 
UN D Night Sets Record 
Scientific achievements of the University were highlighted as clubs ever>^vhcre met on April 25 to observe the 26th annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Doubtless, it was the outstanding UND Night of them all, surpassing even the bril­liant record set by the clubs on the same occasion a year ago. Written reports as printed in the club section of this ALUM.VUS, many letters from club officers and other aiumni and comment from the 28 speakers from the campus who addressed clubs,— all these add up to "biggest and best" .And reports are still coming in! 
In fact, so intensive and extensive has Universal Notre Dame Night become that this suggestion has been advanced: "Why not have Universal Notre Dame Week?" 
Maybe we should. For the vast majority of clubs, UND Night was obser\-ed on schedule, on Mon­
day, April 25. But the national radio broad­cast, over WGN, Chicago, and Mutual, could not be arranged for that Monday night and so was held over for Tuesday night, April 26. In Philadelphia, where UND Night was "bom" 26 years ago, the observance was also held on Tuesday night, with an attendance of 800 in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel and an address by Rev. Rob­ert H. Sweeney, c.s.c, assistant to the president. 
.And some other clubs held their observ­ances later in the week, or even the follow­ing week, to meet local conditions. In Youngstown, for instance, the club observed UND Night, along with the club's 25th birthday, on Thursday night, April 28. The chief address for a brilliant and significant dinner was given by Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, c.s.c, president of the Universit}-. 
Also observing their 25th birthdays, but 

Two of the University's most prominent alumni were speakers al the Baltimore Club's UND Night observance. They are Tigbe E. Woods, '33, Federal Housing Expediter (stand­ing), and Edward M. O'Connor. '32. Commissioner, President's Commission for Displaced Persons (next to Woods). Others shown at head table are Bev. David Fossehnon. C.S.C and Mrs. Boy O. Scholz. wife of last year's club president 
Volume 27, No. 3, May-June, 1949 
No. 3 

Charles B. Cushwo. Jr.. right, receives the Youngstown Club's award as "the man of the year" from President Clarence Sbeehan. 
on April 25, were the clubs in Syracuse 
(Central New York) and Washington, D. C. The Western Washington Club (Seattle) is going to observe its 25th birthday next fall, on the occasion of the Washington-Notre Dame game in Seattle. (But note the chal­lenge of these Far Westerners as to the per­centage of membership present for their UND Night dinner this year.) 
The practice, begun a year ago, of recog­nizing the Notre Dame "Man of the Year" in a club community, was vastly extended this year with the presentation of many scrolls by clubs all over the country. As you'll read in the club notes and see in the pictures in this ALUMNUS, the clubs brought to public notice a si.gnificant number of out­standing Notre Dame men. 
The Chicago Club continued its prac­tice of recognizing a Notre Dame faculty member for his contributions to the field of learning. The recipient of the club's Faculty-Award this year was Dr. Eugene Guth, di­rector of the high polymer physics labDra­tory at Notre Dame, the first such laboratory in the United States. Dr. Guth, who came to Notre Dame in 1937 from the University of Vienna, is known as a top authority on the development of synthetic rubber and cel­lulose products. His research at Notre Dame is concerned primarily with the study of the physical properties of rubber and plastics. 
Contributing notably to the success of Universal Notre Dame Night was the work of the Department of Public Information at Notre Dame, directed by Raymond J. Don­ovan, '42. Ray and his associates prepared skillfully and sent out to all club presidents, and to other persons concerned with club observances, a "kit" of suggested radio scripts and publicity material, as well as background material for speeches. 
With this aid, many dubs were able to get unprecedented cooperation from local newspapers and radio stations. 
A new t^-pe of cathode (source of elec­trons), which for a fraction of a second will generate nearly six times as much pow­er in a vacuum tube as the largest power station in the United States, has been devel­oped by Dr. Edward A. Coomes, professor of Physics at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Coomes' research and other scientific achievements of the Universit>' were high­lighted April 26 in the nationwide radio program over the Mutual Broadcasting Sys­tem originating from Washington Hall on the campus through Station WGN in Chi­cago. 
The cathode, the most powerful low-temperature source of electrons ever devel­oped, is used particularly in radar tubes and in all places where microwave power is used. Dr. Coomes was on leave of abscence from Notre Dame during World War II to work on cathodes used in radar tubes and recently received a govenmiental citation for his war-time research. 
The powerful cathode developed by Dr. Coomes is approximately 600 times more powerful than existed prior to the outbreak of World War II. Before the war, the most powerful cathodes were used in tubes capa­ble of generating approximately 10 kilo­watts. The new cathode worked on by the Notre Dame scientist helped to make possi­ble the development of electron tubes ca­pable of generating approximately 6,000 kilowatts. 
Dr. Coomes hastens to explain, however, that this cathode is tisable only in situa­tions in which the power is turned on and off within much less than one second. Other­wise, he explains, the power generated would melt the tube in which the cathode is used. 
Father John Cavanaugh, speaking on the Mutual Broadcasting System program. 
For Additional UND NIGHT PICTURES See Pages 18-19 

pointed out that "the ultimate object of every Catholic school is the development of the individual to know God, to love Him, and to serve Him in this world so as to be happy with Him in the life to come." Father Cavanaugh, stressing that Notre Dame has never veered from this objective, declared that "to know God, to love Him, and to ser\-e Him in this modem age means among other things to develop in the indi­vidual the greatest possible talents and skilk in secular knowledge." 
The Notre Dame president explained that "it is not our goal to be a university known only for excellence in the physical sciences," but he emphasized that "it is our goal to be great in the physical sciences, so that Notre Dame will develop great scien­tists, as well as great teachers, and lawyers, and doctors, leaders in business, influential men in press and radio." He explained that "tonight we are turning the spotlight on sci­ence because that is the area of most urgent demand and most immediate promise on the campus." 
Father Cavanaugh, after tracing the early scientific research and the war-time research conducted in Notre Dame laboratories, said: "The war is over, but the challenges in sci­ence increase. In Notre Dame's laboratories eminent scientists arc busy during the day and well into the night working with the young men who tomorrow must take the lead. In the sciences as in the arts tomor­row's leadership h today's challenge. In ac­cepting the challenge, Notre Dame is deter­mined to give the best in the sciences in a moral and religious atmosphere, so that the trustworthy, responsible scientists, using the vast resources at their command, will work for the benefit of mankind and help stabilize order and true peace in the years ahead." 
The dramatic presentation over the Mu­tual Broadcasting System traced Notre Dame's notable contribution to science from the early days when Dr. Jerome Green, pro­fessor of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame, sent the first wireless message in America from the Notre Dame campus in April, 1899, through the discovery of the basic formula of synthetic rubber at Notre Dame by Rev. Julius Nieuwland, c.s.c, and pioneer work in aeronautics by Dr. Albert Zahm, down to the present day research. 
In addition to the aforementioned re­search of Dr. Coomes, other important Notre Dame scientific research dramatized in the broadcast included research toward peace­time applications of atomic energy using Notre Dame's electrostatic generator (atom smasher), and the research being conducted in the field of synthetic rubber and plastics in the Physics Department. 
The program described isolation by Dr. Charles C. Price, Head of the Department of Chemistry at Notre Dame, of four com­pounds capable of neutralizing the Rh fac­tor in human blood. Research now is being conducted by Dr. Price to determine the structure of the compounds, which if suc­cessful, will enable a s>'nthetic production which may be used in treatment against the Rh factor and prevent many stillbirths and miscarriages in pregnancies, jaundice and other serious blood diseases. 
The program told of investigation also in the chemistry department, to develop anti­malarial drugs. Research in the chemistry department at Notre Dame has been suc­cessful in the development of four new anti­malarial drugs. These drugs have been selected for clinical trial at government-designated civilian and military hospitals, and although still of a confidential nature, this research is understood to have resulted in other discoveries of value in the fight against malaria. 
Popular-type experiments in the Labora­tories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame (LO­BUND) also were described on the Mutual program. Under the direction of Prof. James 
A. Reyniers, unique experiments involving the rearing of germ-free animals are being conducted. Experiments being conducted in LOBUND are expected by many scientific 
Some oi the notable members of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington get to­observers to suggest new methods of ap­gether before the banquet of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington on UniTeisal proach in such problems as immunity, virus Motre Dame Night in Seattle. I,eft to right are George Nyere, '03, Frank I. McHugh. '11. infection, tissue degeneration, radiation in­first president of the club. Morris E. Starrelt, '21, Harry A. Able, '07, and Ed O. Brown. '24. jury, dental caries and heart disease. 
The 67tb Distinguished American 
Laetare Medal to Irene Dunne 
Miss Irene Dunne, prominent movie actress, was announced on March 27 as the 1949 recipient of the Laetare Medal. 
Miss Dunne is the sixty-seventh distin­guished American to receive the Laetare Medal, the oldest American Catholic medal, which is called the Laetare Medal because the award is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. It was founded by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, c.s.c, founder of the University of. Notre Dame. 
Father Cavanaugh, in announcing the 
award to Miss Dunne, said: "Miss Dunne 
is an example of talented Christian woman­
hood in a profession and community unfor­
tunately publicized for the briefness of mar­
riages and careers. She has never subordi­
nated her conscience to her art, but from 
the outset of her career has insisted on 
wholesome pictures. Throughout fifteen 
years as a top-ranking star she has re­mained an exemplary wife and mother while winning the admiration and respect of high and low in the film industry and in the world at large." 
Five times nominated for the Academy Award during her long career on the screen. Miss Dunne has received many honors. Last year she was honored with the American Brotherhood Award for Distinguished Ser­vice by the National Conference of Chris­tians and Jews. She also was honored by the American Mothers Committee of the Golden Rule Foundation with an award for the "most outstanding portrayal of a Mother on the American Screen by an American actress in 1948," as a result of her leading role in the film success "I Re­member Mama." The Society of Nonvay Playwrights presented a jeweled crown to Miss Dunne for outstanding ability as an actress with special reference to "I Remem­ber Mama," and she received a statuette from the Woman's Voice Award. 
Miss Dunne is Chairman of the Field Army American Cancer Society, co-chair­man with Harold Stassen of the American Heart Association and co-chairman with E. Roland Harriman of the American Red Cross. She has donated generously to nu­merous charitable organizations, established a scholarship in St. John's Seminary built by Archbishop Cantwell and at present is planning a scholarship to be raised for spe­cial research in well known Catholic girls colleges. 
Miss Dunne often has been praised by her associates in Hollywood for the very simple and devout life which she leads in her pri­vate life. As the wife of Dr. Francis Dennis Griffin, she is called an "ideal mother' to their adopted daughter, Mary Frances. In spite of the fact that activity on the Holly­wood set begins at 7 a-m., she attends Mass each morning before reporting to the studio. 
Of Irish descent. Miss Dunne was bom 
Miss Irene Dunne 
in Louisville, Ky., December 20, 1904, at­tended Loretto Academy in Louisville and studied music with her mother. She studied voice and piano with private teachers, and after a year's study at a music conservatory in Indianapolis she accepted a position as music and art teacher in an East Chicago, Ind., high school. 
Miss Dunne won a competitive scholar­ship at the Chicago Musical College, grad­uated with honors and received the Gold Medal of Honor from the College. She moved to New York City and became the choice of Ziegfeld for the lead in "Show Boat." She was immediately recognized for her ability by the movies and signed a con­tract with the RKO Company. She was married in 1927 to Dr. Griffin, a New York dentist. 
Generation Club 
The Generation Club (composed, you will remember, of the current students who are sons of alumni) topped its year of ac­tivity with a banquet, the first annual, in the Capitol Restaurant in South Bend. 
They enjoyed, according to Scribe Bill Kennedy, "one of the finest steak dinners ever offered to a campus organization." Ed McCarthy handled the evening's program, which included "salutes to the different athletic teams of the club and the showing of the movies of the 1948 Purduc-Notre Dame football game." 
Another club scribe, John E. Armstrong, tells about the organization's suddenly-in­spired bowling team, an entry in one of the student bowling leagues: 
"Led by team captain Lee Sheridan, keg­lers Chuck Caulcy, Dick Sheridan, Jim Ad­ler, John Armstrong, Walt Clements, and Joe Harmon *bowIed over" the-majority of their spring competitors. Within the space of a few weeks this revitalized team had jumped from the subcellar to eleventh place in -the Blue League, copping 17 straight points along the way. The. Generation Club team was by far the most improved team in either league during the spring semester, and it continued to improve as the season progressed. 
"It is heartwarming to note here that four freshmen and three sophomores com­prised the team, all of which means that there are very nice prospects for the team in the next three years or so. It is entirely possible that the club will have a champion­ship contender within a year." 
Capt. Lee Sheridan of the Generation team won the trophy for the high single game, 236, bowled in the league this year. 
George C. Witteried, Jr., '49, Chicago, was the first president of the club and its ever-enthusiastic sparkplug. George served in addition as national vice-chairman of the Foreign Student Relief campaign. 
Contribufors Multipty 
A total of $233,817.87 had been contrib­uted to date in 1949 by aliunni and friends to the University of Notre Dame, it was an­nounced on May 17 by Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, cs.c , executive assistant to the president. 
Father Sweeney said that of the total amount contributed, $138,532.87 was given by Notre Dame alumni and $95,385 by non-alumni friends of the University. The 1949 total to date will be applied to the new $1,750,000 Science Building to be erected as soon as funds are avjulable. 

The $233,817.87 total- contributed to Notre Dame in 1949 is nearly three times that received by the University at the same point in 1948. 
Professors fo Europe 

Two faculty members of the Department of History will visit Europe this summer to carry out "on-the-spot research." 
Prof. William O. Shanahan will leave June 10 for a three-month tour of libraries and archives in England, France and Swit­zerland. His primary research findings will be incorporated in a book entitled "History of the Mercenary Army." tracing the role of "hired soldiers" in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. Another object of Dr. Shanahan's studies will be the German Prot­estant social movement in the late 19th cen­tury. 
Prof. John J. Hooker will begin his trip through England, France, and Belgium on July 1. His topic of research will be the economic and historical geography of 18th century Flanders. 
By EDWABD A. FISCHER. '37 

JACQUES MARITAIN gave two ad­dresses here March 23. He \-isited the cam­pus to attend a dinner marking the tenth anniversar>- of the Review of Politics. 
SUMMER SESSION PLANS are rising to the top now that the schoolyear has just about run out. Commencement exercises vrill be held June S; the summer session will be held from June 20 to August 12. 
JAMES FORRESTAL, former Secretar>­of Defense, presented the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the Univer­sity, with the National Militar>' Establish­ment's "Certificate of .Appreciation."' The ceremony was held in Washington. 
Father Cavanaugh received the certifi­cate for his work on the .Advisory Commis­sion on Scrs'ice Pay. He testified March 29 before the House Armed Ser\-ice Committee concerning his study of the nation's military-pay and pension systems. 
CAPT. ANTHONY L. DANIS, USN. com­mandccnt of the Nary ROTC unit at Notre Dame, is being transferred to Norfolk, Va., where he will be commanding officer of the Naval Recruiting Station. He will be succeeded here by Copt Thomas F. Con­ley, Jr., USN. commander of the Fleet Training Group at Pearl Harbor. 
AMERICA, National Catholic weekly magazine, carried the following in a col­umn headed Underscorings, .April 9, 1949: 
The Catholic Renascence Society will hold its annual meeting April 19-20 at Man­hattanville College of the Sacred Heart, Convent Ave. and W. 133 St., New York. Theme for the meeting will be "Catholic Values in a Disintegrating World." Speak­ers will include the Vcrj- Rev. Canon Paul Sobry, of the Catholic University of Lou-vain ("The Notion of Renascence"): Frank O'Malley, of the University of Notre Dame 
("Renascence of the Novel: From Bloy to Graham Greene" and "The Renascence of Poetry: From Hopkins to Gertrude von Lc Fort"); Helmut A. Hatzfeld, of the Catholic University of America ("Renascence of Lit­erary Criticism: From Bremond to Guar­dini"); John Pick [N. D. Clajs of '33], of Marquette University ("The Renascence in America Today"). The Catholic Renascence Society publishes "Renascence," a semi­annual magazine "devoted to a critical eval­uation of the Catholic Revival of Letters," 
lU 

UNIVERSITY 


TODAY 

edited by John Pick. The current issue is devoted to "The Growth of the French Re\"ival"; the forthcoming spring issue will feature critiques of Graham Greene and Evelyn Waugh. 
TWO MUBALS, depicting the Stations of the Cross, are being painted by Mrs. Eugene Kormendi, wife of the artist in residence. The paintings, each 75 feet long and {our feet high, are for the new church at Our Lady of the Lake seminary, Wa­wasee, Ind. 
REV. GEORGE SAUVAGE, C.S.C, of Rome, Procurator General of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, celebrated the fiftieth anniversar>' of his ordination as a Catholic priest, .^pril 1, in Sacred Heart Church, here. 
THREE WORKSHOPS —poetry, novel, and short fiction—will be held here dur­ing the Writers' Conference, June 27 until July 2. 
The staff for the conference will include: Miss lessamyn West, novelist and short story writer: John T. Frederick, editor, nov­elist, critic, and anthologist; John Fred­erick Nims, editor, poet, and critic- Rich­ard Sullivan, novelist, critic, and short story vmter: Henry T. Volkening, literary agent and critic, and the Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., short story writer, critic, and an­thologist. Father Ward and Professors Frederick, Nims and Sullivan are members of the Notre Dame faculty. 
The fees: Ten dollars for each work shop; twenty-five dollars for those who take all three. Rooms will be available at ten doUars for the session. Both men and women are invited. 
COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE, a new book designed to prepare young people for a successful marriage, has been written by the Rev. John A. O'Brien. It was published by the St. Anthony Guild Press, of Pater­son, N. J. 
PROF. MARSHAU W. BALDWIN, of New York University, author of "The Mediaeval Papacy in Action." has been named visiting professor in Mediaeval History for the 1349-50 schoolyear. 
He will fill the vacancy created by the appointment of Dr. Gerhart B. Ladner as an associate member of the Institute lor Advanced Study at Princeton. N. J. The announceaient wo* made by Dr. Bobeit Oppenheiner, director of the Institute. While on leave of absence from Notre Dame. Dr. Ladner will write o book en­titled "Befonnation: The Influence of an Early Christian Idea on Mediaeval and Renaissance Civilization." 
A NEW TYPE OF CATHODE (source of electrons), which for a fraction of a sec­ond will generate nearly six times as much power in a vacuum tube as the largest pow­er station in the United States, has been developed by Edward A, Coomes, professor of physics at Notre Dame. 
AN EXPERIMENT involving the use of Audio-Visual methods in legal education has been successfully completed in the College of Law. 
A WORKSHOP IN GUIDANCE to study problems and construct needed pro­grams of guidance in schools will be held from June 28 to July 26. The workshop will be designed to aid teachers in elementar)­and secondary schools, guidance workers, counselers and class sponsors, research work­ers in guidance and curriculum, supervisors and principals. 
DR. PHILIP E. MOSELY. as one of the men who argued with Vishinsky over the conference table, predicted that Vishin­sky will be "on the phone every half hour to keep V. M. Molotov posted." Dr. Mose­ly. professor of international relations of the Russion institute at Columbia Univer­sity, gave his own interpretation of the top-level shuffle in Russia while here for a lecture. 
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING has been accepted for membership in the Engineering Research Council of the Ameri­can Society for Enginering. Membership is 
Jacques Moritain at Notre Dome 

limited to colleges and universities that have engaged in engineering research for at least three years and have spent more than $10,000 on research. Here the engineers are doing research in aeronautical, civil, chemi­cal, electrical, and mechanical eneineering, and in metallurgy and engineering mechan­ics. Sixty projects are under investigation on the campus. 
A BOOK has been published containing the talks given at the first annual Natural Low Institute at Notre Dame. A second volume, covering the second Institute, is being prepared. Inquiries regarding the first book should be addressed to the Notre Dame Press. 
SOVIET S.\TELLITES, a study of poli­tics in Eastern Europe, has been published by the Review of Politics. The book was edited by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of the Review of Politics. 
SEVEN MEMBERS of the Chemistry de­partment attended the annual meeting of the American Chemical Society in San Fran­cisco, March 27 through the 30th. Several of the delegates from Notre Dame presented papers. 
THOMAS F. KONOP, dean emeritus of the College oi Law, was honored by stu­dents and faculty at a Communion-break­iast in the LaSalle Hotel. Dean Konop, dean here from 1923 until 1941. will retire in the near future. 
LASTING PEACE among nations can be attained only by a rebirth of Christian Char­ity, said the Bishop of Lourdes, the Most Rev. Pierre-Marie Theas, when he visited here. 
A BOOKLET, "Portrait of a Modem Sales Executive," has been written by Prof. Brooks Smeeton of the College of Com­merce. It was published by the National Federation of Sales. 
A PROTEST against the pending con­gressional bill designed to increase postal rates for books was filed by the University Library. 
CHEMICALS valued at $250 were do­nated to Notze Dame by H. B. Kin^nger, ostistant vice-president of Wilson Broth­ers, South Bend. 
Nine experts in various phases of world trade spoke at the second annual Foreign Trade Conference sponsored May 5 by the College of Commerce. Primary purposes of the Conference were to stimulate interest in foreign marketing, to discuss current prob­lems of world traders, and to perform the 
(Continued on Page 23) 

With Attorney General Clark at the South Bend dinnar were, left to right Harvey G. Foster, '39, head of the FBI in Indiana: Bev. John H. Mwplir. C.S.C vice-president o! the University; Attorney General Clark, Alex M. Campbell, assistant to the Attorney General-Mayor George A. Schock, '18, of South Bend, and John Hyland, president of the Low Club. 
Att orney oenera I Add resses Lawyers 
Less thas one-sixth of one percent of the 2,000,000 federal employees already checked during the recent loyalty test against Com­munists required further investigation, ac­cording to Attorney General Tom C. Clark. 
Attorney General Clark made this state­ment when he addressed the annual Hoynes Banquet, sponsored by University of Notre Dame law students to honor the graduating seniors of the Law School, on May 13. The banquet also was attended by attorneys and legal officials who attended a Practicing Law Institute held May 13 and 14 at Notre Dame. 
The attorney general told the group that of this small group who required further in­vestigation, some were dismissed and some resigned in the course of the inquiry. All others, he said, were cleared. 
Attorney General Clark told the students and attorneys that although there are those who say the government is "honevcombed with subversive elements .. . no witchhunt has blotted, or will blot, our record of equal justice to all. We are as determined to pro­tect the innocent as we are to prosecute the guilty." 
".America's destiny is clear," the attorney general observed. "It is to lead the world in humanity and kindness—in happiness and security—and in good will toward men. Anything less than the fulfilment of this holy mission would make for an unhappy America." 
He continued: "Two devastating world wars in our own generaion taught us that our heritage is not alone material things— not brick and mortar that go into buildings —not a vast body of land—not mountains or plains, cities or hamlets—not even gold, power or fame. It is something more than all these that we must defend, preserve and foster. It is that intangible something that is accepted as the real and true soul of our America, containing all of our priceless freedom and our aspirations. They arc man­kind's rights—human rights. 
"When our forefathers drafted the Con­stitution and the Bill of Rights, our basic documents of human rights, they determined to seek a secure foundation for the liberty of all the people. They wanted no tyranny. They had tired of it. They could bear the yoke no longer. They learned that every day was judgment day, and they quickly made the most of it." 
Attorney General Clark pointed out that our forefathers concluded that the "inalien­able rights of man are rooted, not in the State, not in a legislature, not in a majority, not in a dictatorship, nor any other human power. They were convinced that those rights stemmed from Almighty God. And thus the American system has its foundation of liberty and opportunity in something abiding and permanent. The divine rights of man were indelibly recorded in sacred documents. They became not merely a con­cept of government, but the bedrock upon which our government was established and upon which it rests. These rights are as in­separable from our democracy as is the heart of man from his body.' 
At the Practicing Law Institute, attended by nearly 400 attorneys and Notre Dame law students. Federal Judge Luther M. Swy­gert, '27, of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Indiana, discussed "Federal Rule of Civfl Procedure." Former Judge of the Appellate Court of In­diana Dan C. Flanagan, of Fort Wayne, reviewed "Indiana Pleading and Practice," while Notre Dame law professors William 
D. Rollison and Jack R. Miller dealt with "Will Clauses and Their Tax Conse­quences." 
Notre Dame law students John Witous and James White, both of Chicago, served as co-chairman of the Hoynes banquet. James Cassidy, law student from Peoria, 111., son of John E. Casidy, '17, served as co-ordinator for the Practicing Law Insti­tute and the banquet. John Hyland, of Penn Yan, N. Y., is president of the Notre Dame Law Club, sponsor of the banquet. 
20-year-old mother of Tommy Sexton, an ardent fan of Notre Dame. Another patient, 
John Joyce, '41, of Spartanburg, S. C, was also honored at the concert. Alunmi considering the sponsorship of a Band concert in their cities next year will 
llu. STUDENTS 
be interested in the new promotion booklet 
By MABTIN BROWNE 

Spring at Notre Dame is like spring any­where else in the worid, and different from spring anywhere else in the world. Alumni fortunate enough to visit the campus saw the magnolias in their perennial loveliness, heard the crack of the Softball bats over by the Chemistry building, and the voices of students singing May h>-mns at the Grotto after supper. 
« « « 

A Notre Dame family program was inau­gurated by the campus radio station WND during the spring. Six nights a week—Sat­urday is the exception—the President of the Universit>" leads the students in their devo­tion. In his absence, another administrative of the University substitutes. 
A sculpture by Donald H. Birren, a grad­uate student at Notre Dame, was awarded first prize in sculpture at the Northern In­diana Art salon. Entitled "Summa Logica," it is a carving, from plaster of paris, of t\vo WTCStlers in action. 
Bucks for Bengal 
On the lighter side, the Bengal Bouts, 

held annually during the Lenten season for 
the benefit of the Holy Cross missions in 
India, were an outstanding success both as 
entertainment and as a financial boost to 
the missionaries. They were once more 
under the supervision of Prof. Dominic Na­
politano, '32, who has, with the exception 
of his three years of service with the Na\-y, 
been associated with the bouts since they 
were begun in 1931. 
* • « 

Interesting people are always to be found at Notre Dame. A few who have come to notice recently are: 
Dr. Stephanos Kolupaila, distinguished Lithuanian scientist who specializes in hy­draulics, is teaching in the College of Engi­neering at Notre Dame. Dr. Kolupaila, during the World War II and the "cold war," had a number of dramatic escapes from both the Russians and the Germans, and for a time taught school "underground" in Lithuania. He has published over 200 scientific books or articles in ten different langauges. One volume is dedicated to his friend, Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
Dr. Jacques Maritain, renowned Catholic philosopher, delivered two talks at the Uni­versity in conjunction with the Mediae\'al Institute Lecture Scries and the banquet honoring the tenth anniversary of the Re­view of Politics. 
TODAY 

Evelyn Waugh, distinguished British nov­elist, charmed the student body with his spring lecture on three well-known English convert writers. And he delighted the inter­viewer for the Scholastic when he advocated the placing of "great tankards of wine or liquor at the end of the cafeteria lines in­stead of these teetotalling liquids." 
Music for Easter 

Easter vacation tours were undertaken by both the Band and the Glee Clubs. The Glee Club made a highly successful tour of seven Eastern cities, including New York and Pittsburgh. In the latter city, tickets were sold out five weeks in advance of the concert. 
The 55-member concert Band piled into t%vo buses and set off for the South playing 22 concerts in 13 cities in nine states. A memorable feature of this trip was a detour to Warm Springs, Ga., where the Band played for the patients at the Infantile Paralysis Foundation at the request of the developed this year under the direction of 
H. Lee Hope, director of the Band. This booklet contains suggestions for the local conunittees on staging, publicity, tickets, radio, advertising, complete press releases, programs, personnel and pictures. 
Honors for Talking 

Honors in many fields continued to pour into Notre Dame. The Notre Dame debating team, coached by Prof. Leonard Sommer, won the Midwest debating cham­pionship at the West Point National Invita­
' tion Debate Tournament held in the last week of April at the United States Military Academy Thirty-four teams, selected from more than 300 colleges and universities, competed in the tournament. Notre Dame also rated as the number one Catholic uni­versity debating team, second in the United States on individual speaker ratings, and fifth in the United States on the position which includes both speaker ratings and won-and-lost records. Frank Finn, senior of Denison, Tex., and William Carey, sopho­more, of Pittsburgh, Pa., represented Notre Dame at West Point. 
The Naval R.O.T.C. rifle team in the University, was named winner of the na­tional marksmanship championship among 
Four boys from one family ot Notre Dome at the aom* time. It doesn't happen often. Here are William F. Boemer. PIiJ>« '27, professor of philosophy, and four of liis sons wlio were students in the UniTorsity in 1948-49. Left to right Jos^ih. lames. William. Jr.. ond Thomos. [oe is finishing this lune, but Charles, fifth son. will eon* in os o freshman next Septem­ber to keep up the ottendonee record. 
naval units in the 1948-49 William Ran­dolph Hearst R.O.T.C. rifle matches. Don­ald J. Murphy, of New York, a student in the College of Commerce, won the individu­al marksmanship championship among naval units. 
Notre Dame students raised $22,817.20 toward the current Foreign Student Relief Drive conducted by the National Federation of Catholic College Students. This includes income from the Mardi Gras carnival, the car award donation, and a doUar-a-man drive. 
• • * 

F. A. Miller, president and editor of the South Bend Tribune has established an an­nual award in the Department of Journalism at the University. Known as the "F. A. Miller Prizes for Excellence in Practical Journalism" the $100 award is divided into five $20 prizes presented for excellence in makeup, news writing, feature writing, edit­ing and photography to Notre Dame jour­nalism students who publish "The Journal­ist," experimental newspaper sponsored by the department. The winners this year were Joseph Scheidler, Hartford City, Ind., Ray­mond Fitzgerald, Westfield, Mass., Lawrence Flaherty, Maumee, O., Harry Monahan, San Diego, Calif., and John McGoldrick, Forest Hills, N. Y. 
Art for Your Village 

Notre Dame art may yet grace your village. First prize in an architectural road­side sign contest, sponsored by the Te Deum International Society, was won by Willough­by Marshall, architecture student from Apa­lachicola, Fla. Entries by Vincent Boyle of Milford, Mich., were awarded both second and third prizes, and three other Notre Dame students received honorable mention for their designs. 
The proposed roadside signs will indicate to passing motorists the proximity of a Catholic Church. The winning designs will be submitted to the hierarchy of the Catho­lic Church for selection and approval, after which signs of stamped metal will be made and distributed for use by parishes through­out the United States. 
Note from U. S. 31 in the spring, as quoted from the South Bend Tribune of May 15: "The music department of the University of Notre Dame will present the Notre Dame Glee Club and the St. Mary's Glee Club at 8 p. m. Monday in Washing­ton Hall at Notre Dame. The program will be varied, including religious, classical ang popular numbers." 
And spring, as you will recall, brings many other things at Notre Dame, among them farewell banquets for departing sen­iors, recitals by departing seniors and in­numerable this - isn't - such -a - bad ­place - after - alls by departing seniors. But especially there are banquets. 
These are some samples of the spring tonic of 1949: 
The Notre Dame student branch of the 
The University Theater Pre«ents "Shadow and SnlMtanc*" 
Institute of Aeronautical Sciences had Ma­jor Alford J. (Al) Williams, 30-year vet­eran of aviation, as the chief speaker at its annual spring banquet. This was Al's second trip to Notre Dame. He was here in Janu­ary, 1935, along with Eddie Rickenbacker, Billy Bishop and Will Rogers, to address a conference on the advisability of .-itarting an aeronautical curriculum in the Univer­sity. . 
Harry G. Hogan, of Fort Wayne, ad­dressed the first annual banquet for faculty members and students of the Department of Political Science. 
The Notre Dame Symphonette orchestra of 55 men played its second concert of the year in Washington Hall on May 5. Di­rected by Prof. Charles A. Biondo, the or­chestra has been developed from last year's chamber group of 35 men. Featured in the spring concert was Mozart's Bassoon Con­certo with the solo by Andrew Fairlee of -•Atlanta, Ga. 
Charles E. Lienhart, Wakarusa, Ind., Lawrence Metcalf, Valley City, N. D., Roy 
J. O'Neill, Aurora, 111., and Richard Blau­meiser, Massillon, O., participated in the spring music recitals. 
The freshmen had heir "Spring Tonic" (dance, that is) in the campus Drill Hall on May 14. The week before the juniors had their Prom, and the week after the seniors had their Ball. 
Notre Dame in the spring! The world at its best. 
Entertainment for All 

Entertainment of high quality was offered by the University Theater. A program of three one-act plays was presented in March, under the direction of Prof. Francis J. Han­ley, and in May the outstanding drama, "Shadow and Substance," by Paul Vincent Carroll was brought to the stage of Wash­ington Hall under the same director. 
A new idea in entertainment on the cam­
pus was the presentation of a series of seven foreign films, arranged by Prof. Walter M. Langford, head of the Department of Mod­em Languages. Russian, French, German and Spanish films were shown in order that students might hear dialogue in the lan­guages they are studying, and enrich their understanding of the civilization and cul­ture of various countries. 
Students will again be able to matriculate at an American type university in Mexico this summer when the Department of Mod­em Languages sponsors the annual Notre Dame summer session at Mexico City Col­lege from June 15 to August 23. 
The "Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico," which will be conducted in con­junction with Mexico City College, will pro­vide interested students with a three-fold opportunity to develop a fluency in the Spanish language in the real-life atmosphere of that language; broadened education by-residence in a foreign land; and better inter-American understanding. 
Though planned primarily for Notre Dame students, the special summer session is open to other students, both men and women, provided they indicate a certain background in Spanish studies or a desire to pursue such studies through the oppor­tunity afforded by the Notre Dame Summer Session in Mexico. 
Student leadership had its special stand-up-and-take-a-bow day when the Scholastic appeared on May 20. The Scholastic itself picked four men for "the most significant single contributions to student activities and to the prestige of the University this year." And then the Scholastic announced the six Dome awards for the year, given by the yearbook to "graduating seniors for out­
(Continued on Page 12) 

ATHLETICS • • 
Lofe Sporf Results 

After spotting the Old Timers a 14-to-O lead in the first quarter, the prospective 1949 Notre Dame varsit)- football team came back to win a 49-to-21 victor>- in the an­nual Old Timers-Varsit)- game before 22,000 spectators in the Notre Dame Stadium. 
For the first time in eleven games—over a four-year span—the baseball team edged past the University of Michigan, 5 to 4, in ten innings. The Irish also jumped on three Universit>- of Chicago pitchers, including major league prospect Don Borowitz, for a 14-to-3 win and the track team registered a major upset by defeating the strong Uni­versit)' of Missouri team, 67 to 64, in a dual meet at Missouri. 
The tennis team split a pair of matches, defeating Western Reser\-e, but losing a 7-to-2 decision to Michigan State College. Two more wins were recorded by the golf team. The Irish beat St. Ambrose, 41 to 4, and Michigan State, 22 to 3. 
FOOTBALL 

Concern over capable performers at the guard and tackle positions continued to be the main source of worry for Coach Frank Leahy as his 1949 version of the Fighting Irish football • team closed' six weeks of spring practice with the annual Varsit>--01d Timers game in Notre Darae Stadium on May 14. 
Coach Leahy's chief cause for concern during the spring drills centered around the loss by graduation of such stalwart line­men as Bill Fischer, Marty Wendell, Jack Fallon, Frank Gaul and Ted Budynkiewicz. .And the gaps left in the Notre Dame line by the departure of the aforementioned stal­warts resulted in much experierantation by Coach Leahy and his staflf during spring practice. 
As the Varsity-Old Timers game wound up spring drills, Co-Captain Jim Martin manned one of the number one tackle berths after being switched from his end position, while Bob Toneff, who will move up from the freshman team next fall, apparently had a firm hold on the other tackle spot. Be­hind Martin and Toneff were Ralph Mc-Gehee and Gus Cifelli, both of whom won monograms last season. 
And at the guard positions, replacing Wendell and Fischer, were Frank Johnson, who saw considerable action last season, and Fred Wallner, whom Coach Leahy moved to guard from his erstwhile fullback position. Pressing these two for first team berths, however, were Steve Oracko and Bob Lally, two holdovers from last year's 
By BAYMOND I. DONOVAN. '42 

year's frosh team, also is expected to see a lot of action. 
Co-Capt. Leon Hart naturally has the in­side track for one end berth, while Bill FI>-nn and Doug Waybright from the 1948 squad, and freshman Jim Mutscheller and Chet Ostrowski are battling for the other end spot. Also to be kept in mind, however, are Icttermen Bill Wightkin and Ray Espe­nan, who have gained considerable experi­ence during their varsit)' carers. 
Walt Grothaus and Jeny Groom are erc­pected to share the center duties. In the backfield. Coach Leahy's problems arc not quite so acute as at guards and tackles. Re­placing Frank Tripucka at quarterback wik be Bob Williams, who understudied Trip during his sophomore year last season. Be­hind Williams, it looks now as though John Mazur, a sophomore next fall, will take his place as the No. 2 signal-barker. 
The rest of the first string backfield mighi well read something like this come fall — Bill Gay at left half, Emil Sitko at right half and Mike Swistowicz at fullback. And pressing the regulars for their jobs will be such seasoned gridders as Jack Landry, Lar­ry Coutre, Frank Spaniel and Ernie Zalejski, to mention only a few. Most promising among, frosh candidates, in the backfield are Billy Barrett and John Petitbon at the half­back berths and fullback Del Gander. 
That's the approximate picture at the end of spring practice. It is subject to change, of course, as fall drills resume late in Au­gust. If the tackles and guards improve beyond Coach Leahy's expectations, it could well be that the old argument about Michi­gan and Notre Dame will be started anew. 
BASEBALL 

"In like a Iamb, out like a lion." That time-honored phrase apparently sizes up the 1949 Notre Dame baseball team. After drop­ping the first three games of the season. Coach Jake Kline's Irish nine has displayed plenty of classy baseball to win 12 of its last 13 contests. 
The Klinemen took to the road to open their season and returned to the campus after absorbing 8-to-7 and 8-to-5 defeats at the hands of Indiana, the first defeat coming in a ten-inning game. After dropping the home opener to Iowa for their third straight loss, however, Notre Dame rebound­ed with a 4-to-3 win over the Hawkeyes and then on an Easter road trip broke even by downing Ohio State, 4 to 1, and losing to the Terre Haute Phillies. 5 to 3. 
In the next eleven games, the Irish dropped only two, a 9-to-8 loss to Michigan and a 7-to-5 defeat at the hands of Michi­gan State. Wins over this eleven-game period include -two- over- Wisconsin^ 11 to-7 and 7 
varsity. Paul Bums, another member of last 
Athletic Director Krause (left) and Head Football Cooeh LeokT 
to 6, two over Minnesota, 8 to 6 and 4 to 0, two over Illinois, 6 to 1 and 5 to 1, and an 8-to-2 victory over the University of Chica­go, a 3-to-2 win over Western Michigan and a lO-to-5 drubbing of Northwestern. 

Coach Kline, fairly well set in pitching, was faced at the beginning of the season with the twofold task of uncovering capable catchers and outfielders. The former he did uncover in junior Dick Maher, son of West-em Michigan coach Charlie Maher, and sophomore Tom Boland. The outfield, after much experimentation, has been handled capably by Tom Martin, Don Grieve and Co-Capt. Ray Petrzelka, for the last three years regular Notre Dame first baseman. 
Around the infield, veteran Gene Lavery has had things pretty much his own way at third base, Co-Capt. Benny Kozlik has been in the lineup all season at second, while sophomore Dick Giedlin ousted Petrzelka from his regular first base post. Giedlin, who has attracted much major league attention, currently is the leading Irish hitter and fea­tures a long hit ball. At shortstop. Coach Kline has had more than his share of trou­ble. Regular shortstop Pete Koblosh has been able to play only part time due to in­jury, and his place is filled alternately by Emil Garofalo and Joe Judge. 
As heretofore mentioned, the pitching staff has been very steady. Coach Kline has been able to call with success upon veterans Walt Mahannah, Jack Campbell, Dick Smullen and Tony Lipton as starters, while sophomore Bob Nemes has proved valuable both as a starter and in relief chores. 
TR4CK 

After a successful indoor season. Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Handy's Notre Dame track team opened the outdoor campaign by split­ting a pair of duel meets. 
The Irish tracksters opened the outdoor season by losing an 85-to-66 decision to arch-rival Michigan State, this year consid­ered one of the strongest teams in the United States. After participating in the Drake Relays, in which no team title is given, the Notre Dame team returned home to dispose of the University of Pittsburgh, 86 2/3 to 44 1/3, in its only other meet to date. 
Coach Handy also has had his share of trouble with injuries. Hurdler Bill Fleming, considered one of the top collegiate hur­dlers, has been hampered periodically with an ankle injur>-. Pole Vaulter Jim Miller probably is out for the rest of the season as a result of injuries suffered at the Drake Relays. And javelin tosser John Murphy was injured shortly after the outdoor season opened, thus putting three of Coach Han­dy's key men out of action. 
Outstanding performers for the Irish, however, have included Bob Smith and Steve Provost in the dashes, Fleming and Bob McDavid in the hurdles, Pat Kenny and Paul Schwetschenau in the middle dis­tances. Bill Leonard and Jim Kittell in the mile, and Jim Murphy in the two-mile. In the field events, John Helwig broke the Notre Dame outdoor record for the shot put against Pittsburgh. Miller, before his injury. 
had vaulted 13'9", Ray Espenan and Tom Worthington have shared the burden in the broad jump, Fleming in the high jump and Helwig in the discus. 
TENNIS 
Four monogram men are forming the nu­cleus of Coach Walter Langford's Notre Dame tennis team as the Irish won three out of their first five matches. 
Juniors Gene Biittner and Bob David and Bart O'Brien and Jim Rodgers are the mon­ogram men around whom Coach Langford has built his current court team. Conspicu­ous by their absence, due to graduation, arc the Evert brothers, Jimmy and Jerry, who paced last year's strong team. 

In addition to the aforementioned mono­gram winners. Coach Langford is counting on help from sophomores Jim Hennessy, Bob Hocne and Al Tonti, and seniors Ralph Witucki and Ray Keys. 
The Irish opened their season with a 5 to 4 victory over Purdue, but were blanked by Northwestern, 7 to 0, in the home opener. After defeating Western Michigan, 5 to 4, and Detroit, 7 to 2, the Notre Dame netters journeyed to Michigan to drop a 7 to 2 de­cision to the strong Wolverine squad. 
GOLF 

Father George Holderith's Notre Dame golf team opened the season with two straight victories before dropping the next two matches to strong Big Ten opposition. 
The Irish golfers started the season right by drubbing Washington University of St. Louis, 20 to 7, and then swept through Wis­consin, 17/j to 9/2, and Purdue, 17 to 10. Indiana and Northwestern upset the apple cart, however, with respective 14ys-to-12!/4 and 15^-10-11/2 defeats of the Irish. 
Five monogram winners form the nucleus of the 1949 Irish links team. Veteran George Stuhr is captain of the squad and is sub­stantially aided by monogram men Ray Burian, Paul Hudak, Art .^rquilla and Jack Quinn. 
The outstanding newcomer to the team has turned out to be sophomore Tom Veech. Holdovers from last year's team, al­though not monogram men, include John Rolfs and Maurie White. 
Foofball Extensions 

Extensions of three football contracts for Irish grid teams have been announced re­cently. All three series are for two years and run through the 1950 and 1951 seasons. 
The three series which have been ex­tended include games against the University of Iowa, the University of Southern Cali­fornia, and Michigan State College. 
Athletic Director Krause 

Edward W. (Moose) Krause, head bas­ketball coach who for the past year had served as assistant athletic director, was elevated to the post of director of athletics at Notre Dame on March 22. 
Weight Star Halwig 

Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., presi­dent of Notre Dame, said that the move had been contemplated for some time and was made on the recommendation of Frank Leahy, Irish football coach, who had been serving as director of athletics. 
Father Cavanaugh released in part the letter of recommendation which Coach Leahy sent to the Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c, vice-president of Notre Dame, and to members of the faculty board in control of athletics. The letter, in part, read: 
"It has been a distinct honor for me to hold down the positions of director of ath­letics and head coach of football during the last eight years, but it is my firm conviction that with the increase in all athletic prob­lems, it would be prudent to have these two important positions handled by sepa­rate individuals. As we both know. Coach Krause has proven conclusively during the last year that he is thoroughly capable of representing this institution, in a most suc­cessful manner, as the director of athletics." 
Father Cavanaugh,' in making the an­nouncement, said: "We at Notre Dame have always felt privileged in having the services of Frank Leahy. To us, he is the finest foot­ball coach in the country. He is a leader possessed of sterling mental and moral char­acter. He had in addition served his alma mater exceptionally well as director of ath­tetics. As a result of performing the duties associated with both positions, he has more often than not had to put in working days lasting 16 to 18 hours. We have now come to the realization that too much has been demanded of Frank Leahy. We are also happy that Frank has recommended Edward Krause to assume the position of director of athletics. Ed Krause has been schooled by-Frank Leahy in the Notre Dame way of do­ing things. We know he will be an able successor to Frank as director of athletics." 
Krause, a 1934 graduate, joined the Notre Dame staff as line coach in 1942. When George Keogan died in 1943, he took over as head basketball coach. 
TAe Students Today 
(Continued from P^ e 9) 

standing service to the Universit)' and to the student body," Two men received both awards. They are Louis J. Bums, Washington, D. C, na-
Emest I. McCuUougfa 

tional chairman this year of the Foreign Student Relief campaign (which will bring in close to $250,000, of which $22,817.20 from Notre Dame), as well as captain of the fencing team, and Francis F. Finn, Deni-son, Texas, president of the Debate Club, who all through his college career has achieved top national ranking in debate, discussion and extemporaneous speaking. 
Other Scholastic awards went to: Frank Cronan, Waterbury, Conn., the man behind campus radio station WND in its first t%vo years of highly successful operation; and to Ernie Huffman, Braddock, Pa., bowling im­pressario of the campus, who in 1947 formed the Kampus Keglers, an organization com­pletely student in management now number­ing 36 campus clubs. Huffman also organ­ized a Notre Dame bowling team and made it a member of the Midwestern Intercolle­giate Bowling Conference. 
The campus organization which contrib­uted most notably to student life in 1948-49, the Scholastic said, was the Young Chris­tian Students, generally known as the YCS, whose units sparked many a worthwhile achievement. 
Other Dome awards went to Ernest J. McCuUough, Alberta, Canada, magna cum laude graduate, president of the Wranglers, member of the University S)Tnphonette, an editor of the Juggler, captain of the track team; to John P. Walker, Elgin, III., editor of the Dome in 1947, president of the Com­merce Forum, secretary of the Student Council; to Leo A. Bamhorst, Indianapolis, outstanding basketball player, president of the Monogram Club; to Kevin P. Harrigan, Brooklyn, N. Y., president of the Student Council and president of the Liturgy Club. 
A total of 106 babies, including three sets of twins, were bom during the schoolyear into the families of married Notre Dame war veterans, according to the latest avail­able statistics, supplied by the Married Vet­erans Welfare Council. This unique organ­ization, of which Rev. Alfred Mendez, cs.c , is the moderator, came into existence last October and has since enjoyed extraor­dinary success. 
The Council raised approximately $2,500 in the course of the year to give the stork a bit of financial aid when he needed it to finance his frequent trips. The Council has also aided vets in housing, in job-finding and by organizing a food cooperative, study clubs, bridge clubs and various social func­tions. 
There were 507 married veterans in the Notre Dame student body during the 1948­49 year. Of these, 177 will be graduated in June and August. It is anticipated that there will be no more than 400 married vets here come next September. 
Boy Leodership Program 

A comprehensive indoctrination in the principles and methods of youth leadership will be presented at a Summer School of Boy Leadership to be conducted by the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Colum­bus, July 1, 2 and 3, at Notre Dame. 
Advance registration or further informa­tion may be obtained by contacting Rev. John J. Burke, c.s.c... business manager,of Notre Dame, or John J. Contway, M.A., '26, executive director. Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau, New Haven, Conn. 
St of ue of Christ 

The largest statue of Christ in the United States, known as "Christ, Light of the World," was dedicated in April in front of the National Catholic Welfare Conference building in Washington, D. C. The statue was created by Eugene Kormendi, formerly of Hungar>-, now resident artist at Notre Dame. Some 60 sculptors submitted mod­els to the Liturgical Arts "Society before Mr. Kormendi was selected for the commission. 
Cast in bronze, in three parts, the fin­ished statue represented a year and a half of work on the part of Mr. Kormendi. It was presented to the NCWC as a gift by Our Sunday Visitor, weekly Catholic paper. Readers of Our Sunday Visitor had con­tributed $115,000 for the statue over a pe­riod of time. 
Jim Costitt Dies 
Alumni everywhere will hear with sorrow of the sudden death of James 1&, Costin. 5S< sports editor of the "South Bend Tribune" and sports columnist for "Our Sunday Visitor." Jim. while he never wos a student on the campus, was one of the school's most devoted friends over many years. He is survived by his wife and three children. 

Notre Dame Books 
Live a New Life (Doubleday & Co.) by David Guy Powers, '33. 
Those who remember the vital personality of Dave Powers when he was head cheer­leader and the sparkplug of other campus activities will have little difficulty in attrib­uting the sparkling quality of a full life which keys this book from his active career. 
Coltmibia and Cambridge universities supplemented Notre Dame training, and Dave b now in the English Department of Queen's College. But his national identity steins from his popularity as a sales consul­tant for many large industries and advertis­ing agencies, and a lecturer on personality and sales development. Some measure of his success is indicated by his status as instruc­tor of the instructors of Dale Camegie's famous Institute. 
' Packed with illustrations of success for­mulae from the world's secular leaders of the present and the past, the book is a stimulus to the qualities of material leader­ship. The book is clearly outlined, pattcmea for both absorbing and transmitting ideas. 
—J. E. A. 

The Church Today — Growth or Decline. By Emmanuel Cardinal Suhard. Fides Publishers, 325 Lincoln Way West, South Bend 1, Ind. $1.25. 
This book, now in the second edition with a revised translation, is the Pastoral Letter which has had such a tremendous impact on American Catholic thinking. It has been acclaimed in the pages of Commonweal, Integrity, America, Today, Concord, Orate Fratres and in dozens of other Catholic pe­riodicals. Reviewers call it one of the most important docimients of our age. Well over ten thousand copies are now in print. 
The book has added interest for Notre Dame men because its translation from the French is the work of a Notre Dame pro­fessor of history, James A. Corbett. Too, the publisher of the book in this country. Fides Publishers, is a "Notre Dame organ­ization," made up of Notre Dame alumni interested in the lay apostolate. 
Coocfr Bob McBride 

Bob McBride, star Notre Dame lineman of 1941, '42, and '46, has been named as a new tackle coach for.the Notre Dame foot­ball team. McBride replaces Ed (Moose) Krause, who gave up his football duties to devote full time to the directorship of ath­letics and his basketball coaching. 
McBride, who coached at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago before assuming his new duties, won the Byron V. Kanaley Prize for 1947 which is awarded to the sen­ior monogram winner exemplary as a stu­dent and leader of men. 
A native of Logan, O., McBride spent 122 days in a German prison camp during Worid War IL 
ALUMNI 
Akron 
The dub presented its first Akron Notre Dame Man of the Year award to MURRAY POWERS, former club president and managing editor of the "Beacon-Journal," at its UND Night celebration. 
Officers elected at the dinner arc PAUL A. BERTSGH, president for the third consecutive year; RICHARD BOTZUM, vice-president; WILLIAM AHERN, secretary; and EDWARD G. BARTCII, treasurer. 
Rev. ALFRED F. MENDEZ, C.S.C, professor of Spanish, told of his work as advisor of the more than 500 married students at N.D. He also discussed the mission work being done in the Southwest by the priests of Holy Cross. 
A. A. HILKERT, long-time treasurer of the club, also spoke. 
Ann Arbor, Mich. 
An informal gathering of Notre Dame men and ad­herents in the Ann Arbor area was held in the New­man Club basement of St. Mary's chapel on April 
26. Arrangements were made by JOHN L. DEN­NISTON, '45, University of Michigan law student, with staunch support from ARTHUR STAGE, '96, editor of the local paper. Prof. JOHN H. SHEE­HAN, head of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame, spoke, as did Mr. Stace. John Dennis-ton presided. 
A Notre Dame campus movie, as well as high­lights of the 194S football season, were shown. 
Atlanta 
The club members cooperated with Mrs. Andrew Fairlie of Atlanta in supporting the appearance of the Notre Dame Band in Atlanta on April 16, Easter Saturday. Mrs. Fairlie, whose son plan's in the Band, generously volunteered to underwrite the expense of having the Band in Atlanta and she worked with unending zeal to make the concert the success it was. Procceiis went to the Free Cancer Home. 
Band members were housed for three nights in the homes of Atlanta residents, some of whom were of course alumni. On April 15, the Band traveled from Atlanta to play a special concert at the Warm Springs Foundation. 
Baltimore 
The club held its UND Night banquet at the Emerson Hotel. Among the notable guests present were the Most Rev. Lawrence J. Shehan, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Baltimore; Ver>- Rev. Francis X. Talbot, S.J., president, Loyola College; Mayor Thomas D'AIcsandro, Jr.; Walter R. Heath, area rent director: William F. Laukaitis, chairman, >far>-­land State Committee for the Resettlement of Dis­placed Persons, and Oliver C. Winston, executive director. Housing Authority of Baltimore City. 
Two of Notre Dame's most famous alumni, ED­WARD M. O'CONNOR, '32, Commissioner, Presi­dent's Commission for Displaced Persons, and TIGHE E. WOODS, '33. Federal Housing Expe­diter, made national polic>- addresses which were broadcast over radio station WCBM. 
Following the addresses, new club officers were installed. Newly elected President FRANKLYN G. HOCHREITER, '35, made the acceptance speech for himself and FRANK J. MURPHY, '36, vice-presi­dent; HARRY E. STORCK, Jr., '42, secretary, and DANIEL G. SULLIVAN, '30, treasurer. 
Retiring President Dr. ROY O. SCHOLZ, '35 was presented with a scroll naming him the outstanding 
N.D. man in the Maryland area. 
The club was one of the sponsors of the Solemn Pontifical Vespers and Benediction in commerora­tion of the 300th anniversary of the Maryland Act of Religious Toleration. 
 CLUBS 

The gold medal presented by the Balti­more Qub. (See club news). 
The club has received considerable acclaim for its annual presentation of a large trophy for out­standing Catholic press work in high schools. A medal is also being presented to an outstanding stu­dent in each of the four Catholic high schools in the city for activities in any non-athletic field. Each medal is accompanied by a cosh award. 
—HARRY E. STORCK, JR. 

Boston 
The club celebrated UND Night at the Har^'ard Club. Chairman AL BIRMINGHAM had arranged for dinner, preceded by a pleasant social hour, in the Library Room. President JOHN V. MOR.^N discussed the Alumni Fund, particularly the ncwly­suggestcd "Budget Giving." He also announced that "The Catholic Boy" was now being edited from Notre Dame by Father FRANK GARTLAND, G.S.G., a brother of our own JOE GARTLAND. 
President Moran presented, on behalf of the Bos­ton Club, a special gift of an onyx desk set to former president HUGH BLUNT in recognition of his services to the club. Hugh Blunt was the moving spirit behind the reorganization of the Boston Club following the war and became the first president jn the new* era. 
The guest of honor and principal speaker was Dr. CHARLES A. HUFNAGEL, '37, who at present is an Arthur Tracey Cabot Fellow in Surgical Re­search at Han-^ard Nfedical School and an associate in surgery at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. His work has been so outstanding that last year the United States Junior Chamber of Commerce selected Dr. Hufnagel as one of the nation's ten outstanding young men of 1948. It was rather fitting that tfus leader in scientific research should speak to us on the theme for Universal Notre Dame Night "Sci­ence and Notre Dame." Following the talk Presi­dent Moran awarded a scroll and gift to Dr. Hufnagel as Boston's Notre Dame Man of the Year. .An interesting question and answer period followed led by TOM KINNEALLY. AL AfULRANEY plaved the piano for a little songfest at the end of the' evening.—JACK NYE DUFFEY 
Buffalo 
The newly-elcctcd ofiicen of the club are DAN SHEEDY, '37, president; GEORGE W. FERRICK, '41, vice-president; JOHN P. SHINE, '48, secre­lar>-; and CARLOS H. FRANK, '33, treasurer. 
The new directors include J. PAUL SHEEDY, '37, ROBERT J. NAGEL, '40, JOHN P. SHINE, and MAURICE F. QUINN, '38. 
MAURICE QUINN was in charge of the lun­cheon honoring the basketball team prior to the Ca­nisius game in Febniary. Coach MOOSE KRAUSE 
.^ .0^.0^ 
and HERB JONES, business manager of athletics, helped to make the luncheon a 1»s success. 
A new feature of the club is the organizatian of a women's auxiliary to enable the wives and fuoilics to become better acquainted. Plans include a square dance to be held in May and a family picnic ill June.—JOHN P. SHINE 
Calumet Region 
Officers elected at the April 28 meetii^ of the club «rere JIM GLENN, '3S, of Whiting, president; BILL RILEY, '38, of East Chicago, vice-pnsideat; JIM PimCELL, '42, of Gary, secretary; and DICK SCHAUB, '39, of Hammond, treasurer. Retiring president is DAN LYNCH, '23, of Hammond. 
The program was key-noted by JOE DONAHUE of South Bend and TIM GALVIN, '16, of Ham­mond. Rev. ROBERT U. SWEENEY, C.S.C., ex­
•ecuti\e assistant to the president, explained the par-pose, organization, and aspirations of the Notre Dame I'oundation. 
Entertalmnent was furnished by the showing of high-lights from the 1918 football season, with com­mentary by Father Sweeney.—JIM FURCELL 
Capital District 
The Capital District and Schenectady clubs cele­brated UND Night with a diimer meetii^ at Dun­can's Inn. Fifty-three alumni and friends attended. CHARLES E. WELSH, president of the Schenec­tady club, was toastmaster. Guests at the speakers table included the Rev. Benjamin Kuhn, O.F.M., head of the Department of Mathematics of Siena College, Rev. Maums FiOgerald, O.FM., Siena College, BROTHER ERIC, C.S.C., and BROTHER PIERRE, CS.C , of Vincentian Institute. 
Father Kuhn gave a splendid talk praising the scientific accomplishments at Notre Dame. 
JOSEPH CONLON met with Dean JAMES E. Mc­versal Night and was assisted by ANDREW M. PINCKNEY and Dr. BERNARD DUFFY. 
On Mar. 24 in the Ten Eyck Hotel, Albany, EDDIE ECKERT, LUKE KELLY, FRANK MA­HAR, ANDY PINCKNEY, JIM DRISLANE, BILL FITZPATRICK, JOHN CAMPBELL, BILL CAS­AZZA, PETER BUCHEIM, JACK CASAZZA and JOSEPH CONLON met with Dean JAMES £. Mc-C-UITHY prior to his talk to members of the Advertising Qub of Albany.—JOSEPH W. CONLON 
Central Illinois 
New developments in the tcaclui^ of tfae arts and sciences at Notre Dsme were ex[^iied by Rev. EUGENE BURKE, CS.C , at the dinner in the St. Nicholas Hotel, Sprin^eld, cel^niting UND Night. He stressed the growth of work in funda­mental research at the Univeisitir. 
Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DDCON related several humorous anecdotes of his football experiences. 
Bishop William A. O'Connor,, of dte Springfield dificcse, said that the "spirit of Notre Dame doesn't mean enthusiasm over athletic exploits, but rather a maturity of view and a way of life that is exemiJarr. to the whc^ world." 
MICHAEL SEYFRIT served as master of ccrc­mooies. About 90 dub membezs and giacsts attended.. 
Central New York 
Biggest yet—best yet—about teUs the story of the cel^ration of the ^t h anniversary of the foumfii^ of the club on UND Night. Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, CS.C , bead of the Department of Religicm and rector of Farley Hall, spoke of the "Spirit of Notre Dame—^Its Achievements in the Fidd of Sdence." Over one hundred alumni, their wives and friends attended tfae ^sner at the Uio­versity Clob, beautifully decorated in the blue and gold of^ Our Lady. 
FRANK TRIPUCKA gave the dub the inside on next ^-ear's elcv-cn. 
The club honored six sur\-iving Notre Daine men who attended the original Notre Dame Night in Syiacuse in 1924. They included: JAMES H. HUX­FORD, LEO D. KELLEY, WILLIAM F. SULLI­VAN, Jr., J.ACOB E. ECKEL. EMIL C. SCHON­LAU and GEORGE L. KINNEY. \V!dou-s of two other founders were also honored—^Mrs. GEORGE 
B. G- KELLEY, mother of the ne**' prexy, and Mrs. PHILIP GOOLEY. Father Hesburgh's mother and father, three sisters, their husbands and his brother also attended the dinner. 
The dinner brought a climax to six weeks of inten­six-e publicity- concerning Notre Dame. Frank Tri­pucka was heard over two local radio stations daring his stay in Syracuse. 
HENRY M. KIRK, Jr., scr\ed as dinner chair­man, assUted by GEORGE W. O'HARA, Jr. 
New officere for '49-'50 were installed: DANIEL 
A. KELLEY, president; H. JUSTIN CORCORAN was re-elected vice-president; Rev. FRANK J. HAR­RISON rcpkices Rev. JOHN HARRISON, his broth­er as chaplain, and JOHN H. TERRY, secretar>­treasurrr. LEO D. KELLEY continues as the Noire Dame Foundation Chairman for the Centml New-York Club. 
AcU\-ities for the year started off with a bang and' raffle. Two tickets to the Noire Dame-N.Y.U. basket­ball game were presented to a SjTacusan named James 0*SuIlivan, and JACK MULDERIG received a duplicate award for selling the winning ticket. A luncheon was held at the Liederkranz Club on the day of the drawing and another board of directors meeting was held there to select new officers on .April 7. 
Spring has taken its toll in marriages with BOB TAYLOR, *48, joining the ranks of the benedicts on April 18, followed by BOB (RUPE) McAULIFFE, LL.B., *49, stepping off on April 21 with the as­sistance of his brother, JACK, '39, retiring urexy of the C.N.Y. club. JACK OWEILL started the ball rolling on Jan. 8 when he w*ent to the nltar. Father JACK HARRISON has been transferred to Cortland. 
Plans are now under way for the summer golf tourney and the "sports round-up." —JOHN U. TERRY 
Chicago 
More than 450 alumni, their families and friends attended the UND Night dinner at the Drake Hotel. Chairman LUKE J. TIERNAN, '37, intro­duced PAUL R. CONAGHAN, '29, toastmaster. Rev. THOMAS BRENNAN, C.S.C., represented the University. Msgr-John K. Cart%\Tight, rector of St. Matthew's Cathedral, Washington, D. C , gave the principal address, "Responsibility for Freedom." The invocation was given by Rev. WILLIAM MAHO­NEY, O.P., '38. 
Dr. EUGENE GUTH. director of the high poly­mrr ph>-5ics laboratory at Notre Dame was presented the second annual No:rc Dame faculty award by the club. The presentation was made by JOHN L. BUCKLEY, president. 
The award, inaugurated last year, is made for outstanding contributions to the field of learning. Last year's recipient Avas Prof. JAMES A. REY­.NIERS, director of LOBU.ND. 
Dr. Guih, who joined the faculty in 1937, coming from the University of Vienna, is an authority on the de\'elopment of synthetic rubber and cellulose products. His research in the high poI>-mer phj-sics laborator}*, the first such laboratory* in the U. S., is concerned primarily with the study of the ph>-sical properties of rubber and of plastics. 
Cincinnati 
Our cocktail party for the students w-as held on Saturday, April 16, at the Hotel Alms. Approximate­ly 50 members attended. BILL GILAFE and his committee were given an inspiring turnout; this vas one o[ the largest affairs that we have had in some time. 
On April 25. the UND Night celebration chair-manned by J.\CK BRODBERGER was held at the Hyde Park Golf and Country Club. Highlights of the evening were the presentation of the Notre Dame club banner by JOE MORRISSEY to the retiring officers. BOB LEONARD, JOH.V COT­TLVGHAM, J.AMES R. McCAFFERTY and WIL­LIA.\I MIDDE.NDORF. The elections were held and JOH.N COTTL\GH.AM was elected president, and will be assisted by BOB BURKE as wee-president, BILL GRAFE as treasurer, and BER­N.ARD N. BROCKMAN as Mcretary. 

Honored guest* at the Central New York UND Night obierronce were charter member* of the dub. Left to righL bottom row. George F. Ennef. Jacob E. EdceL and Emil C. Schenlaw. Top row. VnUiam F. Sullivan. Ir., lames H. Huxford and Leo D. Kelley. The dub observed its 25th onniversary on UND Ifight 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The first meeting since the election was held May 10 at the Hotel Alms. The new officers offidally took over their duties. Platis ate presently being completed for the annual picnic to be held sometime in June under the general chairmanship of BOB McCAFFERTY. A further pbn is a swim­ining party for sometime in late August. 
B. N. BROCKMAN, Jr. 
Cleveland 
The club held its annual Communion-breakfast in honor of K. K. ROCKNE on March 27. Mass was celebrated by Msgr. Walsh, who built his whole sermon around Rockne and Notre Dame. About 350 attended the Mass and breakfast. JOHN IGOE did a splendid job as master of ceremonies. Other speakers were JOHN BUTLER and Father MI­CHAEL MORI.ARITY. The principal address was given by PAT M.ANION, who stressed the impor­tance of including the principles of Christ in the present day negotiations for world peace. 
The Easter dance was held at the Hotel Statler in the Euclid Ballroom on the 18th of April. The affair was informal and the attendance was gratify­ing. Students home for the holiday were present. BILL GRIFFY did a splendid pob as chairman of the dance. He was assisted on the program by SCOTT SHEEDY and BILL MULLIGAN. 
UND Night was also the occasion of the annual business meeting and the election of officers. The new officers for the coming year: BOB STACK, president; JACK ELDER, wee-president; BILL GRIFFY, secretan" and BOB DOWD, treasurer. 
The >-early reports of the \-arious business com­mittees were nuide as follows: Job-placement and Scholarship by CLAYTON LEROUX, Religious Vo­cations by JOE HANRATTY, Catholic Charities by KARL MARTERSTECK, Notre Dame Foundation by NORMAN McLEOD. 
The club's first annual award for the outstanding Notre Dame man of the year was given by unani­mous i-ote to Father PAT PEYTON, C.S.C, for his work on the Family Rosary Hour and his con­tribution towarfls worM peace. 
—ANTHON-Y E. L.WELLE 
Columbus 
Alumni and friends of the Uni«rsity attended the first local annual dinner ever held in Columbus to celebrate UND Night. .Appro.<ciniately 100 gathered to hear an inspirational address by REV. JOHN MUR­PHY, C.S.C., vice-president. Lewis Clemmem, di­rector of engineering of the Crosley Radio Corp., gavie a fine address on the subject of teleraion, which was much in keeping with the University's 1949 theme of science. 
DONALD R1 HAVERIC K WTIS toastmaster and 
chairman, and was ably assisted by JOHN MUR­
PHY, JOSEPH RYAN, LOUIS MURPHY, Dr. 
THOMAS HUGHES and EDWARD G. CANT­
ED CANTWELL, local Foundation head, was pre­sented with a scroll naming him the Noire Dame man of the >Tear for this area. 
The oHicets tor 1949 were installed and are as foUows: Dr. THO.MAS HUGHES, president; JOHN 
R. MURPHY, vice-president; DONALD R HAV­ERICK, secretary; PAUL S. DOUTHITT, treasurer. 
The new Board of Governois consists of the offi­cers and Dr. THOXUS DUNN, HARRY NESTER JAMES EICHENLAUB, Dr. QUIN DORGAN and THOMAS SHEEHAN. Several enjoj^ble affairs are scheduled for the remainder of 1949 under the di­recuon of JOHN R. MURPHY, program chairman. 
—DO.NALD R. HAVERICK 
Connecticut Valley 
President BILL REID and his cabinet were swept into office for a second term at the annual elec­tions of the Connecticut Valley Club on April 25, UND Night. The election and attending ceremonies were held at the City Club, in Hartford. 
Riding in on the landslide with President Reid were vice-presidents JIM FLAHERTY and JOE HOLBACH, which gives the club more top brass than a 1918 Ford radiator. Other repeaters were DON FOSKETT as secretary and TIM MURPHY as treasurer. There is a nmior hereabouts that Tim has been club treasurer since Lindbergh flew the Atlantic. Mr. Murphy made his annual plea that the post be given lo somebody else for a change, but his oratory was futile and he was returned to office over his protests and almost over his dead body. The election, seriously, is a tribute to Tim and the marvelous contribution he has made to the club and to Notre Dame. 

The Board of Governors was returned to office intact: TOM CURRY, FRANK D. AHERN, JOHN LYNCH, and CHARLIE McDONOUGH. 
Following a sumptuous dinner and the election, the main part of the evening was devoted to the Notre Dame Foundation and the dub's aims and responsibilities in connection with it. A great deal of enthusiastic dbcussion ensued, indicating that local participation will continue on a high level. 
—IX)X FOSKETT 

Dallas 
UND Night was celebrated one week early by the club with a meeting at the Lakewood Country Club on April 18. 
Most important business of the evening was elec­tion of officers for the coming year. ARTHUR SIMPSON, chairman of the nominations committee, solved this very simply by announcing that the com­mittee recommended the re-election of the incum­bent officers—ED HAGGAR, president; SAM A. VaXG, Jr., and JIM CROW, vice-presidents; GEORGE BECKER, treasurer; and JOH.N' MOR­AN, secretary. 
More than 30 members attended the meeting, including several ncw^ arri\*als in town. To iinanctt die club's proposed scries of activities, including an extensive program centering around the S.M-U. game next December, the club voted to assess dues of $9.99 yearly for each member. 
President Haggar outlined some of the club's plans, which include a summer party, a raffle of 
S.M.U.
 game tickets and a big rally prior to the 

S.M.U.
 game. The visit of FATHER JOHN J. CAV.\NAUGH, CS.C , on Feb. 23 was the occasion for the largest turnout in the club's history. 137 alumm and dis­tinguished guests attended the banquet given in Father Ca\*anaugh's honor in the Baker Hotel, Dis­tinguished is the word for the guests, who included Bishop Augustine Danglma>T, Mayor Temple, rep­resentatives of S.M.U., Baylor University, the Uni­versity of Texas and the Dallas School S>'stcm in addition to numerous Dallas civic and business leaders. Visitors from Houston who sat at the speakers table included Trustee GEORGE STRAKE and R. COXROY SCOGGINS, '24, state deputy of the Knights of Columbus. Toastmastcr for the occasion was JIM SWIFT, Texas Governor for the Notre Dame Foundation. ART HALEY accompanied Father Cav-anaugh. 


FR.\XK P. CROWLEY u-as married to Martha Jean Kirn on April 30 in Holy Trinity Church. 
B. F, McLAlN, who has held a long series of civic posts, including the prcsidenc>- of th= Dallas Chamber of Commerce, recently added the prcsi­denc\- of the Better Business Bureau to his niany honors. 
Foundation committeeman TOM E. BRAXIFF 

was unanimously re-elected chairman of the board 
of the Catholic Charities in Dallas earlier in ;hc 
year. 
A Notre Dame alumnus whose recent visit \o 

Dallas got considerable attention—from both news­
papers and local landlords—was Housing Expediter 
TIGHE WOODS, '33. 
And to wind up this issue's ne^'s we pass on the information received yesterday from JACK SHORT­ALL that wife Dorothy is due to present him with twins comes July. 
Dayton 
A mt.i:tin^ of the club was held on April 26 nt the home of DICK FOHL. The 22 membcn present elected TOM FERNEDING, 40. president; JACK O'BRIEN, Ml, vice-pnsident; BOB RANEY, '48, secretary, and ANDY AMAN, '30, treasurer. 
GENE MAYL gave a short talk in which he re­

quested better financial support of the Notre Dame 
Foundation. 
Three mot^es—"Football Highlights of 1948," 

'"Zale-Cerdan Fight," and "Monarchs of the Ring" 
—were shown. We also listened lo the Notre Dame 
radio program.—ROBERT F. RANEY 
Denver 
The club celebrated UND Night with an infonnal dinner and dance at the Edelweiss. GENE BLISH was awarded the University's merit scroll as the man of the year in the Denver Clua. 
The new officers ofHcially took over on UND Night. They are: JAMES H-ANLON, president; Dr. ED­WARD DELEHANTY, Jr., vice-president; ART GREGORY, treasurer; and TOM CURRIGAN, sec­retary. New members elected lo the Board of Di­rectors are JOE MYERS, BOB JACKSON, and Dr. JOHN HEMMING. 
The dub is rapidly progressing with detaik and plans for special trains to the ND-SMU game at Dallas, Tex., and the ND-USC game at South Bend. 
. A number of activities and plans are under way to stimulate the full club membership back lo pre­war interest and action. The club roster now lists 132 members.—TOM CURRIG.\N 
Des Moines 
The club held a dinner at the Hotel Savery on April 2 at uhich Rev. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, CS.C , and JAMES E. ARMSTRONG spoke. About 50 attended from Des Moines and surrounding Iowa cities. 
Detroit 
Dr. CLARENCE "PAT" MANION, dean of the College of Law, was the principal speaker at the club's UND Night celebration at the Detroit Yacht Club. He spoke on ^'Notre Dame and Science." 
JAMES FIZGERrVLD was the toastmaster and Dr. George Calingacrt, Director of Chemical Research of Ethyl Corp., also spoke. 
The new officers elected to serve during the com­ing year are THOMAS J. MORAN, '33, president; LOUIS P. .MALONE, '18, first vice-president; JA.MES N. MOTSCHALL, '39, second vice-presi­dent; J. J. GORMAN, Jr., *38, treasurer; and MALCOLM F. KNAUS, '26, secretary. 
—MALCOLM F. KNAUS 

Eastern Indiana 
At the UND Night celebration held in the K. of 

C. home in Muncie, the club's first Notre Dame Man of the Year au-ard wxis presented to City Judge MARIO PIERONI by President WILLIAM F. CRAIG. The Junior Chamber of Commerce had previously presented him its annual award as the young man rendering the outstanding service to the community. 
New officers are BILL CRONIN, president; ED DIXON, vice-president; and BUTCH DeVAULT, secretary-treasurer (re-elected). 
The football film, "Highlights of 1947," was shown after the dinner and a recording of a ncfio pfognax, presented earlier in the day over WLBC fay Bin Craig and Butcb DeVauIt, was played. 

The new president invited the club members and their wives to be lus guests at the IbrtfonS CSty Country Club on May 16. 
The club assisted the Munde K. of C. in pce­senting the Notre Dame Band in the Muncie Held House on April 10. An enthusiastic reception was given Director LEE HOPE and his band members. 
BUTCH DeVAULT 

Eastern Pennsylvania 
Msgr, LEO G. FINK, V.F., was named the No­tre Dame Man of the Year by the dub at its UND luncheon in the Americus Hotel in AlTentown. The certificate was presented to him by LEO R. Afc-INTYRE for his outstanding religious and i^iilan­thropic work . 
Dr. BERNARD WALDMAN told the assemblage of alumni and guests that Notre Dame has a record in the field of science that is comparable with, and should not be lost sight of in admiration for its rrcord in athletes. He told of his own work with the atom smasher at Notre Dame and with the atom bomb at Los Alamos, N. M. He also described the dramatic flight to Hiroshima, on which he flew as an observer, and the dropping of the first atramc bomb. 
In an editorial th-: next day, the Allentown ''^Monung Call" said of the award to Visgc. Fink that "certainly no honor has been more deserved and many more should come to the man who for twenty-three years has exercised such wide and useful in­fluence in the communitv and has dev-loped in it so many large and worthy institutions." 
Dr. Waldman spoke in Reading, Ea., on UND Night. Dr. EDW.ARD J. LYO.NS and HAROLD DUKE, both past nresidents of the PhiladelphTa club, were guests. BILL TOBIN was toastmaster. After the dinner the University film was shown by JOE FARRELL.—LEO McINTYRE 
Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
FRED J. STEWART %v3s elected president of the dub and WALTER CRANE, secretary. A group of the club members attended the Notre Dame Glee Club concert at Barry College last wnter. 
Fort Wayne 
Dr. ARCHIE J. MacALPIN, head of the Notre Dame Geology Department, paid tribute to the ;d­entific achiewments of Notre Dame at the dub's observance of UND Night in the Chatterbox at the Van Orman Hotd. 
Mrs. HARRY HOGAN and Rev. FREDERICK WESTENDORF were the guests of honor at the celebration. 
The newly dected oncers, EDWIN J. WESNER, 

The Dallas Club honored BCT. John J. Cavaaangh. CS.C* president on Feb. 23L Shown at the head table are, lelt to right R. Coaxof Seoggina, Almnni JUsodotion dirodoR George W. Strake, Universitr trustee; Toastmaster James P. Swift Texas Foundotioa Gov­ernor; Father Caronaugh; Club President ^'^*«****^ R. Hoggan Bishop Augustine Dangl­moyr: J. Arthur HaleT- University Public Beloliens head; ]. "H, Haggar, Foun­dation Committee memben ond D. A. Holey; eivie leader. 
president; PAUL DeWALD, vice-president; J. BY­RON HAYES, secretary; and EDWARD W. HOCH, treasurer, were installed in a brief ceremony. 
Ed Wesner, chairman of the committee, was assist­ed by the other officers-elect and by BERNARD T. KEARNS, retiring president. C. BYROX H-WES was the toastxnaster. 
Harrisburg 
At a meeting held March I, the incumbent officers, EDWARD R. ECKENRODE, president; WILLIAM 
A. GORMAN, \-icc-president; and WILLL\M J. MOORE, secretary-treasurer, w-erc re-elected. 
Dr. WALTER C. MILLER, research ph>^icist at the University, was the pnndpal speaker at the UND Xight observance at Van's Colonial Restaurant. He reviewed the forward strides in scientific fields being made by the University. 
After the dinner, the new movie, "Notre Dame Looks to Tomorrow,'* was shown. 
The dub is planning a picnic to be held this 
summer, to which N.D. men and their families from 
all of Central Pennsylvania will be imited. 
A club member. Father WILLIAM R. LYONS, 
'44, although he has been ordained less than a year, 
was appointed principal of the DfLone Catholic 
High School in MciSherrytown, Pa., bv Bishop 
Leech.—WILLIAM J. MOORE 

Hawaii 
The club w-as formally organized on March 22, at 

which the constitution was adopted and the follow­
ing officew elected: THOMAS W. FLYNN, '35, 
deputy' attorney-general of the Territory, presi­
dent; JACK McAULIFFE, '37, vice-president; 
THOMAS E. HOPKINS, '30. secretary-, and BILL 
HANIFLN, '31, treasurer. 
Elected to the Board of Directors were JOHN McCORMICK and PALMER AMUNDSEN, one­>-ear terms; CH.\RLES BAPTISTE and JACK PE­TROUS, two->-ear terms; JOE AR.-\KI and CLIFF VAMAMOTO, three-year terms. 
UND Night was appropriately observed by the dub at a dinner meeting with 35 members in at­tendance. In keeping with the sdenti5c theme. President Flynn and Treasurer Hanifin presented a 
15-minute radio program, dealing with the sdcntific 
achievements of Notre Dame Uni**ersity. This pro­
gram, recorded earlier in the afternoon, was broad­
cast during the dinner meedng. 
The get-together also served as an "aloha" for 
Father EDWARD FITZGERALD, G.S.G- chapl^n 
at Hickam Air Force Base, who left the following 
day for a new assignment at Selfridge Field in ^fich­
igan. 
Attending the Univ-ersal Notre Dame night were 
graduates of the University, fortner students and 
parents of students now enrolled at Notre Dame 
or planning to enter the University in the near 
future. 
President Flynn made an appeal to the club mem­
bers to pledgs their support to the Notre Dame 
Foundation this >xar and expressed the hope that the 
Hawaii club would make a substantial contribution 
to the Foundation in 1949.—TOM HOPKINS 

Hiawathaland 
The dub's UND Night observance had to be postponed until May. At this meeting dub activities were to be discussed and new officers elected. 
Idaho 
On April 26 the dub held a dinner meeting at the Hillcrest Country Club for members and their wives. The Notre Dame Man of the Year award was presented to JOE H. NETTLETON, who served as the president of the Idaho Cattle­men's Association, and who was recently rc-appointed to membership on the Idaho State Tax Commission. 
At the meeting plans were discussed and a com­mittee appointed to arrange for a summer meeting at Shore Lodge, McCall, Idaho. The committee, which is composed of CARL GAENSSLEN, JOE NETTLETON, and TIM COUGHLI.N, pt-ms to inv-ite all Idaho and Eastern Oregon alumni and their families, Notre Dame stuc^:nts, and any No­
tre Dame alumni who may be in this part of the west at that time for a weekend party. The dub hopes to have a fair number at the Washington game, 
FRANCIS and MIKE NEITEL were not able to be with us at the Dinner because they were hdp­thcir parents celebrate their golden anniversary on that day. 
TOM JONES gave us some very interesting in­formation on Foundation plans. —PAUL L. KOHOUT 
Harry G, Hogoa. (left) receives cm award from P. C. Heilly. a member of the Boord of Lay Trustees, lor Iiis ontstanding work as head of the Foundatioa. Moose Krause looks on. The presentation wos made at the IndianopoUs Club UND IHght obserrance. 
—Indianapolis Times Photo 
Indianapolis 
UND Night was observed by the dub at the Mar­ott Hotel with over 150 members in attendance. This occasion was also the inauguration of the annual award to be known as "Notre Dame Man of the Year." The award was made to Mayor AL FEEN­£Y, '15, for his inspirational leadership and out­standing achievements. 
A testimonial scroll was presented to HARRY HOG AN, Fort Wayne, for his outstanding work as first national chairman of the board of governors of the University of Notre Dame and immediate past president of the Alumni Association. The presenta­tion was made by P. C. REILLY, member of the University's Board of Lay Trustees. 

Other speakers were the Hon. Heniy* F* Schricker, gowmor of Indiana, and EDWARD W. "MOOSE" KRAUSE, Notre Dame athletic director. BOB KIR­BY was toastmaster. 
Also on the the agenda was the election of offi­cers and directors for 1949-50. The following were elected: NICHOLAS J. CONNOR, president; WIL­LIAM HOLLOND, %-ice-prcsidcnt; JOSEPH GIL­LESPIE, secretary; LEROY KEACH, Jr., treasurer, and CHARLES E. MASON. FRANCIS L. "MIKE" LAYDEN and G. DON SULLIVAN, directors. 
The winner of the dub's 1949 $500 scholarship, which is open to any Marion County high school senior, will be announced before July 1, 
—GEORGE T. O'CONNOR 

Kansas City 
Rev. MAURICE E. POWERS, C.S.C., addressed the dub at its observance of UND Night in the Hotel Phillips. Sixty members and guests heard him talk on Communism. His address was followed by a question and answer period. 
The Football Highlights of '48 were shown after the dinner. 
Father Powers, who was chaplain of the Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenwortli, Kans., is being transferred to an Army post in the Orient. 
Kentucky 
A banquet was held at Kingsley's Ion on UN D Night with 106 persons present. It was the most successful Universal Notre Dame Night ever held in Louisville, due particularly to tha efforts of PAT GREEN. 
That night the following officers were elected for the coming jear: JAMES CARRICO, president; OSCAR VON ALLMEN, Jr., first vice-president; JOHN BANNON, secnnd vice-president; RAY NO­LAN, secretary; and LAWRENCE WILLENBRINK, treasurer. • 
The Notre Dame Band held a concert in Louis­ville on April 11 and the dub sponsored 250 or­phans at the afternoon performance. 
—LAURENCE J. AUBREY 

Miami 
The club named WALTER D. ROWLANDS its Notre Dame man of the year at the UND Night celebration in the Robert Cby Hotel. The retiring pie^dent, L I. PROBST, made the presentation. 
Michigan City 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a banquet at the Beierly Shores Hotel, Beverly Shores, Ind., for club memiiers, their wives and guests. The principal spealter wasi Rev. THOMAS 
A. LAHEY, CS.C , assistant editor of "The Ave Maria." 
Everyone enjoyed Father Tom's reminiscences of the early development of Notre Dame and the "characters" (CoL Hoynes, Brothers Bruno, Poly­carp, Crispinian, et al.) who are scattered through the sdiool's history lilce raisins in bread pudding. 
Iltcluded among the guests were five N.D. alumni from LaPorte, who buried the hatchet of our inter­city rivalry long enough to help us celebrate the occasion. At the condusioa of the aftcT-dlnncr pro­gram. Fast-president HUGH BURNS presented the Notre Dame Mao of the Year Award to JOHN DONNELLY. President FRANCIS FEDDER pre­sided as toastmaster, and TOM KERRIGAN was general chairman of the get-together. — 
—JOHN DONNELLY 
The dub wilt have its annual "Irish Greens Party*' on July 27 at the Michigan City Country Club. General Chairman HUGH BURNS promises that the days' festivities will at least equal, and prob­ably surpass, the top record set at last summer's similar event. 
Milwaukee 
The club celebrated UND Night at the Milwaukee Athletic Club. After dinner, the newly elected offi­trers were installed by Father RACE, chaplain of the club. They are: WILLUM MALANEY, presi­dent; MARK PFALLER, vice-president; RICHARD BALLIET, secretary; ROBERT SANFORD, Ueas­uicr. 
CHARLES O'NEILL, the retiring \ice-presidcn; and recipient of last year's award, then made a post­humous award to CLIFFORD BUCKLEY as the outstanding Notre Dame man of the year in the Milwaukee club. CUfT, his wife Rcjsemary, and their only child, Michael, were all killed in February when their automobile collided with a train. John Buckley, Cliff's father, and Mr. Dincen, Rosemary's father, were present as guests of the club, to accept the award. 
Mr. O'Neill, in his presentation speech, pointed out three things: I) Cliff was the unanimous choice of the club for this award; 2) he was chosen, not because of his untimely death, nor because he had done any one great thing exceptionally well, but because of his loj-alty to the club, and because of the exceptional way in which his Notre Dame train­ing showed forth in his everyday life; 3) an award was made to his wife Rosemary, because when a man marries, his tvife becomes in a sense, a part of him. 
Father HENRY BOLGER, C.S.C., head of the Ph>'sics Department at Notre' Dame, was the guest speaker. He spoke on "Science at Notre Dame," stressing the importance of having good Catholic scientists. 
The summer dance is to be held at Hubbard Lodge on July 29.—STEPHEN WANTA 
Mohawk Valley 
Rev. JOSEPH D. B.ARRY, C.S.C., assistant direc tor of student welfare, stressed the importance of spiritual guidance in education in a talk delivered to the 100 members and guests of the club at its obscr\'ancc of UND Night. 
Dr. FRANCIS MARINO, retiring president, 
thanked the members for their cooperation during 
the past year. Dr. D.AN SHAUGHNESSY was the 
toastmaster. 
The new oflicers installed at the celebration are 
DON FULLEM, president, who spoke briefly; ED­
WARD J. SWEENEY, vice-president; EDWARD A. 
REAGAN, secretary; and ANTHONY GIRUZZI, 
treasurer. 
Monongahela Valley 
Rev. VINCENT BRENNAN, C.S.C., and JACK CANNON delivered a powerful "one-two punch" to members of the club and friends at the annual Knute Rockne Memorial Communion breakfast in Monesscn, Pa., on March 27. 
The former All-American guard spoke for an hour, recounting many of the humorous incidents that provided deeper insight into the life of the great ROCKNE. 
Father Brennan painted an exceptionally accurate picture of Notre Dame*s dependency on the Founda­tion and the generosity of friends in the University'l plans for the future. He was especially effective jn discrediting the false assumption held in many quarters that Notre Dame realizes a huge profit from its football season. 
It was unquestionably the outstandii^ event yet staged by the Mon Valley ND group, whicb fs gradually expanding. 
—BOB WOOD 
The club held its annual UND Night banquet at the Monogahela Valley Country Club, with about thirty persons in attendance. 
Speaker for the Evening was Dr. A. John Goetz, University of Dayton alumnus, and prominent Cath­olic layman. Special guests were Father Oweo J. Kirby, pastor of St. Leonard's Church, Monessen, Pa., and Father William J. Maher, club chapUun. Retiring president JIM DEVLIN, '32, was in charge of the affair and acted as toastmaster. 
Club officers elected for the coming year are: GEORGE C. M\RTINET, president; J. VINCENT SOISSON, vice-president; CHARLES MONTGOM­ERY, secretary; and ED SENDEK, treasurer. 
The following were named club directors: JIM RUSSELL, VINCE CAPANO, LARRY WELCH and ED DE.AN. Edward Dean is the Foundation Chairman. 
Monroe, Mich. 
Prof. JOHN H. SHEEHAN, head of the Eco­nomics Department, was the principal speaker at the club's UND Night obscrv-ance. Football movies were shown after the dinner. 
Neiv Jersey 
Almost 125 members and guests attended the UND Night observance in the Essex House in New­ark. Rev. ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C., spoke at the celebration, as did Capt. Howard H. Caldwell, athletic director of the U. S. Naval Academy, his assistant, EDGAR "RIP" MILLER, and Head Coach George Sauer. 
Capt. Caldwell said that there was no truth to the published reports that Navy was considering following Army's move of discontinuing the annual football game with Notre Dame. "Wc do not care to lose, but we will alwa>-s meet the best, which must mean Notre Dune as br as football is tarn­cemed." ' '''••• 
Anong the other speakis were JOSEFH M. BYRNE, Jr., a sKmber tt the Uonenity's Board oC Lay Trustees, aad RAY GEIGER, the Neir Jeney Slate Fooadatiaa Gavemor. 
EDWAKO KntBY was rhairman o{ the cooaittee in charge of arranging the celebratioa. 
The Nominating Committee annnnniTd that the candidates for dub offioen, to be elected in June, are: prendent, TOM HOGAN and BOX SMALL; vice-lnsident, RAY TROY and JOE PARNIE­GRAU; secntary, ED NEAGLE and BILL WAL­DRON, Jr.; treasurer, GENE FARRELL aad CLARK REYNOLDS; directors, HANK BORDA, HARRY CLEMENTS, DICK DERRICKS and FRANK GARIBALDL 
The club held its mid-winter get-together ia February, whicji was attended by 150 menribeis, wives, friends and dtOdren. The conunittee, under tlie chairmanship of JOHN Q. ADAMS, presented a musical program.—BILL WALDRON 
New York City 
The two weeks after Easter brought about a JRUD­ber of activities in the dub, notable of whidi .was the resumption of the annua] visit of the Glee Chib to New York. An excellent concert took ]4acc on April 19 and %iras attended by well over 1,100 people, li e reception at the Biltm:nre follo%nng the concert was reminiscent of the Army game rallies and it was agreed by all that we will have to make it m annual event again and get our bid in early this year for a definite date the next time the Glee du b comes East. 
The annual celebration of UND Night had been long planned and well handled by ED FALLON for months pre\ious, but a general strike at RUD­pert's caused a last minute canccDatioa and pat all Ed's fine %vork to naught. However, about 200 alma­ni gathered at the ^tmore that night and com­bined the observance with the annual club meetii^. From this meetii^ came the election of officacrs of the club for the comii^ year: JORDAN HAR­GROVE, '35, was elected president; TIERNEY O'ROURKE, '30, viccprcudent; AL PERRINE, Jr., '41, secretary, and JIM SPELLMAN, '41, trea»­

The Miami Club honored Folher Cavcmaisgh. proridaat wiib a r«cop6oa ia Hbm Waller Rowlonds. Shown aboTo ar» L L fteb0t dvb pmideBt (left). Fcrthsr Coranaugh, ond lifr, Rowlands, IGami Fouadation Choiffwon, 
.V.,^^-^^ 
1. HARRISBURG—From left: Presi­dent Edward R. Eckenrode, Joseph 
R. Forreil, Prof. Walter C. Miller, William J. Moore. 
2.
 ST. LOUIS—Robert T. Hellrung (left) receives special award from President Fred McNeill. 

3.
 LOS ANGELES—Ann BIyth ana Rev. Patrick Peyton, c.s.c. 

4.
 ROCHESTER — Rev. Louis J. Thornton, c.s.c. President Jock Hedges end Jerry Flynn. 

5.
 WASHINGTON, D. C—Some past presidents with President Pat Gorman at 25th anniversary of club. From left: Robert W, Covanaugh, James D. Hayes, Gorman, Thomas L. McKevitt, William B. Jones, Bernard 


E. Loshbough, George C. Howard. 
6. CENTRAL ILLINOIS—At head table, from left: Mike Seyfrit, Rev. Eugene P. Burke, c.s.c. Lt. Gov. Sherwood Dixon, Bishop William D. O'Connor, Richard Neeson. Rev. J. 
F. O'Hara. 
7.
 ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—From left: Rev. Vincent Thilman, c.s.c., Mrs. Francis Messick, William P. O'Neill, Rev. Howard Kenno, cs.c , Jerome Crowley, Jr., Dr. Charles C. Price, Mrs. Crowley, E. M. Morris, Mrs. Price, Mr. Messick. Mrs. Morris was also seated at the head table. 

8.
 WILKES-BARREondSCRANTON. 



Universal Notre Dame Nisht 1949 
9. BALTIMORE.—From left: Retir­ing President Roy O. Scholz; Speak­ers Tighe E. Woods and E. M. O'Connor; President Franldyn C. Hochreiter. 
10. INDIANAPOLIS —From left, 
•sitting:
 Ed Krause, Bob Krrby, Gov­ernor Henry F. Schricker. Harry G. Hogan. Standing: Retirinq President 

G.
 Don Sullivan, Mayor Al Feeney, Dinner Chairman Bob Moynihan, Lay Trustee P. C. Reilly. 



H . EASTERN INDIANA—Judge Mario Pieroni re­ceives "man of the year" award from Retiring ! President Bill Craig. 
12.
 CHICAGO—From left: Irish Consul John M. Conway, Msgr. John K. Cortwright, Lay Trustee John C. Tully, Patron Chairman Francis H. Mc-Keever. In background: Rev. William Mahoney, O.P., *'3B. 

13.
 WESTERN WASHINGTON: Leo Cummings re­ceives "man of the year" award from President John P. English. From left: Secretary Jerry Kane, Cummings, English, Rev. Philip Duffy, chaplain. 



urer. To assist Tim O'Rourke as M'ce-pr«iidcnt "WILLIAM H. FALLON »-as selected. 
Father JOHN CAVANAOGH and JIM ARM­STRONG were with us on May 11 for the celebra­tion of President's Night. The establishment of this idea »-as w-ell received last year and we plaTi to tnake it one of the big events of the atinual agenda. 
Plans and committees are now being formed for the ei'ents of the year, with the spotlights centered on a \Tsit by FRANK LEAHY in June, we hope, and of course the rally and game for the North Carolina weekend, Nov. 12.—.\L PERRINE, Jr. 

Northern California 
On UND Night the following officers were elected: DON ALLEN, president; BILL D.ALY, \-icc-presi­
dent; R.ALPH HAVILAND, secretary; and GEORGE THOMAS, treasurer. The meeting was a grand success and was cnio>"ed by all. 
On May 9, the Board of Directors met at the Athens Athletic Club in Oakland to discuss the aims of the Foundation.—BILL YORE 

Northern New York 
UND Night was celebrated at the Franklin Hotel, Malone, N. Y., with speeches, movies, and the presentation of a scroll to an outstanding alumnus. JOSEPH BRANDY of Ogdensburg, former football star of Notre Dame, and PAUL P.\TTEN, football coach of St. LawTence University, were the speakers and moWes of the 1947 football season were shown. 
Joe Brandy, member ol the famous football team in which Notre Dame's immortal GEORGE GIPP starred, spoke of his experiences under the regimes of Jesse Harper and KNUTE ROCKNE. Paul Pat­ten, of later \*intage at Notre Dame, compared FRANK LEAHY to Rockne and he called the latter one of the greatest coaches of all time. He paid great tribute to the industry and humility of Leahy. 
Rev. DONALD GALLAGHER, '24. was elected president to succeed the Hon. CORNELIUS J. CAREY, Jr. Father Gallagher, who resides in Lyon ^fountain, is a former Navy chaplain, and one of the North Country's staunches! Notre Dame sup­porters. 
Attorney CLYDE A. LEWIS, class of 1934, was singled out as the club's outstanding man of the year. He was presented with a special scroll in rec­ogniuon of his high position^that of national senior A-ice commander—in the Veterans of Foreign Wars. Leuis is slated to become National Commander of the VFW in August. 
Plans for a summer retreat were made, to be held at Upper Saranac Lake— MIKE TACKLEY 
Wi^*t ^ 
Omaha 
Rev. C. J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., was the prin­cipal speaker at the UND Night obser\-ance in the Hotel Fontenelle. EDWARD McKIM, Omaha Foun­dation chairman, was toastmaster. Father Laskowski showed the new campus film. 
Panama 
With Lent ending all acliWties, the club's only get'togethcr during the period was a St. Patrick's Day dance held in conjunction with the Knight of Columbus at the TivoU Hotel in Ancon. 
LEO J. KRZZZA is expecting to attend the sum­mer session at Notre Dame. 
Peoria 
Some 100 members and guests helped to celebrate UXD Night, with DON ELSER, '36, the principal speaker. Don is coach at Horace ^(ann High Schfxil in Gar>-, Ind. Other speakers were DON SMITH, JOHN CASSIDY, Sr. ENNIO ARBOIT and RALPH JOHNSON. 
DON SMliH, former president of the club and export credit manager for the Caterpillar Corp., w-as named the Notre Dame man of the year and a scroll presented to him. 
The new officers are EUGENE SLEVIN, '44, president; ROGER GUSTAFSON, '46, vice-presi­dent; JOHN CASSIDY, Jr., '48, secretary; and JOHN AMBERG, '48, treasurer. 
Two new members were elected for three->*car terms to the Board of Directors: ENNIO ARBOIT, '38, and LEO SCHRALL, '29. 
Philadelphia 
Rev. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C., explained to the 300 members and guests present at the club's UXD Night obser\'ance in the ballroom of the Belle\Tie Stratford Hotel why Notre Dame is plan­ning such a large program in scienufic research. He said that It is a necessary move. 
Other speakers included FRANCIS WALLACE, president of the .-Vlumm Association; FRED C. MIL­LER, president of the Monogram Club; VINCE McNALLY, business manager of the Philadelphia Eagles football team; and EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE, athletic director. The club chaplain. Rev. CHARLES ^L\HONEY, C.S.C., and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Cletus J. Benjamin, chancellor of the archdiocese, said grace. 

^ •" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The retiring president, JOHN H. NEESON, Jr., introduced the new head of the club, A. F. "BUD" DUDLEY, who was married two days after the celebration. 
WALTER R. RIDLEY was named Notre Dame man of the year in recognition of the work he has done (or the dub. A scroll was presented to him. 
The dinner was followed by dancing. 
Co-chairmen of the highly successful celebration were JOSEPH F. CATTIE, Jr., and CHARLES A. CONLEY. The committee included the following: WILLIAM BODO. WALTER RIDLEY, DANIEL HALPIN, THOMAS LEWIS, DAN YOUNG, ROB­ERT BURNS, WILLIAM BURNS, .JOHN NEE­SON, Jr.. PAUL TOLAN'D. VINCENT DONO­HUE. LEO.NARD TOSE. ARTHUR COUGHLAN and CLIFFORD PRODEHL. 
The dubs next event will be a summer dance at the Bala Country Club on June 10.—BILL BURNS 

Phoenix 
With a soecial shoeing of the 1947 Notre Dame-Southem California' football game, on UND Night, the dub closed the most successful year since it \\-as organized four years ago. A most enjoyable social cwning H'as spent by members and their guests. 
Officers elected are: TOM O'MALLEY, presi­dent: JOHN DEHNER. \ice-nresidenl; BILL JOYCE, treasurer, and MAURICE MOONEY, sec­retary. 
Retiring president BOB KENDALL highly com­olimented the members for the effort each contri­buted toward making the club's Dlcdire to ihe Foundation a reality.—JOHN W. DEHNER 
Pittsburgh 
On April 22 the Notre Dame Glee Club appeared at the Antonian Hall. Mount Merc>*. under the joint auspices of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh and The Mercy Hospital Auxiliary*. This concert t^-as arranged largely through the efforts of Dr. LEO O'DONNELL, of the Mercy Hospital Staff. 
FRANTC McSORLEY and MIKE SHERIDAN worked hard in selling tickets, securing partons, and generally aiding In making this event an outstanding success. 
UN D Night was celebrated with a gala banquet at the Pittsburgh Athletic Assocriation. The featured sneaker was Dr. L. H. BALDINGER, Dean of the College of Science. Notre Dame, who covered some plans of the University, especially concerning science. 
Among the guests at the banquet were the Hon­orable David L. La^sTence. mayor of Pittsburgh, Rev. Thomas F, Coakley, D.D., rector of Sacred Heart Church, Pittsburgh, and Dr. Thomas Parran^ dean of the newly-planned multi-million dollar School of Public Health at the University of Pittsburgh. VINCE BURKE, past president, did a well-rounded job of introdudng all of the above and keeping things moving. Also prominent at the speakers' table were Dr. LEO O'DONNELL and JOHN Mc-MAHON. 
More than 75 guests and members were present for the banquet, and since the theme of the evening was on the scientific side, it u-as good to see :o many alumni physitrlans present, among whom were Drs. OTOOLE, HEGARTY, DINEEN and the McDONALD brothers. Also among those In atten­dance wre the following: VIN SWEENEY, JOHN McGRAW, JIM DEVLIN, Dr. JOHN MCLEAN, Judge HUGH BOYLE, and E. J. O'BRIEN. 
The scroll denoting the Notre Dame man of the year was presented to Dr. LEO D. O'DONNELL, for his outstanding success as surgeon and physician, for his fine Christian qualities and loj-alty to Notre Dame. 
New officers for the coming year were elected fol­lowing the banquet. They are: president, EUGENE COYNE; vice-president, REGIS LAVELLE; treas­urer, GEORGE KINGSLEY; secretary, BOB FUL­TON- Resident Coyne plans an active year for the dub and uisesall to gi\-e him their support. A Jiote of thanks was extended to the old ofiicers for a job well done during the past year, VINCE BURKE, 

president; J.\CK MONTEVERDE, \^*ce-president; Members of the Pittiburgh Club who attended the Club Retreat gather in hront ol SL GEORGE KINGSLEY, treasurer, and BOB CHAM­
Paul's Betreat House in Pittsburgh. The retreat was held irom Jan. 7 to 9. BERLIN, secretary. 
Among the members whose energy and enthtisiasm made the banquet a huge success -were JACK MON­TEVERDE, GEORGE KINGSLEV and VINCE BURKE.—BOB FULTON 
Portland 
The club had the largest turnout in its history for the UND Night observance at the Mallory Hotel. The cocktail hour before dinner was hon­ored by radio station KGW's "Musical Cocktaik" show featuring the 'Victory March.* Our thanks to Program Director Homer Welch, Maestro Abe Ber­kowitz and tenor Brad Reynolds. Also to "The Ore­gonian" and "The Oregon Journal" for good press coverage; to Johnny Carpenter of KOIN, Program Director Tom Swafford of KPOJ, Larry Keep of KEX, Rene Bozarth of KWJJ, all of whom helped to give N.D. the best airing short of a national hookup. 
With motif by HANK PEAR, and motive power dispensed by OSCAR QUOIDBACH, the proceed­ings got of[ to a good start. Thanks go to the Arrangements Committee, headed by DORWIN PALMER. Retiring president ED S.ANDSTROM hurried the bo}*: along in the necessary business. BILL SCHMITT, Foundation Governor, enlightened us on the Washington game football ticket setup. 
The newly elected officers are PETER F. SAND­ROCK, '39, president; ALBERT M. HOLDER, '23, \ice-president; and THOMAS J. ^L^GEE, *32, sec­retary-treasurer. Two new directors, in addition to the retiring president and the new ofUcers. were elected—DOM C.ALLICRATE and MORRISON A. CONWAY. 
DUKE HODLER. toastmaster, did his usual excel­lent job. HARRY WRIGHT, football coach at the University of Portland, and Line Coach Neil Green, spoke. 
Feature speaker of the Night was Father JO­SEPH S. McGRATH, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science at the University of Portland, who recounted the earlier acfaiet'ements of Notre Dame in science and spoke from, personal knowledge of much of the later work. Father McGrath reminded us of our good fortune in receiving the highest science from Notre Dame, a "sound philosophy of life.** 
—TOM MAGEE 

Rhode Island 
^fore than 175 members and guests gathered at the Sheraton Biltmore Hotel in Providence to ob­serve UND Night. The speakers included Rev. GEORGE BENAGLIA. C.S.C., president of Stone-hill College; Rev THOMAS C. DUFFY. C.S.C. 
assistant provincial of the C.S.C., and J. CLEM­ENT GRIMES, retiring president of the club. 
Most Rev. Russell J. McVinney, D.D., bishop of Providence, and his mother and family were honor guests. 
Lt. Gov. JOHN S. McKEIRNAN, '34, toast­master, inducted the new officers: RUSSELL L. HUNT, '39, president; JOHN A. McINTYRE, '40, vice-president; ANDREW J. JfcMAHON, '35, sec­retary; and JOSEPH L. McDONAL, treasurer. 
The day before the celebration a radio broadcast told local radio audiences of the educational and re­search projects at N.D. JOHN: McLAUGHLIN and RUSS HUNT were the narrators. 
The club's next activity will be a dance in June. ANDREW J. Mc^L«^ON 
Spokane 
UND Night w-as celebrated in Spokane with a most enjoyable dinner and meeting. Highlight of the evening was the club's award to THOMAS A. E. LALLY, *06, prominent lau^er and outstanding Catholic laj-man, of the scroll as the outstanding Notre Dame man of the Inland Empire. 
•To
 folIo\v the theme of UND Night, VINCENT 

P.
 SLATT gave a speech based upon scientific ad­\-ances now being made at our Alma Mater. 


JOHN P. O'NEILL u-as named president; FRANK HERRON, *35, vice-president; VINCENT P. SLATT, *43, secretan*, and THOXL\S GERRAUGHTY, *M, treasurer. 
Plans for a gala weekend in Seattle were outlined for the da>'s Notre Dame in\'ades the Husky den this coming football season. That will be a big event in the Northwest because we've been \vaiting a long time to see our men perform in our area. 
ELMER JOHNSON, '20, the nexvly appointed Foundation Chairman, reported on plans for this program. Elmer has just returned from Olympia where he u-as instrumental in passage of the "Fam­ily Relations Court"—a law definitely based upon Catholic principles. 
A most grateful vote of appreciation was given Ben Lenoue, *31, outgoing president, for his part in forming, guiding and establishing a solid club in this city. 
J.AMES DURCAN, '24; FRANK HAGENBARTH, '27; JIM LYNCH, *40; BILL OLSON, *42; iLVUR-US URICH, '06; FRANK ZAPPONE, *27, com­pleted the roll.—VINCENT P. SLATT 
South Central Wisconsin 
Some 40 persons attended the UND N^ t cele­bration at Madison, at which JOHN MARTIN was awarded a scroll as the Notre Dame Blam of the. Year. Vincent Deppish spoke on Catholic Action. 
New officers are JOHN BRENNAN, '41, presi­dent; FRANK HAMILTON, vice-prcsideiit; and MAURICE LEAHY, *29, secxetarr-trcasuier (re­elected). The two new directors are KEN NIGLIS, *42, and TOM HENNEY, *43. 
RU'BE GRUNDEMAN, the retiring president, was transferred last month by General Motors to Mimie­apolis. 
Arrangements for the observance were in charge of MAURICE LEAHY, TOM FROST, and TOM HENNEY. 
St. Louis 
Rev. ROBERT J. SHEEHAN, C.S.C., head of the Biolc^y Department, was the principal speaker at UND Night observance, at which a scroll was presented to BOB HELLRUNG in recognition of his outstanding services as vioe-pre^dent of the Association. 
The club's new officers are JOHN J. GRIFFIN, Jr., president; JAMES J. O'NEAL, vice-president; THOMAS J. TREACY, treasurer; and J. WARREN HELLRUNG, secretary. 
TOM TREACY, WARREN HELLRUNG. GER­RY McDERMOTT and GEORGE WRAPE were elected to the Board of Directors. For the fint time in the history of the club a father and ton, DUTCH WRAPE and his son, George, are serving on the Board of Diiccton. 
FATHER REEVES will again serve as chaplain. 
FRED MCNEIL L completed his term as presi­dent of the club with the distinguished record of showing a club surplus for the year's activities. The retiring members of the Board of Directors. LOU FEHLIG, WALTER GEORGE and CHARLES GI­OMI, were given a vote of thanks. 
Hans for the football trips ikext fall were an­nounced by Dr. BERT COUGHLIN. —JOHN J. GRIFFIN, Jr. 
St, Joseph Valley 
The United Nations needs an overhauling. Dr. CHARLES C. PRICE, head of the Chemistrr De­partment, told club members at their UND Night 
Members and guesU of the Bhode Island ond S. E. Massachuaetts Club gather in th* Shatatoa BOtmon Hotel in ProTidence to observe UND IfighL 
observance in the Notre Dame Dining Hall. It must have power to prevent \*-ar by having control of aggressive H-eapons, and the veto must be abolished, he said. 
JEROME CROWLEY, retiring president, presided at the dinner and introduced Rev. HOWARD KENN.A, C.S.C., who spoke on behalf of the Uni­versity. Jerry was presented with a X.D. blanket by the club. 
New officers installed are FRANCIS M. MES­SICK, president; JOH.X S. MOULDER, Wce-presi­dcnt; ROBERT HOLMES, treasurer; LARRY DANBOM, secretary-; and Rev. VLXCENT THIL­MA.V, C.S.C., chaplain. WILLIAM P. O'NEILL v^-as named honorary president. 
New directors of the club are JEROME C. CLAEYS, EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE, ROB­ERT M. SWEENEY, and JOHN G. FAR.\B.-\UGH. 
GUS DORAIS was the principal speaker at the annual Communion breakfast commemorating the death of KXUTE K. ROCKNE. Rev. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., chaplain of the club, celebrated the Mass in Dillon Hall chapel and spoke brieflv at the breakfast, as did Mayor GEORGE A. SCHOCK of South Bend. President Crowley presided and in­troduced BILL EARLEY, chairman of the affair and toastmaster. Following the breakfast, wreaths were placed on the giave of Coach Rockne, JOHN 
P. NICHOLSON, former track coadi, and GEORGE 
E. KEOGAN, former basketball coach. .-Ml are buried in Highland Cemeter>', South Bend. 
Tulsa 
The club celebrated UND Night, and added a <lutch lunch and annual elections to make it a true celebration. The new officers elected are BILL PADON. '42. president, to succeed CARL SENGER; CHARLES McNAMARA, '39. \-icc-prcsIdent to suc­<xc6 JOHN O'HERN; and PETE McNLAHON, '44, to succeed G. K. DONOVAN. 
The club, honored by a visit from Father JOHN <:AVANAUGH, C.S.C, and -\RT HALEY, re­:sponded with a dinner-meeting at the Tulsa Club. 

•Our
 guests were doubly welcome since they brought the new color film of Notre Dame life, and the football film, "Highlights of the 1948 Season." 

The Tulsa Notre Dame Club has recently re­

•ceived
 a substantial cash donation from CHARLEY and PETE McMAHON for the purpose of starting a scholarship fund for bo>-s from the Tulsa area to attend Notre Dame. BILL SHERRY has been ap­pointed chairman of the newly created fund. We anticipate putting in any surplus from the club's annual operating fund into the scholarship fund. 

We have recently acquired some South Bend alum­ni as new members of the Tulsa Club: BERXIE WrrUCKI has joined the coaching staflf of Tulsa University, and CHARLES DOH.XALEK. has been 


•
 empIo>-ed by the Warren Petroleum Co. In addition, 


CHARLES PATTERSON has moved into our area. —JERRY DONOVAN 

'Trentoiiy N. J. 
The informal group which has organized here met in obsert-ance of UND Night, with LEO HUGHES -as chairman. 
A Foundation Committee has been formed under the chairmanship of PETER MORGAN and made up of LEO HUGHES. HOWAMJ W.\LDRON. LOUIS BILLI, CARLTON RILEY and THOMAS CARLIN. 
Tri Cities 
About 60 members and wives obserx'cd UXD week by assisting at Mass and receiving Com­munion in Sacred Heart Churdi, Rock Island, HL Breakfast in the Rock Island Arsenal Golf 

-Club followed. Tlie principal speaker ^vas Bernard Moran, states attorney'. 
ED MEAGHER, Rock Island City Foundation -Chairman, spoke on Foundation objectives with par­
- ticular reference to the new science building. 
RALPH EHR was chairman of the committee on -arrangements for the UND obserx'ancc, and also -acted as toastmaster. A section of Sacred Heart 
* Church was reser\'ed for the club members and their wives, and the pastor, in his sermon, u-el' corned the Notre Dame group. 
New club officers arc RALPH CORYN, president; LEO HERBERT, vice-president; R.ALPH EHR, sec­retan-, and ED ME.-VGHER, treasurer. GEORGE UHLXIEYER was chairman of the nominating com­mittee, composed also of BILL BERNBROCK and JIM SKELLEY. 
Tri State 
At the UND Night obseri'anoc in E\-ansvilIe, Ind., ROBERT HENNEBERGER was elected president; ROBERT L,\MEY, first vice-president; RAY ZI­LLAK, second vice-president; STEVE ENSNER, sec­retar>-; and ROBERT HARGRAVE. treasurer. 
Wabash Valley 
The club celebrated UND Night with a dinner m:eting in the ballroom of the Fowler Hotel in Lafayeile. The guest speaker was Father WILLIAM ROBI.XSON, C.S.C., who outlined the scientific achievements of the University in its \'arious labora­tories. He also pointed out the importance of the ideals and philosophy taught at Noire Dame in solving the complex problems before the world today. 
One of the hightlights of the evening ^^•as the presentation of a monogrammed key to ^1. A. NEVILLE, '99. Mr. Neville entertained the group by recalling the activities of many of his classmates and in pointing out the difference between the Notre Dame of '99 and that of today. 
Guy ("Red") Mackey, athletic director, Siu Hol­comb, head football coach, and JOE DIEXHART, freshman football coach, all of Purdue University, were guests of the club. Red Mackey emphasized that as long as he had anything to do with Purdue football, Notre Dame would continue to have a place on the schedule. Joe showed us Purdue's movies of last fall's N'otre Dame game. LARRY O'CONNOR was general chairman for the party. 
Present officers of the club are Dr. KENNETH 
F. LAWS, president; ROBERT MOHLMAN, vice-president; WILLIAM W. RUNGE, secrelan-treas-urer.—WILLIAM W. RU.XGE 
Washington^ D. C. 
UNO Night was celebrated with a dance at the Carlton Hotel attended by 250 members and guests. The Notre Dame Man of the Year award was made to EDWARD E. FEXLON, chairman of the UXD Night committee, for his tireless efforts and service to the club. 
Rev. FRANK GARTLAND, C.S.C. editor of "The Catholic Boy," gave a short talk. A birth­day cake decorated for the club's 23th birthday, was presented to the club chaplain. Rev. BERNARD 
E. RANSIXG, CS.C. 
The new officers, J. R. "PAT" GOR.MAN, '40, president; THOMAS J. FLY.XN, '35, vice-presi­dent; PAUL C. TULLY, '39, secretary; and JOHN 
T. BARBER, '36, treasurer, were introduced. 
A great deal of advance publicity was given to the affair in sci-eral local papers, and prior to the dance the president-elect was inter\'iewed over Sta­tion WOL. Pat discussed the Foundation, the drive for the new Science Building, and the scientific tradition and background at the University. 
At 10 p. m. retiring president TOM McKEVITT was interviewed over Station WWDC. He outlined the purposes of UND Night and the objectives of the Foundation. 
The new officers were elected at a meeting held on Feb. 14. Tom McKevitt, '32, and LEO F. .MULQUEEN, '19, were elected to the Board of Directors. BILL JOXES, recently elected Director of the national Alumni Association, gave an interesting talk on alumni plans and activities, and also dis­cussed the Natural Law Institute. BOB CAVA­NAUGH, City Foundation chairman, outlined plans for continued actinties in the Foundation. 
The annual Rockne Memorial Communion Break­fast was held on Laetare Sunday, March 27, at the Carlton Hotel, following Mass at St. Matthew's Caihedral, at which the club chaplain, ^\-as the celebrant. 
The regular weekly luncheons on Tuesdays from 12 to I p. m. are gaining in popularity. Feb. 28 was an especially interesting session with Father ROBERT H. SWEENEY, CS.C , attending and renewing friendships with about 55 club members. 
—THOMAS J. FLYN'N 

New officen of Washington. D. CM Club — Left to right Thomos L. McKevitt '32. retiring president- J. R. "Pot" Gorman. '40. president; Thomas J. Flynn* '35, Tice-president* John T. Barber. '36, treosuren ond Paul C ToUr, '39. secretary. 
West Virsinia 
The following club officers were elected to lenc during the year of 1949: president, AL KESSING; \-ice-prcsident, DAVE MONCRIEF; secretary-treas­urer, FRANK SHEETS. 
The UND Night was celebrated with a buffet dinner at the home of FRANK SHEETS on April 
25. At this dinner the Notre Dame Man of the Year award was presented to former Judge .AR­THUR P. HUDSON, '95.—FRANK SHEETS 
Western Washington 
The club celebrated UND Night at a banquet in the Pompeiian Room of the Washington Athletic Club, Seattle, attended by the largest group of No­tre' Dame alumni ever to assemble in this area. 
.•\ feature of the evening was the gathering of four "Old Timers:" WILLIAM H. TIERNEY, '01, GEORGE NYERE, '03, HARRY ABLE, '07, and Dr. CLARENCE SHANNO.V, '02, (Miniums). Un­able to attend but nevertheless, sending their writ­ten regrets were two other "Old Timers:" Judge JOHN O'PHALEN, '0+, of Kent, and R. P. (BOB) BROWN, '99, of Vancouver, B. G. 
The official program got under\\-ay when JOHN ENGLISH, '33, president of the club, introduced Father PHIL DUFFY, '31, club chaplain, who spoke briefly on the spiritual meaning of UND Night. Father Duffy was followed by MORRIE STAR­RETT, '21, of Port Townsend, chairman of the club's Board of Directors. Morrie gave an interest­ing histor>- of the N.D. Club of Western Washington and introduced Old Timers present who were nniong the organizers o! the club. These included JERRY 
HAGAN, '23, of Seattle, FRANK McHUGH, '11, 
first president, ED BROWN, '20, of .Anacortes and LES FURLONG, '11, of Tacoma, one of the current directors of the club. 
President English announced the new annual alum­ni club award of "Man of the Year" and con­ferred it on LEO CU.M.MINGS, '33, of Seattle, for his fine work during the past year as chairman of the successful football contest which netted the club approximately $1,350 to be used for entertain­ment of the football team and alumni who attend the ND-Washington game this fall in Seattle. 
CHARLIE OSBORN, '38, of Seattle, e-x-officio member of the Board and past president of the Club was introduced and outlined plans, made to date for the reception of the football team and alumni at next fall's game here. Charlie is chairman of the reception and has planned a full program for the weekend. All alumni attending are urged to con­tact the Alumni Information Center to be established in the lobby of the Olympic Hotel, Seattle. 
BILL TIERNEY, '01, Retreat chairman, an­nounced the dates in August for the Notre Dame Retreat at St. Martin's College near 01>-mpia. This is an annual event attended by many Notre Dame men in this vicinity. Secretar>- JERRY K.ANE, '38, outlined the club activities of the past year which included the following events since the last UND Night, dinner in April of 1948: a Summer Informal Dance, July 6, at the Rainier Country- Club, Seattle; a football movie in the Washington .Athletic Club, Seattle, Oct. 27; a Bingo Party at the Knights of Columbus Hall, Seattle, Nov. 17; Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday celebrated Dec. 5 at the Immaculate Conception Church and the Cow­man Hotel in Seattle; and a luncheon at the Washington Athletic Club, Seattle, .April S. honoring ED (.MOOSE) KR.AUSE, .\.D. athletic director. 
—JERRY K.ANE 

Wilkes-Barre 
More than 75 members and guests attended the U.ND Night celebration of the Wilkes-Barre-Scranton groups in the Westmoreland Club of Wilkes-Barre, April 25. 
The span of years covered by the alumni ran from 1903, Attorney JAMES JORD.AN, down to 1948, RICHARD ZNA.\IECKI. 
An evaluation of science was given by the guest speaker. Dr. JAY YOUNG of King's College. Like­wise present from King's were Father WILLIAM SCANDLON, C.S.C., and Father DUPUIS, C.S.C. 
Bits of news about a few of the members picked up along the way: the Scranton club is striving to raise a quota of $700 for the 1949 Science Founda­tion Fund. BOB GOLDEN, first president of the Scranton Club when it was organized in 1935, is now director of the Catholic Youth activities in the Wilkes-Barre area. 
ANTHONY G. WEBBER has been engaged to Miss Mary M. Kelly, Dunmore, Pa., since Christmas. The wedding is scheduled for June 18. 1949. 
—TONY WEBBER 

The new club officers are Dr. MAURICE RE­GAN, '31, president: Dr. JOHN C. BRADY, '36, vice-president; ROBERT McCABE, '36, treasurer, and THOXfAS M. HIGGI.NS, '34, secretary. 
—T. M. HIGGINS 

Youngstown 
The greatest array of notables to ever attend a club gathering took part in the UND Night cele­bration at the Youngstown Countr>* Club on April 28. 
The principal speaker was the Rev. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame. Others who spoke were WILLIAXI R. DOOLEY, as­sistant alumni secretary and managing editor of the ALUMNUS; Mayor Charles P. Henderson of Youngs­town; and Afost Rev. James A. McFadden, D.D., bishop of Youngstown. 
CHARLES B. CUSHWA, Jr., chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation for the Youngstown area, and one of the most active alumni in the district, was chosen as *'Notre Dame Man of the Year.'* President CLARENCE T. ("PETE") SHEEHAN presented the scroll to the astounded Cushwa. 
At the speakers' table also were THOMAS H. BEACOM, '20, member of the the Board of Lay Trustees; Common Picas Judge John W. Ford, a trustee of Kenyon College, and Dr. Howard W. Jones, president of Youngstown College. Judge JOHN BUCKLEY, '20, chief organizer and first president of the club, was introduced. 
There were 205 members and guests at the dinner. A large delegation came from Warren, Ohio, and there were others from Sharon, Pa., Sharpsville, Pa., and from Leetonia, Niles and Girard, Ohio. 
Father Cavanaugh aroused a little homesickness by his description of spring at Notre Dame; then he reviewed quickly the progress the University has made in the 25 years that embrace the club's his-tor>'. He also told of the new projects, planned or und;r way, at the University. 
The main tfaente of Father Ca\-anaugh's address was the necessity for recognizing God in daily life. He said that nuny peisons are concerned about Communism, but that he is more worried about its cause, atheism. Germaoy, Italy and Russia, he s»d, became easy prey for force and fear bnause the lack of morality by those in control had brought on chaos. 
"Either God becomes a part of our lives," he said, "or we will subject ourselves to force and fear.*" 
TAe University Todoy 

(Continued from Page 7) educational function of an exchange of ideas between business men and educators. 
Speakers were A. J. Kelley, treasurer of the D .C. Andrews and Co., Chicago; Wil­liam S. Honneus, advertising manager. Time International, New York City; James Thom­son, assistant cashier. First National Bank, Chicago; Fitzhugh Granger, merchandising manager. International Harvester Co., Chi­cago; George Quinsenberry, vice-president of McGraw Hill International; Martin Plot-nick, president of the Martin H. Plotnick Co., Chicago; E. L. Davidson, of the United States Department of Commerce; John Lan­gum, vice-president of the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago; and Judson Sayre, presi­dent, Bendix Home Appliance Corp., South Bend. 
(Editor's Note: Modest Professor Fischer wouldn't say so himself in these pages, but it certainly should be known to alimini that he recently was the author of a comment-arousing article in America entitled "Last Newsboy Dies." He expressed the view that "facsimile," already in experimental use, is due to replace the present newspaper, send­ing newsboys, linotype operators, stereotyp­ers, compositors and pressmen to member­ship in a vanishing generation. Newspapers will be transmitted directly to the readers by air wave.) 
More Oufsfanding Men 
Two additional Notre Dame graduates hare been designated the out­standing young men oi their cities by Junior Chambera of Commerce. They are EUGENE L. O'BRIEN. '35. South Bend, and HAYMOND MABBE. '37. Fort Smith, Ark. 
Mr. O'Brien was given a distinguished award for his many civic activi­ties, which included chairmanship of the Freedom Train Committee, mem­bership on the board of directors oi the Y. M. C. A., chairmanship oi the industrial division oi the Community Chest, and membeislup on the St. Joseph County Boy Scout Council. He is a past president of the Notre Dame Club oi the St. Joseph Valley. Just recently he moved to Baltimore. 
DR. CHABIES PBICE. head oi the Chemistry Deportmeni oi Nolle Dame, voted the outstanding young man in Indiana by the State Junior Chamber oi Commerce, was the principal speaker at the dinner honoring Mr. 03rieii. 
Mr. Marre also received his award ior his many dvic and business activities. He was a member of the Golden Gloves Committee; associate member oi the Boys' Club; member of the Creekmore Park Committee; member oi the high school industrial work commiHee. engineera' dub and bond procurement committee, and member oi the civic aiiairs committee of the senior Chcmiber oi Commerce. He ia past president of the Fort Smitli Junior Chamber oi Commerce and is director and treasurer of the state Junior Chamber oi Commerce. 
e alumnt 
Engagements 
Miss Leota Thieike and EUGEXE NL A.\SEX, '47. Miss Virginia Ann Quinlan and THOMAS P. 
BERGIX, '45. Miss Joan Allie and J.AMES H. BUTLER, '48. Miss Patricia Jane Pierick and JAMES V. BUT­
LER, ex-44. Miss Kathr^n Hyland and JAMES A. BYR.XE, '40. 
Miss June Mary Callow and ALLAN J. CLARK, '43. Miss -Mary Foster and THONUS E. FR^WVLEY, e.\-49. Miss Bette Ann O'Connor and COR.NELIUS E. GE.\RY, JR., '40. Miss Blanche Virginia Lee and JOHN V. GIL­MORE, ex-48. Miss Betty Gannon and JAMES E. GOR-NL\N, '48. Miss Mar>- Patricia McCarthy and JOHN F. GUION, '49. Miss Jacqueline Mostacrt and FRANK L. H.\­NEI, JR., '48. Miss Mary Katherine Siney and .ALBERT U. HARDESTY, '49. Miss Claire Christine Wosniak and JOSEPH yl. KUJ.AWSKI, '48. Miss Alice Jo McCarthy and ROBERT C. Mc-KAHAN, '44. Miss Patricia Ann Scherger and JAMES E. IkLACKIN, cx-48. Miss Betty Katherine Kaszas and ROBERT J. iLACKIN, '49. Miss Shirley Annette Atkinson and JOHN W. MURR.\Y, ex-45. Miss Nancy Janet Branton and ROBERT M. NEWGARD, ''48. Miss Mary Anne Marcus and CASIMIR S. RE­JENT, JR., '47. Miss Betty Louise McGarry and JOSEPH F. RUDD, '29. Miss Eleanor Wolfberg and LOREN L SMITH, '48. Miss Marjorie Marie McGraiv and ALOVSIUS J. SPRINGMAN, ex-47. ifiss Barbara Lewise Buxton and JOHN F. STAF­FORD, ex-49. ' Miss Mary Monica Farrell and THOMAS F. STEVENS, '41. Miss Regina MilUgan and JOHN G. SWEENEY, JR., '48. Miss Alice Gene Beardsley and ARDYS DEAN VAN STA'^/ERN, '4«. ifiss Anne Veronica Walsh and GEORGE E. YORK, '42. 
Marriages 
Miss Mary Ann Hagerty and HARRY A. BER­LINER, '45, Aurora, lU., April 30. 
Miss Margaret M. Thomas and HENRY CHASE BLACK, '49, Nolle Dame, April 30. 
Miss Dorothy Speais and ROBERT J. BOWER, ex-46, Lafayette, Ind., Feb. 26. 
Miss Doris Jean Behrndt and ARTHUR R. CL.\RK, JR., '48, South Bend, May 8. 
Miss Doris Jane Kallas and ROBERT H. DIECK­EL^L^N, '39, Milwaukee, Feb. 26. 
Miss Barbara Anne Donahue, daughter of Jfjseph 
F. Donahue, '12, and JOSEPH F. DILLON, '48, Notre Dame, May 5. 
Miss Angela Rose Santrjl and JOHN P. DONO­VAN, '43, Madras, India, March 5. 
Miss Peggy O'Neill and AMBROSE F. DUDLEY, JR., '43, Philadelphia, April 28. 
Miss Edith Hayes Watson and MICHAEL A. FEE.VEY, '34, Phoenix, Ariz., April 9. 
Miss Vivian Marie Page and DON.ALD W. FISHER, '38, South Bend, April 23. 
Miss Gretchcn Longman and EDWARD J. FLAT­TERY, '48, Fort Dodge, la., recently. 
Miss Viisina Weicherding and ALBERT F. GURY, JR., '28, Notre Dame, May 7. 
Miss Marjorie June Whitting and ROBERT E. HARRINGTON, '47, Chicago, April 23. 
Miss Mary Ellen Dailcy and THO^L^S M. HIG­GINS, '48, Rochester, N. Y., May 28. 
Miss Julia Ann Lupresto and KENNETH R. KEMPF, '43, South Bend, April 30. 
Miss Suzanne Eileen Bockelniann and RUDOLPH 
M. LOPEZ, '46, Corona, CaliL, eariy June. 
Miss Dorothy Jane Nash and EDWARD T. Mc-DERMOTT, '40, Bradford, Pa., April 23. 
Miss Muriel Dunn and RICHARD T. iLATLAV-ISH, '42, West Frankfort, 111., Feb. 26. 
Miss Margaret Kosmerick and WILLIAM C. MEAGHER, '48, Notre Dame, April 23. 
Miss Barbara Harrison and FRANCIS A. MUL­HERN, '38, New York City, March 5. 
Miss Kay Dwyer and EDWARD H. NOONAN, '47, Utica, N. Y., April 23. 
Miss Elizabeth Ackil and JOSEPH F. O'BRIEN. '49, South Bend, April 23. 
Miss Mary Carolyn Powers, ciaughtcr of the late John C. Powers, '20, and ROBERT W. POWELL, '49, Willoughby, O., May 7. 
Miss Rita Man" Gannon and JOHN B. POWERS, '43, in New York recently. Rev. JOSEPH L. POWERS, '37, brother of the groom, performed the ceremony. 
Miss ^lary Ann Doran, daughter of &f. Edward Doran, '20, and JOSEPH E. ROEMER, '49, son of William F. Roemer, Ph.D., '27, South Bend, April 30. 
Miss Geraldine Bcltz and JAMES H. SULLIVAN, '40, HambuiB, N. Y., April 30. 
Miss Mar>' Katherine Kclley and W. ROBERT TUSON, '39, West Palm Beach, Fla., April 26. 
Miss Mildred L. Scheuving and EDWIN L. VOLL, JR., '48, Pittsburgh, Pa., Nov. 25, 1948. 
Miss Laura Hope Daly and JAMES A. WAL­DRON, '37, BronsaiUe, N. Y., May 7. 
Miss Martha Ann Johnson and JOHN J. WAR­REN, '46, Huntington, West Va., recently. 
Miss Dorothy Ann GopsiU and THEODORE S. WEBER, JR., '45, Fairfield, Conn., May 14. 
Miss Margaret Nickobus and HERBERT A. WESTHOFF, '41, St. LouU, Mo., Feb. 24. 
Miss Grace Elizabeth Hiegel and ALOYSIUS J. WRAPE, JR., '47, Conway, Ark., April 18. 
Born fo 
Dr. and Mrs. DANIEL E. BOYLE, '38, a son, their fourth child, Kevin Brendan, Nov. 27, 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. BRENNAN, '41, a son, April 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. BRUCKER, '33, a daughter, Ann Elizabeth, April 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. VI.NCENT F. CARNEY, '29, Jane Frances, their sixth daughter. Mar. 7. 
Dr. and Mrs. JAMES E. CASSIDY, '46, a daugh­ter, Maureen, recently. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES W. COLLINS, «-34, a son, Jbfay 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. GERALD F. CONWAY, '32, a daughter, Mary Joan, May 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. KELLY COOK, '47, a daughter. May 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES V. CUNNINGHAM, JR., '44, a son, April 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. DERENGOSKI, '39, a son, Robert Thomas, Dec. 31, 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. DEVLI.N, '33, a son, April 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. FISHER, '41, a son Tim­othy Joseph, Mar. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. HARRY H. FRANCIS, JR., '30, a son, Harry HI, Oct. 21, 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH F. GALL, '44, a son, Joseph Francis, Jr., April 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. GARVEY, '42, twin daughters, Elizabeth Lee and Susan Marie, May 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH H. HARIU.NGTON, '39, a son, Kevin Lucas, Mar. 4. 
Comdr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. HAWKES, '33, a daughter, Susan Marie, Feb. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. D. BERNARD HENNESSEY, '34, a son, Ke\-in Michael, April 1. The baby was de­livered by Dr. Robert L. Corcoran, '34. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. HICKEY, '43, a daughter, Ellen Louise, recently. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD F. HISS, '40, a daugh­ter. Sheila Mary, May 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD T. KEARNS, ex-29, a son, Dec 28, 1948. 
Mr jn d Mis. JOHN A. KIENER, '32, a son, Paul Joseph, Feb. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN T. KILRAIN, '38, a daughter, Gerry Kathleen, Mar. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE P. KLIER, '40, a daugh­ter, Mary Josephine, Mar. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES A. LaFRATTA, '47, a flaugbter, Joan Marie, Mar. 24. 
Mr. and Mis. GEORGE P. LEYES, '36, a son. May 6. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN JOSEPH MARTIN, '44, a son, IVter Gairett, April 12. Claience J. "Jake" Klioe, '21, is the proud giandfatfaer. 

Mr. and Mrs. DAVID T. MESKILL, '39, a daughter, Susan Adelaide, Jan. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERT L. METZGER, '31, a son, John Peter, Dec. 1, 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. MATHEW J. MIHOLICK, JR., '41, a daughter. May 7. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN L. MURPHY, '35, a daugh­ter, Ellen Margaret, April 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F. NELSON, '42, a son, Kobert Anthony, Feb. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN L. P.WELA, '48, a son, Stephen Lawrence, III, April 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. MILTON J. PIEPUL, '41, a son, John Milton, Feb. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. PRESTWICH, '47, a son. Mar. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. EVALD M. RODIN, '44, a son, James Michael, April 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. ROEMER, JR., '50, a son William, III, April 2. Dr. William F. Roe-mer of the faculty is the proud grandfather. 
Mr. and Mis. RAYMOND M. SCHLECK, JR., '39, a son, in February. 
Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT P. SLATT, '43, a son, Stephen DaWd, April 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT M. TYLER, '29, a daughter, Helen Alice, ^far. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. WALSH, JR., '36, a daughter, Maralee, Feb. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD P. WURT2EBACH, '40, a son, Charles, Mar. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND C. ZALLER, '40, a son, John Raymond, April 30. 
Deaths 
FRANK J. PETRITZ, Rockford, 111., '03, father of Joseph S. Petritz, *32, and George K. Petritz, ex-38, died in Rockford on April 26 following a short illness from pneumonia. 
Member of a widely-known Rockford family, Mr. Petritz was associated with the Modern Laundry for ten years previous to his death. Earlier, he and his brother operated a warehousing business in Rock­ford. 
Born in Anaconda, Mont., on April 21, 1883, Mr. Petritz had lived in Rockford since 1903. Sun'iving him are five children, Mrs. R. J. GafTney, Rockford, Margaret Miriam, Washington, D. C., Franz, Rock­ford, George, Beulah, Mich., and Joseph, New York City, as well as three sisters and two brothers. 
Dr. LESLIE A. YAEGER, '17, died in St. Fran­cis Hospital, Trenton, N. J., on Feb. 28 after a brief illness. His death v%*a5 hastened by phj'sical ail­ments contracted while serving overseas during the war. 
A member of the St. Francis Hospital staff, he was a graduate of the Mar>-Iand University School of Medicine and took additional training at Poly­clinic and Post Graduate Hospitab in New York. He was also school doctor for the Board of Educa­tion for 25 >-ears. Dr. Yaeger was a veteran of both World Wars, ser\'ing in England and Africa as a lieutenant colonel during World War II. Sur\'­iving him are his wife, two sons and a daughter. 
WILLIAM PURCELL, ex-16, died in Mercy Hos­pital in Toledo, O; A stenographic court reporter for many years, he was head of the William Pur­cell Associates and a member of the K. of C. nnd St. Anthony's Orphanage League, and a veteran of World War I. 
Mr. Purcell is survived by his wife, two daughters, four sisters, two of whom are nuns, and a brother. 
Just before these pages of the ALUMNUS tvere made up, the Alumni Office heard that JAMES F. MURPHY, '99, had died of a heart attack on Sept. 12, 1948, in Moline, 111. He was the father of HAYES MURPHY, ex-28. No other information «as immecUately available. Mr. MtuT>hy would have ob­served this June the golden anniversary of Ml graduation. 
ELTON B. CREPEAU, 57 yean old, a Notre Dame student in 190&-08, ^ed oa March 16 {(^low­ing a heart attack in South Bend. For 18 years, Mr. Crepcau taught voice in the Music Department 
»of the University. Surviving him are his wife, a brother and a sister. 
A voice instructor in South Bend for 35 years, %fr. Crepeau had a particularly notable moment when he sang at the inauguration of IVesident War­ren G. Harding. He was educated at Mt. St. Louis College, ^fontreal, Canada, as well as at Notre Dame. For two and one-half years be appeared with the Al G- Field Re\-ue. He was a veteran of World War I. 
PAUL A. ROBERTO, LL.B., '28, died in CIei--e­land Clinic Hospital on March 27, the day before his 47th birthday anniversary. 
A life-long resident of Cleveland, he was long asso­ciated in the wholesale grocery trade in that dty. At his death he was sales manager of the David Lombardy Co. 
He was married in 1941 to Mary Corrigan. Also surviving are his mother, seven sisters and five brothers. 
The funeral Mass was said in St. Ann's Church, Cleveland Heights. 
DR. WILLIAM T. WALSH, recipient of the 1941 Laetare Medal for his "unusual achievements as a Catholic educator and author," died in St. Agnes Hospital, White Plains, X. Y., on Feb. 22 after a long illness. 
A biographer, novelist, and poet. Dr. Walsh was Professor of English at Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in New York from 1933 until his re­tirement in . 1947. 
PATRICK DAVID CREAMER, student in 1910, a member of the Minnesota State Legislature, died in Veterans Hospital, St. Paul, on March 30 after an illness of several weeks. 
Mr. Creamer, state representative from St. Paul's 39th legislative district, was ser\*ing his second term .in the legislature. 
A veteran of World War I, he was a member of the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars and Disabled American Veterans, and is survived by his wife, two daughters, and four sons. 
KENNETH F. NYHAN, '22, a retired attorney and a former assistant prosecuting attorney, died in Toledo, O., on March 31. 
A lifelong resident of Toledo, he was assistant prosecuting attorney in 1931. 
The funeral Mass was offered inRosary Cathedral. He left no immediate sunivors. 
DANIEL J. SKELLY, '14, district attorney and prominent Oil City, Pa., leader in civic, fraternal and spiritual activities, died in Oil City Hospital on Feb. 28 following a sudden heart attack. 
He was first elected district attorney of Venango County in 1930, serving two terms until 1938, and was elected for another four-year term in 1946. 
A World War I veteran, he belonged to tbc American Legion and other fraternal and ciWc or­ganizations as well as professional and law groups. He was director of the Oil City Catholic Charities Board and active in parish work and the St. Vincent de Paul Society. 
Solemn Requiem Mass was celebrated in St. Ste­phen's Church. Thirty members of the Venango County Bar Association were honorary pallbearers. 
Survivors include Mrs. Skelly, a daughter, a son, a brother and three sisters. 
DR. ^VILLIAM J. CONWAY, '27, professor of chemistry at Fordham Uni\-ersity and president of the Teaneck, N. J., Board of Education, died in Holy Name Hospital in that city on Feb. 27 after a short illness. 
Dr. Conway, who completed his studies at Notre Dame in three and one-half years, received an M.S. degree from Columbia in 1929 and his Ph.D. degree in chemistry from Fordham in 1932. He joined the Fordham Univenitr fKulty ia 1929 at the age of 24 and two ytan later was mmAt a piofeaaor. tatt year Fordham presented him mth the **Beae 2lcTe»> ti" medd for his long aad (fistingoished Krvice. 
A widdy Itnowa lectnicr, he freqaentiy gave talks on the wondeis of Aeamtrf to hi ^ school groiqK and ocgamntioos such as the Kinghts of Cohnahui, Lions, aad Kiwanis; and he abo represeated Ford­ham Univexsitr on the nHfio at various times.. 
A member of the Amerkaa Chemical Society, be wrote numerous articles for the ''Journal of Chem­tstry" and other science publications. 
The funeral Mass was said in St. Anastasia Church, Teaneck. He is survived bf a son, a dai^ter and by his mother. 
THOMAS L. DOWNARD, '25, died in IncGamipo­lis on Xbrdi 9. No information other than the news item of his death %iras availaUe. 
DR. THOMAS DONOVAN, '30, who had prac­ticed medicine In Houston, Tex., since 1936, (£ed ­on March 9 after a three-wed illness. 
Dr. Donovan, ytho recdved his M.D. degree from Harvard MetUial School, was one of Houston's best known pediatridans. Durii^ the war he served in' the Army MetKcal Corps, having been one of 12 doctors sent to Tulane University to study troiucal diseases. He later was stationed at an Army ho^tal in Florida in which service men afflicted with tropi­cal diseases were treated. 
He is survived by his wife and three children. Robert Jassoy, '35, is a cousin of Dr. Donovan. 
The ALUHNUS extends sincere sympathy to CLAR­ENCE J. BOURRET, '48, on the death of his father; to RICHARD W. BURKE, '40, on the death of his mother; to Rev. EDMUND V. CAMP­ERS, C.S.C., '35, on the death of his brother to WILLIAM A. A., '22, and ALBERT D . CASTELU­NI, '24, on the death of their father; to JOHN M. CLAHt, JR., ex-37, on the death of his mother; to THOMAS A. EDWARDS. '27, on the Jeath of his wiCe and three of his five dhildren in a 5re which consumed thdr home in Kanaidia, W. Va.; to ROBERT F. FITZGERALD, ex-30, on the death of his wife; to ROBERT A. GRANT,- *28, on the death of his mother; to PAUL F. HANLON, '49, on the death of his father; to BERNARD F. HARTZ, '37, on the death of his mother; to Rev. PETER E. HEBERT. OS.C, '10, on the death of his brother; to JEROME F. HERLmV, '25, on the death of his son; to GERALD J. HOAR, '21, on the death of his brother; to JOHN L. HOEL­SCHER, '42, on the death of bis unde; to KEN­NETH KEHL, ex-45, on the death of his wife; to Rev. ARCHIBALD M. McDOWELL, C.S.a. '29, on the death of his father; to WALTER J., '25, and BERT L. METZGER, '31, on the death of thdr mother; to FRED C MILLER, JR., *29, on the death of his father; to Rev. MICHAEL A., C.S.C., '17, and Rev. JAMES F. MULCAIRE, '29 on the death of their mother; to JOHN C NOR­TON, '23, on the death of hb father; to J. PHIL­IP OPPENHEIM, '48, on the death of his father; to JOHN J. FRIHODA, JR., '49, on the death of his father; to Rev. THOMAS D. RICHARDS, CS.C, '22, on the death of his mother; to BER­NARD W. UNDERRINER, '41, on the death of his father. 
Personofs 

1900-09 
Robert E. Proctor, Monger Bldg.» EUchart, Ind. 

The suit of New Voric Towers, fashionable "Man­hattan hostelry seekii^ an injunction s^ainst Actress Ruth Chatterton, was heard in the court of New York Supreme Court Justice ERNEST E. L. HAM­MER, '01. Tbc hotel was trying to restrain the actress from cocidas in her three-room suite in the Towers. 
EDGAR KOBAK, '08, who recently was succeeded as president of the Mutual Broadcasting System by Fmik White, formeriy president of Cohimhia Rec­ords, has opened an cS&ct as a bnriness consultant. Mutual is one itf hb clients. 
1905-09 
Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C, 
Presbytery; Notre Dame, Ind. 
Rev. WILLIAM F. CUNXINGH.«I, C.S.C, « ^ 
re-elected a \-ice-presidcnt of the Xatlonal Catholic 
Educational Association at its meeting in Philadel­
phia. Brother WILLIAM MANG, C.S.C., '23, M-as 
also elected a vice-president. 
1910 
WALES E. FINNEGAX, of Chicago, has b=cn appointed manager of the Veterans Administration Center in Martinsburg, W. Va. 
1912 
Benedict J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
CHET "MUGGSIE" McGRATH, coach of St. Joseph Catholic High School in St. Joseph. Mich., led die Ponies to the Class D Michigan state basket­ball title at East Lansing. The state tide, first for the litde BerHen County school, was won an ^larch 19, feast of St. Joseph and birthday of the coach. At a dinner in St. Joseph hononng the team and coach. Re\-. ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C, and FRANK TRIPUCKA, *49, were speakers. 
1914 
Ira W. Hurley 231 S. LaSalle St, Chicago, 111. 
.\t the annual tesdmontal dinner in Kansas City hononng the memory* of KNUTE ROCKNE, Indi­anapolis* Xfayor .\L FEENEY said that his teammate turned his own errors as a player into a ruccessful coaching career. "Knutc Rockne fumbled the ball three dmes in his fir^t college game," said iNfayor Feeney, who was a lineman himself on the 1912 nnd *13 teams. ''He seldom fumbled after that and I belie\'c that it was his own miscues as a player that led him to teach sound football as a coach.'* 
Maj-or Fccney was termed "above criticism** by Herb Grafiis, "Chicago Sun-Times** columnist, in his April 8 column. "An unimpeachable honest man,** Fccney was described as having found himself con­fronted with the "necessity of making a choice be­tween not bearing down on *the bo>*s' or not hav­ing a political machine. . . . There was no hesitancy shown by Feeney in making his-choice. He goes with­out a machine. . . . The old-time politicians don't like it a bit.** 
GUS DORAIS has stepped from the football to the business world. For many years athletic director and head football coach at the University of Detroit and later coach of the Detroit Lions, he has Taken over the Chevrolet agency in Wabash, Ind. 
Two sons of TOM CURRY were ordained in the same ceremony on May 26 in St. Joseph's Cathe­dral, Hartford, Conn. 
1915 
James E. Sanford 509 Cherry St., Winnetka, III. 
HAROLD H. MU.XGER has b=en elected 1949 president of the fi\-e-member Ohio Slate Board of Examiners for Architects. He was appointed to a five->-ear 'term on the board by Gov. Trank J. Lausche in 1946. He was 1941-42 president of the Toledo Chapter of the American Institute of Archi­tects. 
JAMES E. SANFORD, merchandising manager of the ^'Chicago Sun-Times," gave a series of five weekly talks on career opportunities in business at the Scliool of Commerce of Loyoht Univcrsitv, Chi­cago. 
GEORGE N'. SHUSTER, president of Hunter College in New York City, is to address the St. Mary's College graduating class at Notre Dame on June 4. The title of his talk: "Hopes and Halos." 
JAMES E. SANFORD, merchandising manager of the ''Chicago Sun-Times," was featured in a series of talks on the subject of "Job Opportunities" for the benefit of graduating Commerce seniors of Loyola University, Chicago. Jim also spoke on the same subject to a group of Notre Dame seniors on May 9. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Justice John E. Mtirtin 
Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice JOH N 
E. MARTIN . '18, was appointed to the state's highest tribunal in June, 1948, after serving 10 years as the state attorney general. First elected attorney general in 1938, he was re­elected for four more successive terms. In 1946 he led the Republican ticket. 
Justice Martin was appointed supreme court justice by Governor Oscar Rennebohm to fill the unexpired term of the late Justice Chester A. Fowler. H e will run for reelec-' tion in 1950. 
It was a natural for Justice Martin to choose the law for a profession. Member of a family long associated with Notre Dame, he is the third generation in his family to practice law, and an uncle also served on the state Supreme Court. Both his grand­father and father practiced in Green Bay, as he did before moving to Milwaukee. 
A former Democrat who joined the Re­publican party, he became an insurgent in 1946 when the party convention failed to endorse him for reelection. Justice Martin ran despite the tactical setback and won a smashing victory. From 1932 to 1934 he was counsel for the state banking commission. 
Justice Martin spent 21 months in uni­form during World War I, serving with the 32nd Division as a lieutenant in Co. E., 127th Infantr)'. 
1916 
Graver F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wis. 
DR. L. A. RAUSCH has been appointed by Mayor GEORGE A. SCHOCK, *I8, to ser\e as South Bend P^k Commissioner. An osteonathjc ph>-sidan and surgeon, Dr. Rausch has ser\*ed since 1929 as chair­man of the Indiana LaSalle Memorial Commission which commemorates ths activities of Robert Rene Ca\'alier, Sieur de LaSa!Ie. 
Ju(^e RUSSELL C. HARDY, Kansas City, who is serving his ninth year as the presiding officer of the Wyandotte County District Court, has been elect* ed »n honorary member of Phi Delta Phi, national honorary legal fraternity, at the University of Kan­sas. He is the first member of the County Bar .Asso> oation to attain honorary status. 
1917 
Bernard J. Vol! 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. 
From BERNARD J. VOLL: 
'^Returning from a trip to Los Angeles. Helen and I stopped in Phoenix where we met CARLETOX BEH and his wife, who were \*acationing ai £1 Estribo. 
**I could not go through ther; without pickmt; up MA'IT TRUDELLE, and cniriously enough^ by pure accident wc came across WALTER HEMMER, '13, who is living in Phoenix and has a gift store there. 
"The eight of us had dinner and we had a creat time discussing Notre Dame and nicking up informa­tion regarding classmates and frxendt. 
"Matt has his own architectural firm and is build­ing some fine Spanish-type mansions." 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy, 1101 N.B.C. 
Building, Cleveland 14, O. 
BILL WHITE has instituted a course in vocational agriculture at Ottawa Catholic High School, Ottawa, III. 
WALTER .A. RICE, of South Bend, was anpointed a member of the Indiana State Alcoholic Beveiage Commission by Gov. Henry I. Schricker. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St, Rochester 7, N. Y. 
From KID ASHE: 
The saddest duty oF a class secretary is that of recording the death of another classmate. Somehow we feel the class membership of 1922 is woven fiauch closer together than is the roster of the a\'erage class. Those who attended our grand sil\*er iubilee reunion in 1947 could not help but notice and roake comment upon the real spirit of friendship and ad­miration each had for his fellow classmate. 
Last issue we gave a farewell salute to EUGENE HEIDELMAN. Now God has called KENNETH NYHAN to further augment the 1922 group in heai'en. Ken died in his home city of Toledo, March 31, His health had not been good in recent years. He was a former assistant prosecuting attorney of Lucas County, O., and also had retired from active practice of law. 
At the time of his death. Ken was practically alone in the world, as far as close relatives were concerned. He was a bachelor. His parents are dead, and there are no brothen or sisters. Ken had made his home in the Commodore Perry Hotel, Toledo. Please do not forget Ken in your pray^irs. He was one grand fellow, and is surely going to he mourned by his many friends of 1922. 
EDWARD GOTTRY is president of Selective PUcement, Inc., %rith offices at 22 East 60th St., New York City. From all reports, Eddie has made rapid strides with his pbcement agency, haring won the confidence of some top flight accounts. Eddie got some rich experience in personnel work during his years o£ service with New York Slate. 
DAN YOUNG and wife Loretta were in the home dty of St. Paul a short time ago when Dan went to visit his sick mother. 
The Dr. DAN SEXTONS of the gieater St. Louis area are now residents of the suburb of Clayton. Their address is 14 Crestwood Drive, Clayton 5 Mo. 
In late March FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, CS.C., of the Holy Cross Mission Band, Eastern Province, was conducting a mission at Assiunption Church, Providence, R. I. 
A very interesting and most welcome letter was received from FATHER JOE RICK, C.S.C, from East Pakistan where he is headmaster of a school. Father Joe would be delighted to hear from lome of his friends, but be Is kept so busy he cannot promise much in the way of return correspondence. His address is: 

FATHER JOSEPH RICK, C.S.C.. 
Ranikong, 
P.O. Hat-Sbibganj. Mymensingh, East Pakistan. 

The secretary has had some pleasant meetings with PAUL and GEORGE McDERMOTT in St. Paul recently; also with 'such fine folk as TOM LEE, PERCE WILCOX, and PAUL CASTNER of the neighboring class of 1923. 
1923 
Paul H. Castncr, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 

FRANK THOMAS, who resigned as football coach of .Alabama University in 1947 because of ill health and took ovTr the post of director of athletics, was stricken with a heart attack on March 20. He was in critical condition for some time, but is reported to be improved. 
Brother WILLIAM M\NG, C.S.C., was elected a vice-president of the National Catholic Education Association at its meeting in Philadelphia. Rev. WILLIAM F. CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C., '07, was also elected a vice-president. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 4 Lyons Place Larchmont, N. Y. 

GENE OBERST, athletic director at John Carroll University, Cleveland, announced the appointment of Elmer Ripley as basketball coach. Ripley, W'ho left Georgetown for John Carroll, coached the Notre Dame squad during the 1943»46 season. 
CLIFTON McINTOSH. resides at 739 N. Union St., Fremont, Nebr. Correct that roster which was sent to you. 
1926 
Victor F. Lenuner, Box 661, Ironwood, Mich. 

CARSON DALTON has been appointed general manager of the overseas distributors' branch of the Ford. Motor Co,-The'branch is a new unit of Ford located at Jersey City, N. J. 
JOE WAGNER is employed by the DetWng Co., 1515 N. Al\-arado St., Los Angeles 26, Calif. 
DAN BRADY expected to attend the Foreign Trade Convention at Notre Dame, sponsored by the College of Commerce early in May. Dan is with Aldoni & Co., 418 Olive St., St. Louis 2. 
BOB ANDREWS is now residing in Elkton, Md., at 325 Hollingsworth St. 
Cmdr. FRANK BON. USN, has been named direc­tor of the Administrative Division of the Office of the Judge Advocate General of the Na\T, in Wash­ington, D. C. He served as a reserve officer during the war, earning the Bronze Star, and then trans­ferred to the regular Na\'y as a law specialist. 
JOE DAWES was appointed judge of the first judicial district, Leavenworth, Kans. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station 
WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 

TOM EDWARDS wife and three of Rvc chil­dren Dcrished in a 6rc that razed their Kanawha City, W. Va., home in the early morning of April 
23. Tom awakened at 1:30 a. m. to find the £e\*en­room house enveloped in flames. He roused his wife, and while she went to rescue the children, Tom carried two, a six-year-old son and 15-yeai-old daughter to safety. He re-entered the house but found the upstairs an impenetrable mass of flames. He did not see his wife or children again, although he heard their screams. Rescue attempts by firemen were futile. The dead are his wife, Henrietta, 38, Henrietta Brannon, 13, Thomas A., Jr., 7, and Mary Whelan, 5. 
BERNIE ABROTT, an Oakland, Calif., attorney, has been named referee in bankruptcy of northern California. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Arthur W. MiMuUen 

ARTHUR W. MCMULLEN, '25, is the divi­sion manager of the Northern Division (which comprises Illinois, Wisconsin, Iowa, Nebraska, North and South Dakota and Minnesota) of the National Cash Register Co. 
Mr. McMullen joined the company in 1929 as a salesman. In 1937 he was made branch manager at Duluth, Minn., and in 1942, branch manager at St. Paul. He was elevated to his present position in 1945. 
The father of five children, he resides at 1515 Colfax St., Evanston, 111. 
You all noticed all the wxite-up and pictures fea­turing ANDY SLEIGH, Jr., N.D. freshman, in the ALUMNUS before this one. ANDY (the old man, that is) was tickled no end and said so in a typical Sleigh letter to the editors. 
1928 

Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams St, Chicago 44, lU. 
From LOU BUCKLEY: 
JOHN ROBINSON had been caUed back to ac­
tive duty in the Navy prior to the time of our re­
union, so was unable to get away. He was stationed 
in Washington until Oct. 20 when he returned to 
civilian life. John writes as follows from The Rob­
inson School, 18 Highland St., West Hartford, Conn. 
"Having finished my assignment for the Navy, I returned to Connecticut in October and fulfilled my lifetime ambition of establishing a private day school for boys. We opened for the winter term in January. I acquired a large estate in West Hartfoid. The future looks very bright. The school is for boys from grade five to grade nine. I hope you have a chance to come this way soon so that you can see our 
place. "After school gets under way next year, I intend to visit Notre Dame during the football season. The welcome mat will always be out for the men of our class if they come this way. The main house on she campus has twenty rooms so you can see t can take care of a good number. **You will probably be interested in knowing that I am the father of five children—four girls and one son. I have seen JUDGE JOHN CULLINAN since 
27 

my return to Gonnectiait. Where is BILL CNEILL? I beard he was somewhere in New Yo ^ State. I am sorry I missed my old Toommate, HAROLD RUPPEL. by not get^m )»K]t last June." 
We appreciated heading from you, John, and «rish you success in your new worlu Let me know yAuem you have some sons oC *28 men in yoor-tdiooL You'll probably be faearins' Crom me when my nz­year-old reilbead readies fifth grade. 
I was pleased to bear that ART STENIUS is DOW a professor of edncation at Wayne Univeruty, Detroit. He returned to Detroit over a year ago after a year's leave of absence to do fifan production worit in New Yo ^ In respomc to my request for news which was forwarded to bim from New Yoi^ Art writes: 
"Upon my return to Detrmt I became ooonccted with Wayne Univetsity on a futt-tiroe bans, fte­viously I had been on tbe staff as a special lecturer while serving as Erector of visual and radio cdnca* tion in the Detroit Public SdKiob. At the present time I am one of those things commonly referred to as a professor of education. I keep my band in Sfan producUon work, however, and as a result I get back to New York about ooce a month. Somehow I fail to bump into any members of our class. I tmder­stand that WALT LAYNE has quit his ecCtonal trork wi ^ one of. tbe bigger pubUshii^ compames in New York to give fuB time to his writiiv. As this was his aim when he left Notre Dame in 1928, I suppose that be is one of ns who can be chalked up as having succeeded in reaclui^ his goal. 
**During the past couple of yean 1 have tees FRANCIS STROHM a few times. He is now a C.PJ\. with offices in Delaware, Ohio, and doing very nicely, what with every new federal and state statute demanding more audited reports. He is Siow married and as of a little more than a ^a r ago the father of a \'ery cute yooi^ter. 
"I bump into LOU NORMAN every once in a while when I get up in the General Motors Build­ing here in Detroit, and rub ellxnvs widi the cxecu* tives. On my last vint I just missed him as be left for New York to help G-M. with its big Ne^ YoA show. 
**lt was awfully xuce' hearing from you and I promise that if I bump into any of the other boys in our class I will either be<kle them into writing * you or pass on to you whatever infonnation I pidt up." 
At loi^ last I ha%*e been successful in getting m response from one of the California *28 men, thanks to BOB NICKELLS, who wrote from 4206 Franklin Ave., Los Angeles 27, Calif., where he is in the resilient flooring contractile business. Bob says: 
"My old roommate, JERRY DeCLERCQ, works for the Detroit Division of Standard Brands, Inc., and lives in Royal Oaks, Mich., with his wife and their twins, Kathcryn and Tonmxy. 
**My %rife, son and I, formerly Chicagnans, will soon have resided seven years in Los Alleles—prac­tically natives now and doubtlessly here to stay. Our son, Lynn, is in his first year at Notre Dame High, Sherman Oaks. 
"VERNON RICKARD and other members direct­ing our dub, induing ED CUNNINGHAM, mem­ber of our class, did a bai^-up job this past year, as did others before them. Anyone who witnessed the Rally on the eve of the ND-USC game will forever applaud the fdlows who worked so enthu­siastically for its success. 
"In adfUtion to seeing Ed Cunningham at everv dub meeting, I also see and chat with CHARLES MURPHY, an auditor with North American Air­craft; also PAT VARRAVETO with Lockheed Mr-craft. 
"At our Sports Dinner, otir Ruest of honor was Dr. JAMES A. REYNIERS, Director of LOBUND, who was in L.A. fi^ a series of lectures. I had tbe pleasure of chatting briefly with him and reminiscing our student days and hours we and other students spent in tbe DeClercq home." 
Bob, I hope you will foBow ART STENIUS apinroach and heckle any of the '28 fdlows yon see in CaUfornia, especially Ed Cuniungham, into writing. 
Now let's pick up a most welcome and isewsy communique by JOHN IGOE from 19386 Shordand, Rocky River, Ohio: 
"It was good of you to send me that card asUng for some notes for it sparred me to a diore that I have been trying, without success, to accomplish since my return from the Reunion. I came home full of big ideas about writing letters of thanks to FATHERS GALLAGAN and WALSH for tbdr contributioas to 
our memorable weekend, to JOE MORRISSEY for his pictures and to WILLARD WAGNER for no other reason than to ask hou' many aspirins he ate and how many hours he slept in recuperating from his heroic efforts for his classmates. But all my in­tentions became bricks in that well known pave­ment to the LoH-er World. So thanks for the card that finally got me to the keyboard of my Corona. 
" I ha\'e seen a great many of the fellows since last you beard frrom me and if you do not hold tnc to any chronological order I will try to bring you up to date on the '28ers from this vicinity. Had lunch in Columbus recently with JOHN' FONTANA. John is doing a wonderful job as a lau-^er in Columbus, but in so doing has lost none of the elan that made htm Gallipolis' outstanding contribution to our class. 
"A new resident in Columbus is JOE KINNEARY, who has deserted the hills of Cincinnati for ihc flats of our state capitol. Joe viras appointed First Assistant to the Attorney General—an honor that he wears lightly and with merit. Fontana and 1 have decided that our class is about to lose its most stub­bom bachelor—but Kinncary just grins and goes on living month by month at the Athletic Club. 

"Do you remember ALEX DOMBEY (DOM­BROSKI) who lived in our section of Sonhomorc Hall and had some small ambitions in the direction of replacing Albert Spalding as America's outstanding violinist? Well, I chanced across an article in the Columbus paper telling of a huge settlement (record breaking, no less) adjudged against one of the rail­roads on behalf of an injured employee and the winning lawTer was our own Alex. I called him and learned that he had finished his law at Ohio State and sta>*ed on to practice in Columbus. 
"And now a word to the politicians of our Class —the doughty aspirants for the presidency of the Senior Class who schemed in smokc-fiUed rooms, took pools, listed friends, possibles, impossibles, per­haps even made a nine-minute novena or two that they would achie\'e this great oflice only to find themseU-es unelected, yeah worse—unnominated. The man behind die successful candidate has in the en­suing years pro\-ed that he \^'as no amateur in the great game of politics—and as schoolbov-s dabbling in the business we were greatly overmatched against JIM SCHOCKNESSY. Jim is in Columbus, a prac­
. tidng attorney—but more important, the man re­puted to be the closest adxisor and confidant of our great Gox-ernor Frank Lausche. And in the not distant future when and if Governor Lausche lakes his **Squarc Deal" banner into the stage of national politics all of us would-be shapcrs of Senior Class histor>' may salve ourselves with " I politicked with Jim Shockness^- at Notre Dame. 
**In Louisville I called our old pal JOHN BUSCHMEYER to find out why he had not put in bis appearance at the Reunion. John was all set *.o be on the camptis when he was beset by some neu­ralgic condition that made movement impossible. I gave him all the details and got his assurance that when w-e meet again he will be on hand. John has achieved a national reputation for his work as head of tne Louis\-ilIe City Hospital and also, I add with complete surprise, as a judge of bull dogs­
"Vesterday (March 27) the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland sponsored the Annual Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfast, and it was a highly success­ful function. Among the more than 250 attending were many from our class including JOHN VIC­TORYN who is one of our town's leading sur­geons, GEORGE SMYTH, now a detective of wde repute for his work on racial problems, BILL BYRNE, whose wit is worthy of the air-waves (and it is in no way similar to the alleged wit on them now), TOM BYRNE, sUlI associated with the Tele­phone Company, EDMUND McCLARNON (one of the few classmates I have been unable to identify immediately on meeting), heading the Claims Diri­sion of the Travelers, PIERCE O'CONNOR who is diligently practicing Jaw, and PAT CANNY, whose yeoman efforts made the day a success and who is still giving his sU for the Erie Railroad. 
"A week or so ago I met SANDY LECHO-WrrZ at a Catholic Forum on parent-child rela­tionships. He had just left a job handling industrial relations for Eaton Mfg., and was then dickering for another more suitable connection. Last night CHET RICE and his wife stopped in at the house for a short session, during which his wife and mine joined in a brief but thorough review of "What's Wrong With Husbands," while Chet and I secretly pondered on the delights of stag aiTairs. Chet is a inanufacturer's agent and travels the state with a line of builder's supplies. 
"We had the Kmghts of Columbus track meet here during the month and JACK LAVELLE was 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
William H. Foley 

WILLIAM R . FOLEY, '37, who was an as­sistant district attorney in Brooklyn, N. Y., is now counsel to the House Judiciary Com­mittee in Washington. The chairman of the committee is Representative Emanuel Celler. 
Mr. Foley joined the district attorney's staff in 1941 as a criminal law investigator. After serving in the Army throughout most of the war, he rejoined the staff. He assisted in the prosecution of the Mergenthaler case. 
Connected with the New York State Labor Relations Board in 1937-38, Mr. Fo­ley in 1939 was with the World's Fair Corp. He is a member of the Brooklyn Bar Associ­ation, the Cathedral Club and the Emerald Association. He and Mrs. Foley reside at 505 Elmwood Ave., Brooklyn. 
in town to act as starter. I did not see Jack, but Canny reports that he has lost no weight, tlid a top-flight job at the meet and at the Canny festive board. 
"Last time I was in Indianapolis I called BOB KIRBY, but he was away on a lengthy vacation. JOE BRIEG, who is assistant editor of the "Cath­olic Universe-Bulletin," plays an active part in Catholic affairs in Cleveland. Last time I saw Joe he was a member of a panel discussing some phase of Catholic Action." 
[Editor's Note: After writing this letter, JOHN IGOE was critically injured in an automobile acci­dent. He is no*v recovering.} 
I appreciated having a letter from AUGIE GRAMS under the letterhead of A. Grams & Sons, Manufacturers of Feeds, 207 S. Front St., La-Crosse, Wis. Other than a letter from BOB KNOX and the pictures from JOE MORRISSEY, Augie says he hasn't heard from anyone since the reunion. Augie has four daughters, the oldest of whom is at St. Mary's. Are there any other '28 daughters at St. Mary's? 
ED McKEOWN is well on his way to recovery from the serious auto accident which I reported last month. At the present writing, Mart:h 3t, he is home and getting around in a wheel chair. Ed re­ports that HOWIE PHALIN has just returned from a trip to California and Mexico. Ed also tells tnc that GEORGE COURY now makes monthly business trips to Chicago from Florida. 
It was good to hear from DAVE KREMBS from 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
410 N. Midiigut Ax-e., Stevens Point, Wis. Dave is teaching physical education and general mathematics and be assists with athletics. He mentioned that RAY MOCK of St. Paul and their daughter usually spend part of their vacation at the Krembs cottage in Wisconsin. The Kiembs hav*e a boy who is two years old. Dave expressed regret at not being able to attend the leunion, but primuses to be present at our 25-year reunion. 
Thanks JOHN ROBINSON, ART STENIUS, BOB NICKELLS, JOHN IGOE, AUGIE GRAMS and DAVE KREMBS for your cooperation in mak­ing another newsy column possible. We hope these letters will inspire others to decide to write. 
BILL JONES, Washington, D. C , has been ap­pointed a member of the Committee on Legal Ethics of the American Bar Association. 

DR. FRANK G. GUARNIERI, of 654 Fairway Drive, is practidng medicine in Warren, Ohio. 
DONOVAN JOHN RAU is an auditor with the Michigan Department of Revenue at Lansing, Mich. His home address is 924 N. Walnut. 
Prof. RONALD E. RICH was elected president of the Lay Faculty Club of Notre Dame. Other officers elected were EDWARD KRAUSE, '34, vice-president, and Prof. Jack Miller, secretary-treasurer. 
1929 
James R. Nowery, P.O. Box 1545, Shrcveport, La. 

JOHN M. GILTINON is practicing law in Chi­cago. H e resides at 6400 S. Normal Blvd. LEO SCHRALL is coach of baseball at Bradley University, Peoria, III. 
EDWARD J. "JACK" McGRATH, Cleveland, has done it with a mirror. He in\*entcd a Constant-Light Ray posture analysis machine whidi is being used by tailors to fit •customers perfectly and by Western Reserve University to study and anal>-ze pos­ture. The machine, through the use of a parabolic mirror juid a specially developed light, throH-s a shadow which is not distorted. The silhouette is photographed full face and side view, thus providing tailors with a "dummy" that eliminates the need for any fittings. Jack u-as director of ph>'sical educa-Uon and head {ootball coach at the University of Louisville, and instructor in phy-sical education at Western Reser\-e Uni\-ersity, where he specialized in posture aiudyus and working out| corrective cxer­dses. He sa>-s that the machine "shouldn't work ac­cording to physics, but it does." 
Dr. BASIL RAUCH, who holds advanced degrees from Yale and Columbia, has been named associate professor and executive officer of the Department of History at Barnard College, New York. He is the author of *The Histor>- of the New Deal, 1933-38" and "Ameiican Interest in Cuba, 1848-1855," as well as a number of magazine articles. At his summer home in Pike's Fall, Vt., Basil experiments with the de\-elopment of tree crops. 
An article by JAMES S. MITCHELL, executive secretary of the National Council of Catholic Men, appeared in the ^fay 8 issue of "Our Sunday Vis­itor." It dealt with the work of men's organization in parishes. 
JOHN S. MURRAY is the president of Murray & Co., Inc., management consultants at 203 N . Wa­bash A\-e., Chicago. 
Lt. Col. JAMES C. O'CONNOR was appointed executi\-e officer of the 1100th Air Base Group nt Boiling Field, Washington, D. C. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St, Philadelphia, Pa. 

JACK ELDER has been appointed Cleveland manager for the Sindair Refinery Co. His chief problem, he says, is finding housing (he has Rvc children, the oldest only 7). He writes: 
"Have had vay pleasant visits with TO M BYRNE, PAT CANXY, AL GRISANTI, CHUCK ROHR, GEORGE BLATT and several others. As time goes on I'm sure I'll meet and get to know better many of the fellows who are doing a good job for the Alma Mater here and at schooL I just talked to DON MILLER and he's looking for a house for me, 
too. 
"Should any of the gang be coming through here I would be only too happy to meet with any of them." 
CYRIL J. *'CY'* MULLEN has been named copy chief of the visual copy department of Needham, Louis and Brorby, Inc., advertising agency. He was radio copy chief of the Chicago agency. 
Judge CORNELIUS J. CAREY, Jr., who has presided in the Franklin County, N. Y., court since 1937, announced that he will not be a candidate for reelection this year. At the end of his term he will devote his full attention to his pri\'ate law practice. 
Mrs. LOUIS HASLEY, wife of the Notre Dame professor, is the author of **I Like Married Life'* in the March issue of "The Sign." 
Rev. RAYMOND F. TOTTEN, who was ordained on Oct. 30, 1948, is sen-ing in the diocese of Co­lumbus, Ohio. His mailing address is 1651 E. ^fain St., Columbus. 
1931 
Walter F. PhUipp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 

DICK DONOGHUE, who 5er\ed as purchasing agent of steel products for the Easy Washing ^fa­chine Corp., has been named director of purchases. Formerly emp1o>'ed in the sales department of ^fetro­Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures and later associated with the American Steel and Wire Co., Dick joined the Easy Washing Machine Corp., Sjracuse, N. V., in 1947. He scr\-ed four years in the Navy during the War. 
JAMES R. SKAHAN announced his candidacy for the Board of Assessors of Belmont, Mass. Father C. BOURKE MOTSETT is now pastor of St. Paul's Catholic Church, Danville, HI. 
BEN OAKES, of TWA, who was with Bishop Pierre-Marie of Tarbcs-Lou'rdes in his tour of the country, had seen JOE LENIHAN, '30, and BILL O'BRIEN in New York City, JACK SAUNDERS and ART McMANMON in Boston, and ED MEH REN in Los Angeles. The bishop and Ben were at Xotre Dame on their tour. 
1932 
James K. Collins, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, O. 

EUGENE "BARNEY" BARNHARDT, of Stur­geon Bay, Wis., was one half of the team which won the doubles championship at the American Bowling Congress it Atlantic City. 
H.\RRY KILBURGER was sworn in as Common Pleas Court Judge of Fairfield County, Ohio, by Chief Justice Carl V. Wcygandt of the Ohio Su­preme Court. Appointed by Gov. Frank Lausche in 1946 to serve an unexnlred term, he was elected to a six-year term last November. He is the youngest member of the bar ever elected to the local bench. 
The news of the ordination of Rev. JEROME J. WILSON, C.S.C., was carried in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, but not mentioned was a circum­stance that made It unusual. Jerry was preparing at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C , for his ordination in June when, on the evening of Feb. 6, he vi^s infomicd of the serious illness of his mother in Pittsburgh. Immediately preparations were begun for his ordination next morning. The Chancery* OHitx waived all the usual formalities and Bishop Turquc­til was the ordaining prelate. The next day he laid his first Mass in the little hallway outside his mother's bedroom and administered Holy Commu­nion to her. He returned to Holy Cross College to complete his theological studies which began in 1942. He will sing his first solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church, Pittsburgh, on June 12. 
JAMES MARTIN REniY is a sales rcpresentafiw of the Warren Petroleum Corp. His home address is 3325 S. Yorktown, Tulsa. OUa. 
JAMES J. LEWIS is practicing law at 135 S. I.aSalle St., Chicago 3. 
JOHN F. MURPHY is with the sewage treatment plant in Detroit. His home address is 2146 Fairview A\e., Detroit 4. 
VINCENT E. TURLEY is director of tenant re­lations for the Hartford, Conn., Housing Authority. He lives at 82 Fetu St. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
BeT. Frantas B. Thornton 

A book about books. How to Improve Your Personality by Reading, by Rev. Fran­cis B. Thornton, '31, is the May selection of the Catholic Literary Foundation. 
The first associate editor of The Catholic Digest, Father Thornton has achieved liter­ary prominence as the editor of the anthol­ogy. Return to Tradition, which was pub­lished last summer. 
His new book has been reviewed as being "an easy, personalized, humorous approach to the subject of reading and to the types of reading which perfect, ornament and make the personality significant. . . . With crisp enthusiasm and a swift humor. Father Thornton has written a book that analyzes completely the practical as well as spiritual reasons for reading, embracing, too, all those types of reading which ought to prove of permanent value and usefulness." 
After being graduated from Notre Dame, Father Thornton attended St. Thomas Sem­inary at St. Paul, Minn. Following his ordi­nation he continued his studies at Oxford and in France. On his return to the U. S. he taught at Duquesne and Manhattan-ville, and finally was appointed to the posi­tion he now holds, that of first associate editor of The Catholic Digest. 
1933 
Joseph A. McCabe, Rosary College, River Forest, 111. 

MIKE KOKEN, South Bend, for the past 10 yean sales manager of Tucker Freight Lines, Inc., South Bend and Chicago, fias been named manager of the newly created Steel Division of the company. He served in the Army during the war, being wounded in action in Europe. 
WILLIAM E. CASE, of 1220 Princeton St., Elk­hart, Ind., is now associated with Tti-County Bev­erages, Inc., in South Bend. 
Rev. MAURICE E. POWERS. C^.C , who m s wnior f>i«pl»iii at Fact LeiveawMlh, Kam., i> Bmr in Tokro, Japui, yuhen be is aaistaat theater Amp-lain of the Far East Commaiid. 
1934 

Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Gomineicial Sdv^ entt Corp., 17 E. 42iid St, New Yoifc (Sty 
ROBERT C ' CHENAL has been appointed aais­tant trust officer of the Second National Bank, Cin­cinnati. He joined the bank in 1946 alter tCTving durii« the war as a fidd lErector for the Red Croai. 
More than 500 friends and former nei^bboes of ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE of Holy Cross Parish. Chicago, presented him with a new car at a testi­monial banquet in his honor at the parish. FRANK LEAHY and Mayor Martin Kenndly of Chicago paid tribute to him. 
1935 

FranUyn C. Hochreiter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimoie 12, Md. 
From HOCH: Here we aie again, gang, and stiB we have not been able to "draw blood" from JACK CARBINE! Could it be that his practice before the Supreme * Court of Vermont ke ^ him too busy, or has lie just forgot his editorship "daze" when copy Hfss the food of the thing. 
We have several communications to report and a surprise phone call. First of all, our apologies to GEORGE FOSS because we fear we neglected to announce his second dai^hter born July 24, 1948. This one is Barbara Ann. George also has another daughter, five, and a son, seven. 
Then we had the following letter from JIM COR­RIGAN in Febniarr. He wrote from St. Kbfy's Col­lege, Kans. We saw Jim ooce while we were at St. Louis Umveruty (1940-43) asid he was asugned there. We appreciated your note, Jim, and we vash you well in your new life to begin June 14. 
''I notice io the ALUMNUS that you occasionally pick up a faint ugnal from some remote soul of the class of '35, so bearing from me should not be a complete shock to you. WbiJe spealdi^ of the ALUMNUS let me also remark that your Sdeitty xa keeping our class represented in its '•"^'"^"f has not gone unnoticed. I have always enjoyed the column and been edified by your constancy. You will be happy to know that you can depend on my vote for 
lUv. JatooM WlMn. CSXL '32. 
doiii«d in Woddngloii ia Tmbrntof^ Bm is th« bffoUwr of FHts ^Hltoii. '7$, (tight abvw). 
30 
your re-election should anyone be so rash as to chal­lenge you position. 
**It may hax-c leaked through to you sometime in the last ten years that I am a Jesuit and have been since 1939. What brings forth this letter principally is the fact that I am.to be ordained to the priest­hood on June 14 of this >-ear and I am moved to commend m>'se]f to the prayers of my good class­mates and to assure them of my rcmembcrance of them. My first Solemn Mass will be in Milwaukee on June 19. 
**To an>-one at all familiar with Jesuit life '.he details of the last several years are quite usual. Studies in and about St. Louis absorbed about six years, then I taught for a \-e3r at St. Louis High School and for the past two and a half years have been boning ThcoIog>- out here on the prairies of Kansas. During that time the .ALUMNUS and your column have been almost my only contact with things Notre Dame so you can sec how valuable they were to me­
"My brother JOHN, also of the Class of 1935. js working in Philadelphia for the American Stainless Kitchen Co. and occasionally meets the Notre Dame locals there. 
**Recent pictures of your smiling worr\'-frec visage pec'ring over the edge of banquet tables here and there assure me that you are cnjo\-ing good health and life in general. Please give my regards to mu­tual acquaintances, particularly to DR. SCHOLZ whom i often .see at your elbow. 
' "Thank you again for your good work. HOCH." 
The middle of April brought us a letter from BEX BEYRER, one of the few of our '35 crowd in social work. Ben brings us news of two of the men of whom we have heard little recently. Sa>-s Ben— 
'*You certainly are performing a \-aluab1e ser\'icc to our class by the neu-s that you report so faith­fully to the ALUMNUS. 
FRANK KOPPELBERGER is still the big boss for the Electric Auto-Lite Co. in Bay City, Mich- Ife is now the father of a boy as well as a girl. 
"Very active in social work here in Florida is ROBERT MOSHER. executive secrctarj- of the Community Chest in Miami and a member of our class, I believe. 
**I have enjoyed following your career in social work and would apnreciate hearing about your new position with the Housing Authority. One of our professors was with the Chicago Housing .Authority for several years. In the April issue of "Public \Ve\­
fare." I have an article proposing a s>-stem of family allou-ances for the United States. I would appreciate your comment. Our second child is due in .August. 
"What's the news from TOM PROCTOR?" Thanks for the letter, Ben. and the news. We'll be looking for the article. The subject sounds like distributiw justice. We have had an addition to our Baltimore Club with the transfer of GENE O'BRIEN from South Bend to the east during the past few weeks. Gene, iice-president and treasurer of the O'Brien Corpora­tion, has come to Baltimore to head up the eastern division of his company, which last year bought out the White Paint Company of this city. 
Gene was voted outstanding young man of South Bend for 1948 recently, by the Junior Association of Commerce, and also was voted outstanding young man of the paint industry by the National Paint and Decorators Association. 
LOU HRUBY called us the other day while he was passing through the city. Lou, who has spent ten ^ycars on the west coast for General Electric, is now back in the native city of Cleveland. He is headquartered at Nela Park, and is retail sales specialist in large lamps with the nation as his territory. Lou has four children—three girls and a boy. It was good to hear from you, Lou, and we await your visit in June. 
ROY SCHOLZ, retired as president of the Notre Dame Club of Baltimore on April 25, and was pre­sented with the Uni\-ersity's scrool as the *'Notre Dame Man of the Year" in the Baltimore Club. Your scribe suoxeded Roy to the local presidency. 
This is it for now—keep the letters rolling in. 
GEORGE L. ISSELMANN is a sales represena­tiw of the Alumnlnum Goods Mfg. Co., Glen Rock, N. J. He resides at 16 Abbinglon Terrace. 
GEORGE MELINKOVICH has been named head coach at Utah Sute Agricultural College in Logan, Utah. His teams at Rutherford, N. J. high school 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Joseph A. Breig 
.'^.'isistant managing editor of The Catho­lic Universe Bulletin in Cleveland, author of the widely-admired column, "The Word," in America, national Catholic weekly, short story writer, essa>ast, JOSEPH A. BREIG, '27, of Cleveland is recognized as one of the most influential Catholic writers of the day. 
Mr. Breig began his writing early. At Notre Dame, he was news editor and editor in chief of the Scholastic, was on the Dome staff and won first prize for a short story and first prize for a scenario in a state-wide writing contest. From 1927 to 1935 he was successively reporter, editor and publisher of The Vandergrift News in Pennsylvania, moving to The Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph, where he was reporter, re-write man, feature writer and columnist until he joined The Universe Bulletin in 1945. 
Father of five children and busy as a newspaper man all his adult life, Mr. Breig has found the time to contribute to innu­merable magazines such as Columbia, Com­monweal, The Sign, The Catholic World, America and The Catholic Digest. 
Perhaps his secret of accomplishment can be found in an answer which he gave in an alumni questionnaire of 1945. The question was: "What, after atending Notre Dame and reading reports of its progress and plans, do you believe to be the University's most urgent needs? 
Mr. Breig's answer: "Redoubled devotion to the Eucharistic Christ and to Our Lady, resulting in making Notre Dame a power­bouse of words and works to combat the paganization of the nation." 
took live state titles during his eight-year tenure as head coach. 
JAMES A. MAROHN has been named treasurer 
of the Noma Electric Corp., New York. He joined 
the company in 1946 as controller and assistant 
treasurer. He prev*iousIy M-as u-ith the accounting 
firm of Ernst & Ernst, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
G. ALBERT LAWTON has been made assistant director of agencies of the Aetna Life Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn. 
1936 
Joseph F. Mansfield, 349 Weaver St., 
R.F.D. 4, Greenwich, Conn. 
FRANK CANE, M.A., '36 executive officer of the California State Board of Corrections, has generously sent to the University copies of the Second Progress Report of the Special Crime Study Commission in California. Frank is a member of the Commission's administrative staff. 
DON ELSER, football and basketball coach at Hoiace Mann High School, Gary, Ind., spoke at the Peoria, 111., Club's U.N.D. Night celebration. 
WAYNE MILLNER, former Washington Redskins star, has been signed as an end coach by the Chi­cago Hornets of the All-America Professional Foot­ball League. 
GEORGE IRELAND visited the campus during the Easter holiday. He is coach at Marmion Military Academy, .Aurora, 111. 
JOHN F. WHITAKER is vice-president and gen­eral sales manager of the Whitaker Cable Corp. He resides at 5338 Falmouth Rd., Kansas City, Kans. 
WILLIAM T. ROTHERT is in business at 42 S. George St., York, Pa. 
1937 
Frank J. Rcilly, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., New York City 62, N. Y. 
Father JOE ENGLISH, M.M., visited the campus on April 26. 
ProL ED FISCHER of the Department of Jour­nalism, predicted that some of the babies born today vnW live to peruse a headline reading, **Last Newsboy Dies." He said, in an article appearing in "America," national Catholic weekly neu*smaga­zine, that facsimile neu-spapers wilt be transmitted directly into the homes of the nation by radio. £d, besides doing really outstanding work in the Jour­nalism Department, is doing widely-commended work as editor of "The University Today" section of the ALUMNUS. 
HAROLD E; HEI.XEMAXX, head of the Aero­nautical Production Engineering Dept. of the Sperry Gyroscope Co., was the subject of an article appear­ing in the **Sperry Engineering ReWew of January-February, 1949. 
JOHN BENNETT SHAW has bought the Tulsa, OUa., Book Shop. On the side he runs an oil-drilling company and a 312-acre wheat farm. A col­lector of early Hemingu-ay items, Sherlock Holmes and £. E. Cummings, he has now gone into the business of selling books. 
C. JOSEPH KALMAX is a patent attorney with the Eclipse-Pioneer Di\'isIon of Bendix Aviation at Teterboro, X. J. 
1938 
Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marble Hall Rd., Baltimore, Md. 
RAY MEYER, head basketball coach at DePaul Uni\"ersity, Chicago, was the speaker at the Kiwanis Club annual testimonial dinner for the Mishawaka High SchooFs \-arsity basketball squad on April 5. 
HARVEY G. FOSTER, special agent in charge of the Indiana FBI, won the annual Indiana Pistol Shooting championship. In the second successive year that he has won the championship, he scored 1,664 points of a possible 1,800. He fired both .22 and .38 caliber pistols. Special Agent Foster spoke to the Bendix Super^-isors Club in South Bend on March 3. 
JAMES J. RAAF, manager of the International Machinery Co., has been transferred from Lima, Peru, to La Paz, BoHWa. He reported that HARRY KENNEDY, '31, and RENE OTERO both live in La Pu , Harry ha\*ing just returned from a visit to the U. S. and Notre Dame. Jim also met Father GUNNINGHA&I from Notre Dame when Father nsited La Paz for an education conference. Jim expects to return to the U. S. for a vacation this coming fall. 

JOHN A. SCOTT, director of public relations for the South Bend city schools, gives special lectures on journalism at Notre Dame. He was general chairman of the 1949 annual Boy Scout conclave held in South Bend. 
Dr. EDWIN M. KINDERMAN is a chemist with General Electric Co., Hanford Works, Richland, Wash. 
1939 

Vincent DeCoursey, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kans. 
An article by JERRY GREEN, assistant archivist at Notre Dame, is featured in the .April issue of the "Catholic Historical Review." 
P.-MJL C. TULLY was named temporary chairman of an Organization of alumni of Catholic universi­ties and colleges being formed in Washington, D. C. 
VAL DEALE is an attorney with Radio Corp. of America at Front and Cooper Sis., BIdg. 15-3, Camden. N. J. 
ANDREW F. WILSON, Detroit, is the proud papa of three sons ranging in age from 15 months to five years. 
ROBERT F. SCHRAMM has a florist shop at 
1315 Cherry St., Toledo, O. 
1940 

Robert G. Sanford 1103 E. Kensington Blvd, Shorewood, Wis. 
The first issue of "Modern Sanitation." edited by JA\!ES V. CAWLEY, who h assisted by ROBERT WALSH, '48, was in the mail last month. Jim in­vites any alumnus conversant with the field of indus­trial or institutional sanitation to confer with him regarding material for the magazine. The address is Powell Magazines, Inc., 855 Avenue of the Americas, New York 1, N. Y. 
Dr. K. N. WALTERS, chiropodist, has opened new offices at 1 Chicago Ave., Oak Park. IlL He ser\ed five years with the Army Medical Corps. 
KENNETH "RED" OBERBRUNER is director of athletics and coach at AliUon College, Milton, 
Wis. 
HAROLD V. BOISVERT, law professor at Na­tional University in Washington, D. C , headed the receiving line at the reception given on Feb. 15 in Washington in honor of top Democratic leaders. Harr>* is president of the Young Democrats of the District of Columbia. 
Dr. WAYNE JOHN PENCIL is a practicing sur­geon in Monroe, Wis. His address is 829/2-18th .Ave. 
FRANCIS A. HUGHES is enrolled at the Ameri­can Institute for Foreign Trade at Thunderbird Field, Ariz. 
JOSEPH L. GUCCIONE has a Lincoln-Mercury agency in Sterling, 111. 
ROBERT SULLIVAN, t.-achcr of law at Notre Dame and a tnajor in the Reser\-es, addressed the 217th Composite Squadron in South Bend on "Re­tirement Plan for Reservists." 
JOHN C. WEBSTER is with McKay, Davis & McLane at 210 E. Olvmpic St., Los Angeles 15, Calif. 
WALTER L. DRAY has left BendLx Products in South Bend to take a position as assistant chief engineer with Animatograph Corp. in Davenport, la. 
1941 

"^h n W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
EDWARD R. ALEXANDER has opened law of­fices at 60 Main St., South River, N. J. 
RUSSELL L. HARRIS has been named public affairs officer for the United States State Department in Genoa, Italy. He resigned his commission as lieutentant commander in the Navy to accept the new post. He will organize the information seri'ice in Genoa with a view to giving people in northern Italy information on life in the U. S. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Arthur N. BecVar 

.ARTHUR BECVAR, '33, director of General 
Electric Company's Appearance Design Di­vision, holds one of GE's most important design positions. 
Mr. BecVar joined the Appearance De­sign Division in 1945 and successively was coordinator of design for the traffic appli­ance section of the division and assistant director of the division. A student of indus­trial design in Prague, Czechoslovakia, on a fellowship granted by the Institute of Inter­national Education, Mr. BecVar later joined John Gordon Ridout Associates, Cleveland industrial design firm. He was later associ­ated with Revere Copper & Brass Co. Dur­ing the war Mr. BecVar was with the Navy Department's Bureau of Ordnance. 
Rev. ROBERT PATRICK O'DOXNELL was or­dained in Cincinnati and celebrated his first Mass in Holy Angels' Church. Gary, Ind., on March 13. A Glcnmary Missioner, he will work in the southern missions of the country. 
J. V. SMYTH is sales manager of Atlas Steel and Tube Division of Arnolt Corp. in Warsaw, Ind. 
JOSEPH EMMETT RYAN is a patent agent for the Minneapolis Honeywell Regulator Co. His home address is 4445 Columbus Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 
JOHN McNAMEE, who completed law school at Loyola University in California, has joined his father's law office in Las Vegas, Nev. 
Rev. WILLIAM M. DUGAN, Jr., Battle Creek, Mich., who entered St. Paul Seminary in St. Paul, Minn., in 1945 after four and a half years service in the Army, was ordained on May 21 in Detroit, Mich. 
JACK JOYCE, a patient at the Warm Springs Foundation in Georgia, has written that Notre Dame did herself an honor when she honored Tom­my Sexton. The N.D. Band, on a southern tour, made a special trip from Atlanta to Warm Springs in honor of 16-year-old-Tommy, who has long been an ardent fan of Notre Dame. Jack wrote that "Tommy's devotion is a true devotion to Our Lady and her school .. . as deep as her love for us and as strong as her love for her Son." Jack expects to be able to leave Warm Springs next fall. 
JAMES J. MURPHY is a C.P.A. with Squires & Co., 101 Park Ave., New York 17, N. V. THOMAS F. BANNIGAN'S mailing address is II 
S. 3nl St., Airport Tnct, SaEnas, CaEf. 
JOHN PATTERSON mote ngan£i« the tngedy which took CLIFF BUCKLEY and his famihr: 
"t don't think there are man, in oar daa who didn't remember CUFF BUCKLEY—dm, de­spite the fact that he was a quiet feOow. He was, as I recall %ireD, one of the bot-natnied mcaahcn af our class, al«vays went along on an even hcd and was a fellow who thought things oat before taUag action. He was a faithfid attendant at moming prayer, not merely to get the iwinimiim munber of moming '^checks" but because he was a devout CathoUc 
"His close friends will be shocked by the tragic accident that look his life, that of his wife and bis four-year-old son. But they will also be proud to read wbat a leading memher of the Notie Dame Club of Milwaukee said of him—*Cli£F was an ex­emplary Catholic—a real Notre Dame man. Al­though his death and that of his wife and child was tragic and %ve miss him deefdy, wc src conuofftCu in knowii^ that his life was a success. He was al­ways faithful in the practice of his religion and liad grown spiritually throughout the years. I am ccr^ that tat he was in the state of grace at the'time of his untimely death'." 
1942 

William £. Scanlan, Pullman Trust & Savin; Bank, 400 E. 111th St, Chicago 28, HL 
Rev. ROBERT LEO HEINTZ was ordained on April 17 in the Cathedral of the Immaculate Con­ception, Springfield, HI. He ceM)Tated his first Sol­emn Iklass on April 24 in Ss. Peter and Paul's Old Cathedral, Alton, HI. Also ordained on the same day was Rev. ARTHUR DOUGLAS L£ BRETON, '44. Both are serving in the Springfield diocese. 
JOHN DINGES has been appointed aihiertisin^ manager of the John P. Squire Co., Boston, 'Mass. 
CHARLES MacFARLANE ts working for the Arabian-American Oil Co. His adflress is Box 4053, Dhahran, Saudi, Arabia. He spent Holy Week io Rome. 
JAMES PATRICK DOYLE is an accountant with Haskins & Sells, Chicago. He resides at 443 N-Lombard, Oak Park, HI. 
1943 
John L. Wiggins, 6733 Windward St, Cincinnati 27, O. 

From JACK WIGGINS: The most im>lific of my informants, BILL TRACYr came through with another highly interesdng letter. Bill writes: "Since my last letter to you in September of last year I have been transferred from the Washington Field Office of the FBI to my home in New Yoric City. I still continue to meet NJ>. men wfaem-cr I go. "Prior to leaving Washii^ton I ran into JOE CONDON, *34, in the Department of Justice Build­ing. I understand that he is now sUtioned in Bos­ton. I have been in the New York office since Tth­ruary and so far I have met ED MONAHAN, '44, JACK DOERMER, '40, TONY MALONEY, '43, and OLUE HUNTER. Other N.D. men in the office are: AL TOUHY, '31, TOM MINOGUE,aBd BILL POWELL, '34. It was good to see OUie Hunter and Tony K^oney ^ain as I hadn't tten them since before the %var. 
"I attended the N.D.-NVU basketball game and saw HARRY WRIGHT who had just accepted the head football coacfaii^ position and athletic tfiiector­ship at Portland University. FRANK GONFORTI. I was told, was at the game, but I didn't see liim. JIM GODFREY is connected with an imwrancr firm in Chic^o and his brother, MIKE GOD­FREY, works with his unde, a Peoria lawyer. FRANK KUNKLE is back at Ctdumbia Univeraty lookii^ forward to another degree. My brother, JOE, is connected with the Great Anwrican Insu^ ance Co. here in New York, and my other brother, Gerard, has forsaken the FBI for Prudential life Insurance Co." 
An attempt to contact JIM DELANEY netted nn '^Unable to Locate" report from the U. S. Post Office. We were interested in having Jim write m letter outlinii^ his imfiresaons of Olympic competi­tion. The offer still stands, should you happen to ue this column, Jim. 
BILL KflDDENDORF left the brokerage business in Cindnnati to join the sales force of the ^fack-Miller Candle Co., Syracuse, X. Y., manufacturers of ecclesiastical candles. Middendorf ^viU %vork the state of Indiana and make Fort Wayne his head­quarters. He hopes to make Notre Dame one of his top accounts. Bill was in Detroit recently and tried to contact ED RONEY. Ed was rcctipcrating irom an operation at a local VA Hospital. 
On April 2 Coach HERB MELTO.X'S fencing team put in an appearance against the University of Cincinnati. Herb's lads defeated tlie Bearcats, 21-6. 
FRED GORE writes to ask all Chicagoans of the class to dine at Eitel's in the Field Building every Wednesday noon. Fred, JACK BARRY, and JACK TALLETT will be there every Wednesday "lain or­shine,'* according to Gore. A recent luncheon visitor H-as BILL MEYER- Fred, incidentally, has a daugh­ter who was 12 weeks old on Easter Sundav. 
Dr. WILLIAM A. O'COXNELL is a flight sur­'geon in Japan. 
Lt. JAY B. iLARTINE, who is stationed on the island of K>Tishi, Japan, reports that he has been off the island only three times since 1946. His ad­<lress is: Lt. Jay B. Marline, A0837340 USAF, Kumamoto M.G.T., APO 24 Unit I, San Francisco Calif. 
Dr. JOSEPH W. KRESOCK is resident in pedi­atrics at Children's Htjspital, 125 DcSoto St., Pitts­burgh, Pa. 
HARRY WRIGHT has been appointed director •of athletics and Iwad coach of the University of Portland, Portland, Ore. He was head coach at Aquinas Institute at Rochester, X. V., where he had phenomenal success. 
R« . ANTHO.XY MICHAEL BROWN w ^ or­<bined on April 1 in St. Mar>'s Church, Butte, Mont. He celebrated his first Solemn Mass at St. Paul's Church, Anaconda, Mont., where he is sta­tioned temporarily. His brother,'Rev. Patrick Brown and Rev. JAMES DO.VNELLY, C.S.C, '33, were deacon and sub-deacon. 
Four Alumni Ordained (see class news) — Top left. Ber. Robert Leo Heintz, '42: top right Ber. Arthur Douglas Le Breton, '44; bottom left, Ber. Anthony M. Brown. '43; bottom right, Ber. Donald John Bardik, OSB. '45. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Charles A. O'Neill 

CH.\RLES A. O'NEILL, '27, has since 1930 been executive secretar>' for the Milwaukee Particular Council of the Society of St. Vin­cent de Paul. And since 1934 he has also been executive secretary of the Archdiocesan Central Council of the same organization. 
Mr. O'Neill is in addition president of the Wisconsin Association for the Preven­tion of Alcoholism, a member of the Execu­tive Committee of the National Conference of Catholic Charities, a member of the Asso­ciated Hospital Service, Inc. (Blue Cross) of Wisconsin, a member of the Corporation of the Community Welfare Council of Mil­waukee County and a member of the plan­ning committee of that organization. Nation­ally in the St. Vincent de Paul Society, he is ser\»ing as chairman of the Committee on the Care of the Aged. 
A past president of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee, Mr. O'Neill was the recipient of the club's first annual "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award for 1947 in recognition of his outstanding service to the community, the Church and the club. 
Mr. O'Neill and his wife have four chil­

dren, Maureen, Sheila, Bruce and Kevin.. 
1944 
John A. Lynch, Box 231, Palo Alto, Calif. 

Rev. ARTHUR DOUGLAS LE BRETON was ordained Apiit 17 in the Cathedral or the Immacu­late Conception, SpringHeld, 111. He celebrated his fint Solemn Mass in St. Victor's Church, Caliunet City, HI., on April 24. Rev. ROBERT L. HEINTZ, M2, vfzs ordained the same day. Both are serving in the Springfield diocese. 
From JOHN LYNCH: There are only a few letters, and since they have to do mosdy with the reunion, we'll have to skim them (the reunion may well be over by the time you read this, depending on your mail service). 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

SuflSoe it to say, reunion-wise, that JIM CUN­NINGHAM is handling things in South Bend, with the cooperation of BILL DOOLEY in the' Alumni Office. Jim has sent out a class letter, along with an elnTU-page list of class members, and we hope contact has been made with all of you. If by any chance you didn*t get the letter, and )-ou read this, will you let us know? The cbos list may still be incomplete in some respects. 
CHARLIE PICKHARDT, aware of some confu­sion amoi^ the men of *44, said that he would be on hand for the reunion, if only to make it tnore successful than our senior year turned out to be. **I don't know about later classes/' Charlie wrote, *'but '44 had its troubles; no junior pictures in the '43 "Dome," no '44 "Dome" at all, no Senior Ball, ct cetera. In fact, 1 was in GuUport, Miss., doii^ KP the night my degree %vas a%rarded." 
It is good to know that Charlie has impro\-ed his position since then. He spent 30 months traveling %vith the ^ r Transport Command, then settled down %vith a year's teaching of English at Portsmouth Priory School in Rhode Island. Charlie is trax-eling again now, doing statistical work and cost estimating for the New Ha\-en Railroad. He lives in New London, Conn., and he tra\'els about a hundred mites a day. New London to. New Ha\-en to New London, six daj'S a week. 
CharUe has heard from TOM DUFFY, once of Sharon, Pa. Tom is now with Ponliac Motors and is located at their district office in Atlanta, Ga. 
FRANK ENGLISH of New Rochelle, N. Y., is with Jerry English & Sons, ChrysIer-Plj-mouth dealer, in that dly. Frank has three children now, which seems to be a note of some importance for a man of '44. 
Frank has been in touch with AL FINK of Chi> cago and JACK O'NEILL who is interning at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven. All of them are reunion-bound,; of course. 
TOM BREMER is practicing law in Cleveland, the Leonard S. Frost office. Tom adds that ELMER SILHA had visited there in March. Elmer is with O'Neil, Larson & McMahon, a Chicago adver­tising firm. 
There is only one letter left now, and it from a man you are going to hear from quite regularly in the future, BILL TALBOT. This column under its present editorship is closing down now, and Bill is going to take over. Bill's first full column will be )n the July-August issue, and we ask you, to keep him busy with your letters. His address is 300 Main St., White Plains, N. Y., and he is already %v'aiting to hear from you. 
As for. Bill's current letter to the column, he sa>'s that the Notre Dame Glee Club concert in New York on April 19 brought out the crowds. Seen about were LARRY SCHATZLEIN, TONY and Mrs. EARLEY, '45, and JERRY O'REILLY. If I read Bill's letter correctly, GEORGE BARISCILLO was on stage, singing mightily. I didn't know George was still in school, that's all. 
Universal Notre Dame Night in New York brought out more of the men:. CHARLIE KOEGLER, JIM SULLIVAN, "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, LARRY HICKEY, JOE GALLAGHER, FRANK KINCAN­NON, '43, JACK C07.EMAN, '45, as well as the abo\-e mentioned Schatzlein and Earley. 
The New York Club elections passed by the men of '44, Bill says, but JERRY BROWN, already with a foothold, remained on as a member of the board of governors of the Club. 
Bill also had word of JACK WOELFLE, a man we haven't had correspondence with for a long time. "He gave me his card," Bill says, "and if I re­member correcdy he's selling battleships or atom bombs or something. He looks awfully prosperous." 
And here we draw to-a quiet close, leaving the rest up to you and Mr. Talbot. 
EVALD M. "MIKE" RODIN is completing his work at Iowa Uniwrsity for his master's degree in Geology, which he will receive in June. He may continue his studies for a doctorate. 
JAMES E. GALLAGHER is district sales manager of the Automatic Washer Co., Newton, la. 
CHARLES E. SEGHERS is assistant sales manager of the King-Braeger Chevrolet Co., at 1802 N. Forest Home A\-e., Milwaukee, Wis. 
Rev. JOHN IGNATIUS REARDON, O.P., at Notre Dame from 1940 to 1942, will be ordained on June 7 in St. Pius Church, Chicago. He will cele­brate his first Mass in St. Joseph's Cathedral, Sioux Falls. S. D.. on June 12. TOM, '36, and SCOTT, *38, are brothers of the new priest. Father Rcardon 
will return to the Dominican House of Studies, Ri\-er Forest, 111., for another year of theological studies. 
1945 
James W. Schaeffer, 7516 N. Hoyne, Chicago, lU. 

R«-. DONALD JOHN BAYDIK, OS.B., was ordained April 2 at St. John's Cathedral, Cleveland, 
O. He celehrated his first Solemn Mass May 1 in Immaculate Conception Church, Whiting, Ind. 
Dr. RICHARD T. MATLAVISH has opened an oflice in DuQuoin, HI. He had been attached to the staff of Veterans Hospital, Marion, HI. 
GRANT W. MILLER is attending the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thunderbird Field, Ariz. 
Corp. DEWEY C. MANN, Jr., who was killed in action in Germany on March 8, 1945, was buried in South Bend after Requiem High Mass in St. Matthew's Church. His body arrived in South Bend from Germany on April 16. 
Dr. FRANCIS P. NASH is resident in surgery at St. John's Hospital, 307 S. Euclid St., St. Louis 10. 
JOSEPH E. MENEZ, of the Department of His­tory and Political Science at Loyola University, Chicago, spoke to the Catholic Association for In­ternational Peace on "The North Atlantic Pact." 
VLNCENT JACOBS is teaching and coaching at Quincy High School, Quincy, Mich. 
ARTHUR R. KERNEN, Jr., is with the Petro­leum Chemicals Laboratory, duPont Cfiamben Works, Deepu-ater Point, N. J. 
Ensign RAYMOND L. WOLLMAN is at the 
U. S. Naval School (General Line), USNTS, New­port, R. L 
1946 
John K. Stewart, Nolan Motor Co., Garden City, Kans. 

We asked JACK STEWART to carry on for '46 as class secretary. His generous response we arc hap­py to print here: 
"The proposal that I serve as secretary of the class of 1946 is accepted—^vith pleasure. . . . I'll surely do my part to bring together some of the fellows for reports on the Class of 1946. 
"News now of some of the fellows: CHUCK CLAUSS is secretar>*-treasurer of the Clauss In­surance Co. in Buffalo. JACK McCOURT is a father. VINCE MELI was married in Grosse Pointe this winter. JIM LARRICK, whom I saw on my way back from Mexico City, is writing and teach­ing in New Mexico. RIP DeGALLON, Clauss tells me, has a Cadillac dealcnhip in Detroit. TEX SHIPP is with a b w firm in Dallas. 
"JIM BURNS is tackling Broadivay for 'angels' to produce his play. JACK TENGE is working in St. Louis. It's been a year since I saw BOB FINNE­GAN, but at that time he was coaching in a high school outside Washington, D. C. Haven't heard from EMIL SLOVAK since I was located in Paris, France, but he was then coaching at a private school near Honolulu. I am can->-ing on as sales manager in this Chei.ToIet-OIds-Cad dealenhip." 
1947 
Joseph D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St., South Bend, Ind. 

ROiVALD GOODALE, who was studying political science at the Sorbonne in Paris, was arrested by Czedtoslm-akian authorities on Jan. 5 on a charge of violating a currency regulation. It was believed, at the latest report, that he was being held incom­municado. The American Embassy at Prague was notified of the arrest, but its communications with Czecfaoslovakian authorities -went unanswered. His mother said in Houston, Ttt., that Ronald was visit­ing Czechoslo\'akia between terms and that she had not heard from him since his arrest. 
Ensign CARL R. COGGINS was at the latest re­port serving aboard the USS Helena, a cruiser. 
3$ 
It's new! Available now! 

Notre Dame Songs 
Shatterproof 
Republic 
Records 
1.
 Made of Unbreakable Vinylite. 

2.
 Longer freedom from needle scratching. 


prepaid 

Here is a record album that every Notre Dame grad should possess. At last an album of Notre Dame songs recorded on unbreakable Vinylite by the Republic Glee Club, featuring Walter Scheff, bari­tone, and conducted by Joseph Wood. The album includes: "When Irish Backs Go Marching By," "Notre Dame Our Mother," "Hike Notre Dame," "Down the Line," "Victory March" and "Ave Maria." Please use the attached form. 
ICLIPMERB) 
Date_ 
Please send me Record Album(s) of University of Notre Dame songs. 
Send records to: 
NAME CLASS 
ADDRESS 
Make checks payable to: Notre Dame Book Store 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
- 34 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
BOB McBRIDE resigned his position as head foot­ball coach at ^fl. Carmel High School, Chicago, to become tackle coach at Notre Dame. He succeeds ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. who was forced to give up his football coaching by the press of duties as athletic director. 
FRANCIS BORGIA O'BRIEN, who placed highest In the examination, was awarded the degree of cer­tified public accountant by the University of Illinois on .Apnl 26. A gold medal for placing highest was awarded to him &t a dinner meeting of the Illinois Society of Certified Public Accountants in the Grand Ballroom of the Palmer House, Chicago. 
MORGAN E. CARTIER. Jr.. of 300 Morris .Ave.. SE, Grand Rapids, Mich., was awarded two decora­tions in March for bravcr>* in action during World War II. He received a gold star in lieu of a ircond Na\y Cross and the Distinguished Flying Cross. The citation stated that he released a torpedo that sank a German cruiser in 1945. His pilot was injured and the gunner killed, and Morgan was ordered to take to his parachute. Instead he flew the bomber 100 miles back to his task force and crash-landed it near a friendly destroyer. He was credited with saving the life of the pilot. He is now a civil engineer. 
RAY KUFFEL has signed a contract to play end with the Chicago Hornets, All-America Football Conference. He played with the Hornets last year, and before that with the Buffalo Bills. 
KENNETH C. T. SN*YDER Is attending the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thunder­bird Field, Ariz. 
ANGELO BERTELLI, w*ho has signed a contract with the combined New York-Brooklyn dub of the All-America Conference, undcnvent an operation at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York for a knee injurj- that kept him out of action last season. The cartilage in Bertelli's right knee was removed. 
EMIL SLOV.-\K is living at 2342 20ih -Ave., San Francisco, Calif. 
JA.MES T. HORGAN, who is doing graduate work in France, is living at Meubic Magenta. 10 Rue Panidis,:Nice, A.M.. France. 
1948 
Herman A. Zitt, Foundation Office, Notre i)ame, Ind. 

LARRY RYAN" is with GeiKral Motors in Mil­w-aukce. Wis. ROBERT WALSH is assistant editor of "Modern Sanitation." llic first issue of wiiiclt was publislied in .April. J.-\MES V. CAWLEY, '40, is editor. 
GEORGE BEMGXI has been signed by the Chi­cago Bears. FRANK X. KAYSER has been appointed to the research staff of Massacliusetts Institute of TechnoIog>- under a fellowship awarded by Vana­dium Allo}^ Steel Corp. EDW.ARD C. DUKE is studying la**- at Vanderbilt University. 
JOH.V A. "JACK" SCILVEIDER has joined WGX, Chicago, as a sales department representative. He lives at 4823 Birchwood Ave. Skokic, III. RAY­MO.ND ROBERT BAUER is teaching at Muskegon Senior High School. Muskegon. Mich. He resides at 1413 JelTerson St. 
GORDON R. McKI.VXEY is a graduate student and research felloiv at Duke Medical School. Depart­ment of Pli>-siology at Durham, N. C. He is living at Pines Apartments, 820 Dcmerius St. JOHN G. SWEENEY, Jr., received his master's degree in Economics at Columbia University last January. 
JOHNNY LUJACK took over as acting backfield coach at the University of South Carolina {or spring practice. 
BERXARD F. O'HARA is doing graduate *vorfc at St. Louis L'niversity. His address is 4034 A Detonty St., St. Louis. PAUL WEYR.\UCH, *vho is at the University of Michigan, is living at 34 E. Lib­erty, Ann Arbor. 
LEO J. VETTER is an aeronautical engineer and lives at 903 California Ave., Santa Monica, Calif ROBERT G: SMITH is living at 227 E. Wayne St., Maumee, Ohio. 
WILLIAM J. FERRICK is a salesman in Chi­cago. He resides at 1099 To**er Rd., Winnetka, HI. ROBERT H. DEEGAN is a fruit broker at Herschel Jones Market Ser\icE, Inc., 99 Hudson St., New York, N. V. 
MEMBEHSHIP APPUCATIONS 
Degree holders cue automdticaUy members of the Notre Dame Alumni Assodaiion. But those former stu­dents of the University who did not receive degrees are eligible to be elected to membership in the Asso­ciation and are cordially invited to make application accordingly. Ap­plication forms will upon reauest be supplied by the Alumni Office and will be acted upon by the Alumni Board at the first possible moment. 
1949 

ROGER C.-\H.-\XEY is working in the advertising and publicity department of General Electric in Schnectady, N. Y. 
JOHN FRAMPTON has been named head coach of Catholic High School, Pueblo, Colo. 
ROGER O'CONNOR has joined his fatlier*s dr^­cleaning firm. .After a period of training in the River Forest, III., plant, he will attend a special coune in all phases of process and administration at the Na­tional Institute of Cleaning and Dyeing in Silver Springs, Md. 
BILL FISCHER was appointed assistant football coach for spring practice at Weber High School, Chicago. I le signed a contract to play for the Chicago Cardinals. 
BILL SHERMAN stopped off at the campus on March 7 while on his way to the New York Giants spring training camp in Florida. 
With Haskins and Setis 

Twenty-eight Notre Dame men arc work­ing for the nationally-known public account­ing firm of Haskins and Sells, according to a recent report from the company to Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Com­merce. 
Jerome A. Benning, '25, Portland, Ore., is a partner in the firm. Three other gradu­ates are now "principals." They are Thomas 
J. Graves, '38, Chicago; Thomas B. Hogan, '39, New York City; and Philip J. Sand­maicr, '40, Cleveland. 
Eight alumni are "in-charge accountants" 
CHOOSE YOUR CLASS 
In response to niunerous inqtiiries, especially from wartime students, the Alimini Office is glad to say here that: 
1.
 Any alumnus can. as far as the Alurmi Association is concerned, belong to any doss he wants to belong to. Therefore, 

2.
 If you want to be transferred from one class group to another one, merely drop a note to the Alumni Office. That's all that's necessary. 


The Altunni Office ordinarly clas­sifies a man as belonging to the year in which he received his de­gree (or, in the case of the non-graduate, would have normally re­ceived it). But this routine is by no means rigid and can readily he changed at the request of the in­dividual. ­

for Haskins and Sells. They are Charles F. Clapham, '42, Dayton; William A. Keating, '43, Pittsburgh; Charles F. Lemons, '37, Chi­cago; William J. Sturm, '41, Chicago; Louis 
A. MacKenzie, '41, New York City; James 
J. Maher, Jr., '43, New York City; Fred A. Vogclwede, '41, Cincinnati; and Lawrence 
M. Walsh, '41, Cincinnati. "Senior assistant accountants' are James 
P. Doyle, '42, Chicago; John E. Keenan, '42, Chicago; Joseph A. Neufeld, '44, Chi­cago; Thomas W. Kane, '45, New York City. 
Thirteen Notre Dame men are "j'unior assistant accountants." These are Adrian F. Cummings, '48, Chicago; John D. Desmond, '47, Chicago; Richard G. Heckman, '42, Chicago; John D. Ryan, '47, Denver; James 
R. Dutoit, '48, Detroit; Robert L. Fountain, '48, Milwaukee; John J. Elliott, '47, New­ark; James J. Dick, Jr., '47, New York City; John T. Ford, Jr., '47, New York City; Andrew R. McElroy, '44, New York City; George H. Burns, '48, New York City; Leonard H. Reed, Jr., '47, St. Louis. 
Gift from Budapest 

Twenty-two large volumes of rare Latin texts have been presented to the Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame by the St. Stephen .•\cademy of Budapest, Hungary. 
The gift was made as a gesture of respect and admiration for the work of the Medi­aeval Institute and at the request of Joseph Cardinal Mindszent>'. 
The books, of \'arious descriptions, deal chiefly with the relaf'on of Hungarian his-tor>- to mediaeval civilization. 
Generous Remembrance 
A total of $40,000 was left to Notre Dame in the will of the late William J. Corbett, Chicago. 
Mr. Corbett, devoted friend of Notre Dame for many years, pioneer shoe merchant and president of the C. W. Marks Shoe Co. in Chicago, was a member of the .'\ssociate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame from 1941 until his death in May, 1948. He was awarded posthumously an honorarj- doctor­ate by Notre Dame at the 1948 Commence­ment last June. 
The will specified that the $40,000 be added to an original fund of $34,000, founded in 1934, the income of which will be used to increase the present Mcdiacv-al Institute Library at Notre Dame. 
Accounting Course 

A special course in accounting, to ser\e the interests of parish priests and sisters engaged in school administration, will be offered in the College of Commerce at the University during the summer session from June 20 to .^ug. 12. 
The course will cover basic accounting principles and terminolog)" suitable for par­ish and parochial school work and will con­sider the special problems of budgetarj­accounting, fund accounting, financial state­ments, and a study of some uniform systems of parish accounting now in use. 
Everything except a cookie jar . , . 
Lounges Opened in Three Freshman Halls 
The furnishing of each lounge cost ap­proximately $1,400, which was provided, ini­tially, by the University. But this is a stu­dents' project and so, over a period of three years, the students (present and fu­ture) in the three halls will jpay the first cost back to the school by means of indi­vidual pledges. 
Students are not only financing the new lounges, they are also operating them. Each hall has a house committee which sets up rules. And the rules are obeyed — or else. The student, very rare, who inasts on chat­tering during quiet hours finds himself pro­pelled to the outer regions. 
What do the the rectors concerned think of the new plan? (They are Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, c.s.c. (Breen-Phillips), Rev. 
A LL the comforts of home — except the ^ ^ cookie jar — arc provided in the new basement lounges which have been furnished by freshmen in Breen-Phillips, Farley and Zahm halls. Colorful rugs, couches, eas>­chairs and lamps, plus tables for those with written work to do, provide comfortable and attractive study spots for students living in rooms crowded by the University's rapid expansion. There arc current magazines, too, and book shelves will be added later. 
•Theodore Hesbiirgh, ' c.s.c: (Farlt^)' and 
Rev. Charles McCarragher, cs.c . (Zahm). They're enthusiastic, to a man. "A year ago," said Father Hesburgh, 
"you couldn't make me believe that a thing like this could work in a freshman hall. Yet, there it is, and students run every­thing." 
Questioned as to the clean, neat appear­ance of a lounge early one morning. Father McCarragher explained, "Thb room hasn't been touched since the students left it last night. They put everything in order, even cleaned out the ash trays, before they left." 
(Mothers and prospective wives, please note.) 
"The lounge was so popular during the colder months," said Father Gassensmith, "that the time which one student could spend in it had to be limited. But every­body cooperated wonderfully." 
Top: Forlay Holk.eanlei: Zcdun Hall; leh: Bieea-PhilUps HaU. 
yr.fc;d.vard J. Tracsy Jr. University Club State College, ?a. 
^koMki jf^ fQ44/i kelfir^^^^^^^^ 
You all know . . . 
"\^s better 
to BUILD BOYS than MEND MEN! / # 
*
 That's why the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre Dame have taken over 

*
 That's why Archbishop Cashing of Boston, Chairman of the NCWC 


THE CATHOLIC 

Youth Department, is its enthusiastic Advisory Editor. 
*
 That's why ten topflight sports writers, journalists and authors pool their talents every month for THE CATHOLIC BOY. 

*
 Edited by Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C, '33, formerly Prefect of Religion at the University and Editor of the Youth Section in OSV. 

*
 48 pages every month (except July and August)—chock full of SPORTS, FICTION, COMICS and HOBBIES—charged from cover to cover with CATHOLIC SPIRIT AND LIFE! 

*
 Single Subscriptions $2.00 a year—School Price (in bundle lots of 10 or more copies to one 


address) 1.00 a year 

• Subscribe today for THE MAGAZINE BO/S 
The Catholic Boy Notre Dame, Indiana Dear Fathers: 
Please send THE CATHOLIC BOY 

j To 
! Address ; City and State 
 WANT 
; ! 

1I  • Single subscription ($2) Q copies @ bulk rate ($1)  D Remittance EnclosedD Send invoice  \ \  
iuild a Boy dnd make him Ha^^^  — G£T HIM THE CATHOLIC BOy  






