The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

COMMENT 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ABaisTRONG, '25, Editor 
Victory March Or Swan Song 

The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Altunni 
Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The 
This issue of the Notre Dame subscription price is S2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The 
annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to TH£ ALUHNTTS. 
ALUMNUS completes a volume from Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post oiBee at Notre 
Dame. Indiana, under the Act of IMarch 3, 1879. All correspondence should 
which, actually, three numbers are 

be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. missing, for financial reasons. MEMBER OF THE AJIERICAN ALUMNI CouNca During the summer, following the 
•MEJIBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOUC ALUMNI FEDERATION straight and narrow path dictated by our four thousand dollar deficit, the Alumni Office is returning to the one-THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
man-no-women basis of its incipiency, of the with obvious harm to the present 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME standards of operation. 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., 
The problem of dues has been pre­Notre Dame, Indiana sented in so many lights,—^with facts, JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary with philosophy, with laughs and with sighs—that further elaboration here ALUMNI BOARD is but repetition. With this differ­REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., '90 Honorary President 
ence! 

CLARENCE IMANION, '22 --• President TlJIOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 -First Vice-President Unless there is action of the signa­JAMES E . SANFORD, '15 -Second Vice-President ture-on-line nature between now and JAJIES E. ARJISTRONG, '25 -Secretary-Treasurer October 1, the ALUMNUS cannot re­T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director sume publicatioji. JOHN F . CeoNNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 Director 
The Alumni Association has ceased 

HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 Director to be a social organization, pleasing 
GEORGE HIGGINS, '32 -Director to the fancy of those few loyal alumni FRANK H . HAYES, '14 -­
(ex officio) Director 
who have always been the nucleus of 
Notre Dame activities. 
It is now a big, a growing, an essen­tial part of the Greater Notre Dame. It is in the heavier-than-air class, and year 

Before ISSO 
needs good fuel and strong propellers 
1880-83 to keep it up. In your new Board 1886 
1887 you have the propellers. Give them 1888 
1SS9 the money that is the essential fuel 1890-03 
1894 
for flight in their program of activi­1895 ties, and you'll have a pleasant and 1896 
1897 speedy trip through 1932-33. 189S 
1899 In the fall, when the Deans assem­1900 
1901 ble their faculties, when the boys 1902 
1903 come trooping in from the four winds, 1904 
1903 
when Hunk calls out those magic I30S 
1907 
words, "Everybody up!"—^when these 1908 1909 
symbols of the cause of education 1010 stand here on the campus, where will 1912 
1911 
the Alumni Association, the one part 1913 
1914 of Notre Dame that can show the 1913 
191G 
effect of education, stand? 1917 1918 Is this closing number of the 1919 
1920 ALUMNUS striking the dying chord 1921 
1922 
in its Swan Song, or is it hitting the 1923 stirring harmony of an impending 1924 
1925 Victory March? 1926 
1927 1928 For your good, make it the latter. 1929 
1930 1931 JIM ARMSTRONG. 

LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES 
Name 

To be selected Prof. Robert M. Anderson Michael O. Bums Hon. "Warren A. Cartier John L. Hcineman To be selected Louis P. Chute HuKh A. O'Donnell Eustace Cullman. 5r. "William P. Bums Rev. John MacNamara 
F. Henry "Wurzer Dr. Joseph F. Duane John "W. EtiKeman Joseph J. Sullivan To be selected Francis P. Burke Robert Proctor Daniel J. O'Connor Tiiomas A. Lally
T. Paul McGannon Frank X. Cull 
E. P. Cleary Rev. M. L. Moriarty Fred L. Steers Benjamin J. Kaiser James R. Devitt Frank H. Hayes James E. Sanford Timothy P. Galvin John V. Riley John A. Lcmmer Clarence Badcr Leo B. Ward Alden J. Cusick Gerald Ashe Paul Castner James F. Hayes John W. Scallan Dr. Gerald W. Hayes Edmund DeGercq Louis Buckley Joseph McNamara Bernard W. Conroy John E. Boland 
Address 
Circleville. Ohio 338 S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio Ludini^n. Michi(nin Connersville, Indiana 
7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota The New Y*ork "Times. New York City S60 Phelan Bldff.. San Francisco, Calif. 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City. Indiana St. Joseph's Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Mich, (temporary) Buhl Bldg.. Detroit. Michigan 418 Jefferson Bldg.. Peoria. Illinois 1201 First National Bank Bldg.. Fort "Wayne. Ind. 1300, 139 N. Clark St . Chicago, Illinois 
904 Trust Company Bldg.. Milwaukee. Wisconsin Monger Bldg., Elkhart. Indiana 10 S. LaSalle St.. Chicago. Illinois 511-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spokane, Washington Bar Bldg.. 36 W. 44th St.. New York City Buckley Bldg.. Cleveland. Ohio 
P. O. Box 356, Momence, Illinois 527 Beall Ave.. Wooster. Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 921 Engineers Bldg.. Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave., Chicago, Blinois 8212 Kenwood Ave.. Chicago. Illinois 708 First 'Tmst Bldg.. Hammond. Indiana 244 Washington St., Boston, Massachusetts 1110 - 8th Ave., S.. Escanaba. Michigan 650 Pierce St.. Gary, Indiana 1012 Black Bldg.. Los Angeles. California 1 Park Ave.. New Y'ork City 1024 Monroe Ave.. Rochester. New York 2702 Miami St., South Bend, Indiana Fifth Avenue Ass'n, Empire State Bldg.. N. Y. City Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St.. Chicago. HI. 38 N. 12th St.. Newark, New Jersey 8126 Drexel Blvd.. Chicago. Illinois 718 E. Corby St.. South Bend. Indiana 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis. Indiana 1035 Park Ave.. New York City 3624 Chestnut St., Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 
TUB COMMENCEMENT OF 1932 

A Partial View of the University Gymnasium, with Graduates and Guests 
". . , Joii and yood fellowship these far, clear ways ". . . The snoius of the year will gather when I yo With me have come, and every fear have quelled; Beyond thy springtime gates, hut there shall 6c And Age shall hoard remembrance of these days Within my heart a love for thee aglow. Where Youth with yloried lips and spirit dwelled. Mother and Lady, through eternity." 
(From the Doma of 1U17) 



TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. X.  JUNE, 1932  No. 9  
Commencement Address oOWE N  D.  yOUNG  
At Notre Dame University, Sunday, June 5, 1932  

Mr. President and Gentlemen of Notre Dame: 
When you put thirty minutes of this important hour in my hands in trust, you impose on me the duty of administering the trust fund wisely. Under ordinary circumstances, a com­mencement speaker searches for a subject in which young men just grad­uating might be interested. There is no such need today. Many subjects are thrust upon us. I must select one from the avalanche now in progress or avoid it altogether. Speaking of an avalanche, when the slide is on one does not select some particular piece of rock for study, interesting though it be. And so I do not believe that it would serve any useful purpose for me, on this occasion, to discuss in a separate and segregated way any one of the dozens of economic problems which are all involved in the great movement that is taking place. 
In the Alps, I am told, they have what is known as the avalanche blast, which is a wind storm caused by the rapidly moving masses down the mountain slope. We have a cor­responding phenomenon in this coun­try today. Confessedly, I hesitate, amidst the roar and confusion of the sliding mass, amidst the shrieks of the injured, to add one more voice to the blast which you have thus far only remotely felt in these quiet halls. 
You are, however, keenly interested in the spectacle as a whole, and right­ly so, for it will have a momentous, and perhaps determining influence on your career. That is so no matter what field you enter. Whether it be the church or engineering, whether it be literature or business, whether it be fine arts or applied arts, it is all the same. 
The most impressive thing about the spectacle is that everything goes down together. Just as rocks and ice and snow and soil act and interact to accentuate the velocity of the slide, so banks and railroads, churches and colleges, national governments and lo­cal administrations, great central banks and little frontier savings insti­tutions, hospitals and schools, our own health and happiness, our good will and bad will, our patience and impa­tience, are all related to and have a common interest in our downward course. In our endeavor to deal with one we find it necessary to interest cm-selves in the others. That is our principal difficulty right now. So when we find our banks in danger because 

THE HON. O^VEN D. YOUNG ". . unhurt and unchanged by success." they have invested in railroad bonds and those securities are depreciated because the business of the railroads is adversely affected, we discover all at once that the banking problem has become a railroad problem. When we examine our railroad problem we find that it depends on the rates determin­ing its income and the wages measur­ing the expense. And so a banking problem becomes one of railroad rates and rairoad labor. And when we go into the question of railroad rates, we find that industry and agriculture is affected. Their output may be market­able or not depending quite as much on rates of transportation as on cost of production. So a banking problem becomes one of industry and agricul­ture. And if the credit of industry and agriculture is weakened by dimin­ished markets due to increased rates, the very loans which the banks have made to them become impaired. And so the cycle is complete. 
The very influences which we pro­ject in one direction for our salvation may quickly stab us in the back. The cycle which I have described is a short one. It is a simple one. But however complicated or long a cycle may be, it moves under the same law. Broadly 
speaking, one piece of the avalanche can not be stopped unless all are stopped. No upward trend can take place unless all go up. No perma­nency of any trend can be guaranteed unless we have sound and fair balance betiveen all the units in our economic body. In my opinion, is was our un­balanced condition which caused our trouble. The living standards of our industrial population were lifted to a high level back of an impenetrable tariff wall. The living standards of our agricultural population, which was subjected to a world competition, could not normally be maintained at an equal level. The farmer naturally wanted to keep up with Lizzie by hav­ing the same things which his indus­trial neighbor had. So we alleviated the disparity and disguised our true situation temporarily by furnishing the farmer credit artificially through semi-governmental agencies. It was thought necessary to do this to keep him quiet politically. Without tackling the problem at its root, we made it possible, temporarily, for the farmer to buy radios and automobiles, not through increased current earnings, but by mortgaging his future. That in turn speeded up industrial produc­tion and increased the fervor of our extravagance and encouraged our speculation. But the day came when the farmer ultimately had to settle. Then he stopped buying, industrial production decreased, unemployment began, and we started the downward spiral which resulted in the avalanche which is now in progress. Industrial standards can not be permanently re­stored unless we find a way of bring­ing agricultural standards permanent­ly to an approximate level. A nation politically can not endure half slave and half free. A nation economically can not do so either. We are paying the penalty now. Nature is restoring the balance with an equalizing prem­ium. Industrial workers are in want, but farmers still have a home and food, even though the house be mort­gaged. 
Now who can deal with this ava­lanche as a whole. Take the case of the banks and their railroad bonds. Bankers can not do so. The Federal Reserve Board can not do so, because they have no power over the railroads. 
THE NOIKE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
The railway executives can not do so in the matter of rates, because they must have the action of the Interstate Commerce Commission. They can not do so promptly in the matter of wages without the consent of the leaders of many unions. Even the President of the United States can not do so, be­cause his powers are strictly limited. And so today our banking system is threatened, not by conditions which could not be corrected, but by th3 fact that there is no centi-alized authority anywhere with power to act. The normal procedures of the several authorities would create delay, even though they were all in agreement, which is too much to expect. And delay is as destructive as no action. I do not complain of this situation—I only call attention to it as the answer to the criticism that somebody should do something promptly. There is no such "somebody." 
It is all natural enough. Our domes­tic government, for its own protection, has from the beginning insisted on sharply delegated powers, with ade­quate checks and balances, lest the sovereign yoke we enthusiastically and gallantly threw off in the Revolu­tion reappear to destroy our political liberty. It is quite explainable, there­fore, that a government of powers widely distributed into carefully seg­regated and insulated compartments should function under normal condi­tions and should fail us altogether when the avalanche comes on. It may he that we shall have to consider some method of putting e.\traordinary pow­ers in the hands of the President in times like these. 
Then too, there is another difficulty which, although recognized before, has been emphasized by what has hap­pened recently. We have made great progi'ess in this country by the segre­gation of our production into highly specialized departments, where both men and machines function to produce cheaply and efficiently for our econom­ic welfare. Even in our social organ­ization we ask for specialized schools, specialized hospitals, specialized sur­geons, physicians and nurses, in order that we may avoid the tragedy of un­skilled hands. Naturally that has led to extreme specialization in our educa­tion. We put our students, particu­larly in the colleges, under highly specialized instructors, and as the process goes on each instructor occu­pies an increasingly narrow field. I use narrowness not as a term of re­proach, but as the necessary concomi­tant of increasing specialization. This is just as inevitable as it is that the field of the microscope be diminished as the magnification of the object is in­creased. Is it not true that our col­leges are more and more training our men to be experts until in the language of the old definition they "know more and more about less and less." Is it 
not worth considering whether there should be more courses in training for general overhead which will bring at least to a few, and probably those least fit for specialized work, the un­derstanding which is necessary to see the field as a whole and to deal with these segregated, specialized activities as intersupporting units of a single body? When the trouble comes we need someone with understanding and with power to marshal all our forces, to direct the course of the avalanche so that the least damage may be done, and to stop it if possible. We not only lack the machinery to give such men power, but we lack also men with ade­quate training and understanding to exercise it. How many of you young men are fitting yourselves to do that today? If you are not, who is to sup­ply it if the colleges fail? 
The insistent cry for leadership and for central planning which is arisinff on all sides is the instinctive call of the masses for integrated responsibility and poiver in this highly specialized world of onrs. 
And now let us leave the avalanche and its immediate turmoil. Let me talk to you for a few minutes about less impersonal problems. After all, there is something more than rocks, and stones, and soil, and water, and the law of gravity, operating in our avalanche. There are human beings with their loves and hates, their trusts and suspicions, their high ambitions and broken hopes. And you must re­member that it matters little to the rocks and soil whether they lie at one altitude or another, for to them there is ample time. Their life is long. But with these people it is different. At best, they have an allotted time of three score years. Nearly half must be used to develop their powers to the point of effective action. Then perhaps only fifteen or twenty years remain in which to succeed or fail. So to them the time factor in the ava­lanche is important. The time that it is going on, the time that it takes to clean it up. So naturally you will find, as you go out tomorrow, great con­sternation and unrest among these men and women with whom you have to work. It is with them in mind that I wish to sepak now. 
On the train yesterday two gentle­men were taking their daily dozen of observational exercises on the state of the nation. I speak in no disparaging way of these discussions. They are one of the most encouraging signs in these depressed times. True, many of these interchanges merely amount to bitter and destructive criticism of men or institutions which, interacting on each other, increase in heat until many vaporize into thin air. 
One of the things my friends on the train said was hoio hopeless the boys must be tvho are graduating from col­
lege this year. May I say at once, with full realization of all the prob­lems which you will have to face to­morrow, I do not share that view. You will not be discouraged at the stai-t. Your spirit will not be broken because you enter the game at a critical time. You will look on these difficulties as a challenge and you will discipline your­selves to meet them. That discipline comes too late for my generation. We shall suffer from it but we shall not survive to profit by it. It comes in time for you. 
So I shall not tell you this after­noon what a dismal place the world is, or condole with you because of the difficulties which you will face. As a matter of fact, if you can survive the initial shock you will have before you the most favoring circumstances for service presented to young men of any time. 
As you go out tomorrow, you will find every\vhere a profound sense of failure, even of despair. So first of all let me warn you against being misled by the despondency, by the sus­picions, and by the criticisms which are now so prevalent. One might well draw the conclusion that there was no courage, or magnanimity left in the world. If there were none, we should let our people starve or freeze. We would abandon our sick and disabled in this great retreat. We would cur­tail the educational and other privi­leges of our children. We shall do none of these. 
If we are willing to let this economic depression run its course regardless of human suffering, economists may tell you that it would undoubtedly find its bottom quickly, and from that foundation a new and sound economic structure might be rebuilt. They may tell you that it would have been better from the purely economic standpoint to let this force spend itself by a quick and precipitant drop from top to bottom rather than to let it grind its way slowly toward what they regard as its inevitable end. Well, I do not know whether the economists are right about it. I do know that I like the spirit of a people which fights every inch of retrogression, whether it be in its culture, in its living standards, in its social and educational work, and even in its hopes for the future, ex­travagant though they be. We have become too sensitive to human suffer­ing to let this economic movement run its course. Our social conscience will not permit it. Our political organiza­tion can not permit it, and so we have every kind of proposal, wise and un­wise, to reverse the trend. Even our economic organization itself, which theoretically might benefit by a bot­tom quickly reached, is too sensitive both to social and political influence to permit it to be done. When the his­
(Continued on Pase 21C) 

June, 1932 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Eighty - Eighth Annual Commencement 
Being An Inadequate Chronology of the Many And Varied Events of the Most Distinguished And Crowded Program of the Eighty-Eight Observances of the Award of Notre Dame Degrees. 
In brfef, the Eighty-Eighth Annual 
Commencement exercises of the Univ­
sity of Notre Dame, held on the cam­
pus Friday, Saturday and Sunday, 
June 3, 4 and 5, 1932, were the most 
successful, from all angles, in the 
history of the University. Four hun­
dred and fifty alumni, a tribute to 
loyalty and spirit in these troublous 
times, joined a record-breaking atten­
dance of relatives and friends, partici­
pating in the program. 
-Alumni and Dillon Halls, beautiful 
and majestic residence halls on the 
"new front," served as alumni head­
quarters. The University golf course 
was heavily patronized and the Univ­
ersity Dining Halls did more than a 
modest share in satisfying the inner 
man. The setting was perfect—sel­
dom has even the permanently located 
Editor seen the campus more beauti­
ful. The weather was wai-m, but 
clear, barring Friday afternoon's 
downpour. The new buildings. Com­
merce, Engineering and Law, shared 
in the stage. 
Against this colorful background moved the most impressive pageant of Notre Dame progress that a Com­mencement has been privileged to present. The principal addresses appear in this issue separately. Here follows in brief the principle events of the week-end in the order of hap-• penings. Not to have seen is to be essentially deprived. But in part: 
Registration began Friday. By Fri­day night 150 alumni were already registered in Dillon Hall, capital of the '27 Reunion, and the vanguard of the regulars was moving into Alumni. The golf course was in use all day Friday. At 12:30, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, formally opened the week-end with an address to the Class of 1932 in a private assembly in Washington Hall. 
-At 3 o'clock the Third Annual Meeting of the Local Alumni Club Council convened in the faculty lounge of the University Dining Halls to dis­cuss the problems and progi-ess of the Clubs. Student contact was the key­note of the 1932 meeting. Registrar Robert Riordan outlined the plan as put in effect this year, which consists largely of interviewing students who have already signified interest in Notre Dame. The plan was based pri-. marily on a desire to augment the University's policy of selectivity. Ramifications of the project were dis­cussed. Possibilities of extending these activities to include stimulating preparatory students who have not 
TH E -ALUIINI 

signified an interest in Notre Dame were outlined. The creation of con­tact and good will between alumni and parents of students or prospec­tive students was favorably considered and various suggestions recommended. Relations between the Local Clubs and the corresponding campus units were treated at some length. The possibility of welding a plan into which both present and prospective students and alumni might dovetail was advocated. The consensus of the meeting was that Notre Dame, through the Clubs, must meet the growing competition in the selection of the best preparatory students if the University is to maintain a stu­dent standard in keeping with that of its faculty and physical plant. The delegates wex'e unanimous in their be­lief that a great deal could be done through the Clubs, with a little co-op­ei-ation from the University, in the conduct of such contacts on a national scale. James E. -Armstrong, the Alumni Secretary, presided in the ab­sence of President Frank H. Hayes. 
Fi-iday evening, Director of -Ath­letics Jesse Harper entertained the returning Notre Dame coaches at a dinner in South Bend, and plans were made for the annual Monogi-am lunch­eon. A number of coaches were back for the week-end, the newspapers carrying considerable comment from the campus on the proposed Yale plan of curtailing football activity. 
The University Band, under the di­rection of Joseph J. Casasanta, '23, gave its annual public Commencement concert on the main quadrangle at 
7:00 p. m. Friday, to a large audience of Commencement visitors. The wide I'ange of the Band's program this year, from the "Ave Maria" of Bach-Gounod to Goldman's "Stepping Along," pleased the audience greatly. Elgar's "Pomp and Circumstance," and selections from the "Desert Song," with the always popular campus songs, which this year included the new "Notre Dame, Our Mother," by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, and Professor Casasanta, featured the concert. 
Friday evening at 8:15, the Uni­versity Theatre presented to an appreciative audience in Washington Hall the famous "Abraham Lincoln" of John Drinkvvater. Prof. Frank Kelly, a Notre Dame man, head of the department of speech, directed the ex­cellent cast which handled the drama most effectively. Albert Doyle, '27, judge of the city court of Mishawaka, and a member of the faculty of speech at Notre Dame, played an able Lin­coln. Some twenty-five students were well cast in subordinate parts and the Theatre was indebted for feminine parts to a cast of guests headed by 
 BANQUET 
Toastmaster-President-Professor Clarence "Pat" Manion, '22; Retiring Hon. President Rev. John A. MacNaniara, '97; and Very Rev. Janus A. BUDIS, C.S. C, 'SS, Provincial. 
198 Jime, 19S2
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Miss F. Theresa Chisholm, of the dra­
matic department at St. Mary's, who 
played Mrs. Lincoln. The presenta­
tion was in keeping with the high 
standards set by the University Thea­
tre, particularly in its annual Com­
mencement ijresentations, which in the 
past few years have included two 
Shakespearean plays, "Julius Caesar" 
and the "Merchant of Venice," and 
the powerful war drama, "Journey's 
End." 
A new feature of this year's play 
was the supplementary musical pro­
gram presented by the University 
Symphony Orchestra under the direc­
tion of Prof. Eichard Seidel. The 
overture, "Raymond" by Thomas, and 
five numbers, including two by Mo­
zart, brought to the audience another 
able development of the fine arts at 
Notre Dame. 
SATURDAY, JUNE 4 
Reunion Mass for deceased alumni opened the second of the eventful Commencement days. Rev. John Mac-Namara, '97, honorary president of the Association, sang the Solemn' High Mass in the beautiful Sacred Heart Church, at eight o'clock. 
In this same Church at nine-thirty the Class of 1932 gathered for that impressive ceremony known as the Last Visit, which imprints indelibly upon the minds of the graduating boys the influence which this magnifi­cent church has had upon their academic lives, and leaves its last memory as a vivid symbol of religion in education. 
Moring from Church the capped and gowned Seniors adjourned to Washington Hall, where the Class Day exercises wei-e held and the prizes for excellence during the career of the Class awarded. Eugene Connolly, president of the Class, extended a wel­come to the guests of the Class, and presided over the subsequent exer­cises. William Kirby, varsity debater, gave "an excellent Class oration. Fran­cis O'Malley delivered that most diffi­cult of addresses, the valedictory. The University Symphony Orchestra play­ed a short program for these exer­cises. 
At noon on Satui-day, the College of Commerce alumni enjoyed a lunch­eon in the Lay Facultj' Dining room. Details of the event are printed sep­arately. 
The retiring Board.of Directors of the Association met at ten o'clock Saturday moi-ning in the Alumni Office to sum up the affairs of the year. An appreciation of the work of President Frank Hayes, of Harry Miller, '10, who retires after four ac­tive and interested years on the Board, Clarence Manion, retiring vice-presi­dent; Walter Duncan, '12, whose work as treasurer has been of inestimable value to the conduct of the Associa­tion; Rev. John A. MacNamara, loyal and enthusiastic honorary president, 
and Frank E. Hering, who remained 
on the Board for the year following 
his presidency, was expressed to these 
members by the remaining directors. 
In view of the financial crisis of the 
Association, it was decided to leave 
plans for the ensuing year entirely in 
the hands of the new Board. 
At two o'clock on Cartier Field, 
Notre Dame closed its baseball season 
with a victory over Michigan State 
College, 6-3. The day was ideal for 
the game and the ^'ictory gave alumni 
the thrills that have come to Notre 
Dame fans from the time of Pop An­
son down, through such stellar careers 
as Roger Bresnahan, George Cutshaw, 
Jean Dubuc, Ed Eeuibach, Cy Wil­
liams and their illustrious fellowship 
of the diamond. 
At 4:30 alumni enjoyed a rare treat when the beautiful new Hall of En­gineering, the gift of John F. Gush­ing, C.E. '06, was dedicated. In the auditorium of the magnificent struc­ture Rev. Thomas Steiner, G.S.C., '99, Dean of the College of Engineering, presided at the dedicatory exercises. He introduced Rev, Charles L. O'Don­nell, C.S.C., '06, President of the Uni­versity, who in tui-n introduced Mr. John F. Gushing in the following words: 
"Twenty-six years ago, there was gi-aduated from the University a civil engineer who had, he thought, a spe-. cial reason to be grateful to Notre Dame, Shortly after his gi-aduation, he was married to the lady of his delight, who was also a university graduate, and the t\vo together set about the serious but happy business of building a home. As time went on, the engineer achieved distinction in his profession and a fair measure of material success. During this period of a quarter of a century, his contacts with the University were only the in­termittent association permitted to a very busy executive who had also be­come the father of a large family. 
"Last year, the silver jubilee of his own graduation, was a happy one both for him and his irife, as well as for his Alma Mater, because this grateful alumnus was able to carry out a cher­ished irarpose. By a gift of $300,000 to Notre Dame, he made possible the erection of this splendid building which bears and will perpetuate his name—the John F. Gushing, C.E. '06, Hall of Engineering. Last year, too, their son was graduated from his Col­lege of Engineering with the highest honors in his class. 
"As a classmate of Mr. Gushing, I am particularly proud and happy to accept this magnificent benefaction. Better perhaps than anyone else, I 
knotv the underlying motives which in­spired this gift. Into these there is no need of entering at this time. There is one important fact, however, which I believe ought to be brought out. violate no confidence, I am sure, when I tell you that this gift is not at all a generous gesture in the spending of superfluous wealth. I find it is often an unwarranted assumption that bene­factions of this kind are made only by men who have, as the saying goes, so much money they don't know what to do with it. If there is such a class of men, Mr. Gushing is not in that class. This gift, be it said to his and Mrs. Gushing's everlasting credit, rep­resents courage and sacrifice on their part. For that reason, they have a special claim upon our gratitude. 

"Mr, Gushing, the University honors men who have justly attained success in various walks of life. May I say of you, that you have honored yourself and your family and your Alma Mater by presenting Notre Dame with this building. No small part of our hap­piness today comes from the reflected glory in which Notre Dame stands be­cause one of her engineering gradu­ates has given proof that the ideals to which she is dedicated are, in his life, realities." 
Rising from where he sat with his wife and seven children, Mr. Gushing acknowledged the President's re­marks with the modesty which has characterized the entire conduct of the benefaction: 
"Reverend Father O'Donnell, Fath­er Steiner, Honorable Guests, Fellow Alumni and Friends: 
"Knowing of the array of splendid speaking talent available here today, I came here not to speak, but rather to be in this delightful company, and to enjoy this peaceful atmosphere and these beautiful surroundings. 
"The desire to be associated with successful institutions, to be with the winner, is a very common one. To­day, millions are worrying over the futility of temporary success and are developing a definite trend of thought along lines, aimed at something more permanent or lasting. For an educa­tional institution, permanent or last­ing success is the only kind worthy of mention. 
"The substantial development of the University of Notre Dame for nearly one hundred years is because it was founded on sound, fundamental prin­ciples, and has since continuously been conducted by able and honest men; by men with sufiicient determination and appreciation of these simple ne­cessities to achieve and attain these more valuable permanent successes. The business of this university is the first and best of all in the land. Its product is educated young manhood, properly trained to go out and live happy and useful lives; to correct some of our major ills; and leave after them, tangible influences that will justify the time and effort of both the student and his teacher in acquir­
June, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Ing the present standard of college education. 
"The physical assets of this institu­tion, the many fine buildings, are a pleasure and a satisfaction to behold, but buildings do not make a uni­versity. Of greater importance is the permanently sound management, in­suring continued operation, beyond the life of these present buildings, on, into other new ones; and, in the meantime, continue the output of real university graduates. These few con­siderations are the reasons for our in­terest in, and our desire to continue our association with this University. They are certainly among the reasons for the second and third generations graduating from here. They are the reasons for attracting able men in past years and now to conduct this school. 
"I firmly believe that the great worth of this Institution to the nation is going to be recognized by other benefactors, who will far outshadow anything that has been done to date." 
The principal speaker for the occa­sion was the Hon. Sergius P. Grace, vice-president of the Bell Laboratories in New York City, whose scholarly address on the "Spirit of Engineer­ing," the ALUMNUS is privileged to present separately in this issue. Dr. Grace accompanied his address with demonstrations, through elaborate special equipment in the auditorium, of the development of the transmis­sion of the human voice. He, and Father O'Donnell later, spoke by long distance with London, England, from the stage. IJeports of Trans-Rocky Mountain planes were brought into the amplifiers. The mechanical voice in the New Yoi-k Laboratories brought back numbers dialed on the Notre Dame stage. In this connection, the ALUMNUS wishes to repeat two gen­erous and significant remarks of Dr. Grace. One concerned the building, when he stated that in his travels he had come upon larger, more elaborate buildings of engineering, but never one more completely constructed and equipped for the purpose it is to serve. The other came when he introduced Dr. J. A. Caparo, '08. Of him Dr. Grace said, "You have in Dr. Caparo the best professor of electrical en­gineering in the United States." Prof. Francis \V. Kervick, architect of the building, was introduced by Father O'Donnell. 
The Alumni Banquet at 6:00 o'clock in the east wing of the University Dining Halls, found more than 700 alumni, including members of the Class of 1932, assembled. The dinner itself could hardly have been excelled. By decision of the Alumni Board, the business session of the Association was combined with the Banquet to avoid the rush of the Sunday program and the lack of attendance that has 
Supreme Grand Knight Martin H. Carmody, of Grand Rapids, Mich., and Neiv Haven, Conn., one of the recipients of an Honorary Doctor of Law degree, is shown here (center at table), at the luncheon Sunday of the Notre Dame Council Knights of Columbus, at which he was lumor guest. With him at the table are: James Collins, retiring Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Chapter (left), and Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C., Chaplain, and standing, left to right: Prof. Raymond Hoyer, and John Caliill, Notre Dame Grand Knight elect. 
resulted in the last few years: Con­CASH STATEMENT 
June G. 1931. to June 1. 1932 

sequently, President Frank Hayes 
RECEIPTS 

occupied the chair and read the fol­1931 lowing report for the year from the June 6. Overdrawn S 273.20 Treasurer, Walter Duncan, '12: 1932 
Jun^ I. Dues Collected 7.SS0.20 
Advcrtisinn 438.3S 
Alumnus Subscriptions .. 33.00 
La Salle, Illinois, Interest on Band 60.00 
Miscellaneous income 43.50 
June 2, 1932. 

Received I'rom Livinjr Mr. Frank Hayes, Endowment Fund 2.110.00 
25 N. Dearborn Street, 
Total income less overdraft SIO.292.06 Chicago, Illinois. 
DtSBUliSEilESTS

Dear Frank: June I. Secretary's salary..53.300.00 Enclosed please find statement of Advance to Secretary 150.00 
Stenographers* salaries .. 1.870.00 
the total received into the Living En­
PublishinB Alumnus 2.322.00 dowment Fund from its initiation to Postase 784.37 
Office supplies 621.73 
June 1, 1932; also a list of the dis­
^liscellaneous expense .. . 293.06 
bursements from this fund. You will TravelinK expense 483.50 
Office cfiuipment 363.86 
notice we have a balance of $536.15 
Alumni Council dues 50.00 10.238.52 
on hand. We also enclose cash statement of 
June 1, Balance on hand.. S 53.54 the Alumni affairs from June 6, 1931, LIVING ENDOWMENT FUND to June 1, 1932. This account shows June 1. 1932 a cash balance of $53.54. Our unpaid Total collected to 
June 1. 1932 S10,946.7S 
bills, however, total $3,800.55. The 
Draft to University of 
bond shown on this list was purchased 
Notre Dame S5.800.00 
with the money which had been re­Expense for draft .50 ceived for life memberships in the Transferred to Alumni Alumni Association. Association 
Bank service charse for 
Very truly yours, December. 1931 .13 10,410.63 
WALTER DUNCAK. June 1. 1932, Balance on hand $536.15 
200 THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS June, 19S2 
The following report from the Sec­retary, James E. Armstrong, '25, was read by President Hayes: 
Mr. Francis H. Hayes President of the Alumni Association 

Dear Mr. Hayes Despite serious financial difficulties during the fiscal year just passed, your administration, from the stand­point of the Executive Secretary, has been filled with significant progress. The treasurer's report gives the dollars and cents story of our joining in the big parade of depression. A little more clear in indicting the mem­bership is the statement that our dues paying members dropped off five hun­dred, or tweny-five per cent, over the previous year. This in itself was not unexpected, but the failure of more fortunate members who have been careless about their dues to come to the front in this crisis and fill up the gap is a real cause for concern. Participation of alumni in the Rockne Memorial was outlined in the latest issue of the ALUMNUS. It was very disappointing in numbers, though satisfying in the per capita pledge, beyond expectations. In too many cases, alumni have apparently hesitated between the projects of the Association and the Memorial, to the detriment of both through ultimate inaction. The Memorial definitely, if in no other way than through a vol­untary muffling of appeal for dues and Living Endowment last summer and fall, resulted in a falling off of the finances of the -A^ssociation. This is not a complaint at all, but a logi­cal explanation of a part of our fiscal problem. 
Contributors to Living Endowment, notivithstanding the above circum­stances, numbered 342, with a total pledge of $4,463, indicating that the principle of the Fund is definitely and favorably established. The new 10-Year Plan evolved by the Board of Directors this year gives individual alumni. Clubs and Classes, a definite and workable basis upon which to lay plans for participation. 
The Constitutional Committee, co­operating with you and your board, evolved and presented the Constitu­tion which was voted upon in Decem­ber, adopted, and is now in effect. 
Under this Constitution the 1932 Ballots carried nominations for two new district officers, created to bring a closer unity between the Clubs and the National Association, and a sec­ond -i-ice-president to carry out the de­tails of establishing and polishing this system of governors. The Class of 1932 met May 19 and elected the Di­rector for Graduating Class, who will sit on the Board for the coming year. 
They also elected at that time "their Class Secretary and Class Eepresen­
tative for the Living Endowment 
Fund. 
Five new Alumni Clubs were or­ganized during the year,—Sioux City, Iowa; Kane County, the nucleus of which is Aurora and Elgin, 111.; Kan­sas; Bridgeport, Conn., and Water­bury, Conn. In addition three Clubs, Binghampton, Albany and the Fox River Valley, organized under the new-titles Triple Cities, Capitol District and Green Bay respectively, for more effective work. 
Three thousand names of non-grad­uates of recent years were added to the card files in the Alumni Office, both alphabetical and geographical. The addressing of all alumni litera­ture was done on the equipment in the Office, with a great improvement in correct mailing lists, despite the heavy migration due to business con­idtions. 
The most important work • insti­tuted this year was the system of Alumni Contacts, inaugurated in con­junction with the office of the Regis­trar, Robert Riordan, '24. This was an experiment this year, touching only the fundamentals of the princi­ple involved. But its success indi­cates its advisability as a permanent feature of alumni activity. In brief the plan is this—^when a student writes to Notre Dame for a catalogue or information, the Registrar's Office sends the name and address on a pi-inted alumni contact form to the Alumni Office. Where there is a Lo­cal Club in the community of the boy inquiring, the Office send.« '•his card either to the officers or to a commit­tee which a number of the Clubs ap­nointed for this specific purpose. Where there is no Club, the Office sends the card to some active alum­nus. The response has been most en­couraging, in several instances bring­ing co-operation from alumni who had not sho^vn any sign of life for years. 
Ramifications of the above plan ap­peared in the form of queries from high schools and prep schools. Alum­ni contacted these, notably in Chica­go, Rochester, N. Y., and New York City. • Results indicated untold pos­sibilities in this activity for the Local Club or Contact Committee. So im­pressive was the result of these early efforts that in May, the University followed up the plan by sending mem­bers of the faculty to a number of preparatory schools. The growing cus­tom of high and preparatory schools to hold so-called College Nights in­dicates that the University and the Alumni will have a permanent and important field for this type of ac­tivity. 
In the Fall of the year. Alumni Hall, named in recognition of the ac­tivities of the Alumni in the drive for Old Students Hall some years ago, was opened for students. The Alum­ni Fund of 1930-31 was used, in part, to purchase the beautiful central al­tar of marble in the Chapel of this Hall. This altar was dedicated in May by Bishop Noll. 
For the first time in the history of the Association, Clarence "Pat" Man-ion, vice-president, visited four of the Eastern Clubs in addition to an un­official stop in New York where he contacted Club President Hugh O'Donnell. The visits in Buffalo, Al­bany, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh were productive' of much good that, in the nature of most analyses, will take a little time to show. 
Alumni enjoyed an achievement during the year which brings them honor by reflection, the discovery of synthetic rubber by Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, '99. This great contribution to the scientific world redounded to the academic glory of the University and the credit of all Notre Dame men. 
A quietly prepared and little her­alded achievement, the Religious Sur­vey of Alumni was completed and published at the opening of the cal­endar year, January. It has attracted nation-wide attention in academic as well as religious circles. It is the first of its kind. Approximately 20% of our lay alumni participated in the Survey, giving the author a very rep­resentative cross-section of alumni life. The author, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, an alumnus of the Class of 1913, has done so much for religious life on the campus and is so familiar to alumni that the high­est praise would be but repetition. He worked tirelessly and understand­ingly on the Survey, producing from the varied statistics a significant vol­ume that will ser\'e as an invaluable handbook and guide to Catholic edu­cators everywhere. 
The beautiful new Engineering building, gift of John F. Cushing, 
C.E. '06, was opened for the second semester. Details of the gifts and the building have appeared in the ALUM­NUS. 
The ALUMNUS, official organ of the Association, had perhaps its worst year. Only nine issues were contemplated, omitting the Septem­ber issue at the beginning. As the financial situation became more acute, further curtailment was imperative, and the Februarj' and April issues were combined with the March and May issues. A general saving of some two thousand dollars was effect­ed in the magazine this year, but the policy of curtailment is, in the opinion of the Secretary, questionable at best. The publication next year will depend very largely upon budget indications in August. Some form of publication is essential to the life of the organization. The ALUMNUS, as these magazines go, has not been 

June, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
pretentious or costly beyond the de­
gree warranted by the dignity of the 
purpose it serves. 
To comment here again on the cost of the Association, we have op­erated on an average cost of two dollars per capita, some fifty per cent below the figures estimated for the average alumni association. In only one phase has the Office overlooked economy, and that is in the field of contact. Much has been sacrificed to preserve for Notre Dame, through continued mailing of the magazine, contact with a large number of alum­ni who have apparently shown little interest. Returns have indicated that these contacts are not only not lost, but are actually very much to the ultimate advantage of the University. And what aids Notre Dame aids also Notre Dame men. You are judged, as a Notre Dame man. not by the Notre Dame of 1890 or of 1907 or even 1927, but by the Notre Dame of today. Needless to add that the great prog­ress of the University has added ma­terially to the status,—academic, busi­ness, professional, and social — of alumni. 
Individual alumni everywhere arc mirroring, even in these terrific time.s, the inevitable progress that must come to the men of Notre Dame. In political victories, in international honors, in scientific discoveries, in economic legislation, in professional success, in business achievements, in all parts of the world, Notre Dame alumni are making good. Coming from an institution that breathes sacrifice in the same breath as achievement, these times have proved only the better the mettle of Notre Dame men. 
The Association, with all its diffi­culties, cannot but reflect these ad­vancements. 
JAJIES E. AR.MSTRONG, 
Alumni Secretary. 

The following resolution of condol­ence was presented from the floor by a committee consisting of Walter Clements, '14, Mark Duncan, '15, and James E. Sanford, '15, chairman: 
"Whereas God, in His wisdom, has taken from this life: Joseph A. Hig­gins, 1915, Hartford, Conn.; Arthur 
C. Hatten, 1926, Webb City, Mo.; John Eggeman, Jr., 1924, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Basil J. Soisson, 1913, Connells­ville, Pa.; William J. McGrath, 1920, Chicago, III.; Norbert Endres, 1927, Evansville, Ind.; Edward Bohmer, 1927, Louisville, Ky.; Walter G. Eose­ner, 1931, South Bend, Ind.; John W. Foirbing, 1900, Albany, New York; Eev. Walter A. Lavin, C.S.C, 1910, Notre Dame, Ind.; Dr. Austin O'Mal­ley, LL.D., 1895, Philadelphia, Pa.; Joseph Dietrich, 1864, Bismarck, No. Dakota; Philip H. Vogel, 1880, Colum­bus, Ohio; Dr. Henry B. Luhn, 1886, Moscow, Idaho; Eev. Thomas Hen­nessy, C.S.C, 1898, Louisville, Ky.; 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1898, Detroit, Blich.; George J. Cooke, 1880, Chicago, 111.; Thomas F. Guthrie, 1894; Minne­apolis, Minn.; Ben Spalding, M. D., 1890, Bardstown, Ky., loyal and de­voted members of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association dur­ing the past year, and 
"Whereas those members have served their Alma Mater with gloi-y in their respective avocations, 
"Be it resolved that this Associa­tion extend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives with promise of prayers that the same God in His mercy will be generous to their souls and gi'ant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
"Be it further resolved that an ex­pression of the above be written on the official records of the Alumni As­sociation and a copy sent to the be­reaved relatives." 
The results of the election of officers was announced by President Hayes, culminating with the introduction of Clarence "Pat" Manion, '22, the new president, as toastmaster, a position for which he had been selected as vice-president of the Association last year. 
In a bi'ief but customarily happily phrased introductory address Presi­dent JManion indicated the seriousness with which he contemplates the task his new position trusts upon him. 
As a first step in the evening, he called upon the representatives of the Reunion Classes, by groups, to arise and be recognized and acclaimed. As a tribute to the 25-Year Class, 1907, the toastmaster introduced the Very Eev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, its 
youngest and most illustrious mem­
ber, who responded in the admirable 
manner so inseparably associated with 
any appearance of the present Supe­
rior General of the Congregation of 
Holy Cross. The Class of 1932 was 
also introduced to the Banquet. 
Moving rapidly to the anticipated 
highlight of the evening, Toastmaster 
Manion introduced the Eev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, President of the University. The eloquent and powerful address of the President ap­pears as a separate feature of this issue. 
While the Aiumni Banquet was in progress, the Studebaker Band gave its annual concert to a large audience of Commencement visitors at 7 o'clock on the main quadrangle. 
At 8:30, the University Glee Club, under the able direction of its popu­lar leader, Joseph J. Casasanta, '23, gave its annual Commencement con­cert in Washington Hall. The twenty-t\vo widely varied numbers of the Club and its soloists, divided into two pleasantly crowded parts, kept a large audience thrilled and delighted until the final note. The nation-wide praise of the Club this year was more than justified in the minds of those who were fortunate enough to hear the closing concert. 
Following the Banquet, the Class of '27, and a number of guests from among the alumni of other classes, adjourned to the Knights of Colum­bus home in South Bend, where the local committee, Ed De Clercq, Herb Jones, and Paul Butler, the latter Grand Knight of the South Bend Council, had planned an informal get-together. 
THE ALUMNI BANQUET 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C-S. C, 'OB, President of the University; Frank 
H. Hayes, '14, Retiring President of the Association; iVery Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, '07, Superior General; and the Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, D.D., LL.D., '2.1. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
SUNDAY, JUNE 5 
Realizing that the 500 Seniors, and even two guests to each, would more than fill Sacred Heart Church, the Commencement Committee went quiet­ly about the task of arranging for the Baccalaureate Mass to be said in the natural cathedral of the quadrangle, with the altar on the porch of the Main Building, if weather permitted. Heaven seemed to smile on these plans, with a clear sunlit morning. Accord­ingly the impressive ceremonies of the Solemn Pontifical Mass, with the Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, pontificating, were conducted on this outdoor altar. The natural acoustics of the campus ser\'ed to bring the harmony of the Moreau Seminary Choir to the crowd which filled the grounds, while a spe­cial amplifier cax'x-ied the clear voice of the Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, D.D., Bishop of Fall River, to the most remote corner of the quadrangle. Bishop Cassidy's brilliant sermon is reprinted separately in this issue. 
Following the Mass, the Senior Flag was blessed and the University Band led the Seniors to the flag pole where the Flag, presented to Notre Dame on Washington's Birthday, was raised. 
At noon two luncheons were held in the University Dining Halls. In the Lay Faculty Dining Room the Notre Dame Council of the Knights of Co­lumbus entertained Martin H. Car­mody. Supreme Grand Knight of the Order, prior to his receiving an LL.D. in the afternoon. James K. Collins, retiring Grand Knight, and John Ca-hill, incoming Grand Knight of the Council, wex-e present. Raymond A. Hoyer, director of the Knights of Co­lumbus Boy Guidance Foundation at the University, acted as Toastmaster. Louis F. Buckley, '28, district deputy of the Order, introduced a number of ^dsiting knights. Among those pres­ent were John C. TuUy, '11, first Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council; Timothy P. Galvin, '16, for­mer State Deputy for Indiana; Henry Hasley, '28, Grand Knight of the Fort Wayne Council; Robert Irmiger, '28, former Grand Knight of the Notre Dame Council; and a number of Knights from South Bend Council. 
•• The University's admiration for the Supreme Grand Knight and his Order, celebrating its Golden Jubilee this year, is summed up in the eloquent address given by Rev. John J. Rey­nolds, C.S.C, '17, Chaplain of Notre Dame Council. 
"On this, the Golden Jubilee of the Knights of Columbus, the University of Notre Dame might have honored this outstanding Order of Catholic laymen in the person of its distin­guished and gifted leader for many reasons. 
"Take its charitable record, whose figures are written actually in letters of gold. In its short span of fifty years, which is the age of infancy as institutions grow old, it has expended thirty-five millions of dollars (?35,­000,000) in insurance to widows and fatherless children. Its multitudinous benefactions are becoming as numer­ous as the very stars and as universal as their shining. At one time or an­other one reads of fifty thousand dol­lar contributions to the victims of floods in Mississippi; to the refugees from earthquakes in Japan; to desti­tute from hurricanes in Florida; to the stai-ving farmers of Colorado from drought, and so on ad infinitum but cui bono. 

"These gifts are numerous enough to arouse in you weariness at their recitation in deed, but in fact they must awake in you enthusiasm for their universality and generosity. Suf­fice it to saj' for this phase of Knights of Columbus work, that it has been adequately appreciated by no less an authority than the Holy Father him­self who has stated that no lay society has done so much for the cause of Catholicity, since the Church was in­stituted by Christ, as the Knights of Columbus. 
"Then there is its record under fire during the World War. "Doughboy" has a special significance for every 
K. of C, in that the Order expended the huge sum of forty-three millions on the soldiers of the American Expe­ditionary Force. I know that if you polled a vote among the American soldiers in France, Belgium and America as to which organization won the World War in the way of prestige for services rendered you would get a unanimous vote for the Knights of Columbus. Its slogan is a treasurable memory to every veteran: 'Everything free, evei-ybody welcome.' 
"The Commander-in-Chief of the American Army and Na\'y, the Presi­dent of the United States, Woodrow Wilson, during the World War acknowledged this debt of the United States to the Knights of Columbus when on August 6, 1919, he presented to James A. Flaherty, Supreme Knight of the Knights of Columbus, a D. S. M., 'in token of his own high leadership and in recognition of the distinguished and conspicuous service rendered to the Army of the United States by him and the great organiza­tion of which he is in command.' 
"General John J. Pershing ex­pressed the same sentiment in 1925 when he said: 'Of all the organiza­tions that took part in the winning of the war, with the exception of the military itself, none was so efficiently and ably administered as the Knights of Columbus.' 
"The University of Notre Dame is neither a charitable nor a military in­stitution. While it acknowledges your achievements along these lines, it sum­mons you here to take honors for accomplishments in its own field of education. It was edified to see you give three thousand five hundred dol­lars (?3,500) to Cardinal Mercier to help rebuild his war-shattered Lou-vain; two thousand five hundred dol­lars ($2,500) to Archbishop Christie to fight the iniquitous Oregon School Bill successfully before the Supreme Court of these United States; half a million dollars, (§500,000) to the Catholic University to found post­graduate scholarships to' supply a quota of Catholic professors to State universities proportionate to the Cath­olic tax money that is taken up to support them. Notre Dame itself would be poorer by a Manion, a Du­bois, and O'Grady if it were not for this. You also gave Catholic Uni­versity fifty thousand dollars ($50,­COO) to establish a chair of Histoi-y to keep the wells of fact from being poisoned by enemy minds. You saved the Italian Boy at the door of the Vatican from a threat of proselytiza­tion at the hands of the American Protestant Methodist Episcopal or­ganization by the gift of one and a half millions of dollars ($1,500,000) for play grounds and equipment. You took the Catholic American Boy out of the alley and poolroom and taught him wholesome fun in wide open places full of God's fresh air and sun­shine under college bred Boy Guidance men. You have evangelized the air for the past t\vo years at the cost of ten thousand dollars ($10,000). We could forget all this and still be moved to honor you for the fact that you educated three hundred thousand 
(300,000) soldiers come home from foreign wars, placed four hundred fifty (450) of them in college and saw t\vo hundred eighty-four (284) of them graduate. 
"May we not then sum up your cause in the memorable words of the Calvin Coolidge of 1919: 'Your Order has shown its steadfast devotion to American principles and -American ideals. There is no finer Knighthood. In it your noble Order has stood re­sisting evil counsel, supporting every patriotic cause, following the truth at every hazard, exemplifying anew the eternal principle: "The truth shall make you free."' 
"So long, then, as there are Knights of Columbus to carry on, the Fla­hertys and the Carmodys, so long will there be for every noble work, so long will there be against every bed-sheeted terror of the night, as Chesterton says, a 
"Don John poundins from the slaURhter paint­ed poop. Purplinff all the ocean like a hloody pirate :i sloop. ­Scarlet running over on the silvers and the golds. Breaking of the hatches up and bursting of the holds. Thronging of the thousands up that labor under sea White for bliss and blind for sun and stunned for liberty." (Continued on Page 220) 
June, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


The Baccalaureate Sermon 
By The Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, D.D., LLD. 
(Matthew XXVIII. 19) 
usage and occupancy. If good work, laborious work, honest work, conscien­tious work, Christ-w-ork has been done with body, mind and soul, both by you and by your teachers as well, then we have an earnest and promise of safety, stability, security, permanency and unshaken resistance to the storms and stress of the life of the world. 
But if what has been done has been done in carelessness, done imperfect­ly; if there are great hidden voids where all should be solidly filled; if, under a thin veneer, there are great empty spaces ready to open at un­usual or untoward pressure; you may continue for a time in apparent se­curity and success but the house which you have erected shall be builded on sand, shall be a delusion and a snare, wrought for your own downfall and perchance in its tumbling to earth for the destruction of these about you. 
This much I say, gentlemen, not only as an admonition to you whose work here is mostly done but as a timely admonition to those who fol­low after you, yea, to those, who, I hope, in fear and trembling and not in any feeling of false security or per­verted intent, have engaged in the most sacred and critical task of direc­tion and superintendence and training and education of young souls for the battlefield of life, for the halls of peace at home, whereon awaits them either fulfillment of hope or disap­pointment of desire, either life or death, not only temporal but eternal. And now we arrive at the main thesis of my discourse: I have said: 
"In the education of young souls." For it is the education and direction and training of the soul to which Christ's divine mission to teach is ulti­mately directed and it is because the soul, with all the tremendous conse­quences, is involved that the church, through its children and subjects, pre­sumes to establish and control and conduct, with other secular schools of learning, this University of secular as w:ell as of spiritual teaching. It is ultimately the soul's welfare and in­terest and protection and sanctifica­tion that is the church's warrant for engaging in the work that is here so well done. In other words, the church is vitally interested in education not ultimately for the body's sake, not ul­timately for the mind's sake, but ulti­mately because the soul and its eternal 

"Going ThereFore, Teach Ye All Nations. 
Graduates of 1932: In these words is embodied the church's divine mission to teach. But in applying this text to a place of learning such as this, the alert mind would be apt to object that it does not apply. "This commission to teach," it would be said, "given to the church by the Omniscient Teacher and Source and Giver of all knowledge, is meant alone for the teaching of the things of God and not for the teaching of pro­fane and secular matters." Were this objection to stand it would be fatal to an institution such as is the University of Noti-e Dame. It would make evident that the church is intruding here upon a field in which it has no divine right to work. I say "the church"; for I trust that no one will gainsay that this University, owned and controlled and conducted by priests for the education of men, is essentially and in all its functibnings, working for and by and of and from the church which Jesus Christ on earth established. It is, indeed, in every sense, a most important work­ing factor of the teaching church, dealing with material and secular knowledge if you will, but dealing with them in order that art and sci­ence and law and literature and even physical culture, things of the mind and body alone but yet of the heavens and earth proclaiming the glory of God, may be rightly interpreted and properly directed and made to co­operate in the glorifying of the Crea­tor and the enlightenment and the preservation and sanctification of the creature. .A.nd you. Graduates of the Class of 1932, have come to the termination of your direct and immediate University education and training at the hands of the church's children. You are here assembled that a most unworthy suc­cessor of the very group to whom Christ Himself gave the teaching com­mission shall make the voice of the church echo and vibrate in your physi­cal, mental and spiritual faculties as you cross the threshold of this Uni­versity on your way out into the wider if not wiser world. Archbishop Spaulding, one of our church's most distinguished scholars and educators, has well said: "To few does life bring a brighter day than that which places the crown upon their scholastic labors and bids 
them go forth from their Alma Mater to the world's great battlefield. Fame though hymned by myriad tongues is not so sweet as the delight we drink in this sacred hour from the teax-­dimmed eyes of those who love us; a sacred hour filled with a wealth of memories which lasts through the years of life." A sacred hour which for you approaches. 
It is true that the academic approv­al which will this afternoon betoken the end of your university labors does not necessarily signify the end of study. Many of you, I hope, will con­tinue in post-gi'aduate work and in professional occupation to perfect and enlarge that which you have here be­gun. Be that as it may, however, you are fast approaching the end of an epoch, a most important epoch in your training for life beyond these grounds of Notre Dame. May I not truly say that whatsoever you may be or do in the future is grounded upon that which is this week completed? "Have I builded well?" This is the question that should be in your minds today. If those to whom it has been given to erect these beautiful buildings, this glorious House of the Lord, had laid the foundations in insecurity and un­safety; if they had satisfied them­selves with constructing upon the sur­face-sand and gravel; if they had not used granite of great crushing power and cement capable of setting hard as flint; the superstructure and these lofty towers might temporarily rise in architectural symmetry and beauty of form; but insecurity, unsafeness and danger would be written on every stone and brick and pinnacle and though the buildings might stand for a time in apparent stability, they would soon show signs of weakness, there would be many ugly cracks and costly leaks; yea, in stress of frost and wind and storm the whole might inevitably come crashing to the earth a shapeless, hopeless, death-dealing mass of wreck and min, in the col­lapse destroying as well those who dwelt and trusted therein. 
And so, my dear graduates, it is with your education, the foundations, and the super-structure, if not the finishing touches, of which, are now completed. The edifices that you have built within these University walls and ground, your lives, your charac­ters, are soon to be put to the test of 
204 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS Jtine, 1932 
interests are at stake. Let us reflect a moment on the true meaning of the word "education." Worcester, in de­fining "education" says: 
"Education comprehends all that series of instruction and discipline which is intended to enlighten the un­derstanding, correct the temper, form the manners and habits of youth and fit them for usefulness in their future stations." 
To supply all that serves for in­struction and discipline; to enlighten the understanding; to correct the tem­per; to form the manners and habits of men; to fit them for usefulness in 
•their future stations of life—life tem­poral, life eternal, for these things must the University of Notre Dame stand if she is to be true to her name. Sane, wholesome, true. Christian de­velopment of the young men's physi­cal, intellectual and spiritual facul­ties, this is the education at which the church through this University as elsewhere, aims; it is the only educa­tion worthy of the aim and effort and sacrifice of any and all Christian peoples. 
The Church does not seek alone in­struction and discipline of the body; that is physical culture. In this field Notre Dame is indeed distinguished. It does not seek alone instruction and discipline of the intellect. In this field of intellectuality Notre Dame stands pre-eminent. But while training and strengthening and developing the body, while instructing and developing and disciplining the mind, to instruct and discipline the soul, to give devel­opment and correct direction to the aspirations and callings of that ele­ment of man's make-up which trans­cends all body and all mind, this alone is true education. Any other is in­complete, is imperfect, is false educa­tion, is unworthy not only of a church, seeking spiritualities and soul perfection but alike unworthy of an age which demands perfection in all things. If I may say so Notre Dame leads all in stl•i^^ng for this perfect education. 
Instruction and discipline of the body; instruction and discipline of the mind; instruction and discipline of the soul; for these things stands our Holy Mother Church and for them she must ever stand as she stands forever with the Christ who made sound the sick, who gave reason to the irrational, who opened Paradise for saint and sinner alike. We believe that God is Creator of the body, that God is the Creator of the mind, that God is the Creator of the soul. Of each of these created things He will require the first best fruits "And another Book was opened, which is the Book of Life and the dead will be judged by these things which Were written in the books according to their works, (Apoc 20-12). Hence Christ's church deals 
sacredly with body and mind and soul alike. She has her gymnasiums and schools of physical culture, but she knows only too well that the physical giant may be an immoral monster, she has her science and her art and lecture halls, she knows, too, that the intellectual master may have a totally depraved heart. In unfolding to the developing mind the wonders and secrets of material creation; in expos­ing and explaining to the young stu­dent the stupendous results of man's intellectual power and labor, the Church never forgets and you should never forget that as the mind is supe­rior to the body; just as matter is surpassed and transcended by men­tality, so the soul transcends and sur­passes both body and mind, both mat­ter and mentality; and that if Wor­cester has exjiressed truth when he wrote: "Education is the enlighten­ment of the understanding" there is no true, complete and perfect educa­tion while the understanding is in ignorance of man's best and highest part, his soul. Dwarfed and stunted, undeveloped and uneducated is the understanding that is not flooded by some gleam of the light of the knowl­edge of the soul, of the things above and beyond the passing things of earth and earthly matter; and com­plete and perfect education can only come when 'ha\'ing been seen here darkly as through a glass we, in the hereafter, face to face, see God, all power, all knowledge, all wisdom, all truth. For God is the Perfection of all these. And to possess power, to have knowledge and wisdom, to know truth even imperfectly we must pos­sess and have and know God. The perfect power, the full knowledge, the unmeasureable wisdom, the whole truth can only be enjoyed in the ob­taining of God in Beatific Vision. This attainment of God in Beatific Vision we believe to be man's ultimate end. We believe then that it is most unfor­tunate that God is excluded ftom much present-day education. Train­ing men for life's battle, launching them out upon the stormy seas of the bitter struggle for existence, sending men where the world, the flesh and the devil will engage them in a death-struggle and at the same time with­holding from them the spiritual arma­ment, means and power of triumphing over materialities,—of soul protection given them by the Creator in soul-de­velopment and soul-perfection, this we believe to be something more than a blunder, it is an oflfense against the individual, against society, against the Creator. It might be called a harsher name, a crime; a crime against God, against men, against the state, against society, against civilization, to send out into the walks of life, into the country's marts, into the nation's sacred homes, countless multitudes of men and women strong and fair in 
body and well-informed in mind, but all-soul-ignorant and undeveloped. 
But against you, graduates of Notre 
Dame of 1932, (whatsoever be your faith) no such offense has been com­mitted. All that God-believing, God­fearing, God-trusting, God-loving, self-sacrificing religious teachers and trainers could do for you has been done. All that the Church of Christ, out of its maternal limitations and restrictions could give you has been given. No effort has been spared, no labor thought too great, no sacrifice too costly to bring you to this day, strong in body, trained and developed in mind, imbued and equipped and armed with faith, with hope, with love of God, God the Father, God the .Son, God the Holy Ghost, that you might go forth as those with lighted torches in hand, illumining the dark places of the earth with the Spirit of 
Notre Dame. 
Graduates of 1932, to the question: "Is religion worth the while?" multi­tudes of your fellow-men, so blind that they will not see, are giving a nega­tive answer. As a corollary of that question comes another: "Is religious education worth the while?" Who shall prove to the doubting world that it is, who shall prove the worth of Catholic education, the worthiness of Catholic University graduates, if not the graduates of Notre Dame. 
And let us be honest with ourselves. A critical world is asking today: "Is Catholic education worth the while? Is God getting a fair return for the great price that is being paid, par­ticularly in these United States for Catholic education? I say "a great price." For the history of the human race from the beginning of the world until now gives no par example of the sacrifice of men, means and money that is now being made in this coun­try for Catholic education. From the parochial kindergarten to the Uni­versity such as this, the great part of the burden of the whole structure of Catholic education voluntarily is car­ried largely upon the labor-sore and weary-bent shoulders of the poor, that God may be known and adored and glorified and loved in spirit and in truth and that man may love his neighbor as himself and that by our fruits they shall know us as children of Christ. I beg you. Graduates of Notre Dame of 1932, in your lives, both public and private, make the price paid for Catholic education worth the while, for God and country. God needs you much today. How much our Holy Father Pius XI tells us in his latest encyclical. Man needs you much today. How much the Su­preme Pontiff tells you in the same spiritual classic. At His call all the Catholic world today is kneeling in prayer and reparation before the Eu­
(Continued on Paee 2X7) 

Jiine, 1932 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 




Honoris Causa 

A latcycr and mtbtie man of international distinction by reason of his service in connection with tht economic and financial problems eonseQitcnt upon the Wor'd tVar, a private citizen fondbj esteemed by the common folk of his home community atid hy the University in ichich he received his college educattoji as a Icindly human philosoi}her and a simple D American, unhurt and unehanfjcd by success, in service to his country worthy to stand with Bc7i3amin Franklin and all 
a a

the great of American history —the HONORABLE OWEN 
D. yOVNG, of New York City. 

A member of the hierarchy, distinguished by his zeal in the administration of his diocese, his practical interest in Catholic education, his ardent devotion Co the caitse of tem­perance, and his fruitful efforts to realize among his pcop'c the eonditions for the workingmcn proposed to the world in the cncycticaL letters of Popes Ceo XHf and Pius Xt — the mOST REVEREKD JAMES E. CASSWY, of Fall River, Massachusetts. 
The REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
A7t eminent Catholic layman and latcycr who in his pro~ fcssional capacity ajid as supreme officer of the Order of the Knights of Colunibus has rendered signal service to religion and to country, especially in his work for the welfare of our Catholic Boys — the HONORABLE MARTIN HENRY CAR­MODY, of Grand Rapids, Michigan, and Neic Haven, Conn. 
A scientist and engineer noted for his genius in the field a o of tclejihony and his achievements in the extension of the range of the human word, who, by his good Christian philos­D ophy and, in particular, by his insistence on the Deity aa the only possible explanation of the things that are, makes his jirofcssion of engineering a convincing apostolate — the HONORABLE SERGtUS P, GRACE, of Neto York City. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
Laetare Medal Presented ta Dr. S. J. Maher 
Governor Cross, Bishop Mc-Auliffe, Mayor Murphy, Among Oignitaries; Vice-President of Notre Dame Eulogizes Worb of Noted Tuberculosis Specialist. 
Surrounded by a group of educa­
tors, doctors and dignitaries of the 
church, state and city, Dr. Stephen J. 
Maher received the Laetare medal 
for distinguished service as a Catho­
lic laj-man for 1932, May 25 while 
an assemblage of several hundred 
witnessed the presentation on the 
campus of Albertus Magnus college. 
New Haven, Conn. 
The Rev. Daniel M. Galliher, 0. P., 
J.C.D., of Albertus Magnus college, 
opened the ceremonies after the aca­
demic procession to the main hall of 
the college with a message of greet­
ing as follows: 
"As the representative of the ad­ministration and faculty of Albertus Magnus college, it is my pleasing privilege to greet you who favor us with your presence on this joy­ous occasion, and to voice an expres­sion of sincere and cordial felicita­tions to the distinguished member of the college advisory board, in whose honor you are here this after­noon assembled. In this age when the grand ideals are fast fading from the minds of men, when the grand words of the days of old are grow­ing silent on their lips, it is indeed refreshing and encouraging to find an unselfish devotee of scholarly sci­entific effort spending himself and being spent in the sen'ice of his fel­low men, in the alleviation of human suffering, and in the furtherance of the finer and nobler things of life. Hence, it is but fitting, sir, that a great American university should recognize your priceless and bene­ficial contributions to mankind, and that a distinguished representative of this university should come here to confer upon you its coveted mark of approval, which publicly places you upon a pinnacle of greatness among those scholarly and illustrious geniuses who are not bom to die. 
"It is fitting, too, that this public recognition of scientific achievement takes place within the portals of the only educational institution in our land that is humbly carrying on its uplifting mission under the protec­tion and patronage of the greatest scientific figure of mediaeval and modem times—the immortal Albert the Great. We, the disciples of the saintly Albert, share in the joy and 

FR. MULCAKE PRESENTS LAETARE MEDAL 
The Most Rev. Maurice McAulife, D.D., Ajixiliary to the Bishop of Hartford; Hon. Wilbur L. Cross, Governor of Connectiait; Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, C. S. C, Ph.D., Vice-President of Notre Dame, and Dr. Stepheii J. Maher, Laetare Medallist for 1932. 
happiness that is yours today, and lowmen in one of the oldest and most we breathe a fervent prayer that honorable professions. this unique distinction that comes to 
"In recognition of this splendid and you today will be an encouraging in­unique service, inspired not merely by spiration and incentive to still greater humanitarian motives but by the holi­and more far-reaching efforts for the est principles of Christian thought, suffering children of Our Father's and in recognition of personal worth fold." 

which your native modesty has not 
Father Galliher was followed by been able altogether to conceal, the the Most Reverend Maurice F. Mc-University of Notre Dame asks you, Auliffe, auxiliary bishop of the dio­Stephen J. Maher, to accept the Lae­cese, and Mayor Murphy, who ex­tare Medal for this year of Our Lord tended the greetings of the diocese nineteen hundred and thirty-two. May and the city, respectively. you w^ear it unto length of days in 
the serene enjoyment that comes Presentation of the Laetare Medal from the consciousness of work well to Dr. Maher was made by Rev. 
done, and may you receive it as an Michael A. (Mulcaire, C.S.C," Ph.D., 
earnest of that fuller, future recog­vice-president of the University of nition w^hose beatitude passeth under­Notre Dame. In making the presen­standing." 
tation Father Mulcaire read a mes­sage from Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, In accepting the award Dr. Maher C.S.C, president of the University, said: which follows in part: "My dear, dear friends, if there is 
"Sir, this year the University of one character of fiction that I detest Notre Dame admits you to the dis­more than all others it is Uriah Heep. tinguished company of her ~ Laetare I trust you will not ascribe to me any Medallists. Your title to enrollment of his characteristics when I tell you there is established by the distinction that I have been overwhelmed with you have achieved in your chosen field amazement, joyful amazement at the of endeavor and in your character as altogether surprising decision of Notre a Catholic gentleman. Your life has Dame University to award to me the made it clear that the one success has Laetat« Medal for 1932, but that depended upon the other as upon its have been delighted beyond my power cause. In other words, your Catholic of expression, at finding that the faith, has been .the light and inspira­awarding of this medal to me, has tion, the safeguard and the strength given unmistakable joy to you my of your lifelong service to your fel-(Continued on Page 215) 
Jtme, 1932 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
LL.D., '32, Vice-President of the'
The Spirit of Engineering 
By The Hon. Sergius P. Grace, 
Bell Laboratories, New York City. 
(The folloiving address by Dr. Grace was delivered at the dedicatory exer­cises of the Gushing Hall of Engineer­ing on Saturday, June i.—Ed. Note.) 
God merely spoke and things came into ex. istence. The Kpistle to the Hebrews 11:3 says "By faith we understand that the worlds have 6een framed by the Word of God so that what is seen hath not been made out of thin ^ which ippear." 
It was a hot Sunday morning, June 25,1876, at the Centennial Exposition, Philadelphia. No visitors were in the building, and the Committee of Awards on scientific apparatus took this quiet time to study the new in­ventions displayed at the Centennial, among- them Bell's Telephone. Eumors of Bell's electric speaking telephone. had spread, but the world generally was indifferent for the seal of scien­tific approval had not yet been placed upon the invention. This Committee of Awards had celebrated names in its membership—among them Lord Kel­vin, the great English scientist, and Professor James C. Watson of the University of Michigan, at that time one of the world's outstanding astron­omers. What would this Committee say about Bell's Telephone? Would they proclaim it to the world as the marvel invention of the age? Would they predict that by its means human words would speed over wires and through ethereal space with the ve­locity of light? It is a matter of his­tory that this Committee gave the grand prize to Bell's Telephone. 
Let us ponder for a moment what Bell had accomplished. Think of the dream that had e.visted in men's minds from remotest ages to send afar the spoken word, that divine attribute so akin to the Word of God which dis­tinguishes us so sharply from all the rest of the animal kingdom. This burning desire to transmit augmented speech to great distances is classically stated in the following passage from Homer's "Iliad": 
•'And when they were now come to where the most valiant stood. thronsinR about mighty Diomedes. tamer of horses, then stood forth the white-armed poddcss Hera and shouted in the likeness of sreat-hearted Stentor with voice of Bronze, whose cry was laud as the cr>' of fifty men." 
So many of the characters in the "Iliad" have been painted and carved that one would naturally e.xpect to find in the galleries of the world some artist's conception of Stentor, the man with the mighty voice. A search in all the countries of the world has failed to reveal such a painting or statue. It seems as though no painter or sculptor could conceive what a "Stentor" should look like. Yet today Bell's Telephone has developed into such a network of long distance lines, 
tions and public address systems, that 
any man can have his voice amplified 
to a magnitude millions of times 
greater than Stentoi-'s, and send it 
world-wide distances. 
What is the driring force that has brought about this tremendous de-' velopment of the electric motor, the aeroplane, the electric light, the tele­phone, the great docks, bridges, ports, and countless other achievements which have added so much to the ma­terial benefits of man? It is the "Spirit of Engineering Research" so nobly exemplified in the life work of Alexander Graham Bell that has made all of the above possible. Every day research workers, like Father Nieuw­land of Notre Dame, discoverer of synthetic rubber, and like Elmen of the telephone laboratories, creator of new magnetic materials, following in the footsteps of Bell, start on expedi­tions into the scientific unknown to bring back new knowledge for the benefit of man. Like Tennyson's "Ulysses" these explorers say: 
"'Tis not too.iatc to seek a newer world—• 
My purpose holds to sail beyond the sunset. 
And the baths of all the Western Stars until 
I die." 

In a very inspiring address at Dear­born, Michigan, at the celebration of the Edison Light Semi-centennial, President Hoover pointed out the value of scientific research and en­gineering in industry and the price­less worth to society of the scientist and the engineer. He also called at­tention to the fact that the old order had passed where the individual in­ventor worked alone and that today and in the future we must look to co­operative eifort in great laboratoi-y organizations for technical advance­ment. In the first century the Roman, Seneca, said: 
"Nature does not disclose her mysteries in a moment. We think ourselves initiated. We siand but at th& portals. These secrets do not open promiscuously, nor to every comer. They are remote of access, enshrined in the inner sanctuary." 
Although written long ago, these words of Seneca furnish a perfect formula for the conduct of engineer­ing research today, for as President Hoover pointed out, to be effective it must be organized so that groups of scientists and engineers, instead of in­dividuals, attack complex problems. 
To recount the accomplishments of scientific research and engineering in all fields would be entirely beyond the scope of this address. It is current knowledge that in all branches of technology there have been most marvelous advancements. In the field of communication, with which I hap­pen to be somewhat familiar, we today talk half way across the continent over fine threads of copper not much larger than the hair on one's head. By means of radio waves we fling speech across the Atlantic ocean to all European countries. Only recently we conquered the Pacific ocean with the waves of radio and one may speak today from any telephone in .America to those in Hawaii, an&soon, I might add, to the Philippine! and Japan. Air pilots traversing their course across the continent speak to each other and to their ground despatching stations by means of these same etherial waves. 
On the humanistic side of telephone engineering have come such helpful 
AUDITORIUM OF THE CUSHINC BUILDING 
radio connections, broadcasting sta­
208 THE NoTEE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
devices as the artificial larynx for enabling people to speak once again who through surgical operations or paralysis have lost the use of tlieir vocal cords. By means of recently de­signed amplifiers, hearing is being restored to many thousands of the deafened. It was the Master who re­stored the cleft ear of Maldius, the servant of the High Prie.st Caiaphas, after it was smitten off by Simon Peter. Science today walks in the same footsteps and has high hopes of re­storing the cleft ears of the many thousands of the deafened throughout the world. 
We need to go back only a few years to observe the paucity of ma­chines and machine tools that were available to the average man. Indeed using his hands alone this average man had to work all day long and, many times, far into the night just to feed and clothe himself. Until science came to his aid, he was much like the character in Grecian Mythology, "Sis­yphus," who in the lower regions was condemned eternally to roll the stone of forlorn hope up the steeps of des­pair. Today this average individual has material comforts that not so long ago would have been the envy of kings. 
Let us inquire as to when occurred the original start of this triumphal march of Science and Engineering. I think we can safely say that it was the scientific work of Galileo that pro­\nded the yeast to start this scientific ferment. Curiously enough when the name of Galileo is mentioned many people are inclined to emphasize the stories of the controversies of Galileo with the Papal authorities rather than study his majestic scientific accomp­lishments. Galileo said that the earth moves and that the sun was fixed. The Church took the view that man with his Di\ine Spirit, together with the eai-th which he inhabited, was the center of the universe. Later the Newtonian astronomers adopted an absolute theory of space and said that both the sun and the earth move. But now in the light of the mathematics of relativity, all three of these state­ments are equally true, provided that you have fixed your sense of rest and motion. Every heavenly body may re­gard itself at rest and every other one in motion. According to the relativity equation, it becomes a matter of in­difference whether we regard the sun moving around the earth or the earth moving around the sun. There are any number of possible centers from 
which to view the astronomic universe. Alfred North Whitehead in his book on "Science and the Modem World" makes the statement that Pope Urban took issue with Galileo, not because his ideas were heretical, but that they were rash, and perhaps not the whole truth; and Whitehead further added that it seemed as though Pope Urban 
was on the point of enunciating the Ijrinciple of relativitj' of motion. Thus science goes on and on in its 
.attempts to understand the underly­ing mysteries of the universe. Today we are wrestling with the unified field theory of gravity and magnetism. To­morrow there will be still newer theories for as St. Thomas Aquinas so aptly says, "Nothing finite can set at rest the desire for intelligence. Given any finite thing, intelligence always sets to work to apprehend something beyond it." Perhaps in the end we may wind up with the view of Sir James Jeans—^"that if the true es­sence of substances is forever. un­knowable, then the universe can be best pictured as consisting of pure thought, the thought of the Great Architect of the Universe who begins to appear in the role of a master mathematician." In substance this is not much different from the opening quotation of this address from the Epistle to the Hebrews that the worlds have been framed by the Word of God. 
Last fall in New York, Dr. Jacks, Oxford philosopher, made the state­ment that the greatest achievement of mankind in the past three hundred years was the control of the forces of nature by the physical scientists, the men who have carried forward the torch of Galileo. Dr. Jacks further said that when social science does as much for human beings as physical science has done, we shall have a new world to live in. He pointed out that the increasing use of the machine in man's labors would unquestionably bring about greater leisure just as it. has already produced great capital wealth. From time to time critics of the machine age arise and some have even said that science should declare a moratorium for a period of years in order to give the spiritual side of human beings a chance to catch up. One hundred years ago Edgar Allen Poe in his "Sonnet to Science" said in a critical vein: "Hast thou not tiraPKcd Diana from her car. 
And driven the Hamadrj-ad from the wood. To seek shelter in some happier star? Hast thou not torn the Naiad from her flood 7" 
These lines of Poe were written in a little cottage on Fordham Koad in New York long before the days of the telephone, the electric light, the elec­tric motor, the aeroplane, and all modem conveniences. Who would wish to move mankind backward to those primitive days? 
Today, in this modern power era we are dedicating this magnificent Engineering Building, the gift of John F. Gushing, an alumnus of Notre Dame, whose engineering works stamp him as one of the greatest builders of the age. From these halls many skilled research workers and engineers will go forth to advance still further the control over the forces of nature. My plea to these scientists and engin­
eers, and I know that Mr. Gushing joins with me, is that from now on they should not be content merely with physical achievements. They must co-operate in the most complete man­ner with the great leaders of religion, ethics and philosophy, so that man­kind will make the best use of the leisure that the power age is most certainly bringing; and also they must stand ready to co-operate with the economists, social scientists and busi­ness men so that there will be a more equitable distribution of the wealth that the machine is amassing on earth. In the words of Charles -A.. Beard, amending those of Rousseau, "Man was born a slave but the ma­chine will set him free if we use our intelligence." I ask you engineers of the future to use your intelligence, coupled with your technical know­ledge, so that man will be free for all time to come. 

What a beautiful thought it is that the Great Architect of the Universe left this world of ours somewhat un­completed so that we scientists and engineei-s could have the mental stimulation and delight of producing such marvelous devices as the electric light, the telephone, the aeroplane, and the countless other machines that are lightening man's burden. This thought is sublimely expressed in the Hebrew philosophy of the Talmud where it says "Man is the 'shut-off' (the Hebrew word for partner) of the Creator for the re-creation of the things in his realm." Well may we say— 
"Man the Partner of the Creator has became. And all the world is but the sum Of what these two have done." 
Sometimes those steeped in materi­alism are inclined to ask the question, "Will science go on until "everything is found out?" I am sure that the answer is "No" and that the mystery of the ultimate nature of Matter, Energy, Space, Time, and Life itself will forever remain locked within the mind of the Creator. Nevertheless, I am equally sure that the scientists and the engineers under the ceaseless compulsion of the Mind's desire will go on and on to unlock the secrets that lie within the realms of mystery. One by one they are going to turn the pages, the infinite pages, of the book that has been written by the Hand Divine. I have summed up in a few homely lines what I conceive to be the Spirit of Engineering that re­sides deep within the soul of every scientist and engineer. 
THE CREED OF THE RESEARCH 

ENGINEER Time in its lanRuid journey throush the skies. Gives birth to comet-s suns and Nebulaes. But of what is time and how is it made. Is it the 5-csterdays together laid. Or is time just an imaKcry of man To Kuide him throuph life's busy span ? Let science try to iind this riddle's pith. We care not if 'tis matter or mere myth We'll strive each moment ere it swiftly Kocs To Krasp all that to us God will disclose. 
June, 1933 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 209 


Annual Address To The Alumni 
At The Alumni Banquet, 1932 
By Rev. Charles L O'Dcnnell, C.S.C., '06, President of the University 
Alumni and Friends: It occurs to me as I open these remarks that our Commencement Exercises this year fall within the period set aside by the Holy Father for prayers and penance for the relief of the world. I suggest, therefore, that you and I and all of us, as Notre Dame men, respecting the wishes of the Holy Father and recognizing the reasonableness of his request, make an offering of these very days and their separate exercises in conformity with his intention. For most of you, to come back to Notre Dame means a renewal of spirit. For most of you, Notre Dame is connected in your thought with the holiest memories and finest associations of your life. Just to be here, is living out a prayer. But there are inconveniences, too, and the steady round of Commencement activities, for both older and younger alumni, entails its share of personal sacrifice. Now I am sure we should be entirely mde of the mark if we interpreted the Holy Father's mess­age in such a way as to cast gloom over this Commencement week. No one can have any such idea as that, I mean only that, by being here, some special opportunity is presented to us as a body of loyal Notre Dame men to unite in spirit with the intentions of Pope Pius XI, offering these days for the blessing of Providence not only upon ourselves and our own in­terests but also the larger interests of the world. 
Indeed, it seems to me this Com­mencement should be happier even than usual. Certainly I can assure you all goes well with Alma Mater. I have the less hesitation in speaking thus because we all know that the success of Notre Dame is the result of no one man's effort. Notre Dame is a huge organization that functions as such. In its successful function­ing, I will not even admit that there is any hierarchy of effort. The least obscure worker may be in reality the most valuable to the organization as a whole. This is axiomatic at Notre Dame, where teamwork in all depart­ments of endeavor has always been significantly present. No one man can boast of what he does, but no single member of the organization can possibly fail to pay tribute to his fellows. And so tonight I am happy to say a word of thanks publicly, to the higher superiors whose hand sel­dom appears in the workings of the University but whose interest and support are an indispenable condition of progress; to the Board of Lay Trustees who twice a year leave their 
UEV. CHARLES L. O'DOKXELL, C.S.C. President of the University 
own business, many of them to travel considerable distance, coming to Notre Dame to offer their invaluable advice regarding the finances of the Univer­sity; to all the priests and Commun­ity members, to prefects and profes-. sors, to every working man and wom­an in the place, for all of them in their own way are a part of Notre Dame and devoted to Her interests. \\Tien the last reckoning is made, their record will be glorious and their reward complete. 
A few outstanding things that have interested us this year will, no doubt, interest you. Our registration last fall was almost identical with the registration of the previous year. For the first time in our history, so far as we can learn, this year every State in the Union was represented at the same time in our enrollment, in addi­tion to the usual 16 foreign countries. In this conncetion, it is interesting to point out that, in one of the earliest letters Father Sorin wrote back to our venerated founder in France, Father Sorin laid emphasis on the geographical location of Notre Dame as ideal for attracting students from the country as a whole. This was ninety years ago when Northern Indiana was a wilderness and there were, of course, no railroads. Father Sorin himself, however, never prob­ably expected such an eventuality—I will not call it a calamity—as that the time would ever come when Notre Dame should enroll in one year more students from the State of New York than from Indiana, But that has happened this year. 
As for our enrollment next year, the prospect at this moment is good. Of boys now in school, a larger num­ber have signified their intention of returning than has ever been the case before. Out of a total of 2,440 eligible to return, 2,124 have pre-registered for next year. On the other hand, freshman enrollment for next year has fallen 41'^ below the average usually maintained at this time. Be­tween now and the opening of school, mid - September, many things can happen to disturb the present equili­brium. On the whole, however, un­less there should be some cataclys­mic change in our national condition, we have good reason to believe that next year will see us not very far short of our full quota of students. 
Last fall, for the first time in many years, we went on the football field without Rockne. It is safe to say that nobody missed him more as a leader and as a friend than the coach­es who had been associated with him and who had taken up the work in his place. It would be idle to deny that he was missed and that he is missed today. There was only one such coach in the history of college football in oar time. I pass over his other titles to distinction and re­membrance, though I cannot forbear saying that, to Notre Dame men who knew him and loved him as a Notre Dame man. our life is the poorer because he has gone out of it. 
All of us realize, howerer, that tlie last thing he would wish would be any weakening in the spirit or any halt in the stride of Notre Dame athletics. In spite of the fact that we lost two football games, I think it can be said we have kept faith with Rockne. We had won the national championship two years in succession, and even Rockne, I think, would have considered that enough. It was per­haps necessary to show that a school can lose and be invincible in defeat. That is what we did show. What is 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
popularly known as "alibiing" and "squawking" followed our defeat, but it did not come from coaches or play­ers or the school itself. There was nothing heroic about this; there was no such thing as making a virtue of necessity. There was simply a man's acceptance of the fortunes of the field and an honorable retirement from the claim to victory. Nobody was blamed, and our coaching staff was further developed with replacements from graduates of last year's team. That's enough about that. We are recalling right now that the Notre Dame ofiicial song is called "The Victory March" and, like Alfred's followers in Chesterton's poem, we are -harden­ing our hearts with hope'. Also, we have just completed a great spring practice. 
I don't suppose any real Notre Dame man wonders why a thing like football should be touched upon in this annual review of happenings at the school. As far as I am concerned, others are free to wonder as much as they wish. Certainly the great man whom I have just quoted, G. K. Ches­terton, needed no explanations as to the significance of football as played at Notre Dame. His poem, "The Arena," written for us, is proof of that. It might be said in passing that only the Christian culture of which Notre Dame is an expression is broad enough to reconcile apparently con­flicting ideals—^The Queen of Peace whose' Son is the Lord of Hosts. 
A year ago at this time, we an­nounced the opening of the Rockne Memorial Campaign. Some report of that movement is, I believe, in order on this occasion. Briefly, then, we fell far short of the objective set. The chief reason for this, but not the only reason, was, of course, the con­dition of the times. Alumni participa­tion was relatively meagre. I say this not by way of reproach: I am simply telling the story. 10% of the Alunmi, or 409 members, are repre­sented by subscriptions, pledging a total of 520,800.00, an average of $50.00 per contributor. The coaches of the country pledged a total of §4,070.00. Of this amount, 53,550.00 was pledged by Notre Dame men in the coaching field. The average sub­scription of Notre Dame men who are coaching was three times that of the general Alumni average. 
Looking over this whole situation, I find myself recalling that only little more than ten years have passed since the General Endowment drive for a million dollars. Five years were allowed for the payment of those pledges. Following this, an Alumni Fund for a Lay Faculty Foundation Prize was started. Then, four years ago, the partial financing of the Sta­dium through the sale of boxes was undertaken. Two years ago, the Liv­
ing Endowment was established. So that for the past twelve years, fund­raising in one way or another has been practically continuous, and Alumni participation in these projects has been satisfactory. Even in the Rockne Memorial there was consider­able Alumni interest and a great deal of devoted, hard work on the part of some Notre Dame men. But the coun­try was and is demoralized. Accord­ingly, we are discontinuing any fur­ther formal activity at this time. Later, we shall return to it •ivith the hope of better success. We shall probably have to modify our plans as to the scope of the Memorial, but not as to its character. The idea, we believe, is fundamentally sound, the project practical, and the spirit back of it inspiring. 
In the course of the past year, announcement was made of the dis­covery at Notre Dame by Father Nieuwland, '99, of synthetic rubber. Naturally this was gratifying to all of us, though it could not be sur­prising to any of Father Nieuwland's associates or former students who knew of his researches in acetylene, carried on over a period of twenty-five years. It is safe to say that no­body was disturbed or embarrassed in the whole proceeding except the mod­est chemist himself. The announce­ment carried the further information that Father Nieuwland's discovery had been taken up by the DuPont Company, who would proceed to manufacture the product for commer­cial use. It was quite generally as­sumed that Notre Dame would profit enormously in consequence. I think you are entitled to know, however, that as yet the profits have not ap­peared. Thus far, synthetic rubber has been only an expense to all con­cerned. The DuPont Company, I understand, have got no farther than the stage of preparing to build a fac­tory for its manufacture. The terms of the contract between them and the University have not yet been settled. It would be idle to deny that commer­cial possibilities are potentially pres­ent, but as to their realization, that is another matter. The point is that none of us have stopped working in the expectation that this discovery, brilliant and important as it is from many points of view, will remove the mortgage from the old homestead, so 
to speak. Above all. Father Nieuw­land has not stopped working. So that in the course of time there may be other discoveries—and more great wealth to disavow. 
Mention of this advance in the De­partment of Chemistry naturally leads to the subject of graduate work in other departments. I have no intention of discussing this matter in detil at this time. It will be sufficient to say that we recognize this as one 
of the most serious and pressing prob­lems that have to do with the develop­ment of the University. Not all of us view this problem in the same light and, for that reason, I should hesitate to take advantage of this opportunity to express my own convictions on the subject. In any case, I think you may be assured this situation will be care­fully and wisely handled by that fair­ly large group of men to whom the destinies of the University have been entrusted. Looking back over our history, nothing is more striking, it seems to me, than Notre Dame's amazing power, on the one hand, of acting quickly and wisely ir -neetina a crisis, and on the other, its usual habit of slow and deliberate action in all other circumstances. 
Finally, I should like to say, with the utmost emphasis of which I am capable, that there is not and can not be at Notre Dame a fundamental divi­sion on any important principle under­lying University policy. In all that is essential, we are and must be at one. We cannot be blown about by every wind of doctrine, even of educational doctrine. Such division as may arise will be only the healthy divergence of many minds that are alive and work­ing at the same time on questions of method and application. This claim is made for Catholic Education in general, but it has, I believe, in this University an altogether unique valid­ity. 
Ninety j'ears ago, when the foun­ders of this school fought their way through the bitter cold of the un­broken wilderness that stretched from Southern Indiana to this place, their hearts were enkindled and their minds aflame with that fire which the Son of God came to cast upon the earth. They were coming to a spot which they knew had been sanctified for two hundred years before them by the zeal of other missionaries from their own homeland of France. They were coming to St. Mary of the Lake, as Notre Dame was then called. When they arrived, that bleak November morning in 1842, the snow that cov­ered Notre Dame meant only one thing to them, the beauty and grace of the fair Queen of Heaven. On that memorable day, the immortal Sorin stood on the bank of St. Mary's Lake and, with the vision of a prophet, no less than the ardor of a founder and the fealty of a knight at arnfe, claimed this land for his Queen. For­ward through all the future years, he sent his thought and his will, dedi­cating to the Blessed Virgin himself and his Community and all who should ever dwell upon these grounds till time should be no more. The boundless charity of his heart drew no lines of distinction between the men who were to be Mary's children. 
(Continued on Pace 212) 



Collese of Commerce Is Dedicated May 17 
Ceremonies of Dedication Co-incident With the Semi-Annual Meeting of Board of Lay Trustees; President of the University Delivers Principal Address. 
In the presence of the Board of Lay Trustees, assembled for their semi­annual meeting at Notre Dame, Hon. Edward N. Hurley, LL. D., '18, donor, a group of friends and relatives, and faculty and students of the College of Commerce, the new building of the College was officially dedicated on May the Seventeenth. 
Albert Russel Erskine, chairman of the Board of Lay Trustees of which Mr. Hurley is a member, presided at the gathei-ing in the artistic great hall of the building. 
Byron V. Kanaley, '04, a Lay Trus­tee, made the following presentation: 
"Mr. Chairman, Members of the Boai-d 
of Trustees, Father O'Donnell: 
"I have the honor, as an associate .of Mr. Hurley on the Board of Trus­tees of this University, and as his friend, to present to the University in Mr. Hurley's name this magnificent building. Knowing as I do the pur­poses which inspired the donor in making this gift, and knowing from my long association with Notre Dame as a student, an alumnus, and as a trustee, the spix-it of the University itself, I cannot but feel there is a happy meeting of minds in the mu­tual relationship which this benefac­tion establishes between Mr. Hurley and Notre Dame. Therefore it is that, with singular satisfaction and with keen appreciation of the priviledge that is mine, I present to the Univer­sity in the name of its donor, the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce." 
Replying, the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C, '06, President of the University, spoke as follows: 
"For the first time in the history of Notre Dame, a president of the University is in the happy position of accepting from its donor a major benefaction in the form of a building, an establishment designed to facilitate and extend the work of the University . in a particularly important field. Our founders probably dreamed of this day, Mr. Hurley, and in their name and in the name of all who have cher­ished the ideals of this school, I give you thanks, the thanks of ninety years of Notre Dame. More than that, I pledge you the gratitude of unnum­bered years to come, in the name of those generations of students who will be the direct beneficiaries of your foresight and your benevolence in establishing this College. It shall proudly carry your name forward to a posterity that will keep it forever in benediction. 
"In speaking thus, Mr. Hurley, I am aware that embarrassment is crea­ted for you, that some violence is done your modest spirit even that some­thing unreal, if not untrue, is intro­duced in a transaction which is no dream at all but a practical business man's expression of a conviction arrived at by years of observation and experience. Foreign and domestic commerce are realities. They are the veritable axes upon which the mate­rial welfare of nations turns, while their implications go far beyond the bounds of that which is merely mate­rial in the life of peoples. The com­plexities of the problems they present grow with the hour. No man can alone successfully cope with them. Organization is necessary, and not only organization in the actual field of operation, but there must be, too, an organized muster of forces in prep­aration for entrance into the field. 
"Doubtless the day will never come when genius, of whatever kind, need be schooled and trained, but the his­tory of the world forbids us to expect that lesser men can dispense with the help which their fellow-men have learned how to bestow. Education is predicated thus upon experience which confirms belief. That education is not confined to college walls, as we are so often reminded, formal educators should be the first to admit, if for no other reason than because of the im­plied compliment that the college is its natural home. In the laboratory and the lecture hall of experience, here and in other countries, you. Sir, have come to see the marvellous possibili­ties of formal academic training for so practical a thing as modern busi­ness, because life has taught you that trade is not merely, nor even pri­marily, a matter of money-making; rather it is a service by which a man's country profits and all its citizens and all the peoples of the world. 
"This beautiful building, devoted to the study of Commerce, is, then, no temple to Mammon. A school that aims to serve elementary human needs cannot but subserve human destiny. Within these walls, young men are taught, and forever shall be taught, to put first things first in the order­ing of their life, whenever it shall be 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES AT DEDICATION 
Left to right: Alfred Shaw, superintendent of construction; John F. Gush­ing, Chicago; Miles W. O'Brien, South Bend; Edward N. Hurley, Chicago; C. 
C. Mitchell, Chicago; Rev. CItarles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.; Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago; 'A. R. Erskine, South Bend; Warren Cartier, Ludington, Mich., and Frank E. Hering, South Bend. 
British Priest Pays Tribute to Notre Dame 
lived and under whatever conditions. The poverty of things and the futility of setting one's heart upon them never in all history perhaps was plainer than it is today. That is a tremen­dous blessing for which this genera­tion of young men should never cease to be thankful. If ever delusions were without excuse, if ever vision was clariiied, if ever sound sense was in­escapable, it should be in this particu­lar hour which has bui-st our bubbles and shrunken our conceit and yet left us with confidence and courage to be­gin again, to- build anew and build better. 
"For that is the important thing and that is the real inner significance, it seems to me, of this dedicatory ceremony. We open a school of for­eign and domestic commerce at the precise moment in the world's history when both are at an intolerable and inexplicable standstill. Why? Be­cause we have faith, faith in the young man of today and tomorrow, faith in ourselves, faith in our country and in other countries, too; above all, faith in the watchfulness and abiding care of that benign Providence, the power of that prevailing hand which holds all our destinies in its gentle grasp, which steered the first ships breaking trade routes around the world, no less than it guided the philosopher or the scientist in his se­cluded study. There is to life a total­ity of aspect which exclusive atten­tion to details may blur. "To see life steadily and to see it whole" is one expression of the aim of education. I believe the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce in the University of Notre Dame will meet the challenge of that high re­quirement. 
"I cannot close these few and al­together inadequate remarks without a word of special appreciation to the architects of this building, the nation­ally famous firm of Graham, Ander­son, Probst and White, of Chicago. This building is on their part, too, a gift, for Mr. Graham, the moment he learned that Jlr. Hurley was making this benefaction to Notre Dame spon­taneously offered the free services of his firm to erect this building. We thank him and his associates, more particularly Mr. Alfred Shaw, who has been his devoted representative throughout. 
"Mr. Hurley, with a grateful heart, I accept your gift and in your name I present it to its real owners, these boys, the students of your College, and to all who shall come after them." 
With his customary modesty. Mi-. Hurley did not appear on the dedica­tory program, but gave a brief ad­dress to the faculty of the College following the ceremonies. 
The Rev. Joseph McAuIey, priest of the Archdiocese of Liverpool, England, was a re­cent visitor to Notre Daroe. He bad baen asked by friends in Chicajro to write them his im­pressions of the place. Thpoush their courtesy, we are able to reproduce a portion of Father McAuIey's letter, feelins it will be of interest to oar readers. 
"Dear Friends: 
"It is far too large an order to tell you what I think of Notre Dame, suffice it to say that I share with you a pride in its possession. I have passed through three stages in regard to it. First, the stage when I regard­ed it as a legitimate source of pride for every American Catholic, then the stage when it looms as a national institution and as such gives a back­ground to every American Catholic in the eyes of his fellows be they what they wish, and finally the stage when I see what it really is, simply some­thing ultra-national—a Universal or Catholic possession and I feel I have a right to share your pride in it as such, 
"Notre Dame is more than a mere collection of buildings, it is the Church in miniature, in the courage that built it, in the foresight that planned it, in the pioneer spirit that reckoned so little of the labour that started it. On the one hand its prow­ess in games, in its reaching out into the branches of knowledge and learning, its many-sided activities, in a word its worldly wisdom, its human­ity; on the other its seventeen hun­dred daily communicants, its church, its grotto, its spiritual spontaneity, the spiritual co-operation on the part of the students of humanities, in other words, its divinity coordinating with its humanity showing the world the" perfection of the spirit of the king­dom on earth, that is both human and divine, and how possible it is to blend them both and make each more admir­able by the charm and perfection of the blending. 
"I've seen the boys in church, I've seen them at the pictures, I've seen them al fresco at the shrine of Our Lady and at the tables in the dining hall. I know of their play and that it is no more brilliant, though it has brought their name ablaze before the public, than their performance at the altar rails. I see the magnificence of the library and in the shadow of it the humility of the little log chapel and neither out of place nor distinct from the other, and all this grown out of the little seedling of one man's thought and courage in 90 years in a country that is young and where the wealth and freedom of Catholics is younger still. And here it is today an Apostolate in itself equally in matters secular and religious, far truer in its work and ideals than pos­sibly it has been bold enough to claim for itself. 
"Frankly, I have seen a finer collec­tion of buildings, Oxford for example, but what connection is there between the Oxford that was bom of the cour­age of St. John Fisher and the gener­o.sity of Lady Margaret and the Ox­ford of today? At Notre Dame one feels the certainty of continuity like the Church itself (semper eadem) always the same, 
"There now you asked for it and you've got it—^with apologies. It is relatively long and relatively brief, long to read and too brief for its subject, but you requested it and as a little appreciation for your kindness, I've written quickly what I feel." 
Notre Dame, Ind., May 14, 1932. 

ANNUAL ADDRESS TO THE ALUMNI 
(Continued 'from Pace 210) 
Notre Dame was to be a great Uni­%-ersit5', Our Lady's school. It was to he open to Catholic and non-Catholic alike, for "Whenever she lias set up the pillars of her house, all men are at home." Try as we may to account for Notre Dame, if we leave out this important factor the secret forever escapes us. It is one spot on earth de­livered and signed over to the Mother of Christ, the Mother of all men. That is its power, its beauty, its joy, its in­definable appeal, recognized even by those who view it only briefly or see it but "through a glass darkly." 
Whatever may happen to other uni­versities othen%'ise, it is our credo that Notre Dame will endure forever. To the Judgment Day, please God, Notre Dame will hold her queenly head and, "when doom puffs out the stars," the last star that will fade and fall—:the last star of all—^will be the star that gleams on the forehead of Notre Dame. Our charter is there, scrolled across the heavens, signed with the great seal of the Apostle's vision,—A woman clothed with the sun. In that sign, Notre Dame, thou shalt conquer. 

June, 19S2 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 213 


The New Alumni Board Of The Ensuing Year, 1932-33 
New Group of Officers, Veterans in Activity, Join Continuing Officers To Guide Destinies of the Association in Critical Period. 
Honoraiy President — When the nominations of the Committees were announced, Very Rev. James W. Dona­hue, C.S.C, hurriedly informed the Alumni Office that his duties took him away fi-om the countiy so much that h e could not possibly consid­e r th e office. ^^ ^ Therefore th e f.^";/^^B Hev. John Cav­e^;i;^^0 anaugh, C.S.C, '90, was virtual­ly placed in office unani­mously. To eom­nEv. joiis cwAXAucu ment on Father 
Cavanuaugh's years of glorious administration, na­tion-wide popularity with alumni and friends of the University, is only to repeat here what has been repeatedly told in unnumbered pages of the di­verse publications of the world. 
President—Clarence "Pat" Manion is another alumnus who has been so prominent in Notre Dame life as to defy further information here. .A.fter a sparkling career as a student, Pat received his J.D. here in 1922. He soon returned to I the law school las a professor land between 'that popular vo­cation an d the complex field of Indiana politics, 
CLAHEXCE "rAT" 3IASI0X he has been in 
the local lime­
light continuously. At present writ­
ing, he is the keynote speaker at the 
Indiana State Democratic convention, 
June 21, and one of the party leaders 
in the State. Pat's activities as vice­
pi-esident of the Association bode only 
good for his administration as presi­
dent. 
First Vice-President — Tim Galvin, '16, Hammond, Indiana, was such a popular and widely known alumnus before the Editor started to school here that the announcement of Tim's election is a suificient volume to his innumerable friends. Formerly State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus, a prominent Republican leader in the Calumet District, he bids fair to make a most interesting lieutenant for the new President. The oratorical power of both President and Vice-President leaves the Editor in a fever of antici­pation for those occasions upon which we can launch our administrative talents on either membership or the world at large. 

Second Vice-President — James E. Sanford, '15, is one of the most con­structively aggressive members of the -Association and a student of its his­tory and its problems. That he should assume the new second \-ic6-presidency, which carries the particular charge of promoting the new system of Gover­nors, is most fortunate. Jim, the membership may rest assui-ed, not only can do it, but will do it—^well. 
Director ex officio—Frank H. Hayes, '14, returns to the Board for a year with the invaluable experience of his administration and his peculiar genius in the promotion of the Lining En­
dowment. 
T. Paul Mc-Gannon, '07, always an ac­tive and effi­cient x-epresen­tative of Notre Dame on the Eastern s e a ­board, has an­other year to 
T. i-AUL M'cvxxoN s 6 r V e in his 4-year term. 
John P. O'Connell, '13, one of the popular judges of the Chicago courts and active in alumni aifairs of that tropolis, has two more years to serve as Director. 
Robert E. Lynch, '03, Green Bay, Wis., former athlete, actor, singer, and holder of attendance prizes for Board Meetings to date, has three more years in the directorate. 
Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94, is the newly 
elected member of the Board who will 
ser\'e as Direc­
tor until 1936. 
Hugh's experi­
^ ence a s presi-
I dent of the No­
(tre Dame Club 
of New York, 
as former pres­
ident of the Na­
tional -Associa­
UVCII tion, his many 
A. O'lWXA-ELI. 
contacts wit h 
students, and his almost unparalleled 
acquaintance with men of Notre 
Dame, qualifies him for this director­
ship far beyond the average. 
Director for the Class of '32— -According to the new Constitution, the Class of 1932 on May 19 elected George A. Higgins, Chicago, to serve on the Board for the ensuing yeai\ George has had a great deal of val­uable campus experience. Besides his immediate contacts vrith the stu­dents, he was a member of the Stu­dents Activities Council and repre­sents Chicago, a center of activity of the younger alumni. 

Secretary-Treasurer — The new Constitution provides for the combin­ing of the offices of Secretary and and Treasurer this year. James E. Armsti'ong, '25, Secretary of the As­sociation since January, 1926, will continue in this new capacity. 
These are your officers. They strive only to represent you. When the in­evitable criticisms arise, you will fa­vor them and yourselves if you contact them directly. The same may be said for encouragement. 

Dr. Hoff Praises Hering 

The Rev. Dr. Norbert C. Hoif, LL.D., '29, president of Carroll Col­lege, Helena, Mont., in a Mother[s Day address at a banquet of the Di­ocesan Conference of Catholic Women at Yakima, Washington, thrilled the audience of more than 400 guests with his remarks. He paid tribute to Notre Dame and the alumnus who is responsible for Mothers' Day as fol­lows: 
"In our individual lives we can not tell our mothers too often how much we love them, how much under God we owe to them. In a corporate way, • however, a dedication, breathing the high seriousness of, let us say, a Lincoln's Gettyburg address, should characterize this new observance which could not but elicit a generous response from a nation's heart. It is only twenty-eight years ago that my good friend, Mr. Frank E. Hering, erstwhile instructor at Notre Dame, in English's theatre in Indianapolis, made the first speech of record advo­cating the national observance of Mothers' Day. I like to think that some of the inspiration came from "The Lady" whose statue surmounts the gilded dome, from the age-old custom of dedicating this bursting, beautiful buoyant spring month to our Blessed Mother by whose fiat the world saw a new springtime of exist­ence when it had grown sad and old. 
"The reason why this observance needs to be a dedication rather than a sentimentality is because this world is growing sad again. In place of the new spring it reverts to the old winter of paganism. There can be no doubt of a resurgent pa­ganism. ... " 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
By Professor William 


E. Farrel/ 




Owen D. Young at Home 
Former Dist. Attorney 'of Herkimer Co. 

The University and, especially, the Class of 1932, who are now enrolled among the Alumni, will recall pleas­antly and profitably the visit and the commencement address by Owen D. Young. This is written, however, with no intent to eulogize a great figure in international affairs and in the business and commercial life of our nation. Mr. Young's services in these fields are well known and form a permanent part of our history. Here, I wish only to add a modest appreciation of Mr. Young in a phase of his life not so well known, perhaps, but quite as interesting and signifi­cant. 
For a clear insight into the fine character of Mr. Young, one should spend a little time among his neigh­bors in, and near, the village of Van Hornesville, Herkimer county. New York. In this neighborhood Mr. Young was bom; here he spent his early life until he left for college; and here he still maintains his real home and resi­dence. Van Hornesville is situated just over the hills that form the southern border of the Mohawk valley almost at the Herkimer-Otsego county line. It is easily reached by excellent roads running south from the old Mohawk valley road, or almost di­rectly by the Cherry valley highway, if one chooses that route through cen­tral New York. The countryside here­about is a vantage point from which to enjoy some rare scenic beauty. Be­yond the neighboring hills to the south is the famed Otsego country; from the hill country to the north the wide stretch of the Mohawk valley extends to foothills rising tier on tier up to the Adirondacks. Van Hornesville itself lies in a peaceful, pastoral val­ley of its own, within about ten miles of Otsego lake, the "Glimmerglass" of Cooper's "Leatherstocking Tales." Cooperstown, the home of the novelist, is at the lower end of the lake. In this old Indian country, along the lake and through the forest trails. Cooper found the inspiration and the settings for his tales of well known characters like Deerslayer and Natty Bumppo. 
A short stay at Van Hornesville will acquaint one with the pleasant relations Mr. Young enjoys with his old friends and neighbors. There is no mistaking this true neighborly feeling; one notes no superficiality nor pretense about it. Many of the peo­ple knew "Owen" as a boy, and a man, long before he attained international or even national renown. They thought as kindly of him then, as now. To them he appears the same, and. 
in fact, is the same, as always—a man of common sense and of sound judg­ment; a pleasant, friendly, and honest neighbor. That is what counts with them. 
There are many visible evidences of the affection and the fine human attachment of this unspoiled success­ful man of affairs, for the boyhood home and for these sterling old friends. Any one of the neighbors will tell you quietly and pleasantly, and point out for you, some of the fine things Mr. Young has procured for, or has generously contributed directly to, the village—a school, a park, a lighting system, some com­fortable and pleasant homes, and, particularly, the cozy and attractive home for his mother who was a con­stant guide and an inspiration to him until her death a little over a: year ago. An unaffected, tender devotion to his parents, throughout their lives, must remain always with Mr. Young a happy and an inspiring memory. What impresses one most in the vil­lage or at the neighboring farm where Mr. Young was born and which he now owns, is the natural simplicity and the good taste seen in all improve­ments which he has directed. Prac­tical and attractive, everything is; nothing appears elaborate, or preten­tious. Buildings and equipment are pleasantly in harmony with their use and their surroundings. 
Mr. Young has the rare gift of in­stilling a spirit of ease and geniality as he mingles and visits with the folks at home. Matters of local in­terest concern him as well as business of the outside world. He joins the group at the central store to smoke and chat, and lends when needed a suggestion or a helping hand to a neighbor. This attachment for the old home and for these neighbors is no sudden play for publicity. It is a very real and sincere sentiment. He has always cherished the memories of old friends and places. He treasures the lessons and the sturdy virtues ac­quired in boyhood and in early youth. An inherited wisdom, nourished in these early surroundings, has given him deep insight into the elemental principles of the larger and more com­plex problems of later life. He has never let the lure of big business or of big cities detach him from the problems or the folks back home, nor rob him of the native good sense and the rugged honesty impressed upon him there. To him the problems of national, or international scope are essentially the same as the problems 
of the farm, or the village. Both re­quire for their solution clear I'zsion, straight thinking and intelligent un­derstanding. 
It is not difficult then, to understand why Owen Young should be admired by all who know him. His breadth of mind and his regard for others brings cheerful response from those about him. As a leader in world affairs he has impressed his associates with his fairness and his ability; in private life he has always kept in close and tender relationship with family and with friends. Neither a narrow prejudice, nor a selfish aloof­ness has put him out of touch with the human interests and aspirations of his fellowmen. No contact with the world has seared his wholesome senti­ments or spoiled a winsome personal­ity. In the serenity and calmness of his manner, and the frankness of his speech and countenance, one quickly senses his intelligent mind and his kindly nature. Here, indeed, is a man with heart and mind happily in unison. 
. Commerce Alumni Meet 
Sixty graduates of the College of Commerce were present for the lunch­eon in the Faculty Room of the Uni­versity Dining Halls, Saturday noon, June 4th. 
The luncheon was presided over by the Dean of the College of Commerce, Mr. James E. McCarthy, and as was particularly fitting, the principal speaker was Rev. John F. O'Hara, C. 
S. C, '13, first dean and founder of the College of Commerce. Father O'Hara's talk, of a timely and appro­priate nature, had to do with the Catholic concept of business practice and economic progress—a reiteration of the Pope Leo XIII Encyclical letter on the conditions of labor and, as us­ual. Father O'Hara's remarks were concise, pointed and inspiring. 
Other speakers, representative of various groups, were: J. A.. Haley, '27, Graduate Manager of Athletics at the University; Professor Gilbert Coty, '27, instructor in Spanish; John TuUy, '11 (Engineering) ; and Henry Newmark, '78, who told of the com­mercial course during his days at the University. 
Following the luncheon there was an informal inspection of the new Edward N. Hurley College of Com­merce building. 
It is hoped that the Commerce luncheon may become a fixed part of the commencement activities. 
June, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
LAETARE MEDAL PRESENTED TO DR. S. J. MAHER 
(Continued from Page 206) 
friends. Nevertheless, it must be plain to everybody, even to you my friends, that neither I nor anybody else can desen-e to be pointed out as the one person out of the twenty millions of the Catholic laity of America whose life or achievement has done most in the past year to honor God and coun­try. 
"I am only an ordinary doctor, who like so many other doctors and lay­men, has dreamed a dream that has not as yet come true. I feel like a man who tries to climb at night the forbidding face of a mountain never before successfully scaled, and who long before he reaches the summit, finds himself suddenly encompassed and dazzled by the piercing rays of a searchlight aimed at him by groups of his cheering friends on a nearby mountain side. At first affrighted, but soon comforted and encouraged, he resolved to press on and on with more and more assurance in his am­bitious effort, impelled now with the hope of justifying the confidence of his friends. 
"Don't mistake me. I am not Uriah Heep. I am not humble; I am proud. Especially today am I proud and vain, but I know, and you know, that many thousands of Catholic men and women who in poverty and anxiety are reso­lutely and cheerfully bearing burdens of unemployment and of sickness and of the failure of their banks must be in the eyes of God Almighty, much more deserving than I, of the Laetare Medal. The injunction to me and to you by the Laetare Medal, is as the name implies, to rejoice. 
"It goes, I hope, even without my saying so, that I am grateful to them and to their Excellencies Bishop Nilan and Governor Cross and to Eev. Mother Stephanie, the head of the Dominican Sisters, who has corae from Columbus to attend today's cele­bration and to His Honor, John W. Murphy, the distinguished Mayor of our city, and to the honored represen­tative of Notre Dame University who has traveled so many tiresome miles to do us honor todav, and to the religious and civic dignitaries, many of other faiths than mine, who have honored us with their presence here today. 
"And you my personal and profes­sional and family friends; and all you soldiers and officers of our anti-tuber­culosis army and all within the range of my voice, how can I ever sufficient­ly thank you for all your display of affection and loyalty to the dreamy old doctor to whom Notre Dame has seen fit to award the Laetare Medal, and who, because of your encourage­ment and that of Notre Dame, now feels more and more confident that we of Connecticut's anti-tuberculosis ar­my will soon be able to greet the sunrise from the very top of the Tu­berculosis Mountain, and able in that victorious day of ours to trumpet across the western hills and over their rivered valleys to our sympathetic friends in Notre Dame. Laetare! Laetare!" 
A unique feature of the exercises was the singing of a poem "America Our Own" composed by Dr. Maher in 1918 as the conclusion of a novelette entitled: "The Sister of a Certain Soldier" which was published locally. The music was writetn by H. Merrills Lewis of the Yale School of Music. 
Governor Wilbur L. Cross was the final speaker. He congratulated Dr. Maher on the great honor bestowed upon him by the University of Notre Dame, and praised him for the great deeds he had accomplished as a mem­ber of the State Tuberculosis Com­mission. 
He said that the State was indebted to Dr. Maher for the wonderful sana­torium for children at Niantic. This institution, he said, is probably one of the best in the United States and it was largely through Dr. Maher's un­tiring efforts that it attained such a high standing. 
Governor Cross also spoke of the proposed new sanatorium for children at New London, plans for which were recently approved by the State. This new institution will climax another of Dr. Maher's campaigns to aid the tu­bercular in this State, the Governor said. 
He also spoke of Dr. Maher's ap­pearance before the last session of the Legislature in which he made an ap­peal for an increase in the number of beds in the State sanatoria. The request was granted, and Governor Cross said that Dr. Maher was the only man that he knew that ever ap­peared before a legislative body and got what he wanted. 
Governor Cross also paid high trib­ute to the Catholic Church, whose men he said had contributed so much toward the advancement of science, medicine and other professions. He said that the church should be proud of Dr. Maher, a man who has done more in his particular branch of med­icine than any other man in modem times. 
In concluding, Governor Cross con­gratulated Dr. Maher in behalf of the State. 
 Tie For Aj»»m GOU T«pfcy 
Lawrence MoUer, captain of the 1931 University Golf Team, Qoincy, III., and Edward A. O'Ualley, '32, Dixon, HI., tied for honors in the first Annual Alumni Golf Tonmament for the Association's trophy. As a result, their names are engraved jointly on the handsome new cup, which will re­main in the University Coarse club house unless permanently annexed by three victories for an individual. A tie, such as this year's outcome, gives each of the tying contestants a leg toward possession. 
Molar's card for the 36 holes, medal play, was: 
54444245 5—37 43354254 5—35_72 44545345 4—38 53454453 5—38_76 
148 O'Malley's card was: 
44544344 4—36 54334364 4—36_72 5445'5344 5—39 54345353 5—37_76 
148 

Four hundred and fourteen (414) persons enjoyed the facilities of the beautiful William J. Burke - Univers­ity 18-hole course during the Friday, Saturday and Sunday of Commence­ment, despite the heavy programs elsewhere. The course, under the able supervision of the golfing Prefect of Discipline, Rev. Raymond Murch, C. S. C, '23, has undergone many construc­tive improvements and its heavy play by the students this spring was a tribute to the quality of these changes. The course was free to Commence­ment golfers. For students during the school year there is a ten-cents-a-day greens fee, and during the summer the South Bend male population is eligi­ble at fifty cents for a day's play. The greens are in excellent condition and as fast as finances permit, Father Murch is installing those mysterious features (to a non-golfer such as the Editor) which make a course dear to those who tramp it. 
The auspicious beginning of the An­nual Alumni Tonmament adds an­other drawing card to a bill already teeming each year w^ith features. 
THE NOTKE DAME AHJMNTJS Jiine, 1932 
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS, By Owen D. Young 
well to abandon all. Just because we have run off the high road into a morass does not mean that I suggest that it is your job when the car is out of the mud to start off through the fields in untried ways. No—I think you should put the car back on the road, repair the steering gear, correct the sprung axles, realign the treads, and continue down the main road with courage, but with care. For, after all, I thinK the appraisal of my time will be not that we did too little, but that we tried to do too much. In the politi­cal, social and economic field we un­dertook larger obligations on shorter maturities than we could meet. And so we are in the unfortunate position of seeking a standstill, not as a basis of repudiation, but as an opportunity for fulfillment. 
I have spoken of our objectives. If our government budgets are threat­ened—and they are—it is in some large degree due to increased charges for educational, health, and social betterment. Many will say we have acted improvidently in these fields, but even so, and if at the worst we have to curtail them (which I hope we shall not), it is a standing testimonial to the purpose and intent and ambi­tion or organized society in my time to improve itself. While we have accomplished much, yet it is small in comparison with what remains to be done. Impatient people will criticize our failure to do more. They will under-estimate our accomplishment as they always do. The fact is, how­ever, that in the social field we have moved forward faster in the last ten years than our economic organization could provide the means. One may criticize the judgment of a person who goes broke in social service, but certainly his spirit remains untouched. 
Dr. Jacks, an eminent English scholar, gave to me a few days ago a formula by which to test our reaction. It will serve equally an indi\'idual or a nation. It will test the work of a day or a generation. And so I repeat it here. To meet all requirements every effoi't must be, he said: 
1—Idealistic in purpose. 
2—Executed by business methods. 
3—In the spirit of sportsmanship. 
I bring that test to j'ou as a guide for the future and commend its use in testing your actions. If it is to be your guide, it also must be my judge. What will the appraisal of my time be? You will know and I will not. I suspect that we shall receive credit for the first; be criticized as careless and unwise in the second; and be con­sidered as untrained in and unappre­ciative of the great power of the third. You will not be content to do no bet­ter. You will hold fast to idealistic purposes; you will improve our meth­ods; you will practice sportsmanship. 
(Continued on Page 217) (Continued from Pape 196) 

tory of this period shall have bean written, in your time, but not in mine, you may find that our efforts at re­tardation and relief were unwise. You undoubtedly will find that even though the principle was sound that many of the steps taken to cari-y out the principle were unsound. Failure of execution, however, will not dis­credit our purpose. Your generation mil do better. Disciplined at the be­ginning, called upon to show your mettle at the start, you will avoid many of the pitfalls into which we have fallen. 
So do not be misled either by the state of mind of my generation or by what we say. We said extravagantly optimistic things iive years ago. We say extravagantly pessimistic things today. Somewhere you must strike the balance to find the truth. But as the world must go forward, I advise you to resolve the doubt against what we say now and in favor of the best things we used to say. For example, people will tell you now that our liv­ing standards were too high and that we could not hope to maintain them. Well, I would not believe that if I were you. I hope you will say that the living standards were not too high —indeed they were not high enough— and that you intend to see to it in your time that the masses of the peo­ple of this country not only reach but maintain a higher standard of living for themselves than we had at the height of the last period of our pros­perity. It was not our standards of living which were at fault. The trou­ble was we could not stand prosperity. Not satisfied with the daily earnings of our labor, we undertook to gain more by speculation until literally millions of our people regarded their legitimate income from honest jobs as too small to measure their mode of life and went on the general picnic of throwing ticker-tape into the air. And they 
"called the name thereof Manna; and it was like the coriander seed, white; and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey." 
The fact is that we no longer sought high living standards from honest la­bor, but extravagances from dishonest gains. This superimposed on an un­balanced economic base started our avalanche. Let no one confuse you. Stand by high living standards from honest and productive labor and set your face firmly against extravagance from dishonest an d unproductive gains. 
Not only did the individual become careless of his expenditures, but he permitted and even encouraged his 
government to become careless of its 
expenditures. The question no longer 
was whether a man or a government 
could pay its debts. It was whether 
or not his current income was suifi­
cient to pay interest on his debts. The 
point I wish to make is that not only 
did the disciplinary morale of the in­
dividual in prosperity break down, but 
that of our political and economic in­
stitutions did so too. They all became 
careless about the relationship of com­
pensation to honest service. So it will 
not be enough for you young gentle­
men to look after your own affairs by 
self-discipline. Y'ou will have to 'ex­
tend those restraints to your govern­
ment, to the concern which you admin­
ister, and to the entire economic or­
ganization of the nation. That does 
not mean that you will lower the 
standards of liring. It only means that you will prevent false standards and so escape the ultimate ruin which such standards inevitably impose. And so I say again, do not take too seriously what we say now. Do not permit yourselves to be embittered by our disappointments. Do not permit your confidence to be impaired by our sus­picions. Do not permit your judg­ments to be controlled by our inferi­ority complexes. We are paying the penalty of our own mistakes. You, with clear heads and sound hearts, if you will keep them so, can profit by those mistakes. 
May I warn you against one thing more in entering on the serious busi­ness which you are about to under­take. Beware of slogans, catch phras­es, and generalities which are so prodigally scattered about with sol­emn manner and in unctuous phrase. In times less critical, we could accept sweeping words as the indicator of an attitude of mind and trust that by and large definitive progress cor­responding to the state of mind would be adopted. From such genera! state­ments men were said to be conserva­tive or liberal. Now I think we must require more. Precise and definitive statements of a policy or program must supersede ambiguous declara­tions and clever wise-cracks. Your science and mathematics has at least taught you that your symbols must have precise definition and that they must be used with the greatest integ­rity, not alone lest you mislead others, but as insurance against misleading yourself. So I suggest that you start out in this important year of 1932 by demanding clear and unambiguous statements from all who ask your support to their leadership, whether it be in the political, in the economic, or in the social field. 
I must not permit you to leave this place today with the impression that no advances have been made in my time, and, therefore, that you will do 

June, 1932 THK NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 



THE BACCALAUREATE SERMON 
(Continued from PaRe 204) 

charistic Heart of Jesus for the alle­viation of human misery. 
How have the mighty fallen? Not since the confusion of the Tower of Babel, has such calamity come on the human race. Men prided themselves on their pentration and control of the secrets of nature. Invention upon in­vention was developed. The earth was plumbed and the sea charted and the very air was traversed and man boast­ed in his mastery of everything and said in his heart with the fqpl "There is no God" but man. And lo and be­hold! While God did his part with unusual graciousness; while crops multiplied beyond harvesting, the earth bearing its fruits in over-abun­dance; while famine and plague and parching were wanting in the land; while nature lavished itself in the care and comfort of man, the whole economic and industrial contrivance of man collapses in cataclysm and millions suffer from hunger and want in the midst of abundance! Why! Because the economic and industrial and social and mechanical man-made machine has been fallen apart. Neces­sity is no longer the mother of inven­tion, but invention has become the mother of want. 
1 have seen industrialism multiply­ing in cell-growth like a great cancer and like that malignant thing, break­ing down in putrefaction and destroy­ing all about it. 
Only the other day in one of our diocesan cities I saw an example of the industrial tragedies of the time. One room, one of the world's largest single rooms, 1000 ft. long by 300 ft. wide, another room beside it, 500 ft. long by 200 ft. wide, like hay fields in harvest time, piled high with great mounds of junked machinery, not antiquated and out-of-date machinery, but modem automatic, electrically driven machinery, all' junked, while thousands of operatives walked the streets in beggary. Man, who had boasted that he had out-mastered His Maker,—man and machinery junked alike together. 
To bring order out of the prevail­ing chaos, we do not need any new code of morality. God has given us our moral code in the Decalogue and it is unchangeable and all sufficient. 
•What we need in morality is a return t<3 the divine standards of right and wrong. 
Will you graduates of 1932 throw your service, with Catholic Action, into the struggle to lead men back to God and the things of God, or will you swim with the tide, into the whirlpool of wrecked materialism? 
To bring order of chaos, we do not 
need any new form of government. The founders of this nation gave us a form of government, satisfying every human civic need! What we want in government is good citizen­ship, disinterested, unselfish, un­corrupted citizenship, hard to get to­day, as conspicuously shown by Cath­olic and non-Catholic, by Christian and Pagan alike! No! We do not need a new morality; we do not need a new form of government! But what we do need, and what must be fashioned, is a new economic and in­dustrial mechanism. It is patent that the old order is out and that in groan­ings and laborings, a new industrial and economic order is in the homing. What it shall or should be no one seems to know. What leaders will rescue humanity from beneath the junk-pile of WTecked industrialism, God only knows. 
But one thing is sure: The mind that conceives the plan of our indus­trial restoration must be inspired, the heart that spends itself for brotherly help must be propulsed, the arms that lift us up and send us on our way must be sinewed with love and justice for and towards one another and such virtues come to man only from God. Our Holy Father in inspired words has so well said it: 
In place of moral laws which dis­appear together with the loss of faith in God, brute force is imposed trampling on every right. The old-time fidelity and honesty of conduct and mutual intercourse extolled so much even by the orators and poets of paganism now give place to specula­tions in one's own affairs as in those of others without reference to con­science. 
In fact, how can any contract be maintained and what value can any treaty have in which every guarantee of conscience is lacking? And how-can there be talk of guarantees of conscience when all faith in God and all fear of God has vanished? 
Take away this basis and with it all moral law falls and there is no remedy left to stop the gradual but inevitable destruction of peoples, families, the State-civilization itself. 
This, then, the voice of the church, ringing in your every faculty as you close your University days: "There is no stable salvaging of society from its present chaos and confusion save through God: that God must be in all true education, public and private; that God, evidencing Himself in con­science, should be in the life of every citizen,—^upholding honesty and con­demning dishonesty, upholding integ­grity and condemning corruption, whether in private home or public office; upholding justice and suppress­ing* injustice; a conscience indicative of the love of God and the love of neighbor, producing fruits for God in the things of God and for the state in the things of Caesar." 
Go forth, then Sons of Notre Dame, Graduates of 1932. God and the things of God Eave been taught yon in these hallowed halls. Be you worthy of your Alma Mater, be you worthy of Our Lady, who sang in exultation of spirit: "My soul doth magnify the Lord and my spirit doth rejoice in God, my Saviour." 
With all your opportunities and equipment and training you should be leaders in God's battallions, in Our Lady's legions. Around you should rally, for help and guidance, those less blessed and favored. Days of sunshine, days of darkness; nights of brightness, nights of blackness con­front you in the future. Let God be your strength, let Mary be your guide. Wherever you journey, where-ever you dwell may He who has said: "I and the Father am One" Christ-Christ crucified be glorified in your lives,—and may you carry, lifted high up unto the end, unto the throne of God, unto the feet of Mary, unstained, unblemished and unlowered the blue and gold of Notre Dame. 

COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS, By Owen D. Young 
(Continued from Pago 216) 
That courage, that magnanimity, and that unfaltering devotion which is em­braced in its spirit is what the world most needs. I speak of it here and in these halls with confidence and with pride. Here the spirit of sportsman­ship was personified. Here even death can not destroy it. 
And so I hope, young gentlemen, that you will not be paralyzed by the awful spectacle of the avalanche or be discouraged by the discipline which its devastation will impose. While most of you will undertake specialized 
occupations, I trust a few will emerge for general leadership. I hope you may not be oppressed by our despair or misled by our slogans. -\nd may I ask that you apply the test to your every action. Is it idealistic in pur­pose? Will it be executed orderly and thoroughly? Will it all be done in the spirit of sportsmanship and with the high moral standards which that nec­essarily implies? If you ^oill, then when you reach my age, even though not today, you may think my trustee­ship of your time was not entirely in default. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
Q(n ..Q 
AKRON 
A letter from Glenn Smith, former secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Akron, gives us a belated report on the Club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Glenn is the newly elected president of the Club, having been voted to that exalted position on Universal Notre Dame night, when the group met for the annual banquet and election of officers. 
This year the affair was held in the Breathnach Country club. Judge Stephen Colopy and Dean Fred Ayer of the engineering college of Akron university, were the principal speak­ers. Short talks were given by Thomas 
F. O'Neil, Walter Miller (one of the famous Miller brothers), and Joseph Wozniak. Attorney Stephen Wozniak presided as toastmaster. Thirty alum­ni and students attended. 
Other officers named are: Harold Bair, '29, vice-president; C. J. Mc-Guckin, '28, secretary, and T. N. Ley, '26, treasurer. 
Glenn is publicity manager of the First-Central Trust Co., and accord­ing to the records has quite a crowd of fellow Notre Dame men in the same building. Among those men­tioned are: Joe Kraker, '29, and Chick McGuckin, also with the Trust Com­pany; Ted Ley, '26, with Livingston & Company, brokers, and the two Wozniak's (Steve, '28 and Joe, '29) practicing law. The Akron group should be able to call a special meet­ing at a moments' notice. 
CHICAGO 
The members of the Chicago Club have fully recovered from Commence­ment we hope. A goodly crowd was here from the Windy City the same old standbyers with a few new ones in tow. 
We note, from the edition of Quad-Wrangles Junior, that two or more Golf Tournaments will be held during the Summer months for the members of the Club. Another Golf and Danc­ing Party (which was so popular last year) will be given later in the Sum­mer. Full announcements of these events will be published within the next few weeks. 
The Club luncheons are still being held at Mandel's in the Ivory Boom, every Friday from 12 to 2. Members of the Club and visiting alumni are cordially invited to attend. According to the Secretary, "The committee hopes that all Notre Dame men still 



ALUMNI GLUBS 
eat once a day, so why not do it with the gang when you are in the Loop on Fish Day. There are 50cts. and 65cts. lunches as well as 'a la carte' service if you have a thin purse or a weak stomach. The food is good, the portions are generous, the menu is comprehensive, and the waitresses are easy on the optic nerves.____Would you like to know who will be the mas­cot for the Varsity next Fall? Who the Democrats are going to nominate for President, or listen to a solution of the tax situation, or hear about the only man who ever beat George Gipp at billiards, or learn what test the great Eichenlaub had for fresh­men who thought they were in love? You can get the answers and 57 diff­erent cures for the depression besides at the weekly luncheons of the club 
Incidentally, Quad-Wrangles Junior is taking the place of the famous Quad-Wrangles with which Notre Dame men in this vicinity have be­come familiar. Quad-Wrangles Junior is pinch-hitting for the regular Club paper until the just-around-the-cor­ner-prosperity catches up with the world, and, if the Editor's opinion is worth anything, is doing a right smart job of it, too. 
CLEVELAND 
Dear Jim: 
This is Station C-L-E-V-E-L-A-N-D —the Home of the Notre Dame-Navy games hereafter. 
Meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland was held last week. New business consisted of electing new offi­cers for this year: President, Thomas Byrne, '28; Vice-President, Charles Rohr, '30; Treasurer, Louis Stettler, '30; Secretary, Clayton G. Leroux, '27. 
A big hand and a rising vote of appreciation was extended to the out­going officers—President John Butler, Vice-President Thomas Byrne, Treas­urer Matt Trudell, and Secretary Geo. Kerver—^for the very successful year just passed, one of the best in the Club's history. 
Had an exceptionally good turn-out including our illustrious and indus­trious mayor, Hon. Ray T. Miller, '14; our Chaplain, Rev. M. L. Moriarty, and his guest. Rev. Patterson from Rocky River, Ohio; also our oldest alumnus, Henry Newmark, '78. Un­fortunately, Billy O'Neill's stag din­ner was set for the same night so we missed about a dozen of the old guard. 
Another prominent social evett 
..ti 

booked for the near future is the wed­ding of Miss Gertrude Little of Cleve­land, Ohio, and Jack Sonnhalter, '28. Marriage will take place on June 25th at St. Philomene's Church in East Cleveland, Ohio. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Kaiser, '28, have returned from their honeymoon spent touring Florida—^\vho says de­pression? Mrs. Kaiser was formerly Miss Martha Cook of Lakewood, Ohio. The ceremony, quite simple but very beautiful, was performed at the Par­medale Chapel. The bride—weW, my hat is off to Chuck. By the way, Gene Milliff, '29, was one of the ushers— and did he strut, the old such-and­such. 
Prayers, condolence, and what-have­you are requested by Pierce J. O'Con­nor, '28, and Chuck Kaiser, who are among those facing the Ohio Bar this June. Understand that John Viktoryn of '28 is leading his class at Medical School at Reserve, and if you don't think that is something . 
Mr. and Mrs. George Thomas have built a beautiful little home out in Willoughby, Ohio. George has seen plenty of the country since he left N. 
D. in 1928. Mrs. Thomas hails from Denver, Colo. Junior is working hard preparing for a berth on the '50 team. 
Plans for a dinner and golf tourna­ment to be held at Wooster, Ohio, in June have been completed by Chaplain Father Moriarty. The annual pil­grimage is sponsored for students of Notre Dame and the alumni. 
Will try and see you at the Class Reunion. Expect to drive up with Jim McFarlane, '27, if I can get as far as Detroit. Till then, 
CLAYTON G. XJKOUX, '27. 

INDIANAPOLIS Dear Jim: 
Our club here in Indianapolis cele­brated Universal Notre Dame Night by having a dinner at the Hoosier Athletic Club. The attendance was fine, as there were about forty-five present. During the meal music was provided, and after a few words by some of those attending, there were two three-round boxing matches put on by some local boys. The entertain­ment for the whole evening was splen­did, and the committee composed of Al Feeney and Joe McNamara re­ceived the appreciation of every one present. 
There were many-fellows present that we don't see so often, but hope to have around more in the future. 
June, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Our officers for the following year were elected and are: President, Bob Kirby, '29; Vice-President, Walt Houppert, '25; Secretary, John Rocap, '30; and Treasurer, Tom Jones, '04. 
We are going to continue our monthly meetings, but instead of hav­ing just luncheons we plan to alter­nate, having a dinner eveiy other month. 
From the reports going ai'ound I hear that the fellows are getting the golf sticks out and doing some prac­ticing for the annual golf tournament which will be held probably in the early part of July. 
Joe McNaraara is resting after a strenuous month or so working on the recent primary held here, and also after having sei-ved two years as President of the Club. 
Bill Krieg was in town a couple weeks ago for a few days, being home from Harvard from where Bill will graduate in a short time. 
Bill Mooney, Fred Mahaffey, Bill Fo.\, Mike Duffecy, Bill O'Connor, Mike Eeddington are some of the fel­lows that we frequently see at the meetings. 
There are quite a few fellows work­ing at the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. here, including the Konop brothers, Carl Feske, Bob Gavin, John Mahoney and others. 
Not much more news at the present, but will write when I have some. 
JOHN ROCAP. 
KANSAS 

A note from Norb Skelley, from Salina, Kansas, informs us that he is still with the United States Radiator Corp., in Kansas and Oklahoma, and "doing a fairly nice business," quoting Norb. Norb says further that he sees Al Gebert, president of the Kansas Club, who is doing a nice job at Wichita University. "Moon" Mullins shows up occasionally, too, according to our scribe. Norb tells us that two more local boys are coming to Notre Dame and the following year there will be at least three more to start. More power! 
iHLWAUKEE 

The Milwaukee Club, according to a recent announcement, expects to continue their regular monthly meet­ings during the summer. These meet­ings, for the benefit of visiting alumni, are to be held the second week of each month. For information get in touch with President Bill Redden, 3525 W. North Ave., Milwaukee, or A. P. Gal­dabini, 1521 W. Kilbourn Ave., secre­tary of the Club. 
NEW JERSEY The New Jersey crowd keeps up the pace. A letter from President Bill Carter gives us the lineup for next year's officers to be installed in Sep­tember. They are: Russell Riley, '28, president; Robert Phelan, '22, vice-president; Edward Broderick, '27, treasurer; and Joseph Nulty, '27, sec­retary. 
NEW YORK 

A dinner at the Hotel McAlpin in honor of the New York boys who were graduated with the Class of '32 was scheduled for June IG, according to secretary "Doc" Gelson. At this time the '32 fellows from the Metropolitan area were to be welcomed and invited to become active members in the Club. 
A letter from Oliver Schell, '29, 
contains some news of the boys in the 
East. He says: "John McMahon, '28, 
showed us how to do it by accepting a 
new position that takes him to Pitts­
burgh with Associated Press. Dick 
Donoghue is in New York now with 
Metro-Goldwyn Mayer Co. Bill Mur­
phy, '22, former secretary of the New-
York Club came from Jersey to meet 
old friends at the Annual Notre Dame 
Night dinner at the McAlpin. 
"Joe Cannon, Jim Conmey, Gerry 
Cuddihy, Larry CuUiney, Walt Layne, 
Jerry Parker, and Zeno Staudt all 
live in my neighborhood as does Ber­
nie Garber. With such a lineup we 
are able to have quite a session when 
time hangs heavy. 
I'd like to come out West, but prob­
ably will not this year." 
OREGON 

"The annual meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Oregon was held at the Univei'sity Club, Portland, April 18, President M. A. Conway presided. Father Kelly was called upon to read a letter by Father Charles O'Donnell in answer to Boyd Carpenter's article on "How a Briton Looks at American Education." It was decided to have copies of this letter made and sent to each of the members of the organiza­tion. Father Carey was called upon to discuss plans for a Notre Dame Alumni Retreat, suggested to be held at Columbia University, August 12th to the 15th. Each member introduced himself, telling the years he spent at Notre Dame and recalling some inci­dent of interest that happened while he was there. The following officers were elected: General J. P. O'Neil, '83, president; L. B. Macnab, '24, secre­tary, and RoUand Sullivan, '30, treas­
urer. Plans for activities of the organiza­tion for the coming year were dis­cussed. 
As the meeting broke up the presi­dent suggested that any amoont from 10c to 50c be pat in the plate to be used as a "slush fund" for future meetings. Six dollars and forty-three cents was found in the plate. It was further suggested that any time a member found any amount in his pocket, from 10c to $1.00 surplus, that he put it in an envelope addressed to the treasurer of the Club." 
Additional information regarding the prospective retreat: The very Rev. Louis Kelley, C.S.C, STD., President of Columbia University, has consented to conduct the Retreat for Notre Dame men only. During the retreat those present will have the privilege of hearing a talk by the Most Rever­end Edward D. Howard, D.D., Arch­bishop of Portland, Ore. 
TIFFIN 

Dear Jim: 
This is somewhat of a belated re­port concerning our activities on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, but I assure you that it is none the less authentic. 
Responding to the Tiffin Club's in­vitation to be present for a stag din­ner on that night of nights, were sev­eral out-of-town N. D. men who agreed with us in the suggestion of an inter­city Notre Dame Club. At present all of these neighboring cities are too small to support a club of their own and we are now forming plans for the organization of some sort of an inter-city N. D. clan. How far we will get in our ideas is still a question but we will have a working knowledge of our plans and suggestions late in the summer some time as that is to be the approximate date for our next meeting. Our meager group certainly doesn't warrant a gathering before that time. 
Our little dinner on the 18th, as usual, was just another occasion to swap yams of the "old days" and really, Jim, it seemed just another "session" so characteristic of any of the old halls. The chief topic of con­versation, I believe, had to do with the new Rockne MemoriaL Speaking of the Fund, did you receive the Tiffin contribution? 
Here, Jim, is something that de­serves special consideration and I wish that you would render some sort of an opinion regarding it. Paul Lanter­milch, '24, member of the local Club, suggested that a petition be made and submitted to the Alumni Board for the designation of a "Rockne Sunday." On this day, the first Sunday in April of each year, members of the Alumni throughout the country should receive Holy Communion in a body, according to local organizations, for the repose of the soul of Rock. This thought may not be a new one to yon and the 
220 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS June, 1932 
Board, but it was held as being orig­


EIGHTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT 
inal with us and we would like to pre­sent it as being direct from the Tiffin (Continued from Page 202) 
N. D. Club." 
The Editor bows his head in shame 
at the thought of having neglected to 
acknowledge the Tiffin Club's actirity 
and suggestions. Certainly no one is 
more interested in the growing clubs 
than he, but after President Fred 
Wagner found him almost completely 
buried beneath a pile of unanswered 
correspondence, we hope that he will 
understand. During the last month 
nothing could pry a letter from this 
Office. Now that Commencement is 
another memory we have hopes of 
catching up on letter-writing. 
• TOLEDO 
A letter from Hay Tillman reports 
the following: 
"We had a very large and interest­
ing meeting on Tuesday evening, May 
3, in the Knights of Columbus build­
ing. In fact, we recorded the largest 
turnout for some years. It was, of 
course, election night and here are the 
results: John Q. Carey, '27, president; 
Frank Sloan, '29, \'ice-president; Fred 
A. Sprenger, '27, secretary; Norbert 
M. Scharf, '30, treasurer; John Hur­ley, Jr., '25, trustee. 
The new regime promises a very active and interesting year. Plans are being formulated to bring the Toledo men together often during the year. 
An interesting issue concerning two of our members is that in the primary election last week, John Carey, '27, and Ben Kesting, '25, made a wonder­

•ful showing in their campaigns for Ohio State Representative and County Surveyor respectively. In fact, both so far outclassed their party oppon­ents tliat there was no doubt of their popularity. The Toledo Club endorses both men and is doing everj'thing to assist them for the finals. Cyril Don­nelly, a brother of Edwin Donnelly of the Class of '20, made an excellent showing for the office of County Pros­ecutor. All won out over many popu­lar candidates." 
WHEELING, W. VA. Alumni of the Wheeling district gathered en masse on April 18 with their wives and guests to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner dance. Mixing business wit h pleasure, members of the g/oup elected officers for the ensuing year. As successor to 
W. N. Hogan, Thomas J. Howley was chosen president ^\-ith Ralph N. Jor­dan as vice-president. George J. Sar­gus was re-elected secretary-treasurer. 
Under'the regime of Bill Hogan, the body has weathered its first year of existence as an officially recognized group in a splendid fashion. To him, especially, goes most of the credit for the successful ventures entered into 

The Supreme Grand Knight, in re­sponding, described most interestingly to the guests his visit to Rome and his audience ^vith the Holy Father, out­lining the appreciation expressed for the work of the Knights of Columbus and the need for the continuation and expansion of this activity. 
In the East Dining Hall, at the same hour, some sixty monogram men met for the annual luncheon. Headed by Jesse Harper and Hunk Anderson, the luncheon was the usual pleasant period of reminiscing, recalling those stirring periods that have made Notre Dame history, from Lou Salmon through Red Miller, Eichenlaub, Gipp, the Four Hoi-semen to the present bright prospects, with serious discus­sion of the problems and reforms now being instituted by colleges and com­mittees. 
At 4 o'clock the final academic pro­cession wended its way to the great gymnasium where a capacity crowd was gathered for the climax of the Eighty-Eighth Annual Commence­ment. 
Honorary degrees were presented to the Hon. Owen D. Young, Com­mencement orator, the Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, D.D., Martin Car­mody, and Sergius P. Grace, the offi­cial citations for which appear with the picture of the recipients on an­other page. The Deans of the Col­leges then awarded the individual diplomas. 
The President of the University, Rev. Charles L. O'Donriell, C.S.C, announced the award of the five hun­dred dollar ($500) prize from the Lay Faculty Foundation of tht Alumni Association to Prof. Joseph J. Casa­santa, B. Mus. '23, head of the de­partment of music and director of the University Band and Glee Club. The popularity of the award was evident from the storm of applause which greeted the announcement. To'alum­ni, it is merely tautology to say that 
by the Club in conjunction with the the undergraduate group of the city. Through his untiring efforts, the pres­ent undergraduates of the University have been feted at numerous social functions during the summer, Christ­mas and Easter holidays. 
At present plans are being prepared to banquet embryo-alumni at an affair to be given early in Juna 
"Scholastic" Leads Nation 

The Notre Dame SCHOIASTIC was judged the best college weekly in America in May in a nation-wide contest sponsored by the North Caro­lina Daily Tar Heel. 
Word of THE SCHOLASTIC'S success the achievements of the youthful head of the musical organizations at Notre Dame have been outstanding during a decade when all achieve­ments of the University have set a pace that older men than he might have faltered in following. 

Following this award the President introduced the Hon. Owen D. Young in the following words: 
"I .have the privilege of presenting to this audience as our Commence­ment Speaker one of America's most illustrious citizens. His titles to dis­tinction have already been set forth in the official statement which accom­panied the University's award to him of the honorary degree. Doctor of Laws, We have all grown accustomed to the hyperbole of introductions. Happily, in the present instance there is no excuse or warrant for that. I shall content myself, therefore, with an expression of our thanks to one who though busy in private and pub­lic aflfairs on which the destinies of whole peoples turn, nevertheless makes times to come to us to deliver at Notre Dame the one address which he will give this year. Through this gracious action of his, we have gained a fresh insight into the quality of his greatness. In a special way, I felic­tate the Class of 1932 as I present to them their commencement orator, now their honorary classmate, Dr. Owen D. Young." 
And so, most auspiciously, ended the Eighty-Eighth Annual Commence­ment of the University of Notre Dame. Father Sorin, gifted with al­most prophetic vision, could hardly have seen more. And AIe.xis Coquil­lard, '03, who attended this Com­mencement program must have felt a glow of pride as he remembered that earlier Alexis Coquillard, the first man to entrust his academic des­tinies to the small and impoverished Notre Dame du Lac. 
reached the publications office June 3. 
Sixteen papers were placed in the first class, with THE SCHOLASTIC, lead­ing the field. All were judged on a point system involving heads, news content, style, make-up, editorials, sports, features, and columns. 
-Almost one hundred college news­papers were graded, and included ev­ery important and major weekly in the country. 
Other universities w h o received honors in the Class A ranking are the University of Pittsburgh, the Uni­versity of Utah, Denver, Boston, Tu­lane, Duke, and Tennessee. 
Jxme, 193S THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
pl'in'imiitiiitnitmitiimiinntniMiitiimmiiiitiiimimtumiiiniiiiiimiiiiiiiinniiniiii • 11 IMIIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllDltlllll IIKIII 



^THE ALUMNI: 
QlttllllllllllllllllllllllMIIUMIIIIItllllliailtlllDIHIiHIII IIIIIIIIIMIIII lltlllltlllltllll||||||||lniMIIIIIIMIUIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllttlllllinilllllM«ttllllllinntlllMIIIMIIIMIIIMIIIMlMIMIMIMMIimiMimmMlp| 
1876 

Following are some very interesting excerpts from a feature article in the Worcester (Mass.) re/e£rra»i of recent date: 
Juvenile crime is on the increase in 
the opinion of Thomas F. Gallagher, 
A.B. '76, who on May 13 of this year rounded out 40 years as judge of the Fitchburg District court. 
In an interview Judge Gallagher discussed the modern trend of juvenile crime dating back 40 long years ago to the present time. With the excep­tion of the increase of theft of auto­mobiles within the past few years, present day crime in this community is not so severe as it was 40 years ago, the judge intimated. 
"The wholesale theft of automobiles by racketeers, highwaymen and boot­leggers has been responsible for the majority of present day crime of con­sequence," said Judge Gallagher. 
Asked what he thinks about the jury system. Judge Gallagher re­sponded that he believes it fair in every respect and that a defendant is pretty sure of a just trial by that method. Incidentally but few of Judge Gallagher's District court decisions have been reversed in high court. He is widely recognized as extremely con­scientious in his daily routine and is highly respected by those who have appeared as defendants before him as well as by his associates and acquaint­ances. He is known by nearly every older attorney in the commonwealth. 
Judge Gallagher holds the honor of being the lirst president of the Fitch­burg-Leominster Bar association. He was the first attorney in Fitchburg to be admitted to the American Bar asso­ciation. He was nominated as a judge of the District court on May 7, 1892, by Gov. William E. Russell. The gov­ernor's executive council confirmed the appointment on May 12 and Judge Gallagher took the oath of office on May 13,1892. Since that time he has continuously served as the head judge in the local District court. 
Asked if he enjoys his work as a judge, the reply was that he derives considerable enjoyment in the per­formance of his official duties and that he hopes to continue as long as he is able to. 
Judge Thomas P. Gallagher was bom in Lj^n, the son of the late Thomas and Ann (Devine) Gallagher. He attended the public schools of Lynn and graduated from the high school in that city at the age of 16. He was rated as one of the most brilliant scholars in his class. He studied the clasical course. His high ranks enti­tled him to enter without further prep­aration, Notre Dame University. He graduated from that institution with an A.B. degree in his possession. He became interested in law and began the study of it with Attorney William 
D. Northend of Salem. After a period of capable instruction he passed an examination to become a member of the bar. 
(Names of those attending Com­mencement are listed under the Classes.) 
. 1877 Frank H. Vennet 
1878 Henry Newmark 
1880 Dr. J. B. Bei-teling 
1881 Joseph C. Smith 
1887 

'87—COLONEL WILLIAM LUKE 
LUHN has announced the marriage 
of his daughter, Nancy, to Lieutenant 
Perry Howard Brown, Jr., on June 1, 
1932, Fort Sam Houston, Te.\-as. 
1888 

Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C. 
1890 Rev. James French, C.S.C. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 
1890-93 

Again I am at it—as follows: Dear Mr. Secretary: 
Another inspiration! (not neces­sai-ily for print). Let's call it "What's the Ropes," or "Policeman at the Gates." 
It is appreciated that, with the on­coming of the automobile, colleges and communities ge'nerally—Notre Dame not excepted, have their traffic prob­lems. My advent to and going out from Notre Dame were in the days not so very far removed from the velocipede. My, how it could go! After that came the "mobiles" of various denominations. We are now in the day of the auto mobile, graduated into the positive expression "motor." We formerly had the horse mobile, the shoe mobile and the high wheeled myself mobile with its somewhat mo­bile somersaults, and injuries inverse­ly as the speed. My last 56 incher is on exhibition as a curiosity in your library if the college still preserves a legacy left by one of the pristine pro­fessors lovingly remembered as "Jim­mie Edwards" who asked me to ship it to him after my advancement to the safety mobile. We thought the larger the wheel the greater the speed, but the safety showed it a "clean pair of 
(w)heels." The automobile seemed to compristi the composite of good points of all the others and became a standard neces­sity of life. My object in writing is to find out how it is arranged for the old timers, come from afar,—not merely the curious passing public,—to get into the grounds close enough to the dry landing of the Main building to dis­charge his lady passenger at the front portecochere ^yithout the necessity of having to walk-a-mile, maybe in the rain. Is there a way to get by the stop signs and Mr. Policeman who, I believe, is a fine gentleman and doing his best under his instructions? I wish to inquire from the instruction de­partment in order to be able to expe­rience the zest of the Notre Dams welcome. This is not personal to my­self just now, though I have had occasion to encounter Mr. Policeman under conditions when it didn't matter 
and a hike was good for the health. Sincerely yours, 
LOUIS P . CHUTE. 

1891 John L. Herman 
1892 

E. F. DuBrul Thos. H. Coady 
1893 

E. J. Maurus Michael A. Donahue 
1894 Dr. F. J. Powers 
1895 Martin J. Schnur 
1897 Rev. John A. McNamara 
1898 John F. Powers 
1899 Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C. 
1900 James W. Kelley 
'00—LEO GEORGE WEADOCK, " Grand Rapids, Mich., former president of the Michigan Association of Insur­ance agents, died suddenly May 9, in 
Atlantic City. Mr. Weadock was past grand knight of the Saginaw chapter 
K. of C, and former state senator. His brother, LOUIS T. WEADOCK, was graduated from Notre Dame with the Class of '99. 
1901 Wm. Mclnemy. 

1902 Rev. John J. Hennessy, C.S.C., Rev. Leo Heiser, C.S.C, Rev. T. F. Mc-Keon, C.S.C. 
1903 Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C, Rev. D. 
K. O'Mallev, C.S.C, Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, John W. Dubbs, Vitus Jones, Robert E. Lynch, Frank J. Petritz, Alexis Coquilalrd. 
1904 

G. A. Farabaugh, Rev. Thos. P. Ir\nng, C.S.C, B\Ton Kanaley. 
1905 Wm. D. Jamieson, Daniel J. O'Con­
1906 Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, John 
F. Gushing, Rev. Charles L. Doremus, C.S.C., Rev. Edward J. Finnegan, Walter Mclnemv, Rev. C L. O'Don­nell, C.S.C., Wm. P. O'Neill, Rev. John M. Ryan, C.S.C, 
1907 

Rev. Thomas Burke, CS.C, Rev. Wendell Corcoran, CS.C, G. A. Far­abaugh, Rev. Wm. H. Molony, C.S.C, Ambrose O'Connell, Rev. Louis Kellv, C.S.C. 
1908. Prof. J. A. Caparo, Maximilian J. St. George. 
1909 Rev. Richard J. CoUentine, C.S.C, Prof. Richard F. Hines, John B. Ka­naley, Paul R. Martin. 
1910 

Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C, Harry Miller, Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Lou M. Nagelsen. 
1911 

Otto S. Hanon, J. G. Kramer, Rev. Thos. Lahey, C.S.C, Jasper H. Law­ton, Rev. C C Miltner, C.S.C, Rev, John F. O'Hara, CS.C, W. R. Ryan, Fred L. Steers, John C Tully, Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, CS.C. 
1912 John W. Costello, Don Hamilton, B. 
J. Kaiser, F. L. Mendez, J. Elmer Peak. 
1913 Rev. W. J. Burke, C.S.C, Paul R. Byrne, Rev. J. Allan Heiser, C.S.C, Rev. John C. Kelly, C.S.C, Lester M. Livingston, James W. O'Hara. 
1914 Walter L. Clements, Frank Hayes, Ronald O'NeiU. 
1915 Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C, Mark 
L. Duncan, James E. Sanford. 
1916 

Mai Elward, Timothy P. Galvin, Rev. Patrick J. Haggerty, C.S.C. 
1917 Charles W. Bachman, Sam Feiwell, 
J. Paul Fogarty, John F. Guendling, Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., Rev. Michael 
A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, Rev. John J.' Rey­nolds, C.S.C, Bernard J. Voll. 
1918 '18—PETER J. RONCHETTI was a welcome visitor in the Alumni Office recently. He has since sailed for London, England, -where he can be reached through the Corn Products Co., Ltd., Bush Howe, Aldwych WC 2, London. Having just returned from Heijo, Chosen, he should find'London a peaceful retreat. 
Wm. J. Andres, Rev. George Hold­erth, C.S.C, Frank J. Hurley, Rev. Raymond Murray, C.S.C. 
1919 '19—Miss Muriel McDonald, of Chi­cago, became the bride of JAMES McGUIRE, also of Chicago, June 4, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame, in the presence of fifty guests. Immediately following the ceremony a wedding breakfast was served in the Florentine room of the Hotel LaSalle, South Bend. Mr. and Mrs. McGuire left immediately for a motor trip through the East. They will be at home at the Park Shore apartments, Chicago. Mrs. McGuire is a former student of St. Mary's college, Notre Dame, Ind. Maurice Carroll, Paul Fenlon, Rev. James McDonald, C.S.C, Arthur C. Weinrich. 
1920 James H. Brennan, Paul R. Conag­han. Rev. James W. Connerton, C. 
S. C, Vincent F. Fagan, Edward P. Madigan, E. J. Meehan, Grover Ma­lone, Walter R. Miller, Robert O'Hara, Dillon Patterson, Harry Eichwine. 
1921 William S. Allen, Edward Meagher, Callix Miller, J. Frank Miles, Ray­
mond Schubmehl, Walter A. Sweeney. 
'21—WILLIAM S. ALLEN is now associated with the law firm of Hoyne, O'Connor and Rubinkam, at 77 West Washington St., Chicago. 
1922 Hunk Anderson, Gerald A. Ashe, Harry Bachman, Jerome F. Dixon, Fred B. Dressel, Joseph Farley, Cyi-il 
B. Fites, Rev. R. E. Gallagher, George Heneghan, Aaron H. Huguenard, Ger­ald Jones, James V. Jones, Leo A. Ma-honey, Pat Manion, Kenneth Nyhan, Thos. E. Owens, Walter L. Shilts, E. 
A. Smogor, E. F. Walsh, Chester Wynne. 
1923 
Rev. J. M. Brannigan, C.S.C, John Byrne, Jos. J. Casasanta, J. Gerald Cuddihy, Arthur J. Deidrich, P. C Doran, B. B. Foley, Wm. J. Furey, E. 
W. Gould, J. P. Henneberry, B. Holm­berg, Elmer T. Holmberg, Roger Kiley, E. P. Kriemer, Tom Lieb, Rev. Joseph McAllister, C.S.C, John Mon­tague, Richard J. Nash, Cornelius J. Pfeiffer, Walter I. Eauh, John M. Rohrbach, W. E. Shea, Francis W. Thomas, George A. Uhlraeyer. 
'23—The VINCENT ENGELS of Chev-y Chase are the proud parents of a son, bom April 18. Uncles NORB and BILL were down for the christen­ing, thus giving young James William a fine start in life. Uncle Norbert and Uncle William are members of the faculty at Notre Dame. 
1924 
Thos. Cooke, Norman Feltes, Ray­mond Hoyer, Raymond J. Lang, W. R. Maher, E. A. Mavl, Rev. Charles Mc­Allister, CS.C, Clifford Noonan, Ro­bert B. Riordan. 
'24—VERNON RICKAED, fresh from HoUyivood, is now singing with Earl Burtnett's orchestra at the Lin­coln Tavern on Dempster road, Chi­cago. Vernon was heard in many talkies, including "Shanghai Lady," "Merely Mary Ann," "The Spirit of Notre Dame" and "The Movietone Follies." 
1925 
Brother Agatho, C.S.C, James E. Armstrong, Charles L. Baumgartner, Wm. J. Bossingham, Thos. Coman, G. 
J. E. Coty, W. J. Cyr, C W. Donahue, Paul Dooley, Clarence Harding, Paul 
A. Hartman, James P. McNicholas, Don Miller, Jerry Miller, Leo J. Pow^­ers, Frank Reese, George Eohrbach, Jack Scallan, Gilbert F. Schaefer, John F. Stoeckley, Sylvester Taberski. 
'25—^A baby daughter arrived May 26th to brighten up the home of Mr. and Mrs. LEONARD M. HESS. 
'25— Mr, and Mrs. Wade Hamp­


THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
ton Allison announce the marriage of their daughter, Mary Lee, to DANIEL ALOYSIUS MULHEARN, on Mon­day, April 25, in New York. And so another member of the GREAT Class of '25 is scratched off the fast dwin­dling list of "eligible bachelors." 
1926 

Wm. R. Barr, J. C. Bulger, -Andrew 
F. Conlin, R. A. Goepfrich, J. Arthur Haley, J. H. Kelleghan, F. Link, G. McDermott, G. P. O'Day, Harold J. Robertson, James Ronan, Donald C. Trombley. 
'26—The DENIS O'NEILLS send a clever announcement from Cleveland, announcing William Patrick O'Neill, 11, who was bom Saturday, April 
30. HON. WILLIAM PATRICK O'NEILL, '06, of Mishawaka, Indi­ana, is the proud grandad after whom the baby was named. 
1927 

Frank Ahem, Frank Andrews, Joe Benda, Lawrence Bieker, Bud Boe­ringer, Joe Boland, A. J. Brinkman, John Butler, Paul Butler, Tom Byrne, Ed. Callaghan, H. L. Campbell, Jr., Bill Clark, Bill Corbett, H. J. Cor­coran, Bill Coyne, Ed. DeClercq, -A.1. 
L. Doyle, Rome Dugan, Tom Dunn. 
Boris Epstein, Bart Favero, Wm. Finucane, D. A. Fitzgerald, A. N. Galone, Jack Geary, John Glaska, Geo. Guettler, Dick Halpin,' John Halpin, Dan Harvey, Tom Hearden, Ab. Henry, Bill Hillenbrand, W. H. Holland, Bob Irmiger, Herb Jones, Bill Kavanaugh, Frank Keefe. 
Carl Kemps, Gene Knoblock, Regis Lavelle, A. E. Lenhard, Hugh Mc Caffery, Bill McCullough, Charles McDermott, W. C. McDonald, Jim McFarlane, Frank McGee, Bob Mc Kenna, Ed. McLaughlin, Vinee Mc Nally, John McNellis, Pinky Martin, Frank Moran. 
John Moran, John Morsches, Ray Mumane, Tom O'Connor, Joe O'Don­nell, Frank Oehlhoffen, Bill O'Keefe, Jack Patton, J. Ken Qualley, Carlton 
B. Reilly, Steve Ronay, Clarence Rud­dy, Ed. Ryan, Rev. Harry Ryan, Paul 
W. Ryan, J. R. Scanlon, Rev. F. Schulte, C. S. C, Gene Schwartz. 
J. Slattery, Ray Snyder, Al Smith, 
J. D. Spencer, Bob Stephan, John E. Sullivan, Bill Sullivan, Mike Swygert, Les Travis, Jim Vallely, John Wall­ace, Geo. Wallner, Wm. Weber, Fritz Wilson, R. C. Worthington, Eugene Young. 
Dear Jim: 
Enclosed is a list of the fellows who returned for the 1927 CLASS RE­UNION. "The Committee in the Hole" was more than satisfied with 
the turnout and it is their belief that each and every one of those returning was well pleased with the reunion. should be any money left after the 
Of the number returning, fifty-five party expenses had been paid that we attended the reunion party at the turn it over to you to cover expenses South Bend Knights of Columbus your ofiice entailed regarding our re­after the Alumni Banquet on Satur­union. day night. In addition to the mem­It is our humble opinion that the bers of the Class present there were Class of 1927 proved beyond doubt some twenty others who were guests that they had the interest of the entire of different members of the Class. To program at heart by their presence. say that the party was a success is At the Alumni Banquet on Saturday easily proved by the fact that after all night they were by far the largest 
expenses were paid we have on hand group introduced by our new national $22.00 which we are turning over to president, Pat Manion; at the Reunion you herewith. It was the general Mass for Deceased Alumni, Saturday 
opinion of those present that if there morning, they were the largest group 
-JOHN HANCOCK SERIES-
Who ever heard of an Alumnus 
who did not expect to send his son through college? 
mSVRE IT and SECURE IT, even if you are not here to see the program through 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY^ 
OF 'BOSTON. MASSACHUSETTS 

Our 1931 Financial Sunimtary 
TOTAL ADMITTED ASSETS December 31, 1931 8621,278,133.09 
(Massachusells Insurance Department Standard of Market Valuation) INCREASE DURING 1931 37,156319.68 
Policy Reserve Required by Law «S22,220,800.00 All other Reserves on Policyholders' Account... 26,260,790.58 Reserve for Taxes and Sundries... 3,277,796.75 Dividends payable to policyholders in 1932... 20,692,929.83 Special Reserve for Asset Fluctuation and 
AmortizationGeneral Safety Fund  :  -.  5,000,000.00 43,825313.93  
TOTAL LIABILITIES  $621,278,133.09  

Paid Policy-holders in 1931 $ 87,743,766.56 Total Paid to Policyholders in 69 Years— 769305^22.00 Dividends Paid to Policyholders in I93I~ 19385,23038 
A mutual company returning annual dividends. Offers com­plete life insurance service for every phase of personal and fam­ily protection, including the insuring of a college education. 
Over 370 offices available in 37 states and jurisdictions. For information telephone your John Hancock agent, or write the John Hancock Inquiry Bureau, 197 Clarendon Street, for copy of pamphlet on "My Financial Problems." 
JOHN HAKCOCK INQUIRY BnRE.\u, 197 Clarendon St, Boston, Massachusetts Please send me a copy of "My Financial Problems." 
Name —-. —— 
Address ——— ­City State­
-OVER SIXTY-NINE YEARS IN BUSINESS­
present and all but one of those re­ceiving Communion were 1927 men; they attended the baseball game and the dedication of the new Engineering Building in large groups and the Com­merce Dinner on Saturday noon might well have been a 1927 Class luncheon. The Class was also represented at the 
K. of C. Luncheon for Supreme Grand Knight Carmody. These Commence­ment activities, besides numerous others, were well supported and cer­tainly greatly appreciated by the Class as a whole. 
It was a great Commencement, Jim, 
a great reunion and a great time was 
had by all, thanks to the whole-heart­
ed co-operation of all the men who 
came back. 
Sincerely yours, 
ED. DECLEKCQ 
PAUL BUTLER 
HEBB JOXES 
The Committee 
(No longer in the hole). 
'27—Mr. and Jlrs. RAYMOND 
SNYDER are the parents of a baby 
girl, born May 10 . , . just in time 
to make the Senior Ball. 
'27—3Ir. and Mrs. F. J. NAVARRE 
announce the arrival of a daughter, 
Noel Jeanne, on April IS. Jlrs. Na­
varre was formerly Miss Ruth Mc-
Killip. Uncle JE.A^N McKILLIP was 
a student at Notre Dame with Papa 
Jimmv Navarre. 
1928 
Wm. F. Armin, Jos. Benda, Jerome Bigge, Andrew Boyle, D. J. Bradley, Frank Donovan, Wm. Byrne, George Coury, J. T. Canizaro, J. C. DeClercq, John F. Frederick, Henry Hasley, Jos. 
P. Hilger, Francis Jones, Wm. H. Konop, M. R. Lawler, Bernard T. Loefrier, H. A. Persyn, Mark Price, David H. Smith, Paul Tobin, W. G. Wagner, Ray Worden, Louis Buckley. 
'2S—A recent letter from BOTTS CROWLEY by way of CHILLIE WALSH contains some juicy bits con­cerning some of the old guard. Through Botts we learn that "Tank" DONOHUE is going 0. K. He has a nice job as cost accountant in a large concern. Dame Rumor has it that BARNEY HUGGER is all set to be married this Summer. Botts says, "I have not seen Barney for months to check the storv, so it looks bad for the big Dutchman." BART JtcHUGH who is busy coaching, has been mar­ried a year now. BOB HUGHES is trying to sell bonds. They say he smokes cigars and has coat and pants to match, which in this day, is pros­perity plus. PAT CANNY says that the event of the season will be his marriage at N. D. No date has been received, but it should be quite a party. BILL DATLEY will be Pat's second. CHARLIE McDERMOTT, HUGHIE McCAFFERY, JIM QUINN, JIM STEWART, "Spike" McADAMS will all be there. 
Our Walter Winchell adds that CHARLIE RILEY is selling creosote out of Indianapolis. JACK McGRATH is selling clothes in Louisville, mar­ried, and has a little girl. JACK ELDER has charge of Catholic Boys Recreation in Chicago. He took his champions to New York and beat the boys there. 
'2S—Miss Doi-othy Kundtz, of Lake­wood, Ohio, was married recentlv to WILLIAM J. O'NEILL, also of Cleve­land. Among the Notre Dame men who were members of the wedding party, was FRANCIS J. O'NEILL, 'IS, who served his brother as be.st man. Ushers were: HUGH O'NEILL, '17; MARTIN A. DALY, '25; HAR­OLD RUPPEL, '2S; C. B. WILHEL­MY, Jr., '2.0, and CHARLES A. MOONEY, Jr., '2G. 
-A small 2-eception and breakfast followed at the Lake Shore Hotel. Following a wedding trip Jlr. and Jlrs. O'Neill will live at the Lake Shore Hotel temporarily. 
'28—Jlr. and Jlrs. R. F. EVANS, Jr., wish to introduce Jean Ann, their daughter, who arrived Jlay 31. She weighed 7H pounds. 
1929 
Paul C. Bartholomew, George N. Beamer, John Brown, Wm. Brown, Jack Cannon, Virgil P. Cline, Francis 
J. Gushing, Wm. J. Donelan, Jr., Sid­ney Eder, Wm. V. Gildea, Jules Gross­man, John F. Harison, Jr., Norman J. Hartzer, C. H. Homing, Thos. J. Kiener, Robert D. Lane, J. H. B. JIc-Carthy, Jos. P. JIcNamara, Wm. Jlay, Thos. JI. JIcNicholas, John Moran, Tom Lawless, Jos. Nash, James To­bin, Fred Wagner. 
'20—Word has been received fro.m Albany, N. Y., that Sister Clare of the Eucharist who received her blas­ter degree in JIusic in '29, died May 
13. Sister Clare was a member of the Sisters of the Holy Name. 
'29—Another wedding of interest is that of Jliss Geraldine Patricia Von Gal to THOJIAS F. MURPHY. 
1930 
Jos. L. Apodaca, David Barry, Jr., Walter Bernard, Harry Busscher, Louis Chapleau, Larry Cronin, George 
E. Doyle, Harry W. Draves, B. Dun-levy, Leo Durlacher, Edward Engtand, John T. Harrington, Louis Hasley, John Golden, Paul Heidkamp, Jerome Holland, Henry T. Horka, Harold Jen­nings, Paul J. Kleiser, JI. Kizer, J. J. JlcCormick, H. Patrick McLaughlin, Jr., Edward JI. Jleredith, George O'JIalley, Richard O'Toole, Henry Pratt, Raymond Reardon, Floyd Sear­er, George H. Sherwood, Charles T. Smallwood, J. W. Sullivan, Raymond Sullivan, JI. Trombley, John D. Voss, Karl R. Weigand. 
'30—The following letter from BERNIE CONROY gives us some in­formation concerning the fellows in and around New York. Dear Jim: 
DAN CANNON is busy dressing himself up for his evening stroll on the Avenue, so I have a few minutes to pass a few notes along to you. 
I suppose you heard about BERT JIETZGER'S wedding. He was here for a few days last week, and at present he and his wife are sailing to Bermuda. 
JOHN LAW is breaking into poli­tics now. He is running for Assem­blyman on the Democratic ticket in Y'onkers. He also sells insurance with the McNamara organization. 
GIL KIRWAN was in New. York as a representative of the Whip-JIix Corporation, designers and manufac­turers of dental specialties. He re­turned to Louisville, Ky., about a month ago. 
TOJI FROST is connected with the New Idea Spreader Companv of JIo­line. 111. 
JACK CANNON is attending Sum­mer School at 'Jlichigan. . He is go­ing back to Georgia Tech in the Fall. 
My brother, TOJI, is now with the Acme Fast Freight Company. He is in the Pittsburgh offices. DAN CAN­NON started today with the same firm here. 
I'll send some more news along later. 
Sincerely, Bernie Conroy. 
1931 
Austin Boyle, Lucas H. Brandon, Walter Cahill, John E. Dempsey, Clarence Donovan, J. T. Doyle, Dan Egan, Paul T. Fehlig, J. T. Golobov.-­ski, Carl Hillenbrand, Henry Kopek, Philip Konop, Jlorris K. Leahy, Wm. Leahy, Bernard JIcGIone, Larry JIol­/er, W. A. Jlortensen, Jr., Lawrence MuUins, Edward J. JIurray, Frank J. Noll, Earl O'Brien, Janies J. O'Brien, Richard O'Donnell, Edwin A. Rohr­bach, H. Gilbert Seaman, Edmund Sheeran, Robert Smith, G. JIattingly Spalding, Deon Sutton, George Was­sau. Forest R. West. 

31—LARRY "MOON" JIULLINS, football coach at Kansas University, Lawrence, Kansas, was dashing to and from the kitchen in the "caf" at Commencement time. Perhaps he is learning the gentle art of washing dishes. Larry is to be married June 14, to Jliss JIary Angela Bergan of South Bend. 







