The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 43 September-Number 4 October, 1965 

NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Alumni Association Staff Cfianges I 1965 
Commencement I Reunions I New Sports Library 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

0£5cers 
PHILLIP J. FACCENDA, '51 

Honorary President 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 

President 
MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 

Fvnd Vice-President 

GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., '44 ._. 

Club Vice-President 
PAUL I. FEKLON, '19 

Class Vice-President 

JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 

Executive Secretary 


Directorsto 1966 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR. '44 444 C3oU Rd., Deal Pari, N.J. 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 
141 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 

2415 PUgrimage TraS, Los Angeles, Calif. 90028 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 

Dallas Athletic Club Building, Dallas, Tex. 75201 



Directorsto 1967 
THOMAS P. CARNEY, '37 
1050 N. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, III. 
BERTRAND D . COUGHLIN, M.D., '26 

16 Thomdell Dr., St. Louis {Richmond Heights), Mo. 63117 
Wn-UkU V. CUDDY, '52 155 Ralph Ave., White Plains, N.Y. 
HERBERT M . SAMPSON, '50 
735 North 57 Ave., Omaha, Neb. 68132 


Directorsto 1968 
JOSEPH H . CAREY, '32 
19965 Briaidiff, Detroit, Mich. 48221 
THOMAS W . CARROLL, '51 
17 Carlton Rd., Hutchinson, Kansas 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY, JR., '43 
519 Sussex Rd., Wynncwood, Pa. 19096 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON, '47 

73 Mt. Waj-ne Avenue, Fnuningham, Mass. 01702 

Cluunnen of the 1965 Committees 
W. LANCASTER SMITH Executive 
THOMAS P. CARNEY Continuing Education 
HERBERT M . SAMPSON Athletic 
BERTRAND D . COUGHLIN Student Affairs 
THOMAS P. CARNEY Academic Affairs 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY 

Public Relations and Development 
THOMAS P. CARNEY Admissions 
HERBERT M . SAMPSON 

Religion and Citizenship 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY Placement 
BERTRAND D . COUGHLIN Budget 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR., and ^ PAUL L FENLON Nominations 
This r'T*^" " is published bi-monthly by the tJnivclsity of Notre Dame, Notie Dame, Ind. Entered as second-class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 





Notre Dame 
September-October, 1965 


Alumnus 

Volume 4 3 Number 4 
Contents: 



TO MEET A NEW CENTURY 4 
Association Staff Expansion 


PEACE THROUGH UNDERSTANDING 6 
Commencement Address and Sermon 


ABOUT ND 8 
A composite of campus news 


CHALK MARKS ON A CASSOCK 17 
Man and the Moment 


TO SAVE IT FROM THE JUNK 21 
Plans for a new Sports Library 


REUNION REVIEW 35 
Our candid photos from June, 1965 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25 JOHN J. JANOWSKI '51 
Editor Production Editor 
P. MICHAEL BASCLE '66 REV. THOAAAS J. O'DONNEIL CSC Spec/a/ Asst. Editor Columnist 
BRUCE HARLAN '49 
Photographer 
CoUCI. This striking photograph of twin brothers Kevin F. (left) am.'­Donald B. Reilly, both brokers on thefloor of the New York Stock Exchange o' the age of 29, seems to dramatize the new stature of the young Notre Dame alumnus who is shaping the future and is a large factor in the development and growth of the University and the Alumni Association programs. More about th-twin market men themselves on page 16. (Photo courtesy THE NEW YORK TIMES.'. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
All 

By James E. Armstrong '25 



Editorial Comment 
T
HIS issue of the ALUMNUS an­nounces a long-awaited and per­haps long-overdue expansion of our Alumni Association staff. 
There are some comments in con­
nection with the changes that seem im­
portant to me. 
Ahvays, you regret losing a staff member. John Laughlin has a fine \vriting talent, and contributed much to the ALUMNUS readers during his eight years as managing editor. The volume of detail took on some of the character of The Old Man and the Sea to John's creative abilities. Cer­tainly all of us wish him the recogni­tion and the enjoyment of his capac­ities, in the many years he has ahead. 
Jim Cooney is a young but familiar addition, coming from the excellent preparatory programs of the Founda­tion, and from the colorful world of the University Theatre. 
Sinularly, John Thurin assumes edi­torial responsibilities of both the ALUMNUS and NOTRE DAME maga­zines working under the present editors, with sound background as editor-in­chief of the 1959 Dome. He was a successful officer in the rigorous pro­grams of the Army, and has been a valuable member of the University of Notre Dame Press for the past several years. 
And Jim Gibbons, who will devote some of his time to Association projects, is already familiar as a former member of Notre Dame teams, -coaching staff, and more recently (and continuing) as the assistant to the Director of Public Relations, Art Haley. 
You wU note the youth of the new men. In addition to the impUcation of 
Younger personnel join an association of younger alumni to face new problems, programs and concepts. 
long associations, with the invaluable asset of continuit}', I hope the new ap­pointments also open a broader era of understanding of the large number of our younger alumni, and, even more importantly, the advent of adequate handling of new problems and pro­grams in the Association. 
Our Workshop of last January and the considerations of the Alumni Board have spotlighted the inevitability of new concepts. 
The imaginative and effective ex­pansion of the University programs under Father Hesburgh \vill demand many accompanying new and imagi­native alumni approaches. 
Computerization is an almost cer­tain trend within a few years. Club and Class organizations ^^^ll face substantial changes. Placement will take on new dimen­sions and relationships. 
Continuing education \vill become perhaps a dominant factor in alumni life. 
Public relations, financial support, enrollment problems will all assume new proportions. 
But one important fact remains. Much of the past success of the Asso­ciation has come from alumni initia­tive. The new program will not pro­duce push-button or instant substitutes for this essential perennial. 
As the presiding elder who has lived 
under six Presidents and nine football 
coaches, indulge me in just a few 
reminders. 
The same fine tradition of alimini 
family identity that marked the Asso­
ciation's birth in 1868 persists today, 
and should never be a casualty. 
The tangible services to the Univer­
sity that existed as a purpose a hundred 
years ago have only gro\vn in scope and 
diversity. The principle remains intact, 
and desire to serve should remain 
dogma. 
The expectations of our society when it faces a graduate of Notre Dame may sound far greater and be phrased quite differently now and in the years ahead, but analysis in depth wSl always in­clude a good image of the Ten Com­mandments and the Sermon on the Mount. 
And while the programs of the Asso­ciation must keep step with, iri fact lead, the creation of a sound and pro­ductive alunmi, another dogma, it seems to me, must be the ftmction of the Association: fighting a protective rearguard action against the aggres­sive pursuit of progressive impersonali­zation. 
Stroganoff or stew, the beef is vital. Whatever the blend of the future -— and our faith is unlimited in it — we should never omit basic ineredients. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 



To Meet a New 
A 
KEW managing editor for tlie 
ALUMNUS and an assistant Alumni 
secretarj' are among the recent additions 
to the executive staff of tlie Alumni 
Association as one resignation was 
tendered and three appointments were 
made. 
John F. Laughlin '48 has resigned as 
managing editor of the ALUMNUS 
after eight years of publishing the 
magazine for alumni. He has accepted 
a position as an editor with Our Sun­
day Visitor, publishing the national edi­
tion of the weekly magazine. 
Replacing John as managing editor \vill be John Thurin '59, who \vill simultaneously accept the editorship of the Notre Dame Magazine. This joint editorial policy was operative in the early years of the Notre Datnc quar­terly when James E. Armstrong and John N. Cackley ser\'ed as editor and managing editor, respectively, of both. The reunification of the two publica­tions is an indication of the increasing unity betiveen Alumni Association and Foundation offices. Fortified by liis ex­perience as editor-in-chief of the 1959 Dome, John Thurin will aid in re­union planning and work toward in­creased faculty-student-alumni contact. 
The other two appointments are 
those of James D. Cooney '59 to tlie 
position of assistant alumni secretary', 
and James V. Gibbons '53, while re­
maining as assistant to the director of 
public relations, will inaugurate pro­
grams to increase contact between stu­
dents and the Association, especially be­
tween the Association and sons of 
alumni. 
In the newly created position of as­sistant alumni secretary, Cooney wU devote the majorit)' of his time to the local alumni Clubs, renewing the con­tacts made under Tom Keman when he ^vas field secretary in 1963. Under the new programs of continuing edu­cation, placement, student recruitment 

As the Association's 1968 Centennial date approaches, the staff expands to face the new challenges of a second 100 years. 
and fund raising, the local Club \vill gain in importance, becoming a vital arm of the Universitj'. 
In addition to this responsibility Cooney will assist in the overall opera­tions of the Association which have grown with the numerical expansion of alumni, the intensification of Associa­tion programs such as Universal Notre Dame Mght and reunions, and the growing regional events such as the Florida State Convention and the family weekend at Cedar Point, Ohio. He will help maintain contact between these related endeavors and the Board of Directors and the concerned offices at the Universit)'. 
Jim Gibbons will devote part of his time specifically to the Association's programs with students. The Associa­tion's annual award to the best geo­graphical club on campus and the an­nual Senior Class dinner are just two such programs which will be continued. The liaison between the Student Gov­ernment campus commissioner and the contacts with class officers %vill be ex­panded under Gibbons. Also new pro­grams ynW be initiated to contact stu­dent sons of alumni. 
In 1968, when the first 100 years of the Alumni Association ends, we can point to many achievements in Notre Dame's history. But more than that, we will have programs under way to meet the new challenges of the Associa­tion's second century. 
Thurin has been sales promotion manager of the University of Notre Dame Press since December, 1963. A native of Canton, Ohio, he attended-

Canton Central Catholic High School and was graduated from St. Vincent's, Latrobe, Pa. At Notre Dame he majored in communication arts, receiving an AB '^ degree in 1959. He is presently a can­didate for a MAB degree at the Uni­versity. Prior to coming to Notre Dame, he served four years with the < 
U.S. Army security agency in Ft. Devens, Mass., and Herzo Base, Ger- ., many, attaining the rank of captain. He also ser\'ed as assistant advertising manager of Thurin's Home Furnish­ings in Canton. He is married to the former Catherine Ann Clancy of Rocky River, O.; they have three chil­dren: Martin Phillip, Peter Francis and ' Julie Marie. 
Laughlin was educated in South Bend and was valedictorian of Central Catholic High School in 1944. During • the war years, he attended Notre Dame, enlisted in the Navy and studied . at Bucknell and the University of Pennsylvania, majoring in journalism. He %vas graduated from Notre Dame in 1948, cum laude. 
He became a member of the ALUMNUS staff in 1957, having pre-­viously worked for the Record Press in '^ South Bend and having edited the Record, a county political-legal weekly. He was also editor of the Plane Facts, ' a monthly paper for 8,000 Bendix-i workers in South Bend and Mish­awaka. Active in many civic organiza­tions, he has recently turned to pro- ^. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
ff 



Century... 
grams helping the migrant worker, the Catholic Family Movement and Cath­
• die Young Adults. He is a member and soloist of St. Anthony's choir. He is married to the former Dorothy Koches and the father of Thomas, Maureen, Sheila and Patricia. 
Cooney joined the Notre Dame Foundation as an assbtant director in July, 1961. For three-and-a-half years previous to that he was staff announcer and newscaster on \VNDU-TV and radio, the Universit)' stations. In his Foundation post, Cooney was engaged in fund raising and related activities in several states, including Illinois, Kan­sas, Missouri, Oklahoma and New Me.xico. Cooney received an AB degree in communication arts from Notre Dame in 1959. As an undergraduate he was active in the University Thea­tre; since graduation he has been di­rector of the South Bend Civic Theatre. A native of Chicago, 111., Cooney is a graduate of St. Mary's High School, Albuquerque, N. M. He was employed by station KQUE and the FBI while there from 1953 to 1955 before enter­ing Notre Dame. He is married to the former Anne Rody of Elkhart, Ind. They have two daughters and one son. 
Gibbons was appointed assistant di­rector of public relations in January, 1963. He had served as assistant base­ball and basketball coach at the Uni­versity since 1956, after pitching for Jake Kine's baseball squad and play­ing guard for Johnnie Jordan's basket­ball team as an undergraduate. He re­ceived an AB d^e e from Notre Dame in 1953 and served t^vo years in the 
U. S. Army and was basketball and baseball coach at Chicago's Mt. Carmel High School, 1955-56. He managed the Pittsburgh Pirates' farm club in Kingsport, Tenn., during the summers of 1960 and 1961. He is married to the 
"former Betty Ann McGinn of Jamaica, 
N.Y. They have four children: Nancy Marie, Brian James, Kevin and Michael. 
Appointments . . 
James D. Cooney 
John P. Thurin 
James V. Gibbons 
John F. Laughlin 


Peace 

"We have given respect to the fact that there are interests, hopes and purposes not the same as
McGeorge Bundy 

ours . . . ." 
"... The spring of 1940 marks the great modem turning point in the in­ternational affairs of the United States." Thus was Presidential Assistant Mc­George Bundy's prelude to his address before the 120th Commencement Ex­ercises. Following are excerpts from that address. 
There is a sense in which the foreign affairs of the United States before 1940 are episodic, intermittent, unsustmned and in a measure even unreal, but from that day forward it has not been so. 
We have been called .. . to address ourselves continuously for a quarter of a century to the obligations of great power.... We must be preoccupied not simply with the gaining and the use of this extraordinarj' power, but with the end to which it should be used, and that end beyond victor)' was peace. 
To many of us who ser\'ed in that war (WW II) it seemed, too easily, that victory itself would mean world peace. 

We did not foresee the complexities and hazards and the error of the post­wai world. We thought we were for­ward looking when we gave our al­l^iance to the notion of a new world organization; when we saw and cheered the work of Franklin Roosevelt and those about him as they organized the UN 
So that made two steps new for our generation: the acceptance of power; and tlie objective of peace and the responsibility' for action to acliieve it 
It became clear ver)' soon after the war that you could not simply w n a wctorj' or sign a peace. You had to build, and you had to build in a world torn apart by destruction and shaking with beginning hopes. And the United States, in serving its own interests, must give its attention to the interests of others. 
And then we found ourselves con­fronting a fourth continuing reality: that there are centers of power now in­creasing; .. . that if they are not re­sisted they would have their own way . . .; and that if they are to be resisted the responsibility, in the first instance, must fall to the United States. 
Now I submit to you that the world in which you graduate is a world in which these four great facts of Ameri­can Ufe are still with us. And I submit to you also that the tribulations and difficulties of 1965 are not greater than tliose through which we have come in the last 25 years. 
. . . We have met in the main the responsibility of having and of holding and of using the great power which comes to us by our size and strength and oiir social, economic and political success. 
We have been true in the main to a continuing purpose of peace and have been ready to accept the discipline of membership in an international so­
ciety. .. . 
I think that we have given respect.. .^ to the fact that there are interests, hopes and purposes not the same as ours, that we have conducted our af-­fairs so as to permit and even encour­age the diversity which the world has \ by the nature of its peoples and its _ countries and its climates, and that we < have not sought to make this an Ameri­can century. 
In the main we have met the dial-^ lenge where we could and as we could, posed not for us alone, but for the hopes of all free men by tlie ambitions of the communist imperialists. "* 
The record is by no means perfect. We have had moments of weariness and weakness, moments of division and doubt We have had debates, greater ^ debates I think than any we faced this spring. — 
There have been troubles along the way and there will be more to come. They come increasingly because what „ began . . . one problem at a time . . -^, has now become a mbced, continuing •» exercise. So when we look, as we must,j[­at the hard problems of Santo Domingo and Saigon, we are looking at problems of power and of peace and of the in­terests of other men and also of the ] ambitions of the communists. And we"||j must look at them, work upon them ... all four of them ... to serve our purposes. — 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 


Through Understanding 
"Between faith and knowl-
X edge there is no contradiction ^ — but in an individual man faith and knowledge may be in 1 conflict . . . ." 
Saint Peter's sermon on Pentecost to the multitude in front of the house where the Apostles had gathered became the first manifestation of the Church — in the power of tlie Holy Spirit. The Apostles were no longer afraid, for tliey had seen the victory of their Lord. The doors, shut for fear of the Jews, were thrown open. Saint Peter, at the head of the Apostles, came out in front of the multitude, which represented all mankind. Without fear, frankly, Peter spoke about his Lord's triumph, for the Holy Spirit was within him. He enunciated to the world the meaning of Pentecost: the authorization by God of Jesus of Nazareth as Lord and Christ, and the authorization by God of all those who were going to believe in Jesus as their Lord and Christ, the authorization of the Church. Saint Luke in his Acts of the Apostles tells with some sort of pride how on that Pentecost, after Peter's conNdncing and fervent preach­ing, 3,000 men were baptized and joined the young Church. The history of the Church had begun — her march through the ages had started. 
And we are the Church — all of us who believe in Our Lord and who are united with Him through Baptism. 
The University of Notre Dame 
confers the degree of 
Doctor of Lnus, honoris causa 
on 

a Prince of the Church, a noted educator and biblical scholar, a shepherd 
whose pastoral concern embraces the world. This son of a Netherlands 
carpenter has himself become a builder, a fasliioncr of spiritual bridges 
joining men of all faitlis. He has urged the Catholic Church to ''sacri­
fice nonessential elements of her life that tend to confuse non-Catholics 
about the true nature of her unity." Early in his priestliood the future 
Cardinal commenced on a long career of teaching Sacred Scripture and 
biblical exegesis in Duldt seminaries. Before leaving the life of the 
seminary for the more rigorous duties of an archbishop, he made im­
portant contributions to tlie official Dutch traiulation of the Bible. 
A further indication of this great priest's unflagging interest in move­
ments of intemationat scope developed after his eIe\'ation to the epiico­
palc when he served as national chairman of the international Catholic 
peace organization, Pax Christ!. Proclaimed a Cardinal in 1960 by tlic 
late Pope John, he played an energetic and illuminating role in 
preparatory- work for the Second Vatican Council, and througho-it llie 
Council itself has brilliantly led and ably abetted the forces of ecumenism 
and the Peace of Christ. On 

His Eminence Bernard Jan Cardinal Alfrink Archbishop of Utrecht, The Netherlands 
Fr. Hesburgh Cardinal Alfrink 
In every one of us the Spirit of Jesus wants to live, to work, 
to be active. 

This is the task the Lord has given us through His Paraclete: to show the world, the people in the midst of whom we live, the image of the grown-up Christian, who in all circumstances of life takes God into account, who lives with God, who by his faith in the Lord Jesus and by his love for Him also tries to keep His commandments. For so the Lord has said: "If any one loves me, he wU keep my word. . . . He that loveth me not, keepeth not my words." 
That image of the grown-up Christian, of a good man, of a faithful Catholic, is the best preaching, the clearest manifestation of the Holy Spirit of the Lord Jesus, of His Church. 
If this applies to every Catholic, it applies in a special sense to the Catholic who in some way or other devotes himself to knowledge. Between faith and knowledge there is no contradiction — but in an individual man faith and knowledge may be in conflict sometimes. When a man only increases his intellectual development to win influence and social position, but forgets to fortify and consolidate his faith and to increase his religious knowledge, it may be that in such a man a gap arises between faith and knowledge, even a conflict. Faith and knowledge should not exist in a man ne.Kt to each other as if they could not exist together. Faith and knowledge must be integrated in a Christian man, must grow together into a perfect harmony. And therefore we need the light of the Holy Spirit — and in all humility we have to pray for that light. 
ffolre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 


About ND 
Sr. Suzanne Kelly OSB Br. Raphael Wilson CSC 

ND's 'First Lady' 
(Editor's Note: This "first" refers to a full-time faculty appointment during the regular school year. It does not affect the long and brilliant record compiled by women faculty members, religious and lay, who have been members of the faculties of the Summer Sessions since their beginning in 1918.) 
It took a nun to do it, but the girls have made it to the "head of the class" atND. 
Sister Suzanne Kelly OSB will be the first woman to join the full-time Uni­versity faculty when she begins her teaching as an assistant professor in the general program this fall. 
Completing her studies tliis summer at Oklahoma State Universityj Sr. Suzanne will teach courses in the phi­losophy and history of science. 
Rev. John Walsh CSC, \'ice-presi­dent for academic aflFairs, stated that Sr. Suzanne's appointment was not re­garded "as a change of policy in view of the fact that women have taught in our summer program for many years." 
"In the case of Sr. Suzaime," Fr. Walsh added, "we regard her as the best qualified person available in her highly specialized field." 
Sr. Suzanne is a native of Tulsa, Okla. where she received her under­graduate degree from Benedictine Heights College. Her doctorate in sci­ence is from the University of Okla­homa, Norman. 
The daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Kelly, of Tulsa, Sr. Suzanne has two married sisters and a younger brother who graduated from ND in 1957. 
Fr. Wakh indicated that other wom­en, both reli^ous and lay, wU be con­sidered for full-time faculty contracts on their merits as the occasion arises. 

'Enter Here' 
Brother Raphael Wilson CSC has 

been appointed director of admissions 
for the University, it was announced 
September 8 by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce 
CSC. 
Brother Raphael, who has been serv­ing as assistant head of the biology department, succeeds Rev. James Moran CSC, who has been on sick leave since 1963. Rev. James Hoffman CSC, who has been acting director of admissions, was recently appointed University chaplain. 
A specialist in radiation physiology. Brother Raphael holds a doctorate in bacteriology and virology, is a member of the Lobvmd Laboratory staff, has a «.• master's degree in educational psy­chology, and has been a consultant to the Educational Testing Ser\'ice, Princeton, N.J. 
A native of Trenton, N.J., Brother Raphael entered the novitiate of the Brothers of the Holy Cross in 1943 and Ni enrolled in Notre Dame the following year, receiving an undergraduate de­gree in biology in 1948. 
During the next 11 years he was as­sociated with St Edward's University, Austin, Tex. as a professor of biology, director of guidance and testing and dean of the collie. 
While in Texas, Brother Raphael re­ceived his master's degree from the University of Texas in 1951 and his doctorate at its medical branch in 1954. 

A New Department 
As classes began this fall a new psy­chology department offered its first 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
courses at the University. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, recently an­nounced the formation of the psychol­ogy department and the appointment of its head. Dr. John Santos, formerly co-director of the Program in Reality Testing, Menninger Foundation, To­peka, Kans. 
The new department, under the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, will be re­search and not clinically orientated. 
Psychology courses have been taught for years in the University's philosophy department and these will continue to be offered in that department. 
Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, ex­plained the need for the department as a recognition "that the philosophical or Thomistic approach cannot take into account the modem empirical meth­ods of studying behavior." 
The establishment of an autonomous psychology department is now possible, Fr. Sheedy explained, wth funds not previously available. He cited support generated by Notre Dame's Challenge II Program and the participation in the Ford Foundation's special program in education. 
According to Fr. Sheedy, the new department mil focus on the experi­mental, developmental, personal and social aspects of psychology. At the outset, he said, two undergraduate courses will be offered, normally in the sophomore year, "Introduction to Psy­chology" and "Statistics." He said a major sequence of studies will begin in 1966, and a doctoral program ivill 

• be established in aboilt five years. He stressed that the University will seek to produce psychologists who are pri­marily scholars rather than practi­tioners. Temporarily the psj'chology depart­ment will occupy the former Architec­ture Building which is currentiy imder­going extensive remodeling. Eventu­ally, Fr. Sheedy said, the psychology department •will move into Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Hall when a contem­plated Life Sciences Center is erected. Prof. Santos and Dr. Bobby J. Far­row, who also joins Notre Dame's psy­chology department, have been asso­ciated in the work of The Menninger Foundation. Santos holds undergrad­uate and doctoral degrees from Tulane 
.University and has done extensive cross-cultural and Peace Corps research in Brazil. Farrow, who recently received a doctorate from the University of Texas, studied earlier at the Texas Col­lege of Arts and Industry, Washburn University and the University of Kansas. 

Philosophy Head 
Rev. Eman McMullin, a specialist 
in the philosophy of science, was named 
the new head of the University's phi­
losophy department in August by Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesbuigh CSC. 
Fr. McMullin, who joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1954, succeeds Dr. Harry A. Nielsen as department head. Dr. Nielsen will devote his time to teaching. 

A native of Donegal, Ireland, Fr. McMullin was a visiting professor at the University of Minnesota in Minne­apolis during the past year. Fr. Mc­Mullin received honor degrees in physics and theology from Maynooth College of the National University of Ireland and was ordained in 1949. 
He studied theoretical physics at the Institute of Advanced Studies in Dublin, following which he studied phi­losophy at the University of Louvain, Belgium. 
His book, The Concept of Matter, was published by Notre Dame Press in 1963. 
He studied the philosophy of science at Yale University from 1957 to 1959 under a National Science Foundation grant. 

Sandeen Appointed 
Prof. Ernest E. Sandeen, a poet and specialist in American literature, was recentiy named head of the Univer­sity's English department. 
Rev. Eman McMullin 
Ernest E. Sandeen 

Prof. Sandeen was appointed to re­place Prof. Alvan S. Ryan who is leav­ing the University to become chairman of humanities and professor of English at the University of Massachusetts in Boston. 
Two volumes have been published of Sandeen's poetry: Antennas of Silence and Children and Older Strangers. His poems have also appeared in The New Yorker, Poetry, The Yale Review, and Commonweal. He is also co-author of Fifty Years of the American Novel and American Classics Reconsidered. 
An Illinois native, Prof. Sandeen is a graduate of Knox CoU^e, Oxford University in England and the State University of Iowa where he lecoved 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Seplembtr-Oetoier, 1965 $ 
in 1952, entered the novitiate of the He is the author of Introduction to ­


MORE About ND 
Rev. Joseph Simons CSC 

his doctorate in 1940. 
He became a member of tlie Uni­

versity faculty in 1946. He •was a Ful­
bright lecturer in American literature 
at the University of Aarhus in Den­
mark in 1957-58. 
He is married to tiie former Eileen 

Bader of Madison, 111., and they have 
a daughter and. a son. 

Dean of Students 
Rev. Joseph B. Simons CSC has 

been appointed dean of students at 
the University by Rev. Theodore M. 
Hesburgh CSC, University' President 
Fr. Simons, who was assistant dean 

of students during the past year, suc­
ceeds Rev. A. Leonard Collins CSC, 
who has been the University's disciplin­
ary officer since 1957. Fr. Collins \vill 
be the director of a newly established 
postulate or house of formation for 
prospective Holy Cross seminarians in 
New Orleans, La. 
A native of Janesville, Wis., "Fr. 

Simons has' sp^alized in educational 
•psycHbl(^. He'enrolled at Notre Dame 
Holy Cross Fathers in 1954, and was graduated from the University in 1957. 

Following four years of theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washing­ton, D. C , he was ordained to the priesthood in 1961. He holds master's degrees from Notre Dame and Holy Cross College and took graduate study during 1963-64 at Yale University. 
O. Timothy O'Meara 


New Math Head 
. Prof. O. Timothy O'Meara has been appointed head of the University's mathematics department to succeed Prof. Thomas E. Stewart, • recently named associate \'ice-president for academic affairs. -"~ , • 
Prof. Wilhelm Stoll has been named chairman of the department for a year­and-a-half and Prof. George Kolettis has been appointed assistant head for a three-year period. 
This distribution of. duties \vas de­signed to allow the three professors to pursue mathematical research while providing administrative continuity. 
O'Meara came to Notre Dame in 1962 after serving four years as a fac­ulty membei- at Princeton University. He holds a doctorate from Princeton and did his undergraduate work at the University of Cape Town, South Af­rica, his native city. 
He has specialized in algebra and the theory of nuinbers. His research, supported by the National Sdence Foundation, deals with the arithmetic properties of classical groups. 
Quadratic Forms, a volume in a cele­
brated German mathematical series. 
He is married to the former Jean . 

Fadden of Philadelphia and they have 
five children. 

ND's Vatican II 
An international conference of theo­

logians of all faiths will discuss "The 
Main Theological Issues of Vatican II" 
in a conference scheduled for March 
20-26, 1966, in the soon-to-be com­
pleted Center for Continuing Educa­
tion. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, 

University president, said Council 
fathers and theolo^ans from this coun­
try and abroad who were very influen­
tial in the formulation of 'Vatican II 
s-

documents wdll present papers in three major areas: Religion and Revelation: The Church; and The Church in the World Today. 
(A Council father is a bishop or other delegate to Vatican who pos­sesses full voting rights.) 
"The purpose of the conference," said Fr. Hesburgh, "is to explore the implications of the final results of the council, and to draw out their in­fluence on Christian faith' in the years ahead. The spirit of the session will be that of attempting to bring to the fuller light and fruition the theological 1 achievemeiib of the council and, in no sense, that of critical re-examiriation." 
•Rev. Albert Schlitzer CSC, head of the Notre Dame theology department and executive chairman of the confer­ence, said, however, that animated dis­cussion will be encouraged, not only in the Center's auditorium wth its simul­taneous translation facilities, biit also in smaller groups and even at meals. 
The Most Rev. Mark McGratii CSC '44, Bishop of Santiago de Veraguas in 
If 

Panama and a member of the Council's Theological Commission, will be gen­eral chairman of the conference. 

The Problem 
\ 

•'""Supported by another Ford Founda-. tion. grant of $100,000 the University ^' plans to sponsor a series of regional population conferences and studies of certain population problems. 
Dr. George' N. Shuster, assistant to the president and director of the Center 
^ 

for'the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, said conferoices were planned 
^0 ^'NotTebaTtie Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
for the Southwest, New England and 
the South Atlantic areas. The research 
will deal \vith issues of moral or theo­
logical implications. 
Dr. William Liu, the Center's direc­
tor ol population studies, will head the 
two-year program. 
Conference participants will include 
theologians, philosophers, sociologists, 
demographers and other specialists in 
marriage and family life representing 
the laity and a cross section of religious 
communities. 
According to Shuster the in-depth 
studies will consider sexual morality, 
contraceptive birth control and rhythm, 
responsible parenthood and contem­
porary theolog)', population problems 
in developing countries and public 
policy in the United States. 
Dr. Liu, an associate professor of sociology and a specialist in social psy­chology', joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1961. He was educated at St. Thomas College, the University of Notre Dame and Florida State Uni­versity where he received his doctorate in 1958. He also has done postdoc­toral research at the University of Chi­cago. He is the author of a Chinese text. Social Psychology, and is a fre­i quent contributor to sociological jour­
nals. 
HOW EXPENSIVE IS 
NOTRE DAME? 
The following figures, taken 
from authoritative' sources in a 
current leaflet, indicate that 
Notre Dame retains its interest in 
giving the student a quality edu­
cation at a relatively low cost 
The four-year costs listed below 
include tuition, room and board, 
fees and a $500 annual expense 
plus. 
New York U _...$14,260 
Columbia 14,136 
Chicago 13,880 
Har\'ard 13,560 
M. I. T 13,320 Northwestern 13,280 Princeton 13,280 Yale _... 13,200 ^Villiams 13,000 Syracuse 12,660 Vanderbilt 12,640 Georgetown 12,600 Stanford 12,380 Oberlin 12,280 Pittsburgh 12,184 So. California 12,096 Holy Cross 12,000 NOTRE DAME ...... 11,400 

David J. Shanahan Deon Sutton John W. Crowe 

New Fund-Raisers 
Three alumni have been appointed new assistant directors of the Notre Dame Foundation by James W. Frick '51, vice-president for public relations and development. 
They are Deon Sutton '31, David J. Shanahan '58 and John W. Crowe '62. 
Sutton will be in charge of the Notre Dame Foundation's office in New York City after serving 11 years as export manager for an industrial chemicals manufacturer. He . lived several years in Paris where he was engaged in pri­vate business and also was associated with the American Embassy and the psychological warfare division of SHAEF. His wife is the former Simone Legand of Paris. 
Shanahan has been assignee! to the Chicago office of the Foundation. He formerly served as an account execu­tive with Kelly Girl Service, Inc., in New York City and as a sales repre­sentative of O'Connor-McLaughlin Co. in his native Lima, Ohio. He is mar­ried to the former Diane Hauenstein of Lima, and they have one son. 
Crowe will coordinate Notre Dame's development activities in the north­eastern states. Until recently he was a 
U.S. Army protocol' officer at Fort Bliss, Tex. As a senior he was president of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Bom in Cincinnati, he is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Clement F. Crowe, Eden, N.Y. 

The elder Crowe was captain of the 1925 Notre Dame football team, was a varsity basketball player 1923-26, and returned to the campus as head basket­ball coach during the 1944-45 season. 

Success Story 
The number of University freshmen qualifying for the Dean's List after one semester has virtually doubled since the 1962-63 school year and the inaugura­tion of the Freshman Year of Studies, according to Dr. William M. Burke, dean of the program. 

Whereas 105 freshmen achieved Dean's List status in 1962-63, there were 208 first year students on the list after the 1964-65 first semester. Twenty of these have a straight "A" (4.0) average, an increase of 12 over last year. The number of academic proba­tions for freshmen has dropped 25 per cent. 
There were an additional 200 fresh­men with a "B" (3.0) or better aver­age who did not meet the Dean's List requu-ement of 3.25. In all 408 (28 per cent) of the .IjSSO freshmen last year had a "B" average or better. 
According to Dean Burke the fresh­men's academic success can be at­tributed to three factors: an active counseling program to identify to the student areas of strength and weakness; the new Memorial Library; and the use of more experienced teachers for fresh­man classes. 
Citing the new Library, built with 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
Maritain, received an honorary doctor Rock, Ark.; banker, 

MORE About ND 
funds from Challenge I, Dean Burke noted that the quiet, spacious and com­fortable study facilities, wdi open bookstacks had increased library at­tendance 400 per cent and book circu­lation 200 per cent. 

Summer Grads 
Four hundred and t\s-entj'-five stu­dents, a majority of them sisters, re­ceived d^;rees at the Universit)''s sum­mer commencement at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, August 6. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president, conferred 11 doc­torates, 365 master's degrees and 50 undeigraduate degrees. 
The commencement address was de-Uvered by Rev. Leo R. Ward CSC, professor emeritus of philosophy at Notre Dame. Father Ward, author of a number of books including Philos­ophy of Education, Blueprint for a Catholic University and The Social and Political Philosophy of Jacques of laws degree at the exercises. 
Rev. Charles Sheedy CSC, dean of the college of Arts and Letters, preached the sermon during the Baccalaureate Mass, celebrated by Father Hesburgh in Sacred Heart Church. Father Sheedy has been dean of the Univer­sity's liberal arts school since 1952 and is the former head of its theology de­partment He is the author of Chris­tian Virtues. 


Young Alumni 
Twenty-four alumni of Notre Dame have been named to the 1965 listing of Outstanding Young Men of Amer­ica. 

Approximately 3,000 men between the ages of 21 and 35 were selected in recognition of ability, accomplishments and service to community', country and profession. 
University alumni selected were: ^Villiam F. Anhut BS '51, Ypsilanti, Mich.; hotel owner and manager, and attorney. Tony Bill BA '62, HoUy^vood, Calif.; actor. Harry Lee Buch BS '52 LLB '55, A\Tieeling, W. Va.; attomej' and legis­lator. Richard W. Conklin MA '59, St. Paul, Miim.; publicist and teacher. Donald R Couch BBA '63, Little 
DR. LEO R. WARD CSC addresses the 1963 smmner commencement ceremonies that were hdd August 6 at' the Grotto. More than 423 students received d^rees at the graduiition exercises. Seated behind Dr. Ward are (left to right) Dean Frederick Rossini, College of Science; Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Univer^ty president; Dean Th(mias Murphy, Collie of Business Administration; and Dean Charles Sheedy CSC, Collie of Arts and Letters, yibo gave the Baccalaureate sermon. 
Robert A. Daily BS '57, Loogootee, 

Ind.; insurance agent. 
David M. Dooley BBA '60, Loo­

gootee, Ind.; U.S. Army officer and 
attorney. 
Carl W. Engstrom BA '59, Cohoes, 

N.Y.; attorney. 
Joseph T. Gormley Jr. BA '55 LLB V: 

'56, Monroe, Conn.; attorney. 
Joseph F. Guide BS '52, Amarillo, -> 

Tex.; company executive. -­
Donald M. Hellinghausen BBA '50, 

Breckenridge, Tex.; company executive. . 
Richaid A. Klumb BSME '53, West 

Bend, Wis.; company executive. 
John R. Moran Jr. AB '52, Denver, 

Colo.; attorney. 
Patrick W. Nee AB '61, Roslindale, 

Mass.; legislator. 
Lemont A. Rentherghem BS '57, 

Niles, Mich.; banker. f 
Richard A. Rosenthal BS '54, South 

Bend, Ind.; banker. ^ 
Harry K. Sickler BS '53, Tyrone, 

Pa.; certified public accountant. 
Thomas L. Shaffer LLB '61, South Bend, Ind.; assistant professor of law, * Notre Dame. 
Charles F. Spicka BS '54, U.S. Au: ­Force Academy, Colo.; instrumental •. pilot. 
John M. Spruce BA '58, Millinocket, Mo.; insiu-ance agent Joseph H. Stengele BSC '52, Joliet, ^ 111.;.company executive. 
Thomas A. Tafelski BBA '63, Blythe-^ ville Air Force Base, Ark.; supply man­agement executive. 
James S. Taylor LLB '60, Elkhart, Ind.;.attorney and corporate executive. Dr. LesUe P. Theard PhD '61, Albu- "^ querque, N.M.; physical chemist. 

Lay Spokesman 
A Notre Dame alumnus, William Ball '48, general counsel of the Penn­sylvania Catholic Welfare Committee, former Villanova professor and a specialist in constitutional law, is fre­quently in the national spotlight. 
Most recent, as this is %vritten, is Bill's appearance before the U.S. Sen­ate Govenmient Operations Subcom­mittee on August 24th, as a representa-^ tive of the views of the National Cath­olic Welfare Conference,' as well as the Pennsylvania branch. The hearing was on proposed birth-control legisla­tion, particularly the Gruening bill. 
In his testimony. Bill • reviewed the 

DEFERREIMiIVING SYMPOSIUM—Three guests and specialists in taxation and estate planning meet with Rev. Thomas O'Donnell CSC (right), director of the University's library Association, at a symposium in New Yoric in May on "Tihc Creative Conservation of Wealth Through Estate Planning and Its Relationship to Private Higher Education," sponsored by the Univeraty. Left to right are: James F. Thomburg of South Bend, estate planning specialist and tax counsel to the Notre Dame Foundation; Rene A. Wormser, New York attorney and specialist and lecturer in the estate planning field; Harold Swartz, assistant commissioner Internal Revenue — Technical, Washington, D.C., pension and corporate tax specialist. More than 150 lawyers, tax authorities, insurance and trust executives and others gathered to discuss deferred giving to private institutions of higher learning. 
relationships between individual liberty and social welfare, and indicated a na­tional consensus for promoting both 


New Law Advisor 
goals without sacrificing either. He cited four guideposts for pro­Morris B. Abram, prominent New tecting individual liberty, which he at­York City, attorney who practiced law tributed to U.S. Supreme Court de­in Atlanta until 1962, has been ap­cision sources: freedom from govern­pointed to the Notre Dame Law mental inquisition; the related right of School Advisory Council, it was an­privacy; concern for the weaker mem­nounced August 15th by Rev. Theodore bers of society; and governmental M. Hesburgh CSC, University presi­coercion of mind and conscience. 
dent. 

From the above sketchy indication of Bill's effective contribution in just one Abram is U. S. representative to the incident, it is apparent that the Church United Nations Human Rights Com-and the Catholic laity have an out­mbsion and national president of the standing talent at work. American Jewish Committee. H e is a 
A GROWING ND CLUB PROJECT 
As recommended in the Manual for Local Alumni Clubs, more and more clubs are sponsoring the "Going-Away" meeting for returning undergraduates and new freshmen. Usually, and desirably, the fathers have been included. In the evolution of the program, there is a movement to include mothers as well. It builds up both the campus and the alumni clubs; it brings new members into the Notre Dame family. 
Jim Gibbons, assistant in the Public Relations Department, has been specializing in representing Notre Dame at these meetings. His 1965 schedule Cbelow) reflects the growth of this significant program. If your Club does not have this type of meeting in its 1966 planning yet, you might start considering.it now. 
Going Away Meetings, 1965 
September  1  Notre Dame Club of Boston  
September  2  Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh  
September  7  .......Jfotre Dame Club of Newark  
September  8  _  „  Jfew Jersey Shores Club  
September  9  JNotre Dame Club of New York City  
September 10  Notre Dame Club of Louisville  
September 12.  Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis  
September 13  _  JJotre Dame Club of Chicago  
September 14.  JNotre Dame Club of Cleveland  
September 15  .Twin Cities Club  

member of the New York law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharbm and Garrison and formerly was a partner in the firm of Heyman, Abram arid Young in Atlanta. 
Bom in Fit2gerald, Ga., Abram is a graduate of the Univenity of Georgia and the University of Chicago Law School. As a Rhodes Scholar, he holds baccalaureate and master's d^rees from Oxford University in England. He was admitted to the Georgia bar in 1940 and to the bar of the State of New York in 1962. 
Abram is a former chairman of the Adanta Citizens Crime CommissicHi and was a candidate for the Demo­cratic nomination in Georgia's 15th Congressional District in 1954. He was decorated \vith the Legion of Merit for his service as an Air Force major dur­ing World War II. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and a contributor to legal journals. 
HEADQUARTERS for the Miami Oiib during the November.27 wedtend of Ae Notre Dame-Miaiiu game will be the tow­ering Deauville Hotel <m Miami Beach (at 67th Street). Five hundred rooms bsre been reserved tor the weekend, and numer­ous activities are in Ime for aU vBilii^ alumni, family and friends. For mwe in­formation, see the Miami Club cdumn in the Oub Section of this issue. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 13 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKS 
SELDOM WITHOUT LOVE, by Josephine Curtsinger and E. C. Curtsinger Jr. BA '48 PhD '55 (Macmillan). 

This is a storj' of a farm wife in a little Texas town in 1933. Her assets include an old-fashioned hearing aid. a houseful of children, a husband cap­able of doing all things — but who has never been challenged — and an in­sane old fatlier who must be gotten into heaven. 
Gene Curtsinger worked with his late mother in writing this novel and at­tributes many of die scenes to her cre­ativity and memor)'. She too wore a hearing aid and raised eight children in a small Texas town. 
As Gene \\Tites of tlie work: "I re­gard it as somewhat in the tradition of tlie epic, its characters written large if only to fall harder, and its action on a grand scale...." 
OFFENSIVE AND DEFENSU'E DRILLS FOR WINNING BASKETBALL^ by Lyle Brown with Dave Warner '48 
(Prentice Hall, Inc.) 

Rochester Democrat and Chronicle sportswriter Dave AVamer wrote this book for Universitj'of Rochester basket­ball coach Lyle Brown. 
The book contains 250 game situa­tion drills as well as a complete, year-around plan for player improvement and isometric exercises. 
ND basketball coach Johnny. Dee writes on the book's jacket: "A very much needed book, particularly since it is directed at all levels of the game. Invaluable to all coaches — from grade school on up." 
(Houston CHKUJMi>i.ii puuiuj 

EMMETT WALTER PhB '14 AM '15 LLB '16 (left) listens as John T. Jones Jr. (right), preadent of the Houston, Tex. CHRONICLE, speaks at the dedication of a $240,000 puHic library in Walter's name recently. Walter, former CHRONICLE editor and for eight years chaiman of the dty planning commission, is now editorial consultant for the newspaper. Also at the dedication of the M. E. Walter library are (left to right): Mrs. M. E. Walter; Cari Stnebing, president, Houston Library Board; and Most Rev. John Morkovsky, bishop of Galveston-Houston diocese. 
/•* Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
UBRABT HOLDINGS 
Victor A. Schaefer, director of University libraries, has announced a partial report of the accessions 

of  the University libraries  for  
1964-65.  
volumes  

Total holdings of Uni­
versity libraries except 
Law School library, , June 30, 1964. 634,090 
Additions, June 1, 1964 through June 30, 1965 37,693 
Law School library as of June 30, 1965 67,171 
Total holdings of all Uni­versity libraries as of June 30, 1965 738,954 

Library Archives Film Documents 
The University has received a $21,660 grant from the U. S. General Services Administration for the microfilm pubU­cation of certain documentary sources of national significance in the Univer­sity Archives. 
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy CSC, Notre Dame archivist, said that collec­tions to be microfilmed as part of a hvo-year project include the letters and papers of Orestes A. Brownson, the 19th-century publicist and critic; the papers of General William Tecumseh Sherman of Civil War fame; the family correspondence of Thomas Ewing, U.S. Senator from Ohio and onetime Sec­retary of the Interior; and the early letters of Edward N. Hurley, the build­er of the "Bridge to France" in World War I. 
The Notre Dame project, being un­dertaken at the recommendation of the National Historical Publications Com­mission, will involve the preparation of the chosen collections for copymg during the coming year with the actu^ microfilming scheduled for the follow­
ing year. Aiding Fr. McAvoy in the undertaking viriU be assistant archivist Lawrence Bradley. The microfihned materials wU be sold to libraries and scholars throughout the country at cost 
«;. 
Deferred Giving 

A Gift from the Living J Means Income for Life 
Y
ou pay taxes annually and it is to your financial advantage to reduce them as much as possible. An invest­ment in Notre Dame during your life­time can reduce your tax bill and capitalize your investment into a life­time earning asset which accumulates year after year with safety for your principal and the personal satisfac­
LIFE INCOME PLAN ONE: 
You make a gift of money, property or securities to tiie University. Tlie Univer­sity agrees to include your gift in its reg­ular endowment investments and pays you or whomever you designate as beneficiary during life the average rate of return earned on these pooled investments. The average rate of return is currently over 4 per cent. 
The tax advantages: You are allowed a tax deduction in the year you purchase the plan. Your invest­ment is considered part purchase and part gift- The gift portion is deducted from your adjusted gross income up to 30 per cent for any one year, with a carry-over for the next five years if it exceeds the 30 per cent limitation. You avoid capital gains tax by exchang­ing appreciated securities for your agree­ment, and your estate and inheritance tax are reduced. Life Income Plan One may be purchased with a minimum investment of $2,000. 
tion in helping sustain and foster higher 
education at a great University. 
An investment in either Life Income 
Plan One or Life Income Plan Two 
means you receive expert management 
at no cost, additional diversification, 
safety for your principal and protected 
income backed by the resources of an 
established University worth more than 
LIFE INCOME PLAN TWO: 
You enjoy tax-e-vempt income for life by investing in Life Income Plan Two. Ap­preciated securities are given in e-xchange for tax exempt securities. All the features of Life Income Plan One accrue to you with one e.\ception. A capital gains tax will be imposed on the appreciated gain realized in e-xchange of appreciated securi­ties for ta.v exempt securities. This may be more than offset, however, by the sav­ings realized in the deductions received on your income \ax each year for the life of your contract. 
Life Income Plan Two requires a .mini­mum in%'estment of §5,000. 
The income received for cither plan has no relation to age. It is the same whether you are 35 or 70. The rate of return on both plans is not diminished when two lives ­are named in the contract. The same in­come passes to the survivor named in the contract. 
Life Income Plans appeal strongly to those between 35 and 60 years of age. 

GIFT PORTION IN LIFE INCOME INVESTMENTS  
SINGLE LIFE  
Gift Portion  Gift Portion  Gift Portion  
AGE  per $1000  AGE  per $1000  AGE  per $1000  
35  $323.50  51  $492.15  67  $690.38  
36  332.57  52  504.13  68  702.50  
37  341.85  53  516.23  69  714.48  
38  351.33  54  528.43  70  726.30  
39  361.02  55  540.74  71  737.95  
40  370.92  56  533.12  72  749.41  
41  381.01  57  565.58  73  760.66  
42  391.31  58  578.09  74  771.69  
43  401.80  59  590.64  75  782.48  
44  412.49  60  603.21  76  793.02  
45  423.36  61  615.78  77  808.30  
46  434.41  62  628.35  78  813.29  
47  445.64  63  640.89  79  823.00  
48  457.03  64  653.37  80  832.41  
49  468.59  65  658.80  81  841.51  
50  480.30  66  678.14  82  850.30  

Upon request, rates will be furnished on more than one life. $50,000,000. \Vith advancing years and 
the possibility of failing health you gain 
the benefits of sound, efficient manage­
ment of your money ^vithout effort or 
personal anxiety for the remainder of 
your life (and for the life of your 
loved ones if you wish!). 
Both plans make provisions for ad­

ditions of principal during your Ufe for 
the building of a fund to be applied to 
an endowed scholarship, an endowed 
professorship or a perpetual memorial 
of your choosing in your name — or 
the names of your family or loved ones. 
The following descriptions of both investment plans and the table dealing with the gift portion per $1,000 in­vested are taken from the PORT­
;FOLIO OF PHILANTHROPY. A 
copy of this portfolio may be obtained 
by writing to: 
Assistant Director for Deferred Giving 
University of Notre Dame Foundation 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
LEWIS HALL DONOR—Mis. Frank J. Lewis, center, U Cluc:^;o chats with Rev. Theodore M. Hcsbu^h CSC, Unhrernty president, and Sr. Maiy Ann Ida BVIVI, president of Chicago's Mundelein College, after the dedication of Lewis Hall on the ND campus. Mrs. Lewis is the donor of the 143-iooai residence hall for ststeis study­ing for advanced degrees at ND. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 15 
Cover Story: 
^TT*5 
^^4*S(^JWft5S| 
|HP^ -r^: 

T
HE NOTRE DAME alumni pictured on our cover have added a bit more confusion to the already hectic world of the floor of the New York Stock Exchange: they are the only identical twdns in memor)' to serve as brokers simul­taneously. 
This distinction earned Kevin and Donald Reilly, 29, of Port Washington, Long Island, a recent feature story and photograph in The New York Times. 
Both Reillys are members of the Class of '58, finance majors, were guards on their freshman football team, are husky, brown-haired and freckled — but work for two different firms in the Exchange. 
Kevin bought his seat on the Exchange in September 1963, for $210,000, and is now one of eight floor \dce­
presidents for Bache & Co., Inc. 
Donald, although 20 minutes older than his brother, is the newcomer to Wall Street. He b^an trading as the rep­resentative of P. W. Brooks & Co., Inc., where he is a vice-president, in July, 1965, when his firm bought a seat for ,:$190,000. He made a delayed entrj' onto the E.xchange floor because of three years spent at Fordham University Law School. 
Although they now work for different firms, both Kev'in and Donald gained their stock experience at home and with their father's firm, J. F. Reilly & Co., Inc., an over­the-counter house. 
Alumni on NY Stock Exchange 
Twin Market Men 
Bachelor Donald lives at home in Port Washington \vith his parents and sister Michele. Ke\Tn is married and lives with his wife and two sons, Kevin, 3, and Brian, 2, a block away. 
Their "twin-ness" e.xtends through most every statistic, from their weights (193) to their golf handicaps (nine). 
But their identity is sometimes a little hard on their customers. Kevin explained that their identity was less confusing at school "because our friends could learn to tell us apart." 
The business world does not have time to learn any distinctions, however, and therefore one customer of Donald's got angry when 'T)onald" snubbed him in a restaurant. Of course it was Kevin, who didn't know the man. 
Since they have similar tastes in clothes, about the only distinguishing mark on the Exchange floor is their badge numbers: Kevin wears number 391 while Donald's badge number is 641. 
They have yet to transact a deal with one Reilly as ' seller and the other Reilly as buyer. But that day will undoubtedly come, they feel. 
By Michael Bascle '66 
A' 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, J965 
A
CENTURY is a long time no matter . how you look at it. Some say if you look at it under the aspect of eter­nity it is a short time. I suppose so. But most of us look at a century under the aspect of this tough old world. We see 
.. it through our human eyes with all the hurts and hatreds, \rith all the loves and laughter. So be it. 
The year 1865 is a date never to be forgotten. The War Between the States had come to a close. Bitter hatreds, senseless sorrow, unmarked graves, cropless fields, the scarred land of a maimed nation — this was Ameri­ca in 1865. It was Korea and Viet Cong; it was Bataan and East Berlin. The guns were different but the blood ran Just as red. Different bodies were broken; different hearts were hurt. 
In spite of the troubled times and tragedies of 1865, at Notre Dame there was a bright beginning. That year the young college graduated its first student of science. His name was John Cassidy and he came from Chelsea, Mich. Later young Cassidy became Doctor Cassidy and practiced medicine in South Bend. Since that June day of 1865 much has happened in science at 
, Notre Dame. The school went through its growing pains as all schools must. One hundred years later the College of Science proudly offered courses in departments of biology, chemistry, ge­olog)', mathematics, physics and pre­professional studies. Affiliated •with bi­ology is the Lobund Laboratory (Lo­faund means Laboratory of Bacteriology University of Notre Dame). Affiliated with the chemistry department is the Radiation Laboratory. The College of Science numbers a faculty of over 100 teachers, and all but a few have doc­torates. 
To speak of a department or college one should speak of the people in that department or college. Big money and large grants can clutter a building with material, but good men are needed to make the best use of what is at hand. Over the years Notre Dame has been blessed in having the right man at the right place at that moment in time. 
This is true for the entire University. Generous benefactors have seen a need and they proudly gave of their wealth. And no question about it, money is need­ed to help good men do the best job possible. Again, Notre Dame has been blessed. Proudly we salute in gratitude all who have helped and do help in any ^vay possible. 
The College of Science has had some 

Chalk Marks On a Cassock 
By Thomas J. O'DonneU CSC '41 
wonderful people do\vn through the years. To begin to single them out could be trouble — some names are bound to be missed, and only a journal that would read like a telephone boob could list them all. Therefore, I ask your kindness as I mention only some men from the College of Science who have done heroic service. 
Over the years I have often asked some of the "old-timers" from the com­munity of Holy Cross who was the best scientist we ever had. Without any hesitation four names ahvays occur . . . and in this order: Nieuwiand, Zahm, Kirsch and Wenninger. Each of these was a priest of Holy Cross. Each was not equally as good as the other. 
For those of you who believe in the stars or read horoscopes here is some­thing to think about. Father John Zahm \vas bom on June 11, 1851. On June 11 in 1936 Father Julius Nieuw­iand died. The birthday of Father Nieuwiand was February 14, 1878. On February 14, 1940 we buried Father Wenninger. The three of these men — as scientists — would, if they could re­ject any connection. Yet, as scientists, they would take a second look at the dates. I leave out Father Kirsch from this consideration for the very obvious reason that he was a much taller man. He was about six feet, three inches. The other priests were all short, five feet six, to five feet nine. 
Not much is written of Father Alex­ander Kirsch. He had a brother in the community and of his brother less is written. Alexander Kirsch was, for nearly forty years, the leader in bi-olo^cal studies at Notre Dame. He wrote a book called Mammalian Osteology. And when he taught anat­omy he diew, with chalk, the heart, arteries and kidneys right on his cas­sock. He was anticipating audio-visual or else the brother at the cleaning plant was a good friend. But that he was a great teacher there is no doubt. 
He never did get a doctor's degree but that was because the Provincial could not spare the man, and did not have the money, to let Father Kirsch have time off. 
During several summers he did re­search at Woods Hole. There he must have practiced his singing because each Lent on Holy Saturday the booming voice of Father Kirsch filled Sacred Heart Church. The change in the rubrics would have been to his liking. This would put the towering priest-scientist up by the altar in front of everyone as he would plunge the anatomy of the paschal candle into the waiting waters. 

It is strange what we recall about people who have died. The long hours in a lab, the long years of great work are glossed over or taken for granted. Forty years of long labor are remem­bered as chalk marks on a cassock and a booming voice on Holy Saturday. But that's the \vay it goes in this busy world. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 17 
News from the Law School 
By Thomas L. Shaffer 
Fort>--threc tliird-year students received their Bachelor of Laws degrees in ceremonies on th'e campus June 6. Michael C. Farrar, a native of Waterburj-, Conn, was top man in the graduating class and %vinner of the Hoynes Award: the award is given annually to the graduate who "has the best record in scholastic grades, application, deportment and achievement." It is given in honor of Col. William James Horaes '78, LL.D. '88, long-time dean of the Law School. 
The Farabaugh Prize, given in honor of the late Gallitzin A. Farabaugh of South Bend, for high scholarship in law, w-as a\varded to John A. Lucido of S t Louis, Mo. Mr. Lucido was editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer during the past year. 
The Law Week Au'ard, for the most satis­factory progress in the third year, was given to Douglas F. Spesia, of Joliet, 111. The Lawyers Title Award, for e-scellence in the law of real estate, was given to Femand 
N. Dutile, Sanford, Me. Mr. Farrar will be law clerk for Judge Frank B. Ellis, United States District Court, New Orleans, La_, during the coming year: Mr. Lucido is associated ^^^th Cra\'ath, Swaine & Moore of New York Git>'; Mr. Spesia will practice in Joliet. Mr. Dutile, who was employed under the recruitment program for honor law graduates, has been assigned to the Ci\il Rights Division of the Department of Justice. The A. Harold Weber Moot Court Awards were given to John H. Martin of Sacramento, Calif, and James J. Leonard Jr. of Prairie Village, Kan. The A. Harold Weber Awards for senior research papers were given to Ronald L. Sowers of She­boygan Falls, Wis., first place: and to Chal­mer P. .'^ckerman of Bridgman, Mich, and 
John T. MuK-ihill of Grand Rapids, Mich., second place. 
Notre Dame Law Association 
The Association held an election meeting during reunion weekend in June. Raj-mond 
J. Broderick '35 of Philadelphia is the new president; Joseph A. Tracj- '42 is first vice-president; Alphonse A. Sommer Jr. '48 of Cleveland, second \-ice-president; and Wil­liam F. Spalding '41 of Los .•\ngeles, third \-ice-president. James M. Wetzel '51L of Chicago is honorary president and immedi­ate past president. 
The Association's executive committee in­cludes Leo B. Ward '20L of Los Angeles, Martin Torbotg '32 '34L of Fort Wayne, Phillip J. Faccenda '51 of Chicago, Burton 
M. Greenberg '58L of St. Louis, and George 
B. Morris Jr. '39 '40L of Detroit. Messrs. Faccenda, Morris, Torborg and Ward are also new members of the Association's board of directors. 
The Student Law Association wU sponsor again this fall a coffee hour for alumni of the law school and their friends after each home football game. 

18 , Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 
New Student Officers 
Francis M. Gregory of Webster Groves, Mo., was elected editor-in-chief of the Notre Dame Lawyer for the coming year. Dennis 
L. Sunderhaus of Lima, Ohio was elected president of the Student Law Association. Samuel J. Bemardi of Highland Park, 111., was elected treasurer (president) of Grey's Inn. 
Notre Dame Moot Court 
John D. Gottlick of Chicago was elected director of the Moot Court for the coming year. Finalists, who will argue an appellate case before a mock session of the Supreme Court of the United States this fall, are: John J. Haugh of Lebanon, Mo., Joseph 
S. Maxwell of Glenside, Pa., Thomas J. McNally of Cowngton, Ky., and Robert A. Murphy of Lawrence, Mass. 
Faculty Notes 
Dean Joseph O'Afeara has been named to the executive committee of the National Citizens' Committee for Communit)' Rela­tions, which endeavors to act as a conciliat­ing force bet>veen contending factions in ci\-il rights disputes. His appointment •was announced by .Arthur Dean, New York at­torney and former U N negotiator in Korea, who is NCCCR ch^rman. 
Prof. G. Robert Blakey, who last year taught the courses in real property and family law and the third-year seminar in organized crime, will replace Assistant Dean Thomas F. Broden Jr. as teacher of the first-year course in criminal law this fall. Dean Broden -wiW continue to teach the courses in administrative law and juris­prudence. 
Dean Broden has been appointed con­sultant to the Office of Economic Oppor­tunit}-, in conjunction with the Office's pro­gram to pro\ide legal services to the poor. He attended, by invitation, a conference on law and povert>', co-sponsored by the OEO and by the Attorney General in Washington, 
D.C. in June. 
Professor Blakey testified before the House Judiciary Committee in May in support of • the Law Enforcement Assistance Act of 1965. He was one of seven witnesses sup­porting the legislation; the others included Attorney General Katzenbach, Mr. George O'Connor of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, Lt Robert D. Cutts of the National Conference of Police Associa­tions, and Representatives James C. Gor­man, Roy H. McVicker and James H. Scheuer. 
Prof. John T. Noonan Jr., whose book. 
Contraception: A History of the Teaching of the Catholic Theologians and Canonists, 
was published by the Har\-ard University Press this spring, has been awarded a Guggenheim fellowship to study matrimonial cases in the Church courts. He will con­duct his research in .American diocesan 
1965 
tribunals and in the Sacred Roman Rota in Rome. 
Prof. Noonan, who is editor of the Nat­ural Law Forum, was program chairman for the .American Society of Legal and Political Philosophy and presided at its spring meet­ing in Washington, D.C. where he was elected \-ice-president of the Sodet>' for the coming year. He also addressed groups at St. Paul's College and the Theological Col­lege of the Catholic Universit)- of America, both in Washington, D.C ; the Cana Con­ference of the .Archdiocese of Chicago;-the Episcopal Theological Seminar)- of the Southwest; and the Newman Club at the University of Texas. His subject in these addresses was the history of the Catholic doctrine on contraception. 
Prof. Bernard J. Ward attended a meet­ing of the Committee on Rules of Practice and Procedure of the Judicial Conference of the United States June 28 through July 1 in Washington, D.C. He is reporter for the committee's Ad\nsor)* Committee on Appel­late Rules, which has prepared uniJForm rules of appellate procedure for the 11 federal courts of appeal. 
Prof. Ward participated in a seminar in April in Tucson, Ariz, at a meeting of the Arizona Bar Association. The seminar was devoted to the proposed federal rules of appellate procedure. 
Prof. Thomas L. Shaffer -was given a fellow­ship award by the Ford Foundation to attend a month-long workshop for trusts teachers at the New York Universitj- School of Law in August. 
Alumni Notes 
Capt. Richard Beske '61L of East St. Louis, 111., completed a tour of duty as staff judge advocate for the United States -Air Force Securitj' Ser\-ice in Japan in June. He ivas separated from active duty at Tra\'is .Air Force Base, Calif. 
Judge William B. Lawless '44L of Buffalo, a member of the Law Advisor)* Council and former president of the Notre Dame I^aw Association, is co-author of one permanent volume and one temporary volume in the three-volume series. New York Pattern Jury Instructions (Civil). Judge Lawless is a member of the Committee on Pattern Jury Instructions of the Association of Supreme Court Justices. The instructions are being published by the La\vyers Cooperative Pub­lishing Company. 
William J. Harte '59L is associate editor of the Trial Lawyer's Guide and co-author of an article in its February number, "Pro­duction of Documents by Categories — a Legitimate Fishing Expedition." Mr. Harte, who practices in Chicago, was recent de­cisions editor of the Lawyer in 1958 and 1959. 
Robert Scott '48L has been elected to the Florida Bar Association House of Dele­gates. He practices in Fort Lauderdale. 
^ 
Radiation Center Established at ND 
A Radiation Chemistr)' Data Center has been established at the Univer­sity's Radiation Laboratorj', it was an­nounced recently by Prof. Milton Bur­ton, director of the campus research organization. ' 
The Center, which \\'ill serve as an international focal point for the collec­tion, storage, evaluation and dissemi­nation of radiation chemistr)' data, is being jointly sponsored by the U. S. Atomic Energ)' Commission and the National Bureau of Standards. 
Prof. Burton said the Center will be a part of the national standard refer­ence data program of the Bureau of Standards, thus coordinating data and activities in all fields of tlie physical sciences. 
The program will be organized by Dr. Albert Ross, associate research scientist at the Radiation Laborator)', and will consist of four parts: collec­tion and categorization of data; prepa­ration of critical reviews; publication of tables; and answers to specific queries. 
Mechanical Engineering Reunion Sclieduled 
Notre Dame's mechanical engi­neering department will hold a re­union dinner in conjunction with the Annual Meeting of the ASME to be held in Chicago, November 7-11. The dinner will be at Johnny Lattner's Restaurant (109 
W. Madison) at 5 pm on No­vember 10. 
All mechanical engineering graduates interested in attending may secure a reservation by no­tifying Dr. Edward \V. Jerger, mechanical engineering depart­ment head. 
Recognized as the foremost producer of specialists in the field of radiation chemistry, the University's Radiation Laborator)' is engaged in the most ex­tensive research in this field being un­dertaken on any campus. 
The nearby Computing Center will be used with its UNIVAC 1107 com­puter to expedite data storage and re­trieval. 
Program Initiated With Peru University 
The University has announced a three-year program in which it wiU as­sbt in the academic and administrative development of the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru. It is Notre Dame's first venture in inter-university coopera­tion involving a Latin American insti­tution. 
Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the University president, said a $577,700 Ford Foundation grant, to be admin­istered by the t>vo universities, will en­able the Lima institution "to develop its central administration, rebuild its curricular ofTerings, especially in the natural sciences, and establish an of­fice of university development." 
Shuster said that $226,900 of the grant will be given directly to the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru «-ith the balance of $350,800 to be ad­ministered by Notre Dame in under­writing the expenses of visiting experts, for exchange of professors and trainees, and for laboratory equipment, library resources and teachinfi: materials. 

Plans Under Way for Convention 
Jack Tarr's Grand Bahama Hotel in West End, Grand Bahamas, has been selected as the site for the 1966 International Convention to be held on April 29, 30 and May 1, 1966. Jack Tarr's was selected largely because of the great alumni demand to return after the tremendously successful convention there in 1963. 
As has been the format in past years, conventioneers will fly from Fort Lauderdale, West Palm Beach or Miami on Friday morning arriving at Jack Tarr's around noon for an entire weekend of golf, fishing, smmming, tennis, boating, native music and dancing. There will be hospitality refreshments to greet you on arri\'al and a delicious island luau on Friday evening. 
Saturday there will be golf, fishing and tennis tournaments with many prizes available for the rnen and the ladies; and on Saturday night, the Fort Lauderdale and West Palm Beach Alumni Clubs will hold their Universal Notre Dame Night banquet. Rep­resentatives from the University will be in attendance and will address the group. 
.•\ftcr Mass on Sunday morning, there will be an island brunch with all of the trimmings in preparation for the afternoon return flight to the U.S.A. 
These conventions have proved to be an unbeatable weekend of fun and relaxation for all concerned. As in the past you will live in lu.xur>- and enjoy every minute. Waving palms, the gentle surf and the beautiful island sunsets are there for all to enjoy along with the finest fishing a\-ailable, and recently added to the native culture have been two new Hong Kong beauties. Hi Lee and Wing Wong — cruising to a tiny cay nearby, each one in beautiful dress — red with embroidered golden Chinese dragons for good luck. Hi Lee means Beautiful Sea, and her sister. Wing Wong, translates into Splendid King. These t^vo beauties %vill permit you to e-xperience a new and beautiful romance as they sail to the nearby cay. Yes! They are two very beautiful junks. 
.\ special convention price is now being set and will be an­nounced in the vcr)- near future. Gather your friends and plan to spend the last weekend in April with them and a great many other alumni and their wives in the Bahamas. 
For further information on the entire convention package, just drop a postcard requesting such with your name and address clearly stated to Notre Dame Convention Headquarters, 100 East Las Olas Boulevard, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 19 
To Expect It Was Unfair 
By CharUe CaUahan '38 
An adN'ance on the football season \\'as asked for by the alumni office. However, the belief is tliat by the time this sees the light of day, the football season may be three or four weeks on its merry way. 
So, \%Titing in that spirit, the chances are that by now the quarterback situa­tion has been determined, and Coach Ara Parseghian may or may not still be wishing that John Huarte had had another year of eligibility. 
It ^x-as known that split end Jack Snow had no more eligibility' . . . but this may be solved in another year as his younger brother Paul is now a freshman. 
Face it! Last year was a miracle season brought about by the passing of Huarte and the pass-recei\Tng of Snow — plus the man'elous defensive work led by captain and middle line­backer Jim Carroll, who led the team in tackles-made. 
Maybe Coach Ara Pars^hian will 
ALUMNI MONOGRAM CLUB 
The National Notre Dame Monogram Club welcomes its alumni members who are attend­ing this year's home football games to meet after the games for an informal club reimion in the stadium's rifle room. Gate 15, Section 31. 

come up with another nuracle year. Going into the season, the team, the students and townspeople seemed to almost e.xpect it. ^^'hich, of course, was unfair. 
The attitude of the team could be gained by words of Captain Phil Sheri­dan, a senior, a tight end last yeair and right end this season (we now have the two-tight end attack), made at a preseason civic luncheon: "The mem­bers of the football team think they are the luckiest guys in the world to have Coach Parseghian and his staff as the Notre Dame coaches." 
However, 17 monogram ^vinners did return and most of them are included in the following lineup used in the initial campaign against California at 
Berkeley. 
FIRST OFFENSE 
Name Position Class Height Weigl 
Don Gmitter Bob Meeker Tom Regner George Goeddeke Dick Arrington Rudy Konieczny Capt. Phil Sheridan 
Bill Zloch Tom Schoen John Pergine Bill Wolski Nick Eddy Larry Conjar 
Alan Page Pete Duranko Kewn Hardy Harry Long Jim Lynch Ron Jeziorski Mike McGill Dave Martin Tom Longo Tony Carey Nick Rassas 
LE  Jr.  6-2  210  
LT  Sr.  6-2  235  
LG  Jr.  6-1  245  
C  Jr.  6-3  225  
 RG  Sr.  5-11  232  
 RT  So.  6-0  235  
 RE  Sr.  6-4  215  
QB  Sr.  6-3  190  
QB  So.  5-11  178  
QB  So.  6-0  190  
LH  Sr.  5-11  195  
RH  Jr­ 6-0  190  
FB  6-0  205  
FIRST DEFENSE  
LE  Jr.  6-5  230  
LT  Jr.  6-2  225  
RT  Jr.  6-5  270  
RE  Jr.  6-0  205  

LOLB  Jr.  6-1  215  
ILB  Jr.  5-10  205  
ILB  So.  6-2'  220  
ROLB  So.  6-0  200  
LH  Sr.  6-1  195  
RH  Sr.  6-0  190  
Saf.  Sr.  6-0  185  

Hometown 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Akron, Ohio JCenosha, Wis. Detroit, Mich. 
JErie, Pa. JFairview, Mass. -Jlutherford, N.J. 
..Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. .. Euclid, Ohio J^orristown, Pa. .Muskegon, Mich. Xafayette, Calif.­.Harrisburg, Pa. 
Canton, Ohio .Johnstown, Pa. Oakland, Calif. XaGrange, 111. iima, Ohio .....South Bend, Ind. .. JIammond, Ind. ..-Kansas City, Kan. Xyndhursti N.J. .... Chicago, 111. Winnetka, III. 

20 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
To Save It From the Junk 
By Frank WaUace '23 

Journalist^, Author, Past President of the Alumni 
Some years ago I received a note from Bob Fello\\'Sj producer of the mo­tion picture Knute Rockne All-Ameri­can: "Mrs. Rockne gave me what she described as a picture of Knute's high school football team, his favorite and one he always carried •ivith him. I treasure it so much that I fear it might get tossed out with the junk if some­thing should happen to me. I am send­ing it to you, knowing you wU see that it ^rill find a proper home." 
There is no mistaking the blazing eyes. It is the only picture of Rock I've seen with hair (he was about 13 at the time)- and it is indeed a jewel wliich \n\\ be precious to posterity. 
The incident made me wonder what would eventually happen to all the other souvenirs I had collected during 40 years of writing about sports in newspapers, magazines, books and mo­tion pictures; and of talking about sports on radio and television, at count­less dinners, smokers and rallies. So I was relieved last spring when Rev. Pliilip S. Moore CSC, academic as­sistant to the President, stopped me in the Main Building and said: "We are going to establbh a sports and games section in the new librar)'. Do you have any ideas?" 
"Father," I said, "I not only have ideas. I have cartons of material in my basement I haven't known what to do with." 
"Fine," he said, "you vn\l be our charter donor." 
After some correspondence with li­brarian Victor Schaefer it was decided that I should do this piece for the ALUMNUS after which the detailed solicitation would be taken over by Charhe Callahan, the various publicity channek of the University and, prob­ably, a continuing committee of people most actively concerned. 
Here, then, are the basics of the project which will, I'm sure, have im­mediate and enthusiastic support from all alumni, authentic and synthetic; from professional sports people and all people interested in sports because of the dignified recognition a great Uni­versity will have given to sports. 
The Idea . . . coming, logically, from Victor Schaefer, is to gather records and written and pictorial data on all sports, amateur and professional, so that when reporters, scholars or historians who want to research any segment of this broadening field, the best available sources \vi\\ be waiting at Notre Dame. Some showpieces will be on display but the basic collection will be pri\'ately located -ivith adequate security. 
The Material. . . perhaps the easiest way to answer this is to list the contri­butions I expect to eventually make: copies of my 14 published books about sports, with original manuscripts, ivork­ing notes and correspondence; about 20 other volumes, mostly autographed, by other -writers about sports history and personalities; about 50 copies of magazines, dating back to 1929, con­taining short stories, serials and articles, including all my Football Previews with contributed material — a history of a sort of college, football bet\veen 1937 and 1957; motion picture, radio and TV scripts; pictures, cartoons and paintings which illustrated magazine stories; programs, brochures and play­by-play press bo.x charts of famous games, including Ohio State-ND of 1935; a voluminous correspondence, including autographs from famous Americans now dead; and who kno\vs what else I may find? 

Association 
Alumni Contributions . . . Almost everybody who has attended Notre Dame probably has kept scrap books or pictures or correspondence. If you have one piece which you treasure, write Victor Schaefer. 
Special Groups . . . Among those 
• who might make sizeable, important contributions are: The many alumni professionally engaged in the -writing and broadcasting of sports; members of coaching staffs, in any spor^ at Notre Dame or elsewhere through the years; the roster of the Monogram Club, some of whom have also been in professional sports; nonathletic alumni (or their heirs) who have been close to sports; nonalumni who have previously adopted Notre Dame or who would like to take part in this significant de­velopment; coaches and sports writers who went to other colleges but have Notre Dame mementos and general memorabilia they would like to keep oflF that junk pile. 
By now you should have the general idea. Don't \vait to be asked — offer. I am enormously flattered to have been asked to kick off this significant project which is so typically Notre Dame. Ours has always been not only "a national but a people's university; we have that remarkable group of friends because Our Lady has opened her arms and made them welcome. 
Last August I visited the community cemetery where each man, including Sorin, has his himible cross. Just across the road ivas an athletic field and in its middle one man with a golf club, probably a seminarian. Sports have alivays been part of the air at Notre Dame, and that helps to explain Notre Dame sports. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
ND Football Schedules, 1966 thru 1970 
NOTE TO SPORTS FANS 
The ALUMNUS has not given complete coverage to Universit)' sports events and it occurs to the Editor that perhaps we have not given the coverage that alumni expect Obviously — and this has largely shaped our polic)'—^Notre Dame football is covered na­tionally in great detail. Basket­ball also shares quite a bit of the national interest and press. So we have not felt a need for the late news approach, or even the editorial treatment Naturally, tlie ALUMNUS shares the deep and widespread enthusiasms, hopes, admiration and respect that the University sports programs com­mand. They are a proper part of Notre Dame life, alumni as well as campus. If you have ideas on treatment in the magazine, let us know. JEA 
1966 
SEPT. 
24—^Purdue at Notre Dame 
OCT. 
. 1—Northwestern at Evanston 
8—Army at Notre Dame 15—North Carolina at Notre Dame 22—Oklahoma at Norman 29—^Navy at Philadelphia 
NOV. 
5—^Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 12—^Duke at Notre Dame 19—^Michigan State at Lansing 26—Southern California at Los An­
geles 
1967 
SEPT. 23—California at Notre Dame 30—^Purdue at Lafayette 
OCT. 
7—^lowa at Notre Dame 14—So. California at Notre Dame 21—Illinois (site undetermined) 28—Michigan State at Notre Dame 
NOV. 
4—^Navy at Notre Dame 11—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh 18—Georgia Tech at Atanta, Ga. 24—Miami at ]VIiami (Sat. night) 
1968 SEPT. 21—Oklahoma at Notre Dame 28—Purdue at Notre Dame 
OCT. 
5—Iowa at Iowa 
12—^Northwestern at Notre Dame 
19—Illinois (site undetermined) 
26—^Michigan State at Lansing 
NOV. 
2—^Navy at Philadelphia 
9—^Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 
16—Georgia Tech. at Notre Dame 
23—Open 
30—So. California at Los Angeles 
1969 
SEPT. 
20—^Northwestern at Notre Dame 
27-^Purdue at Lafayette, Ind. 
OCT. 
4—Michigan State at Notre Dame 11—Army in the East 18—So. California at Notre Dame 25—^Tulane at Notre Dame 
NOV. 
1—^Navy at Notre Dame 
8—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, Pa. 15—Georgia Tech. at Atlanta, Ga. 22—^Air Force Acad, at Notre Dame 
1970 SEPT. 
19—Northwestern at Evanston, lU. 
26—^Purdue at Notre Dame 
OCT. 
3—Michigan State at East Lansing 10—^Army at Notre Dame 17—Missouri at St. Louis, Mo. 24—Open 31—Navy at PhUadelphia, Pa. NOV. 
7—^Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 14—Georgia Tech. at Notre Dame 21—Louisiana State at Notre Dame 28—So. California at Los Angeles 
Notre Dame Band News . 

An Obligation Fulfilled 
By Jim Phillips, assistant band director 
The introduction of this column of news about the Notre Dame Bands follows as a projection of the January 1965 Alumni Workshop where it was decided that alumni tend more toward College and activity identities than the traditional Class structure. We hope to recognize both areas for some time to come. —J.E.A. 
Throughout the long history of the Notre Dame Band, there has developed an esprit de corps which has afforded its members one of the most pleasant and worthwhile experiences at Notre Dame. 
Because of just such a tradition, a responsibilit)' has been placed on the band administration to keep our alumni aware, not only of current band acti\'i­ties, but also of the acti\dties of past 

•band members. 
This we will attempt to do through this column in each issue of tlie Notre Dame ALUMNUS. We certainly hope this will fulfill our obligation — at least in part. 
Any undertaking such as this is dependent upon information received from our alumni and friends. So please do not hesitate to drop us a card, note or treatise on your present where­abouts and activities. All information m.ay be sent to the ND Band Office, Box 556, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
The University of Notre Dame con­cert band was named the 1965 Out­standing Catholic College Band in a recent national competition sponsored by the National Catholic Bandmasters' Association. The University band is under the direction of Robert F. O'Brien. 
Catholic college bands from through­out the countr)' submitted tapes of their performances to a panel of judges. 
The Notre Dame selections in the competition included on original piece for band entitled "Constructs," by Rev. Cari Hager CSC head of the ND music department. 
Alumni Advance 
Three Notre Dame alumni are cur­rently members of a group still un­heard of in many dioceses of the coun­tr)': a diocesan school board with true decision-making powers. 
Ser\'ing on the school board for the Fort AVajTie-South Bend (Ind.) diocese are Richard Rosenthal '54 of South Bend, Alden Lenhard '27 of Mish­

CS.C ANNIVERSARIES 1965 
GOLDEN JUBILEE 
Father Thomas A. Lahey Father Richard J. Collentine Father Peter P. Forrestal 
SILVER JUBILEE Father Walter J. Higgins Father Ehner G. Gross Father Mark J. Fitzgerald Father John J. Marek Father John C. Burke Father Alfred J. Neff Father Roman S. Ladewski Father Roland G. Simonitsch 
The band will perform at the Notre Dame-Army football game in Shea's Stadium, New York, October 9. A pep rally is planned before the game at Singer Stadium and another New York performance is slated for the Vatican Pavilion at the World's Fair. During their NYC stay the band will be staying at the Prince George Hotel. Final itinerary is not yet complete. 
Jim Fleisher, assistant director 1961­65, is now attending the Eastman School of Music, working on his doc­torate. 
Robert O'Brien, band director, has just completed a trip through the Southwestern states booking the band's tour for the coming school vear. 
 Unique Association 
awafca and Louis Niezer '29 of Fort ^Vayne. 
These alumni are three of the four laymen on the 17 member board (three -women expand the lay repre­sentation to seven). All members are rotated on a three-year membership. 
During their first regular meeting this spring the board leaped into action with proposals to streamline school ad­ministrations, a retirement plan for lay teachers, a uniform diocesan pay scale for lay teachers and modernized meth­ods for school financing. 
Rosenthal is president of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co. of South Bend. A former ND and professional basketball player, Dick has five chil­dren. 
Lenhard is director of public rela­tions for Wheelabrator Corp. The father of two grown daughters, Alden is a parish trustee at St. Joseph's Mishawaka. 
Niezer was recently named Knight of St. Gregory by Pope Paul VI. He is president of the Tokheim Corp. and an attorney. The father of seven chil­dren, he is president of the board of trustees of Our Sunday Visitor. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1963 23 
A Photoreview of 

1965 Universal Notre Dame Night 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Martin Reding (center), St. Joseph High, Chickasha, Okla. grad, is congratulated by Bishop Victor Reed (left) on being named Boy of the Year. Looking on at right is the Club's Man of the Year, R. N. Tinstman, Okla­homa City's city manager. 
FLINT—Rt Rev. Henry M. Mayotte, pas­tor of St. John Vianncy Church, Flint, re­ceives his plaque as Man of the Year from Victor E. George (left) and Ra}-mond J. Kelly Jr. 
ST. LOUIS—^More than 200 persons were present at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner of the St. Louis Club when Rev. John E. Walsh CSC addressed the group. Left to right are: D. Jerry McGlynn '60, incoming president; Man of the Year for 1965 Dr. William Gillespie '44; Fr. Walsh; Robert Harness, recipient of the Club's scholarship for the 1965 school year; and Cornelius T. Lane '57, outgoing president. 
i 
J 

NEW MEXICO—Mike McGuinness (cen­ter) was named Man of the Year by the ND Club of New Mexico in Universal Notre Dame Night ceremonies. Wth Mike are John Broderick (left), assistant dean of the University's Law School, and Gerald Lom­bardi of the Club. 
2# Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
BALTIMORE—Shown after the Club's UND Night dinner are, left to right: An­thony M. Milcto, Club president; Mrs. Frederick Rossini and Dr. Frederick Ros­sini, dean of the University's College of Science; Thomas R. Shine, past president of the Club; and Mrs. T. R. Shine. 
r 

^Directory of Clubs and Their President 
I^ '. _ .-^f ALABAMA John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda  Viila Dr., Rfgcnt Forest, Bfnnins­ ham, Ala. ALASK/\ John S. Hcllcnllial, '35, Box WI,  Ancllorogc, Alaska. ARIZONA PAofOLv—Arllmr L. Erra, '30, 5038 A'. 35tli Su, Phoenix, Ariz. Tucion—I. "Buddv" Goldman, '36, 3932 E. Poc, Tacsoo, Ariz. ARKANSAS Fori 5mi(/i—James A. Cilkcr. '48, 3715 Free Fcny Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. Little Rock—^Jamcs E. Xfadittan. *43,  Greater Stianti—George F. Hero, '52, 4(1 X.E. 75ili St., Miami, Fla. Xorth Florida — Albert H. Kessing, '40, 7245 Coligny Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. Palm Beach County—Daniel DoM-ney, Jr., *44, Suite 615, Harney BIdg., West Palm Beach, Fla. Fensacola—John L. McConnack, '49, P.O. Bo.t a, Pensacola, Fla. St. Petersburg-Tampa — .Mark E. -Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. GEORGIA Atlanta — Richard G. ilnrphy. '44, 677 Ponce de Leon Ave., N.E., Atlanta, Ga. HAWAII  IOWA Burlington—Joseph Ridge, '53, 1721 West Acres, Burlington, Iowa. Cedar Rapids—Jamts R. Ullrich, '57, 3647_ -Mt. Vernon Rd., Cedar lipids, Iowa. Des Moines — Joseph B. Jojce, '^, 4708 S.W. 16th St., Des Moines 15, Jowa. Dubuque—Rev. fVilliam Kunsch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Festina, Iowa. Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Siou.t City 4, loiv^t. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline) — Peter H. Lousberg, '56. 1808 Third Ave., Rock Island, III. KANSAS  Kalamazoo —• Frank G. Kersjes, '31 1202 South Westnedge Ave Kalamazoo, Mich. Lansing — Bernard J, Mayottc, '5{ 1130 Hitching PosI^ E. Lansing Mich. .Uonroe—Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 158 Rivcrview, Monroe, Mich. Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr. '58, 2211 Reneer St., Sluskegon Mich. Saginaw Valley — LawTcncc A. Smith '31. 1305 Avalon, Saginaw, Mich 48603 Top of Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney, '17, 416 East State St., Che­boygan, ^licb. MINNESOTA Tzvin Cities — John F. Clifford, '38, 984 Ashktnd Ave., St. Paul, Minn.  
I 4617 Crestivood, Little Rock, Ark.  CALIFORNIA iJaJt^rj/iWrf—Richard L. Bamctt, '56, 630 Golden State H«T., Bakersfield,  Harvey Lung, '53. 1603 Ulueo St., Kailua, Oahu, Hau-aii. IDAHO  Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topcka, Kansas. Jaffna—Albert J. .^fcLcan. '31, 1410 Highland Ave., Salina, Kan. iricAfw —Ted J. McDonald, '39, 11 Hillcrcst Ave., Wichita, Kan.  MISSISSIPPI William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss.  
Calif. Cen/ro;—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Sccrc­tan) , 3430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. Los Angeles—Robert L. Ger\'ais, '55, 3219 Rosewood Ave,, Los Angeles C6, CaliJ. Xortfiem—Edw-aixl E. ^fadican '54, 3528 Glcnbrook Dr., Oakland, CaliL Orange County—Thomas J. Getzing­er, '53, 2212 E. Wibhirc Ave., Fullerton, Calif. Sacramento—CHffortl if. Collins. *51, 117 Sempic Dr., ifathcr AFB, Calif. San Diego—^Marvin W. Rickling, '52, 9235 Fermi Ave., San Diego 23, Calif. San Fernando Valley—Robert Ifunter, '52. 8757 Juinilla Ave,, Northridge, Calif. San Gabriel Valley — William T. Huston. '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. lt'«(-C<-n(r<i/—E. Stuart Hilbert. '63, 1901 Halford, No. 103, Santa Clara, Calif. COLORADO Colorado Springs—Capt. ^falham M. Wakin. '53, Quarters No. WIOE, Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. Dtnvcr—Jamcs Robert Hilgcr, Jr.. *56, 3166 S. A'inc St., Englcxvood, Colo., 80110. CONNECTICUT Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-Goldrick. '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hart/ord, Conn. Fairfield County—^William ^fulrcnan, '37, 100 Tidemill Terr., FaJrJicld, Conn. Xaugatuck — Bomcnic A. Karducci, Jr., '52, 44 Beacon ifanor Rd., Naugatuck, Conn. New Haven—Br. Robert T. ^Va^lcr, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave, Hamden 17, Conn. DELAWARE Arthur F. DiSabatino, '59, 801 Bank of Delaware BIdg., Wilmington, Del. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Walter J. Biennan, '41, 700 Duke St., Alexandria, Va. FLORIDA Cra/rof —Robert J. PIcus, '57, 1037 Lancaster, Dr., Orlando, Fla. Fart LauJerJale — George A. Pittter­son, '58, 1020 N.E. 7th Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 333M  Francis IL Hicks, '49, 1180 Phelps Circle, Mountain Home, fdaho. Idaho Falls — James M. Bradv, '29, P.O. Bo.t 2I4«, Idaho FalU, Idaho. ILLINOIS Aurora — John G. Br^^n. '34, 111 Downer Place, Aurora, III. Central Illinois—Alhtrt O. Eck, Jr., '58, Old Jacksonville Rd., Spring­field, III. Chicago — Patrick J. Shannon. '48, 9430 S. Oakley Ave., Chicago 20, III. Drca/ur ~-Joseph McXamara, '61, 31 1st South Shore Ave., Decatur, III. Eastern Illinois — Thomas A. Jacobs, '37, 1520 N. Jackson St., Danville, III. FoAT I'offfj' —George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. yo/iV( — Robert i L WaUh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Jolict, III. McHenry County — Thomas J. Par­sley, '54, 377 West Co-stal Lake Ave., Crystal Lake, III. P^ono — George J. Best, XLD.. '38, 312 Miller Ave., Peoria Ilts., III. /fori/orrf—Albert Carroll. '22, 206 W. State St., Rockford, III. Rack River Valley —Paul L. Berret­tini, '56, 609 Crawford A%*e., DLxon, III. Southern Cook County — Robert rC. Calfarclli, "55, 2633-E Hawthorne Lane, Flossraoor, III. INTJIANA Calumet District — Robert J. Welsh, Jr.. '56, 7000 Chicago Ave., Gary, Ind. Eastern Indiana—^James F. Halligan, '32, 303 Wysor BIdg., Muncie, Ind. £/Har» —James D. ,\sh, '33, 1151 Stroitg Ave., Elkhart, Ind. Fort Wayne — Jerome F. Hipskind, •59. 2505 Stanford Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. Grant County •— Eugene A. Campa­nale. '50, 3001 Lincoln Blvd., Marion, Ind. Indianapolis—Richartl F. McNamara, '54, 1 Bennett Rd., Cannel, Ind. 46032. Michigan City—Leon A. Darets, '59. . Merchants National Bank, 515 Franklin St., Michigan City, Ind. .ft. Joseph fnf/ej^Edward J. Gray, '52, « 5 First Bank BIdg., South Bend, Ind. Terre Haute — Michael H. Kcams, '60. 1642 S. 5th St., Terre Haute, Ind.  KENTUCKY William J. Sherman, Jr., '58, 2710 Riedling Dr., Louisville, Ky. 40206 LOUISIANA Xeaj Orleans—Edwtird F. Sporl, Jr., '34, United Fruit Co. 321 St. Charles Ave., New Orleans, La. 70112 Northern Loutsiana-~Dr. Edwaiti R. Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shreveport, La. MAINE .Anthony E. Silra. '56, 224 Walnut St., South Portland, Maine. MARYLAND) Baltimore — Anthony ^L Mileto, '61, 5515 Daj-w-alt Ave,, Baltimore 6, Md. MASSACHUSETTS Berkshire County — Alfred J. Bzdula, '49, 8; Kittrcdgc Rd., Pitlsfield, ilis . UoJ/on — Robert L. Marr. '58, 92 Scotland St., Hingham, Mass. Pioneer Valley — Willbm A. Hurley, '28, 33 Ehn St., Springfield, Miss. 01103 MICHIGAN Battle Creek—^nvmond R. Allen, 40, 1009 Security Nauonal Bank BIdg., Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County'—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Nilcs, .Mich. Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Micli. Dearborn—William A. Dosinann. '53, 610 Betty Lane, Inkstcr, Mich. 48141 XJ^troi/—John C. Jfurray, '57, 1690 Bournemouth, Grosse Pointc 36, -Mich. F/inf — Alfred ifansour, '51, G-4295 Corunna Rd., Flint, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn. '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg. Ironwood, Mich. Grand Rapids and-Western Michigan —H. Edtt-ard Prein. '55. 4991 BIulT Dr., N.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. Hiawathaland — Donald T . Trotticr, '44, 60( Ludington St., Escanaba,  MISSOURI Kansas City —- Harold S. Solomon, '47, 1221 W. 71st Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. St. Louis—D. Jerry McGlynn, '60, 8322 Kingsbury, Clayton 5, >lo. MONTANA Bernard Graincy, '43, 906—1 1 Ave., Helena, Montana. NEBRASKA Omaha and Council Bluffs—Thomas. A. Walsh. Jr., '42, 9301 Dodge St., Omaha, Neb. NEW JERSEY Central — William A. Richardson, '55. 7 Orchard Rd., Kscataway, NJ . Nezo-Jersey Shore—Raymond i L Ticr­ncy, Jr., '54, 45 North Vale Ave., Little Silver, KJ. New Jersey—i^ma A. Sebold, Jr., '50. 507 BIoom£eId Ave., Moniclair, NJ . South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, 624 ainton Ave., Kaddonfield, N.J. NEW MEXICO Wiliiam B. Benedick, '5+, 4601 Haines Ave., Albuquerque, N.i L NEW YORK .•Ubany — Frank E. O'Brien. '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. Buffalo — Eugene P. O'Connor, '56, 133 Tuscaroro Rd., Buffalo, N.Y. 14220 Central — John G. Cuddy, Jr., '55, 164 Winding Way, Camillus, N.Y. 13031 Golden Circle—}xna F. JfcVay, '42, 49 Piirkway Lane, Bradfonl, Pa. Mid-Hudson I'alffp—Brian C, O'Neffl, '56, TitusvnT'e Road, Rt. No. 2, Poughkeepsie, ^.Y-Mohawk roHey—Michael J. McGuiri, '49, 171 Roosevelt Dr., Utica, N.Y. New York City—Gordon L. Forester, '47, 24 Waix) Ave., Westbury, N.Y. Rochester — Vincent E. Dolbrd, '39, 160 Kings Gate, North, Rochester 17, N.Y. Schenectady—^Robert J. Cichocki, '56, 272 Closson Rd., Scotia, N.Y.  
Tri-State — Joseph H. Harrison, '52, 500 S. Alvord, Evansi-ille, Ind.  .Mich. Syracuse—See "Central New York." Notre Dame Alumntts, September-October, 1965 23Jackson — Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612  
Webb St., Jackson, -Mich.  

Southern Tier — Fmnk F. O'Brien. '34. 201 Federation Bldg., Elmlra, N.Y. 
Triple CidVi—Thomas .A. MuscalcHo, '49. 8 >Iarilvn Ave, Binghainton. A'.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 
Donald J. Kelics-, '48, 1113 Wax-ridge Rd., Greensboro, X.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 
William Dancr, '53. J106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, X.D. 
OHIO 
.4tTon—James D. Dettling. '61, 230 Doirliesler Rd., AUron 13, Ohio. 
Canton — Edwin H. Obemiillcr, Jr.. '38, 4243 20th St., X.W. Canton. Oliio 44708 
Cincinnati—Cliarlcs J. Lima, Jr.. '58. 2541 RidgeclilT, Cincinnati 12, Ohio. Cleveland—RiixTt 1. Lally, '30. 2976 
Lincoln B1\TI., Clc\-cbnd 18, Oliio. 
Columbus—Micliael J. Hoffman, '33, 3389 Calumet, Columbus, Ohio 43214 
Daj/on—Peter J. Donahue. '52. 2076 Ridgeburj- Rd., Davion, Oliio 45440. Hamilton—Jerome A. Rj-an. '41, 353 
Soutli D St., Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfield — Clarence J. Kozak, ^3Q, 32 Church St., Bcl1e«lle, Ohio. 2<orthu:estem—Leo J. Hawk, '35, 623 Victor^', Lima, Ohio. 
OJio I'liJ/o^Robcrt R. Sincavich, '30, 134 Grant Ave., IVhecJing, W. Va. Sandusky — Ricliard G. Hohler. '47. 2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 132 
Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. To/erfo —Paul Xr. Krause, '54, 1724 
W. Bancroft, Toledo, Ohio. 
Youngstau:n—Micliael P. Lj-dcn, Jr.. "50, 4011 Cascade Dr., Youngstown. Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma City — Walter A. Xashert, Jr., '54. 2601 Drakcstonc, Okla­homa City, Okla. 

Tulss — William X. Sheehan, '49, 1931 S. Ex-anston, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON 
Phil R. ifeanev. '50, 223 Board of Trade Bldg., Porthnd, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. Grorgc \V. 
Katier, Ml. U.S. Bank Bldg. Johnstown, Pa. Erir — Richard T. McCormick '55, 4425 Cherry St., Eric, Pa. 
//armfeurg—Donald R. ^fcck, '50. 520 Park A\'e., New Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh Valley — Thomas E. Magill, 
'55, 821 S. Ott St., AUcntown, Pa. 
Sfonongahela Valley—Louis Vi. Aponc, '41, 321 Market St., Browns\^IIc, Pa. Philadelphia — William A. Whiteside, Jr., '3l, 7808 Cobdcn Rd., Lave­rock, Philadelphia 18, Pa. PittibuTch — Paul A. Hudak. '51. 705 Fairt-iew Ave., Pittsbursh 38. Pa. Scranton—Eari E. Holmes, Jr., '54, 105 Belmont Ave, Clarks Green, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Rajmond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Minere Bank. Wilkcs-Barrc, Pa. WilliamspoTt — Joseph F. Ono, Jr., '55, 822 Franklin St., Williamsport, Pa. RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Francis J. Conforti, *43, Education Funds. Inc.. 10 Dorrancc St., Providence, R-L 
SOUTH CAROLLVA 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Westwood, Charleston, S.C. 
TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga—Edward F. Da\Ts, '43, 506 Barrington, Signal Mountain, Tenn. 
golf, cocktails and then 

 has been announced for principal speaker. the coming fall, and many of the club plans are —BOB MARK '58, president ambitious ones. Among the bigger events arc a trip to New York for the ND-.\rmy football game October 9; a weekend jet trip to Miami for the Buffalo 





Clubs 

ND-Miami game November 27; and the Com­Coach ARA PARSEGHIAN and players JOHN munion Breakfast for alumni and sons December 12. HUARTE, JACK SNOW, and JI.\f CARROLL A Freshman Scnd-Off Party was held in the were featured guests at a Club dinner June 22 Akron Smith House at Cambridge on September 1 for while they were in town for the 1965 All-Amcrican 
JAMES DETTLIXG '61 has been installed as all the new ND freshmen and parents. Assistant Bowl Game. 

president of the Xotre Dame Club of Akron. Jim is a stockbroker with Baclic & Co. 
Also installed as officers were EDW.'UID BUTLER JR., vice-president;.WILLl.AM I. lAMMERS, sec­retary; and JOHX W. "J.-\CK" Li\XGE, treasurer. 

Baltimore 
Saturday, April 24, saw the Xotre Dame Club of Baltimore top "off the year with Universal Xotre Dame Xight. DR.. FREDERICK D. ROS-SIXI,,dean, of the. College of Science, was the principal speaker. j,\MES MUTSCHELLER was named Man of the Year for 1963. 
X*ew officers lor the coming year will be AX­THOXY M. MILETO '£1, president; GER.'\LD GR.\Y '62, rice-president; ROBERT KORYCKI '62, secretarj-; and RAYMOXD BEXDER '60, treasurer. 
A tentative program "of events has been planned for" tlic coming Club year, and include such high­lights as the Club's College Xight, the XD-Pitts­btirgh football game, -the XD-Xa\"y basketball night In .the Baltimore Civic Center, and the first Schol­arship Award program. 
—AXTHOXi' M. MILETO '61, president 

BUFFALO—^The Buffalo Club held a dinner for ND coaches Ara Parseghian and Johnny Ray and members of the ND football squad in the All-America game in Buffalo, with 175 

Boston 

attending. After the dinner the guests posed with club members and officers. Left to right 
.The Club began what' may become an annual 

they are: front row. Father Barrato, Club chaplain; John Raj^ Ara; Frank Kowalski, dinner 
affair: a stag XD Club of Boston Golf Outing. Members gathered July 22 at the Wollaston Golf 

chairman; and Charlie Callahan. Back row, J( ^ Atamian, Jim Carroll, Ed Rutkowski, Club in North Quincy for the afternoon round of Jack Snow, President Gene O'Connor, Clem Crow and Joe Marcin. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
.A schedule of events 

Memphis — Roy E. GilUa. '56, Peat Mar\v-ick Mitchell & Co., 2500 Sterick Bldg., Memphis, Tenn. 
Xashvilte — James C. Grccnwell, Jr., '54, Amico Steel Corp., 633 Thomp­son Lane, Nashville, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

Dallas —Fred A. Eicliom. '47, 2708 SoaihwBod Dr., Dallas, Texas 75233 El Paro—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 
Olivia Circle, El Paso, Tcxas­
Hoiulon—Robert F. Dillon, '48. 9418 Winsome Lane, Houston 42, Texas. Midland-Odessa — John L. O'Hern, 
'37, 1001 W. 23, Odessa, Texas. Rio Grande Kflf/rj—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 W. Elizabeth St., Brownsxille, Tc-xas-
San Antonio — S. Chilton Maverick, '61, 110 Auditorium Circle, San .•\ntonio, Texas. 
UTAH 

Don J. Roney. '38, 320 East Fourth, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
^^RGINIA 

Cliarlcs A. LaFratta. '47, 1301 Alsatia Dr., Richmond, Va. 
rWraiHrr—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 133 Cedar Ln., L>*nnharen, Va. 
WASHINGTON 
Spokane—Dr. D. Cumin Higgins, *49, 
S. 1103 Wall St., Spokane, Wash. 99203 
ir«/ern — Alex S._ Toth. '49. 4327 Second Ave, X.E., Seattle 5. Wash. 
W'EST VIRGINIA 
Cyril M. Reich. '39, 903 S. Drew St., St. Albans, W.Va. 
Central — John D. Julian. '40, P.O. BDX 2063, Ckirksbars, W.Va. 
WISCONSIN 
Fox River Valley—Robert J. Stmkins. '56. 400 S. Douglas, Appleton, Wise. 54912 
Gr<-en Boj^Dr. Daniel W. Shea, '48. 718 E. Cass St., Green Bay, Wise. La Crosse — Duanc D. Hammes, '56, 3111 S. Losey, La Crosse, Wise. iW^rriH—Augustus H. Stangc. '27, 102 
S. Prospect St., Merrill, Wise. 
Milwaukee—^Jolin A. Sclilocccl, '54, 4483 X. Larkin St., Milwaukee, Wise 
Northwest Wisconsin — Ben M. Siri­
anni, Jr.. '60, 2719 Keith St., Eau Claire, Wise. 54701 
South Central — Bernard S. MLxtacki. '50, 6303 Sylran Ln., Madison. Wise 53716. 
AVYOMING 
Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Uengaty India—Re\-. John W. Kane. C.S.C., '24, Moreau House. 28 Ziii­dabafiar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Cliarest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. Chile — Rev. Francis A. Piovcnzano. 
C.S.C.. '42, St. George's College, .Avcn, Pedro de Valdivia 1423, San­tiago, Chile. Manila — LawTencc J. Gotuaco, '54, 
P.O. Box 1152, Manila, Philippines. 
Mexico City—Tclmo De Landcro, '37. Eugcnio Sue Xo. 220, Me.xico City. Mexico. 
Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Box 3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. Peru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. 
Puerto Rico — Paul McManus, '34, (Vicc-Pres.), Calle McKinley 666, Sliramar, Puerto Rico. 
Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34, (Secretary), Palazzo Brancaccio, Largo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy. 
Tokyo—Rev. Peter T. Moriwaki. S.J., '63. Sophia University 7. Kiocho, Chiyodak, Tokj-o, Japan. 

 dinner and prize-awarding. Public Rcbtions Director JIM GIBBONS was 
Big plans are undcnvay for a jct trip down to New York City for tlic XD-x\ rmy football game Proceeds in excess of expenses will be added to the CIub*s scholarship fund. 


Central Florida 
The ND Club of Central Florida elected new officers for the coming Club vcar. They arc: BOB PLEUS '57, president; G. RUSSELL PIERSOX '&4, vice-president; J. R. "BOB" SM^TH '55, secre­tary-; and JOHN S. "JACK" BOWEX JR. *45, treasurer. 
—BOB SMYTH '55, secretary 

Central Illinois 
Xcw officers have been named for the XD Clnb of Central Illinois. Tlicy are ALBERT O. ECK JR. '58, president; DR. ROBERT A. XACHTWEY '34, \-icc-president; JIM MORRIS '58, secrctar\-; and GEORGE \\\ DAILEY *5G, treasurer. 


Central New Jersey 
Ah PERRIXE '41 has left us recently. He's now Xalional Campaign Director Jor the Mental Health Assn. All XD men in thb area join mc in wishing Al the best in his new work. His de­voted ser\*icc to Xotrc Dame Is well recognized from Fr. Hcsburgli on down and much of our fund-raising success Is due to the .AL PERRIXES who gave so unstintingly of their time. 
HARRY DURKIX is now a married man after 

7 sucli a long bachelorhood. His mom and dad honored him at an open house in their Belmar home June 5 .. . his lovely \Wfc is from out Tucson way. 
ART ARMENTO '61 of Alpine has the luckiest brother at XD . . . young ED ARMEXTO '65 was picked as official chaperone for the school to accompany other seniors to Bermuda during semes­ter break . . . how* times have changed. 
VIN'CE COMMISA *43 is Asst US Attorney in Xe^vark. 
Xew Jersey boasts a number of coaches and teachers In this area: FRAXK PLATT '42 is one of Xew Jersey's most successful basketball coaches after a vcr>' fine start in Western Pennsylvania. Frank coaches Tcnafly High School which is per­ennially a power in county circles . . . he's also an outstanding teacher there. FRAXK GARGIULO '61 is also coaching and teaching in St. Joseph's High School in West Xew York. . . . Frank will soon be a head coach in one of the local schools. TOM LIGGIO '62 just finished his two-year Army stint and is now working locally. CHUCK SCRI­VAXICH '61 from Rutherford, one of the finest baseball players ever to come out of Xew Jersey, is now coaching and teaching in Mont\'aIe, X.J. The school is St. Joseph's DJoccsan Scliool, 
ROBERT ST.ACK '41 is leaving us for Toledo, Ohio. Bob, originally from Cleveland, will be as­suming a new position with his firm there. BILL SCULLY '43 is from Tenafly and we sec each other often, what with our daughters being In the same class, scout troop, etc. JIM McGOLDRICK '39 u*as having dinner with his lovely wife at the Clinton Inn In Tenafly recently when I ran into him. . . . Jim looks as trim and fit as he did when he turned over chc shillelagh to JOHXXY KELLY '40. .. . It is now almost 27 years since Ed SuIIi\*an wrote that now-famous article in the XY Daily Xews about Jim and his team­mates when they went out to Southern California and lost to the Trojans .. . he told about what a fine group of men they were who, even though they lost a hcartbreakcr, were still gentlemen in every sense. The same can be said, no doubt, of another group of boys who more recently lost a hcartbreakcr. 
PETE LUSARDI '48 had JOHX HUARTE '65 and PAUL HORXUXG '57 at the Schaefer Pavilion in the XY World's Fair recently as part of a pro­motional campaign. 
JOE BYRXE III and BILL WALDRO.V are stalwarts of the First Friday Luncheon Club of Essex County in Xewark. .. . I manage to see them monthly. 

BOB TAXZOLA '64 is now with General Motors Overseas Corp. and working toward his master's degree . . . living right nearby in Tcnafly is our oldest living alumnus and Monogram winner, SIMOX O'BRIEN '08. Simon was a lineman then and is nou- retired after a long successful tenure as a teacher in Xew York. 
Two other outstanding young graduates arc from this well-knowii town of Tcnafly. . . . JACK EXGLER '60 and BOB EXGLER '63. Jack is studying for the priesthood as an Orator>- father and Bob is giving a year of his life as a lay apos­tolate in Colorado. 
DALLAS—Man of the Year Phil North *39 (front row, center) ats with club officers and main speaker Rev. Theodore AL Hesburgh CSC, University president, after the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the Dallas Club. Left to right arc: (front row) Jim Simmons '32; Fr. Hesburgh; Phil North; Walt Fleming '40; Ed Haggar *38; (back row) Sam Wmg '44; Gene Kcrvin ^58, new vice-president; Fred Fichom '44, new president; Ed Fleming '63, new secretary; Bob Williams '59, new treasurer; John Rogers '55, new vice-president; 
and Warren Higgins '52, past president. were named to the board of directors. 
The Club's Universal Xotrc Dame Xight dinner was held in West Orange April 27. Bill Elias, Xa\-y football coach was guest speaker along with Rev. John E. Walsh CSC. 
— .-VNGE AMATO '42, secretary 


Chicago 
Xotrc Dame's golfing football coacli, ARA PAR­SEGHIAX, w*3S honored guest at the August 2 golf outing of the XD Club of Chicago. 
Ara showed the Chicago duffers around the course and then gave them some comments on what to look for in football this fall at the prize-aw*arding dinner that evening. 
Games and other entertainment—including a show­ing of "The 1964 Highlights"—were on hand for the non-golfers. 


Cincinnati 

The cool and elegant en\-ironment of the Wiede­mann Penthouse Garden provided the scene for the X'otrc Dame Club of Cincinnati annual elections in June. The fottouing officers WCTC elected: President CHUCK LIMA; Vice-President BOB FROLICHER; Secretary BILL BURKE; and Treasurer JACK MULVIHILL. Following the elections a rousing applause was given outgoing president PAUL KEL­
 Haggar, Higgins, Simmons, Wing and Fleming 
LEY for his successful administration of the Club over the past year. 
Also at this meeting a special X'otrc Dame plaque was presented to .ALBERT CASTELLIXI, recently retired member of the University Board of Trustees. He has loyally served the University in many ca­pacities for a number of years and his award was-richly dcser\'cd. 
The annual golf outing was held this year on July 21 at Hyde Park Country Club. REES LABAR chairmanncd the event. Twenty-seven alumni played golf while 41 were in attendance for dinner. BOB McCAFFERT^' xx-as low gn ^ and JACK "PIVOT'* MULVIHILL was high. Many prizes were awarded on the Blind Bogey System. BOB BURKE gave his usual spiritual address while guest speaker for the evening, assistant basketball coach LARRY STAV­ERMAX, gave us a rundown on the upcoming foot­ball and basketball seasons. 
The picnic which the alumnt gives each year for the incoming freshmen and their fathers was held on September 7 at Maple Ridge Lodge. Fifteen new-freshmen and their fathers were our guests for tbc' afternoon softball game followed by a steak dinner and the showing of the highlights of the 1964 foot^ ball season in the evening. 
Plans are now being formulated by chainnan JOHX COTTIXGHAM for the Christmas dance which will be held again this year at the Lookout 
DENVER—At the Denver Club's Universal Notre Dame Night Denver Mayor Tmn Gnr­rigan '41 (second from left) congratulates ND Coach Ttnn P^gna, who was pnncipal speaker for the evening. Looking on are Club President Jim Hii^er '56 and M^r. Gem^ 
R. Evans '44, assistant chancellor for the Denver diocese and Club «-liapl»m 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 27­
House. Last year's dance ^*"as a howling success and tills year's should be c\'cn better with more room made avsllablc by tlic use of additional bar space. —WILU.\M E. BURKE, secretary­
Dallas-F=orf Worth 
Oi'cr 200 alumni and friends in the Dallas-Fort 
Worth area honored FATHER HESBURGH, CSC, 
president of tlie University, as the main speaker for 
the Universal Notre Dame Xight festivities held at 
the Dallas Club on May 3. LANK SMITH, presi­
dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Association inlro­
duccd Fr. Hesburgh. 
PHIL NORTH '39, an alumnus living in Fort 
Worth, u-as presented the Notre Dame Man of the 
Year award for his leadership and dedication to the 
ideals of Notre Dame. Tlic Most Rev. THOM-AS 
GORMAN, Bishop of Dallas-Fort Worth Diocese 
and last year's recipient of the award, presided at 
the presentation. W.-\RREK HIGGINS '52, outgoing 
president, announced the new officers for the coming 
year to be: FRED EICHORN '44, president; GENE 
KERVIN '58 and JOHN ROGERS, \-icc.presidcnts; 
BOB WILLL\MS '59, treasurer, and ED FLEMI.VG 
'63, secretary. Also named to the Club's Board of 
Dirccton were ED HAGGAR '38, WARREN HIG­
GINS '52, JIM SIMMONS '32, S.\M WING, '44, 
and WALTER FLEMING '40. 
Tlic wives of the alumni held tiie first meeting of the newly reorganized auxiliar\' on June 29 at the Metropolitan Room in Dallas, as thc>' were treated to brunch by the Club. Officers' wives xvcre named to ser\"e as officers of the Notre Dame Wives' Club. 
On July 18 the Club held its "Summer Splash Party" at the Inn of Sec Flags In the Acapulco Suite. An afternoon w'os spent with bridge, swimming and sampling the chef's table of hors d'oeuvTcs. 
— ED FLEMING '63, secretary 
Dearborn 
The most noteworthy news in Dearborn is the election of new Club officers: BILL DOSM.A.NN '53, president; CHARLIE KITZ '58, \-icc-presIdent; and JIM KLINK '53, secrctar>'-ircasurcr. Tlirce new members of the Board of Directors xvcrc named: JOE BYRNE, DON MULL.ANEY and BILL DECRICK. 
It looks as though we will definitely have to initiate a program of prayer instruction for our officers as tlie new President, in the tradition es­tablished by RAY DeFAUW, added a tew new-twists to the Hail Mar>- at the opening of a board meeting. 
The last two general meetings were held at the homes of JOE BYRNE and BILL DECRICK and once again fellowship was sustained until sunrise. Those attending the meetings were especially grati­fied to learn tliat ALBERTO SAL.^ZAR has re­ceived an exit visa from Cuba and permission to immigrate with his family to Canada. Through the efforts of chairman DON MULLANEY enough con­tributions have been received to send .-Mberto's fam­ily ariplane tickets for their flight to Canada, and a little nest egg to begin their new life after they arrive. • For tins we are indebted to the generosity of megibers of the Detroit Club, the Chicago Club, and Class of 1932 and the Dearborn Club. In addi­tion, we have recently learned that DICK KING has made cmplojTncnt arrangements for .Alberto. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held this year at the Continental Congress Inn with Fr. VTiU liam Kienzle, editor of the Detroit Archdiocesan 
nev'spaper. The Michigan Catholic, as the 
guest speaker. Fr. Kienzle spoke on "TTie Emerging Layman in the Church" and afterward all of us had a much better knowledge of our new and more meaningful responsibilities in the Church. 
New member TOM GRACE received some dis­tinction locally by beating some of^thc state's lop golfers in winning tlic Horton Smith Memorial championship. There was no distinction for yours truly, however, as he managed to dislocate his right shoulder playing softball. The shoulder was painful enough, but didn't hurt quite as much as the admonition, *'You'rc not as voung as vou used to be" from ED CA^\'I, JERRY KELLY and JERRY SARB. 
—CHARLIE "LEFTY" KITZ '58, \-ice-prcsident 
Decatur, III. 
Having enjoyed two consecutive, hut small (JOHN DUNN. NICK NEIERS, P.\T NOLAN, JERRY McNAAfARA and self) monthly luncheons, the Notre Dame Club of Decatur, III., opened a swing­ing summer season. Seventeen sturdy sons chal­lenged 14 holes of the Countr>' Club of Decatur golf course until they were rained out and "forced" . inside for the cocktails and rare beef dinner. 
JAY CALDWELL, a new member, and PAT 

CENTRAL FLORIDA—Members of the Central Florida ND Club and their families enjoy a club outing to the beach house of the J. Robert Smyth family. The aliunni, wives and kids enjoyed the sun, sand and surf overlooking Cape Kennedy. 
NOL.AN tied for low score honors, barely escaping the onrush of FR. KEVIN SULLIVAN. JOHN BUSS and AL LANDOLT. FR. JOHN STEWART came up from Springfield for the festivities. We're hoping to get more alumni from Springfield, Clinton, ^Vappela, Taylor\ilIc and Tuscola to share a few hours with us one of these years, 
— STEPHE.N G. GRALIKER, secretary-
Denver 
Coacli TOM PAGNA spoke at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the ND Club of Denver and brought down the house. Tom u'as featured shortly thereafter in AVALTER KR.\NZ's column in the 
Denver Catholic Register. 
Newly elected Club officers were installed. They are: JIM HILGER '56, president; PAT McMAHO.N '48, \ice-prcsldent; CHUCK BAIER '51, trcasprer; and JACK DELINE *61, secretary. 
GEORGE HILL of Machcbeuf High School, son of Mr. and Mrs. Vincent Hill, received the Club's scholarship. 
GERRY SMITH was named Man of the Year for 
1965. 
The summer family picnic was held July 25 with a large crowd turning out at the Crcstmoor Club. Activities were planned for all ages, and all ages turned out, to enjoy them. 
Past President JIM COUGHLIN has been named the new scholarship and admissions chairman. The Club also has a new cliaplain: Msgr. GEORGE EVANS. 
Des Moines 
The Notre Dame Club of Des Moines held Uni­versal Notre Dame Night ceremonies on April 24. Track Coadi .\LEX WII^ON and the Notre Dame track team were our guests at dinner. 
Rev. LAAVRENCE G. BROESTL, CSC, was the featured speaker of the evening. 
Alumni present included: CARLETON D. BEH JR.. ROBERT BEH, JOSEPH BISIGNANO, JAMES BOESEN, WILLIAM FULTZ, PAUL EIDE, WIL­FRED GILL, JAMES HAMMER, JOSEPH JOYCE, NICHOL.AS LAMBERTO, FRED NESBIT and DR. ED\VARD POSNER JR. 
— JOSEPH A. BISIGNANO, secretary 
Detroit 
Head coach ARA PARSEGHIAN and University Executive Vice-President Rev. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CSC, were the featured speakers at Detroit's an­nual Golf Stag Day dinner following the rounds of golf at ^feadowbrook Country Club, July 20. 
Also featured on the program \«'as the rafHe for two all-e.'cpenscs-paid trips for two to New York to sec the ND-Army football game and catch the last weekend of the World's Fair. 
The Club is also planning a weekend trip for those members who want to pay their own way. 

Plans arc already underxv-ay for the other annual activities of the Club, especially the Communion Breakfast in December and the annual Retreat in Lent. 
— JACK MURR.\Y, president 

Elkhart 
Tile Annual Universal Notre Dame Night ob­servance of the Elkhart County Notre Dame Club was held on May 5. Tlie Hotel Elkhart, the one-night home of visiting opponents, was the site of this gathering. Tlic evening began u-ilh a social hour and dinner. VINCE DOYLE, prominent area sports­caster, acted as toastmastcr for the program. The program included selections by members of the Notre Dame Glee Club and film highlights of the 19M season. 
Chairman of the event was JOHN R. GILDEA, assisted by ifr. and Mrs. A. J. SPAHN, Jtr. and MIS . DAN ^^'VNYKOSKI and Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE METCALF. 
Officers elected for the ensuing year are JrVMES ASH, President; DAN W-YNYKOSKI, Vice-Presi­dent; JOHN R. GILDEA, Secretary-; and JAMES H.\YES, Treasurer. 
— JOHN GILDE.\, sccretarj-

Erie, Pa. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Erie held their annual summer picnic On July lOlh. The ND s^'>"Pt as in the past, honored all of the incoming fresh­men. The affair was held at the Leo Brugger sum­mer home. RICH ("55) and JOHN ('33) McCOR-XHCK were the co-cliairmen for the afTair and did a splendid Job. 
Among those who attended the picnic were Messrs. & Mmes. WILLIAM AMANN, HANK i\.\GEL­OTTI and son Dick, J.AMES ARRI.VGTON, JO­SEPH BARBER '36, ROBERT BARBER '40, THOMAS BATES '60, LEG BRUGGER '34, LEG BRUGGER JR. '61, JOSEPH BLAKE '37, DON­ALD BUSECK '30, JACK DAUT, HOWARD ES­SICK '41, JIM EHRMAN '61, THOMAS GAL­LAGHER '55, WILLIAM GRANT '45, PHILIP HAGGERTY '53. 
EDWARD KERN '36, HERBERT KERN '34, NORBERT LEWIS, WALTER LUEDTKE, ROB­ERT LUKES '49, JI.M .MAHONEY '31, JOHN McCORMICK Honorary '17, JOHN McCORMICK JR. '53, TIM McCORSIICK '55, RICH.-\RD Mc­CORMICK '35, Judge & Mrs. JAMES OUTER and son Jim '64, ROBERT ROCHE, LEWIS SHIGLENO '49, JOSEPH STADLER '33, LAW­RENCE STADLER '29, ROBERT WESCHLER, CHARLES WITTMANN '32, JOH.N' YOUNG '51, ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI '52 and DANIEL O'BRIEN '38. 
Also: BRUCE BIGWOOD '62, RICH ARRING­TON, Fr. JOSEPH HIPP, LEO &\RNEY '30, JERRY EHRMAN, ^^KE McCORMICK '61, JOHN 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October^ 1965 
PALMISANO '55, ROX VOMERO '63 and DAN O'BRIEN, JR., one of the incoming freshmen. 
— LEO BRUGGER JR. '61, sccrctar>­
Evansville 
Tlic Evansville Club met at the Eransvillc Coun­
tr>* Chib for celebration of Universal Notre Dame 
Night April 27. Special recognition was given to 
Marie and JIM McQUAID of Vincennes, Ind., for 
their faithful attendance at all Chib events. 
Other out-of-town guests included the JOHN 
HENNEBURGERs of Mt. Carracl, 111.; the JOHN 
HUBERs of Henderson, Ky.; and the HOMER 
BARTONs of Owcnsboro, Ky. 
AL HARDING, past secretary, read a humorous 
and nostalgic letter about campus personalities and 
events that had been written by Prof. Paul Conwav. 
Fr. TERRENCE GERKEN OSB, chaplain of the 
Ex-ansvillc College Newman Club in formation, was 
the principal speaker of the evening. He cited the 
needs for and problems of such an organization. 
Retiring president Patrick O'DanJcI announced the new chib officers for the coming Club year. They are: JOE HARRISON, president; AL HARDING, vice-president and treasurer; and DON HALLER, secretary. A stag party will lead off a long list of events scheduled for the coming year. 
— DON HALLER, secretary 
Fairfield County (Conn.) 
Notre Dame .\lumni of Fairfield County, Conn., commemorated Universal Notre Dame Night with a late afternoon cocktail party at the Red Coach Grill in Darien on Sunday, .-Xpril 25th. 
Our campus representative and guest speaker for liic program was JIM ARMSTRONG '25, national alumni secretar\', who gave an enlightening and entertaining resume of the 1965 campus scene. BILL CUDDY '52 of the national alumni board was a special guest and assisted in our arrangements. 
Among those who were in charge of preparations for this affair were: ED BARRETT '56, JOHN C.\S.\GRANDE '59, ED CROTTY '37, GORDON DiRENZO »56, JACK LAMBERT '52, LLOYD FORRESTAL '52, and BOB GRIFFIN '48. 
Others in attendance, along with their happy counterparts, were: BILL GRIFFIN '48, LLOYD ST.\UDER '57, NICK L.\NESE '37, FRANK McGEE '33. HARRY NORRIS '40, D.-^NHAN VACC.\RELLA '57, BILL HARRINGTON '48, JOHN FL.VVEY '52, ROY JANN '48, DICK SC.\NNELL '38, PETE HEARDEN '37, J.\CK L.\.MBERT '52, GENE SCHAFFER '49, ANDY McELROY '44, BOB MORRILL '43, JOHN SCHUMACHER '51, REDMOND TONER '45, and JOHN \VALSH '38. 
Plans arc now in the works for a smoker and sports night to be held in late September. This event will provide an opportunity for an election of officers and the re-organization of the Fairfield County Club. Newcomers to the area who arc in­terested in these future developments are asked to contact: Dr. Gordon J. DiRcnzo, 1971 Bronson Road, Fairfield, Conn. 
Flint 
The Rt. Rev. Msgr. HENRY M. MAYOTTE, a Roman Catholic priest for 40 years, was honored Tuesday night as Flint's Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Flint. 
He was given a plaque before 170 persons at the Club's 10th dinner dance at the Flint Golf Club. 
Msgr. Mayottc, pastor of St. John Vianney Church, admitted he was told in advance that he would be presented the "surprise" a^vard. 
"I'm surprised it took you so long to bestow it on me—," he started, and the rest of the sentence was lost in laughter and applause, as he received the award from the event's co-chairmen, RAY­MOND J. KELLY JR. and VICTOR E. GEORGE. 
He said Kelly and George told him of plans for the award and "in these days of emerging laymen, no one dares to contradict laymen." 
Kelly called Msgr. Mayotte "a builder and great leader, but before being a great leader, he is also a great priest." 
A native of Menominee, Msgr. Mayotte grew up in Detroit, where he was ordained February 15, 1925. 
He was assistant at St. Michael Catholic Church from 1925 to 1928, pastor at St. John's in Davison from 1928 to 1939 and was then assigned to St. Agnes as pastor. • -Ho-succecdcd St. John Vianney's first pastor, the Rev. William J. Flanagan, in liM4 and ^\'as named a monsignor in June 1954. Several moths earlier he had been appointed dean of the Flint area Catholic clergy. 
TIic Notre Dame Club of Flint has selected a Man of the Year since 1954, with the exception of 
1962, and last year named two men. PAUL C. 
HUGHES, a real estate broker, and ROBERT J. 
MasDONALD, an attorney. 
The others, starting in 1954, arc DR. DAN H. SHEER^VN, a physician; FRxVNK J. MANLEY, director of the Mott Foundation; ANTHO.VY G. DeLORENZO, a vice president of General Motors; HUBERT L. CURTIS, AG works manager; Msgr. EARL V. SHERID.\.V, pastor of St. Michael; ARCHIE R. C/VMPBELL, manager of the Elks Club; JACK PR.\TT, football-basketball coach of St. Matthew Catholic High School, and OSMUND *'OZZ" KELLY, former mavor of Flint. 
DR. L.\U'RENCE H. BALDI.VGER, associate dean of Notre Dame's College of Science, tiscd slides to illustrate a talk on science at the University. This is the centennial year of the first science program at Notre Dame. LeROY E. SUTTON was master of ceremonies. 
The committee for the May 25 Universal Notre Dame Night 1965, was composed of: VIC GEORGE, DICK CRAMER, BILL MINARDO, R.\Y KELLY, PAUL HUGHES and FRED M.\NSOUR. Co-chairmen were Vic George and Ray Kelly. 
Fort Lauderdale 
Tliis year's Notre Dame Club Convention in Nassau was the usual enjoj-able w^;ekcnd It alu'a>'5 is. BOB McDONOUGH '52 and HUGH .MALONEY deser\-e a special vote of thanks, as docs HANK URUSKI, father of .VNDREW URUSKI '68, who did a Trojan job for us In Nassau the day before everj'one else arrived. Some of those In attendance were D.VN DOWNEY '44 (winner of this year's low gross golf score), and wife Rosemarv*, Judv and TO.M -MAUS '57, DON DORINI '53 and wife Jcane, GEORGE PATTERSON L-'58, another golf trophy winner this year, Catherine and CHARLIE QUINN '34 and Jane and BILL MAUS '53. 
JIM MOTTSETT '64 is handling the arrangements for this year's golf outing at the Oak Ridge Country Club on June 23 and it looks like last ycar'-s trophy winner BOB BLAIKIE '56, will have a real battle on his hands keeping It two years in a row. 
We are actively looking fonvard to seeing old friends and classmates at the upcoming Notre Dame-Miami game on November 27th. TOM WALKER '42 and TOM SULLIVAN '48 arc in charge of arrangements and will be ably assisted by CHUCK OLWELL. This year's package will include a buffet with cocktails at the Governors Club Hotel in Ft. X^udcrdale, game ticket, and transportation to and from the Orange Bowl. We are also considering sending busses from the game to the vtctary dance at the Shelbumc Hotel in Miami. 
If any of you alumnt want to see a good game and enjoy Southern Hospitality, and would like to go home with a nice tan which will last until Christmas, come on down. 
Tlic Club lield their annual Freshman Send-Off dinner August 12 at the Governors Club for five freshmen coming to ND this year from the Ft. Lauderdale area. The five are Steven M. Gehl, Joseph P. Kenlry, Richard F. Ott, Michael Trom­bctta and Donald A. Wich. 
A "mackerel snappers' holiday" was held by the Club on July 29, when club members fished from 7 to 11 p.m. Thursday evening off a chartered boat to catch their Friday meals. 
—ROBERT P. BLAIKIE, secretary 
Indianapolis 
We had our biggest turnout in years for Univcisal Notre Dame Night with F-\THER HESBURGH as our main speaker and guest of honor. One of the highlights of the evening was the award of The Man of The. Year which went to J. ALBERT SMITH '34. Tlie winner of the Club's Scholarship to Notre Dame for 1965 was John M. Boyle, a Cathedral High School graduate whose father is an ND grad. 
New officers and directors -for 1965-66 were an­nounced at the dinner and thc>' are as follows: President, RICH.\RD F. McN.AM.\RA; Vice Presi­dent, WILLIAM F. McGOWAN JR.; Secretary, ROBERT E. KANE; Treasurer, RICHARD K. OWENS; Directors, FRED L. MAHAFFEY and LEO A. BAR.\HORST. TOM KERN and BILL McGOWAN JR. were the chairmen for this excel­lent affair. 
BOB WELCH had Father PATRICK KENNY 

KANSAS CITY—New officers of the Kansas City ND Club auxiliary pose after their recent installation. They are (left to right): Mrs. Thomas J. Tobin Jr., corrcspaodins secretary; Mrs. Thomas McKeon, recording secretary; Mrs. Joseph B. Shai^hnessy, treasurer; Mrs. Donald Lanspa, president; Mrs. George J. McLiney, auditor; and Mrs. K, H. Martm, vice-prcadent. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 ^9 
SJ '49 as his house guest in May. Father gave a Httic pep talk to some of his classmates at the I.A.C. Ex-Indianapolis club members that were back in town for UXD night were DR. TOM CARNEY '37. JI^r McXAMARA '39 and JOE .\fc\AMAR/\ '47. 
Tlie stag outing was well attended at Two Gaits Farm uith BOB BOWERS and BOB KANE in cltargc. TIic fund raising project for the Scholarship Fund this year was the Avondale Playhouse with Kathryn Crosby (Bing's wife) playing the lead. LEO BARXHORST and committee did a great job in heading up this drive. 
Tlie annual golf tournament and dinner was held July 22 at the Hillcrest Countr>- Club. Ara Par­scghian teed off early so lie could give us the inside information on this coming fall. 
Indiana Governor Roger Branigin recently ap­pointed JIM WELCH '50 as director of trade rela­tions, State Alcoholic Beverage Commission. 
—ROBERT E. KANE '50, sccrctarx-


Kalamazoo 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Kalamazoo held its 16th annual summer outing at the Gull Lake Countr>* Club on July I3th. Club President GEORGE LAURE stated that over 300 loyal friends of Notre Dame attended the affair. Approximately 225 golfers showed up on the greens. 
A large group from the Universit\', headed by coach ARA PARSEGHIAN, HUGH DEVORE, JAKE KLINE, JOHNNY RAY and FATHER DURBIN attended. 
At the banquet that evening Head Coach Par­seghian introduced his staff and spoke briefly about the forthcoming football season. Program Chairman ART MULHOLLAND JR. awarded the golf prizes. 
—JOHN J. PETERS, secretary 


Kansas City 
The annual Freshman Send-Off Dinner uas held on September 9, with some 15 men of the Class of '69 and their fathers in attendance. Chairman of this year's dinner was MICHAEL HOG.AN '56. 
TIic final preparations arc being made by the Club to join forces with a group of nearly 150 Alumni and friends of the University from Salina, Kan. on a prixTtte train heading for the October 2 Notre Dame-North western football game in South Bend. The group from Salina is under the leadership of AL SCHWARTZ '37 with co-ordination in Kansas City by TOM McKEON '54. 
A second football trip is also planned. This time by charter flight from Kansas City to Miami, Fla. for the Notre Dame- Miami game. A group of some 100 people arc scheduled to stay in Miami for 6ve days at the Carrilion Hotel. Tlie chairman for this trip is JIM HIGGINS '53. 
TTie .Auxiliar>' has also been busy. 
At their annual lunclieon for the installation of new ofhcers. the Auxiliarv' presented HJ\ROL D SOLOMON '47, President of the Kansas City Club, with a check for $1,000 for Challenge 11. 
Other activities of the Auxiliary included a highly successful cocktail party and their annual lunclieon welcoming the mothers of the new freshmen. 
—MICHAEL J. HOGAN '56, secretary-


Lansing 
OfHcers were elected by the Xotrc Dame Club of Lansing to ser\'c for the coming Club vcar. Thev arc: President JOHN POWERS, Vice-President BOB DERENGOSKI, Secretary D.WE O'LE.ARY and Treasurer RICHARD ALFES. 
The Club sponsored a Poduck Kcnic for Alumni, wives and friends August 7 at the home of member 
R. G. SCHNEIDER in East Lansing. 

Lehigh Valley 
Tlic XD Club of Lehigh Valley, Pa. held their annual family picnic August 21 at the residence of DR. FREDERICK TATE in Allcntown, Pa. 
ERCOLE .SPIXOSA *57 was in charge of the event attended by more than 30 alumni, family and friends. 
—JAMES R. ROAVLAXD '57, secretary 


Los Angeles 
Tlic Los Angeles XD Club held their Sports Dinner in the Brown Bottle Room of the Schlitz Brewery in Van Xu>-s, June 21. Among other higli­lights was a showing of the "Highlights of the 1964" football season. 
A stag "TV-garae-watch" party has been planned for the XD-So. Cal. football game, October 23. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September-October^ 
INDIANAPOUS—J. Albert Smith (right), senior %*icc-presidcnt of the American Fletcher Bank, Indianapolis accepts his scroll as Man of the Year at UND Night ceremonies. Presenting the a^vard are Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC (left). Uni­versity president, and Robert V. Welch, committee chairman. 
A big **Tliank-You" is in order for JACK STEWART, cliatrman of the Universal Notre Dame Night festivities. Also another congratulations to BEN SALVATY on being named Man of the Year. 
After a year's lapse, the annual ND Club picnic has been revived, with alumni, family and friends enjoying the pool and other am;iscments of the St. Vincent de Paul Camp. HOSEA ALEXANDER '62 u-as the* picnic cliairman. 
Tlic Club sponsored a plane trip to San Francbco for the September 18 game with California. The trip included a two-day stay in Frisco and a cocktail party that night. 
On August 30 the Club sponsored a freshman Send-Off dinner for the new* students at XD this fall and their parents. 
—ROBERT L. GERVAIS. president 



Mansfield, Ohio 
The Notre Dame Club of Mansfield held its annual election of oflicers on March 17 and elected GEORGE K.W.\.N.\UGII '31, president; PETER MORITZ M3, vice-president; JIM JURGENS '30, treasurer; and FR.\NCIS COLEMAN '47, secretary-. 
Tlie annual Universal Xotrc Dame Xight banquet was held at the Leland Hotel on April 19. DR. L.\WREXCE B.\LDIXGER and his wife were tlie honored guests. Dr. Baldinger Is associate dean of the College of Science and head of the department of prc-professional studies. 
Sr. Mary Ludmilki and DR. D.-\VID J. M.-\SSA *43 were given airards for their contributions - to science. Chairman for the dinner %\-as RICH.ARD WALTER .'41. 
—FRANCIS S. COLE.M.\X '47, secrclan" 


Greater Miami 
The Miami Club on March 4, following Ash Wednesday, celebrated a belated Mardi Gras of sorlSf for it it'as on that date that the local Alumni, after fifteen long years, viewed the first almost perfect season since Leahy's last National Champs. \Vc viewed the Era of Ara for over an hour; these most pleasing pigskin pictures are the h'kes of which only the old-timers can recall and relive. Huarte to Snow . . . nuff said. .And now wc arc primed for the big one this fall in the Orange Bowl when Xotrc Dame takes on the Hurricanes of' Miami. 
Our club has lost some close ties in recent weeks. Judge VINCEN'T GIBLIN, an old Alumnus who was in the forefront in the formative years of our club and who arranged for the Four Horse­men to be Iierc at the last ND-Miami game, died. He was a mucli sought after speaker at affairs and was a great supporter of the Fighting Irish. J.-\CK ADAMSON, an associate member and former re­cipient of Man of Year Award, and CHARLIE TRICE, who made many of our arrangements in the first two visits of XD to Miami, both passed away and will be missed. 
It was announced by our President GEORGE 
F. HERO that the Dcauvillc Hotel was selected as the Club's headquarters for the Xotre Dame-Miami game on Xovember 27. The special rates for the period from Xovember 26 to November 28 will be §14 double occupancy*, European Plan (§7 
McHENRY COUNTY, ILL.—Man of the Year William W. Desmond (second from left) is presented with his plaque at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner recently. At left is Rev. Thomas E. Brady '59, former dub chaplain and now superintendent of Boylan High School, Rockford, 111. Making presentation are Joe Conerty '44 (right center) first Club president; and Tom Parsley '54, Club president. Bill Desmond attended ND in 1902-03 and played varsity football as a freshman. 
1965 
per person, double occupanc>' daily). If the modi­
fied American Plan is desired, an additional $4 
per day per person to the above rate (which 
maans a rate ot $11 per person, double occupancy' 
daily) includes a full seven-course dinner and a 
full course breakfast or brunch. 
During the past several months we have held 
numerous activities and In February we were for­
tunate to have the Athletic Director ED "MOOSE" 
KRAUSE on his visit to Miami on the Xotrc 
Dame Challenge II Program. He said dinner was 
a huge success with over 125 people in attendance 
at the Bcefster Restaurant. Outgoing President 
BOB PROBST was in charge of arrangements. 
In addition TOM HILS held a successful press 
luncheon at the Elks Club of Miami for NIoosc 
Krausc and DICK. RUWE of the Notre Dame 
Foundation. 
During the Challenge II Program wc were also 
fortunate to announce the Xotre Dame Man of 
the Year Award presented by JAMES SMITH, last 
recipient of the award, to GEORGE COURY in 
recognition of his many fine accomplishments for 
Xotre Dame and our local club. George has always 
been generous to the University of Xotre Dame and 
has included many contributions to the full 
commerce. 
On May 6 the club assembled at the Urmey 
Hotel for a dinner meeting. Tliose who attended 
the meeting included GEORGE KENXARD, JIM 
SWEEXEY, DAVE RUSSSELL, BILL KILLIAX, 
ROBERT I. PROBST, PARIS COWART, JACK 
C/VX.AXE. CHARLIE MAHER, BOB PROBST, 
DO.N* MURIUY, E. J. HANLEY. TOM HILS. 
CHUCK XACKLEY, BROTHER MICHAEL. 
GEORGE HERO, JOHN PARKS, ED LVOXS, 
JIM SMITH, JULES BERCUL, JERRY QUEL­
LETTE, R.AY POPP, B. J. FEE.VEY, BILL 
MAZ^VXEC and BILL STEETER. In addition we 
were fortunate to have DAX^ CULHAXE, alumnus 
of Xotre Dame from Chexy Chase, Md., and di­
rector of the Boys Club of America of the Middle 
Atlantic Region, in our attendance at our meeting. 
BROTHER ^^CHAEL ADAMS CSC of Arch­bishop Curlcy High School, announced the forth­coming testimonial dinner for BROTHER KERIC DEVER CSC, principal of Archbishop Curicy High School for the past six years. Tlic testimonial dinner was later held at Miami Springs Villas on May 11 with an overflow of a crowd of over 300 people. Brother Keric was recipient of many fine gifts, plaques and a generous check for a trip abroad. BROTHER CHARLES A.\DERSE.V CSC, director of admissions. St. Edward's University, Austin, Tex., was the keynote speaker and he did a wonderful presentation. 
CHARLIE MAHER and TOM HILS graduated from Xotre Dame In the same class as Brother Charles and in the afterglo of the afTair they reminisced with liim about **thc good old dux's.'' 
In addition the club was fortunate to have Ottis Mooney, assistant football coach of the U. of Miami Hurricanes, who gave us a rac>* rundown of what to expect from the local lads. He indicated they had fine prospects for a good team and would show some interesting football to the Miami fans. He mentioned the vicious practices of tlie college recruiting world these days and spoke as a past master of the trade. He jokingly announced that Miami had just jelled negotiations on the officials for the Miami-XD game and these would include tu'o brothers of ^lianiPs Coach Talc, some relatives of Mooney and two other close friends of Miami. After fielding pitched questions from some of our sharpies he ended an interesting talk that was Well received. One of our faithful announced he wished him and the Hurricanes the same kind of season XD had last year (get licked in the last game!) but I suggest the old grads of XD would not care to sit until the last tw*o minutes to win this one. 
On the subject of football, you might be in­terested to see some of the Irish because Andy Gustafson, head of the Xortli-Soutb Shrine game held in Miami, has already signed Ara Parseghian to coach the Xorth on the game held here in Miami on Christmas Day. 
On June 24, the club held a splash party at the Airliner Motel at 7 p.m., with hot dogs, beer and a band for entertainment. It was a welcome home parly for our President, GEORGE F. HERO, who recently got married and xvas just returning from bis honeymoon. TOM HILS and BILL M.A-ZfVXEC were co-chairmen of this function. 
On July 22, the club had a Xotrc Dame Xiglit when the Miami Marlins baseball club entertained Leesburg, In the Miami Stadium. GEXE KUBICKI and DAVE RUSSELL made the arrangements with Bill Dumey, fonner sports broadcaster of the St. Louis Browns and now general manager of the Miami Marlins. 

MUSKEGON—Athletic Director Ed "Moose" Krausc concentrates on sinking a putt during the Sixth Annual Muskegon Notre Dame CIub*s golf stag at Pontaluna Country Club. In the right photo, Irish halfback and leading ground gainer last fall, Bill Wolski (left) totes up his score with John Boeschenstein after their round of golf. A capacity gathering filled the course, enabling the Muskegon Club to add to its scholarship fund. 
The club closed its summer activities with a picnic at Crandon Park Cabanas on .August 14. CHUCK XACKLEY and JIM SWEEXEY were co-chainiicn of this affair. 
—CHARLIE MAHER, secretary 


Monroe, Mich. 
The news from Monroe, Midi., is the following: 
HUGH L.\UGHXA '40 and I attended our 25th and 20tb reunion in June. The reunions this year were by far the best. 
PAUL BR.AU.VLICH u-as elected prosecuting at­torney in last Xovember's elections. DR. JOHX L.\BOE surprised us all by an­nouncing the birth of his fifth daughter June 6. 
I'm enclosing a picture that is long overdue. A picttire of proof that after five dauglttcrs it Is still possible to have a son. Our eldest daughter is 17 and the *'King," as he is called by bis sisters, is 2/3. 
—ROBERT MAURER, secretarj­
MIAMI—George Coury (right) receives the Man of the Year award at a recent Club banquet. Featured speaker at the award banquet was Athletic Director Ed "Moose" Krause (left). Behind George is James Smith, last year's Man of the Year, who presented (his year's a>v'ard. 


Muskegon 
Heaven blessed us with a beautiful day and the presence of "MOOSE" KRAUSE for our sixth annual golf stag held at the Pontaluna Country Club on Tuesday, July 27. We missed some of the usual participants from South Bend: FATHER BREXXAX, FATHER DURBIX, BILL E.\RLEY, DEVORE, CAHILL, KLIXE and O'XAPOLITAXO, but Moose filled in beautifully and added' the right spark. Some say that Moose's attendance ^vas a side trip from a short vacation at the Cannon (GEORGE and BILL) Lodge on the Pere Mar­quette River at Baldwin. 
We arc grateful to the Cannons for thus making Moose a\>ailable as well as a great deal of thanks due to tireless ST^VX TYLER JR., our energetic Club President (vvliom wc are maintaining in that office "in perpetuum") and TV and radio per­sonality, JIM MORSE, along with newly acquired TOM MOORE (of the Detroit Ball Bearing Moores) and the ole faithful and reliable BILL T.ARD.AXI, the Hackley Bank executive, all of whom contrib­uted much time and effort to make this year's affair a friendly as welt as a financial success. 
Tills annual stag has grown in popularity and is well attended by our non-alumni friends and sym­pathizers and Wc do not have any trouble getting together a crowd of 150 or better, which was the approximate number this year. It is helpful to our scholarship fund and helps keep the Xotre Dame spirit alive in our area. 
—LEO L. LIXCK, sccrctar>-


Nashviile 
Tlie fledgling X^otrc Dame Club of Xashville held their first annual Universal X'otre Dame N'ighl observance on April 24 in the Biltmorc Gold Room. 
John Seigenthalen, former national pHze-winning reporter and present editor of The Xashville Ten­nessean, gave a very enjoyable talk on freedom and the responsibility of the press. 
Toastmaster DICK DORA '41 then introduced several guests, among them Ray Kemp, former athletic director at Tennessee A & I, and Buddy Young, fonner star for Illinois and the Baltimore Colts. 
The high point of the evening was the presen­tation of the Man of the Year Award to the Most Rev. Joseph A. Durick. D.D., bishop of Xashx-ille. Fr. John Henrick, Club chaplain, . accepted the au'ard for Bishop Durick. 
After dinner, the group enjoyed the filmed high­lights of the 1964 football season. 

Northern California 
TheX'^olrc Dame Club of Northern California held its banquet for Universal Notre Dame Xight on April 20 at the Olvmpic Club in San Francisco. REV. THONLAS J. O'DOXXELL CSC was fea-
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September-October, 1963 
PITTSBURGH—Left photo: Mrs. Mary Stuhldreher receives the Man of the Year Award plaque awarded posthumously to her husband and Notre Dame football great, Harry A. Stuhldreher. President Paul Hudak (center) makes the presentation while University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC looks on. Right photo: Fr. Hesburgh addresses those attending the Pittsbui^h Club's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. At the head table are, left to right: Hudak (bidden behind microphone), Edward J. Hanley, Mrs. Paul Hudak and 
Guyford Stever. 
turcd as the guest speaker bringing a fresh infusion of the old spirit of the Fighting Irish to the dis­tant coast. 
WILUA.M C. McGOWAN Ml, long a slaUvarl of the local clubs, u-as honored with the Man of the Year Award. 
—THO^f.AS J. KERXA.V, secretary­


Omaha-Council Bluffs 
The ND Club of Omaha-Council BlulTs, Neb. has elected officers for the coming Club year. Tliey arc: THO.MAS A. WALSH '42, president; ROBERT H. ROHLIXG '50, \icc-prcsidcnt; JAMES P. KIXEEN, secretary; and JOHN T. CARPENTER '58, treas­urer. 
—J.\MES KI.NEEX, secretary 

Peoria 
New officers have been elected bv the Notre Dame Club ot Peoria. Tlicv are: GEORGE J. BEST MD *38, president; LOUIS ZUMBAHLEN '49, \*ice-president; DENIS BERRY '56, sccrctao'; and DAVID THOMAS '62, treasurer. 
It was Notre Dame NJglil July 27 at a home game of the Peoria Pacers, a member o[ the Cen­tral Illinois Collegiate League. XD senior DAN McGINN is a pitcher for the Peoria baseball club and was honored by the ND alumni. 
Also honored *fCrc Rich Saugct and Al Kris­towski, both ND undergrads who played for the opposing Lincoln, 111., team. 


Philadelphia 
Philadelphia Club members looked forward to an active fall and winter season after a quiet summer. The only summer actirity was an enjoyable outing at Liberty BcU Race Track, which celebrated the occasion by staging the Notre Dame Club of Phila­delphia one-mile feature race- JIM VOIT earned a pat on the back for arranging a real fun party. 
The new season opened with Back-to-School Night, a cruise on a Delaware River excursion boat tvhich has become a popular annual event uith alumni and students of the Philadelphia area. 
Two football trips arc scheduled this fall: to New York by train for the Army game, and by plane to Miami for the Miami game. Both hope­fully will draw capacity. 
President BILL \VHITESIDE and PAT KITT­REDGE, tu*o ornaments of the Philadelphia bar, have done a fine job of revising the outdated Club constitution and by-Iau-s. 

JOHN DEMPSEY is hard at work on arrange­ments for the annual Communion Breakfast, which will bring together club members and their families in December. Once again the party w*ill honor the Delaware Valley high school football players who win the Knutc Rocknc Memorial Awards. The 1963 Award winner, John Pergine, has made an excellent impression as a quarterback candidate on the ND \'arsity. 
JIM LEYDON, tireless, ingenious and able club president in 1963 and 1964, was given the Man-of­thc-Ycar Award at the Universal Notre Dame Night party. President Whiteside handled arrange­ments at tlie Bellevue-Stratford Hotel. Everyone enjoyed the party, especially the professional cn-
PEORIA, ILL. was flic site of this talk be­tween actor Pat O^Bricn and alumnus Jack Manion on the occasion of the Peoxia Deancxy Council of Catholic Men's dinner for the bishop last June. Jack brought altmg Knute and the three had a vi^t together. Jack's president <A the Deanery Council there. 
tertainment arranged by Bill. REV. JOHN WALSH 
CSC represented the University and made a hit 
with his remarks. 
JOHN MOORHEAD had a long, hard summer —a destructive fire swept through the Connelly Container Co. plant early in the spring, and John (not lo mention a couple of hundred other em­ployees) had to labor under difficulties as the rebuilding job went on around them. 
TOM McGRATH (our Club's first Congressman) has been named to the Banking and Currency- Com­mittee of the House of Representatives. 

Phoenix 
Notre Dame Alumni and their wixcs celebrated Universal NT) night on May 6 at the Casa de Paz y Bien, Franciscan retreat house in Scottsdale. 
JOHN McSHANE '55 was named as Man of the Year and the presentation of the award was made by ED BOYLE '38, last year's honoree and former head of the FBI In Arizona. McShane is presently serving as Wee-president of the Club and is an electrical engineer for the computer department of General Electric Co- in Phoenix. A native of Ham­mond, Jnd., ^IcShane is a second-generation winner of a Notre Dame Club award. His father JIM McSHANE received the award in 1963 from the club in Calumet, Ind. 
The principal speaker for the dinner program was REV. ALBERT HEINZER CSC '41, director of Father Pe>-ton's family theater, who described his work and showed a film depicting the work of the family theater. Master of ceremonies for the affair was DR. WILLIAM DUNN '47 who intro­duced ART £RRA *30, president of the Club, who made a brief business report at the meeting. 
—TOM S\nTH '59, secretary* 


Rochester 
The ND Club of Rochester Is planning a trip to the ND-Army football game in Shea Stadium for alumni and friends. Chairman JOHN CASEY has planned for a bus-ride down and back and two nights in the Hotel Summit in New York City. 
The annual g«lf tournament was held at Braemar Country Club July 19 with a filet mlgnon dinner following the rounds of golf. Topping off the eve­ning was a drawing for $100 in the Club's regular raffle. They will give away two more $100 purses and a new car or $2,000 In cash to some lucky member. 
Back in June the Club held a smoker in con­junction with the Bishop Kearney's Men's Club. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
The smoker featured 1964 All-America end JACK 
SNOW and ND sporU publicity director CHARLIE 
CALLAHAN. 
—JOHN W. GLAVIN, secretary 
Rome, Italy 
Universal Notre Dame Night, per circumstance, 
is celebrated here in two sections: Tlie Early Bird 
St. Patrick's Night Party and again in April on 
the occasion of the annual Notre Dame Alumni 
Pilgrimage from the US. But the Victory March 
was played and played again on both occasions. 
^(emorial Masses were sponsored for the eternal 
rest of FRANK X. CULL '08 and for .MICHAEL 
DONAHUE '67, both of Cleveland, Ohio. Mike 
was a member of the ND student program at Inns­
bruck, Austria. 
Latest NDer to announce residence in Italy is 
LT. C.MDR. NORBERT .MORI.ARTY '46, US.V, 
stationed with Allied Forces in Naples. 
Also a distinguished new Rome member: PROF. 
JOSEPH F. MENEZ AB '45 AM '46 PhD '52, 
who was a veteran floor "prefect" in Old Sorin 
is presently on faculty of Loyola University of 
Chicago's Rome Year Abroad Program. 
Guests: CLARENCE SMITH '22 and wife; RICH­
.ARD CROWLEY '56, C. B. BELL MS '48 PhD '33; 
FRANCIS TOYNE '40; PETER DOYLE '63; 
FRANK PATOUT '63; PAUL DONOVAN '63 
with wife; JOHN TURNER '61; JIM McNERNEY 
'64; PROF. LOUIS HASLEY AB '30 MA '31 and 
wife; J.AMES SMITH '62; JOSEPH BETTE '61; 
brother of .MARTIN McCAULEY '36; FR.\NK 
KIERN.AN '18; TOM ROBINSON '66; JOHN 
FL.ASKA '61; FR. JAMES BURTCHAELL CSC 
'56; FR. TOM BAKER CSC '49; DICK REAMER 
'53; JOHN HOEY '61; DR. RONALD LOREN­
ZINI '57 and wife Beverly (SMC '56) for TED 
FL.\NIGAN '38; parents of JOHN F. M.ARCHAL 
'38; FR. R. WELLS CSSR '43; LT. JOE BRYAN 
'61 and wife Marguerite for D.-\VE HACK '42; 
parents of BOB SULLIVAN '62; daughter of 
FRED STEELE '27; R. SPIKE SULLIVAN '31 
and wife; JIM SHAW (brother of BUCK) "22; 
TO.M CURRY '14 with wife Angela (SMC '14) 
and daughter Angela (mother of Angela (SMC 
'68); ANDREW CHAPLIN '62; Barbara for JACK 
SCHOUTEN '48; DAVE .McCAFFREY '33, father 
of sons DAVID '64 and JOHN '66; father of 
VINCE RYAN '62 and MICHAEL '66; WILLIAM 
BROWN '29; LT. RICHARD LUDWIG '63. 
—VINCE McALOOX '34, secretary 
St. Louis 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obsen-cd by 
the St. Louts Club with cocktails and dinner at 
the Colony Inn. Our guest speaker was the REV. 
JOHN WALSH CSC, University vice-president. 
.•\s always, his message was vcr\' informative as 
well as entertaining. DENNY TROESTER '57 of 
the Foundation Office, was also in town on business 
and attended the UND Night dinner. 
CONNIE LANE '57, retiring president of the Club, handled all the arrangements for UND Night and presided over the meeting. All the members of the Club would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank Connie for doing such an excellent job during his year as president. 
Two awards were given at the UND Night banquet. DR. WILLLAM GILLESPIE '44 was named Notre Dame Man of the Year for his out­standing ser\-icc to the community, to his profes­sion and to the club over the years. Bob Harness who will be starting as a freshman at Notre Dame in September, received the St. Louis Club Schol­arship. 
New ofHccrs were elected and installed recently by the club. Tlicy arc: JERRY McGLYNN *60, President; JOE McGLYNN '55, vice-president; JOE D\VYER '58, secretary-treasurer; JOHN PHELAN '56, vice-president of University Relations. 
RICH CONNORS '63 and PAUL GUND '63 were named as new members of the Board of Directors. 
—JOE D\VYER '58, secretary-treasurer 
Spokane 

FATHER HESBURGH was the guest speaker at the Club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Nigiit on Saturday, Xfay 22. Tlie afTair Iiad been postponed in order to coincide with Father's scheduled appearance in the Commencement exer­cises of Gonzaga University. The Elizabethan Room of the Davenport Hotel was the scene of the larg­est gathering of members and friends in the history of the Club. Local alumni of St. Mary's College and of Portland University were among those attending. 
During the Social Hour Father Hcsburgh per-
SPOKANE—Rev. Theodore Hesburgh CSC, University president, (right) talks with Man of the Year Dr. Bob Mahcr (center) and retiring President Dick St. John. 
sonally greeted cver^* guest, much to their pleasure. 
A Slan of the Year scroll was awarded to DR. 
ROBERT C. MAHER '35, with JOE W.VLSH '14 
reading the citation and Father Hcsburgh enhancing 
the honor by handing the scroll to the surprised 
recipient. Father was introduced for his address 
by DR. JIM ROTCHFORD '48 who was in 
Father's first Theolog>" class. 
Retiring President DICK ST. JOHN '56 was 
toastmaster for the gala event and announced the 
election of the following officers for the ensuing 
vcar: President RAY PENLAND '56; Vice-President 
DR. D. CURRAN HIGGINS '49; Secretary-Treas­
urer JOE WALSH '14. 
The following members attended: ED BETHKE 
'28; FATHER PAUL FITTERER SJ '49; FRAN 
FLANNERY '31; FRANK HERRON '35; PETE 
HIROU '62; DR. BOB JOHNSTON '41; ELMER 
JOHxVSO.N '23; BOB JONES '62; CL.MR KEARNS 
'33; TOM LALLY '06; JIM LYNCH '40; SISTER 
M. MICHELLE FCSP '62; DR. BOB MAHER '35; BOB McGLYNN '54; DR. DEE J. McGONIGLE '52; JOHN O'NEILL '29; RAY PENLAND '56; BE.V PENA '64; DR. JLM ROTCHFORD '48; 

VIRGINIA —Charles M. Morrisson '38 (left) receives his plaque as Man of the Year for 1965 from Dr. Frank R. Kelly Jr. *39 at Universal Notre Dame Night festiv­ities. Assistant Athletic Director Hugh Devore was guest speaker. 
DICK ST. JOHN '56; VINCE SLATT '43; BER­
NIE SMYTH '55; BILL SPIELER '53; and JOE 
WALSH '14. 
Plans are being made for the Annual Retreat 

which has been scheduled for the weekend o( 
October 15. Since that is an open date on Notre 
Dame's football schedule, it is hoped that there 
will be a good attendance. 
The Football TV Party on October 23 will be 

once again at the home of Mrs. Robert Rotchford, 
mother of DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, who has gT»­
ciously in\*ited the Club to be her guests as they 
were last year and view the game on large screen 
color TV. 
—JOE WALSH '14, secretary-treasurer 

Salina 
The Salina ND Club held their annual Summer 

Frolic July 22 with food and fun for all alumni 
and friends at Pioneer Lake. 
The Club also arranged for a trip to the ND-

Northwestern game October 2. The members 
stayed in the Bismarck Hotel in Chicago and then 
bussed to SD Saturday for the game. 
Toledo 
President BILL THEE5 has relinquished his post 

after a very successful year. New officers of the 
Club wiU be PAUL KRAUS, president; UKB 
GRADEL, vice-president; JOE SANTOS, treas­
urer; and BLAINE WILEY, secretary. 
—JOHN HARRON, outgoing secntaiy 

Triple Cities 
The University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of 

the Triple Cities was honored by the presence of 
Alumni Executive Secretary, JAMES E. ARM­
STRONG, at our observance of Universal Notre 
Dame Night. The affair was held on April 2S 
at LaMonica's Restaurant, Binghamtoo, and was 
attended by 70 alumni and friends. 
This year's Notre Dame Atan of the Year Award 

was presented to Club President JOSEPH P. GAL­
LOW.AY '51. In addition to his duties as president 
for the past several years Joe has previously served 
as club secretary, participated actively in Challenge 
I and Challenge II and has served as chairman of 
the local high schools' College Night representing 
Notre Dame for the past several years. 
New officers were elected for the coming yean 

President, THOMAS .MUSCATELLO '49; vice-
president, FRANK LINEHAN '45; secretary, JAMES 
CONNERTON '49, and treasurer, GEORGE P. 
KEYES '57. 
In addition the follomng wilt ser^'e as directors: 

JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY '51, THOMAS BENE­
DICT '49, GEORGE HAINES '42, and JOHN J. 
O'ROURKE '49. 
—JOHN J. O'ROURKE '49, secretary 

Virginia 
The Notre Dame Club of Virginia celebrated 

Universal Notre Dame Night at St. Mary's Church 
in Richmond on April 26. 
More than 150 persons attended the dinner and heard assistant athletic director HUGH DEVORE as the principal speaker. 
CH.\RLES M. MORRISON '38 was named Man of the Year. A showing of "The 1964 Football HigfaHghu" concluded the program. —JIM WALLACE '61, vice-president-treasurer 
Washington, D.C. 
The ND Club of Washington, D.C, held their UND Night observance June 8 at a buffet dinner. The Hon. John E. Moss, Congressman from Cali­fornia, was the principal speaker. 
New olGcers for the Club are: WALTER J. BRENNAN, president; FRANK E. McCARTHY, vice-president; JOHN F. O'CONNELL, secretarr: and JOSEPH P. MALONEY, treasurer. ROBERT 
N. HUTCHISON and ALBERT A. VIROSTEK JR., retiring president, were named to the board of directors. 
Western Woshington 
Hat Island, four miles off the Washington coast in Pugct Soimd, was the site of'the Western Wash­ington ND Club's annual picnic August 14. 
Boats ferried the alumni, families and friends oat to the isbnd where barbecue pits, swimming, horse­shoes, Softball, fishing and other entertainment awaited. 
GENE McKALE was chairman of the event. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 2965 33 
Miss Linda Louise Hesscl and J.AMES ROBERT Miss Mary Jo Xiebauer and RONALD AL-

Classes 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Miriam Korlcns and PETER BURTON' BRYAXT '55. Miss Kathleen Tlieresa Grummell and DENNIS F. TROESTER '57. Miss Marv Ann Briclier and V. BRUCE JUNIUS '58. ^^lss Sandra Ann Bradsliau- and THO^^\S R. McBREEN '59. Miss Marie-Pearl Dafault and JOHN D.^VID TRE-ACY '59. Miss Barbara Ana Becker and MICIWEL D.\NIEL KELLY '60. Miss Roberta Lee Peters and DR. STEPHEN J. KRAUS '60. MIS. Melissa Smvth Kelly and THOM.AS H. BE.ACOM JR '61. Miss Rita Ann McGratt%- and Lt. EDWARD D. McCARRON JR. '61. Miss KaUicrine Gail McGoldrick and FRANCIS 
X. O'CON.VOR JR '61. Miss Karen L\Tine Knudscn and A\TLLI.\M KING SLIFE '61. Miss Susan Gail Dovle and EDMUND A. STEPHAN JR. '61. Miss Lynda Lcc Pasdikc and .\NTHO.VY A. COX JR '62. Miss Barbara .Anne Bachmann and JOIiX W.ALTER GLYNX JR '62. -Miss Gcraldinc Tapping and ROBERT F. DET­TELBACH '63. Miss Maureen O'Dea and OWE.V F. FEEXEY '63. Xfiss Julie Ann Hillier and P.AUL C. POWERS '63. ^^ss Susan Jane Hoehn and RICIURD JOHX SULLIVAN '63. Miss Patricia Anne Guilfovlc and WILLI.AM 
KING BLAKE '64. Miss Ariinc Cote and RICILARD J. COPPA '64." Miss Karen Lucia and FR.-\XK MICRAEL 

CORRADO '64. Miss Susan Ann Fischer and DEXXIS J. McCRACKEX '64. Miss Mar>- Michele Manzella and GEORGE P.\T­RICK NOVAK '64. Miss Marj- Patricia Gallen and JOHN WILLIAM STERN '64. Miss Anne Siveetcnnan and JOHN BUTLER D.AVIS '65. Miss Mary Margaret Clanc\' and KEVIN ED­WARD DOOLEY '65. Mbs Donna Dee Marie Hor\-atli and THOM.AS ERNEST ERTL '65. Miss Jane Irene Lenzini and ROBERT WILLIAM FITZGERALD '65. Mbs Susan Coleman and JOHN C. KLUDIXG '65. Miss Margaret .Ann Mosqucra and BRIAX MICHAEL IfcC-AX.X '65. Miss Ada Marie Mudd and RICHARD WILLIAM MURRAY '65. Miss Marshalcc Frcv and FREDERICK WIL­LIAM RAY III '65. Miss Christine A. Glmclinck and GEORGE L. RIPLEY n i '65. -Miss Gale Ann Kou-akti and STEPHEX R­STETZ '65. Miss Joyce L. Lobeck and ROBERT P.ATRICK STRICKLER '65. Miss Ann Catherine Price and CH.ARLES L. WATSOX JR '65. 

MARRIAGES 
Jfiss Virginia Hogan and THO^LAS J. REILLY •42, Hartland, 111., February 22. Miss Marie K. Zerbey and GEORGE F. HERO '52, Miami, Fla., June 5. Xfiss Jane A. Mahler and ROBERT C. COPE­LAND '55, South Bend, Ind., June 19. Miss Matgueritc Marie Lcroux and THOM.AS JEROME ARNOLD '56, Miluaukee, Wis., June 12. 
COSTELLO '56, Keuanee, Wis., August 14. Miss Mollv Moore and JOHX BOLGER '57, Schuylkill Haven, Pa., Julv ID. Miss Jo Ann Mae Russo and BRUXO A. ROMEO, '57, Burbank, CaliL, April 24. 
Miss Kathrjn Joan Wolfe and EDWARD WIL­LIA.M HARDIG '58, South Bend, Ind., July 24. Miss * Svlvia Ann Meltinos and DENNIS FRAXCIS S.MFFH '58, LaPorte, Ind., June 26. Miss Maria Elena Laivton and .ALFREDO JU.AX 

TORRUELLA JR '58, Atlanta, Ga., 1964. Miss Susan Bemis Corey and JOSEPH MARTIX BOLAXD JR '59, Xotrc Dame, June 19. Miss Sheila Ann Hamc\- and J.AMES JOSEPH BRADY '59, Chicago, III., Julv 24. MUs Judith .M. Murray and RICHARD A. GRIMLER '59, Peoria, III., June 19. Miss Margaret Purdy and NICK GRAFFEO JR '60, Birmingham, Ala., Mav 15. Miss Jean .MariN-n Bedford and PETER JOHN HUBER '60, E;:clid. Ohio, November 28, 1964. -Miss Marj- Kay Tn:ralin and FR.AXCIS JOHX KRAUS '60, Lakeivood, Ohio, June 19. 
Roseanne Click, M.D., and DOX.ALD T. Mc-ALLISKER, M.D. '60, Covington, Ky.. June 5. Miss Roberta Lee Pctei5 and Dr. STEPHEX J. 

McGEE '60, Lakcuood, Ohio, May 15. 
Miss Sara .Ann Tomlinson MAT '65 and LEE MICH.AEL SHIPMAX '60, Charieston, W.Va., June 19. 

Miss Man.- Christine Beckman and GEORGE F. GORE III '61, Lyndhurst, Ohio, December 29, 1964. 
Miss Diane Marie Soucek and RICHARD MICHAEL LIPTAK '61, Independence, Ohio, -May 29. 
.MUs Louise Whallcn and KEXXETH F. LOJE 'GI, Euclid, Ohio, July 3. Miss Judith Ann Babarcka; and I/LT MICHAEL JOHX STEPAXEK JR '61, .Notre Dame, May 8. Miss Margaret .A. McShane and EDWARD J. STRAUB '61, Quincy, Ha., June 29. Miss Rita Ann Strobel and RICHARD ALBERT BAJURA '62, South Bend, Ind., June 5. Miss Loretto Margaret Reuwcr and LT JOHN' MICHAEL BECK.MA.X '62, Xotre Dame, June 26. 
Miss Joyce Victoria Sdiecl and Lt. JOHN ALEX­.A.XDER COSTELLO '62, Clarendon Hills, 111., August 21. 
Miss Man- Louise Paniin and JAMES EDWARD DONAHUE '62, Euclid, Ohio, May 1. Miss Kav Frances Arcliambeault and JOHN F. GOEHL JR '62, Notre Dame, June 19. Miss Patricia Anne Dial and J.AMES CLIFFORD HAIGHT '62, Pampa, Texas, July 24. Miss Pameb Merrj- Lapick and JACK PATRICK McDO.VALD '62, Gates Mills, Ohio, April 23. 
Miss Kathleen Ann Drouillard and JOHN PAT­RICK McQUILL-AN '62, Notre Dame, Ind., July 24. 
Mbs A. Sibley Rogers and FRANK WILLIAM OWEXS '62, Palo Alto, Calif., June 10. .Mbs Judith Ann Ford and PATRICK EDWARD POWERS '62, Encino, Calif., January 23. Miss Kathe Joyce Mcnick and GARY LUTHER TOW.\SE.N"D '62, Port Chester. X.Y., June 12. ilbs Roberta Limani and WILLIAM C. WEIX­SHEIMER '62, Oak Park, 111., June 5. 
Miss Carolyn Frances Kimmcl and PATRICK JOSEPH BREXX.A.V '63, South Bend, Ind., July 10. Mbs Mar}- Ann Roach and JOHN E. BUTKO­
VICH '63, Cincinnati, Ohio, May 22. 
Miss Merry Ann Stitzcr and ROBERT JOSEPH HELLRUNG '63, Clarendon Hills, III., August 21. Miss Ann Dorian Brice and Ens. KEVIN DAN­
-XER HU.VT '63, Larchmont, N.Y., July 17. 
Miss Heather Ann Mcintosh and LT CHARLES JOSEPH McCULLOUGH '63, Chicago, III., June 12. 
Miss Virginia SalholT and THOM.AS E. PEAR­SON '63, Fredonia, N.Y., July 17. Miss Celine Barrv- and BRIAN JOHN SHEA '63, Larchmont, N.Y., June 2. Miss Joan Hartford Dorgan and ROBERT PETER STEPSIS '63, Notre Dame, Ind., August 21. 
Miss Roseman- Ruth Grant and MICHAEL AN­THON^Y WHITNEY '63, Cleveland Heights, Ohio, July 17. 
Miss Pameti Marie Wegner and J.AMES ROB­ERT ALEXANDER JR '64, South Bend, Ind., July 3. 
Miss Jane .Ann Cook and BRIAX J. BARNES '64, Lansing, Mich., August 7. Miss Kathleen Anne Musick and LAWRENCE 
W. BORGMAN '64, Notre Dame, Ind., August 14. Mbs Gloria Jean Thomas and ROBERT ALBERT C.ATONE '64, Xotrc Dame, Ind., July 24. Mbs Rosemarie Toth and ROBERT LEE COOK PhD '64, Calumet City, 111., August 14. 
^^•ss Marie Christine Odusch and STEPHEX J.AMES CULLFTOX '64, Notre Dame, June 19. 
PHOXSO DeLAERO '64, Notre Dame, Ind., August 28. Miss Ines Frobeen and LT ROBERT B. DRAGANI '64, South Bend, Ind., July 10. .Mbs Patricia A. Rj-an and J. PETER GRACE III '64, Manhassct, L.I., X.Y., June 12. Miss Faith Noble and Lt. CYRIL J. LET­ZELTER '6», Indiana, Pa., July 9. Miss Janet Elaine Danieb and DEXXIS C. Mc­FARL.AND '64, Siou.t Falls, S.D., August 28. 
Mbs Xancy Martin Anderson and CH.ARLES MICHAEL McKEEVER '6», Greenwich, Conn., Julv 3. 
Miss Gail Elizabeth Haskc and JAMES BER­XARD XUTTER '64, Lansing, Mich., July 31. Miss Betty Anne Jodlbauer and FR,\XK J. PAPP JR '64, Elklon, Md., June 26. Mbs Frances Marj- Potliin and RICHARD W. STR.AXGER '64, Cranston, R.I., June 19. Miss Lillian Mav Chard and LAWRENCE W. BESHEL '65, Guniee, III., June 12.. Miss Julie Ann Kcrckaert and JOH.V AXDREW BURGGRAF '65, South Bend, Ind.. June 19. Miss Susv Lee Porter and JAMES ELSWORTH CHILDS '65, Peru, Ind., July 10. Miss Frances Ann Cummings and JOSEPH Di-GREGORIO '65, Notre Dame, Ind., June 4. 
Miss Debia Ann Rawlings and GORDON MICHAEL KEXXEDY '65, South Bend, Ind.. June 12. 
Miss Margaret Edna Bums and KARL GR.AXT KIXG III '65. Nashville, Tcnn., .August 14. ^rlss Faith Noble and CYRIL J. LETZELTER '64, Indiana, Pa., July 9. Miss Gloria Jean Stetz and KEXXETH ALBERT LIPIXSKI '65, Lakewood, Ohio, July 10. Miss Mary Tlieresc ScuUv and KEXXETH MAGLICIC '65, Cleveland, Ohio, June 12. 
Miss Kathleen Marie Mrozinski and BRIAX LOUIS MILLER '65, South Bend, Ind., August 28. Miss Paula Lillian Persen and TERRY STUART MILLER M.A '65, Minneapolb, Minn., August 10. Miss Dauretta .lean Menta and XORMAX JOSEPH NICOLA '65, South Bend, Ind., June 26. 
Mbs Patricia Ann Torok and FREDERICK CH.ARLES RUSI.XA '65, Xotre Dame, Ind., August 21. 
Miss Mary Carol Shane and JACK T. SXOW '65. Long Beach, Calif., June 12. Miss Eileen Ann Ruppe and PAUL HENRY STEPAN '65, Skokie, III., June 12. Miss Dorb Mane Gtzy-^vinski and JOHN' FRANCIS TORTl '65, Notre Dame, June 19. Miss Marj- Gail Quinlan and MICHAEL JOHX VOGEL '65, South Bend, Ind.. July 3. ^^ss Kathleen Eleanor Burke and THEODORE JOHX WERNER '65, Xotre Dame, June 26. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. JEROME P. HEXDEL '47, a daughter, Patricia Anne, Julv 23. Mr. and Mri. THO.VLAS F. BRODEX '49, a son. May 31. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. EXGLEH.ART '52, a daughter, Mar>- Beth, August 12. Mr. and Mis. DOX.ALD F. CUDDIHEE '54, a :on, Mark Ed«-ard, May 20. Mr. and Mrs. RICH.ARD ROSE.\THAL '51, a daughter, Ellen Elizabeth, August 18. Dr. and Mre. FRANK J. DEGA '56, a daughter. Marguerite Ann, April 15. Mr. and Mis. KENNETH P. WINKLER '56, a daughter, Anne Marie, June 25. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. GORDON '57, a son, Stephen Willbm, June 14. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE WINKLER III '57, a daughter, Maureen, May 18. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT McGOVERN '58, a son, June 6. Mr. and Mrs. D.ANIEL W. O'BRIEN '58, a son, William Grady, August 21. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD M. O'TOOLE '58, a son, Patrick Michael, July 23. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. BORLIK '59, a son, Cniig Hunter, February 18. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL R. O'CONNOR JR. '59, a • daughter, Mary X'orcen, July 22. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT B. SCHOE.\EM.AN '59, a son, Carl Anthonv. July 24. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM HERGENROTHER, '60, a son, June 14. Mr. and Mre. LAWRENCE G. MARTIN '60, a daughter, Maigaret Ann, April 25. Mr. and Mis. HERBERT R. MOELLER '60, a daughter, Diana ^larie, April 25. Mr. and_ Mrs. DEE C. STEVENSON '60, a daughter, Krista Lv-nn, April 8. 
(Turn to page 40) 

34 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
1915 • 1920 • 1925 • 1930 • 1935 • 1940 • 1945 • 1950 • 1955 • 1960 
They All Came for the 1965 Reunion— 
and Filled All Rooms ... 
The 1965 Reunions, attended by more than 1100 registered alumni, found room space at a premium in the five halls set aside for the weekend. The Alumni Banquet in the North Dining Hall featured, again, wall-to-wall alumni as a most attentive 
And 
audience for the Presidents' Reports — Lank Smith for the Association and Father 
Hesburgh for the University. 
The Golf Course found the good weekend weather setting a Reunion record for 
the more than 500 golfers who toured the Burke course. Father Holderith's alumni 
sparkled in the prize awards, but the tournament is broad enough to spotlight those 
alumni whose scores are creative and imaginative and even dramatic. 
Reminisced, 
-\s we have said, year in and year out, the Reunion is a reunion. It is not intended as a retreat — although the Class Masses, the Sunday .'\lumni Mass with its fine sermon by Father Maurice Powers and the meditative walks that many alumni enjoyed, come close to this result. It is not intended as a s>'mposium — and the somewhat dis­appointing crowd that occupied the Library ."Auditorium to hear Dr. George Shuster, 
Renewed, 
Dr. Frederick Rossini and Dr. Thomas Bergin in a significant approach to continuing 
education, proved our point But, those who attended were rewarded by the program. 
Watch for the 1966 Reunion literature, which tentatively will include a specific 
Continuing Education program, but just preceding the regular reunion weekend. 
We think this may be one answer to the problem of integrating the two events. 
Relived, 
There was more evidence of general planning in the 1965 Reunions. The Silver 
Jubilee Class, following a strong recent tradition, was thoroughly organized in detail ' for the entire weekend. The Class of '25 featured a special dinner honoring the 40th anniversary of the Rose Bowl team. ."And the younger Classes served notice in their promotion and attendance that a new pattern for Reunions, to meet our own 
and Retold. 
space problems, is now directly facing us. 
Until the Concluding Communion 
Breakfast on Sunday . . . 
But, from the beginning, our Reunion Review... 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 35 
--~-M<^-.-i--.;Sa^ggajjigj^||jjg 
Smile! You're On . . 
1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 
20. 

The dignity of registration. No dispensation? Do-it-yourself dis.ister kit. Burke had nothing to kick about. How to succeed without really buying . . . borrow a Cord! Father McGrath infihrates. Secretar\- Jack Miles. Director Tom Carroll, business . . . 
Editor John Laughlin, Director Geo. Bariscilio, more. 
We see you Alan Funt! 

Frank O'Malley, lost in the translation! Fr. Leo Ward and pliilosoplicrs. And this time they were highlights. 
Profs. Piunkett and Bartholomew ponder products. '20 mixing pigskin and politics. 
Fr. Pat Dolan. Emmcit Lenihan and golden memories. 
Lank Smith, Roland Kelly and George Dickson on camera. 
Perennial Jake Kline and Leslie listen to City Slicker Balfe. Vergara, Don Miller and Fr. Joyce at '25 Champions Dinner. Bill Schmitt wins giow-in-(he-darfc contest 50-Year Club. Hank Wurzer receives ser\-ice plaque from '25 via Jolin Hurley 

f^%. 

A Symposium on Continuing Education 
with Drs. Rossini, Shuster and Bergin, after which two alumni tour new Memorial Library facilities. 
A Banquet with a smiling Fr. Hesburgh and recognition of Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong for his unending dedication. 
JUNE 11-12, 1965 

ALUMNI GOLF TOURNAMENT 
TOTAL PLAYERS: Friday 200 Plus, Saturday 300 Plus WEATHER: Ideal 
36-HOLE TOURNAMENT 

Winner: Phil  Donohue  Class  '40  Gross: 71-73 =  144  Prize:  1 dz.  Tltleist  
Runner-Up: Bill Schaller Driving Contest: Bill Schaller Runner-Up: Howard P. Foley  '40 '40 '60  Gross: 72-75—Distance:Distance:  147  272  260  Vi dz. Maxflies 4 Leather Club Covers Full Glove & Putter Cover  
18-HOLE  SENIOR  TOURNAMENT  
Classes:  1915-1920-192 5 - 1930 ­ 1935  
Winner: Bob Hellrung Runner-Up: Bob Lee Driving Contest: Dick Bloom Runner-Up: Ed Brackon Blind Bogey: Bill Seidensticker  Class  '25 Class '30 '35 '30 '35  Score—90  Gross: 40-43 =Gross: 49-40 =Distance:Distance:Hdcp. 15 Blind  83  89  220  218  Bg.  Prize: 1 doz. Titleist 1 Caddie Cart Umbrella 4 Leather Club Covers Yz dz. Maxflies —75 N.D. Golf Lighter  
18-HOLE  JUNIOR  TOURNAMENT  

Classes: 1940 - 1945 - 1950 - 1955 - 1960 Winner: Art Arquila Class '50 Gross: 38-35 = 73 Prize: 1 dz. Maxflies Runner-Up: Marrin Lewis '60 Gross: 37-40 = 77 Vi dz. Royals Driving Contest: Wayne Sullivan '60 Distance: 285 4 Leather Club Covers Runner-Up: Norv. Hunthausen •40 Distance: 260 Shag Bag & N.D. Cap Blind Bogey: Andy Lechner Class '50 Score—112 Hdcp.—38 Blind Bg. —7 4 N.D. Golf Lighter 
AND A GOLF TOURNEY 
for which you wait in line, practice putting and then happily receive the prize you always knew your game deserved. 
LTJG and Mm. GEORGE K. DISCO '61, a son, Brian KMHC, May 20. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. MARGR.WE '61, a son, Stephen Paul, July 30. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. R.-\Y '61, a son, Micliad James, June 8. .Mr. and Mrs. J. MICHAEL WHITE 'Gl, a son, Michael Conan, July 2. Lt. and Mrs. PIERRE HIROU '62, a :on. May 10. Mr. and Mis. ROBERT F. KRAUSE '62, a daughter. May 10. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. BRUT\'AX '63, a son, Robert Andrew Jr., May 26. -Mr. and Mrs. LEOXEL R. FELTEAU '63, a .>on, Leonel Richard, May 18. Lt. and Mrs. D.WID -J^. TARW.\CKI '63, a son, Michael Dand, August 13. Mr. and Mis. JU.AN CINTRO.V JR. '6t, a daughter, Maria Teresa, .August 20. Mr. and Mrs. CLARENCE H. LOEBACH '61, a daughter, July 7. 

SYMPATHY 

EDWARD T. TIGHE '24, on the death of hb wife in August. D.\XIEL J. O'.NEIL '25, on the death of his wife, August 4. JOHN F. '29 and G.-\BRIEL E. MORA.\ '32, on the death of tlieir mother, June 11. TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY '30, on the death of Ii-s mother, June 7. BERTRAM L. METZGER '31, on tlie death of his wife, June 19. WALTER JAWORSKI '32, on the death of his father, June 12. CHARLES J. PETRETIC '32, on Uie death of his wife, Mav 12. ROBERT F. HOLTZ '38, on the death of his father, June 3. WILLIAM H. JOHNSTON '44, on the death of his mother, June 20. ROBERT T. '47 and EUGE.NE FANNING '33, on the death of their mother, July 21. JOHN W. 0'BR1E.N '48, on the death of his mother. May 16. IGNAZIO CAVALLUZZI '49, on the death of his fathee this year. JOHN J. OGREN '49, on the deadl of his father, December 3, 1964. DONALD G. DEWEY '30, on the death of his father, December, 1964. THO.\lAS V. FEEXEY JR '50, on the death of his father in June. BERTRAM METZGER JR '55, on the death of his mother, June 19. JOHN G. '58 and JAMES E. HOUGH '64, on the death of their fatlier in April. THOMAS HELERINGER '62. on the death of his father in 1965. CHARLES E. RIVARD '63, on the death of his father in June. 

DEATHS 

JOHN D. CASEY '05, Chicago, Illinois, died June 11. Survivors include his son Damcl J. '33. 
DR. LEO P. VAN RIE *Q5, practicing ph>-sician and surgeon in Misha\%'aka, Indiana, for 52 years, died August 17 after an illness of several months. He is survived by t^vo daughters. 
WILLIAM J. DONOVAN '07, of Los Angeles, California, died May 10. A sister survives him. 
ROBERT L. BRACKEN LLB '08, Illinois Circuit Judge, former county judge and a Ia^%-\-cr for 50 years in Polo and Dixon, died July 29 in DL-icon, 111. 
EDWARD H. GUNSTER '09, of Wilkes-Barrc, Penns^'U'ania, is deceased according to word re­cently received in the Alumni Office- There was no date or other details given. 
FRANK C. YOXJNGERMAN '09, Dcs Moines, lowa^ died SJay 17 after a short illness. Survivois include two daughters. 
REV. EDGAR J. MISCH CSC '10, professor of religion here from 1945 to 1954, died July 13. He had taught at St. Edvs-ard's U., U. of Portland, and Gilmour Academy at Gates Mills, Ohio, before retiring to Holy Cross House on the campus. 
JOHN L. SLICK '10, Fort ^Vayne, Indiana, died January H, 1954, according to word recently re­ceived at the Alumni Office. 
COL. DALTON B. SHOURDS '11, of ifissis­appi City, Missts^ppi, died April 25 at the Biloxi Veterans Administration Hospital after a sudden and brief illness. He was a member of ilic Amer­ican Institute of Architects. Surxivors include his widow and two daughters. 
SIMEON M. KASPER '12 of Chicago, Illinois, died June 28. He is survived by his widow, one son and four daughters. 
Paul Christin, 15. son of Prof. Robert E. Christin, head of the Univcrsit>-*s freshman . English department, died May 30 after suf­fering a stab wound in the chest, while play­ing with a high-school companion. 
The two bo>"s ^vcrc uTcslIing in Paul's basement bedroom the preceding night when the companion playfully swung an opened pockctknifc at the Christin boy. He died of brain damage caused by repeated heart stoppage. 
Tlie Christins have seven remaining sons and two daughters. Paul was the second old­est of the cliildrcn. 
Many alumni who were taught by Prof. Christin may Iiavc kno%vn Paul because of the numerous social functions the professor has had for his students', "Wc join with all these in extending s>inpaihies and prayers to the Christin family. 

VERV REV. .MSGR. JULIA.\* F. DOKTOR *13, pastor of St. Stanblaus Catholic Church in Mich­igan City, Indiana, died May 14 in the hospital where he had been since May 2 when he collapsed while celebrating Mass in the church. He is sur­\ived by two brothers and a sister. 
EMMETT KEEFE '14 of Chicago, Illinois, died September 11 after a long illness. He was an engineer in the research and development dcpt. of the Pullman Co. for many years. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter. 
EMIL J. RIEDMAN '14, is deceased according to word recently received in the Alumm Office. No Otiier details %vcrc given. 
FR.\NK J. HISS '16, former owner of Superior Coal Co. in South Bend, Indiana, and a resident of Wakarusa, Ind., for 18 montlis, died June 20, in University Hospital at Ann Arbor, Mich., where he had been for two weeks. Survivors include his wife, a son Bernard *40 and two daughters. 
WILLIAM H. SUSEN '16, of Lakcwood, Ohio, and formerly Park Ridge, 111., died May 30. He was chairman of the board of tlie Phoenix Dye works. Survivors include his wife, son and daughter. 
S.\MUEL FEIWELL '17, South Bend, Indiana attorney, died June 5 after suffering a heart attack in his home. Surviving arc his widow, son and daughter. 
PROF. EDMUND A. SMITH, 54, fonner as^tant dean of the University's College of Bu^css Administration, died in Port­land, Ore. July 23 after surgery. He had been dean cKf the Univ. of Portland CoUegc of Business Administration since 1957. A graduate of St. John's^ Brooklyn and Co­limibia universities, Prof. Smith was a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty from 1936 to 1957, the last 12 years of which he served as assistant dean. 
BERNARD M. REGAN '17, Santa Clara, Cali­

fornia, died in December 1964, according to word 
recently received in the Alumni Office. 
LEON T. RUSSELL '17, employed by the Elec­

trical Engineer Commonwealth Association, Inc. of 
Jackson, Michigan, died October 2, 1964, according 
to word received from his widow. 
RAYMOND F. STACK '19 of Superior, Wis­

consin, has been deceased since 1954 according to 
word received from his widow. 
JAMES H. BAILEY '20, of Elizabeth, New Jer­sey, died June 21. Former dean of the college of chemistry at Columbia U. (now* Portland U.), he retired in 1961 as plant manager of the Newark di\ision of Du Pont Co. where he had been for 34 5-cars. He «-as a member of the ND Club of New Jersey-. Survivors include his widow. 
ALONZO E. FINNUP '20, of Garden City, Kan­sas, died in December of 1963 according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. 
HECTOR REY dc CASTRO '21 of Lima, Peru, 

died June 6 according to word received in the 
Alumni Office. 
JOHN A. DETTLING '21, Akron, Ohio florist, died May 31 after a long illness. He received the Akron ND Club Man of the Year award in 1950. Survivors include his wife, three sons — John J, '50, Thomas '57 and James '61 — and a daughter. 
PAUL F. DEVERS '21, retired Philadelphia, Pa., 

civil engineer, died September 6. A member of the 
ND Philadelphia Club, he is sur\ived by two 
brothers and a sister. 
WALTER A. SWEENEY '21, retired South Bend, Indiana realtor, died suddenly Slay 20 at the Veter­ans' Administration Hospital in Fort Wayne where he had been since May 2. Survivors include a brother and two sisters. 
REV. JAMES A. FOGARTY CSC '22, professor of economics at the University of Portland in Ore­gon, died of a heart attack July 7, while on a fish­ing trip at Bonneville, Ore. He taught at ND from 1932 to I94I. 
FRANK H. GILLIS '22, druggist and lifelong 

resident of Kane, Pa., died June 11 in the home 
of his daughter. 
EARL L. "CURLY" L.\MBEAU '22, founder of the Green Bay Packers and the only coach ever to win tlirec consecutive National Football League titles, died June 1. Survivors include a brother and sister. 
WILLIAM F. PURCELL '22, former vice-presi­dent of a lumber company in Kansas City, Mo., died August 27 after an illness of 18 years. He is survived by his wife. 
LEO SUTLIFFE '24 died June 28 in Cincinnati, Ohio. No other details are known. 
PETER R. KENEFICK '25, of Mankato, Minne­sota, died June 24 according to word received at the Alumni Office. Sur\ivors include his son John E. '54 
RICHARD NORBERT KAVANAUGH '26, of Portland, Oregon, died March 18 In St. Vincent's Hospital after an extended illness. 
WARD H. LEAHY '26, assistant to the vice-president of transportation in Cleveland, Ohio, for New York Central Railroad, died May 4. He is survived by a daughter, 
SR. M. LIOBA HOLZ OSB MA'27 is deceased according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. 
SR. XfARGARET KEAR.VEY IH.M MA '27, Marywood College in Scranton, Pa., has been de­ceased for some time according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. 
J. FRANCIS DRISCOLL JR '30, Flossmoor, III., died August 21 of a heart attack. He was secretary of the country club and a retired partner in a liquor firm. Survivors include his wife and four sons. 
JOHN T. HARRINGTON, '30, chief of invesd­gation at the Pratt-Whitncy Aircraft Co., Palm Beach, Florida, and former FBI Agent, died June 
2. His survivors include his wife and three sons. Burial was in South Bend, Indiana. 
CHARLES J. KENNEDY '30 of Palos Verdes Estates, Calif., is deceased. No other details were given. 
SR. M. ISABEL McCARTHY SSJ MA '30, of Hutchinson, Kansas, is deceased. No other details are knou-n. 
REV. JOHN P. O'CONNELL CSC '30, formei­ly a member of the Holy Cross Fathers Mission Band and the ND faculty, died June 21 in Holy Cross House at ND. 
JOSEPH LEO RAFTER '30, is deceased according to mail rcttumcd to the Alumni Office. JOHN C. REDGATE '30, Bridgeport, Connecti­cut, died May 19. 
HAROLD L. BENNETT '31, of Cuyalioga Falls, Ohio, died July 31 of a heart attack in his home. Burial was in Mishav%'aka, Ind. 
RAYlfOND P. BOYCE '31, of West Hempstead, 

40 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
Long Island, N.Y., died August 13. He was a Wctim of multiple sclerosis for 25 years. 
H. GILBERT SEAiL\N '31, Chicago, Illinois in­surance broker, died June 27. Surviving are his wdow and four children including Michael G. '59. 
JOHN C. SHIVELY *31 died September 5 in New Orleans, La., after an extended illness. Sur­vivors include two sons and a daughter. 
PHILIP COYLE '32 died in July. He is sur\-ivcd by a daughter. JA.MES J. LEWIS '32, of Chevy Chase, Md., died in June. He is survived by his widow. 
SR. M. a\LLISTA O'SULLIVAN MA '32, at St. Tliercsa's School, Hutchinson, Kansas, is de­ceased according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
VIRGILIUS A. PHILLIPS '32, San Mateo, Calif., died in June. No other details are known. SR. M. GERALDINE WARNER SSJ MA '32, Nazareth College, Rochester, N.Y., is deceased. 
JOSEPH W. FULLEM '33, of Bytvood, Upper Darby, Pa., died February 22. No details were given. 
EUGENE L. MALLEY '33, Havcrstraw, N.Y., died April 16, according to word received in the Alumni Oflice. 
WILLLVM E. DOYLE '34, Milwaukee, \Visconsrn regional sales supervisor for Mais, Inc. (candy mfrs.), died May 6. Survivors are his widow and a son, who is attending the MiUraukec diocese preparatory' semtnarj*. 
SR. M. GERALDINE SSJ MS '35, Wichita, Kansas, is deceased according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
RAYMO.N'D M. GEREND '35, Milwaukee, Wis., funeral director, died August 19. Survivors include his wife, three sons (Jacob M. '62), and a daughter. 
DANIEL JOHN YOUNGERMAN '35, vice-president of the Sylvania Corp. at Wobum, Massa­chusetts, died on June 1. A former South Bend, Indiana resident, where burial took place, he was living in Lexington at the time of hts death. He v%'as president of the ND Class of '35. His wife and tlirec daughters survive liim. 
FRANCIS J. GAUL '36, former assistant football coach at John Carroll U., died July 12 in an Ohio VA Hospital. He had been bedridden since 1958 with emphysema. Survivors include his widow, a daughter, two sons, and Frank Jr. '65. 
WILLIAM J. SHARP JR '37, Leawood, Kansas, died June 30. He had been employed by the Inter­national Paper Co. for 25 years. He was an ND Parents Chairman. Survivors include his widow and son, William III, a Junior at ND this fall. 
NLAURICE FR.-\NK LLB '39, South Bend, Ind., attorney, died August 21. He is survived by his wife and five sons. 
RALPH B. MAZ.\R '39, of South Bend, Ind., died July 24. He worked for the sales and mer­chandising div. of Swift & Co. He was a member of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus. He was single at the time of his death. Survivors include two brothers and a sister. 
ROBERT M. DOUGHERTY '40, of RockviHc Centre, New York, died March 27 of coronarv­arrest. He is survived by his widow. 
MATTHEW J. MIHOLICK '41, Soutli Bend, Indiana teacher, died June 28 after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, a son and three daughters. 
UGO D. ROSSI '42, assistant vice-president of Southern California Mortgage Loan Corp., San Diego, died June 25. Survivors include his wife, two sons and three daughters. 
JAMES LOUIS TORRENCE '44, of AfTton, Mis­souri, died in 1963 according to word recently received in the Alumni Office. 
REV. RICHARD P. HEYL MA'56, Captain USN at Aiea, Hawaii, died April 21. He is survived by his mother. 
JOHN T. TOOHEY '65, Chicigo, Illinois, died May 25 of cancer. He is survived by his widoiv. 
RT. REV. MSGR. GERALD B. PHELAN, former director of the Mediaeval Institute at ND and head of the philosophy department, died May 30 in a Toronto, Ontario, Canada hospital. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
Walter L. CaemcDts Tower Bnildii^ South Bend, Ind. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS POYNT DOWNING '14, STEPHEN HERR '10, HARRY KIRK '13, FRED MEIFELD '12, D. M. NIGRO '14, DAN O'CONNOR '05. JAMES W. 
O'HARA '13, WILLIAM REDDEN '14, BILL SCHiHTT '10, CLAUDE SORG '10, LEO ZGODZINSKI '14. 
From the Alumni Office: FATHER PETER P. FORRESTAL CSC .^B 'II, professor emeritus of Spanish and Spanish literature at the University, celebrated the Golden Jubilee of his ordination, June 25, 1915. DR. ARTHUR R. KNAUF of Tampa, Fla., died recently m a Gainesville, Fla,, health center. Al­though a graduate of U. of Wisconsin, he attended the ND Preparatory School, graduating In 1909. 
•|C Albert A. Kuhle 117 Sunset Ave, La Grange, IlL 60525 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
LENNOX ARMSTRONG, ALVIN BERGER, WILLIAM CARROLL, REV. PATRICK DOLAN CSC, EDWARD GUSHURST, JOSEPH HE.\LY. 
L.D. KEESLAR, RAYMOND KELLY, JOSEPH KE.\.VEY, ALBERT KUHLE, EMMETT LENI­HAN, H,\ROLD MUNGER, JOHN O'DONNELL, NOR.\IAN RANSTEAD, EDWARD RIELY. 
BOB RO.ACH reported early in April that in and around Muscatine, lou-a, they have been buried in snow all winter. Bob has had great interest in making our Golden Jubilee an outstanding success. 
A letter in April from L.D. KEESLxVR of Fort Myers, Fla., disclosed that he was having some difficulty with his vision. However, he did say that he was responding to treatment and hoped that his plans of years standing would be realized — i.e. to attend the Golden Jubilee of the Class of 1915. 
Members of the Class will be saddened to learn that F.ATHER JOH.V J. .MARGR^VF CSC has been ill for some time and, therefore, will be unable to be with tis for the Class Reunion. Fr. Margraf is stationed at Holy Cross House, Notre Dame, Ind. I am sure he will be more than pleased to hear from his classmates. 
FATHER PATRICK H. DOLAN CSC is sta­tioned at Holy Cross House, Douglas Road, Notre 

Dame, Ind. Althoi^h he had to undergo surgery 
earlier this year, he reports that he is improving 
rapidly and looking forward to seeing the members 
of the Class who will be at Notre Dame for the 
Reunion. 
FATHER CHARLES L. DOREMUS CSC 

known to all members of the Class of 1915 resides 
in Corby Hall on campus. He, too. Is looking for­
ward to a visit with many of the alumni in June. 
M.\RCH F. WELLS, better known during his years at Notre Dame as "Prep" and the pitching member of the famous combination "Prep WeUs and Dolly Gray" wrote to us in a recent note telling us that he ^rill be with us for the Golden Jubilee Reunion. Prep resides at 1901 E. Taylor, Blooming­ton, III. 
Following arc excerpts of a newsy letter from HENRY B. SNYDER LLB-LLM who resides at 18058 Lorenz Ave., Lansing, IlL He was a self-styled "Day-Dodger" and, therefore, did not gain a wide acquaintance on campus. He obtained his degrees in 1915 and 1916. He recalled a close friendship with COL. HOYNES and FATHER O'DONNELL who later became President of the University of Notre Dame. "I practiced law for a while, attended Officers' School at Purdue Univer­sity and vv-as in three battles overseas. However, none of the 500 candidates ever got their officer­ship. Did attend Sorbonne University in Paris for four months in 1919. Saw President Wilson, SeiL of State Lansing and Colonel House over there." /Vfter practicing law in Gary and Hammond, Ind., for 12 years, he became active in organization work, fund-raising for commercial concerns, civic groups and social welfare. He has been retired for eight years and lives itith Mrs. Snyder jn Lansing. The Snyders have a married daughter who has three bo>-s and a girl and resides in Hammond, Ind. A son, who is with the Martin Co., Orlando, Fla., has twin boys almost five years old and an­other son nine months. The Snyders' younger daughter's husband is an official of the Raymond Concrete Pile Co, They have resided in Norfolk, Va., where he surveyed the tunnel at the bay. They arc now located in New York City, the head­quarters of Raymond Co. Barring unforeseen cir­cumstances H. B. SNYDER hopes to be with us at Notre Dame for the reunion. 
CLASS OF  1915 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 41 
Edward J. McOskcr 
•17 
525 N. Mdrosc Ave. Elgin, ni. 
REUNION' REGISTRANTS WILLIAM GRADY, BERNARD J. VOLL. 
From Uic Alumm OfHcc: 

PAUL FOGARTY and his \Wfc Elizabeth arc tourins Europe but have planned to be back in New York for the October 9 XD-Army ganic. 
BILL GRADY SR.'s son. Bill Jr.. died in Dallas in June of cancer, leaving his wife, Gwcn, and four-year-old Patrick. Our condolences to Bill Sr. and his son's family. 
BERNARD J. VOLL uas appointed by Gov. Roger Branigtn to the Indiana Economic Develop­ment Authority created by the 1965 Indiana Gen­eral Assembly. Tlie authority will supervise a $1,000,000 fund to attract and develop new indus­tr\- for Indiana. 
*lf i George Waagc 
•O 3305 Wrighhvood Ave Chicago, JSL 
REUNION REGISTR.\.Vr GEORGE WAAGE. 

Our birthdav reports show; REV. GEORGE HOLDERITH CSC of Alumni Hall, N.D.. Mav 24; FRED L. STEERS '14 LLB of 1910 W. ]07ih. Chicago, May 27; NORBERT G. MONNl.NG of 515 Union Bldg.. Knoxville, Tcnn.. June 6; .AN­THON'Y C. F.•\SEN^n*ER '14 '16, address un­known. June 8; FlUNK B. MARSHALL '14 '16, 2612 Washington Ave, Santa Monica, Cah'f., Aug. 
9. If \vc missed your birthday, drop us a line so we can update our records. It'll be a pleasure to hear from you. 
My first stop going south was — vou mav guess 

—
 to call on FR. CH.-\RLES U*ILLI.AMS,'at St. Malachy's Rector>- in Rantoul, III. My phone call to Fatlicr Williams resulted in a command to come right over and ''free load" in the school cafeteria 

—
 which is also used as a g>-m. Fr. Williams has a brand-new scliool of which he is proud, and justly so. 


My first ovcmisht stop was at Robinson, 111, If I didn't stop BILL BRADBURY and his brother ST.AN — uho is State's .Att'y — would have the sheriflT after mc. You really should sec the ofiice of this Presbyterian — looks like an indoor Grotto. Religious statues, Rocknc bust, campus pictures and ND cliair. He's also tr>-inff to get on the right side of Fr. Williams by sending Fatlicr his picture, 
Tlic day of FRANK REESE's funeral Bradbur>­had tlic local radio station play the Victor\- Marcli, and quoting from Alumni Sec. J.\MES E. ARM­STRONG'S letter, "That slow version of the Vic­tory Marcli can really water up your eyes." 
Missed contacting NORBERT G. MOXXIXG of Knoxiillc, WILLIAM J. XOOXAX of Pcnsacob, Fla., and FRANCIS J. HURLEY of St. Peters­burg, Fla. Sure wish tlie\- would drop a note to me and let mc knou- they are in good Iieallh. AVe would all appreciate the contact. 
Stopped over at Winter Haven and had an en­joyable "bull session" with CMDR. CMARLIE C.\LL. Showed him the slides I had taken and learned lie and the Mrs. had attended the Florida XD convention in Nassau, 
Naturally stopped over at Orlando to sec my Corby Hall Subway roommate ER.VIE "STUFFIE" BURKE — we shared a room with "OLD DUTCH" BERGMAN, whom we believe to be ND's only four-letter man. Ernie is still the same old Icfl-Iiander who makes those South American boat trips. 
JOHN J. VOELKERS the "ole quarter miler" was pleased with my slides and had some prinu made from them. Voelkcrs and RYDZEWSKI and I plan to drive down to XD for Monogram Din­ner Jimc 10. 
Heard from WILLIAM J. AXTJRES of 410 Dorclicster Rd., Rochester, N.Y. "Finrt let me thank you very mucli for sending mc SHER­H'OOD DIXO.V's and BILL BRADBURVs letters. I kneiv Sher^vood better than Bill for the reason that Sherwood played football and I saw him daily and have seen him quite a few tlmcs^ since. Shenvood has al\\a>-s been one of my favorite people and his feet have always been firmly on the ground as anyone can see from 
HARRY C. BAUJAN '17 

Alayor Frank Somers of Dayton, Ohio, proclaimed June 15, 1965, Hart)- C. Baujan Day in Dayton: the Ohio state senate passed a resolution praising Harrj-'s con­tributions to the University of Dayton, the cit)- of Dayton and the state of Ohio; and Gov. James Rhodes sent a personal letter of thanks. 
.•Ml occurred when a Dayton sports group. 

reading his letter. Since returning trom Mexico, I have not done anything professionally but have been ver^• bus>' doing the little things and making \-arious changes necessary- to turn a new house into a home. Hope to have the older grandson enter XD the Fall of ^66 if ii-c can persuade *the powers-that-be' that they have a place for him. He will sure be disappointed, as will I, if he can't make it as it has been his aim since early diild­liood and mine even before that." Thanks, Bill, for your interesting letter, always appreciate hearing from you. Let's hear some more on how you arc coming along with your grandson and ND. I'd say it's "in the bag" knowing his grandfather. 
MORRIE STARRETT, the "ole hurdler" of 01>Tnpia, Wash., now retired, still nice enough to drop a card and let us know he is enjoying good health. 
Heard from that Dallas, Tex., man BILL GRADY. We will be looking for him on the Campus this June. 
Let me report that you won.'t have to have a benefit for your classmate LAMBERT Q. SENG. He looks great and reports he is enjoying good health. He drives a car something like my Falcon 
— both made by Ford — but his is one whose windows work by buttons and you keep them dosed when it is warm. Guess Lambert's car cost a little more than mine — it's one of those called Continental. Hope to take a ride in it as he promised that he'd like to drive down with his >vife and call on SHERWOOD DIXON. Guess he flics low in his car as Bert says Drfon, III., is but a couple of hours away. Great if GEORGE E. HARBERT and his Mrs. would drive up and we all had lundi together. Honestly Seng and I had a ixally good old-fashioned talk. Bert had a good slorj- about BUTCH H'HIPPLE walking the dog around the campus — broom for gun — his cape Butch got from BROTHER "HUGHIE." Looking forward to enjoying Seng's company again real soon — when I'll listen more carefully and report some of his Campus stories. 
Regret tliat I have not heard from more of you 

the .•Vgonis Club, sponsored a dinner to honor the "Blond Beast." 
Harn-, one of Rockne's boys as a player and a teammate, has been football, basket­ball and baseball coach and director of athletics at the University of Dayton. He is now a consultant to athletic programs at the universit}-. 
He went to Dayton in 1922 as assistant football coach under Van Hill and assumed the head coaching position for the football, basketball and baseball teams in the 1923-24 school year. In his first game as a college coach the Dayton team ran by Indiana Cen­tral, 161-0. 
In 21 seasons of football he posted a 164-64 record with only three losing seasons, and they were all 4-5. He coached five basketball teams and 23 baseball squads, with two undefeated seasons on the dia­mond. 
For these feats and more, 600 friends, teammates, players and cit>- and universit)­officials gathered to honor Harry Baujan once more. 
He has been honored many times before by other groups, capturing the Knute Rockne Clubs of America Award for athletic director of the year in 1962. The year before the University of Dayton had renamed the football stadium Baujan Field. In 1962 he also was named to Helms .Athletic Foundation Hall of Fame — as a coach, a player and an athletic director. 
In 1963 he was nominated to the Na­tional Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. 
He has sen-ed on the Boxing Commission, the .•\mateur Baseball Commission and the Dayton Playgrounds Committee. 
'ISers. If any one of you have news about the other guy, let us know. Good health for 100 years. 
Theodore C RadcmalEer 
'19 
Peru Foundry Go. 
Peru, Ind. 

From the Alumni Office: REV. FR.ANCIS WTSS CSC reports from Solc­pur^ East Pakistan, that a spring hurricane rav­aged the area, tearing the roofs from the convent and the rectory and damaging parishioners' homes, but no serious injuries were sufTercd. 
James H. Rjian 
'20 
170 Maybrook Rd. 
Rocbester, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

JOHN B.ALFE, RiVLPH BERGMAN, LEONARD CALL. P.AUL CO.V.\GHAX, REV. JA.MES CO.X­XERTOX CSC, EDWARD DORAX, REV. FR.AN­CIS GOODALL CSC. EDWARD LALLEY, HU.MPHREY LESLIE, REV. STANLEY LISEW­SKI CSC, P.-VUL LOOSEN, EDW.ARD MADIGAX, CLEMEXT MULHOLLAND, HARRY NESTER, CLIFFORD O'SULLIVAN, JOSEPH ROSEX-, THAL, ALFRED RYAN, JAMES RYAN, PAUL STICELBER, MAURICE THORXTOX, JAMES TRANT, ALBERT UEBBING. 
From the Alumni Office: DR. M.AURICE THORNTON was honored recently at a testimonial dinner when he retired as director of the department of radiology at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. Dr. Thorn­ton was the hospital's first intern and became , president of the medical slafT in 1939-60. He will remain as a consultant to the radiolog>- depart­ment. He was congratulated at the dinner by 
A. J. PORTA '25, president of the lay advisory board of the hospital. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
CLASS 
Dan W. Dufify 
•21 1030 National City E. 6th BIdg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

From the Alumn! Oflice: JOH.V N. CLASCY has retired as assistant director of tlic speech cHnic and director of the speech-improvement camp at the U. of Michigan. John and Mrs. Clancy founded the camp in 1932 as a private venture to educate and train young boys with speech problems. The ClancN's have trained more than 1,300 bo>-s in their years there. 
G. A. "Kid" Adic 
•22 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: MISS ANTOINETTE SE.MORTIER, one of a few women to hold undergraduate degrees from the University, has retired as mathematics teach­er at South Bend's Central High School. She joined the high-school faculty in 1928 and gained her MA at ND in 1931. FRED B. DRESSEL has joined with D.WID 
L. MATTHEWS '52 in forming the law firm of Matthews & Dresscl. Both have practiced law in South Bend since their graduation from ND. 
Judge AL M. HECK of San Antonio, Tex., writes of helping the Sisters of Charity of the In­carnate Word in a five-year fight with the city over a proposed freeway to cut through their In­carnate Word College campus. Judge Keck reports the sisters were originally offered 573.000 for 17 acres, but after years In courts received $1,200,000 
— enough to build a new high school complete with a pedestrian bridge across the freeway. 
•^^ Louis V. Bruggner 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A South Bend, Ind. 

From the Alumni Office: REV. LEO R. WARD CSC, professor emeritus of philosophy at the University, was the com­mencement speaker for the graduation exercises following the summer session this year. Fr. Ward told the 425 graduates that working for Christian unity was not enough, that we must work for the unity of all mankind. 
^^A James R. Median 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 
REUNION REG1STRA.\T P.\UL KENNEDY. 

From the Alumn! Office: REV. RAYMOND PIEPER CSC has been ad­vanced to the rank of professor of English at the 
 OF 1920 
U. of Portland, where he has been a member of the facult>- since 1949. 
REV. THO.\r.\S A. KELLY CSC uas recog­nized by the U. of Portland for his 10 years' work on the faculty as a professor of classics. 
*25 ^°^ ^' ^'"•'y 
2083 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 

REUNION REGISTR,\NTS RICHARD APP, JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, JOHN A. BARTLEY, WILLIAM R. BELL, JEROME BEXNING, GEORGE A. BISCHOFF, 
JOHN E. KENNEY '21 

John E. Kcnney '21 recently was elected chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Foster Wheeler Corp. it was an­nounced by the board of directors following the annual meeting. Jack was formerly president. 
LEO J. BOETTINGER, MAURICE BOLAND, 
JOSEPH BURKE, C. J. aALDWELL, CHARLES 
J. CASEY, LAWRENCE T. CASEY, HERMAN G. 
CENTLIVRE, CHARLES C. COLLINS, THOMAS 
COMAN, KARL J. CONNELL, STTEVEN COR­
BOY, JOHN COURTNEY, WALTER J. GYR, 
WILLIAM V. DIELMANN, LEONARD DOR­
SCHEL, JOHN R. DROEGE, VIRGII, PAGAN, 
ROBERT K. GORDON, J. LEO GRACE, BUT­
TON GRIFFIN, C. P. HAFEL, C. S. HAGERTY, 
JOSEPH HAGERTY, WALTER HALL, CLAR­
ENCE HARDING, JOSEPH HARMON, FRANK 
HOU'LiXND, JOHN P. HURLEY, ROBERT HUR­
LEY, WILLIAM C. HURLEY, JOHN J. KANE, 
BERNARD KESTING, JOHN F. KILKENNY. 
GEORGE LAUGHLIN, ELMER LAYDEN, BER­
NARD W. LEY, BERNARD LIVERGOOD, 
GEORGE LUDWIG, REV. JOH.V LYNCH CSC, 
JOHN D. M.AHON, HE.NRY McAD.AMS, FRAN­
CIS McF..\DDEN, FR.ANK McSORLEY, ^VILLIAM 
E. MERRIMA.V, DONALD ^^LLER, GERALD MILLER, JOSEPH MILLER, ^VILLIAM R. MOLOXY, JOHN MOR.AN, CHARLES -MOUCH, FRANK MURRAY, JOHN A. NOPPENBERGER, EUGENE O'ROURKE, EDWARD F. OTOOLE, EDMUND POLHAUS, A. J. PORTA, LEO J. POWERS, PAUL ROMWEBER, ROBERT ROSS, JOHN W. • SCALLAN, GILBERT SCHAEFER, GEORGE A. SCHWARZ, WILLI.AM SEIDEN­STICKER, ALBERT SOMMER, CARL B. SPRENGER, FRANK STEEL, RAY TILL^L^N, 
J. J. TOOLEN, JOHN P. TRAYNOR, GILBERT UHL, GEORGE VERGARA, WILLIAM E. VOOR, WILFORD W.ALZ, JOH.N E. WHITE, J.AMES W. WRAPE. HE.NRY WURZER, REV. CL.ARENCE YErVGER. 
Tlie 40tli Reunion of the Class of 1925 ^\'as one of the best, both for attendance and activities, x\ hundred were present at our Class banquet and the theme A\'as a special tribute to the Rose Bowl Champions. 
DON MILLER opened the program and intro­duced AL RYAN '20, who did a superb job" as Toastmaster. (AI was Alumni Sec, and in ROCKNE's ofHce at that time.) 
GEORGE STRICKLER '25, asst. sports editor of The Chicago Tribune, told how he "put the horses under the Horsemen." H. W. "HUNK" 
Foster Wheeler, a worldwide organization with subsidiaries and licensees in 14 coun­tries, designs, fabricates and constructs proc­ess plants and steam generating equipment for petroleum refiners, chemical producers, public utilities and shipbuilders. Corporate headquarters are at Livingston, N.J. 
Jack joined Foster Wheeler in 1922, starting as an engineer trainee before be­coming a service engineer on the road and a salesman in the New York office. In 1940 he ^vas made Midwestern regional sales manager, and five years later elected vice-president. In 1958 he was made executi%-e vice-president and returned to New York. In the following year he was elected to the board of directors and, toward the close of the year, named president and chief ex­ecutive officer. 
In addition to his years at ND, Jack stud­ied at Carnegie Institute of Technology and holds a BS degree in mechanical engi­neering. He is a director of the Bank of Commerce of NYC, the Liberty Mutual In­surance Co. of Boston, Skil Corp. of Chi­cago, Bradford Speed Packaging and De­velopment Corp. of Washington, D.C., and Elcctrographic Corp. of New York. 
Jack is a member of the American Insti­tute of Chemical Engineers, .American So­ciety of Mechanical Engineers, American Petroleum Institute, ."Vmerican Bureau of Shipping, Economic Club, Newcomen So­ciety, Tau Beta PI and Phi Kappa Psi, and is a licensed professional engineer in New York, Illinois and Florida. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 43 
- /#• -^ 
4-r^ 

ANDER50X related his experiences as assistant to Rockne. ARA PARSEGHIAN gave us an idea of what to expect this fall. GEORGE VER­GARA spoke of his da\'5 as freshman coach. JIM ARMSTRONG present^ HEXRY WURZER a ivcll-dcserxed plaque for his work through tlic years as class treasurer and custodian of our Slass fund. Hank and Jim were the bey men in making our banquet such a success. JIM CROW­LEY'S rendjiion of "Rocknc's pep talk" was terrific REV. EDMUXD P. JOYCE CSC the man who gave us Ara, spoke and the "piece de resistance" was \VARREN BRO\N'X, who came out of retirement to be with us. He truly was one of the great sports writers of all time and still has plenty of spark as a speaker. EDW.-UU) "MOOSE" KRAUSE presented Warren Brown with a monogram jacket from the Mono­gram Club, thus ending a truly wonderful evening. 
Hie usual bull sessions prevailed over the entire weekend. Saturday's Class Mass ^^'as well at­tended. FATHER JOHN LYNCH '25, said the Mass. JACK SCALUAN screed and LARRY CASEY took up the collection. 
Saturday's Alumni Banquet ^vith FATHER HESBURGH's inspiring talk made it a weekend to be long remembered. 
From the Alumni Office: 

Condolences and prayers arc extended to D.^NIEL J. O'NEIL on the dcatli of his wife August 5 in New York City. 
HAROLD F. HALL writes a nice letter from Catholic magazine subscription agcnc>- and gift shop in White Plains, N.Y. He writes: 
"We have a couple of other 1925 graduates here in WTiite Plains, >nCHAEL ADRL-\X and ^^cLE.•^H BRULE . Both graduated in electrical en­gineering and arc currently with Weslinghousc and General Electric 
"I roomed at school ^rith Brule and I only accidentally bumped into him at churdi one Sun­day in tlic approximate six years that I have lived here in UTiitc l*lains. (My wUe reminds me that 
•wc have lived here over nine years •— you can see how my memory is slipping!) Incidentally, I met her at tlie dance in the Vanderbilt Hotel in 1926 after the Army-Xotre Dame game. . . . She went to the U. of Illinois and still thinks that Red Grange and his team could have beaten our Four Horsemen!" 
•n z Frank A. Dcitlc 1763 Kcsslcr Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 
REUXIOX REGISTRANTS WILLIAM R. BARR, ARTHUR HALEY. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Came across a book review by WALTER 
TROHAN in the Chicago Tribune recently. Walt, 
who is chief of the Tribune's Washington bureau, 
CLASS OF 1925 

also is a member of the Liberal and Fine Arts Advisorv Council at ND. 
J. ARTHUR HALEY is co-chairman of a South Bend committee to bring the Metropolitan Opera National Company to South Bend during the coming year. 
GERALD W. HA'V'ES reported from Montclair, N.J., that his son, Giles Peter Hayes, was or­dained a Benedictine priest In May. 
FRANK DEITLE's son James received his Holy Cross habit in .August at the Sacred Heart Novitiate in Jordan, Minn. 
REV. HOWARD J. KEX.NA CSC, pronndal superior of the Indiana prorince of the Holy 
Cross Fathers, toured the missions ot the order 
in Uganda during August. 
1^ 7 Clarence J. Ruddy 
• ' 32 S. River Street Aurora, HI. 
REUNION REGISTR.\N*TS JOHN \V. ROACH, HERB JONES. 
From the .-Mumni Office: 

.'\t last word, M.-\X CONRAD was continuing on his 9,000-milc flight from St. Lotus to Nairobi, Kcn>-a, East Africa, to deliver a single-engine plane to the missions there. The last neu's re­lease placed him on his way from Norwood, Mass., to Gander, Newfoundland. Conrad has flown the Atlantic 125 times in light planes. He has crossed the Pacific 21 times. 
'9St ^nis F. Buckley 
68-10 108th St. 
Forest Hills, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTR-ANT PHILIP CEXEDELL.\. 
FROM PRESIDENT BERNARD GARBER 

.A.t one of the Challenge II dinners in NYC, the '28 Class was represented by LOUIS "BUCK" BUCKLEY, GEORGE CRONGE^'ER and BERN GARBER. 
With Pauline, Buck then went off in ^fay to Ireland and Sweden, visiting ancestral lands. With them was son Tim, one of the first ar­rested in Sclma with the Chicago clcrg>'. At Shannon aiiport llie Buckleys encountered BILL BROWN and his wife who were on their way to Spain. 
Buck has been elected president of the New York Chapter of the Industrial Relations Re­search Association. The April 1965 Catholic Mtnd carried his article on *'Automation—Master or Ser\"ant.** Lou also wrote ^'Economic Pressures on the Family" as a chapter in the Fordham 
Press book Marriage—a Psychological and Moral 
Approach edited by ^Villiam C. Bier SJ. It should be good—the '28 Class has had lots of pressures! 
VIXCE CARNEY abandoned the Buckleys one night to have dinner with me. He was interested .to hear my son Michael had chosen the U. of Toronto (St. Micliael's) over ND. Vince has a son attending Toronto and a daughter who is a graduate. Another daughter won a National Merit scholarship this year, entering college in Sep­tember. 
JOHN HERBERT, someone told me, is sales manager for Will & Baumer, candle manufac­turers, John lives in Necdham, Mass. 
In La Crosse, AUGIE GRAMS was plagued during May by an injured foot and the flooding of his warehouses and plants by "Old Man Rii'cr," the Afississippi. 
FATHER MARK FITZGERALD, director of the industrial relations section of the Univer­sity's economics department, was chairman of a sjmposium on Pacem in Terris In May. In a panel discussion on *'Afcc£ing RcsponsIbiHtics in the Modem World," Lou Buckley spoke on per­sonal participation. Lou is regional administrator, 
U.S. Bureau of £mplo\inent Security for New York City. 
In February' I sent a letter to our classmates with an up-to-date *28 Roster, prepared by the Alumm Office, w*hicli asked in return for any changes in address. It noted also (on page 9} the names of 33 men whose mail is being returned unclaimed. Can you proWdc the addresses of any? Page 10 listed almost 100 deceased classmates. 
From California's Sunland LESTER M. FLE­WELLING reports he Is now general agent of Beneficial Insurance Co. Preriously he was execu­tive secretary. Southern Calif. State Dental Laboratory Society. His son Roderick Is a '56 graduate of Glendalc College, while his daughter will be a grad of Mount St. Mary's of Brentwood in '68 (our 40th reunion year). Les was president of both the Sunland Democratic Club and the As­sociation Executive Conference of Los Angeles. Les hears from CHARLES DUCEY and GENE FAR­RELL but notes the deaths by the end of '64- of FRANK CANE, FRANK OLSEN, JEROME HIG­GINS and TERRENCE HALLORAN, all ND alumni and issociated in boys' work in Los Angeles. 
FATHER JIM McSHANE says BOB CAPESIUS had surgerj' on his eyes with a great improvement In sight. Bob also wrote me that he had been blind seven years but can now sec, read, write and u-atcli TV. Of Bob's children the oldest graduated from IIT, the second from DePaul, the third from Loyola of Chicago and the fourth is at Illinois. Bob has two grandcliildren. 
JAMES M.\URICE INGRAM, architect and engineer, WTotc from Louis\-illc that he expected to make the So. Cal game and party, bringing his wife and three grandsons. His son is ND '54. 
JOHN IGOE has given up contracting and is notv on a new career ^rith Bernard & Co., Colum­bus stockbrokers. Son Dan is ND '65 and son KeWn is ND '67. Jack Is extra active in ND and Catholic affairs, being trustee of St. Charles Bor­
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September'October, 1965 
romeo College, district governor iif Serra Inter­national, director of the Association for Human Emergence. He regularly sees TOM HART, FON­TANA, KINXEARY, JOHM MURPHV. He had just tallted with JIM SHOCKNESSY in charge of building the North-South Frccu*ay, due into Cleve­land thb summer. Igoc reports that NORB SEI­DEXSTICKER retired from Mead Paper; has a son ND *66. John writes he is thankful over and over to be part of the Class of *28 and wishes he could hear from every, member. He expects to at­, tend the So. Cal party at ND and Uic Army party 
• in NYC. JOHN FOXTANA also expects to malic the Army game in NYC. He has been staff assistant to Sen. Stephen M. Young of Ohio since 1958. Anyone reccinng a color slide taken at our 3Sth reunion can thank GENE FARRELL who is cleaning his files in readiness for new ones to be taken in 1968. At that time be sure to sec the ex­cellent mo\-ies taken by JIM ALLAN JR. at our 35th. Those who saw them last year at the *28 cocktail party are asking for a repeat. Also at the 40th, journalists will hear GEORGE KELLEY's ccpcrienccs during an eight-month 
strike at the Youngslown Vindicator. George and others lived at the office and published every day 
— sometimes one page and other days 104 pages. George reports JOHN RICKORD was sent by . Armour Packing Co. to Russia on business. (Maybe he saw Buckley there.) 
GEORGE A. WAGNER of Perrysville, Ohio, is a retired attorney and na\'al officer. He, Scidcn­sticker, JOE BRANNON McSWEENEY — all '28 retirees, should advise the rest of us as to "how, when and where" to retire; we know "why." By the way, who else is retired? 
In St. Paul, TOM MAHOX reports Tom Jr. at St. Tliomas College and son Tim at St. Thomas Academy. He hears often from HOWIE PHALIN, BOB HAMILTON, LOU NORMAN, DON RAU. He expected to see Don (president of a state tax group) in September at St. Paul. 
S.H.A.P.E. as the return address on an envelope addressed to BERNIE GARBER seemed appropri­ate enough, but it means Society for Hispano-American Progress and is designed to aid the work of FATHER VINCE McSHANE in Honduras. If you want to contribute or join, w*ritc to ^frs. Charles Jenkins, 3521 West 40th Ave., Denver, Colo. 
r lieard JOH.V V. III.N'KEL being interviewed on the radio. Memorial Day, about his new book on Arlington National Cemetery. Sounded interesting. 
I remind you of another fine ED QUINN-managed Class of '28 party scheduled for October 23 at ND, and another *28 gathering in New York October 9 for the Army game. 
GEORGE CRONGEYER left June 4 for sl-c weeks in Ireland and Scandinavia, following the Buckleys. I remained at home, ordered by Buckley to add to his notes that a letter from iVRTHUR MILLER, Fort Wayne attorney, said his son Arthur Jr. was entering ND in September and that his daughter Sallic .'Vnn married Robert Joseph Wehrle, April 
24. Art often sees MIKE HOGAN, FRj\.NK MC­CARTHY and BERNIE SCHUH, all looking for­ward to our '68 reunion. 
JIM SHOCKNESSY was appointed to the board of trustees of Ohio State U., according to a news clip from JOHN FOXTANA, early in June. Could this, John speculated, lead to a resumption of football relations with ND? Although a Demo­crat, Jim was appointed by Republican Gov. Rhodes. 
From the Alumni Office: REV. CHARLES F. HAMEL CSC, who has been an associate professor of French at the U. of Port­land, has been transferred to the position of chap-Iain at Notre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, Calif. H.\ROLD W. RUPPEL, a former vice-president for purchasing with U. S. Truck Lines Inc., has joined Leaseway Transportation Corp. of Cleveland as coordinator of purdiasing. 
•4 A Larry Stauder EnEineeiing BIdg. Notre Dame, In<L 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

JAMES ^L CURRY, GAYLORD P. HA.\S, GEORGE McDOXNELL, CLETUS SCHNEIDER, LARRY STAUDER. 
Congratulations to LOUIS NEIZER of Fort Wa>*ne who was recently invested as a Knight of St. Gregory, an honor bestowed upon Louis by Pope Paul VI for "outstanding service to the 
B. D. BROEKER '30 
Bernarti D. Broeker '30 has been named 

vice-chairman of a newly-created seven-man 
finance committee for Bethlehem Steel 
Corp., Bethlehem, Pa. He was formerly as­
sistant vice-president for finance and law. 
After obtaining his S.\ degree from P^'otre 

Dame, Bemie attended Har\'ard Law School, 
receiving a LLB degree, cum laude, in 1933. 
He also was editor of the Harvard Law Re­
view while there. 
He was a member of the legal staff of Cravath, Swaine and Moore from 1933 to 1940, when he j'oined Bethlehem Steel as attorney in the secretar>''s office. 
He was named assistant to the secretary-in 1943 and assistant to the vice-president in 1952. He tvas named secretary and elected a corporation director in 1957, and in 1963 was appointed general counsel and vice-president for finance and law. 
He is a member of the bar of the State of New York and has been admitted to practice before the United States Supreme Court. 
Church." Louie, your award does credit to your entire ch-iss. 
FRANCIS ME\'ER, for once without his camera, stopped by the Engineering Building recently to check on the Class of '29 reunion scheduled for the Northwestern game at ND October 2. Francis visited briefly with ED QUIXN and your secre­tary and then continued on his way. 
GAY HAiVS was back in the spring for the Old-Timcrs game, for a \isit with his student son, Jeffcry, and with his many campus friends. A month later Gay was back for the reunion weekend. 
GAYLORD IL\,\S JR. '59, has inherited his father's flair for combining business with pleasure and recently visited his folks in Washington, D.C., wiiile on a patcnt-Bling jaunt from Detroit. 
We have word that TO.M L.A.VTRY '64. now with US Steel in California, will enroll at Wharton School, Philadelphia, in the fall. TOM SR. '30, and Mrs. Lantry spent several days in South Bend in mid-June. Tom visited with his reunion class­mates, including REV. LEONARD COLLINS CSC, VINCE McCUE, S.\M RICHARDS, HARRY FRANCIS, JIM FRIEL. BOB HOLMES, D.AN and JACK CAXNOX and others. . 
CLETE SCHNEIDER'S daughter used the South Shore to visit Xavicr College where she plans to 
Notre Dame 

enroll as a student nurse. Clete's nunion registia­
tlon was filed with the Class of '30, as was that 6t 
DR. GEORGE J. McDONNELL of Freehold, N.J., 
who many, including JIM CURRY, insist h the 
best MD in the state. Your secretary had the 
pleasure of sharing Dr. George's table at tlie re­
union banquet and shares the sentiments of' his 
boosters. 
ED LEACH was represented by his son LARRY 
LEACH '60. HANK BURNS, Kenmore, N.Y., had 
planned to accompany CLETE SCHNEIDER but 
had a last-minute conflict. 
BILL BRO^VN of MHwaukee and LOU BUCK­
LEY '28, were panel members on a campus seminar 
on Pacetn in Ttrris. 
REV. JOE BARRY CSC » u a commelKe­
ment visitor in honor of his graduating nephew. 
CLARE P. HAFEL '23, and his family clapped for 
EE graduate BILL HAFEL. Clare returned for ids 
45th reunion. 
Perhaps you would like these new addresses: 
FRED HAW JR., Williams Bay, Wis.; RICHARD 
K. ZIMMERLY, R.R. 2, Box 291, Indianapolis, Ind.; REV. CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE CSC, 602 
E. Uth St., Austin, Texas. 
Each reunion has its highlights; your class secre­tary has attended many. The citation read at the Alumni Banquet by L-ANCASTER SMITH '50, to honor Alumni Executive Secretary JIM ARM­STRONG '23, for his unrivaled 40 years of service to Notre Dame, and the response that it received from the audience, took first place this year. 
REMINDER: CLASS OF '29 POST-GAME GET­TOGETHER IS SCHEDULED FOR OCTOBER 
2. BRIXG YOUR FAiHLY, SEE NOTRE DAME OPEN ITS HOME SEASON AGAINST NORTH­WESTER.N. YOU WILL BE GLAD TttAT YOU CAME. 
From the Alumni Office: it. L. "LARRY" MASON has been appointed a justice of the Iowa Supreme Court by Gov. Harold Hughes in July, classmate JOSEPH E. %\'H.\LEN of Des Moines said in a letter. 
Pharmacist WILFRID J. ULLRICH was selected as 1963 recipient of the Indiana Phannaceutical Association's A. H. Robins Bowl of Hygeta award for outstanding community service. O^vner of Ull­rich Pharmacy in .Aurora, Ind., he is also a state senator and a director of the First National Bank of Aurora. 
REV. BERNARD L. McAVOY CSC has been transferred from Notre Dame to the U. of Port­land where he will be a professor of philosophy. 
JOHN V. HI.XKEL, vice-president of Kelly. Sanders-Hinkel, Inc. (public relations) in Washing­ton, D.C., has publuhed a new book, Arliittton: Monument to Heroes (Prentice-Hall). Gen. Earle Wheeler, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, wrote the foreword. John s°^ intcnicws on NBC, CBS and the Mutual Broadcasting Co. networks about the book. 
•^ A Devere Pliiiiltett O'Shamdinesr Han Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS 

ANDREW AifAN, W.ALTER R. BERNARD, MICHAEL J. BISHKO, RICHARD BLOOM, THOMAS J. BRADLEY, KARL BRENNAN, WILLIAM H. BROMANN, DANIEL CANNON, JACK CANNON. JOHN C.\SSIDY, LOUIS C. CHAPLE.AU. PATRICK CONWAY, R. A­COONEY, L. P. COTTER. LA^VRENCE CRO­XIN, FRANK CURR.AN, FRANK DRISCOLL, LEO DURLACHER. FRANK EATON, ARTHUR ERRA. PAUL FARMER, HARRY FRANCIS, JAMES FRIEL. THOM.AS FROST, HUGH GAI^ L,\GHER, JOHN W. GIBBONS, MORT GOOD­M.AN, FRANK HAMILTON, JOHN F. HEALY, P.AUL HEIDKA.MP, ROBERT HELLRimC, TIMOTHY HINCHEY, ROBERT HOLMES, THOMAS KEEGAN, THOMAS F. KENNEALLY, FR.ANK KERSJES, MARSHALL KIZER, THOM­AS LANTRY. DONALD LAURIE. JAMES a LEAHY, JA.MES E. LEAHY, FRED LENSING, 
WILLIAM J. MCCARTHY, VINCENT MCCUE, THOMAS MEDLAND, JOHN T. MORAN, THOMAS MURPHY, MARIO NARDONE, F. J.\MES NAVARRE, GEORGE O'MALIEY, TIER­NEY O'ROURKE, DEVERE PLUNKETT, JOHN QUINN, ^VILLIAM REISER, SAMUEL RICK­.ARDS, JOHN ROCAP, RICHARD SAVAGE, FRED D . SCHOPPMAN, ALBERT SHIPACASSE, 
S. F. SILVE3TRO, VERNON SLACK, ROBERT 
V. SLOAN, CHARLES S.1IALLWOOD, HOWAKO 
Alumnus, September-October, 1965 45 
SMITH, DONALD SULLIVAN. JAMES SULLI­
VAN, DONALD VOSS. JOHN VOSS. JOHN A. 

WALKER, ^\1LLIAM U'ALSH, GEORGE WEBER. 
From tlic Alumni Office: REV. EDWARD L. HESTON CSC appeared in a recent edition of Jubilee magazine in a draw­ing from tlic past session of tlic Vatican 11 coun­cil in Rome. Tlic dravnng depicted Fr. Hcston. as fluent in Latin as he is in Enclish, briefing journalists in his position as press liai^n. 
'21 ^^^^ ^' ^°^^^ 
805 W. Arcadia Ave Arcadia, Cal. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS WILLIAM 0'.\{ALLEV. JOHN McMURR.\Y. BEN 0.\KES, FRANK SVOBODA. 
From the Alumni Office: 

F.ATHER L.\WRENCE BAUER CSC in the missions at Ranikhong, East Pakistan, has taken education of the Garos into his ou-n hands. Fr. Bauer, through a number of benefactors, provides 3 high-school education for many Garo boys and girls who otherwise could not go beyond the pri­marv stage. 
DR, P.\UL "BUCKY^' O'CONNOR, a halfback on ND's 1929-30 championship football team, suf­fered a heart attack in July and was in the Prcsby­terian Hospital in West Orange. N. J., for a time. O'Connor was one of the halfbacks who switclied to fullback for Rockne's last game in 1930, a 27-0 \"ictory over Southern Cal. 
K^OL D J. STELZER of Chicago has been ap­pointed head of the Kcnmorc laundry- appliances buy­ing department in the national headquarters of Sears, Roebuck and Co. He joined Sears in 1931 after graduation, 
JOSEPH H. ROBINSON lias been named director of personnel recently of the New Departure-Hyatt Bearings Di\-ision of the General Motors Corpo­ration. 
DR. ED^VARD F. DRA\^ES of Detroit was au-ardcd the Citizen Sportsman .Award by the fourth annual National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame at a dinner last winter. Dr. Draves has at­tended high school football games for all of his 28 years in Detroit and has received honorar>' var­sity letters from eight high sdiools and letters of commendation from nine others. 
James K. Collins •32 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: 

At a dinner last May DOMINIC "NAPPY" NAPOLITANO. director of intramnra! and club sports at the University, was awarded the Mono­gram Club's Silver Bowl *'to the individual who has done the most during the past year for the campus Monogram Club." 
N.ATHAN D. .\LTM.\X, a long-time automobile executive in South Bend, is the president of the new Avanti Motor Corp. which is producing a modi­fied version of the car briefly produced by Stude­baker Corp. The Avanti II, with a liand-crafted interior to owner's specifications, has a selling price of about ?7,200, according to Altman. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 
CLASS OF 1930 
"2 2 John A. Hoyt, Jr. Gillespie & O'Connor 342 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN M. CRIXIMINS, MAURICE W. LEE, CHARLES A. CONLEY. 
AVc were grieved to learn of the death of FRANCIS J. CROWE on April 7 in Chicago. We also learned of tlic untimely passing of the wife of MICHAEL D. 0"HARA just before Easter. To both families, our sincere condolences. 
"In Paradisum Deducant Te .^ngeli" 

LEO CU-MMl.NGS on a recent trip east from Seattle visited Philadclpliia, Washington, D.C., and New York. Wliile in New York he was squired about town by BILL LYNCH — they took in the 
ROBERT E. PEQUIGNOT '30 

Robert E. Peqtjignot: has been appointed a \*ice president of Tlie Singer Co. and general manager of a new Climate Control Division which is comprised of all company operations in the electrical heating and air-conditioning fields. 
1965 

Fair and visited .Aqueduct for the Belmont Stakes. 
Before coming cast he visited DICK MEAD for the christening of Dick's first grandchild. 
M.ARTY LINSKEY hospitalized by a back injur\-^ expects to be up and about for the N.D.-Army game here in N\'C Oct. 9. 
HARRY FAULL, in his second term as mayor " of Pomona, Calif., was recently made president of the Southern California Rapid Transit District. Harry is in the solvents business and heads up the firm of Calsol, Inc., in Pomona. He sends his re­gards to Messrs. Poynton, Carroll, Coughlin, McCarthy and Faherty. 
LES R.-\DDAT2 of Taneana. California, is now writing for TV Guide, Last fall he visited N.D. for the first time in 25 years. FR. LLOYD TESKE took him for a campus tour. FRED MacBETH come down from Montreal and JIM CLARK from Jersey City for the recent wedding of LES's son ^ in New London, Conn. 
Bob had previously been a vice president of Friden, Inc., a Singer subsidiar>', and general manager of its Elcctromode opera­tion in Rochester, N.Y. The new division will consolidate Electromode operations with those of Singer's Remington Division in Auburn, N.Y. and its Easy Heat/Wirckraft business in Lakenlle, Ind. Under Bob's di­rection, its mission will be to further expand Singer's present position in the electric heating and air-conditioning industry. 
Electromode presently produces special residential, commercial and industrial elec­tric space heating equipment. Remington manufactures incremental air-conditioning systems for apartment houses, hospitals, liotels, motels, office buildings and schools, specialty air-conditioning for tropical areas, household window air-conditioners, and household and industrial dehumidifiers. Easj' Heat/Wirekraft makes electric heating tapes, cables and wiring harnesses for the refrigeration and air-conditioning industries and freeze protection devices. 
In commenting on formation of the new di\'ision. Singer President Donald P. Kircher said, "The formation of the new Climate Control Division under Mr. Pcquignot's di­rection will now give us a firm base for expansion of these activities into a substan­tial business in a rapidly growing industr>-." 
Bob has been active with Electromode in the electric space heater field since 1936. His headquarters will be in Auburn, N.Y. where Electromode and Remington opera­tions are being consolidated in a recently purchased and reno^'atcd plant. Easj' Heat/ Wirekiaft operations will remain in Indiana. 
S^i ' 

ED ECKERT's oldest son, Edward Jr., was marnt-d to Susan Updrgravc m Philadvlpliia on May 22. Ed has now joined tlie Grandfather Club 
— a granddaughter born February-1 to IiJs daugh­ter, Sally Rainka, who lives in Pluladelphia, where her husband Dick is attending dental school. 
PETE CONNELLY and CHARLIE COXLEY have been corresponding regarding a proposed meeting of 1933 lawyers — being sponsored by ^L•\URY LEE. Pete has become quite the traveler and social lion. In recent weeks he attended Kis law school reunion in Albany, a district attorney's' convention in Long Beach, N.Y., graduations and weddings in scattered parts of the cast and is ready to im-ade New York for the October 9 Army-XD game. 
BILL BODO is now the manager of one of the large Prudential Insurance oflices in the Philadelphia area. 
GEORGE ROHRS recently appointed to the Car­dinal's Committee — for Catholic Charities, is active In the oil industry-, raising funds for the worthy charity. 
.\ long note from FRED MacBETH, who resides at G4^ Russell Avenue, Mt. Royal 16, P.Q. — writ­ten after his recent x'acation in Florida (helping the US balance of pavmenis program). Fred writes that he frequentiv sees PAUL LaFROMBOISE '34, in Montreal and that ALEX WILSO.V and JIM ARM­STROXG were in town recently with the Fayette brothers from Burlington, Vt. FR^VXK SHAUGH­XESSY '06, former president of the International League, Is active in Montreal circles and Fred runs into him once in a while on the golf links. 
From the Alumni Office: 

JOHX McXAM/\RA, prindpal of the South Bend Washington High Scliool since 1952, retired after the last scIiool year because, he said, the job became too big for one man without administrative 
•assistants. In resigning John told Supt. Alex Jardine the system of principal appointments needed re­organization. 
ARTHUR X. BccVAR has been named to the board of overseers at Bellamiinc College, Louis­ville, Ky. BecVar is a member of the Liberal and Fine .-Vrts Advisory- Council of Notre Dame. 
tyA Edward F. Mansfield ^• t 733 S. Clarcmont St. San Mateo, Calif. 94402 

From the Alumni OfHce: VIXCEXT G. McALOOX, secretary- of the .-\lumni Club in Rome, writes that the ND soplio­morcs from Innsbruck Wsited Rome and "have all impressed us favorably. "A notably fine selection for the first year; no 'goofers-ofP; all gentlemen and much poise among them." Vincc also reports all traveling alumni grab the 
CLASS OF 1935 

copies of the Dome a\'ailab!c there to show off to traveling Companions. 
FR,\XK L. LIXTOX, vice-president and comp­troller of the .\llied Chemical Corp.. Xew York, has been renamed a trustee of the Financial Execu­tives Research Institute. Frank also is a member of the Liberal and Fine Arts Advisory Council at the University. 
Francis T. McGiiire 
•35 Vice President for Special Projects Notre Dame, Ind. 
REUNION- REGISTR.VXTS JOHN" AXN<\S. RICHARD BALLIET, JOSEPH 

F. BECEK. JOSEPH BECK. U'lLLI.AK P. BER­XARD, \VILU.-\.M R. BERNARD, WILLLVM BERXBROCK, JOSEPH BITTNER, EDWARD BRACKEN, R.\YMOND BRODERICK, BRO. FERGUS BURNS CSC. JOHN C. CARESIO, ARTHUR CAREY, VICTOR C.VRTO.V, CHESTER 
PRESENTS CHECK —Alfred Mansour (left), president of the Notre Dame Club of Flint, presents a check to Dr. Lawrence H. Baldinger, associate dean of the College of Science and head of the department of pre­professional studies, for the University's Foundation. 
J. CHANDLER, LIBORIO CIFRESE, JOHN CLARK. J.AMES COLLER.\N, .ARTHUR L. CON­RAD, REV. JAMES CORRIG.AN, JOHN COR­RIG.AN, .NEIL CROWLEY, .ANTHONY CROW. LEY, EDW.ARD CULLE.V, JEROME CUSHING, ALFRED D'AMORA. ARTHUR DE.MERS, GEORGE DEMETRIO, FR.\NCIS DINEEX, WILLIAM DONAHUE, JOHN DUFFEY, FRAN­CIS DU.NN, JOHN EDW.ARDS, J. M. FAIR­HEAD, DO.VALD FELTS, P.ATRICK FISHER, JOSEPH FrrZM-AURICE, JOHN FITZPATRICK, THONL\S W. FLY.VN, NOR.MAN J. FREDER­ICKS, KARL FULNECKY, .MICH.AEL GAUL, E.MILIO GERVASIO, S.\LV,ATORE GIOE, WIL­LL\M GORGEN, ARNOLD HACKENBRUCH, JOHN HALLBERG, JAMES H.AMILTON, NOR­BERT HART, WILLLA.M HEARN, PHILIP HEINLE, ROBERT L. HE.\NEBERGER, JOHN 
D. HEYWOOD, THO.M.AS J. HILS, CECIL J. HOBERT, JAMES R. HOWARD, RICH.ARD HYDE, J.AMES JENNI.NGS, JOSEPH A. JOHN, WILLIAM KEEFE, WILLIAM A. KENNEDY, PHILIP KIRLEY, W. J. KORTH, GEORGE KRUG, A.NTHOXY KUH^VRICH, VICTOR J. KURZWEG, ALBERT L.AWTO.N, ROBERT LEE, EDW.ARD LeJEUNE, L. DO.N LOPKER, PAT­RICK J. LYNCH, JA.MES MacDEVFTT, ANDREW M.AFFEI. FRA.VK G. M.AT.AVOSKY, JOHN B. .McARDLE. J. V. JfcAVE.\EY, JOH.V -McDON-XELL, FRANCIS -McGUIRE, WILLIAM E. .MILLER, C. R. MONTGO.MERY, -ARNOLD V. -MORRISON, HERBERT L. NADE.AU, JOHN F. NOVAK, BER-\ARD O'BRIEN, JAMES P. O'ME-ARA, JOSEPH OTT, WILLIAM OTTE, THONLAS OWEN, JOHN PETTINGILL, JAMES PICK. C. J. PICK.ARD, JOHN POGUE, JOHN PORCORO, PHILIP PURCELL, GER-ALD RANK, ROBERT F. ROGERS, -MATTHEW RONZONE, M.ATT S.AG.ARTZ, MICHAEL S.ANTULLI, CHARLES -M. SCHILL, JAMES SEV.MOUR, ELI J. SH.AHEEN, ROBERT SHIELDS, JAMES 
H. SHEILS, EDWARD SKEEHAX, LAWRENXE SMITH, THOM.AS STRINGER, J.AMES J. SUL­LIVA.V, THOM.AS THO.MPSON, NORBERT TOUSSAINT, E. J. VAN HUISSELING, FR.ANK VEE, EDWARD F. VYZR.AL, .ADRI.AN WACKER­.M.AN, JOSEPH T. W-ASHKO, CARL WEBER, THO.M.AS WELCH, C. T. WILLI.AMSE-V, JO­SEPH WISCHNIA, EUGENE WITCHGER, LIN­COLN WURZER, ORLAND Y-ATES. , 
TIic 30tli reunion w-as great and wc wish that all could have been here to enjoy the fellowship. The early Indiana summer weather was superb and the campus never more beautiful. 
The class officers elected were PAUL FERGUS, president; ED SMITH, treasurer; and F. T. Mc­GUIRE, secretary. 
All of us were saddened indeed by the loss of our president, DAN YOUNGERMAN, just a week before reunion'. The Class of '35 owes a great debt to Dan Youngerman for his devoted leadership. At reunion weekend plans were developed to establish 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 47 
a scholarship in his honor. You will be hcarins 
about this from us. 
The Class of '35 has for many years had an out­
standing secrctan- in FRANK HOCHREITER ^^•ho's 
begged off after 30 years. Wc at my office are not 
going to begin to do the fine job Hoch did but 
may approach it if you will each make it a prac­
tice to drop us a line and slop in whenever you 
arc at XD. My office is Room 306 in the Main 
Bldg., and I will always be glad to see you. 
From the Alumni Office: 
R«:eived a note from FATHER THOMAS E. 
HEWITT CSC who is a cliaplain in tlic Air Force 
and at Andrcv%-5 Air Force Base, Md. 
A note in Denver's Rocky Mountain Journal told 
of JOHN C. KAVANAGH of Washington, D.C., 
being named economic ad\*iser to the Pueblo Devel­
opment Foundation. John is also prcadent of the 
Economic Research Council and is the owner of an 
Illinois pbctics firm. 
REV. PAUL E. BEICHNER CSC, dean of the 
University's Graduate School, is the editor of a two-
volume edition of Peter ^ga's Aurora, a mcdiae\*al 
verse commcntarj* on the Bible. Tlie U. of Notre 
Dame Press published the first printed edition of 
the book. 
REV. JEROME M. BOYLE CSC has been trans­
ferred from the U. of Portland to the philosophy 
department of Notre Dame. 
•^JL Lanry Palkoric 207 North Market Street Johnstown, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
GEORGE BELTE^L\CCHI, ARTHUR GREG­
ORY, PAUL GUARNIERI. ART MULHOLL.\ND, 

JOSEPH SCHMIDT, DO^HNIC VARRxWETO. 
PHIL DeBRUYNE's older son D.WID gradu­
ated from ND last June and was married in August 
to Nanette Kelly whose father is a '39 ND grad. 

De Bruyne's daughter Phyllis is a junior at North­
western and is to be married this .August. Peter, the 
younger son, is a ND sophomore in mechanical 
engineering. Since graduation Pliil has been with 
Moline Malleable Iron Co. in St. Charles, 111., and 
has held the post of president for many years now. 
Phil starts off his letter that it has been 29 years 
and some months since he received my last note. 
About the only classmate Phil sees is ED Mc-
NALLY, but would like to know wliat others arc 
doing. 
Keep the reports coming in to me so wc can all 

know more about what other classmates are doing. 
For a number of years we were all wondering what had happened to GEORGE MALLET. No one seemed to know or hear of his whereabouts. I was nearly bowled over when I received a nice letter and report from George and that he was kicking and \*ery much ali%'e as he so states in his letter. He is living in Amelia, Ohio, whicli is not far from Cincinnati. In Amelia he is supervisor of special education for the Clermont County School System where he taught for eight years. George spends his Christmas and summers on Anna Maria Island, Fla., doing surf-fishing and boating. His only daughter, Mrs. Jcrr>- Brennan, supplied him with his first grandson this past year. He lives at 33 Huntington Ave. in Amelia. Am sure many of the boys will be very glad to hear of George's whereabouts as he was quite a figure on campus in our undergraduate days. Be sure and be at the next reunion, George, as we will have a real session. Now if wc get a word from "JUNGLE JI^^' D\VYER it will just about fill the picture along with HOW.ARD BOLERJ.ACK. 
Received a nice personal letter of congratulation from JACK IMHTAKER concerning the news of our Class of *36 in the .\LUMNUS. Jack feels we could have a real big 30th reunion in *66 and hopes that I will play it up big. I certainly will do all I can. I have sent many personal letters to many of our class to keep talking it up and spread the word about our forthcoming '66 reunion. 
Also received a nice letter of congratulation from "^VOODY" STILLWAGON along witli some news. Woody said he had a call from "RED" CAMP who probably •was best known for his wTcstling match with "C^'" CONNORS before the Bengal Bouts in *32-'33. Red was a resident of Brou'nson Hall and was with us only in his fresh­man year. Later he graduated from U. of ^Vash­ington. He is now owner of the Bay Chemical Co. in Tacoma, Wash. As most Brou-nsonites remember "Red" spent most of his time trying to save his hair, but lost the battle and is now known as "Baldy." Incidentally, Camp told Woody that he saw CURLY REGAN and that he is well and 
LOS ANGELES—Ben Salvaty '32 (center) is congratulated on being named Man of the Year for the Los Angeles Club UND Night by Dr. Leo Turgcon '42 (right), chairman of the Man of the Year committee and 1962 recipient of the aw-ard. At left is UND Night Chairman Jack Stewart '59. 
living in California- God willing. Woody said that he plans to attend the 30th reunion. Said he hasn't missed one to date. He really enjoys meeting the fellows, particularly reminiscing with the gang and seeing all the new developments at the University. 
In closing I wish to thank all the '36 Class for their reports and letters otherwise we would not have had so much news in the last issue of the Fcb.-March ALUMNUS. Sure would like to hear a word or two from the rest of our Class that have not sent in their report. Unless the rest of you send me your reports or letters I will have very little news in the next issue or two of the ALUMNUS, so get bus\', gang, and write. Let's hear from those who haven't sent me their report. 
Tlic Alumni Office received a letter from JOSEPH C. CLARK of Washington, D.C., who \»rites on the death of fellow *36cr, FRANK J. GAUL: 
"Frank served in the Navy with me, in fact he was a roommate of mine for a while. We roomed across the hall from JFK's oldest brother Joe Jr. at Tiorloik, Va. Wc liad some politics but Frank was more interested in handball and beer. 
"Frank Gaul v*-as the epitome of the true Cath­olic gentleman — an exemplar>' Notre Dame man, if you will — who each day for the past 86 months lay and fingered his beads, thrice daily. . . . 
*'He was the fitting example of the fighter who never gave up. His clieerj' welcome to his visitors was warm, his affection for Notre Dame and the team u'as outstanding, his stauncli faith in the face of adversity was superb. 
*'For more than 2000 days he lay intermittently 

PHOENIX—John McShane '55 (second from right) receives his plaque as Man oi the Year for 1965 from Ed Boyle '38, last year's honoree (second from left), at Uni­versal Notre Dame Night ceremonies in Phoenix, Ariz. Looking on are Pre^dcnt Art Erra '30 (left) and Fr. Albert Heinzer CSC '41, director of Catholic family theater and principal speaker. 
gasping from a mask of ox>*gcn .. . so he could ^ 
listen attentively, smile v%-armly and talk occa­
sionally to his visitors. 
"When you left the Veterans' Administration 

Hospital at Brecksville, Ohio, after a visit with 
Frank, you walked on air for the lift he gave you 
to fight life's battles. . . . You felt so much better 
for having knouTi Frank Gaul, Notre Dame man, 
husband, father, citizen, patriot. Naval officer, 
baseball captain, football player, but most impor-^ 
tant, friend of Our Lady and servant of His ­
Maker." 
J 
From the Alumni Office: 
REV. ROLAND D. SIMONITSCH CSC is ccle-­

farating the 25th anniversary- of his ordination as a 
priest. He is currently an associate professor of reli­
gion at the U. of Portland. 
JOHN S. GLEASON JR. of Chicago has been 

named a member of the board of regents of the U. 
of Santa Clara, Calif. 
JOSEPH J. NEWMAN, who has accounting of­

fices in South Bend and Elkhart, Ind., was recently 
elected president of the Indiana Society of Public 
Accoimtants. 
REV. ROMAN S. L.\DEWSKI CSC, assistant 

dean of the Freshman Year of Studies at the Uni­
versity, toured Europe for seven »**eeks as chaplain 
for members of the National Federation of Catholic 
College Students, who visited 13 countries. 
DR. (Lt. Col.) GEORGE E. MURPHY of Glen ­

Ridge, N. J., recently attended International Aero­
space Medical Association meeting in NYC with 
400 other officers of the AF Medical Service. Dr. j 
Murphy is commander of the dispensary at Stewart 
Air Force Base, N. Y. 
A note from the New York Times says that 

WLLIAM A. WALSH JR. has left his post as city 
manager of Yonkcrs, N.Y., to become a family 
court judge in Westchester County, N.Y. 
Joseph P. Quinn 
•37 P.O. Box 275 LakcLcn^K Andovcr, N.J. 

From the .\lumni Office: REV. ROBERT J. LOCHNER CSC, director of international students and scholarship chairman for 
U. of Portland, has been transferred to chaplain at St. Edifard's High School in Cleveland. 
AL SCmVARTZ of Salina, Kan., writes of host­ing JIM GILLIS '51 and his wife and five children when the former Philadelphia Phillies "bonus baby" visited the site of his farm team. While in Salina Al took Jim to the local ND Club meeting and visited another '51er, TOM KENNEDY. 
DR. CHARLES A. HUFNAGEL, professor of surger>' at Georgetown University, received the Mendel Medal from Villanova University this spring for ''distinguished service in the advancement of science." A pioneer in the surgical treatment of heart and blood vessel disorders, Dr. Hufnagel has developed new heart and lung machines and sur­gery techniques for open-heart surgery. 
REV. JOSEPH E. HALEY CSC presented two papers before the Institute in Pastoral Psychology-at Fordham University recently. Fr. Haley read papers entitled: "Special Opportunities for Service to the Church and the World" and "Toward a Spirituality for Women." He is an assistant profes­sor of religion at tlie U. of Portland. 
ARCH F. GOTT was elected president of the Elgin Leach Corp. in June by the firm's board of directors. He will also retain hb post as sales man­ager. 
LT. COL. CHARLES G. ROGGENSTEIN has retired from the U.S. Army after more than 20 years* service. Col. Roggenstcin was professor of militsry saence at Niagara University, N.Y., since 1959. He partidpated in all the European cam­paigns of VfW II. 
•^ O Bumie Bauer 
^O 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 

From the Alumni Office: CHUCK SWEENEY, former All-America end (1937) at ND, has retired after 25 years of offici­ating in the National Football League. He started officiating shortly after college and moved through the NFL ranks until he was consistently drairing the top assignment in recent years — the pros' playoff game. DR. LAWRENCE T. EBY has been named re­search director of the chemical division, Cluysler Corp. in Trenton, Mich. He will be in charge of product research and planning for new products. 
4S Notre Dame Alumnus^ September-October, 1965 
^V'/ 

Teresa Bauer, daughter of BURNIE BAUER of Granger, Ind., spent six weeks in France as part of a student e-xcliangc program under the Founda­tion for International Cooperation in association with the Christian Family Sfovement. Teresa, who is a freshman at St. Mary's, then had the daughter of her French hosts stay sbt weeks in the U.S. 
ED BOYLE, a former special agent in charge of the Phoenix, Ariz., FBI oflice, has been named Scottsdalc, Ariz., city magistrate. 
CL.\RK L. REYNOLDS has been elected vice-president of Union Bag-Camp Paper Corp., New-York City. Clark resides in Mountain Lakes, N.J., with his wife and five sons. 
JOHN A. HURST is curriculum director for the Chicago firm. Skills Center, Inc., which teaches reading and writing \o illiterate adults. John was in Pittsburgh recently to aid local anti-poverty chiefs in their techniques. He stressed that children's primers were not the way to teach adult illiterates, and has w*rittcn 86 of his own books for the purpose. 
•^ Q Joseph E. Hannan Am. Bank & Trust Co. 101 N. Michigan St. South Bend, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: 

REV. DAVID FOSSELMAN CSC was recently honored at the U. of Portland for \ia 15 years of service as an associate professor of sociology. Fr. Fosselman has been transferred to the mission at San Jose, Calif. 
JOHN J. GRIFFIN JR., president of John J. Griffin Investment Co., St, Louis (mortgage bank­ers), has been elected to the board of trustees of St. Mary's College. John is a past president of the 
-St- Louis ND Club and lias been serving as chair­man of the ND Foundation in St. Louis for 10 years. 
'dA ^°^^ ^- Sanford 117 S. Stewart Ave. Lombard, 111. 
REUNION REGISTR,\NTS 

STANLEY ADAMONIS, HENRY AR.MITAGE, ED.MUiVD BADDOUR, EARL BAGAN, ROBERT B.VRBER, JOHN BARRY, JEROME BORDEAUX, THO^WS J. BRENNAN, JOHN BRODBERGER, RICHARD BURKE, ROBERT BURKE, J.\MES BYR.\E, WILLIAM CANNON, JOSEPH &AR­LUCCI, PHILLIP CARROLL, ANTHO.N'Y L. CELLA, ROBERT CENTLIVRE, JOHN COLE, WILLIAM COLEMAN, HENRY COLLINS, JAMES CONLEY, GEORGE COSTELLO, JOHN COURTNEY, HUGH CRANE, JOSEPH CU.M­MFNGS, JAMES CURRAN, JAMES DANER, 
CLASS OF 1940 

EDWARD DELAHANTY, JOHN DeMOSS, WIL­LIAM R. DILLON, ROBERT DOLAN, JAMES 
V. DONOGHUE, PHILIP DONOHUE, GERARD DONOVAN, HENRY DOWD, ROGER EGAN, JOHN ELSE, HENRY K. ENGEL, 1A.KKS. ERTEL, GEORGE EVANS, WILLIAM FAY, FRANCIS FERGUS, THOMAS FL.\D, WALTER FLEM­ING, JAMES FOLEY, DAVID J. FOX, ROBERT FROST, JOHN D. GAVAN, ANTHONY GENTLE, DONALD R. GILLILAND, ROBERT GRISANTI, PAUL GSCHWEND, FRANK GUINDON, FRANK GUNTER, THONUS HACKETT, REV. PAUL W. HACKMAN, DANIEL E. H.-\NNAN, EDWARD J. HART, JOSEPH HART, PAUL HELLMUTH, JOHN P. HENEBRY, CURTIS HESTER, ROB­ERT HOOFFSTETTER, DON.\LD HOSINSKI, THOMAS E. HOSTY, EDWARD HUFF, NOR­VALL HUNTHAUSEN, DANIEL J. HUSHEK, JOHN HUSSEY, CHARLES HUTCHENS, CECIL JORDAN, JOHN JULIAN, WILBER KAMM, LEROY KE.\CH, JOHN C. KELLEHER, CHARLES KELLY, EDWARD KELLY, JAMES KELLY, JOHN KELLY, THOMAS J. KELLY, CHARLES KELSEV, JAMES KENTs'Y, AL KES­SING, ALOYSIUS KOSS, JOHN KOTTE, AR­THUR LANCASTER, DANIEL F. LAUGHLIN, HUGH LAUGHNA, E. J. LAVERY, THO.MAS LEAHY, EUGENE LEONARD, CLIFFORD LETCHER, JOHN J. LINNEHAN, THOMAS LISTON, ROBERT LOUGHERY, RICHARD LYNG, CHARLES ^L\GNER, JOSEPH MAN­GANO, THO.MAS JfcGVRTHY, JOHN A. -Mc-INTYRE, JOSEPH McKEON, JAMES S. Mc-ROBERTS. LOUIS P. MECONI, GEORGE MEEKER, PAUL MENNEG, FRED XHHOLICH, RICHARD MIZERSKI, JOHN J. MLYNSKI, ALLAN XIOONEY, JA.MES T. MOORE, MIZE MORRIS, PAUL \l. MORRISON, ARTHUR OBERHOFER, JOHN J. O'BRIEN, WILLIAM 
H. O'BRIEN, JOSEPH O'CONNELL, REV. DEAN O'DONNELL CSC, HUGH K. O'DON­NELL, KEVIN 0'GOR.\IAN, COLXLVN O'NEILL, CHARLES OSHINSKI, CHARLES PATERNO, REV. JOHN T. PAYNE CSC, H.\RRY PHIL­LIPS, JOHN A. PINDAR, R.\LPH POSTULA, JOHN POULIN, LOUIS REILLY, FRED ROB­ERTSHAW, HENRY ROGERS, JAMES ROGERS, ROBERT ROTH/\CKER. VINCENT J. RYAN, DONALD SACKLEY, GER.\LD SAEGERT, BEN­JAMIN SAELI, FARRIS SAFFA, DANIEL SAL­LOWS, PHILIP SANDMAIER, ROBERT S.AN­FORD, LEO A. S.-VNTINI, WILLIAM J. SCHALLER, BEN SHERIDAN, DONALD SMITH, EDWIN SOMMERER, JOSEPH SOTAK, RICH­ARD STEFFANIAK, CHET SULLIV,\N, DANTEL 
J. SULLIVAN, FRANCIS SULLIVAN, JA.MES 
H. SULLIVAN, WALTER SWEITZER, ERNEST 
C. TIMPANI, FR,\NK TOYNE, WILLIAM H. TUCKER, REV. FRANCIS XL VALENTTNI, DO.MINIC VAIRO, VICTOR VERG.ARA, WAYNE WAHL, mLLIS H. WALKER, GEORGE WAL­LACE, MYLES WALSH, FRANK WANEK, JOHN J. WARD, JOSEPH WEIDNER, ROBERT 
G. WINDHEIM, ROBERT WITCHGER, WAI^ TON WUEBBOLD, LOUIS ZONTINL 
From the .^umni OfiEce: 
ROBERT EDWIN SULLIVAN, former facultr member of the ND Law School and dean of the law school at the U. of Montana, received an honorary Doctor of Laws Degree from Carroll CoI-> lege, Helena, Mont., at their commcncemeiit exer~ cises this spring. 
DR. S.AMUEL J. HAZO, associate dean of the college of arts and sciences, Duquesne U., received an honorary Doctor of Laws Degree from Seton Hall College, Greensbury, Pa., at its suouner com­mencement. Dr. Hazo had another volume of his poems published by the U. of Pittsburgh Press in 
April entided Sty Sons in God, 
A girant from Connecticut General Life Iiuurance Co. has been given to Notre Dame in the name of JOHN D. GAVAN. The company makes grants ti> institutions of higher learning whose graduates have been with the company 10 or more years. 
ROBERT J. TIERNA.N has been appointed creative director of advertising for Better Homes & Gardens magazine of Chicago. For­merly manager of sales promotion and merchandis­ing. Bob will now develop new ideas and approaches for the magazine's adi-ertising. 
James F. SpcUman 
•41 14 Dccificid Ave. Eastchcster, N.Y. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS HOWARD ROHAN, WILLIAXf SPALDING, ^VILLIA^I SYRING. 
From the Alumnt Office: 
FRANK J. WEMHOFF, a senior «ce-prcsidcnt of Caldwell, Larktn 5: Sidener-Van Riper, Inc., In­dianapolis (public relations), has been elected president of the Hoosier Chapter of the Public Re­lations Socielv of America. 
JOE BROUSSARD JR. of Beaumont, Tex., was opposing another Texan recently when he criti­cized the rice program section of the farm bill President Johnson bad before Congress. Joe is the president of the Rice Millers Association and was heSorc the House Agriculture Commiftee to testify against the rice provision. Joe's son, Joe Clyde, will be a junior at ?n> this fall, and hts oldest daugh­ter ifary Lu will be a St. Mary's freshman. They have three younger girls and a younger boy still at home in Beaumont. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 49 
X/­
/•-^.•' w. -.^/^ \ ^. 
/ r 
CLASS OF 1945 
WnUam M. Hickcy 
'42 
3333 West 45th Place Chicago, BL 
From the Alumni Office: 

DR. JOHN R. MALON'E, assistant dean of tlic Univenity's College of Business Administration, has been promoted to the rank of professor of marketing management. 
DR. WALTER C. MILLER, professor of physics at tlie Universit>', has received a $135,000 grant from the Defense Department's Office of Na\-al Re­search for a study of "Nuclear Energy Spectra of Artificially Excited Nuclei.'* 
JOHN F. MORLVRTV has joined the sales staff of plastics Technology magazine and xvill work in their Chicago office- He w-as formerly with the ad­vertising department of B. F. Goodrich Co. . 
'43 J^^^*^"*^ 
5125 Briggs Ave. LaC^cscenta, CaL 

From the Alumni Office: ROBERT E. MORRILL has been appointed direc­tor of sales of the electric shaver-portable t>-pe­writcr division of Spcrrx- Rand Corp. of Bridgeport, Conn. JAY E. GIBSON has been proposed as a general partner of the investment banking firm of Schwabacher & Co., the appointment being sub­ject to approval of the New York Stock Exchange. Jay joined the firm in 1953 and was manager of tlie firm's San Jose, Calif., office at the time of the appointment. FRED W. KELLER of Crystal Lake, III., is a new district representative for Boating Indus­try magarine; He was sales manager for the Diesel Engine Division of Hamischfegcr Corp. be­fore taking the new job. 
'4 4 I<"n^_^ Neufcid 
P.O. Box 853 Gnen Bay, Wis. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS GEORGE BARISCILLO JR., JOSEPH O'KEEFE. 

Less than four years remain until our great, super-coiosfal 25th Silver Jubilee Reunion. If these pass .as quickly as did the year just over, it be­hooves us to begin to make plans for the grand event. The coKJiairmen, "BLACK JOHN" AfUR-PHY and TOM ROLFS, appointed by Class Pres­ident GEORGE BARISCILLO, eagerly arc await­ing any suggestions whicli might help them to prepare for that never-to-be-forgotten reunion. Let's truly "Rise and Shine in '69." 
Again wc join in extending sympathy to the wife and family of one of our fellov^' classmates. Bridget Price of Anaheim, Calif., wrote that her husband, ARTHUR V. PRICE, died suddenly in September, 196+. "Vic" started at ND with most of us but, due to the u-ar, finished a few years later. In addi­tion to his wife, he is survived by eight children, six girls and twin sons. Remember him in your ever-growing litany of fellow classmates who have departed from this turbulent world. 
Tlie mail was extremely slow in coming since tlic last issue went lo press and it was feared that tlicre would be no news for this column. To avoid sucli a calamity, a dozen or so telegrams were sent to tlic area "vccps" and to several other hopeful cor­respondents. Tlie results were excellent — a 75 per­cent return. One indiWdual — HARRY YE/\TES — not only wrote once but did so twice u-ithin a month. Tliat is true support! Harry, a New York City resident for the past five years, is associated with Geycr-McAl lister Publications which pub­lishes the business magazine for gifts, china, and glass, and home accessories. He regretted not making the '64 reunion, but business prevented his attending. He also said that he liasn't Iiad too many recent contacts with ND classmates, but made calls to FRANK ECK, FRANK ENGLISH and DAN McNAM.\RA with the hope tliat they in turn would send news items to the secretary. The look­outs have been sent out but the pony express must have been delayed because nothing has come through. 
JACK CRAHAN, midwest-area veep, did not want to take any chances on modem postal service and telephoned his letter instead. It was a most welcome phone call and we had a fine \Tsit. He commented that TOM ROLFS really must have slimmed down to his college weight in order to win the Preakness this spring. Jack, who is in the floor-covering and ready-to-wear business in Napo­leon, Ohio, contacted GUIDO ALEXANDER, DICK DOERMER, JI.M MALONE and CREIGHT MILLER for news. That, too, has been delayed between their respective domiciles and Green Bay (your secretary's address). He also mentioned that BOB FAUGHT no«* is a resident of Toledo. 
JIM ^L\HONEY, an Orlando, Fh., real-estate t>-coon, wrote apologetically for not having much '44 Class news. He looks forward, howc\*er, to - the ND game in Miami in the fall and hopes he will see some of his classmates then. Jim's son, Mike, a sophomore at ND, spent the past year in Europe in the sophomore-year-abroad program. Such a program was nonexistent in our day for many ob­vious reasons. 
There was a fine note from TOM O'REILLY, class treasurer. Fort ^VaJ•nc. Fortunately, there was no request for funds at this time. He wrote that occasionally he sees "BUTCH" DEHNER, DICK DOER.MER, ART HOFFMAN and JIM KEEPER. Eacli year at the National Stationery and Office Equipment Association Convention in Chi­cago, Tom and his ^vife, Jean, get together •with Betty and OMER STUR^L Omer is owner-manager of the Jasper Table Company, Jasper, In­diana. Last winter, tlie O'Reillys spent some time in Fort Lauderdale and had several visits \vith BEN BRUNETTI and his bride, Mar^.-. Ben has the welcome mat out for any '44er in the vicinity. Do you suppose he consulted with Mary? There possibly could be quite a crowd. 
A welcomed letter wus received from S.-\M ^VING tvho reminisced on the most enjoyable reunion a year ago. He commented on Universal ND Night held at the Dallas Club atop the new SO-story Re­public Bank Building. Sam and his wife. Hazel, attended with the JACK SCHROETERs, former Cle\'elanditcs who now also live in Dallas. FATHER HESBURGH was the guest for this spring gathering and his message, as always, was most inspiring. 
OZZIE DOLAN of Dubuque, Iowa, was involved in the disastrous Mississippi floods of '65. Ozzic, a caseworker at St. Mary's Home, directed ten young fellou-s on sandbagging dikes in East Du­buque. Through their efforts of handling sand­bags in bucket-brigade fashion, a gaping hole was repaired in record time. Another '44er, JIM SCHMID, treasurer of Crescent Electric Supply, had two buildings engulfed by floodwaters. ^{orc disaster befell still another, TOM CODY, secretary-treasurer of C. F. Cody, Inc., whose building was damaged seriously by a fire in an adjacent building. Let us hope and pray that our classmates in Du­buque will fare better in the year ahead. 
A long letter came from CLEM CONSTAN'TINE, executive director of the Manchester, N.H., Com­munity Services Council. He and JOE GALL seem to make up the entire '44er contingent in that area. The latter still complains of a bad back due to an early-morning ride do\%-n the halls of Morrisscy to its lobby at the time of the-'59 reunion, and won­ders if GE.VE SLEVIN and BOB THUM.M will be around doing the same in '69. Clem and Joe jour­neyed to the Navy game, leaving home at an un­holy hour of 4 AM, returning 21 hours later. It was almost as hectic a trip as Clem had with "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY returning to Neu­
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
York after last year's reunion. He would like to sec some deluxe charter transportation service available for Eastern classmates for the '69 trek to the Alma >fater. 
Our president, GEORGE BARISCILLO, is a most busy indi\idual but manages to pen a note frequently. He mentioned that, although it was not reunion time for '44crs, he was at ND for an Alumni Board meeting in June. Unfortunately our paths did not cross. 
Let us continue the fine cooperation by keeping the mail coming. Your secretary is dependent upon your letters in order to prepare an adequate col­umn and is confident in your ever-faithful assistance. 
From- the Alumni OfHcc: 

JOSEPH SIMONS has moved from Wcstlicld, N.J., across the sea to London to take the post of regional systems coordinator for Europe and North Africa for Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey. 
BROTHER GERONTIUS McCARTHY CSC, principal of Monroe, Mich.'s, Catholic Central High School, has marked the 25th anmversarj- of his religious profession as a brother. 
Motorola, Inc. chairman ROBERT W. GALVIN of Barrington, III., was the commencement speaker at the graduation exercises of St. Ambrose and Mar>'crest Colleges last spring in Davenport, lou'a. 
TH'O '44ers ifliose patlis never crossed at ND or in more than 20 years since now find themselves 
. in oflices a few feet apart. SAM NIELD, vice-president of newspaper relations with This Week magazine, found out the newly appointed publicity director for the magazine was ROBERT L. DUNNE, a classmate from ND. Sam was the ND golf-team captain in Ml and Bob fought through four bouts in the summer of '42 in the field house boxing matches. THEODORE T. TOOLE JR. has been named business manager of Dow Chemical Co.'s animal by­products operations. You might have seen another '44cr in an ad in the July 19 edition of Sports Illustrated magazine. It was JOHN R. RYAN of Hibbing, Minn., a representative of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn. John was selected for this honor on the basis of his sales record: more than $3,000,000 in life insurance in a single vcar. ARTHUR W. FELTES of Chicago was recently promoted to assistant vice-president of the Harris Trust and Savings Bank. 
Frank M. linchan 
'45 Genera] Electric Go. 
600 Mam St. 
Johnson City, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, WILLIAM BRACK­EN, JAMES BRAUN, JOHN BR020, JOHN CARON, DAVID CARTWRIGHT, DONALD CISLE, DONALD CLAEYS, JAMES CLYNES. MARK CRONIN, FRANK CULHANE, VIN­CENT GUSHING, FRANK DELANEY, JAMES DONNELLY, JAMES DUGAN, JOHN ELLIOTT, ROBERT ERKINS, HENRY FRAILLY, AHCHAEL GARRY, BERNARD E. GOTTA, WILLIAM F. GRANT, JOHN GUTHRIE, CHARLES HAST­INGS, JAMES HINES, JOHN R. KINNEY, WILLUM KLEM, RAY.MOND KOPFTUK, VIN­CENT LAURFTA, JOHN LAVERY, AL LES­MEZ, FRANK LINEHAN, FRANCIS E. MA­LONE, PHILIP MARTIN, ROBERT MAURER, WILLIAM J. McNEIL, FR.-\NK MILLER, THOM.AS F. MULHERN, GEORGE MURPHY, REV. MICHAEL MURPHY CSC, JAMES A. O'CONNOR, DANIEL O'DONNELL, ROBERT 
H. O'TOOLE, HENRY PAYNE, JAMES R. RET­TER, ROBERT RIORDAN, HARRY RYAN, ARTHUR SARTORE, DENNIS SCULLY, WIL­LIAM R. WADDINGTON, ALFRED A. ^VADE, HARRY J. WALTERS, JOHN WELCH. 
From the Alumni Office: REV. JOHN L. VAN WOLVLEAR CSC has been directed by the Congregation of Holy Cross to the 
U. of Portland for work with the administration there. 
HENRY F. FRAILEY has been named manager of sales development and product engineering in the laboratory glassware dept. of Corning Glass Worlu, Coming, N.Y, 
FRANCIS J. MILLIGAN JR. of Chicago has be­come a member of the law firm of Kahn, Adsit, Amstein, Gluck, Weitzenfeld & Minow. 
JOHN S. DRENDEL of Reno, Nev., has been elected president of the Washoe County Bar As­sociation in Ne%*ada, according to a note received from JAMES D. ROWLAND of Palo, Alto, Cafif. 
J. F. MOLIDOR '46 

James F. Molidor '46 has been appointed sales manager of Vetco, a Johnson & John­son company, it was announced by Richard 
A. Grey, general manager of Vetco. Johnson & Johnson's Vetco company serves the veterinary profession with a broad line of surgical dressings, orthopedic and suture products, and specialty items. The company's dairy department is a leading 
supplier of multipurpose milk filters and allied products. 
A native of Libertyville, 111., Jim joined Johnson & Johnson in 1951 as a sales rep­resentative in the hospital division. He was named a division manager, with head­quarters in St. Louis, Mo., in 1958 and be­came a product director in I960. From 1961 until his recent appointment with Vetco, Jim has served as associate director of the company's new products division. 
Jim and his wife, the former Dorothy Ann Meyer of Libertyville, have three children. They live at 38 Old Oak Dr., Summit, N.J. 
Peter P. Richiski 
'46 
60 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JOSEPH BR.\DY, JOHN POWER, ROBERT ROSSFFER, THO.MAS SCHREIBER. 
From the Alumni Office: PHILIP E. PRICKETT, president of Philip E. Prickett & /Vssociatcs, Inc. (promotion, fund rais­ing), has been appointed director of development at Marvinount College in Salina, Kan. AL SCHWARTZ '37, sent in the information and adds *'this new member of the Salina ND Club makes 10.. We're growing!" 
CHRIS W. COCHRANE has joined the firm of Allis-Chalmcrs as manager of merchandising-parts, construction machinery division. Working out of Milwaukee, Wis., Chris will direct all the pro­grams related to sale aiid distribution of parts. 
JackNGks 
•47 3218 Bentley Lu e 
South Bend, Ind. 

REUNION REGISTRANT JACK MILES. 
INTERLOPER ON THE CAMPUS Although this wasn't the year for '47 men to return to the campus for the annual Junefest, this reporter donned his reunion suit- and %vandered out to the City by the lakes to hobnob with some of the *45 and '50 grads. Lo and behold another interloper was there: JOE OTOOLE, late of New Jersey, but now a Holly^voodite as general sales manager for Cogs­well, the firm which makes retractable hose for gasoline stations and such. Joe's travels brought him back to ND at the proper time and it was good to \-isit with him. GUS CIFELLI reported he recently won his law degree and plans to combine his practice with an insurance business. True to form, Gus — a gentle­man in cvcr\' sense of the word — plans lo pick his clients from among the poor and underprivileged who need him most. LEON HART, looming above the crowd, told iis his 15-year-oId son is an inch taller than he and weighs in at 220! Puny Leon checked in at only 190 \vhen he was a high-school freshman. Other happy moments were passed with HARRY WALTERS, HARVEY NEDEAU, ROLAND KELLY, JOE HICKEY, BENNY . SHERIDAN '40, LARRY LEACH '55, GERRY RAMS6ERGER, JOE SaANNON, GENE BIITTNER and JOE CASA SA.\TA '55. 
HORNBLOWER'S CORNER Having crashed the pages of Extension maga­zine's July issue with a yam entitled "Tim Mc­Car\'er, Champion," your soundoff scribe is scheduled for an encore in September; the subject: Notre Dame football and its future — immediate and long-range. 
GEOGRAPHY LESSON FATHER WILFRID ME.VARD CSC has taken over the office of post chaplain at Fort Polk, La. BROTHER PEDRO HAERING CSC has been teaching the past semester at St. Thomas Aquinas HS in Cleveland. BOB REIN*DERS has taken his teaching talents from St. Edward's in Austin, Tex., to Tulane in New Orleans. LT COL JOHN HENRY LAUCK USMC is currently residing in Indianapolis. So is GEORGE KRULL, a transferee from California. The maelstrom of Manhattan is poorer by one TED HAVELY, who has emigrated to Atlanta, Ga., with Shell Oil Co. HARRY MERCER has given up good-neighboring the BILL ROEMERS in South Holland, IlL, and begun helping pay Rockefeller's sabry as a citizen of Yonkers, N. Y. And our man in the paddock, BUD ^VILLEN­BRINK, proves he Is for the birds as well as the bangtails by moving from Plover Road to Robin Road in Louisville. 
RETURN OF RAY FRANKLIN 

Early in July my ears were treated lo the Down East accents of RAY FRANKLIN, who was passing through town 20 percent of the way through a five-week camper tour of the National Parks with his wife Barbara and their children, 7I/^year-old Chris­topher (Chris) and 6-ycar-old JOCCI>TI (Lynnie). 
He's still living on Sleepy Hollow Road in .Atkin­son, N. H., and heading up the administration of the Pentucket Regional School in nearby West Newbury, Mass. He has been at the 1,200-pupil school eight years. 
Ray phoned from the .Almiini Office; he and his family — inveterate campers all — had set out on the Canadian side of Lake Erie and were stopping for a nostalgic "quickie" ur»der the Dome. The Rambler-Holiday rig housing the Franklins on the 6,600-mile trek was booked for stops at all the National Parks except Gbcier ("We have to save something for the next time") and at Disneyland. 
'He contacted BOB MICHAUD uhile here and expressed hope this reference might trigger some messages from some of you. 
From Pearl River, N. Y., JIM SHEA writes: "Enclosed is $1 for the repose of the souls of our 1947 classmates. 
"Also would like to inform you that Joseph Thomas, bom June 9, 1965, has joined James Joseph, 5^ , and Mar>- Catherine, V/z. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September'October, 1965 52 
" I am still working in the field of special educa­tion, but I'm cmp!o>'cd by the Board of Coopera­tive Educational Sen-ices of Rockland County, N. Y. 
"Always enjoy reading about fellow* classmates in your column." Tlianks, Jim, for the buck, the plug and the dope. And congratulations on giWng the bo>*s an edge in your family again. 
From the Alumni Office: LEONARD F. SWOYER has been named assistant general sales manager witli Xew Departure-Hyatt Bearings Division of General Motors Corporation. Lt. Col. JOHN F. CROWLEY USMC has been named commanding officer of the 4th Battalion, 11th Marine Regiment at the Marine Corps Base, Twent>-ninc Palms, Calif. He is one of only four lieutenant colonels to hold the position of battalion commander. 
FRED G. JOHNSTON JR., publisher of Con­struction Digest, lias been reelected president of the Associated Construction Publications. He joined the magazine in 1946 and has been publisher 
since 1963.  
1^ 0  Gcoi^e J. Keaian  
177 Rifling Hffls Rd.  

Clifton, N.J. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JOSEPH OTOOLE, JOSEPH QUILL, ROB­ERT SNEE. 
From the Alumni Office: DAVE WARNER, a sports v-riter with the Roch­ester, N.Y., Democrat and Chronicle, has "ghosted" a book on coaching basketball for U- of Rochester basketball coach Lyle Brown. Titled 
Offensive and Defensive Drills for Winning Basket­ball, the book contains some 250 game-situation drills and a ycar-around plan for player improve­ment. ND basketball coach JOHN'N'Y DEE is one of the endorsers on the jacket. 
JOHN A. O'CONNOR, former associate editor of the San Francisco Sfonitor, has been named editor of the proposed weekly paper to be published by the diocese of \Vilmington, Del. 
BROTHER RAPHAEL WILSON CSC, associate professor of biology at the University, participated in a conference on radiation biology* at the Oak Ridge Institute, Oak Ridge, Tcnn., in August. He also lectured at a summer institute at Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, III. 
Our prayers and condolences to AL J. SPAHN of Elkhart, Ind., on the death of his son, Paul, 16, July 6. The young Spahn was working with a youn­ger brother and a neighbor on tlie family farm when a tractor tipped over on him. 
Former ND football captain GEORGE CON­NOR w'ill join with another, younger ND football captain, JIM MORSE *57, in covering the pre­season football games of the Chicago Bears pro­fessional football team for Chicago TV station ^VBBM. 
JOSEPH F. KRUi'ER, past grand knight of Santa Maria Coundl S53 (South Bend), Knights of Columbus, has been elected to a three-year term on the coimdl's board of trustees. Joe has just ended a two-year term as grand knight. 
BOB DEEGAN, Abilene, Tex., insurance man, has been named a director of the Abilene Bank of Commerce. Bob is a partner in tlie AVhccIcr-Dcegan Insurance Agency. 
PATRICK D. TRIXLER of Huntington, Ind., has been appointed director of marketing In Indiana for Washmobile of New Jersey, Inc., world's largest manufacturer of aiitomntic car-washing equipment, 
JASIES A. HOLTHOUSE. a Fort \Vayne, Ind., advertising man, has been named senior production manager for Marltz, Inc. of St. Louis. 
Dr. WILLIAM T. BONAVTCH has resigned as associate professor of marketing management at the Unii-crsity to become director of the department of marketing, school of commerce and finance, St. Louis U. in the coming fall. Dr. Bonwich has been with the ND faculty since 1951 and is considered a specialist in the field of retailing. 
^VfLLIAKf B. BALL, general counsel for the Pennsylvania Catholic ^Velfare Committee, was commencement speaker at St. Francis College, Loretto, Pa., in June and received an honorarv* Doctor of Lau's degree from the college. 
RICHARD C. PEJEAU has been named general agent in Cleveland for Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co., succeeding his father, Clarence E. Pejeau. Dick received his Chartered Life Under­writer designation in 1956 and is a past president of the Cleveland Life Underwriters' Association. THEODORE S. LATKOWSKI of South Bend 
BILL DIOGUARDI '47 MSE 
William P, Dioguardi '47 MS '48 has earned a place in the spotlight for nabbing eight state championships as varsity baseball coach at Montclair State College, N.J. dur­ing the past 17 years. 
In his years of coaching at Montclair Bill has amassed a total of 234 victories against 114 defeats. He has had only one season below the .500 mark. Most recently his teams have gained the New Jersey State College Championship tide in 1963 and in 1964; his 1965 team made it to second place with a 14-8 record. 
Bill also was named Coach of the Year by the New Jersey State College Conference and district Coach of the Year by the Na­tional .Association of Inter-collegiate Athlet­ics, both awards coming after the 1964 season. 
Freshman baseball coach at ND while he was working toward his master's degree in education, Bill also is an associate pro­fessor of physical education at Montclair and assistant to the athletic director. 
Bill and his wife, Theresa, have five chil­dren: Mariann, 11; Gina, 9; Billy, 7; Kenneth, 4; and Cecy, 9, a foster child from Cuba who has been with the Dioguardi family since September, 1962. 
When not coaching baseball, Bill is a collegiate basketball official in the Metro­politan-New Jersey area. He is a state-qualified football, basketball and, of course, baseball official. 
The Red Cross and the Boy Scouts also find time in Bill's busy schedule as one of the top young baseball coaches of the East. 
has been appointed office manager of South Bend Drafting Supply, Inc. He was formerly with the trailer diwion of Clark Equipment Co. 
JAMES E. GORAfA.X has been appointed vice-president of the Cliase Manhattan Bank of New York, according to a recent article in The New York Times. Jim joined Cliase Manhattan in 1949 and became assistant treasurer In 1958 and second vice-president in 1962. He is a member of the bank's real estate and mortgage loan department. 
*40 I^ ^ Woler 
1 7 155 Diihwood Lane 
Rochester 21, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 
JOHN LAMBERT, CARL LIEBSCHER, CHARLES NEFF, JOHN O'HARA, LOUIS TRACY, ROBERT UHL. 
From the Alumni Office: DR. GERALD I. LUBIN M.D. has informed the ofScc that be will be moving to Los Angeles to accept an appointment as assistant professor of psy­chiatry at the U. of California School of Medicine. . THOM.AS F. BRODEN JR., assistant dean of the Universit>-'s Law School, was honored recently by being invested as a Knight of St. Grcgorj'* The honor is granted by the Pope in recognition of lay­men's work in Church and community. This honor comes only shortly after Tom's appointment as assistant dean of the Law School, succeeding Prof. John J. Brodcrick Jr. 
CHARLES A. ROULT writes from Kansas City, Mo., that he is vice-president of a new corporalion, Great Western Automatic Sprinkler Co. Charlie joined with three other men in forming the new company after working with Automatic Sprinkler Corp. of America since 1949. 
JAMES B. ECKSTEIN of the U. of Detroit mathematics department was a consultant and teacher in a summer institute for high-school mathe­matics teachers in Jodlipul, Rajasthcr, India. 
THOMAS S. O'BRIEN of Ridgewood, N.J., has been appointed and confirmed as County District Judge, Bergen County, N.J. Tom was sewer attor­ney for Paramus Borough before his court appoint­ment. 
DAVID J. SMITH has moved from Akron, Ohio, to Seattle, Wash., to work for Boeing Co.'s aero­space division as a research specialist in logistics engineering. 
•C| | John W. Thomton 4400 Monserratc St. Coral Gables, Fla. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

NICHOL.\S ANGELOTTI, L. T. APPELBAUM, ARTHUR .-^RQUILLA, WILLIAM ARZBAECHER. JOSEPH BECKER, GERALD BEGLEY, EUGENE 
C. BIITTNER, JOHN J. BONESSI, LEO BROWN, JOEL BULLARD, PATRICK BUTLER, JAMES CARBERRY. GUS CIFELLI, REV. DAN CLARKE, JAMES CONWAY, RICHARD A. CORDASCO, ARTHUR B. CURRAN, EDW.^RD DENNING, GEORGE DICKSON, LESLIE DILI­MAS, LAWRENCE DOXOV,\N, WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, RAY DUNNE, THOiU S FARLEY, MAURICE FERRITER, JOHN FERRY, JAMES FISHER, EDMOND FOLEY, JEROME FRAZEL. JERRY FREEMAN, J. P. FRID.\Y, FRED FRIEN'D, JAMES FRITSCH, REV. ROBERT B. GRAY, LOUIS HALEY, LEON HART, JOHN HEALY, JOSEPH HERRINGTON, JOSEPH HICKEY, ROBERT HOCHMAN, WALTER HO­DAPP, HAROLD IMBUS, JAMES JENTJEWEIN, FRANK JOHNSON, THOMAS JOHNSON. JA.MES T. JOHNSTO.N, ROBERT KANE, VERNE KELLEY, FRANK KELLY, ROLAND KELLY, RICHARD KLEE, ROBERT LALLY, GEORGE LANDIS, ALLAN LANDOLT, ROBERT LANG, ANDREW LECHNER, WILLIAM E. LEONARD, ROBERT LUTHER, RICHARD .MAHER, DON­ALD MAHONEY, FRANK MALEY, FRANK E. McBRIDE, JOHN McGRODER, THOMAS E. Mc-HALE, JAMES E. McLAUGHLLV, JOHN McSHANE, JAMES MILLER, HUGH MULLI­GAN, RICHARD W. MURPHY, WILLIAM J. MURPHY, HARVEY NEDEAU, JOHN NUSS­KERN, GEORGE O'BRIEN, PHILIP O'CON­NELL, WILLIAM B. O'CONNELL, EDWARD J. O'MALLEY, ANTHON-Y ORTIZ, DANIEL OS­BERGER, JOHN PALNfER, CHARLES PERRIN, HAROLD PLAMONDON, GERALD RANSBER­GER, VAL REISIG, DONALD J. ROMANO, THOMAS RONEY, JOHN RYAN, ROBERT S.^NFORD, WALT SEERY, EDWARD SEXTON, 
W. R. SHANAHAN, JOSEPH ^L SHANNON, RUSSELL SKALL, JAMES F. SLATTERY, ROB­ERT SLOCUM, ROBERT SMITH, RICHARD SOISSON, JAMES R. SWEENEY, F. J. SWEEN­EY, WILLIAM L. TARD.WI, JOHN THORN­TON, HARRY L. TROY, WILLIAM VERDONK, ROBERT E. WAGNER, JAMES WELCH, ROB­ERT WELCH, JOHN WHALEN, JOHN C. WIESSLER, WILLL\M WIGHTKIN, CHARLES WILLENBRINK, W. J. WISSEL, DONALD WOLFE. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
At our 15th anniversar>' reunion June 11-13, I 

was requested by those in attendance to handle 
information for this column. Any correspondence 
you have can be sent to me at the above address. 
We had a wonderful class reunion w^th FRANK 

KELLY accepting and doing a fine job as local 
chairman (you have seen Frank's correspondence 
as the Assistant Director of Deferred Gi\"ing). 
FATHER DAN CLARKE, editor of the Des 
Moines Messenger, was our Class Mass Celebrant. 
Our favorite president of the Notre Dame Alumni 
Association, LANK SAflTH '50, participated in 
our Friday night Class Dinner, and together with 
FR. THEODORE HESBURGH, was a main speak­
er at the Notre Dame Alumni Banquet Saturday 
night. We take great pride in the work of Lank 
Smith and the Alumni Association. 
As a sidelight. Lank mentioned that we need renewed moral leadership on the campuses through­out the country*, and that the high school and col­lege athlete of yore, who used to furnish leadership, should reassert that image on the campus today. In an analogous vein, it struck mc while listening to Lank that our Class of 1950 should do likewise in the Notre Dame Alumni Association in its en­deavors. The revered Class of 1925 justifiably main­tains the limelight and gives much leadership and inspiration. Our Class of 1950 is distinguished in many ways, not the least of which was enjoying four years of imdefcated football. It seems appro­priate that our class, both those in and out of athletics, should take a place of leadership in the Notre Dame Alumni Association in all fields and be a source of inspiration for those who liave come after us. 
I will attempt in the near future to forMi*ard to each of you a questionnaire which I ask you to im­mediately fill out and return bringing us up to date on your current status. 
Many of our classmates who attended the re­union arc planning to attend the Miami-Notrc Dame game in Miami, Florida, November 27, a Saturday, in the Orange Bowl stadium at 8 p.m. So that we will have a place for all of us to get together that weekend and visit, if you arc in town for that game, you are invited to a cocktail-buffct, 4 to 6 p.m., Saturday, November 27, at my home, 4400 Monserrate Street, Coral Gables, Florida. So bring your wives and friends. 
Getting back to the reunion, my sides are still splitting from all of the "nationality" jokes with which we were all entertained by DICK CORDAS­CO, GERRY RAMSBERGER, GENE BIITTNER and JIM SLATTERY. DICK CORDASCO u-as still laughing about them in the shower Sunday morn­ing. ASDY LECHNER and ART ARQUILLA rep­resented our class well in winning golf prizes. Other classmates beside m>'scl{ who arc prac­ticing law were: GUS CIFELLI, JOE SHANNON, JIM MCLAUGHLIN, FRED FRIEND, JIM SWEENEY, TOM FARLEY, DON MAHONEY, JOE BECKER and JERRY FRAZEL. JOHN BONESSI and BUD IMBUS are practicing medi­dnc. BOB LALLY, CHUCK PERRIN and ED SEXTON tied for first place in having eleven chil­dren. ED FOLEY is reduced to second place vnih 
r\ ^ 
..^. ^\ 


CLASS OF 1950 

nine children. RAY DUNNE and BOB SLOCUM are yet unmarried and look fine. (For the wives of those who attended the reunion, I report that everyone was on his best behaWor, wore the clean shirts that you packed, and had the opportunity to show the pictures in his wallet. JIM SLATTERY and DICK SOISSON tied for the fastest draw to the wallet to show pictures of their loved ones.) 
I attended a reception at the Notre Dame Law School by Dean O'Meara prior to the Friday night Class Dinner and who was there but TOM FLYNN '35, whom all of my NROTC classmates will remember for giving Father Hesburgh and ourselves Hawaiian hospitality at its finest on our summer cruises in 1948 and 1949. Tom sends his best to all of you. 
Fr. Hesburgh and FR. TOM BRENNAN SR. aUo send you their best regards. Father Brcnnan looks as good and youthful right at the present as he did when he used to drop-kick a book to the back of the room in our Logic class in 1946. 
After the Saturday night Alumni Banquet LEON HART, BILL WIGHTKIN, ROD JOHNSON, BUD ROMANO, GUS CIFELLI, TOM McILVLE, BOB LALLY, MOOSE KRAUSE, DICK KLEE and myself had a spirited con^-crsalion with Coach Ara Parseghian and Father Hesburgh. Coach Parseghian looked at the "giants" present and 
MAJ. VICTOR A. DeFIORI *5t LLB '52 lets daughter Cecilia, 2, get a good look at the Commendation Meda] just awarded him for outstanding service as chief of the military justice branch, Judge Advocate Di­vision, U.S. Army Communications Zone, Europe. Vic is moving to Ft. Leavenworth, Kan. for staff college from his base in Orleans, France with his ^vife, Dorothy, and their seven children. 
(U.S. Army photo.) 

j^-^ 
stated, "No wonder you never lost a game.** He is a wonderful person and he and his staff have set a high example on the campus. LEON HART'S oldest son is one inch taller than Leon. JIM FRITCH*5 furniture company did a beautiful job in furnishing the new library. BILL CCONNELL JR. of Rochester and DICK KLEE of Buffalo are among the leaders in science. JOHN FERRY and JOHN RYAN are as fine as ever. JIM HOLWAY sent a telegram of congratulations from Rio de Janeiro stating he could not attend due to the 5,000 miles, (and probably because he is unmar­ried and there are senoritas in Brazil). I am alu-a>-s happy to meet Jim at the Miami airport and have a drink with him when he flies through here from Washington to Rio. BOB HOCKMAN is a General Motois metallurgist in Atlanta. JOE HICKEY continues as a distinguished Notre Dame builder. HARVEY NADE.\U comes to my neck of the woods for international sail racing. BILL SIL\NAHAN is still the twinkling Irish fbgpole climber you remember. JOHN McSHANE brought BOB KANE and the Indianapolis crew in his "Shamrock bus" -— with police escort, no less. ROLAND KELLY is with WSBT (South Bend). VERNE KELLEY and HUGH MULLIGAN are fine Chicago businessmen. RUSS 5KALL, my UB­deigrad roommate (my law school roommates were from St. Mary*s —• Mary Pat Feely Thornton, and children John, Jane and Deborah) flew in in his Cessna 172, took umpteen photos wnth three sets of cameras, and we hope to reproduce some here later. Other ex-Campion men seen were JERRY SWEENEY, now a CPA, and FR. TOM McNALLY CSC editor of the Catholic Boy; the now FR­BERNIE GRAY, now in Louisville, looks wonder­ful. In fact I must admit everyone looked fine. Classmates whose wives concurrently attended the SMC I3th Year Reunion, besides myself, were: TOM O'GRADY, JIM McLAUGHLIN, CARL LECHNER. DICK KLEE, MOE FERRITER and DAN OSBERGER. I have not given all of the re­union dope by a long shot, so what I have omitted 
— just write me and tell me. If you are down my way — \Tsit me; if you do not want to visit me when here, call; if you cannot call me, call MACK SCHAEFER or MIKE O'NEILL or LARRY COUTRE (F.B.I.) in Miami and they will give me the latest information; and if you cannot do any of that, smile as you fly by. 
The ears of cverj-one not at the zcuulon ihouid have been buzzing June ! 1-13. We asked about every one of you, what you were doing, your fam­ily your business, your waistline — all proof posi­tive that everyone is interested in you. The foUow­ing is a list of those not previously mentioned who attended the reunion. I lost a page of my notes and it is not complete. All of the fellovrs who attended the reunion say "Hello'* and **Best regards*' to all of you who did not: NICHOLAS ANGELOTTI, BILL ARZBAECHER. GERRY BEGLEV, PAT BUTLER, JIM CARBERRY, JIM CONWAY, ART CURRAN, ED DENNING, BILL DONOVAN, JIM FISHER. JERRY FRAZEL, JERRY FREE­MAN, PETE FRIDAY, ALLEN FANDALT, JOHN HE-ALY, JOE HERRINGTON. BERNIE 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 53 
HODAPP. JIM JENNEWEIN; TOM JOtlNSON, 
GEORGE LANDIS, DICK LESLIE, BOB LU­
rmk, JOHN McGRODER, DICK MAKER, 
TOM MALEC, DICK MURPHY, CHARLES 
NEFF, JOHN NUSSKERX, GEORGE O'BRIEN', 
TONY ORTIZ. JOE OTOOLE, VAL REISIG, 
TOM ROXEY, BOB SAXFORD, BILL TARDANI, 
HARRY TROY, BILL VERDON'K, JIM ^VELCH, 
BOB WELCH, JOHN ^N'HALEN, WALT WIS­
SEL, DON WOLFE, UVRRY DONOVAN, 
Anyone I omitted — uiitc mc; any incorrect ad­
dresses on the October 1954- class list sent to you, 
\*-ritc me. Wc want to kno\%- what all of you are 
doing. Give mc enough information to keep this 
column packed full. 
From the .Alumni Office: MERVILLE P. MEYER has been named regional manager, mid-Atlantic region, for Parkcr-Hannifin Corp- and wnll work out of Bala Cynw\-d, Pa., for the pneumatics and hydraulics company. JOHN W. THORNTON has become partner in the law* firm of Dixon, Dejamcttc, Bradford, Wil­liams, McKay & Kimbrcll in Miami. ROLAND A. KELLY figured in a recent scries of executive changes at WSB T and \VSBT-TV radio and tele\ision stations in South Bend. Roland was mo\*ed up to ncvv's director of botit stations owned by The South Bend Tribune Corp. RICHARD I. GAGNON has been elected pres­ident ot the Industrial Foundation, a South Bcnd­Mishau'aka. Chamber of Commerce afEHatc. The foundation seeks new industries or improvements in existing ones in the area. JOHN F. CONNOR has been elected a director of A. G. Becker & Co., a Chicago-based invcstmeilt banking and brokerage firm. DR. EUGENE CAMPANALE has been named director of the education division of St. Mary's College. Dr. CampanaTc will supcrx-ise all teacher-training programs on the campus in the newly Created post. JOSEPH R. GASP.ARELLA has been awarded a master of architecture degree from the Carnegie Institute of Technology*, Pittsburgh, Pa. JOHN T. MURPm", pubh'c-afTairs manager for Allstate Insurance Co.*s Illinois region, is chairman of public relations and promotion for the Skokie (III.) Valley United Crusade. ROBERT J. BOSLER, a major In the U.S. Air Force, was graduated from the USAF Command and Staff College at Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala., recently. The college is a senior military education Institution which prepares officers for higher com­mand and staH" positions. ROY £. WENDELL has been appointed manager 

of public information for the Spcrry Gyroscope Co. in Great Neck, N.Y., division of Spcrry Rand Corp. Father RICHARD T. JOHN OSC is the new 
prior of the Crosier Monastery at Wawasce, Ind. "JUNGLE JIM" MARTIN, end and tackle under Frank Leahy, has retired from professional football, ending his career with the Washington Redskins. Jungle Jim led the Redskins in scoring last season with 35 extra, points and 12 field goals. An All-America tackle his senior year at ND, Jim earned the nickname for his WW II record in the South Padfic. ROBERT G. RUETZ was director of the Opera Workshop at Southwest Missouri State College for the production of Pai^ello's The Barber of Seville this summer. 
•C I Robert Klingcnbergcr 
« I 3405 Thames Dr. Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JOHN BROWNE, EDWARD KEARNEY, RON­ALD S. MALEC. 
From the Alumni Office: 
CHARLES H. O'BRIEN wiU be a xisiUng lecturer in history at Sktdmore College, Saratoga Springs, N.V., during the coming term. He is a candidate for bis doctorate at Columbia U. 
E\ah p. >VROBLICKY has been promoted to associate professor of physical education at Califor­nia State College at Los Angeles. 

CHARLES E. SHE^VALTER JR. has moved with his wife and eight children ("Four ot each,'* w^rites Chuck) to Kansas City, Mo., where he will be controller of the Coimnerce Trust Co. 
JOHN O. SWEENEY has bcenappointed manager of the international division of the Seiberling Tire & Rubber Co. He was previously sales director for Firestone International Co.'s Buenos Aires, Argen­tina, plant. 
ECUADOR ALUMNI—Rev. Robert Pel­ton CSC, center, visits M-ith ND alumni in his recent \isit to Quito, Ecuador, This ^^-as the first Holy Cross Father many had seen since graduation, or since the visit of Father Hesburgh in 1956. More than 14 aliunni are registered with the Quito Club ranging from Class of '48 to '64. 
•e ^ Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W.Va. 
From the iMumnI Office: 

Two members of the Class of '52 have finally cashed In on tlicir efforts to free a classmate and his family from the poverty and oppression of Castro's Cuba. DON MULLANEY and JOSEPH B'\'RNE, both members of the Dearborn, Mich. ND Club, misei^ $1,'H)0 trom University alumni to finance the moving and resettlement of ALBERTO SAU^\R , his wife and their four children. About $800 of the money went for plane tickets for the family to Windsor, Canada, via Mexico City. The classmates, both Ford Motor Co. engineers, have arranged for several Canadian firms to interview the civil-engineering graduate Salazar. Son of an oil-company executive, Alberto w*as refused a job in the nationalized industries because he refused to join the Cuban Communist Party. 
CARL R. CUNNINGH.\M has been as­signed to work a year with .Alfred Franken­stein, music and art critic with the San Francisco Chronicle^ as part of a project for training music critics at the University of Southern California. Only five persons arc enrolled in the unique pro­gram operating under a Rockefeller Foundation grant. 
JOSEPH BELLON is another ND grad moving up in the world of CBS. He was recently named manager of business affairs for CBS News. 
Capt. WILLIAM F. DELANEY USAF has been awarded tltc Air Force Commendation Medal at Kelly Mr Force Base, Tex. 
DR. ARTHUR SCHULTE has been raised to the rank of associate professor in the college of business administration at the U. of Portland. 
GEORGE F. HERO, a Miami attorney and pres­ident of the ND Club of Greater Miami, took on a tax deduction recently when he married the for­mer Miss Marie K. Zerbe>*. George also writes that the Miami Club has made arrangements for altmmi coming to see the ND-MiamI game November 27. Five hundred rooms are available at the Deauxille Hotel on Miami Beach for the entire weekend at 57 per person, double daily iKcupancy. A seven-course dinner and full-course brunch can be added for an additional IJt per person, George writes. All interested persons can write him at 40 NE 75th Street, Miami, Fla. 
David A. McElvain 
•53 2328 Alexander Terrace HtMncwood. HL 

I regret having to pass on the sad news of the sudden death of JOE TRUCCO on April 28, as the result of an accident on a construction site in Lombard, 111. Joe is survived by his wife Ann and seven children In Elmhurst, 111. I know that he and his family will be continually in your prayers. 
Received a note a while back from PAUL FARMER, extolling the virtues of Albuquerque, N.M., where he has staked a claim to continuous 
sunshine. Paul is controller of the Bradbury and 
Stamm Construction Co., which specializes In com­
mercial buildings. QUENTIN MISCHKE and JIM 
RYAN are also local residents; Quentin Is assistant 
vice-president of the Albuquerque National Bank 
and Jim is manager of the AK'arado Hotel, report­
edly finest in the city. Thanks for the report, Paul. 
Another banker of note is GEORGE FARRELL, 

and my underground tells mc that as assistant 
vice-president of the Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh, 
George has been spending considerable time "do\\'n 
under,'' seeking out investment opportunities in 
Australia for some oi that Pennsylvania capital. 
Elsewhere In the financial world, JOE PAGLIARI 
was recently appointed treasurer and counsel of 
the Percy Wilson Mortgage Company in Chicago. 
As you can see, material is rather scarce to main­

tain this colum's standing as otic of the highlights 
of American literature. To assist in the achievement 
of the coveted Pulitzer Prize for Class Column 
Reporting, I would be most appreciative of some 
input from the field. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOHN C. MOLEND.A of North Liberty, Ind., 

has joined the Credit Bureau of South Bend in 
cliargc of sales and public relations. 
JOHN T. MULVIHILL returned to ND Law 

School in 1962 and since graduation with a law 
degree has joined the firm of Law, Fallon, Weath­
ers and Richardson in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
CARL E. NICKELS JR. has been appointed assistant sccretarj' to the Hanna Mining Co., Cleve­land, Ohio. He joined the companv in 1953. 
- RICHARD C. WAGNER has joined the law firm of Miserendino, Knill & Folcv of Buffalo, N.Y. 
EDWARD DUGGAN JR. and his five children attended commencement ceremonies this summer — to see Mrs. Janet Duggan, wife and mother, re­ceive her bachelor of science degree in nursing from Seton Hall U., Newark, N.J. Janet says the degree is the result of family collaboration: the children agreed by being born at times not inter­fering with studies (she has had all of their five children in the last five years). Any further study planned? Ed wants to get his MA, *'so it's his turn now," Janet sa\-s. 
DONALD K. ROSS has been named executive director of the ND Foundation, succeeding JAMES 
W. FRICK '51, who has been named \'ice-president of public relations and development. Don has been assistant director in cliarge of the Chicago office since 1962. 
DR. EMIL T. HOFMAN has been appointed assistant dean of the College of Science. He has been assistant head of the department of chemistry. 
tgjl MQton J. Bcaudine 21 Signal HiU Blvd. 
E. St. Louis, Bl. 
WHY! 

Why can't you take just 15 or 20 minutes to drop me a line? I'm not a fiction writer. In fact, I'm not any kind of a writer whicli makes these articles doubly lough. 
We'll have our annual blast, as usual, after the first home game of the season — October 2 — against Northwestern. 
It is with deepest regret wc learned of the death of our classmate JOE J. TRUCCO. Joe died on April 28. I'm sure you'll all want to remember Joe in your prayers. 
Does anyone know the whereabouts of one NED SEIM? 
Did you hear the news about JACK PITTAS? 

Following is a list of 25 classmates picked at ran­dom. For the first 10 of these fortunate young men who write mc a letter in time for the December 1965 deadline we will award the following prizes. 
1) An autographed picture of JAKE NOONAN. 
2) An assortment of Goldwatcr-Miller buttons and pennants. 3) Two tickets to the next Liston-Clay fight and 4) A golf lesson from FRANK RAITH, PAUL KRAUSE or TON'Y MANDOHNI, depend­ing on your location. Hurry! 
Here's the lucky 23: JOHN P. LANDIG, JIM LANTIS, CHARLES C.ASEAU, DICK RYAL, WEBB ARCENE.AUX, ROGER FERN. HUBERT MADDEN. ROGER VALOISERRI, JIM De-COURSEY, ROD DUFF, LEN DURY, EARL HOLMES, ED DOYLE, KEN ANGYAL, JOE COOK, JOHN JARNOT, HAL RILEY (Doctor), RAY WEST, JOHN STRICKROOT, JEROME FONS, TOM CAMPBELL, JOHN SETTER, CHRIS MALONE, FRANK JOHNSTON, JIM DURKIN, BRUCE HARRISON, JOHN ENGEL­HARDT, PAT CARRICO, JAY DOUGL.\S, DICK FOLEY, JOE COSGROVE, NED SEIM. 
You may. think this article is brief. You're right. 

Hdp! 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September-October^ 1965 
From the Alumni Office: REV. JAMES E. KELLY CSC has been directed to the U. of Portland to teach sociology there. MAJ. JOSEPH J. MUHLHERR and hU wife rcccntlj' returned from a three-year tour of duty in Kasscl, Germany. He %vas to enter the Com­mand General Staff College at Fort Leaven\%-orth, Kan., in August. JOSEPH W. SIMMONS has been appointed as­sociate professor of physics at La Salle College, Philadelphia, Pa. MICHAEL E. LONG has been named assoaate editor of The Sign, a national Catholic magazine. He was assistant managing editor of the Baltimore Catholic Review where from 1961-63 he won five first-place awards from the Delaware Press Asso­ciation. He received a MA degree in journalism from Marquette in June. JOHN LYON has been awarded a Danforth Teacher Grant for the coming year to finish his doctoral work. John has been teaching history at Duquesne U. since 1960 and is now an associate professor there. He w-ill complete his dissertation at the U. of Pittsburgh. His study is entitled "The Reaction of English Catholics to Developments in the Earth and Life Sciences, 1830-18«." MAJ. THOMAS E. SCHWIETZ has been grad­uated with honors from the Air Force Command and Staff College at Max^vcU .^ir Force Base, Ala. The institution prepares officers for higher command and staff positions. LEWIS H. BLAKEV SR-, a structural engineer in the oflicc of the chief of engineers. Department of the Army, was presented the Pace Award re­cently by Secretary of the Army Stephen Ailcs. The award is made to an Army officer and a civilian who have made "outstanding contributions to the Army." Lewis directed studies of the air intake and cxliaust systems for the Nike X missile. JOHN E. KELSCH has been named manager of primary accounting services in the control division of Xerox Corp. in Rocliestcr, N.Y. RAY "BUD" EMRICK has become the head basketball coach ai Clay High School .-in South Bend. He was formerly B-tcam basketball coach at South Bend's Central High. DON PENZA will be freshman football coach at the U. of Wyoming this year while doing graduate work there. He has retired as head football coach at Assumption High School, Wisconsin Rapids, Wis. CAPT. THOMAS M. HAMLIN left the U.S. in July to join the 3rd Marine Division in Southeast Asia, according to a note received in the Alumni OfHce. 
Paul Fullmer 
•55 7344 N. Ridge Blvd. Chicago, HI. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

RICHARD ALFES, JOHN AQUILLA, THOMAS ARMSTRONG, RONALD AUER, JAMES BAR­RY, R. J. BAUDENDISTEL, RICHARD A. BEEMAN, LEROY BELKNAP, JOHN BENDEL, ROBERT BENSON, JAMES BERGQUIST, THE­ODORE BINTZ, WILLIAM BIRMINGHAM, RICHARD BOLAND, EDWARD BORUS, THOM­AS BOSSE, JAMES E. BOURNE, JEREMIAH F. BRANSFIELD, JAMES BROUGHTON, PETER BRYANT, LAWRENCE BUCKLEY, RICHARD BURKE, JEROME BURNS, ROBERT D. BURNS, WALTER CrVBRAL, ROBERT CAFFARELU, JAMES CAHILL, WILLIAM CANNING, THOM­AS CAREY, EUGENE CARRABINE, JAMES CARROLL, JOHN CASEY, JOSEPH CASASAN­TA, EMMET CASSIDY, PHILIP CHINN, MAURICE CICCIARELLI, JOHN CLEMENCY, CHARLES COLLINS, RICHARD CONDIT, JOHN CONNAUGHTON, RICHARD CONNELLY, RICHARD COOK, PAUL COUTLEE, THOMAS COZAD, LEE CREAN, MARTIN A. CULHANE, MICHAEL CULLINAN, JOSEPH C. DALEY, HOWARD DELINE, EDWARD J. DEMPSEY, PAT DiPASQUALE, JOHN DONAHUE, GEORGE 
R. DONAHUE, LAWRENCE DOWNEY, THOM­AS DRISCOLL, DONN DUFFY, JOHN EV­RARD, FRANK L. FLORIAN, CHRIS FLYNN, JACKSON FLYNN, JOHN FLYNN, GEORGE S. FORD, RICHARD FRASOR, DONALD FREUND, JEROME FROEHLICH, PAUL FULLMER, JOHN BRIAN GAFFNEY, DONALD GALLAGHER, THOMAS GALLAGHER, THOMAS GALLIGAN, RICHARD GAUTHIER, ROBERT GERVAIS, EUGENE GETTY, GEORGE GIST, JOHN GITS, MARTIN GLEASON, ROBERT GOSDICK, JAMES GRIFFIN, JEROME GROARK, JOHN GROGAN, RICHARD GRONER, JOSEPH HAG­GERTY, ROBERT HAIDINGER, RICHARD HAIRSINE, NEAL HALLORAN, PAUL HANLON, HOWARD HART, JOHN M. HARTIGAN, LEO 
NASHVILLE—^Members pose with guests at the Univenal Notre Dame N%^t dinner at which the Man of the Year award was presented to Most Rev. Joseph A. Durick, DJ>., bishop of Nashville. Left to right are: Charles Spicba '54; Nich Varallo '63; Buddy Young, former Illinois and Baltimore Colts football star; Fr. John Heurich, dub chaplain, who accepted the plaque for Bishop Durick; Jim GreenweU '34; and Ray Kem|^ fonner athletic director, Tennessee A & I. 
HAWK, THONfAS L. HAYES, JAMES HES­BURGH, JOHN HESTER, RICHARD HICKS, GER.ARD HILLSMAN, J. NOR.MAN HIPSKIND, ROBERT HOFF^HSTER, LOUIS HUBER, ROB­ERT HUNECK, ROBERT HUTCHISON, JAMES IRWIN, EDWARD JANSSEN, JOSEPH KEAR­NEY, EDWARD FRANCIS KELLY, .\UCHAEL KELLY, JOHN KENNEDY, T. GAVIN KING, JA.MES T. KORTE, ROLAND KOEBER, ROBERT KUNZE, WILLIAM L.\RKIN, CHRIS LARSEN, WILLIAM LEONARD, CY LINDEMANN, JOHN LOCHTEFELD, FRiVNK LOLLI, ROBERT LUPE, JOSEPH .\LADIGAN, THOMAS MAGILL, JOHN MAHONEY, JOHN MANIX, JOHN F. MARCHAL, THO.NLAS G. MARKO, NEAL MASON, WILLL\M MAY, ROBERT McAU-LIFFE, ROBERT J. McCARREN, BERNARD McCLOREY, GREG .McCORMACK, RICHARD McCORMICK, THONUS McCOY, JOSEPH B. -McGLYNN, ROBERT McGRATH, JOSEPH Mc-GRAW, WILLIA.M McLAIN, THOMAS MEGLEN, JOHN ^^SKEL, JAMES MONGELLO, LOUIS MONTEIL, ROBERT -MOORE, P. RICHARD .MUELLER, NEIL NABER, ROBERT NAVARRE, R. JA.MES .VIEDERRITER, TIMOTHY NORTON, PATRICK O'DONNELL, JOHN O'MEARA, JAMES O'SHEA, MICHAEL O'TOOLE, RICH­ARD PADON, JOHN PALMISANO, EDWARD PETRUSKA, PAUL PFOHL, JOHN PINTER, RAY POKROP, CHARLES F. POLLNOW, JAMES A. PORCARI, H. EDWARD PREIN, TIMOTHY RAUH, STEPHEN REBOR-V FRANK REIDY, BENJAMIN T. REIDY, NORBERT REINER, WILLIA.M RELPH, J. PETER RITTEN, PETER RITTENHOUSE, GEORGE ROO.NEY, ROBERT J. RUSSELL, HUGH SCHAEFER, DAVID T. SCHEELE, JAMES SCHENKEL, ED­WARD SCHICKLER, THOMAS SCHREITMUEL­LER, GEORGE R. SEIKEL, GERALD SHEAHAN, PATRICK SHEEHAN, GEORGE SHELTON, JOHN SHEPERD, JAMES SIEGER, JOSEPH SMITH, BERNARD SMYTH, OWEN SODETZ, WILLIAM STAHL, EDWARD STENGER, JOHN STEPHENS, JAMES STEVENS, \HC K STEW­ART, WILLIAM J. STOUTENBURGH, ARTHUR SULLIVAN, JAMES E. SULLIVAN, GEORGE SUNKEL, PETER SUTHERLAND, JOSEPH SWIFT, FRED THOMAS, WILLIAM TICE, J. RUSS TOOHEY, DONALD TOTTEN, BERNARD TRACEY, JOHN TRAMONTINE, WILLIAM TUNELL, JOSEPH TURK, JAMES VACHRIS, ANTHONY VALLACE, GEORGE VanBESIEN, ROBERT VOYT, JAMES F. WALSH, MICHAEL 
J. WARD, WILLUM WELCH, ROBERT WJNG, JAMES YONKE, LOUIS ZEFRAN. 
WOW! and a good time Vi'os had by all!!! 
Congratulations to tlie 225 plus who attended the reunion, giving tlie Class of *53 the largest repre­sentation at the gathering. The group was so out­standing that a large niunber of awards w*ere made. Here are those that were recorded for posterity: 
BEST ORGANIZER AWARD — GEORGE SHELTON, who handled the preliminary work including the postcard contacts that assured the fantastic turnout, and LEE CRE.AN, who took care of the on-the-5cene arrangements, share this one. Lee, who has four children, is about to take on an e.-cecutive position with the government's poverty program. His current address is 14062 State Rd. 23, Granger, Ind. George recently moved into a new house at 1109 Forest Ave., Wilmette. Georgej; treasurer of the A. L. Jackson Co. (con­struction^, also has four offspring. 
TOP CONDITION AWARD — DICK FRASOR, who now lives at 1806 .Ave. L. in Sterling, HI., with w-ife, Jane, and four children, still can play hand­ball without a rest from morning until night. Dick is general foreman for Northwestern Steel & Wire Co. 
GRAYBEARD .AWARD — JIM O'SHEA, who hasn't got a dark hair on his head, got a stiff run this time from TOM MAGILL, who has a few (a darn few!). Jim b activ'e in both newspaper and TV (Jolly Jim Show) tvorfc in Columbia, S.C. Jim and Carmella can be reached at I4I0 Shirley St. Tom, a supervisor with Western Electric, lives at 821 S. Ott St. 
CAREER HAS .AWARD — WALT CABRAL, who has just finished a pleasant Army hitch with the ROTC unit at Tulane, is heading for Viet Nam. Capt. Walt has five children. 
DOME AWARD — No, this isn't for the year­book. JOHN BE.\DEL successfully defended his title, so you know it's for the man without any hair. John, Eileen, and their four children live at 8129 Richmond Ct., Wauwatosa, Wis. John received some tough competition, however, from JIM DELINE (2621 S. Kearney, Denver, sales rep. for Mead Coip., four boys), ED SCHICKLER (215 Meadow Lane, Webster, N.Y., section head for RF Commtmications, boy and girl), JOHN CON­N.AUGHTON (203 E. Benton St., Wapakoneto, Ohio, attorney and hard guy bachelor), and the dapper S.ARS FORD (361 French St., Bridgeport, Conn., attorney and father of three). 
PONCE DE LEON AWARD — RICK HICKS, Chicago's prosperous broker (Dean Witter & Co.), won this hands down. He looks just like the year­book photo. Rick and Fat have two boys. 
TO.VY G.ALE.VTO AWARD — Now, gals, get the drinking man's diet out. These were the men chosen by the Nominating Committee [not ine!) as those who had put on the most aroimd the belt. The winners in the senior division are JIM YONKE, TO.M GALLIGAN, JIM FORCAKI, JIM WALSH and BOB RONEY. Jim is oCSce manager for Jamieson Insurance (]]72 S. lEaat Ave., Oak Park, three children). Tom is a tax attoiiiey 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 55 
for Magnavox (2536 Shady Oak Drive, Fort AVayne, 
three girls). Jim Porcari is executive director of 
the Rochester (N-Y.) Housing Authority (2W Fair­
fax Rd., Rochester). Jim Walsh, the ex-Bengal 
Bouts champ, is a counsellor in South Bend. Bob is 
a Detroit architect (840 Lalceshorc Rd., Grosse 
Fointe Shores, two children). 
In the junior dix-ision the ivinners were JOHN 

WACK, DICK HAIRSIKE and JIM CARROLL. 
John is the traveling history professor. Dick is 
deputy comptroller for the Wlmlngton Trust Co. 
(2219 Heam Rd., three children). JJm is manager 
of Ernst & Ernst's Corpus Christi office (422G 
Driftwood, two children). 
EN'DURAN'CE AWARD — Chicago's own TOM DRISCOLL copped this one. Tom is a partner in KefTcries, Inc. (broker). Tom keeps his eye on five young ones at 9836 S. Damen, Chicago. 
GOOD COXDUCT A^VARD — TOM ARM­STRONG, who was in contention for several other awards, came in first here. Tom is president of Armstrong Textiles, Inc., in Spartanburg, S.C. He, Mary Ellen and their three children clip the coupons at 129 Romainc Dr. 
LA ROSA AWARD — LOU ZEFRAN, Chicago's biendly undertaker, w*on this coveted au-ard. Lou has tu*o children back home at 1943 W. Cermak Rd. in the Windy City. 
BABE RUTH AWARD — Leaders on the dia­mond were DA\'E SCHEELE and JOHN HESTER. Dave is account manager for IBM. He lives at 3418 
N. Pershing Dr., Arlington, Va. He has two Httlc gals. John, who greeted daughter Eileen eight months ago at 14612 Keystone, Chicago, is with BIyth &. Co. 
JOHN GARY AWARD — JI.M BARRY, the Mih\*aukee barrister, had the most dulcet tones. Jim is president of his oi^n industrial real estate 6rm. He has a little boy, almost a year now, and lives at 735 N. \Vater St. 
WHEELER-DEALER AWARD — Tlierc was a threc-\%*ay tic here — BOB BAUDENDISTEL, who took a suite dou-ntown instead of enjoying the delights of the Dillon Hilton; BOB GERVAIS, who is president of more California alumni clubs than he can count; and TOM BOSSE, who just bought an industrial film studio. Bob lives in Fcnton, Mo., with ivife, Jeanne, and daughter, Lisa. Bob Gcr­\-ais, program manager for Douglas Aircraft, has five children and lives at 3219 Rosewood Ave., V!. Los Angeles. For the record Tom is vice-president of Hartzmark & Co., brokerage house. Tom has three deductions at 1206 Cleveland Heights Blvd., Cleveland Heights. 
IRON STO.\fACH AlVARD — JACK DONA­HUE ate all the hot dogs and cliill that South Bend could offer and managed to live. Jack is as­sistant production manager of the Famous Artists' schools. His brood (three children] can be found at 14 Crocus Lane, Non^'alk, Conn. 
STIFF UPPER LIP AWARD — JOHN COR­
CLASS OF 1955 

BETT 0'ME.\RA, who didn't take his suspenders 
off until mid\*-ay in the festivities, picks up this 
pennant. A member of one of Detroit's largest law 
firms, John has two children. 
DOWNTOW.\ AWARD — PAUL PFOHL, one 

of our small but gritty classmates, checked out 
more cultural utabllshments in the area than any­
one else. A stockbroker for McDonnell & Co., Paul 
has five children waiting for him eacli night at 8841 
S. Constance In Chicago. 
BABY FACE A^VARD — Can you Imagine, 

BUTCH VALLACE was asked lor his ID three 
different times at friendly pubs in SB? Butch is in 
the mortgage real estate department of the Chem­
ical Bank & Trust Co. He Itas three boys and a 
little girl at 197 Elton Rd,, Garden City, N.Y. 
NICE GVY AU'ARD — BERNIE SMYTH has 

to get this one. Besides being a quiet neighbor for 
the weekend, I think he gabbed with more gu>'S 
than anyone else. Bemie is an industrial-relations 
counsellor in the Spokane and Portland areas. 
NIGHT-OWL AWARD — DON DUFFY, an ac­

count executive for Metromedia, thought it foolish 
to waste \-aluable time and tried to go without any 
sleep. He almost made it! Donn lives at 6004 Green­
tree Rd., Bethesda, Md. (three children). 
EARLY BIRD A\VARD — TIic first man I saw at the bar each day (just checking, of course!) was PAUL HANLON, New Jersej-'s outstanding young man of the year. He claimed, of course, that this was just his early Student Center training. 
NO-DOZE AWARD — GERRY SHEAHAN ar­rived tired and left the same way. AVho cares? Business is good! Gerry is regional administrator for Encyclopaedia Brltannlca. 
CLOTHES HORSE AWARD — Tlie man of many eye-catching outfits, T. GAVIN KING, edged out some of his oil friends from the Southwest. Gavin, who sported a pair of the classiest sum­mer shoes you have ever seen, Is a Tulsa attorney. Uncle Sam sends his tax form to 1553 Swan Drive. 
FORMALITY AWARD — One of GaWn's Tulsa friends, JOE McGRAW, didn't take off his coat and tie the whole time he was in town. Joe (2431 20lh St.) Is a member of the Oklahoma House of Rcprcscn tativcs. 
BLACK CAT AWARD — I hope that CHARLIE POLLNOW doesn't have a run of bad luck after JIM YONKE broke his glasses into a million pieces in one of the most spectacular homc-plalc crashes in baseball histor\'. Charlie is vice-president of Vestal Labs. His three children come in for dinner at 6 Wood Acre Rd. in St. Louis. 
MOBY DICK AWARD — Our illustrious leader, DICK BURKE, led the troops to tlic old swim­ming hole Saturday afternoon after showing ' his ability as a lector at Mass that morning. Dick, a Chicago attorney, lives at 922 William St. in River Forest (two children). 
TOP STORYTELLER AAVARD — JOE DALEY (28 Idlewild Lane," "Mataw-an, N.J.), tliat pre-mcd turned lawyer, kept telling taller ones as the week­
end progressed. He's w*ith the SEC. 
DUFFER AWARD — JERRY BRANSFIELD 

moved into the big leagues. Already holder of the 
Chicago Club's endurance trophy for llnksmanship 
(or lack of it). Robes proved that he could hack 
around the ND course, too. Jerry, another Chicago 
legal-caglc (1018 N. Kcnilworth, Oak Park, boy 
and girl), does have good form, though, for a little 
round man. 
SHORTEST STAY — JIM EHRET, recenUy promotcd to lieutenant commander, stopped on his way to a family reunion In Chicago. 
BIG BROTHER AWARD — JIM HESBURGH has been spending most of his time on Internationa! flights as head of the foreign division of AVheel­abrator, a large Mishawaka firm. 
MUSTANG AWARD — LARRY BUCKLEY, who has a five-o'clock shadow by the time he gets to the office, was one of the ringleaders all week­end. Larry is assistant product manager for the General Cable Co. He has three boys and two girls. Home is 111 Lou Ave. in Kings Park, N.Y. 
BUSHMAN AWARD — PAT DIPASQUALE arrived with one of the greatest beards in history*. Pat, who has two little girls, is assistant professor ^ of medlaev'al studies at the University of Oregon. 
LATE-TO-AVORK MONDAY AWARD — After making attempts all morning JIM GRIFFIN, an­other Windy City attorney, finally made it to the office by noon. He was tired only from keeping his friends out of trouble for three da>-s. Jtin, Bunni and their four young Irishmen moved into a new* house at 6632 N. Chlcora, Chicago, in May. 
BEST HOUSEKEEPER AWARD — MIKE HEGARTY, who put things away so vvcll 10 years ­ago in a secret cubbyhole in his Dillon room that he could pull them out on cue, Is the winner here. ^nke is partner in Porritt, Hcgarty & O'Rourke. He and wife, Jane, live at 17610 Parkside in "~ Detroit. 
SOFT GUY AAVARD — Tlie winner is JERRY PRASSAS, who went back to Chicago Saturday night for a date; closely followed by JOHN WEITHERS, who stayed at his summer home ­nearby. 
FELIX FRANKFURTER AAVARD — JIM ­IRWIN, who led his law-scliool class, now is doubling in the classroom and a private law firm. ­Jim and Pat, who call 441 Emerson Ave., Hamilton, Ohio home, have three children. 
SENATORIAL AWARD — Tliat famous yearbook cliaracter. Senator ROY BELKNAP, was on hand, ~ lamenting the absence of his old sidekick, FRED ECKART. Roy, who now has four children, is vice-president of McDonnell & Co. in Detroit. He and Maureen entertain at 967 Dur5lc>- Rd., Bloom­field Hills. 
PURPLE HEART AWARD — BOB HAIDINGER picked up this bauble, due to some ovcrexubcrant classmates. Bob, director of industrial relations for _ 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 1965 
AMF, lives at 720 E. HHIcrcst Rd., York, Pa., has 
three little ones. 
PULLMAN AWARD — It seems that NEAL 
HALLORAN ^^-as the only one in the class who 
needed one of those little Pullman ladders to get 
down from his top bunk. The drinking man's diet 
will" take off those pounds, Ncal! The big spender 
just bought a nc^v house at 7183 N. Mankatc, 
Chicago. 
MAYFLOWER A^VARD — ED KELLY is about 
the "movingcst" guy I know. He has loaded his 
gear into a moving van about four times in the 
last two years. At last report he was district man­
ager for the PMC Corp., but ready to go again. 
He and Roberta have four children. 
SOUR GRAPES AWARD — JOFF FLYNN took 
one look at the crowded golf course and headed 
for his priv-ate links. Jack, after checking out his 
four children at 814 Jackson, River Forest, III., 
heads for his olHce supply company. 
KIWI A\VARD — That old stewardess watcher, 
PAT O'DO.V.NELL, was right in the midst of 
things, Pat and his Kiwi Club member, Joan, live 
at 19 Scdgcwick Lane, Stony Brook, N.Y. There 
were no volunteers for the flight he piloted east for 
American Airlines on Sunday. 
TIE-GOES-TO-THE-RUXNER AWARD — JACK 
STEPHE.VS pro^'cd that he Is as adept at playing 
first base while holding a cup of beer in one hand 
as he was popping in those jump shots on the bas­
ketball court. Now with Interlakc Steel, Junior has 
three young ones home at 3900 W. 212th PI., Mat­
teson, III. 
TRAVELER'S AID AWARD — Some people just 
need help and GEORGE ROONEY proved it at the 
reunion. George, an account executive with Oxford 
Mfg. Co. and president of his local Jaycce organi­

zation, gets his mail at 154 Riverside Dr., Basking 
Ridge, y.J. He Has five children. 
BETn ' GRABLE AWARD — Bermudas arc in, 

but some of those wearing them were '*out of it." 
Co-winners of this award were PHIL CHINN (2953 
Wyoming St., Flint) and GY LINDEMANX. Sales 
Manager Cy lives at 1233 Lily Rd., Oconomowoc, 
Wis., with his gang, which includes four boys and 

a girl. 
DROOPY DR^VWERS AWARD — Either he's lost 

weight or . . . well, any^vay ART SULLIVAN had 
a novel outfit Saturday afternoon. Art is regional 
manager of Minnesota Mutual in Atlanta. He has 
four children; calls 2938 Braithwood Ct. home. 
BROTHER BOOKSTORE AWARD — MIKE 

WARD not only picked up a few trinkets at the 
bookstore, but his wife, Harriet, was seen bu>'ing 
ND outfits for all five little Wards. Mike is assistant 
to the president of the American Security Council; 
lives at 510 Uiedale Rd., Riverside, III. 
DIXIE HIGHWAY AW.VRD — One of the hard-

guy bachelors who just may be cracking is BILL 
McL.\IX (ask him about /\spcn Annie!)- Bill took 
time off from campaigning for re-election as district 

attorney of IVarrcn, Ohio, to attend. He lives at 
3069 Foster Dr. in that fair city. Or at least that's 
what he tells the voters. 
GREEN HAT AWARD — Since JOHN TRA­

MONTINE spurned our kelly green class hat, we'll 
just give him this award. You could have taken it 
home for one of the nephews, "Tramps." 
BRIGHT EYES AWARD — Bumped into JOE KEARNEY outside Dillon Sunday morning, pecking into the sunlight to sec if he was still functioning. He was . . . barely! Joe, who lives at 2335 Afarcy, E\*anston, III., is vice-president of Northwestern Heating. 
NOSTALGIA AWARD — CHUCK COLLINS, who after hearing the stories of his friends from the Midwest, was seen to wipe a^^•ay a tear. A New Jersey attorney (watch out for that crew). Chuck now resides at 726 Embree Crescent, Westfield, N^.J. He has three children, three and under! 
ROYAL GARTER A\\'ARD — J. RUSSELL TOOHEY was enjoying his last week or so of bachelorhood like a true champion. Russ is in the construction business in Chicago. 
LANavSTER SMITH A^VARD — TOM C.-VREY, who did ever>*ll]ing over the weekend but grow a beard for the alumni president, took this one hands down. Tom, Mar\* Pat, and troops recently moved into a new house at 6540 N. Minnetonka (Hi, Ho Silver, Away), Chicago. He's an attorney. 
KODAK AWARD — MIKE KELLY left three cameras at home and still had about seven around his neck. He was so busy snapping pictures of the guys that I think he missed the class picture. He was lucky to be on hand since wife, Trudy, deliv­ered Brian just a week before. Mike, a sales rep. for Gustafson Oil, now has three bo>-5 and a gtrl. The Kcllys live at 6141 N. Karlov, Chicago. 
PROFESSIONAL STUDENT AWARD — That long-time sufferer, JIM BERGQUIST, stopped off on the way from Villano%'a (assistant professor of 
history) to N'orthweslem, where he will finish up 
work on his doctorate. 
CONGENIALITY AWARD — Our liquor store 

ot»-ner, ED JANSSEN, is a "natural" in this cate­
gory. Bucky has the St. Paul territory.' He has four 
children and lives at 1862 Bohland. 
LITURGY AWARD — ^Vs a part of the new lit­
urgy, MIKE O'TOOLE introduced shorts as part 

of the altar boy's rcgah'a Saturday morning. Noth­
ing shocks me any more. Mike, division sales man­
ager for John Hancock Insurance, has a boy and a 
girl, plus wife Mar>', back at 41 Gov. Belcher Lane, 
Milton, Mass. 
METRECAL AWARD — After losing 50 pounds, 

JOE MADIGAN was on top of the world until 
someone told him he looked fat. Joe is an account 
executive for Griswold-Eshleman Co. in Cleveland. 
He has two sons, lives at 2347 Loyola Rd., Univer­

sity Heights. 
Everyone can't be a winner, and there were a 

few gu^-s on hand who behaved themselves well 
enough to satisfy the N^ominating Committee, or 
misbehaved themselves so badly that nobody saw 
them. For brevity, I'll put the number of children 
after the name. Here we go. 
DICK .\LFES (1) is xvlth Oldsmobllc. He lives at 1718 Peggy PI., Lansing. JOHN AQU1LL..\. a smiling bachelor who earns his bread as an account executive for Pierre R- Smith & Co. (stockbroker), collects his bills at 5401 Cottonwood Dr., Lorain, Ohio. RON AUER (3) is a sales rep. for Bearse Mfg. Co. in Chicago (1512 S. Vine, Park Ridge), DICK BEEMAN^ (6) Is a paper-mill rep. in Chicago (546 Kc>-stone, River Forest). BOB BENSON (1) also is in sales, Barblzon in Dallas (1330 Winding Brook Lane). 
A children's buyer for J. L. Hudson In Detroit, TED BINT2 (3) got anay from h all during the reunion. Wife ^larllyn kept track of things at 29556 Lamar Lane, Livonia, Mich. BILL BIR­MINGHAM (3) who kept looking for someone to get him extra Army tickets, is a department chief with ^Vcstcm Electric (155 Statcsir Pi., Red Bank, N.J.). 
Speaking of football, the class cocktail party will be after the Southern California game, Oct. 23. 
DICK BOL/\ND (6), a St. Louis CPA (9241 Mackinaw Dr.), gave .\fART\* CULILVNE a run for his money. Marty, a vice-president of Rogers Park Savings & Loan here in Chicago, has seven boys, including two sets of twins. DON YECKEL, who was not In attendance, is rumored to have tletl Marty, and the gu>-s from the East say that AHKE "NEW YORK" WARD has 10. That I want to get straight from Mike. Let's hear from you. Old Man! It must be nice once a year — Father's Day! 
ED BORUS (1) is a senior financial analyst with Ford Motor Co. (1345 Henrictia, Birmingham, Mich.). JIM BOURNE (2) is a partner in Robin­son & Humphrey (Slanwich Lane, Greenwich, Conn.). JI.M BROUGHTOX, who welcomed his first daughter in March, received his master's in economics from Detroit University this June. In his spare time Jim works for GM. 
A design engineer with McMaster Products Corp,, PETE BRYANT has his pad at 6241 N. Winthrop, Chicago. JERRY BURNS (1) is an attorney in Saginaw, Mich. (4306 Kirk%vood). A leading ex­plorer over the weekend was BOB BURNS, a general insurance agent in Montpclier, Vt. (38 Scliool St.). One of the personality boys, MAURY 
GICCIARELLI (4), is a partner in Peoria Indus­
trial Piping Co. (5934 Roxbury Lane]. 
Looking prosperous now that he is out of govern­

ment work was attorney ^OB CAFFARELLI (2633 
Hawthorne, Flossmoor, HI.). JIM CAHILL (1) 
managed to look good In our little green hat. He's 
controller of ^Vhite Advertising Co. (444 Lake St., 
Crown Point, Ind.). A key man in FRANK 
LEAHY'S defensive backfield, GENE CARRABINE 
(2) looked fit. He's a salesman for John Hancock In­surance Co. (Stl Pierce St., Gary). Another '55er working on an adx-anced degree is FRANK CATALANO (5) assistant plant engineer for Brach candy (218 Albion, Park Ridge, 111.). 
Conspicuous by their absence were BILL REALE, RALPH GUGLIELMI. HARRY EDEL­STEIN, ED DARGIS, FR.\NK ^L\IER, BOB AR­RIX, WARREN YOUNGSTROM, MAUR Y REIDY, and BOB BROWN. 
JOHN CASEY (3), who was president of the ND Club of Rochester In '63, Is with Lincoln Roches­ter Trust Co. (345 Clover St.). Looking about like he did 10 years ago was EMMET CASSIDY, senior engineer for The Peoples Gas Light & Coke Co. in Chicago (8944 S. Bishop St.). The most relaxed man on campus was BILL CANNING (3), salesman for Lumlnall paint (1408 Cross Brook Dr., Webster Groves, Mo.). One of the manv architects who made It back was JOHN CLEME.NCY (1). John's with the Perkins & Will firm (1920 W. Hood Ave.). 
DICK CONDIT (4) Is a Detroit attorney (24739 Mulberry, Southficid, Mich.). My old jour­nalbm buddy, DICK CONNELLY (2), broke away from his duties with the Westinghouse Broadcast­ing Co. (13 Gold St., Green Brook, N.J.). DICK COOK (4), who helps ^^KE KELLY keep Orga­nization '55 clicking in Chicago, recently was made a big man In the advertising department of Con­tainer Corporation of America (127 Lincoln, Glen-view). 
JIM COSTELLO (2) is a terminal engineer for Moore McCormack Steamship in New York (41 Lombardi Drive). PAUL COUTLEE (2) is assistant manager of Million Market Newspapers (148 Mom-Ingslde Dr., San Anselmo, Calif.]. We're loaded with law\crs (no, all the lawyers weren't loaded!). For instance, DICK DON.^HUE (I) is a Hoosier lawyer who kept hts friends out of trouble (944 Rochelle Dr., Lafayette). Probably the guy most envied ^vas JOE DONOVAN who has a ranch (he calls it a farm) at Illlopolls, III. 
Treasurer of Downcv Oil Co. Is LARRY DOWNEY (I) (well, why not?). Wife Joan keeps the house at 29 Morris .Ave., Cold Spring. A member of our President's Club is J.ACK EVRARD (3), who heads his own insurance agencv (24th & Franklin, Tell City, Ind.). Big JACK FLYNN (5) does a little (as little as possible) industrial engi­neering for General Foods (2551 W. I09th PL, Chicago). DON FREUND (3) is a CPA wth Rus­sell Hughes & Co. (455 Brook, Crystal Lake, 111.). 
Senior technical specialist for U. S. Rubber Co. in New Haven Is JERRY FROEHLICH (4), who lives at 109 Bavard .Ave. 
DON G.\LL.AGHER (3) hangs hU MD shingle In southern Illinois (Box 538, Gran\^lle, 111.). Another "G," TOM GALL.-\GHER (3) is Erie regional manager for the Maytag Co. (870 W. 51st St.). Tlie banking fraternity was represented by DICK G.MJTHIER (5), vice-president of the Bank of Lansing (9027 Parrish, Highland, Ind.]. GEORGE 
ROME—Members of the Notre Dame Alumni Pilgrimage 1965 pause for dinner at ScogHo Di Frisio in Rome to celebrate their version of Universal ND Night. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 2965 57 
GIST (3) also is a bank VP — Houston National Bank (10011 Inwood Dr.). America's answer to Peter Snell, JACK GITS (6), told me tliat he has been working six days a week at the family plastics plant (919 Monroe, River Forest, 111.). 
The President's Club also includes MARTY GLEASON (2), who operates an equipment com­pany in Chicago and Joliet (600 Cornelia, JoHct). BOB GOSDICK (2) is a Rockford (HI.) attorney (918 Westchester). A fellou- CTA commuter here in the Wndy City is JERRY GRO.\RK (3), a bus>­attorney (4341 Bobolink Terr., Skokie). Ernst & Ernst has a top flight management scr^-ice super­visor in JOHN GROGAN (200 N. Alabama, Indian­apolis). DICK GROXER (1) owns a consulting engineering finn in Jefferson Cit>-, Mo. (421 Lark St.). 
JOE HAGGERTY (4) keeps hopping as Chicago district manager for Chevrolet (9924 S. Winclics­ter). Another Chicagoan is JOHN H.ARTIGAN (2), a partner in the law firm of Carroll, Connelly & Hartigan (9149 S. Bell Ave.). In the building ma­terials field Hc have HOWARD HART (2), a salesman for Cclotcx Corp. (1634 Linden, Des Plaincs, III.). LEO HAWK (4), who has served as president of the Northwestern Ohio alumni club, is the major domo of the Superior Metal Products Co. in Lima (625 \'ictor^-). TO.\f HAYES (4) pushes quite a bit of paper in Chicago and heads tlic Prep School Committee for the Chicago Club (34C N. Spring, La Grange). 
Also conspicuous bv their absence w-ere DON GELS, JERRY HUGHES, TOM WELLY, BILL QUIRK, PHIL STUMP, BOB KIRBY, SAM PALUMBO, RAY KENNEDY (who has chalked up several more cover stories for Time), DON SHANLEY, and XHKE AQUILINO. 
GERRY HILLSMAN (4) docs his accounting for the Otto Hillsman & Co. (9233 Austin, Morton Grove, 111.). NORM HIPSKIND (4) is a staff ac­countant for George S. Olive & Co. in Indianapolis (3548 E, 5l5t St.). Sterling Custom Homes lists BOB HOFFMASTER (2) as assistant sales man­ager (317 Shebo>-gan St., Fond du Lac, Wis.). LOU HUBER was one of many insurance undenvriters who never would Iiave touched our reunion group (9229 RD 2, Batavia, N.Y.). BOB HUNECK (3) broke away from his sales duties >nth National China & Equipment Corp. to run over for the fun (103 N. "F " St., Marion, Ind.). ED KELLY ("the other one") is a U. S. attorney in Indianapolis (40n N. >fcridian}. 
Although he hated to admit it after the Gemini flight, JOHN KENNEDY does a little selling for IBM (638 Andrew Rd., Springfield, Pa.). JIM KORTE (3) keeps the internal audit for Clirysler (1265 Beaconsficld, Grossc Pointc, ifich.). An­other member of the motor community is RON KUEBER (3), super\i5or of investment anaU-sis for Ford (23330 Hollander, Dearborn, Mich.). I told you that we had a lot of presidents — BOB KUNZE 
(3) owns the Middletown General TATC Co. (160 Princeton PL, Belford, N.J.). 
Among the more distinguished in the group was BILL LARKIN (5), chairman of the mathematics department at Xaxicr University in Cincinnati (4870 Oaklawn Dr.). Tliat smiling Norseman, CHRIS LARSEN, now a sales consultant for In­ternational Har\cstcr, kept things moring (730 Park Ave., Plainfield; N.J.). JOE LEGAN (2) left his architectural tools at Shepherd Associates In Milu-aukec (2163 N. 64th St.). BILL LEONARD 
(4) _ had reason to be up in the air. He*s a staff engineer for General Precision on the Apollo simu­lator project. 
Featured in a recent issue of the ALUMN'US was JOHN LOCHTEFELD (5), now a professor of art at Kutztower State College (Rt. 2, Alburtis, Pa.). FRANK LOLLI (3) took a break from his week­end warrior training to tell a few war stories. Frank recently changed jobs, now is an industrial broker for Hogan &, Farwell in Chicago (733 Svlvia­wood Ave., Park Ridge). BOB LUPE (5)' also benefits from a little bit of nepotism. He's vp and general superintendent of the Wade Lupc Con­struction Co. in Schenectady (875 Westholm Rd.). 
JOHN MANIX (1) labors as zone sales man­ager for Motorola in Louisville (1917 Rcdieaf Dr.). JOHN MARCHAL (2) is a partner in Marchal & Marchal (I think he's the second one!) at Green­ville, Ohio (131 South St.). Here we go again with another president in the person of NEAL MASON, who has a Chrv-slcr-Plj-mouth dealership in Farm­ington, Afich. (21917 Leyte). BILL MAY (6). that mokes him a contender in the big-family sweepstakes, is a sales rep. for RCA in Miami (7525 S. W. 54th Ct.). Another contender is TOM MEGLE N (6), who is administrator of the Brandy­wine Nursing & Convalescent Home (588 Ross, Waynesburg, Pa.). 
My next-door neighbor in Zahm, JOHN MIS­KEL (5), docs a little chemistry work for Rexall (105 Oak Ridge Rd., Ramsey, N.J.)- JI^^ MON­GELLO is a member of New York's prestigious security analysts dan, as a staffer with Dean Wit­ter & Co. (220 E. 54th St.). The name's the same 

— LOU MONTEIL is a buyer for L & A Mon­teil in Kansas City (809 N. Montgall). 
Western Electric has BOB MOORE (6) — an­other Culhane challenger — solving materials engineering problems (5953 Dublin Rd., Bethel Park, Pa.). DICK MUELLER (1) is assistant sales manager for Container Corp. in Chicago (888 Chcrrjv Wnnctka). BOB McCARREN (3) does his auditing for GM (1254 Buckingham, Grosse Pointe Park, Mich.). BERNIE McCLOREY (3) made the switcli from engineering to law. He's also on the board of Checker Cab in Detroit (34919 Wood Dr., Livonia, Mich.). Another June grad was GREG McCORMACK (2), who received an MBA from Xarier. He's division manager for ^Vestem & Southern Life (3946 Sharon View, Sharonville, Ohio). DICK McCORMIGK (1) who served a term as president of the ND Club oi Erie, is a partner in the Joseph McCormick Construction Co. (4425 Cherry St.). TOM McCOY (1) b a partner, too, in the M fi: O Chevrolet Co. While on the subject of partners, JOE McGLYNN (2) has a share of the McGI^Tin & Hartigan law firm in St. Louis (7319 Chamberhin). 
BOB NAVARRE (3) is assistant sales manager for Simpson Mfg. Co. (165 Budlong, Hillsdale, Mich.). JIM NIEDERRITER (3), a very active Jaycce, serves as sales manager of the Bard Distributing Co. (722 Lyndcn Ave., Ashtabula, Ohio). He'd like to hear from DICK GLENNON. The man in the gray flannel suit, TIM NORTON (4100 Marine Or.), Is an account executive with Leo Burnett in Chicago. ED PREIN (1) is an associate with Wil­liams & Works in Grand Rapids (4991 Bluff Dr., N.E.). Here's the man to know in Eric, JOHN PAL^^S.^NO, who calls the shots at the restaurant of the same name (3950 Chcrr>-St.). 
RIVERS PATOUT is a seminarian at St. Mary's in Houston. ED PETRUSKA (4) is a guidance director for the Fcnton (Miclt.) public schools (705 Briarwood). One of the real movers during the Weekend was JOHN PINTER (3), field engi­neer for Lord Mfg. Co. (2432 Noves St., Evanston, III.). DON PIZUTELLO (2) is an engineer (1133 Midland Ave., Bronxvillc, N.Y.). Joining Ed in the teaching profession is RAY POKROP (4) in Mil­waukee (2041 S. 17th). TIM RAUH (3) represents the Dubois Chemical Co. (18901 Audctte St., Dear­bom, Midi.). 
STEVE REBORA (4) alwa>-s wanted to be a manager and hc is . . . Philbin Carpet Service in Chicago (6326 N. Kcdcr). FRANK REIDY (3) is assistant comptroller for St. Joseph Lead Co. (26 Lion Lane, Westbur^*, N.Y.). NORB REINER is an insurance examiner for GEICO (1806 Key Blvd., Arlington, Va.j. A vice-president's sign sits on PETE RITTEN's (4) desk at Louis N. Ritten & Co. in Minneapolis (5206 Hampshire Drive). BOB RUSSELL (1) represents McDonnell & Co. in the Detroit area (1175 Bishop Rd., Grosse Pointe, Mich.). JIM SCHENKEL (5) is a Fort Wa>-nc architect (1815 E. State). Bob may be calling on TO.M SCHREITMUELLER (1), a cost coordinator for Pontiac (2739 Berry Dr., Bloomfield Hills. Mich.). GEORGE SEIKEL (2) is involved in some interesting work as head of the plasma-flow section of N,-\SA's Lewis Research Center (20585 Beach-wood Dr., Rocky River, Ohio). DICK SHAY is assistant cashier of the Union Bank, Diamond Bar, Calif. (21327 Fountain Springs Rd.). Another of my journalism classmates, PAT SHEEHAN (2). is selling cars like mad for Hollingshead Oldsmobile in Chicago (2257 W. 103rd Su). JOHN SHEP­HERD (5) is an architect in the Milwaukee area (5W N. ^i h St., Wauwaiosa). JI.M SIEGER (1), who has picked up many avvards for his film scripts, recently accepted a writer-producer post with CBS­TV in Chicago (1726 N. LaSalle). 
JOE SMITH (3) is a senior nuclear engineer for Allis-Chalmers (6827 Trexler Ct., Lanhawn, Md.). You've heard about the big butter-and-cgg men. Well, OWEN SODETZ (2), one of the better second basemen, is assistant treasurer of Murphy Butter & Egg Co. (18637 Gottschalk Ave., Home-wood, 111.). An Air Force careerman, BILL STAHL 
(3), now is stationed at MacDill AFB in Tampa. ED STENGER (6) is vice-president of T. D. Shcad Mfg. (2632 Kopson Ct., Bloomfidd Hills, Midi.). JIM STEVENS is a real estate and in­surance salesman in Detroit (17400 Huntington). MACK STEWART (3) is assistant general manager for Evansvillc Printing Corp. (8006 Larch Lane, EvansviUe, Ind.). BILL STOUTERBURGH (1) has a partnership in Brinton & Co. at I Wall St. in New York (39 Wcstcrview Rd., Short Hills, N.J.). 
JIM STUCKO (2) is a Chicago attorney (6925 W. Gunnison). 
JIM SULLIVAN (4) is practidng law in Terre Haute (539 Monterey). GEORGE SUNKEL (2) spends his days at the First National Bank of Chi­cago; nights at 500 Hawthorn Lane, Winnetka. PETE SUTHERLAND (4) welcomed a son just a few days before the reunion. Pete's uith the Electric Boat Division at Groton, Conn. (51 Woodland Rd., East Greenwich, R.I.). My old buddy, BILL TICE 
(3) has been transferred soutli of the Mason-Dbcon line. Bill's a project engineer with Mead Packag­ing in Atlanta (231 Hillswick Ct.). 
DON TOTTEN manages the Morton Mfg. Co. plant west of Chicago (193 Woodlawn, Rosclle, HI.). BERNEY TRACEY (1) is another IBM salesman (90 8th Ave., Brooklyn). JOE TURK (3) manages the clothing department of Turk's Eagle Store in Joliet (2217 West Acres). GEORGE VAN BESIEN 
(3) practices his architecture in the Washington area (3346 Sheffield Ct., Falls Church, Va.). JIM VACHRIS (4) is an engineer with Franklin Fibrc-Lamiter Corp. (14 Wellington Rd., Wilmington, Del.). BOB VOYT (5) combines his engineering with sales work for i^crican Coil Spring (2548 Grenside Blvd., Muskegon, Midi.). BOB "MOOSE" WING (2) handles the IBM payroll in Chicago (7315 N. Damen). 
Among those vvho didn't stop long enough to give me any dope were BOB HUTCHINSON, IRV CARRIG, BOB McAULIFFE and a few others. So, honorable wives, if you don't find hubby mentioned, don't automatically think he ducked out for the weekend. 
ED TOOMEY arrived a bit late with his new-bride, Janet. Ed is dncf resident in internal medi­cine at I^hey Clinic in Boston after graduating from Gcorgetou'n School of ifcdidne. Janet, a member of the faculty at Simmons College in Bos­ton, is a candidate for a Ph.D. at Brown Univer­sity. 
DAVE MET Z sent a special ddivery to me on campus with his regrets. He's knee deep in work for Kodak and is promoting a scries of sports events in the Rochester area in his spare time. 
Also heard from FATHER JOE O'DONNELL, who v\'as spending the reunion weekend on active duty v%ith the Navy at Newport. He was slated to give the Big Retreat for 1300 on campus the week­end of Aug. 19-22. 
TOM DORWIN, my old roomie, couldn't make it in from Austin. He v^'as too busy buying a house. Congratulations to DON LANSPA, who was elected a dty coundlman in Raytown, just outside Kansas City. Dan and Barbara have a boy and a girl. 
BROTHER VINCENT P. >nLL CSC BS '55, died April 14. Our condolences to his family. Father O'Donnell celebrated a memorial Mass on June 5. 
The Notre Dame Club of Phoenix honored JOHN McSHANE as its "Man of the Year." John is an electrical engineer for GE. 
Sec >TJu at the Southern Cal game! 

From the Alumni OfHcc: In the May, 1965, edition of Jubilee magazine Bishop JOHN J. WRIGHT LLD '55, of Pittsburgh is depicted in a sketch addressing the Pan-African Union during tlie last session of Vatican II Coun­
cil. A member of the theological commission that prepared the sdicma, De Ecclesia, Bishop \Vright v^-as a strong advocate of the laity's position in the Church. 
NORMAN "SKIP'* GASSENSMITH has been named program director of WSBT and WSBT­TV, radio and tdcvision stations in South Bend ov^Ticd by The South Bend Tribune. Skip v\'as pro­motion manager for the stations before the promotion. 
DR. LEON E. ST. PIERRE, manager of the polymer and interface studies section. General Electric Research Laboratory, Schenectady, N.Y., has been named the first professor of polymer chemistry at McGill U. at the opening of the new department. 
JOHN T. HARTIGAN, a member of the Chi­cago law firm of Brown & Carroll, has become a partner in the firm, renamed Carroll, Connelly & Hartigan. 
PHELAN THOMPSON has been promoted to manager of Africa-Latin America-Australasia for Omark International, Ltd. He will have direct sales responsibility for Africa, Central and South America, Australia and New Zealand. His head­quarters vrill be in Portland, Ore. 
ROBERT J. ARRIX has been named director of merchandising for Tek Hughes, division of Johnson & Johnson. 
JAlkfES F. WALSH, acting director of the Chris­tian Center of the Community in South Bend, has received a $170,000 grant from the Office of Eco­
58 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September-October, 1965 
nomic Opportunity to aid Spanish-speaking Amer­icans engaged in farm work in the South Bend area. The center operates four programs for the migrant workers: opportunity center, remedial program, adult education and ad\'ancement of capabilities. 
LEE CREAN JR. is executive director of the South Bend Small Business Development Center operating under the War on Poverty Program of St. Joseph's County (South Bend) and the Eco­nomic Opportunity Act of 1964. The center pro­vides assistance for persons with low incomes to either start small businesses or keep them in op­eration. 
JOHN STANLEY O'BRIEN M.D. has announced the opening of his office for the practice of ps>xhi­atr>- in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Alvin D. Vitt 
'56 
4 Wind Rush Greek W. St Louis, Mo. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

FRANK CATALANO, JAMES COSTELLO, JOSEPH DONOVAN, MICHAEL HEGARTY, DONALD PIZZUTELLO, RICHARD SHAY. 
From the Alumni Office; DAVID C. DOYLE JR. has been named cor­porate controller of Great Lakes Express, a Mid­western trucking concern. DR. JOHN C. MEAGHER, assistant professor of English at the University, has been awarded a post-doctoral grant for study of the New Testa­ment and early Christianity at the Institut Catho­lique, Paris, France. The grant was made by the Society for Religion and Higher Education, New Haven, Conn. 
REV. JOSEPH J. SIKORA SJ celebrated his first solemn high Mass recently in Chicago after his ordination. He b completing his theological stud­ies at Bcllarmine School of Theology, Loyola Uni­versity of Chicago. 
C.-\RL C. AUSTIN, an agent in the South Bend district of the Prudential Insurance Co., %vas re­cently promoted to the position of staff manager. 
DR. JOSEPH A. MARTELLARO, assistant pro­fessor of economics at the University, re­ceived a Fulbnght grant to lecture at the U. of Cordoba in Argentina this summer. His lectures dealt with the economy of underdeveloped nations and were given in Spanish. 
MICHAEL P. MALL.\RDI was recently named treasurer of the Straus Broadcasting Group with more than 130 subscribing stations. 
THOMAS J. SHEEHAN received his doctor of philosophy degree from Ohio State U. in commence­ment exercises this quarter. 
'C7 Jo^ ^- McMecl 3 / 30 E. 42nd St New York, N.Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANT ROBERT RONEY. 

JACK KING and his pretty wife Pat arc linng it up as parents of two, and a dog. So far the count is even with one boy and one girl. They arc living outside Gary with the Dunes as a back­drop. The *'Cobra" has really taken to family life and even docs his own carpentry. ^Ve are all looking for%vard to discussing this matter come the Notre Damc-USC weekend. 
A few comments must be heard — 'While run­ning for an Eastern Airlines flight I heard a voice call my name only to find our good friend TOM BRENNAN as the originator. Tom is a pilot for Eastern and based in Washington. He is still batch­ing it but a little honey dou-n Fort Lauderdale way is swiftly closing the gap and his days are num­bered. Tom will definitely be among the stalwarts come our big weekend in October. 
GEORGE GROBLE, by far the most coopera­tive vice-president this Class ever had, has come through once more with some information regarding the Chicago crowd. George writes that BOB O'NEIL is completing a six-month stay in Tliailand. Bob is employing his engineering skills in aiding in the design of highwa>*s for the TTiaJIand gov­ernment. Bob and Barbara are expecting their fourth. 
JIM DRISCOLL has left the Chicago area to Join the sales force of Commercial Shearing & Stamping of Youngstown, Ohio. GUS SCIACQUA 
FR. RICHARD J. HOGAN '57 

Richard J. Hogan '57 has been ordained to the priesthood by the Most Rev. Martin 
D. McNamara DD in the Cathedral of St. Raymond, Joliet, III. after studies at St. Procopius Seminary, Lisle, III. 
By special permission Fr. Hogan's first Solemn Mass was a concelebration with his three brothers who are also priests: Rev. William E. Hogan, assistant pastor, St. Martin of Tours, Chicago; Rev. Benedict 
E. Hogan, Mt. Carmel High School, Chi­cago; and Rev. Wendell T. Hogan, Mt. Carmel High School, Houston, Tex. 
A native Chicagoan, Fr. Hogan attended St. Kilian Grade School, Mt. Carmel High School and gained a bachelor's degree in English literature at ND. He then studied philosophy at Mt. Carmel College, Niagara Falls, Ont., Canada. 
From 1957 to 1961 he worked for J. E. Mcrrion and Co., communit>' developers. He \vzs president of the St. Margaret of Scot­land "Over 23" Club in 1958; president of the St. Margaret of Scotland section. Young Christian Workers, 1959; and president. Southwest region. Young Christian Workers, 1960-61. 
Fr. Hogan is the son of Mrs. Edward D. Hogan of Chicago. 
has purchased a new home in Arlington Heights where he joins the company of JIM FIN­NEGAN. Speaking of Jim, it's best that he goes on a field trip soon — they arc expecting number five. TOM HUGUELETT is still keeping the IBM stock strong. George comments that also present at the Universal Notre Dame Night was JIM CHESTNUT of engineering fame, DR. JL\I KEN­NEDY who is specializing in surgery at Cook County Hospital and DR. JIM CUSACK. 
Lands alive, BOB COYNE has dropped from the ranks and is set to wed in June (as of this writ­ing) . Our condolences, Bob . . . there's the perennial bachelor, PAT SHEERIN . . . JIM CUL­LINAN who is the sales manager for American Tobacco. Also included were JACK REISTOFFER, ED QUINN, BILL RIGALI, JACK MOYN.\HAN, NORRIS BISHTON, BILL NLVDDUX, FIUNK 
Notre Dame 

HENNESSEY, TOM O'BRYAN. JOE PARNICHA and JACK KUBIAK. 
Flash . . . Flash . . . BOB COYNE reports that a friend of his saw PAT WILUAMSON. That U all we have to report at this time. 
RICH.ARD HOGAN was ordained for the Joliet Diocese on May 22. He was joined in the celdra­tion of his first Mass by his three brothers who are also in the priesthood. Our congratulations and our thanks to Fr. Hogan for attaining this, the most successful ''occupation" one could ever pursue. 
GARY GATES is li\-ing in New York and work­ing with United Press International. Gary a still single and it looks like he aims to stay that way for a while. 
Only received responses to our proposed charter flight from three persons, those being Gary, PAUL FLATTERY from over Staien Island way and JIM HERRING who does his business from the grandeur of the Pan Am Building. Because of the negative response the flight has been cancelled. JOE REICH spent a weekend at our little nest in Manhattan. Joe, PLEASE come back, the plumb­ing is now working and wc promise to feed you. 
Heard from Pat and T. O. DOYLE and they definitely will be in South Bend the big weekend . . . hope DIXIE ^vill join them. Word has it that Lourdenc and TOM HALEY may make the scene. Will keep our fingers crossed and hope that all the Portland crowd will heed their good ex­ample. 
Our condolences and prayers on the deaths of Mr. John Byrne, father of our classmate, JIM . . . And for William Murphy, father of good friend and cohort, ED. Please remember them in your prayers. 
From the .Alumni OfKcc: THOMAS J. H.MVEKOTTE of Chicago has been appointed acting state securities commissioner by Illinois Secretary of State Paul Powell. 
LENf JOYNER held a two-man exhibit (with Rev. Henry Mascotte) recently at St. Mary's Col­lege art galleries. Lem exhibited liturgical items and enamels. 
REV. JOSEPH B. SIMONS CSC has been ap­pointed dean of students aC the University, suc­ceeding REV. A. LEON.ARD COLLINS '38 who has received a new assignment in New Orleans, La. Fr. Simons is a specialist in the field of educational psychology'. 
Prof. O. TIMOTHY O'MEARA has been ap­pointed head of the University's mathematics department succeeding Prof. THOMAS E. STEW­ART *57, recently named associate vice-president for academic affairs. 
R^VYMOND M. BRENNAN of Brooklyn recently joined the law department of The Port of Nc^v York Authority and has been assigned to the con­struction contracts division. 
RICHARD MORRISON has been promoted from staff member to administrative assistant in the de­partment of pupil personnel of the South Bend school s>-stcm for the coming year. The department deals with disciplinary and related- student problems. 
RAYMOND F. ROTH JR. has received his mas­ter of business administration from Washington U. in St. Louis at spring commencement. 
DAVID P. NOO.V has been awarded a bachelor of laws degree from the Georgetown U. Law Cen­ter in spring commencement ceremonies. 
JIM MORSE has joined GEORGE CONNOR '48, in commenting on the action in pre-season foot­ball games of the Chicago Bears professional football team on \VBBM-TV in Chicago. Mone was captain of the 1937 team and played Canadian professional football. He and his wife reside with their sw chil­dren in Muskegon, Mich. 
LUKE P. C.-\RR.ABINE has been appointed to the newly created position of assistant superinten­dent, electric weld department in the cold process­ing division at U. S. SteePs Garv (Ind.) Tube Works. 
ROBERT E. DUFFY has been au-arded a bach­elor of laws degree from the Georgetown U. Law Center, Washington, D.C. 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 
'58 
1709 Indiana Ave. La Porte, Ind. 46330 

It is with regret that we begin this column with news of the death of two classmates. Although we have no details, we ha\*e learned from the Alumni Office that MARCO V. ASTURIAS and his son of Guatemalo, Guatemala, were killed on March 29; and COiVRAD HUBNER passed away on April 5. 
Alumnus, September-October, 1965 59 
We extend our s>Tnpathy to bolli families, together 
with our prayers. Our sjinpathy also to ALFRED 
WEINSHEIMER, on the death of his father on 
March 30. May they rest in peace. 
Ne*^ of a happier note comes from Dr. S.'\M NIGRO, whose v-ife. Sue, presented him with a daughter on April 13. Sam recently completed his tour of duty as a medical ofEccr witli the Na*y at Groton, Conn., and is currently scnnng a ps>'chi­atric residcnc>- at tlie University Hospitals of Cleveland (Western Reserve). His address: 2167 Westminster Road, Cle\-eland Heights, Ohio. 
Rev. JOHX JfcCARTHl' OP was ordained on June 5 in the chapel of St. Rose Prior>% Dubuque, Iowa, and ofTercd his first solemn Mass at St. Philip Neri Chtu^ch in Chicago on June 6. Father John W3S assisted at his first ^^ass by Rev. JOHN SMYTH '57, a teammate on the 1956-57 Irish bas­ketball team. 
JERRY ^VELLS dropped us a line in whicli he included tlie follouing items of interest. RON AL­LEY is working in Wliitc Plains, N.V., for General Foods. JIM MacLAUGHLIN and his family arc now livins in Jersey City ^vhere Jim is managing a new funeral home. JIM WALDROX is also in New Jersey, ha\ing completed a tour with the Na\->-. As for JERRY ^VELLS, he is a sales repre­sentative for Continental Can in New England. His address is 551 Worcester Road, Framingliam Center, Mass. 
STEVE DRAGOS moved to the New York area ti»*o years ago, and has now taken a position as assistant director of the Valley Development Foun­dation in Binghamton, N.Y., *vhcre he u-ill be in­volved in community improvement and redevelop­ment programs. Tlie Dragos family now includes two cliildrcn, Pami (2) and Steve Jr. (bom last April). 

CHARLEY SHANE sent us a postcard from Washington in ^fay, informing us that he is with the law firm of Pcnnic, Edmonds, Morton, Taylor & Adams in ^Vashington. He graduated from Georgetown Law Center in 1962 and has been in practice for two years now. 
JOHN BERNARD was wed last November 14, to the former Sharon Jacks of Warren, Mich. They are residing at 20535 Vernier Road, Apt. 3, Harp­er Woods, Midi. 48236. After graduation John acquired an MB.\ from the U. of Michigan and u*as accredited as a CPA. He is now an auditor for Shcller Manufacturing Corp. 
TTiat's it for now. Don't forget our fall reunion 

— October 2 in the Morris Inn*s Mahogany Room after the N.D.-Northwestem game. 
From tlic Alumm Office: MARTIN J. ALLEN JR. has been promoted to product manager, plastics specialty products, at Baxter Laboratories, Inc., Morton Grove, 111. CHARLES E. McGILL received a master*s de­
gree in business administration at Western Reserve U., Cleveland, Ohio, at their June commencement. DAN O'BRIEN is now associated with Bache & 
Co., Inc., of South Bend (brokerage house) as a registered representative. EUGENE P. 0*NEIL has Informed the Alumni Office. that as of July 3 there Is a Mrs. — the former Miss Maureen C. Twomey. 
THOMAS H. O'BRIEN has been elected assist­ant cashier In the commercial banking dlWsion, Pittsburgh National Bank. 
CAPT. ALGIS K. RIMKUS received the U.S. Air Force Air Medal recently for "meritorious achievement during militar>* flights," 
JAY J. RYAN has been named assistant project coordinator for the Nestle Co., Inc. He will assist In coordinating marketing, finandal and manufac~ taring aspects of new products. 
WILLIAM P. CARLEY has been awarded a bachelor of lavw degree from the Georgetown U, Law Center, Washington, D.C. 
JAMES A. DANIELS has been appointed man­ager, electronics and instrument sales, Burton Man­ufacturing Co., Pasadena, Calif. 
EDMOND BURKE HI has been a^rarded a mas­ter of arts degree in Oriental studies at Princeton 

U. fuimmencement exercises. 
ROBERT A. COLAIZZI JR. has joined the staff of Airtemp division, Chr>'sler Corp., Dayton, Ohio, as public relations manager. 
FRANK HANLEY has been named a member of the National Joint Board for Jurisdictional Dis­putes by the AFL-CIO Building and Construction Trades Department. Frank Is assistant to the pres­ident of the Operating Engineers International Union. 
JOHN MCCARTHY , co-captaln of the 1957-58 ND basketball squad, became a Dominican priest during the past summer. 
€0 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 
'C O Joseph^ P. Mulligan 3624 Fiesta Way MiddlctowTi, Ohio 45042 
REUNION REGISTR.\N*TS 
W. H. BROMANN, ^^CHAEL HENDERSON. 

I hope this column makes the deadline as I ain a couple of weeks late with the copy, and am thank­ful for an understanding editor. I have a couple of reasons for my tardiness, the first of which is par­tially explained by my address above. I Iiave discon­tinued my studies for the priesthood as this does not seem to be the vocation wliich God has given mc. Right now I am "between jobs" and will let you kno%v what happens in the "next exciting episode" of tlic ALUSLVUS. My other reason for ivaittng to do the column'was a recent trip to NYC and ^Vash­ington where I hoped to pick up a few items to incorporate Into this Issue. 
In NYC I spent a couple of da>-s with DAN FERRONE and Iiis lovely wife Jane. Tliey arc ex­pecting their first child In August, and Dan may have some news next issue about a new TV show. I spoke witli JIM HUTTLEME^'ER on the phone but wc were unsuccessful In getting together (my fault) so Jim ^vill have to relav class neu*s by mail. I also talked to F.ATHER JIM VAUGHEY by phone as his first assignment took him to St. Catherine Laboure Churdi, at Lake Katrine, N.Y. (a two-hour drive from the city). Jim says that thu is only a tcmporar>' assignment, as he is also to organize a summer camp for bov-s and girls. Tried to call LOU KIGIN at Haskins & Sells but Lou was out on an account. He still lives at 311 E. 75th St. (Apt. 3.C) N.Y. 21, N.Y. 
In \Vashington I was able to meet JOHN HAY­^VARD for lunch and in bct^vcen our discussion of Ohio politics, John mentioned PETE SALSICH who will soon take up a position with tlic Jttstice Dept., MARK SHIELDS whom John sees regu­larly, MIKE PHEN.NER (with the Adjutant Gen­eral and a social aide at the Wliitc House), and many others. I have John's promise that he will soon sit down and send us a ^'President's report** on our classmates in D.C. and those who look up John and Mary Beth when they pass through the city. " 
Other news which I have collected, and for which I am most grateful is the following: BOB H/\SSENGER wrote from Chicaso where he received a Ph.D. from the U. of Chicago on June 
II. He was In an interdepartmental program called the Committee on Human Development, whidi crosscuts sodolog\-, psydiolog>', anthropology and education. Bob will become an asst. professor of sociologj- at Notre Dame in September. He had been teadiing at Mundelein College the past three years. Bob's wife has a MA in history from Northwestern and they recently adopted a daughter, Ralssa, who is now five months old. 
DICK KATIS writes from St. Louis where he has lived since June, 1962. He married Mar>- Stuart (Mar>-\ille College) in December, 1962, and they had Uieir first baby, a girl, Susie Mae, in August, 1963. Dick is a chemical engineer for McDonnell Aircraft, and he and Mar>* bought a home In Uni­versity City, Mo., last Christmas (7467 Kingsbury Blvd., St. Louis, Mo. 63130). 
JACK THOXIAS has asked me to convcj* his thanks to all in the class who asked for God's help for the rccovcrv' of his infant daughter, Julia Ann. She is doing vcr>* nicely now. Her condition u*a5 touch and go until she was two montlts old when Jack and Pat were allowed to bring her home from tlic hospital. Jack will finish his work for his MBA at Michigan in .\ugust, and has accepted a position with Prudential Insurance. He will be with tlie Commercial and Industrial Loan Dept. in New­ark, N.J., for a year and then to one of the regional offices. Jack saw DAN CULLEN in San Francisco recently and reports that Dan is doing ver>* well. Other good news from Jack is that TOM CARROLL, was mentioned in Forbes as being an up-and-coming vp at Lever Bros. 
From 302 Farmingion Dr., Camillus, N.Y., comes word from FRANK CAHILL. He was mar­ried a few weeks after graduation to his eight-year girl, ^farda. They have two duldren, Michael and Suzanne, and were expecting again in June. Frank is employed by Roadway Express, Inc. After serving as sales mgr. in Syracuse, he was recently named asst. mgr. of sales and operations for Road­way's upstate New York operations. Indications are that Frank will be transferred to the Midwest in the near future. 
The New Jersey report comes from "T.J.** MAHONEY (known in the business world as TIMOTHY J. MAHONEY, JR.). PAUL "BUCKY" O'CONNOR is currently completing his fourth 
2965 

year of Medical Sdiool at the U. of Bologna in Italy. He was home in West Orange, N.J., In the middle of July in time to be an usher in "T.J.'s" wedding. Bucky has one more year of study o%'er there, and his lovely wife Beth and two-year-old daughter Karen are with him in their "Italian villa." JOHN HART is a practicing attorney In Montclalr, N.J. John was married in January of this year to Nancy Buckley and they arc expecting a baby in December. KEVIN HALLIGAN recently re­ceived a tremendous promotion and is now an area sales mgr. for Lever Bros. Kevin, his wife Kathy and tliclr two children have just purchased a home in SouUi Orange, N.J. ROGER BRESLIN is also a practldng attorney in New Jersey and is doing quite well for himself. "T.J." saj-s Rog b li\ing in NYC and can be found either on the basketball courts in the evening or the golf links on week­ends. ED TREACY is the father of two, and is doing extremely well with IBM. MARK KESS­NICH is living in Long Island and commuting to AVall St. where he is putting his grad-school degree to good use [or the 1st National City Bank of New York. PAUL "THE GRUBS" GRUBER is married and living in Hawthorne, N.J. He is with I.T,&T. 
"T.J.'s" wedding date was August 14, 1965. His bride \\'as Margaret Ward of South Orange, N.J. Margaret was just graduated *'cum laudc" from St. Elizabeth's College, N.J,, and was enrolled In Kappa Gamma Pi, the national honor society. The wedding was pretty much an ND wedding party with BUCKY O'CONNOR, JOHN HART, DON­NT WALSH '60, and BILL CROSBY '61, as the ushen. 'T.J. " is an insurance broker in NYC with the firm of Dcspard & Co., Inc. He bought a home in Chatham, N.J., and will be living on 118 North Hillside Ave, Congratulations, T7m, and many thanks for the info. 
Still on the Eastern seaboard comes word from Lewlston, Mc., and JOHN BELIVEAU, our cor­respondent there. John and Mar>- arc the parents of a girl, Julia Mary, bom April 4, 1965. John passed the ^fainc and Washington, D.C, bar exams in 1964 and became a partner this year In the law firm of ^farshall, Raymond & Bdlveau, with offices at 95 Park St., Lcwislon. John was the legal counsel for the Clay-LIston fight, so you might read more of John in your daily papers. John has also been appointed to the five-man City Planning Board for a five-year term. He also was appointed a complaint justice by the Governor In January, a four-year appointment. 
JOHN A. FOCHTMAN's father writes from Pctoskcy, Mich., that John is now a doctor of medicine and is in the naval hospital at Saigon, South Vict Nam. Mr. Fodiiman was kind enough to enclose John's address, \vlilch I will pass on to you. Lt. M-C John Fochtman, HSAS CODE No. 40, APO 96243, San Francisco, Calif. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. BORLIK of Allen­town, N.J., report the birth of a son, Craig' Hunter, on February 18. 
A note in tlie Religious Bulletin of February 12, 1965, relay's word of the death of the father of JIM BAZAN'Y. 
On June 7, 1965, TERRENCE Af. MOLON\'' received his J.D. (Juris doctor) degree from the School of Law, Washington U., St. Louis, Afo. Terry, his wife Patricia and their t%vo daughters have returned to Los Angeles where they are li\ing at 900 Longwood Avenue, Los Angeles 19, Calif. 
JOHN FINN (12345 Inwood Rd., Dallas, Tex.) sends a card telling us that after six years of high-school teaching (history and government) he has decided to pursue the Ph.D. in political science be­ginning this fall. He and Sherr>- have four children —• three bo>*s and a girl, ages 4, 3, 2 and 1. John recently saw TOM MARQUEZ, who is doing com­puter work in Dallas, and JIM JUST, who is also in Dallas doing sodal work. 
In April, CLARENCE HUTCHES was admitted to practice before the bar of the Interstate Com­merce Commission. Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is Clar­ence's home. 
JAKE RAGUSA finally broke down and wrote. On June 14, 1959, Jake married Dolores Chcnevert. For 20 months he was employed by Western Union Telegraph Co. After leaving them, he returned to Baton Rouge, La., his home town, and entered the field of public accounting. On August I, I96t, Dolores* birthday, he was notified that he had be­come a CPA. Jake is now a partner in the firm, 
A. Edgar Thomas and Company, CPA's. "Other things have happened also: Jake T. IH (Tommy), Danny Paul, Son)*a Michele, Jeffery John and' Steven Scott." Jake also tells us that DOUG GONZ.ALES is an attorney In Baton Rouge and Is still single. JOE SCHUDT Is married and he and his wife Jean are living in Park Forest, III. where Joe is a licensed civil engineer. And BASIL 
BECK is an attorney Jn New Jersey, roamed and 
a proud papa. 
And finally, a few random notes: 
DICK RYAN of Cleveland, Ohio (two sons, 

one daughter)—Internal consultant with Cleveland 
Pneumatic Tool — MBA '6i, Harvard Business 
School. 
DAVE BARRETT of ^Vashington, D.C.—grad­uated from Georgetown Law Sdiool in June. JOE LUND of Minneapolis, Minn, (three sons) —working for an insurance firm. JIM DONOVAN of Notre Dame, Ind. (two daughters)—working for a Ph.D. in metallurgy. 
PETE JANDRISEVITS of Schenectady, N.Y. (one son, one daughter)—mechanical engineer with General Electric. 
HANK GRAY and DAN MtJTH—both work­ing for their Ph.D.'s at ND. 
VINCE NAIMOLI of WyckofT, N.J. (two daughters) asst. division mgr. of manufacturing. Continental Can Co.—MSME *52, Newark College of Engineering—^MBA '64, Fairlcigh Dickinson Uni­versity. 
Again, many thanks to the contributors to the column for this issue. There arc many guys whom neither DENNY NEAD, while he was Class Scc­retar>% nor I have beard from in the sLx years since graduation. Here's hoping you'll take the time to drop a line or two. 
From the Alumni Office: 

CAPT. ROBERT H. ROBBEN JR. has been awarded the Air Force pilot wings upon graduation from flight training school, Reese Air Force Base, Tt-c He has been assigned to TraWs Air Force Base, Calif., for work with the Military Air Trans­port Service. 
DAVID R. COSTELLO has received a master of arts degree from the U. of Virginia in spring com­mencement exercises. 
GENE DUFFY, former ND basketball and base­ball star, is a member of the staff at the AMiitc Sox Boys' Camp, Fond du Lac, Wis. 
A thing you'd only see since Vatican II: REV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN, research professor of theology at the University, recently spoke before the Illinois Council of Deliberation, a state-wide meeting of 33rd degree Masons. Fr. O'Brien presented the state head of the Masons with a pair of cuff links bear­ing the ND monogram. 
LEON F. KEVSER has received his doctorate in chcmistr>- from the California Institute of Technol­ogy at Pasadena, Calif. 
Three *59cis Iiave received graduate degrees from De Paul U.. Chicago. They arc RICHARD M. BUHRFIEND, bachelor of lau-s; WAYNE A. FAIST, master of business administration; and THOMAS 
K. McBRIDE, juris doctor. 
CAPT. ANDREW G. WYRICK JR. has received an MS degree in management from Rensselaer Poly­technic Institute, Troy, N.Y,, under an Air Force program of assistance toward degrees at civilian institutions. 
PATRICK W. WALSH has been promoted to the 
CLASS OF 1960 

post of Alidwcstem marketing manager for indus­trial sales, Scott Paper Co.'s foam di\-ision. 
John F. Gclcr 
'60 1(M5 linden Ave. 
Wilmctte, lU. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

THOMAS ADAMSON, JOSEPH ALBRIGHT, JAMES ALLAN, PHILIP ALLEN, STEPHEN BARRY, ANDREW BARTON, ROBERT BEN­NETT, ROBERT BERANEK, NORJWN BER­GESON, WILLIAM BOWMAN, ROBERT BR,\N­NON, THOMAS BRINKWORTH, C. D. BROECKER, ROBERT BURTON, EDWARD BUTLER, JOHN a\LLAHAN, WILLIAM CASH­MAN, JOHN CIIL\K, DONALD CL/VRK, PHILIP COLLINS, DONALD F. CONDIT, RICHARD CORBETT, EDW/\RD CORNELIA, ROBERT CORSON, F. PATRICK CREADON, JAMES CRONIN, JAMES CROSSIN, DONALD CUR­LOVIC, G. MICHAEL DALZELL, JOSEPH DAY, PIERCE DcGROSS, FRED DEUTSCH, DON­ALD DIMBERIO, MICHAEL DIVNEY, JAMES 
E. DOIIANY, JOHN DORENBUSCH, JOHN DORRLVN, JOSEPH W. DORRYCOTT, JAMES DOYLE, MICHAEL EHLERMAN, STEPHEN ELEK, ROBERT FINDL,\Y, JAMES FL.\NNERY, HOU'ARD FOLEY, ARTHUR FRtVNZ, ROBERT FRASSANITO, ROGER FUYDAL, FRED GADE, 
A. JOHN GLOCKNER, MICHAEL GR,\NEY, THOMAS GROJEAN, LAURENCE HANR,\HAN, PETER H,\SBROOK, GEORGE HEINE.MAN, THOMAS HERBSTRITT, EMIL HERKERT, JOSEPH HILGER, THOMAS HIRONS, ROBERT HORN, ROBERT JUCKNIESS, iHCHAEL KEARNS, TERRENCE KEATING, DENNIS KELLY, JOHN KELLY, WILLIAM KELLY, EDWARD T. KENNEDY, GER:\LD LtVLLY, TERRY LALLY, ROBERT LAMONTAGNE, TERRY LiVUGHLIN, L;\WRENCE LEACH, MAURIE LcFERE, JOSEPH R. LEGAN, G. MARTIN LEWIS, E. ^^CHAEL LODISH, LAW­RENCE LOJE, F. H. LOOSEN, KEITII .\ML­COLM, WILLIAM MAPOTHER, JACOB M,\R­HOEFER, ROBERT MARSCHALL, LAWRENCE M,\RTIN, J. PATRICK ^URTIN, THOMAS MARTIN, DAVID MAYER, DONALD T. MC­ALLISTER, JOSEPH MCCARTHY, FRANCIS 
MCDONNELL, BERNARD MCELROY, EUGENE 
MCFADDEN , F . PATRICK McFADDEN, JERRY McGLYNN, JOHN McKEE, JOHN McKENNA, EDWARD McKEOWN, WILLIAM McMURTRIE, 
C. THO^L^S MEYERS, HERBERT MOELLER, PAUL MULCAHY, LEONARD MULLER, A. JAMES MURRAY, M. CHARLES NACKLEY, JAMES NAUGHTON, TIMOTHY NEEDLER, THO.MAS O'CONNELL, DECLAN O'DONNELL, EDWARD O'MALLEY, REED O'MALLEY, PHILIP O'REILLY, DENNIS PANOZZO, AN­TONIO PARISI, RIVERS PATOUT, RONALD PAUL, PATRICK PHELiVN, DENNIS PHENEY, WARREN PLUNKETT, JOHN POUBA, THOM­AS QUINN, GEORGE REEBER, TERENCE REILLY, JOHN H. REISERT, GEORGE RICH­VALSKY, CHARLES RIEHM, PATRICK ROACHE, WILLIAM ROTH, AL SABAL, FREDERICK L. SALMON, CHARLES SA\VICKI, PETER SAVOUR, RONALD SCHELLING, MICHAEL SCHLITT, DANIEL J. SCHUSTER, HAROLD SEITZ, BRIAN SHANNON, EDWIN SHAUGHNESSY, EDWIN L. SILLIMAN, J. THOMAS SOLON, WILLMM STEHLE, JAMES 
K. STUCKO, JAMES E. SULLIVAN, WAYNE SULLIVAN, JOSEPH THUMMESS, ROBERT TOLAND, LAWRENCE VANCE, ARTHUR VELASQUEZ, JOHN WALKER, WILLIAM WARD, NESTER WEIGAND, ^^CHAEL WIEDL, ROBERT WILLIAMS, RON ZLOTNIK. 
From the Alumni OfHcc: LOUIS M. ROMANO has received a master's degree in business administration from De Paul U. in Chicago. JOHN P. ROSSI has been named an assistant professor in history at La Salle College in Phila­delphia. FURMAN SMITH JR. has received a bachelor of laws degree from U. of Virginia. RAYMOND L. GAIO has been named director of state and chapter affairs for the American Institute of Architects, Washington, D.C. Ray will coordi­nate the activities of the institute's 153 chapters and state organizations. He was national president of the Association of Student Chapters of AlA while at Notre Dame. LT. WILLIAM J. HEAPHY has entered Air Force flight training at Reese Air Force Base, Tex. REV. A. J. KANDATHIL of St. Thomas U., Fredericton, Ne\%* Brunswick, Canada, has begun a "Save a Family Plan" program to help ease the thousands who die of hunger each day. Fr. Kan­dathil, an India native who received a doctorate from ND in '60, sends donated money directly to needy families in India. Tliis program eliminates the middlemen who often soften the cfTectivencss of a larger program. ROBERT G. BECKER is associated irith the architectural firm of White and Co., Gothenburg, Sweden. EDWARD L. MEYER JR. writes that he and his wife, Joni, have embarked upon building a four-bedroom house since their family lias grown with a set of *'Irish twins"; Kristin Marie, bom January 19, I9&I, and Michelle Ann, November 18, 19«. 
•C | Nick Paiamich 
V I 34 Daitmouth Rd. West Orange, N.J. 

REUNION REGISTRANTS JAMES E. GOULD, DAN LYONS. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 
CARL M. W.ALSH has been awarded a juris doctor degree from De Paul U., Chicago. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, I96S 61 
RO.VALD A. SHUBERT hss rvcclvcd a doctor ol 

medicine degree from Western Rescnc U., Cleve­
land, Ohio. 
HEN'RY L. FROMMEYER HI has joined the 

employee communications department of EH Lilly 
and Co., Indianapolis. He will serve as a staff re­
porter for the house organ. The UUy Ncivs. 
THOMAS J. MUSIAL has returned to the Univer­

sity as an instructor in the Collegiate Seminar Pro­
gram for juniors while he completes work for his 
doctorate in Engh'stt. 
BILL BRIEVOGEL is en route to Cairo, Eg>-pt, 

with his bride, the fonncr Miss McUnda Frances 
langford. Tlicy were married in Berkeley, Calif., 
where Bill got his doctorate in chcmistrx' from the 
XJ. of California. Bill will be assistant professor of 
chemistr>- at the American U. in Cairo. 
LT. MARTIN EVERY was one of llic Navy 

frogmen who attached the flotation collar to tlic 
Gemini capsule of astronauts, Jim White and Ed 
McDivitt, earlier this summer. Lt. Evcr\' under­
went 10 days of intensive training for the mission, 
but was rewarded by the personal contact with 
the astronauts. Lt. Every and his wife, Bonnie, will 
leave the Navy in January and he wjll enroll at 
Texas A & ^I to work on a master's degree in 
oceanography. His undergraduate major at ND v^-as 
biochemistrv. 
DR. RUDOLPH H. EHRENSIN'G received his 

^ID degree from Cornell U. Medical College dur­
ing commencement this June. 
DENNIS P. CANTAVELL was co-winner of tlie 

Sidney I. Scliwab book prize in ps^'ciiiatrv- at \N'ash­
ington U., St. Louis. 
LT. FRANCIS R, CICCO.VE was awarded ilic 

Bronze Star Medal with combat *'V" for action 
while serving as adviser with the 2nd Troop, 4th 
Armored Cavalry Squadron, Armed Forces of 
South Xlet Nam in October, I9&4-. "Lt. Cicconc's 
coolness under heavy enemy fire gave inspiration to 
the Vietnamese soldiers in the vehicle . . .," a 
citation reads in part. 
LT. TERRENCE K. MARTIN has been assigned 

to the G4tb Militarv Police Co.. Nanc^', France. 
DR. JEREMY J. KAYE has received his MD 

degree from Cornell U. Medical College in spring 
commencement. 
STEPHEN MURRAY sent a note to have his 

address clianged. He's now the associate director 
for the Peace Corps in Lima, Peru, and can be 
WTitten to in care of the .-\merican Embassy there. 
Steve extends a "y'all come on down" to any who 
might make it to the land of the Incas. 
•Jt^ Terrcncc F. McCarthy 
O A 31957 Williamsburg S t Clair Shores, Mich. 

From the Alumni Office: Three members of the Class of '62 have received degrees from the U. of Virginia in spring com­mencement exercises. Awarded degrees were: JAMES F. CREAGAN, his Ph.D.; JOH.V ^^\ GLYNN JR., LL.B.; and EDWARD H. RAST.\T­TER, Ph.D. FREDERICK C. CAPPETTA and WILLI.AM B. MOSTON have received their baclielor of laws de­grees from De Paul U. this summer. DON L. CRIQUI has become assistant sports director to Frank GifTord at AVCBS-TV in New York. Don had been sports director of WSBT-TV in South Bend since March, 1963. DR. ERNEST R. VENERUS has taken a position as nuclear engineer at the Knolls .Atomic Power Laboraior}', ScJjcncclady, N,Y. Dr. Vcncrus re­ceived his doctorate in nuclear engineering from North Carolina State this spring. JOSEPH P. SUMMERS has resigned as special assistant state attorney general of Minnesota to Join a Minneapolis law firm. WALTER M. KELLY JR. recently received his law degree from Loyola of Chicago's law school, and three of his classmates there were classmates with him in the first grade at St. Catherine of Siena, Oak Park, 111., in 1946. Walt plans to join Arthur Andersen and Co. as a tax lav\-vcr. LT. PATRICK D. MORAX has been graduated from the Air Force tcclinical instructor's training course, Randolph Air Force Base, Tex. 
'J D Frank P. DiccIIo w ^ 218 Palmer HiU Rd. Old Greenwich, Conn. 

It is with great pleasure that I open this column with the neve's of the engagement of my former roommate, DON RYAN, to the pretty and viva­cious Marion Aldigc of Wilmettc, III. Don received an MBA from Northwestern in June and he and 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, September-October, 
FR. A. J. KANDATHIL PhD'60 

According to a United Nations' study, lOjOOO persons die each day in the world due to star\'ation or malnutrition. Rev. Augustine J. Kandathil PhD '60 is tr>*ing to do something about it 
Five months ago Fr. Kandathil, who is head of the chcmistr>' department, S t Thomas University, Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada, founded the "Save a Family Plan" for the star\ang thousands in India, his native land. 
Under the plan an American or Canadian family "adopts" a poor family in India and sends them aid — direct This direct contact between needy and benefactor Is the unique quality of Fr. Kandathil's pro­gram. 
The program proHdes the benefactor with the name and address of a needy family and for $5 a month the donor can keep a whole family from standing or edu­cate a child to make him self-supporting. Correspondence is urged between the parties, and sources in India check on the authenticit>' of requests for aid and the use of the money sent to India. 
"A person-to-person plan to help people is much more effective than those big proj­ects," Fr. Kandathil explained in a recent feature story in the Saginaw, Mich. News, 
"A lot of money from those plans doesn't reach the people. 
"And that 10,000 a day estimate — that's probably low," he said. 
Marion vvilJ be married in September prior to his cntr>' on active duty with the Army. 
Since the last ALUMNUS deadline many letters have been received from our Class area reps. From Detroit TERRY DESMOND writes: 
"CLIFF ANGERS is with Colgate-Palmolive, just having been transferred to New York. He received his MBA from Michigan and is the proud father of a little giri. GREG SCHWARTZ also received his MBA from Michigan and he is now the proud father of two sons. Greg is with ^fanu­facturers National Bank here in Detroit. LARRY MORGAN received a similar degree from Micli­igan and he is now with the Ford Motor Co. RAY 
2965 

BONANNO was married in January to Joan Larin. 
BOB GE5ELL was married last summer, as was 
CLAIR CARNEY. JACK SLATTERY also joined 
the wedded ranks and is now with Scott Paper 
Co. MICKEY WALKER is now with Ford, and 
he is the proud father of a baby boy. ROBERT 
B.\ER is also married, the event taking place last 
summer to Mary Ann ^Voods, a St. Mary's girl 
whom Bob dated during his days at ND. BRIAN 
RICHARDSON also is married and is with the 
General Motors Corp. (As you can see, we have 
many marriages around here.) MATT MURPHY 
also is with GM. He and PAT O'BRIEN and 
myself are bowling together on the same team. 
"One sad note: the father of CHARLIE E. 

RIVARD, Dr. Charles Rivard, passed away. 
*'As for myself, I was married last summer at 

ND to Mar>-' Elizabeth Brcen, daughter of JOHN 
F. BREEN '33. Among the '63ers there were CLIFF ANGERS, MATT MURPHY, PETE JASON, PAT O'BRIEN, CHARLIE DRISCOLL, TV DE.ME­TRIO, JOHN VAN DEWALLE, JOE TOLAND, L.ARRY MORG.^.N, and GEORGE COONEY." 
Thanks, Tcny, for a fine letter. From St. Louis, where he is attending St. Louis 
U. Law School and working for the Teamsters Union, BILL S\nTH sends news on the following fcliows: 
AL DESKO was married soon after wc graduated and now has a small daughter. He is currently finishing his second year of a three-year tour of duty in the Army. 
PAUL LEiriS and vWfe (the former Carol Kramer) arc now at Fort Ord, Calif. The Lewises were expecting an addition in July or August. 
From the Alumni Office: HAROLD W. SCHAEFGEN has received his master's degree in electrical engineering from Princeton U. Two members of the Class of '63 have received their master's degrees from the U. of Virginia. They are: RICHARD F. EASTON JR. and JOHN V. REISHMAN II. DO.VALD E. MATZZIE has received a master's degree in civil engineering from Carnegie Institute of Tcclinology, Pittsburgh, Pa. DENNIS J. PHILLIPS has completed the man­agement training course at Pittsburgh National Bank and has been assigned to the automated cus­tomer services department with the bank. LT. MICHAEL C. LA.NE has been au-ardcd his Air Force pilot's wings upon completion of flight scliool, Laughlin Air Force Base, Tex. LT. JOSEPH R. HICKEY is an Army platoon leader stationed in South Korea. JOHN GARRITY JR. has joined the missile and aerospace divnsion of General Electric Co., Phila­delphia. MICHAEL SWITEK has received a grant-in-aid from Tlic Society of the Sigma Xi for a study of the stratigraphy and structure of the Elfchorn Ridge Argillitc, Baker County. Ore. LT. DLMITRI J. SOLGA has been awarded bjs Air Force pilot's wings upon completion of flight school at Moody Air Force Base, Ga. LT. JOHN T. PEHLER JR. has completed the rigorous Air Force survival and special training course at Stead Air Force Base. Ncv. LT. HOWARD J. SCHNEEBERGER was a pilot for the airlift of supplies and the evacuation of Americans from the Dominican Republic during the revolt there in the spring. 
^LA Warren C. Stephens 
* " 778 Coleman Ave. Mcnlo Park, Calif. 

From the Alumni Office: JOHN R. BRUNO has been appointed an "all­media buyer" for Kctchum, MacLeod & Grove, Inc. • (advertising, public relations) and will be as­signed to the firm's New York ofHce. MICHAEL J. BRADLEY has been commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Force after gradua­tion from Officer Training School. JOHN K. KOESTER Jias been awarded a mas­ter's degree in applied mathematics by the Califor­nia Institute of Technology, Pa5adcna. LT. FITHIAN M. SH.AW JR. has entered Air Force fliglit training at ^Vebb Air Force Base, Tex. 
'A 4 Thomas F. Conneely 556 Ehnn'ood Ave. Law Evanston, 111. 60202 

You're right, you didn't elect me class scribe, volunteered! And don't laugh, for, to borrow a phrase from JOHN LE.AHY, I'm not here to be made sport of. With your cooperation this column will appear four times a year. Became space is allotted on the basis of class size it will not be pos­sible lo mention evcr>-onc in each column but please keep me informed of your activities. Send any news you have about yourself or about any class member to me and I'll sec that you get into print. 
Here are a tew hasty bits gathered in an east-to­

. West swoop in order to make the deadline for this issue. FRANK "MOVER" MIELE is practicing in Ncu'ark and is married^ according to RUSS BLEV. The Arabian Knight, CHARLIE MacFARLANE, is in Ncif York City and at last word was trying to compile a list of all his former employers and landlords to present to the Character and Fitness Committee there. 
DAVE PETRE, witli Xerox in Rochester, is also married and is reportedly working on a device to reproduce the "sun god look" for which he became famous. LARRY GALLICK is with a Buffalo firm and will soon be joined by JIM LEKIN '63. 
The minute criminal element that docs exist in Ohio is rapidly being diminished in size by JOE "SEND 'EM AWAY" KILLIAN, who, according to uord passed to JACK JIGANTI by CHUCK SWEENEY, has had three of his con\-ictions uvhcld on appeal. 
From the upper reaches of Michigan comes word that Claudettc and JERRY VARIO are the parcnU of twins, hct's hear more about that, Jerr>-! 
Martha and I plan to get together with Judy and STEVE MORSE in mid-June for a one-year reunion. Whils I'm at ND I'll check with Mrs. White for any nc%« from CHARLIE O'MALLEY PAUL POL­LARD, JACK R/\M.MEL, JIM SLATER and PAT WEIR. 
Wedding plans are being formulated by JOHN "JIGS" JIGANTI. He will marr>-a very attractive probation officer on September 18. 
ZNflGGER is with a Chicago firm that numbers among its clients the Independent Garbage Col­lectors' Assn. You w*ill recall that Zmig did some graduate work in this field during summer \-acations. 
LOU PFEILER, in Chicago for a few days while Judge JOHN F. KILKENNY '25, u-as temporarily sitting in the Northern District of Illinois, plans to Join a. Dubuque law ftrm when liis clerkship ends. He reports that the Oregon territor>' was appealing but that the lure of home was too great. 
RUSS BLEY will Join the legal department of Monsanto Corp. in St. Louis in the fall. GENE KRAMER will join a Cleveland firm. 
RON FAKLER is clerking for the Hon. Roger I. McDonough of the Supreme Court of Utah. Wind­ing up this report b the word that COMMODORE LEAHY is holding forth in a surfside apartment in Long Beach, Calif., and is keeping IiIs weight dou-n by taking weekend cruises with the Na%'al Reserve. 
Please let mc hear from each member of the class before the October 1 deadline. Cheers to all! 
I f I" James P. Hamisch OQ 71 Poland Manor Poland, Ohio 

Class of '63 officers report that 397 members of the class have signed pledges so far for the Class Scholarship Fund. This amounts to $79,400 pledged. All members arc asked to pledge to the fund Jf they have not done so. Class members will receive addi­tional information of the fund in the near future. 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
BILL CLARK, who holds the ND indoor (8:52.7), fieldhouse (8:57.6) and outdoor (8:54.6) records for the two-mile run, has accepted a posi­tion with a firm in the east and intends to run in 
' (fte Eastern indoor meets this winter. Like many ND runners have discovered, his best times may be'yet to come. 
DANIEL REITER enters the Peace Corps this fall for an assignment in Tanzania, Africa, to teach high-school English. ^V'hen he ends liis Peace Corps tour he plans to do graduate work in business ad­ministration at the U. of California, Berkeley. 
GERALD SWIACKI has been awarded a scholar­ship by the American Osteopathic Association Aux­iliary. He is enrolled In the Chicago College ot Osteopathy. 
DAVID P. NIEH.\US has completed his month of Peace Corps training at Princeton U. and is headed for Turkey where he will teach high school English. 
EDWARD STUEMKE has accepted a position on the faculty of Marbn High School in Mish­awaka where he will organize and direct the high-school chorus, band and orchestra. He will continue his studies at the University toward a master's degree in music. 
JOHN J. ANTON has been awarded an educa­tional grant from the State Department's Bureau of 
'& S John A. Hautcr 

Educational and Cultural Affairs for advanced study of mathematics at the Technical Institute at 
18441 Cowti^ Ct. 

Karlsruhe, Germany. Law Homewood, HI. 
FRANK W. BRENNAX has been named systems engineer for Cook Electric Co.'s Data-stor division, Members of the Law School's Class of '& are Morton Grove, III. encouraged to send John information regarding thdr 
LT. ROBERT A. SHORT has completed a nine-professional, individ'^al and family activities. To these week signal officers' course at the Army South­notes the Alumni Office will add other ncv^ of the eastern Signal School, Fort Gordon, Ga. Class as it is received. 
THREE GENERATIONS, and t^vo of them are NDcrs! The families arc those of George L. '48 and William J. Oh-any Jr. '42, sons of Mrs. William J. Olvany Sr. Left to light arc: back row, Mrs. George (Patricia) Olvany; Patricia, daughter of George; Denas, son of WilHani Jr.; William III, sophomore at NO; Airs. ^Villiam Olvany Jr.; Dolores, daughter of William Jr. Second row, Kathleen; George; Peter; Mrs. William J. Olvany Sr., holding Annc-Maric; Michael; William J. Jr.; James. Bottom row, John and Paul. Missing is Stephen, Gcoi^'s son born January, 1965. 
SAN DIEGO—Named Man of the Year by the ND Oub of San Diego at a recent dinner. Regis Philbin (second from right) displays the scroll presented him. Loolung on are left to right, Don Lopker, retiring Club president; Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell CSC, special representative of University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC; and Afort Goodman, LA attorney and v-p of the National Alumni Association. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September-October, 1965 63 
President's 
Page 

Dear Fellow Alumnus: One of the distinct pleasures of my life was haN^ng a part in honoring Jim Anhstrong as the most i-aluable Notre Dame alumnus for more than a quarter century. My return, on the occasion of the June meeting, to the hallowed campus that has left its imprint on me, stirred some memories. It al^rays does tliat. I'm reminded all over again how much of my heart is with Notre Dame — and how much a part of me are men of old Notre Dame. Jim Armstrong fits into that circle of gentlemen whose dedicated ser\'ice to Notre Dame has been enduring. They hold a very special place. In my mind, as I see it now, there are men who represent Notre Dame and what it is, and stands for. One of these was the very kind Father J. Leonard Carrico. Except for him, I'd have missed a lifelong dream of going 
to Notre Dame. He took me in; I could never have made it without him. That first autumn of '42, in old Car­
roll Hall, the present Father Dave Scheider of Batavia, New York, was my roommate. I won't forget I'm bet­
ter for having knouoi him. Our prefect — in those days when we washed in the basement, studied on the second floor, and lived on cots on four, where bed sheets partitioned the room — was Brother Justin. His face 
•was round as a moon, and red as an apple. He bubbled cheer and there \vas a bit of Barrymore in him. 
His diction was lyrical, even when 

(to Dave's and my great pleasure) he 
recited "Dangerous Dan McGrew" or 
"Casey at the Bat." 
He had his o\\'n way of teaching us discipline, and values. And we'd split our sides listening when he recited poems by T.E.B.; compositions like "Kokomo Sue" or "Sonnets to a Sub­stitute." Then, he would draw us in so effortlessly, to "The Hound of Heaven," and weightier stuff. 
Somewhere now, I know, there's a cluster of appreciative angels gathered round Brother Justin, evenings, to be entertained. 
W. D. RoUison was tall, greying, and courtly — a Southern Gentleman through and through. He taught torts in Law School — and personified all that ever was meant by the term "the reasonable prudent man." 
Elton Richter, who taught contracts, had the bearing and the looks of an all-pro tackle. He owned a coal business in South Bend, and so his lectures sometimes were spiced with advice that came not entirely from the books. A serious and most fair man, he could fill the room with his laughter that came sometimes in a roar. 
Even today, when I draft any con­tract in my legal offices in Dallas, I'm inclined to ask "what-would-a-coal­dealer-do-in-a-case-like-this?" 
Msgr. W. J. Doheny wrote so much of Canon Law — and he found time to be the spiritual guide to many Notre Dame men, including me, and the young lady who became my wife. 
Naturally, we shared the pride that 

many others felt, when Msgr. Doheny 
was elevated to the Roman Rota, the 
Supreme Court of die Catholic Church. 
And I sometimes wonder if, in far-

off Rome, Msgr. Doheny's old football 
knees throb just a bit when, on an 
autumn day, the rousing Victory March 
echoes the name of Notre Dame. 
To many of us, who thrill to the sound of the Victory March, the Mon­signor taught much more than a course in Legal Ethics. 
They were like that: men of great­ness \viio held in trust the bond that they are a part of all that Notre Dame IS. They possessed warmth and gentle­ness, and humility. And each had strength of character, and a set of values to pass on freely to students. 
Each one is someone special. 

Ha\'ing worked \vith Jim Armstrong on the Alumni Board, I know there never ^vas a man with more ability, or one whose loyalty to Notre Dame was deeper or stronger. The Notre Dame : Alumni Association, and Jim individ-) ually, received National Alumni honors ^ in 1964 over ever)' other such group in the Nation. 
Deser\'ing of the recognition that we bestowed on him? That is imderstat­ing it He has been the heart, breath and soul of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. He deserves appreciation from all of us — the best we can give. 
Sincerely, 
LANCASTER Ssirrn '50 
President, 
Alumni Association ^ 





