The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
©6c 
• NCTCE D/iHE ALUMNUS 

Vol. 25 
ftoll^ 
DECEMBER, 1947 No. 6 
HEADQUARTERS: The Map in the new Foundation Offices indicates the extent of the 48-state, 160-city or­ganization already effected—Governors, City Chairmen, City Committees, Clubs. 
FIELD: Symbolic o{ the organization in the field is the excellent picture from Newark, N. I., showing N. J. Governor of the Foundation, R. A. Geiger; N. D. administrator Bev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C» N. I, Club President George Melinkovich; Foundation Chairman and Alumni Pres. H. G. Hogon; and City Chair­man and Lay Trustee loseph M. Byrne. 
PRESS: That the Foundation is no longer just experimental and local is evident from the intimations in the clippings from various national sources reflecting activity on many fronts. 
••*-"• T. Hoi" S" "'""" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


CLUB REPRESENTATIVES MEET AT N. D. p 
o 
First row, left to right: Thomas E. Dixon, Milwaukee; John E. Ijsicki, Central New Jersey; Joseph M. Geraghty, Rochester-William Broun, Cleveland (student); Clayton G. Leroux, Cleve­land; Harry G. Hogan, president. Alumni Association; James E. Armstrong, Alumni office; Boberi T. Hellrung, vice-president. Alumni Association; John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president; Lewis J. O'Shea, Baltimore; Hugo lacovetti. Western Pennsyl­vania: Mitchell C. Tackley, Northern New York: Gilbert V. Perry, Wilkes-Barre; Louis J. Finske, Scranton: Bill Dooley, Alumni office. 
Second row: John J. McNeill, Harrisburg, Pa.; Joseph C. Barber, Erie, Pa.; Richard J. Derides, New Jersey; John W. Roach, Wisconsin—South Central: Tiemey A. O'Rourke, New York City; John J. Cannon. Central Ohio; John W. Carey, Northern California; Daniel J. Hecht, Peoria, 111.; Faris N. Cowart, Florida; Charles F. Vogt, Eastern Indiana; William J. Woemer, Kentucky; John J. McLaughlin, Rhode Island and Eastern Mass.; Thomas M. Reardon, Kansas & Missouri; Malcolm F. Knaus, Detroit; Edward W. Story, Western Oklahoma. 
Third row: Walter L. Fleming, Dallas; Clarence T. Sheehan, Youngstown, Ohio: Donald A. Hennessey, Rock River Volley, N, Y.; John Cackley, Alumni Office; John F. Hurley, Schenec­tady, N. Y.; Robert E. LeMire, Hiawathaland—^Michigan & Wis­consin; Joseph T. Neenan, West Virgina: Thomas S. McCabe, Chicago; Daniel Culhane, Washington, D. C; George J. Pflanz, m, Des Moines; Dr. Daniel G. Monaghan, Denver; Robert Lon­ergan, Chicago; Daniel C. Sheedy, Buffalo; Craig Whitaker, (student) Kcmsas City: Albert T. Ersklne. Tri-Cities: Mark Mooney, Central New York; Edward J. Dwyer (student). Cen­tral New York. 

Fourth row: James G. Cowles, Northern Louisiana: Charles 

A. Conley, Philadelphia: Robert G. Molin, Oregon: David F. Hyde, LaCrosse, Wis.- John R. Malone, Toledo; Robert M. Rog­ers, Minnesota—^Twin Cities; William H. Belden, Canton, Ohio; 
J. Walter Nienaber, Cincinnati: John E. Cronin, Cinciimati (stu-^ dent): Fred C. Weber. Jr., St Louis: John E. Mclntyre, St. Joseph Valley; T. J. Foley, Jr., Memphis; John P. Joyce, Phoenix: James 
H. Hogan, Triple Cities, N. Y.; George C. Martinet, Monongahela Valley, Pa_- D. Frank Mumane, Naugatuck Valley. 
Fiith row: John P. English, Western Washington; Theodore 

A. Nolan, Iron Range Club: Jules E. de la Vergne, New Orleans: Bernard T. Keams, Fort Wayne: Don Levandosld and Joseph 
F. Deeb. Grand Rapids—^Western Michigan: Bernard T. Grainey, Montana; John J. GoUa, Southwestern Conn.: Jdmes J. Drislane, Capitol District- W. Edward Leroux, Tulsa Club; Theodore A. Witz, Tucson, Ariz.: Paul A. Bertsch, Akron. Ohio: Thomas A. Standish, Houston, Texas; Thomas R. Ashe, Los Angeles, Cal.; Arthur A. Baum, Delaware: Richard T. Neeson, Springfield, 111.; John V. Moron, Boston. 
At meeting but not in picture: Daniel D. Lynch, Calumet Dis­trict; F. J. Henneberger, Tri-State: Floyd F. Richards, Connecticut Valley: E. Williom Hoyne, Dayton, Ohio: Jerome A. Ryan, Ham­ilton, Ohio; Dr. Philip C. Hemming, Illinois Fox Valley; Patrick 
J. Hsher, Indianapolis; Hugh L. Bums, Michigan City; Thomas 
H. Nelson, Dubuque. Iowa. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This maeazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter Octo­ber 1, 1939» at the Postoffice, Notre Dame. Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor; William B« Dooley, '26, Managing Editor 
Vol. 25 DECEMBER, 1947 No. 6 
77 Delegates Attend Club Council 
University Policies Outlined For Thoroughly-Planned 
Representatives of 77 Notre Dame clubs came to Notre Dame on Nov. 21-22 for the Second Annual Club Council. 

From noon Friday, Nov. 21, until noon Saturday, the delegates—most of them presidents of their clubs—worked intensive­ly. (You get the general idea of "intensive­ly" when you hear that they were at the Friday night meeting until 11:30.) They received, and discussed, first-hand informa­tion about the University, its hopes, its pol­icies and its needs, and they considered at length some of the more important aspects of club operation. Too, they had many an informal "session" among themselves, espe­cially Saturday night and Sunday after the 
V 
^ 

at Conference; Need Club Programs Emphasized 
official talking was past. It was a busy and 
effective weekend. 
Registration for the Council took place 

all Friday morning in the new .\lumni As­
sociation offices in the former Carroll study 
hall in the Main Building. Delegates were 
housed in the dormitories in the Main 
Building. 
(Sanitar)' note: The last of the former 

Brownson and Carroll washrooms in the 
Main Building was converted to other uses 
within the past year. Of necessity, there­
fore, the delegates to the Second Annual 
Club Council were given a taste of pioneer 
living by way of basins, pitchers of water 
and assorted mirrors, all provided in the 
Joseph T. Neenan. West Vizginio: Rob­ert G. Molin. Otegon: and David F. Hyde. LaCrosse. VHs.: in ilie doimitorr provided for delegates in the Main 
Building. 

D 
Alumni club delegates attend the first meeting in the Law Auditorium on Nov. 21. Honry G. Hogan, president of the Alumni Association (back to camera, extreme lelt). addresses the group. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Resolutions Adopted 

FOUNDATION Resolved: That the Local Alumnt Clubs make spe­cial efforts to cooperate with the Foundation City Committee in the recognition of non-alumni friends of the University in the community by extending invitations to events they would enjoy, etc. Resolved: That ihe Local Alumni Clubs undertake to provide the programs locally that will reflect the prestige of the University and that must ser\e as the basis of Foundation contacts. Resolved: That the Local Alumnt Clubs make a special effort to identify themselves and Notre Dame favorably with Church and cine agencies, for publicity and prestige involved and for the expansion of contacts that come within these flelds. ResolvevE That the Local Aluninl Clubs extend their deep appreciation and high praise for the splendid and untiring efforts in the conception and in the development of the Notre Dame Founda­tion by Rev. John J. Caxunaugh, CS.C , the Honorable Harr>- G. Hogan and his able aides, James Armstrong, Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, CS.C , William Dooley and Robert Hellnmg. 
ORGANIZ.\TION \

The head table at the opening luncheon on Nov. 21. Left to right, John E. Cronin 
Resolved: That all Lf>cal Alumni Clubs will, in 
(student), president Cincinnati Club of Notre Dame; Harry G. Hogan, president of the 1948, make efforts locale as 
 special to and enlist Alumni Association; Father John J. Cavanaugh, president of the University; Father members the non-grsduatc former Notre Dame students in the community. These shall be con­
John H. Murphy, vice-president of the University; and Robert T. Hellrung, vice-presi­
strued to include men who attended the >nninis 
dent of the Association, in charge of clubs. 
or the Preparatory- School, the Boy Guidance or the Summer School. 
Resolved: That persons who have never attended dormitories. So crowded is the campus that subsequent taking of the official Notre Dame any its shall
 group pic­ in of divisions not be eligible to regular membership in Local Alumni 
residence accommodations elsewhere were ture, the presidents assembled Friday after­
Clubs. not possible.) noon in the auditorium of the Law Build­Be it Further Resolved: That any outstanding friend of the University, or benefactor, or former ' 
ing, where most of the sessions were held. 
.•\ reception in the parlor of the Main professor, shall be eligible for honorary member­Here, President Hogan, to organize efTcc-ship in the Club uiwn proper election as deter­
Building was a wamiup for the official 
mined by the Club. meeting which got under way with a lunch-And Be it Further Resolved: lliat parents of stu­
tively the business of the Council appointed 
the following committees: Notre Dame 
con in the Dining Halls at noon. Here, dents or other active participants in Notre Dame Foundation Committee: Joseph F. Dccb, events such as the Lay Retreat on the campus, 
many of the representatives of the alumni 
or men who attended the United Slates Midship­
Grand Rapids, chairman; Bernard T. 
clubs met and sat with the presidents of men's School, should be cultix-ated by the Local Kearns, Fort Wayne; John J. McNeill, Club and may, if the Club so desires and pro­
the corresponding campus geographical 
vides, made members the clubs—an innovation planned this year by witliout the ]>ower to vote or hold ofTice. 
Harrisburg; Thomas R. .Ashe, Los Angeles;  be associate of Chib 
Joseph T. Neenan, Charleston. Organiza­the .Alumni Office which met with wide 
tion Committee: Patrick Fisher, Indianap­
approval on the part of both alumni and students. Particularly, the alumni presidents and the student presidents were able to talk over matters of common interest in their home areas, such as Christmas dances and alumni-student get-togethers of other kinds. 
Father John J. Ca%-anaugh, C.S.C., pres­ident of the XJniversit)', introduced by .•\lumni President Harrj- G. Hogan, was the chief speaker following the luncheon. Welcoming the club representatives, he out­lined for them the compelling reasons back of the organization of the new Notre Dame Foundation. Father Ca\'anaugh's talk, as well as later talks by Harrj- Hogan, Friday afternoon, and Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the president, Saturday morning, gave strong emphasis to the Foundation—the primary topic dis­cussed over the weekend. Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president, was an­other honored guest at the Friday lunch­
In front of the Law Building before a meeting. Left to right, John McNeill, Harris­
eon and spoke briefly. 
burg, Pa.; Theodore A. Nolan, Iron Range Club; Jules K. de la Vergne, New Orleans; Following a question and ans.-.er period W. E. Leroux. Tulsa; John A. Galla, Southwestern Connecticut; John P. English. West-conducted by Father Cavanaugh and the em Washington; Donald A. Hennessy, Rock River Valley. 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 

By Club Council Vote 
Resolved: That annually, wherever possiblq, a Di­rectoo* of each Local Club shall be published, in whatever form is most effective, and a copy sent to the Alumni Office. 
Resolved: That the Chib shall, by whatever ar­rangement with a member or a local center may be deemed most effective, H-t itself in the local telephone book. 
Resolved: That tlie Local Alumni Club Manual be revised, and that the Clubs will, in 1948, make special efforts to achieve the balanced program to be outlined in the new Manual, especially the 
- appointment of the major committees. 
FIXANCE 

Resolved: That Club finances, involving varying amounts, usually not heavy* in volume, and in­volving \-ar\-ing methods of collection, be kept completely separate from the finances of the Alumni /Vssociation and the University of Notre Dame Foundation, and be made a matter of local determination and agreement. 
Be it Further Resolved: That each Club submit each year to its complete membership a report of the finances for the year. 
Resolved: That the Local Alumni Clubs increase their efforts to realize funds as organizations, through \'arious channels open to organization action, and that they make organization gifts to the University as well as stimulate the individual member giving. 
Resolved: That the Local .\himni Club consider seriously the program for a Club Scholarship if none exists. Experience indicates that the Scholar­ship does not conflict with other fund programs, but frequently stimulates them, that it gives the Club's own fund raising program cohesion, and that it give the Club entree to the community schools on a constructive and friendly basis as well as providing a strong publicity channel. 
Resolved: That the Council of Local Club Presidents assembled on the Notre Dame campus on Novem­ber 21 and 22, 1947, go on record as endorsing wholeheartedly the organization of the University of Notre Dame Foundation as a program to bring about the most effective solution of the financial problems attending the proper realization of the great opportunities that face the University. 
At the reception in the University' Parlor Richard T. Neeson« Springfield. H U Thomas A. Stondish, Houston, Texj John F. Hurley, Schenectady, N. Yj and T. J. (Jerry) Foley, Memphis, ore shown in foreground. Behind them, are, left to right, Paris N. Cowort (back to camera), Florida; Doniel Culhane, Washington, D. CL; Clar­ence T. "Pete" Sheehon, Yotmgstovm, Ohio, ond Mark Mooney, CentraL N. Y. 
olis, chairman; Thomas S. McCabe, Chi­cago; Lewis J. 0*Shea, Baltimore; Thomas 
E. Dixon, Milwaukee; Charles A. Conley, Philadelphia. Finance Committee: Tiemey 
A. O'Rourke, New York City, chairman; John W. Carey, San Francisco; Thomas M. Reardon, Kansas City; Daniel J. Hecht, Peoria; Fred C. Weber, Jr., St. Louis. The resolutions adopted by these committees were approved by Council vote Saturday morning and appear elsewhere in this article. 
President Hogan's discussion of the Foundation was followed by a question and answer period. Bob Hellrung, vice-president of the Alumni Association (and the per­son responsible for much of the weekend's program) presided at the subsequent panel discussion on "Some Fundamental Purposes and Projects of Notre Dame Clubs." In this session, Tiemey O'Rourke, New York City, considered "Club Scholarships" and in the discussion got some expert assistance from Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C., chairman- of the University's committee on scholarships and prizes, who was present. Dr. Dan Monaghan, Denver, dwelt upcn "'Club Pub­licity" and Bill Woemer, Louisville, on "Religion and Citizenship." Clayt Leroux, representing the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, outlined the splendid plan which the Cleveland Club has just made effective for stimulating interest and cooperation in the Cleveland Club of Notre Dame (stu­dents). John V. Hinkel, director of the office of public information, gave some" ad­ditional ideas on publicity and particularly asked for the clubs' cooperation in sending in to him newspaper clippings concerned with the non-athletic side of Notre Dame. 
The final session on Friday afternoon was concerned with "Planning a Program for the Club Year" and was led by. John Mc­Intyre of South Bend. Assisting John in the panel were Walt Nienaber, Cincinnati, Ber­nie Keams, Fort Wayne, and John English, 
Seattle. The emphasis here was on the need 
John W. Boach, Wisconsin South Cential Club; Bichaid T. Neeson, Springfield, 
O 
nij John J. Cannon. Central Ohio (with a headgear this time): Father Frank Boland. for definite, specific planning, well in ad­head of the Political Science Dept«- Lewis J. O'Shea. Baltimore, and lames H. Hogan. vance, if a club's annual program is to suc­Triple Cities. N. Y.. meet in the Alumni Office. ceed. Most events have to be planned on a 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

the discussions. It was anticipated, of i course, that all these delegates would re­port to their clubs on the accomplishments and ideas of the Council—otherwise most of the benefit of the Council would soon disappear. The Alumni Ofl5ce will, however, be glad to send a copy of this summary to any individual alumnus interested. Space here does not permit an extended treatment of the excellent material of the Council sessions. 
It was announced-at the Saturday morn­ing session that a new Club Manual to re­place the temporary manual issued a year ago, will be prepared and distributed in the near future. In the manual will be included all the essential formulae for operating a Notre Dame Club, with suggestions, con­stitution, annual program, etc. 
Club representativeE registering in the Alumni Office- Left to right, George C Martinet Monongahela Volley, Pa.: Mitchell Tackley, Northern N. Y-- Paris N. Cowart. 

f. 4. O'Shaughnessy Adds i
Florida; ond William H. Belden, Canton, Ohio. In left background is Bill Dooley. of the Alumni Office. $100,000 to Foundation 
The University of Notre Dame has an­nounced the recent additional gift of $100,­long range basis, it was pointed cut, and egates in the Alumni Hall Chapel Saturday 000 from Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, distin­chairmen with their committees named ac­morning at 8 o'clock. The final official ses­guished St. Paul, Minn., business man, cordingly. sion at 9:30 was highlighted by Father philanthropist and Catholic layman, a mem­Sweeney's summary of the organization ber of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees. 
The Friday dinner featured a talk by methods and policies of the Notre Dame In 1942, Mr. O'Shaughnessy gave $100,­Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., registrar, Foundation. There followed a free-for-all 000 to Notre Dame to institute the on the current enrollment problems at question and answer period. Questions came O'Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation. ANotre Dame. This, like all other talks and rapidly and were answered by Jim Arm­second $100,000 was added to this gift by panels of the weekend, was followed by a strong. A buffet luncheon from 11:30 to 1, Mr. O'Shaughnessy in 1945, and this con­period of questions and answers. It was where the delegates were the guests of tribution brings the Foundation gifts to interrupted in this instance only by the 

Father John Cavanaugh, and the Tulane $300,000. 
pre-game pep meeting av 7:30. 

game at 1:30, where the delegates were The donor was in strong s>'mpathy with 
Following the pep session, the delegates the guests of the Alumni Association, closed the ideals of the fine arts program at Notre returned to the Law Building to hear Herb the official part of the weekend. Many of Dame as outlined by the late President, Rev. Jones, business manager of athletics, with the representatives stayed on until Sunday J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. Active in civic strong support from Bob Cahill, ticket man­for informal discussions with each other and general philanthropic work, Mr. ager, discuss football ticket distribution. and with the Alumni Office staff. O'Shaughness)-, a graduate of St. Thomas ^ 
College, has been a generous benefactor to ^ ^ Herb's summar)- of the severe problems fac­
All club presidents and all others pres­

Catholic education also, and a leader among ing his office, particularly the problem of 
ent were within a week after the meeting 

the laymen of the country. 
getting even alumni with "preference" on 
supplied with a comprehensive siunmary of 
Mr. and Mrs. O'Shaughnessy are the par­

the sideline at the games, met with a cordial ents of five children, one of whom, Don, 
response. Needless to say, there were ques­entered Notre Dame in 1941 and went into 
tions. (Did you know: there are only 4,723 the service the following year. 

seats from the 50-yard line north—or south The recent generous benefaction is par­
—to the goal line on one side of the Notre ticularly stimulating to the new University Dame stadium?) 

Foundation program, which in large meas­During the dinner, discussions had been 
ure is an outgrowth of the vision of Notre arranged by tables on the general theme, Dame's future that inspired Father O'Don­"Money-Making Projects to Finance Club nell and such earlier benefactors as Mr. 
Activities." Discussion leaders at the tables O'Shaughnessy. and their subjects were: Daniel Culhanc, Much of the University's influence will Washington, D. C., "Club Dues;" Thomas rest on leaders imbued with moral responsi­
S. McCabe, Chicago, "Club Directories:" bility, and endowed with those qualities of Fred C. Weber, Jr., St. Louis, "Football articulation which will win them the atten­Excursions;" Charles A. Conley, Philadel­tion and respect of the world in which they phia, "RafBes;" and Malcolm F. Knaus, live. It is in the implementing of this ar­Detroit, "Monte Carlo Parties and Feather ticulation through speech, drama, radio, the Parties." At the Friday night session these press, and other arts of communication that leaders, presented by Dan Culhane, re­Notre Dame is hopeful of early develop- ^A ported on the table discussions and pro­ment The process is greatly accelerated " 
John B. Malone, Toledo. Ohio; Father vided further suggestions in their respective Robert K. Sweeney; and Robert M. Bog-through the cooperation, understanding and fidds. generous ^contributions of Mr. O'Shaugh­
en. Twin Cities. Mino^ leaving the post­

nessy to the special field of the fine arts. 
Father Sweeney offered Mass for the del­oifice. 
Volume 25, No. 6. December, 1947 

Old Carroll Hall remodeled cmd renoTated into a modem office now occupied by the Alnmai Anoeiation and the Foondaiiaa. For an artist's diagram oi the new office, ium to page 13. 

Alumni Association Occupies New Office 
Shares Old Carroll Hall Quarters with Notre Dame Foundation and Department of Public Information 
Staid, old Carroll Hall, underneath the Golden Dome, where scholars once were made, recently became the new headquarters for the Notre Dame Foundation, the Alumni Association, and the Department of Public Information. 
Completely renovated in appearance, mod­ernized with the latest equipment, and staffed with qualified people, the present office is far removed from the days when the late Brother Justin, c.s.c, presided over a quiet study hall from his lofty "throne." 
Some of the prominent structural features in the Foundation headquarters include in­dividual offices for James E. Armstrong, alumni' secretary and vice-chairman of the Foundation's Board of Governors, William 
R. Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, John 
V. Hinlel, director of public information,­and Raymond J. Donovan, assistant director of public information; a conference room for meetings with governors, chairmen, and committees in from the field; and, a large reception lobby to comfortably handle all incoming visitors. The Foundation office is the "clearing house" for dozens of daily personal contacts from faculty, students, and local committee workers, as well as other alumni and non-alumni who frequently stop at the University to obtain information and materials, which will actively establish and assist the Foundation program in their re­spective communities. 
Foundation headquarters will be the focal point for mailing printed matter to approxi­mately 30,000 alumni and non-alumni throughout the world. Also, weekly press releases to several hundred newspapers and periodicals will emanate from the Public Information office. With the inauguration of the Foundation program last siunmer and the constantly increasing expansion of the Alumni Association, the need for additional office space became acute. The previous Alumni office had been utilized for almost a quarter-century, but had out-served its original purpose. 
Since the Foundation, Alumni, and Public Information groups are closely integrated,' it is logical that the centralization of these three organizations will be advantageous for a greater Notre Dame. An informal open­ing was held in the new office during the Army game weekend, when it was estimated that more Alumni were present on the campus than at any other time in the Uni­versity's history. 
Immediately adjoining the new offices is the office of Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, c-s.c, executive assistant to the President. Father Sweeney is the co-ordinator of alumni, pub­lic information and public relations pro­grams at Notre Dame. His office has also handled undergraduate job cotmseling, which is closely allied to the job counseling program for alumni directed by William R. Dooley in the Alumni Office. 
1.507Employed by N.D. 
On the University payroll at the present time are 1,507 full-time employees—974 men and' 333 women. There arc 381 lay­men on the facidty. Of the others, 306 are employed in the Dining Hall, 278 in main­tenance, 58 on government projects,. 48 in the athletic. offices, 28 in the libraries, 24 are policemen and watchmen, 13 are nurses. Several smaller classifications total 
373. The University, payroll has doubled in the past ten years. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


The Board of Trustees and the Foundation 
Finance Committee Handles Investment of University Funds in Securities With Assistance of Counselor 
By E. M. MORRIS. '06 President, Associate Board ol Lay Trustees 
(Aware of Mr. Morris' generous and long­time interest in the financial affairs of the University, the ALUMNUS asked him to write this article, outlining the effective op­eration of the Lay Trustees and emphasizing the real need for generous support of the Notre Dame Foundation. Mr. Morris was elected president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at its November meeting. At the same meeting, I. A. O'Shaughnessy was elected vice-president. Thomas H. Beacom, '20, continues as treasurer and William J. Broderick, '27, as assistant treasurer.—Ed.) 
Eight years ago I became a lay trustee of the Universit}-. I knew ver)- little about the actiNTties of the Board of Lay Trustees which meets twice a year — once in May and once in November. Upon becoming a member I soon became acquainted -with a very fine, outstanding group of men — some twenty in number — coming from \'arious parts of the country. They were sincerely and seriously interested in the activities of the University, and especially interested in the investment of the endowment fund, which at that time was approximately $2,000,000. 
,..^^i>™»-. •""'.-•-' 
« • 

.'\fter I had been on the Board a couple of years and after gi^ng the matter of in­vestment of funds considerable thought, I suggested that a finance committee be set up consisting of five members to be ap­pointed by the President, and that this in­vestinent committee be endowed with au­thority to employ an investment counselor and other help if necessary; that this com­mittee meet frequently and make proper investments of funds available and report to the Board not only its investments but its recommendations. I suggested further that 35 per cent of the funds be invested in good, sound equity stocks (common) and that at least 15 per cent be invested in fixed income securities such as preferred stocks, corporate bonds, etc, the other 50 per cent to be retained in government, municipal or state bonds. The Board finally adopted a resolution providing for the investment of 15 per cent of the fund in equity stocks. .\t later meetings this was changed until now the committee has the authority to in­vest 35 per cent in equit)- stocks and 15 per cent in fixed income securities. 
Three years ago when the investment committee was first formed we immediately employed an investment counselor from the firm of Brundage, Story and Rose of New York City. This firm also advises eight or ten other colleges and universities on sound investments of their portfolios. 
A% soon as the committee was organized we immediately started to work. We had monthly meetings for a while until we were thoroughly organized. The plan then and now is that ever)', investment must be passed upon by this special finance committee. The investment counselor makes his recommen­dations, which go to the five members of the committee, and if a majority recom­mends the investment our secretar}', William 
J. Broderick, assistant treasurer of the Board (and comptroller of the University), imme­diately makes the investment. The same procedure is followed when any security is sold. 
The finance committee, besides a chair­man, is composed of the following men: William J. Corbett, president of the C. W. Marks Shoe Company, Chicago; John C. Tully, president of the LaGrange National Bank, LaGrange, III.; Bernard Voll, presi­dent of the Sibley Machine and Foundr)' Corp., South Bend.; Edward J. Doyle, presi­dent of the Commonwealth Edison Co., Chi­
 First row. left to right. L A. O'Shaughnessy. Rev. Thomas A. Steiner. C.S.C., Provincial. 
The Associate Board oi Lay Trustees. 

Peter C. Beilly, Fother John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president, Ernest M. Morris. John Moody, and Byron V. Kanaley. 
Second row. Terence B. Cosgrove, William J. Corbett, Sr., Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy, George W. Stroke, Hon. Frank C. Walker, Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., Charles T. Fisher. Walter Duncan, and C. Roy McCanna. 
Third row, William J. Broderick, University comptroller, Joseph A. LaFortune, John C. Tully. John P. Murphy, Bernard J. Voll, Ed­ward J. Doyle, and Rev. John I. Burke, C.S.C., University Business Manager. Not shown ore Thomas K. Beacom, Jr.. Constantine E. McGuire. and Timothy P. Galvin. 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
 cago: Thomas H. Beacom, vice-president of the First National Bank, Chicago. 

We meet about four times a year but are constantly in touch with the fund. This system is working ver)- nicely and I believe the organizational set-up is one of the best in the country. I know of no universitj' that has a better or more conser%'ative policy than that of Notre Dame. 
Wc, however, need a greater fund. It has now grown to $5,000,000 but it is very small compared to the actual needs of the University. I personally would like to see the fund grow to $25,000,000 or $30,000,­000, the income of which might approach $1,000,000 a year. This would do much in increasing the standards of the University and would also help in the much needed building program. $5,000,000 is very small . ^ compared to the endowment funds of these 
w schools: 
Har\-ard $160,000,000 Yale 123,000,000 Chicago 71,000,000 Northwestern 62,000,000 
M. I. T 48,000,000 (3,000 students) Vanderbilt .... 29,000,000 (2,000 students) DePauw 6,000,000 (1,400 students) Wabash 2,500,000 ( 500 students) 
These figures are of 1946, and since then substantial increases have been made in en­rollments and endo>vment funds. Notre Dame now has 4,800 students with facili­ties to handle 3,200, and it is apparent that our endowment fund should be at least $25,000,000 or $30,000,000. Notre Dame is fighting a great battle. She-needs every­one's help, whether Catholic or Protestant. 
The money must be raised from two sources. First, we must depend on the alumni body, which is not large for a school over a hundred years old. Most of the alumni have become such in the last ten or fifteen years and of course a great many still are young men. But everybody can give something. If it is only $10 a year it is helpful — and it should be given annu­ally. Of course most of the alumni can give very much more than this, and some are doing a splendid job while others are doing little or nothing. Perhaps it is not entirely the fault of an alumnus that he is not giWng; perhaps he has not been ap­proached and does not know how badly the Universit>- needs funds. If whatever is given could be given continuously then the school administration would know about what it could depend on for the building up of its facilities. 
The other group from whom we must receive funds are friends of the University. These friends are scattered all over the world, and in this country they are quite numerous. It is hoped that we may get the friends of the University in an annual giving program. 
A great organization is being set up all over this country under the direction of Harr>- Hogan, now president of the Alum­ni .Association. You have by this time no doubt received information on the set-up of this organization. It is hoped to keep this a continuous organization, and per­haps the annual contribution might reach $5,000,000. If so, Notre Dame will in ten years take her place among other great schools with a respectable endowment. 
I am informed that the average student actually only pays about 60 per cent of his way. The rest has to be borne by the University in some manner. This being true, it is quite evident that without a good, substantial endowment the school could well run into a deficit annually. Personally, I am hopeful that we will ob­tain our goal and that we will all reach down in our pockets to do a job for this great institution. She stands so strongly for all of the traditions of our country, our Declaration of Independence, our Con­stitution, and our free enterprise system, that it seems too bad to have her weak­ened in her endeavors by a lack of funds. This also we know—that Notre Dame will never compromise with an enemy of God. 
Fr. Powers Back in U. S. After Service in Berlin 
Rev. Maurice E. Powers, C.S.C, '33, chaplain of the Berlin Command and one of the best-known Army chaplains of World War II, has been returned to the United States for reassigimient by the .•\rmy, ac­cording to word received at Notre Dame, where he formerly served as a faculty member. 
Father Powers, a Major in the Army, prior to being assigned to Berlin in 1945 was with New York's famed lOIst Mechan­ized Cavalry, 12th Armored Division, during some of the heaviest fighting of the war. When this unit returned home, he became a Regimental Chaplain in the 36th Division for a short period before being assigned to Beriin. 
During Father Powers' assignment in Ber­lin he became well-known among the troops for his many promotional activities. Included among these were the institution of the first Catholic Mission for American troops in Germany; promotion of Christmas parties for orphans, a home for the blind and five hospitals for civilians; promotion of a li­brary for military prisoners; staging the first Field Mass ever held in Berlin on Me­morial Day in 1946; promotion of the adop­tion plan for the poor in Berlin by con­tacting churches in America to adopt war-ravaged German parishes for providing the essentials and necessities of life. 
Orphans Enloy Game 
The Kentucky Club gave' 40 Louisville youngsters the time of their lives at the Tulane game. 
The fortunate group attended the game with all expenses paid by the club. Ten 
Newly-elected chairman of the Associate Board oi Lay Trustees. E. M, Morris (right), boys were selected from each of four and vice-chairman L A. O'Shaughnessy. shown with Father Caranough. president orphanages. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
By Baymond I. DonoTon, '42, Assislaat Diracter of 
» » 
Public Infoimalioa 

ATHLETICS 
fOOTe4LL 

Coach Frank Leahy's 1947 Notre Dame football team is stamped as one of the great­est Notre Dame teams since 1930 after the Irish completed their first undefeated and untied season since the final team fielded by the late Knutc Roclcnc. 
The Blue and Gold eleven, which now 

•boasts a record of 18 undefeated games dur­ing the past two years, climaxed their sec­ond consecutive national championship cam­paign with a convincing 38 to 7 victor)' over previously undefeated Southern Cali­fornia, playing their greatest game before a record crowd of 104,000 in the Los Angeles iseum. 
Many columnists and sports writers pro­claimed the 1947 Irish gridders one of the truly great teams in the history of football after watching the Notre Dame powerhouse roll in the second half after maintaining only a slim 10 to 7 margin at half time. A 92-yard run by Left Halfback Bob Living­stone and a 76-yard gallop by Right Half Emil Sitko are features of the game that will long be remembered by the huge crowd electrified by the manner in which the Irish romped over a team that had been rated the No. 3 eleven in the nation. 
Much has been written and said about the prowess and greatness of the 1947 Notre Dame eleven, but one of the greatest trib­utes that can be paid the squad is Coach Frank Leahy's statement that "they are all .•Ml-.\merican boys." And this statement is 
'"ZZ: 50 7P ^9 

accepted by a great number of so-called ex­perts, which is shown by the fact that no less than seven regulars on the Irish squad have been named to one or another AU-American team. 
.And climaxing the individual awards to Notre Dame players, Johnny Lujack, who closed out his Notre Dame career as one of the finest all-around athletes ever to attend Notre Dame, was chosen by the New York football writers as the outstanding football player of the year and was awarded the Heisman trophy s)-mbolic of this honor. Lu­jack's nomination marks the second Notre Dame quarterback in four years who has received this national award. Angelo Ber­telli, whom Lujack understudied in 1943, received the award in 1943. 
Numerous games stand out during the Notre Dame undefeated 1947 march. Many critics wondered "what was the matter with the Irish" when they had a hard time get­ting started against Pittsburgh, but finally got rolling in the second half to emerge with a 40 to 7 triimiph. They wondered even further when Purdue's surprising Boilermakers held the Notre Dame charges to a 22 to 7 decision at Lafayette in the second game of the season. 
After the touchdoivn scored against the Irish by Purdue, however, the defensive stal­warts of the Notre Dame squad proved to be mighty stubborn and the Irish marched through three consecutive triumphs by hold­ing their opponents scoreless. These wins included a 31 to 0 \nctor>- over Nebraska, 
 35 8^ qi 7 ^ 
^.7^285.33 .47^38 ^73 .IF ^ .32 ;0 ^9 
.^;^^ 
• • "^ ­

S3 le 21 74 S4 q? m 4S IP S7 30 3d ^4 
21 to 0 over Iowa and 27. to 0 over the 
Middies from Navy. 
Then, in the game which all alumni and Notre Dame fans had been waiting for, the Irish gained plentiful revenge for 59 to 0 and 48 to 0 humiliations suffered during the war, by starting with the opening kick­off and marching to a 27 to 7 triumph over Army. Terry Brennan took the opening kickoff and scampered down the sidelines 95 yards for a touchdown and the Notre Dame squad never let up until the Cadets had been thoroughly trounced. 
A natural letdown followed the Army game, and Notre Dame stock suffered a > downfall when an underdog Northwestern eleven threw a scare into the Irish camp by holding Notre Dame to a one-touchdown 26 to 19 victory in the rain at Dyche Sta­dium in Evanston. 
After the Irish had slipped in national ratings to the No. 2 position after the nar­row escape at Northwestern, they promptly overtook Michigan in the ratings the fol­lowing week by running roughshod over a hapless eleven of Tulane gridders with a convincing 39 to 6 triumph in a game in which Assistant Coach Ed Krause was in charge due to the absence of Coach Frank Leahy, who was on the west coast scouting Southern California in their game against UCLA. 
The Irish, faced with the prospect of trimming Southern California in order to remain on top nationally, did just that and £ 
1

FBONT BOW (left to right): Budynkiewicz, Ashbaugh, Statuto. Signaigo. Urban. SiBUnens. Copt Connor. Waybright, Martio. Ponelli. Smith. Luiock, Sullivan. SECOND BOW: T. Brennan. Spaniel. Eosikowiki. Balwig. Framplon. Gaul. WaUh. Wendell. Grothous. 
- Gomperm. Dailer. Zmijewski. TKBD BOW: Sirohmeyer, Fischer, Oracko, Hart, Tripueko, VHgb&m.' Begley, Livingstone, Clott Lolly, Espenon, LeCluyse. FODBTH BOW: Swisiowicz, Johnson, bCchaels. Hudok, Silko. McGaa. Coulra. McGehee. J. Brennan. Eorley. Skall. Czarobsld, CifellL TOP BOW: Leo Costello, ossodate monager. and Lorry Byan. sanier manogar. 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
.'• • . » >
" 1 , • [ 
"' j^ f= 
•^ c 

(JP Emil Sitko scampers out of the reach of Army's Lutm, who trips T-Moster Lujack gallops pent Pmdne'a Feldkiidiar for a long teammate Trent (80) with his futile maneuver. gain. Wendell (58) and Fischer (72) iorm Ids rear guard. 
with ease to clinch their second successive of the squad until Coach Ed Krause was Coach Krause's starting lineup at the be­national championship. relieved of his duties as assistant football ginning of the season, which is expected to The end of the 1947 season marked the coach, opened the season with a convincing remain virtually unchanged throughout the conclusion of Notre Dame gridiron careers 66 to 49 triumph over a good Indiana State season, included Leo Bamhorst, Indianap­of several stars who have done. much to quintet. In the second game of the season, olis, and John (Buster) Killer, East Bem­make this era of Notre Dame football go however, Notre Dame staged a great rally stadt, Ky., at forwards; John Breiman, Bed­down in the records as one of the greatest. in the closing minutes of the game, only to ford, Ind., at center, and Paul Gordon, of 
Among them arc Lujack, Tackle Ziggic drop a 40 to 38 decision to Illinois at Baltimore, and Kevin O'Shea, San Fran­Czarobski, Capt. George Connor, Left Half­Champaign. cisco, at guards. back Bob Livingstone, Tackle George Sulli­
Absent from the 1947-48 Notre Dame van, Tackle Gasper Urban and halfback and 
Bamhorst, Brennan, Gordon and O'Shea 
hardwood schedule were the customary early place-kicking expert Freddie Earley. were monogram winners on last year's 
season "breathers" and the Irish were faced 
squad, while Killer won his monogram in The Dr. Henry L. Williams trophy, 
with the prospect of moving from Cham­
1941 before entering the service. Twp.other 
awarded by the University of Minnesota 
paign to face such perennially outstanding 
1946-47 monogram winners, forward Jim "M" club annually to the team topping the 
teams as Northwestern^ Denver and Kansas 
O'Halloran, of Chicago, and Center John final Associated Press football poll, finally before the Christmas holidays. 
Foley, of Worcester, Mass., also are in the •^^P was headed for Notre Dame, which won Opening the new year are t^vo double-thick of the battle for starting berths and permanent possession by topping the voting header programs involving Notre Dame in should see plenty of action throughout the for the third year. 
the Butler Field House in Indianapolis. On season. 
The Irish won two legs on the trophy in 

Jan. 1, Notre Dame faces Indiana and Pur­
1943 and 1946 by being voted top choice 
due tackles Butler, while the Jan. 2 card The complete schedule: of the nation's sports writers. Vernal (Babe) 
pits the Irish against Purdue and Butler Levoir, former Minnesota football star and Dec. 6—Indiana State College at Notre Dame 
against Indiana. 
current president of the "M" club, has con­" 8—Univexsity of Illinois at Champaign, 01. The schedule gradually builds up to the " 13—^i^orthwestem Univenity at Chicago Stadium 
tacted Notre Dame officials to arrange for a Notre Dame-Kentucky game to be played " 20—Denver University at Dernvr date and place for the formal presentation. 
" 23—University of Kansas at Lawrence, Kansas 
in the Notre Dame Gym on Feb. 2 in 
The Dr. Williams trophy was established what is expected to be the "game of the 

Jan. 1—Indiana Uiuversity | Double Header at year" in collegiate basketball circles. The " 2—Purdue University ) Indianapolis, Ind. 
in 1940 after Minnesota's gridiron team won 
permanent possession of the Knute Rockne Irish still are smarting under the 60 to 30 " 5—Georgetown Univexsity at Notre Dame 
trophy, set up in honor of Notre Dame's fa­" 7—Butler University at Notre Dame 
trouncing suffered last year in Louisville at 
mous coach. " 12—DePaul University at Notre Dame 
the hands of the Wildcats and are out to 
" 17—St. Louis UniiTrsity at St. Louis, Mo. 
Army also had tvvo legs on the trophy, 

even a few scores in this year's game. • " 24—^Northwestern Uni\*ersity at Chicago Stadium 
topping the poll in 1944 and 1945. 
A feature of this season's twenty-four-
Feb. 2—Kentucky Uiuversity at Notre Dame 
game schedule is the extended eastern swing 
" 4—^Butler University at Indianapolis 
BASHETBALl 

which will be made by the Notre Dame " 5—Detroit University at Detroit 
Notre Dame's all-Irish basketball team, cagers near the end of the season. The Irish " 9—St. Louis University at Notre Dame " 14—DeFaul University at Chicago Stadiiml 
touted in pre-season rating as one of the will meet Earl Brown's Canisius five in Buf­
" 17—Mich. State College at E. Lansing, ICdi. 
nation's powerhouses, is in the midst of one falo, N. y., on Feb. 28, then will move to 
" 24—Michigan Sute College at Notre Dame / & of the toughest schedules in the history of New York City where they will meet New " 23—Marquette University at Notre Dame the sport at Notre Dame after splitting even York University in Madison Square Garden " 28—Canisius University at Buffalo, New York in a pair of opening games. on March 1, and will end the eastern tour 
Mar. 1—New Yoric U. at Maifison Square Garden 
The Irish, under the direction of Assist­in Philadelphia on March 3 against the 
" 3—^Universty of Feimsylvania at Fluladelpbia ant Coach Tom Brennan who was in charge University of Pennsylvania. " 6—Marquette University at Ilfilwaukee, Wis. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Notre Dame Foundation-First Year 
60 Governors, 160 Chairmen Already Appointed; Enrollment of Non-Graduate Students Stepped Up 
Because it has not been a full year — ac­tually the'• Foundation was established on July 25-26, 1947 — there is only a partial report possible. 
But that part is most encouraging. 
In the five subsequent months, 60 Gov­ernors have been appointed, and have ac­cepted, in all of the 48 States, the District of Columbia, Notre Dame, and 10 foreign countries. 
Much more vital to the progress of the Foundation in its working phases is the ap­pointment, and acceptance, of more than 160 City Chairmen, and the present prog­ress in the appointment of the Citj' Commit­tees to work with them in the program of the Foundation. In a fifth of the cities with Chairmen, these Committees are completely organized, and many members have been appointed to Committees forming in other cities. 
Most encouraging to the future of the Foundation is the early achievement of the alumni. 
Until this year, the .Alumni .Association program was limited by physical facilities primarily to graduates, with a small per­centage of non-graduate former students elected to membership. .At the beginning of 1947 there were approximately 11,000 la>Tnen on this list, who were asked to con­tribute to the Fifth .Annual .Alumni Fund and — after July — the new, inclusive Foun­dation. -At this writing there are just under 8,000 contributors — an unprecedented and stimulating average of over 70 per cent. (In comparative alumni giving figures from other schools, Dartmouth's 66 per cent has loomed heroic, and 33 per cent is the ap­proximate national average response.) 
New N. D. Former Student Program 
As the first and long-awaited develop­ment of the new Alumni and Foundation piDgram, the non-graduate former students are being invited to join the Alumni Asso­ciation. Whereas they have always been welcomed and constitutionally eligible, the 

•initiative has had to be on their side. Now, the local clubs and the Foundation ofificers and workers are extending a nation-wide in­vitation to them. The move is not simply an expedient one to increase the field of contributors. It is the first time that the Alumni Association has enjoyed facilities sufiicient to permit this wholesale acceptance of new membership with the clerical, rec­ords, mailing, and other factors involved. 
This inclusion of non-graduate former students practically doubles the .Alunmi As­sociation membership potential — with more than 25,000 Notre Dame men on record. 
Clubs Show Fine Beeords 

Very significant in the 1947 Foundation program has been the high percentage of contributions reflected in many of the Local Clubs. The St. Joseph Valley and Chicago, with more than a thousand alumni on their regular mailing list, show a better than 65 percent participation in national contribu­tion, very high for so large a list. Other Clubs, most of them active, close-knit and showing the \'alue of personal contact, stand out as follows: 
-Allentown-Bethlehem  90%  
Hartford,  Conn  82  
Fort  Wa>'ne  80  
Madison,  Wis  87  
LaCrosse, Wis  86  
Baltimore  91  
Indianapolis  80  
Buffalo  81  
Erie  82  
Evansville  89  

Club Solicitation Programs 

Even in this first year some Clubs, notably the large ones of the St. Joseph Valley and Indianapolis, have instituted personal solici­tation through cards distributed among com­mittees of Club workers, involving personal report by the worker on the cards given to him. Even with the handicap of being year-end, clean-up programs, these personal solicitations have proved to be the most effective method not only of securing finan­cial support, but also of stimulating Club interest of members, and general contact and acquaintance among members. 
The Clubs have been particularly coopera­tive since the conviction has become uni­versal that the Foundation is not an inter­fering agency for alumni activity, but an integral part of it, and a positive stimulus. One Club President wrote to President Harry Hogan expressing that very thought, that the two primary fears he had were that the Foundation would take over the Alumni Association, and that alumni activ­ity was to be subordinated completely to money-raising. As the program developed, and he saw, as is clear now to all, that the Foundation's primary purpose is reaching the thousands of non-alumni friends of Notre Dame, but through alumni, and that the Foundation program has given the Clubs and the Alumni .Association a solid peg on which more and more general activ­ity and interest is being hung, enthusiasm has been rising in a sharp curve. 
1948 Alumni Directory Planned ^ 

In view of the very helpful revision of alumni records through the programs of personal solicitation, the Foundation and the .Alumni Association are planning to is­sue in 1948 a complete Post-War Alumni Directory. 
With the cooperation of alumni every­where, this Directory will indicate the name, class, address, business affiliation and ad­dress, of each alumnus. The Directory will be cross-indexed for convenient and useful reference in the major alphabetical, class and geographical listings. 
Foimdation Acceptance Universal 

During 1947, the entire Board of Gov­ernors of the Foundation was convened, in three separate meetings of the Executive, Organization and Finance Committees. The Board of Directors of the Alumni Associa-£'-^ tion met twice during the critical periods of organization. The Associate Board of Lay Trustees has had the Foundation pre­sented to it for counseling. A general meet­ing of the University faculty discussed it thoroughly. And latest, perhaps most sig­nificant, group to consider the new program is the Council of Local Club Presidents, whose deliberation and conclusions are treated fully in this issue of the ALBMNUS. 
The universal accord extended by all these groups to the Foundation program is the most eloquent testimony to its soundness. The American City Bureau, employed in an advisory capacity from August 4 to No­vember 22, found no fault in the original organization program and helped in estab­lishing the mechanics of the Foundation. The new offices of the combined Alumni Association, Foundation and Public Informa­tion departments in the former Carroll Study Hall are among the most modem at the University. 
The participation in the 1947 Fifth An­nual Fund, and its extension into the Foun­dation program, by the all-time high of Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
some 8,000 alumni, completes the universal seal of approval by Notre Dame men and by the friends of the University. 
1947 Piogrom One of Faith 

Because of the short space of time permitted, and because of the University's program urgency, the 1947 Foundation program has been one largely of faith. . 
Support and understanding have been asked largely on the strength of the University's expressed desire to meet its immediate opportunities. There have been few blueprints or exhaustive treatises. 
In 1948—Works 
In 1948, the Founda­tion program will ap­proach nearer the status of works. The central of­fice is organized. The headquarters staff is more familiar with the proce­dures. Policies are rap­idly shaping up to fit the new outlook. 
The - University, en­couraged by the response to its problems, is detail­ng its pattern for prog­ress so that it can be 
An oriist's sketch oi the new Foundation and Alumni offices. A pho­tograph ol the office appears on page 7. 

presented to alumni and friends in its impressive and proper pro­portions. 
The Foundation program is not one that involves new or startling procedures. The Aliunni Fund has since 1941 established the principle of alumni giving, substantially and in encouraging numbers. 
The Public Relations Department has established in six years of 
operation that a number of non-alumni, acquainted with the Uni­
versity and sympathetic to its program and purposes, will give gen­erously - to implement those purposes. 
But to achieve its in­dicated destiny and to meet challenges that must be met today if they arc to enlighten tomorrow, the present plane of progress must be raised substantially an d th e speed of the development must be accelerated rap­idly. 
The problem, then, is simplified, in effect, to making $5 grow where $1 grew in 1946 and 1947. In 1946, for ex­ample, exclusive of two gifts of $100,000 each, alumni and friends con­tributed just over $400,­000 to Notre Dame. 
It is estimated now that to realize its urgent building needs and to offset its lack of capital endowment, the Univer­sity should, in the next 
{Continued on page 38'] 
The Nolrie Dame Alumnus 

A steady roar thundered from the stands as Fred Earley trotted across the gridiron 
to kick the extra point after Terr)- Brcnnan's 97-yard run to a touchdown in the opening seconds of the Army game. "I never before heard such a tremendous volume of noise from a football crowd," said Fred. 
The 59,171 massed around the field had reason to shout. Just as the climax of the longest intersectional football rivalr>- came in the first game, when a little-known team forward-passed .-Vrmy to a stunning 35-13 defeat, so the climax of the game that ended the scries came in the first 20 seconds. 
The swirling excitement that came to a focus in those few seconds had been mounting for a long time. It was appar­ent in the newspaper reports, in the scramble for tickets, and in street comer discussions. It was apparent at the Chi­cago Club Bally in the Stevens Hotel, at the SL Joe Valley Club celebration in the Indiana Club, and at the rousing student pep-rally in the iieldhouse. But most of all it was evident in the ani­mated faces and actions of the thou­sands who swarmed on the campus be­fore the game. 
More than 7,000 alumni from ever>- state, .•Maska, Mexico, and the Philippines — the largest number ever to gather at. Notre Dame — greeted classmates and old profes­sors. The annual open-house of the Law School, at which a comparative few were expected, was swamped in a crush of re­turning law grads. Parents and friends of students crowded the residence halls. Strang­ers setting foot on the campus for the first-time visited the Art Galler}- and the Rockne Memorial. 
This was the day. The intangible some­thing that had made the Notre Dame-Army game the greatest sports spectacle year after year, that had set blase New York on its ear for decades, was as evident in South Bend as it was in New York. 
It was a great football game, and the people packed in the stands, the larg­est crowd ever to see a game in the stadium, saw spectacular football and bone-crushing power. A power-laden Irish eleven exploded a crashing force that breached the Army line for the backs, ond then supported them with murderous downHeld blocking. The team quickly proved that Brennan's touch­down run was no acddenL A few min­utes loter the Irish moved 80 yards for a touchdown in 13 plays. And when Army scored in the fourth quarter Notre Dame roared right back with another 80-yaid drive for o touchdown, this time in 11 plays. 
For sheer color it could not be matched. Snow flurries fell, and the wind blew raw 
^/te Cnd 

and cold, but enthusiasm stayed at a hi ^ pitch. The senior class of the Cadet Ciorps displayed their precision drilling, and the Notre Dame band played and marched with its usual finesse. The "Victory March" was in the air, and "On Brave Old Army Team," and at half-tinie the band greeted the Kaydets with the Army emblem. It was an oval panorama of emotions and ex­citement, of deafening noise and triumph. The memory of bitter defeats was there, but it was washed away in the surge of green over the goal line. 
The great and the near-great were scat­tered among the crowd. Movie stars, busi­ness executives, sports notables, political figures, and Army brass had converged on Notre Dame to sec the final act of the 
Atop the stadium, in the country's largest press box, representatives of 106 newspapers and six press services took up every available seat. Eleven direct broadcasts vrere on the oxr, and two televised broadcasts. It was the largest press coverage ever given a game in the stadium, and Western Union was all but inundated by the flood of copy that went out. 
After the game trafiic was dense on the roads from the stadium, and in South Bend streets cars were bumper-to-bumper. The people spilled into a South Bend that had long been accustomed to football crowds, but never anything like this. The spectators had come from every point of the country, and ver>' few tickets had gone to South Bend residents. Everybody jammed into restaurants seeking meals; it was a long, tiresome wait. South Bend simply could not absorb a multitude equal to almost half its population. 
On the campus the students had as their guests many of the 300 senior Kaydets who 
• had attended the game. They ate in the dining hall %vith the students and later at­tended the Victory Dance in the Navy Drill Hall with dates from St. Mary's. For the first time in the 34-year series the students of the two schools got to know each other, and both liked what they saw. 
Finding bed space was a ealch-aa­catch-can proposition. AU hotel rooms had long since been reserved. Although private homes, motor courts, cmd tomist homes absorbed many more, only oboni 2J)00 found sleeping accommedatioiis in South Bend. The first ol 35,000 rasarra­tion requests storied pouring iaio hotds immediately ofter the announcnnant 
0^ G4t&^a 
thot the game would be played at Noire Dome; the three lorgest hotels hove only 1,100 rooms. Even the Army team wos unable to obtain reservations in South Bend and hod to stay ot Lake Wowosee. Ind. Some of the fans foimd rooms in Niles, Michu and many hod to go as far OS Elkhart and Chicago. 
There was revelry in South Bend that Saturday night. The "Victory March" echoed _ in taverns and hotel bars, at class reunions and other alumni gatherings, at victory dances on the campus and down-. town, and at parties in private homes and ' at the country clubs. 
Everyone seemed to regret that Notre Dame and Army had come to the parting of the way. To the man who had started the series 34 years ago the termination of the rivalry was more disappointing than to most. Jesse C. Harper, coach and athletic director in 1913, had written routine letters to West Point and a great many other schoob for games. He was surprised and • delighted when West Point replied that it had an open date which Notre Dame could fiU. 
"It tokes years to build up such a magnificent rivalry," Harper commented sadly ofter the lost gome. "I am deeply disappointed that Army and Notre Dome hove decided to coll it quits after 34 years. This gome, I thought, hod grown m to be a national institution in college ^ football ond I know countless thousands of others oil over the country share my genuine regret that this gome ended it oIL" 
There was the prospect, however, that the series would be resumed sometime in the future. Army's Coach Earl Blaik said that "anyone who says that the Army-Notre Dame game will never come back is crazy. He simply doesn't know." 
BinXETIN 

New directors of the Alumni Asso­ciation ore Joseph M. Bolond, '27, South Bend; Bev. lucent P. Brennon, '32. Pittsburgh; Arthur D. Cronin, '37. Detroit and Leo B. Word. '20, Los An­geles. They were chosen in the re­cent election and will take office Jon. 
1. A fuller story about them will appear in the next issue of the AIOMNUS. 
imvm M 

The new mayors oi Mishawaka and South Bend, Earl Spencer Walton. '35. left, ond Geecga A. Sdeck. 'II, eoagtatnlato Mid edwr on election night. At right is Al Feeney. '14. who was elected moyw oi IndtoBapolia. 
Three ND Graduates Win Mayor Elections 
Feeney, Schock and Walton nnayors-elect of Indianapolis, South Bend and Mishawaka 
Three Indiana cities will have Notre Dame graduates in the chief executive's chair in January. Al Feeney, '14, football center and classmate and teammate of Knute Rockne, was elected Mayor of In­dianapolis last November; George A. Schock, '18, Mayor of South Bend; and Earl Spencer Walton, '35, Mayor of Mishawaka. 
Al Feeney, who has long been active in Indiana politics, conducted a one-man cam­paign in the mayoralty election. Although speaking two and three times a day during the last weeks of the campaign, he had no publicity man, writing his own speeches and radio scripts. 
He was head of the state police, and in 1933 organized the state Board of Public Safety, becoming its first director. While head of the state police he won the United States Flag Association's national award for law enforcement. 
He was twice a successful candidate for sheriff of Marion County (Indianapolis), in 1938 and 1940. In both elections he was the leading man on the ticket. During the war he was director of safety for the P. R. Mallory Co. and a member of the Marion County Welfare Board. 
Al, who is unmarried, was the first "rov­ing center" and played in every minute of ever)- Notre Dame game through 1912 and 1913. After leaving Notre Dame he played professional football and coached. At pres­ent he lives with his mother and sister. 

The Indianapolis Star said editorially: "The election of Al Feeney as mayor of Indianapolis is a tribute to his great per­sonal popularity and his wide reputation for integrity in public office. Although the Star opposed Al Feeney in his race for chief executive of the city, it also knows that In­dianapolis will have honest and vigorous direction in the City Hall for the next four years under his leadership." 
.Although Al disavows any interest in state or national affairs, he is already being men­tioned as a potential candidate for the gov­ernorship. 
E. Spencer Walton, a lifelong resident of Mishawaka and business manager of the Notre Dame Lawyer while a student, en­tered law practice in 1936. From 1937 to 1938 he was deputy county prosecutor, and city attorney from 1939 to 1941. 
He enlisted in the Navy in 1944, serving as a lieutenant (junior grade) on the de­stroyer U. S. S. Gurke in the South Pacific; Discharged in 1946, he was an unsuccessful candidate for the Democratic nomination for congressman that year. Married and 
the father of two daughters, he is third dis­trict commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. 
George Schock, who attended Miami Uni­versity in Oxford, Ohio, was a ne«rq>aper­man before entering the Notre Dame Law School. He served as night city editor of the South Bend News-Times and city editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
He was assistant prosecuting attorney from 1919 to 1920, president of the Board of Public Works in 1932 and 1933, and city judge from 1938 to 1942. 
Fraacfs Kervick Efecfwd To Royal Soeiefy of Arts 
Francis W. Kervick, Head of the De­partment of Architecture at Notre Dame, has been elected a fellow of the Royal So­ciety of Arts in London, England. 
Mr. Kervick was elected to the Society, which was founded in 1754 and is under the patronage of the King of England, in rec­ognition of his outstanding work in archi­tecture. Me'mbership in the Society is awarded to outstanding artists in sculpture, architecture, painting, and allied fields. . 
Photographs of various works by Mr. Kervick recently were shown at the inter­national exhibit in London. S<Hne oS his woAs now are in the permanent ccdlection o^_ the Royal Institute of Architecture in London. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Institute Carries on Studies of Tradition of Christian Culture 

Last year the University of Notre Dame established on its campus, an institute for higher studies and research known as the Mediaeval Institute. 
In spite of its rather awesome name, the Mediaeval Institute has a ver)- simple and straightfonvard purpose. 
It aims to make a thorough study, ac­cording to the best modern methods, of the long tradition of Christian culture which is still, consciously or unconsciously, the vital factor in the day-to-day living of thousands, nay, millions of good Catholics. 
The clearest expression and the most virile embodiment of that tradition to be found in histor>-, occur during the Middle Ages. Tliat is- why they afford the most promising field for investigating the roots of Catholic thinking and Catholic living. 
The Faith which Christ delivered to His Church has shaped and formed western civ­ilization through long ages of prayer, study and work. We Americans belong to that civilization. It is the inheritance which our forefathers brought with them from their European homelands. 
Much of Spiritual Legacy Lost 

Although the world at large (our coun­tr>-, too) has lost a great deal of that which gave \'igor and strength to that legacy of Christian thought and life, nevertheless, the cultural capital upon which we live is the spiritual and intellectual wealth of that in­heritance, amassed through centuries of Catholic thinking and Catholic living. But, we have been living on our capital for gen­erations. In Europe, that capital seems well nigh exhausted. Here in America, lies the hope, perhaps the only hope, of retrieving our losses. 
To rebuild and increase that capital, to restore vitalit>' and power to those Chris­tian traditions of living and thinking, to re­capture that culture and adapt it to the needs of our own age and to protect it against false and subtle ideologies, foreign and hostile to its ver)- spirit, a thorough, painstaking and laborious effort is required. We need to achieve a clearer understanding and a deeper appreciation of the treasures of knowledge we have inherited from the Christian past and of the rich principles of humane Catholic li\'ing to which we have fallen heirs. 
Notre Dame is prepared to make that ef­fort. From the ver)' beginning, when Father Sorin came with his companions to this country to preach the gospel and to establish a college, the twofold purpose of 
Father Pbelan. head oi the Media«Tcd bsiitnte. conien with three graduate stu­dents, Sylvester Theisen. Richmond. Mnn., Bernard Gendreau. Samia. Ontario, and Patrick Mclnnis, St Peter's Boy. P.E.L. in his office in the main library. 
Why the Mediaeval Institute? 
By BEV. GEBALD B. PHELAN. PHJ>. Director ol the Mediaevol Institute UniTersity of Notre Dome 
the Fathers of the Holy Cross has been to promote true Catholic learning. Notre Dame has been faithful to its trust. It has trained generations of Catholic youth in the practice of their religion and in liberal and professional studies. It is now ready to carr)- on that same task on still higher levels. 
Over the years, Notre Dame has devel­oped and expanded its material equipment and it has broadened its range of scientific research, while preser\'ing all the while and steadily deepening its religious and spiritual life. Growth is a sign of vitality, and Notre Dame has grown uninterruptedly. Now the time is ripe for her to launch forth into a new and highly appropriate endeavor. The results which may be confidently expected from this fresh venture will crown the prog­ress which Notre Dame has made over gen­erations of sustained and fruitful effort. 
Center for Catholic Scholarship 

To become the center of the most highly developed Catholic scholarship seems to have been inscribed in the destiny of this venerable institution from the days when the courage, vision and holy daring of its founder. Father Sorin, first envisaged the establishment of a great center of Catholic learning and culture in this country. To­day that courage and that vision are fully justified in the creation of the Mediaeval Institute. 
No mere antiquarian curiosity or archx­Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
ological interest prompted the establishment  
of this center of research. Quite the con­ 
trary, its concerns are eminently contem­ 
porary. It proposes to bend all its efforts  
to unearthing, interpreting and rendering  
available to this twentieth centur)-, accurate  
information about the Ages of Faith: to  
reach a precise understanding of the thought  ».  
which guided the development of Catholic  ^  
culture in the Middle Ages and the mo­ 
tives which gave direction to the lives of  
mediaeval men: to gain a thorough knowl­ 
edge of the institutions, which grew up in  
those ages of Catholic civilization; to acquire  
a just and accurate appreciation of their art,  
and of the culture which they fostered. In  
a word, to discover and trace the workings  
of lofty human purposes, guided by Chris­ 
tian ideals, through all the aspects and  
phases of a basically Catholic civilization  
and to translate the underlying principles of  
that Christian culture into the language of  
contemporary men, in order thereby to bring  
its influence to bear upon the personal prob­ 
lems of present-day Catholic living and upon  
the broader social, economic and political  
problems which confront nations and  
peoples the wide world over.  
To achieve this purpose the Mediaeval  
Institute must build up an organized body  
of highly trained and specialized scholars,  j A  
each and all inspired with enthusiasm for  
the legacy of Christian learning and culture,  
which is the heritage of the western world.  

each and all working in close cooperation 

P with one another to make a complete in­ventory of its treasures, to separate what is permanent and essential from what is ephemeral and accessory, to form a fair and just estimate of all that it contains, assessing its failures as well as its successes, and to make available to the men of our day the abiding truths and values it enshrines. 
Scholars of various types will be required to carry on the sort of study and research which the Mediaeval Institute proposes to do when it is fully established and running. Theologians will be needed as well as phil­osophers, both highly trained in the history of their subjects. Historians must be there. Experts in Roman and Mediaeval Canon and Civil Law, Liturgical scholars, special­ists in Palaeography, Mediaeval Latin and Early Vernacular Languages and Litera­tures, authorities on Mediaeval Art and 

B Archaeology, Mediaeval Science and Medi­cine, Mediaeval Jewish, .\rabian and Byzan­tine cultures—all will be needed to accom­plish the task which the Mediaeval Institute has undertaken. 
To supply these scholars with the tools to do their job, special library equipment must be provided. Large and expensive col­lections of source materials containing the records of mediaeval life and the writings of mediaeval masters are essential for the work of research. 
Material Still Extant 

Much of the material needed for the study of the Middle Ages is still extant only in unpublished manuscripts hundreds of years old. It has been estimated by one of the great mediaeval scholars of the day that the quantity of such manuscript material 
^ now stored in the vaults of the great libra­
" ries of Europe or in State and public ar­chives or in the hands of private individuals is so vast that it will take generations to get it catalogued and, at least two hundred years to have it published. Meanwhile, much of this material is available to scholars by means of modem methods of photography, photostat and micro-film reproductions. These are the tools with which the work­ers must be supplied. 
The members of the staff of the Institute will have a threefold task to perform: a) to edit and publish previously unprinted texts of mediaeval works and to prepare critical editions of works already in print, but only in editions which are defective and unsatis­factory or inadequate for scholarly purposes; 
b)
 to prepare and publish critical studies, articles, monographs and books on subjects lying within their respective competences; 

c)
 to train young scholars in the disciplines and methods of scholarly research and scien­


^ tific historical study of the Middle Ages so that they, in turn, may be prepared to carry on their own personal investigations and to train others in mediaeval scholarship. 
Students will be admitted to the Institute' to work under the direction of the members of the staff, and, on the completion of their studies, they will receive a Diploma from the Mediaeval Institute. 
Only graduate students, adequately pre­pared to enter upon advanced study in the field of mediaeval research Will be accepted, but there will be nothing to prevent those students from preparing themselves for the M.-'X. and Ph.D. degrees in the Graduate School of the University simultaneously with their training in the Mediaeval Institute. The time required for a student to complete his course of studies at the Mediaeval In­stitute and to qualify for a Diploma extends over five full academic years. 
Special Training for Students 

Students admitted to the Institute will re­ceive a broad training in the whole range of mediaeval studies, but each one will be especially trained in one or other branch, 
e.g. Theology, Philosophy, Liturgy, Medi­aeval Literature, etc. Having completed his training at the Mediaeval Institute, the young scholar will be fitted to take his place in the world of scholarship and to accept a position on the staff of any university or institution of learning in the country. 
The Mediaeval Institute thus aims not only to become the center of mediaeval scholarship in the United States, to which men learned in the lore of the Middle Ages may address themselves for expert informa­tion and counsel, but also a center from which highly trained young scholars will go out to promote the traditional Christian cul­ture of the western world in places where it is perhaps, misunderstood, or at least, not adequately appreciated. 
Need for Scholaisliips 

Scholarships must be established to enable young persons, who are adequately prepared to undertake a course of studies at the In­stitute, but who lack financial resources, to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the Mediaeval Institute. The best stu­dents from Catholic colleges and universities across the whole country would be attracted by the prospect of pursuing higher studies under the direction of the staff of the In­stitute, were they justified in hoping that it would prove financially possible. Moreover, through the establishment of desirable schol­arships, the Institute would be in a position to make a careful selection among candid-dates for admission to its courses and build up an elite of young scholars devoted to the restoration of Christian culture in this coun­try the like of which could not be found any\vhere in these United States. 
Those especially interested in the work of the Institute are invited to address the di­rector at Notre Dame in order to obtain further information. 
Edgar Kobak Efecfvd Science Council Heocf 
EDGAR KOBAK, ex-'08, of New York City, president of the Mutual Broadcasting System, has been elected chairman of the Advisory Council for Scienje and Engineer­ing at the University of Notre Dame. 
In the chairmanship, he succeeds Harold Vance, Chairman of the Board of the Stu­debaker Corporation. Bradley Dewey, presi­dent of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Company, Cambridge, Mass., was elected vice-chairman of the cotmcil. 
Latest appointment to the I6-man cotm­cil was that of Oliver Smalley, president of the Meehanite Metal Corporation in New Rochelle, N. Y., and one of the leading metal experts of the world. 
The council reviews scientific and engi­neering research conducted at Notre Dame and advises the University regarding this and proposed new research. 
Fr. Bridensfine Assigned To Honshu Island Post 
Chaplain (Major) Francis D. Bridenstine, c.s.c, of 4681 West Outer Drive, Detroit, Michigan, has recently been assigned to the Chaplain's Section, Headquarters IX Corps, located in Sendai, a city of 220,000 popula­tion on Northern Honshu island, Japan. 
Formerly an instructor at Notre Dame, and the University of Portland, Portland, Oregon, Father Bridenstine entered the army on April 5, 1942. On his first tour of overseas duty he served with the 7th In-
FATHEB BBIDENSTINE 

fantry Division .Artillery at Attn, Kwajalein, Leyte, Okinawa, Korea, and returned to the United States in December, 1945. His sec­ond tour of overseas duty brought him to Japan, where he was immediately assigned to the IX Corps Headquarters. He is holder of the Bronze Star, which he received for outstanding work on Leyte, the Philippine Liberation Ribbon, and the Pacific Theatre 
Ribbon with four battle stars and one> arrowhead. 
The Notre Dcnne Alumnus 

The \tudents joday 
Vnth the televising of home games this Year new equipment was added to the press box. Above is shown the standard wore antenna (left) and the television reflector, which send out the pictorial broadcasts. 
Irrepressible Ziggy 
Ziggy Czarobski, the Fighting Irish's ebul­lient tackle, has become something of a legend on the campus. Stories of and by the Chicagoan are legion. One of the most widely quoted is his description of the 1946 .Army game, which was notable foi^he hold­ing of Davis and Blanchard in close check all afternoon. Said the terse Czarobski: Mr. Outside and Mr. Inside spent the after­noon on their backsides. 
When the Irish invaded Pittsburgh this year a movie was being world-premiered ivith all the usual trimmings. While the team was having breakfast in the William Penn Hotel, Zigg)' slipped away and re­turned a few minutes later with two women and a man in tow, whom he introduced as Liz, Cec, and Hedda. The trio turned out to be Lizabeth Scott, Cecil B. DeMille, and Hedda Hopper. Ziggy explained he had invited them in for a cup of coffee as a neighborly gesture. 
Ziggy, who is nothing if not an oppor­tunist, obtained Miss Scott's address and an exchange of letters followed. After the Southern Caf shellacking Zigg>-, of course, was squiring "Liz" around Los .\ngeles. 
Ziggy has a plethora of nicknames, the most common of which is "the Alderman." Coach Leahy added to his growing list of cognomens when he started calling him "Senator." Ziggy accepted the promotion with his characteristic aplomb. He has po­litical aspirations and is not hesitant about proclaiming them. Although first-string tackle on the national-champion teams of '43, '46, and '47, he insists he will not play pro ball. "Pro ball is work," he says. "I'm going to be a Chicago politician. That's for me, chum." 
Humiliation. Inc. 
The Schmoes were smeared by the Fatas on the train during the student trip to the Navy game. It wasn't a football game held in the aisles, but the traditional initiation of fledgling band members. 
The neophyte Schmoes were garbed in dungarees and T-shirts, lipsticked on the forehead, and placarded on the back with the indi\'idual's name, address, girl-friend (with measurements), and the girl-friend's pet name for the Schmoe. After reciting poetry, rendering solos, being blindfolded and pushed around the baggage car, and quacking and duck-waddling down the train aisles, the Schmoes were admitted to the select circle of Fatas by band president Nick Rhodt and Mohaves Louis Twardzyk and Duane Hull. 
Operation Cleveland 
The Veterans Administration did its bit to cast a pall over the student trip. Only a few of the vets, most of whom are almost entirely dependent on their G.I. checks from the government, received their first subsistence payments before Nov. 1, with the result that most were unable to attend the game. The University, however, per­mitted the buying of train and game tickets on credit, and more than one thousand who had sufficient money to pay for lodging, meals and incidentals roared into Cleveland for the game. 
The fun really began Saturday night. Darkness found N. D. men hitting every cor­ner of the city in quest of post-game cele­brations. The Victory Dance at the Carter Hotel welcomed most of the trippers, but night clubs, theaters, and movie houses were heavily patronized, too. Alumni and stu­dent parties all over town disturbed neigh­bors for miles around until early Sunday morning. 
Cadet Reception 
More than the West Point football team were impressed by the quality of Notre Dame hospitality when the indefatigable Blue Circle welcomed the Cadet Corps and undertook to make its stay in South Bend a pleasant one. The campus honor society mapped out a. complete program that in­cluded meeting the cadets at the St. Mary's siding with blaring band, dinner in the 
Dining Hall, and a dance in the Drill Hall . with dates from St. Mary's for the cadets. 
The well-planned activities, however, were 
disrupted at the vcr>- beginning of the day. 
Scheduled to arrive at ten a.m., the Army 
special did not pull in until a half-hour be­
fore game time. Ceremonies at the St. 
Mary's siding were cut to a bare minimum, 
and the Cadets marched to the stadium, 
where they arrived in time to display their 
famed precision drilling before the start 
of the game. 
After years of glaring at each other across Yankee Stadium, the Cadets and No­tre Dame students got to know each other for the first time. The Kaydets were sur­prised and overcome by the reception. Said one of them: "You can be proud to be a part of this student body. They have been swell. It certainly changes my opinion of this place." 
A great series rife with bitterness in re­cent years had concluded on an amicable note. 
Toplitsky and Romberg 
"Toplitsky of Notre Dame" and Rom­berg's "The Student Prince" may not ha%-e much in common, but both helped to round out the Radio Club's first airing of "Campus Carnival" over South Bend's WHOT. The humorous stein song, "Let Us Gather at the Goal-Line," sur\'ived the short-lived "Top­litsky" long enough to be sung on the pro­gram. Soloists and chorus of students and wves of students, and a 16-piece orchestra made the show one of the most entertaining ever presented by the Club. 
Another musical aggregation was ac­corded high praise when it appeared on campus Nov. 13. The Vatican Choir, from the Pontifical Institute of Sacred Music in Rome, presented a concert of sacred music. The choir, under the direction of Rt. Rev. Licinio Refice, is now on a coast-to-coast tour. It was brought to Notre Dame as part of the Concert and Lecture Series. 
Tackle and President 
The seniors plodded to the polls on Oct. 29 to cast ballots for class officers. The presidency went to one of Coach Leahy's tackles, George Sullivan, of East Walpole, Mass. Tom McCaffrey was elected vice-president; Larry Ryan, football manager, was chosen secretary, and George Bums, treasurer. 
Another of Coach Leahy's tackles in the news for something other than football was 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 

A Gus Cifelli, of Philadelphia, whose engage­ment to Marguerite Varga, formerly of Pitts­burgh and now of South Bend, was an­nounced. 
Pirates Galore 
The ghosts of Gilbert and Sullivan again stirred in Washington Hall when Notre Dame and St. Mary's Savoyards presented "The Pirates of Penzance" on Dec. 4, 5, 7, and 8. G and S proved to be as popular as ever, the cast playing to a packed house at every performance. 
.\ University Theatre production, it was under the direction of Prof. Cecil Birder. Ralph Thorson played the lead role. Other important roles were portrayed by Roy O'Neil, Lou Almasi, John Commerford, Rob­ert Hochman, Bill Mills, Phil Finnegan, Robert Ruetz, Felicia Schroeder, Sophie 

A Karras, Frances Sanson, Marie Nussbaum, Petrina Mitchell, Peggy Gardner, Elaine Bruck, and Jean Metzger. 
And New Television 
Irish football fans unable to obtain tickets to home games had some consolation. The Iowa, Army, and Tulane games were tele­vised locally as well as in Chicago. Fifty receivers were placed about the campus, in­cluding the sisters' convent, the seminaries. Navy Drill Hall, field house, infirmary, and Washington Hall. A few of the taverns downtown also installed receivers. 
The University intended to install the re­ceivers, which were loaned by several manu­facturers, in downtown theatres, but a Fed­eral Communications Commission ruling made it impossible. 
The television broadcasts were relayed to 

^ Chicago, which can not be picked up in South Bend. However, a special transmitter on the campus sent out the game to South Bend. 
Sophomore Social Note 
Something like 800 couples gathered at the Palais Royalc on Nov. 21 as the Sopho­mores threw their annual ball. The for­mally-clad Cotillionites danced to the music of Ray McKinley and his orchestra until the small hours of the morning — one o'clock, to be exact. Late permissions, how­ever, ran until 2:30. 
One World 
Notre Dame has its own U. N. in the persons of 76 foreign students and eight instructors from 21 foreign countries and Hawaii. Canada heads the list with 20; 12 are Chinese; 10 from Ecuador; six from India, Mexico and Peru; three from Cuba, France, and Hungary; two from Nicaragua, Chile, the Philippines, and Hawaii; and one from Panama, San Salvador, Honduras, Newfoundland, New Zealand, Brazil, Java, Eire, and Colombia. 
Help for the Needy 
The student body is opening its heart 

— and wallet — in a campaign that has as its goal the raising of $35,000 for foreign student relief. It is a part of the drive sponsored by the National Federation of Catholic College Students. 
The campaign, already well under way, closes on Feb. 10 with the giving away of two automobiles, a 1947 Chrysler "Town and Country-" and a 1947 Plymouth club coupe. Books of tickets have been distrib­uted to students. 
A personal subscription drive to net a dollar from each student was started on Dec. 
4. In addition, proceeds from victory dances were assigned to the Relief Cam­paign and many campus clubs are planning activities to swell the fund. 
A huge Mardi Gras Carnival in the Navy Drill Hall will close the drive on Feb. 10. 

The increasing junior population of Vetville is attested by the empty cairiagea liaad up outside Sacred Heart Church while parents and children attend Mass. 
All campus clubs will participate in the Carnival, which will be featured by a ball ^ sponsored by the Rebel dub . 
Football StoMoa Hnal* 
The Scholastic hit the -campus with a mammoth 76-page football issue on Dec 12. It was replete with biographical data on players and coaches, and loaded with pic­tures, full-page accoimts of each game and many "behind the scenes" stories. The Scholastic staif, headed by Editor Frank Kcenan, of Dover, N. H., turned out a magazine that compares favorably with pro­fessional publications. . 
As Christmas vacation drew near members of most campus geographical clubs were fe­verishly completing arrangements for Christ­mas dances to be held in conjunction with alumni clubs. The most elaborate was the Met Club formal ball to be held at the Starlight Roof of the Waldorf-Astoria on Dec. 26. The Philadelphia, New Jersey, St. Louis, and Milwaukee Clubs were a few of the many other clubs also holding dances. 
National Monogram Club Meets Before Army Game 
The National Monogram Club held a luncheon at Notre Dame at. 11:30 aJiL, Saturday, Nov. 8, the day of the Army game. About 230 lettermen, some dating back to 1902, brought wives and friends to make the attendance close to 500. 
This first pre-game luncheon was so suc­cessful that such meetings may eventually become traditional. In the past, the National Monogram Club has met only at Commence-­ment time. 
The idea for such luncheons was bom at the Jime meeting when Joe Boland was elected president of the club, Bcmie Crim­mins, vice-president, and Steve Ronay, sec­retary-treasurer. 
A new activity of the club is the publica­tion of the National Monogram News, which made its first appearance Oct. 24. The paper will appear three times annually— fall, winter and spring. It will carry-ath­letic news of interest to lettermen. Any member of the club not receiving the pub­lication should write to Mr. Ronay at Box 446, Notre Dame. 
Prof. Campbell Resigns 

T. Bowyer Campbell, professor of history at Notre Dame for 16 years, resigned at the close of the 1946-47 term and is now resid­ing in his old home at 6 Lewis St., Lexing­ton, Va. He will be happy to have Word there from his innumerable Notre Dame friends. 
Admiral Jones presents plaque conunending Notre Dame lor training oi nary students to Father Coronaugh on steps of Main Building. 
A tUSY FALL on the campus has given way to what promises to be on equally busy winter. Here are some of the things that hove hoppened: 
— n<f — 

IN DACCA, INDIA, the Most Rev. La%vrence L. Graner, C.S.C., was solemnly enthroned as bishop. He was consecrated at Notre Dame in .•\pril. 
— Tld — 

m APPBECIATION for "the efficiency, patriotism and cooperative spirit dem­onstroted by the University of Notre Dame in training NHOTC, Navy V-12 and USNB Midshipmen units" the De­partment of the Navy presented o bronze plaque to the University. Bear Admiral 
I. Cory lones, USN, mode the presenta­tion; the Bev. John J. Covonough, C.S.C.. president of the University, mode the speech ol acceptance. 
— nd — 

AN INTERNATIONALLY - F.\MOUS scientist, Dr. Glenn Seaborg, delivered the 1947 Nieuwland Memorial Lectures in Chemistr}'. The expert on nuclear energ>' from the University of California said that he would be "rather surprised if Soviet Rus­sia had an atomic bomb within t\vo years." 
— nd — 
THE FIBST Beilly Lecturer in Chemis­

try will be Sir Ian Morris Heilbron. it was announced by the Bev. Howord Kenno, C.S.C., director of studies. Sir Ion, a world authority on vitamins and penicillin, is director o! the Chemical Laboratories at the University ol London.' He will lecture here during April and May, 1948. 
— nd — 

A PORTRAIT of the late Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., former president of No­tre Dame, was unveiled in the parlors of the .Administration Building. The painting, by Robert Joy, is a gift of Joseph A. LaFor­tune, '16, prominent Tulsa, Okla., oil execu­tive and member of the Board of Lay Trus­tees at Notre Dame. 
— nd — 

SIXTY STUDENTS are enrolled in the United States Air Forces BOTC progrom started here in September. 
— nd — 

THE NATIONAL CONVENTION of the Catholic Students' Mission Crusade will be held on the campus from August 26 to 29, according to an announcement of Father Cavanaugh, president of Notre Dame. 
~nd — 

THIBTEEN ex-servicemen, veterans ol some of the bitterest lighting in Worid War n, entered Holy Cross Sensinoxy here this {all to study lor the priesthood. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
UNIVERSI; 
By Edward A 

THE GRE.\T BOOKS MOVEMENT is thriving on the campus. The seed was planted here two years ago by Judge Roger Kiley, '23, who became acquainted with the program through Dr. Robert Hutchins and Dr. Mortimer Adier at the University of Chicago, where the foundation was started. Judge Kiley, Father John Cavanaugh, and Dean Clarence Manion began to meet reg>@ larly here, in October, 1945, to discuss se­lected works of Plato, .•\ristotle, St. Thomas Aquinas, and other great minds. Several such groups have since sprung up on the campus. Twice monthly the University is host to discussion groups composed of South Bend men and women. Recently the Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C., conducted a two-week training course here for Great Books discussion leaders. 
— nd — 
AN EXHIBIT oi drawings and paint­ings was held in the newly decorated studios ol the Fine Arts DepartmenL The works were those ol present and post students and members ol the art loculty. 
— nd — 

A BOOKLET, "Social Justice in tl 0 Modem World," believed to be the first Papal Encyclical ever completely indexed, has been released by the Outline Press Pub­lication. The work, prepared by Dr. Fran­cis Joseph Brown, professor of Economics at the University, is based on Pope Pius XI's famed encyclical, "Quadragesimo Anno." 
— nd — 
THE HEAD oi the Department of 

Chemistry, Dr. C. C. Price, has been namd one ol the ten outstanding men in . the field ol organic chemistry, according to "The Chemical Bulletin," a publica­tion ol the American Chemical Society. 
— nd — 

FOUR PROMINENT speakers were guest lecturers at the University during the past month: 
Dr. Etiennc Gilson, world-famed philoso­pher, gave three lectures before the Med ^ aeval Institute here. ^ r 
Dr. W. .Albert Noyes, president of the 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 

Y TODAY 
Fischer, '37 
-American Chemical Society, conducted a seminar in chemistry-. 
Vincent J. Schaefer, research chemist for General Electric Company and pioneer in th field of artificial weather, discussed weather control methods in the 1947 Mar­tin McCue Lecture. 
" The Hon. Joseph Scott, prominent Los Angeles attorney, addressed the students on the subject of the Church Militant. Mr. Scott, the father of three former Notre Dame students, was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1918 and was knighted with the Order of St. Gregor>- in 1920. 
— nrf — 

TALKS given outside the class room by members of the faculty included: 
The proportional representation sys­tem of voting should be discontinued in the United States as a further protection against Communist infiltration into the government. Dr. F. A. Hermens, professor of Political Science, said in a national broadcast over CBS. 
An aggressive public relations pro­
% am by the Economic and Social Coun­cil of the United Nations Organization was advocated by Professor Wesley C. Bender, head of the Department of Mar­keting, in addressing the social science teachers at the Indiana State Teachers Convention at Indianapolis. 
Revival of free international trade as a vital step toward world economic recov­ery was advocated by Thomas T. Mur­phy, associate professor of finance, at a Communion breakfast of the Newman Club at Purdue University. 
Products derived from cinnamic add as a result of research at Notre Dame were described by Dr. Christopher L. Wilson, professor of chemistry, at the fall meeting oi the American Electro­chemical Society held here. 
Disbelief that a world government or­
ganization can lead the way to lasting peace was expressed by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Political Science. 
Dr. Milton Burton (left), professor of Chemistry, and Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, who delivered the 1947 Nieuwlond Memorial Lectures in Chemistry 
before the Chicago Institute for Reli­
gious and Social Studies. 
Fimdamental properties of nuclei were 

discussed by Dr. Charles J. Mullin, as­
sistant professor of physics, in the first 
of a weekly series of lectures on elemen­
tary nuclear physics to be delivered 
here for students, educators, and the 
general public-
Representing the Catholic View on the 

problem of "Man and the State," the 
Rev. Dr. Gerald B. Phelan addressed 
the Institute for Religious and Sodal 
Studies on "Current Religious Thought" 
in Chicago. Father Phelan is director 
of the Mediaeval Institute here. 
— nd — 

The appointment of John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, of Charleston, W. Va., to the University of Notre Dame Foundation staff was recent­ly announced by James E. -Armstrong, alum­ni secretary and executive vice-chairman of the Foundation's Board of Governors. 
John was formerly employed by the Treas­ury Department as deputy state director for the U. S. Savings Bonds Division in West Virginia. 
An .\rray veteran of World War II, John ser\'cd more than three years in the Medi­terranean and European theatres. After re­ceiving an honorable discharge in Paris, France, soon after VE- Day, he was named vice consul at the United States Consulate, Marseille, France. 
Prior to entering the Armed Forces, John was affiliated with General Motors Corp., as a field representati\'e in Ohio and West Virginia. 
Reseorch Bnpensei Kse To Half-Million Dollars 
Notre Dame has almost quadrupled its expenditures for basic research this year, it was reported by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.G., president, to the Notre Dame Ad­visory Council for Science and Engineering which met at Notre Dame in a three-day session Nov. 21-23. 
The Council, which is headed by Edgar Kobak, ex-'08, of the Mutual Broadcasting System, is composed of 16 well-known scien­tists, engineers and industrialists. 
Father Cavanaugh revealed that Notre Dame has increased its research expendi­tures for science and engineering from $120,000 to nearly $500,000. He empha­sized that one of the principal purposes of the newly-organized Notre Dame Founda­tion is to help raise badly-needed funds to expand still further important research now being conducted at Notre Dame. 
This Notre Dame research was. described by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, dean of the Graduate School. It includes, he said, nu­clear energy, electronics, cancer, new types of liquid fuels, synthetic rubber, penicillin pigments, insulin, germ-free animah for the study of different types of diseases, anti­malarial drugs, vitamins, proteins, mineral metabolism, the cause of tooth decay, nu­trition, plastics, vaccines, toxins, seed ger­mination and other research of benefit to mankind. 
Members of the advisor>- board inspected the Notre Dame chemical laboratories and were addressed by Dr. Charles C. Price, head of the Department of Chemistry and 1946 recipient -oi the American society award for pure chemistry. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Two-Day Institute Stresses Natural Law 
Bishop O'Hara and Dr. Mortimer Adlcr Among Prominent Speakers Addressing Meeting at N. D. 
Increased emphasis on the Natural Law, or the Law of God recognized by human reason, as the basis of life, liberty and all other human rights, was urged by speakers at the First Natural Law Institute which concluded a two-day meeting at the Uni­versity on Dec. 13. 
The Institute was attended by hundreds of lawyers, judges, clergymen, educators, students and other interested persons from many parts of the country. The Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, c.s.c. Bishop of Buffalo, 
N. Y., and former president of Notre Dame, was Honorary Chairman of the Institute, while the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c. President, presided. 
Bishop O'Hara Sounds Keynote 

The speakers included Rev. William Do­heny, c.s.c, noted authority on canon law; Dr. Mortimer Adler, of the University of Chicago; Prof. Ben W. Palmer, of the Uni­versity of Minnesota; Harold R. McKinnon, prominent San Francisco, Cal., attorney; -and Dr. Clarence E. Manion, dean of the 
Notre Dame Law School. 
The keynote of the Institute was sounded by Bishop O'Hara when he warned that mankind, as a whole, must return to the Natural Law or lose all concept of the God-given rights of man. Such a catastrophe as loss of this concept, he added, would give rise to more dictators like Stalin and Hitler who would enslave and degrade the entire world. 
In welcoming those attending the Insti­tute, Father Cavanaugh said that their in­terest was "an indication that there remains in this country a strong nucleus of thought­ful Americans who share the conviction that a strong hope — the only hope — for the future of American jurisprudence lies in giving law students a proper sense of the basic inter-relationship of the Positive Law and the Natural Law." 
Father Cavanaugh also emphasized that "God's creative purpose existed in His in­finite mind before He created man; that the natural law, imder which our htmian law receives its only sanction, existed before God made man, breathed into him an im­mortal soul, and provided him with nature's bounty." 
"I think it is well to recall this truth, particularly at a time when there is such a noticeable attempt to oust God from His universe," Father Cavanaugh continued, "when man's laws take precedence over God's laws, if, indeed, they do not supplant them altogether." 
Dr. Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of Law at Notre Dame, said the issues discussed at the Institute were vital to every American. He also emphasized that it was the devotion of the Founding Fathers to the Natural Law that made pos­sible the present United States Government. 
"Does the individual man have rights?" he asked. "If so, where do these rights come from? If they come from Constitu­tions and Bills of Rights, what is to prevent someone from changing these Constitutions and taking these rights away? 
"Is the rightness of all governmental ac­tion to be tested by what a majority of the people desire the government to do from time to time? If this is true, what was 
•vvrongabout Hitler's Government, assuming that a -majority of the German people wanted him to do what he did? 
"If a man does have an imperishable, cre­ated nature which is governed and pro­tected by created natural laws, then there would seem to be justification for those hu­man Constitutions and Bills of Rights which try to protect human beings from the wanton, whimsical treatment that is ac­corded to beasts of the field. 
"If mam has no such created nature and there are no such created natural laws for his special protection, then man is just a grown up beast and the best woidd seem to belong to the biggest. If this is the case, might is right, justice is non-existent, and the world might as well reconcile itself to the worst." 
True Law Derived From Eternal low 

Another speaker, the Rev. William Do­heny, c.s.c, of the University of Notre Dame, noted authority on Canon Law, pointed out that "all human beings should become increasingly aware of the fact that every true law is derived in some way from the Divine Eternal Law." 
"Since the Eternal Law is that supreme and exalted plan of government existing in God Himself, the Supreme Legislator, all plans of govenmient on inferior planes are derived from the Eternal Law," according to Father Doheny. "Hence it is that all laws, in so far as they partake of right reason, are derived from the Eternal Law. In other words, all that is just and lawful in temporal laws is derived from the Eternal Law." 

Professor Ben W. Palmer of the Univer­sity of Minnesota told the Institute that un­less pragmatic philosophy is driven out of the American legal scheme, the system will be shattered and chaos will result. 
"One hundred and forty million men and women, each unique and infinitely precious in the eye's of God, seek refuge in the temple of American law," he said. "They look for protection against the abuses of arbitrary power whether by individuals, ruthless mi­nority groups, or by the clamorous majority in the vast continental democracy. If they find that the foundations of that structure have been subtly undermined so that it no longer gives them assurance of protection; if they see with newly-opened eyes that the law administered therein is merely the em­bodiment of arbitrary force, of command and not of reason or enduring principles of justice, they will shatter it to bits and revert to primeval chaos or insurrection organized. And that catastrophe will occur if a prag­matic philosophy dominates the law, par­ticularly American constitutional law." 
Con Not Exclude Moral Values 

Speaking at another session of the Insti­tute, Harold R. McKinnon, prominent San Francisco, Calif., attorney, declared that in spite' of efforts by legal realists to exclude moral values from laws. Natural Law has survived because men naturally think in terms of it. 
"The values which they thrust out through one door," he asserted, "reentered through another. And any effort to place those values at any point short of the ulti­mate principles of the practical human rea­son is similarly futile. There is no choice between these principles and some oihcr source of values. The only choirs: is be­tween values and an effort to remake man without values, the consequences of which we have lately witnessed." 
The philosophy of the Natural Law was discussed before the Institute by Dr. Morti­more J. Adler of the University of Chicago. He said that more people in the world must start thinking about the Natural Law as 
^Continued on page 58] 

Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
» »

•ALUMNI CLUBS 
Boston 
The club held its first meeting of the seasoa at the Han-ard Club Oct. 15. The following officers were elected: president, JOHN V. MORAN, '30; vice-president, FRANK H. REILLY, 'Sa,- sec­retary, JACK NYE DUFFEY, ex. '35; treasurer, JOHN S. VAUGHAN, >47. 
The president appointed the following members to the Executive Committee: HUGH F. BLUNT, 
•24 and JOHN R. HERBERT; '28, co-chairmen; JOSEPH A. GARTLAND, JR., '27, JAMES R. SKAHAN, '31, JOSEPH SULLIVAN, '22, WIL­LUM J. THOMPSON, '47, P. A. TOFURI, '36. 
A tentative program was worked out for the ensuing year. January or February—A regular meet­ing is planned with the business portion kept brief in order that wc may have some interesting moving pictures. JOH.V T. BURKE, '29, will make the arrangements as chairman. Monday April 5—Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. No definite plans have been made and all arrangements have been left in the hands of Alumni Governor JOHN F. SAUN­DERS, '31, and JAMES T. BOWDREN, '35, as co-chairmen. Spring—An informal golf party is planned with THOMAS F. KINNEALEY, '38, as chairman. Summer—The club will plan some sort of an outing which will be a family affair. 
JACK NYE DUFEEY 

Baltimore 
On Oct, 28 fort^' members and their wives attended a Halloween party at the beautiful Tea House of McCormick and Co. In addition to offering us the facilities of the Tea House, the company pre­sented six lovely prizes to the ladies. 
The party w-as highlighted by the announcement of the two winners of an all expense weekend trip for the Notre Dame-Army game. BILL JACOBS was in charge and he and his committee did an exceptional job in making it a grand success. 
At our Foundation night meeting, HAL WIL­LIAMS, city chairman of the Foundation, introduced a motion that the club contribute $100 from our meager bank account to the Fund. The motion was quickly approved by the membership. 
Hal Williams, incidentally, was author of the stirring and very well received article on "Balti-" more" that appeared in a recent issue of '^Holiday Afogazine," and he was congratulated by the mem­bers for a job "well done." 
Arrangements were completed to celebrate Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday with a Com­munion Breakfast at Mt. St. Joseph's High School. 
BILL HARTAL\N 

Confon, O. 
The club held a dinner meeting at the Belden Hotel on Oct. 29. It was attended by 25 alumni from Canton, Massillon, and Alliance. JAMES SEXTON was the senior member present. 
The club, with the aid of Canton Catholic Cen­tral High School, held a very successful contest for the benefit of our scholarship fund. The prizes were Notre Dame-Navy tickets. A football, autographed by FRANK LEAHY and the team, was presented to the most active student in the contest. 
Rev. A. C. Cook, dean of Education in the Youngstown diocese, gave a short address, followed by a showing of "The 1946 Highlights." 
Our president, BILL BELDEN, attended the presidents' meeting of the Alumni Clubs Nov. 21-22. BILL UNGASHICK 
Centrof New fork 
» 
Noon, Saturday, Nov. 1, saw the temperatmi; soar, but faithful club members dined at the Uni­
versity Club and huddled around ED KENE­FAKE'S portable for the play-by-play of the Notre Dame-Navy game. This annual event was one of the few that siu^ived through the war, and plans for next >-ear include imitations to the Naval Academy giads in the area to attend. Frexy MARK MOONEV discussed the Notre Dame Foundation and National Director LEO KELLEY gave a re­port of the recent Directors' Meeting at Soatb Bend. ED BUIUCE did the local broadcasting, hav­ing just returned to S^-racuse after the Nebraska game. HAWLEY VANSWALL and BILL KEL­LEY were among the Central New Yorkers at the game. 
N.D.-Army weekend left Syracuse almost without 
N.D. fans as alumni ventured to South Bend for the game. Highlighting the weekend, besides the game, was the wedding of JOHN McAULIFFE, '39, and ^fildred Lonergan at Sacred Heart Church, .\otre Dame. JIM and DAVE HUXFORD, JUS­TIN CORCORAN, VINCE BROWN, JACK "ADAM" WALSH, HENRY KIRK, THOMAS S.NYDER, and BILL BYRNE were in the stands cheering the Irish on to victory. 
On the Saturday, Jan. 3, the campus dub of Central New Yorkers will sponsor a semi-fonnal dance at the East Ballroom of the Hotel Syracuse from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Alumni and friends are cor­dially invited to attend. TED DWYER, president of the campus club, is handling the NJD. arrange­ments and MARK MOONEY and JOHN TERRY are setting up local plans. See you there. 
JOHN H. TERRY 

CAicogo 
The Army-Notre Dame Rally at the Grand Ball­room of the Stevens Hotel Nov. 7 was another success chalked up to the club's standout promoter. First Vice-President JAMES CRONIN, '35. The second annual football rally featured Tat O'Brien as toastmaster, REV. ROBERT H. SWEENEY, C.S.C, executive assistant to the president, and WnXIAM R. DOOLEY, assistant ahmini seoe­taiy, both spoke. Other guest speaken and enter­tainen indndeil James Conzelman, Jeny Lester, and JACK SHEA, who wrote the lyrics to the Notre Dame "Victory March." 
The c^iaoty crowd -danced to the mtaac of Al-Mamcy and his orchestra. More than over forty states were represented at the lally. Sxteem AisqF-Notre Dame tickets were awanled that night to lucky parties. Out-of-towneis who have attended rallies in New York, develand, Baltunore, and Los Alleles were in most cases very wdl pleased' Mrith the party. They felt that this rally had three distinct advantages: well-balanced program .of speakers, sports celebrities, entertainers and danc-. ii^; oo-the-minute table service; and eoou^ space to dance and a very fine band which started the program exactly on time. The fact that this rally started at the designated tinK, if nothing die, made it phenomenal. 
JAMES KANE, '44, featured Sid Lucfanan ol the Chicago Bears and CHARLES CALLAHAN, sports publicity mogul at the Univecsity, 'at his October monthly luncheon. Both hmcheoos were overflow affairs. 
AL CARROLL, '22, has informed the office that the annual election meeting will be held in the latter part of January at the Chicago Seal Estate Board dining rooms. He is planning a very inter­esting program and membeis will receive foil 'de­tails in the very near future. Notes on Chicagoland Alumni: 
KEVIN bTOOLE, '43, is courting a very cute nurse on the South Side. .. . the chib was sory to hear the news of the death of LEO FOWERS', '25, father, Jidm Ftowets, who passed away last • 
Chicago Club Sponsors Humorous ActivWos 
The Chicago Club is moving cdong crt a fast dip to placo wall up cixnong the N.D. clubs throughout the nation. ..Th* only dub to mcdntain a permanent office mid iuU-time secietaiy, it hem serviced a tottd oi 9.3S0 persons during the post year, according to a recent report. Bobort P. led " Lonergan. '43. is in charge oi the dub oiGce. 
In addition to servicing such a large number oi persons by phimo. mtnl and personal contact on such voried matters as placement (rid. diiectiiig clients to alumni lawyers, obtoining infuimuUou ier members, locating men to iill openings in members' organixcitians imd numerona personal services. the club has cm imposing list oi other activities. 
More than 500 alumni used its oifice job plotwrnent .{adlities, and 156 tdtunni were placed last year through the service. 
More than 25J100 lines oi publicity, the equal at 25 poges oi newspaper space, appecored on dub activities, (md a dub directory is published bi­annuolly. The oifice also furnishes infermatien to the general pubUc <m {ootfaoU tickets, entrance to N. D_ and athletic histocy: ond to grammar and high schools, big business houses, and many forms oi news mediet 
The dub has represented the University at high school "college days"; contacts -winners oi various notional corporation seholmtahips: imd repie­sents the University on various placement fomma. 
The dub is not resting on its accompHsfaments. Its future i^cms in­clude the showing of college imd football movies ia places where the. University would be unable to send tmyone faotn school: and the develop­ment of a radio program over o Chictigo stciliOB. of o sdiolcnaliip fimd« cmd of soddl works projects which should reoBie mudi good win for AM University. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Sept. 30. . . . EDDIE RYAN. M3, will be filing 

with another dependent this March 15 since an 
Edtlic, Jr., joined the Notre Dame Junior Boosters 
on Nov. 7. . . . Your correspondent wishes to be 
excused for stating that "FRANCIS T. McCUR-
RIE. "27, Public Defender for Cook County, re­
cently announced his retirement to return to priv-ate 
practice.'' Mr. McCurrie has no such intentions; 
\-Dur author confused his name with that of an­
other official whose name was phonetically similar. 
Since libel suits are still heard in the courts of IMi­
nois. the author will in the future be more careful 
until such time as he can afford a "Winchell" 
law\-er. . . ." 
ROBERT LONERGAN 

Cincinnati 
On Oct. 14 the club held its Kick-Off Dinner at the Hotel Alms with a reception prior to the din­ner. At the formal business meeting, ALBERT D. CASTELLINI read to the members of the cluh the proposed final draft of the Scholarship Agree­ment, an amendment to the constitution of the dub which he had put into legal form from the ad­\-anced decisions arrived at by the Scholarship Committee during special meetings held over the past six months. Additional suggestions were made by JOSEPH KINNEARY and accepted by the dub. ROBERT CHEN.AL made the motion that the Sdiolarship Agreement be accepted by the dub, the motion was seconded and passed by the mem­bers—thus culminating the dreams of many Notre Dame ahimni in this area in years gone by. 
PRESIDENT NIENABER appointed the follow­ing committee for the Second Annual Notre Dame Scholarship Ball: ROBERT HUGHES, patrons; EDWARD MERSMAN and WILLIAM MIDDEN­DORF. tickets and reser^-ations; R,AYMOND GUD­MENS. arrangements; ROBERT LEONARD, pub­licity; and JOHN C. COTTINGHA^^, general chairman. The ball inaugurated last year \V3S the most outstanding sodal success of the Christmas 
•season in Cindnnati and this year will be held at the PaviUion Caprice of the Hotel Nelherland Plaza, Jan. 2. 1948. and will feature a brilliant floor show by professional talent from the night dubs of Greater Cindnnati. 
At the November meeting President Nienaber gave a report on the football excursions to the Pur­due, Na\-y and Northwestern games, which were ver>' successful. At that meeting we were honored by a \-isit and short address by MIKE BRIA5 from Manila. Dan Tchan, who officiates at many of the Notre Dame basketball games, was the guest speaker for the evening. 
JOHN C. COTTINGHAM 

Connecticut Yalley 
High spot of the dub's activities for October was the reception for FATHER ROBERT H. SWEE­NEY, C.S.C., executive assistant to FATHER CAVANAUGH, hdd at the Seven Gables Towne House, in New Haven, on Oct. 15. The affair was sponsored by the combined alumni dubs of Con­necticut. 
Father Sweeney spoke to more than 100 N.D. alumni on the Universit>''s contemplated cxpamion plans. Chairman of the meeting was TIM MUR­PHY, treasurer of the Connecticut Valley Club. 
Among the alumni present were: Superior Court Judge JAMES E. MURPHY; Common Pleas Court JUDGE JOHN T. CULLINAN; JOHN F, SHEA, co-composer of "The Victory March;" FRANK .AHEARN, dtv editor of the Hartford Times; At­torney TOM CURRY; JOHN (CLIPPER) SMITH. former N.D. All-American; and DAVE HAYES, Notre Dame football luminar}- of the early '20*s. 
The dub has wdcomcd a new member in DAVE MESKILL, '39, who is now lining and working in Hartford. Dave formerly was affiliated with the Boston Club. DON FOSKETT 
Several dub member made the trip to Notre Dame for the Army game, \-ia the spcdal train sponsored by the New York Club. Among the veterans of prior N.D.-Army tussles were DAVE HAYES, TIM MURPHY, and JOHNNIE SMITH. captain of the '27 team. John lost his voice temporarily pulling for TERRY BRENNAN to go all the way on that opening run. This was the only casualty aside from yours truly, who picked N. D. to win by five touchdowns. DON FOSKETT 
Des Moines 
The large number of members attending the Army game necessitated a one-week postponement of the dub's regular meeting to Nov. 14. Part of the meeting was given over to discussion of the game and weekend on campus. 
The Foundation program was outlined and it w-as announced that JIM SHAW has been appointed dty chairman by FATHER CAVANAUGH. fl 
-At this meeting we bad as guests the Rt. Rev. Msgr. John O'Grady, national secretary of the Natioiul Conference of Catholic Charities; Ver>- Rev. Msgr. R. P, Duggan, director of Catholic Chari­ties, archdiocese of Dubuque; and Rev. F. T. /Such, director of Catholic Charities in the diocese of Des Moines and president of the Iowa Catholic Chari­ties Conference. 
PRESIDENT WHALEN announced that 
GEORGE PFLANZ would represent the Des Moines 
dub at the meeting of dub presidents held on the 
campus the weekend of the Tulane game. 
LOUIS F. KURTZ 

Indianapolis 
Eighty-one members of the dub attended the first meeting of the 1947-48 >-ear on Oct. 14. G. DON SULLIVAN acted as general chairman. Don called on WALTER STUHLDREHER, the Indi­anapolis dty chairman, to explain the functions, scope and purpose of the Foundation. Later on in the program Mike Kelly, former manager of the Indianapolis Indians Baseball dub and coach at x-arious times of Pittsburgh, Boston and Chicago, g~^ gave an interesting talk on all of the World Series \ ^ games as he saw them in New York- This first meeting was dimaxed with the ND foo:ball film "Highlights of 1946." 
This fait we have run three spedal trains to Notre Dame games, Io\%a and Tulane at South Bend, and Na\'y at Cleveland. All profits derived from these trains has gone into the Scholarship Fund. Needless to say all of the trains were over­subscribed and the general consensus of participants was that they were the best ever. At this point I might add that if PAT FISHER, JOE ARGUS and others of us worked half as hard at our own lines of endeavor as we did on that Naxy trip, we could all go to Florida for \'acations. Not to be dis­counted is JOHN O'CONNOR'S Iowa train and TOM WELCH who piloted the Tulane trip. 
All of the local Irish were in attendance to hear FRANK LEAHY on Nov. 19 when he spoke before BILL FOX'S Indianapolis New3 Downtown Quar­terback get-together at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. Frank ran off the pictures of the .-Vrniy game in Ted Husing fashion. FREDDY illLLER was pilot and navigator in flying Frank to and from South Bend. 
As the impetus of the Notre Dame Foundation progresses WALTER STUHLDREHER has ap-^ pointed BILL MOONEY as chairman of the non-^ ^ alumni group and PAT FISHER chairman of the alumni. In addition to these two appointments Walter has named GEORGE BISCHOFF, BILL LEPPERT, JIM BOWEN, CHARLES MASON, JOE HARMON and AL SMITH as team captains, whose crews will completely cam-as all alumni in Indianapolis and vidnity. 
The principal speaker at the football banquet given on Nov. 18 for the Cathedral High School grid squad was JOE DIENHART, *27, assistant athletic director and head freshman grid coach at Purdue University. Other speakers were BROTHER REGIS, C.S.C., the school principal, BROTHER NIVARD, C.S.C., athletic director, and FATHER GEORGE DOLAN, C.S.C, school chaplain. Ind-dentally, CHARLEY MASO.N'S eldest offspring, Johnny, was elected co-captain of next season's Cathedral eleven. 
NICK CONNOR 

Kentucky 
The dub has been quite active these past two months and so have a number of its members. On Oct. . n , MARION HEFFERNAN married Miss Mary Rose Hamilton and on Oct. 30 CARL RATTERMAN and Miss Rose Marie Mudd were wed. 
When Father Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., visited the Northern Caliiomia CIub« h«, 
The old married men were not to be outdone VJF was snapped with John W. Corey and Slip Madigan, seated* and standing left to by these newlyueds, for on Oct. 24 Mrs. PATRICK GREENE presented Pat with twin girls, Mary and 
right BiU Jones (visiting from Washington, D. C), Ralph Haviland, Al Servo, cmd 
Fannie, and on Nov. 15 Mrs. OSCAR VON ALL-Bob McDonald. MEN gave birth to a boy. He was christened 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
Robert Christian, but his friends will call him 

# Chris. 
The club is happy to have BILL MORROW back again. He was recently transferred from Flor­ida to the Louisville area by the Revnolds Metal Co. 
The Scholarship Fund Contest for an all-expense trip for two to the Army game came to a most successful conclusion on Xov. 1 when Herb Scott was named winner. The results exceeded all expec­tation and the highest of praise must go to the chairman, JOE DONALDSON, whose thorough­ness and untiring effort made such results possible. 
TOM BULLEIT, chairman of the bus trip to the Iowa game, saw to it that 75 members and guests had a most en]o>-ab1e weelcend. HigMtghts of the trip were the banquet Friday night, the hotel accommodations in Indianapolis, and the big game Saturday. 
The club sponsored a train trip to the Tulane game Xov. 22. .Among the 300 people making the trip were AQ orphans and 10 Catholic high school students as guests of the club. The orphans* football tickets and food were donated by citizens of Louis­ville. The hard work and ner\-ous strain of this affair went lo FRANK BLOEMER, who did his usual superb job in making the trip a success. 
The chairman of the Entertainment Committee, CHARLEY MORROW, has announced the final arrangements for the Christmas dance to be held Dec. 26 at the Henry Clay Hotel. As is customary, the dance will be held with the cooperation of the Kentucky Club of Notre Dame 
OTTO J. AHLETI 
Los Angeles 
Five hundred attended the club's first annual sports dinner in the main dining room of the Los Angeles Athletic Club Nov. 7. 
Councilman ED DAVENPORT handled the master of ceremonies duties, calling on such per­sonalities as JcfT Cravath, Southern Cal grid mentor; Bill Sargent, coach of Loyola; Bob Snyder, head coach of the Los Angeles Rams, and his assistant, George Trafton; and members of the press. 
A host of former Notre Dame grid stars were introduced, including GERRY COWHIG, JOHN ZILLY, BOB D.WID, and JOHN XLARTIN, cur­rent members of the Rams. 
Memphis 
The dub gathered at the Tennessee Club for a dinner on Nov. 5. Much of the discussion concerned the Notre Dame Foundation and plans were made to have another meeting in the future on the matter. 
After the dinner, a large number of alumni left for the campus lo attend the Army game. 
.•\1I plans are being made for obser^-ance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. DONNELL McCOR^L\CK, *36, is chairman of all arrangements and publicity. We are expecting our largest turn­out with friends of Notre Dame attending, as well as all alumni. DORSEY MATHIS 
Milwaukee 
The Nov. 4 meeting was attended by a small but enthusiastic group of nineteen. The groundwork for the Foundation was outlined; FRED MILLER has since been appointed Foundation city chairman. Publicity in local papers regarding the beginning of the drive for funds has been started. 
The Christmas dance will be held Dec. 26 at the Shorecrest Hotel. DR. BRLVN McLAUGHLIN heads the dance committee. 
The Milwaukee Club on the campus has been initiated, and DON GOTTSCHALK has contacted the student group tvith the proposal to co-ordinate alumni and student actiWties. 
TOM DIXON attended the conference of club presidents at Notre Dame the week-end of the Tulane game NEAL J. GLEASON 
Members oi the New Yoric Qub pc«­pcare to board one of the ipecial troiiis to the Army game. Left to right Mr. and Mrs. Colmon O'Shaughnessy. Al Penin«# and Jack Sweeney, of the N. Y. CentroL who has a son attending N. D. 
New Jersey 
The club bad the pleasure of having FATHER SWEENEY, assistant to FATHER CAVANAUGH, and HARRY G. HOGAN, president of the Alumni Assodation, speak at its October xaeeUng. We're all agreed that we should have speakers such as these from the University more often and are eagerly loolung fonvard to that day. 
BILL SMALL has been appointed chairman of the New Year's dance, with ED lORBY, GEORGE PLAIN, and BILL DURHAM assisting him. Arrangements have been completed and we arc all set to handle over 500 people at the affair, which wilt be held at the Essex House in Newark. The dance is open to outsiders, provided they procure their tickets through a Notre Dame man. 
PETE QUINN was in charge of the Army-N. D. affair, and, as usual, did a swell job. He hasn't made his complete report yet, but we expect to hear good financial news at our next meeting. 
JOE BYRNE, former city commissioner of Newark and present mommissioncr of the Port of New York Authority, has been named Newark City chairman for the Foundation program. 
Just in case any of our traveling alumni happen to be passing through New Jersey and would like to drop in on any of our meetings, we hold them on the first Monday of evcr>- month at the Essex House in Newark. BILL DURHAM 
A CHALLENGE TO CLUBS 
When the Notre Dame Club of New York lost spring contributed $1<000 to the Bureau of Economic Research at the University, it offered to in­crease its contribution to $1«500 if any other Notre Dame club would give $500 to this undertaking. So far, there has been no taker of this challenge. But it still stands. Bob­ett A. Hamilton. '28. Notre Domo Qub of New York, 60 E. 42nd SU is the man to write to about it 

Nauqafuek Valley 
At our last meeting on Nov. 3, IVesident FRANK MURNANE recommended WILUAM ANDRES for the position of dty chairman of the Founda­tion Fund. We feel sure Bill is well qoalified for the position and that he will represent Notxe Dame very vfell, 
FRANK MURNANE was on hand at Notre Dame, at the Coundl of C3ub Presidents, to repre­sent our organization and bring back many helpful suggestions for the bettermen of our dub. 
JA^fES J. SCIGLIANO 

New York Cify 
New York did not seem the same this November without the hustle and bustle of the Axtaj game and rally. Nevertheless, the club undertook two big ventures which turned out to be the most suc^ss­ful of all local alumni activities. 
Under the sponsorship of "BOB HAMILTON, hard<working executive secretary of the Trust Fund, the annual Trust Fund contest was ran off on Nov. 3 in the East ballroom of the Waldorf. Sparked by JOHNNIE BURNS and JERRY BROWN, the contest was the most successful in the history of the club. Others contributing to its great success were JACK FINNERAN, LARRY GHJIOOLEY. and BILL FALLON. The administrative work was done by an able staff made up of JORDAN HAR­GROVE, TIM TOOMEY, ED HOYT. TOM HUGHES and many others. 
The other big activity was the Army game week­end Pullman trip to South Bend under the leader­ship of COLMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY. Approxi­mately 300 alumni members and friends, includ­ing Mayor O'Dwyer, made the trip. 
We are particularly happy here in New York to see that FRANK C. WALKER has been appointed chairman of the Foundation. The dub wiU throw-its efforts behind the activities of Mr, Walker and we expect to be leaders in this particular alumm actirity. 
Our Placement Committee is still worlung bard under the leadership of JOHN BALFE at the dub headquarters at 60 East 42nd St. Twelve to dghteen men per month have been registering at the com­mittee offices and the committee has been very suc­cessful in pladng a number o r men chiring the past year. 
This year in addition to the heavy activities in connection with the Placement Committee, JOHN BALFE squeezed into his crowded imigram time and assistance in connection with the Trust Fund contest and the Army game trip. 
JIM McDEVITT, treasurer, reports that approx­imately one-third of the members on our Notre Dame m:uling list has p^d their local dub dues. This is good evidence of interest in the dub activ­ities, and is largdy due to the constant efforts of ED BECKMAN, our vice-president, who has combed the list and worked hard with his commit­tee on membership. 
We have been meeting the second Wednesday of the month at the Waldorf as usual, and have had a very enjoyable fall season. 
The secretary would welcome news from time to time from those who read this column, and re­quests that the local alumni members forward any such information or communications to lus office at 20 Vesey Street, New York 7, N. Y. 
The weekend of Nov. 22, TIERNEY O'ROtJRKE, 
president of the dub, x-isited the campus in con­
nection with the annual meetiag of dub presidents. 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. 

Oklahoma Cify 
The first meeting on Oct. 6 of the latest ad^tlon 

to the roster of alumni dubs was attended by a 
small but enthusiastic group. All N.D. graduates 
in the area arc now being contacted and a much 
larger attendance is expected at the December 
meeting. 
Officers dected at the mce&ig are HASKELL 

ASKEW, president; ED STORY, vice president; and 
JOHN B. MARTIN, secretary. 
JOHN B. MARTIN 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ScAenecfocfy 
The newly-organized club elected JOHN F. HURLEY, '27, president; GEORGE E. THOMP­SON, '43, vice president; and CHARLES FLAN­NIGAN, sccretarj'-treasurcr. 
The club has been following through an active program since its recent formation, and plans for the future call for even more activity. A scries of luncheon meetings have been attended by 13 to 20 local members. Two evening meetings have been held, one at the home of Secretarj-Treasurer CHARLIE FLANIGAN, and the other at the local 
K. of C. home, at which Alsgr. John J. Finn, national president of the Holy Cross alumni asso­ciation, spoke. 
Members and their wives were guests of JACK HUETHER at his home Nov. 8 to listen to the .Army game. * Some 30 were in attendance for the afternoon festivities and the buffet supper after­wards. Future plans call for club participation on Notre Dame Communion Sunday, and for a Christ­mas Dance scheduled for Dec. 26. 
St. Louis 
JAMES E. MCCARTHY, dean of the College of Commerce, \t'as the principal speaker at the Nov. 24 meeting of the dub in the Statler Hotel. He explained the Foundation program and discussed the University's future plans. 
The club has started a program to enlist the active participation of all members in club affairs. In line w-jth this, circulars listing all club com­mittees have been sent to memben with the re­quest that they indicate which of the committees they desire to scta-e on during 1948. 
Our annual Scholarship Contest, with the first prize being two all-cxpcnse trips to the Notre Dame-Army game, was a huge success this year. Five RCA table model radios were given as con­solation prizes. 
Congratulations are really in order to the co-chairmen, MARTY HUGHES, WALTER GEORGE, and PAUL FEHLIG. Top men were CHARLIE GIOMI, BOB HELLRUNG, WALTER GEORGE. BERT COUGHLIN, VINCE FEHLIG, and AL R/WARINO. 
The St. Louis campus club gave ns excellent co­
operation and should be complimented for their 
fine work. 
The annual student-alumni Christmas dinner 
dance will be held Dec. 29 at the Statler. FRED 
WEBER has appointed WARREN HELLRUNG 
and JOHN HUCKSTEP to scn.c as chairmen for 
this party. 
The Rockne Memorial Trophy will be awarded 
between halves of the Notre Dame-St. Louis Uni­
versity basketball game at Kiel Auditorium Jan. 
19. This trophy is presented annually to the out­standing high school football team in the St. Louis metropolitan area. 
JAMES J. O'NEAL 

Toledo 
We ha\-e givvn full publicity to the significant Notre Dame event on. December 7, Communion in a body at the Cathedral and after a breakfast, as well as a talk by one of our diocesan priests. 
BOB SCHRAMM, our 1947 president, has re­signed from the club and is heading for California with our wishes for the best of luck and a hearty thanks for bis work with the club o\'er the past years. JACK MALONE has been mox-ed into the president's spot with K.\RL SYRING and BOB SHTHE N continuing as treasurer and secretary respectively. 
Plans arc underway for our annual Christmas dance Friday De c 26 at the Crystal Room, Com­raodore Perry Hotel. BOB MITHEN 
Tri-Cities 
On Feb. 17 of this year a small group of us met at the K. of C. club in Da\'enport and reor^nized the Tri-City Notre Dame Club. 
RALPH CORYN, '22, 5cr\ed as temporary chair­man and we elected officers: JACK McDONNELL, '35, was elected president; AL ERSKINE, '42, vice president; VANCE UHLMEYER, '32, treasurer, and BILL BERNBROCK, '25, secretary. Directors elected were: RALPH CORYN. JERRY ARNOLD, FRED FLYNN, ED MEAGHER, BILL McNEIL and RALPH EHR, 
We had several activities since our first meeting. A diimer part)* at the Fort .Armstrong Hotel in Rock Island, to which the women were inWted, pro\*ed to be very successful. The ladies joined us again on a moonlight excursion, up the Mississippi later in the suouner and we all had such a good time that we plan to arrange another trip next year. 
The club was losing a little of its' initial drive when HENRY WURZER of Davenport took over as Foundation Governor and gave us all a shot in the arm with his talks of an active Tri-City club. 
At a meeting on Nov. 5, President McDONNELL resigned because of other duties which would not permit him to participate as actively as he thought a club president should. Jack did a swell job and has gotten the ball rolling now. We all o\t'e Jack a vote of thanks for his efforts. Jack is now manager of the Linwood Stone Products Co., which carries a great deal of responsibility. AL ERSKINE is talung Jack's place. Henry Wurzer told us all about the N. D. Foundation, after which we had refreshments. MOON MULLINS showed pictures of the N. D.-Seahawk game. 
Plans were made at our meeting on the 5th to have a Communion Breakfast on Dec. 7. STEVE MILLER, TO?CY CORYN, RALPH EHR and JACK IIICKEY were appointed, with Steve as chairman, to make all the necessary arrangements. We look forward to a big turnout. 
BILL BERNBROCK 

Twin Cities 
The club announces it will hold its .Annual Christ­mas Ball in the Continental Room of the St. Paul Hotel, Dec. 27. This is alwa>-s one of the out­standing social events of the Twin Cities and is anxiously looked forward to by hundreds of alumni and thur friends. The annual parties started in 1925 and have been held annually except during-the four war years. 
The club met at Glueks Brewer>- on Dec. 6th to listen to the Notre Dame-Southem Calif, game. 
On Dec. 7 the members joined the thousands of Notre Dame men throughout the world in National Communion Sunday. Mass was held at St. Thomas CoU^e at nine o'clock and' a breakfast served im­mediately afterwards. 
Practically all the news this month concerns the distafT side of the club, although the secretary, VINCE SHIELY, '42, jumped off the deep end and hone>-mooned in South Bend. Tliree of the four 
. ushers and best man were N. D. men and in­cluded ROBERT M. ROGERS, president of the club; JOE SHIELY, '37; and JIM SHIELY, '40. 
The following is an account of the party which the wives gave for their husbands. It was penned by Mrs. EDWARD KRICK with the notadon to club members still in the celibate state that "you can see what )'ou're missing." 
The party was given in the home of &fr. and Mrs. A. W. (Marie and Mac) McAHH^LEN of 1828 Wcllesley Ave. (St. Paul) and was attended in costtmie by about fifty guests. 
The recreation room, where there was dancing and a smorgasbord, was decorated in Halloween motiL Upstairs were \'arious games in progress and the usual harmonizing—college style of the '^roaring twenties" around the piano. 
Some of the costumes were really choice and re­^Taled personalities surprising even to their, one-time classmates. TOM and ALICE KLAHON were Mexi­can peons in some authentic, gaudyhued stufT they acquired during their stay in the South. JACK and MARY YELLAND were another colorful couple. Tbey came as Romany gypsies. The GERALD McKAYS of Kfinneapolis were in blackface and so %vel]-done c\-en their pals were puzzled. 
DOC RALPH LEE as a Chinese coolie and his 
The'Philadelphia Foundation committee. Sealed ot head of table ore co-^ohr-vrife as Carmen Aliranda (who doubled at the 
{nano in some very fancy boogie-woogie} were a 
men Dr. Edword Lyons, '29, and Dan Young, '22. Gathered around them, left to right 
distinct asset to the party. ore T. E. Lewis, of the "Philadelphia Evening Bulletin": Jock Beilly, '33; Resident 
PAUL CASTNER as a top-hatted, aproned mem­Chadec A. Conley, '33; Harold Duke, '30; and Dan Holpin, '31. ber of the Bartenders' Local 999 placarded himself 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 

as "out on strike"—a bit of whimsy much appreci­ated in view of the local troubles along that line. Lolita, his wife, must have had "special permit" from St. Thomas Academy for late leave—or could be son's full dress uniform was stepping out with* out him. LOUIS REGAN's Frances was a most demure little gal of covered wagon daj-s in a dress and bonnet that really served in that era. 
Oh yes—mustnH forget the Belle of the Ball—win­some BILL GUIMONT. He was a statuesque(6 ft. plus) brunette, gowned in a filmy blue dancing frock of chiffon, winterized by long underwear and worn with wool socks and track shoes. His en­chanting smile was enhanced by some startling re­movable bridge-work. 
It was a wonderful party and we hope to repeat it in the not too far future. 
Tucson 
On Wednesday Nov. 5, the club had the largest gathering it has ever had. Twelve were present. The present officers asked for an election of new officers but due to the present activities relating to the Foundation and the ND-USC game it ^vas decided to postpone elections until January-. 
City Chairman of the Foundation JIM MURPHY, '38, explained the Foundation, invited discussion and appointed.a working committee of five to meet and give weekly reports. 
.Among those present who will attend the ND­USC game are FRANK GEDDES, '37, TIM KING, '37, CHRIS REILLY, e.x '33, and TED WITZ, ex '29. Ted was fortunate enough to have u business trip to Chicago at such a time as to allow him to attend the ND-Army game. 
Others present at our meeting were ELMER BESTEN, '27, VICTOR BLONG, ex '41, CHAS. KENNEDY, ex '42, JOHN P. KING, ex '34, JIM REILLY, who is re-entering N.D. in February, and DR. JESSE H. ROTH, '10. 
PAUL J. DUFAUD 

Tulsa 
On Nov.' 5 members of the club gathered for the purpose of discussing the Notre Dame Founda­tion. WALTER MORAN, the Oklahoma chairman, is heading the drive and all members present offered enthusiastic support. 
Christmas dance chairman CLAY MURRAY, '37, announced that plans for the annual affair arc progressing nicely. 
Communion Sunday was obser^'ed this year, as usual, with a breakfast following Mass and Com­munion. 
JOE LANTRY is seriously ill and his presence at the club meetings is greatly missed. 

The following club members attended the Notre Dame-Army game: ED LEROUX, WALTER MOR­.\N, J. A. LA FORTUNE, JOHN MORAN, LOYD WORLEY, JOE McGRA\V, LARRY ENGLERT and JERRY DONNOVAN. 
Three members announce births: Daughter, Ann, to Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Reidy, '37, June 25; Son, Patrick, to Mr. and Mrs. Afartin J. Reidy, '30, July 9; Son, Stephen, to Mr. and ifrs. Carl J. Senger, '37, Oct. 1. FRANK J. REIDY 
Wosftingf on, D. C. 
PAT CONWAY, vice-president, presided at the regular monthly meeting on Monday, Oct. 13, at the Carlton Hotel, at which BOB CAVANAUGH, chairman of the club's Board of Go\*ernors and financial adviser to John J. McCIoy, president of the International Bank for Reconstruction and De­velopment, was the principal speaker. 
He gave an interesting and instructive talk on his recent trip to England in behalf of the International Bank. 
VAN DEALE, chairman of the Christmas dance committee, announced that the dance will be held at the Carlton Hotel on Dec. 28. 

Club members and their guests gathered in the banquet room of the Carlton Hotel for a Navy game rally on Nov. 1, where they listened to the broadcast. PAUL TULLY was chairman of the rally. 
A directory of Notre Dame men in the Washington area compiled under the chairmanship of BILL KARL was distributed to dub members last month. 
HAROLD V. BOISVERT 
CLUB LUNCHEONS 
AKBON — Kroker'* Old HaidalbMg Bestcnirant—cTery fint Tuesday 
CENTRAL OHIO (Colmnbtis) — Uni­
•ersity Club—every Monday 
CHICAGO—Deutsch's Bestauiant 28 
N. Dearborn SL—eveiy tfaird Wed­nesday 
DES MOINES — Savoy Hotel—every first Friday 
INDIANAPOLIS — Canary Cottage — every Tuesday 
MILWAnEEE — Maryland Hotel — every Thursday 
ST. LOUIS — Victorian Club. 3719 Washington Ave. — every Monday (12:15) 
OTHER CLUB MEETINGS 
CINCINNATI — Hotel Ahns — every second Tuesday (6:30 p. m.) 
FLORIDA (Miami) — Downtown Club —every first Monday (5:30 p. m.) 
NEW lERSEY—Essex House. Newark ^-every first Monday 
NEW YORK — Waldorf-Astoria Hotel —every second Wednesday (8 pan.) 

Wisconsin—So. Central 
The club has set up two important dates: 
Dec. 27, 1947—Semiformal Dinner Dance, Park Hotel, Madison, Wisconsin. 
March 7, 1948—Holy Communion, St. Raphael's G a t h e dral, Afadison, Wisconsin. 

We are planning to have one or two repre­sentatives of the present football team at the banquet- The flinncr and the music will be the best that is to be had. Each Notre Dame du b member is privileged to invite one guest couple. TTie price of the event will be $10 per couple. As the maximum number who can be accommodated will be 100 couples, it is important that all who choose to attend forA\'ard their irhecks at once to RUBE GRUNDEMAN, secretary. Box 9, Madison. 
The club has also designated March 7, 1W8, Lae­tarc Sunday, as Holy Commiinion Sunday for the club. This is to take place at 9 a.m. at St. Raphael's Cathedral, Madison. Msgr. William Mahoney is most pleased to accommodate m and is looking for­ward to a large attendance. He is designating a special part of the church for the dub, so please make it a i>oint to receive Holy Communion with the club. 
Breakfast will be ser\-ed immediately after mass at the Park Hotel in Madison, at which time a meeting will also be held. Let's start making ar­rangements now to attend these two noteworthy events. 
JOHX W. ROACH 

IToungstown 
The dub had a successful smoker at the Youngs­town Hotel on Oct. 28. JIM BRUTZ showed movies of the Illinois game to the 50 guests present, and members of the Ursuline high school coaching staff spoke bnefly. The dub gave a rousing wel­come to JUDGE JOHN J. BUCKLEY, who was tnakins his fint appeanmce at a dob gadKri^ since hb serious iHness of last sprxiv. 
PETE SHEEHAN, president of the (&b. con­pleted anangements for a Man oo Jlotn Dnae Communion Sonday, De c 7, in rncaury of A ^ members who lost their Uves in World War I t BrcakCut was scheduled to be served at the Tod Hotd. ^ 
The club is planning to cooperate with the stu­dent dub in .the dance it is sponsoring on Dec 27, 
Ex-FigUmg Irish SWM fn Professional Football 
For decades Irish football teams have dominated the college gridiron picture To­day that dominance has been extended to the pro ranks, for 33.former Irish greats are now playing in the National I,eague and Ail-American Conference; no other school has as many. Only four of the teams in the two major leagues do not have at least one Notre Dame player. 
Wayne Millner was one of the first .former Irish stars to make good in pro-play. He made the all-league team quite regularly while playing for Washington. 
Last year another former Notre Darner, Elmer Angsman, playing for the Cardinals,­took the National League ground gaining honors, averaging 6.8 yards per try. 
In the All-American Conference last year 
Steve Nemcth placed fourth in the scoring column, piling up fifty-nine points, all via the toe.- Lou Zontini and Steve Juzwik -both were well up in that column with Nemeth. Vic Kulbitski and Juzwik ended high in the rushing department. The latter made the all-conference team last year. In the National League "Tree" Adams grabbed the first-string tackle spot, with Jim White 
garnering second-team honors. 
This fall the pros have been flooded with Irish. The Buffalo Bills lead with six. Buffalo, being a strong Notre Dame town, likes the idea and the Bills arc playing them up big. George Ratterman has been given the title of Mr. Football and is packing the stadiimi. With Ratterman at Buffalo are Juzwik, Kulbitski, Rykovich, George Terlep, Vince Scott and Lou ZontinL 
The Rockets are next with four ex-Irish: Dippy Evans, Angelo Bertelli, Herb Coleman and Bob Dove. Los Angeles' Rams and Boston's Yanks have representatives. The Ram alumni are Steve Bagarus, Jerry Cow­hig, and Jack Zilly. Jim Mello and Boley Dancewicz are the Boston representatives. 
The Giants have White and George To­bin. Green Bay has Tom Brock and Bob Skoglund, the Browns own John Yonakor and Lou Rymkus. The Dons have Bob Kelly and Steve Nemeth; the Baltimore Colts own Luke Higgins, while the Yan­kees hold Chuck Riifle's contract. The' Cardinals possess Angsman; Detroit has Frank Szymanski; "Tree" Adams dons a Redskin uniform; and Pittsburgh starts John Mastrangclo at guard. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

THE ALUMNI » » » » 
BROTHER JUSTIN DWYER, C.S.C., '32, died 
Bngagements Birfhs 
of a heart attack Nov. 8 in the community infirmary Mr. and Mrs. JERRY CLAEYS, Jr., '37, a son, a
at Notre Dame after long illness. 
Miss Jane G. Gulp and JOHN S. AGLER, Grcgorv-, Sept. 29. 
« . '49. He was born James Dw>er on Oct. 29, 1894, 
Mr. and Mrs. JOH.N J. SOLON, '43, a daughter, 
at Tilting, New­Miss Joan Patrice Schaub and ROBERT P. Kristina Louise, Oct. 2. foundland, the son of 
REILLY, '44. Mr. and Mrs. Walter 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. McNERNEY, '34, a 
DwTcr. He entered daughter, Nov. 21. 


Miss Jcrcne Nicdcrwimmcr and JOHN L. 
the Congregation of BRESLIN, '43. 

Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES EG.\N, '46. a daughter. Holy Cross on Jan. 23, 1922, and received an 
\ov. 7. 
Mbs Jean .-^nne Gustafson and WILLL\M J. 
A.B. degree in 1932 KLI.MA, '35. 

Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT THOMAS, Ph.D., '39, and a master's degree Miss Beatrice Butler MacGuire and Capt. ED-a son, Robert Joseph, Sept. 20. 
in 1936. 

From 1925 to 1928 Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. KENNEDY, '47, a he ser\ed as principal 
Miss Geialdine Lockwood and RAY.MOND J. of Cathedral Hig h 
W.ARD FALLO.V, Jr., ex. '39. 
daughter, Susan Quinn, Sept. 26. ZANDO, '47. School in Indianapolis 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN V. MORi\N, '30, a daugh­
and in 1934 returned ter, Susan Ellen, Sept. 17. 

Miss Marie Vandeu-allc and ROBERT SNYDER, to Notre Dame as rec­'47. tor of Brownson dor-
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J.\COB, '43, a daughter. 
BROTHER JUSTIN mitor>*, where he Miss Mar}- Jane Buse and JAMES R. CLARK, Joanne Mary, Nov. 4. 
•.er\ed until 1937. In Jr., '43. 
1939 was Central high 
school in Fort Wayne, and from 1939 until 1944 Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT H. RAAF, '42, a daugh­ he principal of Catholic 
Miss Betty K>«r and ROBERT J. ME.AGHER, ter, Nanette Marie, Oct. 27. 
he was rector of Carroll dormitor>'. During this '47. 
Mr. and Mrs. THO.MAS F. RYAN, ex. '34, a time he was an associate professor of English. He • son, Timothy Francis, Sept. 30. was inactive during the past year because of his 
illness. -Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. GUI.MONT, '35, 
Marriages 
A Solemn Requiem Mass was celebrated in Sacred a daughter, Mary Anne, May 20. 
.Mrs. Roberta Kellogg and WILLIAM C. Heart Church Nov. 11 at eight o'clock, and intern­SCHMITT, '10, at Notre Dame, Nov. 19. ment was in the community cemeter>- at Notre 
Mr. and Mrs. THO.MAS HUTCHINSON, '38, a 
Dame. Miss Mar\- Elizabelli Mason and WILLLAM 
son, Tlionias, Jr., Sept. 15. Sur\-i\-ing are two brothers and one sister, all of RUNGE, '39, Crawfordsville, Ind., June 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHESTER P. S.ADOWSKI, '39, Newfoundland. Miss Ann Ellen Farlev and EDWARD J. HICK-
a son, Robert Michael. Oct. 21. EY, III, '43, New York, Nov. 22. 
ARCHBISHOP JOHN J. CANTWELL, LL.D., 
Mr. and Mrs. P.ATRICK GREENE, '29, twin daughters. Mary and Fannie, Oct. 24. 
'40, died of a throat infection at the a'^c of 72 in Miss Mar>- Rose Hamilton and MARION J. Los Angeles Oct. 30. The first .irchbi^hop of the HEFFER.\'AX, '28, Louis\ilIe, Ky., Oct. II. Mr. and Mrs. OSCAR VON ALLMEN, a son, Los Angeles diocese, he was a staunch and ardent 
Robert Christian, Nov. 15. advocate of clean movies. Miss Rose Marie Mudd and CARL RATTER­MAN, ex. "37, in Louis%ille, Ky., Oct. 30. Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST P. MAURI.N', Jr.. '38. a son. Paul Frederick. Sept. 22. J. WILLARD JONES, '25. « ^ killed in an Miss ilildred Loncrgan and JOHN Mc\ULIFFE, auto-truck collision near Rochelle, III., Nov. 15. '39, at Notre Dame, Nov. 1. He was a resident of DLxon, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. MELVIN G. MEYERS, '34. a flaughter. Kathleen Mary, Oct. 18. 
GERALD JONES, '22, a brother of the \-ictim Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. SCHERER, '42, a son, 
Miss Gcraldine O'Rourke and BERNARD M. 
and also of Dixon, was the driver of the car, which James Brady, Sept. 26. 
NIEZER, '37, Fort Wayne, Ind., Sept. 20. 
struck a tow truck that had blocked the road as ^ 
it was pulling another car from a ditcli. He suf-Miss Marietta Hart and WILLIAM F. FITZ­
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL H. ANDERSON, '38, a son, GERALD, ex. '46, Joliet, III., Sept. 3. Paul Edward, July 6. 
fered a broken hip and other injuries .Another occupant was critically injured. The party yvas returning from the Notre Dame-Northwestern game Miss Jeanne Yuncker and WILLIAM H. KLEM, .Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. MAHER, '40, a in E\-anston. 
Jr., '45, South Bend, Sept. 3. daughter, Mary Ellen. Sept. 8. Willard, who was an undertaker in Dixon, Mr. and Mrs. PETER JOHNEN. '37, a daugh­is a brother of HERBERT E. JONES, '27, busi­
Miss Helene Vermvlen and WILLI.AM H. SCUL­
ter, Patricia, Oct. 8. ness manager of athletics at the University. 
LY, '43, Nov Rochelle, N. Y., Nov. 6. REV. JAMES MCDONALD, CS.C , represented 
Dr. and Mrs. J. P. CLARKE, '45, a son, PhiUp 
Miss Patricia .Ann Harvey and JOHN R. LIND-Notre Dame at the Solemn Requiem Mass in St. 
Brien, Aug. 22. 
S.\Y, Jr., '46, Chicago, Nov. 1. Patnck's Church in Dixon Nov. 18. The pastor, Re\'. Thomas Walsh, was the celebrant. Burial was 
Dr. and Mrs. KENNETH LAWS, '35, a daugh­Miss Lois Mecklenburg and DONALD H. ter, Patrice Marie, Nov. 16. 
in the parish cemetery. SMrm , '38, South Bend, Oct. 25. Surviving Willard are his wife and seven children, Mr. and Mre. RICHARD RONEY, '32, a daugh­the oldest of whom is 14, his mother, one other Miss Jane Elizabeth Clark and THOMAS F. 
ter. Sheila, Nov. 24. brother, and two sisters. GRADY, '41, New York, Sept. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES QUINN. '34, a son, Kexin Gerard, Sept. 11. 
DR. FABIAN J. BURKE, '25, died on Nov. 15 ex. '43, at Notre Dame, Oct. 11. 
Miss Margaret Ann Foley and JOSEPH F. H.\.AS,. 
in St. Louis of injuries suffered when he u'as struck by an automobile while crossing a street. 
Deaths
Miss Laurie O'.Meara and JAMES A. VARGA, Dr. Burke was born in Elsworth, Minn., in 1904, '40, Green Ridge, Pa., Nov. 15. and attended St. Louis University Medical School 
MARCEL C. DeBECK, '35, R.R. 1, New Car­
after graduating from Notre Dame. He was a senior Miss Xiarie Vandeiralle and ROBERT M. SN'Y-instructor in internal medicine at the Medical 
lisle, Ind., died Oct. 18 of a cerebral hemorrhage 
in St. Joseph's hospital in South Bend. 
DER, '47. South Bend, Nov. 29. School, specializing in heart diseases. He had prac-Born in Mishawaka June 14, 1909, he operated . ticed medicine in St. Louis for the last 16 years. DeBeck's Sanitary Dair>* in that cit)'. He was a
Miss Rose Mar>- Varga and EDWARD H. WIL-MoDsignor Stech celebrated a Solemn High Mass 
member of the Knights of Columbus and the Cham* 
HELMI, '47, South Bend, Nov. 29. in St. Gabriel's Church; Rev. Patnck HoUoran, S.J., 
ber of Commerce. 
president of St. Louis Uni\'ersity, was also present ^­Miss Martha Taghon and JAMES J. FRED-The funeral mass was celebrated in St. Bavo's on the altar. Two Notre Dame men. Dr. Matt Wj LAKE, ex. '46, South Bend, Nov. 29. Church in Mishawaka on Oct. 21 by Rev. Otto J. Weis and Dr. Bill McGuire, ser\-ed as pallbearers. Keller. Interment was in Fair\aew mausoleum. Burial was in Resurrection cemetery. Miss Helen Canfield and C. DO.NALD SCON-Survi\ing are his widow, parents, three children, Survmng arc Fabian's wife, three sons, and four FIETTI, '37, Herkimer, N. Y., Nov. 29. and two brothers. daughters. 
Volume 25. No. 6, December, 1947 

RAYMOND J. SCANLAN, ex. MO, of 1533 E. 37th St., Brooklyn, died Nov. 23 in Methodist Hospital in New York after a short illness at. the age of 61. 
A chemical engineer and insurance broker, he was a former member of the board of directors of the Notre Dame Club of New York and was vice-president and district captain of the Kings High­way Democratic Club. Dike starred in football, baseball, and basketball at Notre Dame. He was captain of the baseball team which toured the 
U.S. and became the virtual champion. 
A Requiem Mass was said in Roman Catholic Church of St. Thomas Aquinas, Brooklyn. Inter­ment was in St. Joseph^s cemetery. Queens. 
Surviving are the widow, three sons, two broth­ers, and four sisters. 
JAIME L. CREEL, '37, cf Puebia 223, Mexico 

D. F., Mexico, drowned last October while at­tempting to save a cousin. No other details are avaiable as the * 'Alumnus'' goes to press except that the drowning occurred on his ranch. 
He is 5Ur\-ived by his wife and three children. 

DR. WILLIAM A. O'BRIEN, ex. M2, of 1589 Northrop St., St. Paul, Minn., died Nov. 15 in Minneapolis at the age of 54. 
Director of postgraduate medical education and professor of preventative medicine and public health at the Unix'ersity of Minnesota, he was one of the most prominent Catholic laymen in the state. He conducted a weekly radio program, wrote a daily column on medicine, spoke at numerous commence­ment programs, was much in demand ts an after-dinner speaker and toastmaster, and was a member of the board of directors of the American Cancer Society and president of the group's Minnesota branch. 
Dr. E. A. Meycrding, executive secretary of the Minnesota Public Health Association, said that "we have lost a great humanitarian who sacrificed him­self to aid all movements for a betterment of pub­lic health.'* State medical and education leaders, including the president of the University of Afinne­sota, joined in praising Dr. O'Brien's work. 
Dr. O'Brien attended Notre Dame in 1908-09 before entering the St. Louis University School of Medicine, from which he was graduated in 1914. He, along vnth his brother James, '13, played on the St. Joseph Hall football team that won the interhall championship. 
The funeral Ma-'p was celebrated in Corpus 

Christ! Church. anJ burial was in St. Mar>''s 
cemetery. Minneapolis. Dr. John Culligan, *15, was 
a pallbsarcr. Among the Notre Dame men attend­
ing the funeral were John C. Burk?, '14, and Law­
rence Lajoie. *I5. 
Sur\'iving are ihe widaw and six children. 
DR. WILLIAM A. GL.ASIER. '33, of Carbbad, 

N. M.. was killed Oct. 29 in a plane crash in the Guadalupe Mountains of New Mexico. He was piloting the plane on an emergency' sick call when the crash occurred. 
Dr. Glosier 5er\ed in the Air Corps as a flight 

surgeon during W*orld War II. He held the rank of 
lieutenant-colonel. 
He is survived by his parents. 

REV. GEORGE R. BELTING, '34, died in his home. 2034 W. 91st St.. Cleveland, Ohio, on Aug. 19 at the age of 35 after a long illness. He had been on sick leave from St. James Church, Lakewood, Ohio, where he was assistant pastor, since January, 1946. Although seriously ill. he had offered Mass whenever possible. 
After graduating from Notre Dame Father Belt­ing was an accountant at the main office of the Cleveland Trust Co. for several >'ears before enter­ing the seminary. He studied at St. Marj* Seminar>­in Cleveland and St. Thomas Seminary in Denver, Colo. He was ordained in 1945. -i 
.Auxiliao* Bishop Floyd L. Begin offered Solemn Mass in St. James Church Aug. 22. Officers of the Mass were Rev. Walter E. Conley, assistant priest; Rev. Thomas C. Corrigan, deacon; Rev. John F. 
Whealon, subdeacon; and Rev. Charles J. Ritty, master of ceremonies. Rev. Daniel T. Gallagher, pastor of St. James, preached. Burial was in the family plot in Calvary cemetery. 
Father Belting leaves his father and a brother. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to REV. FREDERICK T. McKEON, C.S.C, '02, on the death of his brother; to GERALD SGHRO­ERING, '46, on the death of his mother; to THOMAS £. BURNS, '46, on the death of his father; to PHILIP STEROPOLI, '43, on the death of his father; to HERB JONES, '27 and GERALD JONES, '22, on the death of their brother; to ROBERT M. MARSHALL, '31, on the death of his wife; to JOSEPH A. LAUCK, '47, on the death of his father; to ARTHUR T. '31, and JOH.V W. McMANMON, '28, on the death of their mother; to WILLIAM O'CONNELL, '45, on the death of his father. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
WILLIAM J. MOONEY, '15, was elected president of the National Wholesale Druggists' Association at the 73rd annual convention in Atlantic City. 
The president of Mooney-Mueller-Ward Company, wholesale druggists, of Indianap­olis, entered the employ of that company shortly after receiving his LL.B. at Notre Dame. His work with the company was in­terrupted only by World War I, when he 
W. I. MOONEY. '15 

served as a lieutenant in the Field Artillery. 
Bill served for several years as chair­man of various committees of the Na­tional Wholesale Druggists Association, in­cluding the legislative committee. In 1946 he was elected to the Board of Control. 
He is director of the American National Bank, Indianapolis; the Indianapolis chap­ter of the American Red Cross, and the In­dianapolis Chamber of Commerce, and has long been one of the most active and inter­ested Notre Dame men in Indianapolis. He served for several years as a director of the national Alumni Association. He is the father of two girls and two boys. 
Persoaofs 
Before 1900 
LUCIEN C. WHEELER, who recei^xd a footbaU monogram In 1897, has his own investigatiiis bu­reau in HfJlywood, Calif. He was formerly agent io charge of the F.B.I. in Los Angeles, was in the 
U. S. Secret Service, and in the District Attorney's office in Los Alleles. 
 IGchattl L, Moiiaily, S t 

1910 B«T, 
Catherine's Churcfa, 3443 E. 93rd SU QeYeland 4« O. 

From FATHER KHKE: Herewith news, notes, and observations regardii^ ' 1910—utterly without the " I predict" sort of thix^. 
Top news—BILL SCHlknTT—student, athlete, in­dustrialbt—all working into the **He's a* Notre Dame Ihfein" pattern—was married at the . wdl known Log Chapel on Nov. 19. FATHER CAVA­NAUGH witnessed the ceremony and presided. Heartiest greetings from the class. 
BILL and STEVE HERR and the baldfaeaded pastor from St. Catherine's seemed to make up the class delegation at the Army festivities. 
FOOT RUEL, a comideiable 1910 person, came through recently with an unusual picture wluch took in SAM DOLAN, GIBSON, DYKE SCAN­LAN, GENE CONNELLY and himself. It must be set in circulation. 
RED MILLER, dictating %nth his usual facility and fluency, reports a delightful visit with Scarsdale BILL COTTER. He makes us eager to see Bill's collection of pictures of the Golden Age of Notre Dame. 
101 9 BL J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth SU I T I A KtlsbtirgK Pa. 
ROBERT E. (PETE) VAUGHAN, long promi­nent in fiigb school and college athletics, reigned as athletic director at Wabash College in Craw­fordsville, Ind., to assume the management of a botding works. 
FRED J. STEWART is port en^neer and acting manager of strategically located and n'er expanding Fort E\-ergIades, 25 miles north of Kfiami, Fla. 
IQIKIc'Bi** & Sanford 501 Cheirr I T 1 9 St Wumetko, DL 
SYGFRYD T. KOWALSKI W3s elected dty Judge of South Bend on the Democratic ticket last month. 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER, president of Hunter College in New York City, addressed the opening session of the University of Chicago's fifth Imtitute for -Religious and Social Studies. "Teaching a faith in God and practicing the brotherhood of man will conquer more worlds than any megalomaniac—from .Alexander of Macedon to Hider of yesterday—e\*er thought of mastering," he told the Institute. 
1M 1 Dan W. Duffy. 1600 Termmal IT A I Tower, Cleveland. O. 
ARCH WARD, sports editor of the ."Chicago Tribune.*' has' been appointed Chicago city chair­man of the Foundation committee. 
109 9 ^^^*^ Ashe, 39 Camhridge St. 
•'^ ^ Rochester 7 N. Y. 
From KID .ASHE: 
For a long time we have been wanting to fire some salvos in salute to those of our class who were our athletic heroes back in the years of our stay at Notre Dame. Although this is the football season, we are not going to stress the football men in particular, but rather we pay tribute to those who competed in all branches of sport. Of course, we fuHy appreciate that present-day athletic teams Alma Kfater is sending forth are first dass in all respects; ne%'erthele£i, we are not selling short the athbtic teams of our own day m comparison. Don't you remember the undefeated, untied football teams of 1919 and 1920? Also, that great but once-beaten football team of 1921 which defeated Anny, 2&-0? Then coming back three days later (Election Day) to defeat a good Rutgers team, 46^? 
As a gentle reminder, we are listing those of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1922 who competed In sports in our undergraduate daj-s. It is wonderful to know that, with few ex­ceptions, these men are as loyal to 1922 today, as they were during da>-s of athletic competition. We are not showing all branches of sport in which every indix'idual wss entered, but rather the sports in which they excelled. Here we go: DR. EDDIE ANDERSON, footbaU; HEARTLEY "HUNK" ANDERSON, football; ED BAILEY, track; FRED BAUMER, track; DANNY COUGHLIN, football and basketball; CHARLIE CROWLEY, football; JIM DOOLEY, footbaU; VINCE HANRAHAN. tennis; JAMES BARRY HOLTOX. football; JACK HUETHER, track; DR. JOHN KELLEY, track; ROGER KILEY, football and basketball; GENE KENNEDY, basketball; HARRY MEHRE, foot­ball; FRANK MILES, baseball; DR. JOHN MO­HARDT, football; EDDIE PFEIFFER, tennis; BOB PHELAN, football; GEORGE PROKOP, football; SYLVESTER STEINLE, baseball; LAW­RENCE "BUCK" SHAW, football; EARL AVALSH, football; CHET WYNNE, football. Possibly ive have missed some of the boj-s who performed for ND in our era, if so, please charge It up to a 
failing memor)'. 
Do you know that the forward pass combination GIPP TO KILEY is still classed among the greatest, also, that the same distinction goes for the ND backfield combination composed of BRANDY, GIPP, MOHARDT AND \>TNNE. 
GENE KENNEDY Is still so sports minded that he took a trip to Sun Valley, Idaho, early in 1947 in lieu of attending our 25tli Annlversar>- Reunion —the old ski jumper. 
Now a few words about those of 1922 who are in the coaching profession. DR. EDDIE ANDER­SON startled the sports world with an announce­ment on the eve of the Io\%-a game with Minnesota that he was resigning as football coach of Iowa at the end of the present season. Apparently, Eddie's bo\-5 did not particularly like the thought of his going, so they reacted violently by defeating a highly favored Minnesota team. They hope the Iowa Athletic Control Board refuses to accept Eddie's resignation. In our book Eddie is a mighty fine chap, and deserx'cs the best. (The latest word is that the Board of Athletic Control refuses to ac­cept his resignation and Eddie uill continue in his present capacities.) 
Old reliable HEARTLEY "HUNK" ANDER­SON is still in there moulding football lines for the Chicago Bears who are alwa\-s at or near the top in professional football. We like to recall the wonderful tribute that Graniland Rice paid to Hunk about three years ago. Grantland, who has been one of the best sports writers and commen­tators over some decades of years, who has wit­nessed thousands of athletes in every branch of sport—boxing, football, baseball, basketball, hockey, etc.,—said he believed Hunk .Anderson was pound for pound the toughest one of them all. 
BUCK SHAW is doing verA,- well with his San Francisco *49ers In professional footbaU. He has In his backfield some of the 1940 greats of Stanford. HARRY MEHRE, formerly of the Univenity of Georgia and University of Mississippi, is m longer actively • engaged in coaching. Hairy is vice-presi­dent of a soft drink concern. Harr>-, ^vho carried the nickname "Horse" in his undergraduate da>-5, conducts a Kfonday Quarterback column for the "Atlanta Constitution." Harr>-'s comments are so interesting and so sought after that about fifteen other important newspapers in the South have con­tracted to carry his column. Harr>- lives in Atlanta. 
Congratulations to the DR. DAN SEXTONS of St. Louis on the birth of a son, the first boy In the Sexton family of four children. Dr. Dan re­cently attended a medical conference at the Uni­versity of Penns>'K'ania. 
Many thanks to DAN YOUNG, the very able guest conductor of the 1922 column in the October **Alumnus." When Dan sets out to do anj-thlng for 1922, the sky is the limit. 
Dan writes in that Lor, Betty and he were out 
for the Army game. RUTH and BILL C\STEL­
LINI met them at Plymouth, Ind., Saturday morn­
ing and chauffered thcci around all day. They sta>-ed 
at Mn . LEO MAHONEY'S home. MORGAN SHEE­
DY dropped in on them Saturday night and the 
bull session \t'ent on until past midnight. Julia 
Mahoney's son, Bernard, is In the seminary at N.D., and she thinks that another, now in the Army in Japan, is headed for the same place. 
Dan ran into quite a few at the game—MARTIN BRENNAN, RAUB, JIMMY MARTIN, JOHNNY MOHARDT, ARDO and ROMAINE REICHERT from Minnesota, DANNY COUGHLIN, HUGUE­NARD, BOB PHELAN, and F.ATHER BOB GALLAGHER. 
1923 Paul H. Casiner. 1305 W. Ming-ton Ave. SL Paul. BCnn. 
From PAUL CASTNER: 
1 saw the follouing membeis of the '23 class at the Army game: JOE NYIKOS, with whom we 5ta>-cd, LOUIS BRUGGNER, FRANK DORIOT, NEIL FLINN, FRED JOYCE, LES LOGAN, JOHN ROHRBACH, MERLIN ROLWING, BILL VOSS and RICHARD CORDRAY. I talked to FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH on the phone, but with his busy schedule (as well as my own) I did not get to sec him. 
I imagine that there must have been at least 100 of the class there, but in the confusion of a foot-
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
The REV. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, '26, recently was elected president of the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Charities at a meeting in New Orleans. 
Father Toomey, active in Catholic chari­ties work for the past 16 years, has been director of Diocesan Charities and Welfare in Syracuse, N. Y., since 1943. He had previously established charities offices in Binghamton and Endicott, N. Y. 
REV. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, '26 

The priest-alumnus has been president of the New York State Conference on Social Work, which represents all faiths and all public and private welfare agencies. He has been chairman of th Diocesan Directors of Charities in the United States. 
Because of his activities in the Council of Social Agencies' programs throughout cen­tral New York State, he was appointed by Governor Dewey as a member of the Board of Visitors of the Syracuse State School. He is also a trustee of the National Health and Welfare Foundation. 
ball %ireek-cnd, with many coming in just for the  ^  
game, it H-asn't my good fortune to run into them.  \  
FRANK DORIOT wrote to me last month and  
enclosed a |ncture of a baby. I thought this was  
another grandchild, but the notice reads as follows—  
**we have had our first baby and it is a beautiful  
little ^rl, Frances Fa>-e Doriot, bom March 24,  
1947—she certainly is a darling." For the class of  
'23 this is neu3. Frank is running the Doriot Dis­ 
tributing Co., 1202 4th Avenue, Huntington, W. Va.  
The products he handles are too numerous to list  
but the main lines are commercial refrigerators and  
farm and home food freezers. He is definitely  
going to be there for Commencement next June.  
I saw Frank, Les Logan, Bill Voss and Neil  
Flinn at the Monogram Club get-together on Sat­ 
urday before the game. It's the first time I have  
seen Neil Flinn on the Notre Dame campus since  
1923, but he is going to be there in June. So are  
all the rest of the class listed above.  
We sat next to Fred Joyce and his wife at the  
game. Merlin Rolu-ing paid us a visit at the  
N>ikos home, as did John Rohrbach with his son  
and a very lovely flaughter. Louis Bruggner and  
his wife were with us too, and Richard Cordray  
also paid the N>ikos home a call and we saw him  
there.  
I met Bill Voss* wife, Neil Flinn's wife, and  ™  
others, but I do want to take a little space to say  
that Joe Nyikos has a grand family, starting with  
his lovely and gracious wife, Ann, and two lovely  
daughters. Mrs. Castncr, m>-self and Paul Jr., had  
a most cnjo>abIe week end at their home.  
I'd like to hear from other class members who  
are coming back next June, and I hope that JOHN  
MONTAGUE, DICK NASH, and ED GOULD  
will soon get togther with Joe Nyikos and Louis  
Bruggner to get the plans rolling for our 25th  
reunion.  
I would be remiss not to compliment FRANK  
LEAHY and his coacliing staff, and the team for  
the fine game they played against a very good  
Army team. It was a beautiful exhibition of fine  
football and the class of '23 salutes all of them in  
their great victorj*.  

FRANK THOMAS, athletic director at Alabama University, has returned to Tuscaloosa greatly im­proved in health after a 12-wcck treatment for high blood pressure at Duke University. 
1924 
TOM KING, JR., is the new publidst at Chicago Stadium. 
WILLIAM F. GREAVY, JR., is maitre d'hotel at the Southern Hotel in Baltimore, Md. 
1925 John P. Hurley. The Toledo Par­lor Furniture Co., Toledo. O. 
From GEORGE DRISCOLL: 
There were 10 graduates in CKil Engineering in 1925. Tofiay two reside in foreign countries, JOSE FIGUEIREDO in Brazil and ARTURO GONZALES in Mexico. 
Of the other eight, six and their wives were in South Bend for the Army game. They are JERRY HERLIHY, of the State Highway Department, Ottawa, HI.; AfYHON HOOD, Beer Processing, Cincinnati, O.; BEN RESTING, Comte Construc­tion Co., Toledo, O.; ROBERT (SLICK) O'NEIL, Chicago Water • Works Dept.; BILL SEIDEN­STICKER, W. J. Seidensticker Construction Co., Columbus, O.; and GEORGE DRISCOLL, in­structor in Ci\Tl Engineering at Notre Dame. 
The group held a reunion attended by REV. THOMAS A. STEINER, C.S.C., and PROF. FRANK HORAN. Crashing the party as welcome guests were MR. and MRS. PAUL HARTiMN, '25, Pittsburgh, Pa.; MR. and MRS. PAUL DOO­LEY, '25, Toledo, O.; and MR. and MRS. JOHN M,^ LODER, '23, Columbus, O. ^ 
EUSTACE CULLINAN, Jr., foraaerly a com­mander in the USNR, is now a judge in San Fiandscp. 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
109^ ^^ ^ ^- ^nuaer. Box 661, Iron­•'«>woo<LliCcli. 
By BILL DOOLEY: 

The Army game brought the largest concentration of alumni in the history of the University, and '26ers were around too, and in large numben. Here and there that weekend I saw ART BIDWILL, LEO CANTWELL, VINCE CAPANO, DR. BERT COUGHLIN, FATHER BERNIE COUGHLIN, ANDY CONLIN, BOB DOLEZAL, RAY DURST, ED FALLON, ROME FELDPAUSCH, PAUL FLEMING, ART HALEY, JOHN 0»DONNELL, DUTCH O'DAY, DAN O'NEILL, JIM RONAN, JOHN RYAN, VINCE SOISSON, GERRY SMITH and WADE SULLIVAN. Among other *26ers here were FATHER JOE TOOMEY (lately elected president of the National Conference of Catholic Charities), FRANK HURLEY, JOHN LEAHY, JIM DWYER, JOHN ROACH and TED LEY, 
Then, of course, there v,-as the *26 man in the Administration, FATHER HOWARD KENNA, G.S.C., director of studies, who was busy receiving bishops and other dignitaries. 
At the Notre Dame club party in Lafayette the night before the Purdue game I saw both ED KEATING, a local attorney, and JOHN WAGNER, who is working in Hammond, Ind., for the War 
f Assets Administration. At a club meeting in Michi­gan City, Ind., a bit later I had a long talk with PAUL JACKSON who runs the local outdoor ad­vertising outfit and lives on a small farm. GERRY McGINLEY, Foundation governor for Nebraska, was in for the Nebraska game and for the governors* meeting which went with it. 
The Na\-y game in Cleveland produced DENNY O'NEILL, ED LYNCH, CHUCK MOONEY and doubtless many others. BOB GRAHAM, York, Pa., was in the office last summer with his family, en route to Galesburg, III., the old home stand. JOE NAVARRE, Jackson, Mich., was down for at least one of the games, and so was JIM PEARSON of Flint. JOHN WALLACE, Calumet region Pack­ard dealer, appears frequently, and so docs VINCE GOULET, Chicago. WARD LEAHY is division superintendent for the New York Central in Cleve­land. 
You've noticed by now that JOHN CONTWAY (Boy Guidance man in our class) and TOMMY FARRELL were two of the nominees this year for directorships in - the Alumni Association. DAN CULHANE (another Boy Guidance man in our class, following an earlier N. D. degree) is president of the Notre Dame Club in Washington. D. C, and was prominent in the Second Annual Club Council ^ on Nov. 21-22. FATHER LEO GORMAN, C.S.C, ^ is now at Kings College, Wilkes-Barre, PennsyK-ania. 
At least Hve '26 men had sons enter Notre Dame this year. They are ROME FELDPAUSCH, ART HALEY, JIM KELLEGHAN, AL NACHTEGALL and DENNY O'NEILL. ART BIDWILL'S son has been here for some time. DOC GELSON'S son is in his second year in a Jesuit seminary. Bring on more news about those sons—and daughters. Any grandfathers in the class yet? 
From VIC LEMMER: Various publications, including the "Alumnus," have carried rumors that James A. Farley's memoirs were written by WALTER TROHAN. It is now definitely known that Walter, who is head of the Washington Bureau of the "Chicago Tribune," did write them. The book is in the hands of the printers and will be published in early March. 
MOOSE KRAUSE spent a part of his summer at Mercer, Wis., where we have a summer cottage. He was at ALEC WILSON'S Loyola Summer Camp for boys. 
The class secretary doses his report with a plea for news from members of the class. Letters and more letters is his request—he received only one in the last three months. 
DAVID P. STANTON, president of the Gan', ^ Ind., Bar Association, addressed the Shell Club W Marriage Clinic in the K. of C. home on Nov. 11. 
He spoke on the general causes of divorce and said that "the great laxity and the statutory ground for divorce based on 'cruel and inhuman' treatment has found great elasticity in its construction by the lower courts." 
WINK WINGERTER has transferred to the Diesel Locomoti\-e Division of General Motors in New York City. He was with Bendix Aviation. 
1927 Joseph M. Bolemd. Rodio Statioii WSBr South BmuL lad. 
From JOE BOLAND: Greetings from a football^crazy spieler to )-ou, my sane and sensible friends! Most of the '27 news this time revolves around that Army game, when, it seems, e^Trybody and his brother hove into town for the finale. The national Alonogram Club held a luncheon-meeting before the game, and attending from '27 or thereabouts were: JIMMY QUINN, the big book-man from Rahway, N. J; BERNIE ABBROTT, one-time cheerleader, now a legal-eagle in his native California-Oakland, to be exact; HARRY O'BOYLE, fresh from his General Motors (Chevrolet division) job in Des Moines, la. 
JACK LAVELLE, who claims he belongs in '27, did his usual superb job of scouting Army for FRANK LEAHY; in addiUon, he brightened this particular corner of Indiana with his own distinct­ive brand of humor. HERB JONES, member of Rotary here, was in charge of the weekly program of that organization during Army-week, and he came up with an all-*27 line-up for the Rotarians. ftesi­dent of Rotary GENE KNOBLOCK, now a patent attorney in South Bend, presided; HERB JONES was m.c; JACK LAVELLE told stories; so did WALTER "RED" SMITH, of New York "Herald-Tribune" fame; and I chimed-in enough to get a free meal! 
JOHN WALLACE appeared from Calumet City, III.; DICK HANOUSEK from Minneapolis; my old side-kick, FRANK MAYER, from Stillwater, Minn., where he's now a big dairyman. And TOM "RED" HEARDEN had the day off from coaching his St. Norbert's College eleven, at De Pcre, Wis. 
STEVE RONAY did a tremendous job of handling arrangements and supervising the entire deal for the monogram men: he still has that old control! JOHN NTflKOS, now with General Motors in Boston, was another welcome guest. 
VINCE McNALLY, now with the Los Angeles Dons, appeared in town Monday after the Aimy game. Poor guy! He was assigned to watch Michi­gan-Indiana that day! 
And . . . that just about sizes-up the jottings for now. Let me hear from you, please. 
VIC LEMMER, secretary of the class of '26, visited ANTHONY F. BENNING during a trip through the east. He reports that Tony Is a scientist with DuPont in Penns Grove, N. J. 
1928 Louis F. Buckley. Sodcd Secwitr 
Adminiabation. Bm. 400, 1100 
Chester St.. Cleveland 14, O. 

From LOU BUCKLEY: 
I W35 pleased to note that BILL JONES of Washington, D. C. is one of the nominees for director and that five other *28 men were listed as Notre Dame Foundation City Chairmen in the October "Alumnus." These men are ED McGAU-LEY, Worcester, Mass.; JIM CANIZARO, Jack­son, Miss.; LEO CARRIG, Columbus, Nebr.; LEO 
R. McINTYRE, Allentown, Pa., and CHRISTIE FL.^NAGAN, Port Arthur, Te.xas. 
CHARLEY SCHUESSLER wrote from 342 Home Ave., Oak Park, III., that he attended the funeral of JOE O'DOWD at Springfield, Mo., on Aug. 13. As you are all aw-are, Joe passed away on his ranch which he recently purchased in Texas. 
MAURICE CONLEY, City Judge, Fulton, N. Y.. suggested that I compile a list of the deceased members of our class. In the last issue of the "Alumnus" I listed the deceased men who rcceixTd bachelors degrees in '28. There are, howe\*er, a number of men who were with our class for a number of years whose names do not appear on this list. Maurie, for example, mentioned DICR NOVAK, CHARLIE McCARTHY, ED WALSH' and HUGHIE McCAFFERY, all of whom are in this group of deceased men wh» were with oar class for a number of year^. As Maurie put it, "These men were a part and p.iircl of us for four years at Notre Dame and certainty are deservinv of the charity of our thoughts a."! prayers now." 
Please send me other n-uues which shoaild lie addni. 
to this list. Ai Uaurie Mid, this shoald keep at 
more dosdy knit. 
BOB HAMILTON mentioned that be . SMr GEORGE COURY in'^Oami last Jine. Gunge has a wtiiTih^,. of Beadix Laundr? stores, aorotifiag to Bob's report. 
I racdved a mmiber of soggcstioiis for oar 20'Tear xeunion activities, some of which 1 am ^na g TOO for your comments. As JOHN UcMAHON pot it, "I move that we introduce some iaiScal inaova­tions this yeai^^after all, nothiag les sbonld be expected from '2Sen." The saggcstiaa whi d {alb in this dassification to a greater extent diaa ^aaiy other is one from JOHN IGOE. Joha pnpn a that memben of the Class of '28 atteaafios the 20­year lennion make an act of sacrifice ia homor at Our Lady decEcated to the cause of worid peace by idedging total abstinence fnm alaJmlir driaks during the leunion weekend. This sugsestioa de­ser^'cs the serioos consideration of each oT ytas. Please let me have a letter from yoa as to yoor re­action to the proposal. 
FRANK CREADON proposed that some of the '28 men who were in the Glee Club sing the Ma s for deceased classmates. Frank has been tenor soloist of the Paulist Choir of Chicago for the past five years. I am asking Frank to pioceed with this proposal. Will the men interested in participating, please write to Frank at 194 Adifison Rd., Riverside, HI. 
JOHN McMAHON asks that some symbol be provided each '28 man at the reunion to enable a '28er to spot another '28er without goii« up to peer at the tyinng on the standard badge. John states, "After all, many of us who have not at­tended numerous N. D. events probably won't even recognize old classmatn at first ^aace— fellows we may have-known reasonably wdD, lia^ when. Remember in that period we have paiKd from youth to middle age." A good idea, John. I will try to see that it is carried out. We will also consder your other proposals that tend to in-. fuse some "class consciousness" at the leonion. 
I have received to date replies from 95 rbwsmate^ in response to my preliminary qnestionnure sent to all of you on Aug. 29. Practically all of those replying indicated they expect to attend the 20. year reiuion on Jane 4, 5, and 6, 1948. ED CUNNINGHAM from Beverly HiUs, Calif, has the distinction of being the classmate coning the great­est distance among those who inificated definitely that they would be present. I know that many many more than those who replied will be present. If you are among those who did not reply as yet, please drop me a note at once letting me know that you will attend and gini^ me your latest home and business address. Your suggestions for a program will also be very much appreciated 
I also want to thank the classmates who co:i­tributed a total of $138.30 to <bte to help finance the reunion promotional activities which will get under way after Jan. 1. I have not had an opportunity to acknowledge these coutiibutions in­dividually. 
BILL DOWDALL wrote fnm Buffalo, where he is with the National Market Co., inquiring about the '28 status of the men who graduated in Law '29, but who were with our dass for four yean. We certainly want these men with us for the '28 20-year reunion and would appredate hraring fraa them so they can be added to the '28 mailing list to receive our 20-year reunion materiaL Bill mentioned that he had pleasant chats dnriag the Army game week-end with JOE MORRISSEY, GEORGE SARGUS, JOHN FONTANA and MARTY RINL Bill inquired about JOHN GOCKE, MERVE AGGELER, TOM TRAUGHBER and BILL GRIFFIN. Thanks Bill for your letter and we will be lookii^ forward to senng you and the other '29 Law men, who were with our Class for four yean at the ' ^ reunion in June. 
The next issue of the "Alumnui" v.ill cany a list of committees assigned to work on the icnnioa program. If you haven't let me know as let ia what area of activity you %rauld like to bdp ia the wrork of promotii^ attendance at the lenaian, please drop me a line at once. 
I shall be lookng fonirard to receiving a nunJber ­of letters as' requested ia this mlnma My hamt addt^ u 170 E. 19tst St., Eodid 19, O. 
CHARLES H. LYNUCH, an attorney in Fksadeaa. Calif., is now redding at 330 Glenn Smnmer Kd. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Three sons of Notre Dame alumni are on the *^B" football squad, made up of fifth and sixth graders, of St. Bernard Parochial School in Pitts­burgh, Pa. They are the children of JOHN F. McMAHOX, managing director of the Industrial H>-gienc Foundation; JOHN J. WARD, ex. '20, news editor of the "Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph"; and DR. ROBERT R. MacDONALD, ex. '30. 
1929 James H. Noweiy, P. O. Box 1545, Shreveport La. 
From JIM NOWERY: TTirec letters came in this month, the first of which is from TOM McDOUG.AL: 
"I have just read the 'Alumnus* and feeling that I have sort of lost track of the bo>-5 of '29, I thought I would drop you a line. 
"Although I received my law degree later, I \vas secretary of that eventful class and am looking* foru-ard to a class reunion. 
"I came back to my home town and hung a shingle up, was district attorney for eight years, then became city commissioner (still am) and have my practice as a side line. 
"Your menuoning PAUL HEMM\"S name brought recollections, as I met him in Farragut, Idaho, when we were in boot camp. Paul had changed so that I hardly kne^v him. I got out in the latter part of 1945, none the worse for wear. I have a boy, 10, and a girl, 5. I am grooming him to be a better N. D. man than his father. 
"Would like to hear about SPIKE McADAMS, TOMMY CASEY, AUSTIN DOWNS, LARRY MOORE and all the bo>-s. I am in a litle toun of about 12,000 and the only graduate of Notre Dame, so would appredatc news the next time I pick up the 'Alumnus.' I roomed in Badin and boy what a bunch. It seems only yesterday that I was sw-eating it out trying to gel a large enough average to graduate. I live in the greatest fishing spot and hunting in Wisconsin, so come and see me on your \-acation." 
I asked BILL NEFF for a thumb-nail sketch of himself, and here it is: 
"After receiving my M.A. degree from Notre Dame in 1933 and teaching there in 1934, I came to Mandan, N. Dak., as principal of the junior and senior high schools, serving in this capacity- until 1944. In 1&44 I was named city superintendent of the public school sj-stem and have been that to the present time. 
"For several \-ears I served as president of the North Dakota State High School Principals Asso­ciation and as a member of the North Dakota State Board, which accredits high schools for the North Central Association or Colleges and Secondar>­Schools in this region. During the years I have been in Mandan, I have also served as a curriculum consultant and psychologist for the North Dakota State Training School which is located here." 
The next letter is from AL\X G.AUTHIER: 
"You're the first '29cr that I've heard from since graduation. Here it is—eighteen years since we left the University and what has happened during that span of years to members of the class of '29 would make interesting reading, I'm sure. Most of us have been pulling a Rip Van Winkle as far as active University aH^airs are concerned— we've been dormant, just waiting for someone to give us a jolt to snap us out of the rut which seems to be our lot, but which is actually only an eas>- way out of taking on extra responsibilities. Like Rip, we are finding out that many things have taken place since we went into our shell and that Notre Dame is more than just a University to be proud to have graduated from. 
"About the only classmates I have, however, seen and heard from are BILL ARMIN, ROLAND MARTEL, BERNARD CUSHING, RALPH JOR­DAN and ROMEO ALLARD. 
"Here, in brief, is what has transpired since I left Notre Dame. After graduating I worked at 
Manufacturers Ser\-ices Company, Suite 6, Majestic Building, 7 East Bijou Street, Colo­rado Springs, Colo., through its vice-preu­dent and general sales manager, WILLIAM 
J. DONELAN, Jr., '29, is setting up new sales territories and distributorships through­out the countr>-. The company is seeking representatives to handle its x-arious lines of superior quality products. Included are ma* terials handling equipment, industrial wheels and casters; department store trucks, inter* ior; railway, air and steamship terminal equipment. Also included is a complete line of plastics products such as novelty and jew­elry items, advertising display signs, and motor car accessories. 
The company also extends to industry gen­erally many services to include contracting, sales engineering and, complete manufactur­ing facilities. Those interested can get addi­tional information by writing to Bill Don-elan. 
odd jobs during the depression years and in 1934 I secured a position with the Bureau of Internal Revenue. I started as a process tax deputy, became a zone deputy, then was transferred to chief of employTnent tax division and am now division cinti of the Afanchester Division Office. During these thirteen years of government service I have covered practically cver>' section of New Hampshire. I have been in Manchester since 1943 and I hope that my travelling dav-s are over. 
"I was married at Notre Dame in 1935 to Juliana Mockus—a Chicago girl. We have four children, two bo>-s (N. D. prospects) and two girls, (St. Mary's prospects)—no favoritism shown here. 
"In 1944 I acquired half interest in Gutllette Sausage Company. This venture takes up any spare time that I may have and sort of keeps me out of mischief, especially during the winter months, which is our busy season. 
"If you should write to several classmates each month as you wrote to me, I feel sure that you would be amply rewarded with news of their ac­tivities." 
Prof. DON PLUNKETT, recently appointed assist­ant head of the Biology Department at N.D., spoke at the ^lichigan Tri-County Dental Association in Niles, Mich., on Nov. 5. The title of his talk was "New Trends in Dental Research." 
REV. JAMES E. NORTON, C.S.C, who served as a chaplain in all three services during World War II, spoke at the annual Armistice day luncheon of the American Legion in South Bend. He stressed the necessity of using our "God-given gifts in a manner to bring about first a great peace among ourselves and then in the world." 
1930 Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Brood St, Philadelphia, Pa. 
F. JOSEPH BUTLER spoke on "How to Inter­pret Financial Statements" at the Woman's Fi­nance Forum in Chicago Nov. 12. The Forum is conducting a scries of lessons on how to buy and sell securities. 
JOHN H. DE.A is chief engineer of the Denver, Colo., division of the Texas Co. 
1931 Walter F. PhiUpp, 4 Pickwick 
Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 

"A non-stop human djtiamo" who "would prob­ably be a high-powered $I50,000-a-year advertising executive" if he were not a priest is the description given of Father BONAVENTURE FITZGERALD, O-F.M.Cap., of St. John's Monastery, New York City, by Frederick Woltman, staff writer for the New York "World-Telegram." Mr. Woltman de­scribes him as a "publisher, editor, desigiker, adver­tising manager, advertising layout director, pack­ager, information clerk, letter-answerer, and ac­countant." Father Fitzgerald annually publishes about 3,0(X),000 religious pamphlets. 
1Q9 9 ''""^ ^ Collins, 17 Triangle tf IT^Ji ATCM Dayton 9, O. 
ERIC FELDARY, who recently finished a movie in Florida, was in South Bend last month. He made his movie debut in a small role in "For Whom the Bells Toll,** and pla>-s a romantic lead in "Sixteen Fathoms Deep." 
From JIM COLLINS: Many, many thanks to CLEM THEISEN and FRANK O'MALLEY for the fine manner in which they arranged and handled the party after the Army game. It was a good crowd and a good time, and everyone enjoy-cd themselves. 
BOB DAVIS was at the .Army game, and told me he was with the Western .•\djustment Company in Cincinnati. 
SOL BONTEMPO is still living in Dayton, having gone into business here after getting out of the Army. His wife died last June, and among others at the funeral were BILL BLIND and BILL GOS­SELIN. 
Sol saw JOHNNW PERRONE at the Pittsburgh game and hardly recognized him behind those handle bar mustaches. He also recently saw GIL AUGUSTINE in Newark where he is an athletic director. He is abo operating a baseball umpire's ^ school. TONY CONTI is an inspector vrith the W New Jersey State Police. 
JIM BOSCO is back with the Buntc Candy com­pany and is travelling out of Cincinnati. 
JACK HAMILTON is back in India as produc­tion manager at a Curtiss W^right factory. He vis­ited here during the summer and returned with his family in August. 
BILL VAN ROOY handled the arrangements for the Navy game party in Cleveland and did a swell job of it. MIKE CRAWFORD, J.ACK COLLINS, FLO MCCARTHY, FATHER PAUL HALLINAN and many others were ver>" prominent that week­end. 
I saw CHARLEY QUIGLEY in Richmond re­cently and he said he hears regularly from NICK KALMAS who is still in charge of the New York oflice of the FBI. 
1933 Joseph A. McCabe, Advertising* 
Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State 
St., Rochester, N. Y, 

From JOE McCABE: Here's a little addition we all ought to keep in mind—1933 plus 15 equals 1948. In other v\-ords: Mumbles sa>-s that next year's " the Big One . -. our 15-year reunion. So con­
sider this a Comeally-e. Let's all give 'getting back to the Bend' the old college tr>', to coin a cliche. Handsome JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, the bar­
rister's Beau Bnimmel, has volunteered to enlist all available 33's in Chicagoland as reunionists "If only," to quote the sage of 10 S. LaSalle St., "to keep those effete Easterners from taking all the 
honors." 
John's generosity provides one reunion head­quarters—how about you lads (apologies to Frank Leahy) in other sections of the country? Anyone else willing to blow a few bugles to rally the dan? Let's start a new class war—I'm tired of the old ones—and make our motto 'Outdo '32*! They did pretty well last June—but we can beat 'em. After all, we have youth on our side. So let's go! 
John also informs me that the O'Shaughnessy's have a number of neighbors in his hometown of Skokie, III., with old familiar names: BILL KNOX, ART PATERSON, ART O'NEILL, and JIM MARTINEZ. For all concerned, apparently everv-­thing is Okcy in Skokie. John lists others he sets or has seen recently: DICK HOSTEN^Y. an FB-Ej-c man, and Councillors MAURY LEE, FR.AN CROWE, JOHNN'Y DORGAN, and DICK LAM­BERT. 
From other sources: BOB GORMAN reports that they also beat Army in the Stevens hotel the night _': before the game—a rugged, bruising battle. He •.;' saw JOE PETRITZ there, no doubt celebrating J. Crowley's Rockets' first victor>-. SH£R&fi\N MIN­SKEY writes from Brooklyn that he's part owner of the Duro Watch Case Co. Inc., of New York. I sec TOM OWEN beat me into print; I was 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
going to mention seeing Aim at church. Well, now you know we both go. . . . 
JIM 0*SHAUGHNESSY is now justifying that scholarly look—he's la>ing down the Law for stu­dents at Loyola Law School. Hats off, by the way, to Jim, PAT CROWLEY, ED STEPHAN, AL STEPAN, and other Chicago North-Siders for their long interest and efforts in Catholic Action. 
Add-at-end: still need more names, facts and hearsay about '33crs - all contributions grate­fully accepted! And don't forget that item I mentioned at the beginning—REUNION! 
Genial and cooperative (get that, you gu>-s) JACK BREEN* writes from Detroit: 
"There is a rumor afloat that ED MORIARTY is heading up the public relations department of a new track at San Francisco, the name of which I am not familiar with. 
"ERNIE GARGARO is plenty busy with con­struction outfit of the same name, which is build­ing tunnels and sewers all over this neck of the woods. For the record, Ernie is married and the father of Ernest Joseph Jr., a husky sprout. TED FELDMAN is practicing law with his father and has elaborate plans on foot to make both the Navy and Army game coming up soon. VIC SCHAEF­FNER, a Detroiter for the past ten years, has transfered his operations to Chicago. Although his family still lives in Detroit, Vic is heading up the Industrial Relations Department of the Tucker Cor­poration in Chicago. He is one of the best custo­mers of the airlines travelling back and forth between Detroit and Chicago. Haven't seen FRED LAUGHNA in quite a spell but I do know that he is connected with the Chrysler Airtemp outfit in Dayton, Ohio. BOP POWELL is a real estate tycoon in Detroit and the father of four young­sters, all bo>^. GEORGE BEAUDIN is practically a Detroiter although he still resides in Chicago. We see him frequently as he travels this territory for the J. £. Wiss & Son Company peddling their line of shears and scissors. 
"Had occasion to get together with JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY sometime ago when he visited Detroit on some legal business. John is as sharp as ever, I assure you. 
"The wTitcr has two flaughters to his credit thus far, one in kindergarten and the other at about the three-and-a-half >'ear old mark." 
CHRISTMAS SPECL\L—Do you need addresses for '33 classmates to' whom you'd like to send a Christmas or New Year card .. . or write that long-postponed letter? Drop me a line at the above address—I'll be glad to shoot them to you if we have them. Just members of the 1933 class—I'd like to supply addresses for alumni of other classes, but I don't have *em. Though I've called this the "Christmas Special," the offer holds good until J. .Armstrong and W. Dooley close out this particular account. So—anytime you wonder what's become of good old Sludge, the ex-roommate who was your Best Man, or married your best girl, or borrowed a 1933 ten-spot (now worth $39.62)—quer>* me for his address. If I have it, I'll for^vard it to you soon as possible. 
From JOHN A. HOYT, Jr.: During the past month I have contacted several of our classmates. I hope JOE McCABE will get a boost from other members of the class as he takes over the secretar>"'s job. 
Although I wTote to JOHN ABBATEMARCO, ALBERT N. BUTLER, JR., JOSEPH D. CLARK, 
J.  MARSHALL  McAVENEY,  JAMES  B.  
MCLAUGHLIN ,  and  JAME S  SHE A  asking  for  in­ 
formation,  they have  not  as yet  replied.  

The fellows around New York are wondering how to get in touch with NORB SCHWARTZ. 
And here are letters from some of the fellows: 

From JOHN FINNERAN: The weekend at the Army game was paced for the middle-aged men of the class of *32—quiet and peaceful. Among the New York contingent that travelled out by special train were BILL LYNCH, ANDY and MRS. BOTTI, JIM McLAUGHLIN, BILL HIGGINS, FRANK CASHIER, and FRANK and PEGGY McGEE. 
After the ball game, either around the campus or downtown, I came across the following: BUD MURPHY and his Mrs., who recently presented Bud with his fourth >-oungster; JACK and MRS. JAEGER of Columbus; JACK and GLORIA JAEGER of New York; MARION BLAKE, JIM UPRICHARD, BILL KENNY, STEVE HORNYAK, CHARLEY FARRIS, TOM BLACKWELL. BERNIE LANNIGAN, DON WISE, and JOE KIRINCICH. 
I had a nice visit with FATHER STEINER, and had a long talk with FATHER CHICK SHEEDY. 
I w ^ hoping that I might see JOHNNY BALD­WIN and his bride, but it was such a hurried-up affair to and from the game that many of us were lost in the shufSe. 
CHABLES BYAN APPOINTED LABOR BOARD REGIONAL DIRECTOR 
The appointment oi CHARLES M. RYAN, '33. as legionol director oi the National Labor Board in BSnneopoIis was announced on NOT. 6 by General 
Counsel Robert V. Denbam in Wash­ington. 
The newly-appointed regionol di­rector at the Minneapolis office has had experience both in the field and legal sections oi the board. He first joined the board in 1337 as a field examiner assigned to the Cinciimoti oifice. Two years later he joined the legal staii oi the Los Angeles office oi the board. 
Mr. Ryan was bom in Emery, S. D« in 1909. He received liis KB. degree in 1933 and his LLS., also irom Notre Dame, in 1935. 
From WILLIAM A. LYNCH: I saw MARTIN LINSKY, JIM McLAUGHLIN, and MARION BLAKE at the Army game. Martin sa>-s that he often sees AMBROSE RYAN. ANDY BOTTI, now settled down to the sedate life of a civilian after a few yeais in the European theatre, is selling Fords in Middletown, N. Y. He went to Los Angeles a few months ago to be best man at ART LAVERY'S wedding. 
LEO CUMMINGS has a new address: 1519 £. Howells, Seattle 22, Wash. He is with Parry Navi­gation Co. He reports that JOHN ENGLISH is still the famous shoe merchant of the town. 
NORB SCHWARTZ is in New York, but I can't find him. I knew his old firm, but he has since changed positions. 
JIM ENGELS is a sedate school teacher in Green Bay, Wis. I must apologize for not answer­ing his last letter. 
From GEORGE C. ROHRS: I used to run into ED KOSKY on the train every few daj^ before he left for his coaching job at Holy Cross in September. He is happy to be back coaching. 
JOE PETRITZ and I compare notes on our respective football leagues at the monthly N. D. club meetings. 
See ED ECKERT about three or four times a year, generally up in Albany, where he can always guarantee you a mar\'eIous time. LEO CUM­MINGS. NORB SCHWARTZ, and BILL LYNCH paid Eckcrt a pleasant visit last year. 
Hope to see L.-VURIE VEJAR and perhaps PETE BICE when I go to the Coast early in December for the Giants-Los Angeles game. Might even run into BOB SULLIVAN. 
Regards to DR. MAURY AIULVILLE and to all the others who will surely make the campus come June. 
From EDWARD J. ECKERT: JACK CASAZZA, '34, and I flew to Chicago for the .Army rally there. None of the old crowd was 
at the Rally Friday night. I talked to GEORGE BEAUDIN over the phone. .After the game I attempted to go on the field to say hdlo to FRED SNITE, but too many cops intervened. 
I am looUns forward to our zetuuon in '48 and hope that we will have 100 per cent attendance. 
From FRANCIS X. FALLON, JR.: 
On a recent trip west I met ED STEPHAN in Chiogo, MIKE DELAY and his wife Fnncei in Trcmont, Nebr., and stayed overnight with JOE and THERESA CHURCHMAN in Springfield, lU. 
FRED FAYETTE, a Burlington, Vt., lawyer, gets to the big dty every now and then on business for Bell Aircraft. All are rasising fine families, also my major occupation. 
How arc plans coming for the 15-year reunion? 
From ANTHONY J. PUGLIESE: It was very gratifying to receive many letters from my N. D. classmates following my appmntment earlier this year as day editor for Intematiottal News Service, at the New York headquarters. 
I manage to keep in close touch with happeiui^^ at the University through the N. D. Public Infonua­tion department. At least twice a week the long familiar envelopes, with the block N. D. monogram, appear on my desk at INS—JOHNNY HINKEL and CHARLIE CALLAHAN giving the latest dope on the educational or athletic developments at N. D. It is the concensus among the newsmen that N. D.'s public information department does the most work­manlike job among the various colleges and uni­versities. 
Had a leter from JACK TR.AVERS, who is one of the top officers for the Buffalo, N. Y., Chamber of Commerce. MARK NEVILS, '27, is in charge of Eastern Airlines publicity. 
NOEL McCARRY worked for us in Feimsylvania for a time. He graduated from Notre Dame some time after us. He recently was married to another ex-INS reporter. 
DR. DAVE POWERS, who is teaching at Queens College, is having a book published by DouUeday. The b<>ok, "Live a New Life," has been chosen by the Literary Guild of America as a non-fiction selection. It will appear late next sununer or early faU. 
With the announcement in Washington on Oct. 31 of his appointment as Acting Housing Administra­tor, TIGHE E. WOODS, '33, took over_ all the heaflaches of the National Housing Administration. Formerly deputy housing expediter, he succeeded to the post held by Frank R. Creedon, who re­signed to become construction maiu^er of the atomic energy plant near Richland, Wash. 
One of the first problems facing Tighe was the ^ Chicago rental snarl in which landlords were re­questing a blanket 15 per cent increase. 
FATHER JAMES A. DONNELLY, C.S.C., is serving as diaplain of the St. Charles Home for Bo5-s in Wauwatosa, Milwaukee, Wiscomin. 
1934 Joseph. R. Glennon, Jr.. Commsr­dol SoWents Corp. 17 E. 42nd St. New York Gty 17. 
From JOE GLENNON: About the only news this month is a letter from ROBERT "DOC" VAN L.AHR written from Twentynine Palms, Calif. Here it is: 
"Catching up on my reading, I just finished the 'Alumnus'—from cover to cover, as usual. Many a time I felt like doing just this—sitting down and giving an account of myself. 
"I'm the only N.D. mail out here, but I have heard from many, particularly *mi amigo' Fausto 
•NICK' SAMBOA of Havana, Cuba. 
"I was married in 1938 in Pasadena to Mary Elaine Johansing, whose family was focmeriy of Cincinnati. We fell in love with this coantry and moved to Twentynine Palms after a short suy in Cincinnati. I sold real esute here for a «dlile and then took over the 29 Palm Inn in 1940. I am now 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
manager and part owner. \Vc have a fine clientele from up and down the west coast and a few from the Afid-west. 
**After haWng three girls I finally was blessed with a boy last Aug. 15 and named him Leo after my father, who passed away last February. 
"Guess you have heard the song "The Lady from 29 Palms" featured by the Harry Owens and Freddy Martin bands, and also by the Andrews Sisters. It was written by a song wirter who lives here. If you're wondering where Twcntj-nine Palms is, it's about 130 miles directly east of Los Angeles and 50 miles northeast of Palm Springs, in the Joshua Tree National Afonument. 
*'If you see my former roommate JACK ROBIN­SOX, give him my best regards. 
RAY WATERS is a news photographer for the "News" in New York City. He is living in Perth 
Amboy, N. J. 
CLYDE A. LEWIS combined business and pleas­ure in South Bend during the Army game weekend. As the junior xnce-comamnder of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Clyde inspected V.F.W. posts in the South Bend area while here, along with the na­tional commander. E. SPENCER WALTON, also '34, third district commander and mayor-elect of Mishawaka, entertained the \-isitors, 
•|A9 
E Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 1327 

•'^'Pentwood
 Hi, Baltimore 12, M<L From HOCH: 


The Army game has come and gone and we hope the '35 gang had a big time at the Stevens the night before the game. We are awaiting a *'bIow­by-blow" from JIM CRONIN who promised to keep notes for a running account of the '35 turnout. 
Our thanks to JIM and ART CONRAD for carr>-ing the ball for us on the unofficial Chicago reunion. We appreciated it a great deal, fellas, and thanks for \-our letters pledging cooperation. And our gratitude to the Alumni Offira for getting out our memorandum to the class! 
This trip to press permits us to give you in print another of the "lost legion"—TOM WTLLIAMSEN. Around the middle of October the following letter came from Tom and we were surprised to learn he is our neighbor—only fifty miles up the high­way in York, Pa, Take it over Tom, and make that \isit an early one: 
"Much appreciated is the big blow that you ga^-e me in the August 'Alumnus' as a result of the letter received from FRANK HOLAHAN. 
"During a recent trip to Baltimore tried to con­tact you by phone but you were probably out to a fish dinner it being a Friday night. Notwith­standing my initial failure, I will endeavor to con­tact you on my next irregular trip. 
"Speaking of Frank . . . ran into him while doing contact work for Eutectic Welding AUoj-s as he informed you . . . quite by accident ran into him at breakfast one morninug in HolIida>'sburg. Be­lieve we had four or more such meetings all of which were \-ery much enjoyed by me . . . ihey w-ere typical get-togethers in that ^v•c talked of old times and of future plans for attending some 'game' or other. 
"Since last seeing him have been metals buyer at the local York-Shipley plant currently engaged in producing a complete line of domestic and in­dustrial oil heating equipment. The stationery is some that I have utilized to advantage for odd consulting (metallurgical) jobs. 
**During the years since our graduation, have met many N.D. men in business .. . in a longer letter could list quite a number .. . in the 30's visited with PAT LYNCH, JR. in f<cw Castle, Ind. . . . also the boys who went ^rith the Indianapolis divi­sion of Bell . . . MIKE LAYDEN, PRTTCHARD, DEL GAIZO, and others from the EE school . . . and so on throughout the war years. 
"Here in York there are four N.D. men . . ­BOB GRAHAM, '26, JOHN CLARK, '34, now coach of Catholic High .. . 4 wins—1 loss with 
G.VC promising ones to go, BILL ROTHERT, *36, and the writer. 
"Well, Hoch, many thanks for the fine .job you have been doing carrying the burden of keeping the Class of '35 informed. AVill look forward to seeing you and giving you some spedfic news to case your tasks." 

TOM PROCTOR wrote us the end of October about his contemplated trip to ' the Army game. Sa>'s Tom in part: 
"I am planning to attend the Notre Dame-Anny game. It seems to work in very w«U with the annual meeting of my ice cream company in Elk­hart and a trip to IndianapjoUs whidi I have to take on behalf of Hazeltine on the 6tfa of Nov. I think HAROLD ROBERTSON of ART HALEVs class will use my second ticket since he neglected to get any of his own. Undoubtedly, I will see a number of the fellows while I am in South Bend. I certainly wish you could be there for a bit of a reunion. 
"I have not beren able to be active in the New York Notre Dame Club since I am out of the city so often. I go to Washington approximately once a month but I am usually so tired when I finbh that I do not have the energy to stop off in Balti­more and see you. Perhaps one of these days I can remedy that situation." 
Tom mentioned that wife Audre had recently had a serious operation but is now on the mend. Hope Philip, Tom's son, is holding up the family's prestige. 
ROY SCHOLZ, who spent the better part of 36 hours on a train for the Army game trip, sent us a confirming note about the people he met at the game. The following is from Roy: 
We had alwa>3 associated BILL FARRELL with East Orange,, N. J., but he is now in Boston in the real estate business. Sa>-s Roy of Bill: he was "bale, hearty and prosperous looking and was ac­companied by a very attractive wife." Nice thumb­nail sketch! 
We hear that JIM HILL, whom wc best-manned through a delightful wedding in Missouri a few years ago, was asking for us. The report is that married life is agreeing with Jim (and Juanita, wasn't it?) 
For some time, Roy and your scribe have been tr>^ng to run down FRAN SCHLEUTER. Roy 
WILFRED EIBK HEADS COMMITTEE CLEANING UP THE BOWERY 
WILFRED B. KIRK. '37, and hii Bowery Improvement Committee ol the East Side Chamber of Commerce, New York City, ore looking lor a more prosaic name for the ^'Street of Forgotten Men." The committee U plaiming a face-lifting program for the thoroughfare long notorious as the habitat of the Bowery bum. 
Wilfred, who is chaizman of the committee, described the human driftwood that eddies into the Bow­ery as **our common headache that no aspirin will ever cure." The com­mittee has been instnmxental in hav­ing Camp La Guardia, near Goshen, 
N. Y., reopened as a home for Bowery alcoholics. 
Bowery merchants and business­men ore supporting the committee's refurbishing drive, which would in­clude improving store fronts ond generally sprucing up the buildings facing the Bowery, and cleaning up the bars. 
Substitute names suggested lor the streets include *Tourth Avenue, South" and "Lower Fourth Avenue." 

saw him at the game and learned that Fran is now out of the Navy and is M.D.'ing at the Lechy Clinic in Boston. We hear you have been there abcmt a year, Fran. How about a note to give us the low down on your fazoily and you? 
Roy also saw ED ZIMMERS and wife. No dope about him seems available. How about dropping us a line, Ed? 
The "Baltimore Evening Sun" told the world the other ewning of the annual meeting of the Southern Medical Association, Nov. 24-26 in the **Monu­mental City." And there we had confirmed what wc ab«ady knew—ART CONRAD will speak at the opening public session at the Lyric Theatre on Monday evening. Art's subject—'^Communistic Con­quest Based on a Program of Socialized Medicine." 
Art, as you likely know, is associate executive di­rector of Medical Services Foundation, Chicago. We hope to have Art as a guest for a brief moment during his busy visit to Baltimore. 
We heard the Army game at BILL and ELEA­
NOR COYNE'S apartment in Parkfairfax, Alexan­
dria, Virginia. Bill has transferred to the Post 
Office Department's legal division. It was the first 
time we had seen the Coynes since the Na\T game 
last year. Coyne's social grace has not diminished! i 
That's all for now gang! Keep those letters " 
coming! 
1936 Joseph F. Mansfield. National Broadcasting Co., 30 Bockefellei Plaxo. Radio City, New York, 
N. Y. 

MARIO PIERONI «-as elected city judge on the Democratic ticket in Muncie, Ind. Mr. and Mn . PATRICK J. FISHER are the proud parents of a new boy, Joseph Anthony. 
1937 Frank J. Reilly, MacNoir-Dorland Co. 254 W. 31st St, N. Y. C. 
From FRANK REILLY: The dates on the postmarks of the \'ariou5 cards and letters that have been sent to me as the basis for a column go all the way back to July 24. They came in too late for the August issue of the "Alum­nus," and should have been reported on in the October issue. Press of business, which in this case meant getting out a convention issue of the publica­tion which I edit, made it impossible for me to crowd in the iviiting of the review of the antics fl of our classmates during September. Thus, the three line item under the 1937 class news heading in the October issue. 
From PHIL BONDI came a fulsome and en­couraging report on himself and his progress. The letter was postmarked Dayton, O., where Phil is with Standard Register Co. Phil writes: "Greetings! Our '37 coluinn in the October 'Alumnus' looked mighty skimpy. (Mea culpa!) The reasr^n for that can be only that the likes of me just don't write. (How right the man is!) So here goes for what it is worth. 
"Me? I've just recently gone back to work for the Standard Register Company in the Dayton home offic*. I used to be regist-r trainer for the company in the Chicago region—in 1940 that was. An ofHce job for an old pa\*ement Dounder like me is a hard pill to take. Vou see I've had so much of the good medicos in the past se\*en years that 'everything T have to take is a pill and it usually is, too. Howe\-er, it is the only type job with regu­larity—^I still take a rest neriod every morning and afternoon, and prosnective clients for marginally punched business forms—our product—probably wouldn't supply me with a conv-nient bed if T haopened to call at their office at 10:00 a.m or 2:00 D.m.—soooo. I stay on m" tJenc'l nushin? job. And, T mieht add. I'm darn elad to b- out ^nd among 
the throng a bit. Sure, it's a tough world, but it is j 
nicer to be in it than out of it. ^ t 
"They have a very active Notr- Dame Club here in Davton. headed bv BILL HOYNE. '41,—the un­dertakingest undertaker vou've e\-er se-n. P"e sure signs tip more oarties, dinners and other club ac­tivities than you'd even think possible. Howc\*er, 1 
Volume 25, No. 6. December, 1947 
think even he*ll admit that he isn't the Rigor Mortis—a pun. I havent met him yet—my regimen calls for bed at 7:00 and unhappily most functions begin at that time. I'll get to one of them yet, though. 
"Dam it, Frank, I'd like to come up with a real bit of news for you, but I just don't have it. (Well, what's all this about yourself, Phil?) I used to hear quite regularly from JOE SCHILLING, TOM HUGHES, ED CROTTY and ELMER ZEN­NER, but not recently. Even old roomie, BILL LYNCH, hasn't been heard from in years. I'd cer­tainly welcome any news from any '37ers with a bit of loose ink, and old meat wrapper and a couple of minutes on his hands. Luck to you and health." 
That was a ver>* swell letter from Phil, and when you boys see it and realize what an effort it must have been for Phil to write it—his time is so limited any^ray—I'm sure several of you, particu­larly the fellows mentioned by him, will want to grab the nearest pen or typeuritcr and write a letter 
to Phil tout de suite. 
I'd been in touch- with JACK HURLEY during November and on his way througli. New York on the 25th he called me and we had an extended lunch and gab fcst together. The big news about Jack, who works for General Electric and lives with his wife and two kiddies in Schenectady, was his recent trip back to N.D. for the gathering o! alumni club presidents. Jack, as you may have gath­ered, is president of the Schenectady alumni club. He reported having seen and visited with DON HENNESSY, president of the Rock River Valley (lU.) club and WALT NIENABER, president of the Cincinnati club. Jack said he also saw BILL 
- LYNCH, who lives and works in South Bend. Another classmate of ours that Jack had heard about is DICK RILEY, now telegraph editor of the Youngstown "Vindicator." So little has been heard from Dick in recent years that in another five years I predict that his sii^nature vnW be worth about $200. How about it, Dick? 
At this point it might be nice to mention an an­nouncement received from PAT and PETE JOHN­EN of Chicago during October and tellirg of the arrival of Patricia Johnen on Oct. 8. Patricia is the Johnen's first child. She weighed 8 pounds 10 ounces at birth. Although he didn't say so in the card, Pete was operating a couple of nighteries in Chi­cago when we met at Commencement time at school. 
Two other birth announcements received since our last piece are those of Mary Ann Sharp, daughter of ANGELICA and BILL SHARPE and Jerry James Gillespie, son of BETTY and JACK GIL­LESPIE of Westfield, N. J. Both are their parents' second child. Mary Ann Sharpe was bom Sept. 9 and Afastcr Gillespie arrived July 23,—which shows >-ou how fast time can fly. 
FATHER JOE ENGLISH sent a card bearing greetings from Ocean City, N. J., back In July. Unfortunately, Joe didn't let us know more about himself, although I understand he was to go to some place in Massachusetts from his headquarters here in New York. 
Last Sunday's New York "Times" carried a story datelined Herkimer, N. Y,, Nov. 29, telling of the marriage of C. DONALD SCONFIETTI of Roch­ester, N. Y., to Miss Helen Canfield Dinneen. That would be our Don Sconfietti, wouldn't it? The ""nmes" * story did not mention Don's occupa­tion at the moment, nor did it tell of his being a Notre Dame man, but then, newsprint is in short supply. 
On Sunday, Nov. 23, I had occasion to make a trip down to Baltimore to dose up my magazine. While in Baltimore I had dinner and .stayed over night with CY and JEAN STROKER and their new, two*month-old daughter. We had a wonderful time discussing things in general and the old days in particular. While at Cy's I learned of the lead­ing article in the November issue of '^Holiday"' magarine on Baltimore, which was written by my fellow secretary of the class of '38, HAL WIL­LIAMS, who is editor of the Sunday supplement ot the Baltimore "Sun." Hal did a very nice writing job for "Holiday," which in turn presented a nice thumbnail biographical sketch, omitting, unfartmi­ately, the fact that he is a graduate of-^otre Dame. 
Another writer, but this time of- the class of 1937, who is continuing to make a name for himself is our old friend VINCE HARTNETT, whose cur­rent literary effort, a short story, ''Theme ana Variations," was published in the November issue of "Sign." Read it If you can and let Vincc know what you think of this fine story. Vince dropped by the office some time ago, I believe it was in Sept., when he was apartment himting in New York. I never did learn how he made out in his efforts, or even if. he is living in New York. 
PINKY CARROLL, the squire of Hasbrouck Heights, N. J., was over for lunch the other noon. Pinky is now the proud papa of three floe young­sters. I believe he's still second best to my F^k-Chester neighbor, MARK LONERGAN, who, if I'm not mistaken told me he had added a fourth youngster to his family roster. 
At one of the recent meetings of the N.D. Alumni Club of New York I met BILL FOLEY, now an assistant district attorney of Kings County (Brooklyn). Bill looks very well and is doing qtute a good job in Brooklyn, I understand. Some of the boys tell me he has had bis picture in some of the papers recently in connection' with several of the more important investigations in Brooklyn. At the same meeting, HERB K^NYON of the Blue Cross Hospitalization Plan and Yonkers, and VIC MER­CADO, who spent a short time in Puerto Rico on a teaching assignment. Inflationary prices, but not wages, were responsible for Vic's brief sojourn. Following the meeting. Herb drove TOM HUGHES, ED HOYT and myself home. 
Earlier I mentioned some of the fellows JACK HURLEY had seen when he was back to school for the Club Presidents' meeting. JOHN CACKLEY ^vas another of the '37ers Jack said he's run into. Ole "Zeke" is working on the public relations end 
of the Notre Dame Foundation, I gather. 
One of the felIoH3 we talked about at the Strok­
er's was NED JOYCE of '37. Ned is studying theol­
ogy in Washington, and as most of you are aware 
is a member of the CS.C.'s. 
1938 Harold A. VtHUicons. 4323 Marble Hall Bd.. Baltimore. VIA. 
TED KNUSMAN POST 
TED ENUSMAN, who was kiUed in action on Feb. 8, 1945, has had a unique honor paid io him by the Amvets. A Chicago post of the Tet­erans' organizotion has been nomed the Ted Enusman Post No. 13. He is the only NJ>. man for whom a post has been named. 

From HAL WILLIAMS: 
DON HICKEY should have been a correspondent instead of a restaurateur. He contributed eight letters for the October issue of the "Alumnus." This month he sends along eight more. Can any one top this? 
Writes Don: "LEO BOYLE was in the Kesta the other day. I was too busy doing dishes so I didn't have a chance to find out what he is. doing. . . . CHARLIE C.\LLAHAN has written 'The Spirit of Notre Dame* for Football Illustrated, HUGO WINTERRO^VD is practicing law in In­dianapolis. JOE KUHARICH, as you might have heard, is line coach for ED McKEEVER at San Francisco. . . . DR. ROBERT BRYAN is practicing in the Bend. . . . JACK HYNES is in Munde, Ind. .. . There was an article in the South Bend "Tribune" recendy about BOB SULLIVAN «dM> is teaching Law at Notre Dame and marhing a Fort Wayne High School football team. He com­mutes between his two jobs by bus. . . . JOHNNY PLOUFF was chairman of the Nebraska pce-game smoker. TOM QUINLAN and TOM HUGHES were there. Quinlan is stufiying law at Notre Dame. 
I am JOE HENEBRY at the (ow. .-. . A sMa was left at Ike Kota aajiag tint BILL ('Tlisi") MAHONEY is a pnod ff- Aad iliiiiig •( ^ iathen. DAN WALSH, o c -38, of SonA Inil «M seen pmUas a Iwlir bftr-• • • Bw4 tet TOM MULLIGAN was ftou to the liors over the Natr game week-end in Oevdand. . . . SWEINE BAUKK and I are active in tbe South Bevl Theater. Ceild : . . . After the Aimy game I saw B( » UAZANEC JACK UAHONEY, SCOTT SEAKDON. JACK MOULDER and Jtk Hynes at the ladaa Odb. .. . A few days after the Aimy s*mt I had dmacr with OWEN KANE who «ras'io towaaa hiaiaf . After ifinner we adjomned to DUKE JFISUEVS apartments. John said he saw CHICK GALLAG­HER. JOE CORCORAN, JOE CALLAHAN —d CHUCK SWEENEY over the Aimy game wcA­end. ... I see that our old pnndeat. JOHNNY O'CONNOR; is looking for ideas on the tea^car reunion. Here's a starter: Swede Bauer wooU fihe to have all comets out to his tarn for a get-to-. gether." 
I was at Notre Dame for a quick visit over the week-end of the Army game bat I i£d not see. too many of the boys. I saw HARVEY FOSTER in the caf, JOE THORNBURG, wlio sow Ens in Detroit, in the lobby of the Diniag Hall,-JOHN FOORE and "FOPPA" LEAHY, of the TdSu, Ohio, Leahys, in tbe Hoffman Hotd. and JOE CALLAHAN in the lobby of the Oliver. All were bemoaning the fact that there was no central meet­ing place. Joe Callahan reported that he came out on the New York special train with CAS VANCE (who was busy showing Im wife the raaipwt ami his former residence haUs). I also spent some thae with Charles Callahan, the demon public irhtjowi man, and BUD SHERWOOD, who was down fnm Flint for the game with his wife. The Shetwoodi reported the birth of a son, Thmnas J., oo Aug. 31. 
And speaking of births: Kiistina Louise was bora to Ginny and JACK SOLON on Oct. 2, at Ae Holy Name Hospital, in Teaneck, N. J. Kiittiaa must be some girl; she wrote on the back of &e birth announcement that she yia^bfti e^ t pomdi, nine ounces. TOM HUTCHINSON, the bis machinery man from Bend, Ore., seiKb word that his fourth child, a boy weighii^ nine pounds, two ounces, was bom on Oct. 15. Writes Ton, "Will you please see that I am given proper rrrngaitioB among the men of '38. Seems to me I should be among the leaders. Does any member o( our daas have five children?" 
With that question—with that challenge, if you wilt-we will close our typewriter and await the Tiiailman. 
REDMAN DUGGAN returned from SouA Africa, where be was in the U. S. consular aenice, for an eye operation in Denver. He is convalesdag at his home in Dnrango, Colo., and' will be for several months. Drop him a note. . 
ROBERT J. STANFORD is a fiscal SeU repre­sentation for the Division of Finance and Budget ot the State Department. 
FATHER JOHN F. McGOUGH was ordained in Harrisburg, I^. 
JOHN SCOTT, who received the Silver Star while serving in Guam with the Marines, has been a|H. pointed director of publicadoos for the South Bead school system. 
ED BOYLE, Jr., who is with the FBI, is now stationed in Norfolk, Va. 
Top honocs in the International Lighting EiAi-' bition at Chicago, contractors' divinon. went to JOHN LEADBETTER. More than 350 coanpeted. John, who taught for a short time in the Depart­ment of Electrical Engineering at Notre Dame, a now emplojred by the KoonU-Wagner Electric Co. in South Bend. 
PAUL ANDERSON has joined the bmlty at Duquesne Univeraty; Pittsburgh. He lexiweJ Ui Master's degree at Notre Dame in 1939, aad Ua doctorate in 1942. 
Leo Catholic high school, cnadied by JOSEFH 
T. GLEASON, won the Chicago CathoEc ioodal title, acconfing to a story in the "Chicago Tiib-' une" written by DAVE CONDON. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1939 Vincent DeCoursey, I9I7 Eliza­beih, Kansas City 2, Kansas 
From VINCE DECOURSEY: Belated, of course, comes neu-s of the class of 1939—or that portion thereof that has ^vritten, been written about, or seen. The Army game in South Bend provided sights that haven't been seen for many \Tar5, as noted below. 
To dear up a good deal of old business that has not been .reported: RAY SCHLECK has a new-daughter, now at home at 713 Michigan Ave., South Milwaukee. Wis. JOE HARRINGTON'S an­nouncement of Martin Daniel's birth on Sept. ~, came a couple of day-s too late for last issue. Joe is one of the Canal Zone's up and coming young men. Had some new^ of ED O'CONNOR; after leaving the service he was program manager for some time at station WNAG, Boston. At present Ed is doing free lance writing—if I'm not mistaken he had a story in the "Atlantic" this fall. 
Had a letter from FRED SIMON, owner of the Waco Broom and Mop Factory down in Waco, Texas, suggesting that we have a class reunion the weekend of the Army game. Regretted this was im­possible but the rally the Chicago club put on (in­cidentally, an affair that the Chicago club can really be proud of) ser\-ed just as well. 
If this column overlooks someone we saw or talked to, hope that I'm forgiven—it turned into a rough evening. TOM REARDON. of course, came up from Kansas City. LOYD WORLEY and my brother BILL. '41, came up from Tulsa. Had the O'MELIA'S, both of them, FRANK P.VRKS, GRA­HAM OWENS and others with us at the rally. Talked to and saw FRANK REPPE.\HAGE.\ and JOE RY.AN of Buffalo; CHARLEY HAYES (in business with JIM WHITE); BILL FAYMON­\1LLE (engineer with Reynolds Metals); GEORGE 
J. NEUMANN (Superintendent of Hartford's west-em department). FRANK P.ARKS is practicing law (Conner and Parks) up in Rice Lake, Wis., and doing right well. DON O'MELIA is county attor­ney in Rhinebnder; DICK in Milwaukee, General Tire and other things. Saw JIM DUN.V and wife for a few minutes. Bumped into HARRY DETZER in the Palmer House, he being with BOB BREEN. Harrv- still in Toledo. 
Had a couple of pleasant evenings with BILL FAYMO.VVILLE on one of his trips here. KEITH O'ROURKE is in Kansas City with the City Na­tional Bank. He said PAT GORMAN was at the Army game. I must personally ask DICK ANTON to stay home sometime—this makes the second time I haven't been able to reach him while in South Bend. 
Have a long sheet of paper with information thereon for use ne.\t month, assuming that com­munications arc up to normal. Why doesn't some­one write? 
From CHARLEY NORTO.N: 
My brother Frank attended the .-^rmy game, the lucky stiff, but I had to stay at home for the radio version, as did John. 
You can tell TOM RE.\RDON that VIN DOL-L.-\Rj\ and new bride seem to be keeping ahead of compctitiou at their hotel in Hamlin. BILL WHE­LEH.AN has broadened his field to include real estate and sold me a house last spring. BERNIE EILERS has moved along with FR..\N CONNELLY to a new site and pri\-ate business in the building game. JIM TORMEY bobs in and out of town ocacsionally, so they tell me, still growing strong in the freezing and canning business. 
Me? I'm still here at the Puritan Co. and its sister company, the Genesee Research Corp. in Rochester, N. Y. 
BILL RUNGE, who was married recently, is working as a field representative of the Wage Hour and Public Contract DiWsion of the Depart­ment of Labor. His headquarters arc in Lafaj-ette, Ind. 
MAURICE X. FRANK, South Bend, has been appointed by the Indiana Bar assodation as chair­man of its committee on Amencan citizenship for the sUte. 
Bobert G. SonforcL 1228 W. Wis­1940 conaia Ave^ Milwaukee, WU. 
ENGENE W. BICHON is employed as a na\*al architect in the dscign section of Scientific Group in Bremerton, Wash. 
FATHER JOHN SCHRODER, S.J., is at Lo>-ola College in Montreal, Canada. 
MAJOR JOSEPH A. RYAN, who W3s stationed at Smoky Hill Army Air Field at Salina, Kans., left for Alaska last month to work on the Air Force project of testing heavy bomber planes over the North Pole. He is one of the top hea\-y bomber pilots. 
Another who is managing his own concern is FREDERICK G. CHRISTALAN, Jr., of the Christ-man Plumbing & Heating Co., Terre Haute, Ind. 
.Attending Law school at DePaul UnivTrsity in Chicago is WILLIAM M. CARROLL, Jr. 
FRED \V. CHRISTMAN, Jr., is a partner in the General OlHce Supply Co., Appleton, Wis. 
EDWARD J. HICKEY is doing sales and ad-" ministrativc work as assistant to the president of 
E. J. Hickey Co. 
In Los Angeles, Calif., J. L. HARRIGAN is em­ployed by the HofTman Radio Corp., in the engi­neering division. 
HARRY WRIGHT is doing ver>- well as coach at Aquinas high school in Rochester, N. Y. He won three of his first four games, including tough Cathedral High of Erie, Pa. Hanr lost to St. James High of Texas, a club that has to be seen to be bcliewd. 
1941 John W. Patiezson. Jr> 5530 Dor­lington Bd,. Kitsburgh. Pa. 
The former Miss Jane Elizabeth Clark, who was married to THOMAS F. GRADY in New York on Sept. 3, is the sister of WILLIAM P. CLARK. 
CHARLIE FARRELL is coach and instructor at Phoenix Tech School in Phoenix, Ariz. 
1942 V^lUom E. Scanlcm, 213 N. Cuyler St, Oak Pcnk, HL 
The baseball team at St. Louis University's Parks College of Aeronautical Technology-, coached by BOB WALSH, ended its long season with a" final standing of 14 victories against 13 defeats. Bob, who scr\'cd as a lieutenant in the Navy during the war, is in his second year as coach and director of phj'sical education at Parks. Major league teams signed up for their minor league farms two of Bob's stars. 
HENRY L. DAHM, JR., is in the Tire Division of the U. S. Rubber Co. in St. Louis. 
Internal auditor for Talon, Inc., is the title of JAMES E. McI.\TYRE. The company is located in Meadville, Pa. 
F.VTHER ANTHONY LAUCK, C.S.C., was the only artist who won two honors in the second an­nual exhibition of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D. C. The noted priest-artist and sculptor won honors for a sculpture and drawing. 
DON McGIXLEY is in second year law at Georgeto\*-n University. His address is 5912 I6th N.W., Washington 11, D. C. 
1943 Edwaid C. Boney. 1723 boqnois Ave- Detroit. ^GcIl. 
From ED RONEY: Fall inemories: the trips to Pittsburgh and Army . . . the Pitt weekend at JACK EDWARDS . . . meeting his wonderful family . . . seeing JACK FIN.VEGAN at the William Penn . . . a ND lawyer . . . the game . . . watching the Pitt cohorts perk up and take notice when their team puts up a good battle . . . date that night . -. seeing the town with Jack . . . much talk about our chances for an unbeaten season . . . seeing BILL MURRIN outside church next morning . . . quizzing Jack and Bill and disco\'ering that: PAT GROGAN'S a Cornell lawyer . . . JACK DUG­GAN in Pitt Engineering . . . JACK EDWARDS' father in NY, leaving Jack to head the Pitt Mfgr's agencs- . . . DR. BOB NENNO in his first 
of fiiT yvars of psychiatric internship . . . BILL RICE a Pitt Economics Prof . . . BILL FISHER a NY salesman of dolls, etc. . . . HARRY O'MEALIA going great guns in the NJ Advertis­ing biz . . . BOB CARVER another Pitt prof, sociology . . . JIM MADIGAN, a Chi Haskins and SdU acct. . . . married . . . JIM SIXSMITH married with two heirs . . . BOB MORRILL, a California resident . . . father during summer . . . a girl this time . . . BILL MURRIN, a Pitt law­yer . . . fourth in family . . . CHUCK DILLON, a meat slinger in Butler, Pa. . . . BUD HAYES, a Reg Navy supply officer in Cleveland. 
A New York club meeting . . . running into JIM McELROY, JIM MAHER, BOB MARTIN, BILL JOHNSON, FRANK CONFORTI . . . scribbling notes about: MOE HERBERT, now play­ing Bostonian . . . FRED GOOSEN, Jr., greeted the world in Sept. . . . BOB VICKERS and HARRY KELSEY in Washington . . . HARRY WRIGHT driving to Pitt game in a '46 Cadillac . . . Anvbody got a coaching job handy? . . . BOB TIMMERMAN, a NY accountant . . . BILL OL­VANY, a father in July . . . JIM McELROY, ex-ABC, now with Mutual . . . BOB MARTIN in an engineering company . . . BILL JOHNSON moving and storing for New Yorkers ... . BOB REALE, a chemist with Barrett Co. . . . FRANK CONFORTI, a Norma Electric accountant .. . ED NICHOLS, now a married Califomian . , . STEVE ENSNER, president of Account-O-Tax in Hoff­man building, Evansville . . . Write him about March 14. 
Aluch scurrying to get plane reserv*ations for the Army trip . . . begging time off . . . the flight to Detroit only .. . a mad drive from there to make the pep meeting .. . on time . '. . bumping into PRESIDENT JACK TALLETT and hU ven' charming wife, PETE MORITZ, CHUCK (LAW) MURPHY, BOB McKEE, TOM SWEENEY . . . two hours of the best pep meeting ever . . . my date Ann Conroy of New York thrilled and im­pressed . . . closing the Hoffmann bar at mid­night .. . up early to see alumni officials . . . and show Ann around the campus . . . Communion in Dillon for the team . . . seeing everything once more with the same old thrills . . . Grotto . . . Log cabin . . . Book store for souvenirs . . . Rockne Memorial and seeing HANS HELLAND there . . . the cafe for a malt . . . running into Classmate FRANK O'MALLEY . . . tr>ing to pick the win­ning hall decoration. 
Sitting at the Hoffmann and reminiscing with TALLETT, MORITZ, McKEE, MURPHY, BILL O'NEIL, BILL JOHNSON . . . seeing BOB LE­MENSE, DON HELTZEL, LEO KEATING . . . Finding I'd missed seeing BOB KUIPERS, M.4RK PFALLER, ED HOLLAND, BILL HORNBERG, RAMO.N ARAHU, TO.M MFTCHELL, JERRY SHEA, JOE O'BRIEN, GENE MILLER, GAIL FITCH, BOB RAAF, BOB ROGERS, LEE RAY­MOND, JIM MURRIN, GENE FEHLIG, JIM MURRAY, FRED MciLAHAN, BILL BINET, BILL DAVIS, JOE FRETAGUE, TOM CON­NALLY, BILL SCHERER, FR.ANK KUNKLE, OLLIE HU.NTER, WALT JONES, HAL HUNT­ER, BILL COSTELLO .. . all at the game but returning home or at another joint . . . the table gang all throwing me news for this column . . . fast notes such as: WALT JONES married the Nebraska weekend . . . still in ND law . . . OL­LIE HUN'TER in FBI in Cinn. . . . BOB KUI­PERS a Braniff Airways livewire . . . BILL HORN­BERG married .. . ED HOLLAND setting the pace for '43 with four children . . . BILL SCHERER a prof at ND . . . JACK SCHERER in N"y as architect . . . DR. JIM FORD finished Northwestern Med, married in Sept. and lives in Sarannah . . . JOE COMPAGNA, a LaGrange resident . . . JACK DONLEVY, a CBScripter in N'Y . . . JOE ROESCH, a married chemist in St. Louis . . . BILL SCULLY married in Oct., in Brooklyn . . . success in Finlans Rainbow . • .' CHUCK HiURPHY sUU in Michigan Law . . . same for President TALLETT . . . both out in Feb. . . . DON MILLER, father of a bouncing boy in Port Orchard, Wash. . . . out of Harvard Law in June . . . JOHN BOYLE, a father, with ASCAP in N'Y . . . BILL WALSH expects to march the Baltimore floors at Christinas time . . . works for Calverts . . . BOB BROWNING, an­other Feb. Michi^n law grad . . . BILL O'NEIL at U of Dayton . . . HERB MELTON an ND 
Volume 25, No. 6, December, 1947 
law>*er and fencing coach . . . JIM MAHER, a NY Haskins and Sells accountant -. . has one child . . . other law students arc JOE NORRIS somewhere in NYC . . . HANS HELLAND at Wisconsin . . . GUS STULDREHER at Har­\-ard . . . also chalk one future general up for Gus . . . FRANK KUNKLE, prof at ND . . . both JIM O'DONNELL and BOB BROWNING suffered the sudden loss of their fathers this fall . . . legal eagle HAL HUNTER, a Hannibal, Mo., officeholder .. . has two children . . . LEO KEAT­ING, a father during summer. 
That*s one man's impressions of Fall . . . How about your's? .. . no letters this time but some news because of those trips . , . how about some letters to pick up this column . . . needs a big transfusion . . . also Spring's not far away and with the Big 5 YEAR JUBILEE REUNION . . . much more news about that later . . . Don't for­get the 6th annual Alumni Fund in 1948 . . . our Jubilee year we should lead the whole gang twice over . . . also to' calh'ng your local Foundation Committee . . . help to give others the opportunity we all had . . . return those Alumni Census cards you'll soon get . . . remember those who started In 1939 are '43 men at heart. 
Congratulations to the December grads on the end of their fifth year as Alumni . . . and one thing more . , . HERE'S HOPING YOU ALL EXJOY THE VERY MERRIEST OF CHRIST­MASSES . . . AXD THE HAPPIEST AXD MOST PROSPEROUS OF XEW YEARS. 
SAM McQUAlD is branch manager of Squibb in Minneapolis. 
DR. JOHN W. FRYE, patholog>- resident at St. Joseph's Hospital in Marshfield, Wis., is living at 208 Second St., Merrill, Wis. 
FRED G. DEWES is the assistant to the secre­tary- of the Hercules Body Co., E\-an5vinc, Ind. 
ROGER B. DeGIOJA, who lives at 7120 Piney Branch Rd., Takoma Park, Washington, D. C, is an instructor in the Na\-ai IntclHgencc School. 
Not only is STEVEN J. WEIGEL enrolled as a student in the School of Social Work of the Uni­versity of Connecticut, but he is abo doing clinical field work with the Slate Department of Public Wel­fare in Hartford. 
RICHARD A. HALL is the buyer for the Gary-Wholesale Grocery", Gary, Ind. He is also secrctarj'­treasurcr of the firm. 
JAMES J. GALLAGHER, Jr., is employed as an architectural draftsman by Maguolo & Quick, in Cincinnati, O. 
GEORGE J. CONVY is president of the Con\y Heel Covering Co., St. Louis, ^lo. 
JOHN L. BRESLIN is an English instructor at St. Louis University. 
RICHARD A. GULLING holds the title of as­sistant supcrx'tsor of tabulating in the payroll and accounting office of the Timken Roller Bearing Co., Canton, O. 
CARL R. HEISER manages the Heiscr Jewelry Co. in Hannibal, Mo. 
1944 John A. Lynch, 15724 Grandville Rd., Detroit 23, Mich. 
From EARL ENGLERT: "In August Jane Hannan of South Bend and I went down the middle aisle. Wc have settled in Dayton, O., where I am employed by the central research Dept. of the Monsanto Chemical Co. In Dayton wc can be reached at 2301 Salem Ave., Randolph 0507, and would appreciate hearing from any of the gang who happen to be in the ncigh­l)orhood. We're always ready to take care of old classmates at mealtime. 
"Here is a little dope on the '44 lads who fin­ished their master's work in Chemical Engineering last August. JOE (NEIL) McMANUS is with a paper company in his home town of Charleston, 
S. C. JOE SIMONS is with Standard Oil of New 
fc Jersey. DICK BE.N'.M.NG is unattached as far as I know. H.ANK .AD.AM is with Du Pont in Belle, 
W. Va. 
"JOILN GULD.AN writes that he plans matri­mony in December with Gloria Randolph, cx-St. 
LAWRENCE LEONABO BUBIEO IN ABLINGTON CEMETEBY 

LAWBENCE P. LEONABD. Jr., who attended Notre Dome in 1942 prior to entry into service, was interred in Arlington National Cemetery at Washington. D. C, on Dec. 12 with iuU military honors. 
A member of Co. G. 413th Infantry. 104th Division. Larry was killed at Ereech. Holland, on Nor. 5< 1944, while storming a group of form-houses defended by 50 Germans. The body arrived art New York aboard the "USAT Bobert Bums." 
Twenty years old at the time of his death, Larry was gaduated from De La Salle Oaklands Preparatory School in Toronto, Canada, and at­tended Princeton University before entering Notre Dame. Surviving are his lather, a brother, and sister. 
Members of the Washington Notre Dame Club were present at the ceremonies in Arlington Cemetery. 
Mary's and Jackson, Tcnn. John is currently Vfith Sylvania Electric in BufTalo. N. Y., having re­ceived his belated degree in June. 
"My brother-in-law by marriage now is BILL MIDDENDORF, '43. Dill married Marian Han­nan after his graduation." 
From BOB THUMM: "On the 4th of October JOHN RILEY was married to Jeanne Healy at Sts. Peter and Paul Church in Naper\ille, III. My wife Marion ser\'ed as maid of honor, while I was best man. DICK REEDY and BOB KEARNS, '43, were ushers. TO.M COSTELLO, JACK COSTELLO, '47, and HARRY GANEY came down from Crystal Lake to attend the wedding. 
**'Notre Dame is well represented in the Aurora division of the Organized Na\*al Reserve. Of the fifteen officers in our division, five arc former Notre Dame men—BILL GOSSELIN is the CO ­JOHN YOUNGEN, CARL ESSER, JOHN RILEY and my-sclf. 
"The Fox River Valley Xotre Dame Club is going to have a banquet and dance on the night of Dec. 1. It is to be held in the Sky Room of the Leiand Hotel here in Aurora. And this is all the news at present.'* 
DANIEL J. HECHT is employed as a salesman by Brown & Bigclow Advertising Co. 
Another '44 graduate doing sales work is WIL­LIA.M If. GRAFE, JR.—for the Abbott Labora­tories in Cincinnati. 
CREIGHTON MILLER, .Ail-American halfback, is now practicing law in Cleveland. He is associ­ated with Miller and Hornbeck, Union Commerce Building. 
CHARLES E. MURRAY, of Waupun, Wis., is with the Army of Occupation in Berlin. 
 W. Schaeffer, P. O. Box 

1945 lames 
369, Schenectady, N. Y. 

From JIM SCHAEFFER: Only letter in the 1945 mail box this month came in from BOB RIQRDAN, who's American Vicc-comul ill Luaiula., Angola, in Africa. Boh (N>c.Mi*t have iiiiich news to reiwrt—particularly "as for news, nothing new has heen discovered out here since the Portuguese discovered it 400 years ago, and that includes the plumbing." 
1946 
FRANK "BOLEY" DAXCEWICZ has corae into his own as quarterback on the Boston Yanks pro team. He has been passing and running the team in fine style since he took over the quarterback slot in mid-season. 
CECIL RAY BURKET is a sophomore in the Indiana School of Medidne. 
BERNARD A. CENTURY is teaching in the Talbot Laboratory at the Uni\ersity of Hh'nois Ensign R.\YMO.\D L. WOLLAM is serving aboard the U.S.S. Warrington. 
LAURENCE P. STANTON, who reoenTd a 
B.N.S. from N.D., is now doing graduate work here. 
After receiving a M.S. from the Universty of Delaware last summer JA.MES J. COLEMAN went to work in tfie research department of the Aerovax Corp., in New Bedford, Afass. 
104 7 '* ^* ^•™°' 219 S- Scott St. Senlh 
• '^ ' Bend, Ind. 
From J. D. USI.\A: 
We'll use the mailbag first in the hope that others of the Class of '47 will follow sm"t with some news. This one is from VINCE LAURITA in Chicago: 
"It certainly was m'ce rumung into you this past week-end at the Notre Dame-Army game. It seemed that everytime I tiu'ned around I was meeting some old friend from Notre Dame. 
"Concerning y;our request for news of members of the Class of 1947, I offer the following informa­tion and hope it can be of some use to you DENNIS "GABBr' HARTNETT, my old room-male, was married Sept. 13 to Miss Helen Jayne McDermott. . . . Gabby is emplo>'ed as an assistant credit correspondent for the Liquid Carbonic Corp. here. . . . LEO TUILLETTE is also liWng here with his wife Harriet and is employed as «jl»n.^^ for Kline's Sporting Goods Co. . . . JAMES "BUCKY" HARRIS is teaching in South Bend. 
. . ART ANDERSON from Ault, Colo., is spend­ing his time these days as an up and coming farmer. . . . TOD DORAN of Butte, Mont., who was at the Army game with Art, is going to school at Montana State U. .. . I am coaching football at Holy Trinity High School here as an assistant to JOHN MURPHY, an alumnus of the middle '3fls. We just completed a fairly good season. I'm kept busy teaching History aud helping with the basket­ball team. . . ." 
Thanks very much to Vince. But for the Army game, this month's news would have been quite lean. However, here are some of the Class of '47 1 either saw or had reported as beii^ around for the week-end: MOOSE'MATTHEWS, DICK UN­GASHICK, JOE LAUCK, DICK HOHLER, LOU GUINEY, JACK HERLIHY, DICK LETTE. WAR­REN CARTIER, DAVE CARTWRIGHT, BttL MOORE, ART NOLAN, MIKE G.ARRY. 
Others we saw around included: RUDY ANDER­SON, OXS O-aONNELL, JOHN LAVERY, TOM MULHERN, R. P. CRONIN, DON CISLE, TOM NOLAN, BOB O'BRIEN, MR. and MRS. PAUL HEI.^LW«•N, DES CURRIER, BILL FLACH, BILL PERRY, and DON CLAEYS. 
Among the crowd were also ED MERSMAN, .ANDY ROHAN, TOM BURNS, LOUIE BAR­SOTTI, JOE SILVESTER, MIKE GARRY, ERNIE RAUSCHER, RUDY LOPEZ, JOHN and AGNES MUTIPHY, BOB COYLE, and JIM SCHOEN. 
I sat in the cold north end zone with BILL BERK of Chicago and after the game went up to Chicago where DAVE CHAMPION and his wife Doe had a swell party in their new home at 2248 E. 100th Street. Among the guests were FRANK and HARRY GILLIG.AN, BILL FER­RICK, BOB OTOOLE, KEVIN OTOOLE, JACK MURPHY, JIM HOR.V, BILL MULLIGAN, BOB SNEE, JOHN CARON, ED BALL, GENE GILES, BILL O'NEILL, MARK CRONIN, BOB SCOTT and their dales. 
It would be possible to write for hours on what I learned from various alumni over the weekend but this issue is supposed to be limited in space so 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
if I can not tell what eacli alumnus is doing I guess the f^r thing to do is to save the dope until later. 
I hope that the Chnstmas season will bring you all joy and true happiness and that the coming New Year will be rich in blessings. 
M. the beginning of the football season Mt. Car­mel high school in Chicago found itself under the tutelage of Coach BOB McBRIDE, who was a member of Frank Leahj-'s 1946 national champions. A cum laude graduate who earned the Athletic Scholastic award of his class. Bob brought the ma^c of Notre Dame's "T" to Carmel. A gracll­ing taskmaster* Bob endeared himself to his pla>-ers by his thorough knowledge of the game and his sincerity, and to his fans by hb siring of victories. JOHNNY DEE, who was better known at N. D. as a basketball star, assisted Bob. The two piloted Ikft. Carmel to an 8 and 1 season. 
JOHN GLANVILLE, who recei\-cd a Master's degree at N . D. , is attending the University of Toronto in Canada. 
THOMAS L. McMAHOX holds the title of jumor principal assistant in the Office of Militar>' Government, U. S- Ciwlian .^ffaiis Division. His address is Plans & Operations, OMG Bavaria, APO 407, New York, N. Y. 
JOHN A. GULDAN is employed as an electrical engineer by the Sylvanb. Electrical Co. He is living at 741 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. 
The Chicago Rockets of the All-American Foot­ball Conference reported that although the knee operation on ANGELO BERTILLI last September was a complete success, he would be used only sparingly in the remaining games, but were count­ing heanly on him for next year-
Natural Law Institute 
[Continued from page 22} 
applied to the Positive Law if world peace is to result and endure. The only solution to World Peace is World Government, and this government must be based on a work­ing knowledge of the Natural Law as ap­plied to the Positive Law. The world to­day is as full of war as it was three years ago, even though an actual shooting war is not in progress. 
"People throughout the world must be taught to depend on the Natural Law, which requires will power to obey, as opposed to the positive law, which is base' purely on rationalism. Positive law is merely an act of opinion and reason. In .positive law, then, since one man's reason is as good as another, any man could make the laws. 
"Too many law schools throughout the United States are tending to base their teachings on the positive law, with little or no consideration given the Natural Law. This must be corrected if the nation is to have lawyers with a working understanding of law based on the Natural Law." 
The Natural Law Institute, which will be sponsored annually by the Law School, was made possible by a $1,500 contribution which the New York .•\lumni Club donated for the purpose. The gift, along with an­other $1,000 to the Bureau of Economic Research at the University (see "A Chal­lenge to Clubs" on page 25), was made last spring. 

Share Wages With Religious Agencies, President Urges 
(Because the following Associated Press story released from Washington on Nov. 16 
•jiillbe of particular interest to Notre Dame alumni, it is reprinted here.—Editor.) 
President Truman said today that regular sharing of payday by Americans would end the financial troubles of privately supported religious, educational and character building agencies. 
"Such a systematic setting aside of income would contribute much to the moral fibre of every citizen thus participating," Mr. Truman said, "and through the service made possible by such voluntary contribu­tions, the welfare of the Nation would be greatly strengthened." 
Mr. Truman said the percentage of giving to church and charity institutions requiring voluntary aid has declined while national in­come "has reached unprecedented heights." 
Pr, Quinlan Takes Over Mission Field in South 
Of the thousand or so priestless counties within the U. S., one may be taken off the list. Rev. Patrick T. Quinlan took, up residence in Kingtrec, S. C , in Williams­burg County, last September. It is a terri­tory about one-sixth the size of Rhode Is­land which formerly had been served by a priest in another county. 
Although there are about 40 known Catholics in the population of 43,000, Father Quinlan relates that soon after his arrival he was told by a Protestant clergy­man that he was the. first Catholic the clergyman had ever seen. 
The few members of the Church are, however, staunch believers. They have cherished the faith and taught it to their children, who have held it in spite of the predominantly non-Catholic surroundings. 
Father Quinlan is making his headquar­ters in a little two-room cabin in which he has combined an office with his sleeping quarters. 
The immediate program Father Quinlan advocates calls for priests and good Catho­lic laymen to move among the people. "We cannot as yet expect to draw them to the altar or before the pulpit. We must meet them in their homes, talk to them at the cross roads and in the general store. In these areas are being bom the children who will make up the population of our cities in the future. The future of the U. S. is today along the sideroads." 
With only 40 Catholics in a population of 43,000, Williamsburg County is indeed a fertile mission field. 
Foundation-First Year 
[Continued from page 73] 

10 years, receive in the neighborhood of $2,500,000 annually from gifts. (An in­creasing number of schools arc finding this augmented annual income the short cut to solution of similar problems, and a surpris­ing number arc increasing this annual gift income into the seven-figure bracket.) 
Give — Or Get Since approximately 7,000 alumni givers in 1947 have given $10 or under, there is the strong hope that in their increased un­derstanding and sympathy, they may them­selves increase their gifts to $50 or more each year, thereby answering the need in this important grouping. From the several thousand remaining non-giving alumni the Foundation expects to re­cruit donors as the University's merits be­come more evident to them. Loyalty and interest have never been lacking among the non-graduates. The new extension of facilities should result in sub­stantial numbers of donors among them. But the great field for expansion lies among the unlimited non-alumni. From the start, the Foundation has pointed out that alumni are primarily the representatives of the University, the outposts. The alumnus presently giving $50 or $100 or $500 may not be able to give more, but if in his com­munity he can uncover the friends of Notre Dame whose interests and sympathies arc similar to his own, he can readily multiply his giving in effect by enlisting their support. Since 1941, non-alumni donors have num­bered only 513. But in 1946, for example, they gave more than $168,000. The chal­lenge to some 200 City Chairmen, in mul­tiplying this .number of non-alumni donors, and, by implication, their generous support, is one of the great hopes of the Foundation. 
Fr, Cavanaugh Serves on Armed Forces Committee 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c. President, accepted an invitation from the Hon. James Forrestal, Secretary of Defense, to serve on a special civilian committee to study pres­ent pay schedules of the Armed Forces and make recommendations for possible revision upward of those schedules because of high living costs. 
The committee conferred with Secretary Forrestal at Washington on Dec. 10. At that time the committee studied the find­ings of a board of Army, Navy and Air Force officers, augmented by representatives of the Coast Guard, Coast and Geodetic Survey and Public Health Service, which A , for the last four months had been studying W;'; "•; the problem of inequalities and disparities in ser«cc pay compared with that of private industry. 
2>i^ecib4u of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
\ f''-
ARIZONA-PHOENIX-^ohn P. Joyce, '40, 830 
Forest Ave., Tempe, Ariz. 
TOCSON—Ted W. Witz, '29, BO.N: 628 

ARKANSAS—Burt L. Roberts, '16, 1325 Lincoln 
Ave., Little Rock (secretary) 

CALIFORNIA—LOS ANGELES—Thomas R. Ashe, '31, Globe Oil Tools Co., Los Nietos, Calif. 
NORTHERN—John W. Carey, '41, Hanna 
Center for Boys. 785 Market, Km. 402, San 
Francisco (San Francisco area) 

COLORADO—DENVER—Dr. Daniel G. Mon­
agban, '38, 440 William 

CONNECTICUT — CXJNNECTICUT VALLEY — 
Floyd R. Richards. '42, Radio Station WTIC. 
Hartford (Hartford area) 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY—D. Frank Mumane, "32, Summit Rd., Prospect, Conn. (Water­bury area) 
SOUTHWESTERN—John J. Galla. '33, 303 
Sprine St., Bridgeport (Bridgeport area) 

DELAWARli—Arthur A. Baum, '36. 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OP COLUMBIA —WASHINGTON-Daniel Culhane. '23, 3540 39th St. N. W. 
FLORIDA—George A. Brautigam, '29, 538 N. E. 
55th Terrace, Miami, Fla. 

ILLINOIS—FOX VALLEY—Dr. Philip C. Hem­
ming, '29, 399 Vincent PI., Elgin, 111. 
(Aniora-Elgin area) 
JOLIET—Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, 306 Euby St. PEORIA—Daniel J. Hecht, '44, 407 Barker Ave. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY —Donald A. Hen­
nessy, '37, Catholic Community High School, 
Sterling, III. (Rockford-Dixon area) 
SPRINGFIELD—Nicholas C. Amrhein, '39, 1623 S. Fourth St. 

INDIANA—CALUMET DISTRICT—Fred J. Sol-
man, Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, 
Ind. (secretary) ((^ary-Hammond area) 
EASTERN INDIANA—Charles F. Vogt, 207'/: 
E. Main St., Muncie (Muncie area) 
PORT WAYNE—Bernard T. Kearns, '29, 903 Pasadena Drive 
INDIANAPOLIS—Patrick J. Fisher, '36, 616 Indiana Trust BIdg. 
MICHIGAN CITY—Hugh L. Bums, '39, De­partment of Athletics, T^otre Dame, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Ind. and Mich.)— John E. Mclntyre, '31, 1514 E. LaSalle Ave., Soutii Bend (South Bend area) 
TRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Francis J. Hennebcrger, '31. 602 N. Hart St., Princeton, Ind. (Evansville-Vincennes area) 
; WABASH VALLEY—D. Emmett Forguson, '32. 721 N. 9th St, Lafayette, Ind. (Lafay­ette area) 
IOWA—DBS MOINES—Joseph E. Whalen, '29, Hotel Savery 
DUBUQUE—C. I. Krajewski, '16, 1775 S. Grandville Ave. 
SIOUX CITY—Robert A. Manning, '36, 2719 Nebraska St. (key man) 
TRI-CITIES—Alfred T. Erskine. Jr., '37, 712 Grand Court. Davenport, Iowa. (Davenport-Rock Island-Moline area) 

> KANSAS—EASTERN—Daniel F. Foley, '23, 122 
\ Spruce St., Leavenworth (Leavenworth area) KENTUCKY—William J. Woerner. '38. 208 May­
fair, Orford Place, (Louisville area) 

LOUISIANA—NEW ORLEANS—Jules K. de la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hnist 
NORTHERN—James R. Nowery, '29, P.O. 
Box 1545, Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) 

MARYLAND —BALTIMORE —Lewis J. O'Shea. '31, 307 St. Dunstan's Rd„ Homeland. 
MASSACHUSETTS—BOSTON—John V. Moran. 
•30, Badger, Pratt, Doyle & Badger, 53 State 
St, Boston. 

jaCHIGAN-BERRIEN COUNTY — William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Nlles (Niles-St Joseph-Benton Harbor area) BLUE WATER DISTRICT—William L. Wil­
son, '42, P.O. Bo.^ 295, Port Huron (Pott 
Huron area) 
CENTRAL—Dr. Edgar 3. Hermes, '18, 828 
N. Logan St., Lansing (Lansing area) DETROIT—Joseph A. Bach, '26, 505 Park 
Ave., c/o Detroit Lions 
GRAND RAPIDS—Joseph F. Deeb, 'SI, 600 
Cambridge Blvd. S.E. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.)—Norman C. 
Bartholomew. '15, 225 Cleveland Ave., Iron 
Mountain, Mich. (Iron Mt.-Marinette area) IRON RANGE (Mich.-Wis.) — Theodore A. 
Nolan, '33, Court House, Hurley, Wisconsin 
(Ironwood-Hurley area) JACKSON—Lyman H. Hill, Jr., 5205 V. S. 
127 S. SAGINAW VALLEY —Joseph C. Goddeyne. 
•11, 22.5 Carrol Rd., Bay City, Mich. (Sagi­
naw area) 

MINNESOTA—Robert M. Rogers, '43, 949 Grand 
Ave., S t Paul (Twin Cities area) 

MISSOURI—KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.)— 
Thomas M. Rcardon, '39, 1104 W. 76th Ter­
race, Kansas City, Mo. ST. LOUIS—Fred • C. Weber, Jr., '36, S639 
•University Drive 

MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., 
Helena. 

NEW JERSEY—CENTRAL —Michael J. BtSog,
'34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy (Perth 
Amboy area) NEW JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich, '35. 
27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) 

NEW YORK—BUFFALO—Donald W. Love, '35, 
6034 Main St., Williamsville, N. Y. CAPITAL DISTRICTT — James J. Drislane, 
•38, 75 State St, Albany, N. Y. CENTRAL—Mark E. Mooney, '26, 125 But­
ternut Drive, DeWitt (Syracuse area) MOHAWK VALLEY—Frank Donalty, '33, 23 
Beverly PI., Utica (Utica area) 
NEW YORK—Tierney A. O'Rourkc, '30, 76-12 35th Ave., Jackson Heights, N. Y. 
NORTHERN—Judge Cornelius J. Carey, '30, 12 Park St., Malone (Malone. area) 
ROCHESTER—William R. Bell, '25, 95 Ames St. SCHENECrrADY—John F. Hurley, '27, 83 Western Park%vay, Schenectady. 
TRIPLE CTTIES—James H. Hogan, '34, 42 Oak St, Binghamton, N. Y. (Binghamton-Johnson City area) 

OHIO—AKRON — Paul A. Bertsch. '29, 763 S. High. 
CANTON—William H. Belden, '36, 305 22nd St , N.W. 
CENTRAL — John J. Cannon, '30, 555 E. 
Broad St., Columbus (Columbus area) CINCINNAn—J. Wtdter Niouber. 'St. ZIM 

Alpine tl. 
CLEVELAND—Ki^ If. CNeill. '17. Ut 
'terminal Tower 
DAYTON—E. WillJain Hoyne. '42, 205 
Aveiraa 
HAWLTON — Man A. Fieinr. TT. 7m 
Rentaehler BMs. . ' UKA—George Shanahan. 432 W. Iliia St. OHIO VALLEY—Dr. Willlan IL AAamau. 
14 Edgevood St.. Wheeling. W. Tai (BdUn -
Wheelins area) 
SANDUSET-^olin J. IGUott, '27. 9M Os­
borne St. 
TIFFIN—Fred J. Wagner, '29,. 84'/i S. WaA­
inston St. 
TOLEDO—John R. Malone, '42. 480S Saaate 
St. TtiMo, Ohio 
TOUNGSTOWN—Clarence T. Sbedian. '49. 
Hie "Vindieator.'' 
OKLAHOIIA—TULSA—E. w i Leraux, 'SS, 1724 
S. Madiaan OKLAHOMA cnT—Haakdl Askew, 31 . 827 
N. W. 20th St. OREGON—Robert G. Molin, '40. SIS W. Alder 
St.. Portland 
PENNSYLTANIA—EASTERN—Leo S. Mdntjie. 
'28. 3004 Tomer St , Allentown (AUentowii-
Bethlebera area) 
ERIE-^ames B. Dwyer. '37. 400C State St. 
HARRISBURG—Francis C. Barimah. '37, 128 
S. 3rd St. . MONONGAHELA VALLEY — Edward 3. 
Dean. '2S, 11 Linden Ave.. H«ie»en, 7a. 
(Monessen area) 
FHILADEIiPBIA —Charles A. Oniley, '35. 
100 E. 'nimball Ave., Bavertown. Fa. 
SCRANTON—Louis J. Finske. 19. Gravd 
Fond No. 2. Clarks Summit, Fa. 
WESTERN-Lawrence J. OTboIe. '3*. 425 
S. Aiken Ave.. Pittsbarih (Pittsborsh aiM) WILKES-BARRE-Gilbcrt V. Perry. '31, 190 
Wyomins Ave.. Wyominr^ Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND aad S. E. MASSACHVSETTS— John J. McLangUin. '34. Mendon Bd., Cum­
berland HUI, R. L (Providence area) 
TENNESSEE—MEMPHIS—T. J. Foley. Jr.. '35. 
6666 S. McLean NASHVnXB—W. Kennedy Jones. '30, P.O. Box 773 
TEXAS—DALLAS—Walter L. Fleming, '40. 4549 Belfort Place HOUSTON —Robert C. Seoggins, '24, 430 
Hotnble Bldg. 
SAN ANTONIO—Leonard M.Hess, '25, 201 
Stanford-Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. GalUvan, '37, 1017 Keatns Bids.. Salt LiUce City 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley. '39. 3S0S Sem­inary Ave., Bicbmond 22. 
WASHINGTON—WESTERN—Charles F. Osbom. Jr.. '38. 603 C^tral Bldg., Seattle (Seattle area) ^ 
WEST' VIRGINIA—Joseph F. Neenan, '41, '4012. Venable Ave;, Charleston 
WISCONSIN—GREEN BAY—Harold L. londo. '24, Sop't, Green Bay Water Dept 
LACROSSE —John A. EUiott. '25, 1420 Kins St 
MILWAUKEE—Thomas E. Dixon, *4I, 127 
N. 74th St , Milwaukee IS 
SOUTH CENTRAL —John W. Boaefa. '25. 2115 Van Hise Ave., Madison (Madison area) 
A NOTRE DAME CONTRIBUTION TO AMERICAN CULTURE 
January 
Contributors: 
AVALDEMAR GURIAN, the editor, describes witli authority the development of Russia's ]3rcsent jDolicies. 
THOMAS T. McAVOY, 
c.s.c.j Head of the Histon-Department at Notre Dame, challenges the traditional interpretation of American Catholic history. 
AARON I. ABELL, pro­fessor of Historj- at Notre Dame, writes expertly on a subject that has long held his attention. 
BERNARD WALL was editor in the tliirties of The Colosseum and is, presently, editor of This Champing U'orld. 
R. STRAUSZ-HUPE, pro­fessor in the Universit)' of Pennsylvania and the author of noted works on interna­tional relations. 
CYRIL E. BL.'SLCK of the 
Histor)- Department at 
Princeton, is a student of 
constitutional problems in 
Eastern Europe. 
FRANK O'MALLEY, pro­fessor of English at Notre Dame, writes another inspiring study of a major modern prophet. 
The REVIEW OF POLITICS 
is a fine gift for a friend 
of Notre Dame. 
FOR ONE YEAR $3.00 ONE ISSUE $1.00 
FOREIGN SUBSCRIPTION $3.40 
THE 

REVIEW OF POLITICS 
Vol. 10 JANUARY. 1948 No. 
Waldemar Gurion: Thirty Years of the Soviet Regime Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.: The Formation of the Catholic Minority in the United States 1820-1860 
Aaron i. Abell: Labor Legislation in the United States: the Background and Growth of the Newer Trends 
Bernard Wall: Britain and the Crisis Robert Strausz-Hupe: U. S. Foreign Policy and the Balance of Power Cyril E. Block: The Greek Crisis—its Consti­tutional Background Frank O'Malley: The Passion of Leon Bloy 
SUBSCRIPTION BLANK 
The Editors of the REVIEW OF POLITICS Notre Dame, Indiana 
Please enter my subscription to the Review of Politics for. year(s), at $3.00 per year. 
Name :. 
Street. 

•
 Check enclosed City. 

•
 Please send bill State 







