The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
pTmim iiiiiiiiiitiiiiii 
•••a 

IN THIS ISSUE 
Univei'sal Notre Dame Night—And AVhere Frontispiece Glee Club Planning Eastern Easter Tour 163 Nominating Committees Are Appointed 164 Living Endowment, by Francis H. Hayes, '14 165 Suggestions for Reading 167 Editorial 171 Athletics 172 The Newer Notre Dame (pictorial) 176 Local Alumni Clubs 180 The Alumni 182 
The magazine is publislied montlily during the scholastic year by the Aiumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The STihscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of sinsle copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of 55.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Bor 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OP THE AMBSUCAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUJINI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor HARLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTEE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
MARK M . FOOTE, '73 Honorary President JOHN W. EGGEMAN, '00 President JAMES E . DEEKY, '10 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 Treasurer ALFRED C. EYAN, '20 Director GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 Director 
T. PAUL MCGAI^NON, '07 Director DON M. HAMILTON, '12 (ex officio) Director 
n<tiiiiiitiiitiiiittiii)iii • DIIIIIIIIIDIII «iiiiti«iiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii lllllllilllltlllM B 
Comment 
ALUMNI PROGRAM FOR SPRING 

1.
 Every graduate a paid-up member by June 1. 

2.
 Every Club holding a meet­ing Universal Notre Dame Night, April 21. 

3.
 Every Class scheduled for Reunion, back 100%. 

4.
 Every Class Secretary contributing regularly to the ALUMNUS. 

5.
 Every Club Secretary con­tributing regularly to the ALUMNUS. 

6.
 Every alumnus a voter in the annual election. 

7.
 Every Club represented at the Club Council, during Com­mencement. 


Last year, less than half the gradu­ates were paid up by June 1. 
Last year less than three-fourths of the Clubs held meetings, and re­ported them. 
Last year, the Class Reunions were attended by less than a fourth of the members of the Reunion Classes. 
Last year, only about a dozen Class Secretaries out of forty-one con­tributed regularly. 
Last year, only about half a dozen Club secretaries out of fifty were faithful. 
Last year, only twenty per cent of the membership voted in the annual election. 
So far, the Club Council is 100%, because next June is its inauguration. 
Do you wonder, when you read the above, that if you are so minded you can easily find flaws in the Associa­tion? 
Do you wonder that the University is not entirely sold on the alumni program? 
It seems that our first step in Uni­versity welfare is very obviously to put our own house in order. 
Qilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllliiii(iiiltlMtlMlii'iiiiiil>lllill>>)lllllliitiiiiliill(illtillMiaiiiiilillliitll)llMliiillllltiiiiiilllttllltlliitiiiMllltlliltlllltl)illlllliillltlllllllliillitll«liiitlllilliilllli>ll*l<i>l*l''*li[U 


Universal Notre Dame Night '"And ff'here! 
I (The following list is compiled on possibilities and suggestions, I'ather than on realities, | I in many cases. But the ALUMNUS hopes that some Notre Dame man in each of these com-| I munities mil make it a point to round up the brethren for that great occasion. For the | I Clubs, there should be no question. The other communities listed number from three or four | I to a dozen alumni. W^iere there are more than that, and no Club organization exists, the | I ALUMNUS suggests definite organization. The cooperation of all alumni is urged to make \ 
I this seventh annual Night a record-breaker.) 
CLUBS 
Albanj^ N. Y. Akron, O. Arkansas Buffalo, N. Y. Boston, Mass. Chicago, 111. Calumet Region Cleveland, 0. Cincinnati, 0. Central Ohio Connecticut Valley Daji;on, 0. Denver, Colo. Deti-oit, Mich. Des Moines, Iowa Dist. of Columbia Erie, Pa. 
Fox River Valley Fort Wayne, Ind. Hamilton, 0. Hiawatha Land Houston, Texas Intermountain Indianapolis, Ind. Joliet, 111. Kansas Citj', Mo. Kentucky Louisiana-Miss. Los Angeles, Calif. Memphis, Tenn. Milwaukee, Wis. Montana Nashville, Tenn. Nebraska New Jersey City of New York Northern California Oklahoma Philadelphia, Pa. Poi-tland, Ore. 
UNIVERSAL! 
Manila, P. I. Paris, France Montreal, Canada Shanghai, China Pilatos, Cuba Arequipa, Peru Havana, Cuba Rome, Italy Dacca, Bengal Mexico City Monterey, Mexico San Juan, Porto Rico Cartagena, Colombia 
Rochester, N. Y. Rock River Valley St. Joseph Valley St. Louis, Mo. Southwestern Texas Syracuse and Central N. Y. Toledo, 0. Tri-Cities Twin Cities Wabash Valley Western Pennsylvania Western Washington Women's Club (several) Youngstown, O. 
UNORGANIZED 
Tucson, Ariz. Miami, Fla. Rome, Ga. Boise, Idaho Aurora, 111. Elgin, 111. La Salle, HI. 
I 
Momence, 111. Ottawa, 111. Peoria, 111. Robinson, 111. Springfield, 111. Woodstock, 111. Anderson, Ind. Decatur, Ind. Evansville, Ind. Kokomo, Ind. Peru, Ind. Vincennes, Ind. Terre Haute, Ind. Dubuque, Iowa Mason City, Iowa Sioux City, Iowa Bay City, Mich. Grand Rapids, Mich. Flint, Mich. Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo, Mich. . Lansing, Mich. Ludington, Mich. Pontiac, Mich. Saginaw, Mich. Duluth, Minn. Fergus Falls. Minn, ""^icksburg. Miss. Chapel Hill, N. C. Grand Forks, N. D. Tiffin, 0. Crafton, Pa. Harrisburg, Pa. Kane, Pa. Reading, Pa. Sioux Falls, S. D. Beaumont, Texas Dallas, Texas Charleston, W. Va. Weston, W. Va. LaCrosse, Wis. Rawlins, Wyo. 

(Out of the above, there should be no less than 100 meetings!) 
iiiittiiiiiiiiDiiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiaiii* lllllltlllinilltllltlliiiiilitllllMlllttlllMltlllllllllllilllllllllll) 
& ..|3 
TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. FEBEUARY, 1930 No. 6 
Glee Club Planning Eastern Easter Tour 
N 
INETEEN HUNDRED AND THIRTY marks another mile­stone in the history of the University Glee Club when it opens its Easter Tour, April 20. 
H. JEKOME PAKKER, '30 
Business Manager 

The business manager is complet­ing negotiations throughout the East from which territory the itinerary will be drawn up. The following is a tentaitve list of concert cities: Rochester, New York City, Brooklyn, Garden City, L. I., and Binghampton, New York; Paterson, New Jersey; Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; Washing­ton, D. C; Cleveland, Ohio; and De­troit, Michigan. The majority of the 
concerts are to be sponsored by Notre Dame Alumni. 
H. Jerome Parker, Business Mana­ger of the Glee Club, is filling this office for the second year. During his earlier years in the Club he was an assistant to the former manager whom he succeeded in 1928. Jerry is a brother of Howard R Parker, '17, of Sacramento, California—a fore­runner of the Glee Club. 
The Club has one of the greatest recording histories of university mu­sical organizations in the country, having recorded for Brunswick, Vic­tor and Columbia phonograph com­panies. Such was the success of these recordings and continued concert work that Warner Brothers secured the Club in 1928 to make the first "talkie" in college circles—a "Vita­phone." The recording was done in Hollywood, California. 
Its most recent triumph was made over the Armour Hour program from 
•Station KYW, Chicago, on November 
15. This was the eve of the football game between the teams of Notre Dame and Southern California. The concert was presented over -the National Broadcasting hookup, which covered 37 states. The Club received many meritorious press notices fol­lowing this performance. 
During the past three years, the Glee Club has reached from the -At­lantic to the Pacific coast, from the Gulf of Mexico to the Great Lakes, 
DIRECTOR CASASANTA, '23 

Unusnal Success Under His Direction 
singing  in  every  major  city  of  
America.  
Professor  Joseph  J. Casasanta,  

Dean of the School of Music, is director of the Club. Under his capable direction, the Glee Club, as well as the Band and Orchestra, have received nothing, but the highest praise from critics. The success of these organizations is in itself a'fit­ting tribute to the genius of the man. 
THE 1929 CLUB 
Most of Its Members Remain 




Nominating Committees Are Appointed 
President Announces Two Committees for Important Naming of f 930-31 Officers 
« 4 

John W. Eggeman, '00, President of the Association, has announced the following committees which will nom­inate the candidates for the offices of the Associaiton to be filled for 1930-31. 
The Committees are: (a) Grattan 

T. Stanford, '04, 45 Nassau St, New-York City, chairman; Arthur E. Car­mody, '15, 819 Slattery Bldg., Shreve­port. La.; and WendeU T. Phillips, '12, care of Maginnis & Walsh, Archts., Boston, Mass.; (b) William 
P. Devine, '90, 925 Edgecomb Place, Chicago, III., chairman; Francis P. Burke, '03, 2109 Grand Ave., Mil­waukee, Wis., and Don P. O'Keefe, '04, Chevrolet Motor Co., General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich. (The committees are designated a. and b. for reference only. They rank equally, and nominations are listed without reference to which committee made them. 
According to the Constitution, the names of these committees are to be carried in the ALUMNUS with a re­quest for suggestions from the mem­bers of the Association. March 30 is the final date for the reports of these committees. They are required to make different nominations for presi­dent, but may duplicate any of the other offices. 
Offices to be filled for the coming year by general election are Honorary President, President, Vice-President, Treasurer, and a Director for a four-year term. 
Judge Eggeman becomes ex officio a member of the Board of Directors for one year, succeeding Don Hamil­ton, '12, who now holds that position. The Director succeeds Alfred C. Eyan, '20, former Secretary of the Association, who has held a director­ship for four years. 
The problems of the Association have assumed an importance that de­mands the close attention of the men on these conunittees who vdll be re­sponsible for the officers elected to conduct these affairs for the coming year. In view of the new Living En­dowment Plan, it is more imperative than ever before that the right men be placed in the right offices. The ALUMNUS congratulates Judge Eg­geman upon his choice of men whose loyalty to Notre Dame and interest in the Association assure this end. 
Th ALUMNUS prints herewith the list of Past Presidents of the Associa­tion (since the reorganization in 1908). Members are urged, if so moved, to make suggestions for any of the elective offices to members of the Committee bet\veen now and March 20. 
1908-09 Hon. William P. Breen 1909-10 Hon. Warren A. Cartier 1910-11 Francis O'Shaughnessy 1911-12 Daniel P. Murphy 1912-13 Hon. William P. Higgins 1913-14 Charles M. Bryan 1914-15 Byron V. Kanaley 1915-16 Angus MacDonald 1916-17 W. A. Mclnerny 1917-18 C. C. Mitchell 1918-19 Harry IL Hogan 1919-20 Pat Malloy 1920-21 Joseph J. Sullivan 1921-22 Joseph Byrne, Sr. (deceased) 1922-23 F. Henry Wurzer 1923-24 John H. Neeson 1924-25 Hugh A. O'Donnell 1925-26 William P. McPhee 1926-27 Daniel J. O'Connor 1927-28 John P. Murphy 1928-29 Donald M. Hamilton 1929-30 Hon. John W. Eggeman 
It is an interesting and edifying fact to note that, with the regrettable exception of the late Joseph Byrne, Sr., all of these men honored in the past with the presidency of the Asso­ciation now comprise the strong nu­cleus about which its development is building. 
TTie past Honorary Presidents (since 1908) form a list of men whose identity has always been one with the interests of Notre Dame and the Association: 
Very Eev. Andrew Morrissey, C.S.C. Very Bev. John Dinnen Eev. John T. O'Connell Eev. Denis Clarke Eev. John L. Burke Eev. D. J. Spillard Eev. Luke Evers Very Eev. Peter Blessing Col. William J. Hoynes Et. Eev. Francis Gavisk Et. Eev. Peter Muldoon Eev. William A. Maloney, C.S.C. Eev.'Maurice Grifiin Eev. Michael Shea Prof. Edward J. Maurus Mark M. Foote 
Election of an honorary president is left to the discretion of the nom­inating committees, though the ten­dency is to make it annual to include the many friends that the growing Association activities bring to light. 
The ALUMNUS cannot urge too strongly upon members the need and the duty of active participation in the conduct of the Association. Members of committees are always more than willing to receive suggestions from members at large. It is impossible, with the present scope of the Asso­ciation, for any man to know the merits that unquestionably distinguish many of his fellow alumni in the opposite ends of the country. 
The Association has been fortunate in its presidents and their assisting officers. But the development de­mands every attention so that the selection is no longer left to fortune, but made a matter of common in­terest. 
Ballots, as called for in the Consti­tution, will be sent out before May 
20. The reports of these committees Avill appear in the April and May issues of the ALUMITOS. More de­tails of election will accompany these announcements. 
February, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Living Endowment 
By FRANCIS H . HAYES, '14 

Chairman Alumni Committee on Living Endoivment 
Nearly all Protestant universities and some of our state schools are the recipients of large annual gifts dur­ing the lifetime of the donor as well as bequests under wills. There is no reason why the Catholic laity should leave the entire responsibility of Catholic education to the clergy. The needs of Catholic universities must be brought to the attention of our lay­men. 
In the article by Father Charles O'Donnell, which appeared in the January issue of the ALUMNUS, Notre Dame men were informed of the needs of the University, and now that they have this information, they should put forth their best efforts to assists their Alma Mater. 
It might be well to remind the graduates of our law school that they can be of especial assistance to Notre Dame by telling their clients who are about to draw wills what the i-eal needs of the University are, and even suggesting to them that they remem­ber Notre Dame in their charitable bequests. 
It must be remembered that the living endowment plan is not intended in any way to interfere with gradu­ates and friends of the University seeking large sums as gifts and be­quests and that it should be regarded merely as a very small auxiliary. 
What does "li%'ing endowment mean? It means that instead of having millions of dollars invested in real estate and securities that the University has a large number of living persons who agree to make an­nual contributions to the general funds of the University. 
When the majority of us think of endowment our mental picture is that of the millionaire philanthropist. Under the plan as outlined every man can contribute to this fund in pro­portion to his means; for instance: The members of the graduating class next June will be asked to make a pledge which they may pay in month­ly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual payments. We know that the earning capacity of the members of this class will be small during their first years in the business world; therefore, con­tributions will be in proportion, rang­ing perhaps from |5.00 to $25.00 per year. However, as the incomes of the members of the 1930 class increase, they will be able to increase their an­nual contributions to the living en­doivment fund. 
It is thus possible for each and every one of us, old students and alumnus, to feel that he is doing within his means something for his Alma Mater. It is to be hoped that each of us Avill sign a pledge card for such amount as he feels he can afford to contribute, the principal thing be­ing that each of us will contribute some small amount, even so small as §5.00 per year. 
In order that you may not lose the effect of what these small contribu­tions •will amount to, allow me to quote the figures on the Dartmouth College Fund: The first year the plan was in operation, which was some ten or twelve years ago, the total received from contributions amounted to about 55,000.00. This would mean that the College was having the advantage of about $100, 
000.00 in paid in endowment. Such contributions now amount to §125, 
000.00 a year, which is equal to 5% on §2,500,000.00, so that at the pres­ent time it represents the equivalent of paid endowment of §2,500,000.00. Thus you can see that your small con­tributions will be of very material benefit to the University. 
It would be more than gratifying if we were able to contribute a very substantial sum the first year. We certainly want to do as well as Dart­mouth. That means §5,000.00 the first year. 
When you receive your subscrip­tion card, fill it out and return it im­mediately. Do not delay. If pos­sible, send a check for your total sub­scription or for the first instalment with your card. 
REACTION 
(Letters from Alumni) 

The Editor wishes first to quote a significant statement by President Hoover, which appeared in "What the Colleges Are Doing," a publication of Ginn & Co. 
"All the things we hope for in the future must take their root in our educational institutions. We must de­pend largely upon the endowed col­leges and universities for the stand­ards of education in America. Our state institutions are overburdened with numbers; their support from taxation is unable to keep pace with educational demand; they cannot in­itiate the new, fundamental things that are necessary for the mainte­nance and advancement of standards. The inspiration and lifting up of pub­lic opinion which in turn will support the state universities on all these questions must receive contributions from the independent colleges. 
"We have an obligation to our in­dividual Alma Mater of at least a minimum equal to the amount that the institution has expended upon us. That obligation is even greater be­cause we each incurred it at a time when we could not then individually afford to repay. It was an advance to each of us on honor that we should support the institution that has en­abled us to take greater and more im­portant positions in the world, to do more effective work than we could have otherwise accomplished. 
This expenditure of money should be returned for the education of those who follow us. Unless we do so we have prejudiced the opportunities that have been given us. If we could inculcate this spirit of obligation amongst the men who have left our universities the financial problems of our colleges and universities would be solved." 
Following are some comments from readers of the ALUMNUS received after the circulation of the thought-provoking article of Father C harles O'Donnell in the January issue, and the Alumni Association plan which accompanied it: 
From Walter Duncan, treasurer of the Association, and as such pathet­ically familiar with the financial habits of our alumni, comes the following statement: 
The Living Endowment Plan as outlined in the January ALUMNUS in answer to Father Charles O'Don­nell's presentation of the needs of the University opens a new world to the Alnnrni. 
Appro-ximately eight years have been spent in the petty problems. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Febiiiary, 19S0 
though essential, confronting any be­ginning organization. Office, maga­zine, Classes Clubs, dues—these are but cogs in the machine. It has taken time to assemble them. That, the Association and the University now believe, is accomplished. 
It is time for the machine to test its power of motion. Living Endow­ment is that movement. If success­ful, the machine will bring to Notre Dame the support of the outside world, intellectual as well as physical. In turn, the development of Notre Dame will furnish a complete phys­ical and intellectual haven for the machine. 
How much Notre Dame owes you, and how much you owe Notre Dame should not be causes for quibbling. The mutual goal is one in which the combined efforts of Universitj' and Alumni are essential, and is one in which pride of achievement will be mutual. 
Forget entirely the dollar sign. Study Notre Dame's needs and Notre Dame's relations to you as you study home o\vnership, or life insurance, or your family problems. When you know the facts, the dollar sign •will appear in the proper place, as merely the means to an end. 
Hon. Warren A. Cartier, treasurer of the Association for 16 years, writes from Port Myers, Fla., where he is spending the ivinter: My dear Jim:— 
When the January number of the ALUMNUS reached me, I read with much interest the two articles, "The Needs of the University" by Father O'Donnell and "Notre Dame's Alum-ni-The Solution." 
Both are along the right lines and show deep study. In my opinion Father O'Donnell does not go far enough, even though he mentions "that much more might go into the statement." Any one familiar with conditions, know that there are many "needs" unmentioned by him that Notre Dame should have, but these 
•will come in the future. At present are the pressing needs that must be attended too. 
"The Solution." I am satisfied that the individual -A.lumnus •will see this and do his part as he •news it. The main thing is to put it up to him in the proper light. And •why not? Surely Notre Dame gave him that something which he could not get anywhere else. An education, yes, but that other which has done for him that which •will be •with him through his whole life, materially as­sisting him in whatever he under­takes. 
Will the Alumni member see this? Tes, I am sure he will, because in my opinion every son of Notre Dame is loyal, he only wants to know and be convinced of the necessities. 
My kindest personal regards to you and all from this land of sun­shine. 
Prank O'Shaughnessy, whose coun­sel has been a valuable aid in the for­mulation of plans for the further­ance of all alumni activities, com­ments: 
The article in the ALUMNUS for January, by Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, President, on the "Needs of the University" shatters the illu­sion that many have had that the in­come of the University is in step with its need and growth. It is obvious that Notre Dame must have more help from its Alumni and its friends if it is to consolidate and hold its position of eminence in the educa­tional field. 
Father O'Donnell has very clearly pointed out that the chief sustaining force of University has been its en­dowment of flesh and blood which is the religious of Holy Cross, through whose energy and sacrifice Notre Dame has attained its growth, but this endo^vment should not be relied upon to build halls and dormitories and proCTde Foundations and Chairs in the faculty. That support should come from without, through money endowments. Notre Dame will al­ways have the flesh and blood endow­ment but this should be its power in reserve, its spiritual influence and its sustaining strength. 
Tlie Living Endowment plan out­lined in the same issue of the ALUM­NUS to provide money for the urgent needs of the school may ac­complish considerable if the Alumni give and will accustom themselves to giving to this Endowment Fund and encourage others to give who have means available for worthy purposes. 
Francis O'Shaughnessy. 
Joseph Byrne, Jr., one of the alum­ni leaders in the East, and an alum­nus whose name has been linked •with all of the progressive movements of University and Association, •writes: Dear Jim:— 
I read •with great interest and com­plete agreement the splendid outline on the needs of the University, by Father Charles O'Donnell, in the January ALUMNUS. j 
It seems almost unbelievable that our University has so marveloiisly grown with such small aid by its alumni, and the requests of Notre Dame for support have been extreme­ly reasonable. 
The time is at hand for all alum­ni clubs to accentuate to members the immediate action of all to expedite the plans of our President. 
John E. Kenney, president of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York, one of the strongest and most active units of the Association and an invaluable link between the Univer­sity and the East, adds: Dear Mr. Armstrong: 
I congratulate the Notre Dame ALUMNUS for its good work in gen­eral and its January issue in partic­ular. The urgent needs as outlined by the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, President of the University, have been clearly placed before the alumni body. The Living Endowment Plan as proposed by John W. Egge­man and James E. Armstrong seems to us a very happy solution of the general problem. 
We await further details so that we may work toward the active par­ticipation of every member of our Club in carrying this plan forward. I assure you of our fullest co-opera­tion. 
One of the most interesting letters along the line of support, comes from a member of the Class of '28, and seems so typical of the support that has been forthcoming from the younger alumni, that the Editor makes bold to reprint it, omitting the \vriter's name in lieu of permission: Dear Jim: 
Your appeal for funds has touched my heart, to say nothing of my pocket-book (such as it is). Am en­closing herewith Money Order for Five Dollars. This hurts me more than it does you but, when I consider all the things that I have received through my connection with Notre Dame and my association with Notre Dame men, I can never hope to repay the debt I o^we her. I consider it a moral obligation to help out in a material way to the best of my abil­ity and the size of my pocket-book. This -Kill make Ten Dollars for the year beginning last June and I •will be willing to start out next June •with Ten instead of Five. 
If I were at all able to give more at this time, Jim, I would gladly do so, but at this time it is practically impossible. When I make my first million I will give a good part of it to the school—^that's a promise. 
(Continued on Page 17S) 

February, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 167 


Suggestions for Reading 
The ALUMNUS is particulariy pleased to call atention this month to t\vo books of special significance to Notre Dame alumni. 
Both books were named by the Catholic Book Club as their selection for their readers in January. 
GEORGE N . SHUSTER 

"The Catholic Church and Liter­ature," by George N. Shuster, AB.. '15, A.M. '20, associate editor of the Commonweal, formerly professor of English at the University, is one of the volumes, which is part of a series, being edited by Hilaire Belloc, and published by Macmillan. 
"The Catholic Church and Art," by Ralph Adams Cram, LL.D. '24, is the other of the comparatively brief volumes chosen. 
Both have received very favorable comment from the critics, and are considered valuable contributions to current Catholic literature. The Shuster treatise outlines the present Catholic authors and their works, and contains an interesting criticism of the conditions in Catholic literature in America, with an explanation of the causes. 
Dr. Cram's book is especially sig­nificant in its high tribute to Notre Dame, which was mentioned in the article by Father Charles O'Donnell, in the January ALUMNUS. The particular quotation, brief but elo­quent, is as follows: 
"It is useless to expect a change of heart on the part of any of the e.\ist­ing 'schools of fine arts' that would 
DR. EALPH ADAJIS CBAJI 

result even in a recognition of reli­gion or a willingness to meet its needs and satisfy its demands. They are, and always have been, estab­lished on the basis of pre-Christian art, and they could hardly change their basic theory and their resulting technical method. At the present time, they are going on from this, and logically, to an attempted expres­sion of our present technological civi­lization, and doing it very well. They can only be left to do their chosen work, but since there is now a new and growing consciousness on the part of the Christian minority, both Catholic and Protestant, of the vital necessity of art of every sort, I see nothing for it but the establishing of other schools founded on a basis that will guarantee, as far as possible, the training that may, by the grace of God, result in the production of specifically Christian art. As I have already indicated, this sort of thing is even now being done, though in a very small way. The Acadamie de Saint-Luc in Belgium, conducted by the Christian Brothers, and Notre Dame University in America, are the only two I know of, and the latter 
deals with architecture alone . . ." 
Notre Dame's architects may well feel proud of this tribute to the work they are doing in their profession and the wark being done in that department at Notre Dame. Prof. Francis W. Kervick, head of the department, assisted by Vincent Fagan, '20, and Gerald Brubaker, '22, have worked steadily upon the solid principles as advocated by Dr. Cram. The fruits are evident in such state­ments as the following, taken from the Catholic Club's letter concerning Dr. Cram's volume: 
"It is illununating to find what the author calls 'the phenomenon of the sudden appearance of a great number of young architects in the United States, competent and Catholic 
PROF. FRANCIS W . KEBVICK 

minded.' To encourage this group, the author advises the establishment of schools of architecture similar to the Acadamie de Saint-Luc in Bel­gium, and the school of architecture at Notre Dame University." 
Rev. James F. McElhone, C.S.C, '11, is the author of a new book, "Particular Examen," which Herder has published. 
Notre Dame educators will be in­terested in several recent periodical articles. "Putting on the High School Play" is the title of an article by Brother Agatho, C.S.C, '25, in a re­cent issue of Catholic School Interests. For some years Brother Agatho has been dramatic director and English teacher in Cathedral High School, Indianapolis. 
To the current number of the Cath­olic School Journal, a monthly pub­lished in Milwaukee, Brother Ernest, C.S.C, '25, contributes an article on "Correlating Religion and English." The author is librarian and teacher of English, Cathedral H. S., Indian­apolis. 
Dr. Bernard S. Maloy, Chicago, a member of the class of 1900, who left before graduation to enter Rush Medical College, is the author of a book entitled "Legal Anatomy and 
(Continued on Page 178) 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS February, 1930 
Seventh Universal Notre Dame Night, April 21 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS for 

May, 1924, carried twenty-seven re­
ports of the first Universal Notre 
Dame Night obsen-ance by the alum­
ni. There were 13 other meetings on 
that night, not carried in that issue. 
Thirty-two alumni Clubs participated. 
Today there are fifty-five organized 

Clubs and hundreds of Notre Dame 
men in smaller groups throughout 
the world. The ALUMNUS expects 
ONE HUNDRED MEETINGS of 
Notre Dame men on Universal Notre 
Dame Night. 
Whether there are two or three of 

you, or two or three hundred of you, 
the Night offers an opportunity for 
you to reunite in body and spirit with 
Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
An added feature of the 1930 

Night is that it comes on Easter Mon­
day Night, a time when the under­
graduates will be, for the most part, 
able to participate in the various local 
celebrations. 
Time was when tiie Night was 

planned carefully so that it might not 
conilict with the activities of other 
organizations. The Board of Direc­
tors set the Night this year on the 
date nearest its traditional place on 
the calendar, conscious of its coin­
cidence with Easter Monday, but also 
conscious that NOTRE DAME 
CLUBS ARE AS IMPORTANT AS 
ANY OTHER ORGANIZATIONS. 
If there is a conflict of plans, see that 
your plans are made first, and most 
attractive. In fact, it seemed to the 
Board particularly fitting that Notre 
Dame organizations throughout the 
world could best interpret the proper 
spirit of Easter Monday celebrations. 
It is well, in passing, to keep this 
point in mind. 
Efforts will be made this year to have the observance of the Night more general than last year. Various radio stations cooperated in broad­casting Notre Dame music, and sev­eral Club programs. This year it is hoped that even more publicity and cooperation can be secured. An­nouncements of this development will be made in the March issue. 
The .A.LUMNUS urges all local Clubs to enlist the cooperation of their local broadcasting stations in carrying Notre Dame music or speeches to the community. The names of any stations thus secured will be printed in the March and April issues of the ALUMNUS if submitted. A great deal of good can be done for Notre Dame through this 
contact, and the sponsoring of such a 
program should have a very substan­
tial appeal to the station themselves. 
Boys now prominent in school, 

members of the Championship foot­
ball team, members of the debating 
teams, members of the University 
Theater, will be home for Easter, giv­
ing you a great deal of interesting 
material for your programs. 
Members of the faculty will be able 

to be with you in almost any com­
munity during the holiday period, 
making the faculty possibilities of the 
Night unusually good. 
The Glee Club is planning an 

eastern trip, and will probably be 
heard by one of the eastern clubs, 
perhaps on the radio, on the Night. 
Plans are being worked up now for 
this feature. 
Ten national officers of the Associa­

tion are available for intelligent, in­
teresting presentations of the prob­
lems and the plans of the Association 
and their relations to Notre Dame and 
the future. 
Social functions are the usual, and probably the most stimulating, fea­tures of the programs of the Clubs for the Night. The ALUMNUS merely wishes to'suggest that some­where in these programs a place be found for a brief development of something seriously reminiscent of the strong tie that exists bebveen Notre Dame and the Alumni; that some­where a serious thought be inserted for the promotion of a better public conception of Notre Dame's place in the academic and civic field. An active publicity committee can do a great deal for this work in advance of the actual observance. 
The Alumni Office, as always, is filing to do everything possible to cooperate in making the Night a suc­cess. If you want a list of the N. D. men in your community, ask for it. If you want facts about any phases of Notre Dame, ask for them. If you want Notre Dame music, cheers, etc., ask for them. While the Oflice cannot be one hundred per cent efficient (cf. any report on dues), it is both will­ing and eager to go the limit in pro­moting any service asked. 
Incidentally, to bring up a peren­nial subject, it would be very nice if the majority of the Clubs could point with pride to payments in the annual payment of dues column as up to or exceeding the quotas set. BUls have recently been sent out which have re­
duced the effort of paying dues to a 
minimum, and if your Club is below 
par, the Office cannot help but think 
that at least a part of the failure lies 
on the outside. If you will mention 
this in any literature you send to your 
members concerning the Night, it may 
not look like a strong appeal, but 
eventually it will help us all. 
Last, but not least, start now on 

your Secretaries, or whomever you 
appoint as official scribe, drilling in 
the urgent need of getting reports of 
the Night in for the May ALUIiINUS 
early! The same Night if possible; 
no later than the next day, and the 
23rd as the absolute sell-out! 
Keep this broadside in mind—offi­cers and members, and non-Club groups. Act on it. 
ONE HUNDRED MEETINGS ON APRIL 21! 
Preying Upon Alumni 
The ALUMNUS has long hesitated 

to print stories that come in rather 
infrequently, but still too often, about 
men representing themselves as Notre 
Dame men, who are capitalizing up­
on the Notre Dame sentiment among 
our alumni to gain various ends, us­
ually to cash bad checks. 
Two fairly close instances have 

arisen recently, and it looks as though 
the time has come, for the sake of 
protecting the bona fide alumni, to be 
explicit. 
A letter from an alumnus in New 

York City says that a man giving the 
name of A. T. Durbin, Kenton, Ohio, 
and posing as a former student, 
cashed two bad checks there by virtue 
of an exceedingly clever line. 
Another letter from Kansas City reports a person giving the name of 
T. M. Borsey, posing as a former stu­dent and as a resident of Indianapolis while a student, succeeded in cashing two substantial checks there on the strength of his N. D. connections, which had proved to be worthless when the letter was written. 
These instances are not printed to work an injustice upon any individual. But they are the culmination of en­tirely too much abase of the honest fraternity that exists among Notre Dame men. The ALUMNUS f<*;ls that all members of the Association should be acquainted with the circum­stances. 
February, 1930 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
Notre Dame Closely Linked to Aviation 
to the fact that the very early theories that are now conunon prac­tices were developed in Notre Dame's laboratories." 
The ALUMNUS also was reminded that two recently deceased alumni, James P. Fogarty of Philadelphia, and Albert Kachnr, who died in the Philippines, were privileged to assist Dr. Zahm in his early experiments. 
Dance Schedule 

Dances for the rest of the year are announced by the Faculty Dance Committee: 
Feb. 21—Law Club Formal. 
Feb. 28—Junior Prom. 
March 1—Junior Dinner Dance. 
May 2—K. of C. Formal. 
May 9—Senior Ball. 

May 16—Monogram Club (tenta­tive) 
William Sullivan, general chair­man of the Junior Prom, urges all alumni who wish to attend that function and the formal dinner dance the evening following, to communi­cate with him at once, as the names must be handed in with the list of all who are attending. Attendance this year will be larger than ever be­fore, but the number will have to be limited, the warning to apply early. Bill's address is Walsh Hall. The dinner dance will be at the Oliver Hotel. Wayne King's orchestra is playing for the Prom itself, which is to be at the Palais Eoyale. 
Bob Eggeman, son of the President of the Association, is president of the Law Club, which is sponsoring its famous formal on the 21st. John H. Flanagan, of Newbnrgh, N. Y., is general chairman. 
"Home Town" Juggler 

The "Home Town" edition of the Juggler met with much success. Any­one who remembers the stacks of home town papers on any of the hall tables is familiar with the wealth of material. The Alumni Number is next. 
State Oratorical Contest 

The Indiana State Oratorical Con­test was scheduled for Notre Dame, Feb. 14, when the ALUMNUS went to press. Frank Corbett, the 1930 Breen Medallist will defend Notre Dame's title. James Roy, last year's competing orator, won not only the state title but the national inter­collegiate title.. 
The ALUMNUS is pleased to re­print herewith a recent photograph of Albert F. Zahm, holder of four degrees and the Laetare Medal from Notre Dame, whose appointment to the Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics at the Library of Congress, newly founded, was announced in the Jan­uary issue. 
Dr. Zahm is a brother of the famous Rev. John Zahm, C.S.C, a gi-aduate of Notre Dame, '71, famous author and traveler. Father Zahm accompanied Theodore Roosevelt on the famous expedition in South America which resulted in the dis­coveiy of the River of Doubt. Father Zahm died in 1921. 
An interesting book has been called to the attention of the Editor by Eev. John Cavanaugh, its owner. It is the proceedings of the International Con­ference on Aerial Navigation (the first conference ever held on this sub­ject in America), held in Chicago in 1893. The significance of the book to Notre Dame is contained in its in­troduction : 
"The proposal to hold an Interna­tional Conference on Aerial Naviga­tion in Chicago during the Columbian Exposition first originated with Prof. 
A. F. Zahm of Notre Dame Uni­versity. He conferred with Mr. C. C. Bonney, President of the World's Congress Au.xiliary, an organization under the auspices of the World's Columbian E.vposition, intended to promote the meeting of various congresses; then he interested various persons in the subject, and in Decem­ber, 1893, a committee of organiza­tion was formed." 
Prof. Zahm, then a member of the University faculty, presented two papers at the Congress, the results of experiments conducted at Notre Dame. One was "Atmospheric Gusts and Their Relation to Flight" and the other "Stability of Aeroplanes and Flying Machines." Speakers from all over the world wei'e represented on the program. When it is recalled that this Conference took place thirty-seven years ago on a topic that is still considered in its pioneer stages, the value of the contributions of Dr. Zahm to the field is enhanced. His new appointment is merited recognition of signal leadership dur­ing the whole period of development in this field, including outstanding services during the World War for the government, and invaluable con­tributions to the development of the ideas of many of the foremost figures in American aviation. 
Excerpts from the letter of pre­sentation to Father Cavanaugh at­tached to the copy of the "Proceed­ings" indicates the esteem in which Dr. Zahm and his work are held by the public (Mr. George L. O'Brien, 
DK. ALBERT ZAHJI (Photo by Harris & Ewingr, Washington. D.C.) 
South Bend, a student at Notre Dame under Dr. Zahm, was the original owner): 
". . . . He sent me the book at the time because when I was at Notre Dame I helped him with some of his experiments. .. . I loaned it to a friend of mine in New York some time ago. I got nervous about get­ting it back, so I asked him for it, and suggested that he could get the information that he wanted from the New York Public Library. He in­forms me that the book is not in the New York Public Library, and that it is a tremendously valuable book. He gave me the startling information that it would be doubtful if ?200.00 would buy a copy of the book. . . . When you consider that Albert Zahm was the first one to attempt to co­ordinate the minds of people who were thinking of aviation, and that he was a loyal son of your institu­tion, this gives you a sentimental in­terest in it. It seems to me that at some time attention should be called 
170 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS February, 1930 
The Literature of American School and College Athletics 
(Summary of Bulletin Twenty-four) {The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.) 
Following the appearance of Bulle­"4. The claim that athletics serious­completely adopted the doctrine of tin Number Twenty-Three, "Ameri­ly interfere with scholarsliip appar­faculty control have been found to be can College Athletics," the Carnegie ently remains unproved although doing most to impair the status of Foundation for the Advancement of there is some recent evidence that the amateur" in college sport. "On Teaching announces the publication of athletes do not reach fully the levels the one hand, therefore, we meet with a study of "The Literature of Amer­of intellectual attainments their in­high claims regarding the purifying ican School and College Athletics," by herent ability would make possible. values of faculty control and are con­Professor W. Carson Eyan, Jr, of fronted, on the other hand, with re­
Athletics, Scholarships, and Longevity. 
Swarthmore College, with a fore­sults of its application that are help­word by Dr. Henry S. Pritchett, (Page xi) ful neither to sport nor to education." president of the Foundation. 
"5. As to health, college athJetes 
Sport and Education 

are found to have better life-expect­
A Digest of a Literature ancy than the general population, but (Page vii)

(Contents; Pages xii-xvi) 

no better than the college population, 
Dr. Pritchett continues: "It is clear In Bulletin Number Twenty-four which is itself a selected group, and that many of the advantages that Professor Ryan digests, excerpts, and not so good as that of college men of are claimed for present-day sport" comments upon more than one thou­high scholarship rank. 

as set forth in Bulletin Number sand important books, periodical ar­"6. 'More athletics rather than less Twenty-four, "represents the desires ticles, and discussions concerning athletics' is generally accepted as one and hopes of its proponents rather American college athletics. These of the remedies for athletic ills—that than demonstrated results. To those statements, selected from a much is, an opportunity for all youth to who have at heart the cause of Amer­larger mass of printed material, are participate in athletics through intra­ican higher education and of Ameri­presented in some fifteen divisions, in­mural and similar activities provided can sport, only one course is possible. 
cluding athletics as educational, the as a regular part of the educational For the sake of every youth whom athletic controversy, scholarship and program. 
school and college sport touches, the athletics, coaches and coaching, school "7. Coaches and athletic directors desired moral and social values that athletics, athletics for girls and wom­are regarded as highly important it can yield must be made realities. 
en, sportsmanship, professionalism, teachers of youth, whose personal and Only in this way can the develop­and separate games and sports. professional qualifications must be of ment of organized athletics in Amer­Many of these topics are highly con­the best, and who must understand ican colleges be justified." 
troversial. how to teach, not dominate. "8. School athletics are held to be For the Student of Education Tendencies Summarized 
even more specifically educational 
{Page xi) (Pages v-vii)
than athletics at the college level, and 
Professor Eyan summarizes the re­school authorities, public and private, Bulletin Number Twenty-four may sults of his study under ten headings, are working on programs of play ac-be considered as inaugurating a new as follows: ti\'ities for all that will include games form of procedure in its endeavor to and sports suited to the physical, so­discover, summarize, and publish oU 
"1 . There is general acceptance of 

cial, and emotional needs of children of the significant printed opinion con­athletics as education. Once opposed, at various ages and stages of devel­cerning a particular field of educa­then tolerated, athletics have come to opment." tion. It is certainly the first pub­be regarded as an important part of lished "integration of what has been the educational process at practically 
"Faculty Control" 

written concerning liihletics in Amer­all levels, but especially for youth. 
(Pages m-vii) ican colleges." It is probable that, "2. Existing opposition to athletics as Dr. Pritchett points out, "other 
is directed for the most part not at Dr. Pritchett notes that while "the athletics per se, but at what are re­governance of athletics by college and 
phases of American higher education might be benefited by a similar re­garded as evils resulting from an university faculties has become a 
exaggerated and commercialized ath­favorite formula for athletic right­view." letic system, especially in intercol­eousness and is widely regarded as a Bulletin Distributed Without Charge legiate football. panacea for the ills of college sport," Copies of this Bulletin, of Bulletin 
"3. Managed at first by under­nevertheless "the control of college Number Twenty-three, "American graduates, athletics are found under athletics by older persons has de­College Athletics," and of Bulletin various types of control—alumni, fac­
prived the undergraduates of most of Number Eighteen, "Games and Sports ulty, student, and combinations of the responsibilities involved and has in British Schools and Universities," these; it is now recognized that more transferred such educational advan­may be had without charge on appli­and more the educational institution tages mail in person the 
 as the process of accepting re­cation by or to —school or coUege—^must exert it­sponsibility might bring." office of the Foundation, 522 Fifth self to administer athletics educa­After referring to certain conclu­Avenue, New York City. tionally, with adequate student re­sions of Bulletin Number Twenty-
TH E CARNEGIE FOUNDATION FOR 

sponsibility but freedom from outside three, Dr. Pritchard remarks, "Some non-educational control. of the institutions that have most THE ADVANCEMENT OF TEACHING 
QilllllllllllllltiliiiiillMllillllilllllllllllllllliilllMII lllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllMltllllKIIIIIIII iiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiitiiii>iiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiitiiiiimiiinmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniinnii»miiiiiiiiitt(iuinip| 

rLDITORIAL 

B 
iiMiiiiiiiMiiiiMiiiaiii •IIIHIIII>lllf(lt*' llttllMIIIIIIIIIIIIII llllllltlllllllllllllllllllllMltlllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllltlllllllllllltlllltllll 
Living Endowment asks of you only a sum 


''Sonny Boy >> 
similar to that you give to your fraternal or­ganizations, to your golf club, to your business <•<• r^ ON'T tell the alumni what they oive 
1^ Notre Dame. Appeal to their emotions. 
They paid for their education. No matter what 
you tell them, they'll think the school is rich." 
Imagination didn't dictate the above. It came 
from conversation. 
Editorial opinion ventures to differ. 
Emotion,—action under sti'ess,—^i-egretted 
generosity,—these are the things the new Living Endowment plan seeks to escape. 
Notre Dame could build up a strong alumni sentiment with heart interest stones. Noti-e Dame could send out eloquent priests and lay­men, rich in the traditions of the University. They could talk to you over a banquet table. They could bring tears; they could bring the soft smiles of haunting memories; they could bring again the reckless abandon of your days at Noti-e Dame. 
They could very probably get your signature on the dotted line for a substantial sum. (It has been done to men as smai-t.) 
And when you got home, when you slept on it, when you talked it over in the justly famous cold light of morning, you would (if you were fast enough to beat your wife to it) place a contor­tionistic foot in the place commonly set aside for the purpose. You'd spend the rest of your life gi-udging payment of a pledge that was probably wholly inadequate. 
Living Endowment is based on a theoiy that appeals to the Directors and to the University as far more befitting Notre Dame men. 
The Univez"sity gives you the facts of its in­come and its expenditures. It shows you that you benefitted financially from gifts and sei-vices of pei-sons other than yourself and that it is only fair to ask you to contribute gifts or sei-vices to transmit these benefits to posterity. 
Living Endowment asks you for no great sum that will inconvenience you and your family. It asks you for no long term pledge that may sud­denly become an unbearable burden. It asks you only to contribute annually whatever sum you feel you can afford, to a cause that one of the closest associations of your life must show you to be worthy. 
organizations, to your luncheon clubs, to any of 
a dozen organizations that enroll almost all of 
you, and which must mean far less in your life 
than Notre Dame. 
Do you want an alma mater which says to you 
frankly, "Here's what we gave you. Here's what 
we need. Will you help?" 
Or do you want an alma mater that starts out, 
"Climb upon my knee. Sonny Boy"? 

''I And Notre Dame'' 
Ti rOT approved by Father Carrico, certainly, 
lyi the above does represent the mental rela­
tionship of many alumni to Notre Dame. With 
no personal criticism paiticulai'ly directed, a 
case in point is too striking to pass. 
An alumnus of the University is unusually suc­
cessful for so comparatively young a man. He is 
a hard worker and has grasped oppoi-tunities as 
they presented themselves. Coming to Notre 
Dame with probably a natural talent and the 
ability to work, his four years on the campus 
were filled with work in his field. As a result 
the name and prestige of Notre Dame carried his 
own name beyond the campus even before he 
received his degree. 
Upon gi'aduation, he found no difficulty in establishing a connection in his profession. Since then he has progi'essed at a most commendable pace. But in all his work Notre Dame experience and Notre Dame background are very evident. 
What is his reaction? "I don't feel that 
should contribute to Notre Dame. My work is 
my contiibution." 

It apparently never occurs to him that his work brings him excellent financial return; that the Univei-sity equipped him with the tools for his work. 
To put it bluntly, Notre Dame made him, and even now he is capitalizing on Notre Dame. Yet in his mind he holds the University under obli­gation. 
Notre Dame and Notre Dame men are handi­capped by this attitude. 
172 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
QUI 
Q., 
LIEB EESIGNS ANDERSON SIGNS 
The athletic situation at Notre Dame has been rather materially changed since the last issue of the ALUMNUS, largely- in the field of coaching. Notre Dame's influence has also changed several other coach­ing situations. 

Foremost among the changes is the resignation of Tom Lieb, '23, assistant football coach, and Rockne's field gen­eral in last season's campaign. Tom has signed a three-year contract with Loyola in Los Angeles, with terms that were very attractive. 
But, to silver line the cloud of 
Tom's resignation, Notre Dame has succeeded in bring­ing back Heartley "Hunk" Anderson, '22. "Hunk" former­ly held his present post, leaving it to accept the head coach's job at St. Louis U. Charles "Chile" Walsh, '28, former assistant to "Hunk" in that Uni­versity, has been an­nounced as the new head coach of St. Louis. 
Tommy Mills, who resigned as assistant coach at Notre Dame to assume the di­rectorship of ath­

"Hunk" Anderson 
letics at George­town, has announced John Colrick, '29, and Tim Moynihan, '29, as as­sistants in the football branch of that institution. Tommy, by the way, cracked up his automobile on the trip to Washington with his family, but fortunately all of them escaped with­out serious injury. 
Johnny Law, '29, has signed up as coach of Manhattan College, New York City. 
Notre Dame's strength on the Pacific Coast has increased with the advent of Jimmy Phelan and Tom Lieb in the 1930 Pacific roster, join­ing Slip Madigan, Clipper Smith, and the other N. D. coaches there. 
iitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiitiiiiniiiitiiiiiiot • •Klltlltlllllll 

ATHLETICS^ 

•tllltllllttllllllltlllillllllllltlllli MQ 
BASKETBALL 
Nine victories in fourteen starts is encouraging enough for a team in the making. Coach George Keogan, with a keen eye to the future, is forced to take the difficult role of experimenter in organizing a new quintet. The two All-Western guards, Captain "Oonie" Donovan and Ed Smith, are the ex­ceptions, and complicate matters even more. But the forward and center berths are giving the conscientious coach some sleepless days. 

An idea of progress, however, w^as gained from the 11-11 tie to which the N. D. team held the national champion Pitt five in the first half of the game on Feb. 8 at Notre Dame. Pitt has a strong, well organized quintet, led by the sparkling Hyatt, and opened up an attack in the second half that threw too much of a burden on the veteran Smith and Donovan and the defense cracked while the offense failed to find the basket until the last few minutes of the half. 
Since the last issue. Dr. Keogan has ben re-apopinted baseball coach, succeeding to his old job upon the 
Tom Lieb 
1929-30 Basketball Schedule 
Dec 2—^N. D. 40, Kalsmazoo Col. 16 Dec. 7—N. D. 49, Lake Forest 21 Dec 13—N. D. 59, Albion 11 Dec 19—Northwestern 30, N. D. 28 Dec 23—N. D. 32. Iowa 19 Dec 28—Ohio State 29, N. D. 22 Dec 31—N. D. 22, Northwestern 19 Jan. 7—^N. D. 30, Indiana 29 Jan. 11—N. D. 44, Marquette 29 Jan. IS—Pitt 33. N. D. 13 Jan. 20—X. D. 33, Mexico City Fal 23 Jan. 22—M. s. C. 2S, N. D. 21 Jan. 31—X. D. 2S, Wabash 10 Feb. 4—X. D. 20, Marquette IS Feb. S—Pitt 25, X. D. 10 
Feb. 14—^Butler Univ. at Indianapolis Feb. 18—Michigim State at Notre Dame Feb. 22—Wabash College at Crawfordsville Feb. 28—Butler University at Notre Dame Mar. 8—Univ. of Penn. at Philadelphia 
resignation of Tommy Mills. This has not added to the calm of the sea­son for the coach. 
But during this same interval, Mar­quette has twice been sacrificed on the altar of Notre Dame's rather pleasing development. And the Little Giants, coached by the veteran Pete Vaughan, failed to offer serious opposition and showed little of the dangerous skill that marked the Wabash teams of some years back. Michigan State proved too strong for Notre Dame on the Lansing floor, and the powerful Pitt team pounced twice upon the quintet, there and here. 
Several new stars are glittering with promise. Ray DeCook, former Mishawaka high school star, is show­ing up well at center. Bill Newbold, brother of Bob Newbold, former mem­ber of the spad, and Norbert Crowe, brother cf Clem, Ed and Fran Crowe, are pro\'ing strong offensive players at forward. Joe Gavin is also play­ing a fast game at the forward berth. Tom Conley, captain-elect of the foot­ball team, is a candidate for the guard berth. Busch, who had some experience last year, is helping considerably at the pivot position. Marshall Kizer, a younger brother of Noble Kizer, former All-Western guard, is out for a guard job, backed by experience last year. The outlook for continued progress in basketball is not entirely discouraging,—^unless you talk to Coach Keogan. 

Boagni and McCormick. Johnson, pole vaulter, who has been out of 
J 

Top row (left to right)—Bob O'Connell, Tom Conley, Tom Bums, Henry Johnson, Bill Newbold, Ray De Cook. Botton row (left to right)—Dan Heenan, 
Marsh Kizer, Clarence Donovan (Capt.), and Coach George lieogan. 
BASEBALL 

While on the subject of Coach Keo­gan, his new duties can be dismissed with the information that the call for candidates ivill be issued this month, and that, to quote him "his prospects are lamentable." 
This is also y good place to call to mind what you have probably all seen in the press, that Bob Walsh, '29, a member of last year's varsity squad, a son of Big Ed Walsh and brother of Young Ed Walsh, '28, of White Sox fame, has been signed on the New York Yankees pitching staff. 
TRACK 

Rather unheralded and unsung, Coach John P. Nicholson has turned out a track team whose early appear­ance promises some surprisingly good things for the track season. 
Captain Joe Abbott, who has been out of competition for a year through injuries and illness, is back in the record-breaking form of his pre-lay­off days and is leading a strong team. 
Butler University, Feb. 1, gave the first inkling of the strength of the 
N. D. squad, when Coach Nicholson's men swamped the BuUodgs 71-15 The outstanding event of the meet was the breaking of the world's record in the high jump by Bert Nel­son, Butler sophomore, National AjV. 
U. junior champion. Nelson jumped six feet, six and three-fourths inches, one fourth of an inch better than the mark set by Harold Osborne, Illinois, in 1925. 
Two gym records fell before N. D. men. Johnny O'Brien (he of the for­
Ed Smith, Joe Gavin, Norbert Crowe, 
ward pass receiving fame) stepped the 60-yard high hurdles in :07.6, one-fith of a second faster than the old record. Alex Wilson, former Canadian Olympic star, clipped four-fifths of a second from the best record in the 440-yard dash held by Jimmy Stack, '26. His time was :50.8. 
The loss of Jack Elder, who was graduated at the semester, is a blow to the team, although Coach Nichol­son has trained several sprinters to a point of unusual speed, notably school for a year, cleared 12 ft. for first place in the pole vault. Darling of N. D. took second in the high jump with a leap of 6 ft. 1% inches. 
One of the strong features of the team this year is the two-mile relay team. Captain Abbott, Brant little and Alex Wilson, the two Canadian stars, are three regular members. Fourth place on the quartet is a battle between Joe Quigley and Don McConnville. 
Jack Elder won the 60 and 70 yard events in the Rupert F. Mills (in honor of Rupe Mills, '15) spring series of the St. Joseph Catholic Club games in Newark, on Jan. 29. 
The Erskine Trophy 

Below is a cartoonist's tabulation of the vote that gave Notre Dame the Erskine trophy as national football champions. Under this plan the Studebaker Corporation presented Coach Rockne with a Champion car and a scroll in Miami Beach last month, and at the Pitt basketball game, the cup donated by A. R. Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corporation, was presented to Cap­tain-elect Tom Conley of the 1930 squad, by Mx\ Bingham of the A. A. 
U. Paul Castner, '23, now of the Studebaker Corporation and a former football star, introduced Mr. Bing­ham. 
AJIONG THE NE W JERSEY 
^jAAt. •4-, I930 

 CLUB'S ACTIVITIES (?) 
(From original drawing, sent to the ALUMNUS by Art Lea. Mond) 
By the 

THE DUES RACKET-Alumni Secretary 
Pardon me if I pour forth my heart 

in what is unpremeditated, if not art. 
February 1 the Alumni Office, fac­

ing a shortage this year of some four 
thousand dollars, sent out an urgent 
appeal for dues. The figures of the 
number of delinquent alumni, the 
sum needed, and other data were 
correct. This little outburst is not 
to gainsay those. 
But—some of the responses have 

been so fine (and none have been 
discouraging) that it calls for com­
ment 
This is a tough job. I suppose 

that sentiment is universal Tvith the 
working class, no matter what the 
job. But when your right hand is 
shaking hands with a fellow alumnus, 
and you're trying to show him how 
much Notre Dame means to him, and 
how much he should mean to Notre 
Dame,—^not in a financial way, though 
that is a factor, but in a much greater 
way—it's tougli to have to be picking 
his pocket •svith your left hand. 
I think I am familiar with the un­fortunate plight of the pastor whose eyes would like to look through the church roof to God, but get no far­ther than the cracks in the plaster. And it isn't a personal pleasure. 
That's why, when letters come in saying, "Jim, I'm sorry I've been so careless about these dues. Here's a check for fifty to cover them for a few years back." or "Here's a check, Jim, covering practically the entire balance in our treasury. We could use it, but we want your work to have the benefit of it " or "Here's five, Jim, I wish it was ten times that." or "N. D. means a great deal to me." —^that's why, again, the spirit is moved. 
I am the only alumnus working full time at it. It is natural that the pic­ture I get of Notre Dame and the University's relations to her alumni should be more intense and a more complete picture than that of those whose own businesses and profes— 
Mrs. Jolly Honored 

The cross and diploma "Pro Ec­clesia and Pontifice," the award of which was announced last month, was presented to Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, LL. D. '18, in Providence, R. I., on Sunday afternoon, Jan. 5. This is an honor conferred by the Pope fc/ distinguished merit in the service of ' the Church. Mrs. Jolly was the recip­
sions demand their application and 
their vision. I just want you to know 
this, that the Alumni Ofiice is just 
beginning to be of sen'ice. One man 
had the honesty to say that he could 
understand the attitude that you don't 
get five dollars worth of sei-vice a 
year. To place our situation on that 
basis, waiving a number of tilings, 
you really haven't been getting the 
service to which you are entitled if 
you have been supporting the Asso­
ciation. 
But—to give you that sen-ice takes 

an organized Office, complete records, 
a good mailing list, an effective mag­
azine, and the efficient organization 
of the Classes and the Clubs. 
Immediately, you see! We are 

just getting under the surface. The 
work of organizing the Office has 
been long and expensive. The rec­
ords have been difficult. The maga­
zine has had to develop slowly. The 
mailing list has its handicaps still. 
The Classes and Clubs demand a long 
period of development. 
Tlie slow development has been 

experienced by all other alumni asso­
ciations. It is not peculiar to Notre 
Dame. Many of our contemporary 
organizations are not as advanced. I 
hope that we may go our successful 
to the full realization of our possi­
bilitise, regardless of the fortunes of 
our neighbors. We are Notre Dame 
men. 
This is explanation, not alibi. It 
will be a long time still before the 
Alumni Association can mean as 
much to you as it should. When it 
does, five dollars will not be its 
measure. 
All I hope now is that those of you who have been loyal will ultimately enjoy the fruits of your loyalty, and that those of you whose names are not yet entered in the "good book" will see the light so that we may speed the day of fulfillment. 
James E. Armstrong 
Alumni Secretary 

ient because of her work in many fields and especially in behalf of the Nuns of the Battlefield, markers for their graves and a monument to their memorj' in Washington. The R t Rev. Bishop Hickey presided. Rev. Law­rence Broughall, C.S.C, representing the University of Notre Dame, from which Mrs. Jolly received the only 
LL. D. awarded to a woman, was one of the speakers. 
A^. D. Men on Magazine 

Le Bavard (The Tattler), a month­ly Fort Wayne magazine of news and features, appealing to "quality circu­lation" and advertising, is largely in­fluenced by Harry Flannery and Cliff Ward, two N. D. men journalists in Fort Wayne. The magazine uses 
HAKRY FLANNERY, '23 

material similar to that in the Neia 
Yorker, etc., and Flan has opened its 
pages to N. D. writers or illustrators, 
with the usual rates for accepted 
work. 
The second issue showed Notre 
Dame influence. Poems by Frank 
Kolars and Vince Engels; a write-up 
of J. P. McEvoy by Flannery (former 
secretarj' to McEvoy); and C. M. 
Niezer, prominent Fort Wayne alum­
nus, in the Hall of Fame, not to men­
tion an editorial on college education, 
identified the hand behind the pen. 
ScHhhlers Active 

The Scribblers, campus literary arbiters, are in the active midst of a poetry and a short story contest, the dual stimulus of which is an annual feature of this estimable organization. 
Law Building Progresses 
Contractors have used what little warm weather has been available to push the work of excavating for the new University Law School building. An unusually severe winter has ham­pered progress, but dynamite and steam shovels have made considerable headway in spite of adverse condi­tions. Work on the stadium, which was fairly well advanced before cold weather fastened its grip, is prac­tically at a standstill until Spring. 
Febnianj, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Army Game to be Played in Chicago Nov, 29 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C. S. C, Makes Arrangements inNew York. 
According to neivspapej- dispatches of February 10 the Army-Notre Dame football game will be played in Soldiers Field, Chicago, Nov. 29, 1930. 
The stoiy states that the change was made at the request of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, to avoid the difficulties involved in the original schedule, which called for a game in New York on the 29th and a game with Southern California in Los An­geles on the following Saturday. The 1931 and 1932 games will be played in New York, the dispatch adds. 
Eumors of disagreements between Army officials and New York City after last year's game had no bear­ing upon the charge, the newspapers state, and iVrmy officials only con­sented to the change because of a de­sire to respect Father O'Donnell's wishes. 
The game is being played in Chi­cago and not in the Notre Dame stadium, the papers attribute to Father O'Donnell, because West Point belongs to the nation, and when the cadets play the largest number should have the opportunity to see the game. 
With the five games on the home schedule and this announced transfer of what is undoubtedly the football classic of America to Chicago. Mid-West football fans ought to enjoy a record season this Fall. 
Officials of Soldiers Field, by the way, announced that no arrangements had been made for that stadium, but that it would be available if desired. 

Elder starts his famous SB-yard run for touchdown against Army, 1929. 
Wile in Europe 
Frederic William Wile, '92, famous Washington journalist and radio speaker, is attending the disarma­ment conference in Europe. Mr. Wile was for years the Berlin representa­tive of Lord NorthcliiTe, and was reported to have had several narrow escapes in Berlin after the United States entered the World War. 
Law Alumni Directory 
The College of Law has issued a directory of the legal alumni insofar as responses to a series of question­naires sent out by Dean Thomas Konop permit. The Dean was some­what disappointed with the failure of many of the graduates of the College to return the information requested, but publication of the Directory was completed in the hope that another issue later will receive more coopera­tion. The plan offers many possibili­ties to the graduates in a business way. 
A. A. C. Convention 
The annual convention of the American Alumni Council has been announced for May 1, 2 and 3, in Amherst, Mass., with several of the suiTounding colleges joining -Am­herst as hosts. 
James E. Armstrong, vice-president of the Council, is planning on attend­ing both the National Catholic Alum­ni Federation Convention in Washing­ton the preceding week-end, and the 
A.A.C. meeting in Amherst, as repre­sentative of the Notre Dame Associa­tion. The few days between will per­mit the local Secretaiy to visit sev­eral of the Eastern Clubs with developments along the lines of our own Association. 
Both the Council and the Federa­tion have been generous in honoring Notre Dame and a large part of the work being done or planned by Notre Dame is in line with similar projects undertaken especially by the members of the American Alumni Council. A great deal of useless time and effort has been spared through Notre Dame's contacts with some of the older associations in this organization 
The American Alumni Council, which includes the Canadian univer­sities, was founded in 1913, and its members include all of the leading colleges and universities of the coun­try. John D. McKee, alumni secre­tary of the College of Wooster, Woos­ter, Ohio, is president of the Council this year. 




NEWER /iC 
LYONS HALL 
STADIUM HOWARD HALL 

lA/^'^ 

'^uss&^mmmmmam 
re-,­

iiiiiiiiiiii'iiimniliinfSl'illui^r^­
ST. EDWARD'S I 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


NOTRE DAME 
;MORRISSEY HALL DINING HALL SCIENCE HALL (Add.) 
m^—^^^^m 
RED HEART CHURCH 
''S)l ^L (Remodeled) 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS February, 19S0 
Suggested Reading 
(Continued from Page 167) 

Surgery," which is a presentation of the anatomy of the human body with an outline of operative surgery, in non-technical language designed sole­ly for the use of la^\•yers in court. The introductions of the book were written by Prof. John H. Wigmore, author of "Wigmore on Evidence," 
VINCENT FAGAN 

and W. A. Newman Borland, A. M., 
M. D., F. .A.. C. S., author of "Dor­land's American Illustrated Medical Dictionary." The work is published by Callaghan & Co., law book publishers. The first edition of the book before coming off the press had such a de­mand that they promptly started on an issue of a second edition. Dr. Maloy was a monogram member of the track team while at Notre Dame. He was probably the leading stand­ing broad jumper of his day, and on more than one occasion equalled the world's record in that event. 
Living Endoivment 
(Continued from Page ICC) 

Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, Pittsburgh, adds an interesting comment: 
Your new plan of the Association is a contributing factor in the develop­ment of the greater Notre Dame. This plan is interesting to me because five years ago I advocated this same plan to Reverend E. Vincent Mooney while he was visiting in Pittsburgh. January was the first I had heard of such a plan being considered by you. I shall make an effort to cooperate with you because I think this plan is practicable, easily paid, and can be of enormous value to the University, if the Alumni cooperate with you. 
Catholic Alumni 
Edward S. Dore, New York City, 

president of the National Catholic 
iilumni Federation, has announced 
Washington, D. C, April 25, 26 
and 27, as the time and place of the 
fourth convention of the Federation. 
The Maj'flower Hotel ^vill be the 
headquarters for the convention. 
In view of the active Notre Dame 

Club in Washington, and the partici­
pation of Notre Dame men in the 
affairs of the Federation, it is par­
ticularly interesting. The organiza­
tion of Catholic alumni also has a 
growing significance which must not 
be lost to the graduates of Catholic 
schools. The Federation is open to 
indi\'idual membership as well as as­
sociation or institution membership. 
The Notre Dame Oub of the City of 
New York holds a membership in its 
own name. 
John T. Balfe, '20, is secretary of 

the Federation. Francis J. Dufficy, 
'24, is assistant secretary. Hugh A. 
O'Donnell, '04, is a member of the 
Board of Director. 
Notre Dame will very probably be 

represented on the Convention pro­
gram. James E. Armstrong, Alumni 
Secretary, has been invited to give a 
paper on the Catholic implications of 
the adult education movement among 
$15,000,000 Cuban Capitol Designed by N. D. ArcMtect 
In keeping with the high tribute paid to the department of architec­ture by Dr. Ralph Adams Cram (cf. Suggested Reading) is the news that the new capitol building in Havana, Cuba, modeled after the Capitol in Washington, and costing fifteen million dollars, was designed by Eugenio RajTieri, B.S.A.E. '04, 7th Calle, 70 Vedado, Havana. 
The beautiful structure has just been completed after five years work on it. 
Campus Clubs Active 

Times are changing. Standardiza­tion has crept into those colorful organizations known as "campus clubs." The Student Activities Coun­cil has drawn up and promulgated a standard form for all Clubs, to be complied with in letter and spirit for existence. Different a bit from that memorable time when the Toledo Club awarded itself the cup as the most popular Club on the campus. 

Convention in April 
alumni. Invitations have been ex­tended to other N. D. men 
The ALUMNUS hopes that all alumni, those in the East particularly, will plan to attend the sessions of the Convention. New York has had two conventions. Philadelphia entertained the other. It is hoped that a develop­ment in the Federation's western membership will permit bringing it west at an early date. 
-Alfred C. Ryan, '20, former Alumni Secretarj', attended the first meeting of the Federation and Notre Dame has been prominently represented by Mr. O'Donnell and Mr. Balfe ever since that time, with many other Notre Dame men joining its activi­ties during the interval. Mr. O'Don­nell had charge of the entertainment at the closing banquet in New York in the Fall of 1928. 
This early interest of Notre Dame has been appreciated by the organ­izers of the Federation and many courtesies extended in return. The movement has a vital significance and has attracted the attention of leading Catholic laymen throughout the coun­try. Notre Dame alumni should not permit their early interest to wane or withdraw their support from the organization. 
Bishop Crowley Elevated 

Rt. Eev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C, D.D., A.B. '02, has become Bishop of Dacca, Bengal, India, through the resignation from that position of Rt Eev. Joseph Legrand in December. Bishop Crowley was made Coadjutor Bishop ^vith the right of succession two years ago. The Bengalese for January carries the following tribute to the new head of the diocese: 
"A missioner of ripe experience, Bishop Crowley is known and loved among his fellow missioners for his unfailing readiness to share the severest hardships with the youngest of his priests; he is ever ready to help them in their needs; his spirit of initiative, keen mental powers, tire­less energy, augur well for the future of the diocese." 
Second Number "Scnp" 

The second edition of Scrip, campus literary publication, was scheduled for distribution on Feb. 10. The ven­ture is meeting ivith both support and enthusiasm among the students and faculty. 
Qu •iliitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiitiiiitiiiiinMnmiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiitinnininiimiiitniiitiiiiiniiiMiiiiiiimiimiiitiiiipl 
ALUMNI C V^LUBS j
IIIKIIIKItllllltllllllllllMlllllaillllill 

B" >iii(iiiiiiiiitiiiiii)iiiiiiMiiiMi>iiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiii Hiiiiiiimmiiiininnpl 
CHICAGO 

The Annual Dinner of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago will be held Tuesday evening, February 25, in the lounge room of the Midland Club, 168 
W. Adams St., at which the election of officers will also take place. 
The guests of honor and speakers had not been announced when the ALUMNUS went to press. Irv Cor­coran, '28, and Tony Kopecky, '29, will provide real Notre Dame enter­tainment by playing and singing the favorite school and campus songs. John W. Costello, '12, president of the club, will act as toastmaster. 
The committee in charge of ar­rangements is composed of Danny Hilgartner, '17, chairman; John 6. Byrne, '23, vice-chairman; and Thom­as C. Noonan, '24; Leo B. Fettig, '28, and Fred L. Collins, '29. 
Avery Brundage, former national champion all-around athlete, Olympic star, and now president of the Ama­teur -Athletic Union, spoke at the weekly Club luncheon in the Ivory Room at Mandel Bros, on Friday, Jan. 17. 
Mr. Brundage explained something of the inner workings of America's amateur athletic system, including a description of the conduct of the Olympic games. 
DENVER 
A belated but welcome report of Holiday activities in Denver says: This Chi-istmas seems to have been a Notre Dame Christmas in Denver— something like the annual meeting at Cheyenne during Frontier Day every summer—only the Wyoming boys must have been snowed in this year. This holiday season saw the passing of two of the old guard—Bob Dick and Harry McGuire were mai-ried. New Year's saw the following at the Lakewood Country Club: Dr. Henri Shearer, '96; Jack Walsh, '10; Bob Fox, '10; Jim Logan, '16; Ray Hum­phreys, '16; 0. H. Schwalbe, '16; Lyle Morency, '27; Al Dowds, '26; Jim Maher, '26; Louis Hough, '27; Frank Conway, '27; Ed Delehanty, '27; Forest Conley, '27; Chuck Has­ekll, '29; Marty Shearer, '25; Bill Dick, '29. Don Alexander and the White boys, Frank and Larry, had come up from Colorado Springs. The two latter have deserted the bankrupt city of Chicago, and with the rest of us are hoping that the 1931 schedule comes out with "Nebraska at Lincoln" so some of these "yaps" out here will learn something about football. (Dave Hickey, '27.) 

FOX RIVER V.A.LLEY 

The Fox River Valley alumni met on the 26th of December, 1929, and had as their guests the students who were home from Notre Dame. The meeting was well attended and plans for Universal Notre Dame Night were discussed. 
During the eai-ly part of December Father William Bolger, C.S.C, who is now at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, spoke in Green Bay, and was enter­tained by the local Club. 
ROCHESTER 

The Editorial, Secretarial and Asso­ciational blessings are being heaped upon the patriotic heads of the Rochester alumni. Following the an­nual meeting on Feb. 5, the Club vot­ed to send the entire amount of money in its treasury to the Association! 
This unprecedented and exemplary action is, however, in keeping with the past loyalty and support of the Rochester Club, and with the activi­ties of the smaller Clubs, who have set a fast pace for the stronger groups to follow. 
The Brooklea Country Club—an ex­clusive Club, beautifully situated— was the setting of the annual meet­ing, through the influence and cour­tesy of Joe "Stubby" Flynn, '16. 
New officers are: president, Joseph Tierney; vice-president, Norbert Bag­lin; secretary, Clinton Lintz; treas­urer, Ray Downs. The Club also in­augurated the election of two of the older members of the Club, plus the outgoing president, as the advisory Board of Governors. These three in­dividuals will act with the four offi­cers on all matters which come be­fore the Club. 
The Christmas party was a huge success. There were 123 couples present at the Sagamore Roof. Ray Fagan's Orpheum Band supplied the music. The place was decorated in gold and blue and profusely orna­mented with Notre Dame pennants and national championship banners. 

"I dare say that had you been at the party Wednesday night (Feb. 5) it would have been a revelation to you to see the spirit which was dis­played. I never had the pleasure be­fore of seeing so much genuine feel­ing of love for Notre Dame brought out in a group of alumni as it was that night." 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS Joe Menger, '25, president of the Club, is convalescing from a severe attack of blood-poisoning that has kept him confined for several months. George Burkitt, Jr., president of the 
N. D. Club of Houston, was a dinner guest in San iVntonio recently. 
-Archbishop Hurth, C.S.C, an oli friend of the Menger family, breezed in, Joe writes, on New Years' Day and enjoyed listening to the Pitts­burgh- Southern Cal. game. 
Bert V. Dunne, '26, of the San Francisco office of the Campbell-Ewald Co., was in San Antonio lately, arranging for the publicity of the Chevrolet convention of 400 dealers fi'om 80 counties held here recently. 
Ed Walsh of the Chicago White Sox will be here about Feb. 15. The N. 
Y. Giants will be here about the same time. I understand a number of ex-
N. D. sports writers will accompany them. 
Fred Link of Nonvalk, Ohio, is ex­pected in Texas according to unofficial reports. Mark Hess, Bill Dielman, Jr., Mike Needham, Jr., Harold Ty­nan and Kenvin Williams are all 0. 
K. Tom Woulfe, formerly of Chicago and more recently of San Antonio, has gone to California. 
TRI-CITIES 

Moline, Rock Island and Davenport have not been without their activities, albeit these columns missed them last month. -As per: 
The Tri-City Notre Dame Club had their annual dinner during the holi­days at the Davenport Outing Club on the evening of Dec. 30. The follow­ing were elected to office for 1930: Charles SoUo, '25, Moline, 111.; Rich­ard Swift, '20, Davenport; Henry Mc-CuUough, '23, Davenport; and Leo Herbert, '27, Rock Island. 
We had around thirty members present and the groceries were neatly dispatched by all present. A party will be held at Easter time which will probably take the form of a dinner Dame and Purdue. During the course sented with a large green floral harp dance. We are going to become more of the evening and immediately pre­—^the welcome of the Notre Dame active—^if necessary, we will borrow ceding the act of Olsen and Johnson, Club—the presentation speech being some bombs from Chicago. Starrett conducted a parade of fife made by the silver-tongued Lenihan. 
All Notre Dame alumni, former and 

and drum players wearing the Blue Various other doings there were fol­present students, are urged to look us 
and Gold of Notre Dame. Just before lowing the banquet, and you might be up when going through Davenport. Phelan was introduced he was pre­able to secure an accurate description 
TWIN CITIES Two hundred couples attended the 

1930 DIX REUNIONS—MAY 30, 31 and JUNE 1, 1930 
annual Ball of the Twin Cities Club, held at the Kadisson Hotel, Minneapo­CLASS SECRETABIES NOTE! CLASS MEMBERS NOTE! lis, on the evening of Monday, MAKE YOI « PLANS ACCOEDINGLY! 
Dec. 23. 

The line of years at the top margin dcaiffnatcs the years in which reunions are held. The column WESTERN WASHINGTON of figures dotvn the left margin designates the class year or year of graduation. 
The following letter is self-explan­

1930 19311932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 atory: 1939 1939 
Gentlemen: 1938 1938 1937 1937 
Ha^^ng recently returned from the 

1936 1936 
Orient, and seeing a copy of your (or 

1935 1935 our) publication for the first time in 1934 1934 
many months, I thought it might be 1933 1933 
1932 1932 1932 
of interest to those in the provinces 

1931 1931 1931 
to hear some of the doings of the 1930 1930 1930 
Notre Dame Club of Western Wash­1929 1929 1929 1929 
ington. Incidentally, I wish you 1928 1928 1928 1928 
1927 

1927 1927 1927 
would remove the names of. Ed Coch­
1926 

1926 1926 1926 1926 
rane and Bill Cleaver from the back 
1925 

1925 1925 1925 1925 
cover, and substitute the following: 1924 1924 1924 1924 President, Frank M. Kirkland, 607 1923 1923 1923 1923 
1922 

1922 1922 1922 
Securities Bldg. 1921 
1921 1921 1921 
Secretary, Jerry Hagan, Olympic 1920 
1920 1920 1920 Hotel. 1919 1919 1919 
1919 1919 We will pass over with brief men­1918 1918 1918 1918 1918 1918 
1917 

1917 1917 1917 1917 1917 
tion the many minor social gather­
1916 

1916 1916 1916 1916 
ings of the club during the summer 1915 
1915 1915 1915 
months—including a boating party on 1914 1914 1914 1914 1914 
1913 

Lake Washington, climbing Mount 1912 1913 1913 1913 1913 Rainier and an automobile journey to 1911 1912 
1912 1912 1912 1911 1911 
Vancouver B. C. for the purpose of 1910 1911 
1910 1910 1910 1910 
studying the Canadian scenery. 1909 1909 1909 1909 1909 
1908 

1908 1908 1908 1908 
Our biggest public event was the 1907 
1907 1907 1907 1907 
reception given early this month for 1906 
1906 1906 1906 1906 Jimmy Phelan, new football coach at 1905 1905 1905 1905 1905 
1904 the University of Washington. On 1903 
1904 1904 1904 1903 1903 1903: 
arriving by plane in Seattle, Phelan 1902 
1902 1902 1902 
was met by practically the entire stu­1901 1901 1901 1901 
1900 1899 1900 

dent body of the University. The 1900 1900 1900 Notre Dame delegation of fifty was 1898 1899 1899 
1899 1899 

1897 1898 1898 1898 1898 1896 1897 1897 1897 
headed by a limousine carrying Frank 
Kirkland, our president; Leo Hart­

1895 1896 1896 1896 
nett, representing the Governor of 1894 1895 1895 1895 
Washington; and Emmett Lenihan, 1893 1894 1894 1894 1894 1892 1893 1893 1893 1893 
representing the mayor of Seattle and 

1891 1892 1892 1892 1892 
probably the Republican party. Also 

1890 1891 1891 1891 among those present was one E. Mor­1889 1890 1890 1890 1890 
ris Starrett, formerly a student at 1888 1889 1889 1889 1889 1887 1888 1888 1888 1888 
Notre Dame. The banquet at the 

1886 1887 1887 1887 1887 
Olympic in the evening was attended 

1885 1886 1886 1886 1886 by the largest gathering ever to at­1884 1885 1885 1885 1885 tend a banquet in this city—even ex­1883 1884 1884 1884 ceeding in number and enthusiasm 
1882 1883 1883 1883 1881 1881 1882 1882 
1882 1882 
the group which greeted Col. Lind­

1880 1881 1881 
1881 1881 1881 

bergh on his arrival here a few years 1880 1880 
1880 1880 ago. Directly in front of the speak­1879 1879 1879 1879 1879 1878 
ers' table were the tables of Notre 187811878 1R78 
of these activities from Frank Kirk­land. 
Since joining the United Hotels Co. here I have had oportunity of meet­ing several former Notre Dame men who penetrate this far into the Charmed Land. Among those whom I remeber on the spur of the moment are Roger Nolan, travelling out of Minneapolis; and Leo C. Klein, who was at N. D. about 1917, or perhaps a few years before that. 
I suppose I will be very much in bad if I dose ^vithout mention of Ned Cochrane's young son Mickey, who arrived on January 4. Ned is now able to be around and greet his many friends. Personally I did my bit about a year ago with a bigger and better son than Cochrane's. There has been no repoi-t from Starrett as yet. G. J. HAGAN. 
Kev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, 

was the recipient of a telegram of 
greeting from the Club on the night 
of their participation in the Phelan 
welcome. The message was signed by 
George Kuppler, '00; Morrie Starrett, 
'21; Emmett Lenihan, '15; Jerry 
Hagan, '23; F. M. Kirkland, '17; John 
J. Larsen, '18; Albin Holmes; Dick Frute, '15; Leo Hartnett; S. A. Walk­er. '95; Leo Mero; John L O'Phelan, '04, and Grover Noonan, '06. 
H" 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

The annual business meeting of the St. Joseph Valley Club was held in the Turkish Room of the Oliver Hotel, Wednesday, Jan. 29. 
Dudley Shively, '92, was elected president of the Club; Bernard VoU, '17, vice-president; J. H. B. McCar­thy, El. '29, secretary; and E. A. Mc-Erlain, '91, treasurer. . Eev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, was elected Chaplain. Frank E. Hering, '98, was elected honorary president. 
An executive board, headed by Michael Donohue, 'S3, with Robert McAuliffe, 'IS, Max Adler, '92, Ed­ward Meehan, '20 and John Schindler, '09, as members, was elected. Officers of the Club are members of this com­mittee ex officio. 
The Club is planning big things with the bringing of football games to the new stadium. Norman Hart­zer, '29, was appointed to conduct a membership campaign among the St. Joe Valley alumni. 
A number of tentative plans were discussed, which will be announced in more detail later. 
Washington's Birthday 
Annual presentation of the flag by 
II 
lllllllllllllllll 

the Senior Class to the University 
will take place in Washington Hall 
on Feb. 22. The traditional cere­
mony, outstanding among the uni­
versities of America as a gesture of 
patriotism, and symbolic of the ex­
cellent training for citizenship that 
Notre Dame gives her graduates, vrill 
be followed. 
Cap and gown procession from the Main Building to Washington Hall will start at 8:30. Raymond Rear-don, '30, president of the Class, will present the flag on behalf of the Class. Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, '18, vice-president of the University, will accept it in the absence of Father Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, president of the University. 
Louis Hasley, '30, will deliver the Washington's Birthday Ode, usually one of the finest poetic works of the scholastic year. Mr. Hasley's pub­lication history on the campus points to a maintenance of this literary tradition. Walter Stanton, '30, will give excerpts from Washington's Farewell Address. 
The committee in charge consists of Patrick McLaughlin, chairman; Edward McLennan, William Cleary, James Costello, Walter Langford and Edward Yorke. 
 iiiiitllllltlitlllllUtlDtniiltlHIiMlllttKOUIIillllllMMIMtlllllililiQ 
THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND. OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Designers of the New Notre Dame Stadium 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-four Stadiums and Athletic Fields Fourteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
iiiimtii <iiMiuiitiuiiiiiiMii iitQ 
iitiiiitiiiiitiiiiiiiititiiitiii 
|HHiiiimiiiiiHiiiiiiliiimimmiMiiitiiiiiiiiiMimiinnim"mm"i 

••••lllllllllllilllllilllMllllillt iiiDiiiiiiiiiiitiiitiiiiiniiiitiiiiii M Q 
H ' 

^THE ALUMNI 
had been editor of the Catholic Her­GAN, Ph.B. '09, formerly of Crafton, Births ald, and since his death the paper has Pa., died Jan. 3. suspended publication. He was in 
ME. and MRS. GERALD C. BRU­BAKER, '22, are parents of a son, 
•who has enjoyed the Brubaker house­hold for three months minus benefit of the ALUJINUS. The father is now including nurseries in the various buildings he designs for the office of VINCE FAGAN, '20, and the classes in architecture at the University. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. C. COCHRANE, '22, Seattle, Wash., are parents of a son, "lEckey," born Jan. 4. Ned was president of the Western Washington Alumni Club last year. 

Patricia Regan is the proud daugh­ter of DAN J. REGAN, '23, since Dec. 7. Also Mrs. Regan's child. 
Barbara Therese McGoorty was late in mailing the announcement of her connection with MR. and MRS. JOHN P. McGOORTY, JR., '24, on Nov. 28. But perhaps Barbara has not yet discovered, the difference be­tween birth announcements and some of the other overdue forms that seem to trouble her native city of Chicago. 
The most prompt baby-of-the-month is Jean Elizabeth McDade, the daugh­ter of MR. and MRS. WILSON E. McDADE, '27, who was bom Jan. 11 at Buffalo. Mac is with a firm of auditors in that city. 
Deaths 

ROBERT H. JOHNSON, a student at Notre Dame before the Civil War, died in Wausau, Wis., January 20, aged 83. Mr. Johnson ran away from Notre Dame to enlist in the Union Army when he was 16. For sixty years he had been identified with newspaper work in Wausau. He had a long and honrable record of service during the Civil War and was active in the Memorial Day services last Spring. 
TH01LA.S A. CONNELLY, a for­mer student, who received an honor­ary. A. M. from Notre Dame in '95, died Dec 17 in Sacramento, Calif., aged 71. Mr. Connelly for 23 years newspaper work in Cleveland, Balti­more and Washington before estab­lishing the Herald in 1908. 
PATRICK FITZPATRICK, 82, a student at Notre Dame in '71, died January 29 in Toledo, 0. A letter from the Club there says: He was an ardent supporter of the school and up to the very last could be counted upon to put his shoulder to the wheel whenever the local Club attempted to do anything for Notre Dame. He was a kindly old gentleman and loved by all who came in contact with him. The local Notre Dame Club remem­bered Mr. Fitzpatrick with a floral offering and a great many of the members attended his funeral. 
Mr. Fitzpatrick had lived in Toledo for 80 years, though born in Ireland. For the past 25 years he had been employed in the city health depart­ment. 
The ALUMNUS regrets to an­nounce the death of Mrs. Jessica Cranmer McPhee, wife of WILLIAM 
P. McPHEE, '90, former president of the Association. Mrs. McPhee died Wednesday, Jan. 22, in Santa Bar­bara, Calif., where she had spent re­cent months in an effort to regain her health. Mrs. McPhee was active in Denver society, in work for the Chil­dren's Hospital there and in the Denver Garden Club. 
Mrs. McPhee is survived by Mr. McPhee, a son John, and a daughter Willamain, who has been attending school in Menlo Park, Calif. Her mother also survives, along with three sisters and two brothers. 
DR. WILLIAM P. GRADY, '99, a member of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, died there on Jan. 4. After taking his Bachelor's degree at Notre Dame, Dr. Grady finished his course at Rush Medical College. He had practiced medicine on the South Side for twenty-five years. Dr. Grady was a monogram member of the track team, 1898-99. 
The ALUMNUS has received a note to the effect that LEO J. HO­
A returned ALUJINUS is the basis the Office has for reporting the death of MALACHY DANIEL CLARK, 
LL.B. '10, Brainerd, Minn. 

OSWALD GENIESSE, B.C.S. '26, died at his home in Green Bay, Wis., on Jan. 20, aged twenty-seven. He was bom in Green Bay and educated at St. John's school and graduated at East Side High School in 1921. He was married several years ago and besides his wife he leaves a son, aged seven months, his parents, and a brother, LEVI, '24, Os had suffered with an ailment of the stomach and was operated on sevei'al weeks before his death. It appeared that he was on the road to recovery, but complica­tions set in. 
The funeral was held at St. John's Church and was largely attended. He was a member of the Green Bay K. of C, having transferred from the N. 
D. Council. He was an active mem­ber of the Notre Dame Club of the Fox River Valley. Os had gone to Milwaukee to work shortly before be­ing taken ill, when he returned to Green Bay. 
The ALUMNUS regrets to an­nounce the death of FRANCIS D. PENDER, B.C.S., '27. Frank died several months ago, but definite in­formation has just reached the Alum­ni Office. He had been employed in Chicago preceding his death. 
A letter from WILLIAM J. DONE­LAN, JR., '29 brings the regrettable news of the death of Bill's father on Nov. 26. Bill had been living in Holly­wood, Calif., before his father's death, but is back in Ottumw^a, Iowa, his home. 
I Marriages 
FRANK M. SABINE, '24, was married to Miss Louise Creager at Rocky Fordj Colo., on Sept. 24, comes the belated but welcome news, sent in by ED PEINSTER, who, with MARTY SHEARER and BOB DICK, added a distinctly Notre Dame atmos­phere of the occasion. Frank has been a chemist in the American Beet Sugar factory at Eocky Ford and was promoted to be head chemist in -the same company's plant at Grand Island, Nebr., the home address there 
•being
 206 Greystone Apts. 

A letter from CLYDYE BEOUS­SAED, '13, mentions among other 

•things,
 the marriage of JOE BEOUS­

SAED, '26, a brother of Clyde, last July. Joe married Miss Edna Maher, also of Beaumont, Texas, in fact from 

•St.
 Anthony's parish, which is Joe's Tiarish. Msgr. Kelly of Beaumont officiated. 


Mr. and Mrs. Floyd C. Vaughan an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­"ter, Marjorie Morrow, to Mr. MARC 
A. FIEHEEE, '27, on Thursday, the ninth of January, Baker, Oregon. At home after Feb. 1, Hamilton, Ohio, Which, in brief, tells the story of the happy culmination of another Notre Dame-St. Mary's romance. Mai'c is practicing law in Hamilton, and is secretary of the N. D. Club there. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Cann have an­nounced the marriage of their daugh­ter Mildred to Mr. ALFEED A. SGHNUEB, '28, on the sixth day of February at St. Mary's Church, Sandusky, Ohio. 
^ {. 
I Engagements | 
« 4 
The engagement of Miss Florence Eiley of Cleveland to Mr. EICHAED WEPPNEE, '28, of Notre Dame, was announced recently. Dick is teach­ing and taking advance work at the University. 
« * 
I Personals | 
« * Before 1880 
Mark M. Foote, 501 City HaU, 
Chicago Illinois. 

A letter was received recently from HENEY NEWMAEK, '78. Mr. Newmark writes that his eyesight, which was seriously affected in 1928, when he attended Commencement and the 50-year Eeunion of his class, has improved. He expected to attend Commencement again this June, but his brother and sisters in Germany have persuaded him to return to the old country. He leaves for Germany on March 15, and will not be back until July 1. He has promised to observe Universal Notre Dame Night in Nuremburg: " There is one advan­tage I will have across the big pond this year, I can toast you all with real wine or beer, and ^vill be think­ing of you often when I drink the good old Munchener stuff." 
1880-1885 

Prof. Robt. M. Anderson, Stevens Inst, 
of Tech, Hoboken, N. J. 

Prof. ANDEESON writes very in­terestingly: "We have been waiting to see what SAM TERRY would have in store for you. It was a wonderful list, but even at that he missed some of the faithful old timers, such as FATHEE BOEEES, of '82. Most of the men in those days did not come to Notre Dame for the sake of a de­gree, but to acquire as much knowl­edge as their time and cash would permit; and the majority of Terry's list are of that type. A notable ex­ample was the senior JOSEPH BYENE, of Newark, N. J. Those who went for degrees generally col­lected quite an assortment, notably ALBEET ZAHM. We are indeed delighted with the news in the last ALUMNUS of Albert Zahm. 
"We received a Christmas greet­ing from DE. WM. H. AENOLD, 
A.B. 'S3, sent from Weisbaden, Christmas Eve, in which he sent greetings for the other 'boys.' He then expected to return to the U. S. in a short time. Dr. Arnold has spent a considerable portion of his time in Europe. Before we forget, we of Billie Arnold's 'boys' wish to thank you for the two-page illustration of "The Notre Dame of Yesterday" (January ALUMNUS). The Notre Dame of our first acquaintance was that of the lower left hand comer and in which I was of both the left and right hand side. 
"I have seen somewhere a notice of the formation in the University of a student branch of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, which pleased me, as I had a tip of a finger in the pie. 
1886 

Michael 0. Bums, 338 S. Second St., 
Hamilton, Ohio. 

The Class Secretary is President of the recently formed Notre Dame Club of Hamilton, 0., in case you overlooked it in the Club Directory. (Ed.) 
1887 

Hon. Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, 
Michigan. 

The Class Secretary has a state­ment about the Living Endowment in this issue under that heading. Mr. 
Cartier is, as usual, wintering at fort Myers, Fla., P. O. Box 1915. 
1888 John L. Heineman, Canneisville, Ind. 
VERY EEV. JAMES A. BURNS, C.S.C., Provincial of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross for the United States, is kept "busy with the various and scattered affairs of the Congrega­tion, having very little time on the Notre Dame campus. 
1889 

The rush for volunteers for the position of Class Secretary having failed to materialize, the Editor once more asks that some member of the Class whose time permits a bit of correspondence each month or two, will volunteer to conduct a contact between members of the Class that can be done more easily by one familiar than by the Alumni office. 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave, 
Minneapolis, Minn. 

The genial person and personality of EEV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S.C, '90, are encountered more fre­quently about the campus, although Father Cavanaugh's talents are in such demands as to produce occa­sional absences or, more unfortu­nately, a fatigue that keeps him near the Commimity House. 
JOHN L. HERMAN, '91, is a loyal attendant at the functions of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
1894 

Hugh A. O'Donnel], The New York Times, New York City. 
Accompanying is an interesting photograph from the "Days of '94." Mr. JEWETT, whose present address is Pontiac, Mich., in the Office rec­ords, was formerly associated with his brother HABEY JEWETT, '90, the champion 100-yard sprinter of the nineties, later the manufacturer of the Jewett, Detroit, cars. NED JEWETT has been very successful in the manufacture of radios. 
LAMAE MONARCH was of the family famous in the Kentucky dis­tillery days. He was winner of the Barry elocution medal. He is now associated with the Knapp Co., Cin­cinnati. 
WILLIAM COERELL, of Johns­town, Pa., whom, accompanying in­formation states, was "One of Pro­fessor McCue's pets" in the engineer­ing course, forsook, apparently, this early training for the more imme­diate attractions of groceries and undertaking. 
Father MacNamara informs the ALUMNUS that WILLIAM C. HEN­GEN is now the Very Rev. W. C. Hengen, of the Episcopal Cathedral of Our Merciful Saviour, Faribault, Minn. 
Remember the Dix Reunion in June! 
1898 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl Bldg, Detroit, Michigan. 
FRANK HERING is enjoying a respite from the rather severe win­ter here through a trip to Florida. 
Dix Reunion in June! 
1899 
Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson 
BIdg., Peoria, Illinois. 
JAMES F. MURPHY, of Rock Island, 111., was re-appointed Master in Chancery of the Circuit Court for Rock Island County. He has served for ten years as Master in Chancer>', and his re-appointment had the com­mendation of the entire bar of that count}'. 
Dix Reunion in June! 
1900 
Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle 
St., Chicago, Illinois. 
JUDGE JOHN W. EGGEMAN was at the University for the Pitt bas­ketball game, and is busy these days with the plans for the Association for bigger and better things to be done before his term as President expires in June. 
Dix Reunion, May 30, 31 and Junel! 
1901 Joseph J. Sullivan, No. 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Illinois. 
A letter from JOHN NEESON, '03, Philadelphia, brings an interesting bit of news: 
"In the late issue of the ALUM­NUS, inquiry was made as to the address of EDUARDO HAY .. . At an engineering conference in Atlantic City last week, I met a prominent engineer from Mexico City, and he told me that Hay was now Ambas­sador (or Minister) to Guatemala City, Guatemala. He is said to be very close to the new President, Rubio, and will very likely be as­signed an important post either in the Diplomatic Service or the Cab­inet." 
1902 
Peter P. McEIIigott, 320 W. 23rd St., 
New York City. 
A story in this issue announces the succession of RT. REV. TIMOTHY CROWLEY, C.S.C, as the new Bishop of Dacca, Bengal, India. 
FRANK L. CARNEY, son of the timber and fumber merchant of Marinette, Wis., is still, as then, a citizen of the world. (So much so, that he is listed as 'Unclaimed' in the Office records.) 
HUGH A. O'DONNELL, assistant business manager of the New York rimes, carries still the enthusiasm. 
Seated (left to right)—E. H. Jewett; —Wm. Correll; Frank L. 
1895 Eustace Cullinan, Sr., 860 Phelan BIdg., San Francisco, Calif. 
No word has been received from the Secretary or any of the Class. Silence is not golden to Editors. 
1896 
William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave., 
Michigan City, Ind. 
President Hoover's comment on endowed institutions in this issue, is talcen from a publication of Ginn & Co., whom the Class Secretary repre­sents. 
1897 
Rev. John MacNamara, 16 Elm St., 
Garden City, L. I., N. Y. 
A letter from FATHER MAC­NAMARA indicates that his illness is fortunately less critical: 
the fire and the ability that marked him then as winner of the Barry medal and the Breen medal for Ora­tory, and the producer of Richard III., Louis XI., and Robert Macaire. Hugh has recently moved his head­quarters further uptown, a friend in­forms the ALUMNUS, somewhere on 67th St., if memory serves. 

Lamar Monarch. Standing (left to right) Carney; Hugh A. O'Donncll. 
"... They tell me I had a close call from crossing the great divide and I think it was prayer pulled me through. Leave it to the 'Praying Irish.' 
"I enjoyed the last two issues of the ALUMNUS very much and your notice of my illness brought a num­ber of letters of sympathy. The two 
N. D. men here were right on the job visiting me. They are AL DANNE­MILLER and ED IvENNY, JR. PAUL McGANNON was down to see me. As soon as I'm able I ex­pect to go out to St. Joseph's Sani­tarium, Mount Clemens, Mich., to re­cuperate and build up. . . I got home from the hospital, Feb 2, and expect to get back in trim after some time. Regards to all my friends, and 111 keep you posted on my whereabouts." 

February, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1903 Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
FRANK PETRITZ is enjoying a very active presidency of the Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Val­ley, Rockford, 111., and is, at the same time, keeping close touch •svith N. D. through his son, Joe Petritz, a sophomore. 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart, Ind. 

G. A. FAR.4B.4UGH is bustling about these winter months keeping very warm trying to arrange various details of paving, traffic, etc., in con­nection with the new stadium. From a few remarks the Judge let fall re­cently, his activities have borne fruit that will be e^-ident and welcome next Fall. 
1905 

Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St., 
Chicago, Illinois. For a Class about to celebrate its Silver Jubilee Reunion, news is scarce, but perhaps this is the calm before. May 30, 31 and June 1 are the dates. 
JOHN WORDEN was a visitor at the Office recently with a splendid idea for aiding Notre Dame develop­ment that will probably be heard of again. 
1906 
Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen 
BIdg, Spokane, Wash. 

REV. CH.A.RLES L. D'DONNELL, C.S.C, President of the University, is presumably enjoying this tradi­tional periol allotted to the Presi­dents for their vacations, but if the Plans for the Greater Notre Dame outlined last month have the signifi­cance the Editor believes they have, this time of pleasure for Father O'Donnell will not be without its business. 
1907 
T. Paul McGannon, 36 W. 44th St, New York City. 

The ALUMNUS has had some diffi­culty getting, and more in keeping, the address of ALAN DWAN. A person of prominence should not be hard to locate, and yet the Office ex­perience points to the contrary where the high position involves traveling, as is usually the case in the theater. Mr. Dwan was too active in campus and Class affairs to remain oS the list. 
REV. WILLIAM H. MOLONY, C.S.C, Registrar of the University, has just completed the registration for second semester, and is in the midst of receiving applications for next Fall. 
1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley BMg, Cleveland, Ohio. 

PROF. JOSE CAPARO continues to dispense the essentials of electrical engineering with the same quiet effi­ciency that attracts little attention on the campus, but places Notre Dame men on a par in the great electrical companies of the country OTth the graduates of the larger and more advertised schools of engineer­ing. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. 0. Box 356, Momence, Illinois. 

"Members of '09: Remember way back when—you wrote your names in everlasting concrete on the walk leading to Old College. Awake ye. Members of '09, who lolled lu.xurious­ly on the veranda of the ancient edi­fice of verdant vernal evening—^whilst the waters of beautiful St. Mary's Lake lapped lazily ashore and the lingering twilight—etc.— ad inf — Get busy and drop us a line." 
1910 

Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, Ohio. Friend Jim: 
Your general all-around backfield work at the Alumni Secretaries con­vention impressed me and I have started chasing the ball around again for the ALUMNUS. I had a word from "RED" MILLER who promises some assistance in lining up some news of the 1910 men. "Red" is do­ing so much travelling for the Gras­selli people that he missed some and all the dinner given at Ray's home some few weeks past. W. A. SCUL­LEN, D.D., LL.D. '26, JERRY ML­LER, RAY and your social secretary were there—with the proper accent on all the syllables of there. 
STEVE HERR writes from Chats­worth—the Citizens' Bank—and I sur­mise from the general tone of this letter that he knew in advance all about the Wall Street disturbance from the original disturber. Steve married a St. Maiys girl, and I fancy their tivo children will soon be old enough to hear Steve tell about the 
"paternal discipline which was aimed to give the fullest liberty consistent" 
with exceedingly few trips to St. Mary's. JESSE, 1913, brother of Steve, is practicing law at Pontiac, 111. 
ART HUGHES, vice-president of the National Bank of the Republic, Chicago, JIMMIE CAHILL and Steve exchange greetings and whatever else bankers exchange at the Illinois Bankers Association meeting. 
DE. JESSE BOTH came over mth a new record in my correspondence field. In addition to his office work in Kankakee, Jesse manages to spend Tuesdays and Fridays in Chicago, where he is instructor in the Uni­versity of Chicago College of Medi­cine. Jesse reports verbal jambourecs with PAUL MARTIN, who is doing Ph. D. work at Loyola. ED CLEAKY, another of the 1910 bankers, does his Saturday shopping at Kankakee— that is occasionally—or perhaps Roth makes Momence, but at that Roth and Cleary get together. 
Says Jesse: "At home there are two red-headed girls and one tow­headed boy and another black haired, dark eyed little rascal that does not seem amenable to any sort of dis­cipline, so with it all we have a rather noisy time at home. The girls are nine and eight years of age and the boys five and three." 
I am sending on the hope that the 1910 men reading this wiU dash mad­ly for the Carter quill and fluid to furnish some information and dope— I almost said dirt. 
MORIARTY. 
1911 

Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Natl. Bank BIdg., Chicago, Illinois. 
The Secretary, applying the golden rule to his recent Class Letters, sends in the following brief but eloquent biography: Fred L. Steers, residence, Chicago. Practicing—still literally— law. Married. Wife—same one I started with. Daughter — twelve years. Son^-eight years. Finances —low account aforesaid members of family. Health—good. Ambition— same as in June, 1911—too dumb to have learned. Experience—broad, but not beneficial. Capability—well, look at the news of 1911 and judge. 0 yes! Wanted, new Class Secretary. Experience not necessary." 
Fred's last crack isn't so appro­priate this time, because a few of the 1911 members have responded. 
Bay City, Mich. Dear Fred: 
the offices of JOSEPH C. GOD­DEYNE, A.B. '11, B.SJ^JI. (U. of Mich. '21) are preparing most of the plans of buildings in Michigan's thumb district. Bay City, where he has lived most of the time since graduating, is rumored to be on the verge of a tremendous boom. PETE BRYSSELBOUT, B.S. Arch. '29, is Astoria, Ore. 
one  of his draftsmen.  Best  regards  
to all his friends.  
J. C. G.  

Dear Fred: 
A small town la^vyer sees news so 

seldom that he fails to recognize it, 
so I can't supply much. I can answer 
to your roll call. Increasing in grey 
hairs and family, and worries seem to 
be very few. None of the Class of 
1911 around this particular haven, 
and I probably would not know how 
to act if I saw one. I make a period­
ical trip back east, and feel myself 
about due for another. Best wishes 
and good luck to yourself. 
Jim Hope. 
Portland, Ore. 
Sorry, but I don't know of any 

nought eleven man in this section. I 
can't even give you a squib about my­
self. I might tell you the story of 
Pat and Mike, or about tivo Scotch­
men who,—^but you may have heard 
it. Regards. 
W. A. Carey, C.S.C. Henderson, Ky. 

KEV. P. J. DALTON, C.S.C, known to old students as teacher at the University and prefect in Corby and Sorin Halls from 190S-11, has since his departure from Notre Dame engaged exclusively in mission and parochial work. Before being assigned to his present pastorship, he was as­sistant at the Immacluate Conception Cathedral in Louisville, Ky. More than three years ago he was ap­pointed by the Right Rev. John A. Floersch, D.D., to the pastor.'ship of the Holy Name Church, Henderson. This parish numbers between three and four hundred families, besides a parochial school of three hundred children, including an accredited high school taught by the Sisters of Charity of Nazareth, Ky. 
P. J. D. Stillwater, Minn. Dear Mr. Steers: Received your missive of the loth and want to say that I am still single. 
Attended the Twin City Notre Dame Club Christmas party which was held at the Hotel Radisson, Minneapolis, on Dec. 23. Tlie affair proved to be a great success. The Club puts on a number of parties, interspersed with meetings, during the year. The parties are becoming increasingly popular. 
Had the pleasure of meeting CARL SCHUTZ and his lovely wife here in Stillwater during the past summer. They passed through this city while on a business tour. Carl attended Notre Dame when I first went there. Hope to see you some time. With best wishes for the new year. 
Hermann G. R. Piper New York City 

Dear Fred: 
Am in hopes your letter will bring 

some responses from ED GLYNN, 
ELMO FUNK, JOHN McSWEENY 
and some of those others that we 
haven't heard from for years. As 
for me—I am still in the Chemistry 
Department of Columbia University. 
Married and have two children, a 
girl, 11, and a boy, 9. With kindest 
regards from one of the old St. Joe 
men. 
E. J. Quinn Tiffin, 0. Dear Fred: 
Jimmy Armstrong sent me the list and I am going to w^ork, and can safely say we will have an honest-to­goodness Notre Dame Club of Tiffin, 0., before another year rolls around. I want to assure Jack Cannon that everybody that heard him on his fly­ing visit to Tiffin, is his friend for life. Are we happy, well I guess. Rock is out of bed and playing on the beach at Miami, and if ever the Victoiy March should be played, it is for his recovery, the best and greatest victoi-y of all. ICindest re-• gards to all of the fellows who were there and made their last stand in 1911. 
Charles J. Schmidt 
1912 
Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, 
Sandusky, Ohio. 

JUDGE M. M. OSHE was sched­uled to deliver a lecture to the Col­lege of Law on Feb. 7. Judge Oshd is one of the very respected and popular special lecturers of the Col­lege, coming down from Chicago, where he has become an authority in real estate law. 
1913 

James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers Bldg., 
Cleveland, Ohio. 

PAUL BYRNE, University libra­rian, is once more conducting the in­tricate affairs of the University Library in his efficient fashion after having been ill following the Christ­mas vacation. Paul has organized the Library to keep pace with its growth and development and the in­creasing demands of the University in a way that has the commendation of the entire campus. 
1914 Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of Chicago, Chicago, HI. "IKE FEYDER stopped in to see me the other day while down here. He is practicing law in Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and is a member of the firm of Conway, Feyder and Con­
way. Ike is married, and has six 
children. 
"He informed me that ALBERT 

KUHLE, of the '15 Class, is married, 
and lives at Sioux City, Iowa, where 
he is manager of the Travelers Life 
Ins. Co." 
1915 
James E. Sanford, 8212 Kenwood 
Av e Chicago, UK 
EMMETT LENIHAN gets prom­

inent mention in the Western Wash­
ington Club account under the Local 
Clubs. 
GEORGE SHUSTER is in the lit­

erary limelight again, details to be 
found in this issue under "Suggested 
Reading." 
1916 

T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg, 
Hammond, Indiana. 
Dix Reunion, May 30, 31, June 1! 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. 

is to be thanked for the following news from REV. FRANCIS M.A.RIN SOL.A., O.P., who was superior of a colony of Dominican priests who studied at Notre Dame a few years ago. He afterwards went to a fa­mous theological seminary, the Al­bertinum, in Freiburg, Switzerland, as Professor of Dogma, a subject in which he is one of the greatest mas­ters of modem times. At the present time he is of the faculty of the Royal and Pontifical University of St. Thomas, in Manila. He writes: 
"Tlirough the Notre Dame ALUM­NUS, which I receive regularly, I observe with pleasure that our unfor­gettable University continues its un­interrupted march in every kind of triumph. And at the same time I enjoy reading the names of old friends who are still there. Of the eight years which I remained in the United States the two years passed at Notre Dame are those which have brought me the sweetest and most loved of my memories." 
1917 

John U. Riley, 244 Washington St, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
DLx Reunion, May 30, 31, June 1! 

MRS. JOHN U. RILEY has been a visitor at her mother's home in Niles, Michigan. The Editor has hoped to see John in this territory, but no sign or word. 
1918 

John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave, 
Eseanaba, Michigan. 
Dix Reunion, May 30, 31, June 1\ 

PETE RONCHETTI and PAT HARL are two of the alumni the Office is depending upon to see that 
February, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Paris observes Universal Notre Dame Night. 
1919 
Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., 
Gary, Indiana. 
Di.x Reunion, May 30, 31, June 1! 

Progress at the University is un­questioned, and in some cases un­believable. Take for instance the in­stallation of telephones in the rooms of faculty members living in Sorin Hall. PAUL FENLON is among those who can now be reached by this method. 
1920 Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldg, Los Angeles, Calif. 

CHARLEY GRIMES was in De­troit for a while recently, but was too busy with his publishing in­terests to cover the remaining miles. Charley's Features-That-Fit are in­creasingly popular. 
1921 
Alden J. Cusick, 530 Grant St., Denver, Colorado. 

Can anyone tell us where the popular WALTER O'lCEEFE usually hangs his hat? 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester, N. T. 

PETE CHAMPION is still holding forth as Vice-President of the Cham­pion Rivet Company, Cleveland. 
Mayo Brothers Clinic at Rochester, Minn, has added DR. JOHN MO­HARDT to its staff. All of Johnny's classmates will remember hini for his bullet-like forward passes and clever open field running in football. He should become equally expert in medicine. 
Men of '22 will be accorded a hearty welcome by FATHER BOB GALLAGHER should they happen to notify him of their presence in Toledo. Fr. Gallagher is assistant at St. Theresa's Church. 
CLINT'LINTZ in Rochester, N. Y. is with Chrysler Motors. 
A premature announcement in this section credited HUNK ANDERSON with a transfer from St. Louis Uni­versity to the University of Wash­ington to assist Jim Phelan. It now appears that Hunk will return to Notre Dame as assistant coach pre­sumably to replace TOM LIEB, who is slated for a position as head coach elsewhere. 
JOE REICHERT is \vith the Chem­ical Warfare Service. He is stationed at the Edgewood Arsenal, Edgewood, Md. 
TOM McCABE is Counsel for George M. Foreman & Co., Invest­ment Securities, Chicago. 
HARRY DENNY is now part of the law firm of Mulholland & Denny, Long Beach, Cal. 
The Big Four Railroad is running just as smooth as ever due in part to the efforts of FRITZ BAUMER, who is in the employ of that railroad. 
Our good friend JOE FARLEY is practicing law in Chicago, and is also becoming quite noted as a real estate operator. 
1923 Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
PAUL CASTNER has been leap­ing lightly from automobile show to automobile show, but has taken time out to promise happy days when the tumult and the shouting dies. Paul received an announcement of SPEN­CER McCABE'S wedding last Octo­ber from JACK NORTON and didn't recognize it as a Class conti'ibution until he thought about it recently. The ALUMNUS, howevei-, had listed the important news among the proper items. 
Paul also extends New Year's gi-eetings from the Class. 
HARRY CULLEN, who has been clicking with more regularity than the Brownson "rec" pool balls, cli­maxes his activities with a recently announced partnership in the firm of Charles E. Doyle and Company, 20 Pine St., New York City. Investment securities are the firm's stock in trade. 
KEVIN CURRAN, who has been in Edinburgh, Scotland, spent the holi­days on the Riviera. 
LOUIS CHESNOW is practicing architecture in Detroit. Louis wrote recently for the addresses of JOE SHAUGHNESSY and GEORGE Mc-HALE, fellow architects. He also added an appreciated compliment for the ALUMNUS, and endorsed the Living Endowment Plan. This, it is hoped, is typical of '23. 
1924 James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., New York City. 

Nothing seems to pull JIM HAYES out of the new subway. The Mexican system of handling Presidents has some merit. 
1925 John W. Scallan, Pullman Co, 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, HI. 
Now Hayes' friend SCALLAN is different. Scallan sends in a hastily penciled line of regret for not send­ing anything in. But then, the Class of '25 was always better that way. 
RALPH HEGER is manager of the Hack Motor Car Co., Vincennes, Ind., a Graham-Paige dealership, accord­ing to word from ED POLHAUS. 
BEN RESTING writes that one of his youngsters is a rabid ALUJI^US fan, especially since in the January issue he confused Father Sorin with Santa Claus. 
1926 

Gerald W. Hayes, 4700 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, III. 
My dear Jim: 
I just had word that OS GEN­lESSE passed away in Green Bay after a serious operation. Poor Os— he was such a peach; everyone ivjll certainly be saddened at this report. I have no particulars—but this al­ready is too much! 
TOM FARRELL was in town last week and we had two very delightful days together. Tom looks none the worse for his globe trotting. He brings word that EDDIE BURKE has forsaken Portland, Maine and is now managing the C. I. T. Company office in Mount Vernon, New York. Also that JIM WALDRON was down from Saranac over the holidays. Jim is as big as one of the Adirondacks; He'll be back with us for good dam soon. 
The following comes from HAR­VEY, GEBBEN, and BROWN—our successful attorneys—through Joe. 
"JERRY LEFT of Beaver Island, Michigan, finally found his land legs and dropped into the office the other day. Jerry is a licensed attorney in Illinois and reports that things are on the up and up with him. "ED KEATING of the same law class dropped in a month or so ago and gave us the news that he had just passed our Illinois Bar examina­tion. Ed is now married and laboring in this Windy City. 
"We received a letter from JIM STEWART of Norway, Michigan. Jim is hard at the practice of law in the famous state of 'life for a pint' and reports that while law work is harder than the old work in the gym, he is having one deuce of a good time. Did you know that Jim was married ? (Interjection—^Yes, Joe; it was one of the few successful summer school romances, of which there are no more!) 
"DON TROMBLEY of Mt. Clem­ens, Michigan, was in Chicago for the Southern California game and we had quite a reunion. Don is the first as­sistant prosecutor in Macomb County, Michigan, and likes the work im­mensely. The old boy was looking great when he was in Chicago. 
"BERNIE HURLEY is practicing law in Nebraska. We hear from the comhusker every now and then. Let­ters can reach him at Ponca, Nebras­ka. Seems like the work is so heavy out there that Bemie gets down to Sioux City but once a week these days. 
"DUTCH ZIMMERM.A.N, the faith­ful commerce man, is another who finds life one job after another. Dutch is usually to be found in Springfield, Illinois, but at times a letter sent to his ranch in Colorado will find him astride a bucking broncho. The Dutchman reports that he has plenty to do and that is the reason the ALUMNUS doesn't hear from him more frequently. 
"JIGGS G.A.LLAGHER is prac­
ticing law here in Chicago. He. is as­
sociated with a prominent law firm 
and IS stepping rapidly up the ladder 
of fame. 
"PAUL BENANTE of Indiana 
Harbor mails us a line every now and 
then. Paul successfully evaded the 
raids that were held there last Fall. 
He promises a nice perch dinner to 
any of the boys that drop into 
Indiana Harbor." 
Joe then goes on to state that he 
will see me at the Navy game next 
Fall. Before that I belivee I will 
drop up to Suite 412, 77 West Wash­
ington Street, and see the trio. Now 
if only one of the engineers would 
emulate Joe's good example, we'd re­
vive more of the deceased. 
The only other note I have is from 
JIMJnB STACK, who likes New 
York and St. Vincent's Hospital, in 
spite of the fact that he is seeing the 
city—^the Bowerj' and lower East Side 
—^from the back of an ambulance. 
This, Jim, is much shorter than I 
intended, but time is small at present. 
I hope to comer another page of the 
ALUMNUS next month. 
Bestest, 
Jerry Hayes. 
1927 
Edmund De Qercq, 8200 S. Ellis Ave, 
Chicago, n U Secretary. 
(The Editor does not wish to em­
barrass ED DECLERCQ, and the ab­
sence of news in the '27 column is 
attributable to various reasons, not 
the least of which is probably the 
failure of the members of the Class 
to wiite to Ed. But the following 
anonymous letter was interesting, ex­
pressive, and comparatively harmless. 

Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CLEVELAND: Mondays—year round luncheon meetings—the Allerton NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 East 38th Street. CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—^Ivory Room, Mandel's. DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Blonroe Avenue. PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—luncheon—Hotel Henry. LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—luncheon—12:15—University Club. CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon— Broadway Hotel. NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­ark Athletic Club. INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call Edward Pfeiffer, 407 Martin Brown Arcade, Louisville. WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly—January, April, October, December—Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, 1207 Wells Street. ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. Call Paul Castner, Studebaker Corporation, South Bend. DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 Ruby Street, for details. NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­merce Private Dining Room. SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. 
February, 1930 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNU 
The Gallic wars over, Gaul reduced to a peaceful Roman province and his tenn as Pro­consul about to expire, Julius Caesar had de­cisions to make. It was the bleak winter of 50-49 B.C. but Julius Caesar chafed in his Thirteenth Legion's camp at Ravenna, south­ernmost city of Cisalpine Gaul. Events at Rome disturbed him. The old triumvirate, Caesar, Pompey, Crassus, had ended with Cras­sus' death, and now world-conquering Pompey had Asia, Africa, Spain and Italy at his feet. Caesar, supreme only in Gaul, but counting on the devotion of his Legions, braced himself for an inevitable conflict. As TIME, had it been published on the Ides of January, 49 B.C., would have reported subsequent events: 
...To Julius Caesar came travel-stained Tribunes Mark Antony and Quintus Cassius Longinus, bearing bad news: On January 7th, the Senate, intimidated by Pompey's partisans, had declared Caesar guilty of high treason if he did not at once resign his Pro-consulship of Gaul, disband his legions. For seeking to exercise their traditional right of veto, they, Trib­unes Antony and Cassius, had been hounded from Rome by Pompey's soldiery. As they blurted out their story, long-nosed Caesar listened quietly, smiled faintly. "Then sharply, he issued orders to the Cen­turions of the Thirteenth Legion. 
Soon foot soldiers in small groups set out for fateful Ariminum (30 miles away), first Roman city beyond- the Gallic frontier. Caesar himself feasted and dined until mid-evening, then suddenly he left the banquet hall, leaped to a chariot, drove speedily southward, his cavalry thundering behind. 
Soon he came to the banks of the little river Rubicon, hardly more than a stream. At the ford, Gaul-Covemor Caesar paused until bis horsemen caught up. Here was the frontier he might not legally cross—in arms, and accompanied by his legions. Caesa> knew that five thousand of his foot soldiers were already well across the Rubicon, well on their way to Ariminum, but a touch of drama was necessary to weld his cavalrymen still closer to him, to nourish the fast-swelling Caesar legend. So, slowly, earnestly, he spoke: "My frends, if I pass not this river im­mediately, it will be for me the begituing of all mis­fortunes (a murmur from the ranks), and if I do pass it, I go to make a world of people miserable." (a cheer from the ranks). For an instant he hesitated, seemingly lost in thought, then suddenly drove his chariot through the shallow stream, crying in a deep voice "Let the die be cast!"... 
Two hours later Caesar overtook his foot soldiers at Ariminum, and by sim-up invested the surrounding countryside. Soon fleeing peasants were carrying to Rome inspired rumors that great Caesar with all his Legions was coming to avenge himself on Pompeius Magnus. Rome gasped in horror, remembering all too vividly the butcheries of too-recent civil strife between Marians and Sullans 
So too, in succeeding issues, would TIME have reported how Caesar drove Pompey out of Rome, then, relentlessly, out of Italy; how after four years of bitter civil war throughout the Empire, Caesar returned to Rome trium­phant, master of the civilized world—^until assassinated six months later. 
Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias, turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publica­tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal in the sense that diey report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups-
TIME 
The Weekly Newsmagaane 
- John Hanaxk Sata-
YOUR ESTATE 
today and tomorrow 
You naturally 
expect your present estate \vdll grow considerably be­fore it is turned over to your heirs and dependents. Why not guarantee that growth, with life insurance? You can create any desired estate loday with a John Hancock policy. 
INQUIRY BUREAU 197 Clarendon St., Boston, Mass. 
Please send booklet, "This Mat­ter of Success." 
-Ocer Sixty-fix Yeats in Baiiness ­
so it is being reprinted here. The Editor is willing to bet that Ed is as anxious for some development as any­one in the Class.) 
Dear Jim: 
Picture, if you can, the following cases of embarrassment threatening a coterie of some three hundred young intellectuals. 
A rising young executive deftly sinking molars into his well-formed chin-flaps as his "Chief" tells of glancing through a copy of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS the other night at the club, but not finding any notes on the Class of '27—was there one that year? 
An otherwise most "eligible" male resembling a California sunset while some alluring young debs coyly in­quire how come the he-man institute sent no "maidenly blessings" into the social stream in that dark year, 1927; and basing their query upon late in­vestigations in the Alumni column of the official records—the Notre Dame ALUimUS. 
A son of the common people whose sole claim to distinction as yet rests upon his collegiate sojourn at Eockne's ranch, vainly explaining to the drug store outfit that actually there was a Class of 1927, even though that state of affairs is not substantiated in the "notes" of the old grads' "gas meter." 
A Grad of the Noted "Un-Noted" Class. 
1928 Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind, Secretary. 
I have a letter here from ART DENCHFIELD which I know you will all enjoy as much as I did. Art is with the National City Bank of New York and is located in Monte­video, Uruguay. 
Dear Louie: You may think my assertion a bit "far-fetched," Gentlemen of the North, but the ALUMNUS of Noti-e Dame was as welcome as fresh bread in the old refectory to me. It brought down a bit of Indiana moonshine to beam down upon my Rio Plata; it brought down a good old Hoosier snowstorm to cool my sweltering arms; it brought down memories of an old log chapel and a man filled church to my parish, where but three men to a hundred women kneel; it brought down an echo of a thunder­ing yell on Cartier Field to wake me from my solitude; but, most treasured of all, it brought a smell of cigarettes, a chuckle, and the soft sounds of some secret Sorin seminar. To American youth, or better, to the public of the United States of 
North America, I sincerely recom­mend, as I believe all of us here who have read the article do, the articles by Irvin Cobb beginning in the Sep­tember issue of Cosmopolitan and en­titled "The Friends Next Door." Ev­ery Notre Dame man, regardless of his past, present, or future, should read it. 
Thanks to FRANK BRANSON, received an extra copy of the ALUM­NUS, but which event has caused me to ponder a bit—^whether I have two Alumnuses, or Alumni. Please ask Jim Armstrong about this and if said information is not contained in the subscription price, upon your negative notification I will draw a prime bankers' 89-day sight draft on Mish­awaka to cover the difference. 
I am glad to hear that you are back at Notre Dame. That must be a great feeling—teaching the laws of Econ­omics to boys who don't know how you used to throw away cigarettes with only two puffs having been taken from them. I don't see why you didn't get the post of teaching Dis­tributive Justice—^you know they don't let the lay profs teach those "science of wealth" courses, whether its because of such slight familiarity 

Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
CHASE NATIONAL BANK BtllLING 
* 

TW'ENTy PINE STREET 
( 

NEW YORK CITY 
HARRY J. CULLEN, '23 ' 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Business and Professional Directory 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiii lllllllllllllllllillllllll iiiiiiiiii*ii(U((iMiiu»tH(iiuitHiuiMiiMMtiHHM»tnMiititiniiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS DAYTON, OHIO 
Unclaimed Mail

•iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit — llltKIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUKUUIIIIIIIUHIUMIHlH 
Established 1911 (From time to time, lists like this 
JOSEPH B. MURPHY, '11 
will appear. Yon will confer a favor COOPER-KANAIEY and CO. on these men and the Association by ATTORNEY-AT-LAW sending in their present address. The 309-15 Mutual Home Bldg. 
FIRST MOSTGAGE INVESTMENTS 

Association has not the facilities for 
Dayton, Ohio 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. 

tracing lost members.) 
I Murphy & Murphy
Tel. FranMin 0353. 
Martin, James A.—'23 Z

 iimiiniiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiit iuittHitut»Mmttuiiinti)iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii>iiiiiiittiiiiiiiiiii 
Maguire, Walter J.—'12 
Mangan, Michael—'20 

! NEW YORK CITY 
SOUTH BEND, IND. Maroney, Joseph J.—'11 Jlassey, George J.—'14 
••••••••••itaiiiiiun 
Mayer, Leonard F.—'18 
Meara, James M.—'16 

POLAR ICE & FUEL Meinerding, Edwin A.—'18-'19 
Mendoza, Jose M.—'11 

COMPANY Mertes, Albert T.—'09 
WILLIAM A. DAUNT 
Metzger, Leo R.—'22 John (Ike) Voedisch, '27 Jleyei-, Richard A.—'26 Meyers, John R.—'99 
Ass't Manager 
Miller, Franklyn E.—'22 
jmier, John W.—'97 
iiiiiiiiitiiiiiii 
Mixson, Leo J.—'23 
Moloney, James I.—'09 

COLUMBUS, OHIO Monahan, Wm. P.—'00 Montenegro, Pio Nono—'23 Moore, Elwyn M.—'20 Moran, Dennis S.—^"15 
Law Offices 
Moran, Edgar F.—'17 
Jlorgan, Stephen J.—'13 
HAMILTON & KRAMER 
Morrison, Charles W.—'21 
Moushey, Paul J.—'14 

701-3 HUNTINGTON BANK BLDG. CORRECT EQUIPJtENT 
Moynihan, Andrew J.—'21 

Moynihan, Robert J.—'26 for any 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
MuUer, Adolph S.—'08 
ATHLETIC SPORT Munecos, B. A.—'16 

DONALD M. HAmLTON, '12 
Munecos, Jose F.—'16 

518 Fifth Ave. 105 Nassau St. 
Murphy, Cecil J.—'24 Murphy, Charles W.—'10 28 New Street JIurphy, Christopher B.—'27 
YOUR N. D. FRIENDS 
Murphy, Edward J.—'27 
Murphy, Edward W.—'24 
Want to Do Business 

Murphy, William J.—'10 Many Commissions Navin, Louis E.—'24 
With You. have been lost to N. D. 
Newning, S. D.—'14 

Nyere, George L.—^'04 Men through lack of this 
llllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMlllltlllllllltllllllllllllllllMt­
Nolan, Michael—'12 very Imowledge. O'Brien, J. C, Jr.—'12-'14 
This is One of Your First O'Brien, Simon A.—'08 
O'Brien, Wilmer L.—'11 

Oppoi'tunities to Profit O'Dea, Michael T.—'88 DON'T WAIT 
O'Day, George P.—'26 

as Alumni. Odem, Bryan S.—'17 to see who else is in. O'Donnell, Earl C—'23 
That's what is

O'Donnell, John H.—'15 O'Hara, Francis J.—'99 Wrong Now!
THE NEW ALUMNUS O'Hara, Owen F.—'01 
(iiiiiiiillltliiiiiiiiiiiiltiatiiMiiiiiliiiii 
O'Flynn, James B.—'11 
is a Better but Costlier 
O'Keefe, Walter M.—'21 

Magazine. Olsen, Francis—'26 IF YOU 
Ong, Dominic Ching Kay—'23 

CAN USE BUSINESS 
O'Neill, John C—'05 
O'Neill, John W. (M.D.)—'05 

Take one of these Cards. 
Send Copy for O'Neill, Terrence J.—'13 Onzon, Frank J.—'95 
•IKMIIllllllllllMlinllMIHMIIIlllinlllUIMIIttlltUMIUIIillll* 
the Next Four Issues to 
Osean, Dr. Harold T.—'22 

J. E. ARMSTRONG O'Shea, John P.—'06 Rate is payable by month, 
{To ha continued.)

Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. in advance, or in June. 
with the subject or not, I don't know. 
Anjnvay, Louie, give a big howdy to 
all and think of me thinking of the 
ALUMNUS (and a possible letter 
from you?) as being as welcome as a 
person asking Art Haley for 5-yard 
line seats. 
Yours in '28, 
ART L. DEXCHPIELD. 
Now if Art can keep in touch with the class when he is located in South America, I should think some of the '28 men in the states would feel guilty for not writing and resurrecting enough class spirit to let us know where they are. 
HOWIE PH.A.LIN jumps from Davenport, Iowa, to Tulsa, Oklahoma, where he is located at the Ambassa­dor. 
ORVILLE MURCH is with the 
-41pena Power Company, Alpena, 
Michigan. Ori'ille is kept busy, ac­
cording to reports, satisfying the 
people of Alpena who clamor for 
power and the service that goes 
with it. 
I meet a '28 man now and then about South Bend. PEAEL MOORE can usually be seen any evening at 712 East Jefferson Blvd., although he gives his address as 808 E. Madison Street. CHARLIE DEGROOTE is married and lives at 813 - 34th Street, in the Bend. Charlie is a high pow­ered insurance man with the Con­necticut Mutual Life. BILL ARJIIN is on the campus once in a while to say "hello" to the few '28 men left here. Bill is with the Colin Kennedy Corporation and seems to be quite the popular radio man about town. 
CECIL ALEX.-iNDER is manager of the Ben. Franklin Chain Store at 1021 S. Michigan Street. I haven't seen Cece all year, but I understand that he is doing quite a rushing busi­ness. I see ART GOLDBURG occa­sionally in South Bend when he di-ops in for a week-end from Chicago Uni­versity Law School. While speaking of South Bend '28 men, I must not forget to mention our friend FRANK DONOVAN. I must admit I gave Frank his share of publicity the first of this year, but if you could have been at Frank's house the other even­ing at his birthday party you would agree with me that such a wonderful meal deserves publicity, even if Frank has already received sufficient. Frank is building a new home which he ex­pects to be ready for occupancy about June 1, so I am taking this oppor­tunity to in\'ite all the gang who \\'ill be back for Commencement to be on hand for a real house-warming. 
For the benefit of the '28 men who might be in trouble while stopping in Detroit enroute to Canada, I have the word that we have a '28 man who is making a name for himself in the Law game there. The man I have in mind is ED MCCLARNON, who has offices at 2600 Union Trust Building. JOHN FREDRICK and DAVE KREMliS are living together in Detroit at 5067 Cass Street. While on the subject of the Detroit gang it would never do to forget our friend LEO WALSH, whose address is 3765 Chicago Blvd. Lee and John expect to finish their Law at Detroit U. in June. 
GEORGE J. McLINEY is in the bond game with Baum, Bernheimer Company, 1016 Baltimore Avenue, Kansas City, Mo. 
BILL CARNEY writes that the '28 fellows at Har\'ai-d Law are kept busy with their studies and social activities. The '28 men at Harvard include FRANK "MICKEY" FLANNIGAN, JIM CULLEN, DICK PHELAN, JIM SHOCKNESSY, BILL LEAHY, CARROLL PINKLEY, HAROLD RUPPEL, JERRY BIGGE and BILL DUFFY. Bill's address is 58 Ham­mond Street, Cambridge, Mass. Bill tells us that L.4.RRY WHITE is attending a couple of English classes at a co-ed college in Colorado Springs, and that he finds co-ed experience rather interesting. Lari-y's address is 220 East Washington St., there. 
1929 
Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St, Indianapolis, Ind, Secretary. 
A call in the stilly night of dead­line date brought the querulous voice of the '29 Secretary with explanations (cf. thesaurus) of the absence of an­ticipated copy under this important head. The Secretary was on some mysterious mission in South Bend that aparently brought him in under cover of darkness and took him out likewise. 
A letter from FRANK SIUDZIN­SKI says that he is now with the Chi­cago Daily News foreign service. Boom 1001, 63 Park Row, New York City. Frank says, "I'm already tired of getting lost trying to ride through the subways, on ferries, and in air­planes and soon will look up some of the classmates—^just to see if I can be beaten at the post-luncheon game of reaching for the check last." 
And in case you missed it—reliable advice from New York says not to come thei-e looking for jobs now. 

Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
Manufacturers of 
Tumbling Mill Stars for Gray Iron Emery Wheel Dressers 
Foundi'ies 

Sand Blast Nozzles for Malleable Iron 
Annealing Pots Foundries. 

Miscellaneous White Iron Castings 
A. F. (ADFRIES,'16 
Vice-Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 






