The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 23 OCTOBER, 1945 No. 5 
Mascot Clashmore Mike II, a gift to the University from James McGarraghy, Chicago, (left), long a devoted friend of Notre Dame, is welcomed by Coach Hugh Devore. Clashmore Mike I, II years old,' died on Sept. 17 and was buried in the Notre Dame Stadium. 
Picture by James L. Ferstel, '48 
^' 
i2*>­

'^!i^\­

AUimiu HelUfUuU^ BiUUtin 
BY BEV. JOHN P. LYNCH, aS.C, 'JS : 
WELCOME YALE (With Beservoiions) 
About five years 
ago, we made a pre­
diction in the Notre 
Dame Religious Bul­
letin. Within ten 
years, we said, any 
student would feel 
cheated if he had 
not religious train­
ing and instruction 
in college. 
Today, only five
Failier Lynch 

year s later, Yale, through its special Committee on Eeli­gion, confirms that statement. 
The Yale committee's report, front­paged in the New York Times, Sunday, August 5, admits that religion is so im­portant an aspect of human life that no university is doing its duty toward yovmg men which does not oirer them the best obtainable instruction in the field. 
The committee, appointed by Yale's president, insists on a special depart­ment of, and emphasis on, religion say­ing, "If Yale is looking for a venture which will be acclaimed for its leader­ship and vision in the country and in the world, we believe this is the venture. . . . (Yale) must, therefore, believe that such a study of prayer, faith and deeds will be no less profitable than the same sort of study in economics and agricul­ture." 
The report asks alumni to raise money for this worthy and necessary venture of leadership!—and Yale's en­dowment is already $113,933,353. 
(We say welcome with reservations because the religion the committee ad­vocates is an eclectic system of Chris­tianity, Judaism, Hinduism, Moslemism and Confucianism. Confusion, yes, but it is at least a recognition of religion's importance and an attempt to teach it.) 
WELCOME HABVABD, TOO 

About a year ago, John Dewey and Alexander Meiklejohn engaged in a dis­cussion on education in Fortune maga­zine. In it, Mr. Dewey states, "We are uncertain as to where we are going, or where we want to go and why we are doing what we do." (sic) 
How would you like to be in a Flying Fortress with a pilot who was uncertain where he was going, where he wanted to go or why he was flying? 
Yet Mr. Dewey has been the pilot of American education for almost half a century through Columbia University Teachers College. 
As pilot, he threw not only God and the soul completely out of his calcula­tions and principles, but also the classi­cal tradition. 
Both Harvard and Yale as part of the revolt have publicly announced the rejection of the elective system and a re­turn to the more classical and tradition­al program of prescribed courses with a minimum of electives. 
Catholic education long ago opposed the elective system and was accused, therefore, of being unscientific and out­moded. 
Notre Dame and all Catholic schools have had Christ and the classical tradi­tion for their guide. They haven't had to spend thousands to find out where to go and how. 
ATOMIC BOMB 

Yale is now going to bring God and the soul back into educatioii. 
That declaration and admission of Yale is more important for civilization than the atomic bomb—because without religion and moral control of the atomic bomb, the end of civilization is in sight. 
Life!s editorial of August 20 stresses this: "Our sole safeguard against the very real danger of a reversion to bar­barism is the kind of morality which compels the individual conscience, be the group right or wrong. The individual conscience against the atomic bomb? Yes, there is no other way." 
WHERE'S "THE BRAVE NEW WORLD"? 
They've made a mess of things so far since they broke away from and denied God, Christ and His teachings and the soul—and started out in their arrogant agnosticism and self-sufficiency to con­struct "a hrave new world" in H. G. Well's phraseology. 
It isn't brave any more, if s scared, very scared: It isn't new, either. It's old and very weai-y! 
It's going back to the old world, the old pagan Rome of power, cruelty, slav­ery, licentiousness, immorality, women as chattels, easy divorce. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Life's editorial calls a spade a spade and admits that man has reason to be afraid. It also asserts that when this bomb was introduced, human slavery was just being reintroduced into Europe, with specific American consent, "in ap­proving forced German labor for Rus­sians without pay." 
iAfe isn't the only one scared. Witness the declaration of the Sixth Annual Con­ference of scholars on Science, Philos­ophy and Religion. It was before this group that Einstein presented a paper a few years ago denying the existence of God and asserting belief in Him ham­pered science and progress "of a brave new world"; typical of the attitude of too many philosophers, scientists and educators. 
THEY ASKED FOR IT! 

Agnostic and atheistic educators, phi­losophers and scientists wandered away in the past from God, Christ and reli­gion and nullified religious effect. Now they bemoan religion's little influence and they're scared, and complain; in their declaration: 
"There is no culture in the. present world which is adequately adapted to­ward the establishment of world peace. The effort of Jewish and Christian reli­gious teachers to transform culture into such a force has been only partially suc­cessful. From the point of view of these faiths, much of western life remains 'pagan' [sic!—Ed] to this day: in the sense that it is still directed toward power over other men and places its trust in power, rather than in justice, faith and charity^" 
Where will they get guidance (for their conscience) in "justice, faith and charity" except from Christ? 
They won't look to Christ though. They will keep stumbling along into worse messes, looking for guidance to John Dewey, Bertrand Russell, H. G. Wells, Yale, Harvard, Columbia, agnostic pro­fessors. Uncle Joe Stalin, Walter Win­chell, Holly^vood, Broadway, Mickey Mouse, Orphan Annie. . . . 
They are grasping for the truth and fact Christ gave them by His love and death for man—The Mystical Body of Christ. 
JOBS FOR NOTRE DAME SERVICE MEN 
Last month's ALUMNUS announced plans by several clubs to assist returning veterans- Heart-warming, it was, yet this is not only charity; it is not only the fa­mous Notre Dame spirit: it is simple justice that we should aid these men who have suffered and fought for us. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published bi-montUy by the Univeraity of Notre Dame^ Notre Same; Indiana. Batared 
as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Fostoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, tmdcr the act of 
August 24, 1912. Member of the American AInmni Council and of the National CatfaoUe Alumni Federation. 
Iconea E. Azmstiong. '25, Editor; William B. Dooley. '26. Managing Editor Vol. 23 OaOBER. 1945 No. 5 
Science and the Public Welfare 
World War II has had the effect of intensifying and accelerating research to an unprecedented degree as thousands of scientists in the universities and in private industry combined their talents and turned them to a wide variety of 
•projects that would hasten the day of victory. It was apparent from the very be­ginning, however, that much of the work they were doing in their laboratories in order to give the United States the best equipped and best cared-for fighting men the world has ever known should have much more than a wartime utility. For example, nutritional studies, discoveries in medicine, disease control, and new surgical techniques, as well as a large number of amazing mechanical develop­ments, from radar to the splitting of the atom, could be turned to excellent ac­count in a peacetime economy. 
AntidpaiiQg Postwar Problems 

Realizing this possibility, and antici­pating the vast problems that the post­war would bring, the late President Roosevelt wrote to Dr. Vannevar Bush, director of the Office of Scientific Re­search and Development, last November 17, six months before V-E Day and nine months before the final victory over Japan, suggesting that "The informa­tion, the techniques, and the research experience developed by the Office of Scientific Research and Development. . . should be used in the days of peace ahead for the improvement of the national health, the creation of new enterprises bringing new Jobs, and the betterment 
(^Because of the current stress on science and the future of the nation as it affects and is affected by the laboratories of the universities, the "Alumnus" asked the President of Notre Dame to outline the significant work in this field of -which he has been an active and integral part as a member of the Committee on Science and the Public Welfare.—Ed.) 
REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, '16 President of the University 
of the national standard of living." Specifically, the President asked Dr. Bush for his recommendations on four major points: 
Four Major Points "First: What can be done, consistent with military security, and with the prior approval of the military authorities, to make laiown to the world as soon as possible the contributions which have been made during our war effort to scientific knowledge? "The dilFusion of such .knowledge should help us stimulate new enter­prises, provide jobs for our returning servicemen and other workers, and make possible great strides for the improve­ment of the national well-being. "Second: With particular reference to the war of science against disease, what can be done now to organize a pro­gram for continuing in the future the work which has been done in medicine and related sciences? "The fact that the annual deaths in this country from one or two diseases alone are far in excess of the total num­ber of lives lost by us in battle during this war should make us conscious of the • duty we owe future generations. "Third: What can the government do now and in the future to aid research activities by public and private organi­zations? The proper roles of pubb'c 
and private research, and their inter­relation, should be carefully considered. "Fourth: Can an effective program be proposed for discovering and devel­oping scientific talent in American youth so that the continuing future of scien­tific research in this country may be assured on a level comparable to what 
has been done during the war?" President Roosevelt's letter was pio­vocative. Dr. Bush turned to his asso­
ciates and others tor advice on the preparation of a reply. After some dis­cussion, it was decided to create four special committees, properly equipped to bring in a variety of opinion, to devote their attention to the questions raised. 
Or. Bowman Is Chaizman 

Dr. Isaiah Bowman, president of John Hopkins University, was asked to be chairman of a Conunittee on Science and the Public Welfare to consider Presi­dent Roosevelt's third question. 
The sixteen members of the Bowman 
Committee** included represenatives of 
** Members of the Committee: Isaiah Bowman, Chairman, J(^ns Hopkins University. John T. Tate, Vice Chairman. Research Pro­fessor of physics. University of Minnesota. 
W. Rupert Haelaurin. Secretary, Professor of Economics. Massachusetts Institute of Technolosy. Oliver E. Buckley, President. Bell Telephone Laboratories. Walter C. Coffey, President, University of Minnesota. Oscar S. Cox. Deputy Administrator, Foreign Economic Administration. Bradley Dewey. President, Dewey ft Almy Chemical Company. Clarence A. Dykstra. Provost. University of California at Los Angeles. Caryl P. Haskins, Director, Hasldns Labor­atories. Edwin H. Land, President and Director of Research, Polaroid Corporation. Charles E. MacQuigg, Dean of Engineering, Ohio State University. 
Harold G. Moulton. President. Brookings Insti­tution. 
J. Hugh ODonnell. President. Notre Dame University. ••• 
I. I. Rabi. Professor of""Physics. Columbia Uni­versity (recipient of Nobel Award). Warren Weaver, Director for Natural Sciences. Rockefeller Foundation. Robert E. Wilson. Chairman of the Board, Standard Oil Company of Indiana. 
William E. Wratber, Director. U. S. Geological Survey, Department of Interior. 
•** The President of the University is deeply grateful to Fr. Philip Moore, dean of the Grad­uate School, for his gracious helpfulness during the course of the committee's deliberations. 
government, industry, and higher edu­cation. After analysis of the task at hand, they determined upon an agenda that included such topics as what the government can do to assist research in universities and non-profit research organizations; how the government can assist scientific research conducted by the government itself, and how the government can assist research in indus­try. The Committee also gave thought to possible changes in the tax structure that would stimulate industrial research, and also to the determination of a policy that would encourage greater international interchange of scientific knowledge and engrineering art after the war. Smaller groups within the Committee considered each of these subjects, and the analysis they undertook were combined into the final report. 
Federal Govenunent-Private Beseorch 

One of the three full meetings held by the Committee was devoted to the concept of the Federal Government in relation to private research. In this sub­ject the university presidents and other representatives of educational institu­tions had a vital interest, in view of their natural—and, historically, by no means groundless — apprehension that federal subsidy can be a serious threat to the academic independence which higher education has always gruarded so jealously. 
Some recent experiences were fresh in their minds. About three years ago, for example, the Federal Government, faced with grave problems of war finance, and in need of additional revenue and sources of revenue, seemed willing to entertain a proposal to set limits on those deductions on estate taxes that now permit gifts for educational pur­poses. Had the suggestion been adopted, investment portfolios of every privately-owned college and university in the coun­try woiild have suffered so severely a? to make it necessary to seek other means of financing their operations. What those methods would have been, univer­sity presidents—^the writer among them —were unable to say, but the threat of federal subsidy and all that it implies loomed large upon the horizon. 
That measure came to naught, but not too long afterward a federal-aid bill appeared in both houses of Congress. If enacted, it would have provided $300,000,000 to be distributed among the states as aditional support for public primary and secondary schools, to help "keep competent teachers in the schools" at a time when the average annual salary of teachers in the United States was $600 below the average annual wage of factory workers. Although that state of affairs was deplorable and demanded a remedy, many educators felt that the suggested cure was at least as bad as the disease, since it could hardly escape bringing with it a federal bureaucracy of a nature and scope that should alarm the public, including the very teachers who would presumably be the beneficiar­ies of federal aid. 
I mention these instances and the re­action to them because they indicate a traditional wary attitude toward the encroachment of any agency, govern­mental or otherwise, upon the autonomy and integrity of institutions of learning. At the same time, however, it must be said that within the past five years or so—that is, during the period of national emergency and throughout the war it­self—^many colleges and universities found themselves working in complete harmony with a number of governmental departments and bureaus, to their common advantage, and with never a hint of dictation. To illustrate, I need go no further than the University of Notre Dame. Our Naval E.O.T.C. unit was established before the war, and will continue after it. We also have had un the campus a Naval Keserve Midship-mens School and a complement of V-12 students. In adition, we have had in our laboratories a number of research projects especially assigned to us by the government. Our experience has been uniformly satisfactory and pleasant. At no time has there been any tendency to interfere with the character and primary purposes of the University. On the contrary, we have always found in our governmental associates an intelligent and sympathetic approach to any uni­versity problem that touched upon their specialized activities. 
Realized Value of Bcseaich 

The Bowman Committee realized the value of research in university and non­profit organization laboratories, much of "which is known as "pure" research. It knew, in other words, that it is not always possible to visit a laboratory and say that one man will discover this, and that another will develop that. But it is possible to say that scientists in such laboratories have in them the power and the promise to justify being allowed to work in freedom so that the nation will not be deprived of the certain benefits which result from their work, whatever it may be. 
But freedom here means more than the absence of academic or other inter­ference. It is positive rather than nega­tive in that it implies active encourage­ment, and not a mere laissez-faire policy. 
And it certainly includes having at one's disposal enough financial backing to pursue promising lines of inquiry. I am reminded that Father Julius A. Nieuw­land, C.S.C, discovered the components of synthetic rubber as early as 1906. Not until fourteen years later did he success­fully form an oil with these components from which rubber itself could be syn­thesized. Meanwhile, he was sometimes obliged to finance -his own experimenta­tion by making and selling botanical slides. Dr. Albert A. Zahm was simi­larly handicapped. His advanced work in aeronautics during the 1880's—cut short because insuflScient funds did not permit the purchase of the equipment needed—^remained theoretical for years and then was developed by the experi­ments of others. 
Nieuwlond and Zahm 

How much less than fourteen years would it have taken Father Nieuwland to bridge the gap between his origfinal formulae and his workable components had he been supplied with adequate materials? What other discoveries might he have made in the time saved? Had Zahm's experimentation been unrestrict­ed so that he could have demonstrated his theories immediately, how far might aviation have advanced unretarded be­cause of the experiments of this imagin­ative scientist? Eventually, of course, Nieuwland and Zahm succeeded despite handicaps. But the nation lost those incalculable benefits which might have come from the time, energy, courage, and genius that they were obliged to expend in surmounting difficulties they found before them. 
These are two instances—^two of many that might be cited—of benefits deferred. No one will ever know how many there may have been of benefits perhaps lost forever because of lack of support to the right person at the. right time. It was to help prevent such losses in the future that the Committee on Science and Pub­lic Welfare gave serious consideration to the role that the Federal Government can play in private research. 
And it is none too soon for such stock­taking. We have been an ingenious and inventive people, it is true; but, in the words of the Committee report: "Our national pre-eminence in the fields of applied research and technology should not blind us to the truth that, with respect to pure research—^the discovery of fundamental new knowledge and basic scientific principles—^America has occu­pied a secondary place. Our spectacular development of the automobile, the air­
(Continued on Page 24) 

awarded for the semester which starts Nov. 5. They are exduaively for enter­ing freshman students, hig^i-seliool grad­uates of superior seholastie ability who have a real need of fjnancial assistance. 
The five residential scholarships bring 1500 per term; the tuitional scholarships are in the amount of |200. The tenaie is for two terms, the full freshman year. 
The University committee on scholar­ships will make its selections of candi­dates on the basis of validated records of scholastic achievement in high school and~ the candidate's evident financial need. Applications have been solicited throughout the country, and were to have been filed before Sept. 24. 
These annual memorial awards to de­serving students are not made from en­dowment, it will be noted, but from the current annual support of alumni, who should feel a particular satisfaction in the dual merits of the Father Bums scholarships—meeting a present critical need for student aid, and commemorating one of Notre Dame's great alumni and administrators. 
Army Service Feccas 
OfEe* ef the Ccaanandiag Gwwiol WaahiagtoD. 25. D.C. 
SeplMBbw 1& lf«5 

Rev. J. Hugh ODeaaeU. VrmMaaA 
Univandty oi Notre Dame dn Lac 
South Bend, bdidna 
My dear Father ODooneO: 
Your inatitnlion has played a vaiy !••­porloat port in pcedudng this malarial vHneh has bean sa d a daciaiva fader in winning tha war. You and yonr oasociortas must have a deep aenaa of satiaiaeSca as yon look bode npoa year aeeampBah­mania for your cenaixy. 
New thai Iha war is won. I woni to aoc­prasB to you tha gtolilnda and uppraU­alioa oi tha Amy Saxviea Foreaa iee Iha magnificant ochiavamanls of your otgon­isalioa. 
Tha aaatgy, iaitiativa. and afficiaaey irideh yen and yonr ceUaognes hova da-Bonstralad in tha war afiocl giva BM CBM idala eonfidaace thai Iha pnblaaw-of peace wil ba mat with tha aoma aOaeSva­neas as thoaa el wai and wiU ba 'as swift­ly and as sneeaaafnUy sohrad. 
Vli& aU good wishaa for tha fatara. I remain 
Vary sncaraiy youia Brahea SeoMivall 
Gsnacd. Owiiuiiiding Communicate 
Twenty-three local Notre Dame clubs had, up to Oct. 1, appointed vocational chairmen to assist returning Notre Dame war veterans, and other Notre Dame men, in their employment problems. All such men are invited to communicato with one of the following: 
NEW YORK CITY: lohn T. BoUe. '20, 60 E. 42nd St. 
CHICAGO: Edward F. O'TooIe, '25, 10 S. LoSoUe SU Boom 807, (tCss Icme Cahill in charge of club'a permanent office at this addreu.) 
CLEVELAND: Clayton G. Leroux. '27, As­sistant Personnel Director. Monarch Alu­minum Manufacturing Cou 9301 Detroit Ave. 
WESTEBN PENNSYLVANIA: lohn F. Mc Mahon. '28, Manoging Director, Indus­trial Hygiene Foundation, Inc. Mellon Institute, 4400 Fifth Ave„ PitUburgh. 
BUFFALO: Joseph F. Ryan, '39, 50 Fron­tenac ATB. 
DETROIT: Henry F. Clark. '30, 324 Wash­ington Square Bldg., Royal Oak, VHeb. 
MILWADKEE: Edward J. Rogers, '17, Presi­dent Layne-Northwest Co., 709 N. 11th StreeL 
PHILADELPHIA: Harold E. Duke, '30, Man­ager, Wayne Pump Co., 4030 N. Brood Street 
PORTLAND. ORE.: WiUiam C. Schmitt, '10, President Schmitt Steel Co„ 2407 N.W. 28th Ave. 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTHEASTERN MAS­SACHUSETTS: J. Clement Grimes, 384 River Ave., Providence, B. L ' 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY, DID.: Judge J. Elmer Peak. '12. Court House, South Bend. 
ST. LOUIS: Robert T. Hellrung. '30. Mon-ager, St Louis Medical Credit Bureou. Humboldt Medicca Bldg.. 306 N. Grand Blvd. 
TWIN CITIES, MINNESOTA: Louis J. Re­gan. '29, Personnel Director, Sears Roe­buck & COM Mirmeapolis.' 
WASHINGTON. D. C: Bernard E. Losh­bough. '29. National Public Housing Conference, Lie. I0I5 15th St, N. W. 
OKLAHOMA: Robert M. Siegfried. '37. 305 Nationol Bank of Tulsa Bldg„ Tulsa. 
BERRIEN COUNTY, MICHIGAN: Maurice 
A. Weber, '25, Peoples State Bank Bldg., St Joseph. 
23 Vocational Chairmen Named 
Veterans and Others Invited to 
 With Chairmen 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Eeene Htspot­rick, '13, 155 Montgomery St. San Fran­cisco. 
DELAWARE: J. FendaU Froning. '37. 416 Geddes St., IXmmington. 
CINCINNATI: Richard W. ScaUan. 3612 Victory Lane. 
LOS ANGELES: Paul F. Glass, '40, 8418 Loyola Blvd. 
INDIANAPOLIS: Fred L. Mahaffey. '17. President Consolidoted Finance Co. 850 Consolidated Bldg. 
KENTUCKY: Joseph F. Donoldson. '23. Di­rector of Safety, City HaU. Louisville. 
FORT WAYNE: Harry G. Hogan. '04. 131 
E. Wayne St 
The Alumni Office at Notre Dame, through William R. Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, is coordinating the efforts of all these chairmen by supply­ing identical application forms to each chairmen and by an exchange of in­formation, job openings and job applica­tions. Bill Dooley will also attempt to assist vocationally those alumni who do not reside within one of the club areas above. 
BURNS SCHOLARSHIPS ESTABLISHED 
Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C., '88, president of the University from 1919 to 1922, former provincial of the Con­gragation of Holy Cross, and one of America's greatest Catholic educators, will be commemorated by scholarships established under his name by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, president of the University. 
The new scholarships, effective in the November semester, were approved by the Alumni Board, and the funds will be allocated from the Second Annual Alum­ni Fund. Alumni, many educators, and other friends of Notre Dame, who re­member Father Bums and his great in­terest in providing Catholic education for deserving boys of limited means, readily recognize the significance of the new scholarships. And necessary in­creases in the cost of education at Notre Dame have, of course, increased the need for such aid. 
Five residential-tuitional scholarsltips and 10 tuitional scholarships will be 



Notre Dame Dead in World War II 
{to. Odak^ f, m5) 
Supreme among the contributions of Notre Dame men to World War II is the contribution of those who gave the most they had to give—their lives. It is on that accoiint that the ALUMNUS, in its first issue after the war's ending, gives major emphasis to this listing of 277 men who once walked under the Dome. 
May their souls and the souls of all the faithful departed through the mercy of God rest in peace. Amen. 
William C. Adams. '42. 
Lookout Mountain. Tenn. Bobeit L. Aimone. '45, Leonia. N. J. Geoige E. Allingham. (ABC), '33. 

New York, N. Y. Jamas B. Ankehbruck. '46, Ft. Wayne. Ind. 
George W. BaU, '36, Caledonia, N. Y. Lawrence A. Barrett, '40, Valparaiso, Ind.^ Waller H. Barton, '44, Cicero. 111. James B. Bassett, '43, Toledo, O. Louis J. Bemish. '39.' Bochester, N. Y. John T. Bottaile, '44, Memphis. Tenn. 
. Charles F. Bebeau. '43. Muskegon. Mich. 
^ Hercules Bereolos. '42. Hammond. Ind. James P. Birder. '44. South Bend. Ind. George G. Birmingham. '46, Sioux City. la. John J. Bishop. '44. West Brighton. N. Y. ItCehael H. Brady. '45. Payne. O. Wlliam A. Brexenski. '46. Detroit. Mich. Edward J. Brockman, '45, Glencoe, III. John J. Burke, '38. Biver Forest. HI. Matthew A. Byrne. '42, New York, N. Y. 
Joseph P. Cagney. '46, Oak Park. HI. Bobert W. Caley, '46. Chicago. 111. Mortin T. CoUaghan. '47, Chicago, lU. Bobert J. Callahan. '46, River Forest, ni. Vito W. CoppeUo, '43, Brooklyn, N. Y. James L. Carroll. '40, Auburn, N. Y. Bichord J. CorrolL '37, Chicago, 111. Wells W. CarroU. '16. Plandome, N. Y. Edward F. Casey. '45, Philadelphia, Pa. John G. C<rsey, '41, Jordan, Minn. Henry B. Caudill, '41, Pawhuska. Okla. 
Jlrthilur J. Chadwick. '36, Amityville. N. Y. Joh E. Cbevigny, '31. Hammond. Ind.
/john Ambrose B. Clancy, '45, Brooklyn, N. Y. Fronds X. Clorice. '39. Chicago. 111. Edward T. Clarke. '39. Des Moines, la. Bichord J. Cood. '42. Green Bay, Wis. BoT. Aquinas T. Colgan. O.Carm.. 
Gr. St. 1933-36, Chicago, Bl. Jomes T. ConnelL '40, Newport, B. I. tiGIton E. Connelly, '43, Chicago, HI. Bobert L. Coram, '45. Indianapolis. Ind. Bichord J. Cotter, '44, Bay Shore. N. Y. John E. Cox, '43. East Haven. Conn. 
Thomas E. Creevy, '44, Chicago. QL Baymond E. Cronin. '47. Brighton, Mass. Louis F. Curran, Jr.. '44. Dorchester. Mass. Donald S. Currie. '45. Stapleton. N. Y. 
Charles H. Deger, '42. Dayton. O. Edward E. Delano. Jr.. '45. Chicago. BL Angelo DeMorco, '41, Chicago, 01. George B. Dempsey. '39. Oshkosh. Vfin. John P. Oenney. Jr.. '42. Chicago, BL Pierre B. de la Vergne. '38. 
New Orleans, Lo. Philip P. DeCrocco. '39. Stapleton. N. Y. Mark E. DeMots, '44, Minot N. D. John W. Disser, '34, Fort Wayne, Ind. Donald E. Dixon, '34, Cinonnaii, O. WiUiom F. Dold, '45, Glenridge, N. I. Theodore J. Dorosh. '48. Clifton Heights. Pa. Edward E. Doyle. '43. Morristown, N. J. Thomas J. Draper. '48, Los Angeles, ColiL 
, Kenneth E. Duffy. '43. Chicago. HI. 
V Edward J. Dunham. '44, Brooklyn, N. Y. Bobert L. Dunn, '44, Niles, ^Gch. Thomas F. Durldn, '37. Cleveland, O. 
George F. Eberhort. IH '46, 
Mishowoko. Ind. Norbert J. EUrott, '44. Albany. N. Y. AUen H. Elword, Jr.. '44. W. Lafayette, bid. 
Daniel P. Farley, '38. South Bend, Ind. 
William F. Fair, '33, Youngstown. O. 
A. Gerard ForrelL '34. Bochester. N. Y. Frank T. ForrelL '39, South Bend. Ind. 
v'Homer W. Ferguson, '41, Winslow, Aris. James J. Ferry. '41. Brazil. Ind. John P. Ffrench. '34, Astoria, N. Y. Bomoine M. Fiffe, '43, Solino. Eons. Bobert F. Finneron, '42, Columbus, O. 
John F. nnn, '35, San Antonio. Texas 
Bobert A. Fischer. '42. Wouwotoso. Wis. 
Ber. Patrick X. Flaherty. C£.V.. '34. 
South Boston. Moss. 
WniUom C Florence. '38. Cleveland, O. 
Jomes V. Flynn, '36. Washington. D. C. 
Joseph C. Foley. '37. Dallas, Texas 
Soger C. Foley. '41. Winthrop, Moss. 
William G. Foley. '41. Memphis, Tenn. 
Leo A. Fontono, '43. GoUipolis. O. 
Bobert E. Fordyce. '42. Gilmon, HI. 
Bichord E. Fox. '41. Fort Wayne. Ind. 
Williom M. Fox, '38, South Bend, bid. 

Bichord S. Freeman. '29, Winomac, lod. 
Bichord P. Froehlke, '45, Woucondo, BL 

Galond V. Funk, '44, Munde. Ind. 
Thomos F. Golvin. '46. Lawrence. Moss. Joseph T. Gibson. '46. Holyoke. Mass. Daniel Ginsburg. '47. Detroit, Mich. James H. Gillis. '46. Kane. Pa. Philip Eugene Golden. '40, Bichmond. Vo. James P. Grant. '46, S t Paul, Minn. Motthew B. "Dick" Gront '44, Freeport HI. Floyd C. Grazier. '39. Denver. Colo. John C. Grobmyer. '41, Corrollton, Ky. 
Jomes B. Hockner. '42, LoCrosse, Wis. Williom G. Holler. '42. Doylestown. O. George S. Homilton, '44, Elgin, HL \nncent F. Harrington. '25. Sioux City. la. Oliver P. Hellond. Jr.. '39. 
Wisconsin Dells, VTia. Mourice G. Heneoult '42, 
Donielson, Conn. Theodore M. Henke. '42. Oakmont Pa. John M. Hennessy, '41, Louisville, Ey. Boger H. Henry. '44, Valparaiso, Ind. 
Te Martyrum Candidatus 
Ah, see the fair chivalry come, the companions of Christ! 
White Horsemen, who ride on white horses, the Knights of God! They, for their Lord and their Lover who sacrificed All, save the sweetness of treading where He first trod! 
These through the darkness of death, the dominion of riight. Swept, and they woke in white places at morning tide: They saw with their eyes, and sang for joy of the sight. They saw with their eyes the Eyes of the Crucified. 
Now, whithersoever He goeth, with Him they go: • White Horsemen, who ride on white horses, oh fair to see! They ride, where the Rivers of Paradise flash and flow. White Horsemen, with Christ their Captain: for ever He! 
Lionel Johnson 

Leonard J. Henicres. '43, loke Forest 111. David B. Higgina. '45, Utiea. N. Y. William F. Kggins. '46. Youngstown. O. Leo S. Hillebrand. Ir„ '41. Toledo, O. Lester B. Hoch. '39. Fort Wayne. Ind. John H. Hogan. *45. Fort Wayne. Ind. Hershel G. Horton. '43. Aurora. HI. John M. Hughes. '31. lacksonville. Fla. Oaryl G. Huish. '47. Bedlands, Calii. 
/ Fronk B. Huisldng. '37. Huntington, N. Y. 
George B. lackman, '42, South Bend. Ind. Vincent J. Jasinsld. '34. Spring VaUey. N. Y. 
Paul I. Koshmer. '43. La Porte. Ind. Wayne H. Johnston. '47. Dallos. Texas John J. Kelley. m. '33. Eau Claire. Wis. John B. Eeane. '45. Watertown. Mass. Daniel B. Kelly. '39. Forest IBlls. N. Y. Fergus F. Kelly. '37. Jamaica, N. Y. Omer A. Kelly. '38, Algona, la. Bichard B. Kelly. Jr.. '40, Lorain, O. Jeremiah J. ffilUgrew. '42. Hobarf. Ind. Edward L. Kinn. '46. Fostoria. O. John F. Kinsman. '45. Eau Claire. Wis. Louis L. Knet '44. Maywood, HI. Bobert W. Kneeland. '46. Postville. la. Theodore J. Knusman, '38, Oak Park. HI. 
, Walter J. Koness. '43. Chicogo, HI. «/ William J. Kuntz. '41. Waterloo. Ont.. Can. 
Jonh A. La Grou. '45, Detroit. Mich. Patrick J. Lambert. '46. Argo, 111. Edmund L. Leach. '45. Golf, 01. Chorles D. Leckie, '47, Minneapolis, Minn. Joseph E. Leising, '39, Bufialo, N. Y. Lawrence P. Leonard. Jr.. '46, 
Toronto. Ont. Canoda Bobert J. Letscher. '41, Port Arthur, Texas Charles T. Lewis. '43, Philadelphia, Pa. Gordon A. Love. '41. BuHalo. N. Y. 
James P. Mahoney. '27. Bawlins. Wyo. Francis M. Mcdoney. '45. Louisville, Ky. Dewey C. Mann. '45. South Bend. Ind. Joseph A. Mariano. Jr.. '29, 
New BocheUe. N. Y. Corlo J. MarineUo. '37. BuHalo. N. Y. VmUam P. Marsh. '41. Hines. Ore. Patrick B. Moschke. '44. Tyrone, Pa. Quintin Mason, '47, St Paul, Minn. Newton L. Mathews. '36. Chicago, III. Joseph A. Matson, '42. Bolivar, N. Y. Edwin B. Matthews. '46. S. Orange. N. J. Hugh F. McCaifery. '27. Hempstead. N. Y. Joseph P. McCaiiery. '28, Chester. Pa. John J. McCloskey. '36. 
West Philadelphia. Pa. Donald C. McDonald, '39, Waukegan, U. William B. McDonald, Jr.. '44. 
San Mateo, Calii. Maurice J. McElligott, '26. Evanston. IlL Arnold J. McGrath, '22, Chicago, HI. John J. McGiimis, Jr. '44, Chicago, IlL Hugh F. McHugh, '44, New York. N. Y. William J. Mcjonldn. '42, Wlnnetko, IlL Donald B. McKay. '36. Fargo. N. D. Edward D. McKim. '43. Omaha. Nebr. James C McGoldrick. '43, Johnstown. Pa. Oliver K. McMohon. '38. 
Bockville Centre. N. Y. 
Baymond J. McMonus. '42. 
Indianapolis, Ind. 
Donald B. McNaUy. '42. Winnetka. DL 
Thomas J. McQuaid. '46. Bochester, N. Y. 
Francis E. Metzgar, '42, Seattle, Wash. 
John A. Miller, '43, South Bend, Ind. 
Matthew J. Miller. '42, Chicago, DL 
Alexander J. Milone, '45, Brooklyn. N. Y. 
Fred L. Morris, '35, Mexico, Mo. 
James L. Mulcahy, '38, Taunton. Mass. ' 
Francis M. Murphy, '44. Los Ange!es, Calii 
George E. Mtuphy, '43, South Bend. Ind. 
John B. Murphy. '41. Emigrant Mont 
Patrick E. Murphy, '45, S t Cloud, ICnn. 
William C. Murphy. '33, tCddletown. Conn. 
Bichard L. Novak. '29, Cliiton. N. J. 
James J. O'Brien. '41, Elmhurst N. Y. 
Joseph A. 03rien. '40, Springfield. Mass. 
William P. 03rien, '40, Biver Forest lU. 
George M. O'Connor, '43, Chicago. IlL 
Charles H. CDonnell. '40, Gary, Ind. 
Thomas F. ©"NeiU, '30, Albany, N. Y. 
Martin Gordon CBeilly, Jr., '42, 
Chicago, 111. Stephen F. CBotuke. '44. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Horry J. Osborne. Jr., '45, Elgin. lU. Bartholomew D. O'Toole, '37, Chicago. DL Bobert J. O'Toole. '39. Pittsburgh. Pa. • George S. Owens. '32, Lockport N. Y. 
Bobert G. Perry. '46. Harrisburg. BL Joseph J. PetiUo. '47. Asbury Park. N. J. 
Edward H. Phelan. Jr. '40, Whittier. Calii Francis W. Fieri '40. Mahanoy City. Pa. Eugene A. Polleto, '49, Clinton. Ind, 
John S. Powers, '41, Ingalls. Ind. 
Joseph P. Prendergast '36. Ware, Mass. Heiuy C. Priester. Jr„ '43, Davenport lo. 
John L. Probst '47, Sheldon, la. Paul E. PurceU. '40. Salt Lake City. Utah 
Francis V. Quackenbusb, '38, 
Albany, N. Y. James J. Quinn. '36. Columbia. Pa. Morgon Jerome Quiim, '44, 
Washington. D. C 
Charles E. Beynolds, '41, Mt CarmeL BL 
J. vmiiam Beynolds. '43. Asheville, N. C Ambrose L Bice, '38, South Bend. Ind. Joseph F. BUey. '37, Weston. W. Va. John W. Boach, Jr„ '38, Muscatine, la. 
John F. Bogam. '40. Newark. N. J. 
Comdr.-in-Cliiei FnmUin O. 
BooMveH, lU X '35. WdsUnstoB. D. C 
Edward A. Bowan. '45. S t Lonia, Mo. 
Thomas F. Rnckalahaaa, '28, 
bdianapoBa. bid. 
John L. Byder. '45. Hudson FaUa. N. Y. 
^Bichard A. Schiltz. '43. Billings, Mont 
Frands A. Schmied. '40. Columbus. VRM. 
Bobert S. Schoisch. '39. Chicago. BL 
Cletus N. Schommer, Gr. St. 1938-40. 
S t PooL IkGnn. 
Bobert E. Schoo. 't3, LouisviUe, Ky. 
Edward J. Schreiber, '41, Bochester. JCiui. 
Joseph B. Sefaroeder, '31, 
ICnneapoIia, BGnn. 
James C Schullheis, '41. Vineaimes. bid, 
Anthony J. Seaman. '40, GreenviUe. S. C 
Otto J. Seiiert ]ir« '43. New Uhn. ICnii. 
Thomas J. Sengon. '39. Easton. Pa. . 
Jacob P. Sevdk. '33. Klmnath Falls. Ore. 
John W. Shea. '40. Ponghkeepsie. N. Y. 
Baymond J. Shea, '35, Spfingfield, Mass. 
James E. Sheets, '45, Ashland. O. 
Joseph M. Shields. '42. 
Pelham Manor. N. Y. Bobert I. Simonds. '38. South Bend. Ind. Arthur C Smith. '33, Chicago, BL John W. Smith. '41. West Winfiald. N. Y. Uonel Vi O. Smith. '33. Buiiolo. N. Y. Neal D. Smith, '41, Paw Paw, Mcfa. Bobari G. Smilh. '42. JoHet BL WiUiam C Sparks. '44, Alton. BL Norbert J. Spencer. '40, Indianapolis. Bid. John F. Spcagne. '43. Suimynde. Wash. Arthur F. Staneati. '46. Bed Bank, N. J. Chorles D. Stapleton, '41, Brooklyn. N. Y. Archie C Strang, Jr. '43. Anacondo. Mont Timothy Joseph Stulb, '39, Augusta, Go. Bobert F. Sugnet '41. BuHalo. N. Y. Daniel J. Sullivan. '36. Springfield. Mass. Harold B. Sweeney. '40, 
Pelham Manor. N. Y. 
Bobert D. VanderHorst '42. Celina. O. James B. Veeneman. '40. Chicago. BL John T. Von Hars. '40. Crystal Lake, BL 
Ignatius B. Walker, '46. VRnchester. BL Albert A. WaUace. '32. Davenport la. John E. Walsh. Jr. '39. Chicago. BL John K. Walsh, '43. Denver, Colo. George C WasseO. '31, Pittsburgh. Pa. Douglas C Weaver. '40.'ICamisburg, O. George W. Weber, '40. Cleveland, O. Thomas J. Webster. '40. tCshawako. Lad. John J. Whelan, '43. Bloomfield. N. J. Joseph W. Whelan. '27, Grantwoed. N. J. Peter LaviaUe Whelan. '42. Henderson. Ky. John H. Vnechman. '43. Covington. Ky. Balph G. ^mngfield. '40. Lynchburg, Va. Jerome T. Witzman. '45. St Bernard. O. George A. WoU. '39. HoUidoysburg, Pa. George M. WoUe. '44. S t Albans. N. Y. John K. WoUL '44. Baleigh. N. C. WilHom B. Wright '42. South Bend. had. 
George H. Yaagar. ft- '45. Boonoln, Vs. 
Eugene M. Zupke, '44. Perth Ambey. N. I. 


Notre Dame and the Atom Bomb 
With the return to the faculty of Dr. Bernard Waldman, Notre Dame physi­cist who was released for special govern­ment research and who was one of the scientists who flew over Hiroshima to study the eifects of the atomic bomb, attention is again focused on Notre Dame's part in this world phenomenon. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, at the recent quarter­ly meeting of the Alumni Board, stressed the hope of the University for peace time development of the principle rather than its devastating use as a weapon of war. His article on science in this issue repre­sents Notre Dame's aims. 
Concerning the atomic bomb and Notre Dame's part in it, the following text was released by the University publicity department: 
"The world of tomorrow can look for­ward to limitless peacetime possibilities of atomic energy such as is used in the new devastating atomic bomb which has just been unloosed upon Japan, according to Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, dean of the graduate school of the University of Notre Dame, in commenting upon ths University's contribution in the atomic research that has led to the development of the bomb. 
"The United States government has clamped a lid of secrecy upon the Notre Dame activities in connection with the atomic research, but Father Moore said that while the University's facilities were not used in the development of the atomic bomb itself, our research facilities played an important part in the un­locking of the riddle of the atom. 
"Three other Notre Dame men, in addition to Father Moore, have been highly instrumental in the atomic re­search program at the university. They are: Rev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C, head of the Department of Physics at Notre Dame; Dr. Marcellus Wiedenbeck, who completed his graduate work at Notre Dame; and Dr. Bernard Waldman. 
"Although Father Moore and his asso­ciates are not permitted to disclose the methods which they used in their con­tribution to the atomic project, on which thousands of scientists all over the coun­try have been working at a cost of more than ?2,000,000,000, it is a fact that be­fore the war Notre Dame was complet­ing the construction of a mammoth electrostatic generator capable of bom­barding atoms with 8,000,000 volts of electricity. 
"In pointing out tremendous postwar applications to atomic energy. Doctor Wiedenbeck revealed that if the atomic energy stored in a thimble full of water should be converted into energy, the re­sulting power could run a 20-horsepower engine, or a small automobile, for the next 2,000 years. Moreover, he revealed, less than a quart of water conceivably would be the only fuel needed to power a giant ocean liner—the Queen Mary, for instance—on a voyage around the world. 
"In the field of power alone, empha­sized Dr. Wiedenbeck, the release of energy from atoms is so far-reaching that it simply staggers the imagination. Power would be practically without value; a new social and economic order would have to be constructed. But power would be only one of the postwar ap­plications. It would seem that a vast quantity of new radio-active substances 
•will be made available for the treatment of such malignant diseases as cancer. Such substances would enormously in­crease our limited supplies of radium and would be far cheaper. 
"One of the most important parts of developing atomic energy. Father Moora stated, was the development of the knowledge of how to control the process. Without control, he said, production of atomic energy would be useless. 'And it is only natural that Notre Dame should be interested in atomic research-As a center of scientific research, the university became interested in this problem and installed unique facilities. After the war started, it continued its research.' 
"The University of Notre Dame, then, played an important part in the research leading to the development of the atomic bomb. But scientists at the University are going even further; they are con­tinuing their research in the energy-development and controls toward a better peacetime era." 
BISHOP CROWLEY DIES 
A press-time* bulletin brings news of the death on Oct. 2, of Most Rev. Timo­thy J. Crowley, C.S.C, D.D., '02, for many years Bishop of Dacca, in the province of Bengal, India. Bishop Crow­ley was bom in 1880, and was conse­crated Bishop of Dacca in May of 1927. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
UNIVERSAL N.D. COMMUNION 


SUNDAY SET FOR DECEMBER 9 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, when . all Local Clubs should plan simultaneous Club Masses and Com­munion Breakfasts, will, as previously announced by the Board of Directors of the Association, be observed on Decem­ber 9. Its conjunction with the Feast of the Immaculate Conception is, as you recall, not coincidence, but filled with significance for Notre Dame men, par­ticularly in the United States where Our Lady's patronage has brought so many favors. 
This 1945 Sunday marks the first uni­versal opportimity to give thanks to God and Our Lady for the end of the war, to ask her intercession for the 277 Notre Dame men who lost their lives in this war in the armed forces under her pa­tronage, and to ask God and His Blessed Mother to bless and preserve the hard won peace. 
With conditions of meeting much more favorable, and with' the return of many Club members from the armed forces, the Alumni Board looks forward in 1945 to a more universal observance of the Communion Sunday, instituted in 1938 by the Notre Dame club of New York. 
With priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross stationed throughout the United States, and with travel conditions relaxed somewhat, this 1945 Sunday should find most of the Masses and Com­munion Breakfasts attended by a famil­iar priest from the campus. The Alunrni Office will of course assist in such ar­rangements whenever a Club so wishes. 
The great spiritual significance of Notre Dame should be the highlight of these annual Communion Sundays, in theme and publicity. This leaves Univer­sal Notre Dame Night, in its annual April observance, to stress the academic and the cultural phases of the Univer­sity. 
NEW SEMESTER NOV. 5 
Enrollment for the new semester, starting Nov. 5, is heavier than antici­pated, with 800 pre-registered, 929 Navy students promised in the R.O.T.C. and V-12, and a new-and-retum enrollment of approximately 700. The Midshipmen's School will graduate its final class on Nov. 2, having trained more than 10,000 officers since its origin in October, 1942, on the Notre Dame campus. Residence facilities, except Carroll, are nearly filled. The University does not plan to open Carroll for the semester. 




Report to the Alumni Assodation 
By REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. President of the University 
It is a source of satisfaction to the president of any university to observe the continuing vital interest of alumni in the welfare of their Alma Mater. When that interest takes the substantial form of participation in the Annual Alumni Fund to the extent of ?111,405.­56, the satisfaction is deep indeed. This generous sum in a critical period will not only safeguard the advances that Notre Dame has made recently, but it will also help to smooth the way during the difficult time of reconversion which we are now beginning. 
In accordance with its understanding with the officers of the Alumni Associa­tion, the administration has allocated the fund to definite undertakings which in its judgment will enhance the aca­demic prestige of the University, as shown in the following statement: 
Operation of the Alumni Association: 
All alumni have taken pride in the administration of the Association under its executive secretary, James E. Arm­strong, and his assistant, William R. Dooley. It should be noted that the operating cost of §35,589.31 is for 17 months—^the unusual period having been caused by a change in the fiscal year. 
Aside from rendering assistance to individual alumni as well as to local clubs, and advancing the program adopt­ed by the directors more than a year ago, the Association has been of great help to the University itself through student promotion and its fostering of good public relations. An enterprise as vital deserves strong financial support. 
The staif in the Alumni Office was necessarily increased in order to keep abreast of additional work caused by the University's wartime regime. The Office has been exceedingly valuable to the president in maintaining contact with alumni and students in service through questionnaires, letters, and other media. 
The books of the Association are audited annually in accordance with the best business practice. 
The Graduate School: 
You have heard me stress repeatedly the necessity of strengthening the Grad­uate Division because of what it means the deficit did not become too heavy— 
to Notre Dame's academic prestige. and. it became heavy enough. Once 
During the war this division was affect­again the Alumni Fond proved invalu­
ed, as were other graduate schools able. The school itself made changes 
throughout the country. Money provided to insure greater economy, a fact that 
by the Alumni, Association—$12,000 will gratify the large nomher of alnmni 
from the Centenary Fund and $9,000 who are g^iadnates of this historic 
from the current one—^has aided materi­college. 
ally in the purchase of research equip­
ment and the publication of studies of 
Tlia James A. Bams Scliolarslups 
vital importance to the division. The James A. Boms Scholarships, the details of which are published elsewhere 
The Library Fund in this issue of the Alumnus, are in keep­
I need say nothing about the im­ing with the Notre Dame tradition of 
portance of the University Library and helping the poor, talented boy get an 
the departmental libraries except to re­education. It is fitting that they should 
peat that no library is complete so long be in memory of Father Boms, because 
as there is progress. Were it not for 'he was once such a boy to whom Notre 
the generosity of alumni, the handicaps Dame gave a helping hand more than 
imposed by the war years would have half a century ago. Father Boms never 
been much more difficult to overcome. forgot, and as the years passed, bring­
I consider the allocation of $20,000 to ing him honor and distinction as an 
the libraries one of the best investments educator, he remained one of the strong­
that the University can make. est advocates of the tradition of which 
he was a product, giving similar aid to 
Emergency Fund for the College countless numbers of boys who otherwise 
of Law would not have had the advantages of 
a Notre Dame education. 
The law schools of the country have been academic casualty No. 1. Re­membering, however, that ours is the You will observe that in commenting' oldest of Catholic law schools in the on the second Annmd Alnmni Fund, I United States, the administration deter­have referred as well to allocations from, mined that it would survive the war if the Centenary Fund, as reported in the 
TOTAL SECOND ALUMNI FUND PARTICIPATION $ 111,405.56 Balance from last report (February, 1944, 'Alumnus') 785.92 
112,191.48 Less difference between maturity value and present cash value of United States Savings Bonds con­stituting part of this Fund ,- 5,181.25 Less special purpose gifts of 25,350.00 30.531.25 
Net cash available for distribution 81.660.23 
1.
 Expenses connected with the operation of the Alumni Association from (August 1, 1943) Janu­ary, 1944, to December, 1944 35,589.31 

2.
 The Graduate School of the University (Research Equipment) . 9,750.00 

3.
 Library Fund, for both the University and de­partmental libraries ... . — 20,000.00 

4.
 Emergency Fund for the College of Law. 5,250.00­

5.
 James A. Bums Scholarships — 10.000.00 80,589.31 


Available for future use $ 1,070^2 Alumnus for February, 1944. It occurs to me that I should mention two other projects which the Centenary Fund has supported. 
The first is the faculty fund for ad­vanced study, to which $10,000 was al­located. This fund has already made possible advanced studies of four faculty members at the Universitj' of Michigan, Catholic University, the California Insti­tute of Technology, and the University of Notre Dame. When these men have received their doctorates they will return to the University as specialists in their fields to further strengthen the faculty. I hope there will be enough money left to underwrite expenses for at least four more faculty members. 
The second is the provision for travel expenses for faculty representation at meetings of learned societies, educational gatherings, and other important aca­demic events. Attendance at such meet­ings is a necessity to any university that wishes to keep abreast of the best in academic progress.­
On behalf of all who are charged with conducting Notre Dame's affairs, I take this opportunity to thank the alumni who came to Notre Dame's assistance during a critical period. As I said on a previous occasion, what holds the bright­est promise for the University's future is the growing realization that their continued support is an essential part of Notre Dame's growth and develop­ment. The phrase "alumni participa­tion" has a broader and deeper meaning than we sometimes attach to it. Notre Dame's growth is not an end in itself, but a means to • one great end; the preservation and dissemination of the Christian culture which is our common heritage and our common hope. 
A final word: No head of any uni­versity could have had a more loyal and devoted Alumni Board than Notre Dame has had during this critical period. I make public acknowledgment of sincere gratitude to Mr. Thomas Byrne, nation­al president, the other officers and directors for serving Alma. Mater so faithfully. Their warm support of the administration's policy has brought joy to me and my associates. 
Respectfully submitted, Kev. J. HUGH, O'DONNELL, C.S.C , President of the University. 


GIFT FROM BURT 

Lt. Herbert J. Burt, USNR., '26, has presented to the University Library the first fifty issues of the file of Tlie Naval News, published on Guam, July 25 to Sept. 12, 1945. 
Financial Report of the University 
Dear Friends of Notre Dame: 

In accordance with established practice, the University presents here­with its statement of operations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1944, as prepared by Pearson and Dwyer, certified public accountants. 111 West Monroe St., Chicago, 111.: 
OPERATIONS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED lUNE 30. 1944 
RECEIVED: From tuition and student fee*: TJ^. Navy: interest on genercd endowment; returns from scholarships; and from all auxiliary operations, including athletics $5,002,523.56 
PAID OUT: For the operations of all colleges of the University— Arts and Letters. Science, Law. Engineering, and Commerce (including odmlnistraiiTe ond faculty sal­aries, pensions, etc.) as irell as operation of the Graduate School- for interhall athletics, student activ­ities, and publications; for operotion of residence halls, dining halls, infirmary, lonndry, Rockne Memor­ial, golf course, and general maintenance 4.989.809,37 
NET GAIN FROM UNIVERSITY AND AUXnJABY OPERATIONS: (including endowment income) $ 12.714.19 
OTHER INCOME: From miscellaneous sources, exduslve of University and auxiliary operations (interest on investments, profit from sale of securities, bad debt recoveries, property rentals, etc.) ., 37.537.54 
NET CREDIT TO SURPLUS: To be used for purchase of new laboratory equip­ment additions to libraries, for research, graduate departments, etc. $ 50.251.73 
While the administration is deeply It should be noted, however, that our grateful to God for such a successful very happy and cordial relationship with operation. It is also mindful of the ex­the U.S. Navy is on a purely cost basis, cellent cooperation it received from fac­and not cost plus. Mr. Dwyer directs my ulty and students as well as the various attention to this particularly, and stres­department heads. It has been no easy ses the fact that since the program per­task to administer the affairs of a pri­mits the recovery of established costs vately-controlled university during such only, "no profit as such is realized from a critical period, but the burden has the operation," to use his own words. 
been greatly lightened by the sympa­
thetic understanding and helpfulness of Within the next few months I hope to all those who belong to the family of be able to publish our operating state­Notre Dame. ment for the year ending June .30, 1945, which has been understandably delayed 
Extended comment on the report, I be­because of the unusual demands made lieve, is unnecessary. The small amount by the war effort on our Accounting De­credited to surplus only serves to empha­partment. size the need of increasing our endow­ment in order that.our plans, postwar,' 
Sincerely, 

for both the graduate and the under­J. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. graduate divisions may be realized. 
President of the University 



NEW RELIGION HEAD NEW SOUTH BEND PASTOR 
Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch, C.S.C, '36, Rev. James J. O'Brien, C.S.C, '1.3, is assistant prefect of religion, has been the new pastor of St. Patrick's Parish, South Bend, succeeding Rev. Patrick H. 
appointed acting head of the Department Dolan, C.S.C, '15, who resigned becau.<;e 
of Religrion in the University. Father of ill health. Father O'Brien, a former Simonitsch succeeds Rev. Louis Kelley, 
assistant pastor at St. Patrick's, had C.S.C, new assistant superior general 
lately been on the faculty of St. Edward's of the Congregation of Holy Cross. University, Austin, Texas. 


War Veterans Come to the Campus 
By JOHN DEFANT* 

The Men Who Fousht in World War II Wattt To Be Inte-
Srated With Other Students Despite Difficulties; Writer 
Says that Readjustment Is "Ridiculously Overemphasized" 
For two years, Navy (and Marine) trainees were in the majority in tlie Notre Dame student body. But, assigned to their own residence halls under navy discipline and training and having only limited contact with civilian students in scholastic activities and extra-curricular activities, the trainees were, of neces­sity, a "group apart." 
Now, with the transition from war to peace, and with civilian students once again in the majority in the student body, the University is experiencing an influx of a special group of students who, generally are homologous in their aims, purposes and outlook. These are the re­turning war veterans, studying at Notre Dame under the provisions of the G. I. Bill of Eights or the Veterans' Kehabil­itation Act. 
But, a "group apart" though they may be to some limited extent, the vet­erans, unlike the trainees, can readily be integrated with the remainder of the civilian student boy. And such integra­tion is in line with the wishes of the ma­jority of the veterans themselves. 
It must be admitted that many of the veterans would like to have some privi­leges not granted other civilian students, such as later hours and more independ­ence of action. But at the same time most veterans realize that were the vet­erans to be granted special privileges they would then become, definitely, a "group apart"; real integration with the remainder of the civilian student body would be lost. 
And so the veterans go on in the Notre Dame pattern, adapting them­selves as quickly as they can to the tra­ditional Notre Dame regulations. 
The veterans, however, are faced with some special problems. Much has been written and said about the difficulties confronting veterans returning to civil­ian life and to school, but the arm-chair psychologist who look upon them as high-strung individuals who must be tenderly readjusted to civilian life have ridiculously overemphasized the matter. They overlook the fact that the return to the comforts, freedom and more nat­ural mode of life of the civilian will be accomplished vnth ease. After all, com­pared to the conversion to the rigors of service life and war to^vhich the service­men adjusted themselves, the "reconver­sion" problem is a simple one. Certain­ly the veterans at Notre Dame have slipped into the college routine without undue difficulty. The veteran gets along as well as, or better than, the student who has not had the experience of sen^­ice life. 
There are some at Notre Dame of course, who could not make the gnrado and dropped out of school, but the per­centage does not run much highsr than that of students who have never been in service. Nor do their reasons for with­drawing from college differ much from those of other students: they lack the necessary academic preparation, have no self-discipline, or simply do not like col­lege. Some, of course, have been forced out by poor physical condition. 
The difficulties of the veterans en­rolled in college crop up daring the first few months after their return to schooL Two, they face immediately: they have forgotten how to study after an absence of several years, and they feel a strange­ness in their new surroundings that is common to all freshmen, but augment­ing the strangeness, is the added "years of the veterans, which, they feel, set them apart from their younger class­mates. The emotion engendered by their age is dissipated when they discover that they are still pretty much like the other fellows. The inability to concentrate they can overcome only by giving more time to their studies; after a few months of intensive application to their books they find their studies no more difScolt than other students do. In fact, some of the veterans contoid that the intermptioii of their education was beneficial because they learned to attach a greater im­portance to it.' 
The 111 veterans now at Notre Dame have already taken steps to mitigate the diificulties of those who will enroll in 
(Continoed on Pmge 13) 

A small group of the Teterana who attended the Veteran*' Clab Csamanic»-bcedE> 
(*John Defant, a freshman from. fast ot Notre Dame in September. Left to right are: lerMM W. Wayno. Detroit dnb vice-Wierton, West Virginia, was in the president. Thomas McCdfierr. VaUeie. Calii. ^XnUiaM T. SnauMrlin. Sorannidk Go. Army from November, 1941, to Novem­MKUiam P. Gill, Toledo. Mathew J. Siedledi, Camden. N. I. Rank P. Sdieno. HewoA. ber, 1944. He spent two years in Eng­N. J., Joseph N. Hood. Bochester. N. Y. Pool S. Hnaor. Jerwr CHr. N. J. Thomas JL Potter. land.—Eds.) Kearny. N. U and Phil E. Callan. Bochester. N. T.. dob pnsidenL 
Leyte, Dec. 31,1944; Lt. John W. Smith, ex. '41, West Winfield, N. Y., killed in a
FOR GOD. COUNTRY. NOTRE DAME 
plane crash at the Army Air Base, Greenville, S. C., on Jan. 29, 1944; Lt. 
IN GLORy EVERLASTING 
Robert E. Schoo, ex. '43, Louisville, Ky., 
Qointin Maaon Jim O'Brien 

Lt. Quintin Mason, USMCS, St. Paul, Minn., was killed in action on Okinawa, three-quarters of a mile north of Naha, on May 5. He had been in the Marine V-12 program at Notre Dame for two semesters. 
Quintin has been recommended for a Bronze Star award. Surviving him are his parents, three brothers and one sister. 
Sgt. Jaaiet J. O'Brien, Jr., '41, Elm­hurst, N. Y., met a tragic death in a train wreck near Weingarten, Ger­many, while en route to a port of em­barkation on July 13. 
Jim was graduated magna cum laude and at the time of his induction, in May 1942, was employed by the KoUsman Instrument Company in Elmhurst. He was a member of the reconnaissance and intelligence group of the headquar­ters company, 65th Armored Infantry Battalion. He received a citation and the Bronze Star medal for conspicuous service at Biherbach, Germany, on April 29. 
Jim leaves his wife, his infant daugh­ter, his parents, a brother, Donald J., '29, and four sisters. 
Capt. Roger H. Henry, ex. '44, Val­paraiso, Ind., was killed in an airplane crash in India-on July 29, 1945. Roger-was a student in the law school 
Baser Beniy Marts De Hots when he enlisted in the air corps on Dec. 8, 1941. His parents survive him. 

Cpl. Mark E. DeMots, ex. '44, Minot, 

N. Dak., died on July 30 of bums re­ceived in a vehicle accident in La Fere, France. 
Mark had been overseas since Janu­ary, 1944, and had been a radar oper­ator of the Ninth Air Force, the 19th Tactical Air Force and the Third Army. He won five battle stars and his unit of 15 men had received two citations. With his parents, Mark leaves a sister who is married to Thomas E. Duffy, '32, and a brother, John E. DeMoU, '37. 
Mark was inducted into service in June 1943, while a student in law. He enlisted in 1942 under the E.R.C. pro­gram. 
Pvt. James Bassett, ex. '43, Toledo, Ohio, died July 19, 1942, of malaria in 
Jim Bassett 

a Japanese prison camp in the Philip­pine Islands. He had been missing in action since May 7, 1942, following the surrender of Corregidor. 
Jim was wounded in action on Dec. 
10, 1941, and returned to duty March 11 the next year. He had enlisted in April 1941, and the following fall he volun­teered for service in Hawaii. Two days before Pearl Harbor, he notified his .father, of his transfer to. the Philippines. 
Jim's father died last October with­
out knowing the fate of his son. Other 
members of his family are his twin 
brother, another brother and two sisters. 
The ALUMNUS has so far received only incomplete information regarding the following Notre Dame men who died in the service of their country: Lt. Cmdr. John M. Hughes, '31, Jackson­ville, Pla., killed in a plane crash on September -28, near Kingsland, Ga.; Major Carlo J. Marinello, ex. '37, Buf­falo, N. Y., died of wounds received on killed in a plane crash Aug. 5, 1945, near El Paso, Texas; Sgt. Francis M. Maloney, ex. '45, Louisville, Ky.; Daniel Ginsbnrg, USMCR, ex. '47, Detroit, killed in action on Two Jima; Pfc Joseph 
J. Petillo, USMCR, ex. '47, Asbury Park, 
N. J., killed in action on Okinawa, April 13, 1945. 
1st Lt. William G. Haller, ex. '42, 

Doylestown, Ohio, was killed Nov. 5, 
1944, on a mission 
over Germany while 
leading a squadron 
of the 94th Bomb­
ing Group. 
A pilot of a B-17, 
Bill had been in ser­
vice since 1942 and 
held the Air Medal 
with three clusters, 
the Distinguished 
Flying Cross with BiU Haller 

one cluster and the Presidential Citation with one cluster. A wife and small daughter living in Cadiz, Ohio, survive Bill, as well as a brother in the Navy, another brother and the parents. 

Missing in Action 
Lt. (jg) Robert T. Browne, '38, Medi­cal Corps, USNR, Peoria, HI., is miss­ing in action since last October in the Philippines. For his extreme courage in the second battle of the Philippines, Bob received the Navy Cross. He re­mained aboard the USS Johnston after the abandon ship order was given, sup­plying injured men with life jackets and ministering to the wounded in the face of terrific salvos from hostile gun bat­teries. His brother. Bill, is a '37 grad­ate. 
2nd Lt. John R. HarUock, '39, of Altoona, Pa., a navigator with the AAF, has been missing over Japan since Dec. 18, 1944. 

Deaths Already Reported 
(This section contains additional inform motion about Notre Dame men whose deaths in the armed forces were reported in earlier issues of the ALUMNUS. 
Lt George S. Owens, USNR, '32, Lockport, N. Y., was killed in action on May 1, 1945, aboard the U. S . S. Terror, off the northwest coast of Oki­nawa when the ship, while in port, was stmck by a suicide plane. He leaves his wife, a son and a daughter, his mother and a brother and sister. 
George entered the service in March, 1943, and reported for duty in April at Babson University, Mass. He was at the Mare Island Navy Yard in Califor­
Geor^e Owens Ed Klnn 

nia as assistant supply oflScer from May, 1943 to November, 1944. For several years, prior to his service in the Navy, he was purchasing agent for the Pitts­burgh Metallurgical Company, Niagara Falls, N. Y. 
Lt. Edward L. Kinn, ex. '46, Fostoria, O., was killed in action in Germany, April 
18. Ed was wounded in the Aachen drive in Germany on Oct. 30, 1944, but he returned to active service in March 1945. He was awarded the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star and the Com­bat Infantryman's Badge. 
Lt. John J. Bishop, USMCR, ex. '44, West Brighton, S. I., N. Y., was killed Nov. 20, 1944, when his S.B.D. Daunt­less dive-bomber crashed into the sea on a flight from Henderson Field, Guadal­canal. John went overseas in the fall of 1943, and he and his squadron members, flying B-24 Liberators, were the first white men to see Truk, the great Japa­nese naval base, on reconnaissance mis­sions. 
John completed two years at Notre Dame and then volunteered as a Navy V-5 aviation cadet. He trained at Chapel 
John Bishop Georse Teaser 

Hill, N. C, Hutchinson, Kans., and Cor­pus Christi, Texas, where he was com­missioned a second lieutenant in the Ma­rine Corps. 
S/Sgt. George Yeager, Jr., ex. '45, Roanoke, Va., was killed in-action on July 16, 1944 in a bombing raid over Europe. A bombardier in the Eighth Air Force, George escaped death in May 1944, when his bomber exploded over the English Channel. Eight other flyers perished and George and one other man, who had bailed out before the explo­sion, survived in the icy channel waters for several hours. 
George entered the service in March 1943. He took preliminary training as pilot • at San Antonio, Texas, trans­ferred to gunner at Las Vegas, Nev., and finished with his crew at Sioux City, la. 
Lt. Edmund L. Leach, USMCR, ex. '45, Golf, m., was killed by a sniper's bullet on Iwo Jima on March 3. He is survived by his parents and a brother. 
RoKCr 

Ed enlisted in the Marine Detach­ment of the Navy V-12 program in January, 1942, while he was a student at Loyola University, Chicago. In March 1944, he was sent to Parris Island for boot training and was then sent to Camp LeJeune and commissioned a second lieu­tenant in September, 1944. In November he was sent to the Hawaiian Islands and placed in the Fifth Marine Division. 
Pfc. John Roger Keane, ex. '45, Wat­ertown, Mass., was killed in action on Nov. 20, 1944, near Immendorf, Ger­many. 
Roger went overseas in September, 1944, from Fort Dix, N. J. He had been called into service in April, 1942, and re­ceived his basic training at Camp Bland­ing, Fla. Assigned to the A.S.T.P. at Georgetown University when the pro­gram was discontinued, he completed his training in the infantry at Camp Swift, Texas. 
WAR VETERANS 

(Continaed from Fase 11) ensuing semesters. The Veterans' Chib is setting up an orientatian program which it hopes to have in operation by the start of the next semester, on No­vember 6, when a total enrollment of . oyer 300 veterans is expected. Under-the plan, members of .the dab will assist the incoming veterans in any way pos­sible, especially in tutoring and in the sponsoring of social functions where they can meet their fellow students and become more readily accustomed to col­lege life. 
Although organized just at the end 
of last semester, the Veterans' Club has 
already assumed a position of leadership 
on the campus. When Frank Syzmanski. 
a veteran himself, resigned from the 
football team because of the recent Big 
Ten ruling declaring ineligible all per­
sons who had signed contracts with pro­
fessional teams, the dub immediately set 
to work, not only because the ruling af­
fected a Notre Dame player, hut because in its working out the rule would so largely affect veterans. Letters pointing, cut the sEeming unfairness of the retro­active ruling were sent to sports com­mentators, sports writers, the Veterans Administration, and veterans' dnbs at other universities. By marshaling public opinion against the ruling, the Veterans' Club hopes to have it altered. 
The dub has been active not only so­cially, but also spiritually. The first Communion breakfast at Nctre Dame since the start of the war was held, fit­tingly enough, by the veterans on Sep­tember 9. They offered up their Com­munion for the 269 Notre Dame men who, up to then, bad died in the armed forces in World War II. 
There can be no doubt that returning veterans will be an important factor in campus activities for the next haU-dec­ade. Ranging in age from 19 to 30 and already accustomed to assuining leader­ship and responsibilities, the veterans have.the training and willingness to lead. Their-more mature outlook^on life forged . in the bloody years of war may add a new ing^redient to the spirit of Notre Dame. 

AT N. D. 60 YEARS 

Rev. Bernard J. HI, C.S.C, professor of German, oldest active member of the Notre Dame faculty, on Sept. 5 observed the 60th anniversary of his arrival at the University. He began teaelung al, Notre Dame in 1887, before his ordina­tion in 1894. Father HI has witnessed the erection of every private-room.ren­dence hall on the campus. 



Third Animal Alumni Fund 
Contributions, July I, 1945 to September I, 1945 
As in the previous Alumni Funds, the alumni contributions represent alumni gifts direct to the University, through the Alumni Association, or through the Director of Public Belations. 
Before 1900  1911  Wells, March  F_  10.00  Suttner, Joseph  M.­ 5.00  
Devine, William P., '8S_ Stubbs. Charles J., '88 Boland. William H., "90 Long, Ferdinand C . '90 Cooney, James J., '93 Wozniak. Peter A.. '94  $100.00 35.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 10 00  Ivramer, Dr. James G.. Hilkert. Albert A Quinn. Edmund J.„. — Ruell. Ulric J Ryan. William R Schubsrt. Lawrence P ­ _$ 25.00 _ 10.00 - 10.00 _ 25.00 _ 5.00 _ 25.00  Grand Total $343.00 No. in Classes 67  $128.00 No. Coatrib. 13 % Contrib. .194  Gnwd Total $65.00 No. in Classes 48  No.% $ 30.00  Contrib.  Contrib. .105  
Costello, Martin J., '97 DannemiUer. Albert J„ '97 HacNamara; Rev. John A., '97 Quinn. James B.. '97 Sullivan. Joseph V.. '97 Montavon. William F., '98 Krauss, Jacob W., '99. Grand Total $606.00 No. in Classics 170 1900 to 1905  25.00 10.00 15.00 25.00 20.00 10.00 25.00  $100.00 Grand Total No. Contrib. $548.00 15 No. in Classes % Contrib. G7 .224 1912 Costelllo, John W $ 10.00 Howard. Rev. Edward J 10.00 McDonald, Donnelly P 500.00 McGlynn. Joseph B.. 1,000.00  1916 Bcckman. Edward J. '.— Cermak, Jerome F. Eckel. Jncoh K. Frie'i, Alfred F. Humphreys. Raj-mond M— McLoughlin. Joseph G, Metzger. Haro' Welsh. Frank B Grand Total No.$348.00  $ 16.00 25.00 10.00 100.00 S.OO 2S.0O 23.00 5.00 210.00  Coatrib. 16  1920 Beacom, Thomas H., Jr-. Bergman, Ralph W._— -Brennan, James H. Doran, M. Edward Hassenauer, Leo J Loosen, J. Paul Madigan, Edward P.. Meehan, Edward J.. Murphy, Francis J -Noonan, William J -Uebbing, Albert Walsh, Herbert M.­ -$100.00 _ 10.00 - 20.00 - 10.00 _ 10.00 - 50.00 _ 5.00 _ 5.00 _ 10.00 _ 25.00 - 10.00 _ 25.00  
Ferstel, William G., '00­: 10.00 Beed, Louis C. M., '00_ 5.00 Brown, Henry E., '02 10.00 Cooney, Maurice J., Jr.. '02_ 5.00 Jones, Vitus G., '02 100.00 Lins. George J.. '02 50.00 Crumley. Harry V., '03 (Dec) -25.00 Kolupa. Ladislaus A., '03 10.00 Griffin, E t Kev. Msgr. M. '04_ 100.00 Jones, Thomas J.. '04 100 00 Kanalcy, Byron V., '04 100.00 Kasper. Frederick J., '04 25.00 Stephan, Anton C. '04 25.00 Winter, Charles A., '04 5.00 Fahy, Bernard S., '05 10.00 Jamieson, William D., '05. . 50.00  Grand Total S2.730.00 No. in Classes 44 1913 Byrne. Paul R.. Cartier. Morgan E— Cotter. William E Granfield. William J.. Hayes. C. Byron Janszen. Lawrence J.. Kirk, Harry J O'Hanlcn, Joseph R..  $1,520.00 No. Contrib. 8 % Contrib. .182 _$ 25.00 _ 25.00 - 100.00 _ 100.00 _ 10.00 _ 10.00 _ 10.00 _ 10.00  No. in Classes % Contrib. 71 .225 1917 Cooney, Dr. John M., Ph. D._$ 25.00 Dorwin. Oscar J 250.00 Gargan. Joseph F 1,000.00 MahafFey, Frederick L.. 25.00 Miller, R. John 10.00 O'Donnell. Dr. Leo D_ 50.00 Quinlan, Daniel J. 10.00 Regan. Bernard M 5.00 Welch. Lawrence J. 10.00 ^Yaeger, Lt. Cmdr. Leslie 10.00 Yockey. Oaude R 10.00  Grand Total $320.00 No. in Classes 83 1921 Abrams, Alfred R.. Carr, Daniel J. Conrad, Raymond J.. Craugh, Gerald J. Dettling, John A Huxford, James H ­Kelley, Leo D Kenney, John E  No.% $280.00  Contrib. 17  Contrib. .205 _$ 25.00 - 10.00 _ 15.00 _ 10.00 10.00 5.00 20.00 10.00  
T'an Rie, Dr. Leo P..Grand Total {1,967.00 Ko. in Classes 106   '05.  300.00  Ryan, Vincent D Sage. Fred L. Schumacher. LeoGrand Total Sl.085.00   A..  No. - 10.00 _ 100.00 _ 25.00 $425.00  Contrib. 18  Grand Total $1,625.00 No. in Classes 108  1,405.00 No. Contrib. 19 % Contrib. . .176  Neary, WUliam F._. Nyikos, Stephen F. -Sjoberg, Italph E Sullivan, George D.-. Witteried, George C._ Zimmerer, Mark E._  25.00 10.00 23.00 10.00 5.00 100.00  
1905 to 1910 Beechinor. Howard F.. *06„ .. SI 0.00 Bosler. William N., '06 _ 10.00 Madden, Ralph C , '06 _ 5.00 Dofaan, Joseph F., '07 _ 10.00 HcDsnald. Edwin A., '07­_ 10.00 Moore, John E., '07 _ 100.00 Daunt, William A., '08-_ _ 50.00 Toofaey, James A., *Q8 _ 10.00 Martin, Paul B., '09 - 25.00 Scanlon, Raymond J., '09-. _ 5.00 $235.00 Onn d Total No. Contrib. $350.00 21 Ko. in CJIasses % Contrib.  No. In Classes % Contrib. 62 .290 1914 Kick. Louis F.—„. $ 25.00 Farrell. Simon T.. 5 00 Hanlon. George T., Jr 2.00 Kobrj'nski, Joseph S 10.00 Mulcahy. Maj. Gen. Francis P. 50.00 Regan. George J • 5.00 Walsh. Thomas J.. Jr 100.00 Walter. M. Emmett. 25.00 $222.00 Grand Total No. Contrib.  1918 Cullinan. Frank L Eigelbach, Carl F. Fritzche, Allan W Hellrung, Herbert C. Hyland,' Richard V.. ICazus, Maximilian G-. Kirby, Arthur C McDonald, William B.. Ronchetti, Peter J Schock. George A Sexton, Dr. Ekner E_ Smith, Knowles B., Pb. D_ Wagner, Louis B. Williams, Rev. Charles J_  _$ 25.00 _ 10.00 _ 25.00 - 25.00 _ 200.00 _ S.OO _ B.00 _ 10.00 _ 25.00 _ 10.00 _ 5.00 - 10.00 . 10.00 . 21.40  Grand Total No.$345.00 No. in Classes %94 1922 Black. Raymond A. Bloemer, Frank ., Jr.­Byrne. Edwin J Castellini. William A. A.-. Dooley, James R Duffey, Joseph E. Dwyer, Wilfred T. Huguenard, Aaron H..  $280.00  Contrib. 19  Contrib. .202 -$ 5.00 _ 25.00 - 20,00 _ 5.00 - 50,00 _ 50.00 . 10.00 - 23.00  
140 1910 Herr. Stephan H HcGrath, Thomas  J..  .150 :$ 25.00 20.00 $ 45.00  S712.00 No. in Classes 67 1915  16 Vc Contrib. .237  Grand Total $1,461.40 No. in Classes 61  ' $386.40 Na.CanMb. 20 % Contrib. .$28  Kellett. Cyril F „ Kelley, LL Cmdr. John F.—. Kreighbaum. Dr. Wallace F -Maloney, W. Joseph——u _ Hnllin, Leo F. Murphy, James E—_—_ _  - 5.00 - B.OO . 10.00 - 2.00 100.00 10.00  
Oraad Total »E,200.00  No.  Ccntrib. 6  Mooney. WilliamRidy. Edward F   J..  -$100.00 _ 5.00  1919  Murphy, WilliamNyhan, Kenneth  J.  F.  25.00 23.00  
KauiaCIan  % Contrib.  Sanford, James E.  _  3.00  Abbott,  John  V. —  -$  10.00  Pfohl. Paul J.  23.00  
27  too  Welch.  John  A  _  10.00  Carroll,  Maurice  J - „  15.00  Scott.  Alfonso  A  20.00  

Volume 23, No. 5, October, 1945 15 
Sheedy, Morgan F.. 23.00 ' Connell, Daniel R 5.00 Cohen, Maurice 6.0Q 
1929. 

Smith, CJarence R-10.00 Courtney, John W. 10.00 Cboney. Robert R-S.00 
Aliwn, VF«IU«I n 
ICO* Zw^ck, Clarence A.. 5.00 Cunningham, Lt. Raymond.C-. 50.00 Corcoran, H. Josti 1S.0*. 

Guner. ViBCcnt F ItM * 

Downard, Thomas L.— 10.00 DoeU, Fhmp E -5.00 
Colaiisdo, John F ie.M 

$457.00 snft . Epstein, Bernard L 10.00 
Carry, Jamn H. 

Grand Total No. Contrib. Hall, Harold F 10,00 Farley. Thomas F., Jr_ 6.00 !•.•• 
Ptian, Jamn R, 

$607.00 31 Hood, Myron E. — ... 2,'i.OO Fitzgerald, Donald A.­lOM !•.(• 
IVian, Vnlnlrlrii E. , 10.I* 

No. in Classes % Contrib. innn Foley, Jchn A 5.00 
Dooakw, Donald .IL_ 1040 150 .207 Hurley, John P., Jr. 10 no Gartland, Joseph A., Jr -6.00 

Dorgan, Jolm W 2G.M 

Hurley, William C. 10.00 Halpin, John J 12.60 
Hartnett. Lt. Joseph P.. Jr-:_ 10.0* 

Kesting, Bernard G — 5.00 Halpin, Richard Ti... 12.60 
1923 Baskdl, Charles A. H. 2S.«« 
Kilkenny, John F 25.00 Hatfield, Malcom K :-6.00 
Brown, Vincent J i 20.00 Homing, Claude H. : 15.00­
Ley, Bernard W 10.00 Heam, Sgt. William G-6.00 
Brussner, Louis V._ 25.00 Keefe, Joseph E 6.00 
Ludwig, George E. 5.00 Irmiger, Robert 10.00 
Cuddihy, J. Gerald— 25.00 KdiT. Joseph B. I«.Ot 
5 00 Kavanaugh, Maj. William D -10.00 
Culhane, J. Daniel-5.00 Kraker, Joseph H 20.00 
Mouch, Charles M 10.00 Leroux, Clayton C. 10.00 
Disney, Francis X.-10.00 LoshbooiA, Bernard E. 20.00 
O'Neil, Daniel J. 5.00 McCluskey, Daniel W 10.00 
Picks, Albert. Jr._ 25.00 Lyons. Dr. Edward J. •• 25.00 
Powers, Leo J 1000 McCurrie, Francis T 20.00 
Fitzgerald, William T.. 10.00 HeDeritt. Lt. Gndr. B^uley L. 60.00 
s on McKieman. Thomas A. 10.00' 
Foley, Bernard B.­50.00 VeNamara, Maj- Joseph P -25.00 
Romweber, Paul C 100.00 McNeills, John F 10.00 
Kane. Michael G 25.00 Harahall, Harold J L -10.00 
Schnettler, Herbert K._ 500 Madden, Thomas P. 5.00 
Kennedy, John F 25.00 Heyer. Franeis Ti. 5.00 
Shelly, Joseph D. ,=rflO Mead. George J . 10.00 
lAUerman, Henry J.. 25.00 MiUiff, Ensene A S.00 
Snakard, John W 10,00 Moran, Capt. (Rev.), James J. _50.00 
Loeran. F. leslic 5.00 HoUoy. John G. S.00 
Stnll, Carl F .... 5,00 Mullen, Dr. George C . 6.00 
McDermitt, Francis F.-„ 10.00 Hotter. Lawrence J _ 6.0t 
Traynor, John P. 5.00 Murphy, William J.. — 6.00 
Maino, Carlton B„ 10.00 Xnlhall. Joseph H 100.00 
Vergara, George A 10.00 Nash, Thomas E 100.00 
Miller, Lyie E 10.00 Nash. Capt. John R-SO.0O 
O'Keefe, WUliam A 6.00 
Nolan, William J 10.00 Noweiy. James It. 25.00 
$510.00 Patton, John M.— ~ 10.00 
Quinn, Robert G -. 10.00 03ryan, Joseph G_ 2S.00 
Grand Total No. Contrib. Reidy, John J. — 10.00 
Pfciffcr, Cornelius J 10.00 O'Connor, Maj. James C , Jr— S.00 
$799.00. 70 Kigali, Joseph L 10.00 
Rolwing. E. Merlin-— 25.00 Ondlette. Jenme E 5.00 
No. in Classes % Contrib. Ruddy. Clarence J -6.00 
Ryan, Edwin S 10.00 Ferone, Rocco Ti, 10.00 
289 .242 Sheeran, Dr. Daniel H— 10.00 
Strable, Lawrence L— 5.00 Rndd. Joseph R 10.00 
Thomas, George E — 10.00 
Torres, Jesse N 5.00 Bees, Leo A — 10.00 Regan, Louis J. , 10.00 
1926 $510.00 
$355.00 Sdidl, Oliver F. 25.00 
Grand Total No. Co^rik. 
Grand Total No. Contrib. Burke, Thomas A -$ 10.00 Seitx. Reynolds C 5.00 
$1,003.00 68 
$665.00 22 Cahill, Lt. Cmdr. Robert _ 100.00 Wanek. George C -10.00 
No. In Classes TiCoatiih. Xo. in Classes % Contrib.  John - Theodore 10.00 
Campbell. F.  25.00 Witz, A ­
318 .182 
Collins, Patrick F. _ 5.00 Coughlin,. Dr. Bertrand B.-_ 25.00 $715.00 Cummins, Robert B. _ 10.00 GnuMl Total iro.c<iirtittL 
182 .121 
1924 1928 
Dougherty, Charles M - 10.00 $1,045.00 6* 
Barber, Thomas W. _$ 10.00 Amiot. Neil H_ ! 20.00 
Eggert, Herbert A _ 10.00 No. !• Classrs %Goi*rife. 
Barrett, J. Raymond-. _ 5.00 Bennett, Gordon-6.00 
Fallon, Edward A _ 5.00 318 a71 
Chaussee, E. Louis—— _ 10.00 Brennan, Edwin F. — 5.00. 
Farrell, Thomas A_—'. — _ 50.00 
Ferguson, Thomas B - 5.00 
Crook, William J _. 6.00 Buckley, Lonis F. 26.00 
Cunningham, Robert S -_ 3.00 Carr, Louis J. 10.00 
Gelson. J. Norbert _ 10.00 
Donovan, Thomas C. .. _ 10.00 Canny, James P. . 26.00 1930 
Glynn, James J. ; - 10.00 DriKBS, Harry S. _ 5.00 Conley, Maurice B. — 26.00 Bitter, John A., Jr.:.. I 2S.00 
Goepfrich, Rudolph A„ - 10.00 Glynn, George H _ 25.00 Connelly, Bernard J— 5.00 BfcMin. Richard A. 20.00 
Griffin, John T. _ 5.00 Gordon, Thomas E _ 3.00 De Bott, Joseph T 5.00 Bohrman, Charles D 10.00 
Hall, Austin .K.. . 10.00 Herbst. Frederick F.~ _ 2.00 
Johnston, J. Farrell— _ 10.00 De Clercq, Jerome C-5.00 Bromann, William H., Jr-. 6.00 
McGee, Raymond A -- 25.00 Galardy, Frank M — 25.00 Brown, Thomas M___ 25.00 
Hurley, Francis B._ . 5.00 
McGoorty. John P., Jr _ 25.00 Garber, Bernard A.—-10.00 CuuHm, Danid F 5.00 
Keefe, Lawrence V._ - 10.00 
Miller, Lt Cmdr. Edward B. _ 15.00 Glaska. John M 10.00 Conroy, Lt. Cmdr. Edward G_ 5.00 MiHer, Howard M _ 10.00 Hartley, James J— — 2.00 Csney^ Lt. Leo H_ — •6.00 
JjQ Blanc, Erwin J.— . 5.00 
Sfahoney, John - 25.00 Miller, Richard C - 5.00 Hatch, Glenn M. 10.00 Costello, James C __ BM
Mason. Charles E. — . 10.00 Moran. Walter B - 25.00 Hurley, William A 16.00 Cronin. T. Ijiwrence. Jr.^ 5.00 
Mulaney, Charles W.-. 10.00 Murphy, Timothy J., Jr.-_ 10.00 Kearney, William P-.— 26.00 Dempsey, Edward J 10.00 
O'Day, George P - 25.00 O'Donnell, John C -10.00 Kirwan, Martin J., Jr.— 6.00 Drinane, Joseph S. 10.00 
O'Neill. Daniel J . 10.00 Rickard, Vernon E -10.00 Konop. William H 5.00 ItaSy, Edward C__-6.00 
Reddington. Michael B._ - 10.00 Ryan, John F. , 10.00 Loeiller, Bernard T 5.00 Eggeman, Robert F 10.00 
Ronan. James A . 20.00 Smith, James L, Jr 5.00 McCormack, Edward J-6.00 Fletcher, Bernard D_ 10.00 
Slater. Frank X . 10.00 Stillman, Harry B 230.00 Hassman. Henry J., Jr— 25.00 Focel, Warren S 10.80 
Smith. Gerald J - 25.00 . Sullivan. Roderick E — 5.00 Mocrissey, Joseph S—— 26.00 Frey, Henry R : _ 5.00 
Toomey, Rev. Joseph B.^ - 10.00 Tighe, Edward T 10.00 Mullen, John A 20.00 Gallagher, Arthur J 5.00 
Tuohy, John O. :: . 10.00 • Uebbing, John-— 5.00 Nickells. Robert L 10.00 Gibbons. John W 10.00 
"Waldron, James R . 5.00 Ryan. Martin A. . 5.00 Goodman. Sgt. Morton S -5.00 
Whelan, James F.— . 50.00 $506.00 -. 10.00 Sargus, George J — 10.00 Gmning. Csil H. 5.00 
Wrocklage, Theodore J.­Grand Total No. Contrib. Scheuer, George A 5.00 Hennessy, Joseph W. 5.00 
$946.00 44 Schuessler, Charles A. 10.00 Hffl, Rev. John J S.00 
$552.00 No. in Classes % Contrib. Grana Total No. Contrib. Seidensticker, Norbert A -5.00 Houghton. Walter C 6.00 208 „ .211 $1,865.00 51 Shelanskey, Charles J 5.00 Langford. Walter U 2S.00. 
Simonin, Joseph R—. 6.0O HeAloon, Leo R. 10.00 Thoma, C. Arnold 15.00 KeCum. Arthur J 16.00 
So. in Classes % Contrib. 
1925 326 .156 
Topping, Charles G— 5.00 Koran, John T : 5.00 
Adrian, Michael J—.— _$ 5.00 Toussaint, Walter J -20.00 Morphy, Thomas G, 25.00 
Bell, William R . _ 10.00 Wagner. Milton J— ^ 10.00 Parent, Fred R ' .3.00 
Benitz, William H - 10.00 1927 
_$ 5.00 Panaesiaai, Joseph i IOLOO Boettinger, Leo J. — _ 20.00 Benitz, Paul A — 
_ 25.00 $422.00 Pope. George B— _ 10.00 
Boland, Maurice J— ~ _ 5.00 Boiwke, Edward F ­
Bums, Leonard A.—~ _ 60.00 Brennan, Eugene '. 
10.00 Grand Total N*.Caatiik. Ready. Franeis T _ "S.0*'^ 
10.00 $945.50 68 Redgate.- John C laoo Carfagno, Thomas F— _ 25.00 Brennan, John W 
Carroll, Patrick J.-„ 10.00 Campbell. Hugh L., Jr.. 
2S.00 No. In Glasses %Coirtiib. Booney, Sgt. Francis J _ S.0O 20.00 414 .10* Sehoppman. Frederick D— ..6.0*-
Celebrezze, Mai. Frank D -_ 10.00 Carter, Cpl. William E— Shipacasse, Albert J. 5.00 Ernest. Francis R— . 25.00 Suite. Frederick B., Jr— 50.00 Foss, George J.. Jr_ 5.00 Silvestro, Samuel F 3.00 Foley, Joseph M . 5.00 Stephan, Edmund A 10.00 Gainer, John J. 5.00 Smallwood. Charles T 10.00 Hilger, James R . 25.00 Stewart, William A., Jr_ S.OO Kavanaugh, John C. 5.00 Spahr, Baymond J 5.00 Houlahan, Michael L._ . 2.00 Stitt. Lawrence J. 5.00 Keating, Raymond B — 25.00 Staudt, Baymond Z.. Jr„ 10.00 Howe, Paul A. . 10.00 Tischler, Robert G 5.00 Keefe, William C 10.00 Steitz, William N 10.00 Kelley, Edward H. F., Jr_ . 10.00 Uprichard. James E 5.00 Klima, William J 5.00 StetUer, Harry L., Jr 50.00 Kelly, Edward J . 25.00 Watling. George H 6.00 Kluber, Robert J., Jr. 5.00 Sullivan. Donald D .— 10.00 Kenney, Dr. John M., Jr.. . 10.00 Wittenburg. William F -Koppelberger, Francis L^ 20.00 
10.00 

Sweeney; Francis F 5.00 Kiener, John A „_ . 10.00 Kuharich, Anthony S-. 5.00 Toomey, Timothy J 10.00 Kilburger, Harry F. . 25.00 $451.00 Kunz, Ens. J. Jacob 5.00 Welzenbach, Alois J. 25.00 Linn, Gerald B 5.00 Grand Total No. Coatrib. McDonnell. John F. 5.00 Zilialc Raymond G 1.00 Lucbett. Angclo B 5.00 $698.00 62 Mahcr. Lt. Charles E. S.OO McCarthy. Florence J.. Jr._ . 10.00 No. in Classes % CoatriK Maxwell, Francis R 5 00 J482.00 McLaughlin. Leo V.__._ . 10.00 422 J47 Melinkovich, George J -5.00 Grand Total Ko. Contrib. Magee. Thomas J 5.00 Moss, Lt. William 25.00 $768.00 4S Marley. Francis M 10.00 1934 Neeson, Lt. John H., Jr.-25.00 3fo. in Classes % Contrib. Mehren, Lt. Edward W._ 100.00 Novak, Charles J. 5.00 
Beckley. William E — 6.00 444 Blaha. Dr. George C_ 10.00 
.110 Moreau. Eugene J. 5.00 O'Brien, Francis F. 10.00 
'Murray, Francis L 1000 Blish. Eugene S -10.00 O'Hara. Edward L. 3.00 
Noonan. Walter F. 5.00 Brady. Francis J. ~ 10.00 O'Shea. Russell J 5.00 
1931 
O'Connor, James P. 10.00 Brugger. Leo J-5.00 Otte. William J • 5.00 Anderson, John W., Jr.-$ 5.00 
O'Hara, Bart W 5.00 Pendergast. Robert P 10.00 
Casaretta. Raymond D -20.00 
Barber. Bichard J 5J0O 
Petretic Charles J 3.00 Pons. Maj. Adolphe J., Jr— 5.00 Blatt. Bev. Bernard A. ­. 35.00 
Cemey. Otty J S.OO 
Petritz, Lt. Joseph S 5.00  William 5.00 Ryan. William F 5.00 
Collins. JBrandon. Lucas H. 5.00 

Pfeiffer, Raymond L. 10.00 Cronin. Capt. Bernard J -5.00 Schmidt. William E 10.00 Chiara, Roland A . 10.00 
Prodehl, Clifford E 25.00 David. Thomas C. 2.00 Seymour. James E. -10.00 Crowley, Jerome J . 5.00 
Russo, Dr. Albert J., Jr 5.00 Sheahan. Walter F_ 10.00 
Devine. John A 10.00 
Cullisan, Capt. Jerome S.~ 5.00 
Slader, William T. 5.00 Durkin. Lt. Cmdr. Joseph A.— 10.00 Shields, Robert J 10.00 
Coshwa. Charles B.. Jr 105.00 
Streb. Lt. Robert C 5.00 Egan. Rev. Sebastian L., OFM S.OO Slnszka, Sigmund J— 7.30 
Dalton. Lt. Balph J . 10.00 
Svete, Leo C. 5.00 Sullivan. Charles 2.00 Dericks. Richard J . 25.00 
BScher. William F. 10.00 
Toussaint. Joseph A 15.00 Fesler. James C 15.00 Toussaint. Norbert F -5.00 Dolan, John M . . 10.00 
Theisen. Lt Cyril C _ 10.00 Fischer. Henry Jw_ 5.00 Van Lahr. Robert F._. 5.00 Dorle, James T S.OO 
Torborg. Martin P. 5.00 Vairo, Dominic M 5.00 
Forrest. James J. ~ — 10.00 
Draves, Dr. Edward F-. . 25.00 
Trieweiler, Francis J.-5.00 Vitter. Albert L., Jr--10.00 Egan. Daniel J 2.00 
Fransioli, Vincent G 1.00 
Trotter, James 31 20.00 Weil, Alfred J. 
Fraser. Clarence G—^ 10.00 5.00 
Esposito, Dr. Louis W » 50.00 
Vassallo, Joseph A 10.00 
Froelich. David J 10.00 Whipps, Kenneth R 5.00 
Flitter, Qarence H. . 25.00 
Waltz. William D S.OO 
Fromm. William H., Jr_ 5.00 Witchger, Eugene S 25.00 
Golden. Thomas F . 10.00 
Wehrlen. Herbert J 2.00 
Gleason. James H. S.OO 
Gore. Robert H.. Jr. . 25.00 
Glennon. Joseph R.. Jr— 10.00 $515.00 
Hannabach. Francis J.. . 10.00 
$563.00 Hallauer. Edward W 5.00 Grand Total No. Cimtrib. 
Hershfield. Myron C 5 00 Gnuid Total So. Contrib. 
Ralpin. Lt. Robert H 10.00 $899.50 73 Higgiston, James A. 2.00 
Sl.341.00 74 Honerkamp. Lt. Francis W IS.OO No. in Classes % Contrib. 
Earl, William C_ . 10.00 Xo. in Classes % Contrib. 
Kellcy. Robert K 3.00 452 .161 
Leahy, Morris K. . 10.00 
532 .139 
Kenefake. Edwin W 5.00 
McCarthy. William C, Jr„ . 10.00 
Kennedy. J. Walter 25.00 1936 McLeod, Norman J . 25.00 
Levins. John P— 10.00 Ball. Capt George W. _$ 10.00 
McManmon, Arthur T 10.00 
1933 McGahren. Francis J. — 25.00 Belmont. Roman P _ 5.00 
Mahon. Edward J. . 10.00 
Brennan, Roger P.^ $ 10.00 Mahoney. Daniel J—-— 10.00 Binder. George A - 3.00 
Martin, Valentine H 2.00 
Brinker. John B 5.00 Maloney, George P., Jr-25.00 Biay. Jdin T* _ 25.00 
Murphy, Carroll B 5.00 
Carton, Richard G-. • 5.00 Martin, John B. -25.00 Byrne. Conal J _ 2.00 
Murphy, James G. 5.00 
Clark. Joseph D 5.00 Mueller, Charles W 10.00 Casper. Dr. Norvin L _ 25.00 
O'Connor, Ward F . 10.00 
Coyne. Eugene J— 500 Nicholas, Samuel J 13.00 Church. August J _ 10.00 
O'Malley, William IJ 5.00 
Darmody, Lt. Philip A.. S.OO Niedzielski. Clemens F 5.00 Coyne, John V _ 10.00 
O'Shea, Bartholomew T . 25.00 
DeWald, Maurice J S.OO O'Brien, William F.. Jr-_ 3.00 Cnrran. Vincent T - 5.00 
Rabaim, Frederick J . 10.00 
Doran. John M.. Jr 10.00 O'Connor. John J.. Jr— 25.00 Deichmann. Fred A.. IL_ _ 2.50 Reinhart, Lambert E . 10.00 
Eckert, Edward J , 10.00 Philbin. Cp). Edmund P -S.OO Dizenzo, Patrick A. _ 10.00 Reising, Warner A 5.00 
Fallon. Francis X.. Jr— . 10.00 Puglieso. Anthony J 5.00 Farrell. William J _ 5.00 
Sfaamon. George B . 10.00 
Fogarty. Francis J 10.00 Quinn, Dr. Edward D 10.00 Guamieri. L t Paul A _ 5.00 
Stepan. Alfred C . Jr — 25.00 
Galla. John J. 25.00 Rickus. Sgt. Russell B 5.00 Hakes. James R _ 10.00 
Sullivan, Capt. John F.. 6.00 
Grattan. Henry A. 25.00 Schaffer. Henry F 10.00 Hansman. Louis H. _ 5.00 
Sullivan, Robert J . 10.00 
Griffin. Thomas E 25.00 Schenkel. Norbcrt J 5.00 Hmurcik, Joseph P _ 25.00 
Wachsmuth. Frank C . 15.00 
Haberkom, Ernest F. 5.00 Turner. Ralph M. : 10.00 Huber. Arthur F. _ S.OO 
Wil t Pvt. Joseph A — 5.00 
Harrison. Rev. Frank J. 10.00 
Joyce. Francis M . _ 10.00 

Wisda, Lester J S.OO 
Hofmann. Sgt, Joseph A.. Jr^-10.00 $447.00 Kirby. James H . _ 10.00 
Hughes. Martin L 5.00 Grand Total No. Coatrib. Kumrow. Edward F. _ 3.00 
$606.00 

Joseph. Francis M 10.00 $921.00 85 I^nge. Pvt Louis A. _ 5.00 
Grand Total Ho. Contrib. 
Iiisiakowski. Edwin G 10.00 No. in Classes % Contrib. McNally. L t Edward T „ - 10.00 
$1,191.50 72 Lottes, Edward F. 5.00 426 .200 McNeile. George R _ 5.00 
Xo. in Classes % Contrib. 
McCaffery, Lt. David S.. 5.00 
Norton. John W _ 2.00 
426 .170 

McGill. .lames F 10.00 1935 Ratigan. Joseph W. - 23.00 
Mclaughlin. Thomas M.. 10.00 Andreoni. Albert t 20.00 
Schmnhl. William J - 10.00 1932 Mahaffey. Thomas J 25.00 Annas, John T 25.00 Smith. William J - 5.00 Ball, Hugh E _ ; 10.00 Murphy. Louis C. Jr 5.00 Aniheiter. Philip P— 5.00 Sullivan, Edward T. . - 5.00 Barry, John S. 5.00 Murray. John R 10.00 Biggins. E. Richard— 7.00 Tancredi. Nicholas J - 25.00 
10.00 O'Brien, Allison J 25.00 10.00 
Barton, Andrew P>-Cass, Francis J. Voorde, Edward F. _ 5.00 Caiowski. Henry J_ 5.00 Olczak, Edward A 10.00 Catalane. Bartholomew W -25.00 Whitaker. John F . 300.00 Carey, Joseph H 10.00 Randolph, Clare L 1.00 Cocn. William M 10.00 Wynn. John W  10.00 
. 

10.00 Rau, Lt. Eugene G 5.00 
Chadwick. James H Conley. Thomas A 10.00 Zdanowicz. John F.. - 10.00 Cline, Arthur F 10.00 Rohrs. George H S.OO Conlon. Joseph W._____ 5.00 Collins, Lt. James K -10.00 Sage. Edward. J. 10.00 Crowley. Anthony W — 50.00 
$804.50 Colville, John E. —:— 10.00 Schaeffner, Victor J 10.00 Dineen. Dr. Francis A.. 20.00 Grand Tote! No. Contrib. Consolati, Francis A — 7.00 Sexton. Lt. W. Lawrence— S.OO Dubs. Glenn T. I.OO $1,239.93 
Czapalski, Stanley J_ 2.00 Sheehan. John H.-5.00 Fautsch, Louis F-« 5.00 No. in Classes .% Contrib. Dunn, Joseph J.. 10.00 Shiebler. Andrew J.. S.OO Fitzpatrick. John P 5.00 
443 .142 

Anonymous . 50.00 Tuson, William R.. 2s.oe Thomas. WilBam S_
1937 
Bride, Sgt. Allan F _ Brovelli, Oiarles C._ Burch, Raymond M» Byrne, William J Crotty, Edward J Dahill, Edward J Donnelly, Bernard P Fallon, Capt. William H.. Foley, William R., Jr. Froning, J. Fendall Gallagher, Hubert S Gannon, Edward J Goldsmith, Edmund F. Hartnett, Lt. Vincent W._ Hennessy, Donald A HoUenbach, Louis J., Jr._ Huiskinff, Edward P Kalman, G. Joseph Kennedy, William J. Kirk. Wilfred B  -$ 5.00 _ 10.00 _ 10.00 _ 10.00 _ 5.00 _ 10.00 _ 25.00 _ 10.00 _ 10.00 _ 5.00 _ 5.00 _ 10.00 _ 3.00 . 25.00 . 5.00 . 100.00 - 10.00 . 10.00 . 2.00 . 5.00  Mulhem, L t Francis A.­10.00 Quinlan, Sgt Daniel O 3.00 Reardon, Bernard S 26.00 Scannell, L t Richard J.. 25.00 Schumacher, Clarence P.­25.00 Terry, Charles P 5.00 Thomas, John D 5.00 Thulis, John J 10.00 Tobin, Capt John R., Jr__ 6.00 Uniacke, Capt Edward A« 5.00 Vance, Casimir E — 2.00 Vaslett Capt Eugene F._ 10.00 Weaver, Sgt Rex E 6.00 Williams, Sgt. HaroU A.. 10.00 $576.00 Grand Total No. Contrib. $1,042.00 77 No. in Classes ^•Contrib. 565 .136  «519,M Gnu d Total II«.Coirtiik. $1,256.00 115 No. in Clasacs %Coirtrik. 606 .190 1940 Albert Ens. Francis J., Jrl^ « 10,00 Anderson, Edgar Tr 10.00 Armitage, L t Henry G— 100.00 Aubrey, Pv t Francis Y. 2.00 Bangert Maj. Douglas A 10.00 Barber, Pv t Robert A 10.00 Barreda, Capt "F. G. 10.00 Baumert Francis X, 5.00 Begley, James R. 10.00 Bond, Nathaniel 5.00 Borda, L t Henry •? _ 30.00 Browning, John T. 10.00'  Wallaee. Georse S, IM t Ward. Gw^ e K Witdser. Bobert W.. WUtfoid. Joa^h C_-6na«TMa I N ^ tl.57t.00 125 ~Na.iaClM m C95 .180 1941 Alb. L t George W JtiSM Avoae, Pv t Louis . 10.M Anspos. Ijiwtenee A -U.t t Bartl. Bohert I. Bdden. Ridard F _ , lOM Benedosao. Capt Anthony A _ 26UM Bernard; L t Anthony • . 2.t* Brady, Ens. Wada J 2S.M  
AfcGowan, Clement L— Mcintosh, Joseph K — McKenna, John F. Mulcahy, Yeo. Frederick C._ O'Donnell, James T Phillips, Dr. John B Reilly, Francis J Salerno, Nicholas J Schmclzle, Robert J Schwartz, Pfc. Albert J._ Sconfietti. Cesare D. Shapero, Joseph B. Shields. Lt. Edward M._ Smith, Albert J., Jr. _ Anonymous Thomas. Robert J Tieman, Mai. Luke J-~ Trousdale, Robert V._ Ullman, John C Yaraki, Paul M. Zeiller, Lt. Gerard J..  . 10.00 - 10.00 . 5.00 . 10.00 5.00 . 10.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 , 20.00 . ' 5.00 . 25.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 5.00  1939 Benedict, Rev. Michael J ­Blessing, Michael L ~ Bolz. Robert C. Brennan, Sgt William J— Bulger, Sgt Thomas R Callaghan, L t John A -. Corcoran. L t Joseph M.— Deale, Valentine B. -, DeCoursey, Vincent W. Dineen. Dennis L .. Donnelly, John P.. Doyle, John T Dray, L t Joseph F., Jr._ Falsioni, Daniel P Felts. Sgt Allan F. Fitzpatrick, L t Francis E_. Fricke, Cpl. Carl H Gelber. L t David A  Bums, L t William G_ Cella, Anthony L, Cenni, Lt. Louis J,. J: Chaput Elmer P Clarke, J. Philip Cleary, L t William F _ Costello, Sgt George K.. Crawford, L t Bernard K. Crumley, Capt Thomas F _ Curran, John M.,- Jr. I>eFranco, Joseph F.,,, Del Gaizo, Joseph P Dell, Sgt Charles E Dillon, Ens. John C . Jr Donoghue. Capt James V _ Dougherty, L t W. Edgar-Doyle, Capt Vincent A. Driscoll, L t Donald B Else, John G Engel, Henry K Ephgrave, Pfc. Charles W ­Evans, George K , Jr,  25.00 - Breanan L t John CL5.00 Breanan, L t Walter 35.00 Brodbeek. Walter F25.00 Brown, a Wibnott10.00 Buckley. Cw t Cliittsd G20.00 Clarke, Capt Stmhen B20.00 Casejr, L t Joseph S25.00 Cassidr. L t Thaddens D10.00 CUtUe, Ens. Joseph F6.00 Cotter. L t Wniiam E.. Jr5.00 Oitfortb. Jolm K10.00 Dillon. Sg t Ckailes R18.00 Don. Jesse L '.10.00 Doody, Fiands A—5.00 Doiaii. Bobert J20.00 Donham. William J10.00 Fhnd l Ckarles J _10.00 Vrttida. L t Alfred J-..:10.00 , Gcxard. L t Charles B5.00 Gem. L t John B10.00 Gillespie. Gspt Charles J10.00 Cbeene, Oiarles EL. Jr  lOM UM L_ . 5.tt;  S.tO ' le.tO tBM  26.0*  6.10  2S.««  16.0* lOM  10.tt  lao t ' 10.0*  25.0* tM  .SJ t tSM  25.M  l.te  ZSLtt 4M  
Grand Total  Ho. $465.00  Contrib.  Gerend, Walter J Geyer, George E  —  Giolino. L t Francis V. Gschwend, Paul J., II  10.00 6.00  GoDtiiisB. Capt Jcaeph PHnber. Vte. Joseph J„ Jr.  16.tt  10.00  
So. $762.00 in Classes  69 % Contiib.  Grimes,Harris,  Edward K.  Capt David  W.  Gunter, FrancisHackman, Paul  E-. W_  20.00 15.00  Htaahr. Capt Arthur Jbigwersea. Kartia L  20.t0 ­ 10.00  
• 472  .146  Herrick, William R Hiegel, Ens. Joseph J  Haggerty. Maj. George G_ Hartzer, Capt Joseph F,.­ 25.00 10.00  Jaeqnes. a Edward'Joyee> John L  Jr  100.00  6.00  
1938  Honerkamp, Frederick W.— Huether, Robert W.  Heintzelman, Capt James H _Horn, Capt George T.   10.00 5.00  Kama. Ebner JKtae. John J  '.  5.00 • IOLOO  
Bauer,  Burnett,  C  -J  1.00  Hunt  Russell  L.  Hufnagel,  Capt  James  5.00  Kelly.  Edward  J  lOJO  
Bohen,  Lt. Thomas  L.  10.00  Johnson, Dr. James A.  •Joyce,  L t  John  J.  10.00  Kralorce, Donald B.  10.10  
Bond.  SEt.  Thomas  D —  5.00  Kennedy, Maj. Robert  D»  Julian.  L t  John  D  10.00  I^ng.  James  O—\  10.00  
Brosius.  Pvt.  Charles  T.­ 2.50  Klister.  Rev.  Irving  P.  Kaczmarek, Richard  C—  G.0O  Lanoi^  John  W_  
Buckley,  John  L  50.00  Kristan,  Julius  R  Kamm.  CpL  Wilber  A _  5.00  Leoaard. Sg t  Bohert  J_  10.00  
Qeary,  Capt.  John  F  10.00  LaVigne,  Pfc.  Ernest  F.­ Karr, Capt. George  R.—  25.00  UfarKmsie. L t  Loots A.­ 25J0  
Clifford, Sgt. Jeremiah J  10.00  Long.  William  P „  Kelsey,  Charles  H  S.00  Ifaddslens. L t Arthur D., Jr _  26.00  
Correll, Lt.  Col. Hugh  B  10.00  Lynch.  L t  John  E  Kerwin,  L t  William  F., Jr_  5.00  Haao.  L t  Bernard A.  2SM  
Cosgrove,  Francis  P  5.00  McAuliffc.  Capt  John  E - Kuhlmann,  John  H.  5.00  MeGnder. L t  Francis J.. Jr _  2SJ0  
CroUard, Capt. Frederick  M_  5.00  Maher,  Ens.  Thomas  A  McKenny,  Keeran  F.  10.00  Ibnix,  Joseph  C  2SM  
Currier.  Donald  F.  5.00  Martin.  L. Peter  McQueen,  James  R.  10.00  Harietta  Donald  J.  6.00  
Danahy.  Richard  T  10.00  Mastropietro,  Francis  J.­ Mangano, Joseph A  10.00  Morphy. L t  Edward F^. Jr.  100.00  
Delaney,  Lt.  Francis  J., Jr..  25.00  Mitchell.  Mark  J.. Jr—  Marker,  L t  Thomas  P-.  5.00  Morray. James H..  Jr  6.00 ~  
Dillon,  Lawrence  A  5.00  Murray,  William  S  Mathey,  Joseph  R  10.00  Naee.  John  F  5,00  
Dillon,  Terrence  J  10.00  Nigro,  Capt  Joseph  F.­ Matthews.  L t  Edward  E_  10.00  Neild. L t  Sannd J.. Jr  10.00  
Drolla.  Francis  J  5.00  Norton,  L t  Charles  M._  Meconi,  Louis  P.  s.00  O'Brien.  L t  J.  F.  D  ^  '  SM  
Flynn,  Cpl. Thomas  F..  5.00  O'Hara,  John  F  Menneg, Capt Paul E.  ...  10.00  Fave^io, Gerald E,;——  10.00  
Foley, James R...—  25.00  O'Neil, L t  George M.,  Jr.- Metzger,  Capt  Richard  A  6.00  Piepnl.. Ifnton  J  lOJO  
Fox,  Louis A._.  25.00  Reilly, Robert M.  Mullen, Capt  Paul  A. J ­ 10.00  Forten,  Edward  '"  .10.00  
Gallagher,  Lt.  Charles  M.­ 5.00  Rizzi. Harold  C.  Murphy, L t  Francis  J_ _  5.00  Powers..Lt  John  S  B-**  
Gallin, William H., J r  10.00  Ryan,  Joseph  F.  Norbert  Brother  CFX  2.00  Qoimi. Eugene !»__  'r.oo  
Head, Sgt. John I.  5.00  Ryan,  William  R., Jr..  O'Donnell,  Capt  Hugh  15.0«„  Beidr. L t  David L  ­ •  20.00  
Howard.  George C,  Jr—  S.OO  Ryan.  Russell  J  0*Gorman,  L t  Kevin  H  5.00  BeynoMs.  L t  Charles  E.  
Jehle, John L.™  10.00  Schirf, Mai. Robert F.  Plummer, Capt  James W—  1.00  (Deceased)  
Kavanaugb.  Thomas  C  10.00  Sadowski.  Lt.  Chester  P_ - Prat t  Edward  A  6.00  BiSBejr, Eas. Thomas  J..  10.00  
Keenan, George E.,  Jr.—  5.00  Short,  Walter  J  Rogers,  James  J.  10.00  Bohidooz  Lee  J.  
Kelley, L t  John R  10.00  Sporor,  John  J  Schmit  CPL Roliert  F _  6.00  Kyaa. Dr. Engeae J  
Kesicke,  Francis  E  5.00  Streator,  Charles H  Sexton,  Gerald A  50.00  Bjan. L t Jerome A_—  iM  
Leahy,  Paid  J.. Jr.  S.OO  Suiivan,  -Bernard  J »  Sheehan, Sg t  Clarence  T-.  -5.00  Sdlaflr, Robert J..  Jr_.  
Hackin, Henry J.,  J r  5.00  Sulivan.  Joseph  J.  Sprafke,  David  W  3.00  Sdksier. BammidH .  10.00  
Hagee, JeromeMazanec. Capt  B  Robert  J..  50.00 12.50  Theisen, Charles J. _ Tonsmeire, L t Julius  C.——  Sullivan L t James H. Szumachowsk], Stephen A  10.0 0 5.00  Showdia. Cspt Bocer J_ Smith. Bernard F-__ .  .lOJfi tio  
Mercado,  Victor  R.  2.00  Trousdale.  L t  Roderick  L..—  Tracey, Edward J. J  lOi.OO  Somers.  JUS.  Joseph  F-.  SOLOO  

Stack. Daniel J., Jr~. SO.OO Grand Total No. CToDtrib. 
1944 1945 
Sulivan, Daniel G 5.00 $1,457.20 127 
Tiedemann. Lt. Donald C . 5.00 No. in Classes % Contrib. Alexander, Guido A» I 20.00 Angiulli, Pv t Eugene R i 10.00 Tremblay, Pfc. Norman C._ 5.00 512 .248 Amann, Pvt William R.­S.00 Clarke, Pfc William A., Jr„ 2.00 Trexler, Ralph J 5.00 Belmont Peter M 20.00 Qemency, Ens. William M. 5.00 Van Huffel. Albert F. 5.00 1943 Boetto, Ens. Dominic F— S.OO Clynes, James J. 5.00 Walsh, John E 3.00 Borgess. Richard R 10.00 Coyle, Robert W 10.00 
Araujo, Hamon A.. 5.00 
-? 

Walsh. Pvt. I^wrcnce M_ 3.00 Borkowski. John J., Jr.— 10.00 Donnelly, James V.. Jr. 2.00 
Blomer, Olarles I.. 10.00 Willdns. Lt. Noel F 25.00 Bowling, Bernard F. 15.00 Dougherty, L t William B 5.00 
Bonfiglio. John P 25.00 
Bosak. John J 15.00 Byrnes, Robert J 10.00 Dowling, John J, 10.00 $1,170.00 Carpenter. Pf c Robert L '. 10.00 F!eaka,.John P „ 5.00 
Brooks, Lt Robert E.. Jr._ 10.00 
Grand Total No. Contrlb. 
Carrico. Ens. William E 10.00 Grant William F 10.00 $2,033.55 143 Christen. Ens. Joseph E., Jr... 60.00 Harrington, William E.. Jr.. 5.00 
Carabasi, Ralph A.. 10.00 
Carey, L t William J 10.00 
No. in Classes C^ Contrib. 
Christman. John F 10.00 lAUth, Ens. Louis F. 10.00 68S .208 Qemens. Pv t Thomas C . - lAWson, John F „ 10.00 
Caruso, Pf c Louis J 10.00 
Carver. Pf c Robert B 5.00 5.00 
Leahy, L t John E. 10.00 

Qeary. Edmund P._-15.00 Coaker, Pf c John F 10.00 Lugton, Ens. Charles R„ 5.00 
1942 Clemens, Lt James A.. Jr.„ 10.00 Davis. Donnell V 20.00 
Lyons. John F 5.00 

Bargielski. John C. $ S.OO Collins, Robert W 25.00 Dewes. Ens. Henry C 10.00 MaclAughlin. Ens. Harry E. ­1.00 
Bergan. Lt. Joseph A—: — 5.00 Cosgrove, Thomas F. 5.00 di Nardo. Ramon A 5.00 Martin, Philip P 1.00 
Berminsham. Lt. John G— 25.00 Crollard. Louis J. 5.00 Drinkard, Edward V. O.. 10.00 
Blatt. George J Borda, Lt. John N Buenger. Lt. Edward A. Cahill, Jones F Carr. Michael J«^ Cody. Lt. Thomas P Conger. Charles E. Davis, Warren A Desel, L t Walter J.. Jr Donahoc, Dr. Robert E Duggan. Cpl. Danid F Duggan. James MFaliey, Sg t Lester D  -.  10.00 15.00 • 25.00 1.00 5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00  Dahm. L t Henry L., Jr. Farmer, Thomas M Ferrante. Francis J Fitzpatricfc, Lt. Joseph W„ Pogarty, Cpl. John F Fretague. William J Gans. Frederick A Goosen, Frederick D Groebner, Capt Jerome J._ Grogan, Pv t John P Gulyassy, Nicholas S Hapan. Daniel J ,_ Heltzel. L t Donald T  10.00 25.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 20.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 6.00 25.00  Duffy. Robert T Dugan, PauID . Earley, Ens. Anthony F.,Eck, Franklin E Englert Earl R Fahrendorf, Frederick J -Farrdl, Joseph B. Ferrari, Thomas A. Gdber, Ens. Melvin W. _ Gillespie. William J Graham, William L. -Grumbine, Ens. Roy J. Jeakle. Ens. John G   Jr..  10.00 20.00 25.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 25.00  Mazanec, Ens. William J._ McGrane, Ens. John F. O'Rourke, John J Philpott Robert E. Retter, James R. Roscher, John R. Tenczar, Pf c Francis J Weber, L t Theodore S.,Grand Total $345.50  12.50 5.00 5.00 3.00 3.00 6.00 5.00 Jr.-25.00 $174.50 No. Contrib. 39  
Fairley, Pvt. George E.Farrdl, Pfc. William J   A._  5.00 10.00  Ivancevic. Walter C Jerry, Lt. Vincent L,.  2.00 .50.00  Kamm, Sg t Gerald A Koetter, Frederick W.-.  5.00 6.00  1946  
Finneran, Lt. Robert F. (Deceased) — Fitzgerald, Lt. Robert M _ Fitzpatrick, Pfc. Martin J._ Hanifin. Ens. John F Harrington. Robert D Hartman, Pf c John F. Henry, George P«. Hiciey. William M Hoiak, Thomas E Kehoe, Robert L. Kelley, Paul W., Jr _ Kern, L t Richard J.. Kilbane. John- K. Knott ti~ Joseph W _ McFadden, James J. McKee. Robert J McNeill. L t Oiarles E.. Malone, L t Robert E. _ Maiigen. William E Masterson. L t Leonard J.-Metzger. L t Francis E. (Deceased) Morrison. Thomas A Morrow, L t William F Murphy, Cpl. Richard C^— Nash, L t Thomas D  100.00 , 10.00 5.00 , 10.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 15.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 25.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 1.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 25.00  Keams, Sjrt. Robert J._ Kempf, Pf c Kenneth R_ Klotz. Ciirol R Kunkel, Francis L Kurtz. Louis F. Leahy, John K. ___. Lane, L t Joseph M.. Lang. William J McCormick. Richard D.-McKeon. Pv t John J Madden. L t Robert T._ Maher. James J.. Jr. Maloney. Thomas J.-Marcin. Pf c Joseph N.­Martel, Roland J Miller. Ens. Donald J Millett Ens. Robert M_ Morrison. Ens. John H._ Murphy. James L Neaglc. L t Edward F. O'Conndl. Pf c William A O'Donnell, Sgt. James J O'Malley, L t John D Ohofrio, Ralph J O'TooIe, John J Overmeyer, Robert F Pachin, Franklin R  5.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 S.OO 5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 5.00 25.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 10.00 5.00 3.00 5.00  Kohl, Robert C Lawler. John P McCready, Robert J McLaughlin, Pv t Thomas E. McManus, Frank L McSweeney, John E. Mileti, Otto J Newman. Sg t James E — O'Brien. L t James F O'Conndl, John G., Jr O'Connor, L t Edward P-. O'Connor, Pf c Thomas J._ O'Ndll, John J O'Reilly, Joseph T Pamdl, Robert N Phillipoff, Sg t James G_ Pons, Pv t Joseph P. Raff. Robert W Rourke, Danid J. Schmitt Howard J. Schmitz, Sg t Louis E... Schramm, Robert W-. Schroeder, F. C. Segerson, Pv t John P__ Seuffert Donald C Shdiworth, L t Thomas  5.00 10.00 5.00 10.00 2.00 6.00 S.OO 10.00 10.00 2.00 10.00 20.00 3.00 6.00 6.00 20.00 S.00 5.00 6.00 6.00 25.00 25.00 15.00 10.00 5.00 25.00  Barsotti, Louis J 1.00 _$ Crollard. Pfc. Homer A ­5.00 Huxford, James D 2.00 Kelly, Laurence F-. 1.00 Kopf, Sg t Robert M 20.00 McCarthy, John E., Jr.. 100.00 Whitaker, Charles C 500.00 $629.00 Grand Total No, Contrib. $794.00 11 1948 Horin, William K_ _$ 5.00 $5.00 Grand Total No. Contrib. $5.00 I Subscribers Desmond. William J-2.00  
Nelson, L t  Charles F.  S.OO  Pesavento.  L t  Renzo  J..  5.00  Simonson, Cpl. Edward  /  6.00  Hayes. Bryan  I  5.00  
O'Brien, Se t Eugene L. — Paulmann, Frederick H Petersen, L t Donal C Piatt L t Francis J  10.00 5.00 10.00 10.00  Ra>'mond, I^eo F., Jr. Reilly. L t Henry E Riordan. Dr. John F. Rogers, L t Robert M  10.00 25.00 5.00 10.00  Snyder, William T Sochalski, Edwin S Stdlo. L t Albert P Strong. George A..  10.00 6.00 5.00 5.00  Kelly, Richard P 5.00 NJ>. Club of Rhode Island and S. E. Massachusetts 1.000.00  
Reilly. L t Thomas E. Bice, FyO James J Rivdy, Caair M_ Rourke, Pv t Thomas K_ Roy, Ens. Raymond L  5.00 10.00 5.00 5.00 25.00  Russell, Pf c John C. Spangler. Pf c William S.-Spina. Harmon N«__ Terheyden. William A.. Jr._ Thompson. Cpl. George E _  6.00 . 6.00 10.00 10.00 10.00  Sullivan. L t Danid J.-. StilUvan. John F, Sullivan, Richard E Thornton, Pv t John F_ Tomcik, Danid J  10.00 10.00 6.00 6.00 5.00  Grand Total $1,419.17  $1,012.00 No. Contrib. 16  
Scuffert  Joseph  A  5.00  Tracey. John F.  10.00  Vignola,  Ens.  Francis  J ­ 10.00  
Stewart  Peter W. B  5.00  Troup,  L t  John  E.  10.00  Weither,  Charles  F  6.00  
Storek,  Harry  E.. Jr. —  5.00  Tupta,  Sg t  Richard  D.­ 25.00  Wdch,  Pv t  Edward  J  10.00  RECAPITULATION  
Trenkle. • Frederick  A  10.00  Walsh,  Joseph  G  10.00  Wdch,  Cterald ­T  5.00  
TThl, Sg t  Robert  C  20.00  Warner,  John  A., Jr.  25.00  Wleklinski, Norbert  S_  5.00  Total this period  
Walsh.  Thomas  A.. Jr—  5.00  Zagame. Anthony  F.  5.00  Yoklavich, Eugene P.  10.00  I«st previous total  
Whalen.  L t  Richard  T.­ 10.00  Grand  Total  to  date.  
Wojdk, Bernard P. Wright Robert E York, George E  5.00 10 00 10.00  Grand Total 1,570.50  $787.00 No. Contrib. 145  Grand Total $1,447.00  $782.00 Mo.CaBtrib. 1S3  TotalTotal  in Classes——  No. Contributors,  
No. in Classes  %  Contrib.  No. in Classes  %CoBtrib.  Per  Cent  Contributors  
$684.00  323  .449  253  .52e  Average  Contribution  

Br Boyaoad ]. Deoovoa. '4S 
» »



ATHLETICS 
LATER Assuming the role oi tmderdog for the first time in histonr in a season-opener. Coach Hugh Devore's Fighting Irish regis­tered a 7 to 0 triumph over a highly-touted niinoii eleren Sept 29 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Phil Colella. freshman left halfback from Rochester. Pa., tallied the only touchdown oi the game on the first play from scrim­mage in his initial collegiate game as he broke off-tackle and galloped 76 yards for the score. Stanley Krivik. fullback from New York, drop-kicked the extra point and that completed scoring for the day. 
Three times during the contest the Ulini drove deep into Notre Dame territory and once the Irish held for downs on their own one-foot line to take over the ball when it appeared certain that Illinois would score. 
Frank Dancewicz. Bob Skoglund ond Colella stood out both offensively and de­fensively for the Irish, and on defensive play Vincent Scott, guard from LeRoy, N.Y., Bill Fisher, freshman tackle from Chi­cago. Fred Rovai. guard from Hammond. Iad« and Stan Krivik displayed talents that stamp them os men to watch through­out the season. 
Loss of two key men prior to the opening of the season substantially crip­pled the hopes of Coach Hugh Devore for a successful season in his first cam­paign as head grid coach at Notre Dame. 
Captain Frank Szymanski, Detroit senior who was-counted on by the Notre Dame coaching stafl to bolster the line at center, resigned from the squad as fall practice opened as the result of a contract he had signed early this year to play professional football with the Chicago Bears after graduation. Al­though Szymanski's contract later was declared null and void by Commissioner Elmer Layden when it was discovered he was not a free agent, he resigned fol­lowing clarification by Big Ten Commis­sioner Tug Wilson of a ruling forbidding men who have signed professional con­tracts to play college ball. 
The effects of Szymanski's loss bare­ly had worn off when the Navy an­nounced the transfer of Marty Wendell, Chicago sophomore, to Great Lakes. Wendell, a member of the KOTC unit at Notre Dame, performed regularly at the fullback post during most of the 1944 campaign and, along with Szyman­ski, provided a formidable combination in the line-backing department for the Irish. 
To partially fill the gaps created by the departure of these two key perform­ers, Coach Devore moved Tom Walsh, a 6:2%-212 pound freshman from Phillips-burg, N. J., into the first-string center berth, and elevated Frank Buggerio, hard-driving 200-pounder from Orange, 
N. J., to the first-team fullback post. John Panelli, Morrislown, N. J., sopho­more, was shifted from right halfback to fullback to assist Buggerio. 
The Irish, as this is written, are to open the season against Illinois with Bob Skoglund, Chicago ROTC trainee, at left end; Ed Mieszkowski, Chicago jun­ior, at left tackle; John Mastrangelo, Vandergrift, Pa., junior, at left guard; Walsh at center; Fred Rovai, Hammond, Ind., senior, at right guard; Pete Berez­ney, Jersey City, N. J., senior, at right tackle; and Bill Leonard, Youngstown, O., freshman, at right end. 
Frank Dancewicz, Lynn, Mass., senior, who was named captain of the 1945 Irish after Szymanski's resignation, will spark the team this year from the quarterback post. Phil Colella, Rochester, Pa., fresh­man, holds the key to much of the poten­tial Notre Dame success as he stands out as the only capable runner at right half­back. Elmer Angsman, Chicago senior, will carry the burden at left halfback this season where he was shifted by Coach Devore from fullback where he 
Capt. Dancewicz and Coach Davora 
performed brilliantly last season. Sng­gerio, at fiillbaek, completed the Irish baekfield. 
On the same day that Szymanski an­nounced his resignation from the aqoad, baekfield Coach Gene Sonzani came forth with the announcement that he had re­signed to return to his duties as quiurter­back and «>acfa of the Chicago Bears professional squad. 
Within a few days, however, announce­ment was made that Joe ^eeketski, '33, star Irish halfback in the early '30's and former hiead football coach at Holy Cross college, had been signed to coach the Notre Dame baekfield. Sheeketski, a na­tive of Shadyside, O., was a right half­back on Irish teams in 1931 and 1932 and served as assistant to Eddie Ander­son at Holy Cross from 1933 to 1939, when he assumed head coaching duties. After three years as chief of the Cru­saders, Joe resigned to join the F.BJ. He remained with the government untQ January of this year when he entered private business in Cleveland.' 
To add to the general upheaval of the Notre Dame football squad, ll-yearold Clashmore Hike, veteran Irish-terrier mascot, died of old age two weeks before . the opening of the season. A new Irish terrier pup, Clashmore Hike II, was pre­sented to the University by James J. HcGam^hy of Chicago, for - many years a devoted follower of Notre Dame's athletic fortunes. 
Outlook for the season, with Szyman­ski and Wendell in the lineup, was nm­ther gloomy nor bright. It appeared that Notre Dame would hold its own with most college competition this season. With the defensive stars gone, however, the situation is uncertain. Illinois defi­nitely has one of the stronger teams in the Big Nine, loaded with vetieran per­formers both in the line and-baekfield: Pittsburgh, during the past several sea­son "breathers" for the. Irish, has come up with a good passing attack and held Illinois to a 23-6 decision at Champaign in the season-opener. Georgia Tech re­portedly is coming up with another of its consistently good ball clubs, while the Irish will be fighting the Iowa "jinTT* when Coach Clem Crowe brings his elev-, en to Notre Dame Stadium on Oct. 27. . Northwestern supposedly hit hard by graduation this year, got off to an im­pressive start against a tong^ lowm State eleven, while Dartmouth and Great Lakes remain unknown quantities. Army and Navy, of course, can be expected to be as tough as last season, if not tough­er, when they belted the Irish for their only losses of the campaign. 
Joe Sheeketski, '33 EifectiTe Late Arrival 

The picture appears unexpectedly dark at this writing, but may improve as the season progresses if a few of the young­sters on the Irish. squad can come through in tough competition. 
BASKETBALL 
The 1945-46 basketball season was ofiScially opened at Notre Dame on Oct. 2, when Elmer Ripley, new head coach, took charge of a squad of nearly 100 men who reported in answer to his call for the start of practice. 
Kipley has had outstanding success in the past as head coach at Georgetown, Columbia and Yale. The new coach is fa­miliar with the ability of only one player on the squad—Bill Hassett, AU-Ameri­can guard of last year who as a fresh­man was a member of Ripley's N.C.A.A. champions at Georgetown. 
Prospects for a strong team at Notre Dame are the brightest in years, with four regulars from last year's team, which broke all Notre Dame single game and season scoring records, again avail­able, plus an Ail-American Irish star of two years ago who will resume his stud­ies at the semester opening in November. 
The four men available from last year's team are, besides Hassett, Frank Gilhooley, Johnny Dee and George Rat­terman. The returning star is Leo Klier, recently placed on an inactive status by the Na\'y in which he had served for more than a year. There is no center in that group as Vince Boryla, 18-year-old freshman who shattered all Notre Dame individual scoring records last season, is now enrolled at the United States Naval academy at Annapolis. 
In Klier, Ratterman and Dee, Coach Ripley knows he has three experienced forwards, while Gilhooley and Hassett are outstanding as guards. His immedi­ate job, therefore, will be to find a cen­ter, and it might be that he will eventu­ally use either Ratterman or Klier at that spot; it depends upon what Ripley discovers among the new center candi­dates. 
The Irish schedule for 1945-46 has not yet been completed. 
FOOTBALL PARTIES 

ARMY PRE-GAME RALLY. The Notre Dame Club of New York, spon­sors. 8 P.M., Friday, November 9. Main Ballroom Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Price $3 (tax included). Ed Sullivan, chair­man of entertainment committee and' master of ceremonies. James F. Dwyer, Club president; Tiemey O'Rourke and Harvey Daly, co-chairmen of the Rally. 
Reservations chairman, John A. Hoyt, Jr., Notre Dame Club of New York City, Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York, N. Y. Francis "Bugs" Walther's music. 
PITTSBURGH. The Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania is planning a pre-game rally, October 19, in the Royal York Hotel. 
The Notre Dame Club of the St. Jo­seph Valley will sponsor one smoker only this Fall, the night before the Iowa game, Friday, October 26. The annual football banquet will be held in the Notre Dame Dining Halls on December 4. 
The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland will hold a rally the night before the Navy game, Friday, November 2. 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago is tentatively planning a pre-Northwestern rally the week-end of November 16. 
And the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans has a party planned in New Or­leans for Saturday night, following the Tulane game, on November 24, at the St. Charles Hotel. 
Details on most of the above were not available at press time but can be se­cured through Club oflScers by interested alumni. 
(In 
DARTMOUTH GAME WJJD, Chicago WBBM, Chicago WGN, Chicago WOWO, Ft. Wayne WSBT, South Bend WGAR, Cleveland 
PITTSBURGH GAME WJJD, Chicago WBBM, Chicago WOWO, Ft. Wayne WSBT South Bend WGAR, Cleveland KDKA, Pittsburgh 
NAVY GAME NBC, national network CBS, national network ABC, national network WJJD, Chicago WGN, Chicago WBBM, Chicago WOWO, Ft. Wayne WSBT, South Bend WGAR, Cleveland 


REMAINING BROADCASTS, 1945 
complete List) 
ARMY GAME NBC, national network, exclusively 
NORTHWESTERN GAME WBBM, Chicago WJJD, Chicago WGN, Chicago WOWO, Ft. Wayne WSBT, South Bend WGAR, Cleveland 
TULANE GAME WSBT, South Bend WJJD, Chicago ABC, national network 
GREAT LAKES GAME CBS, national network WSBT, South Bend WGAR, Cleveland WJJD, Chicago WBBM, Chicago WGN, Chicago WOWO, F t Wayne 
Volume 23, No. 5, October, 1945 
Cincinnati, O.. N.; Glnabnrc, Daniel, ex. '47, Detroit. Mich., killed in action. M.: Gteaaon, 

ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN* 
Robert W., Lt. Milwaokee, Wis.. M.; Gonzalei;' 
Key to letter with each name: A— Army; N—^Navy; M—^Marines; MM— Merchant Marine. 
Adelbers, Harold, ex. '41, 2nd I>t., Benton Harbor, A.; Ahern, Frances M., '45, Hartford, Conn., N.; A'Hearn, Theodore J., Pvt., ex. '46, Midland, Pa., A. Alexander, Guido A., Pfc, '44, Columbus, O.. A.; Anderson, Arthur L., Ens., '45, Ault. Colo., N.; Anderson. Buane G., Lt.. ex. '47, Weiser, Ida., M.: Anderson, Rudolph P., Ens., '45, Brooklyn, N. Y., N. Andrews, James C, Ays, '45, Central City, la., N. 
B 

Babb, Timothy E., Ens., '45, Memphis, Tenn., N.; Baddour, Raymond F., AyS, '45, Laurin­burff, N. C, N.: Barb, John M., '45, Camden, 
U. J., N.; Barry, Vincent W., Ens., ex. '44, New Haven, Conn., N.; Bassett, James B., ex. '43, Toledo, O., killed in action, A. Bateman, Richard T., '45, Kenmore, N. T., N.; Bauch­man, Robert W., Lt, '43, Idaho Falls, Ida., N".; Bearman, Sol S., Clayton, ilo., M.; Bene­dict, Thomas C, Marion, la., N.; Bernard, Benedict W., MOMM 1/c, ex. '45, Youngstown, O., N.; Bevlngton, William S., AyS., '45, Nash­ville, Tenn., N.; Billinghurst, Richard, SySgt., ex. '45, Santa Ana, Calif., A.; Boland, James F., ex. '45, South Bend, Ind., medical dis­charge, N.: Bolger, Stephen G., Fhlla., Pa., N.; Bonflglio, John P., Ty5, '43, Coldwater, Mich., A.; Bottle, Arthur A., Brooklyn, N. Y., N. 
Bracken, William A., Ens., '45, Brooklyn, N. T., N.; Brady, John T., T/5, ex. '45, LeRoy, Ji. Y., A.; Brady, William J., Pfc, ex. '43, Oak Park, 111., A.; Brennan, Gerard J., Kings­bury Ord., Ind., N.; Brlngman, Norman A., Lt., ex. '42, Lakcwood, O., A.; Brosius, Charles T., Pvt., '38, Lime Kiln, Md., A.: Brower, Floyd E., Lt., '3S, Syracuse, 111., N.; Brown, Harry S., Sgt., ex. '43, Berrien Springs, Mich.. A.; Brown, John R., MySgt., '29, Racine, Wis., A.; Bro«-ne, Robert T., Lt. (Je), '38, Peoria. 111., missing in action, N.; Brozo, John G., '45, New Augusta, Ind., A.; Bryant, Robert A.. Ens., Highland Park. 111., N.; Byrne, Joseph M., Cpl., ex. '45, Newark, N. J.. A. 
Carmody, Thomas M., Ens., '45, Chicago, N.; Caron, John B., '45, Rocheile, 111., N.; Carroll, Gerald E., SySgt., ex. '41, Bay City, Mich., A.; Carroll, John L., Ens., QX. '44, Flemington, 
N. J., N.; earlier, Warren A., "45, Ludington, Mich., N.; Cartwright, David R., Ens., '45, Elwood City, Pa., N.; Cassidy, John E., '45, Peoria, 111., N.; Cennl, Louis J., Lt. (jg), '40, Worchester, Mass., N.; Champion, Bavid J., Ens., '45, Cleveland, O., X.; Chudzinski, Gerard J., Lt. (Jg), Fremont. O., N.: Cisle, Donald S., '45, Hamilton, O., N.; Claeys, Donald H., '45, South Bend, Ind., N.; Clarke, William A., Pfc, e.x. '45, Lee, Mass., A.; Clarj-, John R., 
~'45, Steubcnville, O., N.; Clemency, William M., Ens., '45, Brooklyn, N. Y., N. 
Cochran, Daniel W., Ens., '38, Wheeling, 
W. Va., N.; Collins, Norbert J., '31, Yonkers, 
N. Y., A.; Connors, Arthur B., '45, Needham, Mass., N.; Converse. Francis X., Cpl., ex. '46, Billings, Mont., A.; Collins, Robert W., AyC, '43, 
* Increosinc names and decreasing available space oumblned to make necassary a condensa­tion in this section of the 'Alamnas,' with the resDlt that yoa »ee here In the 571 names listed. It should be recalled that » name Is used only once in ''Additional Service Men/' when the AInmni Office flist bears that the man is in service. 
Xaajr of the men listed here are former V-IS stodeots in the University. Since their status tf alnmnl remains to be deflned, a class year for each of them has been omitted. 
Chicago, III., A.; Collins, Ramsay A., Q.M. 2/c, ex. '34, Utica. N. Y., N.; Cosgrove, Thomas P., S 1/c, ex. '43, Chicago, N.; Costello, John W.; Lt., ex. '44, Wilmette. 111., A.; Crapo. Charles D., Ens., ex. '44, Denver, Colo., N.; Crawford, Robert H., Sgt, ex. '45, South Bend, Ind., A.; Crollard, Homer A., Pf c ex. '46, Wenatchee, Wash., A.; Crollard. Louis J., RT 2yc, '31-'41, Wenatchee, Wash., N.; Cronin, . Mark A., '45, Chicago, 111., N.; Cronin, Robert P., '45, Hartford City. Ind., N.; Cull, Edward F., ex. '45, Chicago Heights, 111., MM.; Cun­ningham. Thomas M., '45, Bloomington, 111., N.; Currier, Desmond P., Ens., '45, Detroit, Mich., N.: Currier, Donald F., AyS, '38, Detroit, Mich., N. 
Daniels. James S., Lt, ex. '43, Lockport, N. Y., A.; Daiker, Herbert C. '45, Utlca, N. Y., N.; Davey, Hugh J., Ens., Frankfort, Ind., N.; DeVrles, John A.. Ens., '45, Roselle, N. J., N.; Decot, Valentine P., Lt (jg), ex. '45, Snyder, 
N. Y., N.; Desmond, John D., 1st Lt, ex. '44, Chicago, A.; Dillman, Leslie W., Sgt, ex. '45, KoKomo, Ind., A.; Birr, Charles H., 2nd Lt, Sioux City, la., M.; Dolan, James M.. Ens., '45, Oklahoma City, Okla., N.; Doran, Thomas L., Ens., '45, Butte, Mont, N.; Dorr, Thomas W., Pfc, ex. '43, Wauwatosa, Wis., A. 
Doyle, Joseph P., S 2yc, ex. '46, South Bend, Ind., N.; Doyle, Owen W., AyS, '45, BuSalo, 
N. Y., N.; Drlscoil, Donald B., L t (Jg), '40, Washington, D. C, N.: DuBois, Benjamin G., L t Col., South Bend, Ind., A.; Duffy, Francis D., e-x. '45, Ens., Duryea, Pa., N.; Duffy, Ray­mond T., Lt., '43, East Liverpool, O., A.; Duffy, Robert T., '44, Cleveland, O., A.; Dully, Bertram J., '45, Hartford, Conn., N. 
Eckstein, Roland J., Pfc, ex. '44, Lakewood, O., A.; Eidson, Walter J.. Sgt., '45, Berrien Springs, Mich., A.; Elliott, John J., Ens., '45, Newark, K J., N.; Bngel, Henry K., Lt (jg), '40, Indianapolis, Ind., N.; Engel, James M., Pfc, ex. '43, Albany, N. Y., A.: Erkins. Robert A., '45. Fort Lauderdale, Fla., N.; Evorik, John J., Cpl., Garj-. Ind., M. 
Fearheiley, Robert C, RM 3yc, Mt. Carmel, 111., N.; Fenlon, Edward E., Cpl., ex. '41, Washington, D. C, A.; Fenton, John L., Pfc, ex. '45, Canton, O., A.; Fisher, Joseph P., Ens., '45, Coraopolis. Pa., N.: Fitzpatrick, Michael J., 1st Lt, ex. '43, Alpena, Mich., A.; Fitz­patrick, Robert J., Lt., '41, Dannemora, N. Y., A.; Fiach, William J., Ens., '45, New Hyde Park. L. I., N. Y., N.; Foley, Donal J., RT 3yc, Wlnthrop, Mass.. N.; Foltz, Sidney A., Pvt, ex. '45, Mansfield. O., A.; Ford, James W., Lt., ex. '43. Wilmette, III., A.; Ford, Ray J., 1st Lt., ex. '33, Watertown, Mass., A.; Ford, William F., ex. '44. Wilmette, 111., honor­able discharge: Ford, William T., Lt. (jg), ex. '43, Blnghamton, N. Y., N.; Fordyce, Ed­mund J., Pvt, ex. '45, Gilman, 111., A.; Foarmy, Thomas J., Cpl., ex. '44, Houston, Tex., A.: Fowler, Cornelius A., Lt, ex. '45, Sleepy Eye, Minn., M.; Frailey. Henry F., '45, Lancast­er, Pa., N.; Frank, Carlos H., Lt (jg), '33, Snyder, N. Y., N.; Frost, Earl Vernon, '45, Collinsvllle, III., N.; Funsch, Robert E.. Pfc, ex. '44, Richmond Heights, Mo., A. 
Gainer, John J., '35, Wood River, 111., A.; Galvln, Robert W., ex. '44, Evanston, 111., dis­charged from service: Ganey, Harry J., ex. '44, Crystal Lake, III., N.; Gardner, LeRoy E., Ty3, ex. '44, Rockland, Mass., A.: Gelber, Melvin W., Ens., '44, Hackensack, New Jersey,, N,; Gibson, William E., Lt (jg), '37, Grand Rapids, Mich., N.; Gllligan, Francis J., Ens:, '45, Cin-" cinnati, O., N.: Gllligan, Harry J., Ens., '45, Ancel .T., EM 2/c '43, Dallas,' Tex.,.N.: GoqIey,' James P., Ens.. '45, Sonth Bend, Ind.. N.; Gorrell, David H., lat Lt , ex. '46, Sonth Bend. Ind., A.; Gotta. Bernard E., Ens., ,*4S, Fort Wayne, Ind., N.; Gowan, Donovan W., aySft, ex. '44, Ortonvllle, Minn., M. 
Graham. Frederick C. Mlnneapolla, Mlnn.,­N.; Grant. WiUiam F.. Ens., '45, Erie, Pa.. N.; Griesedleck, 'William H.. CpL. ex. '46. St. Louis, Mo., A.; Griffin, Robert K., Ens., '4S, Bridi;eport. Conn.. N.; Grondalski, Steven X, ' Sgt, ex. '45, Monndsvllle, W. Va., A.; Gschwend^ Robert V. Ens., ex. '44, Canton, o., H.; Gnerin. Harold D., I,t, ex. '40, Wingdale, N. T.. N.; Guiney, Francis M., Ens., '45. Floral Fk, N. T., N., Guthrie, John M.. Pfc, '45, South Bend, Ind.. A.; Guyton. Ralph J., Lt, Franklin, Pa., A. 
H 

Haas, Arthur G., '45, South Bend, Ind., N.: Haggar. Joseph M.. '45, Dallas, Tex., N.: Hac­gerty, Robert J., Capt, '30, Toledo, O., A.: Handlan. Edward K.. Ens., '45, S t Louis, Mo.,' N.; Harriman, Gerald E., ex. '47, Vermillion, 
S. D.. N.; Hart. Richard 6., Saginaw, Mich.,' N.; Hastings, Charles T., Ens., '45, Port Huron, Mich.. N.: Healy. Robert M., L t (Jg), ex. '47, Chicago, N.; Hecht, Vernon S., Ens., '45, Racine. Wis., N.; Hiemenx, Arthur C Ens., '45, Clayton. Mo., N.; Henderson, Floyd R.. SySgt.. ex. '44. Chicago. A.; Herrington, Robert W.. Pvt, '43, Bnrbanlc Calif., A.; Hicsins, John P., Ens., ex. '46, Normandy, Mo., N.; Holmes, Ralph 6., Marinette, Wis., N.; Holz­berger, Philip C, Pfc. '45, Jamaica, L. L, 
N. Y., A.; Hoover, Henry A.. Ens., '45, Sonth Bend, Ind., Jr.; Hopkins. John A.. S/Sgt, '3S. Elizabeth; N. J., A.; Hosbeln, John VT., AyS., '45, N.; Huber, Joseph J., Pfc, '41, Flushins, 
N. T., A. 
Jaeger. Bernard F., Lt. (jg), '41, Minneapolis. Minn., N.': Jann, Roy A., Chicago, N.; Jeschks, George J., '45, Park Ridge, HL, N.; Johnson. Barton B.. Cpl., ex. '46, Merion, Pa., A.: Joiin­son, John J., '45, Pleasant Ridge, Mich., M. 
Kaminsky. Edward J., CpL, ex. *45, Knlp* mont. Pa., A.; Keenan, William Q., Oyc, ex. '43, Chevy Chase, Md., A.; Kellow, Willfaun T., Ays, '45, Geneva, N. Y., N.; Kelly, Lanrence P., A.R.T. 3/c, ex. '46, Rochester, N. T., N.; Kennedy, Joseph M., Pvt, Forest Hills, I.. L, 
N. T.. A.; Kerrigan, Thomas J„ Sgt, '30, Chi­cago, A.; Klener, Francis E., L t (Jg). '42, Rocky River, O., N.; Klrby, Arthur C. '26. Monroe, Mich., honorable discharge. A.; Klem, William H., '45. Lakeland. Fla., N.; Kller, Leo A.. Lt (Jg). ex. '45, Washington. Ind., N.; Knorr, John A., Ens., '45, Kittanlng, Pa., N.; Kraft, Joseph J., Sgt. ex. '44, Chicago. A.; Kramer. John A., Ens.. '45, Taylor, Pa., N.; Kremer, Joseph C, Lt. (Jg), '43, Detroit, Mich., N.; Kristan, Julius R.. '39, Walllngford. Conn„ MM.; Kunz, J. Jacob, Ens., *35, Oconomowac, Wla, N. 
Lange, Louis A., Pvt, '36, Fond da Lac Wis., A.; Lauck. Joseph A., Ens.. '45. Glendale, Calif., N.; Lanrlta. Vincent G.. Ens., '45, College Point, N. T.. N.: Lanth, Lonis F., Ensi, '4S, Burlington, la., N.; La very. John R., EnsL. '45. Jacksonville, IlL, N.: LaVlgne, Ernest F„ T/5, '39. Geneseo, N. T., A.; Leahy, John C . Ens., ex. '45, Casper, IVyo., N.; Leahy, John E., Lt. ex. '45, Chicago, M.; Leclcie, Charles D., Minneapolis, Minn., killed in action, M.: Lelte. Richard-J., '45. Fremont. O.. N.; Lelt­heiaer. William J.. Clearwater, Fla., medical discharge; Leon, Richard C, 2nd. Lt, ex. '44, Mexico, O.F.. Mez;, AT; Lesmez, Alvaro. V.. 
Pvt, '45, Jackson Hts.. N. T., A. 
Link, Urban E., 'ii, Grcensbure. Ind.; Lltz­slneer, Ralph A., Pfc, St. Louis. Mo., M.; Loes. Philip A.. Ens., '43, Detroit, llich., N.; Lone, Daniel TV., Ens., "45, Cleveland, O., N.; Loomes, William J., Lt.. '27, Rawlings, Wyo.; Lopker, Robert A., St. Joseph, Jlich.. N.; Lounsberry, Eugene P.. Lt., *36, Mansfield, O., N.; LUEton, Charles R., Ens., '45, Pine, Colo., N.; Lulgs, Adrian M., Pfc, ex. '45, Paducah, Kj-., A.; Luke, Robert D., 2nd Lt., '45. Marion, O., M. 
M 
MacLaUBhlln. Harry E., Ens., '45, Oak Park, III., N.: Madden, Robert T., Lt. Ue), "43, New Hartford, N. T., N.; Malarney. Robert D., Lt. (JB), '36, '37, South Bend, Ind., X.; Manean. Thomas J., Pfc, Morris, Minn., M.: Manion, Albert P., Ens., ex. '47, Chicago, X.; Manu­szak, Thomas R., O/C, ex. '45, South Bend, Ind., A.; Manyak, Thaddeus J., Ty5, ex. '40, Flint, Mich., A.: Marks. ClllTord D.. .\/S, '45, ChicaBO. N.; Martin, Byron E., '4.=;. Lyons. III.. N.; Matracla, Joseph J., ex. '37, Craw­fordsv-ille, Ind., A.; Maurer, Robert H., '45, Monroe, Mich., N. 
McCabe. James W.. T/Sgt.. '40. Johnson City. 
N. Y., A.; McCabe, Richard R.. Cpl., ex. '44, PouBhkeepsle. N. r.. A.; McCabe, Thomas A., AV.M.M. 2/c, '40, Springfield, L. I., N. Y., N.; McCallister, William R., T/5. ex. '43. Charles­ton. W, Va., A.; McCarthy, Robert J., S/SBt., ex. '45, National City, Calif.. A.; McCarty. Patrick F., '3S, Toledo, O.. A.; McCarty, Robert J., Ens., ex. '46, Saeinaw, Mich.. N.: McCauslin, Charles J., T/3, ex. '45, South Bend, Ind., A.; McBlliBott, Thomas P.. S 2yc. Chicago. X.; McGlew. James A.. 1st Lt., '45, TOUUBS-town, O., A. 
McCrane John F., Ens., '15, Brooklyn. N. Y., N.; Michels. Albert J., A/S. '45, East Liverpool. O.. N.; Michels, Andrew J., Cpl., ex. '43, Mishawaka, Ind., medical discharge, killed in automobile accident. A.; Miller, Francis B.. '45, Toledo, O., N.; Moerschbaecher, Joseph M., Pfc, ex. '46, Chicago, A.; Monahan, Edward J., Ens., '42, Jersey City, X. J., X.; Moore, William W.. '40, Plainfield. X'. J.. X.; Mosca. Alfon B., Xorfolk, Va., X.; Mudge, Charles S.. Ens., St. Charles. Mo., X.; Mulhern. Thomas F., Ens., '45, Brooklyn, X. Y., X.; Mulligan, John P., SJSgt-, ex. '37, Lake Village. Ark.. A.; Murphy. George D., '45. Wilmette. III., X.; Murphy, Robert C, Ens., "43, Beloit, Wis., X.: Murphy, William J., T/Sgt., '42, Chicago, A. 
N 
Nash, Francis P., '45, Clinton, 111., A.; Xau­man, Robert T., St. Louis. Mo.. X.; Xelson, Clifford A.. Ens., Lodl, Wis., X.; Xelson, Wil­liam A., Ens., '45, LaPorte, Ind., N.; Xenno, Robert P., AyS, "43, Chicago. 111.. X.; Xern. William F.. TySgt., ex. '41, Detroit, Mich., A.; Newell, Robert L;, Ashland, 111., X.; Xolan, James R., ex. '48, Chicago, A.: Xolan, Thomas E., '45, Chicago, X. 

Obermlller, William J., Y s/c, "45, Whiting, Ind., N.: O'Brien, Gerard J., '45, San Diego, Calif., N.; O'Brien. James F., Lt. (jg), -44, Avoca, Pa., N.; O'Brien, John J., '45. N. T. C, N.; O'Brien, J. P. D., Lt. (jg), '41. Sioux Citj-, la,, N.; O'Brien. Robert S., Ens., '45, Canton, O., N.; O'Brien. William V., Sgt.. '38, Little Rock, Ark., A.; O'Connor, James A., Ens., '45. Fort Wayne, Ind., N.; O'Donnell, Daniel A., Ens., '45, Trenton, N. J., N.; Oester, Yvo T., Lt., '31, M.S., '33, Chicago, A.; O'Hearn, Aldan F., Ens., '34, Chicago, N.; Oppenheim. Theodore v., Lt., ex. '45, Coldwater, C, A.; O'Reilly. Martin G., Lt. (Jg), '42, Chicago, killed In action, N.; O'Rourke, James J., Ens., ex. '4G, Chicago, N. 
Parsons, James L., Ens., '37. Plymouth. Ind.. N.: Payne, Henrj-, B., Ens., '45, Owensboro. 
Ky., N.: Peloso, Thomas J.. Cpl., ex. '45, Port Huron, Mich., A.; Pcndarvls, Francis X., '45, Houston, Tex., N.; Perry, William M., Ens., '45, Long Beach, N. Y., N.; Peters, Harry Sassln, F/O, SUtervIlle, V/. Va., A.: PIsanko, Henry J., '45, Trenton, N. J., N.; Posey, John T.. Sgt.. ex. '46. Henderson. Ky., A.; Powers, James F., New London, Conn., K.; Prokes, Francis A., Sgt., ex. '46, Jackson, Minn., A.; Propst, John L., Lt., Sheldon, la., killed in action, SI.; PuccI, Glno L., Ens., '45, Westwood, 
N. J., X. 
Quimby, Edward A., 1st Lt., '39, White Plains, N. Y.. A. 
Racykowski. Leonard I., Chicago, N.; Rahaim, Frederick J., CSp. (a), '31, Jacksonville, Fla., X.; Rau, Eugene G., Lt., '33, Cranford, N. J., N.; Rawls, William L., Pvt., ex. '46, North Little Rock. Ark.. M.: Ray, Robert G., Nor­wood, O., X.; Rdzok. Edward J., Ens., ex. '45, Chicago, X*.; Reedy, James P., Oak Park, 111., X.; Reilly, Charles J., Cpl., ex. '46, Brook­lyn, X. Y., A.; Reilly, V.-illiam F., Cpl., ex. '45, Brooklyn. X'. Y., A ; Relnert, John E., ex. '45, Wilmette, 111., A.; Reiss, Thomas J., 1st Lt., Lake Placid, X. Y., A.; Reltz, John A., South Bend, Ind.. M.; Rejent, Casimer S., Ens., ex. '40, Toledo, O., X. 
Rice, Donald L., Pfc, Roxana, 111., M.; Rice, John T., South Bend, Ind., X.; Rich, William L., Lt., Brooklyn, X. Y., M.; Richards. Dana P.. Riverside, Calif.. X.; Richardson. Robert D., Shelbyville, III., N.; Richardson, Robert O., Gallatin, Mo.. X.; Riepenhoff, Louis A.. Pfc. Dayton, O., A.; Riglcy, Robert L., M/Sgt., '30, South Bend, Ind., A.; Rigoni. Donald L., Lockport, III. 
Riley. William E.. Ens.. Oak Park. 111.. N.; RiUBWald. Clifford W.. ex. '45. Chicago, A.; Ritter, Leo J., 2nd Lt.,ex. '43, Detroit, Mich.. A.; Roach, Charles H., T/SgL, ex. '46, Grand Rapids, Mich., A.; Roach, John W., Lt., ex. *25, Madison, Wis., Lt.; A.; Robertson, William F., Cpl., Beatrice, Xeb., M.; Roche, Paul E.. S/Sgt., ex. '46, Athol, Mass., A.; Rock, John M., Anderson, Ind., X.; Rockis, John J., Capt., ex. '40, Morgantown, W. Va., A.: Roddy, Jack W., Slinneapolls, Minn., X.; Rodibaugh, James E., South Bend, Ind., X. 
Rogers, DouBlas H., Ens., X. Y. C, N.; RoBcrs, Francis A., Greenfield, Mass., discharged from ser\-Ice; RoBers, John C, Pvt., ex. '46, Oak Park, III., A.; Rohan, Andrew J.. Pfc, ex. '45, Cincinnati, O., M.; Rohan, Howard A., SySgt., ex. '40, Cincinnati, A.; Rohrer, Dallas Lee, Goshen, Ind., N.; Romeo, Alesslo A., Sgt., ex. '44, Uniontown, Pa., A.; Romlto, Walter R-. Y 3yc, ex. '44, Ravenna, O., N.; Ronan, John P., T/Sgt., ex. '44. DeKalb, III., A. 
Rooney, Charles H., Sgt., Weed, Calif., M.; Roose, Willis A., Nappanee, Ind., X.; Roque, Warren P., Q M. 3/c, ex. *44, Cranston, R. I., X.; Rosanelll, OUndo, W., Pfc, '45, Brooklyn, 
X. Y., A.; Rossi, Arthur J., Corona, L. I., N. Y., N.; Roth, Charles A., Aurora, 111, X.; Rott, Francis N., T/5, ex. '40, Richland Center, Wis., A.; Roush, Corwln D.. Dayton, O., N.; Roy, Robert A., Lt., '27, Shreveport, La., N.; Rud. Joseph P., Pfc, '44, Chicago, A.; Rukavina, Louis, West Allls, Wis., X.; Russell, John C, Pfc, '43, Lcwiston. Me., A.; Rutledge. Bernard J., Ens., ex. '45, Rosedale, L. I., N. Y., N.; Ryan. Donald H., 1st Lt., ex. '42, Chicago, A.; Ryan, Gerald C, Lt., Grand Porks, N. D., M.; Ryan, John P., Larchmont, X. Y.. A.; Ryan, Lawrence V., 2nd Lt., St. Paul, Minn., M.; Ryan, William F., Pvt., Chicago, A.; Ryerson, Edwin H., Ens., Jefferson, la., X. 
Sabo, Stephen A., ex. '40, South Bend, Ind.. A.; Salmon, John L., Memphis, Tenn., N.; Samojedny, Edward F., Plainfleld, N. J., N.; Sampierre. Edward A. HA lyc, ex. '45, Sagi­
naw, Mich., N.; Sanflllppo, Francis, ex. '44, Rhlnebeck. N. Y., discharged from service: Santiano, Louis, 2nd Lt., ex, '46, Providence, 
R. 1., A.; Santini, William T., Sgt., ex. '45, 
N. Y. C. A.; Sarb. Gerard F., Cpl., ex. '45, Detroit, Mich., A.; Sattler, James J., Pfc, ex. "45, Toledo, O., A.; Savage, Alfred F., Duluth, Minn., M.; Sawicz, Leonard P., Pfc, ex. '45, Lackawanna, N. Y., A.; Saxon. George E., Lt, ex. '42, Memphis, Tenn., N.; Sayers, John R., '45, Hackensack, N. J.. N. 

Scarcia, William, Cpl.. Saxton, Pa., A.; Schaad, James J., T/Sgt., Knoxville, Tenn., A.; Schaaf, Edward J., Ens., ex. '45, Jasper, Ind., N.; Schaaf, Norbert J., Jasper, Ind., M.; Schaefer. John H., F/O. ex. '45. Dearborn. Mich., A.; Schantz. George F.. Cpl.. ex. '39, BInghamton, N Y., A.: Schaub, Robert E., Ens., ex. '46, Passaic, N. J., N.; Schellenberg, Robert W,, ex. '46, Arlington, Va., N.; Scherer, Thomas A., Pvt., ex. '45, Tulsa, Okla., A.; Scherrer, Daniel F., ex. '45, Kansas City, Kan., N.; Schiel, Robert N.. '45, Toledo, O., N.; Schilling, Richard J., Pfc. ex. '47, Hannibal, Mo., A.} Schiltz. Richard A.. Pfc. ex. '43, Billings, Mont., killed in action. M.; Schimmel­pfenning, Robert W., Boonvllle, Ind.. X.; Schlag, Albert R., Cpl., Chicago, M.; Schmidt, Calvin R., Elmore. O., M.; Schmidt. Robert W-, 2nd Lt., St. Cloud, Minn., M.; Schmitt, George v., ex. '46, South Bend, Ind.. X.; Schoen, Sanford J., Lt.. Chicago, M.; Sclircl­ber, Thomas E., Pfc, ex. '45, ^Vheeiing, W. Va.. A.: Schroeder, Howard E., Ens., , Milwaukee, Wis., N.; Schroeter, John A., 1st Lt., ex. '44, University Heights, 0-, A.; Schrom, Gerald A., Lt., ex. '43, Rockford, 111., A.; Schroven, Chas. E., Pfc, Hilbert, Wis., M.; Schultz, Kenneth H., Ays, "45, Kewanee, III., X.; Schwartzel. John C, Ens., '38, Xew Albany, Ind., X.; Scully, Michael R., Lt., '37, Bridgeport, Conn., N. 
Shannon, Francis J., Pfc, ex. '45, Kenosha, Wis., A.; Shaul. Robert, 2nd Lt., Terre Haute, Ind., A.; Shea, Stephen A., Los Angeles. Calif., N.; Shea, William J., 1st Lt., ex. '43, Evans­ton, 111., A.; Sheahan, John P., Ens., Milwau­kee, Wis., N.; Sheehan, Thomas J., S 1/c, ex. '45, New Haven, Conn., X.; Shelley, Walter A.. 1st LL, ex. '29, Palatka, Fla., A.; Shellworth, Thomas R., Lt. (Jg), '44, Portland, Ore., X.; Shepley, George A., 2nd Lt., Joliet, III., M.; Sherburne, William L., Milwaukee, Wis., M.; Sheridan, James C. Cpl.. ex. '45, Manhasset, 
N. Y., A.; Sheridan, John B., Ens., St. Louis, Mo., N.; Shiamanna, Lido P.. Rock Springs, Wyo., discharged veteran; Shimon. Howard J., Pfc, Pocahontas, la.. A.; Shoemaker, Troy A., South Lebanon, O., N.; Shomin, George H., Escanaba, Mich., M.; Shroyer, Virgil E., Lt., Ironton, Minn., M. 
Siemens, Ralph E., Toledo, O., M.; Silha, Elmer D., Cpl., ex. '44, Chicago, A.; Slmonet, EBward Wleland, Ens., Stillwater, Minn., N.; Siinonet, Joseph M., Stillwater, Minn., A.; Stmonson, Edward A., Cpl., '44, Fargo, N. D., X^; Simpson, William, 2nd Lt., Narbeth, Pa., Ai;' Sisson, Benjamin D., Ens., Albany, Wi?., N.-; Skall, Donald P., Pfc, ex. '43, Appleton, Wis., A.; Skinner, Zane, Simsboro, La., N.; Skofronck, Gerald E., T/5, ex. '44. Bessemer. Mich., A.; Slamin, Henry A., Jr., Ens., '45, WInnetka, HI., N.; Slattery, John H., Pfc, South Norwalk, Conn., A,; Slupesky, Francis W., Indianapolis, Ind., N. 

Small, Lawrence E., West Orange, N. J., N.; Smejkal, Charles J., ChicaBo, 111.,. N.; Smiddy, William E., Sgt., Jackson Heights, L. I., N. Y., A.; Smith, David L., Ens., LaCrosse, Wis., N.; Smith, Francis A., Cpl., ex. '45, Worcester, Mass,, A.; Smith, Henry J., Ens., ex. '45, St. Louis, Mo., N.; Smith, Jacob A., Skokie, HI., N.; Snee, Robert W., '45, Massillon, O., N.; Solze, Robert L., 2nd Lt, ex. '42, Kansas City, Mo., M.; Sparks, William C, ex. "44, Alton, 
IIL. killed in action; Stall, Robert J., 1st Lt., ex. '43, Wilmette, HI., A.; Staton, Robert Q., San Bernardino, Calif., N.; Stauffacher, Philip J., Pfc, ex. '46, Darlington, Wis., A.; Stech­schulte, Donald W., '45, Windber, Pa., N.; Stecker, Gerald, Ens., Beaver Dam, Wis.. N.; Steele, Richard J., Elkhart, Ind., N. 
Steffen, Elmer A., Pfc, ex. '46. Indianapolis, 

Volume 23, No. 5, October, 1945 
Ind., A.; Steidl, William A., Cpl.,ex. '46, Paris, 111., A.; Steiemeyer, Thomas L., South Bend, Ind., N.; Stein, Paul D., Wilmore, Pa., N.; Stelnert, Walter G., Rldgefleld Park, N. J.. N.; Stclnocher. Joseph J., Pfc., Independence, O., A.; Stenger, Richard P., Ens., ex. '45, LaGrange, 111., N.; Stephan, Robert F., Chi­cago, N.; Steuerwald, Robert W., Ens., Wau­watos. Wis., N.; Stewart, Edward S., North Creek, N. Y., N.; Stierwalt, William H.. Cpl., Fremont, 0„ A.; Stockton. William J., St. Louis, Mo., N.: Stone,. Norbert J., Ens., Evans­ville, Ind., N. Stoner, Harry R., Pfc., ex. '46, Fostoria, O., A,; Stow, Robert Perry, I>t., Newton, la., M. 
Strahlendorf, J. Robert, Whitestown, Ind., N.; Street, John A.. Ens., Nashville, Tenn., N.; Stretcher, Henry P., 1st Lt., ex. "44, Toledo, ,0., A.; Stroot. Edgar H., Ens., *45, Glen *Ellyn, 111., N.; Stroschein, Harold W., 2nd Lt, Aberdeen, Ida., M.; Stuckert, Paul E., Ens., Baltimore, Md., N.; Stupka, Robert J., 2nd Lt., St. Paul, Minn., M.; Sturman, John K., India­napolis, Ind., N.; Sugnet, James K., ex. '43, Buffalo, N. T., N.; Sullivan, Edward J., Lt., Minneapolis, Minn., M.; Sullivan, James F.. 1st Lt., ex. '43, Blnghampton, N. T., A.; Sullivan, James R., Cleveland, O., M.; Sullivan, John C, Fall River, Mass., N.; Sullivan, John J., Cpl., ex. '45, Lynn, Mass., A.; Sullivan, Joseph A., 1st Lt., '41, Washington, D, C, missing in action. A.; Sullivan, Raymond J., Fond du Lac, Wis., M.; Sullivan, Richard L., Cpl.. ex. '42, Peekskill, N. Y., A.; Sullivan, William B., Fall River, Mass., N.: Summers, Harry W., Lt. (jg), LaPorte, Ind., N.; Summers, John N., Lt., Greenfield, Mass., A.; Summers, William T., Pfc, ex. '45, Upton, Mass., A.; Swain, Arthur C, Sweetwater, Tex., A.; Swanke, Ray­mond, Chicago, A.; Swartz, Donald F., Lorain, O., N.; Sweedyk, John F., 1st Lt., ex. '42, Grand Rapids, Mich., A.; Sweeney, John G.. T/5, ex. '45, Jamaica, N. Y., A.; Swisher, Donald E., Bayport,. ^Ilnn., M.; Symond, David A., 
Ens., Cottonwood. .\riz., N. 
Taaffe, Joseph M., Pvt., ex. '44, Chicago, A.: Tadross, Thomas G., Pfc, ex. '44, Meadville, Pa., A.; Talento, Frederick J., Pfc, ex. '46, Rye, N. Y., A.; Tarbox, William S., Chicago, N.; Taylor, George H., Greensburg, Kan., M.; Taylor, William W., Cpl., Newtown, O., A.; Terry, Robert E., Cuba City, Wis., M.; Thomp­son, Edward R., Detroit, Mich., N.; Thomp­son, John R., 2nd Lt.. ex. '41, Chicago. III., A.; Thompson, Robert G., Sgt., Kenmore, N. Y., A.; Tlerney, Robert T., Fall River, Mass., N.; Todorovich, Marko J., St. Louis, Mo., N.; Tocco, Anthony J., Ens., '45, Grosse Pointe, Mich., N.; Torrence, Robert F., Lt. (jg), ex. '43, Mexico, Mo., N.; Towner, Alfred M., Alton, HI., N.: Toyne, Francis W.. Lt. (Jg), '40, Kansas City, Mo., N. 
Tracy, Frederick C Hornell, N. Y., N.; Trainer, Robert C, LaGrange. 111., M.; Trani, Joseph A., Lexington. Mass., A.; Traughber, 
J. Thomas, 1st Lt., '30, Clarksville, Tenn., A.; Tremko, Norbert J., TySgt., e.x. '45, Chicago, A.; Trent, Robert M., Ens.. Anderson, Ind., N.: Trlmborn, Norval P., Ens., ex. '44, Oak Park, 111., N.; Trixler, John T., Cpl.. ex. '46, Huntington, Ind., A.; Troth, Richard C, Ens., Riverside, Calif., N.; Troy, John J., Pfc, e.x. '44, Stockbrldge, Mass., A.; Truemper. John W., Pfc, e.x. '45, Fort Wayne, Ind., A.; Trunk, Francis J., Ens., ex. '44, Chlcigo, N.; Tucker, Raymond D., 2nd Lt., Mountain Grove, Mo., M.; Tuckey, John 9., Ens., '44, Elkhart, Ind., N.; Turner. Walter B., Lt., e.x. '46. Youngs­town, O.. A.; Turner, William V., Ottawa, III., N.; Turnock, Louis J., T/Sgt., South Bend. Ind., A.; Tustison, Reid J.. Indianapolis, Ind., A. 
u 

Ocker, William C Slipper Rock. Pa., N.; Uldin, Jack L., South Bend, Ind., N.; Ullrich, Charles W., Lt. (Jg), ex. '43, Indianapolis, Ind., N.; Urban, Robert B., Berwyn. III., N.; Ushela, Clarence W., Cpl., Shenandoah, Pa.. A.; Usina, Joseph D., '45, St. Augustine, Fla., N.; Utz. John P., Pfc, ex. '44, Rochester. Minn., A. 
Vail, Richard J., Brooklyn, N. Y.. A.; Van­derWegen, Richard A., Sgt., ex. '44, Eau Claire. Wis., A.; Vandivler, James R., Franklin, Ind., M.: Vanek, Joseph C, Chicago, M.; Van Har­lingen, David E., Ens., Dayton, O.. N.; Van Nuys, John D., Dixon, HI., N.: Vargo, Frank A., Pfc, ex. '41, Logan, W. Va., A.; Vatter, Joseph R., Auburn, N. Y., N.; Vecchio, Ned J., Omaha, Neb., N.; Verbeck, Norbert, W., Lt., ex. '40, Pasadena, Calif., A.; Vereker, Donald R., Pvt., ex. "42, Hamilton, O., A.; Vetter, Leo J., ex. '45, New TJlm, .Minn., N.; Videan, Edwin R., Grand Rapids, Mich.. N.; Vlgnola, Francis J., Ens., '44, River Forest, III., N.; Vincent, John H., Lt, Albany, N. Y.. N.; Vogen, Robert N., 2nd Lt, Newark, 111., M.; Volker, Floyd W., Pfc, Casper, Wyo., A.; Volker, Henry J., ex. '42, Pittsburgh, Pa., discharged. A.; Vollmer, John E., Dearborn, Jlich., N.; Von Allmen, Oscar C, ex. '46, Louisville, Ky., N.: Von Hoene, Robert J., Ens., ex. '44. Rutherford, N. J.. N. 
w 

Waddington, William R., '45, Chicago Heights. HI., N.; Wade, Alfred A., Ens., '45, Howe. Ind., N.; Walte, Robert E., Pfc, Athol, Mass., A.; Walczak, Paul M., Pfc, ex. '45, Buffalo, 
N. Y,. A.; Wall, Robert F., Capt.. ex. '40. Joplin, Mo., A.; Wallace, Joseph D., Sgt. Poca­tello. Ida., M.; Wallace, Lawrence E., Pfc, ex. '46, 'Lebanon, Ky., A.; Walpole, James E., Indianapolis, Ind., A.; Walsh, Carroll S., 2nd Lt., ex. '42, Johnstown, N. Y., A.; Walsh, Edward C, Clinton, la., M.; Walsh, George R., Ens., ex. '45. Canton, O.. N.; Walsh. James F.. ex. '44, Elmhurst, L. I., N. Y., N.: Walsh, James P., Capt, ex. '43, Brooklyn. N. Y., M.: Walsh, Lawrence M., Pvt, '41, Portland, Me., A.; Walsh, Philip J., Pvt, West Newton, Mass.,' A.; Walter, Charles W., ex. '45, West Bend, Wis., A.; Walter. David E.. Pfc. ex. '46, South Bend, Ind., A. 
Ward, Albert F., Cpl.. ex. '45. Chicago, A.: Ward, Clarence V., Pfc, '45, Peorln, 111., A.: Ward, Francis H., Ens., '45, Rockford, 111., N.; Ward, Samuel P., Lt, ex. '45, Lockport, N. Y., A.: Warhol, William, Minneapolis, Minn., M.; Waters, Charles F., Chicago, N.; Way, Kenneth E.. Pfc, ex. '44, Manchester, Mich., A.: Webb., William P., Lt (jg), '44. Bismarck. N. D.. N.; Weinmann, Francis G., Capt., '35, Rochester. 
N. Y.. A.; Weiss. Arthur I., ex. '45. South Bend. Ind.. N.; Welsh, Walter J.. S/Sgt. ex. '40. Cleveland, O., A.; Werner. Charles W.. South Gate. Calif., A.; West, Paul H.. Sgt. ex. '46, South Bend, Ind., A. 
Whelan, Peter Lavlelle, 1st Lt, ex. '42, Henderson, Ky., killed in service. A. ;'Whipps. Kenneth R.. '35. Boston. Mass., N.; Whitford, Joseph C, '40. Jackson Heights. N. T.. A.; Wicks. William W., Lt. (jg), '44, Chicago, N.; Widing, Nelson G.. Euclid, O., M.: WIedlocher, Carl F., T/4, ex. '41. Anna. HI., A.; Wilbur, Terence H., Ens.. Bakersfleld. Calif.. N.; Wil­cox. Joseph v.. Ty5. ex. '4S. Hastings, Mich., A.; Wilkins. Wilfred G., Ens., Gary, Ind., N.; Williams, Charles P., Cpl., Mamaroneck, N. Y., A.; Williams, James E., Pfc, ex. '42,' Middle­town, O., A.; Williams. Lewis R.. Pvt. .ex. '45. Chicago, A.; Wilson, Donald E., Cpl., Min­neapolis. Minn., A.: Wilson, Robert F., '39, South Bend, Ind., N.; Wilson, Terry E., '45, Lubbock. Tex., N.; Winter, Lawrence J., Lt. (jg). ex. '45. Newark. N. J.. N.; Witous, John J., 2nd Lt.. ex. '44. Chicago. A.; Wltteried. George C. Chicago. N.; Wrape. Aloysius J.. Ens.. '45. Little Rock. Ark.. N. 
Young, Richard R.. '45, Jersey City, N. J., 
Zlherle, Francis A., Lt, '31, Chicago, IlL, N.; Zink, Robert W., Pfc, ex. '46, Detroit, Mich.. A.; Zintak. Francis V.. S/Sgt., ex. '38, Chicago, A. 

INDUSTRIAL ADVISORY COMMITTS 
Twelve outataiMting men in American industry have aeeepted invitations fnnn ' Notre Damie to serve on the University's newly-organized Indostrial Advisory Committee^ according to an announce­ment by Rev. Ha^ . ODonneU, C.S.C., president. 
During the wairtime era, plans were laid for the expansion and further de­velopment of Notre Dame, particularly the development of the graduate and research departments in the colleges of science and engineering. The Univer­sity is beginning to realize these plans. 
Several of the University's funda­mental research programs (irubber and plastics from both chemical and physical approaches, electronics both theoretical and applied, nuclear physics and radia­tion, chemistry, etc.) will have important implications for the future industrial development of the nation. 
To assure an understanding and co­operation between the University and industry, which will be important for the maximum realization of the Univer­sity's contribution to this development, the University has formed this advisory committeie. Men who have accepted are: 
Britton I. Budd, of the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois, Chicago; William Calcott, assistant director of the Organic Chemical Division, E. I. da Pont de Nemours Co., Wilmington, DeL; Bradley Dewey, president, Dewey and Almy Chemical Co., Cambridge, Mass.; William P. Feel^, president. Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co., Chicago; William ­
H. Harrison, vice-president, American Telephone and Telegraph Co., New York City; Walter G. HUdorf, director of metallurgy, Timken Roller Bearing Co., Canton, Ohio; Edgar Kobak, president. Mutual Broadcasting System, New York City; Peter C. Reilly, president, Reilly Chemical Corp., Indianapolis; Arthur J. Schmitt, president, American Phenolic Corp., Cicero, IlL; Harold S. Vance^ chairman of the board, Stndebaker Corp., South Bend; Dr. Albert F. Zahm, Guggenheim Chair of Aeronautics, Li­brary of Congrress, Washington, D. C; and M. E. Coyle, vice-president. General Motors Corp., Detroit. 
The committee will meet at regular intervals with University ofSdals to ad-. vise on programs of research, on rela­tions of industry and the University in research, and on ways and means.of expanding the research program at the University. 

SCIENCE AND PUBLIC WELFARE 
(Continued from Pase 4) 
plane, and radio obscures the fact that they were all based on fundamental dis­coveries made in nineteenth-century Europe. From Europe also came formu­lation of most of the laws governing the transformation of energy, the physical and chemical structure of matter, the behavior of electricity, light, and magne­tism." 

There have been reasons for such de­pendence. For instance, until compara­tively late in the nineteenth century the United States was an agricultural na­tion, and its attitude toward science was affected accordingly. The colleges, generally speaking, were indifferent to the growth of scientific research. In­dustry, as we know it today, had not come into existence, so there was little compulsion toward either pure or applied research from that quarter. Such aid as came from the government was for strictly limited and utilitarian purposes; and aid from private philanthropy was negligible. 
Scientific Buieous Established 

As America grew up, however, con­ditions changed. To meet obvious needs, the Federal Government began to establish its scientific bureaus—^the Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Naval Observa­tory, the Department of Agriculture, and many others. Private philanthropy began its direct support of research through the creation of non-profit scientific in­stitutions and foundations. As power­ful new industries developed, they set up their own laboratories out of which came basic technological discoveries. Nevertheless, despite the increased interest in science, pure research con­tinued to lag far behind applied research. The proportion must be corrected be­cause, as the Committee pointed out, future progress will be most striking in those highly complex fields—electronics, aerodynamics, chemistry — which are based directly upon the foundations of modem science. 
To insist that the need exists is to stress the obvious. A question more to the point is, how is the need to be met? Private gifts, endowment, and grants from State legislatures are inadequate. Universities, already affected by de­clining incomes and increasing costs of operation, are reluctant to take on ex­pensive projects. Industry, reasonably enough, is interested primarily in applied rather than pure research; and, in any event, is financially unable to assume the burden. 
The Committee believes that the means to the desired end is an increased measure of Federal aid to scientific re­search, administered "without incurring centralized control or discouraging priv­ate support." Experience of the war years strengthened the Committee in this opinion. In the first place, research in universities and non-profit organiza­tions amply proved its worth by in­creasing specialized knowledge and dis­seminating it when and where it was most needed. Simultaneously, through the Office of Scientific Research and Development, the government was dem­onstrating that a definite policy of initiating and supporting basic scientific research through contracts and grants added immeasurably to the national welfare. With these premises in mind, what remained was to determine the machinery to carry over into times of peace, and to adapt to peace time needs, the type of coordinated work done under 
the direction of the Ofiice. 
The best means, the Conunittee be­lieves, is to establish in the executive branch of the government an independ­ent agency to be known as the National Kesearch Foundation with well defined powers and duties to be exercised by a board of nine members appointed by the President. The sole qualification of members should be their demonstrable interest in, and capacity to promote, the purposes of the Foundation. The Board, in brief, would be above and beyond any consideration but that of scientific ad­vancement, for "in order to be fruitful, scientific research must be free—^free from the influence of pressure groups, free from the necessity of producing immediate practical results, free from dictation by any central board." Senator Warren G. Magnuson of Washington has introduced a bill (S.1285) providing for the establishment of a National Kesearch Foundation which "would promote the progress of science and the useful arts, secure the national defense, advance the national health, prosperity, and wel­fare. . . ." This bill should be of vital interest to all Notre Dame men, as wall as to Americans generally. 
Begarding GoTetmnent Grants 

In addition to formulating the prin­ciple of a National Besearch Founda­tion, the Committee made suggestions as to the technical forms in which Govern­ment grants should be made to private and state-supported institutions. These include: 1) matching grants for fluid research purposes within the institution, rather than to any particular depart­ment or person; 2) discretionary grants, either as g^rants-in-aid for promising The Notre Dame Alumnus 
special projects, or in the provision of large and expensive capital facilities; 
3) post-doctoral fellowships as a direct aid to research; 4) senior research fellowships to enable really experienced investigators to develop and utilize their talents most effectively. 
It is the Bowman Committee's con­

sidered opinion that increased support of research by the Federal Government will give the greatest impetus to science and technology; that is, federal aid wisely administered. "We do not be­lieve," said the Committee significantly,­"that any program is better than no program^—that-an ill-devised distribu­. tion of Federal funds will aid the growth of science. Our concrete proposals seek 
- to augment the quality as well as the quantity of scientific research." 
Enterprise Must Be "Joint" 

In the reconversion period, which is now beginning, we must have an ap­preciation of the tangible benefits that can come from a joint enterprise in which the Federal Government, charged with the responsibility of providing for the common defense and general wel­fare, joins with private and public in­stitutions of higher learning to assure a flow of new knowledge that will pro­mote the common good. But the enter­prise must be "joint"—^that is, the part­ners must be equal, each contributing its share .and respecting the rights of the other. Undue influence or pressure will lead either to bureaucratic desuetude or academic murder. 
NEW RADIO SERIES 

Attention of Notre Dame alumni is called to the new radio series on Mu­tual each Thursday morning, 10:15 to 
10:30 Eastern standard time. Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, LL.D., '41, will be the featured speaker, conducting an infor­mal type of program, called "The Spiri­tual Clinic" The program is sponsored by Our Sunday Visitor, under the patro­nage of Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., '15. Francis A. Fink, '30, man­aging editor of O.S.V., and the Univer­sity of Notre Dame administration were instrumental in the negotiations which led to the new program on Mutual, whose president is alumnus Edgar Ko­bak, a minim at Notre Dame from 1904 to 1906. 
The new program will tie in with the nature of the programs being developed through the Local Club committees on religion and citizenship. The time of the program enlists the interest of alumni wives and mothers, particularly. 
Volume 23, No. 5, October, 1945 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CAfcogo 
John W. Dorsan, 'S9, 10 8. La Salle 8t.> Pres.; Thomas S. McCabe, *2Z, U S. XA SaUe St., Sec 
Sfft. John Golden, *30. had a lO-day furlough in Chicago recently from Camp Blending, Fla., where he is engaged in classification work and marking time until his discharge. Major Frank Hetreed '30 also was in the city from Louisville. 
Dick Nash, *23, is recovering satisfactorily after a serious illness. 
Byron Kanalej*, president of Cooper. Kana­ley & Co., has been elected president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America. John Fan! Callen^ '22, chief here of the legal staff of the Veterans Administration, has been transferred to Milwaukee. Tom McCabe 

Delaware 
J. Fendall Frtininr. *37, 416 Geddes St. WUmincton, Pres.; John E. Reith, '41, 1015 Park Place, Wilmington, Sec 
The summer has been quiet, clubwise. Regu­lar meetings will be resumed in October. 
Several visitors were In town, post V-J day. Lt. Paul Boi^mon, *40, got back from the South Pacific where he saw a lot of action 
•with the Navy. Don Leis, '42, paid a visit. Don's been a sailor since June. 1944, an ensign in communications. John E. Rcith 

Detroit 
Norman J. Fredericks, *35, 1486 Gratiot Ave., 
Pres.; John T. Annas, *35, 16514 LaSaQe, 
Sec 
The golf tournament, held at Mardow Brook Country Club, was attended by approximately SO people. Bert Banr, the co-chairman with Tommy Sheehan, was the Big Winner: his wife presented him with twin boys the morning of the tournament, Bert's golf wasn't very good, but he and Tommy did a fine job on food and prizes. 
Norm IVc4lericks has announced that we will have a D & C Boat to go to Cleveland for the Notre Dame-Navy game. Ma| Knaos is chairman of the ticket sale. Henrj' Clark and Fanl Risk are helping Mai with the de­tail. 
Arrangements are being made for the "Feath­er Party" to be held Sunday afternoon before Thanksgiving at the Book-Cadillac Hotel, te o Mclncmey is handling all of the prizes and baskets. It is expected to be much bigger and better this year. 
John Himeins Is chairman of our first dinner meeting. John T. Annas. 

Kentucky 
Marion Hfffeman, *38, 1830 Frankfort Ave., liooisville, Pres.; Eugrene J. Stenerle, ^23, Kentucky Home Ufe Bldff.. Louisville, Sec. 
Joseph F. Donaldson, *23. has been appointed as chairman of the Vocational Committee for the club. He will be assisted, in an advisory capacity, by Fkank B. Bloemer, Jr., and Wil­liam N. Bosler. 
The chairmanship on the program for Reli­gion and Citizenship has been given to William 
A. Beisert, Jr., who through his past activity and willingness, you will find most cooperative. 
Our Summer Stag, held on July 28, again proved to be successful In drawing a large crowd since there were 31 members present on a rainy, gloomy day. Our plans for a dance on the night of the Kentucky-Notre Dame basket­ball game, Jan. 26, arc still in the tentative state since we have been unable to obtain a location. 
Tou may wish us luck for our party to be held on the night of Nov. 25. This and the dance, if It can be arranged, will largely be the source of our revenue for the year. Re­gardless of the outcome of the dance, we feet the party will again be successful and place us in a position where we can forward another bond to the University. 
Unfortunately we have lost the services of both our secretary, George B. Hnth and treas­urer. Otto J. 3Iiletl, Jr., as both men have accepted positions in other cities. However, Eocene J. Stenerle, '23, has been appointed as secretarj' and treasurer for the remainder of the term. This oilice has been combined for the balance of tills period only and will again become separate oflices in the coming election. 
"We regret to advise you of the untimely death of Lt. Robert F. Schoo, class of 1943, who was killed In a plane crash Sunday, Aug. 5, near El Paso, Texas. On September 9, we received Communion for Robert in a body. This is now a practice of the club and Is well attended by the members. The comment from such practices has been most favorable. 
Incidentally, our next Communion Breakfast will be held on Sunday, Dec. 9. We ara already giving this our attention and feel certain the attendance will be larger than usual 
Slarion J. Heffeman. 


Milwaukee 
Edward J. Rogers, *25. 709 N. 11th St. Pres.; Roderidc E. SoUiTan, '24, 4432 N. Woodrnff Ave, Sec 
Earl McCarron and his wife, Peggy, recently spent their vacation in Milwaukee, Kenosha. "Washington, D. C, etc Earl, a former club president here. Is now an attorney in charge of Rent Control with the OPA at Juneau, Alaska. . . . Chatted with Harold Watson at the Holy Name breakfast last Sunday. Harold win resume Ills duties as an instructor in public speaking at the Shorewood evening Opportunity School for adults, starting Sept. 17." 
Jim Wheeler, John Madden and Eddie Ri>gers played golf recently. Eddie says that Jim was the only one w^ho indicated in our questionnaire that a golf tournament would 1/e desirable so Eddie feels that he gave Jim what he wanted. . . . Charlie 0'?(cill was a recent Holy Name breakfast speaker at St. Patrick's church, Dubuque, la. Charlie will attend the Society of St. Vincent de Paul Cen­tennial celebration to be held at St. IJOUIS. He is the executive secretary of the society here. . . . Marquette High School here has a popular new football coach who Is a Notre Dame graduate. He Is iKtroId Lanston, '38. lately of Washington, D. C. 
A meeting of the club officers was scheduled for Sept. 17 to make detailed plans for the club year. Rod Snllivan 

New York City 
James F. Dwyer, '26, 49 WaU St., Prca.; John A. Hoyt, Jr., '33, 8 WUtekaa B«^ Tttckaho«, Westchester Co., K. T^ Sac 
The club's annual Reunion and Rally will be held in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel on Friday night. Nov. 9, the night before the 
Army game JaA Hagrt, clnb secretary, writes that Harrcr Daly and TISHMJ OVavke are co-chairmen in charge of the partr-Ja ^ Is in charge of tickets and reserTatIon& Head­quarters, to take reservations, will be opened in the Waldorf-Astoria early In October. 
At a meeting of the Board of Governors of the club on Angust 8. a vocational committee ­to assist Joba Balfe with regard to retumlns war veterans and others was appointed, and plans were made to enlarge this activity .in keeping with the demands of the day. Details of this enlarged program wilt be reported later. 
At the invitation of the local Michigan Clnb and the Western University Club, Notre Dame men have a block of seats available for the MichigaQ-Army game at the Polo Grounds on October 13. 
"IMmUammt JaA Itanenw, who participated In the raid and rescue of a great many Amer­icans who were held in the prisoner of war camps in the Philippines last winter, is now-home recuperating from his*battle 
**Edward J. H«yt was promoted from first -lieutenant to captain on V-J Day, and latest 
reports indicate that he Is being moved from 
Okinawa to Korea with the Army of .Occnpm­
tion. Ed is expected home on leave for the-
Army game. Htm Wntgtm the nomber two man 
in RCA television, spends his time commntinr 
between the plant In Camden. N. J., and the 
broadcasting studios In Radio City. Gmtge 
Marran, now sales promotion manager of Con­
rad Razor Blade Company, Inc., Is busy plan­
ning for his company's post-war activities. 
r . iJMtvy has left Federal Tele­phone and Radio Co. and -Is now back In bis insurance business. Jlas SUels and Dnsilc ndlcm are back together again In the law. firm of Simpson. Thatcher and Bartlett. Mkm Hartley was ono of the first to make applica­tion to ^ build a new home in Westchester County after the government announced that building controls were off. 
**TM Berkeffy. vice-president and counsel of Emmigrant Bank, spent most of the Rummer" at his new place in Soothhampton. Jtask lAvcUc, well rested after his tour of track meets as the official A.A.U. starter. Is now making ready to scout the autumn turf. 
"During a recent visit to Buffalo, the writer 
stayed with Jlsi Carroll, a former officer of -the club and chairman of the 1943 and 1944 Reunions and Rallies. Jim Is now general manager of the Sheraton Hotel in Buffalo and Is doing a splendid Job. While. In Buffalo a very happy visit -was had with Blshep O'BMm. at his Episcopal residence. I understand that the town has received him with open arms, and he has been fully adopted by the com­
munity. 

**Jim I>wycr has recenty seen Joe Mifi—gfc lin of the class of 1916, who has recently re­turned ftvm service in the European theater where he was closely associated with the con­struction of rehabilitation centers for the Mer­chant Marine." JelhB A Hoyt, fr. 

Philadelphia 
HaraM Vmkr, 'S9; 4«M N. Brand St., Fns.; 
ClWevd K. Prsdeid, "SS, §m% Chester Ave., 
It is our painful duty to report daring th* past month the death of two of our members. Kagcaci CMtl^ who was killed when the engine of his plane failed (the day after Gene had received his pilot's license) and Joha H. Nee­ssa, director of public Works In. Philadelphia and member of the Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame. John died suddenly of a heart attack. We are sure to miss tliem both. 
Dan Toanc is "looking up" after his return from India where he was taken sick. Chariie McKinney is locatine back in Philly after being In New York for a few years. BlU Cooney is another local lad returning to the fold after working in Baltimore for about a year. We're gradually building up our membership again. Even Ed B«Uey used the excuse that he was sick to stick around town for a couple of days. 
lA. Jim O'Jfeill should get some sort of meritorious badge from the club. He's one member who never gets a notice and who always shows up for meetings. Time McXally looking younger by the year, is jumping be­tween here and the west coast for the newly formed pro league. 
Our September meeting was held very in­formally because Hal Duke couldn't reach ye sec and had to- try and round them up him­self. Navy Ueutenants te o Burby and Coleman Mcfinlre from the class of '42 attended and had quite a confab with Jack Kidley, recently back from the wars. We are planning several trib­utes to John Neeson within the coming year. 
SOS Jack Kellly, Rank McSIanus and Bill Bodo. Cliff Prodehl 

San Fernando Valley 
An organization meeting of the Notre Dame Club of the San Fernando Valley, California, was held July 18 at The Lamp Post in Toluca Lake. Those attending were: Keg. Alexander, Ed Ashe, Frank Cane, Bill Corr, Ait Kcdler, Doc Gorriila, Bob Hnether, John HcArdle, Son Horsan, Bill Stevens, John Walsh and Chuck Wright. 
Following dinner Firank Cane gave a brief resume of the work of the Los Angeles Youth Committee of which he is executive secretary. 
Ed Ashe acted as chairman for an open discussion of organization problems. Doc Gorrilla outlined some of the activities of the St. Louis Club which tended to keep member interest active. 
Art Fiedler recommended the princiBle of a rotating committee for handling arrangements for each successive meeting. This was adopted. A committee consisting of Bill Corr, Reg. Alex­ander and VianlL Cane was elected to make arrangements for the next meeting. Bill Corr 
Sf. LOUIS 
lioais C. Fddii:* '37, 7571 Buckinfrbnm Dr., Clagrt^n, Mo., Pres.; TrtA McN'eill, *36, 8100 W. Florissant, Sec 

The annual Notre Dame picnic was held July 15 at the John Corley farm, Chesterfield, Mo., and, as in the past, was a grand success. Mr. Corley, '02, who so graciously has heen host to our club year after year, again made all of the facilities of his place available to us for a fine day's entertainment. 
In spite of the fact so many of our members are away in the services a crowd of about 250 people were present. It was especially gratifying to the officers of the club to see new faces—men who expressed intentions of becoming more active members. 
A special vote of thanks goes to the three men in charge of things this year: Louis Fehlir* Trank. Amato, and F^ank Tally. These men together with the subcommitteemen made the 1945 picnic one of the most successful. Paul Amc^d, kept a hotly disputed softball game going; Martin Haghcs and his henchmen did the best job ever on the "rehabilitation;" Bob Mellronff had a great time over the roasting grate, and thanks to Dutch Wrape and Al Bavarino for their aid on the food situation. Bert Ooaflilin, Fran Kennedy and Tincx Fdli c kept the "Mares Moccossins" ringing the pegs. There was plenty of Griese­
diecks beverage on hand. IVank Poll­now's lifeguards had no work, but swimming was enjoyed by a great many. Bide Klohr* Dick Karr and Marty Hoghes were all very helpful on the "amusement tax" assignment 
Prizes of bacon, "zoop," auto polish, gift certificates, etc., were distributed in the even­ing to the holders of lucky numbers. John .Switrer*8 famous Licqurish was distributed to all the kids. Fred S. McN«MI" 


Rhode Island & S. E. Mass. 
From Rnss Hunt, Providence, R. I-, comes this tremendous report on the doings of Johnny Mclntyre: 
"John A. Mclntyre, Providence, R. I., has re­cently returned from a tour of duty in the Pacific war theatre. 
"John was the commander of a nlgtit fighter squadron with Task Force oS. operating from the famous Hornet. He was in on the strike against Tokyo with Gen. Jimmy Doolittle and flew over Hirohlto's palace repeatedly from then until June of this year. John was in on the 'kill* of one of Japan's greatest battle­sliips and he was the first American flyer to land on Okinawa after the island had been taken from the enemy. His squadron was the only night fighter group that came back from alt its missions against the Nips w^Ithout loss of a single man. Mac did bring one ship back to the flat-top so badly damaged that It was dumped overboard after It had been stripped of reusable parts. All but two of the members of his squadron sent Sons of the Land of the Rising Sun to join their ancestors and John has five Jap planes to his credit. At least that Is what he admits to. 
"One can learn to identify the various decora­tions of the U. S. Naval Air Forces by studying irac's chest. Although he is too modest to discuss them, he is bedecked with the pre-Pearl Harbor ribbon, the Atlantic Theatre rib­bon, the Philippine ribbon, the Pacific ribbon with battle stars for Iwo Jima and Okinawa, the air medal with three gold stars, the Dis­tinguished Flying Crss with one gold star, and the silver star. In addition to these, John has . been recommended for the Na\-y Cross, the highest honor obtainable in his branch of the 
service. 
At present, discharged from service, he is assistant coach at Brown University. 

Syracuse & Central N.Y. 
Hawley E. Van Swall, '41, 1S03 Harrison 
St., Syracuse, Fres. 

Henry Hicfcey, who was president of the club, was called into service and Hawley Van Swall, who was secretary, has taken over the presidency. , 
The club held a golf tournament and dinner at the Skaneateles Country Club, July 19. The fololwing Notre Bame men were present: Haw­ley Van Swall,. Father Joseph Toomey, who is director of Catholic Charities of the Syracuse diocese. Father X^ank Harrison, assistant at St. Mary's Cathedral, Syracuse, Father John Harrison, assistant at Our Lady of Solace Church,Wllliam Sullivan, George Kinney, I^ecl Delaney, I«o Kelley, Jolm Nyikos, Edward Mclaughlin, Vincent Brown, who had as his guest, his brother. Rev. Joseph T. Brown, S.J., of Buffalo, and James Huxford. U . Tom Delaney and IVank Cashier had reservations for this meeting but on account of transporta­tion dimcultles were delayed in arriving from New York on time. The kicker handicap was won by William Sullivan with a score of 91 and the runner-up was Father Toomey with a score of 92. Hawley Van Swall had the best score of the day which was an 88. 
The next meeting date of the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse was set for Sept. 12 at the Bellevue Country Club of Syracuse with golf in the afternoon and dinner in the evening. 
The committee for this meeting was I«o Keller and Re d DeUney. 
Hswler Van Swall would appreciate it if all Notre Dame alumni in Syracuse and vicinity would communicate with him so that the mailing list with proper addresses could be brought up to date. Address communications to Hawley at the Herald Bldg.. S. Warren St., Syracuse, N. Y. 
My son, James David Hnxford, ex. '46. U. S. Marines, Camp LeJeune, just walked in the office on a lO-day furlough. Jim Huxford. 


Western Pennsylvania 
WOliam H. H. Ginder. Jr., '31. 168 Broad­way Dr., Pittsbnrxh lO, R. D. 6, Pres.; Rndy CmkoTic, '31. 820 E Ohio St, Pittsburgh 12. Sec 
Tinceot D. Sw««iey, ex. '21, publicity director for the CIO and editor of "Steel Labor" will represent Philip Murray at forthcoming labor conferences In Paris and Russia. 

HaJ. lATiy O'Toole, and Lt. lArry CDonnell, both *36, were home on 30-day leave recently after extended service In England, Franco and Germany. 
Dick O'Donnell, '31, brother of Larry, and Frank, *34, is doing publicity for Ketchum, Inc., campaign directora Dick had been on the copy desk of the "Pittsburgh Sun-Tele­graph." 

Noel BfocCany Ml, left the local bureau of the International News Service to join the staff of the Associated Press in Philadelphia. 
• Joe Brclg, ex. *28, for 10 years on the staff of the "Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph." resigned to become assistant managing editor of the "Catholic Universe Bulletin" in Cleveland. Aside from his regular beat at City Hall, Joe had written' a feature column, "One Man's Opinion" which appeared twice weekly in the "Tele." Fashioned In a readable, essay style, the column was widely read. Joe is a regular contributor to such Catholic publications as the "Pitsburgh Catholic," "Catholic Observer," "Our Sunday Visitor" and "Columbia." 
The Club renewed its weekly Thursday lunch­eons at the Fort Pitt Hotel. Out-of-town alumni visiting Pittsburgh are invited to Join the crowd each Thursday at 12:15 p.m. 
The Club is arranging for a smoker on Oct. 19, the eve of the Pitt-Notre Dame game. The affair will be held at the Royal York Hotel. 
I 

Bob Kutman, has moved to Washington where he has joined the Chemical Division of the WPB. 
Navy I<t. John F. Favlicfc, '34, was home on a recent leave. John is a gunnery ofilcer on a Merchant Marine ship. 
Jolin F. McMahon, '28; is chairman of the club's committee dealing with employment for local alumni returning from service. 
Rudy Cmkovic* 
RETURN TO CHAMBERS 

With the closing of the Midshipmen School, scheduled for early November, the Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus, will return to its former quarters in the basement of Walsh Hall. The K, .of C. chambeis have for much of the war been occupied by Navy offices, with the result that the Knights' activities have been centralized in an office in the former Brownson Hall in the Main Building. 
Volume 23, No. 5, October, 1945 
» »

THE ALUMNI 
Engogemenfs 
Miss .Mary Jane McVey and I.t. John H. McAnlilTe, Jr., C8NR, '37. 
Miss Margaret Barthle and Ph. JL Alfred O. Klefer, USNB, '39. 
Miss Mary Jane Klebba and Majnr Harry H. FhilUps, VSHCB, -40. 
Miss Eleanor Barbara Barany, and A|C Thomas M. Gilroy, DSNR, ex. -43. 
Miss Prlscllla Keefrlder and U. (JB) John 
P. ^Viethoir, CSNR, '43. 
Marriages 
Miss Mary Helen Wilhelm and Capt. John It. Mnsmaker, AAF, *20, Greenwood, Miss., Aug. 4. 
Miss Martha Jeanne LaSaUe and M^Sgt. Robert L. Riffley^ AAF, '30, Chicago, Aug. IS. 
Miss Clara Radlicki and Lt. Chester J. Cble­bawski, ex. *35, South Bend, July 25. 
Miss Mary Prances Byrne and I*t. Charles Mahar, USNB, '35, Kansas City, Mo., Aug. 4. 
Miss Betty Jane Barnes and MySst. Donald 
E. Krj'der, ex, '38, South Bend, July 2S. 
Miss Cecilia Moreno and Adolpta S. Kamm, '39, Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Sept. 11. 
Miss Angela Orasin and Major Patrick J. BannoD, AAF, '40, New Tork City, Aug. 21.' 
Miss Dorothy Mae Heynolds and Angnst B. Kw>, Jr., '40, San Francisco, Sept. 3. 
Miss Ruth Elizabeth MacDougall and John 
A. Kottte, '40, Washington, D. C, Sept. 22. 
Miss Jule Marie Bennis and 14. August J. Dereame* USNB, '41, Punxsutawney, Fa., Aug. 30. 
Miss Jeanne Audrey Crockett and 1st Lt. Thomas £ . Buyer, AAF, '42, Sioux Falls, S. D., Sept. 8. 
Miss Cecelia Catherine Donohue and Fred­erick H. Faulmann, Jr., '42, June 16. 
Miss Margaret Frances Denipsey and Lt. ijfc) Francis E. O'Dowd, USXK, *42, San Francisco, July 11. 
Lt. (jg) Mary Elizabeth Smith and 1st Lt. Lawrence P. SalUvan, USMCR, '42, Admiralty Islands. 
Miss Dorothy Marie Graf and Lt. (jg-) Jiinies 
A. Girard, USNR, '43, Chicago,. Aug. 25. 
Miss Frances Patricia Parish, daughter of Varnum A. Parish, '08, and Lt. (JK) Kdvrard 
N. Alnrray, USNR, '43. Momence, III., Sept. 1. 
Miss Mary Ann Frye and Jerome A, Coleman, 
•44, Crestline, O., July 28. 
Miss Jeanne M. Calnon and Ens. Edwin A. Klarecfci, USNR, ex. '45, South Bend, Aug. 1. 
Miss Margaret Zoromskl and Stt, Edward Talboom, ex. '45, Charleston, S. C, June 12. 
Miss Betty June Johnson and Pvt. Theodore S, Birachitxky, ex. '47, South Bend. July 30, 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Michael Joseph Adrian, '25, announce the birth of Kathleen Marie, June 21. 
Capt and Mrs. Francis P. Dayton, USMCR, '30, announce the birth of a son, June 23. 
Lt. and Mrs. Robert E. Gorman, *32, announce the birth of Robert E.. Jr., Aug. 20. 
Lt. and Mrs. Francis H. Bnriey, '33, an­nounce the birth of John Francis, Aug. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs, Cliarles M. Ryan, '33, announce the birth of Mary Ann on Sept. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. AViUam U. 3Iitsch, *33, announce the birth of Catherine Clare on Aug. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. James J. Forreist, '34, announce the birth of Kathleen. 
Major and Mrs. 'Thaddeas Gabn»ki, *34, announce the birth of Robert A-, on Sept. 20. 
Ens. and Mrs. Ea^ene J. O'Reilly, '35. an­nounce the birth of Brian William, their fifth child, on Aug. 14. 
Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth F. I>aws, '36, renounce the birth of Margaret Ellen on Aug. 10. 
Mr. and Ihlrs. Joseph V. MacDonald, '36, an­nounce the birth of Gerald John. 
Major and Mrs. Lake- J, 'neman, ^'37, an­nounce the birth of Terese Rosemary. 
Lt. and Mrs. George D. Kerwin, USNR, '38. announce the birth of Patrick Xteo on July 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Brown, '39, announce the birth of Barbara Ann on Aug. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Bnethcr, '39, an­nounce the birth of Carolyn Elizabeth on Dec. 4, 1944. 
Lt. and Mrs. David T. Meskill, Jr.. '39, an­nounce the birth of Kathleen on Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Clifford Letcher, '40, announce the birth of William Joseph on Aug. S. 
Jlr. and Mrs. Fred C. Robertshaw, Jr., '40. announce the birth of Jlary Elizabeth on July 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paol R. AVaddeU, M. A.. '40. announce the birth of Paul Jeffrie on Sept, 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard A. Batt, '41, announce the birth of Richard Anthony on Sept. 5. 
Mus. 3/c and Mrs. IVilliam J. Dnnliam, *41, announce the birth of Barbara Lynne on July 
12. • 

Ens. and Mrs.' Donald Potter, '43, announce the birth of Donald V., on Sept. 6. 
Deaths 
There will be little disagreement with the statement tliat In John Neeson's death the University lost one of her greatest alumni. Because John Neeson was a great alumnus, almost tlie ideal alumnus. Not on Sundays. Not during the football seasons, of which he was thoroughly appreciative. Not on the occa­sion of meetings of the Lay Trustees, of whom he was a valued colleague. Not during his presidency of. the Alumni Association, in 1923­24, when his leadership brought so many developments, culminating in Universal Notre Dame Night and the permanence of a central office, magazine and other factors of progress among the alumnL 
John Neeson. apparently from his matricu­lation, was a Notre Dame man twenty-four hours a day. as loyal, as enthusiastic, as generous, and as willing, as a man could be. And as representative in his life and work as the University could, ask. 
Jolin H. NMMH, tti 

On Sept. 1. at the age of 61, John Neeson was found dead in his home by his wife, who, with John H. Neeson, Jr.. *35, a lieutenant In the Navy, survives him. The immediate reaction was a tribute to the high civic posi­tion he had achieved as engineer and director of public works in Philadelphia. The grief and the tributes were spontaneous and uni* versal. The "Inquirer" said, "The sudden death of John H. Neeson has deprived the city of Philadelphia of a conspicuously faithful and efficient servant. For nearly two score years this native son devoted his energies and special talents to making the community a better place in which to live." The "Record" added. ". . . . Director Neeson was a career man enjoying a national reputation In his pro­fession. He was never active In politics, a rare thing at City Hall. But still rarer was the fact that he was a hard worker, a real public servant. . ." 
The Notre Dame loss Is adequately expressed in the statement of the Rev. Hugh O'Donnell. C.S.C., president of the University: 
"When an alumnus of the University'enjoys the confidence of succeeding administrations for more than forty years, and when he has portrayed in his whole life the highest Ideals of his Alnia Mater, little wonder It is that In his death genuine sorrow should pervade the campus he loved so tenderly. 
. "Ever since John Neeson was graduated in 1903. he went about doing good In his own quiet way. Bishop O'Hara beautifully char­acterized him In his funeral sermon when he said that he observed faithfully the two great Commandments. love of God and love of neighbor. We may be sure that the Master he served so - well will richly reward him, because of his fidelity to His precepts while on earth. 
"The Associate Board of Lay Trustees has 
lost a valued member, the Alumni Association an exemplary Notre Dame graduate, and I personally a verj* dear friend. Our hearts go out to his devoted wife and only son, also an alumnus of the University, as we assure them of our continued s>-mpathy and prayers for a Notre Dame man who through unpreten­tious excellence in life reflected glor>* on us all. Peace to his great soull** 
Father O'Donnell was celebrant of the funeral Mass in Philadelphia, and the eulogj- was delivered by the Most Rev, John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, bishop of Buffalo. J. Arthur Haley and Prof. Paul I. Fenlon, long friends of the Neeson family, were among the Notre Dame men at the funeral. The Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, to which John Neeson never tired of giving his efforts, served as honorary pallbearers. 
AVOOniX>CK—BTLA>—McCORMACK 
Notre Dame's cognizance and endorsement of Catholic leaders was emphasized in the recent death of a trio of great men whose various talents had commanded world atten­tion, and who each bore at death the mark of approval of work well done from the Uni­versity. 
First to die was Tliomas B". Woodlock, Laetare medalist in 1943. Mr. Woodlock, 7S, former editor of the "Wall Street Journal" and since 1930 writer of the paper's column, "Thinking It Over," died in New York on Aug. 25. 
Mr. Woodlock, a native of Dublin, Ireland, Joined the "Journal" staff in 1S92 when he migrated to the United States. He became editor in 1902, and resigned in 1905 to join 
S. N. Warren & Co., New York Stock Exchange firm. 
He joined the American International Corp. In 1918 and later was named its secretary. While writing a daily column for the "New York Sun" he ser\-ed as director of the Pere Marquette and St. Louis-San Francisco Rail­roads. 
President Coolidge appointed him to the Interstate Commerce Commission in 1925, from which he resigned in 1930 to rejoin the "Jour­naL" 
In his latest years, Mr. Woodlock. in books and articles, became one of the foremost Cath­olic apologists. 
Then, on Sept. 16. SISEF. John A. Kyan, 76, eminent Catholic economist, died. Father Ryan, one of the greatest figures in the Church's campaign for social justice in America, re­ceived an honorary doctorate of laws from Notre Dame In the year of the University's Diamond Jubilee, 1917. His long and brilliant career, before and after, made the award one of outstanding merit. 
Msgr. Ryan, former faculty member at Cath­olic university, Washington, died in St. Joseph's hospital. St. Paul, Minn. He entered the hospital last June 29 following a cerebral hemorrhage 
Msgr. Ryan was ordained at St. Paul Semi­nary in 1S98, before going to Catholic Uni­versity for his doctorate. He returned to St. Paul Seminary as a member of its faculty. 
In 1915 he was called to Catholic University as professor of philosophy, later becoming dean of the school of theology there. He also was a member of the faculties of Trinity Col­lege, the National Catholic School of Social Service in Washington, and was an original m^ember of the staff of the National Catholic Welfare Conference. 
During NRA days he served as a member of a committee to protect small business and of the committee which drew the pattern of the social security program. 
Pour brothers and three sisters survive. 

And on the same day. Sept. 16, in Dublin, Ireland. JTohii MoCormMdc died.. In 1933 the great Irish tenor was awarded the Laetare Medal, and U was conferred upon him at the impressive ceremony which marked the Golden Jubilee of the Medal's establishment, in the presence of many other great Medalists on the campus of the University. McCormack's person­ality, his songs, and his colleagues on that occasion, formed a highlight in campus cere­monies. 
The brilliant career which won the tenor a* Papal peerage began when McCormack was 19. An unknown from Athlone. son of a woolen mill worker, he came as a chorister in Dublin cathedral to compete against 13 tenors in Dublin's ancient concert rooms. He beat them all. won a gold medal, and was on the way to international fame. 
His sweet voice and perfect diction became legendary. His Irish brogue attracted simple folk, and his thrilling rendition of Bach and Schubert held sophisticated audiences. He made "Mother Machree" and "I Hear You Calling 5le'' famous. 

He first came to America in 1903 to sing in the Irish Village at the St. Louis •World's Fair for 550 a week. There he met and courted Lily Foley of Dublin, another Irish village singer, and they were married in 1906. They had two children, besides seven adopted ones. 
He came to love America as much as it 

loved him, and became an American citizen in 
1919. 
Pope Benedict XV, made him a commander of the Order of St. Gregorj' the Great and knight commander of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre. Pope Pius XI, n^vade him a papal count. France made him a chevalier of the Legion of Honor and the city of Dublin made him a freeman in 1923. 
Lewis * X. Burridge> 90, one of the oldest alumni of the University, died in early Sep­tember. Mr. Burrldge was a pioneer Benton Harbor, Mich., merchant. He attended Notre Dame in 1S72-74. 
Edward C. Brown, *99, Helena, Mont., and X^arl W' Broivn, '93, Townsend, Mont., brothers, both numbered among Notre Dame's most prominent and devoted alumni in the far West, died within three days of each other, last June. 
Ed Brown was a member of Brown Bros. Lumber Company of Helena for a great many years and was 64. Sur^'iving are his wife, two sons, a daughter and a grandson. He died suddenly on June 12. 
Earl Brown, 75, died on June 15, also sud­denly. He leaves two sons, two daughters and eight grandchildren. Like his brother Ed, he was a football player at Notre Dane and won a monogram in 1892-93. 
At its deadline for this issue, the "Alumnus" heard of the death in St. Louis of John JA, Corley, '02, one of the most prominent Notre Dame men in the St. Louis area. For many years, Mr. Corley had been host to the St. Louis Notre Dame Club at its annual summer outing. 
A fuller account of Mr. Corley's life and death will be supplied to the "Alumnus" by the St. Louis Club for the December issue. 
I^rry V. Crumley, *03, Cincinnati, brother of Rev. Thomas A. Crumley. C.S.C., '96, and father of Capt- Thomas F. Crumley, ex. '40, died on Aug. 27 from a heart attack. A life­long resident of Cincinnati, Mr. Crumley was president and one of the founders of Crumley. Jones & Crumley Co., contractors. At Notre Dame he was a civil engineering classmate of John H. Neeson. who died only a few days later in Philadelphia, also from a heart attack. 
Surviving Mr, Crumley, besides his son and Father Crumley, are his wife, three daughters, another brother and a sister. 
Frank A> Zink, '08, Canton, C, ^'aledictorian of his class, died in his home on May 31 from a heart attack suffered a week earlier. A life resident of Canton, he was one of the most active Catholic laymen locally and promi­nent in business and financial circles. 
Following his graduation, Mr. Zink returned 
The Notre Dame Aliamnus 
to the University to take a post-graduate course in law and to serve as instructor in Latin and Greek. He later w^as secretary-treasurer of the Canton City Bottling Co. In 1930 he be­came associated with his brother, William, in the insurance business. 
Mr. ZlnU was a life member of St. Peter's Chu'rch in Canton, the Knights of Columbus, the Stark County Board of Elections; secretary of the Mercy Hospital board and a member of the boards of Mt. Marie Academy. Catholic Community League, Stark Federal Savings & Loan Co., and secretarj- of the Canton Pattern & Manufacturing Company. He is survived by his wife, two daughters, two sons, four brothers and four sisters. One of his sons, Harold, is a C.S.C. seminarian at Notre Dame. 
William J. Heyl, '11, vice-president of Heyl and Patterson, Inc. Pittsburgh, died July 23 after a prolonged illness. Educated in the local parochial schools. Mr. Heyl later gradu­ated in engineering at Notre Dame. He is survived by his wife and a brother and three sisters, all of Pittsburgh. 
T. IVank McGnirc, '14, died August 13. He was president of the McGuire-Woodlock Paint Co. of Chicago. Surviving are his wife and five children and his brother, James E., '19. Mr. McGuire was long an active participant In the affairs of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
William A* Cnrley, Jr., ex. 'IS. Chicago, died in Hlnes veterans' hospital on June 14. He was a former assistant city editor on the "Chicago He raid-American" and his father is the editor-in-chief of the "New York Journal-American." Mr. Curley enlisted in the Navy in 1917, the day the United States declared war against Germany. 
Surviving are his wife, two sons, a daughter, his father, three sisters and one brother. 
HQ^O H . Voedisch, ex. *20, vice-president of the South Bend Brewing Company, died in his home on Sept. 20 of a cerebral hemorrhage. A student in the University when the United States entered world war No. 1, Hugo aban­doned his studies to enlist in the Army. He is survived by his widow, a brother. John T.. '28, and two sisters. 
Kicbard J. Falvey, '23, outstanding on the campus as a top pitcher on the baseball teams of the early •20's and later a well-known Winamac. Ind.. business man and farmer, died suddenly from a heart attack in his home on July 24. 
Dick spent his entire 47 years as a Winamac resident, occupying the home in which he was bom. Following military training during the latter part of the first world war and his years at Notre Dame, he became associated with his brother in the operation of a garage. Later he served as a state oil inspector. He was a member of the American Legion and Knights of Columbus. 
Dick leaves his wife and four daughters and a brother. 
Herbert W. Reed, '24, died In Valley City. C, on Sept. 8., according to brief Information which just reached the Alumni Office. 
The Alumni Office has just heard that Thomas F. Byan, '26, Trenton, N. J., died on April 26, 1943. 
Vnmds J. McGreal, '31, Chicago, assistant United States attorney, and head of the crimi­nal division in the office of the U. S- attorney, died Aug. 24 as the result of complications following an emergency appendectomy. 
Frank was first appointed to the U. S. attorney's office in October, 1939, and was rapidly promoted, becoming head of the criminal division in June, 1945. He had been In charge of prosecuting several notable cases and was widely recognized as an attorney of exceptional ability, one who carried out in 

his work the distinctive promise he had shown as a prominent undergraduate at Notre Dame. 
Pranlc obtained his law degree from the Chicago Law School. He was admitted to practice in Illinois in June, 1935. 
Surviving are Frank's wife, three sons, a daughter, his parents, a brother and three sisters. 
Ensene I. Csttie, '37, Philadelphia, owner and pilot of the plane In which he crashed, died on July 7 shortly after being admitted to the hospital. A friend who was a passenger escaped with minor bruises and cuts. 
Gene was an official of the Cattle Galvan­izing Co. He is survived by his wife, a daughter, his parents, three brothers, all In the Navy, Joseph, '38, Jules, '45, and Jerrett, 
•47, and four sisters. 
Maitin Dolak, Jr., ex. '38, Toungstown. O., died of complications following an operation. He had been in ill health for some time. Martin had been in the grocery business In Toungstown with his father. Besides his wife, he leaves his parents, and three sisters. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to lather Kaymund Murray, C.S.C., '18. T. Frank, '25 and William B., '32, Murray on the death of their mother; Father Philip BeasbaOf C.S.C., '19, on the death of his father; Father James 
W. ConneHon, C.S.C., '20, on the death of his sister; Slarcellns Kirchner, '29, on the death of his father: Prof, Frank Moran, '27, on the death of his brother who was killed in the service In Europe; Thomas F. Byrne, '28, on the death of his father; Fatlier lAtvis i. Ftttz, C.S.C., '32, on the death of his father and family; Prof. John F. >'lms, '37, on the death of his father; Frank Cosuwve, '38, on the death of his father; U. Walter J. Harriil, '38. on the death of his father; John P. Donnelly, '39, on the death of his mother; John E., '39, and Robert D., ex. '43, Mc^uliffe, on the death of their father; the family of John I. .\lcGln­
nis on the death of Mr. McGinnis, father of CpL John J. AIcGinnis, Jr., ex. '44, who was killed in action May 3, 1945 on Mindanao. 
PERSONALS 
1890-9 9 R«T-^f-A. MacNmmara, '97» I07 V y y st^ Joseph'. Mineral Baths Mount Clemens, Mich. 
From Father John Mac (who this year, for the first time, will be unable to attend the Army-Notre Dame game): 
"No doubt, like myself you were stunned to hear of John Neeson*s death. I<ast night when reading the obituary notices In Sunday's 
•New York Times.' I came on it suddenly and it hit me like a bolt from, the blue. I'm still dazed by it. .. . I was just about to answer a letter I had received from him three weeks ago. I had written him for some In­formation r wanted and incidentally had handed on to him the attendance record for the Notre Dame-Army game. He refused to accept it and In characteristic fashion said he expected to see me as large as ever at the game. . . . John's death is an awful blow to his friends and an irreparable loss to ,Notre Dame and our alumni. Genial, Idndly and lovable, he was the ideal Notre Dame man— there may have been his equal, but there never was or will be be his superior." 
From Hash C. Mitchell C.B. *95; B.S. '9S: 
". . . . I fully agree with you that Notre Dame *is still the Notice Dame of old, changed perhaps in appearance, but the same in heart.* because those things that are Notre Dajno c.'>n­not change. 'The old order changeth. giving place to new' may apply to customs and forms, but not to faith. and moral standards. Jt Is good to remember this now, when human traditions are going overboard ho frequently. 
giving place to things that may never hrcome traditions. 
"At some later time, perhaps, the battered remains of the Class of *95 may rendevous on the porch of Sorin Hall, and gazingf at Its protecting cover, wonder If it was placed there to protect a softening generation or because it was made necessary by the increased aggressiveness of the successors to the Srater commissioners' of the elghteen-nineties. Per­haps IMher III may know—; please give him my loving regards." 
Maroell^s L. Joslyn, '93, Chicago, after 50 years with the Joslyn Manufacturing and Supply Co., resigned as president. He will re­tire from active participation in the business, but will remain In an advisory capacity as chairman of the board. 
1913 ^*''' ^ Byrn^ UiiiTaiaitj U­brary, Notre Dam*. Ind. 
A FBIEND OF THE YANKS 
Keene Fitzpatrick, o! San Frandace. ia president (and has been mnee h« helped organize it in March. 1943) oi FHends oi the Yanks, Inc., a local Toluntary dvilian organization oi 275 prominent business men and some business women who devote themselTes to the welfare of men and women in service. 
Friends of the Yanks does "anything" for service people—and does it qoickly in response to emergency needs; it has dis­tributed millions of cigarettes to wounded men in the area; sent Christmas gifts overseas; gathered and distributed thous­ands of books and thousands of pictures, collected all sorts of othletic equipment luggage, etc., and has paid for the con­struction and furnishing of day rooms in aimy camps and hospital. There is no paid staff—all work is done by volunteers. 
Now that the shooting wor is over. Friends of the Yanks is devoting itself in a special way to the needs of occupation troops, to the 'wounded veterans and to the reorientation of veterans in civilian life. 
29 

Keen* boa genanoaiy oeceptod rh«iiim<inship oi the VoroMeBol ( oi the Notre Dome Chib of Ilestteni Cedi­letaia and be will be paitieiilaBlr ^ad to asBflt any Hebe Dome veteiaa ia the S^ -Frandace area. Ka office (aleag wift OM Friends of Toafca office) ia at 155 Moal­gome^r St. SOB F^anriarou 
Mary Ann Xltxpatrldc, t—ti«>r 'at Keene. was married in Palo Alto. Calif., on Alls. 4, to I*. Bobert Sala, 
Jla, OTBiiee ia now In charge of TeteraniT affairs in the employment department of tlw Detroit Edison Co. Jim w«a for a time on lend-lease from Detroit Edison for.service witli Armar ordnance. ^ 
jqjA Frank H. Hayes, «42 TUrd 
•^ '^ Ave.. a» k ^n^*m, CaUf. 
After extensive service overseas. Mid. GcB. FiBBCia F. Malrefcj la stationed at the Division of Aviation, Headquarters, Harine Corpi^ Washington, O. C. . . 
191 5 Jamas .E. Saaford, 5236 N. 
' " ^ Lakewood Ave., OiicarH ID. 
Little has been lieard from and of HUttfa W. Goodwyn, who' received both a lJtt.B. and s IJI,.B. in 1915, bat on the strength of his academic bacicgroand and ontstanding marks; • his success seemed assureiL In late July, the news was received that Mr. Goodwyn was actively campaigning as a candidate for the state legislature in the Democratic primary held In Bichmond. Va. 
It was with regret that the Alumni Office received the announcement of Kev. Avfarfcic 
H. Dolaa's, intention to leave his parish, and South Bend indeflnltely because of ill health. Father Dolan. pastor of St. Patrick's Charch for five years; has become Icnown throughout the city because of his active interest in civic affairs, president of the South Bend Community Fund, director of the speak­ers' bureau of the ITnited War Chest, a member of the executive board of the St. Joseph County Council, Boy Scouts of America, a Botarlan and a member of the South Bend Country Club. 
191 7 B. J. Vdl, 206 E. Tatt St.. 
Sbntb Bend. Ind. 

With his son, who was registering to enter school In 1948. Oeacge °'i-n1ise of Uma. O.. visited the campus recently. 
These are some of the 25-year men of  1120 t^e gathered Infaoidly at the lU­
versity in late lune. Left to right: Bm "Bed" Byaa, Fa&er Fkoak GeedidL CLS. C leApk Bergman, Ed Doran. Father Stanislaus liaewaki. CS-C Pcral CenoghoB. Eddie Maahnii Johnny Powers and Tom Beacom. 
1920 Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
Didc Muckefinan, former vice-president of the St, Louis Browns, recently became president of the club. He is also vice-president of the City Ice and Fuel Co., and is associated with numerous other businesses in St. Louis. 
Al R>-an of Buffalo. X. Y., is director of sales of the Houde Engineering Division of the Hou­daille-Hershey Corp., 537 E. Delevan St. 
149 7 Gerald Ashe, 19 Dorking Road, 
•^* * Rochester. N. Y. 
From Kid Ashe: Kcnn Nyhan has reported in from Toledo that everything is fine in tliat section except the food situation. He has not entered the Maritime Service, but is making the boat run to Cedar Point. O., quite regularly. 
According to the public press. Major £«Idie Anderson of the medical forces is expected back at Iowa University some time this year. He left his position of head coach of football at Iowa to assume Army medical duties. Clem Crowe, last year at X. D., is boss for the present season. 
Jobh Faal Callen has made another generous offering of first editions to the University Lib­rary at Notre Dame. Some of the books donated are: 
"Night Barn," by Jack London, "Arlie Gelston" by Roger Sergei, Os;i Johnson's "I Married Adventure." Marrell's "The 25th Man" and Irving Stone's "Sailor on Horseback." 
We learn on excellent authority that in one of the volumes donated by J. P., was found a fifty dollar war bond which J. P. had been using for a book mark. It might be well and profitable for friends of the CuUens to cultivate the habit of borrowing books from the Cullen libi-ar>-. 
Father Robert Shechan, C.S.C, has been transferred from the University of Portland, Oregon, to Notre Dame, according to official announcement. Father Bob matriculated witli our class, and was one of the foot soldiers of Company 2, Sorln Barracks, in "World AVar I. 
An Army lieutenant in Guadalcanal who was very close to I.t, Arnold SfcGmth, '22, when he was killed in an explosion last Januan*. reports that Arnold was liked by everybody who served with him . A recent issue of the 'Alumnus* carried the news that a recreation field on Guadalcanal was named McGrath Field In memory of Arnold. 
Frank Blocmer of I^ouisvIIle. who visited the campus with his wife and two daughters in August said that Dr. John Mohardt had re-received his discharge from the ser\'ice. John's last service appointment was at Nichols Hospi­tal, Louisville. 
One of two surviTors of the 17 chaplains with Lt. Gen. Jonathan M. WainwriKht darioc the battle of Bataan is MAJOR JOHN E. DUFFIT, '23. f^he r DnlTy's experiences are legion. Daring: the "death march*' he fainted twice. Tlie first time he was revived by a Japanese rnard %vho ^v e him tea and biscuits and told hint to keep np or he would be shot. Hie second time he was griTen np for dead. 
**1 soess I didn't respond to revival attempts,** Father Daffy said, "for I was riven op for dead. lAter I was {Hcked up by Philippine ffucrrilla soldieis. .. . I lived for two wcHs in a fishpond dnrinr the dajrtime to escape the Japanese." Later, the Japanese captared him. 
"Once at Oolan^opoo naval base we were placed in a tennis court, 1,300 of ns. There was only one spigot of water and we took tnms drinldnr at it. IVe were kept in the Fhilippines a lone time until we wore shipped to Moji in Japan. Dnrinr this trip there mrc vis many as 500 persons in one hold. Allied planes bombed ns one day and ncarl>- half of us were killed. 
"niien we sot to the Mukden camp," IVither Duffy said, **we were treated much better. One Japanese ductor should set a medal from the 
U. S. Government for the ^ray be boocht and procured medical stqiplies for ns." 
Father Duffy, a priest of the Toledo ^ocese, has been an Armj- chaplain since 1933. 
Pacific His wife and nine children have taken up residence in Ludington. Mich., from whence the two oldest boys, Mike and Tom. will come to Notre Dame in November to matriculate as freshmen. 

1923 ^*"'"' ^*^^^' ^^ ^^y*^ ^^< 
New Canaan, Conn. 
Lanns Glotzbach, Minneapolis, personnel di­rector of Northwest Airlines, has been named executive assistant to the president- Linus directed the staffing of all Northwest's war projects, with personnel expanding from ap­proximately 800 before the war to a peak of more than 10,000. 
1924 ^' ^' Hayes, 393 - 7th Ave., 
* Room 1515. New York City, 
Ray Brady, formerly assistant county attor­ney of Salt Lake County and formerly assist­ant city attorney of Salt Lake City, has been released from active duty by the AAF. He was called to active duty from reserve status August, 1941, and rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel. 
Another lieutenant colonel. Bob Riordan, was, at the latest report, headed toward the 
1925 ^""^^ ^' Hurley, AFD, American Red Cross, Camp Patrick Henry, Virginia. 
Jim Crowley, commissioner, presided at a meeting in Chicago of the All-American Foot­ball Conference. He gave a partial list of the headliners signed by various All-Amer­ica teams. Among them are Anselo Bertelll with Los Angeles and Herb Coleman, lioa Rsthkus, '43. Dippy Evans, »43. and Cnishtoa .Miller, 'tt with Cleveland. 
From Myron Hood, Cincinnati, with a war bond: 
"I've been 'dead' a long time, but the good fathers at Notre Dame taught me and the rest of us that we should believe in resurrection. It wouldn't be fair to let them down or in any way try to prove them wrong, so here I am. back again. 
"Will be glad when transportation ts such 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
that I can come back in person. Have six children who will like to see Notre Dame." 
Bea Kestinr* Toledo, county engineer of Lucas County since 1933, resigned recently to become associated with L. Compe of Toledo In the construction business. Ben had been elected four times to his county post. He has two boys at Notre Dame. 
1^2 6 Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Ironwood, Mick. 
Camp Atterbury, Ind-, in early August brought together, for the first time in .19 years, U . Col. John Worden Kane, Binghamp­ton. N. Y., and the managing editor of the "Alumnus." "Wa" was head of neuro-surgery in the Wakeman Hospital Center at Camp Atterbury after long service In England. 
Joe Boland, conductor of nearby '27 doings, tried to claim Mike Bolder of Detroit for the Boland news center, thinking that Mike had taken that extra year to play on the refectory head table team, or something. Happily, the sly attempt was thwarted by wide-awake editing, and so we can report here that Mike was in South Bend and on the campus in August. He saw Boland and tried to see Dooley, who was on vacation. Mike is still with the Fisher Body Corp. 
Vic Ijcmmer got out some letters in August to assorted '2Cers and there were some results —one of them tragic: for the first time, the Alumni Office, and most of the class we're sure, heard of the death, on April 26, 1942, of Thomas F. Byan, Trenton. N^ j . No details came with the notification of Tom's death. 
And. then, to make you check back on those passing years, there was Art Bidwill's letter with the news that he had just taken his oldest son to Notre Dame to register him for the term starting next March. As far as the elderly managing editor knows. Art will be the first '26 man to have a son on the campus. Any competitors? 
Jerry Smith, manager for the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Kansas City. Mo., says that Bome Ducan is the closest approach to a '26 man that he sees—but he sees Rome about once a week. Jerry was up to the campus last fall for the Great I^akes game. 
CharUe Mnbuie^-. with Walgreen Drug stores for 18 years. Is now director of merchandising in the Walgreen liome office at 744 Bowen Ave., Chicago 15, according to his letter to Vic, accompanied by a gift to the Third Annual Alumni Fund. 
Jim Glynn wrote to Vic from his office at 3322 Wllshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5. where he Is in charge of West Coast sales for the Anchor Hocking Glass Corp. Just a week before, Jim had seen in San Diego Joe Wacner, formerly of Tiffin. C , who Is now associated with the 
U. S. Grant Hotel in San Diego. And on the dajrhe wrote Jim was to have lunch with Marty BrUI, of post '26 football fame, ^s-ho is a salesman for the Alfred Hart Distilleries 
1927 ^''•^P^ M. Boland, Radio SU-Hon WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: 
Walter W. "Bed" Smith joined the sports staff of the New York "Herald-Tribune" Sept. 
24. Red had been on the Philadelphia "Record" since 1936. following eight years' service on the St. Louis "Star-Times." 
Toai Nash—now engaged In his own con­tracting business in Chicago—took time-out to watch the Yankees-White Sox in a double­header recently, where we ran Into him. Tom reports that his old roomie, Joe Delhi Bbria, Is his next-door neighbor. 
Bichava "Bed" Smith^(he's the other Red) 
- . . has reported to the New York football Giants, for his work with them as line coach. Should the Chicago Cubs get Into the World 

Series, then Red will take a leave-of-absence from the Giants to re-Join the Bruins for the Big Show! 
Cspt. <Cli^>Iaiii) Jim Moran sent along the followlns: letter along with his generous con­tribution to the Alumni Fund: 
"I'm over In the Philippines, Assure you it is no fun to be with the Infantry when they are In combat, but so far I have come out pretty lucky. 1927 is a. long way off but still it seems like not so long ago. 
"Quite often I run Into a Notre Darner. I used to hit Joe 3IcCabe skipper on an LST. It paid otl too because I used to go aboard and get a good meal once in a while. He's from Detroit. 
"Had the best meal I've had since I left the States with Ed. M. Sullivan from Chicago. He's skipper on an LST. After putting up with army meals for a long time, I went aboard and he gave me all the steak and frcnch fried potatoes that I could eat." 
Slim plckin's pals, I know; but—how about a note or three to me, at the above address? Here's a couple of addresses possibly over­looked in past reports: 
Joe Griffin, '2S, is a special agent with the Aetna Fire Group of insurance companies. Office, 410 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago. 
Col. James Fenton McManmon, a Princeton All-American, brother of John and Art, and holder of the Legion of Merit, has been nomi­nated by President Truman for temporary pro­motion to the rank of brigadier general m the United States Army. 
Ijt. ing) Cletus S. Bauworth dropped in at the University enroute to the Bureau of Per­sonnel in Washington, D. C. 
Dan Ctumingham. now with General Blectric, expects to be traveling often to the G.E. Fort Wayne, Ind., plant and will be stopping off to renew old acquaintances at Notre Dame. 
Sgt. Chack Beretz got back from Germany early in July and a little, later was discharged from service. In the best Beretz manner he writes, "I had a lot of fun over there and came back In one piece and still fat as hell." 
1928^^"' * F. Buckley, 617 Lincoln-way West, Mishawaka, Ind. 
Good to hear from Major Gay I#oranffer of Rantoul, 111., on Aug. 14. .. . "I arrived home recently after being overseas for two years in the New Guinea and Philippine campaigns where I was a member of the medical staff of the Fifth Field Hospital and also had com­mand of one of the units of the hospital. I am home on the point system and soon may be in civilian life again. My best regards to all." 
John Btckortl has been promoted to assistant manager of the auallty control department at Armour & Co., Chicago. 
. Loo Buckley, the 17-year veteran of secretarj'­ing for the class of *28—and could any one, anywhere find a more loyal, effective secretary? —left in mid-September for Biarritz, France, where for the next year he will teach econ­omics in the Army University Study Center. (We'll give you a more exact address for hlra as soon as we get It). 
Before he left the U.S.A., and even while he was scurrying around in search of uniforms. Louie, in his habitually efficient way, asked IViiiwr Jim McShane, S.J.f Joe Lanston, Bob ETBIK and John HcMahon to contribute '28 news for this issue of the "Alumnus." Here Is the response: 
Father Jim, giving missions "from St. Paul to Albuquerque," ^vrltes: "Back from the Pacific—John M. (^rroU, Springfield, III., Is home on a 30-day furlough—a commander In the Seabees. Vince Walsh Is planning to make a stowaway out of me and drive me, a la hitch hike, to Mexico. 
"Bill Neir once lived In Illlopolls, III. Now he is just about the outstanding leader In Catholic Action In the diocese of Bismarck. 
N. D. You remember he finished his _ Ph.D. In education at Stanford and now Is super-Intendant of schools in Mandan, N. D. . . . His wife Is a fine girl. Maybe you met the two of them when they spent a summer at Notre Dame recently. Now that they have taken up Spanish they have a 'discussion group* of Span­ish speaking workers on their front porch once in a while. 
"When I am in St. Louis I enjoy the St. IJOUIS Club meetings. I taught a number of the St. Louisans who went to N. D.: FehUs, \%'rape, 3iorb Hunthnosen, Man^elsdorf. Capt. Jim Wrapc was co-pilot for the command­ing officer at Great Bend (B-29) base In Kan­sas. He had finished his missions in the ETO. Gene fehlig had a marvelous escape on D-Day when a bullet stopped Inside his helmet. 
"I haven't been to Collegcvllle. Minn., since Joe Benda left his coaching job there, but I shook the Benda hand there one beautiful fall day on the practice field. I visited Em Hynes who used to be at N. D. Is Ray Muck still In the Navy? I heard from him down in Texas. 
"Father J. HuKh O'Doaneil lectured In Spring­field, 111., at the spot where Neenan conducts his orchestra. As you may guess, the "Victorj* March" was the introduction. Did I tell you I met Jim Bray on the "L" after seeing a Northwestern game, and An^e Gnldabini. Ange Is almost a real estate operator, he bought such a large spot on Whitefish Bay." 
Phillips Petroleum's J4ie Lanston, father of two girls and a boy, the youngest being Mike, now two, reports that the only '2Ser he's met In his two and a half yer.rs in St. Louis Is Fattier Jim McShane, and that was a year ago at a St. Louis Club meeting. Father Jim had just come in from giving a mission in Algona, la., where Wade Sallivan, '26. Is post­master. Joe hears about Carroll Pinkley who, at the latest report, was still at Ft. Sheridan, near Chicago. 
Joe occasionally sees Dr. Bert Coughlin, Jerry Arnold and Fred IVeber of St. Louis and he met Capt. Dao O'Grady, philosophy prof on leave for Army service, when Dan was stationed at Jefferson Barracks, near St. Louis. 
From John 3IcMahon: Comes one of those periodic postcards from liouie Buckley, •2S*s Old Faithful, requesting class notes for Dooley, and soon. Look. Louie —you siphoned off my depleted stock a year or so ago and there's been no chance for a refill. My first reaction to the appeal was, "why pick on me?" Then I got to thinking about the loyal way you have carried the column these 17 years. Democracy was work­ing at Its best when we elected you class 
secretary. But then ours was a brilliant class and such an Intelligent selection was only to be expected. Even so. you have' well merited the "difftlngaished service" badge for '28ers. 
Tea, I know you asked for NEWS but you've struck a dry socket. -Now, "let me see.** (Witli finger fignratively pointed at temple). Well. Frits WUsMi and your correspondent helped promote the Plttsbnrgh Club's annual retreat at St. Paul's Monastery here months ago, back when the snow lay around about. Jade Sheedy. another *28'er, was among the pious clients. When at lunch in the various MeSorley institu­tions hereabouts. I see John occasionally for a "beUo." Xt. Jim Callea, USNR, my one­time fellow townsman., was far off aboard a man o* war the last I heard. Good news to note that I<t. Bob Knox is back from the wars. 
Trying to report on old classmates brings you face to the fact that the rushing years continually widen the breaches of contact. Nor did the loss of our 15th reunion do anything to help. Time's artillery is shelling most of us. leaving balding heads, furrowed brows and expanding girths—God help us! One is assailed by the unhappy thought that by now ' 2Serfl probably pass on the street and fall to recog­nize each other. 
Yea, yea—but I told you I didn't have any news! All right. I'll try again. 
BUI SbUn holds a responsible research post for Westlnghouse Electric. I'm told, but we never see him. George Kelly continues as "city editor" of the "Youngstown' Vindicator," according to last advices. Speaking of Kelly's and '28 journalists, "what ever became" of "Turk?" And while on the subject of "Turks," Meinert might as well have taken the veil for all we see of him. I saw Cbariie T*tteii last Universal N.D. Night and we hear of his continued golf triumphs from time to time. It must be grand to play tbat kind of game. Remember the Erskine course and the long trek it was out there, and Chaln-o*-Lakes? What a lot of puddles that layout had! (Ah. the misty past 'ere the campus boasted a golf course.) 
Joe Canty and l exchanged dispatches on Christmas cards each year. He's a legal light in ColumbusL With gas rationing lifted, may-haps we can do something about that get-together we've been threatening. Art <Bed> CtaBty> once of Batavia, N. Y., Is located in San Marino, Calif. Bide Greene, who came from Joliet, Is another case for the Missing Persons Bureau, along with Jiat Morrisscy. Art SteviB, then of Rochester, N. T.. is now in Milwaukee. Joe Breir of our vintage lefF the "Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph" recently to become assistant managing editor of three Catholic weeklies In Ohio—Cleveland, • Toledo and Youngstown. He la in Cleveland. B«nie GaibcT and I have an occasional session in New York. I always forget to ask about his old townsman, Han4d CanaTaa. There are so 
Two out of four ore Notre Domo man at this dmnor la Imuaiiig* Ouna. ia Juao* 1945. Left to right are Congreuman Bobert A. GnmL 'A Sooth Bend "mho with a Coa­gressional conunittee was trareling through Qdaa; aa uaideatifiecl Chinese gea­eroL- Harry W. nannery. '23. Los Angeles, CBS news coanaentotor. who wos represeai­ing CBS on a separate around-the-wodd Inspedioa tripu and CoagressoKm Peter lannaa of Alabama who was traveling with Congressmoa Groat. 
many like that of whom we never hear hide nor hair and wonder about at times, as: 
Dick Elpers, the BOT brothers. Al Tehan, Tony Cercs> Troy Bonner (from Old Mississip.,) Blanrice McMemunin, Joe (Blue Circle) Donui, Tom LAvalle, Joo Bivnnon, the Murphy broth­ers from Pine Bluff, Art Denchfield. Dave Gib­son, S'le Ed McSweeney and on and on. 
But then it was 21 Septembers ago that the Class of '28 was born. And tlie years between have been "the tumult of the time disconso­late," with depressions, wars, conversion, re­conversion, life and death. God speed our '2S'ers now returning from the wars and a prayer for those who sleep. 
Yes, we are lone overdue for a reunion, for a chance to form ranks again. I move you, Mr. Secretarj-, that it be scheduled soon and to last about a week! 
For succeeding issues of the "Alumnus'* dur­ing his absence from the country in 1945-46 Louie Buckley is asking the following to take o\-er in his place: December, 1945, issue. Bill Kearney and Bcmie Garber; Februarj-, Jack Hnllen and Henry Hasiley; April, Bob Grant and Paul Bmst; June. Tom Bj-me and Jack ravelle; August, Bob Kirby and Art Mitiguj-; October, John Icoe and Dave Smith; December, Herb 3IcCabe and I*eo Mclnt>xe. News is due in the Alumni Office the fifteenth of the month preceding publication. The Alumni Office will send notifications to each pair of men well in advance of the date their news is due. 
192 9 Major Joseph P. McNamara, 
• '^ ' 1314 N. Court House RcL, Ar­linf ton, Va. 
lA. Com. Hariey 3IcDevitt, U.S.X.R., has donated two volumes to the Xotre Dame liibrarj-. One is a beautifully printed and illus­trated volume on *'Knots" and the other Is the recently published "Lake Superior," one of the best of the popular Great I^kes series. Hariey is attached to the midshipmen school at Columbia University. 
Father I^a Thornton, CS.C, who was in N, T. C. with Bishop O'Hara, is now an assist­ant in New Orleans in Sacred Heart parish. 
Father Joseph Barrj-, C.S.C, Army chaplain, wrote that he flew from Munich to Paris to London to Glasgow, then took a boat to Ireland. (This was written in the first part of August.) He concluded his letter with, "hope to see you in September." 
I.t, Col. Tommy Qnalters. former bodyguard for the late Presidmt Booserelt, has been a.warded the Legion of Merit for his service with the CIO Detachment of the AAF In Italy. He has been with the AAF since May, 1942. 
193 0 Harold E. Dxtke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
lit. Cmdr. Ted Twom^^ has been assigned officer in charge of physical training and the cadet regiment at the tT. S. Naval Air Station In Norman, Okia, After receiving his indoctrina­tion at Annapolis In June, 1942, Ted saw duty at NAS, Melbourne, Pla., for 18 months before joining the staff of Fleet Air Wing II. 
Father Joe Kmiecik, C.S.C.,^ has been assigned to the AAF overseas replacement depot. Kearns, Utah, after serving in the Aleutians from March, 1943 to June, 1945. 
Bob Hag^gcrty of Toledo, C, has been pro­moted to captain at the Rock Island Ordnance Center in Illinois. Walt Parent's new address is 1-S05 Dover Rd., Santa Barbara, Calif. 
Joe Abbott has been promoted to the posi­tion of personnel manager of the Federal Tele­phone and Radio Corp., Newark, N. J. He was assistant personnel manager. 
1st lit. Tom Traocbbcr, with the Eighth Air Force in England for two years in the JAG department, returned to the U.S.A. this sum­mer for reassignment. He and the managing ed met up at Camp' Atterbury In August when the N. D. baseball team played there. 
IOO I John F. Saunders, Early ft Moor, Inc., 139 Blackstone St., Boston, Mass. 
You know by now how effectively Jade Saunders has taken hold as class secretary: a letter to each member of the class and a class list, with addresses, to each member. And besides Jack has> great plans In the making for the fifteenth reunion of the class which, it is hoped, can be held on the campus some time next summer. (Concrete plans for such a reunion have to await a definite announce­ment by the University as to when the three-semester-per-year plan now In operation can be discontinued. While this plan remains in force reunions cannot be held). 
Jack has In mind, to commemorate the fifteenth reunion, a class book that "would carry a few sentences from each class member telling of his doings since June of '31." Jack continues: "It sounds like quite an undertaking, but as a matter of fact the individual con­tribution from each class member wouldn't be much, and the folks in my office here would do the assembling, filing and making ready for either mimeographing or printing. If enough members of the class write that they approve, we can appoint committees and promptly get to work. . . ." 
So there you are—a generous offer If we ever saw one? Be sure to write to Jack at once that you approve and will cooperate. 

Further to organize the fifteenth reunion. Jack has appointed regional chairmen and associate regional chairmen to "beat the drums" in their respective territories. Tliese gentle­men are: Eastern Region—Dan Halpin, chair­man ; Dob Balfe, Dick 0*DonnelI and Bob Massey; Midwestern Region—Eddie Ryan, chair­man. Dan Clark, Al Grisanti, Joe Deeb, Joe Lauerman and Ken FSslileich; Southwest Di­vision—Bert Maloney, chairman, Haskell Askew and Bill Morphy; Pacific Coast Division—Matt Cullinan, chairman, Hesiiie Kuehl, Dick Baker, I'aul Cusliing and Walt Beesley. 
And now, with a low bow of real gratitude to Jack, who has done all this work "on his own," we give you the earlier returns In re­sponse to his letter to each class member: 
Dick Baker (Philosophy Department. St.. ilary's College, California): Reports that, after nine years teaching Philosophy at Nazareth College In Kalamazoo, he has taken a similar position at St. Mar>-'s. Presently, Dick is living at the college and in his spare time trying to find a house so that he can bring his wife and two daughters out to the west coast. 
The Navy has taken over most of the cam­pus at St. Mar>-'s for its Pre-Flight School, but the college has enough room to take care of the reduced enrollment. Jim Pbelan, is coach of the St. Mary's College team, Dick and Jim have had several talks about Notre Dame in the "old" days. Frank I>ahy is in this vicinity acting as some sort of navy supervisor, but Dick hasn't had a chance to talk to him as yet. So far he hasn't had much opportunity to look up any of the other Notre Damo grads in Oakland or San Francisco. 
Joe LAuerman (Executive Offices Marinette Knitting Mills, Marinette, Wise): Hasn't heard from Tom Ashe since Tom left the west coast for "somewhere In the Pacific" Joe has recent­ly had a letter from Johnny Dorschel, now in Chicago where he ably represents an engineer­ing firm. Joe looks forward to meeting up 
•with many of his friends at one of the foot­ball games this season. 
Jack Dempsey (Bouck, Hilton & Dempsey, Attomeys-at-Law, First National Bank Bldg.» Oshkosh, Wis.): 
"So we have our 15th Reunion coming up! Remember when we looked upon the boys of *1G as blood brothers of the Piltdown Han? Next June we will probably have advanced to that classification in the eyes of the boys of the class of '46. As for myself. I'll match my hair and waistline with any member of 
•31. Also, aa to kids, the present count Is four^-Tom, Jerry, Mary and Mary Susan. Of course. I do not know the present score of Al SteiMUi. I plan to attend the reunion and hope to see BUI O'Brien* Austin Boyle, Ed. Mehicn, John Zaback and the other fellows who worked with me on the 'Juggler.' Those in the armed forces will probably be released as over-age destroyers by next June and will be In position to attend. 
"Brother Joe, '33. is a flag lieutenant for some Navy brass at Manila. He was in the Armed Guard from August of '42 to September of '44. Brother George, '39, was killed in Italy in June of '44 (August, '44, 'Alumnus*). 
"This is the first report I have made to any of the '31 secretaries; perhaps I'll make another before I960." 
Walt Cahill (Business Department, Board of Education, City of Chicago, 356 Builders Bldg.. 228 North LaSalle Street Chicago.): 
"Talked to Jim Griffin yesterday. He, as you know, is coordinator of safety for the Board of Education and also a teacher In the Physi­cal Edtftatlon Department. Dave Bush is also connected with the sj-stem as a teacher at Austin High. Don Fartlan has been In the Army for over two years and at present Is in Germany, but we expect him home around November. 
"No doubt, you have heard the sad news of Frank McGreftl's death, which came right on the heels of his swell promotion In the 
D. A.'s Office. 
•«Bert Maloney was In town about a month ago. He and family are located In Austin, Texas, where he has his own agency for International Harvester Co., in the truck di­vision, and is very successful. BUI Leahy is doing a bang up job for Victor Adding in their reconversion program, and as for me, I am now paymaster of the Board of Education and am being kept busy paying 22,000 em­ployees every two weeks." 
Charles "The Bed" Wells (G and S Dis­tributing Co,, 415 Fourth Ave., Nashville, 10, Tenn.): Has since 1938 been doing very well In the wholesale beer business In the "Athens of The South"—The C. S. Wells have a 13­year old boy—The old Paducah pal of Brother "Zip" would be pleased to tour any and all 
N. D,'ers about Nashville. 
Bill Karl, 2ll5 F Street. N.W., Washington, 7, D. C) : "I have been employed as a civilian marine engineer at the Navy Department's Bureau of Ships since 1938 so that I was able to witness and take part in the complete 'Battle of the Potomac' My work has dealt with the development design of patrol boats including those torpedo boats which made such a fine record during the war. My marital status remains—single, 
"The Washington N. D. alumni had a meet­ing of its Board of Governors last night and 
14. C<^ Oonie Donovan put In a surprise ap­pearance. He is on his way back from Italy and is preparing to return to civilian life, Louie Baddey, '28, was there too—he is leav­ing Sunday for Biarritz, France where he will spend about a year teaching in the U. S. Army school. 
"Offhand, I can't think of anyone from the class of '31 down here even though Washing­ton boasts ot over 200 N, D. men^a good many of whom are here for the duration only." 
Tern Knox, (Lawyer, Crj-stal Lake, 111.); Last fall it was a real pleasure to see Vern and his folks when they were in Boston for the Dartmouth-N. D. game. He writes: 
"1 am practicing law here In Crystal Lake and have been getting along fairly well. 
"I do not see very many of our class since most of the ones I knew well in this area are in the service. Al Stepan lives here In Crystal Lake and I see him quite often. I also see Walt Keliy here occasionally, i hear from Jiat Rich occasionally and at the present time he is in Germany," 

Ralph Dalton, (Dr. Pepper Bottling Co., 511 Kimber Court, DanviHo. lU.): "I ani still an employee of Uncle Sam and have orders to report to the Ninth Naval District for de-. mobilization as I now have 55 points. I have not run into many Notre Dame men in my wanderings around the world but still keep In close contact with Kev. BonrlEe Motsett of Gibson City, 111., and James T. Duyle of Chi­cago, III. I am returning to my former posi­tion as treasurer and manager of the Vr, Pepper plant as soon as X am mustered out of the service and will try to struggle along in sptte of the SO percent sugar rationing, which has hurt our business a great deal in the past three years. 
"You can count on my being at the reunion m 1946.** 
Dan Clark, (President, Clark's Lunch Rooms. 
Inc., 104 No, Michigan St., South Bend, Ind.): 
"Not much news witli me, just pounding 
day after day. That which was in my hair 
much of the time the last two or three years, 
food and help shortages, seems to be lifting 
somewhat. My sleep is coming with more 
regularity now, if that means anything, but 
my hair is becoming vastly reduced in acreage 
at tlie same time. Never the twain shall meet 
does not apply to me in this instance. 
"Hope to see you this fall during the foot­ball season. We have a rotten schedule for home consumption, and we South Benders don't deserve such a break. Hu^h Devore is doing a great job, and a thankless job at that, as head coach. He is a swell fellow and certainly deserves the backing of everyone." 
Bin Ca»;sady (President & General Manager, The Jackson Box Co., Cincinnati, 12, (Norwood) O.) "I heartily agree that the blank under 1931 in the 'Alumnus* stood out like a sore thumb and that I had wondered why many times. 
"Throughout the ^ war years we have been BO verj- busy manufacturing shipping contain­ers that I had very little time to see any of our classmates, although prior to that I used to run into various people from time to time. This company has also recently acquired a corporation in North Carolina which of course involves a fair amount of time. 
"In a personal way, we have three very fine youngsters at home—two boys, ages 9 and 2 and one daughter, age 7. We certainly hope to send the boys to Notre Dame one of these days." 
Al Roche, Probation Examiner, New Tork State Department of Correction, Rochester, 
N. Y.: Al has had this job for the past eight years, and he likes It and likes Rochester. He occasionally sees classmates Bub Callahan, Marty Dowling:, Johnny Dorschel, WcU MUM" phy and Bob ProECott. And he'd like to hear from his Notre Dame friends. 
Jock Saundeis, and of course the Alumni Office, would like to have current addresses for many '31 men who are at present "MRU" (mail returned unclaimed) in the alumni files. Will any one who knows the whereabouts of any of the following, please notify either Jack or the Alumni Office: 
Frederick W. Armstrong, WUliam F. Art­mann, Robert lAmls Boer, Roy C. Bailie, Joseph F. Bartone, Harold I<. Bennett, Arthur 
C. Bersen, James F. Bonrdeaa, Maurice £ . Branican, Richard J. Breen, William M. Brown. 
Charles B. Carr, Ansusto C. CataiUal. Albert Cowless, Philip H. Boffy, Robert E. Bnffy, Alraro Ferlini, Oliver £ . Field, WiUiam J. Flabarer, John M. Gorrda, Jose M. Hernandez. 
Hubert E. Hocaiit Edward J. Hoslnski, Andrew J. Kata, Morton B. Keeiran, Francis 
X. Kosky, Charies J. Kovacx. Edward lacfc­air, Richard N. lAcy, Freeman H. I«narwell, John J. Maloney. 
John W. Miudey, Georce I<. O'Connor, Ed­ward J. O'Dea, Joseph V. O'Ronrke. Charles 
C. Pollaski, Wflton J. Sherman, Charies A. 
Smith, Ambrose M. Stoepler, James M. StroaiT, Fmncis J. Svoboda. 
• Tom Masee of Paterson, N. J., was released from service in May, He is working as health education secretary for the Passaic County Tuberculosis and Health Assoc. I*t, Tom Oester, M.C., is stationed at Percy Jones Hospi­tal in Battle Creek, Mich. . . . and Paul Kop­rowski Is teaching at St. Teresa's College, Winona, Minn. 
Ty5 Carl Garmire, Bridgman, Mich., has arrived in the Philippine Islands with an Army Postal Unit shipped directly from France. Joining the attack in France on D plus seven, Carl was wounded before the end of the month and hospitalized. For his battle participa­tion, he was awarded the combat infantry badge, and also wears the Purple Heart. 
Cupt. Jim IIuRlies, whose wife lives In Colum­bus, O., was gniduated from the AAF School of Aviation Medicine, Randolph Field, Texas, on Sept. 15. 
193 2 ^^ James K. Collins, 1135 Man­
• '^ ^ Chester Ave., Norfolk, V«­
From Jim Collins: 
Two very welcome visitors were here last 
month in the persons of Jce Kennedy and 
Julin Perone. Both were drafted into the 
Navy and each has the rating of seaman, 
first class now. 
Joe was superintendent of a number of offices of the U. S. Employment Service in the vicinity of New Haven. He was sent to radar school and is doing that work now aboard the Hubbard, a destroyer transport. He expects to be a civilian again soon. 
Describing just what Perone is up to is a little more difficult. He was discovered at Mass by Bon Rj-an, who brought him over to my house, where he has spent most of his free time since. He is more adept than ever with sleight-of-hand and card tricks, with all tlie embellishments which come with years of practice. He is stationed here in the dubious situation of waiting for a new ship which probably will never be built now. In the meantime he Is impatiently waiting for the day he will return to his wife and three child­ren in BurCato. He was the production mana­ger of the Bell Aircraft plant In Buffalo before entering the Navy. He mentioned that he often saw Bill Hall and Joe Bonn there. 
John Litcher writes from Tokyo Bay that his outfit expects to be the last one to leave that part of the world to return home. He further states that, "Jack Werner reported here as a relief about two months ago, and Is an operations duty officer with our outfit. I' have rnn into both Carroll and Seton Staler (the Cincinnati twins) several times at my favorite drinking spa, which incidentally boasts the largest bar in the world (330 feet) and a non-ending supply of 20-cent Scotch. One of the twins Is on an ICS and the other on an am­munition ship. None of the other N. D. fellows I see are from our era there—they don't even remember the 'Cotillion of Charm.' *' 
Father Henry Helntskill wrote from his home in Milwaukee, where he was spending a well-earned 30-day leave after sea duty as chap-Iain on the Tulagi. He mentioned that he had a fine visit with Father Hack Wilson on the campus recently. 
I.t. Walt Phillips, '31, is on duty here now, and Ens. ^\nd>- Pilney was detached from the Norfolk Air Station, where he managed the baseball team, on Sept. 13. 
Capt. Bill Brown,, Danvile, III., has re­turned to the States after serving 28 months as a member of a medical battalion in the Southwest Pacific. He has been awarded the Purple Heart for wounds received in combat against the enemy, and the Combat Medical Badge, and the European campaign ribbon with two battle stars. 
Marchie Schwartz was officially named head football coach at Stanford University in late August. He had been acting head coach. 
33 

1933 ^^ "^^ Woods, 7944 ElBft 
ATO.« Chicago, IIL 

Just a few months ago. Ckaiies Fartis was a full lieutenant In the Navy. Now a civilian, he Is executive assistant to the vice-chairman of the WPB in Washington. D. C. Joka I Mi Is received his warrant-offlcershlp in Brooklyn, N, Y. 
IJI. Cndr. Kcds 3f«Naasanfc of Blnghamton, 
N. T., has been presented with a letter of commendation for "meritorious and efBcient" performance of his duties as officer in cbarse of a construction battalion unit in the Samoan defense area from April. 1943 to January, 194a. Pfc. Jim Harris has been named line coach of the AAF personnel distribution command at Louisville. Jfm was line coach at Iowa under £ddie Anderson. 
A little info from 14. PhU BaraMdy, U9NR, in Washington: 
". . . . I was married to Ruth E. Schorr in St. Joseph's Church ^ in Duanesne. Pa., oh the 14th of April. I am a lieutenant, USNR. and stationed in the Special Devices Division of the Office of Research and Invention here in Washington." 
Joe Sheeke^ki of Shadyslde, O.. was named backfleld coach at N. D. to succeed' Gene Ronzani, who resigned, Joe was baclEfleld coach at Holy Cross under Eddie Andeisoa in 1933 through 1938, then was head coach there from ­1939 through 1941. He entered the P.B.I. in January, 1942, and served until last January when he resigned to enter private business In Cleveland. 
MA, Chads Hafron was last reported on Okinawa. "By way of information," writes D»Te McOaffiey. "have run into Mmj BIMCIW, '34, and Bo* Heimessey- at Saipan. MUce BeliMy is here at Guam." 
103 4 Josopit R* Glonnon, Jr., Coai­• * ^ morcuJ SolvenU Corp^ 17 E. 42nd St., Now York City, 17. 
Capt. Joe Catom a former South Bend doctor now serving in the Ashbum General hospital, 
, McKinley. Texas, says the nicest thing that has happened to him. in the Army is that the enlisted men refer to him as "G. I. Joe with bars on." Joe entered service In June, 1943. He was assistant medical director at the Uni­versity and was director of the U. S. public health clinic in South Bend. 
Vin Xc4looa is now teaching in Berlin. . . . another Instructor overseas is S|:t, Joe VoeBeie who is at the Army Athletic Staff School in the University of Paris. QJI. 3/e KaMsay Collins^ of Utica, N. T., who is (or was) on a destroyer in the Atlantic, wears the Amer­ican Theater ribbon and the European-African-Middle Eastern Theater ribbon with two com­bat stars for action at the invasions of Nor­mandy and southern France. Kns. jildaa CVHeam of Chicago Is on duty aboard an ammunition ship just commissioned; he's been in the Navy since February, 1944. and has eight months overseas duty In the ETO to his credit. 
Word comes from. Mexico that C. Glyna IVaser, Inter-American Relationships Director for the Boy Scouts, of Anierica for the past two years. Is finishing up his South American Scout Leaders Training and Study Project after a unique and significant assignment which bad him In touch with 32 adult youth leaders in 16 different Latin American Republics for ten­weelc training courses. Beginning Sept. 1, Glynn goes with The John Price Jones Corp.. 
N. Y. C. as public relations director. First assignment will be under Bishop Hurley. Miami. Fla. He'd like to hear from-the gang. 
A letter from T/4 Ed Pbilfcia on the islsmd of Luzon: 
"Viaee Simian's father is still in the in­surance business and Tince seems to be doing very nicely in a real estate development pro­ject. He is doing especially well since the Americans came as he is leasing them a lot 
34 
of property for warehouses. He said they lost very heavily in the damage of the war. }Te had spent two years in the Army and now has two brothers in it. He misses iiis Amer­ican cigarettes and most of all some good old American beer. I am going to spend a few days with him and we are going to look up some of tlie N. D. boys he knows. 
"One of the biggest treats I have had since I came to the Army came about the other night, VTe were having a talk on the Jap soldier by someone that knows. It was given by none other than tlie now famous Frank Mnrphj' of the Sixth Rangers. It was like old times for many hours into the night. He said it was a real treat to find someone who wanted to talk about something other than war. . . . His principal worrj* now is getting home and seeing his wife and daugliter, whom he has never seen. He said he thinks he has about 98 points as he has been over Iiere about two years. I too can sympathize with him as I have just completed my 34tli.*' 
lA. Cmdr. John Conley, of Baltimore, has received the praise of his admiral as a result of a message from President Truman com­mending tlie Navy's work in providing news reports to the USS Augusta during the trip and from the Berlin conference. Rear Admiral 
H. B. Miller, USN, director of public informa­tion, Xavy Department, forwarded the Presi­dent's message to John because of his. part in the preparation of the reports. He added his personal commendation. John joined the Navj- in August, 1941, with the rank of lieu­tenant (jg). He was public relations oflicer at the Norfolk, Va., Naval Air Station, later being sent to Baltimore to take charge of a Fifth Naval district branch public relations office. In November, 1944, he was made acting press officer in the Navy Department's Office of Public Relations, and shortly afterward he was given full status in the position. 
Hike Wiedl, who is married to Agnes Sobatzke. St. Mary's. A.B. '32. A.M. *33. is secretary of the Atlanta Chapter of American Society of Metals. 
193 5 ^''^i^Uyn C. Hochreiter, 2118 I W^9 Treasure St., New Orleans, La. 
From John Holahan in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.: 
"I met Vaa ClilT in VTashington on the 13th of July. He told me that he had just been discharged as a lieutenant from the Na^*y after four years service. He expects to take a position in aviation with the government which will send him on a tour of duty in foreign countries." 
lA. (sg) Chariie Blaher of Saltna. Kansas, was a campus visitor late in August- . . . Father Tom Hcnritt, C.S.C., chaplain, delivered the keynote address at the opening of the first Catholic mission for servicemen on Luzon. 
The twentieth annual Educational Conference of the Brothers of Holy Cross was held at the University of Notre Dante this summer. Brother Edmimd, C.S.C., '35, professor of the classics and history at the University, pre­sided, and gave a paper on "The Bright Pupil." The other side of the picture, "The Dull Pupil," was presented by Brother Qoentin, C.S.C., '36, of Vincentian Institute, Albany, N. 
T. Brother John Baptist, C.S.C.* '33. who is completing his studies for a Ph.D. degree at Fordham University, N. Y., was elected presi­dent of the Conference for a triennial term. 
Barney Enclish is a gunnerj* oflicer aboard an LCI in the Pacific as per the reports of 
M. Jim Caw1«r, '40. John Gainfr's father wrote that John -was convalescing in Italy after being badly wounded in action. 
193 & JoMph F. MansSeld, 34 Fifth 
•'** * St., Pelbam. N. Y. 
From Joe Mawrtrtd; 
The letters have been on the scarce side of late, but a few of the lads have found time in their busy schedules to drop a word or two this way. John Horan, "Or Faithful" in the keeping-in-touch department, "was. at his last writing, in the Pacific. He is skippering an armed guard crew. John was in New Tork last winter after an extended tour of duty in European waters. 
Some few weeks later, we received letters from John and my brother-in-law. Bob Bohr­bach* '32, telling us that they had met in the Admiralty Islands. Bob has been stationed there for the past year and a half as supply officer. John's ship put into port and he and Bob had a real Notre Dame reunion. Later. Bob was in an Australian port on business and who should he bump into again but Moran. Needless to say, the second reunion was a humdinger. Bob is due back in the States any day now for re-assignment, and re-acquaint ance with his lovely wife, Jeanne. They were married just a few hours before Bob left the States. 
John I>esmond sent a letter telling of his experiences in Africa, Italy and England. He Is still in London, attached to the intelligence branch. £aii Brown is now in New York, stationed at King's Point. Sporting a couple of stripes as an officer in tlie Merchant Marine Earl will be head coach of the King's Point football squad. Earl has a very nice schedule lined up with games with Harvard and Boston College. 
While on the subject of coaching, we might point out that Ed Crotty is doing a fine job as line mentor at Brown and head coach of basketball at Providence College. Ed reports that the Brown prospects look pretty good for '45. 
We spent some happy hours witli Basil "Jerrj'" Gillespie when he was stationed here­abouts. Jerrj' is in armed guard and at the moment is based at Guam. Witli hostilities at an end, he hopes to get home to his wife and brand new daughter. 
Buddy Goldman when last heard from was holding down a job In radio at KTEM in Temple, Texas. Bud was in the army for three years and elected to make radio a career wiien he received his discharge. 
Occasionally we meet Joe Condon^ '34, in the vicinity of Radio City. Joe Is witli the F.B.I, and has had some very interesting assignments in the Eastern area-
Tom l*roctor is now working as legal counsel with the Hazeltine Electronic outfit, with headquarters on Long island. Tom and Audrey. the lovely Mrs. Proctor, and their son are living in Manhattan. As is to be expected of Tom, he Is well on the road to success. One of these days he'll find himself a D.A. or a governor. 
•\Ve were pleasantly surprised a few weeks ago when Jack Murphy dropped into the office. Jack is a surgeon on one of Uncle Sam's cruisers and was aboard when his vessel made up part of the Presidential entourage at Yalta. One of these days we'll ask Jack to write a full account of the proceedings for the 'Alum­nus.' As we are writing tlie column, a note comes from Jack saying that he expects to make this port around the 18th and asks that we get togetlier. Maybe he'll start his "mem­oirs" right away. 
That's all for this issue. With the war ended, we hope the men of the class will have more time to write us news of themselves which we can pass along. 
Lt. Frank Dunn of Jollet. 111., recently com­pleted his 25th air mission in 15 months over­seas duty as air combat intelligence officer with the Navy's search and reconnaissance unit . in the Pacific foovard area. Frank's wife and two children are residing in Joliet where he practised law. 
Father Heno' Heintskill, C.S.C., chaplain, has been with the same carrier since her commissioning and participated in four major invasions, both in Europe and. in the Pacific . . . southern France, Luzon, Iwo Jinia and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Okinawa. Father has won the right to wear all four campaign ribbons of this war. including the newest, the Philippines Liberation ribbon. 
Johnny Hoban is now a lieutenant com­mander in the Navy stationed in the Pacific. He writes he recently encountered lit. <ic) Joe Zwen, '37. out there. 
. Homer Strickler, his wife and two daughters. visited his mother in Roseland, near South Bend. Homer, whose home is New Y'ork City, formerly war editor for the "New York Sun," was to leave to represent his paper on a tour of European capitals. Paul farmer, discharged from the Navy, has started with the Mitchell, McKeown Organization (advertising, sales pro­motion, public relations) in Chicago. Way back in July we received a letter from Tom Golden in which he mentioned having met 
I.t. Georse Mariorty on an island in the Pacific. 
I't. (sc) Vernon Tctmalt of Springfield, Mass., was married in Liverpool, England, on May 20, 1944 to Joan Lyon of London, England, daughter of Dr. John Lyon and it was recently reported that Vernon is the proud father of a beautiful daughter, named Linda Eileen. Lt. (Jr> Andy Pitney and Lt. Joe Schmidt of the Army had a surprise get-together at Camp Lee recently when the Norfolk Air Station baseball team, of which Andy was player-manager, visited the Army post for a ball game. 
1937 ^'•^ J' Reilly. MacNair-Dor­' ''* ' Und Co., 254 W. 31st St., New York City 
From Frank Reilly: 
Just before sitting down to write tlxis piece, I received a telephone call from my Park­chester neighbor. Tom Hniches, who relayed a fairly full portion of the doings of some of our classmates. Tom. incidentally, has been very helpful to me on this job, and for my money, would make a top-flight reporter on anybody's newspaper. He had heard from Joe ScUIUnr, of the Navy, recently and Joe, who is currently taking a demobilization course at Great Lakes Naval Training Station, told of seeing Bill Ijynch, '37, there. Joe rooms with another of our more Illustrious classmates, Wally Dromliart. Joe's course, apparently, is intended to fit him as an instructor or coun­sellor to naval dischargees. 
JmiA Baker, '37. whom I mistakenly thought was in the Army, is back at his former post at Stern Brothers department store. New York. In relaying that bit of news to me, Tom Hughes mentioned that Jack ha^ been with the F.B.I. I knew Jack's brother. Dick, '36. was an Army man. and I was under the impression Jack was too. 
A news Item about Tom Hashes: He recently Joined the newly-formed paper products di­vision of Continental Can Co.. New York, after being with Crown Can Co., New York, for about four years. Another job-switch I heard about recently was that of Faol Sbeedy, who left the F.B.L. here in New York, to return to Buffalo, his home town, where he joined an advertising agency. 
While on the subject of the Bureau, Bob WcaTcr and John O'Mjtauy, both '37. and I had lunch together one day in August. Both boys are N. D. law school products, and are among about a third of their law class that are in the F.B,I. John Vickcrs, '37, being another. Bob Weaver was transferred to New York a few weeks before we had lunch. After gradu­ating from law school and passing his Ohio bar exam. Bob put up his shingle in his home town of Coshocton. O., and practised there until the war. He went into the F.B.I, at about that time and has been In various oflSces of the Bureau throughout the country since. J«lm OXeaiT went to his home town of Chi­cago, snbseauent to being graduated from N. 
D. law school. He took his bar exams in IlIinoiB and passed them. From Chicago he went to Catholic U.. in Washington, where he spent a year studying for his master's degree-This was a short step over to the legislative 

department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, also in Washington. John's next move was into the Federal Bureau of In­vestigation. He has been there since. 
Naturally, when you get together with a couple of class-mates you haven't seen since the fateful day, there are a number of familiar names bandied about. Such, for example, as that of Charlie Meyers, the Elgin, III., boy who did so handsomely scholastically in his undergraduate and law school work at N. D. After Cliarlie left N. D., he went to Chicago where he joined a law firm that specialized In a very unusual type of law. He did very well at it, and when the head of the business went into the army, Charlie took a very good position with another prominent Chicago law firm. The name of Joe I^oftas came up at the lunch. John having mentioned that Joe was a naval lieutenant, 1 believe. John said he had met Joe some time ago. Other items picked up at luncheon that come under the heading of background information, rather than news, are: Martin Uusansr's completion of N. D. law school and practice of the same in Denver; and Joe Crisantrs and John Vic-ker's graduation from the same institution; Pet« Johncn's successful operation of a string of Chicago bistros and Ned Joyce becoming a 
C. S. C.—following our five-year reunion In 1942. 
Another neighbor of mine. Murk I^onerxan. of *37. furnishes a bit of news by the fact that he was recently transferred from Bainbridge Naval Training Station, Bainbridge, ild., to a New York pier address. 
From the mall more of the details on Jim Gocnier's wedding came through when he wrote to Father Oonan F. Ke|ly> • OJ*.M.. who. in turn, forwarded the letter to me. Jim writes: "The wedding took place as scheduled (near St. Gcrmaine-en-Laye, June 16) and I managed to struggle through with a *Oul' in my 'Canuck brogue* .. . I am now teaching my wife how French should be spoken. It's terrible all the mistakes these Frenchmen make. There are lots of words that linguists like me can't understand. It was quite an affair, quite un­like a 'hitching* in the States. Firstly, we had to be married by the town mayor. That was followed by a tying of the knot by the pastor of Madame's parisli. Tlie ceremony took placa in a typical small town about 15 miles from Paris and the whole town was there. After a very Impressive nuptial Mass the bride and groom stood at the gate of the altar rail while everyone in the church lined up to kiss the bride on both cheeks. Some must have lined up two or three times as I thought they would never stop coming by. After that we had a terrific meal where the children recited something they had learned for the occasion and the older folks sang in­dividually. Then there was dancing until 
4:00 a-m. 
"Our honeymoon was spent at Vonvray, famous for Its wines. , . . Don't know when I'll be coming home, but it does not look as though it will be soon. Hope you will keep in touch with me as I want to drop in when we hit New York-'* 
Another very welcome ^and totally unexpected letter came through Sept. 13 from Ginvd Edward Besancmey, Lieutenant, U.S.N.R., Lido Beach. ABATU. Long Island, N. Y. That would he none other than our friend and class­mate Jerry Besanceney. once of Newark. O. Jerry writes: ". . . Last May, I celebrated three years in service. On May 9, 1942, I was out to Notre Dame for my first five-year class reunion and Just nine days later I reported there for navy indoctrination as an ensign. Out of that class of some 1.100 officers, I think there were 25 to 30 that had formerly gone to Notre Dame. Since then I've served as a staff communications officer for the Commander Destroyers Atlantic Fleet, went to Hecognition School for two months at Ohio State, incident­ally, my home town was and is Colunibus, O., and at present I am teaching, or rather was teaching Recognition at the Advance Base Assembly TVainlng Unit. Lido Beach. long Island, N. Y. 
"While at this last command, I ran Into four other Navy men that formerly went to Notre Dame. None of the group, however, was out of the class of '37, except myself. They were: Specialist's Aid, First class, Charies Freeman, '35; Chief Specialist*s Aid Joha Hiler, '40; £ns. John Truccy, '42, now dis­charged; lA, Fori Deane, '42, and myself. We had frequent get-to-gethers during this time. 
". . . My wife and family are with me and we are staying at 177 Main St., East Rock­away, N. Y. .. . I saw last year's Army game as I suppose you did. I guess we shouldn't mention it though. Lt. Dean and I already have our tickets ordered for this fall's Army game. . . . Haven't heard from Journalist Frank Fox, '37. In a long time." 
I haven't heard from. Frank in a long time, either. Jerry, but would like to know what he's UD to. Maybe he'll write. 
Joe MacDoDold, of '36, whom I mentioned in last month's column, called to give me two pieces of news: Mrs. MacDonald presented Joe with their fourth child recently, and Joe has taken a position as assistant to the president of Bettendorf Locomotive Works, Bettendorf, la., near Davenport. Last month. I inadvert­ently referred to Art Shaushnessy's war cor­respondent cousin as John MacDonald. His name really is John McDermott. 
It occurs to me that with such a sizeable number of 1937 graduates in the New York area and with more coming in about the time of the Army game, some sort of get-to-gether or local reunion might be in order. If you favor the Idea drop me a card, write a letter or call me up and we'll see If something can't be arranged. 
Just before mailing this piece. I checked with Paul Foley's wife and she told me that Paul got back to the States on Sept. 7. Since then, and up until a few weeks from, this writing, he expects to be with the Office of War Information In New York. "I plan to talk with Paul in the next day or two and perhaps, even, have a get-to-gether in the near future. One of us will tell you about it after it happens. 
Capt. BUI Bailey has heen awarded the Silver Star for gallantry In action on Luzon. Bill aided in saving the lives of two w^ounded men by administering emergency treatment and acting as litter bearer. SfSft, Johnny Mulligan of Lake Village. Ark., Is in the Phil­ippines with an Army postal unit, being shipped directly from France (Marseilles in June—Luzon in July). 
From Major Luke Xleman: 
"I thought that I had written to you back in April to tell you that our second child had arrived, a girl whom we named Terese Rose­marj-. She was born on the 4th of April. Our son. Tommy, is now over two'years .old and should be ready for Notre Dame by 1961. . ."'. I have had three other Notre Dame men work­ing with me for the past year and you prob­ably remember them; Capt. Fd SHrby, '36. lA. Jf>e Kaley, '35. and Lt. Herb Anderson, ex. '32. .. . I will undoubtedly get a chance to see you this fall as I intend to get down to South Bend for several of the games. After three years of duty with the Marine Corps, I have­succeedcd in securing my release to inactive duty which will be effective on the 25th of September and I am returning with my family to Chicago that day." 
One of the outstanding war heroes among Notre Dame graduates. FiiAher I^anfc Sami^ Sim has taken over a new assignment as Cath­olic chaplain at Camp Grant. 111.. Father Frank, served as a paratroop chaplain with the famed 101st division which participated in airborne invasions of Normandy and Holland. Captured three times by the enemy, he was interned by the Germans near New Brandenburg, and spent five months In confinement prior to his libera­tion by Russian forces shortly before V-E day. The DSC and the presidential unit citation with oak leaf cluster are his for his heroic work. 
From New Delhi, India, came the release that X4 niAer has attained a captaincy. Over­seas nine months. Ed's first Job in the India-Burma theater saw him on the convoy which blazed the trail over the new Stilwell Road to China, helping to make arrangements for the largest gronp of war correspondents ever to cover a story in the Par Eastern war. He was also given the Job of writing the history of the northern area combat command in Bur­ma and interviewed Lord Louis Mountbatten. 
C^^. Wnd M«4t» flight surgeon, was reported seen at Atsngi in the Philippines. 
193 8 Huold A. Waiiams, 4323 Mar­
• ^^'^ bUhaU RA. Baltimore, Md. 
Set. Hal Williaaa, whose consistently 
excellent work for the class over the past 
seven years has distinguished h!m as one of 
the Alumni Association's top class secretaries, 'left his Baltimore post—and civilian clothes —on Sept. 15 to be reassigned by the Army at Ft- Meade, Md. 
IQ view of the uncertainty of Hal's location for the next good many months, he asked Swed0 Baaer to take over his '38 duties tem­porarily. And Swede generously consented. 
From Hal WllUavs: 
The boys, evidently, are still celebratmg. so . there is not much news to pass along for this issue. 
Kns. Bad Sherwood is now on Okinawa, in charge- of a Navy officer's wine mess. . . . (His address is: S.C.. U.S.N.R.. Cub 17, D 12 No. 32, Navy 3256, c/o FPO, San Francisco.). . . . S/Sst. £d Bartaett is now attached to public relations and is stationed in Paris. (His address Is: ASN 3240S039. FRO, Hq. TSFET (REAR), APO" No. 887. c/o PM., New York.). . . . £as. Jack Zcfbst, at latest reports, is radar officer aboard the Wake Island, which is soon to be decommissioned. . . . 
M you boys write to the class secretaries . there will be more next issue. 
From Swede Baoer: 
"I feel honored to have been asked to do this Job and will do my best to passion to mi pooley and Jim ArmfltxonK all communi­ques received from you men, without Inject­ing any of my Good Thunder-lsh editoriallz* ing. 
I saw Charicar Bomnki^ South Bend police­man, playing center field with the South Bend Hoosler Beers last week. He looks as supple as when he was captaining the 1938 Notre Dame team. 
Met Charlcgr 0«ke the early part of the year at church. Charley is an airways traffic mana­ger for the CAA and had been stationed in Cicero (Chicago is a suburb thereof). Iceland, Labrador, and the Azores. His mother told me later that he had Just been transferred to Newfoundland. She. also said that brother KonMUi Dake» *34, was a navy lieutenant on a P.T. boat stationed in the Philippines. 
Joe Wt^xim, he from Punxsutawney, Pa., has written me several kindly letters recently, which proves that a good wife, as well as musiCf can tame .. . etc. Joe roomed with me during our sophomore year, the year of the big anow. In North Amerit^L's coldest spot, namely, fourth floor Badin. That was the year we didn't send our laundry out for weeks be­cause, in an effort to stop the blizzard from blowing the covers off our beds, we wet it all and threw it against the craclEs around the windows, where it promptly froze solid. Hal WmiaMs, :NiA laMWrto, Tam CSII^M, (IMher) Joe Kacc^ Johaar Beer, Jehaar Mttr, Toaa Bahea, Jenqr Kaae, Joe Kahaxich, and others who lived up there then will veri^ that historic freeze. Joe Wehrle is managing his father's mill in Punxsutawney. and is very 
sure that his son, Joe Jr., will manhandle my son Pat when they meet at X. D. around 1960. 
Ut. Tom Bohen just dropped me a card that he was heading out on the Pacific. Tom par­ticipated In the last battles in Germany, going-over in January and coming back in June. He spent a 30-day furlough with his wife and two children. Pat (ricia) and Mike in St. Paul hefore leaving for Japan. 
While in Chicago last summer I ran into Bocco Honteflna, brief case in hand, who was just coming from court. Rocco is helping his father run his extensive truck line. The same day I called Ed Mann's mother and found out that he was an officer in the N'a\-j' in the Pacific. 
JA. Jack Simon of the Xa\-j' is cruising around the Philippines, according to a letter received yesterday from his father, Louis P. Simon, president of the Bermingham & Pros­ser Paper Co, of Kalamazoo. Midi. Jack has enough points to be released and hopes to be laack to Ivalamazoo with his wife and child­ren around Februarj- next. Tlie same letter mentioned that Jack's roomy at X. D., Phi! Shields^ Is stationed at Camp Lewis, near Seattle. Phil and wife Mary give as their latest address 1125 State St.. Olympia, Wash. 
I have heard of several other Xotre Dame men who originally came from LaPorte. Ernie lAnois, '37, is now married and has a four months old son. He Is Allis Clialmers works accountant at its Milwaukee Super-charger plant. His address is S31 W. 'Wisconsin Ave.. Milwaukee. Capt. Frank lAnigan who roomed with Ernie In Sorin Sub our senior year has been in the army four and one-half years. Frank is in the 11th Airborne In Luzon doing in the field arUlIerj-. 
Howard Mnrdock, '37. is working at the Kingsbury Ordnance Plant just south of here, and lives just two blocks from us with his wife and daughter. 
Bm\ Victor P. Froehne of our class is min­ister of tlie St. Paul's Evangelical Church here in LaPorte and plans to send his two sons to Notre Dame in a few more years. Rev. Froehne commuted between X. D. and LaPorte and received his degree in English in 193S. He Is a leading member of the La Porte Ministerial Asociation and is well respected "by all people here in La Porte. 
EVanklin Strand is another La Portean who commuted to X. D. Franklin runs an in­surance and real estate business here. 
That, men, is all the news I could ferret out on this short notice, please let's hear from you right away so that In the next issue we can have a better visit. Remember, don't forget "Swede." 
This letter Is from JA, Art Mulhern, CSXR, FPO, N. T. C.. written sometime in August: "There are a few Xotre Dame men liere where I am. I^, <Jp) Chock Schwartz, '34. brother of John, is here. He tells me Ens. John is in the Pacific on an AK. U. Bill Blind, of '34. is here. Chuck Is in communications. Bill is a 'legal' man. Saw in 'Stars and Stripes' that Wult Hocan, Jr.. '40. Lt.. AUS, was playing golf In the ETO championship and was considered a leading contender. JA. Ed Browcr was here on a ship but has since departed for Uncle Sugar's shores, and he had just returned from 
a. 30-day leave. My brother. Jim, was at last report in England—he is a first lieutenant, navigator in the airforce 94th bomb group. 'Stars and Stripes' says that group is part of the occupational air force. I hear now and then from Kis. Ban Cochran, he is on a de­stroyer somewhere in the Pacific, collecting a great deal of action very rapidly." 
Bob MoIIcn of Cincinnati, O., Is still in Ger­many ferreting out Nazi secrets for the Xa\-y Intelligence. Ut, Tiick Lamberto dropped in at the Alumni Ofi5ce on his way to Cincinnati. ^'*'- Joe Zwers is an executive and communica­tions officer aboard an LCT with the seventh amphibious force in the Philippines. Pat McCarty, for several years coach of Central Catholic High Schol team in his home town of Toledo, O., is now In the Army and is^was stationed at Camp Atterbury, Ind. 
Marine Snd lA, Joe Bnetz, South Bend, was selected to serve as a Hellcat fighter pilot in an all-Marine aircraft carrier group after train­ing at the Marine Corps Air Station, Santa Barbara, Calif. Set. Frank Zintak of Chicago is/was with a photomapping company of the 64Sth engineers In Manila. Frank was In serv­ice before Pearl Harbor and has seen duty all the way from the Alcan Highway to Aus­tralia and the Philippines- Lt. Col. Jim Beny has been assigned as station air inspector at Hendricks Field. Florida. For his tour of com­bat in the ETO as a pilot, Jim has the DFC with two oak leaf clusters, the Air Medal with four clusters and a Presidential unit citation. He was graduated from West Point in 1940, following two years at Xotre Dame. 
Bill Robinson is a Chicago FBI agent. Chuck Brotiius has donned khaki and was In training at Camp Blanding, Florida. 
George PetrStz has finished his IBM train­ing, and is now in the Boston office. He's out of the Xavy, but just made lieutenant com­mander as of some time In June. £d Ma^ tin^Iy, assigned to a troop transport operating out of San Francisco, was promoted to captain and Gene Vaslett received his promotion to major with the Xinth Air Force service com­mand. In Germany. 
193 9 ^''^^^'^^ ^ * DeCouney, 1321 Georgia, Kansas City, Kaas. 
"Willie awaiting shipment to the states, 8ct­Pete Kepetti of Xewark. X. J., is enrolled in courses in French language and civilization at the Sorbonne, Uni\'ersity of Paris. He's been overseas since last September and participated in the central Europe. Rhineland and northern France campaigns. Ci^t. IVed Slmoa who served 30 months overseas as a company com­mander was awaiting reassignment at Miami Beach. Fla. Lt. £arl Brown, who coached at Harvard. Brown and Dartmouth, was named head football coach at the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, X. Y. After serving in the African and Italian campaigns, 1st Sgt. John Focke of Dayton, O., has arrived home from Italy. 
Two promotions have been reported for '39 men: Jim Rocap of Indianapolis was recently promoted to captain with the 62nd troop car­rier group in Italy and* Leon Lancaster to the rank of captain with the Office of Dependency Benefits In Boston. 
TONELLI IS RELKASED 
Sgt. Murio "Motts" Tonelli, '39, who survived tlie *'niarcli of dratb*' un Ba­tnan for ag^ht days and the brotal treatment accorded American prisoners for three and one half 3-ears, was found in a Japanciie prison camp near ITokk:^ ichi And on the LSV which remoTed liim from Japan were two Notre Dame baseball Ktars of recent 3-ears, Tom Sheehan and Bob Klein. Tom. re­ported to tile University that Motts was **Iookln|tr fine" and "feeling- pretty irood" deepite his loss of weight, from 200 to 135 pounds. By the time yoa read this Motts will probably be at home in Chicago. 

Ph.M. Ai Kiefer was home and enjoying a rehabilitation leave last September, at the same time announcing his engagement to Margaret Barthle of San Antonio, Fla. FMII Kelley, former Army major, is with the Stan­dard Transformer Corp., 1500 N. Halstead St.. Chicago. (Lt.) Hogh Garrey is with the Henry Holt Publishing Co., in New York City. Tom O'Dea of Toungstown, O., an engineer with Curtiss-Wrlght in Columbus, O., played a prominent part In designing the Navy's new Seahawk scout observation plane which saw service against the Japs. 
JJt, Cmdr. Joe Corcoran of Brldgcwater, Mass., has been based at Samar in the Phil­ippines and expects to get home for 30 days sometime within the next three or four months. 
194 0 C*P'- Robert G. Sanford, 3934. N. 
•^^ ^ Maryland Are., Milwaukee, Wit. 
lit. OK) Don Briscoll ser^'ing as executive officer aboard a PT boat played havoc with four Japanese barges off the west coast of Leyte last March. After several runs all four barges were left either burning or completely under water. Home on leave from the Ninth Army in Europe, Capt, B«iiiy Sheridan then reported to Camp Atterburj- with the expecta­tion of transfer to the Pacific. 
T/S«t. Clyde Archer of Parkersburg, VT. Va.. has returned to the states with the Purple Heart, the combat Infantryman badge and the European campaign ribbon with two battle stars. Av.MJI. 2jc Tom McCabe of Spring­field, L. I., N. T., who ser\*ed as maintenance man while attached to the fighter-bomber squadron of Air Group 17, has returned on leave from a tour of duty In the Pacific. 
Faol Gloss is assistant to the chief of the tool department of Douglas Aircraft. Los Angeles—there are 25,000 employees in this department throughout the countrj-. Paul is a leading figure in the N. D. Club of Los Angeles. T/Sgt. Jim McCabe, radio operator In a Liberator bomber, completed his 100th mission in the southwest Pacific. Jim whose home Is In Johnson City, N. Y., flew over such targets as Formosa, Indo-Chlna. China coast ports and Borneo. Capt. Jim Plummer is trans­portation officer in Belle Mead, N. J.; and lit. Oed StnbUnst his former Sorin roommate, is on the admiral's stafC at San Diego, Calif. 
Lt. Wally Borer, Navy flier who has been re­ported missing in action in the Pacific, has been awarded the DFC for heroism as pilot of a torpedo plane. His wife and two cliildren are residing In Florrisant, Mo. 
Ci^it. Henry Dowd's letter m.entioned m,any Notre Dame men in India: Capt. Bill Banm, . '41. Lt. BiU Billon, '36, Bob Cmickshank, Lt. 
Jim McNamaia, and Ray Sadlier. 
John BrodberKer has received his honorable discharge from the Army and is living and working in Cincinnati lA, Bill Fay Is editor of the Honolulu edition of "Stars and Stripes." Joe Saitta» ex-corporal, is coaching at Central Catholic High School in Fort Wayne, Ind. Lt. £ d Wortzebacb, USNR, after extended service in the Atlantic and the Pacific, was home to South Bend on leave. He reported to Great Lakes where he expected to receive a discharge. Capt. Jim Barrett visited the office before reporting back to his air base in Harvard, Nebr., last September. 
From Rock LePage to Bob Sanford: 
"Just a few words to let you know I've been discharged frot^ the Army. Returned from the European Theatre last June after being with the office of strategic services for over a year. 
"In March was awarded the Croix de Guerre by the French Government. Nicest part about that is that it boosted my point score from 84-to 89—right past the critical 85." 
Jean is now working for the National City Bank of New Tork, and his address is 30 Oakley Ave., Summit, N. J. 
Bob Sanford, still in Manila, is now a cap­tain. He met Major John Cella, '39, in Manila. 
Bic* Fallon writes from St. Joseph's Semi­nary in Dunwoodie, Yonkers, N. T., that he will be ordained to the priesthood on Dec 1 in St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York, and his first solemn Mass wll be on Dec. 2 in 
Holy Family Church, New Rochelle. N. Y. He adds: "Since it will be impossible to send in­vitations to all the fellows, I ask now that any who are in New Yorlc be with me." 
From MsUor Joe Halqaecn, USHCR, to Bob Sanford: 
"Am located at the Marine headquarters here in San Francisco, having been back from overseas 14 months plus. Housing shortage in this area forced me to buy a home in order that wife, Peggie, and the two gizmos could have a place to come in out of the fog. 
"In Wilson's Restaurant, Palo Alto, Army's Lt. fVank Bioiri backslappcd me with a 'I haven't seen you since graduation' and pro­ceeded to introduce Peggie and me to his brand-new wife. Frank is studying Japanese at Stan­ford and coupling this with a communication course. Several weeks before this, I spied FBI's fVank Bright riding past this pedestrian in downtown San Francisco. He stopped and we made like long-lost brothers-in-law and agreed to have lunch together at Fisherman's "Wharf some Friday. There, I learned that he was married to a Seattle girl and that diapers are already a big part of Monday's wash. He tells me that Dick Swisher is also around these parts spreading the good word about Notre Dame. 
"I^. Hert> Imuran, '3S. is publishing the Marine Corps' Chevron at the ilarine Corps Base in San Diego. Herb received a leg wound on Saipan that's taking its time healing. He passed on the following news about the Denver 'Mob.* 3Iajor Tom Ticmey is flapping his wings around one of the Texas air stations after a siege of it out Pacific way. Tom married one of Herb's sisters two years ago. Chuck Casudy was last corresponded with from Italy where he's wearing wings on his chest and eagles on his shoulders. Stateside — returned Marine Capt. Tom Bafry, '40. now commands two ration books and so far as is known Is -still in the States with his bride. 
"Big Jim Donoghue was a well-beribboned Marine captain when I saw him at the Carls­bad Hotel in Oceanside. Calif., some months ago. He was fresh back from four campaigns In the South Pacific and much aglow In intro­ductions of a new wife. 
CENNI ALL O. K. 

It is with keen joy and due apol­ogies to Lt. (Ig) Lou Cenni that we announce that Lou was not killed in the Pociiic as was mistakenly re­ported in the August "Alumnus." A recent letter from his parents said . . . "having recently returned from Okinawa; where he served as a Navy doctor with the military gov­ernment, Lou is feeling fine and at present is at Worcester, Mass., with his wife, Kathleen." 
"It's been a long time since many of the '40 class have heard of or from Bob McEnjry. Having corresponded with him for a period of eight or nine years, it might be interesting to know that Bob is going into his ninth year in the Jesuit order and is teaching classes in Latin, debate and elocution in the St. Louis University High School. 
"Marty Resan writes that he's exec on a destroyer-escort and still destroying around the South Pacific, having already spent about three out of tlie last four years in those waters. Jock Rcddy ups and gets married some six or eight months ago but failed to notify this draft board—wish he'd give the particulars. Frank Miltiwr was plugging away at CKZS some months ago but no word since that time. Indirect word says Jeny O'Dowd is skipper of a salty LCI and is steering It around oriental waters. 
**Majors But> Uackmtui and Gcorce HaCKOty are spending this summer on the Harvard cam­pus after having spent the last two on Guadal­canal and Guam. They are attending a Navy Communication School there. 
"What's the latest from BUI Coleinan, J«e Ryan, Tom Browninr and Ri^ Allen? 
"Xow that this War is finally reaching a closing point, I hope many of us can get to­gether on that promised five-year Reunion now rapidly extending Into its sixth year. How about it Bob? 
Sgt. Clarence T. (Fete) Sheehnn, transferred from Hendricks Field, Fla.. to Reception Sta­tion No. 2, Ft. Dix, N. J., writes: 
"Met Jock Rcddy in the mess hall after I came to Dix. Jack Is a counselor in the separa­tion center here. Had two re-unions with Bud Bernard in New York. My unofficial roommate in Badin Hall, Bud is now at the Brooklyn Na\-y yard. Pianl Daly* the real roomie, is a personnel oflicer at North Camp Hood. Texas. 
''Bins: Binkowski, '39, for a long tour in the South Pacific, was the star right fielder on the Deland NTS. Fla.. officer's softball team. Ho says Matt Bolger Is there with him. Blng saw Ed Broscoe in California. Ed was getting ready to sail," 
1941 ^^ ^'^^^ ^' Patterson* Jr.. 5S30 Darlington Rd., PitUhnrgh, Pa. 
From Roland Belladonna, Capt., USMCR, in the Pacific to Jack Patterson: 
"Thought I would let you know that Pm still alive and looking forward to our class reunion come next spring. I hate to think what will happen when our bunch gets to­gether again. I recall our freshman year when we almost wrecked the trolley after the Notre Dame-Army game. (I get dizzy when anyone mentioned Army to mc). Shall we try to be more beliaved on our next cruise. 
"See I^ither Dupois occasionally and Just can't help recalling our days together In Fresh­man Hall. Saw Bob Sagsaa last year at a Naval Air Station, hiding behind a bottle of beer. Of course l moved in behind it with him and we talked over old times. Also ran across Will Gacan, he is with the Amph: Tracks. Naturally we talked about Notre Dame in addition to bragging about the Marine Corps. "We didn't have to say much about last year's Army-N. D. game for everyone reminded us of it. 
"Ever hear from Don Smarinsky, Dan 0rod­erick or Chuck McGannon? Don wrote me while he was stationed in Maryland over three years ago; however I haven't heard from him since. Robert Wardell is another birdman who has never written. George Thompson writes occasionally and I am always glad to hear from him. Haven't seen him since we were both in North Carolina, 
"I saw Leo Uillelrand only a short while be­fore he was killed at Iwo. It certainly Is a shame that such an expensive price must be paid. I remember all of our Notre Dame men in my prayers. 
"Good luck and may God keep us all." 
Jim Lang, with the FBI in San Francisco, is living there with his wife and son. James, Jr. T/Sct. BUI Xem, a Detroit boy, has been awarded the Bronze Star Medal and received a direct appointment as second lieutenant on the island of Mindanao. Sgt, Gerty Kunm, '44, was also awarded the Bronze Star as per a letter from brother Elmer Kainm, -who also writes of another brother. Set. Wllber Kamm, '40, who was at Marseille. France. 
Lt. (jg) Eddie Riska was wounded in action while fighting with the Pacific fleet in Japa­nese waters according to word received by his wife, who lives in South Bend. 14. Bob €••» navigator of a Navy search plane, returned to the V. 3. for leave and reassignment after completing eight and one-halt montbs daty in the Pacific 
The distinction of being the first officer to report aboard his "tin can" belongs to I<t. AnMM AltsMB of South Bend. In March. 1943. he helped place her into conunisalon, and since that time he has sailed well over 225,000 miles and has participated in almost every major engagement from Wake Island to Okinawa.. 
Capt. ViisU TWi Meter received his promo­tion at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Mary­land. 9/Sct. nmak McOooon^ of Chlcaco. was awarded the Bronze Star Medal for bla outstanding military services in the ETO. 'And we have another Bronze Star Medalist. He is Cimt. Bad PosUaao who won bis for bia work daring the German flying bomb attack on the port of Antwerp. 
JoliK O^IiOflstaliii was program chairman and toastmaster at the Junior Association of Com­merce luncheon, given in the Sherman Hotel, Chicago, for the All-Star football players and their coaches on Aug. 23. John is still with Illinois Bell. Snd 14. Jerry Ryaq of Susque­hanna, Pa., was appointed assistant aircraft maintenance officer at the Columbus Army Air Field, O. John larsMi'a new Job is with American Airlines, Inc., in New York, as news and features editor in the department of public information. He had been in publicity with the American Broadcasting Co., for two and a half years. 
1st I,t. FWd Goddeld, South Bend, had 14 water color sketches on display in Rockefeller Plaza in an engineering-art exhibit. The sketches were made nine months before In New Guinea. 
The parents of 14. Ug) Chudk received a cablegram from him recently an­nouncing his liberation from a Japanese prison camp. A Navy flyer, he was captured after being shot down over Tarawa Sept. 18, 1943. 
Ch«ek FarrcU, another former prisoner of war. In Germany,has returned to the United States. 
NAVY CROSS TO O'DOWD Til* "Harf Cross was awaidsd 
U. Imome I. ODowd, '41* Fort 
cour­age of ill* lughest sort aa com­tnondei oa a gunboat supporting raconnaiasoneo of. landing bosoa two doya bofora Ui* invoaien of Iwo EBO . Jent'a oroft waa on* of 12 gnnboata oaaignad to ih* mis­
•ion: aaren of tho group oponad Sra on tha baaehas. The anamy tatomad tha fira. Iiitting four of tha aUpa in 10 ndnutaa. 
194 2 ^1 ^ WUlUm E. Scanlon. Post GyirnasiniB, Ft. Sheridan, lU. 
From Scoop Scaaloa: 
This must be Moving Time for most of the *42crs because the Mail Call the past few- weeks has been surprisingly slaclcened. Come on. let's keep the ball curving and throw In a couple of strikes. 
Somebody else -vrants to know what you and TOU are doln^. 
I«iCfa SalUnu of Ft. Sheridan dashed br the other day, halting only ions enonsli to report that he was headed for the Information and Edacation Office. Seems he's setting th . 
groundwork now for a career in the diplomatic service in the future. 
And it's now 1st S«ft. Bill Murphy, also of Ft. Sheridan. Big Bill heads the staff of 70 or more enlisted men who handle the supply department of the Separation Center. Any of you fellows doffine the khaki at Ft. Sheridan look him up . . . maybe he'll see you get a good fit on the final pair of slacks. 
It was V-J night when I happened into ex­

I.t. Bob Flanncry. back from Paris and a recent dischargee from the army. He was awaiting time to re-enter Notre Dame by working in Chicago. 
Mrs. Lonergan of nearby "Wilmette reports that her son Red, is enjoying Colorado life. Wonder if Jes"e Sutherland will appoint him a member of the state's Chamber of Commerce. Red's most recent address was Stead's Ranch. Estes Park, Colo. 
WAC Anita Schilling of Ft. Sheridan said the other day she had heard from T|5 M.S. Edmonds formerly of Notre Dame. And he reported Paris was a dream town, especially after visiting Ft. Bragg, England, and various parts of western France. 
One of oiir most faithful war-time corre­spondents, JA, Ed Baeni:er, comes through with another V-mail, dated 5 August from Ansback. Germany. Let Eddie tell you: 
"Perhaps I'm a little premature in address­ing you as Mr. when you may not even have immediate hopes of being discharged [Boy, are you correct!] and becoming a civilian once again. I am now a bona fide member of the 1st U. S. Infantrj- Division. As such, I am a part of the Army of Occupation and am rapidly becoming rehabilitated to a finer gar­rison-like manner of living. At present I'm situated in a fine little town that is typically European and quaint in its ancient structures, mode of dress, and long established customs. Many of the officers and men from my old outfit made the change of units with me, so I don't feel as if I'm too much of a stranger in my new surroundings. 
"I have recently acquired a very beautiful German shepherd police dog that is rapidly oecoming a fine companion to me. Please remember me to any members of the class of *42 that you may contact," 
lit. Chet Sallivui, third base star and hitting ace of Ft. Sheridan teams in our early era, paused here lately long enough to look me 
•up and say hello. 
An excellent letter from ¥Ved Fuulmann, Jr., of Mt. Vernon. N. T.: he writes: 
"Quite a few of the N. D. boys have been around here lately, and I thought you might pass the word to the fellows via the 'Alumnus.' 
"'I was married on June 16 to Cecilia Dono­hue, of New Rochelle, and it was a real Notre Dame wedding. 1st I*t. Walter Brennan, '41, 
•was my best man, and three of the four ushers were Notre Dame fellows: Jock Malone. '42, made the trip all the way from Toledo to be one; Chariey Conner came up from Brooklyn, and Ramon AnmSo, '42, stayed over on his visit from Colombia to help me out. I've a picture which I'll send to you as soon as possible. 1st iJt. Thomas J. Trueman. *41, was to have been another usher but he had to return to Denver for surgical treatment before the wedding. 
"Had a get-together recently with the above fellows and also Doc I>ising of the Army, I*, (iff) Eanl lillis who is stationed in New York for a while, tt . (« ) Bob KcFlarland, who Just left for Panama last week, and Clem Hodey, '42, who is in the advertising business here. Also had a grand re-union with lit. (jg> Ed Hiackett, who came down one weekend from his station in Rhode Island. I*t. (jg) Johaay Bisesm phoned the other day that he Is back In the States after two years overseas, and that he is up at M.I.T. for a few courses. Saw a lot of Byron Kanaley until recently when he moved from this city back to Chicago." 
Tou can get the latest news on the Lawyers from Mrs. Lora Lashbrook's usual fine contribu­tion. 
The big news now everywhere, of course, is of the boys who are coming home or who are already back from the war. Among the highlights in this categorj- was the news that our Marine hero, Lt. Joseph Barr, is back and is being married on Sept. 25 in ^lissouri. The bride is ilary Lou Dahm of Normandy, Mo., and formerly of St. Mary's, Joe, you will remember, was the "cover boy" on the April, 1944, 'Alumnus' and the "Scholastic" of April 19. 1944. 
Others who have indicated that they expect release from military duty soon are MiMor Robert £. Suilivan, who is still in Europe but expects to be home soon. JA. William A> Hosittsid, still in Texas but whose discharge may not be too long In coming, and Joe I^avriy, already discharged and ready to practice law in Connecticut. 
A letter came from Ut. (ir) Gerard Feeney of the U. S, S. Hulbert in the Pacific, who re­ports that he has no prospects of discharge unless the Navy's point system is revised. Like the others, he is wishing that some such change would be made so that he could get his legal education finished. 
I-t- <jg) James F. 3IcVay sent his applica­tion for admission to the Pennsylvania Bar after telephoning from Seattle giving us in­structions as to the material we were to furnish for that purpose. He had been home on another short leave but is now headed for the Japanese area again on the President Jackson. 
John Baty finally wrote from his ship in the Pacific assuring us that he had survived the war so far, but he also regretted that he lacked the required number of points for discharge. John has been admitted to the Missouri Bar so will be all ready to receive clients when he gets out of the Na\-j', where he is a lieutenant, 
as). 
Jerrj- O'Dowd wrote that he had been on the California coast and had seen Dick Swisher and his wife and baby in that state. Dick seems to be doing fine and liking life on the 
•n'est coast. 
lA. Jordan Hamd wrote from his station In the deep south where he is serving with the Air Corps, that he had had a visit from Bob Richardson of the F.B.I, in South Caro­lina. This week Jordan w^as In for a visit during a few days with his wife's parents, the Hosinski's, of South Bend. Jordan is even more handsome than we remembered him. He tells us that as soon as he is discharged he will go back to his work In the bank in Chicago. He likes the polished desk and the freedom from the worrj- of building up a law practice. 
Capt. At Cbolis wrote a nice letter from Frankfort, Germany, where he is serving with the Military Government. He promised to look up Gerry Kamm, who is stationed In the same area with the same outfit. They had not seen each other when letters arrived from each of them giving us the same address and de­scribing the work in identical words, so we immediately sent instructions to look each other up, which instruction has now been carried out. Neither liad much hope of getting home in the near future. 
Another bit of good news reaches our desk in the form of an announcement of the open­ing of a new law firm in Chicago at 109 
W. Monroe St., with one of the partners, J«hn 
J. Ward, Jr. 'While we have had no additional news, we can assume John is out of uniform and that Mrs. Ward and the son are enjoying civilian life with John in the neighborhood of Chicago. 
• 1.00 Unck wrote from Sheppard Field, Texas, where he is serving with the Air Coriw. He was through South Bend a few days ago but all the visiting I had with him was a few minutes over the telephone from the Union Station. He also hopes for an early discharge and a return to his law practice In Michigan. 
Bill Spansler is still in India with the Army Air Forces- He should have almost enough points for discharge, although no word has come from him in the last few weeks—in fact not since the end of the war. 
Jim Daner was in for a visit not long ago. He will probably be discharged now from his service with the Air Corps and will return to practice. He looked -wonderful and w*as en­thusiastic about the prospects of his post-war 
•work. He has a special interest In the field of aviation law, which happens to be a special­ty of ours right now. 
Jim Diver, home for 30 days from Europe where he has served with the 104th, the famous Timberwolves, caught up on his sleeping but didn't get up for a visit. He was enroute to the Pacific -when the war ended but we are not sure whether or not he has actually gone that direction. 
Ted Firericks wrote that he has had several nice offers to go Into law firms, all the way from Florida to Minnesota, but thinks he will accept a place In an Ohio firm since lie passed the Ohio examinations and is now ready to practice. Ted w*as all set to take the bar exams on the first days of Januar>* when he was called into service on Dec. 31 after he finished law school. After a tour of duty with the Navy on the U. S. S. Bogue, he was given a medical discharge several months ago. 
Hairy Andevson was discharged from the Army several months ago after suffering the loss of his wife, who died while Henrj* was still In the Army. 
John Spcca wrote for the necessary docu­mentary material to make him eligible for some graduate study at the University of Michigan in the field of law. He will enter there this month. 
Bill Syrinc sent a postcard from Ireland where he was enjoying a 30-day leave from his duties in Germany and he reports the Irish relatives very much to his liking. 
A letter from the Illinois Bar examiners tells us that Fete Alonxi Is being considered for the October class. The material has gone in from here and this may be some evidence that Pete will soon be a civilian again. He has been out with the Pacific fleet for some months now. 
We had a nice surprise this week, too. In a visit from the father of Lt. Bob Sinon, USMCTR. He says Bob is on Guam and he has no Idea when he may be home but he hopes ver>* soon. Bob's wife and baby are in Ottawa, III., wait­ing for Bob to get home-
John Terdonk paid us a visit right in the middle of this report. He is In "civies," look­ing fine, and Is now Investigating the several possibilities of entering the practice of law, after more than, two years service in the Army and having earned the rank of captain several months ago. 
That's all for now. In the meantime don't forget: 
IP IT'S NEWS. WRITE SCOOP! 

I^- Off) John Noda, St Augustine, Fla., for the past seven months executive officer of a Coast Guard amphibious control vessel, returned to the states after 19 consecutive months of sea duty. He participated In seven invasions during that time, including the assaults on the Marshall Islands, Marianas. Admiralties, Palau, Philippines. Iwo Jima and Okinawa. He was aboard the Coast Guard vessel during the latter two operations. 
John Rcilly is now an ex-G. I. on the basis of 115 points- It was In July that John left the Army. TjSgt, Cliff Brosey writes from Manila that he recently ran across JJt, Jack Boach, ex. '25, who was a halfback on the Pour Horsemen team of 1924. 
1st 14. Dan Hilsartner, M.A.C., ivho was in North Africa and Prance for two years with the 46th General Hospital, was sent direct from France to the Pacific area with the 35th 
Station Hospital unit of the Medical Corps. Nick Gnlyassy has completed his first year at Iioyola Medical School. Chicago, and is well into the second year. Brother Vic Is with an ordnance company In Manila. 
Lt. Chuck McXeill, long with the armed guard in the Pacific, visited South Bend, his home, and Notre Dame In July. His assignment then was Treasure Island. San Francisco. 
Marine Cpl. Charles Buttcrworth, South Bend, since Corregidor a prisoner of the Japanese, was liberated from the Omeri camp near Yoka­hama. Mrs. Butterworth who hasn't seen her son for seven years planned to go to the coast to meet him. 
194 3 ^^ ^J^^ Edward C. Roney, 
• 1723 Iroquois Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
From Ed R«ne>-: 
October is rolling around fast and In another two months most of us will have our "fogys" as alumni. Three years is a long time, but . I believe we've stuck together about as well as any class ever has under the circumstances of a war. It'll be our job now to stick to­gether just as closely for the rest of our lives. "With the war over we should be able to get together oftener, and we'll hold some of those bull sessions as only '43 can do. 
It might be well, while we're all thinking of getting out of uniform and back into civilian life, to remember those of our classmates whom we've lost these last three years. They were not as lucky as we, and, while we'll surely have a Mass for them at our class re­union, a few prayers now and then would be a good way to thank them for our good times together and the sacrifice they've made. 
Not any terrific amount of news this month, but I have managed to pick up a little here and there. At the moment I'm the only naval ofiicer who ever got his request for duty and am the guy behind the guys in the radio shack at NAS, Grosse He. Mich. Being here, I found out Jim Byrne came home for a 30­day leave a couple of days ago and had this news: Jim saw fVed Gore in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and says he's off his LST as he'd hoped and .expects to see his wife any day now. Bill Higher was down there also and will be married to Peggy Hiordan of New York on Oct. 25. 
He's also heard from Joe Ulllebrand, who's on the USS Charger, and Jack Gilliinui who came home and got married some time back. Jack was on the Emmons and was transferred off three weeks before the ship and its entire crew were lost to a Kamikaze. Byrne reports to Great Lakes for further assignment early in October and hopes to see some of the Chicago crowd home when he gets there. 
£ d Hickey Is also home on leave, from the USS President Adams. I've held this up two days now trying to contact him, but haven't had any success. 
At Great Lakes I saw Julin O'Jialley, not too much the worse for w^ear for his "months as a German prisoner." He wouldn't say much except to deny Gene Fetdi^'s report that he's getting out. He's going Into demobilization work instead. He said Jim Focan was in Germany last he'd heard, and Dick Kelly work­ing for the Army at some large firm. Or maybe It was the other way around. 
It makes me very happy to get one up on Scoop Soudan and be able to report that Ed Ha^^ies of his class is here at the NAS in a very good Job. He's exec of one of the units here. 
Ed Fervason gets into Detroit as often as he can get a plane to fly this w^ay from Glen­vlew. III. Haven't seen him as yet but will eventually. 
A few days after I got here I dropped into the chaplain's office to meet the new Catholic chaplain. We were both surprised, and happily, because^ It turned out to be our rector of oar sophomore year, father Dapois. Since then we've had some old time bull sessions to­gether and I've found out these rectors never do forget many of their gangs. And for Morrill and Maloney, I want to report that he knew everj'thing all the time. At least almost everything. Father had been with the Fourth Marine division before coming here and would really have some stories to tell if he'd talk. 
Jim Byrne also said, as did Helen Healy. that Bill Moorehead was finally heading stateside from Germany. He's been over some time. Got a letter from J. J. Becker the other day and he reports his ship traded a case of beer for a jeep a short time back. So they now put it ashore and ride around all the islands they get to. 
To Kalph Carabiisi the classes condolences on the death of his father. He'll also be re­membered In our prayers. 
The other night a WAVE at dinner noticed my ring and asked what class at N. D.? She turned out to be the very nice sister of Pat Bradley. Said she'd get after Pat to write in what news he has. 
That's about all for this column so I'll close with a reminder that we could use some letters and that the class is trying for a 100 per cent representation in the Alumni Fund this year. How- about giving your all toward both? 
T/4 Bob Towner has been awarded the Bronze Star for meritorious service with the 101st Airborne outfit. He writes that he expects to be home soon with a discharge—and his recent English bride. Ut. (jr> VInce Jerry of West Chazy, N. T., completed 14 months duty aboard the carrier Essex in the Pacific. As aircraft arming officer, he particip.-.ted In the occupations of the Marianas, Palaus, the Philippines Islands, Iwo Jima and Okinawa and saw many strikes launched at the enemy along the China coast, the Jap home island of Kyushu and at Tokyo. For meritorious service in connection with military operations against the enemy on Okinawa, Cpl. Chariea Wade was awarded the Bronze Star medal and the Purple Heart. 
1st I.t. Bob Bauchman Is stationed at the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D. 
C. His brother. Wait, ex. '44. will be gradu­ated from West Point next spring. Pat FEsbrr, '3fi, who foresees no immediate prospects of his becoming a civilian, writes that his brother, Paul, was in Italy, and Pat enclosed copies of a few of Paul's letters describing the wonders of ancient Pompeii, the beauty of the church of Santa ilaria De Rosario and his audience with the Pope. 
This in a letter written by Tommj- Atkin», FPO, San Francisco: ". . . . Only a few days previously my dad had sent out the letter from Father O'Donnell of August which spoke of the Adoration Chapel. And then behind the artist's sketch on the cover [of the April 'Alumnus'] I saw why. It was like reading the obituary of a Sunday newspaper, but worse, for nearly every name held a memory of happy days, of youthful camaradarie, and many of them names of close friends." 
Bob Nenno is a naval medical student at Loyola Medical School, Chicago. TMU Rymkiu, star tackle of the Washington Redskins In 1943, has signed to play with the Cleveland Browns of the All-America Football conference. Lou, a seaman, first class. Is now at Notre Dame as a physical ed instructor for the Navy. 
I't> UK) Joe Uillebrand who has sailed on the same ship In the Atlantic for 26 months has seen Fred Keler on a mln^-sweeper and Vic Kmmel, '34, on an LST. Gino Bacd. '45, (NROTC) is on Joe's ship. 
Capt. Bill Eorley awarded the DFC and the Silver Star while ser\-ing as a fighter pilot with the 15th air force in Italy, has been discharged and Is football coach at Parkersburg Junior High in his home town of Parkersburg, W-Va. Two days before the surrender of Ger­many, Bill flew his final mission over Berlin. He~ was badly shot up on one mission and received the Purple Heart. 
1944 ^'^ ^^^ ^ Lynch, 15724 
GruiaviU* Rd., Detroit 23, Mich. 
From Johmmr Ii^vck: 
V-J Day and recent reasslgnments from the European theatre have brought in more than the usual number of letters, but first we'll have to clear up some that came in shortly after the last deadline. The first is an airmail from John .lahat, a Lt. (j.g.) on the 0.S.S. Catskill. 
"We hit.San Francisco for a few days in June, but it was a stay that lasted just long enough for us to get a tang of the good old States and then shove off. I had hoped for a leave of some sort, but my luck wasn't work­ing, so the telephone wns the nearest I got to home. Haybe I'll get home in the next four or five months and we can go out again just like old times. 
"While In 'Frisco I ran into JUn McTax* '42, who was going on a short leave, and then we bumped Into each other yesterday while I was on shore patrol duty in this port. He .said that he had been back to N.D. Ed Hickey Is on the ship that is berthed next to us. As yet we haven't gotten together, bat tomorrow's the day, I hope. He's boat group commander on the President Adams (APA 19), a dam fine ship. Jim ^vrke, '44, is supposed to be flying Army transports in this area, but finding him Is like looking for a needle In a haystack. Tinee Bnaemn was at Okinawa on his LST 558, but I haven't seen him since last August In Honolulu. Who knows but what Jim Byise might end up out here If the war lasts long enough! He's had duty In Fort Lauderdale so long that he probably considers Florida his native state. 
"Jade HBfflws wrote the other day. and he's still slaving away at a career with W. T. Grant and Co., in Rockford, III. As you probably know. Bob Usher Is around Okinawa on PGM 32. Bill Binet and IMTTT Bans are on the same ship, the AKA 25—Circe, and :ii'e tied up in small boats. I saw both of them in Honolulu not long ago. Jim Meagher, '44. is on the AKA 56—Arnak, and I saw hlm In the St. Francis Hotel in 'Frisco just after he had come back from a leave. He's engaged to a St. Mary's girl. While on Iwo Jima I met a fellow from N.D. by the name of J^u> Loock. He's from Indianapolis and was In *45. He came back to Pearl Harbor with ua un the Storm King. And that's the works on the N.D. men that I have run into. 
"I am still doing the same old routine, watcher, gunnery and divisional work." 
One of the ships going Into Tokyo Bay for the surrender treatment was the T7S5 Perkins, on which Jim ChanHincham shipped out - of Norfolk early In July. Jim wrote this at that time: 
"We're only a few days out of Norfolk, a dark night and the sea Jumping upon us. This old boat can really ride a storm rough. 
"I first heard you were back in the States when I visited N.D. late last month after we came In from our first cruise. [My letters to Jim were following him through Texas and Cuba.—J.L.] I saw Jim Anafftronc* BiV DoBOTMi and all the gang around publications, and had a talk with F^aok <KMaller while riding the DUS. 
"I enjoyed your up to the minute dope In the 'Alumnus.' Two of our other officers are ex. N.D. men—Bob Cnmley, ex. *45, and iMm 'Jbn* ,IiYiBcstoa, ex. *33. Crowlej- and I got together with Tex FMinisiier while in Galves­ton In April and had a good old time. Ran into Una. J«e Gmccty, '45, and lift. BKUce Oamcr­ftiHU '43. while in Cuba. Joe is on a PC and Mike has a shore Job. I tried to talk HSkB out of 45 pairs of shoes for our ship, bnt he only let me have 15. "Walt till I catch him out of cigarettes in the Pacific While at N.D. I ran into Na\-y Med Student Brock I-ynch, around to pick up a degree, and Bill Boberts. Bill is an RT in the Navy. They were both In Catholic Action with me. 
"There are plenty of chances for CA work on this ship. I'm holding services on Sunday for my division, and put out a daily one page newspaper w^hich goes along with the daily press news. 
"By the way, heard that Chuck Patterson was awarded the Silver Star for his bombing work over Manila Bay." 
Phil ClailEe came through with a letter in late July, from Denver. The address is 732 Fillmore St. 
"I received the June Issue of the 'Alumnus,* a publication that had completely evaded me previously. It was great to get news about so many of the fellows, hut shocking to learn of the deaths of so many of them. I hope to receive each Issue from now on, as I learned when in St. Louis last month that Tm eligible for a 'war-time degree' from N.D., and then will be a real alumnus myself. 
"As you may remember, I left N.D. in December of '42 after completing three years of pre-med. I entered the University of Colo­rado School of Medicine in March of '43, am now in my senior year, am a member of the V-12 unit, and shall receive my M.D. degree come March of '46. I have been accepted for Internship at the St. Louis University group of hospitals. But prior to that I'll get my 
B.S. from N.D. In October when the next con­vocation Is held. 

"Haven't heard from too many of the boys lately. Bod Kahn was stationed In Oakland in May, but I'm sure he's at sea by this time, and probably a j.g. now. Paul Marietta was stationed in Phoenix the last I heard- Another ex-roomie, Miark de BCots, was in Europe a long time and should be back In the States soon, if he's not already here. [See "Deaths," this Issue for tragic news of Mark—Eds.] Pat Toklavich is doing fine at Tale Aled. School. I saw Chuck Umela up at Boulder about a month ago. He's studying Japanese In the language school at Colorado University. Bob Kohl Is home on a two weeks vacation from Cleveland where he's engaged in aeronautical engineering. Had a good golf game with him and 'Ihisty' BTSIH who spent one year at N. D. In our class, and is in the final years of his studies for the priesthood. Bob Dee was In Denver last month; his family has now moved to Sioux City. He flew some fifty-odd missions over Germany and is now up for discharge." 
Ensign John Hick^*, of the South Bend BUckeys, sent along some late July news from Pearl Harbor, the station through which many an N.D. man passes. 
"Right now I have as a roommate a boy who was a grad of the class of '40 in aero­nautical engineering, Hank Bohl. and a pretty swell roomie he is. I could really give out with the info about a lot of the boys, 'but I'd best just mention having seen them to avoid the censor censuring. My neighbor, Kay BiHte, is still on his tour and having quite a time of it. One day the South Benders had quite a gathering with my neighbor Bill Con­nors, Barncx Tornock, '43 (that red-headed cousin), and also Joe GaU» '44, and Jack Morniy, '43. Joe and I were able to make quite a few liberties together In lonely Hono­lulu. 
"As has been mentioned in previous Issues of the 'Altminus,' old roomie from V-12, Rebel Stnmpfy was through here for a visit, and I have seen Bob Fuisht, Bill Talbot, Johnnie 3Coore, Balph Vinccffu^ra, Jim Bmtz, Tony Maloney and Bill Kerr. Saw John O'Bourke before! he went home on his ship to get married, and Tnn Sh^worth and John Herlihy, '45. Then there came big 'T* Brennan and John Ptfnoe. Dick Doermer was through here a short while ago Just fresh from his resort dls-
Ens. WilUcan T. L. White, USNB, '44, Somervxlle, MOSSM who received the NOTT <md Marine Medal for hii heroic rescue of two Marines from drowning dtmng the amphibious assault on Peleliu Island in October, 1944. To sure the men. Bill jumped into o heavy sea without a life jacket Two days later he sufiered a ^in ­al fracture when a Jap mine exploded on contact with the anchor chain of the LCT on which he was serving. He has since been recuperating in naval hosintals. 
bursing duty in California, and beaminc for other reasons which we'll let him announce. John Toole, *46. and brother Ted, of the class that was originally ours, were both through here. There have been numerous others whom I have seen at the N.D. club meetings In this area, but I've mentioned only those I've seen outside of that gathering. Another South Bender, BUI Carroll, '46, was In my room a couple of evenings hashing over the local situa­tion. 
"Had some very fine visits with Coa ^ Leahy whlle he was here, and also saw Joe McAxdle, his line coach before going Into the Navy. Joe Miller, '42, law class, and also of South Bend, ran into me in Honolulu, so we went out to visit the coach that day. 
"One day on liberty as I was walking out onto Waikikl Beach I looked up to find Bob CahiU of the Athletic Dept. heading for the showers. He was to leave the next day for the States. Jack Wiethoff, *43, is still in the area and did himself well in the recent track meet here by vaulting 13 feet to beat his record of last year by one foot. Jade Foelia, Owen Kane and Jf^nny O'Connor, all *38 and of my brother Don's class, were around for awhile, and I had dinner one evening with Gene Hoore and Walt LaBerge, both of *45. 
"My Job is in supply here on the station in the storage of damaged aeronautical material awaiting repair for subsequent reissue. It has been very interesting work and lots of activi­ty going on. I've been playing some baseball with the station team over there on the first sack, a little bit of outfielding and sometimes even a bit of picking up some splinters, too, all a part of the —game, eh, Mr. Kline. There Is plenty of pow^er on the team and a few of those boyb will be up in the majors one of these days. In a few of the games l<0e Rhymkus was the 'tmip' and you may be sure that there were no arguments. One day before our regular season opened up a team came over to play us and there was their coach standing by me—our 'Biz* Law prof. Gay Mellicfaad—and his hoya went out and whipped us good. Carl I«oyd, '47, was In his outfit, too. 
"J. P. keeps the candle out for the boys coming through here. So long for now. and let the boys know that the welcome sign is always out here at the Pearl Harbor air station." 
Notre Dame's casualty lists lost two names from the missing column when Herb Clark and Jim Ijuidgren reported in safely after V-B Day. Both of them wrote on the 13th of August. This is from Herb. 
"Jxist received my August copy of the 'Alum­nus.' It's the first time I've ever been home to get hold of one when it was new stuff. I was glad to read some of the news about the fellows, but the parts about Steve CBoaike, Tdm Creevy, Jerry Qninn and a few others kind of takes all the Joy out of it. The news on Mox Roftfs was welcome becatise I went to high school as well as N. D. with him. 
"I've been back in the States about two and a half months, and at present am in the middle of a great 90-day furlough. The reason for that being that I was a PW In the Father­land and am still assigned to a convalescent hospital at Ft. Custer. 
"Since I've been home I have received letters from my old roommate £ d Alterdorf In West Bend. Wis., Jack O'Connell with the Navy in Georgia, and Trma Brinknuui at Camp Fannin, Texas. Also had a visit from Paul CConnell who is working for the government In Rochester. N. Y. Little Vic DeSimon came through a lot of tough fighting with the 80th division in the BTO and is now waiting his turn to come home. When I went over i was pretty lucky to be with three classmates. Bob McBiide, Warren Ijtmry, Hike Zorovich and I were all in the same regiment of the 106th when we were cleaned up in the Bulge. I knew Warren and Boh had been captured, but never heard about Mike until I read your column this issue. While we were on the boat going over we bumped into Andy HcKlroy who was in the 87th division. 
"I am being married the 25th of this month, and two of the fellows who will help hold me up are John Tan Bentcn and Bill Snyder. I hope to get down to school before I get orders to go back. It looks right now as if it won't be too long before we'll all be meeting down there some day." 
Jim iModtrtn writes: 

"Received a copy of the 'Alumnus' the other day. read your news^ and thought I'd drop you a line. I noticed that I'm still listed as missing In action, so It might be a good Idea to clear that up. I spent a couple of months In a German hospital In Leipzig, and after being bombed out went to Stalag 4B. It was quite a surprise to read that Duke Leery spent some time there. i certainly would have liked to have bumped into him. 
"Joe Bod, Bill Kenny, and Bill Gninn were ail in my outfit, and all came through o.k. rve heard from Kenny quite frequently, and they're passing the time In Germany teach­ing classes while waiting for a boat. My old roomie, Jim Ooostantin, is also teaching In the old country, I suppose you know that he won the Silver Star. While In Camp Luckj' Strike at Le Havre, I ran across SVed Funk sweating out an egg-nog line. He left the next day, so we didn't have a chance to get together. 
"I've got another three weeks before I report to Miami Beach to reach out for that dis­charge. After that I plan to return to school for a law course. Became engaged the other day to Doris Dubee of Michigan, so I've got to setUe down and make up for a lot of lost time." 
A V-J Day letter came from Bd <^hman who Is holding down a typewriter on Luzon in the Philippines now. after sweating out the backwoods of Guadalcanal for many months. 
"This morning- we Just heard the oflSclal word that Japan had surrendered, so you can ffuess at how we all feel over here. Ever since last Friday, when the first hint of their ffiving^ in came over the radio, we've been in a state of suspense. My biggest problem right now is when ril ever get home. Tin in my 21st ^ month over in these Jungles, yet I have only* 40 points. But if I have enough to keep me out of the occupation force I can stand sweat-Ing out a return home. I would like to count on visiting the campus of N. B. before too long, maybe even to start in school again by the fall of '46. 
**UarTy Yeates and I are still together in the same outfit, though I'm in one of the companies now instead of Hq. We finally got off Guadalcanal after 16 long months of Jungle* monastic life, and are now on Luzon in the Philippines. "We haven't been here long and are Just setting up camp. But it was here that we met the first fellow from our class —^BUl Schroeder from New York, majored in philosophy, a great friend of Jack Woelfle's. We had a swell visit with him, but then we moved way up the island from him and have not seen him since. He's an MP with the 29th Repl. Depot and seems to like It a lot. Then Yeates met Bave McLaocfalin who is a lieutenant. I missed him, and Harry said he talked with him only a few minutes. Then at Church one Sunday I met the Godfrey broth­ers. Hike and Jim, who were in the class ahead of us at N. D. They are also from Peoria, so you can see we had lots to talk about. They're close by us now and I hope to see them again soon. I understand Jim Coogan is stationed around Manila somewhere, but I haven't been able to locate him. It took U3 20 months in the Pacific to come across fellows from our class, though I know lots of them are out this way. 
"Have you heard anything about Gerrj* O'Beilly, the Brooklyn boy ? Would surely like to hear some word from or about him. We hear regularly from Geor»e Barisciilo who is carrying on in Leyte and evidently operat­ing in a big way for Special Service. Bill Schroeder plans to return to school and so does Testes, so I think lots of the boys will be cashing In on the GI Bill of Rights. Well, at least we'll plan to meet at N. D. every once in a while for a game and a good old reunion." 
"Black John'* _Marpl>y has come through with two letters again. At their writing he was still at Gushing General Hospital, Fram­ingham. Mass., sweating out a discharge. This is Aug. 7. 
**£arl £nglert wrote back in June, and I replied only yesterday. Word from £ns. Ed 'Blooper* DowJUnr tells that he has been made the skipper of his LCI 29. Had a hasty V-mail from T/5 Bob McAnllffe, and he had Just landed on Tinian with the 307th General Hospi­tal. Tom O'Connor, £niie Scdlmayr and Mox Rogers are all headed out of the 88th division for the U.S. Forces In Austria (USPA). Bay O'Conn^ has been transferred to some special service deal. Some chicken those poor occupa­tion boys must put up with. They are really sore, and one can't blame them. Xo word on Jim Uoyd, so I wrote his wife at their old address. Also no word on Bill O'Brien or *lted John* Mnzpliy. 
"I'm still bucking for a discharge here. I hope I've had my last operation, and I hope to get out soon so I can return to school and also get married. Am enclosing pictures of Mox and Ray and also one of 'Black John* taken at McGulre General In Richmond." 
Here goes Horpf again; September 2. 
"Good to hear Jim Landcren and Herb Clark were freed. I was sweating them out all right. But what's this about Clark getting himself captured again? Did he marry any­one we know? Latest word from Skipper Ed Dowlii« is that he met Joe Gall at long last. Also Bill O'ConiKn'. Ed may be home soon. Jiia lioyd was on orders at Grand Isle, Nebr., when his wife presented him with a boy. 
Pfc. **Black John" Murphy. '44. swAating out a dischorgo. (See '44 news, this issue. 
Michael Stuart. I am quite happy for my old roomie. 
"I'm up for that CDD, and I've got my fingers crossed for both of us, and all the other N. D. lads. Haven't seen an 'Alumnus' latelj-, but I'll bet the column's okay." 
A'ic Colletti, back from the wars, has a first letter In the mall, from Port Arthur, Texas, the old home town. He wrote on August 20. 
"Guess it Is about time I let the 'Alumnus' know what has been happening to me since I put my books away and went off to the war. My Army travels have taken me to most of the States east of the Mississippi, and a nine-month stretch of duty in England. France. Belgium, and Germany. I was on a wire-laying team in the 273 Inf. of the Fighting 69th Division. No need to tell you that the 273 Reg. was the first outfit of the Western Allies to make contact with the Russian Army. 
"I am now at home with a 30-day furlough before I report back to Fort Sam Houston; then God knows what will happen. I have been in contact with Neil McManos in the Pacific on an LSM. Also had a letter from Lt. A. G. BUotti. At the time he wrote he was in a hospital in the Marlannas. He tells me that Charles Urdlich Is somewhere In Belg­ium. I understand little Joe Christen is a skipper of a * naval craft somewhere in the Pacific. I seem to have lost contact with Kd Cyr. I was supposed to meet him In I«ondon, but we shoved off to France a few days before we could get together. Do you know what­ever happened to Cy Desmet? Tnd Elcborn is In Fort Monmouth, N. J., and come to think of it he owes me a letter." 
Another first letter to the column is from Ens. Bon Davis in the Pacific. The date Is August 5. 
"I came across your article In the April 'Alumnus'—the first one I've seen since I've been out here. It sure is great to hear where everyone Is, but sad to read about the 'killed in actions' and 'missings.' 
"I am in a hospital in the Admiralty Islands, and had a drink or two with Ed Kedan, *44, at the Fleet Ofiicer's Club here. He is on a supply ship and has been on one out here since he got his commission at Columbia. Traiak Stompf and I have been with each other as supply officers of two respective destroyers with Task Forces 38,, and 58 for the past year. Every now and then I nin into an N. D. man. but the two I've mentioned are the only ones In our class I've seen for quite a while." 
A mmor had been started on its way that Ckaek TMtsnsa was on the casualty list. I wrote Chnck and got this answer on Aoput 27. 
"Here's a quick denial of the rumor, and I'm very happy to be able to write it. We're been out here in the Pacific for about a month, but we didn't quite make it to the most for­ward flghtins area before peace, wonderful, wonderful peace came. Our squadron is con­tiauini; to operate as usual and may do so for a while. The bir* beautiful difference Is that no one will be shooting. We've heard, too, that we are to be decommissioned. It's hard to find out the score, and when you are certain yon have it somebody drives in a couple of runs and you're back where you started.'* 
Chuck is a J.K. now, and that's his second trip out he's speaking of. He got the Silver Star on the flnt one. 
lit. Bari IHaslfiit Is still holdinc forth at the Miami Army Air Field in case any of you get down that way. Earl wrote Aug. 25. 
"In the early part of the. summer. quite a few N. B. lads were at the Naval Tralnihs Center in Miami. Among them were T^lgrr BiU Schnch, Mike JfaUoy. Hc«b CekMaa, ToBS Oartin and Dick MeCnnai^ '39 I think. We had some good bull sessions together. Hike was married on St. Fat's Day. and shipped out from Cuba on a destroyer escort. Dick went to FT school at Melville. R. I. 
"Our statistical control oflScer at the field is Oapt. Charles Sasw. '39. In the finance office until recently was Father GriauM'a brother AL He is now at ATC Ferrying Di­vision headquarters In Cincinnati. Got a nice letter from 'Black Jaini' Muvky finally. I am loolcing for John Galdaa to arrive at the AAF Redistribution Center on the beach next week. He has been on leave home since hit­ting back to the States from a POW camp. 
"Now that the war is over I aui getting a trip outside the continental limits of the U.S. Laugh! It's a 30-hour trip to NSMau on an inspection tour. Who knows but that m meet some of the gang there. Am hoping to set up to Atlanta for the Georgia Tech same, or even to South Bend for the Iowa tussle. Time and developments here will decide. And with luck I'll enroll for the summer session at N. D. next year." 
I^. Bsk Le Mease, '43, has two letters In the mall, one prior to V-J Day and one shortly after. The first is from Friedberg. Germany. 
"Had only a month on the line as a platoon leader twfore das kries ended, and now it looks like the CBI for me. But we're doe for a 30-day leave in the States on the way. I am with the famed 45th Division. Almost rear echelon now—assistant regimental .S-L But while the war was still in progress this loole had the 3rd platoon of L Co., and you know how that Is. But now things are pretty soft. Plenty of work, as I'm Regt. InvesUga­tlons Officer among other things, but I'm not kicking. 
"Haven't heard from Dan Downey in over a year now. And almost six months since Doa Hsttsel wrote. TM Wc*er finally has a Kood Job. and Tm glad for that. I hope to be home in September or October—could be we could connect at N. D. and have a good old caf bTill session." 
Bob's second letter is a V-mail from the POE at Le Havre. 
"We've been delayed so much lately that your letter only had to make the one trip across the ocean. We are currently sweatins out a boat here at the POE. I have Ugh hopes, however, of making It In time for the first N. D. game this faU. 
(He did. He was on the campus for the Illinois game—^Eds] 
"Did I teU you that I ran Into Sst. JaA DiiBsirtMi and I<t. Bek Dvn e In Ausaberff. Germany. They work together In the AG 
section ol 7th Army rear. The tliree of us had several good sessions together. They moved to Hiedberg the day I left Germany. That's about all for now. Hope we meet at X. D. at the first game—how're your chances?" 
Two additional letters have come to the column that must be mentioned. Though neither is from a Notre Dame man, they are from members of our so-called synthetic alumni. Tlie first Is from 3IIss Ruth Hurley, sister of Capt. Jack Uarley* *34, and cousin of lA. Jolm •Starchy* Bishop, ex. '44. It ex­plains itself. 
"In reading my brother's 'Alumnus' for the month of August. 1 noticed where someone was seeking information about lA. John Bishop. According to the Marine Air Corps, he was killed Nov. 20. 1944. Johnnie had been over­seas nearly a year when the tragedy occurred. He had enrolled as an air cadet in '42, planned on beinga naval filer. Instead he was com­missioned a Marine Lt. in a Marine Recon­naissance Group, and sent overseas late In "43. He had expected to come home for Christ­mas '44 and to see the Notre Dame-Great Lakes game last year. However, a few weeks before this happy expected event he was sent out on a mission from whicli he never re­turned. The Marine Corps reports that about the time his plane disappeared one was seen to crash into the water. They searched for a few days, meanwhile declaring Johnnie 'missing In action.* When no trace was found they declared him dead." 
Lt. Joe Cusick, Holy Cross, '36, brother of fVank Cosick writes as follows: 

"I see by the August 'Alumnus' that you were inquiring about Frank Cusick. Frank Is a lieutenant in the Army Air Force and was shot down over Germany, Jan. 2, 1945. He is still in a missing status and we, at home here, are all hoping and praying for his safe return. He was a navigator on a B-X7 and would have completed his missions around Feb. 1, of this year. He had recently received another cluster to his Air 3)Iedal, but was only interested In the war getting over, so he could get back to bis loved ones and once more return to the campus of Notre Dame." 
Through the kindness of the administration and medical GHQ's at Camp Pickett's Hospi­tal your columnist has been able to secure two furloughs in as many months. The first took me home, Detroit, and to Notre Dame. The Na^-j' still looked like full speed ahead as they marched to classes and to chow, but with the W'AA'ES and the dozens of other secre­taries who have Invaded the campus, N. D. has taken on a co-educational appearance. Sorln Hall still stands as the pipefitters night­mare, but Brownson Hall has been divided and subdivided by the bureaucrats of the Main Building until it is no longer recognizable. 
Under the Dome I saw such familiar faces as Bill Dooley, to whose judgment this copy will soon be submitted, lathers Charles Carey and John Lane, who share adjacent ofiices, in the one-time stronghold of Brownson, with a bevy of nice young women secretaries, and Bob McAnlilTe and Bdward It. Qujnn. who are interested in the success of student-teacher relations. 
IWhers John P. Lynch, Mllliam Cmddick, John Ryan and Charics Sheedy were In evi­dence, as were "Brots. Frank O'Mallej-, Richard SoIIIinuL and Rnfns Bauch of the English Department. Brothers Finbarr and LouLs were holding the 'Ave Maria Press' to its schedules, and Tommy Owen was still buzzing around the pining Halls. Things haven't changed too much. 
Torn Bremer, •'Beexle" YVleklinski and Gene Wolhern were trj-lng, but not ver>- hard, to hold up the reputations of the IAW School. UML Leon, of Mexico City, was visiting the campus while I was there. He is a lieutenant In the Tank Corps and was on his way to the Pacific coast for a boat ride. Bob Gantler, '45, came in from Chicago for the week-end. He waa with us In Camp Croft back In '43, but was sjon discharged and went back to N. D. to graduate. Joe Lanihan Is prefecting in Cavanaugh Hall and doing post-graduate work. Big £d Gallagher is living and working in South Bend after getting his degree. . 
My second furlough got me as far as Spar­tanburg. S.C. where I've spent some time with the James Crowleys and the Edmund P. Joyces. The Crowleys are the parents of Jim Crowley, '44, and hold open house for ND men going through town. Jim Is a corporal with a post 

-olfice unit on New Caledonia, Mrs. Crowley had heard from Jade Woelfle before I arrived. Jack is with tlie 9th Division now and was at Ober­bernbach, Germany. The Joyces are the parents of >'e<l, 37. Jack, '41, and Lyie, 44, Joyce. I saw Ned and Jack, but Lyle was busy on I«uzon in the Philippines. He is with Hq. of the 27th Repl. Bn. 
Names in the news from here, there and everywhere: 
The Detroit "News" reported Bon Trotticr, '44, Escanaba, Mich., as arriving Aug-2 at New York City aboard the Queen Mary. The "News" also reported that Lt. fVank l^r^isb* '44, and his wife Helen are now proud parents. ifc. Charlie Golden, 43, was married in Monroe, ^lich., recently. WO. Paul Bouncy, '45, stopped in Detroit on his way from the ETO .to the Pacific tbeati^. Paul is with a port engineering outfit. £ns. Larr?' Stuhl, ex. *44. and a recent Annapolis grad, stopped in Detroit on a round about way to sub school at New London, Conn. 
Joe Diljun, '4 4, Camp Croft graduate, has been In Germany with the 3SGth Inf. Elmer MilUman, *45, was with the 194th Gilder Inf. In Germany after being discharged from a hospital in England. I heard later that he had been transferred to the paratroops and had jumped at Wessen or some such place. Bide Milliman, '43, was a corporal with the M.P.*s at Caserta. Italy, after being released from the hospital with more than one bullet scar which he caught In the Gothic Line. Ens. Dave Bune5', '44, was on the USS McCalla in the Pacific and hoped to get home this fall. 
That's all for now. If you're '44, let's write a letter. 
It's good to be able to start quoting from the many letters we've received from the '44 boys. From Oahu. Hawaii, Lt. (JK) Chnck l*iUteni»on wrote to Jim Armstrong: "I know that you are well aware of the good work being done by the N. D. Club in Honolulu. A couple of weeks ago. Bill Herzug, '43, who Is VTN-55's engineering officer, and I attended a communion breakfast at the Academy of the Sacred Hearts. We were invited by club president, Tom Fallon, who Is stationed here at NAS, Barber's Point. Mass was at ten, followed by breakfast, then benediction at the srotto (much like N. D.'s) after which was held the business meeting. It was a wonder­ful day." 
From lA. (jg) Chock Cmieln, Oklahoma A & M College, written last July but neverthe­less still interesting: ". . . Jerr>' Smith, *43, 
Is In my classes, and he and his wife have a little apartment where they are at home to 
the boys. 
"Have had some more news from the sea­going Kotzics. Wonder if Jim Armstrong has gotten any of the stories which have come to me first hand? Several of the ships whose pictures have appeared in the paper of late, as victims of the Kamikaze had our boys aboard. Think I told you of the heroism of little Charlie Mbntrie at Okinawa, where he was blown from his battered destroyer, the Newcomb, into the sea, and though burned and wounded, tried to keep afloat a dying chief petty officer twice his size for several hours. Tex Crowley's destroyer was in the force which shelled outer Tokyo. Tom Shellworth was on the Sara when she took It last January. Lt, Pat Alalloy; '36. just brought a big Navy ordnance show to Tulsa as part of a War Bond drive. Think he's living at home for a few-weeks," 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
And more. Informally, from your sec. Lynch: 
.. . "I landed In Spartanburg, S. C, Sunday morning. (Aug. 29) and was royally entertained by the Joyce family (Nod, '39. Jack, '41. and Lyle) also the Crowleys (Jim. '44). They are 
'the families who entertained such stalwarts as Jack Woeiae, Jerry Qoinn, Charlie Koegeler and myself when we were little military men at Camp Croft- 3Irs. Crowiey had just heard from the Woelfie and he was in Germany with the 9th Division, having transferred from the 45th which Is coming home." 
From Ted Weber: 
"They're ballyhooing an all-star football game here on the coast for the night of Sept. 14 between the 4th and 2nd air forces. Bill Haber> Bob Greenbaigh and Early, are getting their share of publicity. I saw Huber once when his air force team played Fort Riley in the fall of '43 and they bunked In our squadron. I'm hoping I might get a chance to see him again out here, but come tlie 14th I'll be one of the mob, sitting way back and seeing Huber and all the others from a distance. 
"And before you slip me the sixty-four dollar question and ask 'when are you going to get out,* let me yell *I don't know.' The chances aren't very good, what with my measly 36 points, but If they let me finish fighting the battle of Wilmington 1*11 be happy. Even this infernal night work can't discourage me. 
**Jim Krecs^ ex- '46, and the former drum major—he of the strastopherlc tosses, to quote the 'Pome*—and my cousin graduated from Marine OCS late in June and at last word was In Rhode Island going to some sort of school. 
"The work continues to be Interesting—meet­ing returning troop ships and some of the refugees from the Philippines prison camps— and sometimes distasteful when you have to turn a guard in or throw sonieone In jail for what appears to be a minor infraction of the rules. The people who don't like MP's should remember that the MP's don't like themselves when they're on duty." 

Jerry Coleman, out of the Marines and well installed In civilian life, is working for the Treasury Department In Cleveland. Jerry has a brand new wife, and so we offer congratula­tions. 
Here's a string of honors that would do any soldier proud, and they've been awarded to Set. Jim Constantin of Chicago—the infantry­man's badge, the Silver Star for wounding eight, killing three and capturing eleven of the enemy, the French Fourreglerre, and the Presi­dential citation for action in the Colmar pocket in Alsace. Jim was located In MuhU>ack, Austria. 
Don Ueltze], on his last lap of a 30-day leave, visited the Alumni Office. He was on his way to Navy Pier. Chicago. 
Phil Meyers, South Bend, visited home and campus when he had a short vacation from the Burbank, Calif., Lockheed plant, where he Is employed as an aeronautical engineer. 
I^. (ic) John Nilles spent a leave at his home In Fargo, N. D.. after duty in the Pacific area since July. 1944. Lt. (Jg) BiU Wicks of Chi­cago was at two Jima at the beginning of the second week of the Invasion. Twice, his ship has rescued B-29 airmen who were forced to bail out of their crippled ships while return­ing from missions. 
BOB. Charlie Montrje, Monroe, Mich., re­turned to duty aboard his destroyer, the New-comb, after recovering from multiple wounds suffered when the ship was attacked by four Japanese suicide planes off Okinawa last April. 
From dtts. Jim dmnlncham^ Aug. 28: "Ran into Jim Clark, class of '44, a few weeks back in one of the ports out here. He told me about a Notre Dame Communion breakfast which had. been held the Sunday before we arrived. About 40 attended. Including Chw^ nKtt«non, who Is on his second tour of duty. 
"Met Fran Keam on his DE not so long ago. Bob (TrowteT* class of *45, who is sound officer on our ship, went through sound school with Fran so the three of us had a big old bull session- Fran got married a few months back and is praising the institution to high heaven. 
"Been putting out a daily one page memoed newspaper and with Crowley and a gunner's mate putting on Catholic services every Sunday. The men have plenty of interest in going to church. 
"My brother, Bill, class of '46, is bacic In the States from Europe with a couple of air medals and silver bars. 
"I don't figure to be out for a year. You luctsy people will be seeing the Notre Dame games soon, and we'll be out here thousands of miles away trj'Ing to hear them short wave." 
1945 and Later 
DaTid R. Condon, The Chicmco Trib­nn*, Chicago, III. ­
Al iesioei's basic training at Sheppard Field, Tex., has been completed and as of Sept. 17 he was awaiting orders to be shipped to another fleld and thence to an embarkation center for overseas duty in the occupational forces. And Bob Blorfan has started that new job with the State Department in Washlneton with an eight weeks' training course. He writes that Bob Morrissey is in the same deal and the two are living together. 
QH 3/c fim Phillips of Kane, Pa., with the Atlantic Fleet wears the American, the Euro­peaa-Afrlcan-SIiddle Eastern theater ribbons, and rtc. Ray O'Connell holds the Bronze Star Medal, the combat infantryman's badge, the good conduct medai and the Mediterranean theater ribbon with three battle participation stars. The Oak Park lad has been overseas 19 months and is now athletic technician with the 2S33rd Special Service Group in Italy. 
Pfc. Ed Sweeney, Rockville Centre. N. T., recently returned on furlough from the Italian front where he served IS months with the 88th division of the nfth Army and later with the loth Air Force. He was wounded in action in May, 1944, and again in October of that year. Norb Tzemko was furloughing from Italy also, where he was a radio operator-gunner with the AAF. Its Hindustani that Ffc. f^snlc Sbannon interprets for the Army out of San Francisco. George Schwartx, Lehigbton, Pa., has his discharge, and It . I,onis Kenbold was assigned to the 13th AAF. 
John Adams reported to the Washington 
•Redskins on Aug. 12. I,t. (jg) I*o KUer has received his discharge and is returning to Notre Dame in November, to the delight of Coach Ripley, Comie Clatt appeared in the back­fleld for the College All-Stars when they met the Green Bay Packers -Aug. 30. Cpl. I.uke Hiccins of Edgewater, N. J., won the shotput event of the Fifth .\rmy track nnals held in Milan, Italy. 
BUI Clark with the Fifth -Air Force in the Philippines completed 26 months of overseas service. Bill served in Australia, New Guinea and the Philippines. His fiance. Miss Janet Bartz, is a student at St. Mary's College. 
Ray Baddoar was the recipient of one of eight student medals awarded by the American Institute of Chemists for scholastic achieve­ment to senior students in eight mid-Western schools. Ray, who was a V-12 student, is back at Notre Dame as a midshipman. 
Capt. John O'Maiiey has been assigned to Ellington Field, Texas, after completing a combat tour as navigator over the German occupied countries. He returned with the DFC, the Air Medal with three Oak Leaf Clusters, and the Purple Heart received for wounds due to enemy action. 
A Bronze Star went to SySlct. Uerry O'Keilly. Brooklyn, for crawling tlirough intense mortar fire to string wire to a platoon pinned down by 
CpL Walter "Mox" Bogeis. '44, and Pic. Bay O'ConnelL '45. enjoying the Ital­ian countryside. 
machine-gun fire. He then directed mortar Are on the machine-gun nest and the second round landed squarely on the enemy position, killing five men, 
T/5 Otto McNanghton of Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., completed seven months overseas duty in Italy. He has the Mediterranean theater ribbon with two battle participation stars and has been awarded the combat infantryman's badge, the Purple Heart and the good conduct medal. 
I,t. Bill Mills, South Bend, is a fighter pilot with the "Flying Shark" fighter squadron of the "Flying Tigers" fighter group, of MaJ. Gen. 
C. L. Chennaulfs 14th air force in China. 
Tom Steigmeyer recently returned from a year's tour of duty in the Pacific with the Navy, during which he took part in six major battles. Bob Pallodlno, Sp. (A) 3/c, was on his way to the Pacific as a physical instructor in the Navy. Bob Hanlon is playing left half for the Jacksonville, Fla., Naval air station team this fail. He expects an early discharge and will return to Notre Dame as soon as he gets it 
Bob Griesidieck, St. Louis, who has received his honorable discharge from the AAF, writes that his twin brother. Bill, has returned to Hawaii from a special radar mission In the West Indies. Lt. Charles Ross received his commission in May and is now stationed at Camp Bianding, Fia. 
2nd I,t. Clair Harding of the 1st Marine division, was wounded on Okinawa in May, evacuated to an Army hospital on Saipan and then transferred to a naval hospital. His basic training completed at the submarine school in New London, Conn., S 8yc Don Butler of Dowagiac, Mich., was to be assigned to the undcrseas fighters. 
ARCHITEaURE HONORS Francis W. Kervick, head of the de­partment of architecture at Notre Dame, and seven graduates of the University are honored in a portfolio of ecclesiasti­cal designs published by the church prop­erty administration in Milwaukee, Wis., and received recently by the Notre Dame library. 
The portfolio, designed to present out­standing ecclesiastical designs in recent years over a general cross section of the United States, contains 130 accomplish­ments, including 18 by Notie Daipe architects. All designs are eedesiastirral buildings embracing churches, chapels, schools, hospitals, rectories and ccnvents. 
Represented are the accomplishments of 59 architects who have demonstrated their ability in the field of ecclesiastiral design, and of this number eight are architects of Notre Dame. 
Prof. Kervick,' veteran head of the Notre Dame Department of Architec­ture, was selected for the portfolio on-the basis of his designs^ for two educa­tional structures—^the Gushing Hall of Engineering on the Notre Dame campus and the St. Matthew's parish school in Mobile, Ala. 
Architectural graduates of Notre Dame who have distinguished themselves in the portfolio follow: 
Maurice Carroll, '19; Thomas Flad, '40; Paul C. Brust, '28; John J. Brust, '34; WendeU Phillips, '12; E. L. KeUy, '13; Thomas E. Cooke, '24, and P. M. O'Meara, '09. 
BROTHER LEO DIES 
Brother Leo, C.S.C, 76, retired direc­tor of the University of Notre Dame farm, died Aug. 20 in the community infirmary after a lingering illness. Brother Leo was one of the nation's leading stock breeders and cattie feed­ers and was named champion cattle feed­er of Indiana in 1937, joining represen­tatives of other states in a tour of large packing houses in Chicago, Bos­ton, Philadelphia and Washington, D. C. 
Until 1933, Brother Leo's farm sup­plied all the beef for the University dining halls. He was prominently known in Chicago livestock circles, where he did all of his buying and selling. 
Brother Leo, bom Daniel Donovan, joined the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1897 and was appointed director of the Notre Dame farms in 1900. He re­tired in 1943 because of failing health. Funeral services were conducted in Sac­red Heart Church by Rev. Joseph A. Maguire, C.S.C, celebrant. Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C., deacon, and Rev. Wil­liam P. Lennartz, C.S.C, subdeacon. Burial was in the Community cemetery. 
IN PARLIAMENT 

Christopher HoUis, English economist and author who was a member of 'Ske Notre Dame faculty from 1935 to 1939, was elected to the British parliament at the recent elections. 

Ilie, OFRCIAL & MINIATURE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME RING 
The official Notre Dame ring and miniature as manufactured exclusively by the L. G. Balfour Company shows the tower and dome of the Ad-' ministration Building heavily modeled on one shank. The ND monogram is reproduced below with crossed torches in the background, an em­blem of the ideals and attainment of Notre Dame. The opposite shank shows the seal of the University in high relief and below are crossed torches. 
The raised letters "University of Notre Dame" frame the stone, set in the oval top. 
Available this year is a miniature of the offi­cial size ring for the sweetheart or wife. This is an exact replica, 2/3 size, of the large ring and is now being manufactured to meet the great de­mand for this sweetheart style. 
Be sure to specify the ring size in ordering. 
Reverse Reverse 

Address your inquiries to the OFFICIAL RING This ring is actual size. The illustration MINIATURE RING 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE shows this massive ring which symbol­This ring is actual size. Both views 
izes the strength and dignity that is show designs on shanks of this sweet­
Notre Dame, Indiana Notre Dame. heart ring which is now available. 
•
 The Scholastic will resume full schedule •with the November semester. Several issues, including a special Commencement number, mil be pub­lished in the current semester. 

•
 The Scholastic, established in 1867 by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C., still brings the detailed campus developments, the official pronouncements of the Universitj^ and the personalities of the current student body. These of course come in much more detail than space permits in thS ALUMNUS. 

•
 But most refreshing to alumni in the Scholastic are its two major claims to graduate interest, frequency of publication and (not the least atti-ac­tive) the undergi-aduate approach. 


Address: NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC Publications Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 





