The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
GIFTS CONTINUE IN ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
page 2 
CAMPUS TODAY —a new feature page 8 John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, 
Managing edito 

Gifts Continue in 12th Annual Alumni Fund 
Faculty Development Program, Scholarships Receive Club Financial Aid 
With a few chaiimen still in the 'cleaning up' stage in their personal solicitation efforts, Notre Dame Foun­dation receipts have been, increasingly on the upgrade. As this edition goes to press more tlian 5,600 alumni have contributed $278,642, while 326 non-alumni friends have given §169,642 thus far in 1954. 
One of the outstanding features these past few montlis is the number of 
CITIES EXCEEDING AMOUNT QUOTA 
Ft. Lauderdale, Flo.—Robert H. Gore, Jr., '31, chairman. Sterling, 111.—^Joseph H. Bittorf, '33, chairman. Notre Dame, Ind.—Lawrence H. Baldinger, '31, chairman. Springfield, Mass.—Wm. A. Hur­ley, '28, chairman. Kansas City, Mo.—Richard Bow­es, '38, chairman, resigned. Buffalo, N. Y.—^Anthony W. Brick, Jr., '36, chairman. Schenectady, N. Y.—Francis M. Linehan, '45, chairman. Canton, O.—^Maurice F. Zink, '48, chairman. Oklahoma City, Okla.—]. Has­kell Askew, '31, chairman. Tulsa, Okla.—Peter J. McMahon, '45, chairman. Altoona, Pa.—Donald A. Schei­tig, '30, chairman. Oil City, Pa.—^Wm. K. Bayer, Jr., '36, chairman. 

cities exceeding their quota by amount. Twelve are presently in this classifica­tion with others edging closer to the top each week. 
Mississippi, progressing under the direction of Governor AVilliam H. Mil­ler, '30, is leading all states in percent­age of quota contributors with 68%. Odiers over the halfway mark are: Delaware, 52%; Governor Arthur A. Baum, '36; Oklahoma, 50%, Governor William Sherr>', '21; and South Caro­lina, 50%, Governor Thomas F. Arm­strong, non-alumnus friend. 

Aliunni clubs have been especially generous to the University during tiie months of May and June. Scholarship gifts are as follows: Aurora—$1,000; Buffalo —$5,000; Kentucky —$1300; Ft. Lauderdale — $500; Cincinnati — $2,000. The Ford Motor Company Scliolarship Fund gave $5,500 to Notre Dame for those students who are pres­entiy attending the University under the pro\'isions of this plan. 
The programs of Faculty Develop­ment and Distinguished Professors re­ceived financial aid from tiiese clubs: Detroit—$1400; Chicago—$500; New York —$1,000; Toledo —$250. Un­restricted club gifts have come tlirough the Women's Auxiliar)' in Buffalo, $25; the Women's Auxiliary in Mobile, $25; Schenectady alumni, $400; and Wash­ington, D.C. alumni, $100. 
The program for securing corpora­tion gifts is being advanced through the Foundation headquarters staff and city chairmen. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president. Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of tlie Gradu­ate School and Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C., Academic Affairs vice-president are contacting learned scholars in the United States and in Europe with re­gard to Notre Dame's Distinguished Professors Program. 
It is anticipated that gifts to the 12th Annual Alumni Fund will be a primary source of financial help to Notre Dame during the coming months, in addition to contributions from cor­porations and non-alumni friends. 

Killian Speaks To Graduating Seniors 
"The United States should stand in a jittery world as a nation characterized not by fear, hysteria or complacency, but by poise, composure and hopeful­ness," President James R. Killian, Jr., of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech­nology stressed to graduates at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame's 109th annual commencement axercises. "There is ample reason for us to move ahead with a sense of urgency without despair or apathy," Dr. Killian said. 
Dr. Killian was one of six distin­tinguished Americans who received honorary degrees at the exercises. The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, also con­ferred honorary doctorates on Bishop Allen J. Babcock of Grand Rapids, who delivered tiie baccalaureate sermon; Harold S. Vance, president of The Studebaker Corporation; Samuel Eliot Morison, professor of history at Har­vard University; Thomas W. Pangbom, president of The Pangbom Corpora­tion, Hagerstown, Md.; and Justice Ernest E. L. Hammer of the Supreme Court of New York. More than one diousand Notre Dame students from fort)'-six states and thirteen foreign countries were awarded graduate and imdeip:aduate degrees. 
Medals and Prizes Awarded 
"America cannot progress wthout great men and great minds growing and working in an atmosphere of freedom —freedom of inquiry, freedom from fear and freedom from improper pres­sure," Dr. Killian declared in the com­mencement address. 
The commencement weekend events got under way with the traditional Last Visit of die senior class to Sacred Heart Church on die campus. This private ceremony was followed by the annual Class Day exercises in the University Drill Hall. Medals and prizes were awarded at these exercises and senior members of the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units received their com­missions. Student speakers on tlie occasion were: \ViIliam Guilfoile, Fond du Lac, Wis., president of the senior class; Joseph Imbriaco, Elizabeth, N. J., valedictorian; and Thomas Field, Wil­mington, Del., class orator and retiring president of the Student Senate. 
2 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 295i 
Record Attendance At 



AH Classes Report 
Presidents'. Conference 
Eighty-seven representatives from local aliunni clubs attended the Club 


Successful Reunion 
Presidents' Conference held on campus, Jime 10-11. Members of the Alumni Board of Directors also participated in the meeting. The group listened to the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., discuss the importance of club programs with regard to the University; heard panel sessions involving major activities in the annual program which included Universal Notre Dame Night, Univer­sal Communion Sunday, club member­ship, athledcs, imdergraduate relations, associate members and the women's auxiliary. 
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, led the discussion on club participation in the Foundation pro­gram. Alumni secretary James E. Armstrong explained the Club Manual as a means of assisting the presidents in planning annual programs. Other features on the agenda included pub­licity, exhibits of direct mail pieces and a presentation by Joe Boland of the Irish Network. 
The following presidents returned for the conference: 
Joseph Hannan, St. Joseph Valley; Michael J. Balog, Central Jersey; T. A. ^Veist, Aurora, 111.; John R. Welch, Indianapolis, Ind.; J. L. Willenbrink, Louisville, Ky.; Richard Thoen, Buf­falo, N. Y.; Matdiew E. Trudelle, Phoenbc, Ariz.; Dr. Leo Turgeon, Los Angeles, Calif.; Robert F. Schmit, Hiawathaland, Mich.; George A. Schwarz, Wichita, Kansas; Phil Shea, Idaho; Joseph Signiago, Memphis, Tenn.; Richard A. Stack, Fox River Valley, Wis.; Edward Steiner, Dayton, Ohio; Joseph Stengele, Joliet, 111.; Ralph T. Struhs, San Antonio, Texas; Fred J. Rahaim, Jacksonville, Fla.; Clark L. Reynolds, New Jersey; Rus­sell B. Rickus, Ohio Valley; Phillip L. Russo, Tidewater, Va.; John A. Parry, Eastern Kansas; Robert C. Odenbach, Rochester, N. Y.; Jack Ogren, Calumet District, Ind.; Eugene J. O'Neil, Pio­neer Valley, Mass.; John A. O'Connor, 
(Continued on page 10) 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. I, 1S39, at the PostolSce, Notre Dame, Ind., nnder the act of Au;. 24, 1912. 

It was the biggest, and undoubtedly the best. Class Reunion Weekend that has ever been held on the Notre Dame campus. Fro m Friday afternoon through Sunday morning 1,000 old grads dating from the Class of 1949 on back renewed friendships and observed the great physical expansion which has occurred at the University during the past 5—15—25 years. More than one-half of Notre Dame's 55 buildings have been erected since the men of '29 received their degrees a short 25 years ago. 
There was a representative turnout for all classes and especially those in the '04, '29, '44 and '49 groups. At­tendance records were established for the fifty-year men. Class of 1904, and for the 5-year-out alumni, the Class of 1949. 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, and Alumni Asso­ciation President James G. McColdrick, of New York City, were featured speakers at the Alumni Banquet on Saturday night. The Class of 1929 'imported' a band from downtown South Bend and staged a colorful parade from Lyons arch to the Dining Hall. 
All classes held their traditional Friday night dinners on campus. '04, '09, '14 and '19 were served in the Morris Inn dining room; '24 met in the O'Shaughnessy cafeteria; '29 util­ized the private room at Morris Inn; '34 ate in the East Dining Hall; '39 assembled at the Rockne Memorial; '44 men were in the Walsh Hall rec room; and '49 held its affair in Vet­viUe Rec HaU. 
Memorial Masses in honor of deceased classmates were observed on Saturday morning in the various hall chapels. Father Holderith conducted the all-day golf tourney on Saturday. Box lunches were served at noon to each class reunion hall and liquid refreshments were included for the weekend in the general registration fee of $20. • 
The Notre Dame Law Alimmi Asso­ciation welcomed members to the tra­ditional cocktail party prior to the Alumni Banquet on Saturday night. Progress Forums in the four colleges, campus tours and movies in Washing­ton Hall, were on the agenda Saturday afternoon. 
The weekend o£Sciaily terminated with a Mass in Sacred Heart Church for all reimion classes on Simday morn­ing. The sermon was given.by Father Joseph Barry, C.S.C, '29. 
Reunion Week-end attracted members o£ the 1904 and 1905 classes. (L. to R.): WiUiam Jamieson, '05, Daniel O'Connor, '05, A. C. Stepban, '04, John Quinn, '04 and Fr. Irving '04 
Wotre Dmme AtumnuSt AugmtStpUmher^ I9S4 
The Class of 1929 came early and stayed late—and enjoyed a wonderful week-end which featured a luncheon with Father Hesburgh and a class dinner on Friday evening. 
ReuniOH 

Father Hesburgh speaks to members of reunion classes at Alunmi Banquet. Very Rev. Christopher O'TooIe, C.S.C, Su­perior General of the Congregation of 

WeekeHd 

Holy Cross and a member of the '29 class, is on Fr. Hesburgh*s left. 
1954 

The Class of 1934 had a special class dinner on Friday night. Local co-chainncn Cahill and Krausc must have overslept for the picture. 
4 Notre Dame Alumnus, Ausust-September, 1954 
The boys of 1924, with Father Tom Kelly as local chairman, had an active reunion week-end. 
1914 Class members on reunion week-end I with Air. Konop, former dean of the Notre Dame Law School 
The Class of 1939 had a much larger turnout for reunion week-end than indicated in this photo. Chuck Reddy was elected class president. 
iVo/r* Dame Aluntnus, August-September, 19S4 
alumni, by the magazine NOTRE DAME. In addition, administration, 
CJUtonlai Qo4funeMii from your 
Alumni Secretary faculty and staff visit Alumni Clubs on 
'"AH the alumni get is die constant appeal to give." 
I've heard this. And sometimes, because opportunities are so great, and because your help is so vital, I think maybe it is a \'alid statement. But we don't want it to be like that, and I am sure it isn't. I have just read a talk given at an educational conference on "Ten Responsibilities of an Institution to Its Alumni." I have measured Notre Dame by this yardstick, and you should be aware, and proud, of the result: 
I. To Insure A Vigorous, Productive Alumni Program. If you look in any issue of our ALUMNUS, and at die report of the FOUNDATION, you will know diat our Clubs, our Classes, and our Fund are all vigorous and pro­ductive, not only for Notre Dame, but for you as alumni, in Club or Class, and as individuals. The Universit)' has worked closely with your Alumni Board to insure this. 
II. To Guarantee A Firm Financial Base for the Alum/ii Program. AVhen 
the Alumni Fund replaced the old system of alumni dues in 1941-42, the University assured your Board of Di­rectors that the first charge against alumni contributions would give ade­quate budget provision for a sound, progressive Association program. That has been our e-xperience in the sub­sequent years. 
III. To Maintain the Independence of the Alumni Association. In spite of the integration of the Alumni OflBce, and budget, the University has recog­nized the Alumni Association program as a proper and sole responsibility of your own elected Directors. That your Directors recognize the need for in­tegration, and diat the program cost is a part of the University budget, has not, over the years, affected the funda­mental independence of the alumni organization. 
IV. To Provide Avenues of Com­munication Between Alumni and the University. The ALUMNUS maga­zine has been supplemented, for all 
The family of Lt. Robert G. Herlihy, '52; USMCR, recently was presented the Silver Star Medal posthumously awarded to Lt. Herlihy who was killed in action in Korea on July 26, 1953. (L. to R.): Major R. W. Killoran, USMCR; John E. Herlihy, Jr., '47, hrother; Mrs. 
Herlihy and Dr. Herlihy, parents. 
many occasions, and Class Reunions bring hundreds of alunrni annually to the campus. 
V. To Recognize That Alumni Have Come of Age. In the 1954-55 Univer­sity Bulletin there are 25 religious and lay officers of administration listed in the executive, academic, student, plant, and development categories. Of these officers, 23 are alumni. So that the recognition of alumni maturity begins at home. It extends to the many areas in which the University points to alum­ni as Trustees, as Council members, as its official representatives in a diversity of fields. 
VI. Willingness To Put Alumni To Work. In the above areas, and in the programs of the Foundation, the Local Clubs, and in all phases of Notre Dame life, on and off the campus, this has been a recognition by the University that needs no elaboration for Notre Dame men, or for their families who have shared their time and efforts with the University. 
VII. To Provide A Satisfying Stu­dent Experience. Tliis involves the development of undergraduate re­lations, so that the student is formed as a good future alumnus between his matriculation and his graduation. The University and student leaders are working on this. Your Alumni Office is working with the student leaders; we have worked with the sons of alumni y on the campus; we have met with and played host to the Seniors on occasion; and to the officers of all the Classes; we have worked with the freshman orientation program. This is an area * of recent, but encouraging develop­ment. 
VIII. To Provide Continuing Edu­cation For Alumni. In the scattered nature of our alumni population, this has not yet been practicable to any great exteht. But by ALUMNUS articles, by reading lists, by visiting faculty members, by programs for alumni meetings on the campus, we have begim to enter this relationship more seriously. A new proposal for a network of Discussion Clubs, led by 
£ Notre Dame Alumnms, AuenslSeplember, 19S4­
The Class of 
alunmi, dealing with Great Issues, is being studied by your Alumni Board and tlie University, and can prove to be the bridge in this relatively pioneer­ing channel. The Association has recognized the principle of this respon­sibility, as has the University, for many years. 
IX. To Enlist Alumni As Spearheads In Securing Public Understanding and Support. The staiBng, almost in its entirety, of the Foundation program by alumni, as Governors, Chairmen, and Committeemen, and the public relations programs channelled through the Local Clubs, is adequate evidence of the University's happy discharge of this responsibility'. 

 1944 was unusually active for being out ten whole years. 
X. To Uphold Its Own Standards And Make Ma.ximum Use of Its Re­sources To Move Constantly Ahead. If any alumnus has read his magazines, or has visited the campus, or knows from Dejms and professors of tlie great developments in Arts and Letters, in Science, in Engineering, in Commerce, and in Law, he cannot fail to realize how far beyond the call of duty and the "quid pro quo" Notre Dame has gone in raising its standards, moving ahead, and enhancing thereby the de­gree of every alumnus of every De­partment. 
You have been wonderful alumni. No college or university I know of—and I study the field carefully—has a more far-flung, active, dependable and re­sponsive alumni. Our Annual Fund participation by alumni is twice the national average. 
There is admittedly much room for improvement in every phase, on our alumni side. 
And Notre Dame also recognizes much room for improvement in all the above channels of responsibility. 
But I wanted you to know that in 8 of the 10 Responsibilities, Notre Dame has far more than a creditable showing. In the 9th,—adult education —the success will rest on your response, and in the 10th,—a satisfying student experience—progress is most gratifying. 
—JI M ARMSTRONG. 

The Class of 1949 seem to be enjoying life on reunion week-end. 
Sotrt Dame Atummms, AugtutStptember, i954 
Fr. Hesburgh Appointed to Science Board 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G., has been confirmed by the U. S. Senate as a member of the National Science Board. President Eisen­hower had nominated Father Hesburgh for a six-year term expiring in May, 1960. 
The National Science Board was established in 1950 to promote tiie progress of science, ad­vance the national healtli, prosperity and welfare, and secure tlie national defense. It is composed of t%venty-four members, appointed by the Presi­dent \vith the approval of tlie Senate, from the fields of the basic sciences, medical science, engi­neering, agriculture, education and public affairs. 
Award Meehan Scholarships 

Four-year scholarsliips to Notre Dame begin­ning in September have been awarded to four students from southern states. The Meehan scholarships, founded in 1936 by the late Augustus 
F. Meehan of Chattanooga, provide an annual stipend of $750 for four years. The grant is renewed automatically each year provided tlie recipient maintains an academic average of 85% or better. 
Foremen Graduate 

Eighty-nine South Bend area foremen received certificates recently at a graduation dinner mark­ing the close of a 15-week Foremanship Develop­ment course held on campus and taught by N.D. professors. Dean James E. McCarthy of Notre Dame's College of Commerce presided at the din­ner which was attended by executives of 17 com­panies whose foremen enrolled in the program. 

8 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
N. D. On Sorbonne Program 
Two representatives of the University of Notre Dame had prominent roles in the American cele­bration of the 700th anniversary of the founding' of the College of Sorbonne recently in New York City. They were the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs at Notre Dame, and the Rev. A. L. Gabriel, director of the University's Mediaeval Institute. 
Labor Leader Donates Personal Papers 
The personal, papers of a 93-year-old labor leader, recording a half-century of tlie history of the American labor movement, were presented to the University of Notre Dame. Frank Duffy, vice-president of the American Federation of Labor from 1913 to 1948 and secretary of the Interna­tional Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners for 48 years, gave the material to the Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs at the University. 

Sullivan Named Asst. Dean, MSU 
Professor Robert E. Sullivan, '40, of the Notre Dame College of Law has been named assistant dean of the law school at Montana State Uni­versity at Missoula. His appointment, effective August 1st, was announced by Dr. Carl McFar­land, president of the Montana institution. Sulli­van, a Notre Dame altunnus, joined the faculty of his alma mater in 1947. A specialist in oil and gas law, he is the author of Handbook on Oil and Gas Law soon, to be published by Prentice-Hall. He has served as executive secretary of the Notre Dame Law Association since 1948. 
_i iiiurr-, I 
NOV": 
r'->B mil': 


Law Scholarships 

Two new scholsurships valued in excess of $1800 each have been established in the Notre Dame College of Law, according to an announce­ment by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesbutgh, C.S.C., university president. Father Hesburgh has designated that they be known as the John J. Cav­anaugh Law Scholarships in honor of his prede­cessor, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who served as president of Notre Dame from 1946 to 1952. 

Freshmen Survey 

Nearly 65 percent of the fathers of Notre Dame's freshman class who are gainfully em­ployed are professional men or proprietors, man­agers or officials of a business enterprise, accord­ing to recent research directed by Dr. John F. X. Ryan of the University's education department. The same occupational classifications represented only 16.5 percent of the employed males in the 1940 census, Ryan said. 

Dr. Busch Gives Painting 
Massacre of the Innocents, a painting by Jan Brueghel the Elder, a noted 17th century Dutch artist, has been donated to the University of Notre Dame galleries. The painting is the gift of Dr. M. 
L. Busch, head of the Mission Hospital at Hunting­ton Park, Calif. It is the sixth painting that Doctor Busch has given to the Notre Dame galleries in recent years. 

Fr. Ill Celebrates 60th 
. The Rev. Bernard J. Ill, C.S.C., celebrated his 60th anniversar)' as a priest on April 29. Father 111 was ordained in 1894 by Bishop Rademacher. He taught at Notre Dame, at St. Edward's Uni­versity, Austin, Texas, and at the University of Portland, Ore. He was president of St. Joseph's Coilese in Cincinnati for seven years. 

Kent Fellowship 

James J. Cannon, Jr., a 1954 Notre Dame graduate from Glen Rock, N. J., has been award­ed a Kent Fellowship by The National Council On Religion in Higher Education. According to the Council, fellowships have been granted to seven­teen American students "who are committed to a religious approach to life and who look forward to professional service as teachers or administrators in higher education." 

Fr. Lauck Receives Prize 
The Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., has been awarded the Leonard Cantor Memorial Prize for Sculpture in the 47th annual Indiana Artists Exhibition at the John Herron Art Institute, Indianapolis. Father Lauck, who is a native ol Indianapolis, is a member of the fine arts faculty at the University of Notre Dame. His prize­winning terra cotta sculpture, "The Visitation," portrays the visit of the Virgin Mary to Sziint Elizabeth. 

Wiener Lechjres at N. D. 
Paul Lester Wiener, internationally known architect and city planner of New York City, recently gave an illustrated lecture on city plan­ning in Nieuwland Science Hall. 

Reyniers Gets Pasteur Award 
The Society of Illinois Bacteriologists named Prof. James A. Reyniers of the University of Notre Dame as the recipient of its Pasteur Award for 1954. Reyniers, who is founder and director of Notre Dame's LOBUND Institute, was selected "for his pioneering work in germ-free research,", according to Dr. J. C. McCaffrey, award commit­tee chairman. 

Chemistry Profs Present Papers 
SLx University of Notre Dame chemistry pro­fessors presented papers at the 125th national meeting of the American Chemical Society. They were Dr. Milton Burton, Brother Columba Cur­ran, C.S.C., Dr. William H. Hamill, Dr. Patrick McCusker, Dr. James Quagliano and Dr. Russell 
R. Williams. 


Four Students Awarded Fellowships 
Four University of Notre Dame students have been awarded National Science Foimdation fel­lowships for graduate study during 1954-55, ac­cording to the Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School. Eleven other Notre Dame students were accorded honorable mention in the nationwide competition. Father Beichner said. 
Notre Dame AlumKus, AuguilSeplember, 1954 
Fred B. Snitc, Jr., '33, was recently initiated into the first degree Knights of Columbus at Miami Beach, Fla. (L. to R.): William J. Magill, Grand Knight of Miami Beach Coun­cil; Snitc; and Charles J. Hartley, District Deputy, Southeast Florida, K. of C. 
PRESIDENTS' CONFERENCE 
(Continued from page 3) 
Northern California; John O'Shaugh­nessy, Chicago, 111.; Robert McAulifTe, Central New York; John J. McClaren, and Jerry Bill, San Diego, Calif. 
Charles B. McFarland, Oklahoma City, Okla.; Blair McGowan, Jackson, Mich.; James McQuaid, Evansville, Ind.; James H. Murray, Baltimore, Md.; James J. Mahoney, Kalamazoo, Mich.; RajTnond Marre, Ft. Smith, Ark.; Walter Marut, Naugatuck Valley, Conn.; William Meagher, Portland, Ore.; Robert Metzler, Kansas City, Mo.; Joseph Moore, Grand Rapids, Mich.: John Moran, Dallas, Tex.; William F. Mulrenan, Southwestern Conn.; John R. Murphy, Columbus, Ohio; Maurice F. Leahy, South Central Wisconsin; WilUam Leonard, Schenec­tady, N. Y.; Edward A. Kelly, Mianu, Fla.; Richard King and Pete Keman, Dearborn, Mich. 

William Kerwin, Green Bay, Wis.; John A. Kramer, Scranton, Pa.; Jolin Jacobs, Peoria, 111.; C. E. Jordan, New Mexico; William M. Healy, Boston, Mass.; Joseph Hipp, Erie, Pa.; Robert 
F. Holtz, Elkhart, Ind.; Anthony Gi­ruzzi, Mohawk Valley, N. Y.; Frank Gaul, Cleveland, Ohio; Leo P. Fagan, Tulsa, Okla.; Albert T. Frantz, Denver, Colo.; J. Francis English, Wabash Val­ley, Ind.; Carl Eilers, Twin Cities, Minn.; Donald G. Dewey, Rock River Valley, 111.; WilUam J. Donelan, South-em Colorado; ^Villiam Doucette, Mil­waukee, Wis.; Paul J. Doyle, Houston, Tex.; Joseph Chaniga, Racine-Keno­sha, Wis.; James J. Clynes, New York City; George J. Convy, St. Louis, Mo.; William W. Corr, Georgia; William 
Bembrock, Tri-Cities, 111.; Earl Brieger and Tom Gillespie. Pittsburgh, Pa.; John Brodberger, Cincinnati, Ohio; Raymond G. Allen, Youngstown, Ohio; John Anhut and Ed Gage, Detroit, Mich.; and William Ford, El Paso, Texas. 

Magazine Salesmen 

Beware of magazine salesmen who imply that they are being sponsored by the University or an Alumni Club. A solicitor in the Chicago area recently posed as a Notre Dame student. The Uni­versity does not sanction in any way its name by any solicitor nor does it permit students to solicit magazines using the Notre Dame name. 
Eighty-seven cluh presidents and alumni board members attended the conference. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, Augmt-September, 1954 
75th Anniversary  
Of Main Bldg. Fire  
By James E. Murphy  
Seventy-five years ago the University  
I  of Notre Dame was all but destroyed  
by fire. Fortunately there were no  
casualties—the fire started at eleven in  
the morning—but the flames razed four  
structures, including the Main Building  
whose magnificent Golde n Dom e  
plunged into the smouldering debris.  
'  The fire of 1879 brought to Notre  
Dame the greatest crisis it has experi­ 
enced before or since.  
Within a few hours, the disastrous  
blaze had wiped out the result of thirty- 
seven years' work by Father Edward  
r  Sorin, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame,  
and the other Holy Cross priests and  
Brothers, and laymen who had built a  
university in the northern Indiana  
wilderness. Only one-fifth of the $200.­ 
000 loss, staggering in those days, was  
covered by insurance. Father William  
Corby, C.S.C., then president of the  
University, decided that the students  
should be sent home, but he promised  
that they would find a bigger and better  
Notre Dame when they returned in  
September.  
Father Sorin had left the campus a  
J  few days before the fire for a trip to  
his nati\'e France. The 65-year-old  
priest had travelled as far as Montreal  
when he received word of the tragedy  
that had come to his beloved Notre  
Dame. Returning immediately to the  
campus, the aging priest surveyed the  
>  still smouldering ruins and then sum­ 
moned his fellow religious and faculty  
members to Sacred Heart Church, one  
of the few campus buildings which  
escaped the flames.  
A man of lesser courage and trust in  
i.  God might have broken in the crisis.  
But in a spirit to be manifested again  
"•  and again in later years by Notre Dame  
men. Father Sorin declared: "If it were  
all gone, I should not give up!"  
"This fire has been my fault," Father  
_  Sorin told his colleagues. "I came here  
with the vision of a great university and  
-  named it after the Mother of God.  
Then, I built a great building, so I  
thought. But she had to bum it to the  
ground to show me that my vision was  
too narrow. Tomorrow, when the bricks  
are cooled, we will clean them and be­ 
(Continued on page 13)  


tt|> \'\\ Take the High Road" 
Bob Blake, '40, author of the book, "I'll Take the High Road," surveys the Silcsian Plains from a Crusader's castle he took possession of near Ceyhan, Turkey. 
'^1cuue^ BooJi o^ ike, IfeaA. 
"I'll Take the High Road" is the ideal title for the book written by Robert W. Blake, '44, of Canton, O., and published by the Henry Regnery Cot Following a degree in Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, Bob served ^^'ith the Marines in World War II. He de­cided to do a bit of globe-trotting after things had calmed down and the result is "I'll Take the High Road." 
Bob shipped out of New York on a Greek tramp steamer and followed the route of conquest of Alexander the Great, through the Middle East after exploring the Acropolis and Mt. Olym­pus, where he fell in with Greek guer­illas. He describes scaling the dome of Santa Sophia in Istanbul at mid­

¥r. Hesburgh Elected To Nutrition Board 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, has been elected to the Board of Trustees of the Nutrition Foundation, Inc., ac­cording to an announcement by George A. Sloan, president of the Foundation. 
night, he delved into the secrets of the fabled city of Petra and slept in the eerie Valley of the Assassins. 
Included in the volume are adven­tures in Nishapur, the city of Omar Khayyam, Baghdad, Sringar, Manda­lay, Babylon, Cairo, Jerash, Kunming and Canton, China. At Kimming he enjoyed a six-course dinner which cost him $4,500 in local coin of the realm but only 6 cents in honest-to gosh American money. 
Bob Blake resides in Canton, O., wt h his wife and four children, at 4032 Martindale Rd., NE. He is secretary-treasurer of the Joseph M. Blake Real Estate Corp., but intends to continue writing. At present he is working on a novel and hopes to do other travel books. 
INSURANCE 
We would urge all Alumni in 

the Life Insurance Business to 
register their business address 
and Company affiliation with: 
James E. Armstrong 
Alumni Secretary 
Notre Dome, Indiana 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 11 
NEW YORK CITY—Attending the Old Timers' dinner in New York were, {L. to R.): Edward M. McLaughlin, J. P. McEvoy, Club President James Clynes, Father John J. Ca\'anaugh, Ed Tlghe and Leo Rasche. 


Old Timers' Dinner Sponsored By New York City Alumni Club 
The New York Club sponsored another "first" among alumni activities with an Old Timers' Dinner for the men in the area who had been out of Notre Dame for thirty years or more. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., di­rector of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the principal speaker, while arrangements for the affair were hand­led by a committee headed by the Hon. Frank C. Walker, '09, chairman, and Leo J. Rasche, '96, Edgar Kobak, '16, and Charles M. Reagan, '17. 
Edward T. Tighe, '24, served as toastmaster. Father Cavanaugh turned the m'eeting into an interesting round-table question-and-answer discussion of Notre Dame and its development during the past three decades. J. P. McEvoy, '14, well-known writer, told his amusing story of how he worked hb way through the University. 
There were thirty-seven men present including "Zip" Lathrop, '16, who played tackle in the first Notre Dame-Army game. Senior members at the dinner were Leo Rasche, '96, and Henry Brown, '02. The hosts for the meeting were three young alumni mem­bers of the club who liked the idea so much that they asked to be permitted to give the dinner anonymously. 
Those who attended the dinner in­cluded: John T. Balfe, '20; Henry Brown, '02; Glen M. Carberry, '23; Alex J. Colgan, '21; Gerald J. Craugh, '21; William A. Daunt, '08; Suneon T. Flanagan, '14; Charles A. Gorman, '03; Francis E. Hackett, '11; Hon. Ernest 
E. L. Hammer, '04; WUUam H. Has­kins, '23: James F. Hayes, '24; John F. Heffeman, '22; Justin E. Hyland, '22; Ralph J. Lathrop, '16; Alexander J. Lockwood; Leo C. McElroy, '10; Joseph P. McEvoy, '14; Francis P. McFadden, '21-'24; Edward M. Mc­Laughlin, '18; Richard C. Miller, '24; Owen Murphy, '14; William J. Mur­phy, '22; Leo J. Rasche, '96; Frank A. Scanlan; Dr. Thomas Sheehan, '21; Edward T. Tighe, '24; Jesse N. Torres, 23; Louis E. Veneziani, 1900; Louis 

E. Wagner, '18; Joseph M. Walsh, '14; 
W. Harold Welch, '24; William Wen­zel, '20; Louis J. Bums, Jr., '49, (The Notre Dame Foundation); Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C; William F. Cronin, '28, (The Notre Dame Foimda­tion); James J. Clynes, Jr., '45, (Pres., Notre Dame Club of New York). 
CHRISTIANITY AND AMERICAN CAPITALISM, Rev. Edward A. Keller, C.S.C, '27 (The Heritage Foundation, Inc., Chicago, $1.50). 
Father Keller, who for a number 

of years headed the Bureau of Eco­
nomic Research at the University of 
Notre Dame, has compiled in a small, 
attractive book, published by Arthur 
Conrad's ('35) Heritage Foundation, 
interpretation of the Social Encyclicals 
as they may be applied to conditions, 
especially capital and labor and man­
agement, in the United States. 
His Excellency, Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D. ('11), Arch­bishop of Philadelphia, makes the im-
Ten Priests Ordained InSacredHeartChurch 
Ten young men were ordained as  
priests of the Congregation of Holy  
Cross at the University of Notre Dame  
recently. The Most Rev. Leo A. Pur­ ^  
sley, Au-xiliary Bishop of Fort Wayne,  
officiated at the ceremony in Sacred  
Heart Church on the campus.  
Those ordained included: Rev.  
Frederick F. Barr, C.S.C, Peoria, 111.;  
Rev. Richard J. Downs, C.S.C, Wyan­ 
dotte, Mich.; Rev. Donald P. Draine,  i>  
CS.C, Chicago, 111.; Rev. William L.  
Graham, C.S.C, Houston, Tex.; Rev.  "^  
Nicholas J. Langenderfer, C.S.C,  
Swanton, Ohio; Rev. Richard A. Lau­ 
rick, CS.C, Elmhurst, 111.; Rev. Pat­ 
rick Maloney, CS.C, Crown Point,  ^j  
Ind.; Rev. Thomas M. Markos, C.S.C,  
Chicago, 111.; Rev. Peter D. Sandonato,  
CS.C, Pittsburgh, Pa.; and Rev.  
Joseph C Stroot, C.S.C, St. Louis, Mo.  

Celebrate First Mass in Home Parish 
The newly ordained priests cele­brated their first Solemn Masses in their home parishes on Sunday, June 13th. Shortly thereafter, they wll be assigned to one of the activities of the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Four members of the ordination class served in World War II before beginning their studies for the priest­hood. All of them received their col­lege education at Notre Dame and their theological training at Holy Cross Col­lege, Washington, D. C 
portant point for alumni to consider, in his introduction to the book: 
". . . Father Keller in his applica­tion of social doctrine of the Church to the United States gives his personal interpretations of the social doctrines. He does, however, rabe many logical doubts concerning the interpretation of some Catholic social scientists, who seem to approve the 'modem supersti­tion' and who in their own personal interpretation of encyclical teaching J^ , make 'co-management' the heart of the Church's social doctrine. 
"It is our hope that such a frank discussion of the social problem as Father Keller's will stimulate serious study of the very difficult problem of the correct interpretation of encyclical teaching and its application to the United States." 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 


MAIN BUILDING HRE 
(Continued from page 11) 

gin again. But this time, we will build a really large building, and when it is finished, we will place a magnificent Golden Dome above it to show to all the glory of Notre Dame, the Mother of God. who has inspired my life's work." ' 
The ne.\t day found Father Sorin, among the other religious, pushing a wheelbarrow and going about the task of building a greater Notre Dame. Ground was broken for the new Ad­ministration Building on May 17th. By the Fourth of July, at a pace of con­struction difficult to match even today, three stories of the structure had been completed. AVhen 324 students returned to the campus in September, they marvelled at the new building, the major portion of it completed and sub­stantially the same as it is today. 
Notre Dame has been building and growing ever since. The Administra­tion Building, still at the heart of the University, is now surrounded by over fifty buildings, more than half of them built since 1930. The student body numbering a little over three-hundred in 1879, now stands at 5,400, the largest in Notre Dame's 112-year history. The University has experienced a number of crises in its century of existence and doubtless others will come in the future, but none is likelv to match the fire of 1879. 
THE FA.MILY ROSARY EDITION OF THE CATHOLIC HOLY BIBLE 
The Family Rosary Edition of the Holy Bible —a magnificent achievement—will inspire every Catholic to read the Holy Scriptures; stimulate greater devotion to our Blessed Mother. Never before has there appeared such high scholarship to help yoimg and old to a more complete understanding of the Word of God. 
A - lifetime Treasure of Heirloom Splendor Life of Mary . . . beautifully illustrated in color . . . Large beautiful type . . . 100 world's greatest masterpieces in full color . • . Sacrifice of the Mass fully illustrated . . . All the >«*ords of Our Lord printed in red . . . Illustrated section on the Rosar>' .. . Seven Sacraments fully explained . . . Stations of the Cross in color . . . the Holy Land as it looks today . . . Biblical maps . . . Illustrated sec­tion on Rome . . . Illustrated section on St. Peter's and the Vatican . . . Pictures of the Twelve Apostles in color . . . Beautiful family register . . . Names of 1,300 Saints with Feast Da>-s . . . 400,000-word Catholic Home Encj-­dopedia. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Please send 'me at once. FAMILY ROSARY EDITION(s) of the Catholic Bible. Price $29.95 each. Name ™ ~— Address -—— City & State 
-Remittance End. Send C.O.D. 

Main Building in 1879 Before the Great Fire 
Dame's biology department by Dr. J. Donate Lab Equipment B. McCormick, Chicago pathologist, it 
was announced here by the Rev. Rob­
Thousands of laboratory' slides and ert J. Sheehan, C.S.C., department several anatomical models valued at a head. Dr. McCormick, a 1947 Notre total of more than $6,000 have been Dame graduate, is owner of the Histo­given to the University of Notre slide Company in Chicago. 
Jerome J. Crowley, Jr., '31, pres. of the O'Brien Corp., South Bend, Ind., paint manufac­turer, reviews with Father Hesburgh provisions of a new scholarship which his company has established at Notre Dame. The scholarship grant provides tuition for two years to a student majoring in chembtry or chemical engineering who has demonstrated an interest in paint technology. Crowley is a member of the College of Commerce Advisory CoundL 
Notre Damf Alumnus, AuiUitSeptembtr, 1954 IX 
Rev. John J. Ca\-anaugh, C.S.C., presenting awards to Bernard J. VoU, '17, at surprise civic party honoring Mr. Vol! for his chairmanship of the St. Joseph County Hospital Develop­ment campaign ithich raised $5,700,000 for Memorial and St. Joseph Hospitals in South Bend. At the testimonial were 110 people who had been associated with Mr. VoU in the leadership of the campaign. Representing "the Citizens of St. Joseph County" Fr. Cav­anaugh presented Mr. VoU with a plaque (foreground) thanking him for his work and an inscribed book (background) signed hy some 1,200 campaign workers who served during the drive. 

Holy Cross Brothers Plan School in Dacca 
into the Dacca of 1951 with its increased population and its infant industry and cit>'-plannmg, it was \vith an eye to the future that the Brothers of Holy Cross, encouraged by Archbishop Graner, C.S.C., en­visaged a center for the training of young men for industry. Ever since there has been planning and a searching for property. This past February land was purchased for this project and the work actually begun. There have been sliipments of macliinerj' and tools until now there is sufficient for a beginning. These tools and the macliinery were forthcoming from many of Notre Dame's alumni and we wish pub­licly to acknowledge these gifts and donations. We wanted to show them some evidence of their benefactions before this, but things in the East are thinss in the East, and as I 
wrote to one of the alumni, "We don't have the OVERNIGHT SERWCE 
BETWEEN CHICAGO AND SOUTH 
BEND," over here. 
With this then, Mr, Armstrong, let me diank you again for your as­sistance and suggestions given while I was in the States, and through you we thank all the alumni of No­tre Dame and the friends who have in any way assisted us in this proj­ect. Archbishop Graner is almost as much pleased when he learns of gifts and donations that we receive as we are in receiving them—almost. 
BROTHER JUDE, C.S.C. 

NEW JOBS FOR McARDLE, McBRIDE 
Joe McArdle, who served as line coach under Frank Leahy, is now with the Central States Fabricating Corp., 1618 S. Main St., South Bend, Ind., while Bob McBride, another line men­tor on Leahy's staff, is located with Exo-Thermic Alloys, Sales and Serv­ice, Chicago, 111. 
Fr. Cunningham Speaks At Meeting in Havana 

The Rev. William F. Cunningham, 
C.S.C, professor of education at the 
University of Notre Dame, addressed 
the triennial convention of the Cath­
olic Inter-American Educational Con­
federation at Havana, Cuba, recently. 
Father Cunningham discussed "Re­
gional Accreditation of Colleges and 
Universities in the United States." Ap­
proximately five hundred educators 
from countries throughout the Amer­
icas attended the sessions at the Col­
legio Belen in Havana. 
During his stay in Havana, Father 
Cunningham was present at a dinner-
meeting of Notre Dame alumni in the 
area. Before returning to the Notre 
Dame campus Father Cunningham 
went to Cincinnati for the executive 
committee meeting of the college and 
university department of the National 
Catholic Educational Association. A 
veteran member of the Notre Dame 
faculty. Father Cunningham is the 
author of the new book. General Edu­
cation and the Liberal College. 
Father Cunningham has travelled widely throughout Latin America and for many years has served as coordi­nator of Inter-American groups at Notre Dame. He was accompanied to the Havana convention by tlie Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.C, who joined the Notre Dame faculty- this Fall after re­ceiving his doctorate in education at Yale. 


Three Paintings Given To Notre Dame Gallery 
Three paintings have been presented to Notre Dame by two Chicago art collectors. 
Lewis J. Ruskin, president of the Ford Hopkins Company, is the donor of Cincinnatus Offering His Baton to a Farmer, a painting by Giovanni Bat­tista Tiepolo, the last of the great ar­tists of the Venetian school. Richard 
W. Hoffman, radio executive and for­mer U. S. Representative, has pre­sented two German primitives by Jakob Schick to the University. 
i^ Notre Dame AlumnuSt August-September, 1954 
•{^JjMiics 
1954 Results—INDOOR TRACK  1954 Results—BASEBALL  
Won 1, Lost 3  Won 12, Lost 13  
Notre Dame 45Notre Dame 37^2  Missouri Indiana  ._  59  66/2  Notre DameNotre Dame  0  Memphis N.A. Station (rain)  Arkansas State Teachers  10  
Notre Dame 66 Marquette 38 Closed. CCC at ND — ND 59, Marquette 38  Notre DameNotre Dame  7 8  Memphis N.A. Station : Southwestern College  3 2  
1954 Results—OUTDOOR  TRACK  Notre Dame  3  Memphis N.A. Station  12  
Won 1, Lost 2  Notre Dame  9  Memphis State College  1  
Purdue & Indiana Relays at Bloomington— Indiana 73, Notre Dame 54, Purdue 30 Notre Dame 62 Mich. State ....79  Notre Dame 3Notre Dame 9Notre Dame 16  Arkansas State College Arkansas State College Purdue  4 8  10  
Notre Dame 90 Mich. Normal 41 Notre Dame 59 1/3 Pittsbui^h 71 2/3 State Meet at Lafayette—Indiana 104, Notre Dame 68/2, Purdue 58 AVest. Mich. Invitational Meet at Kalamazoo— West. Mich. 74}/^, Bradley 57, Notre Dame 38  Notre DameNotre DameNotre DameNotre DameNotre DameNotre Dame  3 7 1 3 4  Northwestern '. Western Michigan .... Michigan (cancelled)  Michigan State Great Lakes Glenview N.A. Station  6 4 8 ^ 7 1  
Notre Dame  0  Purdue  ­ 7  
1953-54 Results—BASKETBALL  Notre Dame  2  Northwestern  ..;  9  
Won 22, Lost 3  Notre Dame  1  Iowa  .  18  
Notre Dame 84  Ball State  63  Notre Dame  4  Iowa  1  
Notre Dame 75  Northwestern  66  Notre Dame 16  Indiana  4  
Notre Dame 72  Detroit  45  Notre Dame  3  Great Lakes  4  
Notre Dame 55  Indiana  66  Notre Dame  4  Michigan State  .  6  
Notre Dame 81  Loyola  65  Notre Dame  1  Ohio State  11  
Notre Dame 72  Bradley  74  Notre Dame  3  Ohio State  1  
Notre Dame 52  Northwestern  50  Notre Dame  2  Western Michigan  3  
Notre Dame 72  Louisville  53  Notre Dame  6  Santo Domingo  4  
Notre Dame 99  NYU  64  Notre Dame  4  Santo Domingo  3  
Notre Dame 83Notre Dame 78Notre Dame 95Notre Dame 95Notre Dame 59Notre Dame 74Notre Dame 86Notre Dame 81Notre Dame 84Notre Dame 62Notre Dame 79Notre Dame-71Notre Dame 79  Holy Cross Canisius Purdue Butler DePaul Michigan State DePaul '.. Butler Navy Pennsylvania Marquette Loyola Marquette  61  59  74  58  54  71  71  56  72  .47  66  65  68  1954 Results—FENCING Won 12, Lost 1 Notre Dame 16 IowaNotre Dame 17 CaseNotre Dame 13 Wisconsin .Notre Dame 18 DetroitNotre Dame 15 IllinoisNotre Dame 19 Wayne .Notre Dame 17 Michigan StateNotre Dame 18 NorthwesternNotre Dame 16 Ohio StateNotre Dame 21 ChicagoNotre Dame 25 La^vrence Tech  11  10  14  :.. 9  12 8  10 9  11 6 2  
N.C.A.A.  TOURNAMENT  Notre Dame 24  Kentudcy  .  3  
Notre Dame 80  Loyola (South)  70  Notre Dame 20  Cinciimati  7  
Notre Dame 65Notre Dame 63  Indiana Penn State  ..64  71  1954 Results—TENNIS Won 7, Lost 5  
1954 Results—GOLF  Notre Dame  8  Cincinnati  1  
Won 5 dual matches. Lost 5 dual matches  Notre Dame  3  Michigan  6  
Notre Dame 16J/2  Western Illinois State....l3}4  Notre Dame  4  Michigan State  '.  5  
Notre Dame 10  Bradley  17  Notre Dame  8  Northwestern  1  
Notre Dame 17  Valparaiso  1  Notre Dame  9  Chicago  0  
Notre Dame II54  Michigan State  I55/2  Notre Dame  2  Indiana  7  
Notre Dame 12  Louisville  6  Notre Dame  3  Western Mich.  6  
Notre Dame 14J4  Wisconsin  12^4  Notre Dame  5  Purdue  '.  4  
Notre Dame IV/i  Northwestern  15^4  Notre Dame  8  Detroit  .1  
Notre Dame 13  Detroit  14  Notre Dame  8  Marquette  1  
Notre Dame 13  Purdue  23  Notre Dame  5  Wisconsin  .4  
Notre Dame 19  Indiana  1  17  Notre Dame  4  Iowa  5  
Notrt  Dame  Alumnmj, AugiutS*pUmber,  1954  15  

the splendid work in organizing the chib's functions 
during their terms of oflice. 
The first gathering June 20th ^mder our new president, CHUCK PATTERSON, *47, w ^ a picnic 
for all Notre Dame men and their families. It 
iimni i C^iuSi 

u-as held at CHARLIE CROWLEVs ('21) Riven 
End Farm, in Millls, Mass. The weather was ideal 
and about 180 Notre Dame men and thor families 
participated in the affair. The Notre Dame men 
really kept up the tradition \rith demonstrations 
RICK, CS.C , '31, Director of the Holy Cross of large families. Honors went to HARRY MARR, 
Akron Foreign ^fission Society. Honored Baltimore guests '37, with eight of his nine children present. The 
in attendance were the Rt. Rev. Louts C. Vaeth, voungcst participant of the group was RICHARD 
HUGH M. COLOPY, '33, has been elected presi­Archdiocesan Director, Society for the Propagation HERLIHY, Jr., six weeks old. Charlie Crowley 
dent of the Akron Bar Association. Colopy has of the Faith, and tho Very Rev. Thomas J. Murray, and his wife Madeline wi:h the assistance of his 
served on ke>* Bar association committees, is a past S.J., President of Loyola College. Tlie Man of the beautiful daughters Ellen and Anno Crowley, did president of the Akron Notre Dame Club, a past Year Award was presented to PETER HAJEWSKI. 
a magnificent job of hostesses. Their hospitality faithful naxigator of the Msgr. Joseph 0*Keefc '37, who was also installed as Treasurer of the and kindness can never be equalled any%*hcre. The Assembly, Fourth Degree, Knights of Columbus, local club for the year 1954-53. Others taking, of­swimming pool was a\'ailable for all the kids and vice-president of the Akron Cancer Society, a mem­fice for the new year are JAMES H. ifURRAV, tho old men played softball with a beach ball as ber of the American Legion and the Veterans of JR., MI, President (a repeat performance!), JO­the fastest ball tliey could handle. BILL STEW-Foreign Wars. SEPH PONS, '44, Vice-Pnaidcnt, and JAMES E. 
.\RT, '43, was Chairman of the outing and handled 
BARRETT, '40, Secretary. Tlic program was car­
EDWARD HINDERSCHEID, '30, has been elected the affair magnificently. I think Bill is going to 
ried by Radio Station WCBM. 
faithful navigator of the Msgr. Joseph O'Kccfe As­be elected automatically for next year's affair. The sembly, Fourth Degree, Knights of Columbus, and New members added to the c^tr-growing club reaction of the club was so good at the CrowIcy*s MURRAY POWERS, '19-20-21, has been named membership in Baltimore are JOHN BARTEL, '48, River End Farm that I am afraid they are already faithful captain. Hinderscheid is operating assistant FRANK DeLEO, '48, BERNARD ELL, STEVE looking forvs-ard to next year's picnic, Charlie. to the \ice-prcsident in charge of sales at Firestone GROMBALSKI, FR.\NK KENNEY, and LARRY Ever>'one had a great time. Tire and Rubber Co. He was also the first grand McDERMOTT, '53. —.Michael B. Manzo, '45 knight of Akron South Council, R. of C , when it 
A business meeting was held May 27. 1954, at the 
was formed several years ago. Powers Is mani^ing 
Budweiscr Tap Room. BOBBY WILLIAMS, sta­
editor of the Akron Beacon Journal and a former 
tioned with the USN at Bainbridge, Md., gave a 
president of the Akron Notre Dame Club. 
short informal talk covering the Notre Dame Var­REV. PAUL HAREN, pastor of St. George 
sity-Old Timers game this past spring. Buffalo Church, Warwick, O., who was named cliaplain of Our annual family picnic is scheduled for July the Akron Notre Dame Club on Universal Notre 25, 1954, at Anchors Away—"where the Magothy President DICK THOEN has just returned from Dame Night, died a week later of a heart attack. River meets the Chesapeake Bay." the Club Presidents' conclave at Notre Dame. Dick Father Harcn had been a close friend of STEPHEN Plans arc now being made for our prc-game said he picked up a lot of new Ideas and he re­
J. WOZNIAK, club president, who had died a few Rally for tlic Notre Dame-Naxy football game in turned full of enthusiasm. Among those who at­weeks before. Baltimore this coming Fall. tended the five-year class reunion were: BILL 
JIM MURRAY, our Club President, attended LAWT-ESS, JOE RYAN, JOHN F/\NXING and the Alumni Presidents* Council, June 10-11, at No­TOM KELLY. tre Dame. Tlic Club is looking for^^-ard to a report Co-clialrmcn DICK LEOS and JACK FERRICK 
from Jim on this Council meeting. have added some new twists to our summer stag Baltimore —^James E. Barrett, '40, Secy. picnic In the form of fishing and swimming. July 17 is the date. 
The Annual Uni\*crsal Notre Dame Night, Apiil 26, in Baltimore, was a tremendous success this year. 
Our annual family picnic sponsored by the The aflTair was highlighted by a dinner at the 
Alumni wives was held June 13 at the Buffalo Auto Park Plaza Hotel. FRANKLYN C. HOCHREITER, Boston Club grounds. About 20 families attended. '35, was Toastmaster, and did a splendid job as At a Board of Directors meeting on May fi ex-usual. Main speakers wcrt FR.-\NCIS K. CA\VXEY, The members of the Button Club would like to President JIM CLAUS was appointed chairman of '33, \-ice-presIdent of the Magazine Publishers Asso­thank its former president and sccretar\-, JOHN our second annual Notre Dame Night at the Races ciation. Inc., and Rev. F. THOMAS FITZPAT- man-
BURKE, '29, and RICHARD HERLIHY, '46, for at Buffalo Raceway. JIMMY DUNNIGAN, 
DALLAS—^Father John J. Ca\-anaugh \\-as the guest speaker on UND Night in Dallas. (L. to R.): Lancaster Smith, "Man of the Year"; 
Charles Lohr, sec'y; Dr. Lloyd Bellamy, outgoing pres.; John J. iVloran, pres.; His Excellency, Bishop Thomas K. Gorman of the Dallas-
Ft. Worth Diocese; Fr. Cavanaugh; John Morgan, treas,; and Joe Haggar, first \ice-pres. Dr. Tom Phillips, second vice-prcs., was absent 
when the photo was taken. 
]^gc^ 

K Netrt Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
CONNECTICUT—The four state dubs held a Joint meeting at Cheshire on UND Night. Guests included: Tim Murphy, '24; Toast­master Joseph P. McNamara, '29; Alumni Assoc Pres. James G. McGoIdrick, '39; Fr. Keating; Judge E, Murphy, '22; James Seig­liona, '42; W. Murray, '32; Frank Mumane, '32; Wm. Andres, '18; Francis T. Aheam, '27; Nicholas Lancse, '37. 
ager, has kindly consented to let us run another coming year was drawn up by the officers and di­Gary ^nlI be our Stag Sports Dinner. ERNIE night such as last year's successful affair. rectors of the Club, at a recent meeting. HUFFMAN, '49, and TOM RADIGAN, '38, are 
JACK SHINE ran a theatre part>* at one of tlie TOM CLIFFORD, '49, and JERRY GAINER, in charge of that event. downtown theatres which netted a good profit. At '43, are co-chairmen of the Club's Annual Golf The club calendar reaches a grand climax on this Board meeting- the Directors approved a mo­Slag. It is going to be held on Tuesday, July 27, Easter Monday, April 19, when Universal Notre 
tion to deposit $3000 in the University's Scholar­at the Lake Hills Country Club in St. John, In­Dame Night will be celebrated at Phil Smidt'a ship Fund. Wc now have $5000 deposited at the diana. Golf at noon—Dinner at 7:00 P.M. Restaurant in Whiting. University. Our goal is to set up a permanent JIM PURCELL, '42, and BILL RILEY, '38, —Ernie Hufftnaa, '49, Secy. scholarship fund. %verc appointed co-chairmen of our Communion 
—Paul J. Allwein, M9, Sec>-. Brcaktast. This year's event uill be held on Sun­
day, October 24, at St. Margaret Mary church In 
Hammond. 
Central Illinois 
Calumet JIM MORRISON, '34, and JACK OGREN, '49, 
Club prex>', will head the Christmas Dinner Dance The new officen of the Central Illinois Club are: 
After quite a bit of thought and u-ith a great afTair at Woodmar Country Club tn Hammond. It MICHAEL J. BESSO, president; EDWARD COLE­deal of consideration towards the overall enjoyment ^vill take place Wednesday evening, December 29. MAN, vice-president; EDWARD MAHONEY, sec­of all the membership, the Club Calendar for the Tuesday, Febniar>" 15, at Jackson's Restaurant in retary; and ROBERT KELLEY, treasurer. 
IDAHO—Father Robert Sweeney, C.S.C., of the University of Portland, uas guest speaker on UND Night. Seated, (L. to R.): Joe Hawes, Tom Jones, Phil Shea, Father Sweeney, Joe Nettleton. Standing, (L. to R:): Bob Erkins, Mike Frawiey, Francis Ne!t2e], Alex MacCartin, Jim Carberry and Paul Kohout. 
yotre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 27 
Central New York 
Universal Notre Dame Night, traditioually a "big c^'ent'* here in S>Tacusc, easily won honors as tlic outstanding affair of the year. Vfc celebrated witli a dinner dance, preceded by a cocktail hour and highlighted by an address by Dean LA^\'RENCE BALDINGER, head of the College of Science at Notre Dame. Over cisht>' people, alumni members of the Central New York club and friends, ate roast turkey; listened with enthusiasm to Dean Baldinger's comments on news, progress and needs of Notre Dame; danced until midnight in the North Room of tlic Yates Hotel in downtown Syracuse. 
The dance made histor>* In that it promises to become an annual affair and many thanks go to the hardworking committee: Dr. TOM SNYDER, PHIL KELLEY, Mn. ED KENEFAKE and Mrs. DAN KELLEY. 
At long last the men in the Central New York club have come to realize the importance of the ''woman's toucli"—even in New York affairs. TheyVe had to acknowledge that many of their wives, with­out even trodding the campus, have caught that indefinable *'spirit of Notre Dame"; that the fcmi­nlnc touch js not a bad thing at all when it comes to planning parties, organizing outings or promot­ing projects. 
Bearing this in mind, recently tlie men encour­aged the formation of a ladies* auxiliary- (not yet named) and even underwrote the first luncheon meeting held at Schrafft's last February. The luncheon was attended by twcnt>--five wives, all very devoted to Notre Dame and determined to boost its stock even higher in these parts. At that meeting they elected the following ofTiccrs: MRS. ED KENEFAKE, president; MRS. WILLIAM FOSTER, vice-president: MRS. RICHARD GREENE, treasurer; and MRS. JOHN TERRY, secretary. 
The ladies* auxiliary* plans to hold monthly meet­ings with a mixed Communion breakfast and picnic on the agenda. Their Notre Dame "philanthropy** (when fund-raising projects get under way) will be assistance in tumisUing one of tlic many chapels on campus. At their second luncheon meeting each member brought an article of clothing to be sent to a Notre Dame missionary- priest in Texas. Tlie tremendous success of the recent dinner dance was due largely to tlic work of the auxiliary. Once it gets really rolling, with women at the helm, there's no telling vvhat's in store for the Central New York club! 
—Paul Lonergan 
Cincinnati 
Tlie Club met on Tucs«lay, May II, and the meet­ing was highlighted by the election of officers. The following men were elected: 
JACK BRODBERGER, president; BOB Mca\F . FERTY, Vice-President; JOHN CRONIN, Secre­tary; PAUL SCHAN^ETSCHENAU, Treasun:r. 
Evcr>'one is looking forward to tlie late Summer dance which was so vcr>- successful last year. —John Cronin, Seo*. 
Cleveland 
The board of directors for Uic coming vcar will be composed of ROGER BRE.NNAN, '33, JACK COLLINS, '32. JOHN CURRiW, '31. VINCE DE CRANE, '30, CHUCK ROMER, '49, KEVIN SMrrH, 'S3, BOB STACK, '41, ART WOOD, '52, and JOHN VENABLES, 'Jt. Rev. Joseph W. Buckley u-as named chaplain and CHUCK ROHR was named honorary- presidcnt-
Thc annual summer outing was sclicduled for June 25 at the Rohr farm. The goU parly this year is being handled by co-chairmen ART Mc-BRIDE, '47, and CREIGHTON MILLER, '44, on July 22. Arrangements are being made for the family picnic at Gilmour Academy under the direc­tion of co-chairmen FRED FRIEND, '50, and JOHN MENDENHALL, '50. The picnic is sched­uled for some time in August. 
Connecticut Valley 
A meeting of the Connecticut Valley Club was held on May 4 in West Hartford. Various activi­ties for the future were discussed. BILL GALLO, *52, was named to arrange a golf part>* for tlie 
J8 Notre Dame Alumnus, AuewtSeptember, 1954 

ROCKFORD—Alunini dub directors are (standing), (L. to R.): Robert F. Doyle, '38; Frank Sweeney, '19; Robert J. Doran, '26; and John J. Wahl, '43. Most Rev. Raymond P, Hillinger, Bishop of Rockford, is club chaplain while E. M. "Mike" Lorden, '24 (seated) 
is president. 
summer. TIM • MURPHY, *24, is looking into a possible combined trip with the AVaterbury Club to the Penn game in the fall. \a N TURLEY, *3l. is chairman of a committee which will plan a sum­mer outing for alumni and their families. JOHN LYNCH, '35, is investigating tlie possibility of a lecture in October by a well-known personality. Otlicr actintics under consideration are a Place­ment Committee, a Buffet Supper for Freshmen entering N.D. in the fall, a N'eu-s Letter, Two Dances per year, a Retreat, a Study Club, and a Basketball trip in the winter. In addition, the annual Communion Breakfast, Universal Notre Dame Night celebration and display at the "College Fair" 
will also take place. Club membership cards are being printed up and will be distributed shortly. —Jim Flaherty, Jr., Secy. 
Dallas 
May 3 was a memorable date for the members of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas, On that night, more than 70 alumni paid tribute to Universal Notre Dame Night at the Downtown Club in Dallas. 
Highlight of the evening was an "inside Notre Dame'* addrtsJ presented by FATHER JOHN 
SAN ANTONIO—Rev. Amiand Matthew, O.M.I., club chaplain, presents "Man of the Year" award to Club President Ralph T- Stndis on Universal Notre Dame Night. 
WASHINGTON, D. C—Participants at UND Night dinner included, {L. to R.): Valen­tine B. Deale, incoming pres.; Father Hesburgh; and Dr. Janies M- Corcoran, retiring pres. 
CAVANAUGH, foriHcr president of the University and now director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
A genial qucstion-and-answer period folIo\*'cd with Fatlier Ca\'anaugh handling queries that ranged from food to football. 
Man-oE-thc-Year Award was presented to LAX­CASTER SMITH, football coach at Dallas' Jesuit High School. Smith has gone far beyond the call of duty in his youth program in the community. 
Other prominent guests of a highly successful affair were His Excellency, Bishop Thomas K. Gorman of the Dioccso of Dallas-Fort Worth, and Rt. Rev. William F. 0*Brien, Vicar General of the Pallas-Fort \Vorth area. 
Dr. LLOYD BELL*VMY, outgoing club president, presented newly elected president JOHN J. 

MORAK , '36. Muran in turn introduced the otiier members of the new staff of ofiicers: CHARLES LOHR, secretary; JOHN MORGrVN, treasurer; JOE H.AGGAR, first we^president; and Dr. TOM PHILLIPS, second \ice-prcsidcnt. 
Dayton 
The club is planning a golf day for the latter pari of July, ED STEINER represented the alumni club at the recent President's Council held on the campus. 
Spring weddings include JOHN WHALEN mar­ried ID Jane Nyhan and TOM L^\NDGREN' mar-
KENTUCKY—New club officers include, (L. to R.): Jack Barrett, treas.; J. L. Willen­brink, pres.; and William Palmer, scholarship committee. Absent from photo are, John Bannon, first vice-pres.; Charles Marquet, second vice-prcs.; Paul Maloney, secretary; and Joe Harmon, scholarship committee 
ried to Suzanne Pohlmeyer. 
LOU TRACY and EO DUFFY have recently moved their law practices in the towns of West Carrolton and Vandalia. 
—William MacMillan, Secy. 

Dearborn 
The club's annual picnic was held on Sunday, June 27 in Levagood Park. Beer and pop both were furnished by the club while each family brought their own food. Members and their families and other guests attended the affair. 
Detroit 
Recently. JOHN ANHUT, president. Notre Dame Club of Detroit, was hf>st to the Directors and their wives at the first annual Directors and ^Vivcs Dinner. 
It w-as held in the colonial atmosphere of the Botsford Inn. This setting proWded a very rest­ful atmosphere for a gay affair. 
The guests of honor were Mesdames HARVEY 
F. BROWN, MALCOLM F. KNAUS, C. M. VER­BIEST, EDWARD A. GAGE, LOUIS P. MALONE, DAN HENRY, ARTHUR D. CRONIN, DAN F. BRADLEY, JIM MOTSCHALL, JOHN W. AN­HUT, WILLIAM C. RONEY, JR., ROBERT WTNK, and JERRY SARB. 
This club activity was enjoyed by all with cock­tails, an excellent dinner, and dancing. The event will be placed upon our agenda as a permanent affair. 
Dean Joseph O'Meara spoke to the Notre Dame Law Association's regional meeting in Detroit recently. Justice HARRY F. KELLY was toast­master. The meeting was held at iha Bouford Inn. 
The Detroit Club's annual golf party was held on June 22 with BOB ^VINK and STAN INSLEY serving as co-chairmen. 
Eastern Illinois 
.•\ buLsiness meeting and the banquet for the Eastern Illinois Notre Dame Alumni Club was held on Universal Notre Dame Night with a large number attending. LES FABEY, '46, was elected President, RALPH DALTON, '34, Treasurer, and 
W. R. MORRIS, '49, Secretary. Prindpal speaker for the occasion was Senator JOHN P. MEYER, '43. 
A committee, headed by NOR.\MN THIRION, '41, and including JOHN HELTON, -St, LES H.\HNE, '49, ED LAYDEN, '39, and ERNIE SEDLMAYR, '46, was formed to submit to the Club at its next scheduled meeting an idea for an appropriate gift to the University. 
With speedies and toasts to our retiring ofScers, the meeting was concluded. —W. R. Morris, Secy. 
Eastern Indiana 
Tlic Notre Dome Club of Eastern Indiana met on Tuesday, April 27, 1954, at the Green HHIs Country Club, Munde, Indiana, for its annua] meeting to honor Universal Notre Dame night; and a Rnc steak dinner was had by all, followed by a business session and a showing of the 1953 foot­ball films. 
Retiring officers were: J.4MES HALUGAN, '34, President; BUTCH DeVAULT, '32, Vice-President; EDWARD DIXON, '48, Secretary-Treasurer. 
New officers elected were: BUTCH DeVAULT, '32, President; BILL CRONIN, '31, Vice-President; and JOHN C. HYNES, '39, Secretary-Treasurer. 
Present were the following members; FRED W.ATSON, '23, BUTCH DeVAULT, '32, JOHN C. HYNES, '39, MARIO PIERONI, Law, '40, ED DIXON, '48, BILL CRONIN, '31, BILL CRAIG (invoked Fifth Amendment when asked class year), 
TO.M CANNON, "33, JIM HALUGAN, '34, FR,\NK GARVEY, '22, NORB HART, '35, SKIP MCDONALD, '27, TO.M ADA-MS. '49. 
The following guests were als*" present: John Wallace, Dan XfcDonald, Galand Funk, Bob Car­rigan. Gene Hart, Claude Weeks, and Dr. Guy Owsley. 
Acting as moderators at the meeting wen FATHERS PIQUET and GRACE. —Joim C. Hynes, Secy. 
Notre Dame Atumntu, AasustSepUmber, 1954 19 
< h :"•*)»'• 
mMM 
:2i r fej 

DA'iTON—Leo Condron presents club gifts of $365 for the scholarship fund and $200 for the Notre Danic Foundation to Father Frank Gartland. C.S.C., who was guest speaker on UND Night. 
Erie 
EARL T. O'CONNOR, ilie club's selection for 'Man of tlie Year.' played on Noire Dame's bas­ketball teams and graduated in the class of 1919. He and Mrs. O'Connor arc thtt parents of a son and dauglitcr. Earl is a charter member of the Eric club and lias been active in its program for the past 25 years. 
JACK YOUNG (class of 1951) was married to Miss Maryann Held on April 19. 1954. The cere­mony was performed by Arclibishop John Mark Gannon of the Erie Diocese. There were many Notre Dame cuesis presrjit—JIM JENNINGS of Chicago. Illino'i (class of 1951), JOE CH.\NIGA of Racine, Wisconsin (class of 1951). EUGENE DI BARTOLI, of Pittsbur^h, Pennsylvania (class of 1951), Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH THOREN of White Plains, New York (class of 1951), DON BUSECK, of Fair\iew, PenmvK-ania (class of 1950), and JOE HIPP (di'.s of 1950), Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM GR.\NT (class of 1948), Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DAILEY (class «f 1916). JOHN KELSCH (class of 1954), and Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES WHITMAN (class of 1931)—all from Eric. 
Professor ROBERT ERVIN from Lobund ^vas well received by iho parishioners and guests at the 
BOSTON—"Man of the Year'' in Boston yras John Burke, retiring club president. 
W'ESTERN W.ASHIXGTON—New club oCFicers include, (back row) {L. to R.): Patrick D. Sutherland, trcas.; Donald SuUi\-an, \-ice-pres. Front row, (L. to K.)z Patrick J. Gog-gin, Jr., immediate past pres.; Dr. Charles LaCugna, pres.; and Ben J. Lenoue, secretary. 
.-\nnual Communion Breakfast given at St. George's Parish here in Erie. Tlie Club's annual picnic is slated (tentative date) for Sunday, Jtme. 20. —Thomas J. McCarthy, Secy. 
Evansville 
The Notre Dame Club of Evansville celebrated Universal Notre Dame night with a buffet supper in the Sterling Brewery Rathskeller on the night of April 26. As has been tlic custom in the past, the election of new officers was held. Results of the balloting proved as follows: WILLIAM R. HEN­NESSEY, '41, President: ED M.ATTHEWS, '40. Vice-President: HENRY C. DEWES, '44, Trei«­urer; and DONALD P. HALLER, '43, Secret3r>-. 
The Notre Dame Man-of-the-Year award was pre­sented to JAMES D. McQUAID, of \lncennes, In­diana. A well prepared and presented talk was given by ED KEMPF in presenting Jim with the award. Although Jim McQuaid lives in Vincenncs which requires consideralilc effort on his part to attend meetings, he has been one of our most faith­ful members. ED "BUCK" HALLER, immediate past president, introduced Ed Kempf. The Club's annual summej* picnic will be held on June 17 in Mesker Park. 
—Don Haller, Secy. 

Fort Wayne 
Tlic club's annual summer outing was held on June 24 at Voigt's Retreat. Included on the after­noon program were softball, basketball, votle>'ball, horseshoes, free food and free refreshments. It was a stag affair. 
Fox River Valley 
N'e«- ofliccrs are as follows: RICHARD A. STACK, President; FRED T. HEINRFTZ, Vice-President: PATRICK COUGHLIN, Secretary-Treasurer. Six directors tverc elected and the Con­stitution, as sui;!;e»ted by tlic Alumni Association 
AKRON—Coach John Druzc was featured at club's UND Night dinner. (L. to R.): Frank Steel, toastmastcr; Clarence Kozak; Druze; Fr. Paul Harcn, chaplain; Joseph Kraker, club pres.; Mayor Leo Berg; and Murray Powers. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, AugmtSeptembert 1954 
HARRISBURG—J. A, Reyniers, director of Lobund Institute^ ^vas guest speaker on UND Night. (L. to R.): Louis C O'Brien, pres-; Rcyniers (standing); and Robert ^L Johnston. 
for local clubs was adopted. Tlie Man of the Year Award was given to JI.M ^\SMUTH. —Richard A. Stack, President 
Grand Rapids 
The club met at JOE MOORE's house recently and elected the following officers for tliis year: President, JOSEPH E. MOORE; Vice-President, FRANCIS FALLON; Treasurer, CHARLES W. DUFFY; Secretary, FRANCIS J. GE/\RY. 
Board of Directors: JAMES F. DEL/\NEY, THOMAS C/VMPBELL, ROBERT WOODHOUSE, JOHN I. FLANAGAN and JAMES McDERMOTT. 
Dean McCarthy spoke at the Universal Notre Dame Night meeting held at the BIythcfield Coun­try Club with an attendance of about 200 alumni and guests. 
Plans are under way for a football excursion to the Notre Dame-MSC game October 16. —Fnuids J. Gearj-
Houston 
The club's Man of the Year presentation was made to CLYDE E. BROUSSARD on UND Night. 
Mr. Brouitsard recently was honored by being named a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre by Pope Pius XII. The Rev. John J. Ca\-anaugh, C.S.C, director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was prin­cipal speaker. About 150 people attended the event. 
Hiawathaland 
On Saturday, May I, the Hiawathaland Club held its Universal Notre Dame Night gathering at the Riverside Countr>' Club, Menominee, Michigan. 
In tile absence of our President, JERRY PAVEG­LIO, who met with an accident on his way, the meeting was conducted by HENRY L:\UERMAN. 
Mr. NOR.MAN C. BARTHOLOMEW of Iron Mountain (Ph.B. 1915) was named Notre Dame Afon of the Year In this area. Inasmuch as Mr. Bartholomcv^' graduated in 1915 and has been de­voted to alumni affairs sincu his graduation, it was considered most fitting that the award be pre­sented to him. 
Officers elected for the coining year were: R/\Y­.MOND EBLI, of Escanaba, President; ROBERT SCHMIT, of Escanaba, Vice-President; ROBERT VOELKERf of Stephenson, Secretary-Treasurer. 
Others present at this celebration included: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL a\RRY, .Mr. and .Mrs. ED­WARD DEEROON, Mr. and Mrs. MIKE KHOURY, Mr. and Mrs. PAUL KRUEZ, Mr. and Mrs. JACK KRUEZ, Mr. and Mrs. HENRY UUERAIAN, Mr. and Mrs. FRANK LAUER­MAN, Mr. and Mrs. PAUL MAGINNIS, Dr. and .Mrs. PHILLIP McCANNA, Mr. and Mrs. EM­MANUEL PANCHERI, Mr. and Miz. THOMAS PLOUFF, JOHN PLOUFF, Mr. and Mrs. WIL­LIAM PERRON, Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT SCH.MIT, Dr. and Mis. JOHN SCHROEDER, Mr. and Mrs. PAUL STACK, Mr. and Mrs. DONALD TROTTIER. 

—Robert F. Voelker, Secy.-Treas. 

Idaho 
.Nfembers of the Notre Dame Club of Idaho and their families ^vill once again be tlic guests of Air. and Mrs. JOE NETTLETON, '29, when the club holds its second annua] summer steak fry at Silver City, Idalio's famed ghost town located deep in southwestern Idaho's Owyhee Mountains. FRANCIS NEITZEL, *23, Boise Foundation Coventor, w|U perform the charcoal broiling honors. TTiis year's tumooiC should be a big one because those who missed last year couldn't stop licking their chops when they heard about all of those second helpings of fillets and New York cuts their friends consumed. ^Ve'rc all looking forward to anotlicr great gel­togcther thanks to the Nettletons, with a promise of representation from Eastern Idaho. 
Memphis 
Our new officers elected at our meeting last month arc: JOE SIGNAIGO, '48. President; JERRY FOLEY, '35, Vice-President; CHARLIE SCRAF­FLER, '37, Treasurer. JIM TYRRELL, M9, re­tired as president after a two-year term. 
BILL PODESTA, '48, is a wholesale hardware salesman for Orgill Bros, and is living In Cleve­land, Miss. 
LOU S/\MPSON, '48, is with Miller BretWng Co. and is now making his headquarters in Little Rock, /\rk. 
PAT BURKE, '49, was married to Miss Pat Hoover on Saturday, June 12. 
^fr. P. A. McPHILUPS has recently been named Chairman of the Board of the John GeHier Co., .Memphis, Tenn. Mr. JOHN MONTEDONICO was named as a director. 
JOE SIGNAIGO attended the meeting of olumni club presidents in South Bend. 
I recently enjoyed a visit with ED SCHLAFLY, '49, of St. Louis as he was in Memphis attending a meeting. Ed is the Secretary Treasurer of the Potosi Tic & Timber Co. of St. Louis. 
BILL ^VHITMAN, '37, just moved into his new home on Normandy Road. He is the head of the group department of Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. Bill's family totals three boys and two ^rls. 
—Ed Duke, Secy. 

WASHINGTON, D. C—Arthur J. "Dutch" Bergman (L.) and Val Dcalc at the Club's UND Night dinner. 
i^otre Dame .4/umntu, August-SepUmber, 1954 '21 
Milwaukee 
Our annual observance of Universal Notre Dame 

Night was a success. 
We had 125 in attendance, which included 

alumni, fathers of alumni, and fathers of some of 
the undergraduate students, as well as some dis­
tinguished guests who are friends of Notre Dame. 
Our afTair was held at the Milwaukee .i\thlctic 
Club and TOM KELLY of the clxss of 1918 acted 
as our master of ceremonies. 
We were ver\- fortunate to have F.ATHER TOM "HANDB.VLL" BRE.VN.\N as our main speaker. He gave a very inspiring talk and injected a great deal of spirit into the occasion. TERRY BREN­NAN was the r.-cipient of the "Notre Dame Man of the Year*' award and same was accepted by his brother. JIMMY BRE-NNAN. Our Club Chaplain. FATHER R.\CE, made the presentation. Jimmy in accepting the award in behalf of Terr>-. made the classic remark that Terrv- had adx'ised him he had been head coach at Notre Dame for exactly six weeks and still was undefeated. We received a very pleasant surpri^e by having as a guest I'at O'Brien who happened to be in town on behalf of the Cancer Fund Drive. Pat spoke to our gathering for half an hour, during vvhicli time he gave his famous imitation of Rocknc's talk to the b()ys be­tween halves. We certainly appreciated Pat's pres­ence at our gathering and he contributed much to its .success. 
Our club has re-eiected the present officers (yours truly, R/\Y DUATR and JIM BRF>NN.\N) for the coming year. We arc in the process of reactivating the club and Wf are stressing continuity in our club program. Tliis affair was an encouraging start and we arc hxiking forward to a ver>* successful club year. 
—Wm. George Doucettc, President. 

Monroe 
Xcu' officers for liif Moiirot- Alumni Club are as follows: CHARLES J. GOLDEN, president: WILLIAM J. BRAUNLICH, vice-president: and JEROME .M. LAllOE, secretary-. 
New York City 
The annual spring dance wa> held at tlie Forest Hills Inn. GEORGE OLVA.VY and JOE DFTT. RICH were co-cliaimien. 
Northern California 
A dlnhci"-mecting followed by entertainment was held at the Leopard Cafe recently. Featured on the program \vere football movies. 
Pittsburgh 
The Pittsburgh Club's >uniuier formal was held on June 18 at the Churcliill Valley Country Club. TOM GILLESPIE had charge of reservations. 
Saginaw Valley 
The last meeting of the Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club was a dinner meeting on April 2G, 1954, at the La Chateau, in Bay City, Micliigan. 
Thirty-nine members from Saginaw, Bay City, and Midland were in attendance. 
Following dinner, the meeting wa.>i opened for business. CARL DOOZ.\N, chainnan of the nom­inating committee for the election of officers, then presented the following slate as the choice of his committee: 
ROGER HENDRICK, President; BOB HER­RINGTON, Vice-Presid»nt; JIM BRISBOIS, Sec­retary-Trx-jsurer; HARRY McGEE and BILL HENDRICK, Directors. 
These nominations were seconded bv FRANK KIRCHM/VX. JOE HART moved to" close the nominations. This was seconded by BILL HURLEY. 
The new officers were installed and our new president appointed a Picnic Committee consisting of BILL HURLEY, chairman, BOB BLACK­HURST, VINCE BOYLE and JOE HART. 
—James A. Brisbolsj Secy. 

CHICAGO—^John P. McGoorij-, Jr., (R) receives *Man of the Year award from Joe McCabe, first vice-president. 
San Antonio 
Tlie annual barliecue was held on July 1 in tlie air-conditioned Pearl Corral. The club retreat was held on the weekend of Jidy 9 at St. .Anthony's Seminary. 
St. Joseph Valley 
Tlie club's annual golf dav was staged on June 16 u-ith BILL MEEIIAN and DICK CODY as co-chairmen. The tournament was held on the Notre Dame course followed by an open-air barbecue. 
Schenectady 
Tlic Schenectady Club recently donated $400 to the Notre Dame Foundatioiu New officers for the coming vear arc as follows: Dr. JOHN B. PHIL­LIPS, *37, president; WILLIAM G. LEONARD, *49, vice-president; RAYMOND Z.\SADA, '49, scc­reiar>-; and JOHN EI..SBREE, '51, treasurer. 
Triple Cities 
The Notre Danie Club of the Triple Cities held a Dinner-Dance at tiie Binghamton Country Club on Wednesday, April 28, as its part in tlie celebra­tion of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
REV. LEO SULLIVAN, CS-C, was the princi­pal speaker for this occasion. Father Sullivan haj just returned from India after ser\'ing seven ycari there av a nussion.-ir\- of the Holy Cross Order. At 
WESTERN MASHINGTON—Past Presi­dent P. J. Goggin, Jr., (L) presents "Man of the Year" award to Enunctt Lenlhan. in 
Seattle on UND Night. 

22 Notre Dame Alumntts, AueastSeptember, 1954 
ERIE—(Photo on right) Earl T. O'Connor, M9, was named "Man of the Year'* in Erie. in his student days and served in World War I. (Other photo) Alumni club members attend 
the end of this year Father StUHvan will again return to India to resume his work. 
Jiy>t HOGAN, City Foundation Chairman, gave recognition and presented awards to two of the oldest Xotre Danic supporters of this area. Mrs. John J. Donnelly, Sr., was recognized for her devo­tion to her Church and to her home. \frs. Don­nelly is the mother of John J. Donnelly, Broome Counry Democratic Chairman. .-\n award was also given to Mr. Thomas L. Ilogan for his faithful support of Xotre Dame. 
Prayers were said for the decea*ed members of thq families of Xotre Dame men. ^(usic for llie dancing which followed the dinner was played by XVd Dunham and his band. 
DETROIT—New club officers are, (L. to dent; James 

The local chib has already embarked upon ac­tivities for the coming months with a picnic or clambake being planned for the sumnirx and a Communion Breakfast for the Fall. 
The officers clt-cled for the coming vear are as follows: President, GEORGE H.AINES;' Vice^PrcsJ­dent, DR. RICH.ARD SULLIV.VX; Secretar>-, J. RICH.ARD FRErjE: and Trea«irer, RICH.ARD H.AX.AFIX. 
Tulsa 
The Xotre Dame Chib of TnUa enjoyed a picnic 

 Earl played varsity basketball at Notre Dame  Universal Notre Dame Night meeting in Eric. 
for members, wives, and guests on Wednesday evening, June 23, at the Tulsa Country Club, under the chairmanship of JOSEPH P. MORAN, '50. Tliis is an annual afTair which is always well at­tended and enjoyed by ever>-one. 
Plans are underway to run a special train from Tulsa to Dallas on December 4 for the SMU-ND football game. The special train to a X'otre Dame football game of local interest has, for the last five years, been the club's "Big Event.'* The profit derived from these trips go to the scholarship fund to send local students to the University of X'otre Dame. Chairman of the train committee this year is JOHN G. MADDEX, '48. 
—R. F. Skeehan, Sec>--Treas. 

 R.:) -Arthur D. Cronin. first vice president; William Roncy, treasurer; John Anhut, presi­ Byrne, second vice president; and Edward A. Gage, secretarj*. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus^ AugtutSeptember, 1954 23 
OREGON—^Father Hesburgh was honored at a banquet in Portland given by the Oregon Club. (L. to R.:) Tom Magee, '32, past pres.; Judge Frank J. Lonergan, '01; Portland's mayor, the Honorable Fred L. Peterson; Fr. Hesburgh; Bill Schmitt, '10; Phil Berthiaume, '28; and J. .Arthur Haley, '26, director of public relations at Notre Dame. 
The annual picnic is also to be held in July or brated Notre Dame night u-i:h a cocktail party and Washington, D. C. August. The Navy game smoker will be at the dinner held at the Kanawha Country Club on May Shcraton-Carl ton Hotel on October 29. The club's 13, 1954. The dinner was well attended by local Club President VAL DEALE recontly announced Communion Breakfast Is scheduled for Holy Cross alumni, their wives, and local friends of Notre 
the prognun for this coming year. Events have College on December 5. The holiday season dance Dame. Among the guests were Mr. and Mrs. been scheduled as follows: Informal spring dance, will be held sometime after Christmas and before Charles Loc:htefeld of Huntington, Mr. and Mrs. June 13, at the Sheraton-Carl ton Hotel. TIGHE the students return to school. dc Paulo of Bcckley, Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Kopp, WOODS is chairman of this event. Tlia annual Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Hart, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. retreat was held on June 20 with LARRY MORE 
McCarty, Dr. and Mrs. John Condr>*, Mr. George 
West Virginia 
Cav'anaugh, Mr. Michael Patemo and Mr. John annual golf part^* is scheduled for July or August. The Notre Dame Club of 'West Virginia cele­
and PAT CONWAY serving as co^alrmcn. The Alessandrini. 
EL PASO—Club president William Ford presided on UND Night. Campus representative was John Cackley of the Foundation office. 
24 Notre Dame, Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
HIAWATHALAND—Club members and guests enjoyed an interesting program on Universal Notre Dame night. 
NEW YORK CITY—UND Night guests included, (photo on Left), (L. to R.): Herb Giorgio, "Man of the Year," Pres. Jim Clynes, Sec'y.. Tony Earley; (center photo), (L. to R.): Ed Krausc, Jim Slattery, Jim Hart, Clynes, Bill Fallon, Jerry Coleman; (photo on right), (L. to R.): Jim McGoldrick, Cl>-nes, Fr. Ransing, Bob Hamilton; Giorgio, Greg Rice. 
AitcT the dinner the following officers were elected for the coming yean President, EUGENE RYAN; Vice-President, WILLIA.M .MINGES; Secre­tars'-Treasurer, CORNELIUS DESMOND. 
Wilkes-Barre 
Ne%v officers are as follows: President, JOHN C. BRADV. M.D.; Vice-President, JOSEPH A. Mc-HUGH; Treasurer, GILBERT V. PERRY. 
—Thomas M. Higgins (Immed. Past Pres.) 
Youngstown 
The annual CoDimunion Breakfast cnnimeiiiorat­ing the death of KNUTE K. ROCKNE was held at the Missionaries of the Sacred Heart ^^onas­tery, Logan Road. Vcr>- Rev. Joseph Janssen. ^LS.C., superior, oflTcred the .Mass. VINCENT "PORKY" LAVELLE, '32, still on the mend after a traffic accident 18 montlis ago, made the early moming journey from Leelonia, qualifying once again as the club's most faithful member. ED DeBARTOLO, also *32, was chosen as Youngs­town's outstanding citizen by the West Side Mer­chants for his work in shopping center develop­ment and attracting new industries here. 

SANTA FE—Universal Notre Dajne Night guests included, (L. to R.): (seated): Billy Wood, Sam Adelo, E. K. Francis, Al Ortiz, chairman; (standing), John Cackley, campus representative, John Hillcr, Phil Lucero, Jack Sweeney and Charles Luden. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 19S4 
Brother PAUL POTTER, C.S.C.. '53, died May 12 in the Community Infirmary, Notre Dame, after 
four months illness. Mrs. ANNE O'HARE McCORMICK, a member of the editorial board of the New York Times and 
1944 Laetarc Medalist, died May 29 in New York 
immi^^ i'l^'lu^f"^ 
City. She is surv-ived by her husband and two sisters. 
Engagements 

Miss Catherine Elizabeth Donalier and Dr. CARL A. JULIEN, '47. Miss Christine Hicktnan and THO.MAS J. MC­CARTHY, '49. Miss Joan Doughertv and ROBERT J. BRAD­NER, '50. Miss Patricia Mahoney and ED.MUND G. FAR­RELL, JR., '50. Miss Bemadinc Marjoric Benson and ROBERT J. DONOGHUE, '53. Miss Rosemarv' Carolvn Knorr and JOHN T. ELSON, '53. Miss Kathcrine Charlotte Brien and JOHN \V. STOEPLER, '53. 
Marriages 

Miss Corinne Bisettc and >HCHAEL GRACE, *4I, Notre Dame, Ind. Miss Margaret Elizabeth Bouse and PAUL HURD, '44, Tempe, Ariz., Febmars- 20. Miss Kathcrine Louise Hague and EDWARD SCOTT, '46, Febniarj- 20. Miss Doris Ellen Fa!ie>- and F. WILLIAM DuMONT, '47, Cleveland, Ohio, April 24. Miss Joann Rita Pruss and ADRIAN F. CUM­MINGS, '48, Waterloo, lou-a, June 26. Miss Mary Alycc Grcenan and JAMES L. FER­STEL, '48, Chicago, 111., June 5. Miss Patricia C. Maloney and JAMES P. PAT­TERSON, '48, Chicago, 111., February 27. Miss Patricia Biglcr and JOHN L. ZIEBARTH, '48, Reno, Nevada, March 22. Mbs Mar>- Louise Btrll and RONALD B. BYER­SMITH. '49, Maumec, Ohio, August 22. 1953. Miss Marynell Patricia Curtis and CHARLES J. HERINGER, JR., '49, May 8. Miss Joan Carol Bancroft and ROBERT P. KANE, '49, Clifton, N. J., May 15. Miss Mary Elaine Gallant and DR. CHESTER 
J. MATERNOWSKI, '49, LauTcnce, Mass.. Anril 20. Miss Anthonie Frances Lloyd and FELIX R. 
SUAREZ, '49. New York, N. V. ifiss Patricia Ann Gniewkowskl and DR. WADE 
F. BEUCLER, '50. Notre Dame. Ind.. June 26. Miss Jeanette Jcizakowski and RICHARD Q. O'BRIEN, '50, South Bend, Ind., April 24. Miss Maryellcn Baptist and NATHAN J. CLIF­FORD, '51, Denver, Colo., June 12. Miss Marih-n Zimmer and RICHARD P. MC­CARTHY, '51, June 26. Miss Anna Patricia Hyde and DR. DONALD P. SCHILDER, '51, Medford, Mass., May 22. Miss Maryann Held and JOHN S. YOUNG, '51, Erie, Pa., April 19. Miss Alice T. MegcrdidiolT and EUGENE V. HANNIGAN, '52, Notre Dame, Ind., Februar>- 20. Miss Helen T. Dejmey and JOHN P. LONG, '52, Elizabeth, N. J., May 15. Miss Isabel Ann Servottc and JAMES F. REYN­OLDS, '52, Green Bay, Ws., June 19. Miss Jean Ann Brennan and A. PAUL AN­THONY, '53, River Edge, N. J., May 15. Miss Joan Elizabeth HofTman and ALFRED -C. DcCRANE, JR., '53, Notre Dame, Ind., July 3. Miss Paula Ann Makiclski and RAYMOND J. DITTRICH, '53, Mishawaka, Ind., February 20. Miss Barbara Graham Currey and ALEXANDER LYSOHIR, '53, South Bend, Ind., March 6. Miss Eula Ann Kusencr and JOX C. McKENZIE, '53, Walkerton, Ind., .April 6. Miss Carol Ann Spindler and ARTHUR R. 
MIDILI, '53, SouUi Bend, Ind., May 29. Miss Betli Ann Smithberger and ARTHUR T. 
D. PRIDMORE, JR., '53, LaGrange, 111.. May 29. Miss Barbara Jean Schultz and ROBERT G. PULTE, '53, Notre Dame, Ind., May I. . Miss Jeanne Therese Barrett and LAWRENCE STRALEY, '53, Notre Dame, Ind., May 22. 
3lliss Virginia Ann Johnson and DONALD G. VAN VOOREN, '53, Houston, Texas, May 29. 
^liss Mary Jacqueline Coogan and LAWRENCE 
D. ELLIS, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., June 8. 
^rlss lifary Roy Mahcr and WILLIAM H. STAB­LEIN, '54, Park Ridge, 111. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. JON BELJON, '30, a son, Bemie, June 3. Mr. and .Mrs. ERNEST J. GARGARO, '33, a son, John Timothy, April 20. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. SHERIDAN, JR., '34, a daughter, Sharon Martha, March 12. Mr. and Mrs. CILVRLES BUTLER, '43, a son, Tliomas KeWn, February- 24. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. MEYER, '43, a daughter, Martha Maureen, March 20. Mr. and Mrs. E,\RL R. ENGLERT, '44, a daughter, Deborali Marie, May 27. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT W. SNEE, '45, a son, Robert William, Jr., June 4. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL V. AMES, '47, a daughter, Elizabeth Marie, March 29. Mr. and Mrs. HUGH LACEY, JR., '47, a son, Daniel Patrick, March 15. Mr. and Mrs. DOMINICK C. PALERMINI, '48, a son, Thomas Joseph, April 1. . Mr. and Mrs. PETER TRIXLER, '48, a daugh­ter, Mary Kathcrine, February 20. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. SEPKOSKI, '50, a son, Gregory Brent, April 19. Lt. and Mrs. DAVID D. SMITH, '51, a daugh­ter, Susan Ellen, December 30, 1953. .Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS X. DRISCOLL, '52, a son, Francis, Jr., March II. ". 
Obituary 

ARTHUR S. FUNK, '06, president of the La-Crosse Rubber Mills Company, died May 7. Mr. Funk was also a director of the Batavian National Bank and a director of the LaCrosse Trailer Com­pany. He Is surxived by t^vo brothers and three sisters. 
ALL;\N A. WEISBECKER, HO, of Omaha, Ne­braska, died March 8. 
LOU MALONE, '14, died unexpectedly in De­troit, Mich., on June 23. He was a past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Detroit. Sur­vivors include his widow, a son and a daughter. 
FRANCIS C. KING, *I9, died recently in Rock Island, Illinois. FRANCIS FARRINGTON, '20. died May 29 in South Bend, Ind. PETER O. STEGER, JR., *23, of Oak Park, Illinois, died Mardi 22. 
FRANK THOMAS, '23, head football coach at the University of Alabama for 16 years, died &fay 10 after a long illness. 
JAMES F. SILVER, '2G, Asbury Park, X. J., died recently. 
J. GRIFFIN JAY, '27, West Los Angeles, Calif., died ^fa^cII 21. He is survived by his wife, two 
• sons and a daughter. JEROME G. REIDY, '30, died recently In Cleve­land, Ohio. AL HOW.-VRD, '31, Los Angeles, Calif., died re­cently.' ANDREW G. PATRICK, '31, died May 2 in Stratford, Conn. HARRY F. ^\'UNSCH, *34, South Bend, Indiana, died recently. 
RUSSELL J. O'SHEA, '35, died March 19 in Cairo, III. He was a representative for the Massa­cliusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company. 
Pvt. ^^^LLUM J. LONDO , '53, was killed April 17 when his auto crashed into the rear of a heavily loaded trailer truck on Highway 1, a mile south of Aiken, S. C. Pvt. Londo was stationed with a military police company at Camp Gordon. Surviv­ing are his parents, a sister and his grandfather. 
GEORGE G. O'BRIEN, JR., '53, died August 3 , 1953, in Tucson, Ariz. 
Sympathy 

WILLIA.M C. SCHMITT, '10, on the death of his motlicr. PAUL L. CLARK, "29, on the death of his mother June 10. JOHN J. MCLAUGHLIN, '34, on Uic death of his mother March 14. RICHARD BOWES, '38, on the death of his motlier. BERNARD GHIGLIERI, '44, and Ji\.MES GHIG­LIERI, '51, on the death of their father May 10. 
The Alumni Office was particu­larly pleased with the good at­tendance in all Classes holding Reunions. The local committees cooperated very effectively. But with the Reunion approaching capacity in all the facilities, and being operated on a low, if not below, cost figure, we need more accurate commitments on attend­ance in the years ahead. Chair­men in '55 note! 
Before 1900 
Father JOHN F. McSHANE celebrated his golden jubilee in the Holy Priesthood on June 3 at St. Mary's Church, Indianapolis. Father McShane is chaplain of the Little Sisters of the Poor and his home is 519 East Vermont Street, Indianapolis. Father McShane has written se\"enil books and scn.-cd as pastor of St. Bridget's Church, Indian­apolis, for 45 years. 
1904 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE 

G. A. FARABAUGH, REV. THOMAS P. IRVING, CS.a , THOMAS J. JONES, BYRON V. KAN­ALEY, FRANK J. LONERGAN, JOSEPH POU­LIN. JOHN D. QUINN, STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, A. C. STEPHAN AND HARRY ZOLPER. 
(Ed. Note: Tlie Alumni Office was most happy to note the largest 50-Ycar Class Reunion in our his­tory. The numbers were matched by the individual distinction achieved by., the members, spearheaded by Hon. E. E. L. Hammer, New York Supreme Court Justice, recipient on the preceding Sunday of an LL.D. from Notre Dame. The number ex­ceeded not only previous Classes but the announced intentions of '(H itself, and Class caps were at a premium before registration was half over. The 50-Ycar Gold ^fed3l5 have been sent to all Class members, whether present at the Reunion or not.) 
50 iJEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-11 12 
1905 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE 

W. D. JAMIESON AND D. J. O'CONNOR. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
Charlie Baab, '00, gave closing talk rep­resenting retreatants at recent retreat at St. Joseph's in the Hills, Malvern, Pa. 
FaUicr HENRY M. KE.MPER, well-known Ro­man doctor, scholar and >vritcr, recently retired after 44 years in the priesthood in KeiT\-ilIe, Texas. 
1909 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE REV. RICHARD J. COLLENTINE, C.S.C., AL­BERT F. GUSHURST AND A. T. MERTES. 
^ 5 yFAR REUNION JUNE fO'11'12 
1910 
CLASS REUNION' ATTENDANCE CL.\UDE A. SORG. 
1 A* « Fred L. Steers 
•^1 i 105 So. LaSalle St. Chicap;o 3, Illinois 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE CLARENCE CRIPE, FRED STEERS. 
ALBERT R. (RED) KELLY, Ml, one of Notre Dame's former baseball and football stars, has been retired by the International Har\'estcr Company. He has moved to Zephyr Hills, Florida. 
HARRY F. McDONAGH, '10, one of Chicago's leading realtors for many years, has retired. Harr>' has been hospitalized for several months, but is now at home and progressing favorably. 

KEENE FITZPATRICK, '11, has retired from his San Francisco advertising business and moved his home from Palo Alto to Laguna Bcacli, Cali­fornia. 
JAMES V. CUNNINGHAM, '07. ^vho for many years scr^'cd as Assistant State's Attorney of Cook County, Illinois, in charge of habeas corpus pro­cecdings, has retired. Jim suffered a heart attack and at present Is taking things eas>' in Tucson, Aruona. 
WILLIA.M SCHMIDT, '10, has been doing much travel of late. Last reports placed him in Tokyo. 
IQ14 Paul R. Byrne I T IA O'Shaughnessy Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
CLxVSS REUNION ATTENDANCE BYRON HAYES. 

Ron O'Neill 1914 1350 No. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Indiana 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE JAMES S. DEVLIN, WILLIA.M P. DO\VNING, SLMON T. FARRELL, FRED GUSHURST, EUGENE A. K;\NE, FRANK J. KIRCHMAN, RON O'NEILL, JOSEPH M. WALSH AND M. E. WALTER. 
CHARLES VAUGHAN recently was a featured speaker at the district bar meeting of the Indiana State Bar Association. He discussed trial tactics at a Bar Association meeting in £\'ans\'ille on May 21. 
.ii<Ke^fV*»!Mf-^ 
40 yEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-11-12 

f A f p James E, Sanford lyiD 1429 West Farragut Ave. Chicajco 40, Illinois 
191 A Grover F. Miller "'* ' 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
Rev. Patrick H. Moloney, son of PAT MA­LONEY, was recently ordained to the Holy Priest­hood in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, In­diana. Father Moloney is a member of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross. 
Edward J..McOikcr 1917 2205 Biiarwood Road Ckrelaiid Hi^its 18, OU» 
f 01 0 Gcor)!e E. Bufaert 
•'•O 108 North Main Street ' Sycamore Illinois 
I O l Q Theodore C. Rademaker ' • ' ' Peru Fonndiy Company Peru, Indiana 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE MAURICE CARROLL, LOUIS FINSKE, LEO MULQUEEN AND THEODORE RAOEllIAKEIL 
35 yEARRE UN ION JUNE 10-11-11 

Ralph W. Bergman 1920 1609 No. Jefferson Ave. St. Louis 6, Missouri 
Dan W. Duffy 1921 1101 N.a a Building aeveland 14. Ohio 
Gerald A. Ashe 

1922 39 Cambridge Street 
Rochester 7, N. Y. 

CLARENCE "PAT" MANION is co^iairman along with Gen. Robert E. Wood, former chairman of Sears, Roebuck and Co., to head a new- group known as *'For America." The organization hai an advisory cotmdl of 21, including men and women prominent in business, civic affairs and politics from various states. THOMAS McNICH-OLAS, Class of '29, is administrative officer in charge of the Chicago headquarters. 
Our class was well represented at the Twin Cities Universal Notre -Dame Night meeting held in April at the Town and Cotmtry Club of St. Paul, Miimesota. In attendance were: PAUL and GEORGE McDERMOTT, DANNY COUGHLIN 
CINCINNATI—John C. Cottingham (left) receives 'Man of the Year" award from Club President John W. Fead. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSy August-September, 1954 27 
man to leave this world—FRANK THOMAS—so we note here only that this makes four deaths in three months. The ranks will thin out faster from now on. Hold on to the old friends you ha\'c. To­morrow may be too late. 
Memo: If the young Laucrman who cashed a check in South Bend not long ago is the son of HENRY LAUERMAN of Menominee, this office would like to know more about it from his father (or uncle?) who has not answered his '23 ques­
tionnaire. (Tlic check was good.) News Item: Letter-writing JACK NORTON has not written lately. Questionnaire-answering E. MERLIN ROLWING, long accustomed to filling insurance forms, answered in exact detail. I now have ever^'thing but his fingerprints. Merlin re­ported social Wsits to CORNIE PFEIFFER and BEN RUSSELL in Louisville, and with REYN­OLDS MEDART in St. Louis. FREDERICK A. STEELE, Prof. Froning's chem­istry protege, writes from his home at 744 E. Ne\'ada Ave., St. Paul, Minn., that after battling multiple sclerosis for many yean he had to retire two years ago. He gets around the house and is able to ans%*'er your correspondence. Letters from classmates arc welcome. Fred worked until his re­tirement for the Scotch Tape people in Minneapolis. Write to him. DUKE HODLER was recently appointed Post­master of Portland. Oregon, by President Eisen­
JOLIET—UND Night committee included, L. to R.: Walter Voitik, tickets; John Goonen, hower. publicity; and Phil Cant^vell, entertainment. Ed Krause was principal speaker. Obituary item overlooked until now: PETER O. 
STEGER, class member for two years, died late in March in Oak Park, Illinois. 
- l^onias C.S.C. Main speaker of the evening was DEAN MCCAR­N.D. teams with GEORGE GIPP. 
of Waseca, DR. RALPH LEE and your secretary-. guard on offense, and roving center on defense, on 1 QOA ^^^ A. Kelly, 
•'• ^ Cavanau^h Hall 
THY of the College of Commerce at Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana who gave a magnificent talk wherein he nicely 
109 9 Louis V, Bniggner 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE serious reasons for some of the present-day eco­ITAO 2165 Riverside Drive THOMAS BARBER, GEORGE BALDUS, RAY­
balanced hts time between campus nostalgia and 

nomic troubles. South Bend, Indiana MOND BRADY, FRANK CAHILL, EDWARD CANTWELL, ALBERT CASTELLINI, IRVING 
Hearty congratulaUons to FATHER GEORGE B. CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE 
CAREY, MAURICE CLAUSEN, THOMAS 
FISCHER, C.S.C., of the Holy Cross Mission Band, WALTER DEGREE AND JOHN NORTON. Eastern Province, who celebrated his 25th Anni­
COOKE, WILLIAM CROOK, E. NEWELL De-GURSE, JOSEPH DESMOND, OWEN DESMOND, 
versary of Ordination to the Holy Priesthood Bit by bit, by means of a letter here and an 
THOMAS DONOVAN, W. J. DRENNAN, LEVI 
on June 24. inquiry there, the tangled mat of missing names, 
GENIESSE, JOSEPH GREEN, LEO HERINGER, 
TOMMY McCABE, son of THO.MAS SPENCER missing addresses and misinformation of classmates 
JOHN HICKEY, EARLE HURLEY. JAMES D. 
McCABE, was graduated in Mechanical Engineering is being unravelled by your Secretary in his spare 
HURLEY, J. FARRELL JOHNSTON, REV. 
at N J), in June. moments. The hardest part of the job, as former 
THOMAS A. KELLY, CJS.C, PAUL KENNEDY, 
DAN YOUNG' S present address is: c/o Foley secretary- PAUL CASTNER has already testified, 
ALVIN KOEHLER, RAYMOND LANG, MI­
Constructors of Minnesota, P.O. Box 82, Aurora, is to get addressees on our list to answer their mail. 
CHAEL LORDEN, RALPH AL McDONALD, 
Minnesota. If these Class notes should come to the attention 
JOHN McGOORTY, JOSEPH McKEOWN. WIL­
MAURICE "CLIPPER" SMITH who coached of any man of '23 who has not received or has 
LIAM MAHER, EUGENE MAYL, JAMES MEE-
football at Santa Clara, Villanova and Boston, not answered my letters or questionnaires, may is now Director of Public Relations of Station they act as a gentle reminder to answer your 
HAN,'RICHARD MILLER, T. CLIFFORD NOO­NAN, WALTER NOVESKY, JOHN PFTRICH, 
WTCN (TV) Minneapolis, Minn., and also is mail!!!! If the hardy remnants of the *23 Class doing sports broadcasting on T\'' and radio. Prior are to be reassembled in 1958, we need an up-to-
FRANK PIEKARSKI, BEN PISER, ROBERT to coming east, the Clipper was doing ambassa­date intelligence dirision. 
RINK, FRANK SABINE, T. JOSEPH SHEEHAN, dorial work for two years for the Los Angeles Rams Other columns of the Alumnus no doubt are JAMES I. SMITH, HARRY STILLMAN, ED­pro football team. The Clipper w-as regular right carrying an adequate obituary of the latest '23 WARD TIGHE, HENRY TRENKLE AND 
W. HAROLD ^VELCH. 

ROCKFORD—^James H. Dunn was named "Man of the Year." (L. to R.): Dunn, Thomas 
Keegan, Bishop Hillinger, E. M. "Mike" Lorden. 
3 0 yEAR REUNION JUNE 10-ll't^ 

lO^ C John P. Hurley I TZD 1218 City Park Avenue Toledo, Ohio 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE GIL SCHAEFER. 

Rev. Mathias Mcngur was ordained to the priest­hood ill Rome, Italy, on April 17. Father Xfcnger is the nephew of JOSEPH A. MENGER. 
109A J"''" J-^y^ I TZO 2434 Greenteaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE GERRY MORSCHES. 
JOSEPH A. NAVARRE, insurance commissioner for the State of Micliigan, was host commtssioner at the 83th Annual Convention of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners held in Detroit on June 7-11. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
f 049 Steve Ronay ITZ / 2829 Appletree Lme South Bold, Indaina 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE JOHN BRENNAN AND MIKE McDERMOTT. 
CORNELIUS F. REGAN, JR., 40 West Erie Street, Albany, New York, has a son C. F. Regan, III, at State Teachers College in that dty. 
Louis F. Buckley 
1928 1253 North Central Ave 
Chicago 51, Illinois 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE 
j . P. CANNY. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN AND LOUIS BUCKLEY. 
The death of STEPHEN WOZNIAK cauic as a shock since wc all enjoyed being uith him a year ago at the reunion. He died in Akron, Ohio, on April 16 after a long illness. Steve practiced law in Akron and was President of the Akron Notre Dame Club and the Polish-Aniencan Citizens' Club at the time of his death. He studied in 1931 at the University of Jagilloniam in Krakow, Poland. On his return from Europe* Steve was named assistant trounty prosecuting attorney* and later he was promoted to first assistant prosecutor. Steve and his brother, Joe, formed a law partnership and were active in Democratic party politics. He is surx-iv-cd by his wife, Mary; four daughters, Mary Jcxm, student at St. Joseph College, Cincinnati; Marjorie, student at Mary Grove College, Detroit; Dorothy and Ellen who arc in high school In Akron. A ^fass was said for Steve, at the request of the Class of '28, by FATHER MARK FITZ­GERALD, C.S.C., at Notre Dame. Although we have had four classmates die since our reunion, TOM GRIFFIN, GEORGE O'BRIEN, HERB SCHULZ and BILL DOWNEY, Steve is the first one of the class who attended the reunion to die. BILL CRONIN is now a public relations con­sultant with. Coates and McCormick, Inc., 292 Madison Avenue in New York. You will recall the outstanding job Bill did last year as chairman 
of the committee which broke all records on silver anniversary reunion class gifts. Bill has been mth the Comcrford Theatres in New York for a num­ber of years since he left Washington where he served as Adnunistrative Assistant to the Postmas­ter General. Bill has five children ranging in age from 5 to 22. His oldest son, Vaughn, was grad­uated from the Naval Academy this year. 
I am indebted to LARRY CULLINEY for a newspaper clipping from Bridgeport, Connecticut, announcing that Superior Court Judge JOHN T. CULLINAN removed himself as a possible Demo-
f:ratic gubernatorial nominee In Connecticut. Judge Cullinan had been prominently mentioned as a possible candidate. 
JOE LANGTON has resigned from Phillips Petroleiun Company in St. Louis to return to his home town of Peoria where he Is Vice-President and Treasurer of Cummings & Emenon, 424 South Washington Street. This firm Is a distributor of auto parts and supplies. Joe has three children, ages 10 to 14. I hope to see Joe more often now that he is back In Illinois. 
We enjoyed a *28 get-together at the home of JIM ALLEN In April which included BILL MUR­PHY, BILL D^VYER, BERT KORZON. BILL KEARNEY, HOWIE PHALIN, RAY MULLIGAN, ED McKEOWN and FRANK CREADON. A show­ing of the 192S Class Reunion film by FRANK CREADON w-as very much appreciated. The talent scouts may be interested in knowing that several of the wives present inquired as to the identity of TO.M LAVELLE and FR.VNK QUINN. \Ve aUo had a shotring of the film at Frank Creadon's home for LOU NORMAN and his wUc while Lou was in Chicago arranging for the "G.M. Mo­torama of 1954." Lou invited us to a preview of the Motorama. 
Since I teach a graduate class at Loyola Univer­sity tivo nights a week, I was unable to join the '28 men attending the Universal N.D. Night party in Chicago. BILL DWYER, %vho prepared and sent the famous valentine reunion mailing, reported that the following '28 men w*ere present: ED RAFTER, JIM ALLAN, ED McKEOWN, HOWIE PHALIN, FRANK CREADON, BILL KEARNEY, ED BRENNAN, BERNIE KORZON, DAVE SMITH, DICK PHALIN, RAY MULLIGAN, JUDGE JOHN LYONS and BILL D^VYER. 
TOM MAHON of St. Paul was recently elected 

Notre Dame alumni on Naval duty included: (seated) Cdr. Larry **Moon" Mullins and Lt. Jerry Finneran; (standing) Cdr. Bill Hawkes and Lt. Robert Lee. 
state deputy of the Minnesota Knights of Columbus. Cornell Aeronautical Laboratories In Buffalo. His Tom, who was financial secretary* of the N.D. son, age 20, is now In the Third Marine Division chap'.er of the K. of C. in 1927, has been active in Japan. Another son expects to enter civil en^­In that work for a number of years in St. Paul, neerlng at Notre Dame in ' September. You will having scr\'cd as District Deputy in recent years. remember that Gus and his wife brought }klr$. Tom has two boys and is special agent for the John McMahon and her t^vo sons to the reunion so Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company. the boys could serve the Mass for deceased '28 men. 
I saw HxWES MURPHY on a recent visit to JIM CONMEY hai moved from Albany, New Moline ^v•herc he practices law. Hayes has served York, to Rochester where he lives at 335 Cobbs as Assistant State Attorney* and Assistant Attorney Hill Dri\-e. He Is with the Tobin Packing Com­General of the State of Illinois. He has three pany In Rochester. Jim attended the Universal children \*arying In age from 8 to 18. His oldest Notre Dame night there and saw CLARK WAL­son is a freshman at Notre Dame. I also had the LACE and JOE GERAGHTY. Joe, according to opportunity to stop and see AL GURY in Peoria Jim's report, has taken a very active part in the where he operates a tent and awning company and Rochester club and was named *'Man of the Year" has an ageno' for Miller's beer. Al has one iihild, last year. Joe's daughter entered the Convent of three years old. AI regretted hb inability to attend Mercy nuns In 1953. Also, Jim saw PHIL O'CON­the reunion last year but promises to be on hand 
NOR who is still a bachelor and with the Eastman In 1938. 
Kodak Company. 
GUS JENKINS reports that the talk given at While speaking of Rochester, I obtained some the Buffalo Universal Notre Dame night party by additional news of other '28 men there. JOE ^\TLL1AM LA\VLESS was based entirely on the GERAGHTY informed me that DON CORBETT report of the survey of the Class of 1928 Issued by is practicing law there and has five children. KEN­us last year. Gus said that he, FRANK CONNORS NETH PO^VER, who was with our class from 1924 
and MARTY RYAN sat together at the affair and to 1927, Is deputy county clerk and deputy Supreme enjoyed the many references to the Notre Dame 
Court clerk In Rochester. Kenneth has three sons, Class of 1928. Gus, who covers considerable terri­
ages 12 to 24. tory as Vice President of sales for the Dunn Weld­I noted in an announcement describing a June ing Co, Inc., passed along several items of news, conference on alcohol studies at the Unlvezsity of ART SLAVIN has moved from Milwaukee to 223 Wisconsin that GERALD McGILL was a member 
Main Street, Elbridgc, New York, where he is in of the staff. Gerald directs the Bureau of Alcohol the nursery buslnc5s. DICK GREENE won a free Studies, Division of Mental Hygiene, AVisconsin trip from Syracuse to the Penn game for himself 
State Department of Public Welfare. He partlo­and his wife. Gus met FR/\NK DONOVAN at the 
pated In the Yale Summer School of Alcohol Studies ^farquette basketball game last \%intcr and acciden­in 1950 was of National
 and chairman the States tally met ALLAN JOHNSON of Niles when they 
Conference on Alcoholism in 1953. He established and directed the .Adult Guidance Alcoholic CUnIc were both stopping at the same hotel in Detroit. 
in Superior, 'Wisconsin. Gerald lives In Madlsoo Allan travels for the Piatt Luggage Company. He and has three children, ages 8 to 17 years. 
has two daughters, one of v%-hom is at Michigan State College. Gus has four children. His oldest MIKE HOGAN is running a close second to daughter Is married and a mathematician at the JOHN LEITZINGER as Mike recently announced 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1954 29 
the birth of his fifth daughter and tenth child. There are nine children living. Mike's oldest son is now a medical student at Indiana Univcrsit>* after receiving his B.S. degree last year at Purdue. He also has a son in ser\-ice in Alaska. Mike is a pharmacist with the Medical Arts Supply Company in Fort Wav-ne, Indiana. He mentioned that he sees \MLLARD ^VAGNER regidarly. BILL PLU­CHEL stopped to see Mike recently. Bill is freight traiSc agent for nVA. He assured Mike that we <an bank on him for the 30-ycar reunion. 
RUSSELL W. COLLINS is an engineer with the Bell Telephone Labs in New York City. He has two children, ages 10 and 14. Russ, who was from Holland, Michigan, received his M.S. degree from the University of Michigan after IcaWng Xotrc Dame. 
TOM COLLINS, who is \*ilh the Sagamore Mfg. 

Co. in Fall River, MassachusetU, reports that he 
sees WALT GOFF who has four children, ANDV 
KANE, one child and FRANK KELLY, who has 
seven children. TOM COLLINS was married in 
1951. Are tliere any others who married later than 

this? LARRY CULLINEY ako mentioned that he 
met FRANK KELLY recently in Pittsficld, Massa­
chusetts. Larry is an examiner for the Federal De­
posit Insurance Corporation and lives in New 
Haven, Connecticut. He has four children, ages 
nine months to 12 years. BERNIE GARBER and 
his wife were godparents last fall for the baby. 
GEORGE COVERT was so enthusiastic over our 

reunion last year that he is arranging a similar 
get-together for the Alumni from Cathedral High 
School in Toledo. George is with the DeVilbess 
Manufacturing Company there. His wife died 
in 1936. 
I have reports on the three CuHcns in our class. JIM CULLEN is practicing law in Sayre, Pennsyl­vania. He has three children, ages 3 to 13. JOHN CULLEN, who is located in Buffalo, is with the Industrial Appraisal Company as manager for ivcst­cm N'e^v York. He has four children, ages 5 to 17. MATT CULLEN is practicing law in Chicago and has three children, ages 3 to 10. 
TERRY DONAHUE should be added to the list of classmates with Ph.D.'s referred to in the last issue. Tcrrj* received his M..\. from Ohio State and his Ed.D. from Columbia. He is now Superin­tendent of Schools in Eastchestcr, New York. He has three children and two grandchildren. 
FRANK GALARDY, Vice-President and General 

Manager of the Automatic Telephone Services, Inc., 
of New York, sent me a clipping from the April 
30, 1954 New York Herald Tribune reporting a 
meeting of transit experts. LARRY ^\^NGERTER, 
President of the San Antonio Transit Company and 
President of the American Transit Company, w*as 
quoted as advocating the restriction of the use of 
automobiles in American cities. 
FATHER NORMAN JOHNSON, C.S.C., is now an Air Force Nfajor and Chaplain. His address is Box 321. APO 953, c/o Postmaster San Francisco, California. Father Norman w^ Editor of the Bengalese when he was recalled to the Air Force in 1952. 
ED McCORMICK is a copy writer with the Ted Bates advertising agcnc>* in New York Cit\-. Ed is another who should be added to our list of bachelors. 
JIM J. REILLY is in general farming and live­

stock production in Spalding, Nebraska. He has 
eight children, including twin boys. 
GERALD SHEIBLEY has a son attending Our Lady of Lake Seminary, Lake W'awasee, Syracuse, Indiana. Gerald is packaging technologist and Di­rector of the packaging laborator>-, Rossford Ord­nance Depot in Toledo. He has two other cliildrcn. 
JOHN WALLACE is in the real estate loan busi­

ness in Beverly Hills, California. Two of John's 
three daughters are nuns, Sister Jean Vianney of 
the Holy Cross Order and Sister John Baptist of 
the Immaculate Heart Order. 
JOHN J. WINGERTER of Spring Lake, New Jersey, is now Vice-President and General Manager of Louis de Rochcmont Associates, Inc. of New York Cit>', producers of motion pictures. 
FRANK DONOVAN'S son, Dick, was married on Frank's silver wedding anniversary on June 5 in Muskegon. Dick, who is Bill Jones' godson, was graduated from Notre Dame in 1952 and is now assistant office manager at Hooker Chemical in Nfontague, Michigan. Frank, as you know, is President and General Manager of the Kaydon Engineering Corporation in Muskegon. 
Other *28 men celebrating their silver wedding anniversary this year include RALPH NOLAN, AUGIE GRAMS, VINCE PENOTE, FRED RUIZ and ART CANTY. The follouing men celebrated 
COLUMBUS—John Fontana (right) accepts "Man of the Year" award from Club President John Igoc. 
their silver wedding anniversaries last year: JOHN CRONIN (Naval Academy); AUKE HOG.AN (In­L.ARSEN. BILL McGEE, ED McCLARNON and diana Uni\-crsity, Medical); RALPH NOLAN ED QUL\N. Those married In 1927 include KEN-(Dartmouth); EUGENE O'BRIEN (St. John's Uni­NETH POWER, JOHN VOEDISCH and TER­versity); KENNETH POWER (University of Ro­ENCE DONAHUE. Please let me know of others chester); GEORGE BEAMER (Indiana University). who should be included in these groups. Those with daughters at college include the fol­
The lists of classmates with children in college lowing: JOHN DA\nS and JOHN FREDERICK which appeared in the last Alumnus should be sup­(St. Marj-'s, Notre Dame); FRANK DONOVAN plemented as follou-s: Those with sons include BILL (Barai); BILL DO^\'DALL (Rosar>-); JOE HIL-
Prof. Janies P. Danehy, '33, of the Notre Dame faculty, lectured to students in Holy Cross Central School of Nursing, South Bend, Ind. (L. to R.:) Peggy Danehy (daughter of James P.), Margaret Wack, (daughter of ND Professor George Wack, '23), Carol Rcy-niers (daughter of Prof. James A. Reyniers, '30, of Lobund), and MaribcU Wheatley. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
GER (Mao-ann at Immaculata); DAVID SOLO­
MIN (Georgetown); and JOHN WALLACE (Im­
maculate Heart College). 
The list oE single members oE the class which ap­
peared in the last issue of the Alumnus should 
be supplemented by adding the following: ED 
BRENNAN, ED McCORMICK. ED RAFTER, 
JIM PARKER and FRED PFORTNER. Who are 
the others who should bo added to these lists? 
I was on the program at the Annual Convention 
of tlic International Association of Personnel in Em­
ployment Security in Ashevtlle, North Carolina, in 
June. I called JOE MORRISSEY and BOTTS 
CROAVLEY in Cincinnati on my way to the con­
vention. Joe, ^*ho is manager of the King Matm­
facturing Company, recently completed his term as 
a member of the K.D. Alumni Board of Directors. 
Joe has four children, ages 14 to 21. BOTTS 
CRO\VLEY is with the MacCrcgor Company as 
head of the pro baseball division in sales promotion. 
Botts has a daughter 10 years of age. He men­
tioned that he visited CHRISTIE FL.AN.AGAN re­
cently In Port Arthur, Texas. 
My attendance at an Institute on Social Security at tho University of Illinois In June gave me an opportunity to \Tsit VINCE WALSH, his wife, son and daughter In. Monticcllo, Illinois. Vince keeps busy as a farmer, farm manager, vice-president and fiirector of the local banks and trustee and treasurer of tho local hospital. You will remember that Vince was responsible for many of the movies taken at the reunion which are now available for showing. BOB HAMILTON and ART DENCHFIELD were the first to borrow these films. 
It was a pleasure to have tho opportunity to at­tend the silver anniversar>' reunion of the Class of 1929. There were several present whom we claim as members of our class including VINCE?«T CAR­NEY, BILL BROUTJ, HENRY HASLEY, FRAN­CIS MEYER, JUDGE JOHN LYONS and JOE McNAMARA. I also met three other '28 men at the rcumon. CHRISTIE FLANAGAN, PAT CANNY and ED QUIN'N. Ed was wearing his '28 tie from lost year. Christie has a daughter who was graduated from St. Mary's this year. JOE McNfVMARA mentioned how much he appreciated the 1928 Class survey last year and how helpful it has been to him In making speeches before Notre Dame groups in Connecticut. 
FATHER ANDY MULRE^VN*Y, C.S.C., said a 
Mass for the deceased members of the Class of 
'28 and for the IKing members of our class early 
in June. 
Congratulations to JOHN FON*T/\NA on his re­
ceipt of the Columbus Club award of "Man of the 
Year." I was also pleased to note that JOHN 
MURPHY of our class succeeds JOHN IGOE as 
President of the Columbus Club. JOE KINN&VRY 
is Trustee of the Columbus Club. 

BERNIE GARBER, who did such an outstand­ing job last year as Treasurer and Chairman of the reunion publicity committee, sent me a clipping from the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph carrying JOE BREIG's picture. Joe was awarded an honorary doctor of laws degree by St. Vincent College. Joe, associate editor of the Cleveland Universe Bulletin, was a writer \%ith the Sun-Telegraph for ten years. He Is also associate editor of the Family Digest and Our Lady's Digest and contributing editor of the Ave Maria. Joe is author of five books, God in Our Home; My Pants When I Die, A Halo for Father, The Dexil You Say, and Under My Hat. Joe has five children, ages 5 to 20. Bernie also ad­vised that Judge JOHN CULLIN^VN received an honorarv* doctor of law degree at Duquesne Univer­sity where he gave the commencement address. Congratulations, Joe and John. Please let me know If there arc other '28 men who have received honorar>- degrees. 
Here's a question raised by BERNIE GARBER for the law>*ers of our class: A friend of Bernie's who Is a judge In a higher Jersey court tells him that one member of the class of '28 at ND whose name will live on after the rest of us are forgotten is JOHN AVINBERRY. Why? Because of the fa­mous WInbcrry Case! Will one of our law>-ers please cxplaia this fame to the rest of us? 
Z want to give you a round-up report on a number of Chicago classmates about whom we have not had news in some time. The business connec­tions of the following are indicated In parenthesis: LIONEL AUSTIN (Citau'on Box & Paper Co.), FRANK BRANSON (Asst. to Pres. National Con­fectioners' Assn.), JOHN P. CONSIDINE (Bunn Packaging Machinery Co.), ^WTHONY DISTE­FANO (Chicago Park District), BILL GOELITZ (Plumbing and Heating DI\-ision, Sears Roebuck & Co.), ALVIN HANS (Asst. Manager of Safety, 
FOX KTVEK VALLEY—Janics Asmuth received the "Man of the Year" award on UND Night in Appleton, Wis. (L. to R.): Richard Stack, newly-elected president, Asmuth and Gus Ztiehlke, retiring president. 
Standard Oil Co.), BOB RIGNEY (Chicago Show-SEPH S. SULLIVAN (Counsellor, Amalgamated Printing Co.), MON*TY TENNES (Factory Man­Labor Life Insurance Co.). ager, Shafer Bearing Division, Chain Belt Co., GEORGE BEAMER reports that he had a note 
Mfrs. of Roller Bearings), AHKE McGEOGHE-from CHARLES HASKELL from Paris. It is also GAN (Asst. Deputy Commissioner, Bureau of the my understanding that CYP SPORL was in Europe Public Debt, U. S. Treasur>), JOHN J. MA-in April. 
HONEY (Yardman, Chicago Belt Railroad), JO­This winds up another newsy column, thanks to 
HOUSTON—Clyde E. Broussard was named "Man of the Year" on UND Night (L. to R.): Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., guest speaker, Mr. Broussard and Club President Paul J. Doyle, Jr. 
Noitt Damt MmmiiMt, Aatuit-StpUmbtr, 19S4 31 
those who sent me dippings and news items. If you are one of the few who has not sent me the biographical material I requested, please do so at once, so I can continue to have a lengthy '28 column for you. 
From ED QUINN: 
"Although WILLARD WAGNER didn't get out to the reunion this year, I see him occasionally in town, since he lives only a few blocks away on McKinley Avenue. Wag, a manufacturer's agent, is in training now for our 30th reunion, which is not TOO far away, and hopes to be in good condition by that time. 
"It was my pleasure to be a guest of FRANK DONOVAN and his wife at a Morris Inn luncheon in March of this year, Frank, a fairly frequent visitor to the campus, is President of the Kaydon Engineering Company, Mtiskcgon, Michigan. Frank's youngest son, Pat, has just finished his first year at Notre Dame. 
"GEORGE SCHEUER, who is a member of the South Bend Tribune staff, combined business and pleastue the second week in June when he attended the Aviation Writers' Conference in Miami, Flor­ida. George reported back some vcn' interesting inforrnation about the latest dc^-elopments in ax-ia­tion to his paper. 
"I had a letter from our class treasurer, JOHN SHEEDY, who wanted me to know that his son is also enrolled at Notre Dame. Jack will be a sophomore nest year in the College of Arts and Let­ters, the Dean of which College is Rev. Charles E. Shecdy. C.S.C., John's brother and Jack's uncle. Sorry I overlooked your son, John. It was entirely unintentional. 
"Our most amiable and capable class secretary, LOU BUCKLEY, was an innted guest of the Class, of '29 at their 25th reunion. Lou came down from Chicago well armed with notebook and pencil to take back with him some good ideas for our 30th reunion, vpon which he is already hard at work. My brief visit with Lou in front of the dining hall after the Alumni banquet was a very enjoy­able one. Lou would like all his classmates to know that he \*ery capably represented the Class of '28, and that he will soon be calling upon j-ou for your 30th reunion ideas. 
"I had the opportunity to exchange a few pleas­antrits with BILL BROWN, HENRV HASLEY and JOHN McNAMARA after the banquet, also. As you w^l no doubt recall, they all went on for a law degree, which they obtained in 1929. So their allegiances are, of necessity, divided between '28 and *29, and they make the roost of the ideal cir­cumstance of two consecutive reunions in two years. Bill, originally from Wisconsin, is now practicing law in Illinois; Heiuy is still in Fort Wayne; and John, who hailed from BOB KIRBY's home town of Indianapolis evidently wanted to get away from Hoosierdom. He is now practicing in Connecticut. 
"I get to see Father ROBERT WOODWARD, C.S.C., frequently. He is Director of the Office of IkfUitary Information under the Golden Dome, and is kept very busy with his assignment. 
"RON RICH and ANDY BOYLE get over to the Huddle or thq Main Building once in a while, at which times I get to pass the time of day with them. Both arc long established members of the Notre Dame teaching staff." 
JOSEPH J. LANGTON Is living in Peoria and is vice-president of Cummings and Emerson Distrib­utors In that dty. His address is 424 South Washington Street. 
1090 Do»3ld J. Plunkctt 
' •" ' Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE ROBERT N. ALT, RAYMOND J. ANGSTEN, ROBERT S. BAILEY, HAROLD A. BAIR, JO­SEPH T. HARNETT, REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.C., PAUL C BARTHOLOMEIV, GEORGE N. BEAMER, G. R. BILL, GEORGE A. BRAUTI­GAM, RAYMOND K. BREEN, L. L. BRENNEL, JOHN R. BROWN, W7LLIA.M E. BROWN, PAUL 
A. BRYSSELBOUT, FRANCIS J. BUCKLEY, CLYDE R. BUNKER, JOHN T. BURKE, HE.N'Ry 
L. BURNS, GERALD A. BUSCH, DAVID L. CAMPBELL, VINCE CARNEY, LAWRENCE CARTON, LOUIS S. CLEMENTS, JOHN F. CO­LANGELO, SAM A. COLARUSSO, IRV COR­CORAN, WILLIAM F. CRAIG, WILLARD E. CROTTY, GERALD J. CROWLEY, JAMES M. CURRY, FRANCIS J. GUSHING, JOHN H. CUSHMAN, GEORGE W. DAPSON, ORSON D. DAUSMAN, EDMOND C. DeBAENE, WILLIAM 
DICK, JAMES E. OIGAN, FRANKLVN E. DOAN, WILLIAM J. DONELAN, JR.. EDWARD F. DONOHOE, JOHN W. DORGAN, FRANK DRISCOLL, STEVE DURBIN, JOHN ELDER, C. VICTOR ESSROGER, DR. THOAfAS FERRITER, JAMES L. FrrZPATRICK, FRANCIS M. FLYNN, 
W. C. FORTIER, ALBERT T. FRANTZ, JOSEPH FRIEL, EDWARD A. GAGE, EUGENE J. GAL­DABINI, EDMUND C GARRFTY, FLOYD A. GENIN, WALTER V. GILDEA, TED J. GRIFFIN, GAYLORD P. HAAS, WALTER V. HART, JO­SEPH P. HARTNETT, JR., RICHARD E. HAUGH, FRANK J. HAVEUCK, KENNETH I. HECK, C. WILLIA.M HEINE.MAN, DR. PHILIP a HE.MMING, FRANK G. HEUPEL, LY.MAN 
H. HILL, JR., JOHN V. HINKEL, PAUL D. HOLAHAN, FRANK HURLEY, CLARENCE T. JANS, EVERETT A. JEWELL, FRANCIS JONES, THO.M^tS J. JORDE.N", JR., CHARLES H. KAI­SER, JOHN T. KEARNS, JAMES E. KEATING, JAMES P. KENNEDY, MARCELLUS C. KIRCH­NER, KENNETH J. KONOP, ANTHONY KO­PECKY, JOSEPH H. KRAKER, WILLIAM H. KRIEG, RUSSELL C. KUEHL, REV. THO.MAS 
J. LANE, C.S.C., JOHN LAW, EDWIN LEACH, EDWARD J. LEAHY, JOSEPH LENIHAN, ELI LEONELLI, WILLIAM C. LOUGHRAN, FRAN­CIS A. .McANANEY, REV. BERNARD L. Mc­.AVOY, C.S.C., EM.METT A. McCABE, DANIEL 
I. McCAIN, JOHN J. -McCLAREN, CHARLES D. HON, THOMAS F. McMAHON, HUGH J. McCOLL, DR. GEORGE McDONNELL, PAT­RICK S. .McDOUGALL, EDMOND R. Mc MANIGAL, JOSEPH P. .McNAMARA, ROBERT 
A. McVErr\', KARL E. MARTERSTECK, JOHN 
C. .MEAGHER, REV. THEODORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C., FRANCIS M. METRAILER, FRANCIS D. .MEYER, LEO L. .MICHITOA, GEORGE M. MONROE, LAURENCE MOORE, JOHN F. MORAN, PETER J. .MORGAN, ELMO E. MOYER, WALTER H. MULFLUR, JOHN C. MURRAY, JOHN R. NASH, WILLIAM L. NEFF, ROBERT G. NEWBOLD, LOUIS F. NIEZER, FRANK O'BRIEN, RUSSELL T. O'BRIEN, JO­SEPH G. O'BRYAN, WILLIAM E. O'REILLY, JEROME E. OUELLETTE, DONALD J. PLUN­KETT, JAMES J. QUINN, JOHN REAGER, LOUIS J. REGAN, PAUL C. ROSS, OLIVER F. SCHELL, HUBERT SCHIMBERG, ROLAND SCHLAGER, CLETUS P. SCHNEIDER, REYN­OLDS C. SEITZ, THOMAS C. SHEA, WILLIAM 
R. SIDENFADEN, JOHN V. S.MITH, LAIVRENCE 
F. STAUDER, JOSEPH A. SVETE, JOHN F. SWEENY, REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C., DR. JAMES W. TOBIN, ROBERT M. TROTTER, DR. JOHN A. VAICHULIS, ROBERT VOGLE­U-EDE, FRED WAGNER, JOHN P. WALTZ, .ALOIS J. AVELZENBACH, JOSEPH WHALEN, ROBERT AVILLIAMS, F. MARCELLUS WON­DERLIN, JAMES YATES AND RICHARD K. ZIMMERLY. 
After an honest ballot count the following offi­cers have been sworn in for the ensuing five vrars: FRANCIS JONES, president; JOE LENIHAN, \ice-president (East); MICKY McMAHON, vice-president (South); S. SIDENFADEN, vice-president (West); JOE WHELAN, vice-president (No. Cen­
tral); DON PLUNKETT, secretary; BOB VOGEL­
WEDE, treasurer. 
NORM HART2ER is tlie only Catholic on ihe State Board of Social Welfare in California. Norm Is also a member of the Board of Trustees of the Catholic Welfare Bureau. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. DICK recently an­nounced the marriage of their daughter, ifary Sue to John A. Griswold. 
Z5 yEAR REUNION JUNE lOri-Ii 

* 09n Devere Plimkett 
ITJU O'Shaughnessy HaU 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE WILLIAM E. CASSIDY, MARSHALL KIZER, CHUCK LENNON, VINCENT McCUE, DON­
F. J. MCCARTHY, '32 

F. J. McCarthy, former Chicago newspaperman and son of a newspaper­man, will handle passenger and public relations for the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway in Chicago, it was announced recently by Thomas J. Deegan, Jr., vice-president of passenger and public relations. 
Flo, whose title will be assistant to the vice-president, was on the advertis­ing staff of "The Chicago Herald-Ex­aminer," now defimct, for a year after graduating from Notre Dame in 1932. His father, the late F. J. McCarthy, Sr., was managing editor of "The Chicago American" from 1933 to 1939. 
He will move to Chicago from Cleve­land, where he has been membership secretary of the Federation for Railway Progress from 1947 to 1949, and, more recently, a partner in the George E. Forbes Real Estate Company. 
During World War II, Flo was assist­ant to Maury Maverick, chairman of the Smaller War Plants Corporation, in ^Vashington. Prior to that he was assistant to the president of the Equit­able Paper Bag Company, of New York. 
He is a past president of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. Flo is mar­ried to the former Evelyn McKay of Chicago and they have two children. 
ALD SCHETTIG AND JOHN VOSS. 
f

The class of 1929 had a good reunion for thdr 
25th anniversary. Some of It was planned, a good deal Impromptu, and the whole of it added up to a swell time for alt members of that class. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
went out to scout quite a bit of their doings. At their Friday night dinner held in the Morris Inn, they had FRANCIS JONES as MC and FATHER EUGENE BURKE as main speaker. It was a good combination, and I began to think about our same afTalr next year. Any ideas? 
I ran into qui:e a number of 1930 men \*isiting the '29 reunion in some capacity or other. Had a nice visit with CHICK DRISCOLL who promised mc right on the spot a ver>' nice contributioi* for our big reunion ne:(t June. Tliis is one evcr>*one uiU enjoy. 
PAUL FAR.MER and BOB HOLMES were pres­ent to renew ties ^rith a bunch of fellows they knew so well back in 1929-30. I mentioned a gathering of local committeemen to lay plans for our anniversary reunion, and they were all hot for it. Also I had a chance to chat with VINCE McCUE who was with some friends of the 1929 class; he promised to be back next year, and also to help out in any way in the preliminary plans. JACK ELDER was ver>* busy about the place, going at hb usual cUp. Jack ought to be back next June for a \'islt with his other class. It was lots of fun cliatting again with Doc TOMXfV FERRITER, who was back for his first visit to ND since learing in Februar>', 1930. 
Our local alumni club had their annual golf day last week here on the ND iMurse. It appeared to be a good turnout, and the beef barbecue held on the course at the close of play was another big success as it has been in previous years. MAR­SHALL KIZER was on deck with some friends from Plymouth; he: was recently re-elected District Chairman of the Democratic Party. FRAN MES­SICK was present; we see Fran at more functions since he returned to town to resume bis old rela­tionship with the Associates Company. 
Here are some more news items gleaned from the questionnaires sent several months ago to class members. Some returns are still coming in. We could U5e many more. 
AVILLIAM J. REAUME is the golfing coach at Dcnby High in Detroit. He has two children, Daniel J., who is 19, and Felice M., 15 years of age. Bill has been swimming coach at Dcnby and hu team has been undefeated in the East Side League of Detroit for the past 13 years. At pres­ent he is president of the Michigan Amateur Ath­letic Union, and President of the Detroit Health Education Club. Editor of the Scholastic Section of the National Athletic Asso. Swimming Guide, Bill spends his spare time In the business of build­ing homes. Bill would like to hear from RAY ZILIAK and AD.VM BR.\Y (so would I). 
FRED M. BURRELL is Jocaied In Green Bay, Wisconsin, ^vith his \rife Ar\illa, son Fred, 18, in the Air Force, daughter Arx-illa L>Tin, 16, son Michael, 14, and son Mark, 5. He reported he saw TOM LA^VLER in Milwaukee a short tune ago, first since graduation. Fred said he had a dandy trip with family through Mexico and the west coast recently but failed to run into any Notre Damer. Fred sa>-s: "No newsworthy accom­plishments except that I didn't %'ote for Joe Mc­Carthy and accept no responsibility for him. Look for the Green Bay Packers to become National Pro Champs again with TOM HEARDEN, *27, as back­fteld coach and JACK VAINISI as scout and public relations man." Fred is district manager of the Seldtitz Paint and Varnish Co. of Kansas City, Mo. Will be at the reunion. 
FATHER EDWARD R. FITZGER^VLD, C.S.C., is Deputy Command Chaplain, located at Langley Field, Virginia. Father said he had seen FATHER JIM RIZER some time ago. (Wonder if these two gentlemen will be on hand next June for reunion and the Mass assignments tvhich are a part of each reunion?) Many thanks for the personal note. Father Fitz. 
JACK NOIVERY is a Lease Broker in the oil business. His children are Ann, 18; Donnle, 16; Michael, 13; and Robert, 9. Jack says he frequently sees his neighborhood classmate, \1 C MARTZEL; he ran Into JIMMIE FAVERET (Faveret Con­struction Co., New Orleans) about 6 months ago; couple years ago saw TONY DIAZ In Yucatan (Calle GO, Numcnj 338-T, Merida, Yucatan). Jack said he was going down to Mexico this summer and hoped to visit with some ND alumni there. Promised to be at the 1955 reunion. 
ED A. HINDERSCHEID, with his wife, 3 boys and one daughter lives in Akron, O. Ed is the operating assistant to the V-Prcs. of Firestone 
T. & R. Co. Saj-s he sees ANDY SNYDER every day. ^VouId like to contact SYL COTTER and ED MCCLELLAND. Ed has one son who Is a junior at Notre Dame now, and another boy, Lee, who Is entering this fall. Ed says: "Have been with Firestone 19 years—went all through field accounting and auditing—have been in the sales department for 8 years, and on present job 6 years." 
AUSTIN C. GILDEA, u-idi wife and two chU­dren, 14 and 10, lives In Etkharc, Indiana, where he helps to make Gildea and Stuart a thriving law concern. In recent months Austin has seen BOB GRANT, former Congressman, FRANK READY, MARSH KJZER, LEO SaVNLON and LOUIS CHAPLEAU. Austin said he would like very much to hear from BOB EGGENfAN, FRED SCHOEP­.MAN, TO.M McDOUGAL, GROSSMAN, GOOD­MAN and all the LL.B.'s from '30. Austin wrote: "Immediately after graduation I returned to my home town (It was no novelty—I had been doing the same thing for 5 years) and hung out the 

ST. LOUIS—*Man of the Year* award w-as given to Vincent J. Fehlig. L. to R.: Father Ed­mund P. Joyce, C.S.C., guest speaker; Fehh'g; and John J. Griflin, Jr., toastmaster. 
MURRAY POWERS, '23 
One of Notre Dame's outstanding 
j'oumalists is Murray Powers, managing 
editor of the Akron Beacon Journal and 
member of the 1923 class. He has just 
finished a i4-year period as an assistant 
professor at Kent State CoU^e in 
Akron. His newspaper career covers 
the past 32 years having worked on 
sheets in Springfield and Dayton, O., 
in addition to his present assignment. 
Murray has been particularly active 
in establishing Catholic magazine racks 
in parish churches of the Akron diocese. 
He is a member of the following organi­
zations: Board of Directors, Associated 
Press Managing Editors Assoc,; Amer­
ican Societ)-- of Newspaper Editors; 
president of Buckeye Chapter, Sigma 
Delta Chi, professional j'oumalism 
fraternity; Fourth Degree, Knights of 
Columbus; American Association for 
Education in Journalism; president of 
Pete Mardo Tent, Circus Fans of Amer­
ica; past president of Notre Dame 
Alumni Club of Akron; and recipient 
of 'Man of the Year* award from 
Akron alumni. 
He is married, has one son who at­
tended Notre Dame and another who 
will enroll in September, 1954. 
shingle while Indiana was still without Bar exanu, 
and here I have spent my life: four years as Jus­
tice of the Peace, 6 years with HOLC, 9 years as 
City Attorney and since 1936. a married man, aad 
a father since IWO." 
ROBERT R. AfcDONALD, MD., is a pediatri­
cian in Pittsburgh where he makes hu home with 
wife, Ruth and childreD, John, Heather, Robie, Jay 
and Anne. Bob is an ex-*30 man who went to Med 

Noire Dame AtumntUf August-September, 1954 33 
school after two years at ND. Sees DOC OTOOLE frequently. (How is OToole's present crop of lunezidcs?) John McDonald, 17, was expected to apply for entrance at ND to do pre-med work this fall. Bob sa>-s he would like to hear from PAUL O'CONNOR, LARRY MULLINS, GEORGE HEW­SON, GENE FINDLEY, TOM GALBRAITH, LUKE ROSS, BART METZGER and HARRY SYLVESTER. Dr. Bob is state co.chainnan, Amer­ican Academy of Pediatrics. 
WILLM&l H. MILLER runs a general insurance business in Jackson, Miss. He has two daughtcis, Angela (18), frosh at St. Mary's of the Woods, and Mary Catherine (14). Bill said he had last seen VIC MARTZEL, JOHN ROa\P, JOE PALERMO, and KEN BEAGNI. Would like soon to hear from his old roommates, CHUCK LENNON, PAUL ENRIGHT, and JOHN ROa^P. BUI wrote: "Had the pleasure of a ^"isit a while back from JIM FRICK of the ND Foundation after accepting the ^lississippi chairmanship, and am hoping all 'us Southerners' will come through with a good year and contribute to and aid the foundation work. Enjoyed meeting Father Norton while on his tour recently with the ND Glee Club. Members from Jackson and \^cksburg of the alumni had a great treat when the bo\-s performed in Vicksburg and assisted cvcr>' %vay in helping with the entertain­ment." 
JAMES F. DILLEY is Director of Health, Phys­ical Education and Athletics at Ossining High Sdiool in New York State. He has three fine boys in James Jr., 17, Edwin Boyd, 14, and Robert John, 9. Since graduating in 1930 Jim has been teaching and coaching in Wcstciicster County. He has coached all sports. Jim is due for a visit ont this way, and the 1933 reunion date is the one to attract him. Hope to see you then, Jim, if not sooner. 
CHARLES Y. DERBY is the owner and manager of the Valley Orange-Crush Bottling Co., in.Har-Hngen, Texas. He has four children; Olivia, 14, Gail, 11, Brian, 9, and Douglas, 4. Charlej* would like to hear from GIL KIRWAN and FRANK FINNEGAN. He wrote: "After graduating from ND, I received my MBA at Harvard Grad School of Bus. Ad. in 1932. Went to So. America for 12 years—Peru, Chili, Colombia and Venezuela. Back to states with Orango-Crush Co. of Chicago for 3 years as Manager of their International business. Went into business for myself in magic Rio Grande Valley in 1947 and still here." 
JAMES E. BURKE is in real estate business in Okla. City. His children are Aime, 15, Nancy, 11, Jimmy, 10, and Jane, 8. Jim said he would like to hear from ED ELLSWORTH and ED CON­LEY. Jim said he ran into JOE MORAN, attorney in Tulsa recently. Also he writes: "I have a small real estate office dealing in investment properties, RODNEY JANEWAY (.\D '26-'28) and BILL LE­.\USNEY (ND '29-'31) are in the office with me. Naturally tlicre is a lot of conversation about the school. Bill played varsity basketball there. HAS­KELL ASKEW, '31, is a neighbor ot mine. He has a lO-ycar-old boy and is following in his father's footsteps as a ball player. Haskell and I fish together. He is doing very well with tlie Askew Adjusting Company." 
T. VINCENT McINTIRE is the President and Treasurer of the Zanesxillc (O.) Terminal Ware­house, Inc. Vincc has two sons attending ND, and the rest of the family at home in Zanesville com­prises wile Elizabeth, Diane, 16, Kathleen, 10, Terry, 9, and Dennis Patrick, 1. Vincc stated he would like to hear from VITO CANIZARO, BOB TONER, TOM L.\NTRY, JOHN HINKLE, BILL SULLIVAN, MURRAY LEY and TOM KEEGAN. I was very pleased with Vincc's extended note aiMl I pass it on to you. He wrote: "Contacts with Notre Dame were pretty much confined to radio and the sports page from 1930 to 1952. Then witli tlic graduation of my oldest son from high scliool came the matter of college education. Of course, therv could only be one choice, and in September, 1953, the two of us matriculated at Notre Dame, 
Tom in tlic physical sense while my matriculation was spiritual. It w-as a periect September day, and She never looked more beautiful! I marvel how well the old and the new have been wedded. And how close to Heaven those lucky guys are, if they 
BALTIMORE—^Franldyn C. Hochreiter (the moustache and hair were part of makeup for stage performance later that evening—he ain't really that old) presents retiring presi­dent's gift to Jim Murray, Jr., who in turn crossed up the situation and was re-elected president—the first prexy to have this honor in Baltimore. 
EDWARD A. HUTH, '28 

Dr. Edward A. Huth, Chairman of the Department of Sociology, Univer­sity of Dayton, has been elected Presi­dent of the National Catholic Confer­ence on Family Life for the two-year term, 1954-1956. 
He has also been a leader in the American Catholic Sociological Society. He has held such positions in the So­ciety as: member of the Executive Council; member of the Editorial Board of The American Catholic Soci­ological Review; Second Vice Presi­dent; and he was the first National Director of Membership for The Amer­ican Cathohc Sociological Society. 
In 1951, Dr. Huth was elected to membership on The Commission on Educational Organizations of the Na­tional Conference of Christians and Jews, Inc. The Commission is com­posed of forty outstanding educational leaders from eveiy section of the United States. 
He was graduated, Magna cum laude, from Heidelberg University in 1921 wt h the A.B. degree; in 1928 he was granted the M.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame; and in 1943, he received the Ph.D. degree from Western Reserve University. From 1921 to 1926, Dr. Huth served in the Ohio Public Schools; from 1926-1937, he was a member of the faculty. University of Notre Dame; from 1937­1939, he was engaged in research at Ohio State University. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
BUFFALO—UND Night participants included, (L. to R.): William B. Lawless, principal speaker; Richard Thoen, pres.; Donald Mahoney, chairman; Donald Zcifang, scholazship \rinner; Fr. \\^iHiam F. Gartland, C.S.C., chaplain; and ^lauricc F. Quinn, toastmaster. 
DAVID G. POWERS, *33 

David G. Powers^ '33^ has won a reputation as an educator, lecturer, scholar and author. He is one of the top consukants in industry, advising such firms as du Pont, Johnson & John­son, Sico Oil, the National Realtors Board and many others. In 1949 he was selected "Lecturer of the Year*' by the Columbia Lecture Bureau, and for two years was the featured speaker on a weekly program over the Mutual Broadcasting System. 
After leaving Notre Dame Dave took a Doctor of Education degree at Co­lumbia University, and later a Doctor of Philosophy degree at New York Uni­versity. Since then he has studied at 
Cambridge, Universite de Paris, Stras­bourg, and Heidelberg Universities. 
In 1951 he conducted a survey of Italian Universities in cooperation with the Italian Ministry of Education. During the war he was a member of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. 
Dr. Powers is the author of thirteen books on speech and psychology. These include a standard college text, Funda­mentals of Speech^ the popular Live a New Life, and the latest best seller, How To Say A Few Words. 
only knew it! This year ^ve sent another to Notre Dame. Mike began his freshman year in engineer­injBT and is doing very well as is his older brother. They unblushingly admit that their father has raised some very smart boys, and I plead guilty. "My personal history is neither exciting nor ex­
ccptional. A week after graduating in AB I went to work for the State of Ohio as Highway and Bridge Inspector on new construction. None of the bridges collapsed and no highways exploded, so my self instruction in enstnccring must have been suffi­cient. After five years of working for the Stale I decided to go into business for myself, so I opened a retail coal business. Xext I went into the real estate business specializing in commercial develop­ments and sub-divisions. In 1&40 I listed a building so large no one could conceive a use for it, so I leased it for myself, incorporated a warehouse com­pany and have been minding cverj*one else's busi­ness ever since." 
LOU BUCKLEy, '28, sent along the following note for ^vhich we arc very grateful; "I am passing along a few items for your column. I met STE­PHEN J. GREEN last week at the University of Illinois Institute on Current Developments in Social Security. Steve is doing an outstanding Job as Chief, Division of Field Operations, Illinois Public Aid Commission. He lives in Chicago and has two children. RAY HILLURD, '29, also attended the Institute. He will become Director of Cook County Department of Welfare on July I. 
**Two weeks ago I renewed my acquaintance with LEO H. C/\RNEY at the annual convention of the International ^Vssociatton oE Personnel in Em­ployment Security in .•Vshenllc, N. C. Leo is Dis­trict Manager of the Pennsylvania Bureau of Em­ployment Security in Eric, Pa. He has prepared the most comprehensive bibliography on the subject of Personnel .Administration which has ever been is­sued. If you see any '28 men. please pass along some news to me." 
BOB EGGE.M/\N, of Fort Wayne, Ind., has just been nominated for the Superior Court judgeship in Allen County on the Democratic ticket. 
1091 James T. Doyle IT ^ • 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE CARL CRONIN, EDWARD RYAN AND ^VNTHONY R. SCHREINER. 
I delayed sending my news column until the last­.-Mumnus had reached you to see what I would re­ceive in response to my request for news and $$$$$. Don't forget to send your check for the Mass and 1956 Reunion Fund. If you are too busy to write just send your check with your card attached. TOM GOLDEN, Anaconda, Mont., sent a letter and check: "I can't b^ d to tell you how I feel when I read all about the acti\'ities of my old classmates. Just reading their names makes the years fall away and transports me back to scenes of campus life in my happier years. There are not many N'otre Dame men in Anaconda. I see TOM KELLY, '37, nearly every day. He is running the American Legion Club now. He is a very person­able young man and will do well there. I H-ent to a D.A.V. convention at LeuistoM-n (I am the local commander) and ran into TOD DO RAN from Butte. We had a nice chat. He is down that way on an engincerii^ project. I think he graduated in 1947 when I got my Master's. There ' isn't much about me. I am sales manager for KAN.A, the local radio station. Not a large setup­.-Uter reading about BOB NEYDON's passing some time ago I wrote Mrs. Neydon. I didn't hear from her, but I suppose half the class wTOte to her, so I understand. Please accept the enclosed check for the fund for Masses. I will send >'ou another check in a couple of months. I believe this to be a fine idea and I am reminded of the Mass that used to 
CHICAGO—Shenvood Di.\on (standing) was toastmaster at Chicago Club's UND Night party. Coach Terry Brennan ivas featured speaker. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ AueustSeptember, J954 35 
MliHTflLUIllllllS 
ED\VARD G. CONROY, '30 

Recently^ Ed Conroy was publicly honored in San Antonio at a luncheon g^ven by grateful citizens. It was the occasion for presenting him an honor­ary life membership in the American Social Hygiene Association. As di­rector of the Bureau of Governmental Research and as executive vice-presi­dent of San Antonio's Research and Planning Councilj Ed established the council-manager plan and helped to check the corrupt spoils system that had been in operation. 
He graduated from Notre Dame in 1930 and returned to San Antonio where he supervised its police radio system. Later he received a master's degree in Public Administration from the University of Minnesota. During World War II he ser\^ed with the U.S. Navy and attained the rank of com­mander. 
Some of his awards have included those in Civic Service and in Good Citizenship, from San Antonio, and the LaGuardia Aw^ard for Outstanding Achievement in Municipal Affairs. 
be celebrated after a fatality for the next one to 
die. Keep up the fine work, Jim.'* 
JACK SAUNDERS was on the campus for the 

Almnnl Association meeting and upon his return 
to Boston sent a check and the following letten 
**Had high hopes of seeing you at school last 
Weekend. In that I failed to 'meet up with you' 
there, I now enclose my contribution toward the 
1931 Class Mass Fund. My Chicago \isit last week 
was only a ^technical one'—at the airport just long enough to switch planes. .At sc:hool, from '31, I saw J1.M McQUAID, FRED RAHAIM, JOHN McINTYRE, BOB GORE, et al. More soon, Jim. Congratulations on the better than outstanding job you are doing as Class Secretary. I'm sure our fast-approaching 25-year Reunion in 1956 will be a totally refreshingly memorable gcl-togethcr." 
These letters should he an impetus for many of you to sit down and send that check with some 
I received a letter from the Alumni Office that ANDREW G. PATRICK of Stratford, Conn., had passed away. TOM ASHE also wrote telling me of the death of AL HOWARD in California about the middle of April. Please remember them in your prayers. Mass cards will be sent to their families. While on the bus one day I ran into FRANK ZIHERLE who said he had heard from ED McCALLEN, JR. I phoned JOHN RADOSI­VICH, but didn't get a return call from him. WALT CAHILL is in the hospital sufTcring from injuries as a result of falling out of a tree. JIM McQUAID sent me a card thanking me for some subscription renewals and promised to send a letter soon. EDDIE RYAN and CARL CRONIN were down for the Alumni Reunion and saw FRED R^VHAIM (hou- about a letter, Freddie?), BOB GORE, TO.Vy SCHREIXER and TEX BRIEGER, one of the 1931 faithfuls. Last week I saw FITZ GORE w-ho will be around town for a few months cnioving Chicaso's cool weather. Saw JOHN (KEWPIE) SHERMAN, the Santa Fe Freight Agent, recently. 
PreM!nt at the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in Chicago were: GENE VALLEE, RAY COLLINS, ED RYAN, BILL LEAHY, DON OTOOLE, CARL CRONIN, JIM MULVANEY, TOM CONLEY, TOM COUGHLAN, AL STE­FAN, GIL SEAMAN, retiring president, NICK BOHLING, SPIKE McADAMS and VINCE BUSCH. It was the first time I had seen Vince since 1931. 
I wrote Tom Ashe after visiting witli him in Fcbruar>' and received the following: '*I am very sorr>' that it has taken me so long to reply to your letter, but as a matter of fact I mislaid it soon after it readied me. Just this morning I found a card with your address on the back (something I had written in Chicago] and this inspired me to dash off a note. Anyhow, Jim, thanks for writing so promptly, and I can readily imdcntand why you have been so successful as a class secretary. As for me, my intentions are good, but while the t^vins are so young (they were four on Monday) I never Seem'to get much accomplished. My trip to the w-est coast was veiy pleasant, but I did not gel rid of my cold for three weeks, so I amused myself and all the passengers on the train by coughing non-stop all the way to L. A. I traveled so much last year that I was under the impression that the airplane was the only means of transportation left, but once again I am sold on the railroads. (BEN O.AKES, please note this) Since the first of Fcb­ruaiy I have been doing some different work, and this year I shall not be galli\*anting around the country as previously. This suits me fine, and the family sort of likes the idea too because it has 
given me an opportunity to get acquainted with the folks at home. Nevertheless, I expect to go cast in a couple of months, and if that trip ma­terializes I shall advise you in advance so that wc can have a meeting of some of the 'thirty-oners.' Your letter reminded me to get in touch with a pair of delinquents, so I shall do so without further delay and have them drop you a line. (Tom, tho* are stQI delinquent.) Sorry, I have nothing more in the way of news. After Universal Notre Dame Night I should be in a position to send you a few-items. With kindest regards, and again thanks for the trip to Skokie so that we could get together and chin a bit." 
GIL SEAMAN has just completed a stimulating year as president of the ND Club of Chicago and is to be congratulated for an excellent job. 
Due to mo\ing and the rush of business I haven't had time to jack up some of the lazy '31crs %%'ith postcards. If Grand Rapids has been able to show-life :^ain there is no reason why more of you cannot get letters in for the next issue of the Alumnus. Don't forget to send your contribution to the Mass and Reunion Fund and be sure to take crare of the Foundation too. If you have any pic­tures of your respective outings shounng any ageing 1931 men, be sure to send them for the enjoyment and amusement of your classmates^ 
Senator FRANK S. McCULLOUGH has been appointed cliairman of the special Senate Commit­tee on Guidance and Ethics of New York. 
Father PAUL J. HALLIHAN, nau'onal chaplain of the Newman Club Federation, made an annual visitation to the larger Newman Clubs of America recently. 
109 0 Jzuncs K. Collins lY^ ^ 3336 Kcnmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE FR-ANK O'MALLEY. 

109 9 Toscph A. McCabc iT^ d '632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
Inasmucti as a man's desk gets that overburdened look when he travels for a few daj's—it's enough to send him home when he gets back to the office and looks at the "In" basket—I'm going to ask those of you who expect to do the unexpected and drop a letter to the secretary to address it to my home instead of office. SO—from now on, address those letters to: 
JOE McCABE, 
632 FOREST AVE. 
RI\'ER FOREST, ILL. 

. . . and then be sure to write them! I still have • the almost delirious pleasure of being 
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Attending UND Night dinner, U to R{,: John T. Barber, club vice-president; Paul C. Tully; Matthew H. Merlde; E. F. Murphy; J. R. "Pat" Gorman; and James G. McGoldrick, president of Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
X Notre Dame Atumnus, Auguil-Srplrmbcr, 1954 
able to list names, adflresscs and messages—where given—^from our last mailing, so I won't bother with much preliminar>' stuif, but plunge nght into it. However, I'll ask one question . . . how many havo made a Marian year pilgrimage yet? It's usu­ally quite simple—get the directions from your pastor—and the re\*:ards are great. Get *vith it— there aren't too many months to go! 

LES RADDATZ, 9033 Cedros Ave., Van Nuys, Calif., seven children, who is manager of press and publicity for National Broadcasting Co. in Holly­wood, says: "Heard from FRED MacBETH, who is district manager for Canadian Bell in London. Ont., and JERRY CONWAY, who is in Columbia Broadcasting System Publicity in HoIIpvood." 
PAUL SARTORETTO, 1394 Metropolitan Ave., Bronx 62, N. Y., two children, who is a. research chemist, says: "Saw PAT CRO^\XEY, who is one of the charter members of the Chicago Federation of the Christian Family Movement—a great storv* for Notre Dame Alumni. His address: 100 W. Monroe, Chicago." 
W. E. "BILL" RICH, 1729 Indiana St., Whitticr. Calif., three children, salesman. Union Oil Co. of California, says: "Saw MONTE TAYLOR, HAR­RY FAULL, and MARTIN D'ERRICO." 
THOMAS A. "KnT\' " GOR.MAN, 603 Wash­ington Blvd., Oak Park, 111., who has one child, and is regional sales promotion manaqer of Chevro­let, says: "Heard from .MARTY LINSKEY, ED %'YZRAL, both of Chicago; Marty's with Sears, Ed is a lawyer." 
MATT McDOUGALL, JR., 413 S.E. 33, Port­land, Ore., five children, an insurance agent, says: "ROLLIE SCHEFTER lives at 4820 S.E. Ankeny. Portland; CHARLES J. SLATT, '33, lives at 2833 N'.E. 19th, Portland." 
ED DAILEY, 403 Court St., Burlington, la., eight children, who is a member of the law iirm of Dailcy & Dailey, writes: "Saw LARRY SEX­TON of Indianapolis, Ind. He should be good for names of men seen in California and Hawaii." 
WARREN SCHWANTES, 202 Condo St., West Chicago, who has four boys and describes himself as a "white collar worker" (who isn't, Warren?) hasn't seen anyone, but sent along a nice note, for which thanks. 
PAUL H. SEAMAN, 39 S. Vernon, Middleport, 

N. Y., an attorney who has four children, writes: "Saw TONY BRICK, assistant D.A. of Niagara County, N. Y. 1 run into him quite frequently at the Niagara County Clerk's ofHce. I will try to get together some ne\« for next time." (DON'T FORGET, PAUL!) 
JOE H. BITTORF, 1411 First Me., Sterling, III., who has four children and is secretary* of the Na-
Joseph A. Breig, '28, writer, receives honorary Doctor of Letters degree from St. Vincent College. Joe's latest book is "The Devil You Say." 
Uonal Mfg. Co., says: "Saw R. J. 'SPIKE' SUL­LIVAN. Often recall trips to Terre Haute when with Dillon, Bellamy, Sullivan." A memory you got, Joe! 
J. F. DOYLE, 197 Russell Ave., St. Catharine's, Ontario, who has three children and is an area manager for his firm, writes: "Sav«- WILLIE HUNTER, Sikeston, Mo., CHARLIE PRESTON, 
Fairbanks, Alaska; DON McGRANN (about '42) lives near here; see him frequently." 
JOHN SOISSON, 13 Wallace Ave., R. D. No. 2, Library, Pa., who has four children and is Con­struction Manager for Carrier Corp., writes: "Have not seen any of the fellows for many years. Saw CHUCK SL.ATTS during the war but lost track of him." 
VINCE BURKE, 6938 Edgerton Ave., Pittsburgh 8, Pa., who is a partner in the law firm of Camp­bell, Houck & Thomas, says he has seen or heard from LARRY S.MITH, GENE COYNE, BART FULTON and WILLARD HIGGINS. 
DONALD A. KRONEWITTER, G17 -N". Gem-hart St., two children, Mishawaka, Ind., is super­intendent of the sewage treatment plant, has seen "only G. GOEPFRICH of the Mechanical Engi­neers and that was at Bcndlx in South Bend in 1943." 
Dr. MARK H. DONOVAN, 2120 E. 25lh, Tulsa, Okla., who should be well able to prescribe for his own three children, since he is a pediatrician (or is tliat allowed, Mark?), sa>-s "ED LE ROUX is here in toivn and so is MARION BLAKE. I see them occasionally—and I'll see you at the 25th 
AUSTIN F. SULLIVzW, 157 Bellevue .-^ve.. 
Colonial Park, West Haven, Conn., who has two 
children, and is director of personnel and public 
relations (ah there, comrade!) for Brock Hall 
Dairy Co., in Hamden, Conn., sa>-s: "\\'hereas 
LOUIS 'BUD' MURPHY, my tx-roommate, who 
lives in Columbus, O., talked with me on the 
phone one week ago and we have a date in 
N. Y. City in February. PAUL BLONDIN, who lives in New Haven, was seen only at a distance in a crowd last week. Talked with JOE KEN­NEDY, who is the manager of Mcridcn, Conn., State Employment Office." 
ALBERT RIPLEY, 52 Weskora Ave., Pleasant­\*ille, N. Y., who has two children and is manager of the restaurant The Rail, says: "Saw CHARLIE LOUGHRY. DAVE McCAFFREY, and WES FAR­RINGTON." 
FRED P. ZIETLOW, 3969 Ruckle St., Indian­apolis 5. Ind.. is a professional engineer. He is a bachelor. 
ARTHUR N. BECVAR, 121 Heady Ave., Louis­\illc, Kv., who has three children, and is manager of the Product Planning and Appearance Design Division of the Major Appliances department of General Electric Co., writes: "Saw CLEVE (HREY, who is with Giey Adv. Agenc^' in New York City: JIM UPRICHARD, Ohio Bell in Cleveland. Had lunch in Chicago with ED STEPHAN and FRED BECKLENBERG." 
F. E. -MARRA, 1410 Cedar Ave., .Napa, Calif., has two children and is football and basketball coach and phy ed teacher. 
PAUL E. GRAY, C.L.U., 427 West Fern Ave., Rcdiands, Calif., who has seven children and is a chartered life under%vriter, ^vrites: "Have seen none of our class. There are three other ND grads nearby, though. (Listen to this, now—that chamber of commerce gets 'em all out on the coast). How can you live back there while I play golf all winter and work without a coat and eat oranges out of the back yard!" (Ed. Answer: I can't play golf anywhere, working with a coat is no worse than working witliout one, and oranges 
don't agree with me. Ah—is there much public relations work around Redlands, Paul?) 
R. F. BUNCH, 6116 Contra Costa Rd., Oakland 16, Calif., who has two children and is a radiologist at Province Hospital, has seen PAUL CUSHING, ED MASS, and ED THOMAS. 
Dr. ARTHUR C. TUTELA, -M.D., 220 S. Sev­enth, Newark 3, N. J., has two children. 
WILLIAM E. BOSS, '44 

William E. Boss, '44, has been ap­
pointed a vice president of the RCA 
Victor Distributing Corporation in 
charge of the Buffalo-Rochester, N. Y. 
branch, it was anoimced recently by 
Walter M. Norton, president. 
Bill, for the past two years manager 
of television market development for 
the RCA Victor Home Instrument Di­
vision, will be responsible for the sjiles 
and distribution of RCA and RCA 
Victor products in the Buffalo-Rochest­
er area. 
As manager of television market de­
velopment, he was active in the estab­
lishment and development of new tele­
vision sales markets, including those 
created by the installation of RCA com­
munity Antenaplex systems and the 
sales of television receivers to hotels. 
Bill joined the RCA oiganizaticm in 
1947 as a member of the television re­
ceiver sales staff, doing promotion work 
in new. television markets. Shortly 
thereafter, he was named a field sales 
representative for the RCA Victor 
Home Instrument Division in New 
York and New England. He is a mem­
ber of the Notre Dame Foundation 
Alumni Advisory Committee. 
JOHN H. BAKBAZETTE III, 1S95 West 9th, Pomona, Calif., has two children and is a sale* engiixeer. 
JAMES A. DAY. 18 Herbert St., Melioic 76. Mass., who has five sons and is an advertisns sale^ man. has seen RAY GEIGER of Newark, N. J. 
FRANK FALLON, 149 YoueU S. E.. Gra^ Rapids, Mich., who has or will have soon ins sev­
\otre Dame Alumnus, AuguitStpttmher^ 1954 
Dick Rosenthal, Irish cage captain thb winter, was named Most Valuable Player on the AII-American squad. (L. to R.): Coach Ray Meyer, '38, of DePaul; Rosenthal; Coach John Jordan, '35, of Notre Dame; and Coach John Russell of Seton Hall. 
cnth cliild, is a mrmbcr of the law firm of Ambcrg, 
Law and Btidicn. 
JAMES P. ROSS, 630 Ocean Ave. Brooklyn 26, 

N. Y., who has four boys and two girls and is the tax manager in the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen & Co., writes: *'Heard from Father Jim Donnelly. Would like to hear from ADRIAN BASKERMLLE, BILL BODA, BILL DOYLE, JIM McGILL, CHARLES .MONTGOMERY, and the other Corby and Badin Hallcrs" (Surely some of you guys have tax problems?) 
EDWARD TROY, 2-M) S. Hilbert St., Cedarburg, Wis., who has sue children, is tlic owner of the Est Company, Grafton, Wis. 
JOSEPH J. KURTH, 2755 WiUon Parkway, Har­risburg. Pa., who is a sales representative for Miller Brewing Co. and has two children, \\Tites: "Had a nice letter from 'RED' TOBIN of Madi­son, Wis." 
JI.M KRAUS of Route 1, Nccnali, Wis., has— hold your hats—TEX children. He is a process engineer in paper for the Kimbcrly Clark Corp. 
ROBERT D. POWELL, who has five boys, and is in apartment house building and management, has two addresses: 18301 Hamilton Rd., Detroit, and 16305 Redington Beach, Rcdinglon, Fla. Try the Florida address in the w-intcr months. Bob urges. 
J. GEORGE AROE, 9JJ Femwood, Royal Oak, Midi., who has four children and is in Export Sales, Hudson Motor Car Co., has heard from HARRY KENNEDY, '31, who is with the Coca Cola Co., in Bogota, Colombia; GEORGE COS­TELLO, '31, Chicago, and LOUIS GODOY, '31, distributing business, Havana, Cuba. 
C. M. KRETSCHMER, 1295 Lathrop St., Sagi­na%v, Mich., has four children and is manager of Krctschmcr Wheat Co., writes: "Saw HAROLD 
V. LOPPIN, '32. Also ran into ART DUTT under the stadium at the Oklalioma game. Heard from JOE MARONIAK, '32, to learn he has about 9 children now.** 
LEO J. CUMMINGS, 1519 E. Howell, Seattle 32, Wash., is married but has no diildrcn. He is traffic . manager of Alaska Consolidating & Forwarding Co., Seattle. 
PHILIP A. DARMODY, 110 Whitmoor Terrace, Silver Spring, Md., has four children and is an airways engineer. He says: "Heard from RUSSELL 
J. O'SHEA, '35 (ex '33). He is ill in Cairo, III., 2027 Washington Ave., is his address. Please send him a card and have other dassmales do so if possible.** (Ed, Note: Remember him in your prayers, too.) 
CHARLIE FARRIS, 319 N. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo., who has three children and is Executive Di­rector of the St. Louis Land Clearance Agency, writes: "Have heard from BER.ME LENAH.\X in Xlncennes, Ind. As you can see, I have just diangcd jobs and moved here—only beginning to catch tip on my correspondence!** 
T. LAWRENCE DOORLEY has moved; present address is 247 Fifth, Prairie du Lac, Wis. 
V. J. SCIWEFFNER, 915 Lake Road, Grossc Point, Mich., has four children and is an attorney: "See J.ACK BREEN often, handle matters jointly from time to time with TED FELDMAN.** 
LEN REGAN, 2803 Third Ave., Great Falls, Mont., has four children and is divisional sales manager for llie Montana Power Co., Great Falls: "ED SHEERAN, '32, is no.v in Long Beach. Vis­ited here tliis summer—BUD GIES, '32, is living in Kalbpcll, Mont.; AL McIXTOSH is at Mcintosh Men's Shop, Great Falls: CL/VRENCE and LEO BE,VUL.AURIER are Building Contractors here. TOD DORj\N, JR., is now Wcstinghousc Represen­tative in this area. Had letters from JOHN GALLA and LEO BAINES." 
H. A. DOUVILLE, 124 W. Miller St., Alpena, Midi., married, no children, engineer with Michi­gan State Highway Dcpt.: "See JOE BREHLER, testing engineer. Michigan Slate Highway Dept. of .Ann Arbor, and C. A. VOGELHEIM, of Rogers City, Midi." 
I. if. MCLAUGHLIN, 2384 Guilford Rd., Cleve­land Heights, 0-, married; 1 child, food broker: "See very few. Saw FR;\N OELRICH in Florida. See Bob and Bill and JACK COLE.Mi\N (later dasses). Eat at CHUCK ROHR's place here quite often. Occasionally see GEORGE KOZAK. Sorrv to have 'FLO' .McCVRTHY leave Cleveland." (Ed. 
Note: Don't be. Understand he's back.) 
REV. FR^\NK J. HARRISO.N- (our class chap­lain), 259 E. Onondaga St., Syracuse, N. Y., as­sistant pastor. Cathedral of Immaculate Conception. 
LOUIS CHAWGO, 6509 S. Justine, Chicago 36, auditor, Chicago Carton Co. 
JOHN C. CAMERON, P.O. Box 105, Wayland, Mo., married, five children, farmer. 
BERNIE DeLAY, 401 Norfolk Ave., Norfolk, Neb., married, four children, cashier, DeLay Na­tional Bank: "Tlierc arc very few ND men out this way—once in a great while one will call but dam seldom." 
CHESTER A. BARBECK, 408 Brampton Drive, 
DeWitt, N. Y., married, one child; Soles Manager, Self-Conlaincd Units, Carrier Corp.: "No news— recently transferred here from Dallas, Ttx." 
B. T. CROSBY, 223 E. Monroe, Delphi, Ind., married, five children, Shaw-Barton Co. salesman. 
MAURY DeWALD, 426 W. Oakdaic, Ft. Wayne, Ind., married, five ditldren, merchant: "Saw JACK O'CONNOR at P.G.A. Golf Tournament. He resides in Peru, Ind. See JIM McGILL occasionally at K. of C. He is a fourth-degree knight." 
JOHN H. -McNAMARA, 227 .\'. Twyckenham, 
LEONARD TOSE, '37 

One of Pennsylvania's outstanding yoimg executives, Leonard Tose, mem­ber of the 1937 class, still finds time to be a tireless worker for Notre Dame. He is Treasurer of Tose, Inc., one of the largest trucking organizations in the East, and Vice President of Bev-Richj Inc., which produces and distributes those new types of soft drinks in cans wliich recently made their appearance in the national market. 
Len had the distinction of being President of the Association of Truck Owners in 1950-51, and is currently a member of the Board of Directors of Sacred Heart Hospital in Norristown, having recently been Chairman of that Institution's Fund Raising Campaign. In addition, he is a member of the Executive Committee of the Alhed Jewish Appeal. 
For some years he has been one of the most active members of the Phila­delphia Club, serving both as an officer and Governor. He is a past receipient of the award 'Man of the Year.' A devoted family man, Len's greatest pride is his charming wife and two voung daughters. 
South Bend, Ind., married, six children, prindpal, Washington High School, South Bend: "Saw JOE McCABE at reunion. (Yok. Hey, John—you*re letting an awful lot of good material get away to those heathen schools. Cross over tho bridge, kid!) 
JOSEPH a BREHLER, 1508 E. Park Place, Ann Arbor, Mich., married, two children; Michigan State Highway Dept. Engineer and asst. laboratory supervisor (see above). 
HENRY J. PRENDERGAST, 18 Yale Terrace, 
38 Noln Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
West Orange, N. J., married, four children, ac­count examiner. Veterans Administration; "Saw HARRY GROTTON, HUGH DEVORE, who is my neighbor, and CHARLES J. VAUGHAN, my I»rmcr roommate who \Tsits me when here.** 
JOHN F. SLOAN, JR., 218 N. Underhill St., Peoria, 111., attorney, of Cassidy, Sloan & Cassidy, married, no children. 
EDUARDO ROXAS, 42 McKinley Rd., Forbes Park, Makati, Rizal, Philippines, married, two children, managing partner, Roxas & Cia.: "Sec LUCIO MUNL\N, ED MASSA, ED SHEERAN, and MARVIN HUOT." 
WALTER J. LUTZ, 343 N. 26th St., Camp Hfll, Pa., married, one child, partner, Lutz Plumbing & Heating: "Sec JOHN .McNEIL. frequently. He lives here. Saw GIL PENDERGAST at shore this past summer." 
J. E. KENNEDY, 1313 Central Ave., S.Tndusky, O., married, one child, super\'isor, plant control. New Departure Di\'ision, General Motors. 
BILL HAWKES, 52 Paisley Rd., Richboro, Bucks County, Pa., married, two children, commander, US Na\y (director. Guided Missiles Dcpt.): "Saw PHIL FL/VHER'n" (now a law-\er in Lambcrtrillc, 
N. J.) also .MOON MULLINS and JERRY FIN-NERiVN. (Ed. Note: Thanks for the picture of the ND "Na\ys,'* Bill—w-c hope to use it.) 
ALVIN V. DRY.MALSKI, 6264 X. Knox, Chi­cago 30, married, two children, vice-president Polonia Coal Co. 
REV. .MAURICE POWERS, C.S.C, 139 S. Lopcx St., New Orleans, La., assistant pastor. Sacred Heart Chxu-ch. Father Powers saw somebody who was formerly .a It. col., U.S.A.—but, honest. Father, I couldn't read your w-riting! (Boy, how many priests have said that to me—revenge!) 
RAY G. REUL^\ND, 2319 N. 8th St., Sheboygan, Wis., married, one child, district manager. Pure Oil Co.: "Sa>v C. THOMAS DOWNS, attorney in Eau Claire, Wis.** 
JOSEPH H. CHURCH.NLVN, 1505 S. Walnut, Springfield, 111., CPA with Internal Revenue (hey, gu>*s—look!). Joe is married and has two children. He sa>-s: "Saw FR,\NCIS X. FALLON, JR., Grand Rapids, .Mich., lawyer, and RICIURD HOSTENY with F.B.I, in Springfield.'* (A business call, Joe?) 
JOHN F. BREEN, 16925 Normandy, Detroit, Mich., married, three children, manufacturer's agent: "Saw ED MORIARTY recently and regu­larly sec the following: VIC SCHAEFFNER, ER­NIE GARGARO, TED FELDMAN, JERRY ASH­LEY, and GEORGE BErVUDINE.** 
FR,\NCIS "SPIKE** DILLNUN, 9956 S. Arte­sian, Chicago 43, married, two children: "Am an engineer of Chicago Board of Education. Saw EDDIE BRITZ and PAUL HOST, who has Chev­rolet ageno' at Shawno, Wis.** 
DR. DOUGL,\S GIORGIO, M.D., 3317 Van Ness St. N.W., Washington 15, D. C, married, seven children. Doug is a commander in the Na\y*s Medical Corps, and his post is chief. Department of Anesthesiology, U. S. Na\-al Medical Center, Bethesda, Md., where your informant spent many a pleasant hour in sacktime. Lots of other NDs logged in and out there, too! Dcrug writes: **Rc­ceived Christmas cards from TOM SHERMAN, JOHN LEVSTIK, NOR.M BOWES, and the 'D. C. gang)—TIGHE WOODS, BILL S&\NLON, etc'* 
TIGHE WOODS, Leesburg, Va., married, three children. (Fine predecessor you are. Tiger—how about a contribution, now that you're out of cis'il service and only making money?) 

J. B. KENNY, I25I Barron Lake Rd., Niles, Mich., married, four children, plant metallurgist, Clark Equipment Co., Buchanan, Mich. 
A. T. RUPPE, 1323 E. South, SouUi Bend, Ind., married, three children, factory manager, BcndLx Products Div.: "The only one I hear from who didn't make the •20th* is T. C. PINKLEY. He's a big Shell gas dealer in Portagerille, Mo." 
WALTER J. KECKICH, 1024 Myrtle Ave., Whiting. Ind., married, four children, chief deputy prosecuting attorney. Lake County, Ind.: "I re­ceived a Christmas card from EDWARD 0*.\fAL-LEY (former secretary to FATHER O'HARA). He now lives in Bellcttllc, 111.** 
PHILIP J. RY/\N, 3466 Golden Way, Los Altos, Calif., married, 2 boys, with Union Oil Co. of California. 
JOHN J. SULLIVAN, 9850 Prospect Ave., Chi­cago 43, married, no diildrcn. salesman for Gar­ritv Co.: "Sec DON GARRITY, PAUL RIGALI, ADE BASKERVILLE, JOE DOCKENDORF, LOUIS CHREIST, L.\RRY STITT, JIM DAS­EHY, and ED GOESSELIS." 
LOREN J. HESS, 3303 N. Meridian, Indian­apolis, Ind., married, no children, assistant pro­fessor, di%'ision of Social Service. Indiana Univer­sitv: "Saw AL ARTZ of Soutli Bend, ray brother-in-law; BOB BRUCKER, South Bend; JLM ASH, Elkhart; BOB LEWIS, Indianapolis; E. R. RO­MINE of Oakland, Calif." 
RICHARD N. HOSTE.\Y, 421 S. 6th St., Springfield, 111., married, seven children, special agent in charge. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Springfield. 
HiVRRY SHCOLNIK, 1116 E. Bronson, South Bend, married, six children AND TWO GR,\ND­CHILDREN. (.-Vny other grandfathers in the class? Let us know!) Harry is manager of Kewpec's, "the Number 1 Notre Dame hangout.** (Things haven*t changed Uien, Harri", since MO LEE, DON WISE, JOE KIRINCICH and this man used to dig into those "specials.**) 
FRED BECKLENBERG, JR., 865 Auburn Road, Wmnetka, married, seven children, realtor: "Noth­ing I can add to your own information about the local crowd, Joe, but welcome this opportunity to offer the class my sincerest best wishes and hopes for God's blessings." 
J.^MES L. BANKER, 2688 Scabrough, Cleveland 
BUFFALO—Notre Dame alunini who attended the Greater BufTalo Advertising Club luncheon which featured Terry Brennan as guest speaker. 
^VILLIAM L. TRAVIS, '27 

One of die outstanding civic leaders in Hammond, Indiana, is William L. Travis, a member of the 1927 class. Bill graduated from Notre Dame magna cum laude with an LL.B. degree and is senior partner in the law firm of Travis and Tinkham. He was admitted to the Indiana Bar the same year he gradu­ated. 
Since 1946 he has been secretary of the Indiana Truckers' Association and is vice-chairman of the Indiana Amer­ican Red Cross. He is a member of the American Judicature Society and a member of the Hammond Park Board. Bill is a past president in both the Hammond Bar Association and Ham­mond Lions Club. 
He has been active as chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation in his local area. Bill and his wife reside at 7126 Jefferson Ave., Hammond, Ind.. 
Heights 6, O., married, four children, account 
executive, D*.Arc>' Advertising Co. 
LAWRENCE J. STriT, 22M Alger Rd., Lake­wood 7, O., married, no children, chief engineer, drafting division, NAC.-\. 
LOUIS O. STAELENS, married, five children. Coder Road, Matunee, O., assistant controller. 
EDWARD A. OLCZAK, married, three children, 441 S. Lake, South Bend, chief deputy prt>seculor, St. Joseph County, Indiana. 
HAROLD E. POHLMAYER, 1320 S. Nonis, Mexico, Mo., assistant treasurer, Mexico Refrac­tories Co.: "I have seen a few ND graduates; but the last classmate I saw was ED GOESSELIN in Chicago.** 
CHARLES .M. LOUGHREY, 65 Boyce Place, Ridgewood, N. J., married, five children, zone sales manager, N. Y. branch. Burroughs Corp. 
Noire Dame Aluiiinut, August-September, 1954 39 
GEORGE AUG, 356 Don Lane, Cincinnati 38, O., married, four children, ou-ner, Dair>' By-Prod­iicti Co.: "Heard from JOE CLARK, 350 N. Church, Poughkeepsie, N. Y., u-ho is nou- home on vacatitm after four years in Sumatra with Stand-aid Oil." 
PAUL A. BLONDIN, 47 Atuaicr St., New Haven, Conn., married, four children, secrelar>* of printing industry trade association, and treasurer of JOHN W. SHIELDS, Inc., trade tj-pograpliy plant: "Just added our fourth heir as I write this. He's a boy. Now have a daughter, 15, son 12, son 10 plus the new arrival. My wife is an Al­bertus Magnus graduate." (Ed. Xole: Your wife might know my cousins, Pat McCabe and her sister Irene, also Albertus Magnus grads.) 
JAMES B. CLARK, 5i Kensington Ave., Jersey 

City, N. J., married, three bo\'s, executive ricc­
presidcnt, James B. Clark. Inc., Real Estate & In­
surance. "Keep up the good work, Joe. I nomi­
nate FATHER CHUCK SHEEDY as the 'man of 
the year' for our class and urge we begin a pro­
gram of naming such designations ever>' year. I 
go to all Notre Dame affairs in New Jersey but 
never see any one from our class—no one ever 
comes to Jersey City and I can't get out—broke. 
Reason? James B. Clark, Jr., is a sophomore at 
Xotrc Dame—any one in the class beat that? Nice 
idea on this mailing program—now you will get 
actioru Do it right and vou can get 310,000 by 
1958." (Ed. Xoic: HEY JI.M, WH.\TT.AYA MEAN 
"DO IT RIGHT"? TELL ALL—WE COULD 
USE THE TEN GRAND. JOE.) 
R. J. FURSTOSS, 112 Callcnder Ave., Peoria, III., married, 2 children, assistant director of re­search, Caterpillar Tractor Co. 
THOMAS A. .MISTERLY, 1733 Virginia Place, 

S. Pasadena, Calif., married, two cliildren, instru­mentation engineer, Lockheed Aircraft Co.: "Saw GENE CALHOUN, but not many out here from 1933." 
RAYMOND J. NABER, 125 Fairmcade Rd., Louis\iIlc, Ky., married, 3 children, ofHce manager, Cochran Foil Products Co.: "Saw F. SETON STALEY, CARROLL STALEY, and JI.M GIL­FOIL, also FRANK HURLEY." 
HOWARD FISCHER, 210 Larrii Ave., Elmhurst, 111., married, six children, director of publications. National Retail Furniture .Association: "Nobodv from '33 but see JOE MURRAY, '32, and GEORGE CALHOlHv'. 'M or '35—Joe's with Local Loan and George at Pure Oil. Couldn't make 20th reunion, but see you at 25th. Regards." 
JERRY GREER, married, no children, 180 N. Michigan, Chicago, regional manager, motor truck division. International Har\-csier Co.: "Just moved back Into Chicago after three years in Detroit so have not seen any one yet. Will get in touch soon." 
D. E. GARRITY, 122nd St. and 93rd Ave., Palos Park, 111., married, two children, secretary, Gar­rity Co.: "Sec PAUL RIGALI, LOUIS CHREIST, JACK SULLIVAN, P.\UL OESCHENSCHLAGER, and EDDIE GOESSELIN." 
DR. ROBERT E. DONOVAN. NLD., 110 Gray. Arlington, Mass., ph>-sician and general surgeon, married, five children: "Attended Communion Breakfast of Boston Club last vcar with JACK SAUNDERS." 
BROTHER JUDE, C.S.C. (COSTELLO), St, Gregory's High School, Dacca, East Pakistan, re­ligious superior of the Brothers: "Have heard from you, Joe. Please tell the class we just completed a deal for property for a technical school to be com­pleted in Dacca, Best wishes to all." 
W. LAWRENCE SEXTON, 1457 N. Delax^-are, Indianapolb, married, no iJiildren, realton "Heard from ED .MORIARTY, C B. LANAHAN, Vin­ccnnes, Ind., FATHER JIM DONNELLY in Texas, MARION BLAKE, Oklahoma, BOB LEPPERT, 
Los Angeles. Attended National Real Estate Board Con\'ention in L. A. ^Vent from there to Hono­lulu and then back to see N.D. game." 
RALPH J. WELTE, 2010 Court, Pueblo, Colo., married, 3 children, president. Summit Brick Co. 
TOM DOWNS, 710/2 5th A\-e., Eau Claire, Wis., attorae>-: "Saw RAY REULAND, JACK KEAT­ING, who is almost a neighbor." 
ROBE J. PURCELL, 1434 Ottawa Ave., Ottawa, IlL, married, 2 children, attorney: *'I was actually in class of '32 so I have no news of '33. Best regards to all, however." 
SABBY J. ADDONIZIO, 545 Sandford Ave.. Newark 6, N. J., married, one child, recreation 
REYNOLDS C. SEITZ, '29 

The dean of the Marquette Univer­sity School of Law, recently appointed, is Reynolds C. Seitz, member of the 1929 class at Notre Dame. Reynolds has broad experience in the practice of law, in public administration, and in public relations and public speaking. He had been director of the Chicago division of Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism. 
He received a master's degree in edu­cation administration from Northwest-em and was awarded a bachelor of laws from Creighton. Re>Tiolds practiced law in Omaha, in addition to being a member of the faculty at Creighton and assistant to the superintendent of public schools. 
In 1943 he was senior attorney for the national labor relations board in Washington, D. C , and later served in the same capacity for Montgomery Ward & Co. Besides teaching at Me­dill, Reynolds has also been conducting at the graduate level a course at North­western in public relations. He is the father of four daughters, Eileen, 10; Kathleen, 7; Dianne, 4: and Louise, 3. 
directon "Saw PAT TROY. RAY TROY, SAL COMMISA, HUGH DEVORE. Had a call from MARTY McKEOWN, had a card from LUCIEN MUNIAN from Mexico; couldn't make 20th. Re­gards to all." 
DONALD F. WISE, 110 Pleasant, JoUet, lU., unmarried, attorney, sends best regards to all. (Ed. Note: Fine roomie—not e\*cn a "beefing" letter! And how about J. KIRINCICH?) 
C. J. HESS, 40^ S. Hohnes, Lansing, Mich., mar­ried, four children, deputy state personnel director. 
Midiigan Civil Service Commission: "Heard from TOM GRIMES, now of Chicago. My friends might like to know that I rccuved an MA de­gree in Public Administration in 1950 from Michi­gan State College. (Ed. Note: I trust this had nothing to do with that football score, Charley?) 
CHARLES M. RYAN. 9611 Glencrest Lane, Kensington, Md., married, four children, assistant general counsel. National Labor Relations Board: "Saw JOHN L. KENKEL, my brother-in-law, 425 Wellington Rd., Alexandria, Va." 
GEORGE T. PAREDE, 1702 59ih St., Kcno&ha, Wis., married, tlirec children, editor Kenosha Labor. "Saw 'CHUCK' JASKWICH, local high school athletic director." 
FATHER MICHAEL A. FORAN, C.S.C., Notre Dame Mission House, 1100 Forest Ave., Evanslon, 111.: "TIic Notre Dame ^lission Band now lives here in Expansion, of which I am a member. FATHERS ROBERT WAIDE and BERNARD PEGE/\RSKI arc co-workers witli me on the Mission Band. We extend a hearty welcome to all our classmates of '33 and all ND men in the Chicago area to stop off and see us when they are up this way. HARRY O'BOYLE of ND football fame and his lovely family live right across the street. Wc'vu become close and friendly neighbors. Best wi-shes to all." 
AL DO.MBROSKY, 1080 N. Main, Brockton, Mass.. married, three children, district sales mana­ger, Hathaway Bakeries, Inc., Brighton: "I have a twin combo, Mark and Greg, for TERRY BREN­NAN in a few years, and a daughter, Mar>iynn, for St. Mary's. That is my hope and dream. Be­tween work and family I have had little time for other diveiiions. (Ed. Note: Tlicrc are OTHER diversions? Give my regards to JOE CONDON, if he's still in Brfx:kton, and if you're ever in North .Attlcboro, say hello to my mother, Mrs. Maude .\rcCabe. 30 Church St. JAM) 
PAUL M. GEORGE, 7365 Maryland, St, Louis. Mo., married, four children, secretary of the 
P. D- George Co. 
LUCIEN KEMPF, Box 75, Lindsay, Oklahoma, married, two boys, broomcom broker: **Saw GEORGE ROHRS in N. Y.; meant to call JIM ROSS in Brooklyn but couldn't get to it; got nice card from FATHER JIM DONNELLY in Lam­pCKa, Texas." (Ed. Note: Lucien is our Western vice-president—send him any news notes you might have, westerners!) 
JOHN M. CRIMMINS, 5519 Darlington, Pitts­burgh 17, P2U, married, eight children, assistant chief counsel, Koppers Co., Inc. 
BILL GOSSELIN, 1609 Prairie Rd., Aurora, HI., married, 1 child, manager Hotel Aurora: "Heard from BILL BLIND, now a law^-cr in New York Cit>-, and SAL BONTEMPO, in local politics in Newark, N. J," 
F. J. FOGARTY, 2736 Duncan, St. Joseph, Mo., married, one child, president, Fogarty Co.: "Our store is on 9th and Mitchell Av, on U. S. High\*-ay 36 in St. Joe Will enjoy seeing any men of '33 and all ND men. A 'tall cool one' in the summer and a 'hot one* in the winter is on tap for all." 
PAUL M. CALLAGHAN. 308 Castalia St., Belle­\*ue, O., married, fotu* children, publisher of the Belle\-uc Gazette. 
JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY, 136 DeWindt Rd., Winnetka, 111., married, five children, attome>*, heard from DON SCHNABEL, ED SULLIVAN, and loud beefs from all members of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, of which he is president. 
C. F. HAFRON. Glenview, lU (CIC Staff Plan­ning), married, two children, commander, U. S. Navy—na\"al aviator: "Flew into South Bend for a fc%v- hours—\-i5ited with GEORGE ROHRS, JOE KURTH, almost had my picture taken—or did I? Have had three tours of duty in Korea, and have returned each time by the grace of God. Attended party in Elmhurst with BERT METZGER." 
REGIS McNAMARA, 32 Oak St.. Binghamton, 
N. Y., married, two boys, dty cn^eer, Bingham­ton: "Saw JOE BYRNE and his son Joe and SAL BONTEMPO while in Newark. I believe Sal will be the mayor of Neu-ark one of these days." (Ed. Note—Hi Regis—see JIM CARMODY now and again—he sends best.) 
EDWARD BEAHM, 611 Leland, South Bend, married, two children, industrial sales engineer. Red Jacket Coal Corp., Columbus, O. 
•40 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-Septembrr, 1954 
ED GOESSEUN, 9057 S. Hoync, Chicago, mar­ried, five children, owner Kool Rite Sales Co., Pabst Blue Ribbon Distributor: "Sec DON GAR­RITY, FRANK MATABO\VSKY, LARRY SIER." 
L. E. "BUD" MURPHY, 440 S. Chesterfield, Columbus, C , married, five children, president The Murphy Co. 
DR. DAVID POWERS, 7636 113 St., Forest Hills, N. Y., professor. Queens College, writer of over 23 books, and lecturer, married, one boy: "Latest book, *How to Say a Few Words,' pub­lished by Doubleday." 
DAVID S. MADILL, Mar-Main Apis., 125 W. Marion, South Bend, Ind., attorney*, Aetna Casual­ty & Surety Co., married, no children. 
THOMAS J. MORE, 1512 E. Grove. Blooming-tun, III., married, one cliild, dentist. 
FR.\NCIS HENNINGFELD, 222 E. .\avarrc. South Bend, Ind., married, three children, principal of elementary school. 
DANIEL J. CASEY, 7712 East End, Chicago 49, married, three children, director. Engineering Div., Atomic Energy Comm.: "Saw GENE COYNE and family in Pituburgh, LARRY SMITH and other members of Pitt Club." 
BROTHER CHRYSOSTOM (SCHAEFER), 

C.S.C. (Edgar E.), Marine, Madison County, III. "Residence is in Community House, Notre Dame— seldom see '33's." 
'33s in the Chicago news include JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, mentioned above as president of tlic local alumni club .. . and TONY WIRRY, our back-when student football manager, svhosc name appears several times a week over some damiinc news stories and feature articles in the financial section of the Chicago Tribune. Tony lives at 715 Asbury, Evanston, 111. From time to time I'll give you these local news items as they occur to mt.—and look, when they occur to you— you send 'cin to ME. Deal? 
JOE SHEEKETSKI has recently been appointed an assistant coadi to HUGH DEVORE at Dayton University. 
The Rev. DONULUS BRIDENSTINE, C.S.C., has been cited by the Army for meritorious scr\'ice as a cliaplain while on duty in Korea. He was awarded an oak leaf cluster in lieu of a second brotue star medal. Father Bridcnstine entered the Army in 1942. 
CHARLIE FARRIS is executive director for the Land Clearance for Redevelopment Authority. His office address is 206 City Hall, St. Louis, Missouri. 
m 09 A ^ ' E<lward Carey ' '* ^ 18843 Inglewood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE ANTHONY ANZLOVAR, ANDREW AUTH, MI­CHAEL BALOG, JOHN BEGLEY, JOHN BIRCH, GENE BLISH, DANIEL BRICK, JOHN BURNS, ROBERT BUTLER, THOMAS BYRNE, ROBERT CAHILL, JOHN CARR, ROBERT CHENAL, EM­METT CONKLING, JOHN CONLEY, CLYDE CRAINE, EDWIN CUNNINGHAM, MAURICE CURRAN, THOMAS DALTON, THOMAS DA­VID, JOHN DEVINE, THOMAS DUGAN, WIL­LIA.M DUSCH, REV. SEBASTIAN EGAN, O.F..M., JAMES F. FAGAN, VINCENT FEHLIG, SALVATORE FERRARI, HUGH FITZGERALD, GARVIN FRANSIOLI, WALTER FRANSIOLI, DAVID FROELICH, THADDEUS GABRESKI, MAURICE GARLAND, JAMES GARLAND, JAMES GLEASON, EDWIN GRAHAM, THOMAS GRIMES, JOHN HAGAN, JOSEPH HANRATTY, JOHN HAYES, CHARLES HECKELMANN, LEO HENDRICKS, D. BERNARD HENNESSY, CHARLES JAHR, FRANK JEHLE, REV. CHARLES KARNASIEWCZ, RICHARD KEL­LEY, ERWIN KIEP, GEORGE KOHS, EDWARD KRAUSE, PAUL LAFRAMBOISE, BILL LEWIS, FRANK LINTON, ROBERT LOCHER, FRANK McCANN, EDWARD McCARTHY, ROBERT Mc-DONOUGH, FRANCIS McGAHREN, AL Mc-GUFF, DONALD McINTOSH, JOHN McLAUGH-LIN, JOHN McNERNEY, GEORGE MALONEY, PAUL MANOSKI, ANTHONY MARRA, JOHN MARTIN, GEORGE KURTINET, GEORGE MENARD, MELVIN MEYERS, DUKE MILL­HEAM, KENNETH MONTIE, EDWARD MO­RAN, JAMES MORRISON, RAYMOND MOR­RISSEY, REV. JAMES MOSCOW, WILLIAM MOTSETT, RICHARD MULLEN, DR. JAMES MURPHY, THOMAS OAKES, EDWARD O'BRIEN, FRANK O'BRIEN, WILLUM 
J. THOMAS TRIXLER, '47 

Gilbert C. Van Camp, president and board chairman of the Van Camp Sea Food Co., Inc., has announced the election of J. Thomas Trixler, Portland, Ore., and a member of Notre Dame's 
1947  class,  t o  th e  company' s  senior  
boar d  of  directors.  
Followin g  graduatio n  from  Notr e  

Dame, Tom joined the Van Camp Co., 
in their Los Angeles branch. In 1949 
he was appointed manager of the Ore­
gon territory. Four years later Tom 
and his brother started the Trixler 
Brokerage Co. 
Tom is a member of the Waverly 
Country Club and the Multnomah Ath­
letic Club in Portland. His hobbies are 
golf and duck hunting. He is married 
and the father of three children. 
O'BRIEN, JOH.N O'CO.N'NOR, RICHARD O'CON­NOR, JOHN O'NEIL, LARRY O'NEILL, JOHN PAVLICK, WILLIAM PO>VELL, CHARLES QUINN, JACK QUIRK, NORBERT RASCHER, VINCE REISH.M,\N, RUSSELL RICKUS, GEORGE ROCHELEAU, HARRY ROCKETT, HARVEY ROCKWELL, ALBERT SALEH, REV. EDWARD SEWARD, J. ALBERT SMITH, RAY­.MOND TROY, JOSEPH V0EGELE, HOWARD WALDRON, WILLIA.M WOLF, JOHN WOL­LACK AND JOHN YOUNGEN. 
HUGH DEVORE is the new head coach at the University of Dayton. Hughic had been an assist­ant on the Green Bay Packers staff last year. 
EDWARD F. FITZ.MAURICE has been named product sen*ice manager for Swans Down products in the General Foods Corporation. Ed is a resi­dent of Chappaqua, N. Y. 
JOHN T. CASEY has become associated in the practice of admiralty and administrativa law with Milton C. Grace. He is located in the Warner Building, Washington 4, D. C. 
lO ^EAR^ HEUNION JUNE 10-11-IX 
FranUyn C Hochrdter 

1935 
1327 Pcntwood Road Baltimore 12, Maryland 

CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE CHARLES BOLGER, PHIL HEINLE AND ' JOHN LOGAN. 
Well gang, it loolu as though we might begin to have a column again after many months of "fill" which came directly out of the Alumni OfBce. The turning point came with the questionnaire. And you know, it actually set off enough enthusiasm in several of the crowd to write honest to gosh letters. That was ^vorth a great deal in itself. NOW WE HAVE NEWS! The Class of *35 hai returned to life! 
^[ay we say at the outset that the Alumni Office deser\-es our thanks for the major part of the work in getting out the questionn^ure. All we had to do was mail it. Our job has been one of- tabu­lating the results. And they are very interesting as we hope you will agree. He had hoped the returns ^v•ouId be greater than they were. Apparent­ly the end of the news Hne has been reached snce there were no returns during tha past week and, now on June 12 we are attempting to make oar deadline. 
Including our own, there are 13S questionnaires on file. Our class, by our approximate current count, runs just under 500. This means that re­sponses have been received from about 27 percent of the class. While this is a good start, it is far from overwhelming. What has happened to the other 73 percent of the '35ers? Could it be that they are not interested? Or maybe they just didn't get around to filling in the questionnaire. Whatever the reason, we are going to try to persuade the Alumni Office to do a repeat malUng. Maybe a teo­ond shot at those who did not respond will bring in another 23 to 30 perctint. If it does It will be Well worth the effort. 
Of those 138, 100 are planning to return to our twentieth reunion in 1955. Twenty-nine more will make it if it is possble, and 9 do not plan to be with us. One of thoso 9 is dead, another is in Tok)!}, and several are teachers who will be tied up with finab or commencements. But some othen seem to have no particular reason for not coming, including distance. The 29 "possibles" indicate business uncertainty may affect their plans or It is too early to make firm commitments. At least two of them must make plans to come back to the mainland from Hawaii and Puerto Rico. 
The 100 chalked up in the **comIng** column live in all parts of the country, from California to Massachusetts and from Minnesota to Louisiana. There is, of course, a large bulk from the non-coastal states. It is upon >'ou 100 enthusiasts that we must depend to get tho others out. Write letters to your friends and even those you have not seen in a long while. Let*s start the pep meeting roll­ing. Talk up the twentieth reunion every chance that you have. If >*ou do, we'll break all records— AND THAT'S OUR GOAL! 
No>v- to some of the interesting statistics drawn from the questionnaire tabulations. Here they are in brief form: Total—138; married—127; single—5; rcligious-T-€; children—^383 (and 3 more on the way); boys—190; girls—193. 
Of the 127 married *35er3, 6 have no children and one has 10. Another has 9 and none has 8. There is one grandfather among the crowd. Our class seems to specialize in 4 children, since. 30 men came up with that number. The second and third spots were held by 2 children with 28 men and 3 chUdcca with 27 men. These three top classes accounted for 157 of the children. 
Giving you the total figures, it looks like this; 1 child—18 families and 18 children; 2 children—2t families and 56 children; 3 children—^27 families and 81 children; 4 children—30 families and 120 dul­dren; 5 children—9 families and 45 childrett; £ children—^3 families and 30 children; 7 duldren— 2 families aiKl 14 chilflren; 8 children—none, none; 9 children—1 family and 9 children; ten chUdrei^* 1 family and 10 children. 
Notre Dam€ Alumnus, AugustStpUmbtr, i95# H 
One of our 138 reported classmates is dead; two others have lost their Mves. 
We have tabulated 23 occupations from the questionnaires and we hope that our guesses are ooirect where we had to make the decision, some­times with the help of the DOME. Seventeen men hzvK been entered in ti.vo occupational groups as follows: coach-teacher, 3; priest-teacher, 3; brother-teacher, 1; real estate-insurance, 2; engineering-business, 3; social work-teacher, 1; law-business, 2; law-banker, 1; and brother-librarian, 1. 
This is how the total breakdown looks ^v'hen spread out across the 138 replies received; Priest— 4; Brother—2; Doctor—8; Dentist—1; Lau->-cr—18; &i^necr—18; Architect—2; Social Worker—^5; Coach—I; Teacher—9; Business Man^—54; Banker— 6; >fortidan—2; Insurance Man—11; Real Estate Broker—3; and 1 each for the following: Publisher, Bacteriologist, G-Man, Librarian, Revenue Agent, 
U. S. Bank Examiner, Department of Defense Staff, and Newspaper Editor. There you have 155 in total. 
An interesting storj* is told by the above sta­tistics. Let's get the rest of the class tabulated for the record. As wc go along giving you the word on each of the men who replied we will tell you the occupation ^ve have used. If we have made a mistake, how about a correction from you? 
And now, before we get into the questionnaires, may we take notice of a death reported in the latest ALUMXUS. JIM DE\^RS died on February 20 and is sunived by his wife. Xo children reported. To Mrs. Devcrs we extend the s^Tupathy of the Class. 
Also, to FRANK HOLAHAN, who made the latest \ital statistics column for Births may we extend tnir congratulations on Rita Louise bom March 4. Of course we think Louise deserves a little credit too. 
Coming now to our news reporting from the field we want you to know that we will attempt to gi\'e >-ou 50 men per trip to press. 'We'll diWde them in the alphabet, taking them from the begin­ning, the end and the middle. In that way we think we can be most equitable. Here goes! 
GEORGE BARBER, I8I3 N. 22nd St., Lawton, 

Okla., is V-P of the American National Bank in 
La^s'ton. He and wife Phyllis have a son Steve, 11, 
and a daughter Terrj*, 6. George hopes to return 
for the reunion and wants to hear from BILL 
SCH\nDT and GENE ^\T^2GER. (So would we 
George!) George took his Masters in business ad­
ministration at U. of Okla. ^vhere he met his wife. 
PAUL BEICHNER is now a priest of the Holy 
Cross Congregation at Notre Dame. He is Dean 
of the Graduate School of the University and will 
be at reunion. 
BILL BERNARD, 2154 Lindsay Rd., Springfield, 111., is a physician and surgeon- His wife is Anne and they have 2 sons: Bill, Jr., 8, and Robert, 1 week (now around 2-3 months); and 2 daughters: Frances, 4, and Patricia, V/s- Bill plans to fly to reunion and asks that a landing strip be installed before next June. 
BILL BERNBROCK, 2910 Forest Hill Ct., Mo­line, m., is an architect. He and wife Madge have 2 sons: John, 5, and Chris, 1; and 2 daughters: Mary Frances, 10 and Cecelia, 12. Bill tvooild like to hear from any and all in '35 who studied archi­tecture. He invites all '35ers to stop in to see him and he looks forward to the 20-year reunion. 
BEN BEYRER, 1380 As^-\um .Ave., Hartford, Conn., is Associate Professor at the University of Connecticut, School of Social Work. Ben's wife is Helen and they have two children—^ son Timothy, 7, and a daughter Elizabeth Ellen, 5. He would like to hear from JOHN BURKE, DICK BALL­MAN and ED KILMURRAY. (When you hear from them, Ben, urge them to write us, please. And tell JOHN McCLURG to drop us a note.) 
DICK BIGGINS, 19 Highmeadow Rd., Manhas­set, N. Y., is ^^'orks Manager, P>Tofax Gas Corp., at 30 E. 42nd St., N.Y.C. (We've got you classified as engineer, Dick.) He gave no name to his w*ife, but they have two daughters: Mary Ann, 11, and Patricia, 7. Dick would like to hear from BILL "RED" WATERS in Marion, Ohio. He got his &LS.E. from Michigan in '37 and worked with Linde Air Products in Indianapolis till '53 when he transferred to N.Y.C Yes, he*s coming to the retmion. 
JIM BOWDREN, Prospect St., West Newbury, Mass., is a manufacturer's agent. (You're down as business, Jim). Wife Mar>* and Jim have a son by the same name who is 10. Jim moved from Bloom­field Hills, AEdi., in '53 and bought a 150-year-old house. He's raising mallard ducks as a hobby. 
Another reunion man for '55. 
JERRY BOYLE is a priest of the Holy Cross 
Congregation and is presently Head of the Philos­
ophy Dept. at the Universit>' of Portland, Portland, 
Oregon. Jerry ^vas ordained in *45, taught at N.D. 
for a period, spent a year in Europe and then was 
shipped out to Portland. He just completed a term 
as President of the Northwest American Catholic 
Philosophical Association. Jerry is a possible re­
imionist. 
ART BROWN, 511 Ansonia St., Toledo, Ohio, is a food broker. His wife, Lucille, and he have a son—Dick. (No age stated.). Art has been in the food brokerage business for the past fifteen years. He reports he sees neither hide nor hair of any '35crs and ver>* little of his own hair. Art will be there in '55. 
PAUL BRUMBY, American Embass>-, Tofc>o, 
A.P.O. 500, c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Califor­nia, is legal officer at the American Embassy in Tok>*o. Paul's wife is not listed by name but they have two sons: Paul, 14, and 'William, 3; as well as two daughters: Lynn, 12, and Ruth, 2. Business in Tokyo will keep Paul away from reunion. 
JOSEPH BURCH, 570 East Vista Way, Vista, California, is a dentist. Joe and wife Penelope have four children—two sons: Timothy Carl, 4, and Thomas Paul, 1; two daughters: Barbara Helen, 6, and Christine Katherinc, 5. Paul took his dental surgery degree in Maryland at the Baltimore Col­lege of Dental Surger>- in 1941. After a few months In pri\-atc practice In the east, the Na\-y got Joe and he resigned as a Lt. Commander in 1950. He practiced a while in Barstow, Calif., and then built his own office in Vista. Joe wants to hear from ED ENGLISH. (Thanks for the word about families at reunion, Joe. ^Ve are for it and wc note a number of the men feel as yoxi do. We'll look into a program.) 
CLARE BURGER was killed in an explosion at 
the Trojan Powder Co. In San Lorenzo, Calif., 
where he w*as plant superintendent, on March 2, 
1954. His ^rife. Marguerite, and his four children 
survive him. There are three daughters: Frances, 
Judith and Jane; and a son—Frederick, Mrs. 
Bui^cr filled out the questionnaire and returned it 
v*ith a lovely letter. The Burgers were transferred 
to California from Allentown, Pa., two years ago. 
Clare's death occurred when he attempted to help 
three of his employees saw a piece of scrap pipe for 
a clothes pole. Friction heat from the power 
hacksaw Is believed to have exploded the pipe 
which was impregnated with explosive powder, ^frs. 
Burger and the children were returning to her 
home in Ohio at the close of school. Clare's family 
lives at 54 S. Main St., Rittman, Ohio. They are 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred J. Burger. To them and his 
wife and children we extend our sincere sympathy. 
(Thank you Mrs. Burger for so kindly sending us 
the questionnaire, the letter and the news clipping.) 
BILL A. BURKE, 29(H WUlow ^Vay, Ports­
mouth, Ohio, is an attorney and manufacturer. He 
did not give the name of his wife, but they have 
sbc children—four sons and two daughters. The 
boys arc William, 12; Jeffrey, 8; Martin, 6; and 
John, 4; the daughters are: Alison, 10, and Barbara, 
15. Bill would like to make reunion. 
JIM CARRICO, 2905 So. Fourth St., Louisville, Kentucky, Is Office Manager for a ^\^lolcsale Ap­pliance Distributor. Jim is among those single and he does not plan to return for reunion. 
VIC a\RTON, 80-09 35th .Ave., Jackson Heights, 
N. Y., is a traveling salesman for the "Vitality* Shoe Co. covering New York, New Jersey, Penns>ivaiiia and Delaware. \'ic and wife, Margaret, have two daughters: Christine, 6, and Catherine, 6 months. He has been with "Vltalitj- Shoe Co. since gradua­tion. (That's some kind of record, \^c.) JACK BRAYMER and "LEFTY" DUNN arc being paged to write to Vic (How about filling out your ques­
tionnaire for us, you gu\-s?) Vic will be at N.D. in '55. 
TOM CEMON is a priest in parish \vork in Houston, Texas. Tom Is at St. Michael's Rectory, imi Post Oak Rd., Houston 19, Texas. He would like to hear from BOB BYRNES and BOB GAN­NON. (So would we, Tom.) Tom writes that he helped organize the N.D. Club of Houston and was named "N.D. Man of the Year" in *53. He was ordained in '39. He hopes to make the reunion. 
BILL COEN, Afton, Iowa, Is a mortician. BUI and wife, Cecelia, have a son. Bill, Jr., 13, and a daughter, Mary, 2. He says he sees IRWIN (PAT) CROTTY every year at the Customs Office at In­ternational Falls, Minn., as he goes through en 
RICHARD A. BLOOM, '30 

Richard A. Bloom, Vice President and Director of Sales in charge of the Special Sales Divisionj Oneida Ltd., has been named Vice President and Gen­eral Sales Manager. In his new posi­tion Mr. Bloom \vdll have the responsi­bility for marketing all of Oneida Ltd.'s more than fort)' trade-marks. 
Dick graduated cum laude from Notre Dame in 1930. After a brief career in the Oneida office, he became manager of the leased silverware de­partment in Dey Brothers Company in Syracuse, New York. In 1935 he joined the Community Division sales force, and in 1939 he became Sales Manager of the HoUowware Division. During World War II he was Manager of the War Production Division. In 1943 he was Sales Manager of the AVm. A. Rogers Division, and in 1945 Director of Sales for the Oneida-Rogers and Sterling Divisions. He was elected Vice President in 1948. 
Dick is married to the former Gert­rude Viola Duggan. They have two sons. He is a member of the 24 Karat Club and the Knights of Columbus. 
route to a Canadian fishing spree. (What's Pat's history and job?) Bill will be with us at reunion. ART CONRAD, 3601 North Harding Ave., Chi­cago 18, III., is president of The Heritage Founda­tion. (We've got you classified as a publisher. Art.) Wife, Vir^nia, and Art have two and tt^-o. Daughters Carol Ann and Mar>* Lynn are 13 and 11; sons -Charles Joseph and Mark Francis are 7 and 3. Art's foundation has published three books which are getting \nde circulation. They are Manion's "Key to Peace"; Keller's "Christianity and American Capitalism" and McCarran's "Fa­
42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1954 
bianism in the Political life of Britain—19iy to 
1931." Yes, he'll be at reunion. 
JOHN SHANER, 25 Bellerive Acres, Normandy 20, Mich., is a surseon. He and wife Ruth have three children. Sons Michael, Thomas and Kevin are H, 7 and 5 respectively. John Is coming to re­union in *55. 
BOB SHIELDS, 1822 Grand Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich., is plant manager for the Klover Gold Milk Co. He and Dorotliy have a son Mike, 1; and three daughters: Pat, 15; Joanie, 10 and Kathy. 7. Chalk up another for *55. 
ED SIMPSON, N.D. Club of Chicago, Suite 649, 38 S. Dearborn St., Chicago 3, 111. (we'd like a home address on you Ed—please?), is District Sales Manager—Special Services—for the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. Ed's wife is Dorothy and together they have a daughter, Gail, who is 13. Ed says he spends most of hb time in Civil Defense work and in "beating the dnun" for the Redcmplorists. They've just started a fund drive for a new re­treat house. He'll be at N.D. in '55. 
FRANK SINNOTT, 22nd Street and Lehigh .•\vcnue, Philadelphia 32, Pa., is with the Phiico Corporation (position unknown). Frank's wife is Lorraine. Tliey have one and one—daughter Lor­raine, 7, and son John. 4. (Please tell your attor­ney, RAY BRODERICK, to get that brief filled in for us!) Frank thinks it may not be possible to make reunion. 
KURT SIMON, 1216 East Wayne No., South Bend, Indiana, is Sales Manager for Simon Bros., Inc., Wholesale Grocers. Wife Tcssy and Kurt have a son, Robert, who is 6. Kurt would like to hear from HARRY SHEPARD. Kurt will be on hand in '55 and we hope with more of those delicious herring which bis wife whipped up. 
L.\RRY SMITH, 205 East Fifth St., East Liver­pool, Ohio, is a lawyer in general practice. He and wife Elizabeth have three daughters and a son. Lawrence III is 4 and Cynlliia is 6. We think Maureen and Isabel are twins at 7 months. (Cor­rection in order, Larry?) At the moment Larry is uncertain about reunion. 
PAUL STAUB, 15087 ^Vard Ave., Detroit 27, Mich., is an attorney. He and Jean Elizabeth have two daughters: Mar>' Margare:, 13, and Barbara Jean, 3. Paul took his law degree from U. of Detroit in '47 and has been in the same laiv firm which he joined as a student in *45. Plans for reunion arc indefinite for Paul. But, in the mean­time he would like to hear from JOHN GL:\NZ­NER and ADAM DRAWER. 
WESLEY STREHL, 2714 Kimball Ave., Memphis, 11, Tenn., is an engineer. Wes and wife Thclma have no children. He does not state with whom he is working. If possible, AVes will be with us in '55. He'd like to hear from JOHN MURPHY. 
TO.M STRINGER, 901 -\. Elizabeth St., Dear­born, Midi., is Office Facilities Manager for the Ford Motor Co. No word on Tom's wife but the>­have three children. One is a son—^Tommy, 10, and two are daughters: Kay, 14, and Ann, 4. Tom will be registered In the reunion crowd. 
BROTHER THADDEUS, C.S.C., is at St. Ed­ward High School, 13500 Detroit Ave., Lakewood 7, Ohio. He is teaching high school and fears reunion will be Impossible due to summer school. Brother has been back to N.D. only twice in the past 12 vcars for two football games. 
PAUL THOLE, 1011 Hulman Building, Evans­ville, Indiana, is in Office Building Management. Paul married Sarah HofTman, St. Mary's of the Woods ('35) and they have two daughters: Rose Marie, 16, and Sarah Catherine, 12. Paul had to leave N.D. after his freshman year when an auto accident cut his stay with us short. (BILL CAS­
SAZZA may remember.) Paul Isretuming for re­union in *55 and would like to hear from any of the ole Carroll Hallcr3, '31-'32. 
ED VAN HUISSELING, 250 West Grantlcy Ave.. Elmhurst, III., is in the Export Dcpt. of Felt and Tarrant Mfg. Co. (Comptometers). No word on Ed's wife, but they've got a couple daughters— Susan, 11, and Barbara. 8. Ed wrote that he sets on hears from JACK EDWARDS frequently. Jack Is V-P of Edwards, Fuge Corp., export freight for­warders. Allegedly Jack has three children and the business deal was an outgrowth of the '50 reunion. (How about a full confirmation from you. Jack?) Ed will be with us in '55 and with bells on. (Thanks for all the dope, Ed) 
FR.\NK VUKOVICH, 1609 Belvedere Blvd., Sil­ver Springs, Md., is a Consultant for the Depart­ment of Defense. He and wife, Florence, ha\-e two daughters: Barbara Jane, 13, and Betty Jeanne, 9. Frank went to Washington In '42, having various positions in government and priv-atc industr>-. He Is now consultant on supply and logistics in the office of the Secretary- of Defense. Yes, he'll be there in '55. 
SPENCER WALTON, City Hall, Mishawaka. In­diana, is a lawyer and Mayor of Mishawaka. (How about a home address on you, Spcnce?) We think maybe we should have set up a separate classifica­tion for mayors instead of lumping Spcnce In with all the other lau-^-crs. Wife, Edna, and Spcnce have four young ones—three daughters: Sally, 12; Sharon, 9, and Suzanne, 6. Spcnce, Jr., is 2. *'Mr, Mayor" will be there for the twentieth. 
a\R L WEBER, 1185 S. Eighth Ave., Kankakee, III., is Sales Assistant to the Director of Sales, Kankakee Chemical Division of General Milts, Inc. No word on Mama Weber but there are three little Wcbers—Jim, 13, and Bill, 4, are the sons along with Carol Ann who is 8 months. Carl says he worked for General Mills 17 years in Chicago and was transferred to the chemical division last Decem­ber. After so many years of commuting from Chi to Aurora, he is now only five minutes from the plant. Carl contemplates golf for his leisure. He'll be ready for the links when he returns in '55. 
SAM WEST, 618 E. Tenth Ave., Tarentum, Pennsylvania. Is an engineer witli the Duqucsne Light Co. of Pittsburgh. Sam has wife Rose Marie and they toge:her have daughter Joanne. 15, and son Jimmy, 8. Sam is presently designing first atomic power plant to be operated in the Pitts­burgh area. He wants to hear from ARNIE HACKENBRUCH \vhom we have a report on \ia questionnaire. We won't get to .\mle till a later date, for column spread. Sam is DEFINITELY coming to reunion. 
ERIE—^The Erie Club held a Communion Breakfast, \fsgr. Watson 
C. T. ("TOM") WILUAMSEN, I6I2 Jasmine .Ave., New Hyde Park, L. L, New York, is in technical sales and consultation work. He and Har­riet have two children: Charles T., Ill, 14 and daughter Barbara Elaine, 11. Tom writes that JOHN COOG.AN is teaching chemistry at Farming-dale, N. Y., in the Technical and Agricultural College. (How about a return on the question­naire. Jack?) Tom would like to hear from any of the chemical engineering crowd. He hopes to be at reunion. 
LOUIS YAEGER, 1458 NaUonal Road. Wheeling. West Virginia, is a Director of a bank in Wheding. Lou and wife. Kathleen, have three daughters and a son. They run like this—Blanche, 6; Kathleen, 4; Mary Anne, 3 months and Louis, III—no age stated. Lou went to work in a bank on graduation for four years and then became a federal bank examiner till the Na\y got him in '42. On dis­charge in '45 he came to his present bank as cashier and secretary, now a director. Lou would like to hear from BOB PENDERGAST on whom we have a report for a later trip to press. We hope that your plans will jell for you to make the '55 party, Lou. 
JOHN K.WANAUGH, 321 West Swth Street. Dixon, III., owns and manages a manufacturing plant. We don't know what he makes! (How about a fill-in, John?) ifaria and John have six daugh­ters: Mary, 14; Anne, 12; Marda, 10; Carol, 6; 
Patricia, 4, and Maureen, V/2. We'll have the Kav­anaugh man with us In '55. 
WADE KELLEHER, 627 Westborough, Webster Groves, Missouri, IS the Kelleher Motor Freight Lines. He and wife Alethe have a son and daughter —Patrick and ifaureen—ages not stated. Wade re­cently moved to St. Louis after 16 years in Chi­cago. ^Vade will be there for reunion—ho\tf could he miss a golf game? 
ARMAND KELLOGG, 309 N. Front Street, Rock Springs, Wyoming, is an architect. Married to Mabel, they have four sons: Garry, 13; Pat, 11; Bill, 9, and Phillip, 6. Armand says a fifth is on the way—It must be a girl! He is in partner^p with brother Fred of '34 class who lives in Chey­enne. Armand has no definite plans at this date for reunion. 
LUKE KELLY, 204 Ontario Street, Albany, 
N. Y., is a sodal worker attached to the stafF of the State Training School at Industry, N. Y. He and wife Mary have daughters: Margaret, 11, and Kathleen, 9. Luke is working In "after care pro­gram" of the training school with juvenile delin­quents. He writes that BILL CASSAZZA had a. coronary a few months ago but is improring very well though not back to work. 
BOB KENUNE, 418 Bank and Insurance Build­ing, Dubuque, la., is a lawyer. His wife, Betty Jane, is an old friend from Bob's and your Scribe's Sorin days. She and Bob have three children and' we think they come out to be t\vo girls and a boy, but we could be wrong. Kenlinc's handwri.ing hasn't improved! \Ve think they are: Joan Marie, 14; Jenny Bab. 9, and Michael, 11. (We're waiting for a correction. Bob!) It could be Jerry Bob ^vhjch. 
 was guest speaker. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 4$ 
would give him a reverse in statistics and also 
throu* our tabtilatlon off a bit. Bob will make re­
union if possible. He'd like to hear from STEVE 
BANAS, TED GABRESKI and RED.MOXD 
LYONS. 
BILL KENNEDY, 205 Kennedy Building,' New 
Hampton, Iowa, is a lav*->-cr- No report on Bill's 
u-ife, but they have tivo sons and a daughter— 

Mike, 14; Kevin, 5, and Kathleen, 10. Bill is 
coming back in '33. 
JIM KEOUGH, 2420 E, Sixth Street, Dululh, 
Minn., is a partner in the ownership and operation 

of the Duluth Milk Co. Jim has been in the milk 
business since '37. Wife Catherine and Jim have 
two sons and a daughter—James, 13; Kevin, 7, and 

Marv Patricia, 11. Jim would like to hear from 
JOHN KAVANAUGH, BILL TORREY and BOB 
SHIELDS. (You've just had a partial report, Jim). 
He sends word that JIM COLL is a prominent local 
ph>'siclan. (How about a direct report, Jim?) The 
"milk man" sxys he will be at N.D. for the twen­
tieth, but emphatically. 
\'ELMAR KLAIBER, 421 Illinois St., Indian­

apolis, Ind., is sales representative for Locw's, Inc. 
(M-G-M Pictures). Married to Kathenne, the 

Klaibcrs have six children. Four are daughters— 
Judy, 13; Valerie, 8; Kristine, 4, and Katherine, 2. 
TTie sons are—JcfTrej-, 11, and Keith, 10 months. 
Val left the home town of Buffalo in '41 and has 
been in Indianapolis ever since. He will tr>' to make 
the reunion and we hope he does. 
BOB KXAPPMAN, 44023 X. Date Street, Lan­caster, California, is an engineer. Xo report on name of Bob's wife, but there are five children if we read the commas correctly. That's how we tabulated them. Maybe it should have been seven! (Correction in order. Bob?) There arc three daugh­ters: Yvonne, Mary* Sue and Kathleen; and two sons: Danny and Michael Stephen. X'o ages stated. BUT Bob's oldest daughter is married to Basil Cumiingham, former star tackle of Santa Clara Broncos and they have a son. That makes "Grandpa Knappraan" one of the youngest in the class-of '35.' Are there aity more grandfathers around that we don't know about? Bob is mechanical engineer at Edwards Air Force Base and is presently Grand Knight of his local K.C. Council 2433. And he'll 
be east for reunion. Bob is paging "FOOTS" DAVIS, KARL FUUXECKY and FRED CARIDIO. (We'd like to hear from them too. Bob!) 
GORDOX KR.\USS, 4002 Park BouIe\-ard, San Diego, California, is a phj'sician and surgeon. Xo word on name of Gordon's wife, but they have two cliildren: son Terr>- W\TI, 13, and daughter Laynn, 
18. (Your Scribe feels like a youngster with his oldest standing at nearly 12 when he reads about tliesc adults ymi people call your children!) Gordon has been practicing since '30,. has a chris craft from whicli he does his leisure hour fishing and invites all in the '33 crew who are nearby to join him in ocean fishing from the cabin cruiser. HERB N.ADEAU and SA.M L.AMOXICA arc on Gordon's "wanted" list. (If they respond, refer them to us too.) Another from tlic coast for '55! 
JOHX KREBSER, 1216 West Mulburry St., Kokomo, Ind., is cliicf engineer for Kingston Prod­ucts Corp. John and liis ^vife Mary report no <Jiildren. John is waiting to hear from PAUL DOUGHER, as arc we. And he will be there for reunion. 
AXTHOXY KUHARICH, 7I4I Baring Parkway, Hammond, Ind., is Chief U. S. Probation and Parole Officer for the X^orthem District of Indiana. (^Ve have you classified as social worker, Tony.) In addition to wife, Irene, there is son Martin 3. Tony is teaching two courses at Valparaiso Uni­versity, one in Criminology* and the other in Pre­vention and Social Control of Crime. He has been taking his graduate work at night from Loy­ola University in Chicago and hopes to pick off that pilaster of Science Degree tliis June. Here's an­other for the reunion week end. 
\TCrrOR KURZWEG, 499 ^Voodvine Ave., New Orleans, La., is President of Consolidated Com­panies, Inc. (wholesale grocers). Vic's wife Kath­r>Ti comes from Cle\-eland. They have four young­sters—boys: Jerry, 9; Jimmie, 7 and Bob, 2; daugh­ter Mary Kay, 4. Vic says he moved to New Orleans in '47. He suggests that any *35ers drop­ping into the Creole City should call him at 
AUdubon 7751 or CEdar 9362. And Vic is coming back for the twentieth. 
AL LAWTON, lOI ^\^litncy Avenue, Xe^v Haven 10, Connecticut, Is General Agent for the Aetna Life Insurance Co. Al said nothing about his wife, but they have two daughters and a son as follows: Paula, 16; Elena, 12, and George, 9. It was good to hear directly from Al though things have been 
ERNEST V. RIEDER, *28 

Appointment of Ernest V. Rieder, '28, as superintendent of Detroit Edi­son's sixth power plant, now being built at River Rouge, has been announced by AValter L. Cisler, Edison president. The new River Rouge plant will house the world's largest steam turbine gener­ators. 
Ernest has been assistant to the super­intendent of the Company's Trenton Channel power plant since 1951. He joined Detroit Edison immediately after receiving his degree in mechanical engi­neering from Notre Dame. Since 1930 he has been a member of tlie engineer­ing staff ?t Edison's Trenton plant. 
He is married and has two children. A native of South Bend, Indiana, Ernest is past president of the Trenton School Board; public relations director for the Breton Wood Association; and a member of the Downriver Chamber of Commerce and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers. 
drifting in from ^-arious quarters, unconfirmed, for years. He ch'dn't say it, but we recall that he holds an important position with Aetna and has been re­sponsible for some of their polic>* making. (Want to confirm, Al?) We'll all see him at reunion. 
And that we think makes 50. It comes to thirteen pages and we hope they wilt print it all now that we have burned up the t>Tiewritcr putting it out. We'd like your additional ideas about reunion even though practically all of you, those presently reported and those to come in the future trips to press, were so glowing in your remarks about the 1950 party. It sounded as though that fifteen year job just about filled e\-eryone's bill. The committee which handled it apparently could not have added a thing to your enjoyment. We-too, thought they did a top-notch Job and only hope some of them can be again pressed into ser\'ice. 
And the rest of you '35crs who have not sent in your questionnaires—please return the next one as soon as you get it. Let's start the campaign for '53 with evcr>'one we've got. 
vA^X. A. H. Moorman I TOO 1708 Industrial Bank Bid?. Detroit 26, Michigan 
CLASS REUXIOX ATTENDAXCE BOB MO\'NAHAX AXD HUGH WALL. 
ROBERT T. BURKE, JR., has accepted an in­terim appointment as Jefferson County judge in Kentucky. He is also secretary of the University of Louisville board of trustees and a director of the Louisville Taxicab and Transfer Company. 
I pn ^ Paul Foley, Vice-President 
• ' ^ ' MacManus, John and Adams Fisher Building Detroit 2, Michigan 
CU\SS REUXIOX ATTEXD/\NCE ARTIE HOFFMAX AXD BILL MULREXAX. 
It's always a problem to know how to start these columns. Should we start wiih some shimmering little jewel of reminiscence? Should we kick off with a recipe for Hand-Set Highballs as compounded in the old. old Scholastic office back of the old, old Ave office? Or should we start out with a "Gee, fellas," type approach? 
We have decided on geography and we arc here to tell you a sure shot on the next quiz program you stumble into. Do you know what spot is exactly half-way around the world from the Uni­versity of Xotre Danic? What? Vou don't? Well, exactly half-way around tlie world from U.N'.D. is Xotrc Dame College in Dacca, East Pakistan. If this doesn't figure out on your rubber ruler you can fight it out with classmate REV. G. F. Mc-MAHOX, C.S.C., who is teaching there right now. Actually Xotrc Dame College is now abuilding to replace St. Gregory (who lost eight straight to Xew Delhi State Teachers). Father Afc^Ialion stayed on at X'otre Dame through the early '40's while he taught religion and was a prefect in Walsh and Cavanaugh Halls. He is one of eight C.S.C. priests who staff the college of 300 way over in Pakistan. 
A little closer to home, in the Merchandise Mart at Chicago to be exact, we find JOE SCHILLIXG busy as Midwest Sales Manager of Beattic Manufacturing Company who turn out rugs and carpets. Joe has been in the carpet business for several years and was with Bigelow-Sanford Company before his present connection. There arc three ^'oung Schillings: Lee, 13; Linda, 10; and P^gy, 6. 
X'ext time you feel like an athlete after a brisk-go at the pin-ball machines, send for a copy of tlie Weslficld (X. J.) Leader and read this: "Most Valuable Player Prize Voted to Gillespie." Lest you shrug your dainty shoulders, let me tell you this is a baseball prize and goes almost aimually to JOHX A. GILLESPIE who's at least as old as >-ou are and balder. In addition to iniitations of Bcmarr McFadden, Jack works on public relations for Socony-Vacuum in X*ew York and on private relations with his family of three: Bruce, U; Jcrr>'. 
6; and Gary, 3. Jack informs >us that GEORGE FEELEV moved to Westfield in 1952 and "has his own business." Incidentally, Gillespie works for Dan McCarthy, brother of the Dean. 
Down in Harrisburg, Pa., the Adviser on Rc­searcit and Statistics to the Pennsylvania Depart­ment of Public Instruction is VIXCEXT J. Mc-COOLA. Vincc finished a tour in the Air Force just a year ago and prior to that was teaching English, handling sports publicity and serving as assistant football coach at Scranton (Pa-) College. He has two sons; Brian, 4; and Dennis, 20 months (now about 23). Vince would like to hear from "Howie" Murdock (whicli never seemed difficult) and *'Denvcr Jack" McCarthy. 
Stand back, men, JOE LEVI is County Judge up in Portage County, Wisconsin—and believe me, it's better llian lhe>* deserve. Joe lives in Stevens Point, Wisconsin, with his wife and four children: Tom, 8; Mike, 6; Mary Ann, 5; and Martha Jean, 2. 
Cultural Note: RAV "HOT LIPS" MARRE, who used to play a lot of trumpet in JOE CASASAX-TA's band, has just been elected president of the 
Fort Smith (Ark.) symphony association. Ray is married, a practicing architect, has two daughters and one son. 
JUSTIX C. McCAXX is a Xe%v Yorker. That we 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 
can say for poshivcly sure. He's a Vice-President and lie Hvcs in Brotbc\-ilIc. What he's Vice-Presi­dent of is Hairc Publishing Co., a light good busi­ness paper house. And up in Bronxville he has a family of five—four boys and a girl. Justin has been with Haire since 1938 except for two years in the Navy. Justin's closwt brush with N.D. since graduation was a stint on Alumni Fund work with Tom Bums last fall. 
In order to ixse up some spare **you-aIl's" we have hanging around we will lap dissolve quickly to CoWngton, La., where we discover HUBIE S. G.ALLAGHER. Hubie describes himself as a "Coach and Teacher** but where and of what I know not. I am guessing that it is with the Robert E. Lee Murray Studios whose northern branches are run by brother Axtliur. Hubie has t^vo sons and a daughter. 
Here's a little fable about the mess success can get you into: Tlie largest Quaker settlement west of Philadelphia is at Whittler, Calif. (Ah, the things you learn reading this column!) Into this idyllic scene mo\'cd our classmate DR. JOSEPH 
J. AHLERIN'G, the first Catholic medic ever to get his roots down there. Now look: There arc six more Catholic doctors in the city and almost 20 
X.D. alumni rumbling around about forming a club! In addition to all this Ahlcring has four sons and two daughters—the largest colony west of the Quakers. 
Contrast Dcpt. JAMES G. MURPHY lias two wonderful titles: Bachelor and Vice-President of the American National Bank of Cheyenne, Wyoming. Murphy passes on tliis cr\ptic little tidbit: "HARRY BALDWIN, of Cricago, has some oil leases around Lusk, Wyoming, and buses through here period­ically." 
BOB WILKE, who was fading rapidly around left end the last time I saw him, is moving from Norwalk, Conn., to Allentown, Pa., to take up duties as General Credit Manager of Lehigh Port­land Cement Company for whom he lias been working about five years. Bob has two daughters: Karen, 15. and Doris Anne, 9. 
FR/\NCIS ^L DAUGHTON is operating his own 
C.P.A. and Tar Consultant business in Crcston, la. He has been in the tax and accounting field since 1937. (I've been in the tax field for several years myself, with a shovel.) Before opening his own shop Daugliton was with the U. S. Treasury* for 12 years and with the Iowa Tax Commission for two years. There are four Daugliton children, three sons and a daughter. 
Up in Seattle, PHIL HOSTERM/VN is working away as Divisional Sales Manager of Eastman Tag and Label Company for whom he has been selling for nearly seven years. Phil has three children: Michael, 11; Philip, 9; and Mary Lyn, 5. For reasons loo deep for me to fathom, Hostcrman would like to hear from Jack Gillespie, Bud Bon­field, Jack McGurl and Frank Barbush. 
Career Notes: If you want to travel, join the Order. Our next report is from REV. THOMAS 
B. CURIL\N, C.S.C., from Santiago, Chile, where he is teacliing at St. George College, a bustling institution of 1,430 boys. Father Curran has been in Chile since 1949 except for a recent trip to the States for a successful cataract operation. He re­ports that a new Seminar)* has recently been opened in Chile to train boys for the Holy Cross Order. 
Now to wind this up on a real high note, get a load of this news item from Holl>-wood: "JAMES BACON» jVssoctated Press Hollywood columnist, makes his screen debut in the role of a circus clown in Hal WalHs' 'Three Ring Circus' which co-stars Dean Martin, Jerry* Lewis, Joanne Dru and Zsa Zsa Gabor!" 
To which I can only add: One of our boys made it! 
vQ^0 Charles M. Callahan I TaO Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame, Indiana 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE JOHN LACEY. 

Didn't sec any '38ers at tlie Reunion as such, but present at the President's gathering held on the Thursday preceding were: CHARLEY MORRISON, President of the Vir^nia Club; DICK THOEN, President of the Buffalo Club; CLARK REYN­OLDS, President of the New Jersey Club, and JOE MOORE, President of the Grand Rapids Club. All were over at the Callahan domicile that eve­ning in a gathering that started late (following the Club Presidents' dinner), and ended late. 
The annual meeting of the Monogram Club was held on the Saturday afternoon of Reunion week­end. As retiring president. CHUCK SWEENEY, was in charge of the program. 
JERRY KANE is a sales executive with the Boeing /Virplane Company in Seattle. Don't forget it is only four year^ to our 20th reunion. 
1090 William D. O^TooIc I Ta Y 176 HilUidc Avenue Rochester, New York 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE RICHARD ANTON, ROBERT BREEN, THOMAS BULGER, ROBERT CARMODY, RICHARD CASEY, DR. MICHAEL CLOUSE, NEAL COCH­RAN, DR. JAMES DALEY, JOHN DAVIS, VINCE DeCOURSEY, HARRY DETZER, EDWARD DIS­SER. \1NCENT DOLLARD, JOHN DUFFY, CHARLES ENGLEHART, BERNARD FAGAN, BERNARD FEENEY, FRANK FITCH, FRANK FR/\NSIOLI, TED FRERICKS, JOHN GALLA­GHER, ROBERT GALLAGHER, FRANK GART­LAND, WALTER GEREND, THOM.\S GILLES­PIE, HAROLD GOTTSACKER, JERRY GREEN, JACK GRIFFIN, EDWARD GRIMES, JOHN GUTOWSKI, LEO HALL, JOSEPH HARRING­TON, DAVID HARRIS, CHARLES HAYES, WIL­LIAM HERRICK, JOSEPH HIEGEL, HUGO HILDEBR/VNDT, THOMAS HOG/VN, WALTER JOHNSON. R/VYMOND KANE, FRxVNK KELLY, THO.M/\S KING, REV. IRVING KLISTER. ROB­ERT KVATSAK, FR.ANK LrVUCK, MAURICE LE.\HY, EDWARD McDERMOTT, JOSEPH Mc-DERMOTT. HARRY McDONxVGH, JOHN Mc-DONALD, JOSEPH McDONALD, DR. RICHARD McIwVY, JOHN McM.VHON, FR^VNK M.\STRI­ANA, DAVID MESKILL, WILLIAM MEYERS, GEORGE MILFORD, MARK MITCHELL, JOHN MORTIMER, JAMES MOTSCHALL, JACK NEU­MANN, DONALD O'MELIA, WILLIA.M OTOOLE, FRANK PITTM.\N, JOHN PL/\NALP, JOHN QUINN, JOSEPH QULVN, PAUL RICE, JAMES ROa\P , THO.MAS ROCHE, DANIEL 
RYAN, JOSEPH RYAN, ROBERT , SCHIRF, ROBERT SCHRAMM, THOMAS 5CHRINER, H. SCOTT SHEEDY, JOHN SIEGEL, LOUIS SOU­ERS, JOHN SFORER, CHARLES STREATOR. JOHN SULLIVAN, TIMOTHY SULUVAN, JAMES TANSEY. RICHARD THOEN. JULIAN TON5MEIRE, ROD TROUSDALE, PAUL TUL­LY, ROBERT VOELKER, JOHN WESSELS, JACK \VHEELER, ANDREW WILSON AND JOHN \VINTERMEYER. 
The Class of 1939 'take ofT their hats' to VINCE DeCOURSEY for a job extremely well done as class secretary for the past 13 years. ViDCc did his work well and faithfully and the class owes him a huge vote of thanks for keeping the spirit alive through these magazine columns. Thanks a million, Vince, from all of us!! 
(Ed. Note: and to that commendation the man­aging editor wants to add his perM>nal apprecia-• tion. JC). 
JOHN B. CELLA, II, has been made a Knight in the Order of St. Gregory. 
15 yEAItHBUNION JUNE 10-I1-I2. 
Richard Burke 1940 146 Paxton Drive South Bend, Indiana 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE JOHN BENEDICT, BILL CANNON, ^VILLLAM KERWIN AND CHARLES WEILBACHER. 
SAM BOZICH has been promoted to senior chemical engineer by Humble Oil and Refining Com-
WASHINGTON, D. C.—^Vice-president Richard Nixon and Father Hesburgh were honor­ed guests at the alumni club's UND Night dinner. 
Xotrt Dame Alumnus, AugustSepUmbeT, 1954 45 
pany at their Bayiown, Texas, Rcfincrj'. WALTER H. JOHNSON has been appointed \icc­
prcsidcnt and sales manager of American Airlines. 
Father DANIEL P. MUL\^Y, S.J., celebrated his first Solemn Mass at St. Augustine's Church, l.an::hmont, N. Y., on June 20. 
Prof. RUSSELL J. JANDOLI is chairman of the Department of Journalism at St. Bonaventure Uni­^•ersity and recently wrote an article in the Catholic Digest. 
|QX | John W. Patterson, Jr. lT*rl Pittsburgh Press, Roto Section Pittsburgh 22, PennsyK*ania 
Rev. ROBERT F. BEH, OS.C, former head of speech and drama at the Uni\*ersity of Portland, has recently reported for active duty as Army cliaplain at Ft. Lewis, Washington. 
CHARLES J. FARRELL is a icadicr at the Phoenix TecIinJcal ScliooI, Phoenix, Ariz. He is married and Mr, and Mrs. Farrcll are parents of seven children. 
JANfES P. O'LAUGHLLN* and HOWARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR., have formed a law firm and are located at Suite 511, 1023 Connecticut Ave. N.W., Washington 6, D. C. 
m OAO William E. Scanlan iy*f^ 400 East lllth Street Chicai^o 28, Illinois 
lOA^ Jo*^" ^ WiR^ns 
iy*fO 11404 Ruplcy Lane 
Dallas 14, Texas 
JOSEPH A. TRAC\' has announced llie removal of his law ofEce to 70 Pine Street, Xe^v York. 
Rev*. DA\nD FITCH, S.J., was ordained to tlie Sacred Pricstliood on June 12 in St. Mary's Ca­thedral, San Francisco, Calif' He will spend an­other year at Alma College to complete his theolog­ical studies. 
lOAA Gcortre Bariscillo 
lT*fH 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
(Ed. Note: The 10-Year Class moved into Walsh Hmll with far beyond its expected strength. The ci{>s for the Class, catering, and other necessary preparations, had to be given last-minute adjust­ments. The Alumni Office naturally prefers the emergency of ovcrfIo\^' to the disappoin:ment of overestimate, but in '59 we hope the advance indi­cations can give us a closer picture, to satisfy and proWde for everyone.) 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE HANK ADAM, GRIFF ALLEN, JOHN ANHUT, ANDY BARBIERE. GEORGE BARISCILLO, VIN­CENT BITTER, DOM BOETTO, DICK BOR­GESS. BERNIE BOWXING, TOM BREMER, PAT BRENNAN, JOHN BRIGHT, BEN BRUNETTI, FRANK a\RVER, JOE CHRISTEN, HERB CLARK, JIM CL.\RKE, JACK COAKER, JACK COLLINS, CLE^f CONSTANTINE. JACK CRA­HAN, FRAN CURR.-\N, JIM DANAHER, HANK DEWES, JOE DILLON, DICK DOERMER, JACK DOHERTY, JACK DOYLE, BOB DUFFY, JOHN DUFFY, VLNCE DUNCAN, ED DUNIGAN, JOE EATON, JOE FARALAR, BERNIE FINUCANE, MILTON FLYKE, MIKE FRAWLEY, BUCK GALLAGHER, ED GALLAGHER, JOE GAL­LAGHER, LARRY GOEBELER, BILL GRAFE, NORM HAASER, BOB HALLEIX, TOM HALLI­GAN, JACK HEAG.VE\', BILL HEALY, BILL HE.\DRICK, JOE HICKEY, ARTIE HOFFALWC, JIM KANE, GENE KELLEY, JACK KELLY, BILL KENNEY, TOM KERRIGAN, PAT KILEY, VIC KIMMEL, JOHN KOCH, JIM LANDGREN, JOE LANIGA.\, PAUL L.\RSON, HARRY LAV­ERY, BILL LAWXESS, BOB LEHMAN, DICK LEON, CARL LIEBSCHER, BOB LONDERGAN, JIM LLOYD, JOHN LYNCH, RED McCAFFER-TY, BOB McAULIFFE, MIKE McDERMOTT, PAT McDERMOTT, BOB McDONNELL, HAR­RY McGEE, ART McGRATH, CHARLES M c KELVEY, JOHN McKE.NNA, GERALD AUHON, JIM MAHONEY, MIKE MALLOY , BOB MANN, JIM MALONE, BEN MAMMINA, PAUL MARI­ETTA. BILL AL^RTIN, JIM MEAGHER, BOB 

.METZLER, BOB .MILFORD, JOHN MORRISON, BILL MULLIGAN, "BLACK" JOHN MURPHY, JOHN MURR.AY, JOE NEUFELD, ED NUGENT, JOHN NUGENT, PAUL 0*CONNELL, BILL O'CONNOR, ED O'CONNOR, JOHN O'CON­NOR, TOM O'CONNOR, JOHN O'HARA, TOM O'REILLY, JOHN O'ROURKE, GENE PILAW­SKI, JIM PLATT, RICHARD PRIEROTT, BILL ROGERS, WALTER ROGERS, BOB ROHDE, TOM ROLFS, AL ROMEO, WALT ROMITO, DA\T RONEY, LEO RUMLEY, PHIL RUSSO, ED SCH.MID, AUSTIN SHARP, JOE SIMONS, BILL SLOWEY, TED SMITH, ED SOCHALSKI, LARRY STAHL, ED STEINER, FRANK STUN5PF, DAN SULLIV.AN, JACK SULLIVAN, BILL TALBOT, JACK THORNTON, BOB THUMM, DAN TOMCIK, NORV TRIMBORN, JOE VAN D^TvE, FRANK VIGNOLA, WARREN WAHL, FRANK ^\'ALDECK, WILLIAM J. WALDRON, JR., GEORGE WENDT, SAM ^^•ING, JOHN WELCH, and HARRY YEATES. 
The Dome, glittering magnificently in all of its golden beauty against a blue backdrop, greeted us! It was reunion time, our tenth, and how fast tlic years melted as we saw familiar faces, heard fa­miliar voices. It was yestcr>'car as we lounged once again on the steps of Walsh, and visited the grotto, and sat in tlie "caf," and walked the old paths; and somehow it seemed tliat we'd never really left this place, 
Friday evening, after a catered buffet dinner in Walsh, retiring prcx>- DICK DOERMER con­ducted tlie class meeting. Officers, elected in what was hailed as a "truly Catholic and demo­cratic election," were: 
President: JACK THORNTON; Regional Vice-Presidents: BILL TALBOT (East); SAM AVING (South); MIKE FRAWXEY (West); BEN MAM­MINA (Nortli Central); Secretary: GEORGE BARISCILLO; Treasurer: FRAS CURR^VN. 
BILL TALBOT discussed tJie proposed DOME for the Class of '+t, for whJcIi he and JOHN LYNCH have volunteered to lay the ground work and WTite the copy- It was suggested that tlie publication carry a resume of the highlights of our years at school and a picture section of the mem­bers of the class. indi\"iduaUy or with their re­spective families, as thej- are today. A lively and spirited discussion followed, culminating in the unanimous approval of tlie plan by the reunionists. and a motion by BOB METZLER, seconded and passed, also unanimously, that the DOME com­mittee be authorized to plan and prepare such a publication, cost per book not to ctcccd $10. Bill is to prepare a mailing piece and questionnaire to be sent to eacli member of the class in reference to this project. Any who may have further sug­gestions or care to volunteer their talents or facili­ties are urged to contact BILL TALBOT at 300 Main St., White Plains, N. Y., or JOHN LYNCH, Box 111, Notre Dame, Ind. 
The prize (to be awarded in '59) to the '44 man traveling the farthest for the reunion, was won by DICK "a^CrrUS" LEON, who came from Mex­ico Cit>'; that for the shortest distance (also to be a%%-arded in '59) to BILL SLO%VEY, who walked all the way to our reunion Hqs. in Walslt Hall from the Commerce Building where he is teaching Accounting. The award for the most cliildren was deferred to '59 since so many xvcrc reporting fractional counts: A'/z, 5Yi, 614, etc 
Saturday morning in AValsh cliapel Fr. McCar­ragher offered Mass for the deceased members of our class, a class picture was taken, box lunches were serx'cd at neon, and in the evening the Re­union Dinner for all returning classes was scr\*ed, capped by an inspiring talk by Father Hesburgh. 
For recreation tliere was golf, softball, and swimming in both the ^'Rock" and the lake. It was hot and sunny (92 degrees), except for a brief but welcome (to cut the heat and humidity) rain storm amid flashes of lightning and claps of thun­der late Saturday afternoon, reminding us that Indiana weather hadn't clianged through the years. The more than ample, steady supply of "refresh­
ments" kept all in good spirits! 
Mass for all tlie classes on Sunday morning in Sacred Heart Church with a sermon for Notre Dame men by Father Barr>- concluded tlie planned events for tlic weekend. 
Reunion sidelights . . . Prize story: PAUL O'CONNELL recalling the guy who said upon leaving the dining hall one morning after break­fast that he was going back to the hall to listen to tlic razor on tlic radio. . . . JIM KANE com­plaining that when he woke up Saturday morning he couldn't remember how to get out of the top bunk> . . . JOE DILLON complaining that. )%'hen he woke up Saturday morning he couldn't remem­ber how he got in to the top bunk . . . stories about the food strike . . . and the coming of the navy . . . and St. Mar>*'s . . . and football week­ends . . . and pink slips . . . and Rosie's . . . and the midnight 'Mash" . . . and Father Ryan . . . and so many more . . . some nc^v tilings we discovered, like cigarette and candy machines in tlie residence halls, and TVs in all tlie "rec" rooms, and individual mail boxes in all the halls, and new buildings, and plans for a $250,000 book­store to fill Badin bog, and fewer drinking foun­tains since the cliangeover to drinkable water in tlie rooms. Tliere were physical changes to be sure, just like tliere were physical clianges in many of -us, but to us it was still the Notre Dame we kne^v and these were the same guys. 
Some couldn't make tlic reunion, but sent letters we passed around, like CHUCK URRUEL^V who is now with the American Consulate in Penang, 
Mala>*a; and BOB McKAHAN who is with Illinois Bell Telephone Co. in Champaign, III.; and FAR­RELL QUINLAN who is operating the Indian Cave Lodge at Lake Sunapce, New Hampshire; and ED DRINKARD who has joined the engineer­ing staff of the new Ford Motor Company plant in Louis\'ilIe, Ky.; and TOM CLEMENS who is a writer for the U. S. Information Agency* in Wash­ington. D. C. 
After Mass on Sunday the gang started separat­ing. Tliere were no goodbyes .. . just "so long" till the next time . . . '59. Somehow the weekend had made us love Xotre Dame even more; somehow ­we felt ever more close to our Notre Dame "broth­ers." And if the reunion ser\Td no o:her purpose, it convinced us beyond doubt that the friendships we had made in our campus days were tnily last­ing ones, xipon which the fleeting years had had little effect. 
EDWARD C. WATTERS, JR., has been awarded the doctor of philosophy degree in mathematics by the University of Maryland. Ed and his wife are the parents of two children. He has been a member of the faculty at the U. S. Naval Academy since 1946. Ed has two brothers. John and Robert, who are also graduates of Notre Dame. 
DR. J. P. CLARKE is specializing in internal medicine in Denver, Colo. Phil and his wife arc the parents of six children. 
to yEAR, REUNION JUNE lO-ll-ll 

•I OA e ^1 I^mez 
I'*r D 122 TuUamore Road Garden City, N. Y. 
WE'RE NEXT OX THE AGENDA: 
The next reunion to be held at Notre Dame tvill be ours. From here in it is strictly business with us as far as reunion and reunion planning is con­ixmcd. Our sleeves are rolled up, and we have an: excellent local committee already at work. 
This past June your secretary met with a local committee on tlie campus. Most of the events of the coming reunion weekend were thoroughly thrashed out. BILL KLEM is tlic local chairman, helping all the \'arious committees, and acting as cliief NROTC representative for this reunion. 
OfEcially, the reunion is to begin Friday, June 10, 1955. The buffet lunclieon and dinner get­togethers of that first day will be in the able hands of DON CLAEYS. Naturally, beer and set­ups unlimited will be available for the whole w-cek­end.' Saturday's picnic luncli and possible softball game for those not enjoying the Golf Tournament 
or the gym or pool at the Rock, uill be managed by BOB SNEE. Saturday night will be llw scliool banquet, followed by an NROTC Smoker piloted by VINCE L/VURITA, and a Smoker for the rest of the class under the guiding hand of BOB RIORDAN. TJiesc affairs should go well into the wee hours of tlie morning, 
Sunday morning there will be a Class of '45 Memorial Mass for those men of the class who have passed a\vay. Many of the members of the class remember quite a. fciv.of those who died in 
45 Notre Dame Alumaui, August-September, 1954 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY—John Broderick, asst. law dean was UND night speaker. L-R: Robert McDonnell; Ed Sullivan; Paul Fry; Broderick; Donald Dewey; Jerry Jones; Ray DcCourcey. 
World War II; other* have died since leaving school. After Mass, a Memorial Breakfast will be held. These arranscmcats are being handled by BILL KLEM and JACK TREACV. 
Also present at the first organizational meeting xvas, HAROLD ELLITHORN. All local matters will clear through Bill Klem, and then he and I \vill work together to come out with what wc hope will be tops in fun and real enjoyment for each and every member of the class game enough to be there. Set the weekend aside!! Drop me a post­card with any suggestions, and I assure you that serious consideration will be given to any and all suggestions. 
Many thanks to each of the men named above who were there. TOM BERGIN will be helping ' out, but was not able to be present. Special thanks to FATHER DAN CURTIN of our class, who 
; gave mc the lAoice room in Farley Hall where he is Rector. Private shower, six Avindows, two views, and the friendliest hospitality is something we don't find too readily these days in our working world. But then, Notre Dame is unique for that. 
Jim Armstrong, John Cackley, and Jim Frick, all of the Foundation or Alumm Offices, were their usual helpful and cheery selves. Tlicy arc happy that our class is getting this early start on plan­ning, and say that it looks like we'll all reap the benefits by having a really terrific time that week­end. You'll be hearing more on this as the plans develop. 
HAVE YOU SENT IN YOUR CLASS DUES? 
Wc still have a tew men in the class who have not gotten around to sending in their once-in-five­years class dues of one (I) dollar. These dues arc used for operating expenses such as mailings and printing . . . any overhead expense deemed neces­sary to further the class along organizationally. It is not requested merely of those who are planning to come to the reunion. It is requested of anyone who is happy to be a member of our group, and 
who wishes to do his part to further the organiza­tion along. 
The following men have sent in their dues since the last ALUMNUS: HARRY WALTERS, JIM WHITE, FRED MAURER, JR., JOHN RLNELLA, TOM SCHERER, FRED VICIC, DESMOND 
. CURRIER, ANTHON'V PI2ZARELLI, JOHN LAVERY, BERNIE SCHOO» JIM ANDREWS. FRANCIS NASH, BOB C. REARDON, BOB THOMAS, EUGENE FORMICKELLA, RICHARD YOUNG, DON CLAEYS, and FRED BIGGS. 
To these men, and to those whose name ^ve have signalled out previously, many thanks in the name of the class. Thanks also to those men who have sent in twice, or %vho have sent in more than the dollar requested. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT: 
From Dick Young: "Enclosed is my check to cover my class dues—past and present. I appreciate the fact that you and a ie\v others spend a great deal of time and money tr>'ing to help Notre Dame and our class. I am ashamed to say that it is a sorry state of affairs when so many like myself only give you support mentally*—and wc are not too strong in that department either. Best re­gards to all." 
Telegram from FRED "GORFREY" BRE.MER: "This is a Mother's Day to remember. Baby David now has a little sister. Mother and new arrival doing nicely." 
From BROTHER FULGENCE, C.S.C.: "For the past few years I have successfully ignored your ap­peals to the class for cooperation and information. Your persistence, however, has finally broken me down; I can no longer endure the s"JIty feeling 
that comes with chucking away your reminders. "My distance from the States and the other members of the class limits the amount of coopera­tion I can offer you. As for funds, I am a mis­sionar\*. However, I can give you a bit of informa­tion about myself and some of the otlier members of the Class of '45. "I taught two years in tlie States, then came to Pakistan in December of 1947. After spending two and a half years at St. Gregor%**s in the capital city, Dacca, I was transferred oott here in the country to Holy Cross, Bandura. It is a rural school, but in heavily populated Pakistan, a rural area is as populous as a suburban area at home. We have 979 boys in the school this year. On the staff are four brothers from Notre Dame and 23 lay teachers. "Another '43cr on the mission, BROTHER RO­BERT BELLARMINE, left in January for home and his sabbatical year. He has spent the past eight years at Biroidakuni High Scliool among the Garo Christians. "I hope that you are more successful in arousing responses among the other '45cr5 than you have been with mc. Regards.** (Thank you for the letter. Brother. Any effort is worth it to get newsy items like you include tn your letter, and to hear from one more of the class. That is the big reward of this job. A\.) FromBOB THOMAS: "My.previously paid dollar ' must have been lost, so here is another dollar. Count me in on the reunion in *55 . . . navy per­
mitting. Please change my mailing address to Lt. 
R. E. Thomas. USN, USS Tllefish (SS 307), FPO. San Francisco, Calif. My permanent borne address should be listed as Headrick, Oklahoma. See yoa and the gang in '55.** 
From MRS. FRANCIS P. NASH: "Enclosed is a check for the class dues of Francis, and thank you for the reminder. We are now getting settled after S/j years of Navy service, so we hope to be more active in the local ND dub, and are looking forward to our trip to Notre Dame this Fall. Please note the change of address to 5928 Susoa Place, St. Louis 9, Missouri. Thank you and good luck to all.** 
From JIM ANDREWS: "Enclosed is a dollar for dues. Am still in residence training in Derma­tology at the University of l^rginia and hope to finish and settle down next year . . . •where, not kno;vn yet. In case I missed last questionnaire, will set down a couple of the detvb. My ^vife, Pat, is supporting the family while I finish my resi­dency. She's instructor in Anesthesiology in the Medical School here. We have one son, John, 3 years old, and quite a little terror. We have a u-onderful time fishing, etc , but there's little time for pulling fish out because of keeping him out of the stream. I am very interested in hearing about the reunion as I plan to be out that way then. Regards." 
From ANTHONY J. PIZZARELU: "Please for­
give my tardiness and thanks for the reminder. 
The new address is 134 Springfield Ave., Roches­
ter. N. Y.'* 
From FRED MAURER: "Just a note of appre­
ciation for all your hard work. Although I am a 
graduate of * the class of *43, I have always feic 
on the outside, knowing few of.the fellows. Orig­
inally I was in the class of *44, but due to stepped-
up semesters during the war years, I left in *43 
for Afedical School and receiv-ed my B.S. degree 
in *45. 
"No dmbt there are others, especially pre-meds, 
who feel in-between also. Perhaps you can get us 
alt together again in your class of '45. Thanks 
again." (Fred's address is 733 S. Pears Ave., 
Lima, Ohio.) 
From JOHN RINELLA: "Enclosed please find 
my check to cover dues—long, loi»g past due. You 
should be congratulated on the good work. Per­
sonal regards." (Thanks for the kind vtonb, John. 
The real test is up ahead . . . the reunioa. We 
plan to ha%-e the best one ever, with everyone 
there, so we're gearing up for real actioD these 
next few months. See you then. Best regards. Al.) 
From FRED VICIC: "Sorry I'm so late with 
the dues. I'm looking forward to seung a lot of 
the old fellows at next year's reunion. Regards." 
From TOM SCHERER: "Here's my dues. Good 
luck to you and to the class." 
From BUD MALONE: "Here are my dues for 
this year. Best of luck this year. Will see you at 
the lO-year reunion in 1955." 
From CHARLES SCHWINN: "Am enclosing a 
dollar for dues, which probably leaves me still a 
few thotisand in arrears, but guess it u all I can 
do for now. I was discharged from the Navy early 
tn December of this past year, and am resuming 
my residency training in Pathology. I am at present 
at the above address, but on April 1 will return 
to New York for a year of training at the Memo­
rial Cancer Hospital, 444 East 68th Street, New 
York City; you can write me there. 
"/\m hoping to join the New York Club of Notre Dame when I arri\-c Hope to make the '43 reunion in 1953. Inadcntally, havt many of the class which began their schooling in 1941 Iiave joined the class of '45? Thought perhaps you %vercn*t too busy sending out all that correspondence and mail that you now handle, and might like a fc^v suggestions on how to have more work. Best to alt the gang.** 
From DICK LEITE: ''Enclosed is my buck so get my name off your needling list. I hope I have not acquired the title of 'last to pay.* (I'm afraid not, Dick. There's still quite a few on my 'indif­ferent' list, and I am going to have to send out one more reminder soon. I'll be hated yet. Al.) 
"I've been extremely bus>* attempting to com­plete my Ph.D. thesis in Aero Engineering here at the University of Michigan. I came here in Feb­ruary*, 1947; received an M.S. in June, 1W8; worked on upper atmosphere and electronic computer re­search until two years ago; and then started on the Ph.D. work. Hope to wrap it up in a couple of months. 
-'"Wouldf you-tell'any of the fellows to give me a biizz' if they get up Ann Arbor way. Saw JOE LAUCK last spring. He is now back at his home 
I^otre Dame Alumnus, August'Septembtr, I9S$ 47 
in Indianapolis after a trip tlirough the great 
Northwest during *vhich he vlsittd TOD DORAN 
and ART ANDERSON*. This trip follox^cd his re­
lease from active duty in' the Na\y. 
"I vcr>' definitely plan to be on hand for the 
'45 reunion in 1955. Having had such a wonderful 
time at the 1950 affair, I wouldn't miss the next 
one for anytliing short of a major disaster. I'm 
sorr\' that I'tx been rather Ix\ in the past but 
promise to do belter in the future. HANK 
PA\'NE's u-ords in the last ALUMNUS sort of hit 
the quick, so I'm back in line. 
'*In case I'm in a position to render some as­
sistance with the reunion plans, I hope there will 
be some small pan that I can play. At tliis time 
I'm far from being settled; unmarried as yet you 
know, therefore I have no idea where I'll be or 
what I'll be doing when '55 rolls around. In \icw 
of this, 1 intend to keep in loucli with you to 
eliminate the possibility of being excluded. When 
>-ou prepare the next column for the ALUMNUS, 
wish all tlie boys good luck for me. Enough 
for now." 
From JERRY COSGROVE: "Here arc the dues 
you were hunting for. I didn't think I was a 
member of the '45 class, altliough I guess I can 
get along with >"ou •j-oung kids alright. I haven't 
met any Notre Dame men here in Rapid Cit\*, 
S. D., as yet." 
From ELMER GILLESPIE: "I am finally send­ing in my class dues and probably have earned for myself the dubious distinction of being the last one 
to be accounted for. My rcsidenc>- in Internal Medicine at Walter Reed Iiere in Washington, 
D. C., occupies most of my time and what time that doesn't occupy, my wife likes to use since the long hours and rigor of medical education sort of leave the family out of the picture. Have been at Walter Reed since our return from Alaskan duty with the Air Force in June, 1952. I'll be at Walter Reed imtU June, 1955, when the Air Force will probably be sending me overseas again to practice the healing art. That v^ill throw a crimp in ray plans for the gala reunion that you more active members of the class arc planning. Am now a Major in the Air Force Medical Corps, having come in as a First Looic back in June, 1949. Must get back to llie books; seems like this studying will ncx'er cease. Regards." 
From JOSEPH D. O'KEEFE: "Enclosed is reunion dues. The class that started in 1941 was so broken up by the various graduation dates that I'm happy to sec you pull us all together for 1955. Last week in Chicago I saw BILL BROWN, HOBIE MUR­NANE and RAY O'CONNELL. Hobie is headed for a trip to Europe. Ray has a new house. Bill about to settle on a new job. B>-mc and Mitzie O'Neil back here in Philly are expecting their first bom any moment. Thanks for all vour work for 
1955." 
From ART ANDERSEN: "If at all possible I intend to attend the class reunion in 1955. My \rife and I just got back from seeing N.D. walk all over So. California. On the way out we visited CHUCK LUGTON and wife, Marj. They have two small flaughters, Karen Ann and Laura Lee. Chuck h pursuing his architectural career in Santa Fc, New Mexico. JOE Lx\UCK slopped and had dinner with us in October. He was just back out of tlie Na\y and taking a tnp to California before going back to his old job witli Peter C. Reilly, Tar and Chemical in Indianapolis. I am here farming ray father's farra as I have been 
since getting out of the Na\*>* in 194fi." 
From PAUL HANNAGAN: *'I am sorry that I am late sending you my dollar. I have been out of the state for six months and forgot all about it. I think tliat you arc doing a good job of organizing the cJass and the coming reunion. My address is 
1101 West Park, Champaign, Illinois." 
From ERNIE RAUSCHER: "Just a line to let you know that I'm still alive. I was glad to talk to yov the other day, altliough we didn't get vcr\' much settled. I agree with you that we should sit down and talk more concretely when you return from your v-acation. At that time I can see exactly what you want, tr>' xmd give you whatever there is to give you, and suggest someone or someplace to get tlic balance. Enclosed please find two dollars. Why I .nc\xr sent you one dollar I don't know. But it sure has taken an awful long time. So. rather than have another long time pass w*ithout the dough, enclosed is two dollars. Tliat should take care of this year and next year, just in case I forget to send you money for 1955! Business is going hot and hea\y. Making a few bucks, enjoying this craz>' life vers- mudi, and expecting better and bigger things in the future. Give my regards to your good wife. Hope that she is in good health. 
Haven't heard from that fellow COCO LULLI in Peru since I saw him last. He didn't even write and tell me whether he got home O.K.^ enjoyed the trip, was glad that I showed him all that was possible in NY, or anything. You can bet your life 
that he'll get a swift kick in the when he 
sees me in 1955. And, that's a promise. All my 
little Indians and my wife seem to be. in good 
health. And I have no special complaints. We have 
had trouble in the family though, as my Dad died 
on the 2nd of January* last year. You can bcHcve 
me, it leaves an empty spot in our lives wi.hout 
him. No more news for now. Hope this finds you 
in good health. Enjoy your trip, and make sure 
to get in touch with me on your return." 
From JIM L, LAMB: "Enclosed please find the 
dollar you have teen screaming for!! I now own 
a lovely home at 1016 Chestnut in Grand Forks. 
Am an attorney with an established local firm and 
have tww sons, Larr>', bom December 3, 1950; and 
David, born March 13, 1953." 
From JOHN J. O'ROURKE: Enclosed herewith is my long due buck which you have been patiently waiting for. Sorr>' for the delay. I've been up to my neck lately with a lot of details, and as usual, mail is placed aside and then forgotten. I will be busier than ever, more particularly the next three months as I am attempting to pass the N. Y. Bar which has been elusive so far. 

From JACK KEARNEY: "Please excuse my tardi­ness in sending the enclosed check for our class reunion fund. I have made the check out to your order; undoubtedly you can put • it to good use. Despite the fact that I live in the New York area I don't get to see many of my classmates. Most of them seem to be working out of town; although I sometimes sec BOB CLxVRY and GEORGE OL­VANY and I have just recently had a phone call from TOM MULKERN, who has just recently re­turned to the city after living and working in the Midwest. Since 1948 1 have been designing public utility plants and like the work vcr>* much. For tlie past few years I have been working on stations for tlie Florida Power and Light Company which is nice since it usually entails a trip once a year, sometimes in the winter." 
From JOE MENEZ: "Just a line or two. First: I've sent a dollar to Ray. Second: I'm married to Charlene Knoerzer of Chicago (June, *49), and have two boys. Martin will be 4 in April, and Mike who will be two on December 27th current. Come this February* we will have the tliird boy! Tliird: During '46-'47 I taught at the University of Detroit after receiving my Master's at N.D. in 
June, '46. Since the summer of '47 I've been at 
Loyola U., Chicago. In June, '53, I received a 
Ph.D. from Notre Dame and am an Assistant Prof, 
in tlie Dept. of Political Science. Fourth: I'm doing 
some writing, mostly articles for scliolarly journals. 
One of these days 'Social Science' will publish one 
of my pieces on the Vice Presidenc>*. Mid-America 
(winter edition) will publish Part I (ma^-be 40 
pages), on the President and Congress. I do book 
reviews regularly for several magazines, particularly 
*Books on Trial.' I also do a good deal of lec­
turing in the Chicago area. Fifth: Played host re­
cently to LOUIS BELTR^\NENA of Guatemala 
(Ph.D. in June, '47), JAINE VALEZ of Colombia 
(Ph.D. in June, 1951) and Lx\RRY ROMAGOSA 
of Panama of our o\*-n class of '45. Met BROCK 
LYNCH, ^LD., when his brother graduated in 
June, 1953. SLxtli: I expect to be at the reunion 
in June, '55. Al, a question: Can you get the 
Alumni office or the Scholastic to send me a copy 
of the graduation issue mth the pictures of the 
cJass? I would appreciate it. Some of the names 
I sec in your class I just can't 'picture' but I'm 
sure I know 'cm. 
"Lastly: (a) Don't do anything drastic like 

quitting. For myself, I'll tr%- to be more helpful 
in the future. I should like to specially send my 
regards to MIKE MANZO, HENRY LULLI, JOE 
CARDENAS." 
From MICHAEL COFFY's sister: "You asked for some information on my brother, Michael CofTy, in the last edition of tlie ALUMNUS, whicli I am for­warding to you at tliis time. He has been back in tills country since last April. At the present time he is completing a rcsldeno' in psycltiatrj' at Grej-stonc State Hospital at Morris Plains. Joe is living at 20 Westbur\- Road, Woodbury- Gardens, Woodbridge, N. Y., with his wife and two young daughters." 
FOUNDATION WORK: 
Several members of the class of '45 have been busy these past few montlis doing Foundation work for Notre Dame. Tliis personal type of solicitation program is very beneficial and has shown that many alumni who like to contribute to the scliool need reminders because they just keep putting it off. Some of tlic Foundation Chairmen arc the following: FRANK LINEHAN has been doing an excellent job in Schenectady, N. Y.; GEORGE SCHW'ARTZ has been busy as a beaver in Lehigh-ton. Pa.; JOHN KRA.MER has done himself proud in Scranton, Pa.; MATT BAJOREK has been of tremendous help in Titusville, Pa.; and I have 
Club president Robert Metzlcr presents check to Father Hesburgh for $1,600 scholarship a^vard from the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, Auguit-Septemher, 1954 
been doing my bcsl in Nassau and SufTolk Counties in New York. If you feci you \rauld like to help Notre Dame in your area, why not drop Jim Arm­strong a line. 
''*•«» 35 HuRhes St., Apt. 2 Hartford, Conn. 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE CLEM CONSTANTINE, BERNIE FINU&\NE AND TED SMITH. 
10A 7 James E. Murphy IT*I / 407 So. 25th, Apt. B-3 
South Bend, Indiana CL,\SS REUNION ATTEND^XNCE I'AT BRENN,\N, JOE FARMAR, JIM LLOYD AND JOHN WELCH. 

DR. THOM.\S E. SNYDER lias been appointed village Iicaltli officer in East Syracuse, N. Y. PAUL McKEE is credit manager for the Soutli­ern Bedding Company, Lexington, Ky. EDWARD J. AZAR is an attorney in Mont­gomery, Alabama. 
10^ O Herman A. Zitt 
•'** " 126 Farmside Drive Dayton, Ohio 

CLJ\SS REUNION ATTEND,\NCE EDWARD CASSADY, JACK DOYLE, T. PAT­RICK FINAN, DONALD GATENS, ROBERT 
McAULIFFE AND PATRICK MARTIN. CLIFTON E. BLOOM has recently opened an office for the practice of law in the Garden Plaza Building, Tucson, Ariz. DR. A. ROBERT KLUCKiV has recently re­ceived a Doctor of Osteopathy degree from Kirks­villo College of Osteopathy and Surgery, Kirks­\-ilIe, Mo. 
layi O Tohn P- Walker ITI T 826 Wine Street Elgin, niinois 
(Ed. Note:) The largest 5-Year Reunion in our history had Sorin Hall bulging at the seams, a prefect or t^vo bulging at the arteries, and the Glass itself bulging a little by Sunday morning. But the precedent set in attendance and enjoyment ought to give the Alumni Office a little better opportunity to work with tlic 5-Year Classes ahead, and to be prepared for the Terrific Tenth in '59 that this Fifth indicates.) 
CL.\SS REUNION ATTENDANCE MATT AANSTOOS, HUBERT ADAMS, THOM­AS ADAMS, ROBERT AZIZ, PAUL BAILEY, LEO BARNHORST, ROBERT BAUMANN, JOHN BtVGHAN, DONALD BECKERT, TERRY BREN­NAN, FRANK BROGAN, JOHN BROGAN, WIL­LIAM BROWN, J,\MES BURKE, LOUIS BURNS, JAMES BUTZ, JA.MES CuVREY, WILLIAM &\R­TER, W. HOWARD CHITTENDEN, GEORGE CIBULA, BEN CONDON, PATRICK CONKLIN, ROBERT CONNELLY, WILLIAM DACEY, JOHN DEMPSEY, LOUIS DiGIOV.VNNI, JOSEPH DIL­LON, THOM,\S DINGES, RICHARD DONO­GHUE, J. PATRICK DOYLE, JOHN E;\RLY, CARL EILERS, FRANK FAHEY, JOHN FAN­NING, JOHN FAVRET, EDWARD FAY, CHARLES FLETCHINGER, FRANCIS FORGI­ONE, FRANCIS FORTON, JACK FRAIER, GEORGE FRAZIER, WILLIAM FUERTGES, JO­SEPH GEISEL, WILLIAM GORMAN, JOSEPH GOSLINE, WALTER HAASER, ROBERT HEN­NESSEY, NORM,\N HENNESSY, JOHN HICKEY, OLIVER KINSMAN, JOSEPH HIPP, MICHAEL HOEFLINGER, RAY HOLDEN, RICHARD HOY, ALBERT IFFLANDER, JOHN JACOBS, PHIL JENSEN, DONALD JOST, THOMAS KELLY, JAMES KENNEDY, JOHN KERRIGAN, ROB­ERT KESSING, JAMES RESTING, THOMAS KING, RICHARD KOPF, GEORGE KORHUMEL, THOMAS KRASS, THOMAS KUPFER, JOSEPH KUSPER, JOHN LAMBERT, THOMAS L,\ND­GREN, JOHN LiWIGNE, WILLIA.M LEO.VARD, ALEX LESKO, CARL LIEBSCHER, ROBERT LUTHER, GEORGE McCARTHY, WILLIA.M MC­CARTY, THONUS McGUIRE, JOHN .McKIN-LEY, AUSTIN McNICHOLS, JAMES .McNULT\', LAWRENCE MADIGAN, EUGENE MAGUIRE, ROBERT MAHONEY, JAMES .MANNING, LEE MARA, JAMES .MARSHALL, J,\MES MARTIN, WILLIAM .MARTIN, MARTIN MATICH, ED­WARD MEEHAN, JOSEPH MENGDEN, ROB. ERT MOLNAR, JOHN .MOORHEAD, GERALD 
MURPHY, JAMES .MURPHY, JOHN MURPHY, FR.\NCIS NARDI, JOSEPH NAUMAN, JOHN NESTER, GEORGE NICHOLS, LOUIS NICOU­LIN, THOMAS NOVAK, DANIEL O'CONNELL, JOHN O'CONTCOR, JOHN O'HARA, EUGE.\E O'NEIL, VINCE O'REILLY, NORMAN OR.MS­BY, EDWARD O'ROURKE, JOHN O'ROURKE, LOUIS PESUT, ROBERT POISSON, BERNIE POWERS, JA.MES PRESLEY, JOHN PRIHODA, STEVE PROVOST, BRUCE RAFF, THO.MAS REILLY, JAMES RODGERS, ROBERT ROTCH­FORD, CHARLES ROULT, JOSEPH ROZIER, FR-ANK RUDDEN, LEO RUMELY, PHIL RUS­SO, RICHARD RYBAR, JOHN SCHAEFER, JOHN SENYCZKO, EDWARD SHER.MAN, .MATT SIED­LECKI, DONALD SMITH, MAURICE S.MITH, R/VY.MOND SOBOTA, MARTIN SODETZ, R.AY­.MOND SPOERL, A.NTON STERKER, ROBERT STRODE, EUGENE SULLIVAN, JOHN F. SUL­Ln'AN, JOSEPH SULLIV,VN, JOSEPH TOY, EDWARD T\VOHEy, ROBERT VIERHILE, FRvWK VITTORI, WALTER VOITIK, JOH.V WALSH, LOU WATKINS, LEO WESLEY, CR.\IG WHITAKER, JOSEPH WHITE, JOSEPH WIL­LETT, THO.\L\S WILLIAMS AND JOSEPH WOERTH. 
ROBERT L. JONES is in Germany studying under a Fulbright Scholarship. 
GERALD I. LUBIN received a Doctor of Jledi­cinc degree at the University of Texas this past June. He will ser^'e his internship starting July 1st at Queen of Angels Hospital, Los Angeles, Calif. 
NORBERT E. SMITH, JR., has recently become affiliated with' the Dow Chemical Company, Mid­land, Mich. 
Rev. DAVID K. O'ROURKE, O.P., was recently ordained to the priesthood of the Dominican Order. The ordination took place at Christ the King Chapel, Loras College, and the ceremony was performed by Bishop Lane, '32, president of the college and Auxiliary Bishop of Dubuque. After ordination, Father O'Rourke will return to Du­buque to study for another year prior to a preach­ing or teaching post in this country or the foreign missions of Japan and Nigeria. 
JUNE lo-ii-i^ ^ ;^ 

m ac n Richard F. Hahn ITOU 5440 No. Winthrop Chicago, Illinois 
CLASS REUNIO.N ATTENDANCE ROBERT BOSLER, JOSEPH LEONE, JOHN C. LYONS, GENE PASZKIET, .\URSHAL PRUNTY 
AND BOB WELCH. Tills month's column will be brief due to a low letter volume of late. Three letters have come in and here they are: REV. THO.M.4S .MICHAEL .MARKOS was or-
THE 

CATHOLIC CHURCH 
in WORLD AFFAIRS 
 P09«*' , 
Curre-t •«-«««-"*"''= 
Popes and Church-SUte P«W«"J^-' _p.pal aipl'^ 
macy..'"°' The Chii«" ""'.. „ 
social qua^fion ••j\„^„. Ualy. Sp.'". ;„ England. S«many.f'y_^.,^jS,.»es. • •.:-A.manca.»"''" _ 
WALDEMAR GURIAN 
and At. A. FnzsiMONs 420 
JOHNCbURTNEVA: EDWARD L. HESTOX. Jro.VSIGNOR IIARRY OSKAR BAUIIOFER 
YVES R. SIMON­
HCINRICII ROMMEN IKARL TIIIEMF 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 1954 49 
daincd at Notre Dame on June 9, 1954, and of­fered hut first Solemn Mass at St. Grcgor>''s in Chicago .on June 13, 1954. God's speed in your work, Tom. 
DR. JAMES E. McMEEL, JR., and his wife announced the 3rm*al of their first on'spring, Kath­leen >tarie, on April 3, 1954. Jim graduated from Chicago Medical School June 26, 1954, and is now intermng at Milwaukee County Hospital, in Mil­u*aukee. Wis. 
GEORGE SEEGER writes: "\Vc noi%- number four with our latest model coming' out in Septem­ber. That'll make this year's Christmas cards read Gerrie, Mark, Barbara, ???? and George. To keep the statistics straight, ^fark is now 26 months 
old, Barby is 11 months old and Gerrie is (?) years old, that is considered classified informa'ion in these parts, and I'm rapidly approaching 60!! 
"Am presently empIo>*ed by the Bcndix Products Dirision of the Bcndix Axiation Corporation at tlie Mishavvaka, Ind., Plant. Am doing a little bit of cx'erythlng there including some trips to Baltimore and AVashington, which isn't too bad as I can rene\%' my old acquaintance with Balantine Ale! To use up my spare time in the winter montlis I am going to the Alma Mater's night school track­ing down an ^I.S. in E.E. 
"RAY GANS is also working at the ^Hshawaka Plant, so Bcddix will have a couple of new chief janitors in a ample of >'c^X5. 
"ED HUGHES is also working in South Bend and last I heard from him he was with Indiana and Midilgan Electric Company. DON NARDUCCI and spousu arc also bacJc in South Bend. Don is presently \rith Ball Band and Just moved in about a stone's throw from the old homestead. \Vc ha\*cn't gotten around to chawing the; fat yet as wc arc both losing tlic battle \ritli ye olde crab grass. 
"HOUIE \VURTH bit the dust this spring up in Jackson, Michigan. Didn't make the xvedding as Bcndix had mc in the cast that weekend. 
"Last I heard from JOHN TW'O-BEER' SHER­WOOD was that he u-as still in Detroit with De­troit Edison. 
"Might throw out a little imite to the old gang to drop in or call if they're in South Bend. Phone 4-0867 or drop in 545 Manchester Drive." 
RICHARD M. AfOSIER received a DDS degree recently at the Unt\'crsity of Kansas City. THOMAS ^V. DUNNING recently received a graduate degree from St. Louis University. 
PIERRE A. ESPENAX was awarded a Doctor -of Medicine degree at Louisiana State University on May 31. 
JAMES E. ^VACK has recci\-ed a Doctor of Medicine degree from Lo>-ola University at com­mencement exercises June 2. 
EDWARD J. SAMARIO is no^*-a member of the technical staflf of the Hughes Research and De­velopment Laboratories, Culver City, Calif. 
WILLLVM J. O'CONNOR is the Republican -candidate for judge in the Lako Superior Court, Hammond, Ind. ROBERT J. HOFSTETTER was ordained to the priesthood recently in Naahxille, Tenn. 
RICHARD J. KLOECKER received a Doctor of Mcdiinne degree from Loyola University, Chicago, 111., on June 2. 
Now for two small notes—DON MURPHY, '49, has left Amphenal and is currently seeking new 
•
employment. Also, \-our secrctar>' has left Ford ^fotor after V/z years and is now with Cook Elec­tric Company in dieir Inland testing laboratories in 

•Chicago.
 TTiat's it for now. 


VAP ^ Robert J. Klini;cnbcr|;er I T O I 1717 Pcmberton Drive Fort A\^ayne, Indiana 
CLASS REUNION ATTENDANCE DAVID GUSHURST. 
DAMD D. SMITH recently spoke on "U. S. Navy Hydrographic Survey Operations in Arctic and Tropic Waters" at a recent lecture meeting of the Explorers Club in New York City. Pres­ently on duty in Washington with the U. S. Nav>­as Lt. (jg), he completed his period of ser\'icc in June and will spend the summer engaged in geologic field work in the Fairbanks, Alaska, area. This coming September Dave will begin graduate work in geology at Stanford Univcrsit>*. 
DICK KOSMICKI is now on the sporu staff -of the Harrisburg Patriot-Nc^vs. He was formerly a police beat reporter on the same paper. 
PRESTON V. MURPHY recently received a Master of Arts degree from Washington Univer­sity, St. Lotni, Mo. 

John S, MacCauIcy, '41, is a new member of the Notre Dame Foundation staff. His family is as foIIo^^-s: Mrs. MacCauIey; John S. holding Thomas; Mark; and John. 
lAE^ Harry L. Buch 
• '3 A 309 Fisher Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
DO.VALD T. MULLANEY recently received a ^faster of Automotive Engineering degree at the Chr>"sler Institute of Engineering, Detroit. He was one of 57 engineering graduates selected from 27 colleges for participation in the Insiitu;e*s two-year post-graduate course in automotive engineering. 
JOHN A. MANNLVG has been selected editor of tlic Fordham La\v Review for the 1954-55 aca­demic year. 
RAY GIBBONS is now at Georgetown Medical School on a grant from the Joseph Collins Founda­tion a^vardod to him on the basis of ''good stand­ing." 
DAN CAULFIELD has been drafted from Law School and is no%v in Headquarters Company, Linz, Austria, according to acws received from his mother, Mrs. D. Webster Caulfield, 736 ^^'esIe^• .Avenue, Oakland, Calif. 
JOSEPH W. LANG, JR., is attending George­town Univcrsit>' Law School. 
RONALD R. ^VILDER is stadoned at Fort Ben­jamin Harrison, Indiana, with the 9003 Personnel Section. 
FRANK J. SEMETKO is special agent employed by the Prudential Insurance Company of America in Suite 1811, The Ohio Building, 405 Madison .Avenue, Toledo 4, Ohio. Frank, according to the latest information, was to be married on July 3 to 
Miss Agnes Fischbach at St. Agnes Church in Toledo. JAMES ST.ABILE has recently been inducted into the U. S. Army. 
10C9  Euf^ene D. Fannin.c:  
I TO O  J. p. Smith Shoe  Company  
North  Sangamon  &  Huron  Sts.  

Chicago 22, Illinois 

Yours truly will be taking over this column of keeping you up on )*our class nc^^'s since ENSIGN THOMAS ^^^ REED Y and his new bride, the former Dedc Bremner of Kenilworth, Ulinois, are headed for foreign seas at this ivriting. Tom fin­
»i, 

ished up his Na\'al Supply School Training at .Athens, Geor^a, and u-as assigned once again to .Athens, but this time it was not Georgia but Greece. ^Vc all want to nncerely thank Tom for his wonderful contributions in keeping us posted about the whereabouts of our classmates and at the same time wish him and Dcde the world of success in Greece for tlic next dghteen months. 
Received a note from JIMMY ^VILCOX who Is stationed at Fort Lewis, Washington. He is con-^i,-\ , nccted with the Regimental Supply Office, ^*"hich is right next door to MIKE McNULTV in Di\-ision Finance. WHISKEY SHEEHAN is also at Fort Lei^-is in the Medical Corps. 
JOE TRUCCO took Ann Schmitt to the altar on June 26 in Chicago. Jli ! O'BRIEN came in from 
.50 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1954 

his Army Supply duties at Fort Eustis, Va,, in order to 5cr\c as an usher. JIM CELfVNO, who just completed his first year in law school at George­town, was also In the wedding party. 
ENSIGN BILL REIDY reports from San Fran­cisco where he Is stationed on an LST that he ran into LEE TAVIS and his \Wfe who are also based in Frisco. ENSIGN REGIS PHILBIN also makes his base there. Reg was saying that he expects Ensign BILL ALVUS and Iiis new bride, the former Jane Ann Bidwill of River Forest, Illinois, to arrive any day in order for Bill to pick up his ship. 
Ran into BOB KELLY who has just been trans­ferred to an anti-aircraft base in Chicago. He likes it in Chicago but is looking forward to getting back lo Duhith. TOM McNAMAR-A, JOE PAGLIARI and TO.M MORSCH just completed their first year in Nortb\vc>tcm's school of law. Speaking about law and graduate students, BOB BERNER ranked in nne of the highest spots of first year law stu­dents at Har\-ard. along with his Glee Club room­mate, JOHN PORTA, although John is enrolled in llar\ard's Business School, DAVE AHLERING also finished up his third year in Dentistry- at Loy­
ola and returns this summer to school with a vacation break of but a few days. 
Went down to Notre Dame on June 5 for the graduation exercises and ran into JOHN NOL/\ND and GENE GORSKI who are going back in Sep­tember for their last year before picking up a Master's Degree in Arts. Also talked to TOM SCHAUB who is spending the summer at his home in Hammond, Indiana, before moving on to Winona, Minn., for further studies in the Dominican Order. 
JOHN OT*OOLE and TO.M TABOR arc at Camp Gordon in Georgia. J. J. is in the Counter Intelligence Corps while Tom is the General's /Vide. DON BERGMAN is still pitcliing baseballs but this lime it is on a Carrier deck somewhere in the Panama Canal Zone. JOE HARRISON made BILL SAHM*5 ('51) wedding in Crawfordsviltc, Indiana, on June 5. Don't know whether Joe is practicing law in the Army or not. AL FILERS and JERRY MCCLOSK Y just finished their training at Qnan­tico Marine Base. L/\RRY PRIDMORE took the former Miss Jean Barrett as his bride on May 29 in 
St. Francis Church of LaGrange, Illinois. Saw JERRY ADLER, JERRY HAMMES and S.\NDY PERRY at the wedding reception. Jerry Adier is selling printing in Chicago while Hammcs and Pcrr>' are stationed at 5th Army headquarters on Lake Shore Drive. 
BOB LEE and his wife, the former Joan Daley of River Forest, Illinois, arc down at Scott Air Base outside of St. Louis where Bob and JIAf GE/\REN arc In school as 2nd' Lts. Ran into DON DORINI last week who is doing a wonderful job in the wholesale produce business on South Water Street in Chicago. AL/\N P/\NDO received his ensign's commission and is now on a freighter somewhere in the South Pacific TOM MURPHY has left General Motors to take up his 2nd Lieuts. duties. He is expecting to be a father very shortly. Our congratulations to LUKE MOORE who was a proud papa in April. 
DAN J.-VMES will be coming home from Fort Eustis, Va.. to marr>' Corrinc O'Brien on July 24. BILL TOOHEY, who is doing very well at the Board of Trade in Chicago, wlti be in the wedding. L:\RRY McNALLY has just completed hb basic training at Fort Leonard Wood but have not heard where he is now stationed. EDG.AR C. O'CON­NOR is stationed with Btry. B, 509lh Armd. FA Bn., DIv. Arty., 3rd Armd. DIv., Fort Knox, Ken­tuckv. Ed reports that other alumni there include VIC GEORGE, NORB LEWINSKI, TOM ILUIIL­TON and JOE DeSAUTELS. 
That's about all for now. I would certainly appreciate it if you fellows would drop mc a note so I might pass it on to the rest of the gang as to what you're doing and who you are with. Best of luck. 
Incv l George A. Pflaum '3' * 200 Squirrel Road Dayton, Ohio 
.After the transition from imdcrgraduate to alumnus and the adventuring to tlic four corners of the globe by most of us it would be an easy process to lose touch with the fellow members of our class. We hope that through the use of tins space we can prevent the high peak of spirit in the class of '5i from ebbing. The procedure will be simple. Just drop me a line and let me know-what you arc doing and where )'ou are and it will be printed in our ALUMNUS magazine. ' Don't hesitate to send photographs of you and yours, we'll make every effort to use them too. If in your travels you run into other members of the class be sure to mention their whereabouts to us also. 
Wishing you every success in your future cn­dea^'ors and looking for\%-ard to hearing from you, I remain, 
Sincerely, GEORGE PFLAUM, JR., Secretary, Class of ISM' 

APOSTLE of the SACRED HEART 
Around 1900 there was a Brother at Notre Dame who had a great devotion to the Sacred Heart. Hb name was Brother Columba, OS.C. 
Besides repairing shoes. Brother used to make Sacred Heart badges and pass them out among the students at Notre Dame. 
Before long, crowds were looting Brother, asking him to bless them with one of his badges. Many favors and some bodily cures seem Co have been granted. 
If you would like a Sacred Heart badge and a picture of Brother Columba, send a self-ad­dressed envelope to 
The Brother Columba Apostolate, Box 19, Notre Dame, Indiana 
They are free. These Two Hearts, a 64-page booklet about Brother Columba, is 50c postpaid. 
Please Mail Your Gift ISlow 
TO: THE 12th ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND 
NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Noire Dame Alumnus, AueustSeptembeT, 1954 . SI 
Alumni Association Board of Directors 
Officers 

John H. Necson, Jr., '35 ; Honorary President James G. McGoldrick, '39 President 
J. Ralph Coryn, '22 _...First Vice-President John W. Courtney, '25 : Second Vice-President Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17 Third Vice-President 
James E. Annstrong, '25 iDirector and Secretary 
Directors to 1955 

James G. McGoldrick, '39 149 Broadway, New York, New York 
J. Ralph Coryn, '22 2545 13th St., Moline, 111. John W. Courtney, '25 .401 S. Highland Dr., Dearborn, Mich. 
Karl Martersteck, '29 _1630 Williamson Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 
Directors to 1956 

Daniel Culhane, '23 130 East Bradley Lane, Chcxy Chase, Md. Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17 5121 Ellsworth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. John F. Saunders, '31 Jlandschu­macher & Co., 48 North St., Boston, Mass. R t Rev. Msgr. J. B. Toomey, '26 261 E. Onondaga, Syracuse, N. Y. 
Directors to 1957 

James L. Ferstel, '48 730 Sheridan Road, Wilmette, 111. Robert H. Gore, Jr., '31 . Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft Lauderdale,. Fla. John E. Mclntyre, '31 206 East Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., '37 209 N. Big Spring St., Midland, Texas 
Chairmen of the 1954 Committees 

James G. McGoldrick Executive John F. Saunders JBudget and Finance Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell 
• . Foundation, Alumni Fund, Gifts 

John W. Courtney  Club Activities  
J. Ralph Coryn  ^.Class Acti\'ities  
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell  

-Job Counseling a;id Placement John W. Courtney Religion and Citizenship Msgr. Joseph B. Toomey Prestige and Public Relations Karl Martersteck Preparatory School Relations Daniel Culhane ..Inter-American Association 
J. Ralph Coryn Jlcsolutions Daniel Culhane Jiominations 
The Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dame 
July 25, 1954 Dear Notre Dame Men: 
It is always an exhilarating experience to visit Notre Dame. Those of us who recently attended the class reunions and the Club Presidents Council will verify this fact. 
One receives an instant impression that here is a busy place. New educational facilities regularly make their appearance. There are al­ivays new, sound plans for improvement. New ideas, too, are always welcome. 
Not so obvious is the activity of the faculty members who add meaning to these facilities, these plans, these ideas. During the past several years I have had the enviable opportunity of meeting with many faculty members. The vigor of their endeavor, the alertness of their minds and the consistency of their determination to achieve educational accomplishments are impressive. 
You, too, have been similarly impressed—those of you who had like opportimities to meet the faculty. Although we have all, I am cer­tain, conveyed these impressions to our friends at the University, I feel that a mention of our regard for the faculty is a topic pertinent to a letter such as tliis, since so many of you have commented to me in this respect. 
The educational accomplishments of these men are regularly docu­mented, but frequently this information does not come to our attention. They, too, are constantly engaged in research on new concepts and in testing new plans. There is no doubt that this vigorous, enlightened en­deavor on the part of Notre Dame's educators must secure for die University' a position of leadership recognized by all. 
In your behalf, I offer to them our congratulations and our prayers that God will bless their futiuB efforts. 
Yours sincerely. 
James G. McGoldrick President 
raiNTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 

Gifts to Notre Dame Indicate '54 Increase 
Notre Dame Foundation progress is extremely encouraging with returns for the first three quarters of the calendar year indicating marked improvement in numbers and in amount. As the ALUMNUS goes to press 7,024 alumni have contributed $336,830 compared wt h 5,535 alumni gifts and $148,729 at this same time in 1953. Contribu­tions from non-alumni friends are also on the increase over last year. The statistics reveal that 617 friends have given $250,359 thus far in 1954, while 573 non-alumni gave $213,824 during a similar period in '53. Response from alumni in the final quarter of 1954 can boost the number and amount of alum­ni gifts to an all-time record. 
Contacts are being made by Founda­tion staff personnel with corporations throughout various sections of the na­tion. The Fall issue of NOTRE DAME announced the designation of four dis­tricts each of which will be under the responsibility of Foundation office rep­resentatives. Allan Powers, '51, will have charge of the following states in District 1: Michigan, Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Da­kota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho, Washington and Oregon. In­cluded in District II under tlie jurisdic­tion of Richard Bowes, '38, are: Illi­nois, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Col­orado, New Mexico, Utah, Arizona, Nevada and California. 
James W. Frick, '51, will work in the following states of District III: Indi­ana, Kentucky, Tennessee, Noith Ca­rolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Mis­sissippi, Florida, Louisiana, Alabama, Arkansas and Texas. District IV, un­der the supervision of John S. Mac-Cauley, '41, will consist of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, New York, Mas­sachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, 
Volume 32 No. October, 1954 
James E. AmistTong, '23 Editor 
John N. CacUey, '37 
Managing Editor 

113th Academic Year Begins With Record ND Enrollment 
Forty Nine New Faculty Members Appointed 
The largest enrollment in Notre Dame's history, more tlian 5424 stu­dents, highlights the beginning of the University's 113th academic year. Al­though classes began on Sept. 23 the formal opening of the schoolyear was observed with a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a sermon by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, the following Sun­day. The Mass was preceded by a col­orful academic procession of more than 500 faculty members from the Main Building to the Church. 
Freshmen were given a week-long orientation program prior to the regis­tration of upperclassmen. Various of­ficers of the University administration and deans of the colleges spoke to first-year men at special sessions. About 1,500 freshmen will be mem­bers of the 1958 class. 
A new department head and 49 new faculty membei-s have been appointed according to the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of aca-
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio, Dela­ware, Maryland, West Virginia and Virginia. 
The four district managers will be responsible for contacts in their area with corporations. State Governors, City Chairmen and other individuals. 
Work on the Hammes Shopping Center is progressing and it is hoped that this building will be ready for use before year-end. It was provided by a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes, Kankakee, 111., and will cost $250,000. 
demic affairs. The Rev. Herman R. Reith, C.S.C., has been named head of the Philosophy Department succeed­ing the Rev. Bernard I. MuUahy, C.S.C., who will continue as Assistant Provincial of the Indiana province. Three visiting professors will teach at Notre Dame during the schoolyear. 
.Dr. Joseph A. Becker, of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., vfill con­duct a seminar in the Department of Physics. 
Dr. Vladimir Seidel will be visiting professor of mathematics. He is on the faculty at the University of Roches­ter. Dr. Robert C. Turner, of Indiana University, will be visiting professor in the College of Commerce. 
ALUMNI CLUB FOOTBALL RALLIES 
NA\ ^ GAME WXEKEXD—Baltimore: at Emerson Hotel, Fri. ntglit, Oct. 29; Sat., Oct. 30, 5-8 p.m., cocktail party at Emerson; Washinston: Fri. night, 8:30 p.m., at Wardman Park Hotel. 
PENNSYLVANIA GAME WEEKEND — Fliiladelphia: Fri. night, No%*. 5, at ^Var­wick Hotel. Sat., 2iov. 6, cocktail party after game at War^vicfc Hotel. 
IO\VA GAME ^VEEKENI>—Davenport: Fri. night, Nov. 19, 8 p.m., in Blackhawk Hotel. This is not a stag afFalr—wives arc inntcd. 
• 

SOUTHERN METHODIST ^VEEKEND— Dallas: Friday night, Dec 3, Peacock Terrace of Baker Hotel. 
Edward D. Lewis and his father Frank J. I^wis receive degrees at Smnmer CommencemcnL 
Prominent Catholic Layman Honored by N.D. 
Frank J. Lewis, Chicago industrial­ist and philanthropist, received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree while his son, Edward D., was awarded a bachelor's degree at Notre Dame's summer commencement exercises. A prominent Catholic layman, the elder Mr. Lewis is founder and board chair­man of the F. J. Lewis Manufacturing Co., and president of the Lewis School of Aeronautics. He is a well-known benefactor of Catholic charities and last year provided funds for the Lewis 
Four Faculty Deaths 
Two present members of the faculty and tivo former Notre Dame professors died during the summer. Raymond V. Pence was injured in the wreck of the Santa Fe Railroad's Chief near Lo-max. 111., and died a few days later. Mr. Pence was a professor in the De­partment of English, and had been on the Notre Dame faculty since 1930. He received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Indiana University. Mr. Pence was elder of the First Presby-Bus Shelter located at the main en­trance of Notre Dame's campus. 

One hundred sLxty-one graduate and undergraduate students, nearly half of them nuns, received degrees. The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the University, was celebrant of the Baccalaureate Mass and conferred degrees at the gradua­tion exercises. The commencement ad­dress was given by Mr. John J. Brod­erick, assistant dean of Notre Dame's Law School. 
terian Church in South Bend and a member of various academic organiza­tions. Survivors include his widow; three sons, John G., Robert L., and Ernest F.; and two daughters, Mrs. Ale-x Nagy and Mrs. J. C. Weaver, Jr. 
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, head of the Political Science Department, died as the result of a cerebral hemorrhage in South Haven, Mich. He was an inter­nationally-known authority on Soviet Russia and had joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937. Dr. Gurian, bom in Leningrad, Russia, became an American citizen in 1943. He wrote numerous books, among them "Bol­shevism: An Introduction to Soviet Commimism." Dr. Gurian was chair­man of Notre Dame's International Relations Committee. He is survived by his widow and a daughter, Joan. 
Dr. Albert F. Zahm, '83, a scientific pioneer in aviation, died July 23 in the student infirmary after a year's illness. His age was 92. Dr. Zahm built a wind tunnel on the campus about 20 years before the Wright Brothers made their first flight. He received the Lae­tare Medal in 1925 and an honorary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1917. From 1929 to 1946 he was chief of the aeronautical division of the Library of Congress. Dr. Zahm was unmarried. 
Jose Angel Caparo, '08, professor emeritus of electrical engineering, died July 12. Dr. Caparo, a native of Cuzco, Peru, served on the Notre Dame facul­ty for thirty-three years and was head of the electrical engineering depart­ment from 1918 to 1939. He retired in 
1946 as a result of ill health. In 1953 
Dr. Caparo wrote an historical novel 
about 16th century Peru. In addition 
to Notre Dame Dr. Caparo held de­
grees from the University of San An­
tonio, Peru, and the University of Chi­
cago. Surviving are his widow and 
two sons, Joseph, '46, and Edward, '47. 
BULLETIN! 

Mr. Joseph R. Farrell, '15, Gov­ernor of the Notre Dame Foundation in Pennsylvania, died in Harrisburg, Pa., on October 11 after a brief ill­ness. He was extremely active in the Alumni Assocition, the Founda­tion program and ci\-ic affairs. Joe is survived by his ividow and three daughters. 
For the past 38 years Joe Farrell had been employed by the General Electric Co., and at the time of his death he was in charge of GE's local office in Harrisburg. After a successful term as City Chairman, the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., then president of Notre Dame, ap­pointed Mr. Farrell in 1951 to di­rect the Foundation program in Pennsylvania. His devotion to the University was inspirational to the hundreds of Notre Dame alumni who knew him personally. 
Joe Farrell lived at 32 N. 27th St., Camp Hill, Pa., a suburban section of Harrisburg. 
2 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
PLACEMENT CHAIRMEN APPOINTED IN CLUBS 
The Notre Dame Placement Office, under the direction of William R. Doo­ley, '26, has aimounced the following new appointees who will fimction as placement chairmen in alumni clubs: 
BOSTON—John V. Moran, '30, 31 State St., Boston, Mass. 
CHICAGO—James R. Martin, '23, Olney J. Dean Steel Co., 933 E. 95th St., Chicago, 111. 
CLEVELAND—Clayton G. Lerou.x, '27, Monarch Aluminum Manufac­turing Co., Detroit Ave. at West 93rd St., Cleveland, Ohio. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY—Donald 
F. McManus, '32, Landers Frary & Clark, New Britain, Conn. 

DETROIT—John W. Brennan, '27, American Blower Corp., Detroit, Mich. 
INDIANAPOLIS—John D. Harring­ton, '29, George S. Olive Co., 528 Chamber of Commerce Bldg., 320 
N. Meridian St., Indianapolis, Ind. 

KENTUCKY—Joseph F. Donaldson, '23, 613 Wataga Drive, Louisville, Ky. 
MILWAUKEE —Edward J. Rogers, '17, Layne-Northwest Co., 6005 W. Martin Drive, Milwaukee, Wis. 
NEW JERSEY—Joseph P. O'Toole, Jr., '48, 74 Longfellow Ave., New­ark, N. J. 
NEW YORK CITY—Francis J. Con­forti, '43, The Tuition Plan,, 347 Fifth Ave., New York City. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — A. Ward McMuUen, '25, The Na­tional Cash Register Co., 777 Mis­sion St., San Francisco, Calif. 
PITTSBURGH—John C. Sheedy, '28, Lincoln National Life Insurance Co., Farmers Bank Bldg., Pitts­burgh, Pa. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—William R. Dooley, '26, Placement Director, Notre Dame. 
N.B.—^Any alumnus desiring employ­ment aid elsewhere can communicate wth the president of the appropriate alumni club. 
PEORI.\—John E. Cassidy, '17 (center) was named "Man of the Year." He has been a practicing attorney since his graduation from Notre Dame in 1917. From 1938 to 1941, John ser\'cd as attorney general of Illinois. Included in the group are: William B. Wom* bacher, past club president; Cassidy; and Jack Jacobs, new club president. 
AB. ENGINEERING STUDENTS 
TAKE COMBINED COURSES 
A cooperative liberal arts-engineer­ing program designed to provide stu­dents with the cultural background of a liberal education as well as technical engineering training has been instituted by St. Francis College, Loretto, Pa., and Notre Dame. Under the coopera­tive program, students may receive both their bachelor of arts and engi­neering degrees within a period of five years. 
Officials of the two schools explained that students may pursue a prescribed liberal arts course at St. Francis Col­lege for three years and then go to Notre Dame for two years' training in their chosen field of engineering. These students will be awarded their 
A.B. degree as soon as they have com­pleted the liberal arts requirements at St. Francis and will receive their engi­neering degree from Notre Dame at the end of the five-year period. 
Five other Catholic colleges have established the cooperative liberal arts-engineering program in conjunction with Notre Dame. They are St. Thom­as College, St. Paul, Minn.; St. Vin­cent College, Latrobe, Pa.; St. Joseph College, CoUegeville, Ind.; Villa Ma­donna College, Covington, Ky.; and St. Benedict College, Atchison, Kansas. 
Meeting at LOBUND 
A recent academic meeting on cam­pus was attended by distinguished sci­entists who are members of a group that advises the Office of Naval Re­search on microbiological projects. During the sessions the visitors in­spected facilities of LOBUND Insti­tute and listened to reports on its bio­logical and medical research. Repre­sentatives included: North Carolina, Johns Hopkins, Duke, Rochester, Cali­fornia, Iowa and Notre Dame. 
October 
Barth to Supervise Television Station 
Tlie appointment of Bernard C. Barth, Cincinnati, Oliio, as vice-presi­dent and general manager of the com­mercial UHF television station to be operated by the University of Notre Dame was announced recently by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesbui^h, C.S.C., president. The new station, whose call letters have not yet been assigned, will be affiliated with the National Broad­casting Company, Father Hesburgh said. 
Barth. who is currently serving as general program manager for radio station AVLW, Cincinnati, and the 
BERNARD C. BARTH 
AVLW-TV network, is a veteran of 18 years in radio and television. Prior to joining the \VL\\' staff in 1948, Barth served as program direc-
ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 32, No. 5 October, 1954 Notre Dame, Ind. 

MIAMI—^Jerrj- Holland received "Man of club president; Holland; Fred Jones; and 
tor at WLOS, Asheville, N. C , and KRGV, Weslaco, Tc-vas. Subsequently he served as an announcer, writer and producer with station WKRC and the Ralph H. Jones advertising agency in Cincinnati and \VFIL, Philadelphia. 
CARDINAL TALKS AT INSTITUTE OPENING 
His Eminence Valcrio Cardinal Valeri, Prefect of the Sacred Congre­gation of Religious, addressed the for­mal opening of the Institute of Spir­ituality at Notre Dame recently. More than 650 Sister Superior and Novice Mistresses, representing virtually every women's religious community in the United States, were present. At a spe­
 the Year" award. Left to right: Ed Kelly,  Bill Dooley, guest speaker from the campus. 
cial University convocation in Wash­ington Hall Cardinal Valeri received an honoraiy Doctor of Laws degree from Notre Dame. 
Cardinal Valeri spent the early years of his piiesthood as a seminar^' pro­fessor. He later was assigned to the Vatican's diplomatic ser\'ice and held posts as apostolic delegate or nuncio to Eg)-pt, Palestine, Roumania and France. Shortly after the outbreak of \Vorld \Var II he was named Under­secretar)' of the Sacred Congregation for the Oriental Church. Pope Pius XII named Archbishop Valeri e.\ecu­tive chairman of the committee for the organization of the Holy Year in 1950 and three years later elevated him to the cardinalate. 
He recently attended the Canadian National Congress of Religious Men and AVomen. 
Entered as Second Class matter . tl October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, '\, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of ' 1 August 24, 1912. 
Return postage guaranteed 









