The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 42, No. 3 June-July, 1964 

teNi NIGHTS 
(See pp. 2-3, 36-37) 

Vol. 42, No. 3 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 


NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNEll, C.S.C.. '•)!, Columnist 
Contents: 
CHALLENGE II NIGHT IN CHICAGO. Paul Fullmer '55 Where There Was Hope, There Was Life 3 
EDITORIAL Comment FROM YOUR ALUMNI SECRETARY. Jim Armstrong '25 Persuasion and Clubs 
4 

STRANGERS IN PARADISE: The Armstrongs in Hawaii Alumni Board Gift Becomes Busman's Holiday 5 
FOOTBALL TICKET INFORMATION FOR 1964. Bob Cahill '34 Challenge for the Coach, "Challenge Too" for the Office 6 
MAN AND THE MOMENT. Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell CSC '41 A Time of Trial Leading to Eternity 8 
FIRST KNUTE ROCKNE FESTIVAL OPENS JULY 5 Pictorial Report on Cedar Point, Ohio 9 
FACULTY: TRADITION OF GREAT TEACHING Seventy Specimens of a Heritage Worth Extending 10 
THE STUDENT SLANT. Warren C. Stephens '64 Highlights of the Spring Semester 12 
1964 CLASS REUNION PROGRAM 
13 

THE QUIET WAR: Letters of Capt. Jerry Shank "59 A Young Flier's Death in Vietnam Arouses the Conscience of the Nation 14 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS Memorial Library Dedication and the Notre Dome Collection 16 
"THE BIG RETREAT." Rev. John Marek CSC '36 Unique Notre Dame Lay Retreat Repeats August 13-16 18 
NEW NAME FOR TEACHING APOSTOLATE. Rev. Harry Baker CSC '54 Volunteer Teachers' Service is Now the Catholic Lay Mission Corps 20 
NOTRE DAME SPORTS. Charlie Callahan '38 Football, Basketball and Spring Sport Roundup 22 
NOTRE DAME CLUBS UND Night Reports and Pictures, Spotlight Club, etc. 24 
CHALLENGE II NIGHTS A Pictorial Report on Three of 30 Events to Date 36 
NOTRE DAME CLASSES Statistics, Spotlight Alumni, President's Letter (p. 72) 42 
Athletic Director Edward W. Krause describes facilities of the newly de­signed Athletic and Convocation Center to Chicago alumni at a special 

Cover: 
press conference in Johnny Lattner's Steak House (clockwise from upper left): Chuck Falkenberg '52, Joe Archibald '50, Tom Hannon '50, Poul Fullmer '55, Krause '34, Art Conrad '35, Fr. Jack Anton '38 and Laltner '54. National Chairman Krause has completed about 30 fabulously successful Challenge II Nights around the nation (see opposite, pp. 36-37 and throughout this issue) and looks forward to another 100 with the help of the coaches and the Notre Dome Foundation staff. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
June-July, 1964' 
JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, '48, Managing Ediloi BRUCE HARUN, '49, Phatograf^ 




ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
OLIVER H. HUNTER III, '43 
Honorary President 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 President 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 
Fund Vice-Presidmi 
.•\LBERT D . CASTELLIINT, '24 Club Vice-President j 
TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30 
Class Vice-President 
JAMES E. .•\RMSTRONC, '25 
Executive Secretary 
Directors to 1965 
ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 506 First NauonaJ Bank Building, Cincinnati, O. 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA, '51 ^ 1510 Ogden, LaGrange, lU. ' • 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washingfon Rd., Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY, '30 12 Windcnnere Ave, Arlington 74, Mass. 

Directors to 1966 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR. '44 444 Golf Rd., Deal Park, N.J. 
PAUL I. FENLON, '19 141 Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
MORTON R. GOODMAN, '30 2415 Pilgrimage Trail, Los Angeles 28, Calif. 
W. LANCASTER SMITH, '50 Dallas Athletic Club Building, Dallas I, Tex. .— 

Directors to 1967 
THO-MAS P. CARNEY, '37 202 East 75th St., Indianapolis 40, Ind. 
BERTRAND D . COUGHLIN, M.D., '26 16 Thomdell Dr., St. Louis (Richmond Heights), Iifo. 63117 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY, '52 
155 Ralph Ave., White Plains, N.Y. 
HERBERT M . SAMPSON, '50 735 North 57 Ave., Omaha, Neb. 68132 

Chairmen of the 1964 Committees 
PAUL I. FENLON Academic Affa^ 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, JR _ Admissions 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR 
Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts 
W. LANCASTER SMITH Athletics 
W. LANCASTER SMITH .... Budget & Finance 
TIMOTHY J. TOOMEY Class Activities 
ALBERT D . CASTELLINI Club Activities 
PHILIP J. FACCENDA Executive 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., AND TIMOTHY 
J. TOOMEY Nominations 
MORTON R. GOODMAN .( 
Placement & Job Counseling 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, 
Public Relations & Development 
PAUL I. FENLON Religion & Citizenship 
MORTON R. GOODMAN Student Affairs 
This magaziiie is published bi'monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as seoond.c1ass mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post OCSce, Notre Dame, Ind., imder the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 




CHALLENGE II NIGHT IN CHICAGO 
• 
Where There Was Hope, There Was Life 
By PAUL FULLMER '55 President, Notre Dame Club of Chicago (See pictures on pp. 36-37) 
 SHORT, Chicago's Challenge II 
I
N 
dinner was a GALA! 
This was an almost certain con­
dusion, of course, when Bob Hope an­
nounced that he would accompany his 
wife to the Windy City. Dolores Hope 
was selected as Chicago's Notre Dame 
"Lady of the Year" by the Club and 
its Women's Auxiliary. 
More than 650 people turned out March 2 in the grand ballroom of the Palmer House to salute Dolores Hope for her exemplary years as a Christian another. 
With Bob on the scene, the crowd knew that it was only a matter of time before the nation's No. 1 enter­tainer moved into the spotlight. Here's how Time Magazine described the fast-moving antics after the award ceremonies: 
"He nervously: 'What are you go­ing to say?' She, coyly: 'Well, you haven't written anything for me yet.' He, mutteringly: 'I can tell she's go-4|g to upstage me.' And right he was. Rising at a dinner of Chicago's Notre Dame Club to accept their 'AVoman of the Year' award, Dolores Hope in­troduced her husband of 30 years: 'AVell, I've either got to use Bob's idiot cards or give you the idiot himself. 
Bob, you're on.' The comic valiantly flip-quipped his way through 30 minutes (the one time he was angry with his wife: 'The morning I came downstairs and found her sitting in my spotlight'), but the night belonged to Dolores. Said a telegram to the club from the Hopes' four adopted chil­dren: 'Thank you for recognizing what we have known all along.' Bob just beamed. 'I feel like Prince Philip,' he said." 
As Time pointed out, the evening belonged to Dolores Hope. Radiant in a beautiful white dress, she captivated one and all. From the moment she walked into the private reception on the top floor of the Palmer House until she dashed with Bob for a late plane to Washington (they were to meet President Johnson the next morn­ing for a series of Easter seal pictures), Dolores Hope dominated the dinner with the chami of a princess. 
Amid flashing cameras and whirl­ing TV cameras, Dolores Hope moved through a busy day as if she had been in the nation's eye all her life. Within a half hour she and Bob posed for a color photograph to grace the cover of the Chicago Tribune Sunday sup­plement, plus nearly a hundred news 

1 ATHLETIC AND CONVOCATION CENTER was somewhat upstaged by gracious I Dolores Hope and her hilarious husband Bob at Chicago's Challenge 11 kickoff dinner, as ; Paul Fullmer's story and the pictures on page 36 attest, but the message was delivered. 
Hope triggered this priority as much as anyone by remarking at a 1963 fieldhouse , ceremony: "I know you must be anxious to get the cattle back in here." 
photographs, taped t\vo television in­ter\'iews (one of which was shown nationally on the "Today" Show the next morning) and visited with many of her Midwestern friends. Bob's brother came in from Cleveland, for instance, to add hb best wishes on the big night. 
Father John Walsh, vice-president for public relations and development, presented a gold medallion charm bracelet and special plaque to our "Lady of the Year." In addition, a beautiful bouquet of "Dolores" roses were presented to our honored guest. Local rose growers developed the new variety to honor Mrs. Hope and the pink "Dolores" roses were featured at Chicago's Flower Show at Mc­Cormick Place in March. 
Art Conrad, who was president of 
the Club in March, was master of 
ceremonies. He saluted Mrs. Cyrus F. 
Freidheim, president of the Women's 
Auxiliar)', and Mrs. Frederick L. 
Salmon, Jr., for making the party such 
a success. Mrs. Salmon, who worked 
for months in preparation for the din­
ner^ was co-chairman with Joseph L. 
Rigali, Sr. 

Many Chicago entertainment fig­ures, including Don McNeill and Irv Kupcinet, attended the dinner to honor long-time friends. Mrs. Ed Fo.v, a fonner Chicago columnist herself, handled all press arrangements, which is a challenging job with people like the Hopes. 
Members of the Dinner Committee included: Mesdames Norman J. Barrj', Arthur L. Conrad, William" J. Corbett, Jr., Raymond W. Durst, Philip J. Faccenda, Lee J. Gary, Charles Hick­man, Donald J. Hogan, William P. Kearney, R. Emmett Kelly, Frank J. Lewis, Joseph D. Madigan, Jr., David 
A. McElvain, Don McNeill, James P. Meade, Bert L. Metzger, Otto B. Moli­dor, John D. Moynahan, Sr., Joseph 
H. Nash, Thomas E. O'Neill, John J. O'Shaughnessy, James J. O'Sullivan, Donald O'Toole, Howard V. Phalin, Frank J. Rothing, H. Gilbert Seaman, Thomas W. Se.xton, Jr., Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., Edmund A. Stephan, and William P. White, Jr. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 


Sditorial Comment 
from your Alumni Secretary 
PERSUASION AND CLUBS 
T
HE 41sT Universal Notre Dame Night is largely ended. From its 1924 beginning, it has expanded, in space and time, to a truly universal event, during which the story of Notre Dame is brought to the Club commu­nities by various persons, voices, films, and functions. 
This is the greatest mission of the Club — to he Notre Dame in its com­munity, and to tell the story of Notre Dame to communit)' non-alumni. 
We can point to substantial success in the 1694 observance. Six very pleas­ant meetings — Honolulu, San Diego, Orange County, Los Angeles, San Francisco, an d Portland — brought home vividly to me the great loyalt)', the tangible effort, and the increasingly intellectual interest, that Notre Dame commands even far from the campus. 
A new Manual for Local Alumni Clubs has been sent to your Presidents. From it, they can derive many ideas that have stimulated Clubs over the years. 
My purpose in this commentar)' is to state a basic polic)', and to docu­ment it in a most unusual fashion. 
The basic policy is that Clubs must want to organize, based on an evi­dence of membership interest in the particular community. 
I have pursued this soft sell since 1926. But I recently received a copy of a letter, through Henry Wurzer, '25, which was \vritten to Henry's father by the late John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., in 1915, when Father Cavanaugh was president of Notre Dame, and the late great Detroit alumni leader was or­ganizing the Detroit Alumni Club. Ex­cerpts from the letter are well worth all our attention: 
4 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
".. . A Notre Dame Club is abso­lutely and inevitably the fruit of senti­ment. It cannot be reasoned into c^c­istence or scourged into existence any more than a man can be reasoned or scourged into loving hb mother or his country. Sentiment is the fragrance of life which exhales from human rela­tions as perfume exhales from the flower. This is precisely why sentiment or feeling is distinct from reason. Hence I suggest that you make no attempt whatever to persuade unwilling men to join the Club. Let it be a club of six glowing enthusiasts at first if it cannot be more than sLx. But let every man 
'DOUBLE JEOPARDV 
In the Feb.-March issue (vol. 42, no. 1) on page 7 there appeared a pic­ture of Father Hcsburgh blessing a set of t^t-ins at dedication ceremonies for a statue of St. Ann, patroness of University Village. Forgetting that the new married student quarter carries on the "Fertile Acres" tradition of Vctville, its prede­cessor of the ^var years, we incorrectly identified the tivins as the children of Afr. and Mrs. Fran Miceli. Village Chaplain Rer. Roman Ladewski CSC informs us that the t\nns shown were bom shortly before the Miceli twins and are the children of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Rush. Apologies and congratulations to the parents who were the victims of this "double jeopardy." 
be there because his heart persuade: him there. .. . ^ 
". . . no student ever paid in monej for the work his Alma Mater did foi him. Whoever feels that he owes nc debt of lo)'alt)' and love to his old school was never capable of education from the beginning. 
"A Notre Dame Club is therefore the crj'stallization of the love of Notre Dame men for the old school. Let all the men of Notre Dame know of the existence of the Club but beyond that make no special effort to bring thefl in. Make the obligations imposed by the Club as few and as light as pos­sible. The world will be exacting enough and the Notre Dame Club should mean rest, and good-fellowship and kindliness for its members. Finally let Notre Dame men feel that it is their duty not only to speak a good word for the University but to live noble lives to exemplify our teachings. As a good son is the best praise of his mother so a noble Christian gentleman is the highest eulogy of his school." 
This beautiful injunction, written almost fifty years ago, is on target to­day. The world is reacting. We are reasoned and scourged into many areas of competitive activity. 
But there is a corresponding increase in the need of man for rest, for sen^ ment, for kindliness. 
This is an era of great effort for the Clubs. It is also an era of great op­portunit)'. 
Properly pursued, the world-wde, unique program of Local Alumni Clubs 
— so vital to the University and so valuable to the alumni — can progress to new achievement in the face of new challenge. 

^-i^*-r/*v»^evs iv» Q ^v^«>(*c: tUc f^/\r*v»$ft-dM«:5 »vi w.
^y\*^ii 

Alumni Secretary made the most of a gift from February's Board Reunion: an Easter trip to the 50th State in conjunction with the 41st annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night 
BIDDING ALOHA to the staff to strains of guitar music in an exotic decor of grass skirts and travel posters. Lord Jim went home to help his wife pack surfboard, sa­rongs and ukelclc for flight into sunset. 

MINNIE THE MUU-MUU, alias Mrs. Margaret Boggs, pours her boss some Hawaiian puncli in Alumni OlEcc farewell J^estiviries for wliich staffers bal<cd cakes of pineapple, cocoanut, otiier Island products. 
THE REAL THING, Jim and Marion Armstrong found, lived up to all the publicit}-. If anything, the breezes were balmier, the Icis lusher and the wahincs wavier than in the advance descriptions. 

RECEPTION COMMITTEE at left included (l.-r.): Harvey Lung '33, current president, ND Club of Hawaii; George Fang, father of Gay Pang '66; Ruth Flynn; Valentine Chun '54; unidentified hula maid; Jim Armstrong; Albert Lum '37; Mrs. Armstrong; another hula maid, also anonymous; Dick Murata '36; and Tom Flynn '33, porter, guide and UND Night chairman, who was responsible for these pictures from the Islands. 
HAWAIIAN HOSPITALITY (right and below) was extended both by adopted malahines and native alumni night and day during the Eastertide visit. East met West in a festive Notre Dame Night luau at the Pacific Club, attended also by friends  from Honolulu schools. En route Jim showed his thrifty Scot side by using the occasion for Universal NO Night lisits in Los Angeles, San Francisco and Portland. (Sec Club news.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 

The 1964 Situation at a Glance .. . By Bob Cahiil 
BRAND NEW COACH .. . SAME OLD TICKET PROBLEMS 
or Every Year's a "Challenge Too" of the Tickef 
M
AN .. . I can't believe it. Things have changed around here in 30 years. Now the President jets around from here to Rome, from here to Vienna, and to Soutli America; the Alumni Secre­tary sends me postcards from Honolulu: our new football coach wants to trade Clashmore Mike for a camel; our last football coach isn't mad at anybody: the faculty's publishing more books than Bell Telephone (tliat's tlie real reason for tliis annual piece — so I can buy a beer at the Faculty Club); the Athletic Business Manager has replaced my quill pen with a new ball-point; and the Student Senate is about to decide whether the good Fadiers in Corby may have all-night lights! But all these tilings I can get used to. The REAL change, the BIG change . . . I'VE GOT NEAV OFFICES! Those of you who follow this thing each year — both of you — will recall that I've made a rather oblique reference in the recent past to the inadequacy of the working quarters for my secretary and me. Well . . . I'm \\Titing this on a spring Saturday afternoon in paneled comfort, with sunshine and fresh air coming in the window above our head. So you younger men remember, if you just wait a little while, (gee, it was ONLY 24 years) things will work out. And while you're waiting, a frequent, well-placed jab won't hurt, either. But don't think I've mellowed, or that I'm subdued. The offices are still in the basement, and so we're tliuniping the tub mightily for tliat gorgeous new field house that Moose Krause is stumping the country for. Never mind about the huge new basketball arena; or the skating rink; or the convocation area. The plans call for a fine new Ticket Office on the GROUND FLOOR, so get us out of this basement before scuny does us in. 
But now we've had our fun, let's get on with our yearly entreaty con­cerning the problems in equitable dis­tribution of football tickets. AVith Ara Parseghian now on our side (he beat us four out of four) maybe we can start being die good guys instead of the bad guys all the time. An)nvay3 our phones are already jingling in antici­pation of the coming football season, so it's ^\'ell to read carefully the fol­lowing guide-rules. It'll save both of us a lot of headaches and correspond­ence if you'll hold still for a few more paragraphs. Thanks. . . . 
ADVANCE SALE PROCEDURE 
1.
 Contributors to the 21st Annual Alumni Fund in 1963, religious and honorary degree holders, plus the June Class of 1964, are efigible for advance sale order forms for the 1964 football season. A contribution recorded SINCE January 1, 1964, affords ticket priority for 1965, but NOT for diis current year of 1964. Many alumni send in a year-end donation which does not reach Foundation books until after the new year; and so their address plate is skipped for advance sale envelopes. Try to think back, and if this picture fits you, then tell the Alumni Office NOW to credit you for a 1963 contribution. 

2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20, closes July 15. Any order filed after tliat date, regardless of the category of order form used, will receive general use treatment. Nor is an order filed be­fore July 15 guaranteed a preferred location (see Paragraph 4). 

3.
 The "Alumni Advance Sale" or­der form carries this designation in bold type on its face for ready identi­fication. Eligible alumni should receive these just prior to June 20. If you haven't, and you're certain of your eligibility, notify the Ticket Manager at once. Our envelopes are addressed by the Alumni Association, but filled and mailed by the Ticket Office. Omis­sions are usually caused by address changes, so if your address differs from that used for this issue of the ALUM­NUS, forward that change AT ONCE 





 Office 
ROBERT CAHILL '34 Athletic Ticket Manager 
to the Alumni Office, Envelopes are addressed in May, and changes after May 10 are difficult, 
4, Advance Sale forms are limited to TWO TICKETS per game, are not transferable, will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is ex^ hausted, SEATS ARE ALLOTTEl? IN ACCORDANCE WITH DATE RECEIVED, modified only as follows: Orders arriving BEFORE opening day (June 20) are integrated at random with those received on June 20. Then, at close of business Jime 20, all appli­cations received at that point are thor­oughly shuffled, DRAWN BY LOT AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUMBER to establish tlie order df seat assignment for each game for all orders on hand opening day. Since three or four thousand orders for each of the more popular games will arrive for processing on June 20 (accounting for sbc or eight thousand tickets), ob­viously even a first-day order for such games could be on the fifty or beyond the goal line, DEPENDING ON THE LUCK OF THE DRAW. This is the 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
answer to the alumnus' question as to ^hy , although he ordered for all games on the very first day, he may receive fine seats for one game, poor ones for another (or fine seats for all; or poor seats for all). After Monogram and Season ticket (more about Season tickets below) orders are satisfied, ONLY 4,000 TICKETS ARE AVAIL­ABLE IN NOTRE DAME STA­DIUM BETWEEN THE GOAL AND ^IFTY IN THE ALUMNI SEC­TION. Hence, for the more popular games, it is readily seen that a first-day order could fare poorly; and an alum­nus waiting to file his order until July 1 or after can look for nothing but seats behind the north goal (PLEASE LOOK AT THE DIAGRAM). Games away from home usually present even more seating problems because of the ^mall allotment normally available to the visiting team in proportion to the geographical balance of our following. 
GENERAL AND BLOCK SALES 
5. General Use ticket applications are mailed annually to ALL alumni the latter part of July, prior to the August 1 opening of public sale. \Vhile it is possible that Advance Sale de­
^_scribed above could claim our entire 
^ticket supply, as of now we feel there will be public sale for all games. Gen­eral Use forms are transferable and usually valid for unlimited quantity 
NOTRE PAME 
GAT£:s4 -_^ "^-^j^rri^ 
of tickets. THE CONTRIBUTING ALUMNUS WHO HAS ALREADY USED HIS ADVANCE SALE FORM FOR TWO TICKETS MAY PLACE ADDITIONAL ORDERS VIA THE GENERAL FORM. Moreover, the General Use form is a convenient re­minder to the noncontributing alumns that tickets are available. These General forms carry no locational preference, for all such orders are filled after Ad­vance Sales purchases. 
6. Public sale opens annually on August 1. The Ticket Conunittee will be glad to send public order forms to any addressee upon request as long as tickets are available. 

ALUMNI CLUBS —NOTE 

7. Alumni Clubs planning on a block of tickets must file a request \vith the Ticket Manager BY JUNE 20. Final action on block orders may not be taken until individual sale closes July 15, and then only if sufficient tickets remain. However; a tentative reservation will be made and an Alumni Club will be given preference in case of short supply. For some games no groups EXCEPT Alumni Clubs may be con­sidered. But as to seat locations for groups, the following is positive: BLOCK ORDERS ARE FILLED FROM SEATS REMAINING AFTER ALL INDIVIDUAL OR­DERS HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED. 
 STADIUM 
-6 aATC-7 
ITCS 
Mn-IO 
Un-ll 


THIS PERMITS ONLY END ZONE SEATS, INVARIABLY. 
8. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising awards. Be­cause of the problems described in Paragraph 4, unless a Club member (or members) surrenders his Advance Sale privilege for the game desired, tickets for prizes must be of the general sale variety. 

THE SEASON TICKET SITUATION 

Each year, many alumni inquire as to whether it is to their advantage to use Alumni Advance order blanks, game by game, or buy a Season Ticket, which admits to all of the home games. The answer depends on what the alum­nus wants. If two tickets meet his needs, then he should use his Alumni Advance privilege. Although this privilege doesn't guarantee preferred location (again see Paragraph 4), still the op­portunity is there. With the Season Ticket there is no alumni preference, and only end zone seats are available. However, it is $2.50 cheaper than pur­chasing game by game. It is renewable automatically each May 1, with no quantity limit. If location is not para­mount, an alumnus may assure himself of any quantity of tickets for each game renewable each year via the Sea­son Ticket plan. Alumni might pre­sume, after looking over the stadium diagram, that the Season Ticket loca­tions sho^vn in the alumni sections (Sec­tion 8 and 9) are held by, and available to, alumni only. Not so. These Season Tickets were available to anyone prior to 1943, when the alumni section was more than adequate. Because of the re­newal feature of Season Tickets, re­moval of these patrons from alumni sections is a slow process. However, we have not sold any Season Tickets in Sections 8 and 9 SINCE 1942. The Season Ticket sale opens annually on May 1 and we shall be glad to send complete information upon request. 

AND SERIOUSLY . . . 

Over the years, the most oft-repeated comment we have heard is the one that says, essentially, "I wouldn't have yoiu- job for anything. ... " ^Vell, were it any school except Notre Dame, we probably wouldn't either, because 
only Notre Dame alumni could be as 
-atH-IS

aArc-14 
understanding and considerate as you have been to me. See you at Gate 14. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 





MAN and the f> 
A time of fr'tal leading to an



MOMENT 
efernify 

By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
I
T IS SOMEWHAT amazing how we can live next to great moments in history' and be unimpressed by them. Great moments arc happening in our time and we walk away from them. Great mo­ments of the past shout out to us, and we close our ears to them. Great people of the past walk toward us, and we turn our back on them. Perhaps this is natural. We are too involved in our own affairs: we are too busy striving for greatness in our own moments ol time to remember tlie past. 
It has been well said that "these are the times that try men's souls." These words, tliat come out of the past, are true even in the present. It will always be so. Ever)' age is a difficult age. Greatness in any age is made by tlic people who refuse to be held back. The man and the moment. This greatness we refer to does not have to be on a national basis or because of publicity. Few people of tlie millions who live be­come heroes or heroines as far as the world is concerned. Yet we are all called to greatness. That is why the Church gives us Saints from every walk of life for everj' day of the year. The Church points to them and saj-s, "They have made it. So can you." Each one of us, in a sense, is a Miniver Cheevy, a child of scorn regretting the day that he was bom. Perhaps, like Cheevj', we have reason to regret. The fact is, how­ever, that each of us, in this our day, is called to greatness. We might not get too inspired by reading or hearing about the Saints. Many of us feel tliat the Saints have too much of a head start on us. AVe feel tliat we can never do what tliey have done so there is no use tr)'ing. AVe know we must try but we don't really shift into high gear. It is much too comfortable to go along at an easy pace. It is not only more com­fortable, it is more scenic, more casual. In our own defense we say "it is more natural." 
The founding of Notre Dame took 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 

great heroism on tlie part of Father Sorin and tlie seven Brothers of Holy Cross. To run a school takes great heroism, not only for the administration but for the faculty and staff. Going to school should be heroic on a student's part except most students do not realize it. They take school for granted. It is sometliing that a lad must do if he expects to be someone, to be accepted. We were mucli the same way when we went to school. We do not admit it, but deep down it is true. Now tliat we are away from school and have that wonderful view called maturity, we know we would do much better if we had it to do all over again. This is hindsight. Our job now is to make Notre Dame—and it is truly your school—the best school in tlie world. Notre Dame needs you because you are Notre Dame. 
The life you live should be heroic. This means you must strive every day to be tlie best you can be from morn­ing to night. This is no small job. Notre Dame expects the best from you because she hoped you had learned, not just how to make a living, but how to live. Greatness on your part gives greatness and luster to Notre Dame. The greater Notre Dame becomes, the greater yoi^ are because you are her son. 
Since you are a true son of Notre Dame it is fitting that you should know all you can about its history, its place on this planet, and the people of the past who worked so hard to give us what we have today. There is so much to be said that it is difficult to know just where to begin. Beg^ we must. And as we turn the pages and look at the past it is well to keep in mind that the people who pushed back the forest^ are people much like ourselves. There is much to be learned from them. They lived in a time that tried their souls. We live in a time that tries our souls. You are the man and this is the mo­ment. And all of it leads to etemit)'. 
I 

SAINT OR DEVIL 
"An old Brother at Notre Dame, a wise and wonderful man, made diis observation about the school: 'This place will make a saint or a devil out of you.' And he spoke truly because, if you are not a better man after four years here, you will be a worse, and very likely, a far worse man. Why? Because your responsibility increases in proportion to the graces you reject; and the graces offered you here are almost infinite. You have to be on the alert to dodge them!" 
from the Religious Bulletin (February 19, 1957) 
Come for a day or a week, but don't miss the first Annual 


KNUTE ROCKNE FESTIVAL 
July 5-7,1964, at Cedar Point, Sandusky, Ohio 
N
OTRE DAME families will gather in memory of Knute Rockne on the 30th anniversary of his graduation the week of July 5 at Cedar Point, a resort on Lake Erie near Sandusky, O., which can be described as a combination of Disney­land, Palm Beach, Atlantic City and the New York World's Fair. It boasts "the world's finest beach, a fabulous funway of nearly 100 attractions, a 1,000-boat marina and the 1,000-room Hotel Breakers (write, phone or wire for rates and reservations)." It was the summer residence of many ND athletes and the birthplace of Gus Dorais' historic forward pass. The Rockne Festival, culminating on July 7, will feature a special fireworks display on July 6. Come for a day's picnic or a week's vacation. 
KNUTE ROCKNE was among the legion of Notre Dame men, including the Four Horsemen and the legendary Miller family, who trained on summer jobs as lifeguards at Cedar Point. 

SKYRIDE ON THE MIDWAY is only one of dozens of attractions which make Cedar Point the largest amusement park in the Midwest and truly a "Disneyland East" in variety. Rides include: a monorail, a paddle-wheel steamer and vintage auto rides; the Cedar Point & Lake Erie RR, a narrow-gauge line with two trains; the Blue Streak, a new 80-foot, $200,000 roller coaster; the Millrace Splash, Calypso and many more. 
BEACH ON LAKE ERIE (right), one of the largest and sandiest in the US, long boasted a plaque commemorating develop­ment of the Rockne-Dorais forward pass which will be restored by the Cleveland ND Club. Boat marina. Midwest's biggest, re­-rently added 100 berths to dock facilities. 
BREAKERS HOTEL is a huge, rambling Colonial structure with 1,000 rooms. Family rates and reservations are avail­able on request. Hotel is convenient to park, beach, marina, etc. 
BEACH PATROL and Breakers were united by one of the century's great ro­mances when lifeguard K. K. Rockne met waitress Bonnie Skiles at Cedar Point. 
MRS. ROCKNE (circled, right) was one of many college girls employed as wait­resses in the dining rooms of Cedar Point circa 1913. A 1910 booklet describes the Lake Erie resort as "Queen of American Watering Places." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 

^amlttft TRAt)iTiON op QRGAT leACbiNQ 
SOME RECENT EMERITI CecH E. Birder, Herbert J. Bolt, Ernest 
H. Brand!, Paul Byrne, Jose Corona, Gilbert Coty, Elias Denissoff, Paul I. Fenlon, Rev. Peter P. Forrestail C.S.C., John T. Frederick, Msgr. Philip Hughes, Frank Kelly, Steponas Kolupaila, T. F. Konop, Leo F. Kuntz, Paul M. Nastu­coff, Elton Richter, Wm. Roemer, Vita. 
D. RoUison, Raymond J. Schubmehl, K. 
B. Smith, Geoi^e Wack, Rev. Leo R. Ward CS.C, Carl Wilcos, and James 
A. Withey. 

FACULTY PROMOTIONS—1964 
PROFESSORS Cornelius P. Brow-ne —Physics George B. Craig .Biology Rev. Joseph N. Gan-in CS.C. Classics John E. Hardy - English Francis M. Kobayashi 
Engineering Science James P. Kohn Chemical Engineering Walter C. Miller Physics John T. Noonan Law Ray M. Powell Accountancy 
ASSOCIATE PROFESSORS Charles W. AUen Metallurgical Engineering Hari-ey A. Bender ^Biology Rudolph S. Bottei Chemistry Walter R. Davis English Paul C. DeCelles Physics Arthur R. Evans, Jr.-Modem Languages Kenneth Feathcrstone Architecture James M. Fremgen Accountancy Emerson G. Funk Physics Rev. Arthur S. Harvey CS.C Communication Arts Emil T. Hofman Chemistry Leonard J. Kazmicr Business Organization & IVIanagcment Francis D. Lazenby Classics Robert J. Lord! English Rev. Eman McMuUin Philosophy Rev. Edward D. O'Connor CS.C .Theology Rev. Stanley J. Parry CS.C Government & International Studies James D. StashelT Mathematics 
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS 

Richard P. Francis Philosophy John Howett Art Rev. Leon J. Mertensotto CS.C. 
Theology Konstantin Alilonadis Art Rev. James L.Shilts CS.C Physics 
REQUIESCANT IN PACE 

Bernard Barth, Jose Caparo, John Cooney, >Villiam Dooley, Kenneth Doty, Wm. Downey, Waldemar Gurian, F. H. IngcrsoU, Charles Mathes, I. Mestrovic, Michael Mozer, Frederick Myers, John Nicholson, Ronald O'Neill, Daniel O'Grady, E. J. Payton, Raymond Pence, Donald Plunkett, Ronald Rich, Philip RHey, Robert Riordan, Frank Skeeler, John Treacy, Edward G. \Iahin, and Thomas Owen. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
T
HE THEME for Universal Notre Dame Night 1964 was "E-xtending the Tradition of Great Teaching." It is also the theme of the Challenge II Program of the Notre Dame Foundation, a lion's share of the proceeds from which will go to faculty, development and student aid. 
But what does the phrase mean? To some students and recent alumni it would be news, to judge from their attitude, that any such tradition exists at Notre Dame to be extended. 
Without going into the University's past — through such great names as Nieuwland, Zahm, Kirsch, Green, Chesterton, Philips, etc. — is it possible to discover some signs of such a tradition among our present-day faculty? 
One indication of a teaching tradition would be dedication, as demonstrated by long service to the same institution. Another sign, perhaps adding greatness to the tradition, would be a broad and varied educational background among these same faculty members who have proved their devotion. 
A year or two ago a count was made of all the faculty listed in the general bulletin of the University who have taught for 25 years or more, serving at least two generations of Notre Dame men. Approximately 70 names were listed. Some of tiiese men have retired by now, but others have replaced them who have attained a quarter-century of service. 
With no claim to accuracy or completeness, we would like to list the results of that recent survey. Each entry lists name, rank, department, year or joining the University (in paren­theses) and academic credentials: 
Robert L. Anthony, Ptof., Physics (1937); .A.B., Miami U. '33; Ph.D., Yale '36. 
Lawrence H. Baldinger, Prof., Chemistrj- (1933); Ph.C, Western Reserve U. '28; B.S., ibid, '29; U.N.D., (M.S.) '31; Ph.D., ibid. '33. 
Paul C. Bartholomew, Prof., Political Science (1931); .VB., U.N.D. '29, A.M., ibid. '31; Ph.D., U. Kentucky '38. 
Wesley C. Bender, Prof., Marketing Management (1931); A.B., ComeU U. '29; .A.M., U. of Pittsburgh '31. 
Rev. Henry Bolger C.S.C, Assoc Prof., Physics (1929-'33, 1936); A.B., U.N.D. '24; A.M., Catholic U. of America '29. 
.'Andrew J. Boyle, Prof., Chemistry (1931); B.S., U.N.D. '28; M.S., ibid. '29: Ph.D., ibid. '31. 
Rev. Thomas James Brennan CS.C, Prof., Philosophy (1931); A.B., 
U.N.D. '23; Ph.D., Gregorian U. '25; S.T.D., .Angelico Col­lege '29. 
Frank N. M. Brown, Prof., Aeronautical Engineering (1935); 
B.S.E. Aero. Eng., U. of Mich. '28; M.S.E., ibid. '32. 
Rev. Charles M. Carey CS.C, Assoc. Prof., Theology (1937); A.B., U.N.D. '31; A.M., ibid. '37. 
Edward A. Coomes, Prof., Physics (1938); B.S. in E.E., U.N.D. '31; M.S., ibid. '33; Sc.D., Mass. Institute of Technology '38. 
James A. Corbctt, Prof., History (1935); A.B., Georgetoivn U. '29; ArchiN-ist-Paleographe, Ecole des Clrartes, '35. 

List of Seventy Faculty Members with Twenty-Five Years or More of Service Attests to a Heritage to be Extended 
Bro. Columba Curran C.S.C, Prof., Chemistry (1937); B.S., U.N.D., '33; M.S., ibid. '35; Ph.D., ibid. '37. 
James Dincolo, Prof., Accountancy (1937); B.B.A., Boston U. '30; M.C.S., ibid. '38; C.P.A., State of Indiana '41. 
LeClair H. Eells, Prof., Finance and Business Economics (1930);  A.B., Iowa State '26; M.B.A., Harvard '28. 
C. Robert Egry, Prof., Industrial Engineering (1939); B.S.M.E., Purdue U. '12; M.E., ibid. '36. 
Robert S. Eikenberr>', .Assoc. Prof., Aeronautical Engineering (1938); A.B., Swarthmore '34; M.S.E., U. of Michigan '36. 
Norbert A. Engels, Prof., English (1927); Mus. B., UJ^.D. '26: A.M., ibid., '28. 
Christopher J. Pagan, Assoc. Prof., Economics (1935; B.S., Providence College '28; AM., Catholic U. of .America '29. 
Bernard B. Finnan, Assoc. Prof., Accountancy (1937: B.S., Middle­d bur>- College '31; M.B.A., N.Y.U. '37; C.P.A., State of Indi­ana '45. 
John J. Fitzgerald, Assoc. Prof., Philosophy (1937); .*\.B., Boston College '33; Ph.B., U. of Louvain '34; Ph.L., ibid. '36; Ph.D., ibid. '37. 
Matthew A. Fitzsimons, Prof., History (1937); A.B., Columbia U. '34; B.A., O.xford U. '37; A.M., Columbia U. '39; Ph.D., 
U. of Chicago '47. 
Rev. Joseph Can-in C.S.C, Assoc Prof., Latin (1938); .A.B., 
U.N.D. '29; A.M., Catholic U. of America '34; Ph.D., ibid. '46. 
Rev. Henry Glueckert C.S.C, Prof., Latin (1923); A.B., U.N.D. '16. 
Rev. Cornelius Hagerty C.S.C, Prof., Theology (1911); A.B., # U.N.D. '06; Ph.D., Catholic U. of America '11. 
William H. Hamill, Prof., Chemistry (1938); B.S.. U.N.D. '30; M.S., ibid. '31; Ph.D., Columbia U. '36. 
Louis L. Hasley, Prof., English (1931); A.B., U.N.D. '30; A.M., ibid. '31. 
George F. Hennion, Prof., Chemistry (1935); B.S. in Ch.E., 
U.N.D. '32; M.S., ibid. '33; Ph.D., ibid. '35. 
Ferdinand A. Hermens, Prof., Political Science (1938); Diploma in Economics, U. of Bonn '28; Ph.D., ibid. '30. 
Henr>- D. Hinton, Prof., Chemistry (1928); B.S. in Chem., 111. . ^ College '19; M.S., U. of Chicago '26; Ph.D., U.N.D. '30. 
Rev. Edward Keller, Assoc. Prof., Economics (1933); A.B., St. Edward's U. '27. 
Frank Kelly, Prof., Speech (1925); Leland Powers School '25. 
Ra>Tnond P. Kent, Prof., Finance and Business Economics (1938); B.S., U. of Pittsburgh '31; A.M., ibid. '34; Ph.D., ibid. '38. 
Clarence J. Kline, Prof., Mathematics (1930); C.E., U.N.D. '21. 
Bernard J. Kohlbrcnner, Prof., Education (1929); A.B., Syracuse 
U. '27; A.M., ibid. 1928; Ed.D., Harvard U. '42. 
Walter Langford, Prof., Modem Language (1931); A.B., U.N.D. ~ '30; M.M.L., Universidad Nacional de Mexico City '37. 
Rev. Bernard McAvoy C.S.C, Assoc. Prof., Philosophy (1936); A.B., U.N.D. '29; A.M., U. of Toronto '36. 
Rev. Thomas McAvoy C.S.C. Prof., History, U. Archivist (1933­'35, 1938); A.B., U.N.D. '25; A.M., ibid. '30; Ph.D., Columbia U. '40. 
James McCarthy, Prof., Civil Engineering (1939); B.S., Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology '28. 
Patrick McCusker, Prof., Chemistry (1937); A.B., Niagara U. '26; M.S., U.N.D. '30; Ph.D., ibid. '37. 
Harry J. McLellan, Assoc. Prof., Mechanical Engineering (1921); M.E., U.N.D. '21. 
Rev. W. M. McNamara C.S.C, Prof., History (1922); A.B., UJ*J>. 
•17; A.M., Catholic U. '22; Ph.D., ibid. '31. Francis Moran, Prof., English (1927). A.B., U.N.D. "27; A.M., 
ibid. '30. Rev. R. W. Murray C.S.C, Prof., Sociology (1926); LX3., 
U.N.D. '18; Ph.D., Catholic U. '26. Dominic Napolitano, Assoc. Prof., Physical Education (1933); 
B.S.
 in P.E., U.N.D. '32; A.M., ibid. '33. Willis Nutting, Assoc. Prof., General Program (1936); B.A., State 

U.
 of Iowa '21; B.A., O.xford U. '23; B.Litt., ibid. '24; Ph.D., State U. of Iowa '33. Francis O'Malley, Prof., English (1933); A.B., U.N.D. '32; A.M., ibid. '33. Daniel Pedtke, Assoc. Prof., Music (1936); B.Mus., DePauI U. '35. Deverc Plunkett, Assoc. Prof., History (1930); A.B., U.N.D. '30; 


A.M., ibid. '36. Rev. Louis Putz C.S.C, Assoc. Prof., Theology (1939); A3. , 
U.N.D. '32; S.T.B., Institut Catholiquc, France '36. 
Edward Quinn, Assoc. Prof., Education (1937); A.B., UJST-D. '28; A.M., ibid. '36. 
Rufus Ranch, Prof., English (1927); .'V.B., Loras College '24; A.M., State U. of lo^va '25. 
George E. Rohrbach, Prof., Mechanical Engineering (1931); B.S. in M.E., U.N.D. '25. 
William RoUison, Prof., Law (1930); LL.B., Ind. U. '21; A.B., ibid. '25; LL.M., Harvard U. '30. 
Stephen Ronay, Prof., English (1928); A.B., UJSI.D. '27; A.M., ibid. '31; Ph.D., U. of Chicago '48. 
John A. Scannell, Prof., Physical Education (1929); B.S., East Stroudsburg State '27; A.M., N.Y.U. '29; Ed.D., Ind. U. '40. 
Rev. Albert Schlitzer C.S.C, Prof., Theology (1936); PhX)., Gregorian U., Rome '31; S.T.D., ibid. '36. 
Raymond Schubmehl, Prof., Engineering Science (1921); M.E., U.N.D. '21; M.S., ibid. '22. 
Stanley Sessler, Prof., Art (1928); Diploma, Mass. School of Art '27; Royal Society of Arts, London, England '51; Fellow, Inter­national Institute of Arts & Letters, Germany '52. 
Rev. Ed^vard Shea C.S.C, Assist. Prof., Modem Languages (1938); A.B., U.N.D. '31; Ph.D., Harvard U. '48. 
John H. Shcehan, Assist. Prof., Economics (1938); AB., UJM.D. '37; A.M., ibid. '38. 
Walter L. Shilts, Prof., Civil Engineering (1922); C.E., U.NJJ. '22; M.S., ibid. '24. 
Knowles Smith, Prof., Geology (1908); B.S., Michigan College of Mining and Technology '01; E.M., ibid. '02; Ph.D., U.N.D. '18. 
.Andrew T. Smithberger, Prof., English (1925); A.B., Ohio U. '25; A.M., UJ^.D. '27. 
Lawrence Stauder, .Assoc. Prof., Electrical Engineering (1937); B.S. in E.E., U.N.D. '29; M.S. in E.E., Mass. Institute of Tech. '31. 
Thomas Stritch, Prof., Communication Arts (1935); A.B., UJJ.D. '34; A.M., ibid. '35. 
Richard Sulliran, Prof., English (1936); A.B., UJJJ). '30. 
John P. Turley, Prof., Latin (1931); A.B., College of St Thomas '30; A.M., U. Minnesota '31. 
Rev. Leo Ward C.S.C, Prof.. PhUosophy (1928); A.B., U.NJ5. '23; Ph.M., Catholic U. of America '27; PhJ)., ibid. '29. 
Ernest Wilhelm, Assoc. Prof., Chemical Engineering (1938); B.S. in Ch.E.. UJSI.D. '27; M.S., ibid. '28; Ph.D., ibid. '30. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 11 

BY WARREN C. STEPHENS Secrefary 
$mi 
Notre Dame Class of 1964 




the Stud^^ 

HIGHLIGHTS OF THE SPRING SEMESTER 
This is the last report by Secretary Clay Stephens on the 1963-64 campus year. Hereafter his columns will concern the Class of '64 in the "back of the book." 
T
HE HAPPINESS of Eastcr seems still to abound everj-where on the Notre Dame campus. Undoubtedly tlie light Indiana weather, a successful Mardi Gras, an early Easter vacation, the recent spectacular Mock Conven­tion, spring football and the end of Lent are some of the major reasons why a spirit of optimism and eagerness pervades student life. 
Spring is here and the myriad activi­ties that go with it. Each class is oc­cupied with its own particular inter­ests apart from campus-wide attractions. For example, seniors are absorbed with plans for business and professional schools, future employment, the Senior Ball and graduation. However, the truly significant spring activities involve stu­dents as a whole, and tlie enthusiasm connected with student life is amazing. Since my last article, much has hap­pened that is noteworthy. 
One of the highlights of Februar\' was the Washington Day exercises with the presentation of the annual Patri­otism Award to this year's recipient. Lieutenant Col. John H. Glenn. The Patriot of the Year is elected by votes 
of all Notre Dame seniors, and all or­
ganizational tasks were handled by a 
senior class committee. The turnout to 
see and hear Colonel Glenn was thun­
derous. The original purpose of the 
AVashington Day exercises was to 
strengdien tlie ideals of true patriotism 
in the Notre Dame student. 
The 1964 Mock Convention on the campus ended March 5 and set records for attendance, interest and boundless enthusiasm. After seven ballots the Notre Dame and St. Mary's college dele­gates nominated Henry Cabot Lodge as the G.O.P. presidential hopeful and Governor Mark Hatfield of Oregon as his vice-president. High points of the convention were talks by Republican National Chairman William Miller (a 1935 graduate of Notre Dame), Sen­ator Leverett Saltonstall of Massachu­setts and Congressman Donald Bruce of Indiana. 
Eight Notre Dame seniors have re­ceived Woodrow Wilson fellowships for their first year of graduate study next fall. The fellows with their majors are: Ralph C. Martin, philosophy; Michael McLintock, English; Frank D. 
Attention Alumni Parents 
The next issue will contain a report on the current admissions picture at Notre Dame by Rev. Joseph Hoffman CSC, acting director of admissions. 
The report tvill contain an up-to-date profile of the freshman class and information on high-school grades, test scores and other requirements for boys who intend to matriculate at the University. 
Look for "What it Takes" by Father Hoffman in the August-September issue (Vol. 42, No. 4) of the Alumnus. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
McConnell, English; Clark R. Mc-
Granery, matliematics; Michael W. 
Messmer, history; Craig M. Simpson, 
history; Edward P. Ward, poUtical 
science; and Charles J. Day, philos­
ophy. In addition a good number of 
seniors were awarded Danfortli Foun# 
dation fellowships and National Science 
Foundation fellowships. 

The Student Honor System Com­
mittee, with the support of Fr. Hes-
burgh and members of the Administra­
tion, has proposed a plan that will 
place the undergraduate student body 
of the University under an academic 
honor system covering all aspects of 
academic integrity. The primary use of 

an honor system would be during ex­
aminations when the instructor wil" 
leave the room trusting the integrity 
and maturity of his students. This plan 
was submitted as a referendum, and a 
significant majority will be needed for 
its enactment. 

The 1964 Bengal Bouts under the guidance of Dominic Napolitano were their usual huge success this year. At Notre Dame, the Bengal Bouts are traditionally the most important intra^ university athletic event of the year. Each class of boxers exhibited skills totally unexpected in amateurs, and the excitement which characterizes the Bouts was present as always. Dan Manion, senior from South Bend fight­ing in the 177 lb. class, was named the Bengal Bouts' outstanding boxer. 
From these few events, some of what has been happening in student activi­ties can be seen. The events scheduledP for April and May completely eclipse the past in student interest. The dedi­cation of the new Memorial Library, campus elections, the alumni-varsity football game, class proms, the Colle­giate Jazz Festival, spring intramural sports. Lake Michigan and final ex­aminations — all are contributing to the acute euphoria that characterizes the second semester, 1964. 





HOTRE DAME CLASS REUNION WEEKEND 
JUNE 12-13-14, 1964 
dFRIDAY, JUNE 12 
GENERAL REGISTRATION — Law Building 
One fee, $25, will be collected at registration which will cover all general expenses and, except for those notified otherwise. Class expenses. Only those with a ticket and insignia will be admitted to residence halls, bars, etc. 

CLASS REGISTRATION AND ROOM 
Registration will be in the halls as listed: 

HEADQUARTERS: 
Class of 1914 Alumni Hall* Class of 1919 Alumni Hall* Class of 1924 Alumni Hall* Class of 1929 Lyons Hall** 
JClass of 1934 Howard Hall** Class of 1939 Morrissey Hall** Class of 1944 Dillon Hall* Class of 1949 Alumni Hall* Class of 1954 Dillon Hall* Class of 1959 Morrissey Hall** 
'Please park cars neor the Law School. No parking permitted on the road behind halls. 
•'Parking space adjacent to the halls or behind the University Bookstore. 
9 

CLASS EVENTS: 
Scheduled on Friday Nigfif, 7 p.m. 
(Tentative Locations) 

Golden Jubilee Class of 1914, Traditions Dinner, Golfer's Lounge, Morris Inn 1919 Closs Dinner, Golfer's Lounge, Morris Inn 
^924 Class Dinner, Mahogany Room, Morris Inn 1929 Class Dinner, Private Dining Room, Morris Inn 1934 Class Dinner, South Bend Country Club 
(Buses leove from the Circle) Silver Jubilee Class of 1939, Class Dinner at the North Dining Hall 1944 Class Buffet, Alumni-Dillon Court 1949 Class Dinner, North Dining Hall 1954 Class Dinner, South Dining Hall 1959 Class Dinner, South Dining Hall 

V^eeiirend GOLF TOURNAMENT begins FRIDAY 


SPECIAL MONOGRAM GOLF DAY 
(Monogram Club Only) Thursday, June 11 
Monogram Club Headquarters: ALUMNI HAIL Monogram Club DINNER and ANNUAL MEETING 
6:30 p.m. Thursday, Morris Inn 

FRIDAY BUS TOURS OF CAMPUS 
From Circle at 2, 3 and 4 p.m. 



SATURDAY, JUNE 13 
CLASS MASSES — Hall Chapels 
(1924 at Corby Hall) 
CLASS PICTURES —Old Ubrary 
(1939 at Main Building) 
BUS TOURS OF CAMPUS —From Cirtle 
10:30 (Silver Jubilee),11:30 a.m.; 1, 2 and 3 p.m. 
GOLF TOURNAMENT ^ All Day 
PRESIDENrS LUNCHEON, 25-Yr. Class, No. Dining Hall 1929 Engineers and 1924 Class, Morris Inn BOX LUNCHES at hall bars for other Classes 

COLLEGE OPEN HOUSES —3 p.m. 
Arts & Letters—O'Shaughnessy Art Gallery Business Administration—World Foyer, Hurley Foreign 
Commerce BIdg. Engineering—Lobby, Cushing Engineering BIdg. Science — Computer-Math and Radiation Research 
Centers 


ALUMNI LIBRARY APPRECIATION PROGRAM —4 p.iii. 
South Entrance, New Memorial Library 
Featuring: Pother Hesburgb, N.D. Piesiclent 
Alumni Book Displays, Library Open House, etc. 
ANNUAL ALUMNI BANQUET — 6 p.m. North Dining Hall—"New Faces of 1964: Campus, Coaching, Continuing Education" 

SUNDAY, JUNE 14 ANNUAL ALUMNI MASS—10 0.111. 
Sacred Heart Church—"Religion and the N.D. Man" Rev. Lloyd Teske, C.S.C., University Chaplain 
Notre Dame Alumnus. June-July, 1964 13 


The Quiet Wan Letters of Captain Jerry Shank^ 
On March 24, 1964, Capt. Edwin Gerald 

Shank Jr. USAF, American "advisor" on a 
strafing mission in Vietnam, was shot down 
and killed along with his Vietnamese stu­
dent pilot in a propeller-drivcn T-28 trainer 
converted to a fighter-bomber. His body 
was returned to Winamac. Ind., for burial 
at St. Peter's Church with full militar>' 
honors. Buried with him was the Notre 
Dame ring he was wearing when he 
crashed, received at graduation as an 
architect in 1959, which helped to identify 
him. His family also attended a Solemn 
Military Requiem Mass .\pril 7 in Sacred 
Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus 
along with several hundred uniformed mem­
bers of the Army, Na\y and Air Force 
ROTC. 
Jerry Shank had turned down an Air Force Academy appointment in order to finish at Notre Dame, but he had hoped to be a career pilot — perhaps even an astronaut. He had completed more than 80 missions and won three Air Medals at the time of his death. His widow Connie was left with four children: Bart, 5; Ann. 4; Susan, 2; and Patricia now four months, whom Jerr>' had never seen. After the funeral she released to the press her hus­band's letters irom Soc Trang airfield on the Mekong Delta. Filled with a father's loneliness and concern for his family, the letters also crackled with patriotism and frustration, pride and bitterness at the plight of 15,000 American "advisors" forgotten by their fellow citizens in Vietnam's "quiet war.*' Excerpted in newspapers across the country, quoted in Life magazine and the Congressional Record, the letters aroused the conscience of the nation. The death of Jerry Shank '59 has perhaps done more to focus American involvement in South­east Asia than anything else since the death of Dr. Tom Dooley '48 in 1961. The letters are reprinted here in the most complete selection to date: 
14 NOV 63—Dear Connie and Kids: Up to 12 missions now. AH checked out for nitc work and I'm second up for alert tonitc Had another 3 hr. fit. this morning. Wc escorted choppers back and forth to a landing zone »*"}icrc they put troops in the field. Then wc w-cnt over and struck some suspicious areas. 
We're using equipment and bombs from WW II and it's not too reliable. Tlierc arc only about 6 maintenance men, 6 armament men and 11 pilots down here. We 23 run the whole T-28 war in Mekong Delta. This wiU give you some idea of Uncle Sam's part in the war. I goofed on my third mission out of here. I told you wc had a real short runway. One approach is over trees and bushes and a couple of barbrd wire fences. There is only one barbed wire fence now. I brought about 20 ft. of fence home with me. 
23 NOV 63—Been real busy with the armament job. Got all kinds of problems — can't get parts or books or charts describing the different bombs and sj'stcms. The Air Force hasn't used any of this equipment since Korea, and everv'body seems to have lost the books. Main problem is personnel 
— no good officers or XCOs over here that really know their business. Most of them are out of S.AC and have dealt only with nuclear weapons. This doesn't apply over here. What we need is someone from "WW II. Some days it's like beating your head against a brick wall. 
27 NOV 63—Happy TJianksgiving — no difTcrent 
here than any other day. You know damn well 
where I'd like to be today. 
First of all, woke up Saturday to the news of Kennedy's assassination. Sucli a terrible thing ~ the world is full of animals. Sunday all hell broke loose witli the Victcong. Wc had a big airborne operation against them •— both clioppers and para­chutes. I'm up to 20 missions now and am real confident in m^'self. I feel like a veteran. I think I am older. 
Although this is called a dirty little w*ar and is far from the shores of the old US.\, it's a big mean war. Wc arc getting beat. ^Vc are un­dermanned and undcrgunned. Tlic US may say thc>- are in this^ but they don't know. If the US would really put combat people in here, we could win and win fast. 
4 DEC 63—It's about 2130 — I guess, broke my watch. But I'll get it fixed next time into Saigon. Got my toe rot healed up and also my spider bite. I'm fully operational now. 
I have debated for a week and a half noiv over telling you about Black Sunday — Nov. 24, 1963. I don't know if President Kennedy's death trig­gered it or it was a strong Victcong showing against the new military government of Vietnam. I'm going to tell you, and if you don't want to hear about these things again, well say so. You do have a right to know. An>i*'ay, here Is what I saw. 
At approximately 0130 Sunday two T-28s took off to defend a fort under attack. It was routine and Ihcy landed later at Bien Hoa. At 0430 Frank Gcrski and I took off after another fort under attack. We saw the battle going on down there and proceeded to drop our ordnance. Also air­borne u-as a Vietnam air force reconnaissance plane. Our airborne Interpreter was ver>* poor. The first target he said to hit was an area about the size of your dad's farm. Well, this is much 
too large a target but It's all we had. After the 
first 2 bombs, we spotted the bad guys shooting 
at us. So Frank directed me In and I burned 
them with 500 lbs. of napalm. I did this twice, 
then I spotted another shooting at mc so I told 
Frank to follow me In and shoot where I shot. 
Well, just as I had them In my gun sights my 
damn guns jammed. Frank got the general idea 
and raked them good. By now dawn had broken, 
and wc were out of goodies and gas. so we came 
home, landing at around 0700. 
We then got word that a big airlift of ARVN was taking place and our H-2Is from Soc Trang were going to do the lifting. Four of our birds went out — 2 to escort the choppers and 2 t( ^ soften up the landing zone. The came home 2 hrs. later — said it «as pretty hot. 2 more birds took off to do the same thing for the second wave of choppers. IJ4 hours later they came home screaming battle damage. Just after the hurt birds landed, 2 others took olT — almost. I watched the lead plane go off and waited for number two. He didn't make it. His engine quit just at takeoff and since the runway Is short he didn't have room to stop. Ttie pilot did a great job but hit a hidden hole and tore a gear off the bird. No one hurt at all — a real good job. I looked back at the 2 that just landed and saw one sitting cockeyed on the runway. Tlicy received 26 hits from ground fire. The Victcong had downed aA. chopper and they went In to help and got hit themselves, but the chopper crew ^v-as saved. We started the day with only 6 airplanes and 3 of them arc now out of the w*ar. One In a ditch, one with no brakes and 17 hits, and one with no gas and 9 hits. The remaining half of our outfit is winging its way to the battle zone. Now we're down to 2 airplanes out of 6 and it's my turn. Wc proceed down, but we are loaded for bear — none of this little stuff — we have 500-Ib. block­busting bombs. Wc arc joined by a replacement aircraft from Bien Hoa so now our mighty force Is up to three birds. We were mad at the enemy and all three of us bombed like no one ever bombed before — wc literally obliterated 600 
acres of Vietcong woods and then came home. 
The Vietcong hurt us bad. What they had done was pull into this little village, committed thel ^ usual atrocities, then pulled out. HeadquartersV-' thought tlicy would teach this little group of Vict­cong a lesson. But the crafty little bastards with­drew from the town into foxholes and bunkers and hiding places they had secretly been building all week. So when the first wave of troops went in — thinking It was just a routine chase of Victcong 
— they soon ran against the Victcong wall. Wc were lucky. No T-28 pilot received so much as a hangnail. We've got a tremendous spirit and we're all skilled — so you can be proud of us. I am. Tlicre arc no heroes over here, but there arc a lot of fine men. America better not let us ] down. We've either got to get In all the way or | get out. If wc get out, the Victcong will be in !­
Saigon the next day. f I wouldn't read this to the kids. They mightf)/ 
I • K­
r
r^ 
.•,-• 
i'­
J;­
•j^. 
'i ' 
i'- -; 
•• '. 
•'\'' f­'U
i> 

i' ­
• . •••:' 


m\ V. 
i ­
? ^ 
> ] 

' MIUTARY REQUIEM Mass for Jerry Shank at Sacred Heart Church was attended bj hb familr and all Notre Dame ROTC units. 
J4 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
CAPT. E. GERALD SHANK JR. '59 »He Aroused the Conscience of a Nation. 
# 
not understand. You can understand now why I have a duty over here, why it*s a serious duty and no one could possibly shirk it. I believe in our cause — it's just. We must win, 
14 DEC 63—^TIic war is quiet because the Vict­con? arc quiet. The funny thing is, I know, ever\'one knows where some Victcong concentra­tions are, but they won't let us hit until the Victcong start something. The Victcong sure give thcJii a rough time. Tlicy arc kind of a ^{afia. They terrorize and sell "insurance" so that the people will not be harmed again. 
21 DEC 63—Talked to a guy today — his wife had a baby at 7:30 Saigon time on the 19th and he heard about it today about 0900 — approx. 48 hrs. later. I still haven't found out how you'll 

^;e t hold of me. I don*t even know where I'll be. 1*11 bet you are miserable by now. God, how* I wish J could help you. I worry about the de­livery — just know that I'm with you, only I can't hold your hand. Have strength, Hon. 
We got a briefing today on the total result of that operation on 24 November. Tlie airpower got credit for 150-200 kills. No one can be sure, for the Victcong carr>' off their dead and wounded. An>"%vay, there were still a lot of pieces left, and this is how wc got the estimate. 
No Army (Vietnamese or US) troops engaged the enemy at all. It was strictly Air Force against ground. Tlic Army was there with 1,500 troops, but the leaders kinda didn't want to fight. After wc had hurt them so bad the Anny let them get 

J
[»way. .Anyway there were approx 700 Victcong dug in with tlircc 50 cal antiaircraft guns and three 30 cal antiaircraft guns, plus many hundred with machine guns. Tliey were waiting for us. But wc hurt them even though we lost. We lost be­cause we had them trapped and they got away. Pretty quiet here tonite. Christmas is near, and nobody wants it to come, really. 
23 DEC 63—Opened Chrbtmas presents tonight. Can't put them in my suitcase, so I opened them. They meant a lot. It's something for you instead of against you —- love instead of hate and killing. Flew another mission today. So far I have 55 kills credited to nic and one 30 cal gun. I guess I'm a true killer. I have no sympathy, and I'm good. 
"^pCo sense being a gentleman about it, because it's not appreciated, I'm not proud of killing. But I am proud of my skill. It is necessary- in this job. I'm telling you facts so you'll know what I do. You have to know. 
I talked to Major Lcngficld tonite. I said, "I'm going to put in leave papers for February- to sec my wife and our new-born baby. Will you approve it?" He said, *'Ycs, but it will not be approved by headquarters; I can guarantee that." I'm going to put it in anyway. All they can do is say no.. . . 
30 DEC 63—Missed Mass yesterday — many things happened. I'm up to 38 missions now —- I've been pretty busy. 
Well, here goes. I got shot down yesterday. Wc \vcrc escorting a C-123 and I picked up 3 slugs in- my airplane. I made it to a field called Con 
Tho and landed safely. ^Xc and the airplane are 
both OK — not a scratch except the 3 bullet 
holes. No sweat. 
Thought I should tell you. 
3 JAN 64—^Missed supper. Com Deken and I were loading some napoleon tonite for an e\'aluation to­morrow. I'll tr>* and explain the experiment. One of the airmen came up with the idea of putting chunks of charcoal into our napoleon tank. Napalm is gasoline whicli is jelled into a mass about the consistency of honey. When you drop it, it ignites and spreads fire about .200-300 ft., like a burning baseball, and does further damage to Victcong houses. Tomorrow 3 birds are going out with half their load straight napalm and the other half with charcoal in it (Mmc. Nhu cocktail). If higher headquarters think it's alright, then they'll buy us the charcoal. So far we've been buying it our­selves or else "borrowing" it from the kitchen. .. . 
7 J/\N 64—Morale is at a big low over here, 
especially among the combat crews. Lost 2 guys 
today. One was a pretty good friend of mine. 
The only guess is — the airplane just came apart. 
B-26. 3rd or 4th that have done that now. . . . 
Wc asked if we could fly an American flag over 
here. Tlic answer was no, Tlicy say the Victcong 
will get pictures of it and make bad propaganda. 
Let them — let them know America is in it. 
If they only would give us good .American air­
planes and really tackle this war wc could possibly 
\vin. .. . I don't know what the US is doing. 
They tell you people that we're just in training 
situations. But we're at war. We are doing the 
flying and ilghting. We arc losing. . . . 
9 JAN 64—Had a good target today finally. Felt like I really dealt a bloiv to the Victcong. On my second bound I got a secondary explosion. This means that after my bomb exploded there was another explosion. It was either an ammo dump or a fuel storage area. It made a huge burning fireball. You really can't tell when you roll in on a pass what is in the huts and trees you're aiming at. Just lucky today, but I paid them back for shooting mc down. 
15 JAN 64—.Another B-26 went in yesterday. No­
body made it out. \ couple of guys I knew 
pretty tvell bought the fann. I had met one guy's 
wife — real nice and they had 2 kids. 
Wc can no longer save face over here, for we 
have no face to save. We are more than ever 
fighting this war. The South Vietnamese T-28s 
used to come down here and fly missions with us. 
But lately, since we've been getting shot so much, 
they moved up north. A friend worked with them 
for awhile. They told him they didn't want to 
come to Soc Trang because they couldn't bring 
their families. Second: they didn't get enough 
per diem, and third: they didn't want to get 
shot at. . . . 

20 JAN 64—I'm over here to do the best job possible for my country-—• yet my country* will do nothing for me or any of my buddies or even for itself. I'm sure nothing will be done over here until after the elections. Why? Because votes are more important than my life or any of my buddies' lives. I love .Amcrico. My country- is the best but it is soft and has not guts to do anything about it at all. What gets me most is that they won't tell you people what wc do over here. I'll bet you that anyone you talk to does not know that American pilots fight this war. We — me and my buddies — do everything. The Vietnamese "students" we have on board arc airmen basics. They know less about flying than Bart. They don't even know their own serial numbers. The only reason they arc on board is: in case we crash there is one /Vmerican "advisor" and one Viet­namese "student." They arc stupid, ignorant sacrificial lambs. They're a menace to have on board, . . . 
26 J.:\N 64—Sorry I wrote some bad letters, but you're the only one I can express myself to. You need someone who will just absorb it and take it off your mind. Can't say things like that to my buddies, for they're experiencing the same emo­tions. . . . 
31 J/\N 64—President Johnson says we're going to stay & win. I hope he's right. Wc can't keep up like ivc'vc been 'cause ^vc're losing. Eycrypnc over here seems unqualified for his job. Take 'me. I'm a multi-engine pilot, but I'm flying T.AC fighters. Wc have no fighter pilot in our-outfltt'. , . 6 FEB &1—Had another big chopper- assault today, but wc flew- mostly escort. Pretty quiet- assault — very few shots fired. I think they're planned that way so that no A^ctnamese soldiers get hurt. J'm serious. I'm pretty well convinced that these people only go into areas tbstt arc free ol Vieteoog. Bat the Vietnamese can still put up a good front to the US so they can get more aid. It's'm known fact over here that the ARVN don't re^v e many casualties. You know how a cornered rat fights. Welly that's the Victcong.. So the ARVN always leaves them a \vay free. This is fact, not rumor.... This is my second letter today. . . . After the first letter — at about 6:30 — we scrambled after a fort under attack. Wc hit & hit good, but it got dark, so wc headed up here for Bien Hoa. Pretty hot target and both of us got hit. 
Coming in here to Bien Hoa, they warned 115 that the AHetcong were shooting at airplanes on the final approach. 
Well, we made a tight, fast approach and held our lights — it was pitch black until almost over the end of the runway. 
I forgot my gear and went skidding along in a shower of sparks down the runway. Airplane's not hurt too bad. I'm not even scratched. My pride is terribly wounded. . . . 
9 FEB &1—I'm not in trouble. Got up yesterday and flew another airplane. The only reprimand I got was taking me off lead status. That's pretty good. My squadron CO picked me up after the crash and said, **When they put retractable gear on airplanes they knew that someday someone would forget." That's all he said. Everyone stuck behind me real good. Flew one mission yesterday and one today. Didn't forget my gear, though. Boy, that was some ride — 100 mph on con­crete in a lead sled. 
17 FEB 64—I'm on alert now. ^Vc don't usually pull nite alert here, but all B-26s are grounded, so wc arc the only strike force left, A B-26 crashed last week — another case of the wings just coming off. . , . 
21 FEB 64—Haven't felt much like writing, Tuesday evening Maj. Fcngficid got shot do%vn. He bel­lied his airplane in next to a special forces camp and got out without a scratch. Tlie airplane burned completely up, though. Bcrnje Lukasik, one of his wingmen, kept the A^ctcong away from the plane by using, his prop. He was out of ammo, so all he could do was dust off the A^etcong with his prop. Took a lot of guts. We got pretty stoned that nitc in celebration of no one's getting hurt. Next morning Bernie Lukasik and Denny Sides took off for Soc Trang and had a strike on the w*ay, Bcmic was going in on his 7th staling pass and never came out of it. That was 2 airplanes in 2 days. Kinda shook us up. Not only that, but the B-26s have been grounded since Monday because the wings came off one again at Hurlburt. So after the last crash the whole USAF fighter force is down to sLx airplanes. This should set an example of how much Uncle Sam cares. 6 airplanes might as well be none. 
Rumor now is that the B-26s will fly again only with greater restrictions. If I lose another friend because of that old airplane I'm going to start writing letters to Charlie Hallcck. Poor B-26 jocks arc really shook -— that airplane is a killer. 
29 FEB 64—I'm a captain now — put the new bars on yesterday. Had the big party early this morning. Then a flight of four hangovers. We had a reporter in no. 4 ship, and he got to watch an actual strike. We want somebody to tell our story over here. . . , We've got a new general in command now and he really sounds good. He has ordered B-57 . . . and he asked for immediate delivery. He's also demanded that they replace our T-28 \**ilh the AD-6. This is a much more powerful single-engine dive bomber. It was de^ signed for this type of ivork & has armor plating. We're • pretty excited. Tlicsc were 3 of my main gripes. Morale has just gone up 100%, I think We're going in the right direction. I sure hope so. . . . 
13 ^L\R 64~-Kinda found out by grapevine that Luke Lukasik, the T-28 jock who got killed, was not shot down. He flew into the ground. This is terrible — but good. It means of the 3 T-28s which have been killed, only one was shot down 
— and even this is debatable. So I put more trust in the airplane. If it can take the beating, it in­creases our odds. . . . 
22 MAR 64—Forgot to tell you they put me back on lead status again. Been flying pretty heavy. We'll soon be back up to 13 airplanes again. Hope these'lost for a while, 
I tniss you all very much, but time is passing and:we're almost halfway. I love you all, JERRY AND DADDY. 
Capt. Shank died two days later. 

Notre Dame Alumntis, June-July^ 1964 15 



BOOKS 

ADMISSION- TO COLLEGE (Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee. 230 pp., $3.95 hard cover; $1.95 soft cover) by Ralph E. Weber '50, '56, and J. W. Arnold. 
Ralph Weber, registrar, director of admis­sions and teacher of histor>' at Marquette U.. who holds his M.S. and Ph.D. from Notre Dame, and who authored a recent interesting biography of Father John Zahm, C.S.C., is co-author of a much different but univeisally interesting book on college ad­missions. 
The new book treats the admissions cli­mate today, the requirements of the colleges, the entrance tests, the expenses and sources of aid, and most of the complex questions that are new even to the parents with col­lege backgrounds. 
Two valuable appendices add to the book's interest—z list of Catholic colleges, mth in­teresting statistics and facts on each, and a list of the colleges and universities with ROTC units, Air Force, Nav)- and Army. 
TH E POLITICS OF HYSTERIA: The Sources of 20th Ccntur>- Conflict (Harper & Row. New York. 273 pp. $4.95) by Edmund Sttllman & William Pfaff '49. 
What are the origins of the true political crisis of our time—a crisis as applicable to the Russians as to the Western World? Its roots, say the authors, lie in beliefs and events in Western history which are still be­ing played out in today's events. For it is the West that created the world revolution that now besets us on ever>' side. It is the West— with its technology and power, its concept of the modem state, its progressive \'iew of his­tory, its confident beliefs in universal order and universal solutions coupled with zeal and instruments of unprecedented violence —^which has disrupted the world, uprooting other traditions, cultures and systems. Now, in those areas, we e.\perience violent reac­tions to the Western impact with attempts to establish new orders, new political and cul­tural syntheses. The authors analyze the origins and development of this historical crisis in Europe, in Russia, and now in Asia and Africa which they see as the source of contemporarj- political conflict with impor­tant implications for the future. They dis­cuss the possibilities of international politics and policy in today's world. Finally, they consider the U.S. in this historical situation: what Americans are, what they have been, what they might become—and how they could fail. They are authors of the highly acclaimed The New Politics, still available in hard cover and paperback. 
TH E CONSERVATIVE AMERICAN: His Fight for National Independence and Constitu­tional Government (The Devin-.Adair Co., New York. 210 pp., $4.75) by Clarence Manion '22. 
Former Law Dean "Pat" Manion follows the current "conservative uprising" back to its origins and fonvard to the "explosive" present. He treats the controversy over the Bricker Amendment, the Connelly Reserva­tion, the income tax, states' rights, etc., which has congealed the determination of conserva­tives to fight for the chance of "a choice" in 
75 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
NEW MEXICO—Notre Dame Night in Albuquerque, N.M., featured (l.-r.): Cecil E. Jordan '40, chairman of the observance; James Cooney, guest speaker from the N D campus; Fr. Richard Butler OP, national chaplain of the US Newman Apostolate; and Richard Everroad '41, president of the ND Club of New Mexico. 
future elections. He also considers winning the cold war and liberating Communist satellites a moral necessity and a prerequisite to the ultimate "re-establishment of Constitu­tional government and national independ­ence." A member of a South Bend law firm, Mr. Manion was formerly a professor of constitutional law at Notre Dame for 25 years. In 1953 he was appointed by Presi­dent Eisenhower as chairman of the com­mission on inter-governmental relations. He has been honored five times by the Freedoms Foundation. For eight years he has con­ducted the "Manion Forum" on radio and television, and he has written The Key to Peace and several other books. 
DON'T PANIC, MOTHER (Bruce, Milwaukee. 101 pp., $2.75) hy Peg Boland. 
Mrs. Boland, wdow of Joe Boland '27, has published another delightful collection of familiar essays on the harried housewife, cats, dogs, roosters, snakes and kids, kids, kids. Her causes for "panic" arc the same ones that have beset every mother, but which she sees for what they are: tempests in tea­pots, and very funny ones at that. She is the author of several books and articles in vari­ous periodicals, some of which are reprinted here. There are essays on more serious con­temporary issues, among them sex and edu­cation. 
LEE'S COMMAND: A Poetic History of the 
War Bet\veen the States With a Southern 
Exposure (Exposition Press, Inc., New 
York. 159 pp., $4.00) by Albert J. Russo, 
MJ). '32. 
Dr. Russo writes: "The poems in this volume represent a poetic effort to captur ^ the major batdes, events and personalities o " the Civil War. This pleasurable under­taking opened new avenues of expression via poetic procedure." The poems are in \'arious meters and rh>Tne forms and often in free verse. The author vvas born in Pennsylvania but settled in Salem, Va., after medical study at the U. of Virginia. .Author of various medical articles and another book, Smilin' Through and Other Poems, Dr. Russo has included poems on several relatively un­known Southern heroes and heroines, includ­ing a few lady spies, and a nightmarish im-^ pressionistic poem on the loss of political freedom. 
GIRL IN A HURRY (Von Hoffman Press, St. Louis. $1.95) *;• Sr. Mary Pauline Grady Ad. PP.S. 
The sister of Thomas F. Grady '41 has written this story of Blessed Maria de Mat­tias, foundress of the Sisters Adorers of the Precious Blood. 
THE MODELING OF MIND, COMPUTERS AND^ INTELLIGENCE (University of Notre Dam ^ Press, Notre Dame) edited by Dr. Ken­neth M. Sayre and Dr. Frederick J. Cros­son '56. 
In this age of phenomenally fast "think­ing machines" two Notre Dame faculty members have published a book designed to help both philosophers and computer tech­nologists better understand the workings of the human mind. Thirteen other scholars are contributois to the book which attempts to clarify the problems shared in common 
by philosophy and technology in probing the computer's potential for imitating behav­
io r which earlier "would have been con­sidered uniquely human/* 
ENGLISH POETRY OF THE FIRST WORLD WAR (Princeton University Press, U.S., and Oxford University Press, England) by Dr. John H. Johnston '47. Dr. Johnston, a war "retread" who was 
graduated after participating in all the ma­jor campaigns in Africa and Europe between 1943 and 1945, has written a study of the inajor poets influenced by World War I, 
includin g Brooke, Grenfell, Nichols, Sorley, Sassoon, Blunden, Owen, Rosenberg, Read and Jones. A former Juggler editor, he studied at Stanford and received advanced degrees from the Universities of Chicago and Wisconsin. He is now an assistant pro­fessor of English at the University of West Virginia. 
ALL OVER GOD'S IRISH HE,\VEX (Henr>' Regnery Co., Chicago. III.) by Rev. Leo 
_ R. Ward, C.S.C. # Father Ward, veteran professor of phi­losophy at Notre Dame, published this study of the Irish temperament on St. Patrick's Day. It is an expansion of his theor)* that faith, poetry and freedom arc "the Irish­man's trinity .. . as natural to him as the air he breathes." Father Ward is the author of an earlier book on Ireland in the 1930's, Cod in an Irish Kitchen. His other books include Blueprint for a Catholic University, Religion in All the Schools, Christian Ethics and God and World Order. 
THE MEMORIAL LIBRARY AND 
THE NOTRE DAME COLLECTION 
The new Notre Dame Memorial Li­brary was the center of activities at the University for the spring and early summer. The Library Dedication, prob­ably the most auspicious event in the 122-year history of the University, will be the subject of a special issue of NOTRE DAME magazine. A selection from approximately 400 alumni-written books was made for displays at the June Alumni Library Appreciation Ceremony in conjunction with the 1964 Class Re­unions. This event will be covered fully in the August-September ALUMNUS. 
As additions to the growing Notre Dame Collection, Director of Libraries Victor Schaefer acknowledges the con­tributions of the following: 
Mr. AngcIo V. Boy '53 for his book, CLIENT-CENTERED COUNSELING IN THE SECONDARY SCHOOL ($4.50). 
Mr. Douglas Cole '56 for his book, SUFFERING AND EVIL IN THE PLAYS OF CHRISTOPHER MAR­LOWE (Princeton University Press, $6.00). 
Mr. James V. Cunningham '44 for PLAN OF OPERATIONS written by Mr. Cunningham and Bernard E. Losh­bough '29 (Action-Housing Inc., Pitts­burgh, $2.00). 
Mr. Ferris Mack for BEST FROM THE FARMER'S ALMANAC edited by Ray Geiger '32 (Doubleday, New York, $3.50). 

ALUMNI IN 
RICHARD J. "DICK" DEEB '47: How to Succeed in Politics ^Vithout Benefit of Press. Can a yoimg conservative Repub­lican, an unknown in politics, buck a pow­erful press monopoly, take a stand contrary to his own politically active family and cap­ture a majority of 200,000 apathetic voters in 12 days? Dick Deeb did—and last year was elected to the Florida House of Repre­sentatives from Pinellas County (St. Peters­burg-Tampa). Dick's triumphant television-mail campaign was the lead story of a re­cent issue of the area's promotion magazine, which characterized his road to success in the face of newspaper opposition as a "path littered with old newspaper clippings — eulogies to his opponents." A native of Tal­lahassee, Dick is a contractor, developer and realtor in the St. Petersburg area. 
GEN. JOHN S. GLEASON, '36: For an All-Timc Record, Presidential Praise. When Veterans Administration Chief John Glea­son visited President Lyndon Johnson in January, he personally presented a check for $55.20, the Johnson share of a $230­million rebate to five million veterans. The checks were written in eight days at a cost of $25,000. In 1961 it took more than three months and $1.4 million. President Johnson wrote to Jack: "Your people did a remark­able job in handling all the refund checks in such a short period of time and I hope you will convey to all who made this pos­sible my personal appreciation." 
JOSEPH HARRINGTON '39: Decorated Panamanian Makes World Who's Vfba. Among the international traders listed in the 1964 edition of "World Who's Who in Commerce & Industry" is Joe Harrington, a native of Clare, Iowa, who has lived in Panama since graduation, for the past 13 years as general manager of Pfizer Corp.'s international distribution center in the Colon Free Zone. Leader of several civic organ­izations in Panama, Joe was last spotlighted when Panama's government decorated him for help to young Panamanians and work for better relations between Panama and North America. 
JAMES J. McFADDEN '42: X Marks the Spot for TVs Most Dramatic Battle. The fight being ^vaged to erase the illiter­ate's signature "X" from ten percent of New York's adult population has been praised by the metropolitan press as the work of Labor Commissioner Jim McFad­den. Cited as "a man of vision and action," Jim headed Operation ."Mphabet, a commu­nity effort to battle illiteracy among half a million New Yorkers with the cooperation of" educators, labor unions, churches, etc., with a five-day-a-wcek course on three local television channels. 
R. PARKER SULLIVAN '37: Now Heads GT&E's Largest in Santa Monica. Harvey Foster '39 called it to our attention when Parker Sullivan, another previous spotlightee, became president and chief executive officer of General Telephone Com­pany of California in Santa Monica. This is the largest telephone operating company of the General Telephone & Electronics Corp. System. Parker and his family live in Pacific Palisades, Calif. 

 THE NEWS 
HARRINGTON 
McFADDEN 
SULLIVAN 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 17 
"jo- 't 
,^?^^:^ m 
^"^«J',^v 
•S;^-"':­
^^: 


By REV. JOHN J. MAREK C.S.C. *36 
Holy Cross Mission Band 





The ^BIG Rctreot 
Annual Notre Dame Lay Retreat Will Be Held For Men and Teen-age Sons August 13-16, 1964 
THE OXE VIRTUE that indi\idualizes the Notre Dame alumnus is his strong loyaltj'. This we know from the astonishing support accorded the Challenge I program. The goal realized, the number of alumni participating with personal contributions, the energy many expended in acquainting nonalumni and corporations ivith the needs of Notre Dame — these were but a few of the practical expressions of that loj-alt)'. It is a natural consequence of the pride each alumnus feels in the University. In whatever field Notre Dame seeks to make its mark, it is of. concern and interest to every alumnus. ; 
Few Know About the Retreat 

If this is true it is astonishing to dis­cover how few alumni are cognizant of the work of Notre Dame in the field of lay re­
18 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July^ 1964 

treats. The Notre Dame summer lay re­treat — better known as "the Big Retreat" 
— has been held on the campus for 46 years. It has grown from a handful of men in 1918 to an annual gathering of nearly 1,500 men from 28 states for an -August retreat in the beautiful environs of the University' •— the \:irgcst lay retreat-of its kind in the country. 
One practical reason for its success is probably ah ideal combination of accessible location, e.\cellent facilities and the lovely setting. And it would be silly to ignore the fact that the name of Notre Dame is magnetic. But how gratifpng to realize that it has drawn thousands of men'and boys (more than 50,000 all told!) ' to a weekend of prayer and meditation as will as to football games. 
Few campuses can offer such facilities for a weekend retreat, so Notre Dame has become a leader in the spiritual regenera­tion of Catholic laymen throughout the Midwest. These men leave the campus theologically enlightened, spiritually re­

freshed and zealously desirous of living their lives in Christ. Through the retreat many are added to the ranks of "subu-ajW" alumni" who give enthusiastic support to 
the University. 
Because the retreat is held after the close of summer school, those who attend are housed in 10 residence halls and take their meals in a student dining hall. Plenty of priests are available. Each hall is as­signed to an experienced member of the Holy Cross Mission Band for indnidual consultations, and more.than 30 priests are on hand to hear confessions. ••;­
All exercises but morning Mass_are held in the open air at the Grotto. Seats are set up in a huge shady grove before the 

^iational shrine of Our Lady of Lourdes, a replica of the world shrine in France. Even the daily Way of the Cross is made at outdoor stations on a path around St. Marj-'s Lake. 
Mechanics of the Retreat 

Tile program of exercises resembles that of most retreats: Mass, conferences, confes­sion, rosary, etc. The retreat begins this year with the evening meal on Thursday, 
•vugust 13, and ends after Sunday break­fast. Because this is an "open" retreat, in contrast to "closed" retreats where silence is maintained throughout, there is a spirit of friendly informality. There is spiritual reading at mealtime and the "great silence" after 10 p.m. But other^vise friends, both old and new, may meet and converse freely. For those who prefer solitude there are the chapels and other quiet spots about the campus. 
^ It is estimated that 300,000 men and 
100,00 0 women make retreats annually in the U.S. The three-to-one ratio may be due not so much to the greater spirituality of men as to the fact that retreats for men seem to have got a head start. There is an increasing trend toward retreats for special groups, those for married couples being in particular demand. Men and women in \'arious occupations or professions some­times have their own retreats — as do members of Alcoholics -Anonymous! — and the average age of retreatants is steadily decreasing. 
For those who have never had this spirit-Vial experience, an open retreat such as 
' Notre Dame's provides a good introduction. Once the retrcatant discovers the graces, the tranquilit}', the physical and spiritual refreshment that flow from this little time away from the world, he may wish next year to make a closed retreat. Or he may, as hundreds do, return to the campus where Our Lady on the Golden Dome holds out her arms to welcome him to the Big Re­treat. 
_ "Put on Mind of Christ" V 
January 4, 1964, was a historic day, the day Pope Paul VI began his pilgrimage to the Holy Land. His itinerar>" included Jerusalem, Bethlehem, Cana and Nazareth 
— cities with a permanent place in sacred histor>' because they were the scenes of Our Lord's life and teachings. Not all can make such a heart-moving pilgrimage, but all Catholics must be impregnated with the life and teachings of Jesus, for St. Paul exhorts all to "put on the mind of Christ." The teaching of Our Lord is the founda­
tio n upon which ever>- Christian must build his life if it is to be successful in the eyes of God. Every Christian assents to this fundamental truth. Yet in the practical order he can lose sight of this truth, or it can lose its efficacy and influence in his daily life. If this happens the Christian will be unconsciously living a disordered life. He will be putting second things first — preferring the good of the body to his im­mortal soul. That is why an annual retreat is so necessary and important. Through its power a Catholic can return to Christ if he has fallen away. Through its grace he can be impelled to live a true Christian life that will give meaning to his existence. Through its light he can be spurred on to bring Christ into his home, community and countr>-. 
The Church realizes the need for a spiritual break and reappraisal. She de­mands her clergy make an annual retreat. How much more important is a retreat for a Catholic laj-man living in a world that is secularistic, materialistic and pleasure-loving! These evil forces are at work to draw him away from God and the high ideals of Catholic living. Therefore we ex­tend an invitation to all alumni to make the Big Retreat at Notre Dame. Here you can make a spiritual checkup amid sur­roundings that are familiar and memorable to you. You can bring a nonalumnus along, not only for spiritual revitalization but also to show him the beauty of Notre Dame. It may be of special interest that while the men are making the lay retreat their teen­age sons can make a special retreat geared specifically to their lives. 
Our purpose in writing this article was to acquaint all Notre Dame men with an­other great work that takes place at the University. If you are apathetic, if you are spiritually resdess, if you feel hemmed in by life and your personal circumstances, if you desire to reinvigorate your living and redefine your goal, if you need the peace that can come only from silence, prayer and meditation — then the Notre Dame Lay Retreat is for you. 
The dates for the Big Retreat are August 13-16, 1964, For full information on de­tails and reser\'ations for the Notre Dame Lay Retreat, write, wire or phone: 
Rev. Jacob A. Smith CS.C. Fatima Retreat House, Box A Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Telephone 219-234-6267 


LAY SPEAKER FOR AUGUST 13-16 RETREAT 
KARL E. MARTERSTECK '29, Vice-President 
Great Lake Dredge & Dock Co., Cleveland, Ohio 
Karl was graduated from Notre Dame in mechanical engineering. A year after graduation he went to work for the Soviet Government as an engi­neer and was stationed for two years at Kramatorski in the Ukraine. While there he married a Russian girl who returned to the United States with him in 1932. She took instructions from Father Flanigan, who was pastor at Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, and was received into the Church in 1933. 
The Marterstecks have two chil­dren, their son a graduate of Notre Dame in 1956, and a daughter who was graduated from Barat College of the Sacred Heart in 1961. Their son is married and has four sons. Their daughter is married and is presently in Japan with her Navy flyer husband. 
In 1934 Karl went to work for Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company and was moved to Cleveland in 1936. He became very active in the local Notre Dame Club and zvas president in 1938. He served a term on the Alumni Board of the University and was Cleveland City Chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation through the $18,000,000 Challenge I Program. 
His apostolic work includes mem­bership in the Lay Legion, a Cleveland apostolic group, for the past 25 years. He is a member of the speakers bureau of the Holy Name Society, the Insti­tute of Social Education and the Serra Club. Within the past 20 years, he has given over 300 talks to various lay groups. 
He is on the Advisory Board of the Institute of Social Education, which is the adult division of St. John College in Cleveland. 
At present he is teaching high school seniors in the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine at St. Christopher Parish, Rocky River, and is also active in the Serra Club. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 19 



New Name for Teaching Apostolate-
VOLUNTEER TEACHERS' SERVICE IS NOW KNOWN AS THE CATHOLIC LAY MISSION CORPS (CLMC) 
By REV. HARRY BAKER C.S.C. '54, Spiritual 
Rev. Harry Baker, of the Congregation of Holy Cross, has been assigned by his superiors as spiritual director for the Catholic Lay Mission Corps. It is believed that CLMC is one of the few lay apostolic organizations to have a priest assigned full time as chaplain. The assignment came at the earnest request of John Benson, Corps Director, along with the effort and encouragement of Rev. Fred Underwood, founder and ecclesiastical director for CLMC. 
Father Baker's duties include reorganization of the program for spiritual development and supervision of individual spiritual development. He is also responsible for locating and assisting local spiritual directors at each mission station, and for assisting the lay directors of CLMC in recruiting, training, de­veloping and publicizing the CLMC movement. Although his responsibilities as spiritual director became effective immediately. Father Baker will not be living at the Austin Headquarters of CLMC until early August. During the summer montlis Father Baker is acting as adminutratiue head of the Program in Liturgical Studies at Notre Dame. 
Father Baker was ordained in 1957 in Rome, where he studied for Ids licentiate in theology. After ordination. Father was assigned to teach theology at the University. In 1961 he received the assignment to assist Rev. Francis Weber, 
C.S.C., an experienced missioner Parish and Hospital. He also Teachers' Mission Service which The work was originally started 
in Central Texas and developer of Holy Cross assisted in the development of the Volunteer is now known as Catholic Lay Mission Corps. by Rev. Fred Underwood, in collaboration with 
Rev. Joseph Haley of Notre Dame. 
The main purpose of the Catholic Lay Mission Corps is to supply qualified teachers in parochial schools of Central Texas. As the numbers and qualities of personnel increase it is possible for geographic growth for the Corps now serving in the diocese of Austin and San Antonio and a foreign mission station in Panama. The schools that are heavily populated with lay missioners are developing high excellence in education under the care of trained principals from the Catholic Lay Mission Corps recruitment. The Catholic Lay Mission Corps offers its members seven categories of challenge: hard work, long hours, low pay, plain food, family living, utilization of all talents and an opportunity to come closer to God and to know Him better. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 Director 
T
HE ALUMNUS story I sent in on 
VTS was done over a year ago, and 

in a new growing group such as VTS a 
number of things have changed. 
For example, the name of our organiza­tion is now the Catholic Lay Mission Corps. Our apostolate is essentially the same, though we have moved our headquarter^.; to Austin, Texas (1111 Montopolis Drive)."^ Notre Dame men and St. Mary's girls have come and gone. Last year we had Carl Ho^an with us — and a whole bevy of St. Mary's graduates; Sue Dana, Cathy Carr, Maureen McCaiTerty, Mary Witliff, Genie Pederson, Myma Ziter, Martha Carpenter and Judy Nelson. This year we have Rose­mary Boughal, Kathy Miller, Diane Shalala. 
As for our work in Latin America, we have been in Panama for a couple of years^ We are working in a very limited way in Mexico — in the "Boystown" of Monterrey. Right now, the word is "collaboration" for working in Latin America, as it is unwise for a small group like our own to bear such a heavy financial burden of trying to train and staflT an overseas mission, when we can work more effectively here. 
I have taken over many of the tasks of Fr. Underwood as ecclesiastical director for the Corps. Also, Fr. Hesburgh was one off; the earliest and most generous benefactors of our Catechetics program of two summers ago. Here is a rundown on our activities: 
PURPOSE 
Lay mission society of volunteers, both single and married, dedicated to the mis­sion of Christian education in the Church, in Texas, mainly in the Austin and San .Antonio dioceses. 
ECCLESIASTICAL AUTHORITY FINANCIAL SUPPORT CHALLENGE PROMISED Catholic Lay Mission Corps is supported Hard work, long hours, low pay, plain 
The existence nnd work of Catholic Lay primarily by the schools in which it food, and opportunities to give yoursdf to 

Mission Corps is under the sanction of the Most Reverend Louis J. Reicher, Bishop of 
works, and by donations from people all your brothers in Christ in Texas or Latin over the country, most of whom are mem­America. 
Austin. Lay Director is John Benson. 
bers of MISSIO, an auxiliary organization. 
Spiritual Director is Rev. Harry Baker, MISSIO members, the "home forces of BENEFITS C.S.C. 
CLMC," are persons who support the or­1. Single Persons 
PAST 
Catholic Lay Mission Corps was started in 1958 at St Joseph's Catholic School in ^fCilleen, Texas, by Rev. Fred Underwood, 
C.S.C. Four members were in CLMC the first year. At that time, the organization was known as Volunteer Teachers' Service. The name was changed from \TS to CLMC to allow for expansion into areas of work in addition to teaching. 
PRESENT 1964 Catholic Lay Mission Corps has 47 mem­bers, mostly teachers, working in eight Catholic grade schools in Texas. Secretaries Vare placed in parishes where priests are overloaded with nonpriestly tasks. The total of 47 includes several administrators, a few construction workers, and several secretaries. Teachers and secretaries at a particular station live together as a family. 
FUTURE 
To continue teaching in needy Cathoh'c schools, in the sense of economic want and/or teacher shortage, primarily among the Mexican-.'Vmericans in Texas. Possible venture into other forms of Christian edu­cation and/or communication, adding a 
^le w dimension to the Corps' activities. Full-time catechetics, for example, has been considered. CLMC has had several years of experience in Latin -America also. In the organization's consideration of possible future activities, a priority is given to the apostolatc in Latin America. Members who are qualified and who are attracted to work in Latin America are encouraged. Efforts will be made to place these CLMC'ers in Latin America in a stable situation where their talent will be utilized. For example, CLMC is considering collaboration with 
V>rganizations now active in Latin America in the placement of members of CLMC who wish to work in Latin .America. 
ganization, but who are not actively in­volved in CLMC projects. 
SPIRITUAL PROGRAM 
While CLMC has adopted a minimal program of spiritual exercises for its mem­bers, this program is not to be considered as something optional. Through the efforts of Father Harry Baker, C.S.C., a spiritual climate is proved in which the accent is on an individualized approach to spiritual development. Daily Mass is e-xpected. Op­portunities for spiritual growth is provided through classes in Christian doctrine spir­itual direction. Members are expected to be integral members of the parish in which they reside. 
DESCRIPTION OF MEMBERS 
Most members of CLMC are recent col­lege graduates. Single men and women. Married couples. Only a few members are from the State of Te.xas. Most have pre­pared for teaching careers while in college. Most members will lea»'e active member­ship in the organization after one, two or three years. CLMC does encourage mem­bers to stay indefinitely, as some are doing. 
TIME COMMITMENT 
Minimum of one school year for work in Te.xas. Longer commitments are en­couraged. 
CLMC NORMS 
Persons who join CLMC join an or­ganization to which they are obligated, and of which they are an integral part. CLMC is not simply a placement agency. Since the organization is a group of lay people, normal social life is encouraged among single and married members of the Corps. Freedom is the password in social life, but the common good is to be respected by members, and will be protected by CLMC. 
Salary of $40 per month, plus room, board and hospitalization. Pay offered for June, JiJy and August to member who has completed a school year, and has agreed to return for a second year. 
Round-trip bus fare between station and home for Christmas travel. 
Group life. 
A definite spiritual program. 

2. Married Couples 
Married couples are paid by special ar­rangements . with CLMC according to family size. 
QUALIFICATIONS 
The ability to live a group life in a family spirit. Generosity, docility, initia­tive, and a desire to become closer to God. Teachers must have a college degree. This is not necessary for secretaries and con­struction personnel. Experience is pre­ferred. The age limit for new members is 21-33, with exceptions on the upper age. 
TEACHER PLACEMENT 
Choice of grade more likely if you apply and are accepted several months before school starts. Teachers come to Austin, for an orientation program on teaching and the spiritual life about three weeks before the beginning of school. Even though teachers join the organization before the school year begins, they do not come to Texas until mid-.\ugust. 
^VRITE FOR DETAILS AND APPLICATION FORM 
Teachers, tradesmen and secretaries \vrite to Placement Director, Catholic Lay Mission Corps, 1111 Montopolis Drive, -Austin, Texas. 
The works of God are all of them good; every need when it comes He fills. 
ECCLESIASTICUS, CH. 3 9 

LATIN-AMERICAN education and the volunteer efforts of educau'onal groups like the Catholic Lay Mission Corps was the subject of a panel discussion led by Father Hcsburgh during the Fifth Conference on International Education held in February in Wasfaii^ai, D.C, under the auspices of the Institute of International Education in New York City. 
§ Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
in the first period. Thereafter, with the new coach substituting many reser\'es, it was a more even contest with the final count being 30-23 for the Varsity-Many reserves also played for the Old-Timers. Quarterback George Izo and Left Half Bill (Red) Mack played well for tiie alumni, and Leon Hart, Bill Wightkin, Johnny Lattner, Chet Os­trowski, Myron Pottios, Gus Cifelli, and Angelo Dabiero were among tlie other stars from yesterj'car to appear. 
In the dressing room after the game. Coach Parseghian spoke as much of spring practice in general as he did of the contest. He stated that he had been 
by Charlie Callahan, '38 

pleasantly surprised at the work of the ends, mentioning Jack Snow, senior, 
MORE THAN 20,000 were in the 

and Phil Sheridan, Junior, on offense, stands as the Varsity defeated the Old-and Paul Costa, senior, on defense. 
Timers 30-23 in the annual game end­John Meyer, senior tackle, came in for ing spring football practice. 

praise, as did Captain Jim Carroll, Under Coach Ara Parseghian, tlie senior, and Dick Arrington, Junior, at Varsit)' Jumped off to a fast 17-0 lead 
READ BY COACH PARSEGHIAN AT SPRING PRACTICE 

"To the Notre Dame Football Team: 

"I always felt that it was a hard job for a sportswriter to write a postmortem on: an athlete who had just retired after a long sports career. But I never knew how hard it would be to write one's own, • 
"The last thing in my mind when I registered at Notre Dame almost three years ago was that today — March 16, 1964 — /, Don Hogan, would be writing an obituary of my sports career. . . ^ 
"It has been a long year and a half since that accident. The pressure at times has been almost unbearable. Last fall I almost made it, but then my progress halted. Over this past semester break my doctors told me I should forget about all active sports for the rest of my life. I found that ultimatum hard to take. I pleaded my case until I was given a set of exercises to try for thirty days; if they didn't do much good, all hope would be lost. 
"Well, the thirty days are up, and then some, and my condition has worsened if anything. What is my condition? The doctors tell me I have arthritis — my hip is like that of a sixty-year-old man. The reason I'm writing this letter, though, is not to tell you my condition, but to tell you why I fought so desperately to overcome it. If only each one of you could be deprived of playing ball for one year, knowing you could help the team but powerless to do anything about it. 
"Why did I keep trying? First of all, I wanted to play for Notre Dame; and I wanted to play with you, my fellow teammates, to be a part of you. 
"Being a part of Notre Dame has been the greatest and most rewarding experience of my short lifetime. When I was in the hospital I received get-well cards from people I didn't even know, from all over the country. Little kids look up to me because I'm a Notre Dame football player. I was fortunate enough to be Notre Dame's leading ground gainer, to win your respect; I'll never forget that night at the pep rally last fall when you gave me a standing ovation. But my most prized possession is that Southern California game ball you gave me. All of these things, plus thousands of people pulling for me, made me postpone my decision until all possibilities of recovery were exhausted. 
"I owe it to you and to my coaches to admit that my football career has ended. But I learned a great deal during my abbreviated career. I hope that all of you will learn and practice the same lesson — that is, never to give up until the game is over.. By "the game" I don't mean just games on Saturday, but anything you do, whether it be a pre-spring workout or a long practice session, or anything in life for that matter 
— give your all. 

"Being a Notre Dame football player automatically puts you in the national spot­light, more so than playing for any other school. The fans will be pulling for you just as hard as they pulled for me — don't let them down. Be honest with yourself.. 
"Well, I'd better be closing now, but I just had to tell you why I made my de­cision, what Notre Dame football meant to me, and what I hope it means to you. I hope that you and everyone else who has shown an interest in me will not think the less of me for making this decision. 
"One last thing: I'll be out there this spring and fall watching practice and your games; and if ever practice seems too long or you get tired along about that fourth quarter, just stop and think for one second that a guy named Hogan would give anything to trade places with you, and if he could he would never quit — then after you think it over give that second and third effort. Bring Notre Dame football back where it belongs. Someone in the stands will get the message of that extra effort, and that someone will be mighty pleased and proud. 
"Best of luck, Don Hogan Class of 1965" 

the guards. Seniors Norm Nicola and Tom Kostelnik were named one-t\vo at center. He spoke of Bill Wolski, Junior,^ as the best running halfback, and also told of how well Junior halfback Nick Rassas had come along in the spring drills. He said there would be experience at fullback with Seniors Joe Farrell and Joe Kantor, and Junior Pete Duranko, but mentioned there was great lack of depth at the other backfield positions. Sophomores men-— tioned in his chat included Tackles Kevin Hardy, Alan Page and Tom 
. Regner, end Don Gmitter, and line­backer Jim LjTich. At the all-important quarterback position. Coach Parseghian stated that he had been pleasantly sur­prised with the work of senior John Huarte. However, Huarte suffered a shoulder injury a week before the Old-Timers game, and did not dress for^, the contest. Ale.K (Sandy) Bonvechio," also a senior, played most of the game for the Varsity at quarterback. 
Generally, there is an attitude on the campus that the intense, hard-working Parseghian is going to get the Job done, . but no overnight miracles are expected. BASKETBALL . . . The final statistics had the Irish winning 10 and losing 
14. As announced previously, Johnny Jordan announced in midseason thathe was leaving as head coach. At season'^^ end, at the annual team banquet, he was presented wdth a car by Notre Dame friends in South Bend. At the same banquet, Johnny Dee, who had been announced as the new head coach a few days before, made his first public campus appearance. Dee will be re­membered as an ace forward on the 1945 and 1946 Irish quintets, and he also played briefly in football as a quarterback. After high school coach-^ ing in Chicago, Dee served as an as­sistant to Jordan in 1951-52 while finishing his studies at Notre Dame Law School. After receiving his law degree, he became head basketball coach at the University of Alabama. He was at Alabama four years and in the 1955-56 season his team \vas unde­feated in winning the Southeastern Conference title. Thereafter came five^ seasons as head coach of the Denver Truckers in AAU ball, and one as boss of the Kansas City Steers in tlie Ameri­can Professional League. During his residence in Denver, Dee passed the Colorado bar and was a practicing at­torney in the mile-high cit}'. Dee is married to the former Katherine Noe-son, and they have three children, two boys and a girl. . . . Getting back to 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
the 1963-64 Notre Dame hardwood 

season, the leading scorer was junior ^uar d Larry Sheffield, who tallied 535 ' points, for an average of 22.3 per game. 
Sheffield also set a new one-game Notre Dame scoring record when he tallied 47 points in the University of Detroit game played in the N.D. Field-house. 
Junior forward and junior center Ron 

i Reed and Walt Sahm, both of whom 
i^missed six games for different reasons, 
•^averaged 20.0 and 17.4 points per game respectively, and, perhaps more important, they rated sixth and seventh in the nation in rebounding. Jay Miller, junior forward, who rated as the fourth highest .scorer with an 11.4 average, and Sahm were elected co-captains for 1964-65. Inasmuch as all five starters return, prospects are fairly bright for 
^ne.xt season. 
FENCING .. . AS has often been the case in recent years, the fencing team had the best won-and-Iost record of the winter season, the best record of any Irish squad to date this year, in fact Coach Mike DeCicco's men won 15 and lost only two, and in the NCAA championship meet, held at Harvard, they placed fifth. In the NCAA compe­tition. Bill Ferrence placed fourth in foil, Sam Crimone eighth in sabre, and 

^Dick Alarks eighth in epee. SWIMMING .. . In this rather new sport at Notre Dame, in which Coach Dennis Stark has never had a losing season (in six campaigns), the 1963-64 record showed six wins and five losses, and Captain Chuck Blanchard set new Notre Dame marks in the 100- and 200­yard freestj'le events. 
JIM CARROLL '63 Chosen to Captain Ara's Assassins 
WRESTLING . . . Coach Tom Fallon's wrestling team also had a \vinning sea­son with five victories and four losses. Dick Arrington, of varsity football line fame, handled the heavyweight duties here, was undefeated in regular season competition, and went to the second round in the NCAA meet at Cornell. 

TRACK . . . Indoors, Coach Alex Wilson's men defeated Purdue and In­diana in a triangular meet, and Pitts­burgh in a dual meet, and also placed well in the Michigan State Relays, Cen­tral Collegiate Conference meet, the IC4A meet, the Milwaukee Relays and Cleveland Knights of Columbus Games. Bill Boyle, junior quarter-miler, erased Coach Wilson's indoor 440 mark (set 32 years ago) when he was timed in :47.9 seconds. The high spot of the outdoor campaign will take place here graduation weekend when the Irish will host the Central Collegiate Con­ference meet. For the year, the finest individual track performance was by Captain Pete Whitehouse, senior from Staten Inland. N.Y. On Feb. 22, as the Irish defeated Pittsburgh, 73-31, in a dual meet at home, AVhitehouse first won the high jump (6 feet 2 inches), then set new Fieldhouse and Notre Dame indoor records in winning the 60-yard high hurdles (:07,3), and fi­nally captured his third victory in the 60-yard low hurdles as he tied the Notre Dame indoor record (: 06.9). 
BASEBALL . . . The baseball team finished fast, \vinning 10 of their last 12 games, and had an over-all record of 16 victories, 12 losses, and one tie under veteran coach Jake Kline, Rich Gonski, senior shortstop from Chicago, and Shaun Fitzmaurice, junior center-fielder from Wellesley, Mass. Gonski led in batting with a .379 average, and set a new Notre Dame record in homers with 10. Gonski was the leading batter also as a junior and for three years had 
a .356 average. Fitzmaurice was the runner-up in batting this spring with a .360 average and set a new Notre Dame record in triples with 10. In the important runs-batted-in department Fitzmaurice led with 28 followed by Gonski with 24. 
GOLF . . . The Irish linksmen, coached by Rev. Clarence Durbin. C.S.C., had the finest spring record of any ND team, winning 20 matches and losing only four. Perhaps the high spot of the season was the Iowa Invita­tional meet at Iowa City May 9. Seven Big Ten teams were entered, and the Irish finished first. Jim Hiniker, junior from Hastings, Minn., was the medalist 
JOHNNY DEE Heir to Jordan's Jumping Jacks 

in this meet. Hiniker, Captain. Mike O'Connell (junior, Carthage, 111.), Pat Danahy (sophomore, Pearisburg, Va.), Charles McLaughlin (sophomore, Mi­ami Springs, Fla.), and Bill R^nier (sophomore. La Porte, Ind.) will rep­resent Notre-Dame in the NCAA tour­nament, at Colorado Springs, Colo., June 16-21. 
TENNIS . . . For the regular season. Coach Tom Fallon's tennis team had a very fine record of 11 victories and only three losses. This combined with an Easter vacation trip to Florida, in which they beat Yale and Cornell, but lost five matches to more seasoned Florida schools, made the final record of 13 wins and eight losses. Pedro Rosello, sophomore from Puerto Rico, and Captain Alan Davidson, senior from New York City, played in the number one and two singles spots all season. 
CLUB SPORTS .. . If the question, "What's new in sports at Notre Dame?" were to be asked, the an­swer would be in the development of, and enthusiasm shown club sports on the campus. The Rugby Club won 11 matches, lost two, tied four, and fin­ished with a 26-0 victory over the strong St. Louis Bombers, with more than 1,000 in the stands on Cartier Field. The Lacrosse Club won five matches, lost six. Jack Tate was the team captain. In Sailing, senior Tom Fox won first place in the Midwest Championships. The Ski Club, under John Turner, placed first in the NCAA Midwest meet. The Soccer Club en­joyed a 7-3 record last fall, and the Hockey Club got underway with sev­eral games last winter. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 23 


of Clubs and Their President' 
ALABAMA 

John A. O'Brien, Jr., "51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­ham, Ala. 
ALASKA 

John S. Hellenthal, '33, Box 941, Anchor^ige, Alaska. 
ARIZONA 

Phoenix—Thomas A. Hcnnlgan, Jr., *42, 5729 E. Joshua Tree Ln., Scottsdalc, Ariz. 
Tucion—Timothy R. Kin§. '37, 5651 
E. Scarlett, Tucson, .-Vnz. 
ARKANSAS 

Fori Smi/A—James A. Ciller. '48, 3715 Free Ferrv- Rd., Fort Smitli, Ark. 
LSttle Rock—^James E. Madigan, '43, 4fil7 Crestwood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

BflA-^rjM''—Richard L. Bamett. '56. 630 Golden State Hi.v., Bakersfield, Calif. 
Ceni™;—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Sccre­tar>), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno. Calif. 
Greater Long Beach Area—Francis E. Conaty, '43. 3742 West I'Olh St., Torrance, Calif. 
Los Angeles—Robert L. Ger\-ais, '55, 3219 Rosewood Ave., Los .\ngcles 66, Calif. 
A'ortJeni—Daniel J. Gentile, Jr.. '48, 2932 Hillside Dr., Burlingamc, Calif. 
Orange County—^Thomas J. Gctzing­er, '53, 2212 E. Wlshire .Ve.. Fullcrton, Calif. 
Sacramento—Allrrd A. Kaclin, '55, 4732 Crestwood Wav Sacramento 22, Calif. 
San Diego—Chris J. Cohan. '54, 6080 Cowles Mtn. Blvd., La Mesa, Calif. 
San Fernando Valley—Robert Hunter, '52. 8757 Jumilla Ave., Northridge, Calif. 
Son Gabriel Valley — William T. Huston. '31. 612 S. Flower St.. Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. 
COLORADO 

Colorado Springs — Otto K. Hilbert, '54, 640 Dove Place, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Denver—^Jamcs R. Hilger, '57, 3166 
S. Vine St., Englcwood. Colo.. 80110. CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley — Robert L. Mc-Goldrick, '56, Old County Highway, East Granby, Conn. 
Fairfield County—AVilliam Mulrcnan, '37, 100 Tidemill Terr., Fairfield, Conn. 
Naugatuck — Domcnic \. Karducci. Jr., '52, 44 Beacon Manor Rd., Aaugatuck, Conn. 
New Haven—^Dr. Robert T. Warner. '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE Richard P. Hairsiiic, '55, 2219 Hearn Rd., Fairfax, Wilmington 3, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Albert .K. Virostek, Jr., '56. 7707 Granada Drive, Bethesda 14. Md. 
FLORIDA Central—^Joseph M. McNamara, '47, 
P.O. Box 5547, Orlando, Fla. 

Fort Lauderdale —• Robert E. Mc-Donough, '52, 2844 Plunltctt St., Hollywood, Fla-
Greater Miami—Raymond Popp, '38, 444 N.E. 50th Terrace, Miami, Fla. 
Xorth FIorida—.WhcTt H. Kessing, '40, 7245 Colienv Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 
Palm Beach County—Daniel Dow*ney, Jr., '44, Suite 615. Harvey BIdg., West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Pensacola^ohn L. McCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pcnsacola, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa — ^ta^k E. Mooncy, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Richard G. Murphy. '44, G77 Ponce dc Leon .Ave., N.E., .Atlanta, Ga. 
HAWAII 
Har\-ey Lung. '53. 1605 Uluco St., Kailua, Oahu, Hawaii. 
IDAHO 
P. Michael Kohout, '59. 3702 Trail 
Circle, Boise, Idaho 8370t Idaho Falls — James M. Btady, '29, 
P.O. Bos 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS .4urora — Richard D. Schiller, '56, 998 Palace St., Aurora, III. Central Illinois — Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53. 3M9 S. Fifth St., Spring­field, III. Chicago — Paul Fullmer, '55, 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago 45, 111. Drroliir—John F. Foy, "35, 1416 W. Decatur St., Decatur. III. Eastern Illinois—Lester D . Fahcy, '42, 11 prairie, Danv*ille, III. Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, III. Jolict — Robert M. WaUh, '43, 2609 Dougall Rd., Jolict, III. Kankakee Valley — Thomas J. Rev­nolds, '54, 343"/. S. Winlicid, Kankakee, 111. McHenry County—Donald C. Freund, '55, 455 Brook St., Crystal Lake, 111. Peoria — John R. Powers, '53, 2910 Westport Rd., Peoria, III, ifocyor<(—Albert Carroll. '22, 205 W. State St., Rockford, III. Rock River Valley — Luke R. Motin. '33, 523 X. Dixon Ave., Dixon, III. Southern Cook County — Robert N. Callarelli, '55, 2633-E Hawthorne Lane, Flossmoor, III. 
INDIANA 
Calumet District — .Anthony Kuhar­ich, '35, 7145 Baring Parkway, Hammond, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—James F. HalHgan, '32, 303 Wysor Bldg., Mundc. Ind. Elkhart — Austin Glldea, '30, 5 St. 
Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. Evanxville—D. Patrick O'Danid, '59, 3110 East Gum St., E\-ansvilIc, Ind. Fort Wayne —• Jerome F. Hipsktnd, 
i Stanford Dr., Fort Wayne, 
'59,2505 r • • " " "' 
Ind. 

Grant County — Eugene A. Campa­nalc^ '50, 3001 Lincoln Blvd., Marion, Ind. 
Indianapolis—Dr. Tliomas P. Carney, '37, 502 E. 75ih St., Indianapolis 20, Ind. 
Michigan City — J. Emmett Miller, '24, 3007 Cleveland .Ave., Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph VaUey — Richard Clcar>-, *50. 1635 Woodmont, South Bend, Ind. 
Terre Haute — James P. Boyer, *49, 
2340 McKeen, Terre Haute, Ind. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
IOWA 

Burlington — William Bauer, '57, 119 ^larietta St., Burlington, Iowa. 
Cedar Rapids—A. James Murray. '60, 3701_ Kcncrest Drive, N.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
Des Moines — Joseph B. Joyce, '54, 4708 S.W. 16th St., Des Moines 15, Iowa. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Our Ladx- of Se\*en Dolors Rectory, Fcstina, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities [Daven^orty Rock Island^ Moline, E. Moline) — Thomas F. Britt, '52, 119 Fcmwood, Daven­port, Iowa. 
KANSAS 

Eastern Kansas—T. Henry De\-lin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Salina—John C. Browne, *5l, 5th & Court Sts., Clay Center, Kansas. Wichita—George A. Schwarz, '25, 500 Orpheum Bldg., Wichita 2, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 

Robert H. Willenbrink, '49, 2151 Strathmoor Blvd., Louis\-il]e, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 

AVa) Or/raw—Pierre V. Miller, '59, 5527 Jacqueline Ct., New Orieans, Louisiana. 
Xortkem Louisiana—George J. Des­pot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. 
MAINE 

J. Paul Scully, Jr.> '41, 134 Cottage St., Lewiston, Maine. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore — William J. Keary, '54, 412 North Bend Rd., Balumore 29, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Berkshire County — Frank J. Kelly, '28, P.O. Box 302, Lee, Ufass. Boston — Cornelius Fowler, *47, 44 Gailord Street, Melrose 76, Mass. Pioneer I'o/fo'—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, 11 Pynchone Rd., Holvoke, 
Mass. 
MICHIGAN 

Battle CrwA—Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard PI., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. RitU Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. 
Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
Dearborn — Joseph W. Byrne, '52, 8G43 Kinloch, Dearborn, Mich. Dr/roil—John R. Panclli, '49, 22750 West 8 Mile Rd., Detroit 19, Mich. Hinl — Walter G. Naeel, '56, 1921 Castle Lane, Flint, Mich. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn. '40, Wright &. Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
— Robert C. Woodhouse '47, 1664 .\Iexandcr, S.E., Grant! Rapids, Mich. 49306 
Hiau:athaland ~ Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Ludington St., Escanaba, Midi. 
Jackson — Cjiil J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Joseph O'Kecfe, '44, O'Kcefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Lansing — Bernard J. Mayotte, '50, II30 Hitching Post, E. Lansing, Mich. 
.Wonroi—Hugh J. Laughiia, '40, 1587 Rivervievv, Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Rcneer St., Muskegon, Mich. 
Saginaw Valley — Gerald E. Carroll, '46, 2124 SL\th St., Bay City, Mich. 
Top ol Michigan — Edward L. Xtolo-'* ncy, '17, 416 East State St., Che--^ bo\-gan, Midi. 
MINNESOTA 
Twin Cities — John F. Clifford, '38, 984 Ashland Ave., St. Paul, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Miller, '30, 753 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI Kansas City — Harold S. Solomon, 
•47, 1221 W. 7Ist Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louis — C. T. *'Connie" Lane, '37, 11334 Clayton Rd., St. Louis, -Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Graincy, '43, 906 — 11 .^ve., Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs — Dr.^ James J. Leahy, '42, 3108 LincolnW Blvd., Omaha 31, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 
Centjal — William A. Richardson, '55, 7 Orchard Rd,, Piscata«-ay, X.J. 
Neof Jersey Shore — George A. Baris­dllo, Jr.. '44, 444 Golf Rd., Deal Park, N.J. 
New Jersey—Ham- Durkin, '53, 24 Branforti Place, Newark, N.J. South Jersey — James B. Canon, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
% 
NEW MEXICO 
Richard R. Everroad, '41, 2323 Mor­row Rd., N.E., Albuquertjue, N.M. 
NEW YORK .Albany — Frank E. O'Brien. '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y. Buffalo — Paul D . BaUing, '53, 525 Orchard Place, North Tonaw^nda, N.Y. Crntra/—Francis W. Cahill, Jr., '59, 101 Woodbi™ Terr., Syracuse, N.Y. Golden Circle—Jessies F. McVay, '42,V 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson Valley—BiiAn C. O'Neill, '56, •ntusvillc Road. Rt. No. 2, ; Poughkeepsie, N.Y. I Mohauit Valley — L. Daniel Callan, I '49, 62 Pearl St., New Hartford, N.Y. New York City — Augustin S. Har­dart, '42, 26 Crescent Rd., Larch­mont, N.Y. Rochester — Reginald A, Morrison, '37, 175 Biltmorc Dr., Rochester 17, N.Y. Schenectady — Robert B. Piorkowslu, '54, 9 Oak HiU Dr., Scotia 2, N.Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York." 
(^ 

• 
A 
Southern Tier — Fmnk F. O'Brien, OKLAHOMA TENNESSEE La Cross — Dnane D . Hammes, '56. 
'34. 201 Federation BIdg., Elmlra, 3111 S. LoKT, La Cn»e , Wise. 
N.Y. Oklahoma City — Walter A. Nashcrt, Chattanooga — Edts-ard F. Davis, '43, 
Jr., '54, 2601 Drakeslone, Okla­506 Baninston, Signal Mountain, A/crriO—Augustus H. Stange, '27, 102 
Triple Cities — Joseph P. Galloivay, homa City, Okla. Tcnn. S. Ftrospm St., Merrill, Wise '51, 29 Xornun Rd. (MR97), 
Binshamton, X.Y. Tulsa — William N. Shechan, '49, Memphis ~ Roy E, GUlia, '56, Peat Milwaukee—Thomas L, MtUcahr, '57, 
1931 S. Evanston, Tulsa, Okla. ManWck Mitchell & Co., 2500 7349 N. Lombaidr Rd., Milwau­Sterick Bldg., Memphis, Tcnn. kee 17, Wise. 
Northwest WtscoHsin—Ben M. Siri-

OREGON TEXAS 
NORTH CAROLINA anni, Jr., '60, 229 McKinley Ave., Donald J. Kebey, '48, 1115 West-
Phil R. Meancy, '50, 223 Board of Dallas — Donald K. Harris, *58. 4225 Eau Claire, Wise. Trade Bldg., Portland, Ore. 
ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. Glcnwood, Dallas 3, Texas. South Centra/—Bemanl S. Mixtacki, El Pojo—Edu-ard T. Jennings, '53, 312 '50, 6303 Sylvan Ln., Itfadison, Olivia Circle, El Paso, Texas. Wise. 53716. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Hou^/on—Robert F. Dillon, '48. 9418 Southeastern — Edwin E. Raymond, 
NORTH DAKOTA 

Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Winsome Lane, Houston 42, Texas. Jr., '49, 2820 21 St.. Racine. Wise. Katter, '41, U.S. Bank Bldg., 
William Daner, '53, 1106 S. HigUand Midland-Odessa — John L. O'Hem, .Acres, Bismarck, N.D. Johnstown, Pa. 
'37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Texas. 
Erie — Richard T. McCormick, '55, 
WYOMING 

Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, Wormiurj—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 
4425 Chcrr)- St., Eric, Pa. 
1205 W. Elizabeth St., Brownsville, Piitrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest Bldg., P.O. Box 48!, Casper, Wyo. 
OHIO Park Ave., New Cumberbnd, Pa. Texas. Alron—James E. Murphv, '53, 654 
Lehieh Valley—Ercalo J. Spinosa. '57, San Antonio—^William E. Lamm, '50, Cliffside Dr., Akron, Oliio. 1124 Kearney St., .Allcntown, Pa. 321 Eleanor Ave., San Antonio, 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Texas. 

Mononsahela Valley—Louis W. Aponc, 
Conlon—Robert L. Jolict, '51, 4610 
Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, iforeau House, 28_2in­

Yale Ave., N.W., Canton 9, Ohio. '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, UTAH 
Don J. Roney, '58, 320 East Fourth, 
Cincinnati—J. Barr>* Savage, '54, 1704 Philadelphia—James P. Lcydon. 268 Salt Lake City 8, Utah. dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. Kingsway, Cincinnati, Ohio. Henley Rd., Philadelphia 51, Pa. 
Canada — Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, Cleveland—Joseph E. Sotak, Jr., '40. 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Pittsbursh — Paul A. Hudak. '51, VIRGINIA 3340 Rumson Rd., Cleveland 705 FairvieW Ave., Pittsburgh 38, 
Leo F. Burke, '44, 90O Bkinton Ave., Chile — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, Heights, 18, Oliio. Pa. 
Richmond, Va. C.S.C., *42, St. George's College, Columbus — Roger O. Zoellner, '53, 
Scranlon — C. Richard Marshall, '51, Aven, Pedro dc Valdivvi 1423, San­
Tidewater—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 153 
\ 185 Winthiop Rd., Columbus 14, ConncU BMg., Scranlon 3, Pa. tiago, Chile. Ohio. 
Cedar Ln., L>Tlnharen, Va. 
li'ilkes-Barre — Ra>-mond J. Sobota, £i:uarfor—John Moellcr, '47, P.O. Box Dayton — Patrick J. Foley, '54. 501 '49, 760 Minen Bank, Wilkcs-B.arre, WASHINGTON 213, Quito, Ecuador. Third Nat'l Bldg., Dayton 2, Ohio. Pa. —
Germany Charies A. Hickman, '58, Hamilton—^Jerome A._ R>-an. '41, 353 Williamsport — Joseph F. Orso, Jr., 2003 37th Ave., Spokane, Wash. Schellmgstrasse No. 81, Munich, South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. '55, 641 Oliver St., Williamsport, 
Spokane — Richard St. John, '56, E. 
Germany. 
99203. 

Pa. Manila — Conrado Sanchez. Jr., '54, 
Mansfield—Lco J. Scanlon, '30, 121 It'eslern — Alct S. Tolh, '49, 4527 83 Mayon St., Quezon City, Phil­Pearl Street, Crestline, Ohio. RHODE ISLAND 
Second Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, ippines. Xorthweslem — James W. Myers, '38, AND SOUTHEASTERN Wash. 230 E. Wayne St., Cclina, Ohio. 
Mexico eixy—Telmo De Landero, '37, 

MASSACHUSETTS ^VEST VIRGINIA Eugenio Sue No. 220. Mexico City, Ohio Valley—Robert R. Sincavich, "50, Edirard P. Denning, '50, 114 Green­Mcjuco. 
Cyril M. Reich, '39, 903 S. Drew St., 
134 Grant Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. wich Ave., E. Providence, R.I. 
St. Albans, W.Va. Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, *45, Box Sandusky — Richard C. Hohlcr. '4 3393, Binama, Rep. of Panama. 
Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. 
2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. 

"1 Easi " SOUTH CAROLINA 
Box 2063, Clarksbuts, W.Va. Peru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, fffin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Lima, Peru. 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Sycamore St., TiiSn, Ohio. Dr., Westwood, Charleston, S.C. WISCONSIN Puerto Rico — Riul McManus, '34 Toledo — James P. Silk, '54, 2707 (Vicc-Prcs.), Calle McKinlcy 666, 
fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, Gracewood Rd., Toledo, Ohio. '56, 210 X. Summit St., Appleton, Miramar, Puerto Rico. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 
Wise. 

Youngstoimt—Charles J. McCrudden, Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34 
'57, 124 Prestwick, Youngslown, Black WiHj—Bernard Gira, '10, Cus­Green Bo)—Robert W. Schaetcr. '53, (Secretary], Palazzo Brancacdo, 
Ohio. ter, South Dakota. 2522 Martha St., Green Bay, Wise. Largo Brancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy. 
December 15, 1963, our obscr\'aiice of Notre Dame fund director and father of two Notre Dame Communion Sunday; April 6, I9&4^, Universal Notre graduates, handled the introduction of the invited Dame Night; and May 22, 19&t, (Scheduled) 3rd guest. Paul Hellmuth '40, "1956 Man of the Year" Annual Scholarship Ball. and lay trustee of the University, also advised the 
Universal Notre Dame Night brought out many officers on arrangements. old faces in the Baltimore area. The Notre Dame CHARLES PATTERSON '44, also a "Man of the 





Clubs 

"Man of the Year" award went to the past presi­Year" and past president of the Boston Club, agun dent of the Club, \\1LLIAM L. GAUDREAU, headed the Selection Committee for the 1964 Blan Class of '53, JIM MURR/\Y, Class of '42, «as of the Year winner, LOU DIGIOVANNI, an­cliairman of the affair which was presided over nounced at the dinner. Dancing 10 p.m. to mid­
Atlanta 
by Club President BILL KEARY, Class of '54, night. Jack Hennessy's popular orchestra played  In December we honored JIM CARROLL on and Club Vice-President TOM SHINE, Class of for dinner and dancing. PHIL PHILBIN edited being elected captain of the Notre Dame football '59. Mr. Don Shula, coach of the National Foot­an attractive souvenir program which had a special team for 1964, and we presented HARRY J. 
ball League's Baltimore Colts, was guest speaker. listing for sponsors. 
MEHRE with a plaque for his service on the na­His subject was "The Role of the Coacli As In accord vdih Article III, Section 1 and 2 of the tional board of directors. At this meeting we abo Teacher and Director of His Team," an interest­Club Constitution, PRESIDENT FOWLER des­elected new officers. RICHARD MURPHY is now ing viewpoint on the teacher-coach and player ignated Monday, April 6, 19G4, as the date of the the new president of the local alumni association. 
relationship. Annual Club Meeting to be held at 7:30 pjn. 
The vice-president is TOM GUNNING, JR., 
—.ANTHONY M. ^aLETO, Secy. Engineers Club, 96 Beacon Street, Boston. A recom­
the secretary- JOE SIGNIAGO, the treasurer mended slate of officers was submitted by the Com­MELVILLE RUMMEL. In addition a board of mittee selected by President Fowler. Results of the directors, including myself, PAUL SMITH, ED 
Boston election will be announced next issue. 
.\BRAMS, BILL SCHROEDER, HARRY MEHRE, Very Re^. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC. About 125 members of the Club and friends THOMAS GUNNING, SR., JOE MOORMAN, and 
RICHARD DE GOGLAIN, were selected to con­president of Notre Dame, was guest of honor and attended the kickoff of the Challenge H pro­principal speaker at the 41st Annual Universal gram of the Foundation at Tiffany's on Feb. 2, tinue the program of the local chapter in con­Notre Dame Night, observed by the Boston Club 1964. This exciting program was quarterbacked by junction ^vith Foundation work and also to aid on Monday, April 13, 1964 at the Sheraton Plaza Challenge H Chairman CHUCK PATTERSON '44  the present officers in attempting to add additional Hotel, Boston. Father Ted came here directly with an able assist from BOB KLUIR *58. ED enthusiasm to our local group. Last fall we held a from New Haven where he attended the installa­"MOOSE" KRAUSE '34, director of athletics, and joint gathering with the Michigan State Group tion of the new president of Yale University on JIM COONEY '58, both from the University, did and listened to the Notre Dame-Michigan State April 11. This visit was his first with the Boston an exceptionally fine job of outlinins the plans of game over the radio. 
Club as the University* president, and it was in the New Convocation Center and Field House. 
As you know, ARCHBISHOP HALLINAN has keeping with a promise he made to come and Boston was the first city to be visited by this finebeen quite seriously ill for the past few months. We talk to us as soon as his busy schedule would per­duo who will make 50 visits to key alumni dties are making a re-presentation of his Notre Dame mit. We of the Boston Club were grateful for the before June 1st. 

Man of the Year Award, including photographs of opportunity of meeting w-ith and hearing Father The Notre Dame Concert Band appeared at John the presentation, as soon as he is well enough to go Hesburgh, who is truly one of the world's great Hancock Hall, Boston, on March 30, 1964, tmder through the ceremony. 
personalities in the fields of education, science and the sponsorship ol the Camp Scholarship and World —ROBERT F. HOCHMAN, Retiring Pres. 
the humanities. CHARLES COLTON '29 coordi­Service Cmnmittee, Allston-Brighton Branch of nated all the details as general chairman and was Y.M.CA. This was the only New England ap^ Baltimore assisted by an able group which included all the pearance of this famous University of Notre Dame The activities of the Notre Dame Club of Balti­members of the Board of Directors. HON. JOHN Concert group. The Club membership was encour­more from Dec , 1963 thru April, 1364, included: 
B. HYNES, Banking Commissioner, a Foundation 3%ed to attend and support this concert. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 2964 25 
BOSTON—^Universal Notre Dame Night principals included (from left): Timothy J. Toomcy '30, vice-president of the national Alumni Assn.; Hon. John B. H)-nos, Mass. banking commissioner and ND Foundation chairman; Paul F. Hellmuth *40, University board of lay trustees; Father Hcsburgh '38, guest speaker; and Cornelius Foivler '47, Boston Club president. At right Pres. Fowler looks on as ND Man of the Year Louis F. DiGiovanni receives his scroll from C V. Patterson '47, a^vard chairman. 
Tlic sjinpathy and prayers of the entire Club 
membership are extended to the families of President 
NEIL FOWLER '47 and BILL STEWART '43. Tltc 
fathers of both these fine mcmben passed away 
within the past month. \VILLUM STEWART SR. 
was long a fiiend of Notre Dame men evcr>"­
wherc. He spoke to the members of the Boston 
Club at the Universal Notre Dame Communion 
Breakfast on December 8, 1963 at which time he 
was given an honorary membership plaque for his 
outstanding generosity to all Notre Dame programs. 
Remember these and all Notre Dame grads and 
their families in your prayers. Support your parish 
and civic programs, lend a hand and your dicck­
book to Challenge II project of iJic Foundation 
Fund. 
—TIM TOOMEY, '30 

Buffalo 
Our Annual Election Meeting %vas lield in Buffalo at the Hotel Lenox on Feb. II. New officers elected to assume their duties oti Universal Notre Dame Night are: President PAUL D. BALLING '53, Vice-President EUGENE P. O'CONNOR *56, Corres­ponding Secretary- JOHN J. McMAHON '55, Fi­nancial Secrctar>- JOSEPH M. BUCKHEIT '53, and Treasurer RICHARD C. AVAGNER '53. New Directors elected for three-year terms are: HENRY 
J. BALLING JR. '52, JOHN F. ENDRES JR. '53, JOHN A. LA VIGNE '49, and EUGENE P. O'CONNOR '56. 
Retiring Directors are: Justice \VILLIAM B. LA^VLESS JR. '44, FRANCIS J. GAGLIONE '39, DONALD T. MAHONEY '50 and JAMES F. CASEY '44. In summarizing his successful adminis­tration. President ROBERT C. WEBER '53 lauded the 185 ducs-paj-ing members. MAURICE F. QUINN '38 was chairman for this meeting. Ath­letic Director ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE '34 and Assisunt Foundation Director DONALD K. ROSS '53 launched the Challenge Program in Buffalo on March 3rd. The event took place at a dinner in the K. of C Council 184 on Delaware Avenue. GEORGE W. FERRICK *41, our general clialmian for Challenge II, acted as toastmastcr. One hun­dred club members and their guests thoroughly en­joyed a fine presentation by **Moose." T1iirt\'-onc members, led by Chairman ^L\URY QUINN, again spent the Passion Sunday weekend on re­treat at Derfiy, New York in St. Columban's Re­treat House. 
Universal Notre Dame night was held April 15 in the Continental Inn, Town of Tonawanda. Assisting Chairman PAUL E. CARROLL '48 were PATRICK F. KANE '60, TERRANCE P. SHEA '57 and RICHARD E. LEOUS '50. Consulting di­rector was President Weber. 
JAMES J. DUNNIGAN '34 president of the Buffalo Raceway, Hamburg, N.Y., received the Buffalo Club's "Man of the Year" award for 19G4. 
Mrs. PAUL D. BALLING, Alum-wives presi­dent, presented the club tvith a most welcome $300.00 check. 
CHARLES M. CALLAHAN '38, Notre Dame sports publicity director, was great as guest speaker. —JAMES F. CASEY '44, Corresponding Secy. 

Calumet Region 
JOHNNY DEE, newly named basketball coacli 
of Notre Dame, made his first public appearance 
as an Irish employe Marcli 30 and told Calumet 
Region Irish fans he hopes to construct a team 
that will interest Irish fans again. 
*'Back when I was playing at Notre Dame," he 
said, "we used to have 150 or more fans from 
the Calumet come to evcr>' one of our home games. 
And when %ve played in Chicago a lot more showed 
up. I hope Notre Dame soon will have a team 
that again will interest you folks." 
He was addressing members of the Notre Dame 
Club of tlic Calumet Region at Phil Smidt & Son 
Restaurant in Robertsdalc. The program w*as one 
of many held throughout the country on Universal 
Nctre Dame Night. 
CLARENCE {CHICK) BADER, Gar>- building materials retailer, received the annual Notre Dame Man of the Year Award. 
The Club's annual grants went to George Sen­ko, now a sophomore in the engineering scliool, where he's maintaining an .Vminus average. Sen­ko is a graduate of ^fcrrillville High School. Also receiving a grant \*'as Stephen Kurowski, a senior at Gary Lew ^Vallacc where lie's in the upper five per cent of his class. Kurowski plans to enter the school of commerce next fall. 
New oRicen of the club are: TONY KUHARICH of Hammond, president; ROBERT WELSH of Gary, vice-president; JAMES KINNANE of Whit­ing, treasurer; T. P. GALVIN JR. of Hammond, secretar>'. 
DAVE OGREN of Munstcr, JACK O'DROBI­NAK of Whiting and BEN DANKO of Whiting were elected to the board of directors. JOHN BARKER of Munstcr was elected special events cliainnan. 
The club's sports stag was held May 19, at St, Tliomas More Parish Hall. ND football coach Ara Parscghian was the main attraction. 

Central Florida 
The Notre Dame Club of Central Florida, at a meeting on Feb. 26, elected the following slate of new oRiccrs for the coming vear: President BOB PLEUS '57, Orlando; Vice-Pr'esidcnt jA.\fES 
J. MAHONEY '44, Oriando; Secretary- J. ROBERT SMYTH '55, Orlando; and Treasurer ^\'. DAVID HOLTHOUSE '58, Rockledge, Fla. 
Tlie Club held its first social event of the year, a St. Patrick's Day Party Mar. 17 at the home of President Bob Pleus. It was a joyful party and a good time u-as had by all. Tlie following mem­bers and wives were in attendance: Mr. & Mrs. BOB PLEUS, Mr. & Mrs. ROY LAUGHLIN, Mr. & Mrs. TOM McNAMARA, Mr. & Mrs. JOE Mc-NAMARA, Mr. & Mrs. DON SMYTH, Mr. 5: Mrs. DAVE HOLTHOUSE, BILL RICKE and BOB SMYTH. 
—BOB SMYTH, Sec>-. 


Central New Jersey 
WILLIAM RICHARDSON SR. of Piscataway, N.J., has been elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Central New Jersey. 
He succeeds TOM KINNEALLY of Middlcbush, 
who assumes a post on the Club's board of di­
rectors. ^ 
A 1955 graduate of Notre Dame, Bill Richard-' 
son is president of Raritan Supply Co. of New 
Bruns\Wck. He is also president of the Raritan 
Valley Chspter, Society for the Ad%*anccmcnt of 
Management. 
Bill is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Harr>- A. 
Richardson of New Brunswick. He scr\'ed in the 
AIT Force as an officer following his graduation 
from the College of Commerce at Notre Dame. 
He is married to the former Mary Fitzpatrick 
of Oak Park, III. They have three children: Bill 
Jr., 5; Kathleen, 2, and Anne, 3 months. 
Other Alumni Club officers include WALTER 
KAVANAUGH of Somcr\-ille, vice-president; BILL 
MULLER of Rahway, sccrctar>-; and JACK MUL­
LEN of Pluckemcn, treasurer. 
The Central Jersey Club held its annual Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night Dance Saturday, April^ 
25, at the Somervillc Inn, Somervillc, N.J. 
Club members will compete in the annual golf 
tournament June 18 or 25 at Colonia Country 
Club, Colonia, N.J. 
September 9 Is the date for the Club's annual 
Freshman SendofT. JERRY TOOMEY and NORRIS 
HARDING will handle arrangements. 
Tlie Notre Dame-Na\-y football game in Phila­
delphia Oct. 31 has been selected for the Club's 
annual bus trip. Ticket sales will be handled by 
JERRY TOOMEY and JOHN "LEFTY" LISICKY. 
Other arrangements will be supcrx^cd by former 
president Tom Kinncally. 
Tlie Club's Communion Breakfast will be held 
Sunday, Dec 13. Other details will be announced 
later. 
—DICK CONNELLY, publicity diairman^^ 


Chicago 
Well, for the coming year the author of this column can speak with some degree of authority, since ART CONRrVD turned over the gavel to me at UND Night on April 13. Since we have approximately 3,500 alumni in the Chicago area — more than 10 per cent of all ND alumni — tlie Notre Dame Club of Chicago plays an in­creasingly important role in the life of the Uni­versity, only about 90 miles to the East. 
First, I would like to salute Art Conrad, who continued to improve member participation in all club activities during his administration. Art put in countless hours organizing tlic many events andwj committees . . . meeting each crisis with cool ef-^ ficienc>* . . . and bringing everything to a climax by persuading HOWARD PHALIN to scr\-e as cliainnan of UND Night. Howard, who is one of the busiest men in Chicago, presented one of the best menus and programs in the history of the event. We doff our hats to the Conrad-Phalin duo for a great party. Incidentally, I would like to thank the other four presidents with whom had the privilege of '^learning the ropes" — PHIL FACCENDA, GEORGE MENARD, JOE PAG­LURI and JACK BARRY. 
Nearly 700 ND alumni and friends turned out for UND Night in the grand ballroom of the-Palmer House as ARA PARSEGHEAN made his first Windy City appearance as head coach of the 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
'« 
Fisliting Irish. Take it from the guy who was 
sitting next to the coach, when the waiters paraded A^^into the spotlight with the ^iant letters that "-'spelled out "ND Welcomes Ara" it \*"as an electri­
fying moment in his memory-studded career. 

As Ara told the audience, he would not have accepted the ND coaching position if he did not think that he could accomplish the mission. This is one dedicated coach! As Howard Phalin was checking graduation dates with those at the head table, I jokingly asked Ara his graduation year from Notre Dame. He replied: **I expect to leave ^^otre Dame about 19841 To show the confidence I have in my stafT and Notre Dame football, I'm not renting or bu>-ing a house; I'm building one!" An annual highlight of UND Night is the an­nouncement of the "Man of the Year." The 1964 ^yvinncr was PHIL FACCENDA, who as the sports­' writers say about superstars, has done ever^'thing for Chicago and Notre Dame but sweep the club office. He is a past president of the Club, ser\-ed for three years during Challenge I as general ap­peal chairman, and now is the first Chicago alum­nus in several decades to head the National xMum­nt Association. Phil has alu'ays been the type of fellow to step in and help out when someone 
needed :iS5istancc, and he continues to lend a 
guiding hand to this Club. It was my pleasure to present the "Man of tlie Year" award to a real ^D man and a good friend. 
The Club*s "Decency in Entertainment" award, which continues to gain stature within the show A business world, went to one of the country's top ^ humorists — Bob Newhart. The man with the "button down humor" proceeded to turn the rip­ples of laughter into a torrent of applause that called him back for an encore. When a comedian can conMilse a coach with a monologue about effigies, then he's really in gear. Ara led the cheers for the Chicago-born comedian as he ex­plained how a company msnuiactunng effigies had "to anticipate the demand by following positive administration statements on the sports pages." On behalf of the Club's officers, I would like to extend sincere thanks to the following board members who have completed their terms. Cited at our annual Testimonial Dinner at the Illinois Athletic Club on April 28 were JACK BARRY *43, DICK BURKE '55, PAUL a\RROLL '63, JOHN FOGARTV '49, JIM MALOOLY '55, JOE 
j^MERRION '20, ED MIESZOWSKI '46, FRANK PMURNANE M9, and KEN SCHUSTER '49. 
The new officers and board members also made tlieir debut at this dinner. This year's honorary president Is ELMER LAVDEX »25, one of the legendary Four Horsemen, ^vho is a sales execu­tive now with General American Transportation Corp. PAT SHANNON *48, our first vice-president, is an attorney and CPA. BILL REYNOLDS '54, the second vice-president, is vice-president of In­dependent Construction Co. PAT MONTROY '53, the secretary*, is a sales representative for MCA Sign Co. Our pencil-sharpening treasurer is CHUCK FALKENBERG *52, who did a great job during the past year. I earn my bread and butter as assistant to the president of llie Selz Organuation, which we think is the best public relations agency in the country! 
Starting their terms on the board are NORRIS BISHTON '57, an attorney; NICHOLAS BOHL­ING '31, alderman of Chicago's 7th \Vard; JIM DOXOGHUE '40, \ice-presldent of sales for A. 
G. Becker & Co.; JIM HAGGERTY '52, vice-president of James D. Haggcrty & Co., mortgage brokers; JOHN LATTNER '54, the city's most famous restaurateur; GEORGE MARCUCCI '41, sales manager of Gold Cup Baking Co.; WALT ROGERS '44, president of Crown Stove Works; JOHN KELEHER '47, attorney; and GEORGE SCHIE^VE '42; sales and promotion executive, Roy Strom, Inc., refuse en^necrs. ED DUNN '&i, who has done a bang-up job as president of the Chicago Club on campus this past year, will be an cx-officio member of the Board for the next year. 
MSGR. DANIEL F. CUNNINGHAM, former superintendent of Catholic schools and currently pastor of St. Angela's parish. Is our new chaplain. He succeeds FR. JOHN V/VN ^VOLVLEAR CSC, ivho has become a familiar figure at club ac­tivities the past several years. AH of us u-ant to thank Father Van for his help and we hope he continues to remain a part of the organization. 
While on the subject of service to the Club, I would like to pause a moment to remember JOSEPH J. SULLIV^VN '02, who died just a week or so before his cherished Universal Noire Dame Night. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago owes an enormous debt of gratitude to Joe Sullivan, who helped start this Club in 1908. Mr. Sullivan ser\'ed as president in 1911, and then again In J928. He also was instrumental In the reorganiza­tion of the National Alumni ^Vssociation in 1908. In 1921 he was elected president of the Alumni fVssocIatlon. The many friends of Joseph SulIIv'an will remember him as one of the bulwarks of ND alumni activity on all levels. 
Remember, the next club activity is the annual golf outing and sports night dinner. As usual, the full day's activity will be held at Elmhurst Coun­try Club. The date this year Is Monday, Aug. 3. ^fark that down on your calendar right now and get the gang together. 
Also, make sure that you get those football tickets for the big home season at South Bend, This just might be the year that the Fighting Irish start up the comeback trail. 
—PAUL FULLMER '55, Pres, 


Cincinnati 

The University of Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation of Greater Cincinnati held a cocktail-dlnner party on Wednesday, 26 Feb. 6i with EDWARD 
W. (MOOSE) KRAUSE as prindpal speaker. The affair ^vas a stag event and drc»v a large crowd of 103 men. BILL GRAPE was chairman im did a tremendous job. This is the largest tun out that the Cincinnati Club has ever had fo such an occasion. 
The Cincinnati Club is now looking forward t the spring and summer events, which arc headei by TOM ISPHORDING's spring dinner dance am HOWARD ROHAN'S directorship of the 5th An nual Notre Dame Golf Tournament. 
—PAUL F. KELLEV '54, Secy 



Cleveland 
The 4Ist Annual Universal Notre Dame Nigh was held Sunday, April 5, at the Hotel Sheraton Cleveland, and present were five hundred member and guests. 
At the Speaker's table were FRANK NOVAK, treasurer; JOHN P. COYNE, permanent secretary; RICHARD H. MILLER, vice-president and chair­man of the Universal Notre Dame Night; REV, LOUIS J. THORNTON CSC, who spoke an bebalJ of the Uni%'enlty; U. S. Senator from the State of Maine Edmtmd S. Muskie, guest speaker; JIM CROWLEY, toastmaster; JOSEPH E. SOTAK JR., president; DON C. MILLER, 1963 Man of the Year; REV. BERNARD BLATT, chaplain; and DENNIS BUTLER, secretary. 
The Man of the Year Award was presented to FRANCIS X. CULL, graduate of the Class of 1908, by Don Miller. Mr. Cull was co-founder of the Cleveland Club and active for many years in its functions. He is nationally kno^vn as a speclalbt in insurance law. 
Benediction was given by the Rt. Reverend MSGR. SEWARD, a Notre Dame graduate who celebrated his 25th Anniversary in the priesthood this year. 
Chairman Dick Miller extends his personal thanks to all members who attended this year's Universal Notre Dame Night. 
—JOHN P. COYNE Secy. 

Columbus 
On Dec. 8, 1963, members of the Notre Dame Club of Columbus and their families attended 9 o'clock Mass at St. Joseph's Cathedral in Co­lumbus, Ohio. The sermon was delivered by the Most Rev. Clarence Issenmann, Bishop of Co­lumbus. Mter ]Vfass twenty members and their families attended a Communion Breakfast at the Christopher Inn. ROGER ZOELLNER '53, chair­man of the event, introduced Bill Horn, local di­rector of the Christian Family Movement, who spoke on the aims and growing accomplishments of CFM In our area. Among others in attendance were the families of JOHN IGOE '28, WILLIAM KLEE '51, DR. JOSEPH HUGHES '31, JOHNNY JOHNSON '44, ROBERT KOSYDAR '53, WALT KRISTOFF '41, ERNIE KLETZLY '57, JOHN MURPHY '28. JIM MURRAY '58, DR. BOB MURNANE '43. AL RITCHER '51, DON ROTH. ERMICH '63, ART ULRICH '48, JACK DILEN­

CHICAGO—^Nearly 700 turned out in April at the Palmer House for Chicago's annual observance of UND Night. At rights 
among speakers' table guests were (K-r.) Bishop Loras Lane of Rockford, Fr. John Walsh, CSC, Chairman Howard Phalin, Man of 
the Year Phil Facccnda, Pres. Paul Fulhner, Decency in Entertainment award winner Bob Newhart, immediate East Pres. Art 
Conrad and Head Football Coach Ara Parseghian. The new president presented a mounted gavel to his predecessor. 
I Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 2964 27 
SCHNEIDER '53« JACK LEE '54, and GERRY 
EISENMAN '63. 
On December 28, our perennial Christmas Dance 
chwnnan JOHNNY JOHNSON '44 once again ran 
m record breaking dinner dance at the Brookside 
Country Club. The 136 alumni, students, and 
friends of Notre Dame who attended began the 
fcstinties u-itb dinner at 7 p.m., and after as­
sorted fox trots, twists and conga lines (led by 
Twiokletoes Johnson himself) ended the evening 
about 1 a.m. by singing the Victory March. John­
son, who this year also served as club treasurer, 
ran the e\*ent in the black for the second suc­
cessive year. 
MOOSE KRAUSE and JIM COONEY of Notre 
Dame stopped off in Columbus on February 25, 
and after Moose spent the day in the glare of 
television lights fielding questions from sports­
writers, he spoke to 60 alumni assembled at the 
Columbus Athletic Club about Challenge II. Bob 
Kosydar and John Igoc dcserv*e considerable thanks 
for arranging the meeting, the accommodations, in­
terviews and transportation for Moose. 
Tliirty-six top scholars from Columbus high 
schools applied this year for the six av-ailable all­
eiqiense four-year scholarships to Notre Dame 
knoMii as the Joyce Scholarships. Intervieivs were 
conducted in early March under the direction 
of Co-chairmen Jack Dilcnschn eider and Bob 
Kosydar. On the staff of alumni interviewers were 
MK E CANTWELL '58. FRANK BETTENDORF 
'59. TOM ROCHE '39, MIKE SCANLON '54, 
BOB KOLOPUS '58, JOHN DEBITETTO '41, 
BOB ECHENRODE '48, FRANK BIGGERT '50, 
ED MORIARTY '28, JACK GORDON '42, and 
"BUD" MURPHY '33. The six scholarship winners 
were notified in mid-April. ^Vc now have 15 bo>-s 
from the Columbus area on the all-expense (room, 
board, books, tuition, and transportation) scholar­
ships at Notre Dame. 
On March 19, 1964 club members once again as­
sembled at the Columbus Atliletic Club to elect 
the following officers for the coming year. President 
ROGER ZOELLNER '53, Vice-President BOB 
OVERMAN '60, Secretary MIKE HOFFMAN '55, 
and Treasurer TOM IGEL JR. '56, Three mem­
bers were elected to the Board of Directors; thcv 
are JAMES HUGHES JR., BOB KOSYDAR and 
JOHN E. JOHNSON '44. They will be joined on 
the Board by retiring president JACK DILEN­
SCHNEIDER '53. Officers were all installed on 
Universal Notre Dame Night held this year at the 
King's Inn in Columbus on April 8. Master of 
ceremonies for the event was JOHN IGOE *28 
and our principal speaker was FR. EDMUND P. 
JOYCE CSC, executive vice-president of Notre 
Dame. The **Man of the Year" for 1954 was 
RICHARD KA5BERG '48, former president of the 
Club w*ho has been continually active in the 
promotion of Notre Dame and Club events in our 
area. 
—JACK DILENSCHNEIDER '53, ReUring Pres. 



G>nnecflcuf Valley 
The Club had the pleasure of welcoming MOOSE KRAUSE to Hartford as he made the second stop on his first swing through the East in connection with the Challenge II campaign. Moose addressed one of the club's largest and most enthusiastic gatherings in recent months explaining the aims of Challenge II and enlisting the club's coopera­tion. He was accompanied by JIM COONEY of the Foundation, who also addressed the club. Well remembered in Connecticut during his coaching days at nearby Holy Cross College, Krause was shepherded around Connecticut's capital city dur­ing his one-day stand by Club President BOB McGOLDRICK and received considerable exposure on local television programs and in the newspapers. 
Well over 200 alumni, their wives and friends turned out for Connecticut's annual Universal Notre Dame Night obsci^-ance on April II. REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC, president of the University, was principal speaker at the dinner. 
Guests at the head tabic included Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph R. Lac>-, chancellor of the Arch­diocese of Hartford, representing Arclibishop Henr>' 
J. O'Brien; Very Rev. James Fitzgerald SJ, presi­dent of Fairfield University; and Sister Marie Louise OP, president of Albcrtus Magnus College. 
On the following day. Father Hesburgh was the guest of President McGoIdrick and the Club at a breakfast attended by business and community leaders of the Hartford area. Father Hesburgh was welcomed to the city by Mayor William Glynn. 
The club bestowed its Man of the Year award on FLOYD F. RICHARDS '42, well known local radio and television personality and a member of the faculty at the University of Hartford. 
—DON FOSKETT, Secj-. 

28 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
CXEVELAND—^Universal Notre Dame N^ t prindpals included (t-r.) Chaiiman-Vccp Richard H. MlUcr, Toastmaster Jim Gnnvlcy, 1964 ND Man of the Year Francis X. Cull, 1963 Man of the Year Don Miller and Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine, speaker. 

Dallas 
On Dec. 8th the Notre Dame Club of Dallas 
held its annual Communion Breakfast. After at­
tending 8:15 Mass at Holy Trinity', the group 
had an enjoyable breakfast at Lucas B and B 
Restaurant. Mr. Claiborne Johnson was the guest 
speaker and he gave an excellent presentation on 
the newly formed Catholic Foundation. The Club 
certainly appreciated Mr. Johnson's talk. The 
Christmas Dance was given on Friday, December 27 
at the beautiful Cabana Motor Hotel of Dallas. 
Projected for spring was the Universal Notre 
Dame Banquet. (Details next issue.) 
We hope that any alumni or friends of Notre Dame living in the Dallas area %vill contact us so that we can place their names on the mailing list. Drop me a note giving me your home address and home phone number (30^ Townscnd Dr., Dallas 29, Texas). ^Ve are sure you will enjoy our Club's functions and we hope to see you soon. 
—GE.\E KERVIN, Secy. 


Dayton 
FR. JOHN REEDY CSC, editor of Ave Maria magazine, was the speaker for the Dayton Club's 1964 Universal Notre Dame Night. His remarks to us after the dinner were greatly appreciated by all of the members. We regard ourselves as being very fortunate in having him as our speaker this year. 
—PATRICK J. FOLEY. Pres. 


Dearborn 
The guests were grateful to chairman JERRY GASS and co-cliairman BILL DOSSMAN for a well planned and successful Christmas season dinner dance held in January at the Hillside Inn. The at­mosphere can best be described as colonial, with gas lamps and natural fireplace, a fit setting for the excellent food served. JOE BYRNE and BILL DE CRICK were chairmen of an event which started with the Notre Dame-U. of Detroit basket­ball game and ended with dancing and a snack at the Detroit Yacht Club. 
The Club had a lively turnout for a St. Patrick Day Smorgasbord Dinner at the Warren Valley Country Club. CHARLIE KITZ and GEORGE TOBIN were chairmen of the event which featured tap beer, movies, and cards in addition to the dinner. The club elected officers for the 1964-5 term and they were announced at this event. The new officers are President JOE BYRNE, Vice-President RAY DEFAmV, and Secretary-Treasurer CHARLIE KITZ. Tlie following three members were elected to the Board of Directors: GEORGE BALL, JOHN FISH, JR., and JERRY SARB. 
April-May events included meetings at the homes 
of BILL DE CRICK in Harper Woods and BILL 
DOSMANN in Inkster and a Family Communion 
Breakfast at St. Bernadette's Church in Dearborn 
May 17. 
—RAY DEFAUW, Vice-Pres. 


Decatur | 
JOHN FOY covered our 19S4 organization meet­
ing with BUZZ MORAN, JERRY McNAMARA, 
NICK NEIERS and S. G. GRALIKER. A four-
event calendar interspersed with fourth Wednes­
day luncheons. Mr. Moran chaired Universal 
Notre Dame Night, April 16th. The exceptional 
attendance e\inced deep appreciation of the Io>-aItv 
of our speaker, HUGH M. DEVORE. The appre­
ciation was reciprocated with clair\'oyant wit con­
cerning Notre Dame athletics by the two-term head 
football coach, now MOOSE KRAUSE's assistant 
athletic director. 
—STEPHEN G. GRALIKER '42, Secy. 


Delaware 
On January 14, 1964, the Club held a lunclieon % at The Embers Restaurant in Wilmington. Those in attendance were CHARLIE WOLFE, BOB DALEY, ART DI SAB.\TINO, ALEX PETRILLO, DENNY PETRILLO, JI.M VACHRIS, DICK HAIRSINE, JACK Mc VEIGH, FR.\N LUTZ, STAN KISIELEWSKI, KEN KING, BILL BAILEY, ALFRED SNIADOWSKI and MARTIN WILEY. The newly elected officers for I9G4-65 are ART DI SABATINO, president; BILL BAILEY, vice-president; DENNY PETRILLO, secretary-treasurer. The Club is planning to have an active year in 'W both in the continuing of current activities and the renewal of those activities ^vhich were successful in past years. Plans have been un­der way for Universal Notre Dame Night, 1964, and the renewal of the summer picnic at ED ^ DILLON'S estate under the co-chairmanship of CHARLIE WOLFE and MARTIN ^VILEY. Alumni members in the area, including Salem County, New Jersey, Chester County, Pennsylvania, and the Elkton-Northeast Maryland area, who arc not re­ceiving our mail and who desire to be notified of Club activities are requested to contact one of the officers. 

Denver 
REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, president of the University, was UND Night speaker to Denver area alumni at a dinner at the Brown Palace on April 4. 
At the event the annual Denver Notre Dame 
Club scholarship was awarded to a Colorado high school senior^ and new officers of the Denver Notre Dame Club were installed. 
Officers elected for 1963 ^ are JAMES HILGER, president; PATRICK McMAHON, vice-president; KEN ADAMSON, secretary; and CHARLES BAIER, treasurer. 
JAMES COUGHLIN was chairman. 

Des Moines 
On January 12, 1964, the Notre Dame Club of Des Moines held its annual Communion Break­fast. Guest speaker was Mr. Theodore Boesen, prominent Des Moines businessman and Catholic layman. Newly elected officers are as folIov%*s: JOSEPH JOYCE, president; ANTHONY CRITEL­LI, vice-president; JOSEPH BISIGNANO, sccre­
^ , tar>-; and CLEM SCHNOEBELEN, treasurer. Other 
' alumni present were: JAMES BOESEN, ROBERT CANNON, BEN CONDON, JACK DREY, JAMES DINNEN, ROBERT DUFFY, PAUL EIDE, HAROLD KLEIN, DR. EDWARD POSNER JR., JAMES SHAW, JOSEPH WHALEN, and iL\R­CELLUS WONDERLIN. 
On Saturday, February 29, 1964 the Notre Dame Club of Des Nfoincs sponsored a day of recollec­tion for all Catholics in the Des Moines area. The conferences, followed by Mass, were held at Dowling High School in Des Moines. 
—JOSEPH BISIGNANO, Sec>-. 

Detroit 
W On April 29, 1964, the 41st Annual Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\'ed in Detroit at the Latin Quarter, following the annual business meet­ing at the UnKersity Club. 
This year we were fortunate in having a ver>' outstanding program. Our principal speaker was ' Mr. O. C. CARMICHAEL, JR., chairman of the Board of Associates Investment Company and a member of the lay Board of Trustees of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. Vfc were also pleased to have as our honored guest REV. JOHN E. WALSH, CSC, a \-ice-pre5ident of the University. The program was preceded by cocktails and dinner. Chairmen were JOHN W. ANHUT and JOSEPH 
H. CAREY. 
Eastern Illinois 
m The ND Club of Eastern III. met the first week 
' of April to obser\-c Universal ND Night. Guests were local ND students home for Easter and their parents. The address was given by FR. WILLIAMS of Rantoul. Officers elected for the coming year are LES FAHEY '42, pres.; TOM JACOBS *57, vice-prcs.; DICK MILES '58, secy.; JIM WIL­LIAMS *58, trcas. 
—T. A. JACOBS, Retiring Scc>-. 

Erie 
The Notre Dame Alumni group of Erie, Pa., met Thursday, April 16, 1964, for their annual Universal Notre Dame Night. The event proved to be a most enjoyable evening for all. FR. CASIMIR MURAWSKI of the . Divine Word Seminary gave 
P the benediction. The guest speaker for the affair was CHARLIE CALLAHAN- Charlie gave us an inspiring talk on the sports publicity aspect of athletics at Notre Dame. He also showed us the highlights of the 1963 football campaign. .Among those who attended were: Messrs. & Mmcs. ROBERT BARBER '40, JOSEPH BARBER '36, THOMAS BATES '60, LEO BRUGGER '3t, FRANK REILLY Hon. '59, PHILIP EHRMAN Hon. 'SI, JOHN LOCHTEFELD '55, HOWARD ESSICK '41, THOMAS GALLAGHER '55, WIL­LIAM GRANT '45, JOHN McCORMICK Hon. '17, JOHN McCORMICK Jr. '53, RICHARD Mc-COR\HCK '55, JOSEPH STADLER '53, LAW­RENCE STADLER '29, ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI 
• '52, and Tony's eldest son John. Also Messrs. & Mmcs. LOU SHIOLENO '49, HOOT SCULLY Hon. '53, LEO BRUGGER, JR. '61, TIMOTHY McCORMICK '56, and ROBERT FARMER Hon. '37. Also FR. JOSEPH HIPP. Judge JAMES DWYER '37, JERRY EHRMAN *63, JIM GARVEY and JACK PALMISANO '55, MIKE McCORMICK '61, Dr. & Mrs. ELMER KOHLMILLER '49 and Dr. & Mrs. ROBERT ROCHE. 
JOSEPH BLAKE '61 ^^•as in Erie at Easter time; Joe is at present studying for the priesthood at Notre Dame. JIM SCHAAF '59 was in Erie re­cently but couldn't stay long because of the be­ginning of the baseball season. Jim is the traveling secretary for the Kansas City Athletics. Mr. and Mrs. Scully are enjoying their new addition to the 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY — Above, Floyd F. Richards '42 receives the Hart­ford area ND Man of the Year Award from Club Pres. Bob McGoldrick with Father Hesburgh's congratulations. Below, Hart­ford's John (Clipper) Smith (left), Rock­nc's Ail-American guard of '27, huddles with ND visitor Moose Krause and Pres­ident McGoldrick at Conn. Valley Club dinner. 
family. This is the thirteenth child. There are eight boys and five girls, so there is never a dull moment around Hoot's house. PAT McCORMICK '&• was looking forward t6 graduation in June. John Lochtefcid had his works on display at the Erie Art ^fuseum recently. John is at present busy teaching art at Merc>-hurst College here in Erie. The John '53, Rich '55, and Tim '57, McCortnick children arc looking forward to the end of the school year. It seems they are quite anxious to get to work in the construction business helping their dads and gramps vWth the paving. 
Jerry Ehrman gets home to Erie every once in a while for some good Iiomc cooking. Jerry is at present going to school in Pittsburgh. JIM EHR­MAN *6l was home for the Decoration Day week­end; Jim is married to the former Mary Ann Graf of Eric and they have a new addition to the family, Greg James, now about three months old. 
—JOHN McCOR^^CK 

Fort Lauderdale 
The Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., has gotten ofT to a flying start this year under the leadership of its new officers and Board of Direc­tors. At the first business meeting of the year, held on Jan. 9, DON DORINI '53 turned the club gavel over to BOB AfcDONOUGH '52 and this year's business began. Bob then introduced the re­maining new officers and directors for this year: BILL MOTSETT '34, vice-president; GEORGE PATTERSON L-'58, secretary; TOM WALKER '42, treasurer; and Directors BOB GORE '31, DON DORINI '53, FRANK McDONOUGH '41, CHAR­LIE QUINN '34 and JOHN McGINN '54. Bob then presented an engraved plaque to Dorini, last year's president, as a token of appreciation from the dub for the fine Job which Don did. At this meeting we also saw the filmed highlights of 1963 Fighting Irish football year, being one of the first clubs in the counlr>' to view the film. We were especially pleased with the showing made by FRANK BUDKA '&4, who is the son of WAL­TER BUDKA of our dub. The first mcctias brought a fine turnout of our members indud-Ing GEORGE McFADDEN, TOM NOLAN '44, PETE BARK5IS, JOE GORE '42 and TOM MAUS '57. We were also proud to have as our guests for that first meeting GEORGE IZO '60 and MK E LIND '62, both of whom were in the Fort Lauderdale area vacationing. Both George and Mike spoke to us briefly on th rigors of the NFL and told us that Notre Dame's reputation in the NFL had certainly opened many doors to them. That was certainly good to hear. 
On February 13, we held our annual St. Val­entine's open meeting. The members and their wives were invited and the club provided party favors for all. There were over fifty persons in at­tendance to hear an extremely interesting program arranged for the dub by FRANK McDONOUGH '41. Among those members enjoying the fun were Jane and BILL MAUS '53, Betty and FRANK McGINN '52, Rosemary and HUGH MALONEY, Dolly and TO.M WALKER '42, Jeane and DON DORINI '53, Marilyn and BOB McDONOUGH *52 and Marge and FRANK IhtcDONOUGH '4L 
The next event sponsored by the Club was our annual St. Patrick's Day dinner-dance. This event was also well attended and was held on Nfarch 17, in the grand Ballroom of the Governor's Club Hotel in Fort Lauderdale. Art Mooney's national­ly known orchestra provided the dance music for about 130 couples, and of course there were the traditional pitchers of green beer conveniently lo­cated on tables throughout the ballroom. The real success of the dance was the result of the hard work put in by BOB MdX)NOUGH '52, who was the dance chairman. BOB GORE '31, BILL MOT­SEIT '34, DON DORINI '53, CHARLIE QUINN *34 and TOM WALKER '42, all of whom did such a fine job selling tickets and doing the many things necessary to make a success of such an oc­casion. The fine cooperation of JOE GORE '42 in making available to us all of the facilities of the Governor's Club Hotel was also a great help. The Club was also assisted through the excellent pub­lidty given by the Fort Lauderdale News. 
On April 24, 25 and 26, in conjunction with the Notre ,Pame Clubs of Miami and Palm Beach, we held our Second Annual International Convention at the Lucayan Beach Hotel in Freeport^ Grand Bahama Island. Approximately 300 Notre Damczs, their wives and guests partook of this wonderful weekend of sunnin', swimmjn', fishin' and golfin*; and again as last year fish fries, golf and fishing tournaments, island dandng and entertainment were the order of the convention. Our Universal Notre Dame Night was held there, and we cde­brated with an daborate banquet on Saturday night. We also announced there our Aimual Man of the Year Award, which this year we presented to Gov. R. H. GORE, SR. We were proud to pre­sent the award to Governor Gore for he has been a real inspiration to our dub and an outstanding business and dvic leader in Fort Lauderdale for many years. BILL MAUS '53 and DON DORINI '53 took charge of our dub's participation in the convention and deserve a sincere vote of thanks from all of us for the very fine job which they did. Of course we golfers must also thank JIM 
• DOWNEY '43 of the Palm Beach dub, who took charge of the golf outing, and the "fishers" owe the same thanks to our own FRANK McGINN '52 who made all of the fishing arrangements. The man­agement of the Lucayan Beach Hotel saw to it that things were just as' we wanted them and added immeasurably to the enjoyment of everything. By the way, if you are looking for a place to take a restful, rdaxing and sunny vacation away from it all, we recommend Freeport highly. TTiose who made the trip to the Bahamas are already talking about next year and plan to make their reserva­tions early. 
You will be interested to know that our dub has recently become vitally interested in state poli­tics with one of our members, JOHN McGINN '54, now very much in the running for a scat in our state legislature. We are all proud of John, and the slogan "Win With McGinn" is one we heartily endorse. 
That is about all of the news from Fort Lauder­dale for now. Please look us up when you are in our fair dty next. The w-elcome mat is always out to any of the Notre Dame family visiting in Fort Lauderdale. 
-GEORGE PATTERSON L.'58, Secy. 

Fort Wayne 
New officers of the N.D. dub of Fort Wayne are as fdlows: JERRY HIPSKIND, President; BILL FAGAN, vice-president; TRAVERS McDON-ALD, secretary; and CHARLES COLUGAN, treasurer. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 29 
Plans were under way early lo insure a nice turn­
out for UND night and HUGHIE DEVORE on 
April 23. Next issue there uill be a report of that 
event as well as the recipient of the ND Man of the 
Year award. 
—JERRY fflPSKIND, Pres. 

Fox River Valley 
The Fox River Valley Notre Dame Club held a Communion Breakfast for alumni and their families on Sunday, December 8. Members present included the following: DICK STACK '48, JOHN CHRIST­MAN M2, FRED CHRISTMAN '43; TOM FRAAV­LEY, GUS ZUEHLKE '43, PAT COUGHLIN '51, RUSS SKALL '50, A. G. GLOUDEMANS, '37, Dr. PHILIP McCANNA '41, MIKE HAVERTY '59, and JIM SIDDALL, *3G. President BOB SIMKINS '56 served as master of ceremonies. 
Universal Notre Dame Night for the Fox River Valley ND Club was held on April 20 in Applelon. Over fifty people attended the dinner and program. JOHN F. LAUGHLIN, managing editor of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, was the guest speaker. Special guests included MSGR. GRILL, and future ND freshmen ROCKY BLEIER, RON BIXBY, MIKE KUNDERT, and JERRY SELDJEN, BOB SIMKINS '56, president of tlie Club, was again in charge of arrangements. 
—GRAHAM A. WERNER '61, Srcj-.-Treas. 

Grant County, Ind. 
A meeting of officers was held on Wednesday, 
Jan. 22, 1964. The topic of discussion centered 
around Universal Notre Dame Night (Man-of-the-
Year Award). A number of suggestions were made 
but it was felt that the ideas should be shared 
-with the entire membership. 
Therefore, a meeting for all Notre Dame Alumni 
was scheduled for \Vednesday, Feb. 5. The place was 
GENE CAMPANALE'S house, and Joining in tlie 
discussion besides President Campanale were BILL 
BAPST , DICK QUILLIN and MIKE KILEY. 
The sequel of this meeting wiU be reported next 
Hawaii 
HARVEY LUNG '53 of Alfred A. Yce and Asso­
ciates was elected president at the Notre Dame 
Club of Hawaii's annual election of officers and di­
rectors held January 4 at the Kula Avenue home 
of GEORGE AKI PANG. 
Tlie other officers elected were: VALENTINE 
CHUN '54, vice-president; RICHARD MURATA 
'57, treasurer; and FELDC A. MACISZEWSKI Lau­
'62, secretary. Elected to two-year terms as directors 
were DANIEL Y. WONG and ALBERT LUM '57, 
and to a single-vear term, NOEL E. DAY, '60. 
Holdover directors are: THOMAS K. FLYNN '35, 
WILLIAM K. HANIFIN '33, and DONALD 
MACHADO '49. 
The Notre Dame Club of Hawaii celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on March 30 at the Padfic Club in Honolulu. A record number of alumni, wives, and friends were treated to cock­tails, dinner, and entertainment. The highlight of the evening was an address by JAMES E. ARMSTRONG '25, the executive secretar>- of the Alumni Association, who gave an enlightening ac­count of Notre Dame's present accomplishments and future goals. We were indeed fortunate to have Mr. and Mrs. Armstrong share this ct*ening with us. 
As we all know, any successful event is the product of much hard work. Those most respon­sible for the success of our Universal Notre Dame Night were the foUo^ving: HARVEY LUNG '52, Club president; VALENTINE CHUN '54, Club vice-president; AL LUM '57, Club director; DICK MURATA '56, Club treasurer; and TOM FLYN'N '35, Club director. We are all indebted to these men for the fine job they did. 
Besides being the date of our Universal Notre Dame Night, Monday, March 30, was a very im­portant date to t%vo of our Hau*aii alumni. TOM FLVNN '35 was selected to "Who's Who in Amer­ica," while DAVE DIAMOND '62 became the proud father of a baby boy. Congratulations! 
Congratulations are also in order for DICK MURATA *57, formerly with Allegheny Airlines in Washington^ D.C., who was recently named Head of the Revenue Accounting Section for Hawaiian Airlines in Honolulu, and his brother, ERNEST MURATA '57, who was just named comptroller at the HaM-ali National Bank. 
—FELIX MACISZEWSKI Law '62, Secy. 



Houston 
On Dec 8 the Houston Alumni Club held its annual Family Communion Breakfast at the Chapel of the Sisters of Incarnate Word. An excellent 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July^ 1964 
CALUMET REGION—Clarence W. Bader (in light suit) receives the congratulations of 
(l.-r-) retiring Pres. Dave Ogren, President-elect Anthony Kuharich and guest speaker John Dee, new basketball coach, at the annual UN D banquet in Hammond. At right (l.-r.) Vice-Pres. Robert J. Welsh Jr. congratulates Lew Wallace senior Steven Kurowski on ^\-inning the annual scholarship as Pres. Kuharich looks on. 
breakfast followed at Crow's Restaurant. Chairman 
of this event was BOB DILLON '48. 
Also in December a new slate of officers was 
elected: BOB DILLON, pres.; CHESTER BROUS­
SARD '59, vicc-prcs.; LEIGHTON YOUNG '59, 
trcas.; BILL SHARMAN '62, sco". 
The annual Christmas Dance was held the eve­
ning of Dec 27 at the beautiful new Hotel Amer­
ica. JOHN MADDEN '63 capably handled all the 
arrangements, assisted by Poppy Linbcck. The new 
officers were also announced at the dance. A Urge 
gathering of area alumni thoroughly enjoyed this 
event. 
A smoker was held in early February in the 
banquet room of Weldon's Cafeteria. Tlie program 
was informal, and a movie of the '63 football season 
was shouTi. Among those in attendance ivere 
GEORGE GIST JR. '55. TOMMY GREEN *27, 
PETER DOYLE '63 and LARRY KELLEY '42. 
A combined Foundation and UND Night Banquet 
was planned for May 26, at the River Oaks Coun­
try Club under the chairmanship of MIKE SHAN­
NON *59. The principal speaker was to be Head 
Football Coach Ara Parseghiaiu Details next time. 
All of the members of the ND Club of Houston wish to extend a note of thanks to the Club's Of­ficers of the last t\vo years: AL DECRANE '53, pres.; DA\'E MILLER '59, treas.; and RALPH SAUER *60, secy. They arc to be congratulated for the ^^'onderful job they have done for the Club. Congratulations are also in order for Al Decrane who made his legal debut before the US Supreme Court on Mar. 25 for Texaco Corp. 
—BILL SHARMAN '62, Secy. 

Indianapolis 
On Monday, March 30, the Indianapolis Club held the 4Ist annual obscn*ance of UNT) Night, and it was a rousing success. Nearly 400 alums and guests attended the affair held at the Indian­apolis Athletic Club under the chairmanship of BILL McGOWAN '57, \vho did an outstanding job. Bill arranged for new football coach ARA PAR­SEGHIAN to be on hand, and Ara convinced e\*er>'0nc that the football fortunes at school are definitely on the u'ay up, in a stirring talk in which he praised the spirit at ND and promised that ever\' effort would be made to "get the job done." 
Also on hand were Archbishop Schulte, Gov. Welsh, Mayor Barton, and the principals of all local Catholic high schools. The Man of the Year Award went to DR. PAUL MULLER '37, who was cited for outstanding contributions to the Cath­olic Church, as well as to civic and professional organizations. A list of Paul's accomplishments w*ould be too long to put in pnnt here, but his selection was richly deserv*ed. 
PAT FITZGERALD '52 announced that we had two scliolarship winners for the first time in his­tory. The $3,000 scholarship went to Robert J. Heineman of Connersville, the son of GEORGE HEINEMAN '30, and an honorary scholarship WTLS awarded to John D. O'Connor of Indianapolis, the son of JOHN C. O'CONNOR '38. 
Outgomg President JUDGE JACK RYAN '41 an­nounced the election of DR. TOM CARNEY '37 to 
succeed him as president of the Club. Tom, inci­dentally, also served as toastmaster of the evening and was recently elected a director of the National Alumni Association. Other officers named were DICK McNAMARA '54, vice-pres.; DICK OWENS '42, treas.; and JOE BILL '56, secy. New directors named were BILL MOONEY '57 and DR. JOE GORMLEY '49. 
—BILL STUHLDREHER '53, Secy. 

Jersey Shore 
The Jersey Shore Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night April 7 with a cocktail hour and dinner at the Shadowbrook Restaurant in Shrewsbury, N.J. FATHER JOYCE was the fea­tured speaker. No man of the year award was pre­sented this year. A 
Chairman of the event was PETER M. BEL­MONT. Members of his committee were: D.-WID 
A. DAHROUGE, JR., DR. JAMES F. DOUGH­ERTY, JR.. THO.MAS GILNLVRTIN, CHRISTO­PHER E. MALONE, WILLLAM F. NOONAX, DR. CHARLES F. PATERNO, JOSEPH P. RYAN, JAMES F. SILVER, JR., RICHARD H. TIERNX THOMAS V. VENTRO, EDWIN L. VOLL and JOHN B. WHITE. 
—BILL NOONAN '54, Seo*. 

Kansas City 
Our forty-first annual Universal Notre Dame 
Night was celebrated Thursday, April 2, In the 
Grand Ballroom of the Hotel President with a re- -^ 
ception and dinner. Q 
FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH, the Uni­versity president, was the featured guest and speaker. His informative and Inspirational theme, "Extending the Tradition of Great Teaching," pro­voked very favorable response from the large Notre Dame audience. Tlic chairman of the event was RUSSELL FARRELL. JOE STEWART was master of ceremonies. 
Tlie new officers are HAROLD SOLOMON '47, president; CHARLES O'NEILL '57, vice-president; a\R L ERFFMEYER '51, vice-president; MIKE HOG.AN '56, secretary; and TOM FLEMING '59, treasurer. To the conventional offices the Club has added the following designated assignments: TOM McGEE, roster cliaimian; LARRY LeROY, reli­gious chairman; BIL NOYES, freshman orientation; ^k SAM DiGIOVANNI, social chairman; JOHN ^ CALOVICH, official photographer; Rev. JOHN QUINN and Lt. Col. WILLIA.M McMULLEN, chaplains; and DICK PREZEBEL, Foundation chairman. The board of directors now consists of JIM HIGGINS, JOHN MASSMAN, ED AYL­WARD, RUSS FARRELL, BOB .METZLER, BEN O.^KES, ED REARDON, ROBERT PENDER­CAST, JOE VAN DYKE, TOM REARDON, VINCE DE COURSEY and honorary diairman JOE STEWART. 
The "Man of the Year" award, customarily a part of Universal Notre Dame Night, ^\'as pre­sented to MICHAEL J. GREENE '49, the manag­ing editor of the Catholic Reporter for the Diocese of Kansas City, Mo. Mike was given the award 
for his outstanding ser\'icc to community and Church. The presentation was made by JIM O HIGGINSf our retiring president. 
Ethel and SAM DiGIOVANNI ^vc^c co-chair­men of a ver>' successful spring dance held at the Terrace Room of the Ward Parkway Shopping Cen­ter on May I. 
Wc \%*ant to take this opportunity to pay tribute to JIM HIGGINS, our retiring president. Jim in his ofEccs of secretary*, vicc-p resident and president has worked diligently and effectively for the Club and University. Fortunately, Jim is on the board of directors and we know we can count on his continued help. 
—CARL B. ERFF.MEYER '51, Vice-Pres. 



Kentucky 

V Another year has rolled by, as measured by the annual exodus of speakers from campus to the vari­ous local obser\'ances of Universal Notre Dame Night. Tlie Notre Dame Club of Kentucky held its meeting March 30 at Wildwood Country Club, just outside Louisville. The guest speaker for the event was FR. JEROME WILSON CSC, vice-president for business affairs at the University. Father's talk on the tradition of great teaching (plus the latest hot news from campus) was en­joyed by a crowd of 130. 
The first, and most important, of a series of awards given during the evening was the Man-of­thc-Year presentation, made to WILLIAM REI­SERT, JR '30, a past president of the club and 

A long time club booster. Special recognition in the 
^^ form of a silver julip cup was given to BOB LEHMAN '64 for the outstanding example he has shown as a Catholic student, gentleman, and ath­lete. Lastly, a series of club service awards were given to the following persons who ser\'ed as chair­men of various events through the year: BILL ^VUETCHER '53, LEE STEIDEN *51, BILL DOUGHERTY '55, BOB HUETZ '58, ROG HUTER '-iO, and BILL SHERMAN '58. 
A new Club year means new officers, and the results of the elections held in March and an­nounced UND Nicht revealed the following new administration: BOB WILLENBRINK '49, pres.; BILL SHERNLVN '58, 1st vice-pres.; BOB HUETZ '58, 2nd vice-pres.; a\R L RATTERXL\N '37 and BUD WILLENBRINK '47, directors. Re-elected were JACK ZUFELT '57, secretary-, and JOE D'ANTONI, ireas. 

^ A large measure of credit for the success of UND Night belongs to RON MAZZOLI '54 and his com­mittee of fifteen — the rest goes to the alumni and friends who came out and gave such a warm wel­come to Fr. Wilson. 
Just one more thing before closing — THE big function of the summer, the ND-Xavier stag out­ing, will be coming up shortly. Watcli for it, don't miss it! Help ND maintain possession of that trophy supreme, the JUG! 
—JACK ZUFELT '57, Sec>-. 


La Crosse 
The ND Club of La Crosse, Wis., obser\ed UND Night in fine fashion this year with a reception 
DECATUR, ILL. — Principals (l.-r.) Steve Graliker, Hughie Devore and John Foy ex­change congratulations at the Decatur Club's gala Universal Notre Dame Night, House of Gabriel, April 16, 1964. 
and dinner at the Hotel Stoddard in downtown La Crosse. JOHN BRODERICK^ JR., ass't dean of the N*D Law School, and FR. ALBERT THOM­AS, head of the English department at Holy Cross Seminary in La Crosse, were guest speakers. JOE BECKER '50 was MC and FR. THO\L\S NINNEMAN *50 delivered the opening and closing invocations. The Club officers served on the com­mittee for this year's annual dinner. The commit­tee included: Pres. DUANE "BONES" HAMMES '5G, V.P. BILL ROTH '60, Seo*. JIM BEHME '58 and Trcas. BILL DOTTER\VEICH '58. 
Area members who attended the dinner in­
cluded: TOM JAEB, '56, PETE NINNEMAN '54 
and DR. PHIL UTZ '48. 
The success of the whole evening was largely 
due to the support given to the committee by all 
the Club members — ND Spirit in action. 
—JIM BEHME '58, Sec>-. 

Lansing 
On Sunday, March 15, the Rockne Communion Breakfast and Election of Board Members (the Board elects its own officers) was attended by fathers and sons. Mass was at 10:(X) a.m. with breakfast and elections immediately following. Mon­signor Slowcy was again the host at St. Vincent's Home. ERNIE HOUGHTON \%^ in charge of reservations. 
Following up Secretary JOHN POWERS' News­
letter, the Universal Notre Dame Night Commit­
tee completed arrangements for celebrating this 
annual event along with the more than 180 other 
alumni clubs throughout the world. 
At Archie TarpofTs Restaurant (scene of the 
monthly luncheons) on Saturday Night, April 18, 
19W, the Guest Speaker was JOHN BRODERICK, 
Ass't Dean of the ND Law School. 
The theme of the 41st Annual Universal Notre 
Dame Night was "Tradition of Great Teaching" 
and the speaker touched upon this and other items 
of interest to alumni and friends of Notre Dame. 

Lehigh Valley 
The Notre Dame Club .of the Lehigh Valley 
observed Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­
day on December 8, 1963. Rev. Daniel Mundy 
CM, academic vice-president of St. John's College, 
Brooklyn, N.Y., spoke on "Aspects of Federal Aid 
to Education." 
Over 50 alumni and friends attended Mass and received Ifoly Communion at the Immaculate Mar>­Seminar)' in Northampton, Pa. The Mass was also an Ordination Mass for one of the seminarians elevated to the priesthood. It uiis an enriching experience for all the Notre Dame alumni present. 
Our club held its annual Christmas Party on Saturday, December 28, 1963, at the Center Val­ley home of Dr. and >trs. LOUIS GABRIEL '35. Over 120 persons were in attendance including most of the area students and their dates. JIM ROW. LANDS '57 was chairman of events for the night. 
As usual sLx inches of snow fell two days before the event. However, alt those present experienced no difficulty except TOM MAGILL '55, whose motor vehicle refused to navigate on the slippery snow-covered terrain, while a dozen or more faith­ful, cozy comrades shouted moral support from within. 
Our next scheduled function was to be Universal Notre Dame Night. Details next time. -ER G SPINOSA '57, Pres. 

Long Beach 
Pres. FR/VNCIS H. CONATY '43 was one of five Southern California alumni club presidents in­volved in a joint celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night in Holl>-\vood on April 6, while the planning committee included two members from the Greater Long Beach Club, THOMAS COON.AN and THOMAS CREHAN '56. 

Los Angeles 
L.A. — specifically the Holl>nvood-Rooscvelt Hotel in Hollywood, Calif.—was the site of the Forty-First Annual Universal Notre Dame Night jointly spon­sored by the ND Clubs of Greater Long Beach, Los Angeles, Orange County, San Fernando Valley and San Gabriel Valley on April 6, 1964. 
MC of the event was veteran WALTER O'KEEFE. FR. ALBERT J. HEINZER CSC, di­rector of Family Theater, gave the blessing, and after the Pledge of Allegiance administered by national Alumni Assn. Director MORTON GOOD­MAN '30, guests were welcomed by General Chair­man BENJAMIN B. SALVATI '32 of the San Gabriel Valley Club. Speakers included Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph Sharpe, archdiocesan superintendent 
INDIANAPOLIS ~ Man of the Year Dr. Paul F. MuUcr '37 (left), aided by Qub President-National I^rcctor Dr. Thomas Carney '37 (right) shows his scroll to scholarship recipients John D. O'Ctmnor and Robert J. Heineman on Universal Notre Dame Night in Indianapolis. (Indian­apolis Star photos.) Below (L-r.) Bill Ken­nedy and Chairman Bill McGowan huddle with Ara Parscghian. 
of high schools and colleges; Thomas R. Sheridan, Assistant US attorney for Southern California; and JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, national secretary of the Alumni Assn., just back from Easter week in (fawait. Los Angeles Club President ROBERT L. GERVAIS '55 was in on the arrangements, as well as two representatives on the joint committee, ROBERT K. KELLEY 'U and WALTER SCHRADER '38. 


Maine 
Because of deadline this report must be sent just prior to the arri^-al of the University of Notre Dame Concert Band which will play at the Lewiston Higlr School Auditorium on Tuesday night, March 31. 
Wc here in Maine have only a small and scat­tered alumni group, but ' the concert is already assured success with 450 patrons rallying to the cause and helping make this concert for the benefit of the Notre Dame Scholarhip Fund a huge success. 
Ttie Band played in Maine three years ago, and I believe that Director BOB O'BRIEN and the band were very much impressed with the way they Were treated in this outpost in Maine. We expect to give them a second dose of Maine hospitality and there will be a reception for the band and special friends directly after the concert at the Musical Literary Clubhouse here in Lewiston. 
All the proceeds from this Band Concert are put into a Scholarship Fund which has, up to this time, sent seven boys help in the last seven years at $300 per year. Already we have begun to receive returned 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1964 31 
mone>-s and the fund u-ill indeed do its part to 
help worthy boys from tins area attend the Uni­
versity. 
We arc ven* pleased that GEORGE GOODWTNE, 
graduate of the Class of *59, located us here in 
Lewiston and will be on hand to attend the con­
cert. George is in the Na\y Air program and we 
can only hope that he stag's with us for a while to 
come. 
We arc mindful of the new Challenge H pro­
gram and trust that the alumni in our State, small 
as they are, will come through with a 100 per cent 
backing of this Challenge and give with the same 
enthusiasm they did in the first drive. Mindful as 
we are that the Challenge 11 drii'e is directed more 
to large outside gifts, we know that here in Maine 
we are limited to what we can do In this field 
and hope that our alumni will make up for It in 
what way they can by gifts of their own or possibly 
obtaining gifts from those friends of Notre Dame 
here in our State. 
With the summer com'ins on and Camp Scbaik 
being just a stone's throw from Lewiston, we hope that we will have some x-Isitors stop at Exit 13 on the Turnpike to visit Gelger Bros, and RAY GEIGER, secretary. We would like to point out also that Camp Sebatk is an excellent boys' camp, run by the Holy Cross Fathers, headed by FR. JOE HANNA CSC} who docs an exceptionally fine job with boj-s. There are still some \-acancJcs — so how about sending your boy to Maine this year. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Maine will ha\-e 
its outdoor family picnic at Camp Scbaik the lat­
ter part of August. 
—RAY GEIGER '32, Secy. 





Mansfield, Ohio 
BOB ENTRUP '49 handled all the arrangements 
for Notre Dame Communion Sunday which was well 
attended fay forty-one people including members 
and their families. Good going. Bob! 
The NDClub of MansHeld is still a beehive of 
activity. Sixty couples including ND members and 
their friends attended our gala Holiday Dance Dec. 
27. Co-chairmen for this affair were JOHN C. G'DONNELL *24 and GEORGE F. KAVANAUGH *3I. Everyone looks fon%-ard to this dance which is a highlight of the Christmas Season. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS S. COLENfAN '46 are 
the proud parents of a baby boy, this is the eighth 
addition to their family. Congratulations, Mar>'lln 
and Francis! 
The Club welcomed BOB GEIGER '44 as an ac­
tive member recently. He helped Chairman C. J. 
KOZAK '30, PETE MORTIZ '43, JACK O'DOX­
NELL '51, in making arrangements for Universal 
Notre Dame Night on April 6. 
—M. E. PRUNTY, JR., Secy. 


McHenry County, III. 
Our Notre Dame Club of McHenry County ob­served Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 6, at a dinner meeting held at the AfcHcnry Country Club. The meeting was attended by over 50 members and their guests. HOWARD PHALIN *28 and his wife were our guests for the evening. Mr. Phalin was our principal speaker and he cov­ered the topic of "Extending the Traditions of Great Teaching" in excellent fashion. 
For the record the Notre Darners In attendance at Universal Notre Dame Night were as follows: JOE CONERTY, BILL CARROLL, JR., FRED KELLER, BILL RILEY, GEORGE COSTELLO, JOHN COSTELLO, DON FREUND, DICK FREUND, TOM ANTONSON, DICK ANTON­SON, BILL VOSS and OLIVER FIELD. 
Our Club observed Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday at the ^farian Central Catholic High School cliapel. Following Mass breakfast w-as ser\'ed in the school cafeteria. The Notre Damers in attendance included: PAUL McCON-NEL, WLLIAM DESMOND, GEORGE COS­TELLO, JOHN COSTELLO. JOE CONERTY, DON FREUND, TOM PARSLEY, BILL RILEY, TOM IkJcNAUGHTON, JOHN ORSO and many of the sons of these members. 
I want to express our club's sincere appreciation to the Alumni Association and particularly to TOM KERNAN for taking the time to stop by last Octo­ber to discuss club problems and offer \'aluable suggestions for future club events. 
—DONALD FREUND, Pres. 


Michigan City 
DICK RUWE of tlie ND Foundation stopped in our town recently and suggested we send on to you the list of new officers for 1964. Our election was hdd in January and the following officers are 
FLINT—Head tabic personalities at Flint's ND Gommunion Breakfast included (l.-r.) 
1960 Man of the Year Archie Campbell, Asst. Foundation Chairman Paul Hughes, Toastmaster Ray Kelly Jr., Fr. Thomas Brennan CSC from the campus. Foundation Chairman Timothy J. Halligan, and President Walt Nagcl of the ND Club of Flint. 
elected to serve from Feb. 1, 1964, until Febrxiarj- 1, 1955: 
J. EAfMETT MILLER, president; LEON A. DARGIS, \-ice-president; STEPHEN E. JANUS JR.. secretary; and WILLIAM PRIEBE. treasurer. Dick was with us at our monthly luncheon meet­ing on March 3. We expect to have JIM ARM­STRONG attend our Golf and Splash party some­time in July or August u-ith ^[rs. Armstrong. DR. BOB FROST will be chairman. 
—J. E.M.\fET MILLER, Pres, 


Memphis 
The annual business meeting for the Club was held March U, 1964, at the St. Louis School Li­brary, and officers for the current year were elected. ROY GILLIA *56 was elected president; L. CHARLES SCHAFFLER '36 was chosen for vice-president, and EUGENE M. SAXON '59 was named to the secretary-treasurer post. 
Plans for an early summer get-together were dis­cussed by EUGENE PODESTA '48, TOM WHIT­MAN '59, AUSTIN HALL '26. T. F. DOHOGNE. RON DOWNER, »55, CHARLIE SCHAFFLER '63, DAN KLEXTER '60, GERRY FINNEY and outgoing president JOHN REYNOLDS *56. 
ROBERT CAHILL 'M, the University ticket manager for the Athletic Department, ^vas in tou-n recenllv to accept the professional talents oi the world-famous DR. JOHN J. SHEA '46. We trust that all is going well and that Mr. Cahill's next visit will be under more pleasant circumstances. 
At a subsequent meeting of the oSicers, plans lor 
a late summer banquet to feature a personality from South Bend and to complement the present Mem­phians at Notre Dame were initially formulated and ^ a tentative committee chosen to coordinate the fes­tiWties. 
—EUGENE M. SAXON, Secy.-Trcas. 


Milwaukee 
Thursday, Jan. 30, at Old Heidelberg Inn was the setting for the ^filwaukee Club's Annual Sports Stag Party. Ace defensive specialist, BILL PFEIF­FER '64 reviewed the past footbaJI season game by game as he saw it. His thoughts were ver>- well received and all present took heart In the fact that, though the season was disappointing In respect to the win-and-Ioss columns, another great crop of Notre Dame men were successfully molded, if Bill Pfeiffer is t^-plcal of 1963*s final product. 
.Assistant Football Coach DAVE HURD told the group about what might be expected in the future ^ under the new coach, AR.\ PARSEGHL\N. His able % fielding of questions from the audience instilled en­thusiasm in the group for the prospects that He ahead. 
In addition the 1962 Green Bay Packer High­lights were shown and free refreshment was on tap. Future Number 1 ND quarterback DAN KOENINGS, from Racine St. Catherine, was a special guest along with his coach, RICHARD De SCHRIVERS '54. 
Members present were: CHARLIE RYBAR, RICH 
FORT LAUDERDALE—^Board of Directors, gathered at the last annual meeting of the membership, includes (l.-r., seated): Charles Quinn '34, William H. Maus Jr. '53, Robert H. Gore Jr. '31, Robert £. McDonough '55; (standing) Frank Carey '46, Frank McGinn '52, Bill Motsett '34, Dave Moss and President Don Dorini '53. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July^ 1964 
SMITH, HUGO CHERUBINI. PHIL VOGEL, 
JERRY CHERUBINI, LANCE EHRKE, BILL j^DOUCETTE, LOU RUKAVINA, CHARLIE QO'NEILL, BOB FLANNERY, DICK EHR, JOHN 
CASTELLANI, JAY CLARK, PAUL BYRON, KEN TRUDEAU, JOHN SCHLOEGEL, TOM WALTER, DAVE ROEMER, CHAS. MULCAHEY, PHIL WEINFURT, TOM SNYDER, JOHN WIL­KENSON, CHARLIE DESCH, MIKE JACOBS, TOM MULCAHY. JOE MESER, GENE SMITH and TOM McNULTY. 
PHIL (Mc)VOGEL put on a one-man show in staging the annuzd St. Patrick's Day Dinner Dance. For the occasion Mr. Vogcl hired out Buddy (Mc)Beck's Supper Club, and a fine combo for dancing. Feature of the evening was a midnight buffcC that surpassed even the ND dining lialls. About 70 members and guests were in attendance. 
^ The event also scn'ed as a farewell party for Treasurer TOM McNULTY, who is moving to Chicago. Good luck to "Knuchs" and Pat, and thanks for a job well done. 
Members present were NED BALDUS, JOHN CLAUDER, CLEM and DAVE DEVINE, PAUL DAMORE, BILL DUMA, FRANK EATON, DICK EHR, LANCE EHRKE, NICK GRASSBERGER, RICK GRIMLER, TOM McNULTY, TOAf MUL­CAHY, DAVE MURPHY, RICK NINNEALWf, DAVE ROEMER, JOHN SCHLOEGEL, RALPH SCHULZ, GENE SMITH, KEN TRUDEAU, PHIL VOGEL and DICK DESHRIVER. 
Full details next time on Dean NORMAN R. GAY's appearance on UND Night. Q —DAVID L. ROEMER 

Muskegon 
Mr. and Mrs. BOB CAHILL were very delightful guests from the University for Muskegon's ob­servance of Universal Notre Dame Night on Tues­day, April 14, at the Muskegon CounCr>' Club. Bob gax'c a very fine talk and delivered In an in­formal, casual, off-hand way coupled xsnth a good deal of sly wit and humor. 
STAN TYLER, JR., our able and cnci^etic president (kindly note the fact that he is president in the official records and is to continue) was "our boy" this year and received the Notre Dame Man of the Year award. For further information in the records, JIM MORSE is to continue as vice-presi­dent, with BILL TARDANI and mx-self continuing 
• respectively as treasurer and secretary. TOM FALLON, the genial city editor of our local Muskegon Chronicle, who together with his lovely wife Barbara was our guest at the affair, has gra­ciously consented to send you the account of the proceedings along with pictures and his usually eloquent portrayal and account arc "far beyond my poor power to add or detract." Jim Morse announced in absentia, through Stan, that the Club could look forward to a bigger and better golf stag this summer. 
—LEO L. LINCK, Secy. 


New Jersey 
Under the leadership of a stock broker, (ERNEST 
• MASINI, JR.), a law>er (THOMAS R. FARLEY *50) and a liquor distributor (GEORGE WENZ), Universal Notre Dame Night 19G4 was a splendid success. 
Over 300 people attended this annual affair which was held at the Bow and Arrow Manor in West Orange, N.J., on April 6, 1964. 
Following the theme of this year's program, "Traditions of Great Teaching," the club pre­sented special citations to outstanding educators from the state. Those receiving the awards xvere: Sister Hildegarde Marie, president of St. Elizabeth's College, Convent Station; Joe Kasberger, director of athletics at St. Benedict's Prep. School; and Gerard 
W. Guteri, principal of Snyder High School, Jersey City. Our guest speaker, REV. EDMUND P, JOYCE 
I CSC, executive wce-presidcnt of the University, dis­cussed the spring construction program which would include a five-million-dollar Athletic and Convoca­tion Center that will ser\'e not only intercollegiate sports but also the University's intramural program. 
Fr. Joyce further stated that the major aims of the University are graduate and research programs and that the plans were also undenvay to build a graduate center for continuing education. 
The chore of toastmaster was dutifully handled 
JERSEY SHORE—At the head tabic for Notre Dame Night at the Shadowbrook Restau* rant, Shrewsbury, N.J. were: (from left) Peter N. Bchnont Jr. '44, dhmer chair­man; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, ND executive vice-president; George Barisdllo '44, Club president and national director; Rev. Paul Kane, chaplain; and Alfred J. Perrinc Jr. '41, t eprescntative of the Foundation. Dinner was held in April. 
home state after many years' stay in Michigan, 
BILL (BAYONNE) DONOVAN '50, The BROTH­
ERS LUSARDI, Old Pro (23 seasons) FRANK 
TRIPUCKA, his close friend and admirer "BERT" 
BERTELLI and ART STATUTO. 
JOE BYRNE in , BRUCE DOLD '52, ROGER 
'52 and JIM FITZIMMONS '50, JOHN Q. ADAMS 
•27, RAY TROY '34 and BOB (CIGARM.AN) JOYCE '50 were also present. 
This was u*ithout a doubt one of the finest UND Nights ever held by the Club, and on behalf of all those who were present I would like to ex­press my sincere thanks to President HARRY DURKIN '53 and Messrs. Fariey, Masini and Wenz for a wonderful job. 
—JAMES A. SEBOLD, JR. '50, Sccv-. 



New Mexico 
On April 7, 1964, the Notre Dame Club of New 
Mexico held its Forty-First Annua] Observance 
of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Hotel Alvarado in Albuquerque, N.M. .Approximately ninety-five alumni and friends enjoyed an excep­tionally well-planned and enjoyable evening. Chair­man for the event \ras CECIL JORD.AN '40. and he received assistance from BILL BENEDICK '54 and PAUL FAR.MER '53. 
We Were fortunate to have as a guest speaker J.AMES COONEY '59, Foundation assistant director, who visited us from the campus and brought us up to date concerning Notre Dame's changes and plans for the future. In keeping with the theme of "Extending The Tradition of Great Teaching" we enjoyed an enlightening talk by Fr. LOUIS BARCELO CSC. Included in the highUgbts of the evening was the presentation of the Man of the Year Award to FR. RICHARD E. BUTLER. OP, national chaplain of the Neuman .Apostolate in the United States. FR.ANK HUDSON *S* was chair­man for the presentation of this au*ard. 
The manager of the .AU-arado Hotel, JIM RYAN '53, and his fine staff prepared a delicious buffet dinner, and our thanks are extended not only to him but to the other Club members who helped make the observance a memorable one. 
Plans for the future for the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico include our annual picnic sometime in June or July. At that time elections ivill be held of Club officers who ^rill strve the club for the next two years. 
—DEN*NIS L. MANGAN '60, Secy. 

New Yoric City 
New York's Challenge Night March S is pic­tured in this issue. 
FATHER JOYCE was guest speaker and Peter Lind Hayes was toastmaster at the Club's cele­bration of UND Night at the Waldorf Astoria on April 4th. FRANK ATKINSON '57 was chairman. 
GEORGE FRAZIER '49 was selected as Man of the Year. ED FITZPATRICK '54 ended his dy­namic two-year reiga as club president and GU5 H.ARD.\RT *42 was inducted as his successor. BILL MURPHY '38 was elected secretary, and the 
by Superior Court Judge ROBERT A. MAT­
THEWS '42. KENTUCKY—On UND Night, at left, Kentucky Club Man of the Year William Reiiert Jr. 
In addition to the large number of guests who (center) shows his scroll to outgoing Prcadent Ron Mazzoli (left) and Jaseph were friends or associates of the au*ard recipients, 
Donaldson, who announced the award. At right. Club officers for 1964-63 are (L-r.) 
many new faces turned out that your reporter had 
Secretary Jack Zufelt, 2nd Vice-Preadent Bob Huetz, 1st \^ce-Prcsident Bill Sher­
not seen for many years, among these DON 
(SPEEDY) WOLF *49 who has returned to his man and President Bob Willenbrink. Absent was Treasurer Joe D'Antoni. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 33 
ever faithful JIM SPELLMAN '41 cominucs as 
treasurer. 
BERNY CONNOR '54 was elected vice-president for the City division, GEORGE \\TNKLER III '57 for the Long Island division and BOB FINK '52 for Weslchcslcr. 
—GEORGE P. KRUG '35, Secv-. 




Ohio Valley 
The Ohio Valley Notre Dame Club held a Din­ner Meeting at Yanda's Restaurant on Feb. 13, 1964. TOM PAGNA, asst. football coach, ^ras the main speaker. Coaclics and players from local high schools were tlic guests of the Club and films of some of their games were shown. Those attending were: Rev. Hilarion Cann. Diocese of Wheeling; alumni FRANCIS WALLACE '23, JOHN (BUTCH) NIE.MIEC '29, BILL MITSCH '33, RUSSELL RICKUS '34, GUS VARLAS '47, BOB SINCA­VICH »50, JIM DAILER '50, BOB DUFFY '49, JLM HARANZO '52, BILL CHESSON '58 and BILL HUGH *59. 
Coaches included George Strager of Wheeling Central Catholic, Richard Pont and Gene Ascanni of Steubenville Central Cath., Dan McGrcw and Pat DcMarco of Bellaire St. John's, Abe Bo'an of Steubenville High and Bob Wion of itartins Fcrr>' High. 
Players Included Denny Deegan, Tom Abraham and Charles LovinsLi, from Wheeling Central Cath­olic; John DeMarco, Les Munjas and Jerry Malizia, from Bellaire St. John's; Patrick Egan and Jules DJFcderica, Steubenville Central Catholic; and Bob DiStefano, Martins Ferr>- High. 
The Club held a dinner meeting at Wilson Lodge. Oglebay Park, to obser\e Universal ND Night on April 6. Dr. John Carrigg, dcpt. of histor>', Col­lege of Steubenville, spoke on "Extending the Tra­dition of Great Teaching." JLM HARx\NZO '52 served as toastmaster. 
The following ofEcers were elected for the com­ing year: BOB SINCAVICH '50, prcs.; BILL BUCH '59, vicc-pres.; BILL MITSCH *33, secy-trcas.; FRANK WALLACE *23, HARRY BUCH '52 and BILL CHESSON '58, directors. 
HARRY BUCH '52, '55. was appointed Founda­tion chairman. BILL HOGAN '51 will be chair­man of a com roast to be held this summer. assisted by BILL BUCH '59. The films "Notre Dame" and *'Shake Down the Thunder" were shown. The following were In attendance: Mr. and Mrs. JIM HARANZO '52, Mr. and Mrs. BOB SINCAVICH '50, ^Ir. and Mrs. GUS VARLAS '47, Mr. and Mrs. FRED FROMHART '39, Mr. and Mrs. PHIL B.\YER '38, Mr. and Mrs. BILL MITSCH '33, FRANK WALLACE '23, BILL HOG.\N '51, HARRY BUCH '52 '55, BILL CHESSON '58, BILL BUCH '59, Dr. Carrigg and Mrs. Edna Sinca\-ich. 
—WM. H. MITSCH, Seo'-Trcas. 


Oklahoma City 
Election of Officers was held during the later part of December, '63. The announcement of the newly elected officers was made during the Club's Christmas Dance by outgoing Prcs. JOHN A. HOBBS '55. The new officers elected for two years are: WALTER "JACK" NASHERT JR. '54. pres.; DAN KELEHER '58, vice-pres.; JOHN A. HOBBS '55. sec>*.; and WAYNE CURRAN '50, trcas. 
The Christmas Dance was held at Twin Hills Golf fi: Country- Club on Dec. 27, 1963, with music by one of our local combos. Cochairmcn for the Dance were JLM DOWDLE '56 and J. T. PHILLIPS JR. '62. The dance was well attended by botli mem­bers and students from the University. 
Wc were honored during the month of Februarv­witli the presence of the ND Glee Club. The con­cert was sponsored by the Loyal Order of Moose and ND Club of Oklahoma City. The concert was held on Feb. 7, 1954, at Bishop McGuinness High School Auditorium, with a reception held afterwards for the Glee Club and members of our local Club. DAN KELEHER '58 was cliairman of the concert. The Glee Club also appeared on KWTV, one of our local TV stations. This was arranged by JIM DOUT)LE '56. who Is national advertising manager for the station. 
The NT) Club of Okla. City held the 41st an­nual Universal ND Night Banquet on Apr. 6, '64, at the Petroleum Club here In Okla. City. 
CHARLES "CHUCK" McFARLANT) '39 was chairman and arranged for a ver>* fine dinner. WALTER A. "JACK" NASHERT, JR. '54, our Club president, acted as Master of Ceremonies. JAMES D. COONEY of the ND Foundation Office was our guest speaker from the University, and the theme of his very fine and enlightening talk was *'Tlic Tradition of Great Teaching." 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
MUSKEGON—On Universal Notre Dame Night (from left) dub President Stan Tyler Jr. ^vas a surprise recipient of the ND Man of the Year Award, presented by William ^ Tardani of the selection committee, and Irish ticket chief Bob Cahill gave a talk. 
The honored guest of the evening was His Excellencj- VICTOR J. REED, Bishop of Okla. City and Tulsa. 
During the banquet the Man of the Year A^vard was made to ALFRED J. KAVANAUGH, who was honored for his outstanding contributions to education. That same day Mr. Kavanaugh was cited by Who's Who In America for his establish­ment of a professional chair In construction engineer­ing at Oklahoma State University. 
.Also during the dinner, the Club presented Its Boy of the Year Award, which was originated by our Club to honor an outstanding member of the junior class of a high school In the area, to MICHAEL KOSTER, Son of Mr. and Mrs. FRANK KOSTER, who attends Si. Mary's High School in Ponca City, Okla. 
The dinner was well attended and enjoyed by all. Incidentally, CHARLES McFARLAND is a can­didate for State Senator. 
Many other activities have been planned for the year '64 and I will send you detailed information later. 
For tliosc Alumni who have moved Into the Oklahoma City Area, our Club holds its monthly meeting at the '89er Restaurant, 3300 North Lin­coln, on the last Wednesday of cacli month at 
12:15 p.m. All are encouraged to attend and participate In our planned activities. 
—JOHN A. HOBBS '55, Secy. 


Omaha-Council BlufFs 
Tlie Omaha Countr>- Club was the setting for Universal ND Night festivities on Friday evening, Apr. 3, 19«. 
The ND "Man of the Year" award was presented to JOHN J. "RED" McMANUS, who had just completed another very successful season in his capacity as head basketball coach at Crelghton U. The regular season's accomplishments earned Crcighton a bid to the NC.-\A Tournament this year. 
Guest speaker at the dinner uTis Fr. Wm. Melody CSC Director of Vocations at ND. Also seated at the speakers' table and called on for comments were Most Rev. Daniel E. Sheehan, auxiliary bishop of Omaha; Msgr. Nicholas H. \Vagncr, director of Boys Town; and Mr. Frank Barrett, superintendent of insurance for the State of Nebraska, who represented Gov. Frank B. Morrison. 
HERB SAMPSON was the recipient of many handshakes and congratulations throughout the evening as a result of his recent election to the Alumni .Association Board of Directors. 
Election of Club officers for the ensuing year was held with the results as follows: DR. JIM LEAHY, pres.; TOM WALSH. vIcc-pres.; LOU FINOCCHIARO, secy.; and BOB BRO>VN, trcas. Retiring after an eventful twelve months w*ere 
JIM BUCKLEY, pres., TO.M FORTUNE, treas., and yours truly. —BOB DUNN '44, Scc>-. 

Orange County, Calif. 
.A reception was held in honor of JIM ARM­STRONG at the Disneyland Hotel, during his recent visit to the Southern California area. 
In addition to many of the Orange County Notre Dame members, National Director MORT GOOD­MAN and BOB GERVAIS, president of the Los Angeles Club were also In attendance. ^ 
.A short business meeting w*as conducted where V plans were made for the coming year. Also the new officers of the club for the 1964-1965 year were announced. They are: TOM GETZINGER '52, president; BOB SCHADE '56, Vice President; BOB LAJOIE '51, Treasurer; JACK DECOURSEY '53, Secrctar>-; STEVE FINAN '37, ^VALLY AN­DREWS and ART PRICE '47, directors. 
Officers Flnan and Schade were on the com­mittee for joint UND Night ceremonies with four other ND Clubs tn Los .Angeles Apr. 6. 
—THO.MAS GETZINGER, Prcs. 


Oregon 
Undaunted by the Alaska earthquake of two ^ weeks prior, JLM ARMSTRONG flew over the • wreckage-littered California and Oregon coasts to a warm welcome from his associates in the American Alumni Council representing Oregon colleges, and also to be campus guest and speaker at an en­thusiastic Universal Notre Dame Night gathering. After lunch at the U. of Portland, Jim had a press Inter\'icw w*ith the education editors of Portland newspapers before his banquet talk. 
A highlight of the evening was the third annual presentation of the Judge FRANK J. LONERGAN Memorial au^ird to the outstanding scholar-athlete of Catholic high school seniors in the state. Since this is currently the only slatc-wide inter-school award among Catholic schools, interest in It in­creases yearly. Mr. Errol Rccs, Multnomah County superintendent of scliools, who has been most help-fl ful in suggesting judges for the award, made the presentation. Wc arc grateful to Mr. George Zelllck, principal of Thurston high scliool, Spring­field; Mr. Dan Jones, athletic director, Oregon City high school; and Mr. Stu Nohrenbcrg, sports scribe for the Portland Reporter, for their scr\ice as judges. 
A long time workhorse for the Club, PHIL MEANEY '50 was elected president. Sharing the spotlight with him arc PHELAN THO.MPSON '55, new vice president, who has been very active in the few years he has been here, and GEORGE ^L\CK III '61, treasurer. 
Missed at the affair were tuo longtime stal­warts recently called to their first Easter in heaven, Mr. James Kirby, father of KEN KIRBY *42, \vhosc pride in Notre Dame was unsurpassed by any alum­nus, and GEORGE W. PHILBROOK '12. Rockne contemporary, great track star and for 20 years 
f track coach at the U. of Portland. Our sympathetic prayers go to their families. FR. GEORGE DUM CSC gave a glowing tribute to George as a Notre Dame man in the highest spiritual sense although he was not a Catholic. 
—TOM MAGEE '32, Secy. 

Peoria 
The master of collegiate football during an in­comparable era at Notre Dame was featured speaker and guest at Universal Notre Dame Night on Wednesday, April 8. FRANCIS W. "FRANK" LEAHY, former head football coach of the Fight­ing Irish, continued the tradition of the Notre 

© Dame Club of Peoria of bringing headline Notre Dame men to this annual function held at ^fount Hawley Country Club. Frank was introduced to an expected capacity gathering of alumni and friends of Notre Dame by JERRY GROOM, AIl-Amcrican captain and center at N.D. in 1930. Formerly a Peoria resident. Groom currently lives in St. Louis, Mo. He continued his football activi­ties following his 1951 graduation from Notre Dame with the old Chicago Cardinal football club, gaining All-Pro honors in 1954. The Emo Arboit Memorial Trophy of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria was awarded at the banquet to Peoria Central High School as champions of the Mid-Siate Eight Football Conference in 1963. H. A. "PETE" VONACHEN '47 presented the magnificent trophy, measuring nearly five feet high, to Principal Max Mills and Grid Coach Wm. "Corky" Robert­son of the Peoria Central Lions. Previous winners of the travelling trophy have been Woodruff, Spalding, and Manual. The award is given an­nually in memory of ENIO ARBOtT, former great Notre Dame football end and coach at Spalding Institute in Peoria. 
WILLIAM B. WOMBACHER LLB '51 was awarded the Notre Dame Man-of-thc-Year plaque by his classmate CHARLES J. PERRIN who won the coveted award in 1963. Former recipients in­cluded JOE LANGTON, RALPH E. JOHNSTON, LEO SCHRALL, JOHN E. CASSIDY, SR., DON­ALD P. SMITH, JOHN F. NL\NION, and the late ENIO ARBOIT. Bill Wombacher was se­lected for the honor as the Notre Dame Man who has reflected the ideals of Our Lady's University 
9 in his home, civic, business, and club activities. In partnership with hb wife, Ann, Bill presides over a typically large Notre Dame Family — when he isn't presiding over one of the many organiza­tions that make him indeed a man among men. During the past year Bill has been a responsible officer of the Knights of Columbus, Catholic In­terracial Council, Peoria Bar Assn, the Peoria Deanery of the Diocesan Council of Catholic Men, Christian Family Movement, and as a post president of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria is always tremendously helpful in carr>*ing the ball for one or more Club activities each year. 
Invocation and benediction were given by Msgr. John Whelan, chaplain at the Pontiac State Peni­tentiary. General Chairman JOHN R- POWERS, JR. was assisted in the program bv JOHN MANION, co-chairman; W. D. CL-^RK, ticket chairman; JOHN A. SLEVIN, finances; R. C. BENKENDORF, arrangements; and C. J. PERRIN, Awards. 
JOHN MANION '56 and JOHN SLEVIN '60 have thrown their hats into the political arena. John Manion is running for Democratic delegate to the Nominating Convention and John Slevin is running for precinct committeeman. TOM ECK­LAND '53, past president of the Peoria Notre Dame Club has been promoted by his finn to a Chicago position. We all wish him luck and good fortune. JIM McCOMB '54 was the chairman of the financially successful St. Patrick's Day Dance held at the Country Club of Peoria. Jim was assisted by JOHN MANION '56, JACK POWERS '53, MAURY CICCIARELLI '55, DENNY POWERS '56, JIM FOOHEY '36 and BILL CLARK '47. Those who failed to make this event missed a fine evening of mid-lentcn relxxation. 
By the time you read this the Notre Dame Glee Club will have presented a concert April 25 in the Spalding Auditorium under the sponsorship of the Academy of Our Lady Guild. Many of us have looked fonvard to an evening like this for some time. 
OHIO VALLEY—Discussing you-know-what in Wheeling, W. Vsu, on Univcnal Notie Dame Night are (from left): Francis Wallace, Bdlaire, O^ author and former ND Alumni Assn. president; guest speaker Tom Pagna, new Irish hackfidd coach; Bob Sincavich, president of the Ohio Valley ND Club; and Russell Rickus, vicc-prcsdent. 
General Motors Corporation. Welcome, Tom. BILL tuted for the February meeting. MOOSE KRAUSE BOBO '54 Is now in business for himself. If you and JIM COONEY outlined the program to a are thinking of building a home give Bill a call. spirited gathering, many of whom were deeply 
By the time this appears, yours truly will hax*e moved by the familiar campus scenes and faculty become a papa for the third time. Joining RON faces in the movie which was part of the program. HEINZ '57. CHUCK PERRIN '51, and PAUL The evening ended on a high note with a pledge WEGHORST '56. TED M.\NL\TIS '62, has a of $6,000 to start off the new campaign in Phila­pretty new wife. delphia, from an alumnus who asked that his name 
—R, C. BENKENDORF JR. '60, Secy. not be used. 
ARTHUR E. S. CASEY JR. '53 will be taking 

bows for a long time in Philadelphia. Art was 

Philadelphia 
chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night April JAMES P. LEYDON '49 was reelected president 
11 at the posh Marriott Motel, and all hands of the Philadelphia club for 1964. Vice-President agree that this was the best ever. More than 160 BILL WHITESIDE '51 and Treasurer JERRY showed up for the affair, and it proved well worth VOIT *58, were re-elcctcd. Secretary* TOM Mc­while. After a gay cocktail party, Casey pre­GR.-VTH *48 has fled to Margate. N.J. to practice sented an epicurean dinner, an inspiring speaker, law, and JINI GALLAGHER '29 was named his and some unforgettable entertainment. 
successor. 
JAMES E. GALLAGHER JR., one of Phila­Five new governors were elected to the board delphia's leading lawyers and businessmen and — FRANK SPx\NIEL '50, BART JOHNSON '48, an active worker In civic and philanthropic causes, JOHN HANNIG.AN '41, PAT KITTREDGE '58 may have raised a few hackles with his comments and JOHN VOIT '51. Holdover members of the on youth's lack of respect for authority today and Board of Governors are permanent chairman CLIFF 

the need for improved standards of Catholic edu­PRODEHL '32, THONLVS J. DE.MPSEY and cation, but nobody went to sleep on him. 
JOHN MOORHEAD, '49. Challenge II got off to a rousing start in The Club's Man-of-the-Year award went to Philadelphia at a smoker Feb. 5 which substi­HENRY A. HENRY, knou-n to all Philadelphia as 
Your officers need help! We need dues and a broader base of support for all activities. Arc there OKLAHOMA CITY—In a unique double ceremony on Universal ND N^ t (firam left) other functions you want? Let us know, as you 
Man of the Year Alfred J. Kavanaugh is congratulated by dub President Jadk 
pay your dues. 
Nashert and Boy of the Year Michael Koster receives the ccmgratulations of Nashert and 
THOMAS GOR&fAN has recently moved to 

Peoria as manager of Chevrolet Zone Office of Most Rev. Victor J. Reed, Bishop of the Diocese of Oklahoma City and Tulsa. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 35 



F;wr.^trE 
NIGHTS: 

Chicago Honored Mrs, Bob Hope (and Friend) 
MORE THAN 650 gathered in the grand 
ballroom of the Palmer House in March to honor Dolores Hope (Mrs. Bob) as "JfD Lady of the Year" for Chicago. At this point 
the crowd was intent on the steak dinner. 
SMALL TALK (above) absorbs the head-table participants before a hectic pro­gram: (from left) Joe Kigali, Mrs. Edward 9' Krause, Mrs. Cvrus Friedhcim, Rev. John Walsh CSC, Mrs. Robert Hope, Dr. George Shuster, Arthur Conrad, Ed Krause, Don Ross, Bob Hope, Mrs. Conrad and Mrs. Frederick Salmon. 
PRIXCIP.ALS (left) showing the honor guest's "Dolores Hope roses," gold medal and award plaque are (l.-r.): Conrad, then Club president; Mrs. Friedhcim, Auxiliary president; Kigali, dinner co-^ chairman; Fr. Walsh, ND public relations ^ nce-president; the Hopes; and Mrs. Salmon, dinner co-chairman. 
CINCINNATI (opposite) featured such Irish Icttermen as (clockwise from upper left) Tom Rini, Jim Mense, Chuck Lima, Aubrey Lewis, Joe Morrissey, Moose Krause and Joe Meyer. At right National Chairman Krause engrosses (clockwise) Chairman Bill Grafc, Jim Cooney of the ND Foun­dation and Club President Barry Savage. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 



NIGHTS: 
New York Had Eddie Arcaro and Other Celebrities, Cincinnati an Imposing Array of Monogram Greats 
NEW YORK'S crowd for Challenge II Night at the Waldorf had to be photographed in three sections to be fairly complete. 
BASEBALL IMMORTAL Shag Shaughncs­sy and new Irish Coach Ara Parseghian arc either plotting plays or getting the autographs of other sports celebrities such as top jockey Eddie Arcaro (not shown), father of an ND student, Edward R. '65. 
ALUMNI PRINCIPALS in New York included (from left): J. Walter Kennedy, National 
Basketball /\ssn. commissioner; Ed Fitzpatrick, N.Y. Club president; Bill Fallon, Aliunni 
Assn. vice-president; Fr. John Walsh, Universitj- vice-president for public relations and 
development; the ubiquitous Edward Krause, national chairman for the 
Athletic and Convocation Center; Monogrammers Harry Wright and Dick Lynch. 
Jade. A devoted friend of the University and of the Philadelphia club, Jack Henry for 25 years has been a champion fundraiser and promoter of club trips. 
No one at the parly will ever forget the superb piano-playing and singing of JACK BUCKLEY, teIe\'tsion star-tunied-banker, and the singing of SETH LIPPARD. 
A new Philadelphia Club directory is just off the press, and is drawing plaudits for B.ARTON B. JOHNSON '48. Bart, one of the real \vorkhorses of the Philadelphia Club, scr\ed as chairman of the directory committee, and he has turned out a handsome illustrated book, crammed with informa­tion and handsomely decorated with ads which hopefully will pay for the publication. 
President JIM LEYDON is already hard at work on plans for a big week-end Oct. 30-31 ivhcn the football team plays N3\y at Philadelphia Sta­dium. All you Eastern alumni will be smart to start making reser\'ations now for Philadelphia that weekend. 'Twill be well worth while, even if you miss the football game. 
—JIM GALLAGHER '29, Scc>-. 

Phoenix 
On March 11, 19M, the Notre Dame Club of Phoenix held its annual election of officers. The new ofBccrs for 19G+ arc: TOM HENNIGAN, president; ART ERRA, vice-president; JOHN McSHANE, secretary and TOM SMITH, treasurer. Plans were made for Universal Notre Dame Night to be cele­brated on April 11, 1964. Report next issue. 
The members of the Scholarship Fund Committee for 1964 are JOE HORRIGAN, GENE RYAN, JOHN SCMOUTEN, TOM HEN-NIGAN &. MIKE BOSCO. 
Word has been received that CONN J. HORTON passed away on Januar>* 24, 1964, quite suddenly. Conu is survived by his wife Kathleen, a son, Robert Conn, and two grandchildren. 
—JIM CORCORAN, Secy. 


Pifftsbuish 
The Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh held its annual Family Communion Breakfast on Sunday, April 5, in the Church of the Holy Spirit. 
We were privileged to have Bishop Elko read Mass in English in the B\-zantine Rite. 
Following the Mass, breakfast was scrx'ed in the Parish Hall. Bishop Elko spoke at the breakfast, and JAMES P. BEYMER was chainnan. 
On May 14, 1961, MOOSE KRAUSE was in Pittsburgh for our Uni\'ersal Notre Dame Night celebration and also to talk about the athletic program in general and the Foundation goals for the coming year. He had with htm some films and plenty of information on the athletic set-up. The dinner at the Pittsburgh A.A. that evening was a stag affair. LEO D. O'DONNELL JR. was in charge of the program. 
At the May I4th Universal Notre Dame Night celebration our new officers were installed. They are President PAUL A. HUDAK, Vice-President 
J. PETER FRIDAY, Secretary -MICHAEL BOYLE and Treasurer LEO D. O'DONNELL JR. I certain­ly hope that you will all give these new officers your full support and help them to make the Club a more active one. George Brown, our \^ce­president these past two years, is now living in Beaver Falls and feels tliat he cannot continue in an administrative capacity. 
Last year we started our scholarship program. James Bridgcman was given $600 under our schol­arship program as the 1963 recipient. The records of the University indicate that he is in the 99th percentile of his class which means that he is at the top of the group. 
Alumni have been asked to scout around to 

. -see .if there arc any summer jobs that could be a%'ailable for students. If you have any ideas along this line, please call BILL McGOWAN (621-3342) and give him your name and tlie job. When the boys contact us, wc will refer them to Bill who will help the boys secure empIo\-mcnt. 
The Council for International Lay .Apostolatcs has a chapter at Notre Dame. There is a project this year to send several Notre Dame students to South America to help the people of tliat country better themselves not only physically but spiritually as well. The boys did an outstanding job in Lima, Peru, last year and are hoping to go back again this year. Michael Caruso from Pittsburgh is one of these boys who will be going. 
Howc\'er, the project is in critical need of funds. They are about $1,700 short of securing the necessary funds to send these boys to South America for this worthy cause. ^Ve are asking all our Alumni to send a small check to help this 
38 Notre Dame AlumnuSj June-July, 1964 
PEORIA — Ennio Arboit Memorial Award trophy is admired by (l.-r.) principal speak­er Frank Leahy, winning coach Bill Robert­son of Peoria Central and award chainnan 
H. A. (Pete) Vonachen at Peoria Universal ND Night. (Peoria Star photo.) 
matter. Checks can be sent directly to C.I.L.A., Box 401, Notre Dame, Indiana 46336. 
In conclusion, I certainly would appreciate any of those who haven't yet paid their 1963 dues doing so in order that we can pay some of the bills that wc owe. Is there any particular reason why every Alumnus fran't drop into the Penn Sheraton Hotel, Variety Club on the first floor, one Thursday out of the entire year to have lunch with a few of his fellow alumni? Is there any reason why many of the other activities can't receive fuller and much more enthusiastic support? If there is, please tell us so that we can help make them better. 
I certainly want to thank tlic officers this year for their splendid support. I also want to thank all of those who were chairmen of the i-ari­ous activities and did such an outstanding job. Without their help we never could have done as well as w*e did. 
—DONALD W. BEBENEK, Retiring Pres. 



Quad-Cities 
The Notre Dame Club of the Quad-Cities held a brunch thb year for its Universal Notre Dame actix-ity. The event took place at the Short Hills Country Club in East MoHnc on Sunday, April 12. PROF. BRODERICK, assistant dean of the Law School was guest speaker. We had quite a nice 
PITTSBURGH — The last holiday dance was planned hy these two channing wives, members of the Pittsburgh Auxiliary whose names somehow got lost in transit. 
turnout for what proved to be a most enjoyable 
event. 
New officers elected for this year arc as fol­
lows: TOM BRITT, president; PETE LOUSBERG,^ 
vice-president; and BERNIE LAVINS, sccrctar>-­
treasurer. New Directors elected are PETE FIE­
\VEGER and BOB FRANDSEN. Returning Di­
rectors are JOHN NOLAN, DR. JOHN BISHOP 
and BOB CORYN. 
—B. J. LAVINS, Scc>-Trea5. 


Rochester 
JIM RYAN '20 was there. So were ED CARSON '41 and LEO WESLEY '49. DICK SULLIVAN '32, VINCE DOLLARD '39, ARNIE MORRISON '35, DON CORBETT '58, DAVE MILLER '55, ROY aUW A '52 and PHIL YA^VMAN '62 were there.­Newcomer to Rochester JOE O'KEANE, and ^ JOHN GLAVIN '58, back tliat morning from the ser\'ice, and Rochester's number one subway alum­nus JIM SHA\V, they uerc there. Even JACK DUFFEY '35 made it. The occasion \vas the highly successful "Challenge II" night at the Rochester Club March 4 with EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE as guest speaker. JOHN CASEY '55 W3s chairman of the dinner program. Over 70 people attended the event. 
In March EDWARD J. DE.MPSEY '55 was 
elected to Secretary of the John J. Soble Lumber 
Co., Inc. During his spare time he is a mem­
ber of the Rochester Junior Chamber of Com­
merce, Rochester Salesman's Club, Midtown Toast­
master's Club, Young Men's Christian Association^ 
and Our Lady of Lourdes Parish Men's Club. 
Pres. JIM DOYLE '51 has gone from a 40-hour 
work week to 80 .. . he and partner Ed Reagan 
have formed "Payrolls With Ease Inc." with 
offices at 339 East Ave. 
The ND Women's Organization held a fashion show .April 8 at Sibley's Tower Restaurant. Ticket chairwoman ^vas Terr>' Hanna. All proceeds went to the ND Alumni Scholarship Fund. 
Events after this writing will have included the 
annual Business Meeting and election of new officers 
(mid-April) and Universal Notre Dame Night 
(early May), to be reported by new Sccretarv 
GENE YURGEALITIS. 
Further reflections on the last Christmas Dance held at the University Club bring out that ARNIE MORRISON '35 was the "best twister" of the evening. Consensus had it that GENE YUR-A, GEALITIS '57, ROY HANNA '52 and BILL™ REEVES '53 vverc never seen a^vay from the bar. DICK DONOVAN '59, currently at the University of Minnesota studying for his Ph.D, reported that he will be teaching at St. John Fisher College in June for his third summer. It was good to see ncwlyweds JERRY CURRAN '57 and SID ^VILKIN '56 there. 
1964 has shown a lot of new appointments for ND area graduates. Democrat and Chronicle sports writer and author DAVE WARNER '48 is the new president of the Rochester Press-Radio Club. Kodak has appointed DON BOOTH '49 (1963 ND "Man of the Year") as assistant general auditor of the entire Eastman Kodak Co. Traveling sales­man DAVE LEICHT '60 has formed his own com­pany — oddly enough called "Dave Leicht Asso-^ ciates." And JIM McQUIRE '37 has been named executive vice-president of the Marine Midland Trust Co. of Rochester. 
Former Rochesierian TOM BULL '62 sends a dipping from the South Bend Tribune about RORY CULHANE '65, a junior from Rochester, who currently holds tlirce NT) Varsity swimming team records. Tom is currently a history instructor at Adams High in South Bend. 
—J. DAVID SAMUELSON, Retiring Secy. 


Rome/Italy 
NOTRE DAME HOSPITALITY CENTER IS OPEN EVERY DAY ALL D.W. ADDRESS: ^ LARGO BRANCACCIO 82. TEL.: 730.002.^ ALL ARE WELCOME. 
We are honored by ordination to the priest­hood of member REV. ROYCE HUGHES, brother of FR. HAROLD HUGHES CSC, for the Diocese of Austin, Texas. And again by arrival of new member JI&I KELLY '46 new general ser\*ices of­ficer, US Embassy. 
Faith and we paid solemn annual honor to St. Patrick with traditional gathering of the clan, wel­coming these visiting ND firemen: FR. HOWARD KENNA CSC, Indiana provincial; GEORGE WOLF '36 and wife; J. PATRICK MARTIN '60, and a MARK HOWARD '63. In lieu of his pres­ence DICK REAMER (Vienna and Elkhart) sent four framed pictures of ROCK, the GIPFER, JOE 
BOLAND and the FOUR HORSEMEN. Wannest thanks. 
^ Doorbell ringers; parents and brothers of DICK 
VDEICH L '65 and brother Bob '67; FRANK SCHLEIH '62; sister of FR. CHARLES YOUNG CSC; brother of FR. VfM. DUFFUS CSC (de­ceased); ANDREW CHAPLIN '62. JOHN WALK­ER '60; father of DICK REAMER '53; DICK SCHLEITER '57, JIM BRENNAN '56; BERNARD BREHL '42, father of Barney '66; LEO VOGEL '17 >vith Leo Jr. '49: fiancee of FRANK McCON-NELL '6»; BOB McNEILL '63, BILL BAULT '59; JIM SULLIVAN '30 and wife: PAUL HURD '43, FR. ED FrrZGERALD CSC '30. JOHN McC^F­FERY '60 MA. FRANK SCHRADER '60, FRANK TULLY '39; BOB MURPHY '55 and wife; parents of Paul and TERRY LAMB '59; and Sr. John Paul Keller CSJ '67 (who skipped school on campus ^t o attend brother's ordination here). 
Distinguished ringers: Mrs. Arthur J. O'Connor, XD Woman's Adv-isorx* Committee, widow of DR. ARTHUR J. O'CONNOR LL.D '61; sUter of ARTHUR McCANN '30. and with her son ROB­ERT O'CONNOR '76! Finally. Dr. Nathaniel C. Kendrick. Dean of Bowdoin College, Maine. 
—VINCE McALOON '34, Secy. 


Saginaw Valley 
DENNIS F. TROESTER, assistant director of the ND Foundation, was a guest speaker at a UND Night meeting of the Saginaw Valley Notre Dame 
^Clu b Apr. 4 at LcChateau Restaurant in Bay City, Mich. Among the principals were Club President JERRY CARROLL of Bay City, Vice-President LAWRENCE SMITH of Saginaw, Secretary JO­SEPH D. KAVANAUGH of Bay City, and ROB­ERT ROMAKER of Saginaw and the Board of Directors. 

St. Joseph Valley 
This was a su'inj^ini? spring for the South Bend area and the JOE DILLON administration. 
A thrce-prongcd basketball banquet joined the Valley Club, the Villagers and the ND Founda­tion in an unveiling of the Challenge II program (particularly the new basketball g>-m in the pro­jected Athletic and Convocation Center), a tribute to the 1963-64 Irish cagers and an emotional fare­
0 well to retiring Coacli JOHN JORDAN '34. Among the honors bestowed on the 13-scason mentor were an achievement award from the National Mono­gram Club, a plaque from the Shea brothers who attended from Baltimore and Carolina, a trophy from the Harlem Globetrotters (via NBA Com­missioner WALT KENNEDY *34, a principal speaker), a 1964 station wagon from local friends and spoken tributes from Monogram Club President FRANK MILES, '22. Toastmaster DICK ROSEN­THAL '54, Coach-elect JOHN DEE '48, FRS. EDMUND JOYCE and THO.NfAS BRENNAN CSC. MOOSE KRAUSE *34 made the Beldhouse pitch, and Classmate Kennedy pledged $1,(K)0 on the spot for the Center. Co-Captains for 1964-65 were introduced as Jay Miller and Walt Sahm, the latter recipient of the '63-'64 Most Valuable Player 
O ard. 
The 33rd Annual KNUTE ROCKNE Memorial Communion Breakfast had Horseman HARRY STUHLDREHER addressing an overflow crowd at the Morrb Inn in an inspiring tribute to a man whose memory* still overshadows Irish football. Among countless prominent guests were ARA PARSEGHIAN, HUGH DEVORE, JACK ROCK­NE, KNUTE ROCKNE JR. and Mass Celebrant FR. CHARLES CAREY CSC, all participants in wreath-laying ceremonies at the graves of Rock and fellow coaches GEORGE KEOGAN and JOHN NICHOLSON. 
St. Joseph High seniors Michael Frost and Joseph Kernan were named in April as recipients of the annual Valley Club scholarships for more 
Othan $8,000, joining eight other local boys on schol­arship courtesy of the annual Old Timers Game. 
UND Night on April 23 was also a triple-header: presentation of a lifetime honorarj- membership to Niles Ranclicr ED HEALEY, a Hall-of-Famer from Dartmouth and the Chicago Bears who has been a friend of the University, the Club and Irish athletics for more than 40 years; ND Man of the Year honors to a basketballcr-turncd-banker, RICHARD ROSENTHAL, leading force in the community over the past two years; and an address by Freshman Dean WILLIAM M. BURKE, a former Duke U. baseball player, on the national theme, "Traditions of Great Teaching." 
About 30,000 turned out May 9 for Coach Parseghian's debut in a grinding 30-23 victory* over 
¥S^, 

PHILADELPHIA—Among the leaders of Universal Notre Dame Night in Hiilly were 
(from left): Arthur E. S. Casey Jr., dinner chairman; dub President James P. Leydon; James E. Gallagher Jr., featured speaker; Ambrose (Bud) Dudley, toast­master; and Seth E. Lippard and Jack Buckley, whose singing and playing stole the show. Dudley was presented with the National Service to Youth Award of the Pop Warner Foundation for bis work as athletic director, coach and promoter. 
a determined Old Timers team expertly coached by BILL EARLEY '43. The injury-plagued '64 Irish gave reason for optimism, but the crowd was with such alumni as GEORGE IZO, RED MACK, JOHN LATTNER, LEON HART, JIM MARTLN and GUS CIFELLI. 

St. Louis 
First, sympathy to three of our alumni on the deaths of their fathers. Mr. William H. Hormbcrg died recently. He was the father of \VILLI.\M J. *43 and ROBERT M. HORMBERG '50. Thomas J. McGuirc Sr. died on .-Vpril 7. 196*. He was the father of THO.MAS J. McGUIRE JR '49, who was our Club president in 1938. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis held a St. Patrick's Dance for local alumni and friends on Saturday evening, March 14, in the Regency Room of the Chase-Park Plaza Hotel. Jack Englcr's Or­chestra provided the music. An added attraction enjoyed by all were the Bagpipers, a local group who certainly kept us entertained with plenty of good Irish music. Over 150 persons were in attend­ance, and we look forward to making this an an­nual event. JERRY McGLYNN '60 was chairman. 
In elections held in early March, the following alumni were named to our board of directors for the next four years: GENE FEHLIG '43, JOE ALBERS '50, JOE D^VYER '58, TAL PO^VELL '49 and MARRIN LEWIS '60. HANK LUEPKE '57 was named to the board to replace JOHN BOYCE '61, who has been called to active military sen.ice. Officers elected for 1964-65 are: CONNIE LANE '57, president; JERRY McGLYNN '60, sec-retar>-treasurer; JACK CROWLEY '57, vice-president, activities; JOHN J. PHELAN '56, vice-president, university relations; and, M.\RK iL\LEY '57, vice-president, publicity. 
The annual dinner of our Advisor>' Board was held on Wednesday, -April 8, at Schneithorst's West Restaurant. This meeting enables the current officers and board of directors to explain their programs, and to seek the help and assistance of those alumni who have preceded them as officers and directors. Congratulations were extended to DR. BERT D. COUGHLIN '26 who was recently elected to the National Alumni Board. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held on Thurs­day, April 23, in the Mayan Room of the Bel Air East Hotel on the riverfront. DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to Father Hesburgh and former president of Hunter College, %vas our guest speaker. He spoke about Notre Dame's role in higher edu­cation and the various programs the University has initiated in order to be able to offer the finest pro­grams in these \-arious fields. >fcntion was also made of the dedication of our new Memorial Library which took place on May 7. 
Jj\CK GRIFFIN '39 was our toastmaster. The 1964 St. Louis Club "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award ^vas given to DR. DANIEL L. SEX­TON *22. A check was presented to Dr. Shuster from our club to be applied to our Scholarship Fund at the University. The new directors and c^* 
ficers were introduced to the alumni and their 
friends. 
Other guests of prominence in St. Louts educx­tional circles who were guests of our dub were the Rev. Jerome J. ^farchetti, S.J., Executive Vice-President of St. Louis University who represented the Ver>- Rev. Paul C. Reinert, S.J., the President of St. Louis University who received an honomrf Doctor of Laws Degree at the dedication of our new Memorial Library on May 7; Msgr. James T. Cur^ tin, Ph.D., Superintendent of the St. Louis Arch­diocesan Educational System, who represented His Eminence Joseph Cardinal Rittcr, the Archbisht^ of St. Louis, who gave the blessing to dose the convocation at which the new library ^vas deflicated on May 7; Fr. Gerald Sheehan, S.J., Prindpal of St. Louis High School; Bro. James Daniel, F.S.C., Director and Bro. .Aloysius, F.S.C., Asst. Director of Christian Brothers Military High School; Fr. Norbert Mocllering, S.M., President, and Bro. William Chuewing, S.M., of Cbaminade College; Fr. Timothy Homer, O.S.B., Headmaster of the St. Louis Priory Sdiool; Fr. William Lyons, Counselor of Bishop DuBourg High School; and Msgr. Gerard 
N. Glynn, Director of the Newman Chapel and Foundation. 
At this time I would like to thank, all the.alumi . for their help and assistance during the past year. Without your attendance we could not have had such successes. It has been a privilege and honor to have served as your president for this past year. I ^vish CONNIE LANE '57 the best of lock as your new president and know that you will give him the same fine support you gave me. 
—HER^fAN L. KRIEGSHAUSER '54, Retiring Pres. 


St. Petersburg-Tampa 
The Florida ^Vest Coast University of Notre Dame .Alumni Club held a Universal ND Night dinner meeting addressed by FR. JOHN E. WALSH CSC, vice-president for public relations and development at the University, in the Elks Club, Tampa, Fla., on April 23, 1964. It was a great opportunity for our alumni, parents and friends of Notre Dame to hear Father Walsh speak on "Kxtcnding the Tradi­tion of Great Teaching." 
AR.\ PARSEGHIAN, the new head coach at Notre Dame, was guest speaker in Tampa, Jan. 23, at the third annual sports award dinner. 
This charity afTair is sponsored by the Bayshore Optimists Club for the benefit of the Boys* Clubs of Tampa. There were 900 there at $10.00 a plate to see these awards and hear what the new head coach had to say about Notre Dame. 
The St. Pctershurg-Tampa Notre Dame Alumni Club had a table of guests: Mr. & Mrs. ROY DEEB, chairman of our Foundation Committee; Mr. & Mrs. JOSEPH M. CAMPBELL JR.. Mr. & Mrs. EARL WARE JR., Mr. & Mrs. ROBfAN FELDSPAUCH. Mr. &. Mrs. MARK MOONEY, Mr. CHARLES TALLEY and Mr. FRANK CAL­LAHAN (all Notre Dame alumni). 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 39 
After dinner Coach Parseghian \-i5ited wixh tis at our Notre Dame tabic and we had a good chance to get better acquainted. 
Our St. Petersburg-Tampa Alumni Club felt par­ticularly fortunate to have this opportunity to hear Ara Parseghian in one of his earliest public ap­pearances since joining Notre Dame. 
We were tremendously impressed \tfilh his ability and the splendid image of Notre Dame he left with an enthusiastic audience. If any other alumni clubs ever need a \igorous injection of Notre Dame **spirit" we sincerely recommend you hear Ara Parseghian. We hope he will come back to Florida again soon. 
—MARK MOONEY, Pres. 


Salina 
"Go Irish!" said the invitation. 

AVhcrc? To NORB SKELLEY^s for a drop of refreshment and then on to The Black Angus Steak House for a filet. \\Tien? St. Pat's day —natcher­ly — March 17! ^Vho? All members of the Salina ND Club and their wives and guests. How much? Sure and it was a mere pittance, lad, $1.00 per head. 
"Let's be having ourselves a ball," wrote Chair­man AL 0*SCmVARTZ, adding, "Erin Go Bragh!" 

San Antonio 
On April 16 the San Antonio Club held Univer­sal Notre Dame Night at the Menger Hotel. Among the forty-five persons present were a num­ber of guests and Notre Dame alumni presently in the armed forces stationed temporarily in San Antonio. 
BRO. STANLEY CULLOTA '57. '63, the prin­dpal of Holy Cross High School, vrss the guest speaker on the 19W theme, "Extending the Tradi­tion of Great Teaching." As a Notre Dame graduate and a local educator. Brother Stanley's discussion of the meaning of the theme and of ^ e Challenge n program was appropriately the highlight of the evening. 
At our November meeting we Wcwcd the 1962 football highlights in the Safari Room of the Pearl Brewery. President BILL L\MM and his wife Diana provided homemade snacks to go with the tap beer donated by the bre^very. 
On December 26, the San Antonio Club held a dinner-dance at the Fort Sara Houston Officers Club honoring students home for the holidays. This Christmas part>' was received entliuslastically and a festive time was had by all. 
—CHILTON NU\TRICK. Secy. 


San Fernando Valley 
A banquet to establish an educational fund for David Dunlay, the son of TOM DUNLAY '52, was held Nov. 24, 1963, at tlie Schlitz Brown Bottle Room in Van Nu>-s through the courtesy of TOM SIMPSON. Tom Dunlay developed multiple sclerosis and has been incapacitated throughout most of 1963; however, at this ivriting he is back at work. The dinner in honor of Tom netted $850, principally due to the efforts of JIM GILLIS '51, who 5er\-cd as chairman for the event, and DWAIN SPENCER '56, JACK KELLY '45, and JERRY TRAFFICAN­DA *51. ^vho assisted Jim as co-chairmen. A number of prominent entertainers, including PAT O'BRIEN, TIM CONWAY, "SUG" FISHER, KEN CURTIS, JOHN LARKIN, BOB DONNER, and HENRY GIBSON made the event an outstanding success. On behalf of Tom and wife, I would like to ex­press the sincerest thanks to all the alumni and friends who supported the dinner. 
The biennial election of the Notre Dame Alumni Qub of San Fernando Valley was held February 27, 1964. ROBERT HUNTER '52 of 8757 Jumilla Ave­nue, Northridge, California, was elected president. ROBERT DONOVAN '57 will serve as vice-presi­dent, and ANGELO TURCO '53 as secrctarj­treasurer. Retiring officers are TOM DUNLAY '52, president; JACK KELLEY '45, vice-president; and DWAIN SPENCER '56 secretan-trcasurer. 
MICHAEL GREELEY '62 and JOHN LEON­ARD *34 represented President Hunter and the Club on the • committee at UND Night April 6 in Hollywood. 
—DWAIN SPENCER, Retiring Secy. 


San Gabriel Valley 
BENJAMIN B. SALVATY '32 was geocral chMnnan and President WILLIAM T. HUSTON '51 a member of the planning committee for a five^ub UND Night with JIM ARMSTRONG in Los Angeles, April 6. 

40 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
TWIN CITIES—The executive ci the last holiday dance, sitting out a measure in Minneapolis' Shcraton-Ritz Hotel, included (L-r., seated): Harold Sweet, Mis. ^ Donald Dugan, Mrs. John Clifford and Donald Ehigan, dance chairman; (standing) Mrs. ^ Harold Sweet, Twin City Auxiliary president, and John Clifford, Club President. 

Spokane 
The Club's annual Holiday Party took place the evening of Dec. 27 at the attractively commodi­ous home of DICK ST. JOHN, Wcc-presidcnt of the Club. Dick and his lovely wife Pat provided In tasty fashion the material items for the pleasure of the evening, including a bowl of green punch with a glacial shamrock floating in it. A goodly number of members and their wives provided the convivial­ity to make it a very enjoyable affair. Following members, with drives and friends, %\-ere in at­tendance: ED BETHKE '28, FRANK HAGEN­BARTH '27, PIERRE HIROU '62, JIM LYNCH '40, GARY MYERS '59, JOHN P. O'NEILL '29, DR. JIM ROTCHFORD '49, RALPH SCHULLER '57, BERNIE SMYTH '55, DICK ST. JOHN '56, BILL WOLTER '35, and JOE WALSH '14. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on .April 11 In the Georgian Room of the Davenport Hotel. A record high in attendance enjoyed the affair, whicli consisted of a social hour preceding a sumptuous dinner and a fine program. Retiring President DR. JIM ROTCHFORD '49 presided and introduced as guest speaker the president of Gon­zaga University, Ver%' Rev. John P. Lcary SJ, who discoursed Interestingly on the theme of this year's event and praised ND as the world's greatest. A Man of tlic Year scroll was a\\'ardcd to ELMER 
E. JOHNSTON '23 for his conscientious ser\'Ice as a member of the Washington State Legislature for many years and his work in the apostolate for the social and moral betterment of his fcUow man. The presentation was made by THONL\S A. E. LALLY '06, the Club's senior member. A mbicd group of high-scliool students entertained witli a few Hoote­nanny numbers which were well received. The eve­ning ended with the election of the following offi­cers: Pres. RICHARD ST. JOHN, '56, Vice-Pres. 
R. B. PENLAND *56, and Secretary-Treasurer JOE WALSH '14. 
Our s>Tnpathy to MOST REV. BERNARD J. TOPEL, '38, bishop of Spokane, on the death of his mother, ilrs. ^tar>• Pauline Topel, February 26, in Spokane, Wash., and congratulations to Miss Patricia Jean Connell and R.\LPH L. SCHULLER '57 on their marriage in Ellensburg, Wash., March 30. 
—JOE ^VALSH, Secy-Treas. 


Terre Haute 
The Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute cele­brated Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 6. The evening started with a cocktail party, which was arranged by JAMES E. SULLIVAN. General chairmen for the celebration were MYRON BUSBY JR. and MICHAEL KEARNS. Folk singcw from St. Mary of the Woods College entertained during the dinner hour. Principal speaker for the evening was Assistant Coach *'DOC" URICH, who 
stressed that high academic standards can go hand 
in hand with high athletic standards. 
The Notre Dame Man of the Year was selected from outside the Club membership this year. The "Secret" Committee chose Mr. JOHN R. MAHALEK. Mr. Mahalek definitely merited the award for his unselfish efforts in working with the Community Blood Bank, being a\-allable to help out any time of day or night; also for his outstand­ing work In his parish, setting up retreats, spear­heading the Holy Name Society, working with the young boj-s in the community — all of this and much more without asking for any attention. He^ does It because it has to be done and does it without the thought of any personal advantage. RAYMOND J. KEARNS presented the award to Mahalek. 
New officers for the vcar were introduced. They 

are Pres. JAMES P. BOYER, VIce-Pres. ROBERT 
KINTZ, Secretary MICHAEL KE.\RNS, Treasurer 
CHARLES METZGER and Chaplain REV. ED­
WARD WETZEL CSC. 
—JAMES P. BOYER, Pres. 




Toledo 
Toledoans participated in the 4Ist Annual Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night with a banquet In the 
Great Lakes Room at tlic Toledo Club on Tuesday,^ 
.April 28, 1964. ^ 
We were pleased to have Prof. WALTER M. LANGFORD of the University as our speaker. Pro­fessor Langford's subject was drawn from his ex­periences as director of a US Peace Corps project in Chile 1961-1963. Professor Langford has long been the head of the modem languages department and In addition has coached the University tennis and fencing teams to outstanding records. 
An added attraction of the evening was the an­nouncement of the recipient of the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" A^s'ard. Nominations for this axv'ard were submitted to a committee consisting of JOE KALBAS, TERRY 0'L.\UGHLIN and JIM MALONE. Tlie winner will be announced next issue. ^ 
Alumni, their wives, and friends of the Unlver-^ slly were in%'ited. As special guests, we again In­vited the principals of our local high schools. 
—JOHN HARRON, Chrmn. 

Triple Cities 
The University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Triple Cities helds its annual Communion Breakfast to honor the Notre Dame students home for the holidays on Sunday, Dec. 29. 
Mass was celebrated by our Club chaplain, Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS J. HARRISON '33 at St. Patrick's Church, Binghamton, N.Y. Approximately 40 students and alumni then attended breakfast at the Sheraton Inn Ballroom. 
Hon. JAMES KfcCABE '40, mayor of Johnson 

City, N.Y., delivered a most stimulatins talk on ^'Federal Aid to Education." Mayor McCabc cm­^^hasized that the education of children Is the 
responsibility of parents and advocated that the State or Federal Government grant a tax exemp­tion, earmarked for education, of a specific amount for each child. This, he maintained, would recog­nize the fundamental right of the parent to choose the education of his child. In addition, it would do away with the danger of federal control of edu­cation, as well as eliminating the objections of those who are ivorried over the separation of church and state. 
MSGR. HARRISON '33, Club chaplain, spoke briefly, urging the group always to maintain their identity with Notre Dame and to cooperate actively 
^^it h other Catholic groups within the community XJLO that a strong Catholic impact may be made upon the community. 
This year we combined UND Night with a Challenge II Night featuring MOOSE KRAUSE on April 9. A report on that next issue. 
TOM MUSCATELLO '49 joined JOE GALLO­WAY '51, JOHN O'ROURKE and JLM CONNER­TON '49 as vice-president, replacing TOM BENE­DICT '48. 
—JOHN J. O'ROURKE '49, Secy. 


Tulsa 
At our meeting in February we had an election of new officers to scr\'e for the next two years, as 
© 
SPOTLIGHT CLUB: TERRE HAUTE "Notre Dame Spirit in Service" 
The Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute "had the privilege" of extraordinary service in helping Bill Norton, freshman student from the University, and also Bill's parents, Mr. and Mrs. William Norton of New Orleans. 
On the 3th of February Bill and tAvo fellow students were on their way back to Notre Dame after >-isit!ng with Bill's parents in New Orleans between semcs­
€ ' ters. They had taken turns driving, and Bill Norton was at the wheel on an "S" ciurve. A car coming from the opposite direction blinded Bill with its lights, causing his car to swerve, go out of con­trol and roll, throwing Norton out. The two other passengers in the car were un­injured. Young Norton was taken to a hospital in Linton, Ind., and later trans­ferred to St. Anthony Hospital in Terre Haute because of his critical condition. He had no pulse or blood pressure at one time and was given the last rites of the Church. 
0 
Mr. and Mrs. Norton arrived from New Orleans at which time members of the Terre Haute Club displayed their Notre Dame Spirit by helping out wher­ever possible — providing transportation to and from the hospital, inviting the Nortons to their homes for dinner, etc. Father Edward Wetzel CSC, Club chap­lain, ofTered Mass for Bill's recovery and also asked that the boys of Gibault School oiler their prayers for him. The Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute also 
€ accepted the responsibility for replacing the seven pints of blood used for Bill Norton while be was in the intensive care ward. On Sunday, Feb. 16, Terre Haute clubbers purchased a plane ticket to South Bend, and Bill Norton was on his way to Notre Dame to complete his freshman year. 
follows: WILLUM N. SHEEHAN '49, president; JOHN A. CHARON '48, vice-president; JOSEPH 
R. McGRAW '55, treasurer; and JERRY N. WOOD *61, secretary. 
A report on spring events will be in the next issue, —MARION J. BLAKE, Retiring Pres. 

Twin Cities 
The first fall meeting of the Twin City Club was held on Nov. 13 at the Haram's Brewery in St. Paul. An ideal spot, right! JOHN F. CLIF­FORD '38 was elected president of the Chapter. DONALD DUGAN '34 was chosen as the chairman of the annual Christmas Ball for the second year in a row. The other officers for the year are ROB­ERT FALEY '56 and TOM KIRK '58, secretary; and TOM REIS '41, publicity. 
This Club also sponsored a freshman orientation program which was a success. The Incoming fresh­men met some of the fello^v Minnesota students and were acquainted wth the Minnesota Club that the students have on campus. 
On Dec 2 the alumni group and its Auxiliary had the annual Christmas Pot-Luck Dinner. The host and hostess of that event were Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT CULLIGAN '51. About seventy people were able to attend. Ever>'one exchanged presents, bringing In the Christmas Season. 
DON DUGAN's work on the Christmas Ball was a success. The dance was held at the Sheraton-Ritz in Minneapolis on the 27th of December. The special guests were the N.A.I.A. champions, St. John's U. team from Collegeville, Minn., and its coaching staff. The Auxiliary made the decorations for the dance and called the members reminding them of the dance. 
Some of the local news that our Alumni have made: Mr. and Mrs. (Rosemaric Rao, St. Mary's '61) MICHAEL O'SHAUGHNESSY '63 are Uving in St. Paul now. Micliael Is employed by the in­vestment firm, Piper, JafTrcy & Hopwood. JOHN BENNISON *63 was here to visit the O'Shaugh­ness>-s at Thanksgiving. John is going to school in New York City, working on his master's. He is making the "Big Step" In June to Miss Judy Rao. BOB RAO '63 Is a student at the U. of Minnesota. He Is a member of the Thcta Chi fraternity. Bob hopes to go Into hospital administration at Minne­sota In the fall of '64. FRANK SCHLICK '62 is sta­tioned in Germany with the United States Army, we heard. H.AROLD SWEET '53 Is practicing law with the law firm of Mordaunt, Walsted, Couslneau & Nfagtiire in Minneapolis. Harold Joined the firm last October. RAY GAIO '61 \vas in St. Paul. While he was here, he saw PAT HAMILTON '61. Ray had a lot of news about the fellow architecture stu­dents in their class. Pat Hamilton has completed the first part of the Minnesota State Boards in architecture. In March he had all his apprentice­ship time in, so he can take the rest of the Boards. Pat is employed by Ccmy and Assoc in Minneapolis. Pat helped Mr. Ccmy with the Serra Club's Convention on Vocations. 
Universal Notre Dame Night '64 was obsenicd by Twin City alumni on April 22. Over 120 mem­bers and wives gathered In the Ballroom of the Capp-Towers Hotel in Minneapolis for the annual affair. In keeping with the nation-wide theme, and In recognition of their contributions to the local academic community, a number of Notre Dame alumni who are extending the tradition of great teacliing in Minnesota were introduced and justly honored by those assembled. In addition, the aca­demic representatives of St. Thomas College, St. Catherine's College and St. John's University In the Twin City area were invited to join the ND crowd for the dinner and the address by DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to Fr. Hesburgh. Dr. Shnster's excellent talk provided a good picture of the road in quest of "Academic Excellence" at the Uni­versity. 
Honored alumni who are teacliing locally In­cluded ROBERT B. ASH.MORE JR., THONUS L. BOHEN, JAMES A. BYRNE, RICHARD W. CONKLIN, ROBERT E. CONLIN, JOSEPH N. FLOOD, FRED E. FLYNN, ROBERT P. FOGER­TY, ERNEST F. HRON, ELMER KOHORST, PETER C. KRATCOSKI, PATRICK H. LALLY, RAYMOND G. MOCK, JAMES C. NOONAN, JOSEPH P. O'BRIEN and JAMES A. RYAN. In addition, SRS. ESPERANCE, FIDES, GEREUfY and MARY VIRGINL^ were honored for associa­
Club President JOHN CLIFFORD presented, en behalf of the University, a special recognition plaque to PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY for his efforts dur­ing Pat's tenure on the National Board of the Alumni Association. Pat recounted some of his experiences and provided an Insight into the work­ings and achievements of the Board. 
PAUL GABLER and JIM NOONAN served as co-chairmen for the affair, which brought Alumni from many parts of the State as well as from the Twin Cities. 
—TOM KIRK. Secy. 


Washington, D.C. 
After a UND Communion Breakfast featuring BILL FOLEY '37, a St. Patrick's Day election party and the visit of FR. JOHN A. O'BRIEN, alumni and friends of Notre Dame were Invited to attend the 41st Annual Universal Notre Dame Night ob­ser\-ed by the Notre Dame Club of Washington, 
D.C, on April 6, 1964. The purpose of the night ^vas to bring focus on Notre Dame, emphasizing its educational aspects aside- from the athletic 
This year the theme was "Extending The Tradi­tion of Great Teaching." In line with the theme for the Night and because of the ever increasing importance of higher education to our nation in these days of swiftly changing and complex prob­lems at home and abroad. It was our desire to honor America's outstanding educators, especially those with the added responsibility of heading in­stitutions and providing educational leadership In the city that is the seat of our Government. We presented a Notre Dame Award of Merit to the presidents of the following five major universities located In Washington: Dr. Hurst R. .Anderson, American U.; Msgr. William J. McDonald, Cath> ollc U. of America; Rev. Edward B. Bunn SJ, Georgetown U.; Dr. Thomas H. Carroll, George Washington U.; and Dr. James M. Nahrit Jr., Howard U. 
As our speaker for the evening we were honored to ha%'e Gen. Alfred M. Gruenther, president of the American National Red Cross. General Gruen­ther is truly an outstanding Catholic and also the recipient of the Notre Dame Laetare Medal in 1956. 
REV. THO%L%S J. O'DONNELL CSC, Associ­ate director of the Notre Dame Foundation and director of the Notre Dame Library .^n. , repre­sented the University. 
Universal Notre Dame Night also gave us the opportunity to present the Notre Dame Man of the Year Au-ard, along with the ofiicers for the coming year. (Story next issue.) 
—JOHN S. GLEASON JR. Chrman. 


West Virginia 
This Is a belated notice on officers of the Notre Dame Club of West Virginia. The current officers are Pres. CYRIL M. REICH '39; V.-Pres. H. PAT­RICK TONER *59; Trustee JAMES F. ALES. SANDRINI '53; and Secy. WALTER J. TOUS­SAINT '28. 
Wc had a picnic last summer and a party at Christmas and have worked on proWdIng an ap* propriate observance of Notre Dame Night. 
—W. J. TOUSSAINT, Secy. 


Western Washington 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\*ed on Monday, April 6, 19&^, with cocktails and dinner at the \Vindjammer Restaurant, Seattle, Wash. 
Our distinguished guest was REV. GLEN R. BOARMAN CSC, assistant professor of philosophy at Portland U. and formerly student chaplain at Notre Dame. Wives and guests (parish priests, friends, etc.) were invited. Chairman was OLLIE FLOR. 

Youngstown 
The Youngstown-Warren Area Notre Dame Club held Its Football Smoker Stag at Pltllck's Restaurant on February 10. Assistant Coach TOM PAGNA %vas Introduced to the area's outstanding athletes and coaches. BILL MICHAELS. MIKE LYDEN. and DAN MODAK officiated. 
Some of last year's movies were reWewed. It looks like next season will be a good one. 
There was a dinner meeting Thursday, Fdiruary 
tion with the Notre Dame Graduate School. REV. 27 at the Colonial House, and UND Night was BERNARD COUGHLIN, REV. .\LUIVIN O'CON-celebrated on April 15 at the Youngstown Country 
Officers of the Notre Dame Club of 

Terre Haute reported being "very happy 
NELL and our Club Chaplain REV. DANIEL Club with MSGR. ROBERT C FANNON, admin­to serve . . . one of the main reasons CURTIN CSC of the Holy Cross NoWtiate at istrator of Canton's Central Catholic High, m for receiving our charter." Jordan, Minn., were likewise acclaimed for their speaker. educational work In our locality. —CHARLES B. CUSHWA III. Secy. 
Notre Damt Alumnus, June-July, 1964 4i 
Miss Barbara Joyce Malanga and A. WILLIAM Chicago, twice served as president of the club. He 



Classes 

ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Veronica Anne Kalaman and JOHN F. LYONS '45. Miss Elizabeth Jane Brenner and J. P.VTTERSOX DREW '53. Miss Michelle Wittchen and Dr. FR.\XCIS J. DEGA '56. Miss Judith Carol Fuller and RAYMOND THOM.4S TERLIZZI '56. Mbs .Ann E. Veir5 and JOH.V CUSHIXG KE.NT •57. Miss Roberta Jaeger and DESMOND H. O'CON­NELL JR. '57. Miss Susan Schu-artzwalder and PAUL THOMAS 
WALKER "57. Miss Julianne Earls and FR.ANK M. FOX '58. Miss Joan Elizabeth Kozon and WARREN HEN­
NESSEY DELANEY '59. Miss Judith Ann Prichard and Lt. MARSHALL J.\MES ProCEON '59. Miss Judith Ann Price and ROBERT A. WOM­B.ACHER '59. Miss Mar\- Edna Bangasser and ROBERT GEORGE BECKER '60. Miss Martha Steele Imlay and USA I/Lt. ROGER LAURENT BERNARDI '60. Miss Carol Sue Scuderi and FRANCIS PATRICK CREADON '60. Miss Anne Louise Egan and WTLLL-iM L. HER­
GENROTHER '60. ifm Nanc5- Riggs and P.\UL T. GORSKI '61. Miss Donna Marguerita Romano and WILLL\M 
C. KEARNEY '61. Miss Gail Hoddinott Maybcrrj- and THOMAS E. LARKIN JR. '61. Miss Dec .\nn Dvorak and WALTER J. O'BRI­EN II '61. Miss Ruth Ann PT r and RONALD A. SHU­BERT '61. i.nss Janice M. Pritdiett and THOMAS JOHN CUSKER '62. Miss Bevcrlv Bartlctt and Lt. JACQUES L. MARTIN '62. Miss Amv Rose MavTclis and JAMES GATELY SQUYRES '62. Miss Mari- Jo Oullettc and NEIL KELLEHER '63. Miss Barbara Lou Ullcn- and JOSEPH M. MASSO '63. Mbs Ly-nnc Ann Cenkush and Ens. RICHARD W. McXfANUS '63. Miss Sharon Louise Magce and USx\F Lt. D.W­lEL R\RRINGTON WERNER '63. Miss Sandra Mav Langel and R.ANDOLPH J. WOLF '63; 

MARRIAGES 

Miss Rita Bcime and HERBERT P. GIORGIO '32, Locust Valley, N.Y. 
Miss Avril Elizabeth Quiggin and RICHARD ESTAL SHIP.\t\N '51, Westmoreland Hills, Md., January 25. 
Miss Kathr)n Leber and DON.ALD P. BEDEL, '54, Belleiille, III., December 28. 
Miss Trudie Beth Haddon and JOHN JOSEPH WANCHOW JR. '55, Belleville, N.J., January 25. Miss Kerry Mary Sullivan and PAUL EDWARD 
COURTOIS JR. '57, New York City, January 4. Miss Patrida Jean Council and RALPH L. SCHULLER '57, Ellensburs, Wash., March 30. 
Miss Sally Jane O'Brien and Dr. WILLIAM E. DORENBUSHCH '58, South Bend, Ind., Feb­ruary 4. 
Miss Diane Barbara Firmbadi and M.ARK FRANCIS KESSENICH JR. '59, Williston Park, N.Y., February- I. 
Miss Era V. Oszlanyi and LESLIE S. DOMON­KOS JR. '60, Lakewood, Ohio, January- 4. Miss Kathr^•n Mar^- Holmes and CHARLES C. C\YCE JR. '61, Fort Eustis, Va., Februarj- 8. Miss Julianne Bescos and Na\->- Lt. jg GEORGE NICHOLAS GEE '61, Long Beach, Calif. 
Miss Marv Jo Connellv and %MLLIAM BEN­JAMIN HIGHFIELD JR. '61, Dayton, Ohio, Feb­ruary 8. 
Miss Gencnevc DuBois and JOHN E. HUTCH­INGS '61, Knox, Ind., January 25. 
S.ALA JR. '61, Newark, N.J., January 18. Miss Geraldine H. Williams and PAUL A. THOMASON '62, Nor\valk, Conn., January 4. Miss Eva Luisa Roa and RAFAEL TORRELLA­GARCIA '62, South Bend, Ind., April 4. Miss Mary Ellen Conboy and .ANTHONY T. GI.ATTINA '63, Oak Park, III. Miss Mar>- Marjorie Walsh and JOHN MICHAEL GREEN JR. '63, Omaha, .\eb., December 28. 
Miss Nancy L>Tin Van Uum and JAMES NEAL L.ANGWORTHY '63, Cleveland, Ohio, Decem­ber 28. 
Miss Marilou StoulTer and EDWARD J. RUT­KOWSKI '63, Notre Dame, January 18. 
Miss Rebecca Jo Grave and WILLIAM VIN­CEN'T MEEKER Feb. '64, Stuttgart, Ark., Mardi 31. 

BIRTHS 

Mr. and Xtrs. JOSEPH W. KNOTT '42, a daughter. Amy Theresa, January 19. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK M. LINEHAN '45, a daughter, February 18. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES SHEA '47, a daughter, Mary Katherine, December 6. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIA.M H. GRIFFY '48, a son, Timothy Arthur, February 8. Mr. and Mrs. CARLOS J. CORONA '49, a son, .Andrew John, March 3. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. O'REILLY '50, a daugh­ter, Ellen Marie, January 30. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. DILENSCHNEIDER '53, a daughter, Mary Marta Sophia, March 9. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES V. GIBBONS '53, a son, KcWn Patrick, Febniary 11. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. TRIGI.ANI '54, a son. Carlo Andrea, December 7. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. GULDE '55, a daugh­ter, Lisa Anne, March 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. McSHANE '55, a son, January 6. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL A. -MILLER '55, a daugh­ter, Mary Kathleen, January 31. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN G. COONEY '56, a daugh­ter, Eileen Ann, February 12. .Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. GORDON '57, a daughter, Josephine Ellen, January 5. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER C. O'KEEFE '58, a daughter, Kclleann, January* 19. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD P. ALLARD '60, a daughter, Michdic Marie, December 26. .Mr. and Mrs. TERRY E. LALLY '60, a daugh­ter, Kelly Ann, October 27. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL F. LOMBARDI '60, a daughter, February 17. Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE G. MARTIN '60, a daughter, Molly Ann, Februar\- 18. Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW J. MURPHY '60 a son, James Ford, Mardi 9. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. RUDGE '60, a son, Timothy Mark, February 24. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP C. HOFF.M.AN '61, a son, Michael Christopher, February 3. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. R.AY '61, a son, Thomas Michad, March 20. Ens. and Mrs. ROBERT E. BUSZKIEWICZ '62, a daughter, Mary Terese, December 22. Mr. and Mrs. ANGELO DABIERO '62, a daugh­ter, March 22. Mr. and Mrs. VLNCENT P. .MICUCCI '62, a son, Vincent Peter Jr., February 19. Mr. and Mrs. F. WALTER RIEBENACK '62, a daughter, Angda Mary, Jantiary 27. 

DEATHS 

JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN '01, an attorney in Chi­cago's city corporation office for 29 years, ilicd in Columbus Hospital, Chicago, March 29. Mr. Sulli­\'an, one of the founders of the ND Club of 
is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. 
FRED A. CONNOR '03, Oil City, Pa., died| 

March 14. There were no other details given. " 
REV. STANISLAUS A. GRUZA CSC '03 died December 14 in Chicago. Fr. Gruza founded St. Hedwig's High School (which later became South Bend Catholic High) in 1928. He had scr\cd as asst. superior of Holy Trinity- parish, Chicago, from 1958 until his death. Prc\'ious to that he had been superior there from 1952. 
JOHN J. O'CONNOR '05, Los Angeles, Calif., 

IS deceased according to word recently received at 
the Alumni Office. 
REV. THOMAS E. BURKE CSC '07, who taught English at ND for 30 years and was well known for his poems signed "T. E. B." died January-9 in Holy Cross House, XD. From 1921 to 1929 h ^ taught at the U. of Portland. He retired in 195^ and had resided at Holy Cross House since 1961. 
REV. LOUIS M. KELLEY CSC '07, former president of the University of Portland, Ore., and assbtant superior general of the Congregation of Holy Cross in New York City, died February* 8 in New Oricans. He taught here from 1927 to 1928 and was head of the department of religion from 1940 to 1945. He retired in 1954. Sur\ivors include a brother, Rev. John Kelley CSC, and a sister. 
REID B. GRAY '08, former chief of testing laboratories at the Martin Co. and inventor of a collapsible and self-sealing gasoline tank for air­planes, died January' 16 at his home in Baltimore, Md. He is sur\'ived by bis wife and daughter, a brother and a stepsister. m-
PAUL R. MARTIN-DILLON '09, Cumberlandr Md., died after a long illness on January* 30. He was associate editor of the Cumberland £\-emng Times and the Sunday Times and an editorial writer for the former South Bend Times in the early I930's. At one time he was director of the Bureau of Information, National Catholic Welfare Con­ference, Washington, D.C. 
EDWARD J. SUMMERS '09, a South Bend osteopathic physician for more than 40 years and a past president of the Indiana Osteopathic .Assn., died April 1. Survivors include his wife, a son, two daughters, a brother and a sister. 
REV. WILLIAM F. MINNICK CSC '10 died January-9 in Holy Cross House at ND. He had been chaplain to the Sisters of Holy Cross at Immaculate Conception Convent at St. Mary's College from 1937 to 1962, when he retired. H* ^ had previously been at St. Patrick's parish in Soutl^' Bend and also at parishes in New Orleans and Waterlown, ^V^s. 
JAMES L. HOPE 'II died in Astoria, Ore., January 4, after a year's illness. He is survived by his wife, four children and a brother. Rev. .Arthur Hope CSC '20. 
GEORGE PHILBROOK '12, a teammate of Knute Rockne and former coach at the University of Nevada, died March 29 in his home in Portland, Ore. He was a member of the 1912 Olympic team, competing in the decathlon with Jim Thorpe. 
REV. FRANCIS A. BRO^VN CSC '17 died March 17 in Holy Cross House on the campus. Fr. Brown was on the facult>' here from 1936 to 1942 an ^ also taught at the University of Portland and St^) Edward's University. Survivors include four brothers and five sisters. 
CHARLES P. DUTRIEUX '18 died February 5 in South Bend, Ind. A veteran of WWI and AVAVII, he was active in several militar>' and fraternal organizations. He was a past exalted ruler of the Elks Lodge, and other past exalted rulers served as pallbearers. He is survived by his wife, stepson, daughter and two brotliers. 
DANIEL F. McGLYNN JR. '18, city attorney for East St. Louis from 1927 to 1930, died De­cember 20 in Belleville, III. He was a member of the Illinois Commerce Commission for four years 
Miss Rita Holmes and JAMES P. REITH '61, Notre Dame, February 8. Recently deceased are Frs. Gruza, Burke, KcIlcy, Miimick and Brown, all CSC 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
and scn'cd as asst. atty. general of the state. He 
was a member of the park district board and ^founded a law firm with his father. Mr. McGIynn ^^vas president of the Bank of Belleville, vice-presi­
dent of a construction company, and a director of Cahokia Downs race track. 
JACK R. BUTLER '19 of Palm Beach, Fla., died in 1962 according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
CONN J. HORTON *21, died January- 24, in Bisbee, Ariz. He is survived by his wife and a son. 
JOHN L. BULOWSKI '22 died August 7, 1962, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
JAMES L. DEERING '22, of Nashville, Tenn., died December 23. He left college to attend Officer Candidate School. He was active in the Scrra Club of Nashxille. 
0 R. FRED GLUECKERT '22, formerly of South Bend, Indiana, died December 21 in his home in Arlington Heights, III. He is sur\'ived by his wife, two sons, two daughters, two sisters and three brothers, including Rev. Henr>- Glueckert CSC '16 and Charles *25. 
J. BARRY HOLTON '22 died February 15 in Dallas, Tex. He was a player and a coach at ND under Knute Rockne, and as a freshman coach in 1921 he had the Four Horsemen on his squad. He had retired a year ago as director of community scrxice at Southern Methodist University. Surx'ivors include his widow, son, daughter and his mother. 
©
WALTER E. KLAUER '22, of Dubuque, Iowa, died this year. He is survived by a brother. No other details. 
EDWARD G. DcGREE LLB'23 of Grosse Polnte Farms, Alich., died March 3 after a short illness. He was a football line coach at Purdue U. and later at U. of Detroit. He was an asst. U.S. atty. and belonged to several law assns. Survivors include his wife, daughter, brother and mother. 
GEORGE F. BARRY LLB'24 acddcntly shot and killed himself in his home in Chicago on January 16. He had been a corporation lawyer since 1935 and before that an attorne>* for 25 years with the Borden Co. Surviving are his wife, two sons and t\v'o daughters. 
COL. RAYMOND R. BR.\DY LLB'24 of Salt Lake City, Utah, died May 6, 1963, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
KARL A. PAULISSEN '24 of Port Arthur, Tex., died December 24, 1963, according to word received at the Alumni Office. 
© CORNELIUS A. RAUH '24 of Akron, Ohio, died January 24, of a heart attack. He is sur\'ived by his wife, son "nmothy '55 and brother Waller '23. 
SAMUEL E. SULLIVAN '25, past president of the ND Club of Alabama, died in January of this year. At the time of his death he was chief mining engineer for Woodward Iron Co. in Birmingham, Ala. His sur\'ivors include his wife, son, two daugh­ters and three sisters. 
ROBERT J. .ANDREWS '26, Elkton, Md., died December 30, 1963, after a long illness. . His wife sur\*i\'es him. 
MARTIN B. DALY '26 died March 1 in the hos­pital at Los Altos, Calif., following an emergency operation. Burial was in Cleveland with Father Blatt, Chaplain of the ND Club of Cleveland, of-
©
Bciating. Survivors Include his wife and three daughters. GEORGE R. PARAGE LLB'26, veteran South Bend attorney, died Fcbruar>' 18 five hours after suffering a heart attack while addressing a jury. During hb tenure as city judge, he established the night court sy'stem and also held court on Saturda>*s. He was president of the County Alcoholic Beverage Board at the time of his death and active in several organizations. He is survived by his wife. WILLIAM O. BRANDENBURG '27 of South Bend died January 28, according to word received from his wUc. He had been active in ND activities over the years. EDMOND G. FLEMING '27 of Eau Claire, Wis., died March 31, 1963, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
Q LEO J. HERBERT LLB'27, prominent Rock Is­land, III., attorney, died suddenly on December 6, 1963. His son Leo Herbert Jr. is a senior at ND. 
FRANCIS W. LEARY '27 of Houston, Texas, after making a speech to an oil group in a local hotel, collapsed and died on March 11. Two doc­tors in the audience coutd not help him. Since graduation he had been In the oil business, and at the time of his death he was acting area manager for the Humble Pipe Line Co., which comprised most of Texas. He is survived by his wife, son, and brother. 
DAVID VAN WALLACE '27, Mount Clemens, Mich., died April 12. He had been paralyzed al­most completely since a campus accident when he u-as 18 and acted as the Detroit area representative 
REASON FOR CONCERN The inordinate number of obituaries in this issue is partially due to a backlog o£ death notices stimulated by the recent resumption of direct mail, but it also represents a steadily in­creasing toll of alumni in recent >'ears. Although most of the beloved departed men­tioned here were acutely aware of the Univer­sit>**5 influence on their lives and extremely generous in their gifts and serv'ice to Notre Dame while they were alive, few were prepared to extend that help beyond their lifetimes through prudent disposition of their estates. If you have thought about proWding for ^-our loved ones and your University hereafter, you should consult your laH-^-er, trust officer or in­surance counselor. Or for information on the \'ariou5 areas of estate planning, >'ou may write to: Frank G. Kelly, Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

of the campus-based Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes. His mother survives. 
THEODORE A. WIEST '27 is deceased according to word recently received In the Alumni Office. There were no details. 
MARCUS E. FARRELL '28, a Clarksburg, W. Va., pediatrician, died suddenly on January 12 from a heart attack suffered while shoveling snow. He is survived by his wife and two sons, Marcus E. '61 and John D. '59. He helped organize and served as chairman of the Board of Directors of the Cen­tral West Virginia ND Club. 
ROY A, WORDEN '28, South Bend architect and engineer and longtime member of the City Plan­ning Commission, suffered a heart attack and died in his home on March 19. He had taught architec­ture here for the last three years. He is survived by his wife and three sons. 
CYRIL A. COSTELLO MA'29 of Providence, 

R. I., died May 2, 1963, according to word recent­ly received at the Alumni Office. 
THOMAS M. LEE '29 of Silver Spring ifd., died December 3, and was buried in Canton, O., accord­ing to word received from his wife. 
REV. GEORGE J. WELSH CSC '29 died Febru­ary 7, 1963 according to w*ord belatedly transmitted to Alumni Office files. 
JOSEPH L. APODACA '30 died in Argentina on February 15 according to a telegram received from his brother. Funeral services were in Albuquerque, 
N. M. 
H. JEROME PARKER '30, of Oakland, Calif., formerly advertising manager for American Air­lines and the Matson Lines and a former editor of NOTRE DAME magazine, died January* 8. He was an Army captain in WVt' II. There were no other details. 
DONALD SCHETTIG '30 from Ebensburg, Pa., ND Foundation chairman In Johnstown, Pa., died on December 26, 1963. 
DR. JAMES F. SECCARECCIO '32 of La^v­rence, Mass., died March 13, 1963 after a long ill­ness, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. 
HON. OWEN D. YOUNG LLD'32, Van Hornes­ville, N.Y., died July II, 1962, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
FRANCIS J. FOGARTY '33 of Allentown, Pa., died Nfarch 15, 1963, of a heart attack according to word only recently received at the Alumni Office. Thomas N'. '58, a son, survives. 
CHARLES R. RILEY '33 of Lafayette Hill, Pa., died March 11. .At the time of his death he was manager of industrial relations at Electric Storage Batter>- Co. He was a member of the ND Club of Philadelphia. Survivors Include hts wife and two daughters. 
THOMAS CHOLIS '34, a patent attorney of Short Hills, N.J., and formerly of South Bend, died April 3 in a Short Hills hospital. He had been ill with a heart ailment. Burial was in Indianap­olis. Surviving were his wife and a son Thomas Jr., a freshman at ND; four brothers including Nicholas 
P. '33, Alexis T. '41 and Gust '40; and two sisters. 
PHIU P C. COOLEY '35, St. Paul, Minn., ex­pired April 12, 1963, according to word recently received from his wife. 
EDWARD J. KORT '39, New York City, Is deceased according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
SR. ALVRION PURCELL SC '40, Cincinnati, O., is deceased according to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
PATRICK M. REDD '41, Augusta, Ga., died in October, 1963, according to word recently received at the Alumni Office from his sister. 
ARNOLD M. McINERNY '42 su£fered a heart attack and died on March 4. He was employed in the research laboratory at the Bendix Corp., South Bend, Ind. Surviving are his wife, two sons, a daughter and his mother. 
JOSEPH F. CALLAHAN JR. '43, a former Niagara Falls, N.Y., resident, died in Paris, France, December 4, while on a business trip. .At the time of his death he was living in Hon; K-ong, where he was sales manager of the consumer prod­ucts division of UCI. Burial u-os in Hong Kong. He is survived by his wife, mother and one sister. 
JOHN A. SULLIVAN '44 of Washington, D.C., is deceased, according to word recently leceived in the Alumni Office. No detaib. 
SR. ^LUUE ANGELE (O'NEILL) MA'45, a native of Mishawaka, Ind., died January 25 after an extended Illness. Sr. Marie taught at Chicago, Evanston and Fort Wayne high schoob and at St. Mary-of-the-Woods College. She abo had been a local superior at Immaculata Junior College, Wash­ington, D.C. She was the daughter of the late William P. '06. Survivors include a brother, Den­nis J. '26 and two sbters. 
DR. EDWARD J. SANDERS '47, a fellow In surgery in the Mayo Foundation from 1952 to 1956, and president of the Association of Fellows of the Ma>-o Foundation in 1955, died of cancer in Omaha, Neb., on February 3. He has been an instructor in surgery In the Creighton U. School of Medicine since 1956 and also represented the commandant of 
. the Ninth Naval Dbt. He was faculty lecturer in surgery at St. Catherine's Hospital School of Nursing in Omaha. His wife and two daughters survive him. 
JOHN J. LASKOWSKI '50 of Buffalo. N.Y., died December 10 according to word received from hb wife. 
EARL M. RAUEN '50 of Western Springs, lit, died March 11 according to word received at the .Alumni Office. He b survived by hb wife and daughter. 
REV. T. O. THEODOSIU5 (summer '53) died of cancer in Calcutta, South India, on November 
10. He was the principal of the Carmel college there. 
THOMAS W. STUBLER JR. 'M of Schenectady, N.Y., died December 18, 1963, according to word received at the .Alumni Office. 
REV. RICHARD J. NOVAK CSC '57, home­tov^ni Johnstown, Pa., died in Dacca, East Pakbtan, January 16. Fr. Nov*ak studied theology In Le-Mans, France, and v%*as ordained in the church built by Fr. Basil Moreau, founder of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross. In Oct., '62, he arrived in Dacca to study the Bengali language. Following Easier, '63, he received hb first priestly assignment, to teach in Notre Dame College of Dacca. 
JULIUS R.A.AB LLD'58, Chancellor of Austria, died Januarv 8. 
LT. EDWIN G. SHANK JR. '59 of Winamac, Ind., died March 25 while on an Air Force mission in Vict Nam. Survivors include hb wife, four children, parents and paternal grandmother. 
WILLIAM B. GULLEY '60, Macon, Ga., was killed in an automobile accident In June, 1962, ac­cording to word recently received at the Alumni Office. 
REV. RALPH SCHMIDT O.Fkaem., iLA'62, died of a heart attack shortly after offering Mass on February 4. .At the time of hb death he was an instructor at Premontre High School, Green Bay, Wb. 
SR. MARY ARTHUR CSC died February 20 at St. Mary's Convent after a critical Illness. She had a long career In teaching and prior to her retire­ment had been assigned to the Holy Cross Convent at Notre Dame. 
BRO. KEVIN DONEG.AN CSC died January 17 in St. Joseph's Hospital of respiratory com^plu^tions." He was a prefect at ND for two years and then joined the Ave Maria Press staff in 1928. He left there In 1945 and lived first at the Community House and then at the Infirmary on the campus. Three sbters survive him. 
SYMPATHY 

WALTER L. CLEMENTS '14, on the death of hi5 wife, Febniary 11. PAUL C. ROMWEBER '25, on the death of his mother, February 21. FREDERICK J. CLEMENTS LLB'26, on the death of his wife in February. ROBERT E. BANNON '23, on the death of his wife in January. ALBERT F. GURY JR. '28, on the death of his wife, February 8. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 43 
LESTER a HEGELE '28, on the death of his wife, November 2. ROBERT J. MOHLMAN LLB'28, on the death of his wife, March 17. SAMUEL E. RICHARDS '30, on the death of his father, December 2. FRANCIS J. HOLLAND '31, on the death of his %vife in October. EDWARD P. LANGENFELD '31, on the death of his wife in January'. 
A. CHARLES HITZELBERGER '32, on the death of his wile, September I. 
J. BARRETT BELTZ '33 on tlie death of his father, February 13. JOHN J. JORDAN '34, on the death of his mother, March 29. ROBERT C. ALBERT '36, on the death of his father in December. FRANCIS a BARBUSH '37, on the death of his parents in 1963. CHARLES C. BOROWSKI '38, on the death of his mother, December 19. BISHOP BERNARD J. TOPEL '38, on the death of his mother, February' 26. LEO F. RAYMO.ND JR. '43, on the death of his father, February 4. %VILLUM J. STEWART '43, on the death of his father, February 19. REV. WILLUM GRAHAM CSC '44, on the death of his father, March 9. JOSEPH D. USINA '43, on the death of his father, February 1. EDWARD F. AYLWARD '48, on the death of his father, February 2. JOSEPH A. DO\XE '49, on the death of his father, Fcbruar>* 10. ROLAND A. KELLY JR. '50, on the death of his father, March 28. ROBERT F. JOYCE '53, on the death of his father, February 25. THOMAS J. REYNOLDS '54, on the death of his father, February 28. JAMES L. BYRNE '57, on the death of his mother, October 9. JOHN W. CRILLY '58, on the death of his mother, October 1. JOHN F. DUNTf '58, on the death of his father in October. GARY L. VONDRAN '59, on the death of his father, January 22. RICHARD A. XIE.ANEY '60, on the death of hb father, February' 18. 
JOHN THILM.«> '60, on the death of his father, March 1. 


50-YEAR CLUB 

In Januar>', after tlie forms were locked up on this column for the Fcb.-March issue, the death of FR. THOMAS E. BURKE CSC '07 %%-as mourned around the nation — nowhere more profoundly than in the Chicago Tribune, where the initials TEB were attached to Hghl verse in the "Wake of the News" column for about 50 years. The Trib printed a lengthy sampler of Father Tom's more celebrated poems, including "In BalI)*more," "No Time," and "The Good Thief," selected by the column's current custodian, DAVE CON­DON '45. The South Bend Tribune sports editor, JOE DOYLE *49, devoted his column to TEB's lilting tribute to the great baskctball-track-football­coaching trium\iratc, "Kcogan and Nick and Rock." Fr. Tom joins his equally famous brother, FR. EUGENE BURKE, the minstrel of Sorin Hall, who died a year ago. 
Word also arrived in late Januar>' on the death of a prolific contributor to these pages. In an old journalistic tradition lie wrote his own obituar>' back in 1958, and it was received in this form from the executor of his estate, the Liberty Trust Co. of Cumberland, Md.: 
"Word has reached the ALUMNUS of ilic re­cent death of PAUL R. MARTIN-DILLON '09. Better known on the campus by the shorter form of his name, PAUL MARTIN, he was one of the last survi^"ors of the group known as 'Notre Dame Ufcrs.' He entered the old preparatory school as a student in Carroll Hall at the age of 14, and continued on through college. In later yean he did graduate work at Loyola University, Chicago, and held the degrees of Bachelor of Philosophy and Master of Arts in Sociology. 
**During the greater part of his life he was a nci\*spaper \\Titer and editor in Indianapolis, New-York, Washington and Chicago. For a year he was associate editor of the News-Times in South Bend, going from that paper to the Evening Times, Cumberland, Mar^'Iand, where he was editor for more than 20 years. At one time he wa;. 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July^ 1964 
SPOKANE —Elmer E. Johnston '23 (left) received a scroll as ND Man of the Year from Tom Lally '06 at the UND Night dinner of the Spokane Club in April. (Spokane Spokesman-Re\'iew Photo.) 
a member of the Notre Dame faculty and secre­
tary of the Nieuwland Foundation. 
"Paul was well known as a writer of books, 

his works including The Gospel !n Action, The 
Franciscan Heritage, Sur\-e>- of a Decade, The Ftnt 
Cardinal of the West, Realism in the Modem 
Drama and Gold, Blue and Emerald Green. He 
was the author of many short stories and articles 
published in both Catholic and secular magazines. 
"In recognition of his contributions to Franciscan 

literature he was granted the unusual distinction 
of afHiliation to the Order of Friars Minor (Fran­
ciscans) by the Minister General of that order 
at Rome. In 1935 he founded the fraternity of 
Our Lady of the Lake, Third Order of St. Francis, 
on the Notre Dame campus and this organization 
SISTER WILLIAM of St. Mary^s Hospital, Rochester, Minn., known as Sister Notre Dame to all at the Mayo Clinic, got a blanket in token of honorary Monogram Club membership for 50 years of service to N D athletes such as Knute Rockne and generations of Holy Cross Fathers. She is slowed down by illness but remains an ardent Irish **subway altmina.*' 
has been an important part of the religiotu life of the University ever since. 
"Paul was a great-nephew of REV. PATRICK DILLON CSC, second president of Notre Dam4 ) and REV. JASIES DILLON CSC, a chaplain of the Irish Brigade of the Union Army during the Civil War. Likewise of Sister Ligouri Dillon CSC, a pioneer nun at St. Kfary's. Many of his relatives were student at Notre Dame or St. Mary's. His sole survivors are cousins linng in the United States and Ireland." 
Sympathy to the survivors of these tvi'o prolific authors and also to those of other semicentenarians reported deceased in recent months, not quite so articulate perhaps, but just as loyal Notre Dame men: FRS. STANISLAUS GRUSZA '03, LOUIS KELLEY '07 and WM. MINNICK '10, all CSC; JOSEPH SULLIVAN '01, FRED CONNOR 'OS­JOHN O'CONNOR '05, REID GRAY '08, DI^.) EDWARD SUMMERS '09, JAMES HOPE '11 and GEORGE PHILBROOK '12. Pray that all have entered into eternal glor>'. 
Lest the preceding paragraphs give the impres* sion that the Golden Boys have all given up the ghost, the next few items concern some 50-Ycar brethren who are still very much in the saddle. 
The recent annual meeting of the St. Joseph County Bar Assn. in South Bend honored 11 law>-ers who have practiced 50 years or more. The veterans included JOHN W, SCHINDLER SR. 
LL.B
 '09, GEORGE SANDS LL.B '10. and FLOYD 

O.
 JELLISON LL.B '13. 


ALBERT KUHLE, secretary of the Class of 'I ^ reports in his column below that FR. CHARLE9'' DOREMUS '06 is recovering nicely from an ill* ness suffered over the Christmas holidays, hanng \-isited him in the spring. 
The Alumni Board Reunion roster in early February included an honor roll of distinguished semicentenarians. Including DANIEL J. O'CON­NOR '05 of Lincolnwood, III., a baseball stand­out; WILLIAM A. DRAPER '07 of Evanston, III., a great star of track and field; and WILLIA^I 
C. SCHMITT *10 of Portland, Ore., a football veteran. Among those conspicuous by their ab­sence was HARRY G. HOGAN 'W of Fort Wayne, Ind., founder of the ND Foundation. 
Late but hearty congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS E. VENEZL\NI '00 of Jackson Heights, L.L, N.Y., on their 50th wedding anniversary last November. Lou, retired from the Singer Corp.^^ is a great ND volunteer in the N.Y. area and man ^ ages to visit the campus annually. The Venezlanis have two daughters, seven grandchildren and at least one great-grandchild. A picture of their Golden Jubilee "anniversary waltz" in the Long Island Star-Journal shows them looking like a couple at the Sophomore Cotillion. Hope Lou w^I permit us to borrow it for the next issue. 

CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1914 Subject: Golden Jubilee 
REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 1964 
! 
Walter L. Clements 
•14 Tower Building South Bend, Ind. 

FRANCES P. MULCAHY was not inappropriate­ly fialled "Caesar" by his classmates of *I4 and other friends of his younger da>-s, for in 1946 he was retired with the rank of Lt. General of the US Marine Aviation Corps. He wants to return to attend our 50th Reunion. Commissioned 2nd Lt. in the US Marine Corps in June of 1917 on recom^ mendation of the president of the Univenltj^ then FR. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, he was or­dered to flight training in October, 1917. From that time he ser\'ed continuously in Marine Corps a%iatIon until retirement. He sailed for France with the 1st Marine AWation Force In July, 1918, and because of lack of airplanes he flew with the 218th Squadron, Royal Air Force, in September and October bombing operations against German targets in Belgium. 
After WW I he ser\-ed at ^'arlous stations in the US and in Haiti, Santo Domingo and Nicaragua. He graduated from US Army Command and Gen­eral Staff School in 1929 and from the Naval War College in 1936. He was an instructor for Marine Corps Schools In 1929-31. 
In \VW II Gen. Mulcahy served as observer with 

the RAF in Egypt and Libya from 1941 to 1942.  commanded all the Allied air forces at Guadal­
€e 
nal from 1942 to the final capture of the island 

in February, 1943; then New Georgia air forces in the capture of ^fu^da and in operations from that area from July to September, 1942. He com­manded the Tactical Air Force, 10th Army, from the initial landing throush the major portion of the Okina\tfa Campaign, April to June, 1945. 
He was promoted to Brigadier General in Sep­tember, 1942, and to Major General in Februarj-, 1944. He retired because of physical disability on April 1, 1946, and was ad\-anced to Lt. General by reason of combat decoration in WW I. 
He then received an LLB degree from California 

Western U. in June, 1952, and was admitted to the ^^flalifornia Bar in July, 1954, but he never engaged ^2i active practice. 
He was married to Elizabeth Bertrand of St. Martinville, La., in November, 1934. They have two children: Thomas, graduated from ND with an AB (cum laude) in 1958, and BMus., in ab­sentia, in 1959; and Patricia graduated from San Diego College for Women (Religious of Sacred Heart) with an AB in 1959. 
Now when you meet the General as he comes back for his Fiftieth Reunion, don't hesitate to call him "Caesar" as you did long ago. It brings back memories of his youth — and he Hkes it. 
From the Alumni Office: On Feb. 18, just after he had filed the copy 
©ibove. Secretary WALTER CLEMENTS suffered the sudden loss of his beloved wife, Lorctta Doran Clements. Sincercst sympathy and prayers of the Alumni Assn. are sent to Walter and his children, including WALTER JR. *51 and BILL CLEMENTS '55. 
Class Secretary Clements has not let his bereave­ment curtail his activities on behalf of '14 on the eve of the Golden Jubilee Reunion, June 12-14, so please heed his letters and help to make this the largest 50th anniversary turnout the campus has C%'er seen. 
As if in honor of the Golden Jubilee, this is the year of the greatest tributes to the late great KNUTE ROCKNE since the death of the '14 Class' most famous member in 1931. Recently the Chicago Tribune printed nearly a full-page feature on "Rock" by sportscribe Paul GalHco as one of the 
/^"Golden People of a Golden Decade in Sports." 
^^n d this past spring's 23rd Annual Rockne Me­morial Communion Breakfast of the St. Joseph Valley alumni, addressed by such as HARRY STUHLDREHER '25, MOOSE KRAUSE '34 and Rock's successor ARA PARSEGHIAN, was the big­gest event in many years. Finally, the entire ND alumni body will celebrate "Rock Day" July 5 at the famed resort of Cedar Point, O., "Disneyland of the Midwest," where the Rockne-Dorais pass play was developed — part of Notre Dame Week, the entire July 4 week at the Point. 
Leading the festivities, of course, vnW be RAY MILLER, dean of the Miller Clan, all of whom lifeguarded like Rock and GUS DORAIS at the Point. Seattle's JOE WALSH was the first to call 
^—attention to omission of Ray's name on the '14 
^^oster, which was found to be the result of Ray's temporarily joining the *15 Class through the over­zealous efforts of the late JIM S.\NFORD as that class' secretary. Ray has been suitched back to the Class with which he received his LL.B. 
Joe was also first to spot the clerical error where­by the late Secretary RON O'NEILL was listed among the living. This was a *'felix culpa" to the extent that Ron will loom large in spirit June 12-14. 
The Reunion Chaplain will be FR. SALVATORE FANELLI CSC. Father Sal had a large picture in the South Bend Tribune recently when he offi­ciated in the opening of the cornerstone of his own St. Joseph Church, erected in 1881 and razed re­cently for the building of a new church. 
M Just before deadline WALTER CLEMENTS sent us a letter he had received, on winch he had scribbled that it "moved me to tears. JAKE GEIGER was art editor of the DOME. I was associate editor. BILL GALVIN, who was editor, died this last fall." The letter, from Sr. Mary Jacob Gciger OP, said in part: "In bclialf of my deceased uncle, JACOB R. GEIGER, I wish to congratulate the celebrants of the golden anni­versary alumni. . . . Father Geiger died about sbc months after his ordination to the priesthood. I am his namesake in religion and consequently feci that I should send greetings. . . . Since I never knew him, my knowledge of him is small. I am trying to compile enough data to compose a pro­file of his life. .. . I believe he 5er\-ed table in the dining hall. I have seen a copy of the year-
FRANK "SHAG" SHAUGHNESSY '06 
(left), football-baseball great, turned over 
the gavel of president of the National 
Assn. of Professional Baseball Leagues 
("Minors") to Phil Piton *28 in San 
Diego last December. Shag, retired as In­
ternational League Boss and living in Afon­
treal, is board chairman and %vas interim 
president after the death of George Traut­
man last summer. 
book, but since my father's death we have been 
unable to locate it. I also have seen pictures of 
his room at Notre Dame with his old ^forris chair 
and his Summa and other texts. He was pictured 
there with his roommate, but I do not know his 
name. 
"I would greatly appreciate correspondence with 

anyone who knew him as a student. . . . May God 
bless you, His good Catholic laymen, who set 
before men Christian principles in modern times." 
Sister Jacob's address is: Dominican Sisters, St. 

James the Less Convent, 1614 Oakland Park Ave., 
Columbus 24, Ohio. 
•| C Albert A. Kuhle 
i ^ 117 South Sunset Ave. La Grange, 111. 

A response to a Christmas card addressed to REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS CSC brought neu-s that he had been confined in the infinnar>' for five weeks including the holidays. He returned to Corby early in January feeling much better. Mrs. Kuhle and I had a very pleasant visit with him on March 16 and found him in good spirits. We are indeed grateful to him for escorting us on a visit to Sacred Heart Church and the tomb of His Eminence JOHN F. O'HARA, formerly president of the Uni­versity; Bishop at Rochester, New York; Arch­bishop and finally Cardinal of Philadelphia. It was my happy privilege to have known him while he was a student residing in Old College. Mv brother HENRY J. KUHLE JR. was also housed there so I made frequent visits there. 
Many if not all the students from 1911 through 1915 will remember ALVIN H. "HEINE" BERGER who w*as a regular on the Notre Dame Football squad during those years. In a note from McAllcn, Tex., where he spent part of the winter, he said he had learned about my operation from the Feb. 
— March issue and expressed hope that I would be at our Golden Annivcrsar>' Reunion of the Class of 1915. If the way I feel now is any indication I'll surely be there to meet, I hope, all the liv­ing members of our Class. 
BOB ROACH (Robert L. Roach), president of the Class of 1915 is a regular correspondent and early in March acknowledged rcceinng my greet­ing on his birthday, Feb. 27. It »-as indeed good news that both he and Mrs. Roach are improv­ing in health. He appreciated learning about Father Doremus and said he would send him a note. Since he is one of the very few priests of our time other members of our Class may abo want to drop him a note. 
Because of an incorrect address my letter of last Sept. 15 to JOSEPH J. HEALY was returned imclaimed. Eventually reached, Joe wrote: "I am looking forward to 1965 and, the good Lord per­mitting, will be on hand at ND for that ampidooB occasion." His current address is 2501 Castlewood Dr., Sacramento, Calif. 95821. 
As secretary of the Class of 1915, I am still very anxious to hear from other members o£ oar Class. Of special interest would be the follovring: whether still working or retired, special happeningB and experiences, such as hobbies, trips taken, and information about family, including grandchildrea. Also whether you plan to attend our Golden An­niversary Retmion in June, 19^. 
From the Alumni Office: Since JIM SANFORD wasn't around to celebrate the 40th anniversary of his charter membershq» on the Alumni Board, DR. GEORGE SHUSTER ^•f3S the only former director present at the Board Reunion in February to represent the Class of '15. 
'16 Grover F. Miller 220 9th St Radnc, Wis. 

From the Alumni Office: Friends of TIMOTHY P. GALVIN flocked to an April testimonial banquet in Tim's honor in Gary, Ind. Bishop Grutka, national K of C treas­urer Francis Heazel, Supreme Knight John Mc-Devitt and FR. JOHN CAVANAUGH CSC '23 were among the celebrities gathered in Tun's honor. He was hailed for nearly 50 years of dedicated Columbianism which included service on ths Su­preme Board of Directors and as Deputy Supreme Knight, earning him such honors as being named a Knight of St. Gregory by Pope Pius XH^ Man of the Year by the B'nai Brith and Calumet Re^on ND Club. Tim was one of the leading lights of the Alumni Board Reunion In February. 
Ed%vard J. McOskcr 
•17 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, HI. 

From the .Alumni Office: 
The retirement of WILUAM J. HYNES as claims counsel for Employers Mutual Casualty Co. was announced in the spring in Des Moines, Iowa. He was presented with an inscribed silver tea service as a retirement gift. Bill was vice-president and secretary of the company until his resignation Bxc years ago, but he stayed on as claims counsel and \rill continue as a director. A law school grad, he also attended St. Ambrose College in Daven­port and practiced law along with a coal business before entering the insurance business in the early 1930s. 
ED MOLONEY, longtime president of the Top o* Michigan ND Club, visited the campus in the spring. Ed's daughter Peggy, who attends St. Mary's Academy in South Bend, spent her Easter holiday with her parents at the \Vhttcomb Hotel in St. Joseph, Mich., where Ed went "to test their baths for my arthritic carcass." 
BERNARD VOLL, DAN HILG.ARTNER and DR. LEO O'DONNELL, past presidents of the Alumni Association, and FRED MAHAFFEY and LEO VOGEL, former members of the Alumni Board, attended the reunion of the National Board of Directors on the campus, the weekend of February 1. 
The names are all listed alphabetically, more or less, except for Bcmie Voll, who wzs captain, man* ager, pitcher, catcher and first to bat for the "war rent" class of Seventeen, as Class Poet DUKE RILEY, termed us. 
Bernie, please note: HARRY SCOTF of In­dianapolis has gone on record in a recent letter to Hilgartner that he is the progenitor of 18 grand­children, including a grandson, who is now a stu­dent on the campus. This must be some kind of m record or is it? Let's hear from some of you Seven­teeners. 
Finally the following description of the scholar^ ship will appear in the University of Notre Dame General Bulletin: "The EL!klER C. TOBIN Me­morial Scholarship: established in 1963 by Mrs. Elmer C. Tobin of Elgin, Illinois, in memory ol her husband who was a devoted Notre Dame Alumnus of the class of 1917. The amount of $300.00 will be made available for each of two years. The au*ard will be continued by additional deposits at the discretion of the donor. The re­cipient will be named by the University of Notre Dame Scholarship Committee in accordance wiA its regular procedures." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 45 
'1ft George Waage 3305 Wright\vood Ave. Chicago, HI. 

Hi, Ole Timer. Sorry to report that we have 
lost two of our classmates. D.^NIEL F. McGLYNN 
JR.. LLB *18, died Dec. 20, 1963. CHARLES P. 
DUTRIEUX '18 passed a^ray Feb. 6, 19M. JAMES 
£. ARMSTRONG. Alumni Secy., so informed your 
scc>'. stating that a letter had been forwarded to 
each family — quoting in part: "Our Mass will 
be offered by FR. THO.\L\S J. 0*DOXXELL 
CSC as tlic most significant and appropnate con­
dolence on the passing of a member of the Notre 
Dame Family." 
Your sec>*. also forwarded a note of sincere 
sympathy to both families — and assured them 
that both Dan and Charlie will be missed and well 
remembered by their classmates this June — as 
well as at our GOLDEN JUBILEE Reunion in 
1968. Comdr. CHAS. CALL, our president, will 
beyond a doubt see that proper and appropriate 
action will reverently be taken in their memory. 
Tliis grief brings to our mind the thought about 
that little white paper you will leave behind. It 
is known that "BIG FRANK" RYDZEWSKI and 
aUo BILL BRADBURY will have ND remembered 
in their last testaments. 
The committee on wills has suggested that 
WALTER MILLER leave a block of Cleveland 
and that ERNIE "STUFFIE" BURKE remember 
ND with a lot from the Loop in Orlando, Fla. 
No foolin% **Ye Ole Hmcrs," this is not a *'Drive" 
— this comes from one's heart, and that white paper should be taken care of now! 
REV, C. J. WTLLIAMS (St. Malachy Rectory, Rantoul, 111.) enjoyed the prints of pictures taken at last year's 45ih Class Reunion. 
Your turn will be next. The reason for having you see *cm is to give me an opportunity' of writing you and hoping thereby to whet your interest in returning to the campus this June. 
Had lunch at the Morris Inn with JIM ARM­STRONG and JOHN LAUGHLIN. Need I add that I had a. most enjoyable time? Showed the slides and was pleased that so much interest was expressed is seeing *cm. Jim A, could not stay as he was "off" in the air going places — plus having a head full of thoughts about his trip to Hawaii. 
Report comes in that Comdr. Call has been successful in bringing cheer to some patienu at Polk County Hospital, Bastom, Fla., by ha\*ing PETE RONCHETTI, JOHN LEM.MER, GEO. HAR­BERT, MORRIE STARRETT, JOHN VOELKERS and others send 'em greeting cards. 
The Commander is also justly proud of his son Charles Vf. Call Jr., who recently became president of Noma Corp. and also of Ward Baking Co., both of New York Cit>-. Charlie also has a marncd daughter. Botli son and daughter •vaca­tioned in Winter Haven, Fla., at the "Ole Man's" place. 
I know that Charlie vn\l be delighted to have as his next house guest FATHER ^MLLLVMS — who will justly need a vacation and rest after Lenten services and programs. 
Received a note from JAMES F. LOGAN, the ole track star, tliat since he retired — about two years ago — his address is 2951 South Fillmore Way, Denver, Colo. 
"DOC" WTULEN writes that he enjoyed the pictures and — quoting In part — "It was indeed nice to see some of your plaj'mates of b>*gone days. . . . Notre Dame really meant a lot to me and everything that went with it.** Don't ask me to add anything — YOU think it over and agree how TRUE. "Doc'* is on his way to the ^Vest Indies for a \-acation. Our best wishes go with him. 
JOHN A. LEMMER states that he went to Fla. last fall to see Orange Bowl activities, intending to stay ten days, and stayed two months playing golf four times a week. Proves Jolm is enjoying good health. 
Owe a word of thanks to GEORGE E. HARBERT for identifying the fellows in the pictures. If I re­member correctly he and his lovely wife are headed west to Honolulu, sort of a second honej-moon. Hope the both of *em make the campus this summer. 
JA^fES L. SWEENEY writes that JI.M HANLON is about the same and not getting around verj­much. Sweeney is looking forward to returning to the campus in June. ^Vondcring what will happen to the lowering that takes place on Sundays. CARL.'ErON BEH names Sweeney King of ibc Craft. 
Smcerely hope that REV. GEO. HOLDERITH, CSC is enjosing the picture I sent him taken last June at tlie Alumni Dinner. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1964­
WILLIAM A. GRADY from Carrollton, Texas 
comes thru with a card stating he has a note 
from DANIEL HILGARTNER JR. Both of 
'em looking forward to returning to campus this 
June. The>* are REAL Ole Timers — Class of *17. 
While having lunch witlt Armstrong and Laughlin, 
I told *cm that when I get up to those pearly 
gates (?) and am asked what I am doing there, 
I'm going to say that I want to see FR. ^MLLIAMS 
— as I have some pictures of him that I took at our Notre Dame 1968 GOLDEN JUBILEE Class Reunion. 
Suggest that you too better plan to be in the PICTURE. Hope to be seeing you all on the campus in June. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1919 
Subject: 43th Anniversary 
REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 19 64 
IIQ Theodore G. Rademalicr 
• ' Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Ind. 

From the .Alumni Oilicc: Old reliable PAUL FENLON and .MAURIE CARROLL were on hand for the National Alumni Board Reunion in Februar\', raising comment that such a small class as '19 can be represented by two sucli sterling characters. On the eve of the 45th it seems that these two practically constitute the Class — except for the occasional appearance of busy Secretary TED RADEMAKE R and the reminiscences of erudite GEORGE HALLER . How about some of you other Nineteeners coming out of the bushes as a dress rehearsal for the Golden Jubilee? You, LOU FINSKE, so active in alumni clubs and the theater business down in Florida, and you FRANK S\\'EENEY of South Bend's Holiday Inn, father of an alumnus and a former ND Club president. There are many others and you all know who they are, so come! 
I^A James H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Rd. Rochester, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
Judge CLIFFORD O'SULLU'AN joined STE­PHEN ROTH '31 and another federal judge on the panel w*hicli threw out a Michigan legislative reapportionment bill as unconstitutional. 
New Yorker JOHN T, BALFE represented the Class on campus in Februar>- at the 40th Anni­versary* Reunion of the Alumni Board. 
•Jl Dan W. Duffy 
1101 Superior BIdg. 
Cleveland} Ohio 

I note vvtth a great deal of pleasure that JOE TILLMAN has retired to Florida. 
JOE TOOLEN, who followed us out by a year or so, is now at Cape Kennedy. I am sure he would be open for a golf game if anyone was so inclined. 
I have not heard from JOE BRANDY or LEO KELLEY or CHARLIE DAVIS lately. I wanted to have a word from them for this issue. 
Governor Otto Kocrncr of Illinois was in our town a couple of weeks ago. \\'e got to talking about ROG KILEY and tlie Governor was most high in his praise of our fine Judge. 
Sympathy to the families of CONN HORTON and others w-ho have passed on in the past months. I expect we had better get to talking about our Reunion in 1966 and start laying plans. 
More from me later. 
From the Alumni Office: BILL SHERRY was on hand from Tuba, Okla., and LEO KELLEY from Syracuse, N.Y., to repre­sent the class at the Alumni Board Reunion on campus in February. In March DAN DUFFY got a letter from CARL 
E. SCHUBERT wliicli he for%*-arded to the office. It read in part: 
".Again, I must write you that mv address now is 6160 East Second Avenue, Hialeah, Florida, 33012. . 
"Like JOE TILLMAN, I picked Florida to re ^ 
lire. " 
"As you might know, I taught in the department { 
of mechanical engineering at the University of i 
Illinois. Illinois has its own retirement plan and 
one can retire at age 60 with full retirement pay-; 
ments. My title at the U. of Illinois was associate 
professor." 
'22 ^' 175 Landing ^' "^^ ^^^  Rd. No. Rochester, N.Y. 

Since your scribe rendered his last formal repor^ of activities of men of '22, some of our finest class^ mates have been summoned by God to further aug-| mcnt our group in Heaven. It is probably the/ greatest exodus of '22 men from earth for so; brief a period since we have existed as a class.( Here are the names of the grand men who havei died, together with the dates of their demise, and;' names of their home cities: JAMES L. DEERING,;, Nashwlle, Dec. 23; R. FREDERICK GLUECKERT,: Ariington Heights, III., Dec. 21; JAMES BARRYi HOLTON, Dallas, Feb. 14; WALTER E.KLAUER,; Dubuque, Feb. 14; BERNARD J. McCAFFERY,-Soutli Bend, Dec. 27. Please do remember all \n\ your prayers, ako their loved ones still on earth. ^ 
It is to be regretted that we cannot tell youj^ all about the very recent business and socia^ activities of the aforementioned. We do earnestly C inWtc '22 men, who can furnish such information | to do so. All in the St. Joe Valley were friends t'­of Bemie McCaffery. The Fcbruary-Slarch issue of ^­thc ALUMNUS gave detailed information about f him. Barry Wolton for many years ^vas executive \ assistant to the president of Southern Methodist >: University in Dallas, and was an officer in Na\*al • Aviation Rcsen-c dating back to WW I. ^Valter • Klauer ^vas an executive of the Klauer Mfg. Co. y of Dubuque, Iowa. 
Did you know that thus far there are 24 men ^ in the professional football Hall of Fame and that I-two of these names are on vour class roster — '^ EARL L. (CURLY) LAMBEAU, a co-founder ol% the Green Bay Packers, and GEORGE TRAFTON, f: a vcr\' stalwart and colorful center with the i Chicago Bears from 1920 to 1932? According tc ^ the Chicago Tribune, George was the first pi\*ot-™ man to rove on defense and also the first to f snap the ball with one hand. We had thought ':: the last mentioned honor properly belonged to -: "OJAY" LARSON, at least, as far as football at >, ND is concerned. Curly Lambeau was enshrined In ^ the pro Hall of Fame as one of 17 charter Tnzm-I bers last year. Trafton is one of seven additional ' men n:uned in February. Our congratulations and T best wishes to Curly and George, and a special f salute to "Ojay" Larson. :­
VINCE HANRAHAN u*as In New York for the/^ Syracuse game. He saw a classmate, HON. JAAIES Ti MURPHY and wife from Bridgeport, Conn., and •% contacted BILL MURPHY and JUDD HYLAND | by telephone. Vince retired from U.S. government^ ser\'ice in November. The Hanrahans have four^ crandchildren. Thev reside at 3712 Stewart Dr., j Chevy Chase 15, Md. The FRANK BLOEMERs | of Louisville also were in New York for that game. ^ 
Mildred Stuhldreher, widow of our beloved de-: ceased WALTER J. STUHLDREHER, writes: 1 "Best of greetings from all the Stuhldrehcrs. My ; grandmother bracelet is getting heavier — II grand­children, and two more expected in the spring — 5 and oldest is 6. I am still enjoying teaching, i It is a challenge — keeping mc bus>' during the \ winter months, but always I look fonx-ard to i summer and golf." i 
Kathy and FRANK CONNELLY of 859 Hugo j Dr.^ Arcadia, Calif., visited their old home town i of San Mateo, CaliL, late in '63. While there \ they had a dinner visit with JERRY JONES. ^ Ilcne Byrne, widow of our dear deceased EDWIN , 
J. BYRNE, snrnt last summer in Ireland and the Holy Land. The A. HAROLD \VEBERs of Dia­mond Lake, Mich., and South Bend report seeing PAUL McDERMOTT, now of Florida, who was up north for the Nav>' game. Also, the Webers had nice visits with Margaretta and JACK HIGGINS i of Birmingham, Mich. i 
We are indebted to DAN YOUNG for some \ most welcome information about BILL POWERS. \ It is reported that Bill did a short stint in in­dustry before deciding on the teaching profession. He taught at Alliance College for 19 years be­fore going to PennsyK'ania State U., where cur* i rently he is associate dean of the College of Science. A daughter, Sylvia, lives at 547 Hilaire Rd., in 
St. Da\-ids, Pa. Her husband is an editor for the Philaddphia Bulletitt. Phyllis Heneghaa widow of our dear deceased 
^SEORGE P. writes: "This has been a very eventful year (1963) for us. I visited son, Jim, and family in New Orleans three times. Jim gave two talks on his gcrmfree study field — one in Boston and one in Los Angeles. He is hoping that his Louisiana State U. will receive a substantial grant from NIH for gennfrcc studies." 
At the First General Reunion of present and past members of the National Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, held on the Campus Jan. 30 thru Feb. 2., our class made a fine show­ing. Those attending were: J. RALPH CORYN, JOHN HIGGINS, CLARENCE MANION, JOSEPH 
R. STEWART, DR. MATTHEW ^VEIS and your 
secretary* Others who found it impossible to at­^;cn d included EDWARD B. BAILEY, EUGENE ^KENNEDY, and HON. ALFONSO SCOTT. 
We rejoice that FRANK "RANGY" MILES was elected president of the Monogram Club for the current year. Congratulations and best wishes from your classmates. Rangy. MORGAN SHEEDY states he was shocked to read of the death of the popular and lovable JOHN "TUFFY" HART. ED­DIE PFEIFFER '22 and CORNELIUS PFEIFFER '23 of LouisWlIc, Ky., have been operating joint!** in the Fire and Casualty Insurance Business since 1927. In the early part of the year, your secretary-had many nice visits with them and also with JOE DONALDSON of '23 who is connected with the Boland-Maloney Lumber Co. of Louisville. 
^Too , your scribe caught FRANK BLOEMER 
"jus t before he departed for Fla. Mary Dv\-yer, daughter of the WILFRED F. D\\'YERSs of Lon­don, Ohio, is attending Wheeling College (Jesuit Co-ed), Wheeling, W. Va. JIM WHEELER, who has been afliliated with the Essential Chemicals Corp. of Milwaukee for many years, is taking it a lot easier with Jim Jr. running the business. The son is a graduate of the US Xaval Academy. Papa Jim writes: "I shall be happy to be included in the Class of '22, which actually is my adopted class having lost one year in \f\V I. Give my regards to all the boys." 
There is considerable activity in our Travel Department. Before Easter Loretta and DAN YOUNG were touring around Africa. They first reported in from Walvis Bay, South ^Vcst Africa, (Feb. 23) and later from Victoria Falls, South Rhodesia, (Marcli 16) and still ahead of them, 
^^hey were anticipating visits to the Wanki Game Reserve, Kariba Dam, Salisburg (the capital) Bcira, Mombasa, and possibly the Aswan Dam on the Nile. Later in April, Margaretta and JACK HIG­GINS started on a European trip. As yet, we do not have a complete report of all who expect to attend the World Fair in New York. 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
LEO J. LOVETT of Summitt, N.J., formcriy of South Bend, has retired as manager of woodwork­ing engineering ser\'ices for the Singer Co. after 41 years with the firm, most recently in New York. 
JIM CROWLEY '25 (left) received the an­nual Touchdown Club award from class­mate George Vergara, president of the New York organization^ at a January dinner. Hugh Dcvore also received the first award memorializing Joseph Byrne Jr. '15 from Joseph M. Byrne III '47. 
Leo joined Singer in the South Bend plant after graduation and seven years later was named assistant superintendent of engineering in South Bend, be* coming superintendent in 1937. He advanced through several superintendencies to the executive ofGccs in 1954. With a married son and granddaughter, the Lovctts plan to make their home in Southern Micliigan. 
South Bend's celebration of Engineers Week was capped by the selection of ND Prof. WALTER L, SHILTS as Engineer of the Year by the St. Joe Valley chapter of the Indiana Society of Professional Engineers. Holder of civil engineering and math degrees from ND, Walter has taught since 1922 and teaclies civil engineering at the U. of Southern California in the summer. 
RAY GIRARDIN, former veteran police reporter for the Detroit Times, was recently sworn in as Detroit's police commissioner. 
J. FRANK MILES, already serving as national president of the Monogram Club, was recently re-elected president of the South Bend Board of Zoning Appeab. 
The Class of '22 nosed out '17 in bringing the most delegates to the National Board Reunion in February on the campus: Secretary GERALD "KID" ASHE, J. RALPH CORYN, JOHN T. HIGGINS (who gave us the item of Girardin and others), CLARENCE "PAT" MANION, JOSEPH 
R. STEWART and DR. MATT WEIS. Pat has been making headlines on the civil rights front with hts "Manion Forum" broadcasts. 
'9 ^ Louis V. Bruggner 
2165 Riverside Dr. 
South Bend, Ind. 

News, other than that of bereavements, remains at an abated pace at the '23 secretariat, due partly to something of a letdown following our 40th reunion last summer, and partly to seasonal distractions of the secretary. 
EDWARD G. DtGREE, Detroit, Mich., died early in March according to word from the Alumni Office. The exact date and the cause of death are not known here. Ed seni'ed as assistant football coach for a time under JIMMY PHELAN at Pur­due and later as line coach under GUS DORAIS at Detroit University. He was \"ariously assistant 
U.S.
 district attorney at Detroit and in pri\*atc practice in Detroit until his death. His widow, Slella DeGree, lives at 172 Lewlston, Grosse Pointe, Mich. 

C.
 A. "TIM" RAUH '24, well-known for his attendance at Class of '23 reunions with his brother ^VALTER I. RAUH '23, passed away January 24. Because of his association \vith us at the reunions, his passing is of more than ordinary interest. His son, TIMOTHY J. R^VUH, is a member of the 1955 Class. 


In a letter from LYLE E. MILLER in January, I received a message for "our dear classmates that it's safe to come through old Vincennes, for if I can't get them out of jail, I can at least go do^v^ and have a visit with them." Lyie was named presi­dent of the Knox County Bar Assn. and also county attorney for that area of Indiana, he reported. 
CONNIE ALT informs me that "at Christmas CARL GILSINGER said that never again would he let anything keep him from a '23 reunion. That's a good omen for 1968. BOB QUINN and I again have It on our agenda." That's a new recruit we'll all be looting forward to seeing. The Alts were scheduled to make another trip to Europe on March 11, spending 55 days in Portugal, Spain and Italy. The trip is by boat. 
ED KREIMER has joined the list of retirees among our classmates, learing his employment with the Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. at Fort Wa>-nc, Ind., on January first. The Kreimcrs left late in January for an extended \-isit to their daughter in California, but as these notes go to press late in March, they had not yet seen their daughter, due largely to Ed's illness. He was briefly in the hos­pital, with some sort of antibiotic reaction, but is well again and on his way to sec Barbara's family in the environs of San Francbco. 
From the Alumni OfGcc: FR. LEO R. WARD CSC has been busier than ever since his retirement from the faculty. Father Ward recently brought out another book about Ireland and he has been lecturing all over the In­diana countryside on the Ecumenical Council and public aid to children in pri\'ate schools, the sub­ject of a forthcoming book. DAN CULHANE, DICK NASH, RED SHEA and FRANCIS WALLACE were all on the campus in February, representing the Class at the Alumni Board 40th Anniversary Reunion. 
FR. MARK FITZGERALD CSC '28, founder-director o£ the spring Union-Man­agement Conference, greets srane of his par­ticipants: (from left) Emil Mazey, TJAW­AFL-CIO secretary treasurer; Gerard Balsley, Kaiser Steel vice-president for in­dustrial relations; and Fr. Chester Soleta CSC '38, vice-president, academic affairs. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND Class of 1924 Subject: 40th Anniversary 
REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 1964 
^^A James R. Mechan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 

From the .-Mumni Office: BILL SHEEHAN and Secretary JIM MEEHAN have been dominating the South Bend business news. Bill with the opening of his new Sheehan's Ser\^ce Center and Jim with the expansion of Meehan & Associates to include new lines of art and engi­neering supplies. 
'25 ^^^^ ^' Hurley 
2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 

From the .-Mumni Office: SAMUEL E. SULLIVAN died in January in Birmingham, Ala. A mining engineer with his master's from the U. of Alabama, Sam was a past president of the ND Club of Alabama and a mem­ber of several professional engineering societies. A native of Chisholm, Minn., he had lived in Birmingham for 20 years and at the time of his death was chief mining engineer for Woodward Iron Co. He had held superintendencies with Lone Star Steel Co., Dangerficld, Tex.; Freeport Sulphur Co. in Oriente Province, Cuba; Ever­green Mines Corp., Hibbing, Minn., etc He is sur\'ivcd by his wife Ruth, two daughters, a son, three sisters and seven grandchildren. 
While JIM ARMSTRONG was bouna'ng around on a spring trip to Hawaii, the Four Horsemen were running riot at home. JIMMY CROWLEY won the annual Touchdown Club award in NYC and was eulogized by all the columnists. HARRY STUHLDREHER spoke at the Rockne Breakfast on campus and presented the AP All-.\m'erica award to NaxY quarterback Roger Staubach at the Annap­olis football banquet. DON MILLER was work­ing hard as a co-chairman of the first annua! ND picnic at Cedar Point, Ohio, and ELMER LAYDEN joined his cohorts at several events, including Bosses* Night of the Lake Shore chapter of the National Secretaries Assn. in Chicago. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 47 
I^jr Frank A. Dcitlc 1763 Kcsslcr Blvd. South Bend, Ind. 

Since our last writing DR. BERT COUGHLIN Bai bzd his name inscribed on a director's cliair of the National Alumni Aijn. The wisdom of the Notre Dame Alumni voters is again apparent — congratulations, Bert. 
A newjy letter from DENNIS O'NEILL and Dorothy was sent from Kingston, Jamaica, far from their home port of Cleveland, They were having a wonderful vacation cruising and relaxing in the sunshine of the West Indies. DENNIS "DENNY" O'NEILL JR. '51 and wife Pat had a new daughter, Sarah An gel e, bom Jan. 18 and named after two aunts, both with master's degrees from Notre Dame. Denny lives at No. 10 Downing Street, New York, and is Eastern manager for the Newspaper Entcrpriic Assn. MICHAEL O'NEILL '61 is manager of the purchasing department of the Union Commerce Bank of Cleveland. When Dennis Sr. returned to Cleveland he had awaiting, besides his advertuing business, a 3rd term as chairman of St. John's Hospital Board. 
RUDY COEPFRICH and I try to have lunch together about once a month when he is in South Bend and he usually has some nexvs. On his last trip to Washington, he stopped to sec ^VALTER TROIIAN. Waller was arranging a trip to Spain and Egypt — a business trip for the Chicago Trib­une. Rudy also talked to CHARLEY DOUGHERTY in Philadelphia and had lunch with PAUL ABEL in Cleveland, which proves that Rudy docs get around. 
Had a call from DOC GEI-SON'S son Al, who is a Senior at Notre Dame. Al is the last of four boys at ND. 
DICK DONNELLY and wife, DeLourdc, slopped at the house. Dick is the Industrial Relations Man­ager for the Clark Equipment Co., Battle Creek, Michigan. They bore the sad news of the death of BOB ANDREWS Dec 30. 
Since then GEORGE PARAGE died suddenly of a heart attack. He was stricken while in court. George w-as an attorney and former City Judge In South Bend. 
From the Alumni Office: DENNIS O'NEILL wrote from Kingston, Ja­maica, late in February to make sure we had heard about the death of his sister Angela (SR. MARIE ANGELE O'NEILL SP, .MA '45): "She was a great ND booster and enjoyed the ALUM­NUS enough to somehow scrape up a small con­tribution eacli year. . . . Angela wrote a birthday verse for her father just a few years after she entered. It was titled 'I'm the Daddy of a Nun.' It became the most widely reprinted religious card of its kind. .. . Dorothy and I came down to these islands shortly after the funeral. Wc have another couple from Cleveland with us. The four of us arc the only passengers on a chartered 100­foot Schooner. We started from Guadalupe and have worked our way up through most all the Leeward Islands, Wc fly from here to Nassau and then to Great Abaco. Back in Cleveland about the mid­dle of Maicli. . . . Wc started by flying to San Juan and from there phoned BISHOP .MENDEZ at Arccibo, . . ." 
DICK DONNELLY of Niles was the first to re­port the death of BOB ANDREWS, learned in a note from Bob's wife Elfreda in Elkton, Ind. Ill since last July with diabetes, Bob sank fast after a tunuir was discovered. RUDY GOEPFRICH had «een Bob, looking very fit, at the Gettysburg Cen­tennial last year. Rudy, incidentally, is a winter driving hazard expert again for tlie National Safety Council. 
Attorney PAUL J. FLEMING was running for appelate judge in Youngstoun, O. No word on his showing in the primary. He and Helen have sLx children. 
TIic Walgreen Pepper Pod recently announced the election of CHARLES W. MULANEY as \icc-president in cliarge of purchasing, advertising, merchandising and physical distribution. Charley, a phamiao' grad, had been niercliandising director. 
NORB ENGELS and his son John '52, a poet-prof at St. Michael's College, Vt., have collaborated on a second freshman textbook, Experience and Imagination, to folluu- their earlier Writing Tech­•iqucs. 
Congratulations to ART HALEY, retiring as chairman of the men's advisor)* committee for South Bend's Christ Child Society, on his work on the Library Dedication. 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
EUGENE G. FARRELL *28 

Boosting Brotherhood, a Catalytic Editor 
Eugene Farrell. editor of The Jersey Jour­nal, Jersey Cit>-, N.J., has received the annual Americanization Citation 1964 Brotherhood Award from B'nai B^rith. Gene was described at the formal presenta­tation as '*the catalyst who brought together the various elements in this city." 
The citation notes that in his 35 years as a newspaperman Gene Farrell has been the editor or a ranking editor on five New-house newspapers, and points to accomplish­ments in each of the cities where he worked. 
Among the specific ad\'ances "made in no small part because of his editorial efforts" arc the Long Island parkway system and Queens College (while at the Long Island 
•^ ^ Clarence J. Ruddy 
^ ' 32 S. River Street Aurora, 111. 

From the Alumni Office: 
DR. F. J. .MOOTZ, a PhD with a later class, has been named director of planning for the Tar Products Division of RciUy Tar & Chemical Corp. in Indianapolis. He's been with the company for 33 years. 
Erstwhile classmate MAX CONRAD made head­lines all over the world when he crash-landed a light plane on a Greenland icecap on one of his frequent flights to Europe. An .-Mr Force rescue effort brought him safely to Goose Bay, Labrador. 
'9f i Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th St. Forest Hills, N.Y. 

I regret to report the deaths of the wives of three classmates: AL GURY, LESTER HEGELE and BOB BANNON. 
It is a pleasure to announce a marriage for a cliange. BILL KIRWAN called me from Iowa City in February and introduced me to his prospective wife. They were married before Lent. They visited Mexico on their wedding trip. Bill mentioned that JOE LANGTON sat behind him at a show in Chicago when Bill u'as there for the Furniture Con­vention. Bill also reported that JOE BRANNON, who retired from Sears recently, is nou' with Mont­
Daily Press and the Long Island Star-
Journal) ; expansion and development of 
the airpon and shipping port at Xewar!^ 
(while at the Newark Star-Ledger), and a 
new bridge and zoning ordinances to pro­
tect Harrisburg's residential areas (^vhile at 
the Harxisburg, Pa., Patriot and Evening 
News, where he was the editor at the found­
ing of the Sunday Patriot-News). 
Particular tribute is paid in the citation to Gene's work in easing Jersey Cit>- tensions over civil rights issues last summer by bring­ing together the city administration and the leaders of the N.AACP. It also mentions his calm treatment several years ago of Fathe:Jj Divine's purchase of a Jersey Cit\- hotel at a time when wild rumors were alarming many citizens. 
Gene was one of the first to do something positive about assisting understanding of and by the heavy infliuc of Puerto Rican families into the metropolitan area. He got Rev. William Faulkner, S.J., head of the cit>''s Spanish Center, to write a column which has become a popular regular newspaper feature. 
The editor ser\-ed twice last year at the j appointment of Mayor Thomas Gangemi. as Jersey Cit>-'s "ambassador," first to Ireland and then to Italy. On both assignments he met the heads of the states' and major cities' governments. Both times he escorted to this country the dignitaries who were to head up the city's St. Patrick*s Day and Columbus Day parades (each of which at­tracted 250,000 \vatchers). His reappoint­ment as the cit>''s ambassador to Ireland for this year's celebration was announced this spring by Mayor Thomas Whelan. 
His frequent assistance to Protestant, Cath­olic and Jewish undertakings is mentioned^ in the citation which concludes with this^ paragraph: 
"There can be no ci\'ic pride nor civic morality nor civic progress where there is no feeling of brotherhood. Day in and day out over the 12 years he has been in Jersey City, this man's newspaper has preached the gospel of brotherhood, of cooperative Ii\-ing together, of neighborliness." 
gomery Ward. FATHER JIM McSHANE SJ writes 
that VINCE WALSH met BILL KIRWAN in Mc-d-^ CO. Father Jim is still in Honduras and is interested in starting a vocational school there. I had a card from VINCE CARNEY in Mexico, \vhcre he re­
turned after 25 years to the scene of his honeymoon. Vince will be our first World Fair guest this spring. FRANK DONO\^AN writes from Scottsdale, Ariz., where he is \'acationing, that he will also be %'isiting us soon. 
^Vhile in Jersey City on a speaking engagement in March, I found that EUGENE FARRELL, editor of The Jeiscy Journal, was in Ireland on his third transatlantic jaunt as "Jersey City's goodwill ambassador." He participated in the St. Patrick's parade in Dublin. I was pleased to hear that GENE FARRELL was aitarded the B'nai B'riih 1963 Brotherhood Award for that area because o^b his work in bringing together city administration^ and leaders of the Negro community for the establishment of a Civil Rights Committee for Human Digm'ty. 
Due to speaking engagements in the Virgin Islands and before the American Management Asso­ciation in New York, I was unable to attend the reunion of past members of the Board of the ND Alumni Association. TOM BYRNE, PAT CANNY and JOE MORRISSEY represented the Class of '28 at the affair. The other *28 former Board mem­ber. Judge BILL JONES, was tmable to attend because of court commitments. TOM BYRNE called mc from Cle\-eland reporting on the meeting. Tom has a married daughter living near me. JOE MOR­RISEY also reported on the meeting and advised that he now has five grandchildren. Joe's son Mike is teaching and coaching at Moeller High School and his daughter Is with Procter & Gamble. Spcak­
• ing of '28 children, DICK QUINLAN tells me that he has been doing some legal work with JOHN FORGE JR. in Kansas City. Dick didn't know until he read my column that he is the son of our classmate. Incidentally, DICK QVISLAS is at­tending the ND Convention at the Lucazan Beach Hotel on Grand Bahama. 
AUGIE GRAMS sent me a clipping from the Miami Herald carr>'tng a picture of GEORGE COURY as chairman of the board of the Inter­national Bank of Miami. Also, one from the Chi­cago Sun-Times of HOWIE PHALIN receinng a gift as general chairman of the Mero' Hospital building fund. Augic also included a picture clip­^pln g of the granite mural 11 stories high on the ^-X D Memorial Library' which is a gift from Howie. 
ED QUINN reports from ND that LARRY STAUDER, Secretary of the Class of '29 plans to show our *28 reunion pictures at liis thirty-fifth reunion this year. Larr>' has inWtcd '28 men to attend. He said that PHIL CENEDELLA was returning for this reunion. He also mentioned that FR. MARK FITZGERALD had a grand meeting at the twelfth annual Union-Management Con­ference at ND this year. I have been privileged to seni'e on the conference committee for the past twelve years. Ed also said that GEORGE SCHEUER is ver>* active in Catholic scouting in So. Bend and that George is still with the Tribune as a specialist in aviation writing. Ed sent along a clipping with a 
^picture of Judge BOB GRAN'T. Bob. like most of us, has put on some weight. 
While lecturing recently at Malloy College, where DR. D.\N BRADLEY is a trustee, I got a report on Dan's assignment in Guatemala where he gave his ser\'ices for a month at a mission and clinic in the mountains in San Pedro Necta. Dan was accompanied by his wife and his two daughters. He averaged seventy-four patients per day while there. 
The March 16, 19M, issue of US Ncu-s & World Report carried a picture of US District Judge GEORGE N. BE.AMER and a report of the high­lights of his much discussed decision upholding the neighborhood school system of Gar>', Ind. 
DR. S. D. SOLOMON of Gettysburg, Pa., re­ports that the ND Field Mass held there was a huge success In every respect. His three boys and daughter all graduated from Georgetown. Dave 
• mentioned that he had not seen M.\RK FARRELL since their internship thirtv years ago. FR. .ANDY MULRE/\NY CSC writes from St. Joseph's Churcli in Killecn, Tex., that he is kept busv at Fort Hood. BILL DWYER and BILL MURPHY report on the following '23 Class attendance at the Rockne .•\ward Dinner of the ND Club of Chicago: BILL LEAHY, JOE GRIFFIN, RAY MULLIG.\N, DICK PHELAK, BILL MURPHY, JOHN RICHORD, Judge JOHN LYONS. BERNIE KORZEN, HOWIE PHALIN, ED McKEO>VN, MATT CULLEN and BILL D\\TER. Bill Dwycr has a son at ND this year. 
BILL MURPHY came through with a long promised letter. Bill had talked with JOHN CAV­
^\NAUG H who had seen Judge MAR\TN .\GGE­
LER in Los Angeles. In fact John had a probate matter there and Judge Aggeler was assigned to the case. John Ca\'anaugh has a daughter at Wiscon­sin U. and another at St. Mar^-'s. Bill also saw FRj\NK HOG.\X recently. Bill sent along a clip­ping regarding PHIL PITON, president of baseball's minor leagues. 
G\RL PETTERSCH is director of graduate studies and extension services at Danburv State College, Danbur>-, Conn. JOSEPH E. MORRISSEY is a partner in the Coos Bay Iron Works, Inc., Coos Bay, Oregon. He has a son at Portand U. who is taking philosophy from FR. MILTNER. His daughter teaches grade school in Middletown, Conn. HENRY PERSYN is with Reilly Tar S: 
»
Chemical Co. in Indianapolis, Ind. He has a daugh­ter at Crcighton U. BILL O'NEILL is president of the Leascway Transportation Corp. in Cleveland. Bill has 5 children. ALBERT ZOELLER, who was ^^'ith our class in 1925-26 and a friend of LARRY WINGERTER, recently joined the Alumni Assn. at Larry's sug­gestion. Al is with Mill & Factor>' Supply House in Hammond, Ind. ARTHUR DENCHFIELD is vice-president at the Greater Miami Savings Center in Miami, Fla. Art's wife, Karen, has taken Art's place with the Mickler & Lyden Realtors in Miami. 
We i-Tsited STEVE SHERRY and GEORGE CRONGEYER at Christmas time. Steve was leav­ing for a x'acation in Spain at the time. 
U.S. District Court Judge BILL JONES sent me a clipping about JOHN J. CONNOLLY who taught 
philosophy at ND from 1928-31. Senator Connolly 
is now Serving as majority leader of the Canadian 
Senate and a cabinet minister. Senator Connolly 
has practiced law in Ottawa, Canada, since 1934 
and has been active in the Liberal Party since that 
time. 
Our Class President BERNIE GARBER and I 
had dinner in .March with FR. JLM .McSH.ANE SJ, 
who is doing missionary work in Honduras. Father 
Jim had visited Denver where he had done out­
standing work with the Negroes and Mexicans and 
in the industrial relations field. His friends there 
arc raising funds to help Father Jim's work with 
the poor in Central America. He described the 
financial problems his mission faced in educating 
young natives for the priesthood. Drop Father Jim 
a line at Casa Cural £1 Progresso, Yoro, Hon­
duras, C.A., and let him know how much we 
appreciate the good work he is doing. 
I just received from DICK QUINLAN the sad news of the death of BOB MOHLMAN'S wife in Lafayette, Ind., on March 17. Bob has two daugh­ters and txvo sons. I was also sorrx* to hear of the death of DICK QUINLAN'S brother in Kansas City in November. I regret also to have to report the death of the daughter of IL\Y LUSSON, Sister Gcralyn Marie BVM in Dubuque, Iowa. Sister was a graduate of Mundclein College and had entered the Sisters of Charity In 1962. She made her pro­fession of vows on January 16, 1964, less than three weeks before her death. 
Be sure to order tickets for the UCL.A game on October 17 so you will be present for our ninth annual '28 class get-together at ND following the game. We hope that HOWIE PHALIN has ar­ranged the O'Shaughncssy tower on campus for this affair. You will be advised of the details later. JOE HILGER sent mc some excellent pictures which he took at our class get-together last year. JOE BREIG has advised he hopes to attend our October 17 get-together. 
I regret to have to report the unexpected death of ROY A. WORDEN following a heart attack in 
JOSEPH V. LENIHAN '29 For F.&S. and F.S.C., a New Vintage 
Joseph V. Lenihan has been elected vice-president of Fromm and Sichel, Inc., of New York and San Francisco, worldwide sales agents for the famous Christian Brothers Wines and Brandy, which originates in the vine>*ards of the Christian Brothers of Cali­fornia. Formerly assistant vice president, Mr. Lenihan joined the firm in 1946 after five years* active duty in the Na\->'. Prior to his World War II ser\'ice, as a Lt. Com­
South Bend on March 19. Roy had taught archi­tecture at ND for the last three years. As head d the Roy A. Worden architectural firm in Sootk Bend, he designed the South Bcnd-Mishawaki Campus ot Indiana Univenitr* His finn won fini prize from the Indiana Society of Architects for the design of the St. Joseph Coimty Airport. Roy wa a loBstime member and former chairman td the South Bend City Planning Commisaicm and had served three terms on the Indiana State Architect Registration Board. Roy is survived by his wife aw) three sons, t^vo of whom are students at Purdue University, and two daughters. Many of our class­mates will remember Roy's hospitality at our SOth reunion, when he entertained them in his new contemporary home which he had designed. Our treasurer, JOE LANGTON, has arranged for a ^fass to be offered for Roy. 
HENRY DAVIS sent me the sad news of the death of DR. MARCUS FARRELL, a pediatrician, in Clarksburg, W. Va. Marcus died suddenly oo Jan. 12 from a heart attack while shoveling snow. Marcus Is survived by his \%ife and two sons, Mar­cus Jr. '61 and John '59. He received his MD from Har^-ard. He served as a Lt. Comdr. in the US Navy. One son is a medical student at the 
U. of Pittsburgh and the other is a Lt.JG with the Navy. Marcus had served as president of the ^Vest Virginia Pediatric Society and chairman of Harrison City-Clarksburg Board of Health. He waa always interested In our Class and in Notre Dame. He attended our 20-year reunion and our after-the­game get-together In 1959. He was pleased to have two sons at Notre Dame. He helped organbe and served as chairman of the Board of Directors of the Central West Virginia Notre Dame Club. Treas­urer Langton arranged for FR. MULREANY to offer a Mass for Marcus. Please remember him in your prayers. 
From our Class President, BERN GARBER: "Visiting Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh, in Frf)ni­ary to sec my sister, I met and had a good talk 
mander, Joe had been associated with Bank­
ers Trust Co. of New York. He holds an 
M.B..\. degree from the Graduate School of 
Business Administration of N.Y.U. 
Recently he was honored with member­
ship in Familiares Scholarum ChTistian­
antniy which is a group of distinguished 
business and professional men who serve in 
an advisor>* capacity to the Long Island-
New England Province of the Christian 
Brothers. 
Vice-presidency of the Class of '29, for­
mer membership on the Board of Governors 
of the Notre Dame Club of New York and 
charter membership in the newly formed 
Jersey Shore Club are some of Joe's alumni 
activities. He has also served as a volunteer 
with the ND Foundation and has been a 
member of the alumni committee on prep 
school relations for the past 10 years. 
Other organizations and causes with which Joe is active include: the Cardinal's Committee of the Laity, Archdiocese of New York; Christian Brothers Academy, Lin-croft, N.J. (Board of Governors); the Cath­olic Actors Guild of .America (Advisory Board); the Naval Order of the United States; the Spanish Institute; the Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick; the Franz W. Sichel Foundation (trustee and treasurer); the Shrewsbury Sailing and Yacht Club, Ocean-port, N.J.; the Seabright Lawn Tennis and Cricket Club, Rumson, N.J.; and the Deal Golf and Country Club, Deal, N.J. 
Originally a New Yorker, Joe now com­mutes to his office at 375 Park .Avenue from his home in Rumson, N.J., where he resides with his wife Dolores and daughter Nancy. Another daughter, Sharon — now Mrs. J. F. Shine, Jr., of Manchester, N.H. — attended St. Mary's. Dolores is an aliunna of the Col­lege of New Rochelle and a sister of Joe Friel '29 and Jun Friel '30. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 19&P 49 
with DR. FRANK HEGARTY and his wife. Both 
knew Mrs. and DR. MARK FARRELL and were 
sorry to Icarn of Mark's death, which had just 
occurred. The Hegartys have a son, nine, and also 
a new grandchild. I talked with Ruth McMahon, 
John's widow, who teaches in Pittsburgh. Her older 
son is with Alcoa public relations, working in South 
America. The younger, Michael, teaches in Middle­
town, Conn. Both sons are ND alumnt. 
"Although he was snoiv-bound, I talked with 
DICK PARRISH in Fairmont, West, Va., where 
he is editor of The West \'irginian. Dick and his 
wite arc planning a long aulo trip wcstn-ard ihJs 
simimer. 
"A letter from .ART DEXCHFIELD places him 
in Miami where he is associated with the Greater 
Miami Savings Center as vice-president. 
"BOB HA.MILTO.V and TOM BOV tvcrc among the monogram men honored ^farch 5 at the Wal­dorFs Starlight Roof. Buckle>-missed this, giving a talk that night at Bishop Malloy College, L.I. BILL TURK* KELLY was there and told me his son, sophomore debater at Stepinac Ifigh, was aiming for XDU, JOE LEXIH.AN, almost '28 was there, and suggested that '28 and '29 should merge, at least at some parties. Tliis b fine, if he can arrange a football cocktail part\-on campus for '64. I saw also HERB McCABE, having met him and his wfe Just the Sunday evening before down the Jersey shore. 
"GEORGE CROXGEYER said he expected to see LOU NORAtAX at the gathering as Louwas then in KVC on business for GM, but did not find him. A few days later George took ofT for a vaca­tion in the Frencli .Mps, etc., coming back re­freshed to the ^fctropolitan on .April 7. 
"HOWJE PHALIX, who donated the artful mo­saic Outside the new XD Librar>-. was recently described by the student radio stations (my son Brady informed me) as of 'the Class of '38,' an understandable error when one looks at Hovne's face. 
"Howie has just informed me that our Class part>-following the UCLA game Oct. 17 will be held in the Faculty Lounge of O'Shaughncssy Hall. So order those game tickets and plan to attend." 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
The spring LOU BUCKLEY saga included also articles on teen-age and Xegro unemployment in the Social Digest and Catholic ^find. Louis will again be on the summer economics faculty for the Fordham U. school of education's guidance insti­tute. 
CHRISTIE D. SHULL was general clialrman in a drive for a $1.2 million Catholic high school In East Stroudsburg, Pa., to be named — of all things 
— Xotre Dame. 
FR. GEORGE BEXAGLIA made the news when his King's College in WIlkes-Barre, Pa., became the latest school to drop football. 
DR. D.AX BRADLEY had some trenchant com­ments on the situation in Guatemala for the Suf­folk County, X.Y., newspapers upon his return from that poverty-stricken land. 
Congratulations to CHARLES J. DUCEY, an MA u^th the Class, for his being named assistan: supreme secretary-of llie Knights of Columbus. 
A coed with the Class, SR. MARY FLORE.NTIXE of the Sisters of Charity of X^azarcth. recalled tak­ing her \-ows in llic Log Chapel wlicn she wrote in for some material on the new Memorial Li­brary. Sister Is on the staff of Memorial Hospital. Chattanooga, Tenn. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1929 
Subject: 35th Anniversary REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-14 
1964 
•^ Q Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Ind. 

\Vc are on the way! Your secretar>* was never more optimistic about prospects for a successful reunion. Ten per cent of the *'Yes" replies are from classmates who did not attend in either *54 or '59, and another ten per cent did not attend in '59. If and when the regulars and the potential newcomers reply we will all share another rewarding experience. Have you mailed your Intent? 
If your news is not in this column please under­
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
JOHN P. O'NEILL '29 ^\llccI in architecture, spoke in Spokane 
"Blending the new and the old in a sort of architectural family relationship" is the secret of John O'Neill's popularity as a church architect in the Northwest With four parish buildings erected in Januar>', his designs have included dozens of churches, schools, hospitals, chapels, halls, convents and gymnasia over the past 17 years in Washington, Oregon and Idaho. 
After ND John worked in Chicago, South Bend, Washington, Detroit and Springfield architectural ofHces (his first assignment ^vas a Jewish synagogue) and sen'ed on the archeological staff of the Camcgie Institu­tion of Washington in Mexico and Central America, Married in 1936 to Mary Lou Miaginnis (a graduate of Duchesne College), he also directed architectural sur\'eys for the US Dept. of Interior and served on the Second Inaugural Committee for Franklin 
D. Roosevelt. Designing antiaircraft and airfield installations for the Naxy during World War II, he foimded his own firm for the general practice of architecture in Spokane in 1947. 
John is a past president of the Serra and Notre Dame Clubs of Spokane, a past direc­tor of the Spokane Construction Council, and recently scr\'cd as president of the Greater Spokane Music and .-Mlied .*\rts Festival. 
Eldest son John, ND '59, was the winner of a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship to Stan­ford Universit>'. He is now completing his doctoral dissertation and sharing preschool care of two O'Neill granddaughters and a grandson. Son Michael, completing theolog>' while writing for Catholic publications at the Theological College of Catholic Univer­sity, e-xpected to be ordained in the Spo­kane Diocese in May. And daughter Nancy, a senior music major and instructor at In­diana University, planned to graduate in June. 
stand that some had to be deferred. We will do 
the best tliat we can. Thank you for submitting It. 
Is there any objection to using Oct. 24, the ^^^c,!^ of the Stanford game, for our post-game Class get-9 together? 
The list that follows is that of the early birds who have indicated that they plan to attend the June 12, 13, 14 Class Reunion: R. N. ALT, G. N. BEA^fER, J. R. BRO^V^^ H . L . BURNS, V. F. a\RXEY, L. S. CLEMENTS, J. F. COL.\XGELO, 
W. F. CRAIG, J. M. CURRY, J. H. CUSH.MAN, 
J. H. DALY, J. E. DIGx\N, F. E. DO.\N, W. A. DONNELLY, M. G. FADELL, F. M. FLYNN. 
J. .M. GILTIXON, L. F. HANEY, R. E. HAUGH, 
R. M. HILLURD, F. JONES, K. A. KASCHEW­SKI, J. T. KEARNS, J. P. KENNEDY, K. J. KONOP, E. E. LEACH, J. V. LENIHAN, J. J. LYONS, T. F. Mc\L\HON, H. J. McMxVNIGAL, 
K. E. MARTERSTECK, F. M. METR.MLER, P.-J 
J. MORG/VN, W. H. MULFLUR, R. T. O'BRIEN, 
J. E. OUELETTE, P. C. ROSS, O. F. SCHELL, 
C. P. SCHNEIDER, L. F. STAUDER, R. M. TROTTER, R. P. l\7LLLi.MS, J. J. Y.ATES, REV. GARVIN. REV. NORTON, REV. OTOOLE, 
We have this news from JIM DIGfVN. "On Jan. 4 I married Mrs. Dorothy Ptashkin and wc spent a most pleasant honeymoon in Hawaii." 
Wc have word from REV. CHRISTOPHER J. O'TOOLE CSC, who is now district superior of the newly established District of Texas for the Priests • of Holy Cross. Holy Cross has been active In the Southwest for almost a hundred years — BISHOP DUVAL of Galveston u-as a CSC. At this time of rapid development in the Southwest, Father har ^ many responsibilities but hopes to be on hand on ­June 12. REV. JAMES E. NORTON CSC, dean of students at the coed U. of Portland (now 1,750 students), likewise plans to be back. 
We wish to express the sincere sympathy of the Class to Mrs. THOMAS M. LEE, 12416 Littleton St., Silver Spring, Md. Tom, an AB *29 graduate, died Dec 3, 1963. He will share in Masses ar­ranged for by JIM CURRY and others. We have received no further details on Tom's untimely death. 
Wc express our sympathy also to JOHN M. GIL-Tl^OSf xvhosc mother, Margaret, passed away July 27, 1963. ; 
Tlie many friends of SYLVESTER "DOC " , DOUGHERTY, 1859 West Plum St., Stcubenville, Ohio, share his grief for his wife, Florence, who • passed away February 28 after an illness of more-. tlian two years, more serious for the final elcx'erV. weeks. You may recall that tlie Doughertys traveled ; to Europe last year. They had made several trips ­to ND over the years and cxemplllied in a special way the Ideals for whicli Our Lady stands. Their daughter Louise, a graduate student at the U. of Cincinnati, will stay with Doc until the fall term. Their daughter Jane Anne is a nurse at Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati. 
Congratulations to JOE LENIHAN, vvhosc pro­motion to vice-president of Fromm and Siclicl Inc. was announced on St. Patrick's Day in New York. TIic 6rm is distributor of Chrlstiaa Bros, wines and brandy. Joe has been with the firm since 1946. The news came to your secretary via OLLIE SCHELL, LOU BUCKLEY '28 and the N.Y. Times ratlier than from modest Joe, who repllcdfl| recently '*. . . I would like to nominate and sec 
elected as vice-president of the Class of '29 every 
member of the Class who attends this Reunion . . . wc could supplement these with an executive com­mittee. . . . " Will you accept such a draft? 
Joe is a member of the Cardinal's Committee of the I*aity of the Archdiocese of New York. He wns recently honored with membership in "Famillarcs 
CON'NOLLY NAMED MINISTER 

Judge WILLIA.\f B. JO.VES '2fl wrote in to 
call attention to the appointment of Senator 
JOHN J. CONNOLLY OBE as the Liberal 
leader in the Canadian senate and minister with­
out portfolio. Sen. Connolly, an ND faculty 
member of this era. Is probably the first NI) 
man to become a cabinet minister in Canada. 
Scholarum Christianarum" which Is a group of dis­tinguished business and professional men who scr\'e in an advisory capacity for the Long Island-New England provinces of tlie Christian Brothers. 
Congratulations also to BOB TROTTER, who was appointed Senior V-P for Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. 
JIM KENNEDY is now director of public rela­tions for the Illinois Slate Toll Highway commis­sion, at Hinsdale, 111. Jim's son Robert is a candi­date for end on next fall's varsity football team at ND. Jim writes of the great humanitarian work of RAYMOND M. MILLIARD on the aid to de­pendent children program in Chicago. Jim chal­
•Icnges RUSS 0*BRIEX and any other volunteers jf a toursontc to a round of reunion golf. 
To assist us in our attempt to "keep up with the Joneses." FRANCIS JONES tells us that daugh­ter Katy, 23, is teaching third grade at St. Joseph*s School, Sfishawaka, Ind.; son Pat, 22, is attaclicd to the stafT of the Commander of the First Fleet at San Diego, Calif.; son Dan, 18, is a senior at John Adams High, a member of the Senior Cabinet and a champion swimmer, having placed second in the backstroke in a slate meet, where he and other members of the relay team broke the state record. Dan plans to attend ND. 
HUGH J. McMANIGAL writes: "If mangoes are ripe, will bring some for Class Dinner dessert. This lO-timc grandpappy cranked up his business again 
9.4nd just secured a contract, thru bidding for a Coast Guard Air Station.*' Hugh asks, *'Who are the old fogies whose pictures were taken and mounird by FRANCIS MEYER? They can't be my crowd!'" 
Formerly president of Swinco Inc., JIM CURRY is now director of Great Neck Park's new swimming pool and ice skating rink. Jim is a source of ideas for greater class activity. We invite him to present them at the reunion and promise to give them column space in the next Issue. 
FR. OTIS WINCHESTER will arrive with former roommate CLETE SCHNEIDER, who will bring some color slides taken at reunions "way back when the guj-s could still play softliall . . . and 
fltjim Curr\- wore his out-of-spacc helmet." 
^ WALTER A. DONNELLY will be back. Hint: ask about his son W.ALTER A. JR. '58. who mar­ried Rosemar\- Corcoran of St. Mar\-'s, and of their four daughters and one son. Walt Jr. is with Mass. General Life Ins. Co. of Boston. 
PETE MORGAN, track coach at Princeton U. for the past 18 years and president of IC4.\ Track Coaches Assn. 1964-65, will be here for the reunion. He and wife Felice have a daughter Judy, a Sister of Merc\*; a son Pete, graduate of Niagara U., 
IVAN R. WOLF '29 To Pittsburgh, a Veteran A & P Veep 
For the past five years, as A&P \'ice­president and a director of the Central Di­vision, with headquarters in Youngstown, Ohio, Ivan Wolf has been responsible for all supermarket operations in the Youngstown area, and in February he was appointed to head the Pittsburgh unit of the Great At­lantic & Pacific Tea Company. Under his Direction in the Central Division have been 
with Union Carbide but presently with US /\rmy, 
Roanoke, Va.; and a daughter Felice In Notre Dame 
High, Trenton. 
Here arc some quotes from MICKEY McMAHON. "I have yours of March 16 and am most certainly hoping to return for our Class Reunion in June. I am writing letters to several of our Class urging them to make ever>- effort to attend as — let's face it — after this one the ranks will no doubt get thinner. 
"As to family news, we have been living in New Orleans for the last 17 years and consider our­selves natives. In 1952, I became associated with 
C. .\. Spori & Co., Inc., of which CYP SPORL '28 is president. Our son Tom and JOHN PETITBON '52 are also associated with our company, Insur­ance Brokers and Average Adjusters. Our daughter Mary is married to ED. McGVRTHY *50, son of the late Dean JAMES McC^VRTHY and our daugh­ter Judith is married to JOHN PHILBIN *59," 
BOB McVET\' sends his regards to FR. LOU THORNTON, MICKEY McMAHON (Mickey, by the way, would like to flip coins with Bob for the lower bunk] and others whom we saw at the 25th Reunion. Bob does not c.'cpect to attend this time. 
Attorney LOUIS F. H.VNEY reports on the June, '63, graduations of twin daughters. Roscmar>* Ann was graduated magna cum laude from William Smith College and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Patricia Ann was graduated from Elmira College, cum laudc, also elected to Phi Beta Kappa and "Who's Who in .American Colleges and Universi­ties." Patricia spent her junior year at London School of Economics and Political Science In Lon­don, England. Their sister Arlcnc Concetta attended Rochester (N.V.) Business Institute. 
JIM YATES will attend the reunion In June. Five years ago his daughter was received as a Mercy Sister on our reunion date. RUSSELL T. O'BRIEN of Northwoods Park, north of Valparaiso, Ind., where he is president of their improvement Assn.: makes the lakes and wooded area seem in­
700 stores and thousands of employees in 
the Cleveland - Buffalo - Altoona - Pitts­
burgh - Columbus - Youngstown sector. 
Apt to drop in on stores anytime during 
working hours, Ivan is welcomed by man­
agers for his merchandising ideas. He has 
been driving 30,000 miles a year covering 
the territor>'. checking not only his own com­
pany's outlets but those of the competition 
and rising shortly after 6 a.m. each morning. 
A Youngstown native, he joined A&P shortly after graduation as an auditor for local stores and joined the sales department t\vo years later. After several years he trans­ferred to the stores and soon was managing two outlets. In 1937 he entered the pur­chasing department, soon was head buyer and in 1940 became merchandise manager, serv'ms in that capacity for 18 years. In 1959 he was named general superintendent of the area operation, including all stores within an 80-mile radius of Youngstown. A few months later came his vice-presidency and directorship in the A&P Central Divi­sion, the last move before his recent pro­motion to Pittsburgh chief. 
Before the move Ivan was active in the Youngstown .\rea Chamber of Commerce, the Bureau of Good Business Practices, the Area Development Foundation and the Ohio Chamber. He was a member of the Youngs­town ND Club and a director of the local Red Cross chapter. He enjoys golf, travel, cooking and occasional bridge. 
Mrs. Wolf, the former Irene Shea, died in 1961. There are four grown children — three sons, Ivan Jr in Youngstown, Paul in Los Angeles and Peter in New Orleans (all in merchandising) and a married daughter, Julie, in Milwuakee — and four grandchil­dren. Ivan now lives at the Highland House, 5700 Bunker Hill, Pittsburgh. 
vlting indeed. Russ and Betty have been grand­parents four times. They have married daughters, Pat and Linda; Debbie, a junior in high school; and son Teddie, a straight A lourih grader. 
GEORGE B&VMER will be prodding the *29 lawyers to attend the reunion. (Your secretary Is gratified by the response he has received to his recent mailing.] MAURY FADELL continues to expand Fadell Personnel Service with agencies now in South Bend, Gary, Hammond and Elkhart, Ind., as well as Benton Harbor, Mich. 
VDs'CE CARNEY writes: "I admit that Tm a bit of an outcast for the Class of 1929 because, having started with the Class of 1928 and forced by illness to graduate one year later, I have spent my time as a '28er more than a 'SScr. I vfill be back for sure, and am tr>-ing hard to get JOE NETTLETOX and JOE HISS to return. Saw both in the past few years in their respective places (Murphy, Ida., and San Francisco, Calif.) and surely hope to see them there. I will write for sure. 
"Have spent all 35 years since graduating here in the home town of Rochelle, 111. Have had a chance to get around a bit in the past few years but not managed to see too many of our Class. Have six children, eldest daughter graduated from St. Catherine's in St. Paul and now with Boston U., next a senior at U. of Toronto (Anne), son John a sophomore at U. of Toronto (St. ^^chacl's), another daughter a freshman at Loretto Heights at Denver, two younger girls a junior and fresh­man in high school here. Still doing men's cloth­ing as always. 
"A big hello for JOE LEXIH.\N. Expect to sec him in New York next month." 
From the Alumni Office: Secretary- Lx\RRY STAUDER took a course in 
_modem control theory or "dynamic programming" at the Rand Corp. in Santa Monica, Calif., this spring to learn the latest computer techniques. 
Fromm and Sichel Inc. (see Spotlight) have an­nounced the election of JOSEPH V. LENIHAN as vice-president In New York. 
•nf l Devcre Plunkett 0*Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 

ED SMITH was appointed public defender for the next year in South Bend and has filed on the Republican primary ticket for probate judge. 
TIM TOOMEY has dropped in several times in the past couple of months as a member of the Alumni Board. 
DICK SULLIVAN gave a review of a book written by ED O'CONNOR '39 in the Chicago Tribune's Sunday book section. He's a regular reviewer for the Trib and other papers. 
WALT lANGFORD has given several speeches lately on his experiences with the Peace Corps. 
When the newspapers first came out strongly that smoking caused cancer, FR. ALBERT SCHLITZER put cigarette smoking squarely in the moral arena. "The gravity of the admonition not to smoke depends on the certitude tliat ft would weaken one's health or endanger one's good life," he said. 
VXNCE MORAN Is now asst. director of the Labor-Management Serx'ice Administration for Com­pliance Operations at the U.S. Dept. of Labor in Washington, D. C 
•^ 1 James T. Doyle 805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, Cal. 

Greetings again to the Class of 1931. My apol­ogies for having missed the December issue of the ALUMNUS, but this must indicate to our class­mates that I need your help from time to time to provide an interesting and newsy column on our activities. Since moving to the West Coast I am unable to maintain personal contacts at campus ev*ent5 tvhich were a source of regular news. TOM ASHE made an extended tour to Europe and Africa late last year and on his return managed to spend some time in Rochester, N,Y.. his home town. He tried to reach JOHN DORSCHEL but was im­successful. GIL SE.AM/VN UTOte me on his return from Florida and decided that he should have come to California where he could have enjoyed some delightful spring weather. Gil is enjoying good health again and is one of my faithful Chicago cor­respondents. He also mentioned that the RAY­MOND COLLINSES are now grandparents. An­other news clipping from Chicago told of AL STEPAN being honored ^viih a special invitation to join Pope Paul VI on his historic tour of Jeru­salem during the Christmas season. JIM MUL-
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 2964 51 

s-^%' 

MANAGER SQUAD functioning in 1930 »-ith Rockne's last team included: (front row, from left) McKeon, Coh-ille, Spangenberg, Ashe, Lauerman, Head Mgr. Halpin, Motsett, Balfe, Grams, Weiss, Ross; (middle row) Lewis, O'Brien, Murray, Greer, Noll, O'Keefc, Buhl, Fox, Fallon, Martin, Wirry Shinners, Baker; (top row) Da\-id, Mulvibill, LaSarge, McManus, McCormick, Goldberg, Von Becklin, Ven­ablcs, Kottc, Quinn, Albertini, Murphy, Rubin, Sullivan, Hanlcy. Charlie Callahan contributed the picture to disprove the tradition that Y
C^' 

old-time football players are always remembered but no one ever remembers the managers. 
VANEY was in tou-n recently and phoned. He re­ports haWng \-isued with JOHNNIE BURNS in New York last November and promises to do better in providing me \«th news for our column. 
The sad part of this news column is the report­ing of deaths of our classmates. Word was received of the death of MICHAEL K\LLIG.\N during October at Denver, Colo. Mike was originally from Detroit and spent his freshman vcar in Howard Hall. ANDREW J. KAT.A, New Britain, Conn.. died November 4, 1963. Andy was a doctor and had to miss our 1961 Reunion due to the birth of a daughter in their family. I remember receiving a wire from him regretting his inability to be on hand. The s^-mpathy of the class is extended to their families and please remember them in your prayers. FR.-\NK HOLLAND'S wife, Sadie, passed au-ay last October after a short illness. Frank is living in Skokie, III., with hb three cliildren. I was in Chicago last September, but was unable to con­tact Frank at that time. Word has also been re­ceived from the Alumni Oflice of the death of the wfe of ED LANGENFELD, New Holstein, ^Vis., who passed away in January. Our s>Tnpathy is extended to Frank and Ed. 
Another faithful on the missing list is SPIKE SULLIVAN w*ho used to keep me posted on TOM MONAHAN and others seen at campus football games. BILL BERNING writes regularly on ac­tivities in Austin, Tex., which means BERT MALONEY who is the town's leading banker. Bill menUoned hearing from TEX BRIEGER, TERRY DILLON and HARRY KEN'NEDY, who is now living permanently in Henhe>*, Pa. Bill writes of his family and two lovely granddaughters. Many thanks for your regular news, Bill. I hope that many more will endeavor to follow your example. I also hear regularly from ^[arie and JIM Mc-QUAID and now owe them a letter. My best wishes to all the men of 1931. Please send news of any events you attend where classmates are present. It is only witli your help that this col­tmin can be successful. 
From the Alumni OfEce: 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES McQUAID, managers of Vincennes (Ind.) University's Old Post Bookstore, have had their bookstore's PapeHiack Book Fair project selected as one of the 6nal nine award winners in the National Assn. of College Stores Merchandising Contest. 
BERT XLVLONEY was promoted to senior v-p of the City National Bank in Austin, Tex. 
TONY SCHREINER has been appointed director of industrial relations for Standard Forgings Corp., one of the largest drop forging firms in the coun­try. His new ofEce will be in the company's main plant in East Chicago, Ind., where he will be responsible for labor relations, personnel, the safety program and plant security*. 
JOE SAVOLDI, who left Notre Dame by request when be married in his final year, is teaching science courses in Henderson, Ky., which is near the home of his ailing mother-in-law. Joe returned to college at £\-ansviIIc and earned his baclielor's degree in *62. .After the first month of classes, Joe made the dean's list. Joe is serious about hia teaching and is studying toward a MA at In­diana U. in his vacation periods. With 10 more hours remaining, Joe hopes to get his MA in 1965, some 34 vcars after he should have graduated from ND. 
SEYMOUR GROSS, gen. mgr. of the Mergreen Co., manufacturers of fertilizer, has been elected pres. of the Jewish Children's Bureau of Chicago, a Jewish Federation .Agencv-. 
BERT METZGER has written a book. Profit Sharing in Perspective. 
Tlie following firsthand account of the .Maskan earthquake from JERRY RANSAVAGE: "Yvonne and I were spared anything grievous. We live in a frame structure that was tossed around, but we were fortunate that we did not even lose any significant material things. 
*'I lived through the earthquakes of Helena, ^fo^t., in *36 or '37, whiclt were very bad, but the one of Friday afternoon here eclipsed anything I experienced before. It was more than a minute of continuous quaking. In the interval there \vere about two very sharp jolts. The rest of the time it was like being tossed by stormy waves. ^\'c were about to leave the house for Good Friday ser\'ices. 
"By the time I inspected the gas apparatus and waterlines a fellow teacher arrived from the central city. It was she who told us of the awful damage that took place downtown. .After that we had no light, water, gas. Tliis teacher made me realize that the damage was tremendous. By the grace of God few people were downtown. Perhaps that accounts for the few deaths here. 
"In some places streets sank down 30 feet. In a fashionable residential area dwellings for several blocks fell into crevasses made by the earthquake. Roads have been made impassable by fissures. The Alaska R.R. has been paral>'zcd by their knocking out bridges, making deep holes under tracks. In Anchorage high-storied apartment houses and busi­ness houses and a hospital had to be evacuated immediately. Well, I could go on and on relating about the disaster that struck Ancliorage, but by this time you no doubt are informed about the destruction even more than 1 am. However, most of the dwellings were substantially saved. I might add that a large high school and several elementary schools were irreparably damaged." 
•^ ^ James K. Collins 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 

TED HALPIN v*"as in town recently and told us that his first granddaughter was born on January 
28. His son, Car>*, is the proud father, and will 
f 

finish medical school at Creighton University next i_ spring. ? 
JOHN KRAMER, still in the materials handling equipment business in Kansas City, told me recent-^ ly that he has his son. Jack, do most of the •; firm's travelling now so that he can slow dov%*n. Both of John's sons are married and have young-'. sters to delight their grandfather. 
TONY CONTI is still writing for the where-: abouts of Johnny Peronc ^vithout any concrete re-': suits. JOE DUNNE writes that he is in Los An-­geles but did not know his address. Does anyone? ;. 
Our belated s^^npathics are extended to CHAR-' LEY HITZELBERGER on the death of his wifc,C*' Catherine, last September. Word of this has just ; readied us; a ^lass was said on the Campus in her memory-on February' 1. 
FRANK MARLEY xvriics that the notice of the death of JIM SECCARECCO was not previously mentioned in this column. Jim died on March 13, 1963. 
REV. ANTHONY J. WEBER CSC has been transferred from the Gibault School to the Holy Cross House, Box 176, Fort Portal, Uganda, East .Africa. Other recent moves include MARTIN HECKARD to 311 Clay Street, Hartford, Ky.; MANSEL &HLLER to 449 So. 86th Place, Bir­mingham, Ala.; and BILL McCORMICK to .Apt. 139-D, Cocoa Beach, Fla. 
From the Alumni Office: 
0 

JERRY CONWAY has been named director of public relations of Subscription TV, Inc., Santa Monica, Calif., and he is living in Pacific Palisades. 
JIM COLLINS sent us a clipping stating that Archbishop PAUL HALLINAN is recovering from hepatitis. He entered the hospital Dec 29 and sat up in a wheel chair for the first time on Jan. 20. 
John A. Hoyt, Jr.
'33 Gillespie & O'Connor 
342 Madison Ave. 
New York, N.Y. 
212 MU2-1170 
# 

Word was received in late February of the death of CHARLES RILEY. Chariie originally came out of Middletown, N.Y., and for a number of years he had been HWng in the Philadelphia area, work­ing for the Electric Storage Battery Co. as its in­dustrial relations counsellor. He died on February 11 after an illness of several months. His home ad­dress at death was 3051 Edmonds Road, Lafavette Hill, Pa. 
"In Paradisiun Deducant Tc Angeli." 

BILL LYNCH reported recently tliat MARTY LINSKEY's daughter, Rita Ann, w*ho was grad­uated recently from ^Ianhattanvil]e College of the Sacred Heart at Purchase, N.Y., was married early 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 2964 
in February; that LEO CUMMINGS had been visiting with DICK MEADE at his new home in California and that ED ECKERT had been in 
fl^Iorida recently on a winter holiday. 
A committee has been set up to assist any members of our class who might be coming to New York for a visit to the World's Fair. BILL LYNCH and GEORGE ROHRS have both indicated their \Wllingncs5 to ser\-c on such a committee along with m>*5clf. George Rohrs' address is 236 Park Hill Ave., Yonkcrs, N.Y., and Bill L>"nch can be reached at 55 Oak Woodlands, While Plains, N.V. During the period of the Fair I have asked that 
J my oflice phone number be listed at the top of our ,' column, along with my address. A note from JOE FOLEY gives his new address as P.O. Box 1487, Quebec 2, P.Q. FR. CLEVE &\REY has been transferred and 
• lis new address is 1050 East 163rd Street, Gardens, Calif. 
Ran into MARSHAL MaWENEY at the Notre Dame Club of N.V. meeting in February. Marshal is still with the Department of Justice. 
FR. JIM DONNELLY'S new address is P.O. Box 346, Copperas Cove, Tex. Jim is pastor of the local Holy Family Parish at Copperas Cove. 
Sec and talk rather frequently with JIM ROSS, who is with General Dynamics Corp. here in New York. Jim is one of the ablest tax men tn the East. 
PAUL KREUZ writes that MIKE 0'HAR.V con­tinues to scr\'e with great distinction as a member of the State Supreme Court of Michigan. We arc expecting Mike in N.Y. sometime this year for one 
A>f the Bar /Vssociation Conventions. 
FR. CHARLES SHEEDY is busy preparing for the dedication of the Librar>' at the University on May 7. He is back again at his old desk in the Arts and Letters building on the campus. 
DR. M.\X J. FREEMAN is now located in Van Nuys, Calif. He is engaged in clinical and child psyciiolog>'. As an outlet for his other talents. Max has now acquired a hobby as a landscape artist. 
A nice note came in early in January from FR. MAURICE POWERS, who is now stationed on the campus and has been recently appointed the ^\ssist­ant Pastor of Sacred Heart Church of Notre Dame. He suggests that if any of us visit the campus wc stop by at the Presbyter\' and say hello. 
A very interesting report is in circulation among the \-arious urban renewal development agencies, which highlights the progress of land clearing and 
^redevelopment in the St. Louis, Mo., area. Tliese 
Reports arc a singular tribute to CHARLIE FAR­RIS, long-time executive director of the Redevelop­ment Authority in St. Louis. We all wish Charlie continuing success in his exciting work in this field. 
From the Alumni Office: Loyola U. of New Orleans has just completed a new $1,475,000 student center designed by JULES 
K. DE LA VERGNE. 
JOE KURTH is selling securities in northern Indiana for Chappcll Securities of Indianapolis. 
FR. CHARLES SHEEDY, testifying before a Commonwealth of Mass. legislative committee as a director of the Am. League to Abolish Capital Punishment, contended that capital punishment is unnecessary, outmoded and barbarous. He insisted that, while the state may have the right to take a criminal's life. It cannot do so in the name of religion or morality. 
LOU CHREiST, prcs. of South Bend Toy Co., in a voice of the people letter defended the toy­maker's aide of unassembled toys which frustrated parents must put together In the last minute rush on Chrbtmas Eve. 
ZIG "KITT" KITKOWSKI's daughter Mar>­has been named an editorial asst. to JIM MUR­PHY '47 In the dcpt. of public information at ND. 
CONF To: Sub 
IDENTIAL MEMO ND Class of 1934 ect: 30th Anniversary REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 19 64 
t^M T. Edward Carey ^ ^ 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: TONY PUGLIESE, asst. public relations director for International Telephone & Telegraph Corp. in New York, sent us news of his son, LT. JOHN PUGLIESE '62, %%ho is now in Scliweinfurt, Germany. We received a letter from JOE CLxXRK saying that BOB BUTLER moved in at the Elks with him on a Thursday, and on Monday (July 22) when Joe returned to their suite about 4 p.m. he found that Bob had died shortly after he had left at 5 a.m. Bob had been awake and talked to him at that time. He sent the following note attached to his letter: "ROBERT WILLIAM BUTLER 1912-1963 
(Photo courtcs>- of the South Bend Tribune) 

CLASS OF '34, dominating the South Bend Challenge Night Basketball Banquet and tribute to retiring Coach Johnny Jordan, chose to make the multiple-purpose event an occasion to promote their 30th Anniversary Reunion in June. Prominent members included (from left): Bob Cahill, ticket manager and local chairman; Hugh Devore, as^tant athletic director; Edward Krause, athletic director and Challenge II speaker; and Walt Kennedy, guest speaker and National Basketball Assn. czar. 
"Death as it must come to all men, came to Robert William 'Butts' Butler on July 22, 196S at Los Angeles when His Creator called him to hu eternal reward. 
"His demise was sudden — a heart attack — for he died in his sleep. 
"The last day of his life was a Sunday, That day he attended Holy Mass and *hit the rail* (Notre Dame parlance). 
"Therefore, he was prepared to meet his Maker, and Our Lady, The Mother of God. 
"Bob was a rather handsome fellow with a ready-smile and quick of wit. He was truly a real Notre Dame man in every sense of the word. He loved his fcllowman, and he loved life. 
"In\'ariably he met you with a smile and a cheery word. 
"Interesting, he was wont to make those about him happy whether stranger or new-found friend. Singing was one of his fortes, as he loved to en> tcrtaln. 
*'Conversationally he was most direct and to the point, for he was a good thinker and loved to ex­press good thoughts on most any subject. Loving the opera, he could recall most of the operettas almost verbatim. 
"In his speech, he never uttered a %vord but the finest for womanhood. This, then, was his finest attribute. He respected the ladies and felt they belonged on a pedestal. 
"He ser\-ed his country and gave his left arm for this experience. He was a solid citizen, good father, 6nc husband, and noble friend. 
"His aims and ideals were always the highest, and while he perhaps did not achieve enormous fortune, nor great fame, it was not that he did not try, but his greatest legacy that he lea\'es is love for his fcllowman. 
*'May God in His inefTable mercy grant him peace and a holy rest. 
"REQUIESCAT IN PACE." 

FR. EDMUND MURRAY CSC u-as the prindpal speaker at the St. Patrick's day banquet of the Ancient Order of Hibernians in South Bend. Fr. Murray spoke on the life of St. Patrick; dis­crimination against the Irish in the US in the last centur>', and against Catholics in Northern Ireland; the contributions of the Irish to Western civiliza­tion; the role played by the Irish in this country's wars, and Eire's fight for freedom. 
MAJ. BOB HALPIN Is now living, in Home­stead, Fla., and sent an inquiry about the coming reunion. 
MOOSE KRAUSE is busy on the speaktnfc cir­cuit hoping to be able, in the next two years, to speak at all of the 175 N'otrc -Dome Clubs in the country. 
The Saturday Evening Post and Columbia m^a ­zines ran feature articles in recent issues on WALT KENNEDY as NBA commissioner. 
BOB CAHILL is local chairman for the 30th Reunion and he was seen conferring with WALT KENNEDY, HUGH DEVORE and MOOSE KRAUSE at the ND basketball banquet. Conver­sation: Basketball or Class Reunion? 
pur sympathy to CLE.MENS NIEDZIELSKI, Bay City, Mich, on the death of his son on Jan. 
'35 Franklyn Hochrciter 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson, Md. 

From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to ART CONRAD on becoming a member of the board of directors of Chicago's USO. KURT SIMON, pres. of Simon Bros., South Bend, is a man who looks to the future. The day before ground breaking ceremonies for the company's new 74,(X)0-squarc-foot warehouse on a new nine*a£re site (to be completed Oct. I) the old warehouse had a $75,000 fire. Manv thanks to TOM FLVNN for the pictures of JIM ARMSTRONG'S trip to the islands. We are still waiting for the names and phone ntimbers of the hula maids. With all the interest in the coming Republican election, BILL DULLER is making news as their national chairman. He was one of the speakers on campus for the Mock Convention. JOHNNY JORDAN has received many honors and testimonials on his retirement from ND basket­ball, and at the end of the ND basketball banquet. his friends presented him with the keys to a new station wagon. ­
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964-53 
BALL had a detached retina in one e>-e that took him to Rochester, Minn., and Boston. Celly is back at accounting at Bendlx where he's been evc ^ since graduation. His oldest son, Steve, is a junio^ at ND \%hile two others, Greg and Dave, are at St. Edward's, Tex. JOHN MURPHY will coach 
the freshmen at ND again in the new Ara. CHUCK SWEENEY lost his boss when JOE KUHARICH took over the Eagles coaching job but Chuck still plans to officiate National League football games next fall. Chuck*s partner in the Blue and Gold Motel, lawTcr LOUIS ANDERSON, \-acationed a bit in Las Vegas but othenvise won more cases than he tried last year. With no encouragement from JIM BEAUDWAY, JIM LAHEY, NELSON VOGEL, DON FISHER or BILL GIBBONS, but with my wife's conditional approval (so long as I don't win), I'm running for the state legislature 
this year again. And on that high political note ^ 
I close with an appeal to those of you who haven't sent in your questionnaires to do so, now! It's your civic *38 duty. 
From the Alumni Office* 
ALEC SHELLOGG, director of athletics for the CYO in Los Angeles, stopped at ND for a few days in April on his way back from a visit to his native town of Ne%v Castle, Pa. The newspaper in New Castle selected an all-time New Castle high school team of \vhich .-Mec %vas made a member. He attended a dinner there on April 18. While in South Bend he visited with Ara Parseghian and . also his old teammates, CHUCK SWEENEY and: JOHN MURPHY. i f 
LOU FOX — president and gen. mgr. of Kunkle"-• Valve Co., Inc.; bd. cltairman of J. E. Lonergan" Co. of Philadelphia; pres. of Fox Realty Co., and ­a director of Indiana Bank & Trust Co. — has been reappointed to the board of ariation commis-. sioners by the mayor of Fort Wa>-ne, Ind. 
E. R. HAGGAR stopped ofT in Hawaii in March on his u-ay to the Orient. 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN took a well-deser\ed va­cation in Miami Beach and spent most of the time talking about ND to anyone who would listen, in­cluding Yogi Bcrra during an inter\'iew with him (according to RED SMFFH '27). 
BILL MAHONEY made a hurried trip home be­cause of the anti-American demonstrations in Ghana. He arrived at his sister's home in time to see the advance copy of the recent issue of the ALUM­NUS containing the story by him oil Ghana's friendly people. fl' 
JOHN SCOTT has been elected v-p of Federated Publications, Inc., a daily newspaper group with headquarters in Battle Creek, Mich. He is editor and publisher of the Lafayette, Ind., Journal and Courier, also has been named acting publisher of the Boise, Ida., daily and Sunday Statesman. He commutes monthly between the two cities. 
TOM HARD.ART ^vas elected executive v-p of Horn & Hardart Co., which operates a chain of cafeterias and automats in the New York metro­politan area. 
JOHN MURPHY, teacher and former coach at John Adams High School in South Bend, was named asst. freshman coacli and will retain his part-time status at ND. 
BURNIE BAUER took the Gabriel Richard In-^ stitute Leadership course offered by the Confra-W temity of Christian Doctrine, campaigned for Democratic nomination for state representative and 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1939 Subject: Silver Jubilee REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-14 1964 
James N. Motschall 
•39 Singcr-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit, Mich. 
June 12, 13 and 14 should be key days in the 

lives of the men of Notre Dame and the Class of 
1939. DAVE MESKILL, JOE HANNAN and 
held our second meeting on Campus on Marcli 13, 
to put the finishing touches on the arrangements 
we are making for all men of the Class of *39 
who will attend our Silver Jubilee Reunion this 
summer. 
By now you will liavc received the brocliure that 

your committee prepared telling you exactly what 
ND-FBI ALUMNI, assembled recently for a trip to Catalina Island during the National Convention of the Society of Former Special Agents of the FBI, included 
(l.-r.) Cy KcUchcr '35, Rex Ellis '40, John V. Moran '30, Joe O'Neill '36, John Kdly '40, Ed Monahan '44 and Har>*ey Foster '39. These represent dozens more. 
•^JE Larry Palko^ic 207 North Market Street Johnsto%\-n, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: JACK SAUNDERS has sold his business to an­other alumnus, DICK McGOLDRICK '50. 
If you happen to be in New York City some time, you might enjoy visiting with JACK ROBINSON-Jack has had both legs amputated because of re­curring blood dots, but by way of the newspapers and his many friends, he still stays in touch with his old school. CH.ARLIE QUIXN passed along word about Robinson and suggested that readers write to him at 11, l.\, 15th St., Garden City, L.I., N.Y. 
DICK BAKER has been named the new president of Kaufman's of Kentucky {Louis\-iIle). 
JERRY VOGEL r«:eived a plaque from the River Park Post of the American Legion honoring him for services he has rendered the River Park com­munity (South Bend) and especially for his coopera­tion with the Post in many child-welfare programs, 
BOB DEVINE LLB '36 has formed the law firm of Devine and Vallerie. 
Joseph P. Quinn 
•37 P.O. Box 275 Laltc Lenape Andover, N.J. * 

From the .\lumni Ofiice: 
JIM-McHUGH suffered a heart attack in mld-Januarj', spent a month at St. Luke's Presbyterian, and is now recuperating at home. He expected to be back on the job in April, meanwhile appearing as editor of the cami\-al magazine in Sally Rand's "special" on XBC. 
PAUL FOLEY has an article in the March '64 Atlantic Monthly. JOHN FAR.\B.\UGH has filed for the Republican nomination for state senator. 
ED REARDON has become a member of Thomas McGee and Sons, Kansas City, Mo., one of the Middle West's largest insurance agencies. 
HOWARD MURDOCK of LaPorte, Ind., a prof, of chemistry at the Michigan City center of Purdue U., ended a radio sportscasting career spanning two decades in ^farch after the broad­casts of the Indiana high scliool basketball tour­ney's. He is going to devote more time to his teaching career. 
BOB HALEY has been appointed executive v-p of W. J. Hagerty & Sons. Bob will assume ad­ministrative responsibilities for the firm's world-wide manufacture and distribution of silver polish prod­ucts, from its South Bend headquarters. The firm recently opened its own mfg. facilities in Zcist, Holland, and is completing appointment of dis­tributors in Australia and New Zealand. 
HARRY SWOYER stopped in on campus in February to check on his son Harr>*, who is a freshman. 
If Liz and Dick had troubles in their travels so did JIM BACON of AP. Trailing their lawyers from Mexico to New York, he lost his luggage, ar­rived in the big city wearing tropical clothes and looking like he was bound for a luau in the middle of a January- blizzard. He had to shell out $200 for warmer duds, 
P.\UL MULLER was named "Man of the Year" by the ND Club of Indianapolis. 
ED FISCHER of the communication arts dept. delivered the main address at a day of workshops, seminars and discussions held in January at St. Mary's Academy for high school journalists from the South Bcnd-Mishawaka area. 
-38 Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave 
South Bend, Did. 

AVhen you read this—after hunting all over for your glasses only to find you've had 'em on all the time—I ^vill have made the great sacrifice as the class of 1938's ambassador to the Class of '39 Silver Anniversary reunion—^just to make sure tliat some of you haven't stayed over from our frolic of a year ago, and to welcome those of you who might have been delayed en route or mistaken about the year. Then, too, since ours was the best reunion in the school's history, we'll give them the benefit of our advice. 
Got four more questionnaires back, all from no-shows at the reunion. LARRY DILLON, whose brother Joe is president of the local ND alumni club, wrote from 145 Conrad Court, Winter Park, Florida, where he moved in 1958 to go into the ice machine distribution business and is treasurer of the Central Florida ND Club. Larry was back only for the '48 reunion but promises to make the next. He and wife Maxine have three girls and a son. Another Southerner replying, DR. VINCE SHER. ROD, 2900 Windsor Dr., Odessa, Tex., has two sons at St. Louis U., where he did his med studies. Vince also has a son and daughter at home. EDDIE KILRAIN, the old tennis team captain, never has made a reunion though he lives in Indianapolis, one of our local suburbs. Eddie has a son, Tom, at Indiana U. and two girls and a boy at home. Ed's wife died in 1953 and he was married to Colleen ^IcConnell, a year later. He manages as general director for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. JOHN SEXTON, who also missed all the reunions but the next one, wrote from 1312 Hillside Rd. Wynnewood, Pa. John has a son, John, at Villa-nova and another, Robert, at St. Joseph's and two girls at home. He is brancli manager for a grocery concern when not Toastmastering, Rotar>'ing and Holy Naming. 
CHARLIE CALLAHAN showed me a letter from HAL WILLIAMS complaining that people take his younger All-American brother Bob to be hb son, while FR. BILL MAHONEY wrote a brief note checking up on his reunion dues and news. 
Movie Shorts (Silcnts): ED WRAPP from Conn, to 858 Sunset Rd. Winnetka, 111. PAUL LOCHER from France to 4833 Rodman St. NW, Washington, 
D.C. COL. JOHN BERTELING from CaliL to Quantico, Va. ED HOGAN from Dayton, Ohio to 4608 RaddifTe Blvd., Bingliamton. N.Y. CHARLEY DUKE from Chicago to 10 Dolphin Lane, North-port, N.Y. 
News about the Never-Lcfts, as ED CRONIN calls us local lads, includes two sad notes. CHARLEY BOROWSKI's mother died and CELLY 

54 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
is going to happen on the campus during your re­union. We hope this lias created a great desire for •o u to return, not only to sec your fcllou* classmates, 
lit to rc-vlsit your favorite spots on the Campus as well as to see for the first time many of the new and beautiful buildings erected since you were last at Notre Dame. 
Shortly thereafter you will have received the official application and invitation from the Univer­sity to attend the reunion. Please fill this out immediately and return it to the campus. 
On March 10, I received a very nice letter from JOHN GRIFFIN JR. of St. Louis, Mo., who not only informed me that he would attend the reunion, but bragged about the 100% attendance for all '39ers who live in or near St. Louis. 
Thev are as follows: JOHN PAUL SULLIV/VN, 

^.unselor at law; JAMES C. WALSH, vice-presi­dent and treasurer of the May Co.; FRANK X. TULLY, general purchasing agent of Ralston Purina; and WILLIAM J. COSTIGAN, a leader in the Citizens for Educational Freedom. He abo noted that in recent months he talked to JIM McGOLDRICK of New York and PHIL MA­LONEY of W'asliington, D.C., who indicated their intentions of being at the reunion also. He is hoping to sec ROD TROUSDALE and "CHUB" HALL on campus. 
Thank you for your nice note, John. The man who probably lives furthest from the campus, JOE ILVRRINGTON of the Republic of ^Panama, wrote me the other day that he will definitely be at the reunion. In his letter he stated that he had dinner in Panama with JIM RAf\F, our classmate, and ART KIRBY, also of Notre Dame. When Joe was in the States, he saw some of his good friends, such as BOB PICK, STEVE O'MExXRA and MATT GONRING. 
I was also ver>' pleased to hear from TOM ZIEGLER of Pennsylvania. In his note he stated that all tlie Notre Dame men \vho live in the Pittsburgh area are definitely planning on being at our reunion. 
Your committee headed by JOE H.\NNAN on the campus, as well as your officers, namely D.WE MESKILL and PAUL RICE of Chicago and yours truly, have been working exceptionally hard to make this reunion an outstanding ont. We are planning special treats for everyone and I am sure that just being on the campus is worth any effort 
^nd any expense that you might have to incur to be there. 
We are all anxious lo vbit with you and to rehash the good old days when we were all strug­gling through our classes 25 years ago. 
See you at the bar. 

t
From the Alumni Office: JOE HANNAN was installed as chairman of the youth committee of a newly organized council of the Knights of Columbus in South Bend. Joe and his wife are cochairmcn for arrangements for the annual meeting of the St. Joseph County Chapter of the Am. Red Cross. MAURICE FRANK was elected second v-p of he South Bend Fair Employment Practices Com­lission. ED O'CONNOR has written another book en­titled I Was Dancing. Hope you make a million in sales, Ed. It will also be produced as a Broad­way play next fall-Look for the bovs in the green berets at the Silver Jubilee June 12-14! 
^Ai% James G. Brown 144 East 44th St. New York, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
9 The daughter of Mr. and Mrs. WALTER SWEITZ­ER, South Bend, Ind,, is listed in the latest edition of Who's Who Among Students in Ameri­can Colleges and Universities. She is a senior at Ball State Teachers College, Muncie, Ind. 
THOMAS P. FORD, of the New York City law-firm of Sherman and Sterling, has been appointed to the ND Law School Advisory Council. 
In February- the Peoria (111.) Journal Star devoted a quarter of a page telling the tale of TOM LISTON, the man who heads a complex of nine large department stores in Illinois. He flies between the cities where the Bergner Dept. Stores are located, but he no longer pilots his own plane because he found out life insurance is cheaper without a pilot's license. 
AUGUST F. BOSSU JR. '39 In Cleveland, a Three-Letter Chanip 

When wc spotlishtcd Toledo Coach Tom McHu^h '54 in the Year End '63 issue, the proud young partisans of Cleveland's Augie Bossu lost no time pointing out that Toledo Central Catholic was not the first Catholic school to win the state football title in Ohio. In 1957 Benedictine High School was awarded undisputed possession of the Ohio state championship and Head Coach Bossu was named Ohio Scholastic Coach of the Year by the Cleveland Touchdown Club. 
.•\ugie began his 25-year coaching career at Notre Dame in 1939 after receiving his .*\B, coaching freshman football while tak­ing graduate work. In 1940 he moved on to Mineola (N.Y.) High for a season before entering the -Army in 1941 for a five-year hitch during Worid War U. 
After militar)- ser\-ice, during which he coached football for two years at Fort Mon­mouth, N.J., Augie returned to grad school at Western Reser\-e and Stanford universi­ties and married Florence Weinberger of Alameda. Calif., in 1946. In 1947 he won his master's degree in education at Stanford and began 17 years of teaching and coach­ing in Cleveland high schools. 
In the past nine years as head coach of BenedictinCj Augie has guided the Bengal gridders to one state championship, four city championships, one Cleveland co-championship and seven East Senate League titles. His teams have never finished lower than second in league standings, and he has compiled a Rockne-era over-all record of 70 victories, 18 defeats and four ties. As head baseball coach at Benedictine Augie has been equally impressive, piloting the Bengals to sLx championships and an over-all record of 174 wins against 41 losses. 
In the family league Augie and Florence Bossu have also been champions with eight children ranging in age from 6 to 16, six girls and two boys. 
•^ 1 James F. Spdlnum 7 East 42iid St. New York, N.Y. 

From the Alumni OfEce: 
FRANK ^VEMHOFF, v-p of Indiana's first ad­vertising agency, was elected to the newly created post of senior v-p and also elected secretary. He has been with Caldwell, Larkin & Sidener-Van Riper since '57. 
WARREN DEAHL is the newly elected president of the South Bend C. of C. and one of his first jobs was to pay tribute to ND for its contributioa to the community. 
After 15 years on the sales staff of Ladies* Hone Journal and Better Homes & Gordou SAMUEL NIELD became associated with This Week ^fj^»­zine, and three years later, this March, he was appointed v-p for newspaper relations. He is still pretty good with a golf club. 
TOM CARTY JR., pres. of Carty Heating Corp.. was elected president of the Mechanical Contractors Assn. of N.Y. at their 79th annual meeting. The association's members arc the major installers of heating, piping, air conditioning and ventilating systems in the ^fetropo^tan area. 
M 2 ^VUUam M. Hickey 3333 West 45th Place Chicago, 111. 

LARRY KELLEY and BILL PADON are now associates in several oil drilling ventures in the Houston area. TOM WALKER on a recent western trip had a nice visit with ROY (BUD) MURRAY who is still living in Butte, Mont. Bud has sold his auto agenc>- and is currently looking for a new venture. Tom reports that his visit with MIKE HINES in Las Vegas was considerably enlivened by the menagerie that Mike has at his ranch. The menagerie includes a bear, a llama, wolves, seals with a pond, monkeys, and of all things, a python! Among Tom's winter \'isitors in Fort Lauderdale was FRANK POLLNOW who is still using his chemical manufacturing abilities in St. Louis. TOM TEARNEY is now managing director of all of the Catholic Cemeteries in the Diocese of Chicago. 
DAN (BUD) SHOUVLIN just came hack from a European trip where he had a nice vbit with VINCE McALOON in Rome. Bud is in the machinery manufacturing business in Springfield, Ohio. Address a%'ailable if anyone wants to contact him. He also reports that CARROLL PITKIN was recently through Springfield and is currently very happy that he moved to Buffalo from Montpelier. PAUL TAFEL was kind enough to send us a picture of his contribution to the population explosion in Louisville. Again wc ask to hear from some of you concerning yourselves and our classmates. 
From the Alumni Office: Class Secretary- BILL HICKEY has been ap­pointed to the Board of Trustees of his school, Morgan Park .Academy. Last June 100% of the Academy's graduates went on to college or a uni­vcrsitv. DR. JOSEPH FELDMEIER of Blue Bell, Pa., has been appointed director of the Franklin Institute Laboratories for research and development in Philadelphia, Pa. Joe and Janet are the proud parents of three sons and two daughters. DONALD GRANT, Glem-iew, 111., has been named manager of plant accounting control for US Gypsum Co. Don and Kathryn are the parents of six: Jean, 19; Carolyn, 18; Diane, 15; Kathleen, II; Michael, 7; and Sharon, 8 mos. GERALD OROSZ, chairman of the education dept. at Mt. St. Mary's College, Emmitsburg, Md., has been included in this year's edition of \M}o*s ^Mio In American Education. He currently is a candidate for a doctorate from the U. of Mary­land. He is also a member of the collegers steer­ing committee which is preparing for a 10-year accreditation review by the Middle States Assn. In addition to his college duties, he Is a member of the Maryland State Teachers .Assn., the American Assn. of School Administrators, .the Middle Atlantic Placement Officers Assn., and the Knights of Co­lumbus. When they razed St. Joseph Church on HIU St. in South Bend, the pastor FR. JOSEPH F. MURPHY CSC found a metal box In the corner­stone which contained, among other things, the annual catalogue from ND. The cornerstone was laid on July 17, 1881 and FR. WILUAM CORBY CSC, president of ND from 1877 to I88I, ofiSdated at the ceremonies. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 55 
CHARLES Mu f ARLAN'E stopprd in at the Alumni Office in Jzauary looking for the addresses of TOM GILLESPIE and GEORGE SAXON. He left Saudi Arabia to live in South Bend until June when he plans to move to San Antonio. 
M ^ Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Ave LaCrcsccnta, Cal. 
From the Alumni Office: 
WALLY ZIEMBA, a fonner asst, football coach 
at ND and now a judge In Hammond, Ind., goes 
to Randolph St. in Chicago for his steam baths. 
President Johnson appointed ED HANRAHAN, 
1st asst. Illinois attorney general, the new US dis­
trict attorney for Chicago. Ed, father of four, re­
ceived his Harx*ard Ia%*' degree in '48 and from '53 
to '61 u-as In private practice In Chicago's Loop. 
The New York Football Giants should ivin aJI 
their games this year because they have H.ARRY 

WRIGHT for offensive backfield coach. The new-
Giant coacli lives in Great Neck with his wife 
Clare and their five children. 
Dr. NORMAN H.AASER, associate prof, of math 

at ND, has written a book Intermediate Analj-sis, 
the second volume of a course In mathematical 
anah*sis. He had Dr. Joseph LaSallc and Dr. 
Joseph SuUiv-an, former faculty members, helping 
him as co-authors. 
BOB TOWNER received a plaque during half­

time ceremonies of a high school basketball game 
in recognition of "his many years of scr\-ice in 
the promotion of prep sports." Bob joined the 
South Bend Tribune's sports department In Janu­
ary', !39, and became a full-time employee In June 
of '41. 

CONFIDENTIAL MEMO 
To: ND aass of 1944 
Subject: 20th Anniversary 


REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 1964 
*MA George A. Bariscillo, Jr. 
• " 444 GoU Rd. Deal Park, N.J. 
As this column is being written, word is being 

received from all parts of the nation that *44ers 
are packing their bags and heading back to the 
campus for our 20th Reunion. The crowd on hand 
should top the massive turnout for our 15th and 
the occasion augurs to be one that will long be 
remembered. 
Class President JOHN L^'NCH has announced 

that FR. JOE GALLAGHER will celebrate the 
Memorial Mass on Saturday morning, and local 
chairman BOB LEHMAN has all details carefully 
worked out. 
BILL WALDROX reports JOE GALL will be on hand from New Hampshire and that JACK WHTTELY from New York, R.\Y TOLSON from Texas, and BILL HOOLEY from California are all planning to attend. Ditto for ANGELO BER­TELLI, HOWIE GARRIGAN (uho is still retired and living a life of case), FRANK GARIB.ALDI, MYLES KELLY and *'BLACK JOHN" MURPm'. Waldron is working on a "mass transportation" plan. 
OZZIE DOL.\N (Dubuque, Iowa) will be \-ying for top honors in the offspring competition—he has eight! (Can you top that?) 
TOM BRENNAN, who practices law in Houston, is In charge of golf competition awards. He is bringing along an oil well or two for the '44 golf champ. Tom advises that JOE DILLON and FRANK STUMPF, along with FRAN CURRAN, can be counted on, together with BOB Ma\U­UFFE, PHIL RUSSO and BILL PHELAN. 
WALT ROGERS, who is with Crown Stove Works in Chicago, reports JIM LLOYD is now director of market planning for Bissel Inc., Grand Rapids, responsible for market research and market plans Sor new Bissel products. 
We were sorrj- to learn of TOM KERRIGAN*s illness, and the prayers of the class are earnestly requested for him. 
See you on the campus June 12. 

From the Aliminl OfSce: BOB LEHMAN and JAKE J.ANOWSKI '51 were ticket co-chairmen for the South Bend Press Club's 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
TEEING OFF for a recent match at New York's Winged Foot Golf Course are Sam Nield '41 (left), former ND golf captain, now a sales executive for This Week Magazine, ^ and Club Champion Bob Wilke '36, ND athlete now with RKO corporate division^ N.Y. 
15lh .Annual Gridiron Show, *'the Hoaxes of 1964." TTic "Hoaxes" consisted of a banquet, the "roast­ing" of special guests by a roastmaster, and the presentation of skits acted out by Press Club mem­bers. 
BOB METZLER was elected to the Board of Directors by the stockholders of the Mercantile Bank &. Trust Co. of Kansas City, Mo. Bob is a partner in Metzler Bros. Ins. Co. and v-p of Metzler Properties Inc. He is the father of four sons and two daughters and lives in SIiawTiee Mission, Kan. 
DR. CHARLES RALEY has been adranccd to the rank of senior research chemist by the Dow Chemical Co. Chuck and Jane have three chil­dren: Charles, 14; Leiia, 11; and Amy, 10 mos. 
JOHN M. XL\RTIN is the new president and a member of the board of directors of Cortland In­dustries, Inc., Cortland, N.Y. 
MISSOURI Mititary Academy 75th Anni­versary featured (from left) prescntatitMi of citations by Col. Stribling to two ND Men among six Missouri Military grads for "service within their professions whidi has brought honor to their alma mater" — Rev. Edward A. Buenger CSC '42, ND High, Niles, IlL, and Edward T. McNaliy '36, Coffeyville, Kan., mfgr. 
Frank M. Linehan 
•45 General Electric Co. 600 Mam St. Johnson City, N.Y. 

Congratulations to more than 100 of our class­mates who returned the query sent with the Christ­mas message. If you have not sent yours in yet —how about doing it now?! 
FRANK BEAUDINE reports in from FuIIcrlon. Calif., that he and Martha have two bo>'s In high school, as well as two other children, boy an ^ girl. Frank is vice-president of operations for WlB 
P. Fuller Co., part of Hunt Foods and Industries. FR. HAROLD BRIDE CSC Is currently doing overseas development work (fund raising) for Notre Dame College, Dacca, East Pakistan. Anyone wishing to assist—I know Father Harold will be grateful—address: Holy Cross Missions, Washing­ton, D. C. 20017. Father has his master's and doctorate In economics from the U. of Oregon. JIM BRYAN heads Br>-an Chevrolet In Mctairie, La., Is active In civic affairs and auto dealers asso­ciations. Jim and Fay have two boys and three girls. JOSE CARDEN.AS reported in before the trouble started in Panama, where he is minister of public works. Jose and Thclma will be celebrating thcii^ tenth ivedding anniversary' June 12. A The ex-mayor of Vetvlllc, STEVE HAUSER, Is back at Notre Dame on a staff scholarship from his employer, Mitre Corp. of Bedford, Mass. He is systems analysis department head for them. Steve has his master's in math from Notre Dame, re­ceiving It in '51. Steve and Genevieve have one boy and one girl. BOB LUKE is a project engineer for Deere 5: Co. at Moline, III. Bob and Jeanne and their six boys live m Bcttendorf, Iowa. HARRY MacLAUGHLlN like so many of our classmates really does not know what class he should be in—started in '42, left with the RO's in January '45, returned in '46 and completed in Jan­uary* '47. Harr>', stay with us and become an afhliatc of '47. The MacLaughlin's have fouij^ bo>-s and live in Oak Park, 111. Harry is a buye ^ with Scars. Patricia and BYRON MARTIN of La Grange Park, III., celebrated 15 years of wedded bliss January- 22nd. They have two girls. Byron is director of process development for Knorr Products, Argo, 111. J.\CK McGRANE is factor>- manager for Wor­cester Pressed Steel Co. in Worcester, Mass. Jack and Maude make their home In Torrington, Conn., with their daughter and three sons. ED NOONAN has recently moved to Palatine, III.,wbcrc he is regional sales manager for Simpson Hinbcr Co. Florence and Ed have three boys and 
. two daughters. A long letter was received from BOB RIORDAN 
in Switzerland, where he is director of European operations for Wheelabrator Corporation. Bob ja>-s in part: "It is thrilling to be here in Europe 
^i d witness the economic boom with labor short­ages, traffic jams, more recreation, and especially interesting to us, the greater use of manufacturing and marketing ideas which we have come to accept as commonplace. It offers a sharp contrast with the old things which abound, such as the castles, walled cities and centuries-old cathedrals." 
SAM RIZK checks in from Tawrinburg, N. C , 
•where he heads Rizk Department Store. Married for five years to Marie Esscy, they have a onc-and­one family. Sam, naturally, b active in the Chamber of Commerce and is a Trustee of Scotland Memorial Hospital. 
DICK SAYERS Is director of dlsiribuiion for 
Afonsanto Chemical Co. St. Louis. Dick has his |Bkaster*5 in chemistry from Columbia. Ellen and T)ick have five children, the oldest a sophomore in 
high school. 
BILL WADDLVGTON sent along his $5.00 dues with his note. Bill is publication director of Lcbhar-Friedman Publications in New York, A Seira Club member, Bill commutes to Summit, 
N . J., for Dorothy, their three daughters and two sons—one son WiHiam Carey named after the "old redhead," I bet. 
BROTHER AUGUSTUS teaches algebra and re­ligion at Holy Cross High in River Grove, III. 
The former assistant manager at "George's" has been named vice-president of the First National Bank of San Diego. He holds hb LL.B from 
a^Iarquettc and teaches law at the University of 
•a n Diego. PHIL MARTIN and his wife Kathleen have three children and live in La Afesa, Calif. 
DR. KEN KELLY practices anesthesiology in Buffalo, N.Y. Ken received his MD from the 
U. of Buffalo and is a director of N.Y. Society of Anesthesiology'. Ken and Pat have four cliildren. 
£ver>'ODe used to kid MIKE GARRY as to being from nowhere but it seems many of our classmates have found this place called Fairmont, Minn., within the last year. HxVRRY RYAN, his wife Dclores; TOM McaVUGHEY; WALT McDER-MOTT and Kitty plus their nine, and F.ATHER DOWNEY, the Mar>'knoIIer whom we enjoyed so much—all have stopped off to see Mike and Eliza­beth and the seven children. Nfike is manager of Garr>' Elevators and is active in his community— director of the First National Bank, Exchange Club and Community Chest, plus being treasurer of the 

|AIinncsota K. of C. 
^ Hoping to see HANK FRiVILEY on one of his trips this way from Elmira, where he is operations manager for the power tube dcpt. of Wcstrnghousc Electric. Hank and his St. Mary's wife, Margaret Kirby, have eight children. 
GEORGE DESPOT is president of Petroleum Investments Inc., Shrcvcport, La. George really has his work cut out for him as assistant state chairman of the Republican Party. The Despots have two daughters. 
JIM C/VMPELL reports in from Columbus, Miss., where he is manager of product reliabilit>' for Amer­ican Bosch Arma. Corporation. Margaret and Jim have four children, three boys and a girl. 

Tcmpus Fugit—BOB CONNELLY had a son graduated from high school last year and another Bn e this year. Bob is assistant trust oflicer of 
Crocker—Citizens National Bank at San Jose, Calif. 
Bob and Yvonne also have a daughter. 
In just about 12 months wc will be heading for the Golden Dome for our 20tli. Your officers and classmates hope you arc planning to attend. The dates are June 11, 12 and 13. I hate to sound like the pastor at church—alwa^-s preaching money, but I know JIM DONNELLY would appreciate receiv­ing more dues money (55.00). It will guarantee a better reunion and also build up our Mass fund. 
A daughter arrived at the Linehan's, Feb. 18. The score is now one boy and two girls. 
From the Alumni Office: TONY TOCCO, manager of the engine com-

«
Donents dcpt,, engine and foundry div., product fcngineering office at Ford Motor Co., gave a talk in South Bend at the Januar>- meeting of the ND Chapter of the .American Society for Metals. How much luckier can you get than to have been in FR. JOHN WALSH's shoes the first of March when he presented Mrs. Bob Hope with the Chicago Alumni Club's Lady of the Year award at the Challenge 11 Night dinner? Speaking of alumni clubs and emcee's, what's this wc hear about DAVE CONDON emceeing for the mini Club of Chicago when they saluted their Rose Bowl champs in February. Dave, where Is your N D spirit? Dave was also toastmaster for the Rockne Club of America Annual Dinner. Citations w*ere pre­sented to BILL BROWN, "Tennis Player of the 
Year"; MIKE DeCICCO, "Fencing Coach of the 
Year"; GEORGE IRELAND, "Basketball Coach 
of the Year" and JACK McALLISTER, "Sports 
Equipment Man of the Year." The Irish were well 
represented at DR. D. M. NIGRO'S affair. Dave 
is still up to his old tricks, like writing under the 
name of Barbara Condon and running a blank 
space where a disk jockey's picture should be. 
DR. R.-\Y BADDOUR, prof, of chemical engi­
neering at MIT, came back to ND to deliver a 
series of three lectures the first of April and our 
CE dcpt. held an informal tea (or him. 
DR. TOM BERGIN has been named to the 
newly created post of dean of continuing educa­
tion here at ND. See the "Spotlight" in this issue. 
BISHOP MARK McGRATH CSC was inter­
viewed on "Latin .America: Its Urgent Needs'* and 
his comments were published in Our Sunday Visitor. 
PHIL M.ARTIN, active member of the ND Club 
of San Diego, has been promoted to v-p of the First 
National Bank of San Diego. Phil and Kathleen 
have three children, Patricia, Michael and Mark. 
The Alumni Office has received numerous re­quests for permission to reprint the Judge WIL­LIAM OBERNHLLER story which appeared in the Fcbruari'-March Issue of the ALUMNUS, In Febru­ary there were two stories in the local South Bend paper about Bill and his ideas of justice for teen­agers. 



'4A ^^^^^ ^' ^^^^^^^ 
60 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 
THRE.\T BRINGS RESULTS 
The threat of serializing the life and times of ELMER ANGSMAN causes one classmate to speak out. 
FRANK RUGGIERO writes that he and Elmer were bloodmates on the '44 and '45 football squads and both now bear dentures for a few missing teeth which were left behind on the gridiron. Frank was bicuspid champ of the Na\-y game. 
DR. THOMAS P. BERGIN '43 Kellogg's Dean to Nourkh Intellects 
Notre Dame alumni can expect to be hearing from Dr. Tom Bergin, proposing a diet of "Special K" for intellectual nourish­ment and dispensing postgraduate breakfasts packed with educational vitamins at a new Kellogg Center. 
Dr. Bergin has been named to a newly created post as dean of continuing educa­tion at the University, assuming his new duties in February. Father Hesburgh, who 
Frank lives with his wife and son Ixmurd ia Neptune, N.J., and is with the city school system as a social studies teachers - He is also fre^unan football and baseball coach.,. His son, who is only a junior, has starred in both football and baseball. A dose neighbor of Frank's is JOHN DMHSE, the ex N. D. coach. 
Elmer, by the way, was last noted in Chicago as general manager of the American Brokerage Co. Let's hear from you other classmates. No replies No column. 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT VAOER is now v.p of engineering and research for Lockheed Aircraft Service Co. in On­tario, Calif. 
NORBERT GEIER received his PhJ>. degree from the U. of Wisconsin at the January com­mencement. His major field of study was modem British and American literature. 
•4 7 Jack Miles 3218 Bcntley Lane South Bend, Ind. 
IN MEMORIAM: ED SANDERS 
The death Feb. 3 of DR. EDWARD J. SANDERS has been reported to-us through the Alumni Office, bringing to 18 the number of our classmates who have journeyed prematurely to meet their Maker. 
In your name we enrolled Ed in the Association of the Providential Proposal at the Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House on the campus, and we trust you will add your personal prayers to these ever­lasting remembrances for the repose of his soul. 
Apprised of this spiritual intercession, Ed's widow, Mary Jane, has written; "Thank you for your nice letter. Ed went to the hospital May 4 for acute lumbar pain in his back. They did surgery the 1st of July and found tumor cells in his spine and he never got better. 
"We have three lovely children—Marguerite, 3 years; Mary, 2 years; and Edward Joseph, 10 
made the appointment, said Tom will or­ganize and direct the program of the new Center for Continuing Education, to be erected in about a year at the entrance to the campus, across Notre Dame Avenue from the Morris Inn. The new facilities will be underwritten by a grant of $1,543,000 from the W. K. Kellogg Foundation of Battle Creek, Mich. 
-A native of Watertown, N.Y., and a mem­ber of the faculty since 1947, Tom has been ser\'ing as Jesse Jones professor of business administration and head of the department of business organization and management. .'\fter graduation as a business administra­tion major at ND, he went on to obtain his master's degree from the University of Ver­mont and a doctorate from Syracuse. 
The Center under Tom's direction. Father Hesburgh said, "will add an im­portant new dimension to the University's total educational work." The building is be­ing planned to accommodate a wide range of meetings of various sizes, conferences of learned societies and academic ftmctions of every sort. The Center is expected to de­velop a..continuing.education piogiamfor the various potentials, needs and desires of Notre Dame's 35,000 alumni as well as community and professional groups. 
Tom has conducted extensive industrial development research, particularly in the Southern states, and has been serving as a consultant to the Office of Planning and Research in the Area Redevelopment Ad­ministration of the Department of Com­merce. He is in great demand as a speaker at industrial development meetings across the nation. 
Married to the former Barbara Barrett ci South Bend, Tom is the father of four children. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 SI 
months. Ed talked a lot about Notre Dame and planned to have his son go therc^ £d was truly a wonderful patient, for he never once complained about the cross." 
JAI ALAI C.\SUALT^' 
CHICK \fAGG10Ll is recovering, slouly but 
surely, from a severe brain injur>' sustained Feb, 15 
during a jai alai game in Acapuico, Mexico. The 
erstwhile restaurateur, now operator of an auto­
mobile rustproofing shop in his native Mishawaka, 
was struck on the side of the head by the hard, fast­
travclling pclota. 
The force of the blow shattered Chick's skuIL 
drove bone into his brain, and caused an abscess. 
Transferred to Dallas, he underwent surgcr>- to 
remove bone chips and blood from the area. Once 
the story was reported nationwide. Chick saj-s, he 
received phone calls at the hospital from such old 
friends and teammates as BOB KELLY, JOE 
SCHMIDT of the Detroit Lions, and all-time pro 
lineman ART DONOVAN. 
His xTsion and speech are still somc^vhat affected, 
so say a prayer he'll have them restored as near 
perfection as God wills. 
LETTERS 
A few notes are at hand. One is from JIM 
SHEA in Nanuct, N.Y., who encloses a contribution 
to the class fund and reveals his four-year-old son 
James Joseph has been joined—as of Dec 6, 1963 
—by a sister, Mary Kathcrinc. 
And here are a few kev lines excerpted from a 
letter dated Feb. 16 by BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, 
CSC: ". . . All my construction work is at a 
slandsliJJ- During the past few weeks I have done 
nothing but travel about from village to village and 
mission to mission, helping the people as much as 
possible. 
*'School is supposed to open on Wednesday next. 
It wiU be intcrcstlns to see lioiv many students sliow 
up. Not many left, I am afraid. . . • During these 
hard times, say some special prayers for all of us 
over here. . .*' 
GLE.\XINGS 
FoHowing up the brief bulletin oi the last issue, 
wc can add a bit of detail to the S.\M ADELO 
storv': A news release from the Phillips Petroleum 
Co. in Bartlesville, Okla., identifies the nomadic 
Abdallah as a staff attorney in its legal department 
assigned to Iiandic matters principally in connection 
with the firm's overseas operations. 
Although, as far as I know, tlie University never got around to honoring the late General of the Army Douglas A. MacArthur, wc recall our com­mencement speaker was the great soldier-statesman's air commander, GEN. GEORGE C. KENNY. Tlie latter appeared on Loivcll Thomas's radio news program at the time of his old superiors death to appraise him as indeed "one of the all time greats" militarily, intellectually, and patriotically. Come to think of it, I believe the senior class cliose him for its annual patriotism award in 1963, but since he was unable to attend campus exercises he was passed over in favor of someone else. 
Most recent cross-countr>' movers among us is PAT SMH), who has transferred residence from Denver, Colo., to Berkeley Heights, N.J. .And BOB SHADE, who has been with Great Lakes Distribut­ing 17 years, has been returned to South Bend from Fort W3>*nc; he and his wife are parents of a son, 13, and a daughter, 17. 
Our athletic department is taking on a mid-'40's complexion with the import of JOHN RAY from John Carroll as defensive line coacli; JOE YONTO from Notre Dame High Scliool in N'iles, 111., as John's assistant; and tlie scrappy JOHNNY DEE from Denver to mastermind activities of our hard­wood forces. Surely wc all wish all of them, and the remainder of tJjc football siaif headed by AR;\ PARSEGHLAN, great success. 
INA'ITATION You arc cordially requested to contribute to your class column. RSVP. 
From the Alumni Office: 
In the November 30, 1963, issue of the Satur­day £\'ening Post tliere was an article entitled "He's Forever Chasing Rainbows." Tlic hero is BOB ERKINS, and the story is about his trout farm, a one-year assembly line from the egg un­til the trout arc cleaned and ready for quick freezing. He supplies 30% of the domestic market. 
WILLIAM BERK has been appointed v-p for product development of Lakeside Engineering Cor­poration in Chicago. JIM McGURK has been made mfg. assistant to the v-p of marketing and contracts for Budd Compan>''s electronic division. BERNARD GOTTA has been appointed general agent of the Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Go's new general agency In Chicago. SAM ADELO has been 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July^ 1964 
LEO J. BLATZ '47 Guided IViissal Says Oifs ^Vell in Africa 
Father Mike Earley, St. Mary's College chaplain, aroused our curiosity when he asked us to return a Father Stedman Missal inscribed "Leo Blatz, Breen-Phillips" which had passed through several hands since being pulled out of the Pacific during World \Var II. Found in North Africa, Leo re­called having donated it to a ser\'icc drive, but meanwhile he has been as well traveled as Father Stedman. 
Leo's career since graduation in chemical engineering has been entirely with Standard Oil (N.J.) and its affiliates. The first 11 years were spent in process research and de­velopment ranging through catalytic crack­ing, fuels and lubricants, treating, synthetic rubber and processing sequences for new 
added to the Barlesvillc headquarters legal staff of Phillips Petroleum Co. in Okla. 
FRANK O'BRIEN Jias been admitted as a part­ner of Arthur .Andersen & Co., Chicago public ac­counting firm, following his resignation as presi­dent of the Sceburg Corp. He will audit from the Cleveland ofllce. 
RZV. ARTHUR HAR\^EY CSC, director of the N D University Tlicatre celebrates his 10th anni­versary in that position with a production of the famous musical, **My Fair Lady," this spring. On June 20 the theatre will mark its lOth anmvcrsar>­observance with the first reunion of the University 
Tlieatre.  
IJl Q  George J.  Kccnan  
•" »  177 Rolling Hills Rd.  
Clifton,  N.J.  

It's that time again to get the notes together to keep cverx'one informed of what the illustrious members of the Class of '48 are doing. To tell the truth the notes arc few and far between and tltank goodness wc have a few friends who have sent along some info to keep tins column going. There has been a little shot of life shown in the activity and I just wbli tliat I would hear more from more of you. I never knew that I would have to be putting my BS degree to sucli magnitude. 
In tlic last issue wc wrote that JIM MELLO was at the Mansfield Training School in Mansfield, Conn.j and that many of his friends would like to know what he is doing. I had a nice letter from Jim and he lias some newsy details about himself. 
refineries built in Europe after the war. He holds several patents based on this work. During this period he served a one-yeal ' term as secretar>' to the Esse Manufacturing Technical Committee, a group concerned with the exchange of technical information among various refineries around the world. 
This led to a transfer to Esso Interna­tional (formerly Esso Export) the inter­national trading company for the Jersey interests. During the ensuing ten years Leo has become concerned with international sales and supply activities, including sales of tanker-load quantities of crude oil fo|| nonassociated refineries and fuels for use" such as power plant or local reseller com­panies. This latter activity included a three-year stint in London. After his return to New York, two years were spent in sales to the international shipping companies of both fuels and lubricants. At the time of transfer in September, 1963, to Lib>'a his position was manager of coordination of Jersey's world-wide marine sales. 
Leo's transfer to Libya as a director of the two principal Jersey affiliates in thajj countr>' exposes him to two new and inter­esting facets — life in an Arab country' and work in a company whose main inter­est is the production of crude oil. At the moment the Jersey interests are producing over 450,000 barrels of crude oil every day in Libya with a value in excess of a million dollars per day. 
A native Indianapolitan, Leo is married to his senior prom date, the former Marth­ann Schaub, also from Indianapolis. The Blatzes have a daughter, Patti. in her sopho­more year of nursing at Catholic Universi­ty in Washington, D.C., and a son, John^. a sophomore at Notre Dame Internationa" School in Rome. Their youngest child, Christopher, bom in England, is with them in Tripoli. 
As far as outside interests are concerned, Leo says he's still a golfing "hacker," likes to play bridge and is a member of a com­mittee to build an English-speaking parish in Libya. 

This is what he lias to say: "I head the physical education department and also the recreation pro^ . Sratn ior the entire institution. Tliere arc ap™ proximately 2,000 boys and girls here who arc mentally retarded. At the institution wc are con­cerned with their permanent care, training and rehabilitation. It's the old refrain from the ND Victory Marcli *uhat tliough Ilie odds be great or small, mental retardation will win over all,* that helps keep the spirit up in this field where our kids at Mansfield 'ain't got it so good.' " I'm sure that Jim's many friends recognize the very chal­len^ng job that Jim has, and they arc sure that he can be ver>- proud of the part he is playing in helping all these children to overcome their handi­caps. Wc wish you the best of luck, Jim, and we know that you must have a great feeling of ac­complishment as you sec your efforts making life^ a little bit better for those under your care. ^ ' 
At the U. of Rhode Island the head football coacli happens to be J.\CK ZILLY, and he just com­pleted his first year in the ne%v job- We won't go into the record because we know Jack is "building" and it takes time. If it takes time at ND it certainly can take time elsewhere. One of the members of tlic team is JIM MELLO JR., who is a sophomore halfback and did the punting. Jim's father was quite a fullback for ND when wc had some great teams in '42, '43 and '46, and although that was 20 years ago the old fullback says he can beat the young halfback in a wind sprint—provided it is short. Maybe 10 or 15 ^-ards, we presume. 
Had a nice letter from STEVE VALETICH, who is "a ci^^Iian employee of the Department of the Army. After having had a tour of duty in Washing­
ton he has been reassigned to Munich, Germany. Before going there he was living in Vienna (Va). ^tcvtt is in Munich with his wife Xatalie and their Vre e children. For the members of the Class of 
'48 who didn't get to sec Germany, Steve says it is most enjoyable in the area where he is living. Anyone wanting to get firsthand tourist informa­tion can reach Steve at USA Tech. Eval. Detach., APO 407, New York, N.Y. 
Many of the members of the Class of '48 will remember J. D. USINA, who started back in '42 and via the ROTC graduated in the Class of '43. In the year-end issue of the ALUMXUS we were pleased to see that Commander Usina has got himself a nice boat known as the USS Mitschcr, of which he is the commanding officer. "JD " is a real nice guy and we know that the Afilschcr under 
^ 5 command will always be "shipshape." I read 
" the New York Times recently where RICHARD **DICK*' DIGAN was appointed executive vice­prcsidcnt of John T. Clark &. Son of Boston and Baltimore, a stevedoring and terminal operating company. Dick will be responsible for all business emanating from the New York area. 
Our old friend TOM HERBERT, better known as '*Honcst Tom," wrote a vcr>' interesting letter in his own inimitable style. Reading Tom's letters, onc_ never knows whether to laugh or cr>-. Tom begins by saying that he wants the Class of *48 to forgive him for not sending his customar\­Christmas card to all. TIic year 1963 was a big year for Tom, his family, his relatives, etc., so Tom couldn't get around to sending over 1,300 cards 
^ i he usually docs. Some of the big events that took place were his opening of a new furniture store in Auburn, X.Y., with his brother J.\CK HERBERT '54; moving into a bigger home because of the arrival of the heir, little Tom, who is Number One Son and who has three sisters; plus Tom's having to go to New York for the Syracuse debacle. So all tiicse events kept Torn from attend­ing the Reunion and sending Christmas cards. We forgive you, Tom, because we know that besides being an actor you arc also a producer. Tom says he would like to hear from DAN HESTER, and when you write, Dan, please put your return address on the letter! 
AL LaMERE writes that the information I had about him in the last issue was about four years old. That goes to show you the labor a class sec­retary- undergoes tr>-ing to scratch up data about 
^scople to get a few words in print. Al tells us 
Vnat after leaving ND he went to Northwestern and got his master's in business administration, taught at St. Joseph's College for two years and then went to work. .AI is an area sales super\-isor for the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. He lives at 7827 Hohman, Munstcr, Indiana, where he is presently the Democratic city chairman. 
The letter from Al LaMere adds a PS: **When you take a look at the record of the class of '48, it is really an exceptional group, ^(akes one proud to be a part of it." How timely for a comment like this after reading the back cover of the last issue of the ALUMNUS where OLUE HUNTER, our Alumni /\ssn. president, calls our attention to the activities on campus of the new breed of Notre Dame Man, They don't "stay behind the team" 
^n d when the basketball team fell behind the stu­
dent body chanted "Jordan must go." One can imagine what would have happened if such a situa­tion would have occurred during the era of 1946­1948 when most of our class was back at ND after having been away for a while. While many of us probably wouldn't have been able to keep up with the academic requirements of today if they were in cfTect at the time wc were students, we still turned out to be Notre Dame men who can be proud of the fact that we made morning checks, had the lights out early, were loyal to our teams and coaclics and then went on to bigger and better things. The student today is basking in luxury", splendor and convenience. We hope he can bear up under this pressure and come out as well as we 
^i d who didn't have it so good. Perhaps as alumni, 
9 ^ ^vc meet and talk to prospective students, we can give them the facts about what it takes, especially since some of these ingredients are not found in the lab, library and textbook. Regarding our reunion activities, JERRY HEK­KER has come up with a suggestion to help make a better weekend out of the festivities. Wc arc going to pass this on to BILL BONWICH, our permanent reunion clialrman, to sec if he can in­corporate it in the schedule. RUSS FARRELL also had some grandiose ideas for the next reunion, and with more than four years to go to develop them wc are sure they will be "bigger than all of us" by 1968. I had a nice Christmas card from our "Rags to Riches" man in Philadelphia, BART JOHNSON. The Johnson family is quite a sizeable one, and 
DONALD K. BOOTH '49 East Man with Kodak, No Snap for Flash 

Effective the first of this year was the appointment of Donald K. Booth as as­sistant general auditor of the vast Eastman Kodak Company and its subsidiar>' corpora­tions — a job that could hardly be consid­ered a "snap." Don has been on the general auditor's staff since his employment by Kodak in 1957. During that time he has performed audits of several divisions, sub­sidiaries, and other units of the company. 
Don received his BSC degree majoring in accountanc)' with the Reunion Class of '49 and became a certified public accountant in 1952. He was engaged in public account­ing in Rochester before his employment by Kodak. 
He is chairman of the Rochester Diocesan Catholic High School Basketball Tourna­ment and of the Rochester area University of Notre Dame Foundation Committee. Don was president of the Notre Dame Club of Rochester in 1960-61 and its 1963 recipient of the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award for his service to club and commun­ity. He is a past officer of the Holy Name Society in St. John the Evangelist parish and a member of the New York State So­ciety of Certified Public -Accountants. 
A native of Rochester. Don was married in the home town shortly after graduation. He and his wife Ellie have four children: Gregor>' Allen, 13; Mary Ellen, 11; Karen .Ann, 8; and Paul Raymond, 2. 
Bart is the only guy I know who has a Cadillac airport limousine for a family automobile. By the way, any of you who still think Bart is the Class treasurer and continue to send him money—please stop. Send it to me as I need it. When I took this job I said I would forego the salary and would just want the $15,000 tvpense account. I have had the expenses but no reimbursement. There's nobody to approve my vouchers. ^Vs secretary I'd like to know who b the president of this Class? 
I . have a complaint. . . . (Attn. GEORGE SULLIVAN! Ed.) 
Well, this column is not going to be as long as the previous because I'm not getting enough info to make it any longer. This b your column, and I'm supposed to put the info together so everyone can know what b going oa. Without the informa­tion I have little to work with, and I cannot make it up all the time—there has to be some truth somewhere. So whatta ya say—can you get a few words off after you read thb? Just a note to say you like the column, you dislike it, what you are doing, who you are seeing, how you feel, how the family is, etc. I'll be looking to hear from you —how about it? 
From the Alumni Office: 
While JOHNNY DEE and wife Kathryn arc house-hunting in South Bend, they are borrowing the 5er\'ices of a sizable baby-sitter in Denver. Two of the Dec children are staying with the VINCE BORYL.-\'s, who live in the same neighborhood in Denver. 
In the reorganization of ^Vilton Tool &Ifg. Co. WILLIAM FERRICK has become senior v-p for new Wilton Corp. of three wholly owned com­panies. 
Good Luck to JOE YONTO as assbtant ND football offensive line coach. As soon as Joe and hb wife can find housing for them and their six cliildren they are moving to South Bend. For the last seven years, he has been head coach at Notre Dame High at Nilcs, III., and for a three-year period (1960 through 1962) hb teatns were Chicago Suburban Catholic League champions. 
A.'%RON SEAMSTER PhD '48 has recently been appointed director of NASA Education Programs. He will direct activities concerned with dissemina­tion of needed aerospace educational information to students through established educational chan­nels. He will be supported by a small professional staff. 
REV. JOHN L. REEDY CSC, editor of the Ave Maria magazine, spoke at a local Catholic grade school PTA meeting on the subject "Religion in the Schoob.'* Fr. Reedy said: "There will be greater liabon between public and parochial school adminbtrations, a trend which b even now being formulated." He said that although Catholic schoob across the country face grave problems because of financial costs and teacher shortages due to ex­ploding pupil population, they will not become axtlnct but of necessity wilt change drastically with the changing times. 
JOHNN*Y RAY, the new defensive line and line­backers coach at ND, was honored as the Ohio "college coach of the year" for hb work at John Carroll last year. 
The Alumni Office has received the latest an­nual issue of DICK O'CONNELL's Irish News. The family spent their ^'acatlon In the Black Hills. The newspaper Is two pages long and so it can't be reprinted here. Why don't you drop Dick a note and get on hb mailing Ibt and receive your copy the first of every year or thereabouts? 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1949 Subject: ISth AnniTCisary 
REUNION 
Weekend —June 12-13-14 I 964 

'49 ^°^ Walker 
Wayne, lU. 

From the Alumni Ofhce: 
BRUCE HARLAN, chief photographer at ND, spoke on "Photo Coverage of Intercollegiate Ath­letics" at the third annual three-day conference of the University Photographers Assn. at Har\-ard Brandcis and Boston Universities. 
.MARTIN ZERXICK, president of Electro Cer­amics Inc., Alpha, N.J., was elected to member­ship in the Young Presidents' Organization, an international group of young men (and five women) who have become presidents of sizeable companies before reaching the age of 40. YPO now has over 1750 members In more than 30 chapters In the US, four in Canada, one In Europe, one in Japan, and a number of members In Latin America. 
ED SCHLAFLY, former v-p of Potest "He & Lumber Co., has been elected president of the firm and its wholly owned subsidiar>*, Hobbs Western Co. 
BOB MONACELU has been appointed mgr. of marketing adminbtration for the central opera­tion of SyK'ania Electronic Systems, a dlvuion o£ Sylvania Electric Products Inc. Sylvania b a sub-
Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 2964 59 
sidiary of General Telephone & Electronics Corp. 
Prof. THOMAS BRODEN uas elected firet v-p 
of the South Bend Fair Emploj-mcnt Practices Com­
mission. Tom was also general chairman for a din­
ner meeting of the South Bend Deanery of the 
National Council of Catholic Men at which Bishop 
Purslc>- of Fort Wayne-South Bend discussed the 
Ecumenical Council. This was the first time the 
Bishop had addressed a group since his return 
from Rome. 
MIKE DeCICCO w-as named "fencing coach of 
the year" at DR. D. M. NIGRO's annual Roclcnc 
Award Dinner in Kansas City on Marcli 5. 
DICK S.MULLEN iias been elevated to the new 
position of senior professional service representative 
in recognition of his tvpcricncc in consistently per­
forming at a superior level. He had to be rated as 
superior for two consecutive years, before he could 
receive the promotion with Smith KHne & French 
Laboratories, Burlington, Vt. 
BOB CONNELLY, San ifaleo, Cah7., has been 
named San Francisco Man of the Year for 1963 
by the ^tn a Life Ins. Co. Bob has produced more 
than a million dollars of individual life instirance 
policies each year for the last three years. 
TERRY BRENNAN had a reunion with iiis 
former ND football pla>-cr PAUL HORNUNG 
at a sports program in Milivaukec in January-. 
DR. ED FLEMING has been named associate 
head of the structures and materials dcpt. in the 
Spacecraft Sciences Subdi\*ision at .•\crospacc Corp. 
in £1 Scgundo, Calif. He is still living in Redondn 
Beach, Calif. 
DICK BROSK was elected president of the 
Credit Grantors Club of South Bend. Dick is with 
Memorial Hospital in South Bend. 
PAUL GORDON was elected v-p of ITT General 
Controls Inc. and is responsible for all phases of 
personnel relations for the subsidiary' of Interna­
tional Telephone and Telegraph Corp. 
DON BOOTH has been appointed asst. general 
auditor of I^lman Kodak Co. in Rochester, N. Y. 
Don is chairman of the Rochester Diocese Catholic 
High Sdiool Basketball Tournament and of the 
Rocliester Area University of ND Foundation. 
DAVID SMITH has moved from Baltimore to 
Akron, Ohio, and has started work as senior engi­
neering specialist with ihc Goodyear Aerospace 
Corp., .\kron. His immediate supervisor is 
CHARLES M. KELLY '44. 
FRANK SULLIVAN was a guest lecturer at a one-week seminar at the Universitv* of Puerto Rico in Rio Piedra«. The seminar is held annually in Puerto Rico by the Dept. of Continuing Education of the U. of Illinois. Frank spoke on the need to co-ordinate all the fringe benefits offered employees and the \*alue of using the ser\ices of bank trust dcpts., insurance companies and consulting firms to assure maximum benefits are gained from each dollar spent. 
BOB BOGER has been named executive v-p of Juh] Advertising Agcnc\', Inc., Elkhart, Ind. 
'50 Richard F. Haho 
47 Emerson Rd. 
Glen Rock, N.J. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOHN ME.VDENHALL has been admitted as a partner of .-Vrthur Andersen 5: Co., Chicago public accounting firm. John is a tx\ partner in Cleveland. 
ROBERT THOMPSON, chief analytical engineer, has been appointed manager of engineering labora­tories for Dodge Mfg. Corp., Mishawaka, Ind. 
GU5 CIFELLI, De\-orcV tackle coach last season, is a man of letters. Gus is Jn Detroit working on his law studies at the U. of Detroit. A bout with hepatitis couldn't keep him out of the Old-Timers* game in ^fay. 
JOHN McGOLDRICK has been appointed divi­sional public relations manager of American Can Co, and will be responsible for public relations ser\iccs in the Canco Div. Canco, the largest of the company's operating divisions, has 29,000 em­ployees and 60 manufacturing plants in the US and Canada. He lives in Chatham, N.J., with his wife, Margaret and their six cliildren: Robert, Kcxin. Margaret, Mar>-, Christopher and Anne, 
REV. JACOB A. SMITH, CSC, who has preached missions, retreats and novenas throughout the US, will be asst. director of retreats at the Fatlma Retreat House at ND. Fr. Smith, among other duties, will have complete responsibility of the Big Retreat held cver>-isU at the Retreat House. 
ZANE TRINKLEV, manager of the South Bend Tribune's classified advertising dept., had his pic­ture in the paper in the classified section and in the magazine section he bad a lit'o-pagc story—all in one day. Hb story was about the classified ad to sell a Spucdcnhopfer that appeared in the Jan. 15 issue of the paper and the numerous items of-

JIAI LEYDON bad a busy spring as president of the ND Club of Philadelphia. With Vice-Pres. Quentin Sturm he made the annual presentation of rose-colored vestments to Msgr. Martin J. McDonald of Our Lady of Mercy Church on Laetare Sunday, and at right he congratulates ND Man of the Year Henry A. (Jack) Henry and Mrs. Henry on Universal Notre Dame Night as Arthur E. Casey, dinner chairman, looks on. 
fered in trade, such as folded tripolcs. Zane decided to keep his "Spucdcnhopfer acti^'ator, '63 model, equipped with lateral prodinstat and eneni'ated rood. Circumventing alignator on automatic re­tractor." 
PHILIP DELANEY was recently promoted from asst. v-p to v-p in the banking dept. at Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago. DICK CLEARY announced, as resident manager of South Bend office of Bache & Co., that they were having a four­weck course in fundamentals of investing. He'll show you how to spend your $$$. 
LANK SMITH was the star of a story carried in the Texas Catholic about the "summit meeting" of ''Stars & Coach" and carr>'ing a picture of Lank with Parseghian. 
LOUIS \\'YNNE has been elected asst. v-p and legal counsel for General Acceptance Corp., Allen­town, Pa. 
TAD PATTON MS '50 has Joined Humble Oil & Refining Co.'s Baytown research and development lab as a research specialist in the new pol\-mers research group. He was with M, D. Anderson Hospital nine years and with Spencer Chemical Co. a year before joining Humble. 
JOHN F. MAHER has joined the faculty of Jesuit High in Sacramento as a history-, P.E. and typing instructor. He not only teaclics about the Wars of the ancients, sometimes he fights them. 
HOUSTON — Strategy meeting of new Houston Club officers involved (from left) Treasurer Lcighton Yoimg '59, President Bob Dillon '48, Vice-President Chester Broussard '59, Secy. Bill Sharman '62. 
'K l Robert Klingenbcrger ^ • 3405 Thames Dr. Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
From the Alumni Officer 
FRED WALLNER, asst. Tulanc football coach, 
resigned to move to Hartford, Conn., where he will 
join a business enterprise and also coach the Hart­
ford Charter Oaks of the Atlantic Coast Professional 
Football League. 
JIM CARROLL does the public relations \vork 
for Carroll, Herrmann, Klopfcnstein & Associates. 
Herrmann is an artist and Klopfcnstein docs adver­
tising and marketing. Tliey work as a team or 
individually. Jim recently has been handling public 
relations for the Indiana lieutenant governor's bid 
for the governorship. ^h. 
AL ZEISZ has formed a real estate firm canes ' 
Smith-Zcisz Co. in Mishawaka, Ind. Al has been 
in real estate safes the last six years and last 
year led the brokerage division in sales volume 
at the firm where he worked. Tlic new firm has 
employed three salesmen. 
JOHN ALLWEIN, Springfield, Pa., has been ap­
pointed manager, cost accounting, in the financial 
div. of McNeil Laboratories Inc. 
JOHN KINSELLA has been promoted to Ac­
count supervisor at Leo Burnett Co., Inc., Chicago. 
GEORGE PATTON, Soutli Bend lawyer, was named "Democrat of the Year" by the Young Democrats of St. Joseph County. George is a township justice of the peace and is on the facul­ty of the South Bcnd-Mishawaka Campus of Indiana U. (BS 
JIM GHIGLIERI was elected prcs. of the Citi ^ zens National Bank of Toluca, 111. Jim has con­sistantly been an active member of the ND Club of Peoria, and lias contributed considerably to the basketball future at ND. In the past three years, Toluca (pop. 1000) High School has produced three All-State cagcrs; Jim has been primarily responsible for the matriculation of freshman guard standout John Bernardi and 6'-6" Tony Vignali, who wilJ begin studies this coming Sept. at ND. Jim is grand knight of the K. of C. and pres. of the Rotarj* Club. 
JIM LAUGHLIN, continuing with the FBI in Kansas City, is building a house for wife Joanne, son Jimmy and daughters Katliy and Su^y. 
TO.M SHEEHAN, is v-p of the ne^vIy buil ^ Shcehan Service Center, South Bend — the laleslV concept in automotive ser\-icc facilities and the only one of its kind in the stale of Indiana. 
JAKE JANOWSKI, Notre Dame magazine editor, is secy of the Catholic Forum in South Bend and he was co-chairman with BOB LEHXJAN *44 for sale of tickets for the South Bend Press Club's annual Gridiron Show, where they roast celebrities. 
LEN SCULTHORP LLB '51 is living in Mar­shall, Mich., and is commissioner of the state corporation and securities commission. 
EARL KAYLOR JR. MA '51 received his Ph.D, from Penn. State U. in Dec, and is now assoc. prof, of religion at Juniata College, Huntington, Pa. He is an ordained minister in the Church of the Brethren. 

60 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
•C 
2 Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. 


•
 WhreHng, W.Va. 


From tlie Alumni Office: 
JIM BAUER has been promoted to field sales mgr. at the Louisville plant of Inland Container Corp. 
JIM MUTSCHELLER of Beaver Falls, Pa., has resigned as ofTensivc end coach for the Baltimore Colts. 
JOHN ENGELS, asst. prof, of English and poet in residence at St. Michael's College, is putting the finishing touclies on a freshman text, an an­thology* of reading with exercises. He has re­ceived word that David McKay will publish Ex­
'crimcc and Imagination, the second book on Ihich he has collaborated with his father, NOR­tERT ENGELS '26. 
TOM FREITAS has been selected for career cm­pIo>inent in the Federal Scr\-icc. He now is a mechanical engineer with the Navy at the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard, Hawaii. 
TOM DIGAN's promotion to senior engineer 
in data commuitication systems at Kingston, N.Y­
was announced by IBM's Data Processing Div. He will be responsible for development and re­lease of the New York Stock Exchange System currently under systems test at Kingston. Tom. Jean and ihcir children — Thomas 9; Marj* 8: Jeanne 7; Christopher 5; Scan 3; Elizabeth 2 and Eileen 1 — live in Hyde Park, N.Y. 
f 
DICK MURPHY has been named depot mgr.. 
ord Div., Dallas Parts Depot. Dick formerly held the same position at the Dcs ^foincs Parts Depot. Dick and Martha — along with Timothy, 9; Kathleen, 7; Maureen, 5; and Christine, 2 — arc now living at 3001 Maple, Maple Terrace, Dallas. 
JOHNNY DEE LLB '52 started his new basket­ball coaching duties by speaking at the annual basketball banquet on March 17. Johnny and wife Katherinc arc looking for a house in South Bend for them and Melinda, 15; Dennis, 4; and John HI. 2. 
GLENN YATUNI, formerly from the East Coast, went west for success. He is controller for parts and ser\'ice operations for Philco Corp., a sub­sidiar>' of Ford Motor Co. In Los .-\ngeles. He is living in Wliiiticr, Calif, 
•R ^ David A. McElvain 
^ ^ 2328 Alexander Terrace Homcwood, III. 

From the .Mumni Office: 
CHARLES STIMMING has been appointed reve­nue accounting manager for Indiana Bell Telephone in Indianapolis. 
D.WE FOX of Clarendon Hills, III., was named second v-p of the Northern Trust Co., Chicago. 
Wc received a note from ED SMET telling us he has been transferred to Holland for three years. The new address for Ed, wife and four sons is c/o Fluor-Schuytvlat X.V., P.O. Box 634, Haarlem, Holland. 
A JOE HAGGIN, former faculty member at ND, ^las joined the staff of Industrial and Engineering Chemistry in Washington. D.C. as an asst. editor. 
REGIS PHILBIN on West Coast television haj established for himself a biglinie style while emerg­ing as San Diego's best known — and hlghe.t rated — TV perscnality. 
BILL FRENCH was a member of the special investigating unit which compiled and presented evidence on which James HolTa was convicted on a charge of tampering with a jury in a trial in Nashville, Tcnn., In 1962. Bill was once the target of a verbal outburst of HofTa himself. *'You'rc a dirty spy. I'll see you on the wron^ side of the bars," HofTa told Bill. We received the following letter from Mrs. 
^eonard James LeRose: "I would like to correct an 
ViTor in your recent issue of the ALUMNUS. Un­der the Class of 1953 you stated Lt. Leonard J. LcRose was with the Strategic Air Command in Mississippi. That should have been Lt. LEONARD JOSEPH LcROSE 1959. Mr. LEONARD JAMES LcROSE 1953 lives in Chicago, is married and has three sons. He is self-employed — LcRosc Coal, Oil & Construction business. Lt. LcRosc was his cousin. I would appreciate your correction, because of recent events, which I shall explain, we have re­ceived many letters from confused classmates of ours. (I'm of the '53 class of S.M.C.)" Lt. LeRose '59 was killed in an airplane crash in Mississippi on December 23. 
GERALD HAMMES, head of Romy Hammes Ford Agency in Mar>'crest, South Bend, has moved to new headquarters. The sprawling grounds can 
handle up to 400 new cars and trucks, and room 
for over 50 customers', cars. 
PANOS BARDIS MA '53 has received the fol­
lowing honors: reappointed editor and book re­
view editor, Social Sdence Journal; elected mem­
ber, board of directors, National Academy of 
Economics and Political Science; elected member, 
X.Y. Academy of Sciences; elected professional member. National Writers Club; appointed con­sultant. National Assn. on Standard Medical Vo­cabulary and selected for inclusion in American Men of Science and Leaders in American Sdence. 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1954 
Subject: 10th Anniversary REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-14 
1964 
Milton J. Beaudine 
•54 
11 Kimberlin Lane Belleville, III. 

Something unusual has happened. I've started an article without begging you all to write. Thanks to all of you who took the two minutes necessary* to fill in and return the class questionnaire, and thanks to GEORGE PFI.;\U.M for suggesting it. .•\s a matter of fact, there is enough njatcrial to reser\'e some for the lean months to follow so don't be upset if you've returned the questionnaire and don't get a mention—this time. 
Some questionnaire highlights! To date, 361 re­turns. 320 married, 29 bachelors (Come on, girls), and 12 religious. Of the 320 married '54ers we have added to the population explosion, and to the 
MICHAEL J. McGUIRL JR. '49 Social Welfare Pro & People's Choice 

When 700 people gathered in March at a testimonial dinner honoring Mike Mc-Guirl, commissioner of the Oneida County (N.Y.) Department of Social Welfare, it \vas only an echo of previous acclaim from the Utica press and public. In January Deino­crat McGuirl had been appointed by a Republican county executive and confirmed by a bipartisan board of supervisors for a job to which he had been elected three years before. 
Notre Dame family, the not so small number of 977 children or better than 3 children per family. Oh, yes, the winners of the children derby were— Ta-Da-'Ta-Da! (some sort of fanfare, at least) — MARSHALL R. DESMOND and wife Ann, witb eight children: Marianne, SVs; Sharon, 7J4; Dar-rah, 6-/3; Katy, 5i4; Mike, 4; "nm, 3; MoHy, 2; Kevin, 6 months. WOWI The Desinonds live at 2617 Parkwood Ave., Toledo, Ohio. I don't know how he found time, but Marshall received his LL.B from the U. of Toledo and is a partner in the law firm of Gallon, Desmond and Lackey. Good luck on the next eight. Tied for the championship were Judy and DON HICKS, Mayan Dude Ranch, Bandera, Tex. 78003. Their eight arc Shawna, 10; Randy, 8; Scotty, 7; Kelly Ann, 5; Timothy Don, 4; Tracey Lee, 3; Gregg, 2; Tcny John, 6 months. Congratulations! Runners-up with seven children were: The J. CASEYs, Mary and ED SHAUGH­NESSY, Joan and FRANK DE.\N, Rowena and RICH HOHNL\N, and Joan and BOB DUGAN. There were quite a few with six children apiece. Among them: Mary Ann and VICTOR RICH­MOND, Jane and RAY BUBICK, Teresa and DR. NICK KR.\LL, Shirley and DICK GER­BRACHT, Susan and DICK MILLER, Matilde and ROBERTO TEFEL, Rosemary and DAVE KEFF­LER, Ann and BRIAN JEN'NINGS, Pat and PAUL ROH.MAN, "Pruicy" and JOE D'ANTONI, Mary­ann and GEORGE HUBBARD, Margo and JOHN GROSSPIETSCH, Elane and JACK PITTAS, and Mary Ann and ED BRO^VN. Whew!! Even writ­ing it makes me tired. 
One last item on the questionnaires is that 61 of the 361 returns indicated an adv*anced degree of some sort. Our Class has a specialbt of some kind in almost every field I've ever heard of, some I'm sure destined to become quite famous. 
About the Reunion! A good Reunion takes effort. DICK PILGER, master arranger for our Reunion Football Parties, again carried the ball handling alt the local arrangements. Much thanks (this is getting to be old hat)! On the National Com-
A native of Utica, Mike majored in po­litical science at N D and after graduation worked for three years as a social case­worker for the Oneida County Welfare De­partment, beginning graduate work at Utica College. In 1955 he vtas awarded a graduate certificate from the Buffalo School of Social Work and in 1958 received a mas­ter's degree in social work from Syracuse University. Meanwhile he trained at Syra­cuse Catholic Charities under the direction of the late Rt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph Toomey, diocesan director and a nationally known authority in the field of social work admin­istration. Starting in casework, he sooit headed a program for disturbed children and in 1958 was appointed assistant super­
-. visor of Oneida County Catholic Charities by the diocesan director, Rt. Rev. Msgr. Daniel E. Lawlor. Heading the family di­vision, he specialized in marital coimseling and psychiatric cases. 
In 1960 Mike made a successful bid for election as county public welfare commis­' "sibner.. Under a county charter in 1963 the job became appointive, and as Mike's term cvpired the 25 Republicans on the Board of Supervisors were besieged by testimonials and newspaper editorials urging his ap­pointment over partisan considerations. He was appointed by County Executive Charles 
T. Lanigan with unanimous approval of the Board. 
Mike resides in Utica with his wife, the former Carol Ann Hackett of that city, and their four children, Sean Patrick, Michael III, Mary Clare and Ann Bendey. Besides the Mohawk Valley ND Club he is active in a baker's dozen of religious, civic, pro­fessional, political, charitable and fraternal organizations. Commended for welfare ef­forts by area, state and national officials, he has been accepted as a member of the Academy of Certified Social Workers. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 61 
DAN HARDIN '53 hosted one of the many "family tables" at the Chicago Club's Communion Breakfast at the Biackstonc HaWng coffee after turkey brunch are (I.-r.) Jim Martin '49, Pat Scally, Steve Scalley, Bobby Wolf, Dan, Mrs. Robert ^\'oIf (Dan's sister), Mike DenWr (a cousin) and Robert Wolf '44. The children are nephcHS. 
mhice were ED MADIGAX, BOB WRIGHT, 
JOE I.MBRIACO, BOB PODEX, JACK NASHERT, 
BOB CHICKEY, JOHN* McGIXX and BILL 
KEARY. To all these, and the many other letter 
wrlicrs and phone callers wc all extend our sincere 
thanks. (Hie!) 
From the athletic uorld: CAPT. DOX PENZA 
is married to Joanne M. Braun, resides at 731 Elm 
St., Wisconsin Rapids, Wis., has three boys and a 
girl, and is teaching and coacliing at Assumption 
High. Thcrcse and BOB RIGALI, three boys and 
two girls, reside at 3W S. Ridgcland, Oak Park, 
111., where Bob is plant manager of Dcpralo Studios. 
Marie and NEIL WORDE.V, AVoxall, Pa., have 
two girls (how about a fullback, NcJl?) and KcJl is 
a representative for the Standard Lime and Cement 
Co. DICK "ROSY" ROSE.VrHAL, as you prob­
ably all knovv, is president of the St. Joseph Bank 
and Trust Co. in South Bend. Dick and spouse (the 
former Mar>'lyn Blair) have three girls and t^vo 
boys. Margaret and JOHN L.\TTNER, two bo>-s, 
two girls, arc sclh'ng steaks in Chicago, 109 W. 
Madison St. '\''all come! 
FRED BELLISSIMO, 6 Carson Ave., X. Wilmlns­ton, Mass., is coaching and icacliing at Wilmington High. Fred's team has won 23 in a row and ivas Class "C " champ of Massacliusctts in 1962. Fred is married and has one girl. GORDEN NEIL BERGQUIST, known as "Sam Spade" in Omaha, 

KANSAS CITY — Fr. Hcsburgh and ND Man of the Year Michael J* Greene '49 survey the throng at the K.C. Universal Notre Dame Night banquet in April. (Photo courtesy of the K.C. Star.) 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July^ 1964 
Neb. is a cop (part-time) when he's off duty as asst. professor of English at Creighloji U. (RoalJy, X'eil is a special deputy and plainclothes investigator part-time, not just a cop.) But a cop is a cop is a cop. Stay out of Nebraska, FROLICHER, ADAMS and CfVLDER, unless vou write Xcil first—5651 Emilc, Omaha. DICK HO-XINCFORD (Capt., USAF) is married with three bo>-s and a girl, living at 2033 Beltibart, Fort Worth, Tex. Prior to this duty Dick spent a year in Vietnam. 
JERRY GODWIN and wife Kalhrvn live in Wyoming, Pa., where Jerry is an asst. professor. College of Misencordia, Dallas, Pa., and head of the speech and drama depl. Jcrr>* missed the five-year reunion while working in summer stock but is plan­ning on making the lO-year one. Jerry and Kathryn have two giris and a boy. DR. L^\RRY ELLIS is opening practice in hematolog>' and internal medicine this July in Pittsburgh, Pa., would like to hear from JOHN DOHERT\', is married (two girls, one boy) to the former Jacqueline Coogan. FRANK WALTER (Capt., USA) and Rcgina have five kids, three girls and two boys. Frank earned his MA from N^TJ in '60 and is hoping to make major soon. (Would like to hear from JACK XASHERT and BOB .MEISTER—H-ritc 1632-B York Rd., Ft. Belvoir, Va.) VALENTINE CHUN, 1045 Gulick Ave., Honolulu, Hau-aii 96819, is an economist with the U. of Hawaii's Economic Rc­scarcli Center. Married the former Mae Low Wing, and they have one cliild, a girl, Kristin Tc-erh. JOE DiPIXTO is with a small company in Wilming­ton, Del., DuPont somcthing-or-other. He and his wife Patricia have three girls and a boy. Joe is a sales-5er\-icc technologist and would like to hear from BUD GRUGER, BOB .\fcGEE and the '54 Ch.E's. 

Had a note from ART ILVESCHE indicating he'll make the reunion even though he may be forced to drink a little, play golf, etc. Says he's gained 30 lbs. and lost most his hair, 50 hopes he's recognized. Tsk, Tsk! ED LEWIS is coming, I understand, only to sec how fat and ugly touclidoivn TOM McHUGH has got In the last 10 years. (Pretty fat, Ed, and ugly?—Wow!) Had a birth announce­ment from Mrs. and CAPT. FRx\XK WISNESKI proclaiming loud and clear that they were blessed with Michael Daniel on Feb. 13, '&4. Congrats, Frank, "Hook's" olc buddy. Wonder what con­nections Volanda and TOM HOLLIGER have. They were married bv and had both their girls baptized by Bishop FULTOX J. SHEEN in St. Patrick's, NYC. Tom is In sales with Union Car­bide Chemicals Co. Anvone need their teeth straightened? Sec DR. J. A. "BUZ" HELFRICH, 122 Beaumont Rd., Devon, Pa. 
GEORGE McDONOUGH, 1475 E. 48th St., Brookb-n, X.V. 11234 (where else Is there?), has his MA and expects his Ph.D in English this June. Carolyn (poor girl) nmrncd GEORGE BLACK and they have one girl. George, you guessed it, teaches English at Brooklyn Tech H.S. and also 
teaches English to the foreign-bom in the evening: 
at Brooklyn College. George would like to hcai 
from GEORGE MORESCQ, BOB PODEN arf" 
"FAT" TOXf McHUGH. JIM BRO\VNE (with 5i 
"E") and Bcmice have three boys and reside ai 
S414 Cambridge Circle, Allcntown, Pa., where Jin 
is asst. vicc-prcs. with the General Acceptance Corp. 
Jim's been pretty busy getting bis LL.B from Ford­
ham, his MBA from N.Y.U. and his X.Y. state 
CPA. Jim and NEALE THOMPSON keep in touch 
fairly well, but Xealc would like to hear from 
MARK TRENfBLAY, JACK McANIFF and MIKE 
CALLINDRO as uell. Xealc Is married to the 
former Xano* Duggan, and thev have two girls and 
live at 1628 Carman PL, Baldwin, L.I., N.Y. JOHN 
JARXOT and Eleonore have two boys and a girl. 
John is president of E. J. Burke Security S>-stcms 
Inc., and does \-arious kinds of security, investit^ 
live and protective work for industr\- (do you car!L 
a gat? Maybe you could use Xcil Bcrgqulst as your 
Nebraska agent). The Jarnots arc expecting their 
fourth cliild in August. PHIL HIGGLVS MD, 
Capt. US.\F, and Kathleen have four clilldren and 
arc planning to end the air force bit this summer. 
Phil will then specialize In obstetrics and g>-nccolog\­
in St. Louts. And lastly, a little about me. O.K.? 
I'm leaving the .\. E. Stalcy Mfg. Co. and Decatur, 
111., to take a position with the Monsanto Chemical 
Co. at the Kmmmrlch Plant In E. St. Louis. 
Many of you have been kind enough to offer help 
for the Reunion. Tlianks. You can help now. In 
order to capture the "spirit" of the reunion and 
all the humor, etc., that goes with it, you can help 
by writing me your impressions, and relating sonV 
of tlic "stories" from Inside the reunion. You know: 
Like "who was found asleep in the phone booth 
upside down," and so on. 
Don't forget the Reunion Football Party this fall! 
From the Alunml Ofiice: 
Tltc following is a list of the committee the Class 
Secretary- has asked to help him drum up a large 
turnout this June: ED MADIGAN, Oakland, Cal.; 
BOB WRIGHT, Cincinnati, Ohio; BOB CHICKEY, 
St. Louis, Mo.; JOHN McGIXX, Pompano, Fla.; 
BILL KEARY, Baltimore. Md.; WALT X.ASHERT, 
Oklahoma City, Okla.; BOB PODEX, Chicago, lU.; 
BILL GUILFOILE, Bogata, X.J. and of course 
DICK PILGER, local chairman. 
BILL KE.\RY has been promoted to field claim 
representative in the Glen Burnie, Md., otllce of 
the Slate Farm ^(utual .-Xuto Ins. Co. He Is liyav 
ing in Baltimore. ^ 
FR. CHARLES BARRETT CSC for the past 
five years has been instructor in Frcncli and reli­
gion at Xotrc Dame High School for Boys in 

Xlles, III. He is also regional vocational director 
of the Western Province of the Holv Cross Fathers. 
DR. DICK STEVENS, formerly with U. College 

of Pius XH, Basutoland, Africa, has been appointed 
director of llic Lincoln U. (Pa.) African Center. 

Dick received his MA and PhD from George­
town U. 
Pick up a South Bend Tribtme and there Is a 

good diancc you will find DICK ROSEN'THAL's 
name someivhere in the Issue. Dick was MC for 
the ND basketball banquet, \^'as named 1964 chair­
man of Brotherhood Week, named "Outstanding 
Young Man of the Year" by the South Bend Junlc ^ 
Chamber of Commerce, appointed general chair­
man of the fall United Fund Crusade of Hope for 
WILLUM T. DAVITT L'53 receives the Bcnemercnti Medal from Most Rev. Mark 
K. Carroll, Bishop of Wichita, conferred last year by Pope John XXIII for Bill's ''distinguished personal service to the Church." Lawyer Davitt is faithful ad­miral of Columbia General Assembly 4th Degree Knights of Columbus and secretary of the ND Club of Wichita, Kan. 
this area, was the St. Joe Valley ND Club Man of the Year and is still believed to be the youngest 
«
fc£ident of a major United States bank. Last but ot least, he was a special guest of the South Bend Press Club*s 15th annual Gridiron Show and was well roasted by the press. 
A letter from VAL CHUN brings us the fol­lowing news: "Wc\e been back in the Islands now for about a year. Prior to that, Mac and I were in Seattle at the U. of Washington at the Far Eastern and Russian Institute where 1 was doing work in Chinese Studies and in the Chinese lan­guage. We were married in June, 1962 — our daughter Kristin Tc-crh was born December 6, 1963, a really wonderful Christmas present and tax deduction to boot! 
"I'm with the U. of Hawaii's Economic Center ^ . . and am presently involved with the joint ^'-'dcraUStatc-City sponsored Oahu Transportation 
Study — just the economic aspect of it. The regional analysis aspect is not unlike (conceptual­ly at least) the work involved in the development of underdeveloped countries and this is very in­teresting. I do miss, ho\%'cver, the satisfaction that Is found in teaching." 
In the March 24 issue of Look there is an article "The Making of a Surgeon" in which DR. MIKE LEVIS stars. Mike is asst. surgeon at Mayo Ch'nic in Rochester. He has enlisted as an Air Force surgeon for two years. 
•M Paul Fullmer 

7344 N, Ridge Blvd. W Chicago, III. 
The big, screaming news of the hour must come first—JOHN WEITHERS has been named one of Chicago's most eligible (and I should add, richest!) bachelors. Tlie girls have cliased John so hard during leap year that he changed his address quite often and I'm sure has resorted to an unlisted phone by now. He has paid the price of success, tho. His always slim supply of hair has dwindled even further, and the last time I saw John he was popping pills into his mouth for a pesky ulcer. Inctdcntally, John now is boili a vice-president and secretary of the Midi%est Stock Exchange, 
The letter of the cycle goes to MIKE DUCEY, who lived in Farley before heading for the Jesuits. He is at St. Mar\-'s College, Kurscoiig, Darjceh'ng, 
^ndia. The school is located in the h'ttic piece of 
V^idi^ tucked in between Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan (that's for you geography nuts). After leaving ND, Mike spent four years at Milford, Ohio, three at West Baden, Ind., one summer in Chicago, and then to India. Mike is finishing his second year of theology* now and is scheduled for ordination in March of '65. Mike appreciates occasional letters from JIM GRIFFIN, JERRY PR.\SSAS, and JERRY BR^VNSFIELD, but would like to hear from others. He ends his newsy letter with this frank sentence: **I don't mind at all if you and many others pray for us." 
Don't forget the Class cocktail party after the Purdue game, Oct. 3! 
«
Due to the weird schedules and early deadlines, I still have a stack of Christmas cards that I want • acknowledge. The biggest came from FRANK URKE, who moved wife Ann and family into a new }wme at 546 Laurel Road, Ridgewood, N.J., last year. Certainly one of the nicest came from my old journalism buddy, JOE CONNOLLY, who now lives at 1449 Knuth, Euclid, Ohio. Joe and Susan have a little boy, Tim. 
Hadn't heard from cx-SchoIastic editor L.-\RRY BREHL in some time, but then in the course of a month received a card and a call as he passed through the Windy City on the way back to Pitts­burgh (150 W. Brentridge Ave.). Larr>- and Dot welcomed a daughter, ifarc>*, on Dec. 4. Their hoy, Dave, is 5. Larry handles employee communica­tions and community relations for Wcstinghousc's Astronuclear I^borator>*. Larrj' reports that 
^RAN K FLORLVN and BOB MOORE abo are on 
9he Westinghouse payroll. Another of our journal­ism classmates, JI^[ SIEGER, is a producer at KDKA in Pittsburgh. 
Another guy who registered twice since the last column is JOE D.VLEY. Received a nice Christmas card from Joe and Edwina (28 Idlewild Lane, Matawan, N.J.), and then an announcement of their fourth child, Bernard. 
BILL McI^MN penned a note on his Christmas card and was too modest to note that he was elected district attorney, cliief crime fighter, Ohio's answer to Pcrr>- Mason or sometliing. Bill adds: "It seems that all my affluent Chicago friends have become members of the jet set." (He can't mean me. I alirays go by jet and come home steerage class.) 
DON H.\NISCH {5765 E. 30th St., Tulsa) says 
JIM McHUGH '54 of Chester, Pa., (right) IS congratulated by Charles A. Conlcy *33 of HavertoxMi and J. £. Kinney, e.xaltcd ruler of Del Mont Lodge Elks, Ardmore, as recipient of the Americanization Award. Jim is on the athletic and admissions com­mittees of the Philadelphia ND Club, au­thor of the Chester Housing Code and solicitor for Chester's Dept. of Safety. (BuiTalo Evening News Photo.) 
that he has switched from Undenvood to Pitney Bowes. He finally heard from DICK a\LL.\H.-\N, whom he hadn't heard from since graduation. Ac­cording to Don, HUGH SCHAEFER is back in Tulsa, working for Uncle Sam. 
Another Christmas card vvriter was AL COWLES (who has a good ghostwriter named Betty). Al. now the Big White Hunter, is a little concerned because his children thought he had killed Santa's reindeer when he came home with the big prize. Their address is 7&41 Willey Rd., Gerniantown, Tenit. 
RtVY KENNEDY, who is keeping Time Maga­zine in business around Boston, now has three toddlers at home (7 Talbot Rd., Hingham, Mass.). 
JIM GIBBONS is with Equitable Life of New York in Oklahoma City (355 Orlando Rd.)! Jiiu, who covers the entire state as group rep, has two children. 
Received a card from the former author of this column, TOM O'MALLEY, who is the proud papa of a little girl. Tom and Jackie live at 6213 E. 109, Kansas City. .Mo. 
JOHN BENDEL (you can't call him *-BaIdy" after looking around at the rest of you guys!) also checked in via the Christmas card route. John has 
BALTIMORE — Principals in Maryland's Universal Notre Dame Night festivity in­cluded (I.-r.) President Bill Kcary '54, Coach Don Shula of the Baltimore Colts and Chairman Jim Murray '42. 
four now and has had to move to larger quarters (8129 Richmond Ct., Wauwatosa 13, Wise.). John covers the state as a sales engineer for General Time Corp. 
JIM CANTRELL is right up there in the stork sweepstakes with five, and the last was a boy! Jim is with General Elcctric's chemical materials depart­ment. Jim and Barbara live at 20 Schermerhord Park, Lenox, )fass. 
JERRY HUGHES, who is one of the best cor­respondents even though he bounces around the world with the Air Force, managed to register Christmas greetings from stateside (71 Monterey Dr., Daly City, Cah'f.) this year. Another card from sunny (along with mud and fire) California came from old buddy NED RYAN. Ned and Ellen take care of baby, Kathleen, at 1323 .Mameda Ave., Glendale. 
The man who knows everything about American historv' (at least the activities of the Germans on Chicago's Addison Street 1860-1861!) JIM BERG. QUIST, took a flying trip home to my old stamping grounds of Council Bluffs, la., for the holidays. He is teaching at Villanova but comes through here often to check on those Germans. 
Let's take a quick look at the Chicago cards. DICK BURKE took the plunge into the home market and now owns a mansion in River Forest (922 William), practically next door to Tony Ac­cardo. Another Chicagoan with a new home is DICK BEE.NL\N (S46 Keystone, River Forest). 
Both JI.M GRIFFIN and JERRY BRANSFIELD finished the Christmas cards, missed the income tax deadline, and then welcomed additions to the family, Jim a boy and Jerry a girl. TOM IGLESKI and his wife, .\rline, took baby Mark into new diggings at 10604 Walden, Chicago. 
This was the first Christmas in snowy Chicago for GEORGE SHELTON and his Carol (1433 Forest Ave., Wilmctte, 111.). .Mso enjoyed cards from MIKE WARD and FR^VNK LOLLI, who spend most of their lime figuring out who will be our next governor. 
St. Louis has two '55crs on the tax rolls of late. BILL CANNING (27 Gandy Dr.) and PAUL MERZ (5839 De GiverviIIe). Two fellows moved west to friendly Indiana. KERRY D.\LTON (1305 Riley Rd., .Muncie) and BOB FARNBAUGH (4750 Holton Ave., Ft. \Va>-ne) now are Hoosiers. JOHN .MiVNIX, however, moved out to 1917 Red Leaf Dr., Louisville. Just about the time John was moving in, JERRY ROE left Louisville for Warrensville Heights, Ohio (19307 Wickficid Ave.). BILL RE.ALE, the world's gayest bachelor, throws his wild parties in a new apartment (18900 Detroit, Cleveland). FRxVNK ORLANDO crossed the Ohio border to 59 Mill St., Pittston, Pa. 
See you at the Class cocktail party Oct. 3. 
A lot of action in and out of the New York-New Jersey area. Smooth JOHN TR.\MONTINE de­serted our fair state for Yonkers, N.Y. (2 Cowdry St.). DICK F.ARRELL said soodhy to the deep South and moved from Atlanta to 4 Hamilton Ave., .Marlboro Toivnship, N.J. ELLIOT LESE now gets his mail at 2951 Ewell Ave., Wantagh, N.Y. ED JOST now is teaching at Canisius in Buffalo. Dapper JI.M ^V'.ALSH is up with Rocky (well, he's there sometimes!) in Albany (7-.\ Weiss Rd.). FRxVNK MARTEL gave up that soft country HWng in Virginia for Canton, N.Y. (86 Miner St.). Another journalism genius, CARROLL DO^\*DEN, packed up fiis t>'pewritcr in Louisi'iile and plunked it do\%*n again in Westwood, N.J. (3 Sutton Place). JI.M MONGELLO (for some odd reason) left Miami Beach for Brooklyn (154 Hicks St.). On the other hand, DAVE KILKE^VRY got the message and moved from Brigantinc, X.J., to Daytona Beach, Fla. (3716 Cardinal Blvd.). 
On the ser\ice front, BILL W.ALSH has this address, USS Reeves, DIG 24, PSNS, Bremerton, Wash.; FRANK WHITE, Main Barracks, US Naval Base, Brooklyn. 
BILL Y.ARIO transferred his base of operations from Chicago to Cincinnati (2493 Mercury). VERN WOLFF now gets his tax refunds at Orange, Tex. (Maxwell Drive No. 2308); JIM TWOHY at Car­michael, Calif. (4925 Marconi Drive); JOHN RICKLING at Cocoa Beach, Fla. (119 W. Alachua Lane); ART JOHNSON at DLxon, 111. (118 E. Everett); ED STENGER at Huntington Woods, .Mich. (8822 Huntington Rd.); JOHN HOSLNSKI at Tallahassee, Fla. (1232 Carolina Ct.); BILL WAHL at Sterling, III. (1301 Locust St.); and JOHN PINTER at Evanston, III. (2432 Noyes). I hope John doesn't tell those Northwestern fans he went to ND, especially during' the football season. Speaking of football, don't miss the class cocktail part>* in the Morris Inn after the home opener with Purdue. 
JERRY MILLER missed out when Look did a picture story on an ND doctor at the Alayo Clinic in Rochester, but that isn't the reason he has set 
Notre Dame AlumntiSj June-July, 1964 63 
tip practice !n Billings, Mont, (home address, 
I22I N. 26th St.)! JAY LAUE has joined the 
other brains in HuDts\-iIIe, Ala. (409 Warner St,, 
N.W.). WALLY McKENNA is in Detroit (12960 
Rutland) and ED FOX in Glendale, Calif. (1129 
Melrose). 
Would you belic\e it, but there still arc a few 
bachelors in the class?! According to the Chicago 
gossip columns, there will be one less this year. 
Herb Lyon reported in his "Tower Ticker" column 
that jiSi EHRET iias been whispering swcct 
nothings to Honey Carey, TOM CAREY's sister. 
Incidentally, Tom is one of the organizers of the 
Class party after the Purdue game. Also, on a 
recent trip to Net** York I saw an announcement 
on HUGH BOYLE's engagement to Claire Reilly. 
Hugh is a guidance counselor in the Xorwalk 
(Conn.) school sx'stem. 
DICK RUTLEDGE wrote recently to bring mc 
up to date on his wanderings since he left SAC 
Dick got an MBA at the U. of C. in Berkeley. He 
now is manager of sales research for Safeway Stores. 
Dick, Nonna and their little boy liic In San 
Leandro, Calif. (2419 Jamaica Way). He would 
like to hear from DICK O'DONNELL, JACK 
HOBLITZELL and BUD "PROF" LaLONDE. 
Got a letter from JOE MADIGAN (there was 5c postage due. Big Spender), and he said that he would bring gu>'s like TOM BOSSE and JIM SIEGER to the Class party-. He sees roomniatc TIM NORTON on the advertising trail frequently. 
Another lost soul heard from recently was TOM "TIGER" M.\GILL, who now is a department c:hief in Western Elcctric's Allentown Works. Tiger has huag up the g}ovcs, but manages to struggle around the links in about 85 blows on a good day. Tom was in PETE O^MPBELL's wedding party last October, as u ^ BOB HUTCHINSON. I'm sm-e I'm way behind tlie news, but when Tom wrote, he was expecting No. 1 and Bob No. 5 (Hutch, it's up to you to bring mc up to date). Hutch is with DuPont in Washington; Pete with IBM in Wilmington. JOE H/VYDEN and his wife also showed up for the champagne, so it must have been a swinging reception. Tom and Pete wonder where all you Eastcncrs were during the ^fet Club's post-S>Tacuse party. 
Forgot to mention up front that JOHN WEITH­ERS told mc that he runs into JOE DALEY and DON ROBBINS, both SEC lau^crs, in New York. John also bumped into JOHN "WINDY" Mc-CULLOUGH, a \VyDU news staffer, in Wash­ington. RUSS TOOH£Y has the greatest tan in the world after "supen'islng" several construction jobs in Miami, where he ran into CHRIS LARSEN. JERRY BRANSFIELD isn't the only redheaded lawyer In Chicago with a new baby. PHIL SHERIDAN now has a junior In the family. NEAL HALLORAN Is the best prii'ate detective in lou-n (that's a private joke, son!)* FRANK CLELAND switched selling fields. He's with Bankers Life here in Chicago. 
For those of you who have asked for FR. JIM SHERER's address, he can be readied at 4301 Harewood Road, N.E., Washington. Here arc some exotic new addresses for you: JOHN Mc-CALL, Netherlands School of Economics, Pletcr De Hoohwcg 120, Rotterdam, Netherlands; KOJI SHIMAZU, No. 34, 2-chome, Yoyogiuehara, Shi­bu>-a, Tokyo; and FRED BORDALLO, P.O. Box 1933, Agana, Guam. 
Don't forget to order your tickets for tlic Purdue game and join the gang for post-game festivities at the Morris Inn as the Irish start a "New Era*' at home! 
From the Alumni OlSce: 
RAY MANLEY has been «itlj HiJI-King & Barih Certified Public Accountants in Youngstown since last June. 
ED DEMPSEY has been elected secretary of the John J. Soble Lumber Co., Rocliestcr, N.Y. JOE CASASANTA injured his lelt shoulder in an automobile accident In January. 
DR. ELLIS JOSEPH has been elevated to assoc. prof, at the U. of Dayton and, in a reorganization effective next Sept., he w-ill be cliairman of tlie new dept. of secondary cducstlon. 
TOM HARTZELL, Fairport, N.Y., la^vycr, %ras named the executive director of the >Ionroe County Bar Assn.'s new program to provide legal assistance to indigents. 
FR. JAMES BLANTZ CSC, formerly movie pho­tographer for the Holy Cross missions in Uganda, East Africa and Dacca, East Pakistan, Is a pro­fessional magician, and he said he often performed tricks for the natives to gain their favor. He Is cur­rently a pastor in South Bend and is busy on the qteaking circuit and performing his tricks of magic. 
DENNIS LAUGHLIN is working hard as art director for the Notre Dame television station. 

€4 Noire Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
SAGINAW VALLEY—On Univenal Notn Dame Night at LeChateau, Bay City, Mich., 
(from left) guest speaker Dennis Troester of the ND Foimdation, Vicc-Prcs. LawTcnce ( Smith of Sagioan-, Vice-Pres. Robert RomalEer of Saginaw and President Gerald E. Carroll of Bay City seem to be admiring a Mousketccr headdress on Secretary-Treas. Joseph D. Kavanaugb of Bay City. "Hat" is a light Hxturc on wall behind him. 
He draws the cartoons for local commercials, sets up the station breaks and drag's ads for the newspapers. 
FR. JOHN KEEFE and FR. JAMES STUPFEL, on their arri\-al at Nysenyi, Africa, were con­fronted with the problem of quick justice for one of their caicchisis. The catechist took the church tithing money he collected, spent It on a few bottles of local banana beer and then ran into a hjppopola­mus on the way home. Quite sober by this time, he hurried back for first aid and a lecture from Fr. Kecfc that crime doesn't pav. 
ROMY HA.MMES LLD '55 has enlarged his automobile business in South Bend with the help of son Jcrr>' '33. 
•r * Alvin D. Vitt 
OQ 4 Windnish Creek W. St. Louis, Mo. 
FR. TOM CHAMBERS CSC (St. Joseph Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.), now assistant director of Voca­tions for the Holy Cross Fathers' Midwestern Province, visited St. Louis in March to interview candidates for the Congregation. We bad the pleasure of having Father Tom for dinner—7-Up with a twist of lime and lasagna, for those of you who want Tom's favorite menu. Our son. Bob, was so impressed by "the nice priest with the funny laugh*' that Notre Dame has another candidate for 1976. 
MARK BURNS called one February evening from the airport between planes bound for Memphis. Mark's fortunate employer Is IBM, and recently they have moved Mark into management, which is not surprising. 
Another Chicagoan, JOE CLINE, is touring Europe and South America for the next six months. DON COSTELLO is in the Chicago oflke of Young-Rublcam. 
CAPT. ODIS STRONG MD. in the Air Force at Bunker Hill AFB, Ind., wrote Oiat soon he, his wife Margaret and children Leslie and Peter will complete a military tour of duty this July to return to Memphis, Tenn, There Odls will begin a general practice in medicine. PHIL ROSE, Odb (and the column) "OuJd like to hear from you. 
JOE Di LALLO MD (9 Holly Drive, Woodbury, N.J.), a Navy staff psycliiatrist In Philadelphia, departs for a family practice residency at St. Mich­ael's Hospital in Newark, N.J. The Di Lallos have a I4-month-oId daughter and expected to have another arri%-al around Marcli 22. Joe, during a visit to Chicago Jast. June, rcln-ed pre-med da ^ at ND with another classmate, PHIL BOHNERT. Currently Phil Is completing a psychiatry residency at the Illinois State Psychiatric Institute. 
One cold snowy day in February another grand person telephoned to say hello ... . MIKE MOONEY, who is now a Franciscan monk known as PRATER PAT MOONEY. Friar Pat will be ordained in about two vears, presently lives In Teutopolis, III., at the Franciscan Monaster)*; and like FR, TOM CHA]kfB£RS, Fr. Pat Is also busy in the field of vocations. The weekend was spent making a vocational film for the Franciscans. I know both Father Tom Chambers and Pat (or Mike) Mooney would love to hear from their many friends, 
^Vhom do you know in New Albany, Ind.? Yes, DON AIOSER and family, Joyce, Donnie, Marg-, Lisa, and Karl. It took enough encouraging to hea^l from Don, but it was worth waiting for. He says that he and Joyce did get engaged after graduation. "Somehow, we forgot to notify the ALUMNUS, then. We forgot to tell about our marriage, and finally the birth notices. We did try to call you the last time we were in St, Louis, but you %vcre In the Nav>'." Don Is with *'the finest leather tan­ners in the U.S., the George Moscr Leather Com­pany." Joyce and Don attended JOE BILL's wedding In 1961. Joe and wife Grace live In Indianapolis witli their two children. Frankly, I was very surprised and also somewhat embarrassed to see my name in print in our class column In the last ALUMNUS, but apparently the Alumni Assn. received news from a spy here. Since then several have written asking w)jy no more nctt-|^ from mc about me. Well, at the risk of turning' this into an autobiography I'll tr>' to cover seven years BRIEFLY: graduation, US Navy commission as an ensign, Newport, R..I.; US Na^al Academy Post Graduate School, Jfonicrcy, Cah'f,, for one year of meteorology; marriage to a Si. Louisan, Janet CarobTin ^Vebcr; weather officer, US Naval Master Jet Base, Cecil Field, Jacksonville, Fla., 1958-1960; Robert Weber Vitt born in St. Louis June 9, 1958; return to civilian h"fe and St. Louis, June, I960; Katherlne 'Crucius Vitt bom .^pril 7, 1961; Scott Williams Vitt bom November 29, 1962; real estate and mortgage banking with the Mercantile Trust Company. Now let's hear from you. 
From the Alumni Office: V 
CLEM O'NEILL graduated with highest honors from U. of San Diego law school in June, 1963, and passed the Calif, bar examination In Dec, 1963. He is presently associated with a law firm in San Diego. His third child. Sheila Maureen, was bom on Nov. 4, 1963. 
DR. JOHN KENNEDY, head of the depi. of marketing management at ND, has been invited by the Dept. of Defense to conduct a seminar for senior officers serving as project managers for mis­sile, rocket and electronic systems. TIic seminar was held at the headquarters ot the Air Force Logistics Command, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Day­ton, Ohio. 
TOM MILLER, director for first aid, small craft and water safety scr\-ices for the St. Joseph 

County (Ind.} Chapter, American Red Cross, has 
resigned to accept a like post with the Dade County ^fiapter in Miami, Fla, ^GERAL D MASSEY received a PhD in Philosophy 
from Princeton U. in Januar>'. At the same time and place CHRIS WAITERS received his MA In Biology. 
BURT TOEPP, La Grange, HI,, and formerly South Bend, was promoted in February to head a computer development dcpt. at Western Elcctric's Hawthorne Works, Cicero, 111. Western Electric is the mfg. and supply arm of Illinois Bell and other Bell telephone companies. 
Pres. Johnson recently nominated ROGER HIP* SKIND for promotion to Class 4 in the Foreign Scr\-Icc of tlie US. As a Foreign Ser\*ice OfEcer he studied Spanish and Portuguese at the Foreign 
^rr^ice Institute and is currently enotted in grad­
^nte economics courses at the U. of Wisconsin, He has scr\Td overseas in Colombia and Angola and at the Dcpt. of State in the Bureau of Interna­tional Organization Affairs. Roger and Mar>' Ann have one son, Christopher Michael, age 3. 
LARRY DUNWORTH is now an MD having graduated from Georgetown U. ScJiool of Medi­cine in June, 1960. He interned at Grady Hospi­tal, Atlanta, Ga., spent two years in service and is now in residency* at Hcnr>" Ford Hospital, De­troit, studying for his boards in oplithaImolog>'. Larr>- and Deirdrc now have two IittJc daughters. 
DENIS (DICK) BERRY is asst. sales mgr. of 

the hardware div. of L. R. Nelson Manufacturing ^o. , Peoria, III. 9 Good luck to DICK VAN MELE, South Bend, 
in his bid for the Republican slate representative scat. 
DR. PAUL COLLIGAN began bis rc5idLnc>- in Jan. as a fellow in pathology at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. 
*57 ^°''° ^" '^'*='^'='=' 
30 E. 42nd St. New York, N.Y. 

RON FR:\NCIS is now living in Cincinnati, where he is the brancli manager for the United States Leasing Corp. I last saw Ron on Market Street in San Francisco in 1962 just before he joined USLC. From there he went to Seattle and then j just a short time ago to his present location. He ) ^rc d of the singular role, for on x\pril 4 he took I "lis s Paiti Nicola for his life's partner. Patti's brother Is Norm, the starting center [or the Fighlin* Irish. Now Ron has acquired a lifelong 'Meash" —I mean lease. . . . Ron saw ROGER BENNETT and wife Martha in Detroit, where Rog has joined Ford's international finance staff. . . . BUD FRIEDHEIM is also with Ford In the Corporate Finance end. . . . Back to Cinc\' where Ron and the JERRY BECHERTS can hobnob. . , . STARK SANDERS is now a captain and stationed with the Air Force in Tripoli for three years. Peg and Stark along with daughter Karen are living in a villa and splashing around in the Mediterranean. Stark always did have it made. . . . PAUL HEER, one of our flnest stalwarts, has also succumbed and Jast .\ugust married Mar>* Jane Walthousc In 
'Ij^loomlngton, 111. The Hecr family is moving to Nashville, where the old man has accepted the position of manager of admin is tratii'c services for a wholly owned 5ubsidlar>* of Chicago Printed String Co. The first "firecracker" Is due this July 4. , . . GENE HEDRICK reports that he is 
MAJ. L. T. (PETE) PETERSON '58 re­tired from the Air Force in March after 21 years of ser\'icc as a pilot and instructor, including 4J4 years on the campus as ROTC mentor, during which time he earned a degree in economics (ctun laude). Pete is employed by Dempsey-Tcgcler In­vestment, San Antonio, and taking graduate work in economics at Trinity University. 
living on the UXU Dude Ranch In Cody, Wyo. Gino and two others arc owners of UXU, which they plan to operate as a boys' ranch. Gene Is also running hunting trips into the primitive country behind his ranch and would welcome the chance to visit ivilli classmates on one of these trips, Tlierc arc now three little Hedrlcks—two guards and one cheerleader. . . . This column is becoming a den of proposal and marriage statistics. .. . An in­stitution fell on January 11 when JACK EDWARD CASEY shed single bicjscdness to assume the obliga­tions of married life. Tlie Cascys will live in Forest Hills, L.I. . . . Know for a fact that JAKE KIEFER was in for the wedding which took place in Essex, Conn. .. . If this is not enough, then word reached us from Chicago that one ol the finest of all, HAL BLAKESLEE got himself engaged to a Mary Murphy and was set to run down the aisle In April. . . . The lump in my throat causes me to pause. . . . Saw ED DE.-VN at the ND rally at the Waldorf on the eve of the S>'racusc comedy. Ed Is looking quite prosperous (In a Falstaffian u-ay) and is operating a flourislilng legal practice down in Wall Street. At least that Is what his card said. The Deans are living in Upper Montclair, N.J. . . . JOE REICH and GEORGE GROBLE are the only 
two working vice-presiffents we hrnvK, sad the fi^ lowing is by them respectively: JIM McCAlILEy» formerly of our Class, is also in Honstoa seUiac fertilizer to classmates. Last word on JOE HSG^ GINS had him in Houston employed and sin||e. These two situations are subject to nfiid change except the latter. JIM HERRING is happily mar^ ricd and also a citizen of Houston. . . . JOHN BRANDT is in the savings & loan business in Cok^ rado Springs and is on the working committee for the ND-Air Force game next iall. . . . DON MURRAY has opened his own dental practice in Coral Gablesj Fla., and is among the single ^te . , . . JOE NEUHOFF is our first big celebrity with his picture on page 57 of the recent Satorday Eft­ning Post magazine (Col. Glenn on the cover) » head of the meat packing department of Neuhoff Bros, in Dallas. Joe now Is papa to two Ranger­ettes. . . . JOHN TRECHMAN is with SkeUy OU 
in Billings, Mont JIM MORRISON is with Climax Molibdium in Leadvillc, Colo. . . . MARK WATSON is in general insurance in San Antonio and is still single bearing the label "Darling of the Debutantes." . . . SAM RIZZO is doing a great job with Arthur Anderson. . . . MOOSE Mc-DONOUGH is still touting stocks in Houston. JOHN FONTLIROY is with a bank in the same city. . . . CHUCK GRACE is living in La Habra and running Cummins Diesel's West Coast division. . . , LARRV COOKE is an MD in the Navy. . . . DICK S^VIFT is with A.C. Allyn In Chicago. . . . CHARLIE O'CONNELL, recently married, is with Union Carbide in Denver. STEVE JOHNSON has also taken on the marital status and is with IBM in the same city, . . . JLM COUGHLIN is with his father's investment banking firm in Denver. Jim is married with two childen and is the President of 
the ND Club of Denver. GEORGE STRAKE is still running Houston, and he and Annette are the proud parents of three, . . . JERRY G.ARVEY is a captain in the Air Force and did this by graduating near the top of his class. Jerry went on to Princeton and received his PhD in political science & economics. He Is now on the faculty of the Mr Force Academy. . . , TOM McMURTRY is a Lt. in the Na\-y and has recently been as­signed as a Navy test pilot in Maryland, Tom is still going it alone and most likely will be the Class of 37's Astronaut. Had a wonderful visit with JOE REICH when I was in Denver a month ago. Joe b still single and is busily engaged in his own land development business. Out Colorado way they call Iiim "Tea Pot Dome" Reich. . . . Thanks Joe, for the preceding information. The **REICHER** also got down to New Orleans for Mardi Gras and spoke to LARRY HENNESSEY who is doing one great job in the insurance business. Larry said that our good friend, MANNY REVIS is doing his residency and is in fine shape. . . . CHARLIE McKENDRICK is also in the Queen City with the Public Service Co. . . . GEORGE GROBLE has joined his brother Ray In law practice as a full part­ner last July, George and Marilyn had number two in April, '63. , . . The /oIlo»*ing comes from George, \vho along with Reich has been great in rei>orting the news: A group composed of JACK REIST­OFFER, JOHN CUSACK (Asst. D.A.), JOHN (PUBLIC DEFENDER) McDONALD, BILL RIGALI, RAY CAPPELINI and PAT (National Boulevard Bank of Chicago) SHEERIN gathered at the Knute Rockne dinner In the Hilton Hotel in Chicago last December. . . . TOM "TIGEK" MULGAHY came in from Milwaukee for the oc­casion with several highly touted football prospects. 
BUFFALO—^A representative group turned out for th: retreat at St. Columban's Retreat House, Derby, N.Y., Maidi 14. 
f^ Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 65 
. . . BOB O'NEAL is a civil engineer with De I<euw Gather in Chicago. Bob and Barbara have three. Good friend BOB ECKLUND is still "bach­ing*' it and has been transferred to Louisville. Bob is with Johns-^(an\il]e. Barbara and GERRY GERAMI arc liWng in Lafayette, La. and are the parents of four. .. . It so happens that one of LOU LONCARIC's coaching products, Jim Carroll is doing real well for the **Fightin* Irish'*. The crowd at John Boven's restaurant on Lake Street in Chicago on the first Mondav of cvcr\' month has included FRANK HENNESSEY, JOHN FEELY, JOHN CUSACK, JACK REISTOFFER, BOB O'NEAL, and BILL GERONLMO. Tlic Chicago crowd wit] have to start supporting this luncheon get-together if it hopes to continue. Let's get on the ball out there! Will mention that JOHN FEELY is with the Northern Trust Bank. Groble would like to organize a class outing this summer for all Chicago classmates and wives but is won­dering if there is enough support for such a project. If so, please contact FR.\NK HENNESSEY or George. . . . Groble continues to tell us that JOE RINK is still the most faithful St. Louis (Chicago) football Cardinal fan. He follows the team faith­fully. It would be nice to see the old man in NYC this political year for a pleasant discussion. .. . TO.M O'BRYAX is practicing law with Paulson & Ketclium in the Loop. . . . NORRIS BISHTOX, another lau-yer, has been quite active in the Chi­cago ND Club. . . . FRiVNK REILLY has dropped everything except to raise a family in an effort to acquire a doctorate in business at the U. of Chi­cago. Good luck, Frank, George's closing comment is tliat since our illustrious leader, DON BARR has become %*"edded he just "ain't" seen no more. . . . Thanks for the news, George. RAY McCLINTOCK has been named editor of Tlie 
Hoosier Independent—ofHcial monthly magazine of tlie Independent Oil Marketers Assn. of Indiana, Inc. with headquarters in Indianapolis. Ray and Cindy have adopted a son, Kexin Micliael. . . . Bette Jo Sullivan tells us that hubby JOE SUL­LIVAN is now working for the law firm of Stroud, Siebbins & Stroud in ^ladison, Wis. Tlic Sulli\'ans noiv number four with tlie addition of Mary Bridget and Joseph Carroll. . . . LLOYD STAUDER and his wife Jcanninc arc now living in Bridgeport, Conn., where he is employed as a patent attorney for GE. The Stauders have three ranging from 4 to 9 mos. . . . Llovd asks what's happened to BOB NOWAKOWSKI, DICK FOX, JACK SCRIBA, JOHN NITKA, BILL BAPST, DICK POLLEXZ? How about it? . . . Heard from our good friend BOB M.-\RCO, whom I last saw two years ago at the Ivanhoe in Chicago. Since then he has accomplished mucli, such as a beautiful wife and two future NDcrs, Mike and Tim. . . . Bob and Fat are painfully living just south of San Francisco in Millbrae, where he is tlic asst. branch mgr. of the SFO office of the motors holding di­\ision of GMC. . . . Bob passes along the informa­tion that BOB MILLER is living in Cleveland and operating out of fashionable bacliclor quarters. Bob is with station WERE. Also saw Mari|\-n and AL DANT along with JOHN HAMMETT, who I can happily report is with me in XYC and ver\' much the single man. . , . BOB BERSCHIXSKI is still in Portland but is presently on a leave of absence from Portland U. and attending U. of Oregon completing work on his doctorate. Bob Marco re­ports that the Bcrscliinskis number six, but in the past few montlis the situation could have changed. . . . Also saw my good friends the TOM HALEYS. Tom is successfully running his convales­cent hospital in MUv^-aukie. just outside of Portland. Bob missed seeing TO.M HUGHES who is also a Portlander. JOE BIHX is out of the "chicken business" and working for GM Chevrolet division. The Bihns are living in Walnut Creek just outside of San Fran. Thanks muclily. Bob, for all the preceding info. Wish sonic of your classmates (especially our so-called V P's) would take note. I personally have had the pleasure of a xisit from Sheila and BILL MOOXEY over a weekend. Bill is now the president of Moonej-, Ward & Mueller in Indianapolis. An addition to the family >s expected in April. . . . Bill reports that BILL McGOWAX has done a terrific job on the planning and pro­motion of UXD night in "X'aptown". . . . Hannah and MIKE STOREN arc living in Baltimore, where Mike is the promotional director for the Bullets. He has been keeping the front oflicc working at a fast clip filing ticket demands that resulted from an extensive promotion push by Mike and Iiis staff. This information was not received via the mail but in an article I spied in The Sporting News last February'. Mike is certainly to be congratulated for his outstanding work. . . . FRANCIS LUNDEN is now living in Matawan, X.J., where he is in fluo-Focarbon sales for Kaiser Aluminum. Tlie Lundens are anxiously awaiting the birth of their third child 
66 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
in June . FLASH . . . FL.ASH . . . Stop the world, I want to get off! DOX BARR just informed me that FRAXK HEXNESSEY is engaged to Miss Donna Gleason and a July wedding is planned. Sorr>'t I am unable to report additional info since all of a sudden cver>'thing seems blurred and my copy is getting wet- . . . The event takes place in Chicago, July 25. .. . If people thought the great Chicago fire was something, wait until the 25th. . . . Our prayers arc requested for the mother of Classmate JAMES BYRNE, who died last October. 
From the .-Mumni Office: 
JOHN DOYLE is with the Chase Manhattan 
Bank. 
FRAXK PERRETTA, former city editor of the 
Oneonta. Star, has moved to East Stroudsburg, 
Pa., where lie is news editor of the Stroudsburs 
Daily Record. You should see him quiet his ninc­
month-old daughter by singing, off tune naturally, 
the ND Victory March. 
PAT CONWAY is now mgr. of the facilities adm. dept. of Control Data Corp. 
FRANK LUXDEX is now living in Matawan, N.J., and working in fluorocarbon sales, X.Y. Metropolitan Area, for Kaiser .Aluminum & Chemi­cal Corp. His wife is expecting their third child in June. Frank said he ran into JOHN" McDONELL in a pub on thr near north side of Chicago be­fore he left in Januar\* and that John is a public defender for the city. 
GEXE GRIFFIX has been appointed Illinois state asst. attorney and has been assigned to the criminal prosecution div. 
ROBERT MILLER, who will become principal of Elston Jr. High next fall, has been named this year's winner of the Micliigan City, Ind., Jr. Chamber of Commerce Distinguished Service Award. He is now a guidance counselor at Barker Jr. High, where he Is a member of a school curriculum committee which helps to update studies offered in the school s>'stem. His work was so effective that dropouts at the school were reduced to less than 2 per cent of the enrollment. He is also active in civic, fraternal and political organizations. 
DOX THORMAX Gr '57 has been appointed assoc. director of the South Bcnd-Mishawaka Chap­ter of the National Conference of Christians and Jcv^-s. Don recently resigned as publisher and di­rector of development for the Spiritual Life In­stitute of America and prior to that he served from '5(>-'62 as managing editor of .Ave Maria Magazine. 
^VILLIAM J. HAWTCINS '59 (right), an editor of General Telephone's bi-monthly Automatic Electric News, received the Cru­sade of Mercy Merit Award from Chair­man Joseph LaBine at a recent luncheon of the Chicago Industrial Editors Assn. Bill was cited for a series of articles in his com­pany publication supporting the Chicago charitable fund campaign. 
IF O 1/Lt. Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 
9 0 343rd Air Base Squadron 
Box 74 i 
Duluthf Minn. 
Gentlemen, my congratulations. The urgent ap­peal for news contained in our last column has beer met with a very generous response. Consequentiv we have quite a bit to report this time, and tc conserve space we will get right into it. 
Unfortunately, the first item is an unhappy one. Wc arc sorry to report the passing away of JACK CRILLY's mother last October. On behalf of all members of the class wc extend our sympathy and prayers. 
Other unpleasant news is that JIM "HOOT" WALSH was seriously injured in an auto accidciV on Dec 23. Although he is recuperating no\" Jim was vcr>' near death for several days and received the Last Rites. Apparently Jim is entirely out of danger now but faces a long period of re­cuperation. I am sure he would appreciate hearing from us; his address is 1818 Holly Drive, Spring­field, III. By the way, additional news more in keeping with Hoot's efferx'escent personality is that he expects an addition to the family in August. 
Due to the number of items we wish to report. Wc will have to capsulize the following items and delete extra verbiage as much as possible. Please excuse therefore, the lack of style. 
On April 20, 1963, MIKE GLE.\SOX was wed to Miss Joan Hourihan of Boston, in Gunnison. Colo., where Mike was working on tlie Blue Mc ^ Dam project for the Tccon Corp. of Dallas. Mike and spouse arc now living at Star Route 2, Xew Braunfcls, Tex. 78130, wlierc Mike is project engi­neer for Canyon Dam. Last March, the Glcasons Welcomed a son, John Michael, to the family. 
JOHN DUNN (903 S. Clinton, Oak Park, III.) is still with Standard Oil in Chicago. He reports that on a recent trip to Washington he met ROD METTE (married to former Mar\- O'Boylc and working for international division of the FCC), DICK BIES (in the Air Force JAG Dept. doing patent work), ED OTOOLE (also doing patent work for tlie Air Force), TOM CLUSSERATH (more on Tom below) and JERRY CONROY (now employed by Gulf Oil in their Washington patent department). MIKE SHAXXOX will be wed to Miss Laura McGrath of St. Louis on July 4, 19&1, according to Mr. Dunn. ^ 
Our s>*mpathy is also extended to ROD METT^ on the passing away of his mother in February. Please remember her in your prayers. 
TOM CLUSSERATH writes from 301 G Street, S.W., Apt. 506, Washington, D.C. 20024, reporting his marriage last June 22 to Kayc Rigby. Tom is with the SEC as a special assistant to Byron D. Woodside, one of the five commissioners. 
JOHN EXGELS is stationed aboard the USS Delta (FPO San Francisco, Calif.) based in Long Beach. At time of writing, John, was on a tour of the Far East (Philippines, Japan, Hong Kong). John is a graduate of Michigan Medical School; interned in Grand Rapids, Mich; is married and the father of three. John reports that BOB PIVONKA is in Durango, Colo., spending six montlis of his residency* requirements in gener^ practice. Bob and spouse also have three childrei^ JERRY SHAXK is u-ith the Air Force in \^ct Nam, holds the rank of captain and is stationed in Saigon. (Ed. X'ote: Since this writing, Jerry died in action and WSLS returned Stateside for burial. Sec obituary and story* in this issue. JL). 
TOM ERBS writes from St. Louis, where he is practicing law (Erbs & Erbs, 711 St. Charles St., St. Louis). In the course of his travels he has run into GREG CORKERY, JACK COSTELLO, JOE McDOXNELL, FRANK TEGETHOFF, DOX ALBERS, WALT KISLIXG, JOHX STEURER, TO.M CORCORAX, JOHN DINARDO, and JOHX SULLIVAN. 
RON KROLICKI will be married June 20 to Miss Suzanne Banas. He has finished his tour in th^ Xaw and is currently working for Ford Motor i^ Dearborn, Mich. His address: 7110 Oakman Blvd., Dearborn. 
TOM LYNCH is now with Compton Advertising, Inc. (625 Madison Ave., New York) as assistant account executive for Ivory Soap. Tom spent two years in the Navy, enrolled at Wharton Business Scliool, received an MBA, worked for General Mills for over a year and then headed back for the East and Compton. 
BOB PARNELL is now employed by Bell Labora­tories in Homdcl, X.J., while continuing his studies with Bell at the same time. 
FRANK M.ANZO is now married and living with wife Linda and firstborn Michael on Washington Crossing Road, Xewton, Pa. He is in the real estate business. 
JACK REVORD has been on the road quite a 

bit lately, marketing a synthetic whipping cream.in —ihc Midwest. In the course of his Journeys he has Wicountercd BILL SHERMAN, JACK LISKE 
(%vith US G>T)sum), WALT KISLING, CLARK REARDOX (with Pillsbury in Minneapolis), JOHN DEE (principal of a school in Illinois), STEVE POWERS, JOHN MCDONOUGH, BOB CAIOLA (with Dow Chemical in Midland, Mich.), BILL 
SCANLON, JOHN MCDONALD, ED BROD. 
ERICK (practicing law in Philadelphia) DICK MURPHY (practicing law in Boston), JOE ROMEO and MARTY LETSCHER. 
FATHER ED NASH writes from Saint Rose Priory, 2570 Asbur>-, Dubuqnc, where he is finishing his fourth and final year of thcoIog\-. Ed was ordained last year in the Dominican Order (and, as a matter of fact, was celebrant of our Class 

ntas s at last ycar*s reunion). Father Ed reports that JOHN (BROTHER TIMOTHY) McG\RTHY will be ordained in another year. 
JIM KING who left ND after three years to enter nied school at St. Louis, is now in his second year of rcsidenc>- at University Hospital of Cleve­land. He is married and expecting the arri\-al soon of his second child. PAT HOG.AN was mar­ried in Cleveland last June and is now in his first year of surgical rcsidcnc>- in Milwaukee. TOM THOMAS graduated from Georgetown mcd school in 1962 and is also in rcsidenci* now. (Jim King's address: 6823 Krakow Ave., Cleveland 5.) 
VINCE SULLIVAN is recuperating from a severe 

bout with spinal meningitis which almost removed d^jbim from our ranks last winter. His wife wrote *?n December with the good .icws of Vince's rc­
cover\-. In Januar\- the SuIHvaas moved to Toledo 
where Vince has been transferred. 
BOB FABBRO is in the construction business In Akron (3808 S. Turkeyfoot Rd.). He and his wife, who supplied this news, now have three children. Bob's brother Dick, an architect with the firm of Tuchman and Canute, married Bob's wife's sbter last Oclobcr. 
JOHN BERCHE.M is xvith Northern Trust Co. in Chicago as a computer systems analyst. 
BILL STURGIS and wife Nancy are in Loudon, Tcnn., and now have two children. No address currently available. 
HANK ZfVNG became a new father last May (*63). He is living at 1004 Jersev Ave., Normal. 
111. TOM GOZDECKI and his wUe Carole had 

child number 2 last November. .MIKE UNDER­tfjlVOOD is now working in Davenport. ^ The GEORGE CONNOLLYS of 980 Hawthorn 
Dr., Lafayette, Calif., now have three children, the 
latest haxing arrived in November, 19G3. 
FR.\NK TEGETHOFF (&t2 Laven-Dcl, Kirk­wood, Mo.) is in the residential construction and development business in and around St. Louis. He is now married and the father of four. JOHN STEURER is married and the father of one son. He is working for his docloralc at the U. of Arizona. DON ALBERS is with Albers Construction Co. in St. Louis and the father of one son. GERRY SOLETA is married, obtained his MA from ND . in 1960, and is now at Illinois Institute of Tech­nology' seeking his doctorate. Frank TegetholT would like to hear from DICK SWEET.NLVN, 

-DICK PINTER, BOB LOEFFLER and PHIL ^I'lERNEY. 
TOM CROZIER (47(H Broadview Rd., Gahanna, Ohio) is a claims adjuster with Aetna Casualty & Surety and attending law school in the evenings. Tom is married and has one son. with another expected momentarily at time of writing. 
BOB EJVRLY is city hall reporter for the .\rizona Republican in Phoenbc. Bob and wiic, Gail, have three children and reside at 6743 N. Hth Place. Phoenix 14. TOM EDWARDS and his family (two children) arc living in Berlin, Conn., where Tom edits the General Electric Company publica­tion. JOE DEZELiVN is in Indianapolis working for Vonnegut Hardware Stores as an accountant. HARRY BLAN'TON and family arc in Sikeston, Mo. LARRY BALL and his wife recently wel­

come d their second daughter. They arc living in ^linncapolis. JIM TERMINI is working at the Air Force Missile Development Center at White Sands, N.M. BERNIE COOPER and family are in Indianapolis. JIM DfVNIELS is in Long Beach, Calif. JOHN REISS is in Wheat Ridge, Colo. 
JIM STEINTR^VGER and wife ^fariannc are in Austin, Tex., where Jim is on the faculty of the 

U. of Texas. Jim obtained his Ph.D at the U. of Chicago and previously taught at LSU. The Steintragers have one child. JOHN KEARNS was last heard from in Verdun, France. GERRY CURRY is practicing law in New York City. JIM LENOX became a father for the third time last Christmas. Jim is now back in Detroit. GEORGE OESS is somewhere in Chicago. BILL LEININ­GER is in Houston and married. He is engaged 
ST. LOUIS—Prominent in Universal Notre Dame Night festivities in St. Louis April 23 were (from left): Connie Lane Jr., elected president for 1964; Thomas J. AVhite 1963 ND Man of the Year; Herman L. Kriegshauscr, outgoing president; Dr. Daniel L. Sexton, 1964 Man of the Year; and Dr. George N. Shuster, University chief planner. 
in some type of research in economics. WILL 
KILBOURNE is teaching at a college in New 
England and living at 104 Elliott Rd., Trumbull, 
Conn. 
DICK LEfVCH is married to former Rosemary-
Baucn of Chicago. Dick is now a manufacturer's 
representative in New Orleans (318 Bragg Si.) 
having spent three years with Borg-Warner in 
Chicago. He would like to hear from FR.-\NK 
H.\NLEY. 
DON SCHUTT (1399 Harlow Rd. Columbus, O.) is currcnty stationed at Lockbourne -AFB, having been previously assigned at Lackland, Spcncc, Craig, Moody and McConncIl Air Force Bases. Don is now a captain and is on a combat crew standing alert duty in the States and in England. Don was married in June of 1962 and now is the father of a daughter boni last February. TOM TRACE (Capt.) is also stationed at Lock­bourne. Capt. DENNY D'ALELIO is stationed at Pease AFB, N.H. (115 White Birch, Pease AFB, N.H.) TOM SWIATOWSKI is living at 612 Anchorage Dr., N. Palm Beach. Fla. STAN WEGRZYNOWiCZ is living at 7417 Kern Ave. Detroit, where he is teaching and coaching at one of the Detroit colleges. 
JOHN MACKSOOD is a captain in the Army medical corps, presently stationed at Ft. Benning, Ga. (114 Zuckerman .\vc.). John is married and the father of four. He attended Marquette Med School, interned at Hurlev Hospital, Flint, Mich. 
JLM MURRiVY MD is assigned to the USS Tutuila as medical ofhccr. He attended St. Louis Med School and interned at the National Naval Medical Center in Bcthesda, Md. Jim is married and the father of two. 

GARY COOPER (Capt. USMC) is assigned to the USS Chicago as Marine detachment commander at San Francisco. Gary and his wife are the proud parents of three children. He recently completed a year and a half of duty at Barstow, Calif, following a tour in Hawaii. GarN* has run into BOB MORETTI, a consultant for the Assembly Committee on Elections of the Calif. Legislature. Others who have crossed paths with Capt. Cooper are STEVE BARRETT, BRUCE MALEC, DAN BERGEN and BOB BURNS. Gary's address: Marine Detachment, U.S.S. Chicago (CG-U), FPO San Francisco. 
RON BABCOCK (42 Riverside Dr., SufTcm, N.Y.) is married to the former Barbara Fleck of Dayton and now has two daughters. He is em­ployed by Arthur Andersen & Co. (CPA) in NYC. ED CAREN is a design engineer with the Rocky Flats division of Dow Chemical. His new address is 5938 Union St., Arvada, Colo. Ed is married and the father of three boys. 
GERRY McC/VBE returned to the states last December after four and a half years in Germany with the Army- He is currently stationed near Washington, D.C., and will enroll at Arizona State in September to seek an MA while remaining in the Army. 
DUANE V/\N DYKE is married and welcomed the arrix-al in February of a daughter, Dcbra Lee. Duanc and family reside at 3846 Evans St., Apt. No. 3. Los Angeles 27. He is teaching at Wood­bury College having received his MS from Southern 
Cal in Januarv. 
HENRY RUSCIO is with -Mve Sdentific, a dix^ion of the Brunswick Corp., having been en-engaged for a time as a pharmaceutical salesman in Schenectady, after his release from the Navy. While serving with the Navy in California, Henry 
' met his wife, and 'was married in Alberta, Canada. The Ruscios' address: 102 Church St., Winchester, Mass. 
That's it for now. Many thanks to the contribu-

From the Alumni OfHce: 
TOM SHE.\ of New Rochelle, N.Y., has been named product mgr. of J. B. Rocrig and Co. div. of Chas Pfizer & Co. 
JOE RICH has been appointed petroleum chemi­cals sales specialist in the Los Angeles district sales oflicc of ^fonsanto Chemical Co.'s Organic Chemi­cals Div., after ser\'ing as production super\'isor at its William G. Krummricli Plant, Monsanto, III. 
FR. MICHAEL HEPPEN *59 stopped in at the Alumni Office to inform us that MIKE &VTAN­Z^VRO had moved from • Baltimore to 326 Lincoln Dr., Verona, Pa., and is with the legal branch of Westinghouse. 
DAVE PAIRITZ has been admitted to partner­ship in a South Bend certified public accountant firm. He is the new pres. of the Northern Indiana chapter of Certified Public .Accountants. 
Capt. CH.-\RLES KILB has graduated from fl>-ing training and received the silver wings of a US.-\F pilot at Williams AFB, .Ariz. He flew the newest jet trainers and received special academic and military' training during the course. He has been reassigned to Luke AFB, .Ariz., for specialized training in F-IOO aircraft. 
JOHN FR/\NKS received his PhD in Chemistry from Western Reser\'c U. at their Jan. graduation. 
DR. BOB BORCHERS, asst. prof, of physics at the U. of Wisconsin, received a grant and now plans to study and do research at the Institute for Theoretical Physics in Copenhagen, Denmark. 
Rt\Y ANDREW is the new patent counsel for Consolidated Electrodynamics Corp., subsidiary of Bell & Howell Co. 
DAVE LINK, an official of the US Internal Revenue Ser\*icc, Washington, D.C., returned to ND to give a talk for a series of lectures. He re­cently was a speaker, session leader and panelist during a symposium on legal information retrieval at the National Archives. 
GENE HEDRICK Is managing director and a partner of Highlands Ranch for Bo>-s in Wapiti, Wvo., in the Shoshone National Forest. Gene has four partners including MURIL VINCELETFE '55. They have t\vo camp sessions each summer 
— five weeks long — and in the fall they change over to a hunting lodge from Sept. through Nov. The Board of Directors includes MOOSE KRAUSE and FRANK LE.AHY. 
BOB SENEGAL has accepted a new position as specialist in community development at the State 
U. of Iowa. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 67 
CONFIDENTIAL MEMO To: ND Class of 1959 Subject: 5th Anniversary REUNION Weekend —June 12-13-14 1964 
Dennis M. Ncad 
•59 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 
This will be the last column before our first C'ais Reunion which commences Friday, June 12 through Sunday, the 14th. JOHN LEAm' has agreed lo serv'c as local chairman for this affair—tentative plans have been made for Dillon Hall and if at all possible, FR. COLtlNS uiJI say the Class Mass. Saturday morning, June 13. Again the weekend will cost you around $25 providing you stay away from the card sharks and the press betters on the golf course. I definitely plan to attend the reunion unless Uncle Sam requires my attendance at summer camp during this period; sec you there. 
JACK THOM.-VS was married to Miss Patricia Claire Bclivcau on Februar>* 8 in Lcwiston, Me. 
FRED VID.A at present is a systems analx-st at the Continental Xational Bank and is working for his MBA at the U. of Ch-cago night school. GENE BOYLE is also working for the Continental in the tax department. 
A few Chtcagoans planning to attend the June 
reunion include BOB VOSDRASEK, DICK MUR­PHY, HARRY McKEE, TOM GILL, JOHN BROSIUS, PAT AVALSH and BILL HA^VKLVS. BARRETT GLEIXXER is also working for his MBA at the U. of Chicago night scliool. 
TONY GRAHAM was graduated from Vale Law School in June of '62 after taking tJie Illinois Bar exams in September of the same year, reported for active duty as a reserve officer in the US.\. He now is attaclied to military intelligence and is stationed in Nuremberg, Germany. Tony, his wife (the former Mary Rink of W'ilmctte, HI.) and their two small children expect to return to Chicago at tiic end of the vcar. 
REV. CHARLES M. DAHM, OP \vas ordained to the priesthood on Saturday, April 18, in the chapel of St. Rose Prior\', Dubuque, Iowa. Fr. Dabm offered his Rrst solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Chapel, York & Arthur Sts., Elmhurst on Sunday. April 19. While at ND Fr. Dahm studied in the combined Ans-Englnccring Program and was a member of the Blue Circle Honor Society. 
REV. JERO.^^E J. LANGFORD, OP was also ordained to tlie sacred priesthood April 18 in the Dominican Order's Province of St, Albert the Great (also Fr. Dahm). Fr. Langford offered his fir^t solemn Mass in Holy Cross Church, 1520 Vassar Ave., South Bend. Fr. I.angford studied for one year at ND where he was asst. sports editor of the Sciiolastic and won a numeral sivcatcr on the freshman fencing team. 
ANTHONY CIARAVINO has completed his grad­uate studies in law at N^TJ and obtained his degree In June, 1963. He is now practicing law in Detroit in his own office in the First National B/dg. 
DICK KATIS received his M.A in August of "61 and on Dec 29, '62, ^vas married to the former Mary Stuart of St. Louis; he is now working for McDonnell Aircraft. 
JON JACOBY got his .MBA from Harvard last June after t^vo years in the Na\y and is now work­ing for an investment firm in Little Rock, Ark, 
TOM LONDRIGAN just got married last Aug. 31 and he and hb bride live in Springfield, 111., where lie is an asst. to a US Attorney. He got ills law degree from Illinois in '62. 
DAVE AMIDON was married the Christmas after graduation and he and his wife Jon now have a boy and a girl. After about 13 mos. of flight train­ing Dave joined a NAF patrol squadron in Jackson­ville, Fla.; he soon expects to attend the Naval PG school in Monterey to continue with aeronautics. 
KES HIEGEL taught at the Naral Academy for two years and is now working for McDonnell air­czaft In St. Louis. He has one boy and a little girl; wife's name is Mar>* Bea. 
either correspondence shou:s BILL MAGUIRE is working for Dand Taylor Model Basin and BIFF MORETTE is out of the Air Force and just started iiis family with a son. I received a letter from FRANK NACOZY which mentions other classmates so 1*11 quote his note: "I spent the Rrst two-and-one­half years with a teaching fellowship at UCLA in libth. During that time, I married a girl from 

68 Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 
New Orleans, had my first boy and ran into JOHN AfURRAV who had just given the Carthu­sian Order a tr>-. I am now working on my doctor­ate at UCLA and work at Hughes Aircraft Co. as a math analyst. I frequently see BILL Mc-AD.AMS who is married to a girl from Chicago, has an MA in engineering and plays on the team that is my arch rival in the industrial league. I saw BOB KRIEBEL in San Diego oier Christmas; he married a girl from Pittsburgh and has three children. After ser\-ing three years in the Na%-y, Bob is working at General Atomic as an experi­mental physicist. DR. MIKE SHEA is single and still playing cards. After finishing Tufts last June he is now in St. Paul, Minn. FR.ANK PR.AN'TIL is Working in LA, has passed the bar exam, and has a wife and two children. JERRY FARLEY after a couple of years in the Army married a nurse, is working in insurance, and is pursuing his law degree at UCLA." 
MICKEY SUNDSTROM, after having traveled all over the world, is currently stationed with the USX Amphibious Base in San Diego, Calif. .After discliarge from the service the Ii'ttlc touring pro uill cither go back into the brokerage business or go back to school for his MA; he also plans to get into politics hot and heavy and run for the Illinois State legislature in '66 on the Republican ticket— and who knou3, maybe Mick can help Bill Miller out with things on Capitol Hill. Mick plans to attend the reunion in June where bets t:an he placed on the first tec but I advise you to check and make sure his putter isn't still crooked. 
From tlie .-Mumni Office: 
\:r. and -Mrs. TERKE.\CE P. KEATING have set up a scholarship fund for students already en­rolled in Xotrc Dame's Communication Arts Dept. 
PAUL NIKL,-\S is now married and owner of his own home at 1315 Cr>'er Ave., Cincinniiti 8, 
Ohio. 
DON LAWRENCE is coaching at Kansas State. HARRY LEINENWEBER was appointed city at­torney of Joliet, III. 
BRO. MARION BELKA SM PhD '59 chairman of the education dcpt. at St. Mar\-*s U., has been named general editor of a new scries of high school guidance text books to he published by the Bruce Publishing Co., of Milwaukee, Wis. He will direct the work of four co>authors in producing four volumes for students and four teacher manuals. TIic project is expected to take about two and a half years, \rith the first volume scheduled for June, 1965. The series will take a new approach to group guidance that has never been used before, Bro. Marion said. 
Our sympathy to JERRY GORMAN on the death of his brother Robert. 
Mrs. LEONARD JAMES LcROSE ('53) sent us the following letter about LEONARD JOSEPH LcROSE. "I'm sorr>- but Lt. LcRosc '55 met with a tragic accident this December 23. A B-52 jet bomber of the Strategic Air Command, of whi'cfi he was an extra co-pilot, exploded in the air and crashed seconds after ukeoff, killing the crew of 
JAMES J. DUNNIGAN SR. was honored as ND Man of the Year by the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo m April UND Night cere­monies. President of Buffalo Raceways, Jim hosts annual "Notre Dame Night at the Races." 
nine. The plane was from the SAC base at Co­lumbus, Miss. This was the day after Lenny celebrated his first wedding anniversary. He w^ , 
buried on January 2, 196i, the second annivcrsarf 
of his joining the .Air Force. In addition to his wife, Judy, he is survived by his parents, Helen and Joseph LeRose, and a sister, Patricia, all of 851 D'Amico Dr., Chicago Hts., III. Please ask his class­mates to remember him and the family in their prayers." 
TOM MURIUY MA '59, former leacJiing asst. in the ND dept. of English, is now editor of the Kclscy Re\-iew. The Review, a faculty publication of creative and scholarly writing, is now in the second year of publication. Notre Dame men in­terested in new sources of publication ol any type material, as long as it is nonpcdanttc and unpre­tentiously academic, might consider the Review^ Tom would be vcr>" happy to receive any co ^ rcspondence. Tom studied at Rutgers on the usual 
assistantship program and then joined the English 
staff at Trenton Junior College, where he is pres­
ently an asst. prof. 
VIC McFADDEN LLB '59 St. Joseph County deputy prosecutor and former public defender and atty. for the local Legal Aid Society, was the general chairman of this year's St. Patrick's Day banquet sponsored by the Ancient Order of Hi­bernians in South Bend. 
TOM MIRANDA PhD '59. director of research for the O'Brien Corp,, South Bend, spoke at the annual spring lecture series of the Chicago So­ciety for Paint TccIinol^Ty' at O'-P.-nil U. Tom has written several papers on poI>Tncr chcmistr^ 
REV. JOHN O'BKIET; LL D '59, professor of philosophy at ND, was inter\-rewed by David Brink-Ie>- on TV on "Birth Control: How?" Fr. O'Brien discussed family planning ivithin the framework of the Catholic doctrine. 
•JLA John F. Geier 1045 Linden Ave. Wihnette, lU. 
From the Alumni Office: MIKE BUTLER has joined the Chase Manhattan Bank staff as a trainee in their trust dept. 
FRS. J.AMES F. CALLAHAN of Youngstown, Ohio, and ROBERT C. U^RE of Bedford, Ind., were ordained ^larch 14 in the chapel of Holy Cross College in Rome- Italy. Both ivill return »' ND for ad\'anccd studies while serving as residence hall cliaplains this fall. 
MILT McANGUS has become associated with the Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co as an agent in South Bend. 
JOHN "JACK" SCHROEDER, who left the 
J. C. Penney Co. in March of 1963 (after three years) and is currently selling consumer products for J.P. Stevens and Co., has has been transferred to their Detroit olHcc in the David Slott Bldg., Room 2816. He and his wife Nanc>- have a son Gregor>*, 2, and a daughter Beth, B mos. 
ED HILGENDORF is the new full-time atty. for tlic Legal Aid Society of South Bend. 
TOM QUINN is in cliargc of the newly opened Chicago office of Digital Equip. Corp., Slaynar^^ Mass. Tlicy handle sales and service of DigilalV line of computers, circuit modules, and mcmor>* test s>'steins in the upper Midwest. 
After graduation CHRISTIE FL.\NAGAN at­tended the U. of Texas School of Law, and was graduated from there in August, *62. Ife began practicing in Houston as an assoc. atty. with a firm. He married Grctchen NcuhofT, whom he met while attending law school, on December 27, '63. He sends his best to the Class of '60. 
JIM WATERS is a registered representative of the municipal bond dcpt. at the Philadelphia office of Reynolds & Co., members of the N.Y. Stock Excliange and other leading exchanges. 
DICK STEGMAX is now employed by the US Nai-al Research Laborator>' and joins several other ND grads including: P.\UL CHANG '51, JOHA ^ DAVEY '51, JOHN DUNN '42, GEORGE HAA^ '50, CRARLES HUMMER '59, JOHN IVORY '52, JOHN AUNNING '30, MIKE MARRONE '59. RON V.ARDI.MAN '54, and ELIGIUS WOLICKI '50. 
KEN BIRCHARD recently joined the staff of the Tri-Statc Bank, Markham, III., as customer relations mgr. 
USA 1st Lt. ART KANERVIKO undcr^vent numerous cold-weather tests witli his unit in winter trainiog^ at Grmienwohr, Germany, in Februar>'. Art is regularly assigned as executive officer of an armor div. near Gclnhausen, Germany. 
1st Lt. CHARLES GILLIES, at Evreux AB, France, has been certified by the USAF as quali­fied to serve as commander of a C-130 Hercules. 

CAMPUS CX.UB idations arc demon­strated by preseotatioii of Chicago Player of the Year award by Campus Pres. Ed Dunn (2nd from right) to Bill Pfeiffer as Pres. Paul Fullmer (left) and outgoing Prcs. Art Conrad look on. Ed is an ex-officio board member to promote liaison ttvith new altmini. Chicago won the Alimwi Assn. Best Campus Club airard this spring, with Detroit ( 1963 winner) the runner-up. 
A pilot with two years scrx'Icc, he received his advancement after passing rigid academic and fly­ing requirements. 
TOM MAYER has become a member of a law firm in Bismarck, N.D. 
ROBERT BLUAI, who expected to be married in April, is using his ND training to good ad­\*antage. His father adWscd that lie take account­ing rather than sales. Following the advice. Bob finished his sJx-monlhs military- obligation and went into sales with the X[ead Corp. He's now in charge 
|pf sales for the new Fiber Drum division. Bob's a 
liiatural in sates and the accounting background gives him an organized approach to price lists, costs and marketing analj^ts. 
ljL | Nick Palihm'ch V I 34 Dartmouth Rd. West Orange, N.J, 

Although the calendar on my desk IcHs me that spring at last is here, I am certain you would have a hard lime proving it in the Metropolitan area of New York City. To put it mildly, we are still freezing at this April writing. As a matter of fact, if I hadn't seen Sir. Mantle crash two round­
r^ppers against the Reds yesterday in the Grape-
trait Circuit, I i*-ou!dn't believe it myself. That last sentence was just a slight dig at all those "reborn'* Brooklyn Dodger fans. Believe me, it's been a long, Hard winter for the followers of the "pin-stripe gang." 
I received a verj' wonderful letter from GEORGE O'CONNELL CSC, who is presently living in Washington, D.C., at the Foreign Mission Seminary of Holy Cross and preparing for work in cither Pakistan or Uganda. George asked me in his letter to extend a cordial invitation to all classmates pass­ing through D.C., or living in the area, to visit the Mission at any time. Knowing George person­ally, I can't think of a more worthwhile experience. I have always felt that a University can only truly be measured by the caliber of the people that attend 
Rt. This guy is one of the reasons we arc the best. 
MOSE GLYNN is in his first year of theology at St. Mary of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, III. Mose will finish his training in the spring of '67, and at that time be ordained. TOM GARDOCKI will receive his subdlaconate this spring, after com­pleting his third year of theology at St. Mar>-'5 in Baltimore. 
DAVE HIPP, BILL WETZEL, and DAVE ^VOCH­NER will have been graduated from the U. of Illinois Law School in this summer of 19G4. At the same time they will all tie the big knot m this month of June. Dave Wochner will marry Miss Joan Hennessey on the I3th; Dave Htpp, Miss Sandy Swanson on the 20th; and Bill Weteel, Miss Peggy Rust on the 27th of the month. Thu group must have taken a special course in planning^ and co­ordination. DAN ALLEN is currently working at General Dynamics, astronautics and planning, and hopes to finish hts master's program at San DJego State College In this June of '64. Dan and his wife Joyce recently announced the arrival of their second son, Daniel, on Dec. 16, 1963. Dan's room­mate DICK NEELY is completing his law study at the U. of San Diego this month. On March 5, I964-, Dick and his wile Eleanor were blessed with the addition of a baby boy to their family. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM "RED" &UCK an­nounced the arrival of a boy, ^VilHam Richard Mack 
II. If he runs anything like his old man he has got it made. 
That greatest of all Southern rebeb, D.AVE KILROY, is currently employed with the Standard Register Co. In Charlotte, N.C. His partner in crime in the Tarheel State is ROGER DRISCOLL; can you imagine these two guys traveling in the same company? Those poor Southern belles haven't a chance. Dave Informed me that my old next door neighbor In Pangbom Hall, CHARLIE CAYCE, was recently married in Newport News, Va. Also that JOE LIBBY was married in Martins­ville, Va., last September. Brother Jay is completing his military obligation in Washington, D.C. Another Southerner, BILL BENDER of Red Springs, N.C , is in his senior year of medicine at the U. of North Carolina. 
Flash: BIG ED STEPHAN is not in grad school. He is currently working at Homblowcr and Wcens-Storn Bros, in Chicago and has been employed there since graduation. Ed, I hope that sets things straight, although I am sure I haven't got the name of your firm correct yet. TOM ROPERS is work­ing for the Fisher Body Division of General Motors. TOM RYAN is presently manager of the Ver­million Office of the Lorain National Bank in Lorain, Ohio. In February of 1962 Tom married Carole Czech of Lorain, and they are now the parents of a daughter. Colleen Anne, who Is now 13 months old. PAUL LAFRAMBOISE has been living in Montreal, Canada, since graduation, and during that time he has been employed by KLM Royal Dutch Airlines. He was recently named market research manager for Canadian operations. Paul, in his letter, informed me of a dinner cngai;c­mcnt held with Mr. and Mrs. GLEN CIVIDIN. Glen is living in Vancouver and is currently em-employed by a local architectural firm. Also of running into Mr, and Mrs. JACK NEBEL, who were honeymooning in the Province of Quebec. 
TOM BRANNIGAN has accepted a 1st Lt-'s commission in the Judge Advocate General Corps. His active duty began on Jan. 13, 1964, with a nine-week basic training period at Fort Knox, Ky. Tom and Jean were a»*alting the arrival of a first child, expected in March. Tom's roommate DAVE WILLIAMS was also in touch over the Christmas holtdaj's. Da\'e, after receiving his lilBA from the U. of Chicago, b now finishing his active tour of duty in Colorado as a member of the battalion staff at Ft. Corson. TOM CARPENTER recently completed his active tour of duty with the Marines and is now pursuing his master's in busi­ness at the U. of Indiana. TOM ZIPPRICH is stationed in Sasebo, Japan, and is assigned to the USS Surfbird. I received a ver>- Informative letter from TIM O'REILLY. Tim is a supply officer in the Navy, stationed on the XJSS Gainard, a destroyer out of Newport News, R.I. In Oct. of '62 Tim was married to Miss Dorothy Raymond of Atherton, Calif, and in Dec. of '63 the couple had their first child, Patricia Maeve. ANDY LAWLOR has been stationed on the USS Sullivan for the past two years as a communications officer. In April he is scheduled to leave for shore duty in Naples. MIKE BYRD is with the Navy in Japan. Mr. and Mrs. MIKE DUDGEON are on a Na\Y tour of duty in Hawaii. BILL McGIVERN is on a carrier stationed in the Pacific. ROYAL REGAN is tearing up the Island of Japan. JOHN DKSON Is stationed at Ft. Rucker, Ala. and is on the Aviation Test Board as a test pilot. LT. PAUL 
FATH and Lt. BOB JOHNSON arc also at Ft. Rucker In the same testing program. 
KEN KIVIAT is working for the American Sugar Co. in Brooklyn, N.Y. ERIC AVURST is preparing for his bar exam which he will take in June in Washington. NED PERRY is completing his final year of law school at Fordham and is living in New York City with his wife Barbara. BOB FERNS and his wife Butch are now living In Concord, N.H., tvhere Bob Is involved ia the heating, fuel, and hardware business. Last November the couple had their second child. 
Where arc you? JERRY "WHEELS" Mc-NAKURA, DANGEROUS DAN HAGEN. PAT McINTYRE, JOHN TULLY. RAY "CHIEF" VALES, BILL "EARL" SLIFE, TOM SMITH, DICK O'LEARY. and SYLVESTER JOHN AUV-From the Alumni Office: 
Since graduation TOM MAKGKAVE has been up In the air — Feb. '61 to Sept. '6! m physicist at the US Naval Aeronautics in Indianapolis; in Sept. attended Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y. on a scholarship; during tbe summer of '62 was one of six graduate students in the US selected to attend the Space Science Summer Study held at the U. of Iowa under the sponsor­ship of the National Academy of Sciences and NASA; in the fall of '62 completed course work for an MS in astronautics from RPI wfuch he re­ceived in Feb. '63; from Feb. '63 until Aug. '63 ivas employed as a physicist in the Space Environ­ment Div. of the NASA Manned Space Flight Center in Houston, Texas; in Sept. '63 entered the U. of Arizona in Tucson to work towards a PhD in astronomy, this study being financed by a NAS.A Fellowship aivarded by the U. of Arizona; still single and hopes to remain so until he finally ^vraps up his formal schooling. 
DAVE HURD will still be the assistant defensive line coach at ND. 
ERNIE ZAVODNYIK, of the ND Law School, recently spoke on the status of legislation dealing with education for children with hearing difficulties to the Michiana Chapter of the Alexander Graham Bell Assn. at the Hearing and Speech Center of St. Joseph County, Mishawaka, Ind. 
PHIL SCHUSTER has been appointed a repre­sentative of the Conn. Mutual lif e Ins. Co. in Chicago after getting his KIBA in insurance from the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce. 
GEORGE LESNIK is asst. buyer for Abraham & Straus in Brooklyn. 
We received constructive critiosm of the ALUM* NUS from DICK DISTEL. He suggested, among other things, more human interest stories. We de­pend on the alumni to send us these human interest stories about themselves or other almnnL 
BOB WEBER, after three years delay to go to law school, has been ordered to active duty in the Army. He received his degree from Northwestern Law School in January, passed the Illinois bar exam in March and was sworn in later in the month. He t^II be going to Ft. Benning for in­fantry officers' training after which he will go to Ft. Holabird, Md., for intcUigence officers' train­ing. 
JERRY COLLIGAN Is working toward a doc­torate in electrical engineering (third year) at the 
U. of Michigan. 
CARL ADLER received a National Science Foundation physics fellowship for the summer of '64 and was assigned as a Notre Dame graduate teaching asst. 
RANK MERRY is an ensign in the Naval En­gineer Corps and has been doing quite a bit of traveling around the world — from Calif, to Ant­arctica, R.I., Bermuda, R.I., San Francisco, Hono­lulu, Pago Pago, Samoa, Christcburch, New Zea­land, then to Antarctica. All of this since Oct. 26, 1962. 
JERRY KINNE.\VY MA '61 has received an asst. professorship at the U. of Dayton English dcpt. 
TOM SHAFFER LLB '61, asst. proL of law at ND, opened a series of of lectures and panel dis­cussions on the general topic "Freedom in Educa­tion — USA" sponsored by the South Bend Chap­ter of Citizens for Educational Freedom. Tom spoke on "Public Supported Fringe Benefits of Private Schools." 

'A1 ^°^ ^' ^^'^'^^^ 
Asastant County Attorney 
Law WapcOo Comity Conit Honse Ottumwa, Iowa 

Law Class of 1961: 
A letter fom TOM CLU5SERATH dated De­cember 18, 1963, announces hts marriage in Wash­ington, B.C., on the 22nd of June, 1963, to Miss Kaye Rigby, attended by TIGER BIES: "KIu" is still with the SEC in Washington and is assistant to Byron D . Woodside, one of the Commissioners. His address Is 301 G St., S.W., Apartment 506, ZIP Code 20024. 
My appeal for mail brought a lengthy letter from PAUL COFFEY with the following nevrs: FRANK HORVATH was married in June of 1963 and is living In Lorain, Ohio, and In general practice. RUSTY BYRNE is a Marine Corps legal officer stationed at Okinawa. DICK LARK is an Air Force pilot and is about to finuh his tour of duty. JACK MARTZELL and wife Veronica recently became parents of a son. The "GASHER" himself and Beth Young (St. Mary's 1960) were married j ^ proximately two years »so. They have a son, John B., bom June 4, 1963. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June*Jufy, 1964 69 
I spent a very pleasant evening In Chicago ap­proximately two weeks ago at the home of Annie and MASON SULLIVAN in company with JOHN DUNN and wife Barb, and also JOHN PLATT­NER, who had just completed taking the Illinois bar exam, after being discharged from the ser\-ice. 
Yours truly has recently entered into a partner­
ship with Charles Bookin of this city ^s'tth oflices 
at 211/2 E. Main St. 
The next news deadline is June I, 1964^, and I would appreciate hearing from more of you in the near future. 
Paul K. Rooney '62 162 Arlo Rd. Statcn Island 1, N.Y. 
Ahoy maties! Some news from the crowVncst. 
Lt. BOB KELLEY writes from Baumholder, Ger­
many, that it's a small world as he has seen BILL 

FORD, JIM MIKACICH, JACK GAGNON, DAVE 
BOUTON, and a football placing MP, FRAN 
GRAU; Bob and Jim live only 10 mi. apart. 
Our belated wedding congratulations to BILL 

BOLT and avife Diana of Ft. Hood; and Joyce and 
TED MIDDENDORF (MBA III.) of Panorama, 
Calif. Further congratulations to Barbara and 
DAVE SCALISE (MBA Mich.) on the birth of 
Theresa Marie; to Mary and ANDY BURD and 
their son Christopher; to Sheila and JOE BA­
ROODY and their Monica Jean down in Puerto 
Rico; and also to Karen and Lt. JOHN KEEN.\ 
and their new daughter Julie. (John would like 
to hear from old buddies TOSI, DELLING, 
PRAIRIE and HANLEY, address him at Parris 
Island.) Lt. CHUCK FAILLO has just checked in 
at Camp Pendleton. JOE Z.-\NG.ARI is married and 
working in Meridcn, Mass. Both LEE TADDONIO 
and BILL BINE received their MBA's from Pitt; 
best wishes to Lee and his wife, the former Barbara 
Dedreck, on their wedding .Apr. 23. 
Area rep MIKE BISHKO combines la%v studies 

and the asst. fencing coach job at ND successfully, 
as the team u-as 14-2. Mike reports that: ^^^LLIE 
HUBER is in the Medical Corps, USN; PETE 
DUFFY is ^vorking in advertising with J. C. Penney 
Co. in N.Y.C.; PAUL BUTRUS plans to attend 
Columbia Law School; DON TIM and PAUL SICA 
are studying at Jefferson Med. School in Phila­
delphia; GEORGE HOENIG is in graduate theology-
at Fordham; BILL IR\^IN is married (congratula­
tions) and studying English at Hari'ard; TOM 
BERANEK is in Korea; LARRV BUNCHEK is a 
representative of Libert>- Mutual in St- Louis; and 
BILL BALLARD is attending Louisville Law School. 
JACK FORREST is at Dou-nstate >fedical School 

and is engaged to Ginney Darling, a Columbia 
junior. Jack reports that GERRY QUINN married 
Diane Balconis Mar. 30 in Palm Beach; congratula­
uons also to MIKE WOODS and Mar>- Betz on 
their wedding last .\ugust; to ^farsha and PAT 
HUGHES on the birth of little Ellen; and to RAY 
SHEA, who is marrying Rita Morcll this June. 
We received a letter from rep JOE BRACCO, a law student at USF in Frisco: MIKE IRIBARNE is working toward his doctorate in SlaWc studies at Stanford; TONY BILL is presently appearing in "Soldier in the Rain"; JOE IRWIN and LINZIE KRAMER are battling the law books, Joe is at Boalt Hall and Unzie is at Hastings College; MIKE PRECOBB is with Shell Oil in Palo Alto; JOHN TIDGEWELL is presently an engineer for the Calif. Highway Dept. Navy ships are the stations of many alumni as PETE VIEIRA is aboard the USS Preston; LARRY SOLETTI is aboard the USS Zelema; JIM GRENTR is on the USS Guadalupe; and DAVE ^VFrCHGER is aboard the USS Providence. 
Congratulations to Class Pres. E.4RL LINEHAN and his bride of Apr. 4, the former Darielle Dunn; Earl is employed by Arthur Anderson in Chicago, where a fellow employee is RICH NUGENT. Mau­reen and DANA HAYES are still celebrating the birth of their son on Feb. 28; JIM SALMON is with Westinghouse in Elmira, N.Y.; BUCKY O'CONNOR is with a bank in Newark, N.J.; MIKE HARRON is in flight school at Pensacola; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MACHECA are living in Washington, where John is with the State Dept. Sandie and TERRY McCARTHY will be in New­port in midsummer while I attend dental officers' school. 
CLASS BULLETINS: Take note, our class reunion is after the UCLA game Oct. 17, 19W in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn. Unfortunately poor publicity and bad weather kept the reunion after the Navy game to 75 classmates. Remember, thb column depends on you so keep your reps in­formed or write me. Ens. TERRY McCARTHY USNR. 
70 Notre Dame Alumnus^ June-July, 1964 
From the Alumni Office: 
DAVE MENZIE is living in Oak Park, 111., and 

working for Employers' Group Ins. Co. 
JOE PERKOWSKI's field goal that won the ND-

Syracuse game in '61 xv-as rehashed in the NY 
Times last November before the latest Syracuse 
game and Joe's picture in number 38 uniform 
was printed. 
Lt. GREG RISCH likes US.-\F life and his im­

portant and responsible position as missile officer 
• at Cape Kennedy, Fla. BOB KORYCKI is a claims examiner for the Social Security Administration. 
The following came from SE.^N FOOHEY: "Since graduation I have been working for the Research Anal>-sis Corp., now located in McLean, Va. It is a non-profit operations research company deal­ing with Army problems. The job has taken me to Germany where I ran into J.ACK GAGNON in Kaiserslautcrn. He had just arrived fom a tour in France. I met JOHN LANG in London. He is stationed at Harrogate, England. I met LARRY PAUL on a trip to Ft. Knox, Ky. in March . -. if possible let me have any information about PAUL LaLIBERTE, as I saw him in church one Sunday in Annandale but was unable to reach him after Mass. JOHN BEALL was home on leave from the Na\-y recently. After one more vo>*age he plans to go to law school. My best to all of the Class of '62 and good luck for a better football team." Paul's address is 2915 E. 1st St., Duluth, Minn. Sean is living in Annandale, Va. 
P.AUL BELDEN III, sales representative for the 

Beldcn Brick Co., Canton, Ohio, was one of seven­
teen graduates in Washington, D.C., of the '64 
sales engineer training course of the Structural Clay 
Products Institute, the national assn. of manu­
facturers of brick and tile. 
WSBT Sports Director DON CRIQUI, with a 

little help, gave play-by-play coverage of 19G4's 
Hoosier Hysteria. Don's picture wxis on the front 
of the South Bend Tribune's TV Magazine. 
TON'Y BILL is still making newsprint. The 

Chicago Tribune had a quarter page coverage of 
picture and story on Tony's return visit to ND 
in Februar>*. It also told of his three-day siege 
of Holl>^vood when the walls came tumbling down 
for him. After his picture, "Tlie Greatest Job 
in the AVorld," finishes in Rome this summer, 
Tony plans to join his former art professor at ND, 
Robert Leader, for a trip to Eg>-pt. The professor 
\%'ill photograph some of the wonders that will be 
under water when the Aswan dam is completed. 
BOB BARTHOLOMEW will receive his MFA 

in industrial design from Michigan State U. in 
June, He plans to go on for his PhD in Art HIs­
torv- at Ohio State U. this fall. 
GEORGE 5EFCIK is staying at ND as our 

freshman football coach. 
2 Lt. JOHN PUGLIESE is stationed at Schwein­

furt, Germany, and lives off the post with his wife 
Karen. On leaves he has \*islted London and the 
Benelux countries. His platoon won the battle group 
competition and were awarded a trip to West 
and East Berlin with their wives. 
Lt. VINCE .MICUCCI received the ph>-sical fit­ness leadership award from the Plattsburgh (Miss.) 
FRANK M. FLANAGAN '63. ainnan at Lackland AFB, Tex., receives the American Spirit Honor Medal and certificate at a re­cent ceremony during basic training, award­ed for leadership in the American spirit — honor, initiative, loyalty and high example. Frank is a communication arts grad (torn Michigan City, Ind. 
Jaycees. Vtnce was the sole organizer and super­\-isor of all youth actiritles at the Plattsburgh AFB during '63. ^ ­
BOB PO^VRIE is mfg. process engineer at thV' Louis\ille assembly plant of Ford Motor Co. 
DAVE AMBERG, of Montlcello, Ind., was re­cently promoted to 1st Lt. while ser\*ing with the US.\ at Ft. Richardson, Alaska. He is shop officer of an ordnance company in the Support Command. The Support Command is responsible for main­taining an effective logistics and main maintenance program for the Army in Alaska. 
2/Lt. DICK MEECE completed a nine-week officers course at the USA Adjutant General School, Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Ind., on March 7. He re­ceived instruction In the basic functions and prin­ciples of the Army's administrative field. Before joining the Army, he was employed by the Ameri­can Trucking Assn, Washington, D.C. ^ 
A/3c LES BOUDREAUX of New Orleans, has been named honor grad of the USAF course for supply specialists at Amarlllo AFB, Texas. He was trained in the use of supply publications and mechanized accounting procedures used in Air Force supply actinties and has been assigned to a unit of the Louisiana Air National Guard in his home town. 
GREG RISCH was recently promoted to I/Lt. in the USAF and is a missile launch officer in the Minuteman Weapons Div. at Patrick AFB, Fla. 
MIKE McADAMS was commissioned a 2/Lt. in the USAF upon graduation from Officer Training School at Lackland AFB, Tex., and was sent to Amarillo AFB, Tex., for training as a suppl]^ officer. ^ 
USAF I/Lt. TOM NOON.AN is a data systems and statistics officer assigned to Hq., MIddletown Air Material Area at Olmsted AFB, Pa. 
2/Lt. JIM NOWAK received his silver wings and will be flying B-52 aircraft out of Mather AFB. Calif. 2/Lt. CHARLES AUGUSTINE also received his wings and will be at K. I. Saw>'cr AFB, ^flch., flying the KC-I35 aircraft. 
GARY HORDEMANN received a National Sdcnce Foundation mechanical engineering fellowship for the summer of '6i and was assigned as a Notre Dame graduate teaching asst. 
MIKE COLLINS MA '61 has joined the faculty of Mt. St. Mar>-'s College, Emmitsburg, Md., for the spring semester as an instructor in sociolog>*. He had previously taught in the school system of Saginaw, Mich., and recently held the position o L superv'isor at the USO Lounge in Washington, D.C^ ^ 
JOE BIRlillNGHAM LLB '62 is working for Chase Manhattan Bank. 
2/Lt. LEE TADDONIO completed an eight-week basic medical service corps officer course at the Medical Field Service School, Brooke Army Medical Center, Ft. Sam Houston, Tex., late last November. 
'A2 ?^"^_^- Rooney 
700 Victory Blvd. Law Statcn Island, L.I., N.Y. 

Anyone who wants to take JLM DOOLEY's "C'mon down" ad%ice can say hello to JOH^ ^ DELL, who recently became a member of the BmM­of Miller, Cone, Owen, Wagner, and Nugent. Latter has offices in West Palm Beach and in Rockledgc (Cocoa), Fla. 
Last year GEORGE PELLETIER received his 

LL.M from Harvard and in September joined up with Uncle Sam (JAGC) as a 1st Lt. He is now stationed at the U. of Virginia in Charlottesville, where he is a member of the staff and faculty*. 
George reports that MIKE PHENNER and PAT CROOKS ('63) were with him at Fort Benning for infantry training prior to their J.AGC assignments and that both are stationed in Washington, D.C. Mike took time out from his appellate court work to fly out to Chicago to take in a gallant rendition of **Swan Song" from the Baclielor's Opera by GEORGE McANDREWS, married April 11. A / 
Understand that TOM KELLY and GEORGE^ "ERNIE" VANDER VENNET are both practidng law with the First National Bank of Chicago. 
JIM HARRINGTON has returned to the Big Apple and now resides a block au-ay on Statcn Island. When last seen he and Kathy \vere awaiting the April hour of a little Harrington. 
Beu-are the Ides of June. Latter marks BOB VEVERKA's farewell to Army life; cirilization awaits without. 
Multiplication Is the name of the game; only two can play. JIM GOETHALS and Sophie, BILL SCHRIGER and Caroline (who recently moved to join » law firm in Rockford, HI.) and yours truly and Marge are expecting second editions In June. Anyone else? 
Frank P. DiccUo '63 218 Palmer HOI Rd. Old Greenwich, Conn. 

>> 
While much has been reported in past issues about our classmates who are spread across the globe, for some reason or other I have neglected to mention many of our classmates who have returned to XD. Often seen In the Law Scliool library are TOM PETERSON, RON VETTEL, PHIL RUDDY, BILL SANNE.MAN, MIKE ROCHE. BOB SCHMIEGE, JIM ANTHONY, WALT TERRY, TOM HULL, JIM MURRAY, RAY STARMANN. TOM HARVEY, FRED MORELLI, SCOTTY MAXWELL and TOM GRIFFIN. Among those back in the graduate school are BRIAN BOULAC, PHIL RYAN, RALPH PASTORE and ED HACK­
^TT . DAVE VAN TREESE and BILL WELLES 
^Kc teaching in South Bend this year. Bill was recently married in Cleveland. MIKE BURKE and "jolly" JIM BACHNLANN have completed their practice teaching and will receive MAT degrees In August. 
PHIL RUDDY reports that he attended the wed­, ding of OZZIE McCONATHY to Jennifer Davey In ; Chicago on Dec. 30. Ozzle is presently employed \ by the Santa Fe Railroad and is taking courses at ' Northwestern for his master's In English. Present 
at the ^vcdding ^verc PAUL DONO\'AN, MAU­RICE CALLAHAN, TOM CASSIDY and TOM MURPHY. 
.\lso married recently were NICK VUCICH to . -rilnda Wainwrighi of Elkhart, and TED GIATTINA 
yR) Mar>' Ellen Conboy of Chicago. Nick is working for Vicks Co. in Peoria, 111. and Ted is attending .Alabama Law Scliool. 
BOYD GEORGE was recently on campus for a short visit. Boyd is at Virginia Law School along with REGIS CANFIELD and J.\N TABAKA. Also dropping by to say hello on their way to 
i active duty with the Army were CHUCK HART­MAN, TO.M FABISH and TOM BISHOP. Chuck will be stationed at Fort Lewis, Wash., after he completes school with the Chemical Corps. Tom Fablsh had just completed .Armor school at Fort Knox and w*as on his way to Germany. 
Word has It that DICK K.AV.\NAUGH has been offered a grant for another year of study at the London Academy of Arts and a grant from Yale. There has been no word as yet as to where he will 
^be next year. ^JAC K O'CONNELL writes from New York that he is working for the .\FL-CIO In their National Community Services Office. He is working on the school dropout problem and Its relation to organized labor. Jack \^'as married in the fall to a nurse from his home town, Holyoke. ^fass. 
From the U. of Pcnn.. MIKE DELMONTE \ writes that he has seen SKIP KAISER and BOB t MOILAN. Both Skip and Bob are working for I MBA's at Penn. 
> Heading the Ibt of engagement announcements is that of TOM JOLIE to the beautiful and gracious Judy Lamping of Park Ridge. Tliey will be married in late August. Tom has recently entered tile business world and Is working as a salesman In the 
<^:??hIcago area. 
^ We were happy to learn of the engagement of our Detroit area representative, TERRY DES­.MOND, to Mar>* Elizabeth Brcen. They are plan­ning to be married on July 4 In a campus wedding. Terry, JACK HILDEBR.AND, BOB GESELL, and RAY BONANNO have been working with the Detroit ND Club of the .Mumnt Assn. in an organi­zational campaign to further Interest in the Club. 
' Terry's letter abo Included the announcement of the 
^ engagement of MATTHEW K. MURPHY to 
1 Theresa Zamonskl. % BILL COOPER is engaged to Paulette Reld, a 
' junior at Geneva College. Bill is working for a funeral home In Mobile, .Ala. 
JOHN D.ABROWSKI, who Is studying at Yale, ^vrites that he often sees BILL HARDIG, BOB jOtLEIN, BOB METZGER, BOB BARTOLO and DOUG CANFIELD in his wanderings about 
campus. 
WALLACE BERKOWITZ is attending Boston U. Medical School. His address Is 1692 Washington St., Boston, Mass. 
HARVEY KELSALL and FRANK DE SANTIS are back at ND. Harvey is studying sociology and Frank is in the MAT program. Frank is engaged and will be married on August 22. 
Former SBP KEVIN HART has asked me to announce to the world that he has left the teaching profession and has entered the Harvard graduate school. Kevin is studying psychology and plans to return to the ND campus In June for the gradua­tion of his brother 
JOSEPH W. SYNAN, soph engineer from Zancsville, O. (center), receives a Western Electric Fund scholarship award from George Walcher (left) of the Indianapolis plant and Thomas Burch of the firm's Chicago office. 
Fioin the Alumni Office: CHARLES LOVAS received a National Science Foundation mechanical engineering fellowship for the summer of 'G4 and was assigned as a Notre Dame graduate teaching asst. WILLIS FRY is presently employed as an ad­ministrative asst. at Presbyterian-St. Luke's Hospi­tal in Chicago and is planning to return to school in the fall. L.ARRY NIKLAS Is married and has bought his own home at 3163 Lookout Circle, Cincinnati 8, Ohio. CHUCK SCHAFFLER has joined the Trane Company's Memphis sales office as a sales engineer. He spent six glorious months in Northern Wisconsin training for the job. He b living at 4216 Central Rd., Memphis 17, Tenn. MIKE E. MURRAY has received a >Voodrow Wilson National Fellowship at the U. of Texas where he Is studying for a teaching career and taking philosophy. TO.M CONROY is a trainee in the International dept. of the Chase Manhattan Bank. DAVE W.ALLEN Is with the US Bureau of Public Roads, Dept. of the Interior, in Roanoke, Va. FRANK MARTELLO was married in February and is now living in Clinton, N.Y. WALT HEENEY is with Billboard Publlshing's Chicago office. Billboard is the entertainment in­dustries magazine. Army 2/Lt. JIM TRACY completed his orienta­tion course at the .Army Infanlr>' School, Ft. Benning, Ga., March 10. 2/Ll. STEVE KILSKI completed his orientation course at the Army Transportation School, Ft. Eustis, Va., Jan. 31. 2/Lt. JOHN MEYERS is asst. exec, officer of a batter>- of the 1st Infantry DIv. at Ft. Riley, Kan,, OS of Dec. 10. 2/Lt. BOB MARTIN completed his orientation course at the Army Air Defense School, Ft. Bliss, Tex., Feb. 6. 2/Lt. AUSTIN DOYLE completed his eight-week basic medical ser\-icc corps officer course at the Medical Field Ser\ice School, Brooke Army Medical Center, Ft. Sam Houston, Tex., late in November. 2/Lts. BRUCE THILL and JOE HICKEY com­pleted their orientation courses at the Army Chemi­cal Center, Ft. McClellan, Ala., Dec. 6. Also at Ft. McClellan 2/Lt. DICK FOLEY completed a four-week chemical, biological and radiological of­ficer course, March II. 2/Lt. BOB MENSIK was assigned to Davis-Monthan AFB after graduation from the US.AF course for supply officers. 2/Lt. JIM NOTTOLI has advanced to the supersonic jet T-3 Talon, fastest and most modern trainer aircraft In his US.AF training and will receive his wings this coming summer at Vance .AFB, Okla. 2/Lt. TOM ZONE has entered US.AF pilot train­ing at Williams AFB, Ariz. Lt. BOB IRVINE Is missile launch officer at Whiteman AFB, Mo., just three houri from his home town. He is starting his master's In Industrial management In Sep­tember while on duty. Lt. JIM BEST Is in pilot training at Moody AFB in Valdosta, Ga. He and his wife like the Air Force life — particularly with commbsary and PX prices. Lt. DAVE SHIVELL is a physicist 
at Newark AF Station, Ohio, and is working witL autonetic computers. 
Lt. JOHN COSTELLO is a Nuclear Research Officer at Air Force Weapons Laboratory, N.&I. He started a Master's Program in Nuclear Engi­neering at the U. of N.M. in the spring semester. Lt. HARRY RUTEMILLER works on a hush-hush project in Washington, D.C. as aa Aero Engineer 
— specifically, design and development and Is now enrolled at the George Washington U. working on his master's In engineering administration. 
2/Lt. ED MARCATO is now flying alone in a T-33 jet trainer at Laughlin AFB, Texas. At Lack­land AFB, Tex., Airman FRANK FLANAGAN received the American Spirit Honor Medal and certificate during a recent ceremony there. Frank w*as selected for the award as the airman who best demonstrated the qualities of leadership which express the American spirit — honor, initiative, loyalty and high example to comrades-in-arms. He was undergoing basic military training at the time of the award. FRANK WILSON has received his commission as a 2/Lt. at Lackland. He has been reassigned to AmarlUo AFB, Texas, for training as a supply officer. Also at Lackland, 2/Lt. JON BIGSBY received a commission upon graduation from OTS and has been reassigned to Lowry AFB, Colo., for training as an intelligence officer. HAROLD VOGEL was made a 2/Lt. and then sent to Craig AFB, Ala., for pilot training. 
ED GOELLNER MS '63, chemistry instructor at Lake Charles High School, Lake Charles, La., who devoted five years to teaching modem sciences in the Roman Catholic missionary schools of Africa, has been awarded a Shell Merit Fellowship for advanced study this summer at Stanford U., Stan­ford, CaliL 
•jL ) Classen Granun ^^ 9W/2 Tenth Ave. Law Port Huron, Mich. 

Cincinnati has become an active town for ND law>-ers in recent months. JIM GOULD '62, repre­senting a Grand Rapids, Mich., firm, was seen dashing into the SLxth Circuit Court of Appeals during the December session of court. His sprint to the finish line was necessitated by a late train which arrived three hours behind schedule, giving Jim barely enough time to make It to court in time to argue. 
Also arguing before the Sixth Circuit (February session) was AL ALTERI, '58, who preceded me OS law clerk to Judge 0'Sulli\'an. For AI it was something of a homecoming since he clerked here three years before leaving to practice law in Detroit. 
Law '63's only native Cinclnnatian, ED AD.4MS, was In town briefly during February. Ed was on leave from the Army prior to taking off for Kassel, Germany, where he is in charge of a Hawk missile unit. Ed and Mary Lou, Incidentally, are the parents of a delightful little girl. Not to be left behind, I hear that the DAVE HOSINSKIS hod a boy, the CHUCK GRIFFINS a girl, and the BOB NOES a boy. On the marriage scene, the route to the altar was taken by both JIM LEKIN (marry­ing Sandy Prince) and STEVE BOWER (Karen Kovach). CHICK McERLEAN and Jean have been Mr. and Mrs. for a few months now, and I hear that ED FILLENWARTH is about ready to take the plunge too—any truth to it, Ed? 
Our corporate contingent In Chicago continues to grow. Along with FRANK DUD.A (Chicago Title and Trust Co.) we now have JIM SEARCY» DAVE HOSLNSKI and MIKE FELDMIER with the Continental Illinois Bank and Trust. Back in Michigan. TONY CALDERONE has opened his own office In Battle Creek. I'm sure Tony will have no trouble keeping his clients satisfied. One taste of a Calderone spaghetti dinner and they will have no complaints. 
Latest box score on bar results—the unofficial count is 38 passages out of 43 tries, with the fatali­ties coming in Illinois (two). New York, California and Indiana (one each). Next Column: The Western scene. 
•jL^ Warren G. Stephens 
* " 205 Alameda . Bchnont, Calif. 

From the Alumni Office: CHARLES W. BLANCHARD of Cleveland, a June grad who majored in economics, has asked us to announce that he's had a tough time trying to find a position and wonders if an ND man is looking for help In any kind of business administra-. tion position. Chuck captained the swimming team In his senior year. Chuck lives at 1147 Richmond Road, Lyndhurst, Ohio. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, June-July, 1964 71 
Office of the President, University of Notre Danne Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alumni: It is witli a deep sense of humilit)' tliat I take tliis, my first opportunity, to communicate with you as your President for die year 1964. 
My fellow officers, Peter J. Keman '49, Albert D. CastelHni '24, and Timothy J. Toomey '30, join me in the feeling that we are particularly fortunate to come to the helm at a time when the Alumni Association is enjoying its peak in activity and effectiveness. 
AVe have just been privileged to witness the dedication of the Memorial Librarj', the cuhnination of Challenge I. This awe-inspiring edifice is vivid evidence of tlie national alumni giving records of 80% participation and $344.69 average gift which we achieved during Challenge I. 
Your Alumni Board in Februar)', at the first reunion of die fomier members of die Board of Directors ever held, was given the opportunity to be present at the announcement of the Challenge II Program. In recognition of our achievement in the past, the Universit)' has assigned us a task of financing the proposed Athletic and Convocation Center. This is the principal building planned for the new Challenge II Program. All alumni gifts not otherwise restricted will be applied to building this magnificent new facilitj'. No one, except pos­sibly the current students, is more keenly aware of our needs for a new indoor athletic arena and field house than our alumni. Your Alumni Board, through its Athletic Committee, has kept in close touch with the planning of this building and I can assure you when completed it will be something of which we each can be proud. 
May I urge you to give a second tliought to your gift or pledge to insure the success of this alumni project It was with a keen sense of loss tiiat we bade farewell to Johnny Jordan, our varsity basket­ball coach for so many years, ^\'e wish John all the best tilings of life in his future endeavors. 
AVe are all pleased to welcome our long-time friend and fellow alumnus Johnny Dee as our new basketball coach. We know that he will carrj' on the fine traditions we have come to expect and will carry us forward to new highs. From personal observation I can tell you tiiat our other new coach, Ara Parseghian, has assembled an outstanding staff of assistants and has just concluded a successful spring practice with a 30-to-23 victory over a star-studded Old-Timers team. AVe can all assist Coach Parseghian and his staff by not expecting them to move mountains in their first season. 
Warmest regards to all of you and a note of appreciation to the recently retired Vice-Presi­dents of our Association, Patrick A. Doughert)' '50, John P. Dempsey '49 and 'William H. Fallon '37 for the tremendous enthusiasm and leadership they provided us these past three years, and to OUie Hunter, who remains on tiie Board this year as Honorary President. 
Sincerely, 
Philip J. Faccenda President 









