The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


NOTRE DAME CLUB FOOTBALL RALLIES 
Widi die opening of another football season, the Alumnus is glad to make special note of football rallies scheduled by Notre Dame clubs in connection widi the Notre Dame games. All essential informa­tion about die rallies as supplied by the clubs concerned is listed below, and all alumni and their friends attending the various games are warmly urged to participate in diese Notre Dame parties. 
Too early for inclusion in this Alumnus were the dance of the St. Joseph Valley Club in Soudi Bend on Sept. 23 in connection with the Indiana game and in conjunction with local Indiana University alumni club, and the rally of the Western Washington Club in Seattle on Sept. 30 in connection with die Wash­ington game. 
Lafayette, Ind., Friday, Oct. 7, 8 P. M. 
Occasion: Purdue-Notre Dame game Place: St. Boniface school hall, North Ninth St Price: $3.00 per person at the door to cover food and re­
freshments Program: General get-together for alumni and their friends 
South Bend, Ind., Friday, Oct. 14, 8. P. M. 
Occasion: Tulane-Notre Dame game Place: Oliver Hotel Price: $1.00 per person at the door Program: General get-together (stag) for alumni. and their 
friends. Football movies, short talks. Refreshments avail­
able. 
.^ 

Baltimore, Md.. Friday, Oct. 28, 8 P. M. 
Occasion: Navy-Notre Dame game Place: Emerson Hotel Price: $3.00 per person (Proceeds to Notre Dame Foundation 
for new Science Building) Beserrations, -with checks, to: Frank A. O'Connell, 1351 Pent-wood Road, Baltimore 12. Program: Notre Dame movies, short talks, entertainment, danc­ing. Refreshments available. (A club-sponsored cocktail party, also in the Emerson Hotel, will follow the game on Saturday, Oct. 29. All alumni and their friends are invited) 
.^ 

Washinfirton, D. C , Friday, Oct. 28, 8:30 P. M. 
Occasion: Navy-Notre Dame game Place: Washington Hotel, Peimsylvania Ave. at 15th St., N.W. Price: $2.50 per person. (Proceeds to Notre Dame Foundation 
for new Science Building) Reserrotions. with checks, to: Notre Dame Club of Washing­ton, D. C, 1740 K St., N.W. Program: Short talks, entertainment and dancing. Refresh­ments available. 
New York City, Friday, Nov. 11, 8:30 P. M. 
Occasion: North Corolina-Notre Dame game Place: Hotel Biltmore, adjacent to Grand Central Terminal Price: $6.00 per person Reservations, with checks, to: John A. Hoyt, Jr., Room 620, 
342 Madison Ave., New York City 17. Program: Short talks, entertainment and dancing. Refresh­ments available. (The New York.Club will have Notre Dame headquarters at the Hotel Biltmore over the weekend and cordially in­vites all alimini to register there. A club-sponsored recep­tion in the New York Athletic Club will follow the game on Saturday, Nov. 12. All alumni and their friends are invited to it) 
J^ 


South Bend. Ind.. Friday. Nov. 18, 8 P. M. 
Occasion: lowa-Notre Dame game Place: Oliver Hotel Price: $1.00 per person at the door Program: General get-together (stag) for alumni and their 
friends. Football movies, short talks. Refreshments avail­able. 
J^ 

South Bend, Ind., Friday, Nov. 25, 8 P. M. 
Occasion: Southern Califomia-Notre Dame game Place: Oliver Hotel Price: $1.00 per person at the door Program: General get-together (stag) for alumni and their 
friends. Football movies, short talks. Refreshments avail­able. 
J^ 


Dallas, Texas, Friday, Dec. 2. 8 P. M. 
Occasion: Southern Methodist-Notre Dame game Place: Baker Hotel Price: $3.30 per person Reservations, with checks, to: Mrs. Mary Stapleton, 4223 Shen­
andoah, Dallas 5. Program: Short talks, entertainment, dancing. Refreshments available. 
school, Cambridge, Mass., instructor in busi­ness administration; Marshall W. Baldwin, New York university. New York city, asso­ciate professor of histoiy; Edward J. Blakely, Jr., University of Denver, Denver, Colo., in­structor in accounting; William' M. Burke, Georgian Court college, Lakewood, N. J., associate professor of English; Edward J. Cronin, (N. D., '38) St. Thomas Military academy, St. Paul, Minn., assistant professor of English; Vincent P. DcSantis, Johns Hop­kins University, Baltimore, Md., associate professor of history. 
Also Jerome A. Fallon, Holt High school. Holt, Mich., instructor in speech; John P. Fandcl, Jr., who received a master's degree from Yale university. New Haven, Conn., this year, instructor in English; John J. Glanville, (Mj^.., N. D., '47) Pontifical In­stitute of Mediaeval Studies in Toronto, Quebec, Canada, instructor in philosophy; Vincent P. Goddard, who for two years has been a teaching fellow at Notre Dame, in­structor in aeronautical engineering; Wil­liam J. Grupp, Cornell university, Ithaca, 
N. Y., instructbr in modem languages; Rev. PhiUp L. Hanley, O.P., (M.A., N. D., '49), who for the last year has been a teaching fellow at Notre Dame, instructor in religion; Murlin T. Howerton, Texas A. & M, College Station, Texas, professor of chemical engi­neering. 

Also Robert L. Livezey, director of biology at Sam Houston State college, Austin, Texas, assistant professor of biology; Bernard S. Le­ment, Massachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy, Cambridge, Mass., assistant professor of metallurgy; John P. Marshall, former research associate at Notre Dame, instructor 

Students Overflow Campus 
With an enrollment that again ap­proached the five-thousand mark and again means doubled-up quarters on the campus and many students residing oif-campus, the University opened its new schoolyear on Sept. 15, after carrying on registration for the three days preceding. 
As the ALUMNUS went to press, the final figures on registration were not available. It was certain that there were at least 4,850 students in the University, and probably 
. about 4,900. In keeping with the trend of recent years, a considerable number of these were in the Graduate School. Approximate­ly a third of the present students are vet­erans of World War II, as contrasted with the 50 per cent who were veterans a year ago and the 74 per cent who were veterans in September, 1946. A large graduating class in January, 1950, will further reduce the current veteran enrollment. 
Utilizing the simplified and coordinated procedure of a year ago, supervised by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of academic affairs, and his assistant. Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., the registra­tion for 1949-50 was carried on in the Drill Hall. International Business Machines equipment, now widely used by the Univer­sity for various academic needs and business needs, faciliated the work of the scores of faculty members and others who assisted Father Kenna and Father Norton on Sept. 12, 13 and 14. All students had identifica­tion pictures taken as a part of the registra­tion program. 
New students—some 1,300—registered on Monday, Sept. 12, and then devoted much of Tuesday and Wednesday to tests given under the direction of Edward R. Quinn, '28, head of the Guidance and Testing De­partment. Six tests were given: for scholastic aptitude, for achievement in English, social science, natural science and mathematics, and for religious placement. Results of these tests will later be made known individually to the students who took them and the same results are available for the study of faculty members concerned with them. In the De­partment of Religion the students are "sectioned" according to results of the re­ligious placement test, which is, it is im­portant to note, the work of Rev. William 
F. Cunningham, C.S.C., director of the fac­ulty, and long a nationally-recognized expert in educational matters. 
In the same battery of tests a year ago, the incoming Notre Dame students achieved a ranking 14 points above the national aver­age for the same tests in many colleges. 
The orientation program for the freshmen, at the transportation terminals in South Bend, information desks on the campus, tours of the campus for freshmen and their families and a Washington Hall program complete with talks and movies, formed a part of the introduction period. Orientation week was completed on Saturday afternoon with a cheer-learning session in the gym, preceding a varsity football scrimmage in the stadium. 
An innovation this year was the new plan for the student missions. In other years, the missions for the student body were each con­ducted for almost a week at the beginning of the schoolyear. This year, the freshman mission began on Wednesday evening, Sept. 14, even before the opening of classes on Thursday morning, Sept. 15, and continued on Sept. 15 and 16. The mission for sopho­mores was Sept. 18, 19 and 20, and that for juniors, seniors and graduate students on Sept. 21, 22 and 23. 
Thirty-three new members are part of the Notre Dame faculty for the present year according to Father Kenna's announcement. 
New additions and their latest previous teaching affiliations include Jack D. Alex­ander, (N. D., '47) who received a master's degree this year from the Harvard Business 
f,'.~-'z~ -..'•'.•.'•.:«""''•-:,"""inr-,-——«iP5?^ 
conducted a year ago by the Blue Circle Students get their rooms in order as the new schoolyear opens. Leit to right or* David and the Young Christian Students, was K. Yerex. Lower Hutt, New' Zealand: AUonso Getnaco. son oi John F. Gotuaco. '24. successfully re-emphasized this year. Guides Manila, P. L: S. C. Gnpla. BeagaL India. 
in physics; Charles F. McGinnis, Boston college, Boston, Mass., instructor in English. 
Also Herbert Melton, (N. D., '43), former teaching fellow at Notre Dame, instructor in accounting; Rev. Francis D. Nealy, O.P., (M..\., N. D., '48), former teaching fellow at Notre Dame, instructor in religion. 
Matthew R. O'Rourke, Rutgers univer­sity. New Brunswick, N. J., instructor in English; Arthur W. Phillips, (N. D., '39), Massachusetts Institute of Technolog)', assistant research professor of bacterioIog>-; William G. Philp, University of Oklahoma, Norman, assistant professor of business ad­ministration; Raymond J. Runkle, Univcr­sit)' of Illinois, Champaign, instructor in physical education; Edward W. Sybil, Jr., University of Iowa, Iowa Cit)', assistant pro­fessor of biology; Richard L. "Kilmer, (N.D., '43), former member of the Notre Dame faculty, instructor in history. 
Also John H. O'Neill, formerly with the Western Electric company, assistant pro­fessor of education; Robert F. Chipak, Penn­syK-ania State college. State College, Pa., instructor in mechanical engineering; John 
W. Riner, (M.S., N. D., '49), former teach­ing fellow at Notre Dame, instructor in mathematics; James C. Smith, Jr., St. Louis university, St. Louis, Mo., instructor in mathematics; and Lawrence F. Robinson, National College of Education, Evanston, HI., assistant professor of education: Robert Riordan (N. D., '45), former vice-consul to Angola in Africa and to New Zealand, in­structor in marketing; Otto Seder, Univer­sity of Domstadt, Germany and later prac­ticing architect, assistant professor of archi­tecture. 
Capt. Thomas F. Conley, Jr., USN, holder of the Na\y Cro-iis and the Silver Star for service in the Pacific during World War II, has taken command of the naval Reserve Officers Training Corps at the University, and is a member of the faculty. 
Captain Conley succeeds Capt. Anthony 
L. Danis, USN. The latter is now command­ing officer of the Naval Recruiting Station in Norfolk, Va. 
The new Notre Dame naval commandant, a native of Bridgeport, Conn., is the former commander of the Fleet Training Group at Pearl Harbor. Most of his 20-year naval career has been spent aboard destroyers, and during the last war he participated in every major invasion in the Pacific Theatre. During one of his infrequent shore assign­ments, he earned a master's degree in Engi­neering at the University of California in 1939. 
At the outbreak of World War II, Capt. Conley was commander of the USS Barney. In December, 1942, he took command of the USS Ringgold, on which he served in the Pacific until September, 1944. From that time until he assumed his last post at Pearl Harbor he was commander of training operations and chief of staff of the Train­ing Command of the Pacific Fleet. 
Also gone from the University this year is Professor Jack R. Miller who served last year on the faculty of the College of Law. Mr. Miller has returned to his home town, Sioux City, la., to establish a law partner­ship under the name of Rawlings and Miller. 
One of the main experiences of a student at Notre Dame should be to become better acquainted with God, according to Rev. 
12th ANNUAL 
Universal 
Notre Dame 

Communion Sunday 

DECEMBER II , 1949 

Join with your local Notre Dame Qub in observing this sig­nificant occasion 

John J. *avanaugh, C.S.C., president, who gave the sermon at the solemn Mass mark­ing the solemn opening of the schoolyear on Sunday, Sept. 18. 
Father Cavanaugh told students that the "position of God in the thought and action of the world is now, at best, dubious and precarious. 
"A considerable group of thinkers, many of them in our large educational institutions, declare flatly that there is no God, that assent to His existence and to His influence in the worid is based on a mere superstitious assumption," Father Cavanaugh declared. "This group we have come to know as the rabid, militant, positive atheists, who in this country, in Russia, and Europe, and Asia, are trying to establish a total educational system, a body politic, a so-called system of morality, and a whole way of life that utter­ly excludes God. 
"Perhaps- you are more aware of the kind of atheist who professes a God who doesn't and cannot exist .. . Or you may know that much larger class of practical atheists who profess to believe in the traditional God of Judaism and Christianity, so long as He is isolated from the classroom and laboratory and market-place, and from the city hall. These, with their lips, sometimes pay wor­ship to God on Sunday morning, but find their everyday life no different from that of the pagans who profess no God at all." 
The Notre Dame president told the stu­dents that "you have come to Notre Dame for a definite purpose." He said: "you have come to Notre Dame to develop your mind, in a christian environment, to learn to read and think and to communicate with the great minds of the past and present, as they express themselves in theology and philoso­phy, in mathematics and the physical and social sciences, in literature and history." 




THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
This magazine is publislied bi-monthly by the 
Univenity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
Entered as second class matter October 1. 1939, at 
the Postoffice, Notre Dame. Indiana, under the act 
of Aujnist 24. 1912. Member of the American 
Aliunnt Council. 

"Do you hare cmy eight o'docks? . . . Why don't you try to get out of those ofienioon classes? . . . Who did you get for Spanish? . . . the familiar questions JAMES E. ARMSTBONC, '25, Editor as students register in the Drill HalL 
WiLUAM R. DoOLEY, '26, Manasing Editor 

Father Hesburgh 

(It could be soundly argued that the most significant development at Notre Dame in recent years is the development in the De­partment of Religion. Knowing df the in­tense interest of alumni in such progress, the ALUMNUS asked Father Hesburgh to tell them briefly about it. As head of the De­partment of Religion, he is leading the way to the new heights.—Ed.) 
When the general public asks why you send your son to a Catholic college when state schools are supposedly less expensive, you normally answer that you want the youngster to learn something beyond Chem­istry, Accounting or Thermodynamics as such. You want him to get a Catholic philosophy of life, a complete mental and moral training. In a word, you want reli­gion to be an integral part of his education for life. You remember from your own days here that there are two agencies at Notre Dame which have been specifically organized to promote this religious training. The Prefects of Religion aim to inspire and guide Notre Dame students along the practi­cal lines of masculine religious living. On the other hand, the Department of Religion is established to impart the basic religious truths that are the necessary intellectual foundatien for a mature Catholic life. 
Everyone expects Notre Dame men to be not only good practicing Catholics, but in­telligent, maturely formed Catholics. Last year, a group of professors from the Depart­ment of Religion asked themselves: what do we expect to accomplish by giving Notre Dame men 216 class hours of religion? The answers went something like this: the finished product should know why he is a Catholic; how his religion affects his life's work, his future family life, his business, his relationship to his community: the place of 

Department of Relision: Mid-Century Report 
By REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH. CS.C. S.T.D.. Executive Vice-President of the Univeisity and Head of the Department of Religion 
the Church in the modem world, specifically in" relation to burning-questions like Church and State, Education, Management and Labor, Politics, Racial Tensions, Catholic Action and the Litureical Movement. 
That is a large order. None of the men would agree that we are filling it at the moment. But we are on the way. A glance at our present personnel, program, and pro­jects will indicate how far we have gone, and how far we have yet to go. 
There was a day when the men who taught religion at Notre Dame had a variety of other teaching duties. Religion-teaching might .very easily become a side issue. That day is gone. Every man on our staff today is teaching only one subject that is his major preoccupation, namely, religion. A great proportion of those on our permanent staff have had special preparation for their task. Seven have doctorates in Theology and others are in the process of obtaining them. Others are studying religious educa­tion. The plan calls for every permanent member of the Religion Department to have a special degree for this work. Our men have been and are being trained at the Gregorian University in Rome, the Institute Catholique in Paris, Laval University in Quebec, and Catholic University in Wash­ington. Until a sufficient number of Holy Cross priests arc adequately trained, we have enlisted the help of other orders: Domini­cans, Franciscans, Passionists, Marists and Precious Blood Fathers, together with some specially qualified diocesan priests. Our normal staff at present is 25 priests teaching some 3,200 students. Next year it will be about 30 priests teaching close to 4,000 students. We e-xpect it to level off at that number and to become more stable as more Holy Cross priests receive their doctorates. 
The program has undergone some changes since you were here. There are now six semesters of religion. In the freshmen year we teach the Life of Christ and Christian Morals. In the sophomore year. Apolo­getics and the first part of Catholic Dogma, the truths of the Faith. In the junior year, the courses comprise the second part of Catholic Dogma and the Sacramental Life of the Church. The whole teaching staff is divided into three parts to specialize in the teaching of one of these three years. Each individual group of professors meets twice a month to discuss the progress of the 
course and the latest techniques in teaching it. To unify the curriculum, we have begun to produce our own religion textbooks. By February of 1950, four of the six basic text­books will be in print. The books on Morals and Dogma are now being released for use in other Catholic colleges after their trial here during the past two years. All the stu­dents within each particular course follow the same syllabus and take the same de­partmental exam at the end of the semester. There are also special outside reading assign­ments in the best Catholic books available in connection with the various courses. Special writing assignments test the students' ability to apply the basic theological prin­ciples to modem problems. 
There are some other new developments that can be classified under the heading of projects. Two summers ago, we initiated a graduate course in religion. There has been a great demand of late for a course in theology for the layman. We thought that this four-summer-semester course would answer that need. At least, it offers advanced training along theological lines that is avail­able to the layman practically nowhere eke in the world. Along the same lines, there has been a graduate liturgical program organized during the summer semester for the past two summers. This program drew world-famous professors from Europe last summer and has achieved a unique position in Catholic educational circles. 
Three further projects arc being initiated during the current schoolyear. First, there is a Marriage Institute to be conducted during eight weeks of the fall and spring semesters for seniors and married students. We hope that this will be a permanent and timely service to all Notre Dame students of the future. Secondly, there is a projected series of faculty lectures, three each semester on pertinent theological questions of the day, such as. Theology and Science, Church and State, Church and Education. Some of these lectures will be delivered by spe­cialists in our own department, others by top-flight theologians from other parts of the country. Lastly, and this should be of special interest to all of you, we arc pre­paring a selected Catholic Reading List, to be sent to all the Notre Dame alumnL This should insure a continuance of the training begun here. 
One student complained last year: what do you want to do, ordain me? Seriously, 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
a seminarian is trained along theological lines to do special work for Christ and His Church. But the clergy do not have a monopoly on this work. If any group of laymen should be intelligent and apostolic in their Catholic life, it should be Notre Dame men. We want to do as much as we can to provide that training for your sons. 
We sincerely believe that you send them here to be trained thoroughly in religion, as well as in the arts and natural sciences. If we did not trj- to be just as progressive in religious training as in the arts and sciences, there would be no point in your sending your sons here. We are trjing, so don't be too impatient with Junior if he turns in a low score for Physics and Histor\- and Re­ligion. There is some truth when he moans: "Things are really getting rough out here!" 

Rectors and Prefects Named 
Rectors and prefects in the residence halls are as follows for the 1949-50 schoolyear: 
Alumni Hall: rector. Rev. Charles Carey, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Thomas Brcnnan, cs.c. Rev. Francis Butler, cs.c, Rev. Joseph Ke­hoe, cs.c, Re%'. James Norton, cs.c, and Rev. Augustine Peverada, cs.c. Badin Hall: rector. Rev. Bernard Furstoss, cs.c: pre­fects, Re%-. Thomas McDonagh, cs.c, and Brother Robert Horton, cs.c 
Breen-Philtips Hall: rector. Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Robert Sheehan, cs.c. Rev. John J. Burke, cs.c, and Brother Conan, cs.c Cavanaugh Hall: rector. Rev. Ferdinand Brown, cs.c: pre­fects. Rev. Thomas Kelly, cs.c. Rev. Paul Bcichner, cs.c, and Rev. William Scandlon, cs.c 
Dillon Hall: rector. Rev. Laurence Brocstl, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Francis Cava­naugh, cs.c. Rev. Joseph Muckcnthaler, cs.c. Rev. Thomas Lockar>', cs.c. Rev. James McDonald, cs.c, Rev. .Mbert Schlitz-er, cs.c, and Rev. Robert Lochner, cs.c. 
Farley Hall: rector. Rev. Charles Sheedy, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Henr>' Bolger, ci.e.. Rev. Henr)' Glueckert, cs.c, and Rev. Paul Bailey, cs.c. Howard Hall: rector. Rev. Edward Keller, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Corne­lius Laskowski, cs.c, and Rev. Robert Woodward, cs.c Lyons Hall: rector. Rev. Joseph Cavanaugh, cs.c; prefects, Rev. Jerome Boyle, cs.c. Rev. Chester Soleta, cs.c, and Rev. Philip Mitchell, cs.c 
Morrissey Hall: rector, Rev. Paul Fr>'­berger, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Ra)-mond Cour, cs.c. Rev. Regis Riter, cs.c, and Rev. James Smyth. St. Edward's Hall: rector, Rev. John C. Burke, cs.c; prefects. Rev. John Gallagher, cs.c, and Rev. Joseph Haley, cs.c. 
Sarin Hall: rector. Rev. Peter Forrestal, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Robert Fagan, cs.c, and Rev. Mark Fitzgerald, cs.c. Walsh Hall: rector. Rev. George Holderith, cs.c; pre­fects Rev. Alfred Mendez, cs.c. Rev. Philip Schaerf. cs.c, and Rev. William Botzum, cs.c. Zahm Hall: rector. Rev. Charles Mc-Carragher, cs.c; prefects. Rev. Thomas Mc\voy, cs.c. Rev. Joseph Gar%-in, cs.c, 
.and Rev. William Mc'^ulifTe, cs.c 
Sons of 

Alumni Swe 

New Class 

Ninety-two alumni are represented on the campus this year by sons who are first-year Notre Dame students. 
."According to figures supplied early in September by Rev. Louis J. Thornton, cs.c , registrar, and subject to revision at the con­clusion of registration, the class of 1926 with 11 fathers represented tops the 1949 list of alumni fathers. The class of 1925, with 10, and 1927, with nine, follow close behind. 
Two sets of twins headline the incoming alumni sons. Harr>- F. Kelly, '17, Lansing, Mich., brought his twin sons, Harr>' F., Jr., and Brian J., to the campus on Sept. 12 and Walter J. Stuhldreher, '22, Indianapolis, did likewise with his twins, Walter F. and Wil­liam D. Paul R. Farmer, '30, South Bend, also had two sons entering this September, Paul R., Jr., and William D. 
The present list of 1949 alumni fathers follows: 
1911—Edmond J. Quinn, Rockville Center, N. Y. 
1912—Donnelly P. McDonald, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
1913—John T. Burns (deceased), Kala­mazoo, Mich. 
1914—Morrison A. Conway, Portland, Ore; Ray T. Miller, Cleveland, O. 
1915—Ra\-mond J. Kelly, Detroit, Mich.; Edward F. Riely, Minonk, 111. 
1916—Joseph H. Miller, Rochester, 
N. Y. 

1917—Robert J. Burns, Kenmore, N. Y.: Richard D. Daley, Erie, Pa.; Harry F. Kelly, Lansing, Mich, (twin sons entered); Ra\-mond A. Schaub, Highland, Ind. 
1919—Emmett J. Kelly, Detroit, Mich.; Richard M. White, Tulsa, Okla. 
1920—Lamont A. McLoughlin, Asbury Park, N. J.: Francis D. Watson, Lafayette, Ind. 
1921—^David V. Hayes, Manchester, Conn.; James H. Huxford, Skaneateles, N. Y.; Wilfred J. Riley, Detroit, Mich.; Eugene J. Shanahan, Clyde, O.; Frank C. Toepp, South Bend, Ind. 
1922—James F. Fogarty, Anderson, Ind.; A. T. Krug, Chillicothe, O.; Thomas 
S. McCabe, Chicago, HI.; Harold T. Oesau, Stratford, Conn.; A. A. Scott, Los Angeles, Calif.; Walter J. Stuhldreher, In­dianapolis, Ind. (twin sons entered). 
1923—Paul H. Castner, St. Paul, Minn.; 
J. Roy Dee, Mt. Carmel, 111.; Louis A. De-Smet, Chicago, 111.; Leland Lyness, Fessen­den, N. D. 
1924—^Edward G. Cantwell, Columbus, Ohio.; Norman N. Feltes, (deceased) Win­netka, lU.; William F. Gallagan, Westfield, 
N. J.; John F. Gotuaco, Manila, P. I.; Ray­mond F. Kohin, Bethesda, Md.; Harold L. Londo, Green Bay, Wis.; James I. Smith, Jr., Circleville, O.; John N. Stanton, Gar)-, Ind. 
1925—Edward L. Ahlering, Highland, Ind.; Herman G. Centlivre, Fort Wayne, Ind.; James C. Chisholm, Erie, Pa.; William 
L. Clemens, Santa Monica, Calif.; August 
L. Fipp, Rome City, Ind.; Ir\'ing H. Lam­mers, Detroit, Mich.; John E. Lightner, Irvington, N. J.; George E. Ludwig, Grand Rapids, Mich.; William E. Merriman, Roch­ester, N. Y.; A. J. Porta, South Bend, Ind. 
1926 — Harold W. Carey, Lancaster, Wis.; Edward L. Duggan, South Orange, N. J.; Bert V. Dunne, San Mateo, Calif.; Ro­man C. Feldpausch, Hastings, Mich.; Fred­erick G. Ferguson, Lorain, O.; Thomas V. Fitzgerald, Brooklyn, N. Y.; J. Norbert Gel-son, Summit, N. J.; Paul J. Harrington, Mountainside, N. J.; Maurice D. McNult)-, (deceased) Indianapolis, Ind.; Charles E. Mason, Indianapolis, Ind.; James A. Ronan, Chicago, 111. 
1927—George W. Doherty, Oak Park, 111.; James F. Flaherty, Hartford, Conn.; Paul J. Fr}-, Dixon, 111.; Herbert E. Jones, South Bend, Ind.; William F. Roemer, South Bend, Ind.; James L. Sheerin, Koko­mo, Ind.; Andrew F. Sleigh, Weston, W. Va.; Alban M. Smith, LaPorte, Ind.: .An­drew T. Smithbergcr, South Bend, Ind. 
1928—William F. Cronin, Larchmont, 
N. Y.; James M. Ingram, Louisville, Ky.; Joseph L. McCart)', Denver, Colo.; Heiir)' 
J. Massman, Kansas City, Mo.; Robert H. Stoeppler, Toledo, O.; Charies A. Williams, South Bend, Ind. 
1929—John J. CahiU, (deceased), San Francisco, Calif.; John M. Carroll, Spring­field, 111.; Miles J. Devine, Chicago, III.; Thomas J. Griffin, Knox\'ille, Tenn.; John 
T. Montroy, Chicago, 111.; Bernard J. O'Leary, Zanesville, O.; Oskar D. Rust, Grcensburg, Ind. 
1930—Paul R. Farmer, South Bend, Ind., (two sons entering); Francis A. Fink, Huntington, Ind.; Albert J. Gebert, Wichita, Kans.; Henrj- E. Hinsenkamp, Plainfield, N. J.; Mark B. McCabe, Riverhead, N. Y.; Donald D. Sullivan, Northampton, Mass. 
1931—Lawrence H. Baldinger, South Bend, Ind.; Paul J. Gushing, Piedmont, Calif.; Frank C. Wachsmith, New York City, 
N. Y. 

1932—William T. Hall, Buffalo, N. Y. 
a few weeks ago. The 10-foot cross was lowered the 225 feet to the ground for the regilding process. 
THE JACKPOT QUESTION being aiked 
by tha CoUeg* oi Commerce: "How weU 
are oar recent grddnoies doing in the 
busineu worid?" 
Deon James E. McCarthy is sending 
out questioiiBaires to badness firms em­
ploying Noire Dam* commerce gradnoles. 
He asks that eraployeis groda the NJ>. 
gradnoles on the following qualities: 
sense oi responsibility (20 percent): em­
ployer loyally (20 percent); buaness 
imagination (15 percent); organixolion 
ability (10 percent); ambition (10 per­
cent), and ability to initiale (10 percent). 
THE NATURAL LAW INSTITUTE at 
Notre Dame will serve as a model for a 
similar institute in Cologne, Germany, 
according to a letter Dean Clarence E. 
Manion received from the Catholic Univer­
sity Association of North-Rhine-Westphalia. 
The institute at Notre Dame, unique in 
modem times, is held here annually to in­
crease the emphasis of the Natural Law as 
the basis of life, liberty, and all other htmian 
rights. 
NEW PRESIDENT of the Catholic Broadcasters Assodotion is the Bev. Pat­rick Peyton. CJ5.C.. founder of the Family Bosary Crusade and director of "The Family Theater" over the Mutual Broad­casting System. The association held its second onnual meeting here in late July. 
FOUR HUNDRED SISTERS and 50 priests and brothers attended the third an­nual Sisters' Vocational Institute here in July. 
PROF. DONALD ATTWATER. of Black-friars SchooL England, said while teaching here this summer that loo little attention has been paid to the fate of Catholics of the Eastern Rite in publicity given the cases of Cardinal KGndszenty and Arch­bishops Stepinoc and Reran. 
He pointed out that Catholics in for­merly-Polish Ukraine (now in USSR) and in Rumania number 4,000^)00 and 1,500,000 respecthrely. 

"All of their bishops me^in prison, their institutions dispersed and destroyed, and the lower clergy and lay people are be­ing cajoled and bludgeoned into repudi­oting unity with the Holy See and recog­nizing the separated Orthodox Church." said Professor Altwoter. 
PROF. WILLIAM H. BENNETT was among the 1,200 scholars who convened at Stanford University for the meeting of the Modem Language Association of America. He delivered a paper, "Ultra-violet Ray Photography of a Gothic Palimpsest: Skei­reins. Leaves I, II, V, VII." 
MORE THAN I.S00 men gathered on the compns for a week-end in raid-AngusI to attend the 27th annnol laymen's retreat 
<fU 




UNIVERSITY 
Br EDWABD A. nSCHER. '37 
TOO MANY PEOPLE beUeve that edu­cation begins and ends in schooL said Dr. Mortimer I. Adier at the summer Com­mencemenL 
Dr. Adler, professor of the Philosophy of Law at the University of Chicago, was principal speaker at the exercises at which Notre Dame awarded 202 bachelor degrees and 53 graduate degrees. 
"Education only begins in school," said Dr. Adler. "It can never end there in any sense of the word. Education should lead to wisdom, and wisdom cannot be at­tained at the age of a college graduate. Wisdom is the result of a lifetime of learning. 
"When adult education begins, it goes on throughout the whole of life. One cannot cease adult education without also ceasing to live." 
Dr. Adler admonished the graduates to 
"let no inferior science draw you from 
philosophy, nor no inferior philosophy 
draw you from theology." 
During the baccalaureate sermon, de­
livered at a solemn high Mass, Rev. Ber­
nard Mullahy. C.S.C., told the graduates 
that "modem universities hove become 
more and more like factories. 
"In the speculative order science has overthrown wisdom. !n the practical order, not prudence but art, technological art, is the ideal. From the union of science and technological art, which is, of course, something very good in itself, has finally issued atomic fission. But it has become a frightful monster, because we are without the wisdom to give us the right order which is the basis of peace, and without prudence to direct us in the proper use of the power we have created." 
THE UNIVERSITY was represented in July by Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, director of the faculty, at the Inter­national Educational Congress, in Santand­er, Spain. 
The congress marked the 300th anniver­sary of the canonization of the Spanish educator, St. Joseph Calasantius. 
In a paper, "The Educational System of a Democracy," Father Cunningham presented an ideal educational system not yet realized in any country, but towards which he said, all countries with democratic aspirations should work. 

TODAY 
ALL PERIODICALS AND BOOKS pub­lished at Notre Dame will get adminiatro­tional and editorial attention from a new department headed by Dale Francis. The University of Noire Dame Press, which has just published the first four volumes in a religion-ior-Iaymen series, will also be a part of the new publications de­partment organization. 
Mr. Francis, a graduate of Bluffton Col­lege, was a newspaperman in Troy. Lima, and Dayton, O., before the war. While in the army he founded and edited an army newspaper in Big Spring, Tex., and later wrote for "Stars and Stripes" and the "20th Air Force Bomb Rack" overseas. 
After the war he rejoined the staff of the DAYTON HERALD, and later went to North Carolina where he was the first executive secretary of the North Carolina Catholic Laymen's Association, and where he founded and edited the diocesan week­ly. THE NORTH CAROLINA CATHOUC. 
He came to Notre Dame in '48, where he did graduate work in political science and was on the staff of the Department of Public Information. He is a member of the board of directors of the Catholic Broadcasters Association, a member of the executive committee of the board of directors of the Aquinas Library ond Book Store in South Bend, and is a con­tributor to national magazines. 
-<— 

FIFTY-EIGHT YOUNG MEN received the habit of the Brothers of Holy Cross at the novitiate at Rolling Prairie, Ind., and 16 Brothers made their final profession in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
Thirty-two seminarians and four lay brothers of the priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross received their habits in another ceremony at the Sacred Heart No­vitiate on Miami Road, South Bend. 
A VETVniE FAMILY of four, the L. L. Petersens, sailed for Sweden where Mr. Petersen will do research for Iiis doctor­ate in political science. He will spend a year in research on cooperatives with funds supplied by the Bishop OUara grant for graduate students at the Uni­versity of Notre Dome. 
THE CROSS atop the Sacred Heart church gleams more brightly in the sun since an application of gold leaf was applied 
Career Detectives 
Guidance and Testing Department Assists Students In Planning For The Future 
rpHIS fall Notre Dame's Guidance and 

Testing Department enters into its fifth year of pi-o%'iding a specialized serv­ice to all incoming students at the Uni­versity's expense. 
Established in 1945, the department was originally stai-ted at the suggestion of Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C. During the first two yeai-s, activities were su­pervised by Eev. John J. Lane, C.S.C. After Father Lane's transfer to King's College, Edward R. Quinn, Notre Dame '28, assumed charge and has been Head for the past two years. 
In the beginning only veterans had access to Guidance and Testing services but later this procedure was modified to include all students attending the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
Freshmen are privileged to undergo certain tests for guidance and placement purposes. These test records are valuable sources of information to faculty mem­bers, the student being examined, and to prospective employers. Particularly, ex­ecutives are most anxious to see test records of potential job applicants. 
Besides group testing of incoming first-year men, the department adminis­ters "exams" for the Law School Admis­sion Test (quarterly), the Medical School Admission Test (semi-annually), and the Navy Aptitude Tests once each year, and does individual counseling and testing throughout the year. 
Individual testing, such as is pictured on these pages, is especially beneficial to students who have encountered scholastic difiiculties—primarily because of not knowing their true aptitudes and abili­ties. The counselor can be very helpful in suggesting methods to overcome vari­ous weaknesses. 
Even the above-average student—one who has attained excellent scholastic grades—can gain new insight into his potentialities, his vocational or cai-eer interests. Usually tests are given in small, private booths under the super­vision of an experienced counselor. Si­lence i-eigns supreme during the exam­ining period. 
As occupational placement is the natu­ral means to an end of a well-conceived guidance program, the department has been very helpful in cooperating with students seeking employment. 
Tests, which are sho^vn here, may be the deciding factors in enabling students to choose, wisely, their career. 
Vocational Interests are a vital part of the objective test record. Here, two students start their testing pro­grams by recording their interests on a pin-punch test. 

Student is scheduled for a preliminary interview by Miss Eomives, secretary. After being assigned to a counselor, he is subjected to various testing and guidance procedures. 
SILENCE • 
PSWHUnCAL TKTING IN PROCBESS 
M NW DISIRACI THEJXMIINEES 
The student inventories personality fac­tors affecting educational and vocational choices with this card-sorting test. 
i.-*iz-r:ar-3^^:?j"y^»--''%yq3ry*ia».ga"'tgj>-iu^a'>^WHfy^a:»ff^^?y#g*ftt-?Hy«!g»T.^ 
Mr. Quinn, head of the Guidance and Testing De­Tweezer Dexterity lest is scored well aboTe orerage 
partment administers the Wechsler-Bellevue ^telli-by potential doctors, dentists and others using gence Scale to a student in obtaining an accurate small instruments. analysis of general intelligence. 
Both the right and left hands are tested in sampling 
Mr. Willemin, assistant to department head, admin­
psychomotor reaction with the Purdue Pegboord ol 
isters group achievement test via a carefully timed 
Manipulative Dexterity. 

paper and pencil method. 


^'SISS^^^^ET^ 
The Miles Vision Test is undertaken by this student Colored blocks test student's mechanical ability and in determining ocular controL muscular coordination. 
Bi-dimensional spatial relations test measures apti­Student is informed, during final interview, of results tudes possessed by architects, artists and engineers. attained in guidance and testing methods. 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 
Notre Dame Books 
THE NOTRE DAME STORY, by Francis Wallace, '23, (Rinehart, New York: $2.75) 
One of the phenomena in the develop­ment of Notre Dame is that no matter how familiar you are with the Notre Dame Story, there is always a thrill in its repeti­tion, always the temptation to tell it. 
Frank Wallace, in yielding to this tempta­tion, has done the Universit)* his usual good ser\'ice of a clear-cut, interesting and verj­constructive narrative, into which is of course woven the ever-fresh personalitj- of Knute Rockne and the teams with which he conquered the football world. 
But Frank Wallace, in the deeper channels of his present post as president of Notre Dame's alumni, and in the analyses of the passing years, has gone beyond Rockne and the Saturday significance of Notre Dame, and in a pleasing informative fashion which in no way detracts from the color of his characters has woven into this stor>' the past and the purpose of Notre Dame—both of which, as all Notre Dame men know, mould the men who mould the Notre Dame Stor)*. 
The new volume will make interesting reading for every alumnus—it makes inter­esting and valuable reading for the non-alumnus. 
MASCOT MIKE, by Leila Rostiser (Dunne Press, Louisville: $1). 
This is a book for small children, but a most pleasing and colorful one. It is the first of a proposed series on popular college mascots.. The author has told the stor)- of Clashmore Mike, II, and his colorful career, climaxed by the visit of the .\rmy Mule to the Notre Dame stadium. Frequent illustra­tion is also unusually good for an inexpen­sive volume. .'Vny children with Notre Dame contacts will find the book one of multiple enjoyment. It can be ordered through the Notre Dame Book Store. 
THE CROSS .4GAINST THE SKY, by Sister M. Immaculate, CS.C. (Fides Press, South Bend: $1.50). 
Released in the nation's Catholic book stores on Sept. 25 was a colorful new chil­dren's volume telling the rich stor>- of Father Basil Moreau, founder of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross, and one of the great apostles of the nineteenth centur>\ 
Written by Sister Mar)- Immaculate, CS.C, professor of medieval literature at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, the book contains 132 pages of delightful stor)-, and four-color illustrations by Sister Rose Ellen, CS.C, of St. Mary's, and Miss Dorothy Young, a commercial artist of South Bend. 
The story appears under the title, The Cross Against the Sky, and is to be used as a supplementary reader in the Holy Cross translation by Sister Mary Agnese Prender­grammar schools throughout the year. The gast, of the Sisters of Providence, who re­book has a regular hard binding and re­ceived her II.A. at Notre Dame in 1946. tails for $1.50. It is being published by This book, by a well-known French Cath­Fides Publishers, of South Bend, a non­olic Action chaplain, explains Our Lady's profit corporation formed by a group of role in the lay apostolate, and is available Notre Dame alumni. in most Catholic book shops. In a cloth 

Recently Fides published The Presence edition retails for $2.50, and for $1.50 in a of Mary, by Francis Channot, s.j., in a paper covered edition. 
Foundation Progress Keyed by Alumni 
The Science Building project for 1949, to be successful, requires an additional $1,000,000 by December 31 (as this is written on September 8). 
Offhand it looks discouraging. Especially when it is accompanied by the fact that alumni participation is 5,110 donors for 1949 as against the 1948 higher figure on the same date of 6,014. 
BUT—on this date our total gi\-ing record is double that of the same date in either 1948 or 1947. 
AND—the alumni average gift for 1949 is almost double that of 1948; $39.22 for 1949 as against $21.76 in 1948 and $16.38 in 1947. 
AND—the University and the Foundation Office are well aware and deeply appreciative of the alumni efforts in the Foundation field organization, which is reflecting itself in sub­stantial increase of non-alumni participation. 
In 1948, the total number of non-alumni contributors was 691. At this writing, 591 non-alumni have already contributed, and their contributions total $185,245.21 as against the 1948 figure on the same date of only $55,796.10. 
NEEDED —GIVE and GEt 
In the light of the above, two projects are obviously in the hands of alumni if the ensuing quarter is to see the successful completion of this urgent first step in the Foundation program (and if the present ratio of gifts is preserved, success will result): 
1.
 Contributions, in any amount, from the 66 percent of our alumni who have not yet contributed. (Dartmouth has already reported a 64 percent participation this year. You remember we were national champions in this field in 1947.) If you can't send the larger gift you hope or hoped to send, drop a dollar or two in the mail to boost the participation figure. This is not only encouraging to all alumni, but is the most powerful argument in the solicitation of outside giving. 

2.
 Interest someone else in making a gift. If each alumnus would undertake to secure just one non-alumni gift, the multiplication of our friends contributing would be astonishing. The Foundation has sent to all non-contributing alumm suggestions for possible contacts in this connection. 


PATTEBN SOUND 
Our Foundation program is sound. Evidence from many and divergent fund-raising efforts indicates that our aims and our methods are right. 
The purpose is indisputable. Every "pattern for education" which appears—and the crisis in education in America brings them out frequently—emphasizes that Notre Dame has the broad approach to sound education on the basis of moral responsibility which is now being recommended for American education generally. 
With your interest and effort, the Foundation program for Notre Dame will succeed. 
ceeds are now being distribated to si-i-

Lead in Relief Campaign 

dents in need in 11 foreign coimtries. Notre Dame, with a student contribution Campus personnel for the 1948-49 relief of $26,181, led America's Catholic colleges drive were Jack Dempsey of Philadelphia, for the second straight year in raising funds chairman, Leo J. Condon of Dayton, O., for the Student Relief Campaign, sponsored publicity chairman, and John Moorhead, of by the National Federation of Catholic Col­Atlantic City, N. J., carnival chairman. lege students. Last year Notre Dame stu­The amount was raised on the campus dents submitted $31,275 to the campaign. through sponsorship of football victory dances, door-to-door canvasses, clothing 
The total raised throughout the country, drives, and an all-campus carnival, which for physical, spiritual, and intellectual re­featured two automobiles as grand prizes. lief of fellow students in war-devastated 
Following Notre Dame in total contribu­countries, amounted to $386,901, with 174 
tions were the University of Detroit, American Catholic colleges participating. $19,000, and DePaul University of Chicago, Relief materials purchased with the pro­$8,300. 

Father Lauck Honors 

A piece of sculpture by Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., '42, was in August purchased by the Committee on Selection, Fjurmount Park Art Association, Philadelphia Museum of Art. Called "St. John Beside the Cross" and done in black walnut, the piece will eventually be placed in Fairmount Park, Philadelphia, but is now on exhibit in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. 
Father Lauck's work was one of seven purchased by the Fairmount Park Art Asso­ciation from the Third Sculpture Inter­national, conducted in Philadelphia from May 15 to Sept. 11. (See ALUMNUS, July-August, 1949). Of the seven (out of a total of 253 entries in the International) four were done by American sculptors and three by Europeans. Purchases were made from a fund of $20,000 allocated by the associa­tion for the purpose. 
Father Lauck sailed for Rome on Sept. 15 and will spend six months in the art centers of Europe. Prominent in the ceremonies at Cedar Point war*, from tho left, Ed Kranse. Jade Elder, 
Bill Cemer, Gus Dorais. Don Idler, Chat Grant. Jadt Caimaa. Walter MUar 
Alumni Golf Tournament  and Stan CoiaU.  
The Alumni OflSce ticker tape has finally caught up on the latest quotations and can  At  e»dai,  PoiHJ OH. JlaU  Cidm  
now report the winning scores registered for  
the  highly successful  golf  tournament  con­ 
ducted  as  part of the Alumni Reunion  last  



Rockne Plaque Is Dedicated 
June. 
Dan Sheedy, '39, with a score of 76, took the trophy for low gross. Other winners were: Gene Mayl, '24, blind bogey (74); The beach at Cedar Point, on Lake Erie ceremonies. Rev. Edward Sewaid, chap­Tom Bremer, '44, high gross (136); Lew in Ohio, where during the summer of 1913 lain of the Cleveland Club, offered the Crego, '34, most strokes on one hole (12); the late Knute K. Rockne along with opening prayer and Rt. Rev. Msgr. Maurice Bob Phelan, '23, least number of putts Charles E. (Gus) Dorais developed the F. Griffin, '04, also of Cleveland, gave (27); Harry Lavery, '44, highest number of forward pass, was marked with a bronze the benediction. 
strokes on any nine holes, (72); Hugh Mc­plaque on Sept. 1 by the Notre Dame Club 
Manigal, '29, strongest throwing arm out of The Notre Dame Club of Sandusky spon­
of Cleveland. 
the sand traps; Rev. Louis Thornton, sored a dinner for a hundred guests in the 
C.S.C, '29, most cheating on 18 holes with­Football stars of other years were promi­Breakers Hotd, Cedar Poin^ immediatdy out being caught. nent in the crowd of 400 which attended after the dedication. The hotd featured the ceremonies surrounding the dedication a display of pictures and clippings to com­
Hugh Bums, '39, head trainer in the of the plaque. Among these were Athletic memorate Rockne's life. 
Athletic Department, was the general chair­Director Edward W. (Moose) Krausc, Don man for the alumni golf tournament this Miller of the Four Horsemen, who was year and has promised a repeat performance general chairman of the dedication, Gus for the 1950 reunion. Improvements, em­Dorais, Alumni Director Jack Elder, Bill bellishments and innovations will make the Cemey, Chet Grant, Jack Cannon, Walter tournament even better, and certainly big­Miller and Stan Cofall. 
ger, on June 9 and 10, Mr. Bums declares. If any alumnus, particularly a member of a The inscription on the plaque reads: 1950 reunion class, wishes to provide a "To Knute Rockne — In grateful memory tournament prize—well, Mr. Bums readily of the man whose._standards,of fair^^play .^, 
offers his arm for twisting. 
are -an immortal -inspiration" to the' youth Two hundred forty eight participated in of America and whose many contributions the 1949 reunion tournament. That number, 
to the great sport of football will never it can safely be predicted, will be up to 400 
be forgotten. He developed the forward next June. 
pass on this strip of beach." 
Rev. Michael L. Moriarty of Cleveland 
Hoosier History by Band 
gave the plaque-dedication address, setting 
The history of Indiana will be portrayed out Rockne as the "go-giver." Gus Dorais by the Notre Dame Band during the half-recalled incidents of the 1913 summer at times of the four home football games of Cedar Point and of the 1913 Army-Notre 
1949. Each game will feature a different Dame game. Ed Krause, representing the chapter of Indiana history and the season's University, emphasized the contribution production is entitled "Our Hoosier Her­made by Rock to youth, and Don .Miller itage." Directed for the eighth year by dwelt on Rockne, the psychologist. 
H. Lee Hope, the band of 103 members had to get off to a fast start in order to be ready Robert Stack, president of the Notre This is O* pioqaa-iAidi &• Ctevalaad for the Indiana game on Sept. 24. Dame Club of Cleveland, presided at the Chib dadieolad al Cedar Mirt i« Ohiob 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
sity, was the first editor-in-chief. The dedi­
'!'A Real Notre Dame Man" 
cation for this year reads: "Because the success of any University de­pends upon them, and because they have 



Tommy Sexton Joins Toledo Club 
contributed so much in so many ways to the well-being of the student and the school, By M. H. KOPF, '48 we dedicate this fortieth volume of the 
They dubbed him Tommy "Notre Dame" Sexton at Warin Springs, Georgia, and it was a nickname well taken. Young Tommy, who has been paralyzed with polio for the past five years, is known to many a Notre Dame man, if not personally then through the pages of the ALUMNUS and many other publications. 
Just before Tommy returned from a seven months' stay at the Warm Springs Foundation to his home in Toledo he re­ceived a letter from John R. Malonc, presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, making him an honorary member of the club in recognition of intense loyalty to Netre Dame and broad interest in her ac­tivities. 
This was just another step in a series of achievements that have linked Tommy to Notre Dame ever closer over the past years. He has been an Irish fan as long as he can remember, but his interest was quickened after a bed-side visit from head football coach, Frank Leahy, in 1946, at the time of his eighteenth birthday. Since then he has received visits from countless other Notre Dame men. Tommy has scrap­books full of Notre Dame lore. 
One of the latest tributes paid this smil­ing patron of Our Lady's school was a 150­mile special trip made by H. Lee Hope and the Notre Dame Band last Easter. The band traveled from Atlanta to Warm Springs to play for Tommy and the more than 150 other Warm Springs' patients — but especially for Tommy. 
One of liis closest friends at the Founda­tion, Tommy reported, was Jack Joyce, '41, who was recently afflicted with polio and who has since returned to his home in Spartanburg, S. C. 
Tommy \vill be staying in a Toledo hos­pital now but plans to be home every weekend to visit his parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. Thomas Sexton, 2627 Meadow Wood Drive, and to watch the Notre Dame football games on the television set. 
Next January Tommy goes back to Warm Springs for a "revaluation." At that time his signs of progress and his braces will be 

• carefully checked by the Foundation staff. Some new types of mechanical aids may be developed for Tommy and perhaps, as in the past. Tommy may be the author of some of these improvements himself. Dur­ing his last stay in Georgia, he discovered ssveral helpful semi-automatic feeding devices. 
i In J the meantime Tommy is faithfully practicing his exercises — and praying — and, as 'ever, smiling. It is no wonder that in giving him formal notice of his election to the N.D;Club of Toledo, John Malone wrote, "The Notre Dame Alumni in the Toledo area, in recognition of your intense loyalty to Notre Same and your broad in­terest in her activities, have.elected to make you an honorary member of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo. As a member of the Club you will be included in the official directory and will be invited to participate in all Club activities when it is possible for you to do so. 
"The Toledo Alumni also want to express their admiration for your genuine Catho­licit)- and cheerful spirit, and most im­portantly for the truly Christian courage you have displayed during these past five years of illness. Most certainly, you merit the distinction of being called a real Notre Dame Man, for your life is a magnificent example of that which Notre Dame is striv­ing to develop in America's young men through her educational and religious pro­grams. 
"We realize that our help must be of a spiritual nature and are therefore request­ing that the Toledo alumni, as well as Notre Dame men throughout the country, direct a special prayer to Notre Dame, Our Lady, that She may sec fit to procure for you a speedy and complete recovery." 
Dedicate Yearbook to Alumni 
The ALUMNUS is happy to note with gratitude the dedication of the 1949 Dome, fortieth volume in the series which began in 1906, when the late Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, c.s.c, former president of the Univer-Dome to the alumni of the University of Notre Dame, those thousands of men from all over the world who have gone before us to make the world a better place in which to live. Whatever their station in life may be, they have taken the name of Our Lady with them, and they have carefully laid the groundwork for our success in life. With this dedication we send a prayer asking God to bless them and keep them; we thank them for contributing so much to the University of which we have had the opportunity of becoming a part." 
Richard D. Cullen, '50, Kearney, Nebr., was editor-in-chief of the 1949 Dome, Rob­ert J. Savage, '51, Streator, 111., was manag­ing editor and Robert Surkamp, '49, St. Louis, was business manager. 


Chet Grant on Football 
"Under the Hat with Chet Grant" is a new football information service provided for alumni and other friends of Notre Dame by Chet Grant, '21, former assistant coach at Notre Dame and onetime sports editor of the late South Bend News-Times. Out of his football background as Notre Dame player in 1916, 1920 and 1921, coach for seven years under Elmer Layden, and writer, Chet is supplying 12 letters per football season to his readers. For a sample copy and other pertinent information, address D. C. Grant, 221 Tonti Ave., South Bend, Ind. 

Tommy Sexton is made an honorary member d the Netre Dame Club of Toledo. From the left standing: Leo B. English. '35. Preadent John B. Mcdone. '42, M. Bobert Kopt '48. James J. Malone. '44. and Kari i c Syring. '35. 







ATHLETICS * • 
FOOTBALL 

The Irish of Notre Dame are at it again. The Tripuckas, Fischers, Wendells, Walshs, et al., arc gone, but not the Harts, Martins, Sitkos, Gays and the rest of their 1949 counterparts. And the net result at this writing is that Coach Frank Leahy's football teams now have gone 29 consecutive games mthout defeat. 
Nearly 54,000 fans sat in on the Blue and Gold season-opener, many of them there to see what effect the loss of so many grid greats would be on this year's edition of the Fighting Irish. They saw a scrapping, but young, Indiana University eleven scare the daylights out of heavily favored Notre Dame in the first half, only to tire badly as the Irishbacks went marching by in the second half. 
Notre Dame beat Indiana, 49 to 6, but not without a struggle. Indiana's sopho­mores wilted in the second half, after the Irish held only a 16 to 6 margin at the in­termission. What would have happened had the Leahymen been playing a more sea­soned opponent is problematical. But the Hoosier contest did provide material for conjecture. Let's throw a few up for grabs: 
Co-Capt. Leon Hart is going to be on nearly everyone's All-American team this year. Perhaps, as Alumni Association Presi­dent Francis Wallace wrote in a pre-season story in Collier's, he may rank as the "Line­man of the Year." At any rate, Indiana's ball carriers shied away from Hart's end all afternoon. 
The other co-captain, Jim Martin, prob­ably will continue to be the most underrated member of the Notre Dame team. Martin, converted this year to left tackle from his regular left end post, has taken to his new position well. Martin should prove to be a tower of strength on the left side of the Irish line. 
It looks now, barring injury to either, as though Bill Wightkin and Bill Flynn will divide the Irish left end duties. Although neither is as rugged as Hart, both are for­mer monogram winners and play an aggres­sive brand of ball. 
It may be a long time before another pair of guards appear on the scene who will make Notre Dame fans forget Marty Wen­dell and Bill Fischer of last year's ball club. If many injuries turn up at this position, guard could be the weak link of the Irish team. One such injury did plague the guards through pre-season drills and the Indiana game, as Frank "Rodney" Johnson was sidelined with a leg injury. Sophomore Paul Bums, Bob Lally and Fred Wallncr shouldered most of the guard burdens against the Hoosiers. Whether they will hold 
By RAYMOND J. DONOVAN, '42 

up against more rugged opposition remains to be seen. 
Perhaps the outstanding lineman on the field in the Indiana game was a sophomore named Bob Toneff. Toneff, 235-pound husky, was underneath almost every defen­sive play while he was in the game. And on three different occasions he blocked Indiana punts, one resulting in a safety, while the other two set up Irish touchdowns. Remem­ber the name of Toneff. Before three years are up, he could go down in the books as one of Notre Dame's all-time greats. 
The center position is well taken care of in the Irish lineup, barring injury. Walt Grothaus and Gerry Groom, the latter one of the best in the nation in a line-backer capacity, probably will see most action in the center of the line. Behind this pair is sopho­more talent, lacking in experience. 
The big question in the Notre Dame back­field is "How will Bob Williams come through as the No. 1 Irish quarterback?" The answer, at least on the basis of the In­diana game, is that Williams calls a good game from his quarterback position, but still needs improvement in his passing game. Bob has a tendency to "lead" his receiver a little 
Shannon View Mike I. new Notre Dame mascot, meets Jim Martin, co-captain and tackle of the 1949 team. The dog. third of the Irish terrier mascots since 1935. is the gift of James McGonraghT. Chicago businessman and Notre Dame enthusiast. Clashmore Mike I served from 1935 until his death in 1945. Clashmore Mike O, also the gift'of Jim McGorraghy. Joined the team in 1945. but disappeared on the eve of the Novr-Noire Dame game 
last fall. 

too much, but this could be corrected as the season progresses. One must remember that the Indiana game was the first for Williams as a starter. 
Even Coach Frank Leahy admits that the remainder of the Irish backfield leaves little to be desired. Emil "Six Yard" Sitko, switched to fullback this year from his reg­ular right half position, continues to be the Irish back who can pick up those needed four, five, or six needed yards in a tight spot. 

BASKETBALL 

Renewal of three old-time series will fea­ture a strong twenty-four game schedule for the 1949-50 Notre Dame basketball teamj according to an announcement by Edwarid 
W. (Moose) Krause, Irish athletic director and head basketball coach. 
Opponents who will return to the Notre Dame hardwood schedule include Creigh­ton, back after a lapse since 1927; Loyola of Chicago, last met in 1925; and John Carroll, who last played Notre Dame in 1940. 
Feature of the nine-game home schedule will be a visit on Jan. 23 of the powerful Kentucky Wildcats, last year's national champions. St. Louis University's high-fly­ing Billikens also will play in the Irish baliwik on Feb. 11. 
Three holdovers from last year's varsity squad are expected to form the nucleus for the current Notre Dame basketball team. They are guard Kevin O'Shea,- of San Francisco; center John Foley, of Worcester, Mass.; and forward Marty O'Connor, of Kewanee, 111. Coach Krause will badly feel the loss through graduation of such veteran stalwarts as guard Paul Gordon, and forwards Leo Bamhorst and Jimmy O'Halloran. 
The complete schedule follows: 
Dec 8—Cretgliton at Notre Dame. Dec. 13—Wisconsin at Madi£on. Dec. 17—Northwestern at Chicago stadium. Dec 19—Iowa at Notre Dame. Dec. 29—Indiana at Indianapolis. Dec 30—Purdue at Indianapolis. Jan. A—Butler at Notre Dame. Jan. 7—^Michigan State at East Lansing. Jan. II—DeRiuI at Notre Dame. Jan. 13—John Carroll at Cleveland. Jan. 14—Canisius at Buffalo, N. Y. .Tan. 18—Michigan State at Notre Dame. Jan. 23—Kentucky at Notre Dame. Jan. 28—Northwestern at Chicago stadium. Jan. 31—Butler at Indianapolis. Feb. 4—Marquette at Notre Dame. Feb. 7—Loyola U. at Chicago stadium. Feb. 11—St. Louis at St. Louis. Feb. 14—Loyola at Notre Dame. Feb. 18—DePaul at Chicago stadium. Feb. 23—St. Louis at Notre Dame. Feb. 25—U. S. Na\-al Acad, at Aimapolis. Feb. 27—New York U. at New York. Mar. 4—Marquette at Milwaukee, Wis. \ : 

ALUMNI CLUBS ^ ^ ^ 
Baltimore 
The club and ihc University have reason to feel equally proud of the appointment of HAL WIL­LIAMS^ '38, as foreign cwirespondent for the Balti­more "Sun" in Germany. It vn\\ be Hal's job to report ''on the scene" developments of Germany's political and social recovery. Hal *vas formerly editor of the "Sunday Sun** photograv-ure magazine. 
Also leaving Baltimore for a short time is LOU O'SHEA who is in New York as a member of the staff of one of the large pharmaceutical houses. Lou was formerly assistant sales manager of the Emerson Drug Company, Baltimore. 
The wheels are once again being set in motion to show Baltimore another gala weekend for the Na\7­Notrc Dame Game. Plans for the Rally at the Emerson Hotel, team and club headquarters, Friday, Oct. 28 are in the hands of a committee headed by ED SPORL. Assisung Ed will be FRANK HOCH­REITER, radio, press, and television; FELIX MEL­ODY, decoiaUons; BRICE SMITH, re5cr\-ations; FRANK 0*CONNELL, RaUy tickets; GIL PEN­DERGAST, game tickets. As in previous years the notables of sport, radio, and press will be present. 
Saturday, after the game, there will be a Victors-Cocktail Party in the ballroom of the Emerson Hotel. Heading the committee in charge of this event is JIM MURR.AY. 
HARRY E. STORCK, JR. 


Boston 
There have been some major changes down at Stonehill College at North Easton. REV. FRANCIS 
J. BOLAND, C.S.C, has become the new president while REV. LEO F. FLOOD, C.S.C., joins him as vice-president. We wish to extend congratulations together with the heartiest welcome of the Boston Club to the new officials of the college. We were \-ery pleased to leam that we would not be losing the REV. GEORGE F. BENAGLIA. C.S.C. Father Benaglia's many eood friends in the Boston area-will, be glad" to know that he is continuing at North Easton devoting his entire time to conducting the Seminary. 

AL BIRMINGHAM missed the 25-year reunion of his class at school due to illness but we understand that he is on the road to recovery now. We were also glad to hear that JIM DOOLEY, one of our strongest supporters, is also a comalescent after having been seriously ill. 
Many of the members are familiar with the fact that JOH-N BRESNAHAN was doing all he could to assist Mr. TAYLOR, the blind veteran who gradu­ated from Notre Dame last >-ear. John has been successful in having Mr- Taylor join the State Bureau dealing with the blind. TTic energy and industry that Taylor has displas-ed so far should be a great asset to the State Bureau. 
We thought a Notre Dame community would begin to develop in Newtonville when President MORAN mo\-ed out two doors from JOHN HERBERT. Now John Herbert becomes a land owner in Needham where he and the bank have bought a new home. 
JACK NYE DUFFEY. 

Buffalo 
Top Notre Dame recent activity in the Buffalo area is reported by the new Wi^-es Club of Notre Dame alumni of Buffalo. MRS. EDWARD T. FLANIGAN is president of the feminine group, which in the summer had two meetings, a square dance and a family picnic. From the proceeds of the dance, the wives sent $18.75 to the Notre Dame Foundation for the purchase of a sa\-ing5 bond. 
Cleveland 
The annual picnic was held at Gilmour Academy on Sunday, July 24. The event was a big success. Coffee, pop, 30 cases of beer, and everything else disappeared. A fine job was done by ED MURRAY, chairman, VIC GULYASSY and'others.who helped.. 
The annual.Golf.Party was held at Sleepy Hollow-Country Club on Aug. 19. An enjoyable round of golf was followed by dinner. CREIGHTON MIL­LER was chairman. Thirty prizes were awarded and the winner of the trophy for the lowest round of golf was LARRY KR.AL. 

The Scholarship Award for the coming school year was made by the committee to CHARLES NOLL, a recent graduate of Benedictine High School. CLAYTON LEROUX, chairman, THOMAS F. BYRNE, BOB DOWD. and JOE BREIG deserve a note of thanks. The club looks forward to great thii ^ from the winner. 
At a recent meeting of club ofEcers at Rohr*s Restaurant, FRANK PAYNE was appointed perma­nent corresponding secretary of the club. 
The annual Summer Dance was held Aug. 27 at Manakiki Country Club. RAY T. &ULLER, JR., BOB LALLY and DICK MAIER comprised the committee, assisted by Mrs. Pat Canny and Bob Dowd. WILLIAM H. GRIFFY. 
Central New York 
JIM HUXFORD played host to about thirty club members at the Skaneateles Country Club. Jim copped the hole in one prize and the secret score, while BILL KELLEY (Paul W., JR.) *42, on leave from the Federal Bureau of Investigation, won honors for low gross. Roast beef dinner was on the agenda and all bad a very enjoyable swim in beautiful Skaneateles Lake after the golf game. Everyone was elated over the elevation of REV. THEODORE H. HESBURGH, C.S.C., Syracuse resident, to the 
. office of executive vice-president and a letter express­ing wishes for success was dispatched from Skane­atdes. 
In the additions to family dept.: BOB GAFFNEY, *•©, and wife, Kay,—a girl. CongrattUations! Same to TOM SNYDER on graduation from S^xacuse College of Medicine. 
JACK McAULIFFE, DAN KELLEY, BOB McAULIFFE, LEO KELLEY, GEORGE KINNEY, and .-JACK TERRY attended the. second annual golf-dinner of the Central New York Catholic Inter-
The wires of alanmi in Bufialo, N. Y., hare fonnecl a WITM' dub, conducted two meotings, aoned a pcesident and sponicrod a square dance ond a family picnic. Above youll find the delightful evidence of the picnic. The group plans increased activitieSe Officers of the Cincmnati Club are. seotecL from left: President, John C. Cottingham and Vxce-Prendent Robert C Burke. Standing: Treasurer, V^lliam A. Grafe, |r» and 
Secretary, Bernard N. Brockman. Jr. 
collegiate Alumni Association at the S>Tacuse Yacht and Countzy Club. Plans were made for a fall Communion Breakfast. Representatives from 12 Catholic Colleges attended. John Terry was elected treasurer of the unit. 
A reminder to all club members to turn their ticket stubs and returns in by Nov. 3. The drawng will be held at the Licderkranz Club in Syracuse with the officers and board of directors present. 
BOB KfcAULIFFE is running this ticket activity, assUlcd by PHIL KELLY, '50. JACK MULDERIG is giving a lot of help too. JIM WHITE, captain of the New York football Giants, was the feature at a luck-ofT luncheon on Aug. 24 when books were distributed. 
JOHN H. TERRY. 

Detroit 
The club had its annual golf party on July 21 at Bonnie Brook Golf Club. TOM SHEEHAN was chairman, assisted by DAN HENRY on publicity^ MARV MARTIN for prizes and BERT BAUR for general council. Seventy five were present. 
We were pleased to have as our guests FATHER ROBERT H. SWEENEY and BOB CAHILL from Notre Dame, and FATHER JOHN DUPUIS who is teaching philosophy at King's College, and who during the summer helped out at St. Theresa's Parish in Detroit. The luck of the Irish was with Father Sweeney and Bob Cahill because they both walked away with prizes. ^larv Alartin shot a 72 which kept him happy all evening. 
The highlight of the evening was the presentation by our club of a check for $500 to the Notre Dame Foundation for the new Science Building. 
Our annual fcratball trip will be to Notre Dame on October 15 for the Tulane game, and'we expect to have 1,000 with us from Detroit that day. LOUIS 
P. MALONE is chairman of the football trip. 
MAL KNAUS. 

Fort Wayne 
The summer news of the dub centered around the annual summer party that %vas held out at ED WESNER'S farm. A gratifying turnout of around 75 attended and all joined in the fun. The old giads iaduding ROBERT GORDON, FRED SCHOPPMAN, ED BAKER and JIM FOOHEY showed tbdr talents in a softfaall game. They were batting against the sUmts of REV. STANLEY MA­NOSKI who claims membership in the dub by virtue of attending summer school at Notre Dame. DICK SCHEELE and BOB KEARNEY were the general chairmen for the event and did a splendid job. 
BARNEY BANNON, a former South Bend stal­wart, is now working at the Great Lakes Distributing Co., Fort Wayne division, and has _ become an active member of our dub. 
ED DISSER has been named general chairman of the Fort Wa>'ne Horse Show which is run off for charity. 
ED. HOCH became the proud father of a bounc­ing baby boy. Ed has two girls. 
The next event is a bazaar to be held in the fall at the William S. O'Rourke estate. 
BYRON HAYES. 

Ft. Smithy Arkansas 
RAYMOND A. MARRE, '37, is prcsideat of the newly-oTganized Notre Dame did> in Ft. South, with DUVAL JOHNSTON, '37, as vice-pi«BdeBt» DAVID JOHNSTON, '43, as secretarr and HUGH CORRELL, '38, as treasurer. 
The small but dynamic group got off to a idiiri­wind start on Aug. 3 when FRANK LEAHY, bead football coach at Notre Dame, Jc^in BamhOI, head coach of the Univcrsitr oS Arkansas, and BERNIE WnUCKI , of the football staff at the Univcrsitr of Tulsa, traveled from a coachii^ clinic at Hot Springs, Ark., to attend a buffet-smc^wr and party sponsored by the club for an overflow crowd. AU three spoke, with Leahy and Bamhill ' ansiMcrins many questions from the floor. IVesident "Mxm presided. 
Greater Miami 
The dub wdcomed 40 NROTC students from Notre Dame to its meeting on July 13. In Miami on the U.S.S. Cabot for two da^, tliey reached the Downtown C3ub in time to. join the session.. 
Sixty-«ne almnni, wives and children attended tlw club picnic at Ciandon Park on July 24. Alumni present for the highly successful e\-ent induded: JULES BERCIK, GEORGE BRAUTIGAM, JERRY HOLLAND, HERB NADEAU, FRED JONES. Bn.L NAGENGAST, PARIS GOWART, I. I. PROBST, FRED PIOWATY, BERN.ARD GOOD, JERRY OUELETTE, PETE SHEEHAN, TOM CARROLL, HOWARD KORTH, ROBERT HOS­HER, and BILL McSHANE. 
On Aug. 3 plans were made for the disposal of a RCA television set, «rith half the ptofits to go to the Foundation and half to the dnb. The ciciEt for the project goes to WALTER. ROWLANDS. Flans were also made for the tdeviaon reception of Notre Dame games at dub football parties this bll. 
I. I. IVobst is in charge. 
Faris Cowart had a part in **Here Comes Bfr. Jordan," staged by the Coral Gables Chib. FRED JONES. 
Kansas City 
Mr. and Mis. FRANK E. DUGAN, JR., were killed in an automobile accident.near Rcinceton, ID., on July 2. Frank %vas a member of the daos of '44. His wife was the former Elizabeth Cole, a sister of WILLIAM N. COLE of the class of '35. 
Coach Frank Leahy helped Itiuneh the new Fl Smith. Jlric dob nAm, on Aog. 3. h« 
•poke at o dub gathering. From the left ore: Leahr. Baymowl Blone. pcMtdaat of th« dub, and Coadi John Bomhill oi the XTniTeiaiir oi AritoBMH. Bend* Witadi. a eoadi at the UniTersitY oi Ttilsa. was another mieaker. 
She was also a cousin of JOHN, GEORGE, and JOSEPH COLE, all alumni of Notre Dame. The couple were sumved by two daughters. In addition Frank is sur\'i\ed by his parents, one brother, and four sisters; and Elizabeth is survived by her mother and brother. 
The club held its annual picnic on Aug. 6. The alumni indulged iu hoiseshoe pitching and baseball, while their wi^-cs and friends plaj-ed croquet and talked. The only casualty of the evening (except the usual sore muscles) occurred when JOE STEW.-\RT was bitten by a donkey while pla\'ing center field. The following were present: ED McGR.^TH, DR. 
D. M. NIGRO, GERRY SMITH, JOE STEW.ART, JIM HIGGINS, NORMAN BOWES, BILL COLE, BILL MURRAY, BOB PENDERG.AST, DR. JIM DOWNEY, ED REARDON, B.ARNEY QUIRK, GENE MURRAY, TOM REARDON, DR. AL NIGRO, BILL DUNN, BILL McLEESE, FRANK GRIMALDI, FRANK TOYNE, JIM CLEMENS, BERNARD FINUCANE, JOE V.\NT)YKE, EDDIE O'CONNOR, DAVE CROOKS, LARRY LYNCH, MARTIN SILADY, and JOE STEWART, JR. 
BOB PENDERG.AST. 
La Crosse, Wisconsin 
.AUGUST M. GRAMS, '28. is president of the dub, JOSEPH W. MURPHY is vice-president, and DAVID F. HYDE, '40, is secretary-treasurer. The club has this year given $50 to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Michigan City 
The second annual "Irish Greens Party" was held at the Long Beach Country Club on July 27. Two hundred and nineteen attended, including Vice-President REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S-C, Ath­leu'c Director MOOSE KRAUSE and the coaching staff, GEORGE CONNOR of the Chicago Bears and ELMER ANGSMAN of the Chicago Cardinals, Chairman \*-as HUGHIE BURNS. 
Eight>--onc prizes »*ere distributed by President FRANCIS FEDDER. Secretary- JOH.\ DONNELLY reports no one injured and no one lost on course. The club plans to accommodate three hundred at its golf party next year-
The club is sponsoring a trip from Michigan City to the Purdue game in West Lafayette on Oct. 1. Proceeds vnU go to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Monongahela Valley {Pa.) 
Three meetings since last publication: Devlin's, Mary Mount and George Martinet's. The club has proWded baseball trophies for the winners and nin­ncTS up of the Mon Valle>- Catholic Youth League and presented them at the league banquet held tn Charleroi. 
JIM RUSSELL, Donora high coach, was selected head coach of one of the all-star teams playing under the Dapper Dan auspioes at Forbes Field, Aug. 23. DR. MATT WARD and LOU APONE are enter­taining the club members and their family at Apone*5 farm, Sept. 18. (Annual corn roast). 
The club will hold a day of recollection for mem­bers and guests at Mary Mount late in October. A definite campaign is to be launched to aid the Foundation by chairman DEAN. PALUSO, BLACK, APONE, WARD. ROLMAN, MONTGOMERY, DEVLIN and WELSH are on football ticket com­mittee to aid the Foundation fund. 
New Jersey 
The club has its program set up for the year as follou-s: Sept. 7. Freshman Welcome; Oct. 24, Foot­ball Rally and Raffle; De c 11, Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday; a winter meeting in Fcbniarj-; April 17, Universal Notre Dame Night; club election in May; and a picnic in June. 
CLARK REYNOLDS, treasurer, sent all members a club financial report on Aug. 30, showing a cash balance as of .Aug. 1 of $485.28. 
New York City 
A Golf Day was held Aug. 23 at the Lcewood Country Club, Tuckahoc and, although attendance was small, enthusiasm was high for making this a regular event in future summer programs. RAY BUSHEY had the best score. FRANK CONFORTI, JACK HOYT, and TOM LANTRY are to be con­gratulated for their fmc job in promoting the affair. 
An innovation for the club ^^-ns the Pre-School Dance and Reception to be held Sept. 9 in the Hotel Commodore as a means of welcoming the freshmen and other undergraduates before the fall term began. President MURRAY of the Met Club gave the frtshmen a "briefing"' on campus life. Music u-as by FRANK WALTHER, '25, and his orchestra. 
Bans for the rail trip to the Na\y game in Balti­more are de\-eloping and will be announced to the membeiship shortly. CHARLES McCAULEY is ch^rman. 
TIERNEY O'ROURKE is adding a new note to the North Carolina game H-eekend by announcing a Reception to be held Nov. 12, after the game, from 5 to 7:30 in the Ninth Floor Lounge of the New York Athletic Club. It is felt this reception v^'Il fill a long felt need for an activity after the game. Ad­mission will be $1.00, including tax, at the door or by writing JOHN A. HOYT, JR., Room 620, 342 Madison Avenue, New York. 
Tiemcy and iL\RTIN CALLAGY, chairmen of the Rally on Nov. 11 at the Billmore, announce com­pletion of their plans. Entertainment will be under the sponsorship of £d Sullivan, famed columnist and television MC, and music by Frank Walther. Ad­mission is $6 per person, including tax, and tickets may be obtained from Jack Hnyt at the address gi\-en above. 
BOB HAMILTON announces the start of his an­nual Trust Fund Dri^-e which will culminate with the announcement of North Carolina game ticket H-inners on Nov. 9 at the Hotel Biltmore. With the game already sold out it seems likely that the dri\'e will be a big success because it offers an op­portunity for at least a chance at a pair of tickets. Bob also announced the selection of two more schol­arship winners who will begin at school in September. 
The report of club activities in the May-June issue of the ALUUNUS failed to state that the Glee Club concert was independently sponsored by a group of club members led by JOHN BALFE and LARRY MADIGAN. 
Northern Calijornia 
As soon as we received word of RALPH HAVI­LAND*S death, we made arrangements for the redtation of the Rosary at his wake, and at Mrs. Haviland's request, we arranged f«r six pallbearers. Many members appeared for the recitation of the rosary as well as for the Mass the next day. The pallbearers were: BILL DALY, PAUL GUSHING, KEENE FIT^PATRICK, BILL YORE, GEORGE THOMAS, and DON ALLEN. In addition to this, we arranged to have a Mass said for Ralph. 
On June 23 we had another meeting of the club in San Francisco. There was a large turnout and it proved to be a wry successful evening. Honored guests included PAT 0*DEA, former coach at Notre Dame in 1900-01; JIM WASSON, '13, and PAUL SMITHERS, '15. 
Pat O'Dea was particularly entertaining as be mocfcstly told of the early da>-s of football when the kicking pla>-ed such an important role. In his own inimitable style he told how he nonchalantly stepped back and drop-kicked the ball, or as he said, "pasted it through the uprights" some 57 yards auay. Or another time, on an attempted run when he was rushed by the opponents, he again nonchalantly "pasted it through the uprights," this time only some 50 yards away. 
Jim Wasson and Paul Smithers, both early track stars for the University, told of their experiences and what enjoyment they received while at Notre Dame. It was Jim Wasson's son who took the en­closed photographs. 
SLIP KfADIGAN ser\-ed as master of ceremonies and did an excellent job. The arrangements for the meeting were \-ery ably handled by BILL DALY, our vice-president; PAUL GUSHING: DICK FUTTE; and KEENE FITZPATRICK. 
The present students at Notre Dame who come from this area were also very well represented. JACK NEUMAYR was accompanied by his father. Dr. George Neumayr, and BOB HUNTER was acoompanied by his father. Bob Hunter, who pro\-ed an angel jn assisting for the projection of the foot­ball highlights of the 1948 season. All the members who attended were very greatly impressed wth the movies and asked that I express their appreciation tor the University's sending the movies to us. 
DON ALLEN. 

This was the head table at the dinner of the Northern California club in Son Francisco on June 23. From the left: Bill DOIY* Paul Gushing. Bill Yore. George Thomas, Prendent Don Allen. Slip Madigan. Father McKenna. Paul Smithers, Pot ODea, Hm Wasson and 
Keene Fxtzpatrick. 
North Florida 
The club held the regular monthly meeting at the U. S. Naval Air Station at Jacksonville at the Officers' Club. It was well attended by all the dub members and their wives. There was a cocktail party, dinner and entertainment after the dinner. A soft shoe dance put on by FRED RAHAIM and ED DURKIN with Mrs. Durkin at the piano was a knockout. HARRY FROMME sang. 
The following officers were elected: president, JOHN F. LANAHAN; vice-president, NED FISH­WICK; secretary and treasurer, GEORGE P. COYLE. Board of directors: LESTER FOLEY, TED TWOMEY and ED DURKIN. 
GEO. P. COYLE. 

Oregon 
With the Pendleton Round-Up getting under way about the time the ALUMNUS goes to press, let*s round-up some of the local gang and find out what they are doing. We have corralled only about half the herd, but the rest will be in before the winter. 
Fitting it is that DR. WILLIAM A. SHEA, '02, should lead the parade, vigorous and respected leader in his profession that he is. Judge FRANK J. LONERGAN, 'W, rccendy toastmastercd the open­ing luncheon of the national K. of C. convention here in the City of Roses. DOM CALLICRATE, '08, carries the ball tn public relations for the Foster & Kleiser outdoor advertising company (paid adv.} with all the class he quarterbacked the 1S07 \'arsity. Foundation Governor BILL SCHMITT, '10, is a local steel man. Associated with him is EUGENE R. SCHMITT, '26. 
GEORGE W. PHILBROOK, 12. is a leading sports figure and gets hts bread as a special agent for Travelers Insurance. Looking in on us occasionally from across the Columbia River, BILL CLEAVER, '14, is title ofiicer and v-p. of an abstract outfit. Partner in one of Oregon's best knou*n road-build­ing outfits is MORRISON A. CONWAY, '14, of Cascade Construction. Recovered from a recent minor operation, HUGH V. LACEY, '16, is back at his v-p. desk at Phil Grossmayer Co.,—(yes, in­surance again!). REV. FRANCIS P. GOODALL, C.S.C., '20, has just left us for parish work in South Bend. Father Goodall was alwa>-s a gracious host at University of Portland along wiih REV. THEO­DORE J. MEHLING, C.S.C, whose reappointment as president wc hail. Father MEHLING has made an outstanding record in his first term as leader of the fastest growing school in Oregon. "The Oregon­ian" recently editorialized on his contributions to education in this state. 
AR»' BUIINE, '21, is local manager for F. Mat-tern Mfg. Co., dealers in x-ray and electrical medi­cal equipment. JIM CULLIGAN, also of '21, is treasurer of University of Portland. Jim should need some new bookkeeping machines with the ex­pansion going on. CHARLIE HIRSCHBUHL, '22, is set to squire the second of his daughters altarward this month. Pleasant diversion from his duties as president of Monarch Forge & Machinery Co. KARL 
J. BARR, '23, came up the fifty miles from Salem for U.N.D. Night and brought a couple of friends. Hope to see him again next month, if he can get away from the booming building game. He heads a heating equipment company. 
ALBERT M. (Duke) HODLER, '23, is sparking our finance committee and putting the treasury back on its feet. IVAN C. SHARP, ako '23, claims to be retired but seems to be very active doing it. L. 
B. (BARNEY) MACNAB recently took in a partner in a ne%v insurance venture. NORB KAVANAUGH, '26, continues a leading light legally despite severe ph>'sical handicaps. Just around the corner from him, DR. RALPH M. PR.-\G, '26, carries on his huge surgical practice. Ralph is grooming his son, John, for the 1955 fullback job. 
THOMAS D. McMAHON, '27, is a barrister of note. .ARNOLD B. (Pete) PETERSCHMIDT, '27, is dean of the College of Business Ad. at the Vm­versity of Portland and our office can vouch for a couple of his products. PHIL BERTHIAUME, '28, should be passed over in silence, despite his out­standing record as regional manager of Bankers Life, because he was chief conspirator in giving me this Job as scribe. But even an Irishman gets winded and we'll sign ofT for now. Sec you at Seattle. Thar's gold in them thar hills! Come on, you Irish! TOM MAGEE. 
At the K. of C. convention held in Portland, Aug. 15-18, I contacted some of the Notre Dame boj'S— among the group present were: DR. D. P. NOLAN, '23. of St. Vincent College, Latrobe, Pa.; JOHN ROCAP, '34, of Indianapolis; J. CONROY SCOG­GINS, '24, Houston, who was elected a supreme director; and ROBERT E. SULLIVAN, *40, dele­gate from Indiana and a law professor at Notre Dame. 
Bob SuUivan came over to the house and we got the **dopc" on the new Law .-\ssociation now formed. PETE S.-VNDROCK. 
Pittsburgh 
GENE COYNE and CARL LINK were well re­warded for their cfTortS when the annual golf outing and dinner turned out to be one of the best parties the club has had in a long time. It was held on 
The PiHsburgh dub wilh a lugUy successful golf party and an equally successful family picnic set a fast summer pace. Here is part of the crowd which participated in the golfing festivities. 
July U at the Dutler Country Club. Forty members and guests pla>-cd golf. Low net score was turned in by Bob Drum and low gross score by Arnold I^ilmer of Wake Forest. Other winners were £ D FAY, D. Pahner, JACK MURRIN. JACK SHEE^ DY, W. Turner. BILL ROCKENSTEIN. BILL SCHNEIDER, JACK McGOVERN, DON FTTZ­PATRICK, BUCK McARDLE, BILL O'BRIEN, Joe McDonough, LARRY OTOOLE, GENE COYNE, JACK McSORLEY, BOB WILSON, FATHER VINCE BRENNAN, Ed Kiely, and T. Trainor. Golf balls were awarded as prizes. 
Steak and chicken diniKrs were served to an augmented crowd of 70 members and guests. TIGHE 
E. WOODS, national faotising boss, and Athletic Director ED KRAUSE were special guests. 
Alore than 200 attended the dtib's Family Hcnic at the Lodge in North Park on Aug. 4. It was an all-day affair. Athletic events, contests, games and flancing were all pronded for at the Lodge itself, and golf, tennis, and swimming were available dse­where in the park. From all reports every one had a wonderful time at this affair, the first of itS kind for the Club, at least within recent yean. Comment indicated that all would like to see it repeated e\ery year. 
Notre Dame T-shirts were given free, to all youngsters up to 14 >'ears. Candy and peanuts were also prorided free as well as all the soft drinks that could be consumed. Delicious picnic dinners were served to adults and children continuously from 4 to 7 P.M. Ice cold beer was .available throughout the day. Awards were made to the boys and girls for winning races and games, and ten magnificent door prizes were distributed to the holders of lucky num­bers, including an electric toaster, iron, waffle iron, radio, car\-ing set, etc. The evenii^ was climaxed with the grand drawing of the $1,0000 prize. 
The club is particularly grateful to REGIS LA­VELLE, NEIL GALONE, and Gene Coyne who were chiefly responsible for the successful picnic. Special bouquets for hard and effective work should go to JOE DliLVTTEO, JOE PAPA, DON MAR­TIN, BERNIE LYNCH, BOB HAGAN, BILL MA­GARRALL, LARRY ENRIGHT, ED McHUGH, L.\RRY O'TOOLE, JACK MONTEVERDE, BOB KVATSAK, BOB CHAMBERLAIN and GEORGE KINGSLEY. 
Several prominent guests were among those pres­ent, including FATHER RILEY, assistant editor of "The Catholic Boy." 
About two weeks before the picnic a telephone check was made on the club list to promote interest in the picnic and, secondarily, to correct addresses. .-\ word of thanks for a long e\'ening of telephoning should be extended to the teams of Neil Galone and JOHN REARDON, Regis Lavelle and Don Martin, JOHN BRILEY and Jack Monte\-crde, Gene Coyne and Bob Fulton,—BOB FULTON 
Quad Cities 
The club held a family picnic at Spiingbrook Sportsman's Club, DcWitt, la., on June 25. The picnic was well attended by 109^including members, their wives, and children, and present students and their families. Those in charge of the picnic were RALPH CORYN, JERRY ARNOLD and RALPH EHR. 
Twenty-two wi^-es of Quad City Notre Dame Club members met for luncheon on July 27 at Bogaert's Harms Hotel, Rock Island, SI. The hostesses were Mesdames EDMUND MEAGHER and FRANCIS 
T. McGUIRE, both of Rock Island. 
The wives expect to meet once a month for luncheon. Mesdames D. J. HICKEY, TSX, Daven­port, CAMIEL BRACKE, MoUne, and JAMES GALLIGAN, Rock Island, were named city chair­men. Those who were not in attendence and who arc interested should get in touch with their city chairman. 
Mrs. Coryn and Mrs. Bradke, both of Moline, will be hostesses at the next meeting Aug. 31 at the LeQaire Hotel, Moline. 
RALPH J. EHR. 

Members of the San Diego club had two broadcasts on Universal Notre Dame Night. Participating in one of them, over KUSN, were, left to right: Fred Stebbins, Fred Lower, President Al Stewart, Emmett McCabe and Jim Barrett. 
Rock River Valley {Illinois) 
The club's annual stag picnic was held at JOE BITTORF'S lodge, Sterlmg, 111., on Aug. 21. The Notre Dame film, "Highlights of the 1948 Football Season'*, was shown and assorted prizes were dis­tributed, among them an all-expense trip to the Washington-N.D. game in Seattle. Trap shooting, rifle target shooting, softball, horseshoes and speed­boat rides on the Rock River were just a few of the added attractions. Seventy-five were present from Sterling, Dixon, Rochelle, Freeport, Rockford, DeKalb, Amboy, Oregon, Asliton and Mendota. 
.At the picnic plans were discussed to continue the 
Rock River Valley Notre Dame scholarship each 
year. 
JOHN H. CAHILL. 
San Diego 
Univcisal Noire Dame Night was celebrated by the club on April 25. We had two 15-minute broad­casts over two local radio stations. Participants were in addition to m>-seU UGO ROSSI. JACK Mc CLAREN, WALTER STEFFAN, J.AMES E. BAR­RETT. FRED LOWER, EMMEIT McCABE and FRED STEBBINS. Tlie theme of the broadcasts was the scientific acliicvemcnts at Notre Dame and both progranti were keyed to the scripts furnished us from scliool. 
In tlie evening the club held a dinner at the U. S. Grant Hotel. Tlie honored guest and principal speaker was Verj' Rev. Joseph L. Gallagher, O.S.S.­A.M., president and principal of St. .Augustine's High Scliool. The balance of the program consisted of entertainment by a local magician and the show­ing of color mones of the Noire Dame-Southern California Game. A contribution of $10!) to St. Augustine's High School was voted. 
I vcr\- modestly report that I was honored with being presented the scroll naming me as the out­standing' Notre Dame man of the year in the club. I consider this a great honor and the award will be one of my most treasured items of life. Tlie elec­tion of oIfi(^rs for the year 1949-1950 was held and all officere were elected to continue for a second term. 
On Aug. II. the club had a combined business meeting and dinner at the newly constructed Admiral Kidd Officer's Club in San Diego. A committee was appointed to make plans for a family picnic held Aug. 2ft. It was also unanimously decided that the club would make a contribution of $10 to the Van Wallace film fund. 
W. .ALBERT STEWART, 

St. Louis 
The club of St. Louis, which now numtjers nearly three hundred members, has not been too active during the summer months. President, JOHN J. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

GRIFFIN, JR., Vice President. JAMES J. O'NEAL, Treasurer, THOMAS J. TREACY, and Secretary, 
J. WARREN HELLRUNG, have been busy how­ever planning for the coming fall. 
Members assembled on May 25 to pay final respects to DR. THOMAS R. KENNEDY, '17, who passed away on May 23. Notre Dame and those who knew Dr. Kennedy shall miss him. 
The annual St. Louis No:re Dame picnic was held on July 24 and Chairman HENRY L. DAHM, JR., reports that it exceeded in attendance all previous picnics. This was due in part to the fact that trained counselors were hired to take care of the children for the entire day. Mom and Dad had fun. 
DR. B. D. COUGHLIN, chairman of the Foot­ball Trips Committee, announces that the club will sponsor two football trips this fall; the Southern California game at Notre Dame, on Nov. 26, and the Southern Methodist game, at Dallas, on Dec. 
3. Response to date has been excellent. Profits go to tlic St. Louis Club scholarship fund. 
Plans are still under way by our regular Founda­tion Committee (JOSEPl'l B. McGLYNN, DR. COUGHLIN and WALTER GEORGE) to donate whatever time is required to successfully follow-through on the University's program to erect a new Science Building. St. Louis will more than do its share. WARREN HELLRUNG. 
Wabash Valley-
BILL RUNGE, secretary-, sends word that the club will have a smoker and alumni get-together on Friday evening, Oct. 7, starting at 8 o'clock. That's the day before the Purdue-Notre Dame game in West Lafayette. All alumni and their friends are in\ited. 
Washington, D. C. 
The club is making plans for the big Xa\y game Rally to be held in Washington in the Washington Hotel, the evening before the Notre Dame-Na\->­
The club in Washington, D. C, had its annual retreat on June 17-18-19 at Holy Cross College. Leo Mulqueen, was the retreat chairman. Rev. Philip C Kelly, C.S.C., was the retreol master and Rev. Bernard E. Hansing, C.S.C., superior of Holy Cross College, was 
the generous host. 
Front Row: Father Ransing, Bill Ka\-anaugh, '27, Pat Gorman, MO, Leo Mulqueen, '17, J. Har\'ey Daly, '28, Bill Karl, '31, Haro' Kirk, '13, Father Kelly. 
Second Row: Paul Tully, '39, Bob Mullen, '37, Bill Cour, Tom Flynn, '35, George Haithcock, '39, Fran­cis Andary, '32, Dick Rozier. 
Third Row: Joe Fitanaurice, '36, John .Anderson, '31, Victor ifersch, '19, Bill Jones, '28, Val Dcale, '39, Carl Julian, '-IS. Dan Culhanc, '23, Jack Mc-Dcvitt. 
Fourth Row: Bob Fredcrickes, Mylcs Quail, Sr., John Kenkle, '33, T. H. Shechan, Joe Hennessey, '39. Laro" Moore, '29, wasn't present when the pic­ture H'as taken. 
game in Baltimore. WALT SHORT is chairman in charge. 
Flans are also made for the club traveling to­gether to the North Carolina game in New York City. 
Our club's friendly luncheons continue every Tues­day at the Touchdown Club in Washington, D. C. under the management of EDWARD FENLON, Ml. This has been a very successful project. 
Weekend hotel rcscr\-ations are available for folks of the Washington area who plan to make a long weekend of the North Carolina-Notre Dame game weekend in New York. Those Interested in New York rcser\'ations may contact the Notre Dame club headquarters in Washington. 
President PAT GORNfAN, MO, has made the following appointments for some of the programs on the Washington, D. C. club calendar for this year: the Housing Expediter appointment goes to ED FENLOX; chairman of the Civic Affairs Committee is FR/\NK NOEL, '30; J. HARVEY DALY, *28, is the placement chairman; DON STOCKING, M8, is chairman of the Notre Dame-North Carolina foot­ball game trip. 
JACK BARBER, '3G, treasurer of our local news­paper, "The Times-Herald," has just recently pur­chased a home. President PAT GORMAN was recently elected the Washington delegate for the United Stales Junior Chamber of Commerce. FATHER FRED DIGBY, '39, received his Master's degree at Catholic University and is starting his work as executive director of the Associated Catholic Charities in New Orleans. ED CONROY, '30, of San Antonio, was in town for a visit; he is now ad\*isor to the mayor of Alamo City. EUGENE COYLE, '31, is with the Bureau of Internal Revenue. 
REV. DANIEL KIRK, son of HARRY KIRK, '13, was ordained a priest in the Benedictine Order. MATT MERKLE, '39, recently vacationed in the state of Washington. DAVE SLATTERY, M8, sports writer for the "Daily News" recently rapped out a base hit ofT Lefty Grove during a recent newspaper exhibition game. 
GEORGE HOWARD, '38, became the father of a Uttle girl on June 2. STAN LITIZZETTE, '42, and DO.V McGINLEV, '42. are in Washington studying law. BOB FLYNN, '42, is a practicing dentist in Washington. JAMES P. O'LAUGHLIN, '42, is a captain in the Marines with the Judge Advocate General. 
The club had its annual retreat on June 17, 18 and 19. 1949, under the chairmanship of LEO MULQUEEN. with F.ATHER R.ANSIXG and his seminarians. Holy Cross College, handling all facili­ties beautifully. Twenty-seven Washington, D. C , men were there. They are most indebted to the retreatmaster, FATHER KELLY. C.S.C., for the fine work he did. Interest in this retreat has grown each year and we expect 35 percent of the club members to be present for the'next retreat. 
PAUL TULLY. 


Luncheon for Lawyers in St. Louis 
Left to right are: Joseph B. McGIynn, '12, Archbishop Hitter, Robert J. Callahan, '48, o! St. Louis who arranged the luncheon. Dean Manion and Professor Sullivan. 
The first annual luncheon of the Notre Dame Law Association was held as a part of the proceedings of the American Bar .Association convention in St. Louis on Sept. 7. Notre Dame lawyers from all parts of the United States were in attend­ance and heard short addresses by Most Rev. Joseph E. Rittcr, archbishop of St. Louis; Robert E. Sullivan, e.\ecutive sec­rctar>* of the association and professor of law in the University; and Clarence Man-ion, dean of the Law School. Guests in addition to Archbishop Ritter included Luke Hart, supreme advocate of the Knights of Columbus; John Griffin, presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis, and Robert Hcllrung, former vice-president of the Alumni Association. 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^MMM^^NM^t^^^^^^^MWVW^^V^VM^^^ 
NOTRE DAME SWEATERS 
How proud your youngster will be . . . and how cute he'll look! Fine wool knit sweaters in Notre Dame colors. Genuine varsity sweaters! Large, contrasting chenille letter. Sizes 2 to 8. Cardigan style shown above . . . $4.95 plus 15c for mailing. 
USE THECOUPON 
Notre Dame Book Store Notre Dame, Indiana 

Gentlemen: 
Please send me.. ..Notre Dame 
(quantity) 

"Joe College Jr." sweater(s). Enclosed you will find my check (or money order) for $ 
Size information: 

Age Circle S M or L de­pending on your child's size compared with other children of the same age. 
Name .. 
Address 
City Zone.. 
State ... 
Student Trip to N. Y. C. 

Yankee Stadium in New York City wU be the destination of this year's student trip. The North Carolina game, on Nov. 12 was selected for this season's trip by the Student Council, after a poll of the students, taken last spring, revealed it as the top choice by far. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

e alumnt 
Engagements 
Miss Susan Monti and EUGENE S. BLISH, '34. 

Miss Benita Anne Gutlirie add JOHN M. CONSI­DINE, '49. 
Miss Mai>- Fatrida Dugan and JOHN J. DUN­1.EAVY, '47. 
Miss Joan Agnes HofTman and RICHARD R. Mc-CABE, '48. 
Miss Helen Merrick Welsh and OWEN A. Mc-GOLDRICK, JR., ex-43. 
Miss Anne Baranj' and JAMES H. MONSEREZ, «-49. 
Afiss Allison Faxton White and WILLIAM H. VEIT, JR., ex.47. 
Miss Esther Moran and ARNAUD J. WILSON, '46. 
Marriages 

Miss Elizabeth Kaltenacler and GIUDO A. ALEX­ANDER, '44, Notre Dame, Sept. 7. 
Miss Patricia Sue Wilkin and MARK J. BANTVION, '47, son of John M. Bannon, '12, Notre Dame, Sept. 10. 
Miss Kathryn Kohne and JOSEPH BARBIERI, JR., '49, Fort Wa>-ne, July 2. 

Miss Patiida Aubertin and RICHARD O. BATJM­BAUER, '49, Wabash, Ind., Sept. 14. 
Miss Ruth Virginia Kiester and PHILIP J. BAYER, '38, Parkersburg, W. Va., July 30. 
Miss Mary Frances Reed and FRANK C. BLAS­lUS, '22, Da>1on, O., July 23. 
Miss Jean Beti and WILLIAM R. BROCKHOFF, '49, Cincinnati, O., Oct. 1. 
Miss Susan Wagner and RICHARD A. BROEREN, '49, Oshkosh, Wis., Aug. 27. 
Miss Kathryn Hyland and JAMES A. BYRNE, '40, 3<otre Dame, Aug. 27. 
Miss Dorothy Mae Hamilton, and RICHARD J. CHAPLEAU. '34, Indianapolis, July 2. Louis C. Chapleau, *30, brother of the bridegroom, served as iKst man. 
Miss Dona Joan Wilson and ROBERT E. COOK, 
•ex-49. South Bend, Sept. 3. 
Miss Ruth Caroline Drinkall and JAMES R. COS­TELLO, JR., '49, South Bend, Sept. 3. 
Miss Joan Aiken Masterson and J. HARVEY DALY, '28, Great Neck, L.I., N. Y., June 29. 
Miss Adelyne Sabones and THOMAS J. DEVAN­NY, '49, Notre Dame, July 23. 
Miss Jeannette Louise Harmon and EUGENE D. BOLLARD, '49, Notre Dame, Sept. 10. 
Miss Suzanne Marie Loughlin and RICHARD D. nONOGHUE, JR., '49, Toledo, O., June 25. 
Miss Cynthia Eusterman and OWEN W. DOYLE, '45, Rodiester, Minn., June 25. 
Mils Jeanne Breslin and ROBERT D. FINK, '49, Chicago, June 25. 
Miss Therese DeCouisey, sister of Vincent, '39, and William P., '42. to THOMAS A. FOLEY, '48, Notre Dame, Sept. 3. 
Miss Joanne Moeller and EUGENE J. GILES, '48, Mt. Pleasant, Mich., Aug. 13. 
Miss Mary Louise Manion and DONALD J. GATENS, '48, Evansville, Ind., Aug. 27. 
Miss Mary Patricia McCarthy and JOHN F. GUION, '49, Notre Dame, July 16. 
Miss Juanita Jean Marsh and M. BRUCE HAK­LAN, '49, South Bend, Aug. 20. 
Miss Louise J. Spycfaalski and C. HOWARD HORNUNG, '49, South Bend, Aug. 20. 
Miss Joan Reiter and EDWARD S. KAVA­NAUGH, '38, South Bend, Sept. 3. Eugene M. Quinn, '41, H'as best man. 
Miss Martha Jeanne Montgomery and JOHN R. KERSTEN, ex-H, Governor's Island, N. Y., Sept. 17. 
Miss Constance Brazer and WINFIELD S. KLINE, JR., ex-45, Reno, Nev., July 10. 
Miss Lillian Wass and CHARLES E. KOEGLER, ex-44, Mineola, N. Y., June 25. 
Miss Patricia Sammon and WALTER B. LA­BERGE, '44, River Forest, HI., Sept. 5. 
Miss Elizabeth Ann Fitzpatrick and JAMES G. LEARY, '49, Pittsburgh, Pa., July 30. 
Miss Mary Lucille Nally and JAMES H. LEHN, '48, South Bend, Aug. 28. 
Miss Betty Jane Kirchhrimer and ALVARO V. LESMEZ, '45, Flushing, L.L, N. Y., Sept. 10. 
Miss Teresa Goncer and LEO L. LINCK, '43, Reed City, Mich., June 25. 
Miss Rosemarie Moore and FREDERICK A. LLNDAHL, '48, Mishawaka, Ind., Aug. 27. 
Miss Mary Rose Fragomeni and ROBERT M. LUKES, '49, South Bend, Aug. 13. 
Afiss Kathrj-n Lucille Butler and CHARLES G. LYDEN, '44, Belhnore, N. Y., July 23. William M. Clemency, '45, was best man. 
Miss Anna Rose Faith and S.\MUEL L. Mo-QUAID, '43, son of Samuel L. McQuaid, '07, Du­luth, Minn., July 5. 
Miss Betty Katherine Kaszas and ROBERT J. MACKIN, '49, South Bend, Aug. 20. 
CLASS PICTDBES WANTED 
Amateur photographers, please note! 
The AIXJMNDS will be happy to receive ior posmble publicalion pictures taken of class groups, at parties, dinners, football games—at any sort of class gathering in any part of the country. 
Pictures for the club section come rather readily. Class pictures ore harder to get. A UtUe odTance planning will fill in the gap. 
Miss F^ggy E. Beriault and JAMES L. X(AR­CHELEWICZ, '49, South Bend, July 30. 
Miss Dorothy Maher and RICHARD P. NIEMER, '48, Hinsdale, lU., July 9. 
Miss Eleanore Frances Whalen and ROBERT A. OBERFELL, '45, White Rains, N. Y., Aug. 27. 
Miss Carolyn Mary Roberts and DONALD PAT­RICK, '48, Notre Dame, July 30. 
Miss Ruby Simmons and JOHN DILLON PAT­TERSON, '48, son of the late Dillon J. Patterson, '20, Gary, Ind., Sept. 3. 
Miss Sylvia Pincus and RABBI ALBERT A. PLOTKIN, '42, Seattle, Wash., Aug. 28. 
Miss Elizabeth McGarry and JOSEPH F. RUDD, 
•29, Oak Park, lU., June 25. 
Miss EmUy Dennard and JOHN R. SANT AMOUR, Murfreesboro, Tenn., June 18. 
Miss Elsie Ann Gyorkos and MARIO C. SANTA­ROSSA, '48, South Bend, Sept. 3. 
Miss Ann McCartney and RAYMOND J. SCHUB­MEHL, '21, South Bend, Aug. 13. Rev. Joseph T. McCartney, C.S.C., '26, brother of the bride, offi­ciated. 
Miss Barbara Ethel Btennan and ROBERT W. SNEE, '45, Chicago, Aug. 20. 
Miss Regina Milligan and JOHN G. SWEENEY, JR., '48, Chicago, May 14. 
Miss Terry Linehan and RICHARD A. VANDER WEGEN, ex-47, Eau Claire, Wis., June 18. 
Miss MarczUa K. Boisvert and CLINTON H. WATSON, '32, Waterloo, N. Y., July 2. Rev. Vic­tor J. Boisvert, C.S.C., performed the ceremony and Harold V. Boisvert, '40, was best man. 
Miss Lora Nimtz and DONALD B. WHITE, '49, South Bend, Sept. 17. 
Miss Lois Jeanne Robinson and RALPH E. WI­TUCKI, '49, South Bend, Sept. 3. 
Miss Adeline Louise Huj-s and CHESTER W. WOODKA, '39, North Judson, Ind., July 1. 
Miss Anne Veronica Walsh and GEORGE E. YORK, '42, Schenectady, N. Y., July 19. 
Miss Helen Ledvina and GUSTAVE A. ZUEHL­KE, '43, Manitowoc, Wis., July 30. 
Born fo 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLLUH F. AHER.N, JR., '39, a son, Steven Francis, recently. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH D. ANDERSON, '49, a son, Curtis William, Aug. 6. Daniel Curtis, '17, is the proud grandfather. 
Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR O. ARAGON, '48, a daughter, Aug. 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN LEE BARINGER, ex-46, a son, John Lee, Jr., Aug. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL A. BERTSCH, '29, a son, Robert Louis, July 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. BENJAMIN BEYRER, '35, a dai^hter, Elizabeth Ellen, Aug. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD H. BIRREN, '47, a son, Sept. 8. 

Mr. and Mn. DOMINIC F. BOETTO, '44, a daughter, Mary Susan, July 5. 
Mr. and Mis. PAUL J. BRACKEN, '48, a daugh­ter, Laura Lee, July 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. BREEN, '33, a son, Michael Joseph, Aug. 15. 
Mr. and Mis. EDWARD J. BURKE, JR., '44, a daughter, Aug. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES M. BUTTERWORTH, ct-42, a daughter, Sept. 3. 
Dr. and Mrs. LOUIS J. CENNI, '40, a son, John Mark, Feb. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS C. COLLERAN, '47, a son, Louis Charles, Jr., Aug. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. NICHOLAS J. CONNOR, JR., ex­36, a son, Nicholas J., Ill, July 7. 
Mr. and Mis. THOMAS E. COUGHLAN, ex-35, a son, Teirence Michael, July 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK J. CULHANE, '48. a son, July 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. DALY, '41, a daugh­ter, Diane Eliiabeth, July 13. 
Mr. and Mis. J. ROBERT ECHENRODE, '48, a daughter, Ann Marie, June 4. 
Dr. and Mrs. KENNETH A. FORBES, '44, a son, Michael Robert, Aug. 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. GAFFNEY, '49, a son, John Dennis, June 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME D. GAINER, '43, a daughter, Mary Eliiabeth, July 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST J. GARGARO, '33, a son, James Richard, Aug. 19. 
Mr. and Mis. PETER GAYDOS, '46, a son, Sept. 8. 
Mr. and Mis. RAYMOND A. GEIGER, '32, a son, Eugene Gregory, Aug. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. GILROY, ex-43, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, Aug. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. GRAIF, '46, a son, James Mathew, July 15. 
Mr. and Mn. THOMAS E. HANLEY, III, '49, a son, Thomas Eugene, IV, Aug. 13. 
Mr. and Mis. LOUIS H. HANSMAN, '36, a daughter, Eleanor Louise, March 20. 
Mr. and Mn. EDWARD D. HENGEL, '41, a son, Edward D., Jr.,. Aug. 18. 
Mr. and Mis. LAWRENCE H. HENNESSEY, '27, a daughter, Mary Catherine, July 13, 
Mr. and Mrs. ADRIAN P. HICKEY, '48, a daughter, Aug. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. HORRIGAN, '48, a son, John Peter, July 24. 
Mr. and Mis. GEORGE C. HOWARD, JR., '38, a daughter, June 2. 
Mr. and Mis. THOMAS E. HOYER, '42, a son, Timothy, July 22. 
Dr. and Mis. ROBERT G. HUGHES, '45, a daughter, Maigaret Kathryn, July 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR J. HUMBY, '41, a daughter, Jeanne Kathleen, July 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. GERALD L. KERSCHEN, '48, a daughter, July 18. 
Mr. and MK. ANTHONY S. KUHARICH, '35, a son, Martin Anthony, March 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. E. BRUCE KUNKLE, '42, a daugh­ter, Mary Alice, July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. LANAHAN, ex-46. a sen, Michael Kevin, June 18. 
MISSION NEEDS MSSJIL 

Father John J. Heonesar, C.S.C. '02. a Teteran Holy Cross miwitm­or7. writes that his iBiMinn is Dacca, East Bengtd, Pakistan, is much in need oi a new noaem missal. 
"The old one." Father Hennessy writes, "is pretty well held togothar. but it's very old and hos too many pasted-in Masses." 

U any alumnus wishes to sand a missal to Father Hennessy. the Alumni Office will bis glad to dear details. Father Hennessy arrired ia Dacca on Washington's Birthday in 1907 and has been in the United States only twice since then, in 1925 and 1932. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK LEAHY, '31, a son, their sixth child, Aug. 31. 
Dr. and Mrs. RICHARD A. LEAHY, '41, a son, Patrick Sean, Aug. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN LUJACK, '48, a daughter, Mary Jane, July 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT H. LYONS, '48, a son, Robert Hugh, Jr., June 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. VERNON D. McARDLE, '47, a daughter, Aug. 10. 
Dr. and Mrs. GEORGE J. McDONNELL, '29, a daughter, Janene, June 19. 
Dr. and Mrs. THOMAS MANGAN, '43, a daugh­ter, Mary Ann, July 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. MIDDENDORF, '45, a son, Sept. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. MURPHY, '48, a son, Patrick Gerard, July 10. 
Mr. and Mis. PETER C. MURPHY, '49, a son, July 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL E. NEVILLE, '42, a son, Peter Edward, July 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. LEO A. POPKO, '50, a son, John Patrick, July 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS K. REIS, '41, a son, Thomas K., Jr., July 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK J .ROVAI,'47, a daughter, Susan Klarie, May 13. 
Mr. and Mis. WILLIAM W. RUNGE, '39, a son, Thomas Gordon, Aug. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL T. SALCIDO, '49, a son, Paul James, July 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. GERARD F. SARB, a son, July 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. SHIVELY, '31, a son, July 30. 
Mr. and Mis. WAYNE A. SHRIWISE, '43, a daughter, Susan Marie, Aug. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANKLIN H. STUART, H, '43, a son, Franklin H., HI, July 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD S. SULLIVAN, '24, a son, John Francis, Aug. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. DAVID A. WALSH, ex-45, a son, Kevin Declan, May 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE K. WARD, '40, a son, Nicholas Ernest, II, Aug. 15. 
DMMS 
REV. CASDfDt SZruCZKO. C.S.C.. 82 old, who (or X.yem «•• partor of Holf-TriiitT Cfanid ia Chicafo, tfied oa Aug. 12 ia rfcirun Boca ia Mmahw, Fobad, Father Saoako camt to the Umted States a> a bey, joiacd the riitiniiiiiii of Holy Cnm aad WM anUaed at Notre Ihmt ia 1891. Two yean after hit onfiaatioa he weat to Chicago ai pastor af Bbly TiiMty fnhk. Uader hit gnidaace a (bad u giade ichool. high xfaoal (taught br the Holy Cnm brathcn), rectory aad faculty house wen aH bailt. 
Father Sitiwilo wa* boried ia the rmiiiail j cemeteiir at Notre Dane oa Ang. 16, foOowiag the fnaeral Mas ia Chicago. Rev. Thoans A. Steiaer, CJ5.C., pcarincial, offieatrd at the graveside aeinoes. 
DANIEL A. YOUNGERMAN, Sooth Bad, a student at Notre Daav in 1889-90, died oo Jnly 18 alter aa iOaesi of six weds. His sorvinn indode his wife, a son, Daniel J., '35, aad a sister. 
DEZERA E. "ZEKE" CARTIER, '92, Ludingtoa, Midi., folliacfc oa eariy Notre Daaie football teai^ <£ed in Lodingtoa am Ang. 9 at the i«e of 79. His survivors iadnde five liaii^ten aad four sons, as wdl aa a hrodwr Charles E. Carder,' who is a mrmhrr of the Ahuani Assodatioa staff, and a sister, Mn. W. S. Taylor, Seattle, Wash. Two of the sons, George E. '23, aad Alfred £., '27, are ahuaai. 
Himsdf one of eight diildreii, lib. Caitier was ooe of knr faroAeis to be Notre Dame stadeats. The otheis, all aow deceased, wese Wanea A., '87. for whom Gartier Fidd is named, William E., "89, aad Geotge R., '90. 
Mr. Cartier fint played lullack on the team of 1889 and was a star ia the first Northwcsteta-Notre Dune game of that year, whea Notre Dame woa, 9-0. His diopkick from 35 yards out gave the Irish a 5-0 lead. A hicr toodMlown, soaed fay Ed Coady, eveatnaUy Mr. Cirtier's brather-ia-Iaw, boosted the lead to 9-0. 
Mr. Cattier pfatjed alio oa the teams of 1890 aad 1891 before receiving his B.S. degree in 1892. 
RUSSELL J. BURNS, ea-17, Chicago, tficd oa June 26. His only inuaetfiate sorviniig idativc ii a sister, Mn. John Garvey. 
The July-Angast ALOMHVS earned brief word of the death of Harold R. Ddaaey.. '18. Dallas, Texas. Later infonaatiaa recdved ia the Ahtaiiii OlEca telb that Mr. Ddaaey died ia his sleep oa Jidy 1. He had earlier experieooed sooe heart traoble, bat was apparently ia good health just prior to his death. He u survived by his wife. 
HENRY W. FRnZ, '21, St. FUeisburg, Fla., ified oo July 12, accnrfng to brid word recdved in die Alumni Office. 
DR. STANLEY W. INSLEV, '21. Detnrit, one of the country's leading alleigy specialists, died oa Aug. 9 from cancer of the pancreas. He is sur­vived by his wife aad two som, Stanley J. aad David, both Notre Dame students, and two dan^i­ters, Bfrs. Robert J. Hammd and Barbara. 
A. medical graduate of Wayne Univessity, Dr. Inslcy was secretary of the Wayne County Mrdifal Society in 1929 and its president in 1945. He was editor of the "Detroit Ifedical News" in 1943 aad a cfirector of the MiHiigaa Meificd Service. 
Dr. Insley was also a past peendent of the B£du­gan ADeigy Society and setred as a psufejos of clinical aietfidne at Wayne University. 
Knotring his fate following an operatioa four '•i'*^"*'** before bis death. Dr. Insley calmly aad cheerfully accepted God's wiD. He sold bis bene, aiTaaged hb professional aad business affairs and, bdoie he entered ftovidenoe Hosintal on June 18, spent most of his time with his wife aad chilihen. His Efe aad bis death' became an iaspiratioa to those near him. 
JOHN EDWARD MAHONEY. '22. Enid, OUa., <fied oa Jaw 23 in Mercy Heqital, OUahoeaa Gty. «Aere for several moaths he had beea icceiv­iag tieatncBt fta a heart toadiliua. Surviviag him are a bratha aad two tistcn. all of Eaid. 
AIoi« sria his brolhess, Ifr. Ifahoaey was ia tike saad aad gn*d busiaea aad ia the real estate aad 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
investment business in Enid. He was a past prcsi> dent of the local Rotary Club and a fourth degree Knight of Columbus. 
THOMAS J. BLACKWELL, JR., '33, Indianap­
olis attorney, died on Aug. 22 follou-ing an illness 
of 12 weeks. He is survived by wiic, two sons 
and two daughters and by his father, his brother, 
John, '31, and two sisters. 
A graduate of Indiana Law School, Mr. Blackwell 
was auorney for the town of Speedway from 1939 
on and was personal attorney for Al Fceney, '13, 
now mayor of Indianapolis, when the latter u-as 
sheriff of Marion Count>- for two terms. An officer 
in the "Saxy for two years in \Vorld ^Va^ II, Mr, 
Blackwell had since been a member of the law finn 
of Gardner and Blacku-ell. 
FRANCIS E. BUCKLEY, ex-42, >%^« killed in an 
accident in Midland, Texas, on May II. He is 
survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter, and 
by his mother, two brothers and a sister. 
Employed as personnel director for the Jones and Laughlin Supply Co., Eunice, N. Mcx., Mr. Buckley was \'isiting wiih a friend in Midland, Texas, at the time of the accident which caused his death. Long a resident of Saranac I^e, N. Y., he was a member of the freshman football squad at Notre Dame and was known to many on the campus as the "barefoot runner." He served with the Seabees in World 
War II. 
FRANK E. DUGAN, JR., '-H, of Kansas City, and his x^-ife, Elizabeth Cole Dugan, sister of ^Vil­liam N. Cole, '35, were both killed on July 2 in an automobile crash near Lamoille, lU. They are survived by two young daughters. Mr. Dugan is also sur\-ived by his parents, four sisters and a brother and &Irs. Dugan by her mother and her brother. 
Following service in World War II, Mr. Dugan became owner of the Westport Glass and Paint Co., in Kansas City. He and his wiic were on a \'aca­tion trip when the fatal accident occurred. 
The Alumni Office has only recently learned that JOHN J. NOWAK, JR., '45, Chicago, died on July 31, 1945, fi\'e weeks after his graduation from Notre Dame. 
ENSIGN VINCENT A. DOLAN, B.N.S. '46, died on July 26 in the Na\-al Hospital, St. Albans, L. I., N, Y., follomng an operation for a brain tumor. He had been ill for five and a half months. 
After receiving his degree from Notre Dame in 1946, Ensign Dolan spent tu-o years at Massachu­setts Institute of Technology under the Na\'y and \%-as au*arded there his bachelor of sdence in elec­trical engineering in February, 1948. He was then assigned to the U.S.S, Fresno as electronics officer and was aboard this ship when he was taken ill on Feb. 10, 1949. 
Ensign Dolan is survived by his wife, his parents and his sister. 
Two Laetare medalists died in August. ^VILLIAM 
G. BRUCE, 93, nationally known head of the Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee, died on Aug. 13, and DR. IRVIN ABELL, 72, noted Louisxillc surgeon and former president of the American Medical As­sociation, died on Aug. 28. Mr. Bruce received the I^etare Medal in 1947 and Dr. Abell in 1938. 
JOHN L. O'BRIEN, '49, of Chicago, \%ndely known on the campus during his student da>'s as a projectionist and film man for the Athletic Depart­ment, died in Chicago on Aug. 23, less than three months after his graduation. He had undergone an operation for a kidney infection and ^\-as apparently recovering from that when, a short time later, he died suddenly from a cerebral hemorrhage. 
John is sur^aved by his father and by his uncle and aunt, Mr. and JMrs. Frank Cummins, 1717 Ca­talpa St., Chicago, with whom he made his home. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to WIL­LIAM R. BELL, '25, on the death of his mother; to JAMES A. CARRICO, '32, on the death of his father; to JEROME J. CROWLEY, ex-01, on the death of his wfe and JEROME J. CROWLEY, JR., '31. and PATRICK F. CROWLEY, '33, on the A. GOTTSACKER, '39, on the death of his wife; to JOSEPH E. HANRATTY, '34, on the death of his father; to LOUIS H. HANSMAN, '36, on the death of his father; to REV. CORNELIUS J. LASKOWSKI, C.S.C., '33 on the death of his mother; to THOMAS J. LIEB, '23, on the death ol his mother; to BERT L. METZGER, '31, and WALTER J. METZGER, '25, on the death of their father; to REV. REGIS O'NEIL, C.S.C., '31. on the death of his mother; to FRANK J. PENDER­GAST, '27, JOHN F., JR., '35, and THOM.AS M., '37, on the death of their father. 
Personals 
Before 1900 
HENRY KICK, postmaster of East Portal, Colo., on July 13 made his fint visit to the campus since 1891. He u-as a Notre Dame student in 1890-91. 
1900 — 1904 
BOB PROCTOR, '04, reports that his nephew, Jerry Smith, from Huntington, Ind., is entering Xotre Dame to study law. He plans on joining Bob's law firm after completing his training. 
1905 — 1909 
ERNEST M. MORRIS, '06, South Bend, was ap­pointed chairman of the big firms division for the 1949 Community Chest campaign. 
REV. WENDELL P. CORCORAN, C.S.C, '07, former pastor of St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, was honored at a reception on .Aug. 7 at the Bronze-wood room of the Hotel LaSalle. Father Corcoran is the new pro\'incial procurator at Notre Dame. 
1910 
Rev. Michael L. Moriorty, S t Catherine's 
Church, 3443 E. 93rd SL, Cleveland, 4, O. 
From FATHER MIKE MORIARTY: 
CLAUDE SORG and I represented the I9I0-ers at the reunion. The new departure in separating the Alumni Reunion from the Commencement exercdses so favorably impressed me that I sent out the June program to many of the members of the class. 
Obviously the time is shortening and next June 
%riU soon be with us or without us. We are hope­
ful for a full count when the notable "Fortieth" 
is posted. 
STEVE KERR remembered us with a card from 
Yellowstone Park and BILL SCHMITT forwarded a 
%ve]oome postal souvenir on the occasion of a Cali­
fornia trip. 
Father ED MISCH has spent a couple of months 
in Cleveland serring as chaplain at the renowned 
Gilmour Academy. 
Announcement that the Holy Cross Brothers are staffing a new high school faculty in Cleveland sug­gests the possibility of some other Noire Dame priest coming on as chaplain. 
Spending a few da>-s on the campus during the summer sdiool gave me an opportunity to enjoy a visit with Father MIKE MATHIS who has become a great leader in the church liturgy program. His course this summer was well received and well attended. 
Some several weeks ago MARTIN "RED" MIL­LER of du Pont counsel and Airs. Miller attended Sunday Mass at St. Catherine's. Red, a long-time Cle\-elander, still looks good in Cle\-eland. 
We have some "movies" of Father Misch golfing in the Cleveland Notre Dame Club tournament. Occasionally Sam Snead misses 'em too. 
We shall contiue to talk about the coming reunion and in the event I can nurse along my arches and arteries I shall hope to \*isit the campus a few times —let's say in the capadty of a committee on ar­rangements. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSalle St Qixcago, 3, HI. 
From FRED STEERS: WILLIAM R. (BILLY) RYAN, has removed him­self from the environs of Cle\'eland and now holds forth at 2039 Midvale A\-enue, Los Angeles, Calif. CLEMENS L. ULATOWSKI, Clemens "Uli", the noisy catcher circa 1908 to 1911, is now a gentleman farmer somewhere in Michigan. 

ALBERT M. "RED" KELLY has retired from the International Harvester Co. and is now taking it easy at Zephyr Hills, Fla., where he may be found just sitting on the porch. 
EUGENE "GENE" CONNELLY has reUred from the Illinois Bell Telephone Co. and is traveling about looking for an appropriate place to take it eas>'. 

Just received a reminder from the Alumni Office that 1911 has not been using its quota of printer's ink. You can help by reporting on yourself and other members of our class )*ou have contacted lately. Any information will be interesting. It has been a long time since graduation and all of us would like to know what the other fellows are doing 
death of their mother; to FRANK X. FALLON, 

JR., '33, WILLIAM H.. '37 and JOHN J., '48, on This group at the Alumni Banquet on lune 11, spons the years (desfnte the sign) bom the death of their mother; to REV. LEO F. FLOOD, 1900 to 1910. From the left: Father M. L. Btforiartr. '10, INIUiam G. FersteL '00, Daniel J. C.S.C.» '24, on the death of his father; to HAROLD O'Connor, '05, l/t^lliam D. Jamieson* '05, and Qoude A. Sorg. '10. 
and where they are located. Most anything is news to those who have not heard of you for a long time. Just drop your class secretary a line! Come 1951 we'll be celebrating the 40th anniversary of our graduation. FATHER MIKE MORIARTY and the ancients of 1910 have that spot next June. 
1914 
b a W. Huxley 231 S. taSalle St., Chicago, 111. 

The Chicago Hornets of the AU-Amcrica Football Conference have signed GUS DORAIS, Wabash, Ind., as head scout and talent scout. 
From IRA HURLEY: Mrs. Hurley and I were at Notre Dame on Aug. 12 at which time our son, ROBERT received his 
A.B. degree. I talked with Mrs. WALTER CLEM­ENTS on the telephone to check up on Walter's illness. He was then still in Mt. Carmcl Hospital, Columbus, O., following an operation but is now at home at 623 Park Ave., South Bend. He would, of course, appreciate hearing from any members of the class who may find time to drop him a line. 
I had a postcard shortly after the Alumni Re­union from SIM FLANAGAN telling me of Walter's illness. 
On July 26, at about 11:30 forenoon, upon re­turning to my ofHce, I found a telephone message to call Colonel Hoynes at the LaSalle Hotel. Upon calling the Colonel, I found that it was none other than RONALD O'NEILL. Ronald was in Chicago to address some meeting of advertising executives and, after he had performed this distressing chore, we met informally in his room at the LaSalle for a couple of hours before his train left for Detroit. 
While in South Bend last weekend, I had the pleasure of visiting with TOM CURRY'S son, Tom. 
I would appreciate it ver>' much if those members of the class who have arranged to attend football games this fall would drop me a postcard and let mc know what games they are going to attend. 
1918 
John A. Lemmer, 901 take Shore Dr., Escanoba, Mich. 

JOE CRAVEN, Denver, recendy received the papal honor of the Knighthood of St. Gregory the Great. Joe has been very active in the Knights of Columbus and was grand knight of the Denver council in 1931-32. He has also ser\'cd as attorney for the archdiocese of Denver since I93I and is Denver chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
1919 
Clarence W. Bader. 921 Broadway, Gary, Ind. 

PETE BECZKIEWICZ, formerly of Indianapolis, is back in South Bend and has opened the Avenue Gift shop at 1501 Western Ave. 
1921 

CHET GRANT, who knows Notre Dame football and is almost a daily visitor at football practice, is for the season passing out local football dope in the form of a weekly letter tided "Under the Hat with Chei Grant." You can reach Chet at 221 Tonti .Ave., South Bend. 
The daughter of NORMAN BARRY will make her bow at the Debutante Cotillion in Chicago. A beautiful large picture of her appeared in the "Chi­cago Tribune" on Aug, 7. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7. N. Y. 

From KID ASHE: Elsewhere in this issue is formal announcement of the wedding of Miss Mary Frances Reed to our own FRANKIE BLASIUS in Dayton on July 23. We do bestow our hearty congratulations and best wishes upon the newlyweds. Franlue's last address in 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Dr. John F. Delph 

DR. JOHN F. DELPH, '16, on June 16 be­came president of the medical staff of Passa­vant Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He is head of the hospital's department of otolar>'ngology. 
The new chief of staff is an associate pro­fessor of otolaryngology at Northwestern University Medical School, where he has been a member of the faculty since 1924. He became a member of Passavant's attend­ing staff in 1929. 
Dr. Delph was a student of the inter­nationally famous laryngologist. Dr. Cheve­lier Jackson of the University of Pennsyl­vania, and is a member of the editor board of Surgery, Gynecology, and Obstetrics and is a past president of the Chicago Laryn­gological Society. 
He is a diplomate of the American Board of Otolaryngology, a Fellow of the Ameri­can Medical Association, and is a member of the .American Bronchoscopic Society, the Chicago Medical Society, the Institute of Medicine of Chicago, the American Acad­emy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology, the Society of Medical History of Chicago, the -American Laryngology, Rhinology and Otolar>-ngolog>' Society, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
our file is 44 Central Ave., Dayton 6, O. 
Our friend, STEVE CARMODY, of Carlinville, III., was incapacitated for some time last spring due to illness. We are happy to say that Steve is now improving, but still has to talce things a bit easy. 
The Doctor DAN SEXTONS of St. Louis and Clayton, Mo., spent some time in the East during July, Doctor Dan attending the American Medical Association meetings in Atlantic City, and the bal­ance of the family visiting relatives on the Hudson. The Sextons spent August at Macatawa near Hol­land, Alich. 
This is the season of the year when we look to the men of '22 who are getting football teams in shape for the coming season. Mar good fortune at­tend the hard bbors of Dr. EDDIE ANDERSON at Iowa University; HUNK ANDERSON'S Chicago Bear's; BUCK SHAW'S «'cn of Sn Fnaaco; aad EARL WALSH'S St. Aalxn e Academr, IMbaqoe, Iowa. 
Dr. HENRY ATKINSON el Gm n B*r, Wis., too, is getting Us Green Bay Pacbn in ^p e lor the season, but the good doctor is nsnff bandaffes and linaments to do it. Of coarse. Doc Atkiana knows a thing or two about footlnll having sera service on Father PAT HAGGERTY'S, Cocbr HaD Red Raideis of WorM War I. The Doc acaanpaaiei The Green Bay Rickets team on all of that load trips. Doc and Mis. Atkinson, who aie keenly i>­terested in all branches of sports, iccently went oat sailing on Green Bay. It is repotted the wind snub­bed them, and the AtUnsons and party had to httdi­hike back :o shore. 
We earnestly solicit news of all 1922 men. Jnst a few words on a post card win give modi |4.»*"^* to your fellow classmates. 
JIM FOREN announces the opening of his new ofSce at <0I Penobscot BIdg., Detroit. Jim is in the real estate business speoalizii^ in cocmnerdal and industrial properties. 
Dean PAT MANION was the hucheon speaker at the state convention of the Indiana IVobation Association on Aug. 15 in the Oliver hotel. South Bend. During the meeting, PROF. HUGH O'BRIEN, '33, spoke on "Probation and Parole, Can it Be Successful?" 
1923 

Paul H. Costlier, 1305 W. JhrHngton AT*« St. Pcntt Iffiaa. 
LOU MOORE of the Geneva Steel Co., Geneva, Utah, reports last winter to be the wont unoe he arrived in Utah. Two o£ the three BIbore chi^i­ters. Curly and Kathy, are now married. Bobbr >> still at home advising Dad that he ought to reduce. Lou and wife Kay expect to see the Southern Meth­odist game in Ihdlas this fall. The Moores reside in Provo, Utah. 
FATHER JOE McALLISTER, C.S.C., who suc­ceeded Father Wendd! Corcoran, C.S.C., as fnstor of St, Patrick's Church in South Bend, assumed hb new duties on September 1. 
ARCH WARD was elected first president of the Chicago Pnss club, a new organization with head­quarters in the Sheraton hotel in Chicago. 
1924 

Ber. Thomoa A. KeUr. CS. C CoTcraangh HalL Noir* Dam*, hd . 
From FATHER KELLY: After the exciting and pleasant days of our Silver Jubilee, the Class of '24 has been quiescent, as has been your class secretary. Besides, we took up enough space in the last ALUMNUS to give the most lasticfioas reader enough information to hold lum awfaHe. However, some letters have come in, in praise of the idea of detaching the Reimions ^ m CommeDce­ment, the complete dedication of the facilities of the University to the alumni, and the joy of the re­unions themsel\-es. 
JERRY FOX, the mayor of Chilton, Wis., wants us to get together annually. FRED MANCUSO of Kansas City, Mo. wants more frequent reunions. HUGH BLUNT of Brockton, Mass. wants to make the 30th an even greater reunion than the 25th. TOM HODGSON of Minneapolis, over whom the 25 years have passed most Ughtly, DON SinXIVAN of Indianapolis and CONROY SCOGGINS of Hous­ton, Texas, have also written in, expressing their delight with the reunion. 
None of the men of '24 now stationed at Notre Dame have been changed: FATHER BOLGER is still head of the Department of Physics and pre­fecting in Farley, FATHER MOORE is,still dean of the Graduate School, thoogfa he gave up the headship of the Department of FhilasaphT, FATHER BALDWIN is still teaching Fhyscs and Eving in Ccarby, your sectetary is still head of the Depart­ment of Classics and pcefecting in Cnraaau^ HalL 
But, to keep the '24 cohmm going, yoor leuttary mmt have pertinent news of our dassmates, so here's the first appeaL How aboot stopping in to 
The Notre D<jiiie Alumnus 
see me when you're here for a game(s) this fall? Another, more detailed appeal wU reach you later in the fall. We are alv*-ays glad to get information of and from any of our classmates so please tdl us all about it. Keep '24 in the ALUMNUS/ 
RAY KOHIN , his wife and son, Roger, \Tsited the campus on Aug. 30 on their way to LaSalle, 111., for a \acation. Roger is entering Notre Dame this fall as a freshman. Ray and his wife live in Bethesda, Md., while Ray works for the government in Wash­ington, D. C. 
ED MILLER is back in the states again with a civilian status. He is connected with the G. I. Sel­lers and Sons Company in Elwood, Ind. 
BILL SHEEHAN, president of the Sbeehan Tire Service, Inc,, has purchased the Forstcr residence property- at 215 N. Lafaj-ette Blvd. in South Bend. The future use of the property has not been deter­mined. 
AL CASTELLINI, Cindnnati, has been made a Che\-alicr de I'Ordrc de la Couronne by His Ro>-3l Highness the Prince Regent of Belgium, in recogni­tion of ser^ce rendered to Belgium in his capadty as honorary consul in Cindnnati. Al has been hon­orary Bdgium consul in Cincinnati since May 15, 1935. 
1925 
John P. Hurley. The Toledo Parlor Furniture Co., Toledo, O. 

From JOHN HURLEY: Next June 9, 10 and 11, are the big dates for our 25th Reunion, and things arc beginning to shape up with ten (10) months to go. 
After a visit and some correspondence with JIM ARMSTRONG and others, we thought it best to have a strong South Bend group. We are fortunate in ha\ing, not only a big group, but a fine one from the standpoint of ability and representation. This should givx us a bang-up local operation. 
Here's the line-up! BILL CERNEY will be chainnan of an Executive Committee. Bill will be assisted by GEORGE DRISCOLL, CLARENCE HARDING. GEORGE KOCH, ALBERT McGANN, CLIFFORD POTTS and WILLIAM VOOR, plus a few others Cemey may need. The entire group of thirty (30) *25-ers living in South Bend and Mishaw^ca will be designated as the Reunion Com­mittee. 
Outside contacts will be made by AD.AM WALSH, who wll write the monogram men, and there \%ill be single chairmen in New York, JOHN B.ARTLEY; Chicago, LEO POWERS; Cleveland, DON MIL­LER; DetrtJit, ED POLHAUS; Connecticut, BILL SCHOMBERG; Fort Wa>-nc, HERMAN CENT­LIVRE; and the West Coast will be taken care of by EUSTACE CULLINAN. As mentioned before, GEORGE BISCHOFF will contaa the '25-ers in Indianapolis and HENRY WURZER the fellows in the tall-corn state of Iowa. 
Jim Armstrong will act in an cx-ofHdo capadty­and Bill Cemey will get plenty of help and advice from \*eteran Jim, who has had his "finger" in exactly 25 of these 25-year reunions. 
Jim will prepare, ver>' soon, a list of the deceased members of the class who can't come back, to be circulated for pra>'ers and Afasses during the ENTIRE Reunion year. Start now and say a few Hail Marys for those fellows who can't do an>-thing about reaching that 75 percent quota next June. 
The July-August ALUUNUS has, as this is written, been in the hands of the class a short time and we have heard from a few of the bo>'s we haven't heard from in a quarter of a centurj-'—^it isn't too early to make your reservation because, if we say YOU will be there, a few more of your pals will be on deck. Let's ha\-e some neu-s. 
BILL SCHOMBERG, who is an architect in Westport, Conn., writes: "1925 Alumni Reunion! Vou asked for volunteers—^how about my neck of the woods—Southern Connecticut? Glad to do my bit! While you're about it—make my reservation for June and let me hear from you." 
Thanks, Bill. You v«ill be hearing from us and you have the honor of making the first reservation. 
R. Conroy Scoggins 

R. CoNRov SCOGGINS, '24, Houston, who for three years was state deputy of the Knights of Columbus in Texas, was elected a member of the Supreme Board of the K. of 
G. at the supreme convention in Portland, Ore., in August. Mr. Scoggins is also a member of the Board of Duectors of the Alumni Association. 
You fellows in that area let BarUey and Schomberg know and tell us a little about yourselves. 
This from ADAM W.ALSH! "Dear Strongheart Hurley: You are addressed in the abo\-e manner simply because you will have to ha\-e a strong heart to withstand the shock of hearing from me after all these many ^-ears. 
"This being our year of the 25th reunion prompt­ed me to write to our alu-ays genial and now efh­dent secretary-. It seems to me that if each of us will pitch in and help a litde you will not be burdened with all the work. With this thought in mind, I have ^%Titten to Jim Armstrong for a list of names and addresses of the remaining monogram football men of our class. If I will not be out of crder, I will start the campaign of bombarding them with letters now urging their presence next June. You know as well as I that one letter from you, or from Jim, \rill not do the trick. If enough of us, in our different little groups with which we were doscly associated when at Notre Dame, write a personal note of appeal, we may be able to break that attendance record. We can try, anyway, and they can never rule you out for trying. 
"We have two boys—Adam, Jr., almost 24, and a college graduate as well as married. Russell, 22^ , and now in college after a long stretch in the scr­x-ice. Both were in the service over three years. Then comes the ninth inning rally, or second wind, Stella Catherine, who will be three in September and is the boss of the ranch, make no mistake about that. All are well and pra>ing that the old man may once again have a better football team than the 'wolves.* 
"If I keep rambling, the shock I have given you may become stistained and I have enough red ink to remove from that ledger already, when my num* ber comes up on that 5nal board. 
**Do not hesitate to call upon me if I can assist in any way in the reunion preparations. Don't try to overload me now; I am getting old just like you. I will gladly help a bit if I can and you need me. 
"Good luck and best wishes to you and yours. Always. As ever, Adam Walsh, Coach of Football, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Alaine." 
Thanks a million, Adam—^your suggestion of each of us contacting our own group will assure a splendid attendance on those dates—^June 9, 10 and 11, 1950! 
1926 
John J. Ryon. 1415 W. Thome Ave., Chicago 26, m* 
From JOHN RYAN: 

After many years of faithful service as class secre­tary, VIC LE^f^f£R has aske.d to be relieved. Not beciuse the duties were too heax-y but because Vic felt that the class could be served better by someone nearer (geographically) to the campus. Hence, the new name at the top of this column as suggested by BILL DOOLEY. 
Thanks from all of us, Vic, for a job well done. Your successor will strive to do as well. 
But the jf>b as the class secretary docs depend on all of you. I will be your representative to the enters of the ALUUNUS. If enough of you send me enough material on yourselves and our classmates, you can make my job a tough one. Tough, because rU have to talk Bill Dooley into using all of it; and while Bill has a responsibility to all of the classes you all know that his heart is with *26. So that %von*t be too much to worry about. 
The worry will be to get the material in. The class roster vnll be a\-ailable to me before this issue reaches you and prior to each succeeding issue, 25 of you will receive a card from me. That means you're elected to let the rest of us know what you have been doing since June, 1926. You don't have to wait for the card! 
There are about 250 of us left and about 10 issues of the ALUMNUS to come out before June, 1951, so we'll cover the class before that 25th Reunion. Say a prayer for those who have gone to the Final Re­union. 
Get the material to me so I can send it on to Bill Dooley. Remember the theme of the '26 class notes will be *'100 percent reunion in *51." 
EDDIE DUGGAN , who, incidentally, has a son as a freshman at Notre Dame this year, is general chairman of five committees of l-)0 members who are undertaking a wide program for expansion of dub activities in the Newark Athletic Club in New Jersey. The camp^gn is neither membership nor financial in nature—the club has 1,200 members ana a substantial bank balance—but simply an effort to recreate the interest and acti\ity of an earlier day in the club. As part of the new plan, various alum­ni groups will be offered facilities and secretarial and mailing senice in the club building. 
Other '26 men had sons entering this year. In this group are BERT DUNNE, San Mateo, Calif.; ROME FELDPAUSCH, Hastings, Mich, (an older son is also at Notre Dame); DOC GELSON, Sum­mit, N. J.; PAUL HARRINGTON, Mountainside, 
N. J.; CHARLIE MASON, Indianapolis; tfie late MAURICE McNULTY, Indianapolis; JIM RONAN, Chicago: DR. HAROLD CAREY, Lancaster, Wis.; FRED FERGUSON, Lorain, O.; and TOM FITZ­GERALD, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
NORB ENGELS, professor of English at Notre Dame, is a hundred dollars wealthier as the result of writing a humorous poem about a house-painting bee. The poem will appear in "Popular Home," a domestic magazine. 
Quoth the proCessor, long a contributor of essa>-s and poems to magazines, "The usual payment for poetry is purely spiritual. Howe\*er, I ha\Te no ob­jection what5oe\'er to the present arrangement." 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland. Badio Station WSBT. South Bend, Ind. 
HERB JONES was appointed an associate by the Thomas E. McCarthy Insurance Agency in South Bend. Herb will be associated with the McCarthy ^ency on a part-time basis. 
SISTER M. AGNES .ALMA, O.P.. Mt. St. Mary's, Hastings-on-the-Hud$on. N. Y., M.A. '27, was a visitor at the Vocational Conference on the campus thb simmier, her first visit in more than 20 years. Sister Agnes Alma was one of the pioneers in the actiii'e Alumnae Club of simuner school grad­uates. 

1928 
Louis F. Buckley, 4700 W. Adams SU Chicago 44, HI. 

From LOU BUCKLEY: BILL CRONIN, writing from 1600 Broadway, INew York 19, gives us this fine report on the New York gang: 
''I have been in touch with many oE the members •of our class here in New York. I had lunch with ADRIAN LOPEZ recently. He has a successful pub-Jishing business here, looks fit enough to make the 
team, and has the same spirit and affection for 
Notre Dame we used to see on the campus, despite 
the fact he hasn't been there since graduation. In­
cidentally, I understand he is doing some fine work -for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
''During the last six months I have seen or talked to JOHN ANTUS and AL TAYLOR, both of the Department of Justice; BERNIE GARBER and 5TEVE SHERRY, money-raisers; BILL (TURK) KELLY, Board of Ed High School professor; ED­WIN F. BRENNAN, HOWARD OCHS and JOE KISSLING. Whenever I feel moody I call JACK LAVELLE for the latest Broadu-ay gag. I haven't seen JIM CONNIEY for about a year, nor JACK MULLEN since last Febru3r>-, but I know they are both around town complaining about taxes, which is the current test of affluence. I had occasion to talk to three of our class engineers about an important matter recently, JOE REPETTI, FRANK DU­QUETTE and FRANK KANE. I don't know whether it's the lift which the North Carolina game lias given the New Yprk alumni, but they all sound like a crowd of enthusiastic freshmen with memories. 
"BUD CALLAGY is busy arranging for the Nov. II entertainment of the visiting V.I.P. (Incidentally, A-ou might remind any members of the class planning to come to the North Carolina game and who want to attend the N. Y. Club Rally at the Hotel Bilt­more the night before to send in their reservations immediately. Write: JOHN A. HOYT, Room 620, 342 Madison Ave.» New York 17, N. Y., for resen,-a­tlons. Price, $6.00 per person. This is not a plug. It is a small room and the Rally will quickly sell out. 
"I see and talk to GEORGE CRONGEYER often. He is one of the most capable and successful in­surance men in Metropolitan Life, and I suggest he is just as thorough as ever. As of this date he has seen South Pacific three times. BOB HAMILTON just bought a beautiful new home at Manhasset, 
L. I. He and I get together occasionally between his trips to Florida for Pan American. I am alwaj's after him to bring back GEORGE COURY. I need (he gin rummy money, but Hamilton keeps Coury in Florida all for himself. 
"I saw JACK WINGERTER'S handsome counte­nance in the *N. Y. Herald Tribune' yesterday, stating that he has received another promotion to 
V.P. of his company, Transfilm. Send congratula­tions to Jack for the class and tell him to lay off that 'Wall Street Journal.* Hamilton and Conmey and yours truly went broke reading that sheet 20 years ago. 
"I see DR. JOHN E. FRANKLIN very often. John is a successful New York City pediatrician and the best. He has three grand bo>'s at St. Ignatius Loyola, all heading for Notre Dame. 
"My son, Vaughn, finished lona Prep last June and he is accepted and registered in engineering at Notre Dame for next month. We now have one other hoy and three girls. 
"In every issue of your column, Lou, I hope you will remind the Class to support the drive for the New Science Building. My son's counting on using that building!" 
Bill tells me I am living in his old neighborhood on fhe west side in Chicago and that I will find his initials carved on every newsstand between St. Mel's and Resurrection. 
I am glad to add BILL CRONIN'S name to that of the late FRANK O'TOOLE and FRANK DONfV VAN who have sons at Notre Dame. How abouC a note from other *28 men with sons at Notre Dame? I would also like a report on daughters in college. My daughter, P&ula, is a freshman at Loyola University here in Chicago this year. 
It was great to have a note from my old next door neighbor in old Freshman Hall 25 years ago, MIKE HOGAN. Mike, who is with the Medical 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Bernard I. Bird 

BERNARD J. BIRD, '28, was on July 5 ap­
pointed city treasurer of Buffalo, N. Y., after serving since Jan. 1, 1946, as deputy treas­urer. 
Upon his graduation from Notre Dame in 1928, Mr. Bird became a member of the teaching staff of St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute, Buffalo's Christian Brothers' high school. After several years of teaching he was appointed an Erie County probation officer and subsequently took graduate courses in education and social work. H e served successfully in the Probation Depart­ment for 13 years, until he was named deputy city treasurer by Mayor Bernard J. Dowd. 
Giving generously of his time to youth, Mr. Bird has also been particiJarly active as a speaker for both the Catholic Charities and the Holy Name Society in the diocese of Buffalo, of which Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., former president of Notre Dame, is bishop. And for the past eight years he has taught courses in criminology, general sociology, juvenile delinquency, crime prevention and child welfare in the evening college of Canisius College, Buffalo. 
Mr. Bird is Buffalo city chairman for the Notre Dame Foundation and an active mem­ber of the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo. 
Arts Supply Corporation, 220 West Berry Street, Fort Wayne 2, writes as follows: 
"We have any number of alumni dropping in here as we happf;n to be next door to the EUcs. FRANK McOARnrV, formcrh/ n! Tudl^aiapolis who moved here some liae back, ^:.:pi ^n Irequantly. ART MILLER. '28, has his ofiicc down the sucet. IHIX PLUGHELL, i.i old ulmi-macf student now with T.W.A., drcp! in at rtgular inten'als. CH.AJU.IE (PINKY) MULLANKY called ms wLjn he i-a-- in town. Re is with Walcreen's as merr^handisc iriz^t^­ger with offices in Chicago. I uitd to s«: WIL'^ARD WAGNER very often during ther war and just after­wards, but have not seen him for quite some time. Ft. Wayne has a very good and also most active club. Do you ever hear anything from PAUL FRY of Dixon, m." 
Mike has six children, two girls and four boys. He lost a litde girl in March. 
GEORGE KELLEY wiott ban Yoai«dDWB, OUo whcie he is -asmtant m»i»gi«g t£UK ol 'The Yaaogstown Vindicatar." Tht onlr other '28-cn from Youngstovni wai CHET RICE who ii mm ia Clevdand. Geotge mfnrioiirrf tint hn osROVoad-. ence with '28 men is xant—even JOHN RICKOKD, his roommate, charges that Gcoige owes hi a at least two letters. John is in Chicago with Aimoor's. George, unfortunately, lost his only child ten years ago. 
I had a letter fram MK E SICKS, «d>o is with the firm of Stuart, Deval, Bianigin, Ball ft Kicfa, SOI Lafayette life Bnildins, Lafayette. lad. Wkm said he stiU has fond memories of oar 20-year, da a reimion and is lotting forward to one ia 1953> BCA MOHLMAN and Mike aie the only '2S awa ia Lafayette. Mike mentioned that ia taUng his twin boys to the Notie Dame Boys Camp ia Mirhigaa thU summer, be visited the Campos and had a mce visit with FATHER CONDON, who is now 81. Mike, by the way, has four boys and a giiL 
JOHN BUSCHEMEYER wrote from Louisville. Ky., where he is administrator at the LomsviDe General Hospital. I was glad to hear that John has completely recovered from baisitis which kept him from attending our reunion last year. John fcports that he visited TOM TRAUGHBER reeendy ia Clarksville where Tom is practidag law. Tom hat one son and John has two gids and a boy. 'Tom and John expect to get back for several ot the games this year. 
My card to LARRY CULLINEY requesting news reached him on vacation with his- wife, son and daughter.. Larry is with the Fedeial Deposit la­surance Corporation in Rutland, Vt. Larry mentioned that he insited JOHN MITIGUY ia Burlington, Vt., where he met ART MmCU Y and his wife and daughter. Usually, while enroute to or from Long Island. Larry detours through ^t . Kisco, N. Y. lo visit with the uumetous GARBER clan. He reports that Bcinie has.enough boys to keep the name Garber on the Notre Dame roster for many yean, that is, some yean hence. Lairy plans to attend the N.D.-North Carolina game and loob forward to greeting in adi£lion to GARBER, BILL CRONIN, BOB HAMILTON, JOHN McMAHON. JIM CONMEY, JACK LAVELLE and OLLIE SCHELL, an old membeis of the "Le^on," '28 and '29 vintage, and a host of old friends of the 
N. Y. Club. Larry footnotes the term "Legion" as a "cryptic Hc&bhon term." 
JOHN (DOC) FORGE, who went to work with me in 192S for Gooiiyear Tire & Rubber Co., is still with them in Des Moines, la. He coveis soutbera Miimesota, one coimty in Wisconsin and seven in niinob on truck tires for Goodyear. Doc has the distinction of being the first grandfather in the '28 class. Congratulations, Do c Let me know if there are any other '28 men who should be added to my one man list of distinguished grandfathers. Doc mentioned that he spent an evening recently at the home of CHARLES CASEY, '26, in Mason City where LARRY MASON, '29, joined them. Doc lost his wife in 1945 and he remarried in 1947. 
CHRISTIE FLANAGAN reports from Port Arthur, Texas, that PAT CANNY was in Texas recendy. Christie mentioned how much he enjoyed seeing the gang at the 20-year reunion and he praised JOE MORRISSEY*S pictures very highly. AcoonSng to the Christie Flanagan ft Co. letterhead, Christie keeps busy as a ship and forwarding agent and a custom house broker. 
CYP SPORL, insurance broker and average ad­juster, writes fnnn New Orleans, that the DE LA VERGNES, NOLTYS, BURKES end SPORL aB plan on attending the Tulane game. I hope,to see yoa, Cyp, at that game. 
J. HARVEY DALY was vacationing in Nova Scotia when my card reached him. Harvey is p ^ soimel and pabilr relations director with the C^rJ^t Food Department Stores in Washington, D. C. ' 'He .. «vas married on June 29, 1949, at Great Neck, Long Island, to Jcen Aiken K^teison. The best man was JAMES F. CURRY, '29, and one of the ushers was =r<other •29-er, THOMAS LANTRY. Harvey's home address is 7300 Forest Road. Kent ViUige, Hyattsville, Md. This is the first marriage I have had an opportunity to report in years. How about some of our bachdocs, such as MARTY RYAN and JOE KINNEARY. givii« me a diaiKe to report marriages more legulaily. Who are some o( the other badielocs in the ^ss ? 
I regiet to repoit that as of Ais writiis > • 
26 

Aug. 10, ED McKEOWN is still in bed as the result of bis automobile acddent of last November. He hopes to be up on crutches after Sept. 1. If you ha\'en't already done so, drop him a note at Dune Acres, Chesterton, Ind. 
My sincere thanks to BILL CRONIN, MIKE HOGAN, GEORGE KELLEY, MIKE RICKS, JOHN BUSCHEMEYER, LARRY CULLINEY, DOC FORGE, CHRISTIE FLANNAGAN, CYP SPORL and HARVEY DALEY for another news>­column. I would hax'e been in a bad spot this time if these fellou'S had not come through with ne\vs (after my prompting by a postcard reminder) as I just got out a letter to all class secretaries at the suggestion of the Alumni Board to encountge some news of cvcr>- class in each issue of the ALUMNUS. I appreciate the cooperation tiic '28 men have given me and hope none of you will fail to respond when I call upon you for news. ­
I hope to sec some of you during the year as I am to participate on a panel on health insurance before Te Deum groups in E\*ansville, Ind., Owens­boro and Lexington, Ky., Peoria and LaSalle, 111.^ and .Appleion, Wis. I am also teaching a graduate class at night at Loyola University. This week I am speaking before a Teachers Institute at Mundelein College and before a group of foreign students at Chicago University. I mention this to rcminif you that I donH have much spare time after my regular w*ork at the Federal Security Agenc>* regional office lo spend on news-gathering for this column. Why not surprise me by sending in some news without a reminder? Surely you will pick up some news item at the games this fall to pass along to me. 
f I had another letter from GEORGE KELLEY after completing the column. He said that JOHN IGOE stopped to see him on a business trip even though the "Youngstown Vindicator" doesn't buy steel. George reports that John looks very good and shows little or no trace of his ordeal which I reported in the last issue. John's newest daughter >*-as born early in July. CHET RICE and his wife were her Godparents. 
JOHN CULLINAN has been ele\-ated from com­mon pleas judge to superior court judge by Gover­nor Bowles of Connecticut. 
J.\CK MULLEN has joined the advertising firm of Sullix-an, Stauffer, Colwell and Bayles, Inc. with offices at 437 Fifth Ave., New York City, 16. The president of the firm, Ray SuUix-an, is FRANK LEL^HY'S brother-in-law. 
1929 
Don I. Pliinkett. Biology Department, Notre Dame, Ind. 
From DON PLUNKETT: A number of Ictlen, cards and u'ircs have arrived since the 20-v'ear reunion in Dillon Hall and here is a summar\* of the neu's items. 
From REV. ROBERT SWEENEY, C.S.C, who until .Aug. 1 v-as executive assistant to the president: "I wish to express my most sincere thanks for the generous benefaction of $140.44 which the class of *29 has just made to the University and assure you of the lasting appreciation of all the members of the Xotre Dame Foundation. 
"With such lo>-al alumni as >-ouisclf and the other members of your class staunchly supporting the Uni­versity ^ith moral and financial aid, the future of Notre Dame looms strong and secure in the eves of all of us who are so vitally interested. I am con­fident that you. too, share a feeling of gratification in the knowledge that you arc helping to train and educate the future leaders of our country. 
**I ask God to bless you and the class of '29 for your generous gift to the University and for the en­couragement that you haw given us in our endeavor to secure the necessary funds for the new Science Center. 
" I have told Father Ca\*anaugh about this act of genertJsity on the part of your class. Will you accept this as an expression of thanks from him as well as me?" 
From HUGH McMANIGAL: "On the way home frt)m the reunion I stopped in Cleveland and had dinner at CHUCK ROHR'S. Chuck was feeling good and looking about the same. Had dinner there 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
William E. Mahin 
WILLIAM E. MAHI.V, '28, chairman of metals research at Armour Research Foun­dation of Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, has been named director of re­search. Mr. Mahin heads a group of 411 scientists, engineers, and technicians who are at present working on 125 active research projects for industrial and govenmient spon­sors. It is the largest of the Foundation's three divisions. 
For ten years previous to his joining the Research Foundation in 1947 Mr. Mahin was in charge of metallurgical engineering for the Westinghouse Electric Corp., Pitts­burgh, Pa. Earlier he was in charge of metallurgical research for the Vanadium Corporation of -America. 
-•After receiving his B.S. degree in metal­lurg>- at Notre Dame in 1928, Mr. Mahin in 1933 received his M.S. in metallurgical engineering from Carnegie Institute of Tech­nolog)-, Pittsburgh. He holds patents in the use of silica flour and binder for porous molds, modification of furnace to provide bright-hardening of tool steel, and compo­sition of tool steel. He has written various papers on nitriding, classification of graphite in gray iron, and heat treatment of stainless steel and is a member of the -American Societ)- for Testing Materials, American So­ciety for Metals, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers, Insti­tute of Metals, British Iron and Steel Insti­tute, and American Foundrj-men's Society. 
Mr. Mahin lives in LaOrange, 111., with his wife, two sons and a daughter. He is the son of Dr. E. G. Mahin who recently retired as head of the Department of Metal­lurg}- at Notre Dame. 
with FR.\NK .ANDREWS, '27, and BILL BYRNE, '28. Bill was taking time out from his job of selling to be temporary foundry superintendent for Basic .-Muminum. 
"Later that evening we went out to Cathedral Latin High School and attended the 25-Year Class Reunion. Of course, I knew a lot of these fellows and 
The Notre Dcahe Alumnus 
was very glad to see them all again. Some of them you probably know. PIERCE O'CONNOR, '28, GEORGE SMYTHE, '28, GEORGE McMONA-GLE, '28, JOEY GAVIN'S brother. Dr. Jim, and a bunch of other bo)-s whose names escape me right now. 
"Earlier the same day I had spent considerable time with JIM DUBBS, '06, who was my boss and who is now vice-president and manager of the Cleve­land division of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. KARL MARTERSTECK, '29, sat in with us for a while. Karl is now division engineer at Cleveland for the same company. 
'*I spent several hours in Cincinnati with JOE DAUTREMONT, '29, and his wife, Judy, who came down to Cincinnati from Springfield for the occasion. Naturally, I told him of the gcKxl time that we had had and shou-ed him the pictures that were taken of the groups at the class smoker in the Oliver. I believe he had wired v'ou that he would be unable to make it. 
"From there an uneventful flight to Miami and the six da)*: I was gone were certainly packed full of good times and reminiscences." 
From G.\YLORD HASS: "JIM O'CONNOR, LARRY MOORE and m>^f left South Bend by air Monday afterntxin after the reunion. We arrived in Washington, D. C. without incident or 'flat tires.' 
"LARRY MOORE made the retreat of the N. D. Club of Washington held June 11-12 and arranged by F.ATHER BERNARD RANSING, '31. Larry's newest venture in film-making for the Navy sub­marinei? will take him to Navy Underwater Sound Laboratory at New London, Conn. 
"LIEUT. COL. JIM O'CONNOR of the Air Force at Boiling Field, D. C , states that BOB SCHULZE toured the eastern seaboard during the summer to recuperate from the 20->-ear class re­union. 

"JOE McNAMARA (Lieut. Col.) was in Wash­ington during July for training duty with the ordnance branch, of the Army in the Pentagon. I had lunch with him June 21. Business prevented Joe from attending reunion even though he had made all the plans. Joe is assistant general counsel for ^Bridgeport Brass Company in Bridgeport, Conn. Incidentally, I am signal oflicer of the Headquarters Military District of Washington of the Army, located in the Pentagon. 
'*Wc would be very happy to see you or any of the '29 fellows in Washington at any time." 
From MARK WONDERLIN: "The first week in .August the Wondcrlins are going to be at the Lake Shore Hotel at Clear Lake, la. LARRY MASON is bringing his wife over for an evening and, in Larry's words, 'we will impress upon the girls what a fine and upstanding place Dillon Hall was during the reum'on.' I saw JOE WH.ALEN recently and he was wearing that contagious reunion smile." 
_ From DR. GEORGE J. McDONNELL by wire: "One week after the reunion on June 19 my fifth daughter Janene was born. We are still waiting for a boy. Best regards to the '29 classmates." 
EXCERPTS FROM THE POST­REUNIO.V MAIL . . . JOHN DORGAN (attorney-at-Iaw. Chicago) "en­joyed the smoothly run reunion weekend so much." 
BILL DOOLEY (Alumni Ofiice, Notre Dame) "that march of the '29-ers into the Dining Hall Saturday night was top flight." 
NORB BERGHOFF (Way™ Eqmpment, Fort Wayne) "a pleasure to see the •29-ers over the re­union week and sorry that I was unable to stay for the entile ceremony." 
BILL KREIG (Bushmann, Kreig, DeVault & .Alex­ander, Indianapolis) "enjoj-ed a pleasant and success­ful 20->icar reunion." 
BOB McVety (Remington Rand, N. Y.) "so sorry I had to break away and return to New York Sat­urday evening." 
MICKEY McMAHON (North .American Co., New Orleans) "had an excellent time, but the long plane nde home was not exactly a picnic Sign me up for the 25th." 
FRED WAGNER (insurance and bonds. Tiffin, O.) enjo>'able weekend with so many planned festivities." 
TOM McDOUGAL (city treasurer—Antigo, Wis.) "a happy weelcend in my life and have receivetl Ictten from Mason, Kreig and Fitzgerald." 
FATHER JAMES NORTON (assistant director of studies, Notre Dame) ''a fine reunion and I will say the Masses for deceased '29-ers during the first week in July." 
PAUL BERTSCH (vice president, Rohmer Paper Co., Akron) "will have the color pictures of the Reunion soon. Paul. Jr., and I recently returned from a fishing trip in Canada." 
DON SCHETTIG (Schettigs Hardware, Ebens­bur^. Pa.) "felt no pain at the reunion. Sign mc up for the 25th Silver Jubilee Reunion." 
FATHER OTIS WLNCHESTER (Cleveland) ."wiU say the Masses for deceased '29-ers during July. Have rehashed tlie reunion with JOHN DORGAN, WIL­LIAM KREIG and CLETE SCHNEIDER." 
LOU NIEZER (.\iezer & Niczcr, Fort Wayne) "the highlight of the weekend was the class party at the Oliver Hotel Friday Night. Arrangements on the golf course were fine." 
BOB SCHULZE (1919—baseball manager) "the pitching of LARRY MOORE was superb and the defensive work of REGAN, VOGLEWEDE and KREIG was excellent. Stellar leg work by RED LEACH and O'CONNOR made F.\THER OTEY look good. What are we going to do for Father Otey's pitching arm?" 
FR.\NCIS MEYER (Drug Milling Co., Hammond, Ind.) "had a wonderful time at our get-together. Saw BOB FOGERTi' recently." 
F.ATHER LOUIS THORNTON (registrar, Notre Dame) "an enjoyable reunion. I completed the Masses for the deceased members of our class on July 5." 
DR. FRANK P. K.\NE (surgery, Binghamton, 
N. Y.) "recently returned from a fishing trip in Canada. Best regards to the '29-ers." 
F.XTHER JOHN MOLTER (zoology. University of Portland) "sorry to have missed the reunion. I will say the Masses for deceased members during the first week in August." 
DR. PAUL C. HE.M.MING (obstetrician, gyne­cologist, Elgin, 111.) "'sorry to have missed the re­union as I have patients that cannot wait. I did get JI.M TOBIN and ROLL SCHLAGER on their way to South Bend." 
BOB ALT (vice president, Mclnerney Spring and Wire Co., Grand Rapids) "an enjox-able weekend and it was a pleasure to see all the *29-ers." 
JOE LENIHAN (Fromm & Sichel, Inc., N. Y.) "an excellent weekend on the campus. Reserve a room in Dillon for our 25th." 
Masses for Deceased Members 

Twenty-four Masses for our deceased classmates have been celebrated since the Reunion by priests from our class. If you wish to add to this, let me know. 
WHAT ARE THE '29-ERS DOING? 

JOE NETTLETON is a cattleman at Murphy, Idaho, and is a member of the State Tax Commis­sion. ED GARRITY is owner of the Garrity Whole­sale plumbing and heating supplies Co. in Chicago. FRANCIS JONES is an attorney in South Bend. The Jones' have three children. Frank has just been named general chairman of the annual Football Banquet on Dec. 12. 
CLAUDE HORNING is president and manager of the Horning Lumber Co. in Akron. BILL BROWN is an attorney in Milwaukee, and JOHN BROWN is in Racine. When you are in Rochelle, III., stop and see VINCE CARNEY at Carney und Longe-' necker's. Clothiers. JOHN T. BURKE is in adver­tising with Chambers and Wiswell Inc. of Boston, and is president of the Beacon Broadcasting Co. REV. JAMES GIBBONS, C.S.C, is with the Historical Commission and can be reached at Seton Hospital, Austin, Texas. 
FRiVNK BUCKLEY is in the insurance and real estate business in Canonsburg, Pa. FRANK CROWE is with the Packard Motor Co. as director of per­sonnel and is active in the Detroit Notre Dame Club. Attorney P.AT GREENE can be reached at 415 E. Market, Louisville, Ky. ROBERT J. BRENNAN, 5 Charles St.. Pittsfieltl, Mass., sends his best wishes to ZI.MMERM.\N, FR/\NK O'BRIEN and LOU NIEZER. 
ED BAUM is in the insurance business in Battle Creek, -Mich. PETER BEE is chairman of the N. Y. State Institute of Applied Arts and Sciences at 51 5th Ave., N. Y. C. MAXIME GAUTHIER writes as division chief of Internal Revenue at Manchester, 
N. H. CHESTER SMITH is branch manager for .Associates Discount Corp., Toledo, O. T. RUSSELL McGR.ATH (real estate and banking) of Providence, 
R. I., vacationed at Mackinac Island recently. 
CHARLES DEGROOTE has a son at Notre Dame. CLINT FAILLE is with the "Daily News" in N. Y. JEA.\ L.-\ BOULE is owner of a mail advertising Company in Milu-aukee. CASPER GR.\THWOHL of Niles is active in the Michigan State Bar Association. 
W.ALTER GILDE.\ is in the refrigeration service business in Fort Wayne, Ind. HAROLD KAR­SHALL is vice-president of the Bankers Txtist Co. at 16 WaU St., N. Y. C. REGIS BITTNER is industrial sales engineer for the ZeUezbach Riper Co. in Los Angeles. BILL SIDENFADEN is presdent of Suburban Gas Service Inc. at Ontario, Calif. 
DR. JOHN J. SIMONES is practicing specialized medicine at LaCrosse, Wis. JAMES OTOOLE is in motion picture publicity in Los Angeles. 
CHARLES McCOLL is probation counselor of the Juvenile Court at Toledo. JOE JACHYM sends best regards to the '29.ers. Joe is a teacher and physical director at Westfield (Mass.) Trade School and can be reached at 16 Casimer St. JOHN NIEMIEC is baseball coach and teacher of physical education at Catholic Central in Steubenville, O. JOHN FOLISKY is physical director of the Cath­olic Conununity Center in Steubenville. 
CHARLES SCHLIECKERT is secretary-treasurer of Trenton Potteries Co., Trenton, N. Y. BILL BURNS writes as editor, Pubh'c Relations Depart­ment, of the Sun Oil Co., Philadelphia. The Bums' have fottr sons. FRANK ZAPPONE is in the in­surance business in Spokane, Wash. TOM JONES, Attorney-at-Law, Boise, -Idaho, has a son at Notre Dame in his second year. CHARLES KENNEDY is wth the N. Y. Life Insurance Co. in Tucson, Ariz. GEORGE BRAUTIGAM, attomey-at-Iaw, Coral Gables Fla., writes that he was unable to make the reunion because of a court appearance in New Orleans at that time. George sentls "hello, to all, as a Yankee tmmed Rebel." 
JOHN NASH is treasurer of the Nash Brothers Construction Co. in Chicago. WILLIAM S. O'CON­NOR is vice president of O'Connor S: Co., (whole­sale grocery) in Indianapolis. The O'Connors have tivo children. BILL CR.AIG of Munde, Ind., is vice-president of radio stations WLBC and WNUN. The Craigs have five children. 
Professor ELMO MOVER teaches electrical engi­neering at Rensselaer PoIytechm"c Inst, in Troy, N. 
Y. JOE NASH can be located at 469 East Ohio St., Chicago, where he is busy with sales and pro­duction of visual educational film and television. JOE WHALEN is manager of the Savery hotel in Des Moines. FRANK DOAN is in the advertising business and can be reached at 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. CLYDE ATCHINSON is assistant chief metallurgist for the Sheffield Steel Corp. in Kansas City, Mo. 
Summer School is drawing to a close as this is written and we are all packing for a fast run to Northern Michigan to do a little fishing and rest­ing. Later we will transfer to Northern Minnesota for more fishing before classes get under way in September. My crowd (Terry, Colleen and Pitsy) have had the tackle box and bait ready for nearly a week. See you in the fall. Keep the Faith.—Don. 
JOHN GREY has been appointed a commissioner of the New York State Liquor Authority. John has been with the Liquor Authority since 1933 as investi­gator, senior investigator, supervising investigator and deputy conunissioner. He and his wife reside in Belfast, N. Y. 
BERNIE LOSHBOUGH, formerly of the National Security Resources staff, Washington, D. C , has been appointed administrator of the Connecticut Housing Authority, Hartford. Bemie was termed by Gover­nor Bowles as one of the country's "ablest authori­ties on local housing." He will tlirect a new $95,(X)0,000 program. 
P.AUL BARTHOLOMEW, head of the PoUucal Science department at Notre Dame, was elected president of the new St. Joseph County Republican Men's Association. 
FRANK AHERN was elected president of the Travelers Club, the employee organization of the Travelers insurance companies in Hartford, Conn. He and his family reside at 61 Evergreen Avenue, Hartford. 
CHARLES BUSCHMEYER was awarded the de­gree of Master of Science in Education on Jime 12 
at Indiana University, Bloomington. 
1929 remembers that reunion party in the Oliver. From the left clockwise: Dan McCain. 
Ed Garrity, Lou Regan, Joe Whalen. Joe Lenihan. Jim Fitzpatrick. John Nash. Joe Nash and JAY WALZ, formerly of South Bend, is a Wash­ington correspondent for the "New York Times." 
Father Lou Thornton. CS.C. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

man will be FRANK ANL\TO of St. Paul; BILL JERRY PARKER, who is with the American Air 
&HLLER of Mississippi hopes to make the Tulane Lines in New York City, will be chairman for the 
1930 
Harold E. Duke. 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

ED CONROY, of San Antonio, w-as in Washing-Ion, D. C, for a \TSU this past summer. Ed, for­merly H-ith the Bureau of Ordnance in Washington, is advisor on administration to the mayor of San Antonio. 
At a July meeting of the Lions club in Hotel Mishawaka, DR. HENRY HINTON of the Chemis­try Department gave a talk on the latest discoveries in science and their evolution through research. 
CLARENCE KOZAK u-as seriously injured in an auto acddent near his home in Mansfield, O., in mid-summer. Through the prayers of his many friends on and off the campus, Koz>- is now on the road to recovery. 
HAROLD STEINBACHER has been appointed circuit judge of Calhoun County, Michigan, and until De c 31, 1949, octmpies temporary offices at 126 Capital Axienuc, NE, Battle Creek, Mich. 
DAN CANNON and BERNIE CONROV, general chairmen of the 20->-ear rtninion on June 9, 10 and 11, 1930, arc laboring early and late to produce a uxekend that vdW outrank e\'en the super-successful 1929 reunion weekend of joyful memory*. 
ToM-ard that end they have just appointed as local chairman for the event: DEVERE PLUNKETT, history prof at Notre Dame and brother of DON PLUNKETT who carried the local burden so hap­pily for 1929 last June. Don has promised to pass along to his brother all of the tridu of the reunion business. And De\'ere, with a lot of aid from other *30 men in the South Bend area, will add a few of his own. 
Bernle Coiut>y sums up in the following piece all that has been done so far—and it*s a great deal— to put the reunion together and make it tick! 
DAN CANNON, FATHER RAY TOTTEN, and m>'sclf got together at Dan's home in Columbus this summer and discussed plans for our 20-\*ear reunion at the Uni\"crsity next June. Dan plans to send out three or four letters to all the members of the class during the course of the year and we also decided to appoint state chairmen, whose duties will be to contact the class members in their own states. We find that there are many many address changes and a great deal of the success of this reunion will depend upon the personal contacts that these state chairmen will be able to make. In some states the cbatrman will find it advisable to designate other class members as city or local area chairmen. The response so far to our request for help in getting the reunion organized has been verv-fine and we have set our goal to exceed the 121 graduates of the class of 1929, who took part in their twentieth re­union last June. 
Father Ray Totten is \-cr\- happily located as as­sistant pastor at the Holy Rosary* Rcctorj-, 1651 E. Main St., Columbus. He has agreed to act as treas­urer for the reunion. DOUG D.\LEY reports from California that he will look after things in Los .An­geles and will be on hand for the reunion; JOHN REDG.\TE will organize Connecticut; JOE FAY of L>'ndalia. Wilmington, Del., is chairman of that state; JERRY HOLLAND checks in from Florida: CHUCK LENNON and TOM PURCELL have the job of covering lUinots: FRANK FINK, the editor oi "Our Sunday Visitor," and JOHN ROCAP, that lau-^-er from Indianapolis who gets around quite a bit as state deputy of the Knights of Columbus, should do a good job in Indiana; D.\X ^VEL­CHONS, the insurance man from Hutchittson, Kans., will be on hand; our representative in Kentuck\- will be DR. JOHN FORSEE of Louis\-ilIe: from Louisi­ana JACK NOWERV reports that VIC ^L^RTZELL and TED RYAN have already promised to attend with him; DINNY SHAY sa>-s he will be on hand but he is unable to find another classmate in tlie state of Maine. Dinny is now located at Bowdoin College. 
DAN SULLIVAN has things under control in Baltimore, Md., and JOHN V. MOR.^' is on the job in Boston; Kfichigan will be under the leadership of BILL REAUME of Grosse Pointe Farms and JOHN CONLIN of Monroe; in Minnesota our chair­game this fall as well as the reunion; GENE KIL­LOREN, attorney-at-law in St. Louis, has promised to contact everyone in Missouri; from Montana we had a nice note from FATHER RUSSELL SCHEID­LER of St. John's parish in Fairfield; DR. FRANK HAND will represent New Hampshire. 
TOM KEN.VEALLY and JOE ABBOTT will be the promoters from New Jersey; in New York the organizers will be CON CAREY and Personnel Di­rector TIM O'ROURKE; GUS BONDI, district manager of Norwood, O., branch of the Metropoli­tan Life Insurance Co., writes that he will be glad to work with AL SHIPACASSE, who is still lo­cated in Cleveland; JOE MOONEY will look after things in Oklahoma; from Pennsylvania we will have LEO CARNEY from Erie and HARRY FRANCIS from the Philadelphia section; LEO McALOON, that slim funeral director from Pawtucket, R. I., sa>-s that he expects to drag his few pounds away from his five little Indians long enough to take in the reunion. We wonder if anj-one will be able TO challenge Leo's daim to the heavyu-eight title? 
BILL SHERMAN reports from Knoxville, Tcnn., that he has already notified his family of his plans to attend the reunion. He has also been talking thinijs over with BILL SULLIVAN and LOU HEIT­GER; JOHN BFFTER has agreed to try to cover the state of Texas and search out any members of the class of 1930. John is working with White Uvalde Mines at San Antonio. PAT CONWAY is located at Arlington, Va., and will help from there; PAT GOGGIN of Seattle, Wash., suggests that DAN CANNON be assigned to work out a plan whereby the 1930 members who arc fathers of four or more children will be provided with a round trip and all expenses paid to the reutiion. 
TOMAfY McDOUGAL and TOM FROST wiU be co-chairmen of Wisconsin. Tom is looking after the Frost Farm Stores. Inc.. with headquarters in Madi­son. He writes that KARL BRENNAN is now lo­cated in Rockford, HI., with the W. T. Grant Company. DR. WALTER McFARL.\NE, whose new address is 201 Professional Blc^., Macon, Ga., will tr>' to locate some other '30 men in his state. 
In addition to the state <^innen, we are taking a graduate in each of the different colleges to repre­sent their classmates and help to de\-elop something intercsu'ng for the reunion. BOB EGGE^L\^^ of Fort Wa>-ne, is going to represent the law>-ers; CoUege of Arts and Letters; and JOHN GOLDEN" will work with the Commerce men. 
JACK FLYNN writes that he is no longer located in Arizona but that after almost four years in the Army, has settled at Seattle, Wash. He is operating-the Fourth & Pike Clinical Laboratory in that city and attends the functions of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington. MILTON FOX has prom­ised that be will be on hand for the reunion. He is located with the Peter Fox Brewing Company on West Monroe St. in Chicago. 
DR. VOB JACKSON reports from the State Uni­versity of Iowa that he doubts ver^* much that he-will be able to attend the reunion since he expects to present a paper at the International Pediatric Congress in Zurich, Stvitzerland, next July. He sa)*:­that he sees DICK O'TOOLE and BOB ZEIS at medical meetings. 
In a letter from ED FEEHERY he stated that he runs into TOM PURCELL, BILL McCARTHY and HARRY O'ROURKE in Chicago. Ed's hair is starting to turn gray hut he didn't say whether it was the rush of business or the worries of trying to-raise his four children that is causing it< 
1931 
Waller F. Piulipp, 4 Pickwick Lane. Newton Square, Pa. EUGENE COYLE is now associated with the Bu­reau of Internal Re\-enue in Washington, D. C. 
JOE ROBINSON was promoted to personnel manager of the New Departure plant, in Sandusky, 
O. His home address is 1118 Fifth Street, Sandus­ky. He had been with New Departure plant in Bristol, Conn. 
1932 
lames K. Collins, 17 Triangle 
ATC., Dayton 9. O. 
TOM B.\TH was appointed chairman of the ad­vanced gifts division for the fall campaign in the Community Chest drive in South Bend. Tom, an insurance man, is the former Indiana secretary' of state. 

These are some of the Noire Dame men '«die a n weridng in the Chicago area for the Allstate Insurance Co. Seated, from left are: Bobeit E. German. '32, advertising manager. John T. Moran. '30, claim manager, ond Alvin G. Kdlski. '31, assistant claim manager. Standing are: Edword I. Htmter, '42, underwriter, John M. O'Bourice. '43, preparation division, and 'William F. Bupp, '33, assistant general counsel. 
1933 
Joseph D. A. McCabe. Rosary College, Biver Forest HI. 

From JOE McCABE: Dear *33-ers: During the next few weeks the under-written underwriter of this here column in­tends to send out a broadside of postcards in the hope of getting a few names to sprinkle through the continuity. It's a mail-order SOS, lads—f*ev\-eiis sake WRITE, before LOUIS BUCKLEY lowers the boom on us '33-ers. Judging from the response they get here for the Rosary College "Alumnae News," maybe I ought to write your wives . . . perhaps they'd blow the whistle on you! 
Dropped into MAURY LEE'S office a little while back and will testify without subpoena that every­thing seems to be going well for him. He deposed that the last he had heard all was well with FRANK MATABOWSKI. ED VYZRAL, KITTY GORMAN, JIM LARKIN, DON WISE and JOE KIRINCICH. 
Saw FRANK McGEE while loop-stroUing, and he gives a favorable report. Bumped into TOM CON­LEY (not physically, fortunately for me) and he looks in the pink, and reports that somebody reads this effort—^Tom said that after I mentioned his name in this space a while back he heard from a friend he hadn't been in touch with since gradua­tion. PAT and JERRY CROWLEY'S mother died recently—your prayers will be appreciated—and a great number of N.D.'s turned out for her funeral, including TOM SEXTON, ED STEPHAN, AL STEPAN, and others. FATHER CAVANAUGH, Notre Dame president, said the funeral Mass. 
Your class scribe visited the old campus a few weeks ago, and had pleasurable chats with FATHER JOHN WILSON (Hack, to we-knew-hira-whenners), F-^THER "CHICK" SHEEDY. TOM STRITCH and FRANK O'MALLEY, as well as The Founda­tion and ALUMNUS—JIM ARMSTRONG and BILL DOOLEY- You'll ne\-cr believe it, but it was actually cool down there. Good thing, as >-ours sincerely is not the young thing he was when he ran up mileage touring those grounds in '33. You'll hear different views from more authoritative sources, but the scattering of summer-schooling footballers we saw down there looked capable of winning a same or two. 
Met TOM MURPHY, formerly of Newport, R. I., the other day. He was in Chicago on business, said he has mo\'ed to Buffalo, and is with Armoiu-'s, as he has been ^nce graduation. Looked like a testi­monial to the good red meat they sell, too. (Sec— I'll even give your employer a plug, for free! Drop a line, and charge the stamp to business expense.) 
The \{rs. and our two—me too—picnicked with BOB GORNL\N, hU wife Ellen and their three on a Wilmette beadi one of those hot July daj-s. No ants, though. 
OCTOBER DEVOTION—Any month is good, but October would be particubrly timely for beginning the First Saturday devotion in honor of the Blessed ilother. That's the devotion suggested to com­memorate Her appearance at Fatima, remember— attend Mass, receive Communion, and say the Ro­sary- on the first Saturday of five successive months. Y'ou can get started right in October, too—because the first Saturday is No. 1 day . . . Oct. 1. As graduates of Her school. let*s get in line—help avert the "terrible catastrophe," She warned the world was coming if Her words were unheeded. Don't let non-Catholic propagandists fool you—devotion to His Blessed Afother is the best way to honor Christ. Sec you at the rail Oct. 1! 
R. I. P. Your pra>*ers are earnestly requested for the repose of the soul of classmate: TOM BLACK­WELL of Indianapolis. Tom is surnved by his wife and four children—they'll need our prayers, too. Don't forget Tom and his lo^-ed ones, fellows . . . w-e never know whose turn it is next, and it would be mighty comforting, if we see that number coming up, to feel that the rest of the '33s would be in there praying. It's a good idea to try to remember our deceased classmates in our daily prayers. 
CLEVE CAREY, former retail sales promotion manager of the Rexall Drag Co., has been ap­pointed advertising and sales promotion manager %vith headquarters in Los Angeles. 
Cleve, who joined Rexall in 1946 as associate re­tail advertising manager, will direct the company's 
A Notre Dame man, Clyde A. Lewis, '34, Plattsburg, N. Y., is the new conunander-in­ciiief of tiie Veterans of Foreign Wars. He was elected at the annual VFW national convention in Miami in August, where Presi­dent Harry S. Truman was the top speaker. 
Mr. Lewis, right, is shown above with his Notre Dame classmate, Mayor E. Spencer Walton of Mishawaka, who is the junior state vice-commander of the VFW in Indi­ana. The picture was taken as the two Notre Dame alumni attended the state VFW convention in Indianapolis earlier in the summer. 
Mr. Lewis received his law degree at Har­vard in 1939. He enlisted in the Army Air Forces in 1942, rose lo the rank of major and participated in 36 bombing missions over Europe. He was elected junior vice commander-in-chief of the VFVf in 1947 and was advanced from that post to his present rank. 
sales promotion, advertising, publicity, package de­sign, and two national network radio shtyws for 10,000 Rexall stores and 400 company-owned retail outlets. 
Before serving four years in the army, dev e was assistant to the advertising manager of the J. C. Penney Co., New York City, and prior to that was advertising manager of the B. R. Baker Co., Cleve­land. 
JOE SWrrZER, St. Louis, was the tournament medalist and also shot the lowest qualifying round in the St. Louis district section of the National Amateur golf tournament. .loe bter participated in the South Bend Country Club Invitation tourna­ment, which was won by TOM SHEEHAN, De­troit, and his partner, Ed Flowers. 
FATHER MAURICE POWERS, C.S.C, writes from Kyushu, the southernmost island of Japan, where he is stationed as deputy chief of the theatre and div*isional chaplain. Father Powers is very near the Hiroshima district and Nagasaki. 
'*AIter seeing both cities several times, one be­comes an immediate advocate of atomic control," he sa>^. 
Mrs. Frank Nattier, alumna of St. Mary's, writes from Manila that she and her husband have met sev­eral Notre Dame men and among them- EDUARDO ROXAS and his wife. She also reports that EN­RIQUE "Mike" BRIAS lives two houses down from their place. Mike, says Mrs. Natier, "is maiiied to a very lovely girl, Tessie, and they just had a lovely little girl, Marie Teresa, whom they will call Tessa." 
1934 

Edward F. MaiMGald. SS7S (aanweed. Chicago 2t. ID. 
From ED MANSFIELD: 
Class secretaries ARE cooipeiBated! That part of the job. wasn't mentioned wbem those "ja" votes for a new secretary, were coonted by CAHILL with his stock-splitting tecjmiqiie '3* reunion night. That self-protective gesture, with cacb vote counting for four, prevented the sta^um-sdloiit salesman from getting the seuetaiyship hinnrif as a lifetime gift from 122 reumoneis buoyant -wiA grad­tude for his reunion chairmaa.craft. 
The compensation? ReaDy a deal: you don't have to answer your maiL You just print paragxaplis bum '34 friends in the Al.oit»vs, add ycnr cnvn COOH ment—rand your letters are answered! 
Actually, the biggest bounce comes from ^ad words from the scattered, such as JOHN "RED" EDWARD TOBIN, the prototype of the Shennan tank, and JAMES "SCHOLASTIC, '34, '35" FITZ­PATRICK. 
We have some added notes on the reunion, but let's catch up on Tobin, tlie JancsviUe Tenor, aa adopted '34 guy popular enough to have three chssei ^^'*im him. 
Red writes frcon 106. Lansing St., Kbdison, Wis^ where he heads the contact section of the VA. Our reunion notice caught him with an address not nied for eight years, so he faces toward the post office at sundown each day. Red's writin' reads: 
"Since having that ^dress, I have crossed and re-crossed the equator, had tea and crampets with the Aussies, fished with the Fozzy^Wnzzies of New Guinea, and shed my sympathy on the natives of Manila. Came out of the conflict urith some malaria, which is now part of my personal medical history, apparently. 
"It was certainly good to hear from yoa* Have thought about you and my friends from Notre Dame many times. Attended a meetii^ of the South Cen­tral Wisconsin Notre Dame <ivh last month, and enjoyed it very mndi. Renewed some friendshipi that were becoming musty with the passage of time. 
"Sorry I couldn't make the reunion. At the time, I was on active military doty, keeping my coonni^ sion alive. On July 4 came down with lobar pneu­monia and have been convalescing since my rdeaae from the hospital. Am now as sound as our 1937 dollar. 
"Give my hello to any ND men you mi^t nm across." 
(Now, here's how you answer mail, tridily, on ALUMNUS rates: Now bear this. Red, your plan to see the White Sox is approved, so name the day and 111 meet you—on a we^end, that is). 
Now for Jim Fitzpatrick, who turned hh back oo Olney, HI., for the Hotd Daunou, 6 rue Daunou, Paris. A reunion come-ye-back ^ipeal reached ^^ over yonder, so be, too, faces the post o£Bce at sun­down. Ex-Scholasticman, cx^Sorin-sabmarincr, Jim 
• writes from Paris in very clear Eng^isb for an ex­patriate: 
"After Pearl Harbor I went into the Air Corps as a private and wound up as a first lieutenant in mJli­tary government in Japan four years and aght months later. I spent a year in f^p^lr^ came to Europe, studied in T-at^ann^ for three Tmmthf, Vaxh for eight, Dublin for ^ht . I just leieiteU my ifipli^ ma in library training from the National Univcrnty of Ireland and am now bock in Vam as librarian for the EGA. 
"At the last ND banquet in L.A. I attended, I sat next to LOU HRUBY. LAURIE VEJAR, RO­MEO ALLARD, and BEN ALEXANDER were at that banquet, and DICK MULLEN from Sioux Falls. Have bad flashes of news of JIM KEARNS, and ai a "Time" reader, I see TIGHE WOODS' name and face in print. I %irrote him up as "Man of the Week," my last assignment with the "Sdiolastic" my junior year. Two years ago I stopped in Cantos and saw GEORGE P. BCALONET. 
"I'm partioilaxly interested in TOM DAVID and that teQcr of tales—the poor man's Somerset Man^­ham—BILL OTOOLE. Tdl the boys I'm nn ^ content but not smug, and fi|^ting the good fi^t for a place in the sun." 
(I now answer another letter, saving transworid postage: Dear Jim: I told the boys-Edward. P.S.— 
30 

better order a red *34 cap so you and BUD VTTT and HAROLD RHODDY can reunion along the Rue dc la Pay and Pay and Pay. We renamed that street in daj-s when the finance office figured base pay at 50 francs for a buck.) 
Chicagoland notes: JOHN R. O'HANLON, of Washington, Dee Cce, engineer, tennis captain, ex-army major} called the Mansfield place while the secretary was road-running in search of Crown Zeller­bach paper customers. And PAtTL ANTHONY MURPHY MANOSKI joined Mr. and Mrs. M at a Sox-Cleveland double feature at the Comiskey sum­mer theater. PAMM was on his annual pilgrimage to County Kennedy, once knovs-n as New Hampton, la., but re-dubbed with the advent of Kevin, Kathleen, and Michael, progeny of WILLIAM BUNK JO­SEPH KENNEDY, barrister. 
'34 kitchen scullions will remember a '35 key man on the dish-iackers' team, PETE HEARDEN of Green Bay. Red saj-s: "Good to read your coverage on the class of *34 and find they are still trusting you with the records, if not the cash. I have been dou-n among the Hoosier alumni for almost two years. (Pete left Chicago for 428 Architects Building, UARCO business forms, Indianapolis.) 
JOE HANRATTY, Lakewood, O., wTOte BOB CAHILL to explain his absence from the reunion. Joe lost his dad at that time and we know the class joins in this belated note of sympathy. 
Did you notice that NICK LUKATS became na­tional VP of the Monogram Club? Nick is still west. Know Red Tobin would like to get in touch with him. 
Word from another part of the west announced the engagement of GENE 6LISH of Denver and Miss Susan Monti of St. Louis. 
Three last notes on the reunion, and we'll turn all c>-es to '54: CHICK MARRA reported TOM DALTON'S surprised gratitude for the tele\Tsion set presented by the class for Tom's use at bed­side in Kingsbridge Veterans Hospital, Bronx, N. Y. There is an address for the 500-plus letter writers on the class roster to use right now. 
Note two: for those of you who don't read the fine print, the class gave §203.76 to the Science Center fund, and nice words of thanks went to Chairman Cahill from Father JOHN J. CAVA­NAUGH, C.S.C., and from JIM ARMSTRONG of the Foundation command post. 
Note three, and well: Chairman Cahill rocked back in his chair often in late June, the better to read some 14 letters expressing pleasure over the reunion razzle-dazzle. The pen-in-hand people were RAY TROY, JIM COLE (Communiiv Elevator Co., Hillview, HI.), JIM O'BRIEN (Western Massachu­setts Supply, Pittsfield), RALPH ELSE, J. J. "THE RED" FORREST (New England man for Dumore Co. of Racine, the Hamiltons' firm), Father SEBAS­TL\N (JACK) EAGAN, O.F.M., of Denver, MIKE FOX, VINCE REISHM.-\N of Charleston. AL SMITH, CHARLEY QUINN, PAUL iL-\NOSKI TO.M O.AKES, and EDDIE O'BRIEN. 
These gentlemen below either made rescn-au'ons for a reunion junket and got side-tracked, or WTOte to explain their absences: 
TON'Y ANZLOVAR: Mercast Corporation of New York, in Cleveland laboratory. 
Dr. JOHN BIRCH: an MD in Onarsa, lU., who just lost a five->-car-old son prior to the reunion. 
GEORGE BRUNO: teaching in St. Louis, and held at home because of a recent family addition; called to relay his reunion regards. 
JOHNNY BRUST: of Brust and Brust, architects, Milwaukee. 
Father AUGUSTINE CIMA, O.S.B.: from St. Bede's Peru, HI.—"Success and happiness to all of you. I am a religious and therefore can only be pres­ent in spirit.*' 
JOE CLARK: on a navy tour from Washington just at reunion time. 
JOHN CONLEY: as assistant to the president of McCormick & Co. of Baltimore, sailed to Europe with the head man for two months. 
printing at York, Nebr.; was a navy man at the Jap war trials. 
DAVE DALRYMPLE: boning for the bar in June in New York. 
Rev. SEBASTIAN (JACK) EGAN, O.F.M.: Franciscan missionary missioning out of Denver. 
ED FARLEY: not back to the campus in 12 >Tar5,* Ridgewoodj N. J.; three children. 
HUGH FITZGERALD: New York, three children —no more news, Hugh. 
BILL FROMM: in Chicago; business took him elsewhere June 10. 
TED GABRESKI: another MD; in Atlantic City for the AMA session reunion weekend. 
JIM GILFOIL: a six-child daddy; Tallulah, La. 
JIM GRIFFIN: law>er of Rome (New York, that is); local Elks head man. 
ED HALLAUER: wife just over serious operation, so unable to leave Chicago (class hopes she's fine, Ed). 
BOB HALPIN: Bethany Airwa\^, Inc., Bethany, Conn. 
CHARLIE HECKELMANN: a new baby due, and a new house to occupy kept novel-writing Charlie around Glendale, L. I. (He was given a good blow in a recent ALUMNUS for his writing; one journalist who made it stick!) 
W. G. HOCKBERGER: wrote from Billings, Mont., to report a 10-year absence from the campus; three children. 
ART HOENE: did Hockberger four better by staging away 14 years to date. (Portland, Ore., no wonder!) 
FRANK HOXERKAMP Co.: pl>-wood, plastics, Bronx. 
BILL HUISKING: a New York meeting kept him there instead of here. 

LES JANDOLI: tried to be in two places that weekend, couldn't; lives in Newark. 
BOB KELLEY: Los .Angeles Convention and Vis­itors Bureau. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
FRANK LA BORNE: brother married June 11, so he was around Wcstbury, L. I., when we gath­ered at Dillon. 
EDMUND LAMB: I do believe, from the letter­head, that he's in the lamb business in Michigan, 
N. D. 
NICK LUKATS: the versatile Nick, one of the unsung ND backs of his day, thanks to five losses in *33 that obscured his dexterity, WTote from Al­buquerque that he would be roamin* the coast June 10. 
FRANK MAHAR: one of the away-for-I5-years men, missed again because of business. 
VINCE MAUREN: W. B. Barber Co., petroleum, Afinneapolis. 
J. B. McANULTY: general manager. Wells Fargo, New York. 
ED J. MCCARTHY : from Chicago, a last-minute reunion cancellation. 
AL MONACELLI: was refreshing for the bar after a 13-ycar layoff in New York. 
Rev. WILL4M MONAGHAN, C.S.C: wrote from the bishop's house, Dacca, East Pakistan; in India since '34 except for a trip home in '47; (if we adoDt a m'ssionar>" abro:id as a class, herd's a name); rela>-ed regards to Father ED MURRAY. 
JOHN J. O'CONNOR: Hogue Mercantile Co. (nut products), Kansas City, Mo., in Dallas on our big weekend. (Lovely wife, four children, and a most hospitable home, all who visit there will testi­fy-Sec.) 
RUSS RICKUS: with Zarnitz Bros, wholesale gro­cer)-. Wheeling. 
BILL REILLY: "The Sicn" magazine. Union City, N. J. 
RALPH ROGERS: 4,000 round-trip miles away in Sacramento; reported five children, and was really doleful about inability to attend; marked up for '59 on his card. 
CLIFF SAUSVILLE: engineering department, Bal­lantine Brcwer\-, Nev%-ark, N. J. 
GEORGE SHIELDS: Keeler Brass Co.. Grand 

CLYDE GRAIN: detained in Detroit by the immi­Lew Crego leads the way as 1934 people slash into their groceries at the reunion party nence of a family addition. in the Oliver on June 10. Back oi Lew are: John Alt Leo Brugger, Red Hagon. Ed Fisher JIM CURRAN: sold his daily newspaper, now in and Charlie Quinn. 
Rapids. Mich.: ill the reunion weekend; should have tried Dr. CahiU*s herb medicine in Dillon sub. 
JOE SIMON: wishes the boys well from Jersey City, N. J. 
BYRON "GAPPY" SMITH: Tulsa; was all set until the last minute. 
HAROLD ''MINNIE" SPORL: very doleful letter about non-arrival; then a phone call to explain why; 
C. A. Sporl Co., insurance brokers, New Orleans. 
FRANCIS "BUD" VITT: had to leave Washing­ton for Paris, Austria, and Italy, but ordered re­union caps for his two boj-s (bet he wore one in Paris); relayed regards to Gene Holland and his Chicago associates. 
Another traveler: BILL McCORMIGK just left Brazil after three years. 
NORM DUKE received the Master, of Laws de­gree from George Washington University, Washing­ton, D. C , at the fximmencement on June I. HARRY ROSS, *46, received a Bachelor of Lau-s degree at the same time. 
VIN McALOON is in Europe for the Third Order of St. Francis. 
Another (?) '34 man getting national headlines is CLYDE LEWIS, Plattsburg, N. Y., and now nation­al commander of the VFW. Clyde trained for the post as national vice-commander, and the busy tear­ing around that job demanded blocked him from the June reunion of fond memory. 
He was set to get to the Friday night Oliver party, but unmatchable airline schedules to Louisiana and other lush landing places kept him away. 
Clyde was a major in the military- organization that chased A. Hitler into a Berlin molehill, and has obviously done a workmanlike job with his postwar assignment. Proof: he's CO of the outfit! He and President Truman had a talk in Washington soon after the election (Clyde's, not Harry's), and that led to the national wire story that the President leaned toward laughing Communism to death and not tov%-ard legislating against it. 
1935 

Franklyn C, Hochreiter, 1327 Pentwood Rd., Baltimore 12, Md. 
From HOCH: 
Here we are again, gang, and this time wc can 
make up for our last time to press when we pro­
duced nothing. 
First of all, we announce th- co-chairmen of the 1950 reunion. They are BILL RYAN and PAT LYNCH, both of whom live in South Bend—about each of them, more later. In the meantime, we want all of the '35ers to know that plans for the 15-year reunion are in good hands. Bill and Pat will be in contact with the Alumni Office, and together we shall all attempt to give you a bang-up weekend. 
Now to the mail and the visits during recent weeks. First, TOM PROCTOR wrote a short note early in June and commented that BEN BEYRER "owes me a letter, EO he should not seek informa­tion about me from you." 
A July 8 letter arrived fom ED SIMPSON, with Illinois Bell Telephone Company, E\'anston, III. He has an interesting request which we arc quite will­ing to share in—this from Ed after 14 years: 
"After GEORGE DEMETRIO'S recent missile I feel justified in defending m>-self. First, I must as­sure you that when George said I was the big shot at the local telephone comoany he forgot to dot the 
i. (I dare you to print it!) My Job is with *Ma Bell,' however, and my handle is district ser\"ice engineer; me, a Commerce graduate! One of my as­sistants is a pre-med, so I can't feel too badly. 
"Dorothy and I had BERNIE O'BRIEN and JOHNNY MALLOY and their families out to the house a short time ago. Bernie is coaching football and several minor sports at Hirsch High School in Chicago. He does some teaching on the side. John­ny Malloy is still with U. S. Fidelity and Guarantee in Chicago. I belie\-e he*s an underwriter. 
"I have been 'beating the drum' for the last few months for Father ED BAUER, C.S.C., (Class of 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Judge Thomas J. Meagher 

THOMAS J. MEAGHER, '36, as of Jan. 1, 1949, is judge of the Children's Court in Rochester, N. Y. And on Universal Notre Dame Night this year he was named by the Notre Dame Club of Rochester as the Notre Dame man of the year in his area and re­ceived the club's official scroll in recognition of the honor. 
After finishing at Notre Dame in 1936, Judge Meagher received his LL.B. from Syracuse University College of Law in 1940. Licensed in 1941 to practice law in New York state, he is at present senior member of the law firm of Claus & Meagher in Rochester. He is a member of numerous organizations and chairman of the Catholic Speaker's Bureau. 
'37) in an effort to help him raise some funds for his little colored mission down in South Austin, Texas. He is doing a marvelous job according to recent reports, but is plagued with lack of funds to carry on. He is too modest and shy to really 'put the bite* on some of his fellow alumni and I have been helping him along those lines. 
".•\ttached are copies of two letters from Father Ed. They give you an idea of the scope of his activities and what he is trying to accomplish. HOCH, this may be somewhat unorthodox, but could you in any way help to publicize Father Ed's work in such a manner that might stimulate some 5mall contribution from our class? I will really appreciate anything you can do that might help him. 
"I get quite a kick out of reading our class column and feel relieved at finally getting around to write you—after all it only took 14 years." 
Thanks a million, Ed. I hope ED B.AUER will realize something from this notice. You may cor­respond with Father Ed at Holy Family Church, 618 West Johanna St., Austin, Texas. How about some help? 
x\nother "lost soul*' wrote on the same day as ED SIMPSON, but this guy is in Tyler, Texas. That's right, he is MITCH SALEH. Says Mitch in part: 
"Since returning to Texas after four years in the Navy, I've been living here in the old home town. As you already know. I took the big step (after all these years) some 13 months ago and was married in Slidell, La., to the former Adele Haddad. Note: no regrets, this should have happened to me 10 years ago. I'm associated with an imcle in the field of real estate and oil properties. A far cry from my experience in electrical engineeriiu; durii^ the pre­war years, but now thii ^ are much more satts­factory in many respects. 
"I seldom see any of the old gang down this %vay, and since my last report, I've seen only RAY KEATING and TOM STANDISH again, down in Houston. They're both doii^ very well, especially in a family way. A few months ago, tfae Keatings were blest with twins, making a total of four on the Keating roster. That tied the Stanflish score, but not to be outdone, I twderstand the Standishes are expecting No. 5 in the not too distant future." 
It's been a long time, Mitch, and your letter came as a welcome surprise. Hope you got the tickets! 
We want to offer the felicitations of the class to JIM CORRIGAN, now. Rev. James Corrigan, S.J. Jim was ordained to the priesthood on June 14. His first Solemn Mass was celebrated on June 19 in St. Bernard's Church, Wauwatosa, Wis. 
Another '35er from whom we have heard nothing since that fata] June day in 1935, dropped us a card. He is ED CALDWELL. Thanks a million, Ed, for your offer of service. We may ha\'e to call on you. But In any e%-ent, we look forward to seeing you at the Reunion Days, Ed— 
"It has been a long time since we lived across from each other in St. Edward's Hall. Naturally, I am married and have two lovely children, boy Jeffrey six, girl Robin 8 months. Spent four years in the Navy, came out a LCDR. I am coaching at John Ac^ms High School in Cleveland, where I have been since graduating. I have some swell assistants and wc have been lucJty. If ever jxiu and the family are anywhere near Cleveland (we Ii\-e in Brecksiille, O., 10 miles out) be sure you pay us a call. Wc have a nice place on four acres of land. Needless to say, the kids love it. 
"I wanted to say that I will be at the reunion in 1950 and hope to see some of the old gang around. If th»re is any job I can lend a hand to I shall be only too glad to help. At present I have command of a na\-al battallion here in Cleveland, so I have the facilities for mimeographing or other odd jobs. 
We had an announcement from ART CONRAD out there in Chicago. It seems that Art has turned tables on his former chief, in the National Physi­cians Committee. Art was associate director there, with a Mr. Pratt as director. Now, out comes the National Institute of Professional Services wt h Art down as president and Mr. Pratt as "policies coun­sel." 
The Institute is open for business at "5 Wacker Drive. It is a "corporation offering public policy counsel." We quote from the prosi>ectus: 
"Business, commerce and the professions in this country are face to face with the necessity of meet­ing realistically the creeping encroachments of Col­lectlvist doctrine and deeds. The meaning of these subversions must be understood and must be coun­tered—IF the independence of the professions is to be maintained and our Freedom of Enterprise SN-stem is to be preserved. 
"A preponderant majority of all men must be reconvinced of the advantages of the American Way over all others. There must be a rededication to the principles which, in essence, are America. This is a war of survival. 
"The Nadonal Insdtute of Professional Services offers top-ranking personnel with proven effectiveness in operation in this and in other Wtal fields of endeavor." 
And now to oiu: visitors—ED BRIED, who, inci­dentally, took his Ph.D. at Notre Dame in 1938, blew into town early in August. Ed is in technical service of the Naval Stores Department of the Hercules Powder Company at Wilmington, Del. 
During the war, Ed was in chemical research, but recently he turned to sales with the country as his territory. Married with four children, Ed is a prosperous credit to our class. 
Over the lunch table Ed told us of the doings of a number of our gang, so here goes: 
NORB TOUSSAINT is Director of Research for the Ditto Corporation in Chicago. 
CHARLIE HILL is a surgeon in Washington, 
D. G. GEORGE HILL, his brother, is a chemical engineer with the Da Pont Corporation in La Porte, Texas. 
LOUIS ALAMAN is with Worthington Pump and Machinery Corp., as the general manager of the ?hfexico division ofHce: in Mexico Cit>*. Lou is coming to the Baltimore office in December, 
CARLOS DE LANDERO is a govcrmnent engi­neer in or near Me»co City. JACK WALTERS is doing engineering with the Universal Oil Co. in Chicago. JOHN VERBANC is with the rubber division of the Jackson Laboratories in Wilmington, Del. 
ART KRANZFELDER is a research chemist with the Lilly Corporation in Indianapolis. JERRY DOYLE is with the Beaumont Rice Co. as sales manager down in Beaumont, Texas. JIM SEY­MOUR is Avith the Hooker-Electro Chemical Corp. in Niagara Falb, N. Y. 
RALPH GAUTHIER was with a paper company Jn New York City the last time he was heard from-
And then we had a surprise phone call the other evening from BILL RYAN. Bill was in Baltimore to supervise the taking over of a local finance com­pany by his ow*n corporation—.Associales Investment Co. of South Bend. 
Bill has been with Associates since graduation. He has moved from the accounting department through several steps and has now come out as assistant secretarj'. Among his duties is the supervision of the company's auditors traveling the countrv'. Bill is married and has two children. As you read above, he will be co-chairman of our reunion with PAT LYNCH. 
PAT (or, if v-ou prefer, Joe) LYNCH has joined the staff of the 0*Brien Corp. of South Bend during the past year. Pat has scvwal daughters. 
JOHN RYAN, Biirs brother, has three children, is living in Downers Grove, outside Chicago. He is selling for a spring company in the "windy dty." 
RAY MARGRETT is branch manager of the White Plains office of Associates Investment Com­pany. 
NORB HART is at home in Munde, Ind., and in the insurance business. Norb has three bovs. 
That*s it, gang—keep the dope coming! 
1937 
Frank J. BeiUy, 1651 MetropoUtczn Ave^ New Yoik City 62, N. Y. 
FATHER JOE ENGLISH has been named direc­tor of the Maryknoll House at 121 East 39th Street, New York City. Father Joe served as assistant direc­tor of the house until last >'ear, when he was assigned to the Marj'knoll House in New Bedford, Mass. 
ALBERT McALOON, according to his brother, LEO, '30, is in charge of displaced persons in rrankfort, Germany. 
1938 
HAL WILLL\MS, the able and hard-working secretary of the class since 1938, left on Aug. 5 for Germany where for a >"ear he will be a foreign cor­respondent for his paper, the "Baltimore Sun." Hal left his wife and child with his wife's family in Frederick, Md., since he will be traveling a great deal abroad, covering the Russian situation, German politics and the Army of Occupation. 
Just before be sailed, Hal submited his resignation as class secretary, and the Alumxu Office, with the deepest reluctance, accepted it. How much Hal has done for his class and for Notre Dame generally those of us in the Altmini Office perhaps know bet­ter than anybody dse. That is why we are so grateful to him. The best wishes of the University and the Alumni Association are with him in his assigimient in Europe, an assignment which is, cer­tainly, a well-merited recognition by his emplo>-er of his ability and devotion. 
JOHN O'CONNOR has been appointed a mem­ber of the Indianapolis Rent Advisory Board. John is a member of the law firm of Ruckclshaus, Reilly, Rhetts and 0*Connor. 
Word comes from FATHER JEROME BOYLE, C.S.C., that PAUL LOCHER, who had been study-
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
Rev. Frederick I. Digby 
REV. FREDERICK J. DIGBY, '39, was in July named executive director of the Asso­
ciated Catholic Charities in the archdiocese of Ne w Orleans. 
Graduated from Notre Dame in 1939 at the age of 19, Father Digby worked in the advertising department of the New Orleans Item and did public relations work for sta­tion WWL, New Orleans, before he entered Notre Dame Seminary, New Orleans, to study for the priesthood. 
After Father Digby was ordained on St. Patrick's Day, 1945, he was assigned to his home parish, St. Rita's in New Orleans, as assistant pastor. Transferred in a few months to the parish of St. Leo the Great, he was in 1947 sent by Archbishop Rummel to Catholic University, Washington, D . C , for graduate work in Social Service. H e re­ceived his master's degree there in June of this year. 
Noel F. Digby, '48, is a brother of Father Digby. Their father, also Fred Digby, is general manager of the New Orleans Mid-Winter Sports Association, sponsor of the Sugar Bowl sports activities. 
ing at the Sorbonne in Paris for three >-ears, re­ceived his doctorate in history this summer. Paul had his master's from Harvard and spent two years at the U. S. Embassy in Turkey. Afodern European history- is his special field along with international relations. Father Boyle also received his doctorate at the Sorbonne and is now a member of the Notre Dame faculty. 
BROTHER HILARION, C.S.C., formeriy director of St. Charles' boys* home, Milwaukee, is the new director of Boysville at Clinton, Mich. 
JOE CALLAHAN writes in a letter to HAL WILLL\MS: 
"I was married in the 1-og Chapel on the Univer­sity campus on Easter Sunday last (April 17, 1949). The young lady concerned is—or was—Mary Hall of Jackson Heights, Long Island, N. Y. FATHER FRANK CAVANAUGH offidated and our attend­ants were classmate CHARLIE CALLAHAN (no relative) and his lovely wife, Betty. 
We were married at a Mass and then departed to the Coffee Shop at the Oliver for a quiet breakfast. 

**The University went out of its way to make us feel welcome and Charlie Callahan and his wife were out of this world in their kindness. 
"We finished up with a trip to Florida and are presently settled down to something resembling rou­tine. 
"Vm now a member of the New York City Police Department—by way of bringing you up to date. 
"Incidentally, please accept my congratulations for that brother of yours. He's done very well for him­self and at our last club meeting here in New York FRANK LEAHY gave him a great send-off." 
A postscript on the same letter: "I see RIGGIE DiBRIENZA (a doctor in Brooklyn), CAS VANCE, DUFFY DOLAN and VIC MERCADO quite regu­larly. Wg has two boys, Cas Vance two girls. We have fairly regular get-togethers." 
JACK ZERBST stopped in at the Alumni Office in early September for a welcome chat. On a three-month leave from his duties as managing director of the Union Carbide and Carbon subsidiary in Brazil, Jack, with his wife and child, was expecting to sail for South America toward the end of Sep­tember. His address—and he'd really very much like to hear from you—is Union Carbide do Brasil, Rua Silveirada Mota 621, Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
1939 
Vincent DeCourseY. 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2« Kans. 
From VINCE DE COURSEY: 

Again a rather bleak review of news of 1939 goings-on. No current letters and only a few chance bits of information. A new Labor Day resoluuon (under the whip of Mr. DOOLEY) to write a few of the faithful each month and demand news might prove to be the end at the drought of news items. 
Did discover a few unimportant facts in a long-ago letter from JIM TANSEY, from 95 \Vilson Street, Norwood, Mass., which was a long way to take a wife who hailed from the personally well­remcmbered town of Waterville, Kans. Jim, before the war was with the K. of C . but has since re­formed and is now with the Glidden Co. in the Boston territory. 
Had, early in May, an anguished letter from FRED SIMON out in the wilds around Waco, Texas, bewailing the absence of tickets to the N.D.-Southcrn Methodist game (a complaint that is not confined to Waco, nor to T«as) . This game really ought to be played cne-half in something like the Coliseum in Los Angeles and the second-half in Franklin Field — and at that there would probably be screaming. As a purely personal thing, if you know of a couple of available ducats, let us hear about it. Fred could, I know, use *em to good advantage. And if he can't, I can. 
Had a phone call one Saturday from BILL RICKE, who is now vwth the Plumb Tool Co., cov­ering a lot of Texas out of Houston, and a loj^al booster he is. Hope we get together in Dallas; his sales meetings prevented it in Kansas City. 
Have little to report from Kansas City, other than the tragic death of FRANK DUGAN, '44, and his wife in an auto acddent. Frank was TOM REAR­DON'S brother-in-law, and his death, with his wife, was a tremendous shock to all of us. 
Now for this business of class news. If you know of something, drop us a line — we need more per­tinent news of the boys and if you don't write it — there isn't any chance of its getting presented to the ALUMNUS. And if you get a postal card, hold it as a solemn duty to answer (only for Lord's sake, don't wait for the card if you feel the urge to set pen to paper). That way we'll have a representa­tive bi-monthly summary of what's happening. 
FRANCIS X, *TTM" BRADLEY, who received his law degree (J.D.) in June and his M.S. (mathe­matics) in August, is at Yale for graduate work in law. With lus wife and three children be is residing in New Haven, li m was a graduate assistant in math at Notre Dame while he was doing his law work. 
JOHN F. GREENE, armorer gunner on the ill-fated "Manuiwa" in World War II, was buried on July 19 in Pundibowl cemetery in Honolulu. Frank M. Greene, his father, traveled from Fort Worth, Texas, to sec his son given full miUtary honors. Carnation lels and other island flowers were laid on the caskets of the war dead. 
ED BEINOR was credited with saving a man from drowning in the Kankakee river in Illinois on July 3. Ed dived into the river and pulled Norman McKenzie of Chicago 15 yards to shore. Ed is now a grocery store manager in Kankakee and has a cabin nearby. 
DICK GARAB has been appointed Studebaker district manager with headquarters in South Bend. He lives at 914 Van Buren St., South Bend. 
CAPT. LARRY SUTTON of the Army Air Force was at Notre Dame on Aug. 26, the happy possessor of a Ph.D. from the Uni\-enity of Geneva in Switz­erland. Larry got his master*s degree at Notre Dame in 1940, then entered the Air Force in 1942, and flew with the Eighth Air Force on 62 missions. Sep­arated from the service in 1946, he reentered it in 1947 and was assigned to do graduate work in politi­cal science at the University of Genc\-a. He spent two years there and is now assigned to Air Force headquarters in Washington, D. C. 
TOM BOSSORT in June received his master's degree in business administration from Indiana Uni­versity. 
1940 

Robert G. Sonford 1103 E. Kensington Blvd., Shorev/ood, Wis. 
ED HUFF is a parole agent at 2361 North Lake Drive, Milwaukee, Wis. He just received his M.S. at Notre Dame. 
DR. HOWARD KLEIN announces the opening of offices for the practice of internal medicine and cardiology at 1317 David Whitney Building, Detroit, 26, Mich. 
Judge MARIO PIERONI, Muncie, Ind., received the monthly citation awarded by the National Soci­ety for Crippled Children for achie\-ement in spite of handicaps. 
At commencement exercises on July 21 at the Uni«rsity of Minnesota, DR. STANLEY HUFF was awarded a master of science degree in dermatology and syphilology. 
SISTER M. MAGLOIRE KILORAN, O.S.B., 
M.S .*40, is the new principal of Cathedral High School in St. Cloud, Minn. 
VINCE GIESLER has been made manager of the Old Town Club, 1300 S. Newberry Ave., Chicago. Vince has been associated with bo>3' work since 1938 and in 1945 became assodated with the Chicago Bo>-s Club of which the Old Town Club is a unit. 
1941 

John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlington Rd., Pittsburgh* Pa. 
Secretary JOHN PATTERSON of the Pittsburgh Press writes: 
"I have promised this before—but shall do so again with firm purpose. I'm going to dig up some news for that 1941 column! 
"You will understand why the complete lack of news for the past few months (though you may say 'what about before that*} when I tell you that I have made no less than six out-of-town trips for the paper in that time. And when one returns from those junkets there's alwaj-s an extra pile of work to tackle. 
"Anyway, I shall do better." 
MATTHEW BYRNES reports a change of address from Indianapolis to Box 371, Fowler, Ind. 
TOM REIS is an advertising salesman for Collier's magazine and lives at 7229 Adams Street, Forest Park, HI. Tom is the proud father of Thomas K., Jr., born July 26, who b the second child in the family. 
BOB SCHRAMM got his degree of master of busi­ness administration at Indiana University in June. 
JACK JOYCE, a polio patient at Warm Springs, Ga., for months, is now at home in South Carolina and working part time. He is feeling reasonably fit and gets around with the aid of crutches and a brace. 
1942 

William E. Sconlon. I'ullxrcn Trust & Soring Bank, 400 E. 111th St, Chicago 28, U. 
JOHN BURGESS, M.S. '42, has been appointed assistant professor of ph>3ics at St. Lawrence Uni\-er­sity in Canton, N. Y. 
TOM HOYER, who was at Gilmour Academy, near Cleveland, has a new teaching and coaching position at Central High School in South Bend. Tom, his wife and two children now reside at 1649 £. Bowman St. 
BILL FALLON is a lieutenant commander with the U. S. Navy Supply Corps in Washington, D. C. STAN LITIZZETTE and DON McGINLEY are both located in Washington, D. C , where they are studying law. BOB FLYNN is a practicing dentist there. JIM O'LAUGHLIN is a captain in the Ma­rines with the judge advocate general in Washington. 
JIM DOYLE AND JOHN KEENAN announce 
Smiles were the keynote at the '39 reunion party in the La Salle HoteL Seated bom the left ore: lohn Gallagher, Frcoik Fronsioli, lohn DuHy. Charlie Hayes. Bemie Feeney and Tom Armel. Standing: Ted Frericks. Walter Gerend, Bill Long, Mark Ifitchell and Max Bumell. 
their association for the general practice of account­ing under the firm name of Do^le and Keenan, Cer­tified Public Accountants. They are located at 824 Davenport Bank BIdg., Davenport, la. 
RABBI ALBERT FLOTKIN has been appointed rabbi of Temple Emanu-El in Sptduuie, Wash. For the past year be had been rabbi of Temple Dc-Hirsh in Seattle, Wash. 
1943 

lohn L Wiggina, 2108 W. Fullerion ATe„ Chicago 47. ID. 
From JACK WIGGINS: 
Both ED HANRAHAN and JACK TALLETT supplied me with infonnation that FATHER BOB PELTON had recently celebrated hii First Ma s in Evanston, lU. Father Felton is a member of the Congregation. Tallett also teUs me that FETE MORTTZ is now engaged. 
JACK BARRY, attomer with Pttpenhusen, Johns­ton, Thompson & Raymond, told of BOB WALSH, who lecentty made a trip to Chicago in the intcxests of St. Benedict's College in Atchison, Kans. Bob is director of athletics, and has as his assistant AL "WHITEY" LEE, '41. St. Benedict's was the scene of many a struggle with the old Notre Dame **B" teams. ED KOFSHEVER was the hero of the last game of the series in 1941. 
Elsewhere in sports, LOU RYMKUS is gunning for a repeat AU-Confeience lierth of the AB-Anierica Pro Football League team. Lou is a tackle on Paul Brown's Cleveland Browns. In the rival circuit, BOB DOVE has reported to the Chicago Cardinals, and FRED "THE DIPPER" EVANS to the Chi­c^ o Bears. 
Ran into BILL KEYES, '41, on the main stem in Columbus, O., and he says that GEORGE HAYES has remained in the Navy and is stationed in his hometown of Cleveland. Abo, that CHUCK KANE was working for the Ford Motor Company in Cleveland. 
HOWARD MARLOW, recendy elevated from staff assistant to Works Auditor at Wisconsn Steel Wocks, says that another Notre Itamer,-JOHN TREACY, '42, had been given a leave of absence ^ m the Works to tour Austria on a government mission. John is an accountant, on an advisory committee checking and suggesting rehabilitation methods for the Austrian steel industry. BOB«'KING is selling steel and rubber industrial matting. ED BOURKE was. married last 'Easter season and is now in the East pursuing his aeronautical engineering. 
LEE RAYMOND is with the David A. Noyes Company, Chicago broken. BILL RILEY is selling lithography for the Riley laming Company, Chicago. 
SAM McQUAID was married in Duluth, Minn., to Anna Rose Faith on July 5. Congratulations, Sam! And congratulations to the JERRY GAINERS on their announcement of the birth of Mary Eliza­beth on July 13. 
Quite a number of the class will be making the trip to South Bend this fall to see the home games, so we would like to suggest that after the game we all meet outside Gate 14. We'll be on hand with pad and pencil to take notes of the whereabouts and doings of the Class of '43. ^ 
DON T FORGET! MEET AT GATE 14 AFTER THE HOME FOOTBALL GAMES! 
TOM COONEY a with the FBI in Los Angeles. His home address is 825 Grevelia, South I^sadena. REX ELLIS and he see each other occasionally. 
JACK BENNETT is practising medicine with his father in Burlington, Wis., and plans to begin a residency in radiology in Philadelphia next July. His brother, JIM, cx-47, is now interning at Milwau­kee County Hosintal. 
RAY QUINN is working for General Motors in Dayton, O., in the Labor Relations Department. He recently passed his Ohio Bar exam. 
HARRY WRIGHT has begun his first year at the University of Portland as head coach after three years as head coach at Aquinas Institute in Roches­ter, N. Y. NEIL GREEN, who %>a5 with Harry at 
Aquinas, joined his coaching staff at Portland. FLOYD SIMMONS, '48, is still another assistant coach from Notre Dame. 
BILL TRACY is back in New York working with the FBI. His home address is 3062 Decatur .•\ve., Bronx, 67. His brother JOE is connected with the law firm of Hogan and Kelleher in New York. 
1944 
WxUiam F, Talbot 300 Mcrin St.. While Plains, N. Y. 
From BILL TALBOT: 
On the train back to New York following the Reunion, JOHN' KILBRIDE was thinking about the gaiet>* and camaraderie of the week-end, when the question entered his mind: if reunions are such exciting affairs, why wait another five years for the next one? Then John went a step further and sug­gested that we might get together over the week­end of the North Carolina game in New York (Nov. 11-13). 
Pursuing this idea, we sent identical letters to all the members of the class of '44, living in the metropolitan area, to sound them out. It was sug­gested that we hold a post-game cocktail party at some reputable club or cafe fiom 5 to 8 p. m.; icasoning that, since the three-hour period between the end of the game and dinner seems to be alwa>-s spent waring pennants and drinking in some over­crowded bar an>-way, it might be a sensible sug­gestion for the men of *44 to get together and do their celebrating in the same place. 
Despite the fact that our letter caught everyone in the midst of \-acation time, there were nine re­sponses out of 38, and all of them favorable. TED TOOLE was the first to answer with his endorse­ment. He added an interesting post script, sa>-ing that he and his brother, JOHN, '46, have started an industrial distributorship and are working night and day to make it click. JI.M CROUXEY also came through with an answer. Jim is presently working as a freight agent for the Moore-^lcCor­mack Lines, w-ith a shingle at 5 Broadway, N.Y.C. BILL ROGERS was also enthusiastic, and came through with several fine suggestions. Ditto JIM FINNERAN and MIKE ^LVLLOY. The latter -added: "BOB CARPENTER and his wife are coming down from Fall River and I'll drag them along." 
BILL SCHROEDER and PHIL HOLZBERGER were delighted with the idea, though there is little chance for either to attend. Bill has moved to ^liami, Fla.; while Phil, after haxing spent three months at Fort Bragg, N. C , is now* a captain in the Medical Corps at Fitzsimons G. H., Denver, Colo. You can catch him at this address until April, when he leaves the Army and joins the staff of the .American Hospital in Paris, France. ''BL.ACK JOHN" MURPHY also hoped the affair would be a success. He and .Aggie have moved to 127-07 Rock­away Blvd., So. Ozone Park 20, X. Y., but will probably be liring in W'antagh, L. I., when Novem­ber rolls around. 
So there the matter rests. The question now is whether or not those out-of-towners who are making the game trip would care to attend such an affair. Those interested, including those in the metropolitan area, should let me know immediately so that proper arrangements can be made. They will be kept posted on the e\-cnt by mail. 
Those of the class of *44 who have tried but who have not been able to secure theater tickets, or night club or hotel resen.-ations may, if the need is urgent, send their requests to this address. Here they will be screened and passed on for action to a fraternal committee headed by JIM CROUXEY and BH-L ROGERS. It is hoped that no one will besiege us with reckless requests, for the committee was designed to lend a hand only to those who desperately need assistance, and possibly to ser\c as a model for other groups in other football towns (Dallas, Baltimore, etc.) Alwa>-s list several alter­nate choices, and please do not ask for tickets to "South Pacific." It is sold out through March. 
Still with a thought to reunions. ORLANDO BONICELLT announces that he and his wife will make the trip down to South Bend for the Southern California game, and that he will keep his eyes peeled for any of the old gang. 
FRANCIS XnCHAEL ("MIKE") CASEY, when last heard from, was at Chapel Hill on a Rockefeller Fellowship as a jack-of-all-trades in the drama de­partment. Mike has written two fine plays which have just been published with praise by Samuel French Inc., N. Y. They are titled "John Shana­han. Me Boy" and *'Dcarie, Yc'rc a Dreamer." They are 35 cents a copy and may be secured through the class secretary. 
ED MEAGHER, another literarj* fellow, has for some time been with the a\-ant-garde Catholic maga­zine, ^'Commonweal" as assistant editor. 7*hat add­ress is 386 Fourth Ave., N. Y. Ed recently had a pleasant reunion with PAUL CARR when the latter came to the big cit>' to consult an advertbing firm. 
JACK WOELFLE is another A.B. fellow interested in advertising. Jack has been trying to crash the 
Andy Wilson, '39, of Detroit is proud to present his "three young scamps." From the left: Jimmy, Michael and Johnny. 
agencies as a copywriter since the war ended. He was told to go out and get sales experience. Jack did. He broke all existing records as an insurance salesman, and then set new highs as a hotel supplies salesman. But still no cop>-writer job. He has since moved to Lcvittown, N. Y. where his luck may change. 
JIMMIE EVERT, '45, who beat Wayne Sabin in the second round of the World Professional Tennis Tournament, went on to lose to Bobby Riggs, the eventual champion. The first set of that match was a 12-10 heartbreaker. Jimmic was pro at the Sheno­rock Shore Club, on Long Island Sound, Rye, N. Y., during most of the summer. He is now at the Fort Lauderdale (Fla.) Tennis Club and at the Pine-crest School of the same city. 
There was a slight mistake in this column's an­nouncement, in the last issue, that JIM O'DEA had been elected to Congress. Wc sent him a special deliven* letter which was returned with all sorts of notations. Actually, it was the Massachusetts House to which Jim w*as elected. You can reach him there until 1950, then you might tr>' Washington again. 
At the meeting of the New York club in late June, FRANK LEAHY exhibited a movie of campus life and gave a spirited and frankly exciting speech on the coming season. Listening in were LARRY SCHATZLEIN, GEORGE SULLIVAN, "BLACK JOHN" MURPHY, and BOB McCOY, among others. 
To clear up a few odds and ends still hanging over from the reunion, it ought to be reported that JIM CUNNINGH.AM was shy $106.30 on expenses when the accounting was made. A feiv more appeals reduced this amount, but not entirely. In case you forgot to div-v-y UD at the time, you can still reach Jim at 325 Lincoln Way West, South Bend. 
A slight indiscretion on the part of the secretary resulted in the omission of the names and antics of JOHN KILBRIDE, JERRY COLEMAN, TOM FEPJLARL and JACK KELLEY from the reunion report. May it now be added that they were present and took a hale and hearty part in the proceedings. 
.And now it ran be told. This colunm was, for five years, written bv a ver>* generous and cordial guy named JOHN LYNCH. He was so reticent about his own achievements and so submcrt;cd his personality when he comt>osed his column, that too few had any notion of the accomplishments he was quietly making in his own pri\-ate life. It was not long after the end of the war that John descended on New York and out-smarted the smoothies by landing a prize job as a publicity director for a popu­lar Broadu-ay musical. He now holds a fellowship at Stanford University. Between periods there, John has married and has been able to achie\x great critical sucx«ss with his writing. His story, "The Burden," was first published in the "Atlandc Month­ly," and subsequently reprinted in both of Amer­ica's prize short story collections, "The Best Amer­ican Short Stories of 1948," and "The O. Henry Memorial Award Prize Stories of 1947." In the winter issue of "The Pacific Spectator," this year, his short stor>- "The Surgeon" appeared. And now you can look for another one called "The Gentle­man's Visit," which will appear in "The Catholic World" in the October or November issue. He is at present deep at work on a new novel and, if space permits, we would like to quote his remarks on the progress: 
"Wrote a lO-page chapter to begin, wrote two later chapters, threw away the first chapter, wTOle a new first chapter, salvaged part of the thrown-away one and made a prologue of it, wrote a third chap­ter, threw away the prologue and wrote new pro­logue. Now have a l-page prologue; scene-setting first chapter; 8 pages; 2nd chapter, 3 pages; 3rd chapter, 7 pages; 4th chapter, 3 pages; later chapter, 8 pages; much later chapter, 12 pages. And a whole lot of notes, dialogue, partial scenes, links, endings, beginnings, transitions, etc., to work from. The title is, simply, 'The Nfountain.' " Keep your eye on this one! 
PRESS-TIME BULLETIN 
I just discovered that the local Notre Dame Club is sponsoring a Notre Dame party in the New York Athletic Club, 7th Ave. and 59th St., following the game. The obrious thing for us to do, therefore, is to celebrate the victory (it sa>-s here) with our fellow alumni. The '44 gang can of course have a corner by themselves. So I'll be seeing you right after the game on the ninth floor of the N.Y.A.C. A buck admission; spend what you want. Remember, too, the big Notre Dame party at the Biltmore Hotel on Friday night. Let me know that you'll be around for the weekend. 
ED DRINKARD, who received an electrical engi­neering degree this summer, is now employed by the Studebaker Corp. in South Bend in the purchasing department. His address is 1224 E. Bronson Street, South Bend. 
The body of GALAND V. FUNK, JR., Munrie, Ind., was returned for reburial on June 21. He lost his life in the Battle of the Bulge on De c 24, 1944. 
JOE LANIGAN, who was connected with the printing firm of BERLINER and Lanigan in Cali­fornia and was later a graduate student in philosophy at Notre Dame, has joined the Carthusians in Spain and will henceforth live the hermit life of his order. 
PAUL O'CONTCELL recently received the degree of doctor of philosophy in biochemistry from the University of Rochester. Before leaving Rochester, Paul had a \isit with JIM DOUGHERTY, '46, who is interning at Rochester General Hospital. Paul is now doiog research at the University of Pittsburgh. He hears occasionally from DR. PHIL CLARKE who has left the Na\*y and is now doing residency in a San Francisco hospital. JOHN KUHN is work­ing in Chicago, married and has one son as of last 
faU. 
1945 
James W. Schaeffer, 7516 N. Hoyne, Chicago, lU. 
From JIM SCHAEFFER: 
1950 wiU be the five-year reunion of the class of 1945. It's not too early to st?rt making plans for our participation. Me thinks that suggestions from all members of the class are in order to determine what special activities are desired, and who among us is "willing" to v%-ork on an arrangement com­mittee. Main objective of our plans might very well be to map out a program to encourage as many of us as possible to attend the reunion next >*ear. 
Let's have your suggestions now. 
The mail this month brings announcement of the marriage of DR. OWEN DOYLE to Miss Cynthia Eusterman of Rochester, Minn., on June 25 at Rochester. And a son with the good Irish name of Kevin Dcdan, was born to Mr. and Mrs. David .A. 

Walsh on May 13. The Walshes reside at 7411 Pijiey Branch Road, Takoma Park, Md. Last item in the rather sparse mail bag was an announcement of the ordination to the priesthood of 
D. FARLEY CURTIN, C.S.C., at Notre Dame on June 8. Father Curtin offered his first solemn Mass at St. Adrian*s Church tn Chicago. 
DICK AMES received the degree of Master of Arts from the University of Minnesota on Aug. 25. A teacher of English at Notre Dame for the past couple of years, Dick will this year continue his graduate work at the University of PcnnsyK-ania. 
BERNIE GOTTA is regional group manager for the Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. in Chicago with offices at 135 S. La Salle St., He recently moved from Texas. 
BOB RIORDAN, former vice-consul to Angola, Africa, has joined the faculty at Notre Dame, where he will ser\'c as an instructor in marketing. Bob ser\ed as vice-consul in Angola, Africa, from 1946 to 1948, and later as vice-consul in New Zealand. 
ROCCO GERMANO, widely known as a student violinist in his Notre Dame da>^, is now a member of the Chicago S>-mphony Orchestra. 
1946 
John K. Stewart. Nolan Motor Co., Golden City. Kans. 

From JACK STEWART: 
After sending out about 20 lettets on approximately the fifth of this month (August) I am blessed with the receipt of four replies. Here's the report: 
FRANK RUGGIERO, former bouncing fullback, has been director of Athletics at St. Marj-'s High School in Rutherford, N. J., for the past three yean. Married in his senior year at Notre Dame, Frank is now head coach (and possibly water-boy) for bouncing Lenny, his two-and-a-half year old son. "He's a big fella, and a future Notre Damer." Frank *is entering the Orange School S>3tem this September as a teacher and football coach. Ex-roommate, BOB FINNEGAN can write to him at 148 Main Street, West Orange, N. J. Finnegan was last heard from as being a three-sport coach in Poolesville, Md. 
VINCE MELI, was caught in Cupid's net before finishing Law School at Michigan. After a Miami honcj-moon, he and his wife returned to Detroit where Vincc is now selling F ds. He hopes to set up his own Olds agenc>- before he's "too old." Hope he gets back in the GM line. Vince's address is 1161 Berkshire, Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
JACK TENGE writes from St. Louis that he has the nominal title of advertising manager in his father's company. I hope it's not writing com­mercial jingles. If he does, he goes off the list. Jack just returned from a Canadian \-acaiion. His address is 722 So. Meramec Dr., Clayton 5, Mo. 
CHRIS COCHRANE serves notice that he will lake up housekeeping on the 17th of September. The bride-to-be is not known to me. One of his ushers will be PAUL RAGAN {'46). Chris is with a com­pany in Toledo as a sales correspondent, and in his letter to me tried to sell me on his product. 
MIKE MACK, Viola. 111., received the degree of Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the Unirti^ity of Iowa on Aug. 10. 
FRANK DANCEWICZ has been appointed back­field coach at Lafayette College in Easton. Pa. 
1947 
Joseph D. U^na. 219 S. Scott St., South Bend, Ind. 

From J. D. USINA: In mid-August I attended BOB SNEE'S wedding reception at the Georgian Hotel in E\*anston, Illinois. There were quiie a few familiar faces. Among those present were HARRY GILLIGAN JR., DAVE CHAMPION, ED HANDLAN, and JIM Mc COURT, all with their wives. JOHN CARON and ED BALL were also in attendance, plus other Notre Dame alumni whom I could not contact. 
Ed Handlan reports that he is associated with the Gordon-Marshall Advertising Agency in St. Louis and is really sold on his work. Dave Champion said that he will be living in Cleveland in about thirty daj-s or so after living in South Chicago for about two years. 
JOHN TAPPE, now residing in Long Beacn, Calif., recently completed two weeks training at Fort Lewis, \Vash., with the Reserve Officer Corps. 
DR, JOHN McCORMICK received hU M.D. from the University of Illinois on June 17. 
JACK ZILLY signed his pro football contract with the Los Angeles Rams and FRANK SZYMAN­5KI is with the Philadelphia Eagles. 
JACK MAYO suffered a broken ankle while pla>-ing with the Phillies and was sent home for the later part of the season. 
1948 

Herman A. Zitt Foundation Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
From HERMAN ZITT: 
Things have been a little quiet around the campus this summer with the exception of the June and August graduations, the Reunion, and the Irene Dunne presentation. Nevertheless, I did manage to sec or hear from some of the old gang between two-weeks Nav>- duty in Boston and a trip to St. Louis (all with the family). 
BILL RUSSELL, SAM SMITH and CHARLES TULLY passed through after receiving their Master^s from Pitt. JACK ROUSSEAU was down from Detroit still looking as sharp as ever. JOE DUES spent several evenings at the house—^Joe's businesses in Dayton and Minster, plus his other sidelines, keep him hopping and thriving. Joe now has two sons. He also informed me that^ TOM DUFFIELD was to be married in Detroit on Aug. 20. Tom is attend­ing Law School at the U. of Detroit. JOHN DVOR­SCHEK, wife and two children are li\-ing in Chi­cago. 
BOB MERZ and familv are living in Tacoma. lOHN MAJOR is still living in Decatur, III. The BOB LYONS', parents of a son on June 7, are living in Chicago. ED BAILEY is working as a metal­lurgist at the Naval Research Laboratory in Wash­ington. They are exoecting the stork again in August. The PxVUL RIG.ALIS sre still battling the housing problem in Los Angeles, havinu moved again (for the third time). D.\VE SLATTERY is covering sports for the "News" in Washington. D. C. BEN SMITH is working in Milwaukee, while his family is living at home. LARRY KELLY and family are now-living in Stoughton. Mass. 
The CRADDOCKS sn-nt a weekend with the WEIBELS in Kenosha. Don Weibel is working for Firestone and according to reports is doing plenty of night work. 
Returns on the "48 Class Fund for the Scnence Building arc siill coming in but there are still a few to be heard from before Dec. 31. More about that in the next issue. 
JOHN DiGANN has opened a law office in the Odd Fellows building in South Bend. He, his wife and daughter reside at 1914 S. Catalpa Street. 
Dr. JOE G.ARBARINI u-as awarded a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Tennessee on Mar. 25. DR. JOHN SULLIVAN of Fulton, N. Y.. received his M.D. from Syracuse University on June 
6. He is interning at Bishop De Goesbriand Hospi­tal, Burlington, Vt. 
JOE DEMUR O is teaching at St. Edward's Uni­versity, Austin. Texas. DAVE ARDITO is instruct­ing in the Department of Architecture at Texas A & M College, College Station, Texas. 
JOE DILLON is cochairman for the industry division of the 1950 Community Chest campaign in South Bend. 
FRANK KAYSER has been appointed to the re­search staff of Massachusetts Institute of Technology under a fellowship awarded by Vanadium Alloys Steel Corp. for the study and research in tool steel. 
CORWIN CLATT signed his 1949 contract with the Chicago Cardinals. ZIG CZAROBSKI is again with the Chicago Hornets. WILLIAM "BUCKY" O'CONNOR filed suit against the Chicago Tribune Charities, Inc., and Sports Editor ARCH WARD for ^,000, askii^ duna^s for injuries suffered while he played with the 1M8 eoOttge AB^tan. 
HAROLD WISMANN received in June his mas­ter of business administration degree from lotfiana University. 
1949 

Reports have MIKE CONLEY teaching and coaching at Mount Sacied Heart High xbod in San Antonio, Texas. BOB McDAVID was nanwd gradiute assistant in health and physical educatioo at the Univeuity of Mississippi. JOHN McMAHON was appointed head basketball and track coach at Mt. St. Mary's college in Enunitsbulg, Md- He will also help with baseball and handle football backSeld candidates. 
JACK FALLON began his new duties as assistant coach at Wayne University in Detroit. JIM MAR­CHELEWICZ is the first alumnus of Central Cath­olic high school in South Bend to become the school's head coach. JIM LEARY is back as head coach at South Bend Catholic High. TERRY BRENNAN, who chose a coachii^ career rather than professional football, is head coach at Mt. Carmel high school in Chicago. Teny is still consid­ering law. 
BOB KANE has joined the staff at the Stamford Research Laboratories of the American Cyanamid Company in Stamford, Conn. 
CHARLES HANEY is with Voigt's (refrigerators) in Mishawaka, Ind. 
JIM BUTZ is with the public relations staff of Wilson's Sporting Goods in Chicago and is the proud father of a daughter, Roberta. 
GORMAN BROCK writes from Europe while taking an eight-week tour: "Paris is wonderful — though I like Rome better. While there I had an audience with the Pope." TOM DINGES has also spent the summer touring Etuvpe before settling down to a job. 
The class will be saddened by news of the death of JOHN L. O'BRIEN, widely known on the campus as the coaches' movie man. (See "Deaths," this issue.) 
Mission Scnjples 

Every alumnus is the recipient of many appeals from Catholic missions, some of them conducted by the familiar C. S. C. 
The Alumni Office from time to time gets expressions of concern that seem to stem from a conscience especially sensitive to these latter approaches. 
Naturally, our feeling is that all of these causes are deserving. But all of us have to decide in any given year what deserving causes vre can support and vthat deserving causes we must defer. 
The experience of one of our former alumni directors may be helpful. Generous in everything, he told a mission priest friend one day that he was constantly being hurt because after giving $25 and $50 to a reasonable number of these appeals, he felt obligated to turn down others. The priest expressed surprise— 
"The missions, to a large extent, live on the many one-dollar gifts. You are probably a major benefactor if you have been sending so much. Why don't you send the dollar most of them request, and multiply the number you support?" 
This is one answer. Certainly no alumnus wants us to blackball completely the men who are fighting on the many fronts of religion and education. There are many prayers for you if you can give. There is no resentment if you can't. 
Mr. Edward J- tracsy Jr. University Club State College, Pa. 
DIRECTORY of Clubs ana Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—P;io<->i.>—Thomas E. O'.Mallcy, '39, 320 
W. Virsima. Tucson—Ted \V. Witz, '29, Box 628. 

ARKANSAS—For/ 5mi/A—Rajmond A. Marrc, ex­37, 229 Merchants Nat'I. Bank Bldg. 
CALIFORNIA—LoJ Angeles—Zuscnc C. Calhoun, '33, 704 S. Spring St., Room 212. JVorlAcrn-Donald L. Allen, '37, Federal Bldg., Civic Conference, San Frandsco. 
San Ditgo—Vf. Albert Steu-art, '35, 728 San Diego Tr. & Sa\-ings Bank Bldg. 
COLORADO—D<-n:<T—James F. Hanlon, '18, 1652 Glencoe St. 
CONNECTICUT—Conii«/iVa/ roWo—William J. Rcid, '26, 7 May St., Hartford. Naugatuck Valley—D. Frank Mumane, '32, Siunmit Rd., Prospect. 
Southweslern—TnnV S. McGee, '33, 51 Savoy St., Bridgeport 6. 
DELAWARE—Arthur C. Baum, '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—It'iuAinj/on-J. R. "Pat" Gorman, '40, 1740 K St., NW. 
FLORIDA—Greater Afiomi—Fred A. Jones, Jr., '47, 
25 S.W. I8th Rd., Miami. Fort Lauderdale—fred J. Stewart, '12, Port £\-erg1ades Station. North Florida—John F. Lanahan, '43, P.O. Box 1498, Jacksonville. 
GEORGIA—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rum-son Rd., Atlanta. 
IDAHO—Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—CHcoeo—John L. Buckley, '38, 929 N. Euclid. Oak Park. Fox Kafl«)^Wilh"am B. ChaM^go, '31, 516 Binder St., Aurora. yofoj—Arthur Smith, Jr., '48, RD No. 2. Pfona-Eugene R. Slerin, '44, 609 W. Rich-woods BK'd. 
Rock River Valley—VmX J. Fr)', '27. 101 First St., Dixon. Springfield—Stephen G. Graliker, '42, 1537 
W. Macon St., Decatur. 

INDIANA—Cnlumtl Djjln'cl—James J. Glenn, '35, 1337 n9th St., Whiting. 
Eastern Indiana—WdSam B. Cronin, ex-3I, 521 
E. Jefferson, Hartford City. Fort (fajne-Edwin J. Wesner, '25, 4607 Fair­field. Indianapolis—^Nicholas J. Connor, Jr., '36, 38 Shelhy St. Michigan City—Francis G. Fcdder, '31, E. Cool­spnng Ave. St. Joseph Valley—Frands M. Messick, '30, 1333 E. Wayne St., South Bend. Tri-State (Ky., Ind. and III.)—Robert L. Hen­neberser, '35, 126 E. 4th St., Mt. Carmel, lU. Wabash Valley—Vr. Kenneth F. Laws, '36, 501-5 Lafayette Life Bldg., Lafayette. 
lOVfA—Des Moines—Robert J. Tiernan, '40, 650 
39ui St. Dubuque—houis F. Fautsch, '35, 1043 S. Grand-view. 
Quad-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, East Moline)—John R. Coryn, '22, 2545 13th St., Moline. 
KANSAS—Eojiern—Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '25, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. 
KENTUCKY—James C. Carrico, '35, 2905 S. Foutrh St., Louisville. 
LOUISIANA—Jtfeio Or/eanj—Jules K. de hi Vergne, '38, 5811 Hunt. MARYLAND—Ba/«iiBore—Franklyn C. Hochreitcr, '35, 1327 Peutwood Rd. 
MASSACHUSETTS—Bojton— John V. Moran, '30, Costello, Moran & Mahan, 31 State St. 
Pioneer Valley—Henry M. Padden, '24, 342 Sargeant St., Holyoke. 
MICHIGAN—BcmVn Counl>—William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph A\-e., Niles. Blue Water Z)ii/nV<—William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O.
 Box 295, Port Huron. Central—TtT. Edgar J. Hennes. '18, 828. N. Logan St., Lansing. D£/roi(—Thomas J. Moran, '35, 1329 Bucking­ham Rd., Grosse Pointe 30. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Frederick 

C.
 Cast, '37, 322 -Auburn A\e., S.E. 


Hiaualhaland-r^ul Kreuz, '33, 1215 Michigan Ave., Menominee, Mich. 
Iron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan, e.x-45, 
635 McLeod A\-e., Ironwood, Monroe-Thomas E. Griffin. '33. 205 E. Third St. Saginaw Valley—Herbert R. Schnettler, cx-25, 
1827 Hanchett St., Saginaw. 
MBWESOTA—Tran CiliM-Paul H. Castner, '23, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., St. Paul 4. Dululh-Superior—Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 
MISSOURI—Konmj Ci(>'—(Mo. and Kans.)—Rob­ert Pendeigast, '35; 405 W. 59th St. Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louis—John J. Griffin, Jr., '39, 7236 North-moor Dr., University City 5. 
MONTANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
NEBRASKA—Eugene F. Mlbourn, e.x-39, 4431 Cass St., Omaha. 
NEW JERSEY—Thomas B. Hogan, '38, 27 St. LawTence Ave., Maplewood. 
Cenlrof-Michael J. Balog, '34,' 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. 
NEW YORK—Bii#a;o—Daniel C. Sheedy '39, 390 
Roycroft Blvd., Snyder. Capital District—Joseph W. Conlon, '35, 832 New Scotland Ave., Albany. Cen/rol—Daniel A. Kelley, '41, 706 Stinard St., Syracuse 4. 
Mohawk Valley—F. Donald Fullem, '30, 203 
Roosevelt Dr., Uuca. New York Ci/j'—Jordan Hargrove, '33, 247 Park Ave., Room 1600.' 
Northern—Rev. Donald S. Gallagher, '24, St. Bernard's Rectory, Lyon Mountain. RocA«(cr—John M. Hedges, Jr., e.\-43, 141 Sdo St. 
Schenec'ady—George G. Thompson, '42, 1162 Van Antwerp Rd. 
Tnple Cities—Dr. J. Wordtn Kane, '26, 55 Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—^Iron-Paul A. Bertsch, '29, 159 Oakdale Ave. 
Con/on—William H. Belden, '36, 305 22nd St., N.W. 
Cinrfnna/i—John C. Cottingham, '38, Penn Mu­tual Life Insurance Co., 1200 Union Trust Bldg. Cleveland—Robert N. Stack, '41, 2714 Brook­dale Ave., Parma. 
Columbus—Dr. Thomas M. Hughes, '38, 481 
E. Town St. 
i3o>/on—Thomas C. Femeding, '40, 530 E. Had­ley Ave., Apt. I. 
ffamiflon—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, Munici­pal Court. 
OAio Valley—Vmiasn J. Yaegcr, '42, 156 S. Park St., WheeUng, W. Va. Sandusky—Mtred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, S. Co­lumbus Ave To/eifo—John R. Malone, '42, 4803 Summit St. Youngstown—Clarence T. Sheehan, *40, "The Vindicator." 
OKLAHOMA—rafta-William B. Padon, '42, 9 Woodland Dr., Box 1589. 
Oklahoma Ci'<y—Haskell Askew, '31, 624 Trades­men National Bank Bldg. 
OREGON—Peter F. Sandrock, '39, 6334 NE Grand Ave., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA—£u«ern—Leo R. Mclntyxe, '28, 300* Turner St., AUcnlown. 
£n'e—Joseph C. Barbery '36, 703 Ariel Bldg. 
Harrisburg—Edward R. Eckenrode, Jr., '44, 2929 North 2nd Ave. 
Monongahela Valley—George C. Martinet, '34, 
R.D. No. 1, Charleroi. 
Philadelphia—Ambroic F. Dudley, Jr., '43, 1123 
N. 63rd St. 
Pittsburgh—Eugene J. Coyne, '33, Coyne Ave., Allison Park. 
Scran/on—XGchael B. Comerford, '43, 1208 Richmont St. 
Wilkes-Barre—Dr. Maurice J. Regan, '31, 115 
S. Franklin St. 
(Vitliamlpori—Frank C. Hayes, '27, 820 Erie Ave., Renovo. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '39, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 
TENNESSEE—J/rmpAu—Phil M. Canale, Jr., '40, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg. 
TEXAS—DaHas—Edmond R. Haggar, '38, 6113 Lcm­
mon Ave. Hoiuron—Charles S. Atchison, ex-30, 2320 Blue­bonnet. 
Sam ifiitonio—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stan­ford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. GaUivan, '37, 1017 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3308 Sem­inary Ave., Richmond 22. 
WASHINGTON—irw/ern-John P. English, '33, J. 
P. English Steel Co., 465 E. 15th St., Tacoma. 
5/ioiaiie—John P. O'Neill, Jr., '29, 218 W. 14th Ave. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Albert H. Kessing, '40, 925 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. 
WISCONSIN—Cr«n Bay—Harold L. Londo, "24, Sup't., Green Bay Water Dept. 
Fox River Valley—William H. Fieweger, '35, 
•497 Riverway, Menasha*. 
LaCroJK—August M. Grams, '28, 217 S. Front St. 
.Mfla>aBi«—William C. Malaney, '41, 4012 N. FarweU. 
South Central—John C. Brennan, '41, 2331 Eton mdgc, Madison. 
FOREIGN CLUBS Bengal. India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. 
Cilia—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man). La Metropolitana (711), Habana. 
Hotroii—Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opi­lu St., Honolulu, T.H. 
JfaiuZo—Anthonr F. Gonzales, '25, (key man). The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bids. 
Paumo—William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 603, Ancon., Canal Zone. 
• PmtTlo Bico—Pmi F. McManus, '34, (key man), B ft M Pniacts Company, Box 269S, San Juan. 

Printed at AVE UARIA PRESS 
Zhe Uotre Dame Alumnus 
ThU magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Damcj Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. 
James £. Armstrong, '23, Editor; William R. Dooley, '26, Vol. 27. NOVEMBER-DECEMBER, 1949 
QenefuU Homtdo. Will Bfxeak at. . . 
Natural Law Institute 
Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo, LL.D., '35, president of the General Assem­bly of the United Nations, will address the third annual Natural Law Institute to be held Dec 9 and 10 in the College of Law at Notre Dame. 
General Romulo will speak on "The Na­tural Law and International Law" at the last session of the two-day Institute. Other speakers on the program include the Hon­orable Richard O'SuUivan, of London, Eng­land, former King's Counsel of Great Bri­tain; Dr. Edward S. Corwin, retired Prince­ton University authority on constitutional problems; and Dr. Stephan Kuttncr, noted canon law expert at the Catholic University of America, Washington, D. C. 
The United Nations president, a native of Manila, P. I., was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by Notre Dame at the same convocation in which the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt received an honorary degree. 
General Romulo was elected this fall on the first ballot as president of the fourth General Assembly of the United Nations meeting at Lake Success, N. Y. His election on the first ballot is a tribute never before paid any United Nations president 
A former Manila newspaper editor. Gen­eral Romulo received the Pulitzer prize for Distinguished Correspondence in 1941. He has authored a number of well-known books, including four since the outbreak of World War IL The latter include "I Saw the Fall of the Philippines," "Mother America," "My Brother Americans" and "See the Philippines Rise." 
The establishment and history of the Na­tural Law Institute will be commemorated by a bronze plaque to be unveiled at this year's Institute. Separate bronze tablets will be placed beneath the plaque to record the program, speakers, topics and sponsor of each of the Institute's annual sessions since its establishment in 1947, when it was spon­sored by the Notre Dame Club of New York. The plaque is being presented to the Institute by Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, O., businessman, who sponsored the 1948 Insti­tute and who also is sponsoring the 1949 sessions. It will be placed in the foyer of the Law Building. 
A Natural Law Library, believed to be the only one of its kind in the world, will also be founded during this year's Institute. It will be known as the Alvin h. Gould Col­lection. 
The Gould Collection will consist of a complete and representative group of books and materials on the Natural Law doctrine, and will be accessible to scholars and stu­dents of the Natural Law. A plaque com­memorating the founding of the library will be placed on the door to the section of the Notre Dame law library where the books will be housed. 
A total of 106 titles of volumes on the Natural Law already have been selected for the collection by a committee composed of speakers on the 1948 Natural Law Institute program. The committee consists of Prof. Maurice Lebel, of Laval University, Quebec; Dr. Ernst Levy, of the University of Wash­ington Law School; Dr. Gordon Hall Ge­rould, of Princeton University; Dr. Hein­rich A. Rommen, of the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn.; and the Hon­orable Robert N. Wilkin, Federal District Judge, Cleveland, O. 
RUNNING IN TWO SECTIONS 

In effect, if not in practice, the November - December issue of the "Alimimis" is running in two sections —^both "different." This is the first section, and it is made up, you will notice, of class news, mostly. 
The second section, if the printer and the post office meet schedules, will greet you before Christmas. It is a special picture booklet published by the University. A copy of it is going to every alumnus, and to a lot of other people. 
The "Alumnus" will of course re­turn to its regular form with the Jan­uary-February issue. 
 Managing Editor 
No. 6 

Additional Faculty Members 
Through an oversight, the names of priests who joined the facidty for the pres­ent schoolyear were omitted from the Sep­tember-October .ALUMNUS. These priests 
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, philoso­phy; Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C, philosophy; Rev. Regis H. Riter, C.S.C, philosophy; Rev. Philip H. Schaerf, C.S.C, English; Rev. William J. Mc\uliffe, C.S.C, liturgy; Rev. Robert S. Pelton, C.S.C, reli­gion; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, reli­gion; Rev. Paul B. Rankin, C.S.C, English; and Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C, accoimt­ing. 
Prof. Edward J. Cronin, '38, now a mem­ber of the English faculty at Notre Dame, taught for six years in the University of Minnesota, as well as for a year in St Thomas Military Academy, St Paul. The ALUMNUS in the September-October issue noted only the latter connection. 
In a class note in the September-October issue, the ALUMNUS said that Rev. Jerome • 
M. Boyle, C.S.C, '35, had received hLs doc­torate in philosophy at the Sorbonnc. Ac­tually, Father Boyle received his doctorate in the Higher Institute of Philosophy in the University of Louvain, Belgium. 
Fendrich Gift Received 
John H. Fendrich, '84, president of H. Fendrich, Inc., Evansvillc, Ind., has pre­sented a gift of $10,725 to the University to cover the cost of the Auxiliary Organic Re­search Laboratory in the proposed new Sci­ence Building at Notre Dame. 
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president, in making the announcement of Mr. Fendrich's gift, said that the new lab­oratory made possible by Mr. Fendrich's generosity will be a memorial to the late Herrmann and Mary Reitz Fendrich, par­ents of the Evansviile business executive. Mr. Fendrich attended Notre Dame from 1880 to 1884 and was personally acquainted with the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C, founder and first president of Notre Dame. 
Another important gift is that of $25,009 from the Damon Rimyon Memorial Ftm(£ for Cancer Research to support the germ-free research being conducted at Notre: Dame in the Laboratories of Bactcriology imder Prof. J. A. Reyniers. 
12th ANNUAL UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME COMMUNION SUNDAY. DECEMBER II 
e alumni 
Engagemenfs 
Miss Betty Thompson and James J. Atlunson, *47. Miss Helen Elise Homchuk and Patrick D. Black­ford, Jr., '49. Miss Kay McMahon and Godfrey F. Buranich, 
'43. Miss Mary Barany and Dudley D. Birder, '50. Miss Rosalind Burgett and William H. Grafe, Jr., 
'44. Miss Freda M. Kuzmic and Mathew J. Grasberger, '49. Miss Gertrude Kazmierzak and Robert E. Kcr­ger, '48. Miss Alice Schater and Graham W. McGowan, '44. Miss Patricia Anne McEntegart and Arthur J. Murphy, cx.45. Miss Ruth Elizabeth Kelly and Bernard A. O'Con­nor, Jr., '44. Miss Betty Lue Shaum and Joseph T. O'Hara, Jr., '49 Miss Yvonne Dc Sonia and Joseph P. OToole, 
Jr., '48. Miss Agnes Arata and Joseph A. Pappalardo, '47. Miss Marjorie Ann Hutchins and Julio D. Petti­
nati, '30. Miss Marion Joyce Seely and Thomas F. Qoin­
lan, '38. Miss Betty Earl and Bruce W. Raff, Jr., '49. Miss Irene Stachura and William E. Scanlan, '42. 
Marriages 
Miss Jacqueline Marie Doyle and James F. Bark, Jr., '48, South Bend, Sept. 17. 
Miss Sally Zygowicz and Theodore J. Buczj-nski, '33. Chicago, Oct. 1. 
Miss Patricia O'Connor and ^ViIIiam H. Chitten­den, '48, Monmouth, 111., Oct. 8. 

Miss DoUoretta Rogers and John R. Cleary, ex­46, White Plains, N. Y., Oct. 8. 
Miss Rosemary Teagarden and John F. Coleman, '44, Oak Harbor, O., May 21. 
Miss Bcnita Anne Guthrie and John M. Consi­dinc, '49, South Bend, Oct. 1. 
Miss Margaret Ddald and Fred H. Couch, ex-52, Michigan City, Ind., Oct. 8. 
Miss Elizabeth Jane Jennings and Orville E. Dunn, Jr., '48, Lead, S. D., Sept. 18. 
Miss Mary Ligouri Ertel and \VilUam J. Dunn, ex-47, Aurora, 111., Sept. 5. 
Miss Evelyn Murray and Francis Fitzgibbon, '45, Iowa City, la., Oct. 8. 
Miss Isabel Margaret Hoffman and Raymond R. FljBB, '43, Detroit, Mich., Oct. 22. 
Miss Irene Catherine Kuzmic and Robert F. Gre­gorits, '49, South Bend, Sept. 17. 
Miiss Jaoiueline Mostacrt and Frank L. Hanei, jr., '48, Sooth Bend, Sept. 17. 

Miss Dorothy Coughlin and Norman A. Hennessy, '49, River Forest. III., Oct. 22. 
Miss Barbara Florence Steinhofer and Elmer F. Horvath, '49, South Bend, Oct. 1. 
Miss Gertrude Lorraine Vodoy and Robert P. Lonergan, '43, Notre Dame, Oct. 22. 
Miss Christina Louise Thau and Charles E. Mc­Guire, '49, Mishawaka, Ind., Oct. 8. 
Miss Dorothy Waldcck and Edmund V. Marshall, '46, Sept. 12. 
Miss Mary Ellen Ncufeld and Patrick H. Martin. '48, Green Bay, Wis., June 25. 
Miss Margaret Anne Clarkson and Daniel D. Meaney, '47, Corpus Christi, Texas, July 2. 
Miss Barbara Jean Freeman and Thomas £. Mills, '42, Bcloit, Wis., Nov. 5. 
Miss Anne Cccilc Barany and James H. Monsercz, ex-49. South Bend, Oct. 29. 
Miss Mary Lou Seibert and Peter F. Moritz, '43, Mansfield, O., Oct. 8. 
Miss Nadinc Bclton and Hairy D. Mo^er, Jr., '48, Baltimore, Md., Aug. 24. 
Miss Kathlyn Ann Hammcs and John C. Mow­bray, '49, Marj-crcst, III., Oct. 15. 
Aliss Nancy McKcnna and John Murrin, IV, '38, Pittsburgh, Pa., Sept. 17. 
Miss Helen Lee Black and Edvturd A. Ostroski, '48, South Bend, Oct. 8. 
Miss Marilyn Brcnnan and Harry C. Reich, '48, Chillicothc, Alo., June 7. 
Miss Ann Trautschold and Frederick J- Sheedy, '48, Waco, Texas, Sept. 5. 
Miss Eleanor Wolfbcrg and Loren I. Smith, '48, South Bend, Oct. 23. 
Afiss Afaryjane Mcllvcimy and £r\'in A. Stefanik, '41, Chicago, Oct. 1. 
Miss Margaret Catherine Cook, daughter of Leo 

L. Cook, '18 and Edward L. Twohey, '49, Notre Dame, Sept. 17. 
Miss Elizabeth Bouldcn and Thomas J. Varga, ct-46. South Bend, Oct. 15. 
Miss Lora May Nimtz and Donald B. AVhite, '49, South Bend, Sept. 17. 
Miss Valeria J. Kulka and Norbert S. Wleklinski, '44, Notre Dame, recently. 
Miss Betty Ann Wcndland and Robert W. Witch­ger, ex-40. Bay City, Mich., Feb. 26. 
Miss Cecelia Speel and John H. Zwicker, '44, Appleton, Wis., July 9. 
Born f o 
Dr. and Mrs. Henry B. Asman, '32, a son, Henry B., Jr., Aug. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. David R. Cartwii^t, '4J, A son, Thomas Joseph, Sept. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Clifford, '38, a daughter, Mary Victoria, Aug. 24. 
Mr. and Mi3. Louis B. Cohen, '49, a son, Alan, Sept. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Constantin, '44, a daugh­ter, Sept. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. John P. Crimmins, ex-43, a daugh­ter, Nov. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Dacey, '49, a daughter, ­Maureen Ann, Aug. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Daly, '38, a daughter, Sharon Elizabeth, Sept. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. James L. Delahanty, '40, a son, Oct. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul V. Delker, '49, a son, Chris­topher Paul, Oct. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas C. Delker, '37, a daughter, Constance Louise, Sept. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gerald P. Doyle, '33, a daughter Katherine Belle, Sept. 26. Clyde E. Broussard, '13, is the proud grandfather. 
Mr. and Iklrs. Robert J. Dunlay, '43, a daughter, Barbara Ann, Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. Elder, '30, a son, Michael George Albert, their sixth child. Sept, 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard P. Elliott, Jr., '48, a son, Oct. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bernard J. Feenej', '39, a daughter, Oct. 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Fisher, '36, a son, Chris­topher John, Sept. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Fiss, '33, twin son and daughter, William and Mary, Aug. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. Sanford S. Friedman, '39, a son. Marc Ho%»ard, Aug. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Gallagher, '35, a daugh­ter, Joan Patricia, Oct. 14. 
Mr. and Airs. Hugh B. Good, '48, a daughter, Ann, Aug. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank V. Grimaldi, '47, a son, Mi­chael Francis, Sept. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raj-mond W. Gudmens, '47, a daughter, Judith Maureen, July 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. James M. Hamilton, '35, a son, Michael Louis, Sept. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard G. Heckman, '42, a son, Phillip Martin, Sept. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. ^Villiam R. Herrick, '39, a daugh­ter, Christine Ann, Sept. 6. 
Mr. and Mrs. William L. Jacobs, Jr., '36, a daughter, Mary-Ellen, Oct. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. John G. Jaeger, '33, a son, John Andrew, Aug. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Jawonki, '45, a son, Nov. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Cecil E. Jordan, '40, a daughter, Sept. 9. John M. Bannon, '12, is the proud grand­father. 
Mr. ind Mrs. Frank B. Kennedy, Jr., '41, a son, Brian Thomas, Sept. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. John C. Killian, Jr., '48, a dangh­' ter Patricia Aime, Sept. 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Klem, Jr., '45, a daughter, Kathryn Marie, Sept. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jolins R. Kcistan, '39, a daughter, Rita Clare, Oct. 26. 
Mr. and Mn. Charles. S. LaCugna, '45, a daugh­ter,' Margaret Mary, Nov. 8. 

Mr. and Mrs. Cliarles R. Le Fevre, *47, a son, Robert Daniel, Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond M. Leiiaert, '49, a daughter, Sept. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence L. Lougfalin, '48, a daugh­ter, Katherinc Mary, Oct. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Lynch, '44, a son, Thomas John, Aug. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Lynch, Jr., '33, a son, Oct. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. John G. Mack, Jr., '45, a daugh­ter, Marjorie Susan, Aug. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Madden, '44, a daugh­ter, Mary Teresa, June 17. Harold F. Madden, ex-16, is the proud grandfather. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Magee, '32, a daughter. Sheila, Oct. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. William P. Mahoney, Jr., '39, a daughter, Mary Alice, Sept. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. James L. Meagher, Jr., '44, a daughter, Virginia, Aug. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Meyer, '43, a daughter, in mid-Scptcmbcr. 
Mr. and Mrs. William B. Middendorf, '43, a son, Michael Richard, their fourth child, Sept. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ferdinand E. Miholich, Jr., '40 a son, Sept. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Otto J. Mileti, Jr., '44, a sun. Otto Joseph, HI, Aug. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond W. Oakes, '35, a son, Mark Christopher, Sept. 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. Eugene L. O'Brien, '35, a daugh­ter, Mary Ellen, their sixth child, Oct. 22. They have five sons. 
Mr. and Mrs. John D. O'Malley, Jr., '43, a son, John Daniel, III, July 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. O'Neill, '40, a son, Brian Francis, Sept. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles V. Owens, Jr., '48, a daughter, Kathleen Elizabeth, Sept. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Patterson, '47, a daugh­ter, Ann Elizabeth, July 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. Anton Pojman, Jr., '49, a son, Andrew Patrick, Sept. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Rud, '46, a daughter, Mary Jo, Aug. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Ruetz, '44, a son, Oct. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. T. Gordon Salmon, '31, a daughter, Kathleen Marie, Oct. 3. 
Mr .and Mrs. Robert G. Sanford, '40, a son, Gerald Lee, Oct. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. George H. Schilling, '48, a daugh­ter, Carol Marie, Aug. 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Sesterhenn, '49, a son, Oct. 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph J. Sherer, '43, a daughter, Susan Mary, Sept. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter C. Steffen, '40, a daughter, Ann Marie, Aug. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. William H. Stryckcr, '43, a son, Oct. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hngfa R. Sullivan, Jr., '48, a son, Hugh Richard, III, July 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Sullivan, Jr., '33, a daugh­ter, Cornelia, their seventh child, Sept. 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard F. Swoyer, '47, a son, Leonard F., Jr., Oct. 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Tiedemann, '41, » daughter, Ann, Oct. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jesse N. Torres, '23, a son, Greg­ory Thomas, Sept. 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert F. Van Huffd. '41, a daugh­ter, Oct. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Hawley E. Van Swrall, '41, a daughter, Mary Ann, Sept. 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. James E. Wade, '33, a daughter, Afaurcen Ann, July 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. James H. Walsh, '41, a daughter, Mary, Aug. 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Werner, '32, a daughter, Margaret Ann, Feb. II. 
Deaths 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, M5, Columbus, O., 
president of the Alumm Association in 1940-41 and 
one of the most widely known and popular of all 
Notre Dame men, died 
of a heart attack in Co­
lumbus on Nov. 9. He 
had also suffered a se­
vere heart attack two 
years before and at that 
time was confined to a 
Columbus hospital. 
Recognized as one of the nation's and No­tre Dame's outstanding football players of all time, "Eich** gained his greatest fame as the Notre Dame fullback in the first Notre Dame-Army game, played at West Point in 1913. There his crushing of 
"Eich" 

the Army line, and the threat of it, made possible the sensational forward passing attack staged by Rockne and Dorais. 
Of "Eich,** Arthur Daley wrote in the "New York Times** on Nov. 16: "And what a fullback he was! He was good enough to be named on Walter Camp*s second All-America team at a time when that patron saint of Yale football rarely bothered to look beyond the Big Three for candi­dates and practically never went digging down in the depths where Notre Dame was then located. So he must have been twice the performer he even was credited with being.** 
A notable weight man on the track team for three years, "Eich" won three track monograms, as well as four football monograms. 
When his own playing days ^vere over "Eich** continued in the football world, not only as an ardent Notre Dame fan, but also, until 1933, as an official in the Western Conference. His business was insurance and he operated his own insurance agency in Columbus for 30 years. 
Engaged in innumerable activities, and with his own splendid family to care for, "Eich** always found time to gi^'c innumerable hours out of his days to the service to Notre Dame. Always a lead­ing figure in his local Notre Dame club, he was its president for many years. One of the deeper joys of his life was the Ohio State-Notre Dame football series played in 1935 and 1936 and no man was happier than he when Notre Dame won both games, and particularly the ever-memorable game ~ of 1935 in Coluinbus. 
"Eich" is sur^'ived by his wife and five sons at 100 N. Stanwood Rd., Bexley, Columbus, O. The youngest son, Rupert (named for the late Rupert Mills, *15, "Eich*s'* Notre Dame roommate and close friend) is at present a sophomore at Notre Dame. The other sons are Raymond J., Thomas A., and Albert J., who also were students at Notre Dame, and Richard E. 
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C., professor of reli­gion at Notre Dame, and a longtime friend of **Eich,** was the official University representative at the funeral in Colmnbus. 
Phnip P. Paschel, of the class of 1889, San Fran­cisco, Calif., died on March 3, 1949, after an illness of two months. Word of his death reached the University only recently. 
A native of Council Bluffs, . la., Mr. Paschel moved to San Francisco in 1900 and in 1910 be­came associatrd writfa the real estate firm of Bald­
win and Howellj oC whidi he bcCTme president In 
1925. He was well known as <»e oC the Bar Area's 
large tract developers and as an c^ert appraiser. 
K s survivors inchide his uster, Mrs. Ht ^ Gal­
lafl^er, as well as a number of nephevrs and nieces. 
Dr. WiOiani J. Jokmoa, of the class ot 1890. a Philadelphia dentist for more than 50 years, <fied on Aag, 3. He was graduated from the BaltimtMre Medical College after attending Notre Dame. Dr. Johnson is survived by hu wife. 
Wimam T. FIyni^ Chicago, student at Notre Dame in the 1890*s, died on Sept. 22. He is sur* vived by a niece and four nephevrs. Mr. Flynn was a well-known realtor and investment broker on the northwest side of Chicago. 
TlMNnas M. Hcaly, Fort Dodge, la., attorney and brother of Rev. Kemdt M. Healy, C.S.C., '15, died suddenly on Sept. 11, victun of a heart condition. Mr. Healy was a student at Notre Dame, in the "preps** and in the University, from 1912 tmtil 1917. In July, 1918, at the time of World War I, he enlisted in the Army. 
A lifelong resident of Fort Dodge, Mr. Healy was admitted to the bar there in 1921 and became as­sociated with ha father in the practice of law. Since his father's death in 1929, he had practiced alone. 
Surviving Mr. Healy in addition to Father Healy are four sisters. 
Jobn F. Gfeaso^ of the class of 1920, Shaker 
Heights, O., died of a heart attack on July 5. 
He is survived by hb wife, two sons, his parents, 
two sisters and five brothers. 
One of the best kncnvn insurance men in the 
Cleveland area, Mr. Gleason was a trustee of the 
Insurance Boazd of Cleveland and a director of 
many corporations. He was a fourth degree mem­
ber of the Knights of Columbus. 
Cyan C. ^lantta, Ph.D., *27, died early in 1945, according to word recently received from the Tule Water Oil Co., Calcutta, India, where he was employed. 
Linus C. Nitmtjtr, *29, Ottumwa, la., died sud­denly on. Aug. 25 following a heart attack in his room in the Mayer Hotel, Peoria, 111. 
Mr. Niemeyer was president of Niemeyer Bros., wholesale distrSiutors of p^ier products and manu­facturers of p^>er boxes. Surviving him are his wife, two sons and a daughter and his mother. 
Carl L. Sabo, *39, Los Angdes, died there cm Sept. 12 after a short Olness following an appen­dectomy. Survi^^g him are his parents, two sisters and a brother. 
Bom in New Jersey, he resided in South Bend until three years ago, when he moved to Los Angeles. 
James WlUam Bdfis, OradeU, N. J., a gradu­ate student in the University and a resident in Vetville, died on Oct. 12 of polio. 
Receiving his A.B. from Wesleyan University, Mid­dletown. Conn., and his master's from Emory Um­versity, Emory, Ga., Mr. Bellis was working cm his doctor's degree in chemistry at Notre Dame at the time of his death. Surviving him are his wife and young son, as well as his parents and two brothers. 
The **AImnnns** extends sincere sympathy to Ray­mond J. Angstea, '29, Flulip J., *33, and Edward F., ex-34, on the death of their father; to Edwin 
A. Be^cry, '27, on the death of his mother; to James H. Bicnan, ex-20, on the death of Ids mother; to Robert E. Brooks, Jr., *43, on the deadi of his father; to Louis C. CoUeran, *47, on the death of his infant son; to JaaMs C. Cnnran, '34, on the death of his wife; to Jobn W. Davis, *32, and DeLancy J., '37, on the death of their father; to Rev. William P. Evans, C.S.a, '41, on the death of his father; to Rev. Artlmr J. Hope, C.S.C., '20, on the death c^ his brother; to.Earfe C Hniey, *24, and James D., '24, on the death of their mother; to Danid C. Lory, *48, on the death of his father; to Rcr. Tkomaa McAvoy, C.S.C., '25, and Rcr. Bernard L., C.S.C., '29, on the death of their aont; to Vini— A. hrish, '08, on the death of hb daughter; to Rcr. Jos ^ M. Ride, C.S.C '24, on the death of his father; to Rcr. Chester J. SduKader, CS.C , '43, on the death of his mother; to Frank Walerlui, ex-47, on the death of his mother; to Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C^.C , '32, and Francis J., '28, on the death of their mother; to Adam J. Wolf, cx-39, and Robert N., cx-44, on the death of their mother; to Henry M. Woods, cx-52, on the death of his father. 
Personals 
7905 — 1909 
WTiile in Europe recently, Klaximilian St. George, Chicago, ran across Pierre de Lundcn who 'was at school in 1907 and thereabouts. His address is 72 Ave. de L'.Armcc, Brussels, Belgium. 
7970 
Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, St. Catherine's Church, 3443 E. 93rd St., Cleveland, 4, O. 
From Father Mike: Anticipating a nod from some part of the countr>­and from some member of the class of 1910 wc have delayed the sending of this little gem of secretarial work until the last moment. It is designed merely to keep the 1910 class in good order even If not good perspective. 
The cflTorts of Vice-President Buckley have im­pressed me most favorably. Great credit is due him but in this particular instance the various techniques have failed to produce. Just try to fancy lack of production—in these days. 
This does not in any way resemble a class letter, but assuming that several 1910 men read the ALUM­NUS, it is obvious that a committee of one can in­stitute impcaclimcnt proceedings and secure—per­haps—the more or less frantic cHorts of a brand new secretary. 
Strange enough we recently mailed Christmas cards to the membership. Wliat to say? No re­sponse, and it is quite unthinkable to mention names in connection with my reaction because after all is said and done we might be sued for libel or closed for business. 
On second thought—presuming on the existence of the first—that Christmas card idea was not so good. Tlie boj-s—men now—might have considered it vi­sionary, impractical, ideological and, in a sense, a waste of money for the missionary cards for which we paid coin of the realm. 
Blithely hoping for credit in tills new s>-stcm of secretarial accounting and w^th .best personal greet­ings to the head skipper and^TRe^taff, 
Yours for the success of the 1950 reunion which could—indirectly—be a part of the Holy Year. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSaUe St, 
Chic^o 3, HL 
Fred Steers has passed on to us a letter received from Ed lister. Box 595, Blue Jay, Calif. Ed says in part: "Looking over the picture (in the "Alum­nus"), I see Father Moriarty, who was prefect when I was at Walsh Hall, also Claude Soi^. - . . So kindly remember me to them if they recall me. 
"Should yom: footsteps ever be pointed out my way up here at Lake Arrowhead, a mile high in the skies, the latch is alwa^-s off to you and any­one else we mutually are acquainted with." 
7914 
Ira W. Hurley, 231 S. LaSaUe St, Chicago, HL 
Clarence Dcrridc is now president of the Board of Public Works of Los Angeles, Calif. His address is Room 173, City Hall. 
Chaxlcs Fahy is an alternate member of the United States Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly. He was once solicitor general of the United States and also ser\'ed at one time as a member of the Petroleum Administrative Board and as general counsel of the National Labor Re­lations Board. He was also legal ad%^or and direc­tor of the legal diviuon of the Military Government in Germany. 
7975 
James E. Sanford 509 Cherry St, Wumetka, HI. 
From Jim Sanford: Wc are starting to organize our committee for the 1915 35th reunion next June. The plan is to have groups in the Chicago and Notre Dame areas meet periodically and lay out a tentative program and submit it to the members of the class throughout the countr>'. The committee at present consists of Al Kuhle, Norman Ranstead and L. D. Keeslar. This committee, with additional members, vn\\ meet and the class can expect more information after the plans arc discussed. 
Starting in this issue we will endeavor to bring class news as to the present activities of the mem­bers. Al Kuhle, Chicago regional representative of Federal Security Agency, Bureau of Old Age and Sur\'ivors Insurance, is rc!>i>onsible for this operation in four states and supeniscs 600 people. In 1949 his regional unit will disburse $85,000,000. 
Al's daughter, Kathleen, recently received her de­gree from St. Catherine's at St. Paul. She is now with the Armour Research Laboratories. Another daughter, Mary Ann, has just entered Clark College as a freshman. Al's home address is 117 S. Sunset Avenue, La Grange, III. 
L. D. Keeslar retired some years ago after an active and successful career in the purchasing de­partment of Peoples' Gas, Light and Coke Co. He lias now joined an Illinois Utilities Scr\-ice, where he is also carr>'ing on successfully. 

Norman Ranstead is on the engineering staff of Universal Oil Products Co. and has decided to be ptcsent next June. 
Saw Bill Afooney of Indianapolis recently and we can count on him as a member of the national 1915 reunion committee. He will work with John Mc-Shane to round up our members in the Indiana re­gion. John was the lone representative of our class at Notre Dame last June, so we arc counting on him to be present for our anniversary party. 

The secretary takes this opportunity to extend congratulations on behalf of the class to Louis F. Buckley, vice-president of the Alumni Association, who is in charge of class promotion. His enthusi­asm and constructive suggestions helped to arouse this secretary and many others to a realization of the importance of more class notes and frequent communication with the members, particularly with a reunion in the ofhng. 
An effort will be made to have Joseph Scott, prominent attome>* of Los Angeles, talk to us at our class luncheon or some other gathering during the reunion. 
As the class will remember, he delivered a stirring talk the day we received our diplomas. The theme, as I remember it, was ^'Swimming Against the Stream." Some of us might have learned something about this in the years since we listened to this silver-haired and silver-tongued orator. To hear him again will be an inspiration. 
Be assured that between now and next June, you %viU hear from us frequently, and a letter will soon be in the mail, notifying the classmates as to the membership on the nation-^^ide committee to attain a 100 per cent attendance next June. 
Mark your calendar now for reunion dates: June 9, 10 and 11, 1950. 
Bill Mooney, president of Mooney-Mueller-Ward wholesale drug firm in Indianapolis, ser\'ed as chair* man of the finance committee in Butler University's recent drive for a new $750,000 College of Phar­macy building. Appropriate i:eremonies were held on the site of the proposed building, vnth Bill dig^g the first spadeful of dirt. Bill is also a member of the Notre Dame Foundation Committee in Indiana­polis. 
Governor Chester Bowles of Connecticut announc­ed that Gcoi ^ Shuster, president of Hunter Col­lege, New York City, had accepted appointment to a six-year term as a member of the State Board of Education. George resides in Stamford, Conn. 
The "News Bulletin" of the Institute of Inter­national Education carried an article in the October issue with the title "Education and Wisdom." It was another of George's many brilliant writing achievements. 
7976 
Giovcr F. Miller, 612 Wisconsin Ave, Racine, Wis. 

Joseph LaFortnne, vice-president of the Warren Petroleum Co. in Tulsa, Okla., and a Lay Trustee of the University, has been named a Knight Com­mander of the Chrder of St. Gregory by His Holiness Pope Pius XII. 
1917 
Bernard J. Voll 206 £. Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. 

John Cassidy, Peoria, 111., is a member of the board of public welfare commissioners recently ap­pointed by Governor Stevenson of Illinois to re­view administration of welfare institutions and services in the state. 
7978 
Gcoi^e E. Harbert, De Kalb County Abstract Co., Sycamore, III. 

After many years of devoted duty to the class, John Lemmer in October asked to be relieved as class secretary*. The Alumni Office reluctantly agreed to accept his resignation, expressing to him at the same time the gratitude of the University, the Alumni Association and the class for his magnificent help over wide spans of time. 
Geoi ^ Harbert has generously taken over John's work as class secretary and George's first contribu­tion of class news will appear in the next issue of the "Alumnus." Needless to say, you could help his cause immeasurably by tossing off a note in his direction to tell him, and your classmates, about your grandchildren and other people. 
From John Lemmer: Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., has been named president of Stonehill College in North Easton, Mass. The college, founded by the Congregation of Holy Cross last year, began its second year of operation in September and boasts of a 580-acre campus, a new science building and a growing student body. Father Boland takes over his new job with an in­valuable career in education behind him. 
After recei\*ing his A.B. in 1918, he began a course of teaching and study that ^ed to a Ph.D. at Catholic University, the vice-presidency of St. Ed­ward's University in Austin, Texas, and a return to Notre Dame as prefect of discipline. Prior to the war, he was head of the Department of Political Science and dean of the College of Arts and Let­ters. In the early war years he was special adWsor to the Navy on academic problems involved in the establishment of the NROTC at Notre Dame. He entered the service of his country as a navy chaplain in 1942 and his war record included participation in the initial assaults on Iwo Jima and Okinawa. He returned to Notre Dame after four years of service and resumed hts duties as head of the Department of Political Science, a position which he filled until his ^pointment to the presidency of Stonehill this summer. 
A native New Englander, Father Boland returns to home soil to assist in fulfilling a long standing dream of the Congregation—the development of a strong Catholic college, modeled on the pattern of Notre Dame, in New England. 
7979 
Theodore C Rademaker Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind 

Magnificently responding to the "influence" exert­ed upon him at the class reunion last June, and to the inviution of the Alumni Association, Ted Ra­demaker has taken over as secretary of the classs of 1919, succeeding CHarence W. Bader, resigned, bet­ter :knowii nationally as Chick. 
While welcoming Ted to the ranks of the class secretaries the Alumni Office thanks Chick for splen­did aid. Ted's first news will be in the next issue of the "Alumnus." 
7920 
Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St, Los Angeles 3, Calif. 

Thirty-year Class Reunion the week-end following Commencement, June 9, 10, and 11, 1950. 
CLASS REUNION CHAIRMAN: Edward J. Mee­han. South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind. 
SECRETARY: Leo B. Ward, 458 South Spring St., Los Angeles 13, Calif. 
COMMITTEE MEMBERS: Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., Rev. Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C., Vincent F. Fagan, Mishawaica, Ind., Michael Edward Doran, South Bend, Ind., William Frands Fox, IndianapDlis, Ind., Harry A. RichH-ine, South Bend, Ind. 
Religious, please arrange with your superiors to get out this week-end. Married men, get permission from your wives to attend. All others make such arrangements as may be required under your par­ticular circumstances. 
As plans develop you will be notiBcd. 
I spent the weekend of the Tulanc game on the campus and was pleased to note that Michael Ed­ward Doran, like Barnum and Bailey's Circus, is bigger and better than ever. Those of you who re­member Mike as a tall, slim lad would never recog­nize him with all his estimated 2-10 pounds, fit and healthy looking. 
I also saw Si Degree (the elder) with his son who is at least sbc inches taller than Si. 
Bill Fox was present in the dressing room after the game, representing the "Indianapolis News." Other than his grey hair. Bill has not changed. 
The St. Joe Valley Club had a smoker before the game at which was present Walter "Hick'' Sweeney, the two-milcr, still selling real estate and insurance and looking in condition to go two miles on short notice. 
Father Frank Goodall, until recently was vice-president of Portland University, has been trans­ferred back as pastor of Christ the King Church, just out of South Bend. 
Vincc Fagan was around and still appears to be the number one architect in Northern Indiana. 
Father Art Hope is stationed at St. Joe Farm and, as the historian for the University, recently reissued his revised one-hundred year history of Notre Dame, now brought down to the beginning of Father John Cavanaugh*s regime. 
I recently saw Father Pat McGuire, now Rt. Rev. Msgr. Patrick McGuire, stationed at Salt Lake City and apparently thriving inasmuch as I am advised that he has the fmest parish in the Salt Lake City diocese. Msgr. McGuire spends a few days in Los Angeles at rather frequent intervals. 
I tmderstand from LyIe Musmaker*5 brother that Lyle's latest efforts in the military service convinced him that it was time to settle down to a happy married life. He is now married and a parent. I forgot to inquire whether it was an heir or heiress to the Musmaker millions. 
Bill Jones of the Alumni Board reports that the Hon. Joseph Patrick 0*Hara, congressman from Minnesota, finds time away from his arduous duties representing hb constituents to get in a golf game with various members of the Supreme Court, the Circuit Court of Appeal and other dignitaries in Washington. 
A number of agreeable surprise visits and com­munications have been received in the past few months. Those of the class of 1920 will undoubtedly remember "Dog" White, now Mr. Richard M. White, o.s. 07-19, Pacific Coast manager of Frank's Manufacturing Co., well servicing and drilling units. Dog, or Dick as he is now known, advised that he has a son now attending Notre Dame. Since Ica\^ng Notre Dame he attended Tulane University and went in the oil well supply business, with offices in Hous­ton, Texas, Tuka, Okla., and now in Los Angeles. 
I have had a number of communications from Morrie Starrett, Port Townsend, Wash., postmaster. Morrie was chairman in charge of entertainment for the weekend Notre Dame and Washington played in Seattle. 
I also received a letter from Ed Dundon, prae­tidng Uw in Iron Mountain, Mich. 
George (Obie) O^Brien has been quite ill and had to give up theater management. He is now en­gaged in the stationery and printing business in Glendale, Calif., which business keeps him busy but does not have the long and confining hours of run­ning theaters. 
I also received a visit from Jim McCabe and Bill White. Jim, of course, lives in Los Angeles. Bill was visiting his son in Los Angeles. He returned to Ottawa, III., where he is a farmer, showing that the agricultural course at Notre Dame does produce results. 
I also had visits from Conroy Scoggins of Hous­ton, Texas, and Bill Jones, of Washington, D. C , both of \vhom arc directors and members of the committee on revision of the constitution and by­laws of the Alumni Association. 
Rev. Stanblaus Liscwski, C.S.C., was formally in­stalled as pastor of Holy Trinity parish, Chicago, at a solemn high Mass on Nov. 6. A banquet hon­oring Father Liscwski was held the evening of Nov. 13. 
Father Lisc\v5ki was born in Chicago and attended Holy Trinity grammar and high school there. Later he received his bachelor of arts degree from Notre Dame. After finishing college, he entrred the no­vitiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross. After his novitiate year, he was sent to Rome, where he completed his philosophical and theological studies at Gregorian University. He returned from Rome a doctor of philosophical and theological science, and a priest. 
In 1934 he went to Jaglello University, Cracow, Poland, after serving as curate at St. Casimir's church in South Bend. After his return to this country in 1936 he was professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, and was president of St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. 
Father Liscwski succeeded at Holy Trinity parish the late Rev. Casimir Sztuczko, C.S.C., who had been pastor there for 52 years. 
I92T 
Dan W. Dufify, 1101 N.B.C. Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio 

Jim Huxford was a recent recipient of a golf tro­phy presented him at the wind-up dinner of the Skaneateles (N. Y.) Country Club. Jim, who do^vn­ed his opponent on the 18th green in the senior flight of the club's tournament this summer, is the first to receive the new award. Jim's son, Dave, is married and has a daughter and is back at Notre Dame for his law work. Dave spent three years in the Marines. 
7922 

Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, N. Y. 
From Kid Ashe: God has summoned another 1922 man—John £ . Mahoney of Enid, Okla., who died recently. Details of his death are not now available. At N.D., John was registered in Commerce. He was a mighty fine chap. All who knew him were much impressed with his character, his personality, and all valued his warm friendship. We of '22 extend our sympathy to a surviving brother—^A. G. Mahoney, and to hb sis­ters—the Misses Mary and Frances Mahoney. 
Here is a letter from our good friend Charlie HirschbuU, grand mufti of the 1922 class for the Northwest territories: 
'•You are a very poor manager for not having arranged your duties so they would have carried you to Seattle for the Washington game on Oct. 1. You missed a grand game and a grand occasion, and I will try to put forth some of the highlights as I saw them. 
"First and most important is the fact that Jeiry Jones and wife Marion came to spend their vacation with us, arriving Sept. 27 from Dixon, and staying until Oct. 4. Pat (Mn. Hirschbuhl) and I had a chance to show them a part of our country out here, went to the game in Seattle, and returned to Portland for a couple of days before they had to return home. You can well imagine how much we enjoyed their visit, which was altogether too short. 
but did allow time for some real visiting and fun. "In Seattle we saw quite a few 'old-timen,' Dnke Hodler. '23, Frank Umaga, '04, Rage Kiler. '23, Bin S<lnutt, '10, Hngh Lacey, '14, and John Kil­keaner. '23. I had a dandy visit with Herb JoMa and Bill Schmitt the night before the game, and were guests at another occasion of Hugh Lacey, and again with Jokn ODonndl, ex-24. We went to the Seattle alumni luncheon at the Edmond Meaney Hotel, from there in a bus to the game, and after­wards to the usual round of celebrations, etc. Others at the game were: Gene Murphy, '23, Natt MacDou­^gall, '31, Ivan Sharp, '23, and many other Port-landers of later days. 
"The weather during the visit of Jerry and Marion was near perfect, and were we glad! Right after they left conditions changed; the rains came and now Portland is back to normal. At Timberline Lodge, where we spent one night, there are now several feet of snow, although the ground was ab­solutely bare when we were there just two weeks ago. It was the grandest treat in the world to have the Jones' with us, and not since our reunion in '47 have I had so much ne\vs as Jerry was able to give me, regarding our former classmates, teachers, etc." 
If you should happen to see a giant tackle (weight 26B pounds) playing on the Ne%'ada football varsity team next season,, chances are it will be Tommy Atkinson, son of Doctor Hank Atkinson of Green Bay, Wis. Tommy is now on the Ne\'ada freshman squad. 
Chet Grant, who is getting much favorable atten­tion for his publication "Under the Hat"—a weekly letter on the Notre Dame football team for Notre Dame fans—paid Bock Shaw a fine compliment in his Oct. 4 issue. After mentioning an anecdote in­volving Buck in his playing days, Chet had this to say: 
". . . the same Buck Shaw who now coaches San Francisco 49ers— in his day an 183-pound gentleman and scholar and as fine a lineman as ever I've played with or watched play." 
Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Raymond J. Keans of Terre Haute upon the occasion of their 20th wedding anniversary celebrated on Oct. 9. Also, to the AI Scotts of Los Angeles for tiieir 20th anni­versary on Oct. 28. 
Joanne, daughter of the CharKe Hinchbohls of Portland, Ore., was the bride of Bradley Quinn of Portland on Sept. 3. We congratulate the newly­weds, and extend our best wishes, also, we felicitate the bride's parents—Charlie and Pat. 
D. Worth dark of Idaho, former senator, an­nouced recently that he will be a candidate for the Senate in 1930. He previously served one term m the Senate and two terms in the Home. 
Aaroa Hngnenaid was recently toastmaster at a kickoff breakfast for the South Bend Commomty Chest campaign. 
Earl "Corfy" tamhfan resigned as head coaA of the Green Bay Packers whom he had directed for the past 28 years. He'll work with them as vice-president and general manager. 
James Metcalfe, who is famous for his 'Tor­traiU," presented in many papers, was in South Bend Oct. 3, 4 and 5 giving lectures to the South Bend Rotary club, St. Mary's College, Notre Dame journalism classes and the Eagle's lodge. 
William A. A. CastriBni is a trustee for the Rob­ert Gould Research Foundation of Cincinnati. Bill is ^ving a lot of his time to promoting the Natural Law Institute at Notre Dame, sponsored by Mr. Gould. 
Will you particularly in your Masses and prayers remember Jack Miles, '47, son of Frank, '22,_ who, as this is written, is still in an iron lung in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, the victim of polio? Stricken early in September, Jack has been in criti­cal condition ever since. 
1923 

Fan] H. Castner, 1305 W. Arliiigton Av e St Fkul, Mian. liCs Logan visited the campus Sept. 13. Three cL his sons are all in schtol at Notre Dame now. 
7924 
Rev. Thomas A. KcUy, C.S.C. Cavanaugh Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Again not much news of the class of *24, the re­sponse to appeals being meagre. First, however, the congratulations of the men of '24 go out to our classmate, R. Couroy Scoggins, on his election as a member of the Supreme Board of the Knights of Columbus for a term of three years, starting Sept. 1, 1949. Conroy, as a director of the Alumni Asso­ciation, made a recent, albeit hurried, call on his Alma Mater the week of the N.D.-Tulane game, but had to rush off to Canada to a meeting of the Supreme Board of the K. of C. 
Among other recent \isitors to the campus was 
T. Cliff Noonan. Your secretary* had the pleasure of a surprise meeting on the stairway of Ca\-anaugh Hall with Cliff and Mrs. Noonan, and the still fur­tlier surprise that ClifTs son, Edward, resides in Cavanaugh. Another son, Tom, was also here; Tom is entering Maryknoll Seminar>' to prepare for the foreign missions. Cliff already has another son studying for the priesthood at Our Lady of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, III. 
John N. Stanton, Gary, now chief deputy prose­cutor of Lake County, Indiana, has a son, John N., a sophomore, also resident of Ca\*anaugh and an­other son, James F., a freshman in Zabm. 
John Gotuaco, now in the Philippines, has a son enrolled as a freshman at N.D. Did you sec the son's picture in the ALUMNUS before this one? 
News of other *24 sons here or '24 daughters at St. Mary's will be welcome. Vour secretary hopes to complete the roster for the next issue. How about some help? 
Bob Rink on Oct. 26 last lost his ten-year-old son, Michael, who died of head injuries sustained in a fall off bis bicycle. The youngster was on his way to school for afternoon classes, when he lost control of his bic>'cle and fell in tlie path of an oncoming truck. The truck driver swerved and a\-oided bitting the fallen boy. Bob has tlie heart­felt sympathy of all his classmates in his sad bereavement. 
Four days alter our Commencement in 1924, Walter R. Rader, son ot the founder of the Buck­eye Clothing Store of Coshocton, O-, lost his father; Walt took over the management of the store, which is now celebrating its fourtieth year of ser\7cc to its community. The Buckeye Cloth­ing Store has long been a great figure in the ciric and athletic life of Coshocton and the congratulcw­tions of all his classmates go out to Walt on his successful management of a great enterprise. 
Ben Ong's latest address is Paramount ^fotors Co., First Floor, 8 F Po Ai Road, Taipeh, Formo­sa, China. 
Conroy Sco^ins was honored at a dinner in Houston, Texas, in recognition of his election as a supreme director of the Knights of Columbus. He is the immediate past state deputy of the Knights of Columbus, having retired from that ofHce on June 30 after serving three terms. 
Frank Kelly, of the Department of Speech at Notre Dame, spoke at the postgraduate college of the American Legion in Indianapolis in October on **Public Spc^ng." 
In the September issue of **The Houston Chron­icle Magazine" there was a picture of Buck Hennes and an article entitled **Hc Remembers 'Rock'." Buck was **the first official trainer" at Notre Dame and is now a professor of government in the Uni­versity of Houston. 
7925 
John P. Hurley, The Toledo Parlor Furniture Co., Toledo, O. 
From John Hurley: Twenty-five years is a long time, and the boys will have a lot of territory to cover at next June's reunion. In case you missed the list in the last ALUMNUS there are ten fathers who have sons as first-year students at the University. Edward Ahler­

ing, Herman CentlixTC, James Chisholm, VWIIiam Clemens, August Fipp, Irving Lammers, John Lightner, Geoi^e Ludwig, \^^Iiam Merriman and Armando Porta. 
Bill Cemey will be a grandfather by June, and Elmer Layden is the father of a varsity player. 
Jim Armstrong just received word that Bcfnic Li«-ergood is in a hospital with a serious heart at­tack. Remember Bcmie and the rest of your class­mates in your prayers. This brings up a point that Jim and some of the bo>*s I've talked to this past month thought ^vas a good start for our reunion year. 
Let every member of our class pin a dollar bill to a note about himself, his family, and any other information he may have on his fellow '25ers. These dollars will go into a fund for Masses for our de­ceased classmates, as well as the living ones. These Ivfasses ^%•iU start in November—as the *25ers in To­ledo have already started the bills rolling. If you don't have time for the note send the "green note" anyway. The Mass stipends will go to the Bengal Mission priests, 
Don Miller, our class president, sent this fine let­ter: **I ^%•as delighted to hear from you regarding our class reunion next June. You may rest assured that I shall do everything in my power to plan a successful reunion. In my opinion we had the finest class that ever graduated. I believe that the 1925 group accomplished more and had more spirit than almost any other class. 
".. . I have two of our classmates, Frank Stcd and Jack Kane, on my staflT in the United States Attorney's Office. . . . We have six children—fi\-e daughters and the youngest, a boy, who is entered in the class of 1961. 
*'As you perhaps know, I Avorked along with Tom 

Clark in his juvenile delinquency program as chair­man of the sports wTiters and broadcasters group through the country for the past four years. I was also elected national secretary of tlie United States Attomc>-s* Association and in 1948 ^vas elected presi­dent. 
*'I received a call from Joe Boland and he in­formed mc that the Four Horsemen wlW meet in New York on Oct. 24, and will be on the "We, the Peo­ple" program on Oct. 25. Our week-end reunion for the '24 team will be at the Southern California game." 
In Bill Cemey's letter accepting the chairmanship of the executive committee he said the list of thirty in South Bend was certainly larger than he realized, and if all made the reunion, it will be 25 years since he will have seen many of them. 
I recalled that there were half a dozen '25ers in Toledo and that I hadn*t seen some of them in quite a while, so I gave them all a call. This plan seems to be a "painless" way of getting news, and after tlic "dollar for Masses" drive is over, I will call on someone in the big cities to contact the boys on the 'phone. 
Ben Kesting's two sons are finished at Notre Dame. Jim, his younger one, graduated in architectural engineering last June. Ben is with the Comtc Con­struction Co. He saw Paul Hartman in Pittsburgh this summer. Paul has one son and a daughter. He is still in his father's business, the Pittsburgh Empire Oil & Gas Products. 
Paul Dooley couldn't talk on the 'phone and we had a "pad and pencil conversation" the last time I saw him, a few months ago. He had a serious oper­ation on his vocal cord but he came through the ordeal in good shape. Paul has two boys . . . Dick, eight, and John P., seven. 
Ray mima n has a married daughter, Kathleen; then Barbara, LawTence, Sherry and baby Judy. Ray is assistant secretary of the Unitcast Corp., here in Toledo. Reunion week will be a "red letter" one for Ray. If you remember, Ray **jumpcd the gun" on the rest of us so he is celebrating his 25th wedding anniversary on June 8, and then comes our reunion the following day. He hopes to be in good shape for both! 
T. Frank Murray is the manager of the Toledo Cartage Co. Frank's swell fanuly ranges from Tom, 15; then Fr^ik, Caroline, and Veronica, the young­est, is three and one-half. 
Carl Schaffer is with Owen & Owen, patent attor­neys. Carl's oldest, Ann, is attending Toledo Uni­versity; then John, 16, and Mark, seven. 
Your class "sec," John Huriey, is still in the fur­
The Notre Dame Alvunnus 

niture business with his brothers, and is proud of his two daughters, Moira, 15, and Patty, 13. 
Don't foriret to send the dollar—a check or a bill—for the Masses that will start in November, and continue (we hope) till our reunion Mass on June 10, 1950. 
Wally Cyr has been appointed assistant trade sales manager for the Yale and Toivnc Manufactur­ing Co. Walt joined Yale and Towne in 1926 after he was graduated from Notre Dame. He resides at 17 Hillside Ave., Stamford, Conn. 
The fall issue of the **Trailways Magazine" car­ried an article by Elmer Layden, entitled "Foot­ball." 
.^t a recent meeting of the South Bend chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants, 
A. J. Porta gave a talk on "Accounting as a Tool of Management." He is comptroller of the Stude­baker Corporation, and has a son at Notre Dame. 
At a recent management conference meeting of the Calvert Distillers Corp., it was discovered that three Notre Dam'e men ^verc there. John Roach is Calvert's director of trade relations; Joe Friel, '29, is assistant treasurer and assistant secretary; and Walt Houghton, '26, is advertising manager. A pic­ture of these three will appear in a later issue of the "Alumnus." 
Bill Hurley writes regarding the reunion: 

"Just recently I had lunch with John Snakard in New York, and he too is planning on being present. I looked up Frank Howland in Detroit about a month ago, and had a ver>' interesting gab-fest with him. He'll be there. I saw Dr. Frank KoMrals the night before the Notre Dame-Michigan State game, and I believe he will be among the present. I ran into Jack Courtney at a Ki^vanis meeting here a week ago, only to find he has been getting in town about every two weeks, and we hadn't seen each other in 25 years. He'll be there." 
1926 
John J. Ryan, 1415 W. Thome Ave., Chicago 26, HI. 
From John Ryan: 

In the September-October issue of the ALUMNUS we reported that the class roster ^vould be in your secretary's hands in time to get cards out to re­quest some life histories. It did arrive and proved my es^mate to be on the low side. 
The class roster, which includes all who received degrees in 1926, plus elected members of the class, breaks down as follows: living, 298; dead, 37; miss­ing, 26, or a total of 361. So it looks like the 25 I scheduled as contributing editors will have to be beyond the 30 (to which I changed when I got the roster) to 35 or 40 for each issue. Reason for the increase: so that we get everyone before the issue just ahead of our reunion in June, 1951. So fellows, when you get that card from me Just remember I'm writing a stack of them, and come right back wth your own wxiting. 
Now for a report of progress: 30 cards went out— II answers came back. And a telephone call from Mrs. Joe Kigali to say that Joe's letter was on the way (we'll get that in the next issue). That re­sponse (almost 40 per cent) is a pretty good start, but the other 19 fellows can disregard the deadline shown on the card and send their stories at their earliest opportunity. They will be used in the next issue. 
But let's get to the stories: 

RoUie Berry writes from Milwaukee on the letter­head of the Cramer-Krasselt Co. (advertising) that after a year with the late "South Bend News-Times" he moved into advertising with Studcbaker, then to Chicago for five years and to Milwaukee and his present connection, where he is an account executive. To some the fall of '29 recalls "Black Friday" and the market crash but to Rollie it means the time of his marriage to Mary Watson of Mishawaka. RoIIie reports their 12-year-old son. Bob, as a likely pros­pect for the foo^all team of *56. His experience on a visit to the campus a year ago indicates a need for Seeing Eye dogs for returning "old" grads. Don't worry, Rollie, enough of us will need guides in '51 that the University will see the wisdom ot pnmding them. 
It looks like a little difficulty in the Dallas home or Bni Dcffcrari ('22>'24) around Dec. 3—his 21­year-old son is a student at Southern Methodist. Bill writes that after he left N.D. he spent many years in the educational publishing field. Five years ago he went with Hiram Wallter. (We should get him and Uncle John (Calvert's) Roach together—how many 

volunteer judged can wc get?) Bill is now located in Dallas as the Walker Texas manager. 
Many years ago Phil Donovan proved a friend in need when I got my signals mixed and failed to meet my gal (and still my gal) on her arrival for the Prom. So he comes through again in answer to my call. Phil writes from his country home at In­gomar. Pa. (and it's a lovely one, as I remember it) that he has returned to Rccordah Corporation in Pittsburgh after four years in the Navy, most of which was in North Africa, England and on the Continent. But I'll bet he didn't serve in the "black gang," as he did on that summer cruise to the Orient. 
**Bcrt Dunne Productions" is the letterhead carry­ing a very complete story of the old reporter's life. Most of you remember Bert standing up to the plate ready to take his cut at that ball. But I rc­mtmbcr Bert for his rcportorial duties. Get him to tell you tlie story of that Pcnn State trip. I still think they wouldn't have stopped the train up there in the Pennsylvania hills. Bert was at N.D. in Oc­tober visiting his son, Patrick. He has four other children, two of whom should appear at N.D. in *56 and '63. Bert spent some years with Campbell-
Ewald (advertising agency), then went into adver­tising and public relations work for three years and for the past five years has been producing motion pictures. Probably many of you have seen some of his work or read some of his books. Bert reports that he sees Ed Fallon and Jim Duyer when he gets to New York and also sees Red Conroy in San Mateo. We'll be seeing you, Bert, in '51. 
Father Isidore Fussnecker, O.S.B.» who got his 
M.A. with us, writes from Florence, Ala., that he established Blessed Martin de Forres Church and has built a congregation for colored people in Florence. He sent a picture of his little church and another 
of his converts. If any of you want to help in his work, his address is 648 West College St., Flor­ence, Ala. 
Father Mniliam Green writes that he has been on the faculty of Loras College at Dubuque, la., since 1930. 
Bemie Hurley of Ponca, Ncbr., says he hears from Gerry McGinlcy in Ogallala, Ncbr., once in a while. He must have a pretty fair law practice for he planned to see the Southern California, Southern Methodist and one other game this fall. He'll have a son ready for N.D. in about four years. His two daughters, ages six and one, %vill wait a few years yet for their college education. And Bemie is an­other who sa>-s **will certainly plan to make the '51 reunion." 
How Pete La Ca\"a even found time to answer my card is more than I can figure. Listen to this: Member of St. Joseph Bar Association, justice of the peace in Alishawaka for 21 years, choir direc­tor, leader of family orchestra and quartette, pro­prietor of "Casa Maria" at Lake ^Vawasce, Ind., which is an outgrowth of private catering in his home, and father of four daughters and one son. He reports seeing IrH-ing Hurwich, Art and George Parage in South Bend and Gene Brown and Alex Sic%-ers in Elkhart. 
Harold Neu reports from Des Moines that he has celebrated his 20th anniversary and that the munici­pal bond business—Ballard-Hassett Company—pro­duces the groceries for his family which includes a 12ryear-old daughter and a nine-year-old son. He expects to sec the Southern California game. What about the reunion, Harold? 
Brother Stazuslaus Rimlowski, C.S.C., wrote a nice letter telling of his teaching work. For 18 years he was stationed at Holy Trinity High School in Chicago. For the past three years he has been at St. Anthony's High School in Long Beach, Calif. 
Look back for a second at Pete LaCava's story. See that **justicc of the peace." Here is one of his customers. Allen Travis reports that back in 1933 Pete put that "through the power invested in me by the State of Indiana I now pronounce you" stuff on him for ilfe. As this is written, Allen is preparing to take the California Bar exam. He practiced for years in South Bend, Mishawaka and East Chicago, until the Army beckoned in 1942. After bis service, which induded 15 months in New Guinea, he did what so many guys in the Army said they were going to do—he settled in California (at 1334 14lh Street, Santa Monica). Eddie Duggan and Harold Ntu, please note address. Allen s^d he'd like to hear from you. He will try to be on hand in '51. 
The members of the class for whom we have no current address are: Norfoin Areharti J. CuUen Brown, Lester J. Clarke, Dr. Fred R. Davis, Fnui­ds M. Esch, Dwight L. Field, Harold J. Galla^wr, Edward J. Gebben, Unsung Hahn, Joseph P. Har­vey, John W. Keelin, Harold J. Kiley, Gerard D. Left, John B. Lenihan, William D. Mintcr, Rev. P. Herman Mossman, O.S.B., Leon J. Pallanck, John 
E. Probst, AVilliam J. Regan, Emmett T. Rohwer, Manuel V. Sanchez, Joseph W. Tatham, Gerald L. Timmins, John H. Wagner, Maurice P. Welsh. 
If anybody can give tis a missing address, or even any clues as to how to get it, we'll be mighty grateful. Write to mc or to Bill Doolcy. 
Well, fellows, there it is. I hope Bill Dooley loses his blue pencils and uses it all. Sorry I couldn't just send your letters on and say "Print in." For the rest of you who couldn't make the "deadline"— forget the date and send in the dope. It will go in the next issue. 
"Remember '25—Prepare for '51." 
Clem Crowe, former line coach of the Buffalo Bills, was named head coach. 
Dan Kelly, South Bend, who has one of the largest collections of historical newspapers in the United States, had his papers on exhibit in the pub­lic schools in South Bend and Mishawaka from Oct. 1 to Oct. 8. Dan accompanied the display to the \-arious schools and told about items of out­standing interest. 
Rudy Gocpfrich, South Bend, has been appointed chief engineer of the automotive brake department in the BcndLx Aviation Corp. Rudy has been with Bendlx since 1927 and headed the new brake de­velopment section from 1933 to 1943, when he became assistant chief engineer. 
"Man Around the House," published by Prentice-Hall, New York, is Noib Engels' latest book. More about it later, after the Profcfssor lets me read a copy. For the present, all I can say about it js that it concerns the simple business of making— yourself, that is—Chippendale chests, hurricane lamps and other such pieces of this and that—'WRD. 
1927 

Joseph M. Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From Joe Boland: Some^vherc the sun is shining . . . and somewhere secretaries are safe . . . but, witli Lou Buckley on the prowl, these sections of the ALUMNUS have to come-through %vith readable material or ^ve're likely to lose our francliisc. So, brethren, check-in with the Sec whenever possible—in person; by mail; dog-team; or carrier-pigeon, 1*11 accept anything but collect-wires! 
Don ^Vilkins .. . now, a colonel in the Army Air Forces • • . sho^ved-up on the campus for the Tulanc-game week-end, in charge of the AAF head­quarters detail handling the ABC broadcast of the game, ^vhich was aired in the interest of AAF re­cruiting. Don, air-and-chair-bomc, not only likes his assignment . . . but it evidently likes him, be­cause the job he's doing is a good one. 
Regu Lavelle did the right thing: while in South Bend, he called me and left word that he was in to^vn from his native Pittsburgh . . . even though we failed to get together (my fault) his name gets in here. 
Ralph R. De Leo, sales manager for (hold your hats on this one, boys!) the Anne Alt Brassiere Co., Compton, Calif., was a station-caller after the In­diana game—he was en route to New York on busi­ness. Looks fine, feels better . . . said "hello" to everyone via this space. 
Frank Fcnde^ast's father died recently in Gales-burg. 111., . . . according to Lon Buddey, who be­longs in the next room but who has just come in for a visit with this item, and a few more to follow. 
Loa adds that BID Coyae » with the legal dnisioB of the Atomic Eniergy CdanuiskMi and tivias m J<^t, m. Back spent w eveai^ whh Bill aad Dr. Ed Maycc. The Coynes hsvc oae boy. 
Milw McDenMtt — Wio lives at 1895 Oakdell Drive, Menlo Park, Cilif., got far enou^ off liaine­base to see the Waduogtcok-Notre Dame game is Seattle and we held-tqi the comer of the OlyB^ic Hotel there for hours while we batted-ont ffies about '27 and adjacent years. Mike is west-coast represen­tative for Hitt-Ran Fumitore . . . and, naturally, had '^business" in Seattle the week-end of Oct. I! 
Mike passes on the word that Dave Wdaj a living at Millbrae, Calif,, working for the Cftlifomia Power and li^ t Co. and that Kay Saffina is a native now of 'Manhattan Beach, one of Los An­geles' many suburbs. Fit Hcacy and Byrie Groae­close were somewhere in the throng at Seattle, both McDcrmott and Ho b Joacs agreed . . . because they had met, and talked: but I missed connections with both, sorry to say. 
Ed De Clercq is now making his home once again in his native South Bend—after Chicago, Peoria, and war-time sojourns in the Army. Ed is planning to return to the wholesale-grocery field: his activity before the war. He's feeling swell . . . ready to roU once more, after a long siege of illness that followed his military service. 
From the Alumni Office came word of the death in 1943 of Dr. Gyaa Shaima, Ph.D., '27. Remember him in your prayers. 
That's about **thirty" for now; but remember . . , Buckley's looking over that fence, inspecting the growth of pasture here . . . M keep that stuff com­ing in for prcqier plant prodnction! 
Art Bradley is recreation director at the Newark School, Newark, N. Y. 
Ehner Maxdaaao announced the opening of his law oflSces spedaliang in the law of taxation and related matters at 529 Circle Tower, Indian^iolu 
4. He lives at 125 East 51st St. 
James Griffin Jay, 302 N. Alpine Dr., Beverly Hilts, Calif, writes the story for "Chip Grant" in the "Catholic Boy," published at Notre Dame. The Jays have three children: Bob, a Jesuit scolas­tic; Anne, a candidate for the Sisters of the Holy Cross, and Mike, aged 13. 
Lyle Moraicy is with Knousc Foods at Peach Glenn, Pa. 
Vic Lcmmcr, '26, writes that he took care of Tom "Red" Heardcn and his St. Norbert football team while they stayed at an Ironwood, Mich., hotel for several nights. They played and beat Northland College (54^) at Ashland, Wis. Red and his players attended Mass in a body and received Holy Communion. Red had his usual top team. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley, 

4700 W. Adams St, Chicago 44, HL 
From Loa Bndtley: 
I spent a very enjoyable evening with Fadier Jamct flalhgan, C.S.C., recently in Watertown, Wis., where he is pastor of St. Bernard's Church. It was like old times getting up early to be pres­ent at his Mass. I was unable to give him any recent information on Ed McGanley. Ed, by the way, recently moved to 1058 Main St., Leicester, Mass. How about a report from you, Ed? Father Gallagan mentioned that Swede Schrocdcr has a son at St. Thomas College in St. Paul. The deceased members of the Class of 1928 are continuously re­membered by Fr. Gallagan, and especially during the month of November. 
A business trip to LaCrosse, Wis., gave me the opportimity to see Aagic Grams and Joe Doyle. It seemed like only a few years ago when I saw a pic­ture of Augie's four Uttle daughters in ''Life." When Augie informed me that one of his daoghtexs is now in her second year of college at St. Mary's, I realized that the "Life" picture appeared some 12 years s^o. I was sorry to hear that Angie's father died very recently. Augw has a feed mill in !»• Crosse and a farm near the city. Although Angie is as modest as ever, I heard from a number of people in LaCrosse of the outstanding work he has done in religious, civic and Notre Dame fund and dub affurs. 
It was a pleasant surprise to meet Joe Doyle of Sparta, Wis.^ who was with us in Frcsliman hall, on the st ^ of the LaCrosse district office of the Wis­consin State Employment Scr\'icc. Joe lives in Sparta and has three girls and two hoys. Two of his daugh­
ters are in nurses' training. Joe inquired about Vince Carney and about the Evansvillc gang with whom he roomed in Freshman Hall. 
I had an opportunity to talk to a number of the '28 men in Milwaukee recently. Art Sla\-in, ^vho is married and with the Soil Conscr\'ation Service, mentioned that he saw Gus Jenkins recently in NHI-u-aukee. Since Gus seems to travel more than most of us, I think he should give us a report for the next issue. Let's hear from you, Gus. Paul Brust and his brother have an arcliitectural firm in Mil­waukee. Paul has five children. I enjoyed haWng the opportunit>- of spending some time with Frank Holdampf who is doing structural engineering work in Milwaukee. Frank is married and has three cliil­drcn: He is quite active in K. of C. affairs and makes a number of trips throughout the countr>- in 
K. of C. bowling tournaments. I was unable to reach Bill Brown, another Milwaukee '28cr; however, I have seen Bill recently in Cleveland and Chicago at Catholic Economic Asociation meetings. Bill is in the legal department of Allis-Chalmcrs. 
I met Jack Lavelle at the Chicago airport not long ago. He had been in this area attending some games. Jack tells me he has lost weight, which was not evident to me since I had not seen Iiim in some time. He promised to send me some news soon. I understand from the N. Y. felIo%vs that in addition to his C.Y.O. work in N. Y., Jack is kept bus>' as an after-dinner speaker and as a scout at games throughout tlie countr>-. 
A recent trip to New York did not allow time to see many of the fellm%'s there. However, I did have an opportunity to see Bemie Garber and Steve Sherry. They are working together with tlic Corbin Co., 33 W, 60th St., N. Y. 23, in fund raising activ­ities for Catholic organizations. Bemie mentioned that Dan Verrilli, who is in business in Morris­town, N. J., stopped in to see him a short time ago. Steve Sherry, like Bemie, retains the youthful ap­pearance of campus days. Steve ^cas in service dur­ing the vriT and had taught in California prior to that time. I discussed plans for our 25-ycar reunion in 1953 with Bemie. I am hoping he will take over the job of promoting that reunion as he did so well in 1948. 
Bill Murphy called me recently to let me know that Bill Cronin had been in Chicago to attend the funeral of his father-in-law while I was out of town. Bill Cronin prcnously had been at Notre Dame %vhere his son, Vaughn, began this year as a fresh­man. Bill Kfurphy is in sales work for a cliemical concern in Chicago. He is still single. Bill reports that Bill Annin is in public accounting work in Chi­cago. 
Bill Jones and his wife and daughter stopped in Chicago on their way from California to \Vashing­
ton. Bill reported that my old Freshman Hall room­mate, Joe Brannon, is now with Scars Roebuck Co. in Los Angeles, Calif. The address of Joe's store is 4550 W. Pico Blvd. Joe is married and has a family. He was in the Navy duing the Avar. 
I met Vince Ducey's brother in Chicago wlio told me that Vince is with the California State Employ­ment Service in Sacramento, Calif. His address is 1421 - 16th St. there. Vince was in service during the war. It was good to get a^report on Vince and I tmderstand he is still single. 
The other day I met Frank Meyer in the loop. Frank lives in Hammond, is married and has three daughters. I sec Father Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C., quite often, as he comes into Chicago to do re­search work on his Ph.D. thesis. He has completed his class work at Chic^o University on his Ph.D. I met Ed Keenan at the I^abor Day Mass at Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. I understand that Joe Doran of Lafayette is now in Atlanta, Ga., with Sears Rodiuck & Co. 
Leo Walih wrote from Grand Rapids, Mich., where he is a member of the law firm of Carmody, Gea>, Walsh & Block. Leo married his St. Mary's girl friend of campus days, Mildred Ronan. They have three children, two boys and a girl. Leo has attended the annua] Notre Dame Retreat for the pMt 12 yean and has seen Henry Hasley and Spike McAdams at the retreats. By the way. Spike is very much in the news in Chicago these days as at­torney for Preston Tucker in the case before the U. S. District Court here. Spike was a most suc­cessful campaign manager a year ago for Senator Paul Douglas. 
Joe Horan reports from Fort >Va>-nc Avherc he is A«th the General Electric Co. Joe is married and has a 16-year-old son. Joe mentioned that he sees Frank McCarthy, Avho still looks lit enough to play on an>-body's team, and Frank Metrailer, '29, who is with General Electric 
Father Andy Mulrcany writes Avith his usual en­thusiasm over his parish work at St. Man^-'s Church, 209 E. Tenth St., Austin, Texas. Father Andy feels like a real Texan, as he starts on his sixth year there. He visited his brother, Al, in Laurence tftis summer. Al is active in Notre Dame Foundation work there. Father Andy mentioned that he called Frank Creadon between trains in Chicago and that he heard from Fred Wagner of Tiffin, O. Andy re­ports that Brother Patrick, C.S.C., is on the staff at St. Edward's University. Keep up the good work. Father, and please continue to remember us in your prayers. 
\^nce Stacc came through with a newsy letter from Dearborn, Mich. Vin is still with the Detroit Edison Co. as assistant purchasing agent. He spends a good share of his time placing their major con­struction projects. He sees Jiw Simonin quite often in their construction engineering department and Art Scheberle who has rcj'oined that same depart­ment after being away for quite a few years. Vince was in the Air Force lighting the Battle of the Pentagon during the war years. He observed that his dvil engineering gang will get a laugh to hear that his primary- classification was finally listed as an "Electronics Officer." He was chief of the Guided Missiles Branch of the Research Development and Production Dirision of the Army .\ir Force. 
Another Michigancr from whom I have not had a report for some time. Dr. Guy L. Loranger, ^vrote from 250 Raj-son St., Northrille, Mich. I was sorr>­to hear that Guy has been quite ill during recent years, which accounts for his inability to attend the 20-year reunion. He was in Ne^v Guinea and the Philippines two years ser\ing ^rith the Fifth Field Hospital. Guy was married in 1935 and has six children, five girls and a boy. 
I assigned Joe Morrissey the j"ob of roring '28 re­porter for the football games. Joe saw the following at the Indiana game, in addition to regulars Pat Canny and John Frederick: Bob Graham, George Coury, and Bert Koizen. Joe's coverage of the Pur­due game included Frank Dono\'an, Vince Walsh, Bob Mohlman, Francis Meyer, Pat Canny and John Wallace. Joe noted that the little man from Indian­apolis, Bob Kirfay, was conspicuous by his absence. How about that. Bob? 
Joe's report also mentioned that he talked to Marion HefTeman recently in Louisville. Marion is at the First National Bank there and is still single. 
Fred Pfortner is with the Indianapolis Power and Light Co. in Indianapolis. 
Former Congressman Bob Grant has joined the public relations firm of Grant, Ploeser, DLxon and Murphy with offices at 111 West Washington St., Chicago. Bob %vill remain in South Bend where he is also a member of the law firm of Voor, Jackson, Grant and Mc^fichael. 
Dr. Frank Ford is a resident surgeon at Cook County Hospital, Chicago.^ 
Jim Shocknessy, Columbus, O.', was named chair­man of the Ohio Turnpike Commission by Governor Lausche. The Commission is organized to determine the location of th estate's first super toll road. 
F. X. James O'Brien is a securities specialist for the government and is located in Tokyo, Japan. His address is ESS/AC-GHQ, SCAP-APO No. 500, San Francisco, Calif. 
George Coury \-isited the campus on Oct. 8 and delivered lectures to two sections of Father Mc­Dona^'s labor-management class in the Department of Economics. On Nov, 5 he delivered another lec­ture to the finance majors in the College of Com­merce. 
The body of Capt. Tom Ruckdshaus, Indianapolis, Army Air Force officer who was killed in a plane crash in a mountainous area of India on a war­time flight, has been returned to Indiana, ^femorial and burial services were held at the United States National Cemetery, New Albany, Ind. 
The Purple Heart awarded to a Marine Corps hero, Lt. Col. Joseph P. McCaffrey, who was killed lead-
The Notre Dctme Alumnus 

ing a Raider Battalion on Bougainville in 1943, was presented to his nine-year-old nephew and name­sake, Joseph Patrick AfcCaffrey, son of the late Lt. Col. Hugh MCCOSTKY, who was also killed in the war. The ceremony was held on board the de­stroyer U.S.S. McCaffrey at Pier 26, Hudson River, New York City. 
7929 
Don J. Flunkctt, Biology Department, Xotrc Dame, Ind. 

From Don Flunkett: Here are some letters and news bits of interest to 1929. Rev. Theo. J. Mehling, C.S.C., president of Port­land Uniwrsity, >*Tites: "I have just been reappoint­ed for a second three-year term as president. Before being made president in 1946, I was dean of studies for eight years. The following members of tlie class of 1929 are on the faculty at Portland University: Rev. Regu H. Ritcr is head of the Philosophy De­partment. Rev. Comdius Hooyboer is a member of the English Department. Rc\\ George L. Dum is teaching philosophy and is active in the School of Music. He also has charge of a very fine cultural scries of lectiu-es and concerts. Re\'. John A. MoUer is head of the Department of Biology. Rev. William Con^lan is head of the Department of Mathematics. Rev. John W. Scheberle is head of the Department of English." 
Doc Dougherty \%Tites: "My wife and I dropped in on James *Red' Curry and family at Broad Lawn Harbor, Kings Point, Long Island, early in August. Red as you know is doing nicely in the real estate business. Red sees Jim O'Connor, Bill Cronin 
(N. Y.), and Jerry Crowley occasionally. 

"We also visited with Tom MahafTey and family. Tom is tht| father of three and is in business in 
N. Y- and lives at Scarsdale, N. Y. He sees John 
H. Flanagan, attorney of Ne*%-burgh, N. Y. Tom wotdd like to hear from John Dorgan and Ralph Smmennan. 
"Saw Joe Timlin who is in advertising and lives in Scarsdale. Lou Bestin (Louisville) is now worx­ing for Revere Copper and Brass and living in Manaroneck, N. Y. John Polisky, John Niemiec and Paul O'Brien make the Ohio Valley Notre Dame Club meetings regularly. Bill Ya^er, brother of Loa and Jack, is president of the club. Frauds Wallace, alumni president, also attends these gath­erings. 
"I missed Charicy E. McDermott at the reunion in the group of steel plant metallurgists and oper­ators including Walt Mulflur, Bill Johnson, Clyde Atdunaon and myself. I would like to know the whereabouts of Ftiil Tompkins and John Patrick O'Conner." 
Tony Kopcdcy (Lawndalc National Bank, Chicago) %%-rites: "My Corby Hall bunk-mate, Irv Corcoran, even though not present at the Oliver Hotel party when we needed a piano player, is still the big noise at the Acme Furnace in Chicago. Air condi­tioning needs in July kept him from attending the reunion. 
'*Bin Dowdall invited mc to see Niagara Falk on my 'second honeymoon,' so I may take him up on this in the near future. Saw Fred How at the I.A.C. here in Chicago some time ago. Fred can be reached at 4911 West Washington Blvd. I would like to hear from BiU Dondan of Colorado Springs." (Bill is with the Manufacturer's Services Co. and has a son enrolled at Notre Dame.) 
Saw Larry Stauder on the campus recently. He is using some special laboratory equipment developed by Efano Moycr, E.E. '29, who for the past year has been doing research and teaching at R.P.L Larry has been counselor for the active Notre Dame branch of A.LE.E. Recently I«arry was elected to oflke in the Catholic Forum, South Bend. Fraods Joaei is a charter member and past governor of the Forum. He or Larry would be glad to acquaint interested readers of the ALUMNUS with this Cath­olic activity. 
We regret to inform you of the death of 
C. Nianeyer, '29, who died Aug. 25. He is sur­vived by Mrs. Linus C. Niemeyer who lives at 222 
S. Market St., Ottumwa, la. The class of 1929 ex­tends oar unccrcst sympathies to Mrs. Niemeyer and had m month's mind celdirated on Linus' anniver­lary. 

Mickey McMahoa writes: "I was extremely pleased that so many of our class could attend the reunion and I only hope that even more will be able to bc: back five years from now. The picture I have in­cluding Walt Muiflur, Larry Moore, Bob McVety, Father Otie Windicster, Don Schettis, John Cush­man. Hank Bums and Doc Dou^crty, while not a photographer's dream, is one I hope can be used as a pattern for taking a duplicate of this group at our 25th reunion." 
Rev. Bernard McAvoy, C.S.G., wTites that he cele­brated the reunion Masses for deceased members of our class during the early part of August. 
Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bertsch on the arrival of a son, Robert Louis, born July 29. 
Twenty-five Masses have been celebrated by priests of our class for deceased members of 1929. If you wish to increase this number let me know. 
MIDSEMESTER REPORTS 
The Prof would like to have the following men 

turn in their written duties this week—the midsemes­
tcr pink slips will soon bc out: Pat Greene, Bill 
Dowdall, Roy Shuize, Art Morley, ^Villiam S. 
O'Connor, Elmo Moycr, Ed Garrity, Roily Schlager, 
Joe Fitzgerald, Tom Jorden and Frank Betting. 
WHAT ARE THE '29ERS DOING? 
John C. Murray^is president of the Murray and 

Co. Inc. (Management & Research Consultants) and 
is located at 7027 Merrill Ave., Chicago. He sends 
his best wishes to his '29 classmates and plans to be 
present at the 25th reunion. 
John W. Withey—is with the U. S. Veterans Ad­ministration in Grand Rapids. He was unable to get to our reunion. He can bc reached at 35 Home St., S. E. 
Maurice Feldman—writes as a civil and architec­tural design engineer (U. S. Engineers) from Louis­ville, Ky. Mail will reach him at 322 ^V. Broadway, where his two sons, Tony, 6, and Nick, 3, rule the household. 
WUiam T. Byrne—sends "Hello to All." He has been with the San Francisco School Department since 1930. Bill's duties include coaching, teaching physical education and hygiene and director of in­tramural activities. He plans to attend the 25th reunion. The Byme*s have two children and live at 875 - 34th Ave., San Francisco. 
J. Thad Heinlein—is manager of the Austin & Son Lumber Co. in Eric, Pa. The Heinleins have t^vo children and live at 44 W. 28th St. 
John J. Donahue—lives at 535 S. 49th St., Phila­delphia. He is with the Bureau of Reclamation. 
U. S. Dcpt. of the Interior, and has been electrical inspector at Grand Coulee Dam, Da%'is Dam and Hoover Dam. 
Joseph T. Bamett—is in the Insurance business in Ogdcnsburg, N. Y. The Barnetts have two children. Cacsarft S. Janeskeslu—is chief adult proba^on officer of South Bend and can be reached at the Court House. 
Rev. James F. Mulcairc—is pastor at St. John's, Hanover, 111. 
Edward G. Barch—Is assistant of the Social Secur­ity Administration in Akron, O. 
Daniel J. McNally, attorney for the Milwaukee Association of Commerce, resides at 611 N. Broad­way. 
Anthony J. De Dario—is an attorney in Elkhart, Ind. He has two children and is very active in the 
K. C.'s and alumni work. 
Paul D. Holabaa—rate engineer on special prob­lems for the Ohio Bell Telephone, Cleveland. The Holahans ar^t proud of their tackle prospect son, Daniel J. 
Bemie Hugger—is manager for the American Air­lines at Cincinnati. He is located at Lunkcn Air­port. 
Rocoo D. Perone—is division training supervisor for the AT&T and can be reached at 1538 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland. The Phones have three children. 
Paul H- Brokhage—is secretary and treasurer of the Blackford Glass Co. of Vincennes and can be reached at 537 Willow St. 
Helmer £. Heucr—is assistant pro at the Johnson Park golf course in Racine, Wis. 
John K. Rowland—is executive director of the St. Louis Regional Inter-American Center at 419 Olive Street. 
William G. Fitzpatrick-is an attorney in Detroit and has ofiRces at 2437 National Bank Bldg. 
John T. P. Burke—is teaching at Clinton High School (Mass.) and lives at 297 Chestnut St. The Burkes are the proud parents of four children. 
John D. Harrington—is a partner in George S. Olive & Co. (certified public accountants) of Indian­apolis. John writes that he was imable to attend the reunion because of conflicting engagements but is planning on the 25th reunion. The Harringtons have two children and live at 4104 Ruckle St. 
Leon \V. Archer—spends his time real estating in Denver. 
Rev. Norbert C. HofF—-former president of Carroll College, Helena, Mont., under Bishop Fin­nigan (former vice-president of N.D.) is a pastor in Butte, Mont. Father Hoff delivered the '29 bacca­laureate sermon. 
James C. Roy—is a law partner with Poland & Doirs at 75 Federal St., Boston. 
Don P. Alexander—sends his greetings from Colo­rado Springs, Colo. 
Cyril A. Jones—is supervisor for the Pennsylvania Department of Public assistance in Reading. Mail . will reach him at 919 N. Front St. Jim Brady—is general manager of station KIFI, Idaho Falls, Idaho. The Brad>*s have four children, all interested in radio and television. 
Theodore A. Wtz—is secretary of the old Pueblo Savings and Loan Association in Tucson, Ariz. Jim Keating—of South Bend is assistant U. S. district at­torney and has offices at 332 Federal Bldg. 
Joseph Kecfe—of 1616 Elm Road, Lakeland, Fla., is manager of the Dundee Citrus Growers Associa­tion. The Kecfes have five children and Joe is active in Rotary, Holy Name, and alumni work. 
Joe Angelino—Is a life insurance undenmter and in the real estate business in Buffalo, N. Y. You can find Joe at 578 West A\-e. Paul A. Brysslbout— architect. Bay City, Mich., is a member of the board of directors of the Michigan Society of Arcliitects. His office is at 1003 Washington Ave. 
Jim Digan—is president of the Logansport Foun­dry Industries, Inc., and president of the DIgan Sales Corp. at 2100 Erieave Ave., Logansport. 
Francis J. Haveriick—is an airline pilot and can be reached c/o Pan American Grace Airways, Lima, Peru, South America. 
Clet Schneider—is secretary of the Schneider Transportation Co. at 300 Kfarshall Bldg., Lake­wood, O. The Schneiders have four children and Clet is active in the propeller club of the U.S. and the N.D. club of Cleveland. 
Frank Smola—is educational director of the Na­tional Diury Council at 111 N. Canal St», Clucago. Bill \Vilbur—is division engineer for the C.&N.W. Railway in Green Bay, Wis. 
Leo Rees—is sales engineer for the Durotest Corp. of North Bergen, N. J. The Reeses have three children and live at 312 N. George St., Rome, N. Y. Ed Krick—is manager of the H. L. Green Stores in St. Paul, Minn. The Kricks have four children: Stuart, Edward Jr., Antoinette and Carolyn. Ed is on the board of directors. Twin Cities N. D. Club. 
An ultra-modern $12,500,000 expansion program has recently been completed by the Miller Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wis., under the direction of Fred Miller, president. The dedication was celebrated la the presence of state and city notables, as well as representatives from other Milwaukee breweries. 
Hugh McManigal, Miami, Fla., was here over the Tulane weekend. Hugh has two daughters, both married, and is the proud grandfather of one grand­child, with another grandchild due momentarily. 
Paul Bartholoaww and Fred Baer, '33, took part in a panel discussion sponsored by the St. Joseph County Le^ue of Women Voters, South Bend, at its first general meeting of the season. Paul*s topic was "Tools of Town Government" and Fred discus­sed local forms of government. Paul teaches politi­cal science at Notre Dame and Fred is city attorney in South Bend. 
Mmrray Gfcisgow, president of the Glasgow Brew­ing Co., Inc., Norfolk, Va., recently entertained about 80 men^rs of the crew of HMS Glasgow in the t ^ room of the brewery-^it was '^Glasgow Day*' in Glasgow. 
1930 
Harold E. Duke, 4030 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mrs. Louis Haslcy was honored at a meet-the­author party in the Aquinas Library and Book Shop in South Bend. Her new book, "Reproachfully Yours," has just come off the presses and is the first <»>lIection of her articles to appear In book form. It is published by Sheed & Ward. 
Dan Cannon reports both by letter and by word of mouth (he and the managing editor had two quick conferences in Ne*v York on Nov. 11 and 12) that plans for the 1930 reunion next June are prf>­gressing admirably. Dan expects, as this is written, to be up for the Southern Cal game on Nov. 26 and will at that time get together with Devcre Ftunkett, local class chairman, and the Alumni Office staff to do more planning. The heavy firing on arrange­ments and mailings will of course start after the first o! the year. 
But remember now—the dates are June 9, 10 and 
11. Round up your best pals and be sure they'll be here with you for that weekend. 
Walt Langford, head of the Department of Mod­ern Languages at the University, was guest speaker at a Knights of Columbus Communion Breakfast in Connersville, Ind. 
Fred Sduppman was elected president of St. Mary's alumni at the annual picnic of the organiza­tion in Fort Wayne, Ind. (Ed.*s note: We're not referring to St. Mary's College, Notre Dame.) 
Ed Coaroy, San Antonio, Texas, is executive vice-president of the Planning Board of. San Antonio, Texas, and Bexar County and as director of the Bureau of Governmental Research, which Is an ac­ti\*ity supported by the Planning Board to conduct research in problems of local government. 
1931 
Walter F. PhiHpp, 4 Kckwick Lane, Newton Square, P^ 

Rev. Thomas J. CnlhaBe, C.S.C., pastor of St. Helen's Church, Georgetown, Texas, has been unan­imously chosen a director of the newly formed Georgetown Community Welfare Association.- Pur­posc of the assficiation is to co-ordinate all relief organizations in the city so that there will be no duplication of charity. Father Culhane was also selected as a director of the newly formed Wil­liamson County Tuberculosis Society. 
The "Chicago Tribune" carried a picture with the caption, "Sons get football tips from famous dads."..Bert Metxgcc.and Hank. Bruder^ former Northwestern'back, were giving Bert, Jr., and Hank, Jr., some \*aluable tips. 
1932 
James K. Colliiis, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, O. 

From Jim Caffini: Bin Wain reports from behind the Cashier's desk of the Ohio-Merchants Trust Co. of Massillon in a manner that touched me deeply. He wrote: 
"My heart went out to you and the '32ers when I read your terrific *four-Iiae' account of the old men in our class in the Sept.-Oct. issue of the ALUM* NU5. The obituary did not show it, but I guess that old writing spirit has died. Otherwise they are all alive and kicking. 
"You have pnbablr heard that the NJ} . Glee Qub (of happy memory) gave a splendid perform­ance in Canton under the ausfuces of the Canton 
Club during Holy Week last April. One of our own Massillon boys, Dick Blaumoser, performed as soloist. The concert was well received but next time we hope to have the choice of a better date. 
**My job at the bank is still taking the majority of my time what with auditing, comptrolling and purchasing. Next week I hope to renew acquaint­ances with several '32 fellows as I am flying to Philadelphia to the national convention of the bank auditors and comptrollers. I am also president of the Holy Name Society here and recently organized a Catholic Action committee." 
Bart O'Hara brought me up to date on his activ­ities with a fine letter. After taking his law degree at Catholic University, he returned to Dcn\-er and has been practising law there since. He WSLS public administrator for several years, until 1943, when he became assistant U. S. district attorney. In 1947 he resigned that to concentrate on private practice. 
Bart is married and has five little red-heads, three boys—^Bartlcy, Daniel and TTiomas, and t%vo girls—^Halley and Kearin. 
He writes that John Humphries is ^vith Travelers Insurance, married and has four lovely children, one boy and three girls. Bart and John sec each other almost daily. Bart further \*TOte, 
''Tex Simmons, who still lives in Dallas, gets up to Denver during the summer. We alwa>-s have a splendid visit. Tex is married and at the last ses­sion had four children. His wife is a very cliarming Texas girl and we always enjoy the risit. 
"Riil Dimleavy was stationed here during the -wnr and when it was over he set up a law office in Al­buquerque, New Mex. He is now deputy attorney general of New &fexico with offices in Santa Fe. He is married and had t^vo children at the last reading. 
"Bill Vaughn lives in Denver now, married a Denver girl, and has four children. He has a uni­form business for nurses, chefs, etc., and I sec him at the N.D. club meetings regularly. 
"I am going to the S.M.U. game in Dallas and ^vill see Tex, and I hope many others, there. 1 have not been able to get to any of the reunions but I hope to get to the next one." Bart's home address is 2065 Fairfax St., Denver 7, Colo. 
Lieut Bob Lee is the legal ofEcer on the staff of the Chief of Na\'al Air Training, and is liring at 210 Payne Road, Warrington, Fla. He wTOtc in part, 
" I hit my 40th birthday last month, and it is hard to believe that all of us arc getting to be old timers. Our twin daughters are 13 now and in the eighth grade. 
''Things are going along pretty* well for me in the Navy, and the work is very interesting. I ex­pect to get a promotion soon 'which will be quite welcome. I travel around some on the job, getting to Washington, Chicago, ^femphis and Corpus Christ! regularly. 
"I helped entertain the NROTC bo>3 from N.D. ^vhen they were here this summer, and we also took in the N.D. Band concert when the boys ^verc here around Easter. Outside of that, I've had vcr>- little contact with N.D. people—and, as you can imagine, I read every ^vord in the ALUMNUS for news. 
'*\Vhcn I last saw my brother Maury in June, he and his fine family were in good health, and things ^vcre going fine for him in the law business. 
"Sorry I have not more news for you but I just found out that I am the only N.D. alumnus in northwest Florida. You might print that and maybe someone will pop up around here to prove it is not true." 
Ernie Hechinger, from his office irith the Central Architectural Iron Works, 4227 N. Knox Ave., Chicago, gives a fine report as follows: 
"Frankly, news regarding fellows in our class is about as scarce as com picker orders. For your information, I am purchasing agent of the above concern and also the Farm-Rite Implement Co. of Chicago, and we are in the farm implement business. Only I regret to advise that business at this writing is very, very slow. 

"I recently had a phone call from Bame>' Bern­hardt. He reports everything is fine and dandy in Sturgeon Bay, and is looking for four tickets to the Northwestern-Wisconsin game. No doubt, I'll see him o\-er that week-end. 
"I might also report that Bud Dynlewicz is going great guns with the Deep Rock Oil Co. and has recently been appointed their general advertising 
manager. I am also in correspondence with Benny Salvaty and Dick Roney, both of whom report busi­ness conditions very favorable, and I might also add that each has recently announced the arrival of his fourth child." 
Thank you, gentlemen, for those fine letters. May­be the idea will finally catch on and I shall hear from someone else before another issue goes to press. 
Congratulations to Bill Hall—he is the first mem­ber of the class to have a son enter the University as a student, according to all the information I have. 
Col. C. D. Jones has been transferred to Head­quarters, Sheppard Air Force Base, AVichita Falls, Texas. 
The Alumni Office is wthout the present address of several members of the class, and this information is desired. Anyone knoiving the address of any of the following is asked to send it to the Alumni Of­fice. They are, Louie Brcnnan, Bob Briggs, Jim Carmody, ^Villiam Cronk, George CulHnan, Frank Emerick, Tom Finnegan, Larry Fischer, Bill Fitz­gerald, Tom Gatcly, Bob Gerharz, Bill Glass (X^w), Bob Hartman, Arthur Hoctcl (Law), Gerry Hodges, Morris Hull, Klarty Kennedy, Jim Koons, John La-Dome, Bill I.angenbahn, Don ^fcAfanus, Frank Maas, Mylcs Kfullen, Maurice Neville, Louis Orgera (NL\), Mike Papas, Tom Rossie, John Rush, Bill Ryan, Ridiert Schneider, George Scclinger, Rabbi Maurice Stiskin, Domteo Sumabat (MA), Jim Wil­liams, ViUlle Willigan, and Aiiz El-Araj. Mail has been returned unclaimed from each of tlie above. 
Frank O'Malley, of the department of English in the University %vas one of the principal speakers at a luncheon discussion meeting of the Chicago Institute for Religious and Social Studies. 
His Holiness Pope Pius XII conferred the p^a l honor of domestic prelate on Rt. Rev. Msgr. Loras 
T. Lime, according to an announcement by the %Iost Rev. Henry P. Rohlman, archbishop of Du­buque, la. Monsignor Lane is vice-chancellor and defender of the matrimonial bond in the arch­
1933 
Joseph D. A. McCabe, Rosary College, River Forest, HI. 

From Joe McCabe: Dear '33s: Never saw such a group of bashftd guys! Look, if you*rc too modest to write me about your­self, send a few words about the other ND's you know. (Then they may Avrite about you, and we can fill this column with names instead of my type­writer's aimless prose.) I do have a few names this time for a change—not all '33s, of course, but in that neighborhood. The postcard program fell down, but I met a few people and heard about a few more. Here's hoping the next column will do better. 
Introit: Thought I'd put the spiritual ahead of the factual this time—more as a reminder to myself titan anyone else. November is the Poor Souls' month, and if you have the same trouble I used to have in remembering whose poor soul to remember, maybe you'd like to have a simple solution to the problem: offer all your prayers and intentions to our Blessed Mother and let her do the remembering. Tlicre's no one that can do it better! If you get ya\%'ned off at all these plugs for the poor souls, and wonder why the aitch they can't take care of themselves, I've re-phrased a well-known traffic safe­ty slogan to read like this: "Pray carefully—the soul you save may be your own." Not good, but maybe true. 
HEARSAY: Here's the result of a few chance meetings and conversations: Frank (Francis X.) Fal­lon has moved into a nice spot—litigation chief for one of the nation's big corporations . . . General Electric, I think. Spike McAdams and Bill Kirby are getting ne\\'spaper space out here in Chicago as representatives of Preston Tucker, the no-auto mag­nate. 
Doing a swell job, too. This is no plug for the nation's biggest former nickel-a-copy magazine, but they did have a swell profile on Mardiie Schwartz —a NDer makes tradition at Stanford. Good luck, Marchie—hope you beat 'em all, except the home 
team, of course. Speaking of Schwartz brings to mind Nordic Hoffman—who at last reports is stilll in Washington, representing the CIO. Talked with Tom (Kitty) Gorman shortly after the Tulane bofTo. Kitty s»ys he never saw any tesmi anywhere explode the way this year's club did in the first quarter against the Suthners, sah. He expressed his regrets, in which we joined, that it had to happen to Andy FQoey. But we were both consoled by the thought that it could have been worse—^Andy could have been head coach! 
Kitty is Chicago zone sales manager of the Chevro­let Division of General Motors . . . and is happy to be relieved of those Sunday morning blues connected with coaching jobs. Kitty has an eight-year-old daughter. Near him in OaJc Park lives Martie Lin­skey, who is in the advertising department of Sears Roebuck Co. in Chicago. Martie and Mrs. L. have four children. (His wife is a Rosary College grad, by the way—^Adv.) 
Another NDer Kitty sees often is Joe Thenng, who is a district manager for Chevrolet in Kitty's 7one. Norm Greeney met by chrjice in the Stevens Hotel not long ago, is associated with an industrial heavy equipment firm in Cleveland. Chatted with Ne3 Hnriey—wanted to get his opinion on the new morie, "Come To The Stable," as I had heard Neil had just bought a horse. In common with a lot of other ChiAlumni, Neil's planning to attend the Iowa game. 
Speaking of Chevrolet, Ben Salvaty just won one —^7,000 contestants in a raffle, and they pull Ben's name! He's parking it outside his home in Alham­bra, Calif. Ben is also a member in good standing in the New Baby club, as is Dick Roney. That makes four each for the Linskeys, SaK'at>-s and Ro­ncys. Dick is now eastern sales manager for the *TIant Production Directory/* a Conover-Nast pub­lication, and lives in Philadelphia. To wind the whole paragraph up, Ben is a West Coast repre­sentative of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Co. 
Another representative of the same firm is Bill Shakespeare, who used to pass and punt as well as his namesake from Ax-on wrote plays. Bill recently returned from the Caribbean, and will soon head for the Middle East. Business .. . no Bowl games in either of those spots. Heard an interesting locker-room chuckle about Terry Dillon. Seems Terry went to White Sulphur Springs recently to play a few rounds with his good friend, Sam Snead. (That's not the giggle—I understand they ARE good friends.) Terry got there bags, baggage and extra tecs—only to find Snead had left the day before. FORE! 
Us residents of Rivei- Forest saw Fred Snite's new bus rolling away for the south recently—first time Fred has gone all the way to Florida in it. We were speaking of parents-of-four up yonder: here's a top­per . . . Dr. Henry Asman, in Chicago to attend the American Surgeons' Convention, is a five-timer. Mrs. Asman gets her share of the credit for inc quintet too. of course. Henry does his surgeoning in Louisville, Ky. 
Jim Igoe is \rith Inland Lithographing Co. Jack Duffy ran a ffiotball special to the Purdue game from Long Beach, Ind. Ed Kelly is in the broker­age business in New York. Paul Host is wnth Wie­faoldt's stores in Chicago. "Goose" Gosselein is in the hotel business in Aurora, 111. Qayt Duerr lives in Hinsdale, HI., and is with Sears Roebuck. When you mention Ray Fox, you may safely think of the Fox Brewing Co.—and also, now the Patrick Henry Brewing Co., which I understand Fox has bought. 
Mea Culpa: After all my pleading for classmates to write me, I have to publicly confess the sin of overlooking a communication in the Vital Statistics department. Last Spring I got a notification from Cmdr. Bin H^wkcs announcing the birth of Susan Marie. She's of age now to snub me coldly for such neglect, but I'll make this apology, anyway—to her and her parents, Helen and Bill. Worst part of it is, her birthday's the same as that of my younger daughter, Erin—Feb. 20! 
Just got a letter from Bart O'Hara of Denver. He says he's going to be in Chicago in a few weeks —so perhaps the next column will have some news about Points West. Bart is lawyering in the Symes Building in Denver, if you're as anxious as we were to hear from him. 
• Ray Gcsger is in the novelty-calendar printing business in New Jersey; Bud Groves is with the FBI, 
and is it true that Ed Rhatigan is now managing a large convalescents' home in New York? Heard something like that about Ed—and that it was a good spot. Heard also that John Mature, of some 
years behind us, is glad to be back in Aurora, 111., after spending some time in Lake Geneva . . . the country life is not for him, and he found business a little off up there. Pete Trolio is an architect, and Frank Prichacck is with Universal Wine & Liquor Co. Ed Ryan is with the insurance plan division of General Motors. 'N that's all for now, folks! 
One last ave before the vale . . . hope yousc guys who started saying the Rosary daily during October will keep it up No\*ember, December, and always. It's like taking vitamins .. . it doesn't take long, doesn't taste bad, and there's a lot of unseen good gained by it! 
Theodore Buczynski, Chicago, is a substitute teacher in the Chicago public high schools, and is preparing to take the teacher examination in Polish for the same schools. Ted received his M.A. in Polish from DePauI University and an M.A. from the University of Chicago. 
Ed Sargus, Bellairc, O., is now attending law school at Notre Dame and resides in South Bend with his wife and two-year-old child. They reside at 325 Lincoln Way West. 
John McNamara, director of personnel and pub* lications for the school city in South Bend, gave the first in a series of talks before the local Catholic Fonun. His subject was "The Catholic Teacher in the Public School." The talks will stress the role of Catholics in different professions. Larry Stauder, '29, secretary of the Forum has announced that "The Catholic Home and the Delinquent Child" will be discussed by a panel of Tom Tear­ney. '42; AI Doyle, '27; Anthony Kuharich, '35, and Dr. Sherman Egan. Aaron Huguenard, '22, will discuss "The Catholic in the Legal Profession" and Rev. Michaal Mathis, C.S.C., ^viU end the series with a sttmmar>- of the obligations and opportunities of the Catholic professional man. 
7934 
Edward F. Mansfield, 6375 Glenwood, Chicago 26, lU. 
From Ed ^fansfield: 

"Mr. SRO of '49," Bob Cahill. knee-deep in thanks and threats this snake-pit period at the football ticket office, won't like to hear this, but it docs appear that we'll have to bugle for another reunion at once. That's the only way we can bring in another stack of news notes from men of *34. Chairman Cahill, can you hear us behind that pile of mail? 
Business at the mailbox has been bad since the last time page forms were locked gently around your obedient servant's prose. We are particularly anxious to hear from that part of the roster absent from the reunion and the mailbag. 
Through such divers devices as the Indiana and Tulanc games, a convention encounter, phone calls, a trip to Louisville, and a pair of news letters, the following words have been lined up for you thb month: 
The two games brought not one encounter with 

a man of '34. Maybe Iowa and USC will bring 'em out. Ed Stephan, '33, "Scholastic" editor of our time, was about the only first cousin of '34 to \vhom we gave the Father Farley salute. 
A Louisville trip did allow a pleasant chat with Carl Kmmerer, a journalism graduate actually still doing business as such on 3-to'midnight hours. Carl is a ten-year veteran at the esteemed "Courier Journal," now resplendent in a plant that must be the finest in the land. He has a transferred South Bend wife and a two-year-old son, and reports that brothers Mark and Leo of earlier classes are with Kingston Products in Kokomo. Carl reported a minimum of activity with the fine N. D. Club of Kentucky because of his night hours, but he had good words for their good works—particularly their trips to N. D. games for Louisville orphans. 
Phone calls failed to reach Bill Vccneman, former golf team member now heading the George Gould wholesale drug firm in Louisville. Bill's dad has been headlined frequently since the passing of Col. Matt Winn, Mr. Derby. Mr. Veeneman, Sr., is now chairman of the American Turf Association smd its co-run Churchill Downs group, and was fre­quently quoted during the selection period leading to Bill Corum's new job in Derbytown. 
At the first Bear-Cardinal game in Comiskey park, I almost bumped heads in the low Sox dug* out runway with Ray Morrissy of Delavan, Wis. He was looking for the Bear dressing room, and such a veteran Sorin porch playmaker would undoubt­ediy be loaded with x-and-o battle blueprints for guaranteed TD's. 
Welcome copy came from County Kennedy, area surrounding New Hampton, la., was penned by William J. Kennedy, Bunk the Barrister. He warned all traveling law men that he would come a-dustin' into Dallas for the SMU round-up. 
In the sports sections some few of you may read, you have no doubt seen that Jim Leonard has a "representative" team at Villanova, and that Hughie Devore is doing well against a tough line* up of St. Bonaventure foes. 
A quick encounter with Jack Lacey didn't lead to any '34 news, but it did show that Jack is busy \vith insurance, very happy with his new family, and keeping the lichens off' his colonel's wings with air reser\'e flying. 
The American Gas Association convention at the Palmer House led to pleasant tones from a voice long unheard. Owner of the voice: Stew Oabom, ex-New Yorker now in Shrcvcport with the Texas-Eastern Transmission Corp. (big pipe-liners). Sorin Stew is married, has one child, and has seen Frank Nary, Judge John Logan, Jack Hagen, and Jack Quirk in the recent past. Smiling Stew looks good, likes Shrcveport, likes his job. He also liked his lunch—a birthday meal. On the somber side, he felt that many of the class would be saddened to hear that his brother. Phidell, died last year. 
Dr. Robert Nachtwey, now on the Mayo staff, will undoubtedly hear from Stew's brother, one* year N. D. man now doctoring at Rochester, Minn. (Bob, how about neivs from medics Gannon, Gab­reski. Murphy, Tobin? See the reunion story for Kenney's latest). 
Osbom would like to play pen pal with P^ul Kane, Johnny Carr, and Bill Mackey a> a starter. He's at 216 Arthur Drive, Shreveport, La. 
And now the Smiling Irishman! Last month, Jim Fitzpatrick was a big help with a fine letter from Paris (Seine et Oise, that is). Now another Fitz, Hugh Fitzgerald, brighten's the secretary's mail-Iess gloom with good copy from 2 Rector St., New Yuk-New Yuk. He reiterated his disappoint­ment over missing reunion trips with BUI Shdls, Jim Reville, Harry Burchcll. 
The ex-Wrangler and suave debate master was last at Notre Dame in a popular type of blue and gold uniform in '44. He's no\v back with Coudert Brothers law plant after four Navy years. From here on it's body-type by Fitz-Hugh: 
"I had four full years in the Navy, from '42 to *46, and wound up in command of an LST in the Pacific. I remember meeting Dan Brick in Pearl Harbor in January, 1945. . . . John Montedonico at Iwo Jima (light commander in cJiarge of the Moore, a destroyer escort) ... . 
"Back here I see Tom Dalton once in a while— although I'm ashamed to say not of late. You all know about his condition, I'm sure. Oh, yes, I used to see him, too, in the old days. We spent many happy hours together in Miami in 1943. J saw Bob Jaynes regularly in Miami while he was in training—but not a word since. Do you have any idea ^vherc he is? [We'd be glad to get an address for Bob; haven't had one for several years 
—Ed.] 
"About those three children—I married a wonder­ful Florida girl in 1942. She and the first t^vo waited out the latter part of the war with her folks in the land of sunshine. We have one boy, 5J4> a- candidate for the Wranglers if ever I saw one. 
"I am all talked out. You are doing an excellent job in your column; the "Alumnus" is well worth while. (I couldn't break up a fine sentence like that—Sec.) If you know of any nice small com* munities that need a good laivyer, keep me in mind, vfili you? Crowds and commuting have lost their appeal—if they ever had any." 
That is a helpful letter. See how it's done, chums? 
As a re^vard for spelling out the words this far, here are new addresses for your Christmas cards. Use them for a letter, huh? 
George J. Blaine, Butler High School, Butler, 
N. J. . . . Emmctt V. Conkling, 8421 Lock Raven Blvd., Towson, Md. . . . Thranas C. David, 126 Hudson, PineviUe, La. . . . Rmd l J. heamaxd, 37 Clonmvor Terrace, West Orange, N. J. . . . Nidnbs P. JjAatM, 5¥XV» FnuiUia, Los Aageks. . . . Juki L. Rmd , R No. 5 Box 465-D, Eadiaata WaU, San Jow, Calif. . . . C F. SansviOe, 302 Meeken St., South Orange, N. J. . . . Jokm E. Toliin, 106 Lansing St., Madison, Wis. 
Don't f(»gct to talk about yourself in writing to the ez-Snin ni^t watchman, now your mesage center chief. Where else can you write to 540 classmates for three cents? See you 'round. 
Fatlicr Bcnurd Skaaley moved from his post ia Strool. S. D., to St. Patrick's Church in Lead, 
S. D . St. Pat's is the second largest parish in the diocese and has just recently opened a high schooL 
J. AHiert Saitk, vice-prendent, trust officer and a director of the Fidelity Trust Co., was appointed a member of the Indianapolis Redevelopment Com* mission. Al has three children. 
Clyde Lewis was on the radio **To«m Meeting of the Air" on Nov. 8. The subject of his talk was "Should Communism be Outlawed in the United States?" As national commander of the VFW, Clyde was in South Bend and at Notre Dame for the Indiana game weekend. A glunpse of him was also caught at the North Carolina game in New York. 
Frank Roily, '37 class secretary, reports recent contact with Dr. F ^ Sartontto of the W. A. Cleary Co., New York City. Frank and Paul work and reside in the same buildings. 
1935 

Franldyn C Hochrdtcr, 1327 Pcntwood 
Rd., Baldmore 12, McL 

The motor is humming, the wheels are moving! Bin Ryan and Joe (Fat) Lyndi were out to the campus in mid-November for a general discussion of 1935 reunion plans. They're the boys, you'll recall, who are going to carry the local burden for you. 
Bill and Joe went back to tou-n pledged to get the reunion program all lined up, as to planning, that is, by the first of the year. Then, they'll start feeding you nisuling pieces in early January. One of the first of these pieces will be a roster of the class, with current addresses, for everybody. 
Hochrciter got sunk in a sea of gold braid at the time of the Navy game in Baltimore—he's presi­dent of the Baltimore N.D. Club, you'll remember —and hasn't been heard from since. But we guar^ antee that he'll be dredged back into action for the next issue of the "Alumnus." Meanwhile, carry on, especially by \V3Y of urging your special pals in the class to meet you at Notre Dame on June 9, 10 and 11, 1950. 
Father Vincent ThUman, C.S.C., pastor of St. Augustine's parish. South Bend, was elected presi­dent of the Clergy Conference of the Midwest on Negro Welfare at the recent semi-annual meeting held at St. Edward's parish, Cleveland, O. 
John T. LaForge, Jr., has just finished as president of the National Renderers' Association. He has been in the rendering business for 20 years, associated with his father in the John T. LaForge Co., Free­port, 111. He is also a director of the National Hide Association and has been president and director from the fifth regional area of that association for the past several years. 
1936 

Josci^ F. Mansfield, 349 Weaver St., ILF J>. 4, Greenwich, Conn. 
Joe Sdraiidt is associated with the Greshoff Ad­vertising Agency, Inc., 406 East 149th St., New-York 55. 
Jadt Joyce, formerly of Chicago, now resides at 6754 Richard Ave., North College Hill, Cindnnati 31, O. 
Joe McGrath is teaching in the University of Washington in Seattle while working for hi» doc­torate. 
Fete Nemeth has resigned as supervisor of the vocational rehabilitation area of the state depart­ment of education and has f^Kned offices for the practice of law at 201 Tower Building, South Bend. He has two children. 
Heary PDJann is personnel director for the Tbor Corporation (electrical alliances), ChJcs^o. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1937 
Frank J. Rcilly, 1651 Metropolitan Ave, New York City 62, N. Y. 
From Frank J. Retlly: 

Although mail has been non-existent of late—ap­parently the tlircc cent stomp went out with gas rationing coupons—I have been Iuck>- in seeing a few of the members of the class. They also passed on ^vord of some of the others. Jack Gillespie of ^Vest­
field, X. J., for instance, has been by a few times. He brought tidings of himself and others of our class­mates. Jack has just been appointed secrctarj- of the United States Cuban Sugar Council, and is as­sociated ^vith Ivcy Lee & T. J. Ross, New York publicity counsel. Jack had previously been with Merck & Co., Rahway, N. J., where he %%'orked in tlie publicity department. Jack, as was mentioned «arlicr, lives with his ^^•ife and two daughters in their new home in Wcstfield, N. J. 
Paul Biagionc was recently spotted on one of this <at>'*s streets recently. Paul having been transferred from the Chicago office of Dancer, Fitzgerald, Sam­ple to the New York headquarters of the firm. 
Paul thought the assignment was temporarj* but now finds he will be here permanently. He is reported to iiavc bought a home in nearby Englcwood, N. J. Paul is continuing his work as a copy^vxitcr—on one of the soap accounts, I believe. 
Our Mr. Gillespie is also the source of some in­formation on Paul Foley, another copy\%Titer, or is it account executive by now? At any rate, the stor\­has it that Paul, who is with ^facManus, John and Adams, Detroit, is writing the copy for Cadillac ad­vertising, which is a most likely place for a former *'Scholastic" editor to wind up. 
Anotlier recent visitor was Jade AValsh, who makes his home in this hamlet. John Judge, who has been vith the Better Business Bureau of New York since 1945, is living in Peter Cooper Village, Xcw York, the abode of Vince Haitnctt, among otiiers. Jack is married and has a five-month-old daughter. He reports seeing Bill Foley, who commutes bet^vecn his New York apartment and Washington job as coun­sel for the Small Business Committee of the House 
-of Representatives. Another Washingtonian from the class of 1937 is Joe Loftus. According to Jack "Walsh, Joe is teaching at Catholic University, where he received his Ph.D. Jack told me of attending "Mass one morning at his parish church, the other two people present in the church being Vince Hart-nett and Maxk Lonergan, who works in tlie neigh­borhood. 
Frank Carroll of printing ink fame recently was in South America on a business trip. He was to visit the cities of Cali and Bogota in Colombia, Lima, Peru, and Quito, Ecuador. The visit, I un­
•dcrstand, was to last about a month. I haven't had a chance to speak to Pinky lately, but I presume he is still living in Hasbrouck Heights, X. J. I be­lieve earlier in the year he visited Mrs. Carroll's liome in Salina, Kans. 
Father Joe English, about whose elevation to the Maryknoll House in New* York, you read in the last issue, called the other day. He seems to be doing very well, the promotion being taken in Joe's calm, modest style. 
Another of our classmates in the clergy-. Father 
—OoiiairF;—KTHy,-0:FAfr,-^-hom you all remember as Bob Kelly of Pittsburgh, returned from his as­signment in Rome earlier in the summer. AVc had a nice \isit with him. He returned to Europe in mid-September, following an illness which had him con­fined to the hospital for about 10 days. 
On my v^'ay home the other night I ran into Ed "Hayt, whom I see too little of, even though he is a meigUMr. Ed and family: one boy, one girl, are moving to Fairlawn, N. J., f^Iy soon. He told me he was completing bis thesis for his master's de­gree in business administration. Ed has been plug­ging away at night school pretty regularly since his return from service. His present work is with the «:q>ort department of Vick Chemical Co. 
Vince Hartnett continues to do his free lance -writiDS, I hear aod sec. He's also added lecturing to his list of things to do, recently speaking in St. Louis, mnd Kheduled to discuss '*Reds in Radio" before one ol the local councils of the Knights of Columbus. As I mentioned earlier Jack Walsh has pat me h^ t to Vince*s activities, since Jack and Vince are neighbors and see each other rather fre­quently. 
Justin McCann is still in the trade publishing field, devoting most of his attention to the interests of **Homc Furnishings Merchandising." I spoke with him on the telephone not too long ago. That lunch date we hope to have is still to materialize. ' 
On a golf outing during September I ran into Bill Huisking, brother of Ed and the late Frank of our class. Ed's whereabouts are somcv%'hat of a mystery to me, although occasionally I bump into him at drug, chemical or toilet goods affairs. 
Members of the class for whom changes of ad­dress have been recorded recently include: Rev. Wil­liam C. Kunsch, who switclicd from Chicago to Loras College, Dubuque, la.; Dr. Paul F- Mudler from 214 E. 45th St. to 4329 Park Ave., Indianapolis; Nicholas P. Romanko from Perth Amboy to 6 Rut­gers St., New* Brunswick, N. J.; and Cyril Stroker from Baltimore to Box 775, Salisbury, Md. Cy, in­cidentally, still continues with Waterman Steamship Co., New York, and is doing very well the grape vine has it. Dr. Paul Mueller, mentioned above, made a quiet departure from this city; the last I heard he was at New York Hospital. Maybe he will write and give us a full account of his present setup. 
Jack Hurlej' called on me one day during the sum­mer when I v%'as on vacation or out of tlie office at some affair, wiiich is the last word I've had on the boy. He's still with G.E. in Schenectady. 
Herb Kcnyon is representative for the Associated Hospital Service of New York with his office at 20 East First St., Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Herb lives at 26 Tappan Landing Road, TaiT>'town, N. Y. 
1938 
Charles M. Callahan, Sports Publicity Department, Notre Dame, Ind. 

With tliis issue, Chariie Callahan, publidtor ex­traordinary and super traveler, takes over as sec­retary for the Class of 1938 replacing Hal AVilliams, who is in Germany for the "Baltimore Sun." Tak­ing a few minutes from his strenuous job of keep­ing the 1949 football team undefeated (up to nov%'), Charlie says: 
Tlircc hours hence, according to the emi­nent William Dooley, managing editor of this sheet, will be the deadline for all material to go into this issue. Tlierefore, dear classmates, you can see that Tm no more ahead of myself than I was almost 15 years ago when I used to be 10 minutes late to morning classes and five minutes tardy to afternoon gatherings. 
For this particular issue, I am merely going to \mte at random with the hope of getting enough copy to beat the deadline. By the time I have to write some jottings for the next issue, the 12-15 hour a day routine demanded of one trying to handle the chores of publicizing the Notre Dame football team vrill be over . . . and perhaps I can produce a creditable column. I say "perhaps." The rest is up to you fcllov%-s. If you have some nev%-s, of yourself and others of the *38 brigade, send it to me at the Sports Information Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Meani%-hile, v%-e'll all say a prayer that the noted journalist, Harold A. Williams, Jr., does not stay too long on his assignment as foreign correspondent in Germany for the "Baltimore Sun." His wife, whom I saw in Baltimore at the time of the Navy game, joins in this wish. 
You know, I'm really trying to be helpful to these Williams people . . . what between trying to take over this column for Hal and attempting to tell the nation's press about the quarterbacking genius of little brother Bobby. 
Since it Is doubtful if any other member of our class has had a younger brother achieve the fame of Bob Williams, I will take a couple of lines to tell you about him. And a quick description, un> derstandable only to *38crs, would be to say that he's pretty much a carbon copy of Hal, except in physique and athletic ability. Bob has a bit of an edge in the latter two departments. It may be of interest to record Coach Frank Leahy's statement on Bob: **I wouldn't trade him for any college quarterback in America today." And remember that Hal's little brother has one more year of compe­tition. 
Jack Zerbst, on a three-month \*acation from his position in Brazil with the Union Carbon and Car* bide Corp., was a campus visitor this summer. He's married to a girl from Baltimore and they have one child. During the early part of the war, Jack was in the FBI and then finished up as a Navy officer. 
Out on the west coast, I saw Charlie Osborne, a lawyer, Ed Tobin and Jerry Kane at the Washing­ton game. Charlie was general chairman of a com­bined Notre Dame-Washington alumni dinner the night before the contest and did a v%-onderful job on arrangements. Jerry, secretary of the club, was a member of bis committee. 
Jolumy O'Connor, Indianapolis, was one of, I imagine, many '38ers at the Purdue game in La­fayette, Ind. I mention John, now a prospering Indianapolis attorney, because I saw him. 
The Sunday morning following the Tulane game, I saw Jim Carson, with the tclcplione company in Indianapolis, for a couple of minutes before grab­bing a train to Chicago. Wliilc in Chicago that day I bumped into Eddie Brennan, the old infield aspir­ant on Jake Kline's ball team. Eddie is now an advertising salesman in Chicago. He's one of the few single men left. Brennan has a companion, Iiow­ever, in a fellow Chicagoan, Jack Anton. The Deacon is a bank vice-president and his office is in the MertJiandise Mart. Since I'm talking about single men, I should mention Dr. Dan Monaghan, of Denver. I see Dr. Dan almost every weekend for he makes almost every game on the football schedule. 
TtMD Gorman, the old Badin Hall prefect, who is nov^r another Chicagoan. vcas a visitor with his wife at the Tulane game. Dan Gibbs, ex-pole vault­er and cx-Holyoke, Colo, (but now Chicago), was at the Notre Dame Club of Michigan City, Ind., golf party this summer. 
In New York, at the North Carolina game. I saw Bud Kolp and also Joe Callahan and his bride. Joe was married on the campus (Log Chapel) last spring with my wife and me as the attendants. I was very happy to help Joe along in taking the big step. He v%-as very helpful to me during the years 1934-38; Some of you may recall that Joe was a "magna cum laude" student and it was my good fortune in those classes in which the seating was arranged alphabetically to be stationed beside him. 
Kfany of you are knowledgeful of the fact that Leo Wddt met an unfortunate death early in the war, when his bomber crashed in the South Pacific. Therefore, it will be of interest to class members to hear of the recent wedding of his widow, Fran­ces Lapp Welch, former St. Mar>''s girl, to a Frank Johnson, of Washington, D. C. The mar-rix^e ceremony was performed by the Rev. Charles Carey, CS.C. 
And that is that for this month. 
Bob Holtz is with the Martin Band Instrument Co., Elkhart, Ind. 
Tom Radigan, Gary, Ind., was recently appointed police comissioner of that city. Tom is managing the family furniture store after finishing in law at In­diana. University. He has four children. 
Frank Co^im-e is teaching at the College of Pharmacy, Loyola University, New Orleans, and is doing work during the summer at the University of Colorado toward his Ph.D. He has just become registered as a pharmacist in Louisiana and has purchased part interest in a drug store in New Orleans. 
Way back on Aug. 10, Tom Sheils, 6000 Sun­set Blvd., Hollywood 28. v,,Tote to Hal \Mlliams as follows: 
**I recently returned from a flying trip to N. Y., Cleveland and Chicago. I had business in N. Y. and Chicago, but my stop-off in Cleveland was for only one reason—to see old Hook Ker^in, his lovely wife, Alice, and their three children, two gals and one boy. Hook is fine. Still living there in Shaker Heights and still with Thompson Products. It was good to see him again, and he gave me a blow-by­blow account of the reunion last year which I was unable to attend. 
"Saw Gene Vaslctt here in Hollywood some time back. He looked good and has been living in La­guna. He was planning to move iip here to L. A. and was going to call me when he did. However, I haven't heard further from him as yet. 
**Ed Kxvanan^ is doing a Jimmy Stewart on us and after all these years is taking uto himself a bride, a gal from South Bend whom I haven't bad the pleasure of meeting as yet. The wedding will be on Sqit- 3. I'm hoping to get back for the gala affair. I know Hook is planning to be there. . . . 
"As for me I am still in the music business. I have my own office now out here in suny California. It's what is known as a personal management set­up. I handle The Modcmaires, Clark Dennb sind others. I'm not exactly getting rich, but as you may remember it's the kind of work I like and this California climate is great for my boys. Oh yes, I forgot to mention I have three boys, Tom, Jr., Peter and Johnny." 
1939 
Vincent DeCourscy, 1917 Elizabeth, Kansas City 2, Kans. 

From Vince DeCoursey: The response to last month's card appeal for news was not exactly overwhelming, but at least did draw some information that would have not been forthcoming without them, so when you get the little yellow card sit down that evening and drop us a line; without news there can be no col­umn. 
First it is with regret that wc received the news from Bill Dooley that Carl Sabo had passed away, Sept. 12, at Riverside, Calif. The list of those in our class who have gone grows alarmingly long and it might be a suggestion worth considering to have some sort of memorial 5cr\'ice at the Communion Sunday in December for those who are no longer with us. 
From an old letter-writing acquaintance, Afrs. Tom Clarke of Des Moines (mother of Ed Clarke Avho was killed in the Pacific) we had a very wel­come letter a few days ago, with some much appre­ciated kind words. Mrs. Clarke reported that Ed's body was reburied in June with his brother. Father John Clarke, officiating and blessing the grave. There was a request as to the whereabouts of Jules Tons­meire, whose last reported address wc have was 69 Kenwood Road, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y. We too would like to hear from JuHe; there's a boy who really gets around. 
As an aside to those wives who read tliis col­umn and wonder why there is no news of the hubby and his friends may we offer a little suggestion— inspired through reception of a letter from Mrs. Carl Fricke, Jr. Carl is one of those who had com­pletely dropped from the sight of this column and glad it is that we can welcome him back home, although it took the time and trouble of his wife to resurrect him. Now for a little pica to those wives abo\"e mentioned—when you find time (my wife chuckles) cither prod the old boy or take pen (make him use a typcu-riter) and drop a few notes as to where, what, and who. The more information the better—wc need news. 
But back to Mrs. Fricke, a resident of 6340 Mid­dleton Street, Huntington Park, Calif, (someone asked for the address a few months ago)—who brings much in the way of information. The Fricke fam­ily has two future Notre Damcrs keeping things churned up. Carl is selling paper (Taverncr and Fricke) and picking oranges. Dick O'Melia was on temporary duty at the Marine Air Base at El Toro and had dinner with the Frickes; Dick was at the time awaiting a fourth child and probably has that third daughter by this time. Dick is still practicing law. Geoi ^ Meeker, *40, has four sons (tic with yours truly), and is in business with the Meeker Land Co. Bob Kieman is living at Corona Del Mar. Fred R. Stubbins, Jr., wife and three-year-old son are living in San Diego, where Fred is selling radio advertising. 
So much for this time. Let's get some information ill—after the games this fall you certainly have had conversation with somebody, so let the rest of va know about it. 
John Sullivan announces the opening of his own law ofHcc for the practice of law at 832-835 Paul Brown BIdg., 818 Olive St., St. Louis 1. 
Edwin Pick has collaborated with another lawyer and two members of the law faculty of the Uni­versity of Wisconsin in writing a new book entitled "Wisconsin Practice Methods." The 1,400-pagc vol­mne is a "how-to-do-it" manual, outlining proce­dure for meeting everyday legal problems in Wis­consin. 
Jim Raaf was visiting at the University over the Tulane game weekend. He is on leave from his business with International Machinery Co., Bolivia, S. A., and is visiting in the country with his family. 
Bob Schirf is an engineer with the Layne-NortH­west Co., Milwaukee, where he is in charge of the pump division. He just purchased a new home and moved in with his family Nov. 1. 
Dr. Jim Johnson has opened offices for the prac­tice of medicine limited to orthopedic surgery and fractures at 620 Exchange National Bank Bldg., Colorado Springs, Colo. 
7940 

Robert G. Sanford, 1103 £. Kensington 
Blvd., Shorcwood, Wis. 

Bob Sanford, recent father—again—writes that plans are perking merrily for the 10th reunion of the class on June 9, 10 and 11. In the next is­sue of the **Alumnus" he will announce tentative plans for the weekend, the name of the local chair­man in South Bend and the personnel of various committees. It goes without saying that Bob will welcome volunteer assistance. Let him know that you will help, especially in the matter of rounding up attendance. 
And, right now, start writing to your special pals in '40, urging them to get together with you for the big weekend. This will of course be the first reunion of the class, since the war took away any possibility of a five-year reunion in 1945. 
Start beating the drums! Paul Glass, Los Angeles mortician, visited the campus on Oct. 31. He is planning to return ffor the reunion. 
Bob Mahoney and Jim DaskalofF, '49, have an­nounced the formation of a partnership for the prac­tice of law. They will have offices at 207 Polcdor Bldg., South Bend. 
Bill O'Brien is \-icc-presidcnt of the C.M.A.C. Corporation, 50 Church St., New York City 8. Until recently. Bill resided in Chicago. 
J94I 

John W. Patterson, Jr., 5530 Rarlington Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Jerry O'Dowd, Fort Wayne, Ind., was chairman of the credentials committee for the national Young Democratic convention held in Chattanooga, Tenn., Nov. 17-19. 
Don Tiedemann has a new position in the invcst­law division of the general counsel's office of the New York Life Insurance Co. in New York City. The Tiedemanns also announce the birth of their third child, a daughter, Ann, on Oct. 23. John MacCauIey and his wife were the Godparents. Don had run into Milt ^Mlliams and reports that Milt is with the Arabian-American Oil Co. 
Don is astivc in the Glee Club of the New York ND Club, along with Dr. Bill Qark, '41, who, with Don, lives in Tuckahoc, N. Y. 
1942 

William £. Scanlan, Pullman Trust & Saving Bank, 400 E. 111th St., Chicago 28, 111. 
From Scoop Scanlan; Hats off to the Class of '42. According to a re­cent survey conducted by Louis F. Buckley, *28, our class topped all the others in the amount of news contributed during the sLx-year period — October, 1943 to June, 1949. 
Communications have been falling off a trifle but now that the post-war relocation, marriages, etc., have just about settled things, let's resume where we left off and get back into the swing of things. This record is certainly a tribute to all the '42ers, and Mrs. Lashbrook, for the faithful wo^k during that period. So, let's hear from you all—the address is up yonder: 
Let's start off this issue with a communique from Tom Fowen, now of the "CMc^o Tribune" and you'll note he is apartment hunting: 
"Phoned Paul Neville tonight and he says he's holding up under the strain of railroad tr^s, pull-mans, Friday press parties, Saturday pressbox scram­bles and Monday quarter-backing on Sundays—all of which goes with his new job as sports editor of the "South Bend Tribune." No ulcers yet, but Paul says he mmy get them from the many requests for tickets from classmates, ^n l says Us personal ticket allotment is no larger than any one else's, just enou ^ to carry his own personal load. Visited Neville and hh wife, Lil, at their new home on South Bend Ave. and got a look at Pete. Wasn't able to attend the christening but did Godfather to David Condon's Kathleen here recently. I thou^t I did pretty well through the ceremony and even translated some of the Latin for the Godmother. 
"Neville tells me Dick Lajoi's brother was at the Indiana game. Misfortimately, I've been working foodiall week-ends and missing the South Bend re­unions. Had a wedding invitation from Eddie Hoff who was getting married Oct. 22 in West Allis, yfis. Met his bride-to-be at the Old Timers' game last spring. Missed a chance to have a party with Enunctt Wri^t and Don Hosaa and their Mrs. re­cently, but think my rain check is still good. Had dinner with Jblm Hboan and family recently. He didn't know we were in Chicago and it was a case of word getting around and our finally getting to^ gether. Each thought the other was still working in Pittsburgh. John's working for Chicago Blower. Add similarity: John Spedit stopped by the sports desk one day and asked me what I was doing here. I answered wt h the same question and it developed we've both been working in Tribune Tower for some time. 
"Have had several calls from Dick McHu ^ from Manhattan. Missed a chance to accompany hiin to the Purdue game. 
"Saved the best item for last. Got myself engagcft and am apartment himting. Getting married Feb. 18 at St. Adrian's. Her name is Irene Stachura. 
At the Chicago Notre Dame club golf outin? some weeks ago I ran into Don Hogan, and Bill Hickey. Don said Willie Piatt is studying engineer­ing at Armour Institute." 
From Seattle, Wash., came an invitation from Rabbi Albert Flotkin to attend a wedding to Miss Sylvia Pincus. Sorry we couldn't make it. 
Looks like weddings are in order; I had a nice letter from the newlywe<!s John F. Dinges* who are now liWng at 253 Park Drive, Boston, Mass. 
IN AIEMORIAM Jane Pilarski, secretary to Bill Dooley, wrote that word had been received of the death of Francis £ . Buckley, ex-42, of Saranac Lake, N. Y. He is sur­vived by his wife at 2 Charles Street in that city. We were sorry to hear that news and hope anyone in that vicinity will take the opportunity to pass on a word of comfort to Mrs. Buckley. 
In Davenport, la., there is a new accounting finn established . . . Janes Fatrid Doyle and John Em­mett Kecnan. They are located in the Davenport Bank Bldg. 
Well, the time is set for news from Mrs. Lora Lashbrook of the lawyers, '42 version: 
For the information of Mr. Scanlan and others, I have not been associated with the Notre Dame "lawyers" since last year, but since I have been invited to oontrihute to this issue, I shall add that news I have had, and say a fond "farewell" to the **AInmntts" and the alumni at the same time. 
If it is true that "no news is good news," then I may begin by reporting that all the lawyers of the 1942 class are highly successful. I telephoned the local barristers and they knew even less than I about their classmates, therefore the report will be short. 
Bin Honnski reports that hu house is full of feminine influence, and that it takes a full time practice to keep them going. He has two little girls. 
Al Cholis is still holding the whip over the local landlords and is doing some practice at the same time. He is still a handsome bachelor. 
Joe AfiUer is devoting full time to his teaching duties on the campus and doing a good job, I hear. The last time I saw Ernie Timpani he too, was **profe»soring." 
Bob BfiDer and Art Diamond have a flourishing practice in South Bend in the Lafayette Building. Bob was married last June to June. 
Cbarics Cavanan^ is also m South Bend, asso­ciated with the Hartford Insurance Co. He was in­volved in the purchase of a new home the last time I saw him. 
Louie Anderson is in town, too, but I have not seen him for months. Tom Teamcy, on the other hand, has to bring in his money to the St. Joseph Bank frequently in order to avoid overloading his briefcase, and from my desk in the Trust Depart­ment there I see him quite often. He is thin, but obxiously in good health. I wish I could think of a lot of superlatives to use in my discussion of him because he is the executive officer at the local Naval Rcscr\-c Armory where my youngest is a seaman. 
Joe Barr, always good **copy," is with the district 

attome>**s office in Wood River, III., and is the 
father of three, and soon will make it four. Alary 
his wife, has been seriously ill with what was 
thought to be polio, but she is reported much im­
proved now. 
I had a letter from Judge McNerthney while I 

was in Washington this summer. Joe is practicing 
in Seattle, and his address indicated considerable 
prosperity. Fred Hoover is also in Seattle with the 
firm of Clark, Stone and Hoover, in the Hcnr>' 
Building. 
Tom KfiUs is practicing in Wisconsin, and John Halleck is lining and practicing in Bowling Green, O., and has been teaching part time in the Uni­versity there. John and Virginia have three lovely children. 
Kfike GBncs spent the past months in Las Vegas, Nev., but is back in Indiana now and is reported to be locating here permanently. We hope so. 
Bob Uhl is in law school and is due to graduate next year. Jim Neu is now head of the legal de­partment of Columbia Broadcasting System in Wash­ington, and is living in Alexandria, Va. 
Jerry O'Dowd made the headlines a short while ago when he i«*as sent to a national convention of young legislators. Jerry is no\v Representative O'Dowd and we will doubtless hear from him for a long time in political circles. 
Cedl Jordan is a G-man in Cleveland. O. I sa^v Cecil and his wife in Washington last Easter Sun­day morning, but they rode away before I could say "hello/* 
Leo Linck is married and practices in Michigan. Gerry Feeney and George Stratigos are law partners in South Bend. Gerry is prominent in local Democratic political circles and George 'was recent­ly named commissioner for the Federal Court in South Bend. Both arc married and look prosperous. 
Jim and Mike Godfrey are practicing in Illinois, probably in Litchfield. Dean Manion reported on them after the American Bar Association meeting in St. Louis and he tells me they are both ful­filling all the promise they showed in Law School. Tony Girolami is still in school but will graduate in the spring of 1950. 
Bob Sinon is with White and Sinon in Ottawa, 
111. I have failed completely in my promise to get some information about Mike StcpoWdb for the bo>3 before my "retirement." Bill Hosinski and I spent a considerable time this morning recalling all of Mike's good qualities and wishing for some current information as to his whereabouts. If Mike sees this, I do hope he wiH get in touch with some of us. 
In an effort to confirm Cecil Jordan's address, I talked to Mrs. Bannon, Patricia's mother, and she told me that her son, Barney, is working for the Great Lakes Distributing Company out of Fort Wa>'ne, Ind., and Mark is in Afinncapolis, Minn. 
I shall be in the bank for some time to come, and for any one interested, my permanent address is: Rockport, Ind., R. R., i:are of Elizabeth Day. The latchstring will always be out for any of you, 2Uid perluy)s some of those thousands of cups of coffee that I have consumed at your expense may be recovered. Goodbye. 
It'i brief, but it's about '42ers. let's have more. 
REMEMBER. IF IT'S NEWS, WRITE SCOOP. 
IF rr S ABOUT YOU—IT IS NEWS! 
Neil McCarty was awarded a Bachelor of Laws degree from Harvard University on June 23. John Borgess received a Doctor of Philosophy degree from Ohio State University on Sept. 2. 
Mike Garr is now assistant sales manager for Paper Art Company, Inc., of Indianapolis and New York City. 
Father. SioxHUtidi writes that Vic Assad has join­ed the Trappist order in Georgia and is now Fra­ter Peter. Ako in the Trappists, Father says, is Tom McCarty, *44, now Frater Malachy at the Trappist monastery in Dubuque, la.; Jim O'Connor, who attended Notre Dame from March, 1946 to June, 1947, also is at the the monastery in Du­buque, and Dave Barnes, here from November, 1945 to July, 2946, now is Frater Longinus at Getliese­mani Abbey, Trappist, Ky. 
1943 

John L. Wiggins, 2108 W. Fullerton Ave, Chicago 47, HI. 
Through the excellent efforts of Lou Buckley, alumni secretary, there has been an attempt made to organize the class secretaries, with the hope of having them produce ample copy for each issue. Lou has given all of us tips on methods of procur­ing class news. In reality, however, the success of the class column depends upon the contributors. For this issue I mailed two dozen postcards seeking in­formation and received but ONE reply. Not a sharp percentage. 
Vic would like to ask that when you receive such a card you answer with another postcard with in­formation about yourself or any others of the class. 
Here are the figures to prove just how simple a task this should be: if I should contact 20 men per issue, you would have to pause only a couple of minutes every two years to send a postcard. My immediate sources of information are limited to classmates in the Chicago area. For that reason you may read some names more frequently than others. This is not by design; I cannot write about tliosc from whom I have no information. 
And so, brethren, ends the sermon. Don't forget! Just two minutes each two years. Thank you! 
INDIANA GAME NOTES 

Bill Lower and Dick Hall came do^vn from Gary, Ind., for the game. Bill is with Sears, Roebuck Sc Co., Dick with Gary Wholesale Grocers. Dick's cou­sin. Bob "Buck" Muellman, was married in Danville, 111., to Miss Lynn Hughes. Lower said that John Bosak is selling Flymouths and Chryslers at Bosak Motors in Gary, that George Carberry is in resi­dency at Mercy Hospital, Chicago, and that Bob Lennertz is selling pharmaceuticals. 
Bob Collins of Collins Excavating Co., Blue Island, 111., was at the game and reported that he saw Bill Kinney at Muellman's wedding. Bob said that Jack Dugan was now in Milwaukee ^rith the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Co. Jim Dclaney told me in the stands that he had left San Francisco to work in Grand Rapids, Mich., with a die-casting concern. San Francisco lost Delancy, but gained as a citizen. Jack Tallctt who moved to the coast dly the week follow­ing the Indiana game. His bon voyage wishers at Gate 14 were Bob KfcKee, Lee Raymond, Ed Roney and Pete Moritz. 
Bob Kuipers nailed me after the game to tell me that Bob "Red" Lonergan was married Sept. 22 in the Log Chapel. Bob said that he had seen Jack Specht who was in the Advertising Department of the "Chicago Tribune." Saw Dick Creevy as he rushed to his seat, and understand that Harry O'Melia was at the game, though I'm sorry to say tbat I didn't sec him. 
FROM THE MAIL BAG The Ion; reply to the postcard plea came from George Blackmore: *'Hope this gets to you in time for the next issue. I am now in business for my­self, selling insurance and trying to build my own agency, the George H. Blackmore Agency, 15 Smith­field St., Pittsburgh, Pa—fire, automobile, and mis­cellaneous lines. Haven't seen Bill Murrin for some time. I believe he is still going to law school in Pittsburgh. The N.D. club of Pittsburgh has a luncheon each week at "Dutch Henry's" and I plan to attend ^oon and perhaps get more information for you." 
In response to my request, John PoH'ers, of Inter­national Ne^vs Service, will send us a report on the pep rally preceding the North Carolina game in Yankee Stadium. We hope that Bill Tracy will supply information, also. 
TULANE GAME NOTES Practically all those mentioned as being present at the Indiana game were on hand for the Tulane spectacle, and in addition there were these: Chariie 
Batter, Leo Lewis, Jack GrifiSn, BUI Middendorf, Gail Fitd, Benrie Sdiroeck and Frank Kaiser. 
Lee Raymoiid has left the 1 A Salle St. brokerage firm in Chicago for a transfer to South Bend, ^vherc he is on the sales force of Texaco. 
Hcxb Mdtoa was not the usual pessimistic cx­pecter of one in the coaching profession. He pre­dicted a fair share of \'ictories for his Irish fencing team this season. Herb has joined the Notre Dame faculty as an instructor in accounting. By tlie time this bit reaches the readers the football season will be over, so it'« safe to say now that Herb's wife, Kay, is secretary to Herb Jones, business manager of athletics. 
The deadline for the next column is December 
15. How about marking down that date and drop­ping us a line here? Your friends would like to hear a word about you. 
John Powers gives the lowdown on the North Carolina weekend in New York: 
"The pre-game rally at the Biltmore Hotel on Friday night was packed to the chandeliers. My wife and I arrived in the company of Paul Neville, '42, sports editor of the "South Bend Tribune," Cy UoDcgan, '43, and Jim Ferry and Joe Lane of '42. Cy Donegan is just getting acquainted on his new job, that of selling advertising space on the new "Flair" magazine, due out in January, 1950. We spotted a lot of the boys around the various tables, among them Don Heltzel and his wife, all the U'ay in from Ohio; Bill Herzog and Tom KfcCrcedy, both *43, up from Baltimore and BUI Walsh, '43, formerly of Mineola and now in Levittown. One table was turned over to FBI men exclusively and every one of them having a good time: Tony Ma­loney, Frank Conforti, Ollie Hunter, Bill Tracy. The Bureau can be proud of them. Bill Tracy's brother, Joe Tracy, was happy too, having just finished his law work at Columbia U. and readying to leap the bar exam. 
"Down another aisle, I bumped into Frank Kunk­el, '43, talking with Dick Murphy, '42, both of them from Forest Hills. Frank is working for his Ph.D. at Columbia U. these days. 
"After the game ^vas over on Saturday (and what a game it was) it seemed that half of the stadium converged on the cocktail party and reception at the New York Athletic Club. Ever>-body was hungry after yelling their lungs out for the team to come from behind and beat the Rebels, and a tray of hors d'oeuvres dis^peared in no time. There I bumped into Bill Olvany, '43, another Forest Hills resident just moved to Bayside. Bill was accom­panied by his very beautiful ^vife, Dolores, and they told me of two children at home. Bill Johnsoin and Jim Gooney, *43, walked up with a drink and I learned that Jim Hubbard was about the premises, too. Jim Cawley, '40, came along with Father SiDKMiitcfa, C.S.C., whom I hadn't seen since grad­uation, and I heard that my brother. Father Joe Powers, C.S.C., may be back on the cajnpus next year. 
"It was a wild and wonderful ^veekend, Jack, and I hope I've given you a small idea of some of the guys in it." 
Jim Delaney, formerly of San Francisco, is now located in Grand Rapids, Mich., at 347 Briarwood. 
1944 
WMam F. Talbot, 300 Main St, White Plains, N. Y. 

From Bin Talbot: 
Merry Christmas! 
And now that we've neatly disposed of that, there is more salient matter at hand, dished up by our develaod informer, Tom Bremer. He reports that other lads duly enrolled in the local alumni chapter are Bill Mnlfigaii, Jade Doyle, Crei^ton Miller, and INdt Hackman. So if you ever get stuck in Cleveland—and that's what you do when you're in Cleveland: get stuck—then you can look up a couple of the lads above. 
Since we do not have much copy for the column this time—due to a rascally disinclination on the part of classmates to write—we would like to quote most of Tom's informative letter, being careful, of course, to emend those jolly, earthy expletives which mi^ t otherwise impair the high tone of this here article: 
"Crrigliton Miller, besides practicing law on his own, and being assistant attorney general for the State of Ohio, is also broadcasting football games over station WERE in Cleveland. 
"Then there's Jack Doyle who is looking for peo­ple who want to invest their millions. He claims he can triple your money overnight. 
**BiU MoUigan is still slaidng for Fisher's Foods here in Cleveland and planning to get married some time in the near future. 
"Dick Hackman is working for Hackman Leather and doesn't do much more than [EMENDED]. 
"As for myself, there isn't much news. Still try­ing to get a few clients into my office, but I broke my lasso and there went my clients." 
Tom, as you may have supposed, is an attorney. That address in Cleveland is: Leonard Frost, Attor-ney-at-Law, National City Bank BIdg. 
From out Wisconsin way comes more good news. Bill Boddcn has married and taken off weight. Or vice versa. It's bard to tell in a case ilke that which comes first. Anyway, writing from bis new address of 112 Juneau St., Horicon, Wis., Bill re­ports that he is a real estate broker and solicitor agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., and that he will probably tie in his law prac­tice with these duties in the near future. 
Bill reports that Larry Lenz, a fellow lawyer, lives nearby (which couldn't be far in Horicon), and that Mr. and Mrs. Donald J. O'Neill, '40, have just borne a bouncing baby boy by the name of Brian. 
By a bit of indirect investigation we have ako discovered that Bill is doing much better than he may let on. For he has achieved two high civic posts, as director of the Horicon Athletic Association and secretary of the Chamber of Commerce. 
Word from another lawyer on another front: Attorney Bill Kelly is "bubbling over with opti­mism." And in the excess of his exuberance he has deigned to drop us a Hne—an act which this column ^qiprcciates no end. To wit: 
"About the middle of last June, Tom O'Connor spent his honeymoon on Nantucket, and on his re­turn spent two days with me on Cape Cod. I was down with my parents at the time. He has his own advertising business in Chicago, and was doing rather well. However, have not seen hide nor hair of him since. 
"Just recently Frank Grover spent some time in 
Lowell with his ^vife, and I spent an afternoon with him. He's a salesman for a furniture firm in Elk­hart. Same old Frank. . . . 
"Frank took his wedding trip through the South, and stopped off in your old home town of Louis­ville to see Jacques Vecneman. Believe they stayed the night, and hashed over old times. Said Jack had two children now and a Scotty dog. He's vnth the George H. Gould Co." 
Blessings on all guys like Jack Collins. He keeps us all posted on the fellows ivho entered Notre Dame in 1941 and graduated in 1944. He supplies us, for instance, with information about Bill Grafe, now a chemical engineer in Cincinnati. Bill an­nounced his eng^ement in August and was married-at a formal wedding on the 23rd of No%'ember in Cincinnati. Also a word about Dick O'Heam, who recently completed law school at the University of Cincinnati, and who has already passed the Ohio bar examination. 
As for Jack himself, he's still working as a re­search engineer for the Union Carbide Corp., Niag­ara Falls, N. Y. His home address up that •way is 729 Townsend Place. 
"Another lawyer. This time it's the old relicdile Glee Club man and aciademic record breaker, George Barisdllo. Here from George: 
"I'm leaving for Trenton tomorrow morning (Oct. 12), and I'll be there for the next couple of days taking the New Jersey State Bar Examination, so you ran ima^ne the hectic time I've been baying the past months boning up for the event. As you know, I completed my law studies at Notre Dame last January. Since that time I have been serving' a law derluhip (required by N. J. law) with one of New Jersey's superior court judges in Jersey City. It's been a most interesting experience. 
"Last month I attended the N. D. Club of N. J. (Welcome Party) for the incoming Frosh from this state. It was held in-Newark and on hand to greet the new men^bersof the Notre Dame family were such stalwarts from our da u as Frank 'Gigs' Gior­dano, John Bright, and Bill Waldron, among others. Father Frank Gartland, was the princqud speaker, and he gave a very interesting and amusing account of his early days at Notre Dame, and concluded his remarks with some very ^vorthwbile su^estions to the new men of Notre Dame from N. J." 
And finally we have a treat for all the old gang, a communique from Francis J. Sanfilippo. "Flqi," as he was better known as in them days, has this to report anent the North Carolina post-game con> fab: 
"Just talked to Dick McCahe on the phone and he too thinks the idea is wonderful. As you probably noticed in the ALUMNUS Dick vras recently en­gaged to a South Bend girl. At present he is in his father's law office here in Foughkeepsie. 
"I am with Remington-Rand here in Poughkeep­sie, in the Systems division. After finishing at N. D. in August '47, I started selling in the field and final­ly transferred here in May of this year. .. . By the way, if anyone is interested—it has never been announced in the ALUMNUS—I have two of the prettiest and smartest girls that ever rooted for 
N. D. 
**Andy 'Bull' Murphy is recreation director for the city of Kingston, which is just across the ri^Tr up here. Nick Amato, after teaching at N. D. for a couple of years, is now up at St. Bonaventure in Olean. The last time I heard from him, Lou Horn­ing was helping his dad in Tarentum, Pa. Lou and his wife, Florence, have a future halfback for about 1967. 
By the way, do you, or anyone else, know the whereabouts of Gene Carney? That ex-roomie char­acter of mine has eluded me for too long now and I figure it is about time for me to give him his periodic 'taking down.' Maybe this will rouse him a little." 
"Flip" also sends a personal note of congratula­tion to John Lynch for his wonderful success in the literary field. 
One point in "Flip's" letter is disturbing. He re­ports that, though he is listed as '48 in the ALUM­NUS, Dick McCabe's loyalty is still with '44. Now it would be nice if we would all sit down and take a good deep breath and listen: Anyone ^vho gradu­ated in 1944 or who, during any period of his scho­lastic life, intended to graduate in 1944, may by this very fact denote it as his class. It is entirely a mat­ter for the individual to decide. The Alumni Office does not want to appoint any graduates to a cJass which is not of their choosing. If you arc repre­sented as being a member of a class other than '44, and ^vish to change; or if you are listed as '44 and wish to change to another class, then simply drop a post card to me or to the Alumni Office. 
There's a bit of ne^vs out our way, too. Herb Gans, '42, and Jim Quinn, '36, both local West­chester lads, put their heads together and came up with an enormously successful benefit for polio at the Coveleigh Club, Rye, N. Y. Jim was one of the principal sparkplugs of the venture, which drew statewide attention. It happened that all three of Jim's boys were stricken thb summer, one of them seriously. It is good to report that all are now well, and recuperating rapidly and happily. 
At the Notre Dame Club meeting in New York in October were "Black John" Murphy, John Duffy, Jack Kelly, Frank Kunkel, Chuck Koegler, Tony Eariey (an apostate who has s^vitchcd to another class), and several late arrivals whom I didn't get to meet. 
Thanks to the special indulgence of Alumni Sec­retary Bill Dooley, we arc able to overstep the press deadline and bring you a hurried and par­tial account of events over the North Carolina weekend in New York. 
Headquarters for the Notre Dame croivd was the Biltmore Hotel where, on Friday evening, the rally-reunion entertainment got under%vay, featuring the singing of the sensation of television and Broad­way, Kyle Macdonnell—whom, if you ain't seen yet, what have you got eyes for? 
Up there real close to the ringside were Jack Kelly and Tony Eariey on one hand, and Frank "nylon-is-so-good-to-my-skin" English on the other. Frank and Helen confided that they and baby now make five. 
Paying the bill at the same table were Jadk O'N ^ with a pair of lovely girls; Andy Bariuere, with 'a girl whose name and phone number I didn't get; and Dave Garroway trom Chicago, alias Bynai Kaaaley and his wife, &dl]r. 
Beraie BOMIUS never misses. He was there, and so was hb oM side-kick, JIM Mihnfy. IKtto Jack Wkitdy, who has taken on the stature of Lc m Hart. He's that bbbig and robbbnst! Bill Bo« fi­nally showed vp to | ^ us all « iJinqpw of his charming young wife. Joe FOBS and Joe GaOa^bcr also showed—the oM equalizers. 
Of course you know how the game went the next day. Immediately afterwards the Notre Dame crowd squeezed into the New York Athletic Club. Your correspondent had to miss all but the last half hour of the festivities, and probably missed most of the fellows. But those we saiw and welcomed were as follows: Cliack Fattersoa and his wife, together with Cknck FSdkardt; BUI Cany, who is finishing at Harvard Business School; Ted VfAer (and wife) and Al Sammtr together; a jovial group anchored to the bar, including Joka CHara and Ed Kedan; another gxonp was composed of Jadt SnIlivaB, Red McCafferty, and Bill RuJgus at which point we bumped into lawyer-at-large Joe Fatmcoo; the Ed Dowlings and Join Mnrplnrs, who later went off to dinner ti^ether. Several others who, though they are not members of onr class, are popular enou ^ to be remeinbered:Fatlier Smoaitsdi, Rani UUIBt, Jim McVey, Paul Tafd, Bob Sasi, and the mi^ty mite, Gr ^ Rice. 
Jerry Brown, Ed Mrmaghanj, CharBe Koe^er, J ^ Sullivan, and John Daffy made the Wednesday nig^t New York Club meeting and presomably attended the party, thou^ we are sorry to have mused them there. 
At the Commencement exercises on June 23, Har­vard University awarded master's degrees in busi­ness administration to Vince Bitter, John Hickey and Fiankfin EA. 
Joe Nenfdd wras a patient at the Hickory Grove Sanatorium, West DePere, Wis., but was to undergo a series of operations at Colundiia Hospital in Mil­waukee. Pray for him, and keep mail going to him. Letters can be addressed to his home, Whitney Road, P. O. Box 17, Green Bay, Wis. 
Emmitt Jomings, Queen of Angels Hospital, Los Angeles, was in Chicago for a medical convention. Emmitt sat in as team physician for the Los An­geles Rams while Bob Snyder, former N.D. back­field coach, was at the helm of the Rams last season. 
Jack Coleman reports an address change; he is now working in New York City for the Coleman-Pettersen Corp., 521 Fifth Ave. He lives in Ber­genfield, N. J. 
Ed Altendorf is an accountant for the Red Star Yeast and Products Co., 221 £. Buffalo St., Mil­waukee 1, Wis. 
John Zwidwr, recently married, reports a change of address from .^ipleton, Wu., to New York City, where be represents the Zwicker Knitting Mills of Appteton; His office is at 303 Fifth Ave. Call him there. 
Vail FisdEtke announces the opening of his pri­vate Uw offices at 724 Ninth St., NW, Washhigton 1, D. C , for the general practice of law He is a radio consultant. 
1945 

James W. Sdiaeffer, 7516 N. Hojme, 
ClucagD, HL 

Don't forget the five-year reumoiif June 9, 10 and U, on the campus. Details in the next issue. Start now to get your pab lined up for the big weekend. 
Ed Fanst writes from Columbus, O., where be and his wife reside at 877 Gladden Rd. Ed has re­cently taken a new job. 
Ted Weber reports a recent move from General Electric in Bridgeport to McGiaw-Hill in New York City, where he is news editor for "Electrical Merchandising."' The Webers have found a fine apartment at 68 Beardsley Park Terrace, Bridge­port 8, Conn. 
Bin Whakn is settled in California at 4302 Grant, Fresno, and took his California bar exam in early October. 
Ray Bfazza is a medical stiident at Jefferson Med­ical College, Philadelpbia, and will graduate in June, 1950. 
Bob MoRissey made his sinqile profession as. a Benedictine monk, and member of St. Bede'Abbey, Pern, HL, July II. He ti known as Frater Dnmtan, O.S.B., aiid is teaching modera' history. 
Art Cu—nri «ras awarded a master's degree in 
Mr, Sd'.vard J. Tracey Jr* University Club State College. Pa. 
business administration from Harx-ard University on June 23. Ed Kelly was the principal speaker at a football rally held by St. Anthony's Catholic High School, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in October. John **Tree" Adams, \Vashington Redskins tackle, is an automobile salesman in the off season. Pat Fisher, *35, 616 Indiana Trust Bldg., Indian­apolis, writes that he is holding a Notre Dame ring, marked "R.G.K., M5." The ring, found some years ago in the Wcinity of Union Station, Indianapolis, was only recently turned over to Pat. He will be glad to hear from anyone claiming it. 
7946 
John K. Stewart, Nolan Motor Co., Garden City, Kans. 

From Jack Stewart: Word has it that Charlie Clauss and Ed Fisher were going to attend tlie Micliigan-Army debacle (I can say it now) at Ann Arbor. Elmer "Bud" Angsman got off on another success­ful season as a star in the Chicago Cardinal back­ficld. Tom Bums writes from Clovis, New Mcx., that he and his brother, James F. (Notre Dame: 1935-37), are continuing tlieir father's real estate, insurance, loans and abstracting business. Tom says that he plans to take in the ND-SMU game in Dallas, and then asks: Can anybody help (get more tickets?)? He sa^-s that Rudy Lopez is married. 
From ^ladison, AVis., comes word from Charlie Bartlett, barrister and member of tlie attorney gen­craPs staff there. He tliinks that he may be in private practice next year—in Cuba City, Wis. He says that Bill Schmid **was worlJng for lus father's Crescent Electric Supply Co., and seemed to be happy and doing well." 
It is rumored that Art Mosher is somewhere in his Nexv Hampshire hills. Doing what or with %v-hom is unknown: possibly che%ving betel nuts. 
En route from Washington, D. C, I met Jack Tenge in Kansas City. He has left the advertising post in his father's company and is director of pub­lications at Rockhurst College in Kansas City. 
Let*s hear from some of you, Na\y as \vell as civilian graduates. Don't be bashful: w*e're all in­terested in what youVe done, arc doing, plan to do. 
Bill Young is a student at the Colorado Scliool of Mines in Golden Colo. Bill's home is at 595 Long^vood Ave., Glcncoe, 111. 
7947 
Joseph D. TJsina, 219 S. Scott St, South Bend, Ind. 

From J. D. Usina: Saw Andy McKay of Algonquin, 111., who is now in South Bend as a field underwriter for Mutual Life of New York. He passed along the following news: Jack Freeman, Mishawaka, Ind., is \%-ith Gcn­eiol Mills in a sales capacity; Tom Egon, Torring­ton. Conn., is employed by Brodbeck Trucking in Detroit in sales promotion work; Jack Dee was In towTQ for the Tulane game. Talked to John 0*Brien who is in tlie Trust De­partment of the St. Joseph Bank here in South Bend. According to John, Luke Newbold is assistant physi­cal education director and football coach at ^fadison School here, and Tom Manuszak, *48, is with the Indiana and Michigan Electric Co. 
Among those here in South Bend to sec the N.D.­Tulane game by Bob Snee''s count were Bob Cronin, John Lavery, Bob Erkins, Paul Heiman and John Caron. It was rumored that Frank GilKgan was also around but that was hard to verify. 
John Hosbcin writes from Glencoe, 111., that he sees John Horrigan, recently a father, occasionally. Bob Brown is teaching E.E. in North Dakotiu John says he is working in his father's plant at Aurora and keeping busy. 
Had a card that Dr. John B. Meyers is located at 2310 Fortieth Place, N.W., in Washington. 
Bud Gotta and Bob Erkins arc, as tliis is written, to be married in the next few weeks. \Vin save the details for later. 
As for your correspondent—I am with tlie Lincoln 

J. Carter advertising agenc>* liere in South Bend, which was formed when the old agenc>' of Carter, Jones and Taylor was reorganized. V!e have offices in the Sherland Building and I would like to sec members of the class passing through South Bend. Maybe it will be easier to extract news in a facc­to-face meeting. 
Bob Rosenthal received a bachelor of science de­gree in chemical engineering from Washington Uni­versity, St. Louis, in June, 1949. Bob is now work­ing for the Process Engineering and Equipment Co. as a sales engineer. 
Joe DeMuro is teaclung accounting in St. Ed­ward's University, Austin, Texas. 
Dennis Stark is the new assistant physical di­rector of the South Bend Y.M.C.A. He is the father of two children. 
Dick Prosche is an engineer with the Schutte-

Koerting Co., 12th and Thompson Sis., Philadelphia 
22. 
Frank Sz>'manski, in his fifth season in the Nation­

al Football League, was purcliased by the Chicago 
Bears after four years with the Detroit Lions and 
Philadclpliia Eagles. 
Master's degrees in Business Administration were 

awared by Harx'ard to the following: Paul Ames, 
Jack Alexander, Frank MacCaule>', Ted Oppen­
heim and Forrest 'Watson. 
A grim, but smiling and courageous, fight is be­ing waged in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, by Jack Miles, son of Frank, *22, who in Septem­ber was hit down by polio. In an iron lung ever since. Jack is still in critical condition as this is written. Pray for him, for his family and for his fiancee, Beatrice Marie Machek, to whom he was to have been married on Sept. 17. 
7948 
Herman A. Zitt, Foundation OIHce, Notre Dame, Ind. 
From Herman Zitt: 

A number of M8 men have not sent in their '49 contributions to the Notre Dame Foundation. Tlius far we wouldn't get much of a room for the 52,844.00 contributed by 339 MB men. Tlie average tliis year is above expectations, $8.39 as compared to $4,24 last year. But we need a contribution from everyone, no matter how small. 
In passing from the unpopular to the popular I am glad to report that there is some news about our classmates. From the Warren Kanes comes a report that they have moved from Olean, N. Y., to Tulsa. "Warren is still working for Clark Bros. Be­fore leaving Olean they spent some time with the Bob Logan's, who ha\e two swell kids and a nice home. Bud O'Reilly is working for EBASCO Ser­vices in New York City (and still single). The Ber­nie LaLonss are Hving in Pontiac, ^ficIl. The last report from Joe Fitzgerald has Joe working in In­dianapolis. 
John Taylor is working for the Blind Commission in Massachusetts. Tlie Charlie Owens, now living in Rockingham, N. C , reported the birth of a daughter on Sept. 27. Charles Ebner just started his sophomore ^year in medicine at Wayne Univer­sity, Detroit. John Zarantc is busy u^th his own accounting firm in Chicago (two small Zarantes now). John and Jean were down for the Indiana game. Joe and Luclla Dues spent the Tulane week­end witli us (two smalt Dues also). 
Hal Tchan has accepted a position in the legal department of the Haggar Co. in Dallas. Hal for­merly w-as Father S*%'ecnei*'s right hand man. Frank Robinson belongs to the some Naval Reserve bat­talion as I do. Jim Fcrstel will finish his law work here in January*. Lou Burns and Jim Griffin were down for the Tulane game. Lou is raising dough for the Hoover Plan in New York City. Jim is ^vorking for an advertising concern in Chicago. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Frank Tripucka has just been added to the Detroit 
Lions squad. 
Dan Barlow is now linng in Duancsburg, N. Y., 

Dick Brose in Mc. Lebanon, Pa. Tom Foley is 
working for DeCoursey's Dairy, Oklahoma City. 
Bill Greeley, having left Vetxille, is now living in 
BuflTalo, N. Y. Paul Jackson is in Indianapolis, John 
Mabcj* in South San Francisco, and John McGroder 
in WicklifFe, O. \^c Neal has moved to Brookings, 
3. D. Paul Pandolfi is living in Wilmington, Del., and Dave Ardito has moved to College Siation, Taxas. 
Bill Comstock is now li\*ing in Springfield. III., Bill Ethridge in Alliance, O., and Dan Fessin in Utica, N. Y. Bob KuchI has moved to New York City, Tom Kilcy is now with Bendix in South Bend, and TyrcII Miller, is living in Detroit. John Mc-Sliane is In Law School at Notre Dame. Bemie O'Hara has moved to Augusta, Ga., Bob Reynolds to Chicago, and Sam Smith to Du Bois, Pa. John Sweeney is now living in Chicago, Charlie Trotter in Jamaica, N. Y., and Paul ^Vanvig in Hamburg, Pa. Bob Kopf is working for the Kimball Glass Co., Toledo. 
Leo Murphy, former South Bend resident, is now* a trainer of the New York Yankees football team. His present address is Hotel Commander, 55 West Broadway, Long Beach, N. Y. 
Fred Shadley was awarded a master of science 
degree from Harx-ord on June 23. 
Mar\* Lou Gatens reports for Don their change 
of address to 211 Austin Ave., Maquoketa, la. 
Frank Pux'au is a medical student at Louisiana State University. His mailing address is 3964 Louisi­ana Ave., New Orleans. 
Gene LeFave, holder of one of the first J. I. Holcomb fellowships in chemistr>' at Butler Uni­versity, Indianapolis, presented a paper to the na­tional convention of the American Chemical Society, held Sept. 19 in Atlantic City, N. J. 
1949 

John P. Walker, Roche, ^VilIiam & Cleary, 135 S. La Salle St. Chicago, 111. 
BULLETIN: Johnny Walker has just generously 
accepted tlie secretaryship of the 1949 class. Afore 
later! 
Dick Nolan has Joined the Franciscan Order and 
is at St. Francis Seminary, Todt Hill Road, Sta­
ten Island 4, N. Y. Dick was previously connected 
with the O'Brien Paint Co. in South Bend. Ernie 
AfcCulIough is studying for the priesthood at the 
Holy Cross Novitiate in South Bend. 
John Bartley is with the Burroughs Adding Afa­cliine Co. in South Bend. His business address is 226 AV. Jefferson Blvd. 
Tom Brady is with the Thor Corp. in Chi­cago, where he is editor for the house organ. Bob Conlin, M.A.„ '49. is teacliing sociology in St. Tliomas College, St. Paul, Afinn. 
Tom Lunneen was appointed federal census su­per\'isor of the third Indiana congressional district. Tom, South Bend attorney, is married and lives at 110 North Hill St., South Bend. 
Joe Anderson, 607 East Corby Blvd., South Bend, 
has been admitted to the practice of law in Indiana. 
He has offices at 211 Poledor Bldg, South Bend. 
Joe Mangrich is employed as deputy collector in 
the Bureau of Internal Revenue in South Bend. 
Bcrnie Powers is head football coach at St. Bcde's Academy, Peru, IIL Dick Riley is athletic director and head coach at King's College Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Ted Budynkiewicz is freshman football coacli at Arizona State College. 
Karl Ackerman is with the Foreign Ser\'icc of 
the Department of State, is at the American Em­. bassy in Rome and expects to be there for two years. His address is American Embass>*, Rome, Italy. Karl saw Brother Bonifaire, C.S.C., sacristan, 
when Brother was in Rome this past summer. 
George Flemming is employed by the Welch Sci­entific Appartus Co., Chicago. Wib Afarshall is con­nected with an architectural firm in Tampa, Fla. 
Don Hoo\-er has started his practice of law in Nappanee, Ind., in partnership with R. L. Eggcr of Breinen, Ind. Don is married and has one child. 






