The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
if^ 

CAMPL/ NLMBEC 
" '°°* is n.. . -;^•< L^%> 
%.
th 'W
Lib />! 
^aj^i 
'->6 
i5t ^ ^^^ 
THE N€TKE DAME 



ALLMNL/ 
PCBCllACy, 193(5 
<.y£.LUMNI interest in this issue, the Association believes, will be two-fold. 
First, in an effort to picture for friends, particularly those who are prospective students or the parents of such students, this issue gives what we hope is a picture of the Notre Dame of today. 
So much has happened in recent years to change the campus pic­ture that even comparatively recent alumni should welcome this rather detailed picturization of the present Notre Dame. 
Secondly, the Association's program of cooperation with the University in informing boys and their parents of the facilities of the institution make this a valuable guide-book-No matter how recent the alumnus, his grasp of the various departments of the several Col­leges, and his knowledge of the new costs, etc., can bear supplement. 
Copies will be sent to friends of the University whenever recom­mended by alumni. Or, if the alumnus desires to pass on this copy, it will be replaced on request. 
The Alumni Association. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAUES £ . AmiSTRONG, '25, The masa^ne is published monthly during the Echolasdc year by the Alumni Association Member of the American Editor Alumni Council. 
of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is 52.00 a year: the price of sing]e--copies is 25 ceats. The \anniinl alumni dufs of S5.00 include WILLIAM E. OOOLET, '26. Member of Nafl. Catholic 
a year's subscription to THE ALTJUNUS. Entered as second-class-matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, tinder the Act of March 3. 1879. All 
•' -Aaaoeiate Editor Alumni Federation 
correspondence should be addressed to Tlie Notre Dame Alumnus, Box SI. Notre Dame. Ind, 
FEBRUARY, 1935 No. 5
voL-xm 
i 0(b 


Notre D ame Men 
PublidMdby The Alumni Association Univctsity of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
\0 4 
^'l n • ) 
REV. JOHN F. G'HARA, CS.C. 
President of the University 
Colleges and  
Departments  
•  COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS Modem Lansuajcs Economics and Politics Philosophy Secondary Edocalioa Sociology Physical Education Religion Jounwlism Hirtoiy Speech Clanics Music Englifh Alt  
•  COLLEGE OF SCIENCE Chemistry Mathematics Biology Astronomy Physics ' Pharmacy Premedics  
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING Mechanical Engineering Chemical Engineering Electrical Engineering Mechanical Drawing Mining Engineering Aichttecture Civil Engineering Metallurgy  
•  COLLEGE OF  LAW  
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE Finance and Accounts Foreign Commerce Marlccfing and Business Administration  
•  GRADUATE SCHOOL  
•  SUMMER SESSION  

oi 
REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C Vice-President oF the University 
IIP 



ALMOST A CENTURY 
The Original Notre Dame—1844. 
Now the Holy Cross Mission House. 
The University of Notre E>ame was founded in 1842 and was chartered two years later by the legislature of the State of Indiana. The foundation was inspired by the missionary zeal of the Rev. Edward Frederick Sorin, cs.C, and six Brothers, of the French religious community known as the Congr^ation of Holy Cross, who came to this country in response to an appeal made to the Congregation by Bishop Haillandiere, of Vincennes, for assist­ance in developing his extensive diocese. The capital of the little community amounted to four hundred dollars. The land now occupied by the University was deeded by the Bishop to Father Sorin and his associates on the condition that a college be built and made ready for students within two years. In spite of great difficulties and many personal hardships, the task was completed and a number of students were enrolled within the time specified. 
As soon as the first building had been completed Father Sorin applied to the State authorities for a charter, which by special act of the l^slature of Indiana was granted on the fifteenth of January, 1844. 
The little community, with Father Sorin as head, was soon augmented by the arrival of other members of the Congregation from France. A church and other buildings were added, friends gave the institution important aid, and the enrollment of students gradually increased. Father Sorin served as president of the University from the founding in 1842 to the year 1865. His successors in office have been: Rev. Patrick Dillon, CS.C, 1865 to 1866; Rev. William Corby, CS.C, 1866 to 1872; Rev. Augustus Lemonaier, C.S.C, 1872 to 1874; Rev. Patrick Colovin, cs.c , 1874 to 1877; Rev. William Corby, cs.c , 1877 to 1881; Rev. Thomas 
E. Walsh, C.S.C, 1881 to 1893; Rev. Andrew Morrissey, cs.C, 1893 to 1905; Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, cs.c, 1905 to 1919; Rev. James A. Bums, cs.c, 1919 to 1922; Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, 1922 to 1928; Rev. Charles L. CDonnell, cs.C, 1928 to 1934, and Rev. John F. O'Hara, cs.c , 1934—. 
Until 1865 the only courses offered at Notre £)ame were the traditional ones in classics and in letters. In that year pro­vision was made for courses in science, and in 1869 for a depart­ment of law, the first permanent department of the kind at a Catholic university in the United States. A department of civil engineering, likewise a pioneer effort in the Catholic institution, was inaugurated in 1873. The Departments of Mechanical En­gineering, Architecture^ Pharmacy, Electrical Bigineering, and others were added before 1900. In 1897 the University was or­ganized in four units — arts and letters, science, engineering, and law. In 1905 these divisions came to be des^nated as colleges and as such constituted the organization of the University until 1920, when the College of Commerce was added. 
Prior to 1920 there was in connection with the University a. preparatory school in which more students were enrolled than in the collegiate departments of the University. An elementary school also (St. Edward's Hall) was for many years conducted on the campus. Before 1920 a student could receive his entire edu­cation at Notre Dame, from kindergarten to graduate woric — an opportunity of which many took advantage. The ttaditions which resulted from these circumstances and the emphasis placed upon character-training at Notre Dame help to explain the long life of the preparatory school. 
While the University has been from the b^inning under the Congregation of Holy Qoss, with a large number of priests and brothers serving on the faculty, there has always httn. a consider­able number of lay professors. 
The University occupies a campus ojE 1,200 acres, immediately north of the dty of South Bend, Lidiana, an industrial center of 104,000 people, eighty-six miles east of Chicago. 
A N EARLIER NOTRE DAME 
ABOVE: The Engineering building which preceded the present imposing structure; L E F T: The Notre Dame campus as it appeared in the earliest days of the University; B E L O W: The first Notre Dame football team in 1887. There were eleven football suits in those days and, necessarily, only eleven players to fill them. The suits were of canvas with no padded pants, and no shotdder pads. The University of Michigan was the first opponent of this Notre Dame aggre­gation, which included a large por­tion of future capitalists, judges, high army officials, physicians and busi­
ness men. 
'J '^^y. > ^ 
.//^ 
SS.'==<S!S; 
UPPER LEFT: A 
lacrosse team was one of the earlier features in Notre Dame ath­letic history; UPPER RIGHT: The boys used to go in for boat races, too; MIDDLE LEFT: And the lads of Sorin Hall appar­ently liked their hats and their papers; 
MIDDLE RIGHT: 
This track trio con­sisted of, left to right, Rockne, Plant and Pritchard; RIGHT: The Church and the Administration build­ing in the 1870 era. 
THE PRESENT NOTRE DAME 
^>^ 
LEFT PAGE—UPPER LEFT: Lyons Hall and the famous Arch; UPPER RIGHT: A distinguished row at the 1934 Commencement, including left to right. Most Rev. J. M. McNamara, auxiliary bishop of Baltimore, Cordell Hull, secre­tary of state. Most Rev. Amleto Cicognani, apostolic delegate. Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame; MIDDLE LEFT: Guglielmo Marconi, at Notre Dame to receive an honorary degree; MIDDLE RIGHT: University Library; BELOW: 1934 Commencement. 
V 
RIGHT PAGE—RIGHT: G. K. Chesterton, who gave a six-weeks series of lectures, receiving honorary degree from Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., late president of Notre Dante, in 1931; BELOW: Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the Uni­versity; LOWER LEFT: New stadium; LOWER RIGHT: New heating plant. 
i^l'^i'l 
/ 
/!^ 
RIGHT: A small portion of the many religious at­tending a Notre Dame summer session; MID ­DLELEFT: Jacques Maritain, noted French philosopher, recent lectur­er on the campus, with Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., head of the insti­tute of medieval studies at Notre Dame. 
m^m 
ABOVE: Recipients of honorary degrees at the 193 2 Commencement, pictured with Rev. Chas. 
L. O'Donnell. C.S.C, center, late Notre Dame president, were, left to right, Owen D. Young, international figure. Most Rev. James E. Cassidy, Bishop of Fall River, Mass., Martin H.-Car­mody, supreme knight of the Knights of Columbus, Sergius P: Grace, vice-president of the Bell Telephone Laboratories; LEFT: The laymen's re­treat, held each summer at Notre Dame, is the largest single laymen's re­treat in the world. 
NOTRE DAME 




TODAY » » 
The Notre Dame Postoffice. Newest building on the campus. 
With four hundred dollars and infinite faith in God seven men founded the University in 1842. 
It was the begirming of what is today one of the great schools of the world and the largest boys' boarding school in the world:— with an investment in physical equipment running well into the millions, with a notable faculty of 205 members, with students from practically all of the forty-eight states in this country and from many foreign countries, with a world-wide reputation for scholarship and patronage of the arts. 
Standing at the head of the quadrangle, surmounted by the world-famous golden dome and a large statue of Our Lady, the Administration Building, a large five-story building, is the focal point of the campus and entire countryside. The dome and its statue typify the Notre Dame of yesterday, of today, and of to­morrow, all joined in eternal and humble acknowledgment of the help and special protection of the Mother of God — in 1942 as well as in 1842. 
Other important buildings on the campus include the Univer­sity Church, dedicated to the Saaed Heart, the Library, and the Gymnasium. The church is a Gothic structure, with a large crypt, numerous chapels, a set of chimes, and a six-ton bell. The fresco work, by the noted Italian artist, Luigi Gregori, who spent a score of years at Notre Dame, has recently been renewed. 
The University Library, completed in 1917, is a modem building of Bedford stone, with a capacity of 600,000 volumes. The main floor has two commodious reading rooms — one for reference work and the other for periodicals — administrative of­fices, a central delivery hall, and a catalog room. 
The Gymnasium, a brick structure 320 feet in length and 100 feet in width, contains an apparattis room, dressing room, showers, and space for indoor track and baseball. An aimex to the gym­nasium was completed in 1925, providing an up-to-date basketball court and permanent seats for 2,000 spectators. By means of movable seats 5,500 persons can be seated in view of the court. 
The new football stadium, seating 55,000 people, is, while comparatively modest in size, a genuine example of all that is most modem in structures of this kind. Washington Hall con­tains the University auditorium searing 900 persons, and the studios of the Department of Music. 
The laboratory facilities of Notre Dame include: the laboratory for bacteriology, the botanical laboratories, the chemical labora­tories, the metallurgy laboratories, the high tension laboratory, the pharmaceutical laboratory, the laboratories in physics, the physiological laboratory, the psychological laboratory, the zo­ological laboratories. 
• 
Of outstanding interest on the Notre Dame campus today is the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, occupying five well-lighted rooms on the third floor of the University Library. It is one of the best art collections in the Middle West and authoritatively considered the finest collegiate collection in the country. Among the 225 canvasses in the gallery are representative works by Van Dyke, Guido, Veronese, Tintorreto, di Credi, and other masters. In the gallery are also fifteen fine primitives. The original col­lection has been gready increased through the generosity of the late Dr. Charles A. Wightman of Evanston, Illinois. 
But the real story of Notre Dame is not its buildings, essential as they are and as imposing as they have become, nor in its lab­oratories, classrooms and athletic fields. It lies, first, in the self-sacrificing labors of an administration and faculty, both religious and lay, that have given their lives to the noble purpose for which the institution exists. And it lies, secondly, in the love and com­radely feeling that make the "Notre Dame spirit" synonymous with all that is most inspiring in college life. 
If Notre Dame is today successful in accomplishing its mission in the world, if Notre I3ame men are Christian gentlemen wherever they are and whatever their stations in life, then the credit must go to the self-sacrifice and love which are the inspired results of Mary's call. 
fli 

THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
LEFT: Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., 
dean of the College of Arts and Letters, 
and Professor Emil Jacques, head of the department of art; BELOW: Shane Les­lie, famous Irish writer, a member of the Notre Dame faculty for the second semes­ter of 1934-35; LOWERLEFT: Admin­istration Building, with its famous golden dome; LoVER RIGHT: Interior view of the University'Library. 
/. 
UPPER LEFT: Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, center, head of the department of music, with 
two students in musical composition; UPPER RIGHT: Professor Richard H. Seidel, former member of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, now Notre Dame professor of music and conductor of Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra; RIGHT: A class in painting; LOWER LEFT: An organ student at practice; LOWER RIGHT: Part of the loaned Bendix tapestries in the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery on the campus. 
/'I 
LEFT: Students in journalism have opportunity for practical experience in THE AVE MARIAPress on the campus; MIDDLHLEFT: Dr. JohnM. Coon­ey, head of the department of journal­ism; MIDDLERIGHT: Rev. Eugene 
P. Burke, C.S.C., head of the depart­ment of English, with Seumas Mac-Manus, prominent Irish miter, on the occasion of the latter's recent visit to the campus; LOWER LEFT: One of the two large reference rooms in the University library; LOWERRIGHT: A Gobelin Diana, one of the Bendix tapestries in the Art Gallery. 
/?-^ 
ABOVE: A class in physical education per­forms a difficult feat; ABOVE, RIGHT: An art class sketching a living model; RIGHT: Professor Charles Phillips, late professor of Eng­lish, and the famous Borgia Fireplace, a part of the Wickett Collection in the Art Gallery; LOWER LEFT: Students in music give a recital; LOWER RIGHT: Professor Frank W. Kelly, head of the department of speech, exam­ines a poster for one of his numerous student plays. 
7*1s 



THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE 
UPPER LEFT: Chemistry Hall; UPPER RIGHT AND MIDDLE: Science students in their laboratory investigations; BELOW: Science Hall. The University is recognized by the Amer­ican Medical Association as an accredited pre­medical school. A proper selection of courses in the College of Science will qualify the student for admission to any medical school. Pharmacy and chemistry are other courses of particular popularity in the College of Science. 
-a^; 
UPPER LEFT: Students, with the financial aid of the FERA, at work mounting specimens in Science Hall; UPPERRIGHT: Rev. Francis J. Wen­ninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science; RIGHT: The museum in Science Hall; BELOW: The internationally fam­ous chemist. Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., inventor of synthetic rubber, at work in his Notre Dame laboratory. 
/>? 

THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
UPPER LEFT: Rev. Thos. A. Steiner, C.S.C., dean of the College of Engineering; ABOVE: The Hall of Engineering, the gift to the University of John F. Cushing, C.E., '06, president of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company; LEFT: Vince Murphy, star high jumper, at work on a generator in the department of electrical engineer­ing; LOWER LEFT: A battery of lathes are part of the equipment in the machine shop; LOWER RIGHT: Chemistry students making their own material for experiments. 
/fi' 
RIGHT: A metallurgy student tussles with one of his experiments in steel testing; MIDDLE LEFT: A completely eqttipped laboratory permits thorough study of telephony; MIDDLERIGHT: Professor F. W. Kervick, head of the department of architecture; LOWER LEFT: An architectural student puts his best efforts on a difficidt problem; LOWER RIGHT: Professor John E. Miller, winner of third prize in the national competition for decorating the new radio theater of WGN, the Chicago TRIBUNE station^, instructs a class in the Architecture Building. 
MfVW VHi.""! '* 
fi=A J^ •<*• 
-^ ^^^ ­
^h  
*:'.wt'  
UNIVER/ITY OF NOTRE DAME I  
Law Ensineerins Commerce Ciiemistry Architecture Science 7 Gymnasium 8 Theatre 9 Freshman =*= 10 St Edward's* 11 Administration, Gold Dome, Brownson and Carroll Dormitories,* Columbian Murals IS Saaed Heart Church, Gregori Paintings, Bernini Altar 13 Grotto of Lourdes 1.4 Coiby* 15 Sorin* 16 Walsh* n First College Building 18 Log Chapel, Founders' Monument  19 Library, Wightman Art Gallery, Bendix Tapestries, Wickett Wood Collection, Historical Exhibits, Archives 20 Lyons* 21 Morrissey* 22 Howard* 23 Badin*, Bookstore, Barber Shop 24 Dining Halls, Cafeteria, Rest Rooms S5 Dillon* 26 Alumni* 27 Post Office A Boat House, Rifle Range B Heating Plant C Freight Depots D Maintenance Shops E Natatoiium F Press G Laundry H Presbytery I Community House  il  
* Residence halls for students.  
W  ND  ND  t  I j  t  ly  i\  
i ^^~^ \  ff  ^-. ­ A  X  ^  r  / ^ r  

'\ 
,--'~V -^/ -^ 
ni-



THE COLLEGE OF LAW 
ABOVE : Thomas F. Konop, dean of the College of Law, 
the oldest Catholic law school in America; RIGHT : The 
beautiftd law library, contaiiiing more than 10,000 vol­umes and rapidly growing under the attention of Profes­sor John H. Whitman, special librarian; BELOW LEFT: Above, the court room in the Law Building and, below, Cardinal Hayes officiating at the dedication of the Law Building; LOWER RIGHT: The exterior of the new $400,000 Law Building. Three years of undergraduate college work, at Notre Dame or elsewhere, are required for admission to the College of Law. 
.,-.T«»<^-.-v>a«.i:>gg«.v-sa-=«iW^gg«g»fPrg«^ 
i,< THE COLLEGE OF COMMERCE 
T5r.' --iwwn-•••.. UPPER LEFT: The eight-foot aluminum globe in the lobby of the Commerce Building; UPPER RIGHT: James E. McCarthy, dean of the College of For­eign and Domestic Commerce: ABOVE: Modern accounting machines are part of the equip­ment for teaching modern ac­counting methods; LEFT: The Commerce Building was a recent gift of the late Edward N. Httr­leyj wartime chairman of the United States Shipping Board and internationally-known business leader. 
t^l 


RELIGION » » » 
LEFT PAGE—U PPERLEFT: Rev. John ]. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, prefect of religion; LOWER LEFT: Mtun altar of Saaed Heart Church, done by the ateliers of Froc-Robert, Paris, and lent to the Philadelphia Centennial Exposi­tion in 1876; LOWER RIGHT: Exterior of Sacred Heart Church. 
RIGHT PAGE—^UPPER LEFT : Most Rev. Amleto Cicognani, apostolic delegate, who presided at the 1934 Commencement; UPPERRIGHT: Inter­ior of Sacred Heart Church at the funeral of the late K. K. Rockne; MIDDLE LEFT: Dillon Hall chapel, one of a dozen student chapels in the various residence halls; MIDDLE RIGHT: Dillon Hall chapel contains the shrine of St. Olaf, erected in memory of the late Mr. Rockne; BELOW: Bacca­laureate Mass at the 1934 Commencement. 
Daily reception of Holy Communion is the distinctive act of worship among the CathoUc students at Notre Dame. En­couraged by good example and ample facilities, this voluntary praaice has grown to a point where, on an average, nearly half the students receive Communion each day. 
^>->.'?.:;i.--.-,~,;. 

M^^^m 
•f 
7m 
A CITY APART 
Notre Dame makes no pretense of trying to shut out the life of the dty hqm the students. They are free to go to Soudi Bend at any time during the day. 
Yet, realizing tiiat the special charm of college life is in the phases wherein it differs from dty life, the Uni­versity encourages students to remain as mucli as possible on the campus. "Thus are dreams dreamt and the beau­tiful and abiding friendships of after-life formed and cultivated." 
Students find little real need to leave the campus or to spend their money on outside activities. Thirteen residence halls—practically all out-of-town students can now be accommodated on the campus—are Ae basis of a happy, varied life. There is interhall competition in sports, debating and oAer fields. Talking pictures are shown, free to students, at least once a week and there are frequent entertainments and lectures of wide variety. Campus stores, shops and other facilities join with all these advantages to make Notre Dame "a dty apart." 
LEFT PAGE—UPPER LEFT: Morrissey Hall decorated for a football game with Purdue; MIDDLE: A $100,000 laundry and cleaning plant and a barber shop are only part of the facilities which make up the "city" of Notre Dame. A postoffice. Western Union telegraph office, shoe repair shop, clothing store, confectionery, an infirm­ary and dispensary—with two physicians and a nursing staff in charge—are also part of the campus; LOWER LEFT: A Dillon Hall Freshman "cracks down" on the booh; LOWER RIGHT: The study room of Brownson Hall, similar in all respects to Carroll Hall which is in the same building. 
RIGHT PAGE—ABOVE: A group of Dillon residents gather in front of their abode; MIDDLE: Pool and bil­liards, ping pong and bowling, all on the campus, are several good reasons why the students don't find it essential to seek diversion in South Bend; LOWER LEFT: A friendly game of cards (no gambling permitted, under severe penalties) passes many happy hours; LOWER RIGHT: Following the team by radio on a tense Satur­day afternoon in the Fall. 

DINING 
'^ii V--iii: 
in. 


HALLS. » 
LEFT: The cafeteria provides ice cream, cigars, cigarettes, candy, magazines and newspapers in addition to excellent food; CENTER: Each of the two wings of the Dining Halls Building seats approidmately 1,000; BELOW: The exterior of the Dining Halls Building. 
Eating together is one of the great tra­ditions of Notre Dame and one of the most important reasons for the famous Notre Dame spirit. Supervised by execu­tives of wide hotel experience, the beautiful Gothic Dining Halls Building, opened in 1927, is today the model of its land in the United States. Interested persons come from all over die country to study its method and efficiency. Li it 3,000 and more people eat three times a day. 
A TYPICAL DAY'S MENU 
BREAKFAST 
Baked Apple Fried Bacon 
Buns Coffee Puffed Rice  Sweet Rolls Milk  
DINNER Puree of Pea Soup  

Roast Veal Mashed Potatoes Brussels Sprouts Chickory-Egg Salad Raisin Pie Coffee Tea Milk 
SUPPER 
Stuffed Pork Tenderloin Au Gratin Potatoes Green Peas Cucumber-Onions-Peppers Coffee Tea Milk 
UPPER RIGHT: Students gathered at the newsstand after a meal; RiGHT: Wholesome salads form an important part of the daily diet; LOWER LEFT: Milk, too, is an essential part of the collegiate menu; LOWERRIGHT: Nu­merous professional chefs use the finest of equipment in preparing Notre Dame meals. 
DEBATING » » 
Acknowledged excellence in the field of oral expression is one of Notre Dame's proudest traditions. Since the first days of the University her debaters and orators have figured prominently among the nations finest in numerous intercollegiate contests. 
Her debate opponents, just in the past decade, have included schools of such prominence as Harvard, Princeton, New York University, Northwestern, Illinois, Purdue, Indiana, Western Reserve, Pittsburgh, Kansas, Florida, Wabash, De Pauw and Michigan State. 
Contributing to the success of debating at Notre Dame is a system of inter-hall debating contests sponsored by the Wranglers, honorary forensic organiza­tion on the campus. These contests attract a surprisingly large number of entrants each year, many of them Freshmen. The rivalry is keen and the results in individual development are very pleasing. 
RIGHT: Joseph Becek, varsity debater takes the floor in an important inter­collegiate contest; MIDDLE RIGHT: Thomas Proctor, president of the Senior Class, is on his feet for Notre Dame in a hot combat; MIDDLE LEFT: Arthur 
J. Korzeneski is president of the Wranglers, honorary organization of campus speakers; BELOW: O'Connor, Locher, Becek and Proctor form one of the debating teams. 
wm 
» 
. THE » THEATRE 
Matters theatrical are ably directed at Notre Dame by the University Theatre, Productions range from the tenseness of "Journey's End" and the classicism of "Richelieu" to the humor of "Charley's Aunt" and the antics of a student vaudeville show. Freshmen talent is especially welcomed by the University Theatre. 
RIGHT: The cast of "Thanks for the Blow" a student vaudeville; LOWER LEFT: Jimmy Marohn and his accordion were an important part of "Thanks for the Blow"; LOWER RIGHT: Washington Hall is the scene of weekly talking pictures, lectures, concerts and student theatricals. 
UPPER LEFT: "The Taming of the Shrew," was one of the recent productions of the University Theatre; UPPER RIGHT: Jim Boyle, winner of the Breen Medal for Oratory, is prominent among the students who gain practical radio experience by helping to operate the campus studio, recently established in the Hall of Engineering by WSET-WFAM, the South Bend TRIB­UNE stations, which are part of the Columbia chain. 
idl 

STUDENT » » » PUBLICATIONS 
LEFT : SCHOLASTIC Editor Tackley wondering about that deadline; CENTER: Complete printing equip­ment in the Ave Maria Press on the campus is a valuable aid to student journalists; BELOW: The SCHOLASTIC is the student news-weekly, SCRIP, the literary quarterly and the DOME, the University annual, published by the Junior Class. 
Student writers, editors and artists find at Notre Dame a wide field for developing their talents. Six student publications, in addition to the interna­tionally-known AVE MARIA, the Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS, the AMERICAN MIDLAND NATURALIST, the ANNALS OF OUR LADY OF LOURDES and the 
Notre Dame RETREATANT, are produced on the campus. Freshmen are eligible to become staff 
I
members of student publications. A complete and modem printing plant on the campus is of spedal assbtance in this field. 
A 3^ 
RIGHT: The SCHOLASTIC sta^ holds a meeting; MIDDLE LEFT: DOME Editor Hruby looks ahead to the appearance of his brain child in May; MIDDLE RIGHT: The DOME staff labors long into the night to get the right picture with the right name; BELOW: The LAWYER is a quarterly review published by Notre Dame law students, the CATALYZER is published monthly by chemistry students and the SANTA MARIA, the publication of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus. 
The Symphony Orchestra, the Band and the Glee Club bring Notre Dame music to the student 
STUDENT MUSIC 
body and to the world. The Glee Club has toured the country from New York to California, has made several recordings both for sound pictures and for disks and has appeared on manv national radio broadcasts. 
The Band plays for all the home football games and basketball games and annually makes one or more trips to football games away from the Uni­versity. The Band has made Victor recordings and has been heard on innumerable national radio programs. Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, head of the department of music, conducts both the Glee Qub and the Band. 
Newer at Notre Dame, but steadily growing in accomplishment and prestige is the Symphony Orchestra under the direction of Professor Richard 
H. Seidel. The Symphony plays several important concerts a year, on the campus and away from it. 
RIGHT: A group of girls at St. Mary's College, 
conducted by the Sisters of Holy Cross,
SOCIAL EVENTS 
the campus of which is just across the highway from the Notre Dame campus; BELOW: The roving photographer caught these pictures at some of the important dances which mark the Notre Dame social year. The Senior Ball, Junior Prom, Sophomore Cotillion, Lawyers' Ball, Knights of Columbus Formal, Engineers' Formal and Monogram Club Formal are the chief dancing events and they are interspersed by several informal dances. On all of these occasions a large proportion of the guests are from St. Mary's College. Notre Dame men are likewise numerous among the guests attending the delightful dances, formal and informal, which St. Mary's offers each year. 
vV/ 


« « SPORTS FOR ALL 
At Notre Dame you have a 1,200-acte campus containing two large lakes, an 18-hole golf course, a large gymnasium, numerous tennis courts, handball courts, attractive paths, a beautiful countryside for walking and almost limit­less space for outdoor games. Students lead a regular life, eat three meals of wholesome, expertly prepared food. Social contacts are recognized as necessary but they are kept on a moderate basis. A well-organized system of intediall athletics among the thirteen residence halls gives every opportunity for physical development. Everybody is encouraged to participate in some sport. 
Such is the real story behind Notre Dame's success in athletics. 
UPPERLEFT: Elmer Layden, athletic director and head football coach, in his playing days one of the immortal Four Horsemen of Notre Dame; LEFT: The Army-Notre Dame game, national foot­ball classic for the past 22 years; LOWER LEFT: A recent pic­ture of the Four Horsemen, left to right, Jimmy Crowley, Elmer Layden, Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreher; LOWER RIGHT: The brilliant and beloved Knute 
K. Rockne of undying fame. 
-m 
UPPER LEVT : Ed "Moose" Krause, All-American in football and basketball; UPPER RIGHT: Head Basketball Coach George E. Keogan; CENTER: Varsity Golf Team with Father G. L. Holderith, C.S.C., coach; LOWER RIGHT: Actioti on the Notre Dame Court; LOWER LEFT: Head Track Coach John P. Nichol­
y>f^' 
UPPER LEFT: Varsity tennis team with Coach Pedro de Lan­dero; UPPER RIGHT: Head Base-hall Coach Clarence J. (Jake) Kline; CENTER: Club House on University 18-hole golf course; LOWER LEFT: Dominic Vairo, 1934 football captain; LOWER RIGHT: Student Swimming Pier. 
y*^t4 
^ TUITION AND GENERAL FEES 
(PER YEAR) 
T 
Kenneth A. Oliver Francis W. Lloyd 
Secretary Comptroller 
For students living in Brownson Dormitory. ^686.00 
For students living in Freshman HalL ^758.00 
(two students to a room) 
For students living in Dillon Hall ^803.00 
(mostly single rooms) 
The halls mentioned above are for freshmen only. Halls for upper­classmen fall v/ilhin these price limits. 
WHAT THE STUDENT RECEIVES: 
Instruction (tuition). Admission to all athletic contests at Notre Dame. 
Board in the University Dining Halls. 
Use of the gymnasium, athletic fields, and the Universitj' 
Lodging. 
golf course. Laundry. Subscription to The Scholastic, the University news 
Medical attention, dbpensary, and infirmary service. weekly. 
Use of general and departmental libraries. Admission to all lectures, concerts, and entertainments A copy of The Dome, the University year-book, in the 
in Washington Hall (the University theater). second semester. 
The above amounts are payable half in September and half in January. 
There is a matriculation fee of ^10.00, payable once only, on first entrance of the student to the University. 
Books, stationery, clothing, and other articles for sale on the campus must be paid for in cash as purchased. 
For certain courses in engineering and science there are laboratory fees and in some courses deposits are required to cover material used and breakage as specified under particu­lar courses in the General Bulletin. 
Special tuition fees are charged for private instruction in art and music. 
For the student residing at home in South Bend or vicin­ity the tuition and general fee is ^150.00, the half year, which entitles him to all the items listed above except board, lodging, and laundry. If confined to the infirmary, the day student pays ^12.00 a week for lodging and meals. 
A deposit of 55.00 must be made with each application. If the applicant be accepted, this deposit is credited on his account; if he be rejected, the deposit is refunded. In case the applicant cancels his application or fails to come to the University, thb deposit is retained by the University to cover the clerical expense involved. 
All mail, telegrams, and express shif5ments should be directed to Notre Dame, Indiana. 
For general or special information, the following officials of the University may be addressed: 
Admission and general information— Mr. Robert B. Riordan, Registrar. 
Financial arrangements and residence assignments— Mr. Kenneth A. Oliver, Secretary. 
University records and soedal curricula— Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Director of Studies. 
fjj-^r^ 
Requirements 
for Admission to the Colleges or 
The Univenity o( Nobe Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Key. ]. L. Carrico, C.S.C. Robert B. Riordan Director of Studies. Registrar 
For the COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING and the COL­the Department of Physical Education), and the COLLEGE OF 
For the COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTEIiS (including 
LEGE OF SCIENCE: COMMERCE: GROUP I GROUP I (All ten units are requited.) (All nine units are required.) English 3 units Geometry, plane 1 unit English 3 units Geometry, plane 1 unit 
History 1 unit *Solid Geometry Y^ ""•' History 1 unit Science 1 imit 
Algebra 1 unit Physics _ 1 unit Algdira 1 unit Language 2 units 
•Advanced Algdira i^uni* Language 2um'ts 
* Students entering the prc-mcdical and pharmacy courses in the College 
of Science arc not required to present credits in Advanced Algebra or GROUP n 
Soh'd Geometry but may substitute a unit in second group. 
(At least three units must be from this group.) English, 4th year. 1 imit Trigonometry Yz imit GROUP II Latin -2 to 4 units Physiography % unit (At least two units must be from this group.) 
Physiology Yz ""it 
Greek .. ..2 to 3 imits English, 4th year. 1 unit Trigonometry Y2 ""'' 
German ..2 to 4 units Astronomy % imit Latin 2 to 4 units Physiography Y2 ™>'t French .. ..2 to 4 units Botany „ ^ imit 
Greek 2 to 3 units Physiology Y2 ""'^ Spanish 2 to 4 tmits Zoology Yz "i"t 
German 2 to 4 units Astronomy Y2 u"'' History % to 2 units Chemistry 1 unit French 2 to 4 units Botany Y2 un't Advanced Algebra. 14 "n't Physics 1 unit Spanish 2 to 4 units Zoology I/2 unit Solid Geometry I/2 unit History Y2 ^° 2 units Chemistry 1 unit 
GROUP  111  GROUP  III  
(Not more than three units.)  (Not more than three units.)  
Commercial,  vocational,  music,  art,  and  similar  subjects  Commercial,  vocational,  music,  art,  and  similar  subjects  
credited toward graduation.  credited toward graduation.  

Total required 15 units Total required 15 units 
Less than I/2 unit in any subject is not counted, and less than 2 units in a language is not counted, except that one unit in an additional language may be counted in Group III if approved hy the Dean. 
The "unit" is the credit for a year of satisfaaory work in any subject in a secondary school,.constituting approximately a quarter of a full year's work, or a minimum of 120 clodc hours or their equivalent in a subject. 
Graduates of standard accredited high schools are admitted upon certification of credits without examination. Students from non-accredited schools should write the College Entrance Examination Board, 431 West 117th Street, New York City, for places and dates of examinations. Applicants are selected on the basis of rank in their class. 
The College of Law requires three years of collie work for entrance. 
For catalogs, application blanks, etc, address: THE REGISTRAR, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
G-E (Campus N^ 
HEATING WITH COLD WATER Reversible air-conditioning equipment, which may be adapted to either heating or cooling, depending on the season, is now in operation in a new building in Salem, N. J. Reversing the cycle of the ordinary household refrigerator, the refrigerant absorbs heat from the water of a well which is at least 52 degrees even in coldest weather. This heat is added to that created by the work of the electrically driven compressors, and the refrigerant at 135 degrees gives up the total heat to the air of the building. Thus it is possible for an expenditure in electric energy equivalent to 100 heat units to obtain a total of 300 or 400 units for heating. Physics students will recognize this system as the heat pump. During the summer, the process is reversed. The heat is absorbed from the air of the building. Then this heat and the heat from the compressors is dis­sipated in the water from the well, which then can be used for bathing, or washing dishes. The building is completely equipped for year-round air conditioning. Besides heating and cooling, the equipment automatically controls the humidity, and cleans and circulates the air. The engineering and the planning for the installation were done by engineers of the American Gas and Electric Company and the General Electric Company, and the equip­ment was built and installed by General Electric. 
FLEA-POWER MOTOR New photoelectric cells, recently developed in the General Electric Research Laboratory, iiimish enough energy to operate a tiny electric motor rated at four ten-millionths of a horsepower. 
These "cells" differ from photoelectric 'itubes" id' that the cells convert; light '^energy into'^^^Iectnc energy, whereas phototubes do not tlmnselVies generate electricity but instead ctmtr^^the amoaht of current permitted to flow through than accocding to the amount of light th^y receive. TUe; cells are of the selenium t}rpe, the selenium being cbatied with a' filmofplatinumsotHmastobesemitrainsparait.'" : Four of'the cells are lised to operate tne'^motor, which in direct sunhght turns at about 40O'i^liI"J"^ But enough Ught energy is converted into electricity, -J when a 73-watt incandescent lamp is lifted eight inches away from the cells, to turn the motor at good speed, using three ten-thousandths of an am­pere^ One watt of power can be obtained from about 15 square feet of cell area in direct sunhght. Dr. C. W. Hewlett, North Carolina State, '06, Ph. D., Johns Hopkins, '12, of^he Research Labora­tory was in charge of investigations that led to the development of the cells and the tiny motor. 
;•>« 
GREEN BLUES • .• -.Bfi: When the G-E "House of Magic" was exhibited at the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia not long ago, the cathode-ray oscillograph was one of the most popular featiu-es. This device, as you nndiwoStedly know, shows the wave shape of any soiin^rniiisic, speech, or just plain noise—^in the ftxm of^afmoviiig, pale greenish-blue line on the end of the,.tiibe.^ ' -'''^^• Rubinoff, -the ' well-known radio violinist and orchestra leader, came down to see how his violm notes looked in the device. He had only a few mo­ments in between eiigagements. But he became so interested after watching the gjrratitHis of the dancing green line when he played "Hnmoresqne" that he stayed for half an hour. He played <», and found that his violin produced gieen notes—even when he played the blues. 
R. H. MigheU, U. of Denver, '29, of the G-E Research Laboratory, was in charge of the exhibit. 
9e-124I>H 
GENERAL » ELECTRIC 
I do believe I'/I try one 
7K>iii^ 
e4^-&Si 
\^ 
fc^^g!^^--^ 
<^
t-V 
f/uy  c////?ee/j sr/////ic/..  \\\ v.www  .MII.I)I:H  
— a/i(j///ie{/r//ic//f sr//.  ;v TAsri; BKTTKR  
M'i-iK'- TobAttu C<  






