The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL. VI CONTENTS FOR MARCH, 1928 NO. 7 
"Hotel Nickel" •. Frontispiece The Notre Dame Club of Chicago—By Daniel E. Hilgartner Jr. '17.. 261 Facts and Fancies 266 The Poetry of Prof. Phillips—By Thomas O'Hagan, LL.D. '17 264 Editorial 269 President's Message—By John P. Murphy, '12 270 Lent from a Catholic Viewpoint—By Byron V. Kanaley, '04... 271 Softly (Poem)—% Norbert Engels, '26 274 Athletics—ST/ J. P. McNamara, '29 275 The Alumni 278 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 inclndr 
a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. 
at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiara, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All corres­
pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box SI, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The Alumni Association 
of the 

University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Headquariers: 329 Adminisiration Building, Notre Dame James E. Armstmng, '25, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EDWARD L. MAUBUS, '93 ---- Honorary President JOHN P , MUBPHY, '12 President JAMES P, O'BRIEN, 'is ------ Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 ------- Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 -------- Treasurer EDWIN C. MCHUGH, 'is-------- Director JOSEPH M. HALEY, »99 --------- Director ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 ---. Director GEORGE M. MAYPOU:, '03 -------- Director DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, '05 --- Director (ex offldo) 



HOTEL NIOKEL 06 
R
R EVERYTHING 
E

E NEW 
U
U 
N
N 
I
I 
O
O <?c<v 
> A •> ' t\ V\, 
N
N L.W^'''^^^v,^ 
ch JK 

o-^ ' c J
J 
U
U 
N
N 
E 
u V ^ ^' 
E 
1
1 
2
2 
TABLE TOP 
TABLE TOP 
3
3 



The old Grill Room made famous by Notre Dame Students 
A magazine wliich seeks to unify Notre Dame spirit among Notre Dame alumni; to keep alive the friendliness and democracy o£ the campus when campus days are gone; to acquaint Notre Dame alumni with the development of the University, and the broader devel­opment of the principles of Catholic education; to oreanize alumni activity so that it may better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Notre Dame men live always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 
tf^^)iinililM!rTi'i.niiriiiiiniiiillll 'I'luiii inmJiiiiiinii|||||[|)[|H|m|)H||[|,|||||i)-| IIIIINMIllilllllliilllllllllimil -Hi 'li' immgfj^ 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago 
By DANIEL E . HILGARTNER, JR., '17 
SE.\SOX FOOXBAL.1. TICKETS OX S.VLE APKIC 1 
J. Arthur Haley, business manager of ath­letics, announces that season tickets for the 1928 season will go on sale April 1. 
The 1928 schedule, just aiuiomiced, k: 
Loyola U. [New Orlesjns] Cartier Field Sept. 29 Wisconsin V. Madison Oct. 6 Xavy Chicago Oct. 13 Georgia Tech Atlanta Oct. 20 Drake V. Cartier Field Oct. 27 Penn State IMiiladelpIiia XOA-. 3 .\rmy Xew York Xov. 10 Carnegie Tech Cartier Field Nov. 17 Southeni California Los Angeles Dec. 1 
Season tickets, which are preferred seJits, will he ten dollars [?10J, as last year. The games included are Loyola V., Drake and Car­negie Tech, on Cartier Field, and the Navy game in Chicago Oct. 13. A i>ayment of tlirce d<illnrs on order will hold a season ticket, the baltuice to be paid Sei>tember 1. 5Iore than thirty-flve liundre«l [.3500] season tickets were sold last yenr. A much larger sale is antici­pated this year. 3Fany persons complained last year that ajiplicntion blanks came during their %-acation period ami were lost. Hence the ear­lier date of mailing. Add twenty cents to price of ticket for i>ostuge. Get your oriler in early. .^FKIL FIRST. AND NO FOOLING! 
The University of Notre Dame Club of Chicago was founded in 1897 by a group of prominent alumni and old students, al­though informal meetings and dinners had been held occasionally for a number of years prior to this time. 
Notre Dame met the University of Chi­cago in football, baseball and track in those days and it was the beginning of this ath­letic relationship that really stimulated the men to organize primarily to entertain the various teams. 
Judge Kickham Scanlan, El. '14, LL.D. '17, was the first President and Mark M. Foote, '73, was the first Secretary of the Club. Among the other men who were active in the organization of the Club were the late Judge John Gibbons, '77, H. V. Hayes, '74, John S. Hummer, '90, Hugh O'Neill, '91, Patrick T. Sullivan, El. '11, 
J. B. Crummy and several others. 
At the first official meeting. Judge Scan­lan said, "We must constitute ourselves and be to our Alma Mater, her guard of honor, to assist in bringing honor to her name and in advancing her work." The complete declaration of the principles of the Club was made into a beautifully engrossed scroll, signed by all the members, and pre­sented to the University at Commencement in 1897 by a committee of which Judge Gibbons was the chairman and spokesman. 
The foundation of a scholarship fund was also attempted during the initial year by conducting a series of lectures by various Catholic bishops, the proceeds of which would make up the fund. Bishop Spalding of Peoria spoke on "Opportunity," under the auspices of the Club in the Chicago Temple of Music. The lecture was "very successful but the diflSculty of securing other bishops or laymen of suflicient promi­nence to attract an audience compelled the officers to abandon the eifort. 
Later the governing body took the form of an Executive Committee of ten members, also known as the Deficit Committee for a significant reason, and composed of such men as Joseph J. Sullivan, '02, Francis O'Shaughnessy, '00, Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Francis H. McKeever, '03, Clement C. 
Mitchell, '02, Anton C. Stephan, '04, Daniel 
J. O'Connor, '05, and others. When Colonel William J. Hoynes, A.M. '77, LL.D. '88, Dean Emeritus of the Col­lege of Law, was made a Knight of Saint Gregory by the Pope, the Club'held a recep­tion in honor of the Colonel and the Com­mittee previously mentioned extended greet­ings in all known languages and a few dead ones, including Latin, Greek and Gae­lic. Nobody could contradict the orator but himself, of course, yet the Colonel knew from the salutation of each address, such as Monsieur Hoynes, Herr Hoynes, Senor Hoynes, Pan Hoyneski or Alpha Beta Gam­ma Hoynes, that he was being honored in a universal manner by the very learned alumni of Chicago. The Welcome Dinner in honor of the Very Reverend James A. Burns, '95, C.S.C. in 1920, when Dr. Burns became President of the University, was another great event in the history of the Club. Three years later the Club extended the same courtesy to the Eeverend Matthew J. Walsh, '03, C.S.C, and gave a Welcome Dinner in honor of the present President, which is also regarded as one of the high lights in the annals of the Club. In recent years the big social events have been the reception and dinner dance for Coach Eockne and the football team after 
the Northwestern games- in 1924 at the Edgewater Beach hotel, of which Edward 
W. Gould, '23, was Chairman, in 1926 at the Palmer House, when Austin A. Mc-Nichols, '17, was Chairman and last fall the great banquet after the U. S. C. game, attended by twenty-five hundred alumni, old students and their friends, of which George M. Maypole, '03, was Chairman. On these occasions the speakers table was graced by the presence of such men as Vice-President Dawes after the North­wstern game in 1926, the President of the University, the Mayor of Chicago and Bishop Hoban of the Archdiocese of Chi­cago at the three affairs just described, and Bishop Noll of Fort Wayne, President Kelly of the South Park Board, Vice-President Hoffman of the University of Southern California and Mayor Cryer of Los Angeles after the U. S. C. game in 1927, which is indicative • of the influence of the Club in the civic life of Chicago and the graduate life of the University. 
The present day Club has a definite pro-gi-am of activities besides the regular weekly luncheon meetings held every Thurs­day at 12:30 in the College Inn of the Hotel Sherman to which out of town alumni and old students are invited whenever they are in Chicago. 
At the beginning of every year officers are elected at the "annual dinner" and they function, too, because the candidates arc carefully selected in advance by a Nominat­ing Committee. 
Universal Notre Dame Night has been observed enthusiastically by the Club each year since "the Night" was instituted and 
•with increasing popularity. The May Dance is one of the oldest tradi­tions of the Club and many of the Old Guard who never otherwise think of danc­ing turn out for this party. An organized effort is always made by the Club to return in a body for the Alumni Keunion in June during Commencement Week. Badges are provided each member, on which is printed the name of the Club and by which the Chicago alumni may be identified. During the football season the Club pro­vides telegraphic returns of all the im­portant away from home games played by the Varsity. Crowds of five and six hun­dred or more have attended the returns of the Navy, of the Army and U. S. C. games. The reception and banquet by the Club after the annual football game played here on Soldiers Field is also one of the latest functions to which we all look forward. This year the Club will entertain the Navy on October 13 and a committee is already at work on the plans. Thirteen standing committees are ap­pointed to conduct these various activities, including a Weekly Luncheon, Universal Night, May Dance, Commencement, Foot­ball Eeturns, Annual Game, Membership, Publicity, Nominating and Eesolutions, Vo­cational, Scholarship and Annual Dinner Committee. The Chairman of each one calls a meet­ing of his Committee immediately after their appointment, outlines a plan and 
assigns specific duties to each member of his Committee, which in turn is supervised by a member of the Board of Governors. 
Thus the work of the year is divided among 
a large number of men and the President 
and general officers know that it is going 
to be done. 
The most important services are rendered 
by the Vocational and by the Scholarship 
Committees. The Vocational Committee, of 
which John F. Cushing, '06, president of 
The Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., is 
Chairman, operates primarily for members 
of the Club, but will advise any alumnus 
or old student of the possibilities in his field 
in the Chicago territory and endeavor to 
secure a position for him. 
This Committee also co-operates with the 
Employment Bureau maintained by the 
Association. More than twenty men were 
definitely and directly placed last year. The 
various phases of industry are represented 
by such men as the Chairman in the civil 
and mechanical engineering field, Arthur 
J. Hughes, '11, investment and banking; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, '15, the legal field; John Tully, '11, radio and electrical en­gineering world; Dr. Bernard Malloy, '03, medicine, and Judge Stanley A. Klarkowski, civic work and utilities. 
Daniel J. O'Connor, '05, former president of the Association, is Chairman of the Scholarship Committee, composed of Byron 
V. Kanaley, '04, Francis O'Shaughnessy, '00, Mark L. Duncan, '15, and James E. Sanford, '15. This service is formally kno\\Ti as the Educational Aid Fund of the University of Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
This Fund has been established for the principal purpose of aiding young men with financial assistance, who desire to continue their studies at Notre Dame, but who are unable to do so because of insufficient finances or inability to otherwise borrow funds. 
Only students who have been enrolled at the University and who are recommended by the University Eegistrar are eligible for Educational Aid Service, and only those students who reside in Chicago or the suburbs, and who are graduates of either public or parochial high schools in Chicago or suburbs shall be entitled to Educational Aid Service. No discrimination shall be made between Catholic and non-Catholic. 
Upon recommendation by the Eegistrar of the University and the endorsement by the Scholarship Committee, definite amounts 
will be credited to the applicant. No money 
is paid to the student. It is placed.to the 
credit of his account w-ith the University 
in the form of a loan for which he signs a 
note. 
Funds are obtained in four different ways: 
(a)
 Special underwriting pledges to be given by one hundred members of the Club. 

(b)
 Apportionment of one-half of the annual dues paid to the Treasurer of the Club. 

(c)
 Special contributions made by Club members or friends of the University. 

(d)
 Surplus funds remaining in the treasury of the Club at the end of its fiscal year. 


The Club also assists the Association in 
a financial way whenever it is practical. 
Last year the Chicago Club subscribed 
$500 from its treasury to the General 
Alumni Fund. This year the Club has 
financed the current issue of the Alumnus 
with the hope that other local clubs will 
follow suit, according to plan devised by 
the General Secretary. 
Another progressive idea of service to all members on which the Club is now working is the publication of a local membership Directory, including the name, degree, year, business and home address and telephone number of every Notre Dame man, alum­nus or old student, now living in Chicago or the suburbs. 
The cost is defrayed by the advertising space sold in the Directory, so that the Club will be able to give a copy to every member without any expense to the in­dividual or the Club. The balance of the revenue derived goes to the Scholarship Fund. 
This Directory is going to press soon. Notre Dame men in the Chicago territory who have not received a notice should com­municate at once with the Directory Com­mittee, Suite 938, 11 South LaSalle street, who also will be glad to quote advertising rates to any outside alumnus interested in telling Chicago what they do or sell in other parts of the country. 
Numbered among the past president of the Club are the late Judge John Gibbons, '77; Judge Kickham Scanlan, El. '14; Hugh O'Neill, '91; Francis O'Shaughnessy, '00; Joseph J. Sullivan, '02; Francis H. Mc-Keever, '03; Byron V. Kanaley, '04; Daniel 
J. O'Connor, '05; Michael F. Girten, El. '14; John B. Kanaley, '09; Harold P. Fisher, '06; Fred L. Steers, '11; Francis H. Hayes, '14; Thomas J. Shaughnessy, '15; James E. Sanford, '15; Daniel E. Hilgartner Jr., '17; George M. Maypole, '03, and Norman C. Barry, '21. 
The preesnt officers are Mark M. Foote, '73, Honorary President; Joseph J. Sulli­van, '02, President; First Vice-President, Daniel C. Curtis, '17; Second Vice-Presi­dent, Alfred C. Eyan, '20; James H. Bren­nan, '20, Treasurer, and Thomas C. Dono­van, '24, Secretary of the Club. 
The Board of Governors is composed of Norman C. Barry, '21; Edward W. Gould, '23; Francis H. Hayes, '14; Daniel E. Hil­gartner Jr., '17; George M. Maypole, '03; John M. Montague, '23; Richard J. Nash, '23; Daniel J. O'Connor, '05, and Eigney J. Sackley, '17. 
Everybody out for Universal Night! It's going to be the best yet! 

The Poetry of Professor Phillips 
By THOMAS O'HAGAN, LL.D., '17 
(Editor's Note: The following article on Prof. Phillips poetry comes i-ather soon after several other notes on his recent vol­ume "High In Her Tower," but the Editor believes that the criticism of Prof. Phillips by such a distinguished and loyal Notre Dame alumnus as Di-. O'Hagan is vei-y much worth reading. The criticism goes ' beyond the recent volume and analyzes the spirit of Prof. Phillips that finds only a 
partial outpouring in his latest work.) 
It is now seventeen or eighteen years since Charles Phillips, M.A., of Notre Dame University, then Editor of the San Fran­cisco Monitor published, in brochure form, his poem, "Back Home." It attracted wide attention. In it was revealed a genuine poet—one who can transfigure the simple things in life—give them concrete beauty and a place among the eternities of heaven. 
The great nustake made today, in the ap­praisement of poetry, is that we magnify technique and the artistic, forgetting that, after* all, neither one nor the other consti­tutes the supreme life or value of a true poem. We have this artistic sense so over­done that, in ninety percent of the poems that appear in our current magazines, there is no evidence of the least inspiration, nor is there any thought that could not be just as well expressed in prose form. 
We know, too, full well that poetry is of the soul; it is vision; it is imagination; it is fire. Yes, fire fi-om the altar of true inspiration borne by the thurifers of God who stand eternally at the altar of Truth and Beauty and serve God in the great temple of Life. 
Now after eighteen years. Professor Phillips gives us in "High in Her Tower" his first published volume of vei-se. In the interval he has been dx-eaming his divinest dreams. Day by day, like the Lady of Shalott, he has been weaving a "magic web with colors gay;" but unlike Tennyson's Lady of Shalott, Professor Phillips has not stepped down from his spiritual heights. On the contrary, "High in Her Tower" re­veals, at a glance, its informing life—the spiritual. Prof. Phillips, too, is a poet of memory as our Canadian poet, Frechette was. Phillips inscribes this volume to the laureate of California, Miss Ina Coolbrith, poetic co-worker in days agone, with Bret Harte, Charles Warren Stoddard and Joa­quin Miller. 
We think our author has done well to have, during those eighteen years, lived and dreamed within his poetic cloister, and shunned the publisher; for there is a great deal too much poetry challenging the reader today—^poetry not of heaven but of the earth earthly. How many of the would-be poets of our day trail their A\angs in the dust; moving along so low a plane that their poetry, if indeed it may be termed poetiy, has caught the color and stain of the earth. 
Prof. Phillips has gone into what the Italians call raccoglimento—^meditation or reflection; and this beautiful and rich vol­ume of poetry is the fruit of his many years of cloistral thought and communion with his soul. 
Are we not today overwhelmed ynth poetic mediocrity? What is worse, there is today little poetic judgment among men. Magazines of poetry are as thick as aero­planes in a favorable sky. They have be­come a kind of "movie" dissipation. Har­riet Monroe will surely have much to an­swer foi*. She has both bred and nourished them. And when all this rubbish is swept off our planet the clean poetic streets of God A\'ill lie before us, wholesome and sweet with the breath of the masters. We hear again in the organ tones of a Milton and Dante, a Tennyson and a Wordsworth. 
"High in Her Tower" is a volume of a little more than one hundred pages. It is a sane and wholesome book containing in all sixty-eight poems with the prevailing themes marked off. 
During the last ten years. Prof. Phillips has seen a good deal of life; and his mind and spirit have been quickened and en­riched under alien skies. His soul res­ponsive to the thrall of beauty has gai-nered rich poetic stores, some of which is housed within the covers of this book of verse. 
With the memory of Prof. Phillips' first poetic adventui-e, the writer naturally turned to the section in his volume marked "Back Home;" and here I find his beauti­ful poems, "Willow Eiver," a souvenir of boyhood, linking his memories to those dis­tant days, when care-free he ranged the fields and woods and streams of his birth-land. "Willow River" is a poem of the heart, canonized by the higher Ansion of the soul, and seen through the prism of mem­ory. How accurate is it not in character­ization and in association. Here are two of its opening stanzas: 
••Rome I have loved and by the Tiber's stream 
Dreamed once again the poet's classic dream 
Where living spires above dead splendors gleam. 
Firenze under the white Appenine snows 
Holds still ray heart as long as Arno flows 
Deep swelling with the tide of Dante's woes." 
This poem is followed by one of great del­icacy and feeling—"My Mother's Beads." What a note of sincerity rings through this unique poem mth its irregular metre, its emotional pauses, its occasional rhymes. It is surely a wonderful poetic offering; Listen to this: 
"How God must hearken when a Mother pleads. And Heaven hush all its harps and lifted voices To listen to her counting out her beads! So on this little chain Nightly she tells her needs. Turning to holy mysteries— To Bethlehem, to Calvary, To Eesurrection's riven tomb— Conning tlie old sweet sacred story, Uneartlily gladness, pain-pierced glory. Of Mother-love and love divine For strength to bear her pain. For strength to suffer mine!" 
In the section of his volume marked "Of Books" are tvvo poems by Prof. Phillips of exceptional merit: "Reading Homer" and "Reading Shelley." The conception and characterization in the latter as well as the pictorial similes struck off are rarely fine. Here is the whole poem: 
"Torent and cloud—and a tide of light— Wine of a golden beam; Windblown pipe and a wild, wild harp struck in the moonlight's dream. 
Challenge and song and the tears of a god Shaking the humid air— iloon that melts in a swimming sky. Star that burns like a prayer. 
Lark—and the dawn in a waft of dew: Moon that is overbright— Dusk, and tlie moth, and a lonely wave Crying against the night." 
In the work of Professor Phillips there is truly both promise and performance. His ripe thought and fruitful experience cannot but lead him to still higher poetic achievements. 


rACrS AND TANCICS 
Campus Game Preserve 
Brother Alphonsus, C.S.C., has completed plans whereby Notre Dame will become an official bird sanctuary. Brother Alphonsus was assisted by D. K. Stephenson of South Bend, owner of a sanctuary in iMichigan. Notre Daine is the first school in Indiana to take steps to protect migratory birds. The plans have been approved by Very Eev. 
J. A. Bums, C.S.C., Provincial. Monogram Absurdities 
Final dates for the production of the an­nual Monogram Absurdities have been set­tled upon as Tuesday and Wednesday, March 27 and 28. John Wallace, former star and now manager, is putting on the show in Washington Hall. Frank Kelly, Vince Fagan and Vince Engels are con­tributing material and direction. Those who have seen the show know enough. Those who haven't would never believe. 
Junior Prom Success 
The 1929 Prom was held Friday, Feb. 10, with all the beauty and chivalry of previous Proms. The Palais Eoyal was decorated as much as the capacity crowd permitted. An orchestra from Chicago supplied the neces­sary soft music. The attendance was es­timated at 900. William Loughran, Hazel-ton, Pa., was chairman of the affair. 
N. D. Orator Places 
James Roy, Fort Wayne, a Junior A.B., was awarded second place in the Indiana Intercollegiate oratorical contest, held at Purdue U. Feb. 17. Wabash won first place for the third consecutive year, Roy was winner of the Breen Medal last year and is a member of the Wranglers and Scribblers Clubs on the campus. 
Debaters Convene Here 
The Wranglers Club, undergraduate de­bate-organization, is sponsoringtthis year... an Indiana High School Debating and Ora­torical Convention, to be held at Notre Dame the last of April. The purpose is to stimulate oratory and debating in Indiana high schools. The convention includes con­tests with medal awards for the vnnners. Joseph P. McNamara, president of the Wranglers, is in charge of arrangements. 
Alumnus With LIBERTY 
The Alumni Office was pleased to locate Denis, A. Morrison, Litt. B. '10, through the information of Francis X. Cull. Mr. Mor­rison is now Assistant Editor of LIBERTY MAGAZINE, 247 Park Avenue, New York City. Mr. Morrison's address was lost some years ago and it was through an in­quiry of Mr. Cull that he was found. He has had contacts with K. K. Rockne and with the editor of THE DOME, he writes, and is planning to visit Notre Dame this spring or summer. 
Prof. Phillips at Indiana 
Prof. Charles Phillips of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, was the Washington's Birthday speaker at Indiana University, the first time a Catholic lay­man has ever been invited to speak there upon this occasion. Prof. Phillips has won much favorable criticism for his defense of Washington against the attacks of several recent biographers, and delivered an excel­lent address to the students of the State University on this topic. 
K. of C. 1477 Active 
The Notre Dame Council of the K. of C. is going along at its usual brisk pace, if not more so. Brother Leo Mclntyi-e, a jour­nalist of ability, has made of the February SANTA MARIA a new milestone in the history of that publication. Called "The Past Grand Knights Number", the issue contains articles by many of the prominent figures in the history of the organization, and contains all the history and statistics of the Council, the first college Council in America. Among the outstanding names are John C. TuUy, first Grand Knight, W. 
L. Benitz, James F. Hines, Earl S. Dick­ens, Joseph P. Smith, Rev. E. V. Mooney, C.S.C, Martin W. Lammers, Rev. F. P. Goodall,-C.S.C.,.Rev. T., J. Tobin, Alden J. Cusick, Alfred N. Slaggert, Henry F. Bam­hart, Mark E. Nolan, Harry A. McGuire, Arthur J. Bidwill and Robert Irmiger,— 
G. Ks. in order mentioned. The annual Spring Formal of the Council will be held April 27. Two large classes of candidates have been initiated this year, the last one Feb. 19. 
LAST CHANCE 
If you have your candidates for Presi­dent, Vice-Pi-esident, Treasurer and Direc­tor picked out, let the Committee know. They probably want advice, as naming a slate is not easy. The names and addresses of the Committee are as follows: 
Committee 1—William E. Cotter, '13, 30 E. 42nd St., New York City; Frank X, Cull, '08, Bulkley BIdg., Cleveland; Leroy 
J. Reach, '08, 108 S. Delaware St., Indian­
apolis, Ind. Committee 2—^Thomas A. Dockweiler, '12, 
I. N. Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif.; Fred L. Steers, '11, First Nat'L Bank Bldg., Chicago; William J. Granfield, '13, State Bldg., 1200 Main St., Springfield, Mass. 


THE ALUMNI CLUBS 
CHIC.4GO 
The Publicity Committee of the Chicago Club sends in the following: 
They were all out, from many of last year's graduates to our oldest living alumnus, at the an­nual meeting of the Chicago Club for the election of officers, Tuesday evening, February 21, at the Hamilton Club. 
The Reverend P. J. Carroll, '11, C.S.C, Vice-President of the Universitj-, the guest of honor and speaker of the evening, was accompanied by Father W. Connerton, '20, C.S.C, who extended greetings from Alma Mater. The Honorable Mar­cus A. Kavanauffh, LD.D., '05, Judge of the Su­perior Court, also spoke briefly, because he said ho was as anxious as the rest of us to hear Father Carroll's message. 
The Vice-President reviewed the personalities and accomplishments of the Presidents of the Uni­versity from Sorin the Founder to Walsh the Builder, as he characterized them, in a very in­teresting manner and interspersed his talk with many brilliant witticisms. Father Carroll con­cluded with a serious reminder of our duties as alumni of Xotre Dame, which must have inspired everyone to renew, revive or increase his loyalty, interest and activitj-, as the case miglit be. 
Next the motion pictures of the Notre Dame-Southern California football game were shown. This iilm was taken especially for the Club under the direction of George M. JEaypole, '03, who was General Chairman of the N.D.-U.S.C. Game Com­mittee. It is a complete photographic record from the time of the arrival of the teams to the last play of the historic battle on Soldiers Field. A copy of the film has been presented by the Club to the University and to the University of South­ern California. 
Then A. A. Van "Wonterghem, '19, introduced a resolution of commendation of the work of the retiring officers, which was adopted by acclama­tion. A resolution of appreciation of the interest end co-operation of Mayor Thompson and of the City Council upon the occasion of the N.D.-U.S.C. game, presented by J. M. Jlontague, '23, was also passed. 
Daniel J. O'Connor, "05, explained the purpose 
of the new Directory of the Club now being com­
piled, and urged the cooperation of all members of the Club. This is the first attempt of any local alumni club of our Association to publish a permanent directory of its membership. 
George M. Maypole, '03, then announced that the Club was going to sponsor this issue of the .\lum­
nus and called upon everyone to give their sup­port for its financial success as an example for the other local clubs to do likewise. 
James H. Brennan, '20, Secretary of the Club, and Richard A. Griffin, '24, Treasurer of the Club, respectively, next read their annual reports, both of which were unanimously accepted and deserv­ing of great praise for the amount of work they did in office. 
The results of the election were made known by Norman C. Barry, '21, the retiring president, who acted as toastmaster of the evening. Mark M. Foote, '73, our oldest living alumnus, was declared Honorary President, an honor which this dearly beloved Notre Dame man richly deserved because of his loyalty, interest and tireless activity In the work of the Club, since it was founded in 1897. 
Joseph J. Sullivan, '02, was elected President: Daniel C. Curtis, '17, First Vice-President; Alfred 
C. Ryan, '20, Second Vice-President; James H. Brennan, "20, Treasurer; and Thomas C. Donovan, '24, Secretary of the Club. 
Daniel J. O'Connor, '05, Norman C. Barry, '21, and John M. Montangue. '23, were elected to the Board of Governors to fill the places of a. cor­responding number of members whose term of office expired. 
Joe Sullivan, who is a prominent attorney in charge of the Legal Department of the Board of Local Improvements of the City of Chicago, said in his inaugural address that he deeply appre­ciated the honor bestowed upon him by his fellow members and Avith their co-operation he would do his best to make 192S the greatest year in the history of the Club. 
Alfred C. Ryan, '20, Chairman of the Arrange­ments Committee for the Annual Dinner, was very ably assisted by Austin A. McNichols, '17, Vice-Chairman, Maurice Dacy, '23, and Francis Mc­Fadden, '24. Al's ability as an organizer was again demonstrated by the faultless way things clicked throughout the very enjoyable evening. 
XEW YORK 
The May edition of THE ALUMNUS has been engaged by the New York Club under the plan 
outlined last month and is just another instance 
of the co-operation and activity of the Metro­
politan group. They haven't slowed up a bit on 
their regular program for the year as witness;: 
"On Stonday evening, February 13, the N.D. Club 
of the City of New York held tlieir Valentine 
Party. Jim Hayes was chairman so you can be 
sure it was successful. Joe Gargan, Jim Hayes, 
Frank Wallace and Frank Kolars oranized a quar­
tette that sent fortli volumes of harmony that it 
was just nobody's business. Bill Keary gave a 
burlesque of a slow motion skating act l)eing nobly 
supported by Jerry Cudahy and Alex Colgan. 
"Some of the boys from the Clef Club provided 
the music and when those boys play the A'ictoiT 
JIarch it is always time to be 'on with the 
dance'." 
And again: . . . Arrangements have been made with aisgr. Chadwick, Pastor of St. Agnes' Church —just opposite the Grand Central Terminal on 43rd Street—to receive Holy Communion at the eight o'clock Mass, JIarch 2. Confessions will be heard during the Slass." And after this splendid opening of the Lenten season John Balfe writes: 
"The first Club Communion was quite success­ful and among those we saw present were: Jim Dwyer, Bill Reid, Ed Bourke, .Toe Burlie, Art Cooke, Al Adrian, Alex Colgan, Ambrose O'Connell, Eddie Fallon, John Balfe, Jack Adams, Lou "Wag­ner and Bill Murphy. It was quite an event for those present and a distinct loss for the absent fellows." 
CIXCIXXATI Leo Du Bois is bringing Cincinnati into the Spring limelight. He has just sent out a list of 
N.D. men in Cincinnati for the members to check over for corrections—a good idea for all the Clubs. The Club is holding luncheon meetings the first and third Tuesdays on each month, 12:30 Main Dining Hall, Chamber of Commerce. The questionnaire asks for the business affiliations of tlie members to promote business contacts of members. 
AKKOX 
Akron fell victim to circumstances last month. The Alumni Films were routed to be in Columbus Thursday night, Feb. IG, and in Akron the fol­lowing night. But somehow the trip was longer than anticipated, and Frank Steel's gang were Avithout the precious reels. But fortunately the dinner and evening following were spent in tribute to Harry Cahill who was married Feb. 13 to Sliss Anna Kodden of Akron. 
KOCHESTEK 
Gerry Smith writes that the Rochester party and moving picture sliow -was a success. It com­bined with the movies a duck and sauerkraut dinner at the Liederkranz Hall. The Club is talking up a big Easter Dance for the under­graduates. Gerry says the Rochester press is more .filled with N.D. news than with the several colleges around and in the city itself, which shows what a live Club can do. The Club is con­sidering permanent quarters in a new IC. of C. Hall just completed. 
KENTUCKY Eddie Pfeiffer sends in the following story of the N.D. Club of Kentucky: 
The Kentucky Club held its Annual meeting tor 
election of officers of Feb. 13. It was the most 
enthusiastic gathering of Notre Dame men, at the 
Kentucky Hotel, which started with a banquet 
and then ran into a real Notre Dame "pep" meet­
ing. The following officers were elected for the 
coming year: 
Mr. C. J. Pfeiffer. President, '23. 407 JIartin 
Brown Bldg.; Mr. F. X. Wall, 1st Vice-Pres. 'SO; 
Mr. Wm. H. Jlills, 2nd Vice-Pres. '04; Jlr. E. H. 
Pfeiffer, Secretary, '22, 407 Martin Brown Bldg.; 
Mr. Kenneth Hammond, Treasurer, '25. 
The Board of Directors were as follows: Ex-
President Campbell. '17; Mr. R. N. Wathen, '27; 
Mr. IC B. Barry, '17; Mr. Joe McGee, '2G, Mr. 
Norbin Arehart, '27. 
From the interest shown at this meeting, we will predict that the year of 1D2S will show im­mense progress in the Notre Dame Club of Ken­tucky. 
BUFFALO 
Paul Hoeffler, ex-Sec. of the Buffalo Club, writes that Buffalo is prospering and still bubbling from Roclc's recent visit. Paul says Rock was the first speaker he ever heard encored until he added to his original speech. Paul painted ati in­teresting picture of Rock, Jay Lee and liimself crowded into a Ford roadster. Tom Kenny, Put Newman, Ed Baker and Joe Shea, in various capacities, were mentioned in Paul's letter. 
W.4BASH VAIiLEY The Wabash A'^alley is getting set for a Big 
N.D. Night according to Herman Kamp. The Club had a meeting Feb. 10 at which full plans for the Night were perfected, but Herman didn't outline them. 
EASTEKX PEXNSYUVAXIA 
The East-Penn undergraduates are planning a "Father Devers' Night" for March 15. in the faculty dining room of the New Hall. Father Devers, who was ill for two months at his Iiome in Scranton, has just returned to the University. 
COXXECTICUT V.\LLEY 
Prospects for the future alumni of the Connecti­cut Valley show the fine work, too, that the alum­ni already there are .doing. A note from the un­dergraduate group from that section says: 
At a recent meeting of tlie Connecticut Valley Club of the University of Notre Dame, the fol­lowing officers were elected to serve for the com­ing year: President, Thomas C. Shea, '29, of Chicopee Falls, 
Mass. A'ice-President, Willard F. Wagner, 1929 L, of Greenfield, Mass. Secretary, Daniel D. Halpin, '31, of New Haven. Conn. Treasurer, John M. Vianci, '29, of New Britain, Conn. 
The membership includes all undergraduates of Notre Dame, who live within a radius of 75 miles of Hartford, Conn., Among the members are: John D. Smith of Hartford, Conn., Captain of Football, 1927; Joseph G. Jachym, of Westfield. Mass., Captain of the 1927-2S Baskeball team, and Robert F. Walsh of Meriden Conn., the son of "Big" Ed Walsh of Major League fame. 

CDITOPIAL 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
Paul Eevere said, "One if by land, and two if by sea." The Alumni Office hangs out for your approval THREE signals. This Universal Notre Dame Night is going to come by land and sea. 
From Paris, France, on the East, across the Atlantic and through this country from New York to San Fi-ancisco, on out over the Pacific to Manila, the message has gone. It has gone into South America and Mexico, and if "Wolf" Moore hadn't sent mail back unclaimed it would have gone to Ketchi­kan, Alaska. 
Everybody knows what the Night is. Four other Nights have spread its fame among thousands of people outside Notre Dame alumni circles. It has come to mean a national tribute to a national institution. Your Community, if you've ever celebrated the Night, expects you to celebrate it again with increased fervoi*. 
There is no limit to the possibilities of the Alumni Clubs. Whether you are just beginning your Club Life, or whether you are as well organized as the splendid Club which is sponsoring this issue of THE ALUMNUS, there still remains an unlimited field for you. Alumni work is in its in­fancy. It is, however, beginning to observe the world around it and realize the need for development. The Clubs are a vital part of the association that will handle this development. 
In most of the recognized "Notre Dame centers" the Clubs will take care of them­selves. New York, Chicago, Denver, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Indianapolis, Cleve­land, New Jersey, and the other Clubs whose names appear rather regularly in the Ciub section of THE ALUMNUS, need only this announcement of the date. 
But the success of the Association and 
the future of Notre Dame alumni, and 
through them of Notre Dame, will be 
measured to a gi-eat extent, by the increase of activity in the less populous and promi­nent Notre Dame communities. If the small groups of N. D. men in these places have the mutual enthusiasm to organize, not on a large scale or for the frequent meetings of the larger Clubs, but for some concrete expression of the strong ties that bind them, then the outlook will be good. 
The Alumni Office has tried to sound out many of these communities. Most of thenj have responded. But there are undoubtedly many others where even the existence of an N. D. group has been missed. Men move about, particulai-ly the non-gi-aduates, and are lost to the Office records. But these men are Notre Dame men, often as loyal and active as any of the degree men. If your community has a group of fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, almost any number in fact, don't wait for the imperfect faculties of the Alumni Office to discover you—^VOL­UNTEEE! Organize your owTi Club. The Office will gladly fumish details. And if you don't want a formal organization, or haven't time to work on it, get together for April 23 anyhow. Time will do the rest. 
REUNIONS Under the 1923 Class Notes IN JUNE appears the evidence that all 
Reunion records are to be brok­en by the Skiddoo Class. Johnny Montagus, peppy secretary, is being followed by a peppy proportion of his class in planning the event. THE ALUMNUS hopes that the other Reunion Classes, 1878, the Golden Reunion Class, 1886-87-88-89, the Dix Classes; 1903, the Silver Reunion Class, and 1905-06-07-08, the other Dix Plan group, will be here in proportionately large num­bers. Bui Alumni everjwhere are urged to remember that formal Reunion plans will never nullify the old custom that every year is Reunion year for the Classes of Notre Dame. Come back in June! 
f 
President's Message 
To NOTRE DAME MEN: Let's go back to Notre Dame! You're really not too busy. Your problems won't miss you for a night. Your wife will gladly let you go, because you're coming back better and happier. It isn't going to be hard to do either. It entails no traveling, aside from a very thrilling ride for the imagination back to Notre Dame on a train of memories. And oh, such memories! You ^\ill see yourself stripped of the years that have crept on you unawares since graduation. The cares that accompany this struggle for economic existence will be forgotten for the moment while you are back in spirit at old Notre Dame—at Notre Dame as it was in your last year, or as it used to be on your return from other long vacations. No, you will not have to ask or want permission to go downto%vn to the Oliver, or to the LaSalle, or to call on the girls you used to know, for that matter. You'll .be too interested in the old gang to give more than a fleeting thought of St. Mary's. Of course, the old gang will have stories to tell—and you will have a lot to tell them about your past experiences; in fact, I can see you now settling the affairs of the world— your Noti-e Dame world. How can we go back to Notre Dame? And when do we go That's easy! Just a few things are necessary. The time is A2}ril 23rd. The occasion is Universal Notre Dame Night. The place is any place where other Notre Dame men are gathering. If there are no Notre Dame men in your community, then your observ­ance of the occasion may be after the fashion of Hamlet's soliloquy, alone by your ash receiver, watching the old days go by on the campus thru the smoke of a good cigar. Like all other trips, of course, you've got to get ready for it. You've got to think about it in the meantime and make preparations. You've got to get the old Notre Dame songs together, some of the old Notre Dame magazines. Perhaps you have a phonograph record of the Victory March and the Hike Song. If you haven't, it isn't too late to get them. Write to Jim Armstrong, our secretary at Notre Dame, and he will tell you how to get them. It's going to be easier and better if there are other Notre Dame men in your community. Arrange with them for meeting together, and then, on that night, think Notre Dame thoughts, sing Notre Dame songs, and let your imagination do the rest. Hundreds of others all over this country, or wherever they happen to be, will be going that very thing. The boys now on the campus have already planned to greet you and be with you in spirit. And thus Universal Notre Dame Night will Ue fittingly observed. Let's go back to Notre Dame! JOHN P. MURPHY, President. 


Lent From a Catholic Viewpoint 
By BYRON V. KANALEY, '04 
(Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, '04, a Trustee of the University, spoke in Bond Chapel of the University of Chicago, Wednesday night, February 29th, by invitation of the Board of Religion and Social Service of the University on "The Meaning of Lent From a Catholic View-point." The Board pro­poses to print MI-. Kanaley's address in the University publications. Following are some excerpts:) 
I feel rather at home tonight in the presence of this audience and responding to this invitation. It is easy to discern the splendid feeling of religious toleration man­ifested by this invitation and by your presence, for I was bred, academically, in an atmosphere of religious toleration and kindly feeling toward honest men of all religious beliefs. At Notre Dame, while almost needless to state she is unswerving and uncompromising in her loyalty and de­votion to the teaching of the Catholic Church, although probably 10 percent of her total enrollment of 3,000 boys, is not Catholic, yet there Catholic and Protestant and Jew live their collegiate lives side by side in closest daily contact and harmony and friendship. . . . 
Three members of the Lay Board of Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, including the president-elect of the Board, are not Catholics, and one of these three, Mr. Frank E. Hering, is a University of Chicago man, quarterback under Mi". Stagg's coaching, on the team of 1894, and who, by the way, directed by Mr. Stagg, was the first player to make use of the for­ward pass in football. , Mr. Hering, J.for over a quarter of a century, has been de­voted to all the interests of Notre Dame. Until his death a short time ago, Mr. Max Pam, a Jew, was a valued member of the Board, and a iine and loyal friend of Notre Dame. Among other evidences of his kindly interest he founded and endowed our school of journalism. We have at least three University of Chicago men among our faculty at the present time. . . . 
I should like to say before starting on our subject that gatherings like this are another evidence in a way that there exists in our colleges and universities an interest in things of religion. There have been many reasons advanced, which we won't go into now, for the apparent decline of re­ligious interest in many of our American colleges, but there has been one reason at least that has been proven false by the 
• collegiate deeds of real men—that reason was this—that religion belonged to the sen­timental and to the weak. That idea died when devout religion as practiced in our colleges was found not incompatible with collegiate athletic heroism. To name only a few—men like Hector Cowan, of Prince­ton, that knightly Christian gentleman, Gordon Brown, Captain of Yale, the almost saintly Marshall Newell, of Harvard, and if I may be permitted one more instance from my own university that proves that courage and chivalry on the field of foot­ball battle, at least, are not inconsistent with Christian devotion and practice, when I mention that the teams of Notre Dame in a body attend church on the morning of a football game, and they always join in a body in a simple prayer before going on the field of battle, and I think it cannot be fairly said that those particular young men are made soft, or weak, or mawkishly sentimental by devotional Christion prac­tice. And I understand this is a practice of some other teams of universities of other religious beliefs. Or what better example could, be chosen than that of the.exemplary . Christian gentleman,- honqred;and, lespected = by friend and foe alike, who presides over the athletic destinies of your great institu­tion? A gentleman who is held in honor and respect, and athletic fear as well, by all the foemen of the land? Who has been for nearly 36 years an influence for incal­
culable good among the athletes and the boys of this University , which far trans­cends in real worth to the University of Chicago and to the community at large his very great ability as athletic in­structor? . . . 
This is the sort of opportunity, occasion and audience, that ought to be sought by a Catholic layman. It seems to me we have far too much kept to ourselves in matters of religion. We have mingled with the world on terms of closest friendship and in­timacy in art, in science, in learning, in the professions, in commerce—^but in religion we have far too often neglected the oppor­tunity to explain our position which when once placed before fair-minded and intelli­gent people always results in better re­ligious friendship and understanding. The Catholic layman is often too prone to regard his religious position to be so unassailably fixed by the logic and the history of tht; centuries, so iniper\aous to attack in mat­ters of dogma and morals, that he doesn't deem it necessary, or worth his while, to make his position understandable to those of our brethren who differ from us—and as Catholic laymen rather than Catholic clergjrmen are oftenest in contact with non-Catholic laymen—^this attitude is the cause of much of the misunderstanding among our friends as to what some Catholic devo­tions really mean. . . . 
Lent means to the Catholic a particular season set apart of the year, which is the springtime, for a striving for a recrudes­cence of the spirit, a recalling in a special manner of the things of the soul, a con­templation of the life to come and a review of the life that has passed, a reawakening or strengthening of faith, a stirring of the Idealization of the essence of Christianity which is the love of God and love of neigh­bor, and to the Catholic definitely, and per­haps to those not of our Faith who observe Lent, unconsciously, a season of penance,— by the Catholic by fasting, by prayer and by meditation, perhaps by those who differ from us, by meditation alone. 
The Catholic Church in an especial man­ner by the devotions and instructions of the Church, during Lent, which is 40 days in remembrance of our Sa\aour's fast in the desert, and which prepares us for the great solemnity of His Resurrection at Easter, seeks to awaken in her children the inspira­tion to a better life by prayer and by pen­ance and by devout contemplation of the suffering and death upon the cross of Him who has been through the centuries since, the sustenance and the life and the hope of uncounted millions who have striven through Him for the betterment of man­kind and the salvation of their immortal souls. 
The prudent man of business once a year takes special stock of his enterprise. He once a year, in particular, casts up his accounts, strikes his balance, takes his in­ventory, finds out where his business is tending, and lays his plans for the future. This, in homely phrase, in effect, in a re­ligious way, is what a Catholic does dui-­ing Lent. He takes special stock of his eternal enterprise,' he casts up his spiritual accounts, he takes the inventory of his soul, he finds out where his spiritual matters are tending, he lays his spiritual plans for this life and the hereatfer. He endeavors in an especial manner during Lent, as one of the children of the Father, to show his rever­ent appreciation of the suffei-ing and self-appointed death of the Son of God who, we believe, by His suffering and death upon the cross redeemed us and who has pointed the way of redemption for all mankind. . . 
The forty days' fast which we call Lent is the church's preparation for Easter, the greatest festal occasion in the Church, which celebrates the Resurrection of our Lord. It was instituted very early in the history of the Church. In most languages the names given to the fast signify the number of the days, forty. But our word Lent signifies the spring fast; for although the word Lent is of Teutonic origin yet Lenten-tide in the Saxon, was the season of spring. It is a time consecrated by our Church in an especial manner to penance; and this penance is mainly practiced by fasting. Fasting is an abstinence which man voluntarily imposes upon himself as an expiation for sin, and which, during Lent, is practiced in obedience to the general law of the Church. The Scriptures, both of the old and New Testament, contain many allu­sions to the beneficial practice of fasting. As one writer comments, "And, odd to state, there is not a civilization nor a religion re­gardless of how far it may have drifted 
from its original moorings, which does not 
bear testimony to its belief that man may 
appease his God by subjecting his body to 
penance." 
Lent begins, as we know, on Ash Wednes­
day. The church places the sign of the 
Cross, in ashes, upon the foreheads of her 
children to remind them of the finitude and 
brevity of human life—and that we are of 
dust and to dust we shall all return. 
Throughout Lent there are special sermons 
in our churches dealing with our Saviour's 
life upon earth. His crucifixion and death, 
and His Resurrection on Easter Sunday. 
The way of the Cross, or the Stations of 
the Cross more familiarly known, is a beau­
tiful devotion during Lent which I presume 
is of interest to the seeker of the truth of 
what Lent means to a Catholic. 
You hear much today in the present sys­tem of education of the project method and visual education. Well, this is centuries old in the Catholic Church. The Church has made use of this since the beginning of the Christian era in her Churches throughout the world by her statues, her altars, her glorious windows, and all the magnificent pomp and ceremonial of her de­votional exercises. And in no way is thi.s visual and project method more effective than in the Stations of the Cross said dur­ing Lent. 
You perhaps have noticed on the walls of a Catholic Church pictured in fourteen separate scenes, perhaps in painting, in stone, in marble, in mosaic perhaps, the great drama of sacred history—beginning with the sentencing of our Lord to death through His carrying His cross through the streets of Jerusalem to Calvary, His Crucifixion and His burial in the sepulchre. Some of the finest and gi-eatest works of the incomparable painters and artists of the golden age of painting and the fine arts —the period of the Middle Ages, were in­spired by, and dedicated to, the devotion of the Way of the Cross. The prayer of the forty houi's' devotion was established by Pope Clement in 1592. By means of this project method—this visual method in de­picting the last hours and death of our Saviour, there is brought more forcefully and poignantly and distinctly before the minds of the Catholic worshipping in any Catholic Church in the world the story of 
the Crucifixion. The painting or the sculp­
ture as such mean nothing, and their sole 
value and purposes is to remind the beholder 
of the thought that lies behind them and of 
which these figures are mere symbols. . . . 
However, before I close, I \vish to make 
one point veiy clear. It is the view of the 
Catholic that there is not the fullest merit 
in the mere mechanical performance of the 
devotions of Lent. This is only a part of 
the duty of a Catholic. Please do not un­
derstand that the Catholic Church teaches, 
which it emphatically does not, and there­
fore that the Catholic layman believes, that 
a mere negative observance of Lent, is a 
full observance of Lent. There prevails too 
commonly an erroneous opinion among some 
of our friends who differ from us in re­
ligious belief, that the Catholic believes that 
the observance of the ritual alone without 
the good daily life and good deed to back it 
up, is sufficient. That is not the teaching 
of the Catholic Church, and therefore not 
the belief of the Catholic layman. . . . 
We cannot live as Catholic laymen self-contained lives. And the lesson of Lent, to Catholics, is not only an awakening or strengthening of the Faith, a penance for wnrongful acts, a recrudescence of the spirit, but it is a pointing of the way for just and honest dealings with all the rest of men in daily life. It means a widening and a deepening of our sense of responsibility, social, civic and political. It means the tak­ing of our proper part in the righting of wrongs, it means the fostering and the sharpening of a sense of justice, it means the active espousing of the cause of the poor and oppressed. It means taking part in the every day life of our community— in its organizations that are working for public or private well-being and assisting them with our money as well as with our energy and influence. .. . 
And to this end, I can think of no more beautiful supplication than the words of Cardinal Newman, you perhaps ^vill recall them: 
"May He support us all the day long, till the shades lengthen, and the evening comes, and the busy world is hushed, and the fever of life is over, and our work is done! Then in His mercy may He give us a safe lodging, and a holy rest, and peace at the last." 

Softly 
NORBERT ENGELS, '26* 
Softly ... 
As the xvind-stolen petal Drops lightly on. the silver-shadoived pool And rests, too slim and slenderly fragile For liands less tender than the mist, and cool. 
Softly ... 
As the voice that sings to me From out the flight ivhen ghostly figures tvalk Among the dusky silences, and talk To one another, heard so distantly. 
Softly . . . 
As the tread of angel feet Upon the clouds; silver and lightning meet In quietness. So softly . . . as the hreath Of xvind-hloivn roses tending her in death. 
Softly . . . 
As the winds roll doivn the hill, Stirring the sleeping leaves of yesterday; Turning the tvakeful side of memory That has so long slept quiet there, and still. 
Softly . . . 
As the tvarm midsummer rain Beats upon my burning lips and eyes, And closes them from the atvakened pain That flames with long-re^nemhered sacrifice. 
V envoi. My heart is quieted in the deep softness here; But tvhere you are, is there a softness too, my dear? Among the tangled roots of cypress and the deiv. And hreath of wind-bloivn roses over you. 
• Korbert and Vincent Engels. '23, both members of the Arts and Letters faculty, have appeared in various publications. The Editor of AMERICA recently described a poem by Xorbert as one of the finest pieces from a Catholic pen that he had seen in several years. 
J. p. MCNAMABA 


ATHLETICS 
BASKKTBAtt 
The full schedule for 1927-2S follows: Dec. 5—Armour Institute 12, N.D. 37. Dec. 9—Illinois AVesleyan 23, N.D. 40. Dec. 12—Iowa at Iowa City 20, X.D. 23. Dec. 20—Northwestern at N.D., 25, N.D. 2S. Dec. 23—Minneapolis at Minneapolis IS, N.D. 2a. Dec. 29—Northwestern at Evanston 25, N.D. 23. Dec. 31—Princeton at N.D., 24, N.D. 35. Jan. 7—Penn. at Philadelphia, 2S, N.D. 30. Jan. 13—Franklin at Notre Dame, 24, N.D. 36. Jan. 17—^^Vabash at Notre Dame, 19, N.D. 30. Jan. 21—Drake at Des Moines, 19, N.D. 29. Jan. 2S—Michigan State at N.D., 25, N.D. 29. Feb. 3—Mich. State at East Lansing, 2G, N.D. 16. Felj. 7—Wisconsin at Madison, 14, N.D. 21. Fel>. 11—Butler at Notre Dame, 24, N.D. 34. Feb. 17—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh, 19, N.D. 31. Feb. IS—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, 24, N.D. 22. Feb. 22—Marquette at Milwaukee, 13, N.D. 21. Feb. 25—Drake at Notre Darae, 33; N.D. 12. Feb. 29—AVabash at Crawfordsville, 26, N.D. 30. Mar. 3—Marquette at Notre Dame, 19, N.D. 24. Mar. 7—Butler at Indianapolis, 21, N. D. 13. 
(Ed. Note: The Editor of THE ALUMNUS has taken great pleasure in watching the almost sensational development of Notre Dame athletics during the year. Knute Eockne took considerable new material in football and lost only one game during a brilliant season, that to the ever alert Army. The Notre Dame eleven tied the powerful Minnesota team in an epic on Cartier Field. That was, unreasonable as it may be, expected of the Wizard of the Grid. 
Dr. George Keogan lost four men of All-Western caliber from his '26-'27 basketball team. This season he took a comparatively green team, first and second year players, and won 18 out of 22 games against the toughest basketball material in the game. The Notre Dame five held the Pittsburgh five, heralded as the outstanding team of the country, to a two point victory, and that largely by virtue of playing not wisely but too well. So now Dr. Keogan has laid him­self open to the vision of an undefeated season next year when most of these same high-powered competitors return the Notre Dame visits. 
Coach John Nicholson was given his first year to build up a team and there was a mutual agreement to overlook the matter of victories. Illinois came in early and strong-and the agreement was held to rigidly. But without much warning the Notre Dame outfit suddenly annexed Marquette, a formidable foe usually, followed closely by-Wisconsin, last year's Conference champs, and March 3, by super-efFort, Notre Dame won the Central Intercollegiate Meet against a classy field of 15 non-Conference schools. 
Now Coach Tommy Mills' baseball team takes the limelight with the most preten­tious baseball schedule the Editor remem­bers. If it turns out at all after the fash­ion of the sports preceding it, the Millen­nium is not so far away as I had thought. 
In the meantime Eock has subdivided. Cartier Field and is preparing to plug the decided gap left by the graduation of ten monogram men and the loss of "Hunk" An­derson. 
BASKETBALL 
Coach Keogan's quintet concluded a very successful season by permitting Butler to dedicate its fieldhouse at the Irish expense. It looked too, perhaps, as though twenty-two games against America's toughest competition had wearied the Notre Dame team, most of whom were new to college competition. But the squad turned in eighteen victories out of these t^venty-two games; lost by only two points to Pitts­burgh and Northwestern and had real off-nights against Michigan State and Butler.. It was really more than anyone expected of the new team or of Coach Keogan, and the record is regarded as an achievement, for both. 
Butler was beaten 34-24 at Notre Dame in a spirited contest that foreshadowed the Indianapolis college's play in the season's­
W 
n 

CENTRAL INTERCOLLEGIATE TRACK CHAMPIONS, 1928 
final game. Notre Dame traveled east Notre Dame took Mai'quette twice with­home floor and had overcome a stilf Wabash Feb. 17 and warmed up with a 31-19 vic­out difficulty, though the fight of the Mil­resistance at Crawfordsville to emerge 30-26 tory over Carnegie Tech before tackling waukee quintet should not be minimized. over Coach Vaughan's five. the undefeated Pitt team. The game against The first game in Milwaukee was 21-13, on The final game with Butler was really Pitt wasn't so satisfactory, but the final Feb. 23. The second game was at N. D., much better than the score indicates. Notre score was Pitt 24, N. D. 22, a remarkable March 3, when the Irish triumphed 24-19. Dame fought on even terms and better for feat in the face of Pitt's previous average In the meantime Notre Dame had trimmed the first half, ending 11-9. But the Butler of around 50 points a game. Drake, 33-12, in an erratic game on the crowd, about 10,000 in the giant new field­house, was yelling for blood (and almost got it when a section of temporary bleach­ers collapsed, but fortunately injured no one badly). In the second half the enter­taining five took the reins, launched an offensive that was too much for the tired 
N. D. team and maintained a defense that held Notre Dame to two points. The fact that Messrs. Kearns and Schonimer called not a single personal on Butler in the second half cut down a source of Notre Dame income that had looked promising in the first half. 
TRACK 
Jack Elder, who has run the 60-yard dash in 6 1-5 too often to doubt that he is threatening the world's record of that time, has featured the Irish track season. Coach Nicholson has developed other men who have turned in surprising marks, and the Notre Dame victories have confirmed rumors of unexepected strength. 
In the Marquette meet Notre Dame over­whelmed the visitors 65 2-3 to 38 1-3 by using Illinois' tactics in piling up seconds and thirds. Notre Dame scored slams in the shot put and the broad jump. Bov in the pole vault, :Capt. Griffin in the hurdles, the BrowTi brothers in the distance runs, have been the most consistent men. 
Notre Dame's victory over Wisconsin, 
Big Ten champs, was surprising. The 
score ^vas 48 2-3 to 36 1-3. Elder clicked 
the 60-yard dash in 6 1-5 again. Notre 
Dame took the pole vault, mile run, high 
jump, high hurdles and shot put in addi­
tion. Aside from Elder's mark and an :08 
flat for the high hurdles, the marks were 
not outstanding. 
The Central Intercollegiate brought out 
the talent. Fifteen mid-west colleges were 
entered. An idea of the caliber of the 
competition is gleaned from the fact that 
foLi- men high jumped 6 feet 3 5-8 inches 
official measurement, and three of them 
tied for first at an inch higher. Elder once 
more tied the world's record in the 60-yard 
dash. Coach Nicholson sprung a surprise 
in the relay team of Abbott, Kelly, Mc-
Gauley and Leahy, who romped to a victory 
that gave N. D. the championship without 
even exerting themselves. Bov pole vaulted 
12 feet 6 inches for a tie for first and just 
missed on 13 feet. Capt. Griffin was dis­
qualified in the hurdles. 
X. D. B.ASEB.U.I. SCHEDULE—1938 
April 3—Tt. Beniiingr, there April 4—Tt, BenninK, there .April 5—Ft. Bemilngr, there April 6—^Iiuuisiana State, Baton Bouge April 7—Iiouisinna State, Baton Ronge Ai>ril 9—^liOjola, Xeu- Orleans April 10—^Loyola, >'ew Orleans April 11—Spring: Ilill, Mobile April 12—Spring- Hill, Mobile April 13—Vandeibilt, XasliTille April 17—^Kalamazoo, N. D. April 21—Iowa, 5f. D. 
April 24—W. S. Xornial, X. D. .•\l>ril 27—^AVabasli, Crawfonlville .'Vpril 28—^Butler,'Jndianaxwlis 3Iay 1—Slinnesota, X. D. May 4—^^Vcst Tirsinia, X. D. May S—West A'irglnia, X. D. May 8—^Wabasli, X. D. May 10—^Luther, Pecorah, la. yiay 11—Coe, Ce<lar Itapids May 12—Iowa, Iowa City May 14—Bradley, X. D. May 15—^Xorthwestern, Et-anstoa yiay 18—^Illinois, Cham'iaitm Jlay 19—St. A'iator, Buurbonnais 
Muy 22—Butler, X. D. 3I«y 24—^Jlicli. State, E. Lansing 3Iay 26—St. Viator, X. D. June 1—Indiana, BlooniinKtun June 2—Mich. State, X.D. [Csmniencem'tJ June 3—^'illanova, Philadelphia Jnne <>—Holy Cross, Worcester June 7—^Boston College, Boston June 9—Hhn-ard, Boston June 11—^Xew Hampshire, Durham June 14—I'roiidence, Providen«'e June 13—^Amherst, Amherst Julie 16—Cornell, Itliaca 
"HUNK" ANDERSON RESIGNS 
The news might better read, perhaps, that Eock's right bower has signed up as head coach of St. Louis University, ^vith "Chile" Walsh, '27 end, as his assistant. But the first thought of Notre Dame men is going to be Hunk's loss to Notre Dame. No one who has watched N. D. teams play has missed the line coaching that reflected Hunk's efforts. Rock has praised him publicly so that practically all of you have heard the fine things he said on various occasions. Hunk takes with him to St. Louis and his new work all the good will that an appreciative school and admiring fellow-alumni can give him. His work there will be watched with intense interest and every hope for complete success. . 

THE ALUMNI 
Commencement June 1, 2 and 3 
"Plan Now To Be Back 
CLASS SECRETAEIES 
Before 1880—Mark M. Foote, 501 City Hall, Chicago. (50-yr. Class 1878) 1880-1885—^Prof. Robert M. Anderson, Stevens Inst, of Tech., Hoboken, N. J. 1886—Michael O. Bums, 338 S. 2nd St., Hamilton, O. 1887—^Hon. 'Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich. 1888—John L. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. 1889—Hon. James V. O'Donnell, 420 Reaper Block, Chicago 1890-1893—Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave., Min­neapolis, Minn. 1894—Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York Times, New York City 1895—Eustace Cullinan. Sr., 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 1896—"William P. Burns, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Ind. 1897—Joseph V. Sullivan, 2650 Lake View Drive, Chicago. 1898—F. Henry AVurzer. Buhl Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 1899—^Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Bldg., Peoria 1900—^Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago 1901—Joseph J. Sullivan, 160 N. LaSalle St., Chicago 1902—Peter P. McElligott, 320 "W. 23rd St., New York aty. 1903—THE TWENTY-FIVE YEAR CLASS—Francis 
P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bidg., Milwaukee, Wis. 1904—Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Ind. 1905—Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle Street, 
Chicago 1906—Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldg., Spo­kane, Wash. 1907—T. Paul McGannon, Bar Bldg., 36 W. 44th St., 
New York City 1908—Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Bldg., Cleveland, O. 1909—John B. Kanaley, 29 La Salle St., Chicago. 1910—^Rev. M. L. Moriarty. 527 Beall Ave., Wooster, 
Ohio 1911—Fred L. Steers, 1635 First Natl. Bank Bldg., Chicago 1912—Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, Sandusky, O. 
1913—James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleve­land, O. 
1914—Frank H. Hayes, 25 N. Dearborn St., Chicago. 1915—James E. Sanford, N. W. Ayer & Sons, 164 
W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago. 1916—Timothy P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg., 
Hammond, Ind. 1917—John U. Riley, 146 Oliver St., Boston, Mass. 1918—John A. Lemmer, 309 S. Seventh St., Escana­
ba, Mich. 1919—Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce St., Gary, Ind. 1920—^Vincent Fagan, Notre Dame, Ind. 1921—Alden J. Cuack, 1940 Curtis St., Denver, Colo. 1922—Frank Blasius, Jr., 24 W. Main St., Logan. O. 1923—John Montague, 7028 Cregier Ave., Chicago. 
1924—Richard T. Gibbons, 520 Homer Laughlin Bldg., 
Los Angeles, Calif. 1905—John W. Scallan, 240 E. Delaware PI., Chicago. 1926—Gerald W. Hayes, Northwestern School of Med­
icine, Chicago. 1927—Edmund De aercq. South Bend, Indiana. 
DE.4THS JOHN CONBOY, LL.B. '16, died March 1 in Albuquerque, Xew Mexico, Mr. Conboy was for­merly a resident of Michigan City but his health failed and he moved to Albuquerque several years ago as representative of the International Harves­ter Co. He is survived by his widow, his mother, Mrs. Julia Conboy of Michigan City; a brother Devitt Conboy, and a sister, Mrs. Hugh McGuiness, of Chicago. Another sister, Mrs. Lester Mayer died several months ago. Funeral services were held from St. Mary's Church, Michigan City, on March 5. Very Rev. James Burns, C.S.C, whose home was in Michi­gan City, and Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, a classmate of Mr. Conboy. attended the funeral. 
JOSEPH WHEL.\X, 5S, Cincinnati, Ohio, a for­mer student at Xotte Dame, died in the Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati Fob. 19. Mr. Whelan had been in ill health for two years but his death was unexpected and he died two hours after being removed to the hospital. He was a partner in the Whelan Express Co., 133 E. Third St., Cincinnati. He is survived by a sister and two brothers. 
THE ALUMXUS extends the sympathy of the -Association to LEO J. HERBERT, '27, whose father, Edward Herbert, died suddenly in Rock Island. Mr. Herbert was a pioneer resident of Rock Island. 
31ARRIAGES, ETC. 
Mr. and llrs. Neil Brown announce the mar­riage of their dauhter Catherine Jeanette to MR. JOHX MELiVIN EOHRBACH. '23. on Saturday. February 4, at Notre Dame. And the Editor might never have known it if JOE JIENGER hadn't sent a picture of the Iioneymooners en-Joying San Antonio climate with 3Ir. and Jlrs. :MrKE NEEDHAM lending color to the scene. Jlel and his bride are taking an overland honeymoon before settling down as much as couples can set­tle in the romantic atmosphere of Crown Point. 
llr. and Jlrs. Louis J. Ulber have announced the marriage of their daughter Gertrude to MR. MAURICE JAMES DACET. '23, on Saturday, Feb­ruary 11, in Chicago. Mr. and Mrs. Dacey will be at home after April 1 at 1919 Berteau Avenue, Chicago. 
In a fine letter to Prof. W. L. Benitz, accom­panied by a number of interesting photographs, 
•EZEQUIEL
 REY DE CASTRO, '23, says among otiier things, "My business runs so nicely, I have decided to leave them for a year or two, while I make a little honeymoon trip. Tes, I intend to marry in about April . . . Before going to the States, I plan on going to Europe and perhaps to Asia, as I have always wanted to know China, India and Japan. From tliere we go to dear old 

N.
 D. where I surely hope to see you." Con­gratulations can be cabled to P. O. Box C7, Are­quipa, Peru. 


BILL, GALLIGAN, who is in Sao Paolo. Brazil, spreading parts of General Motors over that well-known country, has already added a good Amer­ican to the population. Bill had a son born to his wife on Lincoln's Birthday, in their new home: 
PEKSOXAL 1898 
Lasting fame in the game of golf came to FRANK E. HERING, '9S, "02, while competing in the annual tournament of the Belleair Stone Crabs at Belleair Heights. Fla., Feb. IG. Mr. Hering made the 15th hole of the famous course in one stroke, using a mid-mashie. The tee is 13G yards from the center of the green. It was the first time in the long history of the annual Stone Crabs tournament that a contestant made a hole In a single stroke. Mr. Hering is also .secretary of the Belleair sharpshooters club, of which J. 
M. Studebaker, Jr.. of. South Bend is president. 
190.5 BE B.ACK IX JCXE: 
Take a look at the frontispiece of this issue. Read the notes for the three years following this. If it doesn't bring up enough memories to make you want to come back you ought to do something about yourself. 
DAN O'CONNOR has been down several times recently contributing his efficient services in sev­eral University matters. It seems probable that the pattern for a standard ideal alumnus would rather closely resemble Dan, who also serves on the Board of Directors of the Association. 
1906 THIXKIXG OF JCXE? The writer was looking through the famous DOME of '06, the pioneer of a long and illustrious 
line. The beautiful illustrations of T. DART WALKER are still impressive. The faces of many of the faculty are present yet at Notre Dame, but little changed for all the years—Father Cava­naugh. Father Crumley, Father Schumacher. Col. Hoynes, Dean McCue, Profs. Benitz, Maurus. ,A.ckerman and Green. Dr. Berteling is now an outstanding physician in South Bend. 
How about having the '06 Varsity Quartette back? All of that organization have entered the priesthood. FATHER HUGH M'CAULET, F-\THER JOHN M'GINN and FATHER GENE 
BURKE in  the  Holy  Cross  Congregation,  and  
FATHER  ZERHU SEN,  a  Secular  priest  in  Au­ 
burn,  Ind.  

JOHN SHE.A. has been in Massachusetts politics as the prophecy in the DOME predicted. Instead of being in Denver managing the street railways, CHARLIE EOESCH is with General Electric in Schenectady. FATHER M'GINN isn't the Bishop of Omaha, but with RT. REV. GEORGE FINNI­GAN, '10, Bishop of Jlontana, the prophet wasn't so far off. FATHER JIM GALL.A.GAN has a tougher job than President of St. Ed's on his hands, being rector of Sorin Hall. 
JIM DUBBS is with the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., so his clairvoyant place with the gov­ernment as tender of the channels and banks of the upper Mississippi was a remarkable shot. FATHER JOHN RTAN, true to the letter, is a professor at the University, and an eminent Cath­olic historian. JOHN GUSHING, like Dubbs, is with the Great Lakes Co. and the vision of him supervising a canal between Lakes Erie and Mich­igan wasn't without its soundness. FATHER CH.A.RLES DOREMUS is still smiling, but his diplomacy consists in keeping up the relations of Lyons Hall on the West Coast of the Campus' with the rest of the University. 
Louie Nickel's is history. Tou won't find that rendezvous, but South Bend offers you bigger and better—rendezvous. 
These are a few of the things that interested us. How much they naust mean to you who were a part of them. Come back in June and find out how your classmates have fared. See how Notre Dame has changed, and yet how it has held the Notre Dame yoii know. 
E. M. MORRIS is all tied in a number of com­panies that have grown through his efficient management into one of South Bend's leading enterprises. For instance, at a recent meeting of stockholders, Mr. Morris was named and re­named as follows: president of the Associates In­vestment Co.; president of the Morris Finance Co.; direcor of both organizations; director of the Farmers' Security Co.; and director of the Motor Underwriters Co. 
190­CIRCLE JUNE 1, 2, 3 OX TOUR CAUBXDAR 
Read the foregoing column. Tou remember tliese men. Seniors when you were Juniors. Come back and meet them. Come back and nieet your classmates who took their places on the teams in the organizations, in Sorin Hall, [and in Louie Nickel's], when they were gone. 
1908 
RE-r>nOX OF COLLEGE GRADUATES 
The "Old Boys" of 1908 To Be Present at Com­
mencement Exercises of the Class of 1928 
[Editor's Note: The following is a rather un­
usual document. It is "Through The Eyes of the 
Prophet," the Class History of 190S, which ap­
peared in the DOSIE of that year. This year 
the Class does hold a reunion, under the Dix plan. 
Many of the men mentioned will return, and 
many of the men who were in school with them, 
members of the Classes of '05, '06 and '07. Com­
pare the following bit of clairvoyance, done by 
JOHN "W. "CAP" ROACH, Ph.B., 'OS, and then 
come back in June to see how close he came. 
Here's one close one—FATHER LENNARTZ, fore­
seen as pastor of St. Patrick's, is pastor of St. 
Joseph's. Not bad for a start. But I pity "Cap" 
when Father Cavanaugh gets hold of him.] 
The Class of 190S, which is probably the most 
successful class ever graduated from the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame, will meet to-morrow for 
the first time .... 
Thus it read, down the whole front page. Only, 
they might have told the whole truth and so left 
off that good-for-nothing 'probably'. I had not 
finished reading our lineup of eulogies when a 
small cyclone struck the paper from my hands, 
caught me in a mad embrace and 'hollered' in 
my ear in tones of joy: "C.-V.P ROACH! Old Cap 
Roach! I'd know you in the-Fiji Islands, with 
nothing on but an eyeglass!" and his bear-hug 
reduced my five-dollar preferencia to ruin. Who 
else could it be but PARISH—old VARNUM, of 
the big heart and happy smile! I recognized him 
at once in spite of his grey temples and his three 
hundred pounds of averdupois. The old-time 
•heartiness of manner and the perennially bland smile identified him. But there were some changes that amounted almost to inconsistencies —a waxed moustache, a diamond shirt-stud, and a suavity of manner that could mean only one thing; instinctively I asked him how- long he had been in the hotel business. 
"All of eighteen years," he answered, and 
l.iughed. "I taught History and Economics for 
two years at Inter-Laken, but didn't like it, and 
so drifted naturally back to South Bend and the 
immediate neighborhood of Notre Dame. I am 
out there as often as I can "skive" away from 
business—sometimes to give an informal lecture 
or to be judge of a debating contest, and some­
time^ just to walk around the place and talk 
with the professors. I have two boys there now, 
myself." 
"Good for you!" I exclaimed, with approval. "I 
see you have sort of adopted the University. But 
now, lets hit the trail for your hotel. I'm hungry 
enough to eat shredded wheat." 
We took an electric cab to the Parish House, which was known to us of old as The Oliver. It was to be the rendezvous, so Parish insisted, of the old crowd and the .scene of their convention. I found no signatures on the register before mine —familiar signatures, I mean,—though ZINK and M'PARTLIN had sent in a wireless the night be­fore, saying that they would be in about day­break. They were traveling overland in an air­
ship from San Francisco, where, McPartlin, the 
loud-voiced criminal lawyer, had his home. Zink 
—or rather The Hon. Francis A. Zink, as the 
papers put it—was our U. S. Ambassador at the 
Court of St. James, I knew that before, but did 
not know that he was visiting McPartlin. What 
had detained them we could only conjecture, for 
their course was as the crow flies, and crows are 
often erratic; Solomon, I think, had he been 
"wise," would have added another thing to his 
list of non-understandables—"the way of an air­
ship in the air." 
T\'e were still weighing the chances of a collision along the air-line against a miscalculation in direc­tion, with the odds in favor of the former, when a commotion outside brought us to the door. We '.vere just in time to see a long, dragon-shaped airship make the final plunge from the regions of mid-air and come to a stop, panting and snort­ing, in the air-ship station on the roof-garden above. In a minute and a half Zink and McPart­lin were with uS—laughing, talking, hand-shaking, slapping-on-the-back, and boasting at the same time. They had the best-behaved air-ship ever built, they declared; and the fact that it had been designed by SIMON O'BRIEN, designer for TREVINO, CAPARO & RUBIO Co., Jlanufactur­ers,—all men of '08—made it doubly dear to them. But for all of that I was not to be persuaded to take the swallow route to the Universitj'. "I'll call a cab," I said, and started for the 'Phone. 
"Neither cab nor airship goeS!" Parish inter­posed. "The WALDORF & BROGAN automobile firm has sent twelve of their cars from Elkhart for the use of the 'OS bunch." 
"Tou don't mean 'Bumper,' our old twirler, and Captain 'Brog'?" demanded Zink excitedly. 
"Sure!" answered Parish. "Didn't you know that they were manufacturing "go-carts?" They turn out the best "wagons' in the country except one—the Kokomo, made by HAINES & Co. I have just phoned to the stable for a couple of the machines, and to the city hall for MAYOR BERTELING, our old class president, and CHIEF­OF-POLICE CALLICRATE." 
"Cally!" shouted JlcPartlin, "In a blue coat and brass buttons! That beats me. Well, at any rate, it will be a hard proposition that he'll be afraid to tackle." 
A few minutes later, after a happy meeting with our upliolders of the law, we were speeding up a long asphalt boulevard that we used to call "the Avenue." 
"By the way. Doc," said Parish, as we sped along, "I heard from JOHNSON yesterday. He says he will let his New York-Chicago Subway job rest a few^ days. I expect him in this morn­ing." 
""Good! And how about SALEY?" 
"I don't even know where Saley is. A few years after we left College I heard that he mar­ried ^liss—well, I don't remember her name now, but she was the girl whose picture he had in a frame on his desk. After that he just seemed to drop out of existence. But wherever he is, if he is the Saley of old, he would not trade the girl for all the fame and honor and money in the whole world." 
"What's that?" I asked, pointing to a magni­
ficent six-story brown brick structure upon the site of the old barn buildings. 
"That's the College of Economics," replied 
JIayor Berteling, who sat beside me. "That's the 
one ED KENNEDY'S money bought. Ed., you 
know, is president of the United States Steel Cor­
poration. That white tower over there," the 
mayor continued, turning half-way around in the 
auto, "is the library. It is a perfect gem. T. 
Dart Walker supervised the decorating and did 
all the frescoing himself. There's nothing like 
it in the United States. You can't see tlie new 
Club- Building from here, for the Library hides it. 
That's Alumni Hall and that, Walsh Hall," he 
wont on, indicating two beautiful white stone 
buildings on opposite sides of the driveway Sur­
prise and joy at the growtli and beauty of our 
old college home kept us silent. Another moment 
and our auto glided noiselessly up to the Main 
Administration Building, in front of the grand 
portico which had supplanted the old porch of 
other days. Many hands were stretched out to 
grasp our own, and fond greetings from cheerj­
hearts of old friends fell pleasantly upon our 
ears. A venerable old man stood at the top of the 
flight, waiting to welcome us. He leaned slightly 
on. a cane and his white liair fell, like a patri­
atch's, to his shoulders. He reached forth his 
hand to greet me, and over the gracious features 
there spread a smile of recognition that crim­
soned the pallid cheeks and lighted his count­
enance witli a majestic sweetness. It was the 
same smile of welcome that had greeted me, as 
a Freshman, on the steps of that very building; 
the same that made my heart swell as I stepped 
across the boards for my diploma. I clung to 
the feeble hand which shook nervously in mine, 
and reverently I exclaimed, "FATHER CAVA­
XAUGH!" 
In many of tlie University ofticials and mem­bers of the faculty we discerned old friends and companions of undergraduate years, who trod the rugged paths of knowledge in company with us. REV. JOSEPH BOYLE, head of the department of Oratory and debating in the University; FATHER FRANCIS MAHER, at the head of the English course, and DR. JAMES QUINLAN, As­sistant editor of the ANNALS,—all members of the class of 190S— welcomed their old class­mates and helped in a special manner to make the reunion a success. 
A great commotion suddenly arose in the neigli­borhood of Corby Hall, and a huge circus-like vehicle, drawn by four white horses, pulled into view. The blare of brass horns and the beat of boisterous drums were drowned in cheers and hurrahs. PROF. MAURUS—not a day older, ap­parently not a bit milder-looking than when he "flunked" me in second Algebra—hailed me across the quadrangle to explain tlie cause of the dis­turbance. It was the Notre Dame band-wagon, he said, and It had gone down to the station to meet MR. FRANCIS CULL, the Republican nomi­nee for the presidency, and to bring him back in triumph to the grounds. Before Professor Mau­rus had finished his explanation Mr. Cull mounted the Corby steps to address the enthusiastic crowd; but scarcely had he spoken three sentences 
when he found himself outlining the Republican 
platform, and so broke oft with a campaign story. 
I wished to be alone for awhile to renew ac­
ciuaintanceship with such walks and buildings and 
old familiar haunts as remained, and to make 
new friends of the same kind. I strolled down 
toward the post-office and there noticed a tall, 
slim priest witli apostolic bearing, who stood 
gazing placidly at the Sorin monument. His face 
was as l)rown as copper and his form slightly 
stooped. I marvelled at the Xavier-like features 
that were almost hidden by a thick growth of 
auburn whiskers. I did not approach him, but 
was; kept aloof by the "odor Sanctitatis" that 
seemed to envelope him. Later I had reason to 
regret my timidity when I learned that this mys­
terious personage was none other than the renown­
ed Holy Cross missionarj-, FATHER JAMES COR­
BETT, who had just returned from his labors in 
India. 
A span of bob-tailed, high-headed trotters tore 
past me before I could recognize the driver; but 
he was not so slow in recognizing me, for pulling 
up suddenly, he turned and drove back to where 
I was standing. I found myself shaking hands 
witli BOB ANDERSON, an old room-mate of 
mine, and now the international champion tennis 
player. Tlie other gentlemen—the fat man—I 
thought I saw double, for the moment—was in­
troduced to me as JACK SCALES, the track man­
ager of Harvard. Poor old Jack, He'll never do 
the forty yards again with that hundred and fifty 
pounds of extra ballast. 
By far the most interesting event of the Com­mencement Program was the presentation of Shakespeariana Dementia by RAYMOND RATH'S celebrated troupe of papers. GEORGE SPREN­GER, who had made his debut into stageland from the boards of Washington Hall, had the leading role; JAMES FLAHERTY, likewise "of ours," had the right wing of the ballet. Mr. Rath, I sorrowed to see, had acquired a most villainous cast of countenance, from playing the "heavy" in his own productions. 
DR. FRANCIS DERRICK, who holds the chair of Semitic languages at Leipsic,, was the Com­mencement orator. As I sat there in the hall and listened to the words of advice and encourage­ment which Mr. Derrick addressed to the grad­uating class, as I watched the conferring of de­grees and listened to the valedictory, my thoughts fiew back through the receding years to the Com­mencement Exercises of 190S, when, with my classmates, I received my diploma which bound me with loving ties to be ever a faithful alumnus of old N. D. 
The remainder of that morning was pleasantly spent in chatting with old friends, over good old times; and in the afternoon our reunion was brought to a close in the assembly room of Alum­ni Hall. WM. PATRICK LENNARTZ, the bril­liant pulpit orator and pastor of St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, was unanimously chosen for toast-master of the Alumni banquet, and DR. JACOB YOUNG, Laetare Medalist for 1928, was to be the principal speaker. 
Every Alumnus was happy, yet the hearts of many felt a tinge of sorrow, for our old class­
mate, Jurschek, who, at the moment, was await­
ing the verdict of a jury in Logansport. We had 
no doubt that he was guilty; he was, unquestion­
ably, the leader of the anarchistic party; but it 
would grieve us to see him condemned at such 
a time. AVe were on our way to the banquet hall 
when down the street toward us rolled a cloud 
of dust, and out of the cloud rolled "Jury," a 
Texas mustang, and a sombrero. 
"I'm free, fellows! Gad, I'm free!" It was true. Bracken and Curtis had done the job, though it went against their conscience. 
The reunion closed with the banquet. It had been a great success for it brought together, per­haps for the last time, the loyal members of the class of 190S. Old friends bade each other fare­well and departed, and a luminous' page in the history of old 'OS was turned down forever. 
1910 
REV. II. L. MORIARTY took up a lot of space 
in the weekly publication of the Mansfield Rotary 
Club. Father Mike, who is president of the 
•\Vooster Rotarians, "gave a talk which was not only enjoyed by all present but which served to clear up a number of points which had thereto­fore been somewhat hazy in the minds of at least a part of the group of listeners." 
1914 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Ph.B. '14, LL.B. '16, as­sistant to the city law director of Cleveland, and president of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, is the new Grand Knight of Gilmour Council, Knights of Columbus, according to an announcement in the CATHOLIC UNIVERSE BULLETIN of Feb. 3. The new G. K. is a native of Conneaut and has been a member of the Council for eight years. 
1916 
BILL BRADBURY drops a short and enlighten­ing note to say that GEORGE B. WAAGE, former mile runner at N, D., in the "days of ANDY M'DONOUGH, JOHN PLANT and other notables of the time of nineteen hundred and sixteen" is with White Brothers, liardw^ood headquarters for fifty-six years, at 5th and Brannan Sts., San Francisco, from where he writes to Bill everj" 
.once in a while. 
JIM HOGAN, '16, dropped a note recently ask­ing the addresses of EMILIO SALAZAR, who, on the Office flies,, is with the Havana Elec. Ry. L. A P. Co., Carmelo Shops, Vedado, Havana, Cuba, and of J. E. Roach, w^ho we have listed at 4114 
N. Kenneth Ave., Chicago. 1930 
THE ALUMNUS regrets to announce the death of the father-in-law of JOHN T. BALFE, presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New-York. 
1921 
FRANK COUGH LIN has announced his candi­dacy for the Republican nomination for state's attorney for St. Joseph County [Ind.] and his name w^ill appear on the ballot in the May S primary. He served one term as prosecutor hav­ing been elected in 1922. 
1922 
Showing that football and politics are harmoni­ous and that the Rockne system is attacking the polls, comes the announcement of the filing of candidacy of CHET WYNNE for the Nebraska State legislature. The announcement states that "Wynne, football and track coach of Creighton U., once held the high hurdles record, and is in­terested in Omaha amateur theatricals." A pic­ture of Chet above this announcement practically insures the women's vote. 
1923 ONE HUN-DRED BACK IX JUNE 
The response to our form letter was tremendous and as these notes go to the ALUMNUS on the First of March the letters are still pouring in. The enthusiasm and helpfulness shown by the Class indicates that everj-body has been looking forward to next June for Five years. 
We are very anxious to hear from those who have not responded as yet because we want to know that our records are right and that we are in touch with every one in our Class. The plans for Commencement are such that if we attain their fullest development we must be in communi­cation with every man in the Class. 
We hope to hear from everybody very soon so that we may boast of 100 per cent co-operation and get started on the largest Class reunion in 
N. D. history, and as we said before, with the limited student body now at N. D. we have this year the opportunity to set up an all time record that will stand as a testimonial to the loyalty of the Class of 1923. 
LES LOGAN has entered into the Spirit with a bang, and not only assures us of his appearance but also vouches for CLIFF WARD and HARRY' FLANNERY. But LES does not stop there, he tells us that if we don't hear from ED LENNON, FRANK DORIOT, or TED HAYTES to let him know, and he winds up his note like this "... In this letter I make you a little bet of all the beer in the Belgian colony of Mishawaka, that Fort Wayne has the biggest local attendance in the 1923 Class Reunion this year. Pass this word on to the boys for you will need co-operation to make the Chicago crowd out-number us." What do you say Chicago, and Cleveland, and Louisville, and Detroit, and Iowa, and New England etc., etc? 
John Flynn tells us that the ALUMNUS and the Class Letter arrived the same day and con­sequently there was no work done that day. He goes on to say ". . . What pleased me most was the thought of again -walking through Corby or Sorin, hearing the welcoming sounds of four years ago; appealing also is the thought of being hit by one of those hard nose, soft-hearted N. D. buns again. Memories, thou art wonderful. Rest assured John, old man, I will be with the two hundred [you want one hundred, and I believe there will be more than that! We are organ­izing an automobile trip; JOHN GLEASON our estimable cheer leader, will probably go; SI NEF"F, realistic salesman extraordinary, will like­wise go if not otherwise engaged. You know he is the proud daddy of a number of SI'S and his time is not altogether his own. Several others will probably swell the Cleveand colntingent and make ourselves known." 
JOHN NIEMIC, who is located in the Union Trust Bldg. in South Bend, say^ he will be with us and we know that he will see that the other 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 283 
boys in South Bend will all be there. JOHN'S old buddy GEORGE DEVER also promises to be back. GEORGE is busy reading JUGGLER jokes to his little daughter, age about sixteen montiis. 
WALT RAUH hopes, like the rest of us, that at least one hundred will be back and closes with these happy words. ". . . All of the boys here in South Bend are looking forward to seeing their class-mates again, and I wish to say that I will certainly be present next June." 
ED SHEA, who admits he never needs any coaxing to return to school, will be with us. Ed closed with the message that should b& directed to every one in our class. He says ".. . Really, John I was surprised at the fine time I had at last year's Commencement and I am sure if more fellows knew that there is a great difference be­tween Home-coming and Commencement the crowd of '23 boys would be back in gobs." 
LTLE MILLER down in "Old Vincennes" is an­other lawyer who expects to be back. The law­yers are certainly leading the way for the rest of us but we will all catch up soon.. 
HOLLY GRINAGER is another one who puts a real message into his letter. After saying that he will see us all in June he goes on to say "'. . . This reunion i^ something that I feel none of the boys of the Class of '23 can afford to miss. If each one of them will ask himself how many times he has said. 'Boy I'd give anything for a few days with all the old gang again", he will find that he has said it lots of times and prob­ably meant it too. If he meant it then he should realize that the reunion ofter^ the only possible chance of there ever being a realization of his wish." 
REV. JOSEPH FURM.A.X, O.S.B., writes in from New Subiaco Abby, Subiaco, Ark., and regrets that it will be impossible for him to get back. 
TOM GREGORY, a partner now in the Arm of Driscoll & Gregory, St. Jlary, Penn., is another who fears that it is improbable that he return. But Tom says he will keep on trying. 
Hank LAUERMAN wishes that he could be among the first to assure us that he would be back but circumstances make it improbable that he will be with us. Hank says that he will notify us at once if he sees his way clear to come back. 
Stan BRADBURY, who for the last six months 
' has been Assistant to the General Counsel of the Chicago Surface Lines, with offices in the Illinois Merchants Bank Bldg., plans to join the boys at the reunion. 
JAMES ARMSTRONG, the Alumni Secretary, is growing as enthusiastic over the '23 reunion as' we are. Listen to what he said in a letter, ". . . and as I looked over the class list of '23 and saw the many fine fellows named on it I be­gan to think that your suggestion of a hundred can be carried over very nicely. I think you ought to be able to have a real banquet and re­union, and anything else you want done let me know." Jim also sayfe that we can count on Louis Bruggner, Joe Casasanta and Paul Casner whether we hear from • them or not. 
Bob Quinn holds thte long distance record to date. Bob, writing from 523 River Terrace, Ho­boken, N. J., say^ thdt he expects to be back in June, "to taste some of tliose new buns in tlie Dining Hall de Luxe." 
ROGER KILEY took time off from his Job as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Na­tional Catholic Basketball Tournament conducted by Loyola University of Chicago, to say "... You may emphatically count on me to be present. It will certainly be worth very much to me to get back to Notre Dame, to meet all the fellows I have not seen in some four years. 
CHARLES MARTIN, who has been So busy, first with three years at Yale and then with the law business that he has not returned since we all left as a body, will break his fast and return to the reunion. 
PAT WAGEMAN [TEX] comes along to beat out Bob Quinn for the long distance record. Tex writes in from 2S00 Fannin St., Houston, Texas, and reason^ like this "If I can get my vacation by June 1st I will be up and I think it is pos­sible to get oft by that time. 
CULLEN BURKE who may be reached at the State Department of Taxation and Finance, Utlca, 
N. Y., hesitates to promise that he will be back because June is his busiest month, but ". . . if there is any possible chance of doing so I will be present at the time roll is called." 
Turn to the list of Marriages and you will see 
why we have not heard from John Rohrbach or 
Maurice Dacy. John never misses anything at 
Notre Dame and Maurice, as our class president, 
will certainly be back so that makes two more we 
can count on. 
PAT ROGERS expresses the hope that there will be only a few niissing when we gather in June. Pat suggests that some effort be made to procure 'Alphonse' as major-domo for the day. 
JOHN COCHRANE who is the anchor man on the team of Taber, Chittenden, Daniels & Coch­rane, Attorneys at Law, Home Bank Bldg., To­ledo, Ohio, will be back if it is at all possible. 
ED GOULD and JOHN MORTON have told us over the phone that we can count on them, and JOHN vouched for Louis de Smet and John Ste­phen. DICK NASH is talking about Commence­ment all the time and seconds the comment of ED SHEA about the Commencements as they are now. MARTY BRENNAN will be back "if I have to give up my job to do so." 
Harold Haynes orders that we put him on the-list of those expecting to be at Notre Dame in June. Harold says that FRANK TYLER is mar­ried and has a year old daughter and that KEVIN CURRAN is studying to be a doctor. 
Add to these the names of EMERY TOTH. FRANK KENNEDY, FOD COTTON, TOM LEE. and FRED NEU from last months list The last four have not been heard from since last Fall but we expect them back. Henry BARNHART in a note some three or four months ago also promised to be back. 
JOE DONALDSON is another who did not an­swer the letter but from previous conversations we know that he Intends to be back. Joe is now Chicago Sales manager for the Kohler Plumbing Fixture and Supply Co. of Kohler, "Wis. 
ED RAUB who is associated with the Falls 


Hello, Fellows! 
When in need of hotel service, let me serve you at 
Cooper-Carlton Hotel 
Hyde Park Blvd. at 53rd St. Chicago 
400 ROOMS 400 BATHS 
Amercan League Headquarters 
Home of the Crystal Ballroom 
Hollow Staybolt Co. of Cuyahoga Fall, Ohio, tells us to "rest assured I well do everj-tliing within my power to 'make' the party." 
ED KREIMER after wondering whether he should extend congratulations or sj-mpathy to us because of our new job as class secretary, closed his letter in this encouraging manner '"will be only too glad to co-operate in making this reunion a rousing success and will talk it up in this locality." 
The last letter received up to the date this goes in the mail on Feb. 29th is from JERRY RANDALL, and it marks a wonderful finish to a wonderful series of letters. Here it is. "After talking things over with Charlie JIartin down in Detroit the other night a great decision was made. We decided that it is vitally necessary that we should be included in the one hundred "23 men who are to return in June. If they all feel the way we do it will be a quota of two rather than one hundred." 
We now have a real foundation upon wliicli to erect a Commencement structure that will for all time be a monument to our comradeship one for another. It is hoped that all who have not responded will do so at once. AVe had another letter all ready to shoot out but it seemed to us that the cost would be a handicap to the Alumni Office. We intend, eventually, to flne-comb the list of those who do not answer. For the success of the reunion we will resort to telegrams and long distance phone calls if necessary. It goes without saying that we would appreciate it if you would help cut down that expense, which will not be borne by the Alumni Office, so let us hear from you before next week. 
Tell Your Florist 
to send his CHICAGO telegi-aph orders to a NOTRE DAME florist for satisfactory service and prompt city-wide or suburban delivery. 
(j4mld ^lowGi^ Shop 
858 N. Clark St. Chicago 
0 
All Phones—Mohatvk 1500 
Member Florists' Telegraph Delivery Member American Telegraph Florists 
F. H. SWEENEY 
EDWARD W. GOULD. 23 
Manager 
ROBERT D. STEPHAN. 77 
285 
WHY . „ „ . . „, 
oj the men 
who have enrolled for theyiodicmStVisisitss Coiirse////^ Service are 
F
IFTY years ago a man could reasonably hope for success in business if he was willing to work hard for twenty or thirty years to get it. 
Today many men attain prosperity in the same slow way. But today there is a new factor in business progress. The men who are succeeding while they are still young are the men who have sensed its development. 
Business has made enormous strides in the last decade. The mere specialist can no longer hold his own against the executive who is familiar with all departments of business. The successful man must understand the relation of each department of his business to every other department. He must under­stand the relation of his business to every other business. 
The problem of making this knowledge available to business men has been a difficult one. The uni­versities have done what they could. They have established business schools with courses covering everj' field of business. 
But what about the man who is already actively engaged in business—the man who knows there are weak spots in his knowledge, but cannot possibly take the time to attend one of the university schools of business? 
Nineteen years ago thelate Joseph French Johnson, Dean of the School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance of New York University, realized the grav­ity of this problem. He conceived the plan of a faculty including both college teachers and business men, and a Course so arranged that any man might follow it effectively in his own home. 
Thus began the Alexander Hamilton Institute. In nineteen years more than 300,000 business men have enrolled. Over 40% of them are college men, and 38,000 are presidents of successful businesses. Why are 40% college men? The answer is simple. College men know the value of systematic training. Naturally they have been quick to appreciate the value of this authentic Course which gives them in two years the broad business knowledge most men take a lifetime to acquire. 
If you are a college man, we will gladly send you a copy of "Forging Ahead in Business." This inter­esting little book gives all the facts about the Modem Business Course and Service. Thousands of college men have profited from the story it tells. Use the coupon below. 
ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE 
i|^2o the ALEXANDER HAMILTON INSTITUTE, 526 Astor Place, New York City Send me the new revised edition of " Forging Ahead in Business," which I may keep without charge. Signaturt.. . Business Positioa„ Business Address.. IN CANADA, address the Alexander Hamilton Institute, Limited, C. P. R. Bldg., Toronto IN ENGLAND, 67 Great Russell St., London. IN AUSTRALIA, lie Castlereagh St., Sydney 
•286 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1926 
X)ar Jim: Just the other day our worthy [?] class secre­tary, Gerry Hayes, reminded me that I had prom­ised him to report on the activities of the boys •of the class of 1926 who are in and around Chi­cago. In view of the fact litat the March issue of the ALUMNUS is to be a "Chicago Club" number Hayes brings forth several more arguments to cause me to bother you with this letter. 
Well, anyhow, last week the Chicago Club had a dinner and election of officers at the Hamilton Club. Xo doubt you already have been notified of the results. Several of the boys of 192G were on hand at the festivities. Tour humble correspond­
•ent attended in the company of GERRT M'DER­3IOTT, GEORGE HARTNETT, JOHN' SWEENEY, and JOHN ROTH. Hayes has recently reported on the activities of McDermott and Hartnett, but lailed to tell you that "Honest John" Sweeney is Frequent showings of Luxenberg Clothes are proving hims'elf a great help to our "honorary held in the cities listed below: 
•classmate" Sam Insull at the Commonwealth-Edi­
Jacksonville Boston Pittsburgh son Company. "Juno" Roth has recently been ap­Tampa Syracuse Washington pointed a district sales manager for the Electro-
New Orleans Chicago Wilkes-Barre Atlanta Bethlehem Troy 
lux A'acuum Cleaner Company. He is certainly Birmingham South Bend 
doing his part to "help keep the city clean." $37.50 MARK MOONET and JIM SHEERIX showed up Write for new style booklet and dates of exhibitions. 
at the dinner and report that "business is good" in their respective lines. Among the lawyers to put in an appearance were TT BULGER, JOHX DEVEREAUX, PRANK TVALSH, and ED 
CLUTHES 
O'TOOLE. All of them look well and prosperous. 
37 UNION SQUARE. NEW YORK 
GERRT HATES, himself, despite his words to Between 16th and ITth Sts. 

THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND. OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 

Stadiums . Grandstands Athletic Fields 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-one Stadiums and Athletic Fields Thirteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Ground Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
the contrary has been covering himself with glory at the Northwestern Medical School. JIIUIY STACK helps him operate on the puppies and says he is rapidly becoming an. expert dog sur­geon. T05I LEAHT reports from Loyola Medical School that they are cutting up almost as many dogs over on the West side as Gerry and Jim an­nihilate over on the Lake Front. 
BILL DOOLEY, erstwhile editor of the SCHO­LASTIC visited us recently. Bill is still "editing" for the Northern Indiana Public Utilities Com­pany. His headquarters are in Hammond. Bill reports having heard from FRANK KLEIN, who is busy dispensing news in the southern part of our famous state via the "Peoria Transcript." 
WADE SULLIVAN is one of the more recent arrivals in town and is connected with the Build­er's Bank at Wacker Drive and LaSalle Street. BOB CARET continues to dispense legal advice to his clients. Married life seems to please ART BIDWELL, as he sticks fairly close to the home and fireside and no longer frequents any of his did haunts. 
BOB [R. Q.] MURPHY is well acquainted with the ins and outs of the Chicago Public Liljrary. He is writing "copy" for the Roche Advertising Agency and seems to have found loads of mater­ial for "surveys" among the book shelves in our municipal fount of knowledge. Another of the "Bobs" recently favored us with a visit. BOB COONEY dropped in a few weeks ago and reports that the Notre Dame boys in Toledo are all well and enjoying life as usual. When we saw him he was looking for his old pal FRANZ CODY, who is helping the Federal Electric Company light up Michigan Boulevard. 
That is just about all the information I have 
GEORGE M. MAYPOLE 
160 NORTH LASALLE CHICAGO. ILL. 
INSURANCE 
Howls Your 
CREDIT? 
Y
ESTERDAY— life insurance agents were considered a bore, a time consuming nuisance. That prejudice has disap' peared now. 
Today, if you ask a banker about your credit, he asks you about your life insurance. 
But, though you may have enough insurance to satisfy your banker, you may not have exactly the right arrangement of policies to secure you and your dependents the max­imum of future security. 
A John Hancock agent is a specialist in security for the future, thefounda­tion of mental serenity. 
Ask him to come in.. 
liFE INSURANCE COMPANY^ 
«r SOSTON. HAtSACMUStTTS 
A SniONC COMPAKV, Over Sixty Vean 
b Businea. Liberal as to Contract. 
Safe and Secure in Every Way. 
if 
on hand at present. Get after Hayes and see what you can do to keep him from "passing the buck" in tlie issues to come. Use wliat you can of this suft, Jim. I realize that a lot of it is pretty bad; but then, blame it on the terrible weather in Chicago, a heavy rush of work, or what have you. Best regards, 
—JIM RON-AX. 1927 AKDY SLEIGH sent a note by pony express from Weston, W. Va., with a few of character­istic Sieigh comments. Andy says that he and the EDWARDS boys, GEXE and TOM, are O. K. Rock was down that way not long ago and pepped them up. He also said the referee of the Pitt game was taking a lot of punishment for calling the N. D. men so closely. STEVE ROXAT, varsity pitcher last year, was hurt In an auto accident Jlonday morning while on his way to work at the Twin Branch Power plant, east of Mishawaka. The accident happened in South Bend when a car disregarded the stop sign and crashed into the one Steve was driving. He was taken to St. Joe's Hospital. A short note from CH.\RLIE JUDGE locates him as busy in Brooklyn with the A. C. Joyce Mfg. Co., 1S60 E. 2Sth St. Charlie asks to be re­membered to the boys. JIM O'CONNOR is with the Grasselli Chemical Co., at their Grasselli, X. J., works. LEON BREZINSKI and BILL DEGNAN are still residing at 400 Marlborough St., Boston. JOHN RICHARD SCANLON, LL.B., '27, of Ra­ton, New Mexico, recently passed the New Mexico bar examination. MARC A. FIEHRER, LL.B. '27, who is practic­
ing law at Hamilton, Ohio, called on his old friends at the law school on his way from Flint. Michigan, where, together with James M. Pear-Son, LL.B. '26, he is retained to defend a young man charged with a serious offense. 
1928 
Mr. and Mrs. M. Miller, 419 Summers street, have announced the engagement of their daughter Miss Irene Miller to JOHN L. DUNN, son of Mrs. 
J. A. Dunn, Gushing, Okla. Mr. Dunn was a for­mer student at the University of Notre Dame. No date has been set for the wedding. 
Tlie marriage of Miss Eleanor Vurton. of Calu­met, Mich., and FRANCIS O'TOOLE, of San Diego. Calif., son of Mrs. J. M. O'Toole, of San Diego, took place at 10 o'clock Saturday. Feb. 11, at the chapel at St. Mary's college. The ceremony was performed by the Rev. Timothy Murphy, chaplain of St. Mary's college, and the attendants were Miss Dorothy Vurton of Calumet, and David Leh­man. Following the ceremony a wedding break­fast was served to 14 guests at the Hotel LaSalle. Mr. and Mrs. O'Toole are spending a few days in Chicago and will make their home in South Bend until June at which time Mr. O'Toole will grad­uate from the University of Notre Dame. 
SHIP C.4RVING ART NUMERALS In Yoar Stadinm Seats By the HOTGRAVE PROCESS Write for Particulars, CUR-nS & GEER 500 Adeline, Oakland, California Used by Sesaui-Centennial: Calif. Memorial; Rose Bowl; L. A. Coliseum, and others. 
Local Alumni Clubs 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON, OHIO 
Frank Steel, '25, 543 Stratford Ave.. President. 
John DettUng, '21, 437 E. Buchtel Ave., Secretary. 
THE NOTRE SAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS 
Board of Governors: William Baldwin, '13, Little 
Rock; A. BrizEOlara, '13, Little Rock; Two­
mey Clifford, '14, Camden; A. B. Hendricks, 
'18, Forth Smith: A. J. Porta, '25, Fort 
Smith; Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, '14, Mor­
ris Preparatory School, Little Rock. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO 
Jay L. Lee, '12, 1509 Liberty Bank Building, 
President. 
Fred JI. Pralatowski. Dupont-Rayon Co., 
Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUJIET REGION 
Clarence W. Bader, '17, 650 Pierce St., Gary, 
Ind., President. 
F. J. Galvin, '23, First Trust Bldg., Hammond, 
Ind., Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
Joseph J. Sullivan, '02, President. Thomas C. Donovan, '24, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI 
E. C. McHugh, '09, P. O. Box 429, President. 
L. V. DuBois, o. s. '15, Fredk. Schmitt Co., Fifth and Main Sts., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND 
Joseph Smith, '14, 355 Dalwood Drive, President. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLjB OF CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hoster Realty 
Bldg., Columbus, President. 
F. X. Finnerman, 615- West Chapel St., 
Columbus, Secretary. 
NOTRE DASOB CLUB OF THE CONNECTICUT 
VALLEY 
William J. Granfleld, '13, 31 Elm St., Springfield, 
Mass., President. James A. Curry, '14, 795 -\sylum Ave., Hartford, 
Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER 
J. P. Logan, 3654 Marlon St., President 
Henry Schwalbe, Argonaut Hotel, Sec-Treas. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT 
Edward J. Weeks, El. '25, 465 Merrick Ave., 
President. George T. Koch, '25, 120 Seward Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DA9IE CLUB OF DES MOINES 
John F. Hynes, '14, 709 Crocker Bldg., President. Harold P. Klein, '26,1704 Forest Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.4ME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF 
COLUMBIA 
Frederick Wm. Wile, '91, G19 Bond Bldg., 
President. Robert Biordan, '24, Care the Bengalese Brook-land, D. C, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WATNE 
Wm. P. Breen, '77, 913 Calhoun St, President Clifford Ward, '22, 220 E. William St, Secretary. 







