The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
SEPTEMBER 
1939 
^^ 


NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
Volume 37 Number 3 September 1959 
Editor James E. Armstrong, '25 Managing Editor John F. Laughlin, '48 
Cover: The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass remains the central and unifying event of Commencement (top). Reunions (bottom) and every significant day in the life of Notre Dome. 
Editorial: The Sublime Tradition—announcing an important new service for Notre Dome men, to be introduced in the next full issue. Page 3 
Picture Story: Reunion Recap—a chronicle of the massive—and fre­quently madcap—1959 Reunions. Pages 4-11 
Short Article: The Need for on Adult Theological Education by Rev. Louis J. Putz, C.S.C.—home truths about continuing spirituality, with a "home front" bibliography. Page 12 
Photo Features: Spotlight Clubs—Chicago (retiring governors), Indian­apolis (Bill Fox, '20), and Detroit (Van Wallace, '27). Pages 12, 14 
Personality Feature: Adventures in Grand Opera—Frank Donovan, '26, and Alfred C. Sfepon, Jr., '31, presidents of the two largest inland opera corporations in Detroit and Chicago. Pages 13-14 
New Deportment: Your Alumni Board—^vital topics of the June meeting. Page 15 
News Briefs: The University Today—Notre Dome developments, 
on and off the campus. Pages 16-17 
News of the Notre Dame Law School Pages 18, 29 
Address: Of Importance to the Family, condensed from remarks at the Alumni Banquet by Bill Cotter, '41. Pages 19, 29 
Athletics: 1959 Football Forecast and Roster; All-Americons, 1903-1959; 1958-59 Season Statistics. Pages 23-27. 
Notre Dame Clubs and Classes—Club Directory, Club Reports and Photos, The Prompter's Box, Vital Statistics, Class News and Spotlight Alumni. Pages 30-67 
President's Letter, by V/illiam E. Cotter, Jr., '41. Page 68 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
FRAXXIS L.LA^•DE.^•, '36. Honorary President WiLLiA-M E. COTTER, JR., '41 President JULES K. DE L,\ VERG.VE,'33 
Club Vice-President RAY.MO.VD W. DURST,'26 Class Vice-President LEO J. VoGEL, '17. Fund Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary 
Directors to 1960 *J* 
LEO J. VocEL, '17 286 Magnolia Place, Pittsburfih 28, Pa. RAY-MOXD W. DURST, '26 840 Lathrop Ave, River Forest. III. JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, '33 413 Perc Marquette Bldg. New Orleans, Louisiana WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minnesota 
Directors to 1961 '^ 
JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. Box 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri 
C-HARLES E. ROHR, '30* Rohr's, ni l Chester, Cleveland, Ohio 
JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, New York, New York 
JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38 1000 Fidelity Trust Bldg. Indianapolis, Indiana 
Directors to 1963 

JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 BjTne Plywood Company Royal Oak, Michigan PAUL J. CUSHI.VC, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd. 14th & Broadway, Oakland. Calif. WALTER FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 


W.
 EDMUND SHEA, '23 , ^ Third National Building ' * Dayton 2, Ohio 


Chairmen of the 1959 Committees 
W. E. COTTER Executive 
J. K. DE Lv\ VERGNE; Club Actimties 
R. W. DURST. Class Activities 
L. J. VOGEI 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 

R. W. DURST Preparatory Schools 
L. J. VoGEI Placement and Job Counseliru 
C. E. ROHR* Inter-Alumni AffaiW 
J. R. STEWART../'r«(ige and Public Relations 
J. H. SHEILS Religion and Citizenship 
J. R. STEWERT AND 
J. H. SHEILS Nominations 

J. C. O'CONNOR Budget and Finance 
L. J. VOGEI Resolutions 
•Deceased 
This magaz ne is publish ed bi-monthly bv 
the University of Xolre Dame. Notre Dame Ind. Entered as second class mat-X tcr Oct. I, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre ^f Dame Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 1 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 

We have nurtured our fraternal tra­ditions. (The Reunions just past attest 


tdUofUd eomment '""" ^"' 
Alumni Secretary 

|o this.) 
We cherish our athletic traditions. (The winter just past was eloquent testimony.) 
Our spiritual traditions are strong. (The de­dication of the new Moreau Se­minary brought a wonderful tes­timonial to the 

T u A ^ piety of our James E. Armstrons ' ' alumni from the Apostolic Delegate.) 
Ne.\t issue, the ALUMNUS VAW intro­duce a new department in an effort to promote regularly and. consistently the intellectual tradition of Notre Dame. 
• Msgr. John Tracy Eljis obser\'es: ".. . to whom, one may ask, may the leaders of the coming generation turn with, more rightful expectancy in their search for enlightenment and guidance in the realm of religion and morality than to American Catholic intellectu­als? For it is they who are in posses­sion of the oldest, wisest, and most sub­lime tradition of learning that the 
^vorld has ever known ... " Our project, simply and hopefully, it to foster this "sublime tradition." 
With the background of literally years serious discussion by your national Board of Directors and the University administration, and through the cur­rent cooperation of a faculty committee headed by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., academic assbtant to Father 
^Hesburgh, the ALUMNUS has scheduled a series of four 4-page inserts in the ne.xt four issues of the ALUMNUS magazine. These inserts will deal with single fields of liberal education, sometimes presented by one facult)' author, some­times by several. The treatment may be unified or segmented within the Abroad subject. Each topic will be supplemented by a suggestion of one or several authori­tative and interesting books or other available treatments which will permit alumni with more intense interest to pursue the topic in detail. The first planned fall insert is a universally significant topic "What America Stands For." 
gK The presentation is a current, vital summary by Dr. Stephen Kertesz, chairman of the Committee on Inter-
Announcing a new feature: 



THE IBLIME TRIDITIOK 
national Relations and professor of po­litical science, on t\vo symposia con­ducted by Notre Came on this broad topic, "What America Stands For." Dr. Kertesz will treat the present status of the United States in its relation to world problems, and review the many facets of our rich heritage treated in the symposia by a group of outstanding leaders, including a number of Notre Dame alumni and faculty members. 
In the current era of world crisis, no opening topic seemed so universally adapted. 
The second proposed winter insert, directed by Dr. John T. Frederick, head of the Department of Englbh, wU feature several short analyses of cur­rent fields of literature by members of the Department, with suggested reading under the separate headings. This should be a great contribution to the reading search of the educated man, for method as well as content. 
The Department of Histor)', under Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, and the Department of Sociology, under Dr. John Kane, will, as presently pro­grammed, provide the significant con­tents of the third and fourth inserts. 
This announcement is ob\'iously un­derstatement. But the area of thought is not new to you. 
For me, it represents my own "30 Years War." I was sold on what was then called "adult education" in 1927. In subsequent issues of the ALUMNUS you will find a "Book Page" authored by the late Father John W. Cavanaugh, 
C.S.C. You will find Reading Lists, in the magazine and separately sent, prepared by Colleges or by Depart­ments. You will find articles by faculty members on broader fields of interest. Frankly, we never felt we had hit a general pattern of success. But there is" evidence of revived interest, not only among Notre Dame men, but every­where. And we believe this simple pat­tern may prove a most effective spear­head to as broad a program of con­tinuing education as your increasing activity of mind can create. 
Our project is based on. some as­sumptions. 
1.
 Your business and professional reading is adequately covered in your business and professional journals. 

2.
 Your basic general reading is adequately covered in the magazines and newspapers which inform you. 

3.
 In every alumnus there is a cul­tural urge, created by the concept of liberal education, and contact \vith it, not satisfied by any undergraduate curriculum. 

4.
 This urge is too often diverted after college by the competition of re­quired reading for business or profes­sional progress, or by the sugar-coating of the picture or digest media that permit a superficial short-cut to our world scene. 

5.
 If voices of familiar faculty members, from the campus on which the intellectual world unfolded its vastness to us, can bring us an oc­casional reminder that education is a continuing, never-ending process, wt h a simple new picture of some attrac­tive new horizon, and a quick colorful chart on how to get there, the urge ^vill not so often be diverted. 

6.
 You are as anxious as the Uni­versity, or the faculty, or your Associ­ation officers, to foster this Sublime Tradition. 


So look for your ne.xt ALUMNUS. The insert will be on a different color stock, readily identifiable. 
Read it. That is the first appeal to you, and the primary purpose of the insert. Then, if you will, let us have your reaction — the Alumni Ofiice, or the Editor, or the faculty %vriter or writers who have intrigued you. 
We believe this is the opening of a bigger, brighter era of richer alumni life. Many of you are already en­joying it. We hope this multipUes the number. It is intended as a service from the University to you, in return for another rich tradition — your gen­erous support of the University. We believe it can repay you as many times over as you will let it. —J-E.A. 
tiolTt Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 i­
R E U N R 1 E 0 C N A 
P 
Notre Dame Class of 1929 30th Reunion snapshots in montage by Frank D. Meyer 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Divots flew as duffers vied for prizes at Monogram and Alumni golf tournaments. 

Golf... 

30th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS OF 1919 —A s if to symbolize ^their elusive classmates, reunionists Rademaker, Fenlon and Carroll dodged photographers, may have darted behind these trees to talk. 
T
HURSDAY, June 11, 1959, found 
early arrivals all but breaking 

dowTi the doors of Morrissey and Ly­
ons Halls, shattering the silence for 
rectors and prefects winding up a 
week-long retreat. 
Officially the 1959 Class Reunions 

were not to begin until the following 
evening. 
Part of the unexpected influx may have resulted from confusion about the Monogram Golf Day and annual meet­ing, traditionally scheduled by the Monogram Club on the eve of the Big \Veekend. The athletes quartered in Alumni Hall and spent the day chip­ping down the fairways, protected from the critical gaze of non-Iettermen. In the evening, after cocktails and dinner at the Morris Inn, Monogrammers elected Oregonian Bill Schmitt, '10, to succeed Detroit's "Pep" PanelH, "49, as president. 
Meanwhile, early reunionists had leisure for private rubbernecking at the magnificent Moreau Seminary- and other recent campus construction, visits to favorite chapels and shrines. . . and, after dusk, quiet chats over glowing cigarettes in the darkened quads. 

Gabfests... 
35th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS OF 1924 — Boasting one of the smallest, noisiest and liveliest delegations were the boisterous beatniks of '24. 

Gaiety... 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
10th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS OF 1949 — Beyond the size of their contingent, '49ers were prom-TX inent in golf, food consumption and liquid capacity departments. 




REUNION RECAP 
F
RIDAY, June 12, dawned on a jam of cars and taxis at the Cir­cle. . . a steady stream of sportshirted registrants into the reunion center at the Law Buildinij .^nd on to registration desks in half a dozen halls on tlie old^ "Gold Coast," the West Quadrangle-* dominated by the Rockne Memorial... a. mass invasion of the Burke Memorial Golf Course by duffers and pros alike, to compete for high, low and middle prizes in the most indiscriminate golf tournament known to man. . . a cam­pus swarming with caps of every ima­ginable hue (but pink). . . and — most marvelous of marvels — the draining of 1 ten thousand cans of cliilled and fro-fl thy beverage with hardly a stagger to be' seen. 
20th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS OF 1939—Substituting enthusiasm for numbers, '39 was notable in its taste for vermouth. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 

• Jubilists... 
This was the scene until the sha­dows lengthened and enveloped the grass. Then the rainbow of caps broke up into solid colors, in the court)'ards, the dining halls.and the Morris Inn, for the Class Dinners, business meet­
ings , elections and various entertain­ments. The dinners differed in form— from hearty outdoor buffets of pizza or grilled seafood for the younger alumni to linen-and-silver sit-down feasts for older grads — and programs ran from raillery to music to sports movies to plain nostalgia, but all dissolved into chatter over cheese-on-rj'e in the late 
— and early — hours. 
... and Jubilation 
Mm 
•^^.i^Ai 

(Left) GOLDEN JUBILEE CLASS OF 1909 These stalwart survivors seemed ready for 50 years more. 
(Below) Celebrating 150 years of priestly service to Notre Dame, 
(I. to r.) Fathers Thomas Irving, Eugene Burke and Cornelius Hagerty were special reunion guests. 
c-v 

SILVER JUBILEE CLASS OF 1934 — Regaled with music, movies and martinis, the 25-Year Class assembled (minus the brass band) after luncheon with Father Hesburgh. 
Notre Dame Alumr.us, September, 1959 
5th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS OF 1954—Remarkable for quantity alone, "54 
also boasted a domestic prelate just appointed by Pope John XXIII. Rt. Rev. Msgr. 
Osmundo Calip (front row center, to right of Rev. Thomas Cody, C.S.C), a papal^ 

chamberlain since 1953, directs press, schools and Catholic Action in the Philippines 
Saturday morning, June 13, saw an picnics of fried chicken, and majorities always amazing phenomenon. Hun­were mustered for pictures at the Li­dreds of clear-eyed citizens, showing brary before scattering for more golf 

The Young.. 
few effects of the conversation mara-or a quick nap. The 25-Year Class, Uions and horseplay of the night be­probably the most athletic of all, hiked fore, turned out in the hall chapels for back to the remote scene of the previ­Mass and Communion in memor)' of ous night's merriment for their Presi-^ 
Z)

their departed classmates. Then some dent's Luncheon at the North Dining dawdled over coffee in the Caf, while 
Hall. others toured the changing campus or In the afternoon alumni were in-
returned to the fray on the fairways. \'ited to their respective schools for the By noon most of the wanderers re­College Hours, open houses and meet­turned to tlie hall areas for box-lunch ings with deans and faculty representa­
.. . and Young at Heart 
^1^ 0 


I J* 
•m

45th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS OF 1914—^An already vigorous per­
centage of the Class is swelled by two honorary members. Father Hesburgh, '38 (center), and (kneeling) Al Gushurst, '09. 
S Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Champ meets challenger as '29er Jim Kennedy (on left), with 12 children back in Chicago, con­soles '29 runner-up Dr. George J. McDonnell, Freehold, N. J., who 
had only 11 Vi at the time. 

Champs •
 • 
lives on current and future academic developments. The Law Association meeting was traditional, but explora­tory' meetings in the other Colleges were reported to be very constructive. After golf, luncheons, tours, meetings 

^n d cocktails there was just enough time to tidy up for the event of the evening, an e.\odus to the North Din­ing Hall for the annual Alumni Ban­quet. 
.. . and Their Children 
R  
E  
U  
N  R  
1  E  
0  C  
N  A  
P  

Waiting for Dad—or per­haps for Terence Gerard, who ar­rived June 19—are Dr. and Mrs. McDonnell's 11 stay-at-homes: (clockwise from top) Kathleen, 17, holding Justine, 1; Maureen, 14, holding Patrick, 2; Francine, 13; Jeannine, 10; Bernadine, 4; Ger­aldine, 7; George, Jr., 5; Chris­tine, 8, and Arleen, 11. 
30th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS OF 1929—See page 4 for examples of the relaxed sociability that characterized '29 in program and in person. 
Nolr'e Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Stars of the Alumni Banquet program included (I. to r.) Fathers Cornelius Hagerty and Eugene Burke; Bill Cotter, Alumni Assn. president; Father Hesburgh, N.D. president; Jim Armstrong, Alumni Assn. secretary; Father Thomas Irving; Ed Krause, N.D. athletic director, and Father George Holderith, N.D. golf coach. 
As usual, tlie Alumni Banquet was a crowded affair, both physically and program-wise. 

A traditional feature was tlie ap­pearance of Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., University golf coach, to award prizes to the winners in the unortliodox categories of a gruelling golf tourna­ment There was a fairly even distri­bution in all but the five- and ten-year classes, battling, again as usual, for the lion's share. 
Special guests abounded, but toast­master Jim Armstrong, '25, singled out only the most special. Fathers Eugene Burke. Cornelius Hagertv and Thomas Ir\'ing were the hit of the evening, the eve of their Golden Jubilee as priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Ed Krause, '34, recounted the impressive 1958-59 record of athletic teams under the coaches present at the banquet (see Athletics, page 27), but a coach with his record still before him was the only one required to speak. Head football coach Joe Kuharich, '38, introduced his staff, of whom only two members, freshman mentor Hugh Devore, '34, and executive assistant Dave Slatter)', '48, are alumni. Newcomers Bill Dad­dio, Dick Evans, Dick Stanfel and Joe Scudero seemed happy to be aboard. 
^ 

Alumni President Bill Cotter, '41, re­ported on developments of \atal interest to alumni (see page 19). 
Speaker of the evening was Notre Dame's president. Father Hesburgh, whose "State of the University" ad­dress was both harrowing and inspiring;^ Describing his thoughts as he watched"-' a huge rocket rise into space at Cape Canaveral, Father Hesburgh examined the terrible responsibility of Christian education, and particularly of Notre Dame in her possibly destined role as Queen of Catholic Universities, in the light of man's tremendous power for progress or destruction in the Age of 
^ 

R  
E  R  
U  E  • ^  
N  C  
1  A  
0  P  

Early grads had seats of honor in the spacious North Dining Hall, 
N

jammed fcr the second straight year with a thousand Notre Dame men. 
10 Notre Bame Alumnus, September, 1939 
Space. The grads returned, haunted by the thought, to their halls, for snacks and bull sessions far into the night. 
On Sunday morning, June 14, alumni trooped out of their residence halls and northward to the Grotto of Our 

^,ady of Lourdes for the crowning event of the Reunions, the Alumni Mass offered for the intentions of Notre Dame men throughout the world. The significance of the Mass in this setting was beautifully ex­pressed in the sermon of Right Rev. Monsignor Edward J. Seward, '34, chancellor of the Diocese of Cleveland 
Scene of many a private request for favors (left), the hallowed Grotto was also the site of the annual Alumni Mass (see cover), celebrated by Rt. Rev. Msgr. Ed­ward J. Seward, '34 (right), who also preached the sermon. 
and a former flying chaplain in World War II. Msgr. Seward called on N.D. men to rededicate their lives to the 


Faith... 

Patroness of their student years, the Lady who has appeared on earth so often in the past 100 years to warn the modem world of the possible conse­quences of its folly and to urge our prayer for the conversion of Russia. 
Armed'with a plenary indulgence re­
...and 

cendy renewed at the Grotto by the Holy See, reunionists strolled back across campus for a last leisurely look 

Farewells 

before returning to their families and everyday occupations. 
15th ANNIVERSARY REUNION CLASS of 1944—Subject of a soon-to-be-published survey, '44 got re­union reminders from a world traveler named Herman. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 11 
CHICAGO—^At the annual dinner for retiring ofEceis and governors are (clockwise from lower left) Bob Geiman, '56; Ed Gausselin, '33; Jerry Frazcl, '50; Frank Rothing, '48; Frank Milligan, '45; Frank O'Laughlin, '38; Frank Alumane, '49; Joe Archibald, '50; Jim Doyle, '31; Ed Fox, '37; Gil Seaman, '31; Ken Enright, '48; 2nd V-Pres. Joe Pagliari, '53; Pres. Phil Facccnda, '51; 1st V. Pres. Geo. Menard, '35; Secy. Art Conrad, '35; Dan Hardin, '53; Ray Durst, '26; Prial Curran, '37; Jack Morlcy, '35; Bill Carney, '28; Tom McCabe, '22; Bill Allen, '22; Hon. Norman Barry, '21; Pat Shannon, '48; Jack Muldoon, '51, and 
Hugh Mulligan, '50. 

The Need for an Adult Theological Education 
William Francis Fox, Jr., '20, (left) dean of Indiana sports writers, awarded an honorary monogram July 23 at the Indi­anapolis Club golf outing, is helped into his jacket by N.D. sports publicity director Charlie Callahan, '38, himself an honorary Monogrammer. Eighth man to be elected to Monogram Club membership, Bill was fur­ther honored a week later when he was chosen to receive the Grantland Rice Memorial Award for 1959, presented by the Sportsmanship Brotherhood for "outstand­ing sports writing in the Rice tradition." 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
by 
REV. LOUIS J. PUTZ, C.S.C. 

The Popes of recent decades have put a great stress on an active re­sponsible lait}' in the Church. Now this call would be principally ad­dressed to College graduates. The question that immediately presents it­self is whether the religious equipment received in College is enough to carr\' one dirough to solve tlie many prob­lems that must invariably face a man going from school to life. Every pro­fession has its own particular moral and spiritual challenges that need more specific answers than either tlie catechism of the elementary school or the religion texts of high school or col­lege could solve, not to mention tliat for tlie most part these problems were hot even known to the teacher. 
Therefore, a big gap needs to be filled botli from the point of view of the professional field by way of bridg­ing religion and life in the layman's world, but also one of possessing a ma­ture hold on religious truths adequate for the more mature mind. Religious knowledge should grow with one'^, greater responsibilities as life unfolds. Familiarity with religious literature both in book and magazine form would have to be the simplest form of catch­ing up with all the new developments in tlie life of tlie Church. 
One graduate told me recently that he formed a group of interested people who read a book a month (a religion;;^ book in this instance) and every montli they meet to discuss the book. One man is assigned to learn as much about the author as possible, another leads the discussion of the book, others try to get a background on related issues. This group has been going for several years with great profit to all of diem and more tlian a hundred books havo^ been thus read and digested. He main-" tains tliat without tliis challenge and regularit)' he would not have been kept spiritually alive. 
HOME FRONT BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Magazine Reading: 

AVE MARIA (up-to-date on social and re­ligious events and thinking , . . popular) 
REVIEW OF POLITICS (Scholarly re­view of major trends of a political nature) 
APOSTOLIC PERSPECTIVES (research in new developments on the Church Front) ;^ 
published at Notre Dame 
Books of Recent Vintage: 

iFAITH EXPLAINED by Fr. Leo J. Trese ($5.95). Always popular and meaty presentation of doctrine. 
MORE THAN MANY SPARROWS by Fr. Leo J. Trese ($2.95). A popula^ treatise of Divine Providence. 
GOD SPEAKS and GOD AMONG MEN adapted by Fr. Murchland ($3.95). Catholic doctrine presented through the te-xt of the Bible. Mature approach to Religion. 
ON THE WAY TO GOD by Sr. Jane Marie Murray, O.P., and Vincent Giesc. A handy Religion manual. 
FIDES Publications. Obtainable at all bookstores. Also Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Adventures in 



GRAND OPERA 
Detroiter Donovan, Chicagoan Stepan 
Mix Business, Pleasure as Presidents 
Of Booming Civic Opera Corporations 
FRANK DONOVAN Pagliacc! meets Savoldi 
 Notre Dame men, each an Tw o 

"impresario" in the original sense (entrepreneur or enterpriser), have gone a long way toward exploding the myth that the interests of Irish grads are narrowly athletic. A Detroit law­yer and a Chicago chemical executive, they arc typical of hundreds of N.D. ^alumni who have assumed cultural or *artistic leadership in their communities. In die case of Frank AV. Donovan, '26, and Alfred C. Stepan, Jr., '31, this leadership is manifested primarily in music and specifically in the esoteric world of grand opera. As presidents of the leading opera associations in Amer­ica's two largest inland cities, Messrs. Donovan and Stepan are shining proof ^(to jumble a metaphor) that Notre 
•Dame men don't live on bread and cir­cuses alone. Or, in the words of Jim Armstrong, that "Pagliacci" is as much a Notre Dame bj^vord as "Savoldi." 
Stepan, president of Chicago's Ste­pan Chemical Company, was elected unanimously to the post of president of the Lyric Opera of Chicago, the cit)''s only major opera company, at a meet­
#n g of the corporation's board of direc­tors last spring. 
Attorney Donovan distinguished him­self this year as president of the Detroit Grand Opera Association in its first year as host to the Metropolitan Opera in Detroit — the Met's first local ap­pearance in 49 years. 
Frank Donovan's achievements were threefold. He organized a huge guar­
antor program of more than twice the required amount. He engineered a spe­cial benefit performance program for the Detroit Museum of Art Founders Society and enlisted the active services of Mrs. Henr)' Ford II as general chair­man of the entire program. He strength­ened the membership of the Opera Board, enlisted municipal cooperation, and widened community support for opera to a degree where the entire sea­son was 25% oversold. The 39-mem­ber board of directors includes Mrs. Edsel Ford, Roger Kyes and George Romney. 
In \'iew of the great success of the opera season, not only from an attend­ance standpoint, but in its favorable nation-wide publicity and its benefit performance contribution of almost $40,000 to the City's Art Purchase Fund, Frank was unanimously re-elect­ed president of the Detroit Grand Opera Association at the annual meet­ing on June 23. Reuben Ryding is vice-president and manager. 
Frank's extensive contacts in the business and professional world were important factors in the success of the Met's first season in Detroit since 1910, but the greatest item in his achieve­ment was the unflagging effort he de-' voted personally toward organizing De­troit's plans for properly launching a Metropolitan Opera season in Detroit. 
As a result of these efforts Detroit is to have a longer season in 1960 and plans are already under way to make next year's Metropolitan Opera Fes­tival an even greater success. 
Contributing reason for Frank's suc­cess was the formation of a strong pro­motional organization, ably directed by Mrs. Henry Ford II, whose interest and e-xtremely generous devodon of time to meetings, special projects and publicity were of vital importance. In fact, Mrs. Ford's active participation was Donovan's tenstrike — a widely re­cognized asset, which Donovan has re­enlisted and confirmed for the 1960 season. 
His appointment of Mayor Louis C. Miriani as Honorary Chairman, the by­product of which was the establish­ment of a. separate Mayor's Commit­tee, produced excellent results in a field hitherto untouched in previous 
ALFRED C STEPAN, JR. Cinderella hits Chicago 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 13 
Opera Festivals with other opera com­panies. Mayor Miriani has also been re-elected to another term as Honorar)­Opera Chairman for 1960. 
Frank is presently setting up financ­ing plans for 1960 and has been in­structed by the Opera Association's Board to negotiate ne.Kt year's contract with the Metropolitan Opera. 
Also Art and S)'niphony 
A member of the N. D. Club of De­troit, Frank is also a director of tlie Detroit SjTuphony Orchestra, treasurer and trustee of tlie Archives of Ameri­can Art and trustee of the Etruscan Foundation. But, lest anyone think that he is a one-sided culture \ailture, he was a tennis enthusiast at Notre Dame and remains a staunch admirer of the late Knute Rockne. 
AI Stepan has been on the board of directors of the LyTic Opera of Chicago since 1957 and is the second president since the present corporate structure of tlie L)Tic was formed in 1956. Others on the 27-member board are Dr. Mor­ris Fishbein, Alfred O'Gara, Edward Ryerson and General Robert E. Wood, and Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley is lionorary chairman. The board han­dles the tremendous business problems of running a major opera company, while general manager Carol Fox and her stair direct artistic affairs—scores, sets, costumes, conductors and, presum­ably, the temperaments of artists like Maria Callas. Al finds the opera busi­ness very exciting, rather far removed from chemicals, but a long-time avoca­tion. 
Music is traditional in the Stepan family. AI's late father, also a chemi­cal executive, was an accomplished singer. The elder Stepan was soloist in tlie Marble Collegiate church in New York City the first time Henley's cele­brated "Invictus" was sung, on Easter, 1912. Al treasures a program from a performance of Rigoletto in Mann­heim, Germany, in 1859. In that per­formance 100 years ago Rigoletto was sung by his great-grandfather, one of the leading operatic baritones of his day. 
Al himself has sung witli the N.D . Glee Club and Chicago's Paulist Choir. As a small boy he sat in. the third row from the rear in the highest balcony ("with tlie real opera experts") ever)' Saturday afternoon for five seasons. During World War I he was in his "perch" when soldiers from Fort Sheri­dan and sailors from Great Lakes gave the great Galli-Curci such an ovation tliat she took a record number of bows. 
At 50, Al has been listening to opera for 42 years. He started making the musical rounds of Europe in 1924, and in tile summer of 1956 he and Mrs. Stepan went behind the "Iron Curtain" for a month to hear performances in Russia, Czechoslovakia, Poland and East Germany. 
Studied European Methods 
In May, before taking office as presi­dent of the Lyric, Al toured European opera houses to study their operating procedures, administrative methods, finances, etc. He visited tiie Staatsoper in Vienna, La Scala in Milan, and the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, London. 
Al has been a member of tiie Univer­sity's Associate Board of Lay Trustees since 1957. His son Alfred III, '58, is a Marine lieutenant on two-vear leave to attend Baliol College, Oxford, where he won his O.xford "blue" this past summer swimming against Cambridge^ A second son, Quinn, '59, is a lieuten­ant in missile training at Fort Bliss, Texas, while a third, Stratford, is .en­tering his junior year at N. D. A daugh­ter, Marilee, is an Oljinpic swimming veteran at 22. 
Exciting Season Frombed 
Famed for revivals of forgotten mas(^ terpieces and imaginative productions of more familiar works, the LJTIC Op­era promises a thrilling sixth season beginning October 12. Included are fresh settings of old favoritas like Bizet's Carmen, Massenet's Thais, Verdi's Masked Ball, Ponchielli's La Gioconda and Mozart's Cosi Fan Tutle, plus sel­dom-heard gems like AVagner's Flying Dutchman, Rossini's La Cenerentol^ (Cinderella), Verdi's Simon Boccane­gra, a repeat of Puccini's lush Turandot and the Chicago premiere of the Czech masterwork Jenufa by Leos Janacek. 
Lyric's roster of singers is dazzling— such American stars as Richard Tucker, Eileen Farrell, Leontj-ne Price and Jean Madeira; international favorites like Tito Gobbi, Birgit Nilsson, Giuseppe di Stefano, Elizabeth Schwarzkopf, etc.-\ lesser artists and talented newcomei? from both sides of the Atlantic. The company has also signed directors, con­ductors and designers from the world's finest opera houses. 
Bringing to the business of grand opera the same enthusiasm and profi­ciency they have shown in law and chemistry, Fi-ank Donovan and Alfred Stepan are demonstrating again that tiie "whole man" is nurtured at Noti* Dame. 

Van Wallace, '27, totally disabled since a swimming accident in his freshman year, appears with the new Ford station wagon from whichl he'll view Notre Dame football games this fall, the third car presented to Van by the N.D. Club of Detroit since 1937. Club members ai^ j University officials with him are (second from left to right) Pete Keman, Bill Roncy, Marce Verbicst, Joe Carey, Father George Bernard,! Gil Schaefer, Father Jerome Wilson, John Panelli, Tommy Sheehan and Tim Cruice. i-^ 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
M 


YOUR ALUMNI BOARD 
Field Secretary . . . General Survey of Alumni . . . Non-Graduate Membership . . . Continuing Education Program .. . Highlights of June Meeting 
Your national Board of Directors of the Alumni Association is one of the ^mos t efTective, least spotlighted factors in our alumni development. This comes from their own unselfish generosity and the fact that what the ALUMNUS and its editors say about the Board may seem on occasion like self-adulation. But in the increasing diversity and sig­nificance of your Association program, it becomes vital to waive these minor amenities in favor of acquainting you 
^wit h the fine representation and the many benefits your Board is bringing you. 
The Board, composed as you know, of twelve Directors, four elected each year for a three-year term, with the retiring past president an ex officio member for one year, elects its own of­ficers, and works now largely through sub-Committees. It meets three times 

^each year — usually in January, June and October. 
The University Placement Office, the Annual Alumni Fund, the Notre Dame Foundation, Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, are only a few of the strong programs which the Board has sponsored in the past. 

Its present programs are manifold, but two are of immediate interest and Concern to all alumni. 
SURVEY 
I. One is a Sur\*ey of Alumni, to be conducted in this 1959-60 year by John 
F. X. Ryan, South Bend, former member of the University faculty, now heading the Catholic Schools Psychological Ser\'ices. 
No Sur\'ey of our alumni has been made since 1941, the Centennial Survey. More 

^ha n 60% of our alumni have been gradu­ated since that time, and many of our older graduates were permanently displaced by the World War II years. No Religious Sur­vey of alumni has been made since 1940. 
It is vital to proper planning in the Alumni Association program, in the Ad­missions Office, in Placement, and in the Foundation, that we have a much clearer picture of our alumni. 
Dr. Ryan conducted a pilot study of 600 

scientifically selected alumni, and in the .^asis of this interesting preliminary report, ^the .general Survey, to be launched this 
fall, will be made. Every effort is being made to revise the pilot study to achieve ma.\imum utility and ma.\imum brevity. Most of the questions will be check answers, with only a few essay questions for more detailed data. 
The effectiveness of the Survey will de­pend entirely on participation, and indi­vidual alumni, Clubs and Classes, mil be urged to work toward 70 to 80% results. 

LOCAL CLUB ORGANIZER 
II. The second major Board project is a special representative of the University and the Alumni Association to serve as a spur to Local Alumni Club organization. 
Our Clubs have grown since 1925 from 40 to 170 in number, and Club programs have gro\vn within each Club to impressive proportions. The benefits of well-organized Clubs to the members, to the community, and to the University has become increas­ingly apparent. 
The Board feels that it owes a tremen­dous debt of gratitude to the Club officers whose volunteer work has led to this great stature, but it feels that to consolidate these gains, to insure continuing growth, and to achieve a more uniform program, more at­tention must be given from the campus to the Club organization. 
Further announcement on this project will be forthcoming soon to the Clubs and the alumni generally. 
NON-GRADUATE MEMBERSHIP 
III. Over the years, the Alumni Associa­tion has offered full membership constitu­tionally to those non-graduate former stu­dents "whose entering Class shall have been graduated," and who make application for such membership on available forms to the .•\lumni Board. Activity in our Local Clubs, correspondence with Class Secretaries, in­terest in football games, prominence in the community or in a business or profession, have been our major sources of contact with these former students. In interest and in activity, to the Association and to the Uni­versity, they have made valuable additions. The Board encourages this program. 
SYMPATHY 
To J. Patrick Canny, '28, 
past president of the Alumn! Association, 
on the death of bis beloved ivife August 25, 1959 
REUNION REVISION 

IV. The Committee on Class Activities is concerned with the imminent need for a change in the Class Reunion pattern, when the increasing number in attendance (now totalling 1,000) will demand some change in our tradition. It is appealing to the Class Secretaries (and to all of you) to devote thought to the presen'ation of present Re­union benefits and still adapt ourselves to the space demands of the dining halls, for e.xample, the Church, and our auditorium facilities. 
OTHER ALUMNI 

V. The Committee on Inter-.'Mumni Af­fairs has given long study to our relations mth the alimfini of other colleges and uni­versities. Its present conclusion is that our smaller Local Clubs can find much inter­ested augmentation for their programs in the local graduates of other colleges and universities, especially Catholic, who do not yet have local organization. This is particu­larly true for family social functions or for speakers on topics of educational impor­tance. 
BOARD NOMINEES 

VI. The Nominating Committees are working on proposals to improve the nom­inating procedures. But your Board is agreed that over the last 15 years, under the pres­ent structure, an amazing amount of repre­sentation (consciously sought for by previous Committees) has been achieved in geogra­phy, in Class grouping, in business and pro­fessional activities, and that this broad pattern, especially in view of the limited number of Directors, ought to be studied most carefully before changes are made. Club and Class officers suggestions have aided the Board Committees greatly. Your suggestions are ahvays welcome. 

CONTINUING EDUCATION 

VII. Elsewhere in this issue you will find the announcement (see Editorial Com­ments) on one of the most significant proj­ects of your Board, achieved as are many of its projects with University cooperation 
— this time the creation of a department in the ALUMNUS for continuing the intel­lectual stimulus of our alumni after they have left the campus, through articles and suggested reading material from faculty members. 
Conclusion: This is only a summary of one Board meeting. It is the hope of the Editor that it will give you a deeper in­sight into the long hours which your Board devotes to you and to Notre Dame. It is the Board's hope that calling these diverse programs to your attention will enlist your suggestions. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 15 
Zke Umversity Zoday... 
ALUMNI: ACCOMPLISHMENT AND CONTROVERSY 
A total of 51 grants for graduate study and research have-been awarded to '^9 graduates and current graduate students at Notre Dame. The University's 22 Woodrow Wilson Fellowship winners constituted the fifth largest group at any college or university in the nation. Record totals were also registered with National Science Foundation, Danforth, Fulbright and Smith-Mundt Act grants. 
In a recent issue of Cap and Gown, the Notre Dame faculty publication. Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong roundly condemned a practice employed in the paragraph above—"the lumping of alumni in statistical form." In observations entitled "Wasting Our Natural Resources," he also denounced the labeling of alumni as one of the Uni­versity's "publics" and "treating the embryo alumnus, the student, as a 'number' or an IBM card, rather than as a person." 
Urging faculty members to treat incoming freshmen— and, incidentally, themselves—as individuals with individual backgrounds, attributes and potentialities, he also appealed to all advisors to keep up Notre Dame's person-to-person tradition and added: "Rectors and prefects and other ad­ministrators con help greatly by trying to avoid the excess demands that keep them from meeting students (and alum­ni, and parents). . . . The difference in atmosphere comes from more demands on the priests outside the old rector and prefect relationships." 
From Rev. Charles W. Harris, C.S.C, rector of Howard Hall, came this rejoinder: "I should like to point up one of the facts that contribute to some of the impersonoliza­tion. . . . twenty years ago, 1936-37, there were 55 Holy Cross priests on the faculty plus four engaged in full-time administration .. . 2818 students . . . one priest for every 
51.2 students. .. . In 1956-57 there were 68 Holy Cross priests on the faculty—an increase of 13 in twenty years —plus 10 in full-time administration. With 5600 students . . . this means one priest for every 82.3 students. .. . 1 think you will agree that this is a decided decrease in the ratio of priests to students. . . . 
"The present situation is even less satisfactory. There exist today three vacancies among the prefects simply be­cause there have been no replacements for priests who have become too ill to continue their duties there. . . . 
"Under these circumstances it is not surprising that con­tact with students, relatives of students and alumni has diminished. Many of us hove mode it a point to reduce contact with alumni and relatives of students simply to have time for the students who are our direct responsibility. This is not a desirable situation, but perhaps if the alumni were aware of the facts they might understand why we seem to hove so little time for the person-to-person contact we all value." 
PERIODICALS: MILESTONES FOR THE REVIEW AND NATURAUST 
Twenty years of publication for the Notre Dame quar­terly Review of Politics are represented by 28 outstanding articles from its pages in The Image of Man, a book pub­lished recently by the Notre Dome Press ($6.00). Edited by Professors M. A. Fitzsimons, Frank O'Malley and Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C, associated with the Review since 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
its inception in 1939, the volume includes articles by the 
late founding editor Waldemar Gurion, Jacques Maritain, 
the late Don Luigi Sturzo, Christopher Dawson, Yves Simon, 
John Nef, Aaron Abel I, etc. 
Celebrating its 50th birthday this year. The American 
Midland Naturalist, a scientific journal founded by Rev. 
Julius A. Nieuwlond, C.S.C, in 1909, has international pres-^ 
tige and subscribers in 45 foreign countries as well as 
throughout the United States. A general biological peri­
odical, the Naturalist also includes studies in paleontology, 
zoology and botany, for which field it was named by its 
celebrated botanist-chemist founder. It is currently edited i 
by Dr. Robert E. Gordon, assisted by Rev. Cletus Bochofer, 
C.S.C, and Profs. George R. Bernard, George B. Craig and 
Robert P. Mcintosh, all of the biology faculty, and 16 osso-! 
ciate editors who are specialists in American universities, 
museums, etc. 

FACULTY: APPOINTMENTS, APPEARANCES, PROMOTIONS AND PUBLICATIONS 
Forty-two new faculty members have been appointed 
for the 1959-60 school year. Full professorships were 
awarded to five men, three of them named department 
heads and the other two to serve as visiting professors 
for the year. 

Beginning as department heads will be Profs. Julius T. 
Banchero in chemical engineering, a heat transfer specialis<iif 
from the University of Michigan; Horry C. Saxe in civil 
engineering, a structural theorist from the University of 
Cincinnati, and Ralph E. Thorson in biology, an alumnus 
who has been a professor of parasitology at Auburn. 
Also named full professors ore R. Gordon Brown, city planning authority and former dean of architecture at the University of Hong Kong, and Hans Sossenhous, algebraist and group theorist from McGill University, in mathematics. San-ichiro Mizushima, professor of physical chemistry at Tokyo University and former Reilly lecturer, will be a visiting professor of chemistry. ^• 
Promotion of thirteen established faculty members was announced earlier at the annual President's Dinner, at­tended by approximately 700 members of faculty and administration and their wives. Honored guests were Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, and Prof. Leo Kuntz, who retired this year, and Profess.or Emeritus Knowles B. Smith and Rev. Francis P. Covonough, C.S.C, observing 50th and 25th anniversaries respectively at Notre Dame. 
Rev. Chester Soleto, C.S.C, vice president for academic affairs, announced the promotion of the following: Profes^ sors Otto Bird (General Program), Rev. Cletus Bochofer*' 
C.S.C.
 (biology), and Bernard D. Cullity (metallurgy); Associate Profesors Robert F. Christin (English), Journet 

D.
 Kahn (Gen. Program), Louis Pierce (chemistry), and Kwang-Tzu Yang (mechanical engineering); and Assistant Professors Rev. John P. Dolan, C.S.C, (history), Rev. Henry 

A.
 Guess, CS.C (classics), Robert J. Lordi (English), Rev. Patrick H. Moloney, C.S.C (music),Gilbert L. Rathbun (com­munication arts), and Rev. Ernon McMullin (philosophy). 


A veteran faculty member. Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C, was appointed head of the department of religion, sue-, ceeding Rev. Roland. Simonitsch, C.S.C, who joins the-'' faculty of the University.'of Portland (Ore.). Father Pelton received his S.T.D. from .the Angelicum in Rome, is a planner 
for the annual Institutes of Spirituality, author and editor of works on spiritual direction. Active in Latin-American 
•student affairs, he has also been rector of several resi­dence halls. Two faculty members ore lecturing and researching in Europe during the 1959-60 academic year on Fulbright grants. Wienczyslaw J. Wagner, associate professor in the Law School, will lecture on American and comparative law at the University of Paris and University of Rennes in France. Ralph M. Mclnerny, assistant professor of philos­ophy, will conduct philosophical research at the University of Louvain in Belgium. 
^_ Dr. Erhord M. Winkler, associate professor of geology, 
^a s been awarded a grant by the Office of Naval Research to team up with his wife, a pilot, on an aerial photography project with special camouflage detection film developed by the Navy, with which he will interpret glacial deposits from color photos. Professor Wagner, mentioned above, has written The Federal States and Their Judiciary, a 390-page compara­tive study of the judicial systems of seven nations, pub­lished in English by Mouton and Co., The Hague, Holland. Three Notre Dame mathematicians have collaborated 
^^n Introduction to Analysis, the first textbook of a two-volume course in mathematical analysis published by Ginn and Co. The authors ore Dr. Norman Haaser and Dr. Joseph Sullivan, associate professors of mathematics, and a former professor. Dr. Joseph LaSalle. Representatives of the economics faculty appeared at various meetings last spring. Professor Warren J. Bilkey addressed the Central Michigan Chapter of the Notional Machine Accountants Assn. on "Economic Problems in Per­sonal Financing." Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, and Prof. John Sheehan attended a seminar at Cornell University 
sponsored by the AFL-CIO, while Profs. Paul Montavon and ^A/arren Bilkey represented the department at meetings of the Midwestern Economic Association. 
SUMMER SESSION: RECORD ENROLLMENT, EXPERIMENT AND COMMENCEMENT 
More than 1,700 nuns, priests and brothers from the Catholic educational system studied for advanced degrees during the 37th annual summer session, while lay students swelled the total summer enrollment to 2,627, the largest 
^ n the University's history. Approximately 300 summer courses were offered, largely on the graduate level, with education and art boasting the largest enrollments. The Notional Science Foundation sponsored well-attended insti­tutes in mathematics and chemistry for teacher training pro­grams. Also highly enrolled, mostly by religious, school and hospital superiors, was the College of Commerce M.B.A. program. The summer liturgy program, with a faculty of liturgical authorities from Europe and the U.S., and writing workshops of the department of communication arts, at­
tracted 0 great number of registrants. 
" The University expanded its experiment with closed-circuit television as a teaching medium in "advanced moth. About 180 teachers, most of them nuns, took the summer course in "Higher Algebra and Analytic Geometry" via TV lectures by Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the mathematics de­partment, viewed by a small audience in the WNDU-TV studios and on monitors in several classrooms in the Engi­neering Building. Supplementing the daily lectures were regular seminars conducted by the mathematics faculty. Still considered the infant phase of a large project, the experiment employed a full studio staff, new graphic de­
vices, and microphones in the classrooms. Dr. Ross con­siders the experiment a necessary response to mushrooming enrollments. 
Degrees were awarded to approximately 250 grad­uates, most of them nuns, at summer commencement exer­cises August 4. Honorary doctorates were conferred on Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C, veteran teacher and editor in his 50th year of priesthood, now serving as chaplain of the Student Infirmary, and Sister Mary Emil Penet, I.H.M., national leader of the Sister Formation Conferences.. Dr. Otto Bird, director of the General Program, was commence­ment speaker, and Rev. James Doll, C.S.C, of Lobund, delivered the baccalaureate sermon. 
LATE SUMMER: CONFERENCES, CONVENTIONS AND CONVOCATIONS 
His Eminence Richard Cardinal Cushing, Archbishop of Boston, addressing the formal opening of the seventh annual Institute of Spirituality in August, told more than a thousand leaders of women's religious communities that intelligence, emotional stability and capacity for adjust­ment to change are requisites of a good religious superior. Balancing prudence and piety, the practical and specu­lative, the New England prelate told the nuns that the qualities of spiritual leadership hove analogies in secular administration. The week-long institute, sponsored by the religion department, featured lectures and workshops on the theme "The Superior and the Personal Development of the Subject-Religious," treating everything from Christian womanhood to mental health. 
The annual meeting of the History Teachers' Club of Notre Dame, attended by 150 high school history teachers back in July, included talks and panels by Dr. Jean Bel­liard, French consul general in Chicago; Drs. Stephen Ker­fesz and John J. Kennedy of the N. D. Committee on Inter­national Relations. 
In mid-August Rev. Gilbert Hortke, O.P., head of the drama department at Catholic University, keynoted the 12th biennial convention of the National Catholic Theater Conference, attended by 1600 high school, college and community thespions. Under the theme "God Behind the Masque," workshops dealt with all phases of dramatic production. 
His Eminence Giacomo Cardinal Lercaro, Archbishop of Bologna, came to the U. S. to deliver a major address on "Liturgy and Social Action" and receive on honorary 
LL.D. from Notre Dame in a special convocation August 24, as part of the 20th annual North American Liturgical week observed on campus by 1500 religious and laymen. Bishop Leo Pursley of Fort Wayne opened the week, marked by numerous studies and displays on the renewed liturgy. 
Archbishop Albert G. Meyer of Chicago was a major speaker at the 11th annual convention of the Christian Family Movement, also addressed by Senator Eugene Mc­Carthy of Minnesota, former Democratic National Chairman Stephen Mitchell and other experts on politics. About 700 CFM couples and 200 chaplains came to study the role of the family in political and international life. 
FAMILY POSTSCRIPTS 
The University mourned the April death of Mrs. Lillian Smith O'Shaughnessy, beloved wife of I. A. O'Shaughnessy, Laetare medalist and trustee, and donor with him of O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. . . . Rev. Alfonso Scott, grandson of late medalist Joseph Scott, was ordained in Los Angeles in May. . . . The trophy room in the Student Center is dedicated to the memory of Robert 
C. Herlihy, '52, killed in action on the day of the Korean Armistice. .. . A scholarship honoring Bishop Fulton J. Sheen has been established by the family of John J. Bundschuh, Jr., '54, of New York City. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 17 
THE NEED FOR TALENTED LAW STUDENTS, 
In his Annual Report for 1958-59, Dean O'Meara makes a personal plea to every Notre Dame lawjer and every friend of Notre Dame to be on the watch for talented prospective law students and to bring to their attention the many ad\'antages of the Notre Dame Law School. 
The number of lawyers in relation to population has been declining. Dean O'Meara said, calling attention to figures compiled recently by the Survey of the Legal Profession. The Dean's Report con­tinues: 
"Briefly, the figures compiled by the Suney of the Legal Profession show that: 
1.
 There were 25,732 fewer la^vyers admitted to practice in the decade 1940­49 than in the preinous decade, notwith­standing a population increase of 27,000,000. 

2.
 Since 1949 the number of lawyers admitted to practice has decreased stead­ily from 89 per million of the population in that year to 57 per million of the population in 1956. 

3.
 Thus the number admitted to prac­tice, relative to the population, has been declining for 26 years. 



"And, taking the country as a whole, there has been a long-term downward trend in the number of law students. Even more serious, the ablest college graduates, by and large, are not studying law; they are being 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 

beguiled into graduate work looking toward a scientific or an academic career. Now, it may be true that we need more scientists and engineers. But if more scientists and engineers arc needed, they are needed to advance the arts of war. That is dreadfully important, I agree. But it is even more important to learn to keep the peace and . . . for that purpose it is lawj-crs that wc need, not scientists and engineers. 
"As for the wdely heralded need for more teachers, I agree with Mr. Beardsley Ruml: if all the trivia were removed from high school and college curricula, I think it altogether likely there would be teachers aplenty — and higher salaries for those who deserve them. 
"The American Bar Association is con­cerned about the decrease in the number and quality of law students. President Malone has said: 
*. . . one of the two major factors which control the quality of the legal profession is the quality and character of the indi­\nduals who are attracted to the study of law . . . the current national emphasis on the need for a greater number of scien­tifically trained men and women, combined mth the dramatic accomplishments of science during the last decade, have com­bined to affect materially the quantity and quality of young men and young women applying for admission to law schools. 
' . . . there is . . . general concurrence that we have not yet felt the full impact 
NEW OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
Mr. Albert H. Monacelli, '34 of Dunning-ton, Bartholow & Miller, New York City, ^vas elected President of the Notre Dame Law ."Association at the annual meeting at the Law School in June. Also elected were: 
Honorar)- President, Roger P. Brennan, '33, of Cleveland, Ohio Vice President, John J. Locher, Jr., '36L, of Cedar Rapids, Iowa Secretary-Treasurer, George H. Gore, '48L, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Executive Secretary, Thomas L. Murray, '51L, of South Bend, Ind. Newly elected directors of the Association are: 
L. Vincent Burke, Jr., '33, of Pittsbui^h. Pa. Francis X. Fallon, '33, of Grand Rapids, 
Mich. Robert F. Graham, '28, of Chicago,' 111. Joseph P. McNamara, '29L, of Bridge­
port, Conn. 

Directors previously elected and con­tinuing in ofBce, in addition to the officers, are: 
William E. Bradbury, '23L, of Robin­son, III. Michael L. Hines, '48L, of Las Vegas, Nevada William T. Huston, '51L, of Los .Angeles, Calif. James P. Swift, '24L, of Dallas, Texas. 
LAW ASSOCIATION LUNCHEON 

The Notre Dame Law Association Lunch­eon, held each year in connection with the of the situation and that it will get worse before it gets better. . . . 
'The problem was presented to the Board of Governors of the American Bar Associa­tion at its fall meeting. .. . At that time the Board of Governors authorized the in­stitution of a program to accelerate the recruitment of law students with emphasis on abilit>-.' 
**We at Notre Dame have a responsi­bility to turn out our share — yes, and -, more than our share — of the la\v>-ers so -' urgently needed to meet the awful chal­lenges of the modem world — lawyers technically competent to ser\'e their clients well who, at the same time, are equipped for responsible leadership in a troubled world. Accordingly, we are going to have to extend and intensify our recruitment program. 
"As I said in my last .'\nnual Report: 

'The recruitment program is not de­signed merely to enlarge the student body.^ Its primary purpose is to attract outstanding -^ students — students who have the ability to become great la%v}'ers and leaders. Excel­lence is our platform and we can be con­tent with nothing less. Just as Notre Dame athletic teams always play to win, so the Notre Dame Law School is determined that its graduates shall be able to compete with and excel the best from the best schools in the land. To that end it is just as necessary for us as it is for the coaches to get the very best talent available.'" 
Annual Meeting of the American Bar As­sociation, ^vas scheduled for the Beau Rivage Hotel in Miami Beach on August 26. All Notre Dame law)-ers at the ABA meeting were expected to attend the luncheon. George H. Gore, '48L of Fort Lauderdale, was in charge of arrangements and also presided. Dean O'Meara vms the speaker. 
'54 REUNION Under the leadership of Donald W." Bebenek, now practicing in Pittsburgh, the Law Class of '54 celebrated in June the fifth anniversary of graduation. In view of the success of the affair, hopes are high for the reunion next June of the Class of '55. 
FACULTY NOTES Professor W. J. Wagner has left for France. He has a Fulbright lectureship and_^ will spend next year lecturing at the Uni-^*' versities of Paris and Rennes, and at the International University of Comparative Sciences at Luacemburg. Professor Conrad L. Kellcnberg has re­turned after spending a year at the Yale Law School writing a book on real property. Mr. Harris Wofford, Jr. has been ap­pointed visiting associate professor for re­search. He did his undergraduate work at the University of Chicago and in 1954 re­ceived an LL.B. from the Yale Law School. Mr. Wofford has been serving as Father^^ Hesburgh's legal assistant on the Commis­sion on Civil Rights. He is a man of extra­(Continued on page 29) 
the average participation for the 610 schools' of only 22.5%. Needless to say the Associ­ation and the Universitj- are most grateful. 
Bfll Cotter Speaks 

On Four Matters Self Study 
In an organization as large and as wide­

Of Importance 
spread as ours there are a great many im­portant matters with which the -Alumni Di­rectors can be concerned. One of our diffi­cult tasks is to determine those things which are important to you as indinduals, to the classes, and, of course, to the 170 Notre Dame Clubs throughout the world. We think that by concentration on our present 
committee responsibilities we are covering important areas. We do not feel, however, that we know enough about our own Alum­ni to perform a completely satisfactor>-serv­

To The Family ice to them, or to the Universitj- nor are we in a position to do the kind of long-
Bv WILLIAM E. COTTER^ JR., '41 
ALUJINI 
(Ed. Note: This statement is con­

^densed from President Cotter's Report to the Alumni at the Reunion Banquet of June 13, 1959. J. L.) 
To many of you the work of the Alumni Board may be a mystery. Let me assure you at the outset that the Board is a real and living thing and that the twelve men who compose it look on their three-year responsibilit)' to represent the Alumni with ver)' seri­

_ ous respect. Our official job is to rep­
^resent you and all the members of our Alumni in the undertakings of our asso­ciation. AVe try hard to assist the Uni­versity and the Alumni in the several areas of our committee assignments to advise and to act on matters of Club and Class Activities, Preparatory' School work, Placement, Interalumni Affairs, 
N. D. Foundation efforts. Student Ad­missions, Religion and Citizenship, As­sociation budgets and many other vital 

^things. 
Underlying all of the objectives of our Association is the family concept of the alumni — that whatever we do must be done for the good of the in­tegral family of faculty, students, ad­ministration and alumni. What we do is done to strengthen this family rela­tionship so that our alumnus feels a close personal attachment to the family 

0an d can share in all the joys and sor­rows which any family must bear. With , this thought in mind I want to report to you on some of the matters which your Alumni Board considers to be of importance to all of us in the family. 
Gratitude 

The most important matter I have to talk about has to do with gratitude — with ^a n expression of very sincere thanks to all Vthe members of our association for your many contributions to Notre Dame. I use the word contribution in the broad sense — 
 PRESIDENT 
to encompass not just the dollars we have given but to include all of the personal sac­rifices — your time and your efforts in the past in those many activities throughout the country which mean so much to Notre Dame's ^-alucd name. Too often we consider .•Mumni work as money-raising effort only and too often we fail to realize that a tre­mendous amount of prestige and great repu­tation of Notre Dame is due to the per­sonal attention of many Notre Dame gradu­ates to matters not concerned with fund raising. We must not forget that the .Alum­nus who may not have given to the Founda­tion may have made a greater gift to Notre Dame by the advice and guidance he pro­vided high school boys who are interested in Notre Dame — or by giving his time and studied attention to the great variety of ef­fective Notre Dame Club activities, or by the example he has set in his community as a recognized Notre Dame man who appre­ciates his responsibilities as a Catholic lay­man. This Alumnus deser\*es all the appre­ciation we can show. .-\nd for such effort I extend the fondest thanks of the .Alumni As­sociation. The record of the past speaks eloquently 'of the significance of such help to Notre Dame by Alumni acting as indi­viduals or as Notre Dame club committee 
men. 
Foundation 

Now before Father Cavanaugh and the able members of his staff accuse me of un­doing their Foundation efforts, let me also e.xpress a'loud and clear word of thanks to the -Alumni for their great part in the Foun­dation in 1958. 
The report for 1958 shows that .Alumni contributions amounted to almost $700,000 and that we had a 19% increase in the average gift from the individual Alumnus. 
Certainly we can be rightfully proud of our record of .Alumni giving. You all noted, I am sure, in a recent mailing from the Foundation office that according to a 1957­58 survey published this year by the .Ameri­can .Alumni Council, Notre Dame ranked fourth out of 610 schools in Private Univer­sity Alumni participation. Approximately 50% of all Notre Dame Alumni contributed something to .Alumni support in the 1957-58 periods. This compares most favorably with range planning we must do for our future good. It was with this thought in mind that a self-study sur\-ey of all Alumni has been undertaken to gather and evaluate in­formation concerned with Notre Dame Alumni which can be of use to us and the Universitv- in areas of Alumni Programming, Public Relations, Placement, Foundation and others. 
We think that a survey which reaches all Notre Dame men can provide the Alumni Office and the University with valuable in­formation which can be used for such a pur­pose as: The projection of enrollment ex­pected from Alumni families in future years so that some specific planning can be per­formed to assist the sons of Alumni; to as­sist in our efforts to maintain our Alumni -Association in a manner which best serves the -Alumni and the University. 
The survey will be conducted by an ex­perienced and competent professional firm which has already made the necessary pilot study. -After several months of refinement work have taken p^ace, a final form of a questionnaire will be mailed to each mem­ber of the Alumni -Association. The success of these efforts is entirely dependent upon the willingiiess and cooperation of the in­dividual Alumnus. Knowing the great spirit 
(Continued on page 29) 
WM. E. COTTER, JR. Grateful for your time. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 19 
114th CommeHcement... 
To Manifest Faith Against 
Austrian Prelate Tells How Prayer Was Tested by Anschluss Terrors 
His Eminence Franz Cardinal Konig, 

.•\rclibishoi) of \"ienna. and Cliainnan 
John .-v. McConc of tlie U. S. .-Vtomic 
Energ\- Conniiission were tlie principal 
spcakcis at tin- University of Notre 
Danic"s 11-1th annual commencement 
exercises June 7. 
The .-\iistiian jjrelatc preached the 

baccalaureate sermon diirins; a Solemn 
Pontifical Mass celebrated by Bishoj) 
Leo A. Pmsley of Fort Wayne in the 
stadiinii at 9 a.m. 
Baccalaureate Sermon 
C.Trdinal Konig commented on the out­

standinir rontribution Father llesburgh had 
made and the honor he brought to Notre 
Dame as \'atican representative with Mr. 
Frank Folsom in X'ienna in 1958 "by his 
skill and friendliness in several critical situa­
tions." 
He jjraised Cardinal O'llara, who, at the Consistor\-. "stood ne.xt to me, and after­wards as he talked to me with enthusiasm about his years of work at Xotre Dame. I felt that the Moly Father honored in him also the University of Xotre Dame . . ." 
"Entirely in God's Hands'" 

Cardinal Konig said, "I would like to address a few words to the graduates this morning about the virtues that our age demands from intelligent young men. I can speak of these from my own experi­ence as chaplain to high school and uni­versity students during those dark years when you were still children and my coun­try was under the rule of un-Christlan forces between 19.)8 and 1945. Many of those young students had to fight in the schools against un-Christian teachings. Later they were forced into military ser\*ice during the atrocities of those terrible years. I was very often surprised how well they could live up to the ideals of their Catholic re­ligion. I was also often afraid that they might give way to their milieu, but when I received their letters from the battlefields, I saw how deeply rooted was their faith and how they had grown to the fullness of Christian life. That showed me how im­portant it is for a young man to carry out 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. (second from right, front row), president, conferred honorary degrees on seven distinguished figures at the 114th annual commencement. Honorary doctorates were awarded to (I. to r., front row) Sir Hugh Stott Taylor, president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, X. J.; His Eminence Franz Cardinal Koenig, Archbishop of Vienna, and Chairman John A. McConc of the U. S. .•\toniic Energ)- Conniiission, the connnencement speaker. Other honorary degree recipients were (second row, 1. to r.) Rev. .John A. O'Brien, noted author and veteran Notre Dame faculty tiiembcr; Prof. Frederick D. Rossini, head of the department of chemistry at Carnegie ^ Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Harrj- Hagerty, financial vice president of the .Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., New York, N. Y.; and John AValker, director of the Na­tional Gallery of .Art, \Vashington, D. C. Approximately 1,300 Notre Dame students re­ceived graduate and undergraduate degrees at the exercises in the stadium. 
the consequences of his faith, to manifest openly what he reveres, the strength and beauty of our religion ... " 
Cardinal Konig collected many of these letters and published them under the title "Entirely in God's Hands." He read some of the profound and touching excerpts from several of these letters. He commented: 
"From this you can see how important prayer is to remain in close touch with God and to feel His special protection. For everybody the moment comes when all cre­ation, all the things that were familiar to him, start passing away. Even family, friends, his profession — all those things begin to lose their importance. .At such a time, only one thing matters having served God truly and having been a devoted mem­ber of the Church. Evcrj- man seeks peace and happiness in hours of danger. . . . 
Perhaps you will even be able to help others and to make the world better, but through prayer you will first have the strength with­in yourself.'' 
Cardinal Konig concluded, "These young^ ; men had been students and they found the real test of their life when they were in danger of death .. . I would also like to remind you once more of the importance 1 of the counsels given to you very often in I the past. They have their meaning now and always. It does not matter If you s succeed only in your profession, but it does matter ver\' nmch for you to master your life so that your career and all your actions correspond to the \Vill of God. You must know that you are on the right way. From •^ jr prayer, from the Holy Sacrifice of the " !• Mass, you must find strength to overcome | all difiicultles." ( 
I. 

20 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1959 
J14tk CommencemeHt.. 
the Challenge of the Atom 
• AEC Chairman Describes Impact and Implications of Nuclear Development 
Chainnan McCone was the com­mencement speaker at exercises be­ginning at 2 p.m. in the stadimn. 
 Conuiicnceinent Address 
Chairman McCone said, '*I deeply and sincerely appreciate the great honor that Notre Dame has today given me. I accept it as a trust. With God's help I shall tr>- to be worthy of that trust. 
"This honor links me to the glorious tra­dition of Xotre Dame. Through the tra­dition of great teaching and sound direc­tion, young men are equipped, as feu* others in this countr>'. to face with hope and faith 

^th c challenging and perplexing world of 
^ today. 
"Thus, when you leave these halls with your degree you start with the ad\*antage of an unusual endowment in mind and in Christian spirit. 
*Tn this scientific era, many of you will enter fields of specialization. Some of you will find careers in sciences, others in the humanities. May T, as one who was trained as an engineer in a less exacting era, sug­gest that you do not overlook the rich 

^rewards that come from enriching your minds through a knowledge of many areas of human concern. The life of the fully developed person, the truly cultured man, is marked by an understanding of the humanities and the social sciences, as well as technical and scientific matters. To that we add the requirement of a belief in God, and a trust in the Christian way of life. . , . 
"My concern, as you men know, and as Father Plesburgh has said, is the atom. 

^ "The .-Vtomlc Energy Commission's re­sponsibility in this new and exciting scien­tific field is all encompassing. 
"Let me briefly discuss the scope of our activities. ^Ve are, on the one hand, our nation's nuclear armorer. On the other hand, wc are charged by law with the chal­lenge of bringing the atom into the daily lives of the people of our great country and, indeed, of the world. 
"We hope and we pray that understand­ing among men will improve as we pursue ^an d succeed in the second of these two responsibilities — the use of the atom for peaceful purposes. Then wc and all others will know that the atom will ser\'e alwavs 
for man's benefit and advanccnicnt, never for his destruction." Chairman McConc. after an outline of the Commission functions, added: 
"Beyond our direct suppjort of such vital research programs, we help universities acquire the specialized equipment needed for instruction in the advanced fields of our concern. Grants-in-aid have been made for the purchase of simple subcrltical assemblies to acquaint students with the nature and control of the fission process. Some univer­sities have also been provided laboratory-equipment for use in other instruction. By such means will this nation be ensured a supply of well-trained scientists and engi­neers so essential to its welfare and future development. 

"The management of our laboratories, the direction of our research effort, the performance of essential work in your own institutions in cooperation with us represents the link between the University and the -Atomic Energy Commission. 
"There exists a carefully designed and well-constructed bridge between the uni­versity and the Atomic Energy' Commission in our relentless search for new knowledge In nuclear science. 
"Specific examples of this relationship are the ad\-anced genetics program of the California Institute of Technology, the high energy physics research of Han.-ard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology-, and the basic materials research at Iowa State at Ames. But none, in my opinion, is of greater importance to us, and to the people of the world, than the basic research In radiology and radiation chemistry carried on year after year here in Xotre Dame. In these fields you excel. We consider your efforts pillars of our research program, and I believe this work will expand substantially with time. 
Foresees Radiation Lab 

"I can foresee a new, fine laboratory on this campus which will be devoted ex­clusively to basic research in radiation chemistry. Your faculty feels it essential. ^Vays will be found to provide it. Person­ally, I feel it is within the province of the Government to help universities with their scientific work by providing facilities essen­tial to both Government and university needs. I am an advocate of these programs. 
(Continued on next page) 

Two princes of the Catholic Church visited the University during commencement week. Cardinal Koenig (extreme left), delivered the baccalaureate sermon June 7. His Eminence Alfredo Cardinal Ottaviani (second from left), Pro-Secrctarj* of the Supreme Congre­gation of the Holy Office, became an honorary Notre Dame alumnus at a special pre-com­menccment convocation in Sacred Heart Church June 6. Shown here greeting the European prelates arc (1. to r.) Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort WayTie; Archbishop Paul C. Schulte of Indianapolis; and Father Hesburgh. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1959 21 
ducted by Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., 
n4th COMMENCEMENT (^""-^ "-prefect of religion. ^
previous page) 

I believe that our progress in atomic energy, in defense, and in the space age, require the best in the university. This is the starting point, as I have said, of the search for new scientific knowledge. 
"In these few minutes my purpose has 

been to present in the broadest terms a pic­
ture of our activities and the interrela­
tionship of the university and the Atomic 
Energy Commission in the conduct of our 
affairs. 
"\Vithout the university in its persistent drive for truth and basic knowledge, the atom might never have been split. The great plants at Oak Ridge, Paducah, and Han-ford, might never have been built AVithout the university our nation's progress in the application of the atom in the fields of biolog>-, medicine, agriculture, and industr>­
— and for the production of power — 
would, in my opinion, be at a stand­
still ... 
"The atom will bear on the lives of all 

of you. It will change the world in which 
you lis-c. Thus, it demands your thoughtful 
concern. Basic research now in progress 
will open new vistas for you. Theories being 
formulated and tested this verj' moment 
may give you new ways to obtain energy, 
food, transportation, water, and almost 
evcr>' material human needs. 
"Present-day work of mathematicians and physicists •— some no older than you — will provide new means to sustain and en­rich man's lives. 
"During your lifetime man will produce electricity on this earth by a means which heretofore the sun alone had used. Before that, however, the energy of your era will increasingly be supplied by the nuclear re­actor. This in itself will change many things in your lifetime — the economics of industrial geography, the standards of engi­neering practice, the raw material needs of the giant utility manufacturing industr>'. 
"Lastly, you will be citizens of an age of change. Whatever you do — you will do in new ways with new tools and new products and new ideas . . . 
"There is need in public life for men of your training: men who have had the pri\'i­lege of Catholic education; men whose ideals and \'alues of life have been molded by the dedicated Fathers in Notre Dame as they have given you the instruction which you have this day completed . . . 
"Many of you will find your future in the field of my principal concern, atomic energy. I hope this will be so, for I be­lieve man's ability to sur\-ive on this earth hinges upon his success in developing ways to use the atom for the benefit of mankind 
— never for its destruction. Men with the training and the deep convictions which prox-ldentially have come to you are needed to undertake this task and to do it well." 
Father Hesburgh conferred eight honorary' degrees and 1,280 graduate and undergraduate degrees during the ceremonies. 
Honorar)' degree recipients, in ad­dition to the two speakers, include Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, head of the de­
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
partment of chemistr)', Carnegie Insti­tute of Technolog)', Pittsburgh, Pa.; Sir Hugh Stott Taylor, president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, N. J.; Rev. John A. O'Brien, author of religious and piiiiosophical books and a veteran Notre Dame faculty member: Harr)' 
C. Hagert)', financial vice president. Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., New York Cit}'; and John Walker, director of the National Gallerj- of Art, AVash­ington, D. C. . Following tlie Baccalaureate Mass in the morning Father Hesburgh blessed the American flag which tlie senior class presented to the University' on ^Vashington's Birthday. 
On the day before graduation 236 members of the senior class received commissions in the Army, Air Force, Na\'y and Marines Corps during Class Day e-xercises in tlie University Drill Hall. The program also included the awarding of prizes- to outstanding stu­dents. Student speakers included class president John Hayward, Toledo, Ohio; valedictorian Lucio A. Noto, Englewood Cliffs, N. J.; and class orator John M. Maloney, Fairless Hills, Pa. 
The senior class made its traditional "Last Visit" to Sacred Heart Church on the campus. The ceremony was con-
A new nuclear reactor at the University is prepared for operation by inserting natural uraniiun fuel rods. Dr. Marcel K. Newman (left) head of the department of mechani­cal engineering and director of nuclear engineering, supervises the project. Assist­ing him is Conrad Szubert, '34, assistant professor of mechanical engineering. The new reactor, provided by grants from the 
U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, will he used primarily for instructing more than 40 students enrolled in nuclear engineering courses. 
" A highlight event of the 1959 Com-^ mencement week end was the Special Convocation in Sacred Heart Church on Saturday morning, June 6 at which the University conferred its Doctor of Laws, honoris cauia, on Alfredo Car­dinal Ottaviani, "a Prince of the Church, whose high distinction as an authority in canon law is brilliantly matched by the high ofHces he has held* in the Vatican, including the Congre-"^ gation of the Holy Office, the Congre­gation of Extraordinary' Ecclesiastical Affairs, and the Secretariat of State. In welcoming him to Notre Dame, we laud him for his great achievement in the compilation of the public law of the Ciiurch; and we praise him for his unremitting care in maintaining the order and discipline of the Church, theii* Universal Kingdom. At this special ritual of the graduating seniors, their traditional last visit to the University Church of the Sacred Heart, we gladly honor him as a renowned protector of God's word in a Societj' generally alienated from God." 
Cardinal Konig became a Prince of the Church last December, having suc­ceeded Cardinal Innitzer as Arch-j^ bishop of Vienna in May, 1956. A'-^ native of Rabenstein in lower Austria, the 53-year-old prelate is an outstand­ing Biblical scholar and an exceptional linguist with a command of most European languages including Russian. During AVorld War II he ser\'ed as chaplain to University of Vienna stu­dents. With the end of hostilities he became lector in Biblical studies at the University of Vienna and later was ' appointed to the chair of moral the­ology at the Salzburg Theological Facult)'. He was elevated to the hier­archy and made Coadjutor Bishop of his native diocese of Sankt Poelten on June 3, 1952. He was ordained in Rome on October 27, 1933. 
John A. McCone was sworn in as chairman of the U. S. Atomic Energ)'<8 Commission on July 14, 1958. During 1950-51 he had ser\'ed as Under Sec­retary of the Air Force in charge of new aircraft procurement and the con­struction of air bases throughout the worid. A native of San Francisco, Mc­Cone is a 1922 engineering graduate of the University of California. Before assuming his present duties, he was president of the Joshua Hendy Corp..f% Los Angeles, which operates tankers iri^"" world trade and cargo ships in the Pacific. 
Irish Drill 73 Candidates For 1959 Football Season 
ONLY ELEVEN VETERANS REPORT 
Seventy-three candidates were in­vited back for the start of practice pre­parations for the 71st football season of the University, according to Head 
^Football Coach Joe Kuharich. 
AVorkouts began on Tuesday, Sept. 1, with Monday, Aug. 31, having been set aside for picture day purposes. 
Only 11 monogram winners from last year's team have returned, the smallest number returning from one year to the next since AVorld War II. Among the losses from last year have been three of the first four ends, the 
fcfirst five tackles, three of the first four guards, and the first three fullbacks. 
Captain Ken Adamson, senior right guard from Colorado Springs, Colo., is one of the 11 monogram returnees. He jjlayed behind AU-American Al Ecuyer, a year ago. The other 1958 returning monogi-am men are: Bob Scholtz,senior center, Tulsa, Okla.; Monty Stickles, senior end, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.; Al 
kSabal, senior guard, Chicago, III.; Myron Pottios, junior guard, Van-Voorhis, Pa.: George Izo, senior quar­
1959 Notre Dame Football Schedule 
Sept. 26—North Carolina at I Notre Dame 
Oct. 3—Purdue at Lafayette Oct. 10—U. of California at Berkeley Oct. 17—Michigan State at East Lansing Oct. 24—Northwestern at 
Notre Dame Oct. 31—Navy at Notre Dame Nov. 7—Georgia Tech at 
Notre Dame 
I Nov. 14—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Nov. 21—Iowa at Iowa City Nov. 28—So. California at 
Notre Dame 
terback, Barberton, Ohio; Don White, senior quarterback, Haverhill, Mass.; Jim Crotty, senior halfback, Seattle, Wash.; Bill (Red) Mack, junior half­back, Allison Park, Pa.; Bob Scarpitto, junior halfback, Rahway, N. J., and Pat Doyle, senior fullback, Sioux City, la. (Note: Doyle made his monogram as a halfback last year, and Pottios his as a center.) Also returning will be Dick Ciesielski, senior tackle from South Bend, and Jim Colosimo, senior end from Eveleth, Minn. Ciesielski made a monogram as a soph in 1956, was out of school in 1957, returned last year but did not see any action. Colo­simo won a monogram in 1957, as a 
DRAKE RELAYS 50-YEAR HISTORY PUBLISHED 
On the golden jubilee of the cele­brated track event Drake University has published "The Drake Relays— 50 Golden Years," a picture history packed with statistics of the classic. Pictures and records of Irish stars Jack Elder, Alex Wilson, Greg Rick, Bernie Altard, etc., are included. The book can be ordered from Drake University, Des Moines, Iowa, for $2.00 plus 23 cents for mailing. 
junior, was not in school last season. 
The breakdown on the squad re­turning shows 12 ends, 13 tackles, 14 guards, seven centers, seven quarter­backs, 13 halfbacks and seven full­backs. Of the total of 73, there will be only 18 seniors and 20 juniors, which indicates the heavy dependency there will be on the 35 sophomores. 
Coach Joe Kuharich has stated: "We are aware that there is no substitute for experience, but circumstances are going to force us to rely greatly on the sophomores." 
Kuharich indicated there would be two sessions a day for about two weeks. The first game \vill be on Sept. 26, at home, against the University of North Carolina. 

Notice for Fall Visitors: 
Football Moves to Rockne Memorial 
This is just a reminder to the alumni that the football department offices are now located in the Rockne Memorial. Coach Joe Kuharich and his staff completed the move from their old offices in Breen-PhilHps Hall during the summer. 
Alumni visiting the campus during the fall season are more than welcome to drop in on an inspection tour of the new offices. 
Also, on a home football game, the Rockne Memorial Lounge will be open as a meeting place for friends and parents of football players. 
In the past there really was no place for the players to meet with their parents and friends and a great deal of confusion resulted in and aroimd the dressing room doors. Now, however, the players are expected to take full advantage of the Rockne Loiuige and make arrangements to meet their friends and parents there. 
As far as the dressing room itself is concerned, no one will be admitted prior to or after a home football game except the players, members of 
the coachingassignments.   staff  and  University personnelSincerely,   carrying  out  working  
DAVI D D. SLATTERY, '48 Executive Assistant to the Head  Coach  

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 159 23 
Varsity Alphabetical Roster 
(AS  OF  AUGUST  13. 1939)  
NO.  .X.-VME  POSL  AGE  HT.  WT.  HOME TOWN  HIGH SCHOOL  CLASS  
67  ••.•\damson,  Kenacth  „  G  21  6-2  205  Colorado Springs,  Colo.  -Marut,  Athnta  (Ga.)  
87  .Augustine,  Charles  ..  E  19  6-3  205  San Rafael, CaUf.  -Marin  
83 71  Baer, Michael Bill, Rohert  E T  19 18  6-2 6-2  200 220  Dunkirk, New York Garden City, N.Y.  -Cardinal Mindszenty -Garden City  -Jr.  
9 BonoGgUo, Thomas _ 54 Boyle, Richard . 64 Buoniconti, Nicholas 73 CaroUo, Joseph 77 *Ciesielski, Richard _ 25 Clark, WUiam ____ 57 Clements, ^ViUiam _ 41 *Colosimo, James 24 **Crott5% James 33 Dahiero, Angela _ _ 20 DeLuca, Raymond „ 39 Div-is, Greg 32 ••Doyle, Palrict 72 Flor, 01i\'cr 88 Ford, William 13 Gardocki, Thomas 92 Gaigiulo, Frank — — 66 Giadnto, Michael 48 Gray, Gerry 46 Grifhih, Daniel 4 HafTner, George . 30 Healy, Patrick 53 Hecomo\^ch, Thomas 83 Heenan, Patrick 2 Henneghan, ^VlUiam .. 70 Hinds, Robert 22 Hoch, Michael 43 Kubbuch, John 50 ••Kurd, Darid 3 **I20, George 1 Joriing, Thomas 28 Kane, James ,.,. 68 Korecfc, Robert 20 Liggio, Thomas 74 Lodish, Michael 62 Loula, James 23 •Mack, William 84 Mikadch, James 63 Muehlbauer, Michael 45 Xaab, Richard _„___. 86 Nebel, Edward 40 Nicolazzi, Robert 69 Nissi, Paul „18 O'Leary, Richard .. 38 Perkow-ski, Joseph 61 Pielrzak, Robert ~~ 34 Poeschl, Paul 75 •Pottios, Myron 56 Powers, John __-_, 35 Ratkowski, Ray „ „ 21 Rini, Thomas 44 59 Romanou-ski, Ted 60 Roth, Richard 63 Roy, Norbcrt 37 ••Sahal, Albin 55 •Scarpitto, Bob ••Scholtz. Bob 7 Schuiz, Clay 35 Sefdk, George SO ••Stickles, Monty _ 81 Traver, Leslie 52 Viola, Gene 6 ••White, Don 82 Wllkt, Henry 78 ^rake, Roger . 76 Williams, George 58 Zmarzly, Ted  QB C G T T KB C E HB-FB KB KB G HB T E T FB G FB FB QB HB C E QB T HB G C QB QB G T E E G HB E G FB E T G HB FB G FB G C HB HB T T G G HB C • QB-E HB E E C QB E T T G  19 20 19 19 22 20 18 19 20 18 21 21 19 19 20 19 18 20 18 23 19 22 20 19 21 20 21 21 19 20 20 19 21 19 22 18 21 18 20 20 19 20 19 20 19 20 21 21 21 19 21 20 21 19 19 21 19 19 21 21 19 19 19  6-0 6-1 5-11 6-2 5-11 5-11 6-4 6-1 5-10 5-8 6-0 5-10 6-0 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-0 6-1 6-2 5-10 S-O 6-1 6-3 6-2 6-2 6-0 6-2 5-11 6-2 6-2 6-1 5-6 6-2 5-11 6-0 6-0 6-0 6-2 5-10 6-0 6-3 6-2 6-0 6-0 6-0 5-3 5-11 6-2 6-2 6-1 5-9 6-3 6-5 5-10 5-11 5-11 6-2 6-1 5-8 6-4 5-2 6-1 5-11 6-0 6-1 6-2 5-10  190 200 210 230 210 180 220 195 185 165 180 220 180 200 200 200 190 215 195 185 ISO 210 205 190 190 213 180 185 215 210 200 175 210 195 210 195 175 205 200 190 195 215 205 180 200 215 195 215 215 185 185 240 225 195 210 180 225 190 170 225 190 215 190 193 230 220 215  Kenosha, \Visc —. Chicago, 111. Springfield, Mass. Wyandotte, Mich. South Bend, Ind. Youngstown, O. Philadelphia, Pa. Eveleth, Minn. Seattle, Wash. Donora, Penn." Pueblo, Colo. St. Louis, Mo. Sioux City, Iowa Seattle, Wash. Benton Harbor, Mich. . Wyandotte, Mich. North Bergen, N. J. -Bajside, N. Y. Baltimore, Md. Ri»-er Forest, lU. Chicago, m . Balumore, Md. Bo%*ey, Alinn. Detroit, Mich. Detroit, Mich. Gindnnad, O. ^ Richmond, Ind. Louisville, Ky. Three Ri\-ers, Mich. _ Barberton, O. Cindnnati, O. Bloomington, HI. Philaddphia, Pa. W. New York, N. J. _ Detroit, Mich. Rock Island, HI. Allison Park, Pa. Sacramento, Calif. _ Buffalo, N. Y. Rock Island, HI. Mt. Clemens, Mich. . Kenosha, Wise Ha\*erhill, Alass. Terre Haute, Ind. _ Wakes-Barre, Pa. Hamtramck, &Gch. Oshkosh, »Visc _ Van Voorhis, Pa. . Harvard, 111. Ridgeirood, N.Y. _ Clevdand, O. Albany, N.Y. Toledo, O. . Baton Rouge, La. . Chicago, in. Rahway, N. J. Tulsa, Okla. SchoEeld, Wise. Clevdand, O. Poughkeepsie, N.Y. . Toledo, Ohio Scranton, Pa. — Haverhill, Mass. Hamilton, Ohio . Hamilton, Ohio -Maishfidd, Mass. Cleveland, Ohio ­
 -Mary D. Bradford . -Leo -Jr­-Cathedral -Roose\-dt -St. Joseph _Sr. -East -Jr. -LaSalle -E%deth _Sr. -International Falls, Minn. -Donora High -Pueblo Catholic -So . -St. ifary-s -Heelan ——, -Seatde Prep. _Sr. -St. John -St. Mary's (Orchard Lake) -Jr. -St. Joseph (W. New York, N.J.) Jr . -St. Frauds Prep . So. -Calvert Hall So. -Femvick -Jr. -Mt. Carmd -Loyohi -Jr . -Greenway, Coleraine -So. -University of Detroit H.S. _Sr. -D e LaSalle -Jr. -So. -Richmond -St. XaWer -Three Rix-eis . -Sr. -Barberton -Sr. -Xavier -Holy Trinity -Jr. _N. E. Catholic . -Jr. -St. Joseph -University of Detroit H.S. -Sr. -AUeman -Hampton Township . -Jr. -Bishop Armstrong ­. -So. -Canisius -AHeman -St. Mary's -Sr. -Xfary D. Bradford -Hax-erhill -Jr. -Schulte -Jr. -Coughlin ————— — -So. -Central Catholic (Detroit) -Jr. -Oshkosh -So. -Charleroi -Jr. -Campion (Wis.) -St . Francis (Bklyn., N.Y.) -Jr. -Benedictine , , -Sr. -Schuyler -Jr. _Mt. Carmd Seminary. -Jr. -Istrouma . -Mendel Cath. —Sr. -Rahway -Jr . -Marquette —Sr. -D . C. Everest -So . -Benedictine -^o . -Poughkeepsie —Sr. -Alliance (Ohio) — —So. -Scranton Central . -So. -Haverhni . -Sr. -Hamilton C^th. Sr. -Hamilton Cath. . -.-So . .Arch. Waiiams . --So . - Benedictine So.  

* Denotes ^{onogiams Won 

24 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Notre Dame's All-Amerieaiis 
WALTER CAMP'S SELECTIONS 1903: Louis Salmon (fullbaclc) 3rd team 1909: M. Hairy Miller (hallback) 3rd team 1913: Ray Eidienlaub (lullbacV) 2nd team 1916: Charles Bachman (suard) 2ild team 1917: Frank Rydie%vski (center) 2nd team 1920: Georse Gipp (fullback) 1st team 1921: Roger Kiley (end) 2nd team 
John Mohardt (fullback) 2nd team 1922: Paul Castner (fullback) 3rd team 1923: Harvey Brown (guard) 2nd team 
1924: Hairy Stuhldrcher (quarterback) 1st team James Crowley (halfback) 2nd team Adam Walsh (center) 3rd team Elmer Layden (fullback) 3rd team 
OTHER SELECTIONS 
(Sec key to abbrenations at end) 
1913: Gus Dorals (back) INS 
1916: Stan Cofall (hallback) INS 
1917: Frank Rydzewski (center), INS, NEA 
1920: Roger Kiley (end) INS 
I92I: Eddie Anderson (end) (Football AVorld) 
1923:: Don Miller (halfback) INS, 1st team; Chicago Tribune, 1st team 
1924 : Elmer Layden (fullback) B 1st team; INS 3rd team James Crowley, (halfback) B 1st team; INS 2nd team 
Harry Stuhldrcher (quarterback) 1st team B and INS 
Arthur Boeringer (center) R, AP, INS NEA 
1927: John Snuth (guard) R, B, AP, UP, INS, NEA Christy Flanagan (hallback) UP, NEA 
192B: Fred Miller (tackle) INS 
1929: Frank Carideo (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, INS, NEA Jack Cannon (guard) R, B, AP, UP, INS, NEA 
1930: Frank Carideo (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, mS, NEA Marchy Schivartz (halfback) AP, UP, mS, NEA Iklarty Brill (halfback) B Bert Metigcr (guard) AP, UP 
1931: Marchy Schwartz (halfback) R, B, VP, INS, NEA Tommy Yarr (center) B, AP, INS Nordy Hoffman (guard) AP 
Joe Kurth (tackle) UP, NEA 1932: Joe Kurth (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS, 
P. NEA George Melinkovich (fullback) NANA 
1934: Jack Robinson (center) B, INS 
1935: Wayne Millncr (end) B, UP, INS, P Bm Shakespeare (halfback) B, INS 
1936: John Laater (guard) UP 
1937: Joe Beinor (tackle) B, NEA Chuck Sweeney (end) AP, UP, INS 
1938: Joe Beinor (tackle) B, R, AP, INS, NEA Earl Bro\vn (end) B, P 
1939: William (Bud) Kerr (end) B, AP, NEA 
1941: Bob Dove (end) B, UP, INS Bemie Crimmins (guard) R, P 
1942: Bob Dove (end) B, INS, NEA 
1943: Jim ^Vhite (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS Angelo Bertellil (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, INS, P 
Crcighton Xrdler (hallback) R, B, UP, INS. P John Yonakor (end) B, UP, INS 
Pat Fillcy (guard) R, UP 
1945: John Mastrangelo (guard) INS 
1946: John Mastrangelo (guard) R, INS George Connors (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS, FC, P, NEA John Luiack (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP. NEA, INS, FC, FW George Strohmeycr (center) INS, n V 
1947: John LuJackS (quarteiback) Unanimous Bill Fischer (mmrd) AP, UP, FIV. NEA 1st team; INS 2nd team; FC 3rd team G»rge Connor (tackle) UP. FC, B 1st team; AP 3rd team 
TASsy Czarobski (tackle) INS 1st team; AP 2nd team; FC 3rd team; NEA 1st team 
Leon Hart (end) FW 
1948: Bai Fischcr-l (guard) AP, UP. INS, B Leon Hart (end) UP, INS, B, FW-R, P, NEA 1st team; AP 3rd team Emn Sitko (halfback) F\V-R Ist team; AP, UP 2nd team 
Itarty Wendell (guaid) FC 1st team; F\V-R 2nd team 
1949: Leon HartS (end) B, FC, FSV-R, AP, UP, INS, P Ema Sitko (halfback) FC, FW-R, AP, UP, INS. P Jim Martin (tackle) AP, INS 1st team; FSV-R, UP 2nd team Bob WdUams (quarterback) AP, UP, FW-R 
1950: Jerome Groom (center) UP, NEA, P. Bob WilUams (quarterback) AP, UP, 
FW-R. 
1951: Robert Toneff (tackle) AP 1st team; UP 2nd team James Mutscheller (end) UP 2nd team 
1952: John Lattner6 (hallback) Unanimous 

1953: John LattneiT (halfback) Unanimous Don Penza (end) Nor York Daily Newi Nol Woiden (fallback) NBC Televidon Jim Schrader (center) NBC Televinoa Menil Mavxaidn (guard) Paiamotmt News Art Hunter (tackle) FW-R, INS, Morfe­tone News, AP 2nd team, F 2iid team 
1954: Ralph Guglielm? (quarteiback) Uiom­mous 
Frank Varrichione (tackle) The Sporting
Ncivs, Central Press, 1st team; INS, UP, 
2nd team; AP, 3rd team 

1955: Don Schaefer (fullback) FIV, INS. Col-
lien 1st team. 
Paul Homung (cruarteiback) UP, FW. 
Sporting News, New York Daily News 
1st team. 
pat Bisceglia (guard) AP, NBC Tele­
vision 1st team; UP 3rd team. 

1956: Paul Hornuni;9 (quarterback) UP. Sport­ing New3, FW 1st team; AP, NEA, INS 2nd team. 
1957: Al Ecuj-er (guard) UP, INS, Sporting News, 1st team; AP 2nd team. Nick Pietrosanle (fullback) NBC Tele­vision 1st team; UP, Sporting News 3rd team. 
1958: Al Ecuyer (guard) UP, Sporting Ncw3, P, College Sports Editors 1st team. 
Monty Stickles (end) NBC Tcle\"ision, Sporting News, P. Fox-Movietone New^, College Sports Editors Ist team; UP, AP 2nd team. 
Nick Pietrosanle (fullback) FC, nV-R, NBC Television, Fox-Movietone Ne\w In team; Sporting News, College Sports Edi­tors 2nd team; UP, AP 3rd team. 
KEY 

AP—^Associated Pr«ss 
UP—United Press 
INS—International News Service 
B—AU-American Board 
FW—FootbaU Writers 
FC—Football Coaches 
R—Grantland Rice 
FW-R—Football Writers and Grantland Rice 
combined thdr choices for LOOK Magazine starting in 1948 

P—All-Players Team 
NEA—Neivspaper Enterprise Association 
NANA—^North American Newspaper Alliance 
1 Recaved the Hdsman Trophy as "Outstand­ing Player of 1943" 2 Received the Outland Trophy as *'C>utstand­ing Lineman of 1916" 3 Received the Heisman Trophy as "Outstand­ing Player of 1947" 4 Received the Outland Trophy as "Outstand­ing Linrman of 1948" 5 Received the Heisman Trophy as "Outstand­ing Player of 1949" 6 Received the Robert W. Maxwell Trophy as "Outstanding College Player ot 1952" 
7 Received both the Maxwell Trophy and the Heisman Award as ''Outstanding College Player of 1953" 
8 Received the Walter Camp Trophy as the "Outstanding College FootbaU Back of 1954." 9 Recei\-ed the Heisman Trophy as "Outstanding College Player of 1956." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 25 
Q 

TEAM KICKOFFS RETURNED PUNTING 
Notre Dame Oppo7ients Player No. Yds. TD Player No. Yds. Avg.
206 Points Scored 173 Crotty 9 228 0 Odyniec 3 130 43.3 194 First Downs 141 Mack 5 94 0 Scarpitto 8 273 34.1 120 by Rushing 85 Williams 4 55 0 Pietrosante 26 877 33.7 
66 by Passing 61 Izo 3 39 0 Reynolds 1 15 15.0 s 8 Rini ,. .. 1 24 0 Williams 1 10 10.0 
by Penalties 6 2136 Yards Rushing 1441 
Reynolds 1 22 0 Doyle „.. 2 21 0512 Times Carried 434 

Just 1 19 0 PUNTS RETURNED 
4.2 Yards-per-try 3.3 
Pietrosante 1 17 0 
Player No. Yds. Avg.

1561 Yards Passing 1217 
Scarpitto 2 16 0 
Scarpitto 4 142 35.5 

198 Passes Attempted 183 
Stickles .... 1 5 0 
Mack 3 103 34.3 

93 Passes Completed 85 Crotty 5 64 12.8 
.470 Completion Percentage. 464 Doyle _ 7 64 
RUSHING 

18 „ Passes Intercepted by 22 
White 2 22 11.0 119 Yards Int. Returned 185 
Player T€. Yds. Avg. 
Rini 1 6 6.0 
Pietrosante 117 556 4.8 

3697 TOTAL OFFENSE . 2658 Odyniec 1 4 4.0 
Mack 71 429 6.0 

39 .. Punts 52 
Crotty 67 315 4.7 

1305 Total Yards 2026 
Odyniec 58 273 4.7 DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 
33.5 Average 39.0 
Scarpitto 28 149 5.3 

405 Yards Punts Returned 85 Tackles 
Williams 44 140 3.2 

39 Fumbles 34 Ecuyer 78; Adamson 53; Scholtz 
Toth . 32 111 3.5 
51; Mack 48; Pietrosante 44; Law­23 Ball Lost 13 

Just 15 88 5.9 
rence 43; Geremia 39; Crotty, We—~ 
Doyle 28 74 2.6 
toska, and Hurd 38; Royer and * 
Reynolds 7 32 4.6 
Shulsen 36; Pottios. 32; Odyniec 
PASSES CAUGHT 
Rini 4 17 4.3 

and Stickles 31; Puntillo and Sa-Player Niimber Yards TD White 17 17 1.0 bal 28; Schaaf 26; Williams and Stickles _ 20 328 7 Dugan _._ 2 4 2.0" Scibelli 23; Izo and Myers 21; 
Mack 8 
227 1 Selcer 1 2 2.0 Toth 18; Scai-pitto 12; Reynolds, Wetoska 12 210 1 Izo 21 -59 -2.8 
Doyle, and NagursM 11; Dugan 9; White and Just 8; Rini 7; Loop Myers 9 177 1 and Pietrzak 4; Burke 3; Lodisb Scarpitto 6 155 1 

PASS INTERCEPTIONS and Sluehlbauer 1. 
Crotty 13 137 0 
Player No. Yds. TD

Royer „ 7 122 1 
Just 1 30 0 Passes Broken Up 
Pietrosante _ 10 78 0 Hurd 2 18 Crotty 4; Williams, Mack, Doyle, Odyniec 3 49 0 Wetoska 1 17 and Pietrosante 3; Stickles, Scar­Doyle 2 47 1 Ecuyer .. 2 16 pitto, and Hurd 2; Just, Burke, Toth — 3 16 0 White, Lawrence, Toth, Wetoska, 
White . 1 12 

Wilke 1 15 0 Schaaf, Odyniec, Rini, and Sabal 1. 
Izo .. 4 11 Scholtz 1 8 
Opponents Fumbles Recovered 
Royer . 1 6 
SCORING 

Williams 3 1 Stickles, Hurd and Lawrence 2; ^ Player TD PAT SAF. FG Pts. Pottios 1 . 0 Izo, Pottios, Crotty, Nagurski,'* Stickles 7 15 0 1 60 Crotty 1 0 Scholtz, Odyniec and Ecuyer 1. Mack 6 0 0 0 36 Pieti-osante 4 1 (P^O 0 0 26 Izo 4 0 0 0 24 
PASSING 
Williams 4 0 0 0 24 Doyle 1 0 0 0 6 Player Att. Comp. Had Int. Yds. TD Pet. Royer 10 0 0 6 Izo 118 60 11 1067 9 .508 Myers 1 0 " , " ^ Williams _ 65 26 9 344 4 .400 Scarpitto 1 0 0 0 6 White 10 4 2 82 0 .400 Wetoska 10 0 0 6 Dugan 3 2 0 36 0 .6661^ Crotty 0 1 (pass) 0 0 2 Pietrosante 1 1 1 0 32 0 1.000 Team 0 0 2 0 4 Mack 1 0 0 0 0 .000 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Mt | Teams Win i , lose it, Tie 1 
ND 16 Indiana Tech .... 11 ND 13 Air Force .'^cad... 14 ND 19 Iowa 8 ND 24 Indiana 3 ND 20 Chicago 7 ND 14 Wayne State 13 ND 20 Mich. State 7 ND 19 Ohio State 8 ND 16 Wisconsin 11 ND 13 Illinois 14 
N.C.A.A. Tournament: Notre Dame finished eighth 
TENNIS 
Won 14, Lost 0 
ND 9 Toledo 0 ND 9 Western Micb. 0 ND 9 Indiana 0 ND 8 Iowa 1 ND 9 Kalamazoo 0 ND 5 Michigan 4 ND 8 Mich. State 1 ND 9 Kalamazoo 0 ND 9 Purdue 0 ND 8 Wisconsin 1 ND 9 Northwestern 0 ND 9 Southern 111 0 ND 9 Detroit 0 ND 9 Marquette 0 
Ohio State University 
Quadrangular Tourney: 
Notre Dame 34 
Ohio State 25 
Denison 16 
Ohio Wesleyan 15 
N.C.A.A. Tournament: Notre Dame tied for first with Tulane with 8 points apiece. 
GOLF 
Won 12, Lost 5 
ND 1154 Bellannine .„ ' 6/j ND 13 Kentucky 5 ND 14 Center Col 4 ND 19 Detroit 17 ND 21/2 Northern Ill._ I4/2 ND 21 Northwestern 15 ND 16 Mich. State.... 20 ND 17 Wisconsin 19 ND 22 Io\va 14 ND 15 Mich. State _ 39 ND 19 Western 111 17 ND 30 Tri-State Col. 6 ND 21/= Wisconsin 14/s ND 20/2 Iowa ISyi ND 23/2 Minnesota „ 12J/4 ND 10/2 Indiana 25/­ND 14 Purdue 22 
Indiana Intercollegiate 
Tourney: 

Indiana 751 
Purdue 754 
Notre Dame 783 
BASEBALL 
Won 22, Lost 7 
ND 9 E\'ans\-ille 2 ND 2 Mississippi 3 ND 14 Illinois Wesle>'an.. 1 Mile Relay — Notre Dame, 
ND  11 Quincy  7  Indoors  
ND  6  Memphis  State  ..  1  JJD 84  Marquette  ....  20  
ND  12 Arkansas State _.. 5  N D 59J4  Purdue  44^4  
ND  7  Indiana  5  Michigan  State  Relays: Dis­ 
^^ND  o T^u-'^'^ I13" wabashzzz::: i 8 Wisconsin 2  tance Medley—Notre Dame, --f (^^'"•' ^-''^'  '^='"''=y' Gregory).  
ND  7  Wisconsin  ;  5  I.C-A.A.A.A.  Meet:  One Mile  
ND  8  Northwestern  5  —Ron Gregory, second; Two  
ND  9  Central Mich. _..  3  Miles — Dave Cotton, fifth;  
ND  5  Central Mich. ....  3  Pole Vault — Tom Reichert,  
ND  21  Michigan  0  tied for fifth.  
ND  5  Kent State  11  C.C.C. Meet:  Western  Michi- 
ND  8  Kent State  2  gan 79?4; Notre Dame, 5054;  
ND  3  Michigan State..„  1  Central  Michigan,  25 ?4;  
ND  4  Glenview NJ\.S. _  2  Marquette,  24; Drake, 15;  
ND  4  Michigan State....  5  Detroit,  10}4; Loyola,  7;  
ND  9  Michigan  ...  8  Wheaton, 3}4.  
ND  0  Western Mich  3  .,. ,  .  D 1  i- i n  
ND  9  Valparaiso  5  *"*?'* "  **'="^=  Two-MDe  
ND  8  Glenview NJ\.S. _  1  Relay-Notre Dame, second.  
ND  10 'Detroit  0  Chicago Relays: One-Mile Re- 
ND  12 'Minnesota  4  lay — Notre  Dame,  third  
ND  0 •Western Mich  2  . (Hemphill,  Brcitenbach,  
ND  6 nVestem Mich..._  9  Reilly,  Fitzpatricfc); Two- 

* Denotes N.C..A.A. Tourney fourth (Rorke, Clynes, Mon-Games ahan, Gregory). . , 
Cleveland K of G Relays: Two-SWIMMING Mile Relay — Notre Dame. Won 5, Lost 5, Tied 1 fourth (Rorke, Cawley. Mon­
ahan, Gregory); 50 yd. High ND 43 Chicago 43 Hurdles — Ste\-e Dombach, ND 31 Detroit Tech 55 fourth. ND 32 North Central -.. 54 ND 38 Ohio 48 ^ . ND 32 Bowling Green St. 54 uutaoors 
ND 48 Western Mich. _ 38 j ^ gO/i Army 59J4 ND 60 Riviera Club of j^jy 55 Missouri 75 
Indianapolis 25 N D 74 Mich. State— 57 ND 66 St Louis 19 ND 53 Loyola 31 ^"^ ^^T/^' Two-MJc Relay 
ND 59 Central Mich. .-. 27 ~'^?'"= ^P"""' »V"°x."^ ND 31 North Central _.. 55 (Rorke, C^mes, Monahan, Gregory). Distance Medley —^Notre Dame, third, (Mon-TRACK ahan, Rorke, Cawley, Gre-
Won 6, Lost 1 ^ f.""^^' ^ ,, ^T 
Indiana State Meet: Notre (dual meets only, including Dame, 93; Indiana, 83; Pur­cross-country) due, 54; Wabash, 26; Butler, Cross-Country 21. 
ND 20 Marquette 40 C.C.C. Meet: Kansas Univer-ND 26 Indiana 30 jj^y^ 93; Notre Dame, 36/j; Six-Team Meet: Western Mich- Ohio, 25. 
^^k^^SS-TcnFj^ilc^C Ohio State Rdays: Distance gan 116; Bowling Green 119; ^f^'^''^—^"^^ Dame, first; Loyola 121. Two-Mile Relay — Notre ~. T, \i . AT- I,- Dame, third; Half-Mile Re­Thrce-Team Meet: Michigan , XT • T^ cr 1. State, 21; Notre Dame, 37; '^V — Notre Dame, fifth; Wisconsin, 82. S™"" J"™P—J"'Y Fitzpa-Indiana State Meet: Notre n-'i'^'^^"°'^f J.T"-^'™^" 
Dame and Indiana tied for °"='= Monjeau, fifth. 
1st place wth 36 points each. Dralie Relays: Two-Mile Relay 
C.C.C. Meet: Notre Dame 2nd —Notre Dame, tKrd (Rorke, 
I.C.A.A.A.A. Meet: '^'V""' Monahan, Gregory). Notre Dame 2nd N.C-A^. Meet: Gregory and 
N.CAji. Meet: Morando competed but failed Notre Dame 5th to place. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 27 
ND ND ND ND 

•>ID ND ND ND ND ND 
ND 
^^fD 
^^D ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND 0^ ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND ND 
0 
FOOTBALL 
Won 6, Lost 4 
 18 Indiana
 14 So. Methodist
 2 .•\miy
 9 Duke 22 Purdue 40 Navy 26 Pittsburgh 34 No. Carolina 21 lo^va 20 So. California 
BASKETBALL 
Won 12, Lost 13 
 87 Bellarminc 63 Northwestern 54 Wisconsin 
0  .... 6  14 7  29  20  29  24  31 
 .... 13 
 55  68  56 
 56 Michigan State.... 74  77 North Carolina.... 81 
 61  Northwestern  53  
 73  Indiana  67  
 59  Purdue  74  

 67 Northwestern .... 102  54 North Carolina.._ 69 
 60 BuUer 73 Detroit 66 DePaul 88 Loyola 85 Illinois 71 Xavier
 72 St. Johns
 76 Canisius 76 Army 52 Kentucky 89 Butler 76 DePaul 79 Marquette 93 Valparaiso 51 Marquette
 >VRESTLING 
Won 5, Lost 5 
 62  62  69  61  75  73  70  59  60  71  92  67  95  65  35 

AVheaton Invitational Tourney: Jerry Sachsel, 1st, 117 lbs. Four I Tourney at Case Tech: 
Bucfcy O'Conner, 3rd, 
177 lbs. 
11 111. U. (Chgo.).... 18 13 Findlay 15 20 Wayne State 18 13 Western Mich 16 19 U. of Chicago .... 15 11 Northwestern 19 21 Cincinnati 11 19 Miami (Ohio) -. 11 18 Marquette 8 9 Wheaton 17 

ND ^D ^'D 
ND ND  20 West Rescr\'e .... 7  16 Buffalo 11 
FENCING  
Won 13, Lost 2  
 19 Detroit  8  
 17  Case  10  
 16 Fenn  11  


J^otre 'Dame 
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A NUN-POET-SCHOLAR 

Sister Mar)' Madeleva, C.S.C., '18, My First Seventy Years (New York, The Macmillan Company. 1959). 172 pp. $3.50. 
One of Notre Dame's first and most distinguished woman gi-aduates. Sister Mar)' Madeleva, poet-president of St. Mar)''s College, has compressed her life stor)' into book form. 
Undertaking the task of writing her autobiography at the request of her publisher Sister Madeleva accepted tlie assignment as casually as she does ap­pointments witli scholars and public figures or her many requests to lecture. 
Celebrities Mentioned 

In two weeks she filled four notepads witli angular penciled handvmting, outlining her fabulous journey from a small ^Visconsin town to the big busi­ness of heading one of the oldest Cath­olic colleges for women in the United States. The book is made up of 30 chapters, witli such breez)- titles as "The Cat Is Black," "Varsit)', Varsity," "7,000 Boys and 1,000 Giris" and "I Enter O.xford." Incidents in her auto­biography embrace the worlds of the tlieater, letters and education. Names like Helen Hayes, Clare Boothe Luce, Irene Dunne and Marian Anderson are mentioned. 
50 Years in Congregation 

This year marks die dynamic nun's 50th year as a member of the Congre­gation of die Sisters of the Holy Cross and her 25th year as president of St. Mar)''s. 
Though her career has been devoted to the religious life of poverty, chastity and obedience. Sister Madeleva's stor)' is not the conventional "nun's story." It is also die stor)' of a poet, philoso­pher, educator and administrator whose advice and counsel has been sought by world-famous persons in politics, tlie theater and education. 
A dozen volumes of her poetry have 

28 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Mooks 

been published over tlie years. Her poems have also appeared in many na­tional magazines. Honored by a host of colleges and organizations \vith de­grees and citations, she returned to N. 
D. for an honorar)' doctorate in 1953. 
A copy of My First Seventy Years will be presented to His Holiness Pope John XXIII. The company prepared the special copy bound in white leadier with gold letterinsr. 
HOW-TO OF CHRISTIAN YOUTH GUIDANCE 

Vincent J. Giese, '50, Training for Leadership. (Chicago, Fides Publish­ers, 1959), 159 pp. $2.95. 
Here is a new book on youdi guid­ance by Vincent J. Giese, editorial di­rector of Fides and also audior of The Apostolic Itch and Patterns for Teen­agers. 
Combining principles for training lay leaders with his broad experiences widi young people in die Young Christian Workers, the Young Christian Students, and the Confratemit)' of Christian Doctrine, Giese has written a realistic handbook for anyone concerned with the training of youth for leadership. 
Special chapters are devoted to the role of the school, the parish, and die clerg)' in working witii youtii. The au­thor also discusses die apostolate of the CCD, professional and work life, and world responsibilit)'. One chapter is devoted to the elements of spirituality of lay leaders. 
Holding degrees from St. Joseph's College, Indiana, and Marquette beside his master's from Notre Dame, Giese is a member of the national lay commit­tee of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine. He represented the CCD at die II AVorld Congress of the lay apos­tolate in Rome, October, 1957. He also ser\'es on the board of adult education centers in the Archdiocese of Chicago and is an active member of St. Francis de Paula parish. 
Training for Leadership is illustrated with photographs. 
HISTORY OF REPUBLICAN INROADS IN SOUTH ,3 

Vincent P. DeSantis, Republicans Face the Southern Question — the New Departure Years, 1877-1897 (Balti­more, The Johns Hopkins Press, 1959), 283 pp. $5.00. 
Filling a gap in Southern history, this book is a study of the Republican party and the South after Reconstruction. It deals with the Republican efforts toA solve die Southern question that has both handicapped and scctionalized the part)' since its foiTnation in 1854. It is the stor)' of the attempts by the na­tional Republican leadership to estab­lish a Republican part)' in the South over the period of 1876-1896. Each Republican administration tried a dif­ferent strateg)', as it sought to build die party's strength in the old Confederacy, and these contrasts become clear in the * detailed account of the GOP's pursuit of a hitherto hopeless endeavor. 
Adds to Political Historj-

An associate professor in the histoiy department, Mr. De Santis came to Notre Dame from Johns Hopkins and is a specialist in Southern studies. 
The subject is one of growing im­portance and interest and it is an important addition to die meager lit-|j5 erature of American party histor)'. 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME |) 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­
ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving" Informing University of your cor­
poration's 'areas of interest' 
•) 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest 
Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME C* «j FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Of Importance to the Family 
(Continued from page 19) 

of cooperation within our Alumni wc are high? What are the chances of the average certain that the survey will succeed and will high school boy? Is it true that Notre Dame be of significant Iielp to all of us. wants only the genius of the classroom?" Recognizing that such a survey can at­These questions must be ansAvered with 
tain a real purpose, we also know that we fact, and speaking as one who has just con­can never replace the advantages to Notre sulted with Father Moran, the Director of Dame of personal contact with you, with Student Admissions, let me say this to you: ^class officers and with the various clubs. We Notre Dame seeks the well balanced stu­hope to make continued improvements in dent, not the young man who is scholar personal contact with Alumni so that all alone, or athlete alone, or whose record Alumni will feel their part in the close fam­shows an abundance of social activities only. ily relationship with Notre Dame — so that Being a student only is not enough, just as all Alumni will know more of the needs, the being an athlete only is not enough. Natur­problems, the good things, the mistakes, the ally everjone expects the best from Notre honors, the plans, and the future of Notre Dame in all her undertakings. Therefore, Dame. Notre Dame seeks the best and tries to pro­vide the best in her graduates. This does Admissions not mean, however, that all candidates must be straight A in high school. It means, One of the matters which is apparently rather, that to be admitted, a student must ^i n the minds of a great majority of .Alumni have proven his scholastic abilit>- and must (if we can judge from the many discussions have shown some recognizable leadership po­about it at the Universal Notre Dame Night tential. The best applicant is one who has gatherings) has to do with the present Uni­c^ibited successful interest in study, in versity policy on student admissions. We are play, in fun and in prayer — with an un­
all faced with questions about admissions derstanding of the relationship of one to the cither from our own family or from friends other. and associates. These questions say: 
Certainly the scholastic standards of ad­"Docs a candidate for admissions have to mission and of study have become more dif­be a straight A student? ficult to meet. Before any graduates — or Why are the standards so rigid and so faculty members — of any vintage, may 
Minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, June 11, 1959. 
Eegolution 
CHARLES E. ROHR, DECEASED 
WHEREAS, Charles E. Rohr, '30, a member of this Board 1958-1961, died in Cleveland, Ohio, on April 3, 1959, 
BE IT RESOLVED, that this Board express its grief and its condolences to his family. 
Charles Rohr was a Notre Dame man. He was jealous of the stature of Notre Dame and generous to everything that contributed to its increase. 
He was a man aggressive in his loyalties, to his Church, to his family, to his business, and to his University. 
In each of these areas of his devotion he cherished and advanced the traditions by his own participation, and contributed much to the concept of charity by his forgiving acceptance of so many who fell far short of his example. 
The Board concurs in the many tributes from friends in all walks of life who have expressed their sense of appreciation and loss. It brings its own tribute to a close with the knowledge that the spiritual strength and the intangible enrichment that flow from association with a man like Charles Rohr encounter far too soon the limitation of human expression. It is here that the great teachings which had motivated Charles Rohr's life bring their consolation to those who survive him — his reward and his recognition are happily in the hands of God. 
feel that the change in standards is a reflec­tion on them let me point out with a well worn expression that "times have changed." Who can deny that our social and business world is much more competitive than it was just a few years ago. Any college degree is not the key which will open all doors. And if Notre Dame is going to train men to be responsible Catholic leaders in this competi­tive world, she must begin with the best balanced charge of raw material and she must bear down hard on classroom standards so that facing the world will not be a fresh­man experience for the graduating senior. 
As Alumni we can make a ver>- real per­sonal contribution to Notre Dame by a good understanding of this policy. We can all help, just as so many hundreds of graduates are now helping, by advising, and counsel­ing, and screening with honest judgment those young men, including our own sons, who come to us with admission to Notre Dame in mind. We cannot do the job of the Admissions office but we can act as scouts and counselors. And to those of you who have been so helpful in this area in the past may I express the ^varrn apprecia­tion of the Alumni -Association as well as the University' for a most valuable service. 
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 
(Continued from page 18) 

ordinary- ability and great promise and we 
welcome him most ^varmly. 
Mr. John A. Buczkowski, '48L, has been 

appointed lecturer on law and will teach 
the course on Torts while Professor Wagner 
is on leave next year. Mr. Buczkowski re­
ceived an LL.M. from New York University 
in 1949. He is engaged in the active prac­
tice of law in South Bend. 
Dean O'Meara participated in a confer­ence on legal education held in June under the auspices of the Universit)- of Micliigan Law Schooh He took part in a national conference on "Law and The Layman," held in Miami in connection with the an­nual meeting of the American Bar Asso­ciation. 
SYMPOSIUM ISSUE 

The Notre Dame Lawyer will publish a S>Tnposium Issue. It will contain the papers read at the Symposium on the Prob­lems and Responsibilities of School De­segregation, held at the Notre Dame Law School last May. Also to be included is an extensive student analysis and discussion of the legal aspects of desegregation. This latter, it is believed, will fill a real need, as there is not now in existence any such comprehensive examination of the many legal problems involved in desegregation. 
Notre Dame_ Alumnus, September, 1959 -2? 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents^ 
ALABAMA 
S. Eugene Sullivan, '25, 1707 Wellington Rd., Birmingham 9, Ala. 
ARIZONA 
Phoenix—Dr. Dale H. Stannard, '45, 1319 

W. Missouri, Phoenbc, Arizona. Tucson—Ehner Besten, '27, Box 5714, Tucson, Arizona. ARKANSAS Fort Smilh — James A. Gilker, '48, 3715 Free Ferr>- Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 
Little Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestivood, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 

Cen/ra/—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secretary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Cal. Los Angeles—DoDicy L. Brady, '49, 310 S. Tyler Ave., El Monte, Calif. Northern—^Edward F. Mansfield, '34, 523 West Hillsdale, San Mateo, Calif. Orange County—Richard R. Murphy, '53, 12622 S.W. Ensamada, Tustin, Cal. San Diego—^Richard Derenthal, '51, 6345 ­49th St., San Diego, Cal. 
COLORADO 

Denver—Leon Archer, '29, 7440 W. 10th Ave., Lakewood 15, Colo. Southern Colorado—^A. Jack Thomas, '49, 3222 Rex St., Pueblo, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 

Connecticut Valley—^Louis A. Bergeron, '52, 90 Sylvan Ave., Meriden, Conn. 
Fairfield County — William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tidemill Terrace, Fairfield, Conn. AraagflfacJt—Alfred E. Sullivan, '52, 301 
Dorchester, Waterbury, Conn. New Haven—^Joseph Benoit, '50, Box 1670, New Haven 10, Conn. DELAWARE James J. Coleman, '46, 219 Oakwood Road, Wilmington, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Joseph L. Fitzmaurice, '36, 2-B Woodland Way, Greenbelt, Md. 
FLORIDA Central—Roy B. Laughlin, '48, 2061 Rock-ledge, Rockledge, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale^ohn L. Callan, '18, 433 
N.E.
 15th Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Greater Miami—Charles E. Maher, '35, 138 

N.E.
 92nd St., Miami Shores, Fla. North Florida—Tred H. Baumer, '22, 4731 Blackburn Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 


Palm Beach County—Timothy D. O'Hara, '54, 1st National Bank Bldg., Palm Beach, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—^Al W. Johannes, '26, 10102 Tarpon Dr., Treasure Island 6, Fla. 
GEORGIA Atlanta—^Kenneth Da\'js, '56, 3641 Ashford Dunwoody Rd., N.E., ApL 3, Atlanta, Georgia. 
HAWAH Walter Tagawa, '52, 917-A Hausten St, Honolulu, Hawaii. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
IDAHO 

James J. Carberry, '41, 8507 Vincent St., Boise, Idaho. Idaho Falls—James M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho 
ILLINOIS 

Aurora—Owen Kane, '38, Kane Ford, 230 Galen Blvd., Aurora, 111. Central Illinois—John C. Amheim, '51,2115 Cherry Rr., Springfield, 111. Chicago—Philip J. Faccenda, '52, 1510 Ogden Ave., LaGrange, 111. Decatur—Bernard A. Marty, '37, 201 Red­wood Lane, Decatur, 111. Eastern Illinois—Ernest F. Sedlmayr, '46, 611 Douglas Ave., Danville, 111. Fox Valley—GeoTge R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. Joliet—John Lux, Jr., '53, c/o Herald News, 78 Scott St., Joliet, 111. 
Kankakee Valley—Richard L. Clancy, '52, 
705 W. Broadway, Bradley, 111. 

La Salle County Club—John T. Clark, '49, 
726 Sherwood, Ottawa, Illinois. Peona—William S. Clark, '47, 2819 W. Susan Curve, Peoria, 111. Rockford—^Wm. H. Lichtenberger, '50, 1014 S. School Ave., Freeport, 111. Rock River Valley—Joseph L. Guccione, '40, 308 First Ave., Sterling, III. 
Southern Cook County—Angelo A. Ciam­
bronc, '57, 168 Hawthorne Lane, Chicago Heights, 111. 
INDIANA 

Calumet District — William J. O'Connor, '51, Galvin, Galvin and Leeney, 7th Floor Calumet Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—^William B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford City, Ind. £/iAar/—Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor. Elkhart, Ind. Enansville—Donald F. Haller, '43, 716 S. Villa, Evansville 14, Ind. Fort l^ayne—Paul O. Schirmeyer, '48, 904 
E. Washington Center Rd., Ft. Wayne, Ind. /nrfiana^io/is—Robert V. Welch, '50, 7834 Castle Lane, Indianapolis, Ind. Michigan Ciij'—-William J. Priebe, '53, 126 Boyd Circle, Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Valley—^Rudy Goepfrich, '26, 1109 N. Cleveland, South Bend 28, Ind. 
Terre Haute—^Druie Cavender, '46, 271 Monttrey, Terre Haute, Ind. 
Wabash Valley—James W. Glascr, '50, P.O. 
Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 

Bur/ing/ort—Roland J. Martel, '43, 2505 Surrey Rd., Burlington, Iowa. 
Cedar Rapids—Joseph C. Green, '51, 2922 
Mansfield Ave., S.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 

Des Moines—^Andrew T. McCormack, '50, 3908 Greenwood Dr., Des Moines 15, loiva. 
Dubuque—^Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. 
Sioux-Land—Raymond B. Duggan, '43, (Secretary), 3244 Jackson, Sioux City, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, 
E. Moline)—Dr. Robert J. Foley, '46, 2110 Brady St., Davenport, Iowa. 

KANSAS Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Salina — Thomas Kennedy, '51, 1900 Geb­hart, Salina, Kansas. .^ l»'i<;A:<a—Theodore P. Jochems, '40, 402 N.'J Roosevelt, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY Leo J.. Brown, Jr., '50, 3721 Willmar Ave., Louisville 5, Ky. 
LOUISIANA Ark-La-Tex—George J. Despot, '45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. New Orleans—James E. Smith, '50, 6414 Cartier Dr., New Orleans, La, 
MAINE •) Raymond A. Geiger, '32, c/o Geiger Bros., Lewiston, Me. 
MARYLAND 

Ba/«imor<—Francis Herb, '37, 16 Thomhill Rd., Lutherville, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS Boston—^William E. Daccy, Jr., '49, 16 Dar­rell Dr., Randolph, Mass. 
Pioneer Valley—ArihuT L. Demers, '35, 17 
Gillette Ave., Springfield, Mass. w) 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Creek—^Raymond R. Allen, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—^Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. 
Blue Water District—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearfeom—John J. Fish, Jr., '53, 14940 
Michigan Ave., Dearborn, Mich. Detroit—O. Don Herron, '34, 3900 E. Out­er Dr., Detroit 34, Mich. * Flint—^Arthur T. Paradis, '49, 3401 Briar­wood Dr., Flint 7, Mich. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg., Ironwood, Michigan. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan— 
John T. Mulvihill, '53, 21 Manchester, S.W., Grand Rapids, Mich. Hiawathaland—Thomas J. Bergan, '55, 
P. O. Box 392, Marinette, Wis. ^ Jackson—Carl F. Bachle, Jr., '52, 141 * Larry's Drive, Jackson, Mich. i Kalamazoo—Victor M. Kimmel, Jr., '44, c/o Paw Paw Canning Co., Paw Paw, Mich. Lansing—Clement E. McFarlane, '38, 1638 Wellington Rd., Lansing, Michigan. Monroe—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. Front St., Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon—John M. Bierbusse, '54, 4029 Stamford Dr., Muskegon Heights, Mich. 
Saginaw Valley—George Ward, '40, 20Ji 
Park, Bay City, Mich. ^ Top of Michigan—^Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA Duluth-SuperioT—James P. Keough (trcas­^ urer), 2705 East Fifth St, Duluth, Minn. Twin Cities—]ames C. Rogers, '53, 1350 Delaware, St. Paul 7, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI William P. Condon, '39 (vice-pres.), 601 Washington, Greenville, Miss. 

MISSOURI Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—^John T. Massman, '56, 1261 West 56th St., Kansas City, Mo. St. Louis—J. Donald Ratchford, '50, 9705 % Madison, Rock Hill 19, Mo. 
MONTANA Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 11th Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA Omaha and Council Bluffs—AVilliam Seid­ler, '52, 4817 California St., Omaha, Neb. 

NEW JERSEY Central—^Dan Grace, '51, 406 Accacia Rd., Scotch Plains, N. J. ^Veu> Jersey—William L. Kirchner, Jr., '51, Prudential Insurance Co. of America, 763 Broad St, Newark, N.J. South Jersey—^Thomas J. Auchter, '50, Munn Lane & Kay Drive, Haddonficid, 
N.J. 
NEW MEXICO Anthony F. Potenziani, '40, 1817 Sigma Chi, N.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 

NEW YORK Buffalo—Henry Balling, Jr., '52, 166 Walter ^ Ave., Tonawanda, N. Y. ^Capital District—G. F. Regan, Jr., '27, 1592 New Scotland Rd., Box 158, Slinger-lands, N. Y. Central—J. Garvey Jones, '52, 606 Crossett St., Syracuse, N. Y. Golden Circle—]ames F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson Valley—Donald J. Reynolds, '53, 118 South Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Valley—^Daniel E. Waterbur)', '48, 76 Herthum Rd., Whitesboro, N. Y. ^New York City—^James C. MacDevitt, Jr., 
• '35, 350 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N. Y. Rochester—John F. Burke, '53, 29 Ches-well Way, Brighton, Rochester, N. Y. 
Schenectady—^Leon St Pierre, '55, c/o G. E. Company, P. G. Box 1088, Schenectady, 
N. Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 
Hamilton St, Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—Georsc J. Haines, '42, 63 Davis, Binghamton, New York. 

• NORTH CAROLINA 
North Carolina Club—John O'Connell, '44, 1728 East 7th St., Charlotte, N. C. 
NORTH DAKOTA William Daner, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 

OHIO Akron—John L. Darago, '54, 1361 Hammel St, Akron, Ohio. Canton — James F. Weber, '57, Editorial Dept, Canton Repository, 500 Market W Ave., Souths Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati —• John E. Cronin, '48, 6111 Scarlet Dr.,' Cincinnati 24, Ohio. 
Cleveland—Paul B. Lillis, '42, 1400 National City Bank Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. Columbus—Dr. J. Joseph Hughes, '31, 987 Grandview Ave., Columbus, Ohio. Dayfon—Herman A. Zitt, '48, 635 Bell­monte Park, No., Dayton, Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 South "D" St., Hamilton, Ohio. Northwestern—^^Villiam J. Otte, '35, 401 West Park St., Coldwater, Ohio. Ohio FaHej-—James J. Haranzo, '52, 29 Oakland Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky—Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastwood Drive, Sandusky, Ohio. Tiffin—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St, Tiffin, Ohio. To/erfo—Richard J. Kopf, '49, 2250 Castle-wood Dr., Toledo 13, Ohio. Youngstown—^Thomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA Oklahoma City—Charles L. Monnot, Jr., '34, 1414 N.W. ,37th, Oklahoma City, Okla. Tulsa—John H. Conway, '44, 2927 E. 26th Place, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19th Ave., Portland 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA Central Pennsylvania — Dr. George W. Katter, '41, U. S. Bank Bldg., Johns­town, Pa. £r;V—John McCormick, Jr., '53, 910 Wash­ington Place, Erie, Pa. ffarriiiurg—Donald R. Meek, '50, 1932 Carlisle Rd., Camp Hill, Pa. Lehigh Valley—James H. Walsh, '41, 1303 Delaware Ave., Bethlehem, Pa. Monongaheta Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Pfii7flif«//i/iia—John F. Moorehead, '49, 159 Vassar Road, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. Pittsburgh—Charles L. Christen, '52, 3716 Rebecca St, Pittsburgh 34, Pa. Scranton—Thomas J. Harrington, '34, 105 Washington Rd., Scranton, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Williamsport—Vrziik B. Lundy, '56, 1305 Woodmont Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS James it . McMullen, '36, Providence Journal, Providence, Rhode Island 
SOUTH CAROLINA Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Westwood, Charleston, So. Car. 
SOUTH DAKOTA Black Hills — Bernard Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE Chattanooga—Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W. 
C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave., Chat­tanooga, Tenn. 
Memphis — Raymond Moran, '54,- 1886 Monticello Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS Dallas—John Schroeter, '44, 7814 South­western, Dallas 5, Te.\as. El Paso—James J. Ryan, '53, c/o Murray Hotel, Silver City, New Mexico. 
Houston—Lawrence J. Kelley, '42, 5025 Woodway, Houston, Texas. * . Midland-Odessa — H. Byrne O'Neill, '45, 703 Boyd, Midland, Texas. Rio Grande Valley—Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 
W. Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. 
San Antonio—John M. O'Connell, '53, 123 Colleen Dr., San Antonio 10, Texas. 
UTAH Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Reams Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
VIRGINIA Andrew E. O'Keeffe, '33, 814 St Christo­pher, Richmond 20, Va. Tidewater — Philip L. Russo, '49, 8107 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON Spokane—Armonde R. Albo, '35, W. 2528 Rockwell, Spokane 13, Wash. lyestern — Theodore P. Cummmgs, '44, Dore, Cummings & Dubuar, 905 Ameri­can Bldg., Seatde 4, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA 
John F. Kaemmerer, '53, 2010 Weberwood Dr., South Charleston 3, West Va. Centra/—John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN Fox River Valley—Ralph H. Caston, '42, 530 Grove, Neenah, Wis. Green Bay—Wallace P. Christman, '44, 2423 Beaumont St, Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—James Kroner, '50, 2318 Missis­sippi St, LaCrosse, Wis. Afern'H—Augustus H. Stange, 102 S. Pro»­pect, Merrill, Wis. Milwaukee — John Linnehan, '40, 7318 W. Bluemound Rd., Wauwatosa, Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 219 ^ S. Baistow, Eau Claire, Wis. South Central—Thomas W. Frost, '30, 115 Ely PI., Madison, Wis. Southeastern—John V. Whaley, '51, North Bay, Racine, Wis. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24 (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zin­dabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Canada—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest Blvd., Quebec, Canada. 
Chile—^Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C, '42, St George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. 
Ecuador—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. Guam—Capt V. T. Blaz, Marine Barracks, Navy 926, c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Cal. . A/aniVfl—John-F. Gotuaco, '24, 1316 Penn­sylvania, Manila, Philippines. Mexico City — Telmo DeLandero, *37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—Enrique LuUi, '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. 
Puerto iZiVo-7-Vice-Pres.: Paul McManus, '34, B&M Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
Rome—Secretary: Vincent G. McAloon, '34, c/o Notre Dame International School, Via Aurelia 796, Rome, Italy. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 31 
CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that 
have been reported to the Alumni Office are 
as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of evcr>' month at 8:30 p.m., Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. In addition, a tabic marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CED.-\R RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. CEXTR.'\L OHIO—First Monday (night) of evcrj- month, Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. CENTR-'\L NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­
nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St, Perth Amboy, 
X.J. 
DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of cverj* month at Greider's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. 
DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon, Ye Olde Wayne Club, 1033 AVayne St. (behind the Cass Theatre), Theater). 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives, -Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
INDIAN.APOLIS — Evcr>' Thursday noon at the Indianapolis Bar Association, 33 Nortli Pennsyh-ania St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
K-ANSAS CITY—3917 Broadvvay, Kansas City, Mo. Ph. Plaza 3-2160. 
MIAMI—First Thursday (night) of ever}­month at Hotel Everglades, Biscaync Boulevard, Downtown Miami. 
OKL.AHOM.A CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drivc-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHIL.ADELPHI.A—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH —Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday noon, in the Penn-Shcraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12 noon. Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of everj' month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Thursday of everj' month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON — AVeekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in 

^l^^ ^ -_„ 
Akron 
The Darago Administration, named for banker JOHN DARAGO, '54, the Akron club's new Presi­dent, has been established with JOHN B. HUM­MEL, II, M9, as its Vice-President, BRUCE W. RAFF, JR., M9, a.s its Secretary, and JOSEPH J. WEIBEL as its Treasurer. This administration's platform has been evolved and launched already. 
JOE BOL.\ND, '27, and DON MILLER, '25, Were made telcWsion celebrities again when they Were honored guests on Universal Xotre Dame Night. That night WILLIAM G. BURKHARDT, '35, was presented the Man of the Year Award by HUGH M. COLOPY, *33, and JOSEPH H. KIL\­KER, *29, ser^'ed as the Master of Ceremonies for the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at Akron's Sheraton Hotel. • 
—JOHN B. HUMMEL II, '49, Vice-Prcs. 
i 

Alabama 
Tlie joint Purdue-N. D, boat excursion on May 9 was the last event of the Alabama Club until cooler weather, but now a as good ^ time as any to present the short pra,ycr composed by the Club Chaplain for use before eacli meeting: 
Our Lady of the Golden Dome. , . lovely Queen of our Indiana home. . . smile upon your sons here and there. . . who look to you for motherly care. . . . Listen to voices from the Goldenrod State. . . seeking your help at the Heavenly Gate. . . In the Heart of Dixie we labor and live. . . Send us, O Mar>*, love only Christ can give. 
—Rev. J.P.S., '49. 

Boston 
OlTtccrs of the Notre Dame Club of Boston for 1959-60 are: WILLIAM E. DACEY, JR., '49, Ran­dolph. Mass., president; JOHN F. CONNELL, JR., '51, Lowell, Mass., vice-president; JOHN P. KARLE , '5G, Scituate, Mass., secretary; and DOUGL.\S D. ROBERTSON, '52, Hyde Park, Mass., treasurer. 
Tlic Boston Club's annual family outing u-as held On Sunday, June 21 at Sloncliill College, "Notre Dame of the East." 
Buffalo 
President HENRY BALLING, JR., '32 and Vice-President JOHN ENDERS, Jr., 'S3, spent a very profitable week end on. campus at Notre Danic. TIicsc two current leaders of the BulTalo Alumni 
tl tl 

Club's destiny went right to the top folks on cam­pus to clear one of the most ambitious club pro­grams ever undertaken. Needless to say, Armstrong, Krausc, Caltill, Laughlin, Father Joyce, et al, were most co-operative in firming up the program for the coming year. 
The stag outing for the Buffalo CUib is tradi­tionally an afternoon and evening affair, but this year after the pleasant trip to Slr>-kcrsville, N.Y., most of the attending stags made the most of a whole week end away. , . . This on top of several of the men having been back to school {or their annual class reunion put a few of the "mcn-about­town" way back in the left field doghouse. . . . Some of the commiltcc that made the party so interesting (and extended) were JIM DONOGHUE, *48, and PAUL CARROLL, '48. in charge ol the beer concession. AVALLY NEYERLIN, '53; PAT NEXILLE, '52. and ED KING, *51, programmed the games (both amateur and professional). TOM KELLY was official photographer. Tom is of the Class ot '49 and has been spending lots of photo­graphic time tr>'ing to bring out the best photo­graphic qualities of BOB WEBER, also a forty­niner. . . . Tlie food was continuous and deli­© cious, most everyone had a hand in it at one time or another, but those most responsible for having it in the right town on the given week end were: FR^VNK SHINSKEY, '52 (fresh from being a benedict), DON SEIFERT, '49; TED FL.\NIGAN, '38; ED HA\'ES, '37 (all the way from Dunkirk); DICK WAGNER, '53; FR^VNK KELLNER, '36; TED KUMROW, '36; CY RICK^VRD, '34, and the NOVAK bovs CHARLIE, FR.\NK and JOHN. FR^\NK GAGLIONE and FR.\NK PUS.VTERI (the furniture men) together with AL IFFL^VN­DER, '49, were in cliargc of the tables (for games) both indoors and outdoors. Over all were the sergeants-in-chargc, the Brothers BALLING (HEN­RY and PAUL) assisted by JACK LaVIGNE. This was a stag that will be a long remembered date im the Greater BulTalo histor>-. JOE DUFFY, '48, © now in BulTalo, by way of Indianapolis and Louis­ville, through Tonawanda, has made a motion that Str>'kers\illc annex BulTalo. .. . It might be easier to fmd!*. 
After the stag the "sports" and their friends made the big night at BuJTalo Raceway for the an­nual running of the Notre Dame Handicap. . . . Tliis outstanding event on the Buffalo Club cal­endar is made possible through the co-operation of James J. Dunnigan and his BufTalo Raceway or­ganization. . . . This year JACK BOL/\ND and President HENRY BALLING with the assistance of James J. Dunnigan, president of BufTalo Raceway, presented the Notre Dame cooler blanket to the 
CENTRAL NEW YORK—Enjoying U.N.D.  Night in Syracuse were (1. to r.) Garrey'* 
the main dining room. Hotel Sterling, Jones, president; John McAiiUffc, chairman; James Armstrong, guest speaker; special guests Wilkes-Barre, Pa. Robert Tyo and Leo Eagan, honored as outstanding Syracuse btisinessmen. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
winning horse in the Notre Dame Trot. JACK 
BOL.\ND, chairman, and DON JACOBI, co-cliair­^man , were ably assisted by GENE MILLER, *43; VOO N LOVE, '35; TONY ROCCO, '49; JOE WAT­
SON. '42; JERRY TERHAAR, '50, and JOE MAR­GIN, '43. Incidentally, Joe ^[arcin is the man re­sponsible for the vcr>* professional publicity work that has been going out for the Buffalo Club. 
President Balling has invited all members of the Buffalo Club to get in the "act." There are many interesting projects that could use more manpower. Why not get to know your fellow members better. Work with them. 
—DON JACOBI, *35, Sec>-. 

Calumet Region 
xVbout 400 attended the Sports stag sponsored by 

^h e Cahimct Club on Afonday, May 18, in St. .Michacrs Hall, Hammond, Ind. About a dozen area high school coaclics Joined with two old pros ot the sports-writing field (Norman Wcrr>', sports director of the Gar>- Post-Tribune, and John Wiu­kcr, sports editor of the Hammond Times, in wel­coming JOE KUHARICH and staff. TIM GAL­VIN introduced Joe. WILLIAM J. 0*CONNOR, president, was master of ceremonies, and AN­THO.NY KUHARICH, brother of Joe and U.S. probation ollicer for this district, took bows. 
Central Illinois 
.\t a meeting of the Central iHlnois .Mumni Chib ^ n obser\-ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night the Vtollowing ofHcers were elected for the Springfield, III., area: JOHN C. AMRHEIN, '51, president; THOMAS HA.MILTON, JR., '53, vice-president; DR. GER.\LD T. RIORDAN, '47, secretary-, and 
A. ROBERT GILDNER, '52, treasurer. .Although the Central Illinois Club has been somewhat, inactive over the past four years, it is the goal of the present oHicers to rcacti\'atc the 
Chib and hold a minimum uf four activities an­nually. 
Central New York (Syracuse) 
, With the family picnic in July at Green Lakes 
• !>tatc Park, the Central N.Y. Club goes on \*ac3tion until the student sendoff in September. Earlier, two checks for $100 were sent to Notre Dame for the Library* /\ssn. Drive, one signed by Club Treas­urer P.VUL HICKEY and the other, signed by the wife of President J. GARVEY JONES, from the auxiliary'. 
Chicago 
Chicago Club board and officers met on AVedncs­day evening. May 20 to honor the retiring gover­nors and officers at their annual Testimonial Din­ner. This is the third consecutive year the board has paid tribute to the cfforls expended by their 
^k'lcmbers In furthering Notre Dame's word in tlic 
^^hicago area. Tliis year they paid special tribute to two men for their outstanding work as cliairmen of social events held during the year. JOE ARCHI­BALD, for his outstanding and highly successful golf outing at the Etmhurst Country* Chib and Rj\Y DURST for his superlative Universal Notre Dame Night celebration at which 700 Notre Dame men listened to the Honorable ROBERT D. MURPHY, former Deputy Under Sccrelar>- of State, now Un­der Secrctar>' for political offairs-
Detaiis next issue on the golf tournament and sportsnight dinner held August 3 at Elmhurst Country* Club under the chairmanship of JOHN URBAIN, '52. assisted by JIM JENNINGS and 
president PHIL FACCENDA, '51; TOM FOLEY, 
TtOB KING, HANK McCORMACK, BUD ORR and BILL WHITE, all '52, and PAUL FULLMER, '55. 
Cleveland 
Our annual election held in June resulted in the following list of officers for the 1959-60 yean President, JOHN E. CRONIN, '48; Vice-President, THOMAS D. GROTE, '50; Secrctar>-, BARRY S.WAGE, '54; and Treasurer, JOHN R. LaBAR. '53. 
Current plans call for a "Freshmen Farewell" 
picnic to be held in early September, Freshmen ^n d their fathers will be guests of the Alumni and Vre will be joined by the present students and their 
fathers. Future plans ^vill include participation in Univer­sal Communion Sunday in December and Universal 
FLORIDA—^At the Fifth Annual State Convention of Florida's Notre Dame Clubs several Club Presidents conversed with canipus \*isitors. Rev. Edmund Joyce, C.S.C., and Alumni Secretarj* James Armstrong: (from left) Father Joyce, '37; host John Gallan, *21, Fort Lauderdale; Jim Armstrong, '25; Fred Baumer, '22, Jacksonville; Bill Afadden, '42, Pahn 
Beach, and Charlie Maher, '35, Miami. 
Notre Dame Night in April, Our Christmas Dance 
is now in its 13th year and is well established. Dearborn 
JOHN E. CRONIN, '48, Pres. TIic Notre Dame Club of Dearborn 1959-60 elec­
tion disclosed JOHN FISH, JR., '53, President; 
JL\I KING, '50, \'7ce-Prcsident; and JOE BYRNE, 
Cincinnati 
'52, Sccretar^'-Treasurcr. 
It^s been a busv summer for the N. D. Club of Our annual Family Picnic, ably planned, organ­Cleveland. JOH.V REIDY, JR., and JOSEPH ized and executed by JERRY KELLY, was a grand SCHRINER were cltairmcn of the annual GoK Par­success. Familiar faces were mirrored in the fami­ty at Manakiki Country' Club on June 30, featuring lies of TOM NELSO.N, JACK COURTNEY, JER­buffet hinch, golf, dinner, prizes, etc., with RY SARB, DON HICKS, DICK KING, JERRY F.VTHER NED JOYCE, CS.C , N. D. executive W^WNO and JACK L.AKE among the families vice-president, as featured guest. Honorary* cliair-represented. man and adviser was JOHN CHAPL/\, assisted by The Mid-Summer Dinner-Dance received excel­JERRY .McGR=\TH, Then on July 31 a group de­lent cooperation from the weather and overwhelm­parted fur a Husband and Wife Retreat through ing attendance from members and friends. Mary .August 2 at Our Lady of Fatinia Retreat House on Fish, Jeanne King, and Doris Byrne collaborated the Notre Dame campus. JOHN CHAPL.\, with the ^vivcs of the Board of Directors to pre­GEORGE KERVER and FR.\NK CULL did the sent an evening filled with good music and fine planning. On Sunday, August 16 Notre Dame Alum­food. Acting as hosts for this event were Jerr>­ni and St, Mar\-'s alumnae joined for the annual and Rita Wavno-Family Picnic at Gilmour .Academy. D.\\'B C:\RT-LEE LaR^VCQUE, JACK SCHAEFER, and Dick WRIGHT was chairman. King have been busy with preparation for Future 
Future events will include a scholarship drawing Events, 
for a trip to the Na\y game. Family Communion Lee is cliairman of the Stag Golf Day which will Breakfast, Ctiristmas Dance, Men's Retreat, Rockne have been held August 13 at Glen Oaks C.C. This Communion Breakfast and U.N.D. Night next is an open event for all N. D.ers in the metropoli­.April 21, tan Detroit area. 
Jack Schaefer and Dick King arc co-cliairmen 
of the Club's biggest yearly event, socially and 
Dallas 
financially, the N. D, and M.S.U. football game 
ED ".MOOSE" KR^VUSE was our principal speak­Raffle and Trip, Plans are well undcn*ay for er on Universal Notre Dame Night and did his this renewal of an old rivalry on October 17, at usually wonderful job. East Lansing. 
TIic Club officers for the year 1959-60 are as J. W. BYRNE, Sec-Treas. 
follows: President, JACK SCHROETER; First Vice-President, E.M.\IET O'NEILL; Second Vice-Presi­
Decotur 
dent, B. J. McMEEL; Secretary, MARTY O'CON­It's a little late but worth reporting that our NOR, and Treasurer, DAVE FURLOW. 
St, Patrick's Day Dance was a huge success. 
The Notre Dame Man of the Year for 1958-59 BUZZ MORiVN was choirnian of the event for was JOHN MOR.-\N, %vho u-as selected because of the second straight year, and never was more effort his wonderful work with the Notre Dame Club of exerted in planning a good time. Somehow Buzz Dallas Scholarship Fund. 
managed to get an eight-piece band on our limited The Club had a free smoker on the night of June budget, which really added to things, ^fuch 3, and on July 11 had a family affair at the Great thanks. Buzz! Southwest Club ^vhich included dancing, swimming 
On April 22, 1959, Universal Notre Dame Night and dinner. .A retreat for Notre Dame men was was celebrated at the Blue Mill in Decatur. .AL­
planned for August 21-22 at beautiful Lake Dallas. 
Lf\N L/\NDOLT was cliairman. with GEORGE —MARTIN R. 0'C0N*NOR, Sec'y 
HUBBARD, BOB UHL and STEVE GRALIKER as committee. There were over 50 assembled for cocktails, dinner and a most excellent talk by JOHN Dayton BRODERICK, asst, dean ol the N. D. Law School. Past President PAUL LjVMMERS had high praise Hi$ informal words got right down to the core for DR. THOXfAS GARNEY of the Eli Lilly Co., of the educator's problems today and just \%-hat Indianapolis, who spoke at the last U.N.D. Night steps Notre Dame is taking to find a solution. Also in Dayton. Paul wrote: "I would recommend at U. N. D, Night in Decatur It ^vos our young him as a speaker to any Notre Dame Club, and club's greatest privilege to present the "Man of also I feet he is one of our outstanding Notre Dame the Year" award to our president BERNARD men of the Midwest." MtVRTY. Without Bernle's efforts and guidance, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 33 
1. ff ^ 
Joe Kuharich was never better protected as he's surrounded by N.D. men serving with the FBI during a spring visit to the New York FBI office: (seated, 1. to r.) Robert Grant, '48 (Philadelphia office); WiUiam J. Tracy, '47; Kuharich, '38; Harvey G. Foster, '38, chief, New York div-ision; James P. Mansfield, '48; John R. Kennedy, '49; (standing, L to r.) Richard A. Cordasco, '50; William J. Crumley, Jr., '48; Charles \S\ Cavanaugh, '43; Joseph R. Corcoran, '47; Charles L. Lutes, '50; John J. Elliott, '50; Edward F. Foley, '52; William Paul Rooney, '50; Frederick F, McMahon, '48; Daniel W. Long, '46, smd Lawrence H. Bracken, '41. Other N.D. agents in New York who ivercn't present are Guy C. Berado, '49; William A. Bracken, '47; John F. O'Connor, '50; Henry F. Crowley, '52; John J. Dunleavy, '47;-;^ Thomas J. Emerj*, '52; Nicholas M. Kalmes, '32; Anthony J. Maloney, Jr., '43; John F. Mabey, '48; A. Raymond Switzer, '50, and F. ^ 
Anthony Tanscy, '48, 

the Drcatur Notre Dame Club would still be a fircam. Our Xotrc Dame family Is increasing: to. FRANK LEX and BOB UHL baby boys, to MILT BEAUDINE a baby girl. 
Since the first of the year we have five new members. TIie%- arc POYNTELLE DOU7«ING and his son BILL bo\\*NING, BOB MURRAY, JACK MULLIGAN and STEVE FORAN, JR. There are still some N. D. men in the area who haven't joined us yet. 
The next event was our third annual Golf & Stag, hdd on July 16. JOHN FOY, his reputa­tion now world-wide for having a ball, referecd the 19th hole and sav\- that the food and drinks were in ample supply. Actually the golf outing was just a warm-up for our golf team, who ex­pected to grab off honors at the Chicago Club Goll Tournament in August. Representing Decatur in the Windy Citv were BERNIE LIVERGOOD, cap­tain and trainer; BERNIE MARTY, STEX'E GRA­LIKER and G. RAROLD HUBBARD, anclionnan. 
BERNARD D^VYER will manage the new Thrifty drug store at N. Main and Pershing Rd. in Deca­tur. GEORGE HUBBARD is now selling stocks and bonds for Tabor & Co. in Decatur. At the moment he has a good deal going on municipal bonds and is willing to handle mail orders (62 Grccnridge Drive). 
JLM RICHESON of the Pangbom Corp. (familiar name) has been frequenting our monthly luncheons; in fact, he came to our April luncheon whicli was called off. Jim works out of St. Louis. Our lunclicons arc as usual on the fourth Wednesday of cacJi month at Grieders Cafe, N. Main St., De­catur. 
Last but not least, STEVE GRALIKER has lost the distinction of being Decatur's most eligible bachelor to JI^f UHL. Steve is now Decatur's most confirmed bachelor. Some people are just slow. 
—MILT BEAUDINE, '54. 

Denver 
Activities of the Denver Notre Dame Club seem to be suffering through a mild lull. Last spring's Universal Notre Dame Night celebration, with FATHER HESBURGH as honored guest and fea­tured speaker, was certainly the biggest social event ever held by the local club. Tlie excitement from that event evidently has not worn off yet. 
Two annual events arc sclicdulcd, however. Tlic many local Notre Dame sports stars were expected to attend the Denver Notre Dame Club's second annua] Sports Luncheon. Included jn the list of feaurcd guests were former Notre Dame all-Ameri­can JOHNN'Y LATTNER, ex Irish basketball star JOHNN\' DEE and freshman coach HUGH DE­VORE via telephone inter\•ie\^•. Also expected to attend new Colorado University football coach and former Michigan State all-Amcrican Sonny Gran­delius. The year's other annual happening will be 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
the iJub's annual late summer picnic. Plans arc now being laid for a gala affatr that will be re­ported on in the next edition. 
DENVER DIARY , 

JOHN LATTNER, '54, has joined the coaching staff of Denver University as backficid coach. . . . New to the Denver fraternity of attorneys are KER\\1N FULTON, '33, and TOM GODFRY, '54. . . -JOHN DEE, '52, coach of the Dcnver-Chtcago basketball team, led his team to the Na­ional Industrial Basketball League title. . . . PAT CARRICO, '54, recentlv joined the editorial staff of The Denver Post. . . . JIM HANLON, '18, is laying plans for this fall's special train to the Notre Dame vs. Navy game in South Bend on Oct. 
31. . . . New Denver Realtor, recently moved from Columbus, Ohio, is BOB POISSON, '49. . . . Run­ning imopposed for his second term as Denver City Auditor in last May's municipal election was TOM CURRIGAN, '41. . . . BILL ^UHONEY, '48, and AL O'MEARA, '40, local ChevToIet and Ford dealers respectively, both played a big role in this year's Denver Auto Show. . . . FRANK JOHN­STON, '54, recently signed as assistant football coacli at Colorado Univcrsilv. 
ROBERT ZEIS, JR., '54, Sec>-. 

Detroit 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at the Latin Quarter on April 8, 1959. Under the diairmanship of LOU CONROY some 500 Alumni and friends gathered to pay tribute to the Scliool of Our Lady. 
We in the Motor Citv were indeed honored to have FATHER THEODORE M. HESBURGH, President of the Unix'ersity, as our guest speaker. In his talk. Father Hcsburgh reiterated remarks made earlier in the day at a press conference. He stressed the University's ideals to inspire and mo­ti\:alc young students, who arc not necessarily geniuses, but who have the basic intelligence to do good, hard, solid study. He pointed out that a university's responsibility is to make each student *'u5C what God has given him" and to develop an imagination, initiative and moral responsibility which will mold him into a *'who]e man." 
Father Hcsburgh also outlined the Foundation's Ten-Year Plan and just what wc hope to accom­plish by strengthening the faculty and facilities to entrcncli Norc Dame among the top Uni\'ersitics of the World. Currently Notre Dame is running sixth from the top in scholarships and fellowships in open competition with 1,800 colleges and uni­versities across the nation which, indeed, is a true indication of the quality ~ of education offered at Notre Dame. Father Hcsburgh concluded his talk by re-dedicating the Scliool to Notre Dame du Lac. 
Preceding Father Hcsburgh's inspiring talk awards were given to EDWARD A. GAGE, De­troit's 1959 "Notre Dame Man of the Year" and 
to JOSEPH H. CAREY, retiring President of Notre 
Dame Club of Detroit. 
An impressive array of 33 guests representing leaders of the local cix'ic, business and educational fields were introduced by Byron J. Nichols, Chr>'s­ler Corporation group vice president for automotive sales, who presided as toastmaster. 
The newly elected officers for 1959-60 were in­stalled: President, DON HERRON; First Vice President, LOU CONROY; Second Vice PrcsidentjQ WILLIAM RONEY; Secrctarv. JERRY ASHLEY, and Treasurer, THOMAS J. VERBIEST. 
Numerous events are being planned for the '59­'60 season. 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit had its annual summer golf party at Oakland Hill Countr>' Club on Tuesday, June 30. 
JOHN PANELLI. All-Amcrican fullback in IW8 at Notre Dame and former Detroit Lion and Chi­cago Cardinal star, was chairman of this year's event. 
JOE KUHARICH, head football coacli of the Fighting Irish, was guest speaker at dinner follow­ing golf. Athletic director ED KRAUSE and FATHER JEROME WILSON, business vice Presi ^ dent, were also invited. ^ ^ 
As an added attraction, Oakland Hills made ar­rangements to have Sammy Snead demonstrate the finer points of golf. 
Tlic Notre Dame Club presented a specially built 1959 Ford station wagon to VAN ^VALL.\CE, a former student from Mt. Clements injured in a swimming accident on July 4, 1924. Van, who liad just completed his freshman year at South Bend, has been confined to bed ever since. 
Ecuador 
From Quito, Ecuador, S..\., Club President JOHN MOELLER reports on the state of the organizzrfX tion. Organized under the stimulus of visits b^i ' FATHERS HESBURGH, KENNA and CUNNING­HAM, with John as president and ANTONIO MORTENSEN as 5ecrctar\*-trcasurer, the Ecuador Club has been in existence for three years. At first there were frequent meetings in the homes of xTirious members, but the practice was discontinued because, u-ith t>-pical Latin hospitality, each host would try to outdo the others in the lavishncss of arrangements. At the end of the' summer season John will attempt to reorganize on a different basis. 
President Mocller, married and the father of a family, is the owner of a dair>* farm and is execu­tive director of the Fulbright Commission in Ecua­dor. He sent the following information on other members. Secretary* Mortensen is married and cn^k ployed as manager of a matcli company in QuitoiEr JAIME PINTO, married, with cliildrcn, is the owner of a textile faciorv, as is family man FRAN­CISCO PINTO. JOSE ANDRADE, a farmer, is married and has children. So docs OSWALDO ARROYO, partner in an arclntcctural-cngincering 
t
firm. ALFONSO GRIJALVA is single, a larmer and active in politics, while Tarnicr RAMIRO SA­MANIEGO is married and has a family. Bachelor LUIS GALVEZ works for the government. Farm­ers ALEJ.VNDRO VILL^VVICENCIO and JORGE ESPINOS.-\ arc both married and lathers. GON­ZALO SERRANO, also a farmer at present, h a bachelor. Temporarily missing from Quito but ex­pected to return as members arc ALBERTO PEREZ and, of course, JOSE G.\RCIA, who is a graduate student at N. D. on a Fulbright grant. In October, when members will return to town to start tlicir children in school, John hopes to begin a scries of more enjo>'abIc and less preten­tious stag events, with periiaps one party a year lo include the ladies. 
Erie 
The Erie Club htld its first annual week-end retreat Feb. 21 and 22 at Mission Manor in Girard, Pa. Father Ralph Roincr, S.V.D., was retreat master and the theme of the retreat was "Faith." 
This was undoubtedly the most inspiring and worlliwhile function thai the club has ever partici­pated in. Retrcatants were JACK BERTGES, DR. FELIX SHUBERT, JOE GL.\SS, TONY Z.\MBROSKI, MIKE CAREY, DON BUSECK. BOB LUKES, LEO BRUGGER, DR. FREDERICK GABRIEL, JOE BARBER, L^VRRY STADLER, HERB KERN, ED KERN, JOHN McCORMICK, RICH McCORAHCK and JOHN WALSH. 
' At the club's March dinner meeting, held at Martucci's Tavern, after a dish (large) of that de­licious spaghetti, tu'o new directors were elected. Directors whose terms expired arc DON BUSECK, '50, and EARL O'CONNOR, *16. Newly-dectcd arc ED KERN, '56, and RICH McCORMICK; '55. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES ARMSTRONG were hon­ored guests on the occasion of Universal Notre Dame Night in Erie. Mr. Armstrong spoke on the quali­ties required of the Notre Dame Man of the future and Mrs. Armstrong charmed the group with a few words from the women's side. 
JOSEPH C. BARBER, '36, was presented the Notre Dame Man of the Year award. Atty. Bar­ber was singled out for his exemplar^' professional actinties and his achievements in alumni circles. 
Other honored guests included Father Richard Carter and Father Edward Wojniak, SVD, author of **Thc Atomic Apostle." Also — Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT G. KERN, JR., Mr. and Mrs. AN­THONY Z.\.M0ROSKI, Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS BARBER, Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BARBER, Mr. and Mrs. LEO BRUGGER, Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES WITTMANN, Mr. and Mrs. DONALD 
C. BUSECK, Mr. and Mrs. HOWARD ESSICK, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM GRANT, Mr. and ^^r5. JOHN J. McCORMICK, JR., Mr. and Mrs. RICH McCORMICK, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN S. YOUNG, .Mr. JOHN WALSH, Mr. and ^trs. JOHN DU­aVTO, Dr. and Mrs. FREDERICK R. GABRIEL, Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH T. STADLER, ^^^. and' Mrs. LAWRENCE STADLER, .Mr. and Mrs. J. T. HEINLEIN, Mr. and Mrs. T. J. McCVRTHY, Mr. and Mrs. JACK BERTGES, Mrs. Marian Shaaf and Mr. F. H. Hipp. 
It was decided at the club's ^fay meeting, held at Carmen's Restaurant, that a rafllc would be held for a trip for two to the 1959 N. D.-Na\y football game. The motion for this particular game, made by HU.MPHREY SULLIVAN, was seconded by E. Erdlatz. The raffle is being held for the benefit of (he Notre Danic Foundation, 
Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. FRED STRj\S­SER, '57, on the arrival of their daughter. Fred, who is now in the Array at Ft. Carson, Colo., is anxiously awaiting his magic date. 
The club is looking forward to liaving BILL O'­BRIEN of Pittsburgh with them for the summer as he and his family will be at his summer cot­tage in Edinboro, Pa. 
DICK DALEY, *53, is selling surgical supplies for The American Sterilizer Co. He is presently located in Davenport, Iowa. 
JOHN WALSH, '57, is also selling for the Ameri­can Sterilizer Co. in the Meadeville, Pa., area. John married Miss Helen Cavanaugh on July 25 in Lansing. Mich. 
ED KERN, '56, and Miss Cathy Carrig were married on May 2, 1959. 
It was the club's pleasure to welcome Marv and BOB LUKES, '49, into our ranks recently. LEO BRUGGER, '34, and CHARLIE WITT­MANN, '31, working feverishly for an annual >-acht excursion to places unknown. 
JACK GOULD, '57, is all set for those cool summer evening rides in his new MG sports car. It looks as though Jack will be the favorite at 

HIAWATHALAND—Mrs. Phil McCanna, Marinette, Wis., accepts her husband's Man-of-the-Year a>v-ar{l from Mike O'Hara, Menominee, Mich., attorney, on U.N.D. Night in Escanaba, Mich. Dr. McCanna, unable to attend, was also named secretary-treasurer of the Hiawathaland Club. 
the club's annual golf outing unless TOM YOUNG, '53, comes home or TONY ZAMBROSKI, '52, scrapes tlie rust ofT Iiis clubs. 
It's hard to pick a winner at the goU outing and will be especially difficult this year, as rumor has it, that if JOE BARBER, '36, can get into his golf knickers this year he's going to go the eighteen. 
DON BUSECK, '50, has been hitting those shag balls quite a bit lately and lias been heard to say that JOHN DUCfVTO, '47, who made a stir last vcar. ought lo be "duck soup'* this year. 
Our regular caddies — UVRRY STADLER, '28, and PHIL HAGGERT^', '53, will be on hand again this year. 
RAY LEGLER, '57. and JOHN WALSH, '57, are not entering as they seem to think one can do better at making side bets throughout the day. 
I certainly hope that those of you who are inter­ested in the outcome of our outing will read this column in the next issue for results. As a matter of fact, we members of the Erie Club will have to do the same for the results as it is a gross breach of ethics and etiquette to di\'ulge anyone's score during or for the two weeks immediately follow­ing the outing. 
—RICHARD T. McCOR.MICK, '55, Scc>-. 
Fairfield County 
At a summer meeting WILLIAM MULREN.AX, '37, of Fairfield, Conn., was elected president of the Fairfield Conntv Club, succeeding ROBERT K. GRIFFIN. 
Fort Lauderdale 
The fifth annual State Convention of the Notre Dame Clubs ot Florida was held at the Sea Ranch Hotel. Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, on April 24, 25 and 2G. 
Perfect weather again greeted the over 100 Notre Dame Men and their wives who traveled from all sections of the state, and from out-of-state as well, to assist in making this one of our most outstand­ing affairs. 
Once again, hard working BOB GORE, JR., '31, ser\'cd as General Chairman, and together with his lovely wife. Marge and Club President JOHN G\L­L.AN, '21. and his wife, Eileen, acted as official hosts for the Convention. ^Vssisting Chairman Gore were committee members GEORGE ERNST, '29; DICK WHEL.\N, '42; FRANK McDONOUGH, '41. and TOM WALKER, '42. 
Wc were particularly honored this year by the attendance of His Excellencj*, Most Rev. COLE­.\L\N F. Cx\RROLL, the first Bishop of the ncwly­formcd Diocese of Miami. Also in attendance and representing the University were Rev. EDMUND JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice president, and JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, alumni sccretar>-, ac­companied by Mrs. Armstrong. 
The Convention got under way Friday evening with a particularly fine fish dinner, with the fish being supplied through the efforts of Club Members WILLAR MOSS and BOB GORE, JR., who **slavcd" all the prcwous day in the Florida sun to provide the catch. The dinner was followed by a Mardi Gras Night, a new and most successful in­novation this year, and as a result of which, through the efforts of the conventioneers at the \*arious games of chance, the associated clubs of the state were able to contribute $240 to the University. 
The 36ih Universal Notre Dame Night banquet was held in the main dining room of the Sea Ranch Saturday evening with many additional members and guests in attendance who were unable to spend the entire week-end with us. Father Joyce was principal speaker and told us a great deal of the University's present and future plans. Jim .Armstrong then proceeded to tell us in his own inimitable manner how wc all could play a part in those plans. President Callan presented Father Joyce with a check for $700 from the club treasury. 
Another highlight of the dinner was the presen­tation to FRANK J. McDONOUGH, '41, of the Man of the Year award for the Fort Lauderdale Club. Frank, tvho served as Club President in 1958, well deserved the axvard for his accomplish­ments, not only unthin the Club, but also in busi­ness and ciWc ventures. 
On Sunday morning Bishop Carroll celebrated eight o'clock Mass at nearby Church of the As­sumption and then presided at the Communion breakfast. Bishop Carroll ^^'as a%\*arded the Miami Club's Man of the Year a\*-ard at the breakfast (sec Miami Club notes). The rest of Sunday was devoted to enjoying the famous Sea Ranch Buffet and the awarding of tournament prizes. Prize wn­ncrs wore as follows: 
Putting tournament (men), FRED BAUMER and (ladies) Mrs. C. P. S.\DOWSKl; shufHeboard, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. ATKINS; ping pong (singles), CHET SADOWSKI; (doublcsl, C. H. NETTER and TO.M WALKER; horse shoes, JIM .ARM­STRONG and GEORGE ERNST. 
CONVENTION NOTES . . . FATHER JOYCE had an unscheduled thrill when MIKE ZOROVICH, '44, fle\v him in his private plane from Fort Lauderdale to Miami to catch his scheduled plane north. . . . Ever>'one was saddened by the death last month of Missy Glass. 13-year-old daughter of club member PAUL GLASS, '40. Father Joyce offered his ^fass for her on Sunday morning of the Convention. . . . JIM ARM­STRONG'S practice Horse Shoe pitching on Cam­pus has paid dividends as he was second in the Convention Horse Shoe Contest with sharp-eyed partner GEORGE ERNST, '29, the winner and still champ. BILL HICKEY, '42, and his wife. Pat, traveled the longest distance to attend the Convention— all the way from Chicago. Bill, of course, is FORCED to attend these affairs as Secretary of the Class of 1942. . . . Club Member BILL RICKE, '39, deser\'es a vote of thanks for bis fine candid camera work during the weekend. .. . CY STROK-

Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1959 35 
ER, '37, Lalcland, enjoyed the reunion with his old roommate, Fatlicr Joyce. Cy is due for a fine promotion at Danson Chemical Company at Bartow, Florida. . . . GEORGE RUDOLPH, *42. also of Lakeland, is fast gaining the title of the baldest man in the Class of '42 (perhaps it can be attrib­uted to the used car business). . . . BILL RICKE's camera proved that DR. BILL WELCH, '48, still can cut a mean rug on the dance floor. . . . EMMET MORAN, '42, formerly of Chicago, is now a resident of South Miami. 
Fort Wayne 
Since our last report to the ALUMNUS, many club activities have taken place. In Februar\- we had election of officers at a meeting held at the CcntUiTc Social Room, TIic new officers are PAUL SCHIRMEYER, President; R.\LPH BLU.ME, Vice-President; JOE D.VXIEL, Vice-President; AL WARD, Treasurer; and BOB LUTHER, Secretary*. The program for the evening included sport movies shown by BOB O'REILLY. 
In March we held our annual Day of Recollection at the Crosier House of Studies. Father JOSEPH FICHTNER, O.C.S., was our retreat master; JIM and JACK SCHEXKEL were co-chairmen of this event. 
The highlight of this year's activities occurred in April on Universal Notre Dame Night. ^Vc were honored with the presence of JAMES ARM­STRONG as our guest speaker. Tlie event u-as held at the Orchard Ridge Country Club. Included in the program was the selection of JOSEPH COL­LIGAN as our Notre Dame Man of the Year. The presentation of this award was made by DON­NELLY P. MCDONALD, jr., a former recipient of tills award. DICK ROSENTHAL u-as diairman and toastmastcr of this annual event whicli proved ver>' successful as alwav*s, 
—JOE DANIEL, Retiring Secretary-

Hiawathaland 
At the Hiawathaland Club's Universal Notre Dame Night ceremony in Escanaba, Midi., DR. PHIL McCiVNNA of Marinette, Wis., was named as Notre Dame Man of the Year. His wife ac­cepted the award since he was unable to attend. Tlie new Hiawathaland ofiiccrs are: T. J. BER­G.AN, Escanaba, president; DON TROTTIER, Es­canalia. vice-president; and DR. PHILIP R. Mc-CANNA, secrelarv'-trcasurer. 
Club members were saddened by the death of Mr. Frank Laucrman, father of Ray and Frank and uncle of Henry Laucrman. In the past year L. T. PLOUFF visited Rome (enjoying ah audience with the Holy Fatlier and the hospitality of the N.D. Club of Rome) and also toured Central and South America. 
Houston 
Some 150 members of the Houston Notre Dame Club and tlie Ladies' Auxiliary gatlicrcd on Wed­nesday evening. April I, at the River Oaks Country Club for the Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner. ED ".MOOSE" KRAUSE was the honored guest for the evening. His address was a highlight as he recalled his greatest days in Notre Dame, paid tribute to the alumni of the school, and then out­lined the aims of the university in its athletic and educational program. 
PAUL J. DOYLE, '36, a name of South Chicago, Illinois, and now the father of four cliildren, was selected as tlie Notre Dame Man of the Year. He was presented a placque by outgoing president LEIGHTON YOUNG for his outstanding service to the Church, his community, and Notre Dame. 
Tlic new officers of the Club were introduced bv the master ol ceremonies R. CONROY SCOGGINS. Tlie>- arc: LARRY KELLEY, M2, president; LEO 
.LINBECK, JR., '56, vice-president; DON Mc-CRORY, '57, secretary, and JERRY ODDO, '57, treasurer. MRS MARY MILLER, the newly dected president of the Notre Dame -Auxiliary was intrf>­duced, and MRS. GEORGE T. ADAM was com­mended for her job as outgoing president. 
—E. D. McCRORY, JR., Sccv-. 

Indianapolis 
Since this is the Initial artide of your new cor­respondent, I find it difficult to determine where to begin this report of our dub activities. So wc 
•will start with our very successful Universal Notre Dame Night, way back on April 7tli where JOE KUHARICH was our cxcdlent prindpal speaker. At this dinner, which was attended by 400 alumni and friends from the Greater Indianapolis area, the nominating committee announced tlic dectlons for 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
The Prompter's Box 

>L\N OF THE YEAR You will notice that this year's Universal Notre Dame Night reports and pictures are peppered vtith the phrase, "Notre Dame Man of the Year.** The word "peppered** is used advisedly: the Man-of-lhe-Year award is the spice of U. N. D. Night and, like any spice, de­mands care and caution in application. Thus Men of the Year are not nearly so universal as 
U.N.D. Night itsdf. Until recently the Alumni Office supplied Man-of-the-Ycar scrolls to every Notre Dame Club. The practice was abandoned lest each Club feel obliged to nuUce an au-ard every- year regardless of the fitness of mndidatcs. The ex­pense of the general distribution M'as secondary* to the danger of cheapening the award Itsdf as a reason for the decision. In recent years the scrolls have been supplied only on request. The recipients may be fewer, but they are outstand­ing in their exemplificxtion of the Ideals and aspirations Implicit In the phrase ''Notre Dame man." The award is susceptible of all kinds of modi­fications. The Philadelphia Club named Cardi­nal 0*Hara *'N. D. Mao of the Years," since a single year seemed inadequate. Most nominees are alumni, but au-ards to distinguished non-alumni arc often timely and, as with smaller groups whose members would otherwise merely trade awards, sometimes do%vnright nccessarj'. The N. D. Club of Jackson, Mich., has recog­nized a penitentiary* warden, a Fclidan nun, and this year the whole Jackson police force along with the chid as **Men of the Year.*' Possibilities are endless as long as merit is high. A popular device for choosing candidates Is the appointment of a selection committee made up of former winners. This will spare a pos­sible nominee the embarrassment of having to rule on his own candidacv* and eliminate the 
danger that a leading candidate will disqualify himself. 
the 1959-60 dub year. BOB WELCH, '50, u-as dected president, and PAT FFTZGERALD, '52, as vice-president. Tlic sccretar>*'s post went to BILL McGOWAN, '57, and the re-elected "banker" was DICK OWENS, '42. These four edged out JOE QUILL, '48; JACK O'HARA, '49; BILL MOO­NEY, '57, and FRANK HURLEY. *50. The enUre club membership would like to thank last year's officers for a job more than well done. Credits go to LEO BARNHORST, '49; TO.M BULGER, '39; CHUCK STIMMING, '53, and DICK OUXNS, '42. Hope this year's group can carrv- on the fine pro­grams they inaugurated during their term. 
One week after the dinner the officers and board of directors met to discuss old and new plans for 
MIAMI — Bishop Coleman F. Carroll (right), shown with Mrs. Jim Armstrong and Father Joyce, addressed the Com­mimion Breakfast and was named Aliami's *'Man of the Year*' during the Lauderdale Convention. 
tlie coming year. Besides the newly-elected officers 
previously named, all of the following board mem­
bers were present: JACK ELDER, '30; HENRY -. 
ENGEL, '40; JOHN FORD, '37; JOHN HAR-^f 
RINGTON, *29; TOM a\RNEY, '37; BUD TUR­
NER, M8, and the past president, LEO B.ARN­
HORST, '49 (ex-officio). 
Our hard working president then sent out sev­
eral letters to tlie entire membership, setting up 
committees and telling of the coming events. 
On June 18, BILL S.AHM, '51, and his commit­
tee ran one of our largest annual Stag Outings. 
One o[ the reasons (besides the beverages) for the 
good turnout w*as the newly installed phone com­
mittee. This committee, headed by the Veep and 
this writer, proved to be ver>' bcncfidal In remind­
ing tlie alumni to "come on out." The honored 
guests at this function were the 15 June graduates. 
JOHN VAS BE.NTON, '44, heads the Job counsel-A 
ing committee, whidi is attempting to help the 
graduates procure jobs in the Indianapolis area. 
TIic dub now has an executive secretary- in JACK 
BR--\DSH.\W, *54, and our permanent downtown 
club address will be 1006 Chamber of Commerce 
BIdg. We hope that all the members will keep 
Jack informed as to any changes of address by 
calling his law office, ME 4-7588. Also vvc hope 
when you alums arc In town you will contact the 
members by phoning Jack, 
We planned a real professional golf tournament 
for July 23. JOHN FOLEY, captain of the golf 
team at school in '55, v**as made diairman of the 
event and was ruled Ineligible to play since he 
vrins it loo often. A, 
President Bob has created a great deal of spirit ^ ' 
and interest in the club, combining the talents of 
the young and old. Briefly I would like to men­
tion some of our tentative plans for the future: (1) 
Our N. D. Family Picnic will be held at Ladv-wood 
School on Sunday, Aug. 23, with JACK ELDER, 
'30, "running the show." (2) Tlie Interview Com­
mittee for bo>"5 entering Notre Dame, in September, 
1959, Is in operation. (3) Plans are under way 
for the Indianapolis Scholarship trip to possibly 
the Northwestern game, and wc are considering 
bringing Notre Dame away-football games to the 

Indiana Tlicater via closed circuit TV. (Tlie 
profits from this would also help keep our four 
sdiolarship winners in Notre Dame.) (4) The 
Father & Son Corporate Communion Breakfast will A'V 
be December 6. (5) To promote more interest in W-' 
the Alumni Christmas Dance Is another new plan 
for this year. 
I hope this was not too windy but our president requested mc to "tell all" and the editors of this magazine said "fill space." Tlianks, and hope to see you soon. 
—BILL McGOWAN, JR., '57, Scc>-. 

Kansas City 
The start of summer brought the activities of our club into high gear. The .\iL\iIiary was active as usual and Mrs. W. J. SH.ARP Is the new Presi­dent. Our President, JOHN MASSMAN, presided ^ at tlic installation and in return, received a sub- QJ stantial donation to be forwarded to the Univer­sity. This was the result of the profits of the many and varied fund raising functions of the busy aux­iliary. Tlic club offers their congratulations and thanks to the outgoing officers led bv MRS. JOE VanDYKE. 
Tlie Schlltz Brcwerv* held a "Sdilitzfest" in honor of HUGH DEVORE and DICK BOWES. We turned out 150 strong. The full proceeds went to the scholarship fund. Hugh did a great Job and the University received plenty of good publidty as the event was covered by local newspapers and television stations. Tills is an annual affair for local alumni. A , 
Five da>-s later, June 13, to be exact, the auxi- ^-^ liar>' held its summer cocktail party. Two hundred guests swelled the Sdiolarship Fund with their contributions. Frankly, we're extremely proud of tlic ladies, God bless them. They arc an active, interested group furthering the best interest of tlie University. Wc arc sure no finer auxillar>' exists anywhere and, gentleman, they average over a thousands dollars a year in monetary gifts to Uni­versity. 
LOCAL ALUM.NT IN THE NE^VS: PAUL RUPPS* Auto Parts Company opened a new addi­tion recently and the Cliillicothe paper honored them uith a 32-page supplement. TOM CARROLL joined CONNIE MACK as N.D, representatives on the Kansas City Athletics so tlic Victory Mardi A \ is now a part of Zcnas' daily selections on the -^ Munldpal Stadium organ. 
TOM O'MALLEY Is in the midst of producing our first roster In eight years. He believes delivery will take place in July. While Tom wrestles the printers, CR/\IG WHITAKER is intcr\icwing ap­plicants for the annual 51600 scholarsl\ip. This 
I award h the result of the many functions of the club so the clioice of the worthiest applicant is an important and diflicuU task. Craig and his com­mittee do a remarkable job. 
RUSSELL FARRELL and BOB METZLER an­nounced a football trip to the N.D.-Northwestern game. Plans to be announced later. In the mean­time, we'll have two more functions prior to tlie game. The annual summer picnic in August fol­lowed by a freshman kickofT dinner. 
Visiting alumni arc always invited to attend our functions and information is a\-ailablc bv calling Plaza 1-2360. 
—G. J. "JLM" HIGGINS, '53, Sec>-. 

#Kentucky 
Members of the Kentucky club took part in a closed retreat at the famed Abbey of Our Lady of Gethscmani, Trappist-Cistercian monastcrj* at Trap­pist, Ky., in late May. 
La Crosse 
FATHER TOM NINNEM/VN conducted the club's second holy hour of the season May 25 at St. Dominic's Monastery. Tliis spiritual function is open to Notre Dame Club members, their wives, families and friends. Four such holy hours are held each year. Incidentally, Father Tom, who is athletic director of Aquinas High Scliool, heads for 
•Catholic University in Washington, D. C , thb sum­mer to take courses in higher education. 
TO.\f JAEB, Caledonia, Minn., and BOB KELLY, Winona. Minn., arc two recent additions to our club. Wc lost a lo>'al member of long standing when BOB PADESKY and family moved to Port Huron, Mich., in June. 
Members arc now pointing to the steak fr>' held annually in September at PETE Rt\U's cottage. BERNIE L/UINS, JERRY HEBERLEIN, ROGER ZOELLNER and TOM SAGGAU head the com­mittee geared to make the event a, success. 
Tom Saggau has recently joined the personnel department of the Trane Company here in the citv. —STE\'E PAXXL.V, M8, Secy.' 
^Lehigh Valley 
Summertime has been a busy time with the No­tre Dame Club of the Lehigh Valley. xUter the regular May membership meeting at the Hotel Bethlehem, the neiv year under President JI^t WALSH got under way. Tlie June membership meeting held on June 25 at the Hotel Easton in Easlon, Pa., featured tlie showing of the Pruden­tial Insurance Company film, "Rocknc of Notre Dame." The film which appeared over CBS-TV's "Twentieth Centur\'" show last fall was a tre­mendous success. TOM FOGART\' handled ar­rangements for the meeting. 
Highlight event of July was the annual family L picnic. JOHN SIMITZ and his fine committee ar­" ranged the outing for the ahimni, students, and 
guests. Although the Old Timers spent several weeks in training, the outcome of the annual 'soft­ball game was uncliangcd as the youngsters won again. 
August will see the second golf outing. Prizes for ability as well as the "most honest golfer" will be awarded. 
—TOM >L\G1LL, '55, Secy. 
Los Angeles 
After U.N.D. Night under the capable chairraan­
^ship of BILL HUSTON, the continuing officers, 
I through President DON BRADY, reported that the 
year's actiWties had netted $2,500, $2,000 of which went into the scholarship fund, which now ap­proaclics $7,000. A committee Is being set up to determine the basis for scholarship awards. 
Tlie summer picnic, managed by PAUL RUBLY, will be followed shortly by a retreat, Sept. 11-13 (EUGENE CALHOUN, chairman) and a Fresh­man Scndoff under the direction of BOB KELLEY. Future events will include a Sports Dinner in No­vember (under LEO TURGEON), December Com­munion Breakfast (PAUL ROONEY) and Christmas Dance (MARK WALSH), and next April's U.N.D. Night under the chairmanship of MORT GOOD­.\L\N. 
Miami 
The fifth annual State Convention of Florida No­tre Dame Clubs was again held at the Sea Ranch 

MIDLAND-ODESSA —This gay throng greeted N.D. athletic director Ed Krause (seated, center) on a U. N. D. Night visit to Midland, Texas. 
Hotel in Ft. Lauderdale, April 24-25-26. In at­tendance from the University was FATHER JOYCE, executive vice president and JIM ARM­STRONG, fVIumni Secretar>', both of whom gave talks at the Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet. JOHN L. a\LL.\N, President of Lauderdale Club was M.C. of the affair. Tlic highlight of the week­end insofar as our local club is concerned, was the awarding of the title "Notre Dame Man of the Year 1958" to His Excellency, the Most Reverend COLEMAN F. CARROLL, Bishop of Miami. Tliis presentation by tlie Miami Club was made by Pres­ident CHARLIE M.AHER at the breakfast following the Bishop's Mass on Sunday morning. BOB GORE was convention cliairman. 
Those who attended from Miami included Amelia and GEORGE COURY, Mar.- K. and URBr\N KOKENGE, Florence and CHET SxVDOWSKI, Dorothy Brautigam and ^frs. Duhaim, Betty and MIKE ZOROVICH, Corinne & RICIL\RD SA­DOWSKI, Bcttv and ED KELLY, Mary and I. I. PROBST, Pat and HENRY KEEL, Mary and ED HANLEY, JR.; Bcckv and DON JARRETT, LoU and JIM SMITH, Pattv and BILL WELCH, the JACK HOUGHTEHNGS, FATHER McL.\UGH­LIN, and CHARLIE MAHER. 
Our gang distinguished ilscll in the Pingpong, Champagne, Roulette, Craps, and Statue Moving contests; and registered as also-rans in the putting, shuflleboard, horseshoes and assorted sports; a fc^v got their bathing suits wet and nobody ^^-as late for the meals and cocktail parties. The Keel-Goren system was tried, redoubled and hung on the third day . . . Kelly displayed phenomenal finesse as an "ox-cnecr" and as a second story artiste, proving that the door "ain't been made" that the ol rev­oooner can't get thru. The Court's put on an­other of their famous coffee-breaks in the wee small hours following the dance. The UK camera service recorded numerous scheduled and unsched­uled events. 
The May meeting, held at the University Club, featured "Blaze" five-card game of skill by Wilson, Streeter, Keel, Rcilly, Lyons and Welch. ActiWties for the remainder of the year were discussed and committees were assigned as follows: Annual Pic­nic, JOHN THORNTON, chmn., scheduled for late August; Sweepstakes, DAN ROWLANDS, chmn.. sclieduled for September; Christmas Party, JLM SMITH, chmn., scheduled for December. 
,\ vote of supreme confidence was registered as to the preference of the University- Club as a meet­ing place, and Silent Sen. Sadowski made some prodigious promises about his endorsement of the Urmcy "mcetin'housc" . . . JIM BOYLE was re­miniscent of the da>'s Badin Hall was the cross­roads of N.D. life. Your Club is making arrange­ments for a showing at one of the coming meetings of the film, "Rockne at Notre Dame." 
The June meeting featured a joint venture where­in the Notre Dame Club and the University Club joined in an e\'ening of open bar buffet, and an interesting program arranged for By our Club under the direction of BILL WELCH, program chairman for the evening. The University Club with Prc3sy Art Sells handily arranged for us to join their stag bar and buffet with some fifty of their mem­bers, which was to precede Rocky Marciano and a 
beer smoker. Due to an emergency trip north at 
the last minute by Rocky, a revised program was 
quickly put together by Chairman Welch, which 
featured Clint McGcarv*, manager of Rocky, who-
brought a fine film of the Marciano-Moore fight, 
and xvho gave a nice talk on the only undefcatcrf 
ex-lica\-y^vciglit boxing champion. There were an 
estimated forty plus NDcrs on hand. 
Our heartiest congratulations to Dan and Dee Rowlands, who have just added another candidate for the Notre Dame roster of 1979, Douglas Row­lands, born June 5 at Doctor's Hospital. Father^ Mother and baby are all doing fine! 
Midland-Odessa 
H. BYRNE O'NEILL succeeded JOHN BUCK­LEY as president of the N.D . Club of Midland-Odessa after a highly successful U.N.D. Night deep in the heart of Texas, featuring athletic director ED KR.\USE. 
Milwaukee 
JOHN LINNEHAN, '40. of Wauwatosa, Wis.,, succeeded WALTER O. SCHNEIDER as president of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee after elec­tions on July 15. Other new officers are JOHN ^\^LKINSON, '56, «ce-president; THOMx\S HER­M.\N, '57, secretary, and CHr\RLES O'BRIEN, '55. treasurer, all of Milwaukee. 
Mohawk Valley 
The annual Mohawk Valley Club picnic was held under rather adverse conditions (doesn't It always happen?) on June 17 at Twin Ponds Golf and Coun­try Club in New York Mills. .-Mthough it was pretty damp on the outside, we were able to move the "picnic" inside. More than 30 faithful tiuned out (or in), the food and drinks and ourselves stayed dry, and ever>'onc who attended seemed to have a real fine time. CRVRLIE HIT2ELBER­GER, '32, was chairman of the affair and did a. good job in taking care of everything but the weather. 
/Vmong those who attended was FR.ANK H-AC­KETT, 'II, who has supplanted FR.ANK OTT, *22, as the "elder statesman" of the dub. 
"SLEEPY JIM" CROWXEY %v-as in the area just: prior to the picnic to act as main speaker at an athletic banquet in honor of the Utica CathoHc: Academy High School basketball and baseball-squads. He did a rcollv terrific job, as did emcce-CHARLIE HIT2ELBERGER, '32. Among those-who turned out for this affair and to wish Jim well were FRANK DONALTY, '32; ED S^VEE­NEY, '30; LOUIE CLARK, 'St, and KEN MUR­PHY, '54 (along u-ith his dad, who is one of the-leading subw-ay alumni). 
FELIX (PHIL) AQUINO, '50, a teacher at Keman School in Utica, ^*•as a recipient of the-Utica newspapers' scholarship w-hich enabled him to attend a Sj-racusc University workshop on "The­Ncu*5papcr in the Classroom." 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 2959 37' 
ED RE;\GAX, '42, Is in line for congratulations on his recent appointment to tlic presidency of the Mohawk Valley Chapter of the Society of Indus­trial Engineers. 
Tlie club is mourning the passing of the mother of ED SWEEXEY, *30. who was 89 veare voung. —KE.N -MURPHY, '54,' Sec}-. 
Naugatuck Valley 
Xcxv officers of Xaugatuck Valley Club are AL­FRED E. SULLIV,\N, '32, Watcrbur^-, president; JACK TATIGAX, '58, Milford, vice-president; NOR­BERT HEXEBRY, '40, Waterburs-, secretar>-, and JAMES SCIGLIAXO, "42, Waterbury, treasurer. 
Nebraska (Omaha & Council Bluffs) 
The Xotrc Dame Club of Omalia and Council Bluffs held its Universal Notre Dame Night ban­quet on Sunday, April 5, 1959, The follou-ing offi­cers were installed for the coming year: WILLIAM SEIDLER, '52, Omalia, president; ROBERT BER­RY, '51, Omaha, vice president; D. HUGHES WIL­COX, '52. Council Bluffs, treasurer, and WARREN YOUNGSTROM, *55, of Omaha, secretary. 
A movie on recent developments at Notre Dame followed the installation. 
Some of those attending were Mr. and Mrs. TOM WALSH, Mr. and Mrs. HENRY RODGERS, Mr. and Mrs. J. E. ROOT, Mr. and Mrs. JERRY KEL­LY, Mr. an Mrs. ROBERT ROHLING, Mr. and Mrs. HERB SAMPSON, JACK McCOUN, JIM BUCKLEY, J. L. SIGLER, BOB WEAR, TOM KINSLER, FRANK ^\'EAR, GORDON BERQUIST and guests Mr. and Mrs. Charles D\v\-cr. 
—WARREN YOUNGSTROM, *55, Sec>-. 

New Jersey 
Se\cnty-five New Jerscjites turned out for the election of officers and the annual Alumni Club Golf Outing June 2 at the Glen Kidge Counto'. Club. 
Despite a heavy rain that nearly washed out the affair, alwut 25 die-hard duffers surv'ived the 18­hole test and were later revived at the 19th hole in the clubhouse. 
ANGELO BERTELLI, '43, more noted for his long passes, played golf, awarded the prizes (one to himself) and acted as toastmasler of the dinner. BRUCE DOLD, '53. perennial chairman of the event, was elected club treasurer for the coming year at the annual election meeting which followed the pot roast. 
Besides Dold, the other officers elected were: BILL KIRCHXER, '51, president; JOE McKEON, '40, vice-president, and JACK SAND, '54, secre­tary. All will serve one year terms. Kirchner, a lawyer, replaced outgoing prex>' JOHN KELLY, *40, an investigator. Question is — who's watching who? 
Some of the waterlogged winners of the golf match were: JOE SCULLY and BRUCE DOLD. low gross; JOE BYRNE III and GEORGE WENZ, 2nd low gross; Dold again, longest drive: HANK KUNZE, closest to the pin on the eighth hole, and JOHN PAGAN, closest on the 13th; GENE DEAN, best dressed; JOE McKEON, worst dressed; BOB RICKER, biggest duffer; JOE O'TOOLE, biggest griper; BOB JOYCE, shortest drive; FRJ\N K TRIPUCKA, short hitter; BUNKY REG/\N, big swinger; JOHN SKUDRIS, scourge of the greens-keeper; JIM SEBOLD, crime of soliciting business during round; BERTELLI, sneaking a nip between ninth and tenth holes and par busters, Bvme, BILL WALDRO.N and JACK LONG. 
Prizes were contributed bv JACK QUINN, JER­RY HAYES, BILL RILEY, PETE QUINN, GEORGE KEENAN, JOHN KELLY, and Messrs. Waldron, Joyce, Sebold, Fagan, Dean, Tripucka, Bertelli, Dold, Wenz and Long, all of whom won at least one award ranging from golf balls to \-itamin pills. 
Other New Jersey Club .Vlumni members at­tending tlie affair were BILL DEGNEN, PETE LU5ARDI, DON LUSARDI, JIM BOHEM, HAR­MON WADE, DR. JERRY HAYES, TOM KRUG, PETE REGAN, Ray TROY, JOHN A\'INBERRY, FRANK MATT, BILL DONOVA.X, JI.M BRES­LIN. HANK BORDA, BOB McKEE, DAN O'­NEILL, GEORGE PLAIN, BOB LARKIN, LEO COSTELLO, GENE CODEY, JERRY DeROSA, DICK O'DONNELL, HARRY STEVENSON and ED VON HOENE. There were probably others hho sneaked in later, but we failed to get their oames. 
JACK SAND, '54, Secy. 

38 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
NEW JERSEY—Luminaries at the Jersey Club's U.N.D. Night dinner in West Orange included: (1. to r.) George Plain, chairman; Club President John F. Kelly; Harvey Foster, i special agent in charge of the New York FBI office; Rev. llionias Fahy, Seton Hall Uni­versity athletic director; Joe Kuharich, N:D. head football coach; Rev. Chester Soleta, C.S.C., 
N.D. vice-president for academic affairs, and Hugh Devore, freshman football coach. 
New York 
The Club followed up U.N.D. Night with two of its most successful smokers on May 13 and 14. Tlie first, sponsored by the Long Island Chapter was held at the Garden City Hotel. The principal speaker was JOE KUHARICH who made an excel­lent impression on the crowd of over 300, not­withstanding his guarded prognosis for the future. Chaiiman AL LESMEZ, his Committee, and the Chapter ofHcers did an excellent job. 
Tiic second smoker, sponsored by the Westches­ter Chapter, was held at the Westchester Country' Club. Another crowd in excess of 300 heard JOE KUHARICH and MALCOLM WILSON, Acting Governor of the Stale of New York. JOE DUR­KIN and his Committee likewise did a particularly outstanding job. 
One of the Club's most worthwhile endeavors has been its Scliolarship Trust Fund. The Com­mittee, cliairmanncd bv DAN HIGGINS, JR., is comprised of BILL FUGAZ\\ TOOTS SHOR, BILL FALLON, RICHARD REID, FRANCIS FEE, JAMES .MULVEY, GEORGE HORN, HAROLD MARSHALL, CLAUDE CARTIER, and JAMES 
FORT LAUDERDALE —Club President Callan presents Man-of-the-Year award to Frank McDonough (center) as Father Joyce looks on. 
SHEILS, secretarv*. The Committee selected THOMAS HALE MORROW of St. Francis Prep and Forest Hills, and STEPHEN McMAHON of Seton Hall H. S. and Rockville Centre, as this year's winners. 
The Club has found it increasingly difficult to 
raise the necessar>* funds for the scliolarships and 
is exploring the possibility of using new media for ^ 
this purpose, c.g., theater party, director^', etc. ­
The annual golf outing, under the chairmanship 
of FLO .MCCARTHY, HOWIE FAHEY, and GOR­
DON FORESTER, was Iicid on June 30 at the 
Leewood Golf Club. It was followed by, appro­
priately enough, a corned beef and cabbage dinner. 
There were prizes galore for golfers and non-golfers. 
(JACK HOYT , a former Club President, is now 
President of Leewood.) Details next issue. 
Tlie annual beach party, sponsored by the Long Island Chapter, was held on July 15 at Gilgo Beach (details also forthcoming). This is a par­ticularly popular affair inasmuch as it is strictly for the familv. Tills year's chairman is JOHN MARTIN. 
—AHLLIA.M V. CUDDY, Sco". Q 

Philadelphia 
On May 22 a happy throng of friends gathered at the Barclay Hotel to congratubtc CHx\RLES yi. DOUGHERTY, '26. on his appointment by Governor Lawrence as Sccretarv* of Revenue for the Commonwealth of Pennsv'Ivania. The occasion was "Charlie Doughei^y Day," an informal testimonial luncheon honoring Charlie, one of the Philly Club's favorite sons. R.VY BRODERICK promoted tickets on a committee consisting of co-Ctiairman CHAR­LEY CONLEY, TO.M MATTHEWS, JACK DE.MP­SEY, BUD DUDLEY, BILL WHITESIDE, CHAR-Q LIE McKINNEY and CLIFF PRODEHL, lunch-con chairman. Also on the program were Club President JOHN MOORHE/\D and BILL GREE.V, who introduced "Charlie." 
Cliff was also cliairman of the gala Philadelphia Club Outing and Clam Bake June 20 at the Com­mercial Club, Port Indian, on the Skuylkill River. Tlic picnic featured chicken, lobster tails, beer, dancing, movies, etc Charlie Conley was in charge of a drawing for an all-cxpense trip to the Southern Cal-N.D. game. 
Phoenix 
Elected in the spring as oflicers of the Xotrc 0 / Dame Club of Pliocnbc were: DR. DALE H. STAN­NARD, '45, president; EDMUND P. CLtVRY, '43, secretarj-; ROBERT D. KENDALL, '31, «cc prcsi­
dent, and ED W. MURPHY, '37. treasurer. 
Trustees arc as follows: JOHN G. O'.MALLEY, .JR.; E. J. HILKERT and JOSEPH E. HORRI­>GAN. 
—CHARLES H. BARTLETT, JR., former Si-c>-. 

Pittsburgh 
Tlic Pittsburgh Club's happiest summer function was the Father and Son Baseball Night on August 
14. for the assembled dads and lads saw the Pirates edge the visiting champion Milwaukee Braves 2-1. The diinier and group attendance at the game was under the capable chainnanship of JOHX VUONO. 
BILL MEYER and TOM XOURIE liavc been in charge of tickets for a drawing on an all-expense week end on campus for the Na\y game. 
The annual golf party will be held on September 

\ 16. 1959. SMOKEY COYNE once again has made the arrangements and furtlicr information will be distributed to members. 
—DONALD W. BEBENIK, Secy. 

Rochester 
The Notre Dame Club of Rodicstcr held its an­nual summer meeting on August 2 with a family t>-pe picnic at secluded Corbett's Glen, supplying games, prizes, beverages and hot charcoal for do-it­yourself barbccucrs. Handling arrangements were JACK BURKE, LEE WESLEY and JOHN SQOTT. 
September events include the Fall Dance (VIC DcSIMON and TOM MURR.\Y, co-chairmen), Golf at Oak Hill (J. WILLIAM REEVES in 
• charge) and distribution of chances on the sold-out Northwestern game of October 24. And next April, by real advance planning. Athletic Director ED KRAUSE is booked as the U.N.D. Night speaker. 
Rockford 
The Notre Dame Club of Rockford, 111., has the distinction of being the only N. D. Club to ob­ser\'c the 36th annivcrsar>' of Universal Notre Dame Night (traditionally held in the Easter sea­son) in the middle of the summer. 
On Tuesday, June 30, REV. THOMxVS J. O*­DONNELL, C.S.C., associate director of the N. D. Foundation, was guest speaker. 
At a meeting back in February the following 

• officers xvere elected: WILLIAM H. LICHTEN­BERGER, '50, of Frecport, president; and from Rockford. THOMAS A. KEEG/\N and GEORGE O'LEARV, JR., first and second vice presidents, respectively; RICHARD L. WILLSON, secretar>% and ALBERT CARROLL, treasurer. We have a ver>' active schedule planned for this year, including two baseball trips to Milwaukee and a trip to the campus for a football game. In June we planned a golf stag at Forest Hills Countr>' Club in Rockford, followed by another golf stag at the Frecport Country Club in July. L. W. CONDON, JR., of Rockford and DR. F. J. LOW­NIK of Frecport arc co-chairmen for the two event}.. 
^ —RICHARD L. WILLSON, '58, Scc>-. 
Rome 
Another N. D. man has come to live in Rome: CHRIS W. COCHRANE, M6, of Toledo, Ohio. Chris is selling jeeps for Will\-s all over the Near East. He is now second \1cc President of our Rome Club. 
Circumstances made us forego N. D. Night this year but an affair — in character — is being plan­ned for the fall wlicn our prcx\', Jerry /Vshley of Detroit, will come over to 6rm up plans for the first N. D. ^Vlumni Pilgrimage to Rome next spring (inquire of the Alumni office for dctaib). 
A N. D.ers nsiting Rome: Afrs. Charles Hickman, 
" office sccrctar>' of the N. D. Chicago Club with Mrs. Loretta Tennes. Mrs. Hickman reminded us of her brother JOE MERRION, '20, and her three 
N.D. sons: Charles, '58; William, '59; Thomas, '63. DAVE HICKEY, '27, and wife from Los Gatos, Cal.; Mr. and ^^rs. JEROME CROWLEY, *3I, from South Bend; Dr. and Mrs. FR.\NK MURPH\% '42, of .\tarion, O.; CHARLES CUSHWA, JR., '56, of Youngstown, Ohio; JOHN KENNEDY, '56, Mr. and Mrs. RAY GEIGER, '32, editor of the famous Farmer's /Vlmanac, of Lewiston. Mc., where he is president of the ^^ainc N. D. Club; ROBERT HALLEIN, '43, Branch Manager of Atlantic Alumi­num in Cleveland; JIM BRENNAN, '56. of Aber­deen, Wash., traveling with NICK MAVIGLL\NA, 
• '56, of River Forest, 111.; RAY SMITH, '53, of Chicago, here to participate in international tennis tournaments. Earl Englert, '44, and \vitc of Louis­ville, Ky.; Mr. and Mrs. LARRY KROHA of De­troit, reporting on their N. D. sons, John, '59 and 
HOUSTON—They grow 'em big in Texas, it seems, as Man-of-the-Year Paul Doylc (holding plaque) is congratulated (from left) by Larrj* Kelley, new president of the Houston Club; a curiously dwarfed "Moose" Krause, and Leighton Young, out­going president, on U.N.D. Night. 
Bob, '62. FATHER HERM/VN REITH, C.S.C., of the Philosophy Dept., N. D. '38. 
Other "subwa>'" members visiting club registered for: ED SCHROETER, '39, of Cleveland; BOB EDMONDSON, '51, of N.Y.C.; ALEX BUECH­LER, '34, of Bakersficia, Calif.; BOB FORDE. '50, of San Francisco. Calif.; Notre Dame rooters from Fort Wayne, Fathers Ralph Larson and Ray Balzer. 
The prize package, this time, was encountering a Mrs. ALFRED H. DAVIDSON of Fort Worth, Texas; her deceased husband played the piccolo in the N. D. Minim band in 1896. 
—VINCE McALOON, '34, Scc>-.-Treas. 

Saginaw Valley 
Installed April 6, the new officers of the Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club are GEORGE WARD, '40, Bay City, Mich., president, succeeding VIN­CENT T. BOYLE; WILLIAM G. HURLEY, '25, of Saginaw, vice president, and JAMES ALBERT­SON, '43, Bay Citv. Scr\-ing on the Board are JOSEPH FRISKE, CHARLES LEN2, WILLIAM HOUSE, ALOIS SCHNEIDER and VINCE BOYLE. 
C/\RL DOOZAN, Foundation chairman, has agreed to double as permanent membership chair­man, in charge of membership lists, rosters, changes of address, etc. 
St. Joseph Valley 
The Notre Dame golf course swarmed with South Bend area duffers for the Valley Club's favorite warm weather event, the annual Golf Day. Neither Club officers nor coaches nor kibitzers broke the security about scores over the buffet dinner. DICK RILEY was chairman of the June 24 affair. 
The second annual Family Picnic was well at­tended by young and old on August 20. BILL GIB­BONS was chairman, assisted by BURNIE BAUER. 
South Jersey 
At a recent meeting of the Notre Dame Club of South Jerse\-, the following officers \vere elected for the year 1959-60: THOM.\S J. AUCHTER, '50, Haddonfield, N. J., president; FRANK E. VIT­TORI, '49, Collingswood, N.J., vice president, and JOHN J. CH.ASE, Collingswood, secretar>*-treasurer. 
—ROBERT W. NICKOL, '37, retiring Pres. 

Spokane 
Some members of the Notre Dame Club of Spo­kane, under the leadership of FRJVNK Hf\GEN­B.ARTH, '27, Chairman of Religious Activities Com­mittee, took part in a closed retreat over the week­end of May 8. The new diocesan Immaculate Heart Retreat House on Moran Prairie was the scene of the retreat and Father Edward Jennings, C.Ss.R., was tlie retreat master. Those taking part are en­thusiastic over their experience and it is expected that their enthusiasm \vi|l make the attendance at the next Club retreat more satisfactorj-. 
The Summer Acti\-itics Committee, in charge of FR/\NK HERRON, '35, are arranging for a get-together at one of the nearby lakes during the summer. 
—JOE W^\LSH, '14, Sccy-Trcas. 

Syracuse (See Central New York) 
Toledo 
The officers of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo for the 1959-60 Club year \vere elected by the Board of Directors some time ago and took ofiBce at our Universal Notre Dame Night dance the lat­ter part of May. The new officers are as follows: RICHARD J. KOPF, '49, president; JOHN C KELLEHER, '40, Wee president; LEE W. ^URA, '49, sccretar>-, and PAUL M. KRAUS, '54, treas­urer. 
Trt-Cities 
At the Club's annual Notre Dame Breakfast, which was held on April 19 in the Empire Room of the Blackhawk Hotel, Davenport, Iowa, the fol­lowing officers and directors were elcctetl for the coming year: DR. ROBERT J. FOLEY, '46, Dav­enport, president; JEROME S. CULLIGAN, '31, Rock Island, III., vice president, and JOIW L. BUSH, '52, Bcttendorf, Iowa, Secrctarv'-Trcasurer; to the board, ROBERT C. CORYN, THOMAS BRITT, THOMAS A. EMMA, FRANK C. ARENA, and R. A. BUSH. 
—R. A. (MIKE) BUSH, '49. 

Washington, D. C. 
The Washington N. D. Club held its first annual Retreat June 5-7 at Loyola on the Potomac with BILL MIDDENDORF in charge of arrangements. .•\nd on Monday, August 3, the annual golf outing was held at Kenwood Country Club. Both mem­bers and guests were invited to partidpate in an afternoon of golf followed by cocktails, dinner and the awarding of prizes. 
Western Washington 
Wc neglected to mention that DON SULLIVAN was chairman of the successful U.NJ). Night fea­turing REV. HOWARD KENNA, C.S.a, presi­dent of Portland University, on May 25. 
A "Big Buck" Smoker and Poker Party was held at the College Club in Seattle on July 13. The. only business involved' was a discussion of a possible trip to Berkeley, Calif., for the N. D.-Cali­fornia game. AL TOTH was the smoker chair­man, assisted by President TED CUMMINGS. 
Wichita 
The Notre Dame Club of Wichita obser\'ed Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at a dinner held at the Allis Hotel. Guest speakers were the Most Rever­end Patrick J. Halloran, S. J., President of Gh^i­lain Kapaun Memorial High School in ^Vtchita and Mr. RICHARD BOWES, '38, Assodaie Director of the Notre Dame Foundation. The speakers were introduced by the president, TED JOCHEMS, '40. Thirty-five members and guests were in attendance. 
A Communion Breakfast was held by the Club at St. Francis Hospital Chapel last December 7. Msgr. William Schaefers celebrated the Mass and spoke briefly at the breakfast. 
—WILLIAM P. CALLAHAN, JR., M.D., Secy. 

Wyoming 
A brand new alumni organization began in CaS' per, AVyo-, last fall under the guiding hand of ROBERT A. .MEYER, '41. After several meetings the Notre Dame alumni started what they hope will become an annual event in Casper. The group met .April 7 for a vcr>' fine celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night at the Riverside Club in Casper. Bob Me\*er was general chairman of the event. 
Wyoming has never had an alumni club despite the fact that the Notre Dame men in our state arc some of Wyoming's outstanding citizens. Lack of numerical strength, not lack of spirit, has been responsible. Our club can only succeed through a continuation of this spirit, since we still are few in number. Casper is the largest city in Wyoming an the most important economically. Our U.N.D. Night dinner was the only public relations action ever taken on the University's behalf. AVe recdved very good local publicit>- in press an radio and state-wide publicity with a story in the diocesan paper. 
Club members include CHARLES A. GEHRES, 

WILLIAM GREEN, RICHARD L. HODGES, 
PAUL E. KEMPTER, \L\URICE D. LANDERS, 
J. F. MAHONEY, PATRICK H. MEFJfAN. ROB­ERT R. MEYER, LEE E. MILLER, DR. JOSEPH 
P. MURPHY, VICTOR METHA.\LMER, ADIUAN PADON, ROBERT STUDER and ROBERT A. TRIPENY. 
—PATRICK H. MEENAN, '49, AcUng Secy. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 39 
F. EARL LAMBOLEY, '29, died ifarch 9. Mr. Lamboley, an attomej*, is sur\*ived by his wife who resides at 2202 Fifteenth Street, Monroe, Wis. 
HENRY J. CLARK, '30, died June 12. Sun-ivors># 
Engagements 

Miss Marj- Jean Batal and ROBERT P. MORAN, '48. Miss Judith Ann Bower and DR. J.\MES J. CAR­
BERRY, '30. Miss Carol Law and CHARLES W. ALLEN, '54. Miss Ma^^• Ann Colcraan and HARRY C. H.\-
GERTi", JR., '52. Miss Dorothy Ann Gillespie and DOXX B. DUF­FY, '55. Miss Maureen T. Walsh and JAMES J. CRE­
NHXS, '56. Miss ^tar^• Rcid and ROBERT M. MILLER, '5G. Miss Mar>- F. Yankiss and CHARLES P. GOR­
DOX, '57. Miss Helen Jackowski and JAMES HEXEGHAX, '57­Miss XancN- Ellen Canning and EDWARD H. SHALHOUB, '58. Miss Marv Adricnnc Chaplcau and WALTER T. WOLF, '58.' 
Marriages 

Miss Maria T. Rodriguez and ROBERT V. CLEARY, JR., '49, Flint, Mich., Jan. 17, 1959. Miss GIsella Csenar and EDMUND J. PROBST, '50, South Bend, Ind., April II, 1959. Miss Maril>-n D. Friel and ALLAN J. POWERS, '51, Notre Dame, Ind., June 27, 1959. Miss Sheila Ana Smith and DR. JOHX E. KEL­LY, JR., '52, S>Tacusc, N.Y., June 27, 1959. Miss Karen Butler and WILLIAM J. MORLEY, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., June 20, 1959. Miss Sondra Sickles and JAMES J. PHELAN, '33, Ncu- York, N.Y., June 23, 1939. Miss Ellzabctli F. Doyle and CHRISTOPHER E. ECKL, '56, Proridencc, R. I., Dec 28, 1958. Miss Phyllis R. Shonbom and JOHN A. RAC-CASl, '56, South Bend, Ind., June 8, 1959. Miss Bcmadinc >L Sellers and EDWARD W. RECHNER, '36, Chicago, 111., June 20, 1959. 
Miss Julia A. Furlong and FR.ANK X. ATKIN­SON, '57, St. Mary's, PennsvK-ania, June 20, 1959. Miss Mary Sharon Holland and PATRICK C. 
LOGAN, '57, Notre Dame, Ind., June 13, 1959. Miss Rita Marie Cassella and ROBERT F. JONES, '58, Union, N. J., June 13, 1959. Miss Delphinc Konkc and M. JERRY HALLO­RAN, '59, South Bend, Ind., June 13, 1959. Miss Margaret L. Pinter and DAVID A. HOSLV­SKI, '59, South Bend, Ind., June 20, 1959. Miss Judith A. Walter and JAMES W. KEE.VAN, '59, South Bend, Ind., June G, 1959. Miss Margaret Kohlbrenner and LT. PETER E. KRESS, '39, Xotrc Dame, Ind., June 27, 1939. Miss Janice E. Green and FRANCIS J. LAVAL­LE, '39, St. Joseph, Mich., June 6, 1939. Miss Patricia J. Mark and LT. JOHX ^L LED­DE.N, USAF, '59, South Bend, Ind., June 13, 1959. 
Births 

Mr. and Mis. FRED LADKY, '42, a daughter, April 19. Mr. and Mrs. WILBUR F. DOLL, '44, a daugh­ter, Joanne Marie, June 16. Mr. and Mrs. JOHX ^L HENRY, '47, a son, Tliomas Edward, April 27. Mr. and Mrs. VERXON D. McARDLE, '47, a daughter, in Mav, Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD SIMMONS, '49, a daughter, Susan Elizabeth, June 9. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS S. RIORD.\N, '50, a son, John Matthew, Mav I. Mr. and ilrs. DON J. SCHULTHEIS, '50, a daughter, ^lav 6. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. RAY.MOXD, '52, a daughter, ^lonica, in June. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD F. COXDON, '53, a son, Thomas Michael, Mav 3. Mr. and Mn. ALFRED C. DeCR.ANE, JR., '33, a daughter, Stacie Elizabeth, Jidv 6. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. FINK, '33, a son, Rob­ert Paul, Jtme 15. Mr. and Mra. PATRICK J. MONTROY, '53, a son, Joseph Bates, April 27. Mr. and Mrs. MILTON BEAUDINE, '54, a daughter, Katherine Marie, May 17. 
•40 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Mr. and -Mrs. GEORGE J. DOLAK III, '54, a daughter, Laurie Ann, April 23. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN PIGOTT, '54, a daughter, Mary Barbara, June 20. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD .A. ROSENTHAL, '54, a son, John AVilllam, April 29. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. McAULIFFE, '55, a son, Robert Emmctt. Jr., February 21. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES T. HE^V^T, '56, a daughter, Kim Marie, May 28. 
Deaths 

ROBERT LYNCH, '03, a former coacli for the Notre Dame baseball team, died in Green Bay, Wis., on May 1. ^fr. Lynch also coached at Northwestern University, Northwestern Academy and Clemson. He also played in and managed professional baseball with clubs in the old Wisconsin-Illinois League, the American Association and the Western, Eastern and Southern Leagues. "Sir. Ly-nch was active in church and ci\ic afTairs and ser%'ed for twenty years as an assembl\Tiian in the Wisconsin State Legislature. He was twice cliosen **Man of the Year*' by tlic Green Bay Notre Dame Alumni Club. He is survived by his wife, a daughter, three sons and ten grand­diildrcn, 
RT. REV. MSGR. \\aLLIAM P. BURKE, '08, died on Sept. 21, 1938, according to information received recently. Msgr. Burke was ordained on June 9, 1900, and scr\-ed as pastor of Visitation Parish, Kewanee. III., for 38 vears. 
ULRIC J. RUELL, '11, died July 9 in Hol­yoke, Mass., according to word received in the Alumni Office. A monogram winner, he played professional baseball and was a veteran of AVorld War II. 
DONALD M. HAMILTON, '12, former Notre Dame football and baseball star, died at his home in Columbus, Ohio, on June 2. Mr. Hamilton, a wcll-knou-n Big Ten football oflicial, retired from the active practice of law several years ago. Sur­\ivors include a son, Donald, Jr., who is also a Big Ten football ofHcial. 
WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, '13, former con­gressman and retired court judge, died May 28 at his home in Springfield, Mass. Mr. Granfield was active in politics from 1915 until his retirement be> cause of illness in 1949. Wliilc at Notre Dame he captained the baseball team. Survii'ors include his wife, two sons, a daughter, two brothers, four sis­ters and four grandcliildren. 
CIL\RLES a KOONT2, SR., M3, died June 30. Sur\-ivors include his wife who resides at 408 North Plum Street, Union Citv, Ind. 
MAURICE J. McERLAIN, '14, died May 25 in Fort Myers, Fla. A former resident of South Bend, Mr. McErlain was an associate of the architectural firm of Charles W. Cole and Son. He is sunivcd by his wife, his stepmother and a sister. 
HARDY J. BUSH, JR., '15. Las Vegas, Nev., died ^^ay 13. Mr. Bush served as a first lieutenant during World ^\'a^ I. Surx'ivors include two sons and a daughter. 
ARTHUR F. FAR\\1CK, '20, field deput>- for the Industrial Commission of Ohio, died July I in Canton, Ohio. A veteran of World ^Var I, Mr. Farwick was a member of the Canton Post of the American Legion and the Notre Dame Alumni Club. He is survived by his 'wife, a daughter, a son, his mother, four sisters and six grandchildren. 
CHARLES H. McDONOUGH, '21, Hartford, Conn., insurance executive, died at his home in June. Mr. ^IcDonough was active in politics for many years and also served as a director of the Connecticut Institute for the Blind. He is survi\*ed by his \rife, three sons, t%vo brothers and a sister. 
DR. FRANCIS L. KENNEDY, '25, died June 13 according to information received in the Alumni Of­fice. Survivx)!: include his widow who resides at 634 North Grand BouIc\'ard, St. Louis 3, Missouri. 
BROTHER XAVIER DONOGHUE, C.S.C., '2C, died June 12 at Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, 
III. He also taught in New Orleans, La., Albany, N.Y., and Fort Wayne, Ind. He is sur^ved by two sisters. 
CLYDE G. ATCHINSON, '29, died April 27, 1937, according to information just received from his father. 
include his wife who resides at 17421 Quincy Ave­
nue, Detroit, Mich. 
DR. RICHARD C. BENKENDORF, '31, died in Januar>', according to information received in the Alumni Office. Dr. Bcnkcndorf is sumvcd by his wife and seven children. 
JOHN J. O'CONNOR, JR., '34, died ifarch 24. Survivors include his wife and cliildrcn ^vho reside at 1600 St. Louis Avenue, Kansas City, Mo. 
HAROLD D. SPORL, SR., '34, died May 18. A prominent New Orleans businessman, Mr. Sporl was \-icc-president of C. A. Sporl and Co., Inc., an insurance brokerage firm. He is sur\'ived by his widow, a son, a daughter and a brother, C. A. SPORL, JR., '28. ^ 
ALEX L. SLO.VN, '37, died June 16. Survivors ^ include a broUicr, JOHN F. SLOx\N, '33. 
LUKE J. TIERN/\N, '37, former president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, died May 15. He is survived by his wife, a son and three daughters. DAVID B. MONCRIEF, '41, Charleston, W. Va., died April 27. Mr. Moncricf was a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, tlic Holy Name Society, the Knights of Columbus and the Notre Dame Alumni Club. Sur\'ivors include his wife, one son, two daughters and his father. 
JOHN S. FORSTER, *47, operations manager and assisti^it secrctar>'-treasurer of the Crandon Wliole­sale Drug Co., Coral Gables, Fla., died in June. He is surx'ivcd by his wife, a son, his parents, a -^ brother and a sister. ^ 
WILLIAM J. RILEY, '53, died May 11. Sur­\-ivors include his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Riley, who reside at 6839 Crandon, Chicago, 111. 
ROBERT M. STILL, '54, died Marcli 27. At the time of his death he was employed with the De­partment of tlic Army as a clicmical engineer. He is sur\-ivcd by his mother, Mrs. Irene Still, who re­sides at 346 Garrity Road, San Antonio, Texas. 
WILLIAM P. BYRNE, '55, was killed in a plane crash on May 30. He was serving with the Marine Corps at the time of his death. Survivors include his parents, Mr. and Mrs. William P. B>Tne, Sr., of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, his vrifc and a daughter. 
JOHN T. HARTLEY, JR., '58, died April 18, ac­cording to word received from his parents, Mr. and —>. Mrs. John Bartlc>*, who reside at 415 Santa Cruz Road, Arcadia, Calif. 
ROBERT L. CUNNINGHAM, *58, was killed in an automobile accident near Tlircc Rivers, Midi., on July 11. His parents and a younger sister were also killed. Survivors include a sister, Mrs. Evelyn Green of Detroit, and two brothers, Ricliard John, '50, Oak Park, 111., and Darid, Bridgeport, Conn. 
WILLLVM F. R.\CIL\C, JR., '58, was killed in the crash of a plane near Moore .^Vir Base, Mission, Texas, on May 28. Survivors include his wife, who resides at 300 Central Avenue, Soutli, New Prague, Minn. 
RT. REV. MSGR. THO.Mx\S V. SH.\NNON, pastor of St. Mary's Church, Lake Forest, III., died ^lay 25. Msgr. Shannon received an honorary ^ doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1921. 
GERARD E. GR^VF, assistant professor of biology at Notre Dame, died June 20 after a brief illness. Before coming to Notre Dame he taught at Io\%'^ State College and from 1936 to 1958 was a researdi fdlow of tlie American Cancer Society at the Insti­tute of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy, Univer­sity of Zuricli, Suitzerland. He is survived by his uidow and his parents. 
Sympathy 

C. p. J. MOONEY, JR., '21, on the death of his mother. May 9, 1959. ^^ 
C. A. SPORL, JR., '28, on the death of his W brother. May 18. JOHN J- WALLrVCE, '28, on the death of his wife, June 8, 1939. JOHN F. SLO.VN, '33, on the death of his brother, June 16. WILLIAM B. MADDEN, '42, on the death of his mother. May 15, 1939. JOHN a QUINLAN, '48, on the death of his father, June 9, 1959. 
FRANCIS J. WOLF. '48, on the death of his father, April 2, 1959. 
R. JOHN CUNNINGHAM, '50, on the death of his parents and brother, July 9. JOHN J. CHAVANNE, '52, on the death of his mother, September 6, 1958. WN JOSEPH A. MORIARITY, '52, on the death of ^ his son, ifay 18, 1959. 
EDWARD J. WILSON, JR., '57. on the death of his wife. May 23, 1959. 
50-YEAR CLUB 

» 
From Green Bay, Vfls., comes word from the re­cent widow and family of ROBERT" E. LYNCH, '03. Green Bay's oldest and most distinguished alumnus, Mr. Lynch died May 1. He was a baseball star and coadi at N. D., coached at Northwestern and Clcm­son and played semi-pro and minor league base­ball. A Wisconsin Democratic asscmbl>'man for 20 years, Mr. L\-nch was responsible for a great deal of the state's progressive legislation. He received the Green Bay N. D. Club's Man-of-the-Ycar award twice in the last ten years. Mrs. Lynch wTote: **He had great devotion to Our Blessed Afothcr all his life, and she really took care of him," referring to his short, painless illness. "He was a promoter for her Miraculous Afcdol. . . had enrolled about 1500 people and had them praying to her. They were 
kfrom all stations in life, none loo high or none too low for Bob to enroll them." 
HON. ERNEST E. L. HAMMER, 0'4, of New York City, recently referred by his classmate, HON. GALLITZEN A. FAR.\BAUGH, to the book, "Colonel Hoyncs of Notre Dame," in xv'hicli he was quoted by REV. THOMAS A. L.\HEY, C.S.C., wrote: "I have read the book from beginning to end with keen interest and aroused sentiments of deep emotion. Wonderful memories were reau"ak­ened by the lifelike portraj-al of the beloved but frequently student-caricatured COL. \\lLLL\if HOYNES as he marched with dignity and friend­liness across the pages, or was depicted as teacher in class, judge in moot court, orator at all pa-

I triotic celebrations and as a lox-ablc human being "on campus, in refectory and about his living quar­ters in Sorin Hall. 
"I also greatly enjoyed and u-as pleasantly moved by the tributes to the Colonel by FATHER JOHN aWANAUGH, of beloved memory, and by former students, most of whom were my own class­mates or in attendance in my time. 
"It all seemed as if we old students were gath­ered together in a conversation memorializing the wonderful events of our own student da>-s at Notre Dame. Naturally it seemed this brought forth me­mories expressed of the lo\-able, though occasionally pompous, but always loyal and friendly Colonel HoxTies. He enjoyed a place of high renown with 

I Notre Dame and we pray Our Lady has obtained f for Iiim a fitting place of rest In Ifcaven." 
1905 
Reunion Registrants 
^\^LLIA^I D. JAMIESON, DANIEL J. O'CONNOR 
1908 
Reunion Registrant VARNUM A. PARISH 
1909 

k Reunion Rci^istnuits 
'E . DOUGL.\S BONavil, REV'. RICHARD COLr.EXTINE, C.S.C., ALBERT GUSHURST, LEO H.AXXON, ALBERT T. MERTES, JOHN 
W. SCHINDLER 
1910 
Reunion Registrant CLAUDE SORG 
Froin the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to BILL SCHMITT for his new-job as president of the Notre Dame ^^onogTam Club. The Portland (Ore.) pilcdrivcr was elected to suc­

. ceed JOHN P.VNELLI, H9, on Uie eve of the 1959 
r reunions at the Monogrammers' annual meeting June 11. This development seems engineered and guaranteed to bring Bill back in triumph for the Golden Jubilee Reunion of the Class of '10 next June 10-11-12. 
Fret! L. Steers 
1911 
105 S. LaSaUc St. Chicago 3, Ullnois 
Reunion Registrant JiVSPER H. LAWTON 
From the Alumni OfHce: Word of the death of ULRIC RUELL came from 

• BILL SCHMITT, '10, « a sports pubUdst CH,Ul-LIE C-VLLAHAN, '38, at press time. Prayers ^v'ould be appreciated from classmates who viiM recall that Ulrlc made the monogram in both baseball and foot-
PHILLIP P. PITON, '28 Majoring in the Minors 
Phillip PitoHj veteran administrative offi­cial, has scrv'cd more than a quarter of a century as a quiet, behind-the-scenes execu­tive of professional baseball. 
Phil resided in Brownson Hall in 1924-25 while enrolled as a pre-law student. His career as a baseball official began \vith 15 years of close association with the profes­sional sport's first commissioner. Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis. Following re­jection as a Navy volunteer in W.^\^ II, for reasons of health, he did his stint dur­ing the war years as an examiner for the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
In 1945 and 1946, Phil ser\-ed as staff executive for the N"ationaI Patent Council and the .American Fair Trade Council, pub­lic relations organizations devoted to prescr­\'ation of the patent system and the fair trade laws. 
Early in 1947, he joined his old friend George M. Trautman as executive assistant. Trautman had been named president of the National .Association of Professional Base­ball Leagues, succeeding Judge ^Villiam Bramham. This is the administrative office of the Minor Leagues which spread across the United States, Canada, Mexico, and Cuba, as well as of seven AVinter Leagues which operate in \*arious Caribbean coun­tries. 
An authority on baseball law, Phil is the originator of many of the regulations which govern the day-to-day actixnties of the sport. Personal friend of every executive in base­ball, he works closely with each as a liaison man between the Majors and Minors. 
Phil married Mary Alice Brady of Quin­cy. 111., in 1944. They reside with their daughter, Margaret Alice, at 4458 Sellers Avenue, Coliunbus, Ohio. 
ball in 1908 and later played baseball for Philadel­phia in the National League. 
JOSEPH J. McCVFFERY, the electrical man, ^V3S not a reunion registrant but dropped in briefly from South Bend to \'tslt some of his friends at the festivities. 

191 2  ^- J- "Ben" Kaiser  
• ^  • *  604 East Tenth St.  
Berwick, Pa.  

From ttie Alumni OfHce: 
The death of DON Hr\.MfLTON of Columbus, Oliio, on June 2, ^vas a great loss to the Attmmi Association, to which his term as president w:a only-one of many contributions as a lawyer, coach and athlete. As an undergrad Don quorteHiacked the 1909 AVestem Champions and also won monograms in baseball. He played baseball for Louisville in the American Assn. and coached at Wittenburg U. before his long career as an attorney and athletic ofHcial. N. D. never had a more loyal fan. 
Aa era seemed to close as wTeckers began to dis­mantle the natatorium, headquarters of FATHER BERNARD LANGE's weight-lifting classes in thdr assault on the crumbling-but-bcloved French Quarter behind the Main Building. Father Lange is still ver>- active in quarters at the Student Infirmary. 
191 3 Paul R. Byrne 
•^• ^ 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y, 
Reimion Registrant J.V.MES W. 0'HAR.\ 
From the xVIumnl Office; 
In little over a month the Class of '13 lost two stalwarts, CILVRLES KOONTZ of Union City, Ind., and \VILLL\M GR.VNFIELD, former baseball cap­tain, who was elected in 1930 as the first Democrat in Congress from Massachusetts in 13 years and ser\'ed until 1936, when he accepted an appoint­ment as judge In Springfield, Mass. 
Ron O'Neill 
1914 
1350 N. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Ind. 
Walter L. Clements (Acting Secretary) 
623 Park Avenue 
South Bend 16, Indiana 
Reunion Registrants \\^\LTER L. CLEMENTS, T^VO.\fEY CLIFFORD, THO^L\S B. CURRY, J.VMES S. DEVLIN, ^V. POYNTELLE DOWNING. SINfEON T. FLAN­XAGEN, FRED W. GUSHURST, EDUTN J. L.\RNEL, RONALD S. O'NEILL, CHARLES L. VAUGHxXN, JOSEPH N. \\^\LSH, LEO S. ZGODZINSKI 
FR/\NK MULaVHY, 500 "J " Avenue, Coronado, Calif., at which address he and his wife have been liring since his retirement from the Marine Corps Aviation in '46, was one of the *I4 Class who wrote a good account of himself though unable to be present. 
Since his retirement as a high ranking officer in the ilarine Corps Aviation (General) after service dating from the beginning of ^Vorld War I, Frank has been admitted to the Bar and Is now active in civil affairs. His son, Thomas, has two degrees from Notre Dame and is on active duty now with the Marine Corps Reserve. His daughter, Patricia, graduated this year from San Diego College for Women. Frank inrites any class members out his u'ay to come by and see him. He hopes to return the compliment when he can. 
CLARENCE DERRICK is another transplanted Califomian. He is an instructor in engineering at use . His specific work is construction that 'will absorb earthquake shocks. This is quite a pioneer field of instruction and Clarence does some of his own textbook writing. 
RON O'NEILL who usually writes these notes is fast improring at home. He was spunky enough lately to urite his disapproval of talk about replac­ing and removing the Court House in South Bend. 
E. A. KANE (Ned to you) wrote he couldn't make it because he would be in the East visiting hts grandchildren. 
Richard, the son of FRANK RY.AN, writes for his father that the latter was counting on coming but illness prevented it. He had had a slight stroke. He would be pleased to hear from any of you at 

Notre Dame AlumnuSy September, 1959 41 
his address wliicli is 6721 Southeast 34th Avenue, 
Portland 2, Orcgon-
JOHX F. HYNES, chairman of the board of Em­

ployers Mutual in Dcs Moines. loiva, extended his 
greetings to members of the class and said he would 
be with us in spirit. 
U'ILLI.\M CUSACK (Cutie to you) extends his 

regrets and sa\'5 he was nut able to come because 
hv and his wife had planned an cvtended trip. 
RICHARD BROW'X is still busy taking care of 

the affairs of his company at Port Arthur, Texas, 
but was planning on coming for tlic reunion when 
he found at the last moment he had to make a busi­
ness trip to California. 
It^s funny how California figures so strong in 

these notes and vou don't hear a word about New 
York. But SAM FL.ANAGr\X from New York City 
was here and FRANK CANNING, who I believe 
is a native son of California, wrote from Los An­
geles that this is the time for getting out of tlie 
hills with some old pals and he was going to do it 
%*hile he could. He sent word to FATHER DORE­
.MUS and PO^TTr D0\\*N1NG. 
ELMER J. WHITT\' of Whitty & ^fcGah, Chi-' 
cago. III., was another who expressed his regret at 
bring unable to attend. 
From tlie Alumni Office: 
HENRY J. FRAWLEY of Spearfish, So. Dak., 
who was a graduate of the ^finims and the old 
Prep Scltool as well as a Ph.B., has a son, Henry, 
Jr.. going into the senior year at N. D. Unable to 
make the reunion, Henry was on campus last fall 
with .Mrs. Fraxvlcy and TIM GALVIN, SR. 
Deepest s^inpathv to the familv of M.AURICE 
McERLAIN, who died in May. 
1 O I C Janies £. Sanford 
• ' ' ** 1429 W. Farragut Ave 
Chicago 40, HI DETROIT--Impressivc triple-tier dais distinguishes this delayed panorama of Universal Notre Dame Night at Detroit's Latin Quarter. 
Reunion Registrant HENRY B. SNYDER • 

From tlie Alumni Office: 
S>Tnpalhy to the family of HARDY J. BUSH, inspiring to hear about how Notre Dame beat JR., Las Vegas, Nev., who died in May. A horse­191 7 S^dward J. McOsker Michigan at football in 1909. Of course that's nigh man and polo player after undergrad football, he 50 years ago. We recently ran into one of the _ 
" ' ' 219 Alcazar Hotel 
was a ca\^r>* officer in the ^fexican Border f:am-players in that memorable game — BERT **RED** ^ paign and ^Vo^Id \Var IL KELLY. He's been handicapped with a bad leg' the 
Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio 

last dozen years, and surely would be glad to hear Four sons of the late DR. JOHN M. CULLI-From the Alumni Office: from any real oldtimcr. at his home in Zephvr-G.AN of St. Paul, Minn., former N. D. Foundation 
In Pittsburgh, Pa., a group of staff physicians at 
hills, Fla. 
governor for Nlinncsota, arc Notre Dame men: Dr. 
^^crcy Hospital, headed by DR. LEO 0*DON-
John A., *48; Bob, '51, now witli ^tinnesota Min­DAX McGL'\'NN, who was handed his law de­
NELL, is erecting a $700,000 diagnostic clinic and 
ing & Mfg. Co.; Dave, Class of *55, and Frank, gree at the Mame River in I9I8 by Chaplain 
office building across from tlie hospital. 
currently a student. Father MATTHEW WALSH, is the subject of a 
DAN HILGARTNER and his wife, Mar\- Ruth, 
long and flattering article in the St. Louis Post-celebrated their fortieth anniversary' with a Mass of Dispatch, telling how he has long endured as the 191 6 ^^<*^c'' ^' stiller thanksgiving on June 7. Friends are alwa^'s wel­political boss of East St. Louis. Accompanying the 612 Wisconsin Ave come at the Hilgartner home in Forest Springs, artidc is a mammoth tliree-column picture of Dan, Racine, Wis. Harbert, Midi., between Michigan City, Ind., and and a slicker super-executive look on any 63-year-St. Joseph. Dan retired about a year ago after old lawyer certainly would be hard to find. There Reunion Registrant -10 years in the Ad Dept. of the Chicago Tribune. were even a graduation picture and excerpts from WILLLVM BRADBURY Best wishes to EDWARD J. ROGERS, Milwau­the 1918 Dome write-up of Dan. '*Nevcr run for ^ kee, Ws., in his new responsibilities with the N.D. office; run your friends; if tlie%* win it means you 9 LOU KEIFER is tlie Vice President and General Ad\isor>* Council for Science and Engineering. He got them elected; if they lose — well, they were Manager of the Tribune-Star. Publishing Company, is president and General ^fanager of the Laync-just slow horses" — was the advice Dan's father Tcrrc Haute, Ind. Now 65 years old, u*ill be build­Northwcst Company in Milwaukee. gave him when Dan was just starting up the ladder. ing a new publbhing plant in the near future. Met "Prep" MARCH WELLS in Florida. Son, Lou Jr. From the Alumni Office: 
1918 C*^^**^ ^V- Call 
is with North American A\iation. Both come back Marv Vit^nia Starrctt, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. 
225 Patcrson Ave. 

often for reunions. EDWIN .MORRIS STARRETT, became the bride 
Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. 

PAUL M. WOOD, ^f. D., 23 Cozzens Avenue, of Lawrence G. Dodd on May 2, according to a Something most of us surely didn't know until 
Highland Falls, N.Y. Semi-retired. Curator of the recent note from Morrie. Wood LJbrar\"-Museum, 131 West 11th Street, New 
now — JIM LOG/\N is 12 times a grandfather. 
York 11, N.Y. 
.•Mso there's a street named after him in Denver, lOl O Theodore C. Rademakcr PR. VINCENT MOONEY now at 215 East North or maybe, more accurately, he lives on Logan Peru Foundrj- Co. Street, Kenton, Ohio. street. 
Peru, Indiana 

EDGAR KOBAK, 341 Park Avenue, New York 
AMtli his long career of Superintendent of Scliools «22, N.Y., was a Minim in St. Edward's Hall, is a of Escanaba, Midi., behind him, JOHN LE.MMER, 
Reunion Registrants 

business consultant. Was a member of the Science 
twice our Class President, 40 years apart, is a new MAURICE J. aVRROLL, PAUL FENLON, and Engineering Council and a member of the Lib­
District Governor of Rotarv* International. He in­
TED C. R.\DE.MACHER 

eral Arts Council at Notre Dame. Hopes to get 
tends to lend his talents generously to that well 
back for the 1961 reunion. 
known organization. 
From the xMiunni Office: Imagine reading lengthy most interesting TED R^VDEMACHER has not been heard from 
RAY McADAMS, 2301 Alhambra Circle, Coral a and Gables, Fla., is in the investment business. Inntcs arlide about PETE ROXCHETTI in the American since June and may be despondent about the show­us to look him up when South. 
Legion section of the Voice-ChronicIe, of Corpus ing at the fortieth anniversarj* gathering, at which UILLIAM BRADBURY, Robinson, III., \Tsits . Christi, Texas, and not finding that sudi a bundle St. Louis' MAURICE CARROLL was the only non-
Notre Dame often. Is on Notre Dame La^\• Com­of aggressiveness played on Notre Dame's great Hoosicr registrant. Ted might be consoled by sta­
mission. 'Will be 66 on September 8. Writes a long football teams. No mention of his mirth-provoking tistics. Possibly the most war-ra\-aged of N. D. interesting letter. \Vould enjoy hearing from any pundiing of tlie accordion, either. But as a yotmg Classes, with a third to gather no more except for of his classmates. lieutenant he was in the thick of the St. Miliicl the Great Reunion Up Yonder, another third scat­
(Ed. Note: Reintroducing tlie well-known keeper drive, and the Meusc-Argonne olTensivc, in World tered and most of the rest unable to return after of this comer. GROVER MILLER has a son, daugh­War I, and since tlicn has travelled far and wide AV. W. I, 1919 does nearly as well as some of the A^ ter and three grandcliildren. He operates Miller for the Com Products Co. He shoots 80 at golf, great Classes of the last two decades when they ^ ^ Bros. Agency, Inc., insurance and bond counselors in and maybe his **semi-retirement" has a great deal muster only 100. Many, like FRANK Lx\UERMAN Racine. His brother, BERNIE MILLER, '17, died to do with tlie score. up in Marinette, Wis., couldn't get away from the on Oct. 8, 1956. J. L.) When our Class were Freshmen it was awe-store. Others, like JOHN ROCHE (who \-anIshed 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
like a. leprecliaun on the Emerald Isle), couldn't even be contacted. But the absence of others (like ^"good time" CHARLIE LENTZ, retired Singer exec 'and South Bcnd^s merriest ^vidowcr) is hard to 
account for. . With the Class of '14 as an inspira­tion, plans should start immediately for a 50% to 75% turnout at the 45th in 19&4. 
192 0 J^'"^ H- R-yan 
107 Magee Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y. 
From the Ahmini Oflice: 
Super-salesman MARCE VERBIEST was on the campus in July long enough to say hello before returnint; lo liis Delriiit insurance brokerage. 
1921 ^^ ^^'- ^"'^y 
'^' 1101 Superior B!dg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
From the Ahinm! Office: 
Cleveland lawyer DAX W. DUFFY recently n ­ccivcd a note from Chicago colleague WILLIAM S. ALLEN calling his attention to a news clipping. from the New York Times. Dan fonvardcd the clipping which concerned another classmate. DR. THOM/VS N. SHEEN, associate attending physician at St. Clare's Hospital, Neu' York. Dr. Sheen was elected president of the New York Tuberculosis 

^^and Health Association. Also a consultant at Tn­
^^boro Hospital, Dr. Tom has been on the TB /\sso­ciation board since 1949 and was chairman of the Manhattan Christmas Seal campaign in 1954. The picture in the Times clipping reveals a remarkable resemblance to the doctor's older brother and one of the Uiiiversitv's most distinguished honorar\' alumni. Most Reverend FULTON J. SHEEN. 
It was pleasant but no surprise to learn that FATHER HESBURGH had named HAROLD S. FOLEY to the University's f\ssociate Board of Lay Trustees. Harold is president of Powell River Com­pany Ltd., Vancouver. British Columbia. He has been honored throughout Canada for his power firm's contribution to the industrial growth of our northern neighbor. 
1 922 Gerald A. Ashe 
• '^ ^ 39 Cambridge Sf. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
Reunion Registrants GEORGE G. KERVER, WALTER SHILTS 
We are delighted to hear the grand news of the ordination to holy priesthood of two sons nf our classmates — Father Robert L. Mahonev, son of the late LEO A. MAHONEY and ^^rs. (Julia Loo­tens) Mahoney of South Bend, who was ordained at St. Marv-'s Cathedral. Galveston. Tctas, .May 23, 

^and of Father .-Vlfonso Scott, son of the Hon. and 
P.Mrs. ALFONSO A. SCOTT of Los Angeles, who was ordained at St. Vibianis Cathedral in Los .An­geles, .April 30. Father Mahoney's first Solemn High Mass was celebrated Sunday. May 31 at Church of Christ the King on Dixtc Highway north of £<outh Bend. Father Robert is the second son of our beloved classmate. Leo, to enter the priest­hood. Father Bernard Mahoney is now ser\'in5 at St. Mary's Church. Brownwood. Texas. Father Scott sang his first Solemn High ^[ass in his home city on Sunday. May 3. We do heartily congratu­late the newly ordained priests, also tlieir ver>' proud parents, and extend our best wishes. Tlic 
»
A. A. Scotts live at 1669 Wellington. Los Angeles 6, Calif, and Mrs. Julia Mahoney resides at 5328 Juniper Road. South Bend. Thanks Jo a great assist from our able and pop­tdar class president. R/\LPH CORYN, the boys have been more active of late in the correspond­ence department. Everybody In our class is pleased to read of the doings of our classmates, but not too many feel that they, too, should do something about passing along news items to the class secre­tar>- or other class officers for printing in the ALUMNUS. Ralph kindly sends along some in­teresting news about his own family. He writes: "Last June our daughter Mar>' Ann finished St. Mar>''5. and that finished my school program. I feci that the good Lord was very nice to me in al­lowing me to put three boys through Notre Dame, ^n d the girl through St. Mar>''s. Our daughter 'just returned from Panama where she had beju teactiing since last July. Two of the boys are now 
practicing law here (Meline, Itl.) and Jack, also, the City Attorney. Bob is a salesman, and on Jan. 

"Notre Daniers all" could be the caption for this photo of principals at a wedding on canipns June 27: (front row, 1. to r.) Thomas E. Powers, '55; Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C^.C, '23, director of the N.D. Foundation, celebrant; the bride, the former Marilyn Dolores Friel (Mar>*niount College, but pursuing her master's at N.D. summer school); the bridegroom, Allan J. Powers, '51, Foundation area director; (back row, I. to r.) James E. Friel, Jr., '30, father of the bride; his brother, Joseph G. Friel, '29; brother-in-law Joseph V. Lenihan, '29, and John F. Powers, '55. 
1 had his third child — a little girl. He has two bo\-s so the Cor\n name is doing nicely." 
Here Is a note from FRANK BLOE.MER, JR., class \*Ice-president of the southern domain, who sa>-s: "Our girls are now ver>' much knee deep In house work — Mar>' Frances (SchaefTcrs) and their foiu- in Louisville are kept very busy. Jim, the oldest boy, made his First Communion and w'os confirmed Sunday. Ruth - (Vivianos) and her three live in Tampa, Fla. They enjoy the sunny South ver>- much, and, of course, that gives us an excuse to head South occasionally." 
PIERRE "PETE" CHA.MPION of Cleveland re­ports in uith this message: "In accordance with memo received from RALPH CORYN, I am pleased to send my check lo Doc Wcis. our class treas­urer, to build up our Memorial Mass fund. I, too, hope the fund will last for a long time. Agne5 and I sold our big bouse about four years ago. We now live in an apartment. I love it, no grass to cut or snow to shovel. We now have almost ten grand­children — with only two of our children married, DaWd and Patsy. Our two youngest boys. Peter and Bill, are students at Notre Dame. Their scho­lastic .ratings arc just so-so. I am glad that my college da^'s are behind me. Tlie present-day stan­dards are mighty tough. A few weeks ago, we had our Rockne Memorial Breakfast in Cleveland. FR/VNK LE^VH^' was the speaker. He did a mar­velous Job. It was the first time I ever heard him speak." 
Your secretary had a fine visit with CY KELLET and others of the Kellet family who made a spe­dal trip over to home of CHtVRLIE "RED" CROWLEY in Weston, Mass., for a '22 s>Tnposium. Cy and family reside in Millford, Mass. Then, a short time thereafter, he came upon DANNY SUL­LIVJVN, formerly of Jamestown, N.Y., at New Ha­ven, Conn. Dan is northeastern Division Manager of Slueller Climatrol, division of Worthington Corp. Your scribe and Dan had many interesting gab­fcsts in the shadow of dear old Yale, and later at the Sullivan domicile In Albany, N.Y. 
Here is a note of special interest to all of '22 and '23 from MARTIN BRENNAN of Buffalo, N.Y., who uTites: "This card was delayed by apa­thy and the fact I could not find your address. Vital Statistics — Peter is married five years, and has four children. He Is B.S.M.E. with Chrysler Corp. In missile dirision, Pontiac, Mich. Larry is married and expecting. He attended Canisius. Tom is registered for next September at Notre Dame. He can hardly miss as he has top marks and many extracurricular activities including first string for 
Canisius football team, which won one game last fall. The players were very disappointed about that one win — spoiling an almost perfect record. At least, they did their best to lose, but did not get the "breaks" against St. Francis. Sheila Is first string Freshman at Sacred Heart, and Is bound and determined to go to St. Mary's at Notre Dame. She has her mother's looks and brains, and should go far. Mom and Dad are old and grey, and would enjoy seeing you when you come to Bi^alo." GEORGE T. McDER.MOTT, formerly of St. Paul, Minn., is now affiliated with the Pacific Machine Mfg. Co., 7107 S.E. 65th St., Portland 6, Oregon. JOHN FRANCIS HEFFERMAN now resides at 178-60 Hexford Terrace, Jamaica Estates, Queens, 

N. Y. Eariy In the year D.ANIEL H. YOUNG and Mrs. Young had a delightful sea vx»>-age visiting most of the countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea. .\ special highlight of the trip was their visit to Italy, Rome and the Vatican \*-here they saw the Holy Father. Dan said he regrets he was not able to attend the first Solemn Mass of Father Mahoney in South Bend to which he received an Invitation. Also, Dan spoke glowingly of the hospitality of PETE CH/\MPION» who accorded him the red car­pet treatment on a recent visit to Cleveland. At lunclieon, Dan and Pete had a chat vrith JOSEPH THO.MPSON, president of M. A. Hanna Co., who attended Notre Dame with them. The Dan Youngs now reside at Lakeside Manor Apartments, Apt. 201, 383 Lakeside Road, Ardmore, Pa. A^VRON HUGUENARD, RALP H CORYN, FRANK BLOEMER, DAN YOUNG, CHARLIE CROWLEY, CY KELLET, DAN SULLIVAN, DOCTORS .\UTT WEIS and DON SEXTON; FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, EDDIE GOTTRY, FRANK CONNELLY and PETE CHAMPION have expressed sorrow on the deaths of our classmates — STEVE CARMODY and EDDIE BYRNE. FRANK W. CONNELLY, ass't vice-president of the Pacific National Insurance Group (P.O. Box 36«), San Francisco 20, Calif., v^Tote Dr. MATT ^VE^S on May 7. He reported that very day he had a phone call from JERRY JONES, whom he had not heard from in many years. Both are near neighbors down the San Francisco peninsula. Thanks 
for the news, and keep it coming to G. **KID" ASHE. 
From the Alumni Office: 
RALPH CORYN reported to the office that the Mass Fund Is going well and that he and MATT ^VEIS would keep us posted. Ralph's son Jim was 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 43 
married in Peoria in ^lay, 
A. HAROLD ^^•EBER' «-as named lo Noire Dame's Advisorj' Council for the Law School re­cently. 
AVelcomc aboard to LEO P. KELLY, a former classmate voted to ftill membership by the Alumni Board in June. Leo lives in Oak Park. 111. 
I 093 Louis V. Bruggner *• 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Ind. 
From tlic Alumni Oilicc: 
While prolific reporter LOUIS BRUGGNER takes 

a mucli-descrvcd vacation from his labors, wc should 
report that DAN CULHANE keeps the olHce in­
formed of N. D. matters in the East while he tra­
vels the region as a director of the Boy's Clubs of 
.•\merica. 
1 994 Jaracs R. Mcchan ^ ^ 329 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 
Reunion Registrants JEROME C. ARNOLD, M1LLI.-VM J. .ASH, GEORGE H. BALDUS, THO.MAS W. BARBER, GEORGE F. BARRY, GEORGE BEHAN, CYRIL 
T. BIRKBECK, EDWARD G. CANTWELL, IRVING W. CAREY, ALBERT D. a\STELLIXI, \VILL!.\.M J. CO.VNORS, THOM^VS E. COOKE, JOSEPH L. DESMOND, THOM.\S C. DONO­VAN, LEVI A. GE.VIESSE, LEO C. HERINGER, EARI, C. HURLEY, JA.MES D. HURLEY, J. F.\RRELL JOHNSTON, R.\YMOND J. LANG, HAROLD L. LOKDO, EDWARD J. MCLAUGH­LIN, EUGE.NE A. M.\YL, JAMES R. MEEH.VN, RICHARD C. MILLER, TIMOTHY J. MURPHY, 
T. CLIFFORD NOON.-iN, WALTER C. NO­VESKY, JOHN R. PETRICH, BENJAMIN C. PISER, ROBERT P. RE,\GAN, ROBERT M. RINK, THOMAS J. SHEEHAN, JOHN P. SUL­LH'.AN, J.4MES P. S\VTFT, EDWARD T. TIGHE, 
THOM.-\S J. WALSH, HAROLD WELCH 

From the .-Mumni Office: -* 
JIM MEEH.AN is still resting up from a verv­successful reunion in whldi the small but vociferous 1924 delegation recstaljlishcd its reputation as one of the University's first "rebel" or "beat genera­tion" classes. 
PAUL McG.ARRY is ranging around the hemi­sphere. Formerly a citizen of Victoria, B. C , Can­ada, Paul has moved to Mexico for an indefinite Slav. His address is San Bias, Nayarit, Mexico. 
1975 John p. Hurlcy t M€.^ 2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
It was wiih creat rt-grrt that I announced llic death of EMMETT M. GRINAGER, PliBC, '25. This xvas a great shock as Enimctt was in a lot of my classes way back there. As JIM ARM­STRONG said in part to Emractt's widow. " I hope that all of the things which Xotrc Dame passed on to Emmctt and lils brothers will help to ease the shock and grief a little bit." I would like to call to the attention of the alumni, that our boy Jim Armstrong docs a beautiful job in his letters of s>TDpathy to the family. H.:\NK WOJRZER and I have often talked about this. In Jim's letter to HrVRRY AMBROSE'S widow a similar sentiment was expressed. . . a beautiful thought, Jim. In case you fellows didn't know, Father O'Donnell says a Mass once a month for all the Alumni and of course there is that special Mass that H/\NK AXIJR­ZER takes care of out of our class Mass fund. Let's keep sending those "bucks" lo Hank for this won­derful purpose. 
I drove over to the campus for the Spring game and I saw a few of the bo>-s. DON MILLER and EVIE KOHL \vcrc on deck a few da>-s before the game so they could get in a few rounds of golf. JOHN KAXE was there. He has a Avonderful con­tact for years to come witli his son in the C.S.C. brothers. By the way, bo>'S, be sure to visit the new seminar^' across the lake. . . .it's a beautiful building. 
Joe's boys looked good on the football field. I talked ^vlUi HUNK ANDERSON', PAT CANN'Y, FRANK LEAHY, LEON HART and JOE McAR-DLE, and they all seemed to like what the\- saw but they all agreed there, wss still a lot of work to be done, especially on the line. 'Whicli reminds me . . -be sure to get those Notre Damc-Na\*y tickets for October 31, so you will be at our cocktail party. 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
New Rochelle, N. Y., Mayor George Ver­gara, '25, is visibly moved as he pins on his i*ife. Dr. AHys Dwyer Vergara, associ­ate professor at the College of New Ro­chelle, the Benemerenti Medal, a papal honor conferred by Cardinal Spellman (left) in a surprise announcement at lona College dedication ceremonies. Infrequently a^^•arded by the Holy Father, the medal for outstanding Christian endeavor honored educational and ci\*ic service of Mrs. Ver­gara, also active in the U.N. and Ladies of Charity. 
Also remember that come June, 19G0, we will have to be on deck for our 35th reunion. I used to warn you fellows to ask **your lady" to let you spend that week end at N. D. but now I think wc should say a few Aves to Our Lady that wc will be around for it. 
Big doings are coming up for Marie and JOHN HURLEY in the next feu- months. Our daughter ^te r Moira Patrice of the ^^a^>•knoll order will be professed and get her black veil on June 24th, and our daughter Patricia will marr>- MICHAEL PETER LTNDERWOOD. '58, of Davenport, loiva, on Sept. 
12. John Patrick will finally have a Notre Datnc son via the marriage route. 
From the --Vlumni Office: 
FRANK W. HO\\X.\ND, C.L.U., general agent for Massacliusetts Mutual Life in Detroit, %\'a5 elected president of the Detroit Life Underwriters Association in June. Frank lias been vice president, treasurer, a director and chairman of several com­mittees with the /Vssociation. 
From Wetumpka, Ala., Ia«Tcr JOHN A. YUNG reminisces that "my fondest recollection is the hockey game plaved by the Tcicas • boys — LEON­ARD HESS, BILL DIELMAN, MENGER and I (and we were not particular so wc had some dam­yaiikecs join us) — in or on the lake nearest tlie librar>-. Most of us Southerners couldn't even stand up on ice skates and wc had some beautiful splUs. I can remember skidding almost to Moreau Scmi­nar>* on the other lake. The real Noire Dame hockey team and others sat in the snow on the bank near the library to laugh. We decided not to name our team — in fact, we decided not to play again." ;\fter Notre Dame John was at Har^'ard Law School with JAMES A. CARROLL. 
1 OJ A Rudy Gocpfrich 
• '^' ' 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Ind. 
Reunion Registrants 
J. H. DRISCOLL, J. ARTHUR HALEY 

You will note tliat Class news for tliis issue is scarce. It must be in the hands of the editor about two montlis before going to press. I hope some of you wiU prowde mc with some nc^^'s items before September 1st, which is deadline for the November issue. 
FATHER BERNARD J. COUGHLIN, our class­mate priest, is at College of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minn., where he is ser\-ing as instructor and athletic director. Father ficmie has held the of­
fices of president and sccrctar\'-trea3urer of the 
Minnesota Intercollegiate Athletic Conference. Many 
of you will remember the fine companionship whicf^N 
Father showed at our 30th Reunion. He plans otnL/ 
attending our 35th in 1961 and we arc looking for-
At'ard to Seeing him then. 
FRANK DEFTLE met HERB EGGERT at the 

Caterpillar plant in Peoria, Frank was there drtun­
mtng up some business for his outfit, Tlie Winkle-
man Company, and Herb was there selling chemi­
cals for a New York firm. Herb has a son ^v•ho is 
a Junior at Notre Dame. 
Your secretary and Mrs. G. had an enjoyable 

week at M>Ttlc Beach, S. C , with our nephew, 
GEORGE GOEPFRICH, *33, and his wife Ger­
trude, who is Mrs, G.'s sister. (Try to figure out 
that relationship!) W^c had lots of golf and some 
fishing; we didn't break any records in cither sport. 
JOHN RYAN, our Class President, posi-cardec*) 

from Salt Lake City that he and Ona were on 
their way home from a West Coast \ac3tion. 
Some of our classmates have changed their ad­dresses recently. a\PTAlN FR/\NC1S J. BON, whose former address ^vas Na\*3l Actiwtics, Italy, is now in the office of Judge Advocate General, West Coast, San Bruno, Calif. GEORGE P. O'DAY's address changed from Chicago to River Forest, 111.; JOHN B. LE/\HY from Oak Park, III., to Whca­ton. 111.; EDWARD F. HARGAN from Dallas, Tex. to Washington, D. C , and CLARE LEO TOUHEY from Palm Beach, Fla., to Geneva, N.Y. 
Your secretary' has had the honor of being elected president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and FR/\NK DEFFLE has been elected sec;^ rctary of the club. Our firet event was the annuajfll^ Golf Outing at the Notre Dame Golf Course on June 24, with a record attendance. Other forth­coming events will be a picnic in August; five Quarterback Lunclieons in October and November; Communion Sunday in December; the Football Tes­timonial Banquet In December; a dance in Janu­ary; the Rocknc Memorial Mass and breakfast in March; Universal Notre Dame Night in April and the Old Timers Football Game In May — a big year of work for Frank and mc. 
From the Alumni OHice: 
Look for a feature in this magazine about FRi\NK DONOVAN'S activities as president of the Detroit Grand Opera .-Vssociation. ^ 
Clarence J. Ruddy 

1927 
32 S. River St. Aurora, III. 

My mother died on St. Valentine's Day of this year, and witli her passing an era closed. Dad had died five years earlier. The big house, having seen the family grow, become educated, and its diH'crcnt members leaving to get married and settling down from coast to coast, has been sold. In my case it was Dad and Mother who started the tradition of Notre Dame. Neither of tlicm had gone to col­lege (few parents had, a generation ago), but they were determined that tliclr son should go. LikcA many other hardworking Catholic parents, they knew Notre Dame, and they knew no other. So, to Notre Dame I went. I never regretted the de­cision, nor did they, Tliey were as much a part of Notre Dame as I was. 
I realize It Is not my function as class secretary to dwell upon my personal affairs. I mention these matters only because I think my case is not unique. A little reflection will persuade us that our parents — and I suppose most of them are gone now — had a great deal to do with the selection of Notre Dame. Wc should be grateful for that. Since this issue will be published after the observance of Mother's Day and Dad's Day, wc should ofler ^ M prayer of Thanksgiving that our parents made such " a •wise choice. 
I mentioned the preceding generation. Now let me mention tl»c next. On the first of May, my old­est son received word that he was accepted as a student at Notre Dame for the year to begin In September. So now begins another era. Tlic tra­dition will be carried on. New associations will be formed. Some of the people I knew as classmates u-ill be known to him as professors. Some of Phil's classmates will undoubtedly tell him from time to time that their fathers know his father. The No­tre Dame that this generation will find will be, as you know, far different than the Notre Dame we knew, but the essence is still the same. For years since graduation, I have seen little of the University ^ ^ except at reunions and football games. The asso­ciation with it as a school has been limited to reminiscences of a period which ended in 1927. Now in my mind it will become a school again. 
%vith students, courses and classes, priests and pro­fessors. TIic prospect is invigorating. Walking down LaSallc Street in Chicago the 

^>tlicr day I ran into Rc\Y McCLORY, a successful law>"cr of the City, and one who looks the part. He also has a son at Notre Dame. 
I received news of TOM.MY GREEN a while ago, in. about the most delightful way imaginable. Tom­my has a daughter named ^^a^io, who is a fresh­man at Barat College at Lake Forest, 111. One of her classmates is a daughter of an Aurora friend of mine, who had ifarjo out for a week end. Marjo came over to our house, and told mc about licr father. He lives in Houston, Texas, and practices law in Conroc. He has nine children; Marjo is the second oldest. She has two brothers who arc planning on entering Noire Dame this year. Marjo is a very pretty, charming girl, tj-pical of the 
daughters of other classmates. 

• ' This is pretty late to mention it, but 1 received a Christmas card from ART MONACO, at the proper season. His address is 308 West 58th Street, New York City. I was glad to hear from him. 
From the Alumni Office: 
EVERETT C. BROWN, out in Reno, Nev., is about to make a move that most of us make only ia dreams. In a note to J1.\I AR.MSTRONG he wrote: "On reaching my 56th year I decided I was not having any fun, so I've retired. Many times I have listened to the call of the wild goose. . .finally realized that he ^vho travels possesses the world. So come this September I hope to make my home in San Sebastian, Spain, as a starter. . .My son is 

Ain the Marines and my wife deceased many years ago, so I have no outlaws or in-laws to battle as to a decision." 
Recently promoted to manager of the Chicago zone of General Motors' Chevrolet Motor Division (the most productive zone and the number one zone job in the U. S.) was HARRY W. O'BOYLE. Harry j'oined Chevrolet in Des Moines, Iowa, in 1937, had promotions and transfers to Minneapolis, Alinn.; St. Louis, Mo.; Omalia, Neb., and Kansas City, Mo., before returning to Des Moines. He became city manager for Chicago in 194B, Milwau­kee zone manager in 1955, and on May 1 returned to manage the entire Chicago zone. Harr>- has four children: >far>- Ann, a soph at Loretto Heights Col­lege, Denver, Colo.; Kathleen, a freshman at St. 

^Mary's; Jane, a freshman in high school, and Patrick Joesph, still in grade school. 
ARTHUR J. BRADLEY, of Holyoke, Mass., wrote in to be sure we knew about the recent death of JOE HANEY, '28, and a recent recog­nition for BOB SOPER, '20. 
1 928 Loui^ F. Buckley 68-10 I08th St., Forest HilU 75, N.Y. 
Reunion Registrant 
J. PATRICK CANNY 

^ HOWIE PHALIN adx-ised mc of the death of 
"h e 17-ycar-oId son of JOHN R. MURPHY of Co­lumbus on April 3. John's boy was a Junior at St. Charles Academy and played v-arsit^- football for the school. John has two daughters, age 21 and II. 
GEORGE KELLEY's article in the ^^ay, 1959, issue of The Catholic World, entitled "Why Choose a Catholic College?," included the following com­ment on our reunion: "What is the long-range ef­fect of Catholic college training? Does it last? Recently I had an opportunity to observe the ef­fect among my own classmates, gathered for our thirtieth reunion. We had a good turnout, more than 40 per cent of the members who arc still liv­

ing . In most ways it was a t>plcal alumni reunion, 
^rher c was reminiscence and stor>'-telling far into the night; there were shouts, laughs and songs until nearly dawn; there was some horseplay; there was plenty of beer and liquor. The atmosphere was by no means monastic. Yet at 9 o'clock one morning, and at 8 o'clock on another more than two-thirds of the men were on hand for special Masses, and nearly all of them received Holy Communion. Nor was this only by the grace of the relaxed Euchar­jstic regulations. The score had been almost as good at earlier reunions, when committeemen handling the drinks passed the word, j'ust before midnight, that it was the last chance for those who planned to go to Communion. 
"Tlie Catholic training had not brushed off these 

C
cn. Tliey were alert to the moral and religious iplications of current issues. Almost without ex­ception, they were taking an active part in the ^vt)rk of their parishes; some were being called upon to counsel bishops and archbishops." 
JOSEPH J. LORDI, *30 Athlete's Athlete 
When Joe Lordi was elected president of the hallowed New York Athletic Club ear­lier this year it was only the second time in the 91-year history of the club that a former athletic member had achieved the presidency. 
A real athlete*s athlete, Joe was a catcher-second baseman-captain of the 1930 N. D. baseball team and got his A.B. on a full scholarship, having prepped at De La Salle Institute and been recommended by Hugh 
A. O'Donnell, then president of the N. D. Club of New York. Prior to his election as 
N.Y.A.C. president he served three years as vice-president and chairman of the house committee and has been on the Board of Governors since 1950. He joined the club after graduation as an athletic member to play on the Winged Foot baseball team for ten years; transferred to resident member­ship in 1939 and became a life member in 1948, scr\-ing on many important commit­tees in his 29 years with the club, including two years on the athletic committee. 
Joe was 1937 national squash racquet champion, and in 1948 he defeated the Yale Club entry in the final round of a tourney to win the veterans' national squash tennis title. 
In the business world Joe started as an oil salesman and in 1937 opened his own firm, Lordi Petroleum Co., which he still operates in addition to being sole owner and president of the Petroleum Heat and Power Company of Newark, N. J., pur­chased in 1952. He spent four years in the Na\-y in ^V.W. II, mustering out as a lieutenant commander. 
In 1953 Joe married Georgette Meehan in St. Patrick's Cathedral. With their daughter Georgetta they reside at 50 Park Avenue, New York City. 

JOE BREIG, a Catholic j'oumalist of prolific ac­complishments, made another significant contribu­tion in his book, "The Family and The Cross,** an addition to Regnery's Family Life Series. 
JACK WINGERTER sent mc clippings and pic­tures of Judge JAAfES CULLEN taking the oath oi office as the president judge of Bradford Countf, Pa. Jim has been practicing law in Milan, Pa., since he completed his law at Har%'ard. He has three children, ages 17, 15 and 7. JACK WINGER­TER tells me that Jim ran an absolute dead heat with his opponent in the election for judge in the Fall of 1957. The matter was considered by the PennsyK'ania Supreme Court. Finatif- after 15 months, Jim and hb opponent decided the Judge­ship by casting lots. 
MIKE RICKS had ED McKEO^VN. JIM AL­L.AN, HO^VIE PHALD* and JOE HILGER as his guests at the dedication dinner for Moreau Semi­narj'. As you know, Mike has a son in the Semi­nary. 
1 stopped to see BILL O'HARA in Manchester, Conn., recently. He has a daughter and son and is now a grandfather. Bill is a finandal analyst with the Hartford Electric Light Co. in Wethers­field, Conn. He inquired about Dr. FRANK GUARANIERI. Bill plans to return for our 35th reunion in 1963. 
.\LAURICE CONLEY, city judge in Fulton, N.Y., spent tivo weeks in the Lahey Clinic in Boston. Maurice wrote, "AUSTIN (DUTCH) HOLLAND and JOHN EG.AN paid me a visit in the hospital and we had a typical Lyons Hall 'bull session' for about three hours or until the hospital staff made it very clear to brothers Holland and £gan that I was there for treatment and not for conversation. However, as JACK EG.AN said the next flay when he called me, we talked for three hours and didn't accompluh a thing, which, of course. Is exactly what wc set out to do. The %Tsit was most enter­taining and enlightening and you may rest assured that I more than enjoyed it." 
TOM WALSH, the Lincoln, 111., barrister, com­mented as follows on the Notre Dame GIcc Club concert In Lincoln: "The polished, near-professional competence, of the group, (which numbers sons of JACK CANIZARO. FR.ANK CREADON, and Btt L DOWD.ALL as integral members) evoked an enthusi­astic response from their hearers and excited such a wind oE pride in this anuent cx-membcr that the scams of my upper garments almost burst." Tom recently had uord from Dr. PATRICK JO­SEPH SULLIVAN from Lima, Peni, where he was participating in a congress of Central and South American physidans. Dr. Sullivan is no^v serving as Director del Ser\'icio Coopcrativo Interamericano de Salubridad Publica, a joint venture of Nicara­gua and the V, S. for prevention of disease in the children of Nicaragua. Tom gave the foUovdng background on Dr. SULLIVAN: "After completing his medical training in Switzerland, he practiced medicine there and, thereafter, in France, England, Ireland and the Spanish Antilles. He writes and speaks every major European language, save Slavic; has a first-hand acquaintance with the literature, mores and culture of the major European countries. Moreover, he is fairly familiar with many dialects which enabled him, when, he was detached from ser\-ice with the Army Medical Corps in World War II, to aid in the ph>'sical examinations of displaced persons for entrance Into this country; to put the bee on three or four Greek adherents of Stalin who ^^-ere discussing their Inner moti\'ations and glee­fully laying plans for sabotage, in blissful ignorance of Uie fact that a physician of obWous Iriih descent could comprehend their native speech. These, at least, constituted Joe's linguistic attainments at the time of our latest class reunion. Since then, he put in sbc months as staff surgeon at an Indian Rcser­\*ation Hospital in South Dakota and probably has mastered Chocta^v, Sioux, ^Vinnebago and Mandan and added them to his list." 

Our Class Vice-President from the Midwest, VINCE CARNEY, has been successful in getting responses from classmates from whom we have not had a report in years. For example, CHARLEY HOMER wrote from St. Louis informing Vince that he was in the hospital with a broken leg at rcumon time a year ago. The following are excerpts from a letter to Vlnce from my Freshman Hall room­mate, JOE BIWNNON: ".Am still with Sears (it takes these major corporations a long time to get rid of deadweght) and still In Phoenix, Ariz. Hope I ^vIII al%va)3 be in Arizona, but us corporation boys keep our bags packed and our powder dry. My kids range from first grade to senior In high school. As for myself, I am reluctantly making the transi­tion to old age. No hair, false teeth, glasses for reading, creaky joints, completely Intolerant of teenage antics. Have also made the complete polltl-
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 45 
cal transition from being an ardent original Xcu-Dealer in 1932 to being an ardent Taft fan in 1950. So some, that metamorphosis is indication of ma­turity; to others it indicates senility. 
"Saw HEXRY HASLEY last month. He was in 
Phoenix to soak up some sunshine." The lead stor\­
in the May number of the Pacific Coast magazine is 
"TIic Arizona Stor>*" by Joe. 

Dr. DAX BRADLEY appeared on tclev-ision again in April. He did his usual good Job in commenting on a recent book, "Birth Control and Catholic Doc­trine." 
Tlic '28 gang in Chicago got together at the Uni­versal Xotrc Dame Xight partv including HOU7E PHALIX, JOHN RICKORD, BILL MURPHY, ED. McKEOUTC, BILL DUTER, ED RAFTER, DICK PHELAX, BILL KEARNEY, BERT KORZEN, Judge JOHN LYONS, JIM ALLAN and HAL REY­NOLDS. ED RAFTER mentioned that Judge JOHN LYONS \rill be up for reelection again in the fall, as his six-year term as judge of the Superior Court of Cook County concludes at that time. 
DICK QUINLAN reports that AL HANS is as­sistant manager of safety for the Standard Oil Com­pany of Indiana. 
FRANK CREADON dropped a note from Salt Lake City where he was attending a meeting of tlic American Mosquito Control .Association. 
P.AUL BUTLER gave an excellent talk in Boston recently on *'Human Riglits for All Americans" in the Ford Hall forum series. 
F. X. JIM O'BRIEN sent your class sccretarj-a box of sweets from Florida which was enjoyed and appreciated bv the whole famJlv, 
NORB SEIDEXSTICKER advised that ROSS HARRINGTON'S father died earlier this year. Norb's oldest son is studying medicine at Western Rcserx'c. He will have a daughter at St. Mar>'*s next year. Norb is now a grandfather. 
Father JIM McSHANE, S. J., writes from \-ari­
ous spots where he gives retreats. Jim is now lo­cated at St. Matthews at 2715 North Sarah St. in St. Louis. 
Mrs. Lavelle wrote to let me know how grateful she was for the material we issued in .April con­taining many tributes to Jack, and for the assist­ance given by BERNIE GARBER and others in the New York Club \vitii respect to the Jack Lavelle Fund. We aie also indebted to ED BRENNAN of Chicago for the wonderful job he did in processing that newsletter which has been praised highly by a number of classmates. Wc also appreciate the as­sistance given by GEORGE CRONGEYER in pay­ing the mailing expense for this project. 
BERNIE GARBER had a letter from JOHN CAR­ROLL from Springfield, III., advising that he en­tertained BILL KIRWAN and his wife in Sarasota last winter. 
GEORGE CRONGEYER reports that he recently had the privilege of lunching with the perennially youtliful BILL CRONIN and BERNIE GARBER. George mentioned that Bill Cronin's son is a mem­ber of the swimming team at Notre Dame. George met TIERNEY O'ROURKE at the Universal No­tre Dame Night dinner. Tiemcy is with the New York Life, while George is with Metropolitan Life. 
Our class vice-president for the East, BERNIE GARBER, has been in loucli with a number of classmates regarding a possible retmion retreat and a Cardinal O'Hara '28 Scliolarship Fund. He re­ports that those he asked for comments responded with a majority in favor of both, with a high en­thusiasm for the latter. He has submitted the fol­lowing notes which set an example which I hope will be emulated by other class V.-P.'s in the next 
"Tlic editor of Tlie Jersey Journal, GENE FAR­RELL, reports that after 30 years in the netvspa­per business he finally won a prize for reporting and news writing. He says: *It's an opportunity editors don't mucli get (something like a baseball manager becoming a pinch hitter and hitting a clutch home run). However, 1 did manage to bag an exclusive story and wrote it well enou^i to win third prize against some very tough competition. Do you think tliat after all these years the Scribblers (they wouldn't let me in because I hadn't written enough stuff) might think better of it now?' 
*'An interesting kindness performed by Gene in­volved the St. Petersburg, Fla., high school band which worked for months to raise $11,000 to come to New York for the St. Patrick's Day parade — only to be barred from the parade by a tcclmicality. Subsequently Gene, as editor of The Jersey Journal, got the city's mayor to put on a special 'post-St. Patrick's Day' parade featuring the Florida band. It was a great success that won for all, nation-wide nctvspaper, TV and radio publicity. 'When he wrote. Gene was about to vacation in England so that he could hear English in its most beautiful form — that of Devonshire. 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
PHILADELPHIA—^At a tcstinionial luncheon honoring Charles M. Dougherty, '26, Pennsyl­^•ania's Secretary of Revenue, (from left) Charles A. Conley, '33, was toastmaster; Charlie Dougherty (at mike) expressed his thanks, and Clifford Prodehl, '32, announced the presen­tation of an N.D. monogram blanket and the "Dougherty" coat of amis. 
*-Ha\-ing been in the Law Class, BILL DOW­DALL, JR., of the National Market Co., Buffalo, has two reunions — that of the '29 and '28 groups. He will be at N. D. this June, when his son Bill graduates. The latter is a member of the current Glee Club. Barbara Ann, Bill's daughter, will marr>- Roger Nicliolson this summer. His letter closes with an inquiry for news about ED M0\^*­ERY. Among othere. Bill will see OLLIE SCHELL, '29, at their reunion, who wrote and contributed to the Jack Lavelle Fund. 
"From Missouri a note by CARROLL PINKLEY, visited recently by Father Jim McShanc. He had seen Joe Lenihan and Dolores at the Army game. Joe is another man who doubles on reunions with the '28 and '29 groups, being at home with both; he now lives in Rumson. N. J. 
"ANDY POWERS writes from 734 Mickler Drive. Jacksonville, Fla., that he will be glad to see classmates traveling that way. Not a bad idea, con­sidering Andy is assistant sales manager of Swcd Distributing Co., largest Budweiser Beer wholesaler in the U. S. Andy had just moved there in Decem­ber and had not yet seen any X. D. men. 
"The second son of PETE GALLAGHER is fin­ishing his freshman year at N. D., his older brother being graduated there in *57. Pete sa\-s the only 
X. D. friend he sees in Frceland, Pa., is HUGH aV-MPBELL, '27. Heartbroken that sdiool affaire prevented attendance at the 30th reunion, Pete promises drastic action to make the 35th. 
"CYP SPORL, president of his own incorporate^^ company of insurance brokers and average adjustcrs,V.y responds from Xew Orleans on the Lavelle Fund that he enjoyed a recent discussion of the past and the future with SEY.MOUR WEISBERGER and his wife. Some mighty nice things. sa>-s C\"p. were said about mutual friend P.-VUL BUTLER and his ability. *What is an average adjuster,' inquire my cliildren in school, eagerly. 
*'For a man who has been in all 48 states and prefers Arizona, my sophomore roommate. JOE BRt\XXOX, ought to be able to make OXE '28 re­union. From Joe's round-robin letter, I'll wager he hasn't changed a bit. From the photo enclosed his four handsome children do take after their mother. 
"DICK *.\IUXCIE' GREEXE sent me color slides taken at the '28 reunion, but I have nut yet re-^. ceived the projector so I can't report on them.*--' STEVE SHERRY tells me Dick and his wife .Mil­dred are planning on a trip to Hawaii this summer. 
"JERRY DeCLERCQ's address In Royal Oak, Mich., seems to be changed to 2832 Vinsetta Blvd., but he sent not a bit of news. Tell us, Jerry, if that final numeral is coriect and also brings us up to date about yourself. 
MOHA^VK VALLEY—Among several N.D. men at an athletic hanquet for Utica Catholic Academy were principal speaker "Sleepy Jim" Crowley, '25, (extreme left) and Charlie Hitzelbci^cr, *32 (third from left), who was toastmaster. 
*' 'The Slor\* of Pope John XXIII,* first book on the new pontiff published in the U. S., by the new JCatholic firm Summit Press, Inc., was written by bOE BREIG, assistant managing editor of the 
Cleveland Universe Bulletin. In the Cleveland Newspaper Guild's 1958 awards for excellence in journalism, Joe won first place in the "best running news stor\"" category* for his scries on the so-called right-to-work amendment defeated by Ohio voters last year. 
"NORB SEIDEXSTRICKER, MARTIX RIXI, and BOB HAMILTON were among the many who answered my inquiries about a retreat at reunion time, and a Cardinal O'Hara '28 Scholarship Fund. More about this later." 
JOE DEBOTT advised your class secretary of the death of JOSEPH A. HAXEY (OBLIGATO) of Newark, N.y., on April 15 following an operation 

kn Rochester, N.Y. Joe received his law degree at Fordham in 1930 and has practiced law in Newark for 27 years. He ser\'ed as Wayne County district attorney from 1950 to 1954. Joe's military' record includes scr\*icc in the Army and Na\Y. He \\-as past president of the Wayne County Bar fVssociation. He is survived by three sisters and four brothers. Joe was always interested in '28 Class affairs. His sister wrote how much Joe enjoyed our reunions. A mass was offered for Joe by Father ANDREW MULRE/XNY, C.S.C., at the request of our Class. JOE DEBOTT mentioned that he saw DICK O'­BRIEN, GENE SCHILTZ, FRED O'REILLY at Joe's wake. GENE SCHILTZ, who i**as with our class from 1924-27, was one of the casket bearers. 
.Gene and his son arc in the heating equipment business in Newark. JOE DEBOTT also ad\^ed tliat TOM C/\NT\' was transferred recently to Long Island. Tom's only daughter is now a nun in the Dominican order. JOE DEBOTT, who is single and with the Gene\-a Federal Savings ^\ssn., attended the Army game last year. 
I Iiave a ic\v notes to supplement the report of ED McGUIRE's death in the last issue. ED RAF­TER and DICK QUINL^VN who visited the funeral home mentioned that a number of N. D. men had paid their respects, including BOB IRMIGER, *27; ED McL/\UGHLIN, '27; and JIM McNICHOLAS, '25. ED RiVFTER mentioned that ED .McGUIRE really regretted missing our 30-year reunion, but he was ill at the time. ED R/VFTER further com­

CI
lented that those with whom ED McGUIRE worked "•at '  the Securities and Excliange Commission, re­spected his ability as much as his character. 
Your Class secretary had lunch recentlv in New York with BERNIE GARBER and STEVE SHER­RY who are both with L>Tnan T. Corbin Co. I spent the evening with Steve and his wife. Steve mentioned that DAN VERRILLI of Morristown. N.J., had visited them recently. Dan is single and is in the baker\' business. 
BILL JONES and his wife Wsitcd us while in Boston lo drive their daughter Barbara home at the close of the term at Newton College. 
I trust that our fourth annual '28 Class cocktail party to be held immediately following the North­western game at the Faculty Dining Room (in the 

^I d Dining Hall) will be well attended by *28 men. their wives and friends. Our President, JIM AL­L,\N, has assured us that the crowded conditions existing last year will be avoided this year. From the Alumni Oflice: 
The Forest Hills address that heads the column above is your busy Secretar>''s only hint of a major federal administrative change that took him from Boston to New York. Secretary of Labor JAMES P. MITCHELL (LL.D. *58) re­cently announced the appointment of LOUIS F. BUCKLEY to the post of Mid-Atlantic regional director of the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics. Lou's office will be in New York 
rfHity and his region will include the states " of l[\*ew York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Mar>-land as well as the District of Colum­bia. After twelve years as a professor of econom­ics at N.D., Lou taught at other universities be­fore joining the Department of Labor, with which he's ser\'ed for the last two years as deputy regional director of the Bureau of Emplo>*mcnt Security in the New England States. He's married to the former Pauline Christianson of Mishawaka and returns frequently, most recently as presi­dent of the National Catholic Social Action Con­ference and earlier as a director of the Alumni Assn. 
Pulitzer Prize journalist ED MOWERY has been lauded by Senator Hruska of Nebraska for |hc "War on the G-Mcn" series he wrote for the Newark, N. J., Star-Ledger. The series has been printed as a senate document by the Govt. Print­ing Office and is titled "Efforts by Communbt Conspiracy to Discredit the Federal Bureau of 
ROME—Enjoying Scoglio di Frisio, Rome's version of the Huddle, are (clockwise from left foreground) Mrs. Charles Hickman, Chicago Club office; Mary Ann Pedigru, nurse from Saudi Arabia; Chris Coleman, Rome Club 2nd vice president; Susy So, Saudi Arabia; Mrs. Loretta Tcnnes, Chicago, and Mr. and Mrs. McDonnell of Detroit. 
Investigation and its Director." The articles arc expertly documented, and reading them would benefit every American. 
1 9?9 ^^^^ Staudcr Engineering BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana 

Reunion Registrants GEORGE J. AITKEN, ROBERT X. ALT, LEON 
W. ARCHER, P.\UL C. B.VRTHOLOMEW, WTL­LIA.M A. RISER, JOHN R. BROWN, PAUL A. BRYSSELBOUT, CLYDE R. BUNKER, JOHN 
F. BURKE, HENRY L. BURNS, WILLIAM T. BYRNE, VINCEN'T a\RNEY, JOHN M. CL\XC!, LOUIS S. CLE.\IEN*TS, JOHX F. COLAXGELO, S.\.M A. COL.\RUSSO, IRVIN CORCOR^VN, AVIL­LIAM M. CR.\IG, WILL.\RD E. CROTT\*, FR/\NC1S A. CROWE, GER/\LD J. CROWLEY, J.VMES M. CURRY, JOHN H. CUSH.M.AN, E. C. DeBAENE, JAMES E. DIGx\N, FRANKLYN P. DOAN, EDWARD F. DONOHOE, JOHN W. DORG.VN, WILLIA.M P. DOWDALL, JOHX ELDER, JACK P. FARR, DAVID A. FIELDS, FR.AXCIS M. FL\'NX, ANGELO P. GALDABIXI, EDMUXD C. GARRIT\', REV. JOSEPH GAR­VIX, C.S.C., LOUIS F. HAXEY, GAYLORD P. HAAS, RICHARD E. HAUGH, PHILIP C. HEM­MIXG, FR.\XK C. HEUPEL, R^VYMOXD M. HILLIARD, JOHX V. HIXKEL, PAUL D. HOLAHAX, CLx\UDE H. HORXIXG, CLAR­EXCE T. JAXS, FR.\XC1S JOXES, THO.M.\S J. JORDEN, Iw\RL A. KASCHEWSKI, JAMES E. KE.VTING. JAMES P. KENNEDY. ANTHONY 
J. KOPECKY, WTLLIAM H. KRIEG, REV. THOMAS L.\XE. CS.C , E. E.\RL LE.\CH, JOSEPH V. LENIHAN, DANIEL I. McC/\IN, C. DON McCOLL, GEORGE J. McDONNELL, BARTHOLO.MEW P. McHUGH. HUGH J. McMxVNIGAL, JOSEPH P. McNAMARA, JOHN MANNING, KARL E. .MARTERSTECK, L.\RRY MASON, JOHN C. MEx\GHER. EDWIN J. MED­LAND, FRANCIS M. METRAILER, FRAXCIS D. MEYER, LEO L. MICHUDA. EUGENE A. NHL­LIFF, JOHN F. MORAX, ELMO E. MOYER, WALTER H. MULFLUR. JOSEPH H. N.\SH, ROBERT NEWBOLD. LOUIS F. XIEZER, RUSSELL T. O'BRIEX, JOSEPH G. O'BRYAN, BERNARD M. O'CONNELL, JEROME E. OUEL­LETTE, JOHN X. PERKIXS, JOHX J. REAGER, LEO A. REES, PAUL C. ROSS, OLIVER F. SCHELL, DOXALD A. SCHETTIG, ROL.\ND" 
G. SCHL.\GER, CLETUS P. SCHXEIDER, LARRY F. STAUDER, JOHX F. SWEEXY, REV. 
L. J. THORNTON*, CS.C , JAMES W. TOBIN, ROBERT M. TROTTER, ROBERT B. VOGEL­A\'EDE, FRED J. WAGXER, PHILIP A. WALSH, JOHX P. WAVTZ, JOSEPH E. WHALEX, ROBERT P. WILLIAMS, REV. OTIS WIX­CHESTER, F. MARC WOXDERLI.V 
"My first class reunion in thirty years .. . it was great to sec and cover happenings. Evcr>'body seemed younger than I expected." BILL (ILLY) BYRNE. Illy, a secondary school teacher in San Francisco, is proud of son Tom, married and since last January- 7th father of a daughter — lily's first grandchild; and proud too of son Mike, who entered Army scr\'ice April 17, 1959. Illy*5 further sentiments: **Just to meet the • fellows was wonderful." 
"Tliis was my first visit to the Notre Dame Campus in thirty years. I hope to attend all fu­ture '29 reunions. This one was really an inspira­tion. Tlie highlight of the reunion for me was the address by Father Hcsburgh on Saturday night.*' DAVID A. FIELDS, for 29 years a lawyer with the Department of Justice, Washington, D.C Dave w:i5 accompanied by sons David Jr., age 14, and John, age 13, both graduates of St. Mark's Caton­
villc. Maryland. The boys were altar boys at FATHER LOUIS THORXTOX's Mass for the members of the class on Saturday morning. How­ard Hall Chapel was fairly well filled by attend­ance of a major portion of the 110 men of '29 who were present for their 30th reunion. Four possible reasons for Dave's delay in getting back for a reunion are: daughters ilary (9), Berna­dette (6), and sons Joseph (3) and Eugene (2). Sons Darid and John look forward to attending Notre Dame. 
FRANK CROWE of Detroit back for his first class reunion said, "It sure was nice seeing the gang again." Frank was in the running for top grandchildren honors with seven. Son Lyell, aged 29, a BCS graduate of the University of Detroit, has a daughter, Diane (5) and a son, Matthew (2). Xancy is mother of Chris (3) and Timothy (1). Judy has three cliildren, Jon, JcfTery and Cindy. Patricia is working to\\*ard a degree »t University of Detroit, and son, Kevin, 19 yean old, received his high school diploma from Salesian in 1958. "I'll be back for the Xavy game," con­cludes Frank. 
Your class secretary most sincerely acknowledges the generous and effective assistance given him by HUGH J. McMAXIGAL, P.O. Box 355, Islamorada. Florida. A number of those who attended the re­union attributed their presence to promotional work done by Hugh. An even greater nmnbcr who could not come sent him long newsy letters, including snapshots, for posting at the reunion. These letters will appear, in part, in later columns of the news of the Class of '29. If nominations are in order for a new Class Secretary, my candidate is Hugh. 
LOUIS F. HAXEY {OBLIGATO) took time from his practice of law in Xei%*ark, New York, to write to most of the members of the class before the reunion. His presence here over the week-end addd to the success of the gathering. Louts and wife, Elsie, have twins, Fatrida Ann and Rose­mary Ann, and daughter Arline. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1939 47 
FATHER OTIS \VINCHESTER formerly of El>Tia, Ohio, but now of St. Mar>-*s parish, Lorain, Ohio, was all things to all residents of Hou'ard Hall. It ^^-as he who persuaded REV. PATRICK MALLOXV, C.S.C., to sing "just one more song" on Saturday night — the Ave Maria. It was the greatest! "I have never heard anything like it," sMd tenor TOXY KOPECKY of the youthful Irish priest tenor from Crown Point. Indiana. When pictures taken of FATHER MALLOXY and his rapt audience become a\'ailablc the>* will be used in the .-\LUMNUS or in a newsletter. 
Your secretar>'*s high-light of the reunion was the harmonizing of Father O'Malley (unanimously elected honororv member of the class of '29), TONY KOPECKY, FRED WAGXER, JOHX AV.4LTZ, REV. /VXDREW MULRE.VN'Y, C.S.C., ATNCE CARNEY, GERRY OUELETTE, MARC WONDERLIN and friends. 
JIM KENNEDY of Chicago retains the distinc­tion of hanng the largest family. DR. GEORGE McDOXNELL, of Freehold, N^ew Jersey, is within one (rumor says wthin a fraction) of Jim's family of twelve children. Jim took numerous pictures; wc trust that some will appear in citlicr this issue or the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
FRANCIS MEYER, now of (Bos 5) Hammond, Indiana, took dozens of pictures. We appreciate his generosity. It is his and our intention to get a composite picture to each of you. 
JACK F.ARR, of Baldwin, New York, was an­other '29er back for the first lime. One would think that a tour of the campus would be a "first" on his agenda and on tJiat of JOHN CIAX'CI of New Britain, Connecticut, also back for his first class reunion. Actually they and most others spent most of tlic first day in a continual gabfcst with class­mates. The weather was ideal and the outdoor re­freshments popular and well-manned. 
TERRY PLUNKETT, '59, son of DON PLUN­KETT, '29 (deceased), was an cflicicnt genial at­tendant. Teriy is registered for graduate study in English at S'otre Dame. Many *29er5 inquired of Mrs. Don (Dorotliy) Plunkeit. Unfortunately she was out-of-tou-n. Colleen Plunkctt is a student at St. Mary's College. Needless to say to the readers "who are members of the class of '29, this reunion ivas not the same without our former class secre­tary, who gave so generously of his time and energy to his classmates, Don died May 19, 1957. May hU soul rest in peace'. 
The list of deceased furnished by the Alumni Office numbers 67. Two additions to tliat list arc CLYDE ATCHINSON, B.S. Chcm. Eng., Elkhart, Indiana, and F. EARL LAMBOLEY, LL.B. of Monroe, Wisconsin, whose deaths were recently reported to the j^umni Office. There are inad­vertent omissions, as TIM MOYNIHAN, for one. 
The number wlio registered for the reunion or attended part of the class functions have been variously reported as between 100 and 110. T>"pical of the numerous conflicting events of the week end «-as that of the PAUL BARTHOLOMEWS. Son TOM, '58, a na\'al ensign stationed at Pen­sacola, ^vas in to^vn for a visit at reunion time. 
Our \nce-prcsident of the South, MICKEY Mc-MAHON , wired his regrets and cancellation of reser\'ation. And on the subject of rcscn.-ations. We had 65 and an attendance at the Friday night class dinner of 98. In fact, in spite of accommo­dating 87 in the banquet room wc had to direct our Vice-president JOE WHALEN and our Treas­urer BOB VOGELWEDE and nine others to the Morris Inn dining room. In the future wc will think big, and in the meantime jog you to get those reservations in early. ^Vc Iiad twcnt>--five registered at the Law Building early Tliursday evening. The early arrivals, including JIM CURRY and GERRY CRO\\XEV^, selected rooms on Uie first floor and forfeited privacy and sleep for the duration. 
The third-floor tenants spent much of their time there. Tlie less athletic didn't climb that higli — the Saturday night strolling band found stairs no obstacle in their anti-sleep parade. 
ELMO MOYER, Director of Research for Acme Electric Corporation, Cuba, New York, said, "FATHER STEINER'S presence at the Engi­neer's Luncheon meant cverytliing to the success of that function." Wc have WALT MULFUR'S persistence to thank for Father's attendance. Walt has a son m the Seminary- on the campus, and had a fine son, Jimmy, with him at the reunion. Get­ting back to Elmo and wife Georgia, they have a daughter (Nancy) Sister Marie Eileen at tlie VIWD. Maria Convent, Erie, Pcnns>'lvanla. If by chance her classmates are not au'are that she is an ag­gressive badminton player, your class secretary can vouch for her prowess of some years ago. The Moyer's have a married daughter, Kathleen (Foley), mother of three children, and a married 
^^f^ 
BUFFALO—^Hard-working Secretary Don Jacobi, '35 (third from left), 1959 N.D. Man of the Year, receives the congratula­tions of (1. to r.) retiring President John LaVigne, '49; Alumni Secretary Jim Arm­strong, '25, and President-elect Henry Balling, Jr., '52. 
son, >nCHAEL J. MOYER, Notre Dame '55. Patricia Murray, a niece, is a sophomore at Cuba High School. Elmo and others of us missed PAT O'LEARY, JIM YATES, CHET BRUMLEVE, STEVE DURBIN and ROCCO PERONE. 
"Sorry that I cannot be with you for the re­union, there are just too many bonus babies pop­ping out of the woods this month," signed JIM GALLAGHER of the Phillies, DOC DOUGHER­TY also found It necessary to cancel reunion plans. GAY HAAS, JOHN MANNING, JOHN V. HIN­KLE, and BOB WILLIAMS of the Washington Area and others were present when LARRY MASON arrived. ED DONOHUE marveled at the "length, breadth and thickness" of LARRY MASON. Ed enjoyed his first visit in thirty years with LOU HANEY. 
JOE LENIHAN returned to the campus two Avceks after the reunion for the wedding of his niece (and goddaughter) Marilyn Dolores Frlcl to ALLAN POUTRS of the Notre Dame Foundation Office. Afarilyn Is the daughter of JAMES FRIEL, '30. 
^Ve missed REV. THEODORE MEHLING, 
DALLAS —John J. Moran, '36 (left), named **N.D. Man of the Year" for his work as chairman of Dallas' Scholarship Committee, congratulates Richard Matzner on %-inning the $2,400 a.\vaid for 1959. Richard, who graduated from Laneri High, Ft. Worth, with a 95-plus academic aver­age, will join tu'o other undergraduates at Notre Dame on club scholarships. 
C.S.C., and REV. CHRISTOPHER 0*TOOLE, 
C.S.C., %vhose numerous responsibilities to the 
Order prevented their attendance. 
The many '29ers who toured the new ^foreat'#) Seminary had only praise for the planning and thought that had gone into the beautiful building. 
Only the devoted wife of a *29er could read this column to its conclusion. These brief remarks are addressed to her, tlie one who is faced with the budget problems that are the inevitable aftermath of a long trip, "your husband is sincere in his at­tempts to put Into words just how much the trip back to Notre Dame and to his classmates meant to him. I'm no better at it than he, but I share his pleasure In reliving the minutes wc spent at this spca'al place. Thank you for him and for the rest of us who so enjoyed his good company." From the Alumni Oflice: 
Congratulations to JOSEPH P. McN.VMAR^X, re^^ cently elected a vice president of Bridgeport Brass-^ Co. by the firm's board of director. Joe, formerly assistant secrctar>' and counsel, is now vice presi­dent In charge of personnel, which includes indus­trial, employee, community and public relations. Before joining the Bridgeport Brass legal dcpt. in 1946, he was a colonel and chief of the legal branch of Army Ordnance. Previously, as Indiana's deputy attorney general in his native Indianapolis, he drafted several model statutes. 
Congrats also to Westchester banker ILVROLD 
J. MARSHALL, recently elected to the board of directors of the Northern ^Ycstchestc^ United Fund. 
1930 ^^'''^^^ Piunkett 
O'Shaughncssy Hall 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Reunion Registrant VINCENT J. McCUE 
CHET ASHMAN ^vants to say a special word of thanks to the 1930 fellou-s: 
"Our Fall Festix-al to raise funds for our new churdi was a huge success, and thanks so much to all the fellows in our class who contributed to our fund. I am happy to say that JIM BURKE of Oklahoma City, Okla., ^von the big prize of t\vo tickets to the Orange Bowl game and §200 in-v cash expense money. Since Oklahoma playci^; Syracuse in the Bowl, the fates seemed kind to Jim. 
"We got started on our church in August (1958) .. . I was sure glad to see Archbishop JOHN O'HARA named a Cardinal, and outside of Stan Musial that is the first Cardinal I personally have ever known." 
BOB HOLMES in South Bend sent along a wel­come note: 
"A note from PAT HrVNLON at Christmas said that he was in Rome last year. ^Vhilc there he talked to BROTHER LEO and learned that FATHER STEINER and FATHER GRIMM were there. 
"Pat was in Mexico during the year and is now on his way to China. He sure gets around. ^ ^ 
"Wc were vcr>- much shocked to hear of KAR1_/ ^VEIGAND*s fatal heart attack last week (in Jan­uarv'). In spite of the rough weather I managed to join in the rosary for the repose oE his soul." 
JIM XAV.ARRE fills us in on some Interesting news items in Southern Michigan: 

"Have had little or no contact with you or N.D. since my son was there in '54. At that time he left N.D. for the army to serve his t%vo years. He's been back from Germany t%vo years already. Spent those years at Olivet College and Is now married and working in Monroe. However, this note was to inform you of the death, May 11, of Mrs. O. L. McKillip, mother of my wife, Ruth, (a 1928 graduate of St. Mar%-'s) and also th^^ mother of J. HALE McKILLIP, '27. "Jean," a--> he was kno\%-n then, died in California in 1948. Mrs. McKillip was buried In Omaha, Neb., on May 20. 
**Snce 1954 I have been connected with Banker's as an agent. I still live in Monroe, but work out of the Toledo District ofHcc. I like It much better than the beer distributing business, which as far as I am concerned went to pieces during the strike of 1953 in Milu-aukce. I then had Miller High Life and Burger beers. I am better physically qual­ified to sell insurance than handle beer cases any­\vay. 
"^ry older brother. JOSEPH A. NAVARRE, '26, resigned as insurance commissioner for the State of ^[ichigan on Jan. 1 of this year to return to pri^^ vate law practice in Jackson, Mich. He was com"--^ missioner some eight years. 
"Our N.D. Club in Monroe has not been active for several years but we hope to revive actirities 

48 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September^ 1959 
in the near future as some of the members expect to have sons at N. D. next year after graduation from Catholic Central. My youngest son, Peter, is ^^one of them. Since I've seen you I'm a grandfather 
^^twice. My oldest daughter has two boys 6 and 7 years old. Before long I will have only the baby girl left with us; she's 10 now and growing up too fast to suit us. 
"So much for that chit-chat — but just a word about 1960. I hope to be present for our 30th re­union and hope for many visits with many old friends. May run into you next fall at a game or two and until then the very best to you and all of our class. Please remember me to FATHER '*LOU** THORNTON." 
TIM TOOMEY, vice-president for our class in the eastern area, turns in this newsy summary of doings out east: 

^- *'lt was good to learn you were able lo take a 
^pbusman's holiday and get to sec a few football games during your Christmas holiday in Florida. You must be the runner-up to the laic beloved "CHUCK" ROHR as the member of the Class of 1930 who has witnessed the greatest number of Xotrc Dame football games since graduation. 
"While you were enjoying the sunny breezes in the Southland, ^ve took a few trips up to the Berk­shire Alps to enjoy the winter sports. We got our­selves a Rex Harrison shooting hat and a pair of ski rompers which is the proper attire for the snow>- trails. 
•'Siucc we laj-t wrote yoxi, \\\c fathers of two class members passed a\vay, TIMOTHY PREECE in Nebraska, the father of DR. JOHN PREECE of 

• Trenton, N.J., and J. FRANK DRISCOLL, SR., who died here in Boston on January 6. 1959. Our prayers for these fmc gentlemen and all other de­ceased relatives of all classmates. "A word to those on the Eastern Seaboard. If misfortune in any manner befalls your family, con­tact us at 12 'Windcrcmere Avenue, Arlington 74, Mass. AVe have the class mailing list and we arc able to get in touch with friends and other class­mates. "Wc had the sad task of flying down to New York City to pay our respects to a good and great friend, JACK L/WELLE, '28, who died suddenly from a heart attack on December 4 at his home in Hempstead, New York. "Trigger" Jack helped this here guy many times in the years since our first 
^^eeting on the Campus during frcstunan days. 
"Jack spent most of his life making people happy and doing favors for others, asking none for himself. 
"The New York Club, the Connecticut Commit­tee and the Army Athletic j;\ssociation have pooled their respective talents and arc sponsoring a JACK LAVELLE Memorial Fund to Insure the education of Jack's two promising youngsters. If you have a few spare ones and want to do something big, wc urge you to give it to the memory of a Notre Dame man whose monogram was embroidered on a heart as large as his body. 
"We chatted with the following at the wake: 

JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., '15; JOHN L.-VW, JOE 
^RIEL , '29; (his wife Mary and daughter Irene) 
^N'ARREN FOGEL and frau; GEORGE WINKLER 
and wife; TIM O'ROURKE and EHrabeth; Mr. and Mrs. JOE ABBOTT; JOHN L.\W, HENRY FREY and son: D/\N HALPIN, '31; JOHN BURNS, '31; VIC FISHER, '28; ROY MOCK, '28, who came on from Minneapolis; JIM QUINN, '27; BERNIE GARBER, '28; HUGH DEVORE, '33; FATHER HAMMER, '35; ED NE^VHER, '35; BILL GILLESPEE, '35; ED MAHON, '31; ED CUNNINGHAM, '31; and BILL KELLY, '28. Many other alumni attended funeral home and the requiem scn'Jccs. Included were: FATHER LOU THORNTON, '28; BUS REDGATE and FATHER JOHN BOL/VND, '22. 
^ k "Word from New York informs us JOE LORDI was chosen president of the world-famed New York Athletic Club. Joe has been a member of the Winged Foot Club since graduation, having repre­sented NYA C on the baseball field and squash rackets courts. Joe richly deser\*cs this great honor. 
"\Ve had a postcard from the Marco Polo family (Liz and TL\I O'ROURKE) who took a post-Christmas Mediterranean cruise and visited a^RDINAL 0*HARA*s titular church while in Rome. 
"FATHER JIM RIZER was recently confined to Veteran's Hospital in Washington and one of the consultants assigned to examine him was none other than "GR/\NDPA" JIMMY LYONS, ex. '32, 
^l e Old Holyokc, Massachusetts, Steeple Chaser, 
^aw professionally known as DR. JAMES J. LY0NS » one of the Capital's leading eye, nose and throat specialists. Father Jim has returned to his residence at St. Mar>''s Parish, Alexandria, Vir-
JAMES C. MacDEVITT, JR., '35 As New York Pre.xj-, a Taxed Attorney 

Guiding the activities of more than 2,500 Notre Dame men in the Greater New York area as president of the N. D. Club of New York is Jim MacDevitt, whose in­terest in the University has been long and lively. 
Jim is a partner in the firm of Mac-Devitt & LaBarbera, tax attorneys, with offices in the Empire State Building. A native New Yorker and a graduate of La Salle Alilitary Academy, he matriculated in accounting, worked simimers with \'arious New York firms and was active in several campus organizations. After graduation he worked as an accountant for Price Water­house, U. S. Rubber Co. and S. D. Leides­dorf in New York City before setting up his own accouning firm on Fifth Avenue in 1938. 
Joining the army in 1942, Jim ser\-ed as a staff officer in North .Africa and Europe during \V.\V. II. .After separation as a ma­jor he worked for the Internal Revenue Office, was graduated from New York Uni­versity Law School and opened an office on Broadway as a C.P.A. specializing in tax audits before setting up his law firm. A for­mer lecturer on taxation at the Graduate School of Business Administration, N.Y.U., he is a member of the tax committees of the Nassau Bar Association and the Nas­sau-Sufi'olk Chapter, New York Society of Certified Public Accountants, and is a fre­quent lecturer on federal taxation before \-arious professional groups. Jim's wife, the former Katherine FitzGibbon of Scranton, Pa., is also a member of the New York Bar and was formerly secretary to Judge Learned Pland of the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 
The MacDcvitts live in Great Neck, Long Island, with their three sons and arc mem­bers of St. Aloysius Parish. 
ginia, and was much improved when he last vrrote. 
"LONG JACK CASSIDY and yours truly had a 

fine dinner together before the Christmas holidays. 
John has one son at the University and another is 
preparing to enter. ICs fellow townie, MIKE 
BISCKO, also has-a lad on the Campus. 
"Jack, ED CONROY and JOHN MORAN plan 

a get'together with us when John re%'isits the Bay 
State in a short while. 
"Incidentally, the local newspapers have noted 

the efficiency with which the administration oC the 
City Manager's ofKce ia Medford has pTogressed 
since ED CONROY took over less than one year 
ago. The Conroys have found a suitable permanent 
home in Medford, Kfassachusetts, and will welcome 
all class travelers with their omi trailen. 
"BERNIE CONROY postcarded us at Christinas 

and said hts son, BERNIE, JR., had entered the 
Capuchin order to prepare for the priesthood. 
"We learned from friends our old side kick, PAT 

ILASTINGS, had a short hospital confinement, but 
he is feeling better now. 
"We hear regularly from LOUIS BUCKLEY, '28, 

who is Deputy U. S. Labor Commissioner for New 
England District. (See '28 column.) Lou was one 
of our economic instructors during our senior year. 
All the class news chroniclers should take an orien­
tation course from this journalist on how to gather 
news. If a classmate in Little South America accom­
plishes something worthwhile or a member of class 
of 1928 becomes a grandfather, Buckley knows about 
it the following morning. What a man! Never too-
busy to give of his time for the things which are 
for the good of Notre Dame. 
"We trust you ^rill remind the brethren that we 

have an important class reunion coming up in 1960 
and that there should be some suggestions in from 
the brothers on ways and means of making this 
gathering the best. Maybe someone among the class 
will donate a lodge near the Campus where social 
security collectors, widowers, bachelors and mem­
bers who have bad to turn over their lodgings to 
their grandchildren can spend their last days in 
serenity. Encourage the lads to send in money and 
suggestions for the Reunion in 1960. 
"AVc received a nice note from His Eminence 

JOHN a\RDINAL 0'HAR.A at the time of Hs 
investltme. CARDIN.AL O'HARtV \vas responsible 
for us securing our first employment on the Cam­
pus. AVc later served as a news delivery boy for 
him when he took his famed Bulletin to the Dean 
at St. Mary's when we resided tlicre during our 
senior year. 
"A prayer is our good ^vish to you and yours. 

Keep the faith!" 
From the Alumni Office: 
"BOB" SOPER, superintendent of occupational 

therapy at Wassau State School, has been elected 
second vice president of the New York State Civil 
Service i\ssociation. 
FATHER CHARLES A. LEE, chaplain at the Josephine Baird Home in New York City, celebrated his Silver Jubilee on June 24. Fatlier Lee is also director of St. Vincent de Paul Sodety for the Archdiocese of New York. He spent 14 years teach­ing at Cathedral College minor seminary before going to Josephine Baird. His most memorable ex­perience u-as celebrating Mass at the Holy Sep­ulchre. 
1031 James T. Doylc 
• ^ ^ • 902 Oakton St. Evanston, Illinois 
The last time I sat down to prepare the 1931 news for the ALUMNUS, the snow was about a foot deep in this area. Would that I had a bit of that today to make me comfortable. Due to the rush of business I had to forego the last issue of the ALUMNUS. Tliis was a bit embarrassing par­ticularly when I received a nice letter from FRAJIK a\RIDEO telling how much he enjoys the '31 column: 
"This piece of correspondence will no doubt shock you, but at the same time I want you to know tliat I have been faithfully reading your communique in the ALUilNUS under the Class of '31. 
"Unfortunately because of my particular hobby in the fall of assisting in radio broadcasts of football games, I have not been able to make it back to school. Then during the month of June when most of our reunions arc held, wc have a thirty-day drive — Company practice — which keeps c\-ery man on the job every day of the month. Yet evety so often someone is kind enough to have my name placed in the ALUMNUS, such as the Alunml Of* fice in the last issue, and I appreciate it very much. I know that you are very busy, and yet you have 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September^ 2959 49 
been very faithful in keeping up with the news 
on our classmates which I have enjoyed tremen­
dously. 
"In closing may I say that I hope you don't 

lose any time in getting us the news as you have 
because I know evcr>'one appreciates it ver\' much. 
I will attempt to keep you informed of some of 
the Xotre Dame men in this area because we are 
accumulating quite a few/' 
It is mv sad dulv to report the death of RICH­ARD ClJvRK BENKENDORF early in January. Clark was my roommate our Sophomore year when we Hved in room 340 over the Morrisscy Hall Chapel. He finished his Pre-mcd at Notre Dame and took Medicine in Chicago. .After interning here, he moved to Bushncll, Illinois, where he ^TIS in charge of the McDonough County Municipal Tuberculosis Sanitarium. He was on tlie stafT of St. Francis Hospital at Nfacomb. The last time many of us saw him was the Sunday morning of the Reunion week end under the Lyons .irch. Clark registered his son, Dick, that morning, lie will be a senior this coming year. Richard is survived by his widow. Celeste, and seven children. A letter ex­tending the s>'mp3thy of the class and a ^fass Card has been sent to Mrs. Bcnkendorf. S>Tnpathy of the Ckiss is also extended to EDDIE RYAN in the loss of hb father in January*. Among the late arriWng Christmas cards was one from Hx\RRY KENNEDY way down in South -America. I have run into Harry's friend, GEORGE COSTELLO, a few times recently and he is wondering how LOUIS GODOY made out in the recent Cuban military- acti\it>\ 
I had a letter from JOHN DORSCHEL saying he would be in town for N-A. D. A. convention in early February*. John is president of the New York State .Automobile Dealers .Assn. We did not have a chance to get together although I did talk to him on the phone. He mentioned seeing BOB CALL.AH.AN recently. Bob's son recently won the Figure Skating Championship in that area. MARTY DO\\XING is well and recovering from a recent illness. JOHN C. SULLIVAN took time out to send a note announcing the birth of their second daughter. Lisa. They now have t^vo boys and two girls. I am 50rr>* you did not add ncu's of other '31crs in the Lauderdale area. Perhaps you can do that this summer, John. I had a letter from DON OTOOLE telling of his meeting a man who was secretary- to ANGUS D. McDONALD, President of the Southern Pacific during our school days. He is the man who delivered the Commence­ment .Address that hot Sunday afternoon in 1931. Don sent on part of it with the comment that ^fr. McDonald was a bit mild in his description of the depression. I am sure many of us were well aware of that. Don, who has been active in the develop­ment of the Calumet port area, was elected pres­ident of the Mississippi Valley Association. Speak­ing of Commencements, GIL SEAALAN is at Notre Dame this week end for the Traduation of lus son, Michael. I see EDDIE AGNEW occasionally, but he took time to send the following note early this year: 
*'Now that the rush is over I can take time out to do something I've wanted lo do for qu'tc a while. And that is write you and thank you for the won­derful 'write-up' you gave me in the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. It was vcr>' much appreciated by us all. 
"Just in passing I want to tell you that we have two boys at N.D. One a freshman and the other in second year and lie is in 'good old Lyons Hall.* No, neither of them are playing ball. The oldest was the one that has ability but lacks the want to kill. So maybe we're better ofT and I'm sure I can enjoy the games better, knowing that he is not out there. ^Ve also have four girls and another prospect for N.D. in about twelve years, I hope. 
"Well, Jim, thanks again. And I hope if you're in the neighborhood of Old Orchard, you'll stop in again and say hello. I miss getting to the gath­erings, but maybe this year I might get some time off and sec you." 
Seen at Unix'ersal Notre Dame Night this year were BERT METZGER, ED RYAN, GIL SEA­MAN, RAY COLLINS, AL STEPAN, CARL CRONIN, DON O'TOOLE, NORB STAR. ED AGNEAV. JIM MULVANEY, VINC BUSCH, TOM CONLEY and JIM DOYLE. I sent JIM McQUAID some subscription business recently and received a note from his wife, Marie, sajing Jim was going into the hospital for observation. No further report as yet. Please remember him in your prayers. SPIKE SULLI\^AN telephoned from tlic airport May lOth. He and TOM MONAHAN had been making their usual spring inspection of foot­ball on the campus and reported seeing CARL CRONIN and FRANK LEAHY. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
CALUMET REGION—Principals at Sports Night in Hammond, Ind., joining 400 guests in a rousing chorus of the Victory March, are (I. to r.) Tim Galvin; sports editors Norm Worry and John Whitaker, program moderators; Club President and m.c Bill 0*Connor; head football coach Joe Kuharich; assistant coaches Bill Daddio, Dick Evans and Joe Scudero. 
f) 

I understand BUCKY O'CONNOR and his wife considers the college students of today our great­saw Mrs. Gertrude Hickman, secretary in the N. D. est hope for world peare. Club of Chicago office, off on a trip to Europe in 
FRANK S. McCULLOUGH resigned In July as April. Buck>-'s son, Jim, was graduated in the 1959 a state senator and accepted an appointment by class. AL STEP.-\S' was recently elected president New York Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller as judge of the board of directors of Lyric Opera ^Vssocia­of the Westchester County Court, Active in New tion of Chicago. The JERRY DESMONDS recent­York politics since 1938, he has been Rye city ly visited RAY COLLINS. They have a new grand­super\isor, assemblxinan. senator and chairman of child and I understand two other daughters are the Republican State Convention. A partner of nuns. Gerry has been elected Secretary' of the Kal­Barber & McCullough, Rye law firm, lie Is direc­amazoo Alumni Club. Which brings up JOE tor and trustee of several banks and an officer of BL/\NEY who also mentioned Jerr\- In a recent other companies. He and his wife Lovedy live In phone conversation. 

Rye with three children, Francis, IG, James, 14— TOM GOLDEN is now living in Pierce City, and Judith Ann, 13. '.^J Missouri, and sent the following letter: "I have been planning this letter for a long time. 
A Chicago Tribune column recently enquired It Just seems there is so much to do. Our TV is 
about the authenticltv of a legend about a religious out of order so you may credit that situation for 
medal given to L.ARRY MULLINS by .Mrs. this letter. 
KNUTE ROCKNE, which passed successively (and "I have been living here in Pierce City since 
fatally) through the hands of Wendell Willkle, November 1957. I married a widow with six chil­
Ernie Pylc and Tyrone Power. How 'bout It, dren ranging in age from 4 to 13. Maj-be I wrote 
Moim? 
to you about this before. Seems like I did. .At any 
rale — I am retired now (compuIsor>') and we arc 
all getting along fine. The kids all like me and 
193 2 Jai"es K. Collins 
call me Daddy and I sure enjoy them. "Wc have a big house here, and if any of my old 
3336 Kenmore Road friends arc passing through this way I'd like to see Shaker Heights, Ohio them. (Enclosed Is Mass check for $5.00.) "I have been In Kansas City on a number of 
From the .Aluninl Office: '-</ occasions but I have never been able to look up Tlie death of REV. VINCENT P. BRENNAN, any N.D. men. If any of my old friends live there 
as JIM COLLINS reported in. the last issue, was or in St. Louis, I'd like to hear from them. widely mourned. Tlic texts of two moving eulogies 
"I wrote to JIM ARMSTRONG to tell him of were received by the Alumni Office, but space would my Mother's passing and also asked him if there not permit their being printed in the ALUMNUS. were any Notre Dame men in Monett, Verona or One \\as delivered by Bishop John J. AVrlght any of the surrounding towns. I am Deputy Grand of Pittsburgh at Father Brennan's funeral. The Knight of the Verona Council. And local command­other tribute was paid at Father Brennan's own er of the V.F.\\'. Post. I belong to the Kiwanls Holy Sepulchre Church in Glade Mills, Pa., by club and at exchange meetings I am always on the REV. PHILIP SCHAERF, CS.C , director of the lookout for someone from the school of Our Lady." Lourdes Confraternity and pastor of Sacred Heart, 
Tlianks, Tom, for the news and your contribu­using Father Brennan's own words of a year before 
tion to the Mass Fund. Please remember our de­as a text to point up the priestly dedication of the parted classmates in your prayers. Thanks to those departed pastor. .^ . who helped furnish news for the column. I hope 
.Apparently nobodv has mentioned that Bishop next time I will have the pleasure of thanking PAUL J. HALLINAN and Most Rev. LORAS T. 
many more for their letters. A wonderful summer LANE have made the Class of '32 a leader In the to all. 
production of prelates. If it could follow the Class From the Alumni Office: of 'II and produce another CrVRDINAL O'HARA, DON O'TOOLE, mentioned above, president of the title would be secure. 
Pullman Trust & Savings Bank, the Calumet Re­gion Congress and the Mississippi Valley Assn., .A --pot check on just a few of the local clerg>' 
has been awaiting a U.S. Supreme Court deci­would reveal FATHER GEORGE BAXTER still sion which might in\'alidate the Illinois Bank laboring at St. Patrick's, FATHER JOSEPH PAYNE Holding Co. .Act and permit his associated Brac-beaming In his beautiful new Little Flower Church 
bum Securities Corp. to form a chain of state a mile cast of the campus, and FATHER LOUIS banks. PUTZ teaching and running a three-ring circus 
as author, publisher and apostolic gadlly. 
SISTER MARY PATRICE, who look her mas­ter's with honors in the summer of "JI, ncvrr left It is doubtful that any of the aforementioned, 
N.D. in a sense. Notre Dame is the name of her or any denizen of Corby Hall will be more Inte.^^ order and tlie name of the college In Ohio where estcd In the football fortunes of JOE KUHARICH she's .director of the social science department. and his warriors than GEORGE IZO, SR., In the She told a Cleveland News Interviewer that she next few months. 
193 3 Joseph A. McCabc 
• '*'^ 2215 Lincoln W Evanston, Illinois 
Reunion Registrants ROGER P. BRENNAN, FRANCIS X. FALLON 
From the Alumni Oflice: 

M. J. {JOE) FOLEY, Vancouver, B.C., one­time Floridan, was host in June to REVS. FRANK CAVANAUGH, C.S,C., '23, and GEORGE HOL­DERITH, C.S.C., '18. The Notre Dame priests were on a trip in connection with the NCAA golf tournament in Oregon. Father Cavanaugh reports that Joe rolled out all the red carpets, and made their stop in Vancouver a memorable one. Joe is in the lumber business with his brother, HAROLD 
^EOLEY, '21, who was recently announced as a ^Tiembcr of tlic University's Associate Board of Lay Trustees. 
Classmates who have seen or heard from ED MASSA may not have heard about hts fascinating visit to the city of Horta on Fayal island in the Azores and his subsequent travels in Portugal last September. Ed was a member of a committee rep­resenting Californians of Portuguese birth or an­cestry who had raised $40,000 for disaster relief. On Fayal the committee was the guest of the governor of the district of Horta, to whom, after several conferences, they entrusted the funds. The benevo­lent mission appropriated 250,000 contos to rebuild a school demolished by continuous volcanic erup­
tions, earmarking the remainder for distribution 
^f:nong those whose homes and farms were de­stroyed. "This," Ed wrote, "will scr\'c as a mon­umental reminder of the love people share In America for their distressed brethren in any part of the world.** 
Ed's visit was widely publicized in Portugal, where he represented U.S. industrial Interests and also gathered material for a novel about Our Lady of Fatima (tentative title: "And the Blind Shall See") on which he has been working. In Lisbon he conferred with Prime Minister Dr. Antonio dc Oliveira Salazar; with the new President of the Portuguese Republic, Admiral Amcrico Tomas, and with His Eminence Manuel Gonsalves Cardinal Cerejetra, Patriarch of Lisbon, whom Ed had ac­
companied on a tour of California in 1933. Ed was 
^piso the guest of his cousin Commodore M. M. Sarmento Rodrlgucs, former governor of Portu­guese Guinea and overseas minister, now head of the Nax-al Academy and director of shipping. 
As an ofltcial guest Ed was provided with a chauf­fcurcd car and the guidance of experts from x'arious ministries. Beside a stay in Lisbon, visits to Villa Vicosa and the Ajuda Palace, usually reser\ed for ro>'alty, he toured Sintra, Erccira, Mafra, Fatima and the University of Coimbra. 
I 934 T. Edward Carcy r^T 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
A Reunion Registrants 
ANDREW C. AUTH, WILLLWJ E. BECKLEY, HARRY W. BLACK . FRANCIS J. BRADY, THOMAS J. BROBSON, LEO J. BRUGGER, THOMAS B. BURKE, EDWARD J. BUTLER, ROBERT \\\ BUTLER, THOMAS E. BYRNE, ROBERT M. aVHILL, RICHARD G. CVHILL, 
T. EDWARD aAREY, LAWRENCE E. CAR­PENTER, JOHN F. CARR, CHARLES H. CAR­ROLL, PATRICK J. a\RROLL, JOSEPH A. a\ULFIELD, ROBERT C. CHENAL, JOSEPH 
C. CLARK, ROBERT L. CLARK, JOHN E. CLAUDER, ROBERT L. COLGAN, WILLIAM J. COLLINS, JOSEPH E. CONDON, EMMETT V. 
^ONKLING, GILBERT COYNE, CLYDE P. 
KRAINE , JR., RUDY CRNKOVIC, LEO CROWE, ED CUN>:iNGHAM. JAMES CURRAN, THO­M.\S C. DAVID, HAROLD V. DESNOYERS, JOHN DEVINE, CHARLES DiMATTEO, JOHN DONNELLY, DONALD DUGAN, JAMES DUNI­GAN, ^VALTER J. DUPRAY, \VILLIAM DUSCH, R^\LPH ELSE, JAMES E. FAG.AN, VINCENT J. FEHLIG, JOHN FISHER, F. FITZMAURICE, ROBERT FITZSIMON, JAMES FORREST, DAVID J. FROEHLICH, THADDEUS GABRE­SKI, JAMES T. GARTL.\ND, JAMES H. GLEA­SON, JOHN J. GLEASON, JR., JOHN GOR­MAN, EDWIN GRAHAM, THOMAS GRIMES, LAWRENCE T. GROSS, JACK HAGAN, ROBERT HAMILTON, JOHN HANLEY. JOSEPH HAN-
IJtATTY, JORDAN HARGROVE, CHARLES 
•lAYES, LEO HENDRICKS, D. BERNARD HENNESSY, JOHN J. HENRY, TED HIEGEL, JAMES HOGAN, EUGENE J. HOLLAND, EDWIN HOLMAN, FRANK HONERKAMP, 
^VYOMING—Smiling participants in the First Annua! Notre Dame Night of the newly formed Wyoming N.D. Club last spring in Casper, Wyo. 
JOSEPH HORRIGAN, WILLIAM W. HUIS­KING, FRANK JEHLE, ROBERT K. KELLEY, 
E. W. KENEFAKE, WALTER KENNEDY, ERWIN KIEP, HENRY KIJEWSKI, JOHN KIPLE, GEORGE W. KOHS, ROBERT KOLB, ED^VARD KRAUSE, JOHN W. LACEY, ED LEE, CLYDE LEWIS. WILLIAM F. LEWIS, BOB LOCHER, JOHN LOGAN, FRANK McGVNN, ROBERT J. McDONOUGH. FR.\NK McGAH-REN, ALBERT McGUFF. JOHN McKIERNAN, JOHN McL.\UGHLIN, RICHARD McMONAGLE. JOHN L. McNERNEY. GEORGE P. MALONEY, WlLLrVRD MALOY, WILLIAM M.\NARD, PAUL MANOSKI, EDWARD F. MANSFIELD, AN­THONY F. MARR.\, JOHN B. MARTIN. GEORGE C. MARTINET. FR.\N MATTHYS, FRANK E. MESSINA, MELVIN MEYERS, CUR­TIS K. MILLHE.\M, NORBERT MIZERSKI, RICHARD MOLIQUE, ALBERT MONACELLI, KEN MON'TIE, ED MORAN. RAY MORRISSY, JIM MORRISON, REV. JAMES MOSCOW, WIL­LIAM J. MOTSETT, ROBERT MOYNAHAN, JOHN I. MULLEN, RICHARD W. MULLEN, EDWARD J. MULVIHILL, WILLIAM R. MUR-Pm' , JOSEPH F. NOVAK, THO.MxVS W. OAKES, EDWARD J. O'BRIEN, FR.\NCIS F. O'BRIEN, GEORGE 0'BRIF.N, JAMES O'BRIEN, JOHN­O'CONNOR JOHN C. O'CONNOR, RICHARD O'CONNOR, JOHN 0'H.\NLON. REV. ED­WARD O. O'.MALLEY, L.\RRY O'NEILL, 
STEWART OSBORN, WILLIAM OTOOLE, JOHN PA\T.ICK, AUGUST PETRILLO. JOE QUAR­TUCH, JAMES QUINN, JACK QUIRK. FRANK R^\DKE. NORB R.\SCHER, VINCENT REISH­MAN, RUSSELL B. RICKUS, Mx\URICE RI­G/\NTE. CLYDE ROBERTS, F. W. ROBISON, HARRY J. ROCKETT, JR., HARVEY ROCK­WELL, FR/\NK SANDERA, NORBERT SCHEN­KEL. REV. GEORGE SCHIDEL. C.S.C., REV. EDWARD J. SEWARD, ELI SHAHEEN, WIL­LIAM SHERIDAN. J. ALBERT SMFFH. JOSEPH 
C. STRAUSS, WILLIAM SUEHR, FRED R. SULLIVAN, JOHN H. SULLn^VN, ROBERT SULLIVAN, MrrCHELL C. T.-VCKLEY, JOHN TOBIN, R.\YMOND W. TROY. JOSEPH VAS­CHAK, AUGUST VON BOECKLIN. ED \^ZRAL, ROBERT WARD. FRED WEIDNER, GEORGE E. \\*ENZ, FRANK WIDGER. JOHN WOLFE. JOHN WOLIw\CK. WILLIAM YEAGER, JOHN YOUNGEN, a\R L ZIMMERER 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
The Class of 1934's answer to Robin Hood. BOB C.\HILL. was up to his old tricks as local chairman of the Silver Jubilee Reunion. Bob staged a holdup a la Jesse James at Lyons Hall, but he followed It up with some unique festivities throughout the week end that made it a memorable 25lh. The Friday night dinner was reported to have a very entertaining program featuring oralor>- by ED KRcVUSE and company, some outrageous pictorial tomfoolery about certain classmates and a special screening of "Rocknc of Notre Dame." An in­exhaustible "soda fountain" in the hall distinguished '34 from the bccr>- proletariat out on the quad. Tlie silver jubilarians were exclusive guests of 
FATHER HESBURGH for luncheon on Saturday. Their ou*n brass band (the Vlgeslmoquinquennial Marching Society) and accordionist made them the most musical group on the campus. 
LOUIS CLARK wrote in to inform us that his son Bill, scheduled to enter Notre Dame this fall, got the call to Join the Xavcrian Brothers and will have entered their Novitiate on July 8. This stiU leaves the possibility that the younger Clark may become an N.D. man via summer school some day. 
|09 C Franldyn C Hochreiter '**' 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Md. 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
Secretary FRANK HOCHREITER, winding up the spring season of draymah with the 'Vagabond Theater In Baltimore, vacationed in June at the .Aztec in Miami Beach, Fla., and has probably been all wTapped up in summer stock ever since. But you'll be hearing from "Hoch," especially if you didn't fill out his survey questionnaire. He*s work­ing hard in the inter^-als for a bang-up reunion next June. 
FRANK DUNN and RAY CERENT) should be welcomed aboard, having been elected to member­ship in the Association by the .-Mumnt Board in the June meeting. 
Heartiest congratulations to J. FRANK HOLO­HAN, the class ^-aledictorian. for his latest distinc­tion. Back in June he was elevated \ice president of the National Bank of ^Vestcheste^. ^Vhite Plains, N.Y. He joined the bank on June 15, having left his position as super­visory review examin­er for the Board of Governors of the Fed­eral Reserve System in Washington, D.C. A native of Gales-burg. III., Frank has been with the .Feder­al Reserve since grad­
uation and recently was in charge of member banks in three of the twelve Federal Reserve Dis­tricts, Boston, Philadelphia and San Francisco. Since 19o6 he has handled special assignments for the board and since 1954- he has been teaching in the Inter-Agency Bank Examination School. 
National Bank of ^Vestchester, inddentally, seems to have an affinity for N. D. bankers. Pres­ident is HAROLD J. AL\RSH.\LL, '29. 
103 A Robert F. Ervin 
•"* 1329 Kensington Rd. Grosse Pointc Park, Mich. 

From the Alumni Office: WILLIA.M A. GOTTSACKER, who has long run a thriving agency in Sheboygan, Wis., is now 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 2959 51 
president of the Wisconsin Association of Insur­
ance Agents. His picture adorned a recent cover 
of Northwest Insurance magazine. 
ADELBERT C. BAUR has been appointed gen­
eral sales manager of Ux\RCO Incorporated, and 
now directs the business form manufacturer's 
600-man sales force. 
Starting as a sales­
man twenty years 

ago, lie has been 
manager of the De­
troit district, the 

eastern dixision, and 
the Chicago, Great 
Lakes and Midwest 
rccions. For ihi: last 
five years lie has bcpn 
assistant genera! sales 
manager. A native Chi­
cagoan, he has been 
active with the De­
troit and Chicago N.D. Clubs. He and Mrs. Bsur 
live in Wilmeitc, 111., with their six chilaicii. 
1927 Joseph P. Quinn 
•''*' P.O. Box 275 Lake Lcnapc Andovcr, N. J. 
.Again, tlic news keeps getting slimmer and 

slimmer. 
A report for tlic Cinc>' area by WALT NIEN­

ABER brings us up to date on the operators in the 
Queen city. \\*alt m-t quite a few of the coaches 
at the NC.\.-\ Convention along with FATHER 
NED JOYCE to review the class items and 
start getting ready for our Big 25tli which will 
be along a lot faster tlian many of you think. 
BOB BURKE is reported having deduct item No. 
7 early this year and winning the race in Clncy, 
Bob is in the livestock business. BILL PYLE has 
been in Detroit the past four years. BERT 
SCHLOEMER is in the advertising business in 
Cinc>' and doing ver\' well. Should be reporting 
to our advertising V.P., Scribe Foley, in the flan­
nel suit district of New York City. JERRY 
(JAZZ) GOHMAN has settled in the country* out­
side of the city limits and can now be classified 
as a real "squire." I wonder how he changed from 
a beer thumb to a "green" thumb to be a squire. 
Walt states that he could have used "BUCKY JORDAN" during the convention when he and BOB CAHILL spent some time in the Kentucky spots. Seems as though while in the Na\'y in Bos­ton, Bucky had a habit of keeping tlie boys up late. At the Universal N.D. Night at Mayfair Farms, West Orange, the New York contingent •\v'as %\ell represented. Big "Elk" JOE McNALLY, who is larger than ever, led the group which included JOE DEFR.ANCO, H.\RVEY FOSTER, JIM Mc-GOLDRICK. You can sec Joe's \-isit ^^-as a well guarded one. He can still talk as fast as ever, but states that he still lets Brother Bill take the blue ribbons. Bill is reported as the bachelor of llie family roving all over the country teaching and shoiWug organizations how to raise funds for any project you can think of. It was reported that Fidel Castro was thinking of having Bill as an associate. 
Finally caught up with TOM HUGHES, who still owes mc a reporting letter. Tom is with Continental Can and with sales promotion, gets all over the country*, which only a large operator like Tom can do. He meets up with JOE SCHIL­LING on some of his jaunts. 
One item I overlooked was a visit in Miami 

with GEORGE BONFIELD and the housefull. 
George really has it made with his family, and the 
boat supply business tliat he is in will prosper with 
the traveling public we have today. It was good 
to meet another fellow who has a desk piled high 
•with papers and two plioncs ringing. 
We have a change on MARK LONERG.AX, from Canada to Park Forest, Chicago, III. Let's hear on the particulars, Mark. Also LEX TOSE has moved from the Phila. suburbs to New York City. Then we have a big jump being made by ^VALT TROY from Ohio way out to Spartan Drive, San Diego, California-
It is \«th deep regret that we report the passing of LUKE TIERN.AN in April. You may miss this In the other items. Luke will be remembered by all the politicos who operated at tlie "U " over the years. Luke knew all the angles on campus poli­tics and had a lot of friends who w*ill miss him over the years and at reunion time. After scliool, he did a bang-up job with the Chicago Club. 
With tlic warm ^vcather approacliing \vc are running out of the fine brew that MIKE BRIAS forwarded from Manila. At least there is some com­
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
pcnsation for this job, if not a letter, a wonder­ful package of a specialty of the country. Many thanks, Mike! 
Please — when you have the duty at home, when the missus is out \ritli the bridge club — drop oldc Joe a line. From the .\lumni Oflicc: 
C. J. SENGER has been elected treasurer and a director of tlic 'Warren Oil Co. in Tulsa, Okla., effective July 1. He started with the Warren or­ganization in 1940, having previously worked for Haskins & Sells, and has been assistant treasurer since 1943. Active in professional and ciric affairs, he has also been president of the Tulsa N.D. Club and a city chairman for the Foundation. 
D/\NIEL R. FINN has been elected a \ice­
presidcnt of Baker Castor Oil Co., a subsidiary* of National Lead, which he joined as an accountant in 1940. Transferred to Baker in 1950 as treasurer, he continues to ser\'c in that capacity. 
1 938 Bumie Bauer 1139 AVestern Avenue South Bend 25, Ind. 
Because the reports of High School graduations have been exceeding the btilh announcements from you men the past feiv years, some are saving that middle age is creeping up on us. To halt that rumor 
— fostered no doubt by the retirement annuity salesmen amongst us '— my wife Helene and I hasten to announce the birth of our 7th daughter, Brcnda Sue, on May 24th who, plus our two boj-s, makes us now a full house in any card game. And, to encourage the young at heart, we invite similar announcements from the rest of you 38-cr5. 
Just as personal a communique was received from personal management consultant TOM SHEILS, Holly^vood, California. Tom and his wife had a baby girl last January* IStli. Said Tom: "This brings our family status back to Ave (again). We lost our oldest boy, Tommy, Jr., after he suif­fcred a cerebral hemorrhage while we ^vcrc x-aca­tioning in the San Bernardino Mountain area. We now have three bo>'s and two girls and I am happy to say that all are well." So arc we, Tom, and our deepest sympathy goes to you and your wife on the loss of your son. Tom has his own personal man­agement firm known as Thomas P. Sheils Associ­ates with offices in HolI>"wood and New York. Tom said he enjoyed being at our 20-year reunion last summer. Tom gets in touch mth "HOOK" KER­WIN, who tooted with him in that top combo of the Tliirtics, "The Modcmaires." "Hook," he says, is doing very well with Tliompson Products in Cleveland and, after studying law at nights for years, just recently passed his Ohio bar exams. 
WASHINGTON, D. C—Harry J. Kirk (right), recently named a Knight of St. Gregory by Pope John XXIII, receives ad­ditional recognition in special ceremonies on May 13 when James W. McGIoon pre­sents a scroll naming him Notre Dame Man of the Year 1959. 
"At his ripe old age they should give him a lot of credit for tackling such an assignment," com­ments Tom, and we second the motion. Tom woultL-^ like to get in touch with GENE VASLETT who i^_, supposed to be in the Los Angeles area. "I do hear from TOMMY ATKINSON on occasion, and our old tnimpet player from the dance band we had at school, GENE QUINN, who is now Iiwng out here, so we meet from time to time," urilcs Tom. He also mentioned that he is interested in CFM (Christian Family Movement) and that they have three or four CFM groups in their parish. His address is 1459 Seward Street, Hollvwood 28, Calif. 
From the late land of the "Bums," 458 Bay 


Ridge Parkway, Brooklvn 9, N.Y.. DR. A. WIL­
LIAM "RIGGIE" Di BRIENZ/\ writes that he's 
"still in active medical practice here in Brooklyn 
(despite the cessation of riots at Ebbctt's ficld???]^^ 
and the good Lord has been good to me, my wife 
.-\nn and two sons, Robert (15) and William (13). 
My son Robert attends a relatively new high school 
here in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, Xaverian H.S. — and 
at our recent father-son Communion breakfast we 
had as speakers Sleepy JI.M CROWLEY, '25, of 
four horseman fame, and our own 38-er HARVEY 
FOSTER, special F.B.I. agent here in New York. 
"Received word from J.\CK /VNTON from Rome 

several weeks ago where lie's in the seminary, 
happy and doing vcr>- well. C^\S VANCE sa>3 
'hello' — he and his wonderful family live just a 
few blocks from lis." Riggie already is planning on 
coming back for the 25th reunion. Riggic, by the 
way, was on the nominating committee, alon ^ 
tvith JOHN O'CONNOR, SCOTT REVRDONT J 
and LEN SKOGLUND, who "Ham-many Hauled" 
me into this class secretary executive position. 
JOHN O'CONNOR, incidentally, was named 

Man of the Year by the Indianapolis N.D. club, 
for reasons other than that he got JOE KUHAR­
ICH down to speak at their Universal N.D. night. 
Joe also spoke at the South Bend Rockne Memor­
ial Communion Breakfast which commemorates 
Rocknc's death each year. At the breakfast officers 
for the South Bcnd-Notrc Dame club were elected 
and included three 38-cni: DON FISHER, CHAR­
LEY a\LLAH.\N and BURNIE BAUER (that's 
me, "Swede") while BILL GIBBON'S term con­
tinues. Onlv dissenting votes came from DON 
HICKEY and JOHN MURPHY who protested.^ 
with undeniable logic, that all the offices shoulc^ 
be filled with 38ers, on the basis of merit, that is. 
We were sad to hear from CH.-\RLEY a\LLA­H.\N that BILL MEHRING'S dad, who was well kno\v*n to many in our class, died in April. Origi­nally from Huntington, Indiana, Bill no\%* lives at 45 Hanover Rd., Mountain Lakes, New Jcrscj*. Callahan also said he received a note from Father JOE ENGLISH, class of '37 who is now a Mar%*­knoll priest in Chile. Father English mentioned that JIM FLf\N.\G.\N is now with the Columbus Trust Company, Ncwburgh, N.Y., which is also Father's home tou-n. At the Drake Relays, Charlie \-isiicd with NICK LAMBERTO who is continu­ing to do well as a news reporter on the Dcs ^^oincs Register Tribune. ^ 
ED BRENNAN of Paw Paw, ^^ich., stopped-^ in for lunch on his way through Indiana and IlK­nois peddling paper and said he saw PAUL HUGHES in Flint where Paul is managing estates, with a pen, not a lawnmowcr. Ed also saw FRtVNK DEL/\NEY at Burlington, Iowa, where he is sales manager of the Midwest Biscuit Co., selling Vista Packs wrapped up in Ed's paper. Those Vista Packs ought to be real sanitary; Frank spent four years working along side of me in DOC REY­NIERS* germ-free bacteriology- labs. 
The following have changed abodes but are keeping quiet about cvcr>'thing else despite an ear­nest plea from me for a bit of news. If any of you get near their new address, drop in, warm up thi^, IIOUSC a bit and then urge them to send in a tc\\' words to their class column. HOWARD Dx\VE BILGER, whom I used to keep awake in the 1:15 classes, apparently hasn't forgotten me yet, my sharp elbows, because there's been no word from him at his new address, Box 154, St. Augustine, Florida, ^^aybc Dave was afraid I would come down for the winter with my whole tribe — and I still might! BOB ORVIS moved to 617 S. Olive, Los Angeles 14, Calif. Bob better write or I'll tell cver>-body his first name is Hanford. GEORGE BELANGER'S new address is 20 Meridian Rd., Le\-ittown, N.Y. JOHN SCHEMMER, who lived on N.D.*s Gold Coast with his golden locks, now has a New York gold coast address, 1010 5th Ave., New York 28, N.Y. FRx\NK COSGROVE i.*^^ still Austin, Texas', favorite druggist but now lives*' at 1(>02 Ridgemont in Austin. BERN.ARD WAS­SELL moved down tlie street a wa>'s to 171 An­derson St., Pottsvillc, Pa., and if he's like my old 
coalminer roommate, JOE WEHRLE of Punx­sutawncy. Pa,, he may have a good reason for not ^U'riting — can't! Former Economic Round Table ^Igc , CARL DOOZAN, is too busy law-ycring in Saginaw, Mich., to write from his new home at 1103 Chestnut Street, according to his old buddy, FR^VNK L.\NIGx\N, of La Porte, Ind. CIL\RLEY DUKE, now airport manager in New Orleans, hasn't been away from us in South Bend long enough to write except to let us know he is now a suburbanite at 10420 Park St., Little Farms 
€
23. La. TOM HxVLBERT moved from Pittsburgh (after the Pirates made that terrible first-week start) to 46 Salmi Rd., Framingham, Mass. — to be near the Red Sox??? HAROLD WARDELL jumped from Westport, Connecticut, to II Woodland Lane. Arcadia, Calif. ILL ARMEL, old side-kick of LEX SKOGLUND, ft his homeland of Chicago and is now almost a neighbor of JI.M DAUGHERTY, the Bristol baron. at 6G13 Jocclyn Hollow Rd., Nashville, Tenn. BOB LEONARD moved from Kinston, N.C., to become assistant to the production manager, textile fibers department, Dacron Textile Rayon Mfff. Div., AVilmington, Del. DR. D^VN BOYLE slipped over to 471 Hamilton Ave., Trenton, N.J., from Hopewell, N.J., and ^\NDY PISECK moved to 5 Lcnnon Place, Whilcsboro, N.V., from Utica. As President of the South Bend Scrra club I hope to make the Scrra International Convention in Pittsburgh this summer where I know I will meet some of our class. If possible I hope to stop ^ n on a few of you silent lads en route, so, as fathe r Farley used to say as he came down the corridors at Sorin hall at 6 a.m., with cowbell and hammer in lieu of alarm clock, "Be Prepared!" Tliought of the Month: As long as you have someone creeping in your home, you don't have time to worr>' about Father Time creeping up on you. In an earlier issue is a picture of the wives of the South Bend 38-ers welcoming JOE KUHAR­ICH'S wife to South Bend Society at a luncheon at Eddies. Go ahead and whistle, boys, youVe got to admit the Class of '38 knows how to pick 'cm. Addition to 1938 News: Just received a comprehensive epistle from the class of '38's most representative seminarian in Jlome, JACK /\NTON, who wrote in English but ^^sed Ruman numerals as is befitting, to wit: "I read the column whh relish and have in­tended to write for months to sort of *check in' with the wonderful class (Ed. note: Jack was al­ways a man of understatement) of '38. I enjoyed the 20th reunion about a year ago this time as I've enjoyed all our reunions in the past. "Tomorrow I have an oral exam, In the Rector's oflicc and that will be all for this term. I am re­turning home to spend the summer with my parents and will return in October a Tlieologian. We cover the entire of Philosophy in just the one year. (Comment: I've heard Jack and the boys do this in just one night back in Walsh hall.) Tomorrow's oral is to be based on any of the tracts of Philoso­^^hy. (Sudden thought: not much different than ^pilose sessions after lights out back in the thinking thirties.) "The Holy Cross Order have a beautiful set-up here. It really is a pleasure to visit them — which I've done on many occasions. Tlie most memorable visit being when Cardinal O'Hara was here to re­ceive his 'red hat.' I had a very good seat in St. Peter's and had a wonderful view of Pope John placing it on him. Also had a nice visit with him later. The Notre Dame Club of Rome is of rather good size, but I can't be as active as I might like, being a seminarian. But wc do get out from time to time and I'd enjoy seeing any of the gang visit­ing in Rome. (Jack's address is Pontifical College. ^Ccda 67 Via S. Niccolo da Tolcntiono, Rome 5, V'clcphonc 487,406) [The address] should also en­able the boys to drop "the Deacon" a one once in awhile. Several have done so this year and I really appreciate hearing from them. 
"My vcr>- best to CHUCK SWEENEY, JOE KUHARICH, DON RICKEY, CHARLIE a\L . L.\HAN, DON FISHER and all the '38-crs in South Bend. I probably will be through S.B. on my way back to Rome. Hope you and your family arc %vcll. Would love to hear from you, Sincerely. Jack Anton." Jack's address in the States is 1806 
N.E. 28th Drive, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
Same day I received a nice letter from BOB LEONARD, who is now located with duPont's home oflicc in Wilmington, Delau-arc. Bob and his 
^if c Beverly were married in the Log Chapel in 
™'ovember, 1939. They now have two bo>'S and a girl. Oldest son has just completed his Freshman year at U. of North Carolina. Bob started working for du Pont at their experimental station in Wil-
JOHN B. MORGAN, '40 Count-down Accountant 
As the Atlas Intercontinental Ballistic 

Missile becomes an operational weapon in 
the U. S. Space Age defense system, a for­
mer N. D. assistant professor of accounting, 
John Barrett Morgan, holds the purse 
strings connecting launching pads from 
coast to coast. 
In September of 1956 John joined Con­

\-air-Astronautics., a division of General Dy­
namics, as assistant to the controller and 
soon became budgets administrator. With 
the growth of the Atlas ICBM program he 
was promoted this year to chief of off-site 
base accounting. The new position gives 
him responsibility for the accounting func­
tions at all the many test and operational 
bases scattered throughout the country*. 
A native of Washington, D.C., John came to N. D. with a B.C.S. from Strayer College of Accountancy and plunged into campus jobs and activities. Before and after gradu­ation in accounting he worked for Potomac Electric Power Co. as a payroll analyst, cost accountant and budget and tax ac­countant, resigning to become an agent for the Bureau of Internal Revenue. In 1943 he was called to na\Y seri'ice and became a supply officer on Atlantic convoy duty with a destroyer escort. Mustering out in 1946, he was on the accounting faculty of the N. D. College of Commerce until 1951, when recall to active naval duty launched his career in the aircraft and missile field. .'\s a cost inspector, in military* and later in civil scr\'ice, he audited more than 40 de­fense contractors before joining Temco Air­craft Corp. in Dallas, Tex., as administra­tive accountant in charge of budget, audit and contract operations, which led to his transcontinental commuting for Corn-air. 
John's extracurricular activities include local business and fraternal organizations and, of course, the N. D. Club of San Diego. Home base is La Mesa, Calif., with his wife Louise and five children, Margaret, 17; Cathy, 13; Harriet, 12; John Michael, 4, and Marion Elizabeth, not quite a year. 
mington during the early commercial development of nylon, was transferred to Seaford, Delawarc,''t» assist in starting the first nylon plant and stayed there 12 years. During three of these years ED \VRAPP (accounting wizard of the class) was at the same plant. In 1952 Bob was transferred to Kinston, North Carolina, to start a new plant with another new fiber called ''Dacron.'' As Bob says, *'Thanks in part to 'Tex' Haggar and his wonder­ful slacks this business has grown substantially la the past six years, t was Chief Supei^nsor of Man­ufacturing at this plant until my recent transfer to the home office in Wilmington." Bob said that the only 38-er he saw much of since graduation be­sides Ed Wrapp was FRANK BRIGHT (who like Ed was maxima cum laude as an accounting stu­dent). Bob said that he wasn't near any X.D. clubs while in Carolina but was called upon many times to give talks on Notre Dame at \*arious church and civic clubs over the years. Since Bob lived in mission countr>* he and his wife spent a lot of their spare time In church work, and I am, anxious to hear more about this some time. It's heartwarming to hear from Jack and Bob. Hope you other 38-ers keep mv heart from getting cold. — SWEDE­
1939 i^^^ ^- ^^otschall Singcr-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
Reunion Registrants JOSEPH ADRIAN, PATRICK BANNON, JOSEPH BEINOR, HENRY BORDA, ROBERT BREEN. TOM BULGER, DICK BURKHOLDFJl, JOHN 
J. CAREY, MICHAEL CLOUSE. JAMES B. DALEY, VINCENT DcVOURSEY, PAUL M. DON­OVAN, L.\RRY DOYLE, FRANK FITCH, TED FRERICKS, JOHN C. GALLAGHER, FRANK GARTLAND, WALTER J. GEREND, TOM GIL­LESPIE, J. R. GORMAN. JERRY GREEN, JOHN 
J. GRIFFIN, ED^VARD GRIMES, JOHN GU­TOWSKI, JOSEPH HANN.AN, O.AVID HARRIS, CHARLES HAYES, AVILLLAM R. HERRICK, JOSEPH J. HIEGEL, ED^VIN HUGHES, WALTER 
H. JOHNSON, JR., FRANK KELLY, THOiL « KING. JULES KRISTAN. ROBERT KVATSAK, FRANK LAUCK, JAMES McARDLE, JACK McAULIFFE, EOAVARD McDERAfOTT, JOE McDERMOTT, JOHN F. McDONALD. JOSEPH 
L. MCDONALD, JR., JAMES MCGOLDRICK, RICHARD McKAY, CHARLES McN.VMARA. TOM MAHER, PHIL MALONEY, AURION J. AUURELLO, RALPH MAZAR, MATTHEW MERKLE, DAVE MESKILL, ^HLLIAM MET­RAILER, WILLIAM T. MEYERS, MARK MTT­CHELL. JAMES MOTSCRALL, CARL J.NAGEL, PHIL NORTH, DONALD 0*MELIA, ROBERT ORTALE. BILL OTOOLE. FRr\NK PITTMAN, JOHN PLANALP, CHARLES S. REDDY, PAUL RICE, RUSSELL RILEY, A. JOSEPH RIZZI, JA.MES ROaAP, TOM ROCHE, CHARLES ROD­GERS, D.ANIEL J. RYAN, JOSEPH F. RYAN, CHESTER SADO^VSKI, BOB SCHIRF, ALBERT SCHMITZ, GERARD A. SCHWARTZEL, ROBERT SHEPPARD, CHARLES SIDNER,JOHN 
A. SIEGEL, FRED SISK, JAMES SNYDER, LOU SOMERS, JACK SULLIVAN, LARRY SUTTON, MARIO TONELLI, RODERICK TROUSDALE. PAUL TULLY, JAMES C. \V'ALSH, CHARLES 
O. AX'EILBACHER, JOHN \VHEELER, GENE \VHITE, ^VN*DRE\V WILSON 
(Ed. note: JIM MOTSCHALL will come through 
with some highlights on the 20th Reunion next 
issue. BeIo\\' is a report requested and submitted be­
fore the Big ^^'ecfc End got underway. As many 
know, Jim not only retained his ofGce as secretary 
but was honored, by the classmates gathered for 
election, with the presidency as well. Elected vice-
president and treasurer respectively were t^vo Illi­
nois boys, MARIO TONELLI of Skokic and DAVE 
MESKILL of Wilmette. JOE HAN*NAN, the South 
Bend banker, was named to administer the Class 
of '39 25th Reunion Fund. Those who were 
alarmed by the week end hat-passing should know 
that the collecting was class-inspired and designed 
to inaugurate a special fund to memorialize the 
Class of *39. It is not a part of the general Alumn! 
Fund, and the .Alumni Board remains on record as 
discouraging solicitation on the- campus during re­
unions '.vithout advance notice. J.L.) 
PAUL F. KLUDING is an Operations manner 
in Dearborn, Michigan, \vhere he U\xs with his 
wife and six children — John, 14; Paula, 10; Judith, 
8; Kathleen, 7; James, 3; and Robert, 1 year. Paul 
is working for Middle Atlantic Transportation Co. 
Inc. and tmtil his promotion to Operations Mah-
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 53 
agcr was m Connecticut, but with his promotion 
came a transfer to Detroit. 
D/VNIEL P. FALSIONI wrote to mc many moons 
ago with news of a new arri\-al, a daugliter, Paula 
Jane, on October 29, 1957. Tliis makes two daugh­
ters to his family, the other one being Julie Ann, 
who was then six years old. He, his wife Victoria 
and the two girls all live in Lockport, N.J., where he 
is an attomev at la%v. He iii-ould like to licar from 
ANDY \ni^ON, BILL DONNELLY and any 
of the fourth floor gang of Badin Hall. 
JOE JUDGE is a psychiatric social worker in 
Troy, N.Y., wlierc he lives with his wife and their 
children, Marj- Margaret, 11; Grace, 9; Joey, 6; 
and Arnold, 6 months. Joe is finding his work as 
Director of Social Services at La Salle School very 
cliallenging and interesting, and at the time of writ­
ing was looking forward vcr>' much to seeing many 
old acquaintances of '39 on the campus in June. 
ALFRED KIEFER has a Pharmacy- on Highways 301 and 98 in Dade City, Florida, and tells us that if you*rc passing that %vay. you are welcome to slop in for orange juice. Alfred lives in Dade City with his wife Margaret and their three children, AI, Jr., 11; Joe, 9, and Pamela Jean, 2. Joe would like to hear from JOE McDONALD, ART WOODS, HENRY JOHANT2EN, and FRANK MURPHY. 
ROBERT M. ORTALE is an Attorney in Kings­ton, N. Y., where he lives ^\itli his wife. Bob likes to get back on campus for at least one game a year. 
LAWRENCE J. PETROSHIUS lives in Wauke­gan, Illinois, w*here he is an Attorney at Law. His wife Hazel and he have three children—Lawrence, Jr., 14; Edward, 11, and Susan, 5. 
PETER J. REPETTI wrote to me in November 1957 from New York, where he has been a partner in the firm of Hodges, Reaves, McGrath and Downey, Attome>*s, since 1952. 
ALPHONSE M. RESPONDEK is Qxracr-Man­ager of Radio Station K.C.F.H., in Cuero, Texas, where he resides with his wite and their four children — Thomas, 10; James, 4; John, 2, and Anthony, one month, at the time of writing. He would like to hear from other electrical engineers Class of *39. 
TOM ROCHE of Columbus, Ohio, is a Group Insurance Supervisor. Tom, his wife Mary and their 5 children—Mary Eileen, 9; Tommy, 7; Vir­ginia Marie, 5; Patricia Ann, 4, and Sharon Louise, 6 months — have enjoyed living in Columbus since their transfer from Cleveland. Tom tells us that he and his wife have met many Notre Dame people in Columbus, and would like to hear from BILL HERRICK who he hasn't seen since our 15th Reunion. 

STANLEY R. SHEERAN writes to us from Chicago, Illinois, where he works for E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co. He and his \rife Eileen have three daughters, Nancy, 12; Kathleen, 10, and Patricia, 3. 
LARRY SUTTON, Lt. Col., US.AF, tells us that he is learning a great deal teaching history to a fine group of young men at the Air Force Academy at Aurora, Colorado. He and his wife Terry have three children — Larry, Jr., 6; Tom­my, 5, and Anne Louise, 6 months. Larry would like to hear from HERMAN ROMBERG, CHUCK RASOR and other "quiet personnel." 
CHARLES J. THEISEN is Inventory- Control Manager of the Theisen Clemens Co., St. Joe, Micliigan. He and his wife live in Benton Harbor, Michigan, with their family of five — William, 17; Charlene, 15; John, 11; Patricia, 8, and Timothy, 7. Charles is very proud of his eldest son Bill, who is 6' 2" and weighs 180 lbs. and is doing real well in football, basketball, and track while attending St. Joseph High School. 
PAUL C. TULLY wrote to me in November 1957 from ^Vash^ngton, D. C. where he is in the publishing business. His wife L>Tinc and he have three cliildren — Don, 15; Tom, 10, and Diannc, 

9. Paul managed to make a vacation visit to CHARLIE BENNET in St. Augustine, Florida, and also tells us that DR. FRANK KELLY of Richmond, Va., visits Washington, D. C , on oc­casional breaks from his practice. 
Another letter from November, 1957, is from ARTHUR J. \^RHOESTRA, who is a phar­macist in South Bend, Indiana. He tells us of a visit to ALFRED KEIFER's store in Dade City, Fla. and thoroughly recommends anyone passing through to stop in there, and it is easy to find and a very attractive drug store. .'Arthur has three children — Joseph, 10; Rosemary, 8, and Thomas, 6. He would like to know how ART WOODS is behaving these days! 
JOHN E. WESSELS Is Vice-President of the Batterson IVessels Co. in Muscatine, Iowa, where he and his yvilc arc raising one girl, Kathleen, 11, 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 2959 
NORTH FLORIDA—Among the 70 present at U.N.D. Night in Jacksonville's Naval Air Station were (1. to r.) Joe Hartzer, Tom Parsley, Fred Rahaim, John Corrigan, principal speaker Jim Armstrong, Club President Fritz Baimicr, AI Kessing, Gerald Johnson, Sam Lawler and Dick Brodeur. 
and two potential prospects for N.D. — Tommy, 7, and Jack wha was 4 months at the time of his writing. John says he hasn't seen AL FELTS for quite a spell and would like to have news of him. . 
JOE ZUENDEL is a Chevrolct-Oldsmobile Deal­

er in DycrsWllc, Iowa, and has a family of four — 
Rocky, 14; Suzanne, 12; Joe, 5, and Mike, 3. 
ED VON HOENE, since '39, has been in the service, worked in various phases of Systems, Pro­cedure and Purcliasing in several companies, and was hoping to receive his MBA this past Fcbruar>'. He and his wife Virginia have a fine family of eight — Ed, 15; Elizabeth, 14; Martin, 12; Vir­ginia, 9; Clare, 7; Mar>-, 4; Paul, 3, and Cath­erine, 2. 
With this last bit of news from FRANCIS J. MASTROPIETRO, I am completely up to date with all the letters received to date, so I hope that many of you will set to and let me have more news for the next issue. Francis writes from Auburn, N. Y., where he is operating a family t>'pe restaurant (Michaels Restaurant, 196 Clark St., Auburn, N. Y.) specializing in Italian foods. He is ver>' proud of his family of three girls — Rosemarj*, 18, who is a Freshman at Nazareth College, Rochester, N. Y.; Marguerite, 16, Junior in Mt. Carmel High School, Auburn, N. Y., and the *'Iight of the family" ^faria Christine, 3 ^ vears. Francis would like to have word from DANIEL MURPHY, JOHN DROLLO and any other of his classmates. 
The following arc new addresses of '39crs: REV. FREDERICK JAMES DIGBY, St. LauTcnce the ^^artyr, 8937 Twentv-Fifth Street, Mctairie, La.; ROBERT JERO.ME FARRINGTON, JR., 4801 Grantham Avenue, Chevy Chase, Md.; ROBERT BERNARD HEYWOOD, 121 North Handcock, Madison, Wis.; CDR. JOHN C. JAX­HEIMER, 1531 N. Wakefield St., Ariington, 7, Virginia; FRANK A. MASTRIA, 4620 Market Street, Youngstown 12, Ohio; JOHN CARR O'CONNOR, 129 E. Market Street, No. 1000, Indianapolis 4, Ind.; STEPHEN MAYER O'MAY­ER, R.R. No. 4, West Bend, Wis.; ROBERT BREDETTE PICK, Lock Box 336, West Bend, Ws.; WILLIAM HENRY RICKE, 440 S. E. 1st Terrace, P.O. Box 657, Pompano Beach, Fla.; ED\\v\RD ^L\RION SADOWSKI, P.O. Box 59, Three Bridges, N. J. 
HILLrURE A. VAN HOLLEBEKE, whose ap­plication for admission to the Alumni Association was approved by the Alumni Board in June, is hereby welcomed back to tlic Class of '39. 
104 0 Janies G. Bro^m 
625 Madison Ave. 
New York 22, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
The big push is on for the 20-Year Reunion of the Class of '40. It won't go into orbit until June 10, I960, but the first stage left the launching pad with the election of officers in Tkfay. 
.......... ^ 

In a whopping mail ballot the following men were put in office: JAMES V. DONOGHUE, Chicago, HI., president; PHILIP J. SANDMAIER, JR., Chatham, N. J., vice-president. Eastern States; WALTER FLEMING, JR., Dallas, Tex., vice-presi­dent. Southern States; JOSEPH THESING, Kansas City, Mo., vice-president. Midwest States; JAMES METZLER, Kansas City, Kas., vice-president. West-em States; JAMES G. BROUTs', New York, N.Y., sccretar>-, and RICHARD BURKE, Notre Dame, treasurer. 
A referendum on the ballot ovenvhclmlngly ap­proved a resolution to make an additional assess­ment at the 1960 reunion. 
It's not every class that can have a University a^V countant like DICK BURKE watcliing the pur^ ' strings, and JIM BRO^\'N'5 resounding vote of con­fidence should result in his getting a little neu-s to report in this space. Jim needs some mail from you at the Madison Avenue address above. WAL­TER FLEMING, a strong contender in several de­partments, not only covers DLxie but ser\'es as liai­son with tlie Alumni Board on which he is a direc­tor, while PHIL SANDMEIER bolsters Secretar>­Brown on the Eastern Seaboard. 
As Midwestern and Western regional vice-presi­dents respectively, JOE THESING and JIM METZ­LER, by an odd t^vtst of the vote, will be survey­ing their domains back-to-back across the wide Mis­souri, but they'll have the advantage of comparing notes at the river bank. ^ \ 
In the presidency, Chicago stockbroker JIM DON­OGHUE has already swung into action with appeals to all the officers for reunion suggestions. Jim has also enlisted the aid of JOHN KELLY in New Jersey; JIM HUFNAGEL in Pennsylvania; AL KES­SING in Jacksonville, Fla.; BILL COLEMAN in Cleveland; AL FUNK, La Crosse, Wis.; PHIL CANALE down in Memphb, Tenn., and DR. JOHN KELLEHER in Toledo. 
Congratulations to other close runners-up in the strongly contested officer race: New York's FATHER RICHARD FALLON and JOHN MARTIN; east­erners JOHN DILLON, BERNARD CR^\WFORD and HENR Y AR.MITAGE; JOHN GAVAN. CHARLES HUTCHENS and TERRENCE SMITS/ below the Mason-Di.xon; Iowa's ED HANNAN; JIM DELAHANTY in South Bend, and Californians RICHARD LYNG and JOHN MACK. Their ac­tive assistance will be appreciated by the officers in an all-out. efi'ort for a record reunion turnout. 
In his labors for Convair JOHN MORGAN has worked withrED DOYLE, occasionally sees JIM DOYLE, chief accountant for Pan-Am at the ^lis­silc Test Center in Florida, and hears from room­mate HARRY PHILLIPS. 
194 1 James F. Spellman 
• '^ • 7 East 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y. %) 

From the Alumni Office: Between his own thriving accounting firm and 
labors as treasurer of the Notre Dame Club oC New 

York, jn f SPELLMAN has been too tied up to ^utlldt inrormation ia the mails, but he would cer­^Riinljr appreciate all the news you can volunteer about yourself and the classmates you hear from. Jim u-ill forward all the info to this department so that you can be oriented about your old buddies before the 20-ycar gathering less than two years 
away. 
BILL CARSON has returned to the States after seven years in the education division of the Inter­national Cooperation Administration. Bill ser\*cd in some of tlie hottest spots on the hemisphere, in­cluding the Dominican Republic, Cuba and Bolivia. He has now joined the faculty of Casper College and resides at 2024 Fremont Ave., Casper, Wyo. 

Congratulations to REV. JAMES O'HARA on his new pastorate. Since 1945 Father Jim has been an ^pssistant all over his diocese in Illinois, including 
^Jlessed Sacrament in Springfield, St. Thomas in Decatur and St. Peter's, Quino'. Tliis past spring Bishop O'Connor appointed him head man at St. Mark's in Windiester, the county seat of Scott County, 53 miles west of Springfield. He'll hit the campus for some athletic contests this fall; just look for a handsome and obWousIy Irish padre with a two-tone (excuse the expression) Princeton hatrcu:. 
I Q47 WilHani M. Hickey 
• '^ ^ 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

^ We Iicar from BILL DILLHOEFER (1725 West Haven Road, San Marino, Calif.), who says: 
*'There arc not too many of our classmates out here (to my knowledge). However, I occasionally sec JACK MORRIS, associated wth Mattel, Inc., toy manufacturers; BILL McGRt\TH, comptroller of Typographic Ser\*ice, Inc.; JIM MORAN, a law­yer for Pioneer FHntkote Company; JACK ^L\HON, an insurance man, and DR. LEO TURGEON, pro­fession ob%'ious. 
"BOB MADDOX, a California native son, returns to his coaching job in the Canadian football league." Thanks, Bill, for the scoops. 
At the Florida Notre Dame State Convention at the Sea Ranch in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., members of the Class of 1942 in attendance were: BILL 

kMADDEN, Palm Beach; TOM WALKER, Fort 
'Lauderdale; EMMETT MOR/\N, Coral Gables; DICK WHALEN, Fort Lauderdale, and your news-hungry- class secretary, BILL HICKEY of Chicago. 
FRx\NK LADKY announces the arrival of their sixth child April 19, a baby girl, which balances the brood three and three. Frank reports that TOM FITZHARRIS is in good shape in New York and is coming to Milwaukee this summer. 
BILL MADDEN had tlic sorrow of losing his mother on ^^ay 15 without warning or illness. Our condolences to him. 
Bill is president of the ncwly-fonned Notre Dame Club of Palm Beach and, as usual, spends his summers at Lake Placid. .\t the Newark airport he met PAUL PATTON, who is noiv coaching foot­

•ball and hockey at Cornell University. 
From the Alumni Office: RICHARD A. GULLING, assistant treasurer of the Timken Roller Bearing Co., was clioscn in June as president and board chairman of Junior Acliicvcmcnt of Starke County (Ohio), Inc., by directors of the organization. Tlie job was previ­ously filled by two men. Dick was fDrmctly vice president of the board and was'chairman of JA's "Future Unlimited" banquet in Canton, O., where he's been with Timken since 1943 and assistant treasurer since 1953. THOMfVS J. JOHNSON was appointed employee ^relations manager of Mobil Oil Company*s East 'providence, Rhode Island, refinery cfTcclivc June 
15. Tom worked at Mobil's Paulsboro, N. J., refinery after army scr\'ice in Europe dur­ing AVorld War II. He was promoted to as­sistant manager of em­ployee relations at the refinery in 1956. Mar­ried to the former LeAnnc Boyle, Tom has three sons and a daugther. 

REV. HOWARD A. KUHNS, C.S.C., won 'a Ph.D. in history from Georgetown June 8. He got his M.A. at Notre Dame in 1948. A member of the faculty of Holy Cross in Washington, D.C., Father Kulms wrote a thesis that sounds fascinating, 
JOHN J. McHALE, '43 Tiger at Home with the Braves 
In baseball's National League pennant stretch Fred Haney's Milwaukee Braves bat­tle for a third straight crown with tough West Coast contenders, while Jimmy Dyke's Detroit Tigers struggle for the first division as spoilers of the American League. Fol­lowing the fortunes of both Midwestern scrappers is Tiger veteran Johnny McHale^ "braving" his first season as general man­ager-vice president of Milwaukee's defend­ing champs. Top boss in Tigertown for two seasons, rabid fan Johnny agonized self-ac­cusingly when Kuenn, Kalinc & Kompany suffered an early-season slump. 
After 18 years with Detroit's system John McHale is one of the game's youngest top executives. He signed with the Tigers in 1941 after two years at N. D. in which, as \*arsity center, he started against Army and other football foes but never played college baseball. Two seasons with Detroit farm clubs like Beaumont in the Texas League were interrupted by ^\^^V. II. Then bad health in navy midshipman training forced a medical discharge, and John returned to end the 1944 season with the Tigers. Sent to Buffalo in *45, he sprayed the Interna­tional Assn. with 22 homers, clouting .320 with 114 RBI's, before recall (despite a knee injur\') to help the Tigers take a pen­nant and edge the Cubs in the World Ser­ies. Groomed to replace Hank Grcenberg at first base, he wintered with study in Sorin Sub for an A.B. early in '47 (but stays loyal to '43). In 1948 John obtained a re­lease as a player and launched a brilliant career in administration with the Tigers farm system. Named general manager in 1957, he signed with Braves owner Lou Per­ini last January to work with Birdie Teb­bets in guiding the Milwaukee operation. 
A continuing tie with Detroit is Johnny*s wife, formerly Patricia Ann Cameron, niece of Tigers owner Walter Briggs. Married-in the Lady Chapel at graduation, they now have three boys and three girls aged 2 to 11. 
involving the historic marital difiScuIties of Henry 
VIII. He's a member of Phi Alpha Theta, mstoric honor society. 
JOHN J. GARVEY, who has been runnins part of New York's celebrated Macy's since 1954, was appointed manager of the department "store's drug factory in June. PreWously he had been general manager of a firm in ^famaroneck, N.Y., and dur­ing W. \V. II he was a navy lieutenant in the South Atlantic. John and Mrs. Garvey have four children and live in Eastchcster, N.Y. 
Jack AViggins 
1943 
5125 Briggs Ave. La Crcscenta, Cal. 
A West Coast visitor recently was JOE CALLA­HAN. Joe was en route to Djakarta, Indonesia, after an extended \acation in the States from duties in management of National Carbon's Java plant. He had many interesting stories to tell of hts life and travels in the" Far East for National Carbon. It ^vas Joe's first \*isit home in three years. 
PAUL FISHER, working m Washington, D.C., is serving his second year in office for the Notre Dame Club of Washington, D.C. 
Paul has five children. 
JIM MADIGAN reports fair progress with the Buck-a-^Veek plan he %vrote about early this year. If ^-ou haven't made the contribution to his plan Jim asks that you send something along soon. 
News has been scarce lately (scarce! it's been ab­solutely nothing) so please send along any informa­tion. Please note the new address. I'm sure the nc%%- postman would like to lug some letters up the hill from '43ers. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOSEPH L. BERRY, an erstwhile classmate, ^vas elected president of the Greensborough, N.C., ch^>­tcr of N\C.C.J. last spring, according to the Caro­
lina regional director, who commented on MOOS E KRAUSE, '34-, receiving th e Brotherhood Awar d this year. 
WILLIAM P. LIL­JESTROM has been appointed southwestern regional sales man­ager for Clin Alumi­num. BUI has been Dallas sales manager and assistant manager of sheet and plate 
product sales in New York since joining the com­pany in 1957. PreWously he had been a market manager for Reynolds Metals and served in the Nai.y during ^V. W. II. Bill moves back to Dallas for the new assignment. 

The Class of '43 is fast catching up with '38 (president, football coach, etc) as the class with the most high-ranking representation on campus. Already boasting a vice-president for student af­fairs, FATHER GEORGE BERNARD, the Class now has another CS.C. heading the religion de­partment, FATHER ROBERT PELTON, the genial rector of Morrisscy Hall. Father Bob has been editing the beautiful Spanish-language brochure in­troducing La tin-American students to U. S. Catho­lic educational institutions and moderated the N. D. swimming club before it achieved \*arsitv team sta­tus. 
1 944 George A. Bariscillo, Jr. 515 Fifth.Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 

Reunion Registrants GUIDO ALEXANDER, GRIFF ALLEN, NICHO­LAS J. AALVTO, GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, REV. DONALD BAYDIK. 033. . RICHARD BODIE, DOx\nNIC BOETTO. BERNIE BOW­LING, THOMAS F. BRE.MER, THOMAS B. BRENNAN, JERRY E. BROWN, BEN BRU­NETTI, JIM CASEY, WALLACE P. CHRIST-AfAN, HERBERT CLARK, JAMES J. CLARKE, PHIL CLARKE. JEROME COLEMAN, JOHN F. COLLINS, JIM CONSTANTIN. CLEMENT CON­STANTINE, JIM COOGAN, STRATTE COOR­LAS, JACK CRAHAN, JAIklES G. CROWLEY, VICTOR A. DeSIMON, HANK DEWES, JOE DILLON, DICK DOERMER, JACK DOHERTY, EDWARD DOWLING, JACK DOYLE. RICHAKD 
A. DRATZ, VINCENT J. DUNCAN, EDWARD DUNIGAN. WILLIAM J. EATON, JOE E. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 55 
FARMAR, MILTON FLYKE, MICHAEL FRAW­LEY, RICHARD FRIEROTT, JOSEPH GALL, ED GALLAGHER, BERNTE GHIGLIERI, LARRY GOEBELER, JAMES F. GORMELEY, BARRETT GUTHRIE, HAROLD HALEY, TOM HALLIGAN, AVARREN HAYES. JOHN F. HEAGNEY, ARTIE HOFFMAN, JOHN JOHNSON, JAMES KANE, EUGENE M. KELLEY, AMLLIAM KELLOW, WILLIAM KENNY, TOM KERRIGAN, PAT KILEY, VICTOR KIMMEL, JOHN R. KLEE, HARRY L.W'ERY, ROBERT LEHMAN, JOHN L\'XCH, ROBERT Mc.\ULIFFE, PAUL H. Mc-C\BE, ROBERT McCRE-ADY, BOB McKAHAN, JAMES MAGUIRE, JAMES MAHONEY, JAMES MALONE, BEN MAMMINA, PAUL A. MARI­ETTA, JIM ME.\GHER, ROBERT J. METZLER, RICHARD J. MILLER, EDWARD MONAHAN. WILLIAM C. MULLIGAN, JOHN MURPHY, JOHN D. MURPHY. RICHARD G. MURPHY, JOSEPH A. NEUFELD. PAUL W. O'CONNELL, EDWARD O'CONNOR, THOMAS O'CONNOR. WILLIAM C. O'CONNOR, JOHN F. O'HARA, TOM O'REILLY, EUGENE W*. PILAWSKI, CHARLES RALEY, WALTER ROGERS, THOM­AS J. ROLFS, A. A. ROMEO, PHIL RUSSO, ERNEST F. SEDLMAYR, JACK SEGERSON, LESTER SENTZ, ELMER SILHA, EUGENE SLEVIN. TED SMITH. ED^VIN SOCHALSKI. 
G. E. STAN*TON, FRANK STUMPF, JOHN F. THORNTON, J. ROBERT THUMM, N. P. TRIMBORN, DONALD J. TROTTIER, PAUL UNVERZAGT, JOE \'anDYKE, FRANCIS VIG­NOL/V, FR^\NK WALDECK. \«LLIAM J. WALDRON, JR., JACK WATTERS. GEORGE \\XVDT, J. T. \\HrrELY, SAM A\TNG, AVIL­LIAM WTLIE, H/\RRY YEATES, ALBERT YOUNGHAUS, A. MARC ZOILO. MICHAEL ZORO\TCH 
Once again an early deadline-date proves to be 

a handicap. This column is being written prior to 
the reunion and before the May-June Alumnus is 
mailed, and as a result, there is a dearth of neu-s 
to report and the complete details of our 15th re­
union (which u-ill have passed by the time this is­
sue reaches vou), will have to be postponed until 
the fall issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Some late neu*s just received brings word that JOHN MORRISON has joined Republic .Aviation at their home oflice in Farmingdale, Long Island, where he is now a Senior Computing Engineer. He and his family v-acated their apartment in Vet­\ille shortly before the reunion and regrettably were not on band to greet the reunionites. John had just completed another year of advance studies and research in mathematics and at the end of the scliool term accepted his assignment with Republic A\'iation. 
I know all the members of the class join with. me in extending to him e\'er>* best wish in his new xvorlc. 
W'e also have late word from BILL AVUKOVTTS who is lixing in South Bend u-ith his wife and three children, but who has spent many weeks during the past year in St. Joseph Hospital and also up at Mayo Brothers tussling with eye troubles that caused a temporary loss of sight. He is presently recciWng new "bacteria" treatment and we learn that his case was discussed at the National Eye Convention and was reported in the American Medi­cal Journal. Besides his own difficulties, we learned that at one time or other during the past several months all members of his family were hospitalized for one reason or another. It has been truly a year for "testing faith** for Bill and his family and they have certainly met the test. I know evei-jone in our class joins in extending prayerful best wishes to the Wukovits family of South Bend. 
I hope to have a complete report on the reunion shenanigans in our next column. If you were there, you clicrisb the memories; if you were unable to attend, we hope you have begun making plans for our 2dth in 19M. 
From tlie Alumni OfKcc: Over the reunion week end GEORGE BARISCIL­LO conceived the idea of having you who •were there report on the fcstinties. President-elect JOHN L\'NCH, who ringmastcred tlie affair witli BOB LEHMAN, thought of supplementing the news with specific suggestions to improve the per­formance in 1964. It took nearly two months, but the office finally got out a brief questionnaire to serx'e these purposes and we hope all the reunion registrants have sent their replies to George by now. Incidentally, one of George's • reimlon prepara­tions was getting elected in Alay to another four-year term as commissioner in Bradley Beach, N.J. Outgoing president JACK THORNTON is to be 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
Going native under the palms are these beachcombers from the Class of *42 at the 
N.D. Florida Convention in Fort Lauder­dale last May, (from left) Jim Downey, Emmett Aloran, George Rudolph, Tom Walker, Bill Afadden and Bill Hickey. 
thanked for the great interest he had in reunion arrangements and the election of a successor. 
The successor, JOHNNY LYNCH, has tlic mis­fortune of being the. most successful literary man in the class, author of some highly honored short stories, so George picked him as tlie logical man to author a memorial brochure on the Class of '-14 at the 15-ycar milepost, including the class sur\'e>' completed just before the reunion, for distribution in the near future. The only generalization John has divulged to date is that the topical '44 man, no matter Iiow successful, never learned to spell. 
JOHN H. TERRY, profiled in the last issue as an appointments secretary in Albany, N.Y., is now assistant secretary to Governor Rockefeller. He moved his office before the news got out. The *'Spoilight" failed to announce, incidentally, that John was the SjTacuse Club's N. D. Man of the Year. 
RAY RUETZ and his family now live out in Manhattan Beach, Calif., where Ray is chief ac­countant for U. S. Chemical. He^s not far from Brother Joe, Avho toils for Stanford University. 
One of the nation's top Mariologists is FATHER ED>VARD O'CONNOR, C.S.C., who uon the sev­enth annual Marian Library Medal from the Uni-I'ersity of Dajton for the best English-language book on the Blessed Virgin published in 1958. Father O'Connor, who has been teaching- at the University since 1952, was honored for his writing and editing in "The Dogma of the Immaculate Conception" and also edited "The My-stery of the \Voman." Both works were published by the Uni­versity Press. 
THOMAS F. *TIM" IL\LLIGAN of Flint, Mich., was recently elected president of the Bowling Pro­prietors of Michigan, an organization of tlie state's bowling establishments with combined assets in the neighborhood of $150 million. Tim follows in the footsteps of his father, T. J. Halligan, one of the organizers of the group. It's the first lime a son has fol­lowed his dad in the presidency'. An LL.B., Tim sJiandoned the law_ books early for the family specialty and ventured into the bowling business. Today he's the owner of HalUgan's Dort Bowl, a 24-lane pal­ace where his novel promotions, designed to build interest in the ancient game, are widely imitated. 
104 s ^ Lesmez 
• ^ ^ 122 TuUamorc Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 
THIS IS IT 
There arc just ten months to go before the Class of '45 holds its 15-year reunion. This Is what we 
have been working for the past five years, and it 
will be now that the real hard work of organizing 1 
and of setting up committees mil begin. But ^}^ 
our work and our organization will go to notbii^y 
if YOU do not cooperate by lending us j-our pres* 
ence next June on campus for a gala week end of 
recollection and friendship. In the next few weeks 
your class secretary will meet vn.i\\ a local commit­
tee on campus to set up the individual functions 
which will be slated for Friday night, Saturday, 
Saturday night and Sunday morning for our class 
reunion weekend. 
Thoic of you who were fortunate enough to have 

made the ten-year reunion know what a delightful 
and wonderful time we all had. Many of tliose 
who attended are still raving about it and are still 
elated with the outcome. No»' the 15-ycar reunion 
is upon us, and 1 am sure that those who were 
here for the tcnih anniversary* will be here for th^^ 
fifteenth. Our only objective is to gather more oT^ 
those unlucky few who were not able to come for 
the tenth, so that we will have over a hundred 
people at our reunion. 
Don't forget, mark down that second weekend in 

June of 1960, for our reunion. 
As bulletins become firmed up, your class secre­

tary has set a polio* ot mailing tlicm out to you. 
You should be getting the first one ver>* shortly. 
Watch for your Reunion Bulletins. 
ENGINEERI.NG OPEN HOUSE Your secretary was very fortimatc in being in-rited to the Engineering Open House at the Uni­versity .April 24, 25 and 26. I went as a reprtyx sentativc of the Spcrrv' Gyroscope Company sincK^ the firm was lending its college display units to the electrical engineering department of the College of Engineering. The campus was lovely as ever and your secretary-was very, ver>' fortunate in having a few friendly words with FATHER CAVxVNAUGH, JIM ARM­STRONG, HAROLD ELLITHORN. DOCTOR HODES, JOHN LrVUGHLIN, REV. JA.MES MOR­AN, and .\fr. F. N. BROAXTC and PROFESSOR EIKENBERRY of the Aeronautical Engineering De­partment. Of particular interest were tlic excellent displays whicli the students made to interest the high school students of the local area and to in­terest industry in engineering actii\ty at Notre Dame. / ^ 
AN APOLOGY Your class secretary* wants to apologize for not having a column in the last issue of the ALUM­NUS, but through a reading error of the sclicdule which was mailed by the Alumni ofiicc, a mailing date of May 15 was misconstrued to mean that tlie deadline date was May 15 and on May 15 I was rushing to get the copy out when I realized that it was the mailing date of the magazine going to the Alumni. It meant that I was really very early for the June 1 deadline of the following is­sue, but that I had missed the previous one. At any rate, tliis gives you a chance to sec what hap­pens when the class secretary is caught sleeping. Tills is one post that must be manned at all time? ^ 'iVith the coming reunion, there will be a bran^ ' ne*v slate of officers and I am hoping that the new class secretary will not make the mistake tliat I have just made. 
A BRAND NEW SLATE OF OFFICERS At the reunion the class will have an opportunity to vote for new ofiicers. As soon as we know what the slates are going to be, wc will let you know; be sure to be ready to cast your vote for a worthy candidate. Your class secretary will be resigning from "political" life because of the strain of busi­ness and because your class secretary believes that ten years of any office is enough, and that someonnrv else should be given an opportunity to serve thK/ class in the same capacity. 
DID YOU KNOW TH-AT. . . 
JAMES ROBERT RETTER is now living at 151 Riclidale Road, Needham Heights, 94, Mass. . . that he and his wife Florence have five little Ret­ters . . . tiiat tlieir names are Jim, Paul, Matthew, Patriua and Susan . . . that James is district sales manager for Union Carbide Chemicals Co. . . . that GEORGE ALFRED SCHWARTZ, JR., has moved to 238 S. 8th St., Philadelphia, 7, Pa. . . . that DR. JAMES F. HARRINGTON'S shingle now hangs over 1001 East Broadway, Logansport, Ind. . . . that Jim and his wife Pcarle have five cliil­dren. Joan and Jean, 11 years old; Jim and Mary£) 7 years old, and Alice, 5 . . . that FRANCIS EU­GENE MOORE resides at 752 N. Main St., AtUc­boro, Mass. .. . that F. HUGH WARD, JR., his wife ^farian and their tliree children, Michael, Anne and Tom, now reside at 16803 Warwick, De­troit 19, Michigan . . . that Hugh is a sales en­
•'nec r at Chicago Rawhide Mfg. Co. . . . that 
HOMAS FRANCIS MULHERN, JR., has moved to 636 Kenwood Dr., Ridgewood, N. J. . . . that ROBERT K. GRIFFIN is president of the Admin­istrative Scmccs Company and lives at 94 Killian Ave., Trumbull, Conn., with his wife Elizabeth and ihcir three children, Robert, Jr., Jean, and Tliomas . . . that WARREN A. a\RTIER now lives at -109 

S. Nevada, Colorado Springs, Colo. . . . that DR. CHARLES PETER SCHWINN, his wife Nancy and six little Schwinns, Catherine, Suzanne, Timothy, Lucinda, Patricia, and Heidi have a new address, San Antonio Community Hospital, Upland, Calif. . . . that .MAJOR DR. ELMER FRANCIS GIL-LESPIE's new address is 7373rd U.S.A.F. Hospital, ^U» 0 10, New York, N.Y. . . . that he is with the fl^.S.A.F. hospital as chief of medical ser\'ice in AJhatcauroux, France . . . that DR. FR/VNCIS CURR.\N now resides at 403 25th Ave., San Fran­cisco, Calil. . . . that HARRY J. WALTERS has resigned his position as assistant district attorney of Bronx County to form a partnership for the general practice of law with EDWARD E. BL\NCO at 369 East 149th St., Bronx 55, N.Y. . . . that EDWARD J. FAUST has moved to 5444 .N. Broad­way, Indianapolis, Ind. . . . that JOHN ROBERT MADDEN has moved to 1296 W. 72nd St., Kansas City 14, Mo. . . . that ART ED\VARDS is in the advertising department of Haynes Stellitc Company, in New York . . . that WILLIAM T. SANTINI's new address is 82 Beacon Hill Road, Dobbs Ferry, 
g^.Y. . . . that TLMOTHY E. BABB has moved to ^29 9 Hillcrcst, Pasadena, Calif. . . . that MICHAEL 
A. BISESI now lives at 1010 RoscIiiU, Boulder, Colo. . . . that WILLIAM ROBERT WRx\PE, II, is liv­ing at 7417 Loretto Lane, Little Rock, Ark. . . . that DR. JOHN .MacDONNELL BARBS* shingle now hangs over Station A, Trenton, N.J. . . . that DR. BERNARD JOHN SCHOO has moved to 1169 Eastern Pkwy., Louisville 17, (Ky.) . . . that DR. AVILLIAM E. avSTLE now lives at 160 East Ave., Lockport, N.Y. . . . that LOUIS F. L.\UTH, JR., resides at 2534 ClifT Rd., Burlington, Iowa .. . that DR. JAMES AMBROSE McGLEW has moved to 399 E. Church St., Marion, Ohio . . . that JAMES LONDERGx\N LrVMB will be a father for the fifth time in August . . . tliat liis David (6), 

^•arr y C8/2), Timothy (4'y4), and Brian (3) may 
^Kiake it a five-some, if it's another boy . . . that Jim practices law with the firm of Dcgnan, Hager. McElroy, and Lamb . . . that his new address is 517 Reeves Drive, Grand Forks, N. D. . . . that DR. EDWARD GER.VLD FORTIER has his new ollice at 8 E. St. Charles Road, Lombard, 111. . . . tliat THOMAS ALOYSIUS McCAUGHNEY Is re­siding at 8411 South Kimbark Ave, Chicago 19, III. . . . that EDNVARD G. FORTIER, .M.D., has four children: Suzanne Marie (8), Martin Gerald (6V2), John Arthur (5), and Robert Emmet (1) . . . that he specializes as an ophthalmologist — which is diseases and snrgcr\' of the eye — in Rosclle, III. . . . finally, that, and this is a BIG "that": THAT!! 
A After ten years of listing all the kids you folks of the class arc being blessed with, and after wait­ing for our own for that much time, my wife, Bet­ty, and I were blessed with a child in July. Tliat's the first one for us. And that's the one I've been wailing to report to you for a mighty long time!! Stork details will follow. 
FLASH! FL.\SH! FI^VSH! 
Your class secretar>' is proud to announce the birth of his first child, Arthur Gerard, 7 pounds, 5 ounces, July 26. 
LOST AND FOUND DEPARTMENT 

^k Anyone knowing the whereabouts of the follow­ing , please notify mc. Letters have been mailed to these classmates, and the letters have come back marked "Unknown at Address" .. . if you have any knowledge of where these "lost" people are residing, please write to let me know: R.-\UL E. a\STRO (not Fidel's brother!), Avenida Guacai­puro. No. 58, Apt. 2, El Rosal, Caracas, Venezuela; FREDERICK J. BIGGS, R.F.D. No. I, MacUpine Place, Ellicott City, .Md.; ARaVDE J. PL.\N*TE, 12302 Ensilon, Gordon Grove, Calif. Please help us to find them. 
OUR SYMPATHY The Class of '45 extends their s>-mpathy to ROB­
ERT A. ('45) and JAMES W. OBERFELL ('48) on 

Ah e death of their mother, Mrs. ^fartlla E. Obcr­
"cll , on December 31, 1958. 
LETTERS-FROM DEPARTMENT From HARRY WALTERS: "On Saturday, De-
FRANK J. CULHANE, '45 For a 2-FoId Task, a Fine "Foundation" 
Frank Culhanc can truly be described as serving a "two-way stretch" since he was elected treasurer of The Formfit Company of Chicago, famed manufacturer of founda­tion garments, by the board of directors early this year. 
Succeeding to the position relinquished by Formfit's president, Frank continues as legal counsel, a post he held formerly as assistant treasurer of the firm. In his* new office he also remains secretary-treasurer and a director of Formfit International, which operates in Jamaica, Morocco, France, Canada, England, South Africa, Australia and Switzerland. Prior to joining Formfit in 1955, he was a tax specialist and senior accountant with .Arthur Anderson and Co., Chicago. 
Frank's Class of '45 designation is arbi­trar>', A veteran of both \V.\V. II and Ko­rea, he has a background in three Notre Dame Glasses studying three different sub­jects. Starting in the NROTC program in 1941, he left in 1944 and saw action as a na\'al officer in the Pacific theater of opera­tions. He returned to receive his account­ing degree in 1948, then stayed on for an 
LL.B. in *50. Recalled for the Korean con­flict, he scr\-ed two years as operations offi­cer on a destroyer and did a tour in Korea before returning Stateside for legal officer duty in California. After separation he went back to his native Chicago and success in civilian business. 
Former Vctville residents, Frank and his wife now have five children and live at 375 AVoodlawn, Glencoe, III. 

cember 6, 1958, my wife, Ann, and I had the great thrill of attending the ordinauon of JOHN McCfVRTHY as a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Jack ^vas a classmate of mine in St. Margaret's grammar school, Manhattan Prep and I followed him to Notre Dame in 1943. He was an original member of the Class of 1546 and was at Notre Dame in the V-12, and returned to scliool to graduate in 1948 after his Navy service. 
Fellows like JIM CLYNES, FRANK LENUUN ; JIM DONNELLY, and TOM BERGIN will remetn­ber ^fac Father Jack will make a wonderful priest. It was one of the great thrills of my life to see him ordained." 
From LCDR. VERNE R. HUBKA: "My ship has been deployed in the Taiwan area for the past five months. We have been at sea for Thanks^ving, Christmas 'and New Years and had a 43-day stint *at sea', continuously. 
"I have followed Notre Dame by *long distance' all these years. It was a long time ago since 1 graduated in 1946. 
*'Bcst wishes to you. I hope to be with my fam­ily next year.*' 
From JIM RETTER: "I was certainly happy to receive your note. I was in Ne^v York City last week and wanted to phone you but didn't moke it. Tried to contact JIM DONNELLY but must have gotten my airlines mLted up. (Jim, you had better phone me the next time, or else!!—^Al). 
"I have been transferred again — this time to Boston where I am the district sales manager for New England — still with Union Carbide Chemi­cals Co. ^Ve have a ne^v* daughter, 3-mQnth-old Susan, which makes' our family three boys and two girls. 
"I am quite anxious (o get active and meet the 

N. D. fellows here. Can you give me the address of the Boston Notre Dame Club Secretary?" (Jim, please see Directory. Best rcgards^.M). 
From REV. XLVRK G. McGR.\TH, CS.a : "Your steady devotion to N. D. through the Class of '45 is such as to shame even a Holy Cross priest. Here we are spreading as well as we can N. D.'s ideal of practical and generous Christianity in a country of great natural and Christian potential whicli is undeveloped in large matter due to the lack of sufficient trained leaders and technicians both in higher and lower classes, coupled with a certain characteristic indolence — the indolence of leisure for the upper levels; the indolence of gen­erations. Centuries of passivity among the poor. A prayer from each of '45 %vould go a long way to help N. D.'s priests here." 
From REV. G. McMAHON, CS.C : "Here^vith the salient points of a letter I just received from DICK YOUNG: "You know that I got married in November, 1954. Upon returning to the hotel after my wedding I found a note from a priest in which he requested me to meet him at the Cardinal's Palace. Montse and I stopped by on bur u*ay out of town and were pleased to meet Fathers JOSEPH QUIN*N and PAT PEYTON, a couple of good 
C.S.C. men. Tlicy, of course, were working on some details of the Family Rosary with the Cardi­nal. We were fortunate because of this visit to receive the blessing of both of them and the Cardi­nal. Not a bad thing to have on your wedding day. Father Peyton naturally requested that Montse and I pray the Rosary every day, which we have done, starting that very day. 
" 'Our first daughter u-os born on Oct. 11, 1955 and we named her Montserrat after her mother. Our first son was bom on Jan. 16, 1957 and wc named him Ricardo after his father. Our second daughter was bom on June 1, 1958 and we named her Teresita. AVhat we will name the next one — now on the way — I cannot say as yet as my wife hasn't told mc. 
" 'I was back in the States for a couple of weeks in July, 1957, as my father died on the 30th of June. . . 
*' *I expect to be In Spain another year at least, unless something unforeseen happens. The living here is perfectly adequate and life is very peaceful. However, one of these days I'll have to get back to the 'rat race' . . . before the kids arc too old." (Letter dated Dec 3, 1958).' 
"That's it, ^\I. There you have it from the horse's mouth. .And in case anyone wants to write to the 'horse,* his address is: R. R. YOUNG, Brown-Ra>-mond-^\'aIsh, APO 285, New York, N.Y. 
"I think I told you in a previous letter that Young had married a Spanish girl. 
"I know you're very busy with all your corre­spondence, so I want to say that there is no need to answer this letter. I know ^vhat It is to be busy. Yours in Our Lord." 
Tliat's all the news, for a while. ^Vrite me. you of the class who love to read this column, ^fake my last two or three columns easy so I can go out In a blaze of glory. 
From the Alumni Office: M didn't mention it, but the changes of address above are pretty strong on doctors. At the risk of turning the column into a medical directory we'll report that DR. 0\VEN W. DOYLE has been pro­moted from assistant professor to associate professor 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1959 57 
of radiology- in the Duke University School of Medi­
cine, Durham, N. C. 
DA\'E CONDON has done it again. His stor>-, 

"The Man She Loved," describing Ken Vcnturi*s 
Chicago open golf victory in terms of his wife's re­
actions, %\as selected for the antIiolog>', "Best Sports 
Stories of 1958." It originally appeared in Dave*s 
Walce of tlie News column in llic Chicago Tribune. 
194 A J^*^*^ Tcngc, Jr. 
• ' ** 2025 W. SK Mile Rd. Detroit 3, Michigan 
From the Alumni Office: Vou can now reacJi CHRIS W. COCHRANE at \^a Gramsci 28, Apt. 5, ParioH, Rome, Italy. Since arriving in Rome he has been taken into the Notre Dame Club of Rome by VINCE McALOON, '34, who. sa\-s Chris, "has cvcrj-thing here so well organized that it is like a precision Swiss watcli. It will be a genuine pleasure to work with him and further llic Notre Dame Spirit in the Eternal City. Tlic N. D. rendezvous, Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant, here is another of \nnce's accomplishments and a must on any visiting N. D. grad's itinerary of Rome." He continues: "I Iiavc been appointed regional manager for the Middle East by my cor­poration (WiUys-Ovcrland E-\porl) with headquar­ters in Rome. My territoo' covers Aden, Bahrein Islands, C>prus, Eg>-pt, Eritrea, Greece, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Sau­di Arabia, the Somalilands, Sudan, Syria, Turkey, Yemen and Yugoslavia. Therefore, if we have any 
N. D. men in those countries, I'd be glad to look tliem up during my \'isits,** 
From Honolulu International Airport comes ^vord tliat PAUL M. JOHNSTONE, JR., former aero­dynamics design engineer with Douglas Aircraft, has been named Opt-rations Engineer for Hawaiian Air­lines in Honolulu. In his 13 years u-ith Douglas Paul was an acrod>Tiamics specialist for the DC-6 and OC-7, the DC-8 jet transport and several mtli­tar>* projects, was a special consultant for several months in LaPaz, Bolivia. A perennial civic toiler back in California, Paul lives now at 238 Kaimana­wai Place, Honolulu, with his uife, the former Joan Chandler of Rocknlle Center, Long Island, and their three cliildren, Scott, age 9; Joel, 6, and Cor>' Anne, nearly 4. 
DR. JOHN A. CULLIG/\N, whose father and brothers are mentioned in this Issue, recently took an M. S. in surgery' from the U. of Minnesota. 
Jack Miles 

1947 
3218 Bentley Lane South Bend, Ind. 

TWO DOAV^N ANT) THREE TO GO — That's the reunion story, lads: Two reunion week ends have sped post since our 10th, and the I5tb looms just three short (you think I'm kidding?) years ahead. It is not too early to tell the Missus: "Don't plan on my being around to cut tlie grass the second week end in June, 1962, dear! I'll be back under the Dome for a long-aniicipatcd week end out with the boys," 
For tJiose of you wlio still remain unwed Reserve that week end in your date books instead. 
REU-NION, 1959 None of the '47 gang returned this past June, but JIM MURPHY and I flitted around from hall to hall cadging free grub and beer in your behalf. Jim spent some time with the *44 outfit (more about this unprincipled crew later) and the '54 boj-s, of which his brother is a member, and I had a fine buffet meal with the '49 class Friday night, thanks to local diaJrman &VRLOS CORONA of that class. Some of the names you may remember, and with ^vliom we chatted during the evening, are DAVE SLATTERY, '48, now secretary to new Head Coach JOE KUHARICH, JIM KLOCKENKE.MPER, TED BUDYNKIEWICZ (a surprisingly svelte 225!); JIM O'HALLORAN, JOE DOYLE, sports editor of the South Bend Tribunej TOM RIGGIO, FATHER JIM SHILT5, C.S.C., and a number of others from '-^. Being w-ith tliese men for even a brief time whet­ted ray appetite for our own conclave in '62, and we can promise you tlic finest time you've had in a long while when you s^vell the 15-year roster. 
SPOT SHOTS 

An announcement card at hand informs us that JOHN T. KELEHER of Elmhurst has moved his law office to 1 N. LaSalle St. in the Windy City, 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 
At an informal reunion of Notre Dame men scr\-ing their districts in the House of Rcpre " sentatives during the 91st Indiana General Assembly this year arc (standing, from left) Otto Pozgay, '49, South Bend; Alexander Lysohir, '53; Portland; John I. Bradshaw, Jr., *52, Indianapolis, and (seated) WiUiam G. Greif, '51; Evansville. Reps. Lysohir, Bradshaw and Grief were serving their first terms in the legislature, and Pozgay ivas in his fourth con­
secutive term. 
Good luck in your new location, Johnno, and bow 'bout a message from you on current events in the Kcleher scrapbook? 
BILL JANN, who has been %%-ith the Hertz or­ganization for 10 years, has recently been appointed general sales manager of Hertz's Rcnt-A-Car divi­sion i^ith full authority for formulating its national sales policies. Bill lives in Chicago Heights with his wife, Jo Anne, and their two children. 
Just across the state line from Bill, JI.M KNOB­LOCH, who garnered his M.S. in '47, has become -senior research scientist In the Whiting laboratory of Standard Oil of Indiana. 
During a recent annual meeting in the Hoosicr resort center of French Lick, our treasurer, JOE SHARP, was named to the board of directors of the Indiana Association of Certified Public Account­ants. 
.•\nd the population of Detroit was increased by one in April when JOHN M. HENRY and his wife Margaret became the parents of young Thomas Ed­ward. 
Congratulations to all of you on your respective achievements! 
REQUIESCANT Please remember in your prayers Lee C Mc­Namara, wlio died earlier this year after having sent eight sons to Notre Dame, including JOE Mc-NAMARfV of our own class To Joe and his broth­ers and the other members of the family, our sin­cerest s>Tnpalhv, also to FRANK GILHOOLEY, whose dad, FRANK P. GILHOOLEY, SR., a forr mcr Yankee outfielder, died July 11 in Toledo. Although J.ACK QUINL/\N didn't graduate until 1948, many of us know Iiim and consider him one of our own; his father also died recently and he'll appreciate your prayers for the repose of the soul of his dad, I know. A dozen years since graduation, and already ihcrc are more than a dozen of our fellovx-s who won't make any more reunions. 
^fost recent of these prematurely dead is JOHN 
S. FORSTER, who died early in June in Coral Ga­bles, Fla., where he had been operations manager and secretar>--trcasurer of tlie Cramdon Wholesale Drug Co. 
John, who u'as a member of tlie Veterans Club at school, Afas buried in bis native Milwaukee. News of his passing was received right at press time, so furtlier details aren't available at this time. 
To his bereaved vvidow and son, wc extend earnest and heartfelt s>TnpatIiy; as an expression of tliat sympathy, FATHER JOHN A. DRISCOLL, C.S.C., olTered a Requiem High Mass July 9 in Christ thr King Churcli, South Bend, for the repose of John's 
MIUI. 
And FATHER ARTHUR S. HARVEY, C.S.C., sang a Requiem Mass July 30 on campus in mem­ory of all 13 of our deceased mates. The other i^f\ in case vour memories arc short, are PETER J. ^ CrVSTELLI, WILLIAM P. DEL^VNEY, ^\^LLIAM 
B. DOUGHERTY, HERBERT .\f. FRIEND, NOEL 
H. GOTrESM.\N, CU\RE C. LESER, GEORGE 
J. SCHOTT, RUSSELL S. UNDERWOOD, LEON­ARD A. WALL, REV. MR. EDWARD B. WIL­LIAMS, WILLIAM A. PFISTER, and FR;\NK G. PETERS of Chicago, who died tvvo years ago, as we learned in the June issue. 
Frank was included in the intentions of the July 30 Mass offered by Father Harvc\', of course, and a Requiem High Mass was also said on campus for the repose of his soul by FATHER .\L\TTHEW MICELLI, C.S.C., in the second week of July. (Father Matt, cliaplain for the Brothers at the firchouse this summer, refused to accept a stipend^^ bless his heart, for our treasurj- is getting mighty^ low!) 
Pray for them as you would have us pray for you when your time comes. A more tangible re­membrance beyond your prayer duty is to send $1 or more for our Mass fund, for which you'll re­ceive a card listing these men and some appropriate devotions. 
YO HO HOCUS-POCUS No pirate galleon flying the Jolly Roger floated in St. Mary's lake over the reunion week end; nei­ther did a cutlass swish nor a swash buckle. But marauders were at work nonetheless, led by such^v brigands as BLACK GEORGE BARISCILLO anSj LONG JOHN L\'NCH. Plied no doubt with promises of grog and gaiety at tlie past reunion, 10 of our cohorts have de­serted the Good Ship '47 and signed aboard the '44 barken tine! The ID who succumbed to the Circe-like lure of the jug-and-sobbing-violin obligato rendered by the aforementioned buccaneers are: HEROLD JOHN­SON, GENE SLEVIN, BILL ^\'YLIE, VIC COL­LETTI, JACK GUTHRIE, CHARLIE PATTER­SON (little did I realize when I asked for word from this Dome A^vard winner that the word vvould be "Bye!"), JOE RIGNEY, GERRY STANTON, PAUL UNVERZAGT, and JACQUES \^EENEMAN. If any of you know these gentlemen w*ell, your ef-^ forts to help convince tlicm of the error of thcir^' ways will be most vvclcome. They arc free to transfer to any class they wish, of course, but if the '47 class is to maintain any 
esprit de corps, any identity, any "viv-ity" at all, it jnust retain as \"alucd members many of those who formally \vould have graduated earlier, had not 
^^rvice duties intcr\-cned. 
The ver>' strength of our class has been its di­%'enity, it seems to this obser\'er, for counterbal­ancing the callou'ncss of the teen-agers among us Avas al\va)*s the maturity and ^vorldly-wisdom of the service returnees in their mid- and even Iatc-20's. 
That relationship is not a valid argument nou­that years have aged us all, but it was then and Still represents a strong point in our makeup. 
If wc arc to grow and function efHcicntly as a class — albeit one whidi meets formally only once each five years — we must be able to count on a hard core of loyalists as a nucleus. Stick with us, men, and together we can forge the class of '47 into a mighty and influential link in the alumni chain. 
% LOTTERY LETTER 
This issue we've plucked the name of ART Mc­3RIDE of the Cleveland McBrides in the hope he'll get into the spirit of this Iottcr>* idea and drop 41 note this way bringing us up-to-date on himself: none of his predecessors has so far, so come on. Art. . . we're pinning our hopes on you! 
ADDRESS CHAXGES 

Xcw addresses are av'ailable for JACK ALEXAN­I>ER, TOM BRISTOL, FR.VXCIS A. CVRR, KELLY COOK, BILL COSGROVE, GERRY COWHIG, ALVIN FEUER, CORNELIUS A. FOW­LER, DR. AVILLLVM H. GARNER, JR., JOHN 
•GOOD, RUSS JENSEN, FRED JONES, a\R L JU­J.IEN , FRANCIS M. KOBAY/VSHI, L.VRRY 
9.YNCH, JIM McGURK; JOHN MULLEN, JIM MUSSELM.VN, RICHARD H. PE.\RSE, OTTO A. SH/\NDER, JR., FRANCIS J. SIL\NNON, DR. THOM/VS E. SN\T)ER, JOHN L. TOKICH, DICK UNGASHICK, CHARLES E. ZANGERLE, JR., TOM NIQUETTE, a\PT. JOHN B. HYNES, LOU HORNING, PAT SMID, FRxVNCIS E. REY, JACK EASLEY, BROTHER ELWIN BORES, C.S.C., ROBERT A. FOOS, DON JACKSON, AL.\N H. 
•GUARD, JI.M SHEA, CHUCK YAKEMOMS, WILBUR D. SHELLENBARGER, JOE McMANUS, CHARLES J. JOINER, JOE EMOND, BILL GUALDERON, CxVPT. JAMES E. QUINN, REV. MR. WALTER O. BOZEK, and TOM AfcGUIRE. 
IN CLOSING. . . 

^k With football season right around the corner. 
^Rany of you will be returning to South Bend for the big week ends to get a look at the "new" Irish, 
o r Jack's name is in the phone book, and we'll he pleased to hear from any and all of you and to welcome you to our home lor: a preview of the game if it's Friday night, or a rehash of the clash if you make it Saturday evening or Sunday. ^\Tiat­
•ever the time or the occasion, there's alu-a^-s a cold •one with your name on it at our South Bend oasis. 
Prom the .-Mumni Ofltcc: 
From Tucson, Ariz., comes word that a one-time <Jassmate, JAMES E. DURBIN, has been made a wce-prcsident and member of the board of directors of the Pioneer Hotel Corp. Jim, from a hotel fam­
 in Rushville, Ind., has four brothers in the 

fy 
usiness. He came to manage the Pioneer in 1957 irom jobs with hotels in Salt Lake City and Spo­kane. Jim continues as manager of the hotel. 
At this writing his assignment is not known for :sure, but ED RUETZ is studying for the priesthood. 
Wc haven't heard from Whiting, Ind., whether BILL OBERMILLER was successful in his primarv* hid for <uty judge. Earlier, for his service to the 
•community, leadership, etc.. Bill received the Ham­mond area Junior Chamber of Commerce Distin­guished Scr\*ice Award as "Young Man of the Year 1958." 
JAMES O. KNOBLOCH, who took his master's chemistr>' in '47 and a doctorate in '49, is now 
«nior research scientist for Standard Oil (Indiana) at the Whiting research laboratories. A member of the American Chemical Society, he specializes in diemicals obtained from petroleum. Dr. and Mrs. Knobloch live in Hobart, Ind. 
1 948 ^°^" Dcfant 
c/o University Press Notre Dame, Ind. 

«
Not much more than a week before the deadline for this issue of the ALUMNUS, questionnaires were sent out to approximately one-fourth of the 1035 members of the class. With the deadline now st, about 30 of them have already been returned. le first group of questionnaires was sent to those whose names start with A, B, C, and D, and we'll work through the rest of the class in or out of alphabetical order during the course of the year. 
DR. RALPH E. THORSON, '48 
From Savoy Stage to Lobund Lab 

Back in .April Father Hesburgh an­nounced the appointment of Ralph Thorson as head of Notre Dame*s department of biology, Ralph, formerly a professor of parasitology' at Alabama Polytechnic Insti­tute, Auburn, Ala., was also named to direct the germfree life research programs at the University's Lobund laboratories. 
A native of Ghatfield, Minn., Ralph dis­

tinguished himself as an undergrad with 
performances in N. D. University Theater 
productions of evcr>'thing from Shakespeare 
to student musicals. He won particular 
fame for his portraj'als of the Lord Chan­
cellor, Major General and other roles in 
Gilbert & Sullivan operettas produced by 
the Savoyards. Originally a pre-med, he%vas 
drawn to the lab and followed up his bache­
lor's degree in biology with a master's in 
1949. He went on to The Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Md., where he ^vas 
awarded an Sc.D. in parasitology in 1952. 
During 1952-53 Ralph serx'cd as an in­structor in The Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health. Except for a two-year period he has been associated with the School of Vcterinar>- Medicine at Au­burn since 1953. Hired as an associate pro­fessor, he was clc\'atcd last year to the rank of full professor and named director of the school's diagnostic laborator)*. From 1956 to 1958 he was a research parasitologist at the Lederle Laboratories Division of Ameri­can Cyanamid, Pearl River, N.Y. 
In 1952 he married Margaret Vorth of Baltimore. The Thorsons have three daugh­ters, Jane, 6; Kristin Ingcr, 3, and Juliannc, 
0 

The questionnaires will be mailed in three more groups to avoid an avalanche of returns at one time. 
Here are some of the vital statistics garnered from the questionnaires already returned: DON ALBRIGHT (6136 Kaynm Dr., NE, Atlan­ta 5, Ga.) is now chief accountant for the Shell 
Oil Co. in Atlanta. He was married, in 1948, lias three children, and would like to hear from P. M. Ross and M. C. Hoaglund. 
JOHN ALVAREZ, JR., (2823 Baker St.. San Francisco 23, Calif.), who is still a bachelor. Is a research analyst doing market research for Kaiser Steel Corp., in Oakland. 
JOHN APPELBE (8329 N. lOth Ave.. Phoenix, Ariz.) notes that he periodically sees DON BRADY and PETE DASCHBACH. He describes them, re­spectively, as a "Los Angeles automobile tycoon" and a "San Mateo pediatrioan." John, who mar­ried Dorothy Ryan of Tresno, Calif., in 1955 and has three children, is produce buyer and secretary-treasurer of the O'Donnell Fruit Co. of Pittsburgh, Pa. 
BOB BACH (4337 Wooddalc Ave., Minneapolis, Minn.) is a manufacturer's representative for five companies in the hardware, building matenals, and 
, appliances fields. Married since 1952 to Jane Shea of Minneapolis, he has four children! He notes that JIM BESENFELDER and family, who live in De­Kalb, III., visit in Minneapolis almost every sum­mer and that Jim is still consistently flirting with par, just OS he did on the golf team at N. D. Bob would like to hear from JOHN REGAN, ROBERT RONNEY, BILL ARCHIBALD, and GENE BAUM­GARTNER. 
PETER BAKER (181 Sherwood Road, Bristol, Conn.) is manager of the Physical Test Laboratory of the New Departure Division of CMC in Bristol. Xfarricd in 1952, his five children range in age from six vears to ten months. 
BR.AD BENNET (2129 Mardina St., W. Covina, Calif.) coach of cross-country and teacher of math, at West Covina High School, was married in 1950 in the Netherlands and now has four children. He passes along the information that RUDV KE&fP-TER is a mechanical engineer at Con\-air, as is PAUL KISZELI. 
BOB BENTON (120 South State St., Greenfield, Ind.) is a management anal>3t with the U. S. Naval Avionics Facility of Indianapolis. Married in 19^, he is the father of five children. He pages JBI FrrZGERALD and BOB CONATY for news. 
JOHN BLACKHURST (4506 Hampshire, AKd­land, Mich.), who received an M.D. from Michigan in 1952, is practicing medicine in Midland. He is married to the former Aldeone Frances Snyder. 
EUGENE BOLLT (8755 Snowden Ave., Pacoima, Calif.) is doing economic research for the Security First National Bank of Los Angeles. He joined Se­curity last year after having been with Dun Jfc Bradstreet for ten years. He and his wife Helen ha\rc two children. 
PAUL BRACKEN (22578 Peachiree Lane, Rocky River 16, Ohio), who is office and plant manager as well as secretary of the Cleveland Wood Box Co., is married to the former Lenore Anne Sroub, St. Mary's, *47, and has three children. He would Uke to have some news from EDWARD CHUTE, JOHN SULLIVAN, CHARLES DODGE, and J.AMES DINNEN. 
JAXiES E. BURKE (3350 Holly Ave., Cincinnati 8, Ohio) is supervisor of the Product Public Rela­tions Di\'ision of Procter and Gamble in Cincinnati. He and Rosemary E^en were married in 1950, and they have four children. 
GEORGE BURNS (2 York Ave., BcthPage, L. I., N.Y.) is a CPA and chief accountant of the Inter­national Di\'ision of the U. S. Rubber Co. He mar­ried Jane Gill in 1950, and they have three children. 
JOHN CAHILL (Richfield, Wis.) received a law degree from Marquette in 1950 and is now engaged in the practice of law in Mihvaukee. He, too, has five children, four boys and one girl. 
TOM CARLIN (9 Normandy Drive, Champaign, III.), who was recently appointed store manager of the Gold Blah Bros, department store in the County Fair Shopping Center in Champaign, has four chil­dren and is asking for new3 from HERB COLE­MAN, JIM MELLO, .ANGELO BERTELLI, COR­NIE CLATT, JOHN LUJACK, BILLY HASSEIT. TOM SHEEHAN, and FRANK GILHOOLEY. 
PAUL CARROLL (486 Cornwall Ave., Tona^va^­da, N.Y.), and his wife Mary boast of six children, four bo>*s and two girls, ranging in ages from 12 to I. Paul is a phj'sicist with the Carborundum Co. of Niagara Falb. 
JACK CHARON (5801 E. 22nd PL, Tulsa, Okla.) sends word that JOHN TJLWE, is in the electrical business in Kansas City. Jack is manager of the Gas Measurement and Payments Department of the Warren Petroleum Corp. in Tulsa. He was mar­ried in 1953. 
JOHN CLEMENS (630 S. Berry Road, St. Louis 22, Mo.) stepped in as Section Manager of the Equipment Development Electronics Department o! McDonnell Aircraft last year. Married to the for­mer Joyce .Ann Crawford of E\'ansville, Ind., he has 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 2959 59 
four children. John Avorked \«th FRITZ SHADLEY and BOB MUELEMAN at Croslcy in Cincinnati un­til he left the firm last vcar to join McDonnell. 
PAT CONDON (122 Scescr St., Joliet, 111.), a sales representative for Norma HofTmann Bearings of Chicago, is one of the class' numerous five-star men. His five arc made up of tlircc girls and two bo\-s, 
JOHN CONNOLLY (1301 First St., Chcrrj-, III.) is with the State Bank of Chcrr>' as a director and assistant cashier. He also practices law and is a partner in an insurance agenc\*. No wonder the man is still a baclielor! 
TOM CO\'NE has moved from Chicago to 771 Lobos St., Monterey, Calif. His questionnaire was returned to me from Chicago instt^ of being for­wardrd to him. 
JOHN CRADDOCK (1408 Sunset Dr., Tyler, Tex.) is district sales representative for the Elgin Waich Co. To the question, "Who were your room­mates at N. D.?" he answered, "JOHN CASH­MAN, TO.M HOB.\N, JIM EVERT, and my wife." He cleared it up by adding that lie was married in 1946. He has three cliildren. 
JOHN CRONIN (6111 Scarlet Drive, Cincinnati, O.) who is general sales manager of Cronin ifotor Co., a Ford dealer in Cincinnati, is president of the Cincinnati Alumni Club. He and Rosemar>' Hayden were married in 1948, and they have three cliildrcn. He reports that JERRY MAHON is in sales %x-ilh National Steel Co., and FRANK PELU­SO is industrial relations manager of Cincinnati Bickford Co. 
CHARLES CUCULLU (2358 E. 70th St., Chicago 
49) is an engineer in the dr>-er diWsion of Link-Belt Co. of Chicago. Married in 1956 to Joyce Davis, he has two cliildrcn. 
RALPH CUNNINGHAM (3981 Fairfax Drive, Chattanooga 5, Tenn.) is machine development en­gineer for Dupont. He designs and develops new macliines for the production of sucli fibers as nylon, dacron, and orlon. He was married to Dorotliy .Anne Ahrends in 1950, and they have three cliildren. His brother Tom, *47, died of polio in 1952. 
GENE DEAN (43 Wcstland Rd., Cedar Grove, N.J.) gels tlic nod as tlie class* best reporter. He sent in enough news with his questionnaire to make a fairly respectable '48 column all by itself. To talk about Gene first, he is manager of labor rela­tions for the .-Vmerican Cyanamid Co. of New York City, married Jean Francis Connell in 1953, and has two cliildren. He reports: LEO COSTELLO of Paterson, N.J., just had his fifth cluld; GEORGE KEENAN, Upper Montclair, N,J., is sales manager of Wcstinghousc TV and radio; JOHN (BUNKY) REGAN, Wharton, N.J., is production manager of MacGregor Sports Wear; BILL FITZft\RRIS, New York, is sales manager of U. S. Rubber Co. in New York City; a golf outing of the New Jersey Club in June included Gene, Regan, George Keenan. Loo Costcllo, FRANK TRIPUCKA, ANGELO BER­TELLI, BRUCE DODD, JOE LONG, JOE O'­TOOLE and JOE BYRNE; and BILL GO.MPERS of Detroit just added a sixth diild to his family. 
BOB DEEGA N (1165 Ross Ave., Abilene, Tex.), a partner in the ^Yllceler-Dcegan Insurance Agenc>', also married a '47 graduate of St. Marj-'s, Theresa Hannagan. Tlicjr four cliildren include a set of twins. 
DON DICK (413 W. Fcrr^* St., Berrien Springs, Mich.) has his own law firm in Berrien Springs and has three children. 
JOHN DiG.\.\N (1519 E. .\ltgcld St.. South Bend), vice-president and trust officer of the First National Bank of Mishawaka, mentions that FRANK BRINKMAN is now living in Bay City, Midi. John has four children. 
NOEL piGBY (318 North Woodlawn, Kirkwood 22, Mo.), is a radio and T\'^ writer-director-producer with the Gardner Advertising Co. of St. Louis. He and his wife, the former Elizabetli Ann Kamm, hold, to tlic best of my knowledge, the class record for number of children — seven. He's looking for news from PAUL LIMONT, TEX PIQUIGNEY, TOM SCHERER, ED a\SHNL\N, EMMETT O'NEILL, J.\CK LEAHY, JOE FL\TW. JIM CASSIDY, BOB SCHELLENBERG, and BOB DEEGAN. 
DAN DILLON (458 N. Chestnut St., Butler, Pa.) received his M.D. from Georgetown in '53 and is now Chief Resident in Surger>' at Merc>* Hospital, Pittsburgh. Married in 1956 to Joan Mar\' Beard, he has one child. 
ED DIXON (217 S. Hutdiinson Ave., Munde, Ind.) is a partner in a law firm in Munde and deputy prosecutor of the County. He and his wife Jo Ann have four children. 
RENE DOGNAUX (2435 Wabash Ave., Vincen­nes, Ind.) is Wee-president of the Blackford Window Glass Co. of Vincennes. He and his wife, the for­mer Dorothy Jane Opel!, have two children. He 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 

^V'ILKES-BARR£—Confinning a top local athlete's enrollment at Notre Danic, (from left) Wilkes-Barre Club President Ray Sobota, '49, coufcrs with PIAA official Bob Jones; pros­pective freshman £d Rutkowski, Pennsylvania All-State quarterback, and his uncle, Andrew Victor. 
would like to hear from JIM McCARTHY. AR­THUR BREHL, and JIM BUTLER. 
JIM DONOHUE (39 Daleuood Way, San Fran­cisco 27) teaches at Galileo High School in San Francisco. His wife, the formcc Vera Barulich, wliom he married in 1956, died in 1958 giring birth to twin daughters. Jim plans to marr>' Louise Dods, and by the time you read this he will be married. 
JOE DUFFEY (137 Puritan Rd., Tonawanda, N,Y.) is technical director of DcAfarkus Corp., an engineering design and manufacturing firm in the chemical plant field. He married Doris Cofer In 1949 and is the father of four diildren. He men­tions that DR. BERNARD POPHAM is an internal mcdidne specialist in Louisville. 
BOB DUFFEY (Box 474, Perry Point, Md.) is a ps>'diologist in a treatment, training and research hospital of the Veterans Administration. He has an MA from Wisconsin, a Ph.D. from Purdue, and took post-doctoral training at Catholic U. He and Iiis wife, the former Evelyn Gore, have four diildren. 
FRANK DUGG.4N (212 E. Rutscn St.. Rensse­laer, Ind.) is assistant professor of English at St. Joseph's College in Rensselaer. He and his wife, the former Barbara Daly of South Bend, have tlircc diildren. Hearing from him brought to mind the powerful short stor>*, whose title I have now for­gotten, that he wrote for the JUGGLER when he was the editor. It appeared in several anthologies and is still arousing a great deal of comment. Classmate FATHER JOHN REEDY mentioned re­cently that he used it not so long ago as the theme for a sermon. 
GEORGE OUTER (59 Steriing Rd., Loutsnile 18, Ky.), who tacks an M.D. after his name, is a surgeon In Louisville. He has three diildren and is married to the former Bcrnjcc Posey. 
JOHN OUTER (4213 Willow Grove Rd., Dallas, Tcx.) is an independent oil operator. His wife is the former Frandnc Bcggs, and they have four chil­dren. 
Tliat winds up the information given on tJie questionnaires received to date. The next bundi u-ill go out soon after this issue is in your hands. Pleacs fill them out and mail them to me just as soon as you can. 
JOSEPH T. DORAN of North Vernon, Ind., didn't fill out a questionnaire, but %ve've heard he's just been appointed an assistant professor of sod­ology at the University of Dayton. Joe got his master's at N. D. in '49 and has been a teaching fellow on campus working for Ins doctorate. He's done juvenile work in Chicago and Cleveland and has already taught at Our Lady of Cincinnati Col­lege and Xavier U. 
DOMINIC J. MOFFO, %vho has lived at 719 N. Carroll, Midiigan City, Ind., white ser\'ing as ad­mtiustrative assistant and office manager of Gardcx, Inc., has been named assistant comptroller of the Heath Co., Benton Harbor electronic manufacturer. Oom had an army hitch and was also an income tax investigator. The Moffos have five children. 
BOB .MORAN, who is with Strawbridgc & Clo­thier in Philadelphia, is engaged to MARY JEAN BATAL, an instructor in medical sodal work at the Boston University School of Mcdidne. 
Your prayers are asked for the fathers of LEO McNAMARA and FRANK ^VOLF, both of wliom died in early April. Seven of Leo C. ^fcNamara's sons graduated from Notre' Dame and an eighth attended for two years. 
Your Secreiao* ran inio GEORGE SCHNURLE, who I discovered is looking for a position, prefer­ably in banking or allied'fidds. He has been in banking since graduation and left his last position^ for personal reasons. He told mc that he has c-V^ ccllent references. So if any of you know of an opening please contact George at 53827 Walnut Rd., New Carlisle, Ind. 
1 949 J°^" Walker 
'^ ' 826 Wing St. 
Elgin, 111. 

TOM ADAMS, ALBERT L. ALLGAIER, JOSEPH ANDERSON, TERRENCE ARMSTRONG, PAUL BAILEY, LEO BARNHORST, ROBERT W. BAU­.MANN, GEORGE BENNING, PHILIP BLUM, DONALD BOOTH, EUGENE E. BOURGEOIS^ RICHARD BROEREN, FRANK BROGAN, JOH ® BROG/\N, THADDEUS J. BUDYNKIEWICZr FREDERICK BURGER, JAMES BURKE, ROB­ERT H. CAMPBELL, WILLIAM a\RR, AVIL­LIAM CARTER, ARTHUR aVSSIDY, JOHN CLARK, CHARLES COMES, LEO CONDRON, LAWRENCE S. CONNOR, CARLOS CORONA, MICHAEL A. OeCICCO, JOHN P. DEMPSEY, VICTOR A. DeSIMON, LOUIS DiGIOVANNI, EUGENE DOLLARD, DICK DONOGHUE, JOHN DOUGHERTY, WARD DRISCOLL, PAT DURKIN, JOHN EARLY, CHARLES EBNER, BERNARD M. ELL, WILLIAM ENGLEHART, FR*\NK FAHEY. EDWARD J. FAY, DON C. FEICHTER, MELVIN FENOGLIO, G. A. FEftji RARI, PAT FINAN, G. D. FITZPATRICK, G^ RARD J. FrrZPATRICK, JOHN FOGARTY, FRANCIS FORGIONE, FRANCIS FORTON, JACK FRAIER, PETE FRIDAY, J.\MES F. GAG­NON, STEPHEN GALLr\, RAY CANS, DON GATENS, FRANCIS E. GAUL, JOSEPH S. GEI­SEL, J. T. GILL, LARRY GILLING, WILLIAM GORMAN. JOSEPH J. GORMLEY, ROBERT GREGORITS, JOSEPH GRIFFIN, JAMES HAGE­DORN, ALBERT M. HARDEST\% ROD HAY­DEN, ROBERT H. HAYES, NORMAN A. HEN­NESSY, THOMAS HESSERT, JOHN HILBRICH, HAROLD L. HOFFER, HAROLD HOFFMAN, R^W HOLDEN. RICHARD HOY, ERNIE HUFF­MAN, JOHN HUMMEL, ALBERT IFFLANDER, JOHN JACOBS, ROBERT JONES, ROBERT |% KANE, FRANK KAUFMANN, FRANK KEA?: ING, THOMAS J. KELLY. PETER KERNAN, JIM KESTING, GEORGE KIERNAN, TOM KING. JAMES KLOCKENKEMPER, DICK 
they didn't all step out of one Lark, although it's implied in this publicity photo of N.D. stunmcr students, representing a dozen Cath­|ic orders, on a tour of the South Bend plant of Studebaker*Packard Corp., manufacturers of this entry in the ^'compact car" sweepstakes. 
KLUCK, RICHARD KOPF, GEORGE KOR­HUMEL. THOMAS KR.\SS, MILT KUPFER, JACK LAMBERT, OTIS P. LAMBERT, LEE LaROCQUE, JIM LASKOSKE, JOHN LaVIGNE, RAYMOND ^L LELIAERT, AL LESKO, JOHN 
O. LOOK, ROBERT R. LUTHER, ROBERT LYDEN, ROBERT LYNCH, JOHN LYONS, THOMAS McFARLAND, TOM McGUIRE, GENE MAGUIRE, ROBERT MAHONEY, FRANK NLA­LEY, FRANK MANCINO. JAMES NLANNING, ^ E MARA, J. L. MARCHELEWICZ, WILLIAM 
VARSHALL , JAMES MARTIN, JAMES E. MAR­TIN, JOHN NLARTINA, NLARTIN MATICH, ED MEEHAN, PATRICK MEENAN, E.\RL E. MEI­SENBACH, LAWRENCE METCALF, JACK MOL­rrOR, JOHN F. MOORHEAD, MANUEL J. MOROUN, BOB MORRIS, J. F. MORTELL, GERALD S. MURPHY, PETER MURPHY, BOB 
A. MURPm', WILLIAM H. MURPHY, \\aL-LIAM MURTAGH, LOUIS J. MUSTICO, FRAN­CIS NARDI, JOE NAUMAN, CHARLES J. NEFF, THOMAS J. NEFF, REV. WILLIAM NEIDHART, JOHN NESTER, WILLIAM NOLDEN, THOMAS 
L. NOVAK, AL OBERGFELL, JOSEPH O'­BOYLE, JOHN 0*BRIEN, JOSEPH O'BRIEN, THONLVS S. O'BRIEN, DANIEL O'CONNELL, 
^C K OGREN, JAMES E. O'HALLORAN, JOHN 
W. 0»HARA, JOSEPH T. O'HARA, EUGENE J. O'NEIL, ORNLVND W. ORMSBY. EDWARD O'ROURKE, JACK O'ROURKE, PAUL PARK­ER, GEORGE PFAFF. WTLLIAM PHELAN, BER­NIE POWERS, STEVE PROVOST, MYLES H. QUAIL, HARRY QUINN, BRUCE RAFF. DON RATCHFORD, REV. JAMES L. RIEHLE, TOM RIGGIO, WILLIAM J. ROBINSON, JAMES P. ROTCHFORD, CHARLES A. ROULT, JOE ROZIER, JOHN H. SCHAEFER. KENNETH SCHUSTER, ERIC SCOTT, PAUL SHEA, CLARE SHRIWISE, MATHEW SIEDLECKI, BEN SNflTH, MAURICE SMITH, DONALD J. SMYTH, RAYMOND J. SOBOTA, NLARTIN SODETZ, GERARD SPECHT, RAYMOND 
«
DERL, LAWRENCE STAN"rON, WALTER G. EINERT. A. STERKER, JIM STEVENSON, WLLIAM D. STOCKMAN, ROBERT STRODE, FR/VNK SULLIVAN, GENE E. SULLIVAN, BOB SURKAMP, JOHN TERRIO, LOUIS TRACY, BOB VIERHILE, JOSEPH VIGNOS, FR/\NK VITTORI, LEO VOGEL, PATRICK WEISHAPL, ROBERT WELCH, LEO WESLEY, JOSEPH WHITE, JOSEPH WILCOX, JOE WILLETT, BOB WILLIAMS, THOMAS W. ^VILLIAMS, 
JOSEPH WOERTH. FRANCIS AUTCN 

From the Alumni Oflicc: TJie '49 lO-Ycar Reunion was a roaring success, ^kinks to the brilliant efforts of the local cliair­man, CARLOS CORONA, to whom the assemblage owes a great vote of thanks. The M9crs had a huge delegation, but it was only a so-so turnout, p«r­ccntagcwisc, of the largest class Our Lady ever loosed on the world. The promotion was less than inspired, it's true, but the only effective publicity would seem to flow from the inspired enthusiasm of a few members anxious to prescr\"e Class pride and Class identity. A card or note to JOHNNY WALKER from you might strike the spark that kindles a spirit befitting the size of '49. 
More about Secretary Walker below. Mcamvhilc, bits of news from here and there continue to hint at the tremendous potential of the '49cr?, s^^nbo­
d by triple-threat (Iaw>-er-coach-stockbrokcr) 

* RRY BRENNAN. Back in June JAMES CHARLES CONLON 
picked up a Master of Education degree from Pcnn State U., majoring in physical science. 
In Mishawaka, Ind., the aforementioned CARLOS 

CORONA continues to train men in managing the 
production of the Benduc Talos missile with whicli 
the new Na\y cruisers arc being equipped. 
.A note from Milwaukee indicates that Coach 

BILL FISCHER has a winning team in business 
too, promoting sales for Chevrolet in the Milwaukee 
area, where he has settled with Roma and the fam­
ily. 
DR. STEPHEN J. GALLA has completed his 

postgraduate studies at Har\'ard Medical School and 
has been appointed senior instructor in anesthesiolo­
gy at Western Rcscr\c University Medical scliool 
and assistant visiting anesthesiologist at the Cleve­
land Metropolitan General Hospital. 
Toward the end of June JOHN F. LYNCH was 

appointed central regional sales manager for Olin 
Aluminum, responsible tor the Midwestern and 
Great Lakes states. John joined OUn Mathieson 
in 1937 as Chicago d'lstrict sales manager, coming 
from Kaiser .Aluminum. He rejoined the Marines 
for the Korean affair and attended Law School at 
the U. of Minnesota. 
Another sales man­ager continues Notre Dame's happy associa­tion with the Pang-born Corporation of Hagerstown, Md. (e.g. Paiigborn Hall on the West Quad). JAMES 
E. .MARTIN has bc^n made manager of the Cleveland district. Jim has spent 14 years with Pangborn, start­ing in the home oflicc before the Air Force 

and N. D. He spent some time as a sales engineer in Philadelphia before going to Cleveland and has served as assistant manager until the boost to dis­trict manager. 
FR.\NK P. NLANCINO of Trenton, N.J., got his law degree from Rutgers June 3, while architect ROBERT LESTER RALEY, studying at the Uni­versity of Delaware, got an M.A. in Early .•\meri­
can Culture June 14. 
When he's not entering golf tournaments RICH­ARD N. RILEY sells fancy horseless carriages to South Bend's carriage trade. Formerly a peddler of Buicks, Dick w*as recently appointed Lincoln and Lincoln Continental sales manager at Nye-Fulton Motors. A past president of the South Bend Golf /\ssn., lie's active in the K. of C , Sertoma Club and the St. Joe Valle\- N. D. Club. 
DAVID J. SMITH left New Jersey, now resides at S129/1 Waco St., San Diego 17, CaliL Dave began in May as an electronics engineer for the Con\*air Division of the General Dynamics Corpora­tion. 
Effective July 15 WILLIAM I. STR\*KER, M.D., was transferred to the Veterans Adminbtration Hospital, JclTcrson Barracks, Mo., as a staff psy­diiatrist. 
Formerly of the Bronx and the N. D. Graduate Scliool, Chaplain (.Major) .MAURICE L. SULLI­Vf\N was a\v*ardcd a certificate of achievement for three years' meritorious service at Camp Zama, Japan. Since 1945 (Pacific Theater) and his days under the Dome, Father Sulli\'an was in Heidel­berg, Germany, and instructing in chaplain school Stateside. 
Finally, news of JOHN ^VALKER's rise to \-ice­
prtsident of Chicago's Rocke, Rickcrd & Cleary, Inc., helps to explain hts being so bus>* recently. Congrats, John. 
1950 ^'^^'^^^ ^-^^° 
47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 
One can see the danger of setting a precedent. (.A 

precedent, as any mother can plainly tell you, is 
something you let get by once.) I timidly submitted 
ray first column in lieu of my spouse, \vith many 
explanations and apologies. Not being squelched 
immediately, I tendered a second one with less shy­
ness. Now, here I am, blatantly on my u-ay to 
becoming a permanent fixture, at least until the 
class has another reunion and elects a new secretary. 
However disillusion is beginning to set in and I 

am beginning to sec the seamy side of writtag a 
column for Notre Dame men. Since the last time 
I sal me down to the lypewxilcr I have received a 
grand total of one postcard, one letter, one baby 
announcement and a delightful letter from my old 
college pal who started me down this road in the 
first place. Not being a math major I can't come 
up witK any percentages but it would seem that 
New Rochelle has a much higher average than No­
tre Dame does concerning contributions to the 
ALUMNUS, at least as far as the Class of '50 is 
concerned. (If the needle has a point, let him who 
gets it, write!) 
The first and only letter received came from Mary 

MacDonald who married COLIN MacOONALD in 
1953. (.After all my efforts it hurt a little to r-ee 
the salutation "Dear Richard." She is the former 
ifar>' Nee of South Boston, Mass. Colin's room­
mate, JOE COLEMAN, of Esmond, R. I., was an 
usher at their wedding. Their first child, Mary 
Beth, was bom in 1954. 
Colin received his D.M.D. from Tufts University 

School of Dental Medicine nine days after the birth 
of Mary Beth. Since that time there has been 
added "another daughter, Debbie, and a son Colin.'* 
"After spending two years in the Navy, he began private dental practice in Duxbury, Mass., in 1956. 
"He often mentions fellows like JOE COLEMAN, BILL MCLAUGHLIN, BOB LUTHER, DON FREIBURGER, JOE BROWN, JACK ELLIOT, and JIM MAHONEY from ProWdence." 
If you hear from any of these fellows after this special mention, Colin, you might pass the infor­mation along to your secretary. Incidentally, the MacDonalds' address is Blodgett Ave., S. Duxbury, Mass. 
Got a nice postcard from DR. JOHN SCHI­RACK, *50 (alas! again addressed to "Dear Rich­ard") whose address is 1155 E. 3850th St., Ogden. Utah. 
John writes, *'Congratulations on a very fine col­umn in the March '59 Notre Dame ALU.MNUS. It u-as really quite newsy and interesting. Thought I would send along a bit about myself to help you fill one of the future columns. 
"I'm nQvv practicing medicine (specializing in anesthesia) in Ogden, Utah. Tlie family now in' eludes four daughters between ages 5 to V/z." 
Then there was an announcement from the THOMAS S. RIORDxXNS telling of the arrival of John Matthew on May I, 1959 who weighed in at 6 lbs., 5 oz. They have two other cherubs, Timmy, 4 years, and Sara Ann, 2. 
Tom is working with the Hays Manufacturing Co. in Erie. Their address is 518 Mar>'land Ave., Erie, Pa. 
That is about it. Not a very distinctive column, I admit. If things don't improve with the mail situ­ation, I shall be forced to collect tid-bits at my own class reunion Just to make copy. Come on guys, write even if you don't find work! 
NotTe Dame Alumnus^ September^ 1959 62 
From the Alumni Ofiicc: 
Ordained: RE\^ CARLOS F. LEVELING in tlic 
Diocese of Davenport, lou-a, June 6. (Please ex­
cuse the misspelling in the last issue. Father L.) 
Also, on June 13, Maryknoll's REV. DONALD 
LANSING, assigned to Huehuetcnango Department, 
Guatemala, which is two-thirds Indian. He can be 
readied c/o Padres de Mar\'knoIl, Apartado 5, 
Hucliuctenango, Guatemala, C. A. Father Don 
wrote: *'\Vc liavc 35 minor seminarians and one 
major seminarian so that there is some hope of de­
veloping an adequate clergy. With anticlerical gov­
ernments and a less severe form of the Indian ex­
termination policy whicli was almost completely 
"successful" in the U. S., it is not surprising that 
the Indians generally limit their Christianity to a 
desire for baptism ol their ciiildrcn and ihc cele­
bration of Holy Week and Fiestas." 
In Oberlin, O., Chief Probation Officer JOHN DIERNA Iiclps Oberlin College tlicology students train for social work in the Lorain County Juvenile Court. 
T. J. EGAN is Chicago district manager for U. S. Gypsum- Formerly St. Louis district manager, he has also worked for U.S.G. in Atlanta and Birm­ingham. 
JOHN C. McGRODER has been appointed senior brokerage consultant in Cleveland for Connecticut General Life, lives in Cleveland with his family, wife Gcorgiana, cliildrcn Karen, 7, and Patrick, 6. 
DANIEL MORGAN is now a Lt. Commander in the Na\y, commanding officer of the Naval Science Unit attached to the California Maritime Academy, Vallcjo, Calif. He and Nanc>-now have two little girls, age 3 and 1. 
LEROY PORTER, JR., account executive for Gardner Advertising, St. Louis, Mo., has picked up the Pet E\-aporated Milk account to add to Pet-Ritz Frozen Pies. He's put in some grad scliool time at St. Louis U. 
BOB RUETZ is acting head of the Benedictine Heights (Tulsa) music department while the boss takes a sabbatical. 
^OCl Robert J. Klingcnbcrger 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. ^Vaj-ne, Ind. 
From the Alumni Office: 
FR. JAMES I. BIRKLEY, CPP^. . director of Ilie St. Joseph College Calumet Center, Hammond, Ind., since he got his master's, has resigned for an unannounced assignment. Under his direction the extension center has doubled its curriculum and quadrupled enrollment. . . . REV. MICHAEL J. BRANSFIELD, M.M., was ordained June 13 and assigned to Korea. . . . BOB CULLIG/\N, son of the late DR. JOHN M. CULLIGxVN, former Min­nesota governor for the N. D. Foundation, is work­ing for Minnesota Mining and Mfg. Co., designs the covers for S-M's magnetic. tape, and posed as conductor of tlic orcliestra for the photo on a cur­rent package. His brother John, *46, is a Min­neapolis sm-gcon, and he has two more N. D. brothers, Dave, who attended in '51, and Frank, still in scliooL . . .DICK DE GRAFF took a leave from his teaching duties at St. Mary's College to complete his doctoral work on an assistant graduate fellowship at Indiana U., where Dick also took Ins master's. . . . More academic notes: to ROBERT 
P. McGRATH, Highland Park, N. J., an M.B.A. from Rutgers, and to JOHN P. DONEY, Buriing­amc, Calif., an M.A. from Trimly College, Hart­ford, Conn. . . . BILL GREIF, back from repre­senting his Vandcrbur^i county in the Indiana General Assembly, has been appointed executive di­rector of tlic Foundation for Ex-ansvillc's Future, Inc. Bill sa\-s: "Our Foundation will attempt to coordinate all ciric and governmental activities to­ward one goal — making this community a better place in which lo live and work,.thereby attracting future business and industry," . . . ROBERT L. JOLIET was elected \-ice-prcsident last January of the Hartcr Band & Trust Co., Canton, O., Stark County's largest bank, with assets of $70 million. Bob joined the bank as an assistant trust officer in 1957. Bob and Peg are even more proud of Robert L., Jr., bom Nov. 12, 1958, their first cliild. , . . 
E. V. "TED" O'MALLEY is the youngest director on the Phoenix, .\riz.. United Fund. Since 1956 Ted has been a pioneer *'loancd executive," leaving his building materials business Cor eight weeks* full-time volunteer effort on drives. Tabbed as a future general chairman, he's also on the board of the Boy Scouts and a scliool for handicapped cliildren, an avid Kiwanian, a director of the Arizona Club. Ted and wife Jane have four cliildrcn. . . . Th*e wedding of ALLAN J. "BUDDY" POW'ERS and Marilyn Dolores "Lyn" Friel on campus in June 
LOUIS F. DiGIOVANNI, '49 At Bcanto%\-n U., a Legal Eagle 
Lou DiGiox-anni has had a big year. Making his debut as an author, Lou was also recently appointed assistant professor of law at Boston University. Senior partner of the firm of DiGiovanni & Everburg, Cambridge, Mass., he has been teaching law since 1953. 
A native of Belmont, Mass., Lou at­tended grammar and high schools there be­fore the outbreak of W.W. II, in which he served three years with the U.S. Air Force as a first lieutenant and was awarded the Air Medal with five oak leaf clusters. At Notre Dame he obtained a Ph.B. in the Col­lege of Commerce, followed by an LL.B. in 1950. Then, returning home to set up law practice, he received an LL.M. from Bos­ton U. 
Lou recently completed a textbook en­titled "Fundamentals of Business Law" for publication this year. He is a member of the Massachusetts and Federal Bar Associa­tions, the board of directors of the Boston University Credit Union, the board of gov­ernment of the Catholic Sodality, the Cam­bridge Lions Club, the University Club of Boston and the Curriculum Committee of Boston U, He is especially active as a mem­ber of the Notre Dame Club of Boston, for which he has ser\'cd as a vice-president and a director. In the limited free time avail­able to him he enjoys golf and swimming. 
A friend had this to say about Lou: "Nothing I could write would tell the real story- of his humility, quiet manner and de­votion to duty. He possesses that unique, unrelenting faith in God .. . so often lacking. . . ." 
In August, 1955, Lou married Miss Mary Quecny. Residing in St. Paul's Parish, Wel­lesley, Mass., the DIGiovannis now have three children, Thomas, 3 years; Gemma, 2, and Stephen, 1. 
was one of the events of the decade. The Powers nuptials had an all-N. D. cast, including the bride's father, *29, her uncle and godfather, *29. Amonju the Irish male attendants were Bud's brothers, To^ f and John, '55, and TO.M GVRROLL. . . . PAT­RICK J. PURDY has joined a couple of other Germans in a law partnership, Tracy, Tracy & 
Purdy in Franklin and West CarroUton, Ohio. 
I OCO Harry L. Buch ^ * Board of Trade Bldg. Wheeling, W. Va. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Joining a select brotlierhood whicli has included quite a few N. D. men Is WILLIAM H. DEMP­SEY, JR., of New Ulm, Minn. Bill has been ap­pointed cliicf clerk to Chief Justice Earl Warro^ of the United States Supreme Court (and an lioET orar>' alumnus of N- D.). An honor grad, Bill took his law at Yale, where he was editor of the Yale Law Review. He ser\'ed a year as clerk to a local circuit court before enlisting in the army and has been a first lieutenant in the Judge Advocate's office, Washington, D.C, 
Another new lawyer is REGIS D. MORRIN of Gil E. Brady St., Butler, Pa., who received his 
LL.B. from Harvard University at Its SUtli Com­mencement June 12. 
ROBERT T. PELLER has moved to new dig­gings in St. Paul, Minn. He now lives at .2016 Inglchart Ave., St. Paul 4. Bob has a second son now and seems to consider It, If anything, an omeii of good that Thomas Patrick was bom on Frid^r the 13th of March. 
ANTHONY C. RICCIO, who took his M.A. with the Class, has been taking further graduate study at Ohio State Uni\'ersity, Columbus. He received a Ph.D. at the spring quarter commencement June 11. 
1 9B2 Thomas W. Reedy '^^^ 337 Wagner Rd. Northficld, HI. 
From the Alumni Office: More honors for a Graduate ScIiool member of the Class of *53: DR. PANOS D, BARDIS, associ­ate professor of sociology and acting chmrman >r the department at Albion College, Albion, Mich'., has completed an international sur\'e>* of attitudes toward the family whlcIi has been accepted for pub­lication. Recently he was appointed editor of Social Science and accepted for inclusion in "Wio's "Who in American Education." He has also accepted an appointment witli the University of Toledo, where he will teacli \'arious sociology' courses. LOUIS N. aWANAUGH, JR., Erie, Pa., got his LL.B. from Har\'ard in June commencement exercises. THOMAS E. DOHERT\', formerly of Indiana Bell, has become a member of the development engineering group of the commercial staH" section, operations department of American Telephone JJL Telegraph. In the Indiana business office he's be?^ a stafT supervisor, office manager and manager. At last report he was looking for a Ne%v Jersey home (preferably near a golf course) for his wife and two daughters, DENNIS J, HAUGH of Indianapolis won second prize in the Nathan Burkan memorial competition (sponsored by ASCAP in memory of fts first gen­eral counsel) at the University of Louisville School of Law, with a paper on patent law entitled "Re­lation between Author and Publisher." When ^\1LLL\.M D, SANTORO was graduated from the University of Ottawa School of Medicine June 7 he was upholding a family tradition. His mother is Dr. Florence Sanloro. £7 
1 ORA George A. Pflaum, Jr. I 7;j-» j^Q- Har^-ard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
Reunion Registrants CHARLES ALLEN, HERBERT AMMERMUI^ LER. RICHARD *\N'TON, JOSEPH BANDIERA, LcROY BAZ.VN'Y, MILTON J. BE.\UDINE, DONALD W. BEBENEK, DONALD BEDEL, EMIL BERG, JAMES BERNHART, DAVID BICKEL, JAMES BLEYER, BOB BLOOM, GEORGE W. BOEH.M, JIM BOESEN, PHIL BOLIN, JAMES BOULEY, HUGH BRAY. PH^^ BREHM, MARVIN BREZETTE, EDWAKU BROWN, PETE BUCHEIT, JOHN J. BUNDS­CHUH, WILLIAM L. BURKE, ROBERT N. BURNS, MONSIGNOR OSMUNDO CALIP, 

62 Notre Dame Alumnus^ September, 1959 
JAMES CANNON, RICHARD CASTELLINI, The restdts of • the election of the Class ofiBcers 
\V1LLIAM F. CAVANAGH, BERNARD CONNOR, for the next five years are as follows: President,  CORCORAN, GEORGE CRAINE, ROLAND Jim Harrington; Vice-President, Pat Carrico; Treas­
«
I IGNAULT, WILLIAM J. DALY, JOSEPH urer, Tom Nolan; and Secretary, George A- Pflaujn; D'ANTONI, JOHN L. DARAGO, FRANCIS M. Jr. 
DEAN, JIM DeCOURSEY, ARNOLD DeMARCO, JOHN DILLON, JOSEPH F. DOOLEY, LEONARD DURY, WALT DUSCHKA, JOHN DWYER, RICHARD EHR, ROBERT ETTEL­BRICK, JAMES EWALD, EDWARD J. EWING, WILLIAM J. FAIMON, WILLIAM FARMER, ROBERT A. FARNBAUCH, CHARLES FICK, 
F. FITZPATRICK, DAVID FOY, RICHARD GERBRACHT, JIM GIBBS, JOHN GUSGOW, ROBERT GREENE, EDWARD GRIFFIN, JOHN GRINDEL, BENEDICT E. GRYLEWICZ, WILLIAM GUILFOILE, ARTHUR B. HAESCHE, ^MLLIAM HAMEL, RICHARD HAMMER, JOE 
t
RRlS, JIM HE,\RONS, EUGENE HENRY, 
I HIGGINS, PAUL HIGGINS, GERALD F. 

HORTOX, ROBERT J. HOWARD, GENE HOW­
LEY, GEORGE HUBBARD, RICHARD HULL, 
ROBERT A. INEICH, MEL JIGANTI, ROY 
JOHNS, JOSEPH B. JOYCE, JAMES KALO, 
DICK KELCH, PAUL KELLEY, PAUL F. KEL-­
LEY, JOHN E. KELSCH, GEORGE KOCH, 
PAUL M. KR,\US, RAYMOND KREBER, 
ROBERT KROP, RAYMOND KUROWSKI, JIM 
luVNTIS, RICHARD LOEFFLER, PHIL LO­
PRESTI, WILLIAM A. LOY, JAMES McCOMB, 
THOMAS McDERMOTT, JOSEPH McGLVN, 
JOHN McGR<\W, TOM McHUGH, DONALD 
McL,\UGHLIN, RICHARD F. McNAMARA, 
«
MES MacINNIS, JOE MADIGAN, JOHN B. 
VGILL, JOHN MALFA, JOSEPH T. MA­

LONEY, ,«STHOSY MANDOLINI, FRED 
MANGIALARDI, ROMANO MAZZOLI, KEN 
MELCHIOR, JOE MESEC, WLLIAM MEYER, 
LEO MICHUDA, BOB MIHLBAUGH, THOMAS 
MOORE, W. J. MORLEY, DAN MOTZ, JOSEPH 
MUHLHERR, JIM MULLANE, THOMAS J. 
MURPHY, THOMAS P. MURPHY, JAMES 
MURRAY, JOHN B. NAGILL, ROBERT NANO­
VIC, JOHN NASHERT, THOMAS NESSINGER, 
MICHAEL NEVILLE, DAVID E. NOL,\N, JAKE 
NOONAN, WILLIAM NOONAN, GERALD E. 
O'CONNOR. WILLIAM OFFUTT, JAMES O'­
MALLEY, JAMES O'NEILL, ART PASKALIS, 
BOB PATTERSON, TON^Y PERRY, ARTHUR 
«
PERSON. ALEXANDER A. PETRILLO, ORGE PFLAUM, RICHARD PILGER, JOHN F. PITTAS, MAX PLANTE, ROBERT D. PODEN. JOSEPH QUAIN, FRANK RAITH, ROBERT RAY.MOND, JOHN REIDY, JOHN W. REUBA, WILLIAM REYNOLDS, WILLIAM RICHARD, JIM RICHARDS, ROBERT L. RILEY, RICHARD ROBISON, DICK ROSENTHAL. JACK ROS­SHIRT, RICHARD RYAL, THOMAS RYDER. JOHN SAND, BARRY SAVAGE, LAWRENCE SAXE. MIKE S&\NLON, JOHN J. SCHLEGEL, JOHN SCHLOEGEL, WALTER SCHNEIDER, JOHN SHEEDY, TOM SHORT, JOHN SMITH. JOE SPRINGER, WALLY STAUDER, JOHN SULLIVAN, RICHARD SULLIVAN. WILLIAM SULLIVAN, EDWARD J. SWEENEY. JOHN f
.'IFT, CONRi\D SZUBERT, PAUL TIERNEY. 
lARLES R. TILLEY, JOHN TRUCANO, ED 

TRUSEL,\, MARTIN TUCH, P. L. VAN HUF­
FEL, RONALD VARDIMAN, MARTIN VIETH, 
CHARLES G. WAGNER. WALTER WAGNER, 
PHILIP WALKER, ROBERT WESTRICK, 
D.ANIEL WHALEN, KENNETH WOODFORD. 
BILL WOODWARD, BOB WRIGHT, JOHN 
YOUNG, JOSEPH ZIEMBA 
Those that missed tlie reunion should make a 

firm resolution nou- to be on hand in 19&1. Our 
class turnout totaled 18S thoroughly happy, in­
formed, and exhausted men by Sunday afternoon. 
They all held one thought in common, however, 
l that was that the reunion week end was the 

* t week end that they had spent in many years. 
.\t this u*riting some of the activities arc still a bit vague to the author and I must, confess that I . didn't take copious notes .as a'good class secretary should have. From the picture that appears in this magazine you can easily recognize who was in at­tendance. In some cases you may have to \-isuaHy subtract 30 pounds or so and add a few patches of hair to individuals under study before you can tell who they actually are. 
t
Our combined dinner with the Class of '-19 on the courtyard of Alumni Hall was a huge success and if I recall correctly, the last diner left the area about 4 a.m. Saturday morning. Most registrants were up bright (?) and early for the reunion Mass braled by FATHER TOM CADY. Golf, tours, fests and headache remedies occupied a good part of Saturday. One of the features of the early afternoon was a Softball game during which our Class members thoroughly trounced the elder gentle-
DENVER — Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., prcsitlent of the University, presents the Denver N.D. Club's annual scholarship to 1959 winner Eugene Blish, son of club member Eugene Blish, Sr. 
men of the Class of '49. The 30-run handicap that we offered them in the first inning in deference to age was erased before they had retired our second man in the first inning. 
Ci>cklails preceded a very pleasant Alumni ban­quet in the new dining hall on Saturday evening. FATHER HESBURGH's address was worth coming to the reunion fur and I hope that the Alumni As­sociation makes an edort to provide every member with a copy or a summary of it. We also enjoyed meeting COACH KUHARICH and the other mem­bers of the football department. Equally enjoyable was the presentation of golf trophies for the Alumni tournament in which the Class \«'as well represented. 
Saturday night after the dinner found the hilarity continuing at the same rapid pace. Sunday morn­ing activities were brought to a fitting close with a Memorial Mass at the Grotto. 
I tliink sincere thanks should be publicly expressed to CONNIE SZUBERT and his local committee for all their hard efforts in organizing our Class re­union program. They left no stone unturned and covered all details up to and nicluding the weather, which was perfect throughout the week cud. At the same time we extend our thanks to Father Cady for the major part that he played in the reunion and to the /Vlumni /\s50ciation for the expert way that the whole week end was conducted. 
This correspondent adds to the invitation of the other 187 registrants to all of you that were unable to make it to be with us in five years. I am con­vinced that everyone had such a good time that formal resolutions were made by everyone there to be back again in '&}. 
ERIE — Man-of-the-Year Joseph Barber (center) receives his award scroll from Club President John McCormick (left) and 
N.D. Alumni Secretary James Armstrong, speaker for Erie Club's U.N.D. Night. 
As you can sec from the last entry on the above listing, you will be exposed to my ramblings for another five years. However, you arc to be re­minded that this rambling can only continue if you supply me \%'!th the necessary information. Let me hear from you. 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
ROBERT L. McGLYNX recently became admin­

istrator of Memorial Hospital, Pullman, Wash. Bob, 
his wife and their three youngsters attended the 
summer outing of the Notre Dame Club of Spo­
kane and met the other Xotre Darners in that part 
of the countr>'. 
Cage ace DICK ROSENTHAL, now assistant 

vice-president of Indiana Bank & Trust Co., Fort 
Wayne, gave tlie annual inspirational address at the 
N. I>. Senior Dinner, given by the Alumni office back in May. Dick u-as all the more inspired be­cause of his brand new son', John ^VillJam, bom April 29. 
JOHN F. SEXTON of Minneapolis, Minri., re­ceived an M.B.A. from Harvard University in June. 
E. I. du Pont dc Nemours & Co. has assigned 

H. GERARD TRAVIS as sales representative in the Seattle (Wash.) district for the Petroleum Chenucals Dt^-ision. Gerry, a West Point transfer, has been with Du Pont since graduation except for a couple years recall as a lieutenant in the Air Force. 
19S S Thomas F. O'Afalley 
• '*'• ' 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Mo. 
Reunion Registrant ROBERT MILLER 

Each column it grows more difficult to report die 
deaths of our classmates and it is with the deepest 
regret that I tell you of the death of BILL BYRNE. 
He was killed in the crash of a military aircraft 
at the Glenvicw Nav-al Air Station, 111., in the lat­
ter part of May, I'm certain that I can assure 
Bill's wife and parents that he will be remembered 
in the prayers of those who were fortunate enough 
to have known him and those who ne^'er had the 
opportunity. He'll be missed. 
I had the pleasure of hearing from many long^ 
lost grads this time and I must say that it was quite 
an experience. It was good to hear that you're all 
so prosperous so instead of hoarding the news, I'll 
pass it along. Just a short reminder before I do. 
The class reunion comes up In June of '60 and it's 
closer than you think. Start making plans now be­
cause Vm. sure that it's going to be a time that 
you won't want to miss. 
HARRY EDELSTEIN has always been one of 
the regular contributors to the column and this time 
was no exception. Harry is working for M., L., P., 
F., and Smith in Minneapolis and says that the 
business of stocks and bonds has been good to him. 
He and his wife have a daughter named Julie Marie. 
The news to follow is from Harry's letter. EM­
MET ROOT is living in Omaha with his wife and 
son and is keeping active in the Root Furniture 
Co. JIM IRWIN is attending law school at the 
University of Cindnnaii. RON SMITH married the 
former Miss Mary Kay Joyce in June and is work­
ing for a law firm in St. Paul. Congratulations and 
best wishes to them both. 
While on his way to Colorado for a week end on the ski slopes, JOHN WEITHERS stopped in Kan­sas City long enough to say hello. He's working for the Midwest Stock Exchange in Chicago. Judg­ing from the list of names and ne\\3 that John sent me, he's running his own information bureau. ^Vrite again soon. Score, and I only hope that the typewriter ribbon lasts long enough to report the following news that you relayed. TOM ARM­STRONG and his wife, >rar>- Ellen, report the birth of a daughter. Congratulations. PHIL SHER­IDAN still longs for the Navy life of old but is-enjoying law school. He ^vorks for the City of Chi­cago part time. DAN SHANNON ts working for his father's accounting firm and has become a ccm­firmed family man with his wttc, two daughten> and his son. TOM CAREY is working wth his father's law firm after baring passed the bar exam. Tom is still coaching at ^ft. Carmel High School. JERRY ROE is liWng in the Washington, D.C.,. area with his wife Maril>-n and is w*orking for Lit­ton Industries. TOM DRISCOLL is \%-orking for » brokerage firm in Chicago and he and his wife plan to move into a new home in the new future. JIM 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 63 
XIALOOLY is managing a real estate firm on Chi­<3igo's south side. BERXIE SMYTH, wife and fam­ily. Just arrived back in Chicago where he is work­ing for the government. Real estate seems to have a certain lure that JERRY PRASSAS couldn't es­
•capc
 either and he*s working in the management «id. DOX FREUXD was recently released from the Xav>* and is working for a public accounting Jirm in Chicago. PAUL PFOHL is working for Reynolds and Co. security house and brings home the bacon to his ^vifc and three cliildren. TED BIXTZ and his wife have two children and are living in Inkster, Mich. Ted is working for the 

J.
 L. Hudson Co. in Detroit. Xecd a loan? Just say tlie word and JACK FL\'XX can set you up 

•with
 the Household Finance Corp. where he works in Cliicago. He and his wife Iiavc two daughters -and live in Glcnview, III. JIM GRIFFIN is work­ing in the trust department of the Continental Il­linois Xational Bank and is li\-ing in Chicago with his wife and two children. Tlie stock market seems to have cornered quite a few grads and BILL KILLBURG is counted among their number. He works for ^^cDonnelI and Co. in Chicago. RICH McDOXALD is serving some time with the Army hut passed his bar exam before going in. JOE KEARXEY was released from the Xavy in Decem­ber and is working with his father's heating com­pany in Ex-anston, III. DOX DUFFY married the former Miss Dorothy Gillespie of Rye, N.Y., on August 15. Congratulations and best wishes to them both. STEVE REBORA and his wife, Joyce, are also making their home in Chicago and are the beaming parents of a daughter bom last April. Steve is working with a rug and carpet company. "The Pause that Refreshes" is a thing dear to PAT McXAMARA's heart and he and his wife, Carolyn, have developed a taste for Coca-Cola. Pat works for them in E\-anston, III. MARTY CULHANE is working as a claim adjuster for the Aetna Casu­alty & Surety Co. in Chicago. Marty and his wife have two sons, ^fa^tin and John. GERRY HILLS­ItL\X, his wife and two daughters, are living in E\*anston, 111., while he works for an accounting firm in Chicago. JACK PIXTER and his wife have added a daughter to the family and Jack is work­ing for a dicraical company. DICK COOK and his wife have a young newborn by the name of Peter, and Dick is working as assistant advertising man­ager for the Steincr Co. in Detroit- MIKE KELLY is working for Gustafson Oil Co. in, where else, Chicago. Mike will marry Miss Trudy Short in September. Congratulations and best wishes are in order. TOM HAYES is working with a commer­cial paper concern and lives with his wife and son in La Grange, 111. — If by this time you've for­gotten the author of the above news, it's no 'xt'on­der since this is one of the best and most informa­tive efforts that I've received yet. Thanks again, JOHX \VXITHERS and if you can see your way dear I'd like to have one of those about every six months. 

A welcome note arrived from DICK DONAHUE 

•who
 is now enjoying tlie rigors of Xorthwestern Law School. Dick mentions seeing JIM BERG­QUIST who is doing graduate work in English at Northwestem's Ex'anston campus. 


ED SHICKLER had much news to pass on about the classmates and a \'er\' important news item of his own in the form of their first son, ^fark Edward. He was bom on May 1 and Ed and his wife Marilyn seem just a little bit happy about the whole thing. Congratulations arc certainly In order. Ed is working as a mechanical design en­gineer on electronic equipment at Strombcrg-Carlsoti Division of General D>-namics, Roclicsicr, X.Y. Tlie nci^-s to follow is from his letter. DOX BURK­HART will be leaving the Xavy and the U.S.S. Greenfish at Pearl Harbor late this month. This September he plans to attend M.I.T. and work for his Master's in Xuclear Engineering. ED DEMP­SEY married the former Miss Elizabeth Murphy last April. Tlie ceremony was held in Rochester. Here's wishing the best to both of them. JOHX CASEY is living in Rochester with his wife, Mar>', and daughter. He's in a managerial training program with Lincoln-Rochester Trust Co. In closing, Ed Shicklcr mentions that he would like to hear from JIM HESBURGH, JOHX O'.MEARA, J.\CK KURTZ, GEXE SCH.MIT, and TOM POZZI. His address is 215 Meadow Lane, Webster, X^.Y. 
Great news from out Stockton, Calif,, wav from HAL WILLENBORG and his wife Mzuy. Checking in at 7 lbs., 10 oz., was Monica Juditli bom on the 4tli of June. Hal is making the Xa\*y a per­manent thing and is stationed at the Naval Supply Depot in Stockton. Congratulations, you three, and I have to admit that the little one couldn't have picked better people to liave around if she had tried. 
64-Notre Dame Alumnus^ September^ 1959 
JOE S.MITH married the former Miss Mary Car-
olj-n Weil on June 27 in Port Huron, Mich. Again, 
congratulations and best wishes. 
JOHN HOSINSKI dropped a card to tell me of 
hb marriage to the former Miss Marj' Ellen Bolfe 
on the 6th of June. Tlie wedding took place in 
West Palm Beach, Fla. Again,' a round of con­
gratualtions and best wishes. John is currently 
Athletic Director and head football coach at St. 
Ann's High School in West Palm Beach. 
Much newborn news this time and DON WTL­
LLVMS and his wife Joan have joined the club. 
Dawn Francine Williams arrived safely on the 10th 
of April and I'm sure there was much joy and jubi­
lation in the Boulder Creek, Calif., area. Con­
gratulations Don and Joan and I appreciate your 
dropping me a card. 

I don't know- what happened to my letter filing system but I've turned up with a Christmas card from HUGH SCHAEFER- Not wanting you to think that you've been overlooked, Hugh, I had better mention that you've clianged jobs and are now employed with the Sunray Mid-Continent Oil Co. and still living in Tulsa. Your ears should have been burning the other night, old buddy, be­cause ROY BELKNAP, his wife Maureen, and I were remembering some of the old times and the episode of your svrimming trunks came to mind. You of course remember the unfortunate situation at the Indiana Dunes during Senior Prom weekend. They just don't make trunks like they used to. By the vvay, Roy and his wife were \isiting in Kansas City over the July 4th weekend and I had dinner with them at Maureen's parents' home. Wc had a ver>' enjoyable time and I ended up a $5,000 loser in a fast-moving game of Monopoly. Roy and his family, a son and a daughter included, live in Glcnview, 111., which is a suburb of Morton Grove. 
JIM RILEY from Muskegon, Mich., has become a regular contributor to the column and it was good to hear from him again. Jim is living in Milwaukee and seems to be enjoying the city of beer and Braves. I'd like to hear from you as often as possible, Jim, so drop a line the next time you get a chance. DAVE METZ did his usual good job of cliecking in but with one major change. Tliis time the letter was written on civilian sta­tionery. Dave had been stationed with the Navy in Alameda, Calif., for the last year and he and his wife, Sandy, were getting a little anxious to put the uniforms in mothballs. He was released from the ser\ice on March 17 and then traveled East to take a job with the Eastman Kodak Co. in Rocticstcr, X^.Y. Dave is now in the training program concentrating on Public Relations and Ad­vertising. He mentions seeing JIM PORCARI in Rochester and Jim and Dave are wondering about JIM LUOTTO, who seems to have dropped out of si^it. If you get the message, Jim, they would like to hear from you at Dave's address, 142 West­minster Road, Rochester. 
A signal reached me from high atop the life­guards' station in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. \Vhen de­coded I found that it was from JOHN CON­NAUGHTON who is spending the summer working for tlie Beach Patrol there. He was released from the Marine Corps in February and plans to attend Cornell Medical Scliool in September. Tlie news to follow is from John's letter. ED KELLY is still serving with the Navy and when last heard from. 
NAUGATUCK VALLEY —On Universal Notre Dame Night (from left) Past Presi­dent Bill Dwyer, '55, received a Man-of­the-Ycar award, and Dr. Edmund Burke of Yale University was guest speaker. Presi­dent-elect Alfred Sullivan, '52, made the presentation. 
he was in Santiago, Chile. He plans to return to Norfolk, Va., soon. BOB RUSSELL is working with the X'avv' and is stationed aboard the U.S.S. Shanr gri-la operating off the coast of California. J'A has also made several .trips to Japan. FRAS*K LUNDY had many things to report in his letter while doing a good job on bringing me up to date on a few more of the wanderers from '55. Frank spent some time with the Army and now is in the steel building and general contracting business in ^Villiatnsport, Pa. He married the former Carolyn Miller and in his letter he mentioned that they are waiting for a young one that's due any time now. Frank filled me in v^ith the news to follow. FRED ;VHITFIELD is still studying medicine at Georgetown. TOM HARTZELL was married re­cently but we're waiting for names and places. JIM GIBBONS married the former ^fiss Rita Ann Dugan last spring and is working for Equitable Life ^ Dallas. ^ 
Once again, PAUL FULLMER comes through when news is needed the most. He practically in­cluded a complete class column and I can't think of too many people that he left out. However, if your name isn't mentioned, drop me a line and I'll try to include it in the next column. Paul himself is still in Public Relations work and like myself is one of the few holdouts against the onslaughts of married bliss. Apparently our da>*s are numbered, Paul, since even the smart money seems to be doing it. Tidbits to follow are pulled, almost word for word, from Paul's letter. DICK BEE.MAN and his wife Sue now have three children and are living in Oak Park, 111. Dick recently joined WBBM, CBS .T^ filiate in Chicago, as a time salesman. JERKS BR/VNSFIELD is attending Loyola Law School while TOM IGLESKI is working for his law degree at DePaul. Tom works for Continental Casualty dur­ing the day and attends school at night. JIM CUR­TIN is working for ^Vcstera Electric. TIM DEVE­REUX recently went with Victor Adding Machine Co. as Public Relations Director. NEAL HALLO­RAN is an agent with the Allstate Insurance Co. MIKE \VARD, his wife Harriet, and tvra children are living in Lombard, a suburb of Chicago. Mike is a reporter for a tri-weekly paper in LaGrange. DAVE COHEN is still with the Fides Press as sales promotion manager and has moved back to South Bend with his wife and youngster. FRANK MAIER is sports editor for the paper in Elgin, UV CHUCK COLLINS just finished Iiis first year W law school. JACK GITS is working for the Gits Moulding Corp. and any similarity between the names is purely intentional. TOM DORWIN is living in Milwaukee where he is in the advcrtbing department of Evinrude Motors. JOHN BENDEL is an NROT C instructor at Marquette University. John was married on Easter Monday to a lass named Eileen. FRANK NEWALVN is teadiing English at Northwestern University. At last report, JOHN SLAVICK was a reporter for one of the Cleveland papers. CARROLL DOWT)EN is married and is working as a reporter on the Louisville Courier. GEORGE RIORDAN is in the traffic department of Brach's Candy Co. ED FOX is finishing up a six-month stay witli Uncle Sam. ^ 
A long awaited note from TIM SHEA arrivcu the other day and he's in fine fettle. "Hm is living in Washington, D.C., and works for tlic Mosler Safe Co. He's attending law school in the eve­nings at George Washington University and should get his degree sometime soon. Tim says that BILL BURNETT just moved into a new home in \'ir­ginia. He and his wife are looking forward to their third soon. 
ED CZUPPA is keeping busy in Milwaukee where he is coaching and teaching at Marquette Univer­sity High School. 
NORM HIPSKIND married the former Miss Ju­liannc Suelzcr on the 11th of .-Vpril in Fort Way ^ Ind. Congratulations and best wishes to them bom. Norm and his wife will be living in Hawaii where he is stationed with the Air Force at Hickam Field. DAN SULLIVAX writes that he is about to com­plete his graduate work in Philosophy at St. Louis University. He then plans to take his wife and family to Paris where he will study for a degree in Theolog>'. 
JOE TOXINI and his wife, Ailecn, arc doing their part to fill the N. D. classrooms of the future as they added Alan Joseph to the enrollment on January* 14. He weighed in at 7 lbs. I oz. Con­gratulations. Joe is with the Micro Switch Division of Minneapolis Honc\'welI in Frecport, 111. 
Received a note from another Missourian ^ ^ BOB .McAULIFFE filled me in with some ncws ^ grads from tlic St. Louis area. Bob is working with the accounting firm of Peat, Marwick, and Mitcliell and has been with them since he was dts­charged from the Army. He and his wife became parents of a boy t>'pe child in February and Bob saj-s that he keeps them pretty bus>-. They named 
^km Robert Emmett. Congralulattons. Bob passed on the news to follow*-. DICK HUGHES is attend­ing St. Louis University I^w School. BOB BAU­DEXDISTEL has been working with his father in the construction business. DICK BOLAND is also in accounting and works for the firm in Touche, Nivcn, Bailey, and Smart. CHARLEY POLLNOW is working for a chemical firm while JOE Mc-GLYNN does a little legal work with tlic Circuit Attorney's office. PAUL NEWMAN is working for an investment firm in Portland, Ore. Maybe if we clicckcd with Paul we could put some of that extra money to work. Dig up the can in the backyard, bo>-s. 
It was good to hear from JACK REED again ^c d he's quite happy about the prospects of receiv­^9s his >[.B.A. from the University of Michigan 
Business ScIiooL Jack had started on his degree and then had to spend some time with Uncle. /Vfter graduation, he plans to go with the National Cash Register Co. and work out of their Chicago office. What follows is from Jack's letter. JERRY BURNS and BILL ARNOLD are also attending business school with Jack, and Bill is married to a girl from Washington State whom he met on the coast when he was stationed there with the Na\y. JOE CONNOLLY is back home in Cleveland after spending three years with the Army in Ethiopia. 
FRANK LYNCH enclosed a picture of a boat that he uses while living in a home on Malibu Beach, Calif, and it was enough to make a young 
^wi's fancy turn to ever>-thing but business. Frank works for the Douglas Aircraft Co. in Santa Monica and has been with them for the last three years. He joined them after doing a year of graduate work at Cornell University. Frank mentions that DICK aVPKA and BOB GERVAIS are also work­ing for Douglas and that Bob and his wife were expecting another Ger^-ais verj' soon. 
Did you think I was going to forget? ... . WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO — JOE BAUM, BOB KUNZE, JOHN HARTIGAN, BOB SWINDE­MAN, CHARLIE MORGxVN, FR.\NK PATTEE, JIM IRWIN, DAVE SCHEELE, O^VES SODETZ, JOHN HERDER, JIM HOFFA, BILL STAHL, ED LIEVENS, LOU 2EFRAN, HOWIE HART. TUCK McCOY, TONY PUCILLO, and JOHN 01SSO. 
From the Alumni Office: 

LEO McEVOY, frosh track coach at Columbia since '5G, has been appointed head coach at St. Leo's College, Florida. WALTER C. CLE.MEN'TS, JR., has studied in Vienna and California; taken Russian at Middlcbury College, Vermont; gone to the U.S.S.R. to Study at Moscow and Lenin­grad; won a Ford Foundation fellowship for fur­ther studies on Russia at Columbia U. . . . JOHN 
M. HARTIG.AN is a law associate in Morgan, Hal­ligan & Lanoff, Chicago. . . . DONALD E. LrVNS-PA got an M.B.A. from the Univcrsitv of Denver. Ne\v .M.D.'s: DR. FORSTTE BROW.N*. Louisville, cum laudc from Har\^rd; DR. THEODORE 
M
UGHLIN, a Bliimberg and Lederlc fellovv, to . .ern in Atlanta, Ga. (his wife ^tarjo^tc got an M.D. too) from Georgetown, whicli also graduated DR. ANTHONY J. Mia\L E (interning in Newark, N.J.), DR. RICHARD P. MILLER (New York, N.Y.), DR. KEVIN T. O'DONNELL (Detroit) and, with numerous honors, DR. JOSEPH P. SWIFT, who will stay in Washington with bis wife Mar>' and intern at the University hospital; from Pcnn, DR. JOHN S. O'BRIEN (inicrning in Hart­ford, Conn., and engaged to niarrv* Miss Barbara Hendricks, N.Y.C., Aug. 29); also from Penn, DR. STEPHEN J. PREVOZNIK, interning near Philly and returning to the University hospital for anesthe­siology residency, expecting a third little Prevoznik ^September); and DR. JERE £. FRIEDHEIM, from the Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola Uni­versity, Chicago. . . . EDWARD G. TOOMEY was another adx-anced decree recipient at George­town. . . . Somehow the news got misplaced about the son, Michael Tcrrcnce, born last Nov. 4 to Mr. and -Mrs. T. N. PATTON, JR., in AVashinglon, D.C. WILL/\RD BRIEN, '29, is the grandfather. . . . REV. PAULINUS K. SUN, one of many Chi­nese priests exiled from their homeland, is corre­sponding secretar>' for an international appeal. Union of Prayers for the Persecuted Catholics in China, led by Cardinal nc n of Peiping and Arclibishop Vupin of Nanking. The Union, supported by Pope John and the Late Pius XII, seeks world-wide prayer acainst the possibility of imminent full-scale schism ^th e Chinese, Churcli. Father Sun would like to enroll his classmates and all N.D. men and their families in the Union, the only requirement being recitation of a short prayer on a card whicli c:an 
Smiling at a sally in the acceptance speech of Lactare Medalist Robert D. Murphy (extreme right), LL.D. '58, now U. S. under secretary of state for political affairs, at award cere­monies in Washington's Mayflower Hotel, are (from.left] Afost Rev. John M. McNamara 
(LL.D. '34) Aux. Bishop of Washington; Dr. Charles H. Malik (LL.D. '52) of Lebanon, 
president of the U.N. General Assembly; Archbishop Egidio Vagnozzi, Apostolic Delegate to the U. S. and Father Hesburgh, who made the award. 
be obtained free in any quantity simply by writing and his bride were blessed with a girl, Julia Anne, 
to: Rev. Paulinus K. Sun, Nativity of Our Lord on May 6. The proud paternal grandfather is 
Church, 653 West 37th St., Chicago 9, III. - . . JOHN E. BOWER, SR., '25. 
SISTER J.ANE KOENEN, S.S.J., a summer school JAMES NICHOL/\S EUSTERMAN, Lcwiston, 
coed who got a master's with the class, Just picked Minn., of Dome, Blue Circle and Aesculaptan 
up a Ph.D. from St. Louis U. . . . Another mas­fame, will be in Atlantic City from September 28 to 
ter's recipient, JOHN T. KEHN, has joined the October 2 attending the Clinical Congress of the 
staff of Esse Research, Linden, N.J. American College of Surgeons. Jim, a senior at 
Nothing in the bottom of the mail bag so I the Yale School of Medicine, will be one of 36 guess that wraps it up. Tlic news was real fine medical students representing their schools by vote this time and I want to thank the parents, wives, of their fellow students and examining new surgi­sisters, etc., who have sent inc mail from time to cal techniques at the professional meeting. time bringing me up to date on many of the grads Last year, between written and oral exams in that I hadn't heard about since graduation. Also, his third and final year at Oxford, athlete and muchas gracias to those who alway's have something Rhodes scJiolar DON SNIEGOWSKI wxote to for cver>" column and to those who have written ProL FRANK O'MALLEY, '32. describing his im­for the first lime. pressions of O.-cford student life. A few excerpts 
RE.ME.MBER THE REUNION — (It's going to 

from hb absorbing letter: be here before we know it and for a thing like 
'^Perhaps the greatest single impressive element this, you have to be in shape. Start traininig now!) 
in the Oxford academic community is tradition. .. . Until next time, write if you get work. 
The facts that my college, Exeter, has a dining hall dating from the seventeenth century and that, in this hall, the student drinks his evening beer in tankards which might date from 1700 are not 
195 ^ John P. Deasy 
trivial ones. T^ey are part of a tradition which 5697 N, Lincoln Ave. impresses upon the student's mind the continuity Chicago 45, Illinois of history and encourage^ him to think of himself more conscientiously as a part of the human From the Alumni Office: family. . . . Because the student possesses this sense 
Reading the July issue, J,\MES W. PRICE was tradition and this perspective, he can move more alarmed at being placed in Newark, New Jersey, easily in an intellectual community whose main and hastened to correct the report: **I am employed task, after all, is the clarification and interpreta­by the Newark, Ohio, Public School system as a tion of the w*holc histor>* of ideas. hearing therapist or special teacher for hearing-"Opposed to this *informar education which the handicapped children." Jim explained that children English student can alu-ays receive is the 'formal* in grades I through 9 with hearing problems will education which he does receive in his secondary add daily lip reading instruction to regular classes schooling. .. . By the time he is sixteen, he is at Roosevelt Junior High-Eleinentar>' School. Jim specializing, to some extent, in one dbcipHne — adds: "Last year I ser\'ed the Newark schools on an itinerant basis. Next year's centralized setup will be more efficient. Also, I work with the di­rector of special education, the nurses and the speech therapists in carr>-ing out our hearing con-5er\'aiion program." Tlie program is described in detail in an article he wrote for the newspaper. We're sorrx* about tlic mistake, Jim, and glad you're still in Ohio. 
DAVE COLLINS, Ridgewood, N. J., is now a lawyer, having been graduated magna cum laude from the Har\'ard Law School in June. 
In June, also, BOB McKEN"n* married MLss Mary Koppe, a nurse from .-Vstona Long Island. In the wedding partv were two of Bob's classmates, KE.\ DONADIO and GERRY BRANN. Bob and Mar>' reside at 57-46 79th St., Elmhurst, L. I., and will be most happy to receive old friends at their new home. 
Back in April DON SCHAEFER signed with tlie Hamilton. Ontario, Tiger-Cats of Canada's Big Four Football Union. Don left the Philadelphia Eagles after the 1956 season for two years of air force duty. 
OMAHA and COlINCn. BLUFFS—New 
Some happy announcements involving JAMES T. HE\VnT, uho now resides at 486 Buffalo Ave., Nebraska officers, installed on Universal Calumet City, III. ^[a^^ied last year to Carol Ann Notre Dame Night are (I. to r.) Secretary Schneider (St. Mar\*'s '56), Jim was presented with 
Warren Youngstrom, '33; President Bill 
a daughter, Kim Marie, on May 28. More of same 
Seidlcr, '32; Vice President Bob Berry, '51, 
for JOHN E. BOWER, JR., who recently changed his address to 117 Oakview St., Pittsburgh 18. John and Treasurer Hughes Wilcox, '32. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 65 
hisior>% languages, or literature — or he is study­
ing a closely allied cross-section of the three. 
"Therefore, when he comes to Oxford, he is con­
versant with a \-ariety of ^fields' of knowledge and 
yet has a more specific knowledge of one 'field.' 
In the normal coffee conversation, then, he might 
well be able to relate one "field' to anollicr by a 
clever allusion . . . gtWng his part of the dis­
cussion a sense of scope and immediacy which 
I cn\y. . . . 
"One point whicli I must make clear is tliat, 
even thougli I have depicted the English student 
as the most learned of the learned, students from 
Notre Dame should consider themselves w*cll­
equipped to come to Oxford. Tliere are six of 
us here from Xotre Dame now and I like to say 
that we have brought with us the emotional ma­
turity and the respect for the important things 
whicli Xotre Dame tried so hard to give us. More 
specifically, none of us is finding the studies over­
powering. Here, loo, I think Noire Dame has 
prepared us *vcll.'' 
195 7 Charles P. "Pat" Williamson ''^' P.O. Box 605 Mt. Vernon, Illinois 
LAW SECRETARY Paul Kraus 1730 W.Bancroft St. Toledo 6, Ohio 
Reunion Registrant WILLLAM T. DOWNING 
From the Alumni Office: Commencements in June brought advimced _ de­grees to many of *57. Here are a few officially reported. Architect ROBERT J. LINN took his master's in city planning, while DESMOND H. 0*CONNELL, JR., supplemented his electrical en­gineering background with a master's in business administration, both degrees a^^'ardcd by Har\'ard Universiiy. And, at Washington U., St. Louis, Nto., got an il..\. in geology. ROBERT L. GEISE, who followed his A.B. with A degree in electrical cn^neering this ycar^ has joined the long lines department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Co. Bob is on a 41­week training program in Cincinnati before a spe­cific executive assignment. RAY McCLlNTOCK, down in Indianapolis, has joined the editorial staff of The Insurance Salesman, ji leading journal in the insurance publishing field. Ray is an editorial associate. Villager politiaan JOHN P. McMEEL has estab­lished bachelor quarters in the Windy City and made contact with the Chicago N.D. Club. Down at Fort Eustis, Va., RALPH L. SCHUL­LER, a test engineer in army transportation re­search and engineering, was promoted to first lieutenant in May. Ralph engineered for Allis-Chalmers briefly after graduation. 
IOC Q Arthur L. Roulc, Jr. 
•''^* ' 1709 Indiana Ave. LaPorte, Ind. 
LAW SECRETARY 
John F. Marchal 
Marchal &. Marchal 
140 W. Fourth St. 
Greenville, Ohio 
Greetings to '58crs one and all. I hope that this fifth edition of the '58 neu*s column finds cvcr>'body feeling happy, hale, and hearty, and I hope that the simimer has been enjoyable for all. At the time of this uriting, your secretary has just finished sweating out final exams here at the N.D. Law School and he is especially eager to begin the three month abstinence from study. 
The past year has fiown by with amazing swift­ness, and it has been interesting to obscr\"e the year's c\'cnts here at the campus through the eyes of a returning graduate. Tlie first thing I no­ticed upon returning was the great difTcrcnce that the absence of the familiar faces of four year's association made upon the campus. It was clearly not the same campus without the same men who had been living on it, roaming around it, counting the da>*s between \-acations from it, and scuro'ing back to it (say around 12:00 each evening) for tlie prerious four years. 
The football week ends, especially tlie week end of the .Army game, were clothed with something of 

66 Notre Dame Alumnus, SeptembeTj 1959 
a reunion atmosphere by the return of so many of 
our classmates and although it had been only a 
matter of three or four months since graduation it 
seemed as if it had been much longer. 
The uinler months descended with their usual 
ferocity and wc had record snowfalls, \vhich I 
understand made news from coast to coast when 
the University was forced to cancel classes because 
of mountainous snow drifts and blocked roads. 
I suppose the most graphic means of describing the 
weather to you men who spent four years here is 
just to mention the fact that the University was 
actually forced to close. I leave it to your imagi­
nation to picture the conditions necessary- to bring 
that about. 
Tlie winter scene was enlivened to a great extent by I'afTairc Brennan, of which I feci sure you arc just as tired of hearing as wc arc. Also, I was gratified at receiving the bits of news which trickled in during the winter and spring months xrith which I am able to keep this column going. 
Perhaps you are already aware of the fine records turned in by Notre Dame in the field of spring sports. The baseball, tennis, and golf teams all had exceptionally fine records, and the new Varsity under Joe Kuharich showed a great deal of promise in the Old-Timer's Game. 
And finally, the realization of how swiftly the ^ year had passed was brought home to mc when I sai*' this year's crop of graduating Seniors pre­paring for graduation, and I was reminded of our somewhat dampened departure from Xotre Dame a year ago. 
A sizable crowd of people descended on South Bend for this year's Old-Timer's game and among the many were TO.Nf O'BRIEN, BILL a\HILL, and HOOT WALSH, whom I met at an after-game get-together at Prof. PETER T. BRAOVs. Luckily these three Chicagoans (or ncar-Chicagoans) were full of news (among other things) and I learned the following: BILL CAHILL is studying law at DcPaul; TOM O'BRIEN, not long out of the Army is working for McGraw-Edison in Chicago. It seems that Tom is in the sales field and preparing himself for an executive position as soon as pos­sible. HOOT WALSH is working in the family coal and fuel oil supply firm in LaSallc, Illinois. 
I also learned of several weddings of the recent past and near future. It seems that both MIICE UNDERWOOD and JACK AR.MSTRONG arc be­ing married soon although I don't know who their brides will be. GERALD (TINY) RYAN is an­other soon to be married. 
JOHN HIGGINS and Miss Pat Seaton were mar­ried on June 6, and the marriage of JACK CRILLY and Miss Sherr>- Connerty on last June 28 (1958) in the Log Chapel at N. D. has been announced. 
BOB FORSBERG is married and now ^^orks for Peat, Marwick & Mitchell, the accounting firm. JOHN CLE.M.MER is also with Peal, Manvick & Mitchell in Chicago, I believe. 
Reminiscing about football in the '40s — before a baseball game at Milwaukee County Stadium — arc Joe Signaigo, '48, former All-Ameiican guard, now Southern sales manager for the Miller Brewing Co., and John McHalc, '43, once an Irish center, now general manager of the Milwaukee Braves. 
TRI-CITIES — From left, President-elect Dr. Robert J. Foley and guest speaker Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., admire a scroll proclaiming James P. Doyle "N.D. Man of the Year" on U.N.D. Night in Daven­port, Io%va. 
According to the report from Mr. O'Brien, MESSRS. FRANK FOX, JAY SENNOTT, DON MCNEILL, and LORAN SHEFFER are all at Fj. Lee, Virginia, ser\*ing their nation's Army, as^ ^ CARL MADDA. 
JOHN MCCARTHY , as was preriously reported, is in the seminary studying for the priesthood, and I recently learned that he is now at Winona, Minnesota. 
Congratulations are in order for Mr. and Afrs. AL WEINSHEIMER, who became the proud par­ents of a 6 lb. 8 oz. daughter on April 30 And congratulations too, to Mr. and Mrs. TOM MOORE of Detroit. They became the parents, on May 18, of a baby girl whom they have named Ana. Marie. Tom has completed his first year of law school at the University of Detroit. 
Other recently reported marriages: DON REILLY and Miss Marilyn Gallagher were married on July 11, and TOM SABO \rill have married Stcphsl^; Herbstritt on August 15. FRED HOLZL was mar­ried last fall; he and his wife arc firing in Chi­cago where Fred is an independent insurance agent. 
PHIL VAN DER KARR was married to Miss Ellen Lynch on June 27 of this year, and JACK REVORD will be married in December. 
One of my Chicago informants tells me that DICK PRENDERG/VST is in dental scliool at Loyola. 
Several of the architectural members of our class received their degrees this past June and I have received the following items concerning plans of some of them. BOB MOLUMBY is planning to continue his studies at the University of Cali­fornia, in Berkeley. TED AMBERG intends to put his arcliilcctural training to work in New Y^ ) City. FR/\NK McOWN plans to be married Mil November to Miss Joan Monaghan in Everett, Massacliusetts. MIKE HAYES will be \rith the 
U. S. /\rmy Corps of Engineers in Chicago doing design and construction work. STEVE DRAGOS will be in -the Afarine Corps for a while and then intends to work for the j\rcher Construction Co. in Chicago as a designer. 
Well, that is the extent of the news for this time. I hope that many of you arc considering returning for some of the football week ends this fall. If you do, be sure to look me up. In the meantime, keep those cards and letters coming. Remember: 
"Tills column depends, 0 y Upon its fricncU." 
From the Alumni Office: JI.M SHERER, *55, a Holy Cross novice at Sacred Heart novitiate, Jordan, Minn., sent in some sad news: "BILL RACHAC, JR., from New Prague, Minn., was killed instantly when his T-28 trainer plane crashed near Moore /Mr Base, Mission, Texas. . . . Bill was married this past November. His wife, Marj- is expecting a cliild. He is also sur^ vived by his parents, a brother and a sister. A Solemn Requiem Mass was celebrated in New Praguj June 2, and military riles at the grave fol­lowed. N.D. was well represented. The novitiate is very near Bill's home. Our superior, FATHER \VILLIAM CRADDICK, C.S.C., and three no\€i'S attended the funeral: JLM GALLAGHER and JIM CONNELLY, both '59, and myself." ROBERT P. McGOVERN received an M.A. in 

soclolog\- from N.D. in the stimnicr. Bob and his 
wife have two boys, Michael, born in April, *o8. and Tlionias, April, '59. Bob has plans for more ^^udy in education, hopes to get out West, has V^cn teaching retarded children at Logan School, Mishawaka, and u-ould like to continue in that 
field. 
DENNY D*ALEHO is a second lieutenant at James Connally Air Force Base, Tex., training in navigation, and JOHN JACHMAN is an ensign, graduated from Navy Officer School, Newport, R.I., July 24. 
PAUL TRAINOR is in sales training with Dow Chemical in Midland, Michigan. 
Law Secretary- JOHN MARCHAL trained in Texas and is now at Kccsler Air Force Base in Biloxi, Miss. Too busy for newsgatherlng recently, John will have a column in the next issue. 
I OC O  Dennis M. Ncad  
•'^  '  6121  RobisonRd.  
Cincinnati,  Ohio  

Well, it's been three months now since that warm but happy day of June 7 and it seems strange not lo be getting ready to motor back to South Bend. Certainly graduation week end was one which we won't forget and one which I am sure most seniors were glad to see. It seems that the Class of *59 has a large percentage that arc getting married in the near future or that have been married this past summer. This information I have gathered 
Ai m the cards that I pxssed out to you at school. 
^ T have cards on approximately four hundred of the class but this is not enough. Those that were unable for some reas<m or other to give me one of these cards, I would appreciate a line from you here at my home where it will be forwarded to Ft. Bliss. Texas, where I am presently stationed. I am sure the class is interested in what you are doing, so let me hear from you. ;Vs for the activi­ties of some of your classmates: 
JOHN H.VYWARD, your senior class pn-sidcnt, is currently aljoard the U.S.S. Independence where I am sure that he is serving the Na\y as well as he served Notre Dame. MARK SHIELDS, the pride and glor\' of Sorin Hall, plans to attend 
 schiHil at Biwlon College, while TOM REIN-

«
v ART will invade the campus of Norlliwestern University for med. schtKiI. 
JIM SCHREINER and GEORGE VANDER VENNET will hold down the fori at South Bend and attend law school this fall. TOM HARLE will study further on business administration at Indiana University. 
JOHN HART will make use of his law scholar­ship at Cornell University. KEVIN HALLIG.AN carries his militarv- bearing to Ft. Eustls, Virginia, where he will ser\'e Uncle Sam in the Transpor­tation Corps for two years. ROBERT WETOSK.V —"Wooska"—will play pro-foolball with the Wash­ington Redskins and I am sure that we will sec kim on the T\' screen s*Mm. Good Luck Bob. 
WjAMES COLOSSIMO will return to South Bend for one semester to play under Joe Kuhartch and here's hopin' tliat Jim does not have anv more trouble with the inrirmar>-. BOBBY WILLIAMS was married to Miss I'atricia Bergman on August 1*2 and will study medicine at the University of Pittsburgh. TOM BRADY will study medicine at the University of Pittsburgh. TOM BRADY will study at Columbia University and get his Ph.D. in hislorv after he has completed his service with the Navy." WILLIAM REILLY—Billy is the lone M.P. frinn the Senior ROTO class and, after his traffic duty at Ft. Gordon Georgia, he wants to study business at Harvard or Columbia. We have a ver>' 
^ibiilous class don't wc. TOM LEE will attend Ta d schiKil at Minnesota and study Industrial Re­lations. 
DAVID LEE VOORHEES has settled down after his daily studying for four years and is now em­ptoved w*ith the Sears Roebuck Cnmpanv. 
JOSEPH OSCAR NEUHOFF — Alimnii Hall is quiet now, but I rather doubt it, in Dallas, Texas, where Joe is in the Meat Packing business w-iih his father. ROBERT TURICCHI is going ilirt)ugli 
O.C.S. srhool at Newport, Rhode Island, with the .Va\y. DE.\N B.ARELLI is stationed at Ft. Bennlng. Georgia, in the U. S. Infantrv. JI.M CRIS.MAN, MARK KESSF-NICH, and DICK HORSFALL are in the Marine Corps at Quantico, Va. TONY GR.\HA.M is studying law at Yale University and 
t
ins to marry in Wllmette, III., in June, I960. 
•HN ANTHONY BELUMRS will study English 

at the Universitv of Chicago. JOHN SULLY BOYCE will go into law at St. 
DR. THOMAS C. MIRANDA, '59 Poljmcr Precocity 

Seldom docs a chemist go straight from the campus to found a research department for a major corporation, but that was the case this summer when The O'Brien Cor­poration, leading manufacturer of paints and x-amishes, announced the establishment of a new basic research department at the O'Brien South Bend plant and the apix)int­ment of Dr. Thomas Miranda as director of basic research. 
Under Tom Miranda's supervision, the entire facilities of this new department will be devoted exclusively to research work for the company, which also has plants in Bal­timore and Oklahoma City. The depart­ment was created out of the need for long range development work on new decorative and protective finishes and coatings for home and industr\'. 
Tom had received his Ph.D. in organic chcmistr>' at Notre Dame's 114th Com­mencement in June. A native of E\vamill, Oahu, Ha\raii, he came to the mainland to study at San Jose State College, San Jose, Calif., working his way through school with \-arious part-time jobs on and off the cam­pus. .\ftcr receiving his bachelor's and master's degrees he taught for a year at San Jose and, in 1953, entered the anny for a two-year hitch. In 1955 he applied for a Grace Chemical and Research Co. fellow­ship at Notre Dame and spent the next four years as a chemistry fellow doing pol^iner research for his doctorate. 
Citizens of Vetville since 1955, Tom and his wife, the former Carol Mac Mott of San Francisco, were married Dec. 5, 1953, and now have three children, Michael, 5; Charles, 3, and Irene, I. 
Tom's professional affiliations include membership in the American Chemical So­ciety and the Paint and Varnish Federation. 
Louis University this fall. JOHN LEAHY, the only one I knew besides Joe Bairlcy who did his thesis In one week, is aboard the U.S.S. CoUctt somewhere along the coast of San Francisco. Jolin states that he is a sure bet to be classified as one of the bachelors, come our first class retmion in 1964. Someone recently told me that on Friday night of this past June reunion some 20,000 caiu of beer were consumed; I wonder what the In­crease will be in '64. 
P.AUL NIKLAS was married to Miss Nancy Van Lahr on July 25 and ts working now with the Cin­cinnati Gas and Electric Company. JOHN FREY is stationed in BIythcville, Ark., with the Air Force and plans to marry Mbs Barbara Cassidy on Octo­ber ID. PETE HACKETT is in business with his father in Springfield, Ohio, and will marry Miss Sandy Sulli\-an come this January 30. TOM R. HAYES recently paid me a visit In Cincy while on his way to South -America lo visit his brother, who is working for some oil manufacturer. T.Y. has a vcrj- good job in California with the Budwetscr Brewery; could you think of anvthing better? JACK PARKER and TERRY MALONEY will go to medical school this fall at St. Louis University. JIM SULLIV/\N, after forty inter\Ic*«, is with the Standard Oil Company of CaUfornia and was married this July 25 to Mi$s Ann Carol Djcr. 
RON TOTH will join with Bob ^Vetoska in try­outs for the Washington Redskins. JIM SUTTER is aboard the U.S.S. James C. Owens In Norfolk, Va. He will marry Miss Lynne Matthews, a St. .Mary's graduate, in June of 1960. JIM RANKIN is with the Transportation Corps at Ft. Eustis and wants lo go to Wharton's Business School in Penn­syK-ania after his active duty has ended. TOM SMITH xvlll be in tlic .Adjutant General Corps at Indianapolis this fall and has set his wedding date for September 12, 1959, to Miss Mary Moran, an­other St. Mary's graduate. 
.MORT KEILLTY, an art maj'or from Oakville, Conn., is with the Slarines at present but will go after his Master's in Communication at Columbia University when he has finished service. HARRY McKEE, ROBERT GOLDSCH.MIDT, and FRED KOONAN are hack at Nore Dame for their fifth year in the Engineering Combination Program. GERRY JUNG and JOE BEKELJA will attend law school at Georgetown U. and GERRY BE­CHx\MFS will attend the same schiml but for medi­cine. 
ROGER the Rock BRESLIN is in the U. S. Na\-v aboard the U.S.S. Arneb and will attend law* school at Fordham U. In I96I. Sure hope that the ship has a couple of hoops for this boy; I think that J. Jordan could have found a spot for Mr. All Cam­pus. 
SCOT BRADSHAW, RICHARD LOMBARD!, and FRANK CAHILL are all stationed at Ft. Ben­ning, Georgia, with the Infantry. .\H three were married recently, to Miss Emily Diaz, Miss Lois Gorlesky. and Miss Marcia Fitch, respectively. GEORGE KLINE and .MERCER COLLINS xvi'll study medicine at Seton Hall Medical School. JOHN O'BRIEN and KEN UZNANSKI arc both studying medicine at Stanford and Northwestern University, respectively. KENNY BOONE was married to Miss Cher>l Glur this July 25 and Is with the Air Force In Mobile, Ala. 
BOB H.ASSENGER Is in the insurance business with his father. He was married June 27 lo Miss Teresa Smith. Wants to studv further in ps\'cholo­g>- at .Marquette U. JOSEPH MULLIGANIs the assistant director at Fort Scott Camps this summer and will enter St. Gregory Seminary in September. BILL BRELSFORD was married to Miss Elaine Fratcs this June the 8th in Las Vegas, Nev., and plans to attend U.C.L..A. this fall to study crimi­nologv-. JIM JUST is playing professional football in Canada and wants to go back to study Correc­tional Administration at N. D. after he has finished his six-month program with the Infantry. 
So much news then from your secretary. Remem­ber, please write me a line when you have time. It will only take a minute. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
FRED COONAN, JR., was the first cadet to show up at Fort Riley for summer training. Fred will be back on campus this fall working for a master's In mechanical engineering. His brother Tom is 3 '56 grad. 
KENNETH G. HORR is working on computers In the armament division of Sperry Gyroscope, where he's worked vacations as an englneenng aide. 
JOHN ROEDEL, JR., Is In technical services for Monsanto Chemical In Monsanto, III., and AR­THUR W. SHANNON represents Connecticut Mu­tual Life out of Detroit. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, September, 1959 67 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alumni: 

At the 1959 reunion in June your Alumni Board held its annual summer session on the cam­pus. \Ve were fortunate in lia\'ing almost a full complement of the board present to consider a variet>' of agenda matters and to arrive at some conclusions which we feel will benefit our Associa­tion. (See "Your Alumni Board.") 
One of the more important events of our meeting was tlie opportunity to confer witli a verj' representative facultj' committee to consider possible means of bringing some part of the Univer­sit)''s educational actixaties to each individual Alumnus. ^Ve have recognized a sincere interest on tlie part of alumni in containing educational relations with the Universit)'. And we learned from our discussions with the faculty committee that there is also a sincere faculty interest in assisting the Association in our efforts to ser\'e Alumni. \Ve hope to be able to present to you in future issues of the ALUMNUS a program which will be a start in tlie field of continuing educational relations. AVe plan on providing a supplement to the ALUMNUS which will feature several short treatments by Notre Dame faculty members of current broad fields of interest witli some bibliography for ad­ditional reading. (See "Editorial Comments.") When you have seen the first issue we will be anx­ious to learn your reaction. We will appreciate your comments and the Alumni office will be seek­ing an expression of your interests and suggestions for future supplements. 
Those of you who were at Notre Dame for reunion this year must have left the campus after­wards witli a warm feeling of satisfaction in the spiritual and material accomplishments of Notre Dame. We heard a remarkably fine speech from Father Hesburgh on Notre Dame's place in the world today. We had, as honored guests at our Alumni Banquet, tliree great priests who have con­tributed immensely to the Congregation of Holy Cross, to students and to Notre Dame for many years. We were blessed to have with us Fadier Eugene Burke, Fatlier Con Hagerty. and Father Tom Ii-ving, each of whom observed tlie golden anniversary of liis ordination in June. These men and otliers like them have given Notre Dame the place in tlie world today about which Father Hesburgh spoke. And tlie Akinni Association was extremely glad to be able to show its apprecia­tion to them in a small way b) honoring them at our Annual Banquet. 
The 1959 reunion with approximately 1,000 men returning to tlie campus was a real success. Reunion is, of course, one of tlie major undertakings of our Alumni office each year. It is a job which requires considerable planning for the many details of the program. This year, as always in the past, Jim Armstrong and his staff did a great job for all of us. I know that you join your Board in extending our sincere thanks to Jim and his entire office for tlieir cooperation, spirit, and invaluable assistance in all the undertakings of our Alumni .Association. 
Most sincerely. 

1$;f/G^7C7 
W. E. Cotter, Jr. President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 









