The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^ 
37 • No. 1 
March, 195 
His Holiness Pope John XXHI confers the Red Birctta on His Eminence John Cardinal 0"Hara. former President of the University. Bishop of Buffalo and Archbishop of Philadelphia, at \'atican ceremonies in December- See "Notre Dame's First Cardinal" on pages 6, 7 and 8. 
James E. Arm.strong, '25, Editor 
•John F. Lauglilin, '48, Managing Editor 
UNIX'ERSITV" OF NOTRE D.'\ME NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 
Office of the President CABLE ADDRESS DUUVC" 
January 16, 1959 
Dear Notre Dame Men - and families: 
Last evening at the annual meeting of the Alumni .Association Board of Directors, ?. 1. "Mike" layden handed me your spiritual oouquet of: 
12,145 Masses 11,800 Holy Communions 
12.556 Rosaries 
Mike says that this is an understate­ment, in view of the prohlems of spiritual bookkeeping. 
Any word of thanks for this magnifi­cent and much-needed gift would also he an understatement on my part. May I only tell you that I am not taking these prayers as a personal gift - much as I need them personally - hut am offering them for all of the good priests, brothers and laymen, living and dead, who have made, and are making, Notre Dame what it is; for the University and all its needs - that it may fulfill the promise of the future; and finally for all of our students and for you, our alumni, and your families, who manifest to the v;orld, better than anything else, v/hat Notre Dame really is. and what Our Lady's care has accomplished in human lives. 
Ever devotedly and gratefully in Notre Dame, 
<;jh.^q\/lArXAAA>Jr^^ €/<">'. 

Cotter, Jr., '41, Installed (like Dad) As Alumni President 
On Saturday, Januar)' 17, 1959, William E. Cotter, Jr., assistant to the vice president of tlie Oliver Iron Min­ing Co., Diiluth, Minn., was elected president of tiie Notre Dame Aluniak Association, a post held by his fatliw twenty-one years ago. 

The organization's 12-member board of directors also named three vice presidents. Tiiey are Jules de la Vergne, '33, New Orleans, La., archi­tect: Raymond \V. Durst, '26, River Forest, III., foniier president of the Hallicrafters Corp.; and Leo J. Vogcl, Pittsburgh, Pa., businessman. A 
James E. Annstrong, '25, Soutn Bend, Ind., was re-elected executive secretaiy for the 33rd year. 

A 1941 Notre Dame graduate. Cotter succeeds Francis L. "Mike" Layden, '36, district manager for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Evans­ville, Ind. The late ^Villiam E. Cotter, Sr., '13, who headed the Notre Dame Alumni Association during 1937-38^, was general coimsel for tlie Ur Carbon and Carbide Corp.. New York I City. 
The Cotters arc the second father! and son to become presidents of Notre I Dame's 27,000 member alumni or-j ganization. The late John H. Neeson, '03, Philadelphia engineer and founder I of Universal Notre Dame night, was | alumni president in 1923-24. His son. John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, PhiladelpI:^ attorney, held tiie same post in 1953. 
/fi lhi% Issue  . . .  
NEWS: Officers  and  Directors  Elected—pp.  2-3  • Laetare Medal  Awarded—p.  3  •jig ^ ^ill-^'  
•  U.  N.  D.  Night  '59—p.  11  • Report  on  the  Notre  Dame  Foundation  
—p .  4.  
FEATURES:  Notre  Dame's  First Cardinal—pp.  6-7  • Notre  Dome  Camp—p.  9  •  
Spotlight  Club—p.  15  • Classmates  and  Partners—p. 12.  
DEPARTMENTS:  Editorial—p.  5  • University  p. 11  • Law—p.  10  • Notre  Dame  
Clubs—p.  22  • Notre  Dame Classes—p.  36.  
ATHLETICS:  Policies  Unchanged  (Father  Joyce)—p.  16  • Facts  of  the  Matter  
(Father Hesburgh)—p. 17BOOKS: The Rdes Story—p. 20.  • Terry  (Bob Sedlack)—p.  19.  WM. E. COTTER,  JR.  
2  A'o/r< Dame  Alumnvs,  March,  1959  

Roberto. Murphy Wins 1959 Laetare Medal 
Deputy Under Secretary' of State Robert D. Murphy will receive the University of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 1959, it was announced March 7 by Rev. Theodore M. Hes-burgh, C.S.C., University president. 

^ The veteran career diplomat is the seventy-seventh recipient of the award which has been presented annually since 1883 to an outstanding American Catholic lajman. Industrialist Frank 
M. Folsom received the Laetare Medal last year, and Clare Boothe Luce, re­cently named U. S. ambassador to Bra­zil, was "similarly honored by Notre Dame in 1957. 

^ Father Hesburgh, in announcing the selection of the key State Department official, said: 
"Robert Murphy's diplomatic career spans forty years of distinguished ser\'­ice to his country, from World War I to last summer's conflict in Lebanon and the current crisis over Berlin. With brilliance and courage, in peace and in war, he has articulated American 

jgpreign policy in posts of increasing re­sponsibility. Moreover, his public re­cord and his private life reflect the highest ideals of his Catholic faith. The University of Notre TDame is proud to award to Secretary Murphy the Lae­tare Medal, the highest honor within its power to bestow." 
The Laetare Medal is generally re­garded as the most significant annual 

a^vard conferred-upon Catholic laymen in the United States. The recipient is named on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent, but the actual presen­tation takes place at a later date. Re­cent Laetare Medalists have included Gen. Alfred Gruenther, labor leader George Meany, actress Irene Dunne and former AEC commbsioner Thomas 
E. Murray. Murphy, who holds the rank of Ca­reer Ambassador in the Department of State, is credited, perhaps more than any one man, with averting all-out war in the Middle East last summer. As America's top negotiator in the Leba­non crisis, he conferred with officials there as well as heads of state in Jor­dan, Iraq, Israel and Egypt. His re­^)mmendations, based on these nego­™ations, formed the basis for American 
proposals and subsequent United Na­tions actions in that area. 

CANDIDATES FOR 1959 ALUMNI BOARD 
Monahan Farrell Conley McGiath 


Attorney and Three Businessmen Elected to Board of Directors 
An attorney and three businessmen were elected to the board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association in January. 
They are W. Edmund Shea, Dayton, Ohio, attorney; James J. Byrne, pres­ident of the Byrne Plywood Co., Royal Oak, Mich.; Paul J. Gushing, president of the Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd., Oakland, Calif.; and Walter L. Flem­ing, Jr., vice president of Fleming and Sons, Inc., Dallas, Tex., paper manu­facturer. 
The new board members were elect­ed in nationwide balloting among Notre Dame's 27,000 alumni. They were installed at the winter meeting of the twelve-man board at The Morris Inn on the campus January 16-18. 
Shea was graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1923 and has practiced law in Dayton since 1926. For fourteen years he served as assist­ant prosecutor for Montgomery Coun­ty, Ohio. He is a former president for the Notre Dame Club of Dayton and is city chairman there for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Byrne is a 1943 graduate of Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters. He served as a Navy officer during World War II and organized tlie Byrne Plywood Co. in 1954. He is a member of the Youn? Presidents' Organization and is a former president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. 

Gushing received a civil engineering degree from Notre Dame in 1931. Formerly chief engineer, he has been president of the Hydraulic Dredging Co. since 1939. He has been honored as a Knight of Malta for his leadership in Catholic affairs in the Oakland area. 
Fleming is a 1940 graduate of Notre Dame's College of Commerce. He also served as a World War II Navy offi­cer. He is a former Dallas County Republican chairman and a past pres­ident of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas. 
The four were nominated by a com­mittee of the 1958 board of directors last fall, along with four other nomi­nees who were runners-up in a very close ballot of the Alumni Association in December: Harry E. Monahan, Jr., '50, of San Diego, California, sports editor of The San Diego Union; Thomas A. Farrell, '26, of South Orange, New Jersey, owner of the Far­rell Oil Company, East Orange, N. J.; Charles A. Conley, '33, of Haverton, Pennsylvania, attorney for the Phila­delphia District Office of the Veterans Administration; and John A. Mc­Grath, '48, of Rockville, Maryland, ah attorney and president of the Notre Dame Club of Washington, D. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 


Gifts to University Top $3 Million Mark in '58 
Alumni Fund $130,000 Over '57 
The University of Notre Dame 
received a total of $3,020,052 in gifts 
and grants during 1958, Rev. John J. 
Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the 
Notre Dame Foundation, has reported. 
Fatlier Cavanaugh said last year's 
contributions were die largest in tlie 
12-year histor>' of tiie Foundation 
e.Kcept for 1956 and 1957 when Notre 
Dame received installments of a 
$3,074,500 Ford Foundation grant. 

Alumni should be proud of the gen­
erous record of 11,677 contributions 
for a total of $695,620, and an average 
alumnus gift of $59.57. The number 
of gifts is just slightly over the 1957 
total of 11,631. But tlie amount is 
$130,340.62 more tlian the 1957 total 
amount, and the average individual 
gift is up by $11. 

One major point of concern accom­
panies the new report. The alumni 
total participation moved from the 
1957 49.2% witli a 1958 decline to 
45.8%. During 1958 we of course 
added some 1,200 new graduates. We 
also elected some one hundred former 
students to membership in die Associa­
tion. Through improved records pro­
cedures we brought back almost five 
hundred alumni into active status 
whose addresses we had previously 
not had. The decline in percentage of 
participation comes from these addi­
tions, without an offsetting increase in 
the number of gifts. 

So again, in 1959, we urge each in­dividual alumnus, each Class, and each Club, to strive for participation in the Annual Alumni Fund. The amount is important but participation is primary'. 
In 1958 we had 4,533 gifts of $5 or less, 3,535 of $6 to $10, and 2,980 gifts of $11 to $25. So your gift need not be big to count significantly. Only 334 gifts exceeded $1,000. Thb should stress the wide option. Let's make 1959 a real record-breaker. Remember — Dartmoutii and Princeton have passed 70%! 
According to the year-end report, gifts totalling $721,180 were earmarked for faculty development at Notre Dame. The University has projected a 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

goal of $27,000,000 in endowment to increase faculty salaries as part of its . 10-year, $66,600,000 development pro­gram launched a year ago. By 1967 Notre Dame also hopes to acquire $18,600,000 for new buildings, $11,­000,000 for research and $5,000,000 each for student aid and special admin­istrative purposes. 
The overall 1958 total. Father Cava­naugh said, includes $695,620 from Notre Dame alumni, $1,323,384 from non-alumni sources including 453 cor­porations and foundations, and $992,­987 in research grants and fellowships exclusive of corporation-supported re­search. 
Notre Dame's class of 1902 had the highest percentage of participation in the alumni fund — 47.1% — but ap­proximately half of tile alumni con­tributors were graduated within the past ten years, Uie report shows. 
Father Cavanaugh reported tiiat parents of Notre Dame students con­tributed $246,490 last year, neariy 2J4 times more than in 1957. More than 1,200 parents participated in tiie de­velopment program, an increase of approximately 20% over die previous year. 
Gifts from corporations and founda­tions to Notre Dame during 1958 to­talled $769,923. This figure, it was explained, represents grants for cor­porate and foundation-sponsored re­search and fellowships as well as unrestricted gifts to the University. Corporations participating in Notre Dame's development program range from relatively small, locally-operated 
companies  to  internationally  promi­ 
nent  firms.  
Geographically,  the  largest  alumni  

gifts to Notre Dame emanated from Indiana, Illinois, New York, Califor­nia, Ohio, Micliigan, Missouri, Penn­sylvania, New Jersey and Iowa in that order. The top ten states in non-alumni giving were New York, Indiana, Mich­igan, Illinob, Pennsylvania, New Jer­sey, Connecticut, Wisconsin, Ohio and Texas. 
THE FOUNDATION AND THE ALUMNI OFFICE THANK YOU! 
A Sur\xy of Annual Giving and '• Alumni Support, published by the American Alumni Council in February, 1959, shows Notre Dame almnni look­ing good in the national picture. We have a long way. to go, and we are not satisfied with the performance ourselves, but you deserve to know that in the national spotlight you are doing a good job now. 
The late Gordon Chalmers, LL.D., '53, said: "The very rock on which allfl other gi"ng must rest is alumni giv­ing. Gifts from outside the family depend largely — sometimes wholly — on the degree of alumni support." 
The Survey covered 610 colleges and universities in the U. S. including 67 pri\'ate universities. (Our report was our 1957 Foundation year, ending Dec 31, 1957.) 
In "Effectiveness of Alumni Solici­tation," our 49.2% ranked us 4th in the top ten: (Private universities), f^ 
Princeton 
. 71.8 Dartmouth . 31.8 XaWcr (Ohio) . 51.8 NOTRE DMIE ,49.2 Brown U. .48.7 Crcighton .47.0 Boston U. .44.9 
Yale .443 Duke .38.4 M.I.T. .37.2 
In "AliunnI Gifts to the Annual Fund" Notre Dame ranked 6th in the top ten: (Private universities) 
Har\-anl 52,010^47 
YaJc , 1,793,872 *) Princeton . 1,162,196 Cornell 870,621 Chicago „._„_ _ 6«),5D7 NOTRE DAME 577,439 Pennsylvania tj . , 572,650 Coltunbia U. 524,272 Northwestern 502,223 Brown . 487,770 
In "Average Almnni Fund Gift" we ranked 10th in the top ten (Private universities). The emergence of strong Catholic school effort is interesting: 
St. Bonaventure U. !5lfU« DrPni,! IT. 103 77 PrMfjTitnn , 95.51 Prinrrtnn . 60.77 BnyJnr fifl.Oi 
iq^i V„I, 1117=; 
«Q7 
ll 7« NOTRE DAXIE .. 49.62 
We will have more analysis and com­ment in later publications. But for now, thanks to you who did this much. 
J.E.A. 
§ 

General Foods Corp. Joins Roster of Companies with Plans for Matching Gifts 
General Foods Corporation, through The General Foods Fund, Inc., has in­stituted a matching gifts program for colleges and universities. The GF Fund is prepared to match each yeM/ dollar for dollar, contributions to the University of sums from $10 to $1,000 

by employees who are alumni or friends ^ f Notre Dame. 
CcUia^ial eommettU '^'°'"

Alumni Secretary 
General Foods joins more than fifty 

companies which have Alumni Match­ing Gift programs in effect. Each com­pany will match, up to certain maxi­mum amounts, every gift made by one of its employees to his Alma Mater. Ever}' N. D. alumnus who works for one of these firms and contributes to the Alumni Fund can have his gift sub­llJtantially increased — often doubled — by notifying his company, on its of­
ficial form, that he has contributed. 
Among firms known to have match­ing gift plans are: 

Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corpora­tion, Bank of New York, AVhitney Blake Company. Bonwit Teller, Inc.; Burlington Industries Foundation, Cabot Foundation, Inc.; Campbell ^ou p Fund, Canadian General Electric Company, Ltd.; Cleveland Electric Il­luminating Company, Columbian Car­bon Company, Connecticut Light & Power Company, Continental Oil Com­
pany. 
The Dow Chemical Company, Draper Corporation. General Electric Company, General Foods Fund, Inc.; General Public Utilities Corporation, 

^ibb s & Hill, Inc.; Glidden Company; 
m. F. Goodrich Company, W. T. Grant Company, Gulf Oil Corporation. 
Harris Intertype Foundation, Hew­lett-Packard Company, Hill Acme Company, J. M. Huber Corporation, Jefferson Mills, S. C. Johnson & Sons, Inc.; Jones & Laughlin Steel Corpora­tion, Kaiser Steel Corporation, Walter Kidde & Company Foundation, Walter Kidde Constnictors, Klopman Mills, 
^fnc;. Koiled Kords, Incorporated. 
Lehigh Portland Cement Company, Manufacturers Trust Company, Mc­Graw-Hill Book Company, Inc.; Na­tional Distillers & Chemical Corp., Na­
tional  Lead  Foundation  Company,  
Inc.;  National  Supply  Company,  
Owens-Coming  Fiberglas  Corpora­ 

tion, Pennsalt Chemicals Corporation, «helps Dodge Foundation, Reliable lectric Company. 
Russell, Burdsall & Ward Bolt & Nut Company; Scott Paper Company Foundation; Smith, Kline & French Foundation; Tektronbc, Inc.; Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc.; The Wallingford Steel Company. Warner Brothers Company, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.; 'Williams & Company, Young & Rubicam Foundation. 
~ If your company has an Alumni Matching Gift program not listed above, please notify the Alumni Office. 
Philanthropic appeals are becoming so numerous as to frighten many good 
people.  
Fundamentlly,  this  rapid  rise  in  
philanthropy  is  one  of  the  finest  
things  in  our  
time.  It  repre­ 
sents  a  much  
greater  realiza­ 
tion  of  man's  
obligations to his  
fellow  man  —  
the love of  man  
and the desire to  

James E. Armstrong benefit mankmd that the word philanthropy connotes. And it represents a political-religious realization in this country that the good of man is the privilege of a free society, and not the prerogative of the state. 
But this does not mean that our limited pay envelopes — pre-shrunk by withholding taxes and payroll deduc­tions — can increase our response to increasing appeals without limit. 
Many of us are confused. Many of us are resentful. And this confusion and resentment can jeopardize all the appeals, most of which are good in themselves. 
What do we do? 
Well, the obvious and Christian answer is to do all we can for as many good causes as we can. And we should remember that true charity involves some element of sacrifice. 
Here are a few suggestions that may help. 
We all have basic obligations — community appeals, church, local schools, personal interest charities, etc. This basic obligation should include our own college and that of a wife, because alumni and alumnae are the primary force of an institution, who have enjoyed its primary benefits, and therefore have a primary obligation to it. 
This already provides a v'aried pat­tern of philanthropy, and for many of us this multiple program, if pursued generously, may logically close our doors to other appeals no matter how deserving. This is the status that only the individual can judge. 
A source of confusion in these basic appeals is that they vary greatly in urgency and in presentation. One pastor has an overflow parochial school problem that demands immediate con­struction. He cannot aret nuns before a convent is assured. A bishop points out that he cannot get enough semi­narians for his diocese unless he builds a seminary. The community fund, al­ready at exhausting campaign peaks, finds an extra 10 per cent target to meet increased costs of repeated serv­ices, or to meet new agency needs. 

And in the pile of mail is a very quiet reminder that your support is needed again for some cause that may be just as vital as those cited, but whose spokesman is modest, uninformed, or overconfident. So you must exercise your judgment in dividing your sup­port, not yielding to appeal pressure, but to your own knowledge and back­ground, plus the expressed need. 
Philanthrophy, in the sense of bene­fitting mankind, has to be intelligent, whereas charity can be true charity, in a subjective sense, without measur­ing its objective merits. 
Beyond this first line of appeals in your life there lie many deserving causes which need you, and benefit truly from even a modest gesture of support. I have been told that most of the Catholic mission appeals antici­pate only the dollar or tvvo return as the backbone of their existence. It is true, even in the Annual Alumni Fund, that the backbone of participation, and a very real and substantial amount, lies annually in the gifts of $10 and under. 
So don't be confused and resentful if your mail brings daily and multiple appeals to your heart. Your heart re­sponse —^ through prayer — can be much greater than your financial re­sponse, and "still store up for you treasures in Heaven." 
But it will help you, and help those dependent upon your help, if you will organize and anticipate the annual diversity of demands, and make provi­sion for a proper sharing of your phi­lanthropy. ^Vhen you are moved by emotion or urgency or pressure to dis­rupt this program, many real and es­sential programs suffer as a result. 
No cause asks your all! But each needs its part. 
In the case of Notre Dame, be happy that the University has opportunities which enlist your support, and that you live in an individual and social world where you may choose to give it. 
—Jim Armstrong Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 



Notre Dame's First Cardinal 
(Ed. Sow: On November 17, 1958, ilu­radio announced tliat Pope John XXIII had named Philadelphia's Archbishop John F. O'Hara, "11, as Cardinal, alonj; witii two honorary al urnni Archbishop Richard Cushing (LL.D. M8) of Boston and Archbishop Amleto Cicognani (LL.D. 
•38), Apostolic Delegate to the U.S. In December the three Cardinals Designate flew to Rome for formal ele\-ation at the Papal Consistory. The author, Secretar\' of the N.D. Club of Rome and a teacher at Xotre Dame International School, gives a colorful account of a triumphant sojourn in the Eternal City. All Notre Dame men are now praying for the University's first Prince of the Church in his current painful battle with arthritis. J. L.) 

John Francis Cardinal O'Hara as he appeared for a press conference at the archicpiscopal residence in Philadelphia shortly after the announcement of his elevation. 
TOP: Notre Dame men ijalher as Cardinals-designate Cicognani and O'Hara (center) converse with Very Rev. Christopher O'Toole, C.S.C.. Holy Cross superior general, and Rev. Theodore Mehlins, C.S.C.. proxincial. BOTTOM: Receiving BigHettos (oflicial notification of nomination to the College of Cardinals) are, 1. to r., Richard J. Cardinal Cushing of Boston; Ainlcto Cardinal 
Cicognani, apostolic delegate to the U. S., and Cardinal O'Hara. 
^•. 
€i 

6 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 
Swiss Guard and other new cardinals stand by as Cardinal O'Hara (right foreground) approaches for prostration at public consistory in St. Peters, assisted by his secretary, Msgr. Joseph J. McGIinn. 
Cardinal O'Hara leaves the public consistory, accompanied by Rev. Donald Haycock, C.S.C., newly ordained Holy Cross priest from Hazelton, Pa., in the Cardinal's ecclesiastical province, and a papal valet assigned to the Cardinal. 
BY VINCE MCALOONJ '34 

A
LL the Holy Cross Fathers, Brothers, . Sisters and all Notre Dame men and friends in Rome jumped for joy when word arrived that Notre Dame's ever "Father O'Hara" was to receive the Red Hat. 
Right away some of us recalled with amusement how Father O'Hara as Prefect of Religion at N. D. used to bestow tiie '"Red Hat" with due satire via the "Religious Bulletin" upon the most recent "Lay Cardinal" of the campus, sonic student "brain" who had sounded off pontifically in criti­cism of some point of faith or morals! 
Wc all knew in those days that Father O'Hara had not only episcopal possibilities but tliat he had also "Eminent" stature should the great honor come to him. The proof of this inherent conviction was the current and affectionate nickname bestowed upon him by the student body. As Prefect of Religion and as presiding judge of those unforgettable sessions in his special "gripe" room in the famous Sorin tower (first floor facing Ciuircii entrance), lie was simply "The Pope." 
After proudly watching him elevated to ati.KiIiar\' bishop o[ the U. S. Armed Forces, then to Bishop of Buffalo, and finally to tlie .Archbishopric of Phila­delpliia, it was a tlirill to be at the Rome airport and to see His Eminence 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Designate step from the plane and give the old familiar round of "Hi Bill, Hi Tom, KG Mike." So, surrounded by a large delegation of the O'Hara family and his Philadelphia flock, he headed gratefully for tlie General Curia of die Congregation of Holy Cross where we were to have the honor of his residence together with Notre Dame's honorar)' alumnus, Cardinal 
Designate Amleto G. Cicognani. Facing up to a back-breaking Con­sistoiy schedule, what with his painful arthritis taking its toll. Cardinal O'Hara went "down the line" of cere­monies like a traditional son of Notre Dame. In day to day sequence they were: receixdng the Pope's messengers an­nouncing his elevation, this at North American College; attending the semi­public Consistory at Vatican to receive the red biretta; taking part in the public Consistor)' to receive the red hat and to join in the "prostrations in St. Peter's; receixang at his Holy Cross residence the deliver)- of tlie red hat; taking possession of his titular church, Sts. Andrea et Gregorio. Interlaced among these ceremonies were what seemed to be endless receptions. 
Notre Dame in Rome, that is, Notre Dame International School and the Notre Dame Alumni Club, naturally wanted "live minutes" of His Emi­nence time, yet hesitated to impose on him in the face of liis killing schedule. But when he was approached with a big "If from us, John F. O'Hara, the educator who builds schools, and who as an N. D. alumnus has been a model of N. D. spirit, told us that he would be on deck for us. 

Visiting Notre Dame International School, the Cardinal not only spoke to the 270 lads from 35 nations on that favorite theme of his about what you find on the first page of the catechism, but on his way down the auditorium aisle he turned around and asked tlie audience how many of their dads were 
N. D. men. Echoing his great reputa­tion of being a man's man in his spiri­tual approach to men, one otherwise sophisticated teenager remarked after the Cardinal left: "He's o.k. He talks to you like a man. Dressed up like a cardinal I didn't CKpect liim to be so straight-from-the shoulder." 
"Father O'Hara" was completely in character when he took part in tlie Annual Communion Celebration of the Notre Dame Alumni Club which we delayed one week in order to have him join us. Even before he left Phila­delphia, we had a letter assuring us of his presence. 
•^Vith over 100 present including 15 members of the O'Hara family. Cardi­nal O'Hara celebrated Mass for us and at the same time in memorj' of his mother who is deceased exactly four­teen years as of that date.' It was a unique experience for Notre Dame men and their families tiien to receive Holy Communion from his hands once again. As a recessional the Holy Cross Seminar)' choir did — in four parts 
— that spine tingler,' "Notre Dame Our Mother." 
Following Mass tlie Communion breakfast was held and there "Emi­nent Membership" in the N. D. Club of tlie Eternal Cit)' was conferred upon Cardinals O'Hara and Cicognani. Honorar)' Membership was conferred upon Bishop Eustace J. Smitli, O.F.M., Vicar Apostolic of Beirut, Lebanon, who is not only an N. D. rooter from way back but who was consecrated by 
Cardinal Cicognani and whose conse­cration sermon was preached by Cardi­nal O'Hai-a. In the absence of Jerr\' Ashley, president, (back in Detroit drumming up an N. D. Pilgrimage to Rome), George Gleason, %'ice presi­dent, presided. The Chair for con­ferring the special memberships was turned over to Captain Frank Bon, ' 
U. S. Nav)', Naples, who was presi­dent of the senior class at N. D., '26, when the Cardinal was writing those "Lay Cardinal" Religious Bulletins. The actual presentation of the scrolls was made by tiie Very Rev. Christo­pher O'Toole, C.S.C, Superior Gen­eral of tlie Congregation of Holy Cross. 
In addition to the local club mem­bers present were t\vo distinguished guests, Rt. Rev. Msgr. William J. Doheny, C.S.C, Judge of tlie Roman Sacred Rota and Father Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C, Provincial of the Indiana Province. And for the first time here, two Sisters of Holy Cross from St. Mar)''s, Sister Charles Bor­romeo and Sister Gertrude Ann who are studying in Rome. Ever)'one agreed that their "millinery" alone added to the N. D. look. 
Other N. D. people from tiie U. S. who were in Rome for the Consistor)' and attended our club function: John 

A. Hoyt, Jr., of die N. D. Club of 
N. Y. C.'; William J. Corbett, '27, and son John, '56, of Chicago; Bob and Mrs. Connelly, '49, of L. A., Calif.; Mrs. Ed Layden, mother of E. J.. 
N. D. '37, of Danville, 111., cousin o Cardinal O'Hara. j 
NDers in town who had to mis the event: Fatiier Phil Kelly, C.S.C of Eastern Mission Band; Edwi: ("The Last Hurrah") O'Connor; D] Joe Bergan, '42 (Moon Mullin: brother-in-law); and our dearly be loved dean emeritus of the N. E Architecture school. Dr. Frank Kei vick, who was our guest at Christma dinner along with a former N. D. stii 

dent of his named Larry Corr. 
The end of this unique N. D. aflfai almost ended up like an N. D. game that is, almost unruly: Cardinal Ci cognani stood up and cried out — "Let's have three cheers for Cardins O'Hara." Cardinal O'Hara countere( with asking for three cheers for Cardi nal Cicognani. On the spirit of tin moment. Father Ed Heston oi chaplain, called out: "Let's have th Victor)' March." ^Ve did, loud am lustily. Then with a true N. D. wind up, we all knelt while the two Cardi nals jointly gave their blessings. 
Not to be outdone in N. D. loyalt) 

after the meeting, we saw Bishop Smitl 
talking to a tape-recorder. He wa 

telling the NBC Monitor Progran 
what he thought of Notre Dame. Tl* 
playback revealed that Notre Dame ha 
a deluxe frontiersman in the Near East 
Reverend Anthony Lauck, C.S.C., asslstani professor of art at Notre Danie examines a portion of a new stained glass wall whicb he designed for the new Morcau Scminarv on the canipns. The glass wall, which -J 60 feet wide and 29 feet high, is believed to be the largest of its kind in the world. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

I. D. Oamp to Open 13th Season 
1 ^ Alumni are frequently asking about summer camps for their sons. Here is one which has an unusual number of answers for the Notre Dame man with a son 8 to 14. The boys' camp operated by the Brothers of the Midwest ProNdnce of the Congregation of Holy Cross begins its thirtcentli consecutive season on June 28th. Located about sLxty miles 
I from the University, tlie camp is on 
I ^ankson Lake, a popular resort area near Lawton in southern Michigan and rife with good fishing. The sLx­weeks camping season consists of three periods of two weeks each, in any or all of which a boy may enroll. The sessions begin on June 28. Julv 12. and July 26. 
Notre Dame Camp has historical interest for University alumni because 
I mil the early years of this century the Notre Dame faculty used to spend the summers there, along with Brothers on leave from the Community's otlier schools. During those yeai-s the base­ball teams made up of Holy Cross reli­gious played many of souUiern Mich­igan's bush league nines and racked up a fine record. 
A A noteworthy feature of Notre Dame Camp for Boys is tlie fact that a Brother-counselor is in charge of each group of nine or ten boys throughout the day. Thus the 125 campers are divided among tlie counselors, of which there are 25 or 30 so tliat the Brothers may have some free time. All the Brother-counselors come to Notre Dame Camp from their regular high ^hoo l teaching assignments. The counselor for each group of boys sees that they participate in the sports and games, obser\'e proper decorum in the 
dining hall and elsewhere, attend the scheduled daily Mass and prayers, and get appropriate rest during the after­noon siesta and at night. The chap­lain, a Holy Cross priest, and the resi­dent nurse, are the only non-Brothers on the camp staff. Present director of the camp is Brother Roland DriscoU. Other Brothers man the ci"aft shop, the kitchen, the maintenance department, coordinate the sports program, enter­tainment, and games, or do private tutoring. 
Catholic boys from 8 to 14 may enter Notre Dame Camp. Each must have a current health certificate before being enrolled. 
The program has been set up by the Brothel's with a view to teach growing boys to play, work, and pray togedier, not so much through formal instruc­tion as through firsthand experience 
— and that pleasurable. Boys with a scholastic deficiency of some sort may have private tutoring from the Broth­ers, if parents so desire. The Brother cooks are men wt h long experience in preparing appetizing food for large groups. Of note is the fact that the campers and stafT dine on the same fare and that the Brother-counselors sit with their respective groups at the same tables. 
The camp is under the patronage of the Blessed Virgin, as its name attests, and the Brothers maintain a strictly Catholic atmosphere throughout. Be­sides attending daily Mass, the boys say the rosary with their respective counselor, and all gather in chapel for morning and evening prayers. 
Information about Notre Dame Camp may be had by wridng Camp Director, Brothers of Holy Cross, Notre Dame, Indiana. After June 15 th, the address is Camp Director, Notre Dame Camp, Bankson Lake, Lawton, Michigan. 

Young Notre Danie campers assemble between supervised sports, crafts, daily rest and religious activities. 
StaiT at Notre Dame Camp, except for chaplain and nuisc, are all Brothers of Holy Cross on leave from high school teaching assignments. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
VOOR HONORED 
William E. Voor, L'25, is the new Presi­dent of the St. Joseph County Bar Associ­ation. Mr. Voor is a former Vice President of the Notre Dame Law Association. 
GRAY'S INN 
The newest student organization is Gray's Inn. Named for one of the four major Inns of Court, it ^vas founded in 195+ by mem­bers of the Class of '57. So far this year it has held two meetings of outstanding in­terest. The subject matter of the first vtas "Cival Liberties within the Labor Move­ment." Various aspects of this topic were discussed by members of the student body, as follows: 
Robert Blakey of North Carolina (Class of '60): "Right to a Fair Trial in Union Proceedings against a Mem­ber" and "Problems of Racial Dis­crimination" 
Paul Titus of Pennsylvania (Class of '60): "Right to Participate in Unicn Elections" 
John Slevin of Illinois (Class of '60): "Right to an Accounting of Union Funds" 
Frank Prebenda of Michigan (Class of '59): "Current Legislation and the In­dividual Member" 
Assistant Dean Brodcrick acted as mod­erator. 
The topic of the second meeting was "Toward World Peace." The speakers were Congressman John Brademas, who dis­cussed the "Foreign Policy of the United 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
States" and Professor W. J. Wagner, whose subject was "The International Court.'' Professor Thomas F. Broden acted as moderator. 
POINTING WITH PRIDE 
The present first-year class (the Class of '61) includes 27 students who entered with an undergraduate degree from Notre Dame. Of these, 19 were graduated with honors. They include the Chairman of the Blue Circle for 1957-58, the Debate Team President for 1956-57, the Debate Team President for 1957-58, the Vice President of the Hall Presidents' Council for 1957­58, the Secretary of the Class of '58 and the Student Senate's Academic Commis­sioner for 1957-58. 
The following table gives the total num­ber of students entering with a Notre Dame degree in each of the preceding five years. 
1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 18 18 II 20 15 
PUBLIC SERVICE 
On December 4, 1958, The Law School sponsored a symposium on the opjMrtuni­ties and responsibilities of lawj-ers in career public ser\-ice. 
The speakers were: Mr. Oscar H. Davis, First .'\ssistant Soli­citor General of the United States Mr. Thomas G. Meeker, General Counsel of the Securities and Exchange Com­mission 
Mr. Murray Scasongood, former Mayor of Cincinnati Mr. Hugh Sherer, Chief Counsel to the -•Attorney General of Ohio Mr. G. W. Snyder, Assistant Regional Commissioner of Internal Revenue Messrs. Davis and Meeker discussed the 
opportunities and responsibilities of career public ser\*ice in the Federal Government. Mr. Snyder approached the subject from the point of view of a regional Federal official. Mr. Sherer described the public service challenges in State government. Mr. Seasongood explored the practicing lawj-er's opportunities for public ser\'ice in the local community. 
MOOT COURT 
Our Moot Court team lost to the Uni­versity of Chicago Law School in the first round of the Regional Competition in Chicago in November. There is consolation, however, in the fact that our team's brief received a score substantially higher than their opponent's. 
Last year and also the year before our Moot Court team won the championship of Region 9, comprising Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. 
A LAW SCHOOL DEAN 
If the Dean tries to be friendly, he's a hypocrite; if he doesn't, he is high-hat, and should never have been made Dean. 
If he solicits visits from his students, he's an old busy-body, neglecting his other duties; if he doesn't, he's a snob. 
If he has a good command of the language, he's affected; if he doesn't, he could never flunk twenty freshmen in Intro­duction to Law. 
If he knows all of the students by name, you wonder why there is need for an Assistant Dean; if he doesn't, he's adverJ tising for the number system. ^ a 
If he attends all of the student functionsKsl you'd think he'd know better; if hei doesn't, or if he only drinks coffee, • there's talk of poor student-faculty re-f lations. 
If he demands hard work and systematic review, he's an unpardonable slave driver; if he doesn't, he doesn't have the future welfare of his students uppermost in his mind. 
If the Dean himself keeps abreast of the current problems, he's tr>'ing to capturQ the public eye; if he doesn't, he's only' concerned with that old woven tapestry. 
If he takes a day off or goes to a ball game, tsk! tsk! tsk! — he shouldn't have two secretaries; if he doesn't, he's an old fossil. 
If he delivers a 20-minute talk, he's dull: but if he speaks for only 10 minutes, he hasn't prepared. —Tom McNeill, L'58 
A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 
Mr. Oscar John Donvin, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of The Texas Company, has entered with enthusiasm upon the perform­ance of his duties as National Chair­man of the Notre Dame Law Asso­ciation's Scholarship Program. He has written to every Notre Dame lawyer regarding The Law School's need for scholarships. 
Area Chairmen have also been ap­pointed and arc undertaking a syste­matic follow-up of Mr. Dorwin's letter. 
Contributions received by mail in response to Mr. Dorwin's letter will be credited to the area from which they come. 
Thanks for your generous response, 
and all best wijh:^ for the New Year. Rog^ P. Brennan, President, Notre Dame Law Association 
LEGAL BRIEFS 

_ William H. Carnahan, LL.B., '49, of 
•)eadwood, South Dakota, was elected State's Attorney of Lawrence Count>', 
S. D., last Novem­ber. After law school Bill worked two years in Los Angeles, spent four years with the Air Force Judge Advo­cates office in Eu­rope and North Africa. For nearly two years he has 

practiced in the Black Hills and been a pillar of the Notre Dame Club of the same name. 
Thomas L. Murray, LL.B., '51, South 

Bend, Ind., was elevated to the chairman­ship of the Young Law)-ers Section of the Indiana Bar .Association at the annual state meet­ing last fall. Tom is with the firm of S e c b i r t, Oare, Deahl & Thorn­burg. He and his wife Pat have two boys and two girls including .Anne, 
Murray born in January. 

Notre Dame men at a Law Association luncheon meeting in conjunction with last annual meeting of the American Bar Association in Los Angeles: (1. to r.) Eugene Kennedy of Los Angeles, immediate past vice president of the N.D. Alumni Association; U. S. District Judge Luther M. Swygcrt of Hammond, Ind.; Michael L. Hines of Las Vegas, Ner., a director of the Law Association; Joseph O'Mcara, dean of the'N.D. Law School; Leo B. Ward of Los Angeles, Calif., and U. S. District Judge Raymond J. Kelly of Juneau, Alaska. Judge Sivygert and Dean O'Meara spoke at the meeting. 
FACULTY NOTES 

Professor Bernard J. ^Vard has been elected a director of the Legal .\id Society of St. Joseph County. 
Professor Thomas F. Broden participated in a panel discussion in Washington spon­sored by the Special Subcommittee on Legislative Oversight of the House of Rep­resentatives. The discussion dealt with \-arious problems the Committee has under consideration. The panel was composed of six law teachers, six government officials and 12 practicing lawyers. Reports from Washington indicate that Professor Broden read an excellent paper, which was well received. 
Members of the Faculty were guests of the Law .Advisory Council at breakfast on Saturday morning, November 15, 1958. 
# 36th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night April 6 
Clubs around the world are polishing their programs for the 36th Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, April 6 this year, or thereabouts. 
And in that modification lies a lot of story. 
In 1924, the Alumni Association en­joyed the leadership of John H.Neeson, '03, Philadelphia, as President, and 
fT^lfred C. Ryan, '20, as the first lay .Alumni Secretar)'. 
The Night was originally conceived as a single occasion on which all the clubs — then totalling 40 — would convene simultaneously, to tell their constituencies, their communities, and the world, that Notre Dame was a great University in many aspects other 
^ha n athletics. Their hope was that a central pro­gram might materialize through media such as radio, by which the Universitj' administration could contribute the current story of Notre Dame. In a number of subsequent years this hope was developed and several na­tional radio programs were broadcast, some from the campus and some from ^.ey club cities. But it became increasingly evident as the clubs grew in numbers and in 
strength that the real contribution of Universal Notre Dame Night is in the immediate local club program, featured wherever possible by a speaker from the campus, a campus film, or some personality who embodies the leader­ship of Notre Dame. 
Thus was developed the modifica­tion from a single date — the Monday following Easter Monday — to dates adjacent to this central date, which has made possible the appearance of the University president, the administra­tion, faculty and coaching staff mem­bers, at more than one club meeting. 
As the clubs have strengthened, the public relations values, the prestige of the University, the alumni leadership in religious and civic life, have been increasingly reflected in outstanding programs around the U. S. and around the world. Many of the local programs in recent years have matched some of the programs of earlier years in the national significance of their speakers. 
The growth of the University as an educational asset of world significance, the developments in science, in litera­ture, in business and industry' leader­ship, in spiritual training and in the lay apostolate, has kept pace and given the clubs an annually renewed stimulus to translate these vital developments to their members, their friends, the families of the present students, and to an increasingly a\vare public. Local radio and television have augmented the meetings. 
This is the broad background of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night in 1959. Well over 100 Local Alumni Clubs of the 167 listed will ha%'e strong individual programs of community importance. The cumulative value >vill add sub­stantial stature to Notre Dame. 
And even in the small and new clubs, not yet ready for all-out com­munity impact, the traditional gather­ing of alumni will provide each alumnus with new assurance of the values he attaches to his Notre Dame education, and broaden the definitions of the contributions he can make to his community. 
The success of the Night, like the success of all cooperative effort, lies in understanding and participation. Sup­port the club program as it is set up in your community. If you haven't re­ceived an announcement yet, remind your club officers, who may, like the rest of us, suffer from creeping calendars. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
married in May 1946 and now resid& in Me.\ico City. They have four chilS dren, Fred Jr. (11), Dan (10), Susai^ (8), and David (5). Fred was bornQ 


Classmates and Partners Hold Reunion Each Year 
Four Musketeers from Class of 1941 Stick Together with Haskins & Sells 
Four members of the Notre Dame Class of 1941 have a private reunion ever\' year at the annual meeting of partners of Haskins & Sells, interna­tional firm of certified public account­ants. They are William J. Sturm, Frederick A. Voglewede, Louis A. MacKenzie, and Lawrence M. Walsh. 
Bill, Fred, Lou, and Larry, all B.S.C.'s in accounting in 1941, started their careers in public accounting, shortly after graduation, in Haskins & Sells' training program in New York. After several monUis diey began one by one to leave for militar)' service. 
1946 saw them all return to Haskins & Sells following dieir periods of service. Bill as a Naval lieutenant, Fred and Lou, respectively, as Air Force and Army captains, and Lariy as a sergeant in the infantr)'. Lou re­turned to the firm's New York office and Bill to the Chicago office, where they have since remained. Larrj' and Fred both went to the firm's office in Cincinnati, remaining there until about tiiree years ago when harry was trans­ferred to the Executive Office in New York and Fred to the Mexico City office. 
Promotion followed promotion as each moved up tiirough the ranks of tile firm's junior and in-charge ac­countants, and on to become prin­cipals. 
Widiin the last few yeai-s each has been admitted as a general partner in die firm. 
Tlie four have been active and held various posts in the American Institute of CPAs, the American Accounting Association, and their \'arious State CPA Societies. 
1946, and they now live in Old Green­wich, Connecticut. Their four children are Lou Jr. (11), John (10), Mar>' Anne (6), and Richard (6 montlis). Lou was born in Groton, Connecticut, the son of Louis A. and Jessica J. Mac­Kenzie. 
Larr\' and the former Miss Mary LaRouche of Oneida, New York and St. Mary's College, were married in October, 1941. They reside in Chat­ham, New Jereey widi their three children, Therese (16), Katiileen (14), and Mike (2). Larry was bom in Portland, Maine, die son of John A. and Mary H. Walsh of diat city. 
Fred and the former Miss Ann AVilliams of Chatham, Virginia were in Decatur, Indiana, the son of Charles?:^ and Anna Voglewede. 
Bill married Miss Mar)' Crouse in November, 1942. They now live in Glenview, Illinois and boast six young­sters, Roseanne (15), Jane (13), Mark (11), Maiy (7), Jim (3), and Mar­garet (1). Bill was bom in Chicagc-»|| the son of \Villiam G. and Johanna ' Sturm of that city. 
Haskins & Sells, established in 1895, was one of the earliest firms of profes­sional accountants in this countiy. They now have offices in 34 principal cities in tiiis countr)', and others in the principal cities of Canada, Europe, 
The firm first recruited Notre DamC' 
South  America,  and  throughout  the  
world.  fif  

students for its staff in the early thir­ties and has visited the campus for that purpose ever)' year since. Notre Dame classes over the years have sent many other graduates to the staffs of Haskins & Sells and odier CPA firms, as have other colleges with comparable pro­gi'ains in accounting. It seems unlikely, however, that any class from any col^ lege can boast a record in public ac':^ counting as proud as that of this one class from Notre Dame — from four members of the Class of 1941 to four partners of Haskins & Sells. 

Classmates (1941) and partners in Haskins & Sells, at a recent meeting of the firm Lou married tiie former Miss Eliza­
the Greenbrier Hotel in White Sulphur Springs, are (I. to r.) William J. Sturm, Frederick beth Swift of Des Moines in August, A. Voglewede, Louis A. MacKenzie and Lawrence M. Walsh. 
72 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

ART gifts acquired recently by the N.D. gallery: "Portrait of a Young Girl" by Jean Baptiste Greuze (1725-1805), presented in December by Mr. & Mrs. Arthur Wiesenburg, New York City, to commemorate the Atoms-for-Peace con­tributions of Father Hesburgh & Laetare Medalist Frank Folsom; an allegorical painting of Our ^'ady & the Austrian coat of arms by George Kasper Prenner (1720-1766), gift of Austrian Chancellor Julius Raab, LL.D. '58, presented by Ambassador Dr. Wilfried Platzer in February. . . . The 6th Annual Festival of the Arts last fall fea­tured an exhibit of 70 pieces of contemporary painting & sculpture by Braque, Berman, etc.; a lecture by the director of the Guggenheim museum, N.Y.C.; a program of readings by Pulitzer Prize poet Richard Wilbur; a concert by the N.D. Per Musica Chamber Orchestra premiering an over­*jjre for winds & strings by Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C, head of the music department. . . . For news of 2 N.D. sculptors see "Faculty" below. . . . AWARDS included the 1959 Laetare Medal to State Department troubleshoofer Robert Murphy, 
LL.D. '58. Several full- or part-time diplomats 
have been medalists in recent years: Ambassador , Jefferson CafFery (1954), now retired; actress I & U.N. delegate Irene Dunne (1949); former I NATO Gen. Alfred Gruenther (1956), now head­
ing the Red Cross & mentioned prominently for g^ecretary of Defense; Atoms-for-Peace delegate T^rank Folsom (1958), & Clare Boothe Luce, new ambassador to Brazil. . . . 1942 medalist Helen 
C. White, novelist & teacher, won the 9th annual i Cardinal Newman Award last fall. . . . 1942 
medalist Dr. Jeremiah Denis Matthias Ford died I in his Cambridge, Mass., home last October after I a long illness. For 36 years Smith Professor of 
French & Spanish at Harvard, Dr. Ford, through • achievements in literature & history, earned world­wide academic honors. . . . Missileman Dr. wVernher von Braun received the 6th annual Patriotism Award of the N.D. senior class from the officers at traditional Washington's Birthday exercises Feb. 20, joining Bishop Sheen, J. Edgar Hoover, Gen. Curtis LeMay, Senator John & brother Robert Kennedy as recipients. . . . BOOKS published recently by the University Press: "Pa­rochial School: A Sociological Study," by Rev. Joseph Fichter, S.J., visiting professor of sociology, finds that parochial pupils have less social sophisti­cation than their publicly educated counterparts 
^u t that parish schools are freer from bureau­cracy. . . . "The Dogma of the Immaculate Con­ception," edited by Rev. Edward O'Connor, C.S.C, 
is a 700-page study by 13 theologians on the keystone of Marian doctrine, with several docu­ments & 50 illustration. . . . Out soon: "Soviet Policy toward the Baltic States" by Albert Torulis & "The Congress Founds the Navy, 1787-98," by Marshall Smelser. . . . For a new book by an 
N.D. poet see "Faculty" below. . . . CONFER­ENCES, past & future. . . . The 20th annual con­vention of the American Catholic Sociological Society, Dec. 28-30, 1958, with papers on school segregation, Puerto Rican migration, etc. . . . The 7th annual Union-Management Conference on Feb. 27, directed by Rev. Mark Fitzgerald of the economics dept., was addressed by leading representatives of industry, labor & government. . . . N.D. will sponsor a Rnance & Industry Forum on April 25 for accountants, attorneys, cor­poration & foundation executives, investment firms, life underwriters, trust officers & all persons interested in the management of estates & trusts. . . . FACULTY editors of THE REVIEW OF POLITICS are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the famed cultural quarterly by compiling "The Review of Politics Reader" & issuing large special editions dedicated to the journal's prime movers. Former President John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C, & the late Dr. Waldemar Gurian, 1st editor; present staff includes historians M. A. Fitzsimons & Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, editor & managing editor re­spectively, & associate editors Frank O'Malley & John J. Kennedy of the English & political science depts. .. . Dr. John T. Croteau of the economics dept. addressed the National Credit Union Man­agement Conference in Philadelphia last October. 
Commerce Dean James Culliton has announced that the Summer Graduate Program will offer fen graduate courses toward an M.B.A. in the sum­mer session, particularly suited to members of religious communities in administration or teach­ing. Information can be obtained from Dr. Wil­liam F. Eagan, coordinator. University Box 86. . . . Prof. John T. Frederick, author, editor & re­nowned authority on American literature, was appointed head of the English department last November. . . . The poetry of John Edward Hardy, associate professor of English since 1955, has been collected & published as "Certain Poems" 
(Macmillan). Other faculty poets: John Frederick Nims ("Iron Pastoral" & "A Fountain in Ken­tucky"); Ernest Sandeen ("Antennas of Silence"); John Logan ("Cycle for Mother Cabrini"); Pro­fessors Norbert Engels, R. J. Scheck & Louis Has­ley. . . . Last fall N.D. sculptors finished 2 unique works: Ivan Mestrovic completed a lorger-than-
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 13 
life bronze of the late Pope Pius XII for the Pius XII Memorial Library in St. Louis, his 3rd rep­resentation of the former pontiff vi'ho befriended him in W.W. II exile from Yugoslavia (a bronze bust & stone relief are in Rome); Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C, sav/ the finish of the huge pictorial stained glass wall he designed for the chapel of the new Moreau Seminary on campus, largest work of its kind ever executed. . . . Prof. E. Jerome McCarthy of the College of Commerce has been awarded a Ford Foundation fellowship for the one-year Institute of Basic Mathematics for Ap­plication to Business to be held at Harvard & 
M.I.T.
 beginning next September. . . . GRANTS from the National Science Foundation: $209,000 for an institute for high school math teachers dur­ing the 1959-60 school year (about 40 appli­cants will be accepted for stipends up to $3,000 plus expenses; math teachers should apply to Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the mathematics dept.); $48,000 for a summer institute for high school chemistry teachers beginning June 19; $65,300 to support engineering research by Dr. Bernard 

C.
 Cullify, metallurgy, & Dr. Lawrence Lee, engi­neering science; $12,420 for summer research in the N.D. Radiation Project, the largest radiation chemistry facility at any university according to its director. Prof. Milton Burton. . . . From the AEC, $52,550 to expand nuclear technology un­der Engineering Dean M. J. Goglia & Dr. hKarce\ 

K.
 Newman, director of nuclear engineering. . . . From the National Cancer Institute, $36,200 for biological research by Dr. Alfred Marshok. . . . From the Ford Foundation, for the 3rd year, $3,400 to the University Press for publication of scholarly works in the humanities & social sciences. , . . LECTURE series included some familiar titles. .. . Dr. Richard Lord, M.I.T., gave 6 lectures on spectoscopy for the annual Peter C. Reilly chem­istry series. . . . Commerce invited 4 U. S. economic experts for the annual Cardinal O'Hora Seminar Lectures: Dr. Sidney Suffrin, Syracuse U. economist; 

M.
 S. Szymczok, Federal Reserve governor; Dr. James O'Leary, insurance researcher, & Dr. Ray­mond Goldsmith of N.Y.U. .. . Dr. S. E. Luria, Illinois & M.I.T. virologist, gave the February Nieuwlond Lectures, named for late chemist-botanist Rev. Julius Nieuwlond, in the Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Hall. . . . Father Hesburgh launched the annual Marriage Institute for seniors, 6 weekly lectures featuring 2 priests, a physician & 3 mar­ried couples. . . . MUSIC highlight of a concert-lecture series featuring the Gay Tyroliers, Julliard String Quartet, pianists, singers, etc., was the sell­out recital of Andres Segovia, foremost classical guitarist. . . . RELIGIOUS activities of Rev. John A. O'Brien, director of N.D. Bureau of Convert Re­search, through Catholic Census & Information Programs recently in Oregon & Wisconsin & cur­rently in Saskatchewan, have received a warm commendation from Pope John XXIII. . . . Fr. O'Brien published on article in EXTENSION mag­azine & pamphlets at Our Sunday Visitor Press, including "Are You Fair to Jews?" .. . At the new Holy Cross African Mission with Fr. Vince McCouley are 3 newly ordained Holy Cross 


Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

priests, Frs. Frank Zagorc, Robert Hesse & Burton Smith. Address: Virika Catholic Mission, PO Box 76, Fort Portal, Uganda, British East Africa. . . . SPORTS headlines included the closing of the 1958-59 basketball season with a 12-13 won-lost record & a brilliant 51-35 victory over the N.C.A.A.-bound Marquette Warriors; graduating co-captains Gene Duffy & Ail-American Tom Hawkins surrendered the captaincy to forward Mike Groney. .. . 3 1958 footballers, guard Al Ecuyer, fullback Nick Pietrosante & end Monty Stickles, made EXTENSION magazine's All-Cath­olic All-Americon eleven, while 10 were reserved by the National Football League draft: Ecuyer by (jJew York, Pietrosante by Detroit; quarterback Bob Williams by the Chicago Bears; tackle Bronko Nagurski, Jr., by San Francisco; tackle Angelo Mosca by Philadelphia, tackle Dick Loncar by Pittsburgh &, by the Washington Redskins, end Bob 'WetosVa, tackle Don Lawrence, fullback Ron Toth & halfback Norm Odyniec. .. . TV critics gave top marks to last November's Rockne spe­cial; a quote from the Cincinnati ENQUIRER: "Amazing as well as informative. What a great revelation about a fooball genius. Thousands of words in a biography couldn't touch it. . . . Re­markable manifestation of wit & sense of hlimor. Small wonder Knute Rockne teams had indomit­able drive." . . . STUDENTS pledged an average of more than 6,000 f/iosses, Communions & ro­saries for the intentions of Cardinal O'Haro in a mammoth spiritual bouquet before his departure for Rome in December. . . . With 40 scholars en­rolled, N.D. ranks 12th of 343 institutions with winners of National Merit Scholarships drawn from outstanding high school students; picking up 22 Woodrow Wilson teaching fellowships in 1958, the University bettered its 6th place total of 18 in 1957. . . . N.D.'s quiz team met & bested Georgetown's best on CBS-TV's "G-E College Bowl" from Washington March 8, went on to defeat at the hands of Barnard College in Wash­ington Hall March 15. . . . "Go Now—Pay Later" is the advice of leading educational authorities to current students; private & governmental funds for long-term, low-interest, no-security loons should diminish the need for scholarships, liberate funds for faculty salaries & development. . . . SYMPOSIA included a study of the impact of im­migration on the American Church Feb. 13-14, sponsored by the history dept. & the Faculty Seminar on American Civilization; a continuation of the symposium on "Roman Catholicism & the American Way of Life," it featured notional ex­perts on U.S. ethnic minorities. . . . The philosophy dept. conducted a "Symposium on Christian Wisdom" hftardn 6-7, exploring the special role of Catholic colleges. .. . A symposium on "Values in American Society" sponsored by the sociology dept. with the help of Lilly Endowment, Inc., attracted scholars from Harvard, Cornell, Ford­ham, Columbia, etc., March 23-24. . . . THEATER highlights in a season of Shakespeare, Shaw & Sophocles, were Michael Gozzo's "Hatful of 
Rain" last fall & T. S. Eliot's "Murder in the Cathedral" in February. 
Eddie Mayclioff, "Old Pro" of stage, 

^Ecrccn and TV, assumes famed " "That's my boy" expression. 
Harry Stuhldrchcr tells the team they arc "better off for having played the game." 
Members of the 1958 Notre Dame football team were entertained, ad­monished and honored at the 39th annual Civic Testimonial Banquet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, December 10, 1958, at the Nortli Dining Hall on campus. 




ST. JOE VALLEY STAGES ANNUAL FOOTBALL NIGHT 
Team Entertained, Admonished, Honored At 39th Civic Testimonial 

s*??­
BY JOE DOYLE 
Sports Editor South Bend Tribune 
Comic Eddie MayehofT, featured entertainer, regaled the team with his plea to schedule "my school. Teetering Rock U., against Notre Dame." The proposed game would be played on "Strife Field, named in honor of our well-known benefactor. Friendly Strife, the streat industrialist." 
"No alibis," says Terry of his 19 'ccord of six ivins and four dcfca 
Sports coliunnist John P. Caimich: plays "straight man" to Mayeht as toastmaster. 
His descriptions of the campus and the athletic plant at the mythical west coast college were aptly illustrated by the comic's "old coach" marmerisms. 
Featured speakers were Rev. Ed­mund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University; Harry 
(Continued on page 21) 

I ''^•i^^a//^^ ^a 
By Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, '37^ Executive Vice-President of the University of Notre Dame 


Athletic Policies Remain Unchanged 
(Ed. Note: Because of the unusual quantitative — and qualitative — re­action in the national press to the change of coaches, the Alumni Board of Directors has agreed with the Editor that the Ai-uarNUS, at the risk of be­laboring an already enlarged issue, should give to all alumni several im­fmrtanl items of information. One of these is the statement of the President of the University in answer to Sports Illustrated; a second is the significant 
• editorial iti the first post-holiday Scho­lastic by the student editor reflecting student opinion, and the third is this very vital restatement of the unchang­ing policies of intercollegiate athletics under which Terry Brennan worked, and under which Joe Kuharich will continue to work.) 
In the highly emotional response to the release of Terrj' Brennan as head football coach, the wildest sort of speculation became rampant in the press. The most intemperate conclu­sion was that drawn by Sports Illus­trated in an article entitled "Surrender at Notre Dame." The underlying thesis of tliis article ^^'as that athletic excellence can be sought only by sub­ordinating and injuring the academic program of the University'. 
It goes without saying tJiat such a 

statement is gratuitous and patently 
without basis at Notre Dame. Indeed, 
we are firmly convinced, and our ex­
perience has borne this out, that there 
is no incompatibilit)' between a first-
rate academic program and e.xceptional 
performance on the playing field. 
Unfortunately, success in intercol­legiate football has long been suspect on the part of the American public. Even more unfortunately, there have often been good reasons for this. There are abuses attached to the intercol­legiate game, serious abuses at that, and all too often the colleges have suc­cimibed to the temptation to cut cor­ners in order to produce \vinning teams. 
In order to forestall any such abuses gaining foothold at Notre Dame we have established what we believe are 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
the most stringent set of rules in ex­
istence at a major university. It might 
be well to restate these now. 
First of all, a prospective athlete 
must go through the normal admission 
procedures. We will never accept a 
boy unless he has the high school 
credits required of any entering fresh­
man. This means that he must have 

had a substantial high school educa­
tion, and that his scholastic record in 
high school and the results of the Col­

lege Entrance Examination Board test 
show that he has the potential for do­
ing university work. 
Once at Notre Dame, he must fol­low the regular program for the col­lege in which he is enrolled. There are no fresh air courses. Like other stu­dents he must take a minimum of fifteen semester hours of work. To be eligible for participation in athletics, the boy must not only be free of aca­demic probation but he has had to maintain a 77% average, even though 70% was the traditional passing mark. 
The wisdom of these strict academic requirements has been proven over the years. Whereas in the schools where athletes are given reduced class loads and weak, vocational tj-pe subjects, many have never graduated, it is an extremely rare occurrence for a Notre Dame monogram man not to graduate with his class. (See Notre Dame, Vol. \^II, No. 4.) 
One of the major abuses in collegi­ate football today is the practice of "red-shirting" which, involves keeping a boy at the college for five years so that he gets an extra year of training be­fore he begins his three year varsit)' eligibility in his junior year. For well over a quarter of a century Notre Dame has operated on an eight se­mester rule, thus eliminating the pos­sibilit)' of "red-shirting." Incidentally, the Big Ten, by vote of their facult)' representatives, have just this year adopted an eight semester eligibilit)' rule. 
By maintaining administrative con­trol of the scholarship program, by dis­couraging alumni funds for the recruit­
ment of athletes, by refusing to be­
come involved in under-the-table dealP* 
with outstanding prospects, by not per­
mitting transfer students from other 
colleges to engage in intercollegiate 
competition here, Notre Dame has 
avoided many of the abuses which are 
presently plaguing tlie college game. 
By insisting that the athlete is a stu­

dent ^first and foremost, by not making 
the scholarship contingent upon athlet-„, 
tic performance, by avoiding bowlB* 
•games, Notre Dame has kept its foot­ball program in proper subordination to its educational objectives. 
To hearken to some of our critics, one would suppose that all of these rules were being discarded with the re­lease of Terr)' Brennan. Not so. The policies \vi\\ be exactly the same under Joe Kuharich's tenure. Nor will there be a stepped up program of rccruit#,i ment and scholarships, as was errone­ously reported in some newspapers. In all of the excitement stirred by tlie re­lease of Terr)' Brennan, one simple fact was generally overlooked. Instead of abandoning the principles which have given us a soundly conceived athletic program within an academic frame­work, it is precisely because we refuse to compromise our educational integ^; rit)' that outstanding coaching leader­ship is so imperative. In C.oach Ku­harich, an able, experienced and de­voted Notre Dame man, we confidently expect such leadership. 
FATHER JOYCE 

Several years ago. Sports Illustrated kindly invited me to express some con­
victions regarding intercollegiate ath­letics. In a recent Sports Illustrated article entitled, "Surrender at Notre Dame," you say that I have found it impossible to live \vith these convic­tions at Notre Dame and have reversed myself, or allowed myself to be re­versed, albeit reluctantly. If I read the article correctly, and separate the fact 
Jrom the fiction, your conclusion is de­rived from the single fact of our having changed football coaches. 
Here are a few more facts and con­victions that may suggest an alternate, although perhaps less colorful, inter­pretation of that single fact. My pri­mary conviction has been, and is, that whatever else a university may be, it must first of all be a place dedicated 
mtp excellence. Most of my waking hours are directed to the achievement of that excellence here in the academic order. As long as we, like most Amer­ican universities, are engaged in inter­collegiate athletics, we will strive for e.\cellence of performance in this area too, but never at the expense of the primary order of academic excellence. This you may take as gospel truth and 
^the deep conviction of our total admin­
"istration and faculty. 
Now as to official University policy. Our new coach, Mr. Kuharich, will be governed by the same Articles of Ad­ministration for intercollegiate athletics that governed Mr. Brennan during the past five years. I wrote the latest re­vision of these Articles some years ago, and can assure you that there shall be 
^no changes in the strict rules and regu­lations governing athletics at the Uni­versity: no softening of admission standards, no lowering of scholastic average for eligibility' each year, no amending of scholarship requirements or numbere, in a word, no Universit)' athletic policy change at all. I shall personally assure the new coach that excellence of performance within this 
9lraditional framework is what we seek at Notre Dame. Winning by means outside this framework of academic control would ' be without honor or gIor>' in a university, and winning in athletics or anything else is both for­tuitous and meaningless unless it is a reflection of excellence in performance to the full measure of one's ability, good training, and the will to win. We 
^do want to win this way — but no other ^vay — and we malce no apology for the will to win, as long as it keeps 
The President of Notre Dame Gives Sports ff/usfrofed Magoiine 



THE FACTS OF THE MATTER 
By Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
© 1959 by Father Habtush and Time, Inc. 
faith with the honor and integrity that should characterize an educational in­stitution. 
Now for a few more facts to dispel a few current myths. As much as one might enjoy being a martyr, I have not been the victim of alumni pres­sure. If I must be a martyr to some­thing, let it be pressure for excellence, and that mainly in the academic order. Our alumni contributed more than $500,000 to the University last year. I know of no contributions directed by alumni towards athletics or athletes. As a matter of public policy, such con­tributions would not be welcome here, and if anyone has any doubts in the matter, let this enlighten him. I re­ceived a total of two negative commun­ications from the alumni regarding football this past year. This fact alone must be something of a record as a university president's mail goes. I take all this as an assurance that our alum­ni are more interested in the academic advance of the University, for this in­deed is the main import of their letters, and the prime purpose towards which they enthusiastically contribute, both time and money. 
But still there remains tliat single nagging fact — we did change coaches. Why? Must there not be something sinister in this? Nothing more sinister than a commitment to excellence, and the judgment that the performance ^vould be bettered by the change. Like all judgments regarding human per­formance and the standards of excel­lence, this is a fallible one. Many may disagree with it. Yet it was made unanimously by the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics at its regular De­cember meeting. The Director of Athletics, while he does not have a vote in these matters, did agree vnth their recommendation. Ultimately, I had to approve or disapprove their recommendation. I studied their rea­sons, discussed them with some trusted counselors here, and made my decision on the same basis that I would decide any change in University personnel. Once the decision was made, I dis­cussed the timing of the announcement mth Terry. We mutually decided to make it before Christmas rather than after the New Year. This was decided mainly in the interest of the assistant coaches, considering the then present availability of other coaching positions that might not be available later. Sal­aries for all are, of course, continued for three months or until they are placed. 
I fully realized at the time that this would not be at first glance a popular decision, but then, most difficult deci­sions are not popular, and most de­cisions relevant to excellence are diffi­cult. We could, for example,'' greatly improve the ivhole structure of;Amer­ican education tomorrow if we-.would make a few difficult and unpopular de­cisions. In any even^ the j. important factor for an administrator is to be convinced that he is actiiig reasonably and rightly. ^Vith this conwction, I ap­proved the recommendation of the Faculty Board, and frankly did so'wth mixed emotions, reluctance, if you \vill, because Terry Brennan is an attractive young man, a good friend of mine from his student days, and my personal choice for Head Coach five years ago. 
So there are the facts of the matter. We do have a new Head Coach, but (Continued on next page] 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 17 
At N.C.A.A. coach's convention in Cincinnati (from left) Alumnus Joe Meyer (former coach at Xa«er, U. of Cincinnati) congratulates two men selected for Sports Illustrated magazine's 1958 Silver Anniversary All-America: Dr. Charles M. Barrett of Cincinnati and Xa\-icr U., and Edward ("Moose") Krause, cited as "one of the greatest athletes Notre Dame ever produced," now athletic director of the University. Competition honors former players who have dbtinguishcd themselves in their chosen fields and community service. 

THE FACTS OF THE MATTER 
(Continued from within tlie same framework. I have no fears about Joe Kuharich misunder­standing diis framework for he, too, is a Notre Dame graduate wlio continued studies here towards a master's degree. He was a varsity player of distinction and a freshman football coacli during his days of graduate study. He under-
The Four Horsemen rode again—well, three at least—at the third annual sports banquet of King's College, Wilkes-Barrc, Pa. Seated, from left, are backs Don Miller; Rev. George P. Benaglia, C.S.C., president of King's (filling in for missing fullback Elmer" Layden), and "Sleepy Jim" Crowley. Harry Stuhldrehcr, standing, was principal speaker. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1939 
previous page) 
stands what we stand for, and he has our confidence. Despite any sjTidicated surmises to tlie contrar)', he is not ex­pected to be Rockne, but only Kuhar­ich; he is not to be measured by any nostalgic calculus of wins, losses, and national championships, but only by the e.\cellence of his coaching and tlie spirit of his teams. This is quite differ­ent from a philosophy of "win or else." A team can perform miserably and win, and a team can look magnificent in defeat The won-and-lost record is no ultimate criterion for a reasonable and thinking man. Excellence of per­
formance, spirit, and the wi!l to win are really central to any good sport actiwty and are, I believe, the precise values that have attracted most Amer­icans to cherish competitive sports. Lose these values, or depreciate them, and no game is worth playing. 
One last word. VVhile I can appre­ciate the wide national interest in sports, I think it somewhat of an in­version of values that a university can appoint twenty distinguished profes­sors, make broad and significant changes in academic personnel to achieve greater excellence, without at­tracting more than a slight ripple of attention. But let the same universit)' make a well-considered change in ath­letic personnel for the same reason, and it sparks the ill-considered charge that it is no longer a first-rate aca­demic institution and must henceforth be considered a football factory. 
It seems to me that a little mori?, diought is in order regarding what makes an institution academically first-rate. What has relevance here is of a different and higher order — die qual­it)', maturity, and seriousness of its students, die intelligence and dedica­tion of its faculty, the significance of its research, the condition of its facili­ties, and, most important, the total, and primar)' commitment of the wholu university program to academic excel­lence. What die University does ath­letically, assuming it to be in a proper framework, neidier adds to nor sub­tracts anything from these relevant and all-important academic facts. There is no academic virtue in plajing mediocre 
NEW IRISH HEAD FOOTBALL COACH: JOSEPH LA^VRENCE (JOE) KUHARICH 
Joseph Lawrence Kuharich was bom April 14, 1917 in South Bend, Ind. After attending Riley high school in his home town, he enrolled at Notre Dame in the fall of ]934. In three seasons at right guard, Joe earned three varsity monograms, and started in his last two years. 
In 1938, (he same year he graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree, he served as an assistant freshman foot­ball coach while taking graduate studies. The following year he coached at Vincentian Institute, Albany, N. Y. In 1940-41, he played for the profes­sional Chicago Cardinals and was named an All-Pro guard. For the ne.xt four years he ser>ed as a lieutenant in the Na\y during World War II. 
Returning in 1946 to become line coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers, Kuharich moved to the Universit)- of San Francisco as line coach the fol­loiving year and was elevated to head coach in 1948. In four seasons with the Dons, his won-lost record was 26 and 14. The 1951 team was one of the nation's finest, compiling nine straight victories against no defeats. Thb led to a head coaching position with the Chicago Cardinals in 1952. In 1953 he left to scout for various teams. He joined the Washington Red­skins in 1954 and became head coach the same year. After the 1955 season he was named professional "Coach of the Year." Kuharich continued with the Redskins, compiling a 26-32 won-lost record, until he accepted the ap­pointment as head coach at Notre Dame December 22, 1958. 
Joe is married to the former Madelyn Eleanor Imholz of Middletown, N. Y., and is the father of two sons, Joseph Lawrence, Jr., 13, and William Martin, 3. 

football and no academic vice in win­
ning a game that by all odds one Should lose. 
It could be and indeed is tragic, 

however, when a university or a nation 
puts the greatest importance and inter­
est in those things that are less import 
tant in the total scheme of national 
life. The good need not be, but often 
is, the enemy of the better. At least in 
this, we are grateful that Sports Illus­
trated and others are so interested that *ve keep our goals in proper perspec­tive. There has indeed been a surren­
der at Notre Dame, but it is a sur­At an early conference of Notre Dame's 1959 football coaching staff are (I. to i.) Freshman 
render to excellence on all fronts, and Coach Hugh Dcvore; Assistant Line Coach Dick Stanfel, former San Francisco University 
and Washington Redskins star; Head Coach Joe Kuharich; End Coach and First Assistant 
in this we hope to rise above ourselves 
Bill Daddio, formerly of Purdue and the Chicago Cardinals; and Dick E^'ans, line coach 
with the help of God. 
from the Redskins. Not present for picture were Backfield Coach Don Doll, formerly with 
the University of Southern California; Backfield Assistant Joe Scudero, Redskin defensive 
back, and E.\ecutive Assistant Dave Slattery, former Washington sportsAvriter. 
jterry 
(Ed Note: Following is a student editorial reprinted from the Januarj- 16 issue of the NOTRE D.\ME SCHOL.J1STIG.) 
On the morning of Monday, January 5, 1959, at a small community in northern Indiana, a si.-ange phenomenon occurred: approximately six thousand students and a few hundred teachers converged on half a dozen class buildings for the resumption of regular classes following Christmas x-acation. 
.-Vctually, there's nothing at all strange about this phenomenon, a daily occurrence eight months of every year — nothing strange, ^^hat is, unless you'd been reading the daily newspapers (including the Catholic press) during the previous two weeks. But as a matter of fact, everj'one had been reading the newspapers; not only that, it seemed as though everyone had been \vriting letters of protest. The furor was so great, we feel, that many people wondered whether classes would ever resume. Just for the record, they did resume and arc continuing with amazing regularity. But why the furor and doubt?—because Terr>' Brennan, the head football coach at the University of Notre Dame, had been replaced. There undoubtedly will be a number of our non-campus readers who will object to the use of "replaced" to describe the situation. All right, Terr>' \ras fired. We prefer to use "replaced" in the 
_hope of relegating the whole controversy to its proper perspective. 
••' In general, the feeling on campus, among the students, is that Terry did not do as good a job with his material as he should have done. For this reason he was and should have been replaced. .At last report there have been no lynching of University officials, no rocks thrown, not even an interesting fist fight over the matter on campus. Indifference? No, we think not. Perhaps we (and the girls of St. Mar>''s who heard over and over again the same vacation question, "What's going on at Notre Dame?") are just sick and tired of hearing about it and would much rather talk of something more interesting, say, the Mardi Gras or semester exams. 
Why ail the commotion? First of all, the sentimentalists were Sjhocked that a Catholic institution could fire a man with a wife and children on Christmas Eve. .•\ctually, this wasn't the case at all: if the timing was poor, which many people will deny, it ^vas only poor ex post facto in that the general public had its heart­strings twanged. This, however, does not seem to be the main objection to Terry's replacement. In the plethora of anguished cries there is a more insidious and, if left unanswered, a more pernicious criticism: Notre Dame is football-mad, she does not educate. This criticism is false and generally unsubstantiated. Many of the sup­porters who have rushed to our defense are almost as noisy and inane in answering this particular criticism as are our critics in —jnaking it. .As we see it, Notre Dame, in becoming a great educa-Biional institution, must attain in a perfect balance between football which admittedly helps bring in the funds so ncccssar>' for academic progress, and the academic life. 
The period of the late 1950's is one of change and, like any period of change, is apt to be somewhat unstable. Notre Dame is making, we feel, a sincere effort to attain that perfect balance of academic and athletic. This balance is close to being realized 
on campus. 

If we are to believe the newspapers (which perhaps we should not do since the situation has there been blown out of recogniz­able proportions) the situation off campus remains blighted by the dark ages. The Great Firing has been exaggerated to the extent of quoting a fictitious character who, after the firing has been discussed, concludes, "Well, I won't send my son to Notre Dame." That's fine. If his son is as short-sighted and as narrow-minded as his father he probably wouldn't fit in very well anyway. 
.Anyone who knows the histor>- of Notre Dame is cognizant of the fact that from Father Sorin on down the University has not been run by idealists. This is not to say that the administrators have not been men of ideals: they have, in fact, often been men of the highest ideals. They have not been idealistic dreamers who have sat around thinking, "Well, this would be an improve­ment if only we could figure out a %vay of accomplishing it." They have been men who figured out a method and then applied it. Perhaps it is because their methods have been carried out so 
well that their present Football, obviously, improving Notre Dame are many short-sighted who cannot see beyond Sure, it's easier to (a horribly vague term 

 success is so emned and criticized.  is one of these methods — a method of in tola. The real trouble is that there  individuals such as the fellow mentioned,  football.  raise money for academic advancement  which includes many concrete things such 
as a new library and a new auditorium) by "selling" a winning football team. So what! This is not a case of end justifying means because there is nothing inherendy wrong with football. // can be and has been made wrong by those who make it an end in itself. We believe that those who have perverted football in this manner are, in most cases, outside the University. It is they who have made us, the students of Notre Dame, disgusted, not with the replacement itself, but with the whole mess conjured up by the words, "Great Firing." 
The replacement of a football coach can only* "set Notre Dame back twenty (or thirty or forty, depending on which paper you happened to read) years" if the standards of a football-mad portion of the public are accepted by the majority. We can only hope and pray that this is but a small percentage of the entire public and that our real friends (the ones who sa^'e the pennant­waWng type of loyalty for crisp autumn afternoons) continue to support and have faith in Notre Dame as an educational institution of real importance in the future. There have been definite signs that just such a Notre Dame is possible. The last few years have seen encouraging strides in this direction. If this aspect is forgotten, as it seems to have been, then Notre Dame has been permanenUy harmed; if it is remembered, Notre Dame has only replaced a football coach; classes will continue.—R.S. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 19 
apostolate. And, of course, most of those 
involved in this apostolate are Notre Dame men: /j' Vincent J. Giese, '50, editorial director, 


NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
is the author of two Fides books. The 
Apostolic Itch and Patterns for Teenagers. 
He represented the Confraternity of Chris­tian Doctrine at the Second World Con­gress of the Lay .Apostolate in Rome. 
Eugene S. Geisslcr, '41, senior editor, was formerly an instructor in English at 
The Fides Story 
Notre Dame. He is the author of Father of the Family and the editor of other books on the Catholic fann'Iy. | 
Father Bernard G. Murchland, C.S.C.^ co-editor of Apostolic Perspectives, thi. '
Apostolic Publishers Association 
Fides quarterly magazine of documentation, opinion and interpretative reporting, is do­ing graduate work at Notre Dame. 

Celebrates Fifteenth Birthday 
William McCullough, '27, business man­ager, brings to Fides many years experience with the Chr>'sler Corporation. 
THE HISTORY this point on\rard, bookdcalers, other pub­John Evans, '50, textbook director, holds 
lishers and the reading public began to take 

Fifteen years ago a group of student .A.B. and M.A. degrees in histor>' from Notre 
notice of Fides. 
leaders — most of them veterans of World Dame. He is in charge of tcvtbook sales War II — and their priest-chaplain gath­Since 1953 Fides has had a rapid and and acts as Fides field representative. ered in a basement office on the campus of amazing growth. Fides now operates two David Cohen, '55, sales and advertising^ 
fully staffed offices, a business-production 
the University of Notre Dame and began director, is a graduate of Notre Dame'ly* to translate a dream into reality. The stu­office on Chicago's south side and an edi­department of journalism. torial office just off the campus of the 
dents were members of the Young Chris­Father Louis J. Putz, C.S.C, president of tian Students, a form of specialized Cath­
University of Notre Dame, and produces 
the board of directors, founded Fides Pub­olic .-Vction, and their chaplain was Father an average of fifteen new titles each year. lishers. He is a professor of theolog}- at Louis J. Putz, C.S.C, a young theologian at 
The latest projects are a four-year, high 
Notre Dame and the author of The Modern the University who had became interested 
school religion series and a six volume 
Apostle.
thcolog)' for uni­
in Catholic .Action while a seminarian in  program colleges and Other Notre Dame graduates who ser\e versities. 
France. 
in an advisor}- capacity on the Fides board 
Disturbed by the upheaval which the war of directors are: Burnett Bauer, '38, a had brought about and vitally interested in THE PEOPLE South Bend businessman: James V. Cunn­the (then) beginnings of the lay apostolate But the Fides stor>' is more than a record ingham, '44, executive director of the Hyde in the United States, these >'Oug men saw of new offices or a catalog of book titles. Park-Kenwood Community Conference ir^ the need for literature that would ser\'e the It is still the storj- of an idea translated into Chicago; Martin M. McLaughlin, '48, with"'' needs of those engaged in Catholic Action. reality by a group of la>Tnen who have de­the United States embassy in Paris, and They dreamed of a publishing house that dicated their talents to that immense mis-Raymond Durst, '26, Chicago businessman, would be a voice for the lay apostolate in sionarj- effort of the Church: to incarnate vice president of the .Alumni .Association. an age of transition, new hopes, great ex­Christ in all aspects of temporal life. The Fides apostolate of the press has pansion and some confusion. Writers, editors, artists, business and sales never been a "closed circuit." The staff 
The reality that they brought into being personnel have joined hands in the Fides and board of Fides has always been grateful was the .Apostolate Press, soon renamed Fides (pronounced Fec'dez) Publishers .Association. Their venture was launched in 1945 but there were many lean years ahead. 
Because the young publishing house had neither funds nor a permanent headquarters, the operation was kept going by men and women who managed to work part time and publish their books and pamphlets out of the attics and cellars of pri\-ate homes in South Bend. They were' determined to succeed in the highly competitive publish­ing business — without sacrificing cither qualit>- or integrity — so that the voice of Catholic .•\ction would be heard in this countr\'. They worked to make a\-ailable in the United States the literature that was already circulating in Europe and to add to this body of literature the original contri­butions of Americans who were thinking and writing about the apostolic mission of the Church. 
Year-by-year and book-by-book the repu­tation and stature of Fides grew until, in 1953, they brought out the collected pastoral Prof. John D. Donovan of Boston College, (second from left), president of the American letters of Emmanuel Cardinal Suhard under Catholic Sociological Sociely, presents the organization's citation of merit honoring Rev. the title The Church Today. No other Raymond Murray, C.S.C., veteran Notre Dame sociologist. Father Murray was absent due documents from any Church leader have to illness, and the award was accepted in his behalf by Dr. John J. Kane (second from done so much to make the vital need for right), head of Notre Dame's sociology department. Among the speakers at the convention'^.' the lay apostolate known and appreciated opening luncheon were Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., (extreme left), Notre Dame vice as the writings of Cardinal Suhard. From president for academic affairs, and Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne (extreme right). 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
for the help and encouragement given by such people ar Brother Alcuin, C.S.C. of 9th c Ave Maria Press; Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C, '29, Provincial of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross; Mr. Francis A. Fink, '30, of Our Sunday Visitor; Mr. Car! Muckenhim; Mr. Dan Herr of the Thomas 
More Association; Mr. Gerard Carroll, '46, of the Grace Foundation, and all of the other friends who have believed in and supported Fides through the lean years. 
You can help Fides — both materially and spiritually — by becoming a member of the Fides Associates. For more informa-

ST. JOE VALLEY FOOTBALL BANQUET 
(Continued Stuhldreher, quarterback of the Four Horsemen, and Tcrr\' Brennan. Fatlier Joyce refen-ed to the 1958 season as "disappointing, but ups and downs are to be expected in a sport that depends so much on spirit. "Notre Dame will continue to field teams in the proper educational atmos­phere . . . and will be ever mindful that the outcome of some games de­^pends on factors we cannot control. "To the team, especially to the seniors, I would like to say that I know you are disappointed but not disheart­ened. The seniors leave the team with our respect and confidence . . . and to you imderclassmcn, I say that we will be pulling for you and with great effort some day we may again achieve championship status." ^^ Stuhldreher had words of praise, too, for the team and coaches, telling them "you are better off for having played the game. Football today is much more demanding. The responsibilities are greater and today's player accepts them more readily than we did." The for­mer star and coach listed foiu- factors as important to successful football — good players, good coaching, adminis­tration support, and spirit. 
* ' Brennan said, "I offer no alibis for this team and the record. Sure, we had injuries, penalties, bad brea.ks and mistakes, but they are a part of foot­ball . . .' 
"I'm proud of the whole team, es­pecially the senior group, who battled back from a losing sophomore year to two winning seasons." 
" He then cited two seniors as ex­amples of the real Notre Dame spirit 
— Bob \VilIiams and Frank Reynolds. "These were regulars who got shoved aside by other players in their senior year, but when the chips were down and we needed help at Southern Cal, they came back as regidars and did the job. They didn't enjoy a second team role, but they kept on working for the 
Steam." John Carmichael, sports editor of the Chicago Daily News, was the toast-
from page 15) 
master and he also called on South Bend Mayor Edward F. Voorde, Charles Callahan and Ed Krause. Krause also summoned Co-Captains Chuck Puntillo and Al Ecuyer to the microphone for brief speeches. John Mclntyre was chairman of the event. 
BUSINESS NOTES 
Dr. George J. Foss, '35, has been appointed director of .-Vnchor Hocking Glass Corporation's Package Engineer­ing and Research Laboratories in Lancaster, Ohio. Dr. Foss was for­merly with the con­
Dr. Foss sulting manage­
ment firm of Spen­cer R. Stuart & .'Vssociates, Chicago, and director of research and development for a division of Continental Can Company. 
James F. Doyle, .-T-;» Ian '40, recently corn-Its. '^^S pleted 12 years W\^ :^fe i with Pan .-Vmeri­can World Airways, Inc., and four years as division account­ant for the com­pany's Guided Mis­siles Range Divis­ion at Patrick .A.ir Force Base, Flor­ida. He was laud­

ed as the founder of the division's charitable -organization and first treasurer of the Pan .Am Management Club. 
Robert W. Schramm, '44, has joined Southern Ni­trogen Co., Inc., as general manager 
o f Development. Stationed in New York, Bob will be concerned wit h long - term corpor­ate planning and 
Schranmi the evaluation of 
new business op­portunities. Formerly with Union Carbide, Bob makes his home in Mamaronecfc, N. Y., with his wife and three daughters. 

tion on the Fides Associates plan, please write to Fides Publishers, Box 507, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
FOR YOUR LENTEN (AND YEAR­ROUND) READING 
Books from Fides Publishers; 

The Mass: Christians Around the Altar, 
by the Community of St. Severin, $3.25. Marriage Is Holy, edited by H. Caffarel, 
?3.75. The Psalms (Fides translation), §3.95. Key to the Psalms, by Mary Perkins Ryan, 
$3.50. What They Ask About the Church, by Msgr. J. D. Conway, $3.95. The Church Today, by Emmanuel Cardinal Suhard, $4.50. Saint Paul: Apostle of Nations, by Daniel-Rops, $2.75. More Than Many Sparrows, by Leo J. Trese, $2.95. Conversation With Christ, by Peter-Thomas Rohrbach, O.C.D., $1.25. Seeds of the Desert, by Rene A'oillaume, $4.50. Lend Me Your Hands, by Bernard Me>ers, 
M.M., $1.50. The Modern Apostle, bv Louis J. Putz, _ C.S.C., $2.95. .' he Role of the Laity in the Church, by 
Msgr. Gerard Philips, $3.25. Journey To Betlehem, by Dorothy Dohen, 
$2.50. This Way To God, by John Rossi, $2.75. The Faith Explained by Leo J. Trese, $5.95. 
YOU CAN HELP 
NOTRE DAME 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­
ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving" Informing University of your cor­
poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.c. paintings, equipment, books, etc) Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations . in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 21 
CALENDAR 

Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m., Hotel Sheraton, 715 Dela-w-are .Ave., BuiTalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reser\'ed for lunch at K. of C, 506 Dela%vare Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CEO.-\R RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­
nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Araboy, 

N. J. DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Greider's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon, Ye Olde Wayne Club, 1033 Wayne St. (behind the Cass Theatre). ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with 
wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m.. Sept thru June, Erie, Pa. 

FORT LAUDERD.ALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
KANSAS CITY—Weekly luncheons, Thurs­days at Famous Restaurant, Kansas City, Mo. 
MIAMI—^First Thursday (night) of every month at the Urmey Hotel, 34 S.E. 2nd Ave., Downtown Miami. 
OKLAHOMA CITY — First Monday of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theater, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH—Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Tuesday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER —Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12 noon. Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon,, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Tlotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club, Racine. 
TERRE HAUTE —Third Thursday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON — Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washington, D. C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. Wilkes-Barrc, Pa. 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Alabama 
Tlic Xolrc Datnc Ctiib of Alabama livid its Uni-Vftsal Noire Dame Communion Sunday ol»scr\-ancc on Sunday, December 7, with Mass and Communion at St. Paul's Co-Catlu-dral in Birmingham and bnincli immediately following at the Mollon Hotel. FATHER HESBURGH, in Montgomery for Civil Rights Commission hearings, had tf>o crowded a schedule to be atile to attend, hut FATHER BRIAN EGAN. O.S.B., president of St. Bernard College, Selma, was the main attraction. The program was topped ofT hy a showing of the color film '*Xotre Dame" and the "N. D. Football Highlights of 1957-'' Tile program was arranged by Acting Sec­retarj-Treasurer ED DAILEY, M9. 
Aurora 
OWEN K.ANE, re-elected president of the Aurora Club, instituted a scholarship fund crampaign with Vice-President JOHN OROS, Secretary WALLY VOITIK and Treasurer RICHARD REULAND. Tlie campaign was kicked ofT at a stag last fall, with the first place winner enjoying a free week end at the Sontliern California game and the second prize consisting of four tickets to the North Caro­lina contest at South Bend. It turned out to be a ver\- felicitous choice of prizes. 
Baltimore 
At our regular business meeting on September 8, plans were finalized for the Navy-Notrc Dame FfKil­ball Week End on November I. 
General Chairman FRANK HOCHREITER out­lined plans for the week end, which included a pep rally on Friday evening, October 31, at the Emer­

son Hotel and a cocktail party at the Emerson 
following the game on Saturday. Frank had the 
following Club members on his committee: XHce 
Chairman—JIM MURR.AY; Chairman of Arrange­
ments—BILL HART.MAN; Chairman of the Rally— GIL PRENDERGAST; Chairman of the Cocktail-
Partv—BERNIE CRO.VIN; Reception Cliairman^*^ GREG HALPIN; Advertising and Program—FR/VNK MURPHY; Reser\-ations—ji.M BARNETT; Publicity —HAL WILLIAMS; Audio-Visual—BILL MALESH. 
Both the pep rally and cocktail party were a tremendous success. Members of both schools plus local celebrities were on liand at the pep rally which was emceed bv Mr. Harr>- Wismer. MOOSE KR-VUSE gave a ver%- interesting talk. JIM MUT­SCHELLER and DICK S'/A'MANSKI of the Balti­more Colts were also on hand. 
Tlic cocktail parly was attended by 1500-2000 friends and alumni of the two schools and gave cver>'one a chance to renew old acquaintances. 
Here are some highlights from the chairman's^^ report: ^ > 
"1 . Tlie Friday. October 31, Rally was sold out three days before the date, lliere were 612 tickets sold and 50 complimentary tickets given to the press, radio, telex'Ision, and honored guests. The enclosed program will tell you who spoke on the radio show from 9:30 to 10 o^clock. At the last moment Admiral Charles L. Melson, Superintend­ent of the Academy, developed lar^'ngltls and -sent in his place Captain William F. Bringle, Com­mandant of Midshipmen. 
"2. The Cocktail Parly on llie mezzanine of the Emerson Hotel had to be closed down at 7:30 due to the \-ast mob of 1751. We still had close to 400 tickets to sell but the crowd was not sufTicIenlly 
BALTIMORE—A standing ovation is accorded to the president of the University, Rc%-. Theodore M. Hcsburgh, CAC , '38, at the Baltimore Club's Navy Game Rally in the Hotel Emerson Ballroom last October 31. Left to right: Wecb Ewbank, head coach of the Balti­more Colts; "Moose" Krause, '34, director of athletics; Capt. William F. Bringle, \J.SJN.j0j commandant of midshipmen at the U. S. Naval Academy; Franklyn C. Hochreitcr, '35,' general chairman; Father Hesburgh, and Harry Wismer, A.B.C. sportscaster. The hands in 
motion at right belong to Club President Francis J. Herb. 
BUFFALO—"Father Si Gardner Day" was last sunnner to honor departing Buffalo 
(laid and wt* were stuck because people did not leave. 
"3 . We have made M>me\vliere between $2400 and $2500 clear on rlie week end, the bulk of which will conic to the University either for the Founda­tion or our local club scliolarsliip fund or both on a split basis." 
A Communion breakfast was held by the Club 

Hu n December 7 at Loyola Collesc. After ^fass in the chapel, breakfast -was ser\"ed in the Loyola cafeteria. The program was opened by Club Cliap­lain. FATHER MURPHY, and the principal speaker was Mr. Francis X. Gallagher. local attorney and Delegate-elect to the Maryland House of Delegates, who spoke on "Tlic Catholic Cliurch in the United Stales Today." The affair was attended by about 50 members and families. 
Tlie Notre Dame Glee Club has scliediiled a local appearance some time in April at Mount St. .Agnes College. 
—AVILLL\M V. RYAX, Secy. 
Boston 

W Tlic Boston Club closed its Scholarship Fund Drive with a drawing at the University Club last September 30. In October a gamble paid ofl* in a hairbieadth victor>- over Duke to celebrate iWlh the Annual Football Victor\' Dance. It took place on Saturday. October 18.' 1958. at the ^LI.T. Faculty Club in Cambridge. Jack Heniiesscy*s or­chestra provided (he mmic as in the past. .And a Notre Dame monogram blanket was ofTered as a door prize. HENRY MARR was chairman of the event. 
BufFalo 

^•) The Buffalo Alumni Club began the winter and early spring program with the annual family com­munion breakfast. Mass was celebrated by our Chaplain FATHER BARATO at St. Joseph's Ca­thedral chapel, followed by breakfast and program at the Hotel Nfarkeen. Chairman TONY ROCCO and his assistant FRtVNK GAGLIONE had a ver>­interesting program for the children, while the par­ents enjoyed the adult portion of the program in the hotel dining room. The group Included about 150 men. women and children. 
The Buffalo Club's annual holiday dance was held at the Hotel Statler-Hilton on Dec. 26, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BOLr\ND headed the committee for the Alumni and .Alumwives. Tlie Buffalo Club on the Campus was !n charge of the program. They 

• -elected the queen for the evening. This annual holiday dance sponsored Jointly by the three brandies of the local Notre Dame folks was as iLsual the highlight of the holiday dance season. President JACK LaVIGNE and Mr. and Mr^. Bo­
 celebrated with a stas; outing on Grand Island  Club Chaplain Rev. Simeon Gardner, C.S.C. 
land were particularly grateful to the following members of the club for their efforts in behalf of the dance. .Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN DOERR, Mr. and .Mrs. FR.\NK GAGLIONE, .Mr. and .Mrs. PHIL. FAUST, .Mr. and .Mrs. HARRY QUINN, .Mr. and Mrs. HENRY BALLING, JR., -Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN FOGART\% .Mr. and Mrs. Donald Jacobi and the program director GERALD WEBSTER. 
R.-\LPH ELSE and his scholarship committee have been meeting regularly and have presented a long range plan to pei-peiitale the awarding of a local schi>larship at Notre Dame. 
St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute won their third leg on the Notre Dame Alumni ftwtball trophy and took permanent possession of the cup. The football committee headed by John Novak is currently seek­ing a donor for the new trophy to be awarded the future Catholic High SCII<H>I Champions for West­ern New York. 
The Alumwives Branch of the club entertained our members in the village of Kenmore, N. Y., with a square dance. Sons and daughters of the mem­bers were invited to this affair. Ever>'one learned the "square** and had a ver>" excellent time. 
The results of ihe Buffalo Club closed telecast of the Notre Dame x-s. Army football game were announced at a recent meeting. .About twelve hun­dred people attended the telecast at Kleinhan's Music Hall. The game came over beautifully, a real artistic success. . . Financially??? we'll get even on the next one. 
JOHN DOERR and MAURY QUINN xvere co-chairmen of a *'Dulcir' party after (he N. D.-Cani­sius game in Buffalo Feb. 7. Before the game the Father-Son Basketball Luncheon was handled bv JOH.V ENDERS and JACK BOL.\ND. 
—DONALD G. JACOBI, Sec^-. 
Calumet District 
Tlie Club held its annual corporate Communion in observance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday in late November, two weeks ahead of the general observance, because of its good fortune in being able to have His Excellence*, .Andrew G. Grutka, Bishop of Gary, as principal speaker for the brunch following Noon Mass at St. Thomas More Church. Minister. Ind. A large attendance included families and frientU of members. REV. THO.M.AS J. .McDONAGH, head of .Notre Dame's Department of Economics, represented the Univer­sitv. Committee for the arrangements included Club Secretan.- BENEDICT D.VXKO, DICK BE.V­NE, JERRY S.MITH and DICK GAUTHIER. 
Tlie annual Chiistmas Dinner-Dance was held on December 29, 1958, at Teibel's Restaurant in Scher­er\-ille, Ind. Treasurer DAVE OGREN was chair­man of the committee, which also included THOM­AS CLIFFORD and L.AWRENCE GALL;\GHER. 
Pat DeMurc's orchestra provided music for the holiday affair. 
Canton 
TItirty men of the Canton Club of Notre Dame 
received Holy Communion at the 8 a.m. Mass on 
Dec. 7 at St. Peter's Catholic Church in Canton. 
Following the Moss they met for breakfast In 
the banquet room of the Holiday Itm Motel. The 
Rev. Father Robert Sfara, assbtant pastor of St. 
Joan of Arc Catholic Church in Rcedurban, was 
guest speaker. 
A report of the years activities and financial 
status was given. Plans for the Holiday Ball (held 
Dec 26) were dbcusscd. Preliminary plans for a 
proposed Communion dinner following an evening 
Mass at one of the churches In the area and the 
Universal Notre Dame Night were outlined for the 
members. 
Officers expressed their pleasure with the turn­
out which saw 50 per cent of the membership on 
hand. 
—ED NLVCHUGA, Secy.-Treas. 
Cedar Rapids 
O^'er 125 persons attended the pre-Iowa game Get-Together held at the Sheraton Montrose Hotel, Cedar Rapids, Iowa", on November 21, 1958. .MOOSE KRxVUSE, HERB JONES, JACK ZILLY and REV. PHILIP .MOORE, C.S.C, spoke about the team and the University. JOE DOYLE, South Bend Tribune sports editor, presented a summary of the season. J. Mullen of the Chicago Sun-Times abo said a few words. WILLIAM SCH.MITT of the 1909 team was introduced to the guests. 
Plans to attend the 1959 pre-garac Get-Together, 
to be held in Cedar Rapids next November 20. 
For the first time in the N. D.-Iowa scries the 
Irish stayed at Cedar Rapids. When the team ar­
rived they were greeted by over 100 alumni and 
friends. Governor Loveless of Iowa welcomed the 
team to the Tall Corn State. 
Tlie Cedar Rapids Club holds a regular Com­
munion Breakfast meeting on the fourth Sunday 
of even months held after 8:00 a.m. Mass at alter­
nating parishes. The 9:00 a.m. breakfast meeting 
Is held at Bishop's Restaurant. 
0\*er 60 persons attended the first annual family 
picnic held last summer at Bevcr Park, and an 
.August 24 Communion Breakfast ser\"ed as a fare­
well for eleven students returning to Notre Dame 
last fall. 
—JOSEPH C. CREEN, '51, Pres. 
Central California 
At a meeting held on September 5, 1958, Presi­dent DR. JOHN WTLLIA.M FRYE, *42, gave a de­tailed account of his trip back to the campus to attend meetings of the Council of Club Presidents. 

.After his account of what the other clubs are doing for the University in a monetary _ way, it was decided by the members that, because of the small size of the club, we would become primarily a social organization and limit our actlx-Itics to a Communion Sunday, Universal N. D. Night and a ladles' affair of some t>T)e. /Vn effort w-ill be made to secure academic scholarslups for worthy boys In the local area. 
There was also a discussion of whether, since Central California's program was social, the presi­dent should be sent back to attend meetings at the UnuTrsity. It was suggested that the transpor­tation expense javed by the University might be credited to the club's donation to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Election of officers for the next two years was held. ROBERT McGLYNN, '54. was named presi­dent, and HAROLD .A. BAIR, '29, is permanent secretary*. 
Present at the meeting were MICH^VEL KEYES, 

•23; JOHN GROVE, '32; JA.MES PAGLLVSOTTI, '36; DR. WxVDE BEUCLER, *50; DR. JOHN W. FRYE, '42; JACK BAIR, '58, and BOB McGL\'NN, •54. 
—HAROLD A. BAIR, '29, Sec>-. 
Central New Jersey 

We held an election on Wednesday, November 12 and all officers from last year were re-elected. In addition, ED SADOWSKI, '50, was eleced vice-president and KEN BUCK, *55, was elected Mem­bership Secreiar>'. Subsequently, our corresponding secretary, JACK DOYLE, found that he would be unable to continue because of other commitments. Jack has devoted a great deal of time to the club In the past, and we'll miss his services. The offi-
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 23 

cers of tilt: club appointed JOE SEPKOSKI, *50, to take his place. 
Here's our lineup as it now stands: President. DAN GRACE, '51; Vice-President. JOE SIMONS, '44; VHce-President, ED SADO\\'SKI, '50; Secretary-, KEN BUCK, '55; Scc^cta^^-, JOE SEPKOSKI, '50, and Treasurer, TONV GIUFFRE, *32. 
Our 1959 Calendar lines up this way: 

February* 11—General membership meeting; April II—Uni\-ersal Xotrc Dame Night; June 10—1959 graduate night; September 9—Student fare%vell; No­vember 11—Election of officers; December 13—Com­munion Breakfast; December 26—Christmas Dance. 
—DAN GRACE, Prcs. 

Central New York (Syracuse) 
On November 20, 1958, the Notre Dame Club of Central New Vork paid tribute to Past Presi­dent ED KENEFAKE at a going away party for Ed and his wife, Annamarte. 
About tv\enty.five couples attended a dinner for the Kencfakes at the BelJevue Country- Club. Ed and his family left us for Lynchburg, Va., around Januaiv 1, 1959. 
J. GARVEY JONES, President of the Club, pre­sented a scrf>ll and a set of Notre Dame glasM.'s to the Kenefakes. Ed's support will be sorely missed by our Club. 
On December 7, 1958, the Notre Dame Club of Central New York held its annual Communion Breakfast. Despite extremely bad weather, appro?ci­mately one Iiundrcd Alumni, wives, and clilldren attended the breakfast at the Drumlins Countr\' Club. 
A private Mass at !iosar\- Chapel preceded the breakfast. VERY REV. ROBERT SULLIVAN, '40, Assistant Chancellor of the Dioce^e of Syracuse, celebrated the Mass and spoke at the breakfast. Monsignor Sullivan gave a vcr>' inspiring talk. 
.Arrangements for the breakfast were made by Chairman JACK A^ARNEV, '53. During Monsignor Sullivan's addre).s, movies were shown for the chil­dren in an adjoining room. G.ARVEY JONES, *52, closed proceedings by announcing the Club sclicdule for the coming months. 
Members of the Central New Vork Club recited the Rosarv- last November 12 for VERY REV. JO­SEPH B. TOOMEY, '2G, one of the area's most distinguished .•Uumtii, who died November 10, 1958. in Syracuse. Wc also had a delegation at Mon­signor Toomey's funeral November 13. 
On Oct. 4, 1958, the Club held a smoker at BOB aVSEV's in DeWitt, N.Y,, attended by about 60 members. Refreshments were ser\'ed and a draw­ing A\-as held for Army S^unc tickets. All this ac­ti\ity was launched at a meeting last Sept. 18 which featured a showing of N. D. Football liighlights of 1937. 
—J. G.ARVEY JONES, Prcs. 

Chattanooga 
llic Chattanooga Xotn: Daniu Alumni Club gath­ered at tlie K. of C. hall to \-icw the Xolre Danie­lowa football game on TV. An election of officers for 1959 was held follou-ing the game. 
Officers elected were: President, HERBERT HAILE, JR., Vice-Picsident, .MATT R. McINER-NY; Secretarv-Treasurcr, HENRY T. MyVDDEN, and Entertainment Cliairman, EDWARD F. DAVIS. 
Sunday, Dec. 7, a Communion Breakfast was held. Tlie gn>up heard ^fass at Our Lady of the Mount on Lookout Mountain and had breakfast at the Fairyland Club aflenvard. The JI.M BURKHtlRTS, PAT CROWES, ED DAVISES, JERRY EVERTS, HERB HAILES, PAT KELLYS, HANK .MAD­DENS, .MATT McINERNYS, TO.M OWENS, RAY SIEXERS and JOHN TERRELLS were present. 
The club also planned to get together for a dance at Our l.ady of Perpetual Help parish Dec. 27. 
—HE.NRY T. .MADDE.\, '51, Sec>-.-Treas. 

Chicago 
The Chicago Club's annual Notre Dainc Com­munion Breakfast was held Sunday, December 14, 1958. ^lass was at St. Peter's main diurcli at 10:00, followed by breakfast at the LaSalle Hotel. FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, executive vice-presi­dent of the University, was tlic speaker. WILLIAM 
F. WHITE and EDMUND J. ORR sened as co-chairmen for the event. 
A large number of Chicago Alumni saw the Na\y game last November via closed circuit tele­\ision at the Sheraton Hotel. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Cincinnati 
Reporting on the activities of tlic Cincinnati Club: The Club sponsored a picnic for the incoming freshmen and their fathers. Wc had nineteen out of the twenty-one freshmen from the Cincinnati area, accompanied by their fathers, and over one hundred ^Vlumni in attendance. There was a soft­ball game with a steak fry following. 
Tlie Christmas Dance under the cliairmanship of 

JERRY MAHON was a big success both financially 
and attendance wise. There was a Cocktail Party 
prior to the dance with one hundred and twenty-
five patrons present. Tlits is our annual Scliolar­
ship Dance and the results were excellent. 
The Club also sponsors a Toy Drive for needy 

Children at Christmas time and this vear it was 
headed by ED MERS.\LVN and JOHN FEAD. Due 
to the help of the local stores, scliools and .Mumni 
wc collected over eleven hundred toys. 
Since the N.C..A.A. Coaclies Convention returned 

to Cincinnati, we again had a cocktail party and 
buffet for the coaches, managers, etc., of the x'ari­
ous universities. The party was headed by Howard 
Rohan. Tlic entire Xotrc Dame group from the 
University was in attendance headed by FATHER 
JOYCE. We also displayed a trophy that is to 
be given annually to the outstanding local football 
team. 
Tliis brings the Cincinnati news up to date. —THO.MAS D. GROTE, Scc>-. 

Cleveland 
Over 100 members and guests turned out for the testimonial dinner honoring the appointment of the .MOST REV. PAUL J. HALLINAN as Bishop of Charleston. South Carolina. Bishop Hallinan, a graduate of the Class of '32, was formerly the Na­tional Director of Newman Clubs. A native of PaJncsville, Ohio, the new Bishop has been a Cleve­land diocesan priest since his ordination. 
Arrangements for the dinner were handled bv DENNIS O'NEILL and EDDIE KILLEEN. Spe^ cial guests were the Reverend Fathers JEROME WILSON, JOHN WILSON, and FIUVNK GART­L,-VND, C.S.C., all of Notre Dame and former classmates of the new Bishop. JIM COLLINS, '32, ably Iiandlcd the toastmastcr duties. M5GR. ED­WARD SEWARD, Chancellor of the Cleveland Diocese and also a Notre Dame graduate, was guest speaker. 
Tlic cfTorts of co-chairmen JOHN FURIN and PAT CANNON put this year's annual Scholarship raffle over the financial top with a late surge of ticket returns. The raffle, held at Ruhr's Restaur­ant, with a paid week end at the Amiy-Notre Dame game as first prize, was won by Fred Frey, an assistant county prosecutor from Cleveland. TIic largest sellers of tickets were PAT CANNY, DICK MILLER, and PAT CANNON. The proceeds from the raffle should insure another large contribution 
lo the Scholarship fund in 1959. 
On December 29, at the Carter Hotel, the an-^j 

nual Christmas Dance was held, to the music of ' 
George Duffy and hb orchestra. A complete sell­
out was recorded for the first time in years.. More 
than one Iiundred students and their dales were 
the guests of the Club. Congratulations on a 
splendid job well done to BILL SKELLY and BOB 
WALLACE, co-chairmen of the dance. 
Preparations were made at a meeting a short time ago for this year's Foundation Drive for tfic Greater Cleveland area. Present were JOHN MAC­C\ULEY from the Notre Dame Foundation, and co-chairmen KARL MARTERSTECK and JOHN REIDY. To all our readers: please be cooperative and helpful to the captains who will call upon you in the near future. We intend to keep Cleveland _ No. 1 in the nation again this year, so be geii-'z5 erous. 
On Januarj- 22 we had a general business meet­
ing for members and wives, and between February 
13-15, our annual week-end Retreat at St. Stanislaus. 
The following events still remain on the calendar: 
March 15—Rockne Communion Breakfast. 
April 23—Univei-sai Notre Dame Night and elec­
tion of oflicers. 
Connecticut Valley 
Here arc a few items concerning the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley, Hartford and vi­cinity. . ^ 
Club officers for the current year arc: President,^ hOV BERGERON; Vice-IVwident, DWK CURRY; Treasurer. BILL WAELDNER, and Secrcur%-, BOB DALTON. 
Three highlights of the year to date arc: One. Welcoming dinner for incoming freshmen from the Hartford area. This event was chairnianned by LEN KILIAN and FLOYD "UNCLE HENRY" RICHARDS. Floyd incidentally, is doing an excel­lent job on his own program for kiddies on WTIC­TV. Two. A Fall meeting for Notre Dame men and their wives. Guest speaker was FATHER THOMAS LAUTON, C.S.C., Principal of Notre Dame High Scliool in Bridgeport, Conn. Three. Annual Communion breakfast on December 13 at Statlcr-Hihon, chairmanned bv BILL WAELDNER.^ 
Club Chaplain is FATHER JAMES A. CURRY,*^' son of TOM CURRY, '14. 
All Notre Dame men now in the Hartford area arc urged to contact me so thai they can be placed on our maih'ns list and thus he kept aware of all club activities. Tliey can do so by phoning Hartford-West Hartford Adams 3-5167. 
—BOB DALTON, *49, Secy. 

Dallas 
In October, 1938, there was an action to con-
CALUMET REGION—^The Communion brunch of the Calumet Club was held last Novem­ber 23 at St. Thomas More Church, Munster, Indiana. At the head table (1. to r.) are: Mrs. William J. O'Connor and Club President Bill O'Connor, '51; Bishop Andrew Grutka^ of the Gary Diocese, principal speaker; Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Unii-crsity trustee, and Rev. Robert Weis, host pastor. Rev. Thomas McDonagh (barely visible to the left of Mrs. 
O'Coimor) ivas the campus representative. 
CENTRAL NE^V YORK—Mr. and Mrs. Eduin KenefaKe, '34 (left), guests of honor at a going-away party in Syracuse last fall, admire a scroll presented by President J. Garvey A;Joncs, '52, and Mrs. Jones, commemorating Past President Kencfakc's scr\-ice to the Central 
New York Club. The Kcncfakcs now live in Lynchburg, Va. 
tribute $100 to the S.M.U. Stistciitatioii Fund iit firaihudc for wsiiy courtvsics tvicndfd by the iinj­ventity to the Dallas Club, Xotrc Danic Alumni and Catholic students in general. 
On November 9, 1958, there was a Coniinunion Dinner for members and wives following 5;30 Mass at Dallas Univcrsitv. Guest speaker was PROF. EUGENE C. CURTSINGER, '48. of the Dallas U. faculty. MARIA* O'CONNOR was chairman. 
Members gathered for a T\' party at the Lakc­

f
iwood C«untr>- Club Nox'embcr 22 and caught the nationally telecast N.-D.-Iowa game. FRANK FINN handled (he program . 
Dallas clubbers cheered the election of WALTER FLEMING to the national Alumni .-Wsoctation Board of Directors. 
The Holiday Dance was held December 27, 1958, at the Dallas Country Club, semi-formal, with music by Fletcher Hereford's band. Chairman D. 
H. COWDIN, JR., was assisted bv JL\I WHITE and SAM A. WING, JR. 
Dayton 
On September 29 our Club had an excellent crowd at a social meeting held at the Recreation 
• Clubhouse of Inland Manufacturing Division, Gen­eral Motors Corporation, a feu* miles north of Dayton. The Clubhouse, a vcr>* ct>mfortablc place, it-as made available to us through llic cITorts of our Mce-Presidenl, JACK O'BRIEN, m, who is a sales executive at Inland. At the meeting the draw­ing for the four Army game tickets and traveling expenses was held and the winner was one of our own members, JACK LVNCH of Tro>-, Ohio. Later in the evening free beer and sandwiches were served and the members enjoyed viewing football films covering the vears 1943 to 1954. What a backfield that 1943 team had! ANGELO BERTELLI and JOHNNY LUJACK at quarterback; CREIGHTON 
^MILLE R at left lialfback; JULES RYKOVICH at right halfback; and JI.M MELLO at fullback. Hope the new football coach is able to entice men of that caliber to the campus. 
Our annual Club Communion was held on De­cember 7 at the University of Dayton Chapel with a go<id attendance of about 50 members. FATHER LEI.MKUHLER, celebrant at the Mass, delivered a cliallftiging and tliought-provok'tng sermon on the need for Catholic men, especially those trained in a Catholic University, to exhibit leadership by con­sistently following a Catholic philosophy in all of their activities including their business pursuits. Following an excellent breakfast at the Gibbons Hotel, BROTHER PAUL SCHAEFER, C.S.C, an 
tAlumnus of Notre Dame, gave a most interesting talk and showed color slides of missionar>- work along the .Amazon River of Brazil where he has lived for the past 7 years seri'ing as director of a Catholic school for boys. 
Our Notre Dame Club, headed by PAUL Lf\M-MERSj and the Women's xVuxiliary, headed by Mrs. Frank McBrtdc, co-sponsored the annual Christmas dinner-dance at the Miami Valley Countr>' Club on December 27. It was a gala afTair, but it isn't likely that any of our members will be giving Fred Astaire senous compettuon, with the possible ex­ception of FRvVNK (PANTHER BOY) McBRIDE, '50. 
A brief investigation was made to determine which Notre Dame Club member has the most children. Pieli'minarv results are as follows: 5 chil­dren—DICK BOHN, '39; WALT GEREND, '39; BILL HOYNE, '41; and ED STEINER, '44; 6 chil­dren—our energetic Club President, PAUL LtVM­.\IERS, '48; JIM McGRATH, '41; JOE NAUMAN, '49; STEVE QUINN. '43; and HER.MAN ZITT, '48; 8 children—the Grand Champion of the Club, BILL HENKE, '41. 
HARRY E. WOR.MAN ^»^ recently appointed general agent for the Connecticut Mutual Life In-AUrance Company, scr\*ing an 8-county area with headquarters in Dayton. Harry has been in the insurance business since 1951 and is a life member of the .Million Dollar Round Table, highest pro­duction organization of the N'attonal Association of Life Underwriters. 
Following is a list of members who have joined our Club in the past icvr months: JOHN YOUNG, '49; DR. CHARLES GIULL^NI, '50; DR. THEO­DORE GARLx\ND, '53; WILLIA.\f BARLOU', JIM BRITT. GER^XLD GALLIGER, CHARLES KLEE, WILLIAM L.VUTERBACH, JOHN MARCHAL, .MIKE O'CONNOR, ROBERT POWELL, ROBERT RE.\LM, and ROBERT WALCZY, '58. 
—WALTER J. GEREND, '39, Scc>-. 

Dearborn 
How loyal can you be? Ask JERRY SARB; bet­ter vet, ask his wife Pat. They stopped off for Wino at AVayno's (Rita and JERRY WAYNO) on the way to pick up little Sarb No. 8. 
Even without such excitement Mrs. JACK E. COURTNEY'S and Mrs. TO.M DORE's party would have been a huge success. Their chip dip disappeared, and their lunch was devoured. While their husbands talked business, snow at South Bend and TERRY BRENNAN, Mrs. GEORGE TOBIN, MIS. R.\Y DCFAUW, .Mrs. JAMES KING, Mrs. L.\RRY DOL^\N, Mrs. LEE LaR.-\CQUE and Mrs. DICK KING compared babies and children. Dis­cussion stopped just long enough for PETE KER­NAN and JACK U*. COURTNEY to win the door prize. 
Oh, by the way, for those who are worried, DR. JACK FISHER (an O.B. man) was there and kept his practiced eye on Pat. 
Doris and JOE BYRNE were co-chairmen of our seventh annual Dinner-Dance held at Westwood Inn. 
A bcrf tenderloin dinner OUT with no dishes 'tii, 
do made it a must for most of the wives. What" 
husband could say no? Certainly RUSS LONGON, 
JERRY GASS, ED SNYDER, JOHN FISH and 
those husbands at the Wino couldn't. Judging from 
the contented smiles on all faces as couples danced 
by, all were happy they had come. 
—JI.M KING, Secy.-Treas. 

Decatur 
Our second annual "Fall Frolic" was held at the '"Figure 8" barbecue room on October 15. BERNARD ^L\RTY and BOB OHL were co-chair­men and the event came off very smoothly. Our entire slate of officers was re-elected for another term at this affair. They remain for another yean BERNARD AfARTY, President; BOB OHL, Vice-President; GEORGE HUBBARD, Treasurer; MILT BE^\UDINE, Sccrctarv; and BERNIE LEVER­GOOD, SY IL\PIER and BUZZ MORAN, Direc­tors. 
Our first board meeting of the new season was held on November 10 at the home of BERNARD MART^*. Our activities for 1959 were planned for at this time. Tlie plan Is similar to last year's, with the first event coming on March 17, 1958 — an appropriate St. Patrick's Day dance. BUZZ MORAN will ramrod this spectacle and he Is fore­casting one of the most gala events In Decatur for '59. This will be held at the St. Nicholas Tun­nel Room. It will be open to alumni, studcDts, and friends. We hope to sec some out-of-town alumni there, especially from our neighboring cities — Springfield, Bloomington, Champaign and Urbana. Anyone Interested can i^taln further information by dropping me a line at my new address —* 76 East Court Drive, Decatur. 
Our Notre Dame Communion Breakfast was held on December 14, The 8;00 a.m. Mass was cele­brated by RE\'. FATHER LEBRETON (our chap-Iain) at St. Thomas Church. Breakfast Immediately followed and Father Lebreton presented a most informative and Interesting talk. SY RAPIER was cliairman for the breakfast and came through as expected with a well-run affair. Over 50 .'Mumni and their families were present. 
GEORGE HUBBARD has the added duties of 

Club Historian. 
FATHER LEBRETON has finished coaching Si. 

Thomas to its most successful football season in 
many years. He says they definitely had some 
Notre Dame material on their squad. 
JOHN FOY has left the teaching and coaching 

profession to take a position with the Prudential 
Life Insurance Company. IVhilc he will definitely 
be missed by the faculty and students at Lakevlew 
High, we are happy that he is still with us in 
Decatur. 
—MILT BE.\UDINE, Secy. 

Denver 
.\ night at old Notre Dame via radio was the pleasure of the Denver Notre Dame Club through the courtesy of Denver radio station KHOW. About sixty members and their families heard a direct broadcast of a sports rally before the game from the Notre Dame Ficldhouse- Of great In­terest were the special messages to our Denver Club from .MOOSE KRAUSE and TERRY BRENN.AN. The broadcast was held at the radio station's audi­torium with the owner and officials of the station, representatives of the sponsors who bring us the Irish football games, the superinlendent of parochial schools and other invit«rd guests present. The film on Notre Dame, a business meeting and refresh­ments followed. 
The members of the Club were guests of the local Iowa University .-VlumnI Club at the Security Life Building Penthouse for the national telecast of the Notre Dame - Iowa game. Notre Dame farts in this Mile-High City and In the Rocky Mountain region were cheered with the announcement that Notre Dame and the Air Force Academy have en­tered into a home-and-home football series which will bring the Irish here m about 1962, to the one geographic area in which Notre Dame teams have not played. Evidently Notre Dame is not afraid of the altitude as arc other teams which woidd not enter into a home-and-home scries with the young Air Force team. The A.F. moved to its new .Academy sixty miles south of Denver after spend­ing their first three years In Denver. Now local fans, who for years had to travel a minimum of a thousand miles to the Campus, Texas or California, will sec games twenty miles from Denver at the Colorado University Stadium. 
The Denver Club joined in the Universal Notre Dame Spiritual Bouquet to Father Hesburgh as 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 25 
Eastern Illinois 
CINCINNATI—A few of the NoUe Danie sports luminaries, gathered for the N.C.A.A. Coaches Convention, join Cincinnati Clubbers around a huge trophy which the club has voted to award annually to the high school football tcant designated champions by vote of local sports writers and broadcasters. Scene was a cocktail party and buffet for visiting coaches. Clockwise from left: Howard Roman, chairman of the event; Cincinnati Past President Bob Leonard; Joe Kuharich, N.D. head football coach; Father Joyce, N.D. execu­tive \-ice president and athletic chairman; Club President Steve Hcckin; Past President Wally Nienabcr; Horseman Harrj- Stuhldreher, and Ed Krause, N.D. athletic director. 
the continuing leader of the University for the conliaued success of Xotrc Dame. In an attempt to get as many members together in a group for tlie Mass and Communion as possible, the Club attended an evening Mass on December 8, 1958, at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, which uas celebrated by FATHER GEORGE EVANS of Notre Dame. Tiic Mass was followed by a Com­munion Supper and Ladies' Night at a local supper club where the club enjoyed a smorgasbord dinner and dancing. Many alumni and their wives partici­pated in this tribute and religiuus exercise as well as having a fine social evening witli tlieir ladies. ART GREGORY and CARL EIBERGER were co-chair­men. 
The Scholarship Committee has been busy work­ing on this year's scliolarsbip award. Contacting the high scliools and pastors Is a big job. Tlic Club is being assisted by the local superintendent of parochial schools, F.ATHER WILLIAM JONES. This Committee is headed by TOM GARGAN and FRANK CONWAY and includes BOB FLYNN, AL 0'.MEAR.\, TONY POJ.MAN and CARL EIBER­GER. Our president, JIM SHEEHAN, has been adding lo hb fine direction of the club by attend­ing all tlie Scliolarshtp Committee meetings, ll has only been through lits leadership that many of the recent actlxitics enjoyed by tlic Club have been arranged. 
Plans for the annual Christmas Alumni and Stu­dent Dance were made fay the cliairman, JL\f COUGHLIN. Tlic dance u ^ held at the swank Wolkhurst Country- Club on December 26, 1958. Tlie club enjoyed tlic fine separate accommoda­tions of a room, bar, and its own large orclicstra. The dance was ver>- well attcndctl by most of the present students at Notre Dame and tlieir dates. In addition tlic students' local friends and many members of tlie Alumni Club were in attendance at this annual Studcnt-.AIumni gel-tDgetlicr. Tlic current president of the Colorado Club at Notre Danie is RONNIE TELK, who was recently hon­ored in the pai;cs of the .A.LUMNUS for his hero­ism in saving the life of a baby. 
—CARL EIBERGER, '52, Sec>-. 

Detroit 
In tbe last issue wc advised we would announce tJic winners of the prizes given at tlic "Sports Night" held on September 8. at the Veterans' Memorial Building. Tlie Color Television set was won by TOM SHEEHAN, and some of the addi­tional prizes «erc \wn by \V, CROm', CHARLES 
F. RODGERS, LEON HART, and BOB CRONIN. Congratulations! 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Committeemen for this event were GUS CIFEL­LI, BOB CRONIN and LEON HART. About 500 enthusiastic football fans turned out. Many Fresh­men and their Fathers were welcomed. Film high­lights of the '57 season were shown, and MOOSE KRi\USE was the guest speaker for the evening. 
Tlie Octvhcr activity for tliis year was the suc­
cessful football trip organized by JIM BYRNE, 
held on Saturday, October 18, when 400 boarded 
the train to watch Notre Dame play Duke. 
Monthly luncheons have been revived and arc held on the first Monday of cverv- month. Recent lunclicons have been at the Motor Bar of the Sheraton-Cadillac and Yc Olde Wayne Club. 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit's annual Com­munion Breakfast was held on December 7 and was attended by 100 members and their wives. The Mass was offered at 9:00 a.m. in St. .-Vlovsius Church by FATHER JERO.ME J. WILSON, C.S.C., Vice-President In Charge of Business .MTairs for the University. Father Wilson was guest speaker at the Breakfast held in the Coral Room of the Pick-Fort Shelby Hotel, Chairman BILL CARROLL, and Co-Chaimian PETER KERNAN made all ar­rangements. Father Wilson gave a verv- timely message on the Confraternity of Our Lady of Lourdes. Some of the .Alumni attending were JOE &\REY, JUDGE HARRY KELLY, JOHN PANEL­LI (and two potential fullbacks), JOHN W. BREN­NAN, ART CRONIN, NOR.M FREDERICKS, 
TO.M DORE, JOHN HENRY, and numerous other members. 
The Dclroit Club's annual retreat was held Feb­ruar\' 13-15 at the Manresa Jesuit Retreat House, Blooinfield Hills, Midi. MATT. CARRIGAN and JACK BREEN did the planning. 
.Mr. JERRY ASHLEY, first President of the Notre Dame Club of Rome, advi&cs that plans arc being formulated lo organize a pilgrimage to Rome for a 19- to 21-day trip, in a package deal, spon­sored by the Notre Dame Club of the Eternal City, Rome. Plane fare round trip would be about $400 per person, and the whole package deal for the 
three uccks \%r>uld run Irom $800 to $900. Of the 
three weeks, one week will be spent in Rome as guests of the Notre Dame Club of Rome, lours arc being arranged by the Secretary of the Club, VINCE McALOON, an ultimate tourist guide. The remaining time can be spent in Europe visiting one's own preference. For more information, con­tacts can be made through Mr. JI.M ARMSTRONG ai the University or Mr. ED ROXEY of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. This will be a wonderful trip, and cver>'one is urged to go. 
—DON HERRON, Sccv-. 

Since the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Illinois lias not submitted reports for the last two issues of the ALUMNUS, the activities of the Club for tlie past several months are listed in this account. 
New officers elected for the 1958-59 term were as [ollo\ysi President, ERNEST F. SEDLALAYR, '44; Vice-President, LESLIE HAHNE, JR., M9; Treasurer, ROBERT WICKHAM. '54, and Secrc­tar>-, W. ROBERT MORRIS, '49. 
At the dinner meeting held on Universal Notre Dame Night last April, LESLIE C. HAHNE, JR., was presented with the Notre Dame Man of the Year .Award in recognition for his outstanding work for the Club and his community. 
One of the highlights of the year was the annual football trip. Approximately sixty persons made the trip to Notre Dame for the Duke Game. After the game, dinner v\-as enjoyed at the Knights of Columbus Club at Logansport, Ind. 
On December 7 approximately 12 members of the Club observed Universal Communion Sunday at St. Paul's Church in Danville with breakfast after­wards. 
BRIEFS: Sympathy to EDWARD LAYDEN, JR., on the death of his wife, Catherine Jean, May 3, 1958. Congratulations on the marriage of WM. BRANDON, '57, to Miss Nancy Little, May 31, 1958 at St. Tliomas Aquinas Church in Chicago. 
—ROBERT MORRIS, SCQ . 

El Paso 
The Notre Dame Club of El Paso held its bien­nial election on October 27, 1958. The follouing slate of officers was elected: President, JAMES S. RY.AN, '53; Vice-President, DR. E. J. ETTL, '41; Secretary-Treasurer, EDWARD T. JENNINGS, '53, and the .Mumni Foundation Chairman is W. GOR­NUN BROCK, '49. 
Tlic clubs planned a social meeting for November 22 to watch the Iowa game on television. The an­nual Communion Breakfast was held on December 7 at the Hilton Hotel. 
—JIM RYAN, '53, Prcs. 

Flint 
Universal Notie Dame Communion Sunday was celebrated by the Flint Club with its annual Noire Dame Communion Breakfast at the Hotel Durant, Flint. 
Fort Lauderdale 
"Getting To Know You," was the theme of the September meeting, at which members and tlieir wives gathered to hear our distinguished Club Chaplain. The Right Reverend GILES ALLAIS told of his recent trip to Italy to celebrate his Golden Jubilee Mass in the same country* church in which he said his first Mass, This was the first lime many of the members bad heard ^lonsignor Allais speak, other than sa>ing Grace before eadi meeting, as his sermons arc all preaclied at thc^ Negro Church of the Annunciation. His heart­warming storv- drew praise from everyone and re­quests that he be heard again at a future meeting. 
Tlie name of Jx\CK McCORMACK, '54, was drawn for the jackpot award, but as he v%*as not present the ten dollars was added to the October jackpot. 
TED GORE, '50, was the lucky recipient of the twenty-dollar jackpot at the October meeting, but that was only one of many prizes awarded (hat evening. The annual rafllc was the event, and the interest shown is evident by the long list of at­tendees, each eager to see v%iio tlie winners v\-ouId be. Tlic grand prize was a $700 cash award, whicli^ the winner took in place uf an expense-paid trip for two to an Irish football game. The other prizes were bottles of premium liqueurs. Present at the event were Msgr. GILES ALL^VIS, chaplain; Marge and FRANK McDONOUGH, '41, president: FRANK McGINN, '52, Vice-President; Marlenc and JOHN McGINN, '54, Treasurer; TOM MURR.\Y, '50, Secrclarj-; .Marge and BOB GORE, '31, chair­man of the board; BILL McALPINE, '53, director; Libbv and DICK WH.\LE.\, director; GEORGE ERNST, director; FRANK a\REY, '41; GEORGE .McFADDEN (A); John C. Brogaii, F. P. Gore. 
W. R. Vance; Marion and TED GORE, '50; Wal­ter C. Dyer; Eileen and JOHN aVLLAN, ^21; 
R. H. GORE, SR. (A); Di and JI.M NOLAN (A); -Bemice and DR. DOUG WALTER, '46; Margaret* and BILL BURKE (A); Nell and JACK LYONS (A); Amelia and .MATT BUTTI (A); Alma and DR. JERRY AHLFS (.\); GERRY FINNEY, '54; 
Jane and BILL MAUS, '53; ED TROMBETTA, ^61 ; -Marilyn and BOB ifcDONOUGH, '32; JOE VKLEE , '18; J. B. Crowley, Mary Ellen and Floyd Worthen; Eunic and DICK BAKER, '33; Mr. and Mrs. William Scliercr; Carol>-n and BRENDAN GALLAGHER (A); Mary Lou and FITZ GORE, '31; Mr. and Mrs. Paul Kelly; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Sassano; -Milzi and Ri\Y DOU.MAR (A); Xaj and Al Souckar; Walter H. Wendell; Dorothy and TOM NOLJ\IV, '+4; Madge and NICK .MARGARITIS (A); Virginia and J1.\I HALEY (A); Suzanne and DR. HY .MANNING (A); Bea and HAL PETERS (A); .Mickc\- and GEORGE GORE, '48; Dolly and TO.M WALKER, '42; JOE DUGAN (A); Barbara and JOHN .McCOR-MACK, '34; Pat and PAT LYNCH, '33; B. Snyder; Paula and BOB DICKEY (A); Pat and BILL SALLADE (A); JOE a\­
•<OUSE , '52: Claire and JOHN SULLIVAN, '31; Jean and WILL,\RD MOSS (A); J. Connors, P. Culwer, and Charlie Sluycc. 
Our Club's first Club Directory was distributed at the November meeting and was enthusiastically received by those present. For each of the Club's 102 members tlic directory gives his name, class, wife's name, home address and phone, position and finn, and business address and phone. In addition, there is a history of the Club, a list of all its past presidents, recipients of Man-oF-the-Year awards, the Club Constitution, the present organization of the Club, a photo of the otlicers, and a photo of tlnise present at the August meeting. The Directory was compiled by TOM .MURIUW, '50, with the 
Assistance of BOB GORE, '31. GEORGE GORE, 
^^8 , wrote the Constitution, which had been ap­proved at an earlier m(:cting. GEORGE ERNST, '29, did a beautiful job oa the printing of it at his Poinsettia Press. Tlic photos were taken by Fran Zent, Editor of the Pompano Beach Town News. 
On hearing that Father ED.MUND JOYCE, C.S.C, Executive Vice-President of the University, had injured his eye, the Club became concerned and placed a phone call to him during tlie meet­ing. He was "delighted" to hear from us, and gave us the good news that he would not lose the sight in that eye. 
A letter was read from the office of Bishop Colc­^iian Francis Carroll, first Bishop of the new Dio­^'cse of .\fiami, regreltins his inability to attend-On the motion of JOHN SULLIVAN, '31, the Club voted a donation of $100 for the new diocese. 
WILLIAM J- DAWSON, '49, became a new member of the Club at this meeting, as did PAUL GL,\SS, '40, and JACK HOUGHTELING, '47, partners in Sorin Hall Advertising Agency- In ad­dition, tile Club voted into associate membership JIM CROWLEY, JOE S<\SSi\NO, ED WROBLES-Kl, and JOHN -MORRISSO.N. 
Nominations were made for officers and directors; names of the successful candidates W'ill appear in the ne.\t tssuc­
-'\ new jackpot was started with $10 and was won by FlUNK aVREY, '46. In addition to our regular November meeting, 
• ur Club gathered around three television sets at the Governor's Club Hotel to watch the Notre Dame - Iowa game- GEORGE ERNST, '29, and IVILL/IRD AfOSS (.A), with tlic assistance of other volunteers, saw to it that everyone was kept sup­plied with complimentarv' joy juice, although there was no joy when the game was over. Wc did have a most pleasant surprise, though, when a sumptu­ous hot and cold buffet w^is brought out at the end of the game. Present at this afTair were Alma and DR- JERRY AHLFS (A); CH-ARLIE BACH-\HN, '17; Eunie and DICK BAKER, '53; ED BOLF, '44; ALLi\N BURNS, '42; ,Wv and .MATT BUTTI (\); Eileen and JOH.\ aVLL^WJ, '21; -Mary and «L L a\.MPBELL (A); JOE a\NOUSE, '32, and guest; Helen -Nfaric and WALTER CR-ANE, '33; BILL DAWSON, '49; D\S DOWNEY, '44; JIM DOWNEY, '43; Trudy and GEORGE ERNST, '29; GERRY FINNEY, '34; BRENDiW GALL;\GHER (A); PAUL GL.\SS, '40; JOE GORE, '42; R. H­GORE, SR. (A); BOB GORE, '31; JOHN HOUGH­TELING, '47; RAY HUFF.NLVN (A); Pat and PAT LYNCH, '33; BILL -MADDEN, '42; Jane and BILL M.\US, '53, and guests from Barry College; BILL -McALPINE, '53; JOHN -McCOR-MACK, '54; FRA.VK -McDONOUGH, '41; Marilyn and BOB McDONOUGH, *53; -Marlene and JOHN -McGINN, '54; Mars- and ROGER "-Meny Olds" .McGR,\TH; DR. A. J. .McVICHOLiVS, '44; Jean and WILLARD ^lOSS (A); TOM MURRAY, '50; Di and JLM WOL,\.\ (A); ED TROMBETTTA, '61, and guest; Libbv and DICK WHALEN; Preston -McMurdo; BOB DW\-ER, '38; GEORGE GORE, '48, and a few others whose names we didn't get. 
Our December meeting was a joyous Christmas 

CLEVELAND—^A special award was presented to Charles E. "Chuck" Rohr for his out­standing service to the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland. From left: Club President Ray T. Miller, Jr.; Chuck Rohr, member of the Alumni Board of Directors; Francis L. "Mike" Layden, retiring president, and J. Patrick "Pat" Canny, past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
party with the traditional eggnog and turkey din­
ner with all the trimmings- All the ladies received 
special Chrbtmas corsages to add to the festive 
touch. Tlie entertainment was supplied by every­
one, as wc joined together in singing Christmas 
Carols. 
Your secretary has enjoyed reporting the events 
of the past year and joins the other officers and 
outgoing directors in thanking the Club for its 
wottderiul support and for the privilege of serving. 
—TO.M -MURR,VY, '50, Secy-
Fort Wayne 

In October ire had our annual Football Smoker. It was Itcld at St. Patrick's L>yccuni. /\ftcr \*icw­ing the higlih'ghls of the 1957 Xotre Dame football season, we listened to some vcr>- interesting com­
incnts on the 1958 season by HILMRD GATES, 
Sports Director of \VKJG-T\\ Chairman for this evening of entertainment iras Ri\LPH BLUME. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held Sun­day moniing. December 7. 1958, Holy Mass was heard at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Con­ception, with breakfast following at the Kcenan Hotel. Cncst spealcer was the Rev. Joseph Crowley who spoke on his recent trip to Lourdcs, France. Chairman for tliis event was MAURIE DcWALD. 
We celebrated the Christmas season with the campus club at a Christmas dance Saturday night, December 27. It was a scmt-formal affair at the Orchard Ridge Country Club. Chairman for the Alumni was AL YOUNGHAUS. 
—JOSEPH H. D.VNIEL, Sec>-. 

Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
The Notre Dame CLUB of Grand Rapids held its annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday. De­cember 7, immediately following 7:45 Mass. JERRY MULVIHILL was a co-chairman for the breakfast. 
Guam 
T^otrc Dame men on the Territory of Guam and their families attended Mass and received Holy Communion at the Dulce Nombre de Maria Cathe­dral, .-Xgana, In conjunction with the annual Uni­
versal Xotre Dame Communion Sundav, December 
7, 1938. 
Mass was followed by breakfast in one of the 

local restaurants where our families met for the 
first time and where wc exchanged notes about 
X. D. We also talked about the feasibility of for­mally organizing a club and electing officers prior to Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Wc have many problem^ in our cITort to start a 

club on Guam which are uncommon to stateside 
communities. For instance, wc have a limited num­ber of Alumni, most of whom arc stationed on Guam temporarily. Nonetheless, wc arc highly en­thusiastic about keeping a Notre Dame group to­gether and wc hope to bring the X'otre Dame storx* to the people of Guam and the military' personnel and their dependents stationed on the Island. 
To date, wc have been called upon to furnish a speaker to a local club on the topic. "What IS Catholic Education?'' We have also been called upon to assist high school seniors who ore plan­ning to enter college next fall. We have gone on record as ofTering our services to the Innumerable Catholic activities on the Island. Guam, a mere eight-year-old territory, has many problems and needs. It Is growing and growing. We hope that our group will grow with It. . . . We arc going to do our best to represent Notre Dame out here in the most worthy manner. 
—V. T. (BF„\) BLAZ, '5t (Capt., USMC) Acting President. 

Harrisburg 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg held its annual *'back to school*' party last September 14. The party was given in honor ol the .students ^»­tending the university for the first time and also to give the "old timers" a proper sendofT. The party was held at the home of JOHN D.WIS. Ar­rangements were handled hy DON MEEK, Club President. 
Plans got under way In the f?Jl to Inaugurate a "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award. This award will be given amiiially, If a worthy recipient is found, to an outstanding local citizen, not neces­sarily an Alumnus, who pursues X'. O. ideals in Church, family and chic affairs, at the annual Com­munion Breakfast. 
Arrangements for the "Football and Leadership" 
Notrg Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 27 
DETROIT—Smiling officers of the Notre Danie Club of Detroit arc (1. to r.): Dan Bradley, first Wee president; Don Herron, secretary; Joe Carey, president; Tom Verbiest, treasurer, and Lou Conroy, second vice president. 
award, wlitdi is given to a student iii the area, have been under ivay, Tliis year a written exami­nation will be used to help select the «-inncr. Tlic award is given to a local student who has excelled in his studies as well as football abilities, and who shows outstanding leadership qualities. 
Tlic Notre Dame Club held its annual Commun­ion Breakfast on December 14. Initiated this year was the club's "Notre Dame Man of the Year Award." DON MEEK, club president, made the presentation to Mr. ALBERT SCH.MIDT, a local business man who has been active for 40 years in various civic and religious activities In tlus area. Bill O'Conell handled arrangements and also acted as master of ceremonies. REV. FRANCIS A. KIRCHNER, club chaplain, celebrated tlic Mass and gave tlie benediction at the breakfast. 
—ROLAND H. BERGER, '52, Secy. 
Indianapolis 

DON POTTER, '43, has been named general manager of Stewart-Warner's Electronics Division in Cfiicago. PrcWousIy he has ser\'cd as chief engi­neer and for the last eleven years he has been an executive witli the firm's South \Vind Di\^sion. ^\^lile we are sorrv* to see Don go, we wish him success on his new appointment. Se\xral N. D. graduates have recently arrived In tlic dty. BILL STUHLDREHER, '53, is associated with A. C. Becker investment firm while TERRY CAREY, '53, has just joined Blythe & Company in Indianapolis. Looks like '53 was a year for brokers. LEO Mc-NAMARA has also returned to the McXamara Two Gaits Farm. He has been working with the Han­over Farms. 
With the Indiana Legislature in session, J/VCK BRrVDSHA^V', '53, has been plenty busy. Besides being a newly elected representative from Indianapo­lis, Jack is associated witli the law firm of Mc-Hale, Cook, Welch & McKinne>-. Best ^vishes to BILL KENNEDY, '42, of Kennedy Tank who has just recovered from a gall bladder operation. He says "tanks" to all his well wishers. ART SULLI­VAN has just been appointed to tlie Board of AWa­tioQ Commissioners for the Indianapolis Municipal Airport. 
On December 7 our club had their Communion Breakfast. This year's breakfast was tlie largest in our history and wc were fortunate ia having FATHER CHARLES SHEEDY, Dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, as our main speaker. He gave cver)*one a real inside look at some of the University's problems and operations. 
—CHUCK STIMNUNG, '53, Sec>-. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Kalamaioo 
Officers of the Kalamazoo Club for 1958-59 are: VICTOR KIM.MEL, president; JOSEPH O'KEEFE, president-elect; GILBERT GAUDIE, treasurer (re­elected), and GERALD DESMOND, secretary. 
Last year's summer outing was held on July 29 at Gull Lake. It u-as a stag affair for 250 alumni, friends and guests. Tlierc was golf in the aftei­noon. followed by dinner and a program of sliort comments bv guests and N. D. game movies. Guests included TERRY BREXXAN, JAKE KLLVE, JOHN JORD.AN and other members of the coach­ing staff. It u-as a very successful event. 
The fall program included trips to the home fool-ball games.—GERRY DESMOND, Scc>-, 
Kankakee Valley 
Officers of the Kankakee Valley Notre Dante Club for 1958-59 have been as follows: President. RICHARD L. CLANCY, '52; Vice-President, OVRL WEBER, '35; Secretary, THOMAS REYNOLDS, '54, and Treasurer, ROBERT LOOS, '49. Efforts have been made to direct outstanding high school students in the area to Notre Dame. 
The Valley Club president, RICHARD CLANCY, resides at 705 W. Broadway in Bradle>-, Illinois. The club held Its annual Communion breakfast on December 7, at St. Josepli Parish. 
A committee was appointed to arrange plans fur a Mard! Gras dance, held on the Saturday night prior to the beginning of Lent. 
Since the initiation of the club in 195G, revenue trom club sponsored events has provided a scholar­ship for a deser\ing boy from the Kankakee area to attend St. Patrick's Central High located in Kankakee. Tlie scliolarship was started in memor>' of Da\id Neal, a cliarter member of the club, wlio passed away this year. 
Kansas City 
Tlic last three montlis of '58 did not slide by the Kansas City Club ^v-ith any inactivity, as many of tlie club members were busy and activities were ol the wholesome t>Tie. 
On October 14th, the Kansas City Club was host at a noon luncheon for the REV. JOHN J. CJVV­ANAUGH, C.S.C., head of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. Father Ca\-anaugh was in Kansas City tlie night preceding to speak at a dinner of the Cath­olic Community Library's Joyce Kilmer Club. Tlie lunclieon meeting teas held In the Colonial Ballroom of the Muehlbacli Hotel in downtown Kansas City. There were approximately 100 alumni and friends, as \vell as numerous guests to hear from Father Ca\-anaugh. The Honorable H. Roe Bartlc, Mayor of Kansas City, was among the guests, and pre­sented Father Ca\-anaugh a key to Kansas Cit>'.*j Mayor Bartlc also presented Father Ca\-atiaugh a 10 gallon hat, and miniature steer to commemorate his \isit to Kansas City at the same time the Future Farmers of ABtcnc:i were lia*ing their convention, and also the American Ro>'aI Livestock Show. Also among tlic many guests were Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. V. Sulllx-an, S.T.D., Chancellor of the Kansas City-Sl. Joseph Diocese, who was representing Bishop John Cody, wlio was in Rome; Hon. Frans Taeleuians, Consul General of Belgium In Kansas City; Mr. N,omian Gordon, Past President of Serra Interna­tional; fathers of the scholarship winners, and 

fathers of the freshmen. To compliment his visit to 

Kansas City, President ED AYLWARD presented 
Father Ca\-anaugh with a clieck for §500.00 lor tht-
Foundatlon, which had been raised from the alumm* 
present and others. 
The week end following Father Cavanaugh's visit saw 100 loyal alumni and friends board special cars for a trip to the Dtdie game. The trip left Kansas City on Thursday noon, with the adventurers stop­ping in Chicago Tliursday night, Friday, and Friday night. On Saturday morning, the group dcp:*rteti by special bus to South Bend for the game. Three hours and many hoarse voices later, the rooters re­turned to Chicago for the niglit. The trjncluslon of the trip saw them arrive in Kaiis:ti City on the night of October 19, hale and hearty, but a little wcar\*. 
Co^ialrmanship for the trip was shared bv~ RUSS FARRELL and BOB METZLER, both pasfl presidents of the club, who again are to be con­gratulated for a job well done. Tlic money that was realized by the trip goes into the Scholarship Fund, adding to the muids of those that went that they also helped a worthy cause as well as having a good time. 
November xvas the month of planning for the Xmas season, and found many of the officers and committees consulting on the various activities to be held. 
On December 7, the annual Comnmitjon Break­fast was held at the Twin Oaks Dining Room in the south part of Kansas City. The Mass was said in the Cliapel of St, Peters immediately beforehand. A group of about 60 alumni and families wen'­present. 9 
Climaxing the year, and also the highlight of the Xmas season was the annual Xmas Diniier-Cocktait-Dance, held once again In the ballrooms of tlie President Hotel In downtown Kansas City. At 
7:30 a great time was begun with an hour of FREE cocktails, which was followed by the dinner, and then dancing held forth until 1 a.ni. With 3 3 people in attendance, the dance once again was a 
success. 
With that we close this edition of the news with a greeting to all that we hope your Xmas was as holy and happy as was ours here in Kansas City. 
—JOHN T. MASSMAN. '5(i, Sec>-. 

Kentucky 
On December 8, the Notre Dame Club of Ken­tucky held a Communion Supper at St. Mar>* Mdg­dalen Church In Louisville. As this was an In­novation in the Club's spiritual functions, it was most gratifying to have such a fine turnout nf mem­bers and their families. FATHER JAMES MA­LONEY, Director of Boy's Haven In Louis\'ilIc, was guest speaker at the supper following the evening Mass. The next spiritual function was a Com­munion Breakfast the first Sunday of March. 
Kentucklana alumni were happy to have the op­portunity to see the Irish basketballers in action at the Bluegrass Tournament In Louisville duriijHi' December. ^Vc ^vcre also pleased to Iiavc botir FATHER BARRY, C.S.C., team chaplain, and JIM GIBBONS, assistant coacli, take time out from tlielr busy scliedulcs to stop In at our December business meeting. At the same meeting, DICK MIX, busi­ness manager of the LouisWlle Rebels professional hocke>' team, showed films of cliamptonship hockey games and gave an interesting talk to our members. 
The Club's annual Christmas Dance was held on December 26, at the ProWncial House in Louisville. An enjoj-ablc evening was held by the large number of members, tlieir wives and friends ^vho attended. Our thanks go to JIM WARREN, '49, who did an excellent job as dialrman of this year's affair. Stu­dents home for the \':ication period were again ir. attendance, and our thanks to them also for hclplil^' to make the dance the success It was. 
Congratulations to BERNARD BOU'LING, '43, on his recent election as mayor of St. Mattlie\vs, Kentucky, located in the suburbs, of Louisville. 
Bcniic has alwav-s been an active club member, and wc know he will do a lop-notcli job in his nc\%' ^ post. Good luck, Bcmie! ^ —JAMES C. KREBS, *56, Sccj-. 
La Crosse 
As part of the world-wide spiritual bouquut for FATHER HESBURGH, the Notre Dame Club of La Crosse celebrated Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday Dec. 7. 1958, at St. Dominic's Monasler\'. FATHER TO.\l NIXNEMAN was celebrant at the Mass and gave the address following the breakfast. A business meeting was included as part of the function. 

Officers elected to carry out llie club*s 1959 cal­endar of events are: JAMES KRONER, '50, Prcsi­kdenl, 2318 Mississippi St.; GER^VLD HEBER, '50, 
•Vicc-Presideni, 503 So. 22nd St.; STEVE PAVELA, '48, Secretarv-, 1513 Johnson St., and J. WILLIAM .MURPHY, '52, Treasurer, 1619 .Madison St. (all La Crosse). 
Four Holy Hours arc scheduled for the year—the first of which was held in January-. Members, their wives, families and friends attend. 
More than 230 persons filled the Stoddsrd Hotel's Cr>'stal Ballroom for our annual Notre Dame Club Christmas Formal. The dance continues to be ihc highlight of the city's holiday festivities. 

Februarj' found members gathering once again for our annual Memorial Mass and Communion Breakfast at St. Dominic's Moaastcr>'. Tlie turn­. out was inspiring as was the address by FATHER P'TOM NINNE.NLVN. Plans for Universal Notre Dame Night, to be held in April, were formulated. 
JOHN MICHUTA wa5 voted coadi of the year as he led his Aquinas High School football team to thccitv title and statewide renown. 
The TOM SAGGAUS added a 5th boy to an as­semblage that also includes one girl, —STEVE PA\'EI^\, Secy. 
Lehigh Valley 
It's been a busy schedule for the Lehigh Valley Notre Dame Club over the past several months. Over 150 members and friends boarded a special train on November 1 for the Notre Dame-Naw 

|fesme In Baltimore. Chairman MAURICE OLSON and his committee including LOU WA'NNE, DR. LOUIS GABRIEL, and DAVE NOL.\N, arranged for the decisive Irish victor>' and an enjoyable re­ception at the Lord Baltimore Hotel before the satisfying return trip. 
Plans for December activities wcic for.iiulated at the regular November membership meeting held on November 26. 
First of these activities was the obserx-ance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Ap­proximately 40 people attended Mxis at the Carmel­ite Cloister in Lanark, Pennsylvania, and breakfast was held at the Hotel Bethlehem. REV. HUGH F. McMULL/VN, former club cliaplain now stationed 
^in Philadelphia, was the main speaker. 
W Ne.\t on the agenda u'as the club's third annual Christmas Party held at Allciitoun's Livingston Club on December 27. 
Featured guests of the club were the "'tlafci" of the Notre Dame students. A complete evening, in­cluding social hour, dinner, and dancing highlighted the evening arranged by Chairman JIM WAI^H and his committee. BERT DAD.W, Club Presideiii, BILL MARTIN, and JACK MAGILL formed the core of the group that engineered the highly suc­cessful evening. 
—TO.M MAGILL, '55, Seo*. 

|Los Angeles 
In late summer and fall of 1958 the L. A. Club held several events, including a picnic under the chairmanship of JOHN Mci\RDLE, a retreat ar­ranged by EUGENE a\LHOUN, the Freshman Scndoir handled by BOB KELLEY and the Sports Dinner under the supcrxision of LEO TURGEOX. 
The night before the U.S.C.-N.D. game, Novem­ber 28, was. as always, a big night in Los Angeles. FR.\NK MEYER was in charge of the prc-gamc Notre Dame Rally in the Biltmore Hotel Ballroom. JOHN CARBERRY proWded the stars of stage, screen and television, and, as usual, the Judge worked overtime. It was a ver>- successful affair. 
GEORGE MEEKER was chairman for the Annual Notre Dame Communion Breakfast on December 7, 
• 'ield in a new parish hall after eleven o'clock Mass by RE\'. JOHN L^Tv'CH, C.S.C., at St. Francis Xavier Church In Burbank. Tlierc was a good turnout of Notre Dame families. 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Entertaining with Christmas carols at the December mcctiDg ^vcrc the members of the Fort Lauderdale Club's Board of Directors. From left to right arc Bob Gore, '31, chairman; Dick Whalen, '42; Bill McAlpinc, *53; George Ernst, '29, and Charlie Bachman, '17. 
Tlie Annual Holiday Dance was held on Tuesday, Dec. 30, at the Huntington Sheraton Hotel in Pasa­dena. Chairman BEN SALVAT^' was assisted bv Club President DON BR^\DY and GENE a\L . HOUN. Some of the member^ had c'inncr in the Ship Room of the Huntington before entering the Main Ballroom for dancing lo a great band, plus door prizes and refreshments. 
Maine 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of ^[aiIIe hc/d its first 
annual meeting at the summer home at \VorthIe>­
Pond In West Peru, Maine, on September 6, 1!)JS. 
.Again as last year this meeting scr^'ed as a get-
together for new freshmen. 
Officers re-elected at the business meeting were: R.VY GEIGER, President; LEO CORAHER, Vice-President; ED FARRELL and ROL^VND DECO­TE.\U, Area \'icc-Presidents: LEN TOBIX, Secre­tarv-, and JOHN F. L/\UGHLI.V (formerly of Chi­cago and no relation to ye editor). Treasurer. 
We are pleased to have Avith us Jim Vaughcy and Tom Cook, representatives of the Notre Dame Glee Club. Through the efforts of R/VV GEIGER wc have been fortunate in obtaining' the GJec Club for two concerts in Maine—on April I in Bangor and in Lewiston on April 2. This will mark the first appearance of the Glee Club in Maine. 
Anotlier highlight of our first year was the es* tablishnient of a scholarship fund which «-as re­sponsible for sending Richard Beauregard of Lewis-ton to Notre Dame last fall. Tiiis fund has been subscribed by alumni and friends of Notre Dame here in Maine. 
.•\fter the meeting there was boating, swimming, badminton and a buffet lunch, ably catered by host LEO CORMIER and son Dave, and enjoyed by all. 

In attendance were the following: among alumni, R.\Y GEIGER, JOHN U. RILEY, LEO CORM­IER, JOE DOYLE, JOHN LvVUGHLLV and LEN TOBIN; returning students Dave Cormier, Bob Fratcs, Jack Riogc, John Bellveau and Dave Lee; and freshmen Dan Sullivan, Dick Beauregard, Bill Bouras>a and HiJarv- Malianey. 
—J. LEONARD TOBIN, Secy. 
Miami 

The October meeting of the Miami Club u'as held In the University Club Room of the Urmcy Hotel and featured our third aiinttal Irish Swecpitakcs— the prime fund' raising project of the club. IDUS 
Q. WICKER came up as tJie lucky winner of two choice scats for the Army-Notrc Dame game, to­gether with 500 skins to cover expenses. Sweep­stakes chairman was DAN ROWLANDS. Second 
and third prize winners were BILL WELCH' and 
VINCE TURIANO. 
Football radio and TV parties were the order of 

the season. The first was held October -! at the 
MIKE 20R0V1CH home, and it was a sweet vic­
tory we enjoyed over a great S.M.U. learn. The 
Array game was covered excellently at the HENRY 
KEELS—despite tlic fact that the Kaydcts bested 
our lads on the scoreboard. Tlie Na\-y game was 
heard at the HERB NADE^VU residence, and it was 
a connncing sinking wc gave the Midshtpmeo. On 
November 15 our Club enjoyed a nice radio party 
at the I. I. PROBSTS, and true to II's promise 
Notre Dame emerged the victor over North Caro­
lina. THE annual TV party held at Major Ap­
pliances, courtesy of DAS ROWLAXDSy was well 
represented In numbers, and despite the final score 
our local club gave forth with plenty of support 
along the way—from such as the JI.M WILSONS, 
the JOHN THORNTONS, the DON JARRETTS, 
etc. The FRED PIOWATYS entertained the club 
at their Gables home on November 29 with a radio 
party for the final game of the N.D, season and a 
winner over Southern California. A popular spot 
was the charcoal grille, which was kept sizzling 
throughout the game. 
We had a fine letter of appreclatttm from FATHER JOHN C/W.VNAUGH, C.S.C., upon re­ceipt of the donation of §^!00 to the Foundation through iJic generosity of those who helped with the Sweepstakes. FATHER TOM O'DONNELL, C.S.C., urges that all take advantage of tlic color sound film "Notre Dame." Although the film has been shown to numerous clubs and organizations in the area (including a showing by your president, along with the "57 Football Highlights, to the Coral Gables Council K. of C. last September), should anyone know of National Exchange Club, Scrra Club, Eagles, K. of C , Elks, Lions or Rotary organizations who might be interested, please call CHARLIE MAKER. 
The next big event was tlie Miami CIub*s annual Christmas DInncr-Dance at the Coral Gables Coim­tr>- Club, December J8, J958. Dancing folloued cocktails and dinner for a ver>' fcstvic aftair. 
The annual Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami was held in the Top 'o the Columbus Hotel. We were htmorcd by the attendance of His ExccHcno* Bishop Coleman F, Carroll, the first Bishop of the new Diocese of Miami. Bbhop Carroll not only was tlie principal speaker at our breakfast but celebrated Mass at St. Mary's Cathedral. We had the largest turnout ever for this event—more than 170­
—CHARLES E. ALXHER, Prcs. 

Notre Dame AlumnuSy Marchy 1959 29 
FORT WAYNE—Club held its Annual Conununion Breakfast December 7, 1958, in Fort Wayne, Indiana. At the head tabic (from left) arc Co-Chairmen Jim Kress and Alaurie Wald; Rev. Joseph Crowley, guest speaker, and Robert Klingenbergcr, club president. 
Michigan City 

Xcwiy elected officers of the Xotre Dante Club o[ Micliigan City, Indiana, were installed at a meeting at the Italian \1IIage on Saturday, Jan. 31. 1959. Retiring president LOUIS E. BLiVCK in­stalled the foltowlns new officers: WILLIAM PRIEBE, '53, President; DR. F. J. KUBIK, '3G, Vice-President; W. C. ZEHNPFENNIG, Tifl. Secrc­tar>-, and DR. ROBERT L. MARSKE, *45, Treas. 
Mid-Hudson Valley 

Although the Mid-Hudson Va!le>- Club liasn't re­ported for some time we arc still active. The officers are as follows: REV. .\NTHOXV J. BOT­TI, S.J., Chaplain; ANTHONY J. BUONO, Presi­dent; DON J. REYNOLDS, Vice-President; BRIAN 
C. O'NEIL, Secretary-, and JAMES J. FL;VNA­GAN, Treasurer. 
Tlic Club has monthly dinner meetings rotating from Kingston, Poughkeepsie, and Ncwburgh. A Father-and-Son Communion Breakfast ^^as field De­cember 7 at St. Andrews on Hud»«n, with FATHER BOTTI celebrating Mass. Breakfast following at the Nelson House in Poughkeepsie. The annual Christmas dinner party for Alumni and their friends ^v'as held December 17 at Talbut's in IMeasant \^a!Ie>-, N. Y. 
Milwaukee 

November 11, 1958 — Veteran's Day — witnessed about 80 Notre Dame '"vets" attending a Schllt/­fcst tN-pc general meeting of the local alumni organ­ization at the Sclilitz Brown Bottle. Seventy-five grads were the guests of tlie Joseph Sdilitz Brewing Company and thoroughly enjoyed a bu'fct dinner along with the host's product. Alumni from virtual­ly cver>' class since 1910 were present, and enjoyed two films: "Shake Down the Tlmnder"—which depicts the writing of the \1cloiY March—and "Notre Dame"—portraying current life on the rapidly expanding N.D. Campus. President WAL­TER SCHNEIDER laid out plans for future activ­ities of tlie Club. WALTER PIDUCH, JR., was ctialmian for the very successful event. 
The Reverend JOHN F. WALSH, C.S.C., re­turned to Milwaukee as guest speaker uf the alumni club at the annual Notre Dame Communion Break­fast held at St. Charles Boj-s Home, Sunday, Decem­ber 7. Father Walsh spoke concerning the educa­tional objectives towards whidi the University is strinng; he stressed tliat tJic primaiy puq)ose is to educate the whole man who vvill be able to cope with the problems in this increasingly dynamic world of ours. A native of Milwaukee, Father Walsh spent the week end with his mother, who was also scu.ted at the speakers' table during the breakfast. TIic Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee's annual contribution to St. Charles Boys Home was made to BROTHER VUTOR, C.S.C. 
The Milwaukee .Athletic Club was once again the 

30 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
scene for the Annual Holiday Dance on Saturday. Januar>' 3. The elaborate setting and smooth mel­odies of the Steve Swedish Orriu-stra combined to provide tlie large gathering with a most enjo\-able evening. The net proceeds from the dance were for the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee Scholarship Fund established at the University. A large number of N.D. students and their guests attended'the gala affair with the Mllwraukee (Campus) Club Presi­dent NED BALDUS. During the evening. TOM MULCi\H\'' announced his engagement to Miss Sarah Sceales—an SMC girl. 
Club Vice-President ROBERT L. GROGAN is working on plans for the Universal Notre Dame Night Banquet. .\ series of mailings will be made to the members in plenty of time t? make plans for the festive afTair. Last vear's guest speaker was Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH, President of the University of Notre Dame. 

Tills, I announce with great regret, will be my last contribution to the ALUMNUS from Milwaukee. It's been z. real pleasure serving ttic local group as secretar>' for the past two years and making so many lasting friends here in the "Home of the Braves." Special thanks go. to such exempiarv N.D. alumni as DR. JIM BYRNE, CHARLES O'NEILL, JIM a\SPER, BOB ROLF, JOHN CULLEN, BOB GROGAN, JOE MESEC, and WALT SCHNEIDER who have helped the Alumni Club tremendously with their support and Iiave made the Manious' stay here most enjoyable; without the help of these men and others—too numerable to mention—the Milwaukee group may not have grown to the prominence which it now cnjo\-s in the area. .-MI alumni groups need the active and aggressive 
• help of the members; passive intorest, lack of in­terest, or '"objective" excuses must be oxercome to build up a Notre Dame Alumni Club worth the name; 1 sincerely hope that I have helped some­what to acliieve this In Milwaukee. 
Clark Oil & Refining Corp. has seen fit to trans­fer ine to Peoria (Illinois) where I will assume the duties of District Manager—Wholesale Division. 
—JOHN MANION, 'JG, Sec>-. 


Mohawk Valley 

Forty members of the Xotre Dame Club of the Mohawk Valley- heard Herkimer Countv Court Judge EDMUND A. McCARTHY speak at the annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Break­fast December 7 in the Prospect Hotel, Herkimer, 
N. Y. Tlie group assisted at Mass and received Communion in St. Francis dc Sales Churcli, Herki­mer, prior to the breakfast. 
As is customary-, the home parish of the outgoing president, DR. DANIEL C. SHAUGHNESSY, class of 1930, was cliosen for this event. 
DANIEL WATERBURY, '44, White^boro, who re­cently was elected club president, scr\'ed as toast­master, and JOHN J. McCANN, '50, lUion, intro­duced the speaker. Tlic Reverend Paul J. Antos, assistant pastor at St. Francis, gave the invocation. 
**TIie world is cr>-ing out for a solution to juvenile 

delinquency and will look to the educated, trained 
and morally sound graduates of colleges and uni-_ 
vcrsities like Notre Dame to solve tlie mounting's^' 
problem," Judge ^fcCarthy told the gathering. 
"You have a tremendous responsibility—the Golden 
Trust—your heritage from your alma mater." | 
TOM REAGAN, '49, Utlca, was chairman of the 

Communion Breakfast. DAN SHAUGHNESSY, JR., 
('66???), son of the outgoing president, was the 
youngest member present, while l"Rj\NK. D. OTT, 
'22, Herkimer, represented the *'old guard." 
Tlie club also sent a congratulatory trtegrani to 

CARDINAL 0'HAR.\ and a letter of condolence to 
the family of JACK LAVELLE on the day of the 
breakfast. 
Other officers' elected for the coming year—be­sides DAN WATERBURY—at the animal fall meet­ing include: Vice-Pres. VINCEN*T FLETCHER, '32, A Secretary- KEN MURPHY, '54, and Treasurer ^ ROGER LEMKE, '58, all of Utica. The new pres­ident announced at the breakfast that a newly-organized Executive Board had been created includ­ing, besides the club officers, the following mem­bers: DR. DONALD A. G.VVAGAN, '42, Herkimer; WILLL\M L\*NCH, '54, Rome; LOUIS P. CLr\RK, '34, Yorkville; EDWARD J. SWEENEY, '30, oat-going secretary-treasurer, and R/VMSAY COLLIS, '34, both of Utica. 
The alumni assisted the undergraduates in ar­ranging the annual Christmas Dance which was held December 26 in Club Monarch, Yorkv-Ille. 
—KENNETH F. MURPHY, 'jf, Secy. 

New Haven 
JOSEPH BENOIT was elected president of the New Haven Alumni Club of Notre Dame at its annual meeting held in the Elk's Club, 389 Whitney .•\ venue. 
Other officers named for the coming year were JOSEPH CLARK, vice president; THO.MAS J. HILS, secretary, and DR. JOHN J. O'NEILL, treasurer. 
EDWARD A. BYRNE, outgoing president, was selected to head a board of directors for a five-year term. Others arc JOHN ZDENOWICZ, four years; JOSEPH BURNS, three years; JOHN CL:\RK, two years, and JOHN KERRIGAN, one year. 
Plans, were completed for the club's annual Cor-^ porate Communion and breakfast on Sunday, Feb.^^ 
15. Alumni, their wives and families attended 8 
a.m. Mass at St. Mary-'s Church, Hiilhouse, .Ave., and then had breakfast at the G & H Restaurant, Temple St. 
At the conclusion of the meeting, ByTue was given a \T>te of thanks for his efforts in serving the club for tlie past several vears. 
—TOM HILS, '35, Secy. 

New Jersey 
The New Jersey Club held elections and Fresh­men welcome in September. Tlie following ullicers were elected: JOHN KELLY, '40, President; PHIL SAND.MEIER, '40, Vice President; BILL. KIRCH-^ NER, '51, Treasurer; JOE McKEON, '40, Secre-^^ tary-; ANGELO BERTELLl and BOB JOYCE, Board of Directors to 1961. 
Tlic freshmen welcome was attended by approx­imately ninety-five (95) freshmen and their fathers. .-\mong the incoming freshmen was Bucky O'Con­nor's son, Brian and Senator O'Mara's son. The freshmen, their fathers. Alumni and guests were entertained with a film on Notre Dame and refresh­ments. BUCKY O'CONNOR, PETE QUINN, DAN O'NEIL, JOHN KELLY, PHIL SHERIDAN, ED. JON HOENE, HANK BORDA, GEORGE PL.MN, TO.M FARRELL, DOC HAYES, HARRY STEV­ENSON, TOM FARLEY, PAUL REILLY, DE.\ SCULLY were some of the old grads at th46. meeting. 
—JOSEPH McKEON, Secy. 

New Mexico 
The reaction of the nation's sports writers to the release of TERRY BRENN.VN was the first topic of a meeting of the New Mexico Club held in Albu­querque on Monday, January 12. CEC JORD.\N, our footbal expert, pointed out that the University had in no way broken Its contract with Brennan. Furthermore, lie reminded us that the sooner it be­came public tliat Terry would be looking for a job in April, the better ofT lie would be. IGGY MULCAHY offered the opinion lliat \-'inning anc^ losing probably- had nothing to do witii it. PAU!^) KINSELLA helpfully pointed out diat the Uni­versity has been getting more free advertising than ever before. 
If \vc can find a wortliy guest speaker the club plans a big promotion for this year's aiiiuial Uni­
^versal Notre Dame Night banquet. 
P CEC JORDAN and IGGY MULCAHY, respect­ively, were appointed chairman and assistant to the cliairman of the Universal Notre Dame Night Com­mittee. GEORGE GL^VSER u-as appointed chair­man uf the Man-of-the-Ycar Selection Conmiittee. 
PAUL KINSELL.\ and BILL HARVEY were requested to assemble and publish a club diiectory. 
The old subject of establishing a Notre Dame scholarship for a deserving New Mexico high school student came up once again at our last meeting. St. Mar>*'s Cougar Club lias demonstrated that it is possible to raise enough money for sucii a project by selling chances on an expense-paid Notre Dame football week end. Tlisi idea »'as first adv-anced by LOUIS LUJAN and loaned by our club to the 
•Cougar Club until we could get organized well enough to run it ourselves. In the pas: the big snag has been the problem of securing the money for the prize which, by law, must be donated. A concerted effort will be made to solicit the neces­sary donations this year. Memoers are making monthly mail contributions to the scholarship fund. 
Dues have been changed from annual to monthly pa\-iuents, and a monthly newaletter wilt record personal news of the memocrs. 
—L.\RRY O'CO.VNELL, Secy. 


New York 
In January JIM MacDEVITT was named presi­

k^dent of the Notre Dame Club of New - York and 
"BIL L CUDD Y became secretary-. Retiring Presi­dent BUD MULVEY remains on the Board of Governors, listed below. Backtracking, New York ran a ver>* successful Notre Dame Club Special to the Nav->* game in Baltimore November I. Fans attended .-Ml Saints Day Mass at St. Francis Church, across from Penn Station, before departing on the Pennsy for a very satisfxing afternoon in Baltimore. At a general meeting on November 12 nominators were cliosen to select a slate for the Board o( Governors.' Refreshments were scr\'kd. Mrs. HUB SCHU\FLY and .Mrs. EUGENE MA­GUIRE handled arrangements for the Second An­nual Luncheon, Bridge and Fur Fashion Show on 
IpCov. 15 in the Music Room of the Biltmoic Hotel. Proceeds went to the Scliolarship Fund. The Trust Fund was also the beneficiary of a fund drive begun on Nov. 28. Prize for participants was a 1959 Ford station wagon, and the winning ticket seller had a choice of a $300 U. S. Bond, a mink stole, a lady's wardrobe, a color TV set or a paid \'acation. Drawing took place at the Jan. 15 general meeting. FATHER JOYCE, executive vice president cf tlie University, was the principal speaker at the Annual Notre Dame Communion Breakfast, a bruncli De­cember 7 at the Park Lane Hotel after Mass at St. 
Patrick's Cathedral. Laetare Medalist and Vatican Envoy CLARE BOOTH LUCE, another guest, was unable to attend. GORDON FORESTER u-as chair­man, assisted by HOWARD FAHEY, x\NTHONY DiBARI and EDWARD NEAHER. 
At the January 15 meeting mentioned above the members received the slates submitted by the nom­inating committee and elected the following as members of the Board of Governors: (two year term) FRED CARIDEO, JOHN DUFFY, HER­BERT GEORGIO, AUGUSTIN HARDART, JR., and WILLIAM V. CUDDY; plus (one year term) THOM.VS WALSH, JOHN MURPHY, GORDON FORESTER, JOSEPH DURKIN and FILVNK PARISH. The Board also includes ANTHONY EARLEY, WILLIAM FALLON, STEPHEN MUL­VEY, TIERNEY O'ROURKE and FLORENCE McCfXRTHY, 5er\nng for a second year. 
The Board elected the following officers for 1959: President, JAMES MacDEVITT, JR.; Executive Vice President, GORDON FORESTER; Secrctarv, WILLLVM V. CUDDY; Treasurer, JA.MES SPELL­MAN; Vice President—Long Island, JOSEPH WURZLER; Vice President—Westchester, FRED aVRIDEO; Vice President—Catholic Action, ED­W.ARD NEAHER; Vice President-Notre Dame Foundation, WILLLVM F. MURPHY; Vice Presi­dents—Trust Fund, JAMES SHEILS and HUBERT SCHLAFLY; Vice President—Placement, GEORGE FRAZIER; Vice President—Career Clinic, JOHN 
DUNLE/V\^'; Vice President — Public Relations, JOHN DUFFY; Ass't. Secretary—Manhattan, MICHAEL MALL.VRDI; Ass't Secretary—Long Island, JOHN KE^VRNEY; Ass't. Seqretary— Westchester, and as Chaplain, REV. CHv\RLES LEE. 
In the Trust Fund drawing the Country Squire station wagon went to Philip Ochsner, Lcvittown, 
L. I. JOHN BOYLE sold the winning ticket. The New York Club continues to manage the Jack Lavelle Fund for the primary purpose of en­suring the education of the two children left be­hind by the beloved JACK LAVELLE, who died Dec. 5. Tributes to Jack can be found in the 1923 Class Column, the obituaries and elsewhere in this issue. In this effort the Club has had the cooper­ation of Jack's many friends in the press and the world of sports, and particularly from West Point, Yale, professional football and professional baseball. Contributions to the fund can be sent to the Jack Lavelle Fund, 1600 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y. 
.•MI proceeds from the .-Vrmy-Notre Dame basketball game February-9 went to this cause. 
On February 8 the Long Island Dix-ision held its second annual Golden .Anniversary Cocktail Dance in honor of JOHN B. K.ANALEY, '09. DR. FRfVNK handled reser\-ations for the affair, held at the Garden City Hotel. One of the highlights was the reading of congratulalor>- messages from CARDINAL 0'HAR.\, FATHER HESBURGH and rMumni Secretary- J/VMES E. ARMSTRONG. 
.\ three-day Notre Dame Retreat was held at Loyola Seminary, Shrub Oak, N.Y., from February 19 to February 22. GEORGE J. FRAZIER, JR.. was chairman of the retreat. 

The annual Universal Notre Dame Night Diimer-Dancc will be held at the Park Lane Hotel April 4. 
North Carolina 
On November 22, 1958, the North Carolina Club was reorganized. 
A group of eleven alumni, plus eleven friends of Notre Dame, wives, mothers and fathers of students, met at Suber's Restaurant in Charlotte to watch the lowa-Notre Dame football game on teIe\-ision and have dinner. Alumni present included: AL\R­CELLUS KIRCHNER, '29, LOUIS HAEFELE, '5t, GEORGE YOUNG and JOE NOLAN, '58, all of Winston-Salem; ROBERT PERCIVAL, '48, ANDY WASSELL, '51, and JOHN O'CONNELL, '« , from Charlotte; JOE SHEA, '-H, and DONALD KELSEY, '48, of Greensboro; SAMUEL HAGLEY, '58, Belmont, and W1LLIA.M BROCKHOFF, '49. of Taylorsnllc. 
An organizational meeting was held during the. half, and the following officers were elected from those present to keep the North Carolina Club rolling in 1959: President, JOHN O'CONNELL, Charlotte; Vice-President, JOE SHE.A, Greensboro; Secretary, LOUIS HAEFELE, Winston-Salem, and Treasurer, ROBERT PERCIVAL of Charlotte. 
It %*'as proposed that we tr>- to organize a meet­ing for the Notre Dame - North Carolina basketball game January 3, with dinner after^vard for alumn! and friends of Notre Dame, and that we act as clearing house for tickets to Notre Dame people in the area for this game. 
Ticket blanks were sent out, and Notre Dame alumni and friends were well represented la Char­lotte's Coliseum, with approximately 223 supporters in the Notre Dame section. N'.D. lost, but the day was a success. 
After the game we adjourned to Honey'j Res­taurant here in Charlotte for a veiy successful din­ner, attended by 83. Before dinner there was a social hour, and ever>'one >^?t a chance to meet many old friends. 
REV. ED.MUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., Notre Dame executive vice-president, gave a verj- enlightening talk on academic and athletic policies of the Uni­versity. He opened the discussion to the audience and answered many questions put to him by the group. 
Other guests at the dinner included C. P. Enck­son. University of North Carolina .Athletic Director, and Rex Enright, Athletic Director at South Caro­lina. 
—JOHN G. O'CONNELL, '« , Prcs. 

Northern California 
Among ttic autumn events of the X. D. Club of Xorthcrn California was a (color) TV Party for 
GUAM—^Notre Dame men of Guam and their spouses observed Universal N.D. Communion Sunday by attending Mass and receiving Jlol y Commimion at the Dulce Nombrc de Maria Cathedral in Agana. From left: Juan Perez, '56; Lt. (jg) Dave Davin, '56, with Mrs. Cbavin and their son Kevin, '79; Lt. (jg) John Gschwind, '56, and Mrs. Gschwind; Rev. Fr. Fulgence Petrie, OFM, Cap., '58; Mrs. Jerry 
Turley and Lt. Jerry Turley, '54; Mrs. Ed Butschek and Lt Cmdr. Ed Butschek, '43; Mrs. Fred Bordallo and Fred Bordallo, '55; Mrs. 
V. T. BIaz and Capt. V. T. (Ben) Blaz, '51. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 31 
the Notre Dame-Iowa football game November 22, 1958, a repeat of I937's Oklahoma gala, in the Golden Hind Lounge of Frisco's Sir Francis Drake Hotel. Admission \\'as free, refreshments dutch and the ladies, this time, welcome (at their request). Festivities began with a prc-gamc social hour at 
10:15 a.m. NICK PIETROSANTE, Captain AL ECUYER and BRONKO NAGURSKI, Notre Dame's trio in tlie East-West game December 27, were honored after tlie game at the Club's annual Holiday Party at the Mart Club in San Francisco. TIic cvennig featured dancing to the niier\''s orclicstra, candle­
light decor, coiTce-and-sandwich buffet and assorted liquid refreshments at moderate cost. 
Ohio Valley 

Last November the following new officers were elected to lead the OIiio Vallc>* Noire Dame Club: JAMES J. HAR^VNZO, '52, President; J. RAY­MOND KEYS, '49, Vice-President, and J. ALEX DUNN, '53, Sccrclar\--Trcasurer- All three men are residents of Wheeling, W. Va. 
Oklahoma City 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Oklahoma City held 
the annual Notre Dame Communion Breakfast on 

Sundav. December 7, 1958. Mass was celebrated by 
MSGR. BART .MURTAUGH in St. Francis of As­
sisi Church and was followed by the breakfast at 
the Oklahoma City Golf and Countr>- Club. Fifty-
four members and their families were present. 
Msgr. Murtaugh was the guest speaker, and his 

words were of such note that the talk, entitled 
"Tlic Notre Dame Man," was reprinted in the 
Catholic newspaper. Space will not permit the pub­
lication of all of it here, but following arc excerpts: 
'*A fact that cannot escape observation is the 

bond of unity and friendship that unites Notre 
Dame men. It is somelhing unique. It's like is not 
to be found among the graduates of other institu­
tions. Various alumni groups gather and fore­
gather in more or less haphazard fashion, and usu­
ally over a relatively short period of years. But 
the Notre Dame Clubs go on and on. Their mem­
bers, faithful to the lessons taught by .Alma Mater, 
do not stop at meetings. They initiate and carrx­
through worthwhile, constructive programs—spiritu­
al, educational, cultural and social." 
Monsignor Murtaugh said that this drive goes back 

to the spirit of FATHER SORIN, a spirit which 
has manifested itself over the years in a strong de­
sire for excellence and a determination to pursue 
it both in the intellectual and physical arenas. 
Tills spirit, the Monsignor said, has caught the 

imagination of millions in all walks of life. He 
concluded: 
"1 doubt ver>' much that any man who has lived 

on the University campus will lose, entirely, the 
spirit of Notre Dame. Nor will he fail, ever, to 
feel the influence of her whose image stands atop 
the Golden Dome. Her hands outstrctclied, to scat­
ter in lavish fasliion the grace treasures of her 
Divine Son. Her hands outstretdied to plead sinful 
humanity's cause, with a maternal love that can 
flow only from the Immaculate Heart of God's 
Mother. There, through the day, and in the black 
of night, she watches over her faithful sons, on 
campus, or in crowded city, in foreign port, or on 
alien shore — no matter where they may be. 
*'And because of her, your Notre Dame man is 

dilfcrent. Her influence in his life is a liv*ing, 
pulsing thing. It is real. Your Notre Dame man 
is a Lady's man — Our Blcssrd Lady's man. And 
wc thank God that he is what he is — Mary's de­
voted son." 
On December 27 the Club held its annual Clirist­

mas Dance at the Twin Hills Countr\' Club. A 
large attendance made fur a great evening. 
Orange County 
Our first year has come lo an end. It has been a good year for us even thougli we did not have iquite 1009f> attendance at any of our functions. 
We had four good meetings in 1953, starting off %vith Universal Notie Dame Night. It was followed by a family picnic In the summer; then a stag get-together in the fall to watcli the lowa-N.D. game on television. December saw a good turnout for our Communion Breakfast. 
The next meeting was on February-9 for the election of officers. (The first officers were elected for only one year.) Tlie 1959 officers will be an­nounced in the next issue. 
\\'c are now lining up our program for Universal Notre Dame Night. We will again hold the mect­
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, March. 1959 
HARRISBURG —Albert S. Schmidt, left, receives the Harrisburg CluVs Man of the Year Award for his civic scr\*ice and activ­ities in the Church from Club President Donald Meek. Mr. Schmidt, president of Capital Bakers in Harrisburg, has been active in numerous fund campaigns, ci\*ic and charity groups and Church organiza­tions. Award was made at the Notre Dame Communion Breakfast. 
ing at the Disneyland Hotel in Anaheim, Calif., and are making plans for about 100. —BILL VANGEN, Prcs. 
Oregon 

On December 7, 1958, the annual Communion Breakfast was held at the University of Portland. REV. JOHN T. BIGER, C.S.C., celebrated Holy Mass. Among the 50 in attendance were four »f Notre Dame's earliest graduates: DR. WILLIAM A. SHEA, 02; JUDGE FRANK LONERGAN, '(M; DOMINIC a-VLLICRATE, '08, and WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10. Chairman of the affair was THO.MAS .MAGEE. 
Tlic Christmas Holiday Dance, held on January' 2 at the Waverly Countr\' Club, was a really de­lightful event. .Approximately 100 couples were in attendance and included many of the students home for the holidays. JUSTIN MORAN was chairman, and a special "thank you" is in order for his com­mittee, consisting of Mrs. ARTHUR STEVENS, Mrs. PETER MURPHY, Mrs. LOUIS MOR/\N, JIM MOLETIS and PAUL NEWMAN. 
—CHARLES SLATT, Prcs. 


Philadelphia 

Our Communion Breakfast was held on Dec. 7. Mass was celebrated bv our new Club Chaplain FATHER DUFFY, C.S.C. About 200 people at­tended. All of us offered up our Mass and Com­munion for the intention of CARDINAL 0'IL\R/\. MSGR. COX, Rector of St. John's Church in Pliil­adelpliia was the principal speaker at the breakfast immediately following the Mass at the Barclay Ho­tel. Mr. BERNIE WITUCKI awarded the Club's trophy to the outstanding Catholic League Foot­ball player of the year. Tlie award went to Joe Maxwell of LaSalle High School. Congratulations to Chairman GEORGE MITCHELL on a vcr>- fine program. 
At our next meeting January* 13 we elected new club officers. Our guest speaker at this meeting was BUCK SHAW, Coach of the Philadelphia Eagles. The meeting took place at the Philopatrian Literary Institute. JOHN F. MOOREHE.AD was elected to succeed WALTER J. GROTHAUS as president. \VILLIAM WHITESIDE was named vice-president; GEORGE V. MITCHELL, JR., secre­tary-, and BARTON JOHNSON, treasurer. 
Elected lo the board of directors were: WIL­LIAM WHITESIDE, JOHN MOOREHEAD, WAL­

TER GROTHAUS, A. F. DUDLEY, JAMES F. 
LEYDON and CLIFFORD PRODEHL. 
Plans arc now being made for Universal Notrc^ 

Dame Night which will take place on April 6, 1959. 
—JIM LEYDON, *49, Retiring Sec\-. 

Phoenix 
The present officers of the Notre Dainc Club of Plioenix, Ariz., are as follows: President, JOHN R. DOIJ\N% '50; Vice-President. DALE H. STAN­NARD, '45; Secretary-, CHARLES H. BARTLETT, JR., '46, and Treasurer, EDMUND P. CLEARY, '43. Trustees are JOHN G. O'MALLEY, JR.; E. J. HILKERT, and ROBERT D. KENDALL. 
CHARLES BARTLETT, Sec}-. 

Pittsburgh 
A concerted effort was made to correct the Pitts­burgh Club mailing list ii| the fall, and Secretary DON BEBENEK introduced J. WILLIAM Mc-GOWAN to the membership as the new Executive Secretary' who would help expedite club affairs %%'ith the facilities of his ofHce. 
Club attendance was hec\y in Pitt Stadium No­

vember 8 and spirits high at the Pittsburgh Club's 
Pitt-N.D. Rally at the Hotel Webster Hall the 
night before, featuring music, fun and distinguished 
guests. The program cunimittee consisted of JO­
SEPH GASPARELL.\, BERNIE POWERS, ED FAY 
and DICK KLUCK. 
Members and friends watched the Iowa game in ^ 

color at a TV party at the Presidential Arms Nov. " 
22, featuring hot dogs, beer and a half-time draw­
ing for a trip to the Southern California game. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was 

observed with Mass and Breakfast on the campus 
of Duquesnc University December 7. PETE FRI­
DAY was chairman of the event. 
Tlie 33rd annual Christmas Ball was held Decem­

ber 29 in the Urban and Fort Duquesnc Rooms of 
the Penn-Sheraton Hotel for the benefit of the 
Pittsburgh Club Scholarship Fund. Among the fea­
tures was the drawing of a $50 gift certificate. 
GEORGE BROWN and RrVY SLYMAN were co-
chairmen while JOHN VUOXO and GENE CO\'NE 
headed the Patron committee. 
Tlic annual Notre Dame Retreat was conduclet^ 

at St. Paul's Retreat House from Januarv 9 to*" 
Januar>- 11. GEORGE H. KINGSLEY, JR., headed 
the Retreat committee. 
At the annual Family Communion Breakfast Feb. 

15 at Sacred Heart Parish members' families heard 
MSGR. JOSEPH G. FINDLAN describe his recent 
trip to Europe. At a sliort business meeting mem­
bers voted on constitutional changes involving the 
ollicc of Extcutive Secretary- and selection of the 
Notre Dame Man of the Year. 
Rochester 
President DICK KLEE chairmanned a bowling tournament on November 22 with a 1:00 p.m. gct-^ together at the .Atlantic Recreation Center if ^ Rochester. JOHN a\SEY, Club Treasurer, was high man for the afternoon with a score of 211, and there were so many ties for low wc will omit mention of names. 
The group watclied the ND-Iou-a football game following the bowling and were Joined for cocktails and buffet supper by their wives. This was the first bowling event .in recent years and ever>"one attending was enthusiastic about a repeat perform­ance. 
TIic Rochester Club participated in the Universal Communion Breakfast on Sundav, December 14, at Bishop McQuaid High School, DON BOOTH was chairman of the best attended breakfast in clu*4p hislor\'. 
1958 was crowned by JACK NYE DUFFEY and his capable committee with a gala Christmas Din­ner-Dance at the University Club on Saturday, De­cember 27. 
—PHIL A. FINNEG.VN, Secy. 

Rock River Volley 
JOSEPH GUCCIONE, Sterling. 111., has succeed­ed JOHN CAHILL of Dison, 111., as president of the Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley. Other officers of the Club arc: Vice-President, JAMES BALES, Dixon, 111.; Secretary-, ROBERT WAHL, Sterling, III., and Treasurer, VINCE Dc-^ COURSEY, Rochellc, III. '1 ^ 
Our group attended the loiva-Notrc Dame ganic Nov. 22. The trip was a club-sponsorcd alTair. Wc chartered three buses for this area, departing from 
i >y\ 1 

KANSAS CITV — No, this isn't the St. Mary's tea dance committee at St. Angela's Hall, but a gathering of the fair officers of the Aux­iliary to the Kansas City Club: (from left) Airs. George J. McLiney, treasurer; Mrs. T. J. Fleming, recording secretary; Mrs. Robert Nigro, vice-president; Mrs. M. Joseph VanDyke, president; Mrs. Jerry F. Soden, auditor, and Mrs. H. Eugene Vanden Boom, Jr., corre­
Frceport, Dixon and Sterling, and all win llie trip had a most enjo\-abIt: time. —JOSEPH L. GUCCIONE, '40, 
Rome 
(Ed. Xotc: In the Alumni OfHcc mail came two more testimonials for indefatigable Secretary VINCE McALOON* from travelers to tlic Eternal City. Grateful for Vince's many kindnesses to his family on the occasion of his son's ordination and liis daughter's wedding is L/\RRY MULLINS, who wrote, "Vince has a lot on the ball — and he works overtime for Notre Danie people.'* Former 
1^'. D. Professor FRANK W. KERVICK — who met 
PLARRY CORR, '53, a former student of his, and Frank Lancaster^ a cousin of Laetarc ^fedaIist FR.\NK SPE.\R.Mx\N — wrote: "He (McrMoon) has gone out of his way to recall the hospitality that was diaracteristic of Sister Cecilia and the old infirmar}'. I think his method is a better form of promoting loyalty to the University than the 'hail, liail the gang's all here' that I have wit­nessed. I just wonder whether he does this out of the abundance of charity that is cndently his."— Grazic, Vince. J.L.) 
The members of the Rome Club have been privi­leged to witness great historical events here. After mourning the death of our recently acquired hon­orar\' member, PIUS XII, and of Detroit's Cardinal 
fe|\fooney, we joined the Romans in St. Peter's 
^Square to await the election of John XXIII even though our N.D. pravers were directed in favor of our other Club member, aVRDINAL AGAGIANI­AN . Uut Pope John has plenty of the *'get up and go*' ND spirit and who knows but that His Holi­ness may yet be added to our Club roster! 
\Vc all cagerlv awaited the arrival of our dcarlv beloved Cardinal-Elect JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C. Following our congratulatory' cablegram, we de­layed our annual N.D. Communion Day until Car­dinal O'Hara could be with us for the occasion. He said Mass, gave Communion and was enrolled in the Rome Club. 
^ New additions to the Club: A newly arrived 
^'flock" of Holy Cross seminarians to study in Rome. To date we have not captured their names, but a picture will be forthcoming for next issue, identify­ing all. JACK xVNTON, of Chicago, class of '38, has arrived to study for the priesthood. Then JOE DEVINE, who has been transferred from Naples to Turkey as new Air Force school principal. Hew in to spend a week w*ith us. 
Alumni Visitors: .Mr. and Mrs. R^\Y DURST. Mr. Durst is a,member of the University Alumni Board of Directors, Class of '2(i. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. MOORE. John, Class of '11, brought greetings from his son-in-law, JOHN ANN^VS of De­troit, class of '35. FATHER BURTON SMITH, C.S.C., with FATHER McC/VULEY, C.S.C., and 
P
ithcr Holy Cross priests and . brothers, passed through en route to the missions. FATHER PAUL HACKAfAN of Cleveland, '40; KARL E. MAR­TERSTECK, Jr., '56, son of Karl '29, and father of Karl III, ND '79! Mr. and .Mrs. CYRIL NEFF 
sponding secretary. 

of Cleveland, '23, reported in on their sons, TOm, '48, and Charles, '49, and boasted that their mar­riage ceremony was performed by our new CARDI­NAL O'HARA. JERRY CONROY, '58, and PAT KITTRIDGE, '58. JOHN LIESKE, '58, met Fiber Moriarty of St. Ferdinand's, Chicago, here in tlic Club and the latter told of performing wed­ding ceremony of WALTER SMITHE, '58, in Chi­cago. Here in Rome FATHER EDWARD L. HES­TON, C.S.C., our Chaplain, oflicially witnessed the marriage in St. Peter's of CHARLES R. MAC-FARLiVNE, '42, now working for Aramco in Saudi Arabia. Also visiting us: EDWIN M. KINDER­Mx\N, .M.S. '38, Ph.D. '41. Finally, a real old timer, WALTON MacCONNELL of the Minims, '11. Adding a new Club member, TOM DORAN of X'orth American College here, son of BOB DO­R.AN, '26. 
From the N.D. "Fish Pond" at the Scoglio Res­taurant (when the band plays the Victor\' March) Friends of following N.D. men spoke up claiming that .\.D. connection — ED R.\TIGAN, '34; W.M. COTTER, '39; JOHN CH.-VLPA and ED REIDY of Lorain, O.; U\RRY KRAE.MER, '56; Calif.; BOB, JOHN and ED SKEEHxVN, all originally of Pittsburgh; NICK A.MATO, circa '43, on facultv of St. Bonaventure U., .N.Y.; BILL BURTIS, '58, Binghamton, .N.Y.; BILL HILGARTNER, JR., and son HI, classes circa '20 and '44; HAROLD STICK­NEY, '29, Wilmette, 111. 
Rev. Vincent LIoyd-Russell, in charge of San Juan Capistrano, Calif., boasts of his talks to X.D. Clubs; FATHER O'DONNELL of .Mtoona, Pa., claims Cliaplainc>* of our Altoona N.D. Club. 
We happily welcomed FATHER PHIL SCHAERF. C.S.C., once again together with his mother and aunt. Ver\- recent guests at dinner: BROTHER DONATUS, C.S.C., Provincial of Midwest Province, and BROTHER ELMO of the Brothers Eastern Province, here on Visitation. 
EVERYONE WELCOME: Let us know if you plan to come to Rome. Or if your relatives or friends are coming. We are eager to ser\-e up N.D. traditional hospitality "Roman style." Write me, c/o Notre Dame International School for Bo>-s, Via Aurelia 796, Tel.: 621500. 
A new member of the Rome Club who "turned himself in": DR. D/VNIEL MONAGH.\N, '38, a medical officer with the U. S. Army in Vicema, Italy. 
At the Ordination of Holy Cross Fathers here, FATHER BOB AUSTGEN, C.S.C, had as guests his brother David, '56, and Katharine Brazzill, St. Mar>''s grad. 
The whole "MOON" MULLINS family, save one, were in Rome for a double occasion: LARRY "MOON" JR. was ordained to the Priesthood and two days later, in St. Peter's, he officiated at the wedding of his sbtcr, Mary Ellen. Wc were hon­ored with the wedding breakfast, sixty people strong, at our rendezvous, the Scoglio Di Frislo. 
Other arrivals: JIM F. HURLBERT, '28, of De­troit; JOE M. McGEE, '27, here for" the ordina­tion of his son for Louisville diocese. 
Reporting for her father and brother, JIM I. 

SMITH, '24 and JIM JR., '52, was Jackie Smith, St. Mary's, '56. FATHER JOHN NEDLEY, new Procurator for the Oratorlan Fathers reported for JOHN GREEN, area '48. A GI ncphe^v of JOE DUNN, '45, of Rocky Ford, Colo., gave us the word on him. 
And just before mailing time, in came BOB H!L> GER, JR., '56, with his wife. Bob is stationed with the militarv In Germany and Is from Colum­bus, Ind.; his Dad Is BOB HILGER, '32. 
—VINCE McALOON, '34, Secy. 

Saginaw Valley 
The Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club again represented the University at a "College Day" at Midland High School, Midland, Mich., in the fall, distributing literature on Notre Dame to Interested Iiigh school students. 
Our Club joins those around the country* In taking pride in the fact that a former Notre Dame president, .Archbishop O'Hara, has been elevated to the highest honor of Cardinal. 
—CHUCK LENZ, Secy.-Trcas. 

St. Joseph Valley 
Several extremely successful St. Joseph Valley Club actl\*ities are behind us. Five meetings of the Quarterback Luncheon Club were held during the fall season with DICK CLEARY doing the chairman cliorcs. The annual Football Testimonial Banquet was held on December 10 (write-up and pictures in this Issue) under the chairmanship of JOHN E. McIN*T\*RE. Most recently, the first an­nual Club Holiday Dance vfas held on January- 30. JAKE J.ANOWSKI headed the committee for this adalr at the K. of C. Ballroom in South Bend, and it was ver>' enthusiastically received. 
Back on December 7 the Club observed the Uni­versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday with Mass In the Cr\'pt of Sacred Heart Church on the cam­pus and an informal Familv Communion Breakfast in the Nav>- Drill Hall. REV. PHILIP SCH.AERF, C.S.C., pastor of Sacred Heart and director of the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes, gave a moWng sermon on the relationship between Notre Dame men and the Immaculate Conception as manifested to St. Berna­dctte. DICK BURKE was chairman of the event. 
Tlie balance of the 1959 Club actlritles are as follows: March 29, Rocknc Communion Breakfast, Morris Inn following Mais in Dillon Hall; .April 14. Universal Notre. Dame Night at the Morris Inn; May, Old Timers Football game, Notre Dame Sta­dium (date to be announced), benefit of the Scho­larship Fund; June Golf Outing at the Notre Dame Golf Course, Summer Tournament and Barbecue Buffet (date to be announced); August, Family Pic­nic (date and place to be announced), and in the fall the Quarterback Club Luncheons. 
—JOSEPH E. HICKEY, Secy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 33 

MAINE — At last fall's Student Send-oiT Maine Club President Ray Geiger (left) bids good luck to Dick Beauregard of Leniston, Mc, first club scholarship recipient from the Pine Tree State. 
St. Louis 
Our general meeting held Xovcmbcr 10 found some forty or fifty X.D.-iics lifting their glasses on high to toast the Irish football teams of present and years gone by. Tlie affair was held at the FaJslafF BrcM'crj-*s Hospitality House and was high­liglited by a double feature of football. The first feature was the "Highlights of 1957" and the second was a rerun of the Knute Rockne show car­ried on the CBS-TV network's "Twentieth Cen­tury'" show. We obtained a print of the Rocknc films from the local CBS tclcv*ision outlet. BOB McAULIFFE, '55, and his committee did a fine job of handling arrangements for the event. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held Sun­dav, December 7. Club members and their families found iJie talk by FATHER JOHN J. CAVAN­AUG H ver\' inspiring. A question and answer ses­sion following the main talk was also ver>* enlight­ening, JIM CL.\RKE ('44) was cJiaimian of this year's breakfast. 
Tile 1958 annul Christmas Dance was a howling 

success. Tlie date was December 26 and the scene 
was the Khoassan Room of the Chase Hotel. A full 
house of Alumni, wives, students^ dates and friends 
of Xotre Dame danced 'til the wee hours to the mu­
sic of two orchestras. We had a dance band for those 
who graduated prior to 1950 and a DLvieland group 
for the younger and more vigorous-li carted souls 
from '50 and thereafter. Dance chairmen JIM 
PUDLOWSKI ('54) and M.-VTT WElS ('57) and 
the officers and board members are to be congratu­
lated for a wonderful affair. Tlic student members 
of the St. Louis Club of Xotre Dame also have 
our thanks for their fine i^upport. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa 
Officers and directors of the Florida West Coast Club, elected last fall, are as follows; .AL W. JO­HANNES, '2G, President; PAUL NOWAK, ^38, \'icc-Presidcnt; ROY J. DEEB, '48, Secretary-Treas­urer, and, on the Board of Directors, ED MILLER, NACK XEILLV, JA.\fES GLYSS, JAMES FAR­RELL, GENE BITTNER, MARK MOONEY, GUY PERENICK and JERRY RAMSBERGER. Tlie Chaplain is FATHER COLREA\^ of St. Cecelia's Parish, Cleanv-ater, Fla. 
Tlie follawing committee cliairmen were also se­lected; PAUL NOW.\K, ^fcmbe^sllip; A. J. ELLIS, Publidty; JIM GLYNN, Program; ROY J. DEEB, 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Foundation; TOM CANFIELD, Preparator>- School 
Selection; CHARLES BURKE, Wa>-s and Means 
Committee, and JACK NEILLY, Fraternal .Activi­
ties. 
The club is open to all alumni, former students 

and friends of Notre Dame. An annual donation 
of five dollars is all that is required for active 
membership. 
A stag smoker was held at ROY DEEB's home in St. Petersburg November 22, 1958. Members watch­ed the Iowa game on television, and refreshments were serv"cd. 
A Christmas Dinner Dance was held at the Sun­set Golf Club on Snell Isle, St. Petersburg, on Sat­urdav, December 20, 1958. TIic committee for this event, headed bv Mr. and Mrs. JAMES GLYNN, included -Mr. and Mrs. JACK NEILLY, Mr. and Mrs. PAUL NOWAK, Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DEEB, Mr. and Mrs. MARK MOONEY, Mr. and Mre. ED MILLER, Mr. and Mrs. GENE BITT­NER, Mr. aiid Mrs. TO.M CVNFIELD, Mr. and Mrs. DICK HIDDING, Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES TALLEY, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN MARTIN and J.\MES JOHANNES. 
MARK MOONEY was cluiinnan of a pre-Lentcn get-together in Tampa. A Spring Barbecue and bead) party is being contemplated for the late bpring at the end of the tourist season. 
Salina 
Tlie Salina Alumni Club obser\-cd Notre Dame Communion Sunday on December 7 with a break­fast at the Lamer Hotel following Mass at Sacred Heart Cathedral. There was a 75 percent turnout for the iKcasion — nine of 12 members. BOB O'­NEILL, '57, is the newest member of the club. Bob, a native of Chicago, is stationed at Schilling AFB near Salina. Tlie club recently held election of officers. Xeu- officers arc TOM KENNEDY, '51, president; TOM FOOTE, '53, vice-president; and JOHN aARLIN, JR., '38, secretary-treasurer. 
—TOM FOOTE, \'icc-Prcs. 

San Diego 
Tlie Xotre Dame Club of San Diego has had a very busy and eventful year! 
Due to the fine planning of Co-Chairmen TOM CARTER and GORDON BRICKSON, about 40 couples enjoyed a dinner dance on June 6, 1958, at the Admiral Kidd Officers* Club. 
DICK DEREN'THAL and GEORGE GRAINGER arranged the next event taking the Club to the beach for a. refreshing swim with plenty of hot dogs, hamburgers, beer and soft drinks for a vcr>' en-­jo>*ablc outing. After the family beach affair, we headed to the foothills for the annual family picnic which was a big success because of the work done by capable Co-Chairmen J.ACK McCLAREN and DICK MARTIN. 
The Club chartered two buses for a trip to the 

ND-USC game in this area. PHIL MARTIN and 
FRED FOWLER were responsible lor the leg work 
and planning of this ver>* pleasant sojourn to Los 
.Angeles. 
The last event of the year found the Club mcni­
bcn and families at Blessed Sacrament Church to 
participate in Universal X'otre Dame Communion 
Sunday. We were privileged to have MSGR. FRAN­
CIS OTT as the celebrant who delivered a ver>'j 
eloquent and thought provoking sermon regarding" 
this world-wide obsen.-ance of Universal Notre Dame 
Communion Sunday. The ^lass was followed by a 
pot luck dinner in the church hall which was ar­
ranged bv JOHN MORGAN, assisted by HARRY 
MONAHAN. 
—F. J. DAVIS, Prcs. 

Sandusky 
RICHARD C. HOHLER, '47, is president of the Sandusky, Ohio, Notre Dame Club, having succeed-­ed ALFRED SCHNURR, whom we liave been list­ing erroneously in the Club Dircctor>'. 
South Carolina 
TIic X'otre Dame Club ol South Carolina met in Columbia, South Carolina, on December 7 for the annual corporate Communion and breakfast. Tlie following officers were elected for the coming vcar; JOE JUDGE, President; RON McMANUS, Vice-Prtsident; JERRY MERZ, Secretar>-Trcasurcr. The Board of Directors includes BILL DUNHAM, NEIL McMANUS, BILL GWINN, JOE CONDON, RO­GER PRICE, and RON MEr\LEY. 
Plans Were made for group attendance at the 

Notre Dame - North Carolina basketball game hi 
Charlotte on January' 3. 
TERRY McMANUS became a father for the sixth 
time recently. Terr>* is still trailing JOE COyOOS^ 
in the stork derby though — Joe is expecting num-'"­
bcr seven in the near future. 
JOE JUDGE was promoted to manager at Orkin. 
Inc., in Charleston, S. C. 
JOE CONDON vvas elected president of Condon and Sons, Charleston's largest department store. Joe is the youngest president in the company's his-tor\'. 
ED DAILEY, the founder of the Notre Dame Club of South Carolina, was transferred to the Birmingham office of the Byron-Jackson Co. 
—GEIC\LD F. MERZ, Secj-.-Trcas. 

Southeastern Iowa 
The X'otre Dame Club of Southeastern Iowa mct-IB at tlie home of .Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN A. DAILEY.'­JR., 201 Spring Street, Burlington. Iowa, October 29, 1958. Tu"enly-four were present for a dinner meeting. .Mr. ROLAND J. MARTEL, '43, was elected President of the Club for 1958-59. The Club made plans to sponsor a bus to attend the Notre Dame - Iowa game, Xovember 22. 
The next dinner meeting was held at the home of Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DEL.ANEY, 2505 Sur­rey Road, Burlington, Iowa. 
Spokane 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane.^ together with their, wives, observed Universal Xotre y Dame Communion Sunday by attending Mass, De­cember 7, at the Cathedral of Our Lady of Lourdcs in Spokane. Breakfast at the Ridpath Hotel fol­lowed the Mass,.with the Very Rev. EDMUXD W. MORTON, S.J., President of Gonzaga University, as tlic guest speaker. Father Morton's most in­teresting talk stressed the urgent need of providing both Catholic and private educational facilities for the expected enormous increase in school popula­tion in the next 10 years; the alternative might well be a retrogression in our standard of living. The uniquely beneficial effect on other subjects in the curriculum of the inclusion of theoIog>* in Cath­olic education u^as another facet of Father Morton's scholarly discourse. ^ h 
FRANK J. HAGENBARTH, JR., '27, retiring* Club President, uas in charge and following the breakfast conducted the election of new officers. Elected were AR.MONDE R. ALBO, *35, President; CHARLES A. MARQUELING, *50. Vice-President; 
and JOSEPH M. WALSH, '41, Secretary-Treasurer. ^ Members of the Club, some of the wives, and a "few guests, gathered in the Tap Room of the Bo­
hemian Brewer^' to watch the TV broadcast of the Iowa game on November 22. Despite the disap­pointing outcome of the game a good time was enjoyed b>* all present. 
Members of the Club and their wives enjoyed their annual holiday get-together at the attractivelv spacious home of FR/VNK H:\GENBARTH, JR.*, *27, on the evening of December 27. Tlic affair was an open-house with a delicious buffet luncheon Served by the ladies under the direction of Mrs. CHARLES A. MARQUELING. 
Special guests were the following students home 

from the University for the holidays: Garv- Myers, ^Dennis Johnston, and Peter Bourbeau. Following |fClub members and their wives were present: MONK 
ALBO, *35; ED BETHKE, '28; FR.\NK HERRON, '35; FR.\NK HAGENBARTH» JR., '27; JI.M LYNCH, '40; DR. BOB MAHER, '35; and JOE \V.\LSH, '14. 
—JOSEPH .M. WALSH, '14 
Terre Haute 
(Ed. Note: Since the August 15, 1958. report was omitted by mistake in the last issue, we include it with a new report.—^J.L.) 
Tlie Terre Haute Chapter celebrated Universal 

Notre Dame Night for 1958 on April 14 at the ^ Terre Haute House with FATHER J. E. NORTON, ^C.S.C , as guest speaker. His message on Notre 
Dame's long range program was very keenly re­ceived by the eighty members and guests. 
TIic '58-'59 year has seen new officers responsible: DREWIE CrVVENDER, '46, president; DICK KEL­LY, '43, Wce-prcsident; PAUL MARIETTA, '46. secretary'; CHARLES MET2GER, '47, treasurer. 
Tlie Terre Haute House has graciously offered our club the nccessar\- facilities to hold our regu­lar monthly meetings. This is one of the many grateful deeds our organization has received from the citizens of Terre Haute. . . . ours is a young ctiib of only three years. 
BERNIE BURDICK (plant manager of the local Stran-Stcel Corp.) was the very popular choice of 

^ ^ the "Man-of-the-year" award. Bcrnic has been re­
"V cognized as a tremendous worker for Notre Dame and our club. Hb; interests and activities are from many preWous years with especial attention to aiding young men in Notre Dame. 
Our annual summer picnic was held at the Saddle Club with over fifty members and their families en­joying the wonderful sunshine. The children had fun digging for $4.50 of change that was hidden in a large pile of sawdust — needless to say, the parents had tun watching the sawdust i!y! BERNIE BUROICK and his committee were responsible for this event. 
The Schultean award (our local club's award to the outstanding senior in our local Catholic High School. . . . Schultc) was presented to Dan Dan­
^ ^ iieiibrink, who was outstanding in leadership, sciio­
* ^ lastic acliievcmcnt, and ber\"ice to las school. Our annual Communiun Breakfast was held at the Terre Haute House Sunday, Dec. 7. Mass was celebrated at Sacred Heart Church with FATHER CULHANE officiating. Our guest Speaker was DR. THOMAS CARNEY of Eli Lilly Co.; Dr. Carney, a very outstanding Notre Dame Alumnus, is head ol the Pliarmaceutical Research Dept. at the Lilly plant in Iiidianapulis, Ind. He delivered a very in­fonnative talk on Science and Education, empha­sizing the importance of each individual to strive to raise his sights nut to the average, but to the highest. .. . this is necessary* in every field of en­
^ deavor. The 1957 N.D.-S.M.U. football game film, 
9 as well as the Rockne film (as shown on the 20th CentiiiA- TV program) were presented. Committee responsible was composed of: JI.M E. SULLIVAN, Chairman; DREWIE aWENDER, RAY KE.\RNS, BERNIE BURDICK, FRED CHRISMAN and PAUL MARIETTA. 
The N.D. football games were seen by our mem­bers, but one, Beriiie Burdick, can boast of cheer­ing ever>' game personally except the Southern Cal. . Our Schuitc Catholic High had a must wonder­ful season on the gridiron highlighted by winning the (Hty Championship. Our congratulations to our own PETE VARDA, head coacli, who has done a bang-up job again this season. 
Some new arrivals in our families. Maureen Mur­phy, of the **BLACK-JOHN" and Aggie union, ar­
• rived Sept. 3. Pete and Mar>' Varda are mighty proud of their son whom they adopted; June 20 was his arrival time. The Bcrnic Burdicks have a new little gal, Jane with August 17 as her birtli-
THE PROMPTER'S BOX (Ed Note: Sometimes a new idea or adapta­tion of an old one can stir a dormant club to new activity. We hope to make this a regular feature and invite your comments and sugges­tions.—J. L.) FATHERS AND SONS Club events with a **dads-and-Iafls" motif are becoming more and more popular with the 'Notre Dame Clubs. Originally fostered as a "natural" for Universal Notre Dame or Knutc Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfasts, the idea has taken root with many chapters and produced some happy ramifications. The generic "father-and-son" is broad enough to include either the parents or offspring of alumni, the parents of present or prospective students or— frequently—all at once. Last July the Pittsburgh Club announced "something a little different in the way of a summer activity"—a "Father-and-Son Baseball Night," combining a leisurely no-program dinner and a triti to a Pirates-Braves night game. The Buffalo Club h:is been running similar sports-centered affairs (with campus guests) in conjunction with the N.D.-Canisius basketball games. The "father-and-son" gim­mick has been applied to picnics, retreats, ral­lies, TV parties, etc., with great success and may some day spur "molher-and-daughter" com­petition from the auxiliaries. 
date. The CHARLES METZGER family has added a son, Ilenrv-, and his arrival was Sept. 9, 1958. 
If any alumnus is in the vicinity of Terre Haute he would be most welcomed to our meetings which arc held on. the third Tuesday of each mouth at 
7:30 p.m. in the Terre Haute House. Hope to see 
some travelers soon. —PAUL A. .MARIETTA, Secy. 
Twin Cities 
The Notre Danjc Club of the Twtn Cities held its annual Christmas Ball December 29 in the Hall of States, Leamington Hotel, Minneapolis. Alumnt, undergraduates and the public danced to the music of Tony Grisc and his orchestra. THOMAS Mc­DOXx\LD was chairman, and the ball' was very-successful. A month before we heard FATHER THOMx\S O'DONNELL, whom we thoroughly en­joyed. Outside of group functions we have started a ixillege counseling committee in which we have talked to many seniors of private schools in this area concerning Notre Dame. The Notre Dame film has been shown to numerous clubs and groups in the area. 
Toledo 
Tlie meeting of the Toledo Notre Dame Club's Board of Directors was held, later than usual last year, to elect the club's officers for tlic year 1958-59. The officers are: President, JOSEPH R. HILLE­BR.-\ND, '43; Vice-President, FR.\NCIS .M. JOYCE, '36; Treasurer, CHARLES M. SCHIR.\, '46; Sec­retary-, MARSHALL R. DES.MOND, '54. 
The Toledo Notre Dame Club sponsored two foot­ball trips last fall. One to the Duke game and the other to the Notre Dame-Purdue game. The Purdue game was a sell-out, and the Duke tickets moved well. The chainnan for these trips was P.\UL M. KR.AUS, Commerce '54. Law '37. 

In September the Toledo Xolre Dame Club held its annual **going away" party for those students returning to Notre Dame and their fathers. The members of the Class of 1962 and their fathers were honored guests. 
Plans Were formulated for the N.D. Christmas Dance whiclt is always the highlight of the Club's social season. This time the dance was held in the Great Lakes BalJroom of the Toledo Club. 

Toledo Notre Dame men will miss LEO B. ENG­LISH, '35. "Barney" English was the president of the Napoleon Creamery, and an outstanding exam­ple of wliat a Catholic layman should be. He was a very active member of the Christian Family .Mo*'c­ment and the St. Vincent Dc Paul Society in To­ledo. It was he who reacti\'atcd the Notre Dame Club of Toledo after Worid War 11. 
—MARSHALL R. DESMOND, '54. Sec>-. 
Tri-Cities 

The annual Notre Dame - Iowa rally dance was held at the Hotel Blackhawk on Friday evening, November 21, and was attended by approximately 250 persons. JOHN O'DONNEL, Sports Editor of 
The Davenport Monuns Democrat, wzs the mas­
ter of ceremonies and introduced speakers FATHER 
EDMUND JOYCE. C.S.C., JOHN LUJACK and 
members of the Iowa club. The feature speaker 
was JOE ROLAND. The following morning 80 club 
members left for the game in Iowa City by char­
tered busses, which were arranged for by AL WADE. 
On Sunday, December 7, 40 Notre Dame alumni 

attended the annual Communion Breakfast. WALT 
DRAY was chairman for this event. A short busi­
ness meeting was held following the breakfast. The 
speaker was FATHER THOMAS TAYLOR. 
—WILLIA.M J. LAFFAN, Secy.-Treas. 

Tulsa 
It is with much sorrow that we report the death 

of Joseph A. Moran (30), who died a victim of leu­
kemia on Friday, October 17. 
The Notre Dame Club of Tulsa will miss the help 

and the guidance Joe gave the Club since its incep­
tion. 
—JACK MOHATT, Secy. 


Virginia 
On December 7 our club observed Universal No­

tre Dame Communion Sunday, ^fass was follmvcd 
by a breakfast, at which our guest speaker u'as 
Bishop John J. Russell of the Diocese of Richmond. 
The ^fass and breakfast were attended by 82 alum­
ni, associate members, wives and children. I men­
tioned at our breakfast that April 6, Universal No­
tre Dame Night, our guest speaker would be REV. 
THOMAS BRENNAN, CS.C. The enthusiasm re­
sulting from this announcement was tremendous. I 
am. writing this for our secretary, PAUL NOTT, 
who was unable to be In Richmond for the Com­
munion Suudav. 
—CHARLES A. LA FRATTA, Pres. 

Washington, D. C. 
On Halloween the Notre Dame-Navy Rally and 

Dance was held in the Presidential Room of the 
Statler Hotel. There were distinguished guests 
from both Notre Dame and Annapolis in a program 
emceed by JIM GIBBONS, a choral concert and 
dancing to a 12-piece band. On November 22 an 
Iowa-N.D. TV party was very ^vell attended. 
On December 7, Mass and Communion were fol­

lowed by breakfast at Holy Cross College. GRA­
HAM ^V. McGOWAN, '43, special assistant to the 
Secretary of Commerce, was the speaker, and at­
tendance was excellent. 
For the Januar>' 23 meeting the speaker was 

Msgr. John Tracy Ellis of Catholic University. The 
meeting was held in the Sheraton-Carl ton Banquet 
Room and was arranged by BILL MIDDENDORF. 
Fcbruar\-6 ^\-as the night of the JOE KUH.A­

RICH Testimonial. It featured entertainment by 
the Mount Vernon Guard and Am-.y Chorus, the 
awarding of trophies to outstanding Catholic high 
school football players, and outstanding campus 
representatives. "DUTCH" BERGMAN was toast­
mzster^ and BOB HUTCHISON w ^ chainnan. 
Western Wasliington 
Tile Fall Smoker of the Notre Dame Club ol Western U'ashlngton was held i\ow 5 at the ^Vash­ington .\thlctic Club. It featured the Notre Dame Football Hi-Lites, plus a prime beef dinner, bever­ages, cigars, etc. DON SULLIV^VN was the chair­man. 
Tile club held its annual Immaculate Conception Communion Sunday on December 14, attending afternoon Mass at St. James Cathedral followed by-dinner at the Sorrento Hotel. The guest speaker was Bishop Gill. Wives and guests were welcome. JOE LOTTA was chairman. 
Youngstown 
The Notre Dame Club of Youngstown obser%-cd Universal Notre Dame Sunday with a Communion Breakfast at the Missionaries of Sacred Heart No­vitiate. The Rev. Fred Balling, MSC, master of novices for tlie Nontiate. was the speaker. 
THO.MAS KERRIG.AN uas installed as president and WILLIAM BORD as •ecrctarv-treasurer. 
C. WILLIAM EATON, AL DOHAR, PHILIP VAN HUFFEL, GEORGE WELSCH, CILVRLES McCRUDDEN, Jr.; PAUL KANE and WALTER RAU H were responsible for the almost one hundred percent attendance. 
BILL LYDEN's company, the Lydcn Oil Co., was the subject of a feature article In the December issue of "National Petroleum News" which is the '"Bible" of the gasoline Industry. 
—BILL BORD, *54, Secy. 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 3S 
^f.Vfff*rf^f\ \A >^ ^ Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES .MENEGAY, '37, a daugh­ter, Mary Lisa, July 3, 1958. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT WEINER, '57. a son.,-Midiael Robert, March 26, 1938. <« .Mr. and .Mrs. GEORGE BRA.MER, '38, a son, October 22, 1958. 
1L¥] CUsSES ^ 
.Mr. and .Mrs. D,\NIEL O'BRIEN, 38, a daugh­ter, Mary Loube, September 28, 1938. 
Engagements 

Miss Moira Dunne and EDWARD A. DESLOGE, '47. .Miss Mar»- P. Garrett and DR. WALTER F. JUDGE, '49. .Miss .Angela .M. Casc>- and C. RICHARD MAR­SHALL, '51. Miss Marilyn D. Fricl and ALLEN" J. POWERS, '31. .Miss Mar%- M. Godin and A^THO.^•Y A. VAS­
SALO, '32. Miss Margaret Quisli and JA.MES DURKIN, '54. Miss ^iartlla .Ann Parr and JOHN REDDEN, '54. Miss Kathleen M. -Median and JOHN J. SMITH, 
'55. Miss Patricia V. Sctianni and ROBERT W. GELFOND, '56. Miss Sarah Jane Shorcwood and THOMAS L. MUL&\HY, JR., '57. Miss Natalie W. Donoghuc and DONALD G. URIAX, '38. Miss Margaret Kohlbrcnner and PETER E. KRESS, '59. 
Marriages 

Miss Beltv Jane Murphy and WILLIAM B. GOR­MAN, JR., '52, Brooklyn, N.Y., September 6, 1938. Miss .Marlcnc Rapalino and JAMES R. GRAHAM, '52. Parsons, Kans., January 3, 1959. Miss Maureen Washington and JOHN E. CLAR­KEN, '53, Fair Lawn, N. J., November 23, 1938. Miss Mar;- Louise Edclbacli and DR. EDWARD 
R. O'CONNOR, '54. Washington, D. C , October 17, 1938. Miss Faith Lynn Ritchie and CHARLES R. DU-RYEtV, '33, Amitwillc, N.Y., September 6, 1958. Miss Doris .Amortegui and EUGENE W. LESMEZ, '53, New York City, December G, 1958. Miss Nanc^- J. Walpole and FR,\NKL1N R. a\P ­PELLLNO, '36, Osivego, N.Y., December 27, 1958. Miss Carolyn Sue Pfeilcr and JOHN T. .M.ASS­MAN, '36, Kansas Citv, Mo., October 18, 1938. -Miss Betty .Anderson and MICHAEL .MULLINS, '56, Milwaukee, Wis., January 10, 1959. Miss Gertrude D. Watt and PAUL W. REILLY, '56, New York City, N.Y., November 8, 1938. Miss Janet R. Denys and WILLIAM D. BRO­DERICK, '57, Green Bay, Wisconsin, November 22, 
1958. Miss Rosemary R. Firmbach and ENS. FR.AXCIS 
G. LU'NDEN, '57, Manhasset, L. I., November 29, 1938. -Miss Gertrude Croxall and JOHN J. .McDER-MOTT, '57, Notre Dame, Ind., September 22, 1938. .Miss Theadora Rcid and GEORGE R. .MURRAY, '37, Notre Dame, Ind., September 13, 1938. 
Miss Honorc V. de St. Aubin and RICHARD W. O'BRIEN, JR., '57, New Rochelle, N.Y., Septem­ber 6, 1938. 
ifiss -Marie XL Fcrrier and EXI.M.AXUEL P. RIVAS, III, '37, New Orleans, La., December 26, 1938. 
Miss Frances A. DcWalcli and LT. JG. GEORGE 

W. STRAKE, JR., '57, Houston, Tc-cas, Januari- 10. 1959. Miss Jean L. Harrison and LT. EDWARD J. B.ANKS, '58, Notre Dame, Ind., January 3, 1959. 
Miss Rosemary A. Corcoian and 2nd Lt. WAL­TER A. DONNELLY, JR., '58, Cortland, N.Y., August 23, 1958. 
Miss MUdred D. Ryan and JOHN J. FLANA­GAN, JR., '38, Spring Lake, N. J., .August 16, 1958. Miss Ellen M. McDcrmott and GIFFORD T. 
GIBSON, '58, Oshkosh, Wis., October 11, 1958. Miss Charleen T. Kissinger and LT. FRED W. KREUSCH, '58, Tenafly, N. J., October 25, 1958. Miss Rosemary Bauer and RICHARD M. LEACH, '38, Chicago, lU., January 31, 1939. .Miss Mao- Lou Beyer and DAVID A. PAIRITZ, '58, South Bend, Ind., September 27, 1958. Miss Marilyn Jo Ranschaert and JOSEPH P. RICH, '38, South Bend, Ind., November 8, 1938. 
Miss Gloria H. Van Volkom and DONALD C. SCHMIDT, '58, Lj-ndhurst, N. J., September 20, 1938. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
.Miss Susan XIcGrath and HARRY E. SMITH, JR., '33. Slaten Island. N.V., October 23, 1938. Misi Norriac A. Bruce and JAMES A. WATERS, JR., "33. .Voire Dame. Ind., Novem'scr 22. 1938. 
Births 

.Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH F. RUDD, '29, a son, James McGarry, December 17, 1938. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN P. BURNS, '34, a daughter, October 13, 1958. Dr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS J. GIORGIO, '33, a son, Patrick John, January 28, 1939. -Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK FISHER, '33, a daugh­ter, Mary Rosalie, October 7, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS L. HICKEY, JR., '33, a son, October 5, 1958. .Mr. and .Mrs. JOHN JORDAN, '35, a daughter, December 31, 1938. .Mr. and -Mrs. HARRY P. GOTTRON, JR., '41, a daughter, Carol Ann, October 22, 1958. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN WALTERS LARSON, '41, a son, Robert John, December 6, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. MADDEN, '42, a son Daniel Stephen, November 3, 1938. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE UHL, '42, a son, Jona­than Charles, December 29, 1958. Mr. and -Mrs. BERNARD P. WOJCIK, '42, a daughter, Linda Marie, November 25, 1958. -Mr. and Mrs. DOMINIC BOETTO, '44, a daugh­ter, Sara Bemadette, October 16, 1938. -Mr. and .Mrs. RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, JR., '43, a son, Michael Joseph, December 14, 1958. .Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. ERKINS, '45, a daughter, Melanie, August 13, 1938. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT SNEE, '43, a daughter, Margaret Ellen, January 29, 1939. Dr. and Mrs. EDWARD SCOTT, '46, a daugh­ter, Maureen Virginia, November 24, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. WILLUM L. WHITELY, '48, a daughter, Patricia Ann, October 16, 1938. .Mr. and Mrs. CALLIX E. .MILLER, JR., '49, a son, Joseph Anthony, September 17, 1958. -Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES A. CARRIG, '51. a daugh­ter, Cyntliia Cathleen, November 1, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. MARK H. BERENS, '51, a son, Joseph, September 20, 1938. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM KLEE, '51, a son, Jo­seph Christopher, July 26, 1938. Mr. and -Mrs. JA.MES V. LAUGHLIN, '31, a son, James Midiael, November 3, 1958. Mr. and -Mrs. DONALD J. FAGER, '52, a daugh­ter, Gwen Anne, November 7, 1958. -Mr. and -Mrs. W1LLU.M F. GALLO, '52, a daughter, Jeanne Marie, August 15, 1938. Mr. and .Mrs. J. GARVEY JONES, '32, a daugh­ter, Kathleen .Ann, September 30, 1958. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN DONOHUE, '53, a daugh­ter, Mary Patrida, November 5, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. PAT LYNCH, '53, twin sons, Tim­othy and Terrencc, April 23, 1958. .Mr. and Mrs. JOHN B.ABCOCK, '54, a son, Tliomas John, November 17, 1958. Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES E. BINKLEY, '54, a daughter, Patricia Joan, September 5, 1958. Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES CORCORAN, '54, a son Laurence Terrencc, December 27, 1958. -Mr. and -Mrs. GERRY FINNEY, '54, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, October 1, 1938. Mr. and Mis. ROBERT J. FRIES, '54, a son, Robert John, Jr., October 5, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. .MANUEL SEQUEIRA, JR., '54, a son, Joseph Manuel, January 12, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHON"Y J. TRIGIANI, '54, a daughter, Luda Anna, October 13, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. BRENNAN, JR., '56, a son, John William III, October 13, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS COLE, '36, a son, David Douglas, October 29, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL J. INEICH, '56, a son, Paul Joseph II, November 1, 1958. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS KERSHISNIK, 36, a son, Daniel John, December 30, 1938. Mr. and ilrs. JEROME J. KLEIN, '37, a daugh­ter, Margaret Ann^ September 30, 1938. Mr., and Mrs. JOHN MANION, 56, a son, Kevin Patrick, October 29, 1938. 
Sympatiiy 

GEORGE W. PHILBROOK, '12, on the death of his wife, December 18, 1958. FR.ANCIS X. DISNEY, '23, on the death of his mother, Januarj- II, 1959. JOSEPH P. .McKEOWN, '24, on the death of his wife, September 26, 1938. THOMAS F. QARFAGNO, '23, on Uic death of^-^ his father, October 12, 1938. V ARTHUR H. SUDER, '26, on the death of h"is father, Februar%- 2, 1939. 
W. WADE SULLIVAN, '26, on the death of his mother, October, 1938. THO.MAS -MADDEN, '27, on the death of his mother, Nox'ember 18, 1958. 
REV. JOHN J. HILL, '30, and PETER J. HILL, '33, on the death of their mother, December 10. 1938. 
THO.MAS F. GOLDEN, '31, on the death of his mother, November 7, 1958. 
O. DONALD HERRON, '34, on the death of his mother, December 23, 1958. BERNARD WlTUCKl, '34, on the death of his mother, November 14, 1958. W 
ROBERT A., '45 and JA.MES W. OBERFELL, '48, on the death of their mother, December 31. 1958. 
EDWARD B. KUNKLE, '48, on the death of his father, October 19, 1958. 
Deaths 

JULES P. GOLDSTEIN, Class of 1895, Rliode Island's oldest Xotrc Dame graduate, died January 19 in Prondcnce. A manufacturing jeweler, lie was nuincd "Notre Danic Man of the Year" in 1955 by tlic Rhode Uland Club. He retired four years ago from Jules P. Goldstein and Co. Sur\'ivors are his wife and son. ^-x 
VLVCENT B. WELKER, '01, died November 17 W in Howard, Ohio, after a long illness. Sur\-ivors are his widow and two sons. 
EDWARD J. PEIL, '(H, died December 29 tn North Hollywood, Calif., after an illness of one year. He was one of the early actors in the mo­tion picture.business and u-as active up to the time of his illness. He was a Monogram man in 1900-01. Survivors are his widow, a daughter and a son. 
JOHN W. MURPHY, '08, died November 21, ac­cording to word received in the Alumni Office from his daughter. 
M.\XIMIL1AN J. ST. GEORGE, '08, died Febru­ary 7 in Wilmette, III., according to word received in the Alumni Office. Sur%"ivors arc his widow, a daughter and a son. ^'' 
SELDEN L. TRUMBULL, '08, died October 10, ^ 1957, according to word received in the xUumnI Of­fice. His widow surxives. 
JOHN J. "RED" MURR.\Y, '09, died Decem­ber 4 in Sa>-re, N.Y. He resided in Elmira since 1901 and was one of Elmira's baseball greats where he also ser\'cd as recreation director from 1939 un­til 1956 when he retired. Sur\'ivors include his wife, a daughter and a son. 
CARL PICK, '11, died Januar>- 12 in West Bend. Wis. He was a prominent industrialist and civic leader of West Bend where he organized the Pick Manufacturing Co. and Pick Industries. Sur\'iving arc his \*"ido%\*, a daughter and two sons. His son, , > ROBERT B., graduated from Notre Dame in 1939. % 
LEO J. CONDON, *I2, died in November, 195;t, in Pana, III., according to word received in the Alumni Office. He was a retired electrical engineer. 
WILLIAM N. HOGAN, SR., '13, died January­7 in Wheeling, W. Va. He was retired president of the W. N. Hogaii, Inc., and the West Virginia Appliance Co., and was prominent in many local civic affairs. He ser\-ed in World \\'ar I and was a member of the Notre Dame Monogram Club. Surv'iving arc his widow, two daughters and two sons. His son, WILLIAM, JR., graduated from No­tre Dame in 1951. 
PAUL J. SMITH, '16, died October 18 in Indi­anapolis, Ind., according to word received in the Alumni Office. '' 
STEPHEN E. CARMODY, '22, died December 27 ^ in CarlinWlIc, III., according to word received in the Alumni Office. Sur\i\*ors arc bis wife and two daughters. 
NEW YORK CITY — One of the last public appearances of the late great Jack Lavelle (center, at mike) before his death in December was as master of ceremonies for the New York Club's annual Kick-Off Meeting, held in Rupert's Tap Room last October. Speakers included Colonel Francis Roberts, West Point's manager of athletics (left), and N.D. Alumni H Secretary Jim Armstrong. The club is raising a fund for Jack's widou- and children. 
CVRLTON B. MAINO, '23, died August 26 in Michigan Center, Mich.; after an illness of several months, according to word received in the Alumni Office. Survivors are his wife arid three sons. 
JOSEPH E. O'BRIEN, '23, died .\ovcmbcr 21 in Bradford, III., according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
JAMES I. SMITH, JR., '24, died May II, 1957, according to word received from his son James I. Smith, III, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1953. 
h ' HARRY M. AMBROSE, '25, died February-8 in 
•^ Washington, D. C , where he was a government architect for 31 years. He is sur\-ivcd by liis wife. 
ROBERT D. "SLICK" O'NEIL, '25, died .August 22, in Chicago, 111., according to word received in the Alumni Qflicc. He is surx'ivcd by his wife. 
ALLEN .M. FOLEY, '26, died December 24 In South Bend, Ind., where he was the co-owner of the Foley Adjustment Bureau. Sur\'ivors arc his mother, a sistL-r and brother. 
CL.\RENCE HAVEN, AB '26, LLB '28, died in Detroit, Midi., on September 8, according to word received in the Alumni Oilice. 
JOHN F. O'DONNELL, '26, died January- 23 in Maysvillc, Ky. He w-as editor of the "Public 
7 Ledger" the paper which he joined the staff in 1933. Serving in the Na\->- during World War II he wrote a column for the service paper. He was active in many civic affairs in Maysville including ser\-ing as City Commissioner. His widow sur\'ives. 
.MSGR. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, '26. died sudden­ly November 10 in Syracuse. N.Y., where he serx'cd as head of the Catholic Charities. His list of ac­tivities in S'j-racuse were great including many Na­tional Charities of which he was president. Sur­vivors are a sister and three brothers, FRiVNCIS, '34, JOHN, '39, and WILLIAM. 
PATRICK HYLAND, '29, died December, 1958. in Indianapolis, Ind., according to word received \ in the Aluniiii Office. 
GER^\LD HARRINGTON, '30, died November 27 in Des Moines, Iowa. He was a former President of the Notre Dame Club of Dcs Moines. Surviving is his widow. 
SISTER M. LUDIVINE O'NEILL, B.V.M., '30, died in Chicago, III., in Novembtr, 1958, according to Word received in the Alumni Office. 
JOSEPH A. MORAN, AB *30, LLB '32, died Oc­tober 18 in Tulsa, Okla. He was active in many Catholic circles and a prominent law\-er in Tulsa. Surx'ivors include his widow*, three sons, Brian and William, students at Notre Dame, and two daugh­ters. 
KARL WEIGAND, '30, died In South Bend, Ind., Januarj' 19- He was a fonner member of the No­tre Dame Faculty- Sur\'ivors arc his widow, three daugliters and two sons. Karl, Jr-, Is now attend­ing Xotrc Dame. 
RALPH FURSTOSS, '33, died December 23 in Peoria, III. Sur\'ivors arc his widow and son, James A., now attending Notre Dame. 
CHARLES I- COY, '37, died December 19 in EI Paso, Texas. He is sur\*ivcd by his wife and three children. 
REV. VICTOR F. DEAN, C.S.C., '41, died De­cember, 1958, at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C., where he was a faculty member. He taught at Moreau Seminary and was a member of the No­tre Dame Faculty. 
REV. GEORGE SPLONSKOWSKI, O.S.B., '47, died June 6, 1958, In Rlchardton, N. Dak. He was a member of the Assumption Abbey Faculty in PJcIiardton. 
DANIEL G. SUTOLOVIC, '48, died November 30 at Montrose, N.Y., according to word received from his sister. 
BERNARD A. LONCZ.\K, '52, died in BufTalo, N.Y., on November 9, according to word received in the Alumni Office. Sur\*ivors Include his wife and a son. 
DR. THO>f.VS R. PATTERSON, '53, died No­vember 10 in an explosion at the Morton Salt Com­pany laborator>- at Woodstock, 111., where he w-as employed as a research chemist. Sur\'ivors arc his widow and four children. 
CHARLES J. WEBER, '54, died in an auto ac­cident on July 4. 1957, according to word received in the .-Vliimni Office from Ins widow, who sur^-ives. 
ROBERT J. CARTER, '55, died in an airplane crash on AitgiLst 17 in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was employed as a chemist at the Oak Rldgc National Laborator>'. He is sur\'ivcd only by liis mothct-'. 
PATRICK W. CURR^VN, '57, died July 10, 1958, following heart surgery- in Oskoloosa, Iow*a- Sur­vivors are his parents and a brother, John, now at­tending Notre Dame-
CLUB 
Our 6rst note is a sad one. In one of those acci­dents that occur too frequently the Alumni Office was never informed of the death of JOHN JOSEPH SaVLES, '08, on September 14, 1950. The first indication the office had was the return of mail sent to Mr. Scales marked "deceased." Mr. Scales was residing in East Lansing, Michigan, at the time of his death. The prayers of friends and classmates for the repose of his soul-would be appreciated. 
JOSEPH CREPEAU, '07, has left South Bend for Ba>-shore Gardens, Bradenton, Florida, to be near his son and daughter-in-law. 
Rhode Island Alumni uill miss JULES GOLD­STEIN, '95, said to be the oldest and certainly-one of the most devoted of the state's "Fighting Irish." He treasured his 50-Year Club medal and **N. D. Man of the Year" award even more than the golf ball with which he once made a hole in one. One of his proudest moments came when an 
N. D. Glee Club concert %\-as dedicated to him. Also on the list of the missing and missed this num­ber: VINCENT WELKER, '01; EDWARD PEIL, '04; JOHN .MURPHY, MAX ST. GEORGE, and SELDEN TRUMBULL, '08. 
JUNE I2-I3I4 
1910 
On November 1, 1958, Baltimore witnessed the reunion of classmates -M. HARRY (RED) MILLER of Wilmington, Delaware, and WILLIAM C. (BILL) SCH.\HTT of Portland, Oregon, ar the Na\-y game. Harry says, "Bill and I are very close friends of 50 years and more, including four years at N.D. We played football together for four years and did a lot of sweating and bleeding for old N.D." 
105 S. LaSaUc St. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers Chicago 3, Illinois 
From the .Alumni Office: Prayers of classmates arc requested for the repose of the soul of CARL PICK, who died January 12 in West Bend, Wis., of a cerebral hemorrhage due to a skull fracture suffered In a fall at his farm west of the city. Carl was ^vcU known as an in­dustrialist, haWng founded several local companies. S\-mpathv is extended to his widow and to sons -Man and BOB PICK, '39­
1912 ^-J- **Beii" Kaiser 604 East Tenth S t Berwick, Pa. 
From the Alumni Office: Completely recovered from last year's illness, REV. BERNARD LANGE, C.S.C., was recently the subject of a very interesting newspaper article which stated that he can still lift a barbell weigh­ing more than 400 pounds. Once ranked as the fourth strongest man in the world and still posses­sor of the world's record for the supine press. Father Langc has slowed down since five years ago when he could dead lift 525 pounds. 
191 3 Paul R. Byrne 
•'•^ 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 
From the iUumni Office: CLYDE E. BROUSS.ARD was in on the climax of a courtship that spanned eight years and half the globe last S'ovcmbcr 29 when he and Mrs. Broussard scHied as witnesses to a ceremony that united Miss Kang Ying (Muriel) To of Macao and DR. HUNG HAN (HARRY) Y*\NG, *53, formerly an assistant professor of chemical engineering at Lamar Tech and now an engineer with Texas U.S. Chemical Co. Dr. and Mrs. Yang, who met in Macao in 1950, were friends of Mr. Broussard, who gave the bride atvay. Dr. Yang is co-authoring a textbook with Dr. Allen S. Smith, professor of chemical engineering at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame AlumnuS:, March, 1959 37 

1918 Charles W. Call 
JUNE 12-13-14 
225 Patcrson Ave. 
YEAR." 
Hasbrouck Heights, N. J, Q 
CLASS •-' 

I 
Ron O^Neill 
1914 
1350 N. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Ind. 
CHARLIE VAUGHAN uriies from LaFayctte 

that !ic will be on tiand for our Forty-Fifth. 
Charlie %\as rcccnlly honored by the Indiana Stale 
JBar Association in being asked to deliver the lead­
ing address at its convention. Reports arc that 
the speccli was *'top-noicli." 
FR/\XK KIRCH.M.AX writes from Denver that 

he ^vill mortgage all his holdings to be on hand 
/or our reunion, 
JOHN F. m*XES says lie will definitely be here. 

He had no "news" to report, except "good health 
and nine grandcliildrcn." What more could anyone 
want? John's suggestion for the program: "Xo 
binge — just a chance to visit and brag for a day 
or two." 
TORGUS H. (TURK) 0.\AS visited the cam­

pus last fall for the Army game and u-as also on 
hand at the Iowa game at Iowa City on Novem­
ber 22. 
Classmates of the late KMJTE K. ROCKXE may 

be interested in knowing that Rock's daughter Mary 
Jeanne was married January 18 to Anthony J. 
Koclicndorfer of Tulsa^ Okla. 
10 1 C James £. Sanford • • "* 1429 W. Fairagut Ave. Chicago 40, HI. 
From the .\lumni Office: 
On November 30, 1958, DR. GEORGE N. SHUS­TER was in Paris to receive one of the most val­ued of all Austrian decorations, the Great Gold ^ledat of Mariazell, for his services on behalf of Jozscf Cardinal Mindszenty and the Hungarian peo­ple. Dr. Smstcr, president of Hunter College, is llic first American to receix'e the medal. Tlie pre­sentation was made by Bcda Von Dobrcnlei of the 800-ycar-old Mariazell Monaster^", who cited Dr. Shuster for his book "In Silence I Speak," a story of Cardinal Mindszenty and the Hungarian rcvo­iution. 
ROBERT L. (BOB) ROACH, president of Roach & Musser Company in Muscatine, Iowa, was re­cently elected to the board of directors of the Central State Bank. Bob's business has been mill-work and timb'tr, plus insurance and investments. He is on tlie board of trustees of Muscatine Gen­eral Hospital, former chairman of the Chamber of Commerce committee which erected the hospital, a former director of the public llbrar>' and trustee of the water and electric departments. During AVorld ^Var II he was a volunteer war bond ad­ministrator for county and state. 
Grover F. Miller 

1916 
612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, Wisconsin 

A note from ED BECK.MAN in Austin, Texas, says: "Here's a line about me. "I'm teacliing (I should say leading) a seminar titled "How to Succeed" at St. Edward's University. 
"Argument for it follows along the line of a letter I wrote last summer to a Te.\as legislative committee." 
19'!l 7 Et^^^ard J. McOskcr " " ' 2205 Brianv'ood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: 
More honors to OSCAR JOHN DORWIN, cele­brated in the last issue, who has just been made national chairman of the Law .Association's scliolar­ship dri\'c follovving a year as Alumni Association \ice president in cliargc of the Alumni Fund and three years on the Alumni board of directors. (Sec Law Page.) 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 
FREDERICK (CY) WILLIAMS, '13 Extra Innings 

While it might be considered that Fred "Cy" WiUiams is in the ninth inning of life, it appears from the picture above that his active life may go into many extra in­nings. At 71 the former National League baseball star is an expert skier and work­ing ever>' day as one of Wisconsin's lead­ing architects and builders. 
Cy played for 19 years with the Chicago Cubs and Philadelphia Phillies. A left-handed outfielder, he was the Babe Ruth of his day, taking the National League championship for home runs in 1920 and 1923, the latter with 41 round-trippers, and leading the league in slugging in 1926 with a mark of .569. 
A football teammate of Knutc Rockne, Cy was graduated with a degree in archi­tecture and returned to his first love—plus dair>' farming—when he retired from base­ball in 1930. He had acquired a tract of wild land in Wisconsin's lake region in 1917 which he developed into Clover Crest Farms, near Three Lakes. 
The town of Three Lakes is indelibly marked with Cy's architectural and con­struction skill. His most spectacular crea­tion is the Northemaire, a luxur>' hotel at the gateway of the Nicolet National Forest, which he designed and built largely with materials manufactured by himself. A down­stairs cocktail lounge at the Northemaire is named for him. Other buildings which he either designed, built or remodeled include the Lakes theater, the Three I-akes Bank and the Chalet hotel — and many lovely homes including his own, a rambling ranch house built 30 years before its time. 
Cy and Mrs. Williams have had three children, Marjorie, Forrest and Marian, and many grandchildren. 
Statistics on our small wartime class show tlic following: among the bclievcd"^ Uwng there are 47 holders of degrees, and 44 old students. Of these 91 former book addicts, however, mail is returned in the case of II from the "last known address"; there arc records of 24 deaths. 
Even though Counsellor JOSEPH T. RILEY is but a three-hour drive from the University, at Mus­kegon, Mich., he conceded it is regrettable he is so busy he seems unable to take part in as many alumni affairs as he would like. 
PETE RONCHETTI, of Corpus Christi, Tex., in­forms he has recovered from a protracted ilhiess. He can still play the concertina, an instruments—^ which enlivened football trips when he was on thc' ^ \'arsity. 
ROBERT M. RUSSELL, Cameron. Mo., opines he has not seen the campus in over 20 years, and promises to bring himself more up to date at the first opportunity. 
GEORGE WAAGE informs us that his dear mother has reached the age of 95, and he doesn't even hint that it is because he never caused her any trouble. 
NORBERT G. MONNING, among the very few of the class to have a degree in architecture, has nioved from Hixson. Tcnn., and now has his ad­dress at Union Building, Knox\-ille, Tcnn. He in­forms that presently he will retire cither to South­ern Alabama or Florida. ^ 
JI.M LOGAN, of Denver, Colo., holder of one of the two joumslism degrees granted in I9I8, in­forms he is enjoying bcaucoup grandchildren, is vcr>- active, and has not thought of retiring as yet. From the Alumni Office: ' 
A note from E. M. (MORRIE) STARREIT last fall commented on the famih'ar faces in the I9IS reunion picture. "It is my constant prayer and hope," he sa>*s, *'that fortunes will soon permit me at least one last visit to the old school." Morne expressed his shock at the passing of DEAN MC­CARTHY, spoke of his business in Olympia and praised the beauties of his beloved Port Townsend, Washington, pre5er\'cd by "bird watchers" (conscr­\-ationists) for the tourist trade. • /-^ 
JUNE i2-l3-l4 
/WV)H\OH CLASS >• ­

i 
1919 Theodore C. Radcmaker 
£) 
Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 

From the ^Uumni Office: 
Classmates are hoping that former State Senator PETE BECZKIEWICZ, who left South Bend and the florist business for Indianapolis and the State Board of Tax Commissioners, will be able to re­turn to the old roost for reunions. 
Same goes for FATHER PHIL BE^\GH/\N, now Chaplin at Borgess Hospital in Kalamazoo, Mich. 
1 92 0 J^""^ H- B.yan 
A 
107 Magec Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y. 

From the /Vtumni Office: 
JOHN T. BALFE, still operating his insurance company in New York City, recently sent a clip­ping and copy of his congratulations to DR. GEORGE SHUSTER, '15, for the latest honor be­stowed on him in Paris. The story is in the 1915 notes. 
Dan W. Duffy 

1921 
1101 N.B.C. BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
•) 

From the Alumni Office: Tlic Associated Press picked up the story of JOHN CLANC\"s achievements at his speech camp oper­
MIAMI — Officers of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Mianii and their wives, sitting it out just long enough for this picture at their Christinas Dinner-Dance at the Coral Gables Country Club: (paired off, left to right) Bill and Patty Welch; Jim and Lois Smith; Charlie and Mary Maher; Dan and Dee Rowlands, and Arthur and Ilia Bergen. 
atcd by the University of Michigan, told in the last ALUMNUS, and tlic story u-as picked up on the wire by papers all over the counirv-. 

• 
1922 Gerald A. Ashe ^ 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
These notes will be read long after Christmas, bvit we do want to go on record as extending Christmas greetings and best wishes to our class president, Rx\LPH CORYX, to our treasurer, MAT­THEA\* iV'EIS, and to our class vice-presidents: VINCE HANR.\HAN, CHET \\TNNE, FRANK BLOEMER and GENE KENNEDY, and to evcr>­member of our cla.ss; also to Messrs. Armstrong and Cackley at Notre Dame and all on their staff 

^ of the ALUMNUS. U'c thank ail wJio made news 
^ ) contributions to this column in 1938, and hope that in the coming year even more will get the urge to become amateur news reporters, and thereby be­come real live wires in keeping the Class of '22 up at the front of the parade, where it really belongs. Our grateful thanks to all who have sent Christmas greetings to the Class Secretary* as this report is made up of information contained in these most welcome Christmas messages. Due to pre-Chrisimas deadline for this issue of the ALUMNUS, it is im­possible to finish a complete report of all who sent Christmas messages at this lime. 
Phyllis Heneghan of South Bend, widow of our 
beloved George, writes ihsi stm Jim is now con­

^ ^ nected with Lobund's gcrm-free research study on 
^ ^ the campus. 
DAN YOUNG, of Foley Brothers Construction Company, who directed the building for Eric Min­ing Co. of their huge taconite project on the Min­nesota Iron Range, has transferred hb operations to IMeasantville, New York, with the completion of Ills work in Aurora, Minnesota. Dan's temporary* address is P.O. Box 237, PleasantviUe, N. Y. 
FR^\NK W. CONNELLY, assistant vice-president of The Pacific National Fire Insurance Co., has of­fices at 433 California St., Saii Francisco. Frank resides at 237 West Poplar Avenue, San Mateo, Cah'f. He says: 
"\\*c get older. . . .wc arc plowing down a bit . , .but wc arc comfortable, and wc will be grand­

• parents again soon. . . best of luck." 
From Cleveland GEORGE KERNER writes to say that he, his wife, Val, and daughter Joyce, were visiting in Montreal in the late fall. They 
missed seeing the Class Secretary* who was there at 
the same time. 
Christmas greetings from the Hv\ROLD McKEE*s 
of Western Springs, 111., came via Allcntown, Pa. 
Harold writes: 
*'Long lime no see. How have you been? We 
are all fine. Junior is engaged. Fatlier McKee 
holding up fine.*' 
Massachusetts' "CHUCK" CROWLEY writes: 
'"You will note our new address. All our girls married, so wc sold the farm at Millis. I sec Doc­tor EDDIE ^VNDERSON (of Holy Cross) on occa­sion and regularly drop in on CY KELLETT at Milford. Both are well, and like myself, have ac­cumulated a mess of grandchildren. I understand Eddie's oldest boy was recently the father of twins. Too bad your tours do not veer in this direction once in a while." 
Chuck's present address is: 598 Wcllcsley Street, Weston 93, Massachusetts. 
From Burns, Oregon, Mrs. Jessie Folej' Rickey (sbter of CHARLES FOLEY of happy mcmor>i sends news that Chuck's daughter, Mary Ann, was graduated Maxima Cmn Laude from the University of Portland and won a scholarship to the Univer­sity of California at Berkeley. CHARLES FOLEY, JR., is father for the third time—two boys and a girl. He is employed by Boeing Aircraft Co. of. Seattle, and was t;iven time off by his employer to work for a" Masters in Engineering, whicli is e:<­pected to be forthcoming tlib spring. 
In addition to the foregoing Christmas greetings, others came from: EDWARD GATTRY, JERO.ME DIXON, FR.\NK .XHLES, JOSEPH DUFFEY, Ria\RD McaVRTY, GER.\LD "MIDNIGHT" MURPHY, MORGr\N SHEEDY, LEO McGAR-TY, VINCENT HANR.\H.\N, LEO KELLEY, '21, MOST REV. JOHN F. O'HARxV, C.S.C. and from FATHERS JOHN J. avVANAUGH, GEORGE B. FISCHER, ROBERT SHEEHAN, and JOSEPH RICK, CS.C. 
FRfVNK OTT of Herkimer, N.Y., writes: 
"Another Christmas finds us on the firing line and \vatching the expansion of the Alma Mater. I enjoy your repartee in the ALUMNUS and keep wondering when you are going to report back to good old Rochester now topped with snow, I expect to spend the holidays in North HoUy^vood with my wife and daughter who have already *gonc West' while I bum anthracite in the snow belt of New York state — zero right now. Keep the light of the Class of '22 burning another year and if I get any news, I'll express it pronto. Have a happy holiday season, and remember, once a New Yorker, always a New Yorker." 
BERNARD GAFFNEY, son of our beloved class­
mate CYRIL, was admitted to the Connecticut Bar 
last Augttst. Another son—Brian, NJ>. '55—takes 
the Connecticut bar exams on December 26 and 27. 
Bernard Is married and has a b^ y daughter. Mrs. 
Helen SiUlii'an, the former Mrs. Cyril Gaffney, and 
husband Walter leave February 1 for a visit to the 
West Coast and Honolulu. 
We are very sorry to report news of the illness 
of Doctor HENRY ATKLNSON of Green Bay, 
Wisconsin. Mrs. Atkinson informs us that Doctor 
Hank was in Mayo Brothers Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, all of last August %vith vascular trouble 
requiring surgcrj' on three occasions. Presently 
Doctor Hank is at his Green Bay home, but work­
ing Oft a part-time basis. 
DANNY COUGHLIN writes a warm mess^e 
from Waseca, Minnesota, to say that he and wife 
Bess Send Christmas greetings. They arc spending 
some time in Duluth with a sister of Mrs. Cough­
lin, who has been ill. 
Here is a nice salute from F.ATHER BOB SHEE­
HAN, C.S.C.: 
'*Bcst uishes, Jerr>-. I read your secretarial re­port and am never disappointed. You always have news to pass on. You are to be sincerely con­gratulated for it is obvious that it entails much non-business correspondence. I know the 'gang* acknowledged this in '57 in a way which was much enjoyed and appreciated by you. Keep it up *Kid'; the 40th and 50th anniversaries arc still ahead and, God willing, you will report each. At lease that is the hope and prayer of our Com­munity." 
CULLEN BURKE, *23, of Albany, N«v- York, reports only one son is left at home and he at­tends Tech School, the other children being mar­ried — a total of nine grandchildren and others expected shortly, and one daughter. Sister Marie Veronica, is in Sisters of Maryknoll. Cullen has a new address. It is 18 Niblock Court, .-Mbany, N.Y. 
From the Alumni Office: The day after the Southern Methodist game last October the Dallas Times Herald wrote about the plight of BARRY HOLTON, who played under KNUTE ROCKNE at Notre Dame but has been at 
S.M.U. for many years, first as a teacher and now as director of community* ser\*ices. 
Classmates were elated when the news came out 
in December that L.AU*RENCE T. "BUCK" SHAW 
will coach the Philadelphia Eagles for another year. 
Buck went to the Eagles last season after a fine 
job of guiding the fledgling Air Force .Academy 
team in 1957 and nine years with the San Fran­
cisco Forty-Niners before that. 
Detroit Times reporter RAY GIR.ARDIN won an au-ard from the Michigan Probation, Prison and Parole ^Vssociation for an article on the Michigan prison s>*stcm. 
"HUNK" -ANDERSON has a new address, 1945 Highland Avenue, Wilmctte, Illinois. 
1 923 I^ub V. Bruggner * * 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 

Sobering news of deaths and illnesses head this '23 chronicle. JOSEPH E.MMETT O'BRIEN, LL.B. 
•23, died Nov. 21, 1958, of a heart attack while at work in Buda, Illinois, near his home at Brad­ford, Illinois. He was single, having never married, and is survived by one sister, Mrs. Ralph Johnson, and one brother, Leonard O'Brien, 7649 Luella .•\.ve>, Chicago. 
Prcriously reported to our Classmates in the secretary's news-letter, but never vet published in THE ALUALVUS, uas the death of a\RLTON B. MAINO, in Jackson, Michigan on August 26, 1958. He leaves his wife, three sons and three grand­children. Tlie widow's address is 302 Stillwell Ave., Michigan Center, Michigan. 
Julia irer2og, wife of JULIUS T. HER20G, 

M.E. '23, died after a short heart illness on May 29, 1958. Besides her husband she is survived by a daughter, Mary Frances, married. News of this death came belatedly in a note on the Christmas card which Julius mailed to EDDIE KREIMER, and relayed to this secretariat. Our sympathy goes belatedly but sincerely to the bereaved husband and classmate, whose attendance at the 35th class re­union was blocked by the death of his wife a few days before. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 39 

MICHIGAN CITY — Retiring President Louis E. Black (left) symbolically passes the gavel to newly elected Club President William PHebe at installation ceremony on January 
31. To the new president's right arc Vice-President Dr. F. J, Kubik and Secretary W. C. Zehnpfennig. 
A heart attack also struck another classniatr;, DANIEL P. NOLAN', who is com-alcscing in La­trobc hospital, Latrobe, Pcnnsyl\-ania, according to a note dated Dec. 15, received from his wife, Mrs. Genevieve Smith Xolon. Mrs. Nolan is remembered as the sister of Mrs. RAYMOND SCHUBMEHL, now deceased. "If cvcr>'thing goes well," Mrs. No­lan wrote, ""Dan may be home for Christmas. . . I thought perhaps a tew prayers will be said by liis classmates for a permanent rccover>-, . . . He is still planning on the 1963 reunion.'* (A few prayers, Mrs. Nolan, is an understatement. .-Ml of us will pray for Dan's recovery and his ability to be wiiii us in *63. LVB.) 
JACK NORTON relayed to mc information from Mrs. LINUS GLOT2BACH, that Linus had undergone a second operation Dec. H for relief from Parkinson's disease with which he is afflicted. They ucrc able to fly home for Christmas and Linus i<i reported to be weak but improving. Xfore prayers, ever\'one. 
In ilie last secretarial news-letter, classmates were iii/ornicd of the rcspectiic successes of HENRY BARNHART and JERRY 1LAG.\N. In case the news sleuths of THE ALUMNUS do not chronicle the said events properly elsewhere in this issue, we \^-isIi to Inform you: 
HENRY BARNHART, vice-president of the Bald vviii-Lima-Hamil ton Corporation, Lima, Ohio, has been appointed to the University's Advisory Council for Liberal and Fine Arts, according to an announcement made by Father Hcsburgh in November. 
JERRY HAGAN, Scalmrst, Washington, in Sep­tember was named director of the Washington State Department of Labor by Governor Albert D. Roscllinj. Previously Jerry had scr\'cd as tlic Seat­tle district ofTicc manager for the state tax com­mission. 
From the .-Mumni Office: 
LINUS GLOTZBACH has been working again as vice-president of Northwest Airlines in St. Paul after a scries of operations for Parkinsonism and seems to be recovering. 
FRASK WALLACE went down gallantly in his bid for the U.S. Congress from Ohio's 18th Dis­trict, while JOE NYIKOS was successful in his campaign for re-election as a J.P. in South Bend's Portage Townslnp. 
Pcnivian Ambassador FERNANDO BERCKE­MEYER, who has become famous for throwing the most interesting parties in Washington, lias re­turned to the fold, having applied and been ac­cepted for elected membership in the Alumni Asso­ciation, 
iO Notre Dame Alumnus. March, 1959 
JUNE 1213-14 

SIMP 
1 0OA James R, Mecfaan 329 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 
REGIS FALLON of Phoenix wrote to describe an interesting trip to Europe lost summer: **Sing with a male chorus, the Orpheus Club, Iiere, and uc sang at the Song Ftistival in Vienna and at the World's Fair (Brussels). Also in Germany, Austria, S'-.vitzerland, France, Belgium and Holland. It was a wonderful trip. Sang at the Shannon (Ireland) Airport coming and going, and they liked us so well that they gave tis free Irisli coffee on our way back. It was like a dream. They treated us grand," 
From the .Alumni Office; KR.ANK ^'!ANCE bos been named head of sales and engineering for Tliermcx liigh-frequcncy di­electric heating equipment in its new sales office in Chicago. Previously a field engineer for the Girdlcr Process Equipment Division of Chemctron Corp., maker of TJiermcx, Frank has also worked for R.C.A., General Electric, etc 
1 02S John P. Hurley 7Ai» 2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
The 1925 cocktail party after the Army game was a great success. We caught sight and talked to tlic following fclIouTi: ROBERT GORDAN and MAURICE BOLAND of Fort Wayne; DON MIL­LER, our president, never misses nor docs BILL 
BELL at Rochester; JOHN ROACH who gave us 
those wonderful pictures of the Four Horseman team of yesteryear. John is in Milwaukee. GEORGE LUDWIG has it made for a few years. He can always say to the boss, *'I have to sec my daugh­ter at St. ^fary's. George, I have to think of a new one. My daughter is now supporting the Hur­
ley's since she graduated from St. Mary's lasl 
June. JIM AR.MSTRONG was there and he and ] 
asked a lot of the boys if they liked the idea ol 
these gatherings. Tlic answer was a. big *'Yes" bui 
wc will have it in a new spot ^vherc we will be 
able to pick out our classmates by having it in 3 
room all by ourselves. These fellows from '28 look 
older than wc do. C. J. FOLEY was there from 
Waukegan, 111., and GEORGE SCHWARZ, I am 
sure, will be happy about a new coadi because he 
came all the «"ay from Kansas and he said "Never 
again," but he will be back. ED CUDDIHY was 
on deck from the Windv City, as was LEO PO^V­
ERS, GEORGE L.\UGHLLV, WALLY METZGER 
and BILL CONNERS, '24. VIRG FAGEN left 
Sears run by itself while he and his gang came 
over to see that "Game." BERNIE LIVERGOOD 
looks great even with iii's hat off and JOHN KANE 
is no longer "red". . . . but "Whitic" JERRY 
HERLIHY was there with his wife and daughter 
Pat as were most of the charming wives of your 
classmates. 
JOE HAGGERT\* and his wife came all the way from Bessemer, .Alabama, and had a lot in common with Mr. and .Mrs. BEN RESTING just like the en­gineers of old. CLARENCE H/\RDING has pro­mised to work with JIM AR.MSTRONG on a local committee to make next year's cocktail party a bigger and better one and to help with plans for our 35th in '60. PAUL DOOLEY was there with his u-ife Margaret as was CL.ARENCE K/\ISER of Detroit. 
JOHN KILKENNY of Pendleton, Oregon, sent 

his dicck for the Fun or Fund. Thanks, John—I^ 
gave it to Hank, along with some other checks for^ 
Masses for our '25*ers. 
GIL SCHAEFER looks fine and we talked about our two Birmingham, Michigan pals who played a great game right up to the final whistle. . . RAY CUNNINGHAM and BUD STILLMAN ('24). PAUL ROMWEBER really got a lot of prayers rolling for JOE TOOLEN of St. Petersburg, Fla., by telling the gang he had died. Paul wrote to mc the following week and told mc it just wasn't true and that Joe was very much olive. I wrote Joe a note to pay no attention hi case anyone told him he was in line for their prayers and that he was the only man in our class who has sonic of our prayers '*on the cuff." 
JERRY .MILLER was there from Cleveland osj was BERNARD LEY who is selling lots of Akron to lots of people in .Akron. DR. LEOX.ARD A. BLUM of the Youngstown, Ohio, area was there and I believe it's the first time we have seen Len in many a year. You would have no trouble pick­ing him out. . . he hasn't diangcd much. . . looks great. I can say the same for BILL HUR* LEY. That great colonial from LouisWlIe, jO £ HARMON, was beaming all over the place just like the old days. I believe PAUL KOHOUT of Boise, Idalio, takes the prize for long distance. JERRY BENNING from Minneapolis had quite a hike too. JOHN ELLIOT is still keeping the traveling men happy In his hotel at LaCrosse, Wis­consin. -My brother-in-law, GEORGE HAHN, was r-there too. He has three good reasons with three 4 sons at Notre Dame University. George says it isn't clieaper "by the quarter dozen." That's about all who regbtercd. I know I must have missed a few, but as you know we are all getting a bit older and the memory- isn't as good as it used to be. 
I managed to take in a few games away from home and in so doing I ran into a few more of the '25'cr5. Aly most pleasant contact was tJie morning I ran into Hx\NK WURZER on my way-back from Mass the morning of the Navy game in Washington. We had breakfast at the ilay­flower where we were both staying. Wc also saw DICK N.ASH ('23) and iiis tvifc and daughter as well as JOHN McMANMON, '27. Hank Wurzer ^ had just returned from Europe. He had \-isited his daughter at Newton in Boston and was in AVash­ington to see another daughter in scliool there. .-Vfter breakfast Hank took off for South Bend to see the baby of his fine family who is attending St. Mary's .Academy. Hank looks real good and the trip to Our Lady of Lourdes mu3t have been a big help in blessings needed to carr>' on after his great loss in the death of his wife last August. Hank »-anted to be remembered to all the class and was sorr>' he couldn't make the cocktiil parly or the Navy game affair. I did sec DANNY CUL­HANE who I believe was in the class of '24, Danny has lived in AVashlngton for many a year. While at the Pittsburgli game I saw HARRY STUHL-­DREHER and his wife at Mass at the Cathedral % as well as at the rully. FRANKLIN McSORLEY called me at my Iiotel and wc had a nice cliat over the phone. He and his family are in good health. 
I was at a table with Father JOYCE, "MOOSE" KRAUSE, "Red" MILLER, UO, as well as NICK MGRASSBERGER of the class of *56, so we could "really cover a lot of territory in Notre Darac his-tor>'. Speaking of **oId timers'* I am double-dating with Jim Cooncy of the class of '89 who is 87 and played on the first baseball team at Notre Dame and knew Fatlicr SORIN. Jim today can take on and BExVT any member of the class of '25 or thru '50 in a game ot bridge. His date is the widow of his nephew and her son Is "Conny" NOLJ\N, a freshman at Notre Dame this year. Conn%-'s father was MILTON NOUVX, '30, and JIM COONEY's son BOB COONEY, now deceased, finished at N.D. in '27. Just in case any of you fellows think you arc too old to come back to your reunions just keep JIM COONEV in mind. He is the all-time all 
»Notre Dame Man of Toledo. Jim and his date are taking in the cocktail party at ART SUDER's, '24, house before the game, where we will all hoist one to Jim's "perpetual youth" and a real Notre Dame man. 
From ttie .-Mumni Office: CHARLES W: DONAHUE has been appointed cxecmivc \ice-president of Long Advertising Agency in Miami, Florida. A New York Times profile piobed RIP MIL­LER'S mixed emotions about the N.D.-Na\'>- scries. Rip is the iron man of the Naval Academy's Ath­letic office. HARRY STUHLDREHER was finally inducted V into the Football Hall of Fame last October in ' New York with President Eisenhower in attendance at the ceremony. HENRY J. "SPIKE" .MCVDAMS, director of New York operations for Jones & Laughlin, has a son, Michael, in his freshman year at Notre Dame. FRANCIS "BUGS" WALTHER furnished the mu­sic for the marriage of Spike's daughter Judith last June after her graduation from Trinity College in Washington. Spike and his wife were in South Bend for the North Carolina game. FRANK HOWL^VND has been honored by elec­tion to the national committee on nominations of the National Association of Life Underwriters. Frank, a C.L.U. for Massachusetts Mutual, Is vice-president of the Detroit Association of Life Under­. writers and was general chairman nf the National .•Association meeting in Detroit in 1957. 
192 & ^*'^>' Gocpfrich 
• ^^^ 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Indiana 
STANLEY C. BOYLE is back in his Iiomc town of Indianapolis Jvhcre he is purchasing agent for the Republic Crcosoting Company. He is very ac­tive in the Purchasing Agents' .-Association, has held the offices of secretary-, treasurer, first xicc-president and president of the Indianapolis chapter and is now national director. In 1929 Stan married Marie 

A Francis Daunt; they have two children^ Marilyn Katlir>*n, now Mrs. William F. Clark, and Char-Icne Anne, and one grandchild. His hobbies arc his home and furniture refinishing. Stan sees JOE QUINL.AN, CHARLIE .M/VSOX and PAUL SKEL­LY occasionally. Hope to see you at our 35tli re­union in '61, Stan. 
RICHARD J. COLLINS, JR., now lives at 17 Lexington Avenue, Glens Falls, New York. From 1930 to 1955 he had a boat business on Blue Moun­tain Lake, New York, which was his home when he was at Notre Dame. Dick's present f>ccupation is super\'ision of inspection and quality control at the Sandy Hill Iroti and Brass Works at Hudson 
Falls, New York. Dick was married in 1937 and 

• has three girls, Elizabeth, 19; Carol, 16; and El­len, 8. Elizabeth is a junior at Le Moyne College, Syracuse, New York. 
In September, while I was attending the Inter­national Skid Prevention Conference at the Univer­sity of Virginia, I imexpcctedly met BERNIE WINGERTER at the Charlottesville airport, where he was changing planes. He had been down to Roanoke, Virginia, where he had landed a nice ol­der for diescl locomotives. 
ROBERT J. DOLEZAL, who hailed from San Pierre, Ind., now has the.Dolcxal Insurance Agenc>'. in Carrol], lomu He also has a farm implement and propane gas business. In 1937 Bob married K. Louise Piclstickcr and they have four children, 

^ John, 17; Fred, 15; Thomas, 13, and Ann, 8. Bob's hobbies arc hunting, fishing, and collecting old coin banks. He expects to attend our 35th reunion. 
On October 1, RAY DURST postcarded that he and Grace were on the final phase of their trip 
LEO J. LOVETT, 22 As ye sew so shall he reap 
Recently L. J. Lovett was appointed chief woodworking engineer of the Singer Manufacturing Company, world - famous maker of Singer sewing machines. In the new position Leo is responsible for all tech­nical and engineering operations in all Singer's woodworking installations through­out the world. He is also in full charge of all operations at the company's factories at Pickens, S. C, and Trumann, Ark. 
Leo is a native of Pennsylvania and re­ceived his early education in and around Lock Haven, Pa. He was graduated from the Lock Haven Teachers College before entering the College of Engineering at Notre Dame. 
Shortly after graduation he joined Singer as an engineer in the South Bend plant and remained there until the plant was closed in 1955. During this period he be­came assistant superintendent of engineer­ing in 1929, superintendent of engineering in 1937, assistant general superintendent of the plant in 1940 and general superintend­ent in 1950. 
When the South Bend factory was closed Leo was transferred to the executive offices of the company at its headquarters in New York City. There he ser\*cd as special as­sistant to the vice-president in charge of manufacturing. 
With his wife Betty Carpenter Lovett and son Richard, Leo lives at 18 Cromwell Parkway, Summit, N. J. 
through most of the countries in Western Europe. The' card was from Montecalini Tenne, Italy. He said their most moving experience was their visit to Lourdes where they partiapated in the candle­light procession with 60,000 others. 
jVssistant city editor of The Detroit News is SEWARD E. (SID) BOWER, who came to Notre Dame from Mishawaka, Ind. In 1930 Sid married Nadinc Fisher of South Bend, and they have a daughter, Beth Kathleen, 15. Sid belongs to the Notre Dame Club of Detroit and says his Iiobby W3S model railroading, once upon a time. He would like to bear from HARRY ABRAMS and JOHN LENIHAN. Sid attended our 25tli reunioa but says it is doubtful that he will attend our 35th. (Some of you Detroit men u411 have to work on Sid on this one.) 

Since the last issue ot the ALUMNUS I visited JOHN RYAN, our Class President, in Chicago, and JOHN E. PROBST in Wyandotte, Michigan. JOHN and Ona RYAN had a vacation trip to Nova Scotia this summer. John Probst is Plant Engineer at the Wyandotte Chemical Company. He lives in W>-andottc with his wife, Elverda, and sons, Dick, John, and Chrb. He reminisced a couple of hours in the local pub. 
CHARLES F. HEINTZ is owner and general manager of the Heintz Electric Supply Co. of Quincy, Illinois, his home town. He married Elvira Doding in 1931. Tlieir children are Mrs. Dale Craven, Mrs. Wayne Quinn, Sister Mary Charlene, ^V.S. and James, 13. His hobbies are golf and tra­veling. Charlie would like to hear from. BOB DOLEZAL, HOWARD WELMERSKIRK, ROME FELDPAUSCH and NL\URICE >VELSH. He ex­pects to attend our 35th reunion. 
la September I had a ver>' enjoyable golf game with FRANK DEITLE at the Olympic Fields Coun­try- Club in Chici^o. 
JOSEPH SHANLEY Is now a special representa­tive for the Pioneer Ice Cream Division of - The Borden Co. in Brooklyn, N.V. He lives oa Long Island. There are two sets of twins in Joc*s fam­ily of SLC children. The children are Kathleen, 25; Dick, 23; Mary and Peggy, 21 (twins); and Joe and Helen, 17 (twins). He has three grandchildren. Joe is a member of the K. of C. and the Howell Point Yacht Club. His hobbies are stamps and boats. Joe expects to come to our 35th reunion. 
Vour secretary and Mrs. G. were blessed v/ith their 12th grandchild on October 20. This was a son, bom to their youngest daughter, Margaret, and LEO ZMUDZINSKI, '52. 
In a later communique from RAY DURST he gave a very detailed description of the internment rites for Pope Pius XII which he, Mrs. Durst and Mrs. J. J. Cavanaugh attended. Also from a newspaper item in a Chicago paper I learned of some of the details of the Durst's trip. They sailed on the "Christoforo Colombo" to Gibraltar in July and motored from there to the Shrine of Fatima in Portugal. After a visit to Spain they motored to the famous Lourdes Shrine in France. .After visits to the French and Italian Rivieras, they went to the Shrine of St. Anthony in Padua. Then on to Vienna, .Austria, and Mum'ch, Germany; here they also visited the spa at Baden-Baden. Then a trip to Luxembourg, the birthplace of Mr. Durst's father. After several days in Paris, they flew to London and visited some relatives at Western Super Man, the home of Mrs. Durst's father. Then a visit to Edinburgh, Scotland, where they had the pleasure ol pla>-ing golf at the Royal Burgess Golfing Society. There followed a visit to Copenhagen, Denmark, and a side trip to Sweden. .After that they visited the World's Fair in Brussels. They then flew to Italy and motored to Switzerland. During this stay in Italy they -'attended the burial rites for Pope Pius XII, as already reported above. They sailed for home oa the **Chrisloforo Colum­bo" on October 19. 
We all were shocked by the sudden death of RT. REV. MSGR. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY on No­vember 10. Many of you will remember how fine he looked when he said the Mass at our 25th class reunion. .A more detailed account will be found ebewhere in this issue. VINC GOULET,' our treasurer, .wTote that Msgr. Joe was pastor of the parish church where he was brought up and at­tended imtil he came to Notre Dame. 
We were also sorry to learn of the death of the mother of W. WADE SULLIVAN in October. 
.A happy incident was the appointment of ARCH> BISHOP 0'H.ARA to CARDINAL. Our president, JOHN RYAN, wrote him a nice congratulatory letter in behalf ol our class. 
Your secretary and Mrs. G. enjoyed trips to the Navy game in Baltimore and the Iowa game in Iowa City. We didn't see any '26'crs at either place. 
You will have noted that TOM FARRELL, our Eastern Vice-President, was a nominee on the slate ot Directors of the Alumni Association. Tom es­caped election by a narrow margin and got a very impressive vote. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: CHARLES M. DOUGHERTY made headlines in Pennsylvania when he was appointed by Govemor-
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 41 
elect Lawrence as secretary' of revenue in his Cabi­net. Charlie has been active in the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia for over thirty years. He is a Monogram man and was a *'Spotlisht Alumnus" in 1953. 
A note from BERT DUNNE sa>-s: "The report is around the East that I was the *Dunn' involved in an episode In October at Kczar Stadium, San Francisco, in which a '49cr adherent jumped from the stands and tried to dismember Georsc Halas of the Chicago Bears. Tlie report gained credence when JIM D\\'YER and ED FALLON wired me, offering legal aid. I wasn't at the park that day, and furthermore the chap involved was only a stripling who had imbibed too mucli 'tea*. I am still engaged in the ad business—PR and T\^-Radio 
— and try to stay out of trouble. My interest in football has been re-incarnated since ND signed to play California next Fall. I am also wo'rking on a project that I hope will materialize into a Knute Rocknc Baseball Scliolarship at Notre Dame. ] even liave the potential recipient in mind . . ." 
1927 Oarcnce J. Ruddy 
• ^ 32 S. River SL Aurora, Illinois 
Although the Army game %*'as a little short of satisfactorv- in its principal result, it did produce some collateral enJo\'ment. Tlie week end furnished an occasion for JACK DAILEY, MARC FIEHRER, BILL COYNE, STEVE RONAY and myself, as well as HENRY HASLEY of the Class of *28 and OS­CAR RUST, '29, to get together for a pleasant reunion. AVe and our wives first availed ourselves of the gracious hospitality of the Class of 1928 in the Morris Inn, and then had dinner together and >pent the evening in South Bend. 
Steve filled us in on present admission require­ments and scliolarship standards of the University. He made us all happy that our own days of get­ting through college are over. By the same token he gave a little concern to those of tis who have sons who arc rapidly approaching the day when the\* want to be admitted to the University, Many of you of course, have already passed that stage and your sons and daughters are safely educated. Others, who have preser^'cd the illusion of youth by marrying late, arc still faced with the problem. 
Everybody present at this delightful occasion Seemed to be healthy and well fed. Bill Coj-nc en­joys his work for the Federal Housing Agency in Washington; Marc Ficlirer Is still practicing law — and vcrv- successfully too, in his home to\vn uf Hamilton, Ohio. I mentioned tliis before, but Jack Dailey is likewise prominent in the legal profes­sion in Burlington, Iowa. 
Also, at the Army game, I got a brief glimpse of PAT a\NNV. I did not get a diance to talk to him, but he could hardly be missed with, his ver>' light tan camel's hair coat. I did have an opportunity to talk to HARRY O'BOYLE, who was at the game with Iiis family. Somewhere in the frourse of the years, Harr\' abandoned his early idea of taking up ^ the profession of law, and Is with the CIicvToIct Division of General Motors in Wisconsin. He doesn't seem to regret tlic cliange. 
I ran into SEB.ASTIAN BERNER in South Bend after the game. He has a general insurance agenc>' there, and looked in the best of health. 
If.I would see more football games I'd have more news. Perhaps next year I will. 
I am sure all of us received a great thrill a few weeks ago when we learned of the elevation of ARCHBISHOP O'HARtV to be a Cardinal. He was not a member of our Class of course, but he was as mucli a part of our lives as the Dome, the Four Horsemen, and the cafeteria. His greatest days were still to come, as President of the University, Bishop of BufTalo, and Archbishop of Philadelphia; but we will alwa>*s remember his slim, energetic, smiling figure, as he walked briskly about the Campus, mostly between Sorin Tower and the basement Chapel, giving a word of encouragement or advice to c\-er>'one he met. ^Ve ^nll not for­get his sparkling, inspiring daily religious bulle­tins, and we will cherish tlic conferences we used to Iiave with him in his office in the Sorin Tower. These will always be among the greatest memories we chcrisli. May IiIs da>-s as a Prince of the Cliurcli ­be long and fruitful. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: 
PAUL MULHOLLAND BUTLER has been pro­filed recently in newspapers and magazines from coast to coast, including a New York Times piece called ^'136-Pound Battler." Cause of all the com-
DR. JOHN H. A. WHITMAN, '25 By degrees, a King's man 

Faculty and students at King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa., were relieved -to learn that Dr. John Whitman, King's professor of history and political science, would not retire completely. Closing a dedicated ca­reer as a librarian and teacher, amiable "Doc" Whitman continues on the staff as director of the King's Evening Session, a position he has held since its inception. 
Since King's was founded in 1946 by the Holy Cross Fathers the veteran educator has taught history and French (trading quip for quip with cx-GI's), served as head of the history department and chief college librarian, even ran the book store — and built up a legion of friends. In 1953 a his­tory essay contest was established in his name, and the 1956 senior class dedicated the yearbook "Regis" to him (the first lay­man so honored). 
Bom in Providence, R. I., John attended Boston College Prep and received a LitLB. in 1912 from the College de St. Laurent, Montreal, Canada. He studied theolog>' at Laval Univcrsit)' and returned to St. Lau­rent in 1914 to teach French and English. In 1917 he taught French in Little Rock, .•\rk., coming to Notre Dame in 1918 to teach American literature and Latin in the prep school. When the prep school closed in 1921 he became a librarian in the Law School and worked up to a professorship, adding a formidable alphabet to his degree in letters, A.B. (1925), M_A. (1927) and J.D. (1930). 
.After 28 years' ser\'ice at Notre Dame 

(interrupted only by illness in 1941) John j-ielded reluctantly to the pleadings of first President Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C., that he come to King's. In thirteen years the genial bachelor has never regretted the move. And neither have the King's alumni, who wish him many more years as dean of the evening session. 
motion was the rrccnt meeting of the Democratic National Cnmmittec at which Paul won his figlit to seat Loubiana National Committeeman CAMIL-j^ LE GR.AVEL, '35, and also bolstered his owa^­claim to the chairmanship. 
192 8 Louts F. Buckley ^ 135 Blue Hills Parkway Milton 86, Mass. 
This is the first time in my thirty years of class reporting that I have had to announce the deatlis of tliree classmates in one column. CLARENCE BERT HAVEN, LL.B., died on September 8, after a long illness in Detroit; DR. JOHN VIKTORYN, B.S., died suddenly from a heart attack on Octo­ber 22 in Cleveland where he practiced medicine jft for 23 years, and JACK LAVELLE, A.B., dropped" dead in his home in West Hempstead, L.I., on De­cember 4. 
BERT HAVEN, age 55, was employed at the lime of his death by the Chrysler Corporation as a product analyst and tool engineer and cost esti­mator. DICK QUINLjVN reports that Bert had been ill for some time with diabetes and had a. bone infection in one of his legs. Bert was single. The last 1 heard from him was a few* years ago when he was in South /\merica with the Kaiser Industries. Dick Quintan made a retreat with Bert a few years ago at Notre Dame. 
DR. JOHN VIKTOR^TC, age 51, received his medical education at Western Reserve University. — He was an Air Force medical officer during World ^ War II. John is survived by his wife, sons, John 11 and Elliott, 10, daughters Valeric 16 and Fran­ces 15. I last saw John at our 20th reunion. 
JACK LAVELLE, age 52, died suddenly from a. heart attack while sitting in a cliair watcliing tele­vision in his home in West Hempstead, L. I. He had returned from confession in preparation for the first Friday. Jack has been a scout for the Xciv York Giants for a number of years. He abo scouted for Notre Dame and Vale and became know*n as one of the outstanding football scouts in the country. He was also very much in demand as a speaker as he was an expert spinner of jokes. 
Members of the Class of '28 know Jack as a typically devout classmate. We will remember him ^ most recently as our toastmaster at class reunion ^ dinners and for the sessions in which he partici­pated at reunions. Jack's death will leave an emp­tiness at our future reunions whidi wc will all feel. In preparing for reunions, wc took it for granted that Jack would be our toastmaster and he never failed us. VINCE CARNEY arranged for a special Class shirt for Jack and his 300 lbs. He was always awaiting me when I arrived for' re­unions a day in advance so he could help me put the show on the road. 
Jack was married on December 26, 1946. In ad­dition to lib w*ife and mother, he is survived by a son, age 11 and a daughter, age 8. 
Jack's N.D. roommates, Rj\V MOCK of St. Paul and VICTOR FISCHER of Brightwatcr, N.Y., were M 
An impromptu reunion took place at Los Angeles' Biltmore Hotel last Nov. 28. In town for the Southern Cal game were (1. to r.) Louts Hough, Bill Dick, Gene "Scrap­iron" Young, Dave Hickcy, Joe Boland, Frank Conway and Mike McDcrmitt, all of the Class of '27 except Bill, '29. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

So large was the Class of 1928 "squad" at the Morris Inn after the Army game that we hope you*U foxgivc us for identifying only the "nine-man line" (kneeling, left to right): James Canizaro, Rev. Mark Fitzgerald, C^.C; Thomas Rodgcrs, Rev. Andrew Mulrcancy, CS.C; Joseph Morrissey, Edward McKeo%vn, Glass President James Allan, Vincent Carney and William H. Murphy. 
present for the funeral. BERNE GARBER and Our deceased classmate BUD CALLAGY was hon­I received the following longhand note from GEORGE CRON'GEYER sent floucrs in the name ored in September when New York City ofHcials JOHN CARDINAL O'HARA in response to my of Ihc Class of *28. dedicated Callagy Hall, the first shelter of the letter of congratulations from the Class of 1928: 
^^y fellow Bostonian, TIM TOOMEY, '30, wlio N.Y.C. Department of Welfare to be designed ex­*'Vour words give me comfort and course and assisted Mrs. Lavelle in funeral arrangements, and clusively for the care of dependent and neglected my heart is full of gratitude but time is of the Hemic Garbcr supplied me with copies of the girls. "It is most fitting," Mayor Wagner de­i^ence these day^ and I must reduce my thanks to many tributes to Jack by sports writers. Arthur clared in his address, "that the new shelter should one line — God bless you." Daley cuncludcd a column on Jack in the Decem­bear the honored name of JUDGE CALI^\GY, who ART DENCHFIELD is now living at 100 Eton ber 8 issue of the M.Y. Times with the following was such a deeply devoted friend of all children. Rd., Thornwood, N.Y. He was recently the Gen­
comment, "The world of sports will sorely miss He worked zealously with the Foster Care Commis­eral Manager, Caribbean Territories, Singer Sewing Jack Lavelle. His wit and his gaiety brightened sion and, before his sudden death on August 4, 1954, Machine Co. Art has four sons, ages 8 to 16. Drop cvcr>' corner of it." Red Smith concluded his col­saw the first city-operated shelter for children. Art a note at his new address. BERNIE G.ARBER 
umn, "If Jack could have written stage direction Children's Center, come into existence to serve met Art in Grand Central. The Denchfields expect for himself, they \vouId have been brief; Exit Laugh­thousands of youngsters. /\s Secretary- of the Com­to make their home in this country* after many ing." Al Buck wrote in the New York Post, "He mission, he also vvorked on the planning of the years in Latin .-Vmcrica. 
new Youth House for Boys, and on the develop­

pfy^-as a man of ready wit, with a warm personality CHET RICE is a manufacturer's representative 
ment of Youth House for Girls. Children appear­

and blessed with a great talent for making and with headquarters at 15209 Detroit .Ave., Cleveland. 
ing before him in Domestic Relations Court knew 

keeping friends. Tlic late Jack Lavelle was a nice Chct mentioned that he sees BILL MURPHY, the 
his kindness and concern for their indi\*idual needs. 

guy." Frank Graliam concluded in the New York Chicago chemical tycoon, frequently. 
The children who will come within these walls will 

Journal-American, *'Jack's wealth couldn't be Our Treasurer, TOM H.ART, reports that JOHN 
sense his presence and come to revere his memory 

measured or weighed. It consisted of love, charity, IGOE gave an excellent talk entitled "Your Voca­
as do wc who knew him and loved him." 

goodness of heart and purity of soul. Gene Ward tion," as principal speaker at the Columbus Catho­commented, ^'J^ck had the impish demeanor of a I wrote to Mrs. Callagy telling her how pleased lic Men's Lunclieon Club —- Our old friend Friar Tuck, the appetite of Henr>' the Eighth and wc were at this wonderful tribute to Bud. Mrs. FATHER VINCENT -MOONEY u-as the prindpal a genuine talent for friendship the like of which is Callag>- in her reply mentioned that she knew Bud speaker at the Columbus Club Communion break­seldom found." must be happy because he worked so very hard for fast. John Igoc, JOHN -MURPHY, JOHN FON-
Masses were arranged by our class for BERT unhappy children of New York City. Bud's oldest TANA and TOM HART arc active in the Colum­HAVEN, DR. JOHN VIKTORYN and JACK LA­son, Robert, is a junior at Georgetown University. bus Club Foundation work. VELLE. Please remember these and other de­His daughter and other son are high school stu­My son and I sat with JOHN HERBERT and 
ceased classmates in your prayers. dents. his son at the Boston Club Communion breakfast. 
• 
•Members of the Class of '25 gathered in the Mahogany Room after the Army game include Jerry Herlihy, Bemic Ley, Bill Hurley, Don 
Miller, George Laughlin, Bill Bell, Bernie Livergood, Clarence Harding, Ed Raub, Joe Harmon, Clarence Kaiser, Geo^e Lud%vig, John Hurley, Frank Steel, John Kane and '25-in-law Marion Armstrong. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 43 
John is with Will & Baumcr «ho arc in the reli­gious and decorative candles business. GEORGE CRONGEYER attended the Neu- York Club Com­munion breakfast at whicli tribute was paid to JACK LAVELLE. 
I briefly mentioned in my December newsletter that DR. DAX BRADLEY ^*-as selected by Sign magazine in their December issue in the People of the Month section. Sign commented that in the cloud of confusion concerning the Catholic position on artificial birth prevention, sterilization and mercj- killing, "an authoritative — and welcome — voice has recently gained national attention. Dr. Daniel J. Bradley, president of the medical board of Good Samaritan Hospital, Long Island, X. Y., appeared on John Wingatc's T\'^ program, Nighl­beaij and gave a brilliantly straight forward ex­planation of the Catholic approach to these con­troversial questions." Dan is a director of the National Catholic Physicians Guild. He also ap­peared on teleWsiun in a discussion, of abortion as Fannie Hurst's guest. 
JOE DOYLE, who is with the Wisconsin State Employment Service in LaCrosse, Wisconsin, visited his daughter and her family in Boston. One uf BOB HAMILTON'S daughters entered the noviti­ate of llie Jmmaculate Heart of Mary at Scranton. .Another daughter was married recently. Sccretarj* of Labor James Mitclicll announced last September the appointment of JOHN FREDRICK of Muske­gon, Midi., as a public member of an Industry* Committee to recommend minimum hourly rates under the Fair Labor Standards Act for three in­dustries in Puerto Rico. 
I had a good session with BILL JONES in Bos­ton when he enrolled his daughter at Newton Col­lege of the Sacred Heart. Bill was chairman of a committee to raise funds for the election of Senator Mike Mansfield of Montana. I also took PAUL FENLO N on my education institutions tour when he visited Boston this Fall. 
F.ATHER JI.M McSH.VNE, S.J., writes from his new assignment at St. Malacliy's Church in St. Louis that he has completed a movie for use in his work in a convert class. It illustrates points in the spiritual life with scenes from sports. I Jiopc all of you noted the wonderful tribute to Father Jim in the Denver Club report on page 28 of the November ALUMNUS in wludi reference was made to "this energetic Irishman, who has scr\-ed as conscience and counselor to hundreds of trou­bled Dcnvcrites." 
ED. McCL-MlNON is claim manager for TJic Travelers Insurance Company in their New York City brandi ofiice at 80 John Street. JOHN IGOE mentioned that he saw JOE DIRE who came to Columbus to locate there. John reports that Joe "looks ver>- young and trim — is the same affable Joe " I was sorr>' to hear that Joe's sister died suddenly recently, John sees our Treasurer TOM HART, who has his own insurance business in Columbus. John observed, "Tom is, as always, a jovial, wdl disposed dtizen." JOHN MURPHY'S son is winning some plaudits as a fixitball player in Columbtis High school cirdes. 
ED RAFTER reports that JERRY RAYBURN has recently returned to Chicago where he is safety engineer with S. A. Hcaly Company, Contractors. He has been in the same work all these years in 
PHILADELPHIA —Father Hcsburgh ac­cepts a $ 1,000 check for the University from the Notre Dame Club of Philadelphia, represented here by Foundation Chairman Jack Dempsey (left) and retiring Club President Walt Grothaus, at a President's Dinner Jast November, 
the New York area. Jerr>* has a married son and daughter and five grandcliildren. I mentioned in my newsletter that Jerry's return for the Army game and '28 cocktail party was his first visit to the campus since graduation. Ed also mentioned that BOB GRAHAM recently addressed the annual federal Tax Conference at the U. of Chicago on Redemption Problems^ "Bob's address appeared in the magazine, Taxes, in the December 1958 issue. Bob is a member of the law firm of Gardner, Car­ton, Douglas, Roemcr & Chilgrcn in Chicago. Ed met JOE LAUGHTON who was attending a Gen­eral Motors party for distributors in Chicago. Joe is President of the Laughton Auto Supply Com­pany of Peoria. 
1 referred to ED MOWERV's article in the No­vember 1958 issue of The Sign in my newsletter. Ed is a special writer for the Ncwhouse Newspa­pers. .As you know, he received the Pulitzer prize in 1953 for his successful scvcn-ycar fight to free 
a. falsely convicted person serving a life term for murder. It was good to see Ed at our reunion in June. 
Our President, JIM ALL.AN, visited GEORGE COURYy our V.P. for the South, in Miami. George had attended the Navy game. Bcrnie GARBER re­ported that the Miami Nev\-s carried a storv on GEORGE COURY'S gift of $100,000 to Notre Dame at our reunion in June. It is my under-

MOHAAVK VALLEY — At the head table for the Mohawk Valley Club's annual Com­munion Breakfast were (1. to r.) Judge Edmund A. McCarthy, principal speaker; Vincent Fictcher, '32, wee-president; Daniel >Vaterbury, '44, president; Roger Lemkc, '58, treasurer, and Kenneth Murphy, '54, secretary. 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

standing that our State Department used the ar­tidc to broadcast throughout the Middle East this proof that a Lebanese boy coming to this countr>* found tremendous opportunities. I v\'as pleased t(^ read the excellent article on George in the winter 1958 Issue of Notre Dame magazine. 
Our V.P. for the Mid-West, VINCE CARNEY, sees DENNY DALY regularly in St. Paul where Vince Itas a daughter at St. Catherine's College. SWEDE SCHRODER has two daughters there. I understand that Vlncc Carney is now taking pipe organ lessons. JOE SULLIV/\N, *29, an attorney in Chifrago, bos'a son at Holy Cross College in Mas­sachusetts and another at Quigley Prep. Seminar>­in Chicago. Tlic SuIHvans' have two other children in Chicago schools. 
Our V.P. for the East, BERNIE GARBER, is in­terested in a retreat for classmates immediately fol­lowing our 35lh reunion at Notre Dame. DICK-" \ QUINLAN and R/\Y MULLIGAN also have e.\^ pressed an interest in retreats for *28 men at Notre Dame. I hope those three get together to promote a retreat for June. 19G3. Bernie Garber also mentioned that his fellow-commuter FR/VNK DU­QUETTE, recently shot a deer — bow and arrow. No mean feat. 
A friend from Detroit mentioned recently that JI.M HURLBERT is personnel director for Crow­ley's Department store there. E.M.MET DOHANY is a salesman with Homer Warren in Detroit. R.\Y L.-V POIN'TE is a traffic manager in Detroit for Fud Oil Corporation. GEORGE FIT2GER/\LD is an engineer with Economy Forms of Fort Wayne, Indiana. CHARLES WILLIA.MS of South Bend is ^ a dicmical engineer with Ball Band. BILL 0'.MAR.%' is with Allison's in Indianapolis. WERNER HART­ING works for the Caterpillar company in Peoria. .MARION J. HEFFERNAN is employed by the First National Bank in Louisville, Ky. 
BILL KIRWAN reports that FR^VNK DONOV.VN and his son from Muskegon, Michigan, vbitcd him in Iowa City before the Iowa game. Bill operates the Kirwan Furniture Store there. 
My old roommate, DENNIS D.\LEY, visited us in Boston recently on his return from a business trip to Alaine. Dennis continues to practice law in St. Paul and teaches tax law at the University of Minnesota. He has two sons. I was sorry to hear of the death of Dennis' dad in June follow­ing our reunion. -N 
FATHER -MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., of thL%' Department of Economics at Notre Dame, has been elected vice-president of the Catholic Associa­tion for International Peace. 
I gave you a complete report in my December newsletter of our third annual '28 class cocktail party at the Morris Inn following the Army game. It was the largest attendance we have had, vrith 50 classmates and their families present. The old timers were pleased to welcome several men whom thcv had not seen for years induding CHARLEY CASH, HERB. McCABE, JERRY R.\YBURN, THO.MAS RODGERS and LEO ROZUM, GEORGE CRONGEYER, DON CORBETT. (A picture of the group attending appears in tliis issue.) Our Class President, JIM ALLEN, is working on a sct-^^ up for 1959 which will avoid the crowded condi­tions experienced this year. 
It was a pleasure to announce in the December .Vewsletter the marriage of EDMUND J. BREN­NAN in October at tlic Log Chapd. FATHER ANDY MULREANEY, C.S.C., performed the cere­mony and BROTHER BONIFACE served the Mass. Ed's new address is 6933 Crandon Ave, Chicago, 
111. BERNIE GARBER reports that he suspects by his Christmas card that ED McCORMACK has just married. Bernic also advised that he saw TURK KELLEY at Jack Lavdle's wake. Turk now has a second son, 
JI.M ALL.\N tells me that JOHN RICKORD i ^ in Ireland and Sweden "trving to teach the Irisl^' and Swedes how to butcher hogs properly so that they can be sold to thb countrv- for less than we poor farmers arc getting here." 
RAY MOCK advised that he saw BERNIE GAR­BER, JOE ABBOTT, VIC FISCHER, BILL KEL­LY, TIM TOOMEY and JOHN LAW at JACK LAVELLE's wake in New York. Ray reminded me thai JOHN VIKTORYN was one of Jack's dosest friends. Ray. as you know, is at St. Thomas Col­lege in St. Paul in placement work and finandal aid to students. He has two daughters, ages 7 and 
12. Rav has the pleasure of seeing almost daily BOB FOGERTY and Father BERNIE COUGH­LIN. Ray remarked regarding his roommate Jack Lavelle, "Tliose of us who knew him intimatclj^j were aware of his countless acts of consideration, thoughtfulncss, lundness and generosity." 
BOB KIRBY wrote, "Anyone that has maintained 

contact with Jack Lavcllc during the many years since 1928 must have experienced a stunned, heart­^Uck feeling upon learning of Jack's sudden death. 
^K know I did. I have a feeling that the first thing St. Peter asked Jack when he arrived up there was *Jack, let me hear once more that stor>- of the time your little daughter spoiled the visit of the dignified old Irish Monsignor to your home.' I'm sure that any of us that have a sincere prayer to utter — will say it for Jack." 
The Notre Dame Club of New York has joined an cfTori to raise funds !or JACK L/WELLE's widow and family. If any classmate would like to take part he can send his contribution to the Jack Lavclle Fund, Notre Dame Club of New York, 1600 Broadway, New York 19, N.Y. 
N. A. SEIDENSTICKER has been elected presi­^len t and general mangaer of the Chillicothe Paper V^o. in Chillicothe, Ohio. Norb was one of FATHER 
HOLDERITH*s golf stars when he was on the cam­pus. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Miss Mary Helen Croniu. daughter of Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. CRONIN of Larchmont, N.Y., was married last September to James J. Jordan, Jr., of White Plains, N.Y. 
JUNE 12-1314 
%AfMM^ 

1 929 I^^i'O' Stauder Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
MILES J. DEVINE, who attended Notre Dame with us as a freshman in 1925-26, died of a heart 
B
ittack December 8. 1958, in Chicago. His wife, >vho resides at 1325 Granville Avenue, Chicago, Survives, as do sons Miles, Jr. and John J. Mem­bers of the CIxss of '29 add their s\'mpathy to that of their many friends. Miles, once active in poli­tics, lias been a semi-Jnvalid for some time. 
We agree with the announcement made at the Army game of October II that never before had So many alumni of Notre Dame congregated at one place. Our own class did more than its share in making this statement true. The accompanying' pic­ture of 32 of the '29ers present at the class get-together in the Faculty Dining Room of the West Dining Hall is one evidence of our representation. Others arrived after the picture was taken and still others who had planned to make an appearance 
•tjnclude: REVEREND JOSEPH BARRY, C.S.C, 
^ROBERT W1LLIA.MS, JACK PERKINS, WALT MULFUR, BOB VOGELWEDE, FR.\NK CROWE, GAY HAAS, JA.\IES KE.\TING, FR^VNCIS JONES, ED MEDLrVND, LOUIE NIEZER, JOE WHALEN, JACK ELDER, REV. JOSEPH N. GARVIN, C.S.C, and REV. T. J. .MEHLING, C.S.C. 
Several /ortunatc circumstances added to the success of the reunion of '29crs that followed the game. A meeting place conveniently located on the campus that was not overcrowded was avail­able to us. Most every man present was accom­panied by his wife. While the acquaintance o! 
^ome dates back to 1925, this was the first occa-
Rion that a reunion of tliis kind included the w*ivcs. For the men, and I trust for the wives, this con­tributed mudi to the event. While this meeting was set up primarily as a prelimmar>' promotional device for the Thirty-year Reunion in June, tliere is no reason why a similar arrangement could not be repeated annually should the demand be suf­ficient. Wc thank JOE LENIHAN, GAY ILVAS, REV. LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., and others who helped make arrangements for the party. 
JACK N. PERKINS, Branch Manager of Mso­ciates Investment Company, South Bend, had ROB­ERT P. ^VILLIAMS, of Falls Church, Virginia, and Mrs. Williams as house guests the week end of the Army game. Jack and his wife have a son, 
^John N., aged 19, at Notre Dame and a daughter, 
"Rosemar>', aged 15, at St. Mar>"'s Academy. 
JAMES T. GALL.\GHER, formeriy with the Cubs, is now with the Philadelphia Phillies and has moved his family, consisting of uife Eva and son Tinimy, to 6500 Wissahickon Ave., Philadelphia. He u-ill be back for the reunion in June. DON PLUNKETT kept in touch with Jim and his ac­tivities in years past and we hope to hear from Jim again soon. 
Those who attended the Army game reunion were pleased to have Dorothy (Mrs. DON PLUN­KETT at the gathering. We all continue to miss Don whose untimely death May 19, 1957, will soon be two years ago. The Class at that time through Mickc\- contributed a total of some two or three hundred dollars to the educational fund for the children who sur\-ived Don. 
ROBERT N. ALT, 901 Pl>Tnouth Road S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan, who is Vice-President of the Mclnerney Spring and Wire Company, plans to make the reunion. His family consists of James, 17; Robert N., Jr., 15; Richard J., 13; Nancy Ann, 10; and William E., 6. 

BOB VOGELVEDE spoke to students of A.I.E.E. on the campus in November on inteni*iews for em­ployment at the time he was here to recruit for the auditing firm of which he is a partner. We hear that HUGH .McMANIGAL's intentions to catch up on some fishing arc still just good in­tentions postponed by his many other activities as president and manager of Hugh J. McManigal, Inc. and civic afTairs. Hugh and Hazel now have nine grandchildren. 
About 75% of those who have replied to class mailings have indicated that they plan to attend the 30-ycar reunion in June. In addition to the replies from those on the '29 roster, we have a request from JACK ELDER, Indianapolis, who matriculated with us in September, '25, and made excellent use of an extra semester of football eligi­bility to become identified with the Class of '30. He wishes to receive reunion notices and to join with us in June. Judging from the obvious cordial­ity with which Jack and members of his family were received by the '29ers at the x\rmy game re­union, his attendance in June is mutually antici­pated. 
JOHN P. .MANNING of the U. S. Naval Research Laboraior>*, Washington, D.C., recently wrote to your secretary" as follows: 
"I noticed In the current issue of the .-VLUMNUS that plans are progressing at a rapid rate con­cerning the 30-year reunion of the Class of '29. 
'"Officially, I guess I am a member oE the Class of '30, however, I spent three years In the Class of '29 and was forced through illness In the early part of 1929 to drop out. I resumed and gradu­ated with the Class of '30. My major contacts were with the '29ers and I have always consid­ered myself allied to that group. I am planning to return to the campus for the reunion for the first time since our ten-year reunion. Please put me on your mailing list and If there is anything I can do to help you, please don't hesitate to let me kftou*. Perhaps a list of the *29 men in this area to contact u*ill be helpful.'* 
John's home address is 1202 Pinecrest Circle, Sil­ver Spring, Maryland. John has recently taken ad­vantage of FATHER LOUIS THORTON's facili­ties at the Placement office on the campus to re-emit recent graduates for the Laboratory. 
REV. JAMES E. NORTON, C.S.C., a past Vice-President at Notre Dame, Is now located at the University of Portland where he Is assistant to the President. President at Portland is REV. HOW­ARD KENNA, CS.C. 
^L\RCELLUS KIRCHNER, of Wlnston-Salem, North Carolina, has been III. ^Ve wish him a speedy recovery. 
The members of the Class of '29, individually and as a class, share a feeling of pride and grati­tude In the elev-atlon of CARDINAL JOHN F. O'RARA, CS.C , to that position of honor by Pope John XXni. 
Local plans for the 30-year reunion are well un­derway. The Alumni office Is continuing Its policy of holding the registration fee to a very minimum. Within this framework there Is still pro\'tsion for a Friday evening class dinner for the '^crs at the Morris Inn, as in '54. 
Some beginnings have been made for luncheons by groups at noon on Saturday. The Engineers, for instance, may purchase luncheon tickets and re­peat their meeting of '54 with older faculty people and classmates. Others, such as Journalists, Glee Club members. Commerce men, etc., may wish to schedule similar luncheons. 
The revised class rosier will soon be In the mail to each of vou. Our vice-presidents — "MICKEY" McMAHON for the South, JOE LENIHAN for the East, JOE WHALEN for the Mid-West, and BILL SIDENFADEN for the West — will be supplement­ing- your secretarj*'s publicity efTorts and those of the /Vlumni office. They and we welcome sugges­tions and assistance. 
1 930 I^evere Flunkett 
•y<JW O'Shaughnessy HaU Notre Dame, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: FATHER VINCEN~r J. Mca\ULEY, CS.C, x%^ chosen last fall as Superior of the newly formed Holy Cross Mission In .-Vfrica. Accompanying Father McCaulc>- on his new assignment to the Fort Portal area of the Mbarara Diocese in Ugan­da, Central East Africa, were three newly ordained Holy Cross priests. Fathers FRANCIS ZAGORC, ROBERT HESSE and BURTON E. SMITH, CS. C Father McCauley was ordained at Notre Dame in 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Early sunlight glows through glass clubhouse walls for Oklahoma City Club's Communion Breakfast at the Country Club last December 7, following Mass at St. Francis of Asshi Church. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 . 45 
1934 and, after teaclilng two years of graduate study, was assigned to tlic Bengal Missions in Iii­<fia. Illness forced his return to mission head­quarters in Washington, D.C., where he has bii*n Superior of the Seminary and assistant procurator. 
JOHN LAW gave football fans a Sew lauglis last season when a UPI intcnie^vcr quoted somt of John's reminiscences about his coacliing days at Sing Sing back in the thirties. 
Professor RICHARD SULLIVAN opened Souili Bend's Aquinas lecture series with a talk on modem treatments of tlie King Arthur legend. 
Classmates mourned the passing of JOSEPH .A. MORAN, pioneer governor of tlic Notre Dame Foundation for Oklahoma, also very active in the Knights of Columbus. Joe left his widow, Jane, thn-c sons and two daughters. 
IOO 1  James T. Doyle  
• "*  902 OaktonS t  
£\'aiiston,  Illinois  

It was the day after Christmas, and all through the office not a creature was stirring except JIM DOVLE, who was busy trying to get his class notes in just a few days late. Among those out-of-towners sending Christmas greetings were TOM MONA­HAX, SPIKE SULLIVAN, BUD TOUHY, F. X. MURPHY, FREDDIE SWLVT and TONt ASHE. I =l5« heard from JACK JAEGER, '33, of New York City. F. X. appended quite a letter on his card and asks for RED O'COS'NELL who is now living In Wilmctte, GEORGE COSTELLO sent a note after ir>-ing unsuccessfully to reach me at the of-ii<re. On September 27, their latest child, a girl, Rosemary*, was born. George asks that his Christ­mas greetings be passed on to all the class. 
Since the last issue of the Alumnus I have been the gratcftJ rcdplcnt of several letters suppling nrws for your column. I had a note from SPIKE SULLIVAN who also promises to send his annual football xisitors report to me : 
"Pleaie forgive mc for not haxing responded ear­lier to your good letter of September 21 whicli ar­rived during my absence in W^estem Canada (back at the scat of Canadian professional football as pio­neered by CARL CRONIN, the learned wizard himself). 
"In Dallas, I am looking forward to seeing BERT MALONEY and pcriiaps a few others but will certainly give you, at a suitable time, a letter for your fruitful column. 
"Last night I had a call from TOM MONAHAN regarding our arrangements to join forces in South Bend at the .Army game. I told him that you would be on hand and we shall look forward to seeing you to say nothing of your entourage. We will be registered at the Hoffman Hotel. 
"For the present therefore, thanks for the kind act and the good word and we'll sec you before long. Please remember us to Kay." 
RAY COLLINS and his \rife, Bernlce, drove up to Kalamazoo after one of the games to \isit the GERALD DES.MONDS. Gerr>'s wife, Dorothy, had been quite 111, but is now well on the road to recovery. Tlicir address is 744 Haiflej' Street, Kalamazoo, Michigan. I think GORDIE SALMON would like to have this address. Gerr\' also saw JOE BLANEY recently in Kalamazoo. This should awaken a nostalgic thought with JOE BOYLAND and JOE DEEB and prompt them to drop me a line. 
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago held its first annual Knute Rockne Football award for the out­standing Catholic High sdiool player. Tills award is based primarily on scliolastic achievement and the selections are made by the editors of Chicago newspapers. In atte-idancc were NICK BOHLING, GIL SEANL«^\ RAY COLLINS, EDDIE RYAN and JIM DOYLE. In the event local classmates failed to receive notice of this affair. It was due to non-pa\Tnent of local club dues. Unfortunately, due to high mailing costs, it has been necessary to limit mailing of all announcements to those who arc supporting the dub. So please get on tfcc wagon and send in your clieck when you receive your dues notice. JOHN C. SHERMAN, Santa Fe Freight .Agent, was on hand and hopes to become more active In attending functions. MATT GAR­RIGAN, another faithful helper, sent a letter in September: 
"I've been sitting on tliis long enough to hatch more than I have but rather than just a sitting, better I should pass on what I have. "Since last wc had a xisit BOB RUPPE and his 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
HERBERT W. HART, '31 For Detroit's finest, a best-drcsscd boss 
Last September H. W. "Burt" Hart ac­cepted office as civil head of the police de­partment of the City of Detroit. Commis­sioner of Police is an entirely new title and role for native Detroiter Hart, already re­nowned as a businessman, clubman and philanthropist. 
Commissioner Hart had achieved nation­al fame in 1951 and 1952 when he was named one of the ten best dressed men in America by the Custom Tailors Guild^ along with President Eisenhower, Winthrop Rockefeller, Bob Hope and Leo Durocher. 
After Notre Dame Burt joined C. F. Smith Co., his grandfather's grocery chain, as a store clerk, working successively as wholesale stock boy, bakery manager, pro­duce buyer, grocery' buyer, executive vice-president and, from 1948, president. In 1952, as principal stockholder, he sold out to National Tea Co., retaining the C. F. Smith Co. of Florida (citrus interests) and Michigan's H. W. Hart Co. (real estate). 
Burt is a director of Florida firms grow­ing, packing and processing fruit, plus De­troit Harbor Terminals, Inc. He is also co-owner and director of the Royal Palm Inn, a Phoenix, .A,riz., resort hotel. 
Rejected as a Na\y volunteer in World War II (health and ah essential job), he was cited t\vice for "meritorious and out­standing" ser\'icc to the Na\*>* in U.S.O. and recruiting. His civic and charitable ef­forts include directorship of Boysxnlle and Columbian Charities and charter member­ship in the famous 100 Club ministering to police and fire dept widows and orphans. 
Burt and Dorothy Hart, daughter Gayle, 18, and son Jay, 14, alternate residence in Detroit and on Lake St Clair. Somehow the Commissioner finds a little time for golf, bowling, skiing and yachting, with member­ship in the Detroit Athletic and Golf Clubs, the Grosse Pointe Yacht and Hunt Clubs and the Otsego Ski Club. 

family have been in Detroit once over tlie Christ­mas liolidays and again over the Labor Day iveck end. As usual MARTIN WIDER, his wife and some-^ friends gathered around until the wee hours visir^ ing. Was down at school during the Spring game, whicli incidentally is a trip I'm sure anyone would enjoy, and ran Into a little 1931 reunion. Met and liad visits »vith AL GRISANTl, «ho just stopped In, tlic Golddust Twins, SPIKE SULLIVAN and TOM MONAHAN. Congrats to Tom whose son Is on the squad, so boys keep your eyes open dur­ing the season for the next generation. Next morn­ing met COLEMAN O'SHAUGHNESSEV and his wife who have a son In his freshman year. Might add Sulli\'an and Munahan never did show at my room that week end. 
"Talked by phone with BEN OAKES this sum­mer while on his way through town. Ben is linln.c_ up Army tickets as is ever%'body else. Ben invite^^ me and I pass it along to a rendezvous at the Morris Inn after the Anny game where he will be with a group of Kansas City people, maybe you can be there, BOB RUPPE said he would. So I'll be seeing you then Jim. 
"Abo during the summer JIM McQUAID and Marie were in town on their way to St. Anne De Beaupre from the Notre Dame retreat. HEINIE KOPEK had us to dinner that night with the McQualds and later MARTIN WIDER and Loret­la joined the party. Marie McQuaid kept us quite interested with picture slides of their trip to Rome. MGM could not have done a better job. It was a grand visit and a pleasant evening. _^ 
*'Hope this is filler for your deadline Jim, %%*lsli\^ I had more. If Bob Massey reads thb. Where have you been?" 
Thanks, ^latt. I am sure many others join inc In enjoying your always welcome comments. Among those seen at the Army game were BILL KIRBY, '32. the long lost BOB SMITH, FR.\NK HOL­LAND, BILL LEAHV, SEY.MOUR GROSS, CARL CRONIN, JACK SAUNDERS, MATT GARRI­G.\N, BEN OAKES, SPIKE SULLIVAN, TO.M .MONAH.\N, GENE VALLEE, EDDIE AGNEW, JOHN WEIBLER, EDDIE RYAN and BERT MA­LONEY. RED O'CONNELL, in his travels through northern Illinois ran into ED "BULL** FOLEY, In Waukegan and passed on the news of the recent-marriage of DOS MIHAN. He also saw PHIL* BYRNES of Howard Hall days. Red's son is now doing a hitch In the Navy. Speaking of Waukegan, an old-timer has moved far away. JOE KIRBY is now in Wichita, Kansas, and living at 6512 Mar­jorie Lane. PHIL KONOP has moved to Franklin, Tenn., where his address is R. R. No. 5. JI^I RORKE has made a transcontinental trek from Westport, Conn., to 4328 Ben Ave., North Holly­wood, CaliL MOON MULUNS sends a news re­lease telling of his great love of knowledge during his da\*s at N.D.: 
"While reading your notations concerning the class of '31 (also DEVERE PLUNKETT*S on the class of '30) in the ALUMNUS I figured either o^ ^ both of you, as welt as a number of my classmates might be interested in the following; our boy Larr\', who attended Notre Dame before beginning his studies for the priesthood has been at the Xorth American College in Rome for the past three years. He will be ordained over there this December 20. On December 22 he will marr\- our daughter, Mary Ellen, to Rocco J. Matera of St. Ambrose College in St. Peter's Basilica, Vatican City. Mary, my wife, and 1 and our daughter ^faggle are going to Rome with Mary Ellen and her fiance for the dou­ble-header. If there are any N. D. men In Rome they would be most welcome to be present at either or both occasions. /f^ 
"After a week or so in Rome we will headfor^ Castle Island, County Kerr\', Ireland, the greatest city In all Europe, the home of my parents. Tlicy are both deceased now but we will have the pleas­ure of being with many of our close relatives. 
"Wc fly from New York City December 15. 

''I'm sending a copy of this letter to Devere be­cause I was really a part of the class of '30. But I liked So many of my subjects so well I took them twice and wound up in the class of '31.'* 
Moon had quite a writeup in the Chicago Dally News of September 6 and looked quite handsome in his picture. RICHARD RYAN, *58, son of EDDIE RYAN, Is president of the campus group. i=^ the Chicago Club of Notre Dame. Last summer ran into EDDIE AGNEW and JAY REYNOLDS on their way to the Top Deck at Gordon Lodge in Door County. 
Another vcr>- welcome letter came from JIM BOSCO, a classmate wc haven't heard from in a ^long time. 
"After reading your interesting column these many years 1 was especially impressed with your offerings in the November issue of the ALUMNUS and was moved to the point where I decided, since youVc been an ardent worker with the quill, the least some of us can do is to respond. One of these years I wotdd like to attend the Chicago Club's annual golf outing at the Elmhurst Country Club as it would be most pleasant to renew some old acquaintances — furthermore, that \%'as origin­ally the area of my home base. I am a candy broker covering the state of Ohio — I call on candy and tobacco wholesalers^ phis drug and grocery' chains — I represent L. S. Heath S: Sons of Rob­
feinson. III., (Heath bars) and the Ferrara Candy Co. of Chicago, III. Sorry not to be sending you a newsy message; however, I've finally written you the 'hello' I have wanted to send you for a long time — keep up the good work." 
Jim, it was a real pleasure to hear from you and I have made a memo on my calendar to send you info on our 1959 golf outing. AVc will look forward to seeing you. Any other classmates who Would like to be advised of the Chicago Alumni Club's Golf Party should send their request to mc, accompanied by a ncwslctler, no rc5cr\"aiion check required. 
I sent Jim and Marie McQuaid an order fur a ni lagazinc subscription and, of course, received their 
Ui 
• 'usual excellent reply with plenty of comments on 
other '3Iers. 
"How- nice to hear from you again, and thank you for the subscription. I am enclosing the re­ceipt, and the bill too, as you suggested to your address in £\'anston. 
"We are both fine, outside of sniffles, and a slight cold. Jim is coaching his freshman team at Vincennes University, and enjoying it as usual. We made the Army game this Fall, and had the usual wonderful time. 
"Had a good letter from FATHER BERNARD RANSING in Rome last week, and he says he made a visit to the States recently — wc were 
iLhoping he might get down to Vincennes, but be said his time ran out. Tliat Rome Notre Dame Club, under the capable leadership of JERRY ASH­LEY and VINCE MoXLOON seems to be doing big things. They no doubt will go all out to wel­come ARCHBISHOP O'HAR^V. Wc wired our con­gratulations to Archbishop, and had a ver>* gracious note from him last week. 
"Wc plan to go to £\*ansvillc next Sunday, for the annual Communion Sunday and breakfast after­wards. It is always good to get into a "gab-fest" with the boys and their wives — and ^vc always enjoy it. 
tL 
"Wc have had a great deal of pleasure (and we hope we have given some too) in showing our color slides of Lourdcs and Rome and Ireland to about 40 groups. Don't ask us to show them unless you are serious, we warn you — for wc will do so at the drop of a hat! Made Detroit this past x\ugust, and HEINIE KOPEK and MATT GARRIGAN got a group together and we had quite an evening at Heinie's home. Wc are still so grateful to the Re­treat group, and to all of the '31crs who assisted and made our dream of going to Lourdcs a reality — our sincere thanks and prayers.'* 
Unless your sons arc selling magazine subscrip­tions it would be an excellent idea to send them to Jim at Vincennes, Indiana. 
LOU BUCKLEY, tlie sage of '28. sent mc a letter he received from DxVNIEL J. BUCKLEY, '28, saying that JIM CH/VDWICK, '32, is now in .•\mit\-\illc, N.Y., and has done quite well as a contractor. Jim owns a motel In Westhampton, 
L. I., the name of which, I believe, is Triara Bay. He also mentioned JACK FOLKS, *30, who owns and operates a big lumber operation on Long Is­land. I want to say hello to Jack's wife, the for­mer Bunny O'Kecfc, who went to grammar sdiool In Chicago with Gil Seaman and myself. 
While in New Orleans in November, my wife and I Were strolling through the French Quarter and ran Into BILL BRO.M^VNN and his wife, Mil­dred. The>' both looked wonderful. Bill was hav­ing his portrait done and it turned out so well I went back the next day for mine. Bill has a son, a senior at Notre Dame. 
On our return, wc stopped in Nashville, Tenn., and phoned FREDDIE SWINT. I was unable to see or talk to him as he had undergone a severe car operation that morning. I have since written Fred and hope that he has completely recovered. 
This about covers the final column written in 1958. Your continued interest and support will help provide even more Interesting news in the future. My best wishes to all for a happy and prosperous New Year. 
From the Alumni Office: 
FRfVNK CARIDEO has been appointed state cam­paign chairman for the 1959 Iowa Heart Fund. All American Frank is an insurance executive in Cedar Rapids. 
JOHN G. DORSCHEL was elected president of the 39-ycar-old New York State Automobile Deal­ers' Assn. John is president of Dorschel Buick in Rochester, X.Y., and is the first Rochester dealer to head the association, largest in the nation. He was president of the Rochester Auto Dealers' Assn. in 1956. 
Tlicre has been no word on the outcome, but wc presume FRANK .McCULLOUGH was successful in his quest for re-election to a fifth term ia the upper house of the New York Legislature. John has been a state senator since 1950. 
•t 

1932 James K. CoUins 
• ^^ 3336 Kcnraorc Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
Many members of the class were on hand in Cleveland for the dinner honoring the Most Rever­end PAUL J. HALLLVAN on Nov. 6. This was one of the many e\'cnts given In his honor, and was a function of the N. D. Club of. Cleveland. 
Among those there %verc REV. JOHN WILSON, C.S.C., REV. JERRY WILSON, C.S.C., REV. FRANK G.\RTLAND, C.S.C., HUGH BALL, MIKE CRAWTORD, JACK COLLINS, SARGE Rx\LEIGH, BILL VAN ROOY. JERRY LINN, JOHN KEENER, FRANK MARLEY, NICK RUF­FING, JERRY KLINE, PAUL O'TOOLE, JOHN HOCKWALT and DON McMANUS. .Many of these came a considerable distance both for the Con­secration and the dinner. 
BISHOP HALLINAN ^^•as consecrated on Octo­ber 28, and installed as Bishop of Charleston on November 25. His present address is 114 Broad St., Charleston, S.C. 
FRANK MARLEY was Democratic Chairman for Several counties during the last election and was Instrumental In electing Gov. DiSalfe. His son, Francis, Is playing freshman basketball on the cam­pus and is a good prospect fur the varsity next year. Frank said titat last time they measured him he was 6 feet 8 inches tall. 
LEX DUNN gave a lecture to the Law School on the morning of the .Army game on the subject of handling personal injur\- claims in court. Len has specialized in this field in his law practice. 
PAUL OTOOLE said his son, Paul, is In Quig-Icy Seminar>' in Chicago, and is a top student. Paul readily admitted that this accomplishment comes from the Wilson side of the family. 
BOB LEE has been selected for Captain in the Naw. He Is the Legal Officer at the Nav-al Air Station. Jacksonville, and is a frequent contributor to legal publications of the Armed Services. 
From the Alumni Office: LEO NEWMAN and NATH.-\N "NATE" .ALT­M.AN, partners since 1935 and Packard dealers since 1938, have acquired the second Studebaker franchise In South Bend and will henceforth sell the full Sludcbakcr-Packard line of trucks, "Hawks" and *'Larks." 
1933 Joseph A. McCabe 
I T^ * 2215 lincoln Evanston, Illinois 
From the .Alumni Office: WILLIAM J. BODO has been named manager of the Prudenlia! Insurance Company's West Park district office In Philadelphia. With Prudential since 1937, Bill has been a staff manager and training 
i » 
«,''i r-
Among '29ers gathered on campus for an Army game party were Secretary Larry Stauder, Earl Leach, Frank McAnaney, Paul Hcnuny, 
*Joe Friel, Joe Bamett, Rev. Regis Riter, C.S.C.; Gene MIIHff, Jim Friel, Leo Rees, Rev. Otis Winchester, Frank Doan, John Nash, Paul Bartholomew, John Cushman, John Burke, Mickey McMahon, John Colangelo, Ed DcBacne, Joe Nash, Bill Biscr, Karl Martcrsteck, Bill Neff, Joe Dorgan, Frank Heupel, John Bro»-n, Joe Lenihan, Jim Curry, Francis Flynn, Ed Coyle, Rev. Louis Thornton, CAC , and Hugh McIVIanigal. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 47 
<ronsuItant for the company. Bill and tvife Made-Seine have three irhildrcn, William, Jr., 22; John, 15, and Mary Kay, 7. The Bodos live in Haver-town, which is also the home of classmate CH.\RLES A. CONLEY. Charlie is an attorney 
•\nth the Veterans Administration in Philadelphia and just completed a close tr>- for the Alumnt As­sociation board of directors. 
LOUIS R. CHREIST, JR., has been promoted to the new ofHcc of executive \icc-president of the South Bend Toy Manufacturing Company, Inc. He continues to head all manufacturing and procure­snent and will retain his former ofhce as treasurer. 
Commander JOHN F. GILL, quality control offi­cer and inspector of ordnance at the Xa\'al Ord­nance Plant in Pomona, Calif., is the author of a paper discussed at the third Electronic Industries Association conference on electrical connections at the Stallcr-Hilton hotel in Dallas, Texas, last Dc­<;cmber 2. 3 and 4. 
Promotion of FREDERICK J. L.AUGHNA to di­rector of branch operations for Chrj-sler Corpora­lion's Airtcmp division was announced last Octo­ber. • Formerly manager of the New York branch, Fred has been with the Chr>'sler Corporation for more tlian 25 years. He'll make his home in Day­ton with Mrs. Laughna and their six children. 
DR. JOHX PICK, professor of English at Mar­<)uctte University, was thi featured speaker at the first meeting of the Marquette Fine Arts Guild last fall. He defended modem art in a talk entitled "Wiat is Modern .-\rt?" 
JUNE 12-13-14 
RWmON 
'-N^|...->,<Si;---.'— 
CLASS 

^O^A T. Edward Carey 
• '^ ^ 18843 Inglewood Ave Rocky River 16, Ohio 
Tilt big dale is approaching! Have you made your plans yet? The 25th is the BIG ONE. Don't jniss it! 
You received an up-to-date Class Roster in No­vember. Tliat's to help you line up your friends for the big doings. Use it! Drop a line to that old roommate- Make a date for June 12th. 
Changes since the Roster was distributed include: 30 B McDONOUGH from .\rlinglon, Va., to Of­iicc of PMST, Siena College, Loudcn\-iIle, N. Y.; ALDEX OLANDER from South Bend to 2607 E. :Broad St., Columbus, Ohio; GEORGE ROCHE­LEAU and DOX .McINTOSH from Winnclka to 23 'Grand Park Ave., Scarsdale, X. Y.; TO.M CHOLIS (formerly Tsiolis) from South Bend to 41 Keats Rd., Short Hills, X. J.; DR. JOHX PORTER­FIELD from Columbus, Ohio, to H.E.W. BIdg. X, Room 5065, Washington, D. C ; FRAXCIS TOO­MEY from Albany to 219 Orcliard Dr., W., S>-ra­cuse, X. Y.; PAUL .MARTERSTECK from Louis­ville to 140 Apawanis Ave., Rye, X. Y.; and JOHN aARDIXALE from Elkliart to 1785 X. EI Molina 
_-\ve., Pasadena, Calif. 
A letter from FRAXK S.\XDERA of Baltimore, reads in part: "You might be interested in know­ing that at our recent Xotrc Dame-Xa\y rallv in Baltimore, I ran into CLIFF SAUSVILLE, *34, of ?Cew* Jersey, xvhom I have not seen in twenty-four years, and then at the game the next day sat next to JOE REGAN', '34, formerly from Bridgeport and now residing at Silver Spring, Mar\*land. With him was GEORGE REESE, also of our class and also li\ing in the Washington area." 
Frank also inquired into the whereabouts of JACK KIELY. Can anyone help? PAUL MARTERSTECK is now the Director of 
Purcliascs for Seagram's, with offices in New York. The Marterstecks and their three youngsters reside in Rye (good address for a Seagram's man). Baili­wick of DON BRICE. We expect to see you boys in June. 
Had a very pleasant visit with TOM STRITCH 

•during the A. B. Ad\isory Council meetings. Tom is the head of the Department of Communication Arts, of the A. B. College, and is doing a fine job. Tliis department covers journalism, drama, and xadio-television, a broad field indeed, and worthy of the Prof's many talents. 
During the same week end we had a chance to 

•48 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 
M. Harrj* "Red" Miller (left foreground), of ^Vilmington, Del., and William C. "Bill" Schmitt, Portland, Ore, gridiron greats of 1909, are obWousIy enjoying this moment of last October's Na\y game in Baltimore. 
see HUGH DEVORE, who was happy with his freshman team; BOB (i\H!LL, who was happy that his tickets \vere all sold; and MOOSE KRAUSE, who was happy that the golf season was over and he didn't have to give any more strokes. 
CHARLEY CASH.MAN b back in South Bend after several years in Toronto. Cliarley is with Clyde Williams & /Vssociates, Professional Engineers. 
MSGR. ED. SEWARD was in his usual good form when he represented our Arclibishop and the priests of the Diocese, at a dinner given by the local Notre Dame Club for PAUL HALLINAX, '32, recently appointed Bishop of Charleston, S. C. 
We missed connections with AL PHAXEUF in Cleveland a few weeks ago, but hope to have bet­ter luck next time. Al is all set for the reunion, how about vou? 
JOHNNY VEXABLES reports a visit with JOHX "BRUTE" BEGLEY recently. "Brute" Is now a Record Publisher in Xew York, so, when you see the Unique Record Co. label remember, that's one of our bo>-s. Johnny, with his brother Herb, oper­ates the Venables Machine & Tixil Co. here, and reports that business is ver>' 5atisfactor>'. 
BOB BUTLER and his family arc back in Cleve­land, from Racine. Bob is with Jack & Heintz, manufacturers of electrical components. Bob's first purcliase upon returning was a boat, which shows what that Land o* Lakes country will do to you. 
Remember the Dates, June 12-13-14! Make your plans! Be there! From the Alumni Office: 
JOHN* E. H/\XLEY was a successful candidate for re-election as a county commissioner in St. Jo­seph Countv, Indiana, last November. 
ANTHONY J. PUGLIESE, an I.N.S. veteran, has joined the USO public relations staff and heads the newly organized news and feature section designed to enlarge USO ser\'ice to press associa­tions and all news media. His last Job was the foreign news desk of United Press International. Among the big stories Tony has Iiandled are the FBI Nazi spy roundup in World War II and the Hauptmann execution for the Lindbergh kidnap­ping. Tony and his wife Blanche have two sons, the eldest of whom, John, is a freshman at N. D. 
JOHN O. CARDINALE is now in Pasadena as basketball coach at St. Francis High School. 
BOB KELLEY started in November with the Los Angeles chapter of the National Electrical Contrac­tor's Association. Bob, Jr., is at N. D., as is BEN SALVATY's son, Ben, Jr. 
193 5 Franklyn C. Hochrciter 
• '^ ^ 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Maryland 

From the Alumni OfHcc: Judge E. SPENCER WALTON, formerly mayor 
of Mishawaka, Ind., has been returned to the 
bench of Superior Court No. 1 by St. Joe County 
voters. -^ 
DR. GEORGE J. FOSS has been appointed di Q 

rector of the Lancaster, Ohio, packaging engineer­
ing and research laboratories of Anchor Hocking 
Glass Corporation recently. George has had sev­
eral top positions in management consulting, re­
search and development. 
The item on TOM HILS in the last issue u-as 

not meant to be facetious. It was the result of a 
typographical error. Actually Tom's tennis record 
has not been equalled. 
ROCCO V. SCHIRx\LLI, besides retaining his 

insurance and real estate office, is deputy control­
ler and purchasing agent for the City of Gar>-, 
Indiana, and a very busy man. 
JOHN SHODROX has been promoted to man­ager of the Chicago division fleet sales district oC l the commercial sales department, Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc. Formerly manager of the company's ^fadison, Wisconsin, district, John has four chil­dren, John Jr., Michael, Thomas and Sarali Anne. 
Classmates were saddened by the death of LEO 

B. EXGLISH last fall. "Barney," according to word from the Toledo Club, was president of the Xapolcon Creamery* and an outstanding example of what a Catholic layman should he. He was very active in the Christian Family movement and the St. Vincent de Paul Society. It was he who rc­acti\-ated the Xotrc Dame Club of Toledo after World War 11. Surviving are his widow Pauline and eight children. 
Congressman BILL MILLER has been icturnedC!| to the U. S, House of Representatives. ^ 
JOHX H. XEESOX, JR., of Bala Cynu->d, Pa., and his wife Dolores sailed to Rome for a month in December to witness the ele\*ation of Boston's RICHARD CxVRDIXAL CUSHIXG and Philadel­phia's JOHX aVRDINAL 0'HAR.\ to the purple. Highlight of the Neesons' trip u'as the singling out of their two boys, Peter, 10, and Richard, 8. for a special blessing from the Pope for all Amer­ican children. His Holiness said he was bestowing an apostolic benediction on the American pilgrims **and above all the cliildrcn of America as repre­sented by these t\%'o who arc with us." 
1 93& Robert F. Ervin 
• '**' 1329 Kensington Rd. Grossc Pointe Park, Mich. 
JI.M SHERRY helped our cause a great deal when, as President of the Class, he asked you to write to your secretary". This response should he a good kick off for 1939 and permit us to give vou some news of interest. How about notes from BILL BELDEN, GEORGE (SPIKE) a\XXOX, PAUL DiGIOVAXNI, JxVCK GLE/\SO-V, AXDY HUFNAGEL, (DR.) BILL McCR/VLEY. SAM REED, DICK SNOOKS, and JACK WHITAKER for our next issue? Come on, fellov*-s, now that we have the ice at least cracked, let's hear from you. 
But to get back to the items for this column'^|% JACK BR:\Y, the Sage of Paducali, who is in the " wholesale drug business, indicates business is good and he is a "member in good standing" of the Alumni Association. Jack has three children; one at Stephens College, one in junior high school, and a baby two years old. How about letting us know-about Alumni activities in Paducah, Jack? 
JI.M FOOHEY of Fort Wayne writes: 
"Just sent in my check for the Class of 1936, and was reminded by JIM SHERRY to write you. Xoted that in the current ALUMXUS, our class had hut a few lines which, of course, is no fault of yours. Am still associated with HARRY HUM­BRECHT, '34, in the architectural profession, and-_ have also started a new business in the Credit Lift^^ Insurance field with DICK McARDLE, '37. How we Xotre Dame men stick together!! Have seen a few '36ers at ball games this fall — FRED Mc-XEILL, ART .MULHOLL.VXD, JOE O'NEILL — to name some. 
*'Hope all is well with you and your family. Say hello to ART CRONIN, LEE .MOOR.MAN, JOHN ANNIS, and any of my other Detroit friends if you should happen to see them. Hope to be able to give you other news of '35ers later." 
Good to hear from you, Jim. Saw ART CRONIN about two weeks ago at the Detroit Club Com­munion Breakfast. I guess Moorman was on a hunting trip that day. 
PERENNIAL PALKOVIC reports that BILl A 

GILSTOX is with the EDWARD THOMSOX Com* ' 
panv, law book publishers, Albany, Xew York. Lar­
r>' would like to hear from HAROLD HAUSER, 
a fellow member of the g>in team while in school. 
Hou- about it, Harold? Palko\-ic*s address is 207 
X. Market Street, Johnstown, New York- JACK 

MILES passes along the news that COLONEL JIM ^HOGAX, *36, is the newly-assigned Air Attache ^'at the U. S. Embas5>' in Copenhagen. My class 
list docs not include a Jim Hogan but maybe Jack is right. Anybody know? 
Thanks for the Christmas cards from JOHNNY WALKER, FRED WEBER, and BILL WALSH. It was good to have a few hours in Louisville, Ken­tucky, u-ith (Dr.) NORV aVSPER and Mar>-Lorctta. Norv is still using his expert eye for foot­ball talent to steer athletes to the "right" school. From Nor\*'s efforts in the past Notre Dame has had some really good Louisville football players and he says the future prospects are bright. 
And now for the most surprising and interesting letter received in some time: 

^P "I have been receiving mail for some time now at ray address for a JOHN SHEEHAN of the Class of 1936 at Notre Dame. I wish I was a member of that class because I love Notre Dame as much as any graduate but unfortunately I never went to any college. In fact I had to leave school after the tenth grade. I have been donating a little money now and then to Notre Dame as a non-alumnus, and regularly receive mail as such, and so I usu­ally get two letters because they think tlierc arc two such persons at this address. This last letter I received from JIM SHERRY had your name on it as Class Secrelarj- and I thought I had better write so you wouldn't think John Sheehan was neglecting the Class of '36. 
^ P "I wish I was an alumnus of Notre Dame Class of 1936. In fact, if it were possible, I would be an honorar>' member of that class. If I had fin­ished school and gone to Notre Dame, I would have been just about right for your class as I am now 45 years old. 
"I started my love for Notre Dame back in the days of the Four Horsemen and Knute Rockne. I was in the Sacred Heart Orphanage here for several years and they used to send us old foot­balls and such from Notre Dame. As a boy of 11 or 12 I can remember having the honor to write and thank a BROTHER HILf\RION for sending us the equipment. I saw one Notre Dame game and It was against U.S.C. In 1939. I hope to go 
again someday so I can visit the campus and see 

• 'cver^'thing that I missed. I heard all ten Notre Dame games on the radio (one on TV) this year and have followed tliem for years. 
"Pueblo Catholic High here in Pueblo has a Notre Dame man come here every Januar>- for their athletic banquet. We have had Brcnnan. Gugliclml, Hornung, Lewis, and Williams as guest speakers. 
**I am going to take the liberty of sending a check to Notre Dame for the Class of '36 if it's 
O.K. I am a bachelor yet, and live with a brother and sister. 
"A Mcrr\' Christmas to you and your family." John J. Shcelian, Jr. 1001 Pine Street 

^ 1 Pueblo, Colorado 
To you, John, in the name of the Class of *36. thanks. I'm sure your inspiration will help all of us. Your check has been forwarded to the Alumni .Association And I'm sure all the class will join me in welcoming you as an honorary* member. 
And now, '36crs, let's hear "from you. It has been fun to put a column this long together. 
From the Alumni OfFice: 
FRANKIE GAUL, who will always be remem­bered for his part in THE Ohio State game, has developed cmpliysema and has been forced to cur­tail his activity. 
103 7 Joseph P. Quinn 
P. O. Bo.K 275, Lake Lenape Andovcr, N. J. 
Mighty slim news with the Christmas rush and all you busy fathers. 
"FEN" FRONING writes from the Duponis of Wilmington that the place is overrun with N.D. chemists (let's hear from the others) and that his oldest, Michael, will be a freshman next year. 
JACK GILLESPIE, the public relations man for Socony Mobil, has been placed in charge of their public relations In 16 states in the midwest and the live refineries that they operate there. Jack is 

^piway, like a lot of the boys todav, covering this 
^"Bi g Ten" area. Jack meets TOM PENDERG.VST at the meeting of a mutual society—the Public Re­lations Society — and a clipping from the Chicago 
THOMAS M. PENDERGAST, '37 Finger on the Future 
Continuing to feel the pulse of youthful enterprise and, consequently, America's economic future is Chicago's Thomas "Pen­ny" Pendergast. Formerly executive direc­tor of Junior Achievement of Chicago, he has been named executive vice-president, a newly created title. 
Tom joined J. A. of Chicago in 1946 as 
public relations director. He was made 
executive director in 1947. 
Following an A.B. degree (magna cum laude), at Notre Dame and an M.A. in economics at Loyola U., Tom began his professional career as a member of Loyola's facultj' in the department of economics and senior case worker for Chicago's Juvenile Detention Home. In 1941 he accepted a position as executive assistant to the late Msgr. Edward J. Flanagan at Boy's Town, Neb., where he remained until ht joined Junior Achievement of Chicago. 
Under Tom's direction, J..^. of Chicago has grown to become the largest Junior -Achievement area in the nation. Currently 350 J..-\. companies are in operation at four­teen official business centers located in communities within 60 miles of the Loop. J.-A. of Chicago has introduced several in­novations to the national program, includ­ing the annual Future Unlimited Banquet in May, the largest youth event of its kind in the U. S. 

Tom's many professional affiliations in­clude membership in the Public Relations Society of .America and the Economics Club of Chicago. With his wife, the former Vir­ginia Corcoran, and three children, he lives at 530 Laurel .Ave., Wilmette, 111. 
Tribune stious that Tom has been elected Executive Vice-President of Junior Achievement of Chicago. Tom lias been associated with J. A. since 1946. 
Our records show tliat TOM CiVSSIDY has clianged from Wisconsin State College at White­water, Wis., back east to Kings Park, Long Island. 
For the New York lads, our predecessor, FAUI. 

**SCOOP* FOLEY now hangs his hat on gray-
flannel row at 483 Lexington Ave. KARL HUTTER. 
has moved from Wausau, Wis. (the Wausau Story) 
to Thorp, Wis. 
With regret we report that CHARLIE COV 

passed away leaving the missus and three children. 
Remember him in your prayers. 
The next printing is due in March so please-

keep the news coming. 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
J. M. POWERS was recently granted a U. S. patent for a process for recovery of high purity-hydrocarbons, dealing with a petrochemical raw material, durcnc. It is based on his research for Humble Oil's research and development divisioa in Bayto\«*n, Texas. Regularly a section head, he-is serving in a special executive development as­signment in Houston but retains his residence in Baytow-n with his wife and three children. 
DR. CHARLES HUFN.AGEL, professor of cardio­vascular surgery at Georgetown, famed for his de­velopment of_ the "Hufnagel valve** of plastic to-replace diseased heart \-alves, has been named a. fellow of the Xetv York Academy of Sciences. The­lionor is conferred on a limited number who has-e­done outstanding work toward the ad\-anccmcnt of science. 
EDWARD L. BOYLE, an FBI veteran, recently took over the .-Arizona division, replacing JOSEPH" 
P. McMAHON, '38, being transferred to Los i\n­
gclcs, a friend and fellow football Monogrammer. Former New York City Court Judge ^VILLIA^^ 
S. SHEA has been installed as president of the East Side Republican Club. 
JIM BACON, still in Hollyivood covering tht stars for Associated Press, ran into one FRANCIS 
W. LEAHY, *3I, at a recent celeb golf tournament. 
Burnett C. Bauer 

1938 
1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Indiana 
One of the happiest Christmas messages received' 

by the class of 1938, and saddest for Notre Dame's-, 
future opponents, was the announcement of JOE­
KUH.ARICH*s appointment as head football coach. 
Joe, who once reported sighting a periscope stick­
ing out of Badin Bog (which now has been filled! 
in with a new bookstore for those who haven't 
been back lately) will now have the cpportunity 
of detecting Nav\*'s maneuvers on the gridiron. 
Joe will have the ad\*antage of well organized ad­
vice of some 30 classmates living in South Bend* 
who meet several times a year for. dinners, picnics,, 
etc, just to take care of such counselling services-
This group includes former teammates at N.D.r 
CHUCK SWEENEY — who incidentally is open­
ing the Blue and Gold Motel with LOUIS "PADU­
CAH" ANDERSON in Roseland next month, (I^ 
couldnH find out who is proWdiny the gold); JOHN" 
MURPHY, JIM LAHEY, CHARLEY BOROWSKC 
with whom he roomed in Badin*s 4th floor, and 
who, incidentally, drove Joe to and from Chicago-
airport on his first press interview at N.D. Dec. 23? 
and yours truly, SWEDE BAUER, in whose next: 
door room he spent most evenings slapping my 
roomy, JOE ^VEHRLE's wrist, and vice-versa in 
some intellectual game called Scissors, Rocks and" 
Paper. With such background and backing, how 
can he miss? Good Luck, Joe! By the way Joe-
made a very good impression at his first press in­ter\-iew as head coach at Notre Dame. Joc^ CHARLEY BOROWSKI and CHxVRLIE CALLA­HAN had their pictures taken together for the-South Bend Tribune. 
FL.ASH No. 2!! Thru our leased wire sen.ice­with the Alumni oflice here are the finals on the-class officer election. Congratulations to CHUCK SWXENEY, the" newly-elected President, and to-HAL WILLIAMS, the new Vice-President, also to BILL RILEY, the new Treasurer, who ran un­opposed — after all Bill is President of the Indiana Bankers .Association. CH.ARLEY DUKE, whose Christmas card came from 4310 Perlita, New Or­leans, and TOM ELDER, 405 Chestnut, Waynes­boro, Va., the losing nominees for President and' Vice-President, oddly enough made a stronger showing in the north than in the south — wonder if they have been making statements about Little-Rock or civil rights? Maybe they deserve consid­eration for the Laetare medal. Look into it^ Sweeney. Praise and thanks are due to JOHN C. OXONNOR, our retiring (which is hard to ima­gine) President, for the great job he did the past 20 years. The C. in John's name stands, he once said, for the Class of *38, and that it truly does! 
E\*idencc that the men of '38 arc becoming cn-

Notre Dame Alumnus^ Marchy 2939 49 
trenrlied citizens (I u"as goiiii; to say "solid" cili­zctiii until I looked into the niirmr) o[ ihcir com­niunitit.-!* is that feuer arc nioWng around, and 

•vvlipn
 they do it's generally ju.it across the tracks. Four address changes came into your class secre­iar>''s luxurioiLS office — done, by liu- way. in a Sorin-Sub niolif for proper atmosphere in which to read yi»ur many (I'm thinking positive) letters. The postman as yet refuses to stand on the front porch and sail the mail to mc in **POP" FARLEV fashion but has agreed to slide it under the door. All four changeB were inira-ciiy. i.e., from gold coast to uranium coast. PHIL HOENE, X.D. Foun­dation citv chairman, moved out apiece to 22.31 


E.
 2nd St.. Duhith, .Minnesota. RAY RITCHIE moved in apiece to be nearer his utanium bank. I mean, drug store, in Gallen. Ohio—502 X. Colum­bus St. JERRY CLIFFORD moved just next door to 3719 W'oodvallcy Dr.. Houston 25. Te.\as. and wants you all to write to cheer him all up as he's having trouble shaking ihc shock of having to live in the second largest state now. D.-WE CONNOR, bfnchmate on Jake Kline's baseball squad, mnvi-d into a new home recently at I&47 Hums Road, Lakew(KKl 7. Ohio, with his tvife. .-\iny and three children: Thercse. II; Paula, 9. and Davey. 5. Dave was an accountant for a life insurance com­pany in Indianapolis until drafted in 1941. .After hasic-ing at Ft. \\"arren he landed with the lir^I American tn»ops in New Zealand. Later during a stopover (only 28 months) in ilie Fiji I>]ands Dave became an oflicer and met a beautiful army nurse 


^vhom he married at Ft. Meade. Marjiand in Sep­tember. 1945. when he was returned to the States 
a> a courier. Dave liked this courier busi­ness so much he got into the motor freight iranspoit busine-.". and after swilcliing between In­dianapolis and Evansville several times he was made General Ft eight Agent of the .Acme Fast Freight company in Cleveland two years ago. There's no doubt Dave's got it made. He could always handle that fast freiglit pilch; it was that .\'o. 2 pitch that kept him (»ut of the majors! Keep swinging, Dave! 
The Indianapolis lads (e.\ and current) rale n»ps in ci»mmunicJliims this issue. On Indiana Uell Tele­phone letterhead Jl.M CXRSON thanked CHARLIE C\LL.AH.\N for helping them gel an autographed f<H»tball to give away at Indianapolis Scecina High School fall festival and then PS-ed: ""St. Andrew's grade school won the city CYO football champion­ship. In the middle of the line were .\NDY Cr\R­SON, Jl.M LILL and BOB SAUTER. Interested fathers watching (but not quiellv, I'll bet) were JOE LILL, GEORGE SAUTER and Jl.M aVR-SON. .ANDY CXRSON was captain. Good news for KUHARICH and -N.D. in 'G5, eh? But I recol­lect papa Carson as a First Baseman and a splin­ter coIlecIi)r on George Keogan's bench. 
Christmas card from JERRY K.ANE and famtly \-acatitining at Sun Valley. Jerr>% who sells jet planes for Boeing out of Seattle, writes that "I had planned to be (at last year's reunion but had to go to Buenos .Aires where I spent all Jime." (Don't envy Jerr>-. In B..A. it's Januar>* in June.) Jerr\-'s son Christopher is in his first year at the Seattle di<)cesan seminar\-. J<-*rr>* was a fellow ri»)niniate along with IGO others of us and Brother Justin in the late Itrownson Hall, under the Dome, now converted to administrative offices. He later roomed wiib JOH.XNY .MOIR on Badin's 4tli floor and TOM BOHEN in Sorin-Sub sandwiched in with a year of quiet in Morrissey Sub. With such a back­ground Jerr>''s success xs a salesman and father is not une.\pected. 

N.D. Ci>nmiimion Breakfast Dec. 7 in Sacred Heart Church's cr\-pt and Na\-\- Drill Hall was at­tended bv DON FISHER and son: CHARLEY BOROUSKI and family; BILL GIBBONS and re­cent bride. Margaret: and DON HICKEY who said he saw Dr. DENNIS E.M.M.ANUEL at the Iowa game watching, thru a monocle, the Hawkeye's sui-Svrv of US­
JOHN .MURPHY who pushed CHUCK SWEE­NEY hard enough at End to make hini an .AU­.r\nierican. retired from high school coaching last month after compiling an outstanding record with South Bend's John .Adams High Sclii>t>l. John raised the school fiont the cellar to championship status in his eight years there. His recitrd was -Ifi wins. 25 losses (mostly in first few yejrs) and 3 ties. John's sitn Dennis, played End on Ins squad and for second straight year was recently selected on the all-cily team. John gave health as his lea-Min fc»r retiring — couldn't get used to that rare­fied air that he found himself in as top local coach the past several years. John will bead the Pby. Ed. department of John .Adams High SCIHMII. 
CHARLIE CALUAHAN sent me a note from TO,\l QUINLAN announcing the arrival of his 5th child, a girl, on xXugust 25. Tcmi runs a sum­mer resort. ''The Loomarwick," at New- Preston, Conn., with '"Special rates for Thirty-eights" — A possible site for our 21st reunion next summerly. Tom. who is special correspondent in charge oi all Toms, said that TO.M HARDART, 65 Dart-\ mouth St., Forest Hills, Long Island. N.Y., had a ; daughter in June, and that TO.M GR.AVES has moved from Washington. D.C., to Greenwich. Conn., and is working for an accoimting firm in New York city. 

.And while we are beating the tom-toms. I'll mention that my wife Helene and I stayed <tver­night at the TO.M BOHEN*s while attending a convention of the Lindsay Soft Water Ci>nipany in St. Paul the last week in October. Tom who has sold out his retail fur store and is now leaching at St. Thomas college in St. Paul, had *>\\T JOHN CLIFFORD and his wife, the ft>rnHT Gertrndi%^ Hein of St. Mar>-'s, for the evening. Tom ant?''' wife Carmela were active in new Senator Gene McCarthy's campaign. 
Heard John Carniichael interview R.AY .MEYERS on his De Paul cage team this year. Ray saiil they were a year away from a t€>p team — so watch him clobber somebody unexpectedly. Ray was seri­<msly ill in a Chicago hospital earlier this fall, but from his cagey remarks he's fully recovered. 
JACK SCOTT, after a term as South Bend\ mayor, moved to Elkhart as Vice-President of the Elkhart Truth and has his own TV program. "Jack Scott Reports." Jack majored in jtiurnalism and t«M>k part in the .Marine summer PlatiHin Leader courses. .After distinguishing himself dur­ing the war. he came home a Lt. Colonel aii(£7; still beads the local Marine reserves. 
.After sitting in several CFM meetings with DON NARDUCCI (class of '50) and wife .Marge I learned she is the sister of JOE RUETZ who. along with another S<)phoniore guard. JOE KUH.ARICH, spent most of one fall afteriKHin in the Ohio State hackfield in THE game. Joe, now in goml health after being ill awhile. lives near Los .Angeles (1005 Darby Rd.. San Marino, Calif.) with wife Grimy: Joey. 5, and StLsan. 7. .A former line coach at Stanford under Chuck Taylor, Joe is out of foot­ball now and is full time director of the California 
U. Foundation Fund in the L..A. aiea. (Note T<t Editor: Don't show this to Father Cavanaugh.) Joe is just a dissertation awav from his doctorate-_ 
OREGON — At the annual Holiday Dance at Portland's Wavcrly Country Club January 2 (from left) Club President Charles Slatt serves 
punch for Mrs. Slatt, Mr. and Sirs. Tom Magce, Mr. and Mrs. Floyd Sinmions. Dinner parties preceded the dance for many. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

in AiilIiropolog\', so maybe sumc of us old fossils ought to look him up to help him out when wcVc out that way. O.K., JOHN FOGEL, JOHN 
•:ERBST, GUS ZELL, GENE VASLETT? 
ED BRENNAN of Paw Paw, Michigan, left his card and offered to buy lunch the next time he conies through IOHH, and I've been holding ofT going to hmch until late ever since. Card from OTTO SCHERER, Chizek's ace accounting correc­tor, conies from a new address in New Jersey — 79 Pine St., Closter, N.J. — and lists a third child for the first lime, .\nother card containing nothing more enlightening than that it was Merry Christ­mas time in PUNXSLTTAWNEV, Pa., canic from old Badin 4lh floor roommate JOE WEHRLE, who still hasn't forgiven me for throwing a big lini­bergcr cheese he received (I learned later, from home) over the transom into CH.\RLEY BOROW­
^>KI's and JOE KUHARfCH's room next door, ^'thinking it was they who had planted it in my trunk. 
A fine exonerating letter from ED H.AGG.\R, part of which said: *'I really felt very bad about not being able to attend our 20-year reunion, but as hick would have it, this was the first time the .•Mumni Board (Ed is Vice-President) didn't have their meeting immediately prior to the class re­union. 
"I had intended to be up for the meeting and then stay over the following week for the fun and reminiscing with tlie boys of '38. However I had to be in Dallas on one of the above week endi. and since this is my last year on the Board, and 
^^jeing chairman of three committees requiring writ­
wien reports I felt it would be a bad reflection <»:i the class of '38 if I neglected my duty. . . This was just merely a case of mixed emotions. . . such as you feci when *ou see your mother-in-law going over a cliff in your new car, God willing. I look fon^'ard to being with all of our goiKl friends from the Class of '38 in 1963." Thanks fur writing Ed, I'm putting my Haggar slacks bac!: on; — and thanks for making those extra special large sizes — "Texas size," I believe your label reads. 
PHIL SHIELDS (I9I0 Grand .\vc., Kalamazw.} attended the funeral of my wife's mother, Mrs. Elizabeth Cryan, in Kalama/oo in November. Pliil and the late JACK SI.MON, whose son John is in 
^^h e second year seminary at Wawasee near Warsaw, ^Tlndiana, and my wife were classmates in grade school. 
Thru Betty Callahan, Charlie's wife, I hear that BILL COSTELLO, whom the class of '39 has been trying to enlist in their ranks, which ranks as the rankest foul play but docs show their good judg­ment, suffered a coronaiy in November and while resting at his home at 9001 Claremont, Beverly. Chicago, III., will read all letters received. .VUo HUB KIRCH.MAN's wife, Ellse, has been bedrid­den since fall in their home at 512 N. McLellan. Bay City, Michigan. 
GEORGE SMITH of Indianapolis stopped in on Charlie Callahan. George sells Dirilyte dinnerware ^aiid looks like he's been eating from it. Outside 
9;he Coliseum in L..\., Callahan ran into TO.MMY SHI ELS whose Modernaires aided and abetted many a budding romance at our class dances. SCOTT RE^VRDON's daughter .\nn came all the way from Sioux Falls, So. Dakota, to attend St. Marv's .Vcademv this year, as does Marv Patricia, the daughter of FRANCIS X. "TI.M" BRADLEY, now administrator of Lt>bund at N. D. 
Finally, I want lo tiiank you men for backing me in that clo-e campaign I had for Chiss Secre­tary-, and also to let everynne know that I hold no grudges against my great oppmient—my wife. 
Your chairman of the committee to increase class officers' salaries, — S\\EDE BAUER. 
^ JOE BARRINGTON, '26, editor of the sales publication for Johns-Manvilie Corp.. sent aloni! some biographical dope on FRA.NCIS HART MAY, JR., recently made vice-president and general man­ager of the newly organized Llbby-Oweiis-Ford sub­sidiary of Johns-Manville, actpiired in 19J{1. Frank has had various executive positions in the glass fiber business since joining Owens-Illinois GIxss Co. in 1940 and is also director and president of the Xlbradamp Corp. of Toledo. O. He is a Notre Dame Foundation chairman in Toledo and director of Junior .•\chievenient. Inc., of Northwestern. Olno^ 
From the .Mumni Office: New York's head G-man, HARVEY GOODSON ^fOSTER, got another big profile, this time in the 
Vibunc, pliigsing him as a tcamic of Ruetz and Kuliaricli, former guard and assistant freshman coach. Countered llar\'ey: "I was not AII-Amcrican by any stretch of the imagination." 
THOMAS G. GILLESPIE, JR., '39 New V-P at SD 

Thomas Gillespie, chemist, attorney and engineer, has been appointed a vice-presi­dent of Scientific Design Company, one of the foremost companies in the United States in the development, design and construction of organic and petro-chcmical plants throughout the world. 
Tom took his bachelor's degree in chem­ical engineering at Notre Dame and stayed on campus for a master's in organic chem­istry in 1940. Immediately after this he en­tered the X. D. Law School, picking up a year's credits before his transfer to night classes at Indiana Law School in Indianapo­lis, necessitated by employment as a re­search chemist with Reilly Tar & Chemical Co. 
Following graduation and admission to the Indiana Bar in 1943, Tom entered the Navy as an ensign. During \Vorld \Var II he ser\ed as an officer on destroyers in At­lantic and Pacific Fleets, sur\iving the sink­ing of the USS Glennon (DD-620) at Nor­mandy. 
Mustering out in 1946, he joined the Sharp & Dohine patent department as a patent lawyer. In 1951 he moved to Pitts­burgh, Pa., to ser\*e as assistant manager of the patent department of Koppers Com­pany, Inc. (and secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh). He joined SD in 1955, moving to the New York office as patent counsel. .-\s vice-president in charge of legal and contract matters he will be re­sponsible for general and patent law, as well as other development activities. Tom has been admitted to practice before the U. S. Patent Office, the Court of Customs and Patent .\ppeals and the U. S. Supreme Court. He's a member of the .American Bar .Association and the .American and New-York Patent Law .-Vssns. 
In 1948 Tom married Grace Frances Reynolds of Scituate, Mass. They have two adopted children, Michael (N. D., '76) and Meg, a St. Mary's prospect. 
Speaking of football and the FBI, JOE .Mc.M.A­HON is now sleuthing in Los Angeles. DR. DAN MO.\AGHi\X, in Europe as a major in the .-Vrmy Medical Corps and a member of the 
X. D. Club of Rome, is try*ing to persuade Charlie Callahan to join him via the projected X. D. Pil­grimage to Rome, Lourdes, Ireland, etc. 
jn 
JUNE I2-I3-I4 
.VJH\OH 
I ^ 

193 9 J^™^ ^* Motschall Singer-Motschall Corp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
From the Alumni Office: 
JIM MOTSCHALL and CHUCK REDDY have 
had their heads together in South Bend, cooking 
up plans for a gala reunion. Details uill be forth­
coming in the mail. 
Meanwhile the other natives have been restless. 
Pre-reunicn gct-togcthen; around the nation in­
cluded one in December in the nation's capita!, at 
the Chew Chase home of Mr. and Mrs, PAUL C. 
TULLY. Among Paul's guests were BERNIE FEE­
NEY, Mr. and .\fr5. VAL DE.\LE, ^r^. and Mrs. 
PHIL MALONEY, and Mr. and .Mrs. WALTER 
SHORT. The gents got a lot of kicks out of 
thimibing through the '39 DOAIE. (Why not try-
that routine yourself?) For the ladies' reaction sec 
the picture in this issue. 
.\nother who hopes to board the bandwagon in June is WALT GEREND, the hard-working secre­tary of the Notre Dame Club of Dayton, Ohio. Walt had healed a broken right arm by Christmas, but the left flipper may have snapped by this writ­ing if S. Claus brought a pair of skis as ntmorcd. Splints or not, you'll sec him on campus June 12 if he can tear himself away from the six livin* dolls in his household, wife Louise and daughters Kathy, Jean, Patty, Carol and Betty ("Baby Peaches"'). 
For news about another distinguished *39er sec the "Spotlight Alumnus" feature on the rise of TOM GILLESPIE to \^ce-President of New York's Scientific Design Company, Inc. 
1 94 0 J^"^^^ ^- Bro%\*n 
625 Atadison Ave. New York, New York 

Undergraduates at Marquette University are flock­ing into non-credit adult education courses ofTcred to full-time students at a special rate. The courses are administered by DR. JAMES A. BYRNE, direc­tor of Adult Education at Marquette, who says the students are particularly interested in courses on college study skills and better reading. Jim also an­nounced that three students of his writers' work­shop won awards from Writer's Digest. From the Alumni Office: 
JAMES F. DOYLE got a nice plug as a "Pau­.-\jnerican Personality" in the G.M.R.D. Clipper, publication of Pan-Am's Guided Missiles Range Di­vision at Patrick Air Force Base, Florida, where Jim has completed four years as the division's account­ant and twelve years of balancing the books for the airline. Jim was lauded as founder of the division's 3,300-member One Donation Club and treasurer of the Pan-Am Management Club. 
JOSEPH P. CUM.MINGS, a partner in the Man­hattan firm of Peat, Mar^vlck, Mitchell & Co., has been named to a second term as chairman of the Accountants Committee for the 1958 campaign of the United Hospital fund of New York, which aids 81 non-profit hospitals in New York City. Joe lives, at 255 Barnard Road, Larchmont. 
WILLIAM FAY has signed on as publicity direc­tor for the Metropolitan Fair and Exposition Au­thority of Chicago. Bill, well known as a news­man, publicist and magazine writer, will plug a huge projected exposition center Including a 5,000­seat auditorium. He still resides in suburban Park Ridge with the missus and five little Fays. 
S.\.MUEL L. DEVIXE, former Franklin County. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 51 
Ohio, state legislator and prosecutor, upheld local 
tradition but bucked a national trend to represent 
the state's Twelfth District in the U. S. Congress 
as a Republican. 
\nLLrAM G. O'HARE, JR., has been named acting director of the Bureau of Government Re­search at llic University of Massactiusctts, .-Vmhcrst. Bill also handles two adi'anccd courses in govern­ment. With wife Edna and sons Billy and Greg he resides at 472 Xorth Pleasant Street, Amherst, Mass., after living in Iowa and Texas since the end of the war. 
JOHX G. ELSE, design engineer in General Mo­
tors* Chevrolet motor di\'ision, is an inventor in 
patent No. 2,819,025 for a valve means in engines. 
PATRICK BRE.VNAX, elected to a third term as St. Joseph County prosecutor last November, has been making headlines with the old Brcnnan pyrotechnics, in and out of court. 
James F. Spcllman 
1941 
7 East 42nd St New York 17, N. Y. 
TOM REIS, of Arlington Heights, Chicago, came into my office on September 17. Tom is a sales representative for advertising for Reader's Digest. He makes frequent trips to New York. If you ex­amine the masthead of the famous magazine, you will sec Tom's name included therein. Tom is married to a former Nav\- nurse, and tliey have four children. He recalls that he and MIKE LAM­BERT were shipmates on the D. E. Whitman for two years in the Pacific TRUCK SCHIRF was on a sister ship. Tom also reports that JACK BOYLE is a salesman for Gordon's Foods in Memphis. 
From VERN WTTKOWSKI (June 14, 1958): 
A new daughter, Kathcrinc Mar\', born May 23. That makes it three boys and four girls for Vernon and Carol. (Verj* best uishes to you botli.) 
Vern is in the men's clothing business and has three neighborhood stores under the name "Witkow­ski Clothes for Men." But overshadowing tlib ac­complishment is the little known fact that the class of *41 has an actor. Yessir, Vern has been doing a bit in a Western on Sunday's T\^; uses the name Clay Grant, and had been on 36 weeks up to tlic date of his most welcome letter. 
Vcrti reports that JOHN COPPINGER dropped in to see him. John heads tlie sales training pro-Sram for Hotpoint in Chicago. Got any samples, John? Well then, how about a letter? 
BILL MORREY paid me a most pleasant visit in October. Bill, an advertising representative, is with 
C. D. Bertolct 5: Co., Inc., Chicago. Thc>' service *'Our Sunday Visitor" and **Tlic Register." He came at an opportune time, as our KickofT meet­ing w*as held the same evening; so Bill went along with me and had a good time meeting other class­mates. Believe it or not, that beautiful shock of hair that Bill sported in his college days ain't no more. Your scribe has more strands on top! Hope to sec Bill soon again, and get some news out of him. 
Met LOU MacKENZIE and TOM DELIA on the Notre Dame Special train to the Navy Game at Baltimore. Tom didn't Iiavc his guitar along so the trip was peaceful! By the way, our team performed In tlie manner most pleasing to us down easterners. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: 
JOHN SPECrV was appointed last September as 
Acting Dean of the University of Kansas City Law 
School. 
1 942 William M. Hickcy 
• '^ ^ 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 
We have the following letter from ANGELO AMATO who lives at 8 Kcnilworth Drive, Crcsskill, New Jcrscj': **Tliis is tlie first note I've ever writ­ten to tlie Class Secretary since I've been out. . . alwa>-s enjoy reading Class news but not sending It. BILL TOBIN of our class is Godfather of one of my daughters and he risits with us quite often. He Is an International Auditor with Socony in New York and still a bacliclor. TONY MALONEY of the '43 Class is Godfather of my other daughter and is slightly hearicr tlian when he was on tlie track team. He's a supervisor with the FBI In Ne\%' York. Both BUI and Tony went do\v*n to the Na\Y game with me where we saw DAN CULLI­NANE who looks fine and is doing well %rith Pfizer Chemical. Danny has been In the Middle West for a while but was recently transferred back to this area. He's living in Oradell, just a stone's throw from here. During the fall, had occasion to take in a Touclidown Club of New York luncheon and 
had FRANK CONFORTI of M3 at our table. He's in good shape and is with a branch of C.I.T. In New York. Last week went to the Helsman Trophy Dinner and saw JOHN KELLY and JIM Mc-GOLDRICK, the football captains in 1938 and 1939 respectively, together with JOE DcFR.-\XCO who played guard In tliose years. Each of these men has clianged vcrj* little from the days when they were on campus. Jim McG. Is an attorney In New York, and Kelly and DeFranco arc In the related legal Investigative field. Also at the dinner was ANGE BERTELLI, '44, who lives in Clifton, N. J., and is in the package liquor business there. Have occasion to talk to him occasionally, and he Is quite active helping the school's coacliing staff screening prospective athletes. He's quite proud of his boy, Joe Scibelli and equally so of Nick Bueniconti who will probably play a lot of football In 1959. (HUGHIE DEVORE considers him to be probably the outstanding freshman lineman this year.) At the Heisman dinner also was JIM WHITE, '44, and JOHXN-Y LUJACK, '48. who came Into New York for the Giant-Brown telecast. BertclH was with them until the wee hours and both were still go­ing strong long after Bert had left. Have had occasion to meet and talk witli former Assistant Coach BILL ^VALSH of the '49 Class on school business at \'arious times — a real credit to the 

Friends and classmates thronged to the Bishop Paul Hallinan Testimonial Reception and Dinner in Cleveland. The head table included (I. to r.): Msgr. Edward Seward, '34, chancellor of the Diocese of Cleveland; James K. Collins, '32, toastmastcr; Rev. John H. Wilson, C.S.C., '32, N.D. administrative assistant to the president; Most Rev. Paul J, Hallinan, '32, Bishop of Charleston, S. C, and Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., '32, N.D. vice president for business affmrs. 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 

School. At the Nav-y game, saw JOE ABBOTT, '31. He u-as there with a big lad who looked like a fine lineman prospect. Turned out to be his soi^.G who is an intern at Philadelphia General HospitaV)] Met HARRY WRIGHT, '43, who Is really laying the groundwork to better the athletic fortunes of the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point. L. L PETER LUSSARDI. '49, lives in Somerville. N. J., and is one of our most active alumni In this area. During the early part of the year he had BERNIE CRIMMINS of our class down to speak at a function which was very well attended. My best regards to JOE PROKOP and VIC GULYASSY. those two hot-shot dice players. That's it. Bill. As for myself, I've been with the International Di\-islon of Ford Motor In finance WOTV for the pa^t seven years. Before that was a CPA In public accounting In New York with firms there." j^ ) 
Abo received the following from MAURIC&' KELLY who is w*ith .-Miiminum Co. of America in Pittsburgh. "While in South Bend for the Army game, I ran Into the familiar faces of GEORGE BL^VTT, his wife Jane, LEO BURBY, and his wife, Betty. George is becoming a prosperous insurance man in Cleveland. He, Leo, and their wives made the trip together. I also saw JIM McNULTY who told me that he had just purchased a new and bigger house in Chicago as a domicile for his many youngsters. I ran into JOE RYAN, Class of '39, who now has 13 children and is living in Buffalo, 
N.Y. Abo saw L.\RRY KELLEY, JACK McVU-LIFFE. DAVE CARTAVRIGHT, JIM PURCELL and AL BRcVUN. While in Buffalo last summer ^\ heard that JOE WATSON Is thriving in the law*' as Is JOHN EGAN. I talked with BILL FALLON on the phone while in New York recently. He Is still a naval officer. A mutual friend here In Pitts­burgh informs me that BILL CLEMENS and LOU MAJARU S are In the baking business in Dubuque. Iowa. Lou is still a'bachelor. I ran into EMMET GRIFFIN who Is now in the electronic data pro­cessing business here In Pittsburgh." 
GEORGE RUDOLPH, who lives at Route 2, Box 862, Lakeland, Florida, writes—"Since I've been a transplant from my Pittsburgh and Yankee cn­\ironment of college days, I've tremendously en­joyed your pitcli on the rambllngs and successes of fellows like PAUL TAFFEL, AVALTY Mc-COURT, ED DUNLE\^, EMMETT WRIGHTfli BOB SNOW. Where is CHARLIE K.USER? (Ed. ^ Note: Last address for Charlie is R. D. 3, Halscy Street. Eau Claire, Wis.) We came to Florida to retire after World War 11, but found out that a lifetime of bills and obligations puts a guy to work. Tell the fellows A\here I am. Then I know I'll have some news from you. It was grand to see you and LEO BURBY, TOM WALKER and the others at Ft. Lauderdale last spring. Leo and I started out in grade school together. Tliat was our first meeting in 15 years. Tom Walker came to Lakeland shortly after our get-together on a busi­ness trip. Wc had several moments together before he had to leave. I'll try to do better next time. Best to you and yours In the holiday season an ^ the year to come." W^t 
Mso have a note from BILL MORROW that he 

has left Re>'noIds Metal and is now General Sales 
Manager for Pioneer Aluminum of Los Angeles. 
He asks our class members to contact him at 
Pioneer because he has not settled in a home as yet. 
Wc have a note from JOHN SCHERER who is with Wcstinghouse Electric Corporation, Advanced S>-stems Planning in Drcxcl Hill, Pa. He writes that he moved from Kansas City to Philadelphia this summer and Is now residing at 42 Wyncroft Drive, Media, Pa. He Is just getting caught up with his new home and has just joined the Phila­delphia Club. Would like to hear from anyone iiL that area. W< 
;\lso have a note from TOM DEGNr\N who lives at 701 West 22nd St., Wilmington 2, Delaware. He reports that WALTER A. CORDES has just moved from Wilmington to Houston, Texas, where he Is assistant manager of DuPont's Gresselli Chem­ical Dcpt. BOB BEAUMON'T Is sull in Cleveland. Wien Tom sa.v him in January he was office man­ager of one of the country's largest metal washer companies. Tom is a consultant in engineering materials for DuPont at the Central Engineering building. 
LARRY KELLEY and TOM ^VALKER were In Chicago for Duke-N. D. game. Both were looking fine and Walker enjoying the Florida climate greatly. . . . ^> 
Three participants in the annual Pro-AmateiK»' Golf Tournament at The Homestead, Hot Springs, i Virginia, were BOB COLE.MAN. BOB CHEVLIN and BILL HICKEY. Sorry to report that none of I tlicm did any good in llic Pro-iVm, but Bob Cole­man won his flight in the week-long amateur tour­nament which followed. He is a vcr>- good golfer 
^ 1 don't play him even. Wc have a nice letter from VIXCE SHIELY who writes as follows: "Have been with Toro Manufacturing since 1947. Our company produces a wide \*ariety of grass cut­ting equipment that includes home owner type power mowers and large institutional equipment for parks and golf courses. I am proud to say that the Xotrc Dame Golf Course owns one of our tractors. "^^a^y and I have five diildrcn, four girls and a boy and their ages are from three to ten years. AVc live at 142 North Mississippi River BouIe\-ard in St. Paul, so you can sec wc arc real Twin Citians in the full sense of the word. ^ "Tlicrc arc two members of our class located ^er e in the Twin Cities that you might like to know about. LARRY AUBREY, a transplanted native of Louisville, is Treasurer at Powers, one of the Twin Cities' leading department stores. They now operate two large stores and are in the process of constructing a third. As a result, Larry is quite busy. Larr>' and his wife, Marie, have become quite fond of Minneapolis. 
"DAVE DEVENS is Controller at Economics Laborator\- who produce, among other things, that wonderful product, Spic & Span, with which, I am sure, our wives have more than a passing ac­quaintance. 
"I keep in touch with CHARLIE CONGER who till resides in Poughkecpsic, New York and enjo>"s 

• ingle blessedness. Last year I stopped at Spring­field, Ohio, to visit D/VN SHOm^I N and his brother, Roger, at Tlie Bauer Company. BERNIE CRIMMINS was here in Minneapolis this simimer and wc had lunch together. 
I missed the last reunion for the reason that I was at N.D. a couple of weeks before at a meet­ing and was unable to get back again so soon. On the occasion of mv visit there, I spent an evening witli JOHN MALONE and ED BUENGER. Ed and I were stationed in Germany together and be­came very close friends. 
I received a letter from BILL BAADER of Ben-5on\iIIe, Illinois, in which he said the following: "Doesn't Seem to be much N. D. actirity out 
^,er c in Bcnsonville. Been out here for a year and a half, and being a country' boy at heart, m>-self, wife and four children enjoy it very much. About the only gent I see regularly is BYRON KANALY; wc both work in the LaSalle-Wackcr Building. Have worked on a few projects together." 
From the Alumni Office: It came by Pony Express, but perhaps youM still be interested in a Phoenix, Ariz., Republic news stor>' quoting a eulogy for the late Pope Pius XH — by Rabbi ALBERT PLOTKIN of Temple Beth Israel, Phoenix, who spoke of being honored as a freshman by the \-isit to campus of Cardinal Pacelli: "I was deeply impressed by the spiritual ^|aint!incss and humility with 'which he addressed VKhe students. I, as a rabbi, feci that his death is a great loss, . . to all men of faith who bclie%*e in peace and pursue it with all their hearts. 
"Wc will all have a great moment of inspiration when we reflect on the heroic life of the late pontifT who gave so willingly to the welfare of all man­kind. I join with my Catholic brethren and know that tlirough sucli men our generation will be blessed. . ." 
PAUL NEVILLE, who went from the South Bend Tribune to the BufTalo Evening News in 1957 as assistant to the managing editor, has now been ap­pointed managing editor. Paul is a member of the 

^.American Society of Newspaper Editors and a for­^^ler director of the /Associated Press Managing Edi­tors Assn. 
194 3 J<^^" L- Wiggins 
4800 Fairla^vn Dr. LaCanada, Calif. 
JOHN HUNT, now an editor of Look maga­zine, sends word of a reunion with BUD FITZ­PATRICK, now Father Bedc of the Order of Friars Minor. Father Fitz, you will recall, said one of the Class Masses at the Reunion. He is now stationed in Japan as a missionary. 

For the first time since the '30s the Washington ^D . C.} Notre Dame Club re-elected dub officers ^o r a second term, naturally because they are '43 men: JACK McGRATH, president; BILL MID­DENDORF, vice-president, and PAUL FISHER, treasurer. (Ed. note: Hold on there, Jack. Mid-
Father Vincent J. McCaulcy, C5.C., '30, has heen chosen as Superior of the new Holy Cross Mission in Uganda, Central East Africa. Father McCauley was ordained at Notre Dame on June 24, 1934, and, after teaching two years of graduate study, was assigned to the Bengal Missions in India. Illness necessitated his return to the Holy Cross Mission Headquarters in Washington, 
D. C, where he was Superior of the Sem­
inary from 1940 to 1952, and Assistant Procurator from 1952 to 1958. 
dendorf and Fisher we'll grant you, but President McGrath, a close contender for the Alumni Board, is a fellow '48cr. J. L.) JACK BENNETT has been appointed chief radiologist at St. Mary's Hos­pital, Sian Francisco. On September 27 Jack mar­ried Maureen Mulvey of Seattle, Wash., at St. Anthony's Church, Ronton, Wash. Send your Con­grats addressed to 2244 Vallejo St., San Francisco 
23. BILL KEEN^VN is staff attorney for the New Haven R. R., specializing in administrative law. He lives in AVallingford, Conn., with his wife and four children (add one dog and one lawn mower— all in perpetual motion.) Bill occasionally sees DR. BOB NENNO. 
TO.M MALONEY %vritcs (finally!) that he was married on Nov. 27, 1954. He and his wife Rose have a daughter about one year old. Tom works for (ILVRRY) O'.MEIL/V Outdoor Advertising, and therefore his nuptials were immortalized with a congratulatory- message on an enormous billboard. LEO SCL/\FANI stops by the advertisers' office oc­casionally. Now comes a letter from Prcxy OLLIE HUNTER who writes that "it was truly a privi­lege and an honor to learn of my recent dcctlon to the presidency of our outstanding class. Let's hope that the next fi%c vears will be our best by far." 
CHARLIE QUINLxVN is now a division super­visor for Muscular D>-strophy Assodation of Amer­ica at the New York headquarters. CARL COCO had a small scale reunion with BOB CORRIGAN and his wife and sue children. Carl matched with six children. LEO RITTER, father of four sons and three daughters, is superintendent of communi; cations for the New York Central R. R. In Detroit. BILL FORD was transferred from Standard Oil, El Paso, to the San Francisco office. Bill's present job is analyst in executive development. He now lives in Palo ^Vlto with his wife and two children-REV. KEVIN B. O^DOHERT^' was appointed pastor of St. Thomas Church, Briganline, N. J., a beach resort. Father was traveling in Europe around reunion time. 
JOE GVMPAGNA regretted missing the reunion but says he had to "go west" to buy feeder cattle for his Indiana ranch. GENE FEHLIG took time ofT last summer from the Fehlig Bros. Box & Lum­ber Co., St. Louis, to vacation in Montana with his wife and five children. FRED CHRISTM.\N is in the plumbing contracting business, attended 

a national convention last summer in July. KEX KEMPF announces (it's now a year later) an ad­dition to the family: Paul Anthony, bom in Janu­ary-, 1958. BILL CARROLL, the squire of Wood­stock, has five kids, says he regretted haWng to miss the Reunion. BOB MURPHY reports from North HolI>'wood of a post-reunion get-together with BILL WALDREN. Bill regaled DON GUY, HARRY KELSEY and Murph wth tales of the week end last June. JOHN FLYNN, M.D., prac­
tices opthalmology in Baj-shore, N.Y. 
GENE HILKERT is no%v manager of plastics di­

vision sales for the Koppers Co. Gene had pre­
viously been assigned to New England before the 
transfer to Pittsburgh. The Hilkerts have four 
children. CHAS. MURPHY has two daughters and 
two sons and celebrated his 11th wedding anniver­
sary last summer. 
AL CALARCO has three children: Anthony, 14; 
James and Kathrv'n, II, the latter tno being twins. 
AI is assistant plant metallurgist at Doehler-Jarvis 
die casting plant in BataWa, N.Y. He met BOB 
KING in Toledo last fall in a hotel lobby — and 
they recognized one another immediately. CHUCK 
K[\NE regretted haWng to miss the Reunion but 
had to stay home in Cleveland to \\-atch the store, 
a Ford dealership. Vice-President BILL MIDDEN­
DORF vacationed in Canada and Nc^v England. 
Bill stopped to see polio victim FRANK STUART 
in West Newton. Bill sa>*s Frank is improving. 
DICK MILLER writes: "Not much news — still 
practidng O. B.-Gyn. Three children, one wife. 
Driving a TR-3 sports car, otherwise same." 
JERRY SMITH has been appointed associate pro­

fessor of English in State U. Teachers College at 
Geneseo, N.Y. JOE aALL.\H.AN was last heard 
from spending an extended vacation in Niagara 
Falls, N.Y., after a tour of duty overseas (Jav-a) 
for National Carbon Co. 
JAMES L. MURPHY (third Murphy reporting 

this edition), the Montana dude rancher, went into 
double harness recently with a talented West Vir­
ginia filly named Gayle Elaine McCracken — date 
and place uncertain from the dipping (late summer 
in Butte is an educated guess). The happy couple 
reside at Jim's Ox Yoke Ranch, Emigrant, Mont. 
Were you there, Fehlig? 
Cindnnati coundlman JACK GILLIGAX made an eloquent appeal before his deanery's Coundl of Catholic Men for a more Christian approach to problems of slum housing, civil rights and discrimi­nation. His indictment of Catholic indifference to the plight of the oppressed as "a new kind of iso­lationism" was ^videly distributed by NCWC news service. 
BOB O'REILLY, vice-president of O'Reilly Office 

Supply Company and offidal photographer for the 
N. D. Club of Fort Wa>-ne, Ind., has been named honorary photographer for the Fort ^Vayne post of the Indiana State Police. Bob has hdd many po­sitions vrith the Allen County shcrifPs reserves, in­cluding liaison officer for Civil Defense, district sergeant, lieutenant and training officer. And CY DONEG/\N wants all to know he's in the public rdatlons and ad consulting business. Woods, Done­gan & Co., 48 West 48th St., New York. N.Y. 
Congratulations to JOHN J. McHALE on being named vice-president and general manr^er of the pennant-pushing Milwaukee Braves. A former ath­lete at N. D. who never lost his love for sports, ­Johnny has been general manager of the American League's Detroit Tigers in recent years. 
JUNE I2-I3-I4 
-4 ..-^J^-t-,''-­

194il George A. Bariscillo, Jr. 
• '^^ 515 5th Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 
In a few short months the Class of '44 will be making its way back to the campus for its 15tb reunion. It will be a treat to sec the old faces again and to revisit the old haunts of our collfgi­atc days. We recall the happy times we ynfoyed at our 5th and 10th reunions, and this 15th gives every advance evidence of being the greatest! I'm sure those who attended our past tv%-o reunion 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 55 
i^' 
l-K!;l 
OFROCKRIYERVALLEY 
zx'ii.-jiraJ^i^^-.: 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY This smiling delegation is part of a three-bus caravan from Freeport, Dixon and Sterling, 111., making a club-sponsored trip to lo^va City for the lowa-N.D. game last November 22. 
gatlierings will all be back; I hope that those who were unable to attend will try thcif best to be on hand this time. Our local committee, headed by JOHX LYNCH and BOB LEHMAN, have been hard ac work with the Alumni office and already have a few "surprises' planned. Puring football season between the Army and Duke games I had several meetings with Lynch and Lehman. Class "prcxy" JACK THORNTON was jo from Chicago for the confabs and we \*'cre joined by representa­tives from the alumni ofHce. ^fany of the advance details were ironed out, and take it from me, you woa*t want to miss this rcunionl 
Tliere's been quite a bit of confusion over the alumni office records of our classmates and proper class listings. Actually, all of us who started at 
N. D. in 1940 (or by Feb., 1941) should be affili­ated wth the Class of '44, regardless wliat year wc completed our education, obtained our degree, left for the service, returned from the serxice, or what-have-you. Everyone %vho is currently listed by the Alumni office as a member of the Class of *44 has already received a class roster with latest addresses. If you did not receive a roster it's be­cause the Alumni office docs not have your current address, or you have not requested listing with the class of '44. If this is so, I suggest a postcard post­haste, addressed to the Alumni Office, Noire Dame, Indiana, and a message something along these lines: "Please immediately amend your records to include me as a member of the Class of 1944. My present address: — — — —." Otherwise, you'll not be receiving advance mailings and data pertain­ing to our reunion this June. And ff you started with us in '40 or '41, you should be with us now! 
Since the rosters were mailed your secretary has received a number of comments from classmates who arc disturbed their roommates and other friends aren't listed on the current roster. Tliis is not the fault of the Alumni office, but because your roommates and friends have clioscn to affiliate them­selves with some other class. Let's tr>" to bring these wanderers back to the fold! A major project is underway, thanks to the research efforts of LxTich and the Alumni office personnel, and an invitation-back letter is being sent to as many of these '44 men as possible. 
JACK THOR.\TOX has reactivated the '44 Club in Chicago and they're holding regular meetings in preparation for this June. Chicagoland men, telephone Jack at DE 7-5252, Exi. 605, it you haven't been receiving notices of the meetings. 
Special thanks to "BL.\CK JOHN" .MURPHY (who is with Clias. Pfizer & Co. in Terrc Haute, Ind.) and TOM ROLFS (vice-prcx>- of Amhy Leather Products Co. in West Bend, AVis.) for their extra efforts and assist in the pre-rcunion promo­tion, ^lay 1 a^ain request you send out circulars, postcards, (or even letters if you're ambitious) to old friends telling them you'll be at N. D. in June and making sure they're there, too. 
Getting back to my fall sojourn on the campus for the Army and Duke games, it was good to \Tsit again with JOHN MORRISON who is doing special studies in the math dcpt.; NORM HAUSER 
who is teaching math on the r^impus; BARRETT GUTHRIE who is with Lumberman's Mutual Ins. 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Co. in South Bend; DOM BOETTO who was up from Joliet, III., where he practices law and has a comer on the insurance market; also a good visit with HARRY yE.\TES, who is an editor with the Reuben Donnelly Corp. in Chicago. Also picked up nc\*s on TOM O'CONNOR, who is with the 
J. Waller Thompson advertising agencv- in Chi (and whose wife presented him with twins last summer). Learned that JACK MORAN is active in the fur business in downtown Chicago, and JACK O'NEILL is practicing internal medicine in New Haven, Conn. PAT KILEY was up from Marion, Ind., for the game, but we missed him in the crowd. Many more, of course, from Chicago and environs were in for the Army game, but the rush in and rush out prevented any get-togethers, 
Tliomton reports seeing J.\CK SEGERSOX, JI.M PL.\TT, JIM COAKER and "MOXIE" ROGERS often in Chi, and we'll be looking for them in June, along with a huge delegation from the "Windv City." "BERNIE" FINUCANE, BOB METZLER and JOE VAN DYKE will be heading the gang from Kansas City, and we can look for JOHN ANHUT corralling the crowd from Detroit. I understand a lot of the New York crowd arc making advance plans to be on hand. JOHN DUFFY chairmanncd the New York Club trip to Baltimore for the Naiy game, and is no doubt or­ganizing a similar jaunt to N. D, for the reunion. 
JIM MAHONEY writes from Orlando, Florida, that he definitely will be on hand for the reunion. Jtm is president of the C. L. Mahoney Cir.. me­chanical contractors, and heading up the Kloiida office of his company's operation. 
CY DESMET is making plans to attend in June. He's switched from chem. cng. to teaching school and should have some interesting stories for us. 
WALTER RO.MITO, who is with the Rouiito-Donnelly C3rp. in Ravenna, Ohio, is looking for­ward to the big get-together. 
SA.M WING will be up from Dallas in June. He writes, "'I am looking forward with keen anti­cipation getting together again with all the old fellows. Boy, we are really getting along in years when you consider that next year (this June) marks llic fifteenth since our happy days at N. D." Sam is right, wc are getting along — so let's not miss this one! 
FR.\NK STU-MPF writes from Riclimond, Vir­gina, '*You can count on my being there. I'm abo pushing JOE VAN DYKE, JIM MEAGHER, DICK DOERMER, JACK WATERS, PAUL DOHR, LEO L.ARDIE, etc. Down in Houston a couple of weeks ago and got a promise out of TOM BRENNiVN, not only to be there, but to be there a couple of davs earlv." 
**BLx\CK JOHN" MURPHY writes an interest­ing letter, reporting seeing a number of the g-ing at games this fall at' N. D.,' including' **RED JOHN" MURPHY (whose new address is 825 Gregory- Ave., Wilmettc); ED "BLOOPER" DOW­LING in from Nc\v Hyde Park, N.Y.; and TED SMITH, up from Anderson, Ind. Dowling now manages the purcliasing dept. of one of Pan-Aincrl­
can's subsidiaries, a hotel chain. *'Murp" also re­
ports seeing BOB McAULIFFE in Syracuse last 
summer. PAUL MARIETTA is secretary of the N. D. club in Terre Haute and busying himself l^^ the insurance business. "Old roomie, JIM LLOYl^ ' ^•isited us," writes John, "in his Renault prior to a promotion. He is sales manager of a West Bend appliance outfit." And a birth announcement from "Black John," the arrival of their fourth, a daugh­ter, Maureen Anne, a living doll! 
Had a visit with ED DRINKARD recently. He 
was on a field trip to nearby Fort Monmouth, 
(N.J.) for American Machine Sc Foundrx* Co., in 
Alexandria, Va. 
Enjoyed hearing from TO.Nf HALLIGxVN (Flint, Mich.) who writes, '*! have been planning to write you for the past several years; the day has ar­rived." (Ed. Note: wish the day would "arrive" for a few others, Tom.) *'As you probably remem­ber, I used to run the bowling alle>'5 in WalsMi Hall and after getting my law degree I am stil*^ doing the same thing. I now have three establish­ments in Flint, comprising a total of sixty-two lanes. We have our fourth establishment on the drawing boards and I plan to have it in operation next spring. Occasionally I see some of the lads from our class, but not too often. R.\Y KELLY is now selling stocks and bonds in Flint for the Roney Company. I sec BEN MAMMINA about once a vcar. Bv the way, do vou ever hear from BUZZ Hx\SSETT, PAUL UN\'ERZ.\GDT or TOM FOR­NEY? I'll be looking for^vard to seeing you next June." 
JIM CLARKE is asst. director of the property 
management and relocation division of the St ^ 
Louis Housing Authority, and hopes to be at N. Iw ) 
in June for the reunion. 
FR^\NK S^VNFILIPPO who is with Dcnnisons of Glens Falls (New York) definitely plans to be on the campus next June for the loth reunion. Frank says he occasionally runs across LEE ROOHj\N 
who is a dentist in Saratoga Springs a few miles from Glens Falls, and about once a year has a visit with BILL MJVRTIN in Alltntown, Pa., where Bill is a vice-president of sales for the Stu\-\-csant Insurance Co, *'lt hardly seems possible," WTites Frank, "but while I don't have any boj-s, one of my four girls is only four years aivay from St. 
Mary's." 
It is w*ith deep regret wc announce the death CJB'I another of our '44 men, JOHN .V. PARCHE.M, oi ^ October 5, 1958, in South Bend. 
And this now concludes our '44 news for this trip. I want to thank all of you who filled out and returned our questionnaire. Some of the m­swers arc truly astonishing. Wc are in the midst of assembling and tabulating all of the data, and 
wc hope to have ready in time for the reunion a 
brochure-keepsake for all of you. If there are any 
questionnaires still floating around, it would Iiclp 
if they be filled out and returned. I will person­
ally appreciate "any * cfTorts' any of you 'expend" in ' 
promoting our 15th reunion. Wc should all make 
a sincere effort to be back for this one! 
From the Alumni Office: 
9)
You'd never know it from his column, but GEORGE BARISCILLO has been on the Board of Commissioners for the Borough of Bradley Beach, 
N. J,, since last November 1. The Honorable G. 
ANDREW, besides working like a beaver for the Reunion^ maintains his law partnership in Asbur>' ^Park. Xotc well, girls, that Commissioner Bariscil­^no's new role as the most promising young politico on the Jersey Shore only increases his standing as the handsomest, most eligible bachelor since Bob Mcyner hit the dust^ Another star on the political horizon is BERNARD F. BOWLING. Last fall Bcrnii: was clioscn by the city council to be mayor of the Loui5\"illc, Ky., suburb of St. Matthew's. The mayor-designate also owns and operates a bak­ery* business. His wile operates a full-limt laundry and cafeteria for Bcrnic and their nine children. REV. FRANK P. GOODMAN was ordained Feb­ruary* 1 by Archbishop Hurley of St. Augustine in St. Joseph's Church, Winter Haven, Florida, and offered his first .Solemn Mass the following ^^unday. MIKE GRtVNAT, industrial relations di­recto r of Drewr>-s Ltd., U.S.A., participated in his umpteenth United Fund Toicli Drive last fall as head of solicitor training for 2,000 volunteer woik­crs in the South Bend area. DAN J. HECHT, for­merly of Peoria, recently moved to EfTinghani, III., with his wife and six children and cstablisheti )')an Hecht Chevrolet, Inc. We've never learned whc:her he made it but HARRY LAVERV ^vas tlie young­est candidate for /Vssociate Judge of Chicago's Mu­nicipal Court to be endorsed by the Chicago Bar Association and received the highest rating of any non-incumbent candidate. A former state rcprcscn­talive, Harry has been a very successful trial law­yer for ten years. Another Ia%\->'er, BILL LAW­LESS, has enlarged his firm in BufTalo, N. Y. ^OH N O'CONNELL has been working hard to re­activate the Carolina Club since he located in Charlotte, N- C. John is with J. N. Pease & Co., engineers and architects. ROBERT W. SCHR*\MM has joined Southern Nitrogen Co. as general man­ager of development. Bob, who will ser\-e the Sa­\-3nnah, Ga., company from its New York office, makes his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y., with his wife and three daughters. EDWARD J. SINGELYN has been appointed an account executive in the Detroit office of Young & Rubicam, Inc., advertising agency. Ed and lus family hang out in Birmingham, Mich. It's our first opportunity to commend MIKE STEP­OVICH for a brave try in his race for an Alaskan scat in the U. S. Senate. And finally, in a happier election aftermath. New York Governor-elect Nel­
^*o n Rockefeller appointed JOHN HART TERRY of Syracuse to the post of appointment officer on his personal staff. John is a very active member of the N. D. Club ot Central New York. 
IOAC Al Lesmez 
• ^^"* 122 Tullamorc Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 
ONE YEiVR TO GO!'. 
We're just short by a few montlis for it to be one year to go for our great 15-year reunion. Start making plans for the first week in June, 1960. It will be here sooner than you think. 
•o< ID YOU KNOW Ta\T. . . HANK PISANKO is now living in Alexandria, Virginia. . . that he is employed by the U. S. Na\y Department, Washington, D.C., as a communicator. . . . that he and his wife Sophi have three lovely children; Barbara, nine; Henry, two; and Michael, one. . . that CL/\RKSON S. FISHER is a Coun­sellor at Law for the Juska and Fisher firm. . . that his wife, Mae, bore hira three sons: James, eight; Clarkson, Jr., six; and Scott, t%vo. . . that CHARLES L. LESLIE is a well-known M.D. in that great state of Texas. . . that Charles and Kay have four little Leslies. . . that their names are Charles Jr., Patrick, Laurie, Mary Kathcrine. | . . . that WILLIAM F. GR.\NT is the Division "Salcs Manager and Advertising Manager for the Firch Baking Co., Inc. of Erie, Pa, . . . that Bill, his wife, Mary Agnes, and their three cJiildrcn, Patrick, William, and Christopher, have moved to 3921 Myrtle St., Erie, Pa. . . . that Bill is the Vice-President of the Notre Dame Club of Erie. . . that REV. RICHARD W. TI.MM, C.S.C., resides at the Notre Dame College, of Dacca, East Pakis­un. . . that he has been back to the campus five or six times when-on leave in the U. S. . . . that ^^ajo^ FREDERICK J. BOEBELER, JR., is now living at Fort Sam Houston, Texas. . . that he and his wife Virginia have quite a handful with their five children, Virginia, Frederick III, Thomas, Gerard, and Robert. . . that Fred's title is Man­^agcment Officer. . . that his duties include Fund­ing, Budgeting and Operation Analj-sis. . . that the Idalio population increased August 13, because a fourth daughter was born to the ROBERT ERKINS . . . that the little lady, Melanie Dey, was brought 
LEONARD F. SWOYER, '44 On the ball (m bearings) 
AVhcn the Notre Dame Class of 1944 re­
turns for its Fifteenth Anniversary Reunion 
on June 12, the officers hope to see many 
who, like Leonard Swoycr, started with the 
*44 men in 1940 but had to wait for a 
post^var degree. 
Leonard has just been made general sales manager for the New Departure Division of General Motors Corporation. Foremost manufacturer of ball bearings and bicycle products. New Departure operates plants in two Connecticut cities, Bristol and Meriden, as well as one in Sandusky, Ohio. 
Although he received his mechanical en­ginecring degree in 1947, Len requested that he be listed with the *44 gang. He entered the U. S. Navy in 1942 and re­turned an officer in 1946, finishing the next year with the help of V-12 credits from Cornell. 
A native of Dunkirk, N. Y., Len joined the New Departure organization shortly after graduation and served as a sales engi­neer in the firm's St. Louis, Mo., and Chi­cago salcs territories for about five years before starting a pretty dazzling ascent to the top sales job. In 1952 he was made manager of the Davenport, Iowa, zone sales office and two years later was called to man­age the Bristol zone office. In the past five years he has been eastern regional sales manager, also in charge of all the bearing company's export salcs, and, since 1956, assistant general sales manager. 
Leonard and Mrs. Swoyer (the former Genevieve E. Hcinen, of Fowler, Ind.) live on Village Lane in Harwinton, Conn., with their "newest departures," six little Swoycrs. 
home to see her brother, Gregory-, and her three sisters, Mclbsa, Melinda, and Maria. . . that J.\CK 0*DONOGHUE of Waitc Hill Village, WiUoughby, Ohio, once worked Jor the FBI and that he is now the General Sales Manager of the Cleveland Pneu­matic Tool Co. . . . that Jack and his wife,­Betty, have six little ones. . . that the children's 
names arc Deidre, Sean, Barbara, Christopher, Ter­
ese and Cornelia. . . that ANTHONY J. PIZZA­
RELLI of 430 Yarmouth Rd., Rochester, N. Y., 
is an M. D. . . . that hb wife Joan and their five 
children are proud of their M.D. daddy. . . that 
the children's names are Christine, Anthony, Nancy, 
Ann and ^larjorie. . . that the following five cliil­
dren, Peter, Mary Catherine, Michael, Susan, and 
John, arc the children of Grace and PETER Mc­
>UHON of 1841 E. 27th Street in Tuba, Okla. . . 
that the children's father is the Vice-President of 
the C. L. McMahon, Inc. . . . that Pete belongs 
to the Alumni Club of Tulsa. . . that BROTHER 
VINCENT DE PAUL has moved from Holy Cross 
College, New Orleans, to St. Edward University, 
Austin, Texas. . . that GERARD JOSEPH O'­
BRIEN has a new residence: 3575 Watson Road, 
Indianapolis 5, Indbna. . . that the ARTHUR 
CHARLES SATORE's netv address is 133 So. Edgc­
mont Ct., HuntsviUe, Alabama. , . that the Secre­
tary-Treasurer of the Don S. Cisle, Contractor 
Company, Inc., is none other than BON S. CISLE, 
JR., of 772 Oakwood Drive, Hamilton, Ohio. . . 
that his wife, Marion, and his three children Anne, 
Donnie, and Susan keep him quite busy. . . that 
Don went back to the campus to see a football 
game. . . that Don saw BUD GOTTA recently. . . that EMMET T. SHEERAN is an M.D. in Fos­toria, Ohio. . . that he and his wife, Janet have five little ones running around the house. . . that DR. F. J. TENCZAR is now residing at 2639 N. Kcdzle .Ave., Chicago 47, III. . . . that ROBERT EARL THOMAS has moved from Groton, Conn., to 718 Melrose Street, Annapolis, Maryland. . . that ROBERT JOSEPH GRIMES aUo has a new address. . . that Bob moved from Cleveland, Ohio, to N.Y.C. R.R. Passenger Station, Elkhart, Indi­ana. . . that the President of the Columbia Min­eral Corporation of Louisiana is GEORGE J. DESPOT. . , that he and his wife PcarIa and their little daughter Susan, 3, no^v reside at 317 Market Street, Shreveport. . . that George belongs to the Shreveport Alumni Club. . . that he has been back on the campus and still wonders how he ever missed attending the lO-year reunion back in 1955. 
LOST AND FOUND DEPARTMENT 
Anyone knowing the whereabouts of the follow-in?, please notify me. Letters have been mailed to these classmates, and the letters have come back marked "Unknown at Address". . . if you have any knowledge of where these *'Iost** people are residing, please write to let me know: JOHN ^S. .ADAMS, 3500 I4th Street, Washington, D. C ; FRANCIS J. KENT. 3405 Drexcl, Chic;^o, Illi­nois; DAVID RENSING, Sports Department, Chi­cago Tribune, Chicaso, Illinois; DR. F. GILBERT McNLAHON, St, Mar>-'s Hospital, Grand Rapids, Michigan; REV. HAROLD L. BRIDE, C.S.C., 1062 Chamelton, Eugene, Oregon; JOHN J. CONNEL­LY, St. Mar^''s Seminary, Roland Park, Baltimore 10, Maryland; and FARRE JOSEPH PEQUIGNEY, Rice Institute, Houston, Texas. Please help us to find them. 
MANY THANKS 
My heartfelt thanks for all the wonderful Clirlst­mas cards whicli were sent to your class secretary by Elise and P.AUL SMITH; JA.MES DONOVAN; FATHER DON TRACEY; LARRY ROMOGOSA (Panama); A. E. SARTORE; the D.AVID CART­WRIGHTS; Marilyn, Eddie, Shelley, and ED LA ROCQUE; FATHER ED KADQIEL.\WSKI, C.S.C.; JIM CLYNES, JR.; Barbara and TOM CHRISTOPHER; Mary Ellen and PATRICK BER­TIN; Bcttv, Man.-, and TOM McCAUGHEY; Pat and J. D. USINA; JOHN \i. HOSBEIN, Rose, John Peter, Michael and Robert Hosbelns; REM TONER; Dolores and HARRY RY.AN and the boys; Ruth and J.ACK MEYER and the four little Mey­ers; Pat and BUD GOTTA; Kay Anne, Michael, Mark and PHIL NL\RTIN; Phyllis and JACK BOWEN and their three boys and three girls; Jean and JOHN TERRY; and FATHER JOHN J. CAV­AN.AUGH, C.S.C. It was wonderful hearing from all of you. 
LETTERS-FROM DEP.ART.MENT 
From CHUCK SARTORE: "How are you? I enjoy hearing from you and our buddies in the ALUMNUS, but never seem to have much time to write. 
"The Ford Motor Co, sold their plant at Mem­phis last June, and I started working for the Chrysler Missile Division at the Redstone Arsenal in July. Haven't run into any N. D. alumni yet, 
'*Micliael was t^vo in November and Bill will be one in February, so we are quite busy diasina; them around. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, ^959 55 
*'What's the latest with you and your family. 

You just tell about the other people in your col­
umn. 
"Wc hope to move into our new home at 1819 

Melbourne AvCj Huntsvillc, Ala., on December 31. 
Tell any \-isiting alumni to let me hear from them. 
Sincerely.'* 
From JOHN D. BOW'EX JR.: "I am sorry to 

say that I have been out of touch iWth former 
Notre Dame acquaintances for so long that I, seri­
ously doubt if any of them would recosnlze or 
remember mc. Some graduated in '45, others in '48. 
*'A5 you €sin sec by the card, my wife Phyllis 

and I have sue children—John Dennis, James, ^\'i^ 
iiam Patrick, Kathleen Man, Colleen Ann, Mau­
reen Patricia, and Shannon (the dog). I am em-
plo^'ed in the Plastic Industry* as a plastic product 
engineer dealing mainly *vith industrial insulations. 
*'Somc of the names of former acquaintances at 

Notre Dame xiliich I recall arc BILL MAHONEY 
(my St. Ed's roommate); JOE ^L\HONEY, Ash­
tabula's one and only; ED KRUPA from Flint; 
JLM GRAUER (spelling??) from Box Harbor, 
Maine; Jim's roommate, JIM FORD and VINME 
MURPHY (he is now a Doc). There are many 
more but, I'm 501x5- to say, I have forgotten tlic 
names. Have a ^ferry Christmas and a good year." 
From HARRY RYAN: TIic latest is another son —a wonderful addition to the R>'an clan. 
"Eveiything is fine and I sincerely hope the same with you and your family. My business could be worse and I have nothing to 'gripe' about. I am looking forv»-ard to our 15-year reunion. 
"Had a wonderful Christmas. Talked to MIKE GARRY. Saw TOM McavUGHEY during the faolida>'s and all are fine. Take good care of your­self, Al, and I am looking forward to seeing you. 
P. S.: Do I owe any dues?" (Sec'y.'s Note: I'll let BILL MOORE xmtc you if you do.) 
From JOE FISHER: "Have three children, Mark, 5; Paul, 3; Janet, I. Am an attorney in the legal department of Aluminum Co. of America (Alcoa). 
"You do a great job for the class, Al, and this form is a good example. Thanks for making it easy to write tlils note to you. 
"Hope you have a happy New Year." From JOHN a\RON: "Spent a weekend with DAVE CHAMPION in Cleveland and drove doun to Pittsburgh for the Pitt-ND game with Dave and his wife. "We heard from a lot of people through Christ­mas cards. BOB OTOOLE, who just adopted a 
baby; BOB SNEE; ED HANDAN; ED BALL; 
FR.\NK and HARRY GILLIGAN, and J. D. 
USINA, who is at the Na\-\* War College at New­
port. 
From JIM BUTLER: "On November 8tli, William 

James Butler came into the world weighing 8 
pounds so now wc have a girl and a boy. ED 
FAUST stopped to ^isit a few weeks ago. He 
seemed happy x%*ith his new position in St. Louis. 
Recently sa%v HAROLD WISMANN loo. He still 
has his wonderful chuckle. Pat and GEORGE SIP­
PLE just had their third child — a fine boy named 
Scott. Soctt was born two days before Billy, so wc 
can really make comparisons. Billy is already los­
ing his hair. Tlie kids grow up too fast these da>-s. 
Hope to sec ED LaROCQUE in a few weeks. 
Heard from JOHN HOSBEIN, who is now back in 
the Chicago area." 
From GENE OTOOLE: "Last April 17 my wife presented roc with a fine baby boy \vht> now is starting to get around and give us a lot of pleasure. 
"DICK O'CONNELL and wife visited us the weekend of the Army game, whicli the wife and I saw. Dick's the same as ever. 
"He is the only N. D. man I've heard of in the last year. I haven't heard from anyone else." 
From CHUCK LUGTON: "I've been liring in Santa Fe, New Mexico, for about ten years now. I am an associate of an ardtitectural firm here doing schools and commercial work. My wife. Marge, xmd I have three girls, I^ura, Karen and Nanc\-.' Tlicy really keep us hustling. I must say that I think we certainly have the best class secre­taiy-. Keep up the excellent job! 
"Best wishes for a joyous Christmas." 

From JAMES J. DONOVAN, JR.: "It's been a long, long lime. Here is a brief resmnc: I'll be married ten years in June and ha\-e five children, ages 8, 7, 5, 3, and 1 — three girls and two boys. I x\-as in the meat business for ten years, but re­turned to my chosen profession — school teaching. I am currently teaching English and Social Studies in Ir\ington High Scliool, New Jersey. I hope to make the 15-vear reunion." 
From FATHE R >VILLIAM BEVINGTON: **Tlianks ver>- much for the card. Congratulations for doing such a fine job of keeping in touch witli ever>onc. It is gratifying to see the spirit of a Class kept alive, especially when one largely respon­sible for it keeps reminding us of the meaning of those two words, "Notre Dame." 
"May you too and your family have a happy feast day and New Year. Sincerely." 
Seemingly debating who was the Biggest Man On Campus (standing, I. to r.) are '39ers Bcmie Feeney, Walter Short, Phil Maloney, Paul Tully and Val Dcalc, while (seated, I. to r.) Martha Short, Betty Maloney, Lynne Tully and Flos Deale skeptically check the '39 yearbook. Classmates and wives were guests in the Tullys* Washington home. 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
From CHUCK POWERS: "The practice of law doesn't give mucli time for this so just a note to bring you up to date. My wife presented mc ^ritWj son number three, child number four last February.. Claire now has some company besides the drab com­panionship of her husband! Both of us managed to get away for the weekend of the x\rmy game tc 
the campus and enjoyed a pleasant auto trip out there and back. Saw JOHN L/VVERY, BUD GOT­TA, BOB ERKLVS, JOE LAUCK and IL\NK PAYNE that dark day, . . %v*as re-elected to an­other three-year term on the Somerset Scliool Board recently. Keep up tlie good work for the class and maybe we can get you re-elected to the job for life!" (Sec'y.'s Note: Beginning in I960 we'll need someone younger, so I'll be bowing out.) 
From MICHAEL A. BISESI: "I am now living in Boulder, Colorado, haring moved here in June^ '58. Love the country. w) 
"Building a new home and plan to be in it by 15 January, *59. 
*'0n November 1, I took over a bar and restau­rant in Boulder, Colorado, called Michael's Pub — located at 1122 Pearl. 
"Tr>- to keep up with former friends through the iVLUMNUS. 
"Merry Christmas and a happy '59. My ne^v• ad­dress after 15 Januarj-, 1959, will be 1010 Rosehill Drive, Boulder, Colorado." 
From JOHN R. MADDEN: "Bigger family — larger house. New address is 1296 West 72 Street, Kansas City, 14, Missouri. New arrival (Doctor sa>-s possibility of two is due around the middle of January. .\L\LACHI PATRICK (4) and SE.-\N/#^ MARtV (2) can hardly wait for *Mommy to get Ht-^ tie again.' Had a long visit with BOB RExVRDON last night, and I sec most of the gang from the 
K. C. Alumni Club. Looking fonvard to our big' Christmas Dinner-Dance the 27th. '*Pcrsonally, I'm still traveling for the Milwaukee 
Lace Paper Co. *'Merry Christmas and a happy New Year." From JOHN W. HOSBEIN: Wc moved to this 
new address (which I note you have) in early Octo­ber. DilTerent job with same company — M. H. Detric — who are industrial furnace lining design­ers. Tlic ^*'ork now involves development and pro­ject coordination, rather than sales engineering, which ^^-as our contribution in Pittsburgh. 
"I've seen JOHN HORRIGAN for lunch sevcraif times and run into JOHN DILLON in the building^ often. I lost track of JIM BUTLER when he went to Indianapolis, and BOBBY BROWN when he was in Mihvaukec. If you have an address for the lat­ter, I'd like it. (Try R. No. 1, Sioux City 1, Iowa.) Tlie BH advises we have Butler located. 
"We are fidly occupied with three sons: Peter 4, MicliacI 2, and Robert %." 
From JAMES J. CLYNES, JR.: "There isn't too much news from this end except that while I was at South Bend I ran into FRANK LINEHAN and his wife at the Army game and of course I did run into you, Al, in the restaurant. It was nice seeing all of you but it was too bad the Irish couldn't have w'on that one. tf"* 
"I wish all the class tlie best of luck in the"^ New Year and if there is anything I can do to help lighten your burden >vith regard to our 15th reunion, please do not hesitate to call me. Looking forward to hearing from you. Vcr>' truly yours." 
From J- D. USINA: "It's been a while since I wrote in with a bit of news about the Usinas. On 18 August Laurecn Elizabeth joined Mik e (4), Tim (3), and Terry (I'/a), as our fourth. Pat and I had settled on a bo>*'s name and had to scramble when %ve were blessed with a girl in the Newport hospital. 
"I am here as a student at the Nav-al War Col­lege; started on 14 August. The course is ver^ 1 challenging and I am very happy with the duty. • 
"DAVE CHAMPION spent the last weekend in September with us and we had a good deal of cateliing up to do — stayed up until the wee hours. 
*'Have not seen anyone else of the old group in months. As usual, hate to commit m>'self about 1960 — not knowing where my next duty will be. 
"Had a nice trip on the Larson before I was detadied in June. Went south to Auckland, NCTV^ Zealand, back north to Japan via Manus and Guam. Had a turn on the Formosa patrol and then a brief stop in Hong Kong. Got off the ship there and flew back to the States. 
"Sorry I haven't more news at the present but will try to drop a line sooner next time. Sin« > cercly." '-^ 
From JOHN R. ^VELCH: "Married Eileen Ball,­have four children, Les (8 yrs.), Bridget (6 yrs.), Murray (5 yrs.) and Kelly (18 months). Am presi­
dent of Federal Savings and Loan .Association. I have been active in N. D, Club of Indianapolis^ ^as t President, Past Chairman scholarship commit-
V-e and scvcriU others. I have spent the last three Saturdays in South Bend. Saw HARRY KYXS and JACK FREEMAN. Had lunch with GUS KELLY and JOHN WHITE in New York last April. I saw JOE McN'AMARA and JOE QUILL in Indianapo­lis. Last I heard of JACK LAUCK he was In Marine Corps stationed in Washington, D. C. He was a Major." 
From GEORGE J. DESPOT: "It just occurred to me that you would possibly be interested in the letter I received from Coco and to that end, I enclose same. I have not yet encountered a min­eral transaction of the tx-pe which we discussed in New York, but don't lose sight of same yet. 
"I also enclose herewith the questionnaire whicli • ou forwarded to me recently (I believe in August). Vcr>- truly yours." 
From ENRIQUE "COCO" LULLI: "I am still alive, and so happy to hear from you. For heaven's sake, it's been ages. 
"I am married and have a son one year old. Another on the way; expecting him any day now. 
"Submerged in a deep volume of business work: publishing, importing, and distributing all kinds of oflicc supplies and equipment. 
"Building a lovely home with swimming pool, modem. "My older brother, Antonio, is IlWng in Wash­

ington; he recently purchased a nice home. He is ^h e First Secretary to the Peruvian Embassy. ^P* "Would like to hear from you and your family. 
Drop mc a line. 'Un abrazo* from your old friend." 
From the MIKE GARRY's: "Annual greetings odce again from, us Garr>*s down in "sunny" Southern Minnesota! 
"Wc missed our letter to you last year due to a new addition to our family. Of course, our Dan didn't arrive until January 29, but somehow the old ambition w-as a little lacking around the holi­days. You understand. 
"Well, now we have two years to catch up on 
— and we'll begin with the head of the Garry do­main. Mike's been busy as usual, always with something new on the fire. As he has more than doubled his facilities at the elc^-ator with his 
building projects. . . we accuse him of being a

• frustrated architect. He's still District Deputy of the KC's and loves every minute of it. Of course, it keeps him busy en many an evening, but wc feel we owe a little something for the manifold blessings the good Lord has directed our way. 
"Lots of work reaps a mighty big reward too. This last September we took a vacation!! Just Mike and roe. -. all alone. . . for five whole days! It was the first time we'd been a^*"ay alone in our sue years of marriage, and it was glorious. We just mosicd along with no destination in mind at all. . . stopping when we felt like it, moving on as Wc pleased. If we don't have another x'acation for six more years, I'm sure the memories of this one will last at least that long. Even now, when 

A-I'm feeding the baby at 6:30 a.m. I dream about "'those five mornings we slept 'til 11:30 and had a leisurely breakfast in bed. 
"Had a wonderful surprise over the 4lh ot July this year. ED SMITH, Mike's prof, at Notre Dame, stopped on his way from Seattle to South Bend. There was a lot of reminiscing done, and I'm sure some tall talcs were told. When you sec Ed, be sure to ask him how he likes the naval life. He became quite an admiral this summer. 
"Mike's a bit of a sailor himself, since we ac­quired a H-foot runabout last year. It was just before Mike look his nephew, Garr>*, to launch liim on a career at N. D. 
"Our Mary Jane is in kindergarten and loves it! 

• She has a loose front tooth, too, so we feel as if we're progressing to a grown-up state real fast. "Patrick, now 4, is a woiiderfid little boy who looks and acts just like his Daddy. 
"Kathleen is 2 now, and looks just like Mary Jane, except for her jet black hair. She has the greatest "Irish fire" in the family and she and Pat can really think up the "turn Mother gray" tricks. 
*'Dan is an angel! . . . always has been. He has 2 front teeth, smiles constantly and creeps like a lightning flash. 
"Well, that's the Garrys up-to-date. Sure would like to hear about you, and better yet, see you. If you're ever within 100 miles of Fairmont, you'd 

^ k better stop and spend a day or so with us! 
"May the good Lord bless you all and fill you with the Christmas spirit 'til next year's letter from The Garrys." 
From the ERKINS: "We hope tliat the past year 
Ohio's Govcmor-clcct Michael V. D^alle, LL.B., '49, (left) and Ray T. MiUcr, '14, chairman of the Cuyahoga County Dem­ocratic executive committee, exchange con­gratulations alter last November's elections. 
has been as enjoyable for you as it has been lor all of us. This year has gone very fast. It is hard to realize that six years have gone by since we moved to Idaho. 
"The biggest event of 1958 was the arri\'al of ^felanic. She is now four months old and a very happy and good baby. She has large hazel eyes and light brown hair. This is quite a contrast to Maria's dark brown hair and eyes and Mclinda's, Melissa's and Greg's red hair. 
"Gregory is eight years old and in the third grade. Naturally he is a good fisherman. At the present time he is a Cub Scout, which places Barnce in the class of a Den Mother. Greg also has started taking piano lessons and is doing vcrv well. 
"Melissa, who is six, started scliool this year and . likes the first grade. She and Greg ride the school bus each morning six miles to town. Lissa helps her mother about tlie house quite a bit. She and Linda take dancing lessons. 
"Mclinda and Maria, who are four and two, re­spectively, are ver>' good friends. Since neither go to school, they manage to keep under Barnee's feet most of the day. They arc into everything from one end of the house to the other. 
"We arc planning to enlarge the house tliis sum­mer as ^^'e have outgrown it. Sncc we cannot move, our only dioice is to add on, which ts a bit difHctdt as we have water on three sides of us and a ravine on the fourth. This ^rill be a busy summer. 
"Bob has done quite a bit of traveling tlic past year calling on our sales representatives and cus­tomers in various parts of the country. Barnec xmd the children also went at times. The last trip was to New York with Linda, Maria and Mclanie where We saw Barnee's parents. Bob's parents stayed in Buhl, with Greg and Lissa. 
*'Tlie trout business keeps us busy. Our home, office, trout ranch, and plant buildings are all lo­cated within a compact area in tlie Sonkc River Canvon. The large spring water S'^'stems around us permit us to live in a mild climate. AVe have had no snow this winter as yet; built an ice rink for the children, but we have no ice. 
"The best of wishes to you all for a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year." 
And that goes for mc too .. . a Happy New Year to cacli of you from your class secretary. From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT H. OTOOLE has been named a co-chairman of the banking dinsion for the $i.2 mil­lion development program of Little Company of Mary Hospital in Evergreen Park, 111. Bob, \*ice­
.president of Chicago's Pullman Trust and Sawngs Bank, lives in South Holland, 111., with wife Betty and their two children. 
Perhaps we'd better repeat that Secretary* AL LESMEZ is a very busy man these days as editor of the news monthly STWE Notes. This is not a magazine for stews but a very entertaining publi­cation of the New York cliapter of the Society of Technical Writers and Editors. Al heads the re­ports department of Sperry Gyroscope's counter­measures division. 

194 & Jack Tcnge, Jr. #-iw 2025 W. Six Mile Rd. Detroit 3, Michigan 
From tlic Alumni OfBce: 
Milwaukee's 18th district scat in the Wisconsin Assembly went to Democrat ROBERT M. CUR­LEY, who upset his opponent's bid for re-election by more than 1,500 votes. Bob was one of three Democrats to gain Milwaukee county assembly seats previously held by Republicans. 
1947 J^^^ ^^^^ 
3218 Bentley Lane South Bend 15, Indiana 
A serious thought for this particular time of the. 

year: Christmas bills abaft of us And income tax afore But happy new year any^vay And many, many more! 
So much for doggerel; let's get on %vith the news. 

ITEM "A" —That's "A" for .\DELO, S.V.M. Our immediate past president phoned me just be­fore Christmas on his way through town and in­formed me he is currently legal counsel for the international operations of Kendavis Industries, Inc., a 22-company group involved in the lucrative oil business. 
As some of you know, Sam received his law de­gree at N. D. in 1954 and went with the State Dcpt.; after three years he resigned to take ad­\'3ntage of a fellowship at the Law Institute of the Americas at Southern Methodist. This past summer he laid hold of hb master's degree in in­ternational law, having specialized in its Latin-American applications, attended the N.D. - S-M.U. football game and attended festivities In Dallas in 
September, then rounded out the year traveling throughout South America. 
Sam and his %^'ife, the former Eleanor Sabo of South Bend, now reside at the Fortune Arms Apt. Hotel in Ft. Worth. 
ITEM "B"—Fo r "Banner, Star-Spangled." And the reason >*ou missed JOE LE.'VHY's customary rendition of the National Anthem at the home football games last fall is because he is in Amster* dam doing musical research as the American Musi­cological Society's traveling scholar award winner for '58. 
Only one such award — consisting of a year's Study with a second year optional — is given each year, so Joe brings honor to himself and to Notre Dame, from which he has a leave of absence. Here's a chuckle: Musical perfectionist that he is, Joe is living at 107 Beethovenstrast in the Dutch city! 
ITEM "G" — The Cleric's Comer. FR. WIL­FRID MENARD, C.S.C., is (at least as this is sub­mitted) chaplain of the 2nd Training Regiment at Ft, Jackson, S. C. 
.\nd FR. JOSEPH F. OVN'NON, C.S.C., Is back studying for his master's in - English under the Golden' Dome after 6 years in the Bengal Missions, most recently at Bhalakapura near the f\ssam bor­der. He's also prefect of Keenan Hall's 3rd floor. 
He expressed regret that he missed by a single day last July the campus visit of one of his bene­factors and buddies, ELMER MILLIM^VN, whose brother's wedding was occasion for the South Bend trek; married and the father of two children, Elmer works for Chrysler in Detroit. 
From FR. ILVROLD ZINK, G.S,C., assistant at St. Mar>''s Cathedral in Austin, Texas: ". . .Ac­cording to my figures, there arc only 3 brothers from the class of '47 hereabouts. BROTHER PE­TER CELESTINE MARANTO, C.S.C,, who had been at St. Anthony's H. S. in Long Beach, Calif., was upon his transfer here this fall made principal of St. Edward's H. S. His blood sister. Sister M. Bernarda, CS.C.j was the principal of our grade school here. . . up to last vcar. 
"On Oct. 13 a new and beautifully-equipped sci­ence buildins on the campus of St. Edward's U. was dedicated. BROTHER RONLVRD BARTHEL, 
C.S.C., is in charge of it since he is head of the science department, and a happier man you never did see than on dedication day. 
"The 3rd member of the class do^vn here is BROTHER L.\S.\LLE ^VOELFEL, C.S.C., who is doing his usual conscientious job.­
"Heard from DAN MEANEY, and he enclosed a copy of a talk he prepared and presented to the 
N9tTe Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 57 
Newman clubs at Texas A&I College in Kingsvillc. 
The topic of the talk was 'TIic Role of the Laity.' 
In his undergraduate daj-s, Dan was verj- much in­
terested in Catholic Action; he hasn't lost his fer­
vor." 
A priest probably none of us kneu't inasmudi as 
he received an M.S. in Education in tlie ^7 sum­
mer school, FR. GEORGE SPLONSKOWSKI, 
O.S.B., was killed in an aulo accident in North 
Dakota last June. Please remember him in your 
prayers. 
ITEM "D " — For Denmark, where JAMES W. 
KELLY is presently stationed in the Foreign Scr\'­
ice; herewith a generous hunk of the fine letter he 
wrote mc late last yean 
"Following my graduation in 1947 I joined the 
Office of United Nations Affairs in the Department 
of State, ^vhcre I worked for about six years in 
the executive office. In the fall of 1948 I spent four 
months in Paris with tlie U. S. delegation to the 
U. N. General Assembly, and I spent short periods of time at U. N. headquarters in New York. In the meantime, I had married a girl I met in the office — Barbara Sommcr, whose cousin, AL SOM­^lER, by tlie way, was in our class at Notre Dame. 
•'For one year ('53-'54) I worked in the Bureau of Security and Consular .\frairs and, among other tilings, got to sec Europe again — this time as a member of a visa sur\-c>- texun that \"isited several western European posts. 
"In Sept., 1954, I joined Ambassador Lodge's 
staff at the U. S. mission to the United Nations, 
a super-charged office and a very interesting — but 
often wearing — assignment. 
"The contrast between that assignment and my 
present one in Copenhagen, where wc arrived en 
.Aug. 25, is striking. The excitement is missing, 
but life here is extremely pleasant. I'm sure many 
of our co-alumni know the beauty of Copenhagen. 
Wc also find it to be a good post as far as raising 
our four sons is concerned — schools are good, re­
creational facilities arc avcellent, and we arc com­
fortably settled in a large house near the sea. 
*'I am administrative officer for the embassy and 
expect to be here several years, after whicli we'll 
be assigned to another post. In the meantime, the 
bo>-5 arc learning Danish (th oldest one Frencli as 
well) and Barbara and I arc tr\'ing to keep up 
\vilh them. 
"By the way, there is another Notre Dame man 
here — COL. MMES F. HOGAN, ex '36, Is the 
newly-assigned air attache for the embassy." 

Jim closes with personal greetings to JIM MUR­PHY, who has been elected to the national board of directors of the American College Public Rela­tions Assn.; Murph is one of only three repre­sentatives of the organization's Great Lakes district, whlcIi numbers 383 public relations and develop­ment officers at 179 midwestern universities and 
colleges. 
ITEM "E"—Et cetera: If I translate the changc­of-address notices correctly, \'ERN GUDKESE is out of tlie Armv and back home in Ft. Wayne; ri^t, Vcm? Tl'ianks to BOB MULCAHY, BILL PECK, HON. ELMER MATTHEWS, PHIL DE­LINCKE, and DR. P.AUL LIB.ASSI for their Christ­mas cards. 

Speaking of diangc-of-address notices, as I was a paragraph ago, here are those whose new addresses arc ax'ailable from me merely for the asking: 
RICHARD L. AHEARN, JAMES J. ATKINSON^ LOUIS J. BORGHI, VICTOR G. CICIRELLI, FRANK CIS2CZON, BROTHER CYRINUS MAR­TIN, C.S.C.; THO.MAS E. COPPINGER, THEO­DORE E. DE.M.MERLE, REYNOLD J. DOMENI­a\LI; REV. JOHN A. DRISCOLL, CS.C; REV. CLETUS FR.\NCIS DIRKSEN, JERO.ME FAUST, DONALD P. FLYNN, RICHARD W. FOUNTAIN, R.\Y FRANKLIN, SISTER M. IRNL\ GAMACHE, VERNO.V W. GUDKESE, R^WMOND W. GUD­MENS, JOHN R. HOUGHTELING, DONALD G. JACKSON, RUSSELL W. JENSEN, CARL A. JULIEN, GEN. GEORGE C. KENNY, WILLIA.M 
G. KOCH, JOSEPH G. LANG, VINCENT J. LIERMxVN, JAMES W. LLOYD, IGNACIO E. LO­ZANO, JR.; LEONARD B. LUTZ, ARTHUR B. McBRIDE, JR.; DONALD J. McGRATH, GEORGE J. McQUISTON, JAMES MARTINEZ, JOHN H. MERR\'Mx\N, GERALD A. O'REILLY, ELMER J. PETERSON, PAUL L. ROISE, ED­WARD J. RUETZ, GEORGE X. SALTARELLI, PETER J. SMALDONE, JOHN S. STEHLIN, THO.MAS C. TADROSS, RICHARD A. VANDER­WAGEN, THOMAS J. WALSH, ROBERT H. WA­TERBURY, JR.; ALLEN E. YOUNG, ALBERT E. YOUNGHAUS, and a\R L J. ZOTTER. 
BEATI-N'G THE DEADLINE. . .BARELY —Tlie following classmates' new addresses came In right at press time and arc available without cost or ob­
•58 Notre Dame AlumnuSj March, 1959 
ligation: RICHARD L. AHEARN, JACK D. ALEX­
ANDER, EDWARD J. DOWD, ROBERT J. 
FOERSTNER, DR. EDWARD E. HAMEL, EU­
GENE D. HULL, WILLIAM G. KOCH, HUGH 
\\\ SKIDMORE, ROBERT F. TORRENCE, C. 
EDAMN ZANGERLE, JR., and CARL J. ZOTFER. 
Wc learned, too, that DONALD R. HAINES has 
been promoted from the rank of Lieutenant to 
Lt.-Commander at the Yards and Dock Supply 
Office of the Naxy at Port Hueneme, Calif. 
If you get tired of not seeing names of fellows 
you know In this pillar, do sometliing about it. 
Your secretary- aims to mention ever>* member of 
the class at one time or another, but let's embel­
lish those names a bit with some pertinent data. 
Just to pick a name at random out of the files. . . 
how about a note from you, DICK DEEB? If you 
come through, I can't promise you a prize, but I 
can assure you your classmates will welcome news 
of you. 
If Dick responds, perhaps we'll Inaugurate the "lottery- letter" idea on a regular basis. But don't wait for your name to be picked — u-rite NOW! 
From the Alumni Office: 
WILLIAM P. COSGROVE, fonncriy general manager of King Braegcr Chevrolet Co. in Mil­waukee, Is now vice-president and general manager of the Cosgrovc ChcvToIet Co. in West Allis, a Milwaukee suburb. Bill went to Milwaukee in 1955 to manage a finance company. 
FR^VNCIS J. MILLIG.\N, JR., has become as­sociated with the law firm of Dallstrcam, SchlfT, Hardin, Waite & Dorsdiel In Chicago. Frank was formerly trust officer of Continental Illinois Na­tional Bank & Trust Co. 
LEONARD F. SWOYER lias been appointed gen­eral sales manager for New Departure DKision of General Motors Corp. after a succession of jobs with the bearing company since graduation. Leon­ard and his wife Genevieve live In Harivington, Conn., with their six children. 
1948 ^°^^ Dcfant 
University of Notre Dame Press 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
(Ed. Note: This issue marks tlic debut of a new Secretary of the Class of 1948, an honorary* admiral in the West Virginia Nav>* name of JOHN PAUL DEFANT, author, editor, publisher, lecturer — in short, a mountain boy who made good. John is known to all the Class as a former editor of the Scholastic, the man who encouraged JOE WIL­COX to pen his Immortal **Apocr>-pha of Nlcode­mus*' and printed the polemics of California's JOHN A. O'CONNOR. In recent years John has been director of the University Press, so don't be surprised if he puts in an occasional plug for one of his publications. We'd like to thank retiring 
The masked marvel with' fullback Nick Pietrosante during practice for the Pitt game is the son of John Patterson, '41. 
Secretary- HERMAN ZITT. who has served thi 
Class for ten years under Increasingly difficult cir 
ctimstances. You can make circumstances easier fo' 
his successor if you - keep him posted on yoursc 

and your classmates.—^J. L.) 
The '48 pickings are mighty slim this quarter 

The eight items wc have are tasty and titillatlni 
but make for an undernourished-looking class col 
umn. 
Three of the eight deal with TOM DOOLEY 

who Is now doctoring in Laos, sometimes somewhal 
Inelegantly described as the underbelly of Asia. HI 
latest book. The Edge of Tomorrow, has been oul 
for several months and has won the critics' plaud­
its In the New York Times and other periodicals, 
An article entitled "The Amazing Dr. Dooley," 
appeared In the October Issue of The Catholic Di­
gest, and MEDICO, the organization which he es­
tablished to sponsor American medical missionj 
throughout Asia, has sent along a copy of his "Let­
ter from Laos,*' a newsy description of the doingj 
of his medical team In Indo-China. 
DICK O'CONNELL has come through with the 

1959 edition of O'Connell's Irish News. The two-
page, printed newsletter is the fifth annual report 
he has made on the seven members of the Family 
O'Conncll. Clever Idea, Dick, and congratulations 
on your selection as Man of the Year by the Mar­
shall, Minnesota, Jaycccs. 
Now that we've mentioned Dick's five children, 

I know of several others in the class who Iiave sired 
broods of five. The question of the month: Who 
have equalled this, or, better still, surpassed it? 
HOWARD KERHL Is the co-author of "Devclj opment cf the Chevrolet W Engine: A New Concept in V-8 Engine Design" in the September issue of General Motors Engineering Journal. It's filled with impressive diagrams and very Interesting, al­though somewhat confusing to this non-technical mind. 
The wives of KEN ENRIGHT, CHUCK CON­NORS, and TOM GALLAGHER chose an unusual way of presenting them with new progeny. All three had daughters in the same hospital, the Lit­tle Company of Mar>' in Chicago, at the same time, the week before Christmas. 
FRANK CULHANE has been appointed treasurer of The Formfit Company (no gags, anybody) of Chicago. He will continue as legal counsel and as secretary*-treasurer and a director of Formfit Inter* national, which operates in some eight countries outside the U. S. He left Artliur Andersen and Company in 1955 to join Formfit. Nice goin', 
Frank. 
It's a boy for BRAD BENNETT in West Covlna, Calif., after three girls. .Appropriately enough, the first male addition to the family put In his ap­pearance last July 4tli. 
And here's an assist to JOHNNY WALKER, the '49 Class Secrctarx-. That class' most publicized personality, TERRY BRENN.AN, has signed with tlic investment firm of Goldman-Saks. But before starting to coach in the stock and bond league he went to Florida to work the flab off some baseball players. 
Tliat wraps it up for this issue, and now is th4 time for all 48'ers to help make tlie '48 column fat and sassy. Let me know about you, your do­ings, the classmates you've been seeing, your pro­motions, job changes, and anything else that will be of interest to the rest of the class. If you don't have time to write a letter, put It on a postcard. 
JUNE 12-1314 

19d9 J°^ Walker I TtT g26 Wng St. Elgin, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: Atlomci' JAMES B. BRENNAN ousted his op­ponent, the Republican incumbent, to win a sea^ in tlic Wisconsin Senate last November. Jim, known as "Claghom" to his brother TERRY BRENNAN and the rest of the family, won the nomination over Bve other candidates in the Demo­
cratic primary in September and was elected by 

a margin of more than 9,000 votes. M[ Wc haven't heard the outcome of the race be­~veen THOMAS F. GUTHRIE and his cight-tenn 
Republican opponent for the U. S. Congress from the Third Congressional District of New Jersey. 
DENNIS CURRAN HIGGINS is cWdently a doc­tor. Dennis wouldn't have taken an ^f.S. in sur­gery from the University of Minnesota to develop a do-it-yourself hobby. 
Classmates were saddened to hear of the death of GUS MOMSEN, SR., father of our El Paso,' Tex., classmate GUS MONISEN, JR., on a business trip to New York last fall. Gns' mother had died in an automobile accident eight years before. Gus, Sr., was a director of a bank and railroad and a Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. Prayers would be appreci­

ate d for the repose of his soul. w OTTO POZGAY is rcpres'enting South Bend as an Indiana state senator after three terms in the State Legislature. Otto is a former teacher and also has a law degree from N. D., Class of '50. JOHN E. SWEENEY has decided to settle in Los Alamos, N. M., and has purchased some mesa land that was previously government property. Having been elected to a county oflice. Jack will continue in his job with the U. of California in weapons research. Sympathy to Jack on the death of his father, R. P. Sweeney, former Santa Fc superin­tendent of schools and \vell-known New Mexico educator. Jack*s brother and former classmate BOB SWEENEY is head basketball coach at the Uni­^^crsity of New Mexico, Albuquerque. Jack and his 4^ifc Marilyn (SMC, '49) have been enjoying the football games on radio and TV and hope to leave the Atomic City for the reunion of both in June. JAMES TYRRELL has been promoted to the of­fice of assistant Wce-presidcnt by the First National Bank of Memphis, Tenn, Jim has been associated with the First National since graduation and rep­resents its Correspondent Bank Department in Ar­kansas and Oklahoma. He has also picked up on 
LL.B.
 from Southern Law University in Memphis. 

J.
 PATRICK DOYLE, formerly in Franklin, Pa., has been appointed controller of the Baash Ross Division of Joy Mfg. Co., with headquarters in Dallas, Tex. Pat will be responsible for plants in Houston and Odessa, Tex., Long Beach, Calif., Ok­



^nlioma City, Okla., and Canton, Ohio. 
1950 ^^^^^^ ^* ^^^ 

47 Emerson Road j Glen Rock, New Jersey Pcrhaps this is not strictly legal for me to write this column since I am not an alumnus of the Uni­versity. However, I am married to one, and a very busy one he is. So busy, it seems, that the class column has not been his contribution for three years although it has continued to carry his name. However the blow came when a long distant col­lege friend of mine, also married to an alumnus, ^^entioncd that she read the '50 class notes religi­^jusl y hoping the correspondent would add a per­sonal note which he never did. Horrors, thought I! To think that dull, dull, column of vital statistics (no offense intended, Mr. Editor) was being circu­lated as the work of mine spouse. The blow to my marital pride leads me then to rectify the situation with this contribution of my own. 
Some of the letters I shall quote are quite old. I'm sure some of the new baby announcements will announce the arrival of children almost ready fur scliool at this point. But still the faithful souls who have written surely deserve mention, even though belatedly. 

Back in June of '56 Capt. HENRY PLETCHER ^kvrotc that he was with the 41st Armored Infantry ^^att. as battalion surgeon near Mannheim, Ger­
many. He and his wife adopted a baby boy and were delighted with their new role as parents. Henr>* planned to begin specialty training in ob­stetrics and g>'neco!og>' upon discharge and his re­turn to Philadelphia. Why don't you let us know the outcome of your plans, Henry, two and one-half years later? 
In a letter dated June 4, 1956, VERNE KELLEY writes "married the former Lois Phillips a ycar­and-a-half ago in the Log Chapel and returned im­mediately to public information post with the Na\'y's submarine force, San Diego. Released early this year, we are noiv back in Chicago where I am 

^^an account executive with Ruthrauff & Ryan, Inc., ^tidvcrtising agenc>'. 
"Wish you would list my present address — 445 West Wellington Avenue, Chicago — so H.\RRY PATTERSON, TOM FARLEY, PAUL LEAMY, DICK FITZGIBBONS or others might write. 
HERBERT H. McDADE, JR., '49 Going up with Upjohn 
Starting out to be a doctor. Herb Mc-Dade took a detour and emerged one of the top salesmen in pharmaceuticals. His latest laurels came last year when New York's Upj'ohn Company promoted him to sales manager. 
Bom in Brooklyn, Herb entered Notre Dame as a pre-medical student. Dean Law­rence H. Baldinger of the College of Sci­ence suspected that his talents tended in an­other direction. Determined at first to take up medicine. Herb finally concentrated on pharmacology and followed up his Bachelor of Science degree from Notre Dame with a 
B. Ph., cum laudc, from La\'al University in Quebec. 
He joined The Upjohn Company in the late summer of 1950 as a pharmaceutical salesman and was assigned to the Brook­lyn territory. He worked Brooklyn until 1952 and then transferred to Fairfield Coun­ty in the Connecticut District. 
Herb's aptitude for sales soon began to show. In 1954 he was promoted to super­visor of the Bronx-Wcstchester-Connecticut territory and also added a special detail as­signment to his responsibilities. A year later the Bronx-Westchester district was split and Herb retained the Westchester portion. Two years later, in April, 1957, he \vds appointed New York divisional sales manager, in charge of field supervision in the States of New York and New Jersey. He relinquished this post to assume his new job as New York sales manager, in charge of all sales in New York, New Jersey and part* of Pennsylvania. 
Herb is married to the former Ann Finu­cane. They live in Tarrytown with their three children, two girls and a boy. An avid golfer. Herb also keeps fit with squash at the New York Athletic Club. 

"JOE HERRINGTON spent the summer in Europe which disproves the notion that newspaper­men are underpaid. Another journalist, HARRY MONAHAN, was doing well on the San Diego Uiuon last time I saw him." 
TOM COMES wrote in August of '56 that he was now with the Maumee Lumber Co., Conant St., Maumee, Ohio. He was married to .Agnes Rose Fiegellst and they had a little daughter, Mar­tha Marie, who was then ten months old. 
Next in this pile of disa and data we find a Wedding announcement concerning the marriage of Shirley Helen Reidel to Mr. JAMES ANTHONY SEBOLD, JR., on the 22nd of June, 1957, Rock­ville Centre, New York. 
Well, wc*re moving right along, we're up to July of 1957 when BILL EGGERS sent us this nice let­ter. 
. . . "Vfas transferred down here the latter part of April to act as a. sales representative for my em­ployers. The Lamson & Sessions Co. Bought a house, IJt Huntleigh Dr., Kirkwood (St. Louis) 22, Mo.. and brought my family down on June 3. We're now settled and looking for company, which should be easy to find at this location. Our street centers on Routes 66 and 67 b^-passes, just west of St. Louis proper. There is plenty of lemonade on tap for the kids. 
"Due to the move, was unable to make BOB ROHLING*s wedding on June 1 in Council Bluffs, Iowa, but understand JOHN DON'NELLY was to be an usher. 
"Don't know whether I ever announced my mar­riage April U, 1955, to the former Nancy Auer of Lakewood, Ohio. We now have two children: Richard Alan (Dick), February 16, 1956; Elizabeth Ann (Beth), February 16, 1957. This might be con­sidered planned parenthood, and as of this date none expected next Februarj-." How did subsequent Februarics work out. Bill? 
EUGENE V.ANDEN BOOM, JR., wrote to tell the birth of his son, James Hugh on June II, 1937. His address back then was &H0 Paseo in Kansas City 10, Mo. 
Rosemarie and RALPH HOLMES sent a nice note telling us that their eldest boy Bill now has a five-month-old brother, Da\id Brian, who was the "New Year's Baby" in the Duluth-Superior area, bo.n 12:07 Jan. 1, 1958. 
Ralph sa>'s that he has left the teaching fields and will enter professional scouting with the Boy Scouts of America this fall. He begins with a six-weeks' training period at the Schiff Scout Reserva­tion at Mendham, N. J., Sept. 9. Sorry we didn't get this in sooner Ralph so any of your friends in the area might have been able to look you up. 
Now We arc practically up to current news. JIM CARBERRY sent an interesting letter which we shall quote in its entirety. 
*-To judge by the 1950 notices in the ALUMNUS magazine one would think us to be extinct. (You know the reason for that now, don't you, Jim?) As I have not written for several years I thought perhaps a few lines might prov'oke an avalanche cf response. 
"Since leaving X. D. I have accomplished nothing in the way of altering my marital status, which is to say I am still collecting and reviewing applica­tions from now not-so-young ladies. Thus I am an unsuccessful member of the class as judged by the standards of my old friends, those prolific lads of 438 Ho\%-ard. Between JOE DURKIN and TONY DEBAGGIS this world is richer by some half dozen children. Outstanding scholars of the Class of '50 will no doubt remember Joe and Tony. As a group wc were often seen and heard conducting seminars on Proust, Maritain and the Brothers Haig at \-arious South Bend watering depots. JOE DURKIN is now a school principal in Brookfield, Mass., while Tony is in charge of the out patient psychia­tric clinic at the Boston VA office. New England men of '50 in need of a lecture against progressive education or a head shrinkage may feel free to visit with these gentlemen. 
"Those of the '55 reunion (has anyone received a bill from N. D. for the costs associated -^vith the reconstruction of Badin Hall) may recall that at that time I was the only non-working member of the class. With a \*iew toward raising the average 
• class income above $37.50 per week I finally picked up my PhJ). at Yale in June, *57. At that time I entered the work orbit as research chemical engi­neer at the DuPont Engineering Research Labora­tory. I ^vould welcome visits from classmates who might wander out to the Experimental Station (hould they ever be isolated in 'VVilmtngton." 
A real long letter from GEORGE DcKIME came 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March, J939 59 
just the other day with the added notation "Dick. sec u-hat you can do to spark up tlie notes for '50." Well Georse, that's just wliat we're trjnng to do this time, and your letter certainly is a huge help. 
George writes "as for m>'self, my wife and four 
sons liave been li^Tng in Park Forest, Illinois, for 
the last two years. We were transferred here after 
3 three-year stay in South Bend and Monroe, Mich­
 am still with Scars and extremely happy in my 
new assignment as a buyer for our retail and mail 
order stores all over the countr>'. Am buying fash­
ion mercliandjsc nnd this affords mc many trips to 
the East and AVcst and it's these trips that give 
me tlic cliancc to run into X. D. men. 
"Last month I \-isited Betty Ann and BILL DEN­NING in A\'ashington, D. C. Bill is with the U. S. State Department in tiic education di\'ision. His last trip in September brought him to Montreal where he intcr\iewed a number of \ice-chanccIlors from various universities all over the world who were tr>-ing to Wsit our schools In the U. S. It was an interesting experience for Bill. . . even more so when he talked to one man whose greatest desire was to spend a few da>-s at the campus of the famous Notre Dame University*. Bill has two daughters. , . Patricia and AIar>' Ann. 
"TERRY ARMSTRONG is living in Brookl>-n Heights, N,Y.. and working with the production end of Schrafft's Chocolates. Tliis is a change from the thousands of interesting places that Terry \'i5­hed during his tour with the State Dept. as a cou­rier. I sliall sec Terr>' in New York December I and will find out from him a lot more news about our men in that arca­
"PHIL .AQUINO is tcacliing elementary grades in the Utica, N.Y., public school s\-stem. Phil has received his masters in Political Science from Notre Dame and has recently earned another degree in education from Oneonta State Normal. He goes into the education field well qualified and am happy to report that he is extremely happy. 
"Saw BOB ALFERS last year while in Cincin­nati and Bob was the father of four or fix'c sons. . . one set of twins in there somewhere. Alfers looked as he did in the college years. . . not a day older. Bob was working as an accountant in a large elec­trical plant 5uch as \\'cstin*;housc or General Elec­tric. . . can't remember which one. 
"Spent an evening with CY NEFF who is linng in the Cleveland suburbs, and at the time I saw him and Dot they had four children. Cy is work­ing with his brother Tom who also lives in Cleve­land. >rost of you will remember Cy because he was the most efiicient newspaper boy in Morrissey Hall in *47 and M8. His papers were bigger and better. 
"For those of you who knew BILL DONIGAX who spent a year at Notre Dame, well Bill trans­ferred ttt Duke University, graduated and married the coach's daughter. He spent a few years in Atlanta. Gi.. and Dunedin, Fla., representing the Old Republic Insurance Co. Just recently Bill went into business for himself in a collegiate sportswear line bordering the campus of the University of Florida. He's bound to be making loads of money . . . these college kids knov\' how to spend papa's money. 
"FRANK YACOBI. '49, Is a merchandise man­ager In the Sears Joliet, III., store. Frank has five children, four bo>*5 and a girl. 
**BILL ENSIGN, sociologist, linguist, professor, probation ofHcer. author and father is IMng In Toledo, OJiIo. and doinir all those things mentioned above. In addition Bill was the drum major at Notre Dame for the vears 1949 and 1950. 
"\1sited tv-th ED A^'L\VARD, '48. of Kansas City, last fall. Ed is still single and here's a chance for those of you who have sisters looking for a good prospect. Ed is practicing law and looks prosperous. He can afford to smoke 25c cigars if that means an^^thing. 
"Ran «mack Into CHUCK PERRIN In the Sears State Street store In Chicago. Chuck is manager of the Chicago Af\A club in Peoria and has eight children with a ninth on the way, 
"Talked to PACKY BUTLER on the phone this morning. He is now with the Allstate Insurance Co. as an adjuster. He's married and has one little boy. After Notre Dame Packy went on to North­western La^v school to get his LL.B. 
"Saw my old friend RAV LAMMERS at the Sunny Italy Cafe in South Bend just before the sad but true defeat of N. D. by Purdue. Ray is still in the advertising business in Flndlay, Ohio, and is the father of four sons. Man, look at the potential N. D. men 12-15 years from now. 
"HOWTE CHITTENDEN, *49, is also assodatcd with Scars and works just one floor below mc. Howie married Pat O'Connor of St. Mar>"'s and tlie 
THEODORE T- GORE, '50 Apostle of the "Pack Age" 
If the newspaper's printed word main­tains its supremacy as an advertising medium over electronic competition its suc­cess %vill be largely due to the determined efforts of publishing c-xecuttves to introduce bold new techniques to a tired old indus­try'. An outstanding example of this latter-day pioneering is T. T. "Ted" Gore, a young Florida newspaperman whose revolu­tionary "Ad-Wrap" idea is, to com a phrase, literally sweeping the countrj'. 
Since graduation Ted has worked in X'arious phases of his family's publisliing business, rising to assistant to the general manager of the Fort Lauderdale Daily News—a perennial national prize winner—• and recently to the \'ice-prcsidency of its parent, the Gore Pubh'shing Co. Now he has set up a separate company, Ad-Wrap Enterprises, P. 6 . Bo.\ 131, Fort Lauder­dale, Fla. 
"Ad-Wrap" is a brilliant new merchan­dising concept which combines promotional gimmicks, sample distribution and news­paper advertising in one simple package— so ingenious that one wonders how its pos­sibilities could have been overlooked for so long. Instead of using a rubber band or trick fold on the home edition, the news­paper carrier delivers his papers encircled by colorful six-inch paper bands. These gummed hoopla-hoops (patent-named "ad­wraps") bear a full-color ad plus a premium offer and/or free sample attached. Large advertising spreads inside the newspaper and point-of-sale promotional follow-up com­plete the campaign in' any given area. 
No ad-fad, "Ad-Wrap" has been field-tested with newspapers throughout the Southland since its introduction last fall— with some spectacular results. The first tests were conducted with the Daily News by the Young & Rubicam ad agency to introduce Johnson & Johnson's "Band-Aid Sheer Strips." The process is adaptable to soaps, notions, dehydrated foods and mixes. 
N. D. library. They have two boys and one girlj and are living^ In ^Vheaton, 111. 
"n' O FATIGATI, '48, is still living in CuddJT^ Pa,, and getting fat and prosperous running a'l tavern and a restaurant. Understand he can buyl out a fleet of Cadillacs if he wanted to. This Isi the result of saring and banking the first dollar he made." 
Here as secretary- might I inject a bit more news about Ivo. After being sent out of Seoul when the North Koreans attacked it, Ivo spent some time In Afala>*a with the State Dept. He finally came home and was married In the Log Chapel in the fall of '56 to Eleanor, whose maiden name I can't recall. DON MURPHY hobbled through the ceremony as best man on crutches with a broken knee incurred during some high spirited water skiing. Ivo and Eleanor have one cliild that we've heard about ai]^, I do believe it was a son. Tlie>" keep busy not onf;-' with the restaurant business but understand they opened a g^Ift shop that is doing a thriving' business also. Ivo did own a brick>'ard too but think he sold that enterprise a while back. Now back to GEORGE DcKIME's letter. 
"During my many trips to and through Indian­apolis, I tried to make contact with BOfi and JfM WELCH, but only to be told they were not at home. Each Is in business for himself and doing 1 well, as might be e.\peclcd. I'll bet you Bob Is still smoking those big cigars. 
"During a trip to the northwest In the spring I ran Into BOB MORTENSEN, '32, who is running a shoe department in our Scars set-up. Bob is oiw finally from Michigan but loves the green nortK / ; west country*. Bob and his family arc making Scat-| tie their home. 
"While waiting for a flight out of the Dayton air-' port, DR. LOU Hv\LEY was there waiting for his wife to come In. Had a short cliat with him. 
*'In loosing I want to make mcntiott here of one 
Notre Dame man who needs prayers of all of us because of a verv' dreadful disease he has contract­ed. His chances to survive arc slight. . . and my greatest tribute to this young Notre Dame man is this. . . that he was a friend alu'a>'s and tfie least I could do is soliat your prayers. 
"For those men from the Class of '50. . . let's do something to spark up the space alloted DICK HxVHN, our class secretary*. And let him knou<; your \%'hereabouts and what-abouts. I in partlcula;^'/ would like to know what ever happened to E^^L "SHINE" GARAFOLA. . . Is he getting fat and rich in Stamford? Where are PETE SHEEHAN, PHIL O'CONNOR, DON GRE^WES, FRANK DE LA VINA, soup y aVMPBELL, GALE BARTER and the hosts of those who made life at Notre Dame so pleasant. 
"For those of you who have any information ii-hatsoe\-er wUl you drop mc a postcarti and tell me what's what? I'm living at 9 McCarthy Road, Park Forest, III. 
"P.S. Another old crony, GENE TUNNEY, '49, lives in Park Forest. We ride the commuter trains together. He's practlang law and teaching at De Paul University evenings. Gene, too, has a famil#l, of four." ^^ 
Tlianks so much for all the ne%vs, George. That was some letter. It gives the rest of you something to shoot at. 
No\*i" for a few extraneous things I dug up while rummaging around the desk. One Is a clipping from the South Bend Tribune with the head "Five Foleys Become Eight in Single Day." It seems that ED FOLEY and his wife whose family consisted of Eddie, Kerin, and Debbie, gave birth to a set of triplets, •nmolhy Patrick, Kathleen Margaret, and Mar>' Alice. This was back in August of '56. IVhat's the status quo now, Ed? 
GENE BITTNER is now coach at the Univcraitj^ of Tampa. He and his wife are the parents o-./ three girls, the youngest being Margaret Mary, bom on July 18. (The only trouble is, this paper doesn't tell me what year!) 
GERRY R^VMSBERGER has been named head line coach in football and head track coach at a high school in St. Petersburg, Fla. He and his wife arc the parents of three girls and one boy, 
PATRICK A. DelGR.\NDE, Pittsford, N.Y„ re­ceived a D.D.S. degree from New York University at Commencement exercises in June. (Again I must apologize for not knowing the year.) 
Wc have an announcement fiere from U'arrcn Brothers Roads Co., In Cambridge, Mass., announc­ing the appointment of ROBERT E, SAVERS as manager of the spin test division. In this positioi^; he is responsible for all engineering and sales func­tions in the division. Is this recent or past history. Bob? 
ROBERT J. SIPPEL is (or was, as the case may 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 
be) a staff engineer in the IBM Product develop­

ment I-ahoratory at Poughkecpsie. He's engaged in ^h e logical design of computer control systems for ^Farious IBM electronic computers. 
DON MURPHY, '49, our old buddy, finally pulled up stakes and left the family homestead. Don moved to Phoenix ^vith the new* Motorola op­eration out there. He is now a home owner as well as a boat owner and water skiing enthusiast. Still single and MOST eligible. (This is beginning to sound like a matclimaking column with all the bachelors placed on the market this issue.) His twin brother Bob Is still with Boeing out in Seattle, the father of four wee ones. Bob was doing a lot of work on the 707 jet. 
Personally, the Hahn tribe has moved east, now 

being located in Glen Rock, N. J. Dick is man­^figer of the engineering department with United ^Rtates Testing Company in Hobokcn. An excellent 
testing lab, I might add. (Put so many plugs in for Sears we may as well beat the drums a little closer to home.) We'd love to hear from any of you who happen to be in the area. \Vc still haven't started going out and mucing with our new world much as yet. For I arrived here on August 12 and our fifth child arrived on September 2. What with new house, new baby, new job, we've been hump­ing. The new arri^-al was a girl, Elizabeth Theresc, which gives us four girls and one boy. Someone has to provide wives for all the future Notre Dame men. 

So now, come on fellows, start sending in those fetters so this project once started can continue. ^Lct's make the *50 newsletter something I won't 
have to apologize to my friends for. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 
PHILIP A. DEL.VNEY is working for the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. Phil is mar­ried and has three children. 
ROBERT T. DUDDY is organizing a tour to Rome, Italy, for the 1960 01>'mpics with several prominent OljTnpic stars as guests. For details wTitc Bob at 532 South 16th St., Reading, Pa. 
JOHN DURKIN has a new address in Milwau­kee and wishes to be listed with the Class of *oO rather than his degree class of '49. John is a sales coordinator for Milprint, Inc., in Mihvaukcc. He and wife Joan have three daughters, Mar>', 
rVnne and Colleen. 

• GEORGE L.\BDIK has \%-rittcn a letter describ­ing his life since graduation, an absorbing tale of exciting travels interspersed with harrowing periods of ner\*ous collapse, probably a delayed reaction from W. W, II. Excerpts: "On St. Bonavcnture's feast day (July 14, 1950) I left for Scotland, where I hoped to continue my studies ^'informally'* — meaning, I hoped to live there on my Army com­pensation ($65 a month), to write, to use the local libraries and to "gcstatc". . . Going \'ia Canada (three days in Quebec), I shipped to England, spent a week in London, thence to Edinburgh. After about three weeks I made the acquaintance of a Dominican priest. Father Anthony Ross (now, I understand, an Abbot), who invited me and two 
Aarospective students of Edinburgh University on a 
-"three-week hike through the Highlands. During the hike I learned I could easily enroll at the Univer­sity and later did just that. . . Two months later I escaped the tiring discipline by making the Holy Year Pilgrimage to Rome. . ." George describes his return to scliool, a breakdou'n and four months in a mental hospital. **In October again I re­turned to school, only to finally give it up. At Christmas I unloaded maJlbags at the railroad for some extra money, then went south to London where I spent four montlis in desultory reading, writing and sightseeing. . . King George VI died, and I visited Westminster Abbey and viewed his 
^Miatafalque. About April X felt myself breaking 
^Rlown again and on the invitation of my former doclor-ps>-chIatrist returned to the Royal Edinburgh Hospital for an extended checkup. HaWng made arrangements to go home, I returned to London, boarded ship and arrived in New York May 13.'* George went to Washington, D, C , passed a Civil Service exam but was turned down on the morning he reported for work. The years since have been spent mostly at Allcntown State Hospital and the 
U. S, Veterans Hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He is re­covering fully and keeps occupied with several projects, including letters to the press and a pri­vate "intuitive'* translation of Cerv-antcs' Don Quixote. 
JACK MICHAELREE has been elected county Afudge for Effingham County, 111, Jack and his wife ^larlly n reside at 809 Park St., in Effingham, 
HAL XL PL.AMONDON has been appointed gen­eral manager of Gould-Kelly Travel, Inc. Travel seems to be a class trademark. 
SALINA — Part of the throng at a meet­ing of the biggest little club in the N.D. nct%vork, held at the Al Schwartz ranch, Salina, Kansas, last summer. 
VAL REISIG has been named assistant to the 
advertising manager in the plastic of Eastman 
Chemical Products, Inc., in New York City. Val 
has been with Union Carbide and the Army Chem­
ical Corps. 
BOB RUETZ, his wife Pierrette and daughter 
Dcnisc arc in Tulsa, Okla., where Bob is on the 
music facultv of Benedictine Heights College. Two 
other N. D. men, BOB M/\NNIX and BERNIE DE 
PRIMO, arc also on the faculty. 
Mr. and .Mrs. R.\Y SULLtVxVX had a fourth 
child and first son, Michael Joseph, last fall. Their 
three girls are Maureen, 5; Patricia, 3, and Nan, 2. 
News from two geologists: HAROLD SHEERAN has been with Atlas Powder Co., and ILVY THROCKMORTON and Geologic iVssociatcs have been busy with several bridge sites for the inter­state highway program. 
PETER J. TOM.VSHEK, a former member of 
the Denver Register editorial staff will be getting 
79 cents a day "mad money" for the next two 
years as a member of a four-man team on a pio­
neer lay missionar>' endeavor in Morella, Mexico. .\ 
lay apostle of long standing, Pete has been training 
at the Mission Itistttutc at Fordham and with the 
^Association for International Development (AID). 
IOC I Robert J. Klingenberger 
•'• ^ 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
ED SULLIV/VN, U Center Lane, Hamburg. N,Y., 
and his \rife Luc>' announced the arri\-:d of Gregor>' 
^fichacl on Nov. 8. He has a sister Eileen born 
14 months before. 

BILL DALTON, 63 Rice Ave., Northboro, Mass., and his wife Pat announced the birth of Matthew-Paul Oct. 8. He has brothers \\'illiam Henry, Jr.,­age 5, Michael Patrick, age 2, and a sister, Beth Ellen, age 4, 
BOB DARLING, 937 Hackett St., Bclolt, Wis., writes that he Is a machine designer for the Gard­ner Machine Co. in Beloit. Also that he was mar­ried to Miss Donna Bresnehan of Beloit on June 30, 1956, and has two sons, Robert Patrick, bom April 22, 1957, and Thomas Neil, born September 11, 1958. Also Bob writes that JIM LA CASA was married to Miss Joan Rizca on September 6, 1958, and has taken over the management of the La Casa Engineering Corp. after his father's untimely death se\'eral years ago. 
Received a call from GENE JOHNSON, 6&W Arcadian Highway, E\'ans\'ine, Ind., while he was in Fort AVayne, He Is practicing law ^vith Walker & AValker and has three children. Also Gene told me that JOE EGER is with Esso in Baton Rouge, La, DAVE NAUGHTON is the assistant county attomc>- in Duluth, Minn., and JOE HARRIS is practicing law In E\*ansville. 
I received quite a few Christmas cards this year, including greetings from the following: 
ED CECH, 1025 Lancaster Ave., Syracuse 10, N,Y., who ^vrites that he received his M.A, from Indiana in Slavic languages and literature and is presently working as a Russian translator at Syrs'­cuse University. He hopes to return to Indiana U. to begin work on his Ph.D. Ed reports that he has run into KEN THOREN and PAT McATEER a couple of times in New York, and they are look­ing and feeling fine. 
BUD HERR, his wife Barbara, Tim, Susan and 

Steve, Chats%vorth, IH. TOM LOGAN and his wife Carol. BOB EDMONDSEN, his wife Mary and son 
John. Bob has been transferred to a subsidiary of Time, Inc., about six months ago and Is now busi­ness manager of Printing Developments, Inc. 
JIM McGUIRE (Holstein, Iowa), his wife ^[ary and his two daughters Peggy and Molly. RAY MILLER, his wife and four children, Kath­leen, ^aron Ann, Michael and Ray Tommy. STEVE MARTIN and his wife Kathy, Hotel Bas­sert. Apt. 843, 98 Montague, Brooklyn, N.Y. 
DON SONDAG, his wife Liz, children Anne and Michael John. (Michael was bom August 4, 1958. Don began a residency in Ofastetrics-Gynecology in July at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, Ga. Tlie Sondags live at 140 Wllivee Dr., Decatur, Ga.) 
PAT B.\RRETT and his %vife Joan, 5916 Goodman St., Merrian, Kans., write that Pat will get his ^f.D. in June and has been elected president of his class. Congraulations, Pat, let me know where you decide to intern. 
P.AT O'SULLIVAN and his wife Xfaureen, Port Huron, Mich. AL GUARNIERI, his wife Ann, and the children Robbie, Pattle and Johnnie, 'Warren, Ohio. BILL ANHUT and his wife Mary Claire, 17350 Pennington Dr., Detroit 21, illchigan. 
HANK M.ADDEN, his wife Sally and their three children, 120 Oakmont Lane, Signal Mountain, Tenn. Hank has been put in charge of quality con­trol this year at American La\-a. 
FRxVNK BOLLER, his wife Anne and the chil­dren, Francis Joseph, 6; Mary Clare, 5; Marian Joy, 4; Michael Louis, *2V2, and Charles Anthony, 6 months. Frank is chief of operations analysis. Avionics Division of Aerojet-General Corporation in Azusa, Calif. Frank, I don't have ED WAGNER*S address, but let mc ask him to write you in the column. 
BILL WHITESIDE, his wife Eileen, and children Billy, Mike and Eileen Ann. 4073 Thompson Rd„ Lafayette Hills, Pa. 
CHUCK LUECKE, his wife Marge, and their children, Alicia, 4; Chuckle, 3, and Rob B., 17 months. Chuck is in business with his father in Freeport, 111. 
MATTY O'DONNELL, his wife Peggy and their daughters Patty and Kathy. Matty is in AVashing­ton, D.C., and writes that he has decided to stay in the J..-\.G. corps of the Army. 
ttARVEY O'NEILL and his wife Nancy. HARRY HANIG,^', his »rife Marie and their son Brian. 
DICK MacDONALD, his wife Rosemary and their five children, three girls and t^vo boys, 2136 Lake­side Dr., Louisrille, Ky. George Is w^th Shell Oil Co. doing real estate and sales work for them, George writes that he often sees JOE H.ARMON, who is a salesman with Holliday Sales Engineering Co. and is assigned to Nashville, Tenn.; and JOE LAUBER is now a captain in the Army at Fort Knox. Joe received his M.D. prior to going into 
From the Alumni Office: The doings of other '51 men as reported by Pro­fessor RON RICH in the Cbss of 1951 Chemical Engineers' Ne^vsletten LEE BRO\VN (Chem Engi­neering Dept., U. of Delaware, Newark, Del.) should have received his Ph.D. by now. He reports DICK EVERETT was transferred to Louisville last winter. He gives ED DILLON'S address as 1823 Bunting Dr., North Augusta, S.C, and writes that Ed is neither married nor a "Reb" yet. According to Lee, BILL McNALLY now has two little ones in ^Vilmington, Del. Still a sailor, Lee finished 47th in a field of 59 in last year's midwinter Lightning National Championship Regatta at St. Peters­burg, Fla. JOE EGER and wife Dotty have two boys and two girls down la Baton Rouge, BILL PRINDIVILLE has a year-old daughter named Sharon Marie, He and BOB SIERON are in the dei.'elopment dept. of Amoco Chemicals Corp. in' Chicago, ED KOVAL got his M.S. from Illinois last February. He and May have two children. JI.M CARBERRY (Ph.D,, Yale, '57) U wth du-Pont in Wihnington, Del, JOHN CARP and Betty Ann of East Stroudsburg, Pa., visited the campus last fall, JOHN MILEWSKI (Fair Lawn, N.J.) is with Reaction Motors, should be getting^ his M,S. from Ste\-ens Institute of Technology. REV. REGI-
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 61 
NALD DOHERTY, O.P., is in Rome studying for an S.T.D. at the Pontificiun Athenaeum Angelicum, will return next October. JOE GALLOWAY, still at Ansco, got a ne«" boy, Stephen Francis, last spring. JIM KOHN of South Bend, honct-mooncd in Bermuda last September. BOB B.^UKNECHT, \%ifc Dorene and daughters Linda and Janet arc happy in Wisconsin. Bob missed JOE G.-VLLOWAY when he went to Madison for the Purdue game. 
Geologists reporting in through the department's Nc\«lcttcr include D.AN BRENNAX who is back in Oklahoma City after scboolms with Shell and a Ph.D. from Arizona in 1957; JLM JANSEX is do­ing petrography at Republic Steel's research center near Parma, O.; OTTO KOPP, with a Ph.D. from Columbia, is teaching Mineralogy at- the University of Tennessee in Knowille; UTLL ODEM was pro­moted to dinsion development geologist for the Cali­fornia Company in New Orleans; and D.•\^'E SMITH ^pent last summer doing IGV research on Fletclicr's Ice Island in the -Arctic Ocean but win­ters at Dartmouth teaching several courses in gcol­og>\ 
WILLLAM GREIF was doubly honored when he was elected as joint state representative from the E%'ansviJIc, Ind,, area. Novspapcrs named Bill's as the top family of all successful candidates and pic­tured Bill's wife with their six children: Mary Kay, 8; Barbara, 6; Anne, 5; Larr>', 4; Danny, 2, and Claire, about six months. Mar>' Kay has hopes of becoming a page in the Stale Legislature. Bill's wife sax-s she was confident her husband would win but Was surprised at the plurality he rolled up. 
DR. JAMES H. GRIESMER has been appointed staff mathematician at the research center of the International Business Machines Corp., Vorktown Heights, N.Y. Jim has a Ph.D. from Princeton and will %vork on improving IBM's computers. 
ARTHUR A. REISER, JR., was licensed to prac­tice law in Illinois by the Illinois Supreme Court. Art worked as an insurance agent while getting 
his LL.B. from the John Marshall Law School. 
Sliooting was completed in December on the first feature motion picture ever produced in Washing­ton, D.C. One of three ex-ncwsmcn who produced the film is JOHN A. STUPALSKY, winner of Uie South Bend Tribune's F- A. Miller Award for "ex­ccllcnce in practical journalism." John worked on the Tribune slafF and for newspapers and magazines in Florida and Georgia before going into public re­lations in Washington. He is a partner in a new movie firm and director of promotion for his first film venture, "Dead to the World," a m>-stcry thriller with a Washington locale. The movie cost only $200,000 and was filmed in actual locations with relatively unknown stage performers in the starring roles. Tlic film has been released, and John hopes it will crack the big-time as a **sleepcr." John himself has a w*alk-on role as a reporter in Capitol Hill treason hearings whicli are the key scenes of the movie. You can help a classmate by seeing "Dead to the World" when it comes to your 
town, 
Tlic \^crj- Rev. MSGR. HARRY J. ^V'ELP, editor of Tlie Messenger, official weekly publication of the diocese of Covington, Ky., and English professor at Villa Madonna College in Covington, was clc­\*atcd to the rank of papal cliambcrlain in one of the last official acts of the late Pope Pius XII. Msgr. Welp got his M.A. in English with the Class of •51. 
1952 Harry L. Buch ^ Board of Trade Bldg. Wheeling, ^Vest Virginia 
From the .Alumni Office: Marv- Sharon was born last August 21 to Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH S. BOWLING, JR. Joe is the brother of BERNIE BOWLING, new mayor of St. Matthews, Ky. Joe has four cliildrcn and Bernie eight. Between tbem the brothers have nine can­didates for Notre Dame. DR. PAUL J. FATU.M has been accepted at the Mayo Clinic for a fellou-ship in Anesthesia begin­ning thb July. FRANK J. HAENDLER has been appointed a career Foreign Scr\"ice officer by President Eisen­hoivcr- Tlie appointment makes him a vice consul and a secretary in the diplomatic scr\-ice. Anne Mildred was bom to Mr. and Mrs. DAVID WALTER MORIARTY, JR., On the Green, Old Mystic, Conn. TTiis is their second child. P.\TRICK G, NEVILLE has been appointed a sales representative for CIB.A. Pharmaceutical Prod­ucts, Inc., in tlic Buffalo, N-Y., tcrritorv'. Pat has been with the Marine Corps., S>'K'ania Electric Products, Inc., and the .Armour Laboratories. 
62 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Notes from the Geology Club Newsletter: BOB CARVILL E is a petroleum geologist with Reynolds Mining Company; KARL HOOVER is still with the Ohio Geological Sur\ey; GEORGE MOORE, with a Ph.D. from Indiana University is working for the California Co. out of Billings, Mont., and PAUL RAYMOND has been transferred to the newly formed Dallas division of the Texas Co. 
Thomas W. Rccdy 
1953 
337 Wagner Road Northfield, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: 
RAYMOND J. DITTRICH, JR., was selected by the faculty of the University of Michigan Law School as the recipient of the Howard B. Coblcntz Prize. The prize is a^^'arded to the student mem­ber of the Michigan Law Review editorial staff \fhosc work has been most satisfactory. Ray is now with the legal department of Cargill, Inc., of Min­neapolis, Nfinn. He resides near Minneapolis with lib wife and two daughters, Lisa and Claire. 
THOMAS £. DOHERTY has been promoted to manager of the commercial department in the In­dianapolis office of Indiana Bell Telephone Co. Prcriously Tom had been manager at Crawfords­vitle and staff superv*isor and public office manager at Indianapolis. 
JOHN R. FORTINO has been appointed field sales training manager for Zenith Radio Corpora­tion in Chicago. 
After a rapid succession of marriage, military' ser^-icc and law school, FRANCIS J. GERLITS has settled at I3I8 Wilmette, Wilmettc, III. 
Navy Lieut. RICHARD ^L RODGERS, JR., has discovered what a distinctive thing is a Xotrc Dame class ring. His ring was returned to him last fall after a year and a half of being "misstns in action. He lost the ring at Miho Air Base, Miho, Japan, tlie night of Marcli 30, 1927. He had made an emergency landing (with one engine out) that morning. Tlie Japanese and Air Force personnel didn't have parts to repair the engine, and it looked as if he and his crew would be stranded, broke, for a week. But a Coast Guard crew came to the rescue with tools, spare parts, etc. Dick, his co-pilot and navigator celebrated in the local offi­cers' club and again were obliged to the Coast Guard (a C. G. admiral bought all the drinks). Dick flew the plane out next morning. The make­shift engine got them over the mountains to Iwa­kunt, ivhcrc llicy Jiad the engine cliangcd. TIic third vote of thanks was due when Captain Muzzy, commander of the Far East section, sent to the .-Uumni office for the identity of the bearer of a ring engraved *'R.M.R." and found in Japan. 
Diggings from the Geology Newsletter: TERRY BRITT is still working for Richfield Oil out of Durango, Colo.; JIM McNITT is no%v with the California Division of Mines, completing a Ph.D. thesis by mapping mountains near Frisco; BOB STRALEY is doing seismic work for Sliell and taking courses at L.S.U. 
JUNE I2I3I4 

Engineering at Notre Dame as a nuclear engineer­ing "expert." Last June I was promoted to the rank of assistant professor. I am still a bachelo^ and live togeUier with CHARLIE ALLEN who afiiigl this last graduation sports fancy Ph.D. letters after his name. Our other comrade, CARL BIVER, who lived with us for a long time decided to go to work at Argonne and live in his home town of Elmhurst, 
111. He met there Miss May Ann Barringer who, September 13 last, became Mrs. Carl J. Biver. Carl and his bride reside now at 22 Ardmorc in Villa 
l*ark. III. He attends part time the 2<orth\*eslern 
University studying for the doctorate in physics. 
"PHIL LOPRESTI teaches electrical engineering at Notre Dame and has his office right next to mine in the Engineering building. He received his mas­ter's in June after a delay for whicfi Uncle Sam is to blame. He is also getting ready to tie a ''"ot in Janiiar\-. t?]^ 
"RON VARDIMxVN, taking time from his duties as a custodian of the Engineering building passed his Ph.D. candidacies with flying colors. He should receive his degree in about a year. Just before the .•\rmy game 1 ran into PETE HIGGINS and BILL NESBITT, and at another occasion, into FRANK RAITH and spouse. Unfortunately it was almost kickoff time and I could not extract too much in­formation from them except hello and good-bye. 
"About a week ago I decided to clicck with the Alumni office on the campus to sec in what way I could help to make the reunion a success. I had a nice chat with John Laughlin, who informed mc about the functions of the local committee, which would cooperate with the Alumni office and th'^^K class sccretarx' to have cver\-lhing running smoothl>^ for the reunion weekend. As far as I know, sucft a committee was not yet organized. I have, how­ever, talked to several of our classmates here and they arc more than willing to help when the time comes. I have also checked the reunion list and discovered that 33 persons list tbcir addresses in this vicinity. Some of them I know are not here any more. There are also a few around yet that list their home addresses. I will try to contact everybody and I think that it trill be an easy task to dioosc from these a group that trill voluntarily give their best in organizing and seeing through all the plans before anyone else arrives. On my part I am willing to spend as much time as I can to make this the best reunion weekend ever. ^K 
"Please let mc know some of your ideas about our work here. Wc have plenty of time to iron out the details, but I would like to start on the general plans as soon as possible. As I understand it, our main responsibilities will be: I. To prepare the class dinner on Friday evening, 2. To help you in the choice of the class chaplain, 3. To make arrangements for the class Mass on Saturday morning, and 4. To make arrangements for a "So­cial Hour" on Saturday afternoon. I have several ideas already but I would like to hear from you before spelling them out." 
With interest such as this I could only gladly accept Connie's offer to be chairman of our reunion and be has done a bang-up job so far. He is beinyi^ assisted in his work by CHARLIE ALLEN and he » also planned to contact some of our other class­mates in the South Bend area. On his way home for Christmas vacation, Connie stopped by in Day­ton and gave me a full report on the progress to date. In a December 16 meeting with tlie .•Mumnt office some of the definite plans were announced. We arc fortunate to be accommodated in Alumni Hall and we will share this hall \rith the Class of 
'49 that will be celebrating their tenth reunion. However, the sharing of the hall is contingent upon our rcgi:tration figure. Tlie Alumni office antici­pates only 200 registrations from our class but Connie and I feel that we will have little or no^^ 
difficulty in nearly doubling this number. After all; ^ 
i^swmm 
IOC ^ George A. Pflauni, Jr. 
• '^ ^ 1705 Harvard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
Gentlemen, please consider the following letter from CONNIE SZUBERT of 54800 Uy Road, South Bend, Ind., quite closely. It will show you how our reunion program got off tlie ground and I will summarize after it for you the progress that we have made to date. Keep in mind that this column is being irritten on December 22 and that by the time you read it our plans will be more formalized. 
"In June of 1956 I received a master degree in mechanical engineering, after that I went through one year course in The International School of Nuclear Science and Engineering at Argonnc Na­tional Laboratory*. Upon its completion I have joined the staff of the Department of Mechanical there were 1,000 graduates so wc see no reason why 40% of them won't be back to their reunion. Do you see anything I'n your own personal plans that would contradict our thinking? We hope not, be­cause wc are seriously counting on attendance from each and every one of you. 

During our meeting at Christmas, Connie and I roughly outlined the program for the week end which is as follows. Friday, June 12, will be de­voted to registration of the class and that evening we will hold a class dinner whicli is tentatively planned as an outside affair on the courtyard at .Mumni Hall. The list of food ;ind refreshments 
is so long that I won't tr>* and repeat it here. Sat­
urday morning wc are arranging for a Class Ma^-jA 
the celebrant and the location is yet to be an-* 
nounced. During the day Saturday the Alumni As­
sociation will be conducting their annual golf tour­
nament for all inlercstcd reunion attendants. In the afternoon there will be special open house pro­grams in each one of the colleges aiTording cvery­a ^ an opportunity to visit with professors and ^pssmatcs and perhaps get some of the things off our chests that we wanted to. say five years ago. On Saturday night a general Alumni dinner for all in attendance will be held. On Sunday morning, Sacred Heart Church will be the scene of the an­nual Alumni Mass. 
Of course, hilarity, hcllos and harassment of and with your old friends fill- out the balance of this fun-packed week end. You won't want to miss it — 
M>be there, be there, be there! 
I have done some spade work in different areas of the country to organize interested groups for a mass exodus to South Bend over the week end of June 12. The men that I am listing below arc the class reunion co-ordinators in the areas indicated, 
^•^osc contact them and find out their plans for your group's trip to the reunion. They arc: 
BOB WRIGHT. Cincinnati, Ohio; JIM HAMLIN, Morris, N.Y.; TONY PERRY, "A" -"L," Chicago. III.; BILL REYNOLDS, "M" -"Z," Chicago, III.; BILL GUILFOILE, Wisconsin; BILL MEYER, 
Pittsbumh, Pa.; JOHN REIDY, Cleveland, Ohio; TOM NOL.AN, Iowa; BOBY CHICKEY, Missouri, and JACK PITT/\S, Washington, D.C. 
You can see that this list is just a starter; if you would like to add your name to it as an area co-ordinator for this reunion, I shall be most happy to have it. Since ivriling this article I have con­tacted many other area co-ordinators and you have no doubt heard from them by now. They will be 
^Uting your cooperation in locating other class­mates in the area and encouraging them not to pass up the reunion week end. 
This is the program to date. It's being organized in your best interest and upon the firm con\-iction that you will attend. Remember, this opportunity comes only once every five years — this is the year 
— it's a long time *till I9Gt — so don't count on being at that reunion but do plan on being with us at Notre Dame on June 12, 1939. 
Since I am confronted with a generous supply of mail this month, I'll swing right in — stand by for No. I. 
"Since leaving N. D. in '54, I have spent two years in the Army and then two years at the J^raduatc School of Business Administration at Cor­^pJ| University. I received my MBA in June and since that lime, have been working for General Electric out of the marketing ser\-iccs dix-ision in New York. I spent two months in S\-racusc and have been here in Philadelphia since the end of September. Will be going to Pittsfield, Mass., next week. As you can see, they arc really keeping me on the move. It is intended that I will move about four more times and then be permanently assigned either in New York or in one of the product de­partments throughout the country*. This is very in­teresting work — during this year I will have an opportunity to be in about evcrj* phase of market­ing a man could be in. I have hopes of ending up cither in market rescarcli or production plan­nin g for one of GE's defense divisions. I think that ^ii s militar>' marketing is really fascinating. The operation here in Philly is called the Missile and Space Vehicle Department which is the prime con­tractor for all Atlas and Thor ballistic missile nose cones. Tile work I have been doing here is in product information (actually advertising and sales sales promotion). Have done some promotional work here with NBC and CBS television. Also got into assisting with the commercial on the Nov. 16 Sunday evening GE TV Tlicater. Never realized how mucli planning and preparation goes into a TV commercial. For the two minute commercial last Sunday, we spent one complete day filming, 
Retaking, and resetting the props, etc. 
^P'*In the last few months I have seen quite a few of the 'troops.' Have seen BOB PERKINS a num­ber of tmies. He's working in Baltimore for West­inghousc (of all companies!!.'.') and is hai'ing a ball for himself. He's living with three other fellows in a house — had a few of- the mates out for a partv at his house after the Nav>* game; namely, BOB N.\NAVICK (spelling?), JI.M MULL.\NE, JACK McGILL, BUZ HELFRICH, and myself. Buz, my old roomy, is a full Lt. in the Na\7 and is stationed at Norfolk as a Naw dentist. He gra­duated from Pitt Dental School in June. The same old Buz — getting balder all the time. 
f
Spent last Saturday in Reading with M.-\RTY MOORE. Marly is married and has a baby girl. |ld Marty is just the same — has as much life in im as ever. He had a gallon bottle of VO which he had ivon in a raiHe, and ivc tried our best to finish it ofT, but to no a%*ail. I have had lunch a couple of times with ED McGINN. He's certainly 
"Our future camera gives a glimpse of Jake Noonan on his way to the '54 reunion." 
a fine guy. He told me about running into you at the Statlcr, etc. It surely must have been quite a surprbc for both of you. HARV NEWQUIST, Ed's old roomy, is presently li\ing in Whiiesboro, 
N.Y. He's working for GE in Utica. Harv mar­ried the former Pat Starr, a gal from my home­town, Morris, N.Y. Believe it or not, I introduced those two and look what happened. By the way, before I forget, you requested all of us to send you our addresses for mailing purposes concerning the reunion, etc. Better send all correspondence to me at my home address: JI.M HAMLIN, P.O. Box No. 275, Morris, N.Y. As I am on the move so much I'm afraid that my mail will not catch up with me unless I have my folks receive it and forward it to me. 
"I guess that I've mentioned most of the fellows that I have come in contact with in the last few months. I guess you know that PHIL BOLIN h working in New York. Phil and I are planning on getting together for the Giants-Browns Pro game in Yankee Stadium Dec. 16. Should be a great game. BOB PERKINS b coming up for it too, so we should have a few laughs. I imagine that youVe guessed by now that I'm still single, and so far, no charming lass has "afTcctcd" me the right way. Oh well, there arc many years left in this life, I hope!" 
I also received a nice note from GEORGE KOCH, JR., from 3112 CooHdge Highway, Royal Oak, Mich. George sends the following: 
"Well, George, on August 30 I took that fatal step. I was married to the former A. Loyola Woods of Bloomftcid, N. J. Lola attended St. Elizabeth's College in North Convent, N.J., and then went on to finish her education at the Cornell School of 
Nursing in New York, graduating in June, 1957. *'I am presently working for Vickcrs, Inc., Divi­sion of Spcrry-Rand located outside of Detroit. Formerly I was a sales engineer for Hyatt Roller Bearing, Division of G.M., but went witli Vickers on July 21 in the same capacity. Sometime in the early part of next year I expect to be reassigned to another district. We managed to get down to 
"Art Hunter is caught looking forward (?) to our class's fifth year reunion on June 12, 1959." 
the Army game, going down with Esther and Jl\ t GREENWELL. Jim is working for Aimco and is. scheduled to leave for Loiusiille, Ky., as a sales­man. ^Vhile there, wc sa%v BOB GRAY, JOHN" KEINAN (who is making a career of the Marines), JOE SHELLEY, WALT DUSCHKER, PAT ROD­NEY, PHIL LOPRESTI and many others. TOM VENTRO is working for the Public Service ia Newark, N. J. He is married and presently has. one son. JOE SHELLEY is in the Marines, sta­tioned in North Carolina and will be separated in about another year. PETE HIGGINS is working for BendLx Research here in Detroit." 
George aho suggested in a P.S. that I might men­tion my activities over the past few years. I reall>­don't need much prompting to report the arrival of our second child, a daughter, .Anne Therese on October 5 of last year. Since I was discharged from the Navy, I have been in business with my father engaged in publishing the Messengers and Treasure Chest, periodical magazines that you mav­have remembered receiving in grade school. If you aren't familiar with them, I would be happy to send subscription information upon request. 
Lt. CARL ECK mustered in from Headquarters, 50th Mr Base Group (US.\FE), United Sutes Air Force, Office of the Staff Judge Advocate, APO 83, New York. N.Y. Carl has been overseas since .August, 1956, working In the capacity of legal offi­cer. His tour of duty demands his presence in. Europe until .August, 1959, so reunion attendance is out of the question for him. However, he has been appointed as the European co-ordinator for the Class of '54 Reunion. 
From 1230 W. Eha, Lima, Ohio, BOB RICH sends the following: "Just finished reading the November issue of the-
N. D. ALUMNUS and I'm just recovering from the impact of the "5 year Reunion" Class of '54. Time certainly has passed with haste. I imagine %vhcn a person is as busy as I have been since-graduation day of '54 — five years can be a rela­tively short time. 
"I'm presently employed with the Westinghouser Electric Corp. in Lima, Ohio. This area b head­s;uarters for the Small ^lolors Division. I'm a manufacturing engineer, specializing in the pro­curement and negotiation of Automated Equip­ment. So the next time the electric motor in your Laundromat or Dryer goes bad — you'll know why. We make all fractional H.P. motors for laundry equipment, fans, blowers, etc 
"I'm liring with two other bachelors in a verv~ 
nice apartment and we call our 'abode* the 1230 
Club. Any and all N. D. men (even the married 
ones) are welcome. So put my little invitation in^ 
the next ALUMNUS issue, if you will." 
I quote in full the latest piece of correspondcncc­
(?) from Lt. ED D. LEWIS e-xisting at 323 Brva 
Mawr, San Antonio 9, Texas, 
"Dere Mister FLUM, 
"It seems ony yestiday thet we got outa scool at 
ol' N. D. The lesons I wm learned there are stiL 
fresh in my bed, cspesilly those grate Englis corses, 
but I stil dont no why them others moid phun of 
Biznis Administrashun. It rilly fitted me with a 
grate cdjacation. 
"Enough of this foolishness — onward! How are-things wit youse, George A.? What do you hear from the Snake? As you probably know, your some^ time sparring partner, J. D. XLADIG.AX, is getting married. To bring you up to date on us, I submit a family tree: Ed and Helen, Sharon, age 4, Megan Mar>*, age 3, Michael Daniel, age 9 months, and Duffy — one wire-haired Terrier. The arri^'al of Mike finally restored my faith and gave me some­one cbc who wears pants—even the dog is female. I assume we will remain in this foreign land* (Texas) for the rest of my .Army tour and my eventual return to the rest of you slackers!!! We-have only (only?) 16 more months left in Sao-Antonio. (Fort Sam Houston) My principal duty lately has been defending delightful felons in Gen­
eral Court martial. So far, I am not In the stocks adc, but, with one exception, I certainly know where­to locate my former clients. 
*'I'll pass on what poop I know about our class^ mates: First Lt. ED BRODERICK and wife and girl-child. First Lt. JOE GORMLEY and wife and two girl-children are at Lockland A. F, Base here in S. A. Both are doing the same duty as I am and have somewhat shorter sentences left. 
"First Lt. TIAf O'H.AR-%, Sheila and Shanca Marie return from an all-expense-paid tour of Eu­rope this month to settle (I think) in Florida. From what I heard from him during his tour he-saw most of Europe — (like me, I saw the natives in Lawton, Okta.; EI Paso, Texas; ^^tite Sands, N.M.). I assume CHUCK SPRINKLE and BAR. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 63 
R\' REESE (who got hitched in wedlock recently) will get out at about the same time IF their RA applications arc turned down. JACK ROSSHIRT, Alana and John Leo, Jr., (good Lord!) are stUl in California. Jack has been passing bars with great case, a facility for %vliicli he was not noted in Iiis pre-grad activities. He, too, will sadly leave the Army soon unless his application for JIM 5TUB­BLER's latter-day Gestapo is approved. Upon his release, I assume tliat where I was formerly the oldest living un-graduated ROTC cadet, I will nou­be the oldest living (this is living?) First Lt. 
"JOHN STRICKROOT, de Brain, is in the JAG­AF some place in the Far East (Mar>'land, I think). Have heard next to nothing from the remainder of the gents. I think I told >-ou YATES HAFNER was stationed at Ft. Sam until a few months ago. I would like to hear from RAYMOND HOOBERT (Mickey) MORAN. The last I heard he had ser\*ed in the Army; had many diflicultics, e.g., is this tlie Army of the North, suh!, why isn*t my uniform grc>', suli? But suh, why cain't wc have componc in our C-raiJons?; tlicn got an early re­lease to continue scliool (1 suspect to run for dass oHice) and then received a special appointment by Governor Faubus as political advisor to his oppo­
nent. I remember that CHICKEY boy (last Alumni mug letter) vcr>- well — u-asn't he that tall skinny boy, the only lad to make all campus in ping-pong four straight years? 
"This really isn't much news, but it's all that has filtered across the border from the U. S. into Texas (ho-ho, now the second biggest state). Helen and I and etc arc taking leave and going to Chi­cago (wc had to reserve a cattle car) on the I5th of this month. Wc hope to attend the ND-SMU game in Dallas, so if you know of anyone going, u-c'Il pri^ably be sleeping in a potted palm in the lobby of the Statler-Hilton — look us up (or down). If you can, drop us a line, I am fast losing all contact %vith the old gang, no togetherness and all that rot, and I really like to hear about what you ore doing — strike that — how you are doing. I thought by now that you and JAKE would have formed a partnership and received a special grant from the State Dcpt. or the CI.-\ to discover em­barrassing incidents in the backgrounds of Russian officials and to then suggest methods of using them to harass. By the way, was that you and Snake on T\'' handing notes to Robert Kenedy as each witness took the stand? I was sure I detected the fine hand of "the Snake" in some of that ques­tioning. 
*"Be good and pray for peace since I have barely begun to memorize "I surrender" in Chinese, Arab dialect or Russian. Evcrvbody write! ED LEWIS." 
For Ed's information, RAYMOND H. MORAN has recently been appointed Agcnc>' Supervisor for the Aetna Life Insui-ancc Co. at 808 Edway Bldg., ^lemphb 2, Tcnn. I had a call from Mickey when he ^^•as in this area \-isiting a service friend, but he declined to mention whether it was male or fe­male. I will let vou draw vour own conclusions. 
GEORGE F. HENVSON, JR., M. D., is now in­
terning at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York City 
at Eighth .-Vvcnue and Twelfth Street. KIM said 
he would be glad to sec anv '54crs who might be 

in that area. HARRY HADLOCK, JERRY NIES and JOHN KOSTINAS all graduated with Kim from Jefferson Medical College last June. In the new additions department I can report 
Afiss Ann Patricia Guilfoyle, daughter of Loretta and BILL GUILFOYLE, who arrived during September. Paul Edward Foresman, III, dropped in on his parents last May. 
Mai^o and JOHN GROSSPIETSCH are now lo­cated at 1418 Maude Avenue, .-Xrlington Heights, 
III. Thc^' live just across the street from Joan and D.\NA WEltHERS and report that NED SEIM, now a pilot, is a near steady week-end house guest. JERRY KEATING is a department manager for the Scars-Ro<^uck Co. His wife, Barbara, and 
•daughter, Pamela Ann, bom October 17, 1958, re­side at 11324 Lanewood Circle, Dallas, Texas. 

BILL CARSON and his wife, Eltzabctli, live at 48 Treaty Elm Lane, Haddonfield, N.J . Bill is Avorking at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard and says he is already making plans for time ofT to .attend the reunion in June. PHIL DOELL is living at 1604 Richmond Avenue, L>'ncliburg, Virginia. 
BILL MEYER'S new address is 725 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa. ROBERT JOHN FRIES, JR., Jmned his parents on October 5 at 4620 Robin 
•Wood, Royal Oak, Mich. Bob, Sr., is doing CPA ^rark in the Detroit area. Capt. ^VILLIAM LENI­HAN, USAF , and his wife Evelyn, are living at 418 GlenUaven Drive, Abilene, Texas. 
I had a phone call from CHARLIE SPICKA who is a First Lt. and a pilot with the Air Force. 
€4 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Marckj 1959 
Charlie had just delivered, a plane back to the 
U. S. from its post near Paris where he is flying cargoes for the Air Force. TO.M SHORT and PAT FOLEY sent mc a card from Rome where they were enjoying a holiday frota their legal duties with the Air Force in Rome, Nc»- York. GENE HOLLY is with Westinghouse and living in Chicago at 820 
W. Belle Plainc. It is distressing to pass on a belated report on the death of CHARLES J. WEBER, who wns killed in an auto accident on July 4, 1957. His wife is 
assured of his remembrance in the prayers of our entire class. 
From tlic Alumni Office: 
\arginia and JAMES E. HINCKLEY had a daugh­ter, Patricia Joan, last September. Pat is their third child; the others arc Mar>-, 2, and Joe, 1. The Binckleys have moved from Southern California to Santa Clara, where Jim is with Ruth & Going, cixil engineers. 
DA\1D B. FOY is now an abrasive engineer for 
the Norton Co. in the South Bend area. 

JOHN W. HOUCK is at the University of North Carolina on leave from the N. D. faculty and working for an M.B.A. He and Mar>-find the South — and southerners •— delightful. 
DR. MICHAEL P. LEVIS has been accepted for a surger>* fcllou-ship at the Mayo Clinic. 

BROTHER DOMINIC NASH, O. P., is one of several from N. D. to be ordained in the Domini­cans some time in May. 
HUGH D. RANK has become an executive for 
tlie Boy Scouts. 
ROBERT M. WRIGHT has joined the advertis­ing department of Proctor & Gamble in Cincinnati, O., pushing Ivor^* Flakes. 
Among geologists, CHUCK Cr\2EAU is tvorking on a doctorate from V.P.L; KEN SCHWARZ, out of the Air Force, is in Lafayette, La., with Pan-American Petroleum, and CLAIR SOUTHGATE is gunnery- officer with the U.S.S. Graflias, a supply ship out of Japan. 

JOHN E. DANIELS wrote that he married Rita Anne Douzc in Canton, Oliio, on April 27, 1957. A daughter, Ann Dcnise, was bom to them last April 4 in Boston, Mass., and they now live at 4545 Con­nccdcut Ave, N.\V., AVashington, D. C. 
IOC C Thomas F. O'MaUcy 
6738 Kenwood 
Kansas City, Mo. 
Well, gentlemen, the Christmas season is over. Tlic stockings can now return from the mantlepicce back to their proper place on the foot and wc can start all over again tr>-ing to refill the wallet that was so hastily emptied. I hope that you all had a wonderful holiday season and Iiave recovered from the round of parties that seems to be inevitable at tliis time of year. As always, I received a raft of Christmas cards from grads and I \*'ill try to spend most of this column giving you a rundown on tiicir actiritics. 
JIM CANTRILL and his wife, Barbara, not only 
were visited by the jolly man in red, but by a 
little girl in pink, by name, Clare Agnes. You*Il 
probably have to share your trains with her, Jim. 
Congratulations to you both. 
Our ro\ing football reporters, DAVE METZ and 
his wife, Sandy, sent word that a good time was 
had by all at the S. G. - N. D. game. HAL WIL­
LENBORG and his wife, Mary, were seen carr>*ing 
goal posts out through the players' exit. DON 
AMLLIAMS and his wife, Joan, also made an ap­
pearance and the crowd roared their approval. On 
the coast, they're big on celebrities. As reported 
previously Dave and Hal arc vacationing with the 
Xaw and Don Williams hangs his Army fatigues 
at the Presidio Army Camp in San Frantdsco. 
News drifted in from the coast from PETE BEIRIGER where he is now working for North American Aviation. Pete says that he is working as an engineer in the Thermodynamics department, which I must say, is easier to type than to pro­nounce, lie is also attending night school at 
U.C.L.A. where he is studying for his ^{aster's. Tlianks, Pete, for the card, and let's hear from you whenever you get a chance. 
Here we go again. Whatever happened to -— NOR.\l DONNELLY, TOM QUINN, AMEEL RASHID, JOHN KRIEG, JOHN HERBER, FATHER SORIN, ART EGGERS. WALLY CLARKE, JOE SWIFT, DON SANTSCHI, BOB MURPHY and JOHN NICHOLSON. 
GEORGE GIST married Miss Ann Helen Don­nelly on July 5 in Houston, Texas. George is now associated with the Cliasc Manhattan Bank in New York. Congratulations and best wishes to you both. Of course, we can't forget to mention the '55 grads who were there to add moral support and cnlivA the proceedings. BILL STOUTENBURGH, N0RI 2 HIPSKIND and BOB KR/VNZKE saw that George got off in fine style and, I am sure, stayed around afterwards to help tidy up any refreshments that remained. I understand that some company plans to bottle Houston puncli. 

Making the rounds of various ports in the Medi­terranean, a tall Chicagoan, JIM EHRET by name, has established a branch Alumni Club at the Casino on the French Riviera. On a good night the pro­ceeds should be sufficient to pay for a change of water in the swimming pool at the Rock. He is aboard the U.S.S. Forrcstal and expects to be re­leased to the cold and cruel in April. Remember, Jim, be careful, and above all fly low and slow.^ 
PAT KEARNS checks in from Downey, Calif., '^) report that he and his wife, JoAnn, and their daughter of six montlis, Stacey Ann, have recently moved into a new home and find that there is a lot more to it tlian just holding a housewarming. He had prenously ^vorked for North American Avia­tion but has recently transferred to Firestone's Mis­sile Dinsion. Pat does his usual good job of con­tributing mucli needed news to this oftentimes slen­der column. BERNIE TR^VCEY is working for the Electric Boat Company in Wndsor, Contu He was discliargcd from the Nav>- last summer. Ct\RL BRtVTTON also sported Naw blue and is stationed on the West coast. He is married and has a daugh­ter. JACK KENNEDY is working on an ad­vanced degree at Cal. Tech. Drop a line, Jac^-' and fill nic in. DICK GRONER is working on his master's degree and is doing a little teacliing on the side at Missouri School of Mines in Rolla, Mo. DICK DONAHUE was recently discharged from the Air Force and is now attending Loyola Law Scliool in Chicago. BILL HEINRICH is working for the Bechtcl Corp. in Georgia and is supervising the installation of new pipe lines. DICK BL/\CK, his wife nnd son, arc now living at his home in Penn5yl\*ania. Dick was stationed at ^XHiite Sands Proving Grounds at El Paso, Texas. Apparently the only thing Dick proved there was that things arc better in Pennsylvania than they ever could be in the Lone Star State. Any comments from my Texas readers will be greatly appreciated. ^ 
£D PRIEN is back in Cedar Rapids after scrl^ ing with the Army. Ed is working as a civil engi­neer for the dty. JACK NEMETZ has recently returned from Japan where he was stationed with the xVir Force. He's now working for the Minne­sota Mining and Manufacturing Company. Jack and his wife Emmy have two boy's, Mike and Eddie. 
Just as regular as clock work, LARRY BREHL sends another message from Westinghouse where he is working in the Communications Department. Larry and his wife recently bought a home in a suburb of Pittsburgh, and in order not to u-aste the extra bedroom they expect a little Brehl next May. Tlie only thing I can say about your car trouble, Larr>-, is that they don't make thera like they used to. For my money >-ou can't beat -^ scooter. Starts every morning, hot or cold. Trao**­in \"aluc — terrific 
Tlicre's nothing like hearing from an old roomie, and RAY HAGG sure fills the bill. I'm running true to form, and needless to say, haven't an­swered his letter yet, but I want him to know how good it was to hear from him. I never did mind your snoring, Ray, bm why did you prefer my brand of toothpaste? Ray is working in his father's dairy in T>-rone, Pa., and tells me that ^vith cows it's not what's up front tliat counts. Drink a quart for me, old buddy. 
It's a long way from Chicago to I-a Jolla, but BOB MORRISON and his wife, Rita, seem to ^'a'y'^k made the trip. I received a Christmas card frok-.^ them \*'ith no note of explanation. Por que. Bob? GEORGE V/\N BESIEN still has some dmc to serve with the Army and is now living with his wife and daughter in Falls Churcli, Va. Kansas City is looking for%vard to your return, George. "Wc still haven't found a good tenor to replace you. Hello, DON BAUSMAN, wherever you arc. Give my best to the family. 
Whatever happened to — MIKE ELLIS. FRED HUMBERT, DAV E SCH\V'EELE, STEV E SCHLENGER, JOHN SERVOTTE, BOB GR^\Y, TOM CAREY, DICK BERRES, FRANK RAITH, JOHN MUSOLINO, RON HENDERSON, TOM FEELEY, HARVE MUELLER, NELLIE FOR­BUSH. ^ 
An old next door neighbor took a minute to dro|^'~' a line from up Milwaukee way. JIM RILEY, from Muskegon, has been living there for the last three years. Jtm and I used to share the same medicine 
«
cabinet in Badin Hall, and this is one time that HE bought all the toothpaste. Not even my brand. ood to hear from you, Jim, and write again soon. Get rich quick u-ith ROY BELKNAP. Roy and his family arc now living in Chicago where he is working with the investment banking firm of Mc-Doncll and Co. Roy has some good bu>-s for any grad who received money instead of electric trains for Christmas. Yulctide greetings arrived from JIM WILSON, who is now living wt h his wife and two boys in St. Paul, Minn. If I failed to mention it in previous columns, Jim married the former Miss Ten Badger, an alumna of St. Mary-of-thc-AVoods. Jim and Tcri expect another addition to the family in March- Radio ^vo^k \vith WCCO in the Twin Cities seems to be keeping Jim quite bus>*. In addition to this they have recently moved into a new home and I'm sure that spare time is 0 thing of the past. The news to follow is from Jim*s letter. RON SMITH is now practicing law and next summer plans to marry a St. Paul girl. EMMET ROOT and his wife are now tlic proud parents of a baby bo>', and arc settled in the furni­ture business in Omalia. The stock broker of the group, HfVRRY EDELSTEIN, was not only expect­ing guests at a New Year's Eve party, but also looks for^vard to a permanent resident, their second, sometime next summer. Harry is working for Jfer­riU, Lynch, etc, 
JIM MONGELLO is helping to push a little Florida real estate, after scr\'iog in Japan with the Marine Corps. After bidding adieu to tlie Atr Force, BILL C/\NNING, his wife, Nancy, and 
^|:)ughtcr, Kathleen, now call Kansas City their 
^omc . Bill is selling investment plans in the area, and no reasonable offer will be refused. All yo" need is the money and the desire to retire early. He'll do his best to provide the rest. 
Sliortly after tho' were married, JACK SORAN­NO and his w*Ife, Arlcnne, were transferred from Fresno to Walnut Creek, Calif. Jat:k is looking sliarp for Gillette. Christmas greetings arrived from FRi\NK BURKE and his •wife, Ann, who arc now living in Waldwick, N. J. Medical school is a long haul, but JOHN RYAN sa>-s that, the end is now in sight. However, he isn't too excited about it since military 5er\'icc, internship and residency arc still around the corner. John and his wife, Rence, arc now sporting a young lady named Kathleen, 
Aor n the 27th of October. Congratulations to you ooth. John's brother-in-law, FR^\NK MAIER, was recently released from the Navy in San Diego, and is now employed as the sports editor for the Elgin, III., Courier-News. 
DON GALLJ\GHER is engaged to marr%* Miss Nanc\- Schwind of South Bend on June 13. JOHN O'BRIEN attended summer school at the Queen's Hospital in London, England. During the season, John is at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Scliool. Moving from Chicago to New York must have been a little difficult for LEE CREi\N and his wife, Mar^-, but they seem to be enjoying it as Lee is selling for the Marathon Dirision of fVmcrican Can Company. He mentions seeing BOB 
JCUNZE, FR.\NK CUNNINGH;\M and BILL 
9.IULLER. Bob is with Firestone, Frank with Bam­burger's Departmcni Store of Newark, and Bill is with Quinn & Boden Printing Co. Not to be over­looked, Lee and Mary arc expecting a tax exemp­tion sometime in March. 
Hope cver^'onc in Mobile had a good Christmas and that the fat man in red was good to all. 
Jean and MIKE JACKMf\N sent belated greet­ings from their new home in Pomona, Calif. It's beginning to look as though they arc permanent fixtures in California. They have j'oincd the Chris­tbn Family Movement, and daughter Kathy, now 2, has become a real lady. Mike enjo>'5 coaching and tcacliing very much, and tlmy all like the area 
^k- less than an hour's drive from L. A., the boachcs 
^ r the mountains. Mike got a note from GEORGE SHELTON, now in an accounting firm in New Or­leans and shortly to become a father. 
From the Alumni Office: 
PATRICK J. .\fcGAH.\N is training with Cum­mins Engine Co. In Columbus, Ind. 
E.M1L M. BANAS, a Ph.D. with the class, has been appointed a project chemist in Standard Oil's Whiting, Ind., research lab, while \VILLLVM LEE KREPS has been assigned to Shell's Oklahoma divi­sion office as a mechanical engineer in production. 
t
^\'edding bells will ring in April for Lt. PAUL RAYMOND MURPHY of the Air Reserve and liss Sandra Webber. JAY H. Lf\UE has received a citation for out­standing service as an aeronautical research engi­neer in the Army Ballistic Missile Agency's lab in Huntsvlltc, Ala. 

ROME — More N.D. hospitality at the Scoglio Di Frisio. Clockwise from left: Bob Smith, '26; ^Valter O'Kcefe, '21; Club Secretary Vincc McAloon, '34; University Trustee Joe Byrne, '15; Mr. and Mrs. John Kruegsr, M9, and Mrs. Bob Smith. (Walking into view, far right, proprietor and subway alumnus August© Rossi.) 
.\ AVashington Post clipping tells how RALPH 
GUGLIELMI of the Washington Redskins sent 
tickets that enabled Jimmy Nolan, dying of muscu­
lar dystrophy, to sec his first and last pro foot­
ball game. 
.EDWARD J. VOLTAGGIO is now an instructor 
at Illinois Tech. 
PAT HALEY is with Humble Oil in Los Angeles, while JOHN NICKNISH is working the Gulf 
Coast for the Texas Co. JOHN DROEGE is still 
navigating in the Air Force, may be in Europe by 
now. 
Congratulations to WILLLV>f J. STOUTEN­BURGH, JR. Bill has become a member of the New York Stock Excliange and has located with the Hayden, Stone & Co. brokerage. 
Looks like that wraps it up for another time. Thanks to all who contributed, and to those who didn't, it's never too late. Another reminder, the reunion comes up in '60, so start mentioning it to your wife now. It should only take a year and a half for her to make up her mind to let you go. 
.-\s a noted philosopher once said, "The only man who starts at the lop is the one who digs a ditch.'* 
1956 J°^ ^' ^^^^ 
5697 N. Lincoln Ave. 
Chicago 45, Illinois 
At long last the column has been graced with a classic memorandum of news and shorts from around the World by none other than our Class President . . . BILL WARREN. . . The Lt. (j-s-) of (2l5 A Ave., Coronado, Calif.) received his commission in Newport, R. I., and was sent to Athens, Ga., and while in school there, took a two-day trip to La-Jolla, Calif., and married Judith Ann Johnston vho, having graduated from Michigan State, was teach­ing school there. The next stop found the two Warrens in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii for more school­
ing under the auspices of the U. S. Navy. From Pearl, Bill and the bride were sent to Na\-al Sta­tion Kwajalein, a tiny atoll three miles long by half a mile wide in the Marshall Islands and while a fuel officer, he and Judy were blessed with a son, 
Stephen Kelly. . , (All's well up to this, . . but you can imagine little Steve when he starts kin­dergarten and tr\-s to explain to his teacher and classmates just where he ^vas bom.) Transferred from this tiny atoll to his present duty as Supply Officer of LCU Squadron One, located at the Navad ^\mphiblQus Base In Coronado, Calif., at least up to last December, Bill sends his kindest regards to all the '56ers and some news of those he has seen since graduation. . . 
TOM BENNETT and JOHN O'CONNOR In the Nav>- on short tours. DAVE DAVIN, HAL SPENCER and DON WALZ seen at OCS. PAUL NOLAND and wife. Peg, stationed at Barber's Point, Hawaii. JIM OLIN, DICK EASLEY and HANK OLBRICHT in the preceding class at Athens. DAVE ^VEST and his \vife, Maureen. . . . BILL BRENNAN and his wife, Barbara, were aU neighbors in Georgia. JIM TEDFORD and TOM ARNOLD received orders to ships as supply offi­cers. JOHN (SKINNY) BRODERICK, handling fuel for the Marines at Camp Pendleton, and wife, Barbara, announced the 3rri^*al of John Stephan, who first appeared on December 26, weighing In at 6 lbs., 2 oz. . . Some lime was spent with FE­LIX PARK In Hawaii, as the damage control offi­cer aboard the Destroyer Leader, U.S.S. J. L. Mc­Cain. . . In June of '58 he married Ann Matthews of South Bend and after the Hawaiian honeymoon, he Is now in West Pacific on a s« months* cruise. 
Bill heard from JAY MADIGAN that he has taken the step and he and his bride arc touring Europe with Swiss chapeaux, a scarf and a stylish sports car. JIM EUSTERMANN reported that he is in his third year at Yale Med School. . . Sta­tioned at North Island Nax-al Air Station in Cor­onado are CLEM O'NEILL and TOM MULLEN, the latter with wife Sylvia arc expecting their second daughter. 
While in L. A. for the So. Calif, game on 2& 
Nov., seen were JACK DONNELLY, JACK LEACH 
and wife, Jan, who, after his Army tour, joined 
an engineering firm in San Francisco. An an­
nouncement tells ol a proud daddy in the name of 
TO.M HUBBARD (seen by the column at the Army 
game. EARL WARE is now married after com­pleting his studies In Washington. In closing the masterful letter. Bill requested some whereabout news and doings of LEO LINBECK, JOE BURKE and AL VITT. 
LETTERS FROM DEPT.: PAUL UEBELHOR (Hq. Btry, Btl. AAA MSI. Bn P.O. Box 1000, Orland Park, 111), sent a few-lines about SID WILKEN of Canadaigua, N.Y., who, after his discharge from the Army, joined Kodak in Rochester, N.Y. JIM HURLEY of Wn ­netka. 111., was seen at Ft. Sheridan as a chap-Iain's assistant. Located on the same NIKE site with Paul was his wife. Mary Jo, who since have returned to Jasper, Ind-, where they are selUnff Chev., Olds & Caddy. Sharing their duty was JIM MCU\UGHLIN of Chester, Pa., as a battery clerk on the base that protected the "Windy City** of all "enemies" coming from the southwest. After re­ceiving this letter, the column began sleeping better^ knowing that the people of Chicago were adequate­ly protected from the southwest. 
THE FIFTY-SIXERS OF N.Y.: The above caption was signed to an anonymous-letter sent from Brooklyn, N.Y., last November. The contents of same as follows. . . . SIL RESCI­N m and JIM CLARK, completing the final year at St. John's Law Sdiool, were having a hard 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 65 
time peddling used furniture to the freshmen. MIKE MANGANIELLO busy making money and helicopters at Sikorsky Aircraft in Connecticut. MIKE MALLARDI is u-ith the Columbia Broad­casting System as an accountant. AL "BOROUT" SCHOENIG, whose half-mile N. D. record was eclipsed this year, is currently "running'* for the Telephone Co. in X.Y. DICK O'KEEFE is now a X.Y. attorney ^-ia St. John's and is now serving his six-mo. hitch. . . My thanks to the N.Y. City Grapevine whoever vou are. Let's have more. . . (AL??). 

CHRISTNLAS GREETINGS: From near and far came joyous words of the Yuletide Season. Many thanks to all and a belated 50od "New Year" to ever^-onc. . . Thank you JOHN RAUB (St. Mary's Seminary, Norwood 12, Ohio) Nancy and JACK CASEY (441 N. Lombard, Oak Park, 111.), Peg and JACK KEGALY (Lcvit­lovra. Pa.), BOB WELSH (562 Lincoln St., Gar>-, Ind.) recently discharged from the Army. BILL COPELAND, Pat and BHI, Jr., now at Waco, Texas (2736 Pine St.). LUKE BRENNAN returned lo Germany. Kay and DAVE DAVIN blessed with Kevin David on the 13th of March in the Naval Hospital at Guam. . . 
LI. (j.g.) ED SORENSON (U.S.S. Intrepid CUA-

n . Operations C/o F.P.O., N.Y.) as a radio offi­<:er, has been hitting the beach at Norfolk, sent his regards to all. . . Pfc CHUCK .MILLIGAN (U.S. 55605651 Co. A. 46th Med. Bn. 4th a.d. APO 176, X.Y., N.Y.), somewhere in Germany, will soon be home. . . Jody and BOB McGOLDRICK expecting an addition in May as Bob battles the U. of Conn, law school (19 Willard, Hartford, Conn.). . . JOHN (TOOZE) TWOHY sent greetings from Brooklyn. . . BILL KEARNEY'S attractive card ar­rived from the south side as did those from Pat and TOM DONOVAN, JOE CLINE, MARK BURNS and a well-known blue-cycd brunette from St. .Mary's, .Mary Kay Carroll. . . ANG. CAPOZZI has been seen around the tou-n while he keeps up his studies at Lovola Med School along with JOHN DWYER. . . 
JOHN BIRNEY (5703 Fairfax, Newport Ncu-s, Va.) informed the column of his release from Uncle Sam last December while stationed at Ft. Eustls 
•with
 TO.M BLUEBOUGH. He since has returned to tlie Chrysler Missile Division in Detroit with wife, Shirlc>-, and an 8 lb. 3 oz. son, John Edward, bom last June 4. Congratulations. . . 

DAVE McFADDEN sent greetings from Cincin­nati, . .Mar>' and FRANK TIGHE are now living in Evanston, III. JIM MACK of Nilcs, Mich., and Long Beach, Ind., fame has finally returned to ci­

•vilian
 life. He, as yet, is not assuming any real responsibilities but he does have some fantastic lies to tell along with his war stories. JOE BILL is 

•back
 with .-Vmcrica Fore. . . JOHN (PERK) PHE­LAN, studying for the Jesuits at Springhill, in Mo­bile, Ala., referred two lovelies for BENITO CAR­RANE to contact here in Chicago. 


MARRLAGES: An interesting note arrived from Carroll Pitkin, '42, telling of the marriage of DON BOMALSKI <jf Jasper, Ind., to Julia Strange of Loogootee. On hand %vas JIM SCHU.MAKER of Paducah, Ky. Don is in his second year of medicine at Indiana University, at the Medical Center in Indianapolis. He and Julia will make their home there until :graduation. . . 
J. ROBERT HILGER (Hq. 3rd Bn. (8") 37th Arty. APO 751, N.Y., N.Y.) stationed In Schwae­3iiscli Hall, Germany, married in Ireland amid the iestKities of Irish bagpipes playing "Back Home in Indiana." He and Barbara spent the Christmas in Italy and Switzerland skiing. Bob tells of the Jet Marine pilot, JIM FAY, stationed in Laguna Beach after his "big day" with the SMC belle, "Lynn Flvnn. . . Bob would like to hear from POGO JIEILLY and BILL VEECH. . . 
THRU THE GR.\PEVINE: 
JI.M G.\MMON (4020 Beecher St. N.W., Wash­ington, D.C., WO 6-6860) still busy at Georgetown Law. Mr. and Mrs. DICK HENDRICK have a ^n . . . MIKE KILEY can be reached at 4916 Deal Dr., Washington, D.C. . . TOM POWERS, the Alumni Hall roommate, has taken a Job in Los An­geles and has run into LLOYD AUBREY, PAT POYNTON and \VEBB SEXTON among others. Tom's address is 4908 Alta Canyoda Rd., La Can­-ada, Calif. . . Monica and BOB GUTHRIE are expecting their second early in '59, . . 
TH E COLUMN REQUESTS: During the past year, your cooperation has been 
€6 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1959 
Frederick B. I^aughna, '33, has been pronioted to director of branch operations for Chrysler Corpora­tion's Airtemp Di­vision. The division has branch offices in seven major met­ropolitan areas of 
Laughna the U. S. Fred 
has been a region­al and divisional manager in Chicago, De­troit and New York, will now make his headquarters at Dayton, Ohio. He is mar­ried and has six children. 
excellent. I sincerely thank you, and may it con­tinue as It has in the past. It's certain that many of you have at one time or another said to your­self, "I think I'll drop a line to 5697 Lincoln Avenue, and furnish the Column a little more fuel." O.K. . . . cnufT said. Thanlis. . . . 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 

Secrelarv* JOHN DEASY has been grappling with law finals and running for alderman of Chicago's 50th Ward. Let's hope he makes both. D.AVID E. COLLINS, in the third year at Harvard Law, has been elected to the editorial board of the Law Re­view. On Jan. 25 THOXLVS QUINN was installed as diocesan president of the Toledo Council of Catholic Youth, heading an organization of about 2,500 young people. Tom v\-as elected over a Pur­due grad on the Purdue week end, so N.D. did win a sideline scrimmage. Congratulations to the JOHN MANION family, Peoria-bound, on their addition last fall. JOHN aARNEY MEAGHER of Washington, D.C, recently picked up an M.A. in English from Princeton. 
In geological strata GORDON BENNETT is a geophysicist with the U. S. Geological Survey in Harrlsburg, Pa. Gordon married Patricia Collins back in October. JIM MILAS is a heavy equip­ment officer with the Engineers at Camp Pendle­ton, Calif., and JOHN O'ROURKE, aboard the 
U.S.S. Floyd B. Parks, will complete Navy duty in Julv. 

JOHN F. MANION has moved to Peoria, III., as a district sales manager for Clark OH & Refining Corp. John's address Is 2114 West Garden Road, Hamilton Park, Peoria, 111. 
195 7 Charles P. Williamson 
•'^' P.O. Box 605 Mt. Vcmon, Illinois 
Paul Kraus (Law Secretary) 1730 West Bancroft S t Toledo 6, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: JOSEPH C. COSTELLO of Decatur, Ind., was named the Most Outstanding Catholic Young .Adult of the Fort ^Va>•ne diocese at the diocesan CYO convention in Fort Wayne. Joe works at People's Trust & Savings Co. In Fort ^Vayne. THONL\S R. HERMAN has been assigned to the nuclear pump section of Allis-Chalmers Mfg. Co. as an assistant engineer. After six months In the Army WILLIAM K. Mc-GOWAN, JR., is back In Indianapolis in business with his fatlier's firm, McGowan & Brosnan, insur­ance agcnc>*. DR. JAMES E. STURM, a Ph.D. with the class. Is an assistant professor at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., and has completed service as a resi­dent research associate at the Argonne National Laboratory*, working in radiation chemistry. JERRY L. VANDEN BOOM was awarded the Ethyl Corp. graduate research fellowship at the University of Kansas. Jcrr>' has an M.S. from Kansas and is working on hts PIi.D. Geological notes: BILL GARVEY wants all to know he's available for wakes, weddings and parties while taking law at Northwestern. GENE MUL-, HERR has another year with the Army as photo interpretation officer at Fort Hood, Tex. He'll be at the A.A.P.G. convention In Dallas In March and hopes to see everyone there. JOHN TRECKMAN 
finished at the U. of Colorado, is working for Shell 
Development and plans to begin work on his mas­
ter's thesis In .March. ,-Sb 
Apologies to Law Secretary- PAUL KRAUS l5i' 

printing Ins Law Class notes under the name of 
A.W.O.L. .Marine Lt. PAT WILLIAMSON, appar­ently lost In Lebanon. It was a compositor's error. 
GARL.-VND DEVER will be returning to the States in July after spending eighteen months In Morocco, courtesy of the United States Marines. 
19g g Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 
1709 Indiana Ave. 
LaPortc, Indiana 

It set-ms as if I just finished writing the last news article but once again it's time to sit dov."^ at the typewriter and put together the bits ani^ pieces of news garnered during the past three months. I was fortunate in running into a great many of our classmates on last fall's football week ends. As a result I was able to get some first-hand news, and I will now attempt to relate It to you. 
It seems that the ranks of law students among the grads of '58 are still growing. TOM SABO was in South Bend for the Purdue game and in­formed me that he is studying at the University of Montana. JLM GAULRt\PP Is at Loyola of Chi­cago and Is working in a bank while studying law. TOM MOORE and LOU BOSCO are at the Uni­versity of Detroit Law School. Tom, by the way, is married to the former Beverly RIzzo. JOH ^ SHEPARD Is at Western Reserve's Law Schoo*^ JOHN GLAVIN is at Fordham; and CHARLEY RONAN is at Georgetown. 
First-liand news via the malls (a good example for the rest of you) has come from several men. BOB DEVINE writes that he is at St. Philip Neri School at 55 Saltonstall Road, Haverhill, Mass., where he is studying preparator>' to entering the seminary next fall. His teammate and co-captain on last year's Irish basketball squad Is following the same path—JOHN McCARTHY has entered the Dominican seminary. It is interesting to note that with the entrance of Bob and John the last three captains of the N. D. basketball teams have decided to enter the priesthood. (JOHN SM\THE, the '57 captain, also entered the seminary- as yo—^ very likely know.) ^ 
BILL DE SETA writes from Washington that he is at the Catholic University graduate school studying drama. He spent last summer working in olT-Broadway theater. CHARLES ADIE, another of the correspondents, is leaching science at Wil­mington High School (Mass.) while working for a master's degree at Tufts University in Boston. DICK DEVINE is studying physical therapy at Mayo Clinic for two years. 
GERRY GENOVESE is still in South Bend, work­ing for Prudential Insurance as a special agent. However, he has taken time out, as of Fcbruarj* 24, to spend some time with Uncle Sam at Fort Benjamin Harrison. Gerry informs us that GUY WXISMANTLE is at the Aberdeen Proving Grounij^ In Maryland. 
A letter from BRUCE HUOT's father has re­layed the following information: Biuce Is married to the former Miss Patricia Kilgos (the wedding took place September 27) and is living at 1149 E. Carson Street, Long Beach 7, Calif., where Bruce Is stationed while being assigned to the U.S.S. Cavallaro. 
While on the subject of military life, let us note that TIM HOURIGAN and BILL BOURNE have both entered the National Guard for six months. They were both here for the Army game last fall. Others here on week end Included: JOE GR.ACE who Is with Touche, Niven, Bailey, & Smart i«»-. Detroit; FRANK BISCHOFF of Montgomery WariV PHIL CONWAY of Pricc-Waterhousc; TOM MAX­WELL, who will soon enter the Marines for six months; and DICK MURPHY, who flew in from San Diego while on leave from the Navy. On Octo­ber 29, Dick shipped out for the Orient for about a six-month tour of duty. His Christmas was spent in Manila. 
DON REILLY u-as also here for the Army 

game and revealed that he had been elected presi­
dent of his freshman class at Fordham Law School. 
Brother KEVIN is working on Wall Street. 
HENRY ZANG. when I ran into him last fall, 

was working as a radio announcer (in Kewanec, 
Illinois, I believe). Since then he has moved up 
into some sort of promotional job on the station" ^ 
according to HOOT WALSH. While on the subje£^ of the eminent Mr. Walsh (who was here for a number of v%-cek ends last fall) I vvoiUd like to re­port that the LaSalle draft board Is interested in 
«
ofFc'ring Hont a position in the govfriiiiu'iit viii­pliivf. No liirthcr word on the dcvclopnu-iits has en forthcuniing from LaSalle. I understand that BOB WILLIAMSON has tn­tiTcd the scminaiA' to prepare for the priesthood but I have no infnnnntion as to where. Other hearsay has informed me that when PAT KILEY (or was it ROGER KILEY) arrived at Fort Ben­ning, he discovered that his Commanding Officer %vas JACK ARMSTRONG. 
CHARLEY KILB recently paid a visit to the campus and when I ran into him in the law school corridor he tnid mc that he will be spending a year in North Africa (Air Force). He has been in the Air Defense Radar School. 
.•\ letter from BOB KIEP's mother enclo.sed a 

newspaper clipping aiid a picture of Bob which ^intaincd the notice of Bob's having completed his ^-s t solo flight at I'ensacola Naval Air Base. 
Thanks to the many men who sent Christmas greetings my way. They were doubly appreciated because they also contained news of the senders. RUSS HOPKINS reported from Chicago that he is busy promoting Japanese-American trade (he is employed in an importing house) but has no other exciting news to impart to us. DON RONEY has begun what he refers to as his six-month vacation at Fort Sill. Oklahoma. Don has been working in a Salt Lake City bank while awaiting his niili­tar>' duty. 
FRANK BISCHOF, according to another in­formiiiit. has "volunteered" for military- ser\'icc and is stati()ned at Fort Leonard 'Wood. The same in­
^^rniant. who wishes to remain anonymous, also reports that ED B.\UER is now working for .-\mer­
ican .Airlines in Chicago. 
RON KROLICKI sent a card and note from Dearborn. Michigan, and states that he has been working for Montgomery* Ward. He reported to Newport. Rhode Island, on January* 3, for training in thp .\a\-\- DCS. BILL LYNCH was finally com­missioned on September 2 (after a considerable battle with red tape) and is presently stationed at Saiidin Naval Base in .Albuquerque. Bill is an instructor in the Nuclear Branch of the Technical Training Division of the Armed Forces Special Weapons Project. Apparently Bill is very satisfied with his assignment. Additional note — Bill will be 
arried in the summer. 

f A card from Winston-Salem. North Carolina, in­forms us that JOE NOL.\N is working with West­ern Electric as a project engineer. Joe was mar­ried lo Mary Faith Chamberlain in Chattanooga on last .August 23rd. Their new address is 328 Miller Street, Winston-Salem. 
Front the Alunmi Office: 
DAVID J, McMAHON can now be reached at Hanipti>n House. .Apt. C-ll, 120 .Morris Ave., Rock­ville Center, Long Island, N.Y. 
JOHN A- GINDLING was graduated from the .American Institute for Foreign Trade in Phoenix January 27. 
Sixteen '5B men are now doing graduate work m Woodrow Wilson fellows: .MICHAEL J. CRO\VE, TOHN M. STECZYNSKI, ROBERTO. BOWM.AN, 
PETER DcVITO, WILLIAM E. DORENBUSCH, GEORGE K. FRANCIS, GER.\LD J. GOODWIN, ERNEST V. HABERKERN, DAVID L. KAR­NATH, JOHN T. KE.ARNS, JAMES L. McDON-ALD, PAUL F. McGR^\W, PAUL R. MORv\N, GEORGE T. OSER, STEVE A. PIACSEK and THOMAS D. WALSH. 
ROBERT J. a\IOL^\ has been named an assist­ant in cheinistrj- at Washington University in St. Louis. 
THONLVS .M. PLONSKI is now teaching music and English at Lucerne High School, Lucerne, Ind., 
^i d living in nearby Logansport. 
flPCongratulations are in order for two members of the Class and their wives. Mr. and Mrs. CHAR­LEY McGILL welcomed the arrival of a daughter, Lockie, on November 13, and the latest word from Richmond, Ind., tells us that Carol and DAVE HOLTHOUSE are the parents of an 8 lb.. 13 oz. son, born December 19. The young Holthouse was christened Joseph Donald. 
PHILIP MAERSCH will complete teacher certi­fication requirements and receive a Master of .Arts degree in Teaching from Johns Hopkins University in June. Phil has been working on a fellowship which provides a full-time, full-pay teaching in­ternship and results in the M.A.T. degree. Reports from the Gcolog\' Club letter: ANDY 
«
)NAHUE, after engineer, airborne, demolition d ranger training, will join the 86th Engineer Battalion in Hawaii. JOHN HECKHARD has started grad school at Indiana University. BILL OWENS, some ser\'icc In with Shell, has begun 
Neville 

Patrick G. Xcvillc, '52, has joined CIBA Pharmaceutical Products. Inc.. a subsidiary of CIB.A. Ltd. of Basle, Switzerland. Pat will represent the company in professional sales in the Buffalo, N. Y., territory-. Pat ser\'ed two years with the U. S. Marine Corps after graduation and subsequently worked for Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., and the Armour Laboratories. 
David B. Foy, '54, has moved to the South Bend, Ind., area as an abrasives engi­neer for the Norton Company, manufacturer of industrial abrasive products. Dave joined Norton in 1957 after two years as a lieuten­ant in the .Army and in 1958 was assigned to the Company's Indianapolis, Ind., district office as a field engineer. 
graduate work at L.S.U. And PAT TRECKM.AX married Miss Camialita Suttic November 29, 1958. Pat is working as a petroleum geologist for the Pe­troleum Research Corp., may be in Venezuela now. 
CORRECTION In the November issue of the ALUMNUS it was incorrectly reported that DON CORBETT was mar­ried and was enrolled at Cornell Law School. Don has sent a notice that he is still single and is at .Albany Law rather than Coinell. Sorry, Don. it won't happen again. 1 recently received a vcr>' entertaining letter from JIM Li\\\', who is with the O'Brien Paint Corpora­tion. Jim has been transferred from the South Bend office to Detroit. .After a sales training period. Jim was assigned to his own territory and is ver\* eiithusiaj^tic about his job, judging from his letter. The future looks good for our favorite "green hat" salesman. A letter from JOHN LIESKE also contained news of great inteicst. John has been in the Mediter­ranean with the Sixth Fleet since graduation, and was in Rome during the period of mourning for the late Holy Father. While in Rome, John was impressed with the fact that he could still find tics with Notre Dame through the Xotrc Dame Club of Rome. 
JIM INDIVERI reported that he became en­gaged and by now is married (the date was Decem­ber 27) to Miss Carol .Ann Roberts of Washington-ville, N. Y. They are living in Quantico, Va., where Jim is stationed pending assignment else­
\^S^''^'''\ s^ S ^^- James H. 
^TA ;~r^*%' Griesmer, '51, has 
bee n appointed 
staff mathematician 
a t th e Research 
Center of the In­
ternational Business 
Machines Corpora-
t i o n , Yorktown 
Heights, N. Y. He 
joined IBM in 
1957 as an associ­

ate mathematician and is doing research on minimization methods for the logical design of switching systems, circuit design and n-person game theorv. 
where. Jim relayed the greetings of OICK KWAK, DAVE WOLL, NEIL O'BRIEN, DAN O'BRIEN, and JLM BEHME. 
Other items picked up here and there include news of the marriage of DENNY CROWLEY and Sarah Zcmpel last October 18; a sLx-months' service tour in the Air Force for JOHN HIGGINS; and 
information to the efTect that BOB THOMPSON and ANDY CL.ARK arc at the Indiana University Business School. 
And finally, congratulations to PAT DOL.AN, who in his first year as bead football coach of St. Mary's High School in Mt. Clemens, Michigan, led his team to a conference co-clianipionship. 
As a closing remark may I remind all of you men that we are very anxious to hear from you. How about a letter or card! 
John F. Marchal 339 West 4th St. Greenville, Ohio 
1958 LAW CL/\SS 

I want to extend my congratulations to all those who itow bear the title, Attorncy-at-Law, and to all those who have qualified fur the marital de­duction since June I. 
JACK "SALLY" aXLLAH^VN and R.AY DREX­LER arc clerking with Judges Roger KIlc>' and John Lewe, respectively, of the Illinois Appellate Court, and inform me that they arc getting some experience with political platforms. 
Recent %vord from JERRY CURRAN, GEORGE PATTERSON, and BILL ENGEL indicate that they are enjoying Uncle Sam's hospitality. George is with Air Force JAG in Panama City, Fla.. Bill with the National Guard at Ft. Knox, and Coney with the Army, after the ;Vir Force missed getting him by one day. 
GENE WAVE is clerking for Judge John Biggs, 

U. S. Third Circuit Court of Appeals in Philadel­phia, and CHARLEY ROEMER Is working with his brothers In South Bend. He has Informed me that FRANK PELLICCIA is back at N. D. 
JACK "RUPE" SNELL has passed the D. C. Bar, and plans to take the New York Bar. Our Hawaiian Romeo, Rf\Y TAM, Is with Air Force JAG, Edwards A.F.B., California, where he Is try­ing to find a loophole in that notice he sent out recently. 
CHARLEY WINANS Is practicing In Ft. Wayne, and bv this time should have an addition to hb family.' JOHN MURR^VY and ED DEN-N arc rooming together in Washington. Murch is with the Internal Revenue Scr\*ice, beating the taxpayers out of their mone\', while Ed is clerking for Judge Fahev* and preparing to lake the D. C. Bar in De­cember. 
"JOHN FOSTER" McNEILL is in Vienna sup­posedly studying. I wonder just what subjects are the object of his pursuits there? They don't have any sponges. WILLIAM "HONEY** McLAIN is practicing with a firm in Warren, Ohio, between trips to Chicago. 
My most recent communications from Michigan indicate that TO.M McKLXLEY and FRANK VAR­G/VS Were sweating out the Bar results which would be out In late December. Tom is still working his insurance, and Frank Is still working his buzzing personality. 
I haven't heard from TOM OGLEVIE since he called me on the way to Kansas. Oil business must be good. I did hear from BURT GREEXBERG, though. He is In general practice with a firm in St. Louis and tells me that he recently was ad­mitted to the Federal District Court after passing a 90-minute oral exam on Federal Procedure. Pro­fessor Ward should be elated. 
WALT WOLF is with a firm In Camden, and I have heard a rumor that he is working secretly on a partnership with Adrian Burke. TOM D.AR-RAGH's hikes proved so exhausting that he has been spi:ndlng his time recuperating. He tells me lliat he hopes to be out of his doctor's care in a few weeks. Hope cver>"tblng is well by the lime you read this Tom. Yours truly is still waiting for his Air Force JAG Commission, and in the meantime breaking gradually into the practice of law. It's quite different from Law School. I would also like to note that since returning to the Buck­eye State we have returned to the right column. 
I Would like to hear from the other members of the class, cspeaally JACK ECONOMOU, JOHN RIGBY, and ED BARTOLI, whose new- addresses I do not have. 
In closing I want to wbh all of you a Blessed Christmas and New Year. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1959 67 
Ollice o{ the PleAideni The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Dear Fellow Alumni: February 17, 1959 
This letter to you, the membere of The Notre Dame Alumni Association, is almost my first official act as your newly elected President. I follow many outstanding Notre Dame Alumni Presidents. Under their leadership, and guided by the steady and knowing mind of Jim Armstrong, our Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation has grown significantly in effective influence for Notre Dame both on and off the campus. Because we have a singleness of purpose — the good of Notre Dame — and because previous Alumni Boards and their presidents have acted only to fulfill that purpose, we have made progress. The responsibility of your President and that of your Board is a serious one. I can assure you that all of us on your Alumni Board look upon this duty with resoluteness. Our job is officially to represent tlie Alumni in its undertakings. We can only be good representatives if we as a Board, know the thinking of those we represent. AVe wel­come your thoughts, your suggestions, and your criticisms. We will do our best to act on them, and will do so always for the good of Notre Dame, which is as we know you would want it. 
The work of your Alumni Board is handled by twelve committees, namely: Executive, Club Activities, Class Activities, Alumni Fund and Foundation, Preparator)' Schools, Placement, Inter-Alumni Affairs, Pres­tige and Public Relations, Religion and Citizenship, Nominations, Budget, and Resolutions. Each Board member is a inember of at least three committees; each committee must study and act upon its respon­sibilities and submit a written report at each of the three meetings per year. This demands the serious atten­tion of Board members to gather information, rexiew the problem; discuss it with the Universit)' Administration if necessary; correspond and meet with other committee members; and report to tlie Board the best action for the Association. I can assure you that each committee tries hard to represent adequately all groups of Alumni, all clubs, and all classes. 
The work of the Board in 1958, under the very able and unselfish leadership of President Mike Layden was most representative of what the Board does. Considerable time and effort was expended to promote closer contact by clubs and alumni interviews through the Admissions Office, with high school juniors and seniors; to work closely with the University Job Placement Office in Alumni and Student place­ment; to assist the Foundation in one of its finest years; to promote matters of Religion and Citizenship, particularly the successful Spiritiial Bouquet for Father Hesburgh; to advise on Alumni Office organization and budget matters; to hold a Class Secretaries and Club Presidents' Conference; to initiate an all-alumni survey; to promote club activities with other universit)' graduates throughout the country; to assist in re­union affairs; and to contribute, wherever possible, to the best prestige and public relations program for Notre Dame. 
We see 1959 as a year in which all Notre Dame men must speak with just pride and confidence of the great accomplishments of Notre Dame — spiritually and materially. VVe can refer to almost any area of academic endeavor and discover a Notre Dame success story. All of us were extremely pleased recently to learn that Notre Dame has one of the nation's outstanding records in scholarship and fellowship attain­ment In 1957-58 alone, 18 Notre Dame students were honored with Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. Here Notre Dame ranks fifth in the nation — a marvelous record of achievement. I needn't mention the many other evidences of greatness. You have read of them. You should speak of them because they are the results of tremendous efforts on the part of our University Administration to contribute to the spiritual and material growth of Notre Dame. 
The Alumni Board in 1959 \vill work closely with the University Administration to foster what is best for Notre Dame. The help of All Notre Dame men is needed to maintain always the prestige and honor to which Notre Dame is entitled. 
Best personal regards. Sincerely, 
'/// 

President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 








