The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
i 

[pUFfHf 
•NOTRE 

DAME . ALUMNUS 
APRIL-iWAY, 1962 

THE HOLY SPIRIT DESCENDING (See Tongues of Fire) 
are to be an intelligent part of thi| world, it is not enough that we simply 
acquire those new developments in our business or professional life which have 

Sdltorial Comment 
the obvious priorities. 
from your Alumni Secretary 
1
HOPE YOU HAVE read the editorial 
comment on "mediation." It was not 
just a passing stress on a tenn. Nor was 
it just the ordinar)' support of an ad­
ministrative idea. 
There is a great unrest in our educa­
tion. There is a great challenge being 
voiced. And there is a searching e\'alu­
ation. 
These things have happened before. 
By the very nature of education, they 
should be heralded as a good expression 
of its vitality. 
But this time there are differences. 
The classrooms and tlie teachers, the 
administrators and the curricula, and 
of course the students, are feeling the 
impact. These are not unusual. 
The differences are that this time the 
alumnus, the community', the nation, 
business and industry', research, com­
munications, our whole lives, are af­
fected. 
Since the last time you read this column I have read the expressions of a lai^e number of leaders in the educa­tional thought of our country, projected largely on the path ahead of us. I have not gone long-hair or egghead, nor am I tiding to pose as either pedagogue or prophet. But the concerns of education have become so commonplace and so common-sense that I would not dis­charge this alumni job if I did not urge some of this thinking on all of you in turn. 
The most interesting, and the most significant, of the ideas — because in it lies the major reason for your concern and involvement—treats tlie revolution in the basic concept of education. For decades after its founding, our educa­tional system was based on the teaching of the young by the old, the handing down of the cumulative knowledge of the past to the young student of the present. Today, so rapid and so uni­versal has been the "explosion of knowl­edge" that the traditional single "ver­tical" concept has given way to the "lateral" concept as a corollary. 
This new concept is the one in which new knowledge is imparted at all levels to men of age and experience — scientists, soldiers, industrialists, writers, teachers — so that what they learned in the traditional student years is only a base of principles, a storehouse of facts frequently and increasingly obsolete. 
One of the fascinating phases of this new "lateral" concept is that very often the elders must be taught this new knowledge by the young. Because it is the young who have discovered the new and displacing approaches to the prob­lems of the world we live in — its prog­ress, its defense, its health and welfare. 
And there is another \dtal revolution in American education, which must be realized if we are to avoid the pitfalls of resistance. Our traditional education was in our schools. Today's education, adding the "lateral" dimension as it has, finds the military and industry setting up great educational machinery because the scope and the speed of 
One of the greatest problems of the world is that the frantic and frag­mented explosion of knowledge has not been accompanied by the wisdom and the control that marked the slower and more orderly development of the knowlr edge of the past. 
This is where Notre Dame and Notre Dame men can join in a magnificent contribution to our time. 
The University, holding the tradi­tional deposit of knowledge, possessing the traditional machinery of its trans­mission, knowing the theological and philosophical principles which must guide the use of all knowledge for the proper destiny of man, can bring thi. old and the new together for men of all ages and fields of endeavor. 
The development of guidance from Notre Dame to its alumni can make the acquisition of the constant new-knowledge of our day an orderly build­ing and strengthening of a leadership that is increasingly essential to this phenomenon. 
This does not mean to say that everj' alimmus \vill come back to the campus to receive in detail the growing booy of information and experience in his particular field. 


The Education Explosion 
developing and disseminating new knowledge cannot be absorbed by the schools. 
But these adaptations are still only the pressured scrambling of expediency to meet an expanding world that has outrun tlie imaginations of its inhabit­ants. 
It is at this point that we come face to face witii the great and immediate opportunity and challenge for each of us and for Notre Dame. 
The bridging of the gap between new knowledge and old in the "lateral" areas has been almost of necessity con­fined to groups and categories, where such new knowledge and skills are an immediate and vital part of progress. 
But for each of us, in all walks of life, at every age, there is this same widening gap between our traditional education in school under a teacher, and the unfolding of the wonders of the growing world around us. If we 
But every alumnus is faced with get­ting this acquisition somewhere if he is to fulfill his own obligation to himsi^ and his society. 
Every alumnus must know where to acquire, and what to acquire. 
And because there are so many sources of acquisition and so much disparity in \'alues, and because the most \'ital factors of all — moral values and the nature and destiny of man — are too often omitted in acquisition charmels, the University of Notre Dame can make this great contribution to its alumni. In turn, it can be the major contribution of education to the solC tion of the problems which progress has brought to our planet. 
I didn't get this \vay overnight. But please think and read a little along these lines — not just for Notre Dame, or your job, or the country, but foi your own fulfillment. ^-> 
—J.E..< 
liolTt Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 

,9 ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 

WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 
Honorary President WILLIAM P. MAHO.NEV, JR., '38 President 
MAURICE CARROLL, 'l2..Class  Vice-President  
ROGER J. HUTER, '40.  Club  Vice-President  
HARRY J. MEHRE , '22  Fund  Vice-President  
JAMES E . ARMSTRO.NG, '25  

„ Executive Secretary 


'^ Directors to 1963 
MAURICE CARROLL, '12 5743 Delmar Blvd. St. Louis 12, Missouri 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40* Hutcr-Qucst Co. 833 W. Main St. Louisville, Kentucky 
WiLLUM P. MAHONEV, JR., '38 612 Arizona Bank Bldg. Phoenix, Arizona 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 ^ 3155 Arden Road, N.W. 
•S .\tlanta, Georgia 

Directors to 1964 

JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 Broai'. St., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
PATRICK A. DoucHERTi-, '50 
P. O. Box 5672 Minneapolis 17, Minnesota 

W1LLIA.M H. FALLON-, '37 
100 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P. O. Box 23 ^ New Castle, Pennsylvania 

Directors to 1965 

.•ALBERT D . CASTELLI.NI, '24 506 First National Bank Bldg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FACCE.VDA, '51 1510 Ogden LaGrange, Illinois 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Road Grosse Pointe, Michigan 
l&DAM J. WALSH, '25 
• P. O. Box 349 Portland, Maine 
* -Appointed to fill unexpired tcnn of Gcoisc Con­nor, '48, who resigned under pressure of business. 

Chairmen of the 1962 Committees 
WILLIAM MAHONEY. Executive ROGER HUTER. Club Activities AiAURiCE CARROLL Class Activities JOHN DEMPSEY. 
Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts PATRICK DOUGHERTV. Student Affairs JOHN DEMPSEY. , Admissions PETER KzRNAti.J'lacement & Job Counseling ADAM WALSH Jnter-Alumni Affairs OLIVER HUNTER Public Relations ^BERT CASTELhisi-Religion & Citizenship MAURICE CARROLL AND ROGER HUTER 
dominations 


AT DBADUNE . . . 

THE LAETARE MEDAL for 1962 will be presented to Dr. Francis J. Braceland of New Haven, Conn., chief psychiatrist at the Institute for Living and clinical professor of psy­chiatry at Yale University, according to an announcement by Father Hesburgb on April 1. Dr. Braceland is the eighth physician and first psychiatrist to receive the award, presented last year to President Kennedy. . . . UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT meetings were scheduled in April and May by more than 100 Notre Dame Clubs, with themes re­lating to the responsibilities of educated laymen as outlined in the encyclical letter Mater et Magistra by Pope John XXIIL . . . SPRING ON THE CAMPUS meant base­ball, tennis, golf and a great variety of activities before the "Old-Timers" football game and Easter vacation; e.g.: Engineering Open House drew thousands to its respective auto and industrial shows in the new Stepan Center; the College Jazz Festival and the N.D. Debate Tournament brought talented representation from campuses across the land; Wash­ington's Birthday, Mardi Gras, and other events, drawing such varied celebrities as Senator Barry Goldwater, comedian Bob Hope and maestro Duke Ellington, are described in the "Student Slant" column. . . . CHALLENGE CAMPAIGN approached 90% of the goal as gifts were announced of $1 million from Laetare Medalist I. A. O'Shaughnessy (IX.D. '47) and $500,000 from former lecturer Frank Freimann, president of Magnavox Corp. Steel construction \vas "topped out" on the Memorial Library, while the Computer Center and Radiation Laboratory grew. . . . ALUMNI SECRETARY James Armstrong has been a man on the move since being named president-elect of the American Alimmi Council in Miami Beach last July. Besides his usual excursions for speeches and meetings with Notre Dame Clubs and ser\-ing as master of ceremonies for the Challenge Rally telephone net­work last fall, Jim has made official appearances and major addresses at -A.A.C. district conferences in Chicago, San -Antonio, Te.x., and Lake Tahoe, Nev.; represented the Uni­versity (with publicist James Murphy) at the dedication of the new printing plant of the national weekly Our Sunday Visitor; attended -A.A.C. board meetings in Washington, and scheduled N.D. board-class-club officer meetings for May in New York. After the annual wide-ranging Notre Dame Night circuit. May meetings and June Reunions, Jim will travel to Banff, .•\lberta, Canada, to be installed as president of the A-A.C. . . . MASS STIPENDS for alumni intentions in Masses celebrated on the campus can be sent to Rev. Ferdinand Brown, C.S.C., Superior, Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. —J . L. 
THE COVER shows Moreau 
Seminary's south well with its 
new emblem, symbolic of the 
Sacrament of Holy Orders. A 
composition representing 
the Descent of the Holy Ghost 
at Pentecost, it was donated 
by prize-winning sculptor David 
Hayes, '53, (at left) in memory 
of his late father. See pp. 8-9. 
(South Bend Tribune photos.) 





NOTRE 

CONTENT HIGHLIGHTS: 

DAME 

2: Editorial. Jim Armstrong 
3: At Deadline. Miscellany 4-5: Football Tickets. Bob Cahill 

ALUMNUS 
6: Student Slant. Terry McCarthy 
7: Theological Dynamism. Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C. 
Vol. 40, No. 2 • April-May, 1962 8-9: Tongues of Rre. 
PHILIP FACCENDA Budget & Finance 
Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C. 

WILLIAM FALLO.V Athletics 
10: Law School. 1962 Conference Editor James E. Armstrong, '25 
11: 1962 Reunions. Program Highlights 
Managing Editor John F. Laughlin, '48 This magazine is published bi-monthly by 12-13: Man and the Moment. the University of Notre Dame, Notre Celumnisl 
Rev. Thomas O'Oonnell, C.S.C. 

Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­

Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
14-47: Clubs. U.N.D. Night Previews 
ter Oct. I, 1939, at the Post OiEce, Notre 


^ Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Classes. Statistics, Spotlights Photogiaphwr M. Bruce Harlan, '49 Insert: Race Myth. William D'Antonio 
Notre Dame Alumnus, AprU-May, 1962 3 
Just prior to June 20. If you haven't,^ and you're certain of your eligibility, 

1962 SPACE CHALLENGE 
notify the Ticket Manager at once. Our envelopes are addressed by the Alumni Association, but filled and 
(between the goal lines) 
mailed by the Ticket Office, Omis­
A
LREADY ANOTHER year has rolled around. I'm sitting here in ray private office— (and private is the word — I just measured it for kicks; it's 9 X 9J4 feet, including a door in each of the four walls) wondering Iiow to lead into the dust-dr\' subject of Alumni Ticket Information for the twenty-second year. It's a bleak, cold March Saturday afternoon, a far cry from the golden autumn days aliead. If we had a window to look out of, we could see tlie steelwork skeletons of the gigantic new librar}' and the Computer Center already reaching into a gray sky immediately to the east. That lack of window is another facet of our pri­vacy down here in the basement of Breen-Phillips, a residence hall where we were assigned to "temporary" quar­ters. Let's see — that was in August of 1939, but "only until we get the new Field House," the late, beloved Fr. "Pepper" O'Donnell said tlien. Our office is completely interior. No outside window or ventilation. But it has its compensations. We don't use the stairway any more: after twelve or fourteen hours a day down here in the fall, we just burrow our way to the surface. And along about 1948 people got so they didn't even notice my pointed face. But even the dampness is going for us — we've quite a profit­able sideline, my secretar)' and I — we grow penicillin cultures on the walls and floor in the off season. And that Computer Center—that used to scare me. You know — automation will take over my job, etc., etc.; but cybernetic threats don't worry me any more. Re­member two years ago when we used an IBM card as an application form for one of our games? Big deal . . . we discovered that only people named Watson got good seats. . . . ! And how about those computers nearly iry­ing our friend John Glenn? It seems to me that any old machine that can't tell a retrorocket pack from a tliermal heat shield . . . well, you just can't trust 'em. And so, speaking of Alumni Ticket Information. . . . 
We hate to repeat all of this stuff every year to the older grads, but still we have about 1,200 new alumni gc>­ing out into the cruel world in June, 
each expecting that fifty-yard-line seat that you gave up on long ago. The least we can do is disillusion them quickly. So here it is again: 

1.
 Contributors to the Nineteenth Annual Alumni Fund in 1961, religious and honorary' degree holders, plus the June Class of 1962, are eligible for advance sale order forms for the 1962 football season. NOW HEAR THIS: A contribution recorded SINCE Janu­ary 1, 1962, affords ticket priority for 1963, but NOT for this current year of 1962. Many alumni send in a year-end donation which does not reach Foundation books until after the new year; and so their address plate is skipped for advance sale envelopes. Try to think back, and if this picture fits you, then tell the Alumni Office NOW to credit you for a 1961 contri­bution. 

2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20, closes July 16. Any order filed after that date, regardless of the cate­gory of order form used, will receive general use treatment. Nor is an order filed before July 16 guaranteed a pre­ferred location (see Paragraph 4). 

3.
 The "Alumni Advance Sale" or­der form carries this designation in bold type on its face for ready identification. Elirible alumni should receive these 


BOB CAHILL, '34 Athletic Ticket Manager 

sions are usually caused by address changes, so if your address differs from that used for this issue of the ALUM­NUS, foni'ard that change AT ONCE to the Alumni Office. Envelopes are addressed in May, and changes aftei^ May 10 are diflficult. 
4. Advance Sale forms are limited to two tickets per game, are not trans­ferable, will be honored until July 16 or until the ticket supply is exhausted. SEATS ARE ALLOTTED IN AC­CORDANCE AVITH DATE RE­CEIVED, modified only as follows: Orders arriving BEFORE opening davs (June 20) are integrated at randonr"^ with those received on June 20. Then, at close of business June 20, all appli­cations received at that point are thor­oughly shuffled. DRAWN BY LOT AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUMBER to establish die order of seat assignment for each game for all orders on hand opening day. Since three or four thousand orders for each of the more popular games will arrive for processing on June 20 (accountinj). for six or eight thousand tickets), ob­viously even a first-day order for such games could be on the fifty or beyond the goal line. DEPENDING ON THE LUCK OF THE DRAW, This is the answer to tlie alumnus' question as to why, although he ordered for all games on the ver)' first day, he may receive fine seats for one game, poor ones foe another (or fine seats for all; or po<»' seats for all). After Monogram and Season ticket (more about Season tickets below) orders are satisfied, ONLY 4,000 TICKETS ARE AVAII^ 
ABLE BETWEEN THE GOAL AND FIFTY IN THE ALUMNI SEC­TION. Hence, for the more popular games, it is readily seen that a first-day order could fare poorly; and an alumnus waiting to file his order until July 1 or after can look for nothing but seats behind the north goal (pleas^ look at the diagram). Games away from home (Navy at Philadelphia ex­cepted) present even more seating problems because of the normally small allotment available to the visiting team in proportion to the geographical bal­ance of our following. 
5. General Use ticket applications 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 

^as/mmtsMiaammasmamB 
^ar e mailed annually to ALL alumni the latter part of July, prior to the August 1 opening of public sale. While it is possible that Advance Sale de­scribed above could claim our entire ticket supply, as of now we feel there will be public sale for all games. Gen­eral Use forms are transferable and usually valid for unlimited quantity of tickets. The contributing alumnus who has already used his Advance Sale form 
•^or two tickets may place additional orders via the General form. More­over, the General Use form is a con­venient reminder to the noncontri­buting alumnus tJiat tickets are avail­able. These General forms carry no locational preference, for all such or­ders are filled after Advance Sale pur­chases. 
._ 6. Public sale opens annually on 
"August 1. The Ticket Committee will be glad to send public order forms to any addressee upon request as long as tickets are available. 
7. Alumni Clubs planning on a block of tickets for an e.vcursion must file a request with the Ticket Manager BY JUNE 20. Final action on block orders may not be taken until individual sale closes July 16, and then only if suffi­
cient tickets remain. However, a ten­lative reservation will be made and an Alumni Club will be given preference in case of short supply. For some games no groups EXCEPT Alumni Clubs may be considered. But as to seat locations for groups, the following is positive: BLOCK ORDERS ARE FILLED FROM SEATS REMAIN­
NOTRE DAUt 
CMr^^ 4 -3 

'-i'J,­
ING AFTER ALL INDIVIDUAL ORDERS HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED. THIS PERMITS ONLY END ZONE SEATS, INVARIABLY. 
8. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising au-ards. Be­cause of the problems described in Paragraph 4, unless a Club member (or members) surrenders his Advance Sale privilege for the game desired, tickets for prizes must be of the general sale variety. 

THE SEASON TICKET SITUATION 
Eacli year, many alumni inquire as to whether it is to their advantage to use Alumni Advance order blanks, game by game, or buy a Season Ticket, which admits to all of the home games. The answer depends on what tlie alumnus wants. If t^vo tickets meet his needs, then he should use his Alumni Advance privilege. Although this privilege doesn't guarantee pre­ferred location (again see Paragraph 4), still the opportunity is there. With the Season Ticket there is no alumni preference, and only end zone seats are available. It is renewable automatical­ly each May 1, however, with no quan­tity limit If location is not paramount, an alumnus may assure himself of any quantity of tickets for each game re­newable each year via tlie Season Ticket plan. Alumni might presume, after looking over the stadium diagram, that the Season Ticket locations shown in the alumni sections (Sections 8 and 
9) are held by, and available to, alumni 

 STAOIUH 
6 
GATC-7 
re-S 

^v_C^ X.O ' ^ i;:-.=-~r~_­ Afmnm (var!otil«)  
S*oMn Tickets and Faculty  
M5i^:^t^(^Ji^  V.».t,ng T.am (.ariabU]  IS.  
I Univtrtily Aflminittrntian  MTC-IO  
I iti/dtnt 8wlf  [19.  

inc-ll 
"oifE-IS

OATt-M 
1962 roOTBAU SCHEDULE 
September 29 Oklahoma at Norman October 6 PURDUE AT NOTRE DAME October 13 Wisconsin at Madison October 20 MICHIGAN STATE AT NOTRE DAME October 27 Northwestern at Evanston November 3 Navy at Philadelphia November 10 
PiTTSBUROH AT NOTRE DAME 
November 17 NORTH CJAROLINA AT NOTRE DAME November 24 IOWA AT NOTRE DAME December 1 Southern California at lios Angeles 
only. Such h not the case. These Sea­son Tickets were available to anyone prior to 1943, when the alumni sec­tion was raoT& than adequate. Because of the renewal feature of Season Tickets, removal of these patrons from alumni sections is a slow process. How­ever, we have not sold any Season Tickets in Sections 8 and 9 SINCE 1942. The Season Ticket sale opens annually on May 1 and we shall be glad to send complete information upon request. 
The seating problem for our games has not been eased by the temporary decline of our varsity as a major \vm.­ner. This is due to your admirable loyalty, the thousands of friends who \vdll always follow Notre Dame, and of course the dissidents who enjoy see­ing the once-mighty humbled. Per­haps the latter should have their in­ning, but let's hope we get the side out soon. And remember—to reach the point whereby everyone attending a game in Notre Dame Staditun occu­pies a sideline seat, only 20,000 would be there, including our 6,000 students. So who wants that kind of Utopia? Not the Ticket Manager! I'll continue to field the complaints, any time. And if you've read this far . . . we were only semiserious at the b^;inning— about our office space. We could have scrounged better accommodations, but we prefer to stay here in solitary, -wait for the new Field Houses and continue that proud old Notre Dame tradition of griping! See you this fall. . . . 
ATo/re Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
T 
IME MACAZI.NE'S cover article (Feb. 9. 
1962) bestowed recognition upon Fr. 
Hesburgh's many public services for our 
country and the Church. This tribute to 
Notre Dame's president and to the anima­
tion of higher learning at the Univcrsitj', 
unveiled a proud public image of achieve­
ment. 
Some allusions in this article, however, give cause for clarification, especially for whomsoever's interests are closest to Notre Dame's hope for unexcelled Christian edu­cation. Outstanding among points of further discussion is the controverted position of theology at Notre Dame, for upon the qual­it>- and magnetism of theologj' as queen of the sciences rests the final significance of any Catholic university such as Notre Dame is dedicated to create. 
The article in Time reprcsemed a general statement about deficiencies in the past and a possibly too sanguine view of the future. Let us consider more closely the facts. 
Since the time of the Reformation, Cath­olic ivisdom has seldom seemed relevant to universitj- theoIog>-. Universities and Cath­olic theologians have not walked arm in arm. Theology has been generally relegated to professional training for future priests. Because of such a divorce between Catholic theolog>- and a universit)- environment, many are convinced that the science has not de­veloped as it might. 
Compounded with this regrettable es­trangement is the historical confusion occa­sioned by the heresj- of Modernism early in this centur)-. The Church emphasized that the affirmation of supernatural faith cannot depend exclusively upon profane science. In confronting Modernism a strategic with­drawal was deemed necessar)- at that time. Since then we Catholics have been too hesi­tant to move away from the cloud of that danger. (Recent Catholic-Protestant private dialogues, in which Notre Dame professors are active, are perhaps the herald of a brighter day.) 
.As part of the ninetcenth-centur>- his­torical milieu, Notre Dame suffered this ghetto isolation. The University always had men of real vision and interest in the Church, nonetheless. In many cases the religious formation of the students at Notre Dame was carried on pastorally and per­sonally by priests of the calibre of the late Cardinal O'Hara. Intensely concerned about the spiritual life of their students, the ap­proach of the Holy Cross religious was in terms of what they honestly judged best wthin circumstances of that time. 
In the early years there were men who were first-rate teachers of religion. Yet this 





Theological Difnamism At Notre Dame 
was by accident rather than design. That religion was a classroom subject at the Universit)' from the beginning is correct, but not until 1920 was it given a regular place in the curriculum. From that time forward faculty were assigned to teach reli­gion along with their other classes. The pattern at Notre Dame was not particularly different from that of other schools with the same historical background. 
Shortly after the second World War when the young Father Hesburgh returned to Notre Dame with his doctorate in theolog)-, he was assigned to head the Department of Religion. There were then almost no full-time teachers of religion. Father Hesburgh and others, such as Father Sheedy, Father Simonitsch, ct. al., saw the need for tighter organization, teacher training, and the \vrlt­
ing of university texts. This challenge they met with vigor, and their influence within the department was to extend for many years. In comparison with the vast majority* of Catholic colleges of that time, Notre Dame had taken a truly for\v-ard step. How­ever, the task was just beginning. 
In a broader theological pattern the Notre Dame vision was part of a theological ren­aissance which began in the forties. In this era it was the encych'cal "Div'ino Afflante Spiritu" (1943) which gave a tremendous impetus to the modem Catholic scriptural movement. The magnificent scriptural de­velopments coming out of this movement are strongly influencing theology at Notre Dame today. 
During these same years the litui^"cal movement was gathering momentum. The late Father Michael Mathis, C.S.C, a re­nowned liturgiologist, established a Center of Graduate Liturgical Studies at Notre Dame which continues to draw scholars and students from various countries. The Uni­versity developed this program to the point where it is now considered "one of the out­standing instances of American Catholic academic excellence" {Worship, March: J 962, p. 282). Father D. James Sullivan, C.S.C, is entrusted with the direction of the Liturgy Program, which is administered by the Theolog)' Department. 
On the undergraduate level there have also been extensive, yet fruitful revisions in the curriculum. Experimental pains are still being felt, but results are emerging. A sound honors program in theolog)- has been initiated for our best undergraduates. We are also correlating our courses more spe­cifically with the best of contemporarj' literature. 
For ad\'anced students we presently offer during the year a Graduate Program in 

REV. ROBERT S. PELTON, C.S.C, '45 Head, Department of Theology M 
Theology at the University. It considers Christianity in terms of living historical in­sights. This represents a fresh approach to Catholic theolog)' in the United States. Now, during the second year of this program, there are a number of la)'men enrolled. Since its inception, two Danforth scholars have chosen Notre Dame as the university for their advanced studies. 
The Summer Graduate Program in The­olog)' is proving to be one of the stronge^ centers for the training of teachers in Sacred Doctrine. Last year in both theolog)' and liturg)' there were more than two hundred graduate students enrolled at the Universit)-. 
In August the first of sLx yearly Institutes for Local Religious Superiors will take place. The theme — The Theolog)' of the .\posto­
late — has been carefully developed after consultation mth the Sister Formation Con­ference and the Conference of Major Su­periors for Women. .'Vlready over one thovB sand applications have been received. 

Many other examples could be given in­dicating a serious theological attitude at Notre Dame. In the current semester, of the tvventy-seven faculty members teaching courses in the department, sixteen hold the doctorate or its equivalent. (This is quite different from 1946, when only one man had earned the doctorate.) One of our faculty members is president of the Ameri­can Catholic Mariological Society. Another is on the national board of directors for the Catholic College Teachers of Sacred Doctrine. A third is a member of the na­tional directorate for the Liturgical Ccm, ference. A fourth is the president of FioR Publishers. 
We may say without hesitation that real dedication is being given to the d)'namics of a modem Christian theology at Notre Dame. The Time reference has given us an occasion to state this. We would also hope that the Time article will pro\'ide the in­centive for an even more vigorous commQ) ment to our serious obligation. 
6 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
By Terry McCarthy 
Secrefary, Notre Oame Class of 1962 


-CH^ 
J 
N AN ATMOSPHERE which included the failure of IBM registration [human rather than mechanical error 3vas blamed for the breakdown. Ed.] along with the continued advance ai the future librar)', students embarked into second semester. A small minority were like the IBM registration, n-hile the vast majority continue in our aca­demic community. To supplement the intellectualism of the classroom there were many high lights among the activities scheduled. These will be of 
(Jjoncem in our "slant" for today. This semester would feature Wash­ington Day Exercises which included Bob Hope as the recipient of the Patriotism Award, the Notre Dame Mardi Gras, the Marriage Institute and the various class formals. On January 9, 1962, Senator Barrj' Goldwater of Arizona was on campus. The context of his address was the "struggle between Communism and the West" and how every American has a 'Hal and important part in this struggle. The Senator contended that this con­flict could be expressed on theological terms, because Communism regards man as a thing, a "belly to be filled," while \Vestem philosophy holds man as an immortal essence. An oveiflow audience showed tiieir appreciation by giving Senator Goldwater a standing (fc'ation at the conclusion of his talk. The annual \\'ashington Day Exer­cises were commenced widi tlie Memo­rial Mass celebrated in Sacred Heart Church in honor of all Notre Dame men who died while engaged in the service of their countr)'. As a part of these e-xercises. Bob Hope journeyed to Notre Dame on February 27di to re­ceive the seventh annual Patriotism Award. The senior class feels that Mr. Hope exemplifies the American ideals of justice, personal integrity and service  country and has displayed In'mself most worthy of this award. In liis gag-filled acceptance he conveyed some of die pride he feels in having logged more than 2,000,000 miles entertaining 
American servicemen since ^VorId War II. ^The New Orleans Mardi Gras spirit 
h:t the campus from March 2 to 6. 
A 

^y 
5l<*' 
The Notre Dame Mardi Gras, which is considered the third largest college week end in the country, began with a ball featuring the music of Duke Ellington. The week end continued with games of chance and fun, with the final day culminating in the picking of prize \vinners. The two big prizes were a new Cadillac for die grand winner and a student prize of a new Con'ette! 
With the coming of Lent the seniors have had the opportunity to attend the Marriage Institute. The nuptial lectures can substitute for the Pre-Cana Conferences, which are primarily to prepare Catholics for their duties and obligations encountered in marriage. These lectures are highly popular among students and arc always well attended. 
Perhaps we should turn to what could be called "special notices." It was with a certain amount of pride that students looked upon the Febniar)­9th issue of Time magazine. The cover featured Rev. Theodore Mardn Hes-burgh, C.S.C., our University's presi­dent. The article under "Education" touched on Father Hesburgh, die Li­brary, the Radiation Project and the rapid rise in University prestige to keynote -a survey of Catholic higher education. However, some students question the broad objective nature of the article and feel that a more subject-centered treatment would have given a better conception of Notre Dame as a University. 
News affecting the students most intimately is the Stay Hall method of residence, which will begin a trial period ne.xt year. This measure passed a campus-wide referendum by a slim majority. The plan will operate on a "flow diagram," with options contin­gent on vacancies created by upper­classmen. More precise details will be given at a later date, probably by my successor. 
On the athletic side of the picture we take note of the many students who have undergone rigid physical training for the March Bengal Bouts. Dominick "Nappy" Napolitano, '32, began his thirty-first year as the super­\Tsor of the boxing technique taught and fostered in students. They vied for the championships in bouts held March 23rd. Moving from one contact sport to another we find that spring football drills have begun in prepara­tion for the "Old-Timers Game." Captain-elect Mike Lind, the bruising fullback from Chicago, will lead the 1962 "Fighting Irish" against the old-timers on April 14, 1962. 
That concludes the campus slant for now! Look for my first "alumni slant" in July. 

RADIATION LABORATORY, under construction this spring, was uiHlerwrittai by tlie U.S. Atomic Energy Commission as a center for a researcii organizatioa invetigatnig tlic cliemical and piiysical eiTects of radiation on matter. It wili'stand on a new east quadrangle in tlic shadoiv of the 13-stary Memorial Library, also under constnictioii. 
N^tre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 

A 
YOUNG NOTRE DAME sculptor, Dave The day was busy. Ever>'thing centered Hayes, '53, has contributed a wonder­around the Main Building. The boys got ful copper-sculpture group for the outside their classes in one office; they paid their wall of Moreau Seminary. Overlooking the bills in another: and finally, there was the lake, these numerous-—fourteen, I believe president to see! — green-colored, wing-shaped "abstractions" Father Walsh recalls that he was sitting represent the Descent of the Holy Ghost at in his office — right across from the Presi­Pentecost. Seen from across the lake, they dent's Office — and there came a healthy resemble the outline of one dove. Hayes pounding at his door. He called "Come discussed with Father Lauck the design he in," and he was face to face with a rather had in mind, and they decided that the ac­worn-looking young fellow, who stuck out complished figure should be the one. From his hand and said abruptly: "Dave Hayes, the picture, you can get an idea of the size Father." They chatted awhile, and FaUier and position of these copper-sculptured ob­Walsh began remembering something he jects. had seen in the newspapers shortly before; 
Hayes is another among the numerous it was a picture illustrating how Eastern father-son graduates of Notre Dame, Father colleges got their athletes: it showed a wom­Matthew Walsh told me the stor>- of the an on a porch, saj-ing to a group of high-first Dave Hayes recently. I think it would collared, hard-hat-covered men: "You got be of interest to all of you. The father of one of my boys for Har\-ard; another went the sculptor, himself a Dave Hayes, came to to Yale; and still another went to Dart­Notre Dame before World War I. Father mouth. Dave, here, I'm going to save for John W. Cavanaugh was president, and something else." Father Walsh, vice-president. In those days These few moments Father Walsh had 
— the school \vas small — the president saw been wondering if this Dave could be the and talked to all newcomers. one pictured in the paper. 
Sculptor Son Honors His Famous Father in 
IN MEMORIAM 
DAVID V. HAYES, '21 

REV. ANTHONY LAUCK, C.S.C., art department head and an early mentor, inspects Morcau Seminary sculpture. The Descent of Holy Ghost at Pentecost, by David Hayes, '53, in memory of his father. The sculptor, whose welded work was shown in "Poet with a Blowtorch" (Year End, I960), was awarded Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships for two years' study in Europe and lives near Paris with wife Julia, sons Dand and Brian. 
By ^ 
REV. ARTHUR J. HOPE, C.S.C, '20 
University Historian and Editor of the Holy Cross Fathers (Indiana) Province Review, from which this article is adapted. 
"Did you have a brother who went to Har\-ard?" 
"Yes." 

".Another who attended Yale?" M, 
"Yes." * 
"And another who went to Dartmouth?" 
"Yes Why did you ask?" 
"Because I saw your picture in the paper." 
After some few words more. Father Walsh asked him if he had signed up yet. "No, I have not." 
"How did you get out here?" 
"Well," said Dave after some slight hesi­tation, "I had no money, so I rode the rods. .. . I guess I look it!" 
* * * M 
Father Walsh was captivated by young Hayes. He told the story to Father Cav­anaugh. The president, when he met the young fellow, was verj- much taken with the young man's story. He offered to give Hayes free tuition at Notre Dame if he, Hayes, could find some way of taking care of his meals and his room. 
Later on. Father Walsh heard the stor>­from Dave. He had gone around South Bend looking for a place to work for his meals. He landed at the cigar store, well known by old Notre Dame men — Hulley and Mike's. Dave talked to Hulley abou j his predicament. He told him of what Father Cavanaugh was going to do for him, and Hulley offered him his meals if he would wash the dishes ever\* day. It was agreed. 
Now to get a room. Dave went to what was known then as the Indiana Club (not the swank place of today), and he finally arranged for a bed in the basement if he would s^veep the place out daily. 

Now  he  was  fixed.  He  reported  so  t ^  
Father Walsh.  •  
»  *  •  

In those days, there was a wealthy fellow from Iowa who had two sons at Notre Dame. One of them %vas not as mentally alert as might be hoped. But it was one of those things: the boy had to be kept away from home, interested in physical things like box­ing, racing, skating and the like. His father was willing to pay for some student who would interest himself in his handicapped son. Dave was selected. Ever)' month the father sent him twent>' dollars to pay for the sen-ice. 
In the meantime, Hayes went out for football. He became acquainted wilA Rockne, and played a bit on the Freshman team. 
Then war broke out—1917. Dave dis­appeared. Only later did Father Walsh learn that he had enlisted. 
Father Walsh himself went to war, as a chaplain, of course. But when he was in France, he heard a doctor—Jesse Ross, a Notre Dame man — tell the story about 4|, fellow who had been wounded on the fielcT 
8 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 

Conception to Completion: 

Evolution of a Memorial 

FORGED METAL 'TONGUES' were lowered on ropes from the Seminary roof and fixed in place with wooden pegs 
It was at night. The wounded soldier kept calling out: "Where arc all the Notre Dame men? ^Vherc are the Notre Dame 
J»ien?" 
He was brought in for surgerj*. He was pretty badly banged up. Doctor Ross, hear­ing him (in his delirium) calling for Notre Dame men, said to him: "I'm a Notre Dame man!" And immediately Dave Hayes recovered his senses. 
It was a long time, however, before he was able to return to Notre Dame. In the .Jneantirae, Rockne had taken charge of the team, and had written to Dave that Notre 
THEN BOLTED in position on a wall facing St. Joseph's Lake and visible from the campus side. 
Dame would have a pretty good outfit in the fall. Dave answered: "Maybe I'm in poor shape now, but when the whistle blows, I'll be in there plowing away!" 
When Dave showed up on the campus, he was on crutches. But he did get out for football, and made a wonderful record as an end. In the meantime, he began to look more "prosperous," entered the law college, kept up his work for the poor retarded fel­low from Iowa, was universally liked. 
* * « 

Then came graduation in 1921. Dave's name came up as a winner of a gold watch 
ROUGH MODEL, one of several studies made for the' final semi-abstraction, recalls St. Luke (in Acts, 2:3): "And there appeared to them parted tongues as of fire." From a distance the "tongues" combine to form the shape of a dove, anotber symbol for God the Holy Spirit. The Third Person of the Blessed Trinity, imparted to Holy Cross priests at ordination, informs the celebrated "Spirit of Notre Dame" of which the late Dave Hayes was a great embodiment Submitted last summer, the model was approved and a final version was shaped in sheet copper and given its green patina in Hayes' Connecticut studio. 
for the excellence of his record. Father Walsh looked forward to a good talk with him before leaving. Dave didn't show up that day. Instead, he came a day later, "just to have more time for a good con%'ersation before I leave." 
There was a reference to Dave's arrival at Notre Dame, a dingy and tired boy; his hard work trj-ing to keep himself in food and shelter; the generosity of Father Cav­anaugh and Father Bums; his success in his classes. 
"Now, what?" asked the vice-president. 

"I'm going back to Hartford and see what I can find. First, though, there's this." Hayes reached into his pocket and pulled out a number of twenty dollar bills. "I ivant to give this for the alumni fund." 
Father Walsh was hesitant. He knew how hard the boy had worked and how little he had. "What are you going to do for money?" . . . There was a smile on the-face of the boy. He put both hands in his side-pockets, pulled them out empty—he had done that same thing years before in Father Walsh's room when he had first come from Hartford. 
"I came here empty handed. I'll go back the same way. I'll find something, don't worr>-!" 
* • * The story of Dave Hayes and his won­derful Notre Dame spirit is worth recording. He went back to Connecticut, began work­ing in law, did very well, financially, so­cially and spiritually. He married happily; sent both boys to college and his girl, too. When he died, November 14, 1956, Father Walsh went on to the funeral. The goodness, the likeableness of Dave Hayes, was raanifested in the great crowd of Notre. Dame men who came for his requiem. I think the story is worth recalling. One understands now why his son, Dave the: young sculptor, wants his father's name re­membered at Our Lady's school. Thc­"Tongues of Fire," so vividly illustrated on: the wall of Moreau Seminary, will serve to-remind us of what a great Notre Dame man^ can be like. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
News of the 
NOTRE DAME 


LAW SCHOOL 
FACULTY 
In a recent issue of the Polish re\aew Panstwo i Prawo (State and Law) there is an article by Professor Seidler, President of the Maria Curie-Sklodow­ska Universit)' in Lublin, about natural law in the United States. Notre Dame is mentioned, and tliere are references to the writings of Professors Barrett and Chroust and Dean O'Meara. 
Professor Thomas F. Broden, Jr. has been appointed to the Soutli Bend Fair Employment Practices Commission. 
Professor W. J. Wagner has been invited to be a member of die board of editors of a new review of com­parative law, the first issue of which will appear in Cairo next October. It will be published in English and French. 
Professor Robert E. Rodes, Jr. has an original approach to the church-state problem, that is, by way of l^al history. His hypothesis is that tlie Church of England, being a loose federation of diverse creeds, may fairly be compared to the unfederated diver­sity of creeds in this countr)'; and, accordingly, that the relationship in England between church and state should afford insights of value to us in the United States. He spent 1960-61 at Oxford Universit)' in England, work­ing on this subject as the holder of a Ford Foundation Law Facultj' Fellow­ship. Three public lectures, the first fruit of tliat year at O.xford, were delivered in Februar\' in the Rockne Memorial Lounge. 
Professor John T. Noonan, Jr., Editor of the Natural Law Forum, read a paper on "Morality as a Model for International Law," at a recent meet­ing of the American Society for L^al History in Washington, D. G. 
" Professor Noonan lectured in Novem­ber at New York University Law School on "The History of the Privilege Against Self-incrimination," and in March spoke at Newton College of the Sacred Heart on "The Concept of Law." He has scheduled lectures at Barnard Collie and the University of Chicago in April. 
'10 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 

To: Members of the Notre Dome Law Association # Subject: Campus Conference, 'Tlie Trial Lawyer," June 6-7-8 
TH E NOTRE DAME LAW ASSOCIATION has scheduled a Lawyers' Conference for June 6tli, 7th and 8tli this year. The topic will be "TH E TRIAL LAWYER — 1962." Attorneys from the fifty states of the Union are e-xpected to attend. The Conference will bring to Notre Dame some of the most outstanding* trial lawyers in the United States. The list of panelists includes such outstanding lawyers as EJIILE ZOLA BERJIAN of the New York Bar, famous defense counsel in the Marine death march case several years ago; EDWARD BENNETT WILLIAMS of Washington, D.C., prominent criminal lawyer; JOSEPH L. ALIOTO, anti-trust specialist of San Francisco, California, and counsel recently engaged in the DuPont stock case; JOHN PAUL STEVENS, Chicago anti-trust specialist; LEON JAWORSKI of Houston, Te.\as, former chief U.S. prosecutor in European war crimes trials.w The program will include participation by the Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals and prominent Federal Judges. It will be divided into four panels and will give particular attention to the problem of preparing and trying cases in the criminal courts, anti-trust actions, negligence trials, and presentation of proof before administrative agencies. 
The Conference is planned to coincide with the reunion week end. It will open with dinner on Wednesday evening in the Morris Inn, and will conclud^ at lunch on Friday, June 8th, so as to permit the 5-year reunion men to join their class actiNdties at that time. Arrangements are being made to house lawyers attending the Conference on the Campus. Appro.ximately 250 la\vyers are expected to attend this outstanding seminar. The Attorney General of the United States was in\ited to address the Conference on Thursday evening, June 7di. Since he regretfully declined, an invitation has been cvtended to his associate. Supreme Court Justice-designate BYRON "WHIZZER" WHITE. 
Alumni and friends of the University who are practicing law or who are otherwise interested in the law, may enroll now by addressing a note to DEAN JOSEPH O'MEARA, Notre Dame Law School, Notre Dame, Indiana. A fee of $50.00 will be charged for the 3-day Conference. This will include dinner on Wednesday evening, housing, and two luncheons. The golf course and pool of the University will be available to the participants of the Conference for after hours recreation. 
The Law School Association is planning to record portions of the TridB-' Lawyers Conference on film to be used in its national recruitment program. 
Very truly yours. 
William B. Lawless 
President, Notre Dame Law Association. 







NOTRE DAME CLASS REUNION WEEK END 
JUNE 8-9-10. 1962 

FRIDAY, JUNE 8 GENERAL REGISTRATION Law Building 
One fee, $20, will be collected at registration which will cover all general expenses and, except for those notified otherwise. Class expenses. 
Those who have pre-registered will also report to the 
•l.aw Building for receipt and identification. All who sub­mit the general fee in advance will be assured of location with their Class. 

CLASS REGISTRATION AND ROOM 
Registrafion will be in the halls as listed: 
HEADQUARTERS:  
-Class  of  1912  Alumni  Hall  
Class of  1917  Alumni  Hall  
Class of  1922  Alumni  Hall  
Class of  1927  Alumni  Hall  
Closs of  1932  Howard  Hall  
Class of 1937  Lyons Hall  
Class of  1942  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1947  Dillon  Hall  
•Class  of  1952  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1957  Dillon  Hall  


CLASS EVENTS: Scheduled on Friday Night 
(TentaKve Locations) 1912 Golden Jubilee Class, Dinner, Golfers' Lounge, Morris Inn 1917 Class Dinner, B. J. Voll Residence ^921 Class Dinner, Private Dining Room, Morris Inn 1927 Class Dinner, Mahogany Room, Morris Inn 1932 Class Dinner, Private Dining Room, Morris Inn 1937 Silver Jubilee Class Dinner, North Dining Hall 
1942 Class Dinner, North Dining Hall 
1947 Class Dinner, North Dining Hall 
^952 Class Dinner, North Dining Hall 
1957 Class Buffet, Dillon Court 


Week End GOLF TOURNAMENT 
*BegiHS FRIDAY 

LAW ASSOCIATION CONFERENCE 
"THE TRIAL LAWYER — 1962" Wednesday, June 6, to Friday, June 8 

SPECIAL MONOGRAM GOLF DAY* 
(Monogram Club Only) Thursday, June 7 (all day) 
MONOGRAM CLUB HEADQUARTERS 
ALUMNI HALL 


MONOGRAM CLUB COCKTAIL PARTY, DINNER, ANNUAL MEETING 
6:30 p.m., Thursday — Morris Inn 
*Golf Course Rcgulatiims specify Itrng trousers 


SATURDAY. JUNE 9 CLASS MASSES — Hall Chapels CLASS PICTURES — Library 
GOLF TOURNAMENT* — All Day 
PRESIDENT'S LUNCHEON — 25-Year Class BOX LUNCHES for other Reunion Classes TOURS of the New Campus — All Day 


EDUCATION FOR RESPONSIBILITY 
11 A.M. TO 4 P.M. Varied Lectures and Open Houses in the Colleges Law Association Reception 

ANNUAL ALUMNI BANQUET 
SATURDAY EVENING, North Dining Hall 



SUNDAY, JUNE 10 
• ANNUAL ALUMNI MASS 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 11 
TWO ACTIVITIES at Camp Sebaik, in addition to the religious obsert-ances to be expected in a camp conducted by the Holy Cross Fathers, are shown: in the forcgrouod, skilled instruction in handicraft; in the background, water sports, typified by a water skier gliding past the window across clear I4-niile expanse of Lake Sebago. 
In Maine 'C. S. C Stands for 


Camp Sebaik Camper 
Any Notre Dame alunmus, traveling or vacationing in the Sebago Lake Region of Maine during the summer camping season, if he has a sharp eye, may spot the familiar "C.S.C." insignia of the Holy Cross Fathers on a number of camp imiforms. If so, he will know that he is in the vicinity of Camp Sebaik, the boys' camp established by 
•the Holy Cross Fathers of the Eastern Province in 1960, and about to begin its third year of operation this coming summer of 1962. 
The Director of Camp Sebaik is Rev. Joseph A. Hanna, C.S.C, '35. He is ably assisted by Rev. Frank A. Toste, C.S.C, and the hand-picked camping talents of Holy Cross brothers and seminarians, all qualified to carry out a full program of camping activities — archery, arts and crafts, baseball, basket­ball, canoeing, fishing, hikes, nature study, pioneer camping, riflery, swim­ming, tetmis, water-skiing, and weight­lifting. 
Camp Sebaik is located on the west shore of fourteen-mile long Sebago Lake, the tenth largest natural lake in the United States. Thirty miles 
J2 Tfotre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
equidistant from the Atlantic Ocean at Portland, Maine, and the White Mountains of New Hampshire, the camp is topogi-aphically idea] for ever)' camping e.\perience a boy could wish. Sons of Notre Dame alumni Bob Devine, '34, and Clay Johnson, '36, have already foimd their way to Camp Sebaik from Connecticut and New York, and tliere are assurances that other Eastern areas and the State of Ohio vtili be represented at the camp this coming simimer. 
During the formative years, seven to fifteeii (the age-limits of the campers) when young boys are coming alive to the realities of nature and grace. Camp Sebaik offers an ideal combination of the natural and tlie supernatural in camping. This camp is another tra­ditional evidence of the Holy Cross Fathers' concern in behalf of the apos­tolate of youth, especially in the im­portant and ever-growing field of American and Catholic camping. 
For fiuther information about Camp Sebaik, please contact: Rev. Joseph A. Hanna, C.S.C, 835 Clinton Avenue, Bridgeport, Conn. 
M
ANY VISITORS who come to Notre^ 
Dame are greatly impressed by 

the beauty of Sacred Heart Church. 
From the outside, and at first glance, 
the church is like any other church 
that has not gone modem. You know 
exactly what it is when you see it The 
steeple edges its way up against the 
clouds and the cross on top is visible 
for miles. I'm going to give some his­
torical facts and architectural figures — 
so you will know more about your" 
campus even though you have been 
away from it. 
Vita! Statistics 

The church of the Sacred Heart is built in the form of a Latin cross — 275 feet long and 114 feet wide at the transept The foundations were laid on the Feast of the Immaculate Con­ception, in 1870. Archbishop Furcell^ of Cinciimati, on May 31, 1871, blessed the cornerstone. The period of con­struction was slow. The steeple was not added until 1893, but a large por­tion of the church ^»'as ready in 1875 when Father Granger celebrated Mass in it. The consecration of the church was on August 15, 1888, and was per­formed by Bishop Joseph Dwenger of Fort Wayne. The church includes a chancel and seven apsidal chapels and houses t%vent)'-two chapels. " 
The Windows and Altar 

The stained glass windows are one of the chief glories of the church. The remarkable mosaics of glowing colors were designed, and the making was supervised, by the Carmelite nuns of Le Mans, France. There are 42 large windows containing 114 life-size pic ^ tures and 106 small ones. Each of those in tlie body of the church, which were installed in 1873, is divided into five compartments. Four of these con­tain life size figures of virgins, martyrs and confessors surmounting a minia­ture of some scene in the life of the saint At the top of the windows a fifth section presents a scene from tlie Old Testament The largest and most beautiful are at the ends of the tran­sept . . . the one above the east door is "The Descent of the Holy Ghost,'# and the other "The Death of the Blessed Virgin." 
The main altar is from the church of St Etienne in Beauvais, France. The altar had been sent to Philadelphia for the Centennial Exposition. It was there that Father Sorin purchased it. Th ^ altar's carvings (and I hope to write ^o f these at another time) represent a ^symbolism as perfect as that of the 
great artisans of the Middle Ages, tell the story ol the 21st chapter of the Apocalypse. Under this high altar rests 

MAN and the 
a box containing relics of the body of 
St Phileas which were removed from 
tlie cemetery of St. Callistus in Rome 


MOMENT 
(with the permission of the Pope). Also under the main altar is the relic of the head of a martyr soldier of the 
• Theban Legion obtained from Cologne By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 through Mother Angela, C.S.C., in 1877. More about the altar and the 
altars later. Now a few words about faith, with the best sentiments of their more beautiful, what of it, if there w; the Tabernacle. I quote from the Scho­hearts and those of their children for­no altar in it where to offer the Ho, lastic of November, 1873: ever. Sacrifice, no 'Tabernacle where Go 
"It is indeed gratifying to see the "Nor is this subject of a new Taber­would reside with the sons of men real spirit of Faith which prompts many nacle irrelevant of our general scope, St. Paul's in London is a large churcl a generous soul around us. It was only the honor of the Modier of God. We the ne.\t in the world in dimensior 
the other day that a gentle call was are building here a temple to be after St. Peter's in Rome; and yet th most ordinary and modest Catholi Church is infinitely superior to it, be cause of its Tabernacle that makes i 
Meanwhile Back on the Campus . . 'the House of God.' " Old Father Sorin was very much : fund-raiser. And people, then as now 
Saered Heart Church Revisited: 
wanted to know the price of thing: And with reason. It is natural to ask Part Two of on Interrupted Series Father Sorin, the man for that moment must have had books on fund-raisins hidden in his beard. Next time I'll tel made among our Catholic friends to dedicated to Our Lady of the Sacred you how he answered a question oi 
laid in procuring a beautiful Tabernacle, Heart. We expect to see it an acknowl­how much the new Tabernacle woulc and already over eight hundred dollars edged monument; but were it ten times cost. have been subscribed. Surely there can be no spirit of ostentation in the bright opening of this list; for after a few months of exhibition in the University parlor, where vkitors will have an opportunity to examine the new Taber­nacle at leisure, and to see the names 
of the donors engraved on the gold 'plates, these names shall be forever withdrawn from public gaze, 'and hidden, as it were, in the face of the Lord,' and yet ever>'onc wants his name written there, even though it never should be known but to God. We con­gratulate those pious friends whose faith alone raises their minds above all human considerations, and shows by deeds that the 'mystery of faith,' so generally denied or so weakly be­lieved by many in our land, has a strong hold even on the hearts of those whose sentiments are revealed in their ready subscriptions; for we cannot view the occasion in any other light than in that of a test of faith. May their names be registered at the same time in the Book of Life; and while 
DR. WnXIAM LEE NEFF, '29, MA. '33, (right) and co^thor Mabel Planer 
the Tabernacle retains their faithful 
present the first copy of their history text, "Freedom Under Law," to North Dakota's 
names, may it retain also their practical 
Governor William L. Grey (center) at his office in the State Capitol, Bismarck, in Febmiiy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 13 
CALENDAR 

Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 



Oubs 
BUFFALO—^First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Lenox, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CEDAR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: 
8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. 

CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy. 
DECATUR — Monthly luncheons, foiu-th Wednesday of every month at Elks Club, Decatur, HI. 
DENVER—^First Wednesday of each month at the Na\'arrc Restaurant. 
DETROIT—^First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon. Ye Oldc Wayne Club, 1033 Wayne St. 
ERIE—^First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., SepL thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 pm.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
KANSAS CITY—Call Plaza 3-2160. 
MIAMI—Call Jim Smith (FR 7-2341) or Bob Probst (FR 4-0507) for time and location of meetings. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 
PITTSBURGH — Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Home Dairy, 111 East Main, second floor. 
ROME—Open House daily, Palazzo Bran­caccio, Largo Brancaccio 82, ph. 730002. Ask for Vince McAloon, secretary. 
ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon, Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Tuesday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON —Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
Akron 
On December 8th, a memorial Mass for the deceased Akron Alumni \\*as held in St. Mary's Church. Follouing the evening Mass wc, with our wives, met for dinner at lacominl's restaurant. On December 30th, the annual Scholarship Ball was held at the Portage Country- Club. DAN MOTZ, '5+, was clialnnan. 
At ihc Board ol" Dircciors* meeting Frf>niar>* 8lh, 
JOE WEIBLE, '56, was selected to head the 
Scliolarship Coniniltlce. Plans arc now under u-ay 
to make this sdiolarslilp a%'ailable for a boy enter­
ing In September, 1963. Plans arc now under ^x'ay 
also for Universal Xotrc Dame Xight — further 
word •vvill be sent out in the mail. 
—yrsU I. LA.MMERS, '53, Sic>-. 


Baltimore 
On FL4jnjary 17 the Baltimore Club sponsored its first Annual Scholarsliip Ball, held at tlie Tow-son National Guard .Amiorv-. opposite the Balti­more County Courthouse, with music furnished by Bill Malsel and his orchestra. .Admission included appetizers and refreshments, and all proceeds went to the Club's Scliolarship Fund. Chairman BILL KEARY was assisted by DON G.WHARDT, GREG HALPIN, BILL HART.M/\N, FRANK MURPHY, JI.M MURRAY, JIM MUTSCHELLER, and BILL RYAN. 
The wives of all members were inntcd to an Alumni Wives' Luncheon on Januarv' 24 at Bernlc Lcc's Pcnn Hotel »i Towsoii. 

Berkshire County 
Coadi JOHN JORD.AN of the Notre Dame basketball team will be a guest of the N.D. Club of the Berkshires on Saturday, April 28, for Universal Notre Dame Night. Members, parents, students and guests arc In\'itcd. 

Boston 
Tlie 23rd annual Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday (Father and Son Day) was obscr\'cd on December 10 wth Mass celebrated at Holy Cross Cathedral by the Club chaplain RT. REV. .MSGR. CORNELIUS DONOVAN, '09, imme­diately followed by breakfast at the Red Coach Grille. Guests Included the Most Rev. Bishop James L. Connolly, D.D., of Fall River, Mass., and Hal Goodnougli, humorist and good will am­bassador for the Milwaukee Braves. Chairman CHARLES COLTON, '29, was assisted b>- the fol­lowing: \\\ E. DACEY, JR., '49; TIM TOOMEY, '30; a J. FOUXER, '47; PHIL PHILBIN, '59; JOHN CONNELL, '51; WILLIAM BUTLER, '50; and J.\MES R. SKAHAN, '31. 
The Victor>' Dance was cancelled last Novem­ber because of difficulty with the Commonwealth's laifs but ivjJI be reselleduled. Notre Dame Night plans have been under way. and details will be an­nounced In a local mailing. 

Buffalo 
.Appreciation from all Club members should be expressed to Joan and BOB WEBER and their Committee for the success of our Notre Dame Christmas Dance. TIic snow stopped just long enough to attract approximately 100 couples to this fine afTair. Highlight of the evening was FATHER BARATTO's presentation of an award to Mrs. Beverly Flanigan as the outstanding Notre Dame Alum-Wife. Betty was duly recognized for her role as tlie original founder of the local AJum-Wives Club, from whicli sprung similar organizations throughout the world. 
Our February meeting ^\-as held at the Parln%-ay Inn in Niagara Falls, Ne%v York. MIKE MALONEY, '55, and FRANK FORGIONE, '49, were responsible for this successful inno\'atIon of having a monthly mcetins outside of Buffalo. About thirty members from the Nl^ara. Falls, Youngstown, Lockport area attended. A film from tlie New York State Power Authority sliowlng the construction of the Niagara Project was shown. 
Our Annual Retreat was sclieduled for April 6th, 7th and 8tli at St. Columban's Retreat House in Deifcy, .New York. ALIURICE QUINN, Chairman, 
has been accepting reservations. 
Election of officers and four new Board of 
Directors members took place at 8:30 P.^f. In the 
Hotel Lenox on Tuesday, March 6tli. Definite plans 
for Universal Notre Dame Night call for FATHER 
CH.\RLES SHEEDY as a guest on April 25. Tlie 
Stag and Golf Outing details Hill be announced g 
shortly. \ 
—JAMES F. aASEY, Sec>. 


Canton 
New officers of the Canton, Ohio club and their addresses arc.- IVcsidcnt — EDWARD A. (NED) MAHONEY, JR., of 3421 Parkridge Circle, N.W.; Vice-President — JOHN KNORR of 2406 — Uth St, N.W.; Sccretan-— ROBERT JOLIET of 4610 Yale Ave., N.W.; Treasurer — CHARLES N. KOEHLER of 2916 — I7th St., N.W. 
Marcli 4 has been set as the date for a family 
Communion breakfast of the Canton Club of Notre 
Dame. Very Rev. ifsgr. Robert C. Fannon, 
administrator of Central Catholic High School, . 
will be celebrant for the Mass in the chapel at \ 
Timkcn Mcrc>- Hospital. 
Prospective students and their families. Including 
several top athletic prospects, will be Invited to 
this new event on the club activities calendar. 
New officers and the members of the board of 
directors met at the home of president EDWARD 
A. (NED) MAHONEY, JR., and discussed the club's coming events. 
Our new chief named his contuiiltccs for tlie 
family Communion breakfast. Universal Night, the 
golf stag (to be held this spring) and established 
sev'eral other standing committees. 
President Malioney was one of three new* officers 
elected at the business meeting w*hich followed tlie 
club's ND Communion Sunday obser\'ancc. JOHN 
KNORR was named vice-president and ROBERT 
JOLIET \^-as elected secretar>-. CHARLES KOEH-­
LER \v7a retained as treasurer. ^ 
Fifty alumni and their sons attended the break­fast which was held at Walsh College. BROTHER ROBERT FRANCOEUR. a member of the ^^'alsll faculty and ND grad, helped -with arrangements lor the very successful and ^vcll-rcccIved affair. 
Discussed were the proposed scliolarship loan fund 
being establlslicd by tht club and the scholarship 
fund set up by tlie late August (Gus) Rocco, a true 
friend of the university. 
Also getting a flashing over at the recent board-officers meeting was the merry lime had by alumni and students at the Holiday Ball Christmas Dance. Pro6ts arc to be used for the loan fund. 

Central Florida 
Our first regular meeting was held Tuesday evening, Jan. 11th at the NCO Club at Orlando Air Force Base, Orlando, Florida. President DON SMYTHE appointed the Committees and Commit­tee Cliairmen for the year. General plans for tlie activities for the coming year ^vcre discussed. Our first regular meeting was well attended. Our new-dub now' boasts 60 members In the central Florida area. The Officers are as follows: President, DON SMYTHE; V. Prcs., ROY LAUGHLIN; Treas.. LARRY DILLON; and Sec'y., BILL RICKE. 
—W^ H. RICKE, Secy. 


Central New Jersey 
To break up the monotony of the cold winter months, the Notre Dame Club of Central New-Jersey held a cocktail party on February 25 at tlic^ Washington House In Watcliung, N.J. A single^ price entitled guests to unlimited refreshments and hors d'oeuvTes. JACK MULLEN was In charge of the festivities. 
Universal Notre Dame Night will be the subject of a local announcement. 

Chicago 
The club's officers and directors look forwaid to the brightest year In history since jt appears that w-e will have the largest dues-paying mcmbcr-fl ship in history. Wc hope tliat the Increasing in­terest means record attendance at every club event. 
^I n any case, committee cliairmcn have been doing a great'Job recently. 
President JOE PAGUARI and Treasurer PAT SHANNON report tliat dncs-paying members total nearly 40 per cent of the alumni registered in the Chicago metropolitan area, a tremendous increase from the 15 per cent figure two years ago. Pag­liari has asked ever>-onc to cooperate until the figure readies 50 per cent, a level at whicli the club can become a financial success and contribute more generously to its Scliolarship Fund. 
Our one big spiritual event — the annual Com­munion Breakfast — was held Feb. 25. Old St. Stary's again ^vss tlic setting. A large turnout ol 
X.D. men and their families filled the middle aisle. .•\fler Mass the group walked over to the Hilton ^ Hotel for breakfast. 
FATHER TO.M BRENN.\N, one of Uie Unixxr­sity's most able speakers, made a big bit with the younger alumni as well as with his many friends in the "over 40" category-. BILL KE^XRNEY was chairman of tlic program, and did an out­standing job. He was assisted by JOHN FOGARTY and JOE ZWERS. 
The Women's Aa\iliar>' of the club, encouraged by the success of their St. Patrick's party a year ago. proved that history can repeat itself. Their St. Pat's part>" at the Congress Ilotel's new Great Hall was a fun night all the way vvith cocktails, dinner, dancing and plenty of Irish songs. 
Everyone hod a ball and the club's Scliolarship Fund really was the winner. All proceeds went into ^th e fund, whicli currently ts helping four boys 
attend tlic University. 
Mrs. Cyrus F. Freidlieim was cliairman of tlie fast-paced party. Her committee included the mcs­dames ARTHUR L. CONRAD, TERREXCE J. DILLON, RAYMOND W. DURST, DAVID A. McELVAIN, JOHN C. FOGARTY, MARTIN J. GLE.\SON, JOHN P. GOR.MAN, CHARLES M. HICKMAN, DONALD HOGAN, NEIL a HUR­LEY, JR., JOSEPH D. .\L\DIGAN, JR., JOHN 
D. MOYNAHAN, JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY, JAMES J. O'SULLIVAN, JOSEPH L. P.AGLIARI, FRANK J. ROTHING, FREDERICK L. SALMON, JR., and ALFRED C. STEPAN, JR. 
Mrs. THOMAS W. SEXTON js president of tlic Women's Auxiliary. Other officers arc Mrs. FREID­HELM, Vice President; Mrs. H. GILBERT SEA­
_M.AN, Treasurer; Mrs. FRANCIS J. MILLIGAN, JjR., Recording Secretary-; and Mrs. PHILIP J. FACCENDA, Corresponding Secretary. 
PRIAL CURRAN is chairman of the Nomin­ating Committee that will slate the ne^v olficers and directors. Also on the Nominating Committee arc JAMES MALOOLY, ED MIESKOWSKI, JERRY FRAZEL, LEE BISHTON, JOE ARCHI­BALD and LEO POWERS. 
President-elect JACK BARRY, who was clioirman of the annual Rockne Dinner, reports that approximately 450 attended the program at the Congress Hotel. This year 52 Catholic and public M:J)OOIS nominated boys for the award. JIM BURDA of Weber and JIM GR.\BOWSKI of Taft won 
K
hc trophies. TIic Rockne Dinner can't be a finan­ial succe&s, since the boys and tlicir cxKichcs arc guests of the club, but it builds much good will for the club and the University In the Chicago area. 
JIM JENNINGS, cliairman of the Prep School Committee, has appeared at numerous College Night programs at Chicagoland schools to present the Notre Dame stor>'. He has received help from BOB CLE.MENCY. 
ED FOX and his Interviewing Committee also have been busy talking to prospective freshmen. Included on this committee are BOB O'KEEFE, PETE JOHNEN, PAUL FULLMER, JERRY BRANSFIELD. GEORGE ROSS, TOM O'DONOG­HUE, BILL DONNELLY, JOHN WEITHERS, FRANK CULLEN, JR., BILL SULLIVAN, BILL REYNOLDS, MARTIN BURNS, JIM SWEENEY, MARK MITCHELL, JOHN K\'XS, BOB BERNER, BILL McMURRAY, JIM GRIFFIN, JOHN BURNS, JIM VANDERBOSCH, CHARLES RUSS, 
MR., BOB MURPHY, JOHN URBAIN, GERRY ^PECHT, BOB BATES, GEORGE DEMETRIO, and JOE MADIGAN. 
—PAUL FULLMER, '55, Seo*. 


Cleveland 
Coy and Marilyn Hammctt with an assist from Mrs. Tcrrence Conway on the table decorations. A cocktail party was held at the Statler before the dance given by Club President ROBERT E. DOWD and Mn. Dowd and Mr. and ^fts. THOMAS F. BRE.MER, a member of the dance committee. Those taking tables were: PHILIP ARCHER, THOMAS BREMER, LEO BURBY. PAT CANNY, JOHN COYNE, ROBERT DOWD, GEORGE DURKIN, DICK GAECKLE, NICK HAHN, GEORGE HA.M.MER, CLAYTON LE­ROUX, RILEY MILLER. ED. MURRxVY, JOE 0»HARA, DENNIS O'NEILL, JR., FRANCIS PAYNE, C H UC K R O H R, JR., CLETE SCHNIEDER, GVS STEFANEK, ROS TOTH. Congratulations arc in order for George and Tom on the successful turnout of o%cr 200 couples. George and Tom also wish to extend their thanks to all committee members for their work on the dance. 

Columbus 
On February* 15 the Columbus Club held a din­ner meeting at the Desert Inn. a local restaurant operated by GUIDO ALEXANDER, '44. Enter­tainment by a local theatrical group was arranged by JOHN FLENTZ, '57. We ^verc fortunate to hear REV. J/\MES E. MOR^VN, C.S.C., mrcctor of Admissions and Scholarships at Notre Dame, speak on tlie criteria used by his office in screen­ing applicants for admission to the University. Fr. Moran was In town to consult with local bank officers regarding the selection procedures for the two complete four year scholarships to Notre Dame to be awarded eacli year to students from Colum­bus. The scholarships were established by the will of 'the late Glcnna R. Joyce, a long time friend of the University. 
On March 19 the Colimibus alumni club held elections for tlie 1962-1963 term. Elected to the office of president %v-as ROBERT J. KOSYDAR, '53. MICHAEL C. SCANLON, '55, was chosen as vice-president and JOHN J. DILENSCHNEIDER, '53, and DON WEIL.-\ND, '52, are now secretarj­elect and trensurer-elccl. respectively. DR. THOMAS HUGHES. '38, who was Chairman of our local Foundation drive, was elected lo tlie board of directors, and the retiring president of the club, RICHARD KASBERG, '48, also became a member of the board. All newly elected officers will be installed at our dinner meeting on Universal Notre Dame -Xight, April 28. 
—JOHN J. DILENSCH.\EIDER, Sec>-.-eIect. 


Dearborn 
The first general mcctms of the year ivas held on January 5 at the home of JERRY SARB. Forthcoming nomination of officers and plans for the annual Dinner Dance were discussed. 
The Dinner Donee was held January 20 at Car­men Tower Club I. A complete baked fiom dinner 
was served buffet style and followed by refresh­
ments and dancing on into the night. GENE WA& 
NER ser\'cd as chairman. 
JERRY KELLY was host to a general meeting 
on February 9, at which nominations lor the 
1962-63 slate of officers were accepted. Plans for 
the St. Patrick's Day Stag were also disctissed. 
The meeting was followed as usual by refreshments 
and cards. 
The St. Patrick's Day St:^ Party was held a 
couple of days early on March 15 at the Warren 
Valley Golf Club. A complete dinner. Including 
the traditional corned beef and cabbage, was >er\-ed 
buffet style. Refreshments were plentiful, and films 
were shown of the I96I NFL and New York Giants 
high lights. JERRY KELLY assisted Chairman 
GEORGE TOBIN with reservations. 

Delaware 
At the last meeting of 1961 the Dela%varc Club elected the following officers for 1962: RICHARD 
P. HAIRSINE, '55, president; WILLIAM D. BAILEY, JR., *56, vlcc-presi'dcnt; and THO.XMS 
J. CAMPBELL, '54, secretary-treasurer. The presi­dent and Wce-presldent are residents of Wilmington, and the secretary-treasurer hails from Avondale, Pa. 
In addition, J.A.MES J. COLE.\fAN, our former president, now replaces CHARLES A. WOLFE, JR., on the Board of Directors. 
—DICK HAIRSINE, Pres. 


Denver 
The Denver Club has been continuing Its rcgtdar round of activities which Includes a monthly noon lunclieon, a Hiscusston Club laceiins everj-six weeks and other main social events. 
The Discussion Club In January considered the Historical Background of Modem Symphony Music so that one could appreciate symphonic music bet­ter. The Archdiocesan Director of Choirs was the lecture moderator. BOB ZEIS, Vice President, is in charge of this group. The meetings in the future wilt consider subjects on Natural Law and Appre­ciation of Modem Poetr>-. 
Big turnouts were had at two of the big social functions recently. The largest turnout in the history of the Notre Dame Club occurred at the Christmas Donee with both Alumni and students participating. The Club also made the most profit on any one function that it has ever made. Our chairman was the President, CARL EIBERGER. 
The Knute Rockne Memorial Trophy b pre­sented annually by the Denver Club to the winners of the State Parochial Toothall and Basketball Championships in Colorado. The presentations were made to the Pueblo Catholic for football and Regis High in basketball. The Club has obtained much good will in this fashion. 
Scholarship applications from extremely able 
The annual Cliristmas Dance of the Cleveland 
Club was held December 29th at the Statler Hilton OKLAHOMA CITY — Msgr. C.E. Finn, rector of St. Francis Seminary, guest ^leaker 
in the Grand Ballroom. Co-chairman of thb year's on "The Role of the Catholic Layman in Society** as outlined in the papal encyclical event wxre GEORGE J. BLATT and THOAMS J. 
"Mater et Magistra** (a theme to be expanded on this springes Univeisal Notie Dame Night), 
McINTYRE. DENNIS F. BUTLER, Student Club l^resident, was In charge of student reservations. 
was introduced by Club President Dr. Albert Dreshcr (right) at OUahoma City's Heading the women's committee were Jean Mc­breakfast observance of Universal Notre Dame Conununiim Sunday last December. 
Notre Dime Alumnus, April-May, 1962 15 
scholars have been pouring in on Uic Commillce. Announcement of the wnncr will be in May. Tlie Club has also been vcrj- active in helping find summer jobs for students and helping other students at School w-ho are hanng difi[icult>- with finances. Also recent graduates and alumni who are new to the Colorado area have been found jobs ibrough the auspices of the Club. 
At the annual election meeting the Club alw enjo\cd the "Football Highlights of I9G1." Plans arc being formulated for Universal Xotre Dame Night under the general direction of the President. 
The Denver Club lost one of its most famous members when JOHX LATTXER returned to Chi­cago, but JIM MARTIN has come out to coach the Broncos and KEN ADAMSON has become a Mutual Fund salesman when he is not playing for them. So Denver still has its share of athletic greats. 
Tlie Club made over §300 from Burlington Rail­road tlirough its co-sponsorship ol a special train for one of the games last fall. Proceeds go to the sciiolarship fund. 
—CARL EIBERGER, President 



Des Moines 
The annual Chrislmas Dance of tlic Xolrc Dame Club of Des Moines was held December 27, 1962, al the Savery Hotd. Alumni altendinv: wiih their «-ivcs were: PAUL EIDE, '32: JOE JOYCE, '54; JOE BISIGNANO, '59: ROBERT KURTZ; JIM DENNEN; CLEM SCHNOEBELEN; JOE a\SEY and TONY CRITELLI, '52. 
Universal Notre Dame Nii;ht will be obser\-cd on April 28 -Kith REV. FRANK NEALY, O.P., as Suest speaker. 
—JOSEPH B. JOYCE, Secy. 

Detroit 
The Annual Notre Dame Retreat at Manrcsa Retreat House was held Marcli 9-10-11. JIM MOTSCHALL and TED E\\TNG were co-chairmen. Tlie annual dinner meeting was held March 20 at the Botsford Inn, Grand River, featuring cock­tails and a roast beef buffet, moderatelv priced. Proprietor JOHN ANHUT, JIM DANAHER. and BILL C\RROLL made the arrangements. 
Universal Notre Dame Night will be held on .April 24. Foundation Director REV, JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., will be among the guests. 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit extends its conin^^tulations to one of its members. PETER KERNAN , for his recent election to the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association Board. "We also wish to thank tlic many alumni who supported Pete in the election. 
—LOUIS BASSO, Sco-. 

Ecuador 
On January* 27 when I returned home my son Phil informed me that *'Zambo" had called me-AVell, ^vlien I heard tliis I thought somebody ivas nuts as 1 could not figure out who "Zambo" could he. Half an hour later the door-bell rings and there was "ZAMBO" ITURR^VLDE with FATHER JOSEPH McGRATH. It seems that Father was not able to send any news about his arrival, as he himself did not know. He arrived on Friday at noon, proceeded to llic Hotel Humboldt and tried to contact me. Being unable to rcacli me, he later, with the assistance of the desk clerk, got in touch \ritli Iturraldc who failed to call me until Saturday. 
Once Father McGrath was in my liome I pro­ceeded to call all the alumni members, but due to its being Saturday only LUIS ARROYO, T. TERAN. the PINTO brothcis and m^-self were free. .-Vfler a few refreshments wc look Father lo sec the new Hotel Quito. We took this opportunity to tell Father McGrath that in llic future anyone coming here from the University should make reser\'ations at the Hotel Quito. The Ambassador and the Colon would be tlie next clioices, but definitely not to stay in any of the other hotels. Not only are they incon­veniently situated, but the service and food leave much to be desired. 
That evening, Rosemanc and I asked Father to join us for dinner in the home of Dr. Ccvallos, Superior Court Judge. Father is a wonderful person, has a terrific sense of humor and is really lots of £un. Everyone liked him vcr>- much. 
Sunday morning, my family, TONY PEREZ and Iturralde attended Mass, sajd by Father McGrath in the Our Lady of Peace church. \Vc had break­fast in the Hotel Colon. Teran joined us later and 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
ERIE — U.N.D. Communion Sunday speakers (top, l.-r.) included M.C-Sccretary WJ. Dwyer, Rev. John T. Carter, Dr. Charles R. Colvin of Gannon ColI^c, and Vice-Pres. Anthony J. Zambroski; football awards were presented (below, l.-r.) to Joseph Bufalino of St. Joseph Grade School and Rick Scheppner of Cathedral Prep by Pres. Ray Legler, '57. 
wc made a dash for the airport without even 
enough time lo treat Father to a cold beer. We 
sure hated to see him go. 
—JOHN MOELLER, Pres. 



Erie 
Among those N.D. Alumni attending the Com­munion Breakfast on Dec. 10, at St. Peters Cathedral and the Eric Council, Knights of Columbus, (Universal Xotre Dame Communion Sundav) were LEO J. BRUGGER, 'Si; LEO J. BRUGGER, JR., ^61; ROBERT A- BARBER, '40; THOMAS BARBER, '24; ANTHONY J. ZAMBRO­SKI, '52; WILLIAM J. OUTER, '53; RICHARD 
T. McCOR.MICK, '55; JOHN J. McCORMICK, '53; LEWIS J. SHIOLENO, '49; EDWARD KERN, '56; and RAYMOND LEGLER, '57. 
Main speaker for tlic affair was DR. CHARLES COLVIN, head of the department of education at Gannon College. FR. JOHN T. CARTER also spoke, and loolball trophies were awarded to ll\c outstanding football players. Rick Scheppner, Cathe­dral Prep, and Joseph Bufalino, St. Joseph's Grade School. 
JOE STADLER, *53. was the recent winner of the Club drawing and took in the N.D.-Syracusc game on campus with the tickets he won. JOSEPH 
B. BLAKE, '61, putting in six months with the Marines. He w-as due out sometime in Marcli, 1962. JOHN LOCHTEFELD, *55, now on ihe faculty of Mercyhurst College. ROBERT WESCHLER, '30, working with his tmcle in the retail shoe business. ROBERT BARBER, '40, recently became a fathci^ number 5. JOSEPH C, BARBER, '36, looking fit as ever after being down ill for a few months. RICHARD G. CONSIDINE, '58, attending graduate scliool at Pcnn State. 
JOHN L. PAL.MISANO, '55, in the tavern business with his father at the comer of 14tli & Peach streets, Eric, Pa. — all alumni take note. JAMES H. SCHAAF, '59, ex-ND guarti, doing a great job with the Kansas City Athletics baseball club. RAV LEGLER, '57, now u-ith tlic Griffin Manufacturing Co. in Erie. DON BUSECK, '50, ^ eiijo\"ing his new home and surroundings on Alan ^ Lane in Walnut Heights. ANTHONY J. ZAM­BROSKI, *52, now hard at another ^vrcstUng season with the Cathedral Prep Grapplers after finishing up another very successful football season. DANIEL 

T. O'BRIEN, '36, now heading up General Welding and Fabricating in Erie. CHARLES L. SEDEL­MYER, '60, has done his stint in the Army and is nmv with tlic Erie Resistor Corporation. 

LEWIS J. SHIOLENO, '49, another Eric Resis­torlte, did his usual bang-up Job with the St. Geoi^c Grade Scliool football team this year, hew took in the N.D.-Southern Cal football game with his wife and family and also managed to make the N.D.-Xorthwestcm game himself. Lew was one of the leaders in Erie on tlie $18,000,000 Challenged program. ^\^LLIAM J. D^\'YER, '53, u-as another^ hard worker on the Drive. MIKE YARBENET, '47. is kept busy with his accounting work and teac^ilng at Gannon College. LEO J. BRUGGER, JR., '61. will finish up his mortuary studies in Pittsburgh next summer. 
JIM MAHONEY, '51, became a father for the third time this fall. Jim is taking it easy now-after another football season with Academy High School. He does plenty of basketball and WTestlIng officiating In the winter montlis to keep in trim. LARRY STADLER, '29, enjoys training his cham­pion boxer dogs when he can find time to get away from his business — Superior Bronze Co. LEO CARNEY, '30, is one of the top duckpin bowlers around town. TOM BURICK, '58, cnjoyingA his work at American Meter and is kept hopping- by ^ his four children. JACK DAUT, '52, recently sustained an ankle injury playing handball. 
RICHARD T. DALEY, '53, became the father of a son In November in Chicago. Tltat makes one son and one daughter for Dick. He is enjoying Ids work with the American Sterilizer Co. and manages to get to Eric three or four times a year to keep in touch. The Eric Club wishes to extend its s>-mpathy to Dick on the death of his father, Richard D. (Class of 1917) whicJi occurred in September. CHUCK DEGER, '55, just purchased a new home for his family of four daughters. Chuck Is with Libbey-Owens in Lake City, Pa. JIM EHRMAN, '61. presently taking graduate work In engineering at Notre Dame. His Notre Dame room­mate, RON SHUBERT, '61, now in Med School at Western Reserve. MARTIN GLOEKLER, JRM '39. cnioying his new home on Homestead Drix'c. PHILLIP HAGGERTY, '53, contemplating a move to California. HERB KERN, '54, In tlic process of building a new home which he, his wife, Sally, and two clilldrcn, a boy and a girl, look forward to monng Into In late spring. 
RICH McCORMICK, '55, just moved Into his new home at 4425 Cherry Street. Rich has the streets of Eric In good shape again as his company. Joseph McCormick Construction, did extensive re­surfacing this summer. JOHN McCORMICK, '53. had another addition to the family this fall — a girl this time — making it three boj-s and two girls. John also mox'ed Into a new home at 529 Kalikwa Blvd. WALTER LUEDTKE, '30, refcrcclng som^l of tile prize fights around town. ROCCO MARTEL­LO, '59, and his family recently settled in Erie at 2150 West 8 St. JOHN F. SITTERLE, '60, and his wife took in the N.D.-Pittsburgh game in Pitts­burgh and were very happy ^vtth the outcome. John's father, John Sitterle, Sr., recently won re­election to the Eric District School Board. He is a very rabid N.D. fan. HOWARD ESSICK, '41, keeping quite busy with his four youngsters. TOM GALLAGHER, '55, his wife, Judy, and daugliter, Mary Karen, recently moved to Erie and live at 4026 Liberty St.. Tom is District representative for tlic Maytag Company in this area. MICHAEL A. McCORXnCK, '61, in tlic beer distributing business with the Erie Beer Co. JOHN S. YOUNG, '51, had his fourth little girl bom this fall. 
REV. RICHARD O. POORNLW, OS.C, assist­ant to FATHER HESBURGH, will be a guest on Universal Notre Dame Night, to be held on April 30— 
—JOHN McCORMICK, '53, andl 
W.M. J. DWYER, '53, Secv-. 


Fort Lauderdale 
At our regular Januar>' business meeting the newly elected officers were installed after a very good steak dinner at the Governor's Club Hotel. Installed were FRANK L. McGINN, '52, president; ROBERT H. GORE, JR,, '31, vice-president; FRANK CAREY, treasurer, and m>-sclf as secretar>|| Elected to the Board of Directors for a two-vea^ term were BILL MAUS, JR., '53, BILL MOTT­

0 SETTS, '34, and TOM MURRAY. A plaque ot appreciation for his services was presented by the Club to TOM WALKER, our outgoing president. Our gala Valentine's Day party was held at the Reef Restaurant, and the wives were presented with a very nice surprise. Wc all eagerly looked forward to our Second Annual St. Patrick's Day Dinner Dance, held at tlic Governor's Club Hotel on the Irish Saint's feast day, and for the second year In a row Charlie Spii'ak and his orclicstra provided the music. Tlic Florida State Alumni Convention Will be held this year in Palm Beach on April 27-28-29, 1952, all alumni from throughout the country arc cordially inWtcd. The Xotrc Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale Is very proud of the fact that the World Champion New York Yankees selected Fort Lauderdale as their spring home and 
9 to show our enthusiasm the Club Is sponsoring a box at Yankee Stadium. The scats arc the clioicest in the park and arc available to club juembcrs, \-isiting alumni, and their friends. We certainly hope all friends of Notre Dame will find time to sec the New York Yankees while in Fort Lauderdale this spring. Contact the club ofHccs or the ^faus & HofTman store for selected seats, 
—DONALD K. DORINI, '53, Secy. 


Grand Rapids 

At a recent meeting of the officers of the Grand Rapids Notre Dame Alumni Club, WILLL\M FARRELL, a newcomer to Grand Rapids, and 
k HAROLD NELSON were appointed chairmen of a Communion and Dinner held on the First Friday in April at 6:00 p.m. at St. Ttiomas Church. 
A Pre-Lenten Smoker was held at the club rooms of the Grand Rapids Athletic Club. JOHN RAS­DALL and ED TWOHEY were cliairmcn of this event, 
FR/VNCIS FALLON, president of the Grand Rapids Notre Dame Club in 1960-1961 is making a vcrv sa^isfactn^^• recover.' from a recent illness. 
—GODFREY V.VNDER WERFF, Scc>-. 


Houston 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Houston held a theater party back in October. About 125 members and guests attended the play and then an open house given by Mar>- Lou and TO.M.MY GREEN, '27. 
kPat O'Brien played the lead role in the play and also in the post theater show at the Green's. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held December 10, 1961, at St. Michael's Churcli with the food being serx'ed at Crow's Restaurant. ^Vround 90 people attended the affair at whicli Father L. J. Lac>-, C.S.B., u-as the principal speaker. 
Tlic Christmas Dance \vas held at the Shamrock Hilton Hotel. GEORGE W. STR.\KE, JR., *57, scr\*ed as chairman of the party. Seen around the dance floor were Mary Lou and PAUL DOYLE, '35; Joan and A t DE CRANE, '53; DON KRISTINIK, 'GO, and date; Inez and GEORGE McHALE, '23; TOMMY GREEN, '27, and daughter; DAVID MILLER, *59, and date; Madel>-n and DONALD 
BRIEN, '39; Julia and GEORGE AD.-VM; 2ND 

0?: 
LT. DAVID ADAM, '60, and date. Also Marge 
and LARRY KELLEY, '42; Connie and LEO 
LINBECK, JR., '57; Patti Ruth and LEO LlN-
BECK, SR.; and Pat and DON AfcCRORY, '57. 
To complete a rather joyous Christmas season, the 

Notre Dame Men of Houston in conjunction with 
the Holy Name Soaety and the Serra Club held 
its annual retreat at the Holy Name Retreat House 
over the week end of January* 12-14. A very good 
crowd was in attendance. 
—RALPH H. SAUER, Sec>'. 


Idaho 
Tlic annual Notre Dame Club of Idaho Picnic was held on Sunday, October 15th, at the Snake River Valley Trout Farm. Buhl, Idaho. Hosting this annual event were ifr. & Mrs. Bob Erkins. A dinner of those wonderful "1000 Springs Brand" of trout was enjoyed by all. 
At this same outing, the annual election of oflicers 

was held. Tliose elected were: J. RICH CORNELL, 
'59, president; R. JOE HAWES, '42, vice-president; 
and P. MIKE KOHOUT, '59, secrclarv-treasurcr. 
Tlic annual dinner for the Notre Dame Club of 

Idaho, Western Chapter, u-as held on February 3, 
1962, at the OfBccrs Club at the Mountain Home 
j\FB, Mountain Home, Idaho. There were ap­
proximately fort>' alumni attending plus their guests. 
High light of this annual meeting was the showing 
of the 1961 football films. Plans were made for 
Universal Notre Dame Night, whidi will include a 
dinner in Boise. Idalio. Plans were also made for 
family picnic in tlie spring, and another picnic 
before the starting of school in the fall. The honored 
guest at this dinner was the Chaplain of the Base, 
and we owe to him the honor of being the only 
person who could keep the projector working. 
—P.AUL M. KOHOUT, Sec>-treas. 


Indianapolis 
A ver>' successful Glee Club Concert was enjoyed by all. DR. PAUL MULLER, '37, was host to this Glee Club and Club Officers after the concert. GEORGE USHER, '45, has been appointed new executive secretar\' for the Club. Tlic Indianapolis Club is to host the second annual reception for graduating students the week after Easter, with RICHARD K. OWENS. '42. cliairman. 
Foundation chairman, BOB AX'ELCH, '50, reports the Indianapolis quota of $253,000 in Special Gifts was way over the top ivilh $260,195 pledged. In general solicitation of a §79,000 quota, $56,837 is pledged as of Fcbruar\-. Tins total of $317,032 means wc are short $16,968 in pledges. Tlicre are a tew who have been waiting to help and be sure wc go over the top. I'm certain the>' will now step for^vard. Gentlemen, step fon^-ard. 
TIic Secretary's car was stolen an hour after the last Board meeting, consequently notes and car were lied up for a short time. Both are now back in proper hands. 
—JA.MES C. WELCH, '50, Sec\-, 


Kansas City 
Mention should be made of tlic effective efforts on the part of the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City in behalf of the "Challenge Program." Under the direction of General Appeal Cbairmen ED AYLWARD and RUSS FARRELL and Spra'al Gifts Chairman HENRY J. MASSMAN, JR., the follotving committeemen helped make the drive a success: TOM McGEE, JOHN MASSMAN, JIM HIGGINS, HAROLD SOLOMON, BUD SHAUGH­NESSY, CARL ERFFMEYER, LARRY LEROY, KEN MELCHIOR, KfIKE HOGAN, TOM O*­.MALLEY. CHUCK FRIZZELL, TOM J. BIG­GINS, JERRY HIGGiNS, JIM DE COURSEY, GENE VANDENBOOM, JACK FRITZLEN, JIM DOLAN. PAT CROWE, GEORGE BROUSSARD, JOHN DAW, and others we may have neglected to mention. 
FRANK GRIMALDI was elected the president for 1962 of the Kansas City chapter of the Amer­ican Institute of Arclutects. He is a partner in the firm of Shaughnessy, Bower & Grimaldi. 
The University's director of athletics, ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE, will be a spcaal guest for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 23. 
—CARL B. ERFFMEYER, '51, Secy. 


Kentucky 
Your secretary is again hustling to meet that x\LUMNUS deadline. After t^vo years as a "foreign correspondent" for this national tabloid, I think I'm' ready to ease out EARL RUBY — but then who would apotheosize the Big Blue. Whatever the outcome — I turn my ALUMNUS correspondent's badge over to the new '62-'63 Club secretary. 
The past several months have been a mixture of joy, sorrow and paper work for the Kentucky Club. Thanks to BUD WILLENBRINK, '47, and JOE DONALDSON, '28, along with a hard work­ing committee, the General Appeal Drive is exceed­ing its Roal. Special thanks also go to JACK .MUELLER, '51, and members of the Student Club for the effort they put out for a successful Christ­mas Dance. Our "Cross of the Month" was the N.D.-U.K. basketball game which dampened the spirits of a normally enthusiastic cheering section. This performance (?) didn't help the attendance at Big Jack's social event whicli followed. Some of the hcartv souls seen trj'ing to forget were: LEE STEIDEN, '51, JIM HENNESSEY, '51, JIM PAD­GETT, '50, BILL STEIDEN, '59, and JACK ADAMS, '58. 
Tlie credit for the paper work during the past several months goes to JOE BO^VLING, RON MAZZOLI and yours truly. Thanks to Joe, the telephone committee is now on p^^Kr and the members all know their assignments. This is certain­ly a start in the right direction. The other verbose contribution was the 1962 Yearbook. This is a Club Who's ^Vho ^vhich has been promised since last May. Thanks to all of you who answered our original questionnaire. 
Finally, welcome to three new Club members — MIKE HAYES, '59, ARTHUR SMUCK, '51, and 
A.C. VAN BESIEN, '59. See you all at UND night, April 24, with JOE 
KUHARICH. —TOM BRAND, '55, Seo". 
LOS ANGELES — Universal N.D. Communion Sunday was observed by the L.A. Club with a Communion Breakfast at the Chapman Park Hotel in December. Seated at the speakers* table in this composite photo arc (l.-r.}: Dr. Leo Turgeon, '42, Foundation govcmor for California; Richard Bowes, '38, assistant director, N.D. Foundation; Thomas Sheridan, assistant U.S. attorney and chief of the Crinunal Division, who spoke on the fight against pornography; Morton Goodman, '30, president of the L.A. Club; Robert Gcrvais, *55> chamnan 
^f the o'ent; Rt. Rev. Msgr. R.J. OTlaherty, Club chaplain and celebrant of the Mass; William Cusack, *14, Los Angeles Spcdal 
^!^ifts chairman; and Eugene Calhoun, '33, Challenge General Appeal chairman. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 17 
Los Angeles 
Tlic Los Angeles Club beld the Universal Notrt-Dame Communion Breakfast at the Chapman Park Hotel on December 10. Assistant U.S. Attorney TOM SHERIDAN gave a great talk on the current Iiroblcms invoUing anti-obsc«nity laws — and tlu­part parents can play in the practical aspect of "prevention" as distinguished from the legal aspect of "cure." 
Tlir Club held its annual Sports Stag Januar>- 9. and it was vcr>- well attended. JIM MARTIN, in town for the Pro Bow) game as well as living In the area, was on hand, and the principal speakers were VIN SCULLY (voice of the L.A. Dodgers) and JLM MURRAY (formerly of Time and Sports Illustrated, now the leading sports columnist on the 
L.A. Times). A drawing was held to raise a con­tribution to the fund for GENE BRITO, a former Rams player who has been seriously 111. 
General elections were held Mardi 21 in the Redwood Room of the Holl>ivood-Roosevelt Hotel. Officers and directors will be announced in next issue's U.N.D. Night report. Universal Notre Danit-Xiglit will be obser\'cd, incidentally, on April 30 in the Hollywood-Roosevelt. Los Angeles will join with the Long Beach and San Fernando Clubs for this occasion. FATHER NED JOYCE, C.S.C., will be a guest from the campus. 
Maine 
Maine folks hibernate during the winter MI 3CtI\-ity will be small except for Foundation solicitations until we can plan our summer outing. Gifts from the alumni in Maine liave been better than ever and we arc hopeful tliat 100% will have given before the campaign is over. 
—RAYMOND A. GEIGER, Sec>-. 
Mansfield 
Tlic annual Holiday Dance of lhc Mansfield Notre Dame Club on December 29, 1961, was termed a huge success by tlie sixty couples attend­ing, i^ecial thanks went to tlie committee: JIM EHALT, '48; DAVE MASSA, *46; iURSHALL PRUNT\', '50; and BOB BURT2LAFF, '59. 
Tlie following dates ivcre listed on the 1962 Spring calendar: (I) February- 17 — attendance of the Club as a group at the pre-Lcntcn Dance at the K of C Home; (2) March 17 — combined business and social meeting with tlie wives Invited (elections scheduled for this meeting); (3) April 30 — Universal Notre Dame Night — with a speak­er from the University* to be secured. JERRY COLEMAN, *44, Is chairman of tlils affair, assisted by JIM JURGENS and HERB FRVE, '39. 
Ke*vs of further activities vriU be announced by the ne^v secretary as the>' arc formulated. 
—DICK ^VALTER, *41. Scc>. 
Miami 
On January 4, 1962, tlie Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami, under the presidcrtc>- of JAMES 

A. SMITH, held a re-election of oflicers and directors for the year 1962. TTic following are continuing directors: CHARLES MAKER, MI­CHAEL ZOROVICH, and JAMES R. \MLSON. Elected for 1962 as directors were: JAMES A. SMITH, ROBERT I. PROBST, EUGENE KU­BICKI, and ROBERT REILLY. 
Ne*v oflicers elected are: President, WILLIAM 
J. .McSHANE, '41; First \^ce-Presidcnt, RAY POPP, '38; Second Vice-President, JOHN J. CANANE, JR.; Secretary, JOHN W. THORNTON, '50: and Tr«isurer, GEORGE F. HERO, '52. 
—JOHN W. THORNTON, Secy, 
Mohawk Valley 
(Ed. note: Following are further quotes from tlie 
U.N.D. Communion Sunday speech of Robert Bris­coe, Jewish mayor of Dublin, Ireland, deleted from last issue's report and presented now for its insights on the Emerald Isle. J.L,) 
"I believe I am liring proof of what Ireland Is today," said Briscoe. "You all know I belong to a different faith — a faith vhidi is a small minority in Ireland. Ne\'ertlicless, there is a freedom of demDcrac>* In our country today whicli allows eacli individual the right of free conscience." 
Briscoe traced the history of Ireland through its centuries of suffering and stated tliat, today, the elected represenlalives of lhc counlfy have joined together and formed a solid fotmdation for a good future for the people of Ireland. 

18 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
'Alsitors who cuiiic now can sec what has been accomplished," stated Brlscf>c, ''in the abolition of workhouses, the building of new roads, the abolition of slums, the construction of new schools, the erection of new industrj- and — most Important — the beginning of the end of emigration of the best young people from our country'." 
Emigration has fallen off In the past vear from 

40,000 to 28,000, he said. 
"We are ver>- proud to face the world as one 

who has repaid our international obligations," 
Briscoe said, "and we arc now able to get almost 

all the capital wc need by issuing government 
bonds to our own people." 
Briscoe stated that the constitution of Ireland is 

based to a great extent on the constitution of tlic 
United States and that Ireland today offers a great 
opportunity* to foreign investors. 
"Tourism is the second most Important item in 

our country today," said Briscoe. ''Tills year alone 
there were 80,000 \-isItors from America, in addition 
to tourists from all over the world." 
New Haven 
Sccrclar\- JOHN CL.ARIv has been "activated" 

and is now serving in Germany. The undersigned 
has been appointed Interim secretary. 
The Notre Dainc Club of New Haven has been 

active during the winter season. 
Tlie drive for llie Ford Foundation matching 

grant was a success with the Club going "over 
the top." 
Members of the group were next treated to movies of the 1961 football season. All agreed thai the team looked better than the won-Ioss tabulation indicated. 
Tlie most recent event was a Communion break­fast u-ith the Rev. Francis Conklln, S.J., as speaker. TIic Club Is preparing for Universal Notre Dame Night, •wlilcli •vvill be co-sponsored, with the other 
N.D. clubs in the area. Tliis event usually attracts 
a crowd of 400. —J. P. FAUST, Sec>'. 
New Mexico 
Current Club activities center around plans (or the annual Notre Dame Night Obscrx-ance to be held Thursday, May 3, in Albuquerque. Club president FRANK HUDSON has arranged for FR. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL of the Foundation to be the featured speaker. And chairman PAUL DELKER is organizing his committee for tlit- event and promises a top-notcli program. Hope to sec vou all then. 
—BILL HARVEY, Sec>-. 

PHILADELPHIA —Quaker City "subway alumni" proved their brotherly love in March w-ith a $500 check for the Foundation: (from left) Alumni Director Charles A. Conley and Club President Barton B. Johnson accept check from Joseph Novetsky, president of the Notre Dame Fans Club, and Charles P. Logan, treasurer of the 2,000-member oi^anization. Mr, Novetsky, sports editor of the archdiocesan paper, was Philly 1961 
N.D. Man of the Year. 


New York ^. 
Tlie Annual Retreat was again diairmaned vcr>' successfully by GEORGE FRAZIER, '49, at Loyola Seminary, Shrub Oak, N. Y., from Thursday evening to Sunday afternoon, Fdjruar>- Ist-4ih. Twent>--seven attended; Father Vincent J. Hart, S.J., conducted the Retreat. 
FATHER HESBURGH will be the guest of honor 

for our UND Night whidi will be held at the 
Park Lane Hotel, April 28th. 
JOHN ROSS, '52, was just recently named 

Secretary- of the N. Y. Stock Exchange. John is 
tlie father of six children and lives in Huntington, 
L. I. . . , ALBERT S. PACETTA \x-as recently appointed Commissioner of Markets by Mayor Wagner. . . . GORDON L. FORESTER, '47, has been named as a member of the Cana Board for A l the Diocese of Rocknile Center. 
The National Alumni Board of Directors will meet in New York this year In May. . . . BILL CUDDY, '52, is making plans to charter a bus to carr>­several of us back to Notre Dame for the June Reunion. . . . GEORGE WINKLER, '57, wiis recently engaged to Miss Maura Meehan, graduate of New Rodiclle College and presently teaching school. 
DON MULVIHILL, '53, married Grace Conroy on November 30th. Two la^o^rs merge. . . . GEORGE FRAZIER, '49, is pleased to announce that llic Placement Bureau of our Ncvv York Club has become more active recently and should not be underestimated. Three of our members have been placed recently. George has four requests presently A ) from companies requesting N.D. candidates for open positions and he can be contacted at liis office; 151 William St., RE 2-7900. 
JIN! MacDEVrrr, '35, Attorney-at-Law, recently announced the remo\*al of his oflice from the Empire State Building to Mineola, Long Island, to continue his practice in Taxation & Estate Planning. . . . GERALD SHEEHAX, '55, a recent New* York arri\'al, is \ritli Encyclopaedia Brittanica. 
TOM WALSH, '35, and JOE CALLAHAN, '38. have been making plans for the Spring Smoker that will be held in May. 
AL PERRINE, '41, and BILL MURPHY, '38, of tlic New York Notre Dame Foundation Office just verified with confidence the JIM SHEILS Challenge to outdo Texas in readiing our lOO'^ goal. Tlie CAS VANCE, '38, Rangers in Brooklyn are leading this area with 65% of their quota. 0 It is rather disappointing to think that the Ford Foundation u'as so generous in basing this challenge on past performance and now to be encountering such difficulty in trying to solidt 100% partidpailon in this Program by our fellow Alumni. 

Oklahoma City 
During the first week In December, 1961 a meeting of the Oklalioma City Notre Dame Alumni Club was hdd at the home of JOHN HOBBS, 2529 
N.W. 5lst, Oklahoma City. Tlic purpose of the meeting was to elect officers and to plan a Christmas Dance. ^ 
Officers elected for a two-year period wcre:^^ President, JOHN A. HOBBS, '55; Vice-President, EUGENE J. SCHMIT, '35; Secretary, JAMES M. DASCHBACH, JR., '54; and Treasurer, RICHARD M. HOFF, '32. 
Several suggestions for extending the actlritics of the Club were discussed but no final decisions were made. 
A Christmas Dance \\*as arranged and Mr. WALTER A. NASHERT, JR., was appointed chair­man of the dance. TIic dance was held on December 27, 1961 at tlie Twin Hills Golf and Counir%- Club in Oklahoma City. Music was by Doc Davis, a local band leader. Tlicre were approximately sixty 
(60) people present including students, parents of students and Club members. 
At the January* meeting of the Oklahoma City Notre Dame Alumni Club, a special feature was the presentation of a mo\ic, ^'Seconds for Survi\"al," a documentary' on Air Defense put out by Western^ Electric Company. W' 
It was noted during the business meeting that the Plaza Tower Hotel here in Oklalioma City will be the local Notre Dame headquarters for the Notre Dame-O.U. game to be held at Norman, Oklalioma, next fall. Reser\'ations will be accepted until the hotel is full. Address of tlie hotel is: Plaza Tower Hotel, 1117 North Shartcl, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. A Smoker ulll be held at the hotel on Friday night before the game. 
Universal Notre Dame Night •will be held Satur­day, April 28, 1962, at the Plaza Tm^cr HotclA. 1117 North Shartel, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 

>/ rwi 
.A--> < 

NEW YORK — Members attending the annual Club Retreat in February at Loyola Seminary Retreat House, Shrub Oak, N.Y^ sit with their retreatmaster. Rev. Vincent J. Hart, SJ., in the seminary chapel (roughly L-r. by rows): N. Cattafcsta, R. Cattafcsta, Fr. Hart, 
T. Bradley, Wm. J. AfacDevitt, W. Talbot; R. Rogers, Jas. Hamilton, Robt. J. Fink, A. Monacclli, E. Jerome, Wm. Cuddy; John Bauer, 
A. Donald Brice, Jos. Lane, Thos. J. Walsh, Terry Crowley, John Lambert; Frank Concannon, Vincent Hartnet^ Andrew C Botti, Chas. Beck, Angelo Mauccri, Geo. J. Frazier, Jr.; Bernard J. Connor, Ray 0*Mara, Thos. Finn, and Rev. Chas. J. McManus, S.J. Absent from the photograph was retrcatant Felix A. Sarubbi. 
A cocktail hour will be held from G:30 p.m. to 
O
7:45 p.m. and dinner will then be scn-cd. FATTIER JOHN WALSH has kindly consented to be here for thc occasion as has MOST REV. VICTOR J. 
REED, Bishop of the Diocese. —J. M. D.VSCHBACH, JR., Secy. 
Oregon 
Universal Notre Dame Xight reached a new high this year under the personal direction oC retirins President CHARLIE SLATT, '33. More than 150 alumni and friends were expected to hear FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, C.S.C., develop the theme of the "Notre Dame Faniil>''* on April 24. Some **sidclinc** talk of interest was anticipated with respect to the famous "after-time'* field goal of the Syracuse game. 
L. B. "BARNEY" MacNAB, BILL MEAGHER, PAUL NEWMAN, PETE S.ANDROCK, and JI.M MALETIS carried \-arious responsibilities for the 
.^program and the Club is grateful to them for their 
9,vork. 
Going back a bit, "HANK" PE.\R did a com­mendable Job on the December Communion break­fast. For the first time, the guest speaker u-as a nun. the principal of one of the lofial girls* high schools, who gave us a vcr>' informative address on the aims of Catholic education for girls, and some of the mutual problems of parents and school. fVmong those working with Hank were BERTRAM 
J. McCL/VRTY, JOHN SACAM.\NNO, ED CASEY, HUGH LACEY, JR., J. ED HUGHES, PHIL .ME.\NEY, PETER MURPHY, JR., ART STEV­ENS, CHAMP VAUGHN, PETE TRILER, and the old faithful PETE SANDROCK. The Club's ^hank s and congratulations to the committee for a 
yL-rtmd event, and to REV. JAMES NORTON, C.S.C., celebrant of the Mass, and the University of Portland for hosting us. 
Newcomers among us are: WILLIAM P. FREER, '53, who is an adjudicator with the Veterans .Administration; and WILLIANf J. LUFF, JR., Law '61, who is with the Regional Counsel of the Internal Revenue Ser\icc. Refer your tax headaches to Bill — they will be in gocxl liands! 
Not at all a newcomer, but "discovered" after several years is WILLL\.M E. LOVE, '46, a Na\y V-12 man who finished in Law and is now in practice in the Equitable Building, Portland, having moved north from Eugene five years ago. 
DORWIN L. PALMER, JR., makes national headlines in the insurance press with an article on pension planning. Congratillations. Donvjn. 
—TOM MAGEE, '32, Seo". 



Calm Beach County 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Palm Bcacli County under the chairmanship of JLM and DAN DOU-NEY will sponsor the annual Florida State Notre Dame Convention the last week end In April here in Palm Beach. ^Vmong those helping with the plans for the convention arc: JIM KING, DICK GORHAM, CHEATAM HODGES, PAUL Mc-DERMOTT, ROME HARTMAN, and ED LEWIS, President of our Club. 
It will be held at the Ambassador Villas In ^al m Beach on April 27-28-29, 1962. Expected are approximately 100 members and their wives from 
\'ariou5 clubs around the state. Guest of honor 
from the Universltv will probably be Freshman 
Dean WILLIA.M BURKE. 
—BERNARD F. 0'HAR.\, M.D., Seo". 


Philadelphia 
It is with great regret that wc announce the passing of our former chaplain, FATHER BERNARD 
A. Mc&\FFREY, CS.C. At least 25 members responded to FATHER JIM DONNELLY'S plea for help to his Texas missions. JIM LEYDON has been conducting an intensive dues drive. JACK DEMPSEY, CLIFF PRODEHL and BART JOHN­SON have been mopping up on the Challenge campaign, with mudi eleventh hour actiWt>- to meet the quota. 
JOHN NEESON was in charge of the 1962 Retreat at Malvern Retreat House, scheduled for March 23. BART JOHNSON has been busy compiling a 1962 Club Director^-, with JOHN MOORHE.AD in charge of advertising. Investment Club and regular monthly meetings have been proceeding apace. 
For Universal Xotrc Dame Night, Chairman TOM McGRATH has lined up a fine program for Friday, May 4, at the Overbrook Golf Club. ViIIano\-a, Pa. Music will be provided by a strolling accordionist and by Charies Grcsh's ordiestra. "RIP" .MILLER of Annapolis will be the featured speaker. 

Rochester 
FATHER CHARLES SHEEDY, CS.C , .Notre Dame's dean ol .Arts & Letters, will be guest speaker for Universal Notre Dame Night on April 26. 
Tlie Christmas dance was well attended by both students and alumni, the last ingredient needed for a huge success after the apt work of RALPH KEPNER, '56, as cliainnan. Close to 100 couples ntlcd the Ridgrniont Country* Club for the gala evening, among them were DR. FR.ANK KELLEY, JOHN GL.AVIN, ED BARRETT, JOHN ROD­GERS and JERRY CURR.VN. 
One of our number, DON CORBETT, SR., has distinguished himself with his appointment as Public Safety Commissioner for the City of Rochester. 
The women's club held a mother-daughter luncheon at the Powers Hotel on February 3rd vvith a circus atmosphere to entertain the youngsters. Maril>-n (Mrs. Ed) Scliickler and Nadinc (Mrs. Bernie) Ilennessy were co-chairwomen of the afTalr with the assistance of Gail (Mrs. Bill) Reeves, program diairman. .A clown from the \Tsiting Shrine Circus added an unexpected thrill. 
That's it for now. —ED SCHICKLER, Sccj*. 


Rome 
Our Chri!.tmas Open-House before Midnight Mass and after Mass added up to a full house with alumni nsltors from near and far sharing Christmas diecr on the dub's common ground. .AH hands pilgrimaged to the major relic of Christ's Crib In St. Mar>- Major Basilica before Mass and after Mass returned to the dub for homemade egg-nog, 
Tlie dub's DR. TOM DOOLEY Memorial Lectures In Medical Ethics in favor of the Amer­ican medical students at the University of Rome sponsored Dr. Frank Ayd, noted Catholic psydii­atrist of Baltimore — and happy dad of twelve kinder — in a film-lecture on mental depression on the campus of the University of Rome. 
Upon learning of the death of PAUL M. BUT­LER, '27, we arranged to have a Afass offered in St. Peter's Basilica, notifying sons KEVIN, '61. and BRIAN, *64, whom we had as guests in Rome during the past siunmer. 
Spotlight members: HUGH MURPHY, '59, half­way round the world on his round-the-world hitch­hike. Is wintering in Rome and is on the faculty of Notre Dame International School as basketball coach (with a first-place team in the league), substitute teacher and all-round tutor. Hugh is abo on the hosting staff of our N.D. Club and will speak on our lecture series to the Holy Name Sodety of NATO South In Naples. His subject: Seeing the World On A Dollar Forty A Day! ORLANDO PROSPER!, Laiv '53, has just given the dub's lecture In S'aplcs on Legal Medicine. LUIS SUM.MERS, '61, in architecture, is also on the faculty of N.D. International teaching art. He is a graduate of both N.D.I. and N.D.U. Alas, his native Peru Is calling him home for a spot of military ser\*ice. 
With thanks: To member-emeritus GORDON Di RENZO, '57, presently of sociology faculty at U, of Portland, for a large "CARE" package from Hammcs N.D. Bookstore (Brother Conan's Super­market). Out of It came for our translator's 5er\*ice a large-size Italian-English dictionary, for our library Prof. Dick Sullivan's up-to-date "Notre Dame," for our refreshment nook twelve blue-and­gold N.D. highball glasses, and for our cars N.D. stickers. And added thanks to the Alumni OfHce and the OfHce of Admissions for stocking the dub with the Dome, University bulletins and student directories. To St. Mar>''s for sending The Blue Mantle and Holy Cross Courier. It has been our privilege within the past six months to inter\-icw three prospective X.D. students from the Rome area. 
The Guest Register: Marie Charlotte De Koninck, SMC '61, daughter of DR. CHARLES, \-isItIng professor at N.D., and sister of THO^IAS, also teadilng at N.D. (Marie is In Rome for the year studying at Regina Mundi Sdiool of TIieolog>'). Hr\RRY J. PORTER, '30, stopping periodically at Rome offices of VInnell Contractors. Mother-in-law of L.\WRENCE J. AUBREY, drca '42. DAVID O'LEARY, '53, and sister Jean, '58 SMC, of Lansing, Midi., in Rome for ordination of brother. Peggy Fisko, '60 SMC, Hammond. Ind. Cousin of ARtUI P. JARRET, '35, and ARAM, JR., '65, friend of RUSSELL HUNT» '35, and RICRARD, ' '65, all of R.I. RAY DURST and BOB DOR.AN, both '26 (classroom mates) here for ordination of TOM DORAN of Rockford, 111. BUCKY, JR., £nd the new Mrs. PAUL A. O'CONNOR, '59, now studying medldnc at the University of Bologna and reported that D.AVE FLANAGAN, '60, of . So. Orange, N.J., Is in medidne with him at Bologna. DENNIS J. O'NEILL, '26, of Cleveland, and wife. LEE KLETZBY, JR., '58, Columbus, O. BROTHER EYMARD SALZ.MAN, CS.C. J.AMES 
B. TREACY, '44, with wife and four sons (one signed up for N.D.I.) employed in Hddelberg, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May^ 1962 19 
Germany. BRUCE BABBITT, '60 (cx-prexy N.D. 
Student Council), in studies at Durham U., ^gland. 
Nancy Uesh, '59 SMC. FATHER CHARLES 
HAMEL, C^.C, of Portland U. LT. RONALD 
SOWERS, '60, USMCR. BOB O'REILLY, '43, of 
Ft. Wayne, father of BOB, JR., '65, brother-in-law 
of N.D.'s Public Relations JIM MURPHY. BERT 
HORNBACK, *57, M.A. '61, in studies in Dublin 
on Rotary Fcllo%%-ship. JAMES CONNAUGHTON, 
member Advisorj- Council College of Liberal and 
Fine Arts, with ivife, dauglitcr Jane, of St. Mar^-'s 
Academy, son Stephen and Sarali Plunkctt, daughter 
of N.D.'s DEX'ERE PLUNKETT. BOB \\'ELCH, 
*50, of Indianapolis, and wife reporting for his 
sizable N.D. family. And finally a former *'cata­
comb" member of the Rome dub has just returned 
for a year's stay in Rome, begging for renewed 
membership; none other than basdiall's famed 
HERALD "MUDDY" RUEL. So witli an early 
spring coming to Eternal Rome, our door will be 
ajar for all X.D. pilgrimaging folk. Tlic address: 
Largo Brancaccio 82, Tel: 730002. Open from early 
until late. P.S.: A new member: RE^^ BERNARD 
SHANLEY, former N.D. staffer has arrived from 
St. Mar>''s to do advanced study in tlieologv* at 
Rome's Angclicum. 



ScKramento 
President AL KAELIN, '55, breathed a sigh of relief as a late gathering crowd rallied to make tlie Christmas Party a success. Cocktails, dinner and dancing rounded out the evening at the £1 Rancho Motel in Sacramento. BILL DALY, '41, JACK MULLEN, '34, and GENE MEUNIER, '53, closed up shop toasting tlic evening's success. 
Plans were formulated for participation in the 
"College Fair Da\-" on Februar>' 24 at Sacramento 

State College. Alumni expounding on the virtues of 
the Univeisity and the film "Notre Dame" were 
featured in the annual exposition to local high 

scliool students. 
A prc-Lenten smoker was held Tuesday evening, 

February- 27, at tlic Sacramento K. of C. Clubhouse. 
Films of the "Notre Darac Football High Lights — 
1961" and "All Americans 1961" were shown. The 

usual boisterous crowd was on Iiand. 
—RICHARD S. SAPP, Secy. 


St. Joseph Valley 
CHET GR.ANT reminisced about his friend 

KNUTE ROCKNE at the annual Rocknc Com­
munion Breakfast at tlie Morris Inn .April 1 
following the traditional Mass at Dillon Hall. 
The last two events of the BOB CAHILL admin­

istration are the Spring Game between N.D. Varsity 
and Old Timers on April 14 and Universal Notre 
Dame Night on May 1 with AVILLIAM BURKE, 
new freshman dean, as principal speaker. 
St. UMJIS 
Since Christmas St. Louis alumni have been bus>* 

placing host to delegations from the campus. It 
started February- 17 when the Notre Dame Glee 
Qub joined with the Marj-ville College Glee Club 
in a concert In the Auditorium of \^ila Duclicsne. 
Club representatives for ticket sales included VINCE 
FEHLIG, DON RATCHFORD, and M.ATT WEIS, 
JR. 
Tlie Notre Dame Rugby Football Club was scheduled for a \-isit .April 7-8 for games with the St. Louis, Washington and Harx-ard Univer^ty Clubs, and members wire called upon to support their expenses while in St. Louis, the trip ha\-ing been made at the players' expense. The visit was expected to be a great public relations boost, following similar successful xisits by Yale and Princeton organizations. Members were also Invited to a joint *'Dutch treat" dinner on .April 7, held by the Missouri Rugby* Football Union, at which the Missouri Challenge Cup would be awarded. 
Universal Notre Dame Night on .April 26 will feature N.D. Athletic Director ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. 


San Diego 
Elected recently as 1962 officers of the San Diego Clt^ were the following: President, JOHN H. CAWLEY, JR., '49; Vice-Pres.. CHRIS COHAN, '54; Treasurer, JOHN MURPHY, '51; Secretary, TOM HUGHES, 'U; Corresponding Secy., LES HEGELE, '28; and Qiaplaln, RT. REV. .MSGR. FRANCIS C. OTF. 
Universal Notre Dame Night \vill feature FR. PHILIP MOORE, CS.C , academic assistant to FATHER HESBURGH, as guest speaker. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 


Spokane 

The annual Holiday Party of the Notre Club of Spokane W3s held on December 28th in the beautiful new home of GARY MYERS, '39. The rec room was attractively arranged and dec­orated in cabaret style, with a log 6re blazing in the fire place to offset tlie prevailing wintry weather. Gar>' and his lovely wife, Jane, were admirable hosts to the following members and their wi\"es: FRANK HAGENBARTH, '27; JIM LYNCH. '40; BOB MERZ, '47; JOHN O'NEILL. '29: DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '49; BERNIE SNfYTH. '55; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; and JOE WALSH, '14. The following students, home for the holidays, and their dates, were special cuests of the Club: DENNIS JOHNSTON, '61; JAMES LYNCH. '65; CHARLES TILFORO, '63; and PETER WANDER­ER, '65. 
—JOE WALSH, Secy-Treas. 


Toledo 
At a recent meeting Treasurer CHUCK COMES 

reviewed the successfid Christmas dance ably chalr­
maned bv MIKE HOEFLINGER. President TERRY 
O'LOUGHLIN announced plans for future c\xnts: 
a Universal Notre Dame Nicht and a summer golf 
outing. DAN SNIEGOWSKI, 1956 graduate and 
one of the five Notre Dame rcdpicnts of the famed 
Rhodes Scholarship, ivas the featured speaker. Dan 
has now returned to Notre Dame's English Depart­
ment and he outlined for us his experience in 
obtaining the highly prized scholarship. 
Co-chairmen TOM QUINN and JIM ROSE 

executed the Marcli 4th Communion Breakfast at 
the Toledo Club. REV. JAMES MORAN, CS.C , 
Director of Admissions, outlined entrance require­
ments for the alumni and friends. 
Notre Dame alumni In the Toledo area are 

noticeably prominent in the Catholic Big Brothers 
program. President BOB O'NEILL follows former 
presidents TOM KING and TERRY O'LOUGHLIN. 
Other graduates in the area who have **little 
brothers" include DICK MERKEL, DAN MC­
CARTHY, TOM QUINN, JIM ROSE, and JOE 
KALBAS. 
—JOE K.\LBAS, Secy. 


Tri-Cities 
Tlic Annual Communion Breakfast was held on 

December 10, 1961 in Rock Island and was 
preceded by ^lass in the St. Mary of tlie Angels 
Convent Chapel. FATHER ART PERRY, Class of 
'52. celebrated the Mass and gave the sermon. 
GEORGE HARBERT was the chairman for this 
very successful event. 
MIKE UNDERWOOD can take a bow for the 

splendid lundieon whlcli he arranged on December 
27, 1961 at whicli the present N.D. students and 
PREP SCHOOL INTERVIEW committee is one important activity of the N.D. Club of Chicago. Here George T. Demetrio, '35, (see 1935 coltmm) discusses application of Robert Schwartz, senior at Niles (lU.) Notre Dame High, one of 300 prospective freshmen processed by the oHnmittcc under Edward A. Fox, '37, '(»(>^ shown). 
their fathers were guests of the Tri-City Club. ^ The luncheon was held at the Blackhawk Hotel ^ in Davenport and those present heard the news frcMn the i:ampus from \'arious students called on to say a few words. 
The festivities for Universal Notre Dame Night are being planned by RALPH CORYN and he informs me that tlie place is the Plantation Club in Moline and that the present plan b for a cock­tail party to be followed by a short program, the high light of which will be the talk by a school representative, FATHER FRANK NEALY, O.P., the mudi-respccted campus theologian, on April 30. 
—JAMES J. CORYN, Scc>--Treas. 


Triple Cities 
On New Year's Eve, Sunday, December 31, 1961, ^ the University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Triple Cities held a Communion Breakfast to honor the Notre Dame students that %vere home for the holiday's. 
Mass was celebrated at 7:15 a.m. by REV. JOHN 

J. TOOMEY, Pastor of Blessed Sacrament Church. Johnson City, Nc^v• York. Thirty-six men, about equally dinded between students and alumni, then attended breakfast at Lou*s Restaurant, Johnson City, New York at 8:30 a.m. 
GEORGE HAINES, '42, outgoing president of the dub, introduced the ne%v officers. Thev arc: President, JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY, '51;' Vice-President, THOMAS BENEDICT, '49; Secretary. JOHN J. O'ROURKE, '49; and Treasurer, J.AMES 
P. CONNERTON. '49. A REV. JEROME DONNELLY, O.F.M., wlio re­cently came home from Japan after sbc years, shmved slides and gave a very interesting talk on his Work in the missions there. Ever>-one in attend­ance seemed to enjoy the program. Plans for our Universal Notre Dame Night 
include esteemed National Secretary JIM ARM­STRONG as a guest on April 26. 

Tulsa 
At our February 27 Annual Stag, the following were elected to a t%vo-year term: MARION J. BLAKE, '33, President; WILLIAM N. SHEEHAN, '49, Vice-President; JOHN \\\ CONDON, '58. Secretary-; and JOHN A. CHARON. '48, Treasurer. 
FATHER JOHN E. WALSH, CS.C, director of the Notre Dame Foundation, will be a guest from ^ the campus on Universal Notre Dame Night W April 26. 
—ROBERT LAWTON JONES. Retiring Sec>-. 


Washington, D.C. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was obscr\-ed with Mass and breakfast at Holy Cross College on December 10, ulth RT. REV. ALBAN BOULTWOOD, O.S.B., abbot of the new St. Anselm's Abbey, as a special guest. Tlic Hon. CHARLES FAHY, chairman of the breakfast, introduced the distinguished speaker. 
The Christmas Cocktail Party was held on Saturday, December 23, at the home of Mr. and ^ Mrs. JOHN GAINE in Chevy Chase. 9 
On Marcli 8 a general meeting at tlic Sheraton-Carlton Hotel featured a talk by JAMES F. KELLEHER. '53, assistant to the Postmaster Gen­eral, on the government's campaign against smut in the mails. Nominees for 1962-63 Club officers and directors were also introduced at the meeting. 
J.AMES A. WELCH was in charge of a gala St. Patrick's Day party in the Sheraton Room of the Slieraton-Carlton on March 17. 
BILL KAVANAUGH announced that the Chal­lenge Campaign mop-up was nearly completed. 
Universal Notre Dame Night plans call for FATHER HESBURGH, CS.C , as campus guest and distinguished guests from the federal govern­ment. 

West Virginia 
New officers for the Noire Dame Club of West Virsinia are: President, LARRY HESS; Viee ^ President, JOE NEENAN; Secrctary-Treas., DICK~ SHAFER; One Year Trustee, DON LEIS; Two Year Trustee, JOHN KAE.MMERER. 
The annual Christmas party was held on Tliurs­day, December 28, 1961 at the Charleston Tennb Club. In addition to a number of members and guests, the following members and their wi\'cs were present: RUDY DiTRAPANO, JOE FALLON, LARRY HESS, TOM KENNELL, EUGENE KOPP, GEORGE MAHAN, BILL MINGES, VINCE REISHMAN, DICK SHAFER, WALT TOUS-^ SAINT, JOE NEENAN, and ROLAND HART. • 
—RICHARD J. SHAFER, Secy-Treas. 
MAX C. FALK, '39, on the death of his father, 
July 4, 1961. PETER E- SAVOUR, '60, on the death of his father, November 17, 1961. WILLLUI E. SCHECKLER, '60, on the death 


Classes 
of his father, August 14, 1958. 
Deaths 
Engagements 
-Miss Catherine Sulliran and CRAIG A. HEWETT, '46. Miss Susan Moran and MICHAEL J. WHELAN, "52. 

Miss Patricia A. Lealiv and FR,\NCIS X. g^ .ME.ANEY, '54. W Miss Marie Lconic .Marzo and DR. RICHARD 
J. LYNCH, '56. Miss Sheila Frances Cronin and WILLIAM M. SULLIVAN, '56. Miss Carol Ann O'Connell and FR.\NCIS J. HEINZE, '58. Miss Judith Anne Drogosch and JOHN H. HOL.MES, '59. .Miss Patricia Burlic and PHILIP R. THO.MP­SON, '59. -Miss Carmelita Hurlcv and EDWARD W. TRE,\Ci-, JR., '59. Miss Carol-Anne Marie Puis and LT. PETER 

B. COSACCHI, 'CO. Miss Kathleen Cratntli and EDGAR JACKSON _ EVANS, III, '60. 9 M'ss Ann Elizabetli Weber and PAUL J. .MUL­CAHY, JR., '60. .Miss Marrj- Glenda Xorris and JA.MES H. TANSEY, '60. .\Uss Patrida A. Hurley and .MICRAEL P. 
WARD, '60. Miss Patricia Jane Cosco and 2/LT. .ARTHUR 
F. BARILLE, JR., '61. -Miss Gail Dunham Carolan and ARTHUR F. 
CONDON, '61. .Miss Elizabeth Klein and CALVI.V F. COOK, "61. 
Marriages 
Miss Susan Rankin and CAPT. RICHARD J. GLENNON, '55, Plattsburgh, New York, Fcbruarj­3. 1962. 

^ -Miss Sharon Birdsall and BERNARD VAN ^ETTEN , '56, Cliicago, III., November 25. 1961. 
-Miss Eleanor Elizabeth Campbell and LT. RICH­.•\RD S. THO.MAS, '58, San -Antonio, Texas, Febru­arv- 14, 1962. 
.Miss Ronda .Nephew and JA.MES CORRIGi«<, '59, .Mincola, N.Y., Februarj-, 1962. -Miss Carolvn Ann Onorato and ENS. ROBERT 
J. SIMPSON, USCGR, '60, Chatham, N.J., Fcbru­
ar>- 3, 1962. Miss Karen Lee Boivlby and CHRISTOPHER 
F. MONAH.AN, JR., '61, Elm Grove, Wisconsin, February 24, 1962. Miss Irene Saricli and EUGENE W. O'NEILL, 

JR., '61, Lconia, N.J., February 10, 1962. ^ Miss Marv Ann Kocsis and PHILIP M. RYAN, Q"61. South Nonvalk, Conn., Januar>- 27, 1962. 
Births 
-Mr. and -Mis. FRANK M. LINEH/VN, '45, a daughter, Margaret Mary, Fcbruarj- 27, 1962. -Mr. and -Mrs. VINCENT A. JACOBS, '46, a son, Thomas Vincent, June 4. 1961. -Mr. and -Mrs. PETER P. RICHISKI, '46, a daughter, Carol-Ann, February* 10, 1962. .Mr. and -Mrs. GERARD J. HEKKER, '48, a daughter, Maria Louisa, Marclt 9, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD D. SIM.MONS, '49, a daughter, Martha Louise, Februarj- 16, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT B. UHL, '49, a daughter. .Anne Elizabeth, February- 4, 1962. -Mr. and .Mrs. HAROLD R. WITTROCK, '51, a son, Gregory*, January 13, 1962. 

Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK M. BR.\NSFIELD, ^'52 . a son, Frederick .Miller, January 11. 1962. O -Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DcGRAFF, '52, a 
daughter, Mar\' Jeanine, December 31, 1961. -Mr. and Mk. THOMAS J. ENGLEHART, '52, a daughter, Barbara Jean, March 2, 1962. -Mr. and -Mrs. BERNARD J. SMYTH, '55, a son. John, December 23, 1961. -Mr. and -Mrs. PHILIP A. KRAMER, '56, a daughter, Katherinc Mary, February 2, 1962. -Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD ST. JOHN, '56, a daughter, Mary Patricia. November 27, 1961. 

Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN E. GORDON, '57, a daughter , Mary Elizabeth, October 9, 1961. W Mr. and Mis. GERALD TRAFFICANOA, '57, a 
son. Christian Anthony, January 10, 1962. 
-Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL E. CATANZARO, JR., *J8. a daughter, Marv- Elizabeth, November 22. 1961. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN P. O'NEILL, JR., '59, a daughter. Julie, Januar>- 25, 1962. Mr. and Mrs. .MICHAEL R. GR:\NEY, '60, a son, Timothy Patrick, November 10, 1961. 
Sympathy 
FRiVNK J. HISS, '16, on the death of his wife, Februarv-, 1962. 
KEVIN E. CURR.W, '23, on the death of his father, March 4, 1962. 
.\UTTHEW ROTHERT, '24, on the death of his father, January 2, 1962. 
THO.MAS J., '29, JOHN A., '32, and FR.ANCIS 
E. KIENER, '42, on the death of their mother, .November 23, 1961. 
LEO.VARD W. CONDON, '32, on the death of his father, January, 1962. 
H. P. GIORGIO, '32, on the death of his wife, December 1, 1961. 
FR,\NKLYN HOCHREITER, '35, on the death of his wife. Januars- 10. 1962. 
E. SPENCER WALTON, '35, on the death of his mother, March 9, 1962. PHILIP R. -NORTH, '39, on the death of his mother. Februarv 7. 1962. BERNARD F. HISS, '40, on the death of his mother, Februarv, 1962. 
JOHN C , '40, W1LLI,V.M A., JR., '41, and ROBERT C. KELLEHER, '49, on the death of their father, November 27, 1961. 
REV. JOHN REEDY, C.S.C., '48, on the death of his mother, January- 16, 1962. STANLEY E. BAILEY, '49, on tlic death of hb father. 1958. WILLIAM T. CULLE-V, '49, on the death of his father. DONALD A. DOOLEY, '49, on the death of his father. JOHN W. FrrZPATRICK, '49, on the death of his father. THOMAS J. KELLY, '49, on the death of his father. 1960. DONALD J. MURPHY, '49, on the death of his father. JOHN R. O'CONNOR, '49, on the death of his mother. JOSEPH G. OR.AVEC, '49, on the death of hU father. ROBERT F. SKEEH.AN, '49, on the death of his father. FRANCIS G. CONSLER, '50. on the death of 
hb father. June 13. 1960. JOHN J. REEDY, '50, on the death of his father. WILLIAM J. CO-\ROY, '51, on the death of his 
father. 1957. RAYMOND C. JONARDI, '51, on the death of his father. May, 1951. EiVRL E. FOSSELM.A-N, '53. on the death of his father. WALTER R. HELMIG, '54, on the death of his father. JOSEPH H. HUEBNER, '54. on the death of his father. JOSEPH H. MEAD, '54. on the death of his father. March 12, 1961. THOMAS M. CONLON, '55. on the death of his father. JA.MES A. -McKILLOP, '53. on the death of his father. March 24. 1959. DONALD A. SHONTS, '35, on the death of his 
father. PAUL F. COASH, '56. on the death of his father. LAWRENCE G. DALY, '36. on the death of his 
father. October 7, 1961. GEORGE T., '57, and THO^LAS O'DONNELL, ^53, on the death of their father. JOHN M. THO.MAS, '57, on the death of his father. REV. JOSEPH A. BROWNE, "58. on the death of his father, July 5. 1958. THOMAS F. MOONEY, '38. on the death of his father. 1956. JOHN L. PESCH, '38, on the death of his father. WILLL«I J. BOHNSACK, '39, on the death of his father, January, 1962. 
HUGH C. ROTHERT, '87, died January 2. 1962, In Camden, Arkansas. Mr. Rothert was chairman of the board of Camden Furniture Com­pany and a former banker. Survt\*or5 include a son, two daughters and five sf^^f^t^btldrcn. 
AOOLPH MAYER, '90, died in Denver. Colorado, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
^VILLIAM J. RICE, '96, of Akron, Ohio, died January 7, 1962. Mr. Rice was a retired buyer for O'Xeil's department store and a \*eteran of the Spanish-.Amcrican ^Va^. He is survived by his widow. 
^V1LLIAM J. DESMOND, JR., '98, died in Aberdeen, Washington, according to mall returned to the Alumni OfHce. No details. 
JOHN M. QUINLAN, 'M, died in Chicago, Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
CHARLES T. McDER*!OTT, '05, died in Santa Barbara, California, November 17, 1961, ac­cording to word received from his wife. 
COL. EARLE P. DOYLE, *06, of Washington, D.C., died January 4, 1962. Col. Doyle served in the Army during World War II, and held the office of director of frompensation and pension scr\-ice in the Veterans Administration. He is sur­vived by his wife and a daughter. 
JOSEPH .\f. GAFFNEY, '06, died in Kenosha. Wisconsin, according to mail returned to the .Alumni Office. No details. 
JOHN A. .McCAFFEREY, '06, died in Kttsburgh, Pennsylvania, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
CHARLES B. O'CONNOR, '06, died in 1959 in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Survivors include his widow and four sons. 
CHARLES E. ROESCH, JR., '06, died in August, 1959, in Lakewood, Ohio. He is sur\ivcd by his widow. 
EDWIN A. MCDONALD, '07, of LOS Angeles, California, died in 1935, according to mall re­turned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
ARTHUR J. SHAFER, '07, of Brentwood, Cali­fornia, died January 10, 1962. "Tilly" Shafer formerly played professional baseball with the Ne%v York Giants from 1909-13 and was one of Cali­fornia's t(^ amateur golfers. He is survi\'ed by his widow, a son, two daughters, and thirteen grand­children. 
PAUL K. BARSALOUX, '11, died in Chicago, Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
FRED G. WIRTHlifAN, 'II, died in Kansas City, Missouri, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
JOSEPH J. WUERTH, 'U, of Decorah, Iowa, died February 26, 1962. His wife »ur\-ives. 
EDWARD J. WEEKS, '12, of Grosse Pointe AVoods, Michigan, died November 27, 1958, accord­ing to word received from his wife. 
ALBERT H. KEYS, '12, of Quanan. Texas, died in March, 1954, according to word received from his brother. No details. 

JOSE F. BRACHO, '15, of Torreon, Coah, Mexi­co, died September 29, 1961, according to word received from his son. Mr. Bracho was founder, president and general manager of the Constructors Lagunera, S. A. 
DR. FRANK R. FINNEGAN, '15, died in Um'­versit>- City, Missouri, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
WILLIAM A. KELLEHER, *I5, died November 27, 1961, in Lorain, Ohio, according to infonna­tion received in the .Alumni Office. He is survived by three sons. 
- JOHN S. AfALCOLM, '13, of Boynton Beach, Florida, died in December, 1961, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
RAYMOND J. SULLIVAN, '15, of New Hamp. ton, Iowa, died November 29, 1961, according to information received in the Alumni Office. 
HUGH E. CARROLL, '16. of Hammond, In­diana, died December 11, 1961. Mr. Carroll de­voted most of his life to the practice of law and in recent years was connected vi-ith Redi-B(dt, Inc., a manufacturing enterprise in Hammond. 
EDWARD F. BARRETT, '17, of Minne^wlis, Minnesota, died in March, 1937, according to nail returned to the Alumni OfBce. No details. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, I9G2 21 
GEORGE D. DONAHUE, '17. died Fcbruar>- 17, 1962, in the Veteran's Hospital, Los Angeirs, Cali­fornia, after an illness of twenty years. He A^-a-; an attorney and served as deputy prosecutor of St. Joseph County, Indiana In the I920's. Sur\'i\x>rs include tu"o daughters and two grandcliildrcn. 
FRANK L. HAYES, SR., '20, died In Waukcgan, Illinois, according to information received from his wife. 
^MLLIAM E. DONOV.^N, '21. of Sarasota. Florida, died July 1, 1961, according to mail re­turned to the Alumni Oflice. No details. 
REV. ROBERT J. SHEEHAN, C.S.C., '21, former head of the University's department of biology, died Fcbruar>- 28, 1962. Father Shechan headed the biology- department from 1945 to 1955 and had devoted his full time to teaching since then. 
DR. JOHN H. MOHARDT, '22. died November 24, 1951. in La Jolla, Calif. He Is sur\ived by his wife, a son and daughter. 
FRANCIS OORRIG.AN, '23, of San .Vntonio. Texas, died in I960, according to information re­ceived in the .'\lumnl Office. He is sunived by his wife. 
JOHN D. KEVILL, '24, died In Des Plaincs, Illinois, according to mall returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
CHARLES O. MOLZ, '24. died May 28, 1961 in Pana, Illinois, according to word received In the Alumni Office. He is survived bv his dauchtcr. 
WILLIAM J. CERNEY, '25, knoxvTi as the "Fifth Horseman" died Fcbruarj* 17, 1962, In South Bend, Ind. ^^r. Cemcy was an assistant football coach at Notre Dame under Elmer Layden, bead football coadi at Loyola of Chicago, backficid coach at the University of North Carolina and returned to Notre Dame in 1934 until 1941. He is sur\ivcd by his wife, t^vo sons, four daughters and t%velvc grand­children. 
DANIEL A. McN.-VMARA, '25, of Detroit, .Miclil­gan, died Januar\" 26, 1962, according to informa­tion received in the .-Mumni Office. He is sur­\ived by his widow and a son. 
DR. JOHN H. WHFTMAN, '25, '27, '30, director of the Evening College Session of King's College, Wilkcs-Barre, PennsyK-ania, died Fc4>ruar\- 20, 1962. Dr. Whitman bad served 28 years on the faculty at Notre Dame In the Law School. He is sur­vived by a sister. 
REV. ISIDORE FUSSNECKER, O.S.B., '26, died December 27, 1961. at St. Bernard Abbey. St. Bernard, Alabama. Father Fussnecker served as pastor and assistant pastor of diurclics through­out the South. 
PAUL J. FRY, '27. died January- 30, 1962, in Dixon, Illinois, according to word received in tlic Alunmi Office. Sur\i\.X)rs Include his widow and a son. 
ANDREW C. K.\NE, '28, of Charlestown, Massachusetts, died April 30, 1958, according to information received in the Alumni Office. He is sur\'ived by his widow. 
DR. RICHARD WXHS, '28, died on Februarj­19, 1962, at the Veterans' Hospital in Birmingham, Alabama, where he was a member of the medical staff. Until I960 he u-as on the medical staff of DuPont Company, Aiken, S.C. He Is survived by his mother. 
GEORGE J. AFFKEN, *29, died in Silver Spring. Marv*land, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. His wife survives. 
RAYMOND F. RYAN, '31, mayor of MassIUon, Ohio, died January 19, 1962, of a heart attack. Before his election, he u'as the operator of Ryan's Emergency Store and had been general foreman of maintenance for Republic Steel Corp. He is survived by his widow, t^^'Y> sons and two daughters. 
HAROLD F. BOHNSACK, '32, of Perth Amboy, New Jcrsc>', died in January, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office. Sur\*iWng are his widou-, a son and a daughter. 
SISHTER M. LAURA FOX, O.S.F., '32, died February 25, 1956 while sending as superior and superintendent at the Guardian Angel Home, Joliet, Illinois. 
SISTER M. BENEDICFA BOYLE, S.S.J., '32, died November 28, 1961, in Erie, Pa., according to m ^ returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
THOMAS P. GALBRE.\TH, '32, died November 14, I960, in Alexandria, Virginia, according to word received from his wife. 
SISTER MARY MAURICE, '32, died in Man­chester, New Hampshire, according to mall returned to the Alumni Office No detalb. 
FRANCIS J. O'CONNOR, '32, died in Uttle FaUs, New Yoric, according to mall returned to the Alumni Office. His wife survives. 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
JAMES M. LARKIN, '33, died in Chicago, 
Illinois, according to mail returned to the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
EDWARD G. MASON, '33, \-ice-president of 

Mason Shoe Manufacturing Co., died November 24, 
1961, in Chippewa Falls. Wisconsin. He is surxived 

by his wife. 
DR. MAURICE H. GOLDBLATT, LLD '34, former curator of the Notre Dame art galleries and an internationally recognized art authority, died Mardi 2, 1962, in Chicago, Illinois. Dr. Gold­blatt \\'as known as an Identifier and authcnticator of famous paintings, among which are the "Mona Lba" and "Madonna and the Child" by Da Vinci. A prominent musician and composer, he was a violin soloist with the Chicago Sv'mphoiiy Ordicstra and at one time conducted the Italian Grand Opera Company. His most famous musical composition was the "Dance of the Sylphs." Dr. Goldblatt is sur­vived bv a brotlier and two sisters. 
JOHN M. McGRATH, '35, died July 19, 1955, in New York, New York, according to mail re­turned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
HAROLD J. DRUECKER, '37, of Soutli Bend, Indiana, died December 12, 1961. His wife sun'Ives. 
JOSEPH A. BATT.AGLIA, '38, died in Orchard Park. New York, according to mall retunted to the /Uumni Office. No details. 
REV, ELWOOD E. CASSEDY, '38, founder of "Father Cassedy's Home on the Range for Boys," Sentinel Butte, North Dakota, died in October 1959, according to word received in the .Alumni Office. 
JAMES P. GIBBONS, '44, died in November, 1961, in Corona, Long Island, New York. He is survived by his mother and a sister. 
PAUL L. L.ALLY, '44, an official of the Green Shoe Manufacturing Co., in Boston. Mass., died Fcbruarv* 3, 1962. Survivors include his wife, four daughters, two brothers, and two sisters. 
RUDOLPH J. CSESZKO. '50, of Terre Haute, Indiana, died February 4, 1962. At the time of his death, Mr. Cseszko was production control super­visor for the P. R. Mallor^' Company, Indianapolis. Survivors indude his parents, a brother and a grandmother. 
WILLLAM L. SCHULTZ. *50, died January- 17, 1960, in Los .Angeles, California, acconling to mail returned to the Alumni Office. His wife survives. 
ROBERT J. BURNETT, '55, a commercial photographer in Newark, New Jerse>', died as the result of injuries from an automobile crasli October 11, 1961. He is sur\ived by his mother, a brother and two sisters. 
IVAN MESTROVIC, DFA '55, a resident sculptor at Notre Dame, died January 16, 1962. Mestro\-ic long had been rated at or near tlie top among sculptors during his career. He was the first living artist to have a one-man show at the Metropolitan Museum of .Art, New York, since it opened in 1880. He is survived by his wife, a son, a daughter, and eight grandchildren. 
DR. JOHN H.A. WHITMAN, '25, who died Feb. 20 wlulc director of King's College (Pa.) evening session, posed shortly before with FBI counterspy Herbert Philbrick (right), who spoke at the Holy Cross Fathers' school. Former NJ). law librarian for many years. Dr. Whitman visited the Campus last Christmas and was amazed at changes over his 13 years' absence. 
THOMAS P. ROME, '33, died Novcmbtr 19, _ 1961, in Lo!> Altos, Califoniia, acconling In mail 9 returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
THOMAS B. a\RTER, '36, of Helena, Arkansas, was killed in an Army Air Force plane in Greens­boro, Xortli Carolina, Fcbruar>' 3, 1962. He is 5ur\-ivcd by bis mother. 
VINCENT P. aARROLL, '58, of El Monte. California, died January 17, 1962. He is sui^nvrd by his uife, two children and parents. 
SISTER M. EDITH MANCHON, R.S.M., '39, of Marshall, Missouri, died in August, 1961, accord­ing to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
50-YEAR CLUB • 

Just as in the last issue, the increased mail actirity of the Challenge Appeal has made tlic already sobering roll of dcccrased Scmiccntenarians unusually long and not fully reliable, since the only notice of some deaths is a fetv years late and solely through returned malt. As you remember the following In your prayers, you can retain the hope that a few reports arc erroneous: HUGO CHARLES ROTHERT, '87. who had carried his 92 years lightly as board dialrman of Camden Furniture Co. until his death in Little Rock, .\rk., was a former president of the Indiana Bankers Assn. (deepest sympathy to son MATT ROTHERT, '24, and his two sisters); ADOLPH MAYER, '90, ^ is reported deceased in Denver, Colo, (he was enrolled In 1886); WILLIAM J. RICE, '96, natix-c of Philadelphia, Akron businessman and Spanish War veteran, died in .•\kron, O., with funeral scrxiccs In Boston (condolences to his widow); WILLIAM J. DES.MOND, JR., '98, is reported deceased in .Aberdeen, Washington, where his mail was sent; JOHN .M. QUINLAN, 'W, Chicago attorney', former assistant Cook County attorney and H.O.L.C. counsel, was also reported deceased (s^'mpathy, if reports are true, to his family, which Induded son JOHN A. QUINL.AN, '44); CHARLES THRUSTON McDERMOTT, '05. of Santa Barbara, Calif., Is departed according to a letter from his wife (to whom s>Tnpathy Is e.x­tcnded). 
Tlie passing of F.ATHER THO.MAS STEINER,^ C.S.C., '99, was told in the last issue, but onlyW after the forms were locked on this column. Father *'Pop" Steiner, as later generations knew him, successively comet player, engineer, teacher, priest-confessor, dean of engineering, provindal superior, and University consultant on ironstruction, had a beautiful death on New Year's Day, according to testimony quoted by FATHER ARTHUR HOPE, CS.C , '20, in the Province Review. Father Hope's memorial recounts Father Stclner's kindliness and humor, his distrust of "intellectuals" and some­times *'extraordinar>-" spiritual direction, and his early friendship with a younger teacher. JOHN O'lLARA, whom he followed to the priesthood. He and FATHER CH.\RLES DORE.MUS, CS.C., ^ •*06, remained Cardinal O'Hara's dosest confidants" until the Cardinal's death two years ago. 
Speaking of Father Doremus, his dassmales of 1906 were hardest hit among the dcatlis reported in the last couple of months: Col. EARLE PETER DOYLE, USA (Ret.), died In January In Wash­ington, where he had served on tlic staff of the Adjutant General's office during World War II and had served in the adjudication office of the Veterans Administration, a member of the Knights of Columbus and several military and fraternal organizations and one of the stars of the Golden Jubilee reunion (s\'mp3thy to his widow and daughter); JOSEPH M. GAFFNEY, who attended the Universltv in 1902. was reported deceased In Kenosha, Wis.; JOHN A. Mca\FFEREY, who u ^ with the Class in 1902-05, is reported dead in Pittsburgh, Pa.; CHARLES B. O'CONNOR, here about 1902-04, went on to Georgetown U., where he sent four sons, and died more than three yearsA. ago, according to word just received from his widow (who has our belated s>'mpathy}; finally, CHARLES A. ROESCH, JR., '06, of Lakeuood, O., died in August. 1959, according to notice just received (s\-mpathv ako to his widow and family). 
In Brentvvwd, Calif., ARTHUR J. (TILLY) SHAFER passed away recently and sent sports writers through their files. Here about 1907, Tilly also attended Stanford and became one of many Notre Damers but one of the first Los Angelcnos to star in major league baseball. He played regula^ center field for John NfcGraw's New York Glant ^ fn>m 1909 to 1913, taking part in 1912-13 Worid 
( 
^ Series contests against Cleveland and Philadelphia. 
^ He was a member of the first team to tour Japan (I9I0) and establish the sport there. Tilly went on to befx>mc a real estate operator in Los Angeles but continued as an athlete, becoming a West Coast amateur golf champion in the twenties. Deepest' s>Tnpathy to his wife, son and daughters. Also from Los Angeles comes word that EDWIN 
A. MCDONALD, with the Class of '07 from 190:i lo 1905, has been gone since 1955. 
Unsubstantiated return mail reports were received on the deaths of two members of the Class of '11: PAUL KEELEY BARSALOUX, EE, Chicago, last heard of %vorking in real estate and insurance; and FRED GEORGE WIRTHMAN, PhC, Kansas City. Afo. Sincere s>-mpathy to their families, and to all 
the aforementioned goes a pledge of continued 

• Masses and prayers on the campus. 
Of last issue's coverage of the life and times of the late jin-at ED REULBACH, '05. correspondent HARRY W. ZOLPER, '04, of Rapid Cit>% S.D.. wToIe: ". . . it is perfectly complete together with the remtniscence of editor PAUL MARTIN-DIL­LON, -'09, of the Even'ng Times. Cumberland, Md. The BILL HIGGINS, '03, of Boston, he mentioned, had fine control and was a fine base runner in soite of a cnooled left leir and foot below the knee. Our L/\WRENCE M. (TEX) ANTOINE, '01. caught speedy pitcher Rculbach. 
"The nc»v Chicago White Sox. under Charlc>' Comiskey. trained at Notre Dame durin<» their first year of onranization. We had great universiry 

0
baseball teams from 189(1 to 1904." To this Coacli CL^VRENCE {.lAKE) KLEIN, '21. often an N.C.A.A. bridesmaid, might reply that today's teams are frequently I'rrat and would he greater if It weren't for l'*i* short season and the mator leagues* S:(*)0/0! "bonus babies." 
Nfartin-Dillon returned with im acknowledgment of the Rculbach memoirs, thr* Rnnic renort on his portrait of ancestor FR. PATRICK DILLON, and the mention of his cousins, the Hartford Curr\\s. and adds: "But oli. those oliits! Too many of them, and thc>* increase by leaps and bounds! However, when one Is 78. as I \vas on Januar>- 23. it is to be expected. I'll welcome the day when vou publish mine. I'm getting tired. (A belated 'happy blrthda\'' and a protest that these last remarks, for our sake, be stricken from the record. 
Ed.) 
"FR. TOM STEINER'S death, also those of 

• FRANK LONERGAN and ROY KE.\CH, were real blows. Tliere were others too. You will know it when T die. ^fy executors have several notices, all in addressed envelopes, which will be sent out when God calls me. 
"Publication of my name and address brought me tlic surprise of my life—a letter from my old college roommate from whom I had not heard for 27 years. It was grand to have word from him. 
**Sonie months ago various members of our fam­ily went lo Aurora, III., to attend the festive dedl­cation of the new sclioo] of my cousin's parish (Msgr. Connor). The>' came back singing the 

^ ^ praises of Father Joe Lonergan, who had been toastmastcr at the banquet. This is Frank's broth' er, although the obit said Frank u-as succeeded only by . nieces and nephcu's. (A newspaper obituar>'*5 error; the Elks magazine, in a glowing eulogy of the former Grand Exalted Ruler, listed two sur\'iving brothers, Fr. Joseph and Patrick, neither of them alumni. Ed.) Elsewhere—in the 50 Year Club notes — Father Joe was mentioned as having ofTered Frank's Requiem Mass. 
"During World War I, I w:as stationed for a time at Camp Grant, Rockford, where Father Joe Lonergan was a cliaplain. On a Sunday afternoon wc were visiting, and Father Joe ^vas summoned to the hospital. When he came back he said: 'It was one of your Notre Dame boys. He will not live until night.* He mentioned his name. It was a lad just graduated who during his college course had showed such promise as a stor>* writer that FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, the elder, 

^kpredicted that he would become one of the great American novelists. As Father Joe said, he died before night. Sorry I can't recall his name. (Can any alumni area '17 help? Ed.) 
"One time FATHER MATT WALSH ^v•as wait­ing, in the sacristy of old St. Mar>*'s church In Chlcu^o, to go out to an altar where another priest was just finishing his Mass. When tliat priest came to the sacristy Father Matt took a look at him and exclaimed, 'Fatlier, if you didn't have tliose vestments on I would swear that you jwcrc Happy Lonergan of Notre Dame.' 'I am 
^vterc 
ap's brother Joe,' the priest said. . . . 

wHap '*! have long wanted to take a couple or three 
weeks off to visit Notre Dame, settle dowa in the Morris Inn and do some research work in the archives. Likewise to sit for a portrait STANLEY SESSLER wants to paint for me. But due to arthritis and circulatory trouble, travel has become a terrific chore and I am afraid I can't make it. But thank God, I do get to my office (by taxi) every day and do my share of the work. . . ." Our thanks to PAUL .MARTIN-DILLON, who js perhaps the senior statesman of the nation's ^^-ork­ing press, and prayers that Ins condition will clear enough to permit tliat trip bv his 55th In 
B. J. "Ben" Kmscr 604 East Tenth St. Berwick, Pa. 

The belated word on the death of ALBERT HEUSER KEYS last i»sue finds its sad sequel in a delayed announcement of EDWx\RD J. WEEKS' passing away on November 27, 1958. Ed's \ridow in Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich., unaware that the Alumni Office had not been informed, finally replied to a reunion Invitation. The death came only a year after Ed attended the 45tli /Vnnlversary Re­union, along with DONNELLY McDONALD and 
F. L. MENDEZ (both gone now), PHIL PHILLIP, your secretary, etc. An intensely Io>'al reunionist, Ed had suffered a stroke in Florida in the spring of '32; not only did he send his regrets at missing tlie 40th back to campus ria JOE DONAHUE and ERNIE LAJOIE, but he sent a long \rirc to jn f ARMSTRONG asking him to "say hello to STONEY McGLYNN, BEN K.\ISER, .MUGGSY .McGRATH and J. P. MURPHY. Wishing you all a successful meeting. Sorry I can't be with j-ou to see all the old faces and be a part again of that great scliool that did so much for all of us." ED WEEKS is certainly voicing those wishes again from beyond, and it should be a lesson to all. Deepest sympathy to his family. 
Besides increasing our appreciation for the last full-fledged meeting of the Class, these delayed announcements of death should be an object lesson for all alumni and their families. Keeping the University informed of illness ur death is not only a guarantee of regular prayers and Masses on the campus, but the prayers and Masses of far-flung classmates. 
REMEMBER JU-VE 8, 9, ID marfc your GOLDEN JUBILEE REUNION —your L.\ST one 
— so BE SURE VOU ARE THERE. 
1914 
Walter Clements 623 Park Avenue South Bend, Indiana 

In a 60th anniversary number of the Houston Chronicle, which tells of its first edition "60 years and 6 editors ago," the name of EMMY WALTER, '14, looms large in a leading article by him and another about him. He is known as one of the she most influential men in Texas. 
Tlie Chronicle's vice-president and advisor-editor retired in 1961. 
We intend to do a thumbnail anniversary sketcli if we can get a cut, more notes on his colorful career and space enough. 
KNUTE KENNETH ROCKNE, '14 

Indiana sculptor Warner Williams, artist-in-resl­dence at Culver ^Illltary Academy, has completed work for two new bronze plaques honoring the incmor>- of the late KNUTE K. ROCKNE. Tlie plaque was commissioned last summer and is to be erected in Rock's home town of Voss, Norway. The Idea originated with a group of Noi^'egian patriots in Chicago. Tlie American Embassy in Non\-ay Is In cliargc of special commemorative ceremonies for the plaque's erection In Voss. 
.A 24 by 32-IncIi tablet, the Rockne plaque carries a double inscription, Nonvegian and English. It had to be recast when it was dlscoveretl that the Norwegian inscription was in a different dialect from the one spoken in Voss. It reads: 
''Giant of American Football, Knute Rockne was bom here Marcli 4, 1888. He left Norway as a Mnall boy and became a pioneer and all-time great in American football as a player and coach at the University of Notre Dame. Died March 31, 1931. Dedicated 1962." 
Rock left Voss, Norway, in 1893, when he was five years old, and came to America. He entered Notre Dame four years out of high school, at the urging of friends JOHN PL.ANT and JOHN DEVINE, and realized the athletic promise of his youth in Chicago. With roommate CHARLES E. (GUS) DORAIS, he made national football head-tines as N.D. captain in 1913 by whipping Army with for\*-ard passes at West Pmnt. Immediately after graduation he married Boimie Skiles, who gave him four children, Knute, BUI, Jack, and Jeanne. Abandoning leacliing and chemistry to succeed JESSE HARPER as head football coaclt In 1918, he remained until death ended his career In an air crash in 1931. In those years Rock created a record that included 105 victories, 12 defeats, five ties and five unbeaten-untied seasons. 
Sculptor Williams, from Henderson and Berea College in the Clements county of Kentucky, also attended Butler Uni\*ersity and the Hcrron and Chicago Art Institutes. Formerly a free-lance sculptor-designer in Chicago, he supervises the art program besides teaching astronomy, telescope making and photography at Culver. 
1915 
James E. Sanford 1429W.FarragutAv. •--S< Chicago 40, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: The mails have brought reports of an inordinate number of losses to the Class. Last September 29 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 23 
saw the deaih of Seiior Ing. Don Jose Fcmaiidi* Braclio y del a Pcna, belter known to the Class as JOSE BRACHO, a civil engineering grad wlm was founder and president of Constnictora Laguncra. S.A., in Torrcon, Coatmila, Mexico. Jose also anendcd Cornell, toured Europe and built banks, airports, apartments and other public buildings throughout Central Mexico, many of whidi arc shown in Rcvista Torrcon, a local magazine sent by his son Jose, general manager of the company. He was a leader of Rotary- International and various professional societies. 
JOHN S. MALCOLM died this past December in Boynton Beacli, Fla., after a short illness, and DR. FRANK FINNEGAN was reported dead by return mail from University City, Mo. Willi the death of RAYMOND SULLIVAN in Xovcmbcr, there have been four depictions of the ranks in the past few months. Deep s>-mpathy to the widows and families of these men. The prayers of classmates are requested to supplement those on the campus. 
JOE BYRNE, JR., graciously acknowledged last issue's notes on the Byrne Co. 75th anniversary, adding: "The only part that disappointed mc at all (about the photo of three living generations of Joseplis admiring the founder's portrait), if you will forgive me, is that I would have liked to have mentioned that the senior Byrne was a member of the Class of 1879. Wc are very proud of this." Well might you be, Joe; sorry about the o\-crsight. 
1916 
Grovcr F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, ^Visconsin 
From the Alumni Ofiice: 
After a twenty-year illness, lawver GEORGE DONAHUE, who ^^as with the Class 1913-15, died in the Veterans' Hospital in Los Angeles, Calif., where he has lived since 1939. A deputy- prose­cutor and justice of the peace in St. Joseph County during the twenties, he served during World War II and was active in veterans afTairs. Sympathy to his children and grandchildren. 
BILL BRADBURY checked in with some nws about brother Stan, to be found in tlic 1923 column, and a personal greeting, via FATHER JOHN J. GAVANAUGH, C.S.C., to G. N. SHUSTER. Continuing word from Robinson, 111., U appreciated. 
possibly make it to attend the reunion. Anyone who has ever partaken of Bernic's hospitality won't %\-ant to miss that wonderful evening at his home and the otlier activities, and anyone who may nc\'cr have had the privilege surely will be well rewarded if he is one of those present this time. 
From the Alumni Otiicc: 
FATHER MICH.VEL MULCAIRE, C.S.C., will provide a reunion bonus by saying tlic Mass on Sunday, June 10, in the hall cliapcl in celebration of the 40tli anniversary of his ordination as well as the 45th of the Class. Father Mike reminds us that all members of his ordination class oC '22 arc still living. 
The football stadium at the University of Day­ton will henceforth be known as Baujan Field in Jionor of HARRY C. BAUJxVN, veteran coacli who is now U.l>. director of atlilctics. 
Word from Minneapolis has it that lawyer ED­WARD F. BARRETT has been deceased since be-for the 40th reunion. We're glad finally to admit his intentions to the Masses and prayers that alumni receive regularly on the campus. 
1918 
Charles W. CaU 225 Paterson Ave, Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 
JIM LOGAN, along with the clxvs secretary- one of the two holders of journalism degrees au'arded in 1918, recently retired as chairman of the Moun­tain States Council, Inc., after 23 years in that responsible position, at Denver, Colo. Together witli Mrs, Logan, Jim is planning a European trip later in the year. 
Class president JOHN A. LE.MMER, long an advance scout on the educational front until his retirement at Escanafia. Midi., and currently super­vising the University of Michigan Extension Ser\-­ice in his area, spent a winter v'acation in Arizona, together 'with Mrs. Lemmer. 
To MAXIMILIAN G. KAZUS, LL.B., as alu^ys of Buffalo, N.y., goes the distinction of being the first classmate to firm up his promise to be on hand at the 45ih reunion on the campus in June, 1963. From this distinguished alumnus let us take increased devotion, or something, and plan right now to be present in this later-than-yoii-think era. 
1919 
Paul R. Byrne Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
From the Alumni Oflice: The Class can be particularly proud of a departed member who has left the University an eventual bequest of about $435,000 under the terms of his will, probated recently in Toledo, O. The late FRANK R. LOCKARD, former president of the Red Cab Co. of Toledo, named N.D. as principal beneficiary of his will, which also proridcd that the University could become owner of the company when his vice-president died. ^ Frank was a reserve quarterback on the great '18 " team that could boast such future greats as GEORGE GIPP, HUNK .ANDERSON, CURLY LAMBEAU and SLIP MADIGAN. He died nearly a year ago in possession of 98 per cent of the Red Cab stock. These shares will be transferred to Notre Dame when his suc­cessor dies and if the firm is still in operation. Tliis amounts to about two thirds of Frank's estate after his executor's salar>*, other bequests and ad­ministrative costs. PROF. PAUL FENLOX is still rather misty about the little group of former students who got a fund together for his last birthday as a testi­monial to his long labors in Notre Dame's English department. He thanks one and all and pledgee ^. not to put it all on the same horse's nose. " ­
1920 
James H. Ryan 170 Maybrook Rd-Rochester 18, N, Y. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Just before Christmas a talk on his "^'living phi­losophy," entitled "Tliis I Believe" was given in Orchestra Hall to the Chicago Sunday Evening Club by THOM.\S H. BEACOM, senior vice-president of tlic First National Bank of Chicago. It was subsequently printed in Chicago newspapers, noted by BERNIE VOLL, *17, and reprinted inJ ^ January by FATHER GLENN BOARMAN. C.S.C.,' '46, student chaplain, in his Religious Bulletin. Finally, for the edification of classmates and all Notre Dame men, it is excerpted here: 
*'It is obvious that some men . . . subordinate reason to emotions . . . exalt the senses above the mind . . . mistake opinion for fact . . . confuse knowledge and wisdom. Merely to know the right thing is not enough. Cardinal Ne^vniaii told us 
1917 
Edward J. McOsker 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, Illinois 
Received a nice note from JAMES D. HAYES, enclosing copy of a letter he had written BERNARD 
J. VOLL in acknowledgment of Bemic's inritation to members of the Class of '17 to again be his guests for dinner and *'thc usual fcstiritics" on the Friday evening of tlic forthcoming class reunion. Jim, u-ho is in Washington — with the Veterans' 
Bureau, I believe — had not yet made up his mind whether he woiUd be on liand for the reunion. 

MEMORIAL PLAQUE for the birthplace of Knutc Rockne, '14, in Voss, Norway, was 
cast in bronze from a relief by Indiana sculptor Warner Williams (right). Details of thc^ space to urge any and all sevcntccncrs who can unusual tribute can be found in the Class of 1914 column on these pages. 
TTiis is your sccretar>*'s last opportunity in this 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 

An intellectual serriee ol the Univenitr ei Notia Oom* for the constant enrichment of the minda of-Notre Dame's diverse iamilr 

THE RACE MYTH AND THE CHRISTIAN CONSCIENCE 
by William If Antonio 

This article was developed from papers delivered at last year's Alumni Forums on the Notre Dame campus and^ at a recent convocation at Ripon College. Dr. D'Antonio, assistant 
^ professor of sociology at the University, joined the faculty in September, 1959. In his writing and research he has special­ized in the subjects of community power, national images and Mexico. He is co-editor of Power and Democracy in America. A native of New Haven, Conn., Prof. D'Antonio was grad­uated from Yale University in 1949. He spent tlie following summer at the National University of Mexico. He received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin in 195S, and Michigan State University awarded^him a doctorate in 1957. He was a teacher at theLoomis School, Windsor, Conn., from 19i9 to 195i. Before coming to Notre Dame he taught for two years at Michigan State. 
Y
ou MAY WONDEB at the title; whatever your view of racism, 
^ I suppose you would reject the notion that the race prob­lem is a myth. It is in fact very real, and it becomes more disturbing to some people by the day. 
Let us consider the following items: Two men are talk­ing, "I don't like the San Francisco Giants; they have too many niggers on their team." .. . A group of boys are standing on the sidewalk in a respectable middle-class neigh­borhood. A car goes by with a Negro driving, and one of the boys yells out, "Hey, nigger!" .. . In Park Forest, Illinois, made famous by the writings of William H. Whyte in Fortune and his book The Organization Man, a new group is formed in 1960 called the Park Forest Eesidents Association. The founder declares that the purpose of the group is to boycott Negroes socially and attempt to elect trustees of Park Forest 
0wh o will tell them (Negroes) that moving into the community "is not the thing to do." .. . A group of 150 persons, including teachers, ministers and students, organize a freedom walk from Alton, Illinois, to St. Louis (a distance of 30 miles) to protest segregation and discrimination. In Granite City, along the way, they are cursed, spat upon, kicked and shoved off the sidewalk.... Some very close friends respond to an article which I wrote on the race question. They have discussed the article with their neighbors, and all came to the conclusion that "they would not tolerate a Negro family moving into our neighborhood." 
^ In this article I want to examine some of the dimensions • of this race question as they relate or should relate to the Christian conscience. 
CONSCIENCE — When we speak of the conscience we speak of that moral sense of right and wrong in each human being which is supposed to guide behavior. We are not bom with a conscience which automatically knows right from wrong. We are bom "only with the potential of a conscience and the capacity to do right. But our conscience grows within us as a result of our socio-cultural experiences. It is a com­plex of values, beliefs, ideas and attitudes which are supposed to help us distinguish right from wrong and guide our actions accordingly. 
AMERICAN, CHRISTIAN — I use the adjectives to 
specify particular sets of values, beliefs and attitudes which 
A cohere to form the American and Christian consciences. Whether or not the American conscience is actively, positively Christian today, it must be admitted that this conscience was formed in part by Christian principles. It was also formed in part by the new ideas emerging out of the reformation and the enlightenment, a new appreciation of man in society, his dignity and his.essential equality. 
Among the central ideas which inform the American con­science must be admitted the following: that each individual l^shonld have the maximum opportunity to fulfill himself in­tellectaally, spiritually and socially; that an individual's ability 
to get ahead wiU be judged on the basis of his achievement and not on any other basis; that we must tolerate and respect differences of opinion and different ways of life;' that the free-' dom of every individual is our concern, and this freedom entails that each individual will have the widest possible choice of alternative courses of action within a framework'of social order; and, to the extent that this is still a.Christiui society, that somehow we must learn to love our neighbor as ourselves. 
The truly Christian conscience, built on a Judaic founda­tion, centers in the life of Christ. This fact should have a tremendous consequence for those who would profess it: the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, hence man's essential dignity; the Ten Commandments, the Creed, the Sermon on the Mount; Christ's. Commandment to love God and our neighbor, and to preach this gospel to all nations. In the Community of Saints man works out his sal­vation by saving other men. It is not enough that these beliefs and values be accepted at a highly abstract level; the mature conscience is also aware of the norms or rules by which specific goals related to .these beliefs can be accomplished. 
RACE — The word race refers to a biological fact in its most accurate usage. A race "is one of the group of popu­lations which constitute the species homo sapiens." On the basis of observable physical characteristics, the human species is generally divided into three major racial groupings: the Negroid, the Mongoloid, and the Caucasoid. From the purely biological point of view these races are quite capable of inter­breeding with one another. The physiological features which dif­ferentiate them are the result of long and somewhat different histories which represent nothing more than a- variation on a common theme. These differences in no way preclude bene­ficial interbreeding. The similarities between the races are much greater than the differences. The differences which mark man, intellectually, socially, spiritually, are not related to any innate racial differences. "They are the result of different sodo­cultural histories. We now know that given similar d^rees of cultural opportimity to realize their potentialities, the aver-, age achievement of each of the races is about the same. So we must conclude that personality and character are raceless in any biological understanding of that term. 
Furthermore, we ought to realize that the races of man have been intermixing from the earliest times. This statement is in accord both with the findings of anthropologists and the teachings of theologians on the origin and nature of man. There is simply no biolo^cal or theological basis for justifying the prohibition of intermarriage between races. 
T
HE BK/Ui FROBLEM, of course, is that race is not so much a biological phenomenon as a social myth. And it is the social myth that causes us so much heartache and strife today in the United States. A MYTH may be thought of as a sacred tradition which explains an otherwise imexplainable mystery. It has all the force of reality and serves especially well where any other kind of knowledge is lacking. If. people believe something to be real, it will have real consequence for them. 
In the case of race, we have long used the myth that people were different intellectually, spiritually and socially because they were members of different races. According to this myth some races are believed to be innately superior to others. In this case, then, the myth has servedtohelp informi the con­science, to provide a basis for judging right and wrong. S^re-^ gating the Negro can't be wrong if he's inferior. 
But we can now replace myth with-facts of a''different order, observable scientific facts, and the myth must and wiU disappear in the face of these facts. In this ease I would say that scientific evidence will not replace the Christian or Amen­can consciences with a new conscience but will verify as valid 
the highest ideals of CSiristianity and the American spirit. 
The evidence is there for all of us to see now, and it is 
incumbent upon us to see it and act upon it. We must do more 
than merely nod passively at St. Paul's dictum that "God has 
made of one blood all nations of men to dwell on the face of 
the earth." 
The internationally known anthropologist Ashley Montagu 
has stated the problem well: ". . , biological studies lend sup­
port to the ethic of universal brotherhood; for man is bom 
with drives toward cooperation, and unless those drives are 
satisfied, men and nations alike fall ill. Man is bom a social 
being who can reach his fullest development only through 
interaction with his fellows. The denial at any point of this 
social bond between man and man brings vdth. it disintegra­
tion. In this sense, every man is his brother's keeper. 
Let's face it, social scientists aren't "nigger lovers," as I 
was once called by a student who just couldn't imderstand 
why I would try to argue the equality and the essential broth­
erhood of man from scientific data. If social scientists and 
biologists had found that one race was superior to another, 
they would have to say so; but the evidence is all in the oppo­
site direction. What the biologist and social scientist now 
know confirms what God told us centuries ago. 
Yes, I know, most Negroes are in the lower class; they are uneducated, do live in the worst slimis in the city, and they do have high rates of family instability. And perhaps they do own flashy cars. And they don't keep their slums looking beautiful. And perhaps also they muss up new low-cost housing projects, and they fill up the bathtub with coal, although this charge is now beginning to sound silly, what with central heating and all. I know that some wiU say that it isn't silly, that you've seen it yourself or a friend of yours has seen this. But remember that what you perceive is largely preconceived. You may see these social facts but interpret them in terms of the myth. You have a stereotype of the Negro and may never really see a Negro except in terms of the stereotype. And if you can always rely on your stereotype you can even maintain a good Christian conscience, I suppose. You will never have to ask yourself what these facts mean, how they should be interpreted. 
But even if all the charges against the Negro are true, let us ranember that only a generation ago the majority of American Catholics and Jews lived in slums, were in the lower class and were i-elatively uneducated. Some immigrant groups had high crime rates, and there were many people around who insisted that they were nneducable. 
You can maintain, and rightly so, that white Protestants, Catholics and Jews have not had the same high rates of family instability as the Negro. But again you should know all the causes and differences here. The slavery pattern which de­veloped in this country made family stability among the Negroes highly improbable. The male slave was often used as a stud or sold without regard to family concerns, and stable family patterns were prohibited on many plantations. As a result, a mother-centered family pattern arose. The tradition of formal marriage among Negroes, common in Africa, was strongly shaken by our slavery system. 
There is also a modem factor. The Negro male is low man on the occupational totem pole. His economic situation is precarious. He has become a wanderer from place to place seddng employment. Stable family patterns just don't develop under these circumstances. The same pattern of family insta­bility exists among lower class whites whose economic position is as precarious. 
And let us be very cautious about Negroes and crime. It must be remembered that only a minutely small proportion of people, white or Negro, are ever guilty of a crime. To gen­eralize and to think of men as criminals because they are N^roes is only to continue the myth. We may perceive the case of rape only when it involves the Negro raping the white woman and not be conscious of the reverse pattern, although in fact it may be even more frequent. 
I was recently told by a probation officer that two out of three youths being apprehended in his area are Catholic It would be very easy to draw the wrong generalization from this ditwiti 
L
ET US EXAMINE five areas of American life where the race 
J question and the American (Christian) conscience dash | 
head on. What are the beliefs? What are the facts? What 
interpretations can be drawn? What can be done about them? 
A. Real Estate and Housing. -The most complete single statement on housing is the report of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, largely developed by Father Hesburgh. The American Christian should have cause to wonder about the strength and health of his conscience if he cannot freely accept what this statement demands. 
There have been several important studies of interracial public housing in recent years, the most famous perhaps being the study by Morton Deutsch and Mary Collins. They com­pared living patterns and attitudes in four housing projects: ^ two integrated projects in New York City and two segregated " projects in Newark. The results of the study showed clearly that in the integrated projects (1) there were many more instances of friendly, neighborly contacts between members of the different races; (2) there was a social atmosphere more favorable to friendly interracial associations; and (3) there were more favorable attitudes toward Negroes in the project and also toward the Negro people in general. 
In short, when the whites found that they had to live next door to Negroes they also found that they could do so and that, in fact, Negroes could become their best friends. Inter­racial integrated housing provides a situation in which Negroes and whites interact as status equals, and this can effectively ^ break down prejudice and discrimination. 
But most of you are single home owners, and you are con­cerned about your personal property, not about public housing. What solace does the social scientist have to offer you when your pocketbook is threatened? 
Eecentiy faculty members at the University of California published four volumes about public and private housing in the United States; it is a very impressive series of works and deserves your attention. I will confine my observations to one of these volumes. Property Values and Race by econo­mist Luigi Laurenti. His findings were summarized last year in Ave Maria magazine. 
Laurenti wanted to find out if property values really went down when Negroes moved in. He had to get at the strictly f racial influence on housing. To do this he had to find similar dwelling areas, one of which had remained all white while the other had become integrated. In all, he made some 10,000 case studies of real estate transactions over a six-year period in 39 all-white and new interracial neighborhoods of seven American cities. 
His conclusions — entry of Negroes rarely causes prices to fall; they will more likely rise. In fact, Laurenti says that "the odds are about four to one that house prices in a neigh­borhood entered by non-white will keep up with or exceed prices in a comparable all-white area." People often ask what percentage of the population in the interracial areas wasC Negro; Laurenti gives the data here also — the percentage ranged from two to 75 per cent without affecting prices in either case. 
Now there is another type of housing problem, particularly evident in cities like Chicago where the black ghetto borders on the white neighborhood. When the barrier is lowered the white neighborhood may be flooded. But this is hardly the fault of the Negro.' He is only seeking to get out of the hell in which he has suffered for so long. Panic selling is a major factor in the Negro invasion: "I won't be the first to sell, but I sure won't be the last." 
An article by Vincent Giese in the magazine Perspectives, since expanded in the book Revolution in the City, shows how the Chicago community in which he lives has undergone change. The results are both hopeful and discouraging. 4' 
"The racial change in Grand Crossing was slow.... "In my own block the ratio is 50-50, but interestingly enough little change has taken place in over a year, except that five new brick homes have been built on vacant land and sold to Negroes. (That won't hurt our property values any.) Those who found it profitable have sold and moved; the rest will most likely hang on, at le ^ for a while, either because of financial hardship, old age, or simply because of a decisioi^., to zoake a go of .interracial living and avoid all the headache^' 
of palling stakes and moving. Once people have lived in an 
( integrated block for a year or so, their fears seem to calm down and they discover that it isn't too terrible after all, so why fight it, why get all worked up, panic and move." The discouraging aspect comes when we consider the tactics that were used when change was just beginning: "When Grand Crossing began to change, real estate sharks went door to door to see if any of us wanted to sell homes. Such remarks as the following were standard: 'They are only a couple of blocks away, so you better sell now while you can get your price,' or 'You know, of course, that Mr. So-and-So just sold his home down the street.' This general harassment contributed in no small degree to the panic atmosphere in 
k the neighborhood. In some instances, the real estate sharks were more brazen in their block-busting attempts." 
pBMHAPs MOST discouraging of all is the fact that whereas ^ before integration there were 8,000 Catholics in the parish in which Giese lives, now there are less than 2,000. I suppose you can argue that the Catholics were giving the Negro a break. The whole parish structure was shaken, and the parish is almost literally a mission now. 
There is one more problem with respect to housing. I have heard the charge that Negroes really prefer to live with their own kind in their own section of a city, and it is really the dangerous rabble rousers and radicals who want to force them 
> down white throats. I say malarkey. But if this charge does have any validity, then I would agree with Rev. William Sloan Coffin of Yale that this is the greatest charge that can be made against segregation. For we know that people behave largely as they are expected to behave. In this case the Negro becomes subservient and prefers to stay with his own kind, because he knows that is what the white man wants of him, and that he may suffer stonings and bodily harm if he doesn't conform. 
B. Dating and Marriage. Sooner or later, if you try to discuss housing with segregationists, you find yourself face to face with the ultimate question, and this ultimate question doesn't involve God and His commandments. Nothing so in-ele­. vant as all that. The question: "Do you want your daughter ' to marry a Negro?" This is supposed to restore the sanity of the confused liberal. But let us examine the question. It sug­gests a number of thingrs, but principally: (1) that all our daughters or many of our daughters or some of our daughters are just waiting, almost panting with desire, to be free of the chains with which we have bound them and to marry Negroes; and (2) that there is something inherently inferior about the white male when he must compete openly with the Negro male. Even if Patterson did beat Johanssen I must deny this. No matter what you may have heard about Negro sexual prowess, let me assure you that if in the beg^inning I was 
»arguing for Negro equality based on all available biological evidence I can just as readily go to the defense of the white male now. So I would have to say that both implications are patently false. 
Anyone who would take the trouble to read recent studies on dating and mate selection in the U.S. would recognize a great variety of socio-cultural factors which nan'owly delimit the choice of mate. Heligion, social class, ethnic background, educational factors, personal interests and beliefs all enter in. And we find that where the family gives the child a favorable home life, the family is the most influential factor. . 
• All the evidence points to the fact that Negroes have no greater desire to marry whites than whites to marry Negroes. I would still argue that from the Christian viewpoint — or the viewpoint of commonly accepted American values — our . concern should not be to prevent intermarriage but to encour­'age social equality for the Negro so that race will become no more important a factor in marriage in this country than it is in Hawaii or used to be in Brazil. It is strange that a society which values freedom, equality and individual responsi­bility should deny these when it comes to interracial marriage. Finally, marriage studies reveal that even when legal barriers to intermarriage are lifted, as they were in Cali­fornia in 1948, there is no great rush to marriage between 
.the races. Interracial marriage will become, more common 'in the future, but by that time the prejudices which now prevent it will have disappeared, and so eventually will, thi 
Negro as a race in this country. • '' 
C. Job Opportunities. We.caimot demand that the N^n^ show more initiative before we are ready to admit him to on: society with full and equal status and at the same timeTestric him in job opportunities. 
We just do not give the Negro equal job opportunities eviei when he is qualified. Outside of government service less thai one per cent of Negroes are employed in white collar jobs I was doing a study of hospital personnel a couple of summer! ago. I chatted informally with personnel directors in botl Catholic and non-Catholic hospitals. And. their stories wen the same. They were inundated with job applications from Negroes. The fact that stood out in my mind was that thej did not deny that the Negroes were qualified; they simplj were afraid to hire them. They admitted that they wert hiring white girls as stenographers who were not nearly as well qualified as the Negro applicants, but their plea was that the physicians and other office members wouldn't accept them. 
The same problem is reported to prevail in at least two corporations in South Bend, where the justification of the personnel manager is that the department heads will not accept Negroes in their employ. I presume this is prevalent through­out our industrial empire. If we wish to Tngintain the myth of Negro inferiority then we must of course exclude them from decent jobs. By so doing we can fulfill the prophecy. We can claim that they aren't qualified and prove it by the fact that they don't hold any decent jobs.' 
Family instability and delinquency will remain high for the Negro as long as he is denied equal job opportunity. 
D. Education. Why should there be any problems here? The most strongly heard charge is that the admission of Ne­groes to all-white schools will lower the caliber of the schools. The inference is still there that the Negro is. inferior. But the I.Q. tests of soldiers taken during the first World War should long ago have dispelled that notion. Yon should know by now that the Northern Negroes generally scored higher on these tests than the Southern white boys. The conclusion to be drawn is this: not that the Northern Negro is better than the Southern white boy, but that the Southern white boy is just as good as the Northern Negro. 
Perhaps there may be a period of lag when the schools are integrated, because the Negroes come from inferior schools. But I would argue that strong Negro motivation to succeed may more than compensate for their lack of preparation. Certainly we should not continue the disparity just because the Negro is less well prepared. That way leads only to a continuation of the injustice. 
D
B. JAMES B . CONANT, former president of Harvard Uni­versity, who in recent years has been doing much study­ing of the American school system, has just piiblished a new book called Slums and Suburbs. Dr. Conant found that in the slums, particularly in the Negro slums, well over half of the boys aged 16 to 21 are out of school and out of work. They spend much of their time fighting each other and hating the white man. These slums are fast becoming the dynamite on our own doorsteps, perhaps a more imminent danger to our society than the atomic bomb. Dr. Conant urges that we need some 300,000 new jobs right now to help these young men find a decent place in society. But the situation is almost hopeless because they are so littie prepared to do anything and we are not prepared to dream up the jobs. In an era which demands more and more education the Negroes of the slums have become the underdeveloped people of the United States. 
Dr. Conant calls the difference between the slum and suburb "profoundly shocking." Twice as much is spent to educate the child of the suburb, but Dr. Conant believes that these ratios might well be reversed. 
Some exciting experimental work is being done in New York City to combat this situation, but'up to now what has been done is only a drop in the bucket. I The educational problem is closely interlinked with the housing problem and to some extent the dating-mate selection problem. Even Negroes who can afford to move into areas with better schools find themselves blocked. 
Here Catholic schools should have a major role to plajr. 
Parochial schools should all have been integrated long ago. Yet just recently a Monsignor insisted to me that he had heard a good justification for the separate-but-equal theory of edu­cation from a Eedemptorist theologian. Even if such were theoretically possible, I cannot see it justified on Christian principles. For the separate-but-equal principle insists that there is something wrong with race mixing. 
White Catholics fear school integration for a number of reasons, some of which have already been touched on. A lawyer friend of mine confessed to me some time ago that he was sorely distressed by the turn of events in the school which his children were attending. The children wei-e going to have a school dance, and there were Negroes and whites in the classes. This happened to be a parochial school and the nuns had let it be known that it was perfectly all right for the Negro and white children to dance together if they wanted to. But this parent didn't want his children to dance with the Negroes because he saw this as the first step toward inter­racial marriage. He was caught in a real bind because his conscience was bothering him; he no longer was sure what was right and what was wrong. 
In spite of the agonies of transition, it seems certain to me that we will maintain tliis complex problem of segregation and discrimination in education and housing at our own peril. 
E. The Churcli. The South is not the only place where the Church has failed to meet the problem before it had,become a crisis. The hierarchy are only now acting, and we hope that they will not be so bound by prudent concern for their fund drives that they will allow grave injustices to persist. 
It seems to me that none of the major religious bodies in the United States has done a particularly good job of leading the fight against prejudice and discrimination. At the risk of 
_ appearing sacrilegious I would like to tell this little story which I heard some years ago and have never been able to forget. It seems that a little Negro boy, dressed neatly but not ostentatiously, went walking one Sunday morning and saw a beautiful church and decided to enter. But as he reached the door he was gently turned away by the usher, who informed him that this Church was not for him. He felt sure that there was some mistake, so he tried again at the side door but again was turned away. Very dis­consolately, he sat do^vn at the curb and started to cry. At that moment Christ appeared on the scene and asked him why he was crying. He replied that he wanted to go into that "beautiful church but that he had been turned away. Christ replied: "There, there, lad, don't feel so sad; I have been trying to get into that church myself for 20 years and haven't been accepted either." 
It seems to me that the Christian churches should be lead­ing the way, not merely mouthing high-sounding phrases. Church leaders seem to shy away from that martyrdom which was such an important part of early Church history. There have been all too few men like Archbishop Bummel of New 
. Orleans and Rev. Coffin of Yale University. It is, a sad com­mentary that our Christian leaders have faltered so badly in not showing us what it should mean to live by a Christian conscience. 
T
HESE, THEN, are the areas of myth and reality in our contemporary racial crisis. Am I trying to insinuate that to live by the Christian conscience requires heroic virtue of all of us? Do we have to be actively engaged to be Christians? Can we. be Christians otherwise? 
Suppose you agree that the Negro and the white in the United States have a serious problem and that it must be solved. "What can you do? You can begin at least by applying your principles in your daily conversation. 
Don't allow others to use the word'nigger or some other derogatory reference to the Negro. Be firm and not afraid to be called a lover of your fellow man. Are you preparing yourself psychologically to accept a Negro in church, in your parochial school, next door? 
In trying to offer you something positive, let me disabuse yon of another myth: the myth that time will take care of everything. Time is neutral; it will take care of nothing. The dynamite on'our doorsteps in the slums may blow us up one of these days. You may believe in a theory of progress and evolution^—and I do—but you don't have to resign yourself passively to it. I reject the notion that it is wrong and useless to try to tamper with society, that these problems must work themselves out naturally. This is to yield to a kind of deter­minism that makes of man a mere robot. We may not be free in an absolute sense, but we do have areas of freedom and responsibility; we "can choose between alternatives, and we can create alternatives. 
Should we try to use federal law to enforce American principles? Some would argue that this is interfering in problems that properly belong to one or another section of the country. Most Southern senators and congressmen would graciously leave New York's or Chicago's problems to New York and Chicago if the North would just let them alone. But I prefer the view of Eev. CofiSn: "It is ridiculous to assert that the North is interfering with the South when in actuality it is the South that is interfering with the Nation." 
I am all for using .the federal government and local govern­ment, for that matter, to help bring about conditions that will make it possible for the Negro to interact with us as a status equal without force or violence. But beyond this a large measure of the problem remains with the individual. If we believe in conscience that the Negro must be helped now, not only for himself but also for the preservation and spread of our own most cherished beliefs, then we must act. 
But here a further problem presents itself. Middle-class people who are devoted to the ideas that define the American and Christian conscience ai-e at a disadvantage in the race problem. We_ are committed to reason and chax-ity rather than violence in the resolution of our problems, and it is difiicult to know how to react to the violence of the race haters, such as has been displayed in so many parts of the North and South. I think "we have to learn the technique of nonviolent protest from our Negro friends, and not be afraid to suffer. St. Theresa did not enjoy suffering; it was bitter for her, but she persevered. More and more whites are learning this and practicing it—and with effect. 
It may be easy to be a Christian if you live completely sheltered in an upper class neighborhood and you never have to face temptation. Such may not be possible today. I wonder if a Christian should feel comfortable in such a situation. 
If the challenge comes your ivay, how will you react? What will be said of you in your community? That you are a clever person, one who knows all the angles, and helped to keep the niggers out of the neighborhood? Or will you be cursed by some of your neighbors, perhaps a majority of them, and by some of your own family, because you have attempted to live according to the principles that give your conscience its deepest and most satisfying meaning? Are you ready to recognize what it means to say that in the Community of Saints man must work out his salvation through helping others—whatever the color of their skin? 
RELATED READING 
SLUMS AND SUBURBS. James B. ConanL New York: McGraw-Hill, 1961. 147 pp., $3.95. EEVOLUTION IN THE CITY. Vincent Giese. Notre Dame: Fides PubUshers, 1961. 123 pp., $2.95. , BLACK LIKE ME. John Howard Griffin. New York: Houghton-Mifflin, 1961. 176 pp., ?3.50. ' PEOPEKTY VALUES AND RACE. Luigi Laurenti. Berkeley: Uni­versity of California Press, 1960. 256 pp., ?6.00. FREEDOM BIDE. James Peek. New York: Simon & Schuster, 1962. 160 pp., $3.50. DIARY OP A SIT-IN. Merrill Proudfoot. Chapel Hill: Universitj'^ of North Carolina Press, 1962. 204 pp., $5.00. 
MAN'S MOST DANGEROUS MYTH: THE FALLACY OF KACE. MJ". 
Ashley^ Montagu. {Tiurd Edition) New York: Harper, 
1952. 362 pp., $5.00. 
1961 REPORT. V. S. Commission on Civil Rights. Available from the Superintaident of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C. 1393 pp., |5.25. 
ORGANIZATION MAN. William H. Whyte. New York: Simon £ | Schuster, 1952. 429 pp., $5.00. Doubleday (pap.), $1.45. 
WILLIAM J. BRODERIGK, '27, was feted recently for 30 years of service to the University by fellow business officeis and a few other "senior citizens" of Notre Dame whose names and years of ser\'ice {in parentheses) may be of interest (or awe) to alumni: (scatei from left) M. Robert Cahill, Athletic Dept. (34); James E. Armstrong, Alumni (37); Broderick, Investment OCBcer (30); J, Arthur Haley, Public Relations (36); Herbert E. Jones, Athletic (35); Richard Burke, Accounting (22); (standing from left) Otho Bendit Accounting (13); Leonard Kahler, Athletic (34); Jack Reddy, Accounting (16); Fred E. Freeman, Personnel (22); Leo Judy, Tabulating (7); Thomas Kirschner, Accounting (3); Joseph F. O'Brien, Personnel (7); Daniel J. Osberger, Auditing (8); Emcnt 
E. Moore, Student Accounts (19); Robert Loefiler, Dining Service (1); and Leo Corbaci, Academic Affairs (10). Average: 20. Total: 334­
why wlicn he wrote: 'Quarr>- the gi-anitc rock with razors, or moor the vessel with a thread of silk; then may you hope with sucli delicate instru­ments as human knowledge and human reason to contend against those giants, the passion and the pride of man.' . . . He is saying that we must act. Just as some deeds exceed our capacities, many realities are beyond the range of our think­ing and understanding. . , . We all u-ant . . . what we call happiness. .. . This is a law of our being. Happily the man who lias been given faith has at hand the means of attaining contentment in this life and has in bis possession a direction finder for 
the next. 
" "Whatever things liave been written have been ^ written for our instructions,' said St. Paul, 'that 
9 through the patience and the consolation afforded by the Scriptures we may have hope.' . . . He added . . . 'May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that you may abound in hope and in the power of the Holy Spirit.* Some would scorn this as mere rhetoric . . . My life has convinced ine that these words have substance and meaning. Tlicy help sustain in me a belief in God that is fixed and unshaken. The concept of a Supreme Intellect, a Divine First Cause, an Omnipotent, Omniscient Creator seems to me not difficult. . . . Atheists denying the existence of God, agnostics doubting the Incarnation and the Resurrection, skeptics uncertain of anything, even 
the historicity of Christ — to say nothing of His 
• 'Divinity — all have failed to convince nie cither that nothing can be proved or that everything must be provable. . . • Clearly each mind Itas many choices. I believe that the will has freedom to direct those choices. I do not believe that mind­less matter has evolved by accident, rather than by design, into an orderly universe. I do not believe that man himself no longer matters. I believe instead in a Supreme Being, endovvcd with all wisdom, who *had some purpose in giving us lite. . . , 
"If we think of the manifold talents needed to >plit the atom . . . why should we think it un­reasonable or impossible to conceive an all'knowing primary cause? And why should we be hesitant about identifying that Inscrutable Force, reverently, by the name of God? . . . Who among mortals can improve on the Ten Commandments as a code of beharior? . . • Our hope must reach beyond 
K:our grasp; our faith go beN-ond ourselves and our few short years upon the earth. So, at least, I believe. In the fullness of time there will come to me, as to all of Cod's other creatures, an end of this life. I shall not dread it. Not because I have no fear of Judgment but because I look upon the end here as a beginning hereafter. Of all beliefs my living has confirmed, this is the strong­est: that for the sake of his soul man was bom." 
To repeat the rolling phrase of TOM BEACOM, 


in the fullness of time there came to FRANK 
fc^LAMBERT HAYES, SR., of Waukcgan. 111., an Pend to this life. We have no date on the death, but a Chicago committeeman fonrarded the infor­
mation from Mrs. Hayes, for whom We ask your sj'mpathy, and for her late husband your continued prayers. 
1921 
Dan \V. Duffy 
1101 Superior BIdg. 
Cleveland 14, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: 
The administrator of his estate has informed the office that WILLIAM E. DONOVAN died July 1, 1961. Tliis word from Sarasota, Fla., is the first on his death, and no other details arc ai-ailable. 
There is unfortunately no doubt about the death of FATHER ROBERT SHEEH.\N, C-S.C, on the campus last month. A great scliolar and scientist. former head of the Notre Dame bioIog>- depart' nient, Father Shcclian will be mourned not only by his classmates but by two generations of Notre Dame pre-meds. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 

This is the last issue of the ALUMNUS you will receive prior to our gala. 40lh Annivcrsar>- Reunion to be held on June 8, 9 and 10. It is hoped that evcr>' class member who can possibly do so will attend the Reunion — not only that but also induce other class members in the same area or elsewhere to attend. ^Ve of '22 have a fine perforraancc record in everything we have attempted. This is no time to spoil our record, and responses to our appeals to dale seem to indicate that our 40th is going to rank with all our outstanding reunions ol the past. Our Class president, J, RALPH CORYN^ all the Class officers, along with South Bend chair­man, FRED DRESSEL, are anticipating a fine attendance. Please do not disappoint them. 
ROBERT GALLOWAY of Silver Creek, N.Y.. writes: "I can never forget the 25th Reunion. I knelt in the rear of the chapel and looked over 
the group that was back after so many years. 
Memory pushed aside the years and we were back again to the campus days. It is certain wc will have a great reunion in June." 
.v. HAROLD WEBER writes that FRED DRES­SEL makes a fine chairman and tliat he and the other '22 locals arc going to help Fred make the 40th Reunion a memorable one. Harold submits a fe\\' lines of verse that have not yet received the nod of our Class poet, but you \rill enjoy the thought: 
"The way your school chums look Will prc^ably surprise you; They've grown so bald and stout They hardly recognize you." 

From the D.AN YOUNGS in Kobe, Japan, on Februao' "^ came a postal telling of their fine \Tsit to the Far East. In addition to Japan, they are headed for Korea, Formosa, Okinau-a, the Philip­pines and Hong Kong. Dan did not fail to add that he expected to see us all at N.D. in June. 
VINCE H.ANRAHAN and family have a new home address: 3712 Stewart Dr., Chexy Chase 15, Mar>-land. Vince's next important move is to N.D. in early June to — you guessed it. 
Mrs. Ella McKee. widow of our beloved Harold, now resides at 43 Forest, Riverside, Illinois. 
Mary Dwyer, daughter of the WILFRED G. DWYERS of Long, Ohio, is no%v a first year stu­dent at Wheeling College (Jesuit co-ed). Wheeling, West Virginia. 
The Christmas address of the FRANK BLOEM­ERS was P.O. Box 79, Aripeka, Florida. Do not wager they are still there. 
CHET AVYNNE, JERRY DKON, JOE FARLEY and TOM McCABE will see to it that the '22 delegation to our 40th from Chicagoland will be a 
sizable one. 
From the Alumni Office: A postal tracer sent to the Central Office of the Veterans Administration in Washington, D.C., where the former Irish and Chicago Bears half­back, DR. JOHN HENRY MOHARDT, has been ser\-ing as assistant director of surgical services, has been returned marked "deceased." For the sake of wife Dorothy, children and grandchildren, wc hope the report is mistaken as such reports so often are. So just sit tight, and perhaps V..A. chief JOHN GLEASON, '36, wiU enlighten us on the whereabouts of the grid star u-ho became a star surgeon for the Mayo Clinic. Bulletin: The V.A. notice of John turned out to be true. John died last November in retirement in La Jolla, Calif. Requiescat in pace. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 25 
1923 
Louis V. Bruggner 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend. Indiana 

From the Alumni Office: 
From Robinson, HI., Ia«->cr WILLIAM E. BRAD­BURY, *16, sends word on his brother. State's Attorney J. STANLEY BRADBURY, in a most unlikely medium but one that does jusljcc to the "thriller" in whlcli he was involved. Tlie March issue of Master Detective has a lurid tale called "Bigamy. Bc-Bop — and Murder," telling of the brutal murder of local grocer Sam Burris, for wiiicli Stan Bradfaurv" indicted a ne'er-do-well named Charles Rowe and his red-headed Toni, "a piano pla>'ing cooch dancer with an extra husband.** Rowe was convicted and sentenced to life, but there was still some mystcr>' about which husband had the Toni. 
In the "'Front Vieu-s & Profiles" column of a recent Cliicago Tribune there is a cafe-circuit thumbnail biography of restaurateur JAY ADLER, owner, host and co-founder of Mickclberr>-'s Log Cabin restaurant in the Windy City. From bis late partner Jay inherited a fondness for Civil War and American Indian lore, has a collection of Southern relics, including tlic Confederate flag of (he Georgin Mickelbcrrj-s, is a Kentucky colonel (courtesy of former Gov. Happy Cliandlcr), sports a flov^ing black tic and ha%vg-jowI drawl — but was bom in JoKct. The eatery is famous for its unique rustic fumislilngs and home-type food. 
The Class was told how the Brentwood home of PLIN SWANSOX narrowly survived the recent terrible brushfires in the Hollj-^vood Hills. A sequel should be fortlicoming telling how tlic Swansons fared in the floods and muds of Fc^ruarv and Marcli. 
Recent word from tlic widow of FRANCIS L. CORRIGAN confirmed tliat he died more than a year ago in San Antonio, Tex. S>'mpathy to Frank's family, and please pray for him. 
1924 
James R. Mcchan 301S. Lafayette Blvd. SoulhBcnd 10. Tntl. 

From the Alumni Office: 
LESTER W. FOLEY, president of Foley Lumber Industries, Inc., has announced remo\'aI of the corporation offices to a new location, 3551 St. John's Avenue. Jacksonville, Fla, 
CHARLES OWEN MOLZ passed av%-ay Mav 28, 1961, in Pana, 111., and JOHN DELOS KEVILL of Des Flaines, III., and the law class, died at an undetermined time, according to recent mail re­turned to the office. Please pray for their Jnlen­tinn-;. 
1925  
'  f  John P. Hurley  
;  i  2085 Brookdale Road  
Tolrdo fi. Ohio  

Many of you probably read of BILL CERNEY'S death in your local paper. I believe it was about the 15th of February. Tlic Alumni office may be able to fill in the details. We understand ic wxis a long illness. We don't know how Bill died, but we do knou- how he lived. Smiling Bill was alwa>-s ready to give a helping hand to a needy project. He always helped on the local reunion committees. In fact, he was general chairman of our 25tli. A High Mass will be said for Bill, and be sure to 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
remember him in your prayers. We exleiid our 
deepest sx-mpathv to his uife and family. 
Last Sunday FATHER JA.MES MORAN, C.S.C., 

was tlie speaker at our Toledo Notre Dame Club 
Communion Breakfast. Father Moran gave a ver>' 
enlightening talk on his work as Director of Ad­
missions. Saturday evening I sat next to Father 
Jim at a dinner meeting of the Board of Governors 
of the club. Wc had a grand time talking about 
the '^prep'* da>*s at Notre Dame. We talked about 
JACK Sa\LLAN, DAN LAMONT, JOE FITZ­
PATRICK, "O.ATS" BYRNES, "ROME" DUGAN, 
"GOV" WALSH, JOHN WHIT-NLAN, JOHN 
H1LLE.NBRAND, PAUL RO.MWEBER and many 
others. 
FATHER MORAN said that JOHN H; A. WHIT­MAN died last week. He has been at King's Col­lege, Wllkes-Barre, Pa., for many years. A few years ago the students dedicated the yearbook to him. Remember Jo!in in your prayers, especially you "preps.** 
FRANCIS MEKUS was at the Cammnnion Break­fast with his cliamiing wife. This was the first 
N.D. affair that Frank has attended in many years. Frank is president of the largest bank in Fremont. Ohio, and has been ver>* active in the National Bankers Association. He looks great. He said his brother CARL MEKUS, who Hves in Arch-bold. Ohio, just lost his wife. We would like to extend the svnipathy of the class in vour great loss, Carl. 
Our classmate THONLAS CARF.AGNO really gets around. On his questionnaire he wrote **I*ni taking it easy . . . been from Canada, to Guate­mala and from Boston to Chicago in the last year." He planned to see the N.D. - U.S.C. game before last vear was up. 
.MORT STETTAUER is the manager of the South Bend office of the Chicago Tribune. His t\\o daughters, Mrs. Glenn Woods and Mrs. \Vil­
liam Bondc, have made Mort a happy grandpop manv times over with three at the last count, 
DR. CH.\RLES GUTH, D.S.C., almost made our 35ih, but his son Charles was graduating from Clearwater (Fla.) high ^hool and his two oldest daughters were back for the big occasion, so Charlie couldn*t make it. He wrote at the time: "So as I physically sit with my family walcliing my son receive his high school diploma, mentally and spiritually I shall be back on the campus at Notre Dame ^valking ami in arm with my friends and classmates of 1925. Tlic good Lord willing I'll look font'ard to our -lOth Reunion in 1965 with the hope that wc can all be together once more.** Charlie extended an in\-itation to you '25ers to drop in for a cliat with him and his wife if you are down in tlic Sunshine State. His address is 211 Douglas .Ave., Duncdin, Fla. 
Boj-s, keep tliat Foundation money coming in so wc can take advantage of GIL SCH.AEFFER*S ^vonderful offer. He pa>-s $20,000 if wc give $30,000 in the next three years. Let's go over the top! 
From the Alumni Office: 
South Bend's JOSEPH P. MILLER, as one of the local law grads, receives scant treatment in tliese coiumns. Somehow it \%*as overlooked that last fall Joe was elected president of the Interna-
REV. JOSEPH McGRATH, CS.C., international student ad\*isor, confers nvith Rev. J. Ramirez, S.J., chancellor oi Javcriana University, on a recent trip to Bogota, Colombia. 
tional Associaiion of Accident Boards and Conmiis-, sions at its meeting !n Hawaii. Joe has been a member of the Indiana Industrial Board at least since 1943, ser^'ing as cliairman under some ad­ministrations. His widespread fame in this field is obvious from the election. U'e*rc indebted to Calumet lawyer BILL TRAVIS, '27, for this in­formation. 
DANIEL .ANTHONY McNA\LARA of Detroit died January 26. Dan, whose death was reported to FATHER JOHN WALSH by his son, %%TIS wnth the Class for only a short time, but freshman classmates 'will wish to console his widow (13516 Sorrento, Detroit 27) and remember him in their prayers. J. H. A. WHITM.AN, who received the first of his many Notre Dame degrees w-Ith the Class, was deeply mourned at King's College , (where he died with his boots on, stricken in a ( colleague's office after daily ^fass) and in Wttkes-Barrc, Pa., papers. Few men arc missed by as many generations as "Doc" Whitman, who had already scr\-ed a quarter-century at N.D. when he went to King's in 1&45. BILL CERNEY, "the Fifth Horseman," died Fcbruar>' 17 of a ruptured aorta after a brief flare-up and several years of heart trouble. Of ELMER L/\YDEN'S 1936-37 assistant coaclies. Bill's death brings the survivor list dou-n to one, CHET GR.\NT, '21 — if we exclude diet's classmate J.AKE KLINE, who was freshman mentor then. Preceding Bill were JOHN 
J. O'BRIEN, '31 (Johnny died 25 years ago March 12); JOE BENDA, *28 (died 1950); and JOE BO­LAND, '27 (two years ago last February). Sur-, vi\-ing, besides Mrs. Ccmey, are t\vo sons, four | daughters and 12 grandcluldren. 
1926 
Frank A. Dcitlc 1763 Kcssler Blvd. Soutli Bend 16, Ind. 
.«2 

A letter from JOHN RYi\N — John always comes through when I need news. His letter states that RAY DURST left Chicago for Rome to attend the Ordination of his nephew, who is the son of our classmate, BOB DORAX. Ray and Mrs. Durst then sailed through the Mediterranean to New-Zealand and Australia. They will go on to South America, up through Mexico, and wind up in Arizona about the middle of April (about the time this reaches you). 
John also reminded me of another accomplish­ment of our Class President, RUDY GOEPFRICH. Rudy has sixteen grandcluldren — can any of our ^ class top that? Had lunch with Rudy recently—" the grandcliildren haven't aged him a bit. 
A note from JIM WALDRON at Christmas lime. Jim's sister-in-law, TOM FARRELL'S {*26) sister, died recently. 
Also at Christmas lime, an announcement tliat Mrs. Elizabeth Sanders and G.AIL GURNETT, *26, were married Dec. 28th at St. Mar>-'s Church, Peru, Illinois. I'm sure the Class joins with me in wishing them our best. 
DENNIS O'NEILL had the Class in mind in a New Year note to JIM ARMSTRONG from Rome. Excerpts from Denny*s letter: 
"VINCE McALOON ('34) gave us wonderful attention. There was a call from him waiting for us here at the hotel when we checked in Dec 23. Quite a group of us met at the N.D. Club Christ­mas Eve; ate at the ScogUo (before 9:30); went to St. Mary Major for the procession \\-itli the Relic of the Crib before Midnight Mass and thcn ^ across the street (less confusion) to tlie smaller^ church of the Redemptorist Fathers for Mass itself. Then back to the Club. Included in the group xvas BUCKY O'CONNOR'S son, Paul (medical student at Bologna), and bis charming' bride of two montlis. Dorothy and I took them to dinner. Vincc said that RAY DURST and his brother-in­law, BOB DORAN, were here for the lattcr's son's ordination a couple days before at the North Amer­ican College, but we have not made cooMcctions. There's quite a group with newly ordained priest-^ relatives and D. and I are just frivolous, but cqualK-^ busy, sightseers. 
"BROTHER THEOPHANE . has. been uondcrfur 
I to us — dfvoting the best part of two days lo shouing us around St. Peter's and Vatican City. Wc look him, FATHER HESTOX and BROTHER BERNARD to dinner Tuesday night. Wednesday wc had an audience *vitli the Holy Fatlicr and Dorothy—whose right leg had developed a museum or basilica foot from loo much \\-aIking — missed a stt-p on the Scala Regia, coming down aftenvard, and sprained her left foot rather badly. She thinks it is status gaining to have sprained it on Bernini's Royal Staircase rather than on tlie back stoop at home. Vince found us a wonderful English speak­ing, N'-V. hospital trained doctor who X-rayed it, taped it up and put her to bed for a day. That gave me a day on my own — vcslerday — and was FATHER OTOOLE'S and Brother T.'s guest 
' for a ride around the Vatican Gardens; visit to 
N.D. International School (most modem in Rome) and lunch at the Gcneralate." 
Remember REV. ISIDORE FUSSN'ECKER, O.S.B., in your prayers. He died in December, having taught for many years at St. Bernard's C«Ilet;e in Alabama after completing his studv be­latrdly with (he Class of '26. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 

.•\ few weeks ago the first notice of our 35tli ^ Class Reunion to be held on June 8th, 9tli and 9 lOth was sent out. An encouraging number of rclunis were received promptly. .-Vs ot ^farch 6 the following responses were received: Will Come: EM.METT I. BARRON, EDWIN A. BERKERY, SEBASTIAN T. BERNER, EUGENE F, BREN­N.AN, A. JOHN BRINK.MAN, JOHN P. BUTLER, WILLIA.M S. GATE, WILLIAM P. CL^tRKE, JR., .MAURICE P. COHE.\, JA.MES W. COLE.MAN, 
J. L. CONROY, L. E. CROWLEY, ANTHONY 
F. DBAS, GEORGE W. DOHERTY, WILLIA.M 
A. DOTTERWEICH, ALBERT L. DOYLE, THO.\l.AS B. DUNN, EUGENE H. EDWARDS, -MARC A. FIEHRER, ANDREW N. GALONE, OSCAR E. GARZA, JR., JOHN M. GLx\SKA, 

#
THOMAS F. GREE.\, JR., RICHARD L. HAL­PIN, M. ALBERT HENRY, LEO J. HERBERT, 
W. M. HOLLAND, ROBERT IRMIGER, HERB JONES, WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH, RAY.MOND 
G. KEISER, RAY.MOND E. KERSTING, EUGENE 
C. KNOBLOCK, REGIS I. LVVELLE, ALDEN 
E. LENHARD, CLAYTON LEROUX, .MICHAEL 
P. .McDERMOTT, JA.MES P. McFARLANE, ED­WARD F. McKENNA, EDWARD J. MCLAUGH­LIN, ^VILLIAM S. MacDONALD, RAY C. MARELLI, DR. EDWARD J. NUYER, ALOYSIUS 
W. MILLER, JOHN P. MONTBRUN, FRANK MOR.AN, 0 . E. MURPHY, THO.M.AS E. NASH, JOSEPH R. NULTY, THOMAS E. O'CONNOR, JAMES T, QUINN, CORNELIUS REG.AN, JR., JOHN J. REIDY, STEPHEN RONAY, NORB M. SCHARF, CARL M. SCHICKLER, DAN H. SHEERAN, J. L. SHEERIN, PATRICK F. SIZE, JOHN W. SLATTERY, HORACE G. SPILLER, 
R. D. STEPHAN, JOHN E. SULLIVAN, LUTHER 

M,M. SWYGERT, WLUA.M L. TRAVIS, ERNEST 
J. WILHELM, and DONALD J. WILKINS. Tlie following have said they may come: PAUL 
J. ANDERSON, JOSEPH A. BEATTIE, HARRY 
M. BIEDKA, RAYMOND J. BONINI, A. J. BRADLEY, HAROLD J. CASEY, P. J. CLARK, SR., FRANKLIN L. CONWAY, W. J. CORBETT, JR., DANIEL F. CUNNINGHAM, JR., ROBERT 
C. DUNN, BERNARD L. EPSTEIN, DON.ALD 
A. FITZGERALD, ROBERT B. FORBES, A. J. 

GANDOLPH, JOSEPH A. GARTLAND, JR., ^CHARLES R. GOSLIN, JOHN E. HARWOOD, VDAVI D P. HICKEY, BENJAMIN T. HOWARD, 
CHARLES E. JUDGE, THOMAS F. KENNX 

FAMILY OF THOMAS FROST, '30, congregated last year for an unaccustomed group photo in Watertown, Wis., where Tom is a Chevrolet dealer: (from left) Mike, in grade school; Elizabeth, married and living in Dallas, Tex.; Mrs. Frost (Marie); Mary, pursuing her master's in hbtory at Northwestern; Nick, a junior at N.D.; Tom the elder; young Tom, a soph at St. Norbert's College; and Jeffrey, now in high school. 
JR., ST.ANLEY LECHOWICK, RICKARD K. LLOYD, FRiVNK .McGEE, JOSEPH E. M.ADDEN, CARL A. M.ATTHES, REV. JAMES J. MORAN, LYLE E. MORENCi', J. J. O'CON.XOR, JR., 
J. FRANK OEHLHOFFE.V, %MLLLAM A. O'KEEFE, ARNOLD B. PETERSCH.MIDT, JOHN 
C. PETRONE, FRED A. REED, ERWIN E. REICHERT, DONALD W. RY,V.V, CLYDE H. SCHA.MEL, JOHN L. SH.AW, ALEX F. SIEVERS, GERARD J. SMITH, ANDREW T. SMITHBERG­ER, R,\Y.MO.VD .\f. S.VYDER, WALTER H. VAHEY, JAMES L. VALLELV. J.AMES E. VAUGHAN, RUPERT A. WENTWORTH, EARL 
C. WORTHINGTON. 

TIicsc have stated tliev will not be able to make it: CLETUR S. B.ANWORTH, ROBERT F. BARTL, MICHAEL S. CORRY, AUSTLN J. CENTLIVRE, R. C. DeLONG, REV. PAUL D. DOHERTY, C.S.C.. BRO. JOHN E. DONNELLY, C.FJC., T. WINSTON E.ASO.N, TOBE GISH, BRO. GORDIAN, C.S.C., T. P. GRADY, B. K. GROSECLOSE. FR.ANK HAGENBARTH, RICH­ARD J. HANOUSEK, W. D. HALLOR.AN, HON. MALCOLM HATFIELD. L.AWRENCE H. HEN­NESSEY, GEORGE W. JO.NES. FR.ANK L. KANE, JOHN J. McBRIDE, WALTER P. McKENNA, THO.MAS D. McMAHON, REV. RAY.MOND MASS.ART, C.S.C., REV. BEDE MITCHEL, O.S.B., THO.MAS W. O'SHAUGHNESSY, S. RUSSELL 0\'ERTO.V, A.VDREW SLEIGH, SR., WILLIAM VAHEY. 
Present indications are that we will have a big reunion, and we should. I hope cvcr^-body will make an extra efTort to be there. 
I was at Notre Dame for the funeral of P.AUL BUTLER on January- 3rd. While there I had lunch with MIKE SWYGERT. This was the first time I had seen him since his elevation to the Circuit Court of Appeals. His appointment has been well received by the Bar in the Circuit he serves, con­sisting of Indiana, Illinois and Wisconsin. His record as Judge of the District Court gives ample assurance that his opinions on the Circuit Court bench will be sound. 
After lunch with Mike in South Bend I ran into more classmates than I had seen in several years. One of these was SEYMOUR WEISBERGER, He is practicing law in South Bend and is doing ver>' wcH. He gave me neivs about another person who was at school about the same time wc were, CYPRLAN SPORL of New Orleans. Cyp has finally left the ranks of bachelorhood and has be­come a Benedict. Best wishes to him! 
Another pair of South Bend lawyers I saw were EUGENE KNOBLOCK and BEN PISER. They both attended Paul's funeral, as did practically the whole Bar of the City. 
I saw SEB.ASTI.AN BERNER on the same day. 

He is actively engaged in the insurance business 
in South Bend. 
GENE KNOBLOCK was one of our law class­

mates who participated in a reunion of a few of 
our law classmates after the Northwestern game. 
Others in attendance were Judge Swygert, LEO 
(BUTCH) HERBERT of Rock Island, and JIM 
HANR.AHAN of Frankfort, Kentucky. Jim has 
been Commonwealth .Attorney for years and I 
understand has never lost his courtly Kentucky 
personality. 
Some of the responses to tlie first notice of the coming reunion have overtones of sadness. XLAL­COLM HATFIELD writes that he contacted mul­tiple sclerosis five years ago and had to leave the Bench. His address is 2521 Lake Shore Drive, St. Joseph, -Michigan. BROTHER JOHN E. DON­NELLY, CFX, who is at St. John's Prep School at Danvers, Mass., has been a paralytic for the last four years. I am sure that both of these classmates would be glad lo hear from you. PAUL 
J. FRY died on January 22nd. We should pray for the repose of his soul. 
One further word about the rctmion. I need not enlarge upon the theme that time passes. I am sure you all realize that. The simple fact is that this June wc will again have the opportunity of spending a weekend together. Wc shoidd all he grateful for the privilege and take the oppor­tunity of exercising it. If you haven't responded to the previous appeal, we urge you to do so now. The cost is little, but the pleasure will be great. 
From the .Alumni Office: 
Word from RICRARD J. HANOUSEK is that he's moved his Braemar .Associates to the ground floor of a new building, Braemar-Lesser Towers on Sunset Blvd., Los .Angeles. No mention of his plans for June 8.10. How about it, R. J.? 
1928 
Lotus F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest Hills 75, N.Y. 

ANDREW C. KANE died over two years ago on April 30, 1958. .Andy was with our dass from 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 27 
1924 to 1926. He received his law degree from Boston University- in 1929. .Andy scr\'ed as attor­ney and senior clerk for the City of Boston. He is survived by liis A%-ife and a daughter who was graduated from Radcliffc in 1959. A Mass has been said for Andy by FATHER ANDV MUL­REANY, CLS.C, at the request of our class. 
PAUL FRY died on Januarj' 22, 1962 in DLxon, Illinois, after a long illness involving a heart con­dition. Paul was associated with the Murphy Clinic in Dixon as a pharmaceutical clicmist for 33 years. Paul is sur^-ivcd by hJs wife, two sons. Dr. Paul, Corte Modera, California, and Bill, a student at Xotre Dame, a daughter and sbc grand­children. Paul began with our class in 1924 in Freshman Hall but is classified in the Class of 1927. 
I was pleased to hear, via F. X. O'BRIEX, of DONALD J. CORBETT'S appointment as Com­missioner of the Department of Public Safety in Rochester, New York. Don, a practicing attorney for 30 years, served two terms as asscmbljinan in 1934 and 1935 from a district wlicre he was the first Democrat to be elected since 1913. He ako ran for Congress. He senrd as assistant state attorney general. Don's wife died fii'c years ago. His oldest son will take over some of Don's law practice. Another son is staff assistant with the Democratic National Committee in Wash­ington, D.C. Don's two oldest boys arc Notre Dame graduates. He has three other children in grade and high school. 
On a recent visit to Rochi-slcr, I had the pleas­ure of spending some time with DON CORBETT and his son, both of whom saw that I was trans­ported in st>*le between speaking engagements. I also saw JOE GERAGHTY who is with George 
D. B. Bonbright Company. I talked to JIM CONMEY, Vice President of Tobin Packing Co. Jim's son is at Marquette. Jim mentioned that he sees PHIL O'CONNOR at church regularly. Phil is with Eastman Kodak. KEN POW'ER is Election Commissioner in Rocliester. 
BERNIE J. BIRD, Deputy Comptroller, County of Eric, was present in Buffalo when I made a TV presentation to the new Mayor of Bufl'alo. 
My daughter is connnced now that I have a classmate in every town. She and her family witli five cliildren mo\'cd recently to Allentown, Pxu, where LEO McINT^TlE, who is in tlie real estate business, did a fine job of finding a house for them. We Wsitcd Leo and Iiis family. Leo lias two daughters at St. Joseph's College in Emmitsburg, Maryland, and a son at Notre Dame. 
RED LAHEY, who advised me of PAUL FRY'S deatli, tells me that he is about to become a proud grandfather for tlic fifteenth lime. .As far as I am aware, this is a record thus far. Let me know if I am in error. Red is in Dixon, Illinois, working for the State of Illinois Department of McntiU Health as chief phannacbt at the Dixon State Sciiool for tlie Mentally Retarded. 
JOE BREIG appeared in the People of the Month feature of The Sign magazine in January* 1962. Joe was referred to as "TIic Poor Man's Chesterton." Joe, ncv^^spaperman, widely s\-ndicated colimmist (two dozen diocesan papers) and author (eight books} has Ave children, two married and one a nun. 
TIM TOOMEY, '30, verified the report I had on ANDY KANE'S death. Tim adrised me tliat JOHN EGAN has been confined to his home for a long period as the result of surgcrv' and a fall breaking his hip. Remember John in your prayers. We were pleased to have Tim at our '28 cocktail part>* in the fall, as he is very close to our class. 
STEX'E SHERRY and \TNCE a\RNEY visited Mexico this winter. JIM CANIZARO has a son at Notre Dame and a daughter at St. Marv's. Dr. \nLLIAIkf McGEE is now located at 749 Skyline Drive, Daly City, California. 
JOE S. SULLIVAN of Cliicago has a boy in NoithuTStem Medical Scliool and another at Loyola University*, and a daughter at Fontbonne College in St. Louis. MAURICE CONLEY, who has been City Judge of the City of Fulton, N.Y., for the past twenty years, has a son ^vho graduated from N.D. in 1956 now practicing law in Syracuse. He has a married daughter and another daughter in the Convent of the Order of St. Joseph. He has a son at Mt. St. Mary's College at Emmits­burg, Md. Maurice sees JOHN DAVIS who is Haney Scliool Furniture Co. Iiad a son graduate from Notre Dame in 1957. His son-in-law, R. J. Klawiler. is teadiing at N.D. in the German Dept. TOM MAHON, TO.M TRAUGHBER and BOB FOGERTY each has a son at St. Tliomas Academy in St. Paul. 
F.-VTHER JIM McSH.ANE continues his good mtssionar>' work in the mountains of Honduras. He claims the mule-riding cliampionship of the Progreso Jesuits for 1961. Mrs. JACK LAVELLE received an award for her many ser\'ices to the 
N.D. Club of New York City at the Club Com­munion Brunei] on December 10, 1961. I had din­ner recently uith our Class President, JIM ALLAN, who is completing plans for our 35-year reunion in 1963. Jim mentioned that his son and JOE HIL­GER'S son participated as usher and best man for the wedding of ED McKEOWN'S son. Jim asked that I remind you to make plans lo attend our seventh annual '28 cocktail party next year fol­lowing the Micliigan State game on October 20, 1962 in O'Shaughnessy Hall on the campus. I saw Father MARK FITZGER.\LD, C.S.C., at tlic meetings of the Allied Economics Association in Nexv York. Father ANDY MULREANY, CS.C , wrote from St. Pius X rectory in Granger, Indiana, that BILL MURPHY and JOH.\ RICK­ORD visited him recently while they were on the wav to BILL MURPHY'S ne\v home in Edwards-bur^. Mich. GEORGE LEPPIG is with the Dade County Public Safety Department in Florida. He has two cliildren. 
I was ver\- sorrv* to hear of the death of the wife of FRANK HOLDK.AMPF on June 24. 1961 after an illness of nearly two years. Frank's father died on August 1. Frank is a consulting engineer in Milwaukee and has three grov\-n cliildren. 
I was shocked to hear of the death of Mike Langton, the only son of our classmate, JOE LiVNGTON, on Febraarv" 18 in Peoria. I realize that Mike had not been too well for years but when wc saw him at our '28 cocktail party last fall he looked so well and enjoyed being a Fresh­man at Notre Dame so much. Our heartfelt s\Tnpathy is extended to Joe and Margaret Langton and Mike's two sisters, Molly and Susan. 
From the .-Mumni Ofhcc: 
.-\t a January* father-son Communion breakfast in Philadelphia, Economist-Secretary LOU BUCK­LEY beamed his talk about "Manpower Cliallenges of the Sixties" at the youngsters, urging that those now in scliool ^'receive all the education they can get," either college or advanced vocational training, to meet increased standards of technical proHcieno*. 
Southern X'icc-Prcsident GEORGE COURY, Iiav­ing completed some philanthropic projects in his native Lebanon, turned in January- to cliaritics on the home front in Miami. To quote the Miami Herald: "Pomp and ceremony, a 40-foot aisle of red carpet with drummers and buglers .. . a plat­form in tlie ballroom, hung with a gold and red . \Tlvet canopy . . . two red velvet thrones. . . . Red cloths covered the tables and red tapers burned in gold candlesticks in keeping with the ciimson and gold decor." Tliis ^v'os the Corona­tion Ball at the Fontaineblcau, annual bcne6t for the National Children's Cardiac Hospital, "the hospital wliicli never sends a bill." Comedian Dean Murphy was emcee, and Eartha Kitt sang, but the cliairman's lady was apparently a show-stopper with her sartorial hint of Notre Dame: "George Cour>% ciiairman of the ball, escorted his beautiful brunette, Amelia, whose long sheath %\'as blue and gold brocade." 
JAMES W. SHOCKNESSY, in his annual re­port as cliainnan of the Ohio Turnpike Commis-. sion, \*oiced his dismay at an upturn in traflic ' deatlis before reporting a slight downturn (to a mere $24.6 million) in revenue. 
1929 
Larry Staudcr t Engineering Bldg. Ls Notre Dame, Indiana 

BILL NEFF, superintendent of Mandan Public Scliools, Mandan, North Dakota, has with Miss Mabel Gertrude Planer authored a history* of tlie United States titled "Freedom Under Law," pub­lished by Tile Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee 1, Wisconsin (pp. 832). TIiis text for high scliool students has already received more acclaim than their 1953 text, "World Histor>- For .V Better World" which has gone into ten printings. 
"We sensed a need for a liistor>' text on tlie theme of human rights," said Bill, **so wc wrote about world historj* with human rights as our theme. When wc wrote our American history book, we used the same theme." 
Dr. E. B- Robinson, professor of histor>' at the 
U. of North Dakota said, *'It is a worthy contri-^ bution to the textbooks for the high school course ' in American hislor>'. I like the dear writing, the many well-selected illustrations, the study aids, and the suggested readings at the end of the chapters." 
You will be seeing more in print including per­haps a picture of Bill at the State capital, Bis­marck, as he presented the first copy to Governor William L. Guy. 
When REV. THO.MAS A. STEINER, C.S.C., was laid to rest in the Communit>' Cemctcrj" in 
in the furniture business in Osivcgo, N.Y. BILL ARMIN is no\v located at O'Hare Field near CHICAGO — Father John Wakh, OS-C, director of the N.D. Foundation, checks the 
Chicago. ED QUIN*N reports that Judge BOB three-year "Challenge" phase of the University's Program for the Future, with Joe Pagliari, 
GRANT'S son is attending ^LI.T. BOB HAMIL­
Chicago Club president. More than 400 Chicago alumni participated in the fast-concluding f^)
TON'S daughter who is an I.H.M. nun is teacli­ing in Scranton, Pa. GEORGE HANEY of the 
campaign after.an.attendance rccord^kickoff-rally-in MdConnick^Hall.^ . ­
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
early Januar>-, it was only his body that departed 

p from the campus. His presence as a part of the Xoirc Dame family continues just as does that of his close friend, FATHER JOHN F. O'HARA, CS.C. Xot one of the many students taught by Father Stcincr, or for that matter registered for classes by him, will forget tins personality who protected a s>'mpathctic heart with an outward gruffncss than could rival the best. Your secretary bad the privilege of having a year of instruction in freshman mathematics from Father Steiner and of returning to the campus as a tcaclier at hii invitation, eight years after graduation. Even with­out this continuing contact with this great priest, his mcmor>' and his influence would have lived on. A visit to bis grave will be a must for many who will return for our next Class reunion . . . and 
f there will be an empty cliair at the engineer's luncheon in June, '64. 
JOE LENIHAN and wife Dolores were on the campus in Fcbruarj* as were the JOHN DOR­CANS, PAT CANNY and others for Uic weekend of parents' day at St. ^^a^>•*s College. 
FATHER LOUIS THORN-TON, CS.C , said the SL'Cond anniversary* ^fass for deceased JOE BOL/\ND in late February-. 
From the Alumni Office: 
No date or details are available, but word from Washington. D.C., reports that one-time classmate GEORGE J. AITKEN of Silver Springs, Md.. is dead. George was a specialist in teclinical assist­

^ancc to Indonesia with the State Department and other federal agencies. Apparently sur^aving are his wife and three children, including George W., who was here with the Class of '58. Pending further information, prayers and 5>'mpathy are vcr>' much in order. 
Law classmate GEORGE N. BEAMER under­went emergency' surgcr>' in March (**not serious") while waiting for senate confirmation of his nom­ination by the Kennedy administration for federal Judge in Northern Indiana. 
HARLEY L. McDEVITT of .Montclair and for­merly Passaic, N.J., is now advertising manager of National Geographic magazine. Except for 
W.W. II service as a It. cmdr., Harley has been with the magazine's ad department since 1934. Formerly Eastern manager, Jic stays in the New York office, directing activity in Wasliinglon, Chi­

hcago, Los Angeles and San Francisco. 
' SISTER NL\RY INEZ HANLEY, R.S.M., of the summer grad class, sent a description of her trip to Rome with SR. -MARY EDWARDINE O'CONNOR, '27* ^^.A. '31, with gratitude for the scrxiccs of JERRY ASHLEY, *33, and VINCE McALOON, '34. She concluded: "No wonder that we are proud to be Notre Dame alumnae and honorarj' members of the Notre Dame Club of the Eternal City." 
1930 
Dcvcrc Plunkctt O^Shaughncssy Hall Notre Danic, Indiana 

BILL SHERALAN has been appointed manager of the Kno.willc Better Business Bureau. He came to Knoxville in 1946 with radio station WNOX. A native of Louisville, Bill in recent years lias been in advertising in television and radio. Besides his degree at Notre Dame, Bill earned a law degree at the University of Louis\*iIle and was admitted to the bar in 1936. Bill's son is now a sophomore in liberal arts at Notre Dame. 
. BERNIE CONROY (sec below) reported seeing 
«HUGH GALL.AGHER frequently. He is with the Internal Revenue Bureau in Pittsburgh. This is not to say that Bernie had to sec some one in the Internal Revenue Bureau frequently, but he does sec Hugh often in a social way. He told of a call he got from CON CAREY in Eric after Con sur­veyed things out on the campus at the S>Tacuse game. He did not give me tlic gist of the 5ur\'ey. NORM BRADLEY, Bcmic said, was at a per­sonnel gathering in Pittsburgh recently. Now the director of labor and personnel relations for the ^p!Ionsolidated Natural Gas S>'stem, Norm moved to Pittsburgh from Cle\-cland about 8 years ago. 
CLEVELAND — Principals of Cleveland Club's Christmas Dance stand one out with their ladies: (l.-r.) Jane Blatt and General Co-Cbairman George Blatt; Jeanne McCoy and Co-Chaimian Tom Mclntyre; Marilyn Hammett with Publicity Chairman Al Dant; and Campus Club President Dennis Butler with date (name and phone niunbcr withheld). 
JOHNNY MORAN brought his son to school bad recent word of DR. GEORGE HEWSON, this past fall, and dropped in to risit for awhile. Nc^vark medic. Also, favorable word about DR. I don't know whether John gets good wood on BUCKY O'CONNOR. Hewson and Buck were both the ball any more, but he looked fit, and JAKE Navy med officers, George is quick to report. KLINE might still find a spot for liim. George's son who graduated from Notre Dame is 
TOM LAN*TRY u-as a campus visitor last fall, 

now studying law at Fordham. but he has become a regular visitor in recent years 
JUDGE GIL PRENDERGAST of the Supreme since his son started scliool here. He is in the Bench of Baltimore City told of an cxdting trip five-year program of combined engineering and to the Pitt game last fall, where he had an old liberal arts. Tom, Professor Frank O'Mallcy and fashioned reunion with Vange and HUGH GAL­I had a cliancc to sur\'ey the national political LAGHER, TOM KENNEALLY, his wife and picture at the "Mo Inn" one evening. The e,\­daughter, and the tadtum DICK OTOOLE of diange ^^-as ven* forthright and candid, but nobody limerick fame. Gil reported that D.AVE BARRY changed sides, as I recall it. On the same week is busy keeping the Bethlehem Steel plant goin^ end ^f^s. Plunkett and I had the chance to visit top speed and rearing a family of four sons and awith Mrs. Lantry and also CON C\REY at Eddie's step-daughter. Gil's oldest son is now a medical Restaurant. 

student. The judge and his \rife were to be out A report out of Columbus \'ia B. Conroy, said 
to Notre Dame for the Junior Class-Parents w*eek that DAN CANNON finds the real estate business 
end in late March, guests of the University and to his liking as always, and tliat Jack is still 
son Jack, a junior In liberal arts. thriWng in the floral business. They report that 
BOB HOLMES and his wife, Dorothy, had aFATHER RAY TOTTEN is not letting his golf happy trip to Key West at Christmas time to visit game run down. 

their daughter, and their first grandchild. Bob tdls 
BO RICHARDS from Kansas City mentioned about the wonderful hdp he has been getting from 
seeing DAVE REILLY often since they are of the FRAN MESSICK and PAUL FARMER on the 
same parish. He had recent letters from JIM Challenge drive. Fran Messick was general chair­
BURKE of Oklahoma City and from JACK man of the annual football banquet here and did 
WALKER of Arlington, Virginia, where Bo used a fine job. 
to live. The activities of MOON MULLINS in BUS REDGATE tells me he \%ill have t^vo soni recent months were described by Bo, and he cites next year at Boston College. That many Redgates Moon as the greatest roving ambassador Notre at one time should test the Jesuit educational polic>' Dame has in constant support of old alma mater. 
pretty severely- The CS.C had thdr hands full with £vcr>'onc in tlie class wishes Moon well in his ne^v just one around 1926-30. Bus reported that FR.ANK 
venture in sports ^\-ork. Bo reported a wonderful MfKvEE has just been made tax assessor in Bridge­\-isit wiUi JOE FITZMAURICE, '35, who is a port, and NICK L.ANESE registrar of voters. JOHN trial examiner with the Civil Aeronautics Board. 
MITCHELL, '28. is administrator of St. Vincent's Bo is still handling' claims in government service, hospital In Bridgeport. Bus told of a Memorial teadiing law two evenings a week, and looking Sportsmanship Award set up at Fairfield College after a pri\*ate law practice. In the spare time he Prep to honor TO.M MURPHY, '29, first coach at and his wife Alice guide the destinies of Dave, the school. Bus is w^ting for BOB BRANNON oldest son, now in second year law; Mar>- Suzanne, to answer tliat letter he w*rotc him back In 2935. 
in second year college at the Kansas City /\rt 
Institute; Katlilccn, freshman at U. of Kansas CHET ASH^L\N Is still keeping things humming City; and Donnie Joe, a good outside shooter on dou-n in Morristou-n, Tennessee, at his Little Chair Visitation Scliool's basketball team. Bo had one Company and at his many parish activities. He big disappointment last year: business forced him told of hearing rccmntly from JACK NOWERY in to postpone a visit with bis uncle back to their Idalto Springs, Colorado, and from TED RYAN in ancestral home in Lebanon. This trip he hopes Denver. 
to make in the near future. 
GERRY McKAY recently took permanent leave JOHN RONEY is another regular visitor to the 
from National Cash Register after 26 years, and became a franchise operator of a ^fcDonald's Carr>­campus, having a son who must be brought here Out Restaurant in West St. Paul. He told mc that mth all his gear, and tlien picked up at tlie end JOHN YELL.AND Is still with the Thorpe Realty of tlic shooting in June. Even since I gave John company of ^linneapoUs and was the top man In and GUS BONDI the $1.75 tour of the Art Galleries the Notre Dame Foundation Drive In Minneapolis. 
Iierc at last reunion, I hear they have become Their success in the Twin Cities is largdy a tribute devotees of modem art and regular habitues of all to John's thorough organizational skUl. 
the galleries showing abstract paintings. 
GEORGE O'.MALLEY is district legal officer for DICK BLOOM who is \-ice president In charge the Third Na^-al District in New York. He recently of products at Oneida, Ltd., put oa his own had a happy reunion witli JOE KELLY of Brookl>'n. personal alumni reunion at Christmas. He and Mrs. Joe has two daugliters, the eldest in her second Bloom were happy to entertain sons BOB, '54, and year at Wellcslcy. In llie same reunion were JOHN­RON, '59, and their families. Dick reported hearing NY MORAN, his wife and younger son. Johnny, from AL SHIPACASSE, JOE BUTLER, ART mentioned before here, is still regional manager of GALLAGHER, and the widows of JERRY REIDV Allstate Insurance in White Plains. George said he and ED BLATT. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 29 
TOM FROST and faniilv arc now in Watertown, 'Wisconsin, wliere he bought the ChcvToIet agenc>" last year. His son, Nick, is a pre-med at Notre Dame and another son is at St. Norbcrt's College. Tom's daughter is teaching history- at Villa Maria College in Ene, Pa. Just for tlic record Tom Frost is no letter %%Titcr, but wc have a pipeline into the Frost household in the person of Mrs. Marie Frost. 
TOM McDOUGAL has been re-clcctcd to his third Hx-year term as County Judge in Antigo, Wisconsin. Mac^s closest contact with Xotrc Dame alumni is in Merrill, Wis., where lie pla>'5 much summer golf. The Judge alwa^-s reminisces about his hashing days in tlie Dining Halls \vith TOMMY 
OWESS, my brother Iton, HAROLD STEIX­
RACHER, and others balancing those trays. 
.\ new "skyline" is going up on tlie Notre Dame campus. When most of you get back for a \isit, it will be completed. Right now wc sec it in sharp, structural steel outline. All these new buildings rising now have a definite relation to activities that will make Notre Dame greater. No description of the physical dimensions of the new library can icll ihc sior>' oi the immense place that building ^^^ll have in the work of students and faculty in year> to come. Everj-body has been working under a ••evcrc handicap in tlic old Library* built for 2200 students. After 30 years on the faculty here, this period carries more hopes and aspirations than any I have kno\\Ti in N.D. hislorv*. 
From the Alumni Office: After deadline came the shocking news thai BERNIE CONROY, the loyal New Kensington, Pa., correspondent quoted above, died early on the morning of March 13. DEVERE PLUNKETT wanted it noted here in case it missed this issue's obituaries, so that the Class might share in con­dolences to Bcmic*s family and prayers for his eternal repose. More next time. Professor Plunkett has also just received a large Eastern Seaboard dispatch from Bostonian TIM TOOMEY and will have to save its copious notes until next issue. 
Fairleigh Dickinson University's JOHN CACK­LEY sent clippings on a water plan proposed by JOSEPH A. ABBOTT, Passaic Valley water com­missioner in Paterson, N.J. Ye Secretary' opined it was the first time Joe Abbott had had anything to do with water, but Cackley had the angle: "With Joe in control of the water, and (liquor dealer) ANGELO BERTELLI ('41) and I handling the bourbon, you can understand why things arc booming in Northern New Jersey." 
FRANK X. O'NEIL, proprietor of the Rig Restaurant in Signal Hill, Calif., was the top salesman for the Long Beadi B-P.O. Elks Charit>­ball, having sold well over §2,000 worth of tickets according to the story and pictures in the Elks Chimes magazine clippings sent by Irene O'Neil. 
BERNARD D. BROEKER, Bethlehem, Pa., has added the duties of assistant vecp, legal and finan­cial, to his job as sccreian.- of Bethlehem Steel Co. 
1931 
James T. Doyle 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: 
RAYMOND FRANCIS RY.AN suffered a heart attack last fall at about the time lie was elected mayor of MassiUon, Ohio. Unable to take office formally on January I, he was reported on the road to recovery while tlie president of the city council ser\'cd as acting mayor. On January 19 Ray died unexpectedly', apparently from a new-heart attack, learing his wife Dorothea and four children, two sons and two dauglitcrs. Ray %\-on easily as - Democratic candidate for mayor on his first bid for elective office, having worked for 12 years as a supervisor for Republic Steel and for the past 13 years as proprietor of a store in Massillon. Deepest sympathy to his family. His classmates will keep Ray in their prayers. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ April-May, 1962 
1932 
James K. Collins 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 

The RT. REV. PAUL J. HALLINAN, uho lias been Bishop of Charleston since the fall of 1958, has been clex'ated to be Archbishop of the ne^v .•\rclidioccse of Atlanta. He told me while he was in Cleveland recently that the installation u-as scliedulcd for early in April in Atlanta. 
We as a Class want to add our congratulations to our Arclibishop, and \vish him even greater suc­cess in his new position. He said that he had his plans all made to attend our 30th Reunion before the announcement was made of his elevation, and that lie still had high hopes of attending. He said it would depend on his new duties ^vhetIler he could get away. He t\*as the principal speaker at the national Newman Club convention, and acted as toastmaster for the reunion dinner of his seminary class recently. Archbishop Hallinan was enthroned in Atlanta on March 29. 
CLIFF PRODEHL, general chairman, and RAY GEIGER, publicity cliainnan, have been very active in promoting the 30th Reunion as you are probably aware from the mailings you have received. Tlie special issue of the Old Fanners* Almanac was Ray's idea and his company's contribution. It was very well received by ever>'one I've heard from. (This was mentioned in the last issue's column which the Alumnus office said was not received.) 
Cliff has written the folloiving letter which is printed as received: "Dear Jim and x\Il You 32ers: 
EDWARD M. MORAN, '34 In Business Showmanship, a Famed Name 
In recent years all the big trade journals have remarked the showmanship that has made Chicago's Moran Supply Company a leading name among wholesalers of plumb­ing, heating and industrial supplies. The fact that President Edward Moran has the same Irish monicker as the world's most 
Salut! A votre sante! Prosit! Gcsundheit! (Linguistic limitations prohibit any more — but you get the \ general idea.) It seems that time is here again. Our 30th class reunion. Imagine — 30 years. Long ago in time, but it seems only yesterday. As some­one has Well said, *The years go quickly — only the days are long.' 
"At the 23th it seems that I was drafted, or is shanghaied a better word, to act as chairman for this one. You have already received a notice from the campus — your Reunion June 8-9-10, 1962. RAY GEIGER has sent you his Farmers' Almanac which assures us that the snow will be gone so mark it on your calendar NOW! 
"Locally, PAUL HOWE has agreed to help. Am muscling VINCE DONOHUE. Hope to get 'MIKE' MOORE and several of the South Benders who did such a grand job for the 20th to pitch in again, f 
"Know we can always count on HERB GIORGIO and GENE CONNELLY to lead a big contingent down from the New York area. (Be sure and bring JACK COLVILLE of the N.D. team along.) 
"Ex-roommate PAUL O'CONNELL, LEN COX­DON, TERRY DILLON and LEN DUNN should help round up the Midn'cslcm group. 
" *RODG' CUMMINGS, GENE CALHOUN and GEORGE RYAN can lead in the Coast lads (term used loosely). 
"S. O.S. for the following: JOHNNY PERONE (Come back for the 30th — wherever vou arc!) Ditto JIMMY DOUCET. TONY DIAZ, 'BUTCH' DEVAULT and LEO CLARK, Besides all of you these arc just a few personal nominations of fellows ^ I'd especially like to see again. Yon can compile " >'our own list. Better still look over the class list sent you from scliool. Drop some of them a note and try and get them to €»mc. You'll be hearing more from us anon. In the meantime, start packing your bag. S'nccrcly, Cliff." 
There you have it right from the General Chair­man. It looks like a fine Reunion coming up, and we certainly hope to sec everyone there. 
Wc were very sorry to learn that H.AROLD BOHXS.ACK died during January of this year. 
colorful press agent and the Windy City's most flambo>'ant used car dealer suggests an answer to Shakespeare's "What's in a ^ name?" 
Ed Moran has matched and mastered his namesakes in promotional stunting to augment hard work in building his million­dollar-volimie business. He became the iirsi wholesaler to: inaugurate delivery* of sup­plies by helicopter (1952); attempt a trade party on a submarine in Lake Michigan (1953); book passage to Mars to claim planetar>' distribution rights (1955); import an Irish flyweight far Chicago's CYO and Golden Gloves boxing tournaments (1958),? besides sponsoring bowling and semi-pro baseball teams. Now he's national chairman of a committee to make Ireland the 51st state. The stunts, after acres of newspaper space, were soon forgotten, but the ^varc­house he began on St. Patrick's Day, 1947, is still growing. -^~ 
A Chicago boy, product of Lloyd Elemen­tary' and Carl Schurz High, Ed worked through Notre Dame as a mailman and toiled as a salesman before 37 months in the Air Corps during World War II. He started Moran Supply on a shoestring but was operating in the black within a year without benefit of showmanship. He's a ^ member or officer of half a dozen trade ~" associations besides the Monogram Club, Chicago N.D. Club and Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus. 
In 1954 Ed married Arlene Bransley (Rosary College '45) in the Log Chapel. They have three children, Marcia, Renee and Edward Jr., and live in Elmhurst, 111., where Ed is president of the Immaculate«^ Conception School Parents Club. 
Boliny was a great fellow and a fiiu* athlete. His 

^ son, William J. Bohnsack, graduated from the University in 1959. 
SARGE RALEIGH has been elected president of the Cleveland Metal Abrasive Co.; he had been \"icc president in charge of sales of the company. 
Among recent changes of addresses: REV. JOHN 
H. WILSON, C.S.C., to St. Joseph Hall on the campus: and AL McEACHERN can now be reached at the Goetz Brcwerj' in St. Joseph. Missouri. 

See j-ou at the Reunion. In the mailbag: NEIL C. HURLEY, energetic chairman-president of Thor Power Tool, has been named chairman of the national export expansion committee by Sccretar>' of Commerce Luther Hodges. . . . The Washington Post reported that SAL BON­^ TEMPO resigned as State Department's admin­^ islrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular AfTairs for personal reasons and occupational "frus­tration" after (but not because of) the personal sniping of Rep. Francis Walter (Dcm-Pa.), who didn't like Sal's plan for restoring most security and intelligence operations to the FBI and im­migration to another department. He was reported considering an appointment as a member of the Delaw-arc River Basin Commission or retiring to private industry. . . . Lt. Col. REMI O. RENIER will finish studies at the Army Command and General Staff College, Ft. Leavenworth. Kan., in May. . . . EDWARD J. KELLV, manager of the trading dcpt. of New York's Carl Si. Loeb, Rhoadcs & Co.. has been admitted to the firm as a general ^ partner. In securities since graduation, Ed has been ^president of the New York and National Security Traders .\ssns. . . . MARTIN F. KENNEDY is now manager of Humble Oil's Washington, D.C, district olHce, having been Esso's district manager in Fairmont, W.Va., as well as a civic leader there. Martin and wife Ethel have nine cliildren, Martin Jr., Patrick, Stephanie, Peter, Mary, Thomas, John, William and Kerin. . . . JERRY CONWAY is now an account executive with Mickey Garrett ^Vssociatcs, Los Angeles, handling the Bulck account and new p.r. acliWtles, having scn'cd with Communications Affiliates, CBS-TV and other con­cerns on the Coast since 1950, when he mortd from similar activities in the Twin Cities. Jerry and the Mrs. have a daughter. He says President Garrett entered public relations through former Juggler editor JOHN NANOVIC. ^ Belated word from Ins widow indicates THOMAS '^P.AUL GALBREATH of Alexandria, Va., died in November of 1960, and there arc no details on the reported death of FRANCIS J. O'CONNOR, Little Falls, N.Y. Three nuns who received their master's degrees were also belatedly reported deceased: SISTER MARY Lr\URA FOX, O.S.F., Guardian Angel Home, Jolict. III.; SISTER MARY BENE­DICTA BOYLE, S.S.J., Villa Maria College, Erie. Pa.: and SISTER MARY MAURICE, Sacred Heart Ho-pilal. Manchester, N.H. 
1933 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. 
Gillespie & O'Connor 
342 Jfadison Ave. 
New York 17, N.Y. 

To JOE McCABE, Secretary' Emeritus, we send good wishes and sincere thanks for upwards of 15 years of devoted ser\-icc. We will depend on him for news from tlie Chicago Lake Shore cro^vd from season to season. 
Prcxy JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY writes to again remind us that our 3Gth Reunion — is almost upon ^is . He hopes that the "quiet" ones of '33 will soon 
•Awaken xvith news. John reports that TONY WIRRY is now with Railway Age; that both AUSTIN RIGNEY and MAUREY LEE — president Illinois Elks — have volunteered to help with reunion plans, and that TOM SEXTON and ED STEPHAN vbit frequently with BERT METZGER (the elder). JOE KIRINCICH was in Chicago recently for a conference of States' Attorneys — leaving the legal shop in Joliet in care of DON WISE. Father JLM DONNELLY passes through town frcqucnll}- en 
^sxoutc back to his Mission in Texas. From Glenview, Illinois, JOHNNY POYNTON and PAUL RIGALI report good health and increasing age. 
CHARLES J. BEASLEY, '38, recently became president of Metal & Themiit Corp., having served successively as assistant controller, controller, secretary and ^ice­prcsident since 1949. He came to Metal & Thermit from Lybrand, Ross Bros, and Montgomery, where he was senior auditor. A retired Marine colonel, he is a director of M & T Products of Canada Ltd., Chromium Corp. of America and an officer of International Titaniimi Corp. He lives in Hohokus, N.J., directing nine M & T chemical-metallurgical facilities from Neiv York City. 
While in Detroit recently, I had a quick Msit and lunch at the Detroit A.C. with that congenial European traveler, JACK BREEN, now V.P.. Detroit Name Plate Co. He reported that ED LEROUX was up from Tulsa recently for an opening at the Fisher Tlieatrc; JERRY ASHLEY and Jack xisited Cleveland atvhilc back for a reunion witli some old Detroitcrs; VIC SCH/\EFF­NER has moved his law office to suburban Detroit; BOB POWELL dni'dcs his time between his real estate offices in Detroit and St. Petersburg, Fia.; and that ED ACKER.MAN was now with Catholic Charities in Detroit. 
BILL LYNCH has virtually turned his dally commuting train from White Plains to New York into a traveling news bureau. He has been in touch with a host of our class members, and through him we have heard that JOHNNY BALDWIN is now athletic director and basketball coach at Bishop Kenny High Scliool in Jacksonville, Fla. With five in the family, Johnny can now field his own basket­ball team; MARTY LI.VSKEY, rounding out 25 years with Sears, has been living in the East, Greenwich, Conn., for the past few years, where his seven clilldrcn keep "hopping and Jiappy." From Marty we learned that A.MBROSE RY.AN is now in Chicago, where he operates a service business for several automobile insurance companies; that FR.\NK FALLON Is busy at the "Bar" In Grand Rapids and KITT\' GOR-M-AN is back in the Chicago area again with Chevrolet. 
JERRY ROACH — now a slim 215 lbs. — Is now with the Michigan Department of Correction. After teacliing SocioIos>" at Nazareth College for a number of years, he braved up to going back to scIiool and now has his master's In SocIoIog>' from Michigan State. He heard recently from AUSTIN SULLIVAN of Hamdcn, Conn. Jcrr>' has taken to travel as an avocation — now a frequent European visitor. LES RADDATZ and ART BEC\'AR have been \isiting each other on the Coast where Les is a TV writer in Los Angeles. 
If there is any hea\y construction going on jn 

your area, it should remind you to y\Titc to JERRY 
GREER — sales manager of the construction equip­ment division of International Har%ester at Melrose Park, Illinois. 
Interesting note came in Srom SABBY AODONI­ZIO, director of [^ysical education and recreation at Mt. Vemoa High School in Newark. He still is a member of the "charm ciFcIc" o( football officials In the New Jersey area. HANK PRENDERGAST, now in West Orange, N.J., is with the adjndicatiofi division of the Veteratu' Administration. Hank recently saw PHIL FAHERTY and HARRY GRAT­TAN. 
SI LOCHER, after many years with the FBI, is now living in Ifonticelto, Iowa, where he now practices law. 
From VINCE BURKE we learned that he was back practicing law in Pittsburgh *— after serving for several years as general counsel to the Depart­ment of Defense; LARRY SMITH is with Royal McBee; BOB FULTON has his own Metallurgical business; CHARLIE CONNELLY is an attorney with the Veterans' Administration in Philly, and he was anxious to hear from DON MARTIN. 
ERNIE GARGARO is running his construction business In Detroit — busily engaged in heavy con­struction and equipment rental field. Ernie, the proud father of eight children, still finds time to act as a director of the Detroit Golf Club — and is active in many local charities. He didn't mention his golf handicap! 
DOC DOUG GIORGIO, now ohief anesthesio­logist at St. Mary's Hospital in E^'ansville, Ind., since 1954, became a grandfather January 28th. Doc has eight children. He plans on visiting his daughter Virginia and granddaughter in Sacramento this summer. 
ED SULLIVAN, now practicing law in Amboy. III., hopes to get East soon with his wife for a nsit with BILL LYNCH, DICK MEADE and ^URTY LINSKEY. 
A long note from MIKE KOKEN — who will be rounding out 25 years soon with Tucker Freight Lines in South Bend. Mike, a recent past President of the Monogram Club, has the pleasant task of driving by tlie University en route to the office each morning. He sent us a recent news clip on RAY BRANCHEAU. Ray is a professor at X w Mexico Western College — spends some of his time on the lecture tour circuit. 
GEORGE ROHRS — past President of our Class 

— is now president of Tappan Tanker Terminal, Inc., Hastings-on-Hudson, N^.Y. His company is completing the erection of a deep-water fuel terminal that will ser\-ice all of suburban New York. For a number of years, George u-as President of Metro­politan Petroleum Corp. and a Vice Pres. of the Pittston Co. 
DICK ME.ADE moved from Belmont, Cal., to Wcstport, Conn., upon his transfer to the New York office of J. Walter Thompson. His eight ciiildren range from 21 to 9. Dick, Jr., *"!! be graduated this year from the University of Port­land — where Father LLOYD TESKE is a mem­ber of the college staff. 
ASDY BOTTI took time out from his busy Ford Agenc>- in Middletown, X.Y., to visit N.D. for the Syracuse game. He is the success story of Middle­town — in addition to his auto business, he has a Finance Company and is a Director of the local Bank. Andy hears from ART LAVERY quite regularly. Art was in touch with me just recently. He has his own lighting fixture business in Van Nu>-s, Calif., where he has lived since 1W5. He sent greetings to the gang back In New York. 
From Cincinnati — GEORGE AUG writes to tell us he is a partner In Robert A. Cllne, Inc., one of the city's larger real estate firms. Two of his bo>-s arc graduating this year from Xavicr University. 
LUCIE.V KE.MPF — a long w:ay from Stalen Island, X.Y., now the com broom tycoon of Lindsay, Oklalioma — tells us RAROLD POHL­MEYER is still In Mexico, Mo. Lucicn would like to hear from ED GAUSSELIN and JOHN GLEA­SON of Chicago and JIM ROSS from .V.Y. 
ED ECKERT, one of Northern New York's most active contractors, spends little time In Albany these da>'s. His personal plane takes him in and out of the principal cities in the East, where his firm has continuing contracts. We spent some time u*ith him last July at his summer home la Lake Placid. 
JIM MCLAUGHLIN, now trial counsel to several large insurance companies in Nei.** York, visited u-ith us at lunch recently and told us his daughter Is now a postulant at MaryknoU — and one son is at Notre Dame. Wonder if his daughter has cast any of her influence on Jim's juries. 
Fullerton, Cal., h where DOC MOREY MUL­VILL E is now practicing surgery. He has twin daughters — 12 yrs. — and remains acti\-e in Naval Rcscr\e. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 31 
JACK TRAVERS is no\^• twin exec. V.P., Retail Xfcrcliamts Assoc & Retail Merdiants Credit Bureau in Buffalo, N.Y. Avocation — visiting Jr. Colleges witli his daughter Sue — who becomes a collegian Sept., 1962. 
MARSHAL McA\^ENEY, now living in Rivxr Edge, N.J.» is still \vith the Dcpt. of Justice. He tisils with tis often, has promised some class news— soon. 
BILL LYNCH, Deputy General Manager in charge of getting out our class notes, tells us he has written to many of the bovs for ncivs— including M.\R10N BLAKE. PETE' CONNELLY, FRANK DeCLERCK, DOC BOB DOSOVAy, JOHNNY ENGLISH, LARRY SEXTON. DON WISE, CHARLIE LENAHAN and others. I am sure he will have word from these and oiliers when we next go to press—in June. 
JOHN ENGLISH, now in the Iron business in Tacoma, Washington, tells us of tJic problem of bringing up a compact family of nine. He is the Family Dean of the class. 
From Sikeston, Missouri, "T. C." TALBART informs us that he is the general manager of McMullin H>-brid Corn Sales. 
DAVE "GUY" POWERS is back in print again with his latest book—^"How To Say a Few ^Vords EfFccu^Iy." 
GENE RAU, executive V. P. of J. Rich Steers Contracting Co., is busy about the world on port de\'clopment work. 
SAM HYDE and JIM SHEA arc Westchester neighbors and spend about a fifth of each day commuting to New York. 
From the Alumni Office: 
In case it has struck you belatedly that the name, face and words above arc not those of JOSEPH McCABE, let us repeat the name and address of your new correspondent, picked by President JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY to relieve the long-suffering McCabc, at least until the 30th anniversarv' get-together next year: JOHN A. HOYT, JR., 79 Clarence Road, Scarsdalc, N.Y. Jack Hoyt is a Commerce grad with a retread at Fordham Law School and special courses at N.Y.U. and M.I.T., a member of the New '^'ork law Finn of Gillespie & O'Connor, admitted to practice in New York and 
U.S. c»urts. He's a former president of tlie Notre Dame Club of New York, wliicli named him Notre Dame Man of the Year in 1948. He's active in ^Vcstdicstcr cine, social and political organizations, recently a candidate for district attorney and the judiciar>-. Jack is married to the former Helen Foley, and they have two sons. Brian and Scan. 

A fellow New Yorker, JOHN G. JAEGER, has been appointed sales manager for the Henri Bendel line of cosmetics for tlic U.S. by the House of Fragrance, toiletries di%dsion of Genesco, Inc. John has had a redolent past in cosmetics: assistant to the executive Veep of Parfums Corday, Inc.; assistant sales manager for Rcvlon, and sales manager at Schiaparelli. A Chicagoan, he's been transplanted in Riverdalc, N.Y., for ten years. He and his wiic Gloria have two daughters and a son. 
JOHN H. McNAMARA, prindpal of South Bend's Washington High, has readied a new academic plateau. Vandals, who did about $5,000 worth of damage to his year-old plant, left a short obscene threatening note to him scribbled in chalk on a blackboard of one of the ruined classrooms. 
Tlie mails brought word of the deaths of J.-\MES 

M. LARKIN, Chicago, with no date or other information, and EDWARD G. (NED) MASON, Chippewa Falls, Wis., last November. S^-mpathy to xbtdr families and a pledge of continued remem­brance in Masses on campus. 
1934 
T, Ed^vard Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

Automatic Canteen Company's subsidiary*. Canteen Company, keeps promoting FRANK S.-VNDERA and dispatdiing him Itithcr and yon throughout the East and South, but he keeps getting himself promoted back to the home oflice in Chicago. His current title — assistant to the president. Frank's office is in the Merchandise Mart, and he now resides in La Grange. 
AL SMITH, the Indianapolis banker, is now reco\'cred from injuries suffered in the tragic acddent which took the lives of his wife and younger daughter. Al's boys are canning on the 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, ApriUMay, 1962 
family tradition, witli AI Jr. a senior at N.D., 
and Bill in the freshman dass. 
LOU VETTEL, the Ashtabula attornc>-, sends 
word that JOE CLARK, the Natrona, Pa., man of 
many talents, took himself a bride in Los Angeles 
In December. TIic happy couple were acquainted 
for some eighteen years. Tlic best to you both, Joe. 
Young CHARLEY QUINN helps keep papa's 
chest swelled out. .A 1961 N-D. grad, he won a 
three-year National Defense Graduate Fellou-ship 
and will continue at Notre Dame for his doctorate 

in education. The Quinns' dau^ter, Eileen Marie, 
has entered the Dominican order at Adrian^ Mich­

igan. Congratulations! 
Not one to be outdone, the Chicago pie tycoon, 

DAVE FROEHLICH, is the proud father of Sister 
Mar>* of St. Jude (Kathleen), of the Good Shep­
herd's in St. Louis. 
VINCE REISH.\fAN'5 son John, an N.D. Junior, 

won a $1000 short stor\> contest for undergraduates 
in Catholic colleges and universities. TIic old man 
has some prize winning stories (unpublished) him­
self, but John's award winning effort was of a more 
serious nature. 
People who have moved around (and we wish they would tdl us why) indude: BILL BECKLEY from Atlanta to Edina, Minn.; LOUIS CLARK from YorkviUe, X.Y., to Clinton, III.; ED COS­GRO\X from Albuquerque to Frecport, HI.; JOHN DONNELLY from Binghamton, N.Y., to Washing­ton, D.C.; BILL FUATLEY from Denver to Antigo, \Visc: HENRY McKEE from Rome, N.Y., to Widiita Falls, Tex.; BILL MOTSETT from Peoria to Pompano Beadi, Fla. (lucky); HARRY MUR­PHY from Ft. Wayne to Alma, Midi.; STEW OSBORN from Shrevepori, La., to Houston; and BERNIE WrrUCKI from South Bend to Lima, Ohio. Guys who complained about U. S. mail and tlien come up with current addresses arc RAY BRANCHEAU, Silver Citv, N.M.; FR.\NK POEL­KING, San Antonio; and MAX RODIN, Park Forest, III. 
From the Alumni Olhce: FRANK POELKING £ quick to supply ilie reason for his new address. He was transferred, with Eleanor, to San Antonio last summer after dosing down an office in Ogden, Utali, and repre­sents his company, Nortlirop, at Randolph Air Force Base, where the jet pilot trainees use a lot of T-38 trainers. Congratulauons to JOHN J. AfcLAUGHLIN, Cumberland Hill, R.I., appointed a Knight Com­mander of St. Gregory by Pope John XXIII in December. John is president and sccrelar\' of two 
firms, Finan Realty and McLaughlin & Moran. President of the Cumberland Chamber of Commerce, ^ he's a former president of the N.D. Club of Rhode hland. 
1935 
Franklyn Hochrcher 702 Scarlet Dr. To^vson 4, Maryland 

From the .'Mumnt Office: 
Wc devote this space tlib issue to the words of Secretary- FRANKLYN HOCHREITER about his wife, Clara Ann, who died in January. Mrs. Hoch­reiter was a psydiiatric social worker in Baltimore, executix"e director of the Mar>'land Sodety for Mentally Retarded Children and taught social work at the College of Notre Dame. Educated at D'You­\-iIle College, Fordham and Columbia, she had taught at Tulane, Buffalo and St. Louis Uni\-ersities. She had also been active in the Girl Scouts, the Red Cross and ^'arious professional sodeties. Besides Frank, she left three daughters. 
Frank acknowledged a wire from JIM ARM- ** STRONG thus: 
*'Your kind wire awaited our return from the funeral home Friday night. Believe me, I am most grateful for your having renicmbcred us at that moment and for the Masses and prayers for Clara Ann whidi you assured. 
"I have no ^vay of knowing who notified tlie University since I was planning to drop you a line about her death some time this week. You can imagine, therefore, my surprise, and if I may say so, my humility, when on Friday night I found vour ^virc along with two others from FATHER HESBURGH and FATHER O'DONNELL. , . . Apparently, from the tributes she has received in Baltimore and Marj-land, hundreds of other people held her in the same high regard. Clara Ann left a wonderful heritage to our three daughters and 0. me, and wc would do her mudi dishonor if we did * not carry on in her spirit. 
"There have been no tears in the Hochrelter house — at the wake or the funeral — not only 
WASHINGTON DAY CONVOCATION, on the 80th anniversary of the founding of the exercises by Father Sorin in 1882, was highlighted by the presentation of the 9th annual Patriotism Award of the senior class to comedian Bob Hope (center), principally for entertaining American servicemen throughout the world for the past 20 years. Earl Linehan (right), president of the Class of '62, made the presentation, and Father fj Hesbu^h, holding plaque, introduced the movie-TV star for a gag-filled acceptance speech. 
became our Faith tells us that her project on earth 
^ was completed and she has gone to bigger and more important things, but also because such an outward display %\-ou1d surely disturb the quiet dignity which was Clara Ann*s. 
" I am sending you a copy of my letter to Father Hcsburgh because, possibly, "t expresses the girls and my true feelings about Clara Ann's illness and death. She and I never discttssed the imminence of her death, and when slic went into the hospital on January* 2, she would sec no one but her secre­tary* daily for dictation at 1 p.m., and me for a brief period following. 
Her old breast cancer, which supposedly had been donnant for 3}4 years, strucic early last August. For 2 months she was treated for various things 
_^ and used a cane intermittently. Finally, in October, 
^ she went to an orthopedist who diagnosed the true difficulty, put her on crutches and sent her to the Johns Hopkins Hospital for cobalt therapy. SUc never drove her car again, nor was she off her crutches after the middle of October. Notwithstand­ing this handicap, she met all of her classes at the College of Notre Dame of Mar>-Iand, was in her ofHce daily and attended all important night meet* ings. This kind of courage and devotion to duty epitomized the personality of the woman whom I was fortunate enough to have had for a \rifc." 
And to Father Hesburgh Frank wrote: *'Your ver>' kind wire awaited me as we returned from the funeral home Friday night. 
^ ''January 10 saw the passing of a great lady. 
^ While I fcnetv this for 23 years, and the girls for some shorter period of time, I am now finding that she was held in the same regard by hundreds of other people — from the Governor of the State of ^f3^>•land to the Assistant Service Manager in our auto repair shop. Clara Ann left a wonderful heritage to our three daughters and mc, and wc would do her much dishonor if we did not carry* on in her spirit. 
**For 3 months I prayed lo Our Lady who watches over the Notre Darac family to intercede for Clara Ann's restoration to health and productive life for a few more years. Apparently, Clara Ann*5 assignment on earth was completed, and there is no bitterness because those prayers were not an­swered. Instead, w*hen I knew the week end before she died that only a miracle would keep her with 
,-^ us, I asked Our Lady to make death quick and ^suffering short. I also asked her to proride personal escort to the Tlironc of God. ''For your Mass and your continuing prayers, the giris and I arc most grateful." 
Chicagoan GEORGE DEMETRIO continues to get pluf^ for his Tynan's Restaurant and his Kemper Building cafeteria in Kay Loring's Chicago Tribune cafe coliunn. A pancg>Tlc in late February was devoted to his chef, who had brought some recipes back from Italy to supplement Tynan's predominantly .American cuisine. But George must get a little nciA'ous about continued references to him as '*a former football star of Notre Dame." 
^ Sadly, mail to JOHN M. McGRATH in New 
wYbrk City has been returned marked "Deceased —• July 19, 1955." It's shocking to know that an alumnus' death can be unreported for so long, but John's name has finally been added to the list for remembrance in Masses on tile campus. 
1936 
Joseph J. Waldron 
70 Black Rock Road 
Yardley, Pennsylvania 

From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to attorney PAT MALLOY of Tulsa, Okla., for his appointment as regional solicitor for the Interior Department, announced by Senators Monroncy and Kerr and effective in Februar>*. Pat will continue his pri%*ate law practice part time. A Democratic political leader, he will foil the Hatch Act by participating in politics only 
on days in «hich he is not acting as a federal employee. His office will include 22 other attomc>'s f^rxing various government bureaus in the South­
fvest. 
PHOTOGENIC STAIR STEPS are children of distance-running track "im­mortal" J, Gregory Rice, '39, and his wife Mary. The Rices reside in River Edge, N.J. 
JAMES H. KIRBY of Scarsdale, N.Y., director of the control divbion in the finance dept. of Ethyl Corp., entered the ad\-anced management program at Harvard Business School in mid-Fcbruary and will graduate May 18. 
St. Joseph Count>- (Ind.) deputy prosecutor THEODORE E. PREKOWITZ filed in March as a candidate for tlie Democratic nomination for prosecuting attorney. Among Ted's primary op­ponents was ROBERT J. MAHONEY, '40, another deputy prosecutor. 
1937 
Joseph P. Qninn P.O. Box 275 Lake Lenape Andovcr, New Jersey 

Standby for the Countdown — June 8-9-10 — the 25th Reunion! 
Our first report comes from Tulsa and BOBBY SIEGFRIED and his activities and travels running into the N.D. men. D.\N FINN of Baker Chemical in New Jersey met Bobby in San Francisco, and the Sec>'. can't shake a note out of Dan from here in N.J. Then he met ROY BARRON and wife and ART CRONIN during a \Tsit to Detroit. Banker JIM O'HERN of Odessa was met on a trip to the oil fields. JOHN SHAW has sold out all his enter­prises save the undertaking business and has retired to the lecturing circuit. CL^VY MURR.\Y from Williston, N.D., u*as reported ill during the summer but is now on the mend. JOHN McNULTY was reported as owning the largest Pepsi Cola plant in the Southwest and lives in Oklahoma City. 
While at the Broadmoor in Colorado Springs Bobby ran into DR. ED. WILSON and his family. Dr. Ed practices in Chicago. Bobby tics his final note in adrising that he and dad own a wholesale liquor business on the side. His family is also well spread, with his daughter in San Diego College and oldest boy Ray II, a freshman at NJ). A fine report like this makes a St'C>''s Job an easy one. 
ED HUISKING is now a neighbor at Mt. Lakes, N.J., and next door is CLARK REYNOLDS of '38. Ed's family plant was moved from Brookl)!! to Lyndhurst, N.J., proceeded to burn down and be rebuilt. On a trip to Hawaii, Ed met JACK MaAULIFFE on the Island, which is a long way from Chicago. Jack was then making plans for June '62. At the Top of the Mark, he met the banker from Dallas, WIL KIRK (this fellow is all over). GENE LING was reported back in HoII>'%vood and also sponsoring a lad at N.D. along iv-jtli ^VJI Kirk's son. Ed lias tlie first of four gals at St. Mar>''s and a young tackle lined up for N.D. in the 70's. 
25th REUNION — JUNE 8-9-10! 

Our senior class president, R. PARKER SUL­LIVAN, made Business Week in Sept. '61 and by now we expected "Spotlight" to carrv* the article. 
Parker is listed as vicc-pres, ot tnarke&tg and sales 
for General Telephone and Electromcs Corp.. who have devel<^>ed the hand free phone. Wonderful picture of Parker and not too much snow on the lop. Mobil PiAIic Relations, New York, JACK GILLESPIE sent the article in. Last call Jack didn't have much news. For you cmnmutcis Jack is at 130 East 42nd St. and he's good for coffee at least. The Sec>-. tried to get him to the Com­modore Bar, but had to settle for BILL McNALLY. While waiting for the missus on a trip brother Bill breezed through the Commodore. He is now as­sociated with Harri" Wismer and the N.Y. Titans. Bill was getting his stories all lined up for June and he has a new set of knee pads for the late hour activity and is looking for HARRY BALD* WIN. Seems as though thc>* have a score to settle since the 20th reunion. 
25th REUNIO.V — JUNE 8-9-101 

JACK "ZEKE'^ CACKLEY and family arc now all settled in N.J. and Jack is running all avtr the cast for Fairlcigh Dickinson University (it iias three campuses). The Quinns and ED HOYTS enjoyed food and drink at the Cackley household during the winter. Ed has rccci\-ed his M.B.A. from C.C.N.Y. and will teach there at the graduate school. He gave up his extra duty as V.P. of the school board m East Faterson. 
25th REUNION — JUNE 8-9-10! 

The Secy. \Tsited with VINCE McCOOLA of Harrisburg, Pa., daring a trip to the Penna. Farm Sho;*'. Vincc is a director of training for the Pa. Tax Dept. on the Sales Tax Division. Vince also knew of FRANK EG.AN'S passing. He reported that FRANKIE BARBUSH has the steak house bearing his name on Rt. 22, and one of these days Frankie \viU have to refund all the stamps I have sent him. Vincc was brought up to date on BILL MULRENNAN and JACK B.AKER, it goes way back to Freshman Hall da>*s. Another neighbor along the way was FR. JOE ENGLISH, MJW.. who ^v^itcs very well from Santiago, Chile,- and more often than a lot of the others. 
Thanks to the generosity of EDDIE REARDON, the Secy, received a colorful issue of the Kansas City Star giving the latest developments of that great area, along with postage due of $1.00. They really write a lot about that town. Thomas Mc­Gee and Sons took a full page adv. and I am cliecking tbc prices for this adv. vnth PAUL FOLEY to see that they cleared it ^ith his union. 
25th REUNION — JUNE 8-9-10! 

The Secy, had a wonderful letter to report on from JOE DRUECKER but now regrets to report that Joe died in S.B. on December 12, 1961, after fighting lung cancer for over a year. Joe thanked the class for the prayers and asked them to be continued as he u'as then over five months bc)'ond the time given him in 1960. FR. JERRY WILSON and CHUCK SWEENEY made a trip to Lourdes and pilgrimage to Rome with Joe and he was blessed with an audience with the Holy Father, and a trip to the Vatican. Upon his return to the States Joe was due for liis 10th trip to Mayo's, and treatment ^v'ith a new drug. Remember Joe in your prayers. Since reporting on JOHN LE­VICKI, who died in Cleveland, Ohio, on Feb, 13, 1961, the Secretary' received a grand note from his wife Beatrice telling of the strength and cour­age of Big John who had big *'C" for 8 months. Son John •was a junior at N.D. and returned home to carry on the Insurance Business, son Thomas is in the .Army, and son James in college at St. Joe's. In the City of Fort ^Vayne, Ind., where John coached at Central Catholic H.S., leading them to State and National Catholic titles in 1939 and 1940, his friends established a JOHN LEVICKI MEMORLAL AWARD to be presented eacli year to an outstanding high school senior in the Fort Wayne diocese. 
25th REU-NION — JUNE 8-9-10! 

Take your mailing list out and write to five felIo\\3. The guy next door, the One your shared the room with, those you used to fight over the few oysters in the ste^v on Fridays. This is the year >*ou have waited for. 
See you at the 25th on JUNE 8-9-10! 
From the Alumni Office: As a footnote on the death of HAROLD (JOE) DRUECKER, it was recalled by FATHER VHEL 
Noire Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 33 
SCHAERF, C^.C , (hat ^»-Iicn Joe was reminded 
that the real mirade of Lourdcs is the miracle of 
resignation, he rcpHrd. ''Then I already have my 
miracle." 
EDWARD R. XEAHER has been a partner in 
the Ne%v York firm of Chadboumc, Parke, Wiile­
>idc & WolfT since last July. Ed has been bus\- lining 
lip Gov. Rockefeller for Universal Kotre Dame 
Night, and he WTOIP: "God w-illing. I hope to 
attend tlic 25di rr«nion of our 1937 Class this 
June." 

The Le\icki Award storj* made Fort AVa%-nc and Cleveland papers, but somehow the word never got to the .ALUMNUS. Hcre*s a quote from the Cleveland Um\-ersc Bulletin: "Folks out in Fort Wa^Tie, Ind.. have long memories, or more prob­ably the late JOHN LEVICKI left a deep im­pression. Le\-icki, who died of cancer last Fdjru­aiy (1961), left Fort Wa>Tic 20 years ago. .. . He came to Clc\-cland and coaclied for five years at St. Ignatius High Scliool. He then went into tlie invurance business. . . . He had little connection with sports and not mucli witli Fort Wa>Tic in at Jcast 10 years. But when news of his death swept tlirough tlic Indiana city, many of his old friends and former pupils remembered. Tlicy establislicd a John Levicki Memorial .A\vard to be presented each year to an outstanding high scliool senior in the Fort Wayne dioccfc. In addition to basketball ability, tlic winnei"?. qualifications must Include scholastic standing. >piritual qualities, citizcnsliip and general cliaracter. Selections will be made by coaches, scliool principals, sports-writers and dio­cesan officials.'* 
.ARCH F. GOTT has been elected \ice-prcsident and a member of the board of directors of the Elgin Corporation, Chicago. The firm is the dis­tributing unit for Elgin Sweeper Co. and the Leacli Co. Arch came to Elgin in 1958 as sales manager after 21 years with International Har\cstcr. He and wife Ann live in Chicago and have two chil­dren, Clirislinc and Lawrence, tlie latter now a 
N.D. student. 
Army Chaplain F.ATHER FR.ANCIS L. SAMP­SOX is now a full colonel, assigned as deputy chaplain, headquarters, U.S. Continental Army Command. Father Frank helped distinguish tlic Class as a "paratrooper padre" wlio jumped in Normandy, Holland and Nortli Korea, was captured in the Bastognc Bulge, and took a dozen decora­tions for x*alor, including tlic D.S.C. and Purple Heart. He was the Iicro of two teIe\'ision docu­mentaries and autlior of the best-seller "Look Out Below." A collegiate tennis whiz, he still wins armed forces championsliips regularly. 
1938 
Bumie Bauer 1139 Western Avenue South Bend 23, Ind. 

Congratulations to WILLIA.M "T-BO.VE" MA­HONEY, recently named president of the Alumni Association. Bill is sometimes listed as a '39-cr because he took the five year law course, a pro­cedure not to be submitted too willingly by any of us who had to listen to his daily clarinet prac­ticing, or trail him around tlic track for four years. 
I took a trip to California with the local Cham­ber of Commerce (arri\-ing in a snow storm) and while staying with my sister Joan and brother-in­law FRANK O'HARA, '50, in La Habra talked with GENE VASLETT (5760 \V. Capcswoods Dr. Palos Verdes Estates, Calif.) on the phone. Gene is business ' manager of the advertising ageno' — Lockheed, Sunkist, etc, of Foote, Cone and Bcld­ins and has three daughters and a boy. He said TOM SHEILS of the old Modemaircs has a per­sonal agency, and that DR. JOHN LUNGREN (4180 Chestnut, Long Beach), who used to man­age MOIR, NOWAK, A\*UKOVITS, MEYERS and Co., aocompanied Dick Nixon during the presi­dential campaign and pleads 5th amendment on the results. JOHN BORGMAN, who finished in '39 but started with us, came over to visit me with his wife, viho turned out to be a former cute neighbor of mine, Monica Shanahan, in Good Thimder, Minnesota. Borgman, who s^l looks as hsmdsome as -H^en he trod the Commerce school's 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
Iialls, is witli the FBI in the Los Angeles area, as is FRANK 0*HARA. I tried to call HANK THEIS, JOE RUETZ and ERNIE MAURIN. who live in the area, but time ran out. On my way back I ran into FATHER HESBURGH at Chicago's O'Hare field, just returning from a confei-encc in Washington, D.C., on education in India. 
CHARLEY G\LLARAN for%vardcd several let­ters to me. One, from "Deacon" JACK ANTON, who expected to be ordained April 7tlj in Rome, said in part, "I am now a true and legal Deacon in the e>*es of Mother Churcli. I don't have to tell TOu of the thrill that %\-as mine when I reached tliis level. 
".•\s tlic ceremonies making ine a Deacon pro­gressed, I couldn't help but drift back to the N.D. campus and the origin of the 'Deacon,' and all the gu>-s who participated in it and used it in refer­ring to me. A pleasant tliouglit. Who ever \vouId Iiave tliought that some day. many years later, it would be so?" Jack was sad to hear of the death of JOE DRUECKER from cancer. Joe visited Jack along \rith CHUCK SWEENEY last spring wliile on a pilgrimage to Rome. 
Tlte other letter, from ED M^VNN, tlie pride of the Marine Platoon Leaders Class, broke 23yi years of silence on Ed's part but gave no other information tlian the sfmibrc news that his father had suffered a stroke and was hospitalized shortly after his folks had celebrated their 50tli wedding anniv-crsary. Ed, who used to defy the rest of the Marine Corps to keep in step with him, asked to be remembered "to ED CRONLV, SWXDE BAUER, LOUIS ANDERSON, CHUCK SWEENEY, CELLY BALL, et al.'* (Note to Ed, I can't find this guy Et AI on our class list. Must have been a track man whom we've lost ditto of.) 
CHRIS XL^STERSON has moved from New Jer­sey to 103 58th St., Virsinia Beach, Va. Every­body else has simply changed addresses in their same home Iowa: JOHNNY HEAD to 2 So. Jef­ferson, Dan%ilie, Ind.; TOM ELDER to 1070 Vir­ginia Ave., Columbus 12, Ohio; PETE SHEEHAN to 1842 Mt. Union, East CIc\eland, Ohio; and ED BRENNAN to 729 Birch Lane, Paw Paw, Mich. 
From the ^Vlumni Office: FRANCIS H. MAY, JR.. whose rise to top management of Johns-Man\ilIc Corp., was cliron­icled in a 1960 "Spotlight," has mo\"ed up an­other notcli to a directorship as vice-president for finance. With wife June and three children he lives in Greenwich, Conn. Tlie stor>' in a recent Chicago Trib Sunday magazine called "Basketball's Biggest Prdjlem" 
didn't refer lo DePaul Coach RAY MEYER, but to the problem of recruiting in whicli Ray usually i ends up with supposedly **sccond-rale" high school talent. Tliat he develops this talent into consis­tently first-rate teams is borne out by his home­and-home split with luckless JOHN JORDAN this past season. 
Anyone uiio missed CHARLIE CALLAHAN'S tribute lo his father in a recent Sunday Visitor sports column should run to the attic or garage and look it up. It's a tender, amusing piece that increases anyone's respect for his own parents. S>-mpathy to Charlie, who wrote: "To tlie cynical this all adds up to a bit of com. But ma\'be, in this day and age, we could do with more com and less cjTiIcism. We could also do with more gu>-s like my Dad . . . was." 
The mail has brought word that JOSEPH A. i BATTAGLIA, Orcliard Park, N.Y., Is dead (no^ date or details) and that REV, ELWOOD E. CASSEDY, founder and operator of a home for boys in Sentinel Butte, N.D., died in the fall of 1959. Regretting the delay, we send sympathy and a promise of prayers to their loved ones. 
1939 
James N. Motschall Singcr-Motschall Crp. 10090 West Chicago % Detroit 4, Michigan 

From the Alumni Office: Congratuladons to ALBERT S. PACETTA, named Commissioner of Markets for New York City by Mayor Wagner. Al went to St. John's Law School in Brooklyn, and joined the New York Bar before enlisting In the Air Corps, serving as a glider pilot in Normandy, Holland and the Battle of the Bulge, and winning a tmnkful of battle citations. Estab­lishing a law practice In 1945, he has served as Deputy Fire Commissioner since 1951, principally as a trial officer for departmental discipline. AJ^ and his wife have two children. » ROBERT L. SCALLY is now regional group insurance manager for Mutual of New York's ten-state eastern sales region and continues as manager for the Greater New York region. The Scallys have two children and live in Closter, N.J. 
REV. MICHAEL MURPHY, CS-C, '45, (ifeht) recdves a scroll from Jim Armstrong, commissioned by the Notre Dame Club o( New York to present it on the campus in Februaiy, in recognition of the year of service by the priest as Club Chaplain while pursuing graduate studies in New York. Father Murphy is now assigned to the University as an assistant professor of geology and rector of Sorin Hall. ^ 
_ WALTER J. SHORT went horn vlce-prcsidrni 
pto senior \-icc-president for finance with Allegheny Airiines, based in Washington. Walt and wife live in Arlington, Va., with three cliildren. 
1940 
James G. Brown 144 East 44th Street 
New York, N. Y. 
From tlie ^Mumni Office: 
PAUL FRANCIS HELLMUTH, Cambridge, 
Mass., senior managing partner of the Boston law 

^firm of Hale & Dorr, announced as a candidate 
"for the board of directors of the Harvard Alumni .•\ssn. Paul, celebrated as a friend and associate in the most recent memoir of DR. TOM DOOLEV, '48, took Iiis law at Harvard, has already ser\-ed as secretary* and on the executive committee of the Law Assn. 
EDWARD J. KELLY of Mt. Prospect, III.. recently joined the executive committee of Bankers Life and Casualty Co., Chicago. Ed has been with the company since 1948, a vice-president since 1953, and head of the contract administration division since 1957. 
1941 
James F. Spellman 
7 East 42nd Street 
New York 17, N. Y. 
Greetings, Fellow Publicans! Once again your scribe takes pen in hand (t>pewriter in this instance) and tries to disseminate some noteworthy data about our *41 brethren. The pickings is lean, though, as your letters to your secretary arc prac­

^tically nonexistent. Wottsa matter, didn't Father *3^3rey teach you to write in that Business English course we took? So let's loosen up awrcady.'! 
This office DID receive several Christmas cards, however. One from Mar>* Jo and GEORGE O'CONNOR is quoted, "Sorry I missed the gang at the 20th, but Lord willin*, I'll be at the 25th. I've been located in Lafayette, Ind., the past 12 years, as editor of the 'Painter and Decorator,* the clarion of the International Brotherhood of Painters and Decorators, meanwhile raising 5c\-en bambinos. None of our classmates reside in this area, but do have a sizeable N.D. Club. Enjoj­reading your well WTittcn column, so keep up the good work.'* Tlianks, George; wish about a hundred 

^ther s would send some news about themselves. 
^ nice card frt>ni BOB GR-ADY and family. Bob can be reached at 127 Vi. Stroop Road, Dayton 39, Ohio. Might be out that ""ay. Bob, if my boy matriculates at Univ. of Dayton in Sept. Last, but certainly not least, is an announcement from Carol and VERN ^VITKOWSKI re a nc«- exemption, John Gilbert, who u-as boni on October 10, 1961. Congratulations and best wishes to vou and your family, Vem. Does JOHNNY COPPINGER know about the new arri%'al? 
That is tfie extent of correspondence, classmates. Kinda limited, wot? This office would appreciate some ideas on the next Reunion, and its not too early to start. Your secretar\' will start sending out dues notices ver>* soon. Remember, 55 per year for each of the next five years; or all at once if you prefer. Tliis is the BIG one coming up, and we want to do something worthwhile at the "con­vention." AL PERRINE is collaborating with me 
Jfcj many phases of the 25lh. A questionnaire will be 
^Rnt to tlic entire class, with the fervent hope tliat many if not all will be returned with information that can be summarized and made available to all the class. Perhaps a simple dircctor>- can be pro­duced if enough reply la the questionnaire. 
 shall await your communications for the issues of the Alumnus that arc coming up; and they DO come up fast!! May 10th is my next deadline, so get >*our letters, cards, etc. in the mail to me right away. Take a few minutes away from the TV and scribble a note. I am just as busy as tlic 
%^xt person; but it is so vcr>* pleasant to be able to write a column that has plenty of material. 
JAMES F. PURCELL, '42 Public Service Co., Public Relations Veep 

When James Purccll was elected vice-president of public relations by the board of directors of Northern Indiana Public Scn*ice (Gas) Co. last fall, Dean H. Mit­chell, NIPSCO chairman and presidentj said, "The board's action is in recognition of Purccirs outstanding achievement in guiding the many phases of NIPSCO*s public relations and area deveJopment pro­gram. Mr. Purcell's professional approach to this important activity in our company is a credit to NIPSCO, the public relations profession, and to the nation's utility in­dustry." 
Jim, who j'oined NIPSCO in 1953 to organize the utility's public relations depart­ment, graduated magna cum laude from 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT O. WAY is now supervisor of the salary administration section in the salaried per­sonnel department of Ford Motor Company*s in­dustrial relations staff at the River Rouge plant. 
JOHN* W. LfVRSON is public relations director of St. John*s University in Brooklyn. N.Y. John, who also studied advertising and copj-^vriting at Columbia, was most recently with the Catholic Digest as editor of its business quarterly. The Catholic Market, also did p.r. for Alitalia airlines, Hearst magazines, American /Xirlines, .American Broadcasting and National fibcuit Companies. He, wife Lillian and two sons live in Wayne, X.J. 
ALEXIS T- CHOLIS, South Bend lau^cr, has resigned as St. Joseph County public defender after about nine years to devote full time to his pri\'ate law practice. 
At a Brookings Institute Conference for federal executives in Williamsburg, Va., recently, 1928 Secretary LOU BUCKLEY met WILLIAM J. \VELSH, a former student of his at X.D. Bill is associate director of tlie Library' of Congress administrative department in Washington, D.C. 
DR. WALTER H. HARTUNG, JR., pathologist at St. Charles Hospital, Toledo, C , is still exploring rami^cations of Iiis electroplating urine test for prcgnanc>', menstrual cj'cles, etc. Latest researcli results were published in a recent paper in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology*. 
Notre Dame in 1942. In June 1943 he re­
ceived his M.B.A. from the Harvard Gradu­
ate School of Business Administration and 
was commissioned an ensign in the United 
States Naval Reserve that same month. 
He was honorably discharged in 1946 with 
the rank of lieutenant, he joined the Mc­
Graw-Hill Publishing Company in New York 
City, and in 1947 he became public relations 
director of the American Maize Products 
Co. Five years later he entered the public 
relations consulting field as an account 
executive with Selvage and Lee. In this 
assignment a great part of his time was 
spent working with the Kohler Plumbing 
Ware Manufacturing Company at Kohler, 
Wisconsin. In September, 1953, he became 
manager of public relations for Northern 
Indiana Public Service. 
Active in a variety of business and civic organizations, Jim was chairman of the public relations committee of the American Gas Association from 1956 to 1958 and ser\'ed as a member of the business relations committee of the United States Chamber of Commerce from 1959 to 1961. He is a past president of the Serra Club of the Calumet Region and immediate past president of the Indiana Chapter of the Public Relations Society of America; a member of the Har­vard Business School Club of Chicago; and a former officer and director of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region. He was chairman of the Hammond Com­munity Chest campaign, on the board of directors of the Hammond Catholic Charities and the Lake County Crippled Children's Society. 
A native of Jordan, Montana, where his father, Robert E. Purcell, is an attorney, Jim received his grade and high school education in the public schools there. He and his wife, the former Dorothy Abel, daughter of Mrs. Joseph Abel and the late Dr. Abel of South Bend, live at 8350 Park­view Avenue, Munster, Indiana. They have seven children: Angela, Ann, Alicia, Anita, Alanna, Andrea, and Jim, Jr. The Purcells are members of St. Thomas \foro Parish in Munster. 
VMIMMn 

.^u^e/IIIIIHiTrr 
J^fllmnL rf '••*


&^um^ 9P !••• 

^ •^IT^CL L --t-9-I O 
1942 
Wnibm M. Mickey 
3333 West 47tli Place 
Chicago 32, Illinois 

Annually the Chicago Bar Association rates the ability ot the Judges sitting in the Municipal Court of Chicaso. The highest rating given this year for the 32 judges in this court 1^*3$ awarded to the HON. DANIEL J. McNA.\LAIlA. We offer our congratulations to Dan for receiving this honor. 
LARRY DONOVAN has transferred from Humble Oil's Chicago Office to Tulsa 2, Oklahoma (P.O. Box 801). His new assignment is head of the administrative section of the marketing department 
ffotre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 35 
for the central region. He and hb family of four 
bo>'s and three girls arc cnjoWng Tulsa. 
HOWARD NfcINTOSH, 186 X. Hazen Street, 
Paw Pau% Michigan, took his wife and daughter 
on an zurplanc tour to Xci«' Zealand, it'hcrc he was 
stationed during the war and made many friends 
whom he will \Tsit. The trip %rill take them to all 
of the interesting places in the Orient — Japan, 
Singapore, Bangkok, Hong Kong, etc. The entire 
trip was expected to take six ^vects. 
From the Alumni Office: Clippings continue to roll in on the FRANK £. 0'DO\\'D family of Wilmeite, UK, picked as NCWC "Catholic Family of tlie Year," but so far rlic O'Dowds haven't volunteered a gloss>* photo of their eight prize-winning kids for the ALUM­NUS, Probably a little publidty-shy by now. PAUL E. ^'E\^LLE, managing editor of the Buffalo (N.y.) Evening Xe^vs and formerly in lliat capacity with the South Bend Tribune, was on the panel of judges for the annual newspaper com­petition for the 500 members of the Inland Daily Press Assn. Paul wrote tlie report on tlie judges' selections and concluded: "Only when you see gathered in one place, as at the Inland competition, the daily newspaper output of thousands of persons do you realize the scope and impact of the daily press." 
Tliis being the last call in the .\LUMNUS for the 20tli Anniversary Reunion of the Class of '42, >-ou might be interested in 20th reunion musings of Rutgers contemporary Robert Salter, entitled "Maturity Begins at 40.'' in a recent National Obserx'cn 
•'The texture and quality of our college reunions \-ar\- with the year. The Fifth WTIS a ribrant, care­free one when we were not expected to make our mark. The Tenth was a tense, frenzied one when we were very much on the make and not certain we would make it. In comparison, our Twentieth was a mature, almost solemn, reunion. 
*• . . . Wc •*verc struck ivith the fact that we arc all 40 years old and look it. Tlie cridcnce is not only in our permanent potbellies and graying hair but, more significantly, in our settled air. For our dominant characteristic is that we recognize and accept that wc arc what wc are likely to be. Tlie configuration of our lives Is set; the pattern is fixed — and we know it... . 
"Wc have IK-ed long enough to have the per­spective time gives. Having known the depression, we appreciate the prosperity. Having fought in the war, Wc clierish the peace. Having suffered the shocks and bruises of Uring, we are thankful for Its bounties and jo^-s. 
*"Our reunions are more than a return to our college. The>* are an aJHrmation of allegiance and kinship to our generation, which is passing through this world together — and will never come this way aeain.'* 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Cresccnta, Calif. 
The Public Relations Society of America's Januar>' meeting at the Sheraton-East Hotel in New York City rc-unitcd three M3 Notre Bame classmates and an alumnus from *50. All members of the public relations trade association, tlie four N.D. men total up more than 50 years of experience in their industry. 
Pictured in this Issue are DONALD E. DEGNAN, president, Degnan Associates, Inc., 247 Park Avenue; JOHN T. DUNLAVY, manager, corporate publicity. Allied Chemical Corp.; ALLAS J. CLARK, media retations supemsor, public relations department, Schering Corp.; and Allan's colleague, RAYMOND 
F. FAGAN, *50, director of public relations for Schering Corp., Bloomfield, N.J. 
DON DEGNAN, in addition to heading a firm whidi represents such clients as Fiber Marketing, Allied Chemical, Airborne Freight Corp., and the National Association of Rose Growers, has recently oo-authorcd a new network television show whicli w u slated for dfliut on ABC-TV April 2. The show, "Window Shopping," ati across-the-board daytime 
55 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 2962 
quiz, was written by Don and Frank \Va>iie, 
producer of the popular CBS daytime-nighttime 
show, "Passi\-ord." 
H.ARRY J. McKNIGHT, JR., of .Norfolk, Va., 
represents Jefferson Standard Life Insurance in his 
community-. 
Tlie die may already be cast, but \VILLlAM M. 
CARROLL, JR., of Woodstock. 111., informed the 
ofSce a couple of months ago "that one 1943 
graduate Is attempting to obtain the Republican 
nomination to Congress" — the Congress of the 
United States, thai is, in the new Lake-McHcnrj'-
Boonc County 12th District, established when 
Illinois redistricled. The primary- was scheduled 
for April 10, and wc hope Bill got a lot of 
campaign help from Irish in the ^fcHenr>* County 
N.D. Club and from G.O.P. National Chairman BILL MILLER, '35. Retroactive good luck. Bill. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N-J. 
Christmastime brouglit a flurr\- of greetings from far-flung places and thank heavens for Christmas lo keep in touch. My wife and I appreciate every­one who remembered ixs. 
Wc enjoyed a photo of the FARRELL QUIN­LAN S and tlieir brood. Farrell is president of the New Hampshire Hotel Association and operates Indian Cave Lodge In Sunapcc. Tlic lodge is open from June 23rd to September I5th, and the wel­come mat is out for '44er5 \-acatIoning in the New England area. 
Had a fascinating report from CES.\R MUNE­CAS, who is president and general manager of IngcrsoU-Rand of Puerto Rico. Cesar w*as managing the company's operations in Cuba, from where he was superxising Ingersoll-Rand sales in Dominican Republic, Haiti and Jamaica. Business was fine until the Castro take-over, and when American imports were banned, business was "condemned to a slow death." Cesar was offered a job in the ne%v government, heading one of the Departments of the Bank of Foreign Commerce, but instead he gathered together his family and returned to the mainland, working in the New York ofHcc of Ingersoll-Rand until his recent appointment to a subsidiary com­pany in Puerto Rico. He is supcr\'ising operations also through the Caribbean and Lesser Antilles. He asks for news of KEN BROWN, JOE KEAR­NEY and other '44crs In the New York area. 
TIM HALLIGAN, '43, Flint, Midu, bowling center king (right) and AMF Pinspottcr publicist Bill Fitzharris, *48, Baldwin, L.L, met at recent All-Star Championships in Miami Beach, Fhk, rehashing the days when Tim managed the 
K. of C. lanes in Walsh Hall Sub. 
Cesar can be reached at Ingersoll-Rand de Puerto 
Rico, Inc., Ave. De Diego 483, Rio Pledras, Puerto^ 
Rico. 
WALLIE CHRISTMAN checked in with an ex­
citing commentary of life in Green Bay just before 
the N.F.L. play-off game against the Giants. Uh 
pre-game confidence w*as borne out In the result. 
Incidentally, his brother-in-law classmate PAT 
MARTIN was instrumental In flying PAUL 
HORNUNG to and from Fort Rllcy on week ends 
for games he played in Wisconsin, including the 
play-^ff. Pat pilots his own plane. Walllc is rice-
president and sales manager of Green Bay Foundry 
and Machine Works, manufacturing filtering screen­
ing madiincs. He reports that JOE NEUFELD is 
doing a great job heading the Green Bay committee 
on the current Foundation Drive. 
From HuntsvIUe, Alabama, wc heard from BILL V 
SCHEUCH, who is still with North American 
Aviation, presently assigned to Huntsvillc as diWsi'on 
representative of the Space and Information Sj-stems 
Division. He is working closely with Dr. Wcmher 
wn Braun in the dynamic Saturn program. He 
recalls baring dinner in ChIcft;;o not long ago witl) 
GENE PILAWSKI and breakfast with JIM PL.\TT 
In Chicago, and during his previous assignment in 
New York often saw MIKE MALLOY. In 1959, 
on a trip to San Francisco, he met JOE FIE* 
WEGER, who is with Afarathon Paper and lives 
in Burllngame near San Francisco. This past fall, 
"travelling Bill" was In New Orleans at a Saturn 
Bidders Conference and had time for a risit uith 
BILL JOHNSTON. BUI (Scheuch) will be in ^ 
Huntsrille for awliilc and suggests that some olV 
our successful Midwestern Alumni who journey to 
Florida for the winter (or spring or summer) drop 
in and see him (1109 Bob Wallace Avenue) as 
Huntsrille is on the "short route" to Florida. 
Good to hear from REV. A. D. LE BRETON, 
who was recently installed as pastor of Saint 
Bartholomew church, Murra>*\-ille, Illinois, with a 
mission diurch at Roodhouse. Father Le Breton Is 
still teaching at Routt High School, Jacksonrillc, 
Illinois, where JOHN MURRAY is football and 
basketball coach. Father Lc Breton was assistant 
pastor at St. Tliomas cliurch, Decatur, Illinois, 
before his present assignment. 
J.\CK McANDREWS was recently transferred to 
Detroit as assistant automotive sales manager w*ith 
Du Font's Fabrics and Finishes Department. He 
sees JACK ROUSSEfVU occasionally and se\-eratf 
earlier N.D.'crs connected with Du Font's plants. 
JACK TERRY is back again practicing law in Syracuse in the firm of Smith and Sovik, Esqs., where another classmate, BOB McAULIFFE, Is also a partner. It's a large firm with another partner fiaring a son who is a Holy Cross Foreign Missionary*, and an associate who is a Notre Dame grad. At the Notre Dame-Syracuse game, Jack had visits with "CREIGHT" MILLER and TONY EARLY. 
J. "HOBIE" MURNANE reports from Northlakc, lUinois, where he is rice-prcsldent and treasurer of the Mumane Paper Company. **Hobie*' recently moved to Glenricw, Illinois (2444 Pick Drive).. trom Oak Park. W 

"BLACK JOHN" MURPHY is now settled dowTi in Oyster Bay, New York, and is personnel manager for Chas. Pfizer &. Co., Inc. at their office in Brookl>-n. He reports hearing from BILL Mc-NA&(ARA, who is with "the Burns sleuthing outfit as manager of tlieir Cleveland operation." "Black John" chuckles, "Needless to say, he (Bill) ran into one of the lads right after his arri\-:U -— none other than JACK DOYLE. Bill's address is now W95 Hamden Road, Parma Heights, Ohio." *'Murph'* attended a "small" Christmas party at the N.Y.A.C. with the likes of "BIG JOHN DUFFY and EVEN BIGGER JOHN KEARNEY, Worid Traveler ED DOWLING, Barrister JACK KELLY, PADRE JOE GALLAGHER, SLIM BRADY, ROCKY SULLIVAN, BILL O'CONNOR, TONY EARLY and several others." Incidentally, FATHER JOE GALLAGHER, our contribution to the Paulists, is stationed at 5 Park in Boston. ^ . 
LYLE JOYCE was recently appointed "visltinp ' lecturer" in drama at Vassar after six years with St. John's teaching speech and drama. He is still close enough to New York lo catch all the latest shoH-s and had several visits with BILL TALBOT while in New York. 
DAN FOLEY, after 15 years witli International Harvester Company, accepted the position of rice-president ot Strickland Transportation Co., Inc. and is based at their general ofHcc in Dallas, Texas. JOHN M. MURRAY is with Eversharp, Inc., rising from the auditing staff through the positit#^ of acting controller and controller to, presently, 
_^ treasurer ot the company. He is at the company's 
4|^ne\\* factory and general office on the Connecticut Turnpike in Milford, Connecticut. On a recent retreat, lie met JIM XfcINERNEY, '42, \vIio reports that his brother, ANDY McINERNEY of our class, is now with Johnson & Higgins in New York City and lining in Nonvalk, Connecticut. 
Now tell mc, what's new %nih you as you read this column? Its life-blood depends upon your taking a moment or two to fill me in with latest details in order to keep the class informed. Wish ••omcone In the Chicago area would supply us with a composite report for the next issue; also, a few letters and notes from the hinterlands would be appreciated. 

.^Fro m the Alumni Office: 
* Last fall PAUL W. O'CONNELL of the Upjohn Co. in Kalamazoo wrote DR. L^\RRY BALDINGER of the College of Science, mentioning mutual Kalamazoo and pharmaceutical friends (FRANK KERSJES, '31, HERB McDADE, '49, etc.) and continuing: 
"The Company was recently host to the Second International S>'mposium on Immiinopathology, and one of the speakers was BOB NELSON. He is now at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Miami, Miami Bcacli. We had dinner together one cv'cning, and Marge and I took Iitm to his plane when he left. His successful career in medical rcscarcli has not changed him one bit from the friendly, unpretentious lad he was twenty years ago. 
^ I was surprised to learn that he Is apparently ofT 
^th c pipeline for news from school. (Since corrected. Ed.) One of the old crowd we discussed was WILL KELLOW, ^vho you may kno%\* %vas made dean at Hahnemann Medical College Philadelphia. (He was formerly assistant dean of the U. of Illinois.) Bob, Will and I came to scliool more or less together, since wc lived within 30 miles of one another in 
New York State " 
BOB (DR. ROBERT H.) NELSON ("Spot­lighted'* for his i-accinc rcscarcli in 1949) acknowl­edged a note from Dr. Baldingcr: 
"As you heard from Paul, I have been fortunate In being assigned to direct the Hughes Laboratories in Miami. The administrative load is mlninial and I still manage to spend about 80 per cent of my time in research. It is perhaps ironic tliat after my inept performance in chemistry at N.D., I have 
(^bccn engaged in research in immunochemlstry for 
^th e past 14 years. Perhaps I learned more than you and PROF. ANDY BOYLE (and I) suspected.... I have a group of ten senior men, all working in different areas of Immunology or immunochcmistr>'. These include some top men from foreign countries, who come for t^vo or three years. At the moment the Philippines, Japan and Argentina are represented. I am lucky to receive good applicants, mainly due to the scientific publicity associated with my nomination for tlie Nobel prize a few years ago 
for the spiroclicte work done at Hopkins " 
Information was delayed that JAMES PATRICK GIBBONS died vcr>* suddenly of a heart attack last November. Sympathy to Jim's sur\ivors, in­
^;luding his mother and sister. Also to Elizabeth, vvidow of PAUL Lx\LLV, and Paul's four daughters in Milford, Mass. Paul died In February-. 
1945 
Frank M. Linehan 29 Burr Drive 
Dalton, Massachusetts 
Apparently all of our classmates are busy working 

^^ n their income taxes, for we haven't heard a word 
^ro m anyone since right after the first of the year. MIKE GARRY, our Western VP, reported in with his usual Christmas message, announcing the arrival of "the sUth" Garr>', Maureen, on September 10. Mike was elected State IVardcn of the Mmncsota Knights of Columbus at their annual convention in Duluth. Keep at It Mike and you will succeed LUKE HART in New Haven. 
Kathleen Margaret arrived at Kay and REM TONER'* on November 21. This is their second daughter. ^ Your secretary and president were to have a meeting in Boston, the first week of January but 
DR. WILLIAM F. KELLOW, '44 Now Pitching in Philly, a Dizzying Dean 

A dazzling medico-academic career ad­vanced when William Kellow, M.D., re­signed his position as associate dean and associate professor of medicine at the Uni­
Jim and his family came down with the flu and wc had to postpone it. This is the second annual meeting that had to be postponed — 1961 lost out to the blizzard. 
Your secretary «"as elected chairman of the Schenectady Chapter, .'Vmcrican Society for In­dustrial Security. 
JIM CLYNES, out past prez, is quite active in the New- York Stale Democratic leadership iight. 
Tliose checking in at Christmas time were: HARRY WALTERS, RE.M TONER, MIKE GAR. RY, JIM CLYNES, JOHN POWER, JI.M RETTER, JIM DONNELLY, TO.M BERGIN, BILL LEON­ARD, BOB ECKEL, DAVE KLINE, JACK GALIOW.W, EDWARD REAG^\N, TO.M HOW­LEY, BOB SCHAFER, JI.M 0'BR!E.N, JOHN .MacCAULEY, JOH.\ L.\UGHLLV, AL GROSS and FATHER WALSH. 
We had had our letters relumed from JOHN ADA.MS, G. A. SCHU'ARTZ and I. A. S.MITH. If you know their addresses, please fon\'ard them to us. 
How about dropping us a line in '62? 

From the Alumni OfHce: According to an illustrated profile in a local paper, V-12er BILL OBERMILLER, communit>­relations rep for American Oil's Whiting (Ind.) Refinery, is *'ser\ing third year as IVhiting's city judge . . . prof, of criminal law at St. Joseph's College and medical law at St. Margaret's Hosp... voted Outstanding Young Man in Hammond area in '59 . . . director of East Chicago Boys' Club, Whiting-Robertsdale Red Cross . . . pre-xy, Indiana Conf. on Social Work . . . Whiting chairman of Ind. Petrolemn Council. . . . Bill's also board member of Lake Count^-'s Polio Chapter & Child Guidance Committee, Credit Union & Whiting Library-. .. . A grad of Notre Dame Law School, '47, Bill served in Naval Intelligence, World War II & Korea. . . ." The cartoon is inatlequately titled, **Servicc Beyond the Call of Duty." 
ARTHUR CONNORS, another V-12 grad, is now dbtribution manager for the Lincoln-Mercury div­ision of Ford Motor Co. Art joined Ford in *49, having taken an ^LB.A. at Harvard, and hju 
versity of Illinois College of Medicine, Chicago, last summer to become dean and full professor of medicine at Hahnemann Medical College of Philadelphia. 
In the new job Bill serves as dean over more than 400 medical students and a faculty of 630. He also acts as chief medical officer of the Hahnemann Hospital, located in downtown Philadelphia. His ascent was hailed by the dean and other associates at U. of I., who also remarked "the very significant loss to the University." Bill had been on the Illinois faculty since 1954, serving as assistant dean since 1955 and as associate dean since 1959. As chair­man of the committee of instruction he was active in curriculum study and revision and was also instrumental in development of plans for the projected $3.6 million medical sciences building in Chicago. 
Completing his pre-med early in the accelerated World War II program. Bill went on to the Georgetown medical school in Washington, D.C. He received his M.D. degree in 1946 and served internship and residency at District of Columbia General Hospital, plus residencies at Georgetown and the U.S. Army Medical School. In 1958 he was elected to the board of directors of the Tuberculosis Institute of Chicago and Cook County. A certified internist and pulmonary specialist on the interna] medicine and pulmonary disease boards, he is a mem­ber of six American medical societies. 
Bill and his wife Stella were married in 1951. They have five daughters: Suzanne, 9; Joanne, 8; Jennifer, 6; Mary Jeanne, 4; and Kathleen, going on 2. 
represented Ford in his native Boston since 1953. He's married. Another Harvard man (almost) is WILLIAM 
W. MOORE of MartinsviUe, N.J., vice-president for sales, Research-Cottrell, Inc. Bill started in February on the Harvard Business School's Advanced .Management Program, will finish in May. 
1946 
Peter P. Richislu 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 

To comply uith the editor's request for bre\-ity, the only information a\'ailable to mc for reporting for the Class of '46 is as follows: 
On Februar>- 10, 1962, a baby girl — Carol-Ann 

— w-as bom to Mrs. Peter Richiski. This now makes it three girls and a boy — Class of '75. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 
A recent profile in the Springfield (ifo.) News & Leader spotlighted the plea of banker JOHN A. QUINN for a bond issue as the best vray to better local parks. Quotes: "Bankers, by necessity, are a pretty conservative breed. Some of them might shudder slightly at connotations of a nickname like 'Generous John.' Banker John A. Quinn, whose natural friendliness qualifies him just as w*eU for the title 'Genial John,' just grins and bears it — "it" being the nickname inherited from an ad­vertising campaign during his yean us ^'ice-president and general manager of the Quinn Coffee Company. Now a vice-president of Southern Missouri Trust Company, the native Springfieldian uses the Quinn grin to mask a serious dedication which has just got him elected to a fourth term as park board chairman." The article ticks off several financial problems and many more acc(Hnpli$hmcnts of John's administration. In addition to his service on the park board and city council, John has been active in the Jaycces, Rotary and Chamber oC Commerce. He and ^vife Sally have two pre-teens, John G. and Suzanne. John trained in V-5 and won his Navy 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May^ 1962 37 
vviDgs before returning to X.D. He bought a plane after graduation but gave up flying vrhcn it ^vas wrecked. A former basketball and track whiz, he now contents himself with golf and shoots about a 10 handicap at Hickory Hills Country* Club. 
THOMAS E. WARD is a Republican candidate for Congress from Illinois' 9lh District (Chicago's North Side). Son of the late Chicago Trib sports editor. Arch Ward, Tom finished in journalism at Xorthwcstem and (horrors!) is a director of Chi­cago's Xorthwestcm Club. He's worked for the Trib, Associated Press, and U.S. Steel in public relations, still does the last, .\ctive in several civic projects, especially youtli organizations, journalistic and Republican groups. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bentley Lane South Bend, Indiana 
THIS IS IT! 
The last issue of the ALUMXUS before the 
reunion, that is . . . the last opportunity x-ia ihcw 
columns to lure you back for three glorious days 
in The Land of Reminiscence June 8-10. 
You have received the initial "Fractured Quackcr'' 
mailing, and we hope you have returned your 
reservation by now. If not, please do so today, 
A second class mailing is slated for .\pril, with the 
final %«Tap-up from the Alumni oflice due in May; 
the latter will ask you for a definite commitment, 
so definite plans can be laid for \*ittles, \itamins. 
and Vichy water. 
If you don't come back, it will be the best reunion you never attended. 
RA.VDO.M JOTTINGS DR. FRANK CIZON of Loyola Uni\xrsity is booked for an address in Soutli Bend March 22 at the annual Catholic Charities dinner; you'll remember lanky Frank as third baseman on J.\KE KLINE'S baseball team. Our condolences arc extended to BILL CLARK on the death of his beloved fatlicr. Earl, the day after Christmas. JACK HYNES has been promoted from captain to major at the Grand Forks AFB in North Dakota. Wc have drawn blanks in trying to trace ARNOLD CLEX'ELAND and FRANK GALLI, last known to be in Kansas City, Kans., and Jackson Heights, L. I., respectively; can anyone contribute any info on them? The peripatetic S.\M ADELO, who doesn't shoot blanks, reveals via tarjcta postal **. . . Have been .. . since early January shuttling between Las Palmas. Canary Islands, and the Spanish Sahara, where one of our fiompanies is commcndng drilling on a wildcat well. . . . Best of luck and all good things." Good night, Abdaltah, wherever you arc! 
RELIGIOUS RU.MBLINGS 

Many of you will remember an earnest young man from Winnetka who started freshman year with us in July, '44, and who now is listed in the Alumni files as FATHER TO.M McNALLY, C.S.C. Father Tom lost a few years in scrxicc, relumed for completion of his studies in 1949, then \s-orked in such United Press bureaus as Omaha and Cliica^o before responding to Tlie Lord's call. Ordained last June, he is working on his fifth year of theology on campus and helping FATHER FRANK GARTLAND, C.S.C., with the pubUcation of **The Catholic Boy." If he's on campus come June, he promises to join our remiion rabble. 
NEW ADDRESSES .. . .. . have been received for JOHN .\GNONE, ED CARLSON, GERRY COWHIG, ED CROWE, JOE DIITRICH, CLAIRE HANSEN, JOHN KELLY, 
NL\JOR JOHN R\RRY LAUCK, JOE LEAHY (''Back home again in Indiana"), CHARLES PECK, aAS REJEXT, BOB RIST, CHARLEY S.^MSON, JIM SHEA, HENRY STICKEL\UIER, TOM TRIXLER, BOB MULCAHY, R.\LPH \^ALVA, BOB BAUER, MYLES WOOD, PAT SN!ID, LEN SaARPELLI, ED POWER, JOHN MEEK, BOB ROSE, BOB MERZ, and DON K.\NE. 
CODA 
Sec you again 
June 8, 9, 10. 
From tlic Alumni Office: JACK MILES has phoned in the news that DONNELLY McDONALD, president of Fort ^Vaync (Ind.) People's Trust and perhaps the Class' most eligible (and most hard-bitten) bachelor, has finally succumbed. Tlie young lady is Miss Marj- Anne Kcenan, presumably of the Fort Wayne Keenan clan although her mother Ii\'es in Ohio, and the date for the quiet nuptials is May 5. Mary Anne has been working as a dental technician in San Francisco. 

Touring South .America, Foreign Student Advisor FATHER JOSEPH .McGRATH, C.S.C., stayed wiUi Club President JOHN G. MOELLER in Quito, Ecuador, He reported Juan is head of the Red Cross, active in the Boy Scouts, runs a dairy, has two sons and two daughters. Sctior Moeller asked to be remembered to FATHER HENRY GLUECK­ERT. Father found that DR. LUIS GALVEZ was out of the country, doing grad work in Winona, Minn. 
FR.ANK B. O'BRIEN was elected president of Sceburg Corp., Chicago, early this year, according to the Wall Street Journal. Frank was a partner in Arthur Anderson & Co., Chicago-based auditing firm. Sceburg is most famous for music systems and coin phonographs, so now tlic Class has a juke box king. 
FRANK V. GRIMALDI, partner in the Kansas 

JOHN E. COSGROVE, '48 Law, former assistant director of education for the AFL-CIO, was named by President John 
F. Kennedy as assistant director of the Office of Gi\il and Defense Mobilization. John ^-as education director of the Iowa State Federation of Labor before becoming successively assistant director of the AFL and the merged AFL-CIO. He was an attorney for the U.S. Dcpt. of Labor and lectured in labor law at Drake and Georgetown Universities. He has represented AFL-CIO on various federal boards. An Air Force Reserve captain, he lives in Silver Spring, Md., with wife Katherine, formerly of Chicago, and eight children. 
City, Mo., architectural firm of Sliaughncssy, Bower—, & Grimaldi, was recently installed as president of ^ the K.C. cliapter of the American Institute of Architects. He has been active in various offices of the A.LA. and edited the cliaptcr's magazine for four years. Frank, his wife and four children live in K.C. 
1948 
John Defant 
George A. Pflaum, 
Publisher, Inc. 
38 West Fifth Street 
Dayton 2, Ohio m 

From tlie Alumni Office: 
DAVE WARNER is the author of an article on Rocliestcr, N.Y., in the February issue of the Catholic Digest, one of the Digest's unique series of pieces on American cities. Dave, as we reported last issue, is an editorial staffer on the Rochester Democrat & Chronicle, The Warners have t^tfo children. 
Catching up ^rilh his journalism classmate, 

Gotham's JERRY HEKKER was just presented 
with a second child and first daughter by wife 
Corinne, who took time off as executive secretary* 
of the Catholic Institute of the Press. Jerry has 
been 5cr\*ing as a vice-president of the organization, 
based in the Biltmore on Madison Avenue, besides A 
his regular duties. Tlie new princess, Maria Louisa" 
(shame to shorten it to plain "Mary Lou''), 
weighed 7 lbs., 11 oz. 
JOHN B. McKEON has been elected vice-president of Denver United States National Bank, Denver, Colo., and will head the bank's planning and marketing division. With an M.B.A. in market­ing from tlie U. of Micliigan, John was formerly a \-ice-prcsidcnt of Henri, Hurst & McDonald, Inc. of Chicago, and before that he u'as with Allen & Hamilton, Chicago management consultants. The McKcons, with two cliildren, moved to Denver from Wilmette, III. 
Student Chaplain F.\THER GLENN BOARMAN devoted his Religious Bulletin on the anniversarv of DR. TOM DOOLEVs death to the account of his last fctv minutes in James Monahan's book "Before I Sleep," It contains, he wrote, "a lesson for u^^ all." The Doole\' Saga continues to grow, even though Holly^vood seems to have dropped plans (for the moment] to film his heroic stor>'. 
JOHN W. NOONAN, former Los Angeles as­sistant zone manager for Pontiac, is now assistant sales promotion manager. A Swampscott, Mass., boy, John joined General Motors in 1950 and Pontiac a year later as a service adjuster. He's been district manager. Pacific sales promotion manager, and management manager (that's what it says!) in L.A. The Noonans have four children. 
Notre Dame's international students advisor, FATHER JOSEPH McGRATH, reported OSWAL­DO ARROYO as doing well on a recent visit to Quito, Ecuador. ^ 
1949 
John Walker Wayne, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: LEONARD L. ARNOLD announces he's now engaged in the practice of civil engineering with offices in the Crest Building, Rockford, III. # A doctoral classmate, REV. JAMES J. SHEEH.AN,* C.S.C., is administering a National Science Founda­tion grant for a summer clicmistr^' program at King's College, where Father Jim is director of science. He has been on the King's faculty at Wilkes-Barre, Pa., for the last 12 years. 
H. A. Riecke & Co., Inc., investment brokers, have opened a brancli office in Scranton, Pa., with WILLIA.M M. COMERFORD as resident manager. Bill was formerly associated with Re>'nolds & Co. and Comcrford Tlieatcrs. Bill and his wife, thr,^. former Mar>' Lourdes Barrett, have four children,* William Jr., Mary Beth, Timothy, and Tcrrcnce. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May^ 1962 
^ REV. LEONARD NORBERT BAN'AS, C.S.C., Jjnf Chicago won an M.A. in classics at Princeton's Febniar>' commencements, haWns already taken an 
S.T.L. at Gregorian University in Rome. Father Banas is teaching classics to seminarians at St. Joscplis' Hall and doubling as a chaplain with the Cliristian Family Movement. 
.Appointed to the Ohio School Board recently by Governor DiSalle was FRANCIS E. GAUL, a founder of the Don Bosco Guild for wa>'ward ho\-s and an ofHdal of a Cleveland trucking firm as director of sales and operations. 
JOSEPH F. FAHEY, JR., a \icc-prcsidcnt of the National Bank and Trust Co. of Fairfield County, was selected by the Junior Chamber of Commerce as the outstanding young man of 1961 in Stamford, 

•f^Conn.
 Saturday Review editor Norman Cousins was 

•^spL'aker
 for the banquet at which Joe received the au-ard. The panel of distinguished judges had been particularly impressed by Joe's report to the Citizens Action Council on the feasibility of the Southeast Quadrant, an urban redevelopment project the study of whlcli had been assigned to a sub­committee under his chairmanship. Further pedigree: vice-chairman, disaster committee, Greenwich Red Cross; member, Stamford Flood and Erosion Con-tn»l Board, planning board; vice-chairman. United Fund. ad\'ance gifts, Indindual division; member .-Ml Stamford Club and American Mcterologlcal Society; K. of C. trustee, director Lions Chib, havings and mortgage committee, Connecticut Bank­ers Assn., etc, etc. Tlie Falic^-s have sLx children. 


^ FATHER JOSEPH McGRATH of the Graduate ^i#Sc!^ooI reported seeing TEMOSTICLES TER/VN when he u-as in Quito, Ecuador, recently. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 
47 Emerson Rd. 
Glen Rock, N. J. 

From the Alumni Oflice: From ROY E. WENDELL, a journalism grad and now public relations director for Hamilton Standard division of United Aircraft Corp., Wind­sor Locks, Conn., U.S.A., comes a delightful com­munication that the Communication Arts Dept. had ^failed to communicate in the last issue. Roy, whose "^wife and three children reside with him in Rock­ville, Conn. (R.F.D. No. 3, Faith Drive), wrote: *'It was interesting to read. In the latest Issue of the ALUMNUS, of the whereabouts of many of the journalism grads. Although I knew, for ex­ample, that JACK .McGOLDRICK (*5) Is with .American Can, It was news to discover that JOHNNY McHALE (*7) works for the FBI in Washington. "My (*3) were a bit disturbed, Iiowever, that they were not listed. Particularly my *, since we were married while I attended Notre Dame and she knew many of the bo^^s. And, although they didn't say so, I know my (3) were Inwardly hurt by ^^helr omission. ^ "My best to your • and (?)." Tlianks, Roy. Communication Arts lias been duly reprimanded. Newark (N.J.) mechanical engineer JOHN M. G.\LL[\GHER has been appointed assistant eastern regional sales manager of American Macliinc & Foundry Co.'s baker\- iiiactiine division. John formerly u-as regional manager in the .Atlantic sea­board area for J. AV. Greer Co. RICHARD F. GOR.MAX is now a Wce-prcsident of Grant Advertising, Inc., In Chicago, continuing as account exec on the consumer products division of .A. O. Smith and handling special assignments In Chicago operations. Before 1960 Dick was ad­vertising director for Admiral Corp., advertising manager for Hotpolnt's refrigeration department and a district sales manager for Studebaker. Since Dick's advent Grant has lost one account and gained ten. ^k Speaking of Studebaker, a student named Ira John Studebaker won the 1962 Re>'noIds Aluminum prize for arcliltecture students, and Rc>'nolds archi­tectural rep SMITH A. FUNK was on band for the award with department head FRANK MON­T.ANA. From ALWK H. BERENS of GIenWe%%-, 111., come the sad ncu*s that his son, Joseph Francis, died last Decciid>er 9. He was three years old and died after a 15-month illness from a rare form of cancer, occurring only In children, known as neuro­.-^lastema. Sympathy to Mark and his wife on their woss is tempered by the knowledge that they have a personal intercessor in heaven. 
CLASS OF 1943 reunion at the 1962 meeting of the American Public Relations Society in New York brought together classmates (l.-r.) Donald E. Degnan, John T. Dunlavy, Allan J. Clark, and a mascot from the Class of '50, Raymond F. Fagan. Full details on these gentlemen can be found in the Class of *43 column on these pages. 
In late Febniary the New Jerse>- Junior Chamber of Commerce presented a state-wide distinguished service award to THO\LAS JOHN AUCHTER, director of finance and treasurer of the Delaware River Port Authority, saluting "his \-aried actirities in civil organizations, health and welfare agencies, and his cJiurch.*' 
FATHER JOSEPH .McGR.ATH, assistant dean of the Grad Scliool, found JALME PINTO well on a recent \'Isit to Quito, Ecuador. 
BOB RUETZ and his wife Pierrette were last heard from In Springfield, Mo., where Bob is in charge of music in the schools, having taken his doctorate at Indiana U. 
Sj-mpathy to the widow of WILLI.AM L. SCHULTZ of Los Angeles, whose death in 1960 was just recently reported, and to the family of RUDOLPH J. CSESZKO, who died In February in Tcrrc Haute, Indiana. They have been remem­bered in Masses on the campus. 
1951 
Robert Klingenbcrgcr 
2634 Marcy Lane 
Ft. >Vayne, Indiana 

Received a note from TOM MULLEN and his wife, Julie (Gulph Road and Merlon Avenue; Br>n Mawr, Pa.) that on October 23, 1961, Paul Laurence arrived — their first child. Congratula­tions, Tom. 
Saw GEORGE L.AUGHLIN In Fort Wayne fol­lowing the Northwestern game and he Is living in Cincinnati, Ohio and Is marketing manager. Glass Products Dept., with the Kroger Company. 
On November 17 TED O'MALLEY'S mother died and I'm sure all of his friends and classmates will remember her In their prayers. 
PHIL CAN'TWELL (Business address: Bishop Amat H.S., 14301 Fairgrove Ave., La Puente, Calif.) writes that his family has now grown to four girls and tliree boys, and due to the seventh arrival he was unable to make the reunion. He is athletic director of Bishop Amat H.S. and is working on developing some future N.D. material. 
NELSON LOWE (19 Owen Ave., Glens Falls, N.Y.) is with the First National Bank at Glens Falls and is a trust officer. Nelson married Eleda Washburn and has two girls. 
ED CECH, who is on the ^(odem Laguagcs faculty at Notre Dame, wrote that during the summer he spent some time with ALFREDO PIC­CINI, '52, and his family and he is practicing law- in Pcrrine, Fla. Also, he had lunch with REV. CHARLES O'BRIEN, C.S.C., who is working on a Fh.D. In history at Columbia University. This last summer BOB THOMPSON received his masters in Math and he is now teaching at Robblnsflale Senior H.S. in Robblnsdale, Minnesota. ^VhDc Ed was home In Nebraska, he saw and spent time with JERRY MORRIS, '52, a counsellor at Bo/s Town, FATHER DAMIEN (JOE PARKER, '52) and FATHER B.ASIL (VERNON BURKHART, '51). 
Received Christmas cards from the following: (Some with news, some with pictures, and some without addresses). 
BUDDY POWERS, Lynn and Hvo girk. Buddy Is now vice-president for development at Mercy College, Detroit, Michigan. His address: Meiicy College. 8200 W. Outer Dr., Detroit 19, ificilgan. AL GUARNIERI, Ann, one girl and three boys. BILL COONEY (assistant U.S. attorney, San Francisco, Calif.), Is In charge of income tax \iolatIons in Northern California, and still single. 
NLATTY O'DONNELL, (captain with J, A. Sec­tion, Hqs. VII Corps, APO 107, New York, N.Y.) his Avife, two girls and firet son bom Nm-ember 30, 1961. Matty is still In Germany but hopes to return home next summer. ED McCARTHY, *50, his wife and four children (5917 Rickey Dr., Mel­airic. La.) Last February he joined the staff of the Louisiana Land and Exploration Corp.) PAT BARRETT, his wife Joan and son and daughter (4610 Bruce Ave., Minneapolis 24, Minn.). 
BOB GORDON, '52, wife, two daughters and a son 2713 Broadontec, Billings, Mont.). CHUCK LUECKE, his wife AIarg%', two sons and two daughters. (108 N. Harlem, Frceport, Illinois). H.ANK MADDEN, his wife Sally, two daughters and one son. (.Almor Dr., ^fcCandless Twp., Pitts­burgh 37, Pa.). Hank left the Lookout Mountain area of Tennessee, and is now Superintendent of Production Engineering of the Allls-Chalmers Pitts­burgh plant. 
BILL CAREY, Helen, the tuo bo>-s and daugh­ter. PAT O'SULLIVAN and Maureen. GEORGE LARSON, Rosemary, their four boys and three girls. (2436 Clarendon Ave., Louisville 5, Ken­tucky.) 
ILVRVEY O'NEILL, Nancy, the two boys and two giris; BOB EDMUNDSON, Mary, one son and one daughter. (65 E. 90 St., New York 28, N.Y.) DICK MacDONALD, Joey, one girl and four boys. (1005 Highland, Lafayette, Ind.); JOHN MOORE, Pat and son; HARRY HANIG.AN, Marie and the children; BUD HERR, Barbara and the children (Box H, Chatsworth, 111.); KEN THOREN, Pat, two daughters and one son; JIM PRICK, Bonny, the three boys and two girls; RAY MILLER, his wife and five children; JACK YOUNG, Maryann and their four girls (3846 Myrtle St., Eric, Pa.); STEVE ^LARTIN and Kathleen (1056 A. Gr«n­wich, San Frandsco 11, Calif.); and TOM CAR* ROLL, Jane, their Wio boys and one ^rl, (17 Carlton Rd., Hutchison, Kansas). In a note about the year's activity, a son bom in March is the high spot and no visitors Was the low point. -That's an invitation. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Big news on WILLIAM L. KIRCHNER, JR., via clippings from every pi^ier in New Jczsey. Bill, assistant counsel to the Prudential Insurance Co., 
Noire Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 39 
was named pcisonal counsel to Jersey Governor Hughes in February. One paper wrote: "Since no man who stands six-foot-six and weighs 255 pounds can be overlooked, it would be inaccurate to describe William L. Kirchncr as an tmknown." But Bill's appointment came out of the blue. Never an organization politico, BUI was completely flab­bergasted by the appointment. His wife Isabclle (Billic) is a lawyer too and a member of tlic Pru­dential legal department. Former president of the 
N.D. Club of New Jersey-, Bill has two diildren, Bill and Joan, by his former wife, who died in 1956, and a son, Jolm, bom of his marriage to Billie. 
Another Jersej-ite, JOHN R. MULLEN, w^ the recipient of a Distinguished Service .\«-ard from the state's Javcecs at a dinner in late Februarv-. Hfa citation read: "Assistant legal counsel for one of New Jeisej-'s largest corporations and diairman of the Communilv Development Committee of the Greater Edison Jaycees. Due largely to his efforts, the committee has succeeded in obtainmg the necessarv legislation permitting the Township o[ Edison to purdiase property of the Rantan Arsenal and develop it for industrial use, providing nevv jobs for many who may be unemployed because of the closing of tlie arsenal." 
An erstwhile classmate, THONHS J. BREN­NAN, is in cvecutive training with the U.S. .^rmy Transporution Terminal Command in BrooU>-n, 
N.Y. And a Ph.D. classmate, C.-VRLTON A. SEARS has become commercial development man­ager fo'r Virginia Chemicals & Smelting Co. West Norfolk, Va. He had previously been with Ameri­can Cyanamid. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade Bldg. ^Vheeling, W. Va. 

R. EMMETT a\TER, 124 West Summit Ave, San Antonio 12, Texas, graduated from St. Mary's University School of Law, 1961, presently .Assistant Criminal District Attorney in San .Antonio. Fallier of two girb, Lisa, age 9, and Vanessa, age 8. Would like to hear from CH.ARLES L. D.ASCHLE. PHILIP HOMER ANDERSON, BS '52 MA '57, presently resides at 150 Bloomlield .Ave.. Verona, Nov Jerse>-. You may find JOSEPH P.AUL BROWN, AB '52, at 1523 South Filth St., El Centro, Calif. WILLIAM ROBERT CAREY has moved to VAH 123 N.\S Whidbey Lland, Oak Harbor, Washington. 
JAMES JOSEPH HARANZO lists 86 Courtland Ave, Mil-Acres, \\'heeling. West Virginia as his new residence. RONALD RALPH GALIONE presently resides at 94 Main St., ROS1>TI, N.Y. Miss MARGARET McCLEAR, MA '52, is pres­ently residing at Rogers Hall, St. Louis University, 3601 Lindcll, St. Louis, Mo.; PAUL LE.VOX RILEV LOHR'S nevv address is 1610 Ridgcvicw-Ave., Lancaster, Pa. JOHN RICHARD MOH.AR lisu 4752 N. Idlovlld Ave., Milu-aukcc 17, Wise as home. EDWARD SARSFIELD W.ATERS has traveled to and resides at 25244 Malibu Road, MaJibu, Calif. Another man Calif, bound, PHILIP WALTER EVERIST at 1509 172nd .Ave., Hay­ward, Calif. 
REV. THOMAS McCAFFREY KIRBY is pres­ently stationed at St. Theresa Rector>% St. Terest Court, Munhall, Pa. PETER JOHN DON.AHUE presently resides at 207fi Ridgcw:ay Drive, Dayton 40, Ohio. (Honorable) CHARLES M.ALIK pres­ently lists Han-ard Club, 27 W. 44th St., New-York 36, N.Y., as his address. 
All the following arc changes of address: ANTHONY LA>VRENCE ALEXANDER, JR., 26t S. Holmes, Memphis 11, Tenn. EDWARD JOSEPH PFAFF, 2679 Lakeview Road, Rocky River, Ohio. JAMES GILBERT SCHERER, 427 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
JAMES F. FITZGERALD, '47 
Inn-deed Oil's Well That Blends WeU 

Last .August Jim Fitzgerald, president of Fitzgerald & Weber Oil Co., launched another of his several enterprises with part ownership and vice-presidency of a new Holiday Inn in his native Janesvillc, Wis­consin. 
E. High Point Rd., Peoria, 111. RICH.ARD AlAN SHERIDAN, 710 P'Tue St., Apt. 1133, Atlanta 8, Ga. DAVID CHARLES WILMOT, 206 E. 12th St., Davenport, Iowa. ROBERT JOSEPH RAY­MOND, 403 Laurie Lane, Santa Paula, CaliL PHILIP WALKER EVERIST, USS Ranger (CVA 
61) FPO San Francisco, Calif. EDMUND SHERI­D.AN WEHRLE, 336 Evermann Apt., Bloomington, Ind. THO.M.AS FRA.VCIS WALDRON, C.S.C., 3800 So. Gunderson, Berv\-\*n, Illinois. 
CAPT. MALH.A.M M. WAKIN, Quarters No. &410E, .Air Force Academv, Colorado Springs, Colo. EDMUND SYLVESTER PERT, 1831 E. Highland, Phoenix 6, Arizona. EARL J.A.MES MOCK, JR., 306 S. Notre Dame Ave., South Bend, Ind. ARTHUR LEO MARTIN, II, 35-43 —63rd St., Woodsidc 77, N.Y. THOMAS CHARLES GRIF­FITH, 1820 Dawn .Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. LLOYD 
J. FORRESTAL, 24 Arnold Lane, Rowayton, Conn. ROBERT ALOYSIUS CHRIST, 726 Peasliing Blvd., East St. Louis, III. EDMUND SIMON CAMERON, Gibson Citv, 111. 
JAMES RICHARD DONNELLY, 102 Brewer Drive, Battle Creek, Michigan. PAUL JAMES FATUM, 1032 Undenvood S.E., Grand Rapids 6, Mich. JAMES JOSEPH EBZERY, 34 Amherst Rd., Riverside, Conn. ERNEST JOSEPH FRANZ­GROTE, 124 S. San Marino, San Gabriel, CaliL DONALD PETER FINTi.', 1707 W. lOOth St., Chicago 43, 111. DR. ROBERT LEONARD TIPS, Director of the Genetics Dirision, Oregon Private Research Center, P.O. Box 366, Beavenon, Oregon. KEITH RICHARD KLEIN, 19 No. Duchesne Drive, Florissant, Mo. GEORGE L. FAILEY, JR., 101 Main St., Port Allegheny, Penn. JOHN -MI­CHAEL FURIN, 6721 Rushleigh Road, Clayton, Ohio. WILLIAM JOS. CORBEIT, III, Lt. USN, 531 Marina, Coronada, Calif. PAUL EUGENE BURNS, 171 Chappaqua Rd., Briardiff, N.Y. LEO JOHN DONDANVILLE. JR., 2319 Old Chatham Rd., Springfield, 111. ROBERT RAY­MOND JAY, R.F.D. No. 1, Suncook, N.H. JOHN MICHAEL FURIN, 425 Girard Drive, Berea, Ohio. EARL LEO BE.AUCHAMP, 2217 Briar Lane, Flint, Mich. JOHN PATRICK DELANEY, 500 Harvard S.E., Minneapolis 14, Minn. DANIEL 
Jim has now mixed oil with at least threeg other fields of endeavor: real estate (presi-" dent of the Sunnyside Shopping Center, secretar>'-treasurer of the Creston Park Shop­ping Center), motels (vice-president of Interstate Inns), and banking (board of directors of the new Bank of Janesville). Recently he was named president of the Wisconsin Petroleum .Association. 
His N.D. degree in business administration augmented by Nas-y V-12 training at Bald­win-Wallace College, Jim started Fitzgerald & Weber Oil with a partner in 1948, taking over the Shell Oil bulk plant and distribu-^ torship for the area. Increasing business interests brought even faster increasing civic responsibilities. He was elected chairman of the Rock County Petroleum Industries Com­mittee in 1956 and disaster co-chairman in 1958 of the county chapter of the .American Red Cross. A director of the Janesville Chamber of Commerce for three years, he is chairman of the chamber's industrial development committee and ser\'ed on a panel for the U.S. Chamber's congressional issue clinic in Milwaukee in 1958. Member-­ships include the Kiwanis, Elks and Madison" Clubs and the Janesville Countrj- Club. He returned to the Na\y as a supply officer in 1952-53. 
Jim's wife is the former Marilyn Cullen, also of Janesville, daughter of Mark Cullen, '18. They have five children: Michael, lO; Marcia, 8; Brian, 7; Jimmy, 5; and Carolyn, 
2. Besides his family, Jim's interests include golf, travel and Notre Dame, which he firmly believes should remain a source of practical, purposeful intellectuals rather than the "ivory tower" variety. 
C. FLANAG.AN, 4808 S. AnUiony, Fort Waj-ne, Ind. 
JOS. J. FREDLANI, 5890 Fenton Court, Green-dale, Wise JAMES DO.MINIC HAGGERTY, 10623 S. Fairfield .Ave., Chicago 55, 111. DR. GER ARD JOS. KELLY, 3369 South 108tli St., Omaha, Nebr. RICHARD GR.ANT LANCASTER, 825 Lincoln Way East, Mishau-aka, Ind. RALPH VIN­CEN'T MYERS, 821 Forest Ave., South Bend 16, Ind. PATRICK GROUT<EY NEVILLE, 64 Hun­tington .Ave., Buffalo 14. N.Y. SR. .M. .MUS­KALA BEDE, O.S.F., 6832 Convent Blvd., Syl­i-ania, Ohio. ^ 
JOS. RICHARD HE.MPFLI.VG, 1536 Fenton*^ Indianapolis, Ind. CHEATHAM E. HODGES, JR., 380 Lake Shore Dr., Clermont, Florida. MATHIAS ANTHONY KERGER, 7311 Hohman. Hammond, Ind. GEO. RUSSELL .McGUAN, 1527 River Dr., Hammond, Ind. FR.ATER DAMI.AN PARKER, O.S.B., Mt. Midiael Monastery, Elkhorn, Nebr. ROBERT .ANTHONY SCHAMPIER, 150-24 26th St., Flushing, L.I., N.Y. RICHARD HENRY VOLL.MER, 7125 Darnell Lane, Grecndale, Wise CONRAD LEWIS ARNOLD, 6844 S.W. 62nd Place, Portland 19, Oregon. 
REV. WILLIA.M FRANCIS XAVIER GRIFFIN, C.S.C., 65 E. Main St., Bogota, N.J. JAMES W1LLIA.M PATTERSON, 129 Second St., Butler, Pa. JAMES BESTON POU'ERS, 733 Tliird Ave., New York 17, N.Y. DONALD BRUCK PIERSON, 300 E. 71st St., New York 21, N.Y. D.ANIEL EDWARD HARRINGTON, 33-15 161st St., Flush­ing 58, N.Y. JAAIES PATRICK -MANNING, 10 # Brook Ave., Passaic, N.J. WILLIAM VINCENT* RYAN, 1657 Waveriy Way, Baltimore 12, Md. GERALD ROLAND FITZGERALD, BS '52 MS '61, 5806 No. 77th St., Milwaukee 18, Wise ROBERT KILIAN GORDON, JR., 2713 Broadwater Ave., Billings, Montana. BERNARD FRANCIS Mc-SALLY, 726 East St., Dedham, Mass. HAROLD EUGENE WHITING, 54509 Moss Rd., South Bend, Ind. 
BERNARD DE PRIMO, 16525 Stalidin, Detroit 19, Mich. FRANCIS WARREN GRUESEN, 777^ Madison, River Forest, III. CLIFFORD EUGENX' HOENIE, 822 Wagon \Vheel Dr., Dayton, Ohio. 
DR. WILLIAJf ALOYSIUS CHERVENAK, 4017 
tQucntin, Minneapolis 16, Minn. ANDREW JAMES KAYE, 226 Willow St., Pl>Tnoutli, Pa. LT. JOHN EDWARD KELLY, JR., (.MC) USNR, Philadelphia Na»-al Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa. FRANK JO­SEPH HAENDLER, American Embassy, Box lOO .APO 90, New York, N.Y. LOUIS BENJAUnN GARIPPO, 1626 N. Nashville Ave., Chicago 35, 111. DR. RICHARD RAYMOND GACEK, 291 Linden St., Wcllcslcy Hills 81, Mass. REV. CHARLES THOMAS FAHY, St. Anselm's Prior, Washington 17, D.C. JOHN RAYMOND COURTNEY, 2 Dartmoor Dr., Shrorabun-, Mass. RICHARD PAUL CODY, 1402 N. Dearborn, Chicago, 111. JAMES KENNETH HA.MEL, QI3-901 Cedar Ave., Vallejo, Calif. 
<^ JOHN FRANCIS FITZGERALD, 26 Wllow St., 
J#Sprinslicld, .Mass. JAMES FRANCIS JACOBS, 910054 Phyllis Ave., West Holljuood 46, Calif. JOHN LAWRENCE DAW, A.I.A. Arcliitcct, 7930 Canterburj-, Prairie Village 15, Kansas City, Kansas. FRED JOSEPH HARTM.\NN, JR., 5309 Rosslyn .-\vc., Indianapolis, Ind. 
GEORGE FRANCIS HEIMEL, 1193 Calnn Ave., St. Paul 18, Minn. HOWARD JOSEPH PHILLIPS, 608 Emmet Street, Rensselaer, Ind. JAMES KENT STIER, 2353 Harr>ivood, Cincinnati 39, Ohio. THO.MAS ROBERT PHILLIPS, 1612 Lindley Ave., Philadelphia 41, Pa. WILLIA.M FR,4NC1S UTHTE, 383 Main St., Glen Ellyn, III. EDWARD JOHN .ALTHERR, JR., c/o VS 837, U.S. Naral Air Station, Brooklyn 34, N.Y. THOMAS BRENNOCK 
~D.\Y , 10600 Pinesdale Dr., Silver Spring, Md. 
: # DR. JOS. H. EUSTER.\fA.V, National .Xaral Medical Center, Bethesda, Md. ROBERT ANTON FEILER, 1002 East St. (1002), Germain, St. Cloud, Minn. JOHN DUANE LEONARD, c/o Bank of .America, Tulelake, Calif. THOMAS JOSEPH Mc-KIMMEY, 8721 W. OI>-mp!c Blvd.. Los Angeles 33, Calif. JOS. PATRICK O'DONNELL, 177 Lex­ington, Billings, Mont. DONALD J. STRASSER, 15 W. 563 Han-ard St., Elmhurst, III. RICHARD BRAUN SULLIVAN, 2309 Edu-ards St., Mar>sville, Calif. DR. HARRY LEROY SIE.MONSMA, 245 
X. Glassell, Orange, Calif. ROBERT GEORGE WURSTNER, 520 Jeanctte Dr., Richmond Hts. 
21. Ohio. FRANCIS GRIFFIN RO.VNENBERG, 92 Stafford Rd.. Baied' Urfc, Montreal P.Q., Canada. ROBERT JA.MES PIHA, 5533 S. Kildare, Chicago 29, III. SANDY ANTHONY PERRY, 1312 
^McKinley Ave., Chicago Heights, III. 
^ FREDERICK MILLER BRANSFIELD, 30 X. LaSalle, Room 807, Chicago, 111. REV. PHILIP ALPHONSUS HIGGINS, CS.C.,- 773 Madison Ave., Albany 8, X.Y. NE,\L JOHN MURPHY, 1023 Marviciv, Los Angeles, Calif. GER;\LD LEE NOWAK, 1056 U.S. 23 X., .Alpena, -Mich. GEO. EDWARD OTOTT, 216 Boxwood, Oceanside, Calif. LAWRENCE STANLEY PESHEK, 6108 .\. Meade Ave, Chicago 46, III. (CI. '52 P.R.) JOHN GEORGE JOSEPH ROY, missing, last readied in Grvren Bav, IVis. ED. ROBT. TASKO, 42 Dog­wood Rd., Wethersfield, Conn. JOH.\ FRANCIS SWEENEY, 920 —30lh St., West Dcs Moines, Iowa. 
•0 JOS. RICHARD PEBOZZI, 1310 Scott Ave., Chicago Heights, III. RICHARD .MARTLV HID­DING, 5109 St. Germain Blvd., Oriando, Fla. EDWARD JOHN ALTHERR, JR., 461 Xo. Ivy­hurst, .Apt. I, BufTalo 26, N.Y. ANTHONY -MUR­PHY CRFFELLI, 2916 Sdiool, Des Moines 11. Io\%-a. DEAN DUNSTAN DRISCOLL, 29 Bcedi St., -Xculjurgh, N.Y. WALTER GRIFFEN PUR­CELL, 321 Wakewa, South Bend, Ind. 
BE SURE TO ^L^KE ARRiVXGEMEXTS WITH WALTER PURCELL FOR THE FORTIICOMIXG CLASS REUNION IN JUNE. SO TH.\T EVERY­OXE CAN .\TTE.VD. LOOKING FORW.ARD TO SEEING YOU THEN. 
I'd enjoy hearing from you just as much as others enjoy hearing about you, so keep passing the word along. No strain to it: postcard, dollar bills, anything you can write on will do. 
Counting on enough material for the next issue 

•^to keep you better informed, 1 remain HARRY ^ . BUCH. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: WALLY PURCELL suggests that some of the information from HARRV BUCH above may be a little dated, since he's sure that ED WATERS is already a successful Holl>-wood writer. RICHARD A. DcGRAFF has also checked in witli ne\n of a new degree, new job and new daughter, informa­tion which Harr^' apparently hasn't processed yet. .^Dick has his Ph.D. from Indiana Univexsity and ^^^as gone to work as assistant to the president of Tri-State College, Angola, Ind., an engineering 
school where Dick handles all the development work. The DcGrafTs' ne^v daughter is Mary Jeanine. 
RAYMOND A. SLYMAN is now manager »C Mutual of New York's agency office in Davenport, Iowa, after managerial training at the home ofiice in New York City last fall. The Sl>'mans have four children. RALPH M. RICHARD has returned to the civil engineering department at N.D. as an assistant professor, having received his Ph.D. in that subject at Purdue University in 1961. Ralph was also married last November 18 to Angela Rudolphi. BROTHER CHARLES J. CUMMIS­KEY, S.M., in grad school with the Class and now-teaching at St. Afarj-'s University, has a $16,000 chemistry* grant from the Welch Foundation, Hous­ton, Tex. 
1953 
David A. McElvain 2328 Alexander Terr. Homewood, Illinois 

Received a Christmas card from DON CARBONE, ser\-ing in the Office of Emergency- Planning in Washington, D.C. Don sends along the news that JOHN LEONARD is at the U.S. Embassy in Mali and is a Foreign Scr\icc Officer. Another State Department representative is LOU CAVANAUGH, who is consular affairs officer at the American Consulate in Vagoya. A card from J.ACK CLARK reveals the following information: *'Saw JIM PFOHL in New York at the Plastics Show; he»s stiH batching it. Lost his roommate, JOHN PORTA, to wedding bells. JERRY & AL ELLS­WORTH remain successful at .Arthur Anderson and 



Ms^­

were the motive, Wanda the decorator, and 
market proceeds the source of the home 
Ed built in 1960. Except for clinker brick EDWARD C. DUKE, '48 from the old Nativity School, it's a lumber Leader in Lumber (We Wooden Kid You) 
wonderland, with interior paneling, ceiling Presiding in March at the anniial con­beams, molding and trim of oak, and with vention in Chicago, Memphis Tennesscan roof, louvers and even gutters of cedar. On 
E. C. Duke has been sen-ing for the past the wooded (naturally) lot the Duke chil­year as president of the National .Association dren have a pine-and-cedar play house. of Lumber Salesmen. He was elected and It's easy to see that Duke and his duchess spoke on the state of the industr>- last year wooden (ouch!) change Ed's business for in Miami. Fla., the youngest man (at 32) ever any other. 
have 3^2 and Z'/z luds respecti\-ely. We added one 
June 23, John Jr., and have one ^rl also. DICK 
MOLOKIE mov-ed to Chicago from the West Coast 
u-itlt his wife Dottle Lu and yotmg son. Dick is 
in the baking supplies business." Many thanks. 
Jack, for the welcome information. 
ED DEBOER was recalled to active duty last 

October 1st and is now a 1st Lt. with the Combat 
Engineers stationed at Fort De\-ens, Mass. Ed has 
his family of one boy and two girls with him and 
is anxiously awaiting his release, at which time he 
will move to Arizona u-ith the G.E. computer 
department. Another classmate recalled in October 
is DAVE McBRIDE, who is with the Anny In 
'Wrginia. 
JOE O'NEILL is an attorney in St. Paul, after graduating from the U, of Minnesota Law School in 1956 and three subsequent years with the USAF on the Azores. Joe has five children, 3 boys and 2 girls. JOHN NELSON Is an attorney in St. Petenburg, Fla. PETE PALUGHI is a lawyer in Mobile, and is running la the Democratic primary for District Attorney. CARL NICKEL is an attorney with the Hanna Co. c^ North Olmstead, Ohio. Carl's family consists <A five ^rls and a boy. MIKE PLUNKETT is city attorney for Du Quoin, Illinois, and has three dilldren. JOHN PORTER is ^vith Cooper-Jarrett, Inc., In Cleveland, and has two children. DR. JIM PATTERSON is back in Lorain, Ohio, practicing metiicine after a two-year tour In the Navy* Jim is still a bachelor. ART PULTE is V.P. of the Pulte-Strang Co. in Birming­ham, Michigan, and has four children. 
TOM NOURIE is treasurer of Leonard R. Nourie, Inc. in Pituburgh, and is busy selling machinery in West Virginia, Western Penmylvaota, and Eastern Ohio. Tom has four children, two boys and two girls. RAY PAINLEY is a medianical engineer with 
G.E. in Pittsfield, Mass. His third child ^vas bom January 25. BOB NIQUETTE is sales manager with Consumer's Steel and Dock Co. in Manitowoc, Wis. BOB O'NEIL is playing professional football with the New York Titans, after four years in Canada playing football and working for Philips Petroleum. Bob Is married and has four children. JOHN 
to head the association, and he has ser\'ed simultaneously as vice-president of the Mem­phis Lumbermen's Club (founded 1898), addressing the organization last fall on the glories of Southern Pine. His new English manor-type home was built by a man named Wood with oak, cedar, fir and pine provided by Duke Forest Products, Inc., of which Ed Duke happens to be vice-president. 
A man of such timber isn't bom with a wooden spoon in his mouth. .After August graduation (he prefers identification with the next year's class) Ed entered Vander­bilt's law school for a year, but an irresist­ible fragrance of fresh cut pine lured him to work in saw mills until he entered the .Army in the fall of 1950. Upon release from the military in 1952, he joined his father in the lumber brokerage business. The firm was incorporated in 1956, and additional salesmen were gradually added. Last year Duke Forest Products erected a ranch-type office building. 
Besides the lumber business Ed has been active in other investments. He married Wanda Wallace in 1953, and the Dukes have two girls and a boy. The children 
ffotre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 41 
NOLAN is branch manager for Sinclair Refining 
in NIadison, Wis., and was married to ^larilyn 
Wehncr from St. Cloud, Minn., in November, 
1960. The>' have one son, Peter John. 
JOHN NEALON is a Icaclicr with the Dayton 

Board of Education, and also ofliciatcs football. 
basketball, and basdiall for Ohio High Sdiools. 
Sandwiched into that busy scliedulc he finds time 
to raise six cliildren. five girls and a boy. JIM 
PFEIFFER is an attorney with the Toledo Terminal 
Railroad, has three cliildren. ED POWXLL is 
another father of six, and in his off hours is a 
ciril engineer with the Great LaLes Dredge & Dock 
Co. Ed lives in Bay City, Michigan. NASH NAV.AR 
is industrial relations and security officer with 
Nortlirop in EI Paso, Tex., and is also owner of 
a pet and sport store as well as a cattle business 
sideline. With all that activity. Nash has not as 
yet found time to depart the single state. 
Tliat exhausts tlie gossip supply for this issut*. Lei's hear from some more of you to keep the column alive. 
From the Alumni Office: 
J. W. SHAY is a&sociatc head of the Mitre Corporation's Norad command s\*stcm department, responsible for supervising s\-stem engineering phase*, for tlie North American .A,ir Defense Command. He has an M.B..\. from Harvard, worked on the Design of the SAGE Air Defense Sj-stcm at M.I.T.. and resides in Carlisle, Mass., uith his wife and two children. 
JOHN W. STOEPLER was graduated magna cum taudc from the Toledo Law Sdiool last June and won a fello^^'ship to the Yale Law School for master's and doctoral work in law. He's tlic son of ROBERT STOEPLER, *28, and ncphc^v of .\MBROSE STOEPLER, '31, who recently became director of Internal Revenue in Riclimond, Va. John lives at 25 Maple St., New Haven, Conn. 
RICHARD G. MOLOKIE of Broadrictv, 111., is in the management dc\'elopment program at Har\-ard Business School, starting in Januarv* and ending in May. Dick is sales promoter of the Joseph T. Shuflitowskt Co. 
ROL.4ND W- GRABELLE has won an award at the Chicago office of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. Tlie award is the first awarded to a new agent witli an outstanding record in sales performance and scrxice to clients. Roland and his wife, tlic former Joyce Janson of Chicago, ha\-e l%vo sons, Jeffrey and Barr>% and live in Palatine, Illinois. 
DR. RICHARD T. MITCH, a Ph.D. of the class, is a staffer at the new field office of the .American Chemical Society's applied publications in Los Angeles. Dick is an assistant editor, formerly with tile San Francisco news bureau. He did anti-malaria researdi at tlic U. of Micliigan and worked as a researdi chemist with the American Marietta Co., Industrial Rayon Corp. and the U.S. Army Signal Corps. He was xm assistant editor of Chemical and Engineering News in Washington, D.C., before going to California. 
1954 
Milton J. Beaudinc 76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 

1%2 — the year most of us will turn 30. I, for one, am too young to be 30 years of age. For you bachelors, remember tliis is the year you're over the hill. (I might get some argument on that) and for the rest of us competing for the lead in the *'ofrspring" race, we're rounding the turn into the stretcii. Anyone have seven diildren yet? 
Jo and DAN MUNSON announce the birtli of Thomas Edward Munson, bom December 25. Tliat's at least No. 5 (ma\-be 6) for them. (5007 Stony Run Ct., Fort Waj-nc, Ind.) DR. JOHN E. CUNNINGHAM, JR., Lt. USX, dropped me a note from 5593 Tamrcs Dr., San Diego, Calif., where he is in internal medicine at Balboa Na\'al Hospital. John attended Albany >fedical College and earned his degree in 1958. He then interned at the Naval Hospital in Boston. His big break came in 1937, howc\'er, when he was married to his lovely wife 3klarianne. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
PATRICK H. MEENAN, '49 Casper Mayor is No Milquetoast * 

Patrick Mecnan took office as mayor of his home town of Casper, Wyoming, on January 8 of this year. A certified public accountant, he practices this other profession as a partner in Raab, Roush and Ga>'mon, 
C.P.A. firm. He is acting president of the Notre Dame Club of Wyoming, an organ­ization he describes as "hampered by a small N.D. population and large distances but full of the old spirit." Meenan doubts that his alumni club will be bigger than Chicago's — at least in the next few years. 
Casper, Wyoming's second largest city, is situated in the center of the state on the main route leading to Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks and is known as the "Oil Capital of the Rockies." Pat Meenan has been on the Casper city coun­cil for five years. He has been active in promoting major street and park improve­ments and led the successful campaign under which Casper adopted its present council-manager form of government. He was a United States delegate to the World Con­ference of Local Governments held at the State Department in Washington last June and is a member of the American Municipal Association's Civil Defense Committee. His professional affiliation is the American In­stitute of Certified Public Accountants. 
Married to the former Shirley Byron, a Pomona College alumna, Pat has four children: Maurj-a, 10; Kevin, 6; Michael, 5; and Patricia Kelly, bom on St. Patrick's Day, 1961. His N.D. degree ^vas Bachelor of Science in Commerce, cum laude, with a major in accounting. His brother, Robert, attended Notre Dame in 1943-44 but trans­ferred to the U.S. Na\-al Academy, gradu­ating in 1948. Bob now lives at El Segundo, California. Pat and Bob Meenan's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Meenan, who im­migrated from Ireland, now live in retire­ment at Long Beach, California. 
Received a beautiful card announcing the ordina-^ tion to the sacred priesthood of the REV. JOHN ^ 
J. GRIFFIN, JR., on February* 2, 1962 in Lowell. Mass. Father John offered his first solemn Mass on February 4. (Last home address is 80 Bridge St., Salem, Mass.) 
ED MADIGAN, 5528 Glenbrook Dr., Oakland. Calif., penned a short note on a Christmas card and supplied the following: RAY TILLEY is in San Diego working for G.E., making sure the pop-up toasters pop. On the side he manages G.E. appliance sales for that area. BERNIE PAULSEN is teaching high sdiool and is assistant football coacit at Slerced High. Beriiic is married and has three cliildren. TOM NEUM.AYER, recently mar­ried, is an M.D. now stationed \ritli the .Army in .-VTizona (?). (Ed — we missed you at the ^ reunion party.) MAX J. PLANTE sent a card and W note reaflirming his belief that my brother-in-law. GEORGE HUBBARD, has become quite adept at "bend the elbow." Received word that ROBERT 
W. GREEN, 1432 W. Union BK-d., Bethlehem. Pa., is instructing philosophy at Marymount College in Tarrytown, N. Y. The teaching career is an inter­ruption in his studies towards his Ph.D. Bob was afflicted u-ith polio in 1954 and while this put him on the sidelines for a while, tic's back in the tliick of things now. His wheel cliair restricts him vcr>' little. He received his master's in philosophy at Toronto. 
An ole cliem engineer buddy, BOB RAYMOND, (Universal Oil Products) reports 1961 as his most c\-cntful year. Naturally, Bob, your wife Joyce ^ saved you from being an "over the hill" bachelor " in 1%2. From your account of >-our wanderings overseas right up to your uncertain wedding date, you were lucky Joyce was waiting. AL BRANIGrVN (St. Ed's Hall 1950) was best man. Bob sees another ole friend, JOHN LANDIG, quite a bit. John is also recently married. Both Joyce and John's wife Isabella were expecting in Marcli and April respectively. HANK CLANCY is in India wt>rking vrith American C>*anamid helping put a n«»\> plant on stream. BOB RAYMOND con be readied at Universal Oil Products, Des Plaincs, Illinois. 
BOB MILLER reports on tlie dvil engineers: PAUL SCHWEICKERT, 617 E. Richmond St., Peoria, III., is married with four dilldren. JOHN GRINDEL, married witli at least three young-uns, is in Louisrille, Ky. D.-WE BICKEL, very recently^ married, is helping Albuquerque, N. M., grow. W. JIM GARVEY, with four diildrcn, is liring in Appleton, somewhere, USA. BILL HARTNAGEL, Orn-iUc, Ohio, and wife Dorothy have three diildren. (Who knous where D.WE KEFFLER and JIM KINTZ are?) DICK LEONG, 2438 Pauoa Rd., Honolulu, is married and has at least one son. Mildred and JACK NASHERT have three children, two of whom like to play mailman (comment please. Jack). VIC ROBLEZ and Jackie have Just moved to Denver. \VALT STAUB lias disappeared under a cloud of mosquitoes in New Jersey*. BILL TILL, over the hill bachelor, is >till holding' his own in Pittsburgh. BILL KIRSCH is at 113 Pound St., Lockport, N. Y. ^ 
I've just about exhausted my hoard of material. •^ HELP! Don't forget the Foundation with your kind contributions. Hats ofT to the University brain trust tlie way they brilliantly managed tlic N.D.­Syracuse controversy. 
From the Alumni Oflicc: 
BRO. HENRY S. BRAND, O.P. (formerly FRED BRAND, JR.) dieckcd in from the Dominican House of Studies, St. Thomas Aquinas Priory, River Forest, III., with best wishes to the sdiool and the dass. He was last heard of at tlic house of studies in Winona, Minn. 
FRANCIS X.WIER ME.\NEY of Boston asked us to announce his engagement to Miss Patricia Leahy (Wcllesley '56) of Springfield, Mass. Un­fortunately, convention forbade our putting home towns, etc., in the statistics, which Frank 6nds *'a bit uninformative," but we're happy to show them here. .^ 
EDWARD H. BROWN, JR., of Eonston, 111,, * reported via FATHER JOHN WALSH that he has moved to a new seven-bedroom home as of Januar>' (address: 2316 Marcy Ave.}, and by now the Browns probably liavc tlieir fifth diild (in six years). 
A recent issue of Tlie Sign magazine listed a gnid school dassmatc, DR. THOMAS E. W.-UN­WRIGHT, as an up-and-coming young Catholic. Tom is a nuclear ph>-5icist at tlie University of California's Larcnce Radiation I ^ in Livermore, ^ Calif., and The Sign was impressed by his lackv/ of hand-WTinging about atomic weapons. **I'm sure 
that our having them has so far prevented anyone 

y from shooting them," he sa>*s. Tom is married, lias a daughter, and is a member of the Albertus Magnus Guild, a professional league of top-flight Catholic scientists. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridge Blvd. Chicago 45, Illinois 

The "letter of the c\-cle'* award goes this time to all of you who sent Christmas cards with news of yourselves and classmates. Thanks a buncli! And for the rest of you — put my name on your 1962 list right now. 
Received a nice letter from JOHN RYx\X, who is studying for the priesthood at St. Procopius Seminary in Lisle, III. He reports that he worked for a steel company after graduation, and then went into the Army. While in Germany, John came in contact with DICK SZYiNLVNSKI, who, incidentally, had another great year u^tli the Baltimore Colts. John took his philosophy at St. Thomas Scminar>' in Denver and will complete his theoIog>- in June of 1964. John added that he remembers the class in his prayers cadi day. 
White I'm on this Roman collar kick, Td like to acknowledge JI.M SHERER's fine Christmas letter. Jim is at the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary in Wasliington. 
R. E.M.METT C\TER writes that he graduated from St. Mar>- University Law School last year. He now is an assistant criminal district attome>' in San /Vntonio. (From my 14 week stint there with Uncle Sam, I bet he has plenty of work, too!) Emmelt has two girls, Lisa and Vanessa. He would like to hear frt»n CHARLES L. D.VSCHLE. Emmett's address is 124 West Summit Ave., San Antonio, 12. 
ncidentally, I now have a current file on evcr>-­

%o onc in the class. If you would like someone's address, drop me a line. (My rates arc ver>- low.) The Alumni office has lost track of the following— PETER ABT. FRANK BUSBEE, FRED DELLO­STRITTO, JACKSON FL\'NN, GEORGE HALK­lAS, KAMAL HOSSALV, MICHIO KATO, JOHN LOCHT, CHARLES MEARS, TOM MOBLEY, WALT SCHROEDER, CHARLES TEMPLIN, WILLLVM WEBB and TSU HSING YEH. Will you gu>-s please clieck in with the powers at South Bend so that they can send this bright, witty column direct into your eager hands. If anyone has any current infonnation on these lost souls, write me and I'll pass along the dope. 
JOE SASS/\NO continues to hog the class atli­

• Ictic spotlight. He has been named high school coacli of the year for his work with Weber High School here in Chicago. /\s I reported previously, Joe guided Weber to the city title. His three year record Is 24-6-2. After graduation, Joe served in the Marines and coaclied at Paris Island for two years. He got his master's from X.D. He and his wife, Carol, have one son, Joseph Patrick. 
TO.M CAREY, who coached Mt. Carmcl to the title before devoting full time to law, welcomed his first cliild recently. FR.ANK LOLLI and his wife. Diane, welcomed Frank, Jr., to the Iiome­stcad Dec. 5. Tom's buddy, Dx\N SH.ANNON, recently was named Sccretar>* of the Illinois Rac­ing Commission. 
DICK BEEMAN, the man-on-the-movc, recently went into business with his father as midwest representative of several paper mills. Dick has been in the neu'spaper, radio and printing fields g^since his discliargc from the Army. DON GELS, ^th c old maestro, was in the Windy City recently.  understand Don still Is In the furniture business. 
Have you made any records lately, Don? 
TOM BOSSE, our answer to Broadway's DaWd ^^e^rIck, called the other day while in Chicago to clicck on his night club!? During the daylight hours he is a stockbroker in Cleveland, where he also has a club. Tom has three cliildrcn. 
What ever happened to XAVIER ABOITIZ, FRED ABOOD, DON BALV, JIM BAKER, WALT 
^CABRAL, CHARLIE CADWELL, MIKE DAKIN, 
9DAS DALEY, CARL ECK, HARRY EDELSTEIN. 
BILL FAGAN, JOHN FALLON, JOHN GAFF­
NEY, BOB GAHL, JOHN HACKETT, JOHN HADDOX, PAUL JACKIEWIC2, BILL JACK­SON, WALT KAaMAREK, AL KAELIX, JOHN KENNEDY, BILL KENNEY, RENE LACAYO, CHARLIE LAIRD, BOB McAULIFFE, PAT Mc-AWARD, FRED NADER and CHARLIE NAJJAR? Redeem yourselves by writing TODAY. Don't forget, I can't depend on Christmas cards to fill the next column! Oh well, maybe your wives will send me an Easter card. 
And now to get Into the Yule cards. FR-ANK BURKE writes that he and Ann have their hands full with Robert, Mike, Kathi and Cris. I can imagine so. I would say that four children puts you into your "Daddy of the Class" race, Frank. Uliat's the latest news on the west coast, DON YECKEL? 
It was good to hear from the "coolest" man in the class, GEORGE SHELTON. After throwing a few barbs my way (that's why it's nice to be writing the column — you alwa>-s get the last word!), George reported that lie worked with a 
C.P.A. firm in Xe\v Orleans since his dbcharge from the Xavy In 1958. Now he has joined a large construction firm in Xcw Orleans, however, as assistant controller. George has issued a blanket imitation to the "troops" to drop in for a drink at 549 Brockcncraugh Ct., Metalrie, La. I don't know what his wife, Carol, will have to say, though. The Shcltons have two bo>-s. It was good to hear from you, "G." 
BILL McLAIN didn't quite make Ic to Europe for his big ski trip. Bill took a leave of absence from his law practice to ser\'c as law clerk in the 
U. S. district court, and he sayrs that the new post cut into his ski time considerably. Poor, Willie! DICK MxVNNION penned a note on the back of his card and said that he hoped to sec some of you back on the campus this fall during the foot­ball season. The happiest guy in the class, DAVE METZ, condensed his Christmas greeting to the irredudbic minimum (as the cast of Xcw Faces would say) — "Cheers!" DICK CONNELLY sent greetings from his new address—13 Gold St., Dunellen, X.J. 
JOHX HOBBS, who recendy was elected presi­dent of the X.D. Club of Oklahoma City, wrote that he had a ball coming up for the Oklalioma-Irish gajnc last year. We saw JOHX H.ARTIG.AX at the game. John had lunch with LEE CREAM in South Bend. John adds that JIM GIBBON'S lias moved to Oklahoma City with Equitable Life In­surance Co. Incidentally, another member of X.D.'s best class — GENE SCHMIT — is vice president of the Oklahoma City club. He Is with Western Elec­tric. Whoops, almost forgot, John and wife, Jacque, have a boy and girl. 
AMEEL R/VSHib, who noiv sports an M.D. be­hind his name. Is finishing his residency* in Internal medicine at Milwaukee County Hospital. Ameel was In pri\'ate practice for six months, but decided to finish his special training. He wants to hear from JIM CURTIX. So would a lot of people, Ameel, but Jim has become a hermit. Claims he 
SMITH A. FUNK, '50, Reynolds Aluminum architectural representative (right), and Prof. Frank Montana, head of the N.D. architecture department (left), give Reynolds' 1962 prize to I. J. Studebaker, a senior architect from Belmond, Iowa. 
has to work all the time. Maybe your best bet is to write Jim. His address is R.R. 2, Box 76, St. Charles, 111. (How's the spring planting coming, Jim?) 
Last, but not least, I heard from the former author of this column, TOM 0*MALLEY. I'm obliged to report, ho^t'cver, that I think his wife, Jackie, MTote the note. The O'Malleys (see, Tom, I gave you the benefit of the doubt) report that DON LANSPA has been transferred to Kansas City. He's also with Western Electric JACK SORANNO and his wife, Arlenne, had a baby ^rl, Joan Marie. 
The only thing I dislike about writing this column Is reporting bad news. I have learned that BOB BURXETT A%-as killed in an auto crash Oct. 11. A special memorial Mass was said on campus Feb. 3. Please remember Bob in your prayers this Sunday. 
From the Alumni Office: 
PAUL A. MILLER is manager of communica­tions for the Evans\illc (Ind.) division of Whirl­pool Corp. He w-as formerly at the ccmpany's ser\ice center in LaPorte, Ind., since I960. Paul had worked on the headquarters staff of Worth­ington Corp., Harrison, X.J., five years as a com­munications specialist In employee and public rela­tions. His ^vifc and t^^x} children have joined him in E\*ans\ille. 
DOXALD F. WALTER (LL.B. '56) has been named an assistant \ice-president and trust officer at South Bend's First Bank & Trust Co., his eli­gibility growing by the day. (Don remains a bachelor.) 
Finance grad JAMES J. OWENS has been named methods accountant at St. Louis, Mo., for South­western Bell Telephone Co. Jim joined South­western Bell at Topeka in 1956, serving a year in the Army after completing management training, and has serv'ed in v-arious supervisory jobs In St. Louis since 1959. 
Serving vrith the Air Force In Dreux, France, CH.ARLES J. NAJJ.\R may have set a new record for promotions since being called to duty last fall with an .-Vlabama .Air National Guard wing. Charlie entered the 117th Tactical Recon Wng of Birming­ham, Ala., as an airman second class, having served with the Birmingham law firm of Berkowitz, Lefko­vits & Padcn. Five months later he was a first lieutenant — eight grades higher in rank — and serving In the legal section as assistant staff judge advocate. .Another Air Force man is CAFT. JOHN LOCHT, v\iio recently completed advanced navi­gator-bombardier training. After survival and com­bat training he'll be assigned to B-52 stratofor­tresscs at Homestead Air Force Base, Florida. He and wife Barbara (nee Huston of Brownsville, Tex.) have two children. 
ROBERT N. DIXEEN got an LL.B. at the win­ter commencement of Cleveland's Western Reserve, and ANTHON'Y J. GUTHRIE (M.A. '56) picked up his Ph.D. at Michigan State. A Ph.D. with the Class, Canadian-bom LEON ST. PIERRE has be­come manager of the polj-mer and interface studies section of the G. E. Research Laboratory, Schenec­tady, X.Y., in charge of 20 chemists. The St. Pierres have sbc children, and Leon is a former president of the Schenectady XJ). Club. 
Finally, prayers arc requested for THOMAS ROME, reported deceased in Los Altos, Calif., last Xovember, and for an honorary classmate, sculptor IVAX MESTROVIC. 
1956 
John P. Dcasy 
5697 N. Lincoln Ave. 
Chicago 43, niinots 

From the Alumm Office: 
EUGENE F. BRENNAN, JR., Is now associated with Chicago's Smith, Barney &. Co. (members of the Xcw- York and Nfld\%-est Stock Exchanges) as a registered representative. The firm has branches in Xew- York, Philadelphia, Boston and San Fran­cisco. Gene wotddn't mind you Chlcagoans throw­ing your securities trade his way. 
\Vhile we're in the Windy City, the Chicago Tribune recently printed a beautlftd tribute to the late JOHN G.AFFNEY, who died last Septem­ber. The story told how John came to Notre Dame as an all-state back from St. Ignatius, pulled a leg muscle vt^ile working out for the Varsity with JOHN LATTNER, backed up NEIL WOR­DEN at fullback and finally started with RALPH GUGLIELMI, DON SCHAEFER and JOE HEAP. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 43 
Lcff pains forced hjm out, and JIM MORSE joined the backficid with Schaefcr moving to full. In the Army John came down with pneumonia, but he returned to marry his hometown swectlicart Janet and sire three sons, Michael, John and Timothy. He began to prosper as an accountant when leu­kemia struck him down. A benefit u-as held in Chicago for Jtrfm's widow and three sons. Trib writer Ray Bendlx concluded: "John will alwa>-s be remembered as tJic man who exemplified Notre Dame football at its finest. He was a superior downfield blocker and a vicious tackier. He had that quick Irish take-ofi" from scrimmage. He was hungry' for lictorv' and excellence. Wlien South Bend subway alumni think of Notre Dame they recall Gipp, Rockne and Lattncr. Some of us add 'GafTne^V " 
ROBERT C. McCOLLUM lias joined the s\s­tems engineering department, militar>' products di\-ision ol Adlcr Electronics, Inc., New RocheUc, 
N.Y. Bob has a Master's with the Class. Another M.A.. RICHARD J. LOOSBROCK, resides xvith his wife and five cliildren at 124 W, 13th St.. Law­rence, Kan., wlierc he is studying at ibe U. of Kansas on a Ph.D. fellowship. He left the foreign service and rctiumcd to the Stales in May, 1960, just before tJic Congo Wolencc brokt; out. 
JACK FITZSIMMONS has joined State Farm Mutual as Eastern di^Tsion field claim representa­tive. Jack is married. JOSEPH A. FLORES fin­ished four years in the Navy last July and is now taking law at Ohio Nortliem. Still living in Toledo, Jim v%^mted to hear from TIM McCrVRTHY and RON* CARISSmi. 
SvTnpathy to the mother of Classmate THOMAS 
B. CARTER, who was killed in an .A,miy plane crash in February. 
1957 
Donald J. Barr 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 
Jack E. Casey 
Clucago Show 
Printing Co. 
555 Fifth Ave. 
New York 17, N. Y. 

Tlic eastern social season started with the mar­riage of ED DEAN to his college sweetheart, Gail. Among the alumni present were BOB MILLER, who is now back in Cleveland, and RICH CLARK. AL DANT v^'as in the wedding party but he had to hurry back to Cle\*eland Saturday nitc to see his fiancee. An attempt was made to have him miss his plane but to no avail. 
BOB ACAROO is now working for General Mo­tors Corp. in Chicago. JOHN ROBINSON wrtHc that he is a resident surgeon at Kennedy Veterans Hospital in ^Icmpliis, Tenn. He is married and has two diildren. His former roommate, JOHN BRETTENSTEIN, is working for Phizcr Pharma­ceutical Co. in Midiigan. MANN'V RIVAS, who is now married, is interning at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. 
JERRY KLEIN, currcntlv living in Hopkins, Minnesota, said "DAN KELLY. STU RICHARD­SON and OSC\R SOCIA and families were all up to visit us last summer. \Vc all had a wonderful time up here in the 'Land of Sky Blue Waters.* " 
Received a letter from DANTE FULIGNI in­forming me that his name is not spelled "Danty Fu^itii." He also mentioned that it came as a surprise that he and his vnle have two children. However, he corrected our error in Jansary when his second child arrived. Dante is currently work­ing for Gordon Schopfcr Architects in Syracuse, N.Y. 
•••:••••/ 

MICHAEL MURRAY, '58, wife Mary and unidentified canine friend display their good old Land Rover in the bush of Basutoland, South Africa, where the Murrays have spent the past two years in teaching and assistance to natives as a Lay Apostolate activity. ^"J \i 
Further details can be found in the Class of 1958 news on these pages. ( 
MIKE McINTYRE'S hitdi is up in the U.S.A.F. He is heading back to Wisconsin with his wife and three children where he w-ill attend law school. JACK PRUSS has received his ;Vashington State Ardiitcct's license. JACK HARVEY is married and living in Genera, N.Y. LOU LONCORIC was in New York for a fc\s' months and is now working for a brokerage firm in .Atlanta, Ga. 
JIM CUSAK has one son and another diild on the way. K. J. PHELAN is finishing up his three year hitch in the Navy. P.AUL WALKER is work­ing for Chase Manhattan Bank and living in New-York City. C\ROL DOYLE is finishing law school and working for a law finn in. New York City. FRANK BROPHY is attending Columbia Gradu­ate Scliool since his discharge from the Marines. 
Our sincere congratulations to PAUL HORNUNG for his being named National Football Player of the year. 
The Department of Communication Arts has taken a survey of its members and here arc the results: ROGER ALLAN is publications director of the Homestead in Hot Springs, Virginia; BILL FIDATI is a reporter for the South Bend Tribune; RON FRANCIS is with McCarthy Bros. & Associates in their fund-raising department; JOE FRANZGROTE is a television advertising salesman for WTVO in. Rockford, 111.; TOM GUILFOILE has two chil­dren and is working for General Insurance; BILL iLARPER is working for Mail-O-Graph Inc. in man^ement and sales; MAURICE HAWKES­WORTH is married with two children and is with 
M. W. Hawkesworth Associates (advertising); JOHN HENRICK is a seminarian at St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore; JIM JONES is working for Hess & Jones, marketing consultants, in South Bend, is married and has two duldrcn; TOM JUDGE is a member of the Montana Legislature and head of his own advertising agcno' in Helena, Montana; RAY LESCHER is a seminarian at Universite Laval, Facultc dc Theologic, Quebec; JOHN MC­DONNELL is a reporter for the Chicago Tribune; DENNIS MCLAUGHLIN is married and has one child, is working in tlie trust dcpt. of the First National Bank of Oregon; JIM MEAGHER is mar­ried and has one diild, is a copyreadcr for the Chicago Trib; DA\T NOLAND is with the Noland Camera Co.; FR.ANK PERETTA is dty editor of the Daily Star in Onconta, N.Y.; PAUL REILLV is a lieutenant (j.g.) in the U.S. Navy; JOHN ROCK is a graduate student at Marquette Uni­versity; JOE SCHRANT2 is married and has five diildren, is a reporter for the South Bend Tribune; JOE TAFT sa>-s he is a house painter and lawn sower; DAVE THOMPSON is married and has two children, is a reporter for News-Press, St. Joseph Gazette; JIM WEBBER is a reporter for the Can­ton Rcpositorj-, is married and has one duld; RON W*EBER is an English instructor at Loras College 
in Dubuque, Iowa, is married and has two duldrcn. There were no reports from CARL B.^UWIN, 
J. H. BELL, H. C. BLAKESLEE, ^L J. FITZ­GERALD, H. AV. LOCKWOOD, J. M. MCCABE, JAMES NORTON, T. J. O'NEILL, T. RITM.\N, 
W. P. RYDER. C. A. SKIFF. 
DON B.ARR adds the following last minute scoops: 
"DICK CUNNINGHAM writes that he will re­ceive his MBA from AVharton Sdiool of Finance in June. He also sends word on the following: FRANK O'BRIEN has taken over his famil/s ^ construction business after the death of his fatherjfj CRARLEY HESSE is married, has a baby giri and is also in the ironstniction business; R.\Y De> SUTTER is a Trapplst Monk in Kentucky; and PAT WILLIAMSON is reported to have married a Texas girl last fall.*' 
From the Alumni Office: 
Tlic New York Times' Arthur Daley adds to the stack of PAUL HORNUNG dippings with some typical Hornung anecdotes: the gift o! a red Corvette as a mate for Iiis white Cadillac, his trips to Fort Riley by private plane, the star his team­mates hung in the window, etc. Word is that Paul will be out by June. A 
ED ZILLIKEN was married last December 30 to Miss Harriett McAllister of St. Louis, Mo. The Zillikens have taken a flat at 5017 Pernod .Av., St. Louis 9. Ed works in computer programming for General American Life Insurance Co. He sent a wedding invitation to the gcolog>- dcpt. but forgot tlie Alumni Office. TOM SCHROEDER attended tlie Wedding as tlic only other geologist in St. Louis. 
Despite a notice that listed him as "H. Robert," we tliink it was HARVEY P. HEIL who got an 
LL.B. in Western Reserve's winter commencement in CIcvdand. THO.MAS E. CHARLTON was award­ed 3 Ph.D. at Ohio State, Columbus. 
From Poughkcepsie, N.Y., CONNOR F. H.\UGH reports that "an awful lot has happened" since he last corresponded. " I was married last summer to Sharon O'Neill of Kewanee, 111. I got my Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in October, and **"c-^ moved to Poughkeepsie, where I'm working fot^ IBM. I'm hoping to make tlie dass reunion in June," 
PAUL H. JOHNSON was married last June to Sarah P. Tiers of Philadelphia and Grilvillc, O. Paul has an ^LA. of the University of Pennsyl­vania and has completed much of his work for a Ph.D. at Penn. 
RAYMOND C. McCLINTOCK rcccnUy joined the copy writing staff of LaGrangc and Garrison, Inc., Indianapolis advertising agency. Ray /^'^W, , fonneriy assistant editor for "one of the nation ^ ^ largest business journals." 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ April-May, 1962 
1958 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue LaPorte, Indiana 

This current report of the news of the Class of '58 must unfortunately begin with the relating of the death of a classmate, VINCENT P. CARROLL, 
foi Laguna Beach, Calif., who departed this life on January* 23, 1962. We extend our s>-mpathy, on behalf of Vincc's friends and classmates, to. his family with the assurance of our prayers. Father Boannan has been asked to offer a Mass for Vincc on behalf of the Class. 
Much happier news received by your reporter is the notice of the marriage on December 31, 1961, of FRANK MANZO and Mhs Linda Lee PfcIfTcr, in Newton, Penna. 
Other nuptials recently ccU'brated were those of JOHN DUNN and Miss Barbara Burke, on Fcb­ruarv- 10, 1962, in Park Ridge, Illinois. In attend­ance tvere MIKE SH.ANNON, ROD METTE, JOHN DENARDO (currently serving as law clerk to Federal Judge Roger Kilcy of the Sc\'enth Cir-
Icuit Court of Appeals, in Chicago) and your sec­retary- ART ROULE. TIic groom is in the patent law department of American Oil in Chicago. 
RON FARROW and wife, Marinellc, arc rejoic­ing over the birth of a daughter, Deborah Susan, on Januar>- 20, 1962, their third child. The prc­\"ious arrivals, both daughters, were Ellen Marie (1959) and Kimberly Anne (1960). Ron works with Farrow & Co. in the Indianapolis stock\-ards. 
BOB MOLUMBY writes that he is in the 'Xa\-y OCS at Newport, R.I. He expects to be commis­sioned in .•\pril. Last June, Bob rcccivxd a master's degree in city planning from the University of California at Berkeley. 
.Another recent letter relates that GERRY PAS­TUL.V is now in Detroit, his old home town, where he has a position as customer relations 
.representative with the Ford Motor Company. Prc-
Iviously Gerr>- spent 20 months working for Uncle Sam at Fifth Army Headquarters in Chicago, and then spent some time with Hart, SchafTner & Marx. Next September 15, Gcny will be wed to Miss Paula Guthne. 
A year ago we reported on MIKE MURRAY and Iiis *rifc, Mar>', who at tliat time ivere in Maseru, Basutoland, Southern Africa, where Mike was on the faculty of the Commerce College of Plus XII University*. Mike and Mar>* were dc­\-otIng their time and cfTorts (around the clock) to what we might refer to now as a priv-ate Peace Corps project, endeavoring to Impart some knowl­edge of business, home economics, and hygiene to 
ktheir African neighbors. Mike has had business 
draining, particularly in the field of credit unions: and Mar>' Is a nurse, who found it necessary to make her rounds In the rugged countr>"sIdc by foot, bicycle (when the terrain permitted It) and finally in a second-hand Land Rover. 
We have just received anotlier letter from the Murrays with an account of their activities in the past year. Unfortunately space limitations prevent our printing the entire content of the report (whicli is extremely Interesting) but here is a scant sum-mar>-. Mike was forced to leave the university, due to a lack of qualified students and funds. After considering work in other parts of Africa, the Murrays decided to remain in Basutoland, hoping to continue their efforts in bringing know-how and assistance to the underdeveloped and undcredu­cated Inhabitants. Mike took an accountant's posi­tion with the Basutoland Treasury* (under the British Government). Living accommodations bc­k'ng scarce, Mike and Mary took up residence across the border in the neighboring Republic of South Africa; in an antiquated farm whicli they began rehabilitating. However, by moving into the Republic of South Africa, they have run into the "Apartheid" white-supremacist policies which ob­struct contacts between the white and Negro races, and whicli therefore hamper the u-ork which was the aim of the Murrays in going to Africa. How­ever, since the Murrays are apparently not dis­couraged by liardship and adversity, it would seem .that wc need not fear for the success of their chosen Itnlssion. Our praise and admiration arc ccrtainly due to Mike and Mary Mturay, and I know they 
would appreciate a few of our prayers as well. Their address Is Gerard Farms, P.O. Box 181, Maseru, Basutoland, Southern Africa. 
GENE KERVIN sent us a card from Dallas with the follo^ving news. Gene Is now with Goodbody & Company of Dallas, baring recently completed a three month training program In New York. Gene and wife, Frances, became parents last July of a daughter, Lynnc Elizabeth. Classmate Ker^in mentioned that he is looking forward willi eager­ness to our first FIve-Year Reunion In June of 1963, whicli provides your secretary with a cue to remind the rest of you of the approach of that happv occasion. 
More wedding ne\vs: LARRY PELTON was married on February 10. 1962. to Miss Bernadlne Walker of Charleston, S.C. BERNIE GESSNER ser\'cd as an iLsher at the affair. 
In response to our previous quer>- as to his where­abouts, JOE GAGLIARDI submits the following news. Joe spent two years at the Wharton School of Business and received his M.B.A. in 1960. He was married on September 10, 1960, to iUss Kathr>'n Glavin of Pelham. N.Y. Since October of 1961, Joe has been working with Genural FIKHU In White Plains, N.Y. In July of 1961, the Gag­liardis* first child arrived, Anne Elizabeth by name. Joe reports that JOE DERRICO is living in Mamaroncck, N.Y., lias two children and is work­ing with his father; JIM O'NEILL is still single and is working for I.B.M. in Newark; AL .ALLEN Is In NCTV York, working on Wall Street; and DON CVCAGNINI is married, is living in Bay-shore, Long Island, and Is also working on Wall Street. 
BOB FORSBERG is back with Uncle Sam, hav­ing been recalled to active duty •vrith the Red Arrow Di\-ision at Fort Levvis, \\'ash. Before be­ing recalled Bob and his family (two children) were living in Napen-ille, Illinois. Otliers in the service are ANDY CLx\RK (also at Fort Lwvis), R^\Y MARTINELLO stationed In Germany; and J.ACK WORKNLVN, at Fort Devcns, Mass., from whence he is soon to be released. 
Old roommate JOHN RUSSO dropped us a line around Christmas time informing us tliat he is now with Cos-Cob, a division of Oxford >tanu­facturing Co. and is handling a line of women's sportswear. 
And for those of you who are confused by the contradictory reports circulating about the mllitar>' status of your secretary, I ofi"er this information ^vhich I can finally certify as definite. I will go on active duty with the .\ir Force shortly after 
CLASS OF 1951 entries in the family sweepstakes included: (top, clockwise from right) Chuck Luecke, wife Marge, daughters Marcia and Alicia, sons Roh and Chuckie; (helow, l.-r.) Class Veep Hank Madden, son Mark, wife Sally, and daughters Lynn and Kathy. 
the first of the year (1963), having received a commission as a First Lieutenant in the Judge Advocate General's Corps (in other words, the Air Force legal department). In tlie meantime, I am practicing law in LaPorte, Indiana. 
For the final segment o( this issue's news we offer the following Infonnatton from a survey, recently conducted by Prof. Thoaias Stritcfa of N.D.'s Communications Arts Department, per­taining to a selection of members of the Class of 1958. In order to conserve qnce we publish this information ia the condensed style of the survey report. It is as follows: JOE ACCARDO, script writer for Fox-Movietone Ncwsreels, United Press, Arlington, Va.; JOHN BIRK—Fessel, Siegfiiedt. Dooley & Moeler, Ind. (advertising), Louisville, Ky.; JERRY BRADY—married, one child, Ia>.­student. University of California; JOE BRIDE— Editorial Staff, Life Magazine. New York; BOB CAIR.A—married, three children, account executive, Milburn McCarty Assoc, New York; BILL CHES­SON—married, one iihlld, staff annoimcer, WSTV­TV, Stcubennlle, Ohio; TONY CIAMBELU—Sales trainee. Production Sted, Femdale, Mlclugan; PAUL D'AMORE—.Ass't Manager Advertising, Wbconsin Blue Cross Plan. Milwaukee; RON DE­NARDO—married, one child, English teacher and coacli, Bloomiogton, III.; BILL DESETA—married, stage manager. New York theaters, Ne%v York; JOHN DONAHUE—married, one child, director public relations. United Cerebral Palsy, Chic^o; JIM FEENEY—ass't manager of daytime sales serv­ice, ABC-TV Network, New York; BOB FER­RANTE—married, two children. Staff Writer in Community Relations, Western Electric Co., New York; JOHN GL.AVIN—married, Donald J. Rob­inson Co., Scottsrille, N.Y.; BUCK HARRISS— student at Sorbonne. Paris, France; BRUCE HUOT —married, one child, ass't sales manager, Baron-Huot Oil Co., Kankakee. lU.; CV LINDE.MANN —married, three children, customer relations man­ager, Sexunan-.And\\'alI Corp., Ixonia, Wis.; BILL MALECK—student. .American Institute o{ Foreign Trade, Phoenix; PAT \fcCULLOUGI^-married, two cliildren, advertising manager, Illinois Tool Works, Chicago; JOHN McMAHON—married, edi­tor, Alcoa lowan, Bettendorf, Iowa; DAVE Mc­SHANE—married, one child, sales representatKc, I.B.M., Pittsburgh; BILL MOTZ-^narried, two children, advertising salesman, Kitchener-\Vaterloo Record, Kitchener, Ontario; JERRY REEDY— graduate student. University of South Dakota; JOHN RILEY—security salesman, Eastman, DUIon & Union Securities Co.', Chicago, 111.; DON RUHL —department manager, notions, retailing, St. Louis; JOE SCHAEFER—1st Lieutenant, Air Force, Cars-well AFB, Texas; MIKE SCANLON—U. S. .Amry, Hawaii; JIM SCHERER—English teacher and coach. Bishop Noll High School, Hammond, Ind.; DAVE SHANAH.AN—lieutenant, j.g., U. S. Sa.\y. 
That's it for now. gentlemen. For the next issue let us have some nc%vs from you. 
JOHN PRU5S contributes the foUou-ing: "My wife Joan and I now have three children: Cathie, 3J4 yrs., Jeff, 2i4 >TS., and Kelly Ann, 9 mos. We'll be liring at our present address in Rome, N.Y., until October, 1962 because I've been extended in the Air Force until then. I'm a First Lieutenant, stationed at Griffiss .AFB and working for the Base Engineer. In June, I960 I passed the Washington State Architect's Exam and am now licensed to practice there. I have also applied for registra­tion in New York State. 
"Now news of other N.D. alumni I've seen or heard of recently: D.ANTE FULIGNI is out of the Navy as of last July and now working tor an archi­tect In Syracuse, N.Y. He and his wife have two children. TOM WURZER, his wife Eileen and their three children live in Penfield, N.Y. Tom works for an architect In Rochester. He will take llie New York State .Ardiitect's exam for the first time in February. LORAN SCHOENBACHLER, his wife and new baby are living in Chio^o, \%hcre Loran works for American Merrietta Com­pany. JOHN HARVEY is working for an archi­tect' in Geneva, N.Y. GEORGE MOJZISEK is working for an architect in Baltimore. F. PETER SCHUERMAN is a helicopter pilot in the Air Force stationed at Pease .AFB, New Hampshire. DENNY D'ALELIO, who is married and has two chOdren, has been found in the Air Force at Pease AFB, New Hampshire. CARL ENGSTROM, '59, his wife and txvo children, live in Cohoes, N.Y., where Carl works for the state while going to Law School nights. 
"DANIEL RAPP, '59, is a Uculenant in the Air Force stationed at Hancock Field, Syracuse, N.Y., where he works for the Base Engineer. FRANK McBRIDE, '57, lives with his wife Caryl and 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ April-Mayy 1962 45 
dauglitcr in Glen Rock, Xc»v Jersey, where he works for Ills father's mcclianical contmcting firm. Recently Fmnk has been in S\'racusc taking an air conditioning course at Carrier Corp. FRANK COOKE, '57, his wife and two cliildren, recently mo\Td to Troy, X.Y.. wlierc Frank is teaciiing and ivorking on a Ph.D. in Metal!urg>- at R-P.I. RALPH SCHULLER, *57, is in Spokane, ^Vashing­ton, going to Gonzaga Univcrsitv Law Scliool. HE.\RV HEN'RIKSO.V, '57, is a B-52 naWgator in tlie Air Force stationed at Grifliss AFB, X.Y. JOHN HIEXIMAN, '57, has a Ph.D. in history* and is an instructor at Cornell University. MARTIN "MARTY" ANGELINO, '57, is teadiing at Canc­stota, N.Y., Junior High Scliool. CHARLES "BUD" AHERN, •when last heard of, ^\-as in the .-Xir Force stationed at Vandenbcrg AFB. Calif., whrre he worked for the Base Engineer. GEORGE LIDDLE, when last heard of, was in the Air Force stationed at Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio, where he was the Sanitary' Industrial Hygiene Engineer. 
"Herc*s an idea: Since we arcliitccts arc not too sure wliicli class to associate ourselves with, how about a small space now and then for the /\rclii­tecture Class of 1958? \\*c started with the Class of 1957 but graduated with the Class of 1958. To begin let's ask to hear from GARY ZIMMER­MAN, JOHN CHIARO, DAVE FOR/\N, TOM COOKE, FELIX AXTOXELLI, JOHX CHIHAN, and FRx\XK NEUBEK." 
From the Alumni Office: 
P\T . EDWARD W. HARDIG recently finished the clerical course at Fort Kno\, serving in tlie Army Reserve. Army Ist Lt. RONALD J. JEBA\^' finished an air mobility and transport coune in Wiesbaden, Germany, airlwme scliool. Ron is a platoon leader, now stationed in Mainz, and '^%'ifc Gail is uith him. WILLIAM H. SOISSON HI is also a Ist. Lt. and just completed officer orien­tation at Armor Scliool, Fort Knox, Ky. Formerly an attorney* u*ith Soisson & Soisson, Bill has a wife. Margaret, home in Conncns\-ilIe, Pa. .Army 1st Lt. EDWIN J. BUCKLEY also finished the course at Fort Knox in Marcli. His uife Judith lix'es in Valley Station, Ky. Air Force 1st Lt. P.AUL W. PIKELL is assigned to Larson .AFB, Wash., since his graduation from the technical course for missile guidance control officers at Shep­pard AFB, Texas, in whicli he learned inertial guidance for the Titan missile. Sp. 4/C RALPH 
C. NUSS, with the .Army Infantry Human Re­searcli Unit at Fort Benning. Ga., has won an .Army Commendation ^ledal for meritorious ser\*icc. A psj-cholog>- research specialist. Ralph authored two research memoranda that led to a revision of infantry training. After taking his master's in correctional administration with the Class, he 5er\-cd as a parole officer for the Bureau of Prisons of the U.S. Department of Justice. Finally, JOHN CLARK, former secretary of the X'cw Haven N.D. Club, was acti\'aied and sent to Germany. 
W. T, HICKEY is married, tcocliing and coacli­ing at East Paterson, X.J-, according to his par­ents. ANDREW R. aARN.AZOLA joined Cali­fornia's famous Beneficial Finance System and is now loan office manager in Napa, Calif. 
REV. ROBERT JOH.X WILLIAMSOX «-as or­dained to the priesthood by Bishop Burke of Buf­falo, N.Y., at St. Joseph's Cathedral on Marcli 17. Father Bob's First Solemn Mass was offered tlic following day in St. Paul's Church, Kenmore, X.Y. 
The New York Times noted that DICK LYNCH was tlic first of the vanquished Xew York Giants to rcacli the dressing room after a disastrous title tangle w'itli tlie Green Bay Packers — or, rather, PAUL HORNUNG (Sec 1957 Notes). It seems that Dick had been married the previous Thursday and was anxious to leave on a honc>*moon trip to Hawaii. 
1959 
Dennis M. Ncad 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

Class president JOHX H.\YWARD recently re­turned to civilization after a five-month tour in the Med; the bells will soon be ringing at St. Mary's for John. JLM KEEGAX left the service 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 
last November and is no^v employed witli the Du* 
Pont Corporation in Wilmington, Delaware; he 
plans to enter the sales field. 
JACK THOM.AS is still defending his country in the Corps as a 1st Lt. stationed in Jacksonville, N^.C, but is headed for Okinawa in June. SHAN­NON SMITH has a short tour of duty left with tlie Air Force in Columbus, O., (Lockbom AFB) and then will start job hunting in Pittsburgh or Cincinnati. 
Congratulations to Bariiara and JOHN FREY on the ne^v addition to their family. John Nerille Frei", Jr.. bom this past December 28. TOM MARQUEZ was married this past 26th of De­cember to Carolyn .Ann Gustafson of Dallas, Tex. 
SAM RIBAUDO was rcactirated in the fall (Air National Guard) call up and is spending the win­ter in Europe. PETE SALSICK is a freshman at St. Louis University Law Scliool and is working as a reporter for the St. Louis Globe. 
E. J. CUXXIXGHAM and JOHN BOYCE arc spending their third year In the Law Library at St. Louis Univ. Congratulations to Lynne and JIM SUTTER on their firet bom, John, last September. 
JOHN KROHA is engaged to a Norwegian girl but has been recuperating in Oslo after a leg fracture accident. TERRY LxVMB is in Andiorage, Alaska, u'ith a transportation company. PAT TONER is working as a chemical engineer in West X^rginia and also studying for his doctorate. HUGH MURPHY is teaching in Rome at the Notre Dame International Scliool. 
GENE DUFFY was just named as business man­ager of the Quad-City Angels of the Midwest Baseball League for 1962. Gene signed the Quad-Cit>* contract after being released by the Cliicago ^NTiitc Sox; he played with several minor league clubs the last three years. 
FRANK BUCKLEY started \rarking as a travel­ing auditor for the Sears & Roebuck Chicago office in June of '59; that November he married Penny Gibson of Canonsburg, Pa. Tlicy now have one cliild and reside in Park Forest, III. 
After graduation ROX TOTH entered the Uni­versity- of Detroit Law Scliool but later transferred to the Univereity of Michigan. In September, Ron was best man at the wedding of DOX LAURENCE, who now makes his home in Arlington, \nrginia. 
JOHN THURIN rrported to Fort Devcns, Mass., in Oct. of '59 for 18 weeks and then was sent overseas to Herzo Base in Germany. John returned to the U.S. to marr>* Catherine Ann Clanc>* (sister of DAN CL.ANC\' of '59) in St. Christopher Church in Rocky River, O.; after the wedding both returned to the Deutschland and arc now parents of their first bom, Martin Phillip. 
RON BLOOM is a Lt. j.g. aboard the Lake Champlain and was married last May; he is a graduate of OCS Scliool and now resides with his wife in North Kingston, R.I. 
Tlie Class of '59 sends sincere regrets to BILL BOHNS.ACK whose father died on Fcbruarv 3, 1962. 
RICHARD E. AMARAL, U.S. Armv — RA 11366832, Armed Forces Network, APO 757, NV'C Prospect Street, N. Dighton, Mass.; JERRY BROD­ERICK, Ass't Editor, Bell Telephone Laboratories, New York 14, N.Y., 344 Speedwell Avenue, Morris­town, New Jersey; ROBERT S. BURNS, Director, Public Relations, Chamber of Commerce, 962i4 19th Avenue S., St. Petei^urg, Florida; JOHN F. CASEY, Program Director and Announcer, Radio Station WMXG, No. 12 Linwood Apts., Olcan, Nexv York; TERRY DALY, U.S. Amiy—7tli Armv Air Recon Supt. Co., .APO 227, Xe%v- York; JAMES B. DULAX, U.S. Army—2/Lt 05508715, Hdqrs. 543 QM Group, Fort Lee, Va., 1860 Euclid Avenue, Zancsrille, Ohio; JOSEPH FOREMAN, Law stu­dent. University of Toronto, 369 Lakeshore Road, Toronto 14, Canada; WILLIAM J. HAWKINS, 
U.S.
 Na\-j-—V.A.^V^ No. II Detachment Romeo Fleet, PO San Francisco, 9700 S. Millard Av<-nue, Evei^ecn Park 42, III.; TERENCE P. KEATING, Advertising Manager, Northern Electric Co., 1805 

N.
 Oricans, Chicago, III.; JOSEPH S. MAIER, District Representative, Quaker Oats Co., 228 N. Scorillc, Oak Park, Illinois; JAMES M. MANLEY, Marines, 1st Lt. USMC—Ist Marine Div., Camp Pendleton, Calif., 200.A Columbine Street, Ocean­side, Calif.; DONALD MANELLI, Scriptwriter, Coronet Instructional Films, 321 ^Vebster Avenue, Chicago, III.; BOB PLANTE, Adv. PromoUon Man­ager, Fawcett Publications, N.Y., 3424 77th Street, Jackson Heights, N.Y.; EDWARD R. RICCIUTI, Reporter, Tlie Record, Hackcnsack, N.J., 183 Kinderkemack Road, Park Ridge, N.J.; DAVID SCHWARTZ, Civil Serxice, Newswriter for Army Ordnance Missile Command, 612 Kennan Road, 


Huntsrillc, Alabama; WILLIAM J. WHALEN. U.S. Navy, LTJG, USS Luce (DLG 7) c/o Fleet POJ Nc\v York, N.Y.; ROBERT \\1RTH, U.S. Army, Sp 4 US 5567554*, Hq & Hq Co 154, Bn USAECR, Fort Belvoir, Virginia. 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT J. JOHNSTON Ims been assistant man­ager of special projects for the Milwaukee Asso­ciation of Commerce since early 1961, and now he has been named public relations manager and gov­ernmental affairs coordinator. Bob continues as editor of tlie publication Milwaukee Commerce, turns out all press releases, and ser\'es as sccrclar>' to tlie public relations committee. He will also be secretary' to all committees concerned with government and legislation. A political srlence man. Bob was formerly an account exec with Southj Bend's MIcIitana Tclecasung Corp. (^\'XDU). 
From the mallbag: Tlic mother of HAROLD J. ^fcMANN brought us up to date on her long lost son. Hal Is working on environmental control for X'^AS.A's Project Apollo moon astronauts In Clear Lake, Tex., and has moved from Oklahoma Cit>' to Houston. *'He u-as at the Cape during Col. Glenn's flight — In the control room. His monitor showed heat-cooh'ng-prcssure-ox>-gen inside the cap­sule during the flight of Col. Glenn. When he gets all liis notes and data compiled he wilt return to Houston, where an $80 million project Is to be built. He Is a cuil serxice employee — previously spent two vears with General D\-namics." FATHER JOSEPH McGIL\TH of the Grad Scliool and In­ternational Students Affairs had a pleasant meeting witli ALBERTO PEREZ recently while passing through Quito, Ecuador. A Challenge committee­man in touch with the parents of JOHN P.THURIX informs us John is with the Army in Germany. {Address: Ist Lt., No. 05508779, AS (TC), 318th 
A.S.A. Battalion, ^\PO 66, Xrw York, X.Y.) EDWARD J. MALONE writes: "I am presently a 1st Lt., Ordnance Corps, U.S. Army, assigned as a maintenance officer to the 556th Ordnance Com­pany (Direct Support) at Ztmdorf, Germany, ten miles west of Numberg. I have been in Germany since October, 1961. Since July I had been as­signed to the Ordnance Guided Missile School at Redstone Arsenal, .Ala. ^^'llcn the Berlin buildup came last fall, I was extended from two to three years and received a port call for Germany. .Al­though I am scheduled to remain here until April. 1963, by the recent plans to release those held b^^ the buildup It seems that I vrill return to cirilian life and AG Spark Plug Div., G.M.C., Milwaukee, Wis., tills summer. .. . In spite of all the mar­riage notices In the ALUMNUS, I am still single." 
Add mllitarx- affairs: .Army 2nd Lt. NED BALD­US of Whiiefisli Bay, Wis., completed artillery officer orientation at Fort Sill, Okla., and 2nd Lt. NICHOLAS F. QUINTARELLI, lately of New­ark, where he worked at Bamberger's, finished Air­borne Division jump school at Fort Bragg, N.C. 
In academic circles: NORMAN M. SCHNURR just got an M.S. from Ohio State, and WILLLAM 
J. BITTNER an M.B.A. from Western Reserve, both in winter commencements. ^ 
1960 
John F. Gcicr 715 La Crosse Avenue Wilmettc, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: 
J. NEIL ST.ALTER has moved from AVIlmington, Del., to PIttsford, N.Y., and writes: "I am now in advertising with Eastman Kodak Co., haring moved from the business & tcdinlcal training progran^ .And my wife — Patricia Bruce Stalter (SMC, '60" 
— last October 15 brought home a fine baby girl, Maria Kathcrlne." 
At General Electric's Pittsfield, ^[ass., plant, DANIEL E. KLETTER took top honors in the oral competjtion after effective presentation training. Dan took Tfie cup with a speccli entitled "Com­petition Underground." LAWRENCE LE.ACH moved from Grand Rapids, MIcli., to South Bend the first of the year. Larry is employed at the O'Brien Corp. as an industrial engineer and reside^ at 1121 Ebeling Dr. with wife MIcheIc and daughtt% Karc>* Jane, bom August 14, 1961. 
On Janiuury 27 Miss Diane Cecilia Paul bccanie 

#ih c bride of CHARLES LEON LADNER in St. Anthony's Churcli, Butler, X.J. Botli are from Smoke Rise, X.J., Charlie having done grad work at Columbia's business school and Diane ha\-ing graduated from the College of St. Elizabeth. U^ilc in Quito, Ecuador, the University's FATHER JOSEPH McGRATH k-anied that JOSE GARCIA is taking grad work in Germany. 
LEE D. LAGESSIE can now be readied at 

R.F.D. 2, Gladu-in, Mich. Lee is a district scout executive for the Paul Bun>-an Council of the Boy Scouts of /Vnierica in Midland, Mich. In the past he has done volunteer work as an assistant scout­master and explorer advisor. Lee trained as a scouting executive last fall in New Jersey. He and his u-ifc Diane have a son Matthew, born last June. 
WILLIAM O'BRIEN BOLAND, JR., has been assigned to TTie Tranc Co.'s sales olHcc in Bethcsda, Md. THOMAS P. QUINN is a field sales engineer for the rectifier-capacitor diWsion of Fanstcel Mctal­lur^cal Corp., responsible for sales in South Chi­cago, Indiana, Kentucky- and Southwestern Chicago. Tom is headquartered in Chicago. DONALD J. DIMBERIO got an M.B.A. at Ohio State's wnter commencement in Coluinbus. 
TIic Militar>-: Army Pvt. JAMES J. ANDERSON of Cortland, N.Y., recently took the clerical course at the Armor Training Center, Fort Knox, Ky. .Vir Force 2nd Lt. EDWARD F. KNESS. married to the former Mary Garrity of Baltimore, has been assigned to Hancock Field, N.Y., since his gradu­ation from communication training at Kcesler AFB, 
PMiss. Army 2nd Lt. ROBERT E. BECKERLE finished signal officer orientation at Fort Gordon, Ga., in January-. Bob is a native of Ex-ansWIIe, Ind. His wife, Elgene, has been linng in ,\ugusta, Ga. JEROME J. DELAY III is now a 1st Lt., promoted in Gcnnany as a member of the 708tli Ordnance Battalion. Stationed in Baumholder with his wife Barbara, Jcrr>' shipped over nearly a year ago after duty at Aberdeen Pronng Ground, Md. /Vnother 1st Lt., MICILVEL R. McKEE finished jump school chemical-biological-radiological training witli the 101st Airborne at Fort Campbell, Ky., in February, where he's a platoon leader with the 502nd Infantry. Mike got an MJK, from Columbia in 1961. ROBERT J. SIMPSON was commissioned an ensign in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve at Yorkto^^Ti, Va,, in late Januarj* and was assigned 
^t o duty at tlie Coast Guard Seventh District Oificc, 
9^^:uni, Fla. In Grafenwohr, Germanv, .-Vnny 2nd Lt. P.ATRICK J. McNvVMARA of Soutli Bend has been participating in winter training exercises. Pat is a platoon leader in the 3rd Quartermaster Battalion of the 3rd Armored Division. 
1961 
Nick PalihDich 
34 Dartmouth Road 
West Orange, N. J. 

Before gelling into the .-Mumni news for this issue oi the ALUMNUS. 1 would first like to explain the reason for the extreme brevity of this article. I have been called into the Army for six montlis of active duly, commencing Jan. 15. 1962. Tlie deadline on this article was set on Feb. 15, but unfortunately at this time I will be in the midst of basic training, lliis nccessitaled my writing the column over a month in adv*ance, tlius causing the shortage of Alumni news. 
BERNIE DOBRtVNSKI, area representative for the state of PennsyK-aina, infonncd me that he is currently rooming with MIKE KELLY, fonnerly of Walsh Hall, at the University of Virginia. Both 
^kni le^ are in the graduate school of law. DAVE 
^ ^1IcDONALD, who originally planned to attend Virginia Law Scliool, is now studying drama at Yale. Otiicr graduates from the Class of '61 at \arginla, are TERRY MARTIN and DOUG SVENDSON, bolh in llic scIiool of law, and JOHN SMITH in the medical scliool. 
DAVE "THEOLONIUS" >VILLIAMS is working on his master's degree at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. As a sidelight he is also doing extensive rescarcli in the field of jazz. This in part explains the "Twist" meetings that ^ave and his roommate, GEORGE "MICKEY" VORIS, also in tlic graduate school of business at Chicago, have been conducting recently at tlie University. NEDDY GR/XNT, former Chicago Club President, is attending Northwestern Law Scliool. JIM MADDEN, TOM RIORD.VN, and GEORGE LESNICK are all in medical school at Cardinal Stritch School of Medicine in Chicago. PETE DOR/VN is studying law at the University of Syracuse. 
FRANK "CHICK" ANNESE has become engaged to Dominica Miskiew. When Chick sees how I murdered his bride-to-be's last name. I will prob­ably lose an area representative for the state of New York. I received an invitation to the wedding of BOB HETZLER and Harriet /\sman, formerly of St. Mary's. Tlie wedding date is Feb. 3, at the Churcli of the Holy Spirit in Louis\iIIe, Kentucky. Unfortunately Uncle Sam has seen fit to make it impossible for me to attend. 
JOHN McNAMAR.\, JIM NACK, and JOHN TULLY arc all rooming togctlier at the University of Michigan Law Scliool. BOB BATISTE and BILL H^VRA are also studying law at Micliigan. RAY TRANCE is working on a master's degree in communications at Boston Universit>*, after rcceinng an assistantship to study there. GRxVHAM "SPILCE" WERNER is currently employed by **Unclc Sam" in California. In June, lie intends to marr>' a Nortliwestcm co-ed, Sally Richter, and eventually settle down in Wisconsin. 
JOEL HAGGARD, Northwestern area rep., in­formed me that GEORGE MACK married Janeth McHugh last summer in Portland, Oregon. He is now working for WILLLVM P. HUTCHINSON, an accounting firm in Portland. TOM HOB^VN married Maureen Pearson in Everett, Wasliington, last September. He is now in a management train­ing program for J. C. Penny in Seattle. TODD EMMxVNUEL is in his first year of medical school at St. Louis University. 
TIic brenty of this article afl'ords me an excellent cliance of re\-ie^ving once again the area representa­tives and their current addresses: I) Nc\v- England — Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, Connecticut, .Massadiusctts, Rhode Island — MIKE FARRtVR, 30 Dcerfield Ave., Waterbury, Connecticut; 2) New-York State (excluding New York City) — FRANK "CHICK" ANNESE, 702 Morlando Drive, Endicott, New York; 3) Nc%v Jersey and New York City — NICK PALIHNICH, 3i Dartmouth Road, West Orange, New Jersey; 4) Pcnns\-K-ania — BERNIE DOBRANSKI, 101 Aft. Lebanon Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. or 115 Daxis Hall, Nc\vcombe Hall Station, 
U. of Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.; 5) Southeast — North Carolina, Soutli Carolina, Tennessee, Mary­land, West Virginia, Kentucky, \^rginia — JAY KILROY, 326 Colville Road, Qiarlotte, North Carolina; 6) Far South — ^fississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida — JOE LIBBY, 442 Royal Palm Way. Palm Beadi, Florida; 7) Ohio — BOB BREWItV, 3452 W. 159 St., Cleveland, Ohio; 
8) Illinois (excluding Chicago area) — JERRY ^^cN^VMARl\, 1204 W. Cerro Gordo, Decatur, Illinois; 9) Chicago Area — TO.M BR^\NNIG/\N, 531 Cleveland Ave., South Bend, Indiana or 5321 South May, Chicago, Illinois; 10) North Central — Wisconsin, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska — JOHN MxVY, 1620 North Main St., Racine, Wisconsin; 11) Northwest — Washington. Oregon, Montana, Idalio, Nev-ada, Utali, Wvoming 
— JOEL HAGGARD, 416 College, Norman,'Okla­homa or 846 East 83rd. Seattle, Washington; 12) California — JIM KxWAL, P.O. Box 2263, Stan­ford, California. 
I still need representation in several states. The unrepresented areas arc: Michigan, Indiana; Mid-Central — Iowa. Missouri, Kansas, Colorado —; South Central and Soutliwest — Arkansas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona. Any volunteers for area representatives in any of these sections will be gratefully accepted. 
I still have not covered the entire class in those articles AvTitten so far. .Any /Uumn! news can be sent to any of the above listed area reps or directly to me. In either case it will be gladly accepted. 
From tlic Almnni Office: 
From Rocliester, Minn., comes word that Ensign TOM MEUJY was commissioned Feb. 19 at New­port, R.I., supply corps, U.S. Nav-al Reserve, and is now stationed at Supply Corps Scliool at Athens, Ga. Touring South and Central /Vmcrica, FATHER JOSEPH McGRATH had pleasant meetings in Bogota, Colombia, with ENRIQUE SILVA, in Quito, Ecuador, with ERNESTO ITURRALDE, and in Mexico City with ARMANDO LOIZAG.A. TIIC mother of JOSEPH R. LIBBY in Palm Beaclt, Fla., asked an N.D. committeeman to advise the ofiice that he Is in the Army and to ask class­mates to contact him if they are in the Baltimore area. His address: 2nd Lt., 055-3828, Student De­tachment, Ft. Holabird, Baltimore, Md. PATRICK 
C. WOODWARD informed the office that he worked in a bank at home until last October when he entered the Army and took basic training at Fort Carson, Colorado. .Assigned back to Carson as a finance dispersion specialist in the finance and ac­counting office, where he expects to be for about a year. A former resident of Denver, he kno^vs about alumni activity there, but he inquired about the UCTvly formed N.D. Club of Colorado Springs, only five miles from the fort. 
At Fort Lee, Va., 2nd Lt. LOUIS P. NEEB re­cently completed the petroleum supply course. Lou hails from South Bend. .Army 2nd Lt. JOHN F. GUERRE of Gary, Ind., Avas assigned as assistant finance and accounting officer at Fort Wayne, MifJi. 2nd Lt. MARTIN A. DECRE of Ehnhurst, N.Y., has been assigned to the .Army Chemical Center, ^faryland, as a member of the inaterici cmnmand. At Fort Monmouth, N.J., 2nd Lt. JOHN J. DIX­SON of Jamaica, N.Y., finished officer orientation at the Signal School. At Fort Benning, Ga., 2nd Lt. DAVID H. KELSEY of Santa Fc, N.M., com­pleted infantry officer orientation. At Fort Knox, Ky., 2nd Lt. JOHN P. SMITH took orientation at the Armor School. John's wife, Sanda, lives in Fort Thomas, Ky. 2nd Lt. JOHN R. BOWLING, JR., of Chicago took signal officer tnunlng at Fort' Gordon, Ga., as did 2nd Lt. VINCENT J. NASO, JR., of Reading, Pa. 
At Fort Lee, Va., 2nd Lt. JAMES F. LEE, Evergreen Park, III., took the petroleum su[^ly course. At Fort Knox, Ky., two others completed officer orientation at the Armor School; 2nd Lt. JAMES J, CADELU, Fort Smith, Ark.; and 2nd Lt. BRIAN J. SULLIVAN, Shre^^^bury, Mass. At Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind., Pvt. LEO J. ^V'ACHTER, JR., finished the finance procedures course and entered the disbursement speaaliat course. Formerly employed by Pcnn Alto Bottling ^Vorks, Ina, Leo took his basic at Fort Jackson, S.C., leaving his wife Barbar;i back in Altoona, Pa. 2nd Lt. THOMAS E. L.ARKIN, JR., has been assigned as administrative officer of the Transfer Station at Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn, N.Y., after completing adjutant general officer orientation ac Benjamin Harrison. Tom hails from Buck Hills Falls, Pa., and formerly worked as a hytlrological field assistant with the U.S. Dcpt. of the Interior in Albany, N.Y. Finally, Air Force 2nd Lt. JOHN 
J. DOHERTY of Manhasset. N.Y., is in pilot training at Laughlin .AFB, Texas, flying T-37 and T-33 jets. 
Law Class of 1961 
John N. Morcland Assistant County Attorncy WapcUo County Court House Ottumwa, Iowa 

Tlie first item of news concerns a lapse of memory I had re tlie whereabouts of JACK Mr\NDERS. I heard from the grapevine that he is counsel for the Iowa Insurance Commission in Dcs ^foincs. Called him a couple of times at home and the office, but fuiuldn't make contact. At any rate. Jack is keeping the Republicans honest in the state house, and has set up bachelor quarters in the plush Wakonda district of Des Afoincs. 
Got an early hour call from MIKE O'BRIEN and TONY BONTVIWELL on January 1, 1962. The call was placed in Springfield, Illinois, and the operator WOLS supposed to reverse the charges, but didn't, so the laugh is on them. Mike is now assistant attome>' general for the State of Illinois, with offices in Springfield. Tony was on his way into service, to be stationed in Georgia. His official title is Lt. Frog Bonniwcll, U.S.A.. Y.I.T.B. 
A note from SOAPY WEBBER told of passing the Michigan bar. Also heard that LARRY HOWARD was successful in Michigan. Got this news \ia JIM PHELPS, who heard from another Micliigan conqueror, TOM McNISH. 
ED 0*TOOLE was married before Christmas in Chicago so our belated congratulations to him and his bride. Attending dignitaries: Flyfaoy TIGER BIES, U.S.A.F., who flew in from duty with the J.A.G.; ROD METTE, JOHN DUNN, and others. 
GARY HUMBLE is in Kalamazoo rather than Clearwater, Micliigan, as previously reported. Gary is associated with Rlalph Birkhold, 328 Henrietta Street. 
Remember that \t^cn discussing alliteration in legal captions, the FREE FISHERMAN OF FAVERSHAM should be mentioned as among the classics. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, April-May, 1962 47 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
March 15, 1962 
FELLOW ALUMNI: 

WHE N I WAS honored with election to the Alumni Board two years ago, I was surprised and at first disturbed by the changes which have occurred at Notre Dame since my pre-World War II student and coaching days. 
Gone are many of the quiet, personal touches that made Notre Dame a home away from home: the relatively small student body, daily exchanges with students of other classes and faculty, sit-down meals gracefully served, and a rather leisurely attitude toward studies. 
Now a sense of urgency pervades all. A larger, more sophisticated student body pursues the academic life with zest. Graduate schools and science majors abound and even set the tone of the University. And it seems to me that religious life has deepened. Although most of us made per­functory use of our missals, the liturgy was a strange, esoteric exercise for the religious. Now students attend dialogue Masses and sing the Ordinary of the Mass in Gregorian. They give every sign of forming an advance guard in the liturgical movement. 
Even athletics have moved from the center of the stage to a less conspicuous spot. They haven't been downgraded in any sense. The administration is still convinced that the athletic tradition is a prime, even necessary, ingredient in Notre Dame life, but the emphasis has been modified and, I think, properly so. 
These changes had their inception following World War II, which shook Notre Dame and other schools out of their complacency. They are healthy changes and essential if Notre Dame is to become a fountainhead of Christian influence so desperately needed by a pallid, confused world. 
Now to get to alumni affairs in a few words. The University had reason to be proud of its alumni last year when Ford Foundation, in selecting Notre Dame as one of five private universities deserving special financial help, assigned as one of the chief reasons the extensive and active support given her by her alumni. The Ford people take this as a sign of genuine vitality. 
Recently that opinion was verified by the large financial support given the current Foundation drive by our alumni. But there is one blue note: Although the figures of giving are high, barely half of our alumni had carried this burden as of last January. We have a few more weeks to get the percentage up, and I exhort all of you to make one last push in this regard. 
Our talented President, Father Hesburgh, recently remarked in an article in America that a university "is a place to fit men of the world for the world." Notre Dame is busily engaged in this very business, but there is much work to be done and the time schedule tightens. 
As your elected representatives, we of the Alumni Board are proud to have a small, but significant, role in this exciting program. Sincerely, 

"T^jt/x 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEV, JR., '38 President 






