The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
•^•toMKBHBAiM %>v.^-J!T^.-*r-i..u-v-'.-^it.-;j,jr-?->',---i-.H«\K'^^v:,'>-v^ 
"^ 

NCTCE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. 25  JUNE, 1947  No. 3  
m  .•asSSS^^'<r€^Ww• '^^^^m^^•S-.-i  The Governors'3  Issue  
r  
\ !  ,­ V ^'^S'.pr^, :t.^^  

flt't 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Board of Govemors—Alumni Association 
Harry G. Hogan, '04, Interim Qiairman 
State 

ALABAMA 
ARIZONA 
ARKANSAS 
CALIFORNIA 
COLORADO 
CONNECTICUT 
DELAWARE 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
FLORIDA 
GEORGIA 
IDAHO 
ILLINOIS 
INDIANA 
IOWA 
KANSAS 
KENTUCKY 
LOUISIANA 
MAINE 
MARYLAND 
MASSACHUSETTS 
MICHIGAN 
MINNESOTA 
MISSISSIPPI 
MISSOURI 
MONTANA 
NEBRASKA 
NEVADA 
NEW HAMPSHIRE 
NEW JERSEY 
NEW MEXICO 
NEW YORK 
NORTH CAROLINA 
NORTH DAKOTA 
OHIO 
OKLAHOMA 
OREGON 
PENNSYLVANIA 
RHODE ISLAND 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
SOUTH DAKOTA 
TENNESSEE 
TEXAS 
UTAH VERMONT VIRGINIA 
WASHINGTON 
WEST VIRGINIA WISCONSIN 
WYOMING 
Foreisn 
ARGENTINA AND URUGUAY BOLIVIA BRAZIL 
CANADA 
CANAL ZONE CHILE CUBA PERU PUERTO RICO 


Alumni Governor 
RAYMOND E. FAHERTY, 14 WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, 39 MATTHEW H. ROTHERT. 14 THOMAS H. HEARN. 'IS ROBERT A. DICK.-29 JOHN F. ROBINSON, 78 
M. HARRY MILLER. '10 LEO F. MULLIN. Ml LESTER FOLEY. 14 MICHAEL F. WIEDL, 34 THOMAS F. JONES. JR.. '29 JOHN E. CASSIDY. '17 WILLIAM J. MOONEY. MS HENRY C. WURZER. 75 DANIEL J. WELCHONS. -30 FRANK B. BLOEMER. 72 ARTHUR R. CARMODY, '15 JOHN U. RILEY. '17 
E. BRADLEY BAILEY. '22 JOHN F. SAUNDERS. -31 rOHN E. MOORE. "11 DR. JOHN M. CULLIGAN. '15 LAWRENCE H. HENNESSY. 77 JOSEPH B. McGLYNN. '12 DR. RICHARD C. MONAHAN. -98 GERALD J. McGINLEY, 76 
E. P. CARVILLE. W MAXIME GAUTHIER 79 RAYMOND A. GEIGER. 32 
A. R. HEBENSTREIT. 'II 
E. A. BERKERY. 77 EDWARD J. KOONTZ. 32 WILLIAM L. NEFF. 79 HUGH M. O'NEILL. '17 JOSEPH A. MORAN. 32 WILLIAM C. SCHMITT. '10 JOHN F. McMAHON. 78 JOHN F. McKIERNAN. '34 JOHN L. JOYCE. '41 
T. C. KASPER. 71 GALVIN HUDSON. '15 JAMES P; SWIFT. 74 PHILIP J. PURCEm 35 EDWARD G. McCLALLEN. 31 ANSELM D. MILLER. 75 EMMETT a LENIHAN. '17 ARTHUR P. HUDSON. "95 ROBERT L. HAMILTON. 34 THOMAS G. KASSIS. 31 
CHARLES H. LITTY. 34 HARRY E. KENNEDY. 31 ARTHUR L. DENCHFIELD. 79 FRANK J. SHAUGHNESSY, '06 JOSEPH H. HARRINGTON. 39 ENRIQUE ROSSELOT. 70 
C. C. FITZGERALD. "94 JOHN J. KINSELLA. '34 PAUL F. McMANUS. 34 

City 

Bitmin^am (newspaper advertising) Phoenix (lawyer, former NJ) . track coach) 
Camden (fumituie manufacturer) Los Angeles (lawyer) Denver (lawyer) Hartford (state selective service director) Wilmington (legal counsel du Pont) Washington (business) Jacksonville (lumber) Atlanta (industrial journals) 
Boise (lawyer) Peoria (lawyer, former attorney-general) Indianapolis (wholesale drugs) Davenport (prendent, Blackhawk Hotels) Hutchinson (business) Louisville (food distributor) Shreveport (oil) Portland (advertising) Baltimore (public relations) 
. Boston (food importing) Detroit (retired manufacturer) St. Paul (physician) Vicksburg (insurance, real estate) East St. Louis (III.) (lawyer). Butle (physician) Ogallala (lawyer) 
Reno (lawyer, former governor and U.S . Manchester (internal revenue) Newark (manufacturer) Albuquerque (engineer) New York City (bank vice-president) Asheville (dairy farms) Mandan (superintendent of schools) 
 senator) 
€» 

Cleveland (president, trucking corporation) . 
Tulsa (lawyer) Portland (president, steel plant) 
Pittsburgh (public relations) 
Providence (lieuL-govemor of R. I.) 
Tucapau (textile milling) 
Aberdeen (internal revenue) 
Memphb (manufacturer) 
Dallas (lawyer) 

Salt Lake City (insurance) 
Rutland (lawyer) 

Roanoke (manufacturer) Seattle (lawyer) Charleston (lawyer, former judge) 
Radne (manufacturer) Cheyenne (merchant) 

Montevideo, Uruguay (Supt. - Singer Sewing Machine Co.) La Paz. Bolivia (Exporter) Recife, Brazil (Supt. - Singer Se%ving Machine Co.) Montreal West, P. Q., Canada (president - International league) Ancon, C. Z- (Deputy Slupping Commissioner) Santiage, Chile (^^'t Mgr. - Chile Telephone Co.) Habana. Cuba (Engineer Cc Constructor) , Lima. Peru (Ronington Rand Peruana) ' San Juan (importer) 
C^ 

The Board of Covemors has been divided into three major Committees: Executive, Organizaion, and Finance, The Executive Committee vilt meet at Notre Dame on July 25-26, the other Committees at a later date, and the entire Board of Covemors will convene in late Seplemher. %1 A permanent chairman will be elected at that time, and by-laws adopted. 





The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This masazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered aa aeeood da n matter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the PostoSice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Hember of the American Ahmmi CbuidL 
James E. Armstrong. '25. Editor; William B. Dooley. '28. Managing Editor 
Vol. 25 JUNE. 1947 No.3 
Governors' Meeting Features Reunion 
Three Days Are Highlishted by Sessions Given Over to New Organization 
in Alumni Association; Class Reunions Return to Pre-War Staturer Alumni 
of 50 Years and More Honored; 1922 Class Sets New High in Achievement 
Commencement, 1947, was highlighted by the atmosphere of achievement at­tending the organization of the Alumni Association program under the expanded system of State and Foreig;n Governors, and by the return to pre-World War II effectiveness in the Class Reunions. 
Throughout the entire weekend, Presi­dent Harry G. Hogan, the 14 State Gov­ernors who came to the campus, the Alumni Board members present, gave unsparingly of their time in meetings to develop details of the new program. On the strength of this early getting to­gether of the men who could voice coast-to-coast reactions, the progress' of the new prog;ram was greatly accelerated and the confidence of the Alunrni Board and the University in the project was 
IP confirmed. (The-details of organization are summarized in a separate story, and many'ofthe broader approaches are con­tained in tiie Alumni Banquet addresses of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, and Harry G. Hogan reprinted in this issue). 
It will not be possible in the space at hand to give proper credit to the many men in the Classes who made the Re­unions a success, or to the men on the campus who contributed to the success of the weekend for alumni, particularly. It should mean much that, with a Senior Class of 713, there was time and facil­ities available for all of the other phases of the program. 
Residence halls were ready for return­ing alumni on Thursday night, to accom­modate the early arrivals who took ad­vantage of the Memorial Day holiday. 
• And by the time of the Memorial Mass on Friday morning celebrated by Father Cavanaugh for the dead of the World Wars, registration was in full swing. This year a registration booth at the main campus entrance was utilized' to make alumni registration and hall distri­bution easier. 
Relaxing alumni got out their golf clubs. The State Governors swung in­stead into their first session at 11 o'clock on Friday, with members of the Uni­
COVER PICTURES 

versity administration and the Altimni Board sitting in. 
Weather moved the big 25-Year Re­union of the Class of 1922 from the pro­posed Diamond Lake site into the Town Club, South Bend, but seemed to have no effect on the ultimate fact that, with the President's Luncheon on Saturday, the Class enjoyed the biggest Reunion pro­gram, with the largest percentage of re­turn (see pictures and Class News) in the recent years of Class Reunion his­tory. 
The alumni of 1897 and earlier years were honored guests at a dinner on Fri­day night, providing some of the most inspiring Notre Dame spirit of the week­end. No one could listen to these gfradn­ates of more than half a century ago, or look at the record which their ronaiks brought out, and fail to realize that No­tre Dame's greatness is the result of long planning, and sound training, with re­sulting loyalty and rich alumni threads woven through the fabric of American life. This small but distinguished gmrtp 
Top Bow—LEFT: Qorence McCabe. '22. Jim Hayes. '17. and Leo Mullin. '11. (bam left) ragisteiing at campus ontrano. CENTER: Baccalaureate Mass. BIGHT: IGchael I. Ney. '97 (leit). and lim McMahon, '17, registnting in Ahnmn Office. 
Second Bow—LEFT: CommencemenL BIGHT: Alumni Banquet 
Third Bow—LEFT: Bediaenls of the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws, with Father John Cavanongh: from left I. A. O'Shoughnessy, lay trustee: Mother M. Bose Elizabeth. C.S.C Superior General of the Sisters of the Hety Oesa; Most BOT. Law­rence L. Groner. C.S.C. bishop of Dacca. India: General George C. Kenney; BL Ber. Msgr. Mmiiam L. Newton. Tlie late B«T. Hugh 01>onneU. C.S.C.. former president, also received an honorary degree but was tinable to be present at the CoBmencemcBl. 
BIGHT: The 1922 reunioneis who traveled farthest io attend the reunion, with Father Cavanaugh: bom lefL THnce Hanrohan. Canal Zone. Luis Bustamente, Colombia, S. A., and Charlie Hirschbuld. Portland. Ore. 
' ' Bottom row-^ead table at Alumni Banquet From left: Mr. O'Shaughnessy, General KenneT. Father Cavanangh. Father Bobert H. Sweeney, toastmaster. Harry G. Hogan. Father Thomas A. Sleiner. Bishop iSraner. Paiiidc E. BuAe, 11. Janiea J. Ceon«T' '93. Martin I. Costello. '97. Arthur W. Stace. '98. Father John H. Murphy. Hugo C. Bothert '87. Frank P. Kensea. TT. Mr. N«T OB^ bichard M Kerwin.'88. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

of men (see pictures and Class News) attended the 25-Year Luncheon and the Alumni Banquet as honored guests. 
The Class of 1917, with a 30-Year party at B. J. VoU's nearhy home, was running the 1922 Class close competition for enthusiasm, and attendance. 
The Class of 1927 occupied the Bronze-wood Eoom of the LaSalle on Friday night, for its 20th, while the Oliver housed the well-attended loth of 1932, the 10th of 1937, and 5th of 1942. 
Saturday 
After the Memorial Mass for Deceased" 

Alumni in Sacred Heart Church, the 
State Governors resumed their session. 
The Class of 1947 made its first Com­
mencement appearance in cap and gown 
for its Last Visit and the Class Day Ex­
ercises and Award of Prizes. 
At noon a full faculty dining room 

greeted Father Cavanaugh at his lun­
cheon for the 25-Year Class and guests. 
Coach Clarence "Jake" Kline had at­

tempted to brighten both Friday and 
Saturday afternoons mth baseball on 
Cartier Field, losing the Friday game to 
Western Michigan and the weatherman, 
but coming back on Saturday against 
the same opponent for a victorious con­
clusion to an outstanding season. 
The Alunmi Banquet 
With a head table featuring the Gold­

en Jubilee Reunioners, the joint admin­
istration heads of the University, the 
Alumni Association and the Congrega­
tion of Holy Cross (U. S. Province), 
Bishop Lawrence Graner, C.S.C, D.D., 
alumnus bishop of Dacca, newly conse­
crated, L A. O'Shaughnessy, and General 
Kenney the Commencement speaker, 
more than 600 alumni listened to the sig­
nificant program of the Alumni Associa­
tion for the University as outlined by 
President Harry G. Hogan and Father 
John Cavanaugh. Rev. Robert H. Sween­
ey, C.S.C, alumni liaison officer and ex­
ecutive assistant to Father Cavanaugh, 
was toastmaster. 
, (Alumni Banquet texts are reprinted in full in this issue of the ALU.MNUS). 
The Glee Club, without its director, Daniel Pedtke, (convalescing from an at­tack of rheumatic fever after the East-em tour of the Club) gave an outstand­ing Saturday night concert in Washing­ton Hall, suplementing the always popu­lar Band concert of Friday night. 
Sunday Sunday was, as always, the day of the Class of 1947. 
A dismal downpour altered the plans for the academic procession from the Main Building to the Drill Hall, but the Lawa-ence Graner, C.S.C, D.D., and the eloquent scripture scholar, Monsignor William L. Ne^vton, S.S.D,, delivered the baccalaureate sermon (contained in this issue of the ALUSINUS in full). 
The 1947 Flag, presented in a renew­al of Washington Birthday exercises this year, was blessed, but the traditional procession bowed to the elements. 
A clearer afternoon found a standing-room-only crowd on hand for the award­ing of the 713 degrees and the outstand­ing address of General Geoii;e C Ken­ney, U.S.A. (also contained in complete text in this issue of the ALUMNUS) . 
GOVERNOR PLAN APPROVED 

"The program proposed by Presi­dent Harry Hogan and the new Alimmi Board is marvelous. It will implement the progress o{ Notre Dame and enable Notre Dame alumni to contribute the religious and civic leadership which the Alumni Association has been urging in its program through the years. The combination of practical support for Notre Dame with the mutual in­tellectual and spiritual advancement marks a new high in Notre Dame alumni life." (Thomas F. Byrne, hon­orary president of the Alumni Asso­ciation) 
In a renewal of its traditional Sunday luncheon in formal organization, the No­tre Dame monogram alumni met and elected Joseph Boland of South Bend as national president to succeed Joseph M^^ Brandy of Ogdensburg, N. Y. Plans for the enlarging of the program of the or­ganization were announced and discus­sed, to be put into effect within the year. 
There were many features of the week­end, faculty open house, reception for parents of '47 graduates, and others, which cannot be detailed. It must suffice to say that the 102nd Commencement of Notre Dame was in keeping with the rich tradition of its century-old pattern. 


FACULTY AWARD TO GURIAN 
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Po­litical Science and nationally prominent authoi'ity on Russia, has been named the 1947 recipient of the Notre Dame Lay Faculty Award for distinguished service during the 1946-47 schoolyear at Notre Dame, it was announced on June 1 at the 102nd Commencement. 
The prize, which carries a $500 purse, is awarded annually by the Alumni As­sociation to the outstanding member of the faculty at Notre Dame. Dr. Gurian also is editor of the Revieiv of Politics, which is published at Notre Dame. 
A recognized authority on bolshevistic and fascistic trends. Dr. Gurian came to Notre Dame in 1937 from Germany via Switzerland. One time editor of the Co­logne Volkszeitung and a lectux'er in the School of Politics in Berlin, he was forced to flee to Switzerland in 1934 be­cause of his antipathy towards Hitler-ism, expressed in his book Hitler and the Christians and other published works. 
Baccalaureate Mass was celebrated there Bemie Voll (in the lower right hand coiner) wo>, as in 1937 ond 1942. host to the for a capacity congregation by Most Rev. class of 1917 at a party in his home on Friday night. May 30. 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
Organization Program Outlined For Clubs 
President Hosan Sets Up Plan to Coordinate and Supplement Work of All Notre Dame Clubs; Financial Need Is Key to All Phases of University Operations; Governors Are Appointed in U. S. and Abroad; Executive Committee Named 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association is at present intensively engaged in the organization of a program which will mark a milestone in the life of Notre Dame to which both University and alumni may point as the greatest in the history of the institution. 
That is a broad statement, with 105 years of history and many splendid Q achievements behind us. 
And it is difficult to picture, on two counts. The first count is that the blue­print—^no matter how confident we are of its merits—is never as attractive or as clear as the building which follows. 
The second count, and most immediate­ly regrettable, is the inability to put down here for you the endless hours of planning—the deliberations of the Alum­ni Board; the visits from coast to coast and at the University of President Harry Hogan; the daily phone calls to keep the Alumni Office and the Association's administration in harmonious operation; the meetings with Father Cavanaugh 
and his assistants; the meetings with the Lay Trustees, the many letters between President Hogan and the Clubs, the Alumni Board and others involved in the early developments; the early research necessary to provide an intelligent back­drop for the new program—etc. 
So will you simply, as Notre Dame men, accept now a brief summarization of the new program and its purposes. Details will be supplied in the months and the years ahead as sound perform­ance justifies what we are all convinsad at present is the road map of Notre Dame's destiny. 
1.
 Harry G. Hogan, meeting with the Alumni Board in January as its newly elected president, analyzed the Univer­sity and Association programs and pro­posed that the financial program is the key to all the other phases included. 

2.
 After visiting in New York, after consulting his fellow alumni in his home town of Fort Wayne, after talking with Father Cavanaugh, he outlined an organ­ization of alumni by States, under alum­ni governors. 

3.
 The State Governor is set up to co­


ordinate and supplement the work of the scattered Notre Dame Clubs. Club juris­diction remains intact, and the Clubs have been the first to recognize and sanc­tion the far-reaching progress under the new plan. (The new program, with a Governor in each State, brings a national geographic distribution not previously attained.) 
4.
 On a previously planned trip to South America, the new Alumni Presi­dent, projecting the Governor idea into broader spheres, appointed Notre Dame alumni governors in the Latin American countries he visited, and sowed the seed for much constructive work throughout the hemisphere. 

5.
 On President Hogan's return to the United States in April, he began the in­tensive work of appointing, in conjunc­tion with Father Cavanaugh and the University departments, the State Gov­ernors. 


Each Club was first asked to suggest State Governor nominees. 
The prompt acceptance of the ultimate 
Some of the newly-appointed govemois of the Alumni Association met with officers of the Umveraity and with executives of the Association in a special session on Saturday morning. May 31. Front row, left to right: Golvin Hudson, '15, governor of Ten­nessee; Rev. John H. Murphy, CS.C, '35, vice-president: Harry G. Hogan, '04, president of the Association: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh. CS.Cu '23, president; Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, CS.C, '30, executive assistant to the prendent: John E. Moore, *11. governor of Michigan: James E. Armstrong, '25, secretary of the Association. Bade row: Dan D. Halpin, '31, a director of the Association: Harold 
E. Duke, '30, director: Robert L. Hamilton, '34, governor of Wisconsin: Thomas J. Jones, '29, governor of Idaho; Joseph B. McGlynn, '12, governor of Missouri: Leo F. Mullin, '11, governor of the District of Columbia: John E. Cassidy, '17. governor ol Illinais: lavda F. Buckley, '28, director; William R. Dooley, '26, assistant secretary of the Association: Thomas F. Byrne, '28, honorary preddent of the Association. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

assignment by Governors in all of the 48 States by June 1 was the most significant tribute to the merit of the new plan and th^ existing enthusiastic Notre Dame loyalty. 
G. A preliminary meeting of the Gov­ernors at the June Commencement re­sulted in the formation of a Board of Governors, with President Hogan as the interim chairman, J. E. Ai-mstrong as the interim secretary. 
7.
 President Hogan was empowered to appoint an executive committee, and plans are now under way for a meeting of that committee at Notre Dame' on July 25-26. 

8.
 The Commencement meeting also clarified the path of the new program under two fundamental headings: 


a.
 The organization of City Commit­tees of Five, to be designated Public Re­lations Committees (under Club proce­dure where Clubs exist, as provided in the Manual of Club Organization, or Tinder the State Governor in non-Club cities). These Committees will go about the intensive job of cultivating the non-alumni friends of Notre Dame and fur­ther educating alumni in the community, interpreting through regular contact from the campus the progress and prob­lems of Notre Dame. 

b.
 The translation of this public rela­tions job of education, and friend-making, into the logical corrollai-y of seeking from the communities the finan­cial support necessai-y for the University to realize its opportunities and its obliga­tions. 


9.
 The Alumni Fund, and the Depart­ment of Public Relations, will continue to contribute their progressive aid to the University, but the urgent needs of the University, the immediate postwar op­portunities, and the ti-emendous national potential of friendship and support un­touched by present programs, dictated some immediate channel for quick but sound and dignified expansion. 

10.
 Temporary bulletins have been sent periodically to a mailing list consisting of the Alumni Board, the Board of Gov­ernors, the Alumni Club Presidents, the Lay Trustees of the University and the University administration. 


a. Fundamental in the new plan is, of course, the complete integration of all the agencies and individuals concerned with advancing the intei'ests of Notre Dame. 
11. Alumni will, under the new pro­gram, constitute a committee of the whole to advance Notre Dame's interests. 
The new program vail be based on a thorough analysis of Notice Dame's finan­cial history—the brilliant record of a hundred years of doing so much with so little. It will analyze the changes in structure which no longer permit this type of progress. It will present an analysis of the comparative position of Notre Dame's finances in relation to that of comparable institutions. 
CLASSES VOICE ENTHUSIASM 

"The Class of 1942 falls in line on enthusiastically endotsing the new Aliimni Program ... " (Vraiiam E. "Scoop" Scanlon, Class Secretary) 
"May I voice my enthusiastic ap­proval and sincere endorsement of the new alumni program just initi­ated by the President and Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. I hope to do all that I can to help in the attainment of the methods and objectives as outlined by Father Covonaugh and President Harry Hogan at the alumni banquet. With prayers and every good wish for success..." (Rev. John MacNomara, Secretary of the Class of 1897) 
It will also provide alumni with a pic­ture of the Notre Dame of the future as projected by Father Cavanaugh and his administration—^the fundamentals which will remain, the buildings necessary to. house the University as projected, the faculty necessary to staff the projected progi^am, and the fellowships and schol­arships necessary to provide the student personnel desired in the projected insti­tution. 
It is President Hogan's belief—en­dorsed by Father Cavanaugh, the Lay Trustees who have discussed the pro­gram, the Governors appointed, and the many Club officers, and individual alumni contacted—^that Notre Dame must go­fonvard under this new program, or ad­mit that it cannot meet the challenge of the present. That is all the Notre Dame man needs to know, they all agree, to give the new program full support. 
LUNCHEON AT ACS MEETING 

Thirty-two alumni of the University attended a luncheon on April 16 in the Ritz-Carleton Hotel, Atlantic City, as a feature of the convention of the Ameri­can Chemical Society. Arrangements were made by Dr. James F. Kex-win, of Smith, Kline and French Laboratories, Philadelphia. 
Chief speaker at the luncheon was Dr. 
Charles Price, head of the Chemistry De­ ^]  
partnient at Notre Dame, who discussed  
briefly the present status of the depart­ 
ment, with particular reference to the  
various grants-in-aid and fellowships  
now available. Other Notre Dame fac­ 
ulty members present were Dr. Kenneth  
N. Campbell, Dr. Christopher L. Wilson  
and Dr. Milton Burton.  
Registering at the luncheon were the  
following, in addition to the faculty mem­ 
bers: Paul Chaput, W. S. Jacobs, Tom  
Degnan, Frank Pollnow, Rev. Joseph S.  
McGrath, C.S.C, J. J. Verbanc, Frank  
J. Sowa, Norbert F. Toussaint, James F.  
Kei-win, John E. Reith, Fritz J. Nagel,  
R. D. McCoi-mick, Daniel J. Pflaum, W.  
S. Calcott, Robert J. Thomas, Charles  
A. Young, H. L. Wunderly, William  
Murray, W. J. Metrailer, J. F. Froning,  
E. A. Bried, J. P. Fitzpatrick, C. 0.  W  
Kroncke, Jr., A. A. Baum, C. A. Wig­ 
gins, Sister Doloretta (Villa Maria Col­ 
lege, Brie, Pa.), Donald B. Killian, Ir- 
Tvin J. Schaffner, John T. Doyle, A. 0.  
Zoss, C. J. Kelly, and C. F. Irivin.  
Dr. Frank J. Sowa is making arrange­ 
ments for a similar meeting of Notre  
Dame alumni to be held in connection  
with the ACS convention in New York  
City in September.  
At the Atlantic City gathering. Dr.  
Price presented a paper embodying the  
latest discoveries in the preparation of  
artificial cortical hormones that regulate  
fluids in the body; Dr. Campbell dis­ 
cussed anti-malarial research at Notre  
Dame; and Dr. AVilson, his research in  
the reaction of furan compounds.  f i  
A plastic glue, strong enough to sup­ 
port a locomotive, and with greater resis­ 
tance to water, ice, heat and salt spray  
than ever before achieved, was described  
at the meeting. The two chemists who  
developed the new technique for pro­ 
ducing the glue are Fritz J. Nagel, B.S.,  
'41, M.S., '42, and Elizabeth M. Acker­ 
mann, both of the Westinghouse Re­ 
search Laboratories, East Pittsburgh, Pa.  
CLASS OF '22 GOES ON RECORD  
"The Class of 1922 strongly en­ 
dorses the aims of the Administra­ 
tion of the University and the Alumni  
Association, and we aim to assist  
the program by doing all in our  
power to provide the necessary  
funds. We pledge our full support  
to Father John Cavanaugh and  
HaiTy Hogan." (Gera'.d "Kid" Ashe,  
Secretary of the Class)  

Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947  
^  /•  The Board  of Governors:  Executive  Committee  
(Harry G.  Hogan,  Interim Qiairman)  

o 
E. A. BEBKEHY JOHN E. CASSIDY LESTER FOLEY BAYMOND A. GEIGEB HOBERT L. HAMILTON New York Citr Peoria, ni. laclcsonville, Flo. Newark. N. I. Badne. Wis. 
P 
GALVIN HUDSON THOMAS F. JONES. IB. JOSEPH B. McGLYNN JOHN F. McMAHON WILLIAM J. MOONEY Memphis. Tenn. Boise, Idaho East St. Louis, HI. Pittsburgh. Pa. Indianapolis, bid. 
JOHN E. MOOBE HUGH M. O'NEILL JOHN F. SAUNDEBS WnjJAM C. SCHMITT JAMES P. SWIFT Detroit. Mich. Cleveland, O. Boston, Mass. Portland. Ore. Dallas. Tex. 
o 
* These are the members of the first Committee organized from the new Board of Governors. They will meet at Notre Dame on July 25-26. The other State Governors have been divided into Organization and Finance Committees. These Committees will meet shortly after the Executive Committee Meeting, and a general meeting of the Board will be held at Notre Dame late in September. Pictures of the Governors comprising rhe other Commit­tees will be published in subsequent issues of the ALUMNUS. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

esty, lust and other commonly talked-of matters. 
ftoi^ 3>a4He Rooki 
RECLAMATION OF INDEPEND­ENCE by Willis D. Nutting. Berliner 

• & Lanigan. Nevada City, Calif. 53.00 
Willis Nutting, associate professor of history at Notre Dame, has a quiet way that is nevertheless firm, and it grows on the reader as he turns the pages of this book so beautifully printed and pub­lished by two Notre Dame alumni, their first venture in book-making. 
What Mr. Nutting says is that if men 
want independence they can have it. 
They will have to pay for it and are only 
romanticists if they think they can have 
it without effort and pains and plenty of 
sacrifice. A "free life" in the author's 
conception is not so much a life of un­
restraint as a life not subject to bosses 
and to management from outside. And 
that kind of life is a fundamental Amer­
ican ideal. 
A nation of employees, however, who 
vote every year or two hardly is a nation 
of freedom. "Even a highly paid and 

important employee is still deprived of 
the opportunity of making the great de­
cisions concerning his work and his life." 
At least in the economic order he is told 

what to do, when to do it, and through 
someone's petulance, prejudice or favor­

itism he may arbitrarily be deprived of 
his job. This condition is not the way of 
a free man. 

In a series of delightful and simple chapters Mr. Nutting traces the record of the American's losing much of the American ideal in the line of freedom, and also shows on the positive side how, if a man wants freedom, it is possible for untold thousands to reclaim their in­dependence. The positive reply of the author is that men more and more re­claim independence the more they make things for themselves and in that way remain free or become free. For ex­ample the more they produce their own food the less dependent they are on a system of Capital and Labor, finance and distribution and the ever-mounting costs. Of particular interest to college men and alumni is the chapter on "The mani­fold opportunity," showing the part that 
lawyers, engineers, and teachers can play in reclaiming independence for those ready to do their own part. 
The book is balanced and calm, the work of a man who has thought long on the subject, answered many questions about it, and who above all has lived for some years the way of life he describes. Mr. Nutting and his family live on a small acreage near Notre Dame where they have the time of their lives planning what they will have in their own home and their garden, and where, with the help of the garden, the pig and the bene­ficent family cow, they manage to pro­duce much of their food. 
A big hand is coming to Harry Ber­liner, '45 and Joe Lanigan, '44, who have spared no effort of labor, or fine yellow paper either, to give us this tiptop prod­uct of book-making, a book nice to feel and easy on the eyes. The book makes an excellent gift. 
—(Rev.) Leo R. Ward, CS.C. 

THE BEGINNING OF GOODNESS by Columba Cary-Elwes, Fides Publish­ers, South Bend, Ind., $1.00. 
James Cunningham, '44, publicity di­rector for the Fides Publishers, a Cath­olic Action Press located in South Bend, has directed The Beginning of Goodness to our attention. 
This book will be of great interest to recent Catholic graduates for its ninety-three pages adapts moral theology to the needs of the young layman. No one can read this work without realizing how fully the author has grasped the necessity of bringing to bear in a prac­tical manner the religious teaching of early years. 
The author, a Monk of Amplefortli, England, after speaking of the Will of God and the power of prayer, gives an essentially constructive chapter on Some Virtues and Vices in the World. He discusses plainly drink, marriage, mod-
LAY TRUSTEE CONGBATOLATES 
"I want to particularly congratu­late Mr. Hair; G, Hogon. whom I am proud to say is o{ my doss ol '04. President oi the National Alumni As­sociation, and you and your co­workers in the splendid start that has been made by Mr, Hogan towards unifying our alumni assoda­ion on a national scale. ParticulorlY do I congratulate Mr. Hogan on the very comprehensive and well thought out plans that he has put forth so that the nnirersity may be tremen­dously benefited in many ways. The university is to be congratulated on Mr. Hogan's willingness to give a year of his time and his genius for organizatioa to this great work." (Byron V. Kanoley, '04, member, board of lay trustees). 

Tkou Art My Strength, by Norbert Eng^ls, '26, professor of English, a col­lection of five religious poems based on the principal-parts of the Mass, will be published in mid-summer by the Bene­dictine Press, St. Meinrad, Ind. 
.Professor Engels, author of numerous essays, poetic works, musical composi­tions and drawings which have appeared in national publications, also is the auth­or of a new book, Man About the Hoiise, which will be published early next year by Prentice-Hall, Inc., publishing firm in New York City. This book is a collection of e5sa3^ and drawings which have ap­peared previously in various Catholic periodicals and popular craft magazines. 
BOy LEADERSHIP COURSE AT N.D. 
The second in the transcontinental series of Summer School of Boy Leader­ship sponsored annually by the Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau will open . at Notre Dame on Monday morning, July 21, and will continue through Saturday noon, July 26. This will be the twenty-first year that the Knights of Colum­bus have sponsored this summer train­ing course, the first one being held at Notre Dame in 1924. 
The Notre Dame session, designed for the training of the volunteer worker>in the field of leisure-time guidance of youth, is open to any Catholic man, and will be conducted by the professionally trained and experienced staff of the Boy Life Bureau headed by John J. Conway, '26, and including William L. Piedmont, '39, Frank J. Carr, '31, and Leo F. Carty. Notre Dame faculty members and visit­ing lecturers who will make presenta­tions during the week's training period, will include Rev. William F. Cunning­ham, CS.C, director of the faculty at the University, and special consultant to the Order's committee that initiated the Boy movement; Eev. Raymond W. Mur­ray, C.S.C., head of the Department of Sociology; Rev. Vincent Mooney, CS.C, CY.O. director of the Columbus, O., dio­cese; and Kenneth E. Cook, '26, national diriector of Catholic Service, Boy Scouts of America. 
Rev. Howard Kenna, CS.C, director of studies, will accept re^strations for the course. The fee of $25 will cover theen­tire expense of the training, including lodging in one of the residence halls on the campus, and meals served in the University Dining HalL Fuller details i may be secured by writing to John J. Contway, Executive Director, Knights of Cblwnbus Boy Life Bureau, P. O. Drawer 1670, New Haven 7, Conn. 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 ;^ 


® fl Challenge to Notre Dame Glubs 
When Father lohn Cavanaugh. Hairy G. Hogan and I. Arthur Haley were in New York on May 21 they were special guests at a luncheon and meeting spon­sored by the Trust Fund trustees of the Qub. Sitting, left, to right, are Dan O'Neill, lim Dwyer. Mr. Hogon. Father Covanough, Edward I. Glleen and Bichard Bmd. Standing. Tiemey O'Rourke. president of the club. Jordan Hargrore, Bob Hamilton. Tim Toomey. Mr. Holey and Jack HoyL 
Here is a challenge, from the Notre Dame Club of New York to all the other Notre Dame clubs! 
Deeply convinced of the desirability of upholding the academic projects of the University, the New York Club, through its Trust Fund trustees, on May 29 sent to Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, 
^ C.S.C, president, two checks: one for $2,500, and the other for ?1,000. 
The check for $2,500 was contributed toward the expenses of a series of con­ferences on tlie relationship between eternal and the positive law, and toward the publication of the fruits of such conferences. 
The check for $1,000 was contributed to the Bureau of Economic Research in the University which is attempting "to seek out the basic facts in our confus­ing economic life." 
The challenge flung out by the New York Club is in connection with the second of these checks. 
The Board of Trustees of the Trust Fund of the club, in sending the thous­and dollar check to the University, "di­rected that in the event that any other alumni club contributes $500 to the Uni­
^ versity for the Bureau of Economic Re­search the New York Club will auto­matically increase its contribution from $1,000 to $1,500." The secretary was directed to notify all other Notre Dame clubs of this decision. 
In writing to the Alumni Office about this meaningful decision, Robert A. Hamilton, '28, executive secretary of the Trust Fund, said, "all acceptances of this challenge should be sent to you— copy to me." Communications to Bob can be addressed to the Notre Dame Club of New York, 60 E. 42nd St., New York City. 
Who will be the first? Step right up! In expressing the University's grati­tude for the magnificent gifts, and for the significant understanding which prompted them, Father Cavanaugh ex­pressed much of the school's aim in edu­cating men. He wrote: "Your trust fund would never have been established if the Notre Dame alumni of New York had not been moti­vated by a powerful devotion to their school and what it stands for. "The University is proud to be co­sponsor with the New York Alumni Club of the lecture series on the relationship between eternal and positive law. We can reasonably hope that the publication of these lectrures will help to narrow the breach between the natural law and the. positivistic attitude of so many jurists. We may even hope that the publication of the lectures will be a landmark in , American jurisprduence. "The gift to the Bureau of Economic 
Research is a generous gestoie in sap-
port of an effort to seek out the basic 
facts in onr confusing, economic life. 
"The Umversityis not interested only in producing ideas that will inflneiiefe our society. We are primarily interested in training alumni who are imbued with those ideas. Your generous gifts in for­theiance of onr ideals are a source of sincere gratitude to us,.but our grati­tude is surpassed by onr pride in having you as our alumni." 
At the same meeting at which it voted to contribute a total of $3,500 to Uni­versity academic projects, the Trust Fund trustees of the New York Club voted favorably on two other proposals: a contribution of nearly $600 to the Fifth Annual Alumni Fund (for which the Alumni office repeats here its sin­eerest thanks); and the re-establishment of the club's annual scholarship award, suspended for several years on aeeoaht of the war. The award, offering tuition ­expenses 'for four years at Notre Pam^ is open to any Catholic man of the New York area who graduated from high school in January or Jime, 1947. Closing date for this year's applications was June 30. 
1947 ORDINATION CLASS 

Twelve seminarians of the Congre­gation of Holy C^vss were, on June 13, ordained to the priesthood by Host Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C, newly-conse­crated Bishop of Dacca, India, in cere-. monies in Sacred Heart Church. 
Those ordained are: Thomas E. Lock­ary, Weymouth, Mass.; Robert F. Tack, Tonawanda, N. Y.; John Corcoran, Gene­va, N. Y.; Raymond F. Connry, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Thomas J. Engleton, Ham­mond, Ind.; Aloysius E. Cussen, Dor­chester, Mass.;. J. Clifford Atwood, North Quincy,* Mass.; Ambrose J. Wheeler, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Chester J. Schneider, Evansville, Ind.; James E. Tobin, Dor­chester, Mass.; Robert M. Hoffinan, To­ledo, O., and Richard A. Terry, Lincoln, Neb. Robert Steigmeyer, Dayton, O., an original member of the ordination class, was stricken with appendicitis shortly before June 13. He will be ordained later. 
FROM COACH TO COACH 

"Congrotulaiions on the new ainnmi pcogrom. K looks like a win­ner. You have fine maleiial in the Noire OoBM olnami, ond they haw a great coach in yen. In my opinion the eorabinalioa can't be beoL" (Fnaak Leahy. Direcior ei/AtUelies). 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
•^ 

Interpreting Notre Dawne to the Public 
&.D;PlansWOO/)OOBuikimgPr^ 
i memorial ?»!«'• " S wn 
For Graduatd^^AsX 
r^'Si^lC^'«P'« r^Uo^OunposPa.­


the School Nobody Knows 
5?„^St rf the tmiW^^ ^ r la. nHM F««d r<Mi ^^^PS H 

ssr'' 
*««>»lft 
''•MiniB 
^"Vtt 
"<».. i«~.t 
.S';.!?"!^; 
£ " tft.1 

;?*« Notre Dame men will not have the burden of interpreting Notre Dame 
tut VII 

by themselves. The University De­
partment of Public Information and the friendly press and radio, increas­ingly staffed with Notre Dame men. assisL as these random clippings readily indicate. 
•UMTU 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 

Father Hugh O'Donnell Dies June 12 
Former President Guided University Through Trying Days of World War II; Died From Cancer After Illness of Only Five Months; Buried on 
June 16 After Funeral Mass Celebrated by Father Cavanaugh 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, who as president guided Notre Dame through the trying period of World War 11 and saw the school reach its highest enrollment following the war, died in the University Infirmary at 5 p. m. on Thursday, June 12. 

When Father O'Donnell was buried on ~ Monday, June 16, the present ALUMNUS ^ was ready for the press. There wasn't 
time, therefore, to prepare adequately a full appreciation of a man who, in so many devoted ways, had touched so many phases of Notre Dame life during practically all his adult days. Such an appreciation must be held for future issues. 
This, then, is merely the journalistic record of Father O'Donnell, prepared so that the thousands of alumni who knew him will, hearing of his death, pray for the repose of his soul and at the same time take from the courage of 

V his last days a new realization of No­tre Dame spirit. 
Father O'Donnell's death resulted from cancer of the pancreas. Taken ill in February, 1947, with what appeared 

,^ to be jaundice, as he was about to leave 
^ on a mission to South America for the Congi'egation of Holy Cross, he went in­stead to the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., where an operation disclosed his incurable condition. Because of the shock of the operation to his system he was not told immediately about the na­ture of his disease. It was not until he was in the Notre Dame Infirmary some weeks later that Father Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, and Father Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, told him that he had only a few months to live. 
Characteristically, he asked the two priests to accompany him to the Infir­mary chapel, where he made an act of resignation to the Divine Will. From that moment until his death, he main­tained a cheerful outlook, welcomed vis­itors to his room and during most of the time maintained a large personal cor­respondence vnth the aid of a secretary. 

I ^ On Sunday, June, 1, Father O'Donnell received at the Commencement the hon­orary degree of Doctor of Laws in rec­ognition of his long and heroic service to the University. He could not be pres­ent in person to receive the award. 
Amidst e.xpressions of deep sympathy from the great and the small of the country. Father O'Donnell was buried in the Community cemetery at Notre Dame, following solemn requiem Mass in Saci-ed Heart Church. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, who succeeded Fath­er O'Donnell as president of the Uni­versity, celebrated the Mass. Rev. J. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of 
Fcrther ODonnell 

studies, was deacon. Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, subdeacon, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, master of ceremonies. There was no sermon. Father Cavanaugh also gave the final absolution in the church and said the prayers at the grave. 
Present for the service were Most Rev.George L. Leech, bishop of Harris­burg; Most Rev. Edward F. Hoban, bish­op of Cleveland; Most Rev. Joseph H. Albers, bishop of Lansing; Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, bishop of Buffa­lo; Most Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C, bishop of Dacca, India, and Rt. Rev. Lawrence Vohs, O.S.B., abbot of St. Bede's Abbey, Peru, 111., and nu­merous monsignori, priests and nuns, in addition to the priests and brothers of the Congregation, and lay members of the Administration and the faculty and hundreds of other friends. 
Governor Ralph F. Gates and Secre­tary of State Thomas E. Bath, '32, rep­resented the state of Indiana, and they were accompanied by United States Sen­ator Homer E. Capehart of Indiana. Harry G, Hogan, president, officially rep­resented the Alumni Association. Many lay trustees and members of the Uni­versity's Advisory Council on Engineer­ing and Science were present, as well as innumerable alumni, many of them offi­cially representing Notre Dame clubs. 
Father O'Donnell had an almost un­interrupted association with activities of the University for 35 years. He became acting president, Jan. 15, 1940, succeed­ing Bishop O'Hara who had resigned to assimie new duties as bishop of the United States Army and Navy diocese. He was appointed president, July 23, 1940, and was reappointed for another three-year term in July, 1943. 
Father O'Donnell was bom on June 2, 1895 in Grand Rapids, Mich., and en­tered Notre Dame as an undergraduate student in 1912. He was the son of the late Edward J. and Sarah A. (nee O'Grady) O'DonneU. A brother. Dr. Frank J. O'Donnell, '17, Alpena, Mich., a sister, Mrs. A. G. Graziani, Chicago, Michael O'Donnell, a nephew, and Pa­tricia O'Donnell, a niece, survive him. 
Father O'Donnell was an honor stu­dent and well known football player at Notre Dame, winning a monogram as a center in 1915. After receiving his Litt.B. degnree in 1916, he entered the seminary of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and on Dec. 28, 1921, was ordain­ed to the priesthood in Sacred Heart seminary. Grand Rapids, by the Most Rev. Edward D. Kelly, D.D., then bish­op of that diocese. The following year Father O'Donnell received a doctor of philosophy degree from Catholic Uni­versity, where he specialized in Ameri­can Church History. 
In the spring of 1923 Father O'Donnell was named rector of Badin Hall and in 1924 he became prefect of discipline, a post which he held until 1931. He.,2JsQ served as a professor of history at the University. Fi-om 1931 to 1934 he was president of St. Edward's University; Austin, .Texas,- and for the next six years, vice-president of Notre Dame. 
The Noire Dame "Alumnus 

Twenty-six students of the University, who distinguished themselves scholastic­ally and in extra-curricular activities during the 1946-47 schoolyear, were hon­ored with awards at annual Class Day Exercises conducted in conjunction with the 102nd Commencement. The awards were presented by the Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president of the Uni­versity. 
Four members of the famous Notre Dame debate team which won 42 out of 49 matches during the season recently concluded and which finished in a tie for third place in the national tournament, were awarded public debate medals at the exercises. They are: Frank Finn, Denison, Tex., Timothy E. Kelly, Bay City, Mich., and Samuel J. Hazo and James P. Beymer, of Pittsburgh, Pa. 
MEEHAN MEDAt TO JOHNSTON The Meehan Medal for Literary Mer­it was awarded to John H. Johnston, Norfolk, Va. Arthur Stephen Harvey, C.S.C, Washington, D. C, won the Mit­chell Memorial Award for Playwriting. The Farabaugh Prize for Law was presented to John H. Merryman, Port­land, Ore. James E. Houghton, South Bend, was awerded the Miles O'Brien Prize for excellence in Mechanical Draw­ing, and Theodore W. Havely, Jr., Lex­ington, Ky., won the John J. O'Brien Prize for excellence in shop work. In the College of Law, Arthur M. Dia­mond, South Bend, was given the Hoynes Award to the senior in the College of Law who has the best record in scholas­tic grades, application, deportment, and achievement, along with the qualifica­tions for admission to the bar and prac­tice of law. Gerald A. Kamm, Misha-waka,.Ind., and Robert L. Miller, South Bend, won the Vint D. Vaughan Memo­rial Prizes for Law, g^iven to two stu­dents in the Law School who are most proficient in moot court trial practice. 
KEHVICE MEDAL TO GONZALES The Andrew F. Kervick Gold Medal for Drawing, awarded to the student of the Department of Architecture whose work in freehand drawing is of highest merit, was presented to Bonventura Gon­zales, Ballas, Tex. Luigi A. Scibelli, Mai­den, Mass., won the Nellie Wynn Ker­vick Gold Medal for Architecture, given to the third-year student whose work 
for the first three years in courses of architecture has been of highest merit. Jerome V. Blatz, Minneapolis, wjis 
awarded the Msgr. Francis A. O'Brien Prize for special-study and distinction in an historical essay. The J. Sinnot Meyers Burse in Journalism was pre­sented to William W. Wicks, Chicago, for excellence in editorial composition. 
7/e BLdetUi, 
TODAY 

The Hugh A. O'Donnell Gold Medal for Journalism, for the student in the De­partment of Journalism with the high­est average in his senior year, was awarded to James M. Regan, Holyoke, Mass. 
The Donoghue Prize for Essay on La­bor Relations, awarded for the best es­say submitted to the Department of Eco­nomics on labor relations, was awarded to James D. Rowland, Bayport, Minn. 
The Donoghue Prize for Essay on La­bor Problems, for the best essay on labor problems, was won by William J. Hoene, Duluth, Minn. 
Harry S. Brown, Berrien Springs, Mich., was awarded the Jacques Medal for Fine Art, presented to the the stu­dent in the Department of Fine Art who submits the best thesis for grraduation. The Hamilton Award, to the graduate of of the College of Commerce who achieved the highest scholastic average for the four-year course, was presented to Ger­ald E. Skofronck, Washington, D. C. The Hamilton Medal, to the g^raduate of the College of Commerce who has made the most improvement in public speaking during his college career, was won by James W. Kelly, of Olympia, Wash. 
CLASS OF 1932 APPBOVES 

"The Class of 1932. at its 15-Year Beunion, heartily endoised the new alumni program as outlined by President Hogan and Father Cavan­augh. They were especially enthusi­astic over the appointment of State Govetnois who will provide a closer association between the individual and the tiniveisity. They pledged themselves to support the Program in its entirety." (J. E. Collins. Secre­tary of the Class ol 1932) 
LOYAL STTPPOBT FBOM CHICAGO 
"The Chicago Club is greatly en­thused in the Alumni Association's program for increasing endowment We feel that by its continuous ap­plication and intelligent direction grea t accomplishment will be achieved. On beholi of all ouz mem­bers we offer our cooperation and loyal support" (Notre Dame Club of Chicago, Tom McCobe. President) 
Robert J. McBride, of Lancaster, O.,  ^  
won the Bryon V. Kanaley Prize award­ " '  
ed' to the senior monogram athlete ad­ 
judged most exemplary as a student and  
leader of men. The Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­ 
nell Trophy, for highest combined merit  
of scholarship in naval science subjects  
and naval aptitude, was awarded to Mar­ 
vin E. Pinaire, New Albany, Ind.  
The Navigation Award, presented by  
the Navy Department to the student in  
the Naval Reserve Officers Training  
Corps attaining the highest average in  
navigation subjects, was awarded to  
George H. Wrape, Clayton, Mo. The  
Chicago Tribune Gold Medal for Mili­ 
tary Merit to students in the NROTC  
attaining the highest averages in mili­ 
tary subjects was won by Isaac P. Reh­ 
kopf, Petoskey, Mich., and the Silver  
medal in the same classification was  
awarded to Marvin E. Pinaire, New Al­ ©  
bany, Ind.  
Charles J. Patterson, Gretna, Nebr.,  
delivered the Class Day Oration, and  
Gerald E. Skofronck, Washington, D. C,  
was the valedictorian.  
NOTBE DAME DEBATE  
Notre Dame and Army, perennial con­ 
tenders for the national intercollegiate  
football championship, almost met at  
West Point on May 4 to decide the inter­ 
collegiate debating championship of the  
United States.  
The occasion was the National Inter­ 
collegiate Debate tournament .at the  
United States Military Academy. Each  
competing against the best twenty-nine  
debate teams from an orig^lnal field of  
teams from more than 500 college and  
universities, Notre Dame and Army fin­ 
ished in a tie for third place.  ^  
Notre Dame gained some consolation,  
however, in the fact that as a result'of  
their excellent showing in the national  
debate tournament, the N. D. debaters  
now rank as the leading debate team in  
the midwest and also are listed as the  
top debate team representing Catholic  
universities in the nation. Representing  
the Irish in the national tourney were  
Frank Finn, Denison, Tex., and Timothy  
Kelly, Bay City, Mich. They were coach­ 
ed by Prof. Leonard Sommer of the  
Speech Department.  
miSH OVEB NAVY  
During the elimination rounds of the  
West Point tourney, Notre Dame de­ 
feated Gonzaga, Penn State, Louisiana,  
Utah, Wake Forest and the U. S. Naval  
Academy.  
Just prior to the dose of the regular  
schoolyear, Notre Dame and St. Mary's  
Coll^^e joined talents to produce "Man- 9  
the," a Gilbert and Sullivan muslcaL  
This year's presentation marked the first  
appearance of the St. Mary's college  

^ Savoyards on the Washington Hall 
^ stage. The show ran for six nights. Pro­fessor Cecil Birder directed. 
In'turn, the Notre" Dame Glee Club journeyed to St. Mary's to give a joint concert with the St. Mary's Glee Club on April 20. St. Mary's choral unit ren­dered the first portion of the program, Notre Dame the second, and both groups joined forces in the final portion. The combined St. Marys-Notre Dame Glee Clubs are planning to hold similar con­certs during the coming fall and spring 
• semesters. 
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, vice-president, joined William Fox, sports editor of the Indianapolis Netvs; South Bend's Joe Boland, WSBT sportscaster; John Wooden, basketball coach of Indi­ana State Teachers College; Paul D. 
^,j (Tony) Hinkle, basketball coach and di­rector of athletics, Butler University; Adolph Rupp, basketball coach of the University of Kentucky; and Jim Costin, sports editor of the South Bend Tribune in honoring the .1946-47 version of the Fighting Irish basketball team at a tes­timonial banquet on April 1 in the Indi­ana Club, South Bend. 
The banquet, sponsored by the Vil­lagers Club, composed of students whose homes are in South Bend, was a revival of a pre-war annual event, and, like its predecessors, it was a standout. The Vil­lagers deserve applause, again. 
The 1947 Dome has not come off the press as yet. Editor John Walker, Elgin, m., hopes to have the first post-war Dome in the mails by September. The Scholastic, student weekly, will probably put in a brief appearance during the 
^, summer term. It is rumored that two issues will be published. The Juggler, new literary version of the old Scrip, made its second appearance in the sec­ond week of May. 
POLITICAL SCIENTISTS AT N. D. 

Recent activities on the Notre Dame campus saw 300 outstanding political sci­entists from the midwest assemble for their fifth annual conference on May 2, 3, and 4. In welcoming the political sci­entists Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, warned that the un-American and un­christian doctrines the United States defeated abroad in World War II are "spreading here at home and are caus­ing grave and justifiable concern." Other speakers included: William P. Maddock, director of the Foreign Service Institute of the State Department; Dr. Arthur W. Macmahon, of Columbia University, president of the American Political Sci­ence Association; and Dr. Paul Barthol­omew of Notre Dame. 
Leading fltomic Scientists at N.- D. 
Meet in Four-Day Session to Discuss 
Radiation Chemistry and Photochem­
istry; First Symposium of Its Kind 
Leading atomic energy scientists from the United States, Great Britain and Canada participated in a special four day symposium on Radiation Chemistry and Photochemistry on June 24-27' at Notre Dame. 
Purpose of the symposium, the first of its kind involving both radiation chem­ists and photochemists, was to discuss some of the fundamental phenomena in the two allied fields. Study in both fields played a prominent part in the develop­ment of-the atomic bomb during World War If 
Dr. Milton Burton, professor of chem­istry, was chairman in charge of ar­rangements and secretary for the four-day meeting. Dr. Burton was chief of the Radiation Chemistry section at the atomic energy project at Chicago and at Oak Ridge, Tenn., during the war, part of that time on leave of absence from Notre Dame. 
Of special interest was the participa­tion of Prof. James Franck, of the Uni­versity of Chicago, who is called the Father of Modem Photochemistry, and Dr. Robert Spence, director of the Chem­ical Division of the British Atomic Ener­gy project at Harwell, England. Pro­fessor Franck, winner of the Nobel Prize in 1925 and professor of Physical Chem-• istry at Chicago, headed the chemical division of America's Manhattan project. 
Opening day addresses were given by Dr. S. C. Lind, dean emeritus of the School of Chemistry, University of Min­nesota, and author of the first book on Radiation Chemistry in 1921, who was general chairman of the meetings; Dr. 
E. W. R. Steacie, Director of the Chem­ical Division of the National Research Council of Canada at Ottawa and head of the Chemical Division of Canada's atomic energy project; Dr. J. O. Hirsch-
MALLON T.TKF.S NEW PLAN 

".. . I was glad to hear your meet­
ing was successful, paiticulaily in 
relation to the establishment of the 
State Governors. You should find 
the efficiency of our organizafion 
much improved by his octivity." 
(Paul Mallon) felder, professor of Chemistry at the University of Wisconsin, who acted as chief phenomenologist at last year's atom bomb tests at Bikini, and Dr. George Glocker, chairman of the Department of Chemistry, University of Iowa. 
Second-day sessions papers were pre­sented by Dr. J. A. Hippie^ hesid'bf the Nuclear Physics Division of the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C ; George C. Eltenton, an executive with the Shell Development Company, Emeryville^ Calif.; Dr. A. O. Allen, who succeeded Dr. Burton as head of the Ra­diiation Chemistry branch at Oak Ridge; and Dr. F. S. Dainton, lecturer at Cam­bridge University in England, who wa.o connected with Canada's Chalk River atomic energy project during the war. 
Four of the nation's outstanding photo-chemists spoke on June 26, on some of the basic processes in Photochemistry. They were Dr. G. K. RoUefson, professor of Chemistry at the University of CaU­fomia, who was associa;ted with at<»nic energy work work performed there; Dr. 
R. S. Livingtone, professor of Chemistry University of Minnesota; Dr. F. E. Bla­cet, professor of (Chemistry at the Uni­versity of California at Los Angeles, who worked on the government's chemi­cal warfare project during the war, and Dr. W.. Albert Noyes, Jr., chairman of the Department of (%emistry. Univer­sity of Rochester, Rochester, N. Y., and president of the American Chemical So­ciety. 
The final session featured talks by Dr. Irving Breger, of the Massachusetts In­titute of Technology, who has done im­I>ortant work in the origins of petroleum for the American Petroleum Institute; Prof. John E. Willard, professor of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin, an authority on the isolation and purifica­tion of Plutonium, a basic element in the atomic bomb; Prof. T. H. Davies, pro­fessor of Oiemistry, University of Chi­cago, who worked in the field of Badio-Chemistry at Oak Ridge, and Dr. Burton. 
Various manufacturers of products in the fields of Radiation Chemistry and Photochemistry. had their respective products on display at special exhibits set up for the duration of the symposium. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Alumni T-Formdtion-"We Must Take off Our Coats" 
By Harry G. Hosan, '04 

President of the Alumni Association 
Stirrins Alumni Banquet Address Outlines Notre Dame's Greatness and Need for Alumni Action 
It is with humility, coupled with great pride, that I approach the opportunity to speak to fellow Notre Dame men under the shadows of the protective mantle of "the lovely lady garbed in blue" 
I 51m keenly aware of the honor af­forded me, as your national alumni pres­ident, to speak words of praise for a great institution of Western civilization, one which is both a world shrine to Our Lady and one which our beloved Presi­dent, Father Cavanaugh, so descriptively calls a living miracle. 
I think nowhere has any of us seen so beautifully portrayed the essential nature of the mystical body of Christ as -we do in the life and the operation of this great school. Here it seems to be a sweet, silent but apparent communion between the Notre Dame of the past, the Notre Dame of the present and thy Notre Dame of the future More than anywhere else, we are conscious as wi walk over this campus and stand in the shadows of its buildings that the dead, the living, and the future builders of Notre Dame are intimately joined in the warm handclasp of a fraternal aiiec­tion bom of a common religrious faith and a common devotion to our inspiring Alma Iffater. Yesterday, it was the Sor­ing, the Badins, the Morrisseys, the Cav­anaughs, the Walshes, the O'Donnells, and all the rest. Today, it is another group of human counterparts to these men, and tomorrow, we know with all the faith that is ours, that other men will merge into the unfolding history of Notre Dame, and accept the torch of tradition which is handed them. 
Our Bole in the Groundwork 

The past, in a very real sense, still makes itself intimately apparent at No­tre Dame, but with all its great glories, the past is gone. The future of Notre Dame, which we envision, is something that cannot be fabricated in the tomor­rows,' which never come, but only in the moments of the present, when we as minor players are privileged to walk the stage and play our imimportant roles in oui; moments in the conscience of time. 
A great American recently said in another application, "Take your hats off to the past, but take your coats off to the future" Those of us who have a chance to play in the present moments of Notre Dame, should take "off our 
Harry G. Hogan, '04 

coats," and in a unity of resolution and action, lay the groundwork for the still greater cathedral of learning that this school is destined to be. 
The time in which to play our part may be shorter than we think. Teo often, through delay, we verify the lines, "too little, too late" That is why I would like all of you to cooperate with something that has been started here to acquire a deserved greater future for Notre Dame, making her a stronger bulwark, not only of the Catholic faith, but of the prin­ciples of the Western World which we in the United States have translated into what we call, for lack of a better description, "the American way of life." America is about the last real strong­hold of Western civilization, possessing the will and morale to resist the waves of atheism and Oriental materialism threatening to engrulf the world and im­peril our own national and individual security. 
None of us has ever fully discharged the debt he owes this institution for in­stilling in us and others the priceless principles of our faith. But even though we cannot succeed in matching the gifts which this institution has given us, we must try and try generously. By giving what we can freely, we get out of the ^ ) bleachers and into the game as players. 
Notre Dame was never cheated by her sons who could, but failed to, contri­bute to her growth. They only cheated themselves by not playing when they could. 
More Than Money 

It is not money that Notre Dame has ever sought to ask of you or me It is not just money that she seeks to ask of you now. It is a willing^ness on your part to do what you can to contribute to the Notre Dame of tomorrow which this country, your church and our na­tion's Catholic youth so richly deserve Notre Dame wants money only as a wholesome means to a sound end: the progressive development of an institution ^' | which will be able to match the increased demands that her increased prestige and the increased needs of our country will place upon her. She simply and soundly needs money to buy the tools to do a great job which needs to be done 
I don't think we have ever, as we ought, grasped the vision of the future of Notre Dame We have tended smugly perhaps too much to regard our heritage here as a selfish one, not to be shared fully with all our friends over the coun­try who while not alumni of Notre Dame are friends of this institution and an­xious to assist it. To correct this un­intended lack of thoughtfulness on our part, we of the Alumni Association, un­der the direction of our University head. Father Cavanaugh, recently instituted a new plan which we think will mean much in the realization of Notre Dame's deserved future growth and expansion. ^ In every state in this country, in Cana­da,, Uexico, Cuba, Puerto Rico and in many South American- countries, the University and the Alumni Association 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
^ have appointed Notre Dame Governors to serve as contacts between friends of Notre Dame in distant states and cities. It will be the purpose of these men, and their successors to present in every large or small home, city and town of every alumnus, through Public Relations Com­mittees of five or more members, the needs of the University to its friends. This to the end that their assistance may be obtained in getting for us, our country, and Mother Church the expand­ed Notre Dame of tomorrow. 
Mobilize Our Talent 

The idea we want to emphasize just now is to mobolize and integrate to the needs of Notre Dame its talent, existing so abundantly in every large and small city in this country but much of which 
^ lies fallow. Our problem in the past to achieve this goal, has been one of "lo­gistics." Our returned Army and Navy men, to whom I pay tribute, know ex­pertly what the term implies. 
We have tried in the past to main­tain a • system of one-way service and contact from the central staff here, withJ out well-distributed reciprocal sub-sta­tions, except in some 100 Club cities mostly in eight or ten Eastern and Mid­dle West states where our members are numerous. 
I am very happy to state that the prompt enthusiastic acceptance of the Governor appointments in each of the 48 states in less than 30 days, seem to indicate a sound plan and promising suc­cess. The University, I think, has again made the soul-satisfying discovery that 
^al l Catholics, especially Notre Dame men feel it a deep privilege to be able to re­spond to a plea from this University for organized, constructive help. 
The success of the New Plan will de­pend to a great extent upon the aid that you and all other friends of Notre Dame give it. It has the blessing of President Cavanaugh and will receive the aggres­sive support of the directors, oificers and headquarters staff of the Alumni Association. At this point, I wish sin­cerely to pay tribute to the ability and the energy of our capable Alumni Di­rector Secretary, Jim Armstrong, now . rounding out more than" 20 years as your executive officer. Jim is himself a splendid Notre Dame product, well rep­resenting his school in all that he under­takes. 
Now with the alumni of Notre Dame ^clicking in every city and town in the Afield, with your officers at the University, 
I feel confident that, with God's grace, the Notre Dame of tomorrow that we visualize will indeed become a reality. 
On several occasions recently, I have had the pleasure of some stimulating visits with our famous athletic, director. Coach Frank Leahy. I think he is one of the finest types of men, a credit not only to Notre Dame's athletic department but to his church. 
In this connection, I would like to make an observation that is needless to make at a Notre Dame gathering, that while Notre Dame is indeed proud of its athletic achievements, these things are not responsible for our success. As a very learned priest recently said in a public address, "Notre Dame is not great 
QUOTATIONS FBOM PBES. HOGAN 
"We must take otf our hats to the past, but we must take oU our coats to the future . . ." 
"Notre Dame wants money only os a wholesome means to a sound end 
"Nolle Dame has a great {oolboll team BECAUSE IT IS A GBEAT UNI­VERSITY; it is not a great Umveisity because it has a great football team 
"Our relationsliip with Notre Dame must be on a 365-day-a-year basis 
because of its football team, but in­stead has a great football team because it is a g:reat University." 
We make no apologies to anyone for our athletic programs, nor for our ath­letics. Neither at the same time will we let the ridiculous charge stand that No­tre Dame has become great because of its athletic greatness. 
When I entered Notre Dame, nearly fifty years ago, its athletic glory was a matter of only a very local knowledge, but I know that this University then had students attending from states through­out the Union and even from foreign countries. The. great era of Notre Dame athletics has been comparatively recent, yet Notre Dame has been a famous insti­tution of Catholic learning and culture for over a hundred years. 
I prefer to think that made up as it is, Notre Dame will be great in any­thing she undertakes, whether it be an improvement on Father Nieuwland's syn­thetic rubber discovery, an advance in knowledge of splitting the atom or a new version of the T-formation on the grid­iron. 
There are some who may think that 15; 
with a chwnged irorid, a new nuawm confronts Notre .Dame and .tiiat from here on in, her woric will be nnieh differ-, ent from' that which fhe Univeinty "was called upon to do in earlier days.. . 
Tb* Madani UnidaiaiMi 

On the contrary her original role ia her present on^ adjusted as it has been, during the years, to current dremn­stances. The fundamentals that will ani­mate her will remain unchanged. The Notre Dame of Father Sorin and Fathw Badin was started in a little ,log cabin behind the present University library to clear the wildramess of this part of the country, to push back the frontiers of Christian order in a. physically, mentally and spiritually disordered world of that day. True, the wilderness which con­fronted the efforts of Father Sorin was a physical one> but today Notre Dame is confronted with another wilderness, a much worse one, namely the wilderness of the modem - mind and the modem soul. Notre Dame must again dear a wilderness and restore a Christian order to a spiritually sick nation^ 
As our distinguished friend. Dean Pat Manion, has brilliantly'pointed out on many occasions throughout this country, the basic prindples of our unique form of government are Catholic, and stem from our original authentic Christian re­ligion. 
The success of Notre Dame^ like the success of this country, has hinged on the basic notion that all men are creatures of God and therefor^ possessed of an eternal destiny which governments must 
' protect. The philosophy of true Ameri­canism is the philosophy of Catholic thinkers, as well as those Christians out­side the. Catholic Church who still hdd fast to a considerable heritage of Catho­lic thought. In this connection, I want to emphasize that the preservation of the AJnerican philosophy and the restor­ation of it to the general acceptance which it once had is not the exdusive task of Catholics, but of all those Pro-. testants and Jews who accept the basic verities. We invite them with all the persuasiveness of which we are capable to join us in this effort to keep a free America by instilling into the minds' and.hearts of American students a full appredation of thdr nature, thdr ori­gin and thdr destiny. The freedom which is traditionally American is a freedom bom of a' rdigious concept, namely the creation of Man by an In­finitdy wise and supreme intelligence. It is the only basis on which freedom can be founded, because without a God there is no supreme law-giver and without a supreme law-giver no pattern of order. The concept of God, which Notre Dame 
16 

teaches, is in its. ultimate pursuit the keystone that.holds together the entire political structure which is known as the American way of life and the more inclusive structure which is known as the Western civilization. 
The Lay Bible 
Because we believe in God and the American system of political science, we also believe in the Ten Commandments and their applicability, whether in every­day life or in the life of the nation or the life of international organizations. Men don't need complicated codes of ethics. They need only the Ten Com­mandments which have been implement­ed into our Constitution and extended to our federal, state and city statutes, forming a standard code of ethics, a lay bible in the fraternal, social and political relationship between man and man. 
I am convinced, that, in the light of what I have tried to say, and with a rather intimate knowledge of the prob­lem that lies ahead for Notre Dame, the Church and the nation, this is a year of a real decision for Notre Dame. 
There is a tide-in the affairs of men. 
Which taben at the flood, — 
Leads on to fortune. 
At this hour there appears a real tide for Notre Dame. It presents a challenge to her and to you to be taken at the flood. Nctre Dame is preeminently the best • organized Catholic institution of learning to accept for Mother Church, and the nation the challenge presented by the complex situation that now con­fronts a very sick world, filled with con­fusion and bewilderment, to which this nation is acutely exposed, with the se­curity of its way of life seriously threat­ened. To successfully meet the challenge and to lead the fight for Christian Amer­ica, Notre Dame sorely needs money to expand its academic departments and house their facilities. 
This poses the question of why N.D. needs additional money, and where that money should come from. We should first understand that if Notre Dame trebled her present • student body, which she should not, and I am sure will not, neith­er her quantitative or qualitative ex­pansion could be financed from current operating income. 
If she is to expand qualitatively, through the creation or expansion of academic departments, she will need new outside money for them and for new buildings to house them. 
There is no logic in thinking about such expansion, if current income fixes 
a. forbidding ceiling, unless Notre Dame reachies out for new. money. However, where there is a need, there must'be a democratic way. 

Consequently it becomes the obligation of the alumni friends of Notre Dame here and now to sit around the table with the University authorities and de­termine first whether the necessary fi­nances for things so necessary to be done can be obtained solely from the alumni. If it is found that the expansion budget, pared to the bone, is too large for the alumni to assume, then the pro­gram deemed necessary must be either abandoned, or dwarfed, or wait for a Santa Claus, or else other reservoirs must be tapped now and in an organized way. The obvious source in my humble opinion is aid from our non-alumni friends. 
N. D. CLUB ENDORSES PROGBAM 
"Notre Dame Club of New York extends to you and National Board congratulations and best wishes for successful zeunion. Entire member­ship here directs me to pledge you enthusiastic support commendotion and appreciation in canying out your excellent program for national alumni actiTities ... " (Telegram from the Notre Dame Club to Presi­dent Hogan through President Tier­ney CBourke) 

This course would set no new prece­dent because heretofore the University has received generous contributions from non-alumni—^both Catholic and Protes­tant. The process followed was in good taste, free from any pressure. 
With the principle established, that a money need exists, and the conclusion that the source of non-alumni contribu­tions should be broadened, we come to the matter of method. 
It is proposed, instead of a leisurely limited effort, that under the Governor and Committee-of-5 plan, it be broaden­ed by following the pattern of what has been done by the University through its Endowment Department here, by dupli­cating it at the community level in many, if not all, of the cities of over 50,000 population. 
The community branch of the Alumni-University Endowment Department un­der the plan proposed would initially consist of a local Public Relations Com­mittee of five or more members. 
The Committee would compile local lists of friends of Notre Dame, grouped as Catholics and non-Catholics, with the earliest approach to the former, through a careful presentation by mail from the The. Notre Dame Alumnus 
University, or by a personal local solid-^ tation, of both. 
Be assured that the same high degree of taste followed by the University in its acquisition will be sacredly parallel­led. This guarantee is self evident be­cause the responsible persons selected to man the local Committees will be of a type who would not embarrass the Uni­versity or themselves. For, after all, they live and fraternize and do business in the same community with the prospects to be approached. 
If the money is acquired before prices reach their normal level, it can be safely assumed that it vrill not be spent until the time is propitious and all the pre­vailing factors are favorable. 
The best proof of this is that in the past the University management has not built carelessly or extravagantly. The ^D only buildings without high utility are those of extreme old age. 
For Responsible Leadership 

The record assures that the Univer­sity will be expanded soundly, with em­phasis not on the quantitative but on the qualitative. This so that higher polish and extra lustre can be g^iven the young minds to be fashioned by the University as morally cultured responsible leaders in their chosen fields. 
Mother Church in her democratic way depends on the modest offerings of her people to meet the expense of the spiri­tual service she so importantly offers. Notre Dame is an auxiliary of Mother Church in the transmission of her pre­cepts to the students entrusted to her care. In this service it too is entitled to ^ . the democratic help of its alumni sons " ' and also of the helpers of Mother Church. Father Cavanaugh was signifi­cantly g^teful to the New York Notre Dame Club for their financial support of his proposed Institute of Natural Law. Such academic activities, and others so endowed, carry no strings or implica­tions of any lack of full free expression, carry no obligation,, except to reveal and express the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 
I could go on interminably emphasiz­
ing what to any Notre Dame man is ob­
vious. I merely wish to make the jnost 
of this opportunity to implore not only 
yon who are here but also all alumni and 
friends of Notre Dame to make the rela­
tionship which exists between them and 
the University a closer tiling than one 
merely of affection or sentiment, desir­
able and laudable as they are. Notre 
Dame has a very definite purpose in the | ^ 
American and Catholic scheme of things 
which can only be realized to its fullest 
extent by all of its friends being willing 
(Continued on Page 38) 
Volume 2S, No. 3, June, 1947 

Responsible Leadership 
By Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, CS.C, '23 
President of Notre Dame 

Address at Alumni Banquet Gives University's Inventory of Achievement and Faith in Future 
^ 
a 
o 
I would be derelict in my duty this evening if I did not begin what I have to say to you by expressing my most sincere and heartfelt thanks to Harry Hogan for his mag^iificent work in behalf of Notre Dame as president of the national  Alumni Association. He has established himself as one of Notre Dame's greatest benefactors because he has given so un­selfishly of himself. He has turned his rare genius for organization to devising means that will lead to Notre Dame's ends, the achievement of which he has idealistically made his avocation. We are all in his debt for what he has done —^I am doubly his debtor, first as an alumnus, and secondly as president of the University which has been the bene­ficiary of his time and thought. 
The Bole of the "Hogan Plan" 
As our national Alumni President has implied, this is Notre Dame's hour of opportunity. There has never been a time when her potential energy was so great, when the go-ahead sign gleamed more brightly before her; when there was a greater need and demand for the type of responsible leadership which she can help to provide to the American people. The opportunity is there, but translating our potentialities into actual­ities involves more than local administra­tion, no matter how. sound and wise that administration may be. 

By way of illustration: At each place tonight you found a newspaper story about Notre Dame's $12,000,000 building program. You found architect's draw­ings. But, unless I am very much mis­taken, you have not seen any steam shovels beginning excavations, concrete being poured, or bricklayers at work since you arrived on the campus. I as­sured you that Notre Dame is not mak­ing any rash moves. There will be no abandonment of the judicious policy that has always guided our physical expan­sion. 
Of course, when that story appeared a couple of weeks ago, some of our friends leaped to conclusions. Not know­ing Notre Dame's circumstances as well as you and I do, they assumed that the money is in the till, and that we are prepared to get under way at once." Well, we are not. Even if building conditions were more favorable than they are, Notre Dame is not in a position to under­take such large commitments. The need, however, is immediate. When conditions are favorable, there must be no unneces­sary delays. Notre Dame must be ready to get under way at once. Actual ex-
I. A. O'Shdughness; receiving honororr ULD. from Father Cavonaugh 
pansion — physical and otherwise — de­pends, in large part, upon circumstances beyond the control of the administration. It depends upon widening that circle of thoughtful men and women who know and appreciate, with a tangible apprecia­tion, Notre Dame's worth to the. nation. This is where the plan proposed by Harry Hog^an plays an important part in our future. 
Just now, Notre Dame is bursting at. the seams. .. . I can almost hear you say, "Enrollment." But I.am not think­ing primarily of the 4,600 students in the five colleges and the Graduate School, 
nor of the 10,000 who are currently clamoring at our gates. Trying to gear ­our present facilities to an enrollment one-half in excess of what they were in­tended for has taxed our ingenuity, but so far we have made out without sacri­ficing standards. If we were to assume the permanence of an enrollment of from 4,500 to 5,000—and that is a reasonable, assumption—we shall, of course, need several new residence halls, another set of dining halls on the eastern campus, and a corresponding increase in other facilities. But that is a bridge which we shall cross when we come to it. 
When I said that Notre Dame is burst­ing at the seams, I was thinking of our expanding influence, through the pres­tige that came through new contacts made during the war, especially with the Navy; through the researches that are being carried on by our various faculties as well as the thorough day-to-day teach­ing characteristic of Notre Dame; and, by no means least, through our alumni whose lives as: Christians and Americans are an example to their fellow citizens, a source of pride to their Alma Hater, and the reason why Notre Dame educa­tion is so popular. 
Most Prodnca Basponsibla Laodara 

Another reason that our influence has been expanding is simply that there has been a growing realization among the American people that the first duty of an institution of higher learning is to educate for moral leadership. In this field Notre Dame has been pre-eminent. One lesson the war has taught us is that it is not enough for a university to foster the physical sciences; it must also help produce morally responsible leaders who can be trusted to handle the develop­ments of science for the benefit of man­kind. 
From its beginnings, more than a cen­tury ago, Notre Dame has recognized and accepted its grave responsibility to help widen the horizons .of physical science, as witness the work of Zahm, Green, and Nieuwiand. In our labora-: 
"The Noire Dame Alumnus 

tories today our research men are en­gaged in work no less important than theirs that will bring eventual good to society. For example, in the Department of .Chemistry, Dr. Campbell has been de­veloping anti-malarial drugs to combat a disease which afflicts as many as 300,­000,000 persons annually throughout the world. • In LOBUND, Mr. Reyniers is continuing his experiments with germ-free life and its uses in biology. Their effect upon nutritional studies indicates that they may help to open an avenue to a cure for cancer. The new science of electronics occupies Dr. Coombs, who was on a loan to the government at M. 
I. T. during the war. Dr. Guth is con­tinuing Notre Dame's already famous studies in synthetic rubber. Dr. Mahin and Dr. Troiano are doing work in metal­turgy to keep that science abreast of supersonicsaviation. The science of fluid mechanics is occupying the College of Engineering on the graduate level. 
I did not intend to recite a litany, either of our research projects or of the men who are conducting them. However, I wish to- make this rather important point: One of the most direct means of expanding and solidifying the influence of any university is through its graduate school. Harvard, Yale, M. I. T., Cal. Tech., and a dozen others that I might mention are noted not only for their re­search, but for the men they train who afterwards occupy key positions in their respective fields. Notre Dame's graduate departments, you will be interested to hear, are attracting the type of man we want as a potential leader. Therefore, we consider a constantly increasing ex­penditure in the Graduate School a wse and profitable investment. 
We Need Trustworthy Leadership 

But while Notre Dame encourages the physical sciences, we also recognize and accept our responsibility to give proper direction to the social, cultural, political, end economic thinking of all our stu­dents, so that we can turn over to the American people year after year young men who can supply trustworthy in­lectual and moral leadership. 
Notre Dame believes that the moral responsibility of the great mass of men and women is a necessary pre-supposi­tion to any kind of order or government in the world. This belief is not a mere academic theory.. As Father O'Donnell, my predecessor in office, and Dean Manion, of the College of Law, have pointed out time and again, it is the rock upon which our government is built. The Founding Fathers knew that three fundamental truths must be taken for 
granted by any people for whom a just government is to be formed. These are, first, the existence of God; secondly, a balance of God-given rights and God-given duties; and, thirdly, the conviction that government exists only to secure the rights of the governed. 
This brings me, rather logically, to the establishment by Notre Dame of the Mediaeval Institute—the only one of its kind in the United States. The name, I am told, has something of the atmos­phere of the ivory tower; but the Insti­tute itself is a matter of complete practi­cality; I might almost say "urgency," be­cause through such agencies must come the controls, moral, spiritual, and in­tellectual, that will make the develop­ments of science a boon and not a burden to humanity. 
"Notre Dame has a great destiny' It has been a privilege to be a port of it." (Father Hugh O'Donnell, just a few days before his death.) 
"This is Notre Dame's hour of op­portunity ... " (Fr. Cavanaugh). 
"I am not osking you to give, but to get ... " (Fr. Cavanaugh), 
The institute constitutes a center for specialized scholarly research, scientific historical investigation and training in all that concerns the growth and develop­ment of Christian culture in the thought, life, and civilization of the Middle Ages. You may well ask, "What's so practical about that?" The answer is that the Institute does not look upon a scholarly consideration of the Middle Ages as a pleasant antiquarian task that is an end in itself, but rather as a means of pre­serving and furthering the traditional Christian learning that is fundamental in American democracy. As a matter of history, the American tradition is a Christian tradition. Also, as a matter of history, we did not begin to worry, nor did we have reason to worry, about the future of our American institutions until we started to poison the Christian roots which alone give them their vitality. It is, then, a matter of common sense—a matter of survival—to recover a vital Christian philosophy as a safeguard for the futui-e. The aim of the Mediaeval Institute is to repossess ourselves com­pletely of our Christian tradition and to express it in terms of modem problems. 
Today, when the fate of the world lies in the wise management of the scientific devices we already possess, even more than in the production of more scientific instruments; when the world is strug­
gling to find a just and lasting order  d  
than can restore confidence to the minds  
of men, religious, moral, and human  
values must receive special attention  
from our educational agencies, not only  
from colleges and universities, but from  
primary and secondary schools as weU.  
The cycle begun by the Darwinian scien­ 
tists who exiled God from society a cen­ 
tury ago has been completed. Ironically,  
by their terrifying productions, they have  
•forced God's return. They have made  
the art and science of moral living the  
greatest necessity of the modem age, the  
Wnd of living for which Notre Dame  
educates.  
Notre Dame Alumni on Top  
As an educational institution, Notre  
Dame believes that moral leadership, to  
function at its best, must be implemented  ^  
with training for practical leadership.  
Moral leadership, which once exerted its  
force through laborious hours of copying  
by hand the learning of the ancients, has  
not spumed the magic of the modem  
printing press.; Nor should the advocate  
of peace in our day be too quick to dis­ 
count the possession of power. A knight  
in mediaeval armor at Anzio or Okinawa  
might be a very brave and very moral  
leader, but he would soon be a very dead  
leader.  
The University of Notre Dame gives  
sound professional, scientific and techni­ 
cal training. We are always seeking  
means of providing students with still  
more and still better facilities with which  
to prepare for their chosen professions.  
But Notre Dame realizes that God made  
man in His image, and that a man is a  M  
man first, with rights and duties as such.  
After that, he is a scientist, an engineer,  
a teacher, or a lawyer. Notre Dame  
trains scientists, engineers, lawyers, and  
teachers. Notre Dame educates men.  
Only by training and educating can we  
widen the horizons of learning and also  
furnish disciplined, God-fearing leaders  
to the American people who must always  
strive to be models of justice and charity  
among the peoples of the earth.  
Has Notre Dame succeeded in her  
aims? You altmini are proof that she  
has. You are the leaders who have taken  
Notre Dame's teachings with you into  
your professions, your businesses, and  
your homes, and your influence is being  
felt  
It is no longer true that the number  
of Notre Dame alumni is small, nor is it  
true that the average Notre Dame alum­ ^  
nus is relatively young and just on his  "  
way to the top. The years have been  
slipping by, and you have arrived.  
(Continued on Page 38)  

?*•:-' 
\*m 
m^ 

Rev. Lawrence L Graner, C.S.C., '24, is Consecrated Bishop of Dacca 
IDENTIFICATION: Abovev prelates who attended the consecration: Bishops Edward Hob ^ Stcpkc* 8. Woaaicid, Mkm T. VaO, ] John F. O'Hara, John Haifc Gannon^ Joseph Albers and SDcliael J. Ready. Abore, tisht. Bishop tyBmim, tke ti l malar, pimali the Graner. Center, Bishop Graner with Father Tom Kelly. Bdow, Bishop Gnner. attndad by fliiliiii fiiaa— aal Nel. CSIOB Ike richt. Father Philip Moone, Father Encene Bnrke, Bishop Graner, IVither Kelly and IWher Srhalte lM<oie the < 
o 
On April 23, the Most Rev. Lawrence 
L. Graner, C.S.C., '24, came back to the school from which he was graduated to be consecrated bishop of Dacca, India, in the historic setting of Sacred Heart Church. 
In the age-old ceremony of the church, the former altar boy from Franklin, Pa., was consecrated and invested by the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, bish­op of Buffalo, N. Y., and former presi­dent of the University. The co-consecra­tors were Most Rev. John Noll, bishop of Fort Wayne, Ind., and Most Rev. John 
M. Gannon, bishop of Erie, Pa. 
Other bishops who attended the con­secration were Most Rev. Michael Ready, bishop of Columbus, O.; Most Rev. John 
G. Bennett, bishop of Lafayette, Ind.; Most Rev. Edward Hoban, bishop of 

o 
Cleveland, O.; Most Rev. Stephen Woz­nicki, auxiliary bishop of Detroit, and Most Rev. Joseph H. Albers, bishop of Lansing, Mich. 
The mother church of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross, in which four bishops. 

inclnding Bishop Graner, Iiave been eonr secrated, wasfilled with hundreds of mon­signori, priests, Notre Dame faculty members, students and friends and rela­tives of the new bishop, a veteran Holy Cross missionary who has conducted mis­sionary work in India for the congrega­tion most of the time since.his ordination in 1928. 
The consecration sermon was deUver^ ed by the Rev. Leo Flood, C.S.C, pastor of Sacred Heart Church, New.Orleans, a classmate and boyhood friend of the new bishop. 
"Put your finger on any spot of the globe, and you will find a bishop of the Catholic ehnreh," Father Flood said.. "Are they not, then, as a group proof of universality. As an individual, Bisbop Graner, a native American, bishop of the diocese of Dacca, India, exemplifies that universality." 
Dacca is the center of extensive mis­sions conducted by the United States province of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the province of Beng;aL . 
^ 5%il 
J* 
Hi 
m 
.^^' 
. The Notre Dame Aliinmus 

The Commencement Address 
By General George C. Kenney, LLD., '47 
"Are We to Survive as Free Citizens .. . or as Soulless Cogs?" 
Famous Air Strategist Asks 1947 Graduates; Quality of Our . Leadership Will Determine the Answer .He Tells Future Leaders. 
Today I am going to talk to you about creeds entirely at variance with the prin­Asiatic land mass to the United States. a problem. A terribly important prob­ciples npon which this country was Piloted and pilotless aircraft will pour lem. A problem of survival. Are we to founded. New words, new catch phrases their loads of atomic bombs, super-explo­survive as free citizens of a free coun­are dinned into our ears unceasingly. We sives, super-incendiaries or whatever try or as soulless cogs in a state ma­are told that a capitalist is some one to weapons of mass destruction happen to 
chine, paying allegiance to an alien phil­spit upon; that marriage and the home be in vogue at that time, on our cen­osophy administered by an alien dicta­are outmoded bourgeois institutions; that ters of population and industry. The ob-^ tor? It is a problem that confronts you, religion is the opiate of the masses. Un­jective would be to knock out our in- ^^ me, the United Sttaes—^the whole world. der such a state philosophy, nothing is dustry and with it our capability of pro­It is a problem that has two solutions. sacred but the dictates of the proletariat ducing the machinery and the weapons to carry on resistance, and at the same time 
One solution preserves the ideals for 
inflict so stunning a casualty list upon 
which America has stood for 170 years. 
the nation that it breaks the national 
What are those ideals? They are free­
willingness to endure further losses, and 
dom, justice, fair play, sportsmanship— 
thereby forces capitulation. The casu­
not just a lot of words but concepts based 
alty list would be counted in millions. 
on a deep and enduring appreciation of 
The proi>erty damage in billions. 
what is right and what is viTong—^the fundamentals of Christianity itself. If we shirk our responsibilities and ob­ligations as citizens—^if we relax our 
We Most Defend Our Ideals vigilance and neglect our defenses—this is the solution we will get and the United They are ideals for which we have 

States, as we now know it, will cease to 
fought two World Wars in the past 30 
exist. 
years. They are ideals for which since 
1775 a.million Americans have given We are a peaceful people. Through­
their lives. They are ideals which make out history we have shown that we are 
us the nation we are. We must keep willing to go to almost any lengths to 
them. We must defend them. We must preserve peace. We have signed the ^ , not shirk our obligations and our respon­Charter of the United Nations, we are sibilities as citizens of this country. It conscientiously backing the United Na­
General George C. Kenney 

is one of the countries of the world in tions in the hope that through this or­which we may live our lives according ganization nations will learn to adjust to the dictates of our consciences, speak which are proclaimed by the dictator their differences without resort to war. our thoughts according to the dictates of head of the party. No opposition, no dif­Yon hear people talking about universal our hearts, and worship at our altars ac­ferences of opinion are tolerated. They disarmament. There is no doubt about cording to the dictates of our faiths. If glibly use the word "democracy," but the it. We want peace—^but the price can be we want to keep it that way the price is meaning is not the same. Freedom as we too high. still eternal vigilance. know it, disappears. Justice is no longer the province of law—^it is to be admin­
Mlitory Keparedness Guarantee of Peace 
The other solution of the problem 
istered by the firing squad. 
comes as the final stage of a combined 
Until we have a far better guarantee 
political and military campaign. The WTien this fifth column has done its 
of security in this troubled world of ours 
technique is as old as history. Hannibal work and the victim has become suffici­
than we have at present, we cannot 
led his Carthaginians across the Alps ently weakened, military forces of the 
afford to let down our defenses. Today, 
against Rome only after his advance aggressor without warning launch a sud­
adequate military preparedness is our 
agents had spent a year of instilling den over-whelming attack and follow up 
best guarantee of peace. At the council 
anti-Roman propaganda and distributing with occupation. A new government 
table of nations the strong are listened to 
Punic coinage to the susceptible Gauls sympathetic to the aims of the aggressor 
—the wesdc are ignored. If we.-sufe in­
of Northern Italy. is set up and all opponents of the new 
capable of defending ourselves and the 
regime are shot or sent to the slave labor 
Hitler and Tojo in our times repeated principles for which, we stand,. those 
camps. 
the technique and really made the fifth principles will perish and we will perish A column famous. The first step is the If we are the victim, the attack will with than. We cannot lead in the strug­steady and organized sabotage of our come across the north polar basin, the gle for peace if we are too weak to fight ideals and institutions by infiltration of short air route from the European for peace. We want to live at peace with Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
2t 

m the rest of the world but we want that peace to be based on the fundamentals of freedom and justice—not a peace en­forced by a dictatorship whether it be Fascism, Nazism, Shintoism, Communism or any other "ism" which denies those fundamentals to the individual—which ignores the fact that he is a human be­ing, not a cog in a state machine. 
In the organization of our government, in the constitution of the United States, we have committed ourselves to a belief in God, to a series of rights and duties, to a theory of state control which pri­
. marily is to distinguish between liberty and license and to secure the rights of the individual. 
We Need Trained Leadership 

/% This is our heritage. It is a heritage 
** of freedom of which we have reason to be proud. Our history not only reflects that pride but it shows that if necessary we have been willing to go to war to de­fend our rights to that heritage. 
Sometimes aggressors seem to have been unaware of this or perhaps they had forgotten it. We must never forget it. 
The solution to national and interna­tional problems of this kind is determin­ed by leadership. If we have leadership which is intelligent, which is trained, which instinctively knows the difference between what is right and what is wrong and which is determined at all costs to preserve the freedom of the individual as well as that of the country, we get the right solution. The just solution—the 

^ peaceful solution. 
But if our leadership is weak, if it re­lies on the shifting sands of vacillation and compromise, if it assumes that everything will be all right simply be­cause we wish it that way, the awaken­ing is a rude' one. The aggressive creeds opposed to ours are promulgated and dis­seminated by real leaders with tightly knit organizations which they have built up to ruthlessly exploit the weaknesses of their intended victims and carry out their plans of world domination. Five thousand years of history furnishes us with a series of examples in which a ruthless, unscrupulous and ambitious but capable leader overwhelmed the poorly led or divided opposition. Alexander, Ghengis Khan, Napoleon, Kaiser Wil­helm. Hitler, Mussolini and Tojo are some of the names familiar to all of you. 

_. None of them was ever defeated by an 
^ inferior leader. They won until better leaders came forward to gain the final victory. Weak leadership gives us the wrong solution. It never bringrs us peace. 
It invites the Four Horsemen—War, Pestilence, Famine and Death. 
This leadership that I'm talking abont is not the leadership of just one man. It is the leadership of thousands or hun­dreds of thousands of men. In military forces the competent general or admiral must necessarily be a leader but he must be backed up by colonels, by captains, by sergeants, by corporals, all of whom must be leaders. In industry the presi­dent of the company, no matter what qualities of leadership he possessed, would be a failure without his managers and his foremen. In education, art, sci­ence, religion and politics the same rules hold true. 
I've presented the problem to yon. I've outlined the alternative solutions. I've pointed out the road to the proper solu­tion. That solution is going to be np to you and your thousands of fellow graduates in other universities through­out this nation who are now joining American society as matured, trained, and thinking citizens. You are the vig­orous, virile reserves that America relies on in her crusade to preserve for herself and for civilization this thing that we call liberty. 
•yVeneed your drive, your enthusiasm, the stimulation of your urge to get things done in a hurry. 
Youth made this country in the begin­ing. Youth has fought for it and pre­served it for us. We are depending upon youth to safeguard its future. Youth in the sense that I am using it, does not necessarily depend upon age for, regfard­less of the date of his birth certificate, as long as man preserves the mental ag­gressiveness, the vigor, the drive of youth,- he progresses. When he loses it, he stands still, he stagnates, he dies. When a nation loses the drive of youth it stands still, it stagnates, it dies. We need youth today, now. 
Heplacements Who Believe in the Cause' 
You have heard that said before; you will some day be saying it yourself to future generations. But it is neverthe­less true and with each succeeding gener­ation it will continue to be true. 
Your predecessors of previous genera­tions have fought the fight—^they have made mistakes—sometimes for a while the battle seemed lost—^but we still have a country well worth Irving in—well worth fighting for. 
Eventually those front line troops be­come worn out and exhausted. They need replacements—^replacements who believe in the cause, who have faith in our insti­tutions, who will fight to maintain them. 

You are those replacements. Ton have the edneation, the training, the belief, the faith, the backg^ionnd of Christian living and the heritage of freedom neces­sary to fight and to lead the fig^ for that most priceless of all possessions— peace with freedom and justice for alL 
Unfortunately, there are those who hold different theories. There are those who covet onr riches, who resent our in­fluence and, in order to advance their own creeds and satisfy thdr own person­al and party ambitions, would smash the'. power which onr resources and our heri­tage have given ns. 
Put Out Wodd Fii«a 

As a military man, I am primarily concerned with their defense. As tjhink­ing citizens looking at all the little bon­fires burning in this troubled world to^ day, I hope that 3n>n will share that con­cern. You are now part of the fire de­partment that is charged with keeping those fires from spreading to this coun­try. 
If trouble comes some of yon will join the armed forces. There the qualities of leadership, intelligence and technical knowledge gained at this university make you a potential force of inestimable value. The record of Notre Dame in pre­vious national emergencies is one to which we point with pride—one nx>on which we have come to rely if trouble should ever come again. 
Some of you will back up the armed forces as scientists, research men, doc­tors, farmers or grocers. You will pro­duce the machines and the tools of de­fense, the food and the means of trans­portation, yon will maintain the health and morale of the country, you will con­tribute team play and cooperation to the national effort.^ Without these services no armed force could long sdst. 
Your brains are the margin of victory that we have over the less intelligent, less educated, r^imented mass^ driven to battle by some future aggressor despot. 
We must never allow ourselves to get into a conflict of matching brute man­power against brute manpower. We would lose in such a struggle. We are only 140,000,000 in a world of two bil­lion. 
We do not win our wars by mass spending of blood. We use our free, cre­ative brains and the machines conceived by those brains to save our manpower. We stiU'i)dieve in the sanctity of human life. We do not call onr troops cannon fodder. 
(Continued on Fi^e 23) 
•The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The Baccalaureate Sermon 
By Rt. Rev. Msgr, William L Newton. LLD.. '47 
Noted Biblical Scholar Admonishes Graduating Class to "Sub­
ordinate Bodily Contentment to Your Intellectual Intellectual Interests to Vour Spiritual Nature and 
This is my prayer: that your cliarity may more and more abound in knowledge and in all understanding; that you may approve the better things, that you may be sincere and blameless, till the day of Christ, filled with the fruit of justice, which comes through Jesiis Christ, to tlie glory and praise of God.—Phil. 1, 9-11. 
How finely appropriate it is that we should be grathered here this morning for the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass, cele­brating a prominent element in the exer­cises with which your collegiate and uni­versity training is brought to a close. It affords you an opportunity of saying farewell to this great institution in the exalted atmosphere of religion which you have breathed during the years of your dwelling here. In this spirit, you can offer your expressions of gratitude through Him who is our victim of praise and thanks. And in this spiritual light also you can vision better the new life into which you are moving. Your gradu­ation is a transition to new obligations, some common to all, some proper to each individual. Your diplomas will speak of rights and privileges; favors which must be regarded merely as the support, the enabling principle, of the duties implied in your education. And with this there is given you occasion of renewing your dedication to the elevated life for which you have been so well prepared. 
Sodet; Looks to Giaduczies 

It is no less fitting that we who are privileged to assist with you at this Mass should be able to express our sentiments in- the same elevated way. Your par­ents, relatives and friends, who feel the successful issue of your studies is their own triumph; the friends of the Univer­sity, who look upon you as the fruit of a noble institution; the University itself, which takes such pride in you today: we all join with you in thanking God through His divine Son, for all you have received from His -bountiful hands, and we offer that same Son to the heavenly Father for your happiness and success in the future: I cannot help but feel that 
there is also a -wider audience of this event. All society, both civil and ecclesi­astical, into which you are graduating, is looking to you -with more than ordi­nary interest; yes, in the spirit of a great hope, 'a hope founded on what men of your character can do for the welfare of mankind. 
We all, therefore, send up to God this morning the prayer I have just quoted 
Bt. Bev. Msgr. William L. Newton 
from St. Paul. And our prayer is first of all that you may be enriched -with that knowledge and understanding which surpasses all human -wisdom; and then that you may reap the inestimable and abiding fruits of that knowledge. 
There is added confidence in our pray­er from the preliminary assurance that you are graduating from Notre Dame, an institution whose Catholicity is proclaim­ed in its dedication to Christ's mother. This means that you have had every op­portunity of growing in personal union -with Christ through that dispensation which Paul here calls "charity." You had already been favored -with election to membership in that kingdom which is an extension of the Person of Jesus Christ; you have here enjoyed unusual advantages and have been given every encouragemnt of deeper understanding 
 Life, and  Destiny." 
of the constitution of that kingdom, whose bond of loyalty is charity; you have seen the -truths of' that kingdom in the light of all knowledge, and -without those -truths there can be no integrated knowledge. Whatever you have learned, if yon have learned well, is now illumined and elevated by this charity. It is all related to your real life, that life that lives for God in Christ Jesus our Lord. 
With this confidence we pray that as you move from the school in which this life has been nurtured, you may continue the growth, and continue it by an en­largement of the knowledge and under­standing upon which it has been here founded. Scripture defines that knowl­edge for us very simply: it is to know God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent. 
Rcdse Our Thoughts to God 
It is the more necessary that we make this -the subject of our prayer, since so few of those whom the world regards as learned -will accept it; and since you will so soon meet face to face -with definitions which are contrary to it. A political philosophy that influences a good part of the world rejects it formally, much of the rest of the world practically. The secular world -will tell you that it is too other-worldly, that gi-ving such room to the supernatural -will deprive you of the efiBciency you must have in the natural order. Engaged as you -will be in pur­suits that are of a secular character, there -will be a temptation to listen to the objection; and in this listening there is danger. We pray you may increase in the knowledge that the world never lost an advantage from raising its thought to the things above. 
At the be^nning of our era a similar conflict . raged over the evaluation of knowledge; on one side stood the -wise of the world, on the other the Christian missionaries; pagan -wisdom opposed to divine. Philosophy was decadent, labor­ing with uncertainties rising from the conflicting interests of flesh and of soul. Philosophy had destroyed the pagan re­ligion; the flesh had destroyed Philoso­
M\ M 
A 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
phy. Into this confusion came the voice of Christ's apostles, proclaiming a new loiowledge undiscovered by human reas­on, aiid ofiering a new understanding of things never thought of by the human mind. Their message was the paradox that to gain life and happiness one must be indifferent to both life and its pleas­ures; that mankind could never gain what it ambitioned without giving up its earthly desires. They taught that in Christ and in Him alone could be found truth, because He is the perfect reflec­tion of the Godhead, the source of all truth, the norm of all reality. 
' We Aie Heading Into Seli-Destiuction 
We should not, perhaps, wonder that the ancient pagans, who prided them­selves on their wisdom, at first listened because the doctrine was curious, but then smiled incredulously, as they did when Paul preached at the Areopagus. What we wonder at is that men of this same pagan wisdom, this same intellec­tual pride, still smile incredulously at the doctrine, though they have before them the historical demonstration of its truth. Looking back over the centuries, all-should be able to recognize on which side real wisdom lay. The pride which in those days was seeking to build a happier world out of natural wisdom succeeded only in destroying what it had. It was left to the simple teachings of Christian­ity to piece together the fragments, to lay a new foundation, by joining reason and revelation, and lead men on to. a learning, a personal dignity, a happiness 

jf hardly conceivable to the ancients. May we not even now be contemplat­ing a renewal of this lesson? The world has rejected this higher wisdom, and is striving, as it always has, but now with amazing technical progress, to build Utopia. It has fired with its inventions the imagination of what human existence may become if only time will permit, tak­ing advantage of prevailing misery and uncertainty. And yet Christ's voice is gently but insistently warning that the world is rapidly losing its way, that the foimdations of our culture are being re­moved, that we are heading into self-destruction. Most thoughtful men, even those who are not of us, and who have not themselves found the answer, recog­nize that in spite of all our scientific de­velopment, in spite of what we call en­lightenment, our labors are but increas­ing the intensity of the fire that is con­suming us. We have, therefore, reason to pray that you who have learned in the school of Christ, may persevere, in that knowl­edge, and both in your own interest and in the interest of mankind, reap the fruit of that knowledge. 
1.
 We pray that you may approve. the better things. That, knowing the heirarchical arrangement of your inter­ests, you may subordinate bodily con­tentment to your intellectual life^ and in­tellectual interests to your spiritual nat­ure and destiny. 

2.
 We pray that in the pursuit of this destiny you may never waver or allow yourselves to be turned aside by the al­lurements of a lesser end. 


3.. We pray that this may be your striving till the day when Christ comes as your judge, to reward you according to the talents He has entrusted to yon, according to the use you have made of those talents. 
4.
 We pray that all through your journey you may continue to enjoy the rich outpouring of God's gifts, the fruits of a sanctified life. 

5.
 But most earnestly we pray that your lives, in whatever field they may be lived, will always be held in trust for God's praise and glory. 


All your gifts, all your opportunities, turn towards this end. Here in a special way rests the duty imposed on you by reason of your Christian election, by rea­son of your Catholic education; here lies the trust reposed in you by the Church; here lies the Universitjr's expectation of you; here lies the good you can do for your fellow man. 
The Spirit and the Person of Christ 
We are confident you will bring with you into whatever work you undertake the natural learning you have acquired in your courses. You will add to that the spirit of this University. But you have accomplished only a part, a small part of what you are capable of unless you have brought with you also the spirit and the Person of Christ. This is the prac-fc tical fruition of the knowledgfe of which we are speaking, of that knowledge and understanding we are this morning so earnestly praying for. 

We may well wonder whether or not, in God's plan, we are set for any great contribution to the natural order in which our labors will fall. But even though we should never meet with fame in this direction, we are set and set with full purpose by God to accomplish some­thing for Him. In the example we have of what Christianity has done for the culture and happiness of mankind, let it always be noted that Christianity spread and had this beneficient effect through the men and women who adopted its principles and lived its life. Through those who took on Christ and carried Him into the lives of others. 
^.eontemplatint; this great pqsalulity tluiV opens before men of yamr'd«tiim and devdbpment, we> most also J give thought to the seriousness of' its'^faiP­ore. It is not that the opportunity of good is missed, and that harm is done in a negative way. The harm is more often irasitive. A fine Catholic gentleman, bidd­ing an eminent place in his professidi^ strove valiantly to maintain Cbiistian ethical principles before his associates. His effort was largely fruitless; for jhls exhortation was so often answered by having the bad example of a Catholie pointed out 
We are^ then, this morning glorying in the successful completion of your course under Cathoh'e auspices, with .all this means for the qualifications yon boast of. We are praying that you may * ever grow in these virtues and be to yourselves and your God a sonn^ of praise and glory. The prayer is the more heartfelt when we vision the grav-" ity of your failure. But that in all things you may be gfuided by God's grace, we may conclude with those other words of Paul: 
For this reason we bend our knees to the Father of our Lord Jesua Christ, from whom all fatherhood tn heaven and on earth receives its name, that he may grant you from his glorious riches to b« strengthened with power through his . Spirit unto the progress of the inner. man; and to have Christ dweOtng through faith in your hearts; so that, rooted and grounded in love, you may comprehend with all the saints what ia the length and breadth, the height and depth, and to know Chrises love which surpasses all knowledge, in order that you may be filled unto all the fulness of God. 
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 21) 

Some of you will be serving this coun­try as administrative leaders. There may be a future president of the United States among you. There may be bud­ding cabinet officers. Congressmen, state governors, mayors of our cities. The op­portunities for leadership are endless. The application of that leadership is up to yon. We need it Yon can give it 
Yon are the hope of this .nation and this world. 
If you will continue to uphold the fun­damental ideals and principles for whieh this university and this country stand— we survive.' 
If you do not-^we perish. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Br BayiBond I. DonoTon. '42. JUsialaBt Dinctor d » » Public lafetmntiea 
ATHLETICS 
Paced by undefeated football and ten­nis squads, Notre Dame athletic teams compiled an impressive record of 58 vic­tories, 19 defeats and two ties during the 1946-47 schoolyear. 
After Coach Frank Leahy's nine game schedule was marred only by a scoreless tie with Army, the balance of the winter sports units followed suit with an im­pressive record of 20 victories and four defeats by Coach Ed Krause's Irish bas­ketball team and a mark of four wins and three losses by the Notre Dame fenc­ers. 
Spring sports teams left little to be desired by Notre Dame fans as Jake Kline's baseball squad had the best Irish season in eleven years by winning 16 out of 21 games. Coach Walter Lang­ford's tennis agg:regation, one of the best ever to represent Notre Dame, coasted to an unbeaten season in an eight-contest schedule. Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Bandy's track and field squad won five and lost three during both indoor and outdoor seasons, and the Notre Dame golfers, coached by the Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., won five, lost four and tied one. 
The Notre Dame baseballers jaunted to St. Louis on a brief spring training trip over the Easter vacation and came back with a record of four victories and only one defeat. The Irish nine defeated Washington University, 13 to 4; St. Louis University, 10 to 2; Concordia College, 11 to 2, and Parks Air College, 4 to 2. Their only loss of the trip was a 4 to 3 defeat at the hands of St. Louis University. 
After dropping a 11 to 10 decision to Michigan, Coach Kline's squad disposed of Wisconsin, 9 to 1; Northwestern, 4 to 2, and St. Thomas College, 10 to 2, before losing to Michigan State, 7 to 4 at East Lansing. The Irish regained their winning ways ho-.rever, by whip­ping Iowa, 3 to 2; Western Michigan, 6 to 5; Indiana, 7 to 0 and 10 t» 2; To­ledo University, 8 to 5; Ohio State, 7 to 5, and Purdue, 4 to 3, before losing to Purdue, 5 to 3, in the second half of a twin bilL 
The Klinemen gained revenge for their beating by Michigan State by pounding out a 10 to 2 win in a return game on Cartier field and then split their last two games with Western Michigan in the Commencement week-end, dropping a 7 to 3 verdict and coming back to win the season finale, 6 to 5. 
Tom Sheehan, veteran catcher, paced the Irish at the plate during the 21-game campaign with a lusty average of .382. Bobby Klein, co-captain and third base­man, was close behind with a percentage of .375, and second baseman Benny Koz-­lik was third with .352. Walter Mahan­nah, sophomore pitcher, headed the Irish mound staff with four victories and no defeats and an amazing earned run av­erage of 1.15. Freshman Jack Campbell and Junior John Creevey each won 3 while losing 1. 
Coach Walter Langford's tennis squad, loaded with pre-war stars, opened its season by defeating Western Michigan, 8 to 1 and followed with wins over Mich­igan State, 6 to 3; Wisconsin, 9 to 0; Purdue, 9 to 0; Michigan, 6 to 3; Ken­tucky, 9 to 0; Navy, 9 to 0, and DePauw, 9 to 0. 
In the first renewal of the Central Col­legiate Conference Meet since 1931, which was held on the Notre Dame courts, the Irish easily breezed to the team title by placing three performers in the semi-finals. Jimmy Evert, Notre Dam e captain, who was unbeaten throughout the season in singles compe­tition, walked off with the singles title by defeating his brother, Gerry, in the finals. The doubles combination of Bill Tnlly and Charles Samson handed their teammates, Jinmiy and Gerry Evert, their first loss of the season in the finals of the meet. 
In addition to the Evert brothers, Tul­ly and Samson, members of the unde­feated squad included Bob David, Joe Brown, Jim GidflSn and Ed Caparo. This marked the third undefeated season for Coach Langford since he took over as tennis coach eight years ago. 
The Irish golfers had an up-and-down season by capturing five out of ten sched­uled matches and tying another. After opening the campaign with an 18-to-18 tie with Kentucky and a 27-to-9 victory over Louisville in a triangular meet. Father Holderith's linksmen trimmed Wisconsin, 20 to 7, and Michigan State, 20% to 6%, before dropping a 21-to-6 ' decision to Michigan and a 20-to-16 loss 
to Purdue. 
After trouncing Detroit, 31 to 5, and Marquette, 20 to 7, the Notre Dame golfers lost close decisions to North­western and Minnesota to conclude the season. 
Prominent members of the Irish squad included Jack Fitzpatrick, Ray Bunan, George Stuhr, Everhart Schleck, Jim Besenfdder, Tom Dore, Tom Conley and Dick Seidell. 
The 1947 teonia team, undetealedia ^ffiA moldies daring the season and cham­pion ol the Central Collegiate Coalerenc* in a tonmameni conducted at Noire Dome over Commencement week-end. beeling, left to right. Joe Bram. Ed Capore, Copt. ]un Eveit. Bob David and Jerry Erett. Standing. Manager John Caemmerer. Chorlie Samson. Coach Walter M. Langford. lim Griffin and KU Tolly. 
^, 
_ 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
During the outdoor track and field sea­son. Coach Doc Bandy's charges com­pleted the athletic year by winning two triangiilar meets, finishing second in an­other, losing a dual aifair to Michigan State and finishing second in the Indiana State Meet. 
After dropping their only dual meet of the outdoor season to Michigan State, 75 to 65, the Irish tracksters scored 52 points to place second behind Indiana's 77 in a triang:ular meet in which Pur­due placed third with 34 points. Indiana scored 75% points to cop the Indiana State Meet, less than four points ahead of the Irish, who placed second with 71 5/6 points. Purdue was third with 56% points. Two Notre Dame outdoor records were broken in the meet—^Bill Leonard in the mile run and Capt. John Smith in the 120-yard high hurdles. No­tre Dame completed its regular season by tallying 79 points to cop a triangular meet over Bradley University, which fin­ished second with 48% and Marquette in third spot with 36%. 
Outstanding performers for the Irish during the outdoor season included Leon­ard and Lou Tracy in the mile, Smith in the hurdles, Jim Murphy and Comie Styers in the two-mile, John Johnson in the discus throw, George Sullivan, Luke Higgins and Floyd Simmons in the shot put. Bob Smith in the dashes, and the mile relay team composed of Steve Pro­vost, Ernie McCuUough, Eay Sobota and Dave Murphy. ' _ 
Head Coach Frank Leahy's Irish foot­

ball forces closed spring practice with ^ the annual Varsity-Old Timers match in ^ the Stadium, May 17. 
The varsity walked off with honors to the tune of 26-13, with the running of John Lujack, Connellsville, Pa., and the passing of Frank Tripucka, Bloomfield, 
N. J., thrilling the 10,000 spectators. Lujack started at quarterback, but was switched to fullback during the second half, and Tripucka assumed the master­mind role capably. 
Tripucka's superb showing loomed all the larger with the announcement early last month that George Ratterman, last season's No. 2 quarterback, had signed a two-year contract with the Buffalo Bi­sons of the All-America Professional Football League. Ratterman had with­

) drawn from school last semester and  was expected to return to complete his eligiblity next fall. 
At the conclusion of spring practice, 

A Coach Leahy announced the following selections for the traditional Frank E. Bering awards for excellent perform­ances: best blocking center, George Strohmeyer, McAllen, Tex.; best block­ing guard, William Fischer, Chicago; best blocking tackle, John Fallon, Alton, 111.; best blocking end, William Wight-kin, Detroit. 
John "Pep" PaneUi, Morristown, N. J., was named "most aggressive runner," and Russell "Pete" Ashbaugh, Youngs­town, O., was voted "most versatile." Lujack was the "best all-around quarter­back," and Michael Swistowicz of Chi­cago was the most improved squad mem­ber. 
Practice for the 1947 football season will be resumed late in August, at which time preparations will begin in earnest for the following schedule. 
October 4—Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh October 11—Purdue, at West lafayette, Ind. October 18—Nebraska, here 
October 
25—Iowa, here November 1—^Navy, at Qeveland November 8—^Army, here 
November 15—Northwestern, at Evanston, HI. November 22—Tulare, here November 29—Open December &—Southern California, at Los Angeles 
BOLAND NEW MONOGRAM HEAD 

Joe Boland, '27, popular announcer of WSBT, South Bend, a former Notre Dame line star, and former Notre Dame assistant coach, on June 1 was elected president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club at the organization's annual meet­ing held as a part of the Commencement activities. 
Other officers elected were Bemie Crim­mins, '42, vice-president and Steve Ro­nay, '27, secretary-treasurer. Bemie was a baseball and football star 1939-42 and is now a member of Coach Frank Leahy's staff. Steve, a pitcher of sote dmbagibt 
1926-27 seasons, on the ball team, ia now an English professor at Notre Dame. 
Approxiniately 75 former monogram winners attend«l the meeting which was held in the form of a luncheon in the University dining hall. Among those to. speak was Coach Leahy who outlined the gridiron prospects for the foitheoming 
NEW MIDLAND H>ITOR 

Dr. John D. Mizelle, associate profes­sor of Biology, has been appointed editor of the American Midland Naturaliat, dis­tinguished biological journal published at Notre Dame, it .was announced on May 6 by Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, direct­or of studies. 
Dr. Mizelle, who since Dec. 1, 1946,, has served as managing and - associate editor, succeeds Dr. Theodor Just, form­er head of the Department of Biology who resigned his post at Notre Dame last year to become chief curator of the Department of Botany, Chicago Natural History Museum. 
An authority on parasitology. Dr. Mi­zelle joined the faculty of the llniveTSity of Notre Dame in 1940 after serving for three years on the faculty at Oklahoma 
A. & M. College. He forinerly was an assistant animal parasitologist in the di­vision of animal pathology and hygiene at the University of Illinois. A native of Louisiana, he received his bachelor of science degree at Louisiana State Uni­versity in 1932 and his master of sdenee degree at' the same institution in 1933. He received his doctor's d^ree at the University of Illinois in 1937. 
On a busy May day a ccdl was aonndad to all Mas and giandseiis of : Notre Dame men on the campus and thefeUowiag relolivelr smcdl nnmbar oppaorad. {oi a photograph. Left to right ore: 
FIRST ROW: Josepk H. Byne, m . Gw m Wn»c^ WOHaa A. MiHi», Fad lUb*. J«ifk 
Pnll, Donnelly P. McDonald. Jr., Kiduid A. JiMJuaa, Jaats L. FcntiL SECOND ROW: DavM Harkert, Jiba D. Ktaaer. T>IMH a Wack Hash T. tmetr. Jr..' -' ' U 
Joseph A. Foley, Maariee F. tiak, Jafcm C OTIaaail. JT. .. THIRD ROW: Harold K. Pfaaairfn^ Fad A. Hadmii. Jaaafk BUmB, Aminw J. John E. Conrtney. Williaai Sbaaakaa. Ckarha M. ISaaA. Jr. ' ~ FOURTH ROW: GcMve C. Wittcried. Jr.. Lee J. Tasd. Jr.. Gcam A. Fattaiaa^ Jr.. ]
E. Cartier. Jr.. Wamn Cartier, WilUaK D. Gaidaa. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

That Boy of Yours 
By Thomas E. Braniff 

President, Braniff International Airways, Inc. (A radio address on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 14, 1947, in Denver) 
To you, the alumni of Notre Dame, wherever you may be gathered in honor of your Alma Mater tonight, whether in your homeland or on foreign soil, I ex­tend hearty greetings from this group of your friends in the beautiful city of Den­ver. This is a gathering of which you may well be proud. It is representative of the character and the spirit and the accomplishments of the people of the West. Here a new civilization was cre­ated from virgin prairies and majestic mountains but a single generation ago. Many of the men and women in this room tonight have played an important part in the creation of this Western Empire. College educations were confined to the privileged few in those early dajrs of the building of the West, but those few were leaders in the cultural and educational development of their communities.­
lale Without Venture Is Dull 

If I were to speculate on what you graduates of Notre Dame are reminisc­ing about tonight,' it would be safe to include—your professors, classmates, and heroes of the football field. Tou re­call with amusement the pranks and the buffoonery that help to make up the re­laxations of college life. But as an aft­ermath of all these joyful memories there comes .^.the period of serious reflection wheii k man reviews his life since leaving cdllege. 
iMost of you graduates of Notre Dame are doubtless married men with families. If you are, you probably think first of your happy domestic life, of the girl who has stood by you "for better or for worse," of the pride and comfort you have in your children. If you have boys, you either provided them with the priv­ilege of a college education at your Alma Mater, or you are planning to do so. 
Your, thoughts may turn to your busi­ness or professional life You may or may not have attained all your ambitious goals. But your fondest memories are not of the comforts you have accumu­lated in life. .Theyare of the struggles • you have successfully met,,of the difficul­ties which seemed insurmountable at the time, but were finally conquered, bring­ing you both prosperity and the respect of your fellow men. You have learned that the competition which prevails in our American system of enterprise pro­vides a challenge to the spirit of accom­plishment—a challenge that is as thrill­ing as was the contest on the football field. 
In these days of social experiment there are those who would substitute the deadening influence of "cradle to the grave" social security, and "featherbed­ding" for the risks you took and won. But life without venture would be dull indeed. You would not want your boy to be deprived of the incentive to make good on his own account, no matter how hard the path of success might be. The thrill of achievement is worth all the sacrifice it might entail. 
In fact that boy of yours has probably already gone places and seen things. If so, experience and observation have been his teachers. If he was among our mili­tary forces abroad during the recent war, he has returned home with a fierce determination to protect our system of government. He may grumble at the housing shortage, or the high cost of liv­ing, or some other temporary after-war dislocation of our economy, but he would not trade our way of life for any other in the world. 
Keep Alive Principles of Tolerance 
He is shocked to find that while he was away, the followers of an alien gang have so entrenched themselves among us as to threaten to undermine our system of government. A gang of racketeers who would destroy our freedom of wor­ship, the sanctity of our marriage rela­tionship, the freedom of the press and ballot, the rights of property, and all the privileges of democracy as we know and cherish them, and substitute a philosophy of materialism under the domination of a foreign tyrant. 
He: has seen with his own eyes the re­sults of the. evil ambition for power of ruthless dictators. He has seen the effect of spreading the delusion o.* racial su­periority and the venom of racial prej­udice. In one instance alone he has seen the propaganda of hatred climaxed by the ruthless extermination of six million Jews. . 
He has learned that there are at this time approximately 850,000 displaced persons in the American and British occupied zones of Germany, a majority of them Christians, resisting deportation to their native land because persecution and slavery and death await them there. These are the things which have created in the breasts of your boys a firm de­termination to keep alive the principles of tolerance and brotherhood which still exist in the United States. 
Son Has Better Opportunity Than Father 
Your boy has inherited a staggering federal debt which must be borne by him and his children and those who follow them. He is handicapped by income tax laws which limit his accumulations of capital and place a discouraging influ­ence upon the incentive to strive. But he accepts these conditions as the inevit­able aftermath of war's wastefulness. Their cure provides a challenge to his resourcefulness and he is confident of his ability to overcome them. 
In a recent survey conducted by a reputable magazine of wide circulation, the young men of America have gone on record as believing they have a better opportunity than their fathers had. And strange as it may seem, a lesser percent­age, but nevertheless a substantial ma­jority of the fathers agree with them. Youth may not be fully aware of the extent and difficulties of the problems that face it, but you fathers know the will to win is there, and after all, what generation in America has not overcome obstacles relatively as great to them as those that confront the present genera­tion. That is the history of the strength and the character of America. 
You and your fathers found your opportunities in the pioneering of the West and the building of America. To­day there is a new challenge and broader opportunity for this generation in the 
(Continued on Page 55) 
Volume 25, No:.3, June,: 1347 

Denver Banquet Highlights U.N^^^^ 
(The observance of the 24th anmial Universal Notre Dame Night, on April U, was doubtless the "biggest and best." For confirmation of that statement you have only to read the chib news which follows, and look at the numerous club pictures. The Alumni Office extends warmest appreciation to all the chibs which participated so notably in the Night, and especially to the individuals within the clubs tvho carried the burden of the day. To the Denver Club especially thanks are due for a,major accomplish­ment. Pattl Santo tells about it in the story here:—Ed.) 
Monday, April 14, 1947, was a red letter day in the history of the Denver Notre Dame Club, as members and friends of the University gathered in Denver, the capitol of the Rocky Moun­
in Empire, in observance pf the 24th annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The celebration and coast-to-coast broadcast Monday night climaxed a week-end of entertainment. Sunday Night, April 13, the Denver Club played host to Harry G. Hogan, president of the Alumni Association, at a meeting in the Trophy Room of the Denver Athletic 
By PAUL R. SANTO, '41, Secretary, 
Notre Dame Club of Denver. 
club. Mr. Hogan at that time outlined plans of the Alumni Association for the coming year. 
Monday night, 750 alumni and sup­porters of Notre Dame were present in the Lincoln Room of the Shirley Savoy 
THOMAS E. BBANIFF 

hotel to hear and see the Rev. John 
J. Cavanaugh, CS.C, president of the University of Notre Dame, and Thomas 
E. Braniff, president of Braniff Inter­national. Airways, principal speakers for the eveiiing. 
The banquet began with grace by the Most Rev. Urban J. Vehr, DJ)., arch­bishop of Denver. Immediately follow­ing, Milton Shrednik and his orchestra played the Notre Dame Victory March. The group also entertained during the dinner. 
. Robert Dick, a past president of the Denver club and chairman of the banquet committee, welcomed the distinguished guests and friends to our celebration. He in. turn introduced Eugene Blish, who introduced the distinguished guests to all present. Mr. Blish is our retiring presi­dent and a member of the Board of Di­rectors of the Alumni Association. 
:' Don Miller, toastmaster, is one of the Four Horseman and present United States District Attpniey for the nortteni district of Ohio and chairman of the National Juvenile Delinquency Ccm­mittee. Mr. Miller introduced those sit­ting at the speakers' table: . 
^ ­

Outstanding leaders in the field of religion, education, industry and awic aBtdxn gather before lb* noBonal headquuilets eb­serronce of Universal Notre Dame Night in Denver. Left to right: Hon. J. Foster Symes. 'United Stales distiiet Jadge; Toastmdsler Don Miller, former member of the immortal Four Horsemen, and now-United States district ottemey-iar Mesfteni OfaiQ; Hon.' Wm. Lee Kaous. govemor of Colorado: the Most Bev. Urbon I. Vehr, DJ)., archbidiop. of Denven Ber.'Iahn J. Onaumgh. CS.C. fnA­dent of Notre Dame; Thomas E. Braniff, Dallas, president of Braniff International JUrwoys; George W. Stroke. Hanslon. Tncasi tmsia* of Notre Dame: Harry Gt. Hogan, president of the Alumni Association: and Frank Xeahy. director of atUetieai-' ' 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

The Hon. Wm. Lee Knous, governor of the State of Colorado, welcomed to Denver Universal Notre Dame Night and its distinguished guests from other states and from Notre Dame, Gov. Knous in closing his welcoming address said: "'V/e trust that this will not be the last time that Colorado is chosen to play host for the headquarters of Universal Notre Dame Night." 
Mr. Braniff was then introduced. His address to the radio audience is presented in full elsewhere in this issue. 
Following Mr. BranifF, Don Miller gave a brief survey of the work being accomplished by the National Juvenile Delinquency Committee. He stated that he was remaining in Denver to conduct a meeting of the Mountain States sports writers. 
Father Cavanaugh gave a significant address on God and the atom bomb. Said Father Cavanaugh: "Universities must accept the task of training youth for moral responsibilities as well as scientific know-how. The universities must fulfill their responsibility of emphasizing God and the moral law or mankind will perish through the weapons which the univer­sities helped develop. 
"^^^lile many university scholars have contributed much to the material welfare of mankind, some also have sowed seeds of mischief in the minds and hearts of men by ignoring spiritual values." 
Frank Leahy was then introduced. In his address on the coast-to-coast broad­cast, he pi-aised the school for maintain­ing high standards of scholastic excel­lence. 
"It is a sincere satisfaction to the coaching staff as well as to our faculty when a Notre Dame team takes the field in any sport to know that each member has a scholastic average of 77 per cent or above, an average which is seven points higher than the required passing grade." 
The banquet was brought to a close by grace said by Father Cavanaugh. 
We are very greatful to our Colorado newspapers for the kind publicity given to our banquet. Many feature stories and pictures were published prior to and im­mediately following our celebration. 
.A.lso, we wish to thank the many dis­tinguished leaders of religion, business, and civic affairs who contributed so greatly in making our banquet a success by their presence. 
Some of those present were: The Most Eev. Urban J. Vehr, D.D., archbishop of Denver; The Hon. Wm. Lee Knous, Gov­enor of Colorado; The Hon. Ben F. Stapleton, mayor of Denver; George W. Strake, Houston, Texas; Floyd P. Ogden, 
Preceding Universal Notre Dame Night in Denver two Denver Notre Dame men talk with Bev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C., executive assistant to the presidehL Jerome Mathews, class of 74, believed to be the oldest Notre Dame alumnus 
now 93 years young—recalled early Notre Dame history with Alexis Coquillard (center) '40, whose family founded the city- of South Bend and welcomed Father Sbrin to the wildemess of northern Indiana in 1842. Alexis Coquillard bears' the name oi his grandfather who was the first student at Notre Dame^ 
president Mountain States Telephone and 
Telegraph Co., with Mrs. Ogden; E. Ray 
Campbell, president Denver Post; Ben H. 
Parker, president Colorado School of 
Mines; E. E. Mickelson, president West­
ern State College; Lloyd Yoder, mana­
ger, KOA, president of Eotary; Thurs­
ton Da vies, president Colorado College; 
Rev. John Flanagan, S.J., president 
Reg^is College; General Thomas Lowe, 
Commanding General, Lowry Field; 
Caleb F. Gates, Denver University; 
Qiiigg Newton, chairman. Board of 
Trustees, D. U.; Eugene O'Fallon, 
manager KFED; Thomas J. Morrissey, 
United States District - Attorney of 
Colorado; Hon. J. Foster Symes, United 
States District Judge. 
Balfimore 
Under the chairmanship of FRANK HOCH­REITER and his able committee, the club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night at a Monte Carlo party at the Bonnie View Country Club. Eighty-three couples enjoyed the .iffair, of whom forty-one couples were Notre Dame men and their wives. Numerous prizes were given to us by local merchants and the bidding for them ran high; thus making the evening a financial success as well as a thoroughly en­joyed affair. LEWIS J. O'SHEA 
Blue Wafer District 
The Blue Water District club has elected the following officers: WILLIAM L. WILSON, president; GRANGER WEIL, vice-president; and JOHN LEAHY, secretary-treasurer. This group will serve temporarily. We are planning an organizational drive to obtain as many mem­bers as possible within our district. Meetings for the entire membership will be held on the first TVeanesday of every month. Several din­ners, too, have been planned during the course of the summer season, for members and their wives. The club will grant memberships to some of the outetandlng citizens of this district. It was decided that the members would in­formally attend Mass and receive Holy Com­munion every first Friday at the Catholic Church In Port Huron, Mich. BILL WILSON 
Boston 
It is a pleasure to report that the club held a dinner dance on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Myles Standish Hotel in Boston. We had a real Notre Dame atmosphere since we were graced with the presence of BEV. GEORGE B. BENAGLIA. CS.C. REV. RICH­ARD H. SULLIVAN, C.S.C., and MAJOR FITZGERALD, CS.C, who was in our vicinity for his parents' 50th wedding anniversary. 
The membership of the club owe their most enjoyable evening to the following committee members; . ­
JOHN V. MORAN, FRED HOGAN, I;RAN K REILLY and JOHN VAUGHAN. 
Frank Beilly did an exceptionally fine job of seeing to it that we ail heard the broadcast originating from Denver, and also in arrang­ing for us to hear a recording of the flglit talk as given by Rockne, while we had a large pic­ture; of Hockne projected on a screen. This last "feature stirred up fond memories of the older men and brought to life the legend of the great Rock for the younger men. 
We also owe. a vote of thanks to the local outlet at the Mutual Broadcasting System WNAC who went to the trouble to have the broadcast transcribed and then rebroadcast for our benefit and tile residents of Metropolitan Boston. ' JOHN HERBERT 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
Bulfalo 
Great * educational advances are being made at the "University of Notre Bame, MOST REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C.. bishop of Buffalo, told more than 200 attendants at the 24th an­nual Universal Notre Dame Night in tlie Hotel I^fayetto. 
A former president of the university. Bishop O'Hara said plans call for establishment of an Institute pf aiedieval Studies at Notre Dame to rediscover the history of the past in order to avoid the pitfalls of the future. "The last two wars," the bishop offered, "have shown us there has .been a total disregard of the lessons of history. If we are to have peace on earth, the real lessons must be learned." 
Bishop O'Hara gave the principal address in the absence of THOMAS F. BYRNE of Cleve­land, honorary president of the National Alumni Association. 
With Bishop O'Hara at the speakers' table were Most Rev. Joseph A. Burke, auxiliary bishop of Buffalo; Very Rev. Francis 1«, Meade, president of Niagara University; Ver>' Rev. Thomas Plassman, president of St. Bonaventure College and Mayor Bernard J. Dowd of Buffalo. 
Toastmaster was the Rev. John F. Donahue, O pastor of St. Patrick's Church, Limestone-
Canal Zone 
Our local celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night went off smoothly, with the exception of the worldwide broadcast which we were unable to receive on the radio. 
We had a banquet at the Panama Golf Club, which is located on the outskirts of Panama City on a hill overlooking the Pacific Ocean. About 20 persons attended, but this represented a cross-section of alumni ranging from a doctor­ate of the class of 1914 down to last June's bachelors. 
It was recently announced here that DR. • ROBERTO A. JIMENEZ, '14, has been ap­pointed to be Panama's anibassador to Bogota. Colombia. For the past two years he headed Panama's delegation to the United Nations. 
J, H. HARRINGTON 

Chicago 
The grand ballroom of the Knickerbocker was the scene of the club's celebration of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Four hundred and fifty members and their guests attended. REV. JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, was the principal speaker. 
JAMES KEARNS, former Chicago Journalist and now head of a publicity firm in Chicago, was toastmaster. Speakers included: ELMER LAYDEN, JIM CROWLEY, JACK ELDER, CHUCK COLLINS, RED ilAHER, iL\RTIN J. COSTELLO, "97, the oldest member present, and RAY MEYER. 
Three features niade this banquet an enjoy­able one for those attending. The new arrange­ments included (1) increasing the visiting time and decreasing the speaking time, (2) arrang­ing the tables according to classes, and (3) definite reduction in cost of tickets. The success of the party was the result of the un­tiring efforts of Chairman BARRY O'KEEFE and his able assistant, BOB O'TOOLE. 
COL. JOHN P. "JOCK" HENEBRY, an avia­tion executive, presented trophies to TOM GRADY, handball singles champion of the club, and to RAY^ McGRATH and JACK BUCKLEY, winners of the doubles matches. 
The officers for 1947 are: PETER E. KEAR­NEY, honorary president; THOMAS S. McCABE, president; JAMES R. CRONIN, first vice-president; J. BARRY O'KEEFE, second vice-president; J. RAYMOND DONLAN, treas­urer; and ROBERT LONERGAN. secretarj*. 
• The governors are: JOSEPH D. SHEULT,­WIU.IAM. "RED" MAKER. ARTHUR C WEINRICH. WILLIAM J. DREMMAIf, BRUCE HOLMBERG, R A T M O N D McGRATH, CHARLES a COIXINS, JOHN C. BUCKLEY, LEO J. POWERS, and JOHN SHOWEL. 
Col ufflef Disfrict 
Our club met to celebrate XT.N.D. Night at the Roby Inn. in Hammond, and to listen to the broadcast from Denver. 
As this was our first meeting since the war, considerable discussion was given over to re^ organizing the club and to developing a pro­gram to provide more activities and create greater interest. The re-organization move­ment was furthered by FRANCIS METER'S re­port of his week-end at the president's meet­ing held at Notre Dame last fall. 
It Was decided to hold another meeting at a later date for an election of officers and DAN LY^CH, presiding as president, appointed a committee to set a date for election of officers. The committee: AUSTIN BOYLE. Whiting, chairman, AMBROSE McGINNIS, Crown Point, chairman, FRANCIS MEYER, Hammond, chair­man. IKE LOWER. Gary, chairman, and JOHN WALLACE, chairman of East Chicago. 
FRED SOLMAN 

Central f/finois 
The club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner in the Bltnols hotel. Springfield, attended by 30. including a large delegation fsom Decatur, 111. Rev. James Snd­des. Catholic diocesan director of the propaga­tion of the faith, and WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, assistant alumni secretary, were the principal speakers. 
Following the dinner the club listened to the national broadcast. Two films, one of the cam­pus, the other of the 1946 football highlights, were shown. 
Officers elected at the meeting were: NICK AMRHKIM, president; DICK NEESON, vice-president; and JOE CHURCHMAN, secretary-treasurer. 
Cenfral New Yark 
with REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY, C.S.a, rec­tor of the new Farley Hall, at the helm, the "tJ. S. S. Syracuse" steamed'into port, with over 50 Notre Dame men aboard for the an­nual celebration of Universal Notre Dame night at the University Club of Syracuse- It "was the largest gathering In the club's 24-year history and doubled last year's representation. 
LEO D. KELLEY, national director of the Alumni Association, was the first speaker and he explained the new program of the association and emphasized the Importance of the alumni fund. The vice-governor of the Alumni Associ­ation for the state of New York. JOSEPH R. BRANDY of Ogdensburg. was the next speaker. Mr. Brandy traveled over oner hundred miles to attend the banquet. MARK E. MOONEY, president of the club, read committee appoint­ments, discussed future plans, and introduced the principal speaker of the evening; Father Barry, former Syracusan. army chaplain, and now director of students activities at Notre Dame, told the club members of the present in­tellectual and spiritual program at Notre Dame and the changes that post-war problems have brought to the campus. JOHN H. TERHY was chairman of the dinner, assisted by Mr. Mooney, Mr. Kelley, MR. VANSWALL and HE^JRY M. KIRK. JR. Mr. VanSwall was foastmaater.. 
'-•' Father Barry, principal speaker ot ibe eve­ning, was also a guest of Glenn WUilazn^;* local broadcaster, on his interview show over Radio Station WAGE of the American chain. The nation-wide broadcast from' Denver was heard over Mutual Network by the entire m,ember8hip 
Among those at the Universal Notre Dame Night observance in the Hotel Lafay­ette. Buffolo. were: seated. Bishop John F. OUara. C.S.C. Buffalo, left prindpal 
© speakeR and Bishop Joseph A. Burke. DJ>.. ouxilioiT bishop of Buffalo. Standing. Don W. tove. left, president of the club, and the Bev. John F. Donahue, pastor of St. Patrick's Church. Limestone, who was toostmaster. 
: TKe No&erDcnne" Alumnus" 
Notre Dame alumni in the Cincinnati 

present, through special facilities, despite the 
telephone strike. 
BILIi CATE trucking company manager, was booking Army-Xotre Dame game transporta­tion. JACK lIcAULIFFB. local club director, held a committee meeting, after having been appointed chairman of the June alumni-student party, with B. W. KENEFAKE, JAMES HUX­FORD and BILL KELLEY. 
In conformity -with the newly adopted con­stitution, Mr. Mooney, president, announced the appointment of the following committee chair­men: REV. JOSEPH B. TOOMET. Religion and Citizenship Comraitee; HENRT T. HICKEY, publicity and public relations committee: JOHN 
E. M'ADLIFFE, preparatory- school contacts commitee; FREDERICK T. DEL.\XT. JR., job counselling committee: JUSTIN" CORCORAN; finance committee: H.-Vtt'LET E. VANSWALL, membership committee. JOHN H. TERRY 
Cfficinnofi 
The club joined in the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Nigrht at beautiful Hyde Park Country club. Elaborate preparations had been made for weeks in advance by our capable chairman, DICK SCAX.11.AN. The entire Coun­trj* club, includingp bowling alleys, main dining room and recreation room, was turned over to us. Dick was assisted in the details of arrange­ment by JACK BRODBERGER and BOB LEONARD. 
Festivities began with bowling matches. Some of our more prominent bowlers, along with their "handicap-anchor-men", paired oft to compete for the well known prizes that usually 
 area relaxed on Universal Notre Dame Night by staging a bowling party. 
accompany stag parties. And there were many noticed before leaving that MARC FIEHRBR, other activities. president of the Hamilton, O., club, along with 
At 11 o'clock the entire group assembled in his delegation had somehow cornered HOWARD the main dining room to hear the broadcast ROHAN and BOB SIcCAFFERTT and elected over the Mutual Network from Denver. After­them Pin boys "ox officio" for the balance of the wards, an excellent buffet dinner was served. I evening. JOHN C. COTTINGHAM. 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas, assembled to celebrate Universal NJ>. Night. This is on informal shot token after the dinner. 
Cleveland 
The club held its annual elections the week of May 12 with the following results: HUGH 
M. O'NEILL, president; JOHN F. COLEMAN, vice-president; "WILLLA.M SrULLlGAN, treas­urer; and FRANK J. McGRODER, secretary. 
The club is looking forward to a very success­ful year under the guidance of these men. 
JACK COLEMAN was chairman of the Rock­ne Memorial Communion breakfast. It was one of the finest affairs we liad during the year. DAN DUFPT was master of ceremonies. FATHER JOHN MURPHY, C.S.C., vice-presi­dent, gave a splendid talk on KNUTE ROCKNE. Other speakers were DON MILLER and STAN COFALL. 
A very successful Easter dance was run off under the chairmanship of ED. SCHROEDER. 
FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, C-S-C, presi­dent of the University, addressed the Chamber of Commerce here May 20. There were quite a^B 
number of Notre Dame men attending, the 
Pre^dent of the Central New York Club, Mark Mooney, looks over a record gath­
luncheon and they heard Father Cavanaugh 
ering at the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration at the University club, Syracuse. give a verj- powerful talk. TOM ENRIGHT 
Dallas 
A record crowd assembled for ob39rv;-,nce of Universal Notre Dame Night in Dallas. The newly appointed board of dir*;ctors Includes ART SIMPSON, D. P. BUELI,. W. A. DEPFER­ARI. J. J. FOLEY, BILL GRADT, BERNIE HABERER, J. M. HAGGAR, JlJt ."iWIFT, and JISI '\VALSH. At the election of otl'cor.? tor the comingr year, the president, WALT FLEM­ING, and secretary, CHARLIE METER, were drafted as hall carriers for another year while JIMSIIE SIMjrONS, ED HAGGAR and DAN FOLEY joined the group as vice-presidents. GEORGE BECKER will serve .is treasurer. 
Dayton 
A record attendance was on hand to partici­pate locally in observing Universal Notre Dame Night. Guest of honor was JOB GAVIN, *3X, new head football coach at the University of Dayton. 
A dinner was held in the George "Washington room of the Miami Hotel. Following the meal the annual election of club oflicers was held. BILIi HOYNE was elected president to succeed JOHN FERNEDING. DICK POHI/ was voted secretary-treasurer, replacing JOHN FOCKE. 
The new oflicers arc planning a party to be held June 7 at the Towers in Dayton. SIcmbers and their wives will enjoy a chlcken-in-the­rough dinner and plenty of entertainment. 
JOHN FERNEDING 

Detroit 
Universal Notre Dame Night was a busy one for the Notre Dame Club of Detroit because it was on this night that our new oiricers were installed. They are JOE BACH, president: BERT BAUR, JR., first vice-president; DAN BRADLEY, second vice-president; MAL KNAUS, secretary; and ED HICKEY, treasurer. The oflicers were chosen by our new Board of Directors wliich Includes, in addition to the ofli­cers. HENRY J. CLARK THEODORE FELD­MAN. NORMAN J. FREDERICKS. MATTHEW 
P. GARRIGAN, JOHN T. HIGGINS. THOMAS 
G. KAVANAGH, FRANK J. M'GINNIS, THOM­AS J. MORAN. GEORGE B. MORRIS. JR., EDWARD C. RONEY. JR., GILBERT F. SCHAEFER. THOMAS SHEEHAN and HARRY 
B. STILLMAN. 
The spo.iker for the evening was our own HARRY F. KELLY, past president of the Alumni Association and retiring Governor of ^lichigan. He gave an inspiring talk to some 110 dinner guests. 
^ President Joe Bach announced the major activities for the year which Include: July 1, golf at Jleadowbrook Countrj- Club; Aug. 2, pic­nic at Anhut's farm; Sept. 24, luncheon, pre­season rally; Oct. 23, dinner and veteran's night; Nov. 1, football. Navy at Cleveland; Nov. 8, football. Army at Notre Dame; Nov. 23. bingo, Book-Cadillac Hotel; Dec. 7, Commun­ion Sunday: Dec. 27, Christmas Dance; Feb. 13, 14, 15, 194S, Retreat. Manresa; April 5, Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
MALCOLM F. KNAUS 

Des Moines 
Tht club haa had two recent meetings, the first being the Inauguration of the monthly First Friday luncheon meeting held ilarch 5 at the Savery Hotel. At this time the new constitution was adopted, and It now appears that the program is In full swing. 
On April 14, Universal Notre Dame Night, the Des Moines group again met at the Savery Hotel for a buffet supper, movies, and to hear FATHER CAVANAUGH In his nation-wide ad­dress. Due to a conflict in programs and the cooperation of KCBC, Des Moines' new radio station, a recording was made and put on the .air a half hour after the regular broadcast. This program was arranged by the Program Committee, headed by HARRY O'BOYLE. 
J) The annual Drake Belays dinner for the T^Iotre Dame track team went off In fine style. Coach "Doc" Handy Introduced his track squad 
to the members attending the dinner. LOUIS F. KURTZ 
ForfWoyne 
The club held one of the largest meetings in our history in commemoration of Universal Notre Dame Night. The affair was held in the Chatterbox Room of the Hotel Anthony, with the wives and friends of the members as guests. About 150 people were in attendance. 
Dinner was served at 7:30.P.M., and after that President, PAUL SAGSTETTER called the meeting to order. A letter from HARRT HO­GAN. national president of the Alumni Asso­ciation, was read, since Mr. Hogan was in attendance at tlie celebration in Denver. He was ably represented by ilrs. Hogan, who also delivered a short talk to us. 
The main speaker for the evening was Father Leo Pursley, pastor of St. John The Baptist Church in Fort "Wayne. "We listened to the broadcast from Denver, and then games were played for the balance of the evening. 
Election of onicers for the coming year pro­duced: BERNARD KEARNS, president; JEROilE O'DOWD, vice-president; THOMAS SUELZER,. treasurer; and BERNARD NIEZER, secretarj*. BOB O'BRIEN 
Hiawathaland 
The club met at the Ludington Hotel in Es­canaba, Alich., to observe N. D. Night. We had a grand dinner in the Marine Room of the Hotel. Eighteen of the boys were present. 
"We elected officers for the year. They are: NORMAN BARTHOLOMEW. Iron Mountain, president; M. N. SMITH. Escanaba. vice-presi­dent; ROBERT LEMIRE. Escanaba, secretary*; and HENRY LAUERMAN. ilenominee. treas­urer. BOB LEMIRE 
Houston 
The club had a fine meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night. The program originating in Den^'er over the radio came in verj- clearly and we thoroughly enjoyed the evening. 
'We were indeed fortunate in having FATHER J.OSEPH RICK, C.S.C, with us. He is the first priest to be ordained from the city of Houston and has been in India for 18 years. He gave us a very interesting talk about India and held an open forum after our meeting and answered all questions regarding his missionary work. 
I feel certain that our club Is going to be more active as the days go by. 
R. CONROY SCOGGINS 

Indianapolis 
The club joined with other Notre Dame clubs in the observance of Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner in the Green Room of the Indianapolis Athletic Club. One hundred and twenty two members of Indianapolis and vicin­ity heard WILLIAM H. KONOP, the general chairman, introduce the speakers. Most Bev. Paul C. Schulte, archbishop of Indianapolis, and FATHER THOMAS J. BRENNAN, C.S.C., of the Department of Philosophy at Notre Dame. 
It was most gratifying to the club to see the large turnout of the fathers of present stu­dents and past students of the University, as well as the number of guests that attended with club members. 
We topped off the evening by tuning In on WIBC to pick up the Mutual broadcast from Denver. At 10:45 that same evening we had our own broadcast over the same local station, with MIKE REDDINGTON handling the narra­tion. 
We are all still wondering how the handball game turned out between FATHER BRENNAN, AL SMITH, JOHN FORD and JOHN O'CON­NOR, who all slipped away to the Athletic Club court between broadcasts. Our first informal spring dance was held on May 13 at the South­ern Mansion, ROBERT M. FITZERALD, was the general chairman with the following mem­bers serving on his committees: 
Reservations—GHARRY E. SCOTT, SR., CHAS. 
D. GREENAN. JOHN F. SHIEL. HENRY K. ENGLE, JAMES E. ROCAP, JR., PAUL J. SMITH and WALTER J. STUHLDREHER. 
Tickets—LEROY J. KEACH, JR., FRED L. MAHAPFEY, EDWARD F. GRIFFIN, JOHN J. CAREY, WILLIAM E. KENNEDY. JR., ARTHUR J. SULLIVAN, and JOHN T. ROCAP. 
Out-of-town Guests—CHARLES E. DELL. JAMES P. CARSON, GUS a CYR, and JOSEPH 
P. HILGER. 
Music—JOHN D. H.\RRINGTON, THOMAS J. UJIPHREY, JOHN J. O'BRIEN, GEORGE T. O'CONNOR. PAUL C. DEERY, EDWIN T. KIL­RAIN, and WILLIAM H. KONOP. 
Decorations—^HARVEY G. FOSTER. JOSEPH 
G. BECK, J. ALBERT SMITH. DAVID J. CON­NOR, G. DON SULUVAN. JOHN W. HANNON, and ROBERT J. LOUGHERT. 
Publicity—JAMES G. N^EWLAND. WILLIAM 
A. DONNELLY, CURLY ASH, NICHOLAS J. CONNOR, B. MICHAEL FOX. and JERRY SHINE. 
According to Bob the dance attendance would 
Retiring president, Paul Sagstetter, with bade to camera, eenfais with iia«rtr elected officers of the Ft Wayne Club on Univaraal Noira Dama IGghL Left to right: Sagstetter, Bemie Keams, president: Tom Snalsar.' traaanrar and Bamia IGaser. secretary. 
A glance across the speakers table at the Indianapolis observance of UJU). Night reveals left to tight. President Pat* Fisher, Archbishop Paul C. Schulte, Bill Eonop, BeT. Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.. and Joe Beck. 
have been much larger if the mid-week baby sitter problem hadn't reared its ugly head. 
Another Indianapolis Notre Damer climbed into the local limelight on May 6; AL PEENEY. former football center and teammate of the late KNUTE ROCKNE, received the Democratic nomination for mayor of Indianapolis. Al's political career started back in the early "SOs when he founded and became the first head of tlie state police system in Indiana. His next venture was that as sheriff of Marion County (Indianapolis). 
Plans are being formulated for a club family picnic to be held sometime in July and of course lor the annual golf tournament in August. 
XICK CONXOR 

Kansas Cify 
The club held a meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night at the Phillips Hotel. Oflicers who took office were: THOiLAS REARDON. president; JOSEPH STEWART, vice-president; JOSEPH VAN DYKE, secretarj', and THOMAS HIGGINS, treasurer. 
VINCE DECOURSEY, outgoing president, de­serves plaudits for reorganizing the club after the war. 
The club has outlined many activities for the coming year. These activities were read to the members and met with hearty approval. "We were unable to hear the Universal Notre Dame Night program over the radio but pictures of the 1946 Notre Dame-Army game were shown and enjoyed by all. JOE VAN DYKE 
Kentucky 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner dance 'at the Colonial Gardens. 
A fine turnout of fifty members and their guests were treated to a most enjoyable even­ing, climaxed by the broadcast from Denver and the election of club officers. 
The officers elected for the coming year were: WILLIA;^^J. WOERNER, president; PATRICK 
S. GREENE, first vice-president; JOHN "W. MCKENNA. second vice-president; JAMES CARRICO, treasurer; OTTO J. MILETI, secre­tarj-. OTTO J. MILETI 
LoCrosse, Wi$. 
The •GIF'ly 'formed Notre Dame club of La CroSg'^ifevea Its first Universal Notre Dame Night with a banquet and meeting at the Hotel Stoddard. Various committees were appointed by President JOHN A. ELLIOTT and plans were discussed for a football trip.via air. This foot­ball committee is headed by FRED FUNK. 
The Most Reverend John Patrick Treacy, co­adjutor bishop of the La Crosse diocese, accept­ed the duties as spiritual advisor of the club and gave a brief talk. He also extended an invitation to'the club for Communion breakfast at his home early in May. 
The following officers have been chosen by the club: ARTHUR S, FUNK, honorary president; JOHN A. ELLIOTT, president; FRED FUNK, vice-president; JOHN A. RAU, secretary-treas­urer-
On the board of directors are: AUGUST M. GRAMS, DICK PEARSE, JOHN ELLIOTT, R. 
F. BARTL. JOHN RAU. and D. F. Hyde. JOHN A. RAUL 
Los Angeles 
Some two hundred and fifty members of the club met at the Rodger Toung Auditorium to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. The meeting was presided over by TOM ASHE, the younger brother of GERALD "KID" ASHE and ED ASHE. He presented ^'^RN RICKARD of the Class of *24, who was the leading- man for the Duncan Sisters of the "Topsy and Eva" shows 'way back in the middle 'SO's. An un­usual program had been arranged by the com­mittee headed by VERN RICKARD and through the efforts and acquaintanceship of LOU BER­ARDI. (Some of you may have met him at what 'Xife" chooses to call "The Poor Man's Night 
. Club." Schwab's Pharmacy on the famous Hol-Ijrwood Strip. All the stars frequent this phar­macy, of which Lou is the pharmacist and \ assistant manager.) 
Lou arranged the program, which Included Dennis Day; William Frawley, who on occasion has played the part of Rockne as coach; Eddie O'Brien, of Winged Victory fame; Jimmy Burke, and the famous comedian and enter­tainer, Danny Tiiomas. Pat O'Brien was the toastmaster and we enjoyed what In Hollywood is referred to as "a million dollars worth of talent." However, the show was "stolen" by the Kev. Vincent Lloyd Russell. Father Rus­sell has been heard on the "Catholic Hour" from time to time, taking the place of Mon­slgnor- Sheen. . . . such professionals as we had on the program, not to mention some of our Notre Dame greats In the moving picture industry, such as ALLAN DWAN, were im­pressed with Father Russell's ability, message, subtle comedy and his sincerity. 
To complete the program we had a message from the Hon. JOSEPH SCOTT who, despite the fact that he will be eighty years old on the IGth of July, shows little evidence of losing any of his exuberance and ability. 
Those who are interested in our membership ^ who obtained prominence in the public service ^ may recall CLARENCE J. DERRICK, class of '14, of the Board of Public Works of the City of Los Angeles, and MICHAEL D. FANNING, postmaster of Los Angeles. 
We were fortunate in having Pat O'Brien who, -although a graduate of Marquette, has been so indoctrinated with Notre Dame lore after playing the part of Rockne in the moving pictures, that he feels quite at home at Notre Dame gatherings. 
The full slate of new officers: TOM ASHE. '31, president; GENE CALHOUN. '33. secre­tary and treasurer; WILLIAM CORR, *33, first vice-president; VERN RICKARD, '24. second vice-president. 
Board of Directors or Governors: Three-year term: TOM ASHE, GENE CALHOUN, ED ASHE, and LEO WARD. 
Two-year term: ED CUNNINGHAM. VERN RICKARD, PAT SHEA. JOE O'NEILL. 
One-year term: BILL CORR. CHARLES GASS, JOHN M'ARDLE, ED HOGAN and TOM FOYE. LEO B. WARD 
Memphis 
New officers of the club, elected on Universal Notre Dame Night, arc: JERRT (T. J.) FOLEY, president: PHIL M. CANALB, JR., vice-presi­dent: DORSEY MATHIS, JR., secretary; and I^RRY THOMPSON, treasurer. 
The new La Crosse Club met on Unimwd Notre Dame Night with these present: front row. left to right Fred Fnnlc. '46. JUthnr S. Fimk, "OB. John A. Elliott '25. Back row: Joseph W. Murphy. '27, John W. Harfcaer. '37. Robert F. BortL '27. Richard Pearse. '47. Karl A. SchaetUe. '25, Albert P. Fnok, '40, and Dorid F. Hrde, 'W. 
Volume 25, No: 3, June, 1947 
The Los Angeles club honored Bev: John J. Coranaugh. CS.Cu president of the 0nl¥isity. widi a iBiMJbH geles on March 11. Pictured here is part of the crowd of 400 people who took port in the aficdr. 
Milwaukee 
The club held a Communion breakfast on March 30 to honor the memory of KNUTE ROCKNE. REV. GEORGE "WELSH, C.S.C.. offered the Mass at the St. Charles Boys Home and the Brothers of Holy Cross and their charges were excellent hosts. 
We were unable to go through with our .original plan. of participating in the Chicago observance in representative numbers. How­ever, JOHN CLAUDER, CHARLES O'NEILL and JIM KARR went down for the meeting. Hasty preparations here in Milwaukee brought 14 members to the home of DICK O'MELIA, where the broadcast from Denver was heard. 
On May 6 the club met at Marine Hall and chose the following oflficers for the coming year: TOM DEXON, president; CHARLIE O'NEILL, vice-president; NEAL GLEASON, secretary; and DICK O'MELIA, treasurer. MARK PFALLER and FRED KELLER were selected co-chairmen of a dinner-dance August 2 at the North Shore Country Club. BILL SCHALLER has general charge of a picnic and 
• golf tournament to be held sometime this summer. HAROLD LANGTON. assisted by CLIFF BUCKLEY, will draw up plans for a fall athletic event. RICHARD McMAHON was appointed chairman of the public relations com­mittee, while retiring president JOHN CLAUD­BR will help organize other alumni units in the state of Wisconsin. 
' The club, too, is looking forward to the dinner it will sponsor in honor of this year's Lactare Medal recipient, - William George Bruct, K.S.G. Although indefinite the dinner, it is hoped, will be held some time in Septem­ber. TOM DIXON 
MonongoAe/o Valley 
We held our Rockne Memorial Communion Breakfast in Donora on April 10. We attended Mass at St. Charles, Father Fitzpatrlck being the celebrant. One hundred and fifty-two men received Communion. Breakfast was served in St. Dominic's Recreation Center. 
JIM RUSSELL head coach of Donora High School, served as toastmaster and he did an excellent Job. KEN STILLEY came down from St. Bonaventure's to give the group some fine 
. stories of the real background of Notre Dame football. The other speakers were ED DEAN, club president; John Houlihan, business man­
ager of the Pittsburgh Steelers; Dan Hamill, 
> outstanding Catholic layman from Pittsburgh; Tommy Preston, Donora High School principal, and Father Fitzpatrick, pastor of St. Charles's In Donora. We topped off the xnomlng- with the football highlights of '45 and '46, via the films. 
The club met again for Universal Notre Dame Night at Johnson's Restaurant in Monessen, Pa. Fourteen members, along with their wives and friends enjoyed an excellent turkey dinner and a short program. Father Owen J. Klrby, pastor of St. Leonard's Church In Monessen gave the principal address. JIM DEVLIN 
Montana 
The club met in the Round Up Room of the Finlen Hotel, Butte, in honor of FATHER ROBERT SWEENEY. C.S.C.. executive assistant to the president of Notre Dame, on March 29. 
ED SIMONICH. president of the club, ex plained what was being done to reactivate the club. He particularly stressed that it was to be statewide, and not merely for Butte alumni. Initial steps to reorganize were taken In Butte only because there were more Notre Dame men In that area. Activities and meetings are to be moved about the state at the convenience of the members. 
The business meeting terminated when the following new oJIicers for the year were chosen: EDWARD SIMONICH. president; BERNARD GRAINY, vice-president; and ROY E. MUR­RAY, JR., secretary-treasurer. 
Father Sweeney gave a short talk on the activities of the national alumni organization. Following this he showed films of the Univer­sity and football highlights of 1946. 
It was decided not to hold a general meeting on Universal Notre Dame Night. Instead, mem­bers In various localities throughout the state were to gather in small groups to observe the occasion. The next general mteting will be held in Great Falls In August. JOE MORO­NICK was appointed chairman of this meeting. 
ROY MURRAY 

Naugafuck Valley 
In its first real meeting since Its reorganiza­tion, the club met in Waterbury to observe Universal Notre Dame Night. Fifteen vets present. 
On May 5, there was an election meeting in the Elks Club with the following results: presi­dent, D. FRANK MURNANE; vice-president, JOE ROBINSON; secretary-treasurer, JAMES SCIGLIANO; and directors, BILL ANDRES. ROBERT DUBOIS, JOHN ROURKE. JOHN CIANCI. FRANK HURLEY, TOM SCALLT, JOHN M'GUINESS, HAROLD HANLON and NORB HENEBRY. Rev. John J. Sullivan, of St. Peter and Paul Church, was elected chaplain of the club and was the principal speaker of the May 5 meeting. 
It was decided to ask for a charter under the name of The Naugatuck Valley Club, which will replace the former Waterbury Clnb. 
Horfken CalHormia 
Some forty men gatliered for dinner in Saa Francisco's Whitcomb Hotel for traditional "sociability" and powow on Universal Kotre Dame Nlsbt. BIU« BTBISB presided and wa saw a fine film from the Universitr. DICK BtTITE gave ns a quick and elfectlye resmae of bis meeting on campns witli the club presidents last fall. 
The clnb elected officers as follovrs: president. JOHN yr. CARET; vice-president. •WTTJiTAH TORE; secretary-treasarer. J. R. HAVU^AND. Directors, one year, KEENE FITZPATRICK ~ and BODIE ANDREWS; directoia, two Tears, SLIP MADIGAX and WHJJAX BTRNE; di­rectors, three years, HAI. EIiWARD and JIH PHELAN. 
With this essential business ont of the way, we explored the pleasares of the memben.re­garding fntnre pxograms and meetings. No agreements were reached, nor was it expected that we would—but ideas were advanced which we will try to crystallize in-a forthcoming directors' meeting. JOHN W. CARET 
Northen New York 
Eighteen members of the club gathered at the Franklin Hotel of Halone, N. T. on ITniver­sal Notre Dame Night, marldng the first tlma in nine years the club had assembled. -I n the absence of president, RAU>H CABDINAIi, MITCHET.Ti C. TACKLET presided. 
County Judge CORNEUUS J. CARE^T, JR., was elected president for' next year. Rev. Russell O'Nell, assistant pastor of St> Joseph's Church in Halone, and the REV. DONAIJ) GAUiAGHER. of Lyon Mountain, spoke. 
Sxiecial guest of the evening was the noted foreign correspondent and lecturer, H. R. Knickerbocker. Following the meeting a round-table discussion on current subjects, was held with lir. Knickerbocker in charge.'. 
Present at the meeting were K.- R. -MA­GUIRE; HENRT II. UAGmRE; lOLTON J. VALOIS; JOSEPH DAIGNEACLT; C. J. CARET: T. J. McKEE; FRANCIS CARTBR; LEO G. FACTBAU; HARRT W. LANTRT; NORUAN LANGELIER; BERNARD BURNS; ALBERT SETMOUR; H. C. TACKLET: ALVIN 
J. McKEE: MARSHALL FRE9IETTE: FATHER ­GALLAGHER; and FATHER O'NEIL. 
New York CHy 
The clnb met for a dinner at the -Hotel-Commodore on Univeraal Notre Dam* Night to hear Capt. Eddie Slckenbacker, president of Eastern Airlines, speak on "To Keep America . a Free Land for Free Men." 
"Although no bombs are dropping- or cannons roaring, "we arc, for all practical purposes, at Wj^r, the Tvar of nerves," said Capt. Rtcken­backer, a veteran of two World "Wars. He continued: "The best peace insurance we can carry is a policy of strength on land and sea and in the air—a strong Army, Navy and Air Force on hand and In being backed by intense research In laboratories and actual experiments. The Russians know as well as we do that if there is a next war it will be known as the war of know-how. Let us be so far ahead of the rest of the world in new weapon develop­ment and ready striking power that any nation that pulled the trigger of aggression would only aim, bullets at its own head." 
The 250 members and friends at the dinner also beard Coadjutor Archbishop X Francis A. Mclntyre and Dean James E. McCarthy join in on the concerted attack on Communism. 
Archbishop 31clntyre complimented Captain Rickenbacker on his line speech and emphasized the position of the Church in its opposition to Communism. 

Beginning on a note of nostalgia which re­counted the exploits of "RED" McIXERXEY of Corby Hall who wired the plumbing system for sound, and running through many of Notre The visit of Hairy G. Hogan, '04, pcesideiit o{ the Alunmi AModatioii, in PortlancL M 
Dame's traditions. Dean McCarthy ended his 

Ore., was the occasion of this dinner in biM honor. Bfr. Koqan is seated at the right, 
address by reminding all present that they were fitted by Notre" Dame to combat Commun­betwen Frank Lonergan, a classmate, ond Bev. Theodore Mehling, C>S.Cw president ism because they had been taught that the 
of the University of Portland. 
state existed to serve the indlvidual-At the reception preceding the dinner the New York City Police Glee Club Quartet was 

ural firm of Wogan, Bernard and de la Vergne The annual party observing Universal Notre well received • for its renditions of old and in New Orleans. The other officers elected at Dame Night was held at the Downtown Club popular ballads. FRANCIS "BUGS" "WALT­this meeting were: A- L, VITTER. vice-presi­in Newark. 
HER and his ensemble supplied a pleasing 

dent; JOHN A. RILEY, secretary; LEONARD 
musical background, preceding and during din­Speakers included JOSEPH JI. BYRNE, Jr., 
A. NALTY, treasurer. The following were 
ner. EDWARD A. BRACKEN sen'ed as chair­a lay trustee of the University, DR. PAUL man of the dinner committee. and Father Augustine, editor of "Sign Maga­
elected to the Board of Directors; BOLAN BURKE, JOSEPH DROLLA, C. A. SPORL» 
zine." Father Augustine's topic was "The JUDGE WILLIAM A. WALSH, of the club LIONEL J. FAVRET and BILL JOHNSTON. 
Catholic Press." JOE McKEON recently dug up from his wealth of souvenirs two things of Interest to the general alumni. Our new president has suggested some fine 
One is the original menu of the Second Annual activities to keep up the spirit for the coming 
Oftio Valley
Dinner of the Notre Dame Club of New York, year. Such things as a summer picnic and a which was held Saturday, December 17, 1904, fishing trip should get the club ott to a good The theme of Catholic leadership was the at Healy's Restaurant in New York City. The start and from there on, we are expecting a thread running through the program at the 
other is a newspaper clipping of the Annual year filled with some very worthy accomplish­Ohio Valley club's Universal N.D. Night ob­
servance at the Windsor hotel. 
Dinner held April 20, 1911, at which the guest ments. JOHN A. RILEY speaker was FATHER JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, The theme was developed by principal speak­former president of the university. Both of ers: Rt. Rev. John J- Swintz, bishop of Wheel­these souvenirs have been presented to the ing, W. Va.. and RT. REV. JOHN KING MUS-
New Jersey 
Alumni Office for safekeeping. SIO, bishop of Steubenville, O., and by FRANK 
The club elected officers for the coming year WALLACE, author and vice-president of the 
at the meeting held May 5. Those chosen in­Alumni Association, who was toastmaster fo^ Eastern Kansas clude: GEORGE MELINKOVICH. president; the program. m^ CLIFF TALLMAN, vice-president; RUSS JAN-
Thirty members of the club turned out for a Out of a possible 40, the club had 38 mem-" 
DOLI, secretarj-; and CLARK REYNOLDS, 
delicious steak dinner in obsen-ance of Universal bers present for the April 14 get-together. Some 
treasurer. Two members were also added to
Notre Dame Night. The meeting was held in traveled as far as 50 miles to get to Wheeling. 
the board of directors. They are: GEORGE 
Leavenworth. At least 15 of the group came from 15 to SO 
PLAIN and EDWIN KIRBY. 
miles. All this from a club that had not held After a short business session, we saw two a meeting in seven years. 
reels on the Highlights of the 1944 football Following a short business meeting, DAN 
season. Following the movies we tuned In on O'NEILL discussed several plans about running Further activities planned by the club in­
the broadcast from Denver. DAN FOLEY a special train to the Army-Notre Dame game clude dances, picnics, sectional meetings, and 
this season. attendance at N. D. football games-
New OHeans 
This has always been a very informal group of alumni who usually get together every Uni­versal Notre Dame Night and possibly one or two other times a year. For the past two years, however, the club has received a new spark of life, with every one pitching in to welcome the Notre Dame teams and friends when they came to New Orleans to play Tulane- CHARLES DE LA VERGNE and BILL DREUX, the two successive past presidents, are to be congratu­lated on the fine work they have done In awakening this sleeping club. The climax oc­curred on this Universal Notre Dame Night when President Bill Dreux, in his last oflicial act, read his draft of a proposed club charter. With a few revisions. It was adopted unani­mously by tlie membership present. 
The election of officers under the new chart­

er was then held and Mr. Patrick B. Burke, Thirty-eight of the 40 members of the Ohio Vcdley Club participated in the ob­
'88, was re-elected the honorary president of 

servance of Universal NJ). Night at a banquet in BeUaire, O. Pictured here is the 
this group. Mr. Burke Is one of the .oldest alumni of Notre Dame. He-has for many years head table. Left to right Louis Eich, Tom Hov^ey* Frank Wallace, Bishop John J. been honorary president or active president of 
Swintz, of Wheeling, W. Va^ Bishop John IL Mussio, MJL, '25, of Steubenville, O., 
our club. The new active president is JDLES DE LA VERGNE, a member of the archltect-

Edmund Sargus, president of the club; W. H. Hogan; ond William Yaeger* secretary. 
JOHN' J. PIXZ6ERAU>, chairman. Fresldant 1^ Oregon iriiATTGBI.IM, I^O ITAIAON. JOE ITDON­ALD,^' JR., THOUAS SBPE, ANDREW 
On March 21 a diner, and meetiner was held at the Sfultnomah hotel Iti Portland to hear FATHER ROBERT SWEENEY, executive as­sistant to the president of the TJnirersity. A good number were present including FATHER MEHLING, president of Portland University. 
DR. RAI^H PRAG. president of the club. In­troduced Father Sweeney, who gave a very in­spiring talk outlining to all present the hap­penings at Notre Dame and the aims of the University* Father Sweeney acted as narrator 1946 football season and colored pictures of the during the showing of moving pictures of the Notre Dame campus. 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Night in Portland. The following were olect«>d officers for the next year: BOB MOLIN, presi­dent; ED SANDSTROM, vice-president; JIM REVTLLB. secretary and LEE SHANMCN. treasurer. The board of directors Includes: RAIJ*H PRAG. BH ^ SCHMITT. REV. THEO­DORE MEHLING, C.S.C.. BARNEY MacNAB and FRANK LONERGAN. 
k On April 18 a dinner was given at the Uni­
'versJty Club by BILL SCHailTT In honor of HARRY HOGAN of Ft. "Wayne, Ind... president of the National Alumni Association nho was visiting in Portland. Mr. Hogan addrassed the group and outlined some of the major objec­tives of the association. 
Mr, Hogan appointed BILL SCHMITT gover­ron of Oregon, Washington, Idaho, and Alaska. Mr. Schmitt addressed the group and thanked Mr. Hogan for the governorship. 
JIM REVILLE 

Peorio 
The Peoria Club was to meet on Universal Notre Dame Night, according to advance In­formation from ALEX SLOAN, president emer­itus. New ofHcers are: DAN HECHT. president; JOHN SCHERBR, vice-president; JACK KING, secretarj-; and EUGENE WHITE, treasurer. 
Phoenix, Ariz. 
The club celebrated Universal Notre Dame 
^Nleht with a meeting at the K. of.C. Rail in Phoenix. The club, in addition to electing officers, listened to the radio program from Bonver. 
Oflicers for the year are: JOHN P. JOYCE, president; TOM O'MALLET, vice-president; ROBERT D. KENDALL, secretary and treas­urer. Board of Directors: GLEN J. ilcDO-NOUGH. TOM O'MALLET, BILL MAHONBT. REGIS J. FALLON, M. E. TRUDELLE, and DR. C. F. RISSER. 
ED BEINOR, former AU-American, has taken over the head coach's position at .St. Mary's High School in PhoenI:c. JOHN P. JOTCE 
Puerto Rfco 
Several members of the Notre Dame Club of Puerto Rico got ' together in mid-March to observe the visit of the president of the Alumni Association, HARRY HOGAN. and his wife. Mr. Hogan appointed PAUL McMANUS as district governor of the Alumni Association for Puerto Rico. While our alumni group here Is very small, we are certain the membership will unite behind Paul In working up a progressive organi­zation. One of our aims is to offer a yearly 
Rcholarship to some deserving student from 'uerto BIco. 
During the Hogans" stay in San Juan, they visited with BOB BEAUDINE, a commander in the United States Navy. BOB FORBES 
Horry Hogan. president oi the Alumni Association, and his wile, vis­ited Puerto Hieo in March of this yeor. At Sonturce this picture was snapped. Left to right: Father McKeough. Mbs. Paul McManus, Harry Hogon, Mrs. Hogon. and Paul McManus. '34. 
Rhode Island and 
S. E. MossocAuseffs 
Unliersal Notre Dame Night was observed by over 200 members and guests of the club at Johnson's Grille, Providence. The observance was combined with a testimonial to JOHN S. M'KIERNAN. '34, lieutenant governor of the state of Rhode Island. 
Speakers included REV. THOMAS C. DUFFY, C.S.C., superior of the Eastern Mission Band of the Holy Cross Fathers at North Easton, Mass.; REV. RUSSELL J. MoVINNEY, club chaplain; Dennis J. Roberts, mayor of Providence; JOHN 
J. M'L.\UGHLIN, president of the club; and SIcKiernan. CLEJI GRIMES was the toast­master. 
The guest of honor was presented a class ring, to replace one lost while serving in the armed forces, a leather swivel chair and a gavel bearing an appropriate inscription and the seals of the University and the state of Rhode Island. 
The committee arranging the affair included 
' M-MAHON, JOHN iriNTTRE. CXEMENT GRIMES, CORNEUDS SHACKETT. JACK BRADY and RUSS BUNT. 
Plans have been started for the annual stmi­mer dance to be held Jane 5 at the Hetacomet Golf Club. RUSS HUNT 
ftocAesfer, N.T. 
The scholastic side of Notre Dame was em­phasized at the alamnl observance of Universal 
N.D. Night in the Sheraton Hotel REV. PHiUP S. MOORE. as.C, dean of the Grad­uate School, told of the great future possible in new fields of education at the Universlty.­
Bishop James E. Kearney of Rochester urged the alumni always to be true to the tradition of the "University of Our Lady." Other speak­ers included Rev. William Dnsgan. O.S.B.. prin­cipal of Aqninaa Institute and Federal Judge HAROLD P. BURKE. HARRY WRIGHT served as toastmaster and DON SCONFZEin was in charge of arrangements. 
Mr. and Mn. ^Hne* DoUaid. "SS, oi Rochester..N. T. Befara the wedding tfrs. DoUard woa Jean Boyd, innca's brother. Gene, a student at ND . serred as best man. irinle Bill Whole­han. '39. was on usher. 
Dan Young, left. receiTing Philadelphia dob's "man of the yaat** owoid ol th* annual celebration of UniTersal Notre Dame IGght. Dan Hcdpin. master ol cere­monies, is shown presenting the scroll at the Penn-Shemten HoteL Others shown are: Ed "Moose" Krause. basketball coach: PMsidenI Charies Conley; HOT. WilHam Scandlon, C.S.C.. vice-president of Eng's College, ])filiEes-Barre. Pa., ond Father Charles Mahoney, C.S.CM choplain of the dub. 
Joining in Unirersol Notre Dame Night the club in Rochester, N, Y., at a dinner in the Hotel Sheraton, heard, these speakers: Bishop James E. Kearney (center) ivith the Rev. Vf. J. Duggan. C.S3., principal-of Aquinas Institute, (left) and the Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., dean of the Graduate School at NJ>. Standing ore Joe Geraghty. club president, Toastmasier Harry Wright and Federal Judge Harold P. Burke. '16. 
Rock River Valley Toledo 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Universal Notre Dame Night was observed in niebt with a dinner meeting at "White Pines Toledo at the Hotel HillCrest Tower Room on State Park Lodere. There were 34 members April 14. present. 
A large crowd attended with several out of Following the dinner, business details were town guests. FATHER LEO R. "WARD, aS.C, taken care of and tentative program of activi­was the principal speaker and was, as usual, ties arranged for the coming year. 

very fine. 
The new officers are: DON HENNESSEY, president. Sterling; CLIFF HTL..AJMD. vice-Plans were made for a Communion-breakfast, president, Rockf ord; PAUL PRY, treasurer, sometime in June. R- J. MITHEN Dixon; "WARREN "WAHL, secretar>% Sterling. 
Tentative arrangements were made to resume the annual picnic in August. JOE BITTORP Tri-Stofe of Sterling has offered the facilities of his sum­mer cabin on Rock River for the occasion. 
The club held a meeting in the Hotel McCur­dy, Evansville, Ind., in observance of Universal Movies highlighting the Notre Dame football Notre Dame Night. The meeting was attended season were shown by DR. DAVID aiURPHY by some thirty alumni and the feature of the of Dixon. "WARREN P. WAHL 
evening was a southern style chicken dinner. The principal speaker was LYLE MILLER, attorney of "Vincennes, Ind. The theme of Mr. Saginaw Valley Miller's talk was the furtherance of the func­tions of the Notre Dame alumni club and the 
The club held a smoker on Univcrs-il Kotre building of a stronger alumni group. 

Dame Night and an election of .'fficcrs. Th^ following were elected for 1947-194»: JOSEPH Plans were proposed for regular bi-monthly GODDETNE, president; CAKL DOOZAN', vice-meetings with the next meeting tentatively president; Jill KAVA^'AUGH, 5ecrct:ir>-­arranged for June 16 in Robinson, 111. Plans were also made for the club to sponsor a con­Board of Directors: HEKB SCHXBTTL.EH, 

cert by the Notre Dame Glee Club on April 25 ED JIAHAR. GERALD CARROLL, and WIL­in Evansville. 
LIAM HURLEY. TOM VAX AARLE 

The following were elected new officers: FRANCIS J. HENNEBERGER, president; 
St, LOUIS 
BERNARD P. "WITUCKI, first-vice-president; WILLIAM BRADBURY, vice-president; ED­Universal Notre Dame night was observ'ed WARD E. ilATTHEWS, secretary; and BER­in conjunction with our annual Monte Carlo NARD W. UNDERRINER, treasurer, party. 
EDWARD E. MATTHEWS 

The party was a success, with close to 200 people in attendance: prizes varied from a 15­pound ham (won by BERT CODGHLIN.) to a Triple Cities pair of live, white mice Cwon by FRED MCNEILL'S wife.) BOB HELLRUNG, vice-The club held a dinner meeting at the Arling­president of the Alumni Association, presented ton Hotel In Binghamton in observance of Uni­AL RA"VARlNO, retiring president of the club, versal Notre Dame Night. HUGH DEVORE, with a twin pen set. A small inscribed placque director of athletics and head football coach at on the base expressed the thanks of the mem­St. Bonaventure College, was the principal bers for Al's fine work during the past year. speaker. The members of the club and their The newly elected officers were presented. They guests enjoyed the highlights of the Notre are as follows: FRED "WEBER, president; Dame 1945 football season as related by Hugh. FRED McNEILL, vice-president; JACK GRIF­REV. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY. director of Cath­FIN, treasurer; JIM O'NEAL, secretary. olic Charities for the diocese of Syracuse, vaa 
JIM O'NEAL the toastmaster for the occasion. Father Too­mey, with his poise, brilliance, wit and humor, 

kept the affair moving at a rapid pace. ' 
JOHN P. DONNELLY, Broome County Demo­cratic chairman, was the general chairman for. the meeting. John personally conducted Hugh on a tour of the Southern Tier, and certainly did a swell job. Mayor Walker Lounsberry of Bing­hamton was an honored guest. 
President JIM HOGAN welcomed the honored guests and the friends of Notre Dame, and in a short address, emphasized the spiritual, cul­tural, and intellectual contributions of Notre Dame to the development of our country. Jim also reported on the conference of local club presidents and cleared up some of the questions on such problems as enrollment, endowment, and the distribution of the football tickets. 
The officers for the coming year are: presi­dent. JIM HOGAN; vice-president. FRANK SULLIVAN; secretary-treasurer, JIM McCABE. 
The six directors chosen by the committee are: REV. JOSEPH TOOMEY. JOHN REAR­DON, GEORGE J. HAINES, JOHN L. MUR­PHY, JOHN DONNELLY, and PAT QUIRK. 
Twin Cities 
The club assembled In the Brunswick Room V^ of the Andrews Hotel in St. Paul to observe Universal Notre Dame Night. After dinner Toastmaster LOU REGAN put PAUL CAST­NER. DANNY COUGHLIN and LUIS GODOY, '31, of Havana. Cuba, through the paces. 
Godoy brought to 'the States his Cuban featherweight champion, Miguel Aceuedo, who was to test the tough and veteran Minnesota contender, Jackie Graves. 
A treasurer's report by LEO MAUREN fol­lowed, and Its black ink nature sounded a pleas­ant note. Following this the film highlights of the 1946 football season, was shown. The mem­bers, after the film, elected BOB ROGERS, president; MARTY 'RED' DOLAN, vice-presi­dent; FRANK BIAGI. treasurer; and GENE DELAY, secretarj*. 
The unexpected but most welcome stopover for FATHER SWEENEY In the Twin Cities pro­vided an occasion to gather on April 1. Work­ing smoothly and caring for our comfort belilnd the scenes at the Hotel Radisson was JERRY CONWAY. Father Sweeney had the football highlights film of the *46 season.—Thus we had a sneak preview of the films shown again on Universal Night. BILL GUIMONT. with the help of guest sportscaster Rollle Johnson, ^n^ ^ efficient Swede, got the Fighting Irish films%^ under way. The exciting sound track came from Father Sweeney. 
The sudden notice of the meeting didn't deter a lot of N.D. men from appearing. A friend of Notre Dame, the veteran stage and screen actor, John Boles was guest of JERRY CON­WAY. GENE DE LAY 
Utah 
The club have held its annual election and the new president is JACK "W. GALLIVAN. whose address is 1017 Kearns Building, Salt Lake City. 
We were unable to arrange a special meeting for Universal Notre Dame Night because of the fact that a number of the members of our club were unable to join us. All were notified of the broadcast and we have heard a number of very favorable comments regarding It. ' 
PHIL J. PURCELL. JR. 

Wabash Valley 
The Notre Dame alumni of the W'abash Valley took advantage of Universal Notre Dame Night to hold a re-organization meeting and election of officers. Those voted in were: EMMETT FERGUSON, president: BIL] SCHRADER, vice-president; and DR. KEN­JO NETH LAWS, secretary-treasurer. 
WALTER LANGPORD. head of the Depart­ment of Foreign Xjanguages and coach of the tennis team at Notre Dame, was guest speaker. 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
In a vivid address he informed club members of present activities—religious, intellectual and athletic—on the campus. 
The club is planning a picnic at FRANCIS MURPHY'S Clubhouse on the Wildcat Creek this summer. At present no date has been set for the affair. 
Tu/sa 
A short time ago the Incal club embarked on the program partially incorporated, within our constitution by holding an election of offi­cers* The new president is ED LEROUX; vice-president, JOE JIcNULTY, the secretary-treas­urer, FRANK REIDT. while R. J. SULLIVAN. 
C. J. SENGER, and LOYD WORLEY, will re­main directors. 
Washington, D. C. 
On March 16 the club held its annual Rockne Memorial Mass and Communion Breakfast at Dunbarton College of Holy Cross. At the banquet given on UhiTerscd Nofr* Dam«- Might hf the m«nib«is ol lii« 
This year the change was made from Holy Washington, D. C, dub a plaque was presentsd to r«tiriag pmndtont Geoig* C Cross College, Brookland, to Dunbarton College, 
Howard, Jr., in recognition of his service as president of the dob doling 1946-47. Left 
conducted by the Holy Cross Sisters, to make 
to right: Rev. Louis T. Thornton, CS. C registrar of tho UaiTeisitr. Aresdent Dan Cnl­
it possible for the wives and friends of the 
# club members to attend, making the occasion hane, George Howard and Rev. Bernard E. Ransing. GLS.C* dob chaplain. a family affair. 
Eighty persons were present. Everyone was much impressed by the school and its beautiful On March 20. fifteen of our local members About 100 turned out for the meeting in­chapel, and the fine breakfast arranged by the met at the K. of C. clubrooms to discuss a cluding SAM NIELD who was in town for two Sisters. 
program and elect officers for the coming year. weeks while working out some problems for FATHER BERNARD BANSING, C.S.C, It was voted then to adopt a club constitution. "Better Homes & Gardens Magazine." chaplain of the club, said Mass and was the Dean James E. McCarthy, of the Commerce There was a big turnout of old-timers includ­
principal speaker at the breakfast. His talk ing JACK BRISUN, DK. tEO D. 0'00NNEI<U 
college was one of the principal speakers at the 
was on family life, and he emphasized the radio 
State Safety Meeting, sponsored by the West JIM DEVLIN. I£ 0 VOGKL and JOHN Hc­program "The Family Theater" conducted "Virginia Safety and Health Council, in Charles­MAHON. The bench was represented by Judge through FATHER PATRICK PEYTON, C.S.C. ton, on ilarch 2G. The dean gave an excellent HUGH C. BOTLE. The barristers included 
The committee: PAT CONWAY, HOWARD address before the educational representatives new president LMtRY O'TOOLE. DR. FRAN­
SCHELLENBERG and JACK M'DEVITT. of the council. CIS HEGARTT, PHII. DONAVAN and JAMES PAT CONWAY HARRIGAN showed up after a long absence 
Dean McCarthy was a guest of the local club 
from the club's affairs. 
at a luncheon, during his visit to Charleston. West Virginia JOHN CACKLEY Old officers who were succeeded at the night's elections were: president H. CARXi UKK, vice-
One of the most successful meetings this president LARRY O'TOOLE, secretary HUGO year was the Universal Notre Dame Night Western Pennsylvania lACOVETTI, treasurer EARL BRIEGER. smoker held at a local hotel. New officers who 
The men who will do the worrying this year Were 'sworn in' included JOE NEENAN , presi­On Universal N. D. night, the club met at are: president, LARRY O'TOOLE, vice-presi­dent; BILL KENNEY , vice-president; JOHN the Royal York banquet room in Pittsburgh. 
dent, HUGO I.\COVETTI, secretary. JOHN 
CACKLEY. secretary, and BILL REISHMAN. Xotre Darner PRANK O'DOXNELL, manager of PATTERSON, treasurer, GEORGE EINGSLET. 
treasurer. President Neenan appointed com-the Royal York bar, dining room and banquet JOHN PATTERSON 
mitocs for the coming year, and a club consti­room, turned out another of his prize buffet tution was approved by those in attendance. suppers. 
Wisconsin—*So. Centroi 
# 
Through the wonderful efforts of JOHN W> ROACH and PRANK SWEENEY, the 'WUconsin South Central Notre Dame Club was organized at the Park Hotel, Madison, on April 14, 1947. 
A meeting was scheduled for May 2G. Plans are also being considered for a stag outing in June or July, and a party during the Christ­mas holidays. 
We have the manual for local alumni dubs, and propose to draw up a constitution and cover other details at our next meeting. We are determined to have a working organization. 
The following men were elected as officers: president, JOHN W. ROACH; vice-president, DAN W. M'CLUSKEY: secretary-treasurer, RUB DAN vr. M'CLUSKEY; Secretary-treasurer, RUBE GRUNDEMAN; directors, for three years. KEN OBERBRUNER, CHARLES P. SCMIED: directors for two years. PRANK H. SWEENEY, TOM HENNEY: directors for one year, KARL 
T. BRENNAN, WILLIAM FORD. RUBE GRUNDEMAN 
Voungsfown 
Nearly 40 alumni and former students of Youngstown and nearby communities attended The ninth annucd memorial Field Mass, sponsoied by the Washington, O. Cu a dinner in the Colonial Koom of the Tod 
Hotel, when the club observed Universal Notre 
Kiights of Columbus, was on May 25. Vice4*residant Patrick I. Conway (left) ond 
Damo Night. Bill Syiing (right) of the Notre Dame Club of Washington repieseijted the club at JIM BRUTZ, who is opening a sporting goods 
the Mass, offered by Bishop Peter Ireton oi Richmond, Va., before the Tomb of the 
store in Warren, provided entertainment with movies of the 1935 Ohio State-Notre Dame 
Unknown Soldier. The Notre Dame club was one of a number of clubs which 
game, and of the Michigan game. placed wreaths before the tomb. CLARENCE T. ("PETE") SHEEHAN, Jr., 
Alumni of the Western Pennsylvania Club take time out from celebrating UniTeiaol 
Notre Dame Ifight to pose for a picture. 

was elected president, succeeding GABRIEL'E. 
MORAN. Other new officers are THOMAS KBR­
RIGAN, vice-president; GEORGE KELLET. 
secretary-treasurer; and Attorney PAUL FLEM­
ING, MORAN, and RICHARD A. RILET, trus­
tees. . 
President. Moran urged all the members to 
tune in on the Denver broadcast of FATHER 
CAVANAUGH'S speech when they got home. 
GEORGE KELLEY 

Eastern Indiana 
The Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night by atendtng a dinner at the "67" Supptr Club in Muncie. 
After a very' enjoyable dinner the Club listened to short talks by "BUTCH" DEVADLT, BILL CRAIG, and the retiring prtsident, NORB HART. 
Officers elected for the coming year were: 
CHARLES P. VOGT, president; 1VILLIAM F. 
CRAIG, vice-president; HARRT HART, secre­
tary; and JAMES FITZMAURICE. treasurer. 

HARRY B. HART 
FR. CAVANAUGH'S SPEECH 
(Continued from Page 18) 

Tonight Harry Hogan and I have told you what Notre Dame has in mind. He has outlined an intensely practical plan of action. I have tried to explain the need of action so that Notre Dame can train and educate still larger numbers of responsible moral leaders. 
Whether or not Notre Dame realizes her ambitions—very unselfish ambitions, because all she asks is to give more and more to society—depends upon our co­operation as alumni. I am worried. I have fresh in my mind many illustra­tions of your willingness to help. For example, there is the annual Alumni Fund. What you have been doing there is a tribute not only to your generosity, but to your grasp of university problems. 
Now, as greater opportunities beckon to Notre Dame, I am not asking you to give, but to get. 
Almost every one of our 15,000 alumni can be of great help to the University in furthering our plans; and I might add that one of the most satisfying develop­ments of recent years is the growing realization among alumni that their con­tinued support is an essential part of Notre Dame's growth and development. I have already implied that when I say "support" I am not limiting the word to "financial" support I know, as you do, many good alumni who cannot give money to the University, but who are nevertheless its active supporters, and who have been the means of turning potential into actual benefactors. 
Alumni as Agents 

Each alumnus can, in effect, become an agent of the University, interested in its current and future welfare. There are few alumni indeed who have not among their circle of acquaintances, men of means who have an appreciation of the work that Notre Dame is doing in provid­ing the leadership that the world so des­perately needs. I do not think it is too much to ask an alumnus to do what he can to quicken that interest. As a mat­ter of fact, we have ever so many alumni who consider it a privilege, if not a duty, to do so, in the light of the ultimate benefits that will accrue to society, through the University. 
If each of us should devote himself seriously to the work of increasing the number of men and women who would take an active interest in Notre Dame, what would be the result? Notre Dame, for her part, would become the truly great institution that she is capable of becoming if only she can grasp all the opportunities that lie before her. Th5 United States would be assured a g:reatcr leaven of leadership. 
And what benefit would we derive as The Notre Ddne Alumnus 
alumni? There would be many benefits, tan^ble and intangible. For one thing, ^ we would have the purely selfish satisfac­tion of knowing that we are graduates of a university to which all others look with unqualified respect But there would 
•be a satisfaction deeper than this, if I know Notre Dame alumni as well as I think I do, and that would be the knowl­edge that in some small way we have joined hands in furthering a tradition of education that had its origin in the lips of Our Lord when He said, "Go therefore and teach all nations." 
HOGAN ALUMNI ADDRESS 
(Continued from Page 16) 

to put their relationship with the Uni­versity on a three-hundred-and-sixty­five-day a year basis. The principal in^ strumentality through which the friends I of Notre Dame can wt)rk is, of course, the Alumni Association of which I am only the temporary head. "That a gen­eration arose who knew not Joseph," makes me conscious of my official brevity and place in the continuing picture. However, like the seasons, the Association ceaselessly functions year in and year out under the able direction of men like Jim Armstrong, Bill Dooley and their associates. Both are in a very real sense, devoting their whole lives and all their 
talents to serving both the Alumni and the University. However they cannot do the job alone—they must have your help. Through participation in the new pro­gram of the Alumni Association—^in what we have called "The Cavanaugh Plan," loyal Notre Dame men every­
where can bring the strength and pur-^ 
pose of Notre Dame to their own com-~ munity level. 
• In conclusion, I have nothing more important to say than to repeat my ap­preciation of the honor which has been paid me and the high value I place on the opportunity which has been given me to play a part in the accomplishment of Notre Dame's very important objec­tives. 
However before closing, I want to urge you to "Take your hats off to the past, but take your coats off to the fu­ture^" put your collective alumni shoul­ders behind our 1947 model, so the sub­stations in each city and town will trans­mit their -power to the main plant here. Let the appeal of our cherished Victory Song "What tho' the odds be great or small," inspire our Public Kelations workers with its swelling refrain, flow- ^ ing to and from the community to the " campus, as a thanksgiving and tribute to "the lovely lady garbed in blue." 
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Sliss Pat Delchaunty and JOHN J. MORAN, •36. 
Miss Agnes D\vj-er and HAROLD J. DRUECKER, '37. 
Miss Geraldine O'Rourkc and BERNARD M. NIEZER. '37. 
Miss Helen C. Dlnneen and C. DONALD SCONFIETTI. '37. 
Miss Rosemary Riordan and EDTVIN J. HUGHES, Jr., '39. 
Miss Eleanor Joan Dick and JOHN J. MUR­PHY, '39. 
Miss Mary Farrell and BERNARD N. BROCKMAN, Jr.. 'U. 
Miss Ansellnc R. Bonessi and ALBERT A. MASTERS, "43. 
Miss Pauline Zeman and ROBERT XL LAN­GENFELD, '43. 
Sliss Mary Lou Reddish and LAWRENCE J. TIERNET, '43. 
Miss Martha Hayes and D. COYNE CALLAG­HAN, '44. 
Miss Rita Quinn and JAMES V. CUNNING­HAM, '44. 
Miss Jane Hannon and EARL R. ENGLERT. •44. 
Miss Zelma Zonenbere and MORRIS WAG­NER, M.S., 'id. 
Miss Gloria Verret and JOSEPH V. ZIMMER­MAN. '46. 
Marriages 
• 
Miss Luclle Anne Clemens and A. HAROLD WEBER. '22, April 14, Notre Dame. 
Miss Mary Wasellnko and VINCENT J. McCOOLA, '37, April IS, Scranton, Pa. 
Miss Margaret Mahar and WILLIASI M. SHERIDAN, '38, Ijpv. 10, 1946, Toronto, Canada. 
Miss Jean Boyd and VINCENT E. DOLLARD, 
•39, April 7, Brockport, N. T. 
Miss Bety Prushour and MICHAEL J. McGUIRE, '39, May 10, Notre Dame. 
Miss Betty Lou Roberts and HAROLD D. MADDEN, Jr., '40, April 7, New Orleans. 
Miss Lois Marie Rendich and ARTHUR R. OBERHOFER, '40, Rockvllle Centre, N. Y. 
Miss Mary Catherine Byrne and WILLIAM 
E. BUENGER, '41, April 26, River Forest, 111. 
Miss Barbara Platou and RALPH A. GERRA, 
•41, May 31, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Eleanore Percoco and DR. SALVATORE J. LaPILUSA, '41, Feb. 6. 
Miss Mildred Frances Frcwitt and LAWR­ENCE A. SCHMIDT, '41, May 25, Boonville, Mo. 
Miss Patricia Fagan and WILLIAM E. FORD. ^42, April 26. Fort Bliss, El Paso, Texas. 
Miss Cecilia Emig and GEORGE SOBEK,.'42, May 17, 3Iilwaukee, Ore. 
Miss Barbara Ann Rempe and CHARLES. J. PATTERSON, '44, June 14, Chicago. 
Sliss Helen Cccile Liwo and EDWIN S. SOCHAliSKI, '44, Oct. 23, 1946. 
SIIss Francesca Maenza and. JAMES B. TREACY, '44, Slay 10, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Anita Dlmltrescu and RICHARD J. AMES, '45. April 17, South Bend. 
Miss Catherine Noesen and JOHN M. DEE, 45, May 17, Skokie, 111. 
Miss Annabelle SIcIntire and FRANCIS J. PAULSON, '46, Jan. 18, Chicago, 111. 
Sliss Bernlce Tlmpy and JOHN O. CARTIER, '47, Feb. 15. Ludington, Mich. 
Miss Patricia Gabler and JOHN B. FBAN­KEL, '47, May 31, South Bend. 
SIlss Margaret Marj- Kedzie and WILLIAM 
T. PECK, '47, April 19, South Bend. Sliss Shirley Zeller and ROBERT T. TERRY, 
•47. May 31, St. Louis. 
Miss Georgann Slarie Foose and THOMAS L. DELAHANTY, '48, Feb. 15, South Bend. 
Miss Jeanne Wick and WALTER J. YOUNG­ER, '49, April 19, Hutchinson, Minn. 
Births 
Mr. and Sirs. CLARENCE J. KLINE, '21, announce the birth of David Andrew, Feb. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS S. DORIOT,' '23, announce the birth of Frances Fayo, March 24. 
Mr. and Sirs. EDWARD S. SULLIVAN. '24, announce the birth of Michael Patrick, May 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT E. FOOS, '25, an­nounce the birth of a. daughter. Slay 5. 
Sir. and Mrs. FRANCIS A. DEITLE, '26, an­nounce thre birth of James Francis, April 15. 
Sir. and Sirs. WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, '26, announce the birth of Martin Donovan, June 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. HEStPHUNG, '26, announce the birth of a daughter, March 31. 
Sir. and Sirs. GERALD M. HANRAHAN, •27, announce the birth of Ann, May 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. HEILKER, •30, an­nounce the birth of Mary Kate, April 29. 
Mr. and Sirs. JOHN O. WEIBLER, •SI, an­nounce the birth of Charles Edward, May 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. DEWEY, '32, an­nounce the birth of Loretta Eileen, March 19. 
Sir. and Mrs. JOHN A. JORDAN, '32, an­nouce the birth of a son. 
Sir. and Sirs. WILLIAM T. LYONS. '32, an­nounce the birth of a son, April 29. 
Sir. and Mrs. THOMAS J. SLVGEE, '32, an­nounce the birth of Ann, Feb. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32, an­nounce the birth of Danny Joe, May 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES A. CONLEY, '33, announce the birth of Mary Helen, Jan. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. MITSCH, '33, an­nounce the birth of William Joseph, March 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. RALPH F. ELSE, '34, announce the birth of Linda. Margaret, April 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOSIAS J. HARRINGTON, '34, announce the birth of Michael, May 24. 
. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. KROEGER, '34, an­nounce the birth of Michael Joseph, May 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS J. McGAHREN. '34. announce the birth of Gail Florence, March 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP J. HEINLE, '35, an­nounce the birth of Carolyn Mary, Feb. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. ROGERS, '35, an­nounce the birth of . Cornelius Stephen and Richard John, Jan. 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. ERVIN. '36, an­nounce the birth of Joseph Andrew. 'May 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. * JAMES H. KIRBT, "36. an­nounce the birth of Anne, April 2. • 
Mr. and'Mrs. HARRY A. BALDWIN, '37, an­nounce the birth of Harry A.. Jr., Feb. 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. GROGAN. '37. an­nounce the birth of Susan Frances. May 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. HURLEY. •ST. an­nounce the birth of Patricia Ann, Dec* 1946. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH E. LOFTUS. "37, an­nounce the birth of Terrence Michael, March 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH V. SCHILLING, '37, announce the, birth of a daughter. May 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT J. SMITH. Jr., '37. announce the birth of Mary Bridget. Oct.-3, *46. 
Dr. and Mrs. FRANCIS W. TRAYNOR, '37. 
• announce the birth of Francis Willoughby. Jr.. Jan. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. CLEARY. '38. an­nounce the birth of John Francis ITT, March 29. 
Dr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. HUGHES, '38, an­nounce the birth of Thomas Joseph. May 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. LeMIRE. '38, an­nounce the birth of Michael David, May 29. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT V. MULLEN, .'38, an­nounce the birth of Patricia Ann, April 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM P. MAHONEY. '39, announce the birth of William P.. m . April 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES M. NORTON, '39, announce the birth of Charles Edwin. Sept. 1, 1946. 
Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD J. SUIOJVAN. '39. announce the birth of Daniel Joseph. Jan. 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. COLE, ^40, announce the birth of Carol Anne, June 2. 
Dr. and Mrs. LEROT E. PETERSON. '40, announce the birth of Eric Leonard. April 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. HOWARD ESSICK. '41. an­nounce the birth of Helen Victoria, Jan. 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS K. REIS. '41. an­nounce the birth of Kathleen, April 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. STACK, '41, an­nounce the birth of Daniel James. HI. Dec. 12.. 1946. 
Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK A. VOGLEWEDB. '41. announce the birth of Fred A.. Jr.. Mar. 31. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE J. BLATT. '42. an­nounce the birth of George James. April 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. GARVEY. '42. an­nounce the birth of Ann Kathleen. March 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL E. HILGARTNER. UT. '42, announce-the birth of a daughter. Jane 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. BRESKA. '43. an­nounce the blrtb of Richard Michael, May II. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. BARLEY, '43, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD E. GHIGLIOTTI, '44. announce -the birth of Gary Bo'an, April 26. 
Lt. (JB) and Mrs. CHARLES F. MERRILL, Jr., announce the birth of Charles Francis, III, May 9. 
Mr. and Mrs. GORDON L. FORESTER, '45, announce the birth of Gordon Lawrence. Jr., April 2. . 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. NELSON, '45, an­nounce the birth of William Asher, Jr., April 17, 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK A. PELUSO, •45, an­nounce the birth of a son, April 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD R. ECKENRODE, Jr., '46, announce the birth of Anne, Feb. 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. LEO A. KLIER, '4G, announce the birth of a daughter. 
Deaths 
One of the Congregation's best known and best loved priests, REV. VilLLTAM A. CARET, C.S.C., '11, former registrar and professor of Latin in the University and former vice-presi­dent of the University of Portland, Oregon, died suddenly of a heart attack at Notre Dame on May 31. He had been seriously ill for several years. He was 5S. 
Father Carey, a native of Clyman, "Wis., was ordained In 1915. After ser\'ing as professor of Latin and Greek at JCotre Dame from 191S to 1926 and as registrar frohi 1926 to 1929, he was vice-president of Portland University from 1929 to 1933. He was a member of the faculty at the University from 1933 until his death. 
His death was discovered by Rev. Michael Morlarity, '10, Cleveland, a close friend who was on the campus for the Commencement week-end. 
Rev. John J, Cavanaugh, C.S.C.. president, celebrated the funeral Mass offered in Sacred Heart Church on the campus on June 3. Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of studies, was the deacon and the Rev. John J. Burke, C-S.C., business manager of the University, was sub-deacon. Burial was made in the Community Cemetery at Xotre Dame. Father Carey is survived by three sisters and three brothers. 
In beckoning BROTHER MAURILIUS. C. S­C, death led from the campus one of the most familiar figures at Notre Dame. Characteristi­cally, he almost died In his boots, for he had been serving as guestmaster at Corby Hall, a faculty residence, until he entered St, Joseph's Hospital shortly before his death on April 23. 
Brother Maurillus DeGan was bom in Chi­cago in 1S78, one of a family of eleven children, only two of whom survive: Mrs. Minnie Thurs­ton and Mr- Frank DeGan. He attended the public schools in River Forest, 111. Writing of his youth, a relative says: "He never cared for worldly things at all and preferred the quiet, gentle serving of God at all times." So it must have not surprised his family when, in his teens, he decided to become a Brother of Holy Cross. He entered the Congregation on Aug. 15. 1896. just in time to meet the last survivor of the little band of seven who founded Notre Dame, in the person of Brother Francis Xavler. 
After a year's novitiate, he spent some time in study. His first appointment as a teacher was to St. Columba's School, Ottawa, 111. After­ward he taught for some years at St. Joseph's College, Cixicinnati. Never a de%'otee of books, he found the life of the teacher but little to his taste. 
His teaching days over, he was ready to put his hand to whatever his superiors wished. For many years he assisted in the students' con­fectionery here, or was in charge of it. Then he was for a brief period a solicitor for "The Ave Maria." Later on he helped in the mail­ing department of that magazine. 
His years as prefect and rector in Carroll Hall, however, are the ones by which ^ Is best remembered, especially among alumni. As a rector his devotion to duty—something always characteristic of him; his interest in the stu­dents* welfare; his sympathy In their troubles —real or imaginary; his sternness, invariably seasoned with kindness, enabled him to wield an immense influence over his freshmen. On their part they readily confided In him. and even seniors were known to seek his advice. Presumably, pondering a disciplinarian of this type, led Sir Shane Leslie. LL.D., '35. to write. "The headmaster of Eton has more to do with the soul of England than the Primate of Can­terbury." 
BROTHER HAITRILIUS, CS.C. 

Former Carrollites readily and gratefully tell how much they owed to Brother Maurillus* advice, inspiration, and example. "We surely did respect him highly,'* writes one of them. "Everj'body loved and revered him, and there was not a single student who had not received a kind word or act from him at one time or another. 
"Those talks of his at the beginning of the semester were really something to hear. The study hall was always jammed full the night he was slated to speak. . . . Usually students from other halls dropped In to hear him. Of course we remember him best of all at mid­night, as he paced back and forth by the watchman's booth, chewing his inevitable black cigar and worrying about his charges who might not get In on time. ' I used to like to bring him a cigar now and then and got a kick out of the gruff thanks with which he pocketed them. I guess he was afraid to be too enthu­siastic for fear that he niight give the impress-Ion that one student or another was In his favor. Anj*way he would snort and put them Into his tunic and mutter, maybe, about who was gallivanting around the Palais Royale and the beer joints of South Bend. 
I "I often wondered whether Brother Mauril­lus ever slept. He would always be at hand at midnight to greet you coming in, and many was the time as I arose at three for some reason or other and found Brother Maurillus walking around, and fully dressed. There was a legend that he was mortally afraid of fire breaking out In the dormitory and that he made hourly rounds to check on the safety of the students. Anyway he seemed ever to be awake and always present, which was another of his characteristics that drew awe from the boys." 
And so when In order to ease his sunset years, his superiors appointed him guestmaster at Corby Hall, the news must have tugged a bit at his heart strings, as he was doubtless loath to reliuQUlsh the care of the freshmen whom he was ever so eager to serve. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

A prayer for the soul of Brother Maurillus— ^ no longer* to be sure, occupying the 'throne* in ^ Carroll study hall—and a throne for him in the Kingdom of Heaven! 
BROTHER HAROLD GRINDEL, C.S.C., '24, 
for the past two years principal of St. Anthony's 
Boys' High School, Long Br%ch, Calif., died 
April 16, of a heart attack, just four hours 
after entering St. Mary's Hospital in that city. 
Brother Harold was bom at Sandusky. O.. 
April 14. 1900. He entered the Congregation 
of Holy Cross In 1917. and took his final vows 
in 1922. He studied at the local parish schools, 
Sacred Heart College, Watertown. Wis., and 
Notre Dame. 
After serving as teacher at Memorial High School, Evansville, Ind., and Cathedral High School. Indianapolis, he became president of Holy Cross College, New Orleans, for eight years. Before that he had been principal of Central Catholic High School, Fort Wayne, for six years. Before going to Long" Beach he taught at Msgr. Coyle High School, Taunton, Mass. 
JOHN L. HEINEMAN, '88. LL. D.. *38. one of the University's best known and most ad­mired alumni, died at St. Vincent's Hospital, A Indianapolis, on April 28, where he had been ^ taken for treatment. He had been confined to his home for some time but had been seriously III for only a few months. 
Mr, Heineman was born May 17. 1865, in Connersvllle, Ind., and had lived there his entire life. Early in his life he became inter­ested In the early days of Connersvllle and spent much time and effort In establishing permanent records of the hifitory of that city, especially regarding St. Gabriel's Catholic church. He was an authority on local and on state historj'. and at various times he had held memberships in both the American and Cath­olic Historical Societies. He was a charter member of the Connersvllle Knights of Colum­bus. • 
Although a graduate in law from Notre Dame, Mr. Heineman never followed the legal pro­fession. ' Instead he became associated with the furniture business and in 1894 established the Conners^-ille Mirror Works, which he operated until 1936, when he placed the business In the hands of a son. Since that time he had de­voted himself to managing extensive realty holdings in Conners\'ille. 
Mr. Heineman always maintained his deep interest in the University and at the time of ^ his death was one of Its oldest active graduates. S ) In 1938, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniver­sary of his graduation, he was awarded the honorary Doctor of Laws Degree by the Uni­versity. In 1926 the Connersvllle Scholarship Award was founded at the University as the result of a gift from Mr. Heineman. 
He is sur^'Ived by two sons, C. William, *29, and George A., '30; two daughters. Sister Maria Teresa. CS.C., a member of the faculty of St. Mary's College. Notre Dame, and Mary Eliza­beth; and by an elder brother. 
GEORGE A. GAFFNET, student at Notre Dame in 1898-99. died in Miami, Fla.. on April 
1. He had been ill for several years. Mr, Gaffney was bom Sept. 13, 1878. and. after attending Holy Cross College, enrolled at the University. During his brief stay here he was a member of the track team. Following graduation Mr. Gaffney entered the automotive lndustr>* in Los Angeles. Later he returned to his home, Waterbury. Conn., to assist his father 
In his construction business. Ten years ago he moved to Florida because of his health. ­
He Is survived by his brother and a sister. 
DR. THOMAS M. JOYCE ex.. '97, internation­ally-known Portland surgeon and head 'of- the department of surgery at the University. of Oregoh medical school, died suddenly from a^ . heart ailment at Multnomah county hospital on ^ April 18. He was 62. 
Dr. Joyce, credited with developing one of the finest departments of S7.rgery in the United States, was bom In Emmettsburg. la., on Jan. 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1347 
28. 1885. After leavingr Notre Bame. Dr. Joyce received his medical degree from the University of Michigan in 1910 and a doctor of laws degree from the University of Portland in 1936. He was first surgical assistant to Dr. Charles Mayo at the Mayo Clinic from 1911 to 1914. 
He was a noted author on many surgical subjects and served in the Army as a major during the first World War. " ' 
Dr. Joyce is survived by his widow and two daughters. Father Kerndt Healy, C.S.C., is a cousin. . 
DR. ADOLPH X. KAMM. ex. '09, formerly of Mishawaka. Ind., died March 30 of a heart ailment in his home in Ashland. Wis. He had practiced medicine there for many years. 
Dr. Kamm was born in Mishawaka on July 

26, 18S9, and. following his graduation from 
Mishawaka High school, entered the University. 
He received his doctor's degree from the Chi­
cago Medical college. 
Surviving are his widow, a son, three daugh­

ters, four brothers and three sisters. 
The Alumni Office was advised of the sudden passing of GERARD T. DEGEN, '10, Gas City, Ind., Just as the "Alumnus'* was going to press. Supplementary biographical data will, it Is anticipated, be contained in the August issue of the "Alumnus." 
JAMES F. CAHILL, '14, LaSalle, 111., tax 

counsellor, died of a heart attack in his home 
on May 5. 
Born on Oct. 3. 1S93, in Peru, 111.. Jim 

attended St. Bede's Academy, Peru, and was a 
law graduate at Notre Dame. An outstanding 
basketball player on the campus for three 
years, he was captain of the basketball team 
in 1913-14. He also participated in baseball. 
In La Salle following his graduation he was 
for many years engaged In the banking busi­
ness. 
Surviving Jim are his wife and his son. James F., Jr., a Notre Dame graduate of 1943. and two daughters, Mrs. Mar>- Denise Canale of Memphis and Mrs. Jane Dorgan, Wlnnetka, HI., both of whom are married to Notre Dame alumni. 
CLARENCE J. JAMES, ex '19. died suddenly in his home in Philadelphia on March 17. He was a veteran of both world wars. 
5Ir. James was born in Orbisonfa, Pa-, and later moved to Harrisburg where he resided until he entered St. Laurent College in Canada where he studied for four years. He attended Notre Dame from 1916 to 1917. 
Prior to his death, Mr. James was the eroup field representative of the John Hancock Life Insurance Company of Philadelphia. He is survived by his widow and his mother. 
ELWTN MICHAEL MOORE. '20, Sturgls, Mich., died in the University of Michigan Hospital. Ann Arbor, on May 1 as the result of injuries sustained in an automobile accident in Sturgis last Februan*. He was one of four Moore brothers to graduate from Notre Dame. 
Born in Kewanee, III., In 1897, Mike came to Notre Dame in 191G and won wide fame as an athlete and as the possessor of an incredible store of athletic statistics. Residing in South Bend from 1920 until 1940, he was known as one of the city's best golfers and best billiard players. In addition, he served as an ofiicial timer at Notre Dame track meets and. in recent years, was the official timer at the football games in the Notre Dame stadium. 
Mike moved to nearby Sturgis in 1941 to be­come president of the Sutton Tool Co., but he continued his close association with Notre Dame. 
Sur\*iving are Mrs. Moore and three daugh­ters; the parents, Mr. and Mrs. M- F. Moore of Kewanee, four sisters, and four brothers: Thomas L., '18. Tulsa; Louis F., '23, Provo. Utah; William H.. Akron, O.; and Emerit E. 
•33, South Bend. Rev. Thomas Tobln, chancellor of archdiocese 
of^PoEtland; Ore., a. classmate and close friend of Mike, flew from Portland to preach the funeral sermon In Sturgis. 
PRANK M. HUGHES. '22. Evanston, HI., died Apr. 16, at St. Francis Hospital, Evanston, HI. He was 52. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame with a law degree. Doc Hughes practiced law in Chicago. Prior to his death he was an attorney and manager of the title clearance department of the Chicago Title and Trust Co. He was associated with the company for 22 years. 
He is survived by his widow, a daughter and two sisters. 
ALVIN T. VAN DOLMAN. '22, secretary and treasurer of the Chicago Retail Coffee Asso­ciation and owner of Van Dolman Coffee Co. and Pennant Products Co.. died of a heart attack in Chicago in April, 1942, according to word which recently reached the Alumni Office. 
FRANCIS J. MILLER, '26, St. Joseph. Mich., died May 26 In Pinecrest Sanatorium at Osh­temo, Mich. He had been a patient there for two months. 
Frank was a prominent lawyer and well-
known citizen in St. Joseph. He was bom 
there on Dec. 26, 1904. and attended St. Joseph 
High School. He received his law degree from 
Notre Dame and immediately returned to his 
home town to practice. He was a member of 
the St. Joseph Lions Club, Berrien County Bar 
Association. Knights of Columbus, and the Holy 
Name Society-
He is survived by his widow, three children, 
his father and a brother. 
MICHAEL J. NTIKOS, '26, died in South Bend, on June 3, after a long illness. Mike had been ill for six months, five of which were spent in a hospital In South Bend. 
Born in South Bend on July 31, 1902, Mike had lived practically all of his life there. While at Notre Dame, he was outstandingr in basket­ball, as he was earlier at Indiana University. Shortly after graduation he assumed duties as head basketball coach at St. Louis University, St. Louis, where he produced winning teams from 1929 to 1936. 
^tike was a member of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity and the Notre Dame club of St. Joseph Valley. Surviving are his widow, a daughter, Nancy; three brothers. Stephen, '21, Joseph, '23, and John. *27, and a sister. 
ARTHUR C. HOHSIANN. '27. Jamaica Plain, Mass., formerly of Rochester, N. T., died un­expectedly on May 1. He was employed by the brokerage firm of George Bentley, Inc.. In Boston. 
A graduate of Aquinas Institute in Rochester. Art was employed by the Snyder Packing Co., of Rochester, before leaving for the Boston area. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter, and by his father and two sisters. 
JOHN O. CLARKE. '32, died of pneumonia In Albuquerque. N. Mcx.. on Sept. 24, 1946. as noted briefly in the last Issue of the "Alumnus." 
John received his medical discharge from the Marine Corps and, because of a serious lung condition, was forced to move to New Mexico. On Sept. 21, he was taken to the Veterans Hospital in Albuquerque. Three days later he died. His body was brought to his home in St. Louis, where he was buried from Our Lady of Lourdcs parish. 
ROBERT J. FITZSIMMONS. '33. treasurer of the South Bend Lumber Co.. died In Harper hospital in Detroit, Mich., on May 4. 
Bob was born on Jan. 21. 1912, In Benton Harbor, Mich., and came to South Bend 14 years ago. He was married last Oct. 30 to Shirley O'Neill, daughter of Ronald O'Neill, '14. of Detroit, who survives. He also leaves his . father and :a sister. 
Bob was a member of the Round. Table in Soutli Bend; treasurer and member of the board 
41: 

of.directors of the Aquinas Library; Knife and Fork clnb. Indiana dnb and the CathoUe' Forum. 
As the "Alnmniur* was-soSnc to prc^ word was received that MICHAEL F. SHANNON, JR., ex. *39, died June 5 In a sanatarinm in Los Ansele^ after a Ions illness. Despite his physical condition, Mike remained active' In. IcNcal affairs of the Notre Dame Club- of Z«os ' Angeles. Further detaHa will be available in the next issue of the "Alnmnns." 
JOHN I. McGOWAN. JR., *45, Chicaso, a Junior in the law school at Notre Dame, died May 6 in South S^nd following an appen­dectomy. 
Jack was bom in Chicago on Aug. 17, 1922. Following his graduation from Fenwick Hlgli School in Oak Park he entered Notre Dame in. the fail of 1941. He later served in the Navy V-12 program her<^ before going to sea wltb the fleet. 
Surviving are his parents, a sister and twa brothers. A memorial Mass was sung by Rev.­John J. Cavanangh. C.S.C., president, on Mar 
7. in Sacred Heart Church. 
C. ROBERT OSTER, ex. '46, Rochester, N. T.» died April 18 in Ann Arbor. Mich., of menen­gltls at the age of 24. He was a senior in the University of Michigan School of Dentistry. 
Bob took his pre-dental work at Notre Dame. ' He was a graduate of Aquinas Institute Rochester, N. T., and a member of Delta. Sigma Delta fraternity. 
He Is survived, by his parents. Dr. and Mrs. ' Charles "W. Oster, a sister. Shirley, and. m. brother, John,-all of Rochester. 
WILLIAM A. BRADT, Jr., Brooklyn, N. T.. who until April was a senior at Notre Dame, died on May 27 following an operation. :Hls father William A. (King) Brady, is well known, as an athletic trainer and as a former bis league pitcher. 
Bill's studies at Notre Dame were interrupted by two years with the Navy in the Pacific, where he won the Service Medal and two battle stars. He is survived by his parents and two ' sisters. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to 
C. BYRON. '13, THOMAS A.. 'Iff, and JAMES 
D. HAYES. '17. on the death of their mother; to JAMES E. *15, and Judge JOSEPH F. SAN­FORD, '21, on the death of their father; to DANIEL F. McAVOY, '22. on the death of his 
. wife; to PAUL H. CASTNER. '23, on the death of his father; to JOHN B. BARR. *24. on the death of his father; to PAUL M. BUTLER, '27; on the death of his brother; to MICHAEL j'. DUFFICY. '27, on the death of his mother; to BERNARD A. GARBER, '28. on-the death of his father and sister; to ROBERT A. GRANT, '28. on the death of his father; to WILLIAM B. JONES, *28. on the death of his father; to JOHN J., '26, THOMAS A. '29, and DANIEL 
F. RYAN. '38, on the death of their father; to DONAU> E. MIHAN, "31. on the death of his father: to MICHAEL M., Jr.. '35, PAUU 
•37, DANIEL C, '39, and KENNETH "JOE" SHEEDY, '42, on the death of their mother; to REV. VICTOR F. DEAN. '41, on the death of his father; to WILLIAM J. YEAGEK,. M2i on the death of his father; and to CABL ^ COCO. '43. on the death of his fother. i} 
Persoaofs Before 1900 
R«T. John JL MacNomanu SL Josfph >fin«r(d Baths, ML ClenMm* BGA 
' Members of the 50-year class, 1897, and of . earlier classes returned to the campus by special Invitation on May 30-31 and June 1 for the alumni reunion. They were guests IVlday evening. May 30, at a special dinner in the Dinins Hall at which HARRY 6. HOGAN, '04, 
42: The.Notre Dame Alumnus 
president of the Alumni Association, presided. FATHER JOHN H. MURPHY. C-S.C., vice-president of the University, was a guest and ofCered the felicitations of the school to the "elder statesmen." Each of the reunioners responded. 
Saturday noon. May 31, the men of 50 years and more were special guests of FATHER JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C,. president, at his luncheon *ln honor of the 25-year class of 1922. And on Saturday evening the same men were seated at the head table at the annual Alumni Banquet. 
The University was happy to welcome the following men who registered over the week­end; PATRICK E. BURKE, 'SS, New Orleans; JAMES J. COONEY, '93. Toledo, O.; MARTIN 
J. COSTELLO, '97, Chicago; FRANK WOLF DAVIS. '97, Constantino. Mich.; JUDGE ARTHUR P. HUDSON, '95, Charleston, "W. Va,; RICHARD M. KERWIN, 'SS, Chicago; FRANK 
P. KONZEN, '87, South Bend; MICHAEL J. NEY. '97, Omaha, Kebr.; S. H. NUSSBAUM, '87, Chicago; HUGO C. ROTHERT, 'S7, Camden, Ark.; ARTHUR W. STAGE, '96, Ann Arbor. Mich.; LOUIS C. "WURZER. '90, Detroit. 
Of these, at least one, Mr, Ney. had not been at the University since his graduation in 1897. Many others had not seen the school In many years. 
At its official dinner, on Friday evening, the group voted to wire a message of greetings to the long-time secretary of the class of 1S97. FATHER JOHN A. MACNAilARA, who is con­fined to St. Joseph Mineral Baths, Mt. Clemens, Mich. In return. Father Mac wired as follows: 
^Sincere thanks to all the good friends of the alumni who sent their prayers and greet­ings. It's lonesome not to be with you. Long life and God's sincerest blessings to you all." 
 E. Proctor, Monger 

1900-04 Robert 
Building, Elkhart, Ind. 

Notre Dame alumni are represented in Kath­leen Hoagland's new anthologj'. "1000 Years of Irish Poetry," by a poem of PATRICK J. Mac-DONOUGH, '03. "Bring Home the Foot." a tribute to his fellow Sligo man, William Butler Yeats. Mr. MacDonough made his mark as a writer of prose and verse during his under­graduate days. He lives In New York City. 
BOBBY LYNCH, Green Bay. Wis., has wel­comed all three of his sons home from the wars. John F., ex *47, recently returned from China. Gene Is now at the University of Cin­cinnati, while Bobby, also a former Notre Dame student, is out in the working world. 
lOACfl O ^*^- ^omas E. Bnrice. ITU9*UT CJS.C^ Notre Dame, Ind. 
EDGAR KOBAK. '08. president of the Mu­tual Broadcasting System, received a gold med­al at the annual dinner of the "Advertising and Selling Magazine" in the Waldorf-Astoria on March 8. The citation read in part: "for his contributions to the knowledge and technique of radio advertising." 
FRANK D. HAYES Is "on the ropes from a lacing in Uncle Sam's behalf." He would like a few lines from his old cohorts at his home, 6215 N. Wayne. Chicago, according to a recent report from that city. 
IQI I Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSoUe St., 
•Ti l Chicago 3,111. 
Fred L. Steers has moved his law offices to the address above, effective May 1. 
 B. Byrne, University li­

1913 Paul 
brary* Notre Dame, Ind. 

The Alumni Office was saddened to learn of the death of Mrs. Mary E. Hayes. She is sur­vived by three sons: C BYRON, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; THOMAS A., '16, Grand Rapids, Mich.; and JAMES D., '17. Washington, D. C. A grandson, JEROME BYRON HAYES. JR., '48, a law student at N.D., also survives, as well as another grandson, THOJLA.S A. HAYES. JR.. a sister and a great-granddaughter. 
IQl ^ Ira W. Hurley, Continental HU­ITI*ffnox8 Bonk Bldg., 231 S. LaSalle St^ Chicago 
IRA HURLEY wrote regarding the death (see "Deaths", this Issue) of JIMMIE CAHILL: "I received a letter from FATHER DOREMUS 
^In which he said that he was In LaSalle for the funeral, and while there, met POYNT DOWNING and WALTER DUNCAN. Jimmie was a fine man and will be missed by the mem­bers of the Class of 1914 and, needless to say. by Notre Dame. 
"I received under date of April 29. a long letter from RONALD O'NEILL, who is located at 1122 Edison Ave.. Detroit 2, In which he ad­vises that he and Mrs. O'Neill have just return­ed from a vacation trip to the West Coast. On their trip they tried to visit as many classmates and other Notre Dame men as they could lo­cate. Among those they did see and talk with were CHARLES VAUGHAN at Lafayette, ind., POYNT DOWNING at Decatur. IlL. FRED GUSHURST, and FRANK KIRCHMAN at Den­ver. KEENE FITZPATRICK at Palo Alto. DAN SULLIVAN at Redwood City, and Bill Cusack at Los Angeles. 
"O'Neill's letter is two pages long and refers to a number of other men of the Class of 1914, 
and I Intend to have it mimeographed so that I may send a copy to every -member of the , class." 
GUS DORAIS. coach of the Detroit Lions professional football team resigned i .*om the Detroit common council on May 19. 
101 E Ion«s E- Sanford, 501 Cherry iTI9stWinnetka,lU. 
MAIi ELWARD, former Purdue football coach. Is In business in Palo Alto, Calif., and Is helping MARCHY SCHWARTZ coach at Stan­ford. 
JIMSfY PHELAN has done such a magnificent job at St. Mary's that alumni clubs of that col­lege were honoring him almost every week with banquets. 
FATHER VINCE MOONEY. C.S.C., has been in Mercy Hospital, Pittsburgh for some time under the care of DR. LEO O'DONNELL, '17. He'd like to hear from you. Address: 204'W. College, Canonsburg. Pa. 
From JOE M'LOUGHLIN: ". . . Now about my work, and the Club. The club is'located on the muddy banks of the San Juan River (Club Marino, Carlpito, Venezuela), surrounded by jungles on three sides. The only ships that come up the river are oil tank­ers and the only place the seamen can go to is the United Seamen's Service Club. My job is- to keep up their morale and see that they are well taken care of while in port. It's a lonesome job when no ships are in port." 
Joe is hoping to get back to the States for the Army game- next fall. He gets a bit im­patient with the tigers and jaguars and snakes that combine to keep his life exciting. 
1917 B. J. VoU. 206 E. Tutt St.. South Bend. Ind. 
From BERNIE VOLL: Friday Bight, May 30, about sixty members and friends of tlie Class of *17 stood siiouldcr . to shoulder at the country home of your secre­tary* on Ironwood Road, South Bend, to cele­brate the 30th reunion of that renowned class 
REV. EUGENE BURKE, aS.C., JOHN RT­LET, PAUL FOGAHTT, and HARRY SCOTT entertained in their inimitable way. GROVER MILIiER, secretary of the class of *16, and his brother BERNIE, of the Class of '17, of Racine, Wis., brought along their camera and recorded the events of the evening on film. A set of about 25 of those pictures can be procured by writing to Bernie at 1504 College Ave., Racine, Wis. The cost is 91.50. They also 
The men oi 1897 and before, plus some special guests, gathered at a dinner.on Friday eTening. Ma; 30. Front row. leh to right: Bolan Burke, '28, son of Patrick E. Burke. '88; John E. Moore. '11, >Cchael J. Ney. "97, -Indge Arthur P. Hudson. '95. Louis C Wiuzer. '96. Martin I. Costello, '97, Frank P. Konzen, '87. Back row: Harold E. Duke, '30. Dan D. Halpn. '31. James J. Cooney, '93, Mr. Burice, HOT. John H. Murphy, CS.Cu '35, vice-premdent of the Univernty: Harry G. Hogan. "Ol, prendent of the Alumni Assoda­tion; Arthur W. Stace. '96, Rev. Robert H. Sweeney. C.S.C '30, and James E. Armstrong. '25. Sererol men of the earlier days arriTed on the campus after the dinner. 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
arranged to have .photostatic copies of the register, which was signed that night, made for ail who signed and these have already been sent out by your secretary with the compli­ments of the Miller Brothers. 
Rev. Speer Strahan. KEV. FRANK C. BROWN. C.S.C. and RHTV. M. A. MULCAIRE, C.S.C.. came to Join their old classmates. REV. WILLIAM J. LYONS, C.S.C, of St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, was unable to come (examination time). Rev. Larry Cain of Proc­tor, Vt., was unable to attend since he was confined to his home, recuperating from a slight coronary thrombosis. 
DANNY HILGAKTNER called the roll of the class with the following responding: DOCTOR ROBERT J. BURNS, Buffalo, N. Y., JAMES 
I. BOLAND. South Bend, REV. PRANK BROWN, South Bend, JOHN E. CASSIDY, Sr., Peoria, 111., CHARLES G. CORCORAN, Spring­field, HI., DANIEL C. CURTIS, Ottawa, HI., RICHARD D. DALEY, Brie, Pa., JOSEPH F. FLYNN, Chicago, J. PAUL FOGARTY, Chicago, 
R. J. GRAHAM, Oak Park, III., JOHN E. GUENDLING, South Bend, BERNARD V. HABERER, Ft. Worth, Texas, DANIEL E. HILGARTNER, Chicago, JAMES D. HAYES, Washington, D. C, RUDOLPH L. KELLY, Peoria, III., WILLIAM E. KENNEDY, Chicago, JAMES T. McMAHON, Toledo, O., AUSTIN J. McNICHOLS, Chicago, EDWARD J. McOSKER, Cleveland Heights, O., PKED L. MAHAFPEY, Indianapolis, BERNARD H. MILLER, Racine, Wis., PAUL MIEFELD, Frankfort, Ind-, ED­GAR F. MORAN, Tulsa, Okla., REV. M. A. MULCAIRE, Notre Dame, MEL S. NIEMER, South Bend, DR. D. M. NIGRO, Kansas City, Mo., •SVILLIAM CRIM O'BRIEN, Grand Rapids, Mich., DR. LEO D. O'DONNELL, Pittsburgh, HUGH sr. O'NEILL, Cleveland, O., JOHN U. RILEY, Portland, Maine, LEON T. RUSSELL, Jackson, Mich., RAYMOND A. SCHAUB, Ham­mond, Ind., HARRY' E. SCOTT, Indianapolis, GEO. W. SHANAHAN, Lima, O., REV. W. SPEER STRAHAN, Notre Dame, E. C. TOBIN, Elgin, 111., LEO J. VOGEL, Pittsburgh, BER­NARD J. VOLL, South Bend, JAMES R. WALSH, Chicago, LAWRENCE J. WELCH, Indianapolis. 
CHUCK REAGAN had planned on attending but almost at the last minute, business necessi­tated his remaining In New York. ED ROGERS of Milwaukee had his calendar marked to come but a wedding In northern Wisconsin called for his presence there. OSCAR J. DORWIN, New York City; LEONARD SWIFT, BronxvIUe, 
N. Y.: DR. FRANK O'DONNELL, Alpena, Mich.; HARRY KELLY, Detroit, and BRIAN OOEM of Huston, Texas had planned on being present but the best of plans are sometimes upset and business demanded their presence elsewhere. 
JEROME J. MILLER, Fort Wayne, Ind., and 
R. J. MILLER of Ccllna, O., had to forsake their planned trips because of illness in their families. 
The following sent in "regrets" and asked to be remembered to "the gang:" GEORGE 
A. P. FRANTZ, Lancaster, Wis., W. J. HYNES, Des Moines. la., J. F. MAHONBY, Rawlins, Wyo., SHERMAN MAY, Superior, Wis., PHIL­LIP M. SWEET, Bourbonnals, III., DR. LESLIE 
A. YAEGER, Trenton, N. J., C. R. YOCKEl', Alpena, Mich., HARRY' BROSNAHAN, Mil­waukee, Wis. 
The following had signified their intention of coming but they were not present .ind we missed their glad handshake: C. W. B.\CHMAN, East Lansing, Mich., ROYAL BOSSHARD, Milwaukee, Wis., ROBERT CARR, Ottawa, 111., STANLEY B. COFALL, Columbus. O., JOHN 
M. MILLER, Los Angoles, Calif., DAN J­QUINLAN, Maiden, Mass., CARLETON BEH, Des Moines, la. 
 Among friends of the class who joined them for the festivities and who have not already HAN, South Bend, JAMES DEVANEY, South Bend, JOHN MOORE, Birmingham, Mich., REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., Notre Dame, REV. PATRICK DOLAN, C.S.C., Notre Dame. JAMES LOGAN, Denver, Colorado, ALEXIS COQUILLARD, South Bend, FRED STEERS, Chicago. 

JOHN RILEY, of Portland, Maine, and B. V. HABERER of Ft. Worth, Texas, travelled the greatest distances to be present. 
I think you will all be interested to know that DR. LESLIE YAEGER writes he has only recently returned from overseas after having served for over five years in the army of World War No. 2 and has resumed his practice in Trenton. 
AUSTIN McNICHOLS advises he lost a light­er which had a great sentimental value to him. About the only distinguishing mark about it was that it was made .in Vienna. If any of you should find it in a pocket will you please forward it to Austin at A-842 Insurance Ex­change, 175 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago, or return it to your host. 
At the request of the class, Masses are now being said for REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL. C.S.C. 
Memory is a treacherous thing and un­doubtedly some of those present, both membrs of the Class and friends, have not had their name recorded, for which we make due apology. 
The night was rather cool and the rooms pretty crowded, but if you who could return enjoyed yourselves as much as I enjoyed having you I believe our 30th reunion will be one of our happy memories in tlie days to come. 
1918 John A. Lemmen 901 Loke Shore Drive* Escooiaba. BAich. 
REV. CHARLES J. ^V^LLIAMS celebrated the silver jubilee of his ordination to the priest­hood on June 10, at St. Malachy Church, Ran­toul. 111. 
JIM HAN'LON has been a patient in St- Jo­seph's Hospital, Denver, for seven months. He has been laid up for nearly two years with a broken leg-. He would welcome letters from Ills old pals. 
IQI Q Clarence W. Bader, 921 Brood-I ' i * way. Gary, Ind. GONZALO RESTREPO JARAMILLO of Walsh Hall days Is currently serving as ambas­sador from Colombia to the United States. Sev­
era! years ago be wrote a book. "Contemporarr Crisis," which was published by the Univexalty of Bolivia' press. A copy was sent to the Notre Dame Library. 
f A4| | lao B. Ward. 458 Spring SU mwmn lam Angeles 13. Calii JOHN BUCKLEY, of Yonngstown, C , suffered a heart attack on May 24 and waa at' the latest report. In a serious condition. Mrs. Emma Stephen, of Ft. Wayne, Ind., has sent the University Library five boxes of books in memory of her two sons who attended Notre Dame: LAWRENCE, who was graduated In 1920 and RAYMOND, who attended the Uni­versity from 1921 to 1923, are both deceased. 
Don W. Duffy, 1600 Tenainat 1921 Tower, derelond, O. 
JAKE KUNE has been elected president of the Indiana-Michigan league, composed of semi­pro teams In northern Indiana and southem Michigan. He continues of course as professor of Mathematics and baseball coach at Notre Dame. Jake had a busy spring: he and his wife, Edith, became parents again (see '3irths" this Issue) one of his daughters was graduated^ summa cam laude, from St. Mary's and the baseball team did a great Job despite the rainy season. 
SENATOR NORM BARRT was a member of the Illinois state legislative committee Investi­gating the recent Centralia coal mine disaster. 
JOE SANFORD, brother of JIM, '15, waa re­cently re-elected for his third consecutive six-year term as circuit Judge of Muslcegon Coun­ty, Michigan. 
Al McGann, president of the McGann Se­curities Company, Ind.. South Bend, was elect­ed a member of the board of directors of the Children's Aid Society. 
1922 Gerald JUhe. 39 Cambridge SU 
Rochecter 7. N. Y. 

From KID ASHE: 
All who attended pronounced the reunion gathering a huge success, even better than anticipated. .. . A quick count late Saturday showed 97 arrivals, and it is hoped all of these registered, as well as those who came later. Cold weather and prediction of rain caused the Committee on Arrangements to shift Friday afternoon's social party from Harold Weber's at Diamond Lake to the Town Club, South Bend. The party at the Town Club was 
been mentioned are: JEROME PARKER, San 

A quintet ol the 25-year reunionera of 1922 gatber near the regiilration head­
Francisco, Calif., JAMES ARMSTRONG, Notre Dame, WILLIAM R. DOOLEY', Notre Dame, quarters at the main entrance to the campna. Left to right: George Heneghan. HARRY G. HOGAN, Fort Wayne, Ind., SHER­
George Server, Dan O'ConnelL Dr. Harold OMOU and Harold McKe*. ~­
WOOD DIXON, Dixon. 111., EDWARD J. MEG­
simply wonderful with good fellowship, fine food, and appetizing beverages. 
Our hosts for the party at the Town Club are surely deser^'ing- of our appreciation and thanka Our hosts were: AARON HUGUE­NARD, BERXIE McCAFFERT, PAT MANION, and HAROLD WEBER, all of South Bend. 
FRED DRESSELt as chairman of the Arrange­ments Committee surely arranged things to per­fection. 
lyjng distance traveling honors ' go to the following: LUIS BUSTAMEXTE, of Cartagena. Columbia. South America, to "V^NCE HAXRA­HAN. of the Panama Canal Zone, and to CHARLES HIRSCHBUHL, of Portland, Ore. 
Kansas City had 100 per cent participation with BILL PORCELL, JOE SHAUGHXESSY and JOE STEWART in attendance. All were sorry no California delegates appeared, but credit JUDGE AL SCOTT with a good attempt, as air flight cancellation stopped him. 
The good doctors made a splendid showing with HENRY ATKINSON, TOM KEEFE, WAL­LACE KREIGHBAUar. HAROLD OESAU and DAN SEXTON present. DR. TOM KEEFE has twin boys, age six months. 

CHABLIE CROWLET, JIM DOOLEY and CY KELLETT motored from Massachusetts as a party. Detroit had 100 per cent attendance with HUNK AXDERSOX, JIM FOREN, JACK HIGGINS, WALT MATTHES and MORGAN SHEEDT- Credit BILL CASTELLINI with class loyalty plus, having arrived on a pair of crutches. 
Many nice compliments were directed to our publicity boys: DAN YOUNG, ED BAILEY. BILL CASTELLINI, HAROLD McKEE and BOB GALLOWAY. By the ^ay, please send that snapshot and write up to Harold McKee pronto for the "Pony Dome" he has so gener­ously offered to compile and print. 
ARDO and ROMAINE REICHERT, as well as AL and JOE RHOilBERG, were there. Also RALPH CORYX, FRANK BLOEMER and many others. 
The athletes made a good showing with HUNK ANDERSON, ED BAILEY, DANNY COUGHLIX. CHUCK CROWLEY, JIM DOOL­EY. JAilES BARRY HQLTON. FRANK MILES. GEORGE PROKOP, SYLVESTER STEINLE. BOB PHELAN and CHET WTTNNE in attend­ance. Missing athletes were: EDDIE ANDER­SON. HARRY MEHRE and BUCK SHAW. Barry Holton arrived In the uniform of a naval commander from Dallas Air Station, which is his headquarters. 
FATHER BOB GALLAGHER celebrated Me­morial Mass for deceased members .on Saturday m^orning. He also had a special Mass for '22 men in Lyons Hall Chapel on Sunday morning. 
Many thanks to every man who attended. You made the reunion a success. Our deep regrets to those who were unable to atcnd for we missed each and every one of you-
Those chiefly responsible for the never-to-be forgotten 1922 party are: HAROLD WEBER, AARON HUGUENARD. PAT ilANION. BER­XIE McCAFFERY and FRED DRESSEL. Our thanks are extended to those men and to FRANK "RANGY" MILES, chief of the Trans­portation Division, and all of those loyal South Bend '22ers who served so efficiently in Rangy's transport service, on BERNIE McCAFFERY'S reception committee and FRED DRESSEL'S committee on arrangements. 
Just a few words of appreciation now to those who contributed so much to make our 25th Re­union in general so highly successful. The co-chairmen, AARON HUGUENARD and HAROLD WEBER, were directors extraordinary. They thought of everything, made plans and prompt­ly and efficiently executed them. Always they worked In perfect unison. The publicity com­mittee. Chairman DAN YOUNG. BILL CAS­TELLINI and ED BAILEY plus our eminent biographer and publicist HAROLD McKee, of Chicago, plus some excellent contributions by TOM ASHE, '31, of California, turned in a publicity performance which we truthfully be­lieve lias never been equalled in the publicity field on reunion gatherings. . . . Thanka to TOM McCABE, president of the Chicago Club. . . . And special thanks to the girls at home who started you on j-our way. 
Our hearty congratulations are extended to 

A. HAROLD WT:BER of South Bend and to his bride, the former Lucile Anne Clemens of East Lansing, Mich., on their marriage. The wed­ding ceremony was held at Xotre Dame on April 14. The Webers now reside at Shore Acres, Diamond Lake. Cassopolls, Mich. 
OLIVER SCHELL, tax consultant, of Tyrone, Pa., has reached the major leagues in the accounting world with the CP.A. designation he now carries. 
Big, good-natured FRANK "DOC" HUGHES is dead. God rest his soul! Doc died on April IC in St. Francis Hospital, Evanston, after many weeivs illness. He was easily one of the best liked men of 1922 in his undergraduate days, and was regarded In the.same manner by his classmates and other fellow alumni of the Chicago area. He was appointed to serve on the Reception Committee, for our 25th Anni­versarj- Reunion, and was anxiously looking forward to that big event, when God called him to join the 1922 group in heaven. 
During his last days, he was visited frequent­ly by TOM McCABE, JERRY DIXON, HAROLD McKEE and other classmates whose visits afforded him much cheer and consolation. Doc was an official of the Chicago Title and Trust Co., which firm he has been affiliated, with since shortly after he was graduated. Our sj-mpathy is extended to his wife, daughter and other relatives. 
PAUL PFOHL has been appointed western manager of the commercial department of the Radio Corporation of America's laboratories division with headquarters in Chicago. 
SISTER MARY-ALOYSI KIENER. S.N.D., is now Mother Slary Aloysi. She is third assistant to the Superior General of the Sisters of Notre Dame and represents the Americas on her board of advisers. Mother Aloysi received her master's degree from Notre Dame In 1923 and her doctor's degree in 1930. She is located at Notre Dame College, South Euclid, Ohio. 
1923 Paul H. Castner, 1305 W. Arling­ton Ave., SL Paul. SGnn. 
From PAUL CASTNER: 
I was unable to attend Commencehent be­cause of the death of my father. His funeral was held here in St. Paul on May 31. On this account, I haven't the up-to-date news I thought I would have at this point. 
BILL VOSS visited us In the East a year or so ago and I didn't believe I reported on his visit. Bill went from the 'butcher' business, (you will Temember his father was proprietor of a fine grocery and meat business while Bill was at school) to the theater business, and now is sales manager of a company that makes machine tools. It was on occassion of a trip to New York in connection with this latter business that Bill called me at New Canaan and came up for a nice visit at my home there. Bill Is the father of three children, two g!rls and a boy. He married a girl from Superior, SPIKE FLINN'S old home town In Wisconsin. 
I had the very distinct pleasure of seeing Spike a few weeks ago in St. Paul and also met his lovely wife. Marge. Spike has married since returning from the Pacific, where he served in the last war. He, like JOHN FLYNN, served in both world wars. I have an important correction to make. Last time in the class notes I said he was in the SeaBees, which TTBC kind of a sissy outfit as compared with the ser\'ice he was in. He was actually in the Amphibian Engineers. They are already oper­ating and landing before the SeaBees are with­in the battle area. As matter of fact, just about the time the commanding offic3rs think about an invasion the Amphibian engineers have 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 

their work half done. As Bert Wiltlaais the j^ famous old colored comedian used to say "it's ^JP a wonderful chance for somebody else, not me.'* 
Spike is the same old boy. He had a touch of malaria, but seems to be getting over Its effects. He thought he was pretty spry and doing al­right until some young fellow in his outfit walked up to him and said "Hy'a Pop?" 
Spike's father passed on a few years ago and they gave up his contracting business. Today Spike is In the Veterans Administration and he expects to he assigned to the northern Wiscon­sin territory around his home. As soon as he lets me know where he is. I will report his address to the class. 
Time marches on! Last issue I reported that members of the class were entering their sons at Notre Dame. Here is a new registration— GEORGE PATTERSON. Jr., of Chicago, entered last fall with DICK NASH'S boy—but that's not the Big News—George reports that a daugh­ter of his had a baby boy March 17 of this year, making him a grandfather. George asks the question in a letter to me, "Am v/ondering if I am the first grandfather of the '23 class!" 
I can't answer 'that question. George. I understand from SPIKE FLINN that ED ^ KHEIMER. who lives in South Bend, sent h!m ™ an anouncement of the marriage of one of h:s daughters well over a year ago, so muyV.o Ed is a grandfather of earlier vintage than GEORGE PATTERSON? 
DONALD MacDONALD, who hailed from Du­luth originally, now lives in Minneapolis, and is with the Metal Parts Equipment Co. Ma.i is married and has some children, but I have misplaced my notes so I will have (o report details in the next issue of the 'Alumnus.' 
I tried my best to get PERC WILCOX and TOM LEE to go to Commencement this jear but they didn't make it. Both have noxt year-noted and will plan to be at the 25th reunion. 
I am planning on going to the Army game this fall and, if i am lucky enougli to get a hotel room, maybe a few of us can get together to make some plans. I would espe>iially like to have some of the class from Chicago, South Bend and surrounding areas act as a committee on arrangements for a class dinner and othor details In connection with next year. I will report more on this later, but evtrry one should start planning to be on hand next year. May-he we can even get FRANCIS NEITZEL to forsake his life of ease and contentment lu Boise, Idaho, to join us. ^ 
That's all for this time—let me hear from everyone during this coming year. 
MURRAY POWERS, news editor of the Akron "Beacon Journal," recently completed a special course of lectures on Journalism at Kent State University, Kent, O. 
1924 
PRANK BURKE recently took part In a panel discussion before the South Bend chapter of the American Association of University Wom­en. Frank is training advisor of the railroad retirement board. Chicago. 
FATHER JOE RICK. C.S.C.. home on leave from seventeen years of missionary work in India, has a list of "firsts" to his credit. He was the first Houston, Texas, boy to be or­dained a priest. He was the first native-born Texas priest to go into the foreign mission field and he was the first American priest to be issued a pilot's license by the Bureau of Aeronautics of the Commerce Department. Father Rick assisted for two days at the recent Texas City disaster before coming on to Notre Dame for the consecration of BISHOP GRAN­ER. He will be in the United States for a year. 
Among the other members of the class of A^ 1924 who got to Notre Dame to attend the con­secration of BISHOP LAWRENCE L. GRANER, CS.C., '24, on April 23, 1947, were: CLIFF NOONAN. Chicago; PAUL KENNEDY. Temple­ton, Ind-; ED SIXLLTVAN, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 4S 
NEWELI/ DE GUHSE, Marine City, Mich.; ROD SHAUGHNESSET. Champaign, 111.; and E. I.. CHAUSEE, Detroit. 
1925 
John P. Hurley. The Toledo Par­lor Furniture Co^ Toledo, O. 
From JOHN HURLEY (on April 11): A letter from DUKE CIJANCY prompted your secretary to givo a passing review for the year of the 25*er3 I've seen. 
Duke says, "Just a short line to let you know that I have changed addresses again. X am now In the insurance agency business with my fathep-in-Iaw. i left the U. S. Na\-y Ord­nance Dept last Sepetmber, and settled up here in the Irish Hills, and like It very much. All things being equal, I plan on being In South Bend for the Army game next fall. (BOLAND, KOCH, LIVBRGOOD. MAHONBY and POL­HOUSE take notice), 
"Regards to all the class of '25 you happen to see around and if you happen this way, stop in at Hillsdale. I hold all the ofHces in the Notre Pame club here, from president to treas­urer, being it's one and only member." Duke's address is 42 South Howell, Hillsdale, Mich. 
Speaking of Army games—I had a pleasant visit with JOHN BARTLEY. We happened to meet on the subway to the game last fall. John looks the same as he did back in Sorin. (As long as he keeps his hat on.) He is still with Reynolds & Co., in the Sherry-Netherlands, 5th Ave., at 59th St.. New York- City. 
BILL BELL ^eems to have about the same "pull" with the football ticket committee as your secretary or we drop our blanks in on the same day in July, He has sat near mc at the last three Army games. Bill Is fine, and here's hoping we are both lucky enough to be Inside the Notre Dame stadium this fall when we play the Cadets. 
RAY CUNNINGHAM dropped mc a line a few weeks ago that he was flying down to Florida for a short vacation, and upon his return, he planned to open a swanky studio In Detroit. Ray is still with the MofTet Studios (Russell Studios to you '25ers) and has enjoyed the most successful season he has had since the 1925 "Dome," and that's saying something. 
PAUL DOOLEY is president of a very busy plant, the Auto Marine Manufacturer & Enamel­ing Co., here in Toledo. Paul has two flne boys. Richard and John Patrick. BUTCH HAECKER Is still with Goodrich in Pittsburgh and is doing right well. 
Saw CHARLIE MOUC3I, Butch's old room­mate, the other day in Sandusky. He's trying to keep that town happy, dispensing bis limit­ed number of cars. GIL SCHAEPFER is hav­ing that same problem in Detroit. I hear his radio advertising every once in a while. Charlie has four children, two boys and two girls. His oldest boy Is a freshman at the University. The next oldest, a daughter, hopes to enter St. Mar>''s College next fall, and another son Is a freshman at the Josephinum Preparatory school near Columbus. O- The youngest daughter Is still at home. How these '25 families do grow up! 

CLARE HAFEL is an engineer at the Allis-Chalmers plant In Springfield, 111. JACK SHEEHAN is a Studebaker dealer In New Ro­chelle. N. Y., and is doing exceptionally well according to a report from his pal BERT DUNNE, '26. 
1926 Victor F. Leminer, Box 661. Lx>n­wood, Mxch. 
FRANK DEITLE Is secretary and treasurer of the Wlnkelman Co., South Bend, engineers and Industrial designers. BOB CAREY is the new head man at the Hawthorne race track in Chicago as the result of shifts following the death of CHARLES BIDWILL, Chicago sports­man, brother of ART '26. 
ROME FELDPAUSCH, Hastings, Mich., and son, Dick, dropped Into the Alumni Office on April 24. Rome has three retail food stores in and near Hastings. Dick will be at N. D- in September. 
NICK S^IITH Is an attorney for the Railway Express Agency In New York. 
FATHER KEITHEN ROCHE, former Peorlan and pastor of St.. Ann's church in Toluca. III.. Is reported recovering In St- Francis hospital. Peoria, from injuries incurred In aQ antomobile accident near Michigan City, Ind., on May ff-
JIM DWYER is legal advisor to Doubleday Company, major publishing concern in New York. 
Jim took BERT DUNNE to Doubleday to talk about an advanced baseball instruction book. The result: Bert wrote it and it will be published soon. Bert has his own picture com­pany now whicli makes 16 mm. sports pictures, 35 mm. sports pictures for Hollywood and also industrial pictures- His attorney in New York is ED FALLON. 
Bert's newest picture, to be released this fall, is titled "Eye In the Sky" and will star BUCK SHAW, '21, coach of the San Francisco Forty Niners, All America Conference. Bert screened his tvro .pictures "Play Ball, Son" and "Swing King" at the February meeting of the New York Club at the Waldorf-Astoria. 
"I Remember"—a story of Notre Dame remi-Biscenceit ia the latest project that Bert and Jim have in mind. They want stories about Notre Dame, with the emphasis on campus llfew and not too much football. The book'will be published in a limited edition and sold at cost. It Is hoped the book will encourage other classes to do likewise and build up a priceless series of class books about Notre Dame. Jim and Bert expect to print 500 copies. Stories like the time George Keogan's pants were stolen at Georgia Tech in 1924 are wanted. It happened that George bad a two-paztts suit and-^but that Is the story '26ers will want to read about. 
Add note on "I Remember": Your name wfll not be mentioned unless yon have made ainmni contribution. All profits on the -book—If any— will be turned over to JAMES ARMSTRONG, who will be asked to edit the final manuscript and delete all libel. • ', 
Prints of Bert's "Play Ball; Son" and "Swinr King" have been sent to the University for the film library. 
JIM PEARSON is . practising law at Flint. Michigan, and plans to attend the Notre Dame-USC game where the class of '26 (Pacific Coast section) plan to hold a reunion this year .. . JIM DWYER and ED FALLON. New York, plan to make the reunion. Headquarters for the '26 Coast reunion will be the Ambassador Hotel, Los Angeles. 
 BolancL Radio Statioa 1927 JoMph R 

WSBT. South BoncL Ind. 

From JOE BOLAND: Another great day In history has come and gone . . . another milestone passed for all you gay blades of yester-year . . . blades dulled, no doubt, by the Commencement week-end thor­oughly enjoyed by a really remarkable turnout of men from '27. 
All who retomed to the campus will need no notes to bring them up-to-date. Those who didn't will have to catch-up when they come back for the twenty-fifth reunion, because Fm still feeling the effects, as this Is wrlttenl 
A report on rennion activities Is due those who returned. And here it Is: the Friday meeting set the class back $80 for everything . . , some 120 remains in the "treasury," after everything had been paid for. Right now. we contemplate using this to pay for the mimeo­graphing and mailing of a list of names and addresses of those present at Commencement to these members. 
• kja 
r ^' 

1927 aa a gather around David Van Wallace, smiling in the center. The oeeorioa: th* Wl parlr ia th* taSull* Hotel' 
You will also be interested in knowing that the collection taken up by the class *'usher". JOB O'DONNELL. after FATHER HARRY RYAN'S Mass for deceased members of the class totaled J150 . . . and was given to Father Harry for further Masses for that intention. 
Now—some "credits": 

The man who came the longest distance: MIKE M'DERMOTT. from California-way. 
The man who surmounted most obstacles: DAVE VAN WALLACE, without question! And it was mar\'elous to have him with us Friday at our own meeting. 
The man who took-up the most collections— (for good causes, as the above indicates)—JOE O'DONNELL: and to Joe, a vote of personal 
The youngMrt and the oldest mem­bers of the dcnu of '27, it says here. Take your choice. The characters in the skit: Joe Boland, class secretary, ond Joe ODonnelL 

thanks for his great assistance in making the '27 reunion such a whopping success! 
The man wlio had the most contented, healthy and wholesome reunion—with a maximum amount of sleep and worthy research while on the campus—^ROME DUGAN, who looks like an undergraduate. 
The men who have accomplished most since graduation—FATHER HARRY RYAN, and FATHER BOB GOODENOVT, S.J. .. . a per­sonal nomination. 
The man who hits the longest golf-ball— DICK HANOUSEK. Ask EDDIE M'LAUGHLIN and BIB IRMIGER: they "contributed" for a Hanousek-lesson. 
The man who looks the least-changed in 20 years: JIMMY QUINN. 
The man who looks the most-changed in 20 years—^what am I saying? The man with the first son from the class to enter Notre Dame—GEORGE GORDON. The man who intends to come back for the NEXT reunion—EVERYMAN! 
To one and all who returned—thanks, for everything. YOU made it a memorable re­union, for all of us. Adios! 
Ashland College, Ashland, O., conferred a de­gree of doctor of laws on JUDGE MALCOLM HATFIELD, St. Joseph, Mich., on May 29. 
ARNOLD B. "PETE" PETERSCHMIDT, for the last seventeen years a member of Univer­sity of Portland, Oregon, faculty, is dean of the College of Business Administration. Tliere are 7S0 students in his division. 
BYRIL GROSECLOSE is an assistant traffic manager In Seattle, "Wash. 
PAT SIZE is vice-president and general man­ager of the Miller Construction Company, Inc., Linton, Ind. 
WILLIAM F. "ILLIE" BURNS is with the San Francisco school department. BILLY YORE is with the Standard Oil Co., also in California. 
JOE DIENHART, a member of the Purdue athletic staff for the past four seasons, has been assigned new duties as assistant to the di­rector and head freshman football coach. 
GERRY RHODES, of Garj-, is assistant gen­eral manager of the American Bridge Co. AL DIEBOLD has two jobs, one running a mill for the Pitsburgh Plate Glass Co., in North Wllkes­boro, N. C. and the other his old job with For­est Lumber Co. AI couldn't make it back for the class reunion. 
CARL SCHICKLER'S daughter is entering St. Mary's this fall. Carl runs the Schickler Lum­ber Co., Albany, 111., right- on the Mississippi river. 
1928 Louis F, Buckley, Social Security Administration, Bm. 400, 1100 Chester St, Cleveland 14, O. 
From LOU BUCKLEY: 
As I anticipated, because of our 20-ycar re­union next year, there were not many '28 men back for Commencement this year. There were, however, a few of the old regular attendants present, including TOM BYRNE, JOHN FRED­ERICK. BOB KNOX, BILL KONOP. WILLIAM 
H. MURPHY. PIERCE O'CONNOR, BOLAN BURKE, JOE MORRISSEY, ED McKEOWN, GEORGE CRONGEYER, ANDY BOYLE and ED QUINN. "We had a session following the Alum­ni Banquet, concerning plans for our 20-year reunion next year. The enthusiasm shown by this group and by other classmates who have already written to me concerning the 1948 re­union, indicates that It is bound to be a huge success. I will give you a report of our plans in future issues of the "Alumnus." 
In the meantime, let me have a note from each of you letting me know you will attend and giving me your suggestions for the type of program you want. Also, give me the names of the '28 men you will contact by personal letters, regarding meeting you at the reunion. I will be glad to furnish any addresses you desire. 
TOM JONES, •2&, who was with our class for four years, attended the meeting of the Board of State Governors of the Alumni Association. Tom is the alumni governor for Idaho. He Is practicing law in Boise and has a boy whom he hopes to have at Notre Dame next year. Speak­ing of alumni governors, we are glad to see another '2S man, JOHN F. McilAHON, appoint­ed to this job for Pennsylvania. 
I visited BILL JONES In Washington recent­ly. Bill's father died In April. Bill is now a partner in the law firm of Hamilton & Hamil­ton with which he has been associated since Oct. 1. with offices in the Union Trust BIdg. Washington 5, D. C 
- JOHN HERBERT wrote from Boston where he has seen a number of classmates and fellows who were at N. D. with us. These include JOHN aiURPHY of Lowell. TOM QUALTERS of Reading, DUTCH HOLLAND of Brighton, JAMES GIVREN of Rockland, JOHN NYKIOS, '27, of Brookline, CUMMINGS GIARDINO. '29, of Watertown, GERRY CROWLEY, '29, of ^ Brighton, JOHN MORAN. '30, of Dorchester and BILL DOYLE, '30, now of Boston, formerly of New York. John has been in New England seven years as manager of the New England Branch for Will & Baumer Candle Co., whose business Is manufacturing candles for churches and home use. The Herberts have one child at present, but by the time this goes to press there will be two. Thanks, John, for your newsy letter. 
The only two '2S men whom I met at the Cleveland Club Universal Notre Dame Night get-together were PIERCE O'CONNOR and JOHN MCLAUGHLIN, pierce is stlll single and is practicing law in Cleveland at 625 Hanna Bldg. after some years in the Army. JOHN SICLAUGHLIN has been in Cleveland for over •: a year and has not located a place for his ^, family to live as yet. John's wife and two children are living in Pennsj^lvania. He Is with' the Land Title and Trust Co. 
Our old dependable scribe. BERNIE GAR­BER, writes as follows In response to my re­
t' 

quest for news this month: 
"JOHN ANTUS, who can speak best for him­self on his legal activities (when not busy entertaining his two sons) says AI, TAYLOR Is a special attorney with Custom's Bar. New York City. LARRY CULLINEY, at this writ­ing, is in Rutland Hospital with his illness undiagnosed. LARRY is again with FDIC, covering a portion of New England and prob­ably chief of the section. His wife is dean of women at Rutland College. The Culllneys have a son, daughter, and a new car. 
"One of my spies (Georgetown man) says ART DENCHFIELD Is in the States vacation­ing here from Singer job in South America. His wife, two sons and daughter accompany him. in a new car purchased in U. S. one week after Art landed here- Watch for reports about Denchfleld from all over. 
"At last Army game, saw GUS .lENEINS for a few minutes. Think he Is vice-president of upstate N. Y. manufacturing concern. OLLIE SCHELL, '29. is getting thin (hair) and rich doing auditing and tax work in Tyrone. Has his own business—^was in N. Y. recently buying calculators, typewriters, etc., and likely inter- JTS viewing new secretaries. si^ 
"DAVE GIBSON sends word from Califor­nia that he has no news, doesn't know yet,about getting back to N. ,D. next year, laments death of BOB GRANT'S father. RICHARD PARaiSH still keeps the dqor locked—probably has a gold mine In those West Virginia mountains. STEVE SHERRY, '28. is with Corbin Company in N. Y., lives In Jersey Oranges, asks only an ap:irtuifcnt in New York City. 
"Doesn't anyone have word about ED McSWEENEY, of Wellsboro or Wellsvllle, O? Nothing heard recently on HAROLD CANAVAN, PAUL DOC BRADY. JOE CANTY of Logan, O., or JOE BRANNON. the Iowa light. 
"As for myself, still living near Mount KIsco and commuting to N. Y. C. We have a daugh­ter and three sons, as brilliant as their parents. My father was killed in a fall last summer; eldest sister died suddenly last December. While commuting recently. I met CLAYTON ADAMS who lives further north in Westcheaier th an I do. His class. I think, is early thirties; believe he Is in commercial motion pictures. 
"I hear that DR, PRANK HEGARTY and JOE BREI6 each lost his mother by death recently. I'm sure their friends join me in -», expressing sympathy. ^ 
"REP. BOB GRANT participated in a radio forum on cooperatives the night of May 6, my wife tells me. While in Chicago a few weeks ago, I had lunch with GEORGE SCHEUKR and BOB CAPESIUS, both on the Chicago 'Sun.' Bob is recuperating from virus pneumonia and kindred infections but he seems his old self. George, who is also publisher of 'Chicago Avia­tion News* was on the plane that mad'i the record - breaking one - hour -fifty - one ­minute flight, Chicago to New York. Bob and George hope to see all journalists at the 20th reunion next year. 
"In Pittsburgh I talked with JOHN McMA-HON, just back from a tour of various cities. He still leads the fight from Mellon Institute against industrial hazards to health. ' 
"A year from now occurs that once-in-a-life­time event—the 20th REUNION OF THE CLASS OF 1928: Looks like war. economics, etc.. should not offer too much opposition to making the occasion a gala one. Planning now is not too soon. How about a class directory for the occasion. BUCKLEY, giving namss. ad­dresses, etc, (please omit pictures). If i get there myself, I expect to see, among other things, a special red Lincoln Continental cm­vertible, containing, among other things, one JAMES CONMEY, and maybe even WALTER^ LAYNE." W-
Thanks, Bemie, for your fine letter. The only name you mention whom I can add anything on now Is -JOB BRANNON. Joe is now out of the Navy and back as manager of Sears store, 1128 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
K St.. Sacramento, Calif. Joe is married and has two children. 
ED DEAN promises to give mo some news for the next Issue. Ed has four children/ 10, 8, 4. and 2. He fs with the Pittibur^n Sieel Co. and lives at 11 Linden Ave., Monessen. Pa, Drop Ed a note at once so he will have some news for all of us next month. 
JOHN P. "SAM" DUNNE is executive with the Pope and Talbot Steamship Company, San Francisco. JIM CULLEN recently accomplished an outstanding Job as general chairman of the Community Chest drive in Sayre, Pa. 
GEORGE STRICKL.ER. who recently resigned as the National Football league's director of public relations, signed a three year contract as assistant general manager and publicity director of the Green Bay Packers of the same league. 
ART DENCHFIELD and his wife. Recipe, Brazil, where Art Is general superintendent of the Singer Sewing Machine Co., recently visited the campus. He planned to visit the Scanda­navian countries, return to the States and then go south to Brazil. 
TOM BYRNE of Cleveland, honorary president 
t of the Alumni Association, and his wife, recent­ly lost their sixth child. A son, John Hugh,, was born April 13 and died on April 15. 
BERN'IE ABBROTT is executive vice-presi­dent of Tele-coin Company with offices in New TorK. 
On May 14. MARTIN V. CALLAGY, former justice of the Domestic Relations Court and secretary of the New Yorlc City Commission for the temporary care of children, delivered the third in a series of free public lectures under the auspices of the Citizens Committee on the Courts, inc. 
IQ^ Q James B. Nower7« P. O. Box 1545, 
•TX T Shrevepori, La. 
PAUL HEMMY is an attorney in Juneau. Wise DR. CORRIN HODGSON is a physician in Rochester, Minn. TED GRIFFIN is again practicing law in Binghampton, N. Y. 
JOHN HINKEU head of the department of public information at the University, was recently chosen vice-president of the Northern Indiana Reserve Oihcer's Association. 
10) A Harold E. Duke. 4030 N. Broad ^ IT^U SU Philadelphia, Pa. 
JIM LEAHY would like to hear from some of his old friends in the class. He's a partner in the Buckeye Building and Engineering Co^. TilBn, O^. and has six children. 
BILL WALSH is an executive with the McGrath Stevedoring Co.. New York City. 
HENRY CLARK is a registered profesflional engineer in Detroit and operates the Trans­former Inspection Co. 
JOB ABBOTT has recently purchased tho franchise of the Paterson, N. J., team In the American Football League. RAY YOUNG is attorney for the Continental Foundry and Ma­chine Co.. East Chicago. Ind. 
CARL BAUER and VINCE McALOON are continuing to develop Catholic Lay Leaders. Their latest undertaking is a layman's study institute located on an S6-acre farm near Her­man. Pa., some forty miles from Pittsburgh. 
1931 Walter F. Philipp. 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
From WALTER PHILIPP: HARRY MERDZINSKI.. late of the U. S. Na\*y. and now one of the up-and-coming mem­bers of the legal profession, was my gracious host during my stay in Grand Rapids, Mich., several months ago. 
WALT RIDLEY, the Deutcher. Is doing his level-best to try to move the builders' supply organizations to furnish him with some mater­ials. Rooms without doors just aren't rooms. 
AL STEPAN, the Chicago chemical manu­facturer, tells me that married life must be agreeing with him—judging^ from his present weigh t-
DAN HAliPiN was feted at a luncheon during a recent visit to Los Angeles by the LEO WARD, '20. Those present were TOM ASHE. GENE KENNEDY. ED BROWN, ED ASHE, and GENE CALHOUN. Dan was toastmaster for Universal Notre Dame Night In Philadel­phia. He did a bang-up Job. 
FATHERS PHILIP SCHAERF and RICHARD MURPHY, both *31ers, are spending themselves at Portland University. I enjoyed several pleas­ant hours with them and a stroll about the campus-
JACK SAUNDERS was recently appointed by HARRY HOGAN as governor of the Alumni Association for the state of Massachusetts. Con­gratulations, Jack! 
Happy vacationing to all of you '31ers, and please make a memo that you will drop me a line occasionally beginning next Pall. 
DAN CLARK'S new restaurant had Its grand opening on April 3 in South Bend. Ben Oakes Trans-World Airlines representative, went to Stockholm. Sweden, on June 3 for a meeting of the Olympic Games committee. He was with a group of Los Angeles people interested in se­curing the Olympic Games for L. A. In 1952. 
LARRY "MOON" ilOLLINS has been signed 
as bemd football coach and coordinstor of ^ath­letics &t St. Ambrose collese in Davenport la. 
 K. Colfin*. 17 Idans^ 

1932 JoBMa 
Avew Doftoa S, O. 

From JIM COLLINS: Thanks to CHARI^EY PETRETIC and hia assistants we had a fine time at the 15th Re­union. The turnout was smaller than expected but It was llvelsr* and a continual round of events, took place from Friday momln; until Sunday afternoon. 
Many were there for the' first time since graduation and It was fine to see them. 
One of the principal things which grew out of the remiion was tht formation of a committee to arrange a class party after the Army game. CLEM THEISEN was selected as chairman to handle all the arrangements, and can be reached at St. Joseph. Mich. He hopes to be able to secure some hotel reservations .for that week-end for members of the class but.on that score be really has his fingers crossed. Hotels in South Bend have been sold out for months past for that week-end. FRANK O'MALLET is working with him on this. A slogan "32 Is Expecting Tou" was agreed upon, after belnr suggested by BARRY O'KBEFE. Any further news of their activities will be in the next Issue of the "Alumnus." 
CLIFF PRODEHL was full of suggestions for the 20th Reunion, and I think he talked himself into the Job of running it. However, all' of his suggestions were good and you will be hearing more about them. He and PAUL HOWE were the Philadelphia representatives. Paul is secre­tary of the Chamber of Commerce there. 
FLO MCCARTHY has taken a position with the Federation for Railway Progress and has his office In the Terminal Tower, Cleveland. He Is handling the promotion work for the organi­zation which was formed by Robert E. Young, president of the Chesepeake and Ohio Railroad. Mac plans to move his family to Cleveland on about June 15. 
JOHNNY GOSTISHA. who Incredibly looks not a day older than when he graduated. Is with the State Department and was preparing to go overseas again soon. He recently re­turned from Europe, where he spent three years In counter intelligence work. JACK DOYLE is also with the State Department. 
PETE TROLIO. as wide as he Is high, said that ANGELO LUCKETT Is with ED MEH­REN'S Squirt Company In Memphis. 
•VINCE DONOHUE Just completed the bar exams in Pennsylvania; he and BILL COONEY wired regards. FRANK NORTON Is living at 444 Harvard St., Rochester, N. Y. He said BILL JONES has been quite 111 since returning from the Navy. 
This sedate gathering is composed of memhers of the doss of 1932 who got ia oa the doM picture at the Ofiver Hotel 
ED KELLT is in the brokerage business in New York, • and was back for the first time. FRANK OBERKOETTER is in business in Bocheste"f and li\-eata)trll3 Buckland Ave. ROT CATIZONE Is practiclns medicine in Merrill. Mich.,—still a bachelor. ioiCK FABRTCKI is living in South Bend and still in the oil busi­ness-
FATHER PAUL HALLINAN was there for one day, and GENE C0NNEI-.I.y got there Sun­day. Father Paul is at the Cathedral in Cleve­land. Gene has two restaurants in New York, and iive children. PAUIJ O'TOOLE is in the real estate business in Chicago, and JACK COIXINS is back in Cleveland practicing law. 
LEO SCHIAVONE was very active all week, and he is back in Chicago after a long time in the Army. 
FATHER HARRY STEGIIAN said tlie Me­morial Mass in Morrissey Hall Chapel Sunday morning. The prize statement of the •week came shortly after Mass when FLO MCCARTHY saw Father Harry in the cafeteria, slapped him on the back and said "Nice Mass, Father." 
The above is only a small list of who was there and what was going on but for any of you ivho missed it, it •will give you an idea of the reunion. Those who were not there can be sure they missed a good session, and that their names were probably mentioned in remin­iscence. For those who were, it was swell seeing you, and I'll look for you at the Army game partj-. 
From JOHN KIBNBR: "Bill Conaton came over to shake hands with my brother, Tom, '29, and myself while at lunch one day recently. Bill is located In Chicago. Shortly after that, HENRY ASMAN came to Cleveland for a sur­geon's convention and lie and MIKE CRAW­FORD'and I met at ROHR'S for a swell lunch­eon. JOE PETRIT2 was also in town at the time but had an appointment and couldn't make It-I forgot to bring my medical diction­ary along but Henry and Mike interpreted as they went along so I wxisn't too high in the cloudsT They had to listen to me a bit for I had to tell them about our taking over another large coal company on the east side of Cleve­land." 
BOB GORMAN has been appointed advertis­ing manager of the All-State Insurance Co., Chicago. Before the war Bob was advertising manager of the Local Loan Co. and, previously, was assistant to the advertising manager of Ditto, Inc. 
BILL "WALTZ is a busy man these days. Be­sides caring for his three boys and two girls and tending his office work of bank auditing and purchasing, he is helping on a drive to raise funds for a Catholic Central high school to be erected between Canton and Massillon, O. 
ED RHATIGAN is welfare commissioner in New York City under Mayor O'Dwj-er. BOB STREB of Canton. O., is a salesman for Na­tional Dairies Sealtest in the local Sanitary Milk Co-
JOHN CONWAY is now overseas with the American Red Cross. His home is in Rochester, New York. 
JOHN DONOHUE, "Washington, D- C, was married Sept- 30. 1944, to Hazel Taylor, Alma. Ga, They now have a daughter, bom July 3. 1946­
BILL OTTO is In charge of testing aggregates for the Nebraska Department of Roads and Irrigation, Highway Testing Laboratory- He has three children. 
REGIS McNAMARA has resigned from the engineering staff of the city of Blnghamton and is now In business for himself. 
WALT MULLEN la district manager for Ozalid in Detroit. 
1933 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK MARRA have an­nounced the adoption of Kathleen Ann, bom June 30. 1946. 
TIGHE WOODS has been named deputy housing expediter for the Office of Rent Con­trol, Washington, D. C. Tighe was regional rent director In Chicago. 
ROBE PURCELL is a la\vyer in the Central Life Bldg.. Ottawa. Hi, PHIL DARMODY has moved to Washington, D. C. from^ Chicago. He is now an airways engineer at C. A. A., Wash­ington. 
From PAUL KNEUZ, Menominee, Mich-: "RALPH 'SHANG' MOLLER of Shanghai, China, spent a month with me last summer after spending four years in a Jap prison camp in Shanghai. At present be is in London, Eng­land, and his address is Lloyds Bldg., London. If any of his friends would like to write him, I am sure he would welcome their letters- He is now in the best of health and plans to stop in the States this summer on his way to Hong­kong, China." 
1934 loseph B. Glennon, Ir» Commer­cial Solvents Cotp., 17 E. 42nd St, New York City 17. 
HOWIE GrLLESPIB of Westfleld, N. J., is with Maclc Truclc Co. in the sales department, Long Island City, N. Y. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club was entertained in Pittsfield, Mass., on Easter Sunday by a group of N. T>. fathers of GEORGE MESBIT, 
•44, PATJIi LIMONT. '45. and 3ERRT, BOB and BILL GUILTINAN, spearheaded by JAUES O'BRIEN, '34. The club sang tbe high Mass for Father Marshall in Pittsfield. 
NICK MOLNAR Is supervisor of Inter-ofBce placement, Indiana State Employment Service, Indianapolis, 

ED MANSFIELD is now living in Chicago and working for the NATA Products Co. His address is: 6575 N. Glenwood, APT. T. He has seen MIKE LATDEN, JOHN CARR, JOHN LOGAN and BILL VBENEMAN. 
Up to late May, according to a report from BOB HAMILTON, the class fund to procure a chalice for FATHER JIM MOSCOW had gathered approximately $450. Contributions were still coming in. 
The chalice, you will recall, is to be in­scribed with the name of the '34 men who lost their lives in World War IL These men: ANDT AUTH, JOHN DISSER, DON DIXON. GERBT PARRELL, JOHN PFRENCH, FATHER PAT FLAHERTY and VINCE JASINSKl. Presenta­tion will be made, it is hoped, some time this summer. 
Father Jim was during the spring studying in St. Louis University preparatory to taking on a hospital administration Job in the Chicago archdiocese. He expected to be back in Chicago about June 1. 
1935 Fronklyn C. Hochreiter* 1327 Pentwood Bd„ Bcdtimore 12. Md. 

JOHN GLAN2NER Is publisher and editor ot the "Trenton Sun," Trenton, III. 
ROCCO SCHIBALLl is purchasing agent in the Department of Finance, City of Gary, Gary, Ind. 
Frank O'Connor has since 1937 been an engi­neer with the TJ- S. Bureau of Reclamation on the Klamath Project in the states of Oregon and California- PHIL ARNHEITER Is a stock trader for the Laird, Bissell and Mead Co., New York City. 
From HOCH: We have one letter for you this time, from TONY KUHARICH. A second one came from FRANK HOLAHAN, but we ha^'e hunted for It throughout the house and of&ce, in vain. Most of Frank's information dated back to the-Army game, but we did want to pass along to you 
' The Notre -Dcane Alumnus 

his new address. He told us that he Is now ^^ in charge of his own office with the Treasury I P Department. It is in Pennsylvania, as before, but where slips our momory. . How about a note 
•to help OS out, Frank? And we apologize for losing your letter. It was the first one we have lost in our 12 years of reporting, but we're sorry It had to be yours. 
Tony is now chief probation officer In the 

U. S- probation and parole system for the northern district of Indiana, with headquarters in the home town of South Bend. We'll let Tony tell his own story: 
"I have intended writing to you long before now but due to the tremendous amount of work I've had to do since returning from overseas, I've been unable to take care of all of my correspondence as I should. 
"No doubt you have been aware of the fact that I served overseas with U.N.R.R.A. as a principal welfare officer in the Displaced Per­sons Division in Germany. I've had some very fine experience, and along with my work, I was able to visit the Dachau Concentration Camp, attend the Nuremberg war-crimes trial, and spent a few days at Garmish, which is a famous German skiing resort. I think 3'ou will remember that the winter Olympics were held ^ ^ there the last time the Olympics took place In V^ Germany. I had one opportunity to go Into Cxechoslavakia with a transport of D. P.'s -who were returning to their native land. On two occasions i went into Austria merely as a visi­tor; one to Salsburg and the other time to Linz. I've wanted to visit Yugoslavia and Poland to get some first-hand information as to how Tito and the Polish Communists are treating their subjects; however. Uncle Joe Stalin refused to give me a visa. 
'1 guess I could go on for days telling you about some of the things that I experienced overseas, but It would take entirely too long to do it by correspondence. I returned from overseas in September of 1946 and was very fortunate to be appointed the chief U. S. proba­tion and parole officer for the Northern District of Indiana. The appointment was made by the Honorable LUTHER M. SWYGERT, '27, federal judge. 
"I have read your column in the "Alumnus" quite faithfully during all these years and I'm worried that I have not made any contributions to it before now. The next time you get to South Bend drop up to the office In the Federal Building and I'll be more than glad to visit with you. I presume that should I go -_ to Baltimore, i have a standing Invitation to ^ ^ visit you. Should you meet any of the old gang from *35, tell them I said 'hello.' " 
Tony it was good hearing from you after these many years. Mrs. Hoch appreciates the best wishes of you and your wife. Your travels should bring you down to see DICK CHAPPELL and the headquarters crowd occasionally In Washington, Be sure to make Baltimore a "must" en route. We envy your period In Europe and would like to really hear about it first-hand. 
That's it for this time, gang. Let's keep those letters rolling in and again, our regrets to PRANK HOLAHAN. 
Prom RUSS O'SHEA, Cairo. 111.: 
- "Just last Thursday I returned from a ten day trip in the South, having stopped in Vlcksburg, Uississlppl, Tallulah, Louisiana, and Memphis, Tennessee. 
"I visited at the 3,000 acre Guilfoil plantation at Omega, I«a., just about nine miles N.E- of Tallulah. JIM GUILFOIL, A.B. '34. runs the plantation. Jim's wife. Agnes, came from I^ke Providence, La., and their production record to ^.te Is as follows: Mary Agnes, age 7; Dorothy, age 5; Patrick, age 4; Margaret, age 2; and Billy, age 1. Jim has about 260 head of cattle __ on the place, many of which are reglstered^^ herefords. He's still the same old guy. and when X, was out at his house for a big chicken dinner on May 13 he propped his feet up on a chair and started talking about that' Army game coming up next fall. Talked lots of 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
d 
N. I>. track of the years around '32 and '33— 
which I remember well. "Jim asked me to tell all his old pals 'hello' for him. Guilfoil told me that he recently had run into COL. C. D. JONES, '32, now of the XT. S. Air Corps, on the streets of Tallulah. Think he said that C. B. was stationed at Shreveport. La. "In Memphis on the afternoon of May Hth I talked to Fred Bauer, *32, over the phone. He runs his automotive supply house, has three dandy boys, and is trying^ to keep up with his old roommate. CARL MEYER, '32, In that re­^g^ard. He told me that Carl is now employed as a construction engineer with P. W. Wool­worth, and works out of St. Louis. 
"Also, while in Memphis, i had the pleasure of a telephone conversation with Prank How-land. *25, who is the General Agent of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company there. Frank has been in Memphis for three or four years now in that capacity. 
"Here this evening i ran into Jack O'Brien, of Indianapolis. Jack had a Commerce degree at N. I>. in *40. He is here for his grand­mother's funeral tomorrow. Tells me he is not yet married.*' 
o 
VA^j L Joseph F. Mansfield^ National 
I «^ w Broadcasting Co., 30 BockefeUer ..Plaza, Radio City, New York, 
N. Y. 

WILLIAM V. ELLIS. JR., is owner, director and manager of Camp Seneca, a summer camp for boys 8 to 15, located on Bear Island in Lake Winnepesaukee, N. H. Bill spent six years in the Army Air Forces as a combat fighter pilot and was discharged as a lieutenant colonel. 
HAMILTON BROWN is a dlesel maintenance engineer with the Oliver iron Mining Co., Hib­bing. Minn. 
GENE MALLOT is now branch manager for the new office in Grand Rapids, Mich., of R. C. Allen Business Machines. Inc. JOHN MORAN Is associated with a public relations firm, Wat­son Associates in Dallas, Texas, and expects to be married In July. HARRT RICH recently Joined the Dr. Pepper. Bottling Co. as sales manager in Portsmouth, Ohio. 
HENRY DENDLER is employed by the North America Companies as superintendent of claims, Buffalo, N. Y., claim division. 
JOE SCHMIDT is advertising representative 
o for the "New York Sun" In New Hampshire, Vermont and Maine. 
1937 Flronk J. Beilly, MacNair-Dorland Co„ 254 W. 31st SL, N. Y. C. 
From FRANK J. REILLY: The golden dome suddenly loomed up through a blue opening in the tops of the trees that line Notre Dame Avenue as we streaked cab-bound for the campus and reunion on Friday morning. May 30. The sight of the dome swept back the cloudy curtain of memory to the first time we saw that now familiar sight back In September of 1933. A field Mass in progress In the cemetery farther down the road shoved our recollection ahead to the war years and the remembrance of all that has happened in the decade since most of our class left the campus. Somehow the sudden sight of the dome and the field Mass in progress symbolized our attempts during the reunion to recapture our feelings in the past and to reconcile them with our present mode of thought and life. 
Notre Dame, to the alumnus who hadn't visited the campus in the ten years since gradu^. atlon. has acquired a delightful beauty that comes only with maturity. The sweep of la%vn with Its trees, shrubs and plants that runs from the Rockne Memorial to Cartier Field li s a sight that takes your breath away, especial­ly when viewed from the balcony in the foyer 
of the parking lot In back of the tennis courts, links with the past were quickly forged by the sight of such familiar campus figures as PAUL FENLON. hatless as usual and a trifle grayer than when we were his students; FRANK O'MAUJEY, largely unchanged, and FATHERS POREMUS. RYAN, MURRAY. (PRANK) CAVANAUGH. et al. 
I was with part of the New York contingent tliat started out from New York on the New York Central's "Pacemaker," Thursday evening at 5:15 p.m., E.D^. Aboard were ED HOYT, ED NEAHER, recovering from a battle with a "strep" throat, JERRY GILLESPIE, all of 1937, VIC MERCADO. '38, and BADEN C32) and Lucy (Mrs.) POWELL. Baden and his wife were headed for an Iowa vacation. Later on we ran across some younger N. D. graduates who had finished in February of this year and • were going' out to receive their degrees. 
In chronicling the events of the week-end which were highlighted by tht '37 party at the Oliver Hotel Friday' night under the capable direction of JERRY CLAEYS. JOHN BRAS­SELL, LARRY DANBOM. JOHN LECHNER. JERRY DAVIES, .LOU HICKEY, and others who served on the committee, and the Alumni Banquet. Saturday night, I'm going to resort largely to the reser\-ation cards which were returned to the Alumni office. These contained a good bit of information about our classmates, anl wherever possible I'll augment what's on the card by what I learned from talking with these fellows. Before I do, however, I'd like to put this information at the head of the list: PHIL R. BON'DI reports that he Is back at work after an illness—enforced absence of seven years. Phil reports that he has a temporary assignment in the marketing division of Stan­dard Register Co. in Dayton, O. His address there Is 112 Delaware St., Dayton, 5, O. 
DON HENNESSY, now of 310 W. 13th St., Sterling. III., reports on his card that he has had a successful year coaching at Catholic Com­munity High School. His football team won eight games, lost two by one point; basketball team won 20 and lost seven. Don says he Is now in track, which he instructed last year for the first time at the school. He will have a baseball team in the Pioneer of Summer H- S. Baseball conferences In Illinois: the N.C*T.C. Don looks,fine, was up early for handball with LARRY DANBOM. FRANK GAUL and one other of our classmates the night after the '37 party. I met Don and Larry getting ready for a golf match with JERRY CLAEYS and JOE QUINN. 
Harry .^oeUer of South Bend said he wonld be on liond Saturday, I presume he meant for the banquet, but I failed to see him. JOHN McKENNA of West Orange. N. J., was on hand with his father. John Is coaching at Orange 
(N. ' J.) High School, my old alma mater. Coaching keeps these fellows looking awfully young, John having changed not a whit since last we met. Heading the list of *37 medical men was FRANCIS A. MARINO. UUca. N. T. Frank Is niarrled and Is practicing medicine In. Utica. He was married in 1943 and has two sons: Joseph and Francis. Frank had a very lucky week-end if you must know. He drove out with Lt. Senatro BSLco, who Is also a doctor I believe, and is. stationed at Mitchell Field, if I'm not mistaken. 
CHUCK DUFFY, 738 Prince St., S.E., Grand Rapids. Mich., said he'd be there and. was. He wrote that BOB DUCIETY would come down from Chicago for the affair and Bob was on hand. He's at a new address in Chicago: 1507' Arthur St. Bob may have told me what. he was doing but -I can't seem to recall, nor do my battered notes give any inkling. iSERNARD 
P. DONNELLY, ex. '37. writes he is married, has three children and is vice-president and sales manager of Donnelly-Kelley Glass Co. Bernle Is living at.80 W, 24th Street, Holland. Mich. He said he'd be there, "maylje." From. the rock bound coasts word came that ED DAHILL of Taunton, Mass.. was flying from Provlncetown, Mass., "weather permitting." Evidently the weather permitted for Ed was there large as life and roomed with TIM KING, If I'm not mistaken, next .to me. It was hard to tell who was rooming with whom what with the crowd that kept pouring in and out of Ed's quarters. 
JERRY CLAEYS. of the candy clan, was much in evidence. Jerry and his young- son were at the ball game on Saturday afternoon. ROY BARRON predicted he would come down from Detroit for the reunion and did. Roy is married (1944) and has two children: a boy and a girl. He came down with his brother. 
L. S. BARRON of '40. Roy mentioned a new address: 15854 Evergreen St., Detroit 23, Mich., on his card. 
. 

of the Rockne Memorial, looking tiirough the arched window in the front of the building 
The South Bend conunittee which arranged Hbm 1937 pCBty in Hhm pEver HoteL facing Cartier Field. Front row, left to right Jerry Dorey. Joha BroMeDL Tom IMieor and Lou ffidey. After registration In the shelter at the edge 
Back row: John Lechner, Lorry Dcmboai cmd ChainiMm Jtiry Qo«ys> 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
From Chicago came HARRY BALDWIN, who reported the birth of Harry A. Baldwin. Jr., on Feb, 11 of this year. Harry is with Arrow Petroleum Co., 7419 Franklin St., Forest Park. 
111. Harry hasn't changed too much. Harvard notwithstanding. JIM BACON, another Chi­cagoan (by adoption), was on hand for the re­union. Jim is still following his career as a journalist being at present night city editor at the Associated Press bureau in Chicago. Jim lives at 2830 S. Wenonah St., Berwyn, III. He reports that FRANK FOX. '37. heads the AP Radio Division at Charlotte, N. C- Frank was missed at the reunion. And still another Chl­cagoan, PAUL BIAGIONI, was there. Paul is doing copy for Procter & Gamble and other accounts at Dancer, Fitzgerald & Sample, Chi­cago advertising agency. He told me that he had been in New Tork for awhile, doing copy at Batten. Barton, Durstine & Osbom. Inc. MILTON BOCK, of Mishawaka and journalism days of "DOC" COONEY. showed. He is doing general assignment reporting for the South Bend "Tribune." A South Bend neighbor of his, JOHNNY BRASSELL, of Bendix, lives at 1302 
N. Elmer St. John boasts a wife, two children and a nice litle home. 
BERNIE REILLY. HERB and Mrs. KENYON and I sat up until about four o'clock in the morning Saturday night recalling the old days at N. D. John did a stretch with the Navy, being stationed In Philadelphia for a while, John and I vied for honors as to who had the most gray hair. I think I hold the edge by a whisker. TOM CONDON of Buffalo wrote that he would be at the reunion and I heard he was there, but I didn't get a chance to see him. Others who wrote in and said they were coming, but little else were: JOHN F. BROGGER of Grand Rapids, BOB BURKE of Cincinnati, TOM BYRNE of Lakewood. O-, and 
A. L. ERSKINE. DICK DELANEY of 510 North Street, Burlington, la., reportedly a doctor, but I couldn't confirm it, was there large as life. Of course, when you mention Delaney you immediately wonder about CHUCK MEYERS, BOB TVEAVER, ART HOFFMAN, et al. Yes, they were all on hand. Art Hoff­man is a practicing medic of Ft. WajTie. Another doctor is BILL BAILEY of Detroit. Bill was on hand and still plays a pretty wicked round of golf. JAMES FOLTZ from Milwaukee and General Electric was there, as was TEX MULCAHEY, reformed journalist now teaching school. 
Just to change the subject for a moment, someone who wasn't at the reunion was G-IRARD E. BESENCBNEY of Newark, O. Jerry wrote that he was recently appointed sales manager and public relations manager for Lick­ing Laundry Co. in Newark. Jerry still main­tains license plate "ND-37." He recently moved to 249 N. 30th St. BILL SHARP, who said he'd be there but wasn't, is still with Inter­national Paper Container Division in Kansas City. I was disappointed that Bill couldn't show as we had a red hot golf match scheduled. What happened, Bill? 
ARCH GOTT and (of course) JOE DORGAN. the Damon and Pythias of '37, were very much present for our get together. Joe is still plug­ging away for the Chicago "Daily News," after varied service In London, Algiers, France, Ger­many, etc Joe was recently married. Arch, on the other hand, labors for International Harvester Co. In Chicago. He is very much married and is the proud popper of two young children. Arch was with the Navy during the war and saw a good bit of the world. JACK COYLE and ED BRENNAN. '3S. left their labors long enough to spend the week-end at Notre Dame. Jack is In the lumber business, while Ed is selling space for "Sport" magazine. He was formerly with "Aero Digest." 
Switching East for a moment, more delegates from the New York environs included JIM O'CONNELL, Brooklyn lawyer; ED HUISKING, who is in the soap business with his father and brothers; WILFRED KIRK. Grand Street Branch manager of National City Bank, who was present with his brother, Fr. Casslon Kirk, O.P.M.; HERB KENYON, who is selling for Blue Cross Hospitalization and who had his wife with him for the reunion, which Herb took in as part of a vacation trip; Ed Neaher. he of the law, who is now busily engaged i|i pro* moting a retreat for the New York Notre Dame alumni group; and ED HOYT. energetic young credit manager for Vick Chemical Co. in New York. Ed recently became the father of a fine young boy. The birth department also covers TOM HUGHES, whose wife presented him with another girl, their third child, and JOE SCHILLING, whose third child was bom about the time of the Hughes' third arrlvaL 
Fort WajTie, Ind., was well represented at. the '37 reunion by, among others, BERNIE NIGZBR, atomey, who is about to get married; PAUL VENDERLEY and DICK McARDLE. JOE NYIKOS of South Bend and BILL MYERS of Mishaw^aka were present at the Oliver party for the class. I didn't see VINCE MURPHY or CHUCK LEIBIN at the Oliver, possibly a hangover aversion from collegiate days, but later I ran across both boys In the cafeteria and at the banquet. HANK WIRRY, FRITZ WOLTER, BILL GRAHAM, FRED GAST, LOU FEHLIG and BILL TUNNEY all put In an ap­pearance at the Friday night affair, FRITZ is now in Albion, Mich.; Hank in Rockford. 'III.; while Lou and Bill are living and working In ­St. Louis. Lou Is in the box and lumber enter­prise operated under the Fehllg Brothers name, while Bill T. Is connected with Owens-Illinois Glass Co. If I'm not mistaken. BILL GRAHAM Is working in Michigan City, while Brother CHUCK is down in Texas. 
Far westerners at the reunion included TIM KING of Tucson, Ariz.; JOHN B. SHAW who made the trip from Tulsa, Okla., where he is In the oil business and ART P. GREGORY who wrote from Denver that he'd be there. I missed him If he did show up. 

From the South we were honored with visits by JOHN RILEY and JOE DROLLA of New Orleans. John Is doing soil engineering in New Orleans, while Joe didn't tell me, or I forgot what he said he was doing. TOM FOY flew in from New Mexico, where I understand he is a lawj-er. BUCK JORDAN of the Chicago "Tribune" got away from Chicago for the week­end. He is now at a new address there, he writes: 4459 W. Washington Blvd., Chicago 24. A Peoria contingent, headed by JACK KING and surrounded by jovial ALEX SLOAN and 
P. ('or Pickles?) V. WINSOUER. showed up in force. J. WALTER NIENABER came. He mentioned that JERRY GOHMAN of Cincinnati would join us, too. BERNIE MARTY of X>e­catur, UK; H. J. (JOE) DREUCKER of Koko­mo (about to be married) and ED FISCHER, .one of "DOC" COONEY'S brightest student lights, were around to shake hands and renew old friendships. Bernie is a successful sales representative for Irwin, Nelsler & Co., Decatur, 
III. Ed, who has been teaching journalism and doing publicity at St. Joseph's College, Rens­selaer, ind.. Is coming back to Notre Dame, to teach journalism neafi September. 
Speaking of teaching, HOWARD MURDOCK is engaged in that profession down at Purdue University. Howard certainly looks well, and Is his old jovial self. He still does a bit of radio work, as he did when on the campus at N. D. 
Before closing this screed. I'd just like to apologize in advance If I missed mentioning any of you fellows I saw at the reunion. Be­cause of the shortness of the time, I'm trying to get this news written and off to BII ^ DOOLEY in a hurry; thus the possibility «f errors. Secondly, I still have a number of cards containing information of our classmates who couldn't make the reunion. In the next issue of the "Alumnus" I'll try to cover all of the men and more too. 
BILL SHAKESPEARE is the representative in Brazil of the Independent Pneumatic Tool Co., Chicago. 
CLIFF MIHM Is a chemist with Phillips Petroleum Co. and lives In Borger, Texas, with his wife and two boys. 
FRANK LESSELYOK6 is a buyer for the Doughboy Industries, Inc.. New Richmond, Wis. 
NICK SALERNO Is a teacher-coach at the high g~\ school in Hudson, N. Y. JIM O'HARA is in the -^ painting and decorating business in Chicago. 
BILL PRENDERGAST is teaching poliUcal science and history at the U.' S. Naval Academy* Annapolis, Md. GORDON MURPHY is now vice-president of the American National Bank. Cheyenne, Wyo. 
TELMO DE LANDERO'S new address Is Eugenio Sue 220, Reforma Polanco, Mexico, D. P.. Mexico. He Is the father of two boys and a girl. He says he has recently seen LOU ALA­MAN, CARLOS HENKEL, JAMES CREEU and PAUL KELLEY. '38. 
DAN SULLIVAN has been transferred by the 

F.B.I. to Binghamton, N. Y. PRANK MARION Is practicing medicine in Utica, N. Y., and has two sons. 
BOB WALDECK left of May 28 for a two months business trip through all major South and Central American countries. JOHN O'HERN Is getting married on June 28. Eight Notre Dame men will be ushers and among them will be JOHN SHAW, BILL CONRY, CHUCK REIDY and CLAY MURRAY, 
•^ 

1938 Harold A. WiUicmis, 4323 Marble Hall Bd.. Baltiniore. Md. 
From HAL WILLIAMS: 
The '38 class notes are getting shorter than 

the news items in the '06 column. What's the 
matter, boys? 
This Is all we have this month (It's hardly worth warming up the typewriter): A card from J. P. (PAT) GORMAN, Jr., and HAROLD 
L. BOISVERT announcing the opening of law ofllces under the firm name of Gorman and Boisvert; the boys will specialize In the practice of law before the V. S. courts of the District of Columbia and the various agencies of the U, S. Government- The address: Suite 21, 1740 K Street, N.W. 
Then there is a note from DON HICKEY on the stationery of Don's Fiesta ("The Mosta of the Besta at Don's Fiesta") review*ing the foot­ball season and announcing that he will make the trip for the Southern Cal. game next year. TOM HUTCHINSON, ^of Bend, Ore., dropped us a line from Mishawaka in-May when "he was attending a week's course at the Dodge Corp., to learn about bearings, etc 
What happened to the Chicago crowd? The" New Yorkers? TEX HAGGAR? RUS RED­GATE? BUNNY MCCORMICK? That India­napolis gang (is there an election going on?)? 
Don't telegraph, write! 

ROY DRYER, once with the New York Yan­kees (where he won 6 and lost 3 in 1941) has organized Sports Film of the Month In San Francisco. This Is a rental bureau which features outstanding sports films. Roy shot down eleven Jap planes before he cracked up at Munda, when Jap flak caused him to crash land. After nineteen months In the hospital, Roy is on his feet but his physical condition prevents him from returning to the Yankees. Hiq address is 57 Post St., San Francisco. 
Ed Hogan, back from five years of service In the Pacific with the 77th Infantry Division, is now a patrolman for the city of Binghamton, 
N. Y. Ed Is now the proud father of a baby girl, bom April 24. • 
ENNIO ARBOIT. St, Ambrose College grid coach last season, has returned to his former football and basketball coaching position at Spalding Institute, Peoria, 111. 
JERRY CLIFFORD Is now in Houston, Tex­as, as representative of the Burroughs Adding^p Machine Co, He has been with them since graduation. 
JOE COLE Is married and his address Is Parsons, Kans., where he operates a retail store. 
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
Q IQ^ Q Vincent DeCcursey. .1917 Eliza­^'^ IT^ T belh, Kansas City 2, Kansas 
From VINCE DE COURSEY: 

Seems to me that it has been a mighty long time since I last sat down to write this column which is supposed to be the news of the class of 1939. This time I had visions of being able to ^-Isit the campus at Commencement and get a lot of low-down in person, but the sun finally came out in the great state of Kansas and the dairy business began to edge back toward normal, which this year seems to be Just a short putt back of satisfactory. 
Not much news has accumulated over the past few months and I feel rather hopeful that BILL DOOLEY is able to garner a lot of In­formation both from and about the boys on the canipus. 
Received notice of LOUIS McKEAN'S ordi­nation and a little later the following note. "Tliank you for remembering me at Ordination. This occasion has offered me an opportunity to contact other alumni. It has been pleasant hearing from VINCENT HARTNETT, REV. ROBERT-LOCHNBR, C.S.C., and about 12-14 other Holy Cross priests. I hope to hear from 
Q JOE HARRINGTON and TOM FOYE. 
"As the invitation indicated I am a priest for the diocese of Reno, Nev. It is a privilege to be able to join the priests of this missionary diocese, whose limits are those of the state of Nevada." 
Around the first of the year we received a letter from DICK BERGEN, who pulled me through many problems in economics. Says Dick: "I can't give you much news, except about myself. Occasionally I see GEORGE FENN, (who was in our class but graduated in MO). 
"As for myself, since returning from the Army, I have finished law school and was ad­mitted to the legal profession on Jan. 20. this year. I am now doing editorial work on law reports. fo.r Commerce Clearing House, while waiting for that 'break' to get a chance to get into practice. By the way, I Just remembered hearing tliat FRANK PARKS was admitted to the Wisconsin Bar and started in practice last summer. I also met rtOM BOSSERT downtown last summer and understand that he is working In Chicago. 
"I am still unmarried and still looking for a\the right girl. It looks like all of you fast "V workers married off all the best ones. If I 
get any more news, I will drop you a line again." . Dick writts from 5101 N, Kenmore, Chicago. 
That seems to be all for this month. Let's hear from a few of you before the end of the summer. 
TOM HALL MILLER Is public relations man­ager for the Piper Aircraft Corp., Lock Haven, Pa. GENE KOCHANOWSKI has joined forces with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., with offices in South Bend. ED BENIOR has been named football coach at St. Mary's high school. Phoenix, Ariz. 
BOB CONVERSE is with the Gorlack Packing Co., Billings, Mont. He Is sales and service representative on mechanical packings for the states of Wyoming and Montana. 
EMMETT and LEO CROWE. '34. were're­cently appointed head football and head basket­ball coach, respectively, at Roger Bacon high school in Cincinnati. Emmett had been at Spalding Institute. Peoria, and Leo at Central Catholic High, Allentown, Pa. 
1940 Robert G. SonfordL 1226 W. ^KHs­consin Ave., Milwaukee, VHB. 
JOE MULQUEEN is retail representative for "Life" magazine in the southwest Philadelphia and Wilmington Areas and in Chester and Delaware counties, Pennsylvania. He has three' children. 
GEORGE HAGGERTY is In the restaurant business In New Y'ork City, at the Union Club on Park Ave. JOHN GORDON is in the district traflic ofilce of Northwest Airlines In Chicago. He lives In nearby Richmond. III. 
Attorney BOB SULLIVAN recently of Lima. O., has been appointed football coach at Ft. Wayne, Ind., Central Catholic High School. 
ED O'MEARA Is the new editor and pub­lisher of the Livermore, Calif., "Weekly News." PAT GOFF is in Tokj'o, Japan, and his wife and child have joined him there. 
JOE CALLAHAN Is at the Chicago 'Tribune* Public Service Bureau in downtown Chicago. AL O'aiEARA is secretary-treasurer of the O'Meara Motor Co. in Denver. 
John W, Patterson^ Jr^ 5530 Dar­1941 lington Rd., Pittsburgh* Pa. 
From JOHN PATTERSON: 
Communiques regarding the various reunions ­have been sadly lacking. BOB DORAN. one of the stalwarts at the 1941 class's fifth in 1946. wrote me 'a card saying that he would not get out to the campus for graduation exer­
• ciscs this year. His reason—a very good one —his card came from Buenos Aires. When It was written. Bob had been In Brazil and Argen­tina for seven weeks, expected to hang around South America for seven more. 
Newsiest letter for this Issue came in from FRANK MCDONOUGH. it was a complete report on the Universal Notre Dame Night activities in Chicago. I quote. 
"Around our table were gathered BILL BURNS (beaming happily as befitting the proud father of twins—^making three children in all for Bill). RUBE MARQUARDT. BILL MOUL­DER. JACK REYNOLDS, genial JIM McGOV-BRN. JIM MCCARTHY. TOM GALLAGHER. BOB DE MOSS. GENE CONKERS. We chatted with HARRY MURRAY, BOCCO MONTEGNA. DON MURTAUGH and GEORGE MARCUCCI. (My sidekick. JACK MURTAUGH. was pursulnif his barrister tendencies since he has become a full-fledged lawyer.) 
"BILL MOULDER left May 1 for San Fran­cisco where he'll park for good. ^ He is district manager for the Harvester Co. 
"Last w«rd from WALT BRENNAN came in March. At that writing he was looking forward to furlough in Ireland and discharge - sometime this month (May). He wrote that PHIL McCANNA, also a doctor, was In uniform some­where in Europe. Walt hopes to take up resi­dency In or near the Windy City, particularly since his malor feminine interest resides on Chicago's South Side. My good friend, HAWLEY VAN SWALIA writes occasionally. He is very proud of hts three daughters." 
So much for the mall. 
Note to 1942'a "Scoop" Scanlan—one of your boys, TOM POWERS, has left the "Pittsburgh Press" to join Pittsburgh's newest radio station. He Is gabbing on the airways with a local newa broadcast four times a day, writing scripts for all other local news broadcasts. Tom is very happy with his new job even though It keeps him hopping from 12 to 14 hours per day, seven days per week. 
BOB O'DONNELL is in the seminary at Mt. St. Mary of the West. Norwood. C , and has finished his second year of theology. GENE DUCKWORTH is with the Precision Parts Co., Ann Arbor, Mich., where he Is chief engineer of the electrical division. 
A third oak leaf cluster to the air medal has been presented to Mrs. Charles E. Schlayer of Harrlsburg, Pa., in recognition of the service of her son, 1st Lt. CHARLES R. SCHLAYER, who died in the third raid by bombers on Nagoya. Japan. 
LOU RIEGEL lives at 7636 Jeffery Ave.. Chi­cago, and is an accountant with the Pure Oil Co. Another recent mover Is GENE DeLAY, who is now working for the Bank of America in San Francisco. 
10^ 9 WilEam E. Sconlon* Bm. 833, 11 IT*I A S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3. HL From SCOOP SCANLAN: 
Most of the major news developments re­garding the Class of *42 took place reunion week-end at Notre Dame^-and yours truly wasn't on band. I hope some of the people close to the scene of things will have con­tributed reports on developments by the time this reaches the "Alumnus^* headquarters. 
Postcarded from New Jersey, via one Joseph­ine RAGOLIA was this note regarding JOE: 
The statt photographer caught this sector of the 1942 party in tho Oliver Hbtol oa TMacf ai^t Har 30L 
"Is now employed by the State of New Jersey as parole officer and is living in a small town in Southern Jersey—Elmer, N. J., 201 Broad St." 
Gosh, now we know where Elmer really is. . , ELMER LATDEN will no doubt be glad to get this news. 
GEORGE UHD breezed into Chicago one week-end but the telephone strike silenced him —and some of his acquaintances. 
While chinning with one ROBERT P. LO­NERGAN, basking In the spacious new Chi­cago Notre Dame Club offices, recently no less than DANNT HOLYWELL walked in. Dan re­ported that JIM O'LAUGHLIN is still keeping the Marines afire but has changed addresses in "Washington, D. C. It's Captain O'Laughlin, you know. 
It was on April 17 that JOE RORICK came 

up with this communique from Rochester, N, T., 
which carries plenty of interesting data: 
"Just about six weeks from tonight my ever 

lovin* and I intend to leave for South Bend. 
Perhaps you didn*t know that tlie Roricks now 
call Rochester- home after a portion of the 
Atomic Bomb plant folded in October, 1945. 
Fortunately we were neck and neck with the 
start of the hoysing shortage and we have a 
place to call home for the time being. 
"I am in the power development department at Kodak Park-Eastman Kodak Co. LEE HASTINGS is In the planning department in the same building. FRANK DOWLING, '41, is in another department. There are a few other Notre Dame men around the company, but being new to Rochester, I know only those I went to school with or those I have met at club meetings. Incidentally, they took me into the fold and made me vice-president of the local Notre Dame club last fall. 
"JOHN GILBERT and I have been correspond­ing concerning the reunion. John and TOSI GESELBRACHT are both at Caterpillar Tractor in Peoria and we expect them to come to­gether. TOM ROURKE is employed by Hills-McCanna Co., as a salesman In New York City. John reports that LARRY KELLEY planned to be on hand. 
"There are two sons around the house these days—John was born In Rochester last June. Joe, Jr., is growing fast and will be heading west one of these days, 
"And I've contacted TONY RINELLA at Schnectady regarding the reunion. He Is follow­ing in his father's footsteps in the produce busi­ness. Nice busintss." 
JACK DINGES called between scoops for the "Hinsdale Doings" to say he was considering going down for the reunion but wasn't sure he would make it. 
This is it for this time. Hope the reunion was a huge success. 
From RAY DONOVAN (who did a tremendous job as local chairman of the 1942 reunion): 
Nearly 100 members of the Class of 1942 journeyed back to the Notre Dame campus over Commencement week-end to rene w ol d acquaintances and partake of the festivities of a real pre-war graduation program. 
Feature of the '42 reunion was an informal get-together of the traditional reunion variety Friday night (May 30) In the Rotary Room of the Oliver Hotel. The five-year graduates, aided and abetted by a professional accordlanist, cut loose vocally with everj* Notre Dame song in the books between reminiscent "do you remem­ber's." Those members of the class attending the reunion program also attended a special Mass in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel Sunday morning, commemorating tliose members who made the Supreme Sacrifice during "World "War 
n. 
It was especially good to see such popular athletes as PAUL LILLIS, STEVE JTJZWIK, 
Not to be outdone by Joe Barr. '42 (see February. 1947, ALUMNUS), Lou Apone, '41. sends cdong his twin girls, Jacquelin and Hlda, bom Dec. 12, 1946. 
BOB HARGRAVE and RAY EBLI reviewing some of the Army games in which they played with BERNIE CRIMMINS, who is now Assist­ant Coach Crimmins for Fighting Irish elevens. 
Probably the most surprising of the returning 
•42ers was GENE SCHUMACHER, who jour­neyed down from his Milwaukee home. Gene, through his own volition, has lost nearly fifty pounds since graduation and had to be intro­duced more than once to many of his old classmates. By the way. Gene is planning to enter the field of matrimony in the near future. 
LARRY KELLEY, former roomie of PAUL LILLIS, came out from Houston, Texas, and JOE SULLIVAN, former saxaphone man In the Notre Dame Cavaliers, took time oft from selling refrigerators, washing machines and other hard-to-get items in South Bend, to attend the reunion. 
FLOYD "SLUSH" RICHARDS, who is "on the air" with a Hartford, Conn., radio station, brought his better half out for the week-end and lucktlj* stumbled onto a hotel room at the La Salle. JOE RORICK wasn't so fortunate In his search for a hotel room, but finally wound up by placing his wife In a private home. 
JOHN GRIFFIN stepped ofC the plane at the South Bend airport to pause between business trips and attend the reunion and bumped into BOB UHL, who is chief steward at the airport. Griffin had to grab another plane after the Alumni Banquet Saturday night to continue his trip. 
Everybody who checked in at the Friday-night party immediately began a search that inevitably was unsuccessful. They were scan­ning the town for BILL "SCOOP" SCANLAN, class secretar>', who was forced by the pressure of his duties with publicity man JIMMY KEARNS to miss the affair. 
A flock of the boys from the East coast were on hand for festivities including SANTO BELLI, JACK BERGAN. BERNIE BERHL. FRANK CONCANNON, "WARREN DA\aS, TOM DEG­NAN, FRANK GIBSON, LARRY HICKEY, BILL MADDEN, DICK MURPHY, R. J. RIOPEL, JOE RORICK and TOM WALKER. 
JIM O'NEAL, class president, came In from St. Louis, together with FRANK POLLNOW. Two members of the class who went on to be ordained priests In the Congregation of Holy Cross and who atended the reunion were REV. RALPH DAVIS, C.S.C.. and REV. JAMES P. DOLL. C.S.C. 
JIM BURKART came all the way up from Chattanooga. Tenn., to join his classmates. Others who traveled quite a distance for the reunion week-end included BOB HARRING­TON, who came In from Hampton, W. Va., H. 
J. McDONNELLv from Tulsa, Okla., ED RYAN, k) from Hibbing, Minn., and ARMI6ER SOM--^ MERS, from Clarkesdale. Miss. 
The reunion could not have been the success it Was were It not for the aid In arrangements and preparations by TOM TEARNEY and MIKE HINES, who are attending Law School at Notre Dame, and PAUL NEVILLE, who is an expert in his coverage of politics for the "South Bend Tribune." All three did more than their share ­of the work In helping with the pre-party arrangements. Teamey, by the 'way, was married in Our Lady Chapel at Notre Dame a week after the reunion. 
BOB TIMMEL has been married since 1945 and is the father of a fourteen-month old son. He*s employed with the Veterans Administration in the physical rehabilitation division. DR. ED GLASER Is a first lieutenant in the Marine Corps and ia doing duty In the Veterans Hospi­tal in Alexandria. Va. 
DON GUYETTE has moved to Racine, Wis., from Plalnficld. N. J. News has got around that GENE SCHUMAKER Is engaged to be married on June 28. ^ y 
In the school department: JOHN CANNEY Is doing graduate work In architecture at Yale University. DR. FRED PLYNN Is assistant professor of philosophy at St. Ambrose College, Davenport. Ia. GEORGE UHL received his master's degree In chemical engineering from Ohio State In June. Another graduate this summer is GEORGE YORK who received his doctor of medicine degree. JOHN STAUBER is at law school at Marquette. DAVE BAGLEY is at Catholic University Law School. He had exams the week-end of the reunion, so he could not attend. FRED PAYNE, too, is going to law school. He's in Cleveland and married to Margaret Clarke, sister of BILL CLARKE, '44. A baby girl was bom to them on April 5. 
CHARLES MACFARLANE, Jr., has registered in the University of Colorado Extension Center in Denver. Working on his master's in In­dustrial Relations at the University of Minne­sota is BILL MEIER. AL THOMAS Is in the graduate school at Boston College. 
PAUL PATTEN has been appointed hockey and backfield coach -in football at St. Lawrence University. Canton. N. Y. He will assimie his duties in September. At the present time, he ^^.^ is coach at Saratoga Springs, N. T.. high v ) school. 
BOB DUNNE, who has been with the "South Bend Tribune." is now with the Associated Press In Memphis. REV. WILLIAM D. CURTIS, son of DAN CURTIS. '17. recently celebrated his first solemn Mass in Rockford, 111. He was ordained in St. Elizabeth's Hospital Chapel, Wabasha. Minn. 
BOB HARRINGTON Is an aero engineer with the National Advisory Committee for aero­nautics, Washington. D. C- GENE HUNT Is being married on June 2S to a Brooklyn girl. He is now working for Hicks and Greist, an advertising firm. His address after June 28 will be 236 S3rd St., Brooklyn. 
ANDY CHERNEY Is engaged in the law practice with J. P. Flanagan. ED HACKETT was married June 29, 1946, to DON MARTIN'S sister. They have a son bom April 7. 
FRANK PLATT has signed as head football and basketball coach at Portage, Pa., high school. He will also teach health and physical education. 
JERRY HEINLEN Is employed as farm service sales representative for the B. F. Good­rich Tire and Rubber Co.. Ft. Wayne. Ind. On May 29, DR. JOHN SHEEDY sailed for Ger-^ • many. He Is -a first lieutenant in the Army ^) Medical Corps. 
WALT MINDER Is In Manila as U. S. Army employee. He Is traveling auditor and expects to be back in the States next fall. LT. JIM. LEAHY Is at Camp Drake, Tokyo, Japan. 
Q 104 9 EdwcErd C Boney, 1723 Iroquois ^ •#•1^ ATe« Detroit »Cch. 
From ED RONEY: *43 may not be the lariTCst class. It may not have crowded the campus thus far on re­union week-ends, and Ifs no great shakes as letter writers, but it sure grabs hold and helps show the way each year in the Alumni Funds. Our year to top the rest must be this one as with our big Five-year reunion coming up next June; we want something to talk about. 
And a letter, or five or ten, would do a lot to help this anemic column along. Lately there's been less to print than could be written on a small grain of rice during the dry season. 
Again we've had but one letter and very few people seem to be finding their way to Detroit lately. That one letter Is from GEORGE COPPIN in San Bruno, Calif., on April 
• 7 . 
"Testerday, BOB MADDEN was up from Mountain View for an Easter dinner. He brought along the December '46 issue of the "Alumnus" and I decided to send you a cor­rection. 
*'rd like to know which one of those men 
0 of leisure, BILL UNGASHICK and JACK WIETHOFF. is responsible for the correction? It is a boy [not a girl] In our family as of the 30th of July last year. 
"Regarding work, I was checked out as a flight aengineer Sept. 1, 1946. Our runs at present are San Francisco to Sydney or Auk-land: San Francisco to Los Angeles via Hono­lulu, or San Francisco to Manila. A survey flight will be run very soon to Shanghai and that will be a new terminal point. It would be good news to see Pan American awarded domestic runs. That way, I might get to travel to New York once In a while, and see MEL RUMMEL and the rest of our class at Panam at La Guardia Field. 
"I would appreciate any news you might .give me of ARKY HIEGEL or JOHNNY NICH­OLSON. Neither has written for some time. Oh yes, BOB MURPHY Is back at Lockheed and I hope to see him approximately ten days from now." 
Thanks for the news, George. Haven't heard anything about HIegel but Nicholson was seen around New York a short time ago. Be­lieve he's coaching. Congrats on the son. 
A formal anouncement popped in the other 4% day concerning the marriage on April 26 in \i/Chicago of FRED G. CHRISTMAN. Jr.. to 
Angeline* Gendusa. So congratulations are also due Fred from the class. 
Speaking of congratulations, the Alumni Asso­ciation and University administrators weren't mad at all at '43's showing in the Fourth Annual Alumni Fund. I w*as told by most of them to pass congratulations along to the class. We were second In percentage of class con­tributing. This year we can beat that. "We also lead all the younger classes in the average amount of money per contributor. That is, out­side of the class of '41, who had someone really flush. But the most important thing from the Alumni Association's point of view is how many fellows contribute and therefore are active alumni. Of course, dollar bills won't help as much as "fins'* or "sawbucks," etc., but they still show a fellow's interest when Junior or the Mrs. needs the rest. Let's get whatever we can in as six months are gone already. 
The 1947 Reunion for the class of '43 was a small one. That was to be expected as next year is the one to save for. Our Five-year reunif,*n will be terrific. The class of '22 set some kind of record with over two-thirds of the class returning this year for the silver jubilee: but we can do as well. Plans are already under way and you'll hear more as the 
r
onths go on. But to get to this year's. Men present In­cluded TOM FINUCANE, LEO SCLAFANI (getting his degree), BILL MITTENDORF. DANNY HOWELL, CY SINGER, BOB PO­NATH, ELMER PETERSON, JOE HAAS, DICK MILLIMAN, GERRY SHEA, TOM MIT­
CHELL, HERB MELTON, JERRY GAINER. JOE GAEKEN, PETE MORITZ, JACK RYAN and ED RONEY. 
There was a party Friday nigfit In one of the rooms and most of the fellows met Saturday night In town. All, I believe, would declare It a worth-while week-end and will be in the vanguard of those returning next year. 
That's about all for this time but a few letters will produce more news. How about it? 
BOB RENSBERGER Is the new head basket­ball coach at Belolt. Wis., senior high school. FATHER KEVIN B. DOHERTY was ordained to the priesthood for the diocese of Camden, 
N. J., on May 31. He said his first Mass on June 1. at Our Lady of Mercy Church in New York City. 
DR. BOB MURNANE received his M.D. from Ohio State University at exercises held In Columbus, O., on March 14. 
Bev. Kevin B. ODoherty. '43, wos ordained on May 31 in Camden. N. J. 
1944 John A. Lynch, 15724 Grandville Rd.. Detroit 23. Mich. 
From JOHNNY LYNCH: First up Is DOM BOETTO of Jollet. 111. Dom's letter of March 14 just missed the last column by a day's mall delivery. 
"At present I'm busy with my law books up at DePaul in Chicago. We've a large repre­sentation of Notre Dame men there, with JIM PLATT and GEORGE ST. GEORGE from my class that I know of. 
"About the biggest tiling that has happened around these parts was the Glee Club concert here in January. It went over just short of terrific. The crowd was big that night, but the thoughts that there would be a SRO sign posted kept a lot of people home. It was sort of old home week for me, seeing GEORGE BARISCILLO and ED CASHMAN for the first time since before the war. 
"BILL SNYDER, who recently tied the knot, was telling me last summer of all the fun had by some 30 of the boys last year at the graduation-week get together. I know we aren't due for our flve-yearer yet, but I do plan to get down there in May. that Is, if my Navy cruise doesn't interfere. 
"At Christmas we had a party here with BOB WITTE and the Mrs., plus BOB GORSKI. 
'45. The evening was spent recalling old timera mnd friends. We were all at Pearl Harbor 
.together. Z*ast fall I spent a week In Colum­bus, O.. and a conple of swell days with the AIJEXANDERS. GUIDO and AL, '46, aie now the proprietors of Coltunbu^ newest and most modem night clab, and really big time. Gnido was down for the Sonthem Cal game bat X missed him then." 
Next letter is from CHARLES IJDBUE of West New York. N. J. As of March 19 then: 
"I am not a graduate of Notre Dame, but still I am a member of the Alumni Association and the class of '44. Ton see. X left school in April. '42, after my mother's death. 
"Have been' trying to return to the higher learning institutions without much success. Seems as though advanced students - are con­tagious in these parts. Would like to rettim 
• to Notre Dame, but can't tesu- &way from home at present. Been xnoving around too many years already (six to be exact!). 
"I had the pleasiure of returning to the cam­pus from the fleet in 1944. Those high school fellows gave me rough competition, after belnff away from the books for so long. At best. I got another term under my belt. ' 
"While on campus X ran into my old room­mate FETE EYESIiAGE again. He was help­ing out at the Science Building and studying for his master's. Also used to hear a lot from JOB DESMOND of New Hampshire. He ought to be getting that white collar about now. X be­lieve it was at St. Paul's Seminary in Ottawa. Ontario, that he spent his time. £«ike me, he> spent two years at N. D., and hasn't lost a bit of the old spirit. 
"Had the pleasure of watching the Irish beat N. T. U. at the garden. It was good to see FRAN CURRAN playing ball again. Almost like old times at the field house." 
Charlie has been heartily welcomed into the ranks, and this is as good a time as any to. say that men of '44, even if they didn't gradu­ate, are welcome as altmini members. Tho front office carries non-graduates as "former students," but that Is Just for accuracy. Any­one who put in time on campus and would like to Join the Alumni Association can do so. If any of you regulars know of any one on the outside, tip them off and get them on the in­side. A card here, or to the office at Notre Dame, will get you the details. 
And now for the latest (7 April) on CHUCK X7RRUELA, the man with the stripe and a half on his sleeve and the address in Jackson­ville. Fla. For the records it's now,: LT. <JG) SC, USNR, Ass't DSO, ComSETVEN. Bldg. 953, U.S.N.A.S. 
"X have finally resolved to carry out my New Year's resolution (of 1946) and write a few lines. Not that X have anything to say, or any red-hot news to impart, because most of my 
N. D. news is ante-bellum. I have managed to keep in touch with a few of the fellows, most of them back at school under the GI Bill. Also an occasional letter from such as MIKE FESSEMXER. now studying In New York, and from AUSTIN JONES, working for an account-. Ing comi>any in the same area. 
"When we first came down here from Balti-" more last July, I did run across BILL' SCHEUCH down at the 16th Fleet Berthing area at Green Cove Springs. Bill was a com­municator down there, sweating out his last months in the Navy. When home at Christmas, time I ran across BUB KOTTE (circa '42) who is now practicing law in Miami, and also. BILL TUtiLY, a Notre Damer of more recent. vintage. And of course there are still a few. of the Irish* like myself still in uniform, and I meet them here and there during my travels around the District. 
"Our tour of duty here has been very pleasant. The housing situation nearly whipped us at first, but we finally got hold of a new, furnished house at a reasonable rent (Inck o* the you know what!) and since then it's been 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
all roses. The weather has been good for golf and fishing all winter, and swimming and tennis resumed this month. The station has all possible facilities, and we're close enough to be able to get down to Miami Beach and see the family now and then. 
"Liked my job here so well that I decided to stay in the Ka\-j' for another year at least. Am in the Pistrict Supply Office and have tied in with the Ship's Ser\'ice Stores and Com­missioned Officers' Messes for the whole dis­trict, so am geting a lot of good experience in accounting and merchandising, not to mention some tax work and even a little law. 
"Our new adtUtion is due some time this week, and for once we can't get together. Jeanne wants a boy. i want a girl. 
"In June we are going to get away to Havana, Guatemala, and possible Mexico for lour or live weeks. Then we're due to go to New York for four months. After that we hope to go to South America, or possibly Japan for a tour of duty. So far the Navy has treated us very well, and I'm not sure I want to get out until we can be sure we can really put away the uniforms. Right now, from where I sit, the 'bright new peace* is still a verj- faint glimmer. Passed the competitive exams for the State Department last fall, so if we do jump out of the Navy it will probably be in that direction. 
"Needless to say i often think of the N. D. days, and of all the happy associations and friendships we shared. One of the few things I regret about the present is my inability to keep in closer touch with many of the fellows, and the fact that I haven't been able to get back to the campus for so long. To remedy this situation somewhat, would you kindly ask JIM ARMSTRONG to renew my Alumni sub­scription. 
"Best wishes to any of the fellows we mutually know, and who happen to be on the mailing list." 
Going hastilj' through the remaining mail now, we hear from BILL. BOSS. This was March 24: 
"liCft Notre Dame on schedule in late Janu­ary, and spent Feb. 2-G in St. Louis with RCA Television, when KSD-TV opened. A few more days at home and I reported for active duty with RCA in Camden on Fob. 17. Have been absorbing an enjoyable training program since that time. The training, incidentally, ends this week. 
"Attended the last meeting of the Phila­delphia Club here. A few faces present that are familiar to us. 'MOOSE* KRAUSE is to be principal speaker for Universal N. D. Night affair. 
"Met JOHN O'HARA a few days ago in near­by Collingswood. John has just purchased a new home and ia currently employed as an insurance company adjuster. BOB REILLT re­ports that he really likes Georgetown Law School." 
Bill also reports that he has heard from TOil BRENNAN, FRANK SULLrVAN and ED DRINKARD on the campus. Also that FRAN CURRAN and the Mrs. are February parents of an eight pound son. Bill's address Is 114 Avondale Ave., Haddonfield, N. J. Send your television queries there. 
PUKE LEART sends word along that 1X)U SCHMITZ was married to Marg Murphy, both of "Willmar, Minn., at that place, on May 1. They'll live in Willmar where Lou is busy at the family Coco-Cola and soft drink bottling plant. He adds that BILL TALBOT has just finished a 60,000 word-thesis for his M.A. in Dramatic Art. at Columbia. The Duke, by the way, will be married to Pat Berrigan on July 5, at Omaha- They'll both be getting that Columbia M.A. in Journalism in June. 
A quick one from JACK WOELFLE tells us that he is no longer In insurance, but is doing sales promotion work for Standard Brands Products, who handle that fine Tender I«af Tea etc., etc 
And a card from the PAT McDERMOTT family says that the third member is Pat, Jr., born March 30 at McKees Rocks, Pa, 
Here and there: JACK CRAHAN of Napo­leon, O., was in Detroit April 25 and gave ua a call. JIM DANAHER is back in Detroit, and Grosse Pointe, and hard at work selling stocks and bonds. CY DESMET of the local area was married to Harriett Jozeflak on May 10. 
And the last word from Notre Dame was a copy of the "\''etville News," contemporary sheet for the vet village adjacent to the campus. JACK HUPP holds down the editor's chair. The Vetvtlle Council lists FRANK ROMANO and BILL HOOLET as co-chairmen of the Social and Recreational Committee for the stu­dents and wives. \aNCE SCULLY is in charge of public relations. As of April 18 there were 117 families living in Vetville, Notre Dame, Ind. 

ViC COLLETTI sent word that he would be on hand at Notre Dame the week-end of June 1 for the Commencement exercises. Vic was one of the many who finished in January, then had to wait the several months for graduation. Since January he has been at work in his home town. Port Arthur, Texas, as a junior chemical engineer for the Gulf Oil Co. 
A card from JOHN MARTIN of Wabash, Ind., tips us ofC that he too is one of the original '44 men among the June graduates. John was in Commerce, and we missed his name on that long list included In the April column. 
CHUCK PATTERSON has been assistant edi­tor of the new "Juggler" at Notre Dame, the post-war counterpart of "Scrip," under the editorship ot J. H. JOHNSTON. Contributors to the spring issues include JOHN FALLON and JIM CUNNINGHAM. Chuck was the orator for both Washington's Birthday and the Com­nvencement. 
There is news In the publishing field that Berliner-Lanigan Publishers — HARRT BER­LINER, '45. and JOE LANIGAN—of Nevada City, Calif., have their first book on the market, the work of Dr. Willis Nutting of the faculty. 
The latest wedding news includes the follow­ing: Miss Barbara Rempe and CHUCK PAT­TERSON to be married in Chicago June 14; Miss Kathleen O'Learj* and JACK KELLY to be married in New York July 4; Miss Margaret Clark and JACK SULLIVAN to be married In New York July 17; Miss Helen Mitchell and CHARLES 'RED* McGAFFERTY to be married in New York, Aug. 21. 
And that is all. All letters always welcome from the class of '44. 
The story. "The Burden," writen by JOHNNY LYNCH as an "Atlantic First" in the April Issue of "Atlantic" magazine will be included in the O. Henry Anthology of 1947- The Alum­ni Association and especially the editors of the "Alumnus" offer special congratulations. 
JOHN MURRAY has a job with the Office Engineers in South Bend, doing sales and service. 
ED MORGAN, after receiving his degree In science at N. D., is taking graduate work at Tulane University in New Orleans. CHARLIE SEGHERS, too. Is taking graduate work, at Notre Dame. 
BILL LYONS is studying at St. Charles Semi­nary, Oberbrook, Philadelphia. He was recently advanced to sub-deaconship. 
IQ^Clomes W. Schaefier. P. O. Box ITt9 369, Schenectady, N. Y. 
PROM JIM SCHAEFFER: Mail service to Schenectady must have been discontinued for the past month, for the num­
ber of letters has been dropping off like mad. First letter as we reach into the "mailbox 
C) 

comes from FRANK CURRAN. Frank hasn*t seen any of the fellows since graduation, and he expresses a wish for a good old-fashioned class reunion. Although no special plans were made for a 1945 reunion at Notre Dame over the Memorial Day week-end, let's start think­ing about plans for an organized '45 effort next year, and keep in mind that our five-year re­union isn't so far off—1950 will be here any day now. 
Frank writes, "On leaving Notre Dame I was rather obliged—under the usual circum­stances—to enter the service. I chose the Navy and won't be out until May, 1948. I am work­ing in the National Medical Research Institute here at Bethesda, Md. The work is concerned with rather secret projects. The men around me are among the greatest scientists in the world and are giving me a brilliant chanca for further education." Frank sends the usual to all the men in the class-
FRANK "HEAD" LINEHAN came up with an Imposing letterhead—"Knights of Columbus Recreation Building, Oswego. N. Y.—Frank M Linehan, Executive Secretary/* 
"I've been here just one year last week (that m^) was March). They gave me a very nice testi­monial dinner for my first anniversary, and "we burned the mortgage. My job as executive sec­retary is one of many—I am the "head" man— 
. the promotion man, personnel man, bookkeeper, and general boss. It's a very enjoyable job for I am not tied down to any one specific job. 
"We have four bowling alleys on the ground floor; soda fountain, lounge, and large auditorium 
. on the second; a large lounge, social room, and card room on the third floor. As yet the fourth floor is unfinished­
"I don't hear from too many of the boys. I was with JIM CLYNES at the Cansius basket­ball game in Buffalo—we had quite a reunion. He is still the same old Jim. I hear from RIORDAN AND PROF. BERGAN quite often. " 
"I expect to go to Philadelphia next month, so ril probably see ALLEN and a few more of the boys. 
"I get down to Schenectady quite a bit, .since that's my hometown—so the next time X am in town ril get in touch with you." (Note from Schacffer—I'm still waiting. Head. The ad­dress here is 1802 Hamburg St., 4-7656.) 
A brief, but informative note from BILL ^ ^ COGHLAN—"I'm just finishing my fourth year ~ at Jefferson Medical School here In Philadelphia. I hope to graduate the 23rd of May, and I have my Internship at the Jefferson Medical School Hospital starting July 1. I married Patricia Ann Matthews July 13, 1945^ We have a daughter, Patricia Ann, bom Nov^ 11, 1945. With me here at Jefferson Is JOHN boWLlNG. He Is going to stay here also for his Internship. OWEN DOYLE stopped here In Philly about two weeks ago. He graduates from Yale Medi­cal School in the n«ar future." 
Via his sister, Fran, the column learns that JOE GOSLIN is back at N.D. after three years of sub duty In the Navy. 
DICK MARTIN signs In from Marquette Uni­versity. "After a semester and a half at Santa Clara Law School, I decided that law was not my field, so I dropped It and switched to teach­ing. I am now a graduate assistant (instruct­or) In English at Marquette. 
"PHIL MARTIN, M5, my cousin is both an instructor in Chemistry and a law student here. We are both very busy but still find time for a 'few rounds,* and we don't forget to drink to all the boys. We saw JIM OTT at the N-D.-Marquette basketball game In Milwaukee. Heard recently from JACK STEWART, '46, who's in the Foreign Ser\*ice, at Paris, France.' 
• 

"As you can see from the letterhead, I'm back at Notre Dame," says JACK KEARNEY. "After being discharged from the Navy last June, I decided I did not want to go on with my pre­viously chosen field—Math—so I therefore re­
Volume 25, No. 3, June, 1947 
turned to Notre Dame to study what looks like, from your address, your field—electrical engin­eering." (Note from Scliaeffer—Jack. I'm a poor liberal arts man In tlie dtn of electrical engineers). "If everything turns out alright, I will graduate a year from this June. 
"The discipline at school has let up con­siderably since the veterans have returned. I guess the climax came last week when a bulle­tin came out permitting drinking anything any place, within the boundaries stated In the little gretn book. [And subject to the Indiana age law.—Ed.3 
"Since graduating I have not met anyone from the class of *45. Frankly, I don't know too many fellows from that class, since niy class Is actually the class of '46, but because of the accelerated program, I graduated in February, 
•45. I did hear however that JOHNNY MACK, of Niles, Mich., is learning the steel business from the bottom up. In a steel plant in Gary, Ind. I guess that's about all for now, except that I'm teaching Math here at N.D. while going to school." 
Last letter In the mailbox comes from BILL* CASTLE'S home in Lockport, N. Y., with the report that Bill Is in the Navy out at Guam. He received his D.D.S. from Marquette last year, married a Milwaukee girl, who Joined him on Guam In February. Bill was all set to hang out his shingle in Lockport when he was called in the Navy. He is hoping to be back in California on Dec. 6, for the So. Cal.-N.D. game. 
1946 
BILL. FAHRNER Is a test engineer in Detroit, Mich. 
The Los Angeles Dons of the All-Amerlcan conference have announced the signing of PETE BEREZNEY, 240 pound-tackle who played for 
N. D. In 1943-44-45. In the football department, too, comes word that STEVE NEMETH has placed his signature on one of JIMMY CROW­LEY'S contracts for 1947. Steve led the Chi­cago Rockets in scoring last season by totaling 59 points on nine field goals and 32 successive kicks after touchdown. FRANK DANCEWICZ of Lynn, Mass., helped with spring football practice at Boston University recently. He Is with the Boston Yanks of the All-America con­ference. 
JACK STEWART, who. as a State Depart­ment man. Is now with the United States Em­bassy in Paris. Is doubtless the most traveled man In the class. He has so much to say, and says It so well, that the "Alumnus," Is giving you here his letter of May 10 from Paris: 
"After over 150,000 miles of travel by plane, ship, train, truck, and auto, I have not lost my desire for new places. But then ten months of travel, regardless of Its constancy. Is not a long time. Perhaps some day I shall settle down in the States as a clock-punching citizen; now the Idea seems remote and unpleasant. With these many miles behind me It is only natural that some places should take precedence in my mind from a point of interest to beauty, oddity, and ugliness. With a modicum, of correlation I will jump from country to country, from con­tinent to continent. 
"The saddest place I have ever seen, one that would arouse a pang of. sympathy in the most calloused heart, is Warsaw, Poland. Never be­fore had I seen such systematic, total, diabolic destruction. Poland was destroyed from the East as well as the West! Block after block has been leveled to the cold, unproductive ground. Very aged men and women straining equally tired and old horses to remove the mountains of rubble that fill the city of Warsaw. With bent backs, cold, bruised hands In the January freeze, they labored aimlessly; brightly colored political banners were painted and 
' tacked about town notifying them that their salvation and recovery rested with the hammer and sickle. 
"Then ten thousand miles away and ten thousand feet in the air was the odd city of La Faz. Bolivia. Barefooted, be-derbled Indian women In multiple skirts and multi-colored shawls strut down the streets and squat In the parks on the pavement; they refuse the relative comfort of the benches. More than once on the drive from the airport it was necessary to stop the shiny new car while a ragged quechua chased a herd of llamas across the road. The blood had not yet been dried and removed from the streets where political fanatics had fallen; more will flow soon again. 
"And then back on the other side of the world. This time at the bllzzard-blown, modern airport at Moscow. The thrill of Rus­sia had been lost in the four nights and three day train trip from Berlin, but a nervous thrill was there, or Is It called fear? I was plenty nervous and fearful as I went in the door of that half-green—half-rust C-47 with the red star on the side. My fears were augmented when In strode a crew member, flight plan under one arm and a bottle of cognac, not vodka, under the other. I was ready to Jump out then and there but they no sooner were in the ship when the engines began rev(v)ing and we were ready to take ott. Since there is no competition in Russia there is no need for safety pre­cautions, comfort, or solicitude of passengers on the Soviet Air lines. Never had I prayed so hard; six hours later we were in Berlin. 
"May 1 must be Health Day the world over. In Algiers I saw a grimy Arab washing his feet in a public latrine, blow his nose on his fingers, rinse oft his hand. Then he walked down the Rue Victor Hugo, feeling quite spruced up and ready to see his best girl. Earlier that day I had witnessed a Communist demonstration in Tunis. Be-fez(z)ed, be-burnoosed, befuddled Arabs were carrying banners and placards for higher wages. I'll wager that not one of them had ever done more than pick a pocket, slit a throat, or salaam to the East in one day. 
"From the window of a Pan American Air­ways Clipper off the north coast of Brazil. I saw^ a lovely isle down in the blue-green serene waters. We circled low over It and saw it was apparently inhabited. Long, cool-looking, pro­tective buildings made It seem an oasis In the oppressive sun. The steward announced that we were now over Devil's Island. 
"Moments I hate to think about are those such as—losing four thousand feet over the Transylvanian Alps because of ice-coated wings, engine fire over savage-Infested eastern Ecua­dor, tlie storm at 29,000 feet in the gap be­tween the Andes on the flight from Buenos Aires to Santiago, $27 for a quart of whiskey (for medicinal purpose naturally) in the Hotel Borg in Reykjavik. Iceland, and prices in Paris. 
"Pleasant reflections are many: the scenery in eastern Switzerland and western Austria, the Antinorl Chiantl In Naples, Bols deBoulogne in Paris on a spring day, lobster preparation In the Canterbury In Brussels, steaks In Buenos Aires, lovely, fresh-looking girls in Stockholm, flying over Rio's harbor, and Notre Dame—in Paris and in Indiana." 
Private first class BOB MEUNIER of Kansas City. Mo.. Is now assigned as a clerk-typist in G-2 section. Headquarters, 1st Corps, Kyoto. Japan. 
THAT BOy OF YOURS 
(Continued from Page 26) 

major part the United States has now been called upon to play in world affairs. We approach this new responsibility hesitatingly, but with an idealism that is the product of an inheritance of free­dom from fear, unlimited opportunity and lavish prosperity. We would like to see the whole world share in the benefits of Democracy. We recog^nize its imper­fections, but we recommend it as a sub­stitute for other systems which have failed. Perhaps this generation of yonth, which has been hardened in the cradble of world batttefields, may be more re­alistic than we have been about dealing with the peoples of the world. Our record is one of great generosity but of limited success. We are still mistrusted by a world which cannot seem to comprehend us. 
BlMHings of Bccd Fraadom to All 

We would be less than realistic if we failed to recognize the dangers in the tedious, quarrelsome world peace negoti­ations that are now in progress. In these negotiations this country is repre­sented by men of character, experience and ability, who correctly express the desires of a Democracy that the blessings of real freedom be extended to all peoples of the world. They have eneoimtered opposition from sources whose philoso­phy of government would defeat every purpose for which we fought the recent war. Patience is a great virtue. It has been generously extended in these n^oti­ations. I^paredness under present circumstances is no less a virtue^ and may stand between us and the destruc­tion of our nation. No sacrifice at this time is too great to make to prepared­ness. Those responsible for the conduct of our government are entitied to know that we the people are for security above sentiment—for the preservation of our national defense at all costs. 
If world leadership has become our destiny, let us face it as the pioneers faced the building of the West. The qualities of the pioneer still run fresh in our blood. We now face a new phase of our history which calls for the best minds and strongest characters of our generation. Particularly do we need men who in addition to possessing the learn­ing of the classroom and the competitive spirit of the athletic fidd, have been trained in the precepts of the Divine Savior. The men of Notre Dame are well qualified for the job. 
CARDINAL TISSERANT ON CAMPUS 
Eugrehe Cardinal Tisserant, secretary of the Congregfation of 0rie.ntal Sites in the Catholic Church, was given an ovation by students and faculty of the University on Hay 8, following his ad­dress on the influence of the Vatican in promoting cultural relations between eastern and western Europe. 
The world-famous scholar was intro­duced by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president, who paid high tribute to the cardinal's scholarship, and to his pa­triotism in World War I during which he was decorated for bravery whUe serv­ing as a French soldier. 
^i/iecio^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
AKRON, O.—Murray Powers, '23, Akron Beacon-Journal ARKANSAS—Burt L. Roberts, '16, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock (secretary) BERRIEN COIINTY (Mich.)—William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles BENGAL, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C, '24, Dacca, East Bengal, India (key man) BLUE WATER DISTRICT (Mich.)—V/iUiam L. Wilson, '42, P.O. Box 295, Port Huron BOSTON, Mass.— Hugh F. Blunt, '24, 216-217 Home Banking BIdg., 105 Main St., Brockton 22, Mass. BUFFALO. N. Y.—Donald W. Love, '35, 6034 Main St., Williams-ville, N. Y. CALUMET DISTRICT—Fred J. Solman, Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Ind. (secretary) CANTON, O.—Glen T. Dubs, '35, 224 35th.St., N. W. CAPITAL DISTRICT (N. Y.)—John F. Campbell, '26, 252 S. Main, Albany 3 CENTRAL MICHIGAN—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '18, 828 N. Logan St., Lansing CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy CENTRAL NEW YORK—Mark E. Mooney, '25, 125 Butternut Drive, DeWitt CENTRAL OHIO—John J. Cannon, '30, 555 E. Broad St., Columbus CHICAGO, m.—Thomas S. McCabe, '22, 11 S. LaSalle St. CINCINNATL O.—J. Walter Nienaber, '37, 2106 Apline PI. CLEVELAND, O.—Hugh M. O'Neill, '17, 544 Terminal Tower CONNECTICUT VALLEY (Conn.)—Vincent E. Turley, '32, 13 Anna-wan SL, Hartford CUBA—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, La Metropolitana (711), Habana, Cuba (key man) DALLAS, Tex.—Walter L. Fleming, '40, 4549 Belfort Place DAYTON, O.—E. William Hoyne, '42, 205 Salem Ave. DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum, '36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C, Wilmington DENVER—Dr. Daniel G. Monaghan, '38, 440 William DES MOINES, la.—Joseph E. Whalen, '29, Hotel Savery DETROIT. Mich.—Joseph A. Bach, '26, 505 Park Ave., c/o Detroit Lions . DUBUQUE, la.—C. I. Krajewski, '16, 1775 S Grandville Ave. EASTERN INDIANA—Charles F. Vogt, Muncie EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, 3004 Turner St., Allentovim ERIE, Pa.—James B. Dwyer, '37, 4005 State St. FLORIDA—William H. McCormick, '32, c/o Miami Mattress Co., 
60 N. W. 13th St., Miami FORT WAYNE, Ind.—Bernard T. Kearns, '29, 903 Pasadena Drive GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.—Josenh F. Deeb, '31, 500 Cambridge 
Blvd., S. E. GREEN BAY. Wis.—John D. Clancy, '35, 525 Clay St. HAMILTON, O.—Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 708 Rentschler Bldg. HARRISBUHG. Pa.—Robert J. Klaiber, '35, 72-A Hummel, 
LeMoyne, Pa. HAWAII—William K. Hanifin, '35, 1635 Clark St., Honolulu HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wjs.)—Norman C. Bartholomew, '15, 225 
Cleveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich. HOUSTON, Tex.—Robert C. Scoggins, '24, 430 Humble Bldg ILLINOIS FOX VALLEY—Dr. Philip C. Hemming, '29, 399 Vincent 
PL, Elgin, III. INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.—Patrick J. Fisher, '36, 616 Indiana Trust Bldg. IRON RANGE (Mich.-Wis.)-Theodore A. Nolan, '33, 302 Arch St., 
Ironwood, Mich. JACKSON. Mich.—Lyman H. Hill, Jr., '29, 5205 U. S. 127, S. JOLIET, ni.-Joseph V. Kirincich, '33, 500 Ruby St. EASTERN KANSAS—Daniel F. Foley, '23, 122 Spruce St., Leaven­
worth KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.)—Thomas M. Reardon, '39, 1104 
W. 75th Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. KENTUCKY—William J. Woemer, '38, 208 Mayfair, Oxford Place, 
Louisville LACROSSE, Wis.—John A. Elliott, '25, 1420 King St. LIMA, O.—Robert E. Sullivan, '40, 702 Cook Tovrer LOS ANGELES, Calil.—Thomas R. Ashe, '31, Globe Oil Tools Co., 
Los Nietos, Calif. MANILA—^Anthony F. Gonzalez, '25, The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg., Manila, P. L (key man) MARYLAND—Lewis J. O'Shea, '31, 307 St. Dunstan's Rd., Home­
land, Baltimore 12 MEMPHIS, Tenn.—T. J. Foley, Jr., '35, 666 S. McLean MEXICO—Roberto C. Resales, '47, Palma Notre 402, Mexico, D. F. 
(key man) 

MICHIGAN CITY, Ind.—Hugh L. Burns, '39, Department of Ath­letics, Notre Dame, Ind. MILWAUKEE, Wis.—Thomas E. Dixon, '41, 127 N. 74th St., Mil­
waukee 13 

MINNESOTA—Robert M. Rogers, '43, 949 Grand Ave., St. Paul 
MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.)—Frank Donalty, '33, 23 Beverly PL, 
Utica, N. Y. MONONGAHELA VALLEY (Vo.)—Edv;^ard J. Dean, '28, 11 Linden Ave., Monessen, Pa. • MONTANA—Edward F. Simonich, '39, 608% Travonia St., Butte, Mont NAUGATUCK VALLEY—D. Frank Murnane, '32, Summit Rd., 
Prospect, Conn. NASHVILLE, Tenn.—W. Kennedy Jones, '30, P. O. Box 773 NEW JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich, '35, 27 Leo Place, Newark NEW ORLEANS, La.—Jules K. de la Vergne, '33, 5811 Hurst NEW YORK, N. Y.—Tierney A. O'Rourke, '30, 75-12 35th Ave., 
Jackson Hgts., N. Y. NORTHERN CALIFOHNIA—John W. Carey, '41, 3200 Birdsall Ave., Oakland NORTHERN LOUISIANA—James R. Nowery, '29, P. O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94 NORTHERN NEW YORK—Judge Cornelius J. Carey, '30, 12 Park . 
St., Malone I OHIO VALLEY—Edmund A. Sargus, '33,41 Harrison St., Bellaire, O. OKLAHOMA—W. E. Leroux, '33, 1724 S. Madison, Tulsa, Okla. OREGON—Robert G. Molin, '40, 315 S. W. Alder St., PorUand PANAMA—Joseph H. Harrington, '39, Box 831, Ancon, Canal Zone 
(key man) PEORIA, ni.—Daniel J. Hecht, '44, c/o Adams Typewriter Co., 227 
S. Jefferson St. PHILADELPHIA; Pa.—Charles A. Conley, '35, 100 E. TurnbuU Ave., Havertown, Pa. PUERTO RICO—Paul F. McManus, '34, B S M Products Co., Box 
2695, San Juan PHOENIX, Ariz.—John P. Joyce, '40, 830 Forest Ave., Tempe, Ariz. RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS—John J. McLaughlin, 
'34, Mendon Rd., Cumberland Hill, R. I. ROCHESTER, N. Y.—Joseph M. Geraghty, '28, 50 Quentin Rd. ROCK RIVER VALLEY. Rl.-Donald A. Hennessy, '37, Catholic 
Community High School, Sterling, 111. SAGINAW VALLEY, Mich.—Joseph C. Goddeyne, '11, 2275 Carroll 
Rd., Bay City, Mich. SAN ANTONIO. Texas—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stanford Dr. SANDUSKY, O.—John J. Millott, '27, 913 Osborne St. SCRANTON. Pa.—Louis J. Finske, '19, Gravel Pond No. 2, Clarks 
Summit, Pa. SIOUX CITY, la.—Edward J. Lalley, 3251 Nebraska St., Sioux City 18 (key man) SOUTHEASTERN CONNECTICUT—John G. MoUoy, '29, 115 Ashley* 
St., Bridgeport, Conn. , SPRINGFIELD, HI.-Nicholas C. Amrhein, '39, 1523 S. Fourth St. ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Ind. and Mich.)—Albert L. Doyle, '27, 715 
coin Way East, Mishawaka, Ind. ST. LOUIS. Mo.—Fred C. Weber, Jr., '35, 5539 University Drive. TIFFQl, O.—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 84% S. Washington St. TOLEDO, O.—Robert F. Schramm, '39, 729 Grove PI. TRI-CrriES (m. and Iowa)—Francis C. Kmg, '19, Court House, 
Rock Island, 111. (secretary) TRIPLE CITIES (N. Y.)—James H. Hogan, '34, 42 Oak St., Bing­hamton, N. Y. TRI-STATE (Ky., Ind. and Rl.)-Francis J. Henneberger, '31, 502 
N. Hart St., Princeton, Ind. TUCSON, Ariz.—Ted W. Witz, '29, Box 528 UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Seminary Ave., Rich­
mond 22 (key man) WABASH VALLEY, Ind.—D. Emmett Ferguson, '32, 721 N. 9th St., Lafayette, Ind. WASHINGTON, b . C—Daniel Culhane, '23, 3540 39th St., N. W. WATEHBURY, Conn.—Joseph H. Robinson, '31, 95 Boyberry Dr., 
Bristol WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Lavrrence J. O'Toole, '36, 425 S. Aiken Ave., Pittsburgh WESTERN WASHINGTON—Charles F. Osbom, Jr., '38, 603 Central Bldg., Seattle WEST VIHGnnA—Joseph F. Neenan, '41, 4012 Venable Ave., Charleston ^ WISCONSIN—Soulh Cenlral—John W. Roach, '25, 2115 Van His ^ 
Ave., Madison YOUNGSTOWN. O.—Clarence T. Sheehan, '40, THE VINDICATOR WILKES-BARHE, Pa.—Gilbert V. Perry, '31, 190 Wyoming Ave., 
Wyoming, Pa. 










