The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volmue 32. No. I 
January-February. 1954 

NOTRE 
James E. Arnistrons;, '25, Editor 

DAME 
John N. Cacklcv, Jr., '37, Managing Editor 
RECENT GRADUATES SLiRAEV 
FOOTBALL HIGHLIGHTS 
pam' 15 

k21­
MtM.^^izJt^i 

Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus — a focal point of student religious life and tlic scene of many aliunn! weddings. ; 
to the ALUMNUS going to press, 123 American corporations had contrib­uted financial support to Notre Dame. 1954 FOUNDATION PROGRAM Scholarships, fellowships and research grants were provided by 105 corpora­tions, while 18 corporations restricted Stress Faculty Development Fund their gifts for the Distinguished Pro­
The Notre Dame Foundation pro­gram in 1954 will be highlighted by a meeting on campus of State Gov­ernors and Git}' Ghairmen; a personal solicitation campaign of all alumni through the efforts of governors and chairmen in the early months of this year; and a continuing emphasis on the over-all Facultj'Development Fund as well as advancing the Distinguished Professors Program through corpora­tion support. 
Since the January ALUMNUS will be published prior to a complete year-end report for 1953, final statistics wU be annovmced in the follo\ving issue. From all indicationSj as the magazine goes to press, 1953 will have been one of the most productive years of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Governors and chairmen, from those states and cities where there is the heaviest concentration of alumni, will return to the University for a real workshop session on Febru­ary 12. All phases of Foundation ac­tivity ^vill be discussed with the more­than-80 representatives expected to attend the conference and University administrative officials will outline va­rious aspects of the Foundation pro­gram as they apply to physical expan­sion on campus and academic devel­opments. 
New Governors, Chairmen 
Many of those attending the meet­ing will have been recently appointed to Foundation duties by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G., presi­dent, during a process of re-organiza­tion. The program is being planned which wU allow for maximum dis­cussion periods among participants. Ideas stimulating from those present at the conference will undoubtedly result in furnishing the Foundation campus staff, under the direction of the Rev. John J. Gavanaugh, G.S.G., with additional constructive methods of operation. 
A personal solicitation campaign of 
FATHER GAVANAUGH 
alumni in chairmen areas will start on March 1 and continue through May 20, 1954. Gommittees, working under the supervision of Gity Ghair­men, will be supplied with informa­tion and material from the campus office for this project. In addition to personal contact during the campaign, the Foundation office will send out the usual number of direct mail pieces for the 12th Annual Alumni Fund. In attempting to obtain 100% response from alumni-givers, during this spe­cial period. Governors, Ghairmen and Committees wU then have an oppor­tunit)' to coiicentrate on non-alumni solicitation during the remaining months of the calendar year. 

Personal SolicUation Campaign 
The campus office wU forward a report of contributors to Gity Ghair­men and he in turn will notify solici­tors concerning those who have given to the Foimdation. By the close of the campaign on May 20 alumni in Chairmen cities will have had at least one contact from a soliciting com­mitteeman. 
By mid-December, 1953, just prior fessors Program. 
Father Gavanaugh emphasized that "Notre Dame is a private institution which receives financial assistance from neither Church nor State and which must rely in increasing measure on its alumni, friends and corpora­tions for support." 

Industry and Private Education 
Pointing up industry's stake in prij vate education. Father Cavanaugil stated that 180 industrial and business^ organizations sent representatives tojj Notre Dame during 1952-53 to inter-] view seniors for emplo>'mcnt with! their firms. "We are pleased and^ proud that so many of our recent ^ graduates have already established) themselves as junior executives in cor-5 porations from coast to coast," Father! Gavanaugh said. 
Noting that four major buildings have been erected on campus in less than two years. Father Gavanaugh re­ported that all unrestricted gifts to the University during 1954 would be allocated for faculty development. 
With the continued cooperation of ] individual alumni, of alumni clubs, non-alumni friends and corporations, and of Governors and Ghairmen, 1954 could conceivably be the year^ of greatest financial support for Notre Dame since the Foundation was or-J ganized in 1947. 
FRONT COVER—With the "new look" becoming more prevalent than otherwise it was thought that the Notre Dame ALUMNUS should fall in line so beginning with the initial issue of 1954 a new cover different in design from any other alumnus maga­zine anywhere, we believe, is presented for the first time. And to keep pace with it, variations in headline styling and general makeup have been added. 
^ 

—J. N. C. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 




Elect Five New Alumni Board Directors 
All Members To Attend January Meeting 
\i 
Four new directors for the Alumni Board have been elected for three-year terms while one other will com­plete the une.Kpired term of Galvin Hudson, '15. Those who will be members of the Board until 1957 in­clude Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., '37, Mid­land, Te.\., John E. Mclntyre, '31, 
I 
South Bend, Ind., James L. Ferstel, '48, Chicago, III., and Robert H. Gore, Jr., '31, Ft. Lauderdale, Flor­
ida. Karl Martcrsteck, '29, Cleveland, O., will serve a one-year term fulfill­
ing Mr. Hudson's vacancy. 
Balloting was heavy and all eight candidates received generous national 
?'i 
support. The new directors will at­tend their first meeting when the board convenes on campus, Januar>' 22-23. Holdover directors who have been members of the board include '53 President John H. Neeson, Jr., '35, Philadelphia, Pa., J. Ralph Coryn, '22, Moline, 111., John W. Courtney, '25, Dearborn, Mich., James G. McGold­rick, '39, New York City, Daniel Cul­hane, '23, Chevy Chase, Md., Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. B. Toomey, '26, Syracuse, N. Y., John F. Saunders, '31, Boston, Mass., and Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa. Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong, '25, completes the present list. 
Outgoing directors include Hon­orarj' President Harvey G. Foster, '39, Cincinnati, ,0., Joseph S. Morrissey, '28, Cincinnati, O., Luther M. Swy­gert, '27, Chesterton, Ind., and Wil­liam C. Schmitt, '10, Pordand, Ore. 
Joe O'Neill played varsity football in 1934-5-6 and basketball in 1937. Currently Joe is an independent oil operator. He is married, has one daughter and three sons. John Mc­lntyre was formerly president of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club and has long been active in South Bend civic affairs. He is vice-president and general manager of Sibley Machine and Foundry Co. John is married and has two daughters. 
Jim Ferstel is the son of WiUiam G. Ferstel, '00. Jim is.practicing law in Chicago after servihg as trial counsel with the U. S. Army in Osaka, Japan. Bob Gore is associated with the many interests of the Gore family in Florida. He is president and man­aging director of Governor's Club and Sea: Ranch hotels and treasurer of the Ft. Lauderdale News and Station WFTL-TV. Bob is married and has four children. Karl Martersteck is as­sistant division manager with Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co., and also president of the Cleveland ND Alimi­ni Club and Foundation city chair­man. He is married, has one daugh­ter, and a son at Notre Dame. 
Joe O'Neill John Mclntyre Bob Gore Jim Ferstel Karl Martersteck 
y GUS DORAIS DIES III AFTER LONG ILLNESS 
Charles E. (Gus) Dorais,'14, Knute Rockne's teammate and the man who revolutionized the game of football 30 seasons ago by introducing the for­ward pass as an offensive weapon, died on January 3 at his Birmingham, Michigan home. He had been ill for more than a year. 
Mr. Dorais gained fame not only as a Notre Dame great but also as coach of Detroit University for 18 years, and later as head coach of the De­troit Lions for five seasons. 
In the summer of 1913 the Dorais to Rockne forward pass combination was perfected while the t^vo were working at a resort near Sandusky, O. That fall the pair completed 12 passes good for three touchdowns against Army and upset the Cadets 35-13. It was a game that has gone down in football's record books as one of the most famous ever played. 
He is survived by his ^vife and four children who were at his bedside when he died. 
Xotre Dame Atumnui, Jan.-Feb., 1954 
•from your 
Alumni Secretary 




ZdUo^Uai Qo4nme4^ 
Happy New Year! 
The llOth anniversary of the char­tering of Notre Dame by the State of Indiana! 
The Marian Year designated by His Holiness, Pius XII, to culminate in the Centenar)' of the Dogma of the Immaculate Conception! 
All Notre Dame will be sending special and added prayers through Our Lady. The Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes has special significance. The much newer Shrine of Our Lady' of Fatima on the Niles Road, with its ready parking for travelers, as well as the long-worn paths from the campus, is a rich depot of devotion. 
It should be a happy new year, in­deed . . .' 
^Vhat impressed you most about the football season? An undefeated sea­son is always impressive. But the grim intensity of Frank Leahy for his work; the unending drive of his assistant coaches, and the willingness, work and teamwork of his team must have made themselves clear, whether on the field or on television or on Joe Boland's Irish NeUvork. 
Intellectual Champions 
It has frequently occurred to you, no doubt, what teachers could do with classes if the same combination of abilit)', selectivity, and intensity could be projected into the academic pro­cesses. Intellectual champions! 
But has it occurred to you what Notre Dame's progress could enjoy if you as alumni promoted the University program with this ability, teamwork, and intensity of purpose? You could be champions, in every phase of alum­ni effort! . . . 
"Overemphasis." This term is a familiar one with Notre Dame men. We have heard it for years in terms of football. More recently, the Alumni Office has been hearing it, from Notre Dame men this time, in terms of money-raising. 
The analysis is unattractively simple in both fields. 
When Notre Dome Men Gather 
The two things that all of us under­stand and can talk about are football and money. Inevitably, when two or more Notre Dame men gather, these two subjects follow the weather in close order. 
But this is not overemphasis. It is simply an emphasis that any great common denominator enjoys. 
The unhappy point is that it ob­scures the many enjoyable and signifi­cant subjects that are common only to segments, and victims of conversational segregation. 
The law alumnus who meets the doctor or the engineering alumnus on the street hesitates to tell them about the symposia in the College of Law for fear of disinterest. 
The doctor or the scientist, meeting the teacher or the manufacturer, will instinctively hold back comment on LOBUND, or biolog>', or radiation studies, for fear of being misunder­stood or pressed for detailed explana­tions. 
The Great Traditions of N.D. . 
The writer or the business man, meeting almost any fellow alumnus, will fail to comment, on the Marian Year, or Universal Communion Sun­day, because in the great tradition of Notre Dame he may not know whether his fellow alumnus is a Catholic, and worries about his enthusiasm being misinterpreted. 
So the usual greeting is "Great . team," or "I suppose you got another blank check this week." 
It is human nature. It is fact. It is likely to continue. But please don't call it overemphasis. Neither athletics nor money-raising have disturbed the fundamental perspectives and purposes of Notre Dame. 
So during 1954, let's try to switch back to the silver lining, and stop wonydng about the cloud that has it. BeUeve me, we have made great progress.—JIM ARMSTRONG. 

Lt. Simons, '52, USAF Dies in Greenland; Falls on Mt. Hassel 
The ALUMNUS has recently been i informed that Leonard R. Simons, Jr.,' '52 and a member of the AFROTC, died July 4, 1953 as the result of a fall while hiking on Mount Hassel in Greenland where, as 2nd Lieut., he was stationed at the Sondrestrom Air Base. 
Leonard was buried from thej Church of the Visitation in Minne-l apolis, Minnesota, his hometown. He is survived by his parents Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Simons, 4248 Garfield Ave., I South, Minneapolis, and two sisters, H Mrs. Paul Murphy, Chaska, Minn, and " Mary Clare Simons, Minneapolis. 
Leonard was called to active duty on September 20, 1952 at Lackland | Air Force Base, Texas and served at Maxwell Field from November 1952 to May 1953. He arrived at Sondrest-1 rem located on the west coast of Greenland just north of the Arctic Circle and about one hundred miles inland from the coast, on June 23, 1953. 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the Universit>' of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under tlie act of Aug. 24,1912. 
 JVolr< Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 


GOLDEN JUBILEE ON CHRISTMAS DAY 
The Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., celebrated his Golden Jubilee as a priest with the principal event being a High Mass sung on Christ­mas Day at 10:00 a.m. by Father Schumacher in the Church of St. Mary of the Assumption in South Bend. This is the same church in which Father Schumacher said his First Mass on Christmas Day 1903, and his Silver Jubilee Mass in 1928. It is also the 

Furnishings valued at $1600 for the new faculty lounge and adjacent kitchen in the Nieuwland Science Hall were contributed by an anonymous benefactor. The lounge is dedicated to the memory of Rev. Ernest A. Davis, former professor of Chemistry at Notre Dame who died recently. 
church in which he received his First Holy Communion and was confirmed. 
Father Schumacher is a former Dean of Studies (1907-1919 and again 1926­1927) at Notre Dame, and a former President of St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas (1919-1925), and of the College of St. Thomas in St Paul, Minn. (1928-1933). 
Since 1934, he has been Chaplain and Professor of Philosophy and Reli­gion at St Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind. 

Father Schumacher first came into national prominence as Chairman of the Committee on Standardization of Catholic Colleges, 1917-1922. Under his leadership, this committee of the Catholic Educational Association ac­complished the huge task of standard­ization, often in the face of great obstacles and sometimes of opposition. 



The Alumni Association 
University of iVotre Dame 
Dear Fellow Alumni: 

By the time you read this, my lost letter to you cs President, another year will hove passed and a new President will have been elected by the Alumni Board of Directors. It has been on honor and a privilege for me to serve as President of your Association. 
During the post year, nine new local Alumni Clubs have been formed and our ranks hove been augmented by ap­proximately 1000 graduated seniors. It is rather startling to many of us when we realize that 53% of our 23,000 Alumni have graduated since 1940. Of the 140 Alumni Clubs now in existence, only 20 failed to report at least one meeting in the last twelve months. 
Jon, 5, 1954 

Personally, I feel we hove the broadest and about the most active and enthusiastic Alumni in the world. You are to be congratulated on your club activity and on your re­sponse to the needs of Notre Dome. I hope you will increase your participation in Association afFairs in the coming year so that we all may render greater honor and glory to Our Lady's University. 
On behalf of the Officers and Staff of the Alumni Association, and for myself, may I extend to each of you cordial greetings with the hope that our Blessed Mother will core for and guide all of us throughout this Marion- year of 1954. 
Sincerely yours, 
JOHN H. NEESON, JR., President 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 

Dean Weimer Lectures at N.D. 

Dean Arthur M. AVeimer of the Indiana University School of Business gave two lectures to students in Notre Dame's College of Commerce recently. He discussed "Trends in Business and Education for Business" and "Indus­trial Dex'elopment and City Growth." Dean AVeimer was the fourth guest lecturer in the current series sponsored by the University's College of Com­merce Advisor)' Council. 
Weimer, nationally recognized as a leading authority on real estate and land economics, became dean of the Indiana Universit)' School of Business in 1939. Under his leadership, the school established a gi"aduate study program making it one of the few in­stitutions in the United States granting the master's degree and doctorate in business. 

Father Gabriel Publishes Work 
The Reverend A. L. Gabriel, di­rector of Notre Dame's Mediaeval In­stitute, has just published a study of Robert de Sorbonnc, founder of the famous French college which beats his name. Father Gabriel prepared his treatise in connection with the /OOtli anniversary of the College of Sor­bonne in Paris which is being observed this year both in Europe and this country. He is secretary of the Amer­ican committee for the septi-centennial celebration. A specialist in mediaeval education, Father Gabriel based much of his research on the Mediaeval In­stitute's microfilm collection of the history of great European universities. 

Msgr. Calip Invested on Campus 
The Very Reverend Osmundo A. Calip, a Filipino priest studying for his 
6 Notrt Dame Alumnus, ]an,~Feb., 1954 
master's degree at the University of Notre Dame, was solemnly invested recently at Notre Dame, as a papal chamberlain to the Holy Father by the Most Rev. John F. 6'Hara, C.S.C, Archbishop of Philadelphia. 
Pablo Pena, acting Philippine con­sul in Chicago, represented his govern­ment at the rites. The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C. S. C , vice-president in charge of academic affairs at Notre Dame, was the University's official representative. Among specially in­vited guests were members of the Phil­ippine Catholic Guild of Chicago as well as Philippine students from Notre Dame and other colleges and univer­sities in this area. Monsignor Calip is vice-chancellor and assistant super­intendent of schools in the Arch­diocese of Nueva Segovia in the Philippines. 


Meehan Scholarships 
One student from each of six south­ern states will be eligible for a four-year scholarship at the University of Notre Dame beginning in September, 1954, it was announced by the Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, chairman of the University's scholarship commit­tee. 
The Meehan Scholarships, founded in 1936 by the late Augustus F. Mee­han of Chattanooga, Tennessee, pro­vide an annual stipend of ^750 for four years for one qualified high school graduate from Alabama, Geor­gia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Te.\as and Virginia. Neither religious creed nor financial necessity are determinants in deciding the scholarship winners. The official application form and other details may be obtained by writing the Meehan Scholarship Committee, Uni­versity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

Arbitration Meeting Report 
The Notre Dame Arbitration Com­mittee has recently announced the publication of the PROCEEDINGS of the CONFERENCE on ARBITRA­TION in LABOR-M.\NAGEMENT RELATIONS held here last winter. The sessions were sponsored by the Department of Economics, the College of Law, and the American Arbitration Association. 
Other universities which in the past have co-sponsored such arbitration 
conferences  are  Yale,  Rutgers,  the '•,  
University  of  Pennsylvania,  and  the  
University of  California.  

The Proceedings, which are avail­able from the Arbitration Committee, Box 42, Notre Dame, Ind., are $1.25 per copy. 

Mediaeval Institute Publications 
The Mediaeval Institute of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame has inaugurated a new series of publications entitled "Te.vts and Studies in the History of Mediaeval Education." The Rev. A. 
L. Gabriel, director of the Institute and a specialist on mediaeval univer­sities will be editor of the series and the Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., will serve as assistant editor. The Mediae­val Institute has a highly specialized library in the history of higher educa­tion in the Middle Ages. Its scholars devote much of their time to the edit­ing of unknown te.vts of scholastic thinkers at these first universities. 
Father Gabriel currently is prepar­ing a history of Ave Maria College, at Paris, as part of the University of Notre Dame's contribution to the observance of the Marian Year recent­ly proclaimed by Pope Pius XII. 

Gregorian Chant Anniversary 
The golden anniversary' of the papal decree proclaiming Gregorian Chant as the official music of the Catholic Church was observed at Notre Dame recently with a series of services featur­ing chant by the congregation and a concert by the Moreau Seminary Choir. 
The congregation sang the Ordinary at High Masses in Sacred Heart Church while the Moreau Choir chanted the Propers of the Mass at the earlier service. The new Faculty-Student Choir sang the Propers at the later Mass. The active participation of the congregation in Church serv­ices was one of the aims of Pope Pius X and has become a decided trend in recent years. 


Dr. Wallace Speaks to Students 

Dr. S. Rains Wallace, Jr., director of research for the Life Insurance Agenc y Management Association, Hartford, Connecticut, gave a series of three lectures recendy before students and faculty members in Notre Dame's College of Commerce. He was the third guest lecturer in the current series sponsored by the University's College of Commerce Advisory Coun­
cil. Wallace is the author of a number of Association publications and has contributed several articles to psycho­logical journals and other publications. 

Paintings Exhibited 
A collection of ten paintings of .-•Vmerican religious folk groups by Constantine Kermes were exhibited in the galleries of the O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts. A blend of new and old world concepts is readily recognized in the works of this 29-year­old artist who works in a Thoreau-like setting on one of Pennsylvania's wood­ed hills near Pittsburgh. It is in this "Workshop of the Woods," as Kermes calls it, that the artist develops his sketches into colorful paintings of the Pennsylvania Dutch, the rapidly dis­appearing Shakers, and the Spanish Americans of New Mexico. 

Our Lady of Lourdes Grotto 
The beautiful Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes on the Notre Dame campus will be a center of prayer and devo­tion for students and visitors during the Marian Year. The Marian Year, promulgated by Pope Pius XII who visited Notre Dame in 1936, commem­orates the 100th anniversary of the definition of the dogma of the Im­maculate Conception of Our Lady for whom Notre Dame is named. 
The campus shrine, constructed of unhewn rock and situated beneath a canopy of trees, is a replica of the world-famed Grotto at Lourdes in France where Our Lady appeared to Saint Bernadette on eighteen occasions during 1858. During one of these apparitions, the Virgin Mary identi­fied herself declaring: "I am the Im­maculate Conception," as if to confirm the dogma which had been pro­claimed four years earlier by Pope Pius IX. 
Hampered by lack of funds, the construction of the Grotto was not completed until 1896. Completion of the shrine was made possible largely through the generosity of the Rev­erend Thomas Carroll of Oil City, Pennsylvania, who at one time was a theological student at Notre Dame. 

Law Students in Moot Court 
Three students of Notre Dame's College of Law participated in the regional rounds of the National Inter-Law School Moot Court Competition recently held in Chicago. They were Joseph T. Helling, Elwood City, Pen­nsylvania; Carl F. Eiberger, Denver, 
Basketball captain Dick Rosenthal  was  a  popular fellow at  a  recent party sponsored by  Colorado;  and  AVilbur  F. Pollard,  
Notre Danie and St. Mary's students in the Northern Indiana Children's Hospital.  Kansas City, Missovuri.  
Notre Dame Alumnutt Jan.-Feb.f 1954  



N. D. FOUNDATION CHAIRMEN 
Recent Appointees Named by Fr. Hesburgh 
ARIZONA 
Phoenix—Robert D. Kendall, '31, 37 
VV.
 Pasadena Ave. — Tucson — Elmer 

W.
 Besten, '27, 2733 Devon Drive. 


CALIFORNIA 
Los Angeles — Eugene M. Kennedy, '22, 148 S. Orange Bnve.—San Fran­cisco—^William T. Daly, '41, Medical Dental Building, Suite 11, 1515 Sloat Boulevard. 
COLORADO 
Colorado. Springs—^Villiam J. Done-Ian, Jr., '29, 1800 Mesa Avenue, Broadmoor. —Denver — Eugene Blish, '34, 1370 Madison Street 
CONNECTICUT 
Hartford—Frauds T. Aheam, '27, 173 Four Mile Road, West Hartford, Con­necticut—Waterbury—^William J. An­dres, '18, 135 Cables Avenue. 
FLORIDA 
Fort Lauderdale—^Robert H. Gore, Jr., "31, 221 N.E. River Bnve.—Miami Faris N. Cowart, '34, 278 Aragon Ave., Coral Gables, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta—K^xeA R. Abrams, '21, 362 Jones Avenue. 
IDAHO 
Botjg—Francis H. Neitzel, '23, 726 Mesa Drive. 


ILLINOIS 
C/ifcago—James R. Martin, '23, 933 

E. 95th Street—/o/fet —William J. Bossingham, '25, 306 D'Arcy Bldg.— MoZine—John R. Coryn, '22, 2545 13th St—Peoria—^William J. Motsett, '34, 324 S. AVashington.-iiocfc/ord-James H. Dunn, Jr., '39, 206 Guard St—Rock Island—^Edward J. Meagher, '21, 1513 34th Stce&t.—Springfield —John R Lynaugh, '39, 500 W. Cal­houn.—Sterling—Joseph H. Bittorf, '33, 1411 First Avenue. 
8 Notre Dame AtumnuSy Jan.-Feb., 1954 


INDIANA 

Anderson—Elmo A. Funk, '11, 920 W. 8th.—Elkhart—Robert F. Holtz, '38, 1021 Strong Avenue.—Evansville— Ralph F. Heger, '25, 8121 Newburgh Road, Route 6, Bo.\ 346.—Fort Wayne —Col. John R. FI}'nn, '23, 708 Fort AVa)'ne Bank Building.—Calumet Dis­trict, Flast Chicago, Gary, Hammond, Whiting—\Mmzxn L. Travis, '27, 7126 Jeflferson, Hammond, Ind.—Indiana-napolis—Patrick J. Fisher, '35, 605 
E. 42nd Street.—Kokomo—tJiark E. Zimmerer, '21, 1124 W. Webster St. —Lafayette—^Dr. Kenneth F. Laws, '36, 501-5 Lafayette Life Building.— Logansport-—Thomas G. Medland, '30, 2330 E. Broadway.—Manon— James M. Gardand, '41, Shady Hills.—Michigan City^—John P. Don­nelly, '39, 218 E. 8th st^Muncie— Howard R. DeVault, '32,; 812 Marsh. Notre Dame—^Lawrence.H; Baldinger, '31, Dean, College of Science.—Rich­mond—^Norman B. Jenkins, '30, 144 
5.
 21st St-^outh Bend—Bemard J. Voll, '17, 628 Park Ave.—Terre Haute —^Louis F. Keifer, '16, Vice President 

6.
 Manager, Tribune-Star Publishing Co., Inc.— Vincennes — James D. McQuaid, '31, 28 N. Fifth Street. 



IOWA 

Davenport—D. John Hickey, III, '36, 705 E. Rusholme. — Des Moines — Harold P. Klein, '26, 512 Polk Boule­vard.-Dubuque—^Thomas B. Schmid, '40, 2310 Simpson Street 

KANSAS 

Salina—iiorbert F. Skelley, '25, Low's Drug Store, 109 N. Sante Fe. 

KENTUCKY 

Louisville—Carl B. Ratterman, '37, 3711 Lexington Road. 

LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Wnmam B. Dreux, '33, 2715 St. Charles Avenue.—Shreveport —Robert A. Roy, '27, 509 Market St 

A^RYLAND 

Baltimore — Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 
'35, 1327 Pentwood Road. 

MASSACHUSEHS 

Boston—Arthur T. McManmon, '31, 3050 AVashington Street.—Springfield | —William A. Hurley, '28, 181 Wheeler Avenue, 

MICHIGAN 

Battle Creek—n. Chase Black, Jr., '49, Architects Haughey &. Black, 423 Post / | Building.—Benton Harbor—G. Clem­ens Theisen, '32, 1258 Miami Road. 
1

—Detroit-Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., '36, Cronin Coal Company, 2632 Buhl Building. — Flint — Thomas F. Halli­gan, '44, 1615 E. Court St.~Grand Rapids—George A. Jackoboice, '31, 327 Front Avenue, N.AV.—Jackson— Lyman H. Hill, Jr., '29, 5202 Jackson Road, South.—Kalamazoo—Paul W. O'Connell, '44, 1729 Sunnyside Drive. —jV/onroe—William J. Gallagher, '50, 812 Hollywood Drive.—Muskegon— George E. Ludwig, '25, 372 E, Morris Avenue,^?or( Huron—Harrj' S, Erd, Jr,, '46, Erd-Marshall Company,— Saginaw—Carl W, Doozan, '38, 723 S. Fayette Street, 

MINNESOTA 

Du/uf/t—Philip G, Hoene, '38, 1424 Vermilion Road, — Minneapolis—Pat­rick A, Doughert)', '50, 515 Syndicate Bldg,—^t. Paul—Robert M. Rogers, '43, 2160 AVellesley. 

MISSOURI 

Kansas City—Richard J. Bowes, '38, 5525 Rockhill Road.—^f. Louw—John J, Griffin, Jr,, '39, 10263 St. Charies Rock Road. 

MONTANA 

Butte—Dr. Richard C. Monahan, '98, 210-11 Mayer Building. 

NEBRASKA 

Omaha—Ted Miller, 425 Fairacres Road. 

NEW JERSEY 
Asbury Park—^John J. Wingerter, '28, Little Ballingarry, Spring Lake, N. J. —Camden—Frank E. Vittori, '49, 1346 Browning.—Elizabeth—^James T. Quinn, '27, 425 Stanton Street, Rah-way. New Jersey.—Jersey City—Harry 
A. O'Mealia, Jr., '43, 2600 Hudson BJdg., Jersey City N. J,—Newark— Jjhn A. Pindar, '40, 24 Commerce St. • —Paterson — Joseph A. Abbott, '30, 275 Park Avenue.—Perth Amboy— Anthony V. Ceres, '28, 440 Brodhead Place. — Trenton — Peter J. Morgan, 

, Jr., '29. 21 N. Lenapc Avenue. 
NEW MEXICO 
Albuquerque—Charles F. O'Malley, '39. P. O. Box 595. 
NEW YORK 
.4/6aH)^John F. Campbell, '26, 252 
S. Main Street. — Auburn — Thomas 
R. Herbert, '48, 8 Linn Ave.— Binghamton — James H. Hogan, '34, 37 Oak Street. — Buffalo — Anthony 

W. Brick, Jr., '36, Sweeney Bidg., North Tonawanda, New York. —Elmira—Francis F. O'Brien, '35, 412 E. Church Street.—Geneva—^John 
F. Larson, '28, 407 S. Main Street.— New York City—Louis J. Burns, Jr., '49, 441 Lexington Ave.—Rochester —Charles J. O'Brien, '50, 82 Camden St.—Schenectady—Francis M. Line­han, '45, 1257 Glenwood Boulevard.— Syracuse—iohn E. McAuliffe, '39, 127 Austin Avenue.—Troy—Dr. Daniel P. Mahoncy, '37, 301 5th Avenue.—Utica —Vincent T. Fletcher, '32, 1640 Clementian Street. 

OHIO 

^A-ron—Thomas J. Botzum, '49, 121 Avondale Drive.—Ashtabula—John E. LjTich, '39, 4229 Birchwood.—CanioH —Maurice F. Zink, Jr., '48, 1106 22nd Street, N. VV. — Cincinnati — Richard 
W. Scallan, '21, 3612 Victoria Lane.— Cleveland—^Karl E. Marterstcck, '29, 1630 Williamson Building. Co-Chair­man—John J. Reidy, '27, 1050 Union Commerce Bldg. — Columbus — John 
C. Fontana, '28, Fontana & Ward, 50 
W. Broad St.—Day/on—W. Edmund Shea, '23, 2515 Shafor Blvd.—E/yn'a— Richard S. Horan, '24, Lorain County Bank Building.—Hamilton—W. Boyce Fischer, '31, c/o Fischer Hardware & Supply Company; 20 N. Third Street. 
—Portsmouth—Jerome M. Wiggins, '31, 2206 Waller m\\.—Sanduskyh~ Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 1101 W. Jefferson Street.—Springfield—Daniel 
R. Shouvlin, Jr., '42, 215 S. Clairmont Avenue.—Toledo—^F. John Solon, Jr., 
•38,
 2727 Merrimac Boulevard.—War­ren—Paul A. Guamieri, '36, 179 Bon­nie Brae, N.E.—Youngstown—Charles 

B.
 Cushwa, Jr.,'31, Commercial Shear­ing & Stamping Company. 


OKLAHOAAA 

Oklahoma City—J. Haskell Askew, '31, 105 N.E. 27th.—riitya—Peter J. McMahon, '45, 1841 E. 27th Street. 
OREGON 

Porf/a«(f—Phil Berthiaume, '28, 817 Corbett Building. 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Allentown—^Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, 3004 Turner Street.—Altoona—Primo 
V. Lusardi, '50,521 Pine Street, Holli­daysburg, Penna.—Bradford—^William 
P. McVay, '40, 94 Main Street.— Butler—^\Villiam J. Rockenstein, '34, 305 N. McKean Street.—DuBois— Regis J. Maloney,'29, DuBois Brewing. —Erie—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 705 Ariel Building.—Harrisburg—^Louis C. O'Brien, '44, 2237 Adrian Street.— Johnstown—Eugene L. Cavanaugh, '33, 114 Erie Street.—ie/iig/i/on— George A. Schwartz, '45, 163 South First Street.—Monongahela Valley— Adolph V. Capano, '26, 733 McKean Avenue; Donora, Penna.—New Castle —Herman W. Green, '36, First Nation­al Bank Building.—Oi7 City—William 
K. Bayer, Jr., '36, 951 West First St. —Philadelphia—John P. Dempsey, '49, 2028 S. 57th Stieet.—Pittsburgh —Laurence R. Smith, '33, 1003 Park Bldg. —Po(to/He-John B. McGurl, '37, Chronicle Building.—Reading-Thomas P. Wolff, '51, Gilbert Assb­ciates, 412 Washington St.—Scranton —John A. Kramer, '45, 121 Chestnut Street; Dunmore, Pa.—Sharon—James 
A. Biggins, M.D., '31, 420 N. Waliiut St., Sharpsville.—St. Mary's—^William 
P. Gies, '40, Maurus St.—Titusville— Matthew J. Bajorek, '45, 422 N. Brown St.—Wilkes-Barre—Thomas M. Hig­gins, '34, 262 S. River St.—Williams­port—PeteT P. Somerville, '29, R. D. No. 3; Muncy. 

RHODE ISIANO 

Providence—George W. Ferrick, '41, Manager, New York Life Iii.surance Co., 469 Angell Street. 

SOUTH DAKOTA 

Sioux Falls—Thomas M. Reardon, '36, Dakota Iron Store. 

TENNESSEE 

Chattanooga—]ohn W. Terrell, '39, 1104 McCallie Avenue.—Memphis— Lawrence K. Thompson, Jr., '39, 1804 E.\-change Bldg.—Nashville—J. Thom­as Traughber, '28, Glenn Building, Clarks%'ille, Tennessee. 

TEXAS 

Beaumont—Port Arthur—Richard T. Braun, '14, 3901 Fourth Street, Port Arthur, Texas.—Dallas—Thomas E. Braniff, Braniff International Airways. Co-chairman—Walter L. Fleming, Jr., '40, Fleming & Sons, Inc., P. O. Box 1291.—S P(uo—Richard S. Smith, '37, 4311 Hastings St.—Fort W^rth— 
•J.
 Lee Johnson, III, '49, 1209 Wash­ington Terrace.—Houston—^Lawrence 

J.
 Kelley, '42, 811 City National Bank Building.—San Antonio—^William V. Dielmann, Jr., '25, 433 Beveriy Drive. 



VIRGINIA 

Richmond—Francis J. Stumpf, '44, 17 Cherokee Road. 

WASHINGTON 

5ea«;e—John F. Boespflug, '33, 1912­4th Avenue, South.—Tacoma—Joseph 
H. Manley, '30, 916 North K Street. 

WEST VIRGINIA 

Charleston—Robert E. Shoemaker, '40, 1527 Hampton Road.—Wheeling —George J. Sargus, '28, No. 1 Oak Pk. 

WISCONSIN 

LaCrosse—^August M. Grams, '28, 121 S. 13th St.—Ma&on—John E. Tobin, '34, 2826 Van Hise Avenue. Marinette—^Frank J. Lauerman, Jr., '19, 713 Marinette Ave.—Milwaukee —Charles M. Bransfield, '41, 6209 N. Berkeley.—Racine—James M. Hamil­ton, '35, President, The Greene Mfg. Company, 1028 Douglas Avenue.— Rhinelander—Donald C. O'Melia, '39, O'Melia & Kaye, O'Melia Building. 
Noirt Dame Alumitm, Jan.-Feb., 1954 




RECENT GRADS COMMITTEE CONDUCTS SURVEY of 1946-51 CLASSES 
Reflects Opinions on Campus Life and 
Notre Dame's recent graduates — 1946 through 1951—prized the fellow­ship of their undergraduate days most of all, while at N.D.^ and also were im­pressed by the qualit)' of the education they received at Notre Dame. This was revealed in a survey undertaken during the year by a committee of young alumni. 
The committee was headed by Char­les F. Russ,, '49,. and included William Anhutj Thomas Carroll and George Murphy, all of the '51 class; Edward Snyder, '50; and John P. 'Walker, '49. 
This group was appointed last. Spring by the Alumni Association Board of Directors at the urging of recent grads. Its purpose was to ex­amine the attitude and opinions of the graduates of the last five years and 
Industry-College Execs Attend First Conference The First Industry-College Confer­ence, held in White Sulphur Springs, 
W. 'Va., featured nationally-known business and education executives as speakers and it was agreed by those in attendance that a "mutuality of in­terests" existed between the two groups. 
Notre Dame was represented by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesbuigh, C.S.C., president, who ser\'ed as chairman during one of the discussion periods. According to Ben Moreell, Board Chairman of Jones and Laughlin Steel Corp., the consensus at the confer­ence's end was that both groups "reached a basis for understanding and achieved an eagerness to learn about the other's problems." 
In all there were 38 leaders of edu­cation, most of them college presidents. 

to give special emphasis to the opera­tion and general effectiveness of the local alumni clubs. 
In addition to fellowship and the cultural environment on campus, young alumni were 'grateful for Notre Dame's religious atmosphere'. Tabu­lations show that the group was highly critical of several facets of student life—primarily the disciplinary system and the food. But it seems that their criticism was meant to be constructive because almost unanimously they stated that they would encourage their sons to attend the University. 
Ninety-two per cent said their opin­ion of Notre Dame had changed for the better or had remained unchanged. There were many recommendations for altering the curriculum, improving 

Alumni Clubs 
\ 

student - faculty relations, providing 
more and better social life (including 
St Mar)''s), giving Notre Dame less of' 
a football reputation, raising the stand­
ards of admission, expanding the 
placement service and revising the 
approach to fund-raising. 
The sur\'ey gave a vote of confi­

dence to alumni publications. Eighty-
nine per cent of young graduates read 
class notes in the ALUMNUS maga­
zine while 92% read the NOTRE 
DAME magazine. 
It was indicated in the survey that 

a closer bond of cooperation should 
exist between local alumni clubs and 
present students. In some cities the 
price of affairs has discouraged many 
young alumni from participation in 
(continued on page 13) 

and 31 industry executives, many of them heads of corporations, present at the meeting. In addition to Father Hesburgh the other chairmen in­cluded: Douglas McGregor, president of Antioch College; WiUiam Given, president of the American Brake Shoe Co., New York; R. C. Hood, president of Ansul Chemical Co., Marinette, Wis.; and Paul H. Sheats of the Adult Education Association of the United States, Los Angeles. 
Father Hesburgh attended the Industry-College Conference, White Sulphur Springs, W. Va. Left to right: WiUiam Given, Jr.; Father Hesburgh; and CarroU V. Newsom. 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj Jaii.-Feb., 1954 
Who's Who in America, 1952-53 edition, lists 135 Notre Dame alumni according to a survey by the A. N. Marquis Co., publisher. The Notre Dame representation includes promi­nent alumni in occupations and fields of endeavor. The survey revealed that Notre Dame is one of the first two Catholic colleges in the total number of listings. 

l" Included in the volume are biog­/raphies on 27 priests of the Congrega-I tion of Holy Cross. This group is f composed of the Most Rev. John F. f O'Hara, C.S.C, former president of 
• the University and now Archbishop of Philadelphia; the Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole,' C.S.C, the Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C, provincial, Indiana Province of the Priests, Congregation of Holy Cross; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame; the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, former University President and now Director of the Notre Dame Foundation: Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, Academic Affairs \ace-pres.; and Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C, Student Affairs vice-president. 
Clergy-Faculty at Notre Dame 
Also the following priests who are faculty members at Notre Dame: Rev. Henry J. Bolger, C.S.C; Rev. Eugene 
P. Burke, C.S.C; Rev. Frank Cava­naugh, C.S.C; Rev. \Vm. Cunning­ham, CS.C; Rev. H. G. Glueckert, C.S.C; Rev. Cornelius J. Hagerty, CS.C; Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, C.S.C; Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C; Rev. William H. Molony, CS.C; Rev. Raymond 'W. Murray, C.S.C; Rev. William H. Robinson, C.S.C; and Rev. Robert J. Sheehan, C.S.C. 
Other priests are: Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, president of Stonehill College; Rev.Michael J.Early, C.S.C; Rev. Joseph S. McGrath, C.S.C; Rev. Charles C Miltner, C.S.C, and Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C, of the University of Portland; Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C, chaplain, St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, Ind.; Rev. Patrick J. Peyton, C.S.C, of the 'Family Rosary'; and Rev. Matthew A. Schumacher, C.S.C, St. Mar)''s Col­lege. 
Distinguished lay alumni include: Frank C 'Walker, former postmaster-general and currently a University trustee; Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune Sports Editor; Albert Pick, president 




'Who's Who' Edition Lists 135 Notre Dame Ahimni 
N.D. Is Leader in Catholic College Group 
of Pick Hotels, Inc.; James R. Record, Ft. Worth, Te.x., pubUsher; Frank J. Starzel, general manager of the Asso­dated Press; Terence B. Cosgrove, University trustee; former Governor 

FR/\NK C. WALKER 
of Michigan, Harry F. Kelly; AValter 
W. "Red" Smith, sports columnist; Clyde A. Lewis, fonner head of the VFW; Raymond J. Kelly, former national commander American Le­gion; Darrel Austin, artist. 
Trustees Represented in Group 
Also, John A. Cassidy, attorney; Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., University trus­tee and Newark, N. J. businessman; John S. McKieman, Lt.-Gov. of Rhode Island; Don C Miller, attorney, member of 'Four Horsemen' backfield; 
J. P. McEvoy, \vriter; Robert L. Chase, editor; William E. Cotter, at­attomey, director of philanthropic organizations; Joseph F. Deeb, former 
U. S. District Attorney, Michigan; Joseph P. Evans, M.D., professor, Univ. of Cincinnati; Charles Fahy, judge; Neil C Hurley, Jr., manu-• facturer; B\Ton V. Kanaley, lawyer, Universit)' trustee; Ambrose O'Con­nell, judge; Ray T. Miller, former Cleveland mayor. 
Walter Trohan, newspaperman: Ed­

ward Tighe Woods, former Rent Ex­peditor; Sherwood Dixon, former Lt.­Gov., 111.; Allen W. Fritzsche, indus­tralist; Thomas H. Beacom, U. trustee, bank exec; George N. Beamer, la\vyer; James Landi, manufacturer; John P. Murphy. U. trustee, businessman; Harry A. Stuhldreher, public relations, member of 'Four Horsemen' backfield; George N. Shuster, educator; Romeo 
M. E. WALTER 

P. AUard, dean, Loyola, L. A.; Ed­ward N. Anderson, Holy Cross College football coach; Karl M. Amdt, pro­fessor; Lester L. Bowles, M.D.; Harold 
P. Burke, U. S. dist. judge; Francis R. Cawley, govt, specialist; P. DiCiorgio, corporation pres. 
Thomas A. J. Dockweiler, lawyer; Oscar Dor\vin, attorney; Joseph E. Duffey, business exec; Thomas J. Ess, editor; 'Michael L. Fansler, attorney; 
C L. Farris, govt, official; W. P. Feeley, business exec; Harry W. Plan­ner)', news reporter and analyst; Sister Mar)' P. Garvey, pres., Mercy College; 
(continued on page 14) 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, Jan.^Fgb., 1954 




Frank Holahan Does Great Foundation Job As District Governor 
Solicits Gifts From 60 N.D. Friends in 1953 
In the little town of Hollidaysburg nestling amid the Allegheny Moun­tains of Western Pennsylvania, a mem­ber of the 1935 Class decided that he should see what could be done to ad­vance the efforts of the Notre Dame Foundation. This was almost two years ago—in early 1952. As he says, it required more than fifteen years for him to realize that he could do some­thing in addition to his modest, though regular, contributions to the University. 
So J. Frank Holahan, valedictorian of '35 with a 94.6% average in Com­merce, put his shoulder to the Foun­dation grindstone. The results have been amazing. Records indicate that during 1953, the first full year he spent some of his "spare time" mak­ing Foundation contacts, his solicita­tions resulted in $5,000 from donors whose contributions had totaled less than $400 in the preceding year. Sixty of Frank's non-alumni "pros­pects," who had incidentally contrib­uted nothing prior to his first contact with them, gave $3,000 to the Foun­dation this past year. The statistics are even more phenomenal when compared with 37 non-alumni gifts from the entire State of Pennsyl­vania in 1952. 
Encouragement from Mr. Walker 
Holahan became enthused about the Foundation in a conversation witli Mr. Frank C. Walker, '09, President of Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trustees and former National Chairman of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. Mr. Walker told Frank of the success he had had in asking prospective donors to send him their checks for forwarding to the campus. Frank found that by utilizing this plan he can keep an up-to-date "tickler" on persons who have prom­ised to send donations. He says that many persons share his own propen­
sity to forget about intended dona­
tions and follow-up contacts are oc­
casionally neccssar)' and generally 
productive. 
Currently Frank is District Gov­ernor for Central Pennsylvania with supervision over a 23-county area. Prior to being appointed by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Frank had ser\'ed as Citj' Chairman and as President of the ND Alumni Club of Central Pennsylvania. 
In the stor}' on Governor Joe Far­rell, '15, November-December, 1953, ALUMNUS, it was stated that "until last year Joe had done practically a one-man job of stimulating participa­tion in the Annual Alumni Funds." Frank is one of the primary reasons why Joe no longer has a "one-man job." 
Alumni Participation 75 % 
AVhile directing the activities of his alumni club, participation for the area increased to 75%—the highest in Pennsylvania and one of the highest in the entire country. In apprecia­tion of Frank's great work as Club President, he was presented the"Man­of-the-Year" award on Universal No­tre Dame Night in 1953. 
Holahan's efforts as District Gov­ernor have been concentrated on po­tential contributors among non-alum­ni. He does not consider someone a prospect imless an interest in Notre Dame already exists either from being a follower of Fighting Irish athletes, or one who appreciates the tremen­dous part Notre Dame plays in the Catholic higher educational field, or from other factors. 
More than one-half of the non-alumni he has approached have'con­tributed and most of these have agreed, often at their own suggestion. 
J. FRANK HOLAHAN 

that they would give similar amounts annually. 'Without any doubt this is one of the outstanding percentages of individual fund-raising whether it be in the college ranks or otherwise. 
Foundation Work Done In 'Spare Time' 
Frank's work for the Foundation has to be done in his "spare time." He is employed as a bank examiner for the Comptroller of the Currency and official duties require 60 hours per week. After almost nineteen years on the same job Holahan insists that he is not a salesman and is a neophyte at soliciting funds for any cause. (Editor's note: -The writer will take exception to this statement even if it docs appear in print. JC) 
Many persons are interested in No­tre Dame and would like to contrib­ute to the Foundation but they lack knowledge thereof or else they may be just too busy to think of sending in a .donation unless approached per­sonally, according to Holahan's the-or>'. Several non-alumni have empha­sized that they were "glad to find 

12 Noire Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 195-t 
such a worthy place to put some of their earnings ..." v ' 
As part of his work, Frank has dis­covered that many affluent alumni had given little or nothing to the Foundation but would make substan­tial annual gifts if personally ap­proached. One example was an alumnus who had graduated many years ago but had never participated in alumni funds. After a bit of en­couragement, Frank succeeded in re­activating his interest which led to a gift of $150 for the University. An­other gave $200 even though his prior annual contributions were $10. 
Several alumni who have been giv­ing $10, $20, $25 regulariy over the years have remarked that those orig­inal amounts loomed large in family budgets a decade ago but could be increased with present-day incomes by $50 or $100. Although only 16 alumni in Pennsylvania contributed $100 in 1952, Holahan firmly believes that there should be at least 100 per­sons in this category. 
Frank works closely with his city chairmen and is confident that a fol­low-up by them in the future will re­tain most, if not all, of the '53 con­tributors he has personally solicited. 

Indoctrinates With ND Mag 
He makes good use of the NOTRE DAME magazine, copies of which he gives to prospects so that they may become fully cognizant of the Notre Dame story. Holahan modestly insists that he has no magic money-raising formula but rather, on the other hand, he has the "easiest product in the world to sell." 
Until recent years, Frank admits he did not fully appreciate the financial plight of most private educational in­stitutions. For instance, at Notre Dame the student actually pays only-about 70% of his tuition. The re­maining 30% has to be defrayed by the University through benefactions from alumni, non-alumni friends, corpora­tions and foundations. It is Frank's own belief that alumni should strive to repay this obligation. 
In addition to obtaining financial support for the University, Holahan has also been successful in getting new students from the HolUdaysburg vicinity to enroll at the University. 
Frank is convinced that there are 


Recent Grad Survey 

many other alumni who have taken 
(continued from page 10) 

little or no part, financially or other­wise, in the Foundation but who can club programs and the survey also aid in this essential phase of "Opera­suggests that functions should be more tion Notre Dame." 
interesting. Frank and his lovely wife, Louise, Notre Dame's football fame was not have two potential candidates for the main attraction for enticing them Coach Leahy, Johnny 11, and Billy 7. to the Golden Dome campus, so said They are one of the most rabid fam­recent graduates. Only 8% of the ily groups ever to follow the Fighting group placed football as the primary Irish football squad. For 17 seasons reason for coming to Notre Dame. the Holahans have been attending 
Although Lou Buckley's "Life and NT) games and in recent years the Opinions of the 1928 Class" (see boys have accompanied them to New ALUJvINUS, Nov-Dec. 1953) covered Orleans, New York City, Cleveland, a greater variety of subjects, his report Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Baltimore and the young alumni survey parallel­and South Bend. 

ed each other on a number of points. 
Even though it means being away Notre Dame's religious influence and from his family and putting in extra spirit of fellowship were also hsted as hours, Frank is determined to do all top contribution to the lives of '28 that he can in assisting Notre Dame men while the 'nature and extent of to provide the best in Catholic higher discipline' was one of their chief education—^for Johnny and Billy, and complaints. thousands of other privileged young­The Recent Graduates Committee sters who will some day attend classes survey results were presented to the 
on the campus of Our Lady's Uni­Alumni Board of Directors at their versity.—J.N.C. October meeting. 



STUDENTS INSURANCE PLAN 
An accident and sickness insurance plan, one of the most com­prehensive of its type in the nation, has been offered to Notre Dame students by the Continental Casualty Company of Chicago, III. Over 1400 underclassmen have voluntarily enrolled in the plan which will give additional protection to those services provided by the University Infirmary. Students also receive coverage during vacation periods and other times when infirmary facilities are unavailable to them. 
The Notre Dame plan costs $21 for a full twelve month rate but has been prorated for entrants taking advantage of its coverage in October and at the beginning of the second semester this year. All coverage now effective will extend until September 14, 1954, at which time new enrollments will start for incoming freshmen and others. All members of the student body are eligible for the plan. 
Accident benefits of the student health plan are completely un­allocated and limited only by the maximum amount payable of $750 per accident. Sickness benefits are payable up to $500 based on a set schedule. These latter benefits include hospital room and board, surgeon and special nurses' fees, doctors calls and ambulance service. 
The Student Senate has chosen John C. O'Meara, Hillsdale, Mich., a Junior in the College of Arts and Letters, to administer the plan on campus. His function is to process and forward claims to the Chicago office, answer questions of parents and students on the subject, and generally promote interest in the plan. O'Meara has an office in the new loFortune Student Center. 
University officials gave thoughtful consideration to the present Student Health Plan before accepting it as a part of the school's program. The plan is designed to be of maximum value to students and parents alike. Its initial success is evident in that 35% of the current student body are already covered by its benefits. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jatt,-Feb,, 1954 

Who's Who 
(continued from page 11) 

Frank B. Goodman, newspaper editor; Clinton R. Gutermuth, conservationist, naturalist; George W. Holmes, banker; Clarence B. Jennett, banker; Henr>' G. Johnson, corporation lawj'er: John E. Kenney, business exec; James G. Mackey, la\v)'er. 
AVilliam E. Mahin, research admin­istrator; John E. Martin, judge; Em­mett A. McCabe, business exec; Roger 
I. McDonough, judge: ^Villiam E. Miller, congressman, N. Y.; Robert H. Morse, Jr., manufacturer; Frederick E. Neef, surgeon: Edward M. O'Connor, govt, official; Joseph P. O'Hara, con­gressman, Minn.; William H. Powers, educator; Basil Ranch, professor; Charles M. Reagan, exec. Paramount Pictures; John F. Robinson, educator; Edward A. Rumely, public relations exec: Re\Tiolds C. Seitz, Law dean, Marquette. 
John R. Sheriff, Dean, Loyola, Chi­cago; J. \V. Stack, educator; Joseph 
H. Thompson, business exec; Stanley 
D. Tylman, professor of dentistry; Louis F. Thompson, govt official; 
M. E. Walter, Houston Chronicle edi­tor; Clifford Ward, news columnist; Paul M. AVood, M.D.; Henr)- H. Barn-hart, manufacturing exec; Linus C. Glotzbach, Northwest Airlines exec; AValter H. Johnson, Jr., American Air­lines exec; Thomas H. King, educa­tor; Brian S. Odem, la\vyer; and John 
P. Wagner, buisness executive. 
Lay facult)' alumni at Notre Dame include: Paul C. Bartholomew, Cecil Birder, Andrew J. Boyle, Jose A. Cap­aro (now retired), Jose G. Corona, Edward A. Coomes, Gilbert J. Coty, Norbert Engels, Louis Hasley, Geotg;e 
F. Hennion, Clarence "Jake" Kline, Walter M. Langford, Coach Frank Leahy, Francis J. O'Malley, Ronald 
E. Rich, John H. Sheehan, Walter L. Shilts, Thomas J. Stritch, Judge Luther M. Swygert, Richard R. Vogt, James A. Withey and James A. Reyniers. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, 3an.-Feb., 1954 
MARIAN YEAR PILGRIMAGE 
The Canadian Federation of 
Newman Clubs is sponsoring a 
Marian Year Pilgrimage fo Europe 
from June 25-Aug. 6, 1954. Full 
particulars may be obtained by 
contacting: James J. Lynch, direc­
tor, World Educational Travel, 1457 
Broadway, New York 36, N. Y. 


SILVER JUBILEE of HOLY CROSS MEN 

Four Holy Cross missionaries in Dacca, India, recently celebrated their Silver Jubilee in the Congregation with a Solemn Pontifical High Mass and special presentation program. His Grace, the Most Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., Archbishop of Dacca, Rev. John Kane, C.S.C, Rev. Dom­inic D'Rozario G.S.C., and Brother Jude Costello, C.S.C, all were honored on this occasion. 


BOOK REVIEW: 

The Presence of Mary by Sister M. Agnese 

THE PRESENCE OF MARY (Fides Publishing Co. $L50) by Sister M. Agnese, Sisters of Divine Providence. This book, published in 1949, has a new significance in this Marian Year. It is a translation from the French ori^nal of a French Jesuit, Father Francis Charmot. 
It treats of Mary's role in the lay apostolate, very vital in this year of Marian emphasis. It pictures her in her role as Queen in the fight against evil, never more significant than now. And it treats of Mary as the teacher who forms the necessar)' interior life for the apostolate. 
Sister Agnese is a most capable trans­lator, and those privileged to know her during her years in the summer sessions at Notre Dame, know that her contribution to this work is far more than its translation.—•/. E. A. 
Members of the '29 class in Pakistan receive a visit from the Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Left to right: Rev. Walter R. Marks, CS.C, Rev. Joseph F. Voorde, C.S.C., Father O'Toole, Rev. John J. Harrington, CS.C, and Rev. Charles J. Young, CS.C. 

SHANNON and MATZ '54 CO-CAPTAINS 

Dan Shannon and Paul Matz, both juniors from Chicago, who attended Mount Carmel High School together in the Windy City, and who spent the past football season at Notre Dame battling each other for the starting left end job, will co-captain the 1954 Fighting Irish football team. 
Both had been primarily defensive men before the 1953 season. Shannon as linebacker and Matz as an end. During the past campaign. Shannon caught seven passes for 138 yards, two for touchdowns. The two touch­downs brought about the 14-14 tie with Iowa in the eighth game of the season. Matz caught five passes for 61 yards. Shannon is an accounting major. Matz is majoring in aero­nautical engineering. 

Leahy's Winning Record Tops .888 Percentage 

After the 1953 football season, which saw Notre Dame win nine, lose none, and tie one, Frank Leahy, coach of the Irish team for eleven years, now has a record of 87 vic­tories, 11 defeats and nine ties. This is a winning percentage of .888 ex­clusive of ties. 
Leahy also won 20 games and lost two in two years as coach of Boston College. Thus, his all-time coaching record is now 107 victories, 13 de­feats, and nine ties. This is a win­ning percentage of .892. 
During his tenure at Notre Dame, Leahy has won four national cham­pionships, in 1943, 1946, 1947 and 1949. 
The Irish mentor has had six un­defeated seasons at Notre Dame, 1941, 1946, 1947, 1948, 1949 and 1953. 

1954 Football Schedule Features 5 Home Games 

Sept. 25 Texas at NO Oct. 2 Purdue at NO Oct. 9 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Oct. 16 Michigan State at N D Oct. 23 Open date Oct. 30 Navy at Baltimore Nov. 6 Pennsylvania at Phila­
delphia Nov. 13 North Carolina at ND Nov. 20 Iowa at Iowa City Nov. 27 So. California at ND Dec. 4 So. Methodist at Dallas 
Seven Seniors Play In Post-Season Grid Games 

Seven senior members of the imde­feated Notre Dame football team played in post-season games, three for the East, in the East-^Vest game in San Francisco, and four for the North, in the North-South game in Miami. Johnny Lattner, right half, Neil Worden, fullback, and Art Hunter, right tackle, were at San Francisco. Captain Don Penza, right end, Menil Mavraides, right guard, Jim Schrader, center, and Tom Mc-Hugh, fullback, appeared in Miami. 

1953 Recapitulation 
N D 28 Oklahoma 21 N D 37 Purdue 7 N D 23 Pittsburgh 14 ND 27 Georgia Tech 14 ND 38 Navy 7 ND 28 Pennsylvania 20 ND 34 North Carolina 14 N D 14 Iowa 14 ND 48 Southern California 14 ND 40 Southern Methodist 14 
Record: Won nine, lost none. tied one 

Dan Shannon grabs the tying touchdo»-n pass against Iowa. Final score: 14-14. 
Notre Dame AtuninuSt Jan.-Feb., 1954 

Capt. Don Penza, E Armando Galardo, HB Fred Mansialardi, E John Latlncr, HB 

0/ i953 ^aoUaU S<^u4id 
Bob Kigali, HB Tom McHugh, FB 
Art Hunter, T Rocknc Morrisscy, HB Art Nowack, C Joe Bush, T 
. m^. 

Jim Schrader, C Bob Martin, QB Neil Worden, FB Mcnil Mavraidcs, G 16 Xotre Dame Alumnul, Jan.-Feb,, 1954 
"Eh Cunipari'' (popular song — or did you know) rendered by (left to right) Jackie Lee, Pat Bisceglia, Frank Varrichione and Menil Mavraides at St. Joe Valley's football banquet for team. Sitting are .-Vrch Ward, '23, and Frank Leahy. 
The ND band, under the direction of Robert F. O'Brien, pre­
sented an outstanding show each home game and in Philadelphia. 
This year's unit is one of the best nuisical units ever to repre­
sent the 
Worden Sets N.D. Record With 29 TD's in 3 Years 

Final statistical honors for the 1953 season \vcrc fairly well divided among the four members of the starting Notre Dame backficid. Neil \Vorden, senior fullback, gained the most yards and scored the most points. Johnny Lattner, senior right half, was first in kickofr returns. Joe Heap, junior left half, paced the team in passes re­
 Fighting Irish 
ceived and punt returns, and Ralph Gugliclmi, junior quarterback, was the top man in passing and passes intercepted. 
Worden made 11 touchdowns to lead the team for the tliird straight year and ran iiis three-year total to 29 touclidowns, a new Notre Dame record. The Milwaukee lad also was first in rushing on the basis of 859 yards gained in 145 carries for an average of 5.9 yards. \Vorden was fifth in the country- among collegiate rushers. 
ALL-OPPONENT TEAM 
Oklahoma and Pittsburgh domi­nated the 1953 Notre Dame All-Op­ponent football team. Three Panthers and three Sooners were on the 12­man club, a 12-man team being nec­essary' because of a tie for the second end position. 
At the time of voting for the all-opponent team, the Irish players also selected the "best team played." In this balloting, Oklahoma edged Iowa for the honor. 
Seven schools were represented on the .411-Opponent team. 
Ends: Dick Dcitrick, Pittsburgh: Carl .'Mlison, Oklahoma, and Tom Nickoloff, us e (tied for second end position). Tackles: Eldred Kraemer, Pittsburgh: Jack Shanafelt, Pennsyl­vania. Guards: J. D. Roberts, Okla­homa: Tom Bettis, Purdue. Center: Lany Morris, Georgia Tech. Quarter­back: Ed Gramigna, Pennsylvania. Backs: Jack Ging, Oklahoma; Bobby Epps, Pittsburgh; George Broeder, Iowa. 
John Lattner, senior halfback, re­ceived the following honors as the outstanding college football player irt the United States: Heisman trophy. Maxwell trophy, \Vashington (D.C.) Touchdown Club award, Cleveland Touchdown Club award and the De­troit Quarterback Club award. 
To Coach Frank Leahy, the Assistant Coaches and all members of the Football Team: Gentlemen: 
I believe I expess the opinion and desires of the Alumni of Notre Dame when, on' behalf of the Asso­ciation, I offer you congratulatio.ns on the victorious completion of one of the finest seasons in Notre Dame football history. The display of the will to win when needed seemed to exceed that always expected of Notre Dame teams. 
You should be as proud of your accomplishments as we are proud of you. 
Sincerely, JOHN H. NEESON, JR., President, Alumni Assoc, 
i^otre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Ftb., 1954 
Akron 
Sparked by President STEVE WOZNUK, '28, the Rubber City group has been kept plenty busy of late. 
FRANK STEELE, *25, and his committee sub­stantially increased the club's Scholarship Fund by means of a successful ticket raffle. ED HIN­DERSCHEIB, '30, was the lucky winner of four 50-yard line tickets to the Southern Methodist game, plus expenses. 
MURRAY POWERS, '23, brought out a splen­did attendance of over fift>* for the annual cor­porate communion at St. Bernard's Church on Sunday, December 6lh. Following 8 o'lJock Mass, the club enjoyed an excellent breakfast at the new lacomini Restaurant. Guests included Father Edward A. Wolf, Administrator of St. Bernard's; Brother Noel, C.S.C., principal of Akron's new Hoban High School; Slayor-clect Leo Berg; Coach Eddie Wentz of Akron St. Vincent's High; M. G. "Jerr>'" O'Ncil, executive assistant to the presi­dent of the General Tire & Rubber Company; and AIl-American Art Hunter and his father Albert D. Hunter, xvho drove Art all niglit from Notre Dame so he could be with us. 
—GLENN SMITH 

Aurora 
Tlie Scliolarship Fund of the Aurora Club is $500 richer, thanks to tlic successful raffle of four Georgia Tcch-Notre Dame tickets in October. Prcxy DICK REEDY, '44, is laying final plans for a dinner dance sometime around the first of February for club members and their guests. 
'—JOHN J. RILEY, Sec'y. 

Baltimore 
FEL K MELODY, '23, was chairman of the sixteenth annual Notre Dame Club of Baltimore Communion Breakfast. . . . HAL AMLLIAMS, *38, diief researcher, author and editor of recent Sun Magazine article depicting development of the Chesapeake Bay. . . . GIL PRENDERGAST, *30, a contributor, telling wliat the Bay means to the amateur fisherman. . . . FRANKLYN HOCH­REITER, '35, chief sleuth in Vagabond Players* amateur production of duller "The Late Edwina Black," proceeds of which go to the Notre Dame Foundation. . . . BOBBY \\7LLIAMS, '51, still at Bainbridgc, gained aclucvcment award as out­standing "boot" in his class. .. . \lCTOR WOJCIHOVSKI, '37, coaclicd Mount St. Joseph's fooUiall team to an undefeated season, his play­ers gaining six All-Catholic team berths. 
—J. MURRAY WIEMAN 

Boston 
JOHN V. MOR.\N, '3D, and his Notre Dame associates—90 strong—traveflcd \na the New York, New Haven and Hartford to Philadelphia to see the exciting Penns>'U-ania game. Among the alumni members making the trip were JOSEPH O'REILLY, '48, JOHN BRESNAHAN, '45, JOHN 
F. SAUNDERS, *3I, and JOHN T. BURKE, *29. 
The Honorable John B. Hyncs, mayor of the cit>* of Boston, also made the trip. The mayor's eldest boy, John, graduated from Notre Dame in 1952. Another son enrolled at Notre Dame this past September. Among those whom the group met in Philadelphia w*cre our cx-presidcnt and his beautiful wife, Clalrc. Those lucky people in Rochester, N. Y., got botli in the same package. 
REV. FRANCIS J. BOLAND, C.S.C., '18, President of StonehlU College, sends word that a new shrine to the Immaculate Conception was dedicated at the college on Sunday, December 6th. 
FRANKLIN H. STUART, '43, called the other night to say that he is back in Boston after an absence of three years. His new address is 11 Beachwood Terrace, AVellesley Hills. Frank is now in the steel business. 
DR. ROBERT E. DONOVAN, M.D., class of '33, sends word that his nc^v address is 110 Gray Street, Arlington 74, Mass. We wish Bob all the luck in the world in his new home. 
The members of the Boston Club were deeply sorry to hear of the death of Lt. Robert Hcrliliy, '52, killed in Korea on July 26. Those of us who knew Bob certainly will miss him. 
DR. CHRISTOPHER LANDRY, M.D., has moved into the Boston area. His address is 61 Richfield Road, Arlington. 

Buffalo 
A record crowd attended the annual cocktail partj* of the Alumni Club of Buffalo held on Friday, November 27, at the Hotel Sheraton. 
December 6th was the date for our Com­munion Breakfast. Mass at the New Cathedral Chapel was followed by breakfast at the Hotel Sheraton with Rev. Francis Growney as speaker. DICK THOEN, '39, was chairman of the affair. This is a family affair at which many of tlie future halfbacks make their annual appearance. 
Big event of the year was the Christmas Dance on Monday, December 28th, in the Hotel Statlcr ballroom. The Alumni, Alum-^Vivcs, and Campus Club joined forces to make it a huge success. Profits arc earmarked for the Foundation Fund. Co-chairmen were Mr. and Mrs. PAUL J. ALL­WEIN, '49, with Mr. and Mrs. JAMES T. CLAUSS, class of '44, and Mr. and Mrs. FRAN­CIS G. KELLNER, '36, as honorary- chairmen. Committee heads were: ifr. and ^Irs. FRANCIS 
X. BENNETT, JR., '39, Rcsen.ations; Mr. and ^frs. JAMES R. AUSTIN, class of '38, Tickets; Mn and Mrs. ANTHONY C. ROCCO, class of '49, Decorations; Mr. and Mrs. HENRY J. BALLING, '52, Music; and Mr. and Mrs. J. FRANCIS HANSSEL, '31, Publicity-. 
—NiCHOL.\s H. ^^^LLET^ 


Calumet District 
The highlight of the holiday season in the Calumet District occurred on December 29th— the annual Christmas Dinner Dance. Held at the Woodmar Country Club and chairmanned by JACK OGREN, *49, the party reached new peaks of fun and gaiety with good food and good music. 
TOM RADIGAN, '38, is now making plans for our Stag Sports Dinner to be held January 26th. This Smorgasbord dinner will be held at 

JVfEMPHIS—Club members were guests of Alsgr. Kearney for breakfast foUowing the Mass on Universal Communion Stmday. The 
-Mass was offered for-the late Mr.. Galvin Hudson, '15, Alumni Board Director and Foundation Governor. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.^Feb., 1954 

the Marshall House Restaurant in Gary* TERRY BRENNAN, '49, wUl be tht guest of the Club at this event and he will have with him the Football Highlights film. The nomination of offi­cers for the coming year will take place at this meeting together w*ith other business, including a report on the Club's activities for the past year. We expect quite a turnout for this event. 
FATHER MICHAEL FORAN, C^-C . '33, of the Notre Dame Mission Band, thrilled Club members and their wives with his simple elo­quence as he addressed them at the Club's An­nual Communion Breakfast. ^Vfter Father Foran celebrated Mass in St. Joseph's Churcli in Ham­mond he spoke to the Club at the LaSalle Grille, also in that city. He charged those present to show good e:cample to their cliildren by leading good Chrbtian lives, for this is the best way yet devised to defeat juvenile delinquency. 
—ERNIE HUFFMx\N 

Central New York 
The new officers elected for the year are as follows: President: PHILLIP G. KELLEY, '50; Vice-President: T. R. HERBERT, M8; Secretary-Treasurer, PAUL D. LONERGAN, '50. 
The evening before the Lions-Stcelers game here, wc had a dinner and business meeting at the Cavalry Club, an affair attended by FATHER HESBURGH, LEON HART and GUS CIFELLI. 
This fall wc also sponsored a benefit drawing to raise money for a scholarship fund. The win­ner was RICHARD GREENE and his wife who enjoyed an expense paid trip to the Notre Dame-Penn game. 
At present wc are making plans for our Com­munion Breakfast to inaugurate the Marian Year, and are planning a Christmas Dance to be held December 27th. 
Tlie annual communion breakfast was held on December 6lh at Hotel Syracuse, following 8 o'clock ^fass and Communion at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception. Guest speaker at the breakfast was Msgr, Toomcy. Tlie menu included ham and eggs, french fries, double orange juice, assorted hot rolls, marmalade, and plenty of cofTee. 
—PAUL D. LONERGAN, '50 

Central Pennsylvania 
The club's annual Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Breakfast was well-attended this year in­cluding the wives and children. President PRIMO LUSARDI presided and Father Philip O'Donnell, club chaplain, was guest speaker. 
1 Central Illinois 
The Central Illinois Club, including members from Decatur, Jacksonville, Springfield and other central cities, held its "Fall Kick-Off'* meeting the end of October at the home of club presi­dent JAMES COSTA, M8. The program con­sisted of a discussion of future club events, the sho^ving of football movies, and a public rela­tions film. Refreshments were scr\'ed and a pleas­ant evening was had by all. 
-MICHAEL J. BESSO. 

Chicago 
The Notre Dame Glee Club, sponsored by the Scholarship Foundation of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, presented a concert at Xlundclein College Auditorium tlie end of October. Ap­proximately seven hundred grads and their families and friends attended. Nothing but praise could be heard for tlie performance of the boys in the glee club and for Professor Daniel H. Pedtke in particular. 
My leading sentence, you'll note, shows DR. COONEY'S tireless training .. . the who, when, where and why is all in that first line. Now Jet me gii'c you the story. Seven hundred of us . . . old grads . . . grads not so old . . . wives . . . sons and daughters . . . friends .. . all of us sat back and enjoyed some of the finest choral singing any of us had ever heard. And we were proud . . . proud of the Glee Club . . . and proud of the University for wliich it itands. 
COLONEL FR^VNK FEHR, '93 

The dean of American brewers. Colonel Frank Fehr, '93, is now chair­man of the board of directors of the Frank Fehr Brewing Co., Louisville, Ky. Colonel Fehr has the unique dis­tinction of having played center on Notre Dame's first football team. He is very proud of a picture in his office of the 1887 Irish grid eleven and re­called that "our one substitute was absent when the photograph was taken." Although nearing his 84th birthday the Colonel remains active in business and in his many other interests. 
He has been in the bre\ving business for more than 60 years having learned the trade from German masters in Mu­nich and Vienna. His father, Frank Fehr, Sr., started the company in 1872 and managed it until he died in 1891. The Colonel served as president of the brewery until being elevated to his new post as board chairman. 
Not only did he survive the rigors of football and more than a half-cen­tury in the brewing business but Col­onel Fehr also was in the Iroquois Theatre in Chicago when it caught fire on December 30, 1903, and claimed 600 lives. 
The Colonel is married and he and Mrs. Fehr recently moved to 107 Travois Road, Louisville,. Ky. 
.And mind you, the old boy who is writing this piece was a member of that Glee Club just twenty years ago .. . a soloist to boot! I talked with many who attended. They thought" the voices blended well; they liked the numbers on the program and the way they were arranged; they thought the boj-s themselves made a fine ap­pearance. They were right! Then we talked about the soloists. They saw real talent in every one of them. They were right :^ain. 
Then how about Prof. DANIEL PEDTKE? Every last soul I talked with feels he is doing an excellent job. Naturally he is an accom­plished musician but it goes deeper than that. The bo>-s respect him and he cnjo>-s bringing out the beauty in their voices. These young men are doing much to show the country that Notre Dame loves fine singmg. And ho^r do I feel about all this? If I had a son I would be proud indeed if he sang with the Notre Dame Glee Club! 
—GEORGE MENARD, '34 

Cincinnati 
Our ob5er\*ance of Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday took place on December 6. Mem­bers, their wives and families attended the 9 o'clock Mass at the Holy Spirit Chapel of the Fenwick Club and then adjourned across the street to the Fontbonne Club for breakfast and a short speaking program. 
The Eighth Annual Scholarship Ball was held in the Pavilion Caprice of the Netherland Plaza Hotel on Tuesday, December 29, from 9:30 pjn. until 2:00 a.m. A Cocktail Party for patrons took place from 8:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. This dance has developed into one of the social high­lights of the holiday season and we usually have from 800 to 900 people attending. RAY GUD­MENS, *47, was chairman, assisted by JOHN CRONIN, '4B, and DICK A'HE.\RNE, *44, pa­trons; ROIL\N KELLEY and GREY HOLTALUf, class of '48, reservaU'ons; FRED SULLIVAN, *34, publicity; and BARRY SAVAGE, student repre­sentative. 
^Ve are looking forward to the NCA.\ Conven­tion, which ^vilI be held in Cincinnati during the first part of January-. The Club is glWng a party in the Hotel Gibson for the coaches and directors from the University as well as all ND men in the coaching profession who will be at­tending the convention. JOE MORRISSEY, '28, is acting, as chairman of this affair. 
Our excursion to the Notre Dame-Furdue game was its usual success with the scholarship fund being the beneficiar>*. Once again we thank WALLY NIENABER, '37, who did his usual out­standing job as our representative. 
Two of our club members have recently re­ceived recognition in the political field. J.ACK GILLIGx\N, M3, who is a RepubUcan State Rep­resentative, was appointed one of the commis­sioners of Hamilton County. Club members JOE MORRISSEY and BOB McCAFFERTY, '43, took an active part in Jack GilHgan's campaign. 
DICK SaVLLAN, class of '21, is the new Foundation Chairman for the Cincinnati area. He succeeds JACK HEILKER, '30, who has had the job for the past four or five years. A rising vote of thanks ^vas given to Jack at one of our recent monthly meetings for his very fine work as Foundation Chairman. 
—RAY GUDMENS 

Cleveland 
Sunday, December 13th, wzs the date of the Notre Dame Family Communion Breakfast of the Cleveland Club. 9 o'clock Mass at the Cathedral was followed by breakfast at the Hotel AUertoii with REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., execu­tive vice-president of the University, as guest speaker. JIM COLLERAN, '35, v,,-as chainnaa of the e\-ent. 
JOHNNY LfVTTNER is to be honored by the Touchdown Club of Cleveland at its annual Award Banquet this year. He will be the second ND man to be so honored in a period of about five years; a distinction not held by any other school. 
The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland Directory was distributed to club members before Christmas. CLAYT LEROUX, *27, chairmanned the commit-
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 19 
teCt and, along with the committee, has done a really wonderful Job. The dircctor>-j this issue, is not only a roster of the club members, but also a classified listing of the members and a manual, the object of the latter being to com­pile data pertaining to the operation of tlic club. 
Tlic formal Christmas Dance was held at the Carter Hotel's Rainbow Room on December 26. BOB L.ALI.Y, law grad of '53, and R/\Y MILLER, JR., '51, were the co-chairmen. 
PAT a\NNY, '28. Eric Railroad's legal con­siillant. has moved his base of operations from New York back to Cleveland, where he has maintained his home. 
Our capable and industrious president, FLO McCARTH\', '32, is moving to Chicago around the first of the year as assistant to the presi­dent of the C. & O. Railroad and will handle public relations work. ".\ word to Chicago should be sufficient." 
FATHER ED SEWARD, '34, \ice-cIiancellor of the Cleveland Diocese, was cle^'atcd to Monsignor recently. He is being saluted as Ohio's out­standing Notre Dame man in our new directorv* and wc arc pleased that the Vatican agrees with us. 
—VINCENT F. DeCR^\NE, Scc'y. 
Dayton 
About 600 people participated in the annual excursion of the Dayton Club to the ND-Georgia Tccli game. TIic trip was sponsored by tlie club in conjunction with the Knights of Columbus of the Dayton Council, and the proceeds went to the Dayton Alumni Scliolarship Fund. 
St. Joseph Churcli was the site and REV. PHILIP SCHAERF, C^.C , was the cilebrant of the Mass on December 6th held in obser\-ance of 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. 
Father Schaerf also addressed the alumni and 
their friends at the ensuing breakfast. 
Tlic club reports the loss of one of its mem­
bers, JOHN WH.ALEN, '50, who has been trans­
ferred to Milwaukee. 
—HENRY \VORMAN, Sec*y. 
Detroit 
Word from the Detroit area has it that tlie 
October football trips, conducted by LOU MA­
LONE, class of '14, Avcre highly successful. 
One very significant action was taken recently by the directors with the helpful guidance of JIM ARMSTRONG. Steps have been taken to estab­lish an Aid to Needy Students Fund to augment the Fisher Fund when the University feels the need is shown. Tliis program supplants the idea for a scholarship fund, on the theory that it is more important to sec that worthy students al­ready in school are enabled to graduate rather than to try to get students into school. 
The December Communion Breakfast, liandlcd by ED HICKEY, '43. and "LEE" MOORMAN, class of *36, ^s'as a success as always. Breakfast was at the League of Catholic Women and Mass before was held across the street at the Chapel of St. Thercse of the Little Flower. 
Another Detroit Club cxlraraganza was this year's Christmas Dance, with backing from the campus club and local details being handled by LARRY SMITH, '49, and JIM MOTSCHALL, '39. 
Dubuque 
New officers elected at the November meeting of the Dubuque Club are: President, LOUIS RHOMBERG, '31 j Vice-President, REV. WIL­LIAM C. KUNSCH, '37; Secretary-Treasurer, HENRY TRENKLE, '24. 
Highlight of the evening was the showing of the All Stars-Detroit Lions football film. A timely companion film on hunting was also shown. 
The club observed Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday on December 6th at Christ the King Chapel of Loras College. 
—(REV.) WILLIAM C. KUNSCH 

Elkhart 
The Elkhart County Club held its annual Com­munion Breakfast on Sunday, December 6th. 7:30 Mass at St. Thomas Church was foHowcd by breakfast at the Knights of Columbus clubrooms. President ROBERT HOLTZ, '38, held a brief meet­ing before introducing the guest speaker. Father James Elliott, pastor of St. Tliomas Church. Father Elliott spoke on the Marian Year. 
—D. P. W^TCKOSKI, Sec'y.-Treas. 

Fort Wayne 
Two big events within the short space of ten days were held by the Fort Wayne Club at the beginning of December. First on the list was the football roundup smoker on November 30 at the Centli\TC Brewer\'. A short business meeting pre­ceded the showing of a film on the epic ND-Towa game of the preceding week, wliicli w-as narrated by Jim Coslin, Jr., son ol the late sports editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
Then on December 6th came the annual Com­munion Breakfast, with Mass at the Cathedral followed by breakfast at the Kcenan Hotel. Bishop Leo A. Purslcy was the main speaker at the breakfast. 
Grand Rapids 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was licld on December 13 with the REV. JEROME 
J. WILSON", C.S.C., vice-president in cliargc o( Business Affairs at Xotre Dame as the guest speaker. President JOHN FLANAGAN had cliarge of the meeting. 
Green Bay 
A recent meeting was held by tlie club during the visit of GROVER MILLER, Racine, Wis., Stale Foundation Governor, and JOHN CACK­LEY, of the Notre Dame Foundation Office. Both commented on progress being made on campus with regard to the expansion program and research projects. A movie, "Highlights of 1952," was sho(*'n to the group. President ^VIL­LIAM KERWIN presided at the dinner affair. 
Harrisburg 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg held its annual Christmas party Dec. 27 at St. Catherine of Laboure Church. The party was planned and conducted by the Women's Au.\iliar>'. Movies of campus life at Notre Dame were shown. 
The football train to the Penn-ND game at Philadelphia was successful enough to allow the club to contribute $250 to the Foundation. 
Tlie 17th annual communion breakfast was held at Lancaster with 50 members attending. Tlic Rev. .Mphonsus Sobota, T.O.R., of St. Francis College, Lorctta, Pa., spoke on "The Dogma and American Civilization." LOUIS O'BRIEN, president of the Harrisburg club, was toastmaster. HENRY H. REHN, I^ancaster, headed the planning committee. 
JAMES R. GRAHAM, JR., '52, is stationed with the United States Air Force at Elemendorf .^ir Base, Alaska. 
Hiawathoiand 
LUKE TIERNAN, class of '38, and former DE^fVER—^Thc alumni club's annual Christmas Dance was held on Dec 26 and honored president of the Chicago Club, spent an enjoyable evening at ROBERT LeMIRE's, LL.B., *38, home 
Notre Dame students from Colorado. Committee members were (left to right): Tom 
here In Escanaba recently. Incidentally, Bob, in Gargan, chairman; Jerry Shea; Dick Hodges; Jack Rvan: and Tom Tiemey. addition to his successful law practice, is also 

20 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 

Doug and Mrs. Giorgio, '33, and their family, including Virginia, Cecelia, Doug Jr., Cathy, Tommy, Anthony and Herbert. Doug is a doctor and is stationed at the Bethesda Naval Hospital, Bethesda, Md., as chief anesthetist with the rank of Commander. 
actively engaged as mayor of Escanaba—an elec­lished for the coming year. Wc discussed next 
toral post he has held for several years. Bob, year's Club Football Trip. Our group was some­CL.-\UDE TOBIN, JR., myself and our wives what divided over a trip back to Notre Dame or attended the Georgia Tech game in South Bend to Dallas for the Southern Methodist game. this past season and ran into many old acquaint­Plans were made to have a Christmas party ances which added to the satisfaction of another for members and their wives during the Christmas Irish victor\'. holidays. NORB SKELLEY, '23, was appointed 
—PAUL D. STACK, Sec'y. local publicity chairman. 
—R. A. McAULIFFE, Sec'y. 
Indianapolis Kansas City 
The club held its annual Communion Breakfast On Sunday, December Gth, our Xotre Dame on Sunday, December Gth, with Mass in the Club licid its annual Comniuniun Breakfast at Blessed Sacrament Chapel of Saints Peter and Rockhurst College Chapel with the breakfast fol­Paul Cathedral and breakfast aftcnvards in the lowing at Bcnish's Twin Oaks Restaurant. BOB Marolt Hotel. DR. PAUL F. MULLER, class ilEUNIER, '30, and ED AYHMRD, '48, did aof '37, was chairman and JOHN C. O'CONNOR, grand job as co-chaimien and we had a good class of '38, was toastmasler. Rev. James Galvin, number «[ old-standing alumni with their wives superintendent of Cathedral High Scliool, gave an and children present. Spotted among the crowd address on "Introduction to the Marian Year." 
in attendance were JOSEPH SH.\UGHNESSY, 
There was a large turnout tt{ alumni—especially '22, TO.Nf ("39) and ED ('37) RE,\RDO.V, BILL young members—for the annual Christmas Dance DUNN, '46, JOE VAN DYKE, '44, JOHN staged by Notre Dame students at the Indiana TROUP, '43, JIM BRESETTE, '43, VINCENT Roof Ballroom on December 29. 
SCH.MELTZ, '39, JIM AYLWARD, '41, DAVE 

LEO BARNHORST, '49, is playing pro basket-CROOKS, '38, aXRL ERFFMEYER, '51, BER-ball this season with the Baltimore Gullets. In­NIE FINU&\NE, '4G, ED O'CONNOR, '44, dianapolis Olympians, which he played for last WILLIAM McLEESE, '41, BOB 0\\-EXS, '43, year, folded after the *52-'53 season. SAM RICHARDS, '30, and FR,\NK SCHROER, 
—Lx\WRENCE S. CONNOR 
'32. 

The annual Christmas Dance at the President Hotel in Kansas City was quite a success as Kansas enthusiasm over the affair was ver>- great and 
TIic Notre Dame Club of Kansas held its co-chairmen DICK PREZEBEL, '33, and BOB regular meeting last night at the JOHN C.-\RLIN MEUNIER did a thorough job on arrangements. ('28) Ranch south of Salina. Tlie entire Salina A one-hour cocktail party preceded the dinner, meinbcnship with the exception of President JIM which was served at 8 o'clock, followed by danc­FOLEY, '40. was in attendance. Members pres­ing from 10:00 to 1:00. ent were: NORBERT SKELLEY, '25, JOHN 
—RUSSELL FARRELL, \'icc.Pres. 
a\RLlN, '28. A. J. McLE/VN, '31. A. J. SCHWARTZ, '37, GEORGE COLE, . '34, R. A. 

. Mc.\ULIFFE, *36. 
Kentucky 

Among items of business transacted was the judging of entries for a club letterhead. These Wc are quite proud of the honor ND has be­entries were submitted by the Art Department stowed on several of our high school graduates of N[3r>*mount College here in Salina which is from Louisville, Two of the finest high school an excellent Catholic girls' cojiege. , Wc awarded athletes to ever play football in Kentucky were 525 to the young lady submitting the winning awarded ND athletic scholarships this year, name­entr>*. ly Paul Hornung and Sherrell Sipcs from Flaget 
.A definite schedule o[ meeting dates was estab­High School-In basketball Jack Sedan from 

Jeffcrsonville High School won an" ND scholar­
ship and in scholastic achievement Jim ' Morris, 
also from Jeffcrsonville, won the Burns scholar­
ship. Kentuck\- and greater Louisville is well 
represented this year at XD with over 50 students. 
Wc have started this year an athletic commit­tee headed by JOE RARMON, '25, who played center on the 1922, '23, ^24' team's/ This com­mittee has the duty of studyig^- the local high school talent for possible ND material. It also makes a thorough study of prospiclive athletes' grades and moral character. '• 
Our September meeting was the'kickoff for our annual lootbal) trips advertmng campaign. LAW­RENCE WILLENBRINK, JR., '47, our trip chairman, gave the particulars to the 75 members and guests attending, after which;the ND Foot­ball Highlights of 1952 were shown. Also at this meeting, our last year's president BILL BOSLER, '41, was presented with a silver platter by president OTTO MILETTI, '44, in the name of the club for his wonderful work of the past year. 
Tliis year we ran a bus trip to the Purdue game and a train trip to the Georgia Tech en­counter. The latter trip was one of the biggest and most successful of all our trips. Included in the 14-car train were :wo cars of boys from the local orphanages and hoys' clubs who uerc guests of the club. Our trip chairman, LARRY WIL­LENBRINK and boys' car chairman ROGER HUTER, '40. did a wonderful job in handling alUthfc details. 
Our annual scholarship raffle, headed, by JOE DONALDSON, '23, ^vas again a suhms'. The prize this year was a trip to the Penn game for two. 
U'c are not*- ivorking towards our Chrutmas Dance which will be held on December 26th at the Henr>- Clay Hotel Ballroom. This year the dance is being arranged by an Alumni-Studenl committee headed by JIM CAREY, '49, from the alumni and MIKE McBRATH from the students. With the students pitching in we should have our most successful dance. 
—DICK WILLENBRINK 

taCrosse 
Tlie club held a luncheon meeting during the visit of . GROVER MILLER, State Foundation Governor and JOHN CACKLEY, of the Notre Dame Foundation ofEce, to LaCrosse. Arrange­ments were made by .\UGIE GR.AMS, City Chairman of the Foundation, and President ROBERT H.\CKNER. 
Los Angeles 
A gigantic rally was held by the Los .Angeles Club at the Biltmorc Ballroom on the night pre­ceding the ND-Southern Cal game. The room Was opened at 4 o'clock in the afternoon and drinks were served starting at that time. A gal-a.\y of movie stars, including Jack Haley, Pat O'Brien, Dennis Day and Margaret Whiting were present, along with Frank Leahy, Moose Krausc and the rest of the ND coaching staff. 
On Sunday. December 6th, the Annual Com­munion Breakfast was held, with Afass at Blessed Sacrament Church followed by breakfast at the Holly\vood Athletic Club. 
Memphis 
The Memphis Club obser\'ed the annual Notre Dame Communion Sunday at the Immaculate Conception Church on Sunday. December 6th. The Mass was said by Afonsignor ^f. F. Kearney, Club Chaplain, and was offered for GALVIN HUDSON, *I5, who died in .Aupust. 
Monsignor Kearney gave a little talk on the University, and also gai'c a short resume of Mr. Hudson's activities concerning Xotre Dame and the Notre Dame Alumni Club. Prayers w-ere said at the Mass for the repose of Mr. Hudson's soul. 
After Mass, the club members were guests of Monsignor Kearney for breakfast at the rectory. 
—ARTHUR SARTORE 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
DR. ROBERT HULIH.AN, '41, is now affili­ated with St. Luke's Hospital, Newburgh, N. Y., 
.Voire Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., I9S4 

Milwaukee 
MARK E. MOONEY, '26 

The appointment of Mark E. Moon­ey, '26, as Vice President in Charge of Sales for Typhoon Air Condition­ing Co., has just been announced by 
D. V. Petrone, Executive Vice Presi­dent. Mark will assume charge of all sales and distribution for T\'phoon, one of the major air conditioning manufacturers. 
He was with the Carrier Corp., in several assignments, including Product Manager, from 1937 to 1950. Until he moved to Brookljn and Typhoon, Mark was president of the National Sales Executives of Maine. Mark has been active in a number of trade so­cieties including the American Societ)' of Refrigerating Engineers and the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers. 
He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute. Under Mark's direction Typhoon expects to boost sales 50 "/o this year. 
and was welcomed into our group at our October meeting held at the Pine Tree Inn, Newburgh, 
N. Y. All ND men in tlic Mid-Hudson Valley area may contact John Kulm, Radio Station WKtP, Poughkcepsie, N. Y., concerning our Club ac­tivities. At our November meeting at Poughkcepsie we 
laid plans for our annual Christmas party in Kingston during the holiday season. 
—J. C. McCABE 

Tile club obser\'cd Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday by attending ^fass in a group and having a breakfast meeting after­wards. Tlie RE\'. JiVMES LANE, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame facultv was guest speaker. Presi­dent WILLIAM DOUCETTE had diarge of arrangements. 
Mohawk Valley 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was obscn'cd by the Mohawk Valley Club on Sunday, December 6tli, at St. John*s Church in XJtica, New York. A breakfast followed in the Green Room of the Hotel LTtica. \Yc had an cxcelleat turnout and a very enjoyable morning. 
—BILL LYNCH, Sec'y.-Trcas. 

New Jersey 
DAN O'NEILL and PETE QUINN operated the biggest excursion the N. J. Club has ever 
- had to the ND-Penns^-K-ama football game at Philadelphia on Nov. 7, AVorking for the first time on a S"^i^nl(^c ^^ tickets from the Uni­versity, and excellent seats at that, Dan and Pete were able to muster over 650 Into a priv-ate train of the PennsyK-ania R. R. The trip re­mains one of the most popular of N. J. Club functions. 
JACK Q. ADANfS made December 6 a busy Sunday for Club Members starting with 8:00 a.m. Mass and Holy Communion at Immaculate Con­ception Churdi in Montclair where N. J. Notre Dame men and their families filled the altar rail again and again, as former president of the Uni­versity, REV. JOHN J. aWANAUGH. C.S.C., oR'cred the Mass. Tlic Annual Corporate Com­munion Breakfast, attended by over 300 people, iv-as 5erv-ed at the Montclair Golf Club In Mont­clair. RUSS RILEY was an excellent toastmastcr with Club President CLARK REYNOLDS pre­siding. After the Invocation by Rev. John A. Munich', pastor of Immaculate Conception Church, and a welcome by the city magistrate of Afont­clair, Frank J. Brunctto, an award was accepted by Mrs. John Q. Adams on behalf of M. Jacques Marltain, professor of philosophy and former am­bassador to the Vatican from France. This a^vard was presented by ^Ir. Edward Sklllin, the editor of Tlie Commonweal. Mr. George K. Batt, \lce-Prcsidcnt of Dugan Bros, and winner of the Man of the Vear Award of the N. J. Club for 1931, presented scroll awards to Mr. Lorenzo B. Hoopes, executix-c assistant to SecV. Benson on behalf of the Hon. Ezra T. Benson, United States Sccretarv- of Agriculture and the Hon. John H. Da\-is, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture. The Breakfast this year was unusual in that the ladies were Invited and the success of the affair would appear to indicate that we'll want them back again next year. In keeping with this pleasant cliangc in procedure, Jack Adams was able to pre\*ail on Miss Genevieve ^\'anicr, soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Company for three de­lightful selections which were enthusiastically re­ceived. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., was intro­duced by our *'Mr. Notre Dame," University Trustee JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR. Father Cav­anaugh's address was a moving admonishment of the threat of ideological communism. This theme was taken up by our second honored guest, the Most Rev. Archbishop Thomas A. Boland, a par­ticular favorite of Notre Dame men in this area. The Archbishop pointed out a solution to the communist threat by prayer and sacrifice, reiterat­ing the promise Our Blessed Mother made at Fatima. One could not help but feel a deep spiritual warmth after listening to these two wonderful addresses. Thanks to Jack Adams for another well done job. 
CLARK REYNOLDS, Club President, saw his "Operation Procurement'* reach fruition later the same afternoon with an assist from Jack Adams again. Approximately 73 high school boys with their fathers attended the "Operation'* which In­tends to give prospective college students a look at Notre Dame life. To this end they heard JACK LONG, Club Treasurer, give a recent student's \-iew; Gene Dean, counsel for the Erie Railroad, the viewpo*"' o( a non-alumnus; Joseph 
AMBROSE F. "BUD" DUDLEY, '43 

One of the busiest men in college sports these days is Ambrose F. "Bud" Dudley, '43, director of athletics at Villanova University. His unprece­dented sale of nearly 60,000 tickets to the American Stores Co., in Phila­delphia, for Villanova's opening game this past fall with Georgia was one of the primar)' reasons for an attendance of more than 97,000 people in all at the contest. 
A successful businessman who oper­ates his own wallpaper and paint store. Bud has applied what he calls "a business approach" to Villanova foot­ball. Bud was a star gridder at St. Joseph's Prep in Philadelphia and later attended Kiski. He earned a baseball monogram at Notre Dame and was a member of the football squad during Elmer Laydcn's coaching regime. 
After establishing a brilliant serv­ice record in the Air Force during World War II, he returned to Phila­delphia. From 1948 to 1950, Bud was president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Philadelphia and received the "Man of the Year" award there in 1950. For several years he was Foun­dation City Chairman. 
Bud is a member of the National Executive board of the Pop ^Vamer Foundation and is also one of the governors of the famed Maxwell Club in Philadelphia. He is married and the father of three youngsters. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 

M. B>Tne, Jr., an old grad*s viewpoint, with ao address by Rev. J ohn J. Cavanaugh whom the Club really kept busy for the full day. Clark has mstituted a. pennsnent area-wide setup to follow up tliis program from year to year. The Lacordaire School again was our hostess for the afternoon, lending as well the assistance of their pretty- students for serving refreshments. 
—THOAtAS H. GREEN, Scc*y 

New Mexico 
A Communion Breakfast was held by the New Mexico Club on Sunday, December 6th, in ob­seHi'ance of Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. 
Several members of the club attended the Southern California game and pre-game festivities. 
New Orleans 
ft appears that attempts to reacti\*ate the New Orleans Club are beginning to pay dividends. The club had a Stag Smoker in early November at which bailed seafood and beer was ser^'ed. ^fonk Simons, former coach of Tulane University and one of those responsible in inaugiurating the Tulane-ND scries, was principal speaker of the evening. 
On Sunday morning, December 6th, the club obscr\'cd Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day, and had a fairly good turnout. Mr. Pred Digby, General ^fanage^ of the Sugar Bowl and an honorary member of the club, had with him mo\ics of the ND-Gcorgia Tech game which were shown following^ tlie breakfast. The Mass and breakfast w*as held at Sacred Heart Church with 
Father Peyton cooperating beautifully. 
Next event on the rejuvenated schedule was a noon luncheon on December 30th honoring the boys from the area who are currently students at the University and their fathers. It Is planned to have a party for members and their wives at the Jax Stein Room In January. 
—^V. H. JOHNSTON, Pres. 

New York 
The principal speaker at the Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast of the New York Club on December 6th was Honorable Robert F. 
Wagner, Jr., mayor-elect of the City of New York. The breakfast was held in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Biltmore following 9 o'clock mass in St. Patrick*s Cathedral. 
Guest speaker on the program ^^•as the Rev. Robert \V. Greene, M.^f., who was only re­cently released by the Chinese Communists and who was on his first visit to the United States since 1937. Father Greene is the author of *'Calvary In China.** 
Northern California 
The second annual Christmas Dance of the Northern California Club was held on ^fonday, December 21st, in the Italian Room of the - St. Francis Hotel. From all Indications the affair was even more of a success than the Initial one of a year ago. 
—A. ^^\ McMULLEN 

Oklahoma City 
Word from the Oklahoma City Club of the election of new officers. President: ED KAV­.VNAUGH, '38; Vice President: CRARLES Mc­FARL.\ND, *39; Secretary-: ED BUDDY, '41; Treasurer: ROD JANEAV'AY, class of '30. 
Club reports a very nice turnout for its Unl­x'ersal Communion Sunday observance on Decem­ber 6th. ifass was held at St. Francis Church in Oklahoma City and the breakfast at Beverly's Drive-In. Father Murtagh, pastor of St. Francis Church and a "rabid Notre Dame fan,** was guest speaker. 
The Annual Christmas Party was held at the home of Dr. and Mrs. ALBERT DRESCHER, *38. 
Tlie club Is also planning to sponsor the Uni­versity Glee Club's visit to Oklahoma City on February 3rd. 
—E. S. KAVANAUGH 

Oregon 
A luncheon was held in Portland by the Notre Dame Club of Oregon in honor of Most Rev. Loras T. Lane, Aaxillar>- Bishop of Dubuque. He was In the city as the featured speaker at the opening session of the Conference of Social and Industrial Relations. A large group of alumni and friends attended. 
Panama 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Panama held a farewell luncheon last Fall for students who were leaWng to enter the University. 
Philadelphia 
The Fifth Annual Communion Breakfast of the Philadelphia Club was held on December 6th, with ^Iass at St. John's Church celebrated by Archbishop O'Hara of Philadelphia, followed by breakfast at the Adelphia Hotel. Rev. Anthony 
L. Osthelmer, editor of the Catholic Standard ic Times, and several speakers from the sports world addressed the breakfast gathering and an award was presented to the outstanding player In the Catholic Football League during the past season. 
—JOHN F. voir, Sec'y. 

Pittsburgh 
A rare privilege was granted to the Pitts­burgh Club on December 6th when its members were allowed to assist at the Liturgy Mass of the Byzantine-Slavonic Rite in conjunction with the obser%-ance of Universal Notre Dame Com­mtmlon Sunday. 
The ^fass, held at the newly-opened Sts. Cyril and Methodius Seminar^', was celebrated by Mon­signor Nicholas Elko, Rector of the Seminary and Vicar General of the Diocese, ^fonsignor Elko also gave a speech at the post-^fas5 breakfast In the Seminary Refectory. His subject was "Our Lady of Fatlma and the Conversion of Russia." 
After breakfast there w-as an Open House which enabled the chib members to Inspect the new-seminary. TO\f GILLESPIE, '39, was chairman. 
South Central 
A dinner meeting was held recently during the \'isit of GROVER MILLER, Foundation Gov­ernor and JOHN CACKLEY, o[ the campus office, to Madison. Club President PfflL SCHWARZ had charge of the meeting at which time talks were given by Miller and Cackley. The "HIghlighU of 1932" football fihn was also shown. 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA—^The club's Universal Communion Sunday Breakfast in Altoona was attended by a representative group of aitmini, wives and children. Left to right, seated: Mrs. H. N. Dunegan, Dr. H. N. Duncgao, Remus Lusardi, Mrs. Primo Lusardi, Club President Primo Lusardi, guest speaker Father O'Donnell and Robert Jones, Sec'y. Standing: Don Schettig, V-P, Mrs. Schettig, William Clear, Mrs. Clear, Susie Clear, Pat Jones, Mrs. Jones, Robert Jones, Jr., Mrs. Frank Holaban, John Holahan, William Holahan and Frank Holahan, Foundation District Governor, Photo by Altoona Mirror. 
.Vetrt Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Ftb., 1954 23 

BALTIMORE—^The Notre Dame club observed Communion Sunday by attendmg Mass at Loyola Chapel and later listening to guest speaker Father Clare Du-ycr at breakfast meeting. 
South Jersey 
Due to the huge success of the recent raffle of Pcnn-XD football tickets, the South Jersey Club was able to set aside $1000 as the second installment of its fledgling Scholarship Fund. If the present rale of growth can be maintained, it should not be long before the fund can sup­port, or at least help support, a student at the University. 
—MATT J. a-\MPANELL.\, SccV.-Trcas. 

Soufhern Colorado 
The club held its first Christmas Party, a din­ner dance, on Dec. 29, at the Broadmoor Hotel, Colorado Springs, Members and guests enjoyed a pleasant evening. 
St. Joseph Volley 
"TIic greatest team we ever had at Notre Dame," in the words of Coach FRANK LEAHY, '31, was honored at the 34th annual civic testi­monial banquet of the St. Joseph Valley Club ol Xoirc Dame on Wednesday evening, December 
9. A scll-oiit crowd filled the cast dining hall on tlic campus and heard a batter\' of speakers hail the Fighting Irish as cliampions. 
JOE BOLAND, '27, sports director of local stations WSBT and WSBT-TV, Avas toastmastcr. Honored guests were the members of the *53 Irish squad which won nine games, tied one, and became the subjects of national controvers>- when they were selected second, behind the University of ^larxiand, in the polls for national champion by major wire ser\-iccs. 
Highlights of the evening were the announce­ment of monogram winners and tlie presentation of the Irish shillelagh by 1933 Captain DON PENZA to 1954 co-captains DAN SHANNON and PAUL MATZ. BcJi arc juniors and both played end on the '53 team. 
Boland called tlie team "the national cham­pions of 1953," while Coach Leahy called it "the greatest football team with wliom we have ever been associated." The squad 'had a capacity* for lo>'alty as well as talent, he added. 
Featured speakers included Paul Brechler, di­rector of athletics at the University of Iowa, ARCH WARD, *23, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune, and JACK LAVELLE, '28, New York sports public relations man and raconteur. 
Brccliler called the Irish "One of the finest teams that ever played football." Referring to Notre Dame's mucli-discusscd clock-stopping in­juries in the XD-Iowa game of Nov. 21, Brechler said *'Notre Dame did what they did within the 
time allowed and within the rules. Wliat's im­
portant, they scored the touchdowns. You'll hear 
no beefs from Iowa." 
Ward, praising the cliaractcr-building benefils of inter-cnllegiaic football, called the team "The all-time Notre Dame squad of my experience." 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., '37, ex­ecutive vice-president of the university, said the Notre Dame last-ditcli comeback to tie the score in the Iowa game u'as *'a memorable demonstra­tion of coolness under fire, the hallmark of a champion." He defended spectator interest in the sport as an "integral part of the game." 
Also heard were EDWARD (MOOSE) KRAUSE, '34, Notre Dame director of athletics, and Mavor JOHN A. SCOTT, '38, of South Bend. HARRY KOEHLER. JR., '37, president of the sponsoring club, opened the program and REV. JA.MES C. HE/\LY, C.S.C., '39, club chaplain, gave the invocation. CHARLES CAL­LAHAN, '38, ND director of sports publicity, introduced \rarious press representatives at the dinner. 
DxVNIEL J. YOUNGERMAN, '35, headed the committee of local Notre Dame alumni who staged the testimonial. 
St. Louis 
Tlie annual family Communion Breakfas: was at the top of the calendar for early December. FATHER TOM O'DONNELL, C.S.C., Assistant to the Director of tlic Notre Dame Foundation, celebrated the Mass and was the guest speaker. OLLIE HINSMiVN, '49, completed all the ar­rangements and did a very fine job, indeed. 
Next on the slate was the Christmas dance on December 26ih at the Sheraton Hotel. This year's dance was originated by the students with firm support by the alumni, so that both could become better acquainted. DON DOHENY, class of '46. led the alumni support, while PHIL HIGGINS was in charge of the students* preparations. 
Vcr\* fine club spirit shown in note from FRANCIS A. KLEIN, '26, and his son, KEITH 
R. KLEIN, '51- ,Keith, away in the army novs-, is kept on active list and fully advised on all activities by his father. 
A welcome to new member MURRAY GLAS­GOW, class of '29, and a thanks to GEORGE a FISK, '43, now of Belleville, III., and to all our other neariiy Illinois neighbors for their co­operation in the smooth running of the St. Louis club. 
Note from RALPH E. SCHUMAKER, '48. Out of army no%v, has sales territory covering West Virginia and parts of Ohio, Marj'Iand and PcnnsyK'ania. Last summer Ralph married a girl 
he had met five years ago at St. Mar>-*s Academy in South Bend. —WALT DRISCOLL 
Tidewater 
Our "Football Special" to the Notre Dame-
Nortli Carolina game was both socially and finan­
cially a wonderful success. All of our patrons 
thoroughly enjoyed themselves, and they are al­
ready inquiring as to what we plan to do 
next fall. 
Once again we wish to express our thanks to 
BOB C/VHILL, whose cooperation and * patience 
was responsible for the success of our venture. 
Tlie following members attended Mass and 
recei\Td Communion in a group on December 
6th: PHILLIP RUSSO, '49, FR^VNK AMATO, 
'52, HAROLD SOLOMAN, '52, DON PIED­
MONT, '49, DENNIS O'NEILL, '51, GERALD 
Mca\BE, '53. FRED HARTM.-VN, '52, and 
HARRY MCKNIGHT, '43. 
After Mass we were 3cr\*ed a most delicious 
breakfast in the faculty dining room of the Nor­
folk Catholic High School. Naturally, the topic 
of the conversation was how Marv'land ever 
"rated" number one in the nation. 
—HARRY MCKNIGHT 

Tri-Cities 
Tlie lovely wives of the Notre Dame Club of 
the Tri-Cities creaed quite a bit of enjoyment 
with their square dance on November 7th. 
Tlic club attended 8 o'clock Mass and Com­
munion on Sunday, December 6th. at St. An­
thony's Church in Davenport in commemoration 
of the annual Universal Notre Dame Communion 
Sunday. 
—P. J. KIRCH 

Tulsa 
A Communion Breakfast was held by the Tulsa i Club on Sunday, December 6th, in observance of Universal Communion Sunday. 
In November, the club was privileged to hear Mr. Clarence Manion when he spoke to the Men's Dinner Club of Tulsa. His topic was *'Tlic Key to Peace." 
—\\\ N. SHEEHAN 

Washington, D. C. 
An early evening Christmas' cocktail dance was held by the Washington, D. C , Club on Decem­ber 26th under the chairmanship of DUKE MURPHY. The affair was unusually successful, witli dancing from 5 to 8 p.m. in the Sheraton-Carlton Hotel. 
DR. FRANCIS MURRAY, '36, was chairman of the Washington, D. C , Club's annual Com-
Xotre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 

PANAMA—^A farewell luncheon was given to ND students this past Fall. Alumni include Sebastian Company, Lorenzo Ramagoza, Joe HarringtoHj John Fogarty, Jose Cardenas and Antonio Dominguez. 
munion Breakfast on December 6th. 9 o'clock Mass was celebrated at Holy Cross College and was followed by breakfast at the college. Rev. Francis J. Conncll, C.S.S.R., outstanding author, teaclier, and moral theologian, was guest speaker on the program. 
Western Washington 
Under the capable chairmanship of WILL TIERNEY, '01, many Notre Dame men attended the Annual Retreat held at St. ^fartin's Abbey this past summer. Our club is particularly proud of GEORGE NYERE, *04, who was instrumental in founding the St. Martin's Retreats. For this work George was "Man of the Year** at last spring's Universal Notre Dame Night. 
This fall (November 18tli) Notre Dame men met at Rose's Highway Inn for our 35th Annual Notre Dame Smoker. Besides cocktails, we had chicken—^"all you can cat"—and were shown movies of the World Series, ^Ve were also honored by the presence of three charter members of the Western Washington CIub» FRANK M c HUGH, class of 'II, EMMETT LENIHAN. class of '42, and HARRY ABEL. Again, PAT SUTH­ERLAND, active and loyal Notre Dame alumntis, made all the arrangements. 
To celebrate the Marian Year proclaimed by PIUS XII, beloved honorary alumnus of Notre Dame (LL.D., 1938), our club received Holy Communion in a body to honor the Immaculate Conception on December 6tli. After Mass at St. James' Cathedral we met at the Sorrento Hotel to hear the Rev. Lawrence Willenborg, Arch­diocesan Director for the Propagation of the Faith. Again, the wives, daughters and sons of Notre Dame men were invited. JxUIES H. KELLEHER headed the arrangements. 
In the latter part of January, the club plans a mixer under the chairmanship of CHARLES LaCUGNA, class of '50, along with GEORGE SCHILL, '27, to make plans for the coming Universal Notre Dame Night. 
—CHARLES LaCUGNA 

Youngstown 
The Youngstown Club was saddened by the death of Mr. Russell "Busty" /Vshbaugh, father of a great Notre Dame football player, *'PETE'* ASHBAUGH, '48. As a player, coach and teacher, ^f^. /Vshbaugli was loved and admired by eveni'one- Among the Notre Dame notables coached by Mr. Aslibaugh arc H.\RVEY BROWN, 
*24, RAY DAH.M/\N, '27, MIKE KOKEN, *33, FRED MUNDEE, '37, and BOB DOVE, *43. Our thanks to President WILLIAM LYDEN, JR., '50, who lias worked especially hard these past two years for the club's success. Bill ap­preciates the help given by PAUL GUARNIERI, '36, of the Warren area for an excellent job as toastmaster for Universal Notre Dame Night. Last year GRIFF ALLEN, *47, also proved a wise choice for this important affair. \Vc have been proud of CHUCK RIFFLE. *40, coach of Warren Harding High School which has been rated high in the state each year. 
JOHNNY MORAN, '29, and Gx\BE MORAN, *32, plus Attorney BOB SINKO, '48, beat a good five-man bowling team to help Notre Dame's team up the ladder. A welcome addition to this vear's team is TAMMY KERRIGAN, '44. 
We are happy to report VINCE "PORKIE'* LAVELL, '32, is doing just fine after his serious auto accident. DR. EDMUND MASSULLO, '24, is ace high in "Forkie's" estimation for his wonderful care. 
Please fonvard anv alumni news and pictures to CH.\RLIE BUTLER, '43, 34U Hillman St., Youngstown, Ohio, for this Youngstown area column. 
—CHx\RLES BUTLER 

*M^ki 
MOHAWK VALLEY—Alumni club members and guests held a Universal Communion Sunday Breakfast in Utica, N. Y., Dec 6. Photo on left: (left to right) Dr. Shaughnessy, Don FuIIcm, Frank Donalty, Dr. Hitzelberger, Charles Hitzelberger, David Dw^er and George Briggs. Photo on right of entire group. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 25. 
Engagements 

Miss Mar>- Ann KasrliUincr and CHARLES W. FALKEXBERG, JR., '52. 
Marriages 

Miss Vera ^rais and CHARLES L. ZIEBARTH, *4I, Idaho Falls, Idaho, Nov. 7. 
Miss Patricia Ann Mix and Lt. JOSEPH D. USINA, USSR., '43, Oslo, Xoroay, Xov. 21. 
Miss Rita Frances Sullivan and DR. JOSEPH 
P. MURPHY, '48, Denver, Colo., Oct. 24. 
Miss Joan V. Kuchnl and JOHN D. DURKI.V, '49, Milivautee, Wis. 
Miss Phvllfa Braun and THOMAS J. KELLY, '49, Buffalo, N. Y., July II. 
Miss Roseraarlo Kohne and LIGUORI A. O'DONXELL, JR., '49, Garj-, Ind., July 25. 
Miss Kathrvn Ann Loosbrock and \VILLL\M 
J. FLEMING, '50, Charles City, Iowa, -Xov. 14. 
Miss Florence Ann Buckley and BRIAN DUFF, '52, Dcs Moines, Iowa, Xov. 28. 
.Miss Arlinc Lacmlein and LLOYD J. FOR­RESTAL, '52, Rochester, N. Y., Xov. 26. 
MUs Betty Liang and ALFONSO F. GOTU­ACO, '53, Notre Dame, Ind., Nov. 26. 
Miss Virginia Grady and Ensifn J.A.MES THU­LIS, '53, Chicago, 111., Nov. 18. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. OAKES, JR., '31, a son, Thomas Elliott, September 15. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. DUNN, '32, a son, October, 1953. ^fr. and Mrs. JOHN F. SULLIV.AX, JR., '33, a son, Patrick Joseph, October, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES R- AUSTIN, '38, a son. November 19. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. .McKE-VDRV, JR., '38, a daughter, August, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. GER^VLD PAVEGLIO, '41, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, August 10. .Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. PURCELL, '42, a daughter, .Anita, November 22. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE A. UHL, '42, a son, George Hcnr>% November 13. Mr. and Mrs. QUE-VTIN C. STUR.\f. '43, twin sons, Midiacl and William, November 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. C. A. MUNEO^S, '44, a son, Cesar, November 9. Mr. and Mrs. BE.N M.VM.MINA, '44, a son, Joseph Ross, H, November 8, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. X. VAIL, '45, a son, David Alan, October H. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES J. CLAUSS, '46, a son, David, October 7. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES T. CLAUSS, '47, a daughter, Mellda, October 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. GORDON L. FORESTER, '47, a son, Thomas Vincent, December II. 
Mr. and Mrs, RICHARD E. O'CONNELL, *48, a daughter, Elizabeth Patricia, July 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. \\*ELTER, '48, a son, Timothy Robert, August 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. R. A. BUSH, '49, a daughter. ^lary Theresa, November 3. 
Mr. McGIynn 

-Mr, and Mrs. WALTER J. YOUNGER, '49, a daughter, Theresa Anne, October 26. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. LALLY, '50, a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. RICRVRD F. HAHN, '50, a son, John Nugent. October 5, 1953. 
-Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT F. DeCRANE, '50, a daughter, Barbara Jean, November, 1953. 
Mr. and .Mrs. lUU'MOND F. FAG.\N, '50, a daughter. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER F. ZENNER, '50, a son, Christopher Joseph, October 13. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. LOKKEN, '51, a daughter, Naiic>* Joan, November 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. TERRY BRENNAN, '49, a daughter, Dec. 28. 
ifr. and Mrs. JAMES W. FRICK, '51, a son, Tliomas Patrick, Dec 25. 
Mr. and Mr^. WALTER COLLINS, '52, a son. W. Robert, July 10, 1953. 
Obituary 

THO.MAS HALE, '81. of Pr>or, Oklahoma, passed away on June 20 at age 94. 
NEAL H. EWING, '84, of Rosclle, New Jer­sey, died November 5. 
THO.\L\S E. NOONrVN, '97, of Chicago, IIH­nois, succumbed to a heart attack last August 11. 
LUCIEN C. WHEELER, '01, Los Angeles, California, died November 11. 
HAROLD H. DAVITT, LL.B., '03, passed away in October. His residence was in Gaines­ville, Florida. 
GEORGE NYERE, '04, died quite suddenly November 28. He was a resident of Seattle, Washington, and an active member of the West­ern Washington Club. 
ROSCOE P. HURST. LL.B.. '06, passed axvay in Portland, Oregon, on November 24. 
W*ILLIAM B. HELMKAMP, '11, died „n August 27. 
JOSEPH B. .McGLYNN, '12, of East St. Louis, 111., died on Dec. 14. Mr. McGlynn was a former governor for the Notre Dame Foundation m Missouri and ser\Td as president, some years ago, of the y<nrc Dame Alumni Club of Sl-Louis. He was an attorney and maintained his own law firm. He was a Deputy Grand Knight. Master of 4ih degree. District Deputy and Grand Knight in the K. of C. Mr. McGlynn belonged to the American Legion and had been City x\t­lorncy. Two of his brothers, Dan, '18, and Rob­ert, '23, attended Notre Dame. He is sur\'ivcd by his *vidow, three daughters and two sons. 
FATHER FURSTOSS 

REV. BERNARD J. FURSTOSS, C.S.C.. '41, director of purchasing at Notre Dame, died on Nov. 7 in the student infirmar>\ Father Furstoss was stricken with a heart ailment last July and was under treatment for several months in the St, Joseph Hospital before being transferred to tlic campus infirmary. Father Furstoss also had scr^'ed as super\'isor of maintenance and rector of Alumni, Badin and St. Edward's Halls. He received an A.B. degree from Notre Dame in 1941 and was ordained on June 10, 1945. 
DR. JOHN F. DELPH, '16, of Chicago, Illi­nois, passed away on November 8. 
J.VMES F. CR/\INE, '17, died last June 22. He is-as a resident of Columbus, Ohio. 
REV. LAURENCE R. CUN, '17. died July 19, 1953, in Proctor, Vermont. 
EDWARD F. McGR-VTH, '18, of Kansas City, Kansas, passed away in early November. 
GER.VLD CLE.\RY, '21, passed away unex­pectedly last July 11. shortly after being ap­pointed to the Mackinac Island Park Commission by Governor Williams of Michigan. 
THOMAS A. ROSE, '22, passed away in the latter part of the summer. He was from An­derson, lud'iaaa. 
WALTER J. STUHLDREHER, '22, was killed in an automobile accident on Dec. 24, near Tip­ton, Ind. He is survived by his widow, Mildred; three sons, IVilliam D. and Waller F., both '53, and Donald, a freshman at Notre Dame; two daughters, Anne and Marjoric; and a brother, Harr>* A., '25. 
GEORGE L. RE.VRDON, '24, of Detroit, Micli­igan, died last June 18 after an illness of more than four years. 
EDWIN J. WESNER, '25, of Fort Wayne, In­diana, died November 13, 1953. 
ARTHVK SULLIV/VN, LL.B., '27, of St. Paul, Minnesota, passed away during the fall. 
HERBERT SCHULT2, '28, died In Port Ar­thur, Texas, on September 29, 1953. 
26 Notre Dame Atumnui, Jan.-Feb., 1954 
FORT WAYNE — Herb Shrincr's ('eft) 
President Bob Kearney, 

J. JOSEPH CONLEY, *3l, of Bloominston, Illinois, died on Xovciiibcr 13. He is survived by fiis wife and tlircc cliifdren. 
JEROME E. MADDEN, '31, died suddenly on August 19. He was from Covington, Ky. 
CARROLL B. .\(URPHV, '31, of Clu'copec Falls, ^ta!•s., passed away on October 6. He is survived by bis wife Mar>*, a daughter and an infant son. 
DR. WALTER T. SULLIVAN, '32, of Ilronx­
villc. New York, succumbed to a heart attack on October 29. Sur\-iving arc his widow, liis mother, two sons, three daughters and a brother. 
DR. SARE A. L/\NZfVFAME, '37, passed away in Farniington, Missouri, on November 1. He is survived by his widow and five sons. 
BROTHER CLEMENT MROCZEK, C.S.C., of the University of Notre Dajnc, died this past fall in the community infirmar>- on the campiis. He was born in Posen, Poland, December 30, 1889, and entered the Congregation of Ifoly Cross March 19, 190G. He had held various assignments in the order. 
DANIEL P. HIGGINS, of New York City, noted architect and a member of Notre Dame's Science 
 AH-Star Show aided club*s scholarship fund.  M8, extends appreciation. 
and Engineering .Advisorj" Council, died Dec. 26. Two of his outstanding works arc the Jefferson .Memorial and the National Ga!lcr>* of -Art in Washington, D. C. 
Sympathy 

PAUL PFOHI., '22, on tlie death of liis wife. 
AMLTER TROHAX, '26, on the death of his father December 2. 
IIOX. LUTHER M. SWTGERT, '27, on the deatii of ills motficr. 
WILLIAM DOWDALL, '28, on the death of liis fatjier. 
DO.V ELSER, '3G, on tlic death of his father. 
WILLIAM FALLON, '37, on the recent death of his fatlier, 
THOMAS M. SWEEXEV, '43, on the death of iiis mother. 
PHILIP JE.NSEX, '49, on tlic death of his mother. 
NORMAN E. .MIRRKGTON, '49, on the re­cent death of his mother. JOHN L. PARKER, '49, on the death of his mother. GEORGE S. DeKLME, '30, on the death ct his father in October. 
1904 
JAMES R. RECORD, managing cd'tor of the Fort Worth (Texas) Star Telegram, was recently-made a Knight of the Order of St. Gregory the Great by His Holiness Pope Pius XII. Jim's cita­tion stated, "A fine Catholic gentleman, James Robert Record has had the courage as managing editor of the Fort ^Vorth Star-Telegram to print news of religion. Distinguished for his compe­tence and intellectual honesty he is respected not only in Fort Worth but also throughout Texas as an able journalist and a leader in the development of healthy opinion." The Papal honor was bestowed by Bishop Thomas K. Gor­man, Dallas, Texas. The bishop praised Mr. Record for having "used a mundan: but very efTcctive instrument to bring to the pccple knowl­edge and truth. Through the instrument of the press he has ser\-ed God, and we have come to honor a modern knight journalist." 
Fred L. Steers 1911 105 So. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illinois 
vav n Paul R. Byrne I T I a O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
Ron O'NciU 1914 1350 No. Black Oak Dr. 
Soutli Bend 17, Indiana 

Returning for our 40th Anniversary Reunion next June, according to direct and grapevine in­formation, are CECIL E. BIRDER, JOH.X F. CARROLL, WALTER L. CLE.MENTS, TWOMEY ,\L CLIFFORD, THO.MAS B. CURRY, WIL­LIA.M J. CUSACK, WILLIA.M P. DOWTCING, DR. JOHN R. DUNDO.V, LOUIS F. EICK, SI.MOX T. FARRELL, SI.MEOX T. FL.\N.\G;VX, FRED W. GUSHURST, FR,\XCIS .M. HOG.AN, EUGENE A. JCAiVE, EDWLV J. L.VRNEV, R.AV­.MOND T. .MILLER, HARRY M. XEWNING, JAMES V. ROBLNS, CH,\RLES L. VAUGHXX, 
M. E.M.MErr WALTER, LEO S. ZGODZIXSKI and R. S. O'NEILL. 
These add up to twcnty-three. But we want the other seventy-three! Perhaps a letter from you to one of your classmates will prompt him to come back and relive those happy days of forty years ago. "POYNT" DOU'NIXG has vol­unteered to try to lure to our beautiful canipus some we've missed these many years; won't YOU write just one letter to someone you would like to meet here in June? 
We al%vays knew there was a great deal of 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 19S4 27 

John E. Hock^\•altJ '32, was rcccnt/y pro­moted to assistant general manager of gen­eral accounting, Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. 
pent up emotion and scntimcni in the class of '14, but we never dreamed tliat our invitation to ZD LARXEY of Chicaso would elicit such a poetic response. Ed announces his *'homccoming*' in verse too touching to be revealed in adx'ancc. It xvill be recited by our class poet at the re­union dinner! 
Wc and the Alumni office tverc sorry to Icarn, only recently, of the death a fcv*- years ago of IGNATIUS L. SOISSON at Connellsvillc, Pa. Remember him in your prayers. 
To the long list of '14 men who have distin­guished tliemsehes, add the name of CHARLES FAHY, Judge of the District of Columbia Cir­^:uit of the United States Court of Appeals. 
We're wondering who SIM FL.\XAGAX*s latest -client is. Could be Mrs. Roosevelt, or Santa Glaus. Postcards have arriied »»eekly horn Sim and his lovely wife from Dublin, Paris, Rome, Berne, and Madrid. Ever\' card says *'Scc you in June!" 
Nice note from Leo Zgodzinski, whose mail from the Alumni office had been returned "un­claimed," advises tliat he's at 1S44 East Cleve­land Road, South Bend 17. We're glad to get "Squad" back on the Hst. Anyone know the present address of otlier "unclaimeds"—RICHARD 
W. COLLINS, TIMOTHY E. DO\\*XEY, JUAN 
G. GONZALEZ, BENJAMIN GUERRA (a great felloiv!), HAROLD F. MADDEN, GEORGE J. MASSEY, PAUL J. .MOUSHEY, FR.\NCIS J. RYAN, or ROBERT E. ("BOB") DALY, for­merly of Pittsburgh? Drop us a line if you know \vhere wc can rcacli any of these. 
10 1 C James E. Sanford I T I O 1429 West Farragut Ave. Chicago 40, Illinois 
IA I # Grover F. Miller 1710 612 AVisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
Our class president, LOU KEIFER, is vice-president and manager ot the Tribune and Star of Terrc Haute, Indiana. GROVER MILLER, Governor of the Notre Dame Foundation in AVis­consin, and JOHN C-VCKLEY of the Founda­tion's main office were present at several ND meetings in Central Wisconsin during the month of November. 
«||| ^  Edward  J. AlcOskcr  
I T I /  2205  Briar^vood  Road  
Cleveland  Heights 18, Ohio  

1 
010 Geors;c E. Harbcrt ' • O 108 North Main Street Sycamore, Illinob 
rS^ 
uiJSil 
UUNEn-12-i3 

l?pgs??£^fe'^^^^i^?s 
Theodore C. Radcmakcr 1919 Peru Foundrj- Company Peru, Indiana 
Ralph W. Bergman 

1920 
1609 No. Jefferson Ave. St. Louis 6, Missouri 

lOOl Dan W. Duffy ITZI 1101 N.B.C. Building Cleveland 14, Ohio 
1 
000 Gerald A. Ashe '* * 39 Cambridge Street Rochester 7, N. Y. 
A hearty welcome to DAN YOUNG upon his return to the U.S./V. after a long sojourn in Chile. Dan and his wife, Loretta, arrived back in the countr>' on October 26, just in time to see the ND-Penn football game in Philadelphia. Dan's present address is: % Foley Brothers, Inc., Pleasantville, New York. 
^Ve extend our deep sympathy to PAUL PFOHL and family on the death of Paul's wife, Alice. Wc expect all '22 men to remember Mrs. 
P/ohl in their prayers. There are two sons: Paul, Jr., and Roger L. 
ED COCHR/VNE's latest address is: Pembrook Hotel, 317 Marion Ave., Seattle, Washington. EDDIE HERBERT is now located at 1595 Eliza­beth PI., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Your secretary had a delightful visit recently in Waseca, Minnesota, with the DANNY COUGH­LINS. Besides showing their visitor the scenic beauties of the Waseca area, Don and his wife, Bess, made Faribault, Owatanna, Rochester, and Winona ports of call on a scenic tour. 
^frs. Gertrude Folev, wife of our beloved de­ceased classmate, CHARLES "CHUCK" FOLEY. now resides at 3112 NE 24th St., Portland, Oregon. Daughter Mar>' Ann and son Charles compose the balance of the family. 
"BUCK" SILVW'S professional footballers, the San Francisco 49ers. are in second place in the Western Division of the National Football League. 
DR. EDDIE ANDERSON, head coach of the Holy Cross football team, had some tough going this year due to sonic important material losses, particularly the loss of Chuck Maloy, ace passer. Eddie still has a vcr>- important assignment ahead of him—helping to weld together a football team to represent the Eastern section of the nation for the annual East-West Shrine football classic in San Francisco in late December. 
m OOO Louis V. Bruggner ITi^O 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 
It's been a long, dry summer and fall, as far as news of '23 men is concerned. Not only has the Secrctar>- been soundly asleep at his type­writer, but the incoming mail has hardly reached flood proportions either. 
JACK NORTON, Class President, has been quite active in his letter-writing, an achievement not imitated by classmates, or quite appreciated cither. 
HANK LfVUERMAN, sometime after the sum­mer reunion, wrote as follows: "Had a meeting 
Allwein and Mrs. Francis G. Kcllner, Auxiliary members; and President Jim Clauss. BUFFALO—This group helped plan the  Buffalo Club's Christmas Dance. Mrs. Paul 
28 Xotre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb.^ 1954 
NEW MEXICO—The Club's Communion Breakfast was held at the Hihon Hotel, Albuquerque. Front row: Anthony F. Potenziani, '40; Father Richard Butler, '42; Club President Cecil Jordan, MO. Second row: Ralph G. Glaser, Jr., '52; Jaime Velcz-Saenz, '49; Wil­liam J. Schulthcis, *53; Pete Duran, '53; Louis C. Lujan, '24; Michael J. McGuinness, '08. Third row: George A. Schreiber, '41; John 
L. Minck, '52; Philip B. Deily, '47; Frank Hudson, *53; and Roland F. Treheame, '53. 
with FATHER JOHN DUFFY, National Chap­lain of the American Legion who was tn Mcnotn­inoc at the Upper Peninsula Legion meeting and spoke in the evening. . . . Our other classmate, TOM PLOUFF, was occupied elsewhere and missed the opportunity that was mine." Details of PJoiifT's occupation elscu-lirre were not ofTercd, 
Belated scrutiny of the Secretar\-'s files shows that MERLIN ROLWING mailed in his rcserxa­tton for the Reunion on June 27, 1953. Docs this mean vour resen-'ation for the 35th reunion, Merlin?' 
ED KELLY, of Emmetsburg, Iowa, was instru­mental in getting his law partner's son, Tom Spies, enrolled at ND last September. Tom paid a visit to your Secretary' after he got settled in the fall. 
Of interest to all Class members is the pub­lication sometime during the spring of 1954 of a revised Class roster, showing geographical group­ings and embodying certain questionnaire infor­mation gleaned at the Reunion. The cooperation of all men is asked in returning promptly their replies to mailings from the Secretary. ^Vc have a modest treasury which wc hope to use mainly in mailings and related expense. If I break down and wxite you, will you please pencil me a memo in reply. PAUL C^VSTNER, on the strength of his years of experience as Secretar>-, predicts you won't answer your mail. Make a liar out of him now! 

KENTUCKY—The local club sponsored train trip for 100 youngsters from Louisville orphanages to Georgia Tech game. Roger Huter (left) and Lawrence Willenbrink, Jr., chairmen, with four of the boys. 
I Q^A ^^^'' Thomas A. Kellv, C.S.C. 
IT/. H Cavanaugh Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
I recently received this very fine letter from ED aVNTWELL: 
Dear Father Kelly: 
''Looking forward to our 30th Class Reunion reminds mc to try and make your Job as Class Secretar>* a little easier by furnishing you what news I can about some of our classmates who, like the dignified but somewhat discredited ground­iiog, cast their collective shadows not cVc'r>- year but every five years on the finest campus in the world. 
"HxVROLD LONDO, Green Bay, Wisconsin, guarantor of pure and abundant'-, water for his community. Is quite chesty over the arrival of his first ^randcliild, a grandson presented by his daughter, Rosemary. His son, Bill, '53, is doing newspaper ivork in Chicago. 
"JIM SMITH, Circleville, Ohio, processor of fine canned foods of Esmeralda fame, has estab­lished an excuse to visit Notre Dame. His eldest daughter, Jacqueline, is a student at St. Mary's College. Jim, Jr., *53, h assisting his dad in 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, Jan.^Feb., 1954 29 

the canning business. His younger girl and boy 
will ultimately enjoy South Bend winter wcatlier. 
"JOE SHEEHAX, Columbus, Ohio, who sees that Ohio gets the best in highways. Is enjoying the return of his two older boys from the service, both of whom were former students at Notre Dame. His eldest son, Tom, a Lieutenant with the Paratroopers, plans to re-enter Notre Dame this coming Fcbruar>". 
"JOHN GOTAUCO, Manila, Philippine I., was present to sec his sons Al and PhiHp graduate with the Class of '53. Anotlier son is now a student at the University. After graduation this June, John stopped and paid us a short visit and was to return to Columbus on his way west. However, he did not return and I have been unable to communicaic with Inm since. John in­dicated he plans to attend our 30th Reunion. 
"Now for some news about myself. Daughter Sally, St. Mary's, *50, has presented us wth t\vo granddaughters. Our oldest son, Pat, '52, is a second lieutenant with the Corps of Engineers at Ft. Belvoir. Tom, '53, is ' an ensign with the navy, and is scheduled for duty in tlic Pacific Son Milcc b now a senior in high school and, the Registrar willing, will enter Notre Dame next fall. 
"I am sure that all of tlic above are planning to attend the 1924 Class Reunion next June-" Sincerely yours, 
ED^VARD G. CANT^\'ELL 

1Q9 R J?^? ?: ^if^'^y 
1218 City Park Avenue Toledo, Ohio 

I OOiL Jo^ i Ryan 
2434 Grenleaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois 

(Ed. note: ^\lIat the hell has happened here? First time In five years that Secretary JOHN RYAN has failed to send in a column. He can't do the job without your help. Help! Help! JC) 
IQ9 7 Steve Ronay 
2829 Appletree Lane 
South Bend, Indiana 

10O D L.ouis F. Buckley ITZ O 1253 North Central Ave. Chicago 51, Illinois 
CHRISTIE FLANAGAN informed us of the deatli of HERB SCHULZ in Port Arthur, Texas, on September 29. Herb was single. You will recall lie was an AB graduate in our class. I wTotc to Herb on June 27 letting him know how much we missed liim at the reunion since several of his friends were inquiring about him. A mass card was sent to Herb's mother witli a letter expressing the s>Tnpathy of the class. Please remember Herb in your prayers. 
Mrs. TOM GRIFFIN advises that tlie masses offered for the repose of Tom's soul were a g^'cat consolation to her and to her three sons who arc now at Notre Dame studying law. Tom, as you know, died in Knox\*ilIe, Tcnn., on July 27 just a few weeks after suffering a heart attack. A native of Indiana Harbor, Tom joined T.V.A. as Principal Attorney oi the General CounscVs Office in 1935 after serving witli a Chicago law firm. In 1944 he became solicitor and was con­cerned chiefly witli TVA's court proceedings. 
BILL DO\\'DALL's father died recently in Chi­cago. ED RAFTER and I called at the mortu­ary and expressed tlie sympathy of the class. Bill has a daughter at Rosary College. I also met WALTER HART, '29, at the mortuary. Bill is president of the Federal Alarkct Company in Buffalo, N. Y. 
I wish to call attention to an excellent article by Mar>- Agnes Boyle, the deceased wife of ANDY BOYLE, in the September 19, 1953, issue of the Ave ^faria. Tlie article was published shortly after her death and is "a mother's story of what it is to be dying of cancer." Andy has two cliildren, a daughter age II and a son age 4. He is acting head of tlie Department of Chem­istry at Notre Dame. You will recall that we extended our sympatliy to Andy on the death of his wife in our September newsletter. 
After 25 years of silence it was a real pleasure to hear from ^V'ALTER LAYNE from 82 Bay Drive, Huntington 12, N. Y. Walt writes as follows: "I tliought abooit you fellows many times during June of this year—^just as I have thought of you and Notre Dame and all the fine things it meant to us all many times during the years tliat ha\"e passed since June, 1928. However, I am one who simply cannot look back too much. 
It was all too good to be true; and I prefer to leave it that way. JOE BREIG uTote to me before the reunion and I >%'rote back saying that I would not be there and explaining it the best I could. 
"Tlie world has been quite good to me, Louie, I am married, have a little girl elex*en and a job that enables us to live as well as I have any right to expect. I am editor of 'Master 
•Detective' magazine. It is far from literature, but we do not live in a very literary world. I've done a lot of free lance writing and edited dozens of di/Tcrenc magazines. It is all in a day's work; but nothing has given me the pleasure that the campus publications gave me. 
"I hope all is well with you; and that every member of the Class of '28 has found a full measure of happiness throughout the years." 
I am sure the many classmates who asked me about Walt at our reunion will be as pleased as I am to hear from him. 
Marshall Field, President of Field Enterprises, Inc., announced the appointment of HOWARD V, PHALIN as Vice l»re5idcnt in the educational division and general sales manager for the eastern half of the United States. The Educational di­vision publishes the World Book Encyclopedia and Cliild Craft. Despite his many business re­sponsibilities Howie has always found time to help out on numerous assignments I have given him for the class. 
JOHN LYONS played an important role in the Republican upset in the Chicago judicial election on November 2. John was second high among the Republican candidates who were elected to the Superior Court here. 
JOE BREIG's new book "A Halo for Father" (Bruce) has received excellent reviews. No doubt, you read the reference to this book in Jim Arm­strong's column in the November-December Alum­nus. Joe, who is assistant managing editor of the Cleveland Catholic Universe Bulletin and a col­umnist for the Ave ^larta, has five cliildren. 
I noticed in the Indianapolis paper where BOB GRANT appeared before the Indiana Toll Road Commission in opposition to plans for construct­ing the road across Notre Dame and St. Mary's property. 
Father XfARK FITZGERALD gave an excel­lent talk on the labor situation in Europe at an Employment Security institute at Notre Dame in 
TULSA—^Alumni gathered to obser\c Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. 
30 Notre Dame A!umnus, Jan.-Feb.^ 1954 
JAMES J. SHERRY, JR., '36 

Starting to work for General Motors Corp., Chevrolet Division in Tarrytownj N. Y., James J. Shern', '36, has recently been promoted to Assistant Director of Purchases, Buick Motor Division. 
In 1941 he was drafted in the Armed Forces and separated in 1945 as a Major after four and one-half years of service in this country and overseas. After returning home from World War II, Jim was transferred from Chevrolet, Tarrytown, to Cliev­Tolet's Central Office in Detroit. Two years later in October, 1947, he was sen t to General Mo tors' Purchasing and Salvage Section and became Assistant Director of the section in 1949. 
Jim married Miss Grace Rogers in Manchester, N. H., in November, 1942, and they have three children, Kathleen, James, III, and Deborali. His father, James, Sn, is also a Notre Dame alumnus and a member of the 1905 class. 
Having been extremely active in alumni and Foundation affairs, Jim was general chairman of the Detroit Club's Universal Notre Dame Night 
October. Tlic talk was based on his observations in England, France, Scandinax'ia, Germany, Italy and Su-itzcrland. I also spoke at the ND insti' tute. The complete text of my talk on "Objec­tive Use of Facts" was published in tlic November issue of the International Association of Personnel in EmpIo>-mcnt Security News. 
Our classmate^ continue to be prominent in all Notre Dame Alumni activities. The following arc presidents of local Alumni clubs: STEVE WOZ­NIAK (Akron), CHARLEY LYNCH (Los An­geles), JOHN IGOE (Columbus), GEORGE SARGUS (Ohio Valley), AL SCHSURR (San­dusky) and LEO McINTYRE (Eastern Pa.)­
ED BRENNAN is carrying on in my old job as a member of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
We have two Notre Dame Foundation Gov­ernors: JOHN WINBERRY (New Jersey) and TOM BYRNE (Ohio). JOE MORRISSEY con­tinues as a member of the Board of Directors and First Vice President of the Alumni /Vss'n. 
Our Vice President for the South, JACK a\N -IZiVRO, had a Notre Dame Alumni party at his ranch. Green Pastures Hereford Farm, which is just north of the cit>' of Jackson. It resulted in the founding of the Misslssippi-Notre Dame Alumni Association. Jack reports that BOB EVANS of Vicksburg, Mississippi, was present with his wife. Bob has a married daughter and a son at the University of Mississippi. Bob is with his father in his lumber and building ma­terials business, the Mississippi Lumber Co. He hopes to return for the 30th Class reunion. 
Please keep me advised of additional class­mates who should be mentioned in connection with Alumni activities. 
WALT TOUSSAINT spent the first three weeks of October in Europe on business for the Car­bide & Carbon Chemicals Co. of So. Charleston, 
W. Va. He \*isited London, Brussels, Antwerp, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt and Munich. Walt has a daughter who is a freshman at St. Mary's of the ^Voods. Dr. FR/VNK HEGARTY also has a daughter starting there this year. 
SWEDE SCHROEDER told me at the Navy game that he visited JI\t BERRY who is fann­ing near Stanley, N. Y. Jim has five children. He promised Swede that he would be back for our 30th reunion. This Is the first report I have had on Jim, so I am very grateful to Swede for the nc^^-s. 
JOHN GAUGaVN has moved to 319 South Shawnee St., Pasadena, Tex. Lt. Col. TO.M NOON is now located at 1LC.A.S. Cherry Point, North Carolina. 
J/\MES T. PARKER is now living In Vicks­burg, Miss., at 403 Locust St. BOB EVANS reports that Jim is still in tlie ranks of the bachelors and is on leave from Consolidated Edison Co. 

BILL DAILY is now in Atlanta, Ga., where he is Branch Manager of the Employees* Mutual Insurance Co. of Wisconsin. AL HANS is assist­ant to the Manager of Safety, Standard Oil Co., In Chicago. GEORGE MURRIN is engaged in general practice of law In Houston, Tex. I ^vish to thank CYP SPORL and RUBE MOMSEN for bringing us up lo date on these lawyers. Cyp, by the way, returned to Notre Dame for the Georgia Tech game. 
X see ED McGUIRE regularly as we both have olHccs in the Bankers Building' at 105 W. Adams St., in Chicago. Ed is attorney for the U. S. Securities & Exchange Commission in the Chicago regional office. He has two children. Ed re­gretted very much that he was unable to make the reunion due to sickness in his family. 
JIM AVHITE was In the *28 section at the Navy game. Jim operates an insurance claims service in South Bend. He Is married. He saw his old roommate, DAN JfOORE, recently. Dan has 3 son at ND and a daughter at St. Mary's and 7 other children at home. He is with ^Vestem Electric. Jim also reports that he sees JOHNNY NYIKOS (Che%To!et) and IKE VOE­DISCH (real estate). Jim mentioned that his old pal BULL JOLISKY, is now a beer baron at Steubenvllle, Ohio. Jim and Bull get to­gether at a game each year. Jim also told me that he saw £D McKEOWN in September when one of Ed's daughters was registering at St. ifary's Academy. Ed and his family are no%v living throughout the year at their home at Dune Acres, Chesterton, Indiana. He commutes 
to Chicago where he has his latv office m the 
Bankers BIdg., where I am located. I recently 
purchased a car from the McKeo\vn Motor Sales 
(Chrysler-Plymouth) which Ed ou-ns. 
ART AHLLER, FRANK AfcC.\RTHY and BOB EGGEMAN attended the Georgia Tech game. Art is still practicing law In Fort Wayne, Ind., \vlth offices in the Lincoln Bank Tower. He has two children, a daughter age 9 and a son age 6 years. Art sees HENRY HASLEY and FRED SCHOPPAUN daily as they are also practicing law In Ft. Wayne. Art made the following comment on our reunion: "Since re­turning from that unforgettable Class Reunion, I have started on numerous occasions to convey to you and the rest of the members of the committees in charge my Immeasurable thanks for a truly great time. It was a tremendous success in every phase and In my opinion wll reflect. 
NE^V YORK—Featured speakers at the Greater Metropolitan New York CIuVs Com­
celebration in 1953. He also served 
munion Breakfast were Mayor-Elect Robert F. Wagner, Jr., and Father Robert Green, 
as a director of the Notre Dame Alum­
M.M., recently released from prison in Communist China.­
ni Club in Detroit. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.'Feb., 1954 31 

to all who contributed some cfTortj a lasting page in theirs and our memories.*' 
I had occasion the other day to refer to the publications, "Who's Important in Medicine'* and the **Dircctory of Medical Specialists'* and noted the name of DR. SAM ROMANO. It gave nic the information I have been attempting to secure for 25 years concerning Sam. He is clinical professor of surgery at Louisiana State Univer­sity School of Medicine. After receiving his 
M.D. from Johns Hopkins, he sen'cd as a teacli­ing fellow in surgery' at the University of Min­nesota. He is 3 diplomate, ^Vmcrican Board of Surgery and a fellow in the American College of Surgeons and the author of contributions to medical and surgical journals. Sam is married and has two children. He has oflices in the Perc Marquette BIdg., Sew Orleans, La. 
Father MARK FITZGER.\LD, C^.C , gave me a picture of Dr. and Mrs. JOE SULLIA^^\N, '29, and thctr two daughters which Father took in London this summer, Joe is head of the U. S. Dept. of Public Health in Great Britain. Hb address is American Embass>', Grosvenor Square, London, England. Vou will remember Joe as being from Holyokc, Mass., when he was at school. 
I met a number of the classmates at the Georgia Tech and Na\"\' games, including FRANK CREADON, PAUL fOBIN» BILL MURPHY, ED QUINN, VINCE WALSH, GEORGE KEL­LEY, FATHER JIM McSHANE, JOHN BRAN­NON, GEORGE COX'ERT, JOHN IGOE, AUGIE GRAMS, FRANCIS (SWEDE) SCHROE­DER, JIM WHITE, JIM ALLEN, HOWIE PHALIN, ED RAFTER and JOE BRAUNS­DORF. We had some great sessions at Gate 4 and at the Alumni Ser\'ice Booth before and after the games. Father MULCAIRE joined Vince ^Valsh and me and our wives for dinner follo^ving the Georgia Tech game. 
Other classmates mentioned thev had seen FRANK DONOVAN and JOE MORRISSEY at these games, but I missed them. We were all pleased to see Joe's boy, Roctne Morrissc}*, in action on the football field at the Naxy game. 
Fatlier McSHANE advised mc that he had the privilege of baptizing ELMER \\TNN in Dcn\"cr in October, Father was cnroutc to Mil­waukee where he was to conduct a retreat. 
SWEDE SCHROEDER mentioned that in addi­tion to seeing JIM B.ARRY in New York, he also wited JOE DcBOTT in Gcnc\-a. Joe is still single. Swede also reports that STAN GRIN­AGER is operating a ver>- successful hotel and restaurant at Becker, Minn. Swede, who is prac­ticing law in Detroit Lakes, Minn., has five children including a son who is a senior at ND. He has his own plane and flies to the games as he did to our reunion. He was grounded in LaCrossc on his iray to the Na\->* game. 
Tlic Alumni Scr\-icc Booth meeting spot after the game also gave me the opportunity to sec men in other classes whom wc knew at Notre Dame, including BILL NEFF, '29, and TOM DUNN, *27. Bill Neflf, who is principal of the Mandan, N.D., High School, recently had a history- text book published by Bruce. The title is "World History for a Better World.** TOAf DUNN, who is practicing law in Aforris, III., was asking about BILL COYNE. Bill is still in Washington as an attorney for the Housing and Home Finance Agenc\*. 
Our Vice-President for the West, ART CANTY, cracked tlie western iron curtain by sending us information on several classmates about' whom wc have not had a report in years. Art met DICK ELPERS and HAL HUDSON in Los Angeles for the first time since 1928. He found tliat Dick is with KFAC, a broadcasting station in the very building in 'whicli Art's ofhce is located—5757 Wilshirc Blvd. Art's company, the Prudential In­surance Company of America, had a lunclicon re­cently celebrating the fifth anniversary of the in­stallation of their western home oflice in Los An­geles, and HAL HUDSON was representing CBS at the luncheon. Hal is general manager, pro­gram division, CBS. He is married and has three children. He has been in Southern California since 1937. 
Art also advises that MERV AGGELER is Dep­uty District Attorney of Los Angeles County and is located in Santa Monica. He had lunch a short while ago with ART PARISIEN who has three children and lives in Upland, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles. 
ED QUINN, Director of the Department of Guidance and Testing, has advised mc of additional '28 men who have sons whom he has met recently at Notre Dame. These include the sons of TOM JONES, PAT CAN*TY, NORB SEIDENSTICKER and JOHN LEITZINGER. Ed has promised to keep us advised of other '28 sons whom he meets. 
AVc have now readied the stage where wc should 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry "Red" O'Connell, '31, Chicago, and their children visit with Judge 
E. K. Jarecki after an order had been signed by which Henry adopted his wife's three children by a former marriage and she his four. Photo by Chicago Daily News. 
JOHN T. WHITELY, '44 

John T. VVhitely has been elected a Vice President of W. R. Grace & Co., 
international  industrial  and  trading^  
concern.  
He  joined  the  Statistical  Depart­ 

ment of ^V. R. Grace & Co. in 1949. In 1950 he was named an Assistant Treasurer, and in 1951 an Assistant Vice President. In October, 1953, John was elected a Director of Grace Chemical Company, a subsidiarj' of 
W. R. Grace & Co. 
He was graduated from Notre Dame with a Bachelor of Science degree in chemical engineering and received his 
LL.B. from Notre Dame in 1949. 
read tlie class notes of recent classes :o find out what the sons of '28 men arc doing. I noted, for example, in tlie 1953 column in the last Alumnus that HENRY MASSMAN, III, was graduated, from the Na\y's Officer Candidate School at New­port, R. I. 
BERNIE CAREER reports that the UVRRY CULLINEYS have tlieir fourth child and third son, born Oct. 16, 1953. Larry also has a new address, 4 X^ncyard Rd., North Haven, Conn. Bernic also mentioned that he saw FRj\NK DU­QUETTE on the train one morning recently. Frank had had a knee operation and thought it successful—should improve his golf. 
JACK ADAMS, *27, was a guest of honor at the dinner on the occasion of the lOth Annivcrsaiy* of the Catliolic Labor Alliance in Chicago. I also saw FATHER MARK FITZGERALD and Appel­late Court Justice JOHN LYONS at the affair. 
I hear from FATHER ANDY MULREANY regu­larly from St. Mar>'*s Cathedral in Austin, Texas. Father is still busy converting the Texans. He 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 
TIDEWATER—Part of the Club in attendance at the Tidewater Club's Communion Breakfast were (seated): Phil Russo, *49; Frank Amato, *52; Harry McKnight, '43; (standing): Harry Solomon, '47; Jerry McCabe, '53; Dennis CNeill, Jr., *51, and Fred Hartmann, '52. 
continues to remember the '28 men each day in his prayers and Masses. In addition to offering the Masses at the request of the class for TOM GRIFFIN, GEORGE O'BRIEN' and HERB SCmJLZ, he offered an additional Moss for each as his own contribution. 
The mail of JOSEPH M. K/\NE has been re­turned unclaimed from 55 Lathropc Ave., Bing­hamton, N. Y. Can any of you assist by sending mc bis correct address? 
Our Treasurer, JACK SHEEDY, has asked me to extend thanks to the large number of class­mates who have made contributions to the class treasur>'. His address Is 1116 Farmers Bank BIdg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa. Jack was back to Notre Dame for the Pitt game. As you know, he has a son 
at I<D. 
I trust each of you received a copy of the reprint of my article in the Sept. 5, 1953, issue of "America" entitled. **Profile of a Class: Notre Dame, 1928.'* I continue to receive inquiries and favorable comments on the class sur\'ey report from many sotircc^s. TJie following c-tcerpt from a letter from Dr. Edwin E. Witte, Chairman, De­partment of Economics, University of Wisconsin, « typical: 
"While I am not a Notre Dame man and in fact have been at Notre, Dame only on one occasion, I found the article of very great in­terest. Notre Dame being a University which has a great national appeal vcr>' probably has a somewhat more selected group of students than the great Midwestern state Universities. That tiventy-five years after college graduation the Notre Dame men arc financially ahead' and more civic and religious minded than has been shown for college graduates generally is a pretty good tribute to the work that is being done at your alma mater. While your article is of greatest interest naturally to Notre Dame men, it has a good deal of value for educators generally.*' 
I made a further analysis of the data collected in the 1928 Class sur\-cy for a report to a com-mh'.cc of the /American VaViiical Science ^Vssocia­tion on "Citizen Participation in Politics." 
The analysis indicates that 12.4% of the class­mates who have held political office arc predom­inantly la\4->cr< although individuals in retail trade and public utilities are also well represented in this group. A relatively higher proportion of economic and history- majors had held political ofhce than were represented in the total class generally. TIic college grades of the politicians were as a whole better than those of all class­mates. As would be expected, a larger percent (289&) of the future office holders participated in campus politics than did all classmates (19%). Similarly 32% of the future politicians held an office in a campus organization at Notre Dame in contrast to only 19% of all classmates. Not as many poh'ttcians currently rccen'c daily and week­ly Communion as do all '28 men. Fifty-seven percent of the active politicians are Democrats in contrast to only 39% of all classmates. 
In order to assist me in making accurate com­parisons of my study with the findings in the Time sur\'ey of college graduates, Time made a cross tabulation of their data for all male gradu­ates in the 40-49 age group for my use. 
U'c wish to thank JIA( DOYLE, Secrelar>- of the Class of I93t, for his words of praise for the 1928 reunion in bis class column In the Nov.-Dcc. Alumnus. I have already been called upon by two class secretaries to assist them in making plans for their reunions this year. FRjVNK CREiVDON has been requested to assist the 25-year class at Loyola University in plan­ning its reunion along the lines successfully em­ployed by our class. 
When I saw GEORGE COVERT at the Na%-y game, he suggested that I prepare a list iden­tifying each of the *28 men in the class picture taken on the library steps at the reunion. I will attempt this project soon and if I am suc­cessfut in completing it, I will send the list to each of you. You may obtain a copy of this class picture by sending §1.00 to James DuBois, University Photographer, Notre Dame, Ind. He can also supply prin:s at $1.00 each of the Class of 1928 reunion march (plus band) to the Alumni Banquet which appeared on the cover of the July-August Alumnus. 
Our President, FR/\NK CREADON, has pre­pared an excellent *'Reunion Reel" from films taken and donated to the class by VINCE WALSH and ART DENCHFIELD. Frank is hav­ing a copy of this film of the 25-year reunion made so it will be available for use on a loan basis by classmates. Please write to Frank at 194 Addison Rd., Riverside, Illinois, if you wish to borrow the iilm to relive what BOB HAMIL­TON refers to as "those never-to-be-forgotten daj-s.'* The film will be made available in ex­change for some class news for this column. 
The following note was received from BILL CRONIN: "I heard from BOB HAMILTON that CHARLIE SHEL.\NSKEY is with the State Department of Public Works and Hves out at Westhampton, L. I.; also, VIC ZIMMERMAN moved to the country, upstate, near Kinderhook, 
N. Y.—lucky guy." 
Donald J. Plunbctt 

1929 Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Larry Stauder, Acting Secy. Engineering Building Notre Damcy Indiana 
25 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE 11-12-13 

From LARRY STAUDER: If your family is like that of the I^rry Stauders you wonder at the speed at which 1953 passed. It bad its highlights—not as many, perhaps, as it could have had. In looking back a year hence we trust that you can include pleasant memories of a JUNE CLASS REUMON with your former roommates and close friends of student years at Notre Dame. Past experience has indicated that attendance at the 25th Reunion is larger than for any other. You will have your best opportunity to see more of your class­mates on that occasion. The planning time is al­ready upon us. 
DON PLUNKETT who did so well in making arrangements for the 1949 reunion is back at the top spot and will be calling upon many of you soon to lend support. We all know that success­ful reunions do not just happen. 
To the wives, wc mention the family picture display that was so popular last June for the Class of '28. Some one hundred or so family pictures were assembled and displayed. 
Special groups like engineers, ]aiv>'crs, archi­tects, medics, glee club and others may arrange 
Daniel D. Halpin, '31, has been named chaiirman of the Sales Managers Commit­tee of Radio-EIcctronics-Televtsion Manufacturers A5sociatioii< 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 3S 

Comtnunion Breakfasts and other meetings within the reunion program. Details will folloiv*. 
Wc trust that you have put the dircclor\' re­cently mailed to you to good use. 
KARL MARTERSTECK, we congratulate you on your appearance among those proposed as Directors of the Alumni Board. If our ballot counts, you are in. "DOC" DOUGHERTY recently sent us a note from Germany. He is currently \isiting steel plants in Europe. 
If you have been hearing rumors that stu­dent spirit and loyalty to a football team of champions has been outstanding, take it from those who saw it first hand, *'it was great.** ^^'c ^^'ill see you in Junc. 
109 A Devcre Flunkctt I Tall Social Science BIdij. Notre Dame, Indiana 
vA^ v James T. Doyle 
• ' ^ • 6457 North Bell Ave. Chicago 45, Illinois 
By the time you read this issue of the Alum­nus you should all have had a very ^ferry Christmas and Happy New Year. Among the many lofty Xc^v Year's resolutions you have made, I hope you included one to write JIM DOYLE at least once a year. 
JOHN HICKEY, in his letter of July 15, 1952, mentioned being able to peer across the Pittsburgh canyons and sec CIL\RLIE SPIXELLI, the super-sleuth, busy whh a magnifying glass surrounded by stacks of old pictures, files and letters while he sought out missing heirs to fabu­lous estates. Charlie has done a good job ac­cording to the Chicago papers Saturday, Nov. 28th. After a trip to St. Louis he was able to establish tliat a St. Louis woman w*as entitled to a handsome piece of change out of an estate he was working on. Congratulations Charlie. 
The grim reaper has called another *3Ier to his reward. I received a note from the widow of JOHN JOSEPH CONLEY saying he had died suddenly November 13, 1953. John u-as from Bloomington, Illinois and a graduate of the Col­lege of Engineering. After his graduation he was associated ^v-tth the Sollitt Construction Co., of South Bend and then super\'ised construction of several count>' bridges while with the State of Illinois Highway Department. For the past few years he operated his own consulting engi­neering firm in Bloomington. Mrs. Conley writes as follows: 
Dear Mr. Doyle: 
"I don*t know whetlier or not you were per­sonally acquainted with my husband, J. Joseph Conley, but since he graduated from Notre Dame Engineering School, Class of 1931, I thought you would be interested in receiving this clipping from the local papers. He had a great many friends among the Alumni of Notre Dame, whom I should like this information to reach. Perhaps you would be kind enough to mention his sad death in your next Alumnus column. 
"Joe, as he was known to his Notre Dame associates, was cnjo>'ing wonderful success here as a Consulting Engineer. Wc have three lovely children, two boys and one girl, all at home. He had no heart trouble as far as we knew, and worked the day before his dcatli as tisual. Coronar>' Thrombosis was the apparent cause of his sudden passing and, of course, it was a ter­rible shock to all of us. I shall appreciate your sending this sad neA\'s through the proper dian­
nels for the .'Mumnus Editor.** 
Sincerely, 
Mrs. J. Joseph Conley 1109 N. Prairc St. Bloomington, Illinois 

Please remember Joe in your prayers together with other iJassmates who have received their JOE CONLEY, BOB NEYDON and CHARUE MANTs'IX. 
As you can recall from the *3I notes in the .-Mumnus I have had Masses said and sent Mass cards to the widows of several classmates during the past two years. My source of funds for this has been the unexpended balance of funds col­lected in Farley Hall during the 1931 reunion. As tills is nearly depicted I am asking contribu­tions from you for a class fund to provide for Masses as well as a fund to defray the cost of promoting our reunion in 1956. 'W'hatever amount you choose to send will be fine. At the same time enclose a neu-snote. Tliese may be sent either to my home or ofHce which Is 209 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 4, Illinois. 
The home football games brought some news of *3Iers. At the Na\*v game I sat a few rows in front of KELLY PO^\TRS, '32, and his wife, from Milwaukee. They were sta>-ing at CLARENCE FUTTER's home in South Bend and during the evening decided to call ED SHEERAN at Long Beach, California. I also saw CLEM THEISEN, '32, FRANK BUTORAC, JACK SCHMITT and his son, Tom, a 6* 2" Loyola Academy basketball prospect, MATT GARRIGAN and his wife ^vho decided to spend Saturday night at the Morris Inn. GIL SEAMAN and his family and GENE VALLEE. At the Georgia Tech game Gil Seaman met the President and Vice President of the Areola, Illinois Notre Dame Club, TOM MONAHAN and PAUL GRANT. Gil suggested they look for me at the Alumni Information Booth, but I happened to be 90 miles away that day. 
Alderman NICK BOHLING appeared on TV November 14th in an attempt to explain his needling the mayor. Nick made the Penns>*K'ania game, but could not come up with any news because of the bad weather. However, one of the reliable *31ers came up with a "Class Sec­retary*s Delight** letter. I had written JOHN BURNS to help me out on news of our eastern classmates many of whom appear to be losing tlielr power of dictation. 
Dear Jim: 
"Vour letter didn't give me mucli time to get working on news of the boys in this area—that November 30th deadline sorta scared me. Since time's a-wastin* I'll try to get some information off to you pronto! 
''Received the Alumnus last night and was grieved to learn of the deaths of Bob Neydon and Charlie Mannuc. I knew Bob vcr>* well and remember his Infectious chuckle and his won­derful disposition. I'm going to tr>- and get a note ofT to his family. Wasn't Charlie a pitcher on the Varsity? May God rest their souls. 
"Had telephone calls from ED (SLIM) MAHON 
John A. Kicner, '32, his >vife Elaine, and their children, Mary, Paul, Johnny and Michael visit the campus on Founder^s Day. 
and ED CUNNINGH/VM yesterday. Slim was busily preparing for a Thanksgiving dinner at his Dad*s home for all the members of the family. I know they will have a grand time. Ed Cun­ningham recently moved from Milford, Delaware to Central Valley, N. Y., about 40 miles out­side New York City. His two oldest boys arc at school in Newburgh; the three younger boys arc attending the local school. \'irginia, his wife, looks after Ellen until tlic bo>'5 return and take over tlic house. Ed finds mudi to do around the new home. DICK BARBER is now in Miami, having cliauffeured his Mother and Dad there last \v-cek. However, the Judge expects to fly back In time to do the turkey car\*ing for his brood. All the boys and their families are in good health. 
"Weather conditions ruined the planned trip to the Notre Damc-Pcnn game this year—and just when I had received GOOD tickets for the battle. SLIM MAHON had tickets but a spe­cial investigation in which his aid was required prevented the trip. Dick Barber had 50-yard line scats, hotel accommodations and well meant plans, but cancelled them. I had intended driv* 
eternal rward. I am writing FATHER JOHN FORT AVAYNE—The club's Communion Breakfast was held on December 6th, with the 
J. MARGRAF, C.S.C., pastor of St. Mari-'s Church, Soutli Bend, Indiana, to say Masses for 
Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Auxiliary Bishop of Fort Wayne, as guest speaker. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan,-Feb., 1954 
ing to Phllly with a party of four, but the freak 5no\^'stom made driving too hazardous so we settled for the radio broadcast and the pic­tures on Sunday. TIM TOOMEY, *30, who made the trip on the Nc\»i* York Notre Dame Club Special told me the trip was a 'social suc­cess* with the Ne^v Englanders and New Jcrscy­ites joining the New York crowd to have a grand trip. Perhaps some of the boys who made the trip will be able to fill in with the doings of that day. 
".Met OLLIE SCHELL at one of the ND club meetings who told mc he meets up with CHARLIE 'RED* McALEER, BILL Mc.\LEER, TED LEE and TERRY AVH.\RTON—all of AI­toona—once in a while and that they are all well. Ollic is now a C.P.A. in Tyrone, Pa,, and doing exceptionally well. Met PAT CANNY at the meeting too, who gave me the lo^vdown on my old sparring partner SPIKE Mcf\DAMS. Pat is at present working in New York for Erie 
R. R. We had quite a laugh over recollections of JOHNNY MURPHY and PAT O'HOULI­HiVN—our ring names of years ago. It was good to read the letter from CH/\RLIE POW­ERS in the *31 column. Long time no see Charlie, but we did have many a good gabfest at the ND-Army gatherings. Met DUTCH RIDLEY in Philly for the Pcnn game in *52 for a most pleasant surprise. Dutch is looking fine and has himself a lovely wife. 
"Talked with JIM GALL.\GHER during the summer months. He is now living in Hacken­sack, N. J. Jim and his family are well and he is definitely planning on the 25th reunion. Also had a pleasant surprise in meeting JOHN O'DONNELL, '30, while attending Mass one Sunday in Hohokus. John and I were experts in maneuvering the food carts from the old kitchen in back of Carroll Hall to the Minims' dining room, especially when it snowed. Haven't seen or heard of GORDIE SxVLMON, the piano playing wonder, since our 20th get-together. And how about BOB MASSEY, anvone ever meet up with the genial Bob? JOHN*N*Y LISICKI is an­other who went Into retirement after the 20th, how come, John? You must remember how well Barber, ^[ahon and I entertained your family w*hlle wc were gathering ice cubes a few years back. Friends In Auburn inform me that GEORGE SHAMON is up and coming in that city. Said hello with GIL PERRY when I reached Wltkes-Barrc. He has a picture to prove he was the best dressed man to attend the '52 ND-Pcnn game. 
"JIM MULV^\NEY and I correspond to keep in touch with activities in our areas. Jim makes a trip to New York in the spring, at which time he checks on my doings. I note that he attended the Chicago Club golf tournament— was he by any diancc caddying??? 
"There was a time when I w*ould meet BOB RICK and ART FLYNN at the club meetings. Haven't seen them in ages. Not many 'old timers* get to club meetings these days; seems as though the younger bo>'s rule the roost. Do you find that in your club actintles! All the boys in this area seem to be pointing for the 25th reunion. After the grand Job done by the class of '28 wc really should be getting started on a definite program for the gathering. I'll be glad to cooperate in any way I might be able to help, Jim. 
"Tliat's about it for now, Tlianks for your letter and do remember me to your family and any of the bo>-s in the Chicago area." 
Best, 
John 
Of all the Pcnns>'K'anian5 you mention, John, only one, GIL PERRY, has come through with news. Get busy boj's. 
I met WALT CVHILL on the street tlie other day. He and his family arc fine. He gave a good report on BILL LE/VHY (who when he goes out of town and sees a few 'Slcrs should pick up the phone or send me a note), and also on EDDIE RY/\N whom he saw at the Na\y game. JIM McQUAID was in Chicago October" 25 th and telephoned. 
HENRY G. (RED) O'COXNELL and his charming wife and family made a ^vondcrful family group in a picture taken at court pro­ceedings where each adopted the other's children. 
JOSEPH H. MULQUEEN, '40 
Joseph H. Mulqueen, '40, is the originator and Managing Editor of a new magazine called NEW. This is the first magazine in America brought out for the express purpose of listing new inventions available for sale to manufacturers. Not only does NEW picture^ describe and cost estimate new inventions, it lists the outright sale or royalty lease arrangement de­sired by the respective inventors. 

The first issue of this quarterly magazine came off the presses in Oct­ober and the number of well-known American corporations that have sub­scribed to it have raised eyebro\vs of even the most experienced publishers. Circulation is over 5,000 with a ma­jority of subscribers in top level in­dustrial management and with a growing list of inventors as well. 
Since doffing his Marine Major's role in 1946, Joe Mulqueen has spent 6 years in the publishing business and is a former executive with both LIFE and QUICK magazines. 
Married to a Philadelphia girl in 1941, Joe is the proud father of 6 children—evenly divided between boys and girls. 
Red went from four to seven children in seven 

months. (Photo in this issue of ALUMNUS.) 
AL STEPAN phoned recently after seeing 

DAN HALPIN in New York. Dan has made 
one of the biggest TV hotel installations at the 
Statler in Los Angeles. DR. BUCKY O'CON­
NOR and his wife were guests of AI Stepan at 
the Iowa game. They spent four days at the 
Morris Inn, while Bucky on his first visit back 
to the campus visited priests and friends at ND. 

AI saw JOHN FORD (RED) MEAGHER from 
Mankato, Minn., at one of the games. Red 
has a son who is an ND freshman. No doubt 
some of you recall when Red put on his act 
on the second floor of Howard Hall. It seems 
as though Red was racing a paper weight down 
the corridor when VINCE PONIC took over 
consoling Red and protecting the onlookers when 
. . . Need I go further, Vince? Remember when 
FATHER MARGRAF came upstairs. It was 
shortly before Sunday night supper, 
DON OTOOLE sent the follou-ing note: "I have just returned from a convention where I met a banker who operates a bank in Sturgis, Michigan. I learned from him the sad ne^vs that Bob Neydon died about two months ago after some eight or ten months illness. I believe his difficulty ^v•as cancer. You may already know of this, but I wanted to be sure that you did receive word. The banker tells me that Bob left five children, and that his wife ,is teaching school again. 
"I wish I had more news to report to you, but all I can say is that I spent a very delight­ful t%vo days at the campus during the middle of the summer, loafing at the Morris Inn and playing golf, and visiting with some of my cx­teachcrs. I can assure you that is a swell t^vo or three-day \-acation. I also took in the Georgia Tech game last Saturday, but did not run into any of my classmates. Again I want to con­gratulate you on the job you're doing as secre­tary. I wish I could do more to help you. AVith kindest regards, I am 
Yours very truly," Don 

I have sent notes to HARRY KENNEDY in South America and FATHER DUFFY in Seattle and hope to have something soon. I wrote ED La BARTHE and he came through with a fine letter. 
Dear Jim: 
"I received your letter, and first of all I want to congratulate you for the 'award* of class secretary at which I see you are doing a fine job. JERRY CROUXEY has come do;%-n to Mex­ico t^vice in the past t^vo years and I've had long talks with him about campus memories and Notre Dame men. From AI Stepan I had a long distance call a couple of months ago, and I was expecting his eldest son to come down here, but later had a letter from his wife saying that the boy couldn't come. 
"If it interests you, the dope about me, here it goes: I have four children, two boys 12 and 13, and two smaller girls. The boys, since the be­ginning of the year, are in St. Thomas Alilitary Academy, St. Paul, Minn. They stayed for haif a term in summer camp and then came home. Last September I went with my wife as far as San Antonio and then left them in the plane to Chicago and St. Paul. 
"The last of the Notre Dame men (outside of Mexico) I have seen is GENE CALHOUN. I was in Los Angeles, called him up and he took me up to his house to meet his charming family. I was playing golf with LUCIO MUNAIN and he told me about the Alumni Reunion last June where he met you. I have not seen BILL KfOR-PHY in the last few weeks, but I know he is fine. 
**I*m sorry this year tve have not been able to get together as we did last year when Ludo, Bill and I flew to San Antonio and Austin to see the Texas-Notre Dame game. I have been at Notre Dame only once since I graduated. That was in summer about three years ago, and nat­urally I hope and intend to be there for the 25-year reunion. 
^fy best wishes to you and your family, and 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.'Feb., 1954 35 

my best regards to all tlic XD *cx-boys* that you see.*' Sinccrelv, ED La BARTHE 
I %vrotc ED SHEERAN to take over as re­gional secretar\* for the So. Cal game, but in the over 90,000 attendance it was difHcuIt to spot TOM ASHE and many other '31crs who were there. 
, Dear Jim: 
*'Thanks for yours of Xo\ ember 23. It is good to hear from you and we wish that you would find an excuse to write more often. Apparently, 
Keliy forgot to tell you that bis call originating 
in Soutli Bend readied here one Saturday eve* ning at 10:00 P.M. Lydia answered the phone and Kelly and Clarence were quite amused to hear that I had already hit tlic sack. Weekends when one can get to bed early are few and far between so wlien they do occur, they arc doubly appreciated. 
"My wife's sister and her husband are flying in tonight from Tokyo, so it will be impossible for me to attend the rally at the Biltmorc Hotel. Should I sec or hear of any of the fel­lows of '31 at the game tomorrow, I will put a postscript on this letter before posting it. 
"I see ED MASSA almost ever>' holiday season. Ed's home is in Hay\*'ard so he and Grace usu­ally come to see us when we arc with my folks in Berkeley at Christmas time. Ed is in tlic in­surance business and doing ver>' well. Last sum­mer on our xvay to Banff and Lake Louise, wc stopped at Great Falls, ^fo^t., and bad a pleas­ant visit with LEN REG.AX, '33, and his wife, Rosemary, who was Roscmarj- Gies of St. ^^ary's. On our way home we stopped at Kalispel, Mon­tana, where we were royallv entertained bv 
N. M. (BUD) GIES and his'uife, Jean. They and their cliildren took time out from their busx* schedule to show us around Glacier Park. Bud. who was of tlie class of '31 has not lost a bit of his flare for a good time and enjoys life immensely. * 
••You probably remember LOU BERARDI who started in '27 but graduated in '30 ahead of us. I sec him frequently at club afl'airs in Los Angeles. Lydia and our two girls arc looking forAt-ard with me to another trip to the campus in 1956 for tlie 25-ycar reunion. Tliey all join mc in extending to you and your family all good wishes." 
Sincerclv, 
Ed. 

"Il-30-'52. P.S.: Saw none of the boys from '31 at the game." 
How about a note from westerners on the rally at the Biltmorc and tliose you saw at the game? 
I have a few months before the next ALUM­NUS deadline so plcaFe note on your cralendar for a Januar>' or Febniar\- letter to JIM DOYLE­Don't forget my request for a ^fass and Re­union Promotion Fund. All donations deductible and cheerfully accepted. 
109 9 James K. Collins ITJ A 3336 Kenmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
JOHN MATOUSEK has been promoted to Vice President and General Manager of the Baker Kaulang Company in Cleveland wbicli manufactures industrial trucks and tractors. He has been in cliarge of manufacturing with the company since 1949. 
ED KOLSKI has been appointed Assistant Su­perintendent of tlie Division of Women's and Children's £mpIo>'mcnt of the Illinois Department of Labor. Ed has also been active in fraternal organizations in Chicago, and is a member of the Sports Officials Association of Chicago. 
Thanks to JIM BYRNE of the ND club of Detroit, I learned that RENH RENIER has been promoted to Lieut. Colonel in the Army Engineer Corps. He is a Rescr\*c Officer on active duty, and is now stationed in Tripoli, Africa. Because of his assignment, he is serving at this station as a major. 
LAURENCE WINGERTER, '28 

The new president of the American Transit Assoc, is Laurence Wingerter, '28, of San Antonio, Tex. Larry, a native West Virginian who heads the San Antonio Transit Co,, came to Texas in 1942 and built the San An­tonio bus line into one of the most outstanding in the country. He has taken an active interest in civic affairs and has served as president of the San Antonio Chamber of Commerce. 
• Larry is also president of Studer's Inc., a large photographic studio and supply organization with nine stores. He has been past president of the Young Men's Board of Trade, New York City; and past president of the Indianapolis Junior Chamber of Com­merce. 
He is a member of the National De­fense Transportation Assoc, the San Antonio Safety Council, the American Management Assoc, and the Defense Orientation Conference Assoc 
OLLIE POWERS is another to join the still small list of grandfathers when his first grand­child was bom to his daughter . Gail and her husband early in November. 
FLO MCCARTHY has gone back to the raU­road business, hav*ing recently taken the position of Assistant to the Vice President in charge of public relations of the Chesapeake Railroad. 
Wc were ver\* sorr\' to hear of the death of WALT SULLIVAN recently, and wish to extend the deepest sympathy of the Class to his wife and family. Kindly remember him in your prayers. 
JOHN E. HOCKWALT was recently promoted to the post of assistant general manager of gen­eral accounting at Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. of .\kron, Ohio. 
WILLARD J. CROXALL, director of research for Summer Chemical Company, has been elected to the board of directors. Summer Chemical is an operating subsidiary* of Miles Laboratories, Inc. 
109 0 Toscph A. McCabe I T^ J 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
By the time you read this, you will have long since rcad-:-but I hope not forgotten—the Class Lcllcr sent out late in 1953 to each '33er. 
.Also, by the time I read this in the Alumnus, I will know whether or not our plans for dig­ging up more names and news for the column will have proved successful. 
So I'm rather writing this about a future time and state of mind—somewhat like this scientific­tion that is growing 50 popular. And it is my fondest prayer that my future state of mind will be a lot happier about the class column. I'm sure from what some classmates have said that you arc all hoping that the column has more news in it, too. 
But Just hoping isn't enough. Take YOU, for instance. You're reading this column right now . . . have you done enough—heck, have you done ANYTHING to make it more news>*? Have you sent in the name of your new baby, or—we sure arc,. moving along, men—your newest grandchild, whicliever may apply? Have you sent in the word about your new promotion, or cliange of address, or whatever else you've done lately that your classmates miglit like to hear about? 
No? THEN DO IT NOW! 
It's my hope that this will be the last class column that's done at the last minute, with a lot of "scientifiction" dreamed up by your cvcr­loWng secretary' to fill out some space. And if you'll all take about 20 minutes a month to drop us a line, it very easily could be the last such column. 
However, since it is (wc hope) the last of its kind, I'm going to seize the opportunity to say a (ew words on a such subject I've kind of neglected to wTite you about lately—^Tlie Blessed Mother. Reason I take Mary as my topic— outside of the fact that I like to talk and write about Her—is that as you all knov^^, this is the Marian year, as so declared by Pope Pius XII recently. 
At our Cliicago Club Communion Breakfast on December 6, FATHER M.ATT WALSH, the be­loved former president, whom we were lucky enough to get as guest speaker, also said some memorable things about Mary, and I'm -going to borrow the phrase he used to introduce the sub­ject—^"What is more fitting a topic, and what more suitable audience to discuss the topic of the Blessed Mother, than a gathering of her sons —the graduates of Notre Dame?" Tlie point being that all who attended her school arc espe­cially indebted to her . . . and, we fer\'cntly hope, have an especial claim on her goodness and c)iarity. 
So take advantage of this Marian year. There are innumerable special blessings and graces of­fered for those who make the little extra effort needed to gain them—spiritual boons whicli can also mean material blessings for you and yours. Make the effort to get them for yourself and family! 
Once again I urge all classmates to drop a line. If you don't want to write the guy who has been sudi a pest—namely the undersigned— drop it in the lap of one of our officers . . . maybe it will ser\'e to jolt THEM into writing!! 
- TTicy include: 
GEORGE ROHRS, president—220 E. ^ d St., New York 17, N. Y., LUCIEN KEMPF, S.W. vice-president—Box 7j, Lindsey, Okla., ED MOR­lARTY, West vice-president — Holl>-%vood Turf Club, Hollwood, Calif., BERNIE LENAHAN, 
36 Notre Dame Atumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 
Chicago City Champioufalps. Thu marks - Att second such, dual championship for Max since ylm took ovcr^^thc reins at St. George in I943(IP?* 
WICHITA—The Alumni Club's Communion Breakfast, Dec. 6, was attended by (left to right): Dr. B. Leis, '34; T. Jochems, MO; Dr. B. Crowley, '28; E. A. Koester, Bishop Carroll; 
P. Donigan, '35; G. Schwarz, '25; Fr. Murphy, chaplain; Dr. D. Hagan, '43; and Frank Furstenberg, '21. 
Midwest vice-president—142G Broadway, Vinccnnes, Ind., TONY BRICK, East vice-president—Sweene>-BIdg., iV. Tonawaoda, N. V., JOHX CAHILU treasurer—213 W. First, Dixon, 111., CH^VRLIE FERRIS, scrgeant-at-arms — 201 Bellcvic^*- Blvd., Alexandria, Va., and of course your nagging sec­retar>^JOE McGVBE, Suite 852, 231 S. LaSalle, Chicago 4. III. 
I think the need for news is effectively pointed up by the fact that out of the 150 members of '33 who attended the 1953 reunion—and nearly all of them promised thcyM write—I have re­ceived a letter from one—JOE KURTH. 
I think Joe's cooperation was so outstanding Vm going to reprint his letter in full: 
Dear Joe: 
*'J«st a 'little* note to j-ou m appreciation of the work you did on our 20-year Reunion. It was great to be among the fellows again; to talk with them; to reminisce with them plus the fact that it was just 'plain fine' to be back on the campus again. Frankly, this reunion was the greatest stimulant the w*ritcr has had for some years. 
"It is my sincere hope that our silver jubilee in 1958 can find even a greater number of our classmates back on the campus. It seemed from casual observation that the 1928 class had a wonderful reunion. May I go on record that if there is anything the writer can do in assisting in a long-range preparation for our silver jubilee reunion, please get in touch with mc. 
"I have several ideas in mind, but I shall hold them for a future date. As of now, there is no desire to place myself in the \'an of things in \iew of the fact that I have been rather dormant as far as continuing contact with Noire Dame or my dassmatcs were concerned. 
"Keep up the good work, Joe, and henceforth, please do not hesitate to call on mc in whatever manner I may be of scr\-icc. 
"Hoping your and my paths shall cross many times before 1958, I remain, 
Ver>- truly yours,*' 
JOSEPH J. KURTH 

Joe lives at 2568 Green St., Apt. B, Harrisburg, Pa.—so drop him a Unc, if only to applaud htm for writing! 
That's all for now, mates—here's expressing the hope again that by the next ALUMNUS I'll have a column full of news and names. 
fiKK^i^QM^gSAZeHea^ 

n QOA Edward F. Mansfield 
• ' J ^ M-4 Kingsley Terrace iVonralk, Connecticut 
109| ; Franklyn C. Hochreiter '•3 3 1327 Pentwood Road Baltimore 12, Maryland 
lA^z A. H. Moomian I TOO 1708 Industrial Bank Bldg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
1Q^ ^ Paul Foley, Vice-President 
• ^f MacManus, John and Adams Fisher Building Detroit 2, Michigan 
Coadi VIC WOJCIHOVSKI had an undefeated [ootbsU season at Mt. St. Joseph High in Bal­timore, ^fd. 
1 09 0 Charles Ar. Callahan I T J O Sports Publicity Dept. Notre Dame, Indiana 
iPiyEAR 
Vince DeCoursey 

1939 1917 EKzabeth 
Kansas City 2, Kansas 

MAX BURNELL's football squad at St. George High of Evanston, Illinois, capped an undefeated season by iWnning both the CathoVic League and 
Richard Burke 1940 146 Paxton Drive South Bend, Indiana 
John W. Patterson, Jr. 1941 Pittsbu^h Press, Roto Section Pittsburgh 22, Pennsylvania 
William E. Scanlan 1942 400 East tilth Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
John L. Wiggins 1943 U404 Rupley Lane Dallas 14, Texas 
In reviewing the • rosters of Club Officers to serve Notre Dame Alumni Chibs throughout the nation, it appears as if the Class of '43 is of executive timber. JIAf MADIGAN heads the Little Rock, Arkansas Club; JOHN LANAHAN is President of the North Florida group; BIIX CLEMENS, the Dubuque, Iowa Club; GUS ZUEHLKE heads the Fox River Valley (Wis­consin) organization; and BOB HACKNER the LaCrosse, Wisconsin Club. In the newly formed Kansas Club FRED CANS is Vice President; BOB KEARNS is Treasurer of the Aurora, Illi­nois Club; and HARRV AfcKNIGHT is Secretary" of the Tidewater (Virginia) Club. 
In the last issue, while recapping the high­lights of the Reunion %veek-cnd, mention of the-splendid work of JERRY FEENEY, chairman, was overlooked. Jerry did a fine Job of lining-up many details in South Bend and on campus to make the week-end a delightful success. As a token of appreciation the Class presented Jerry with a' desk lighter. 
ED HANRAHAN dropped word of the opening of law offices a: 30 N. LaSalle, Chicago. The shingle reads: Hanrahan and Royal. 
\VALLY ZIEMBA spent a couple hours lit Fort Worth on November 28 scouting Southern Methodist against Texas ChrisU'an. TCU won 13-0 while, according to Dallas papers, SMIT revealed nothing to the Notre Dame scout—at the expense of the game? One of Wally's team­mates, BOB DOVE, has transferred from the-Chicago Cardinals to the Detroit Lions, which must be like going to the Yankees from the-Orioles. 
BILL MIDDENDORF is back in Fort ^Vayner after a brief stint in Decatur, Illinois. BUI Is-selling real estate in Fort ^Vaj-ne. 
JOHN J. GILLIGAN was elected to the Cin­cinnati City Council on November 3. John's­old roommate, JAMES R. CLARK, JR., has-been appointed Commbsioner of Hamilton Coun­ty. ^^^at makes this more interesting is that the two former roommates arc working on oppo­site sides of the political fence. 
10 YEAR REUNION 
JUNE n-12-13 

George BarisciUo 1944 515 Fifth Avenue 
Bradley Beach, N. J. 

By now everyone in the Class of *44 wTiose address is correct in the files of the Altmmi Office should have received a mimeographed copy of the class roster. It is to be hoped that this list *»'ill help refresh your memory (lO years 
Xotre Dame Alumnus^ Jan.-Feb., 1954 
•!S*C^s' 
d-fe. f 
-«» ^ 

.rte ^\ 
WESTERN WASHINGTON—The club's Universal Communion Sunday breakfast 
IS a long time!} with iliosc in our class; and perhaps' it has alread>' prompted some re­newal of friendships even before our big get­toget'icr next June 11, 12, 13 at XD. Time is growing short and within a very few months after receiving this issue of tlie ALUMNUS we will be campus-bound once again for the big event! 
Class President DICK DOERMER had orig­inally planned to appoint committee chairmen in the various cities to *'bcat the drums'* lor the reunion; but the early response has been so over­whelming tliat tltc event is now certain to be a huge success. 
One contingent that is aiming for 100% turn­out at the reunion is the '44 Club of Chicago-land. JACK THORNTON, prcx>- of the or­ganization, wTites a very interesting and infor­mative report on their activities. Actually, the dub got rolling in high gear a year ago when "we rejuvenated our class list and sent out in­quiries as to whether the fellows would be in­terested in getting together socially now and then. The response was favorable,** ^vxites Jack, "and we met once a month at a local restaurant 
fine turnout of alumni, wives and children. 
•—and lounge—for dinner and much social activity. 
This continued from September to June- We 
are again starting up and will meet tomorrow 
evening (Oct. 15) for the initiation of the Fall 
social season.*' *'MOX** ROGERS is Secretary 
and JACK COAKER, Treasurer. Here's a par­
tial list of men of '44 in regular attendance at 
their meetings: BILL BRADY, HERB CLARK, 
JACK COAKER, STRATTE COORLAS, 
GEORGE CRONIN, BOB DUFFY, ED DtJNI-
GAN, JOE FARiLVR, MILT FLYKE, DR. BILL 
FORD, ED GITS, JIM KANE, BILL KENNEY, 
JIM LANDGREN, HARRY LAVERY, JIM 
LLOYD, JIM McDONOUGH, JACK McS^VEE­
NEY, JACK MORAN, DICK NICKSON, TOM 
O'CONNOR, JIM PLATT, JIM RICE, CHUCK 
ROGERS, WALTER "MOX" ROGERS, FRANK 
ROMANO, GEORGE ST. GEORGE, JACK 
SEGERSON, JOE TAAFE, DR. AL THOMETZ, 
NORV TRIMBORN, FRANK VIGNOLA, 
GEORGE IV'ENDT, JIAf U'lLSOX, JIM ^VHA­
LEN, JACK AVITOUS, BOB WOLF, and HARRY 
YEATES. 
(Lot of good party boys in the foregoing list, so it should be QUITE some reunion with all 
i-i- *sal' 

 was held in Seattle with a 
that gang on hand! Wonder how many other groups will iJicck in willi perfect attendance?) 
JACK THORNTON wTitcs of others he has seen or heard from recently: BOB GAL\1N, BILL DUN'NE, JOE ELWOOD, BOB McKA-HAN, GENE PILAWSKI, BOB PURCELL, LARRY REYNOLDS and JIM CUNNINGILVM; and he reports that he has had word from TOM COSTELLO who is in Korea and now in the regular /Vrmy. 
Wc have a late report from BOB MARTINA who should get a special citation at the re­union as "The one member of the class who has helped your secretar>- most consistently with new3 for the column." Bob now has the Colo­rado franchise for a new cement wall product called "Vitro-Glazc**—and a new address, 1225 Meadows^vcet Road, Golden, Colorado. 
GRIDIRON SIDELINES .. . At the Penn game in Philly . . . JIM O'BRIEN who is now on the faculty at VilIano\-a teaching Philosophy. . . . BILL WALDRON wrapped wp in his ND '44 blanket dreaming of the beautiful June weather on the campus at our coming reunion. 
At ND for the Georgia Tcdi weekend. . . . 
FORT WAYNE—^A large crowd attended the alumni club*s Football Roundup Smoker in November. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 
cliosc New York for their honeymoon. Matter of fact» they chose the Waldorf-Astoria hotel just when all possible dignitaries were staying there. When cx-Presidcnt Truman was served with the paper to appear before an investigat­ing committee a few floors a%vay from George and Pearla, I was sure it couldn't have been anyone else but George who served him. The new couple, along with ERNIE RAUSCHER and his wife, Dottie, were dinner guests at our house, the get-together sounding more like a re­union or a pre-game rally. The cause of this was the Sunday evening football TV presentation, along with my playing all the ND records, and George and Ernie and myself trying to harmoime on the college songs. All three wives threatened to leave us with the dishes, zo ^vc turned EVERYTHING off. 
A week later we were all the guests of Ernie and Dottie at the Neiv York Athletic Chib. The Ne^v York A.C. serves a sumptuous dinner, and Ernie, ivho is a member, refused to allow anyone to pick up any of the tabs. He cien­tioned it was his hobby to collect them, so we 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Captain Don Penza {far right) presents traditional shillelagh to all had a, wonderful farc%veU party for the re­turning Shrevcport couple. And many thanks to 
Co-Captains-elcct Dan Shannon (center) and Paul Matz at football banquet. Sitting, 
Dottie and Ernie Rauscher. left to right: Coach Leahy, '31, Toastmastcr Joe Boland, '27, Jack LaveUe, '28, 
The mailman brought welcome news . . . LT. 

and Athletic Director Ed Krausc, '34. JOSEPH D. USINA took unto himself a wife, Patricia Ann Mw .. . the event took place at St. Olaf's Cathedral in Oslo, Norway .. . the date was Saturday, November 21 . . . congrat­ulations and best of luck to you and to your wife, J. D. . . . your secretary received a beau­tiful Christmas card early in December from FRANK J. CURRAN (MJ>.) with a return ad­
TOM BRENNAN who is now practicing law in went down to Silver Springs last month to visit dress of 7779 Medical Det. G. A.P.O. 227, c/o Houston and \vho promises he will Journey north­my old roomie, FRED "GODFREY" BREAfER Postmaster, New York, N. Y. . . . Frank Cur-ward from the Lone Star stale for the reunion-and his wife Mary Ellen. They have a beauti­ran is a First Lt. in the Marine Corps .. . aing. . . . JOE NEUFELD in from Green Bay ful little boy, Davey, who is our little Godchild, note from RAY BADDOUR, our treasiurer, states for the game and planning to be on tap in so naturally we are prejudiced, but he's really that out of a possible 374 dues-paying members, 
June. . . . BERNIE FLXUClNE who says all a wonderfully behaved and lovable child. He's we have received contributions from 110 .. . 
*44crs from Kansas City will be "present and only eight months old but already shows signs not too good a picture when you consider all the accounted for" in June. . . . BOB McDON-of being very intelligent . . . just like the effort that has been put behind this all-important NELL and" JOHNNY MORRIS who ditto the Godparents. Fred is in his last year of law project which is the backbone of our coming 
studies, having done the whole course in the 
foregoing as to the Detroit crowd .. . and reunion. . . . ^fELVYN P. TOMBER's address what say: arc VOU planning to be there???? evenings at the George ^Vashington University in South Bend is 509 E. Milton Street . . .

Law^ School. He graduates this coming June, and 

those who have sent in their dues this past JAMES M. COWER was ordained to the all indications are that he'll be the proud father month arc BILL GRANT, BILL WRAPE, MATTPriesthood last May 30 by Bishop Daniel J. of two children by then. 
ROMEO, E. VERNON FROST, MELVYN Fecncy of Portland, Me., for the Diocese of TOMBER, THONLAS McCOUGHEY, JOHN J. 
Afaine. Father Gower studied his theology at St. 

Another classmate, JOHN HEYVAERT, visited DOWLING, and MICHAEL J. GARRY. . . .
Augustine's Seminary in Toronto, Canada. Father New York several weeks ago, and was an over­saw JIM CLYNES, HARRY WALTERS, JOHN Gower's new address is 163 Danfortli, Port­night guest. It was great fun comparing notes O'ROURKE and others at recent New York land, Me. 

and recollecting. John owns a household appli­Club meeting . . . congratulations ~ from the Received an interesting report fronj JACK ance store in South Bend and his sales zecord class to BOB GRIFFIN who was recently en­JOHNSON, bringing us up-to-date on his where­
io a particular line had won him a rait to gaged to Miss Elizabeth ^(usante. abouts. After flying 30 missions in Europe as a New York and a weekend trip to Bermuda. He gunner on a B-24 and later serving as an in­
looks swell, married life showing up very good structor with the Air Force in Aerial Photog-on him. From Mary Agnes Grant, wife <^ Bill Grant: i^P^yi Jack returned to ND for his B.S. in "Just seems busy husbands take much additional 
Accounting. He's now associated with a Chicago And talking about marriages, another visitor going after. Sorry we are among late doers, firm selling bottle caps to soft drink bottlers and to New York this past month was GEORGE so I'll get this off for Bill. Just now we're extra bre^veries in Ohio and 'West Virginia. He mar­DESPOT of Shrcveport. George finally married busy with t^vo boys—one almost 214 years old, 
ried a lovely gal from Oklahoma and they his college-days sweetheart, Pcaria, and they and the other almost a year—and building a 
have four little ones—three boys and a girl. Jack confirms he'll be on hand for the reunion in June. Add his name to your roster; his ad­dress: 131 North staple, Marysville, Ohio. 
DICK LEON writes from Mexico City that he expects to be back for the reunion .. . also notes that the class roster does not include the following: PETE ASHBAUGH, FRANK GROVES and BOB MILFORD. Will the preceding please advbe the Alumni OHice of their present ad­dresses so they may be added to the class list and receive all data pertaining to the festivities in June. 
TIic .BEX MAMMINA's announce the arrival of a son, Joseph Ross, II, on November 8, 1953. 
Another addition for your class roster is HARRY J. SULLIVAN, whose address is Explanada No. 615, Mexico 10, D. F.. Mexico. 
One final suggestion before the wrapup: Let's ALL try to be at Notre Dame tliis June. . . . It ivill certainly be a ifcckend to rcntcmbcr— and one you'll never forgive yourself for missing!!! 

OREGON—^The club luncheon in honor of Most Rev. Loras T. Lane, '32, Auxiliary I THO 122 Tullamorc Road 
m o ^ c ^^' Lesmcz 

Bishop of Dubuque, was held in Portland, Left to right: Bill Schmitt, '10, Foundation Garden City, N. Y. 
Governor; Rev. John J. ^Valsh, '30; Bishop Lane; Re*-. Michael J. Gavin, C.S.C., presi­
It's always nice to visit and to be visited by friends of the class. My wife, Betty, and I dent of University of Portland; and Judge Frank J- Lonergan, '04, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb.f 1934 39 

ST. LOUIS—Head table at the Communion Breakfast included (left to right): Mrs. O'Neal, Club President James J. 0*Ncal, Father Thomas O'DonncII, C.S.C., guest speaker from Notre Dame, Mrs. Griffin, Foundation City Chairman John J. Griffin, Jr., Airs. Hins­man and Breakfast Chairman Oliver A. Hinsman. 
house. Biirs Advcrtislns Afanagcr for a large wholesale baker>' here in Eric, Ohio.'* 
From Bill \Vinpc: ''Sincere apologies for being so tardy wiih tlie enclosed dues. I knotv we'll all be rewarded with a big turnout for the re­union in '55. Tlianks again for your patience, and best regards to all of the class." (Bill, thanks for the dues and for tlic good words. I note that your new address is 507 North Palm, Little Rock, Arkansas. Wc certainly do hope we get the whole gang out for that reunion now only a little over a year away, and we arc working hard toward that end. See you then. Regards. Al.) 
From Lt- John Brozo, USX: "So many times I have wanted to sit down and write, but never seem to- get around to it. I like your plans for a joint reunion (the AVHOLE class of '45, including tlie XROTC). I think I was the only RO to go into the Regular Navy after World War II. I haven't seen many of the old gang since then. 
"At present I'm an exchange figliler pilot with 
Dr. and Mrs. Roy Pinelli, MO, Colma, Calif., Roy Jr., Tony, Tim, Marianne, Catherine, David and John. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Jan,-Feb.f 1954 
the 42nd Fighter Interceptor Squadron at Inter­national Airport, Park Ridge, Illinois. WII be with the Air Force for a year flying F-86's, then back to the Na^y. Wife and family have re­mained in Jacksonville, Florida. Count me in on ncct reunion. My best to J. D. USINA, and the rest of the boys." 
From Joe Romeo, brother of ^fatt Romeo: "This letter is to inform you of the whereabouts of one of your no doubt lost members of the ND class of '45, my brother, Matthew P. Romeo. I am enclosing $1 to cover Matt's dues and thought I would send you his present address so you and the Alumni Oflice can con­tact him direct from now on. I also want to send you additional information about him. 
"^fatt graduated from St. Louis University*s Medical School in 1946 and has been in the Navy ever since. He was stationed in California most of the time but is now ser\-ing in Hawaii, where he will be for a couple more years. He holds a Lieutenant's rank, is doing fine, is mar­ried and has three cliildren—two girls and a boy. Here is the present address where I hope you will have all his alumni mail sent: Dr. Matthew 
P. Romeo, 209 Plantation Drive, Honolulu 18, Ha^vaii. 
"I think this just about covers ever>'lliing. Hope this letter has helped you bring another sheep back into the fold. I plan to enter ND myself next September." (Joe, thank you very much for your though tfulncss in imting. I have noted Matt's address, as well as sent it on to Notre Dame so that the Alumni Oflice puts it into their own records. AVc'd like to w-isli you the best of luck while attending Notre Dame. Nat­urally, guided fay our own experience, we don't think you will ever regret having picked sucli a school as Notre Dame. Again, good luck, Al.) 
From E. Vcmon Frost: "Just a note along with my dues. Please address all correspondence to my home address, 5916 S. Kings Road, Los Angeles, California. Recently I arrived at Com­mander Ser\ice Forces, Pacific Fleet here in Hawaiij as Assistant Technical and Engineering Oflicer in the Pacific Command Petroleum Of­fice. As collateral duty, will probably be coacli­playcr of the CinCPac Flcet-Com Serv Pac bas­ketball team. Your letter had difficulty catdiing up witli me since previous to July I was in the Far East as Administrative Asst. and Aide to 

Rear Admiral Ragan on General Clark's HQ-, 
F.E.C. staff. 
"If plans go as scheduled, next May 8th will find me in Los Angeles at which time I will be anxious to return to Sales and Engineering in the petroleum, steel, and related industries, again representing possible Eastern, Midwestern, or Gulf Coast companies with coverage throughout California. I hope to Join the class in '55, and p'crsonal thanks to you as secretary*, Al, for keeping us posted tlie past years on so many of the fellows." 
From Tom McCaughey: "Enclosed please find my dues. My delay is inexcusable, but beliex'e mcy Al, my intentions have always been good. It sounds like our reunion in 1955 is bound to be a big success. I'm looking for^vard to that. 
"Your letters have been ver>' enjoyable, and. 

KANSAS—Alumni Club session at the Carlin Ranch, Salina, Kan. Left to right: Al McLean, John Carlin, Dr. Fred Gans, George Cole and Norb Skelley (standing). 
even though you took *party-poopers* like my­self to task, I believe that I deserved it and can only say that I shall try to be more co­operative in the future. Wishing you and the class the best of luck, I'll sign off for now." (Dear Tom, thanks for the dues. If you follow through with your plans to make the 10-ycar reunion you'll get the dues plus interest back, and add lo the general ijicrriment. From all early indications, it's going to be short of col­lossal, and that's a promise!! I sec you have offices at 332 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago 4, Illinois. Good luck to you, Al.) 
From Frank Curran: "Tlie swiftness with which my address changes is unavoidable. Uncle Sam, you know. Sorr>*. It must be very frustrating for the bill collectors. Have been in Germany for three months now. Expect to return next June. There's only one thing that Europe has which is superior to the USA. JIM CLYNES would agree that the CATHEDRALS arc beau­tiful. Have been over most of Germany, and to Copenhagen, Stockholm, Oslo, and Lisbon. Have not met one XD man yet. If there arc any in the Frankfurt area, please drop a note to Frank 
J. Curran, 1st Lt. M.C., 7779 Med. Det. G. APO 227, Kaiserslantcrn, Germany (or c/o Post­master, New York). 
"In addition to my medical duties here, am coach of the football team. So far we have a similar record to ND—3-0-0. Best to all." 
From Bob McCarthy: "Please pardon this has­tily scribbled note. Regarding your letter of Sep­tember, as far as I'm concerned, there is no reason for apologies. Your 'Party Poopcrs* letter was correct. Sorry I took so long, but here is the dollar finally.** (Tlianks for the vote of confidence. Bob, and for the dues. Al) 
From Bob GrilTm (to Ray Baddour)r "En­closed is a check to cover my dues. I sincerely feel that it is a small amount which will pro­vide all the class of '45 much more in memory of those wonderful years al Xotrc Dame. I am tardy in sending in my dues, so I can't say very much, except that the least wc can do is give all our cooperation in the tremendous work ahead. Good luck and be assured you will have my complete cooperation now and always.'* 
From Rudy Anderson (to Ray Baddour): "I am never the first to get these things in, but sooner or later my 'social secretar^'-spouse* is always sure to prod mc into activity. I am glad to hear from \-arious sources that you arc quite happy that you have had a cliance to lo­cale "up there in Cambridge. I can't get too complimentary about it because, if any of the M,LT. individuals around here heard mc com­ment to the good, my complete line of joshing attack would be lost. Needless to say, I hope you have all good luck in your 'professorial* capacity. 
"True to my promise to Doc Hamel, I have particularly deserted the profession of research and development, and am now a patent lawyer with Johns-Manvillc Corporation down here in the research Center in ^fanWIic, New Jersey. 
"While they accuse me of being 'an engineer gone wrong,' some of the Notre Dame Chem En­gineers in this area still talk to me. I see GENE MOORE quite often. He is with Essa Standard Oil, and incidentally, is the relatively new father of a gorgeous little girl. I also saw PAUL PANDOLFI, who devotes his time to DuPont at the GrasselH Works, at a recent meeting of the New Jersey Club. /\side from the Chem Engineers, we see BILL MOORE and JOHN 'BUMP* ELLIOT quite often. I have talked to JOHN DeVRIES, who is running an electric brain for Curtiss-Wright. 
"Before coming up here, I spent four years in Washington, D. C, with evening law school, the Patent Office, and subsequently the Department of Justice. Most of the time down there was spent in a figurative ND patent law>-er club with DAN O'DONNELL, LARRY WINTERS, JOE KEVLIN, and CLAYT TODDY—%ve voted HUGH WARD, Washington Sales Engineer for Fairbanks-Morse, an honorary membership in our club. 
"That's about all the news I can think of, Ray. I would be very happy to see you if you happen to be down ia this vicinity and are 
WALTER MONACELLT, '38 

As manager of the Patent Section, Koppcrs Co., Inc., Walter Monacelli, '38, has the responsibility for all mat­ters pertaining to patents, trade-marks, and copyrights of Koppers. He super­vises a staff of eight patent attorneys. 
^Valt also received a Ph.D. degree from Notre Dame, in addition to a Bachelor of Science, in 1941, and grad­uated from the DePauI U. School of Law with a J.D. degree in 1945. He is the second of three Monacelli broth­ers to attend Notre Dame—^Al gradu­ated in 1934 and Carl finished his pre-dental studies in 1943. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Walt worked as research chemist with Atlantic Refining Co., in Philadelphia and the Sherwin-Williams Paint Co., in Chicago. Thereafter he was with Industrial Rayon Corp., Cleveland, prior to join­ing the Koppers organization. 
Walt is married to Miriam Johnson of Atlanta, Ga., and they have two daughters, Linda, 4, and Janet, 2. 
free around a meal time. Regards to yourself, to Al, and to the class." (Rudy's address and phone number for those living in Jersey, is: 42 Madison Avenue, Fanwood, New Jersey. The phone is Fanwood 2-8040.) ­
From Francis \f. Gulncy: '^Enclosed please Hnd my dues. I'm sorry for being so fate. I received your letter at the end of September and now hasten to send in my dues. Regards to all.** (Thank you for your dues, and I want to tell the rest of the class- that your address is 247-43 Sc\'cnty-Scvcnih Crescent, Bellerosc, Long Island, New York. Best regards, Al.) 
From Miss Nancy CofTcy, «ster of Michael CofFc}-: "Enclosed please find a check for $1 to cover the class dues of my brother, ^tichael 
J. CofTcj'." (Mike Cofrc>- is presumably still in Germany, although I had thought he would be back in tlic USA by this past March. If anyone has furtlier word, please send jt on to me. Al.) 
From Ed I.aRocque: "I want to get off your 'delinquent list' so I'm enclosing the sought-for buck. I hope the rest of the class was a little better than I in paying as soon as re­quested. 
*'I don't have much in the way of news for you. I got out of the Navy a year ago this October and have been back working in Fort Wayne with International Han'ester Company since that time. Naturally, living about 70 miles from the campus, I went to several of the games this Fall. If you get down around this w-ay, do look us up." (Dear Ed, thanks for the in­vitation to look you up. I certainly will should I get near enough. Thanks also for the dues. I note your new address is 152914 Spy Run Ave­nue, Fort ^Vayne, Indiana. Good luck, and we'll be Seeing you at the 10-Marker. Al.) 
From Vincc Laurita: "I received your letter of September and hope I can renew some of your faith in mankind. I too must belong to that group of *non-dues payers,* but I have somewhat of an excuse. Twice within the last year we have moved and in that space of time have received little correspondence and no issues of the ALUMNUS. However, I believe most of the fault is mine since I probably overlooked sending a change of address card. Enclosed you will find my dues. 
"I noticed you asked for volunteers from the South Bend area, and since we have established residence here, and looks as if we might be here for some time to come, I will be glad to help in any way at all. Another thing of special in­terest to me concerns the NROTC reunion, as I am a member of that 2nd NROTC graduating class. I had heard rumors that we might hold our *33 reunion with the balance of the class, and when you confirmed it, I was most happy with the news. I certainly do like the idea. 
"I have been here in South Bend a little over a year now. I am working at John Adams High School as a teacher and also coaching football (backficid assistant) and track. I have seen some thirty or more fellows from our class in this past year, who have dropped in to see a game or who were just passing through to^^'n. I am anxiously awaiting the opening of ND's home schedule so I will get the chance to see some more of the old gang. Seems I have said enough, Al. Any way that I can help, I will be glad to. Give my regards lo all." (Dear \'ince, thanks for the enthusiasm. You are being put on my list of possible future manpower so that I will call upon you as the plans develop, should I need you. Some of the points and questions which j'ou brought out ia your letter are best answered directly by mail, so I have not printed the whole letter. You'll be hearing from me very shortly, and I know that you will be happy with what my answers will be. Good luck to you. I note that your new address is 738 SyK-an Lane, South Bend 19, Indiana.) 
From Mike Carry: "Your correspondence has always been well-received and no^v I hope you continue even though I am making my dues-payment. The Garry family now includes an eight-month-old daughter, Mary Jane, and the Grain Business is still trying to provide for them-. With best wishes to you and the c!ass." (Congratulations, Mike. As long as you have a favorable balance of trade vi-ith the grain busi­ness, you have no worry. When the children start eating more than you have to sell, then you better be>vare. Good luck. Al.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb.t 1954 41 
JOHN A. MATOUSEK, '32 
Announcement has just been made by the Baker-Raulang Co., Gleveland, 
0.5 industrial truck and tractor manu­facturer, of the appointment of John 
A. Matousekj '32. as vice-president and general manager. He ^vill be re­sponsible for all activities in the com­pany's operation. 
John is also a director of the Baker-Lull Corp., in Minneapolis, Minn. He is a member of the Societ>' of Auto­motive Engineers, Cleveland Cham­ber of Commerce, Shaker Heights Country Club and the Notre Dame Alumni Club in Cleveland. 
Joining Baker-Raulang in 1949 as manager of manufacturing, John was named to a vice-presidency in this division in October, 1951. Before his association with the Baker-Raulang Co., John was manager of the Detroit Division of the Hupp Corp. 
From John J. Dowling: "Enclosed is my check for class dues. I must explain \VHY you haven't heard from me. My present address is my fourth in less than two years, and it is a miracle that your last communication has been forwarded to mc via Newport, R. I., Devan, Pa., and Philadelphia, Pa. 
"I have been out of the Navy (the reason for the California and Ne^^port addresses) for 8 months, and am now back in my residency in Orthopedic Surgcr>'. AVIII be at the State Hos­pital for Crippled Children, £Itzabethto\%-n, Pa., 
until July, 1954, when I return to JefTcrson Hos­pital in Philadelphia. My home address will be 106 Rolh'ng Road, Carroll Part, PhiJadelphia 31, 
Pa." 
From Ray Baddour: "A couple of ivceks ago I was home (North Carolina) and saw SAM RIZK there. He is making lots of money, is still single. JIM BUTLER dropped in on me here in Boston on business. He stayed with me a couple of days and it w*as nice seeing him again for the first time since 1945. He, too, looks swell and is doing very well as a metal­lurgist for U. S. Steel Corp. As far as the class dues picture goes, we have collected Just under 29% of tlie present maximum. Let's hear from you." (Dear Ray, thanks for the news and the fact that we still have a lot of \\-aiting to do until some of the class begin to feci like sending in their dues. First chance I get I'll be up to Boston as there are several things I want to talk over with you concerning some of the embr>'0 plans for our future reunion. See you soon. Al.) 
I want to state once more—for any of the class who arc still in doubt—that the '55 reunion will be planned for the WHOLE class, includ­ing all the men who attended or graduated with our class, and including the whole NROTC group. Special functions \^'ill be planned exclu­sively for NROTC participation, and a plan is being worked on now that will leave a whole floor for NROTC iWthjn IIJC hall assigned tor '45 returnees. The important tiling will be that the majority of the reunion will be a concen­trated effort to have ever>'onc meet €vcr>-one, Tcncwins old friendships, and talking about all the things that have happened since we all parted way back in 1945. More details as tl)c>* develop. For the time being, best of luck to all of you and to your families. S'long for now . . . Al. 
1 9dA ^^^^ Tenge, Jr. 
• ^^* ' 35 Hughes St., Apt. 2, Hartford, Conn. 

JAAfES A. EGAN has been appointed Chicago district sales manager for the Magnavox Com­pany. 
Lts. Don Strasser and Lcroy Leslie, both of the '52 cbss, are with the Fifth Air Force in Korea. 
KANSAS—J. E. Foley, '40, alumni club president, presents $25 award to Hilarettc Skibinski^ of Afarymount College^ Salina, Kan., for winning a designing contest sponsored by the club. 
vAyi^t James E. Murphy IT«I/ 408 So. 25th, Apt. B-2 South Bend, Indiana 
LYNN R. BRYAN, a Beverly Hills, California, netvspapcrman, reports seeing several Notre Dame men at a reunion in the Biltmorc Hotel on the tvccfcend of the Southern California game. Among those mentioned: MIKE HINES, an at­torney in Las Vegas; JOHN KELLY with the FBI in Los Angeles; JACK YOUNG, West Coast publisher's representative: JIM ^\"HELAN who practices law in Fresno; BILL FULTON who is in the outdoor advertising business; AIIKE I\TRS who is in the television field; and ROB­ERT NUEGARD. Bryan says he occasionally sees JACK ZILLY who is a liquor salesman and JOE CAMPBELL who operates a department store in Santa Monica. 
CHARLES YxVKEMONIS is now teaching in Shenandoah, PennsyK'ania. 
That's all the news this time from the men of *47. l.et*s hear from more of you for the next issue of the ALUMNUS. 
m QAQ Herman A. Zitt I T*tO 126 Farmside Drive Dayton, Ohio 
Dr. GORDON R. McKINNEY has been ap­pointed an Assistant Professor of Pharmacology-in the medical school of West Virginia Uni­versity. 
JOSEPH T. KIVLIN, JR., has joined the Re­search and Development DiWsion of S.C. John­son & Son, Inc., as Assistant Patent Attorney. 
RICHARD F. KAYSER recently received a Ph.D. degree from the University of Cincinnati and has accepted a position in the research and development Jaboratory ol Linde Air Products Company of Tona%vanda, New York. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 

JIM DOUGHERTY who is employed with the distance will prevent htm from attending the re­Elder Manufacturing Company of St. Louis' came union. He married Barbara Ann Sundling of 
K' ^ 
1 0A0 John P. Walker '*t T 826 Wins Street Elgin, Iliinois 
The circular and tlic class roster which was sent to all M9crs announcing the five-year reunion June 
i. U, 12 and 13, 1954 netted a whole mail bag full of news as well as about thirty early birds who have signed up to be there. Your secretary appre­ciates the many ofTers to help on the reunion committee. JOE DOYLE has accepted the task of being the South Bend representative of the reunion committee. Tliosc in the South Bend area who would like to work with Joe may contact him at the South Bend Tribune. Suggestions will be gratefully received from '49ers as to what kind of a program they ^vould enjoy for the tlirce­day reunion. The program usually includes a class Mass, a class dinner, possibly a softball 
- game with the ten-year class. There is, of course, tlie Alumni banquet in which all the reunion classes participate. Let- me know what you'd like most. Here's a list of those who have said they would attend for sure: 
ROBERT ^L CLVNCHETTI, &\RLOS J. CORONA, JOSEPH S. COSTA, WILLLVM E. DACEY, WILLLVM F. DANIELS, JAMES J. 
r DOUGHERT\', JOSEPH A. DOYLE, THO^rAS 
F. HANLON, THOMAS A. HYNES, THOMAS 
J. KELLY, RICHARD J. KOPF, OTIS P. JJiM-BERT, a\R L A. LIEBSCHER, WILBUR L. LOCKE, THONL\S J. McGUIRE, JR., ROBERT 
J. iL\CKIN, MARTIN A. >tATICH, EDWARD 
J. MEEHAX, ^HLBUR F. MILLER, EUGENE 
J. O'NEIL, FRANCIS B. PARISE, ROBERT A. POISSON, CHARLES A. ROULT, GEORGE E. SCHRO.VDER, JOHN E. SENYCZKO, JOHN P. 
:- SHEEH.\N, SYDNEY E. SIMPSON, JOHN F. SULLIVAN, ALEX^VNDER S. TOTH, FRED R.* 
• XEVT, JOHN P. WALKER, JOSEPH B. WOERTH, CHARLES .\f. WOODS. 
Others who replied and who arc interested but unsure of attendance include: LAWRENCE S. CONNOR, EMMET R. DALTON, AVILLUM J. GORMAN, J. RICHARD L.AMERE, DANIEL 
D. REARDON. 
up with a good suggestion in his letter: **If each member of our class would personally write or contact only fi\'e fellow '49crs, the fellows he knew best, telling of his intention to be in South Bend for the reunion, I think our at­tendance would increase.*' Periodically your sec­retary will issue a listing of who Intends to be present. 
JACK SULLIVAN'S letter reached us too late for inclusion in the last ALUMNUS. Jack is out of the Army now and is presently employed with the Rockford Wholesale Paper Co., Inc., He was released from the Army after active duty with the Quartermaster Corps and the Army Audit Agency of the Finance Corps. Jack and his wife Gloria are living at 621 Theodore Street in Rockford, III. 
Jack's letter also reported the activities (as of September) of several other '49crs: "ROBERT STOLZE has been with the Counter Intelligence Corps of the Army in Tokyo. JACK FRANZ acquired a direct commission as First Lt. in the' Adjutant General's Corps and was stationed at the Pentagon. FR/VNK R. REGAN (ex '50), was a Second Lt., Army Artillery and saw action on most of the 'ridges' in Korea. JACK SWEE­NY js married and working at the Los Alamos, New Mexico, project." 
DAN REi\RDON has turned out to be a regular traveling reporter. In his Job with the Scott, Foresman Publishing Company he travels through 5y2 states and reports on the activities of many '49ers. Dan married Ruth Bote in 1931. He and his wife and son are living at 3731 Warrensville Center Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio. This is what Dan had to say: "JIM RODGERS is now living' in Toledo and is man­ager of the Pacific Finance Loan office there. At latest count he and his wife had a little girl and another one on the way, JOE HIPP is liv­ing here In Erie and employed by a printing firm. GEORGE KIERNAN got out of the Army and returned to Notre Dame to take Law. JIM MARTIN of Dune Acres, Ind., was married some time ago. DICK PENDERGAST was in the wedding party. 
L. S. (BO) CON'NOR reports that LEO BARNHORST is playing pro basketball with the Baltimore Bullets. 
From FLETCHER DxVNIELS: "I am with the Standard-Coosa-Thatchcr Co., in export sales work. BOB VERHILE is in Shiraz, Iran work­ing as an Administrative officer with the Point Four program. Says he has about 150 Iranians working for him—or against him is iisually the case." 
BILL D.\CEY writes from Boston of his ever-expanding family: two boys and a girl with number four on Thanksgiving. Bill reports that JOHN SULLIVAN was married in June, *5I, and has settled in Norwell, Mass. The Suin\-ans have one child and another on the way. 
NORB SMITH writes from Los Angeles that Indianapolis and his new address Is: Apt. 401, 
135 N,. New Hampshire; Los Angeles 4, Calif. 
CHUCK ROULT is with the Automatic Sprink­ler Corporation (Chicago office) and is now liv­ing in E\-anston. Chuck spent 34 months in the Army. \VhiIc be was in BiifTalp last summer, he saw DON BUSECK and TOM HANIFIN. both *49crs, who arc working there. 
HARRY O'CONNELL wites from the U.S.S. Baltimore, a Navy cruiser, that he ivon't be able to make the reunion. The Baltimore is expected to be in European waters then. Harry is a Lt. (jg). 
TOAf KELLY writes from Buffalo; "I entered the University of Buffalo I^w School in Septem­ber *49 and was graduated in June of *52. I was admitted to the New York Bar in November '52 and since the summer of '52 have been practicing with Brown, Kelly, Turner & Symons here in Buffalo. I was married last July Uth to Phyllis >L Braun. 
From Oceanside, Long Island, New York, comes word from JOHN KENNEDY that family re­sponsibilities will prohibit him from attending the reunion. John is with the FBI and tells me that the squad to which he is assigned is prac­tically a government Notre Dame club. Jack and his wife Kathleen have a daughter and another heir on the way. 
DICK I^VMERE is living in Milton, Mass., and is a reporter on the Boston Hcrald-Traveler. 
TOM HANLON is a special agent for the Bankers Life Co., and is assigned to the South Bend office. 
Also from South Bend comes word from BOB MACHIN. He has been working for Bendbc Aircraft in Production Control for four years. The Machins had their third child in October. 
My old Prefect and neighbor from the third floor of Dillon Hall—GENE O'NEILL—is going great guns out in Chicopee Falls, ifass., where he heads the E. J. O'Neill insurance agenci*. Here's what he had to say: "I plan to attend as of now .. . we arc having our third some , time in May so if everything is OK 1*11 be there. I'm secretary-treasurer of our local club and see some of the fellows. BOB CAMPBELL is married and has two children. MOE CASEY {'49 from ?Iolyokc), is on his own in the ad­vertising business. . . . I'm the third generation to run the business. I'm a trustee of the Chi­copee Falls Savings Bank, Veterans Administra­tion appraiser, president of the Chicopee Real Estate Board, appraiser for the Commonwealth of Mass. and have many other duties.'* 
SALVATORE NIGRO Is currently a First Lt. in the Air Force and is Legal Officer with the 5I8th Air Base squadron stationed at Niagara Falls, N. Y. Lt. Nigro received his law degree from Kansas City University in June, '52. Jle is engaged to Miss ^farian Gibltn of Kansas City, Mo. 
BILL PFAFF has been released from the Army and has returned to his duties as assistant editor of The Commonweal. 
M. L. SMITH has rejoined the Carbology Department of General Electric, Detroit, after two years in the ^(arine Corps. PHIL RUSSO is opening a law office this January in Norfolk, Va. 
Remember, gentlemen, as soon as you have your plans made, will you let me know about your intentions tou-ard attending the reunion June 11, 12, 13. A postal card will do the trick. 
1 OCA Richard F. Hahn IVDU 5440 No. Winthrop 
Glucago, IlUnois 

An alumni reunion in Holly^vood's Bro^vn Derby restaurant. Left to right: Mrs. Dailey; 
Take note that our dassnotes are a little William Dailey; Mrs. Callahan; ND Sports Publicity Director Charlie Callahan; sketchy this issue and it's not because I*m at a 
loss for words, but rather at a loss for names. Mrs. Walsh; and Christy \VaUh, Jr. Up to today, I have received only one letter 
l^otre Dame Alumnus, Jan,-Feb., 1954 43 

UHESTERN WASHINGTON—The CIuVs retreat was held at St. Martin's Abbey, Seattle. Left to right: Morris E. Starrctt, August R. Von Boccklin, Club Pre.x}* Pat Goggin, George Nyerc, Harry Abel and Joe Manley. Mr. Nyere died recently and the report 
of his death is in this 
bringing in news of cver\nne's doings. I hope 
that next issue more good intentions will be 
put on paper and mailed. By right we shovdd 
have one of the largest columns of any class 
for wc arc one of the largest classes, with over 
1200 students. So come on and write, even if 
it's just to say "Hello." 

Well now for the news. My first son. John Xugent Halm, was born October 5. 1953 and has been showing a keen interest in all the Saturday afternoon games by yelling Iiis lungs nut. This brings our family to two now. 
It's reported that BOB MURPHY and Ids 
wife Dorothy are expecting their first child 
some time next spring. Bob is with the Public 
Service Companv of Xorthern Illinois. 
ROXALD B. MYRTE R writes, "After receiv­mg my U.S. in Commerce. I entered the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania Law School along with JOE FARRELL, also a 1950 grad. Received my 
LL.B. last June and recently received good news that I had passed the Pennsylvania State Bar Examination, .\fter completing the required six months clerkship here in Pennsylvania. I intend to begin private practice in Clearfield. Pa. Marital status is still single. 
"I have smtif information tui other 1950 gradu­ates. JOE FAURELL, wiiom I mentioned above, was drafted inio the .•Xrmy after completing his first year in law srhonl. I saw him la.st Fcbru­ar\* when he stiipped over on the wav to Korea; he' was then LT. JOE FARRELL, and he stated then that he Intended to return to Penn. Law school after being discharged. 

"JACK GAKIEPY is now in his last year in Yale Medical school. The last I heard, my old roommate, JACK COOSSF-\S, was at the Uni­••erslty of Mar^'Iand doing graduate work in chcmlstrs-. Last uinler In Xew York. I ran into FRAXK' STERXFFZ in Penn. Station. He was (hen with a chemical firm in Xew Jersey. J.ACK CR.\XE Is also working in the sales division of a chemical firm in Philadelphia, Is married, and has two children." 
BILL FLEMIX G married Kathr>n Loosbrock in Charles City, Iowa, on X'oveniber 14. TO.M LOOSBROCK, '52, was the best man. JACK XEU.MEYER, '52. TOM NEUMEYER, '54. and JUSTIX McDOXOUGH, '54, were Bill's ushers. Other Xoire Dame men present for the festivities xverc BILL LEEDS, '50. ROY STRICKFADDEX, '52. and BERXIE ALL.-\RD, '56. Bill and Katliy will make their home in East St. Louis, Illinois, where Bill Is associated with the McGlynn law firm. 
BOB KRAEMER is working in the Jet Pro­pulsion Research Division of X'orth .American A\*iation. Bob is still living at the Kracmcr Rancho, Placentla. California, and is currently sporting around the Golden State in a maroon Jaguar. 
 issue of the ALUMNUS. 

TOM BEXEDICT received his Master's Degree from Iowa University this summer. ROG HOS­BEIX is rumored to be it) Korea. Do any i>f his friends know his address over there? 
JERRY JOHXSO.X stopped by the campus for a short visit recently, Jerry is now a First Lieutenant it) the .-Mr Force stationed in Rapid City, South Dakota, where he Is assigned to the Joint Armed F<»rces Research Project. Jerr\* and his wife. Earline. have been blessed with a daughter, MIclielle. 9 months, and expect another addition to the family by Spring. 
BILL EGCERS and JOHX FERRY visited 
the campus for the Xa\->' and Iowa games. Bill lias resigned Ins position with Phillips Texas in order to accept a job with National Screw and Manufacturing in ItilPs home town of Cleveland. John completed his Na\-\- tour of duty late in the sunmirr of 1933 as a Lieutenant and h now wfirking in Sharon, Pa. 
BOB L.-\LLY has deserted his private law-practice to a.'.sociale himself with a large Cleve­land law firm. Bob's wife. Betsy, recently pre­sented him with the third little Lally. Bob's new address is 18129 Parkmotint Dr., Cleveland. Ohio. 
BILL LEEDS has returned to the campus after his tour of duty with Military- Intelligence. Bill is now studying Political Science and occupies his free time by toiling on the ALUMXUS and XOTRE D.A.ME magazines and as a coaching assistant on the track team. 
JIM (CLUTCH) HOLLOWAY visited the cam­pus for the Iowa game. Jim has graduated from the Michigan law school, passed the Illi­nois Bar. and is now associated with Arthur Anderson in Chicago. 
Robert J. Klingcnbcrijcr 1951 1717 Pcmberton Drive 
Fort Wayne, Indiana 
I got to the Pittsburgh and Xav>- games this year and saw some of the old classmales around. 
TO.M aVRROLL has left the University's Public Relations Department and Is now with the Dumorc Co., in Racine, AVisconsin. 
JACK MULDOOX is In law school at Kent. BOB RAYMOXD is with Shell Oil Co. In Chi­cago. P.\T TOXTI Is married, has one girl, and is attending law school. 
DOX SOX'TAG and TOM MEYERS arc still located in Northwestern Med School and arc doing a fine job. LEO BREXX'AX is still with Uncle Sam's Air Force and was about to be sent to Japan when I saw him. 
DICK MacDOXALD was released from the .\rmy on September 1, and Is now back In La­f.iycltc Working with his father in the classi-

FORT WA\7s'E—Mrs. Robert O'Reilly and Mrs. Arthur W. Miller, whose husbands arc Bob, '43, and Art, '28, sell tickets at Herb Shrincr Show for alumni club benefit. 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan.-Feb., 1954 

fied advertising business. BOB HOFF is in the Army and is located at Fort Sill in Oklahoma. 
BOB MORIARIT has just been released from the service and was returning home to Montana with his new bride. JIM XACTECHAL has also been released from the semce and was at the game with his bride. 
TOM McGEE, 'who left Notre Dame after his junior year, is now back on campus after serving three years in the Coast Guard. Tom writes that BILL McDERMOTT passed the Illinois Bar Exam this summer and is now with Arthur An­derson in Chicago. BILL MacMILLf\N has passed the Ohio Bar. TOM KELLEGH/\N, who was released from the Army in the Fall of '52, is back at ND studying law. JACK HADDIX, who was in pre-nied and who left in 1950, is back studying philosophy. 
HOBE TAYLOR is back from 18 months serv­ice in Korea and is in the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University. He Is resid­ing at 3003 P Street N\\% Washington, D. C. JACK McaVRTHY, 3742 Stannard Dr., Toledo, Ohio, was released from the Air Force on July 17 ai>d is now in (he law school at Ohio Siatt; His school address is 4 East I2th Avenue, Co­bimbus, Ohio. 
STAGE HOY, a good friend of many members of our class and who left school in 1949, writes that he is still associated with his father In the dr>- cleaning business. He further writes: "I mar­ried a lovely Irlsli colleen by the name of Lor­raine Flanagan. We have two small boys, Stacy William, HI, 19 months, and Patrick Joseph, 7 months. Both look like likely candidates of about 1971." Stace's address is 1719 Lane, Falls City, Nebraska. Thanks, Slace, and the best of luck to you. 
WALT COLLINS, 207 Cricket Ave., writes that on July 10 they were blessed %vith W. Robert Collins, "who has taken advantage of every opportunity since to let us know that he Is stilt around." 
Frater Basil, O.S.B., alias VERNON BURK­H.ART, writes that he made a profession of his simple vows Inst January 15, and is now in his second year of Theology. Also s udving w-ith him are D.WE HOGAN and MIKE DIEHLE, for the Sioux City and Tucson dioceses respec­tively. They are in their third year of Theology. JOE PARKER, '52, from Louisville, is also studying with them. JOE SCHIDLER, '51, is in his third year of seminary- life at St. Melnrad's. BILL KLEE Is attending Ohio State University and his address is 317 Brevoorl Rd., Columbus 2, Ohio. JERRY I^VBOE married a South Bend girl, Miss Joan RIordan, has a son, and is working as a Civil Service personnel investigator. Jerr>''s address is 4871 Overland Parkway, Toledo, Ohio. DON KREBS is in his third year of Tlicolog>- at St. Paul Seminar>- in St. Paul, Minnesota. ART ^L\RGRO joined the Francis­cans at Loretto, Pa. BOB BR.\NDEL is pre­paring himself for the role of lay calechist and intends to go to Nigeria, Africa, with his good friend Michael .Abdul-Ockpon when Mike returns home. Bob's address Is 325 Lincoln Way West, South Bend, Indiana. BILL O'CONNOR studied at the Holy Cross Novitiate at Latrobe, Pa., and is now in O.C.S. at Fort Belvoir, Va., where he has bumped into TOM HUBER- Bill asks for our prayers to help him know and follow God's will. Bill's address is William O'Connor, U.S. 52252993, Class 64, Co. C, Fort Belvoir, Va. Vern states that he believes that 
JOHNNY O'BRIEN is In the seminary of St. John's, Collcgcville, Minn. Vern's address Is Frater Basil, O.S.B., Conception Abbey, Con­ception, Missouri. 
'^^^^^^W^m^^^ if.-? 
Linus C. Glotzbach, ri^ht, who was graduated from the law school in 1934 cum laude, is vice-president and assistant to the president of Northwest Airlines. He was awarded a lO-ycar service pin by Croil Hunter, president and general manager. Linus organized the airline's personnel and labor relations department in 1942 and stiH heads it. He directed the staffing of extra wartime projects when more than 13,000 persons were on the payroll. He also supervises the flight food service along a 20,000-mile system coast-to-coast, to Hawaii, Alaska and the Orient, in addition to company cafeterias. 
MIKE DIEHL followed up Vern's letter with two more addresses for us: JIM BATES, who is studying law at Georgetown, Apt. 706, 35 E. St. NW, Washington 1, D, C ; and BROTHER ERNEST (ART) MARGRO, F.O.R., Franciscan Fathers, Mt- AssisI Monastery, Loretto, Pa-
LEO McKILLiP viewed the Southern Method­ist game.while on a weekend visit to the campus and reported that he Is currently studying for a master's degree In education at the University of Nebraska. 
DON SCHILDER reports that he is now an .•Vsslstant Resident in Internal Medicine at Georgetown University Medical Center and is engaged to be married this coming spring. Don often sees JOE COSTA, JACK S.VNDERS, JACK xVRGUE and many other Notre Dame men. 
PHIL aVNT\\'ELL will always consider 1953 a red letter year as his Jollet Catholic High (III.) football team rolled through to an unde­feated season. 
HENRY M. SHINE, JR., LL.B., has been appointed Assistant to Commissioner Robert G. Storey on the Commission on Organization of the E-\eculive Branch of the Government—popu­larly known as the "floover Commission." His appointment became cfTcctive in November, 1953 and Henr>' lias relinquished his dual post as Ad­ministrative Editor, Oil and Gas Reporter, and Director of Publications of the Southwestern Legal Foundation in Dallas, Tex. Henry's new address is: Hoover Commission, General Account­ing Office Bidg., Room 3118, Washington 25, 
D. C. 
I OC ^ Harry L. Buch y^^ 309 Fisher Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
I am at this writii\g sorry to inform you of the death of one more member of our class. LEONARD R. SLMO.NS, JR., died July 4, 1953, as the result of a fall while hiking on Mt. Hassel in Greenland where he was stationed with the .\ir Force. Remember him as well as ASDY HERNON, BOB HERLIHV and IVAL­L.\CE BUTLER in your prayers. 
Heard from JACK J. MxVYL, who is an En­^ign in the Navy, stationed with the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts in Cleveland, Ohio. He tells me that GENE RILEY is an Ensign on the 
U.S.S. Grand Canyon. BARRY H.U'NES, AL BLOUNT, JERRY STEIS, BERNIE LYNCH, and HARRY H.\GERTY are all Ensigns in the .Va\y. JOHN J. COLE.\LVN, JR., is an Ensign on the .Midway. TO.M TIERNEY was drafted in November. He is married to Marginc White, a former employee of the Library'. Many thanks for the news. Jack. 
HUGHES WILCOX is a Second Lieutenant in the .-Mr Force and is planning to be married to Margie Walker in a few months. DAVE WIL­MOT has been in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii with the Navy since March. 
GUY GADARDO is working for Ford Motor Co. in Cleveland, Ohio. ^L\TT KERGER is working for the United Boiler and Tank Co. in Hammond. Ind. J.ACK CAREY Is working for Peoria Caterpillar Co. in Peoria, 111. BOB BRUNS is working for Williams and Co. in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
ED GR.\Y is an Ensign in the Navy. He has just returned from Cuba and Is now stationed in Philadelphia. PHIL MEYER, Ensign, is sta­tioned in Pensacola, Fla. ED KRUPPS is in the .•\riny stationed at Fort Riley, Kansas. TOM DUNLEY and PETE GARVEV are in the Army and arc stationed in Alaska. JOE GOULDE is an Ensign and is stationed in Guam. 
a\R L EIBERGER is attending the Notre Dame Lai*' Scliool. He represented ND in the National Moot Court Argument and Is also the Editor of the Lawyer. 
VIC KROEGER is working on his Master's Degree in English. While here he is teaching in the Commerce School. Tlie Kroegcrs live in VetvIIle and have a little son, Mark, born in .\pril. 
Heard from Lt. JACK H. WENNING. He is finishing up an instructors course in Jets at 
Notre Dante Alumnus, Jan.-Feb,, 1954 45 
George ^Vinlder, Jr., '30, is vice-president and regional director, Eastern Division, of the National Furniture ^Varehousenlen's Association. He also is treasurer and gen­eral manager of John Winkler's Sons, Inc., Far Rocka^vay, Long Island, N. Y. 
Craig A.F.B., Alabama, and will rc;um to Forfjes A.F.B., Texas, to begin instructing after the first of the vear. Lts. JACK WAGNER and DON MAHRT are at AVcbb A.F.B., Big Springs, Texas, finishing up basic single engine jet train­ing. Lt. BILL DONELAN completed multi-en­gine training at Vance A.FJ}., Okla., last month and is now- in B-29 training at Kandolf A.F.B., San Antonio, Texas. Jack tells me that tltey ran into each other at Webb last month and staged a real four-man reunion. 
A/2c H. E. (GENE) ^VAG.N'ER is an Air Force medic stationed in Minneapolis. Lt. GEORGE McCLANEY, U.S.^LC., was last re­ported at Cherr>- Point, N, C. He was married last September to Carolyn Clayton. Lt. LEON­ARD (LE\a) DREW is also with the Marines at Cherry Point. Lt. JIM G.ARVIN at last re­port was somewhere in France. 
GEORGE L. HEIDKAMP, now a Lieutenant serving with the Marines in Korea, is the proud father of a baby girl bom in November. LARRY LAPINA has just completed his basic training in the Anny at Fort Riley, Kansas, and hopes to be stationed somewhere in Indiana. 
CHARLES W. FALKENBERG, JR., in law school at Northwestern, is engaged to Mar>' Ann Haselsteiner. TOM SOULES is in the Personnel Department of LB.M., Poughkcepsie, N. Y. He married Joan Murphy of Gardiner, X. Y., in October. BRIAN DUFF married Florence Ann Buckley of Des Moines on November 28. 
ED AVERLE is working on his Mastcr*s in History and tcacliing Economic History in tlie Commerce School. CHARLES HANDS received an M.A. at Pcnn, and is no%%' back here doing further work in English. HUGH SCHADLE, HANK GUSHING, and JOHN GREEN are all doing graduate work in English. DAVE BROWN, who w*as drafted in his junior year, is now out of the service and is back in the Commerce School. CONNIE HIGGINS is in Law School and from all reports has done quite well in the CJ*.A. exam. He has passed three parts and has only one more to conquer. 
GEORGE FAILEY is working for the Arthur Anderson Accounting Finn in Charleston, West Va. JOE PFAFF received his Master's Degree in Education in August and at present is work­ing in Cleveland, Ohio. LEO STEPANIAN is to be married on December 26 to Pat Lancaster of South Bend. TOM MATTHE\VS is in Med­ical School at Georgetown and JOHN MINCH 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, Jan,-Feb., 1954 
is working for the government in New Mexico. Brother ROY CHERRIER, S.M., has been ap­poinled head of the Adult Education Department at St. Mar>''s University of San Antonio, Texas. 
IQR ^ Thomas W. Reedy ' 'O^ 511 Monroe Avenue River Forest, III. 
Since the last writing, your reporter has re­ceived his Nax'y commission and orders and is now in Navy Supply Corps School in Bayonne, New Jersey. I expect to be transferred to Athens, Georgia in Januarj-. 
Dropped in on LEN LeROSE at his father's coal company. Lcn has tentatively signed a con­tract with the Brooklyn • Dodgers but it is de­pendent on whetlier or not he'll be drafted before next summer. Lcn tells me that JOHN­N'Y FORTINO married a hometown gal about October 1. 
CHARLIE RITTEN spent the summer working in Chicago at tlie Boanl of Trade before enter­ing Navy OCS at Newport in the November class. 
Ran into ROC BRAUN at the G-orgia Tech game. He played semi-pro ball this past summrr in ^Visconsin and is employed at the West Bend Aluminum company. His cousin, HUGH BRAUN, is currently studying law at the University of Michigan. 
Also saw EM DAKOSKE and his wife JoAnn. Emory is working in Detroit as ORice Manager for the O'Keefe Beer Company. 
TOM HASSEXGER is studying at loua Uni­versity—taking up a motion picture course there. 
The Georgia Tech weekend was a last fling for MIKE McKINSTRA—he ^vas scheduled to report to the Anny three days afterward. 
BILL KELLY plans to finish up at ND this January- and enter the Na\y soon thereafter. Bill's singing the blues about "that old gang of mine'* that isn't there no mo. 
The JIM BLACKBURNs had their second tin's fall. Blacklegs already signed young Jimmy up for Commerce in 1968. 
DICK PETRARKA and JIM FOLEY are both doing graduate n'ork at DePauI Unii-crsity in Chicago. 
JOHN HAUCK, DON ROSS and VINCE RAYMOND are among the many 53 grads still on the campus studying Law. 
BILL UNGER is entering Na\T OCS this winter. 
On the field in the Pensacola crack drill team bet^veen the halves of the Geo. Tech-ND game was CHARLIE WILSON. Charlie entered Pensa­cola three days after graduation. 
DON CURTIS is employed in Chicago at the Gliddcn company and expected to enter the Army on Nov. 10. 
Saw TOM O'BRIEN, who's passing out cigars on the arrival of tlieir " first—a 6-lb. 8-oz- baby girl. Tom has his own Nash agenc>* in In­dianapolis. 
DA\'E AUGSBERGER is currently stationed with the Navy in Pensacola where he is in pilot training. 
Some of the Notre Dame bo^-s stationed here at Bayonne are: RON WONG, BILL DONALDS, PAUL FARMER (who is engaged and expects to be married this spring}, BILL DEMPSEY, JERRY KEELEY, DA\'E McELVAIN, AL ELLSWORTH, BOB TRIPENY, and AL PAN­DO. All ensigns now. 
EDDIE MCCARTHY — now Lt. McCarthy, U.S.M.C.—was seen taking command in the Biltmore lounge over Thanksgi%*ing. Ed's still at Quantico in officer basic 
Among the 50-odd (?) Notre Dame men of '53 now in Quantico arc: TOM FOOTE, BRIAN KELLY, JOHN JOE O'CONNOR, AL KOHAN­0\nCH, BRENDAN CRYAN, MORT KELLY, JIM ^\'EITHMAN, MIKE BEGLEY, JOHN CAMPAGNONE, GEORGE HIGGINS, JACK CAHILL, BOB DYER, GEORGE DESMETS, and JACK POWERS. 
LOU KRAFTT just entered the Army as did JOHN AVALSH. 
GEORGE BLUBAUGH is scheduled to be mar­ried this spring. LARRY KfcKIM is ^vorking for the Mutual 
J. HARVEY DALY, '28 
A nationally-known expert on hu­man relations, J. Harvey Daly, '28, is Industrial and Public Relations Di­rector of Giant Food Department Stores, Washington, D.C. Harvey teaches a unique course at American University called "Supervision in In­dustry Public Relations." He is in great demand as a speaker by leading professional organizations and lunch­eon clubs in Washington. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club there gave him the *Man of the Year' award in 1950. He has done graduate work at Columbia and George AVashington Universities. This past November, Harvey was featured on a panel at the National Industrial Relations Con­ference, which was sponsored by the 
U. S. Chamber of Commerce and sev­eral other organizations. 
Before coming to his present position with Giant Food Stores, Harvey was with Wright Aeronautical Corp., Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, American Express Co., and the National City Bank of New York. 

Ufe Insurance company in Omaha, Nebraska. Ensign TOM >fANG/\N lias been ordered to Port Hucnemc, Calif., with the Civil Engineers Corps of the Na^y. Lt. GEORGE CUSICK, who was commissioned at graduation as a lieutenant in the Marines, was wounded in action in Korea shortly after­ward and is now recovering in Bethcsda Naval Hospital. George is well on the way to recov­ery- In fact he even got permission last week­end to take in the Army-Navy fooiball game in PhiUy. JOE HARRISON was drafted and is now training in an army tank outfit in Indiana. Ens. DICK MOLOKIE is stationed in the South Pacific—no one seems to know exactly where. SOMMERS McTEIGUE is working as an en­gineer in Stamford, Conn. News item from New York City: PAT (HE.\D) DREW has been drafted and will p'ck up his rifle and serve his country well. Ensign JIM THULIS was married Nov. 18 in Chicago to Virginia Grady. Unfortunately Jim's orders read Yokuska, Japan for which he left immediately after the honeymoon. JOE PAGLI­ARI, a law student at Northwestern, was all set to be best man at the ThuHs wedding but in a touch football game a few days before the wed­ding was roughed up by PAT (KILLER) MONT­ROY and received a triple jaw fracture. AVhere­upon Pat obligingly stepped in and was best man at the wedding. 
CLAUDE ZUBA and LARRY 0*MARA both entered the army Dec I. JOHN FITZGERALD is no;v with the Army stationed at Fort Dtx. CLAIRE TRINKLEY is back a: ND in law school as is JIM KELLY. Ens. GENE BERGIN is stationed in Norfolk, Va., on shore duty. BILL MERRIMAN is completing his studies at the University of Niagara. BILL REEVES is a student of Law at Cornell. BABE CARLSON is currently in OCS Newport 
Officer training as is BOB MUNNS. TERRY BRETT is studying graduate geology at the University of Arizona. Also down at Arizona is JOE BABBITT who is studying Law. JERRY ELLSWORTH is employed as a Jun­ior accountant in Chicago by the Arthur An­derson public accounting firm. 
DON C/\RBON£ is employed in Evanston by the Standard Rate and Data Advertising service. BILL ER\L\N is studying at M.I.T, under a 
teaching fellowship he received in organic chcmistrj*. Ens. PAUL RUPP is stationed on Guam as a Naval officer with TOM CANTWELL. BENNY SUPLICK is doing grad wort at Fordham. Ens. JERRY O'CONNOR will be stationed in Japan In Februar>*. 
RAY KORZEN is working for an insurance company in Chicago while he awa'ts his Air Force orders to report to Lackland A.F.B. in 
Texas in May. 
Ens. JIM BUTLER is stationed on the U.S.S. Krishna. ­Ens. GEORGE PRICE is stationed on the 
U.S.S. Monterey. TOM BAKER is on the U.S.S. Br>ce Canyon. JACK CLiVRK is at Fort Dix where he is in training lo be army audit specialist. AL DeCR^VNE will, by ilie lime you read this item, be a member of the U. S. Marine Corps in Quantico, Va. Al spent some time at the Holy Cross Fathers Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., follo^ving graduation and later returned to work with the Notre Dame Foundation. His com­
mission as a Marine officer came through just before Christmas. 
JOE STADLER is working in Erie, Pa.^ la his father's foundry. STEVE KENDRA is at­tending medical school in Philadelphia. ED KENNEDY and PAT ROSS are studying gradu­ate phy ed at Penn State. BOB NIQUETTE add JOHN SENG were recently drafted. 
GEORGE HELFENSTEIN was present for the 

Tom Hughes, '37, is now district sales manager for Continental Can Company's Paterson, N. J., area. 
Georgia Tech weekend. George Is currently un­dergoing paratroop training and from there will go to OCS. DON VAN VOOREN £s attcndins Hermann's Hospital School of Physical Therapy in Houston, Texas. 
If you're getting engaged, married, working. Joining uPi going to school, or just sitting around home—let the class know about it. Just drop me a card. 
The Meal YEAR-ROUND 6iFT 
 for Boys 10 to IS ... 
THE CATHOLIC BOY 
S ^ r 5 0 Two or more 1-yr. subscriptions: $2.00 each. 
» ^z-z. i year

 Names may be listed on separate sheet. 
I THE CATHOLIC Boy, Dept. AM-16 I Notre Dame, Indiana 
D 3 yrs. - $6.50 

Send The Catholic Boy n 2 yrs. - 4.50 
n 1 yr. - 2.50 
iTo_ 
(Name) 
[ (Street and Number) 
I 
(Zonc) (State) 
I (City) 

I • Send gift card from I n Payment enclosed. n Bill me later. I 
Nalre Dame Alumnus, Jalt.-Feb., 1954 47 

Published monthly, except July and August, by The Holy Cross 
Fathers 

ffgirtcfxn^ ^ 
ARIZONA—Ptocnii—Rrgis G. Lynskcy, '29, 200G West Weldon Ave. rui-jon-E. W. Besten, '27, 2733 E. Devon Drive. 
ARKANS.AS—ftprt Smilh~B. DuVal Johnston, '37, 925 Garrison. LillU RocA—James E. Madigan, '43, 2016 Sum­mit, Little Rock, Ark. 
CALIFORNIA—tor .4nsa«—Charles H. Lynch, '28, IWO E. Foothill Blvd., Altadena, Calif. A'orlftfm—Andrew W. McMuUen, '25, 640 Ford­ham Rd., San Mateo, Calif. San Dieeo—3ohn J. McClaren, '29, 4515 Tivoli St. 
COLORADO—flintvr-Anton Pojman, Jr., '49, 1835 S. Eudora St. Southern Colo.—William J. Donelan, Jr., '29, 1800 Mesa Ave., Broadmoor, Colo. 
CONSECnCVT—Connecticut Vallry^V^yid C. 
Baglcy, '42, 739 Main Street, Hartford. Naugatuck—Francis M. Cronan, '49, 54 Oakland Ave., Waterbury, Conn. Southwestern—Francis J. Herb, *37, 952 Main St., Rm. 305, Bridgeport, Conn. 
DEL.AWARE—Arthur A. Baum, '36, 223 Cham­plain Ave., Bcllemoor, Wilmington, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLU.MBIA—Dr. James M. Cor­coran, '38, 4800 Sedgwick St. N.W., Washington 
16. D. C. 
FLORIDA—Fori Louifcrrfol^—George H. Gore, '48, 812 S.W. 16th St;, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
Greater Miami—Jerome P. Holbnd, '30, 318 
N.E. I04lh St. North Florida—ioba F. Lanahan, '43. P.O. Bos 1679, Jacksonville. 
GEORGI.A—.4l(<inIa—William W. Corr, '32, 109 Dogivood Dr.. Marietta. Georgia. 
IDAHO—Paul L. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLINOIS—Aurora—Richard Reedy, '44, 475 Lake St. Central /Hinoij—James W. Costa, '48, U-A Pas-field Park Place, Springfield, lU. Chicaco—H. Gilbert Seaman, '31, 166 West Jackson. 
Eastern Illinois—ioha Meyer, '42, 1106 1st 
Nat'l. Bank Bldg., Danville. Fox Valley—Ccorsc R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Sum­mit, Elgin. 
Joliet—Joseph H. Stengcle, '52, 720 No. Raynor Ave., Jolict, HI. Peoria—Bernard J. Ghiglicri, '44. 1st National Bank Bldg.. Peoria. Rock River FoHo—Edward M. Sullivan. '33, Amboy, 111. 
INDIANA—Cofumfl Bijtricl—James R. Morrbon, '34, 1834 Summer St., Hammond, Ind. Eastern Indiana—^James W. Halligan. '32. 303 W^^or Bldg.. Muncie. Ind. 
EUkart—Robert F. Holtz, '38, 1021 Strong Ave., Elkhart. £i>onsfi«f—Edward F. Haller, '42, 1313 Lincoln Ave., Evansville, Ind. Fort H'lij-ne—Robert E. Kearney, '48, 1702 Pem­berton Dr. 
Indianapolis—Charles Joseph Gillespie. '41. 2054 
N. Meridian St., Indianapolis, Ind. Michigan City—John A. Kelley, '25, 222 W. Warren, Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph I'oflo—Harry F. Kochler, Jr., '37, 1433 Madison St., South Bend, Ind. 
Wabash Valley—Tei MacDonald, '42, 106 Sunset Lane, West Lafayette, Indiana. 
IOWA—D« AfoinM—Gerald F. Harrington. '30, 
708 44th St., Des iloines. Dubuque—l.ouU Rhomberg, '31, 1820 Delhi St., Dubuque. 
Tri'Cities (Davenport, Rock Isbnd, Moline, E. Moline)—James P. Doyle, '42, 623 Davenport Bank Building. Davenport, low^. 
KANSAS—James E. Foley, '40, International Har­vester Co., 601 W. North St., Salina, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY—Otto J. Mileti, '44, 1428 Audubon Parkway, Louisville, Kentucky. 
LOUISIANA—AVar Orleani-William H. Johnston, '44. 5540 S. Mito St., New Orleans, La. Horthem Louisiana—^James R. Nowery, *29, 5904 Fairfield, Shreveport, La. 
\l.\R\'LASD—Baltimore—^James H. Murray, '41, 
5113 Kenilworth Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
^USS.•^CHUSETTS—JSojIon—John T. Burke, '29, 143 Pinckney St., Suite 535, Boston 14, Mass. Pioneer Valley—.Arthur L. Dcmer^, '35, 17 Gil­lette Ave., Springfield, Mass. 
iMCniGKS-Berrien County—Hr. Paul Leonard, 
•43, 214 S. Lincoln Ave., Niles, Mich. 
Blue Water Dislrict-WWiam L. Wilson, '42, 
4080 Gtittiot .Ave., Port Huron, Michigan. Cen(ra(—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow, Lansing. 
Dearborn—Peter J. Kcrnan, Jr., '49, 4475 W. 
Outer Drive, Detroit, Mich. Detroit—Dr. Harvey F. Brown, '24, 18062 Wildemere, Detroit, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—^John I. 
Flanagan, '35, 635 Lake Drive S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. //;<iao(/iii(iin<f—Gerald E. PavejKo, '41. 401 W. Washington St., Marquette, Mich. Iron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLeon Ave., Ironwood. 
.Wonroc—Thomas E. Griffin, '33, 317 Holly­
wood Dr. .Muskegon—George W. Cannon, Jr.. '36. Inter­laken Rd., North Muskegon. Saginaw Valley—James Kavanagh, '39, 2229 Mc­Kinley, Bay City, Mich. 
MINNESOT.A—flu/uH-Su/j^rior—Wm. E. Colter. Jr.. '41, 114 Laurie St., Duluth. Tuin CJ/JVJ—Patrick A. Dougherty, '50, 1953 Fairmount St., St. Paul 5, Minn. 
.MISSISSIPPI-James Doughert>-, '49, 917 Arling­ton, Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI-A'oiuoj CiO'—(i'o- and Kans.)—Rob­ert Metzler. '44, 5100 Walnut, Kansas Citv, ^fo. St. touii—James J. O'Neal, '42, 536 Oakwood, Webster Groves, St, Louis, Mo. 
NEW JERSEY—Clark L. Reynolds, '38, 93 Low-ill Hill Rd., Mounuiin Lakes, N. J. Cen/rol—Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy, N. J. 
South Jersey—James A. Webb. '48, 1945 49th St., Pennsauken, N. J. 
NEW -MEXICO-Cecil E. Jordan. '40, 4114 E. Marble Ave.. Albuquerque. N. ^I. 
NEW YORK—Bujofo—James T. Clauss. '44, 20 Brendel Ave.. Hamburg. N. Y. Capilal Dislricl—ar. Bernard A. Dully, '33, 336 New Scotland Ave., Albany. N. Y, Ccnlrol—Phillip Kelley. '50. 500 Loew Bldg., Sjiacuse, N. Y. 
Golden Circle—George F. Fitzgerald. '25. 719 ifain St., Olean, N'. Y. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Jo\\n J. Kuhn, '31, 35 
Hammersley Ave., Poughkeepsie, N. Y, Mohawk I'oHo^Louis P. Clark, '34, 31 Whiles­boro St., Yorkvillc, Nc\** York. Kew York Cilj-—Alfred J. Perrine, Jr., '41, 106-06 3lst Ave., East Elmhunt, N. Y. Roehester—Jobn F. Heagney, '44, 120 Whileford Rd., Rochester 20, N. Y. 
Schenectady—fxanli M. Linehan, '45, 1257 Glen-wood Blvd., Schenectady, N. Y. 
Triple Cities—Dr. J. Worden Kane, '26, S3 
Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
NORTH CAROLINA—CaroKna—Robert M. Perci­val, '48, 1333 Kings Dr., Charlotte, N. C. 
OHIO—Jiron—Steve Wozniak, '28, 1201 First National Tower, Akron, Ohio. Canton—Charles J. Kennedy, '49, 1613 Cherry Ave. N.E. 
Cincinnod"-John W. Fead, '48, 8432 Wcklow Ave., Cincinnati 36, Ohio. Cleudanif-Florence J. McCarthy, Jr., '32, 1413 Wagar Ave., Lakewood, Ohio. Columtui-John D. Igoe, '28, 2454 Kensington Rd., Columbus, Ohio. 
Day/on—Samuel J. Gibbons, '35, 601 E. Monu­
^.l; ment, Dayton. Ohio. Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan. '41, 744 Main St.. 
Hamilton. Ohio Valley—CeOTRe J. Sargtis, '28, No. 1 Oak Park, Wheeling, W. Va. Sondmty—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 3413 S. Colimibiu Ave. 
Toledo—^James Murtagh. '48, 3112 Keuwood 
Blvd., Toledo, Ohio. Youngsto'xn—^William G. Lyden, Jr., '50, 177 Brooldine Avenue. 
OKL.-UIOMA—OWoAo/na Ci/>—Edwaird S. Kav­anaugh, '38, 4809 No. Thompson, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Tii/M-Charles A. McNamaro, Jr., '39, 621 E. 
Cameron, Tulsa. 
OREGON-Thomas J. .^fagee, '32, 3016 N.E. 54lh Ave., Portland. 
PENNSYLVANIA — Centra/ Pennsylvania — Primo 
V. Lusardi, '50, 521 Pine St., HoUidaj-sbutg, Pa. Bislcra—l.eo R. McIntyTC, '28, 3004 Turner St., Allentown. 
£ric—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 703 Ariel Bldg. Wormturfi—Louis C. O'Brien, '47, 1039 S. 13th St., Haixisburs, Pa. Monongahela Valley — Adolph V. Capano, '26, 733 ^lcKean Ave.. Donora. Philadelphia—John P. Dempsey. '49. 2028 S. 57th St., Philadelphia. 
i';ilj6iircA—Laurence R. Smith, '33, 1003 Park 
Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. Scranton—^John A. Kramer, '43, 121 Chestnut St., Dunmore, Pa. 
Il'ilt«-Barr<r—Thomas M. Higgins, '34, 262 S. 
River St., Wilkes-Barre, Fa. lfi«iamj<ior/—William R, Downs, '10. 1013 Thompson, Jersey Shore, Pa. 
RHODE ISL.AND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS —Russell L. Hunt, '38, 412 Providence St., IVoonsocket, R. I. 
TENNESSEE — Chattanooga — Thomas B. Owen, '35, 40M Wiley Ave. 
Memphis—W. James TvTell, '49, 416 Cecelia 
Drive, Memphis. 
TEXAS—Oallni-Dr. Lloyd C. Bellamy, '32, 4201 HetMhel St., Dallas, Te-x. B Paso—Rohen E. O'Malley, '44, 2007 N. Flor­ence St. HouJIon—Paul J. Doyle, '3S, 3722 Colquett, Houston, Te-x. San Jnlonio—Ralph T. Struhs, '50. 376 Read-well Dr.. San Antonio. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallii-an. '37. 1017 Kearns Bldy.. Salt Lake City. 

VIRGINIA — Charles M. Morrison. '38. Pump House Road. Richmond. 77Aaa/<-<—Phillip D. Russo, '49, 7314 Hampton Blvd., Apt. 2-B, Norfolk. Virsinia. i 
W.-^SHINGTON-^poinnt-Frank Herron. '35. N. 2304 Normandie. Spokane. Wash. Il'«lern—Patrick J. Goggin. '30. 5723 37th Ave. N.E., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Donald G. Leis, "42, 416 Nel­son St., St. Albans, West Virginia. 
WISCO.NSIN—/••« River KcHo—Gus A. Zuehlke, '43, 807 Prospect Ave., Appleton, Wb. Green Boj—William F. Ker^vin, Jr., '40, 414 E. Walnut St., Green Bay, Wis. /.aCrosK-Robert B. Hackner, '43, 320 S. 17th St., LaCrosse. .Wifanullw—WiUiam G. Doucetle, '43, 2973 N. 49th St., Milwaukee, Wis. South Ccnirol—Philip H. Schwarz, '51, 2612 
.Arbor Dr.. Madison, Wis. 
HAWAII —Thomas Hopkins, '30, Ft. Shaffer. Oaku. T. H. 
FOREIGN CLUBS: Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. 
Cuba—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man) 
Calle 8 Num 35 Miramar, Hax-ana. Manila—Enrique Brias, '37, c/o Roxas y Com­pania, Soriano Bldg., Manila, Philippines. 
.Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio 
Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama—William J. Sheridan, *34, Box 66, An-con. Canal Zone. Peru—Andres Malatesta, '23, Cailloma 376, Lima, Peru, South America. 
Puerto Rico—Paul F. McManus, '34. (key ram) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Jnu. 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA FRKSS 








