The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

The Notre Dame 
ALUMNUS 
Vol. 24 APRIL. 1946 No. 2 
Father O'Donnell Addresses Student Convocation, Navy Drill Hall, March 22,1946. (See Page 7) 
m^i 
.vm 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
As He knelt there utterly and bitterly alone, He saw us individually down through, the centuries very clearly. He 


AUufuu Reli^ioiU BuUetin 
saw our infidelities and betrayals. =Br KET. JOUN F. I.TKCH, C.S.C., -U: 
BADDTS CABIN 
Kentucky has given bourbon whiskey and fast horses to the world but to Notre Dame it gave Father Badin. 
It was he, a secular priest and the first priest or­dained in the United States (1793), who la­bored throughout Kentucky, Ohi o and Indiana. He built the cradle of Notre Dame, the Log Chapel, and bought some land surx-ounding the lakes for a
IVktber I-Tiieh future school. 
That chapel and land was later given to our Father Sorin when he desired to start a' school. 
On our most recent tour, giving voca­tional lectures, we visited in Loretto, Father Badin's cabin or lodge, still standing, which was his missionary headquarters. The Motherhouse of the Sisters of Loretto has grown up around it, and they treasure this shrine as we do the Log Chapel at Notre Dame and his remains buried therein. 
We spent two days of rest and inspira­tion there with Father Alan Heiser,' C.S.C, the sisters' chaplain. 
When desiring to imbibe more of Ken­tucky's famous spirit, we cut across the hills 12 miles (by-passing the numerous distilleries) to famous Gethsemane, the home of the Trappists' monks, for a three-day retreat. 
There in union with other priests, and laymen too, making visits or retreats, we received the renowned hospitality and courtesy the Trappists extend to guests. 
A guest is given sufficient food and sleep and above all spiritual nourish­ment. 
NO SOUR-PDSSES 

Knowing their extremely rigorous, as­cetical life, you might expect to see Trappists with long faces, sour faces, faces of men who hate life and the world. 
Sour-pusses at Gethsemane? If on your visit you can find one, I'll eat their restricted diet: no meat, fish, eggs: only vegetables, barley coffee, black bread, soups, etc., and darn little of those. 
The guest-master converses freely with guests. The others don't speak to guests or to each other. They never speak, but you don't have to ask them if they're happy. 
Their faces, eyes especially, almost shout the answer. 
There is a Holy Cross priest here. Many of you know him. (I won't men­tion his name until he has completed his novitiate, about eight months more of a two-year novitiate or trial.) 
A 64-year-old pastor from a very large city just entered: likewise 10 or 12 service men, including a former chap­lain, several officers and enlisted men. 
They are joining the ones already here —priests and Brothers—^to live a life of constant prayer and work. From 2 a.m. until 7:30 p.m. they are constantly en­gaged in prayer, work in the fields or shops and mortification. ' 
Some misunderstanding non-Catholics think that a useless life: better, they say, to be out preaching or teaching. 
Catholics who know the necessity of reparation know there isn't a more u.se­ful life in the world than this—offering reparation for the sins of the world to a wounded and outraged God. Their lives are unceasing prayers of adoration to our Heavenly Father and of expiation for the sins of men. 
OUB GETHSEMANE 
Reparation is their life: Gethsemane is their home. 
But the Trappists can't do it all. Every one of us has a duty of repara­tion too. 
We must perform it here on earth or in Purgatory. 
AVe can't all become Trappists but we can and must enter Gethsemane. 
And Christ from His agony in Geth­semane asks us to do so. He asks us to take our place by His side—^to watch and pray and suffer with Him and for Him—^in the place of the Apostles who slept. 
But He also saw very clearly our fi­delities and loyalties, our devotion and reparation: our bearing of our cross for Him and with Him. 
Every one of us has some cross .we must face which we fear or dislike as He did in Gethsemane. . 
It may be some denial or sacrifice to avoid sin; it may be our daily work; it may be the children or the boss or the wife; anjrthing that goes against our will or ease is our cross. 
We can possibly run away from it, as Christ was tempted to do. 
Or We can face it like a man as "He did out of love for His Father and for love of us, His brothers. 
"Father, if it be possible, let this chal­ice pass from me: yet not my will but Thine be done." 
If we accept it in reparation out of love for Him, and His Father—God's will be done—we take our place by His side in Gethsemane. 
TBAPPISTS AU! 
The Holy Father's Encyclical on the Sacred Heart stated that our sacrifices entailed in avoiding sin today, our prayers, our crosses and mortifications borne today in reparation for love of Christ and in memory of His Agony in Gethsemane, date back and gave Him consolation, comfort and solace as He knelt in Gethsemane. 
His Passion continues, every day He is being crucified anew by sin. His Pas­sion continues. His agony in the Garden continues in so far as. we can offer Him a needed and appreciated reparation to­day. 
We don't become Trappists in the strict sense but we do go to Gethsemane when we face and offer our trials, our crosses in reparation to Him, with Him and for Him. 
.. . in the Mass. 
.. . In the morning offering, "Jesus, through the Immaculate Heart of Mary, I offer you my prayers, works and suffer­ings this day in reparation for my sins, for all the intentions of Thy Sacred Heart and in union with the Holy Sacri­fice of the Mass throughout the world." 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hiis magazine is published bi-monthly by the tJniverdty of Kotre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as aeeond claas natter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the Postofiice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Uember of the American Ahmmi CoondL 
James E. Azmstiong. '25. Editor: WUliam B. DOOIST. '28. Managing Editor 
Vol. 24 APRIL, 1946 No. 2 
Dr. Carlton J. H. Hayes Laetare Medalist 
The Laetare Medal for 1946, tradi­tional honor bestowed annually by the University on the outstanding American Catholic, -was awarded to Dr. Carlton J. 
H. Hayes, internationally distinguished historian, author and diplomat. 
Notre Dame honored Dr. Hayes once before, in 1921, with the honorary de­gree of Doctor of Laws, in recognition of his achievements as a historical scho­lar. He has been Seth Low Professor at Columbia University since 1936, and has been visiting professor at Chicago, Cali­fornia, Stanford and Johns Hopkins Universities. 
President Roosevel t appointed Dr. Hayes United States Ambassador to Spain in 1942. During some of the most critical days of the war. Dr. Hayes rend­ered extremely meritorious service at Madrid, not only for the United States, but also for the Allied cause in general. When he resigned in 1945, warm tribute to his service was paid by President Roosevelt, State Department and other government officials familiar with Span­ish problems. Dr. Hayes's book. Wartime Mission to Spain, in which he describes his experiences and observations at the Madrid Embassy, is a current best-sel­ler. 
During World War I, Dr. Hayes served as a captain of military intelli­gence on the Army General Staff. Since 1929, he has been Catholic Co-Chairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He is a former president of the American Catholic Historical Asso­ciation, a former member of the execu­tive council of the American Historical Association, and a former member of the executive council of the Foreig^n Policy Association. 
Noted Historian, Former U. S. Ambas­sador to Spain, and Long-time Convert is Aggressive Champion of Catholic Ideals 
IRev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the Department of History at Notre Dame, has long been an intimate friend of Dr. Hayes. In the article folloiving 
(ivritten expressly for the Notre Dame "Scholastic" and reprinted here by per­mission) Father McAvoy reveals the character and genius of this year's medalistl 
Professor Carlton J. Hayes, the recipi­ent of the 1946 Laetare Medal, is the most distinguished of several American historians whose scholarly paths have led to the doorway of Mother Church. And his life in the Church has been much like that of the chief American convert of a century ago, Orestes A. Brownson, not one of peaceful repose after reaching a haven but one of active service of truth with every faculty at his command. He represents the true ideal of the Catholic layman who faithfully carries on his duties in public and private life with a zeal that is not only honorable in the eyes of all good citizens but meritorious in the sight of God and the Church. He is a master of his art, a dear and force­ful teacher and writer who can analyze the currents of modem history and g^ive an intelligent appreciation of its accom­plishments. Those who have heard him speak know that he can'speak forcefully in any controversy, particularly becanse of his command of historical fact. 
Bood biniMU into tho Faith 

Dr. Hayes was not bom into the Faith, nor did he arrive at his strong convic­tions by theoretical deductions. On one occasion he spoke of the great possibili­ties of a young man who was.entering the historical field with a baekgronnd of Catholic philosophy and theology. But such was not the way he entered the field of history. Using the historian's technique of adding fact to fact, he has, however, built extensive knowledge of the processes of history which is also comprehensive becanse of its detaO. Yet, he says «iost sincerely that his philoso­phy of history is that of St. Augustine, particularly as set forth in the first books of The City of God. 
In his teaching at Colombia Univer­sity and in his writings he has added to the old notion of history as simply past politics the fullness of the cultural and the spiritual which has changed recent American history textbooks to account rather for the whole man than for a po­litical animal. In so doing, however, he has successfully resisted the dangerous tendency to make history a merely prag­matic study of contemporary civiliza­tion. 
Ktlor bnnMd Hoyo^ books Long before the war trials of Nurem­berg, Dr. Hayes condemned the extremes of nationalism. As he once humorondy remarked, he wrote his Essays on Na­tionaUsin and Historical Evolution of 
Modern Nationalism too soon. Fifteen years afterward less-competent -writers reaped popular acclaim for discovering what he had exposed so early in the cen­tury. Hitler, however, did honor him by having his books burned. Although op­posed to extreme nationalism, Professor Hayes has constantly served his coun­try with true patriotism, especially in World War I and World War II. In the preliminary struggle to the second war he had been an interested but impartial observer of the Spanish Civil War and when such a person was needed for the critical post of Ambassador to Spain be­fore our invasion of Africa, he left his scholar's sanctum to give his services to President Roosevelt. The value of his work at Madrid was great in the saving of human lives alone. In this as in all his earlier labors Dr. Hayes was not pushed about by partisan clamor, and his recent book on his wartime mission contains the same calm exposition of fact which has ever been characteristic of his teaching and writing. 
The Professor has been a busy man and has spent long hours at his books, but he has never been too busy to help the young aspiring student. His stu­dents, as his close friend and best pupil, the late Parker T. Moon, testified, might wince at his insistence on dates and facts but they could be sure of a fatherly in­terest in all they did accomplish. He and his charming wife, who has shared so completely in his labors, welcome the young Catholic scholar to their home. 
Active among Christians and Jews 

There are two characteristics of Dr. Hayes which should especially endear him to Catholic college students. The first, is his love of justice and truth. He has been one of the most active workers in the National Conference of Christians and Jews. He insists on justice for all and has been the soundest opponent of the stupid national and racial prejudice which have caused most modem wars and persecutions. The second character­istic is his great and deep interest in Catholic college students whether they study within or without Catholic insti­tutions. Not only by his fine example but by word and deed he is constantly work­ing for the day when the Catholic lay leader will have proportionate represen­tation in the civil, the social, and espe­cially the intellectual life of the country. 
AWARD TO NOTRE DAME 

First prize for outstanding work in sculpture at the Hoosier Art Salon in Indianapolis, Ind., has been awarded to Eugene Kormendi, distinguished sculp­tor and professor of Fine Arts at Notre Dame. The work which won the award is a black walnut carving of St. Francis. 
September Registration Closed 
Returning N. D. Vets Are Only Exceptions 
Registration at the University for the Fall semester beginning in Septem­ber has been closed to all applicants other than former Notre Dame students returning from the armed services, it was announced on April 11 by the Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C, Notre Dame registrar. 
Residential facilities of the University are being exploited to the utmost in or­der that Notre Dame can accommodate the maximum number of students. The enrollment for the spring semester which started March 14 was lifted to an all-time peak of 3,402 students, which ex­ceeds by 200 any previous enrollment. 
Thus far Notre Dame has accepted every former Notre Dame student who was in good standing when he left the University to join the armed forces, Father Thornton declared. He stressed that this preference to former students will continue to be shown as long as facilities are available. 
According to Father Thornton, de­cision to close registration for the Fall semester to all applicants other than former Notre Dame students returning from the service was prompted by the large number of applications already re­ceived at Notre Daine for the Fall term. The University will be able to accom­modate approximately one thousand ad­ditional students in the Fall semester. Up to April 11, 784 applications had been received from former students, now veterans, and more 2,000 applica­tions already had been received from other prospective students. 
These applications, more than twice the number which actually can be accom­modated at Notre Dame, made it impera­tively necessary at this time to announce the closing of registration to all except former Notre Dame students. 
Catholic Hour Addresses by President 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C.. President of the Uni­versity, will give a series of five talks over the Catholic Hour, starting April 28, it has been announced by the National Council of Catholic Men, which sponsors the Catholic Hour in co-operation with the National Broadcasting Company. 
The Catholic Hour is broadcast at 6 P.M., Eastern Time, every Sunday, over the N.B.C. Network. 
Father O'Donnell will speak on the general subject of "HatI Holy Queen!" The individual titles of his Ulks will be: April 28—"Our Country's Queen;" May 5—"The Merciful Mother;" May 12—^"Less Sun Worship;" May 19 —"Why the Madonna;" and May 26—^"All Through the Years." 
Volume 24, No. 2, April, 1946 
Veterans Are Half Current Student Body 
Returning to Environment They Know, Vets Adjust Themselves Readily; Incoming Men Are Assisted at 
Semester's Start by Those Here Previous 
This spring the veteran is the domi­nant figure at Notre Dame. During the war years the blues and greens of Navy and Marine Corps uniforms prevailed. But, like the rest of the country, Notre Dame is converting to peace, and, along with the University's re-conversion, some 1,600 students are getting used to new problems and a new way of life. 
The veterans make up half of the entire student body, but so rapidly and so successfully are they adjusting that Notre Dame is not appreciably different from the Notre Dame of pre-war years. 
The gold buttons — ruptured ducks, stalled-out eagles; call them what you wll — are much in evidence, but not ag­gressively so. There is no air of superi­ority, no chip - on - the - shoulder traits among these veterans. The most charac­teristic attitude is the one that demands a normal treatment: to be looked on, as every student is, with respect and fair­ness and sympathy for personal prob­lems. They demand no especial concern for their unique war-veteran problems, but they would like to be recognized as having the same every-day cares and worries that are the heritage of every college student. 
The present necessary adjustment is much easier than the one that these men made in the original transition from the civilian to the military way of life. In this one, at least, they are returning to an environment they knew before, not being thrust violently and indiscrimi­nately into situations entirely new. For almost half of them it js a return to Notre Dame itself; for all of them it is a renewal of the ways of peaceful nor­mality. 
More than a third of all the veterans at the University were here last term. To these has fallen the task of orientat­ing the new ones. When the registration for this term began on March 11, infor­mation tables were set up at various points on the campus. They were manned by veterans who sought to give aid to 
By EDWARD B. KUNKLE. '43 
Former Captain, AAF 

pus Veteran's Club has planned an ex­tensive program of both religious and social events for the spring term. Three veterans' retreats are being held before Easter, and the first of a series of smokers was held during registration week. 
The veterans are neither much better nor much worse in scholastic achieve­ment than the non-veteran students. Their average age is greater and there is evidence of a more serious determina­tion, but these things are balanced by the fact that all of them have been away from classrooms for two or three or even four years. It takes these men a little longer to get back into the groove of study, but few have failed. 
One problem rather unique at Notre Dame is that presented by the married veteran who has come to South Bend with his family. Housing, already seri­ously short in the area, has become crit­ical with the influx of a couple of hun­dred new families. Many students are living in hotel rooms or in single rooms 
 Term. 
of private homes; the more fortunate have small apartments or houses. The promise of FPHA housing units' for use by veterans is a bright spot on the other­wise gloomy picture, but the 117 units will not be ready for occupancy much before the end of the present term. 
Just as in pre-war days, the students at Notre Dame came from every part of the country, so now these veterans have records in every branch of the service. The Army, the Navy, the Marines, and the Coast Guard all can claim men now at Notre Dame as ex-members. On the campus can be seen field jackets and flight jackets, the olive drab of the Army, the Navy and Marine Corps, GI shoes and paratroop boots. Here are a few of the men who were tiny cogs in the giant American war machine: 
Twenty-four-year-old James D. Sulli­van, a flying fortress pilot with ten mis­sions against the enemy to his credit. He wants to be a lawyer. Back injuries and battle fatigue sidelined James J. Dougherty as he fought with the 34th 
the more that 900 students coming to This in these days is one of the campus' busiest spots, tho Offieo of Voteraiia the campus for the first time. The cam­Aiioirs, headed by Hev. lohn J. Lane, CS.C whoso privato office is at tho right 
infantry division through Africa and Italy. Twenty-seven years old, he is a light heavy-weight boxing champion at the University. Ex-paratrooper Herbert 
A. Gessler, fought all over Europe and counts himself lucky never to have been wounded. 
Benny R. Kozlik hit the cindered, bloody beach of Iwo Jima with the Fifth Marine division. He is 20, and a Physical Education freshman. Twenty-flve-year­old James A. Clemens Jr., is a survivor of the Munda campaign and saw the fight in the Pacific through to the Japa­nese homeland. David Skory, a junior at Notre Dame, was a naval air corps bombardier during the war, but thinks the practice of law will be exciting too. 
Thomas A. Howley, 21, served on an LST and was in the invasion of France. He hopes to play basketball and run on the track team at Notre Dame. Robert 
W. Numbers, 22, was a motor torpedo boat crewman in the Mediterranean for two years or so. Lawrence W. Barrett fought with the famous Second (Hell on Wheels) division of the First and Ninth Armies in Europe and never got a scratch in battle. James A. Webb was on the first shuttle raid from England to Russia, with bomb deposits en route. His flying fortress was knocked do^^^^ on Webb's 15th mission and he passed 10 months as a prisoner of war of the Germans. 
There are nearly 1,700 of the veterans here this term, and it is thought that the number will rise above 2,000 for the fall semester. Whether or not this group, so great a part of the whole student body, will have a changing effect on the University remains to be seen. It is al­most certain that the ways of Notre Dame will have a great and lasting effect on them. 
CONVOCATION 

The last "war-time" semester con­vocation at Notre Dame, held Feb. 27, saw 82 graduates receive degrees. Seven­teen of the graduates, members of the NROTC, then at sea were not present at the exercises. 
Almost 800 persons were present in Washington Hall to witness the com­bined graduation and commissioning of ensigns. Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C., professor of religion and student coun­selor, delivered the commencement address. 
The full day of activities beginning with Mass followed • by Communion breakfast, at 8 o'clock, included a re­ception for graduates and their families in the lounge of the Rockne Memorial. 
Notre Dam* CoiindL Knights o! Columbus, lists its members who cenred in World Wai IL Inspecting the honor roll are Robert E. Sullivan, '40. iriio, after ex­ten^Te service in the war. is bade to complete his law studies, and Rev. Fiands P. GobdoU. C.S.C.. '20. council chaplain. Led by Grand Knight SulliTon. the local council is in the forefront of postwar student activity on the campus. 
THE BURNS SCHOLARSHIPS 

As announced by the ALUMNUS in October, 1945, 15 scholarships estab­lished by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, from the Second Annual Alumni Fund proceeds, in memory of the late Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, '88, are now in effect. 
The armed forces have aifected the selection and attendance in a few in­stances, but alumni will be interested to know that at the present writing, the five holders of the ?500 per term resi­dential Boms scholarships are: John F. Allwein, Lebanon, Fa., Lebanon Cath­olic High School, in the college of arts and letters; George R. Schrodt, Louis­ville, Ky., St. Xavier High School, college of science; James T. Clancy, Pittsburgh, Pa., Central Dist. Catholic High School, college of engineering; Michael P. Swingle, Houston, Texas, St. Thomas High School, college of engineering; and Robert M. Riordan, Ludington, Mich., Aquinas High of Columbus, O., college of engineering. 
The ten holders of the $200 tuitional 

"per term scholarships are: Frank T. Callahan, Swedesboro, N. J., LaSalle College, Philadelphia, college of Engi­neering; Charles Kersgeiter, St. Louis, Mo., McBride High (now in the army); Samuel J. Hazo, Pittsburgh, Central Dist Catholic High School, college of arts and letters; Joseph M. White, Phila­delphia, LaSalle College, college of arts and letters; John E. Guendling, South Bend, Central Catholic, college of arts and letters; Charles Pendarvis, Houston, 
. Texas, St. Thomas High, college of arts and letters; Richard C. Tardiff, Water-ville. Me., Clinton High, (army); Tho­mas S. Riordan, Ludington, Mich., Aqui-' nas High of Columbus, O., college of engineering; William G. Knorr, Buffalo, 
N. Y., Canisius High, college of en^­neering; and Donald A. Klene, Burling­ton, la., college of law. 
CALLAHAN IS NAMED 

Appointment of Charles M. Callahan, '38, of Lexington, Mass., as an assistant director of publicity at the University, was announced by Rev. J. Hugh O'Don­nell, C.S.C, president, in February. Be­fore entering the Army, where he spent 40 months, mostly in public relations work, before his discharge in January, Charlie did publicity work for the New York World's Fair, the National Sports-mens' Show, the Boys' Club of New York and the New York Football Amer­icans. During the 1945 football season he handled publicity for the Second Air Force Superbombers' team at Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Volume 24, No. 2, April, 1946 
This Is Our Country' 
By REV. J. HUGH O'DONNELL. C.S.C. President of the University 
(See picture on front cover of this issue) 
"As many of you know, and as the new students will soon learn, Notre Dame is a firm believer in tradition, and it is traditional for the president of the University to address the student-body at least once a year. But I have something more than tradition in mind this morning. First of all, to the old students among you, I want to say, 'It's good to see you back.' And for those of you who are at Our Lady's School for the first time, I have a warm welcome too. My sincere wish is that your years under the Golden Dome will be happy and fruitful ones. 
Welcome to Veterans 

"In a family such as ours there can be no favorites. Still, I think you will understand when I say that Notre Dame's warmest welcome this morning must go to her sons who left school to join the armed forces, and who have now come back as veterans to the cam­pus they love so dearly. To you, I say, 'Welcome home.' As I told you *o often in my letters, you have never been out of our thoughts and prayers. And may I add here that I deeply appreciate the hundreds of letters that I received from you. They illustrate the bond that exists between the Notre Dame man and his Alma Mater. With us, out of sight does not mean out of mind. Hence, I think it very fitting for us to pay tribute to our 304 valiant sons who will never return to this campus. I ask, therefore, that all of you bow your heads in a minute of silent prayer for those brave young men who made the supreme sacri­fice for our beloved country. 
"We are now beginning our first peacetime semester, and as you are well aware, Notre Dame is bursting at the seams because of the large enrollment. I shall not dwell upon the inconveniences of getting under way, because you know all about them. You have spent a lot of time standing in line. You .are familiar with the congestion in the din­
* An address by Father O'Donnell at a general convocation of students in the Navy Drill Hall on Friday morning, March 22,191,6. 
ing halls, the residence halls, and the classrooms. These difficulties will be ironed out in time. Meanwhile, I want to commend you on the spirit in which you have co-operated with administra­tion and faculty in a difficult time. 
"I know that co-operation will con­tinue to the mutual benefit of all. Should you wish to make suggestions, make them, by all means. The University not only receives, but welcomes, suggestions when they are made through the proper channels. Your proper channel is the Student Council, which has the confi­dence of the University. It was estab­lished many years ago 'for the further­ance of co-operation between the stu­dents and the officers of administration to the end that the interests of both students and the University may be pro­moted.' The Student Council is the only group that can speak officially for the students. The administration recog­nizes no other. Therefore, any observa­tions, suggestions, or recommendations that you care to make should be made to this body through its moderator, the Prefect of Discipline, who will present them to Notre Dame's highest govern­ing body, the University Council. 
"And by way of strong parenthesis, I wish to commend the Student Council on the excellent manner in which it con­ducted the recent drive for the relief of the children of the war-stricken coun­tries o/ Europe. Also, my gratitude to the students generally for their very generous response. The words of the Master come to mind: 'As long as you did it to one of these, the least of my brethren, you did it unto Me.' God will reward you for your kindness. 
Dangerous Trend in U. S. 

"With these preliminaries out of the way, for the next few minutes I am going to indulge in some plain speaking. What I have to say is not a matter of academic theory, but of practical con­ditions, and, to use the vernacular, I feel that you should know what the score is. You should be made aware of a dangerous trend in the United States that threatens everything we fought for in World War II. 
"The fact is that the war was only part of a world revolution. The ravoln­tion is still going on. W* won the war. Whether or not w* shall win tlw ravo-Intion remains to be seen. We aught as well be realistic We might as well admit that althongh the warM is wall rid of one kind of totalitarianisni, it is still beset by another virions ideology that has the same depraved disregard, the same callons contempt for the sacredness and dignity of the human personality that the Nazis' and Fascists had. The ideology that 1 refer to is Communism. 
"I know that sometimes it is a little too easy to over-simplify issues that con­cern human beings and their relation­ships one to another, whether as nations or as individuals. I am not a profes­sional 'viewer-with-alarm.' Yet I see, as many others do, the formation of a world pattern that is completely at odds with the only principles upon which a just and lasting peace may be built. We have seen the pattern before. The battle line is drawn. The opposing philoso­phies are arrayed against each other now just as they were when Hitler's Nazi forces first struck at vrestem civili­zation. The one difference is that our enemy has changed its name. 
« 
One Side Recognizes God 

"On the one side are those who be­lieve in the American—^and Christian— philosophy. They shape their lives by it in the light of the life to come. They recognize God the Creator; they accept the natural law which has its source in God the Supreme Lawgiver; they recog­nize natural rights of persons flowing from that law; and, finally, they ac­knowledge the inherent dignity and in­tegrity of the human person because of these God-given rights. For my part, I must conclude that oar i>art in World War II will have been the most tragic mistake in our history if we compromise the faith of our fathers. 
"On the other side is the philosophy of materialism—or Communism, scient­ism, atheism, or secularism; call it what you will. The ideology is the same, and it is wrong, because it sees man as no more than an animal coming into the 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

world without God or basic morality, existing for a while, and then returning to the nothingness whence it came. It builds a bleak world of totalitarianism in which, man exists for the state, and not the state for man as man's agent for the protection of God's gifts of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. This is • the world of 'state-ism'—of Communist Russia, Nazi Germany, and Fascist Italy. 
"The danger of Communism to Amer­ica is real; it is imminent. True, the Communists in the United States are relatively few in number, but what they lack in numbers they make up in organi­zation. They have a power and an in­fluence far greater than their numerical strength would indicate. 
"They are astute, tough-minded propa­gandists with access to all channels of communication, and amazingly quick and deft at twisting or coloring news so that it will advance the interests of the movement. Of course, one of the most notable examples of the success of Com­munist propaganda is the picture that has been built up of General Francisco Franco. The Franco regime has not been without fault, it is true; but its unforgivable sin seems to be that it beat the Communists in Spain to a standstill.* Perhaps you read with interest, as I did, a comment in a recent issue of "Columbia" by Richard Pattee, who wrote: ' .. . it ought to be borne in mind .. . that in this chorus of con­demnation, we are curiously inconsist­ent in denouncing the sins of Franco and his Spain, while we remain chari­tably silent about the conduct of Swe­den, which for years allowed German troop movements across her territory to enslave Norway. We show a strange understanding of the Swedish predica­ment and a complete refusal to apply the same logic to Spain.' " 
Commuiiiat Tactics 

"One. more illustration of Communist tactics comes to mind. Recently the Russian newspaper "Pravda" made another of its characteristic charges against the Vatican. As usual, "Osserva­tore Romano's" reply was as devastating as an atomic bomb. Undiscouraged, the Communists merely began sniping from another quarter. Now it appears that the thirty-two new. cardinals named by the Holy Father will spread 'reaction­ary' policies throughout the world. 'Re­actionary,' of course, is a generic term for everything Stalin doesn't like, such 
* For an excellent treatment of Spain in World War II. the reader*s attention is directed to Dr. Carlton Hayes* very enffaginK book. Wartime Mission to Spain, Macmillan 1945. 
as Cardinal Spelhnan's forthright pro­nouncements whenever Christian prin­ciples are attacked, or Cardinal Griffin's outspoken opposition to the Yalta agree­ments regarding Poland. And here I am reminded of Hilaire Belloc's classic essay on the subject, written in 1939: 'This war will have been won or lost insofar as Poland is resurrected. The test of victory is Poland.' All the world knows what has actually happened to this great country. To use very strong language, it has been raped by Russia, but, please God, the underground of Poland, as well as her sons and daugh­ters all over the world, will fight to the bitter end for their country's resurrec­tion. 
Plan World Bevolution 
"The Communists plan a world revolu­tion. They know exactly what they want, and they will ride any bandwagon —or subway, for that matter—that will take them closer to their goal. They even give aid to the nations they hope eventually to overthrow—temporary aid, that is—if they feel they are advancing the ultimate cause. For example: 
"Until 1940, when a federal law re­quired the registration of alien-afBIiated organizations, American Communists got their orders directly from the Comintern in Moscow. Did the Communists regis­ter when the law was passed? Not they. Piously, they severed their Moscow con­nections, and a little later Stalin osten­sibly dissolved the Communist Inter­nationale itself. Had Uncle Joe re­formed? Not a bit of it, as we shall see. He was at war then and needed all the help he could get from non-Com­munist nations. He wasn't offending anybody at the moment. He gave up the form, but retained the substance of the Internationale—and he did get heli^^ as we well know. Meanwhile, the Com­munists in the United States were models of patriotic propriety as they helped to win the war. But when the Soviet was no longer in danger, the motive for ctt­operation was gone too. With it, the American Communist policy of sweet­ness and light disappeared completely. 

"Now note the next act in the drama: On July 28, a little more than two months after VE-Day, delegates of the American Communist movement official­ly and unanimously washed their hands of the Communist Political Association, which had been the instrument of their patriotic fervor during the war. Eari Browder, who had been its leader, was deposed and cast into exterior darkness. Who replaced him? None other than William Z. Foster, who had been the most consistent and vociferous opponent of co-operation. At the July meeting the Communists also outlined their post­war program. They determined to take advantage ra economic disturbances, and to revive their penetration into im­portant positions in the American labor movement as well as their agitation among the Negroes and the unemployed. Finally, they will intensify their efforts to establish Russia in the' American mind as the modem economic and political Utopia. 
"This preview of the Communist aims that I have K>*en you is a matter of public record.* How do you like the prospect? Is the war over, or is it mere­ly entering a different phase? It seems to me that at last we have a real Second Front, but the front is here at home. And the enemy is fully as dangerous as the ones we have just defeated on the battlefields. The objective is the same. Communism would destroy the American ^-and.Christian—philosophy .upon which our unique institutions are based. It would destroy the dignity that God gave 
Doctor Cronin Quoted 
"Now lest you think my indictment is too strong, let me quote for you briefly certain excerpts from a recent address by Doctor Cronin, assistant director of the Social Action Department of the National Catholic Welfare Conference: 
'Communists have infiltrated deeply into the Federal Government depart­ments . . . and have penetrated in­fluential Federal post s where the policies of the departments are shaped' . . . Outlining his view of the reputed Russian aggression program. Doctor Cronin charged its aims were: 'to de­stroy the British Empire; to overrun Continental Europe, including France, where Communism already is strong, and Spain to Gibraltar; and to infiltrate in South America.' He expressed the be­lief that it was the Russian program which was the basis for the proposal of the Anglo-American alliance by Winston Churchill in his recent address .. . A strong stand by government now. Doctor Cronin stated, might force Russia to change its plans and thus to saf egfuard Christian civilization in Europe. Best informed opinion is that the Sovet has not made its plans irrevocably but simply is exploiting an appeasement policy by her allies. Firm action now, through diplomatic and economic pres­sure, might save us from the terrors of another war. Now is the time to stop aggression. Tomorrow may be too late. 
* Read Stanley High's article in the Saturday Evening Pott, December 1, 1945. for further ap­preciation of the Communist strategy. 

Volume 24, No. 2, April, 1946 
"Communiim Is the negation of every-thins we stand for as Americans and Christians, and we would be Incredibly stupid to believe that there can be any compromise with it. Communism is a philosophy of anti-God. We must fight it as vigorously as it fights us. We must be as intense, as consistent, as zealous in spreading American and Christian principles as Communism Is in trying to destroy them. We must root out a phil­osophy that threatens civilization based upon the fact of God's creation of the Individual human soul. 
"We strive for peace, and yet there is no peace, and there can be no peace in a world that has forgotten God and the moral law. I say 'the world' and sadly I include the United States because our nation cannot be exculpated. We would do well not to point an accusing finger at any other country because we have been equally remiss—more so, if it be true that to whom much is given much is expected in return. With a thorough­ness and an enthusiasm worthy of a better purpose too many of us have put God out of our schools, out of our government, out of our homes, and out of our hearts. Too many are content with mere lip service to the Christian principles that to our Founding Fathers were not only a way of life, but the only why of life. 
The Answer: Counter Attack 

"Now I know that it Is easy enough to say, 'Things are in a bad way. There's grave danger ahead.' What you and I want to know Is, 'What can we do about It?'" 
"The answer is: Counter attack. The best defense is a good offense based on a sound Idea of what we are 'for' as an alternative to what we are 'against.' In this connection may I remind you that the average neo-pagan Is much more forceful in explaining the aims of his particular misbegotten Ideology than many of us are In explaining the phil­osophy by which we live? When truth is attacked, too many of us are willing to stand smugly by, secure in the knowl­edge that 'Truth is mighty and shall pre­vail'—to which a cynic might add, 'Small thanks to us.' Truth can prevail a great deal sooner, and it will not be attacked with impunity. If It is militantly pro­tected by those whom the truth keeps free. 
"You Notre Dame men with the vet­erans as leaders, can. If you will, begin an active campaign against any and every influence that threatens a govern­ment built upon the truth that man is en­dowed by his Creator with certain un­. alienable rights. First, study these move­ments with a view to negating them. 
Secondly, map a plan of action locally, and then move into the national sphere, through your organization, and also as Individuals when you leave the Univer­sity to begin your life's work elsewhere. Thirdly, be positive rather than nega­tive. That is, I repeat, know what yon are 'for' as well as what you are 'against.' 
"Leadership is expected of all Notre Dame men. Many persons, it is true, have a strange notion of leadership, and as a result define the term too narrowly. We are not all expected to be leaders in the somewhat theatrical sense in which the word is commonly used—nor should we try to be. But each of us can, and as a duty should, make the most of the talents and opportunities that, by God's grace, are ours as we go about our daily tasks. 
Leadership is Expected 

"There is a reason that leadership is expected of Notre Dame men. I said 
•at the outset that Notre Dame is a firm ' believer in tradition. The educational tradition upon which this school was founded more than one hundred years ago bridges twenty centuries. It began when the Apostles first went forth to teach all nations. It includes the found­ing of the great European universities of the thirteenth century which saw the rise of the Schoolmen and the develop­ment of Scholasticism. The heritage was brought across the sea by the mission­ary teachers who transplanted Old World culture—Catholic culture—to the West-. ern Hemisphere. Bom to this tradition, Notre Dame remembers that knowledge of God is the beginning of wisdom. 
"Accordingly, enter into the spiritual program of the campus as real soldiers of Christ. A golden opportunity awaits you. Take advantage of daily Mass and frequent Holy Communion in order that you may prepare yourselves not only for the spiritual combat that confronts all of us, but also for any other challenge that may await you in the years ahead. Notre Dame men stood out as heroes during the recent war, because they had girded themselves for the supreme test of the zero hour. Notre Dame men should likewise be heroes in peace by leading God-fearing lives, supported and strengthened by God's grace and sacra­ments. For If God Is with you, no man can defeat you. Such Is the tradition of the true Notre Dame man. 
"That tradition is now yours, and as the years pass you will grow to know it better and to love it more and more. But it is not enough merely to know. You must be articulate as well, because you cannot intelligently defend what you are unable to define. Much of what is evil in the world is there because vast numbers of people do not know the basic truths you know and take for granted. Part of your task, therefore, is to see that what you know becomes more and more widely known to others. 
"By right thinking and acting—^that is, by. word ^ d example—yon can be­come co-partners in a crusade to bring the world back to the Christian prin­ciples it has so tragically abandoned. We dare not ignore the challenge when so much is at stake. This is the time for action that is positive rather than nega­tive in combating a movement that would destroy the family, the home, the church, and our country itself. The philosophy of anti-God is the enemy from within. But with faith in God, and God in government, we can rout any man-made ideology that would first weaken and then destroy our American heritage. For America is our country to have and to hold. And eternal vigil­ance, as always, is still the price of liberty." 
DAN HANLEy DIES 

Daniel A. Hanley, 76 years old, care­taker and a resident of the Notre Dame gymnasium for 20 years, died on March 2 after an illness of several months. His death came exactly a month after that of Brother Canute, C.S.C, who, like Dan, was one of Notre Dame's most familiar and best loved "characters." 
Dan was known nationally as the keeper and trainer of Clashmore Mike, the Irish terrier mascot of the Notre Dame football teams. But on the cam­pus he was better known, and deeply admired, for his intense religious spirit. Every.morning, until illness forced him to the hospital, he served a six o'clock Mass in the Basement Chapel. And every special service in the "big church" found him present. 
The football team had a guardian in Dan. A few days before the opening game of the season, Dan would slip a ten-dollar bill into the hands of the Prefect of Religion and ask him to ar­range for a Mass to be offered every Saturday of the schedule, "that the boys won't get hurt, and the tenth Mass in thanksgiving." 
"Notre Dame and a generation of her students mourn the passing of the saint­ly Irishman. . . . God alone knows the souls that were saved by the prayers of the quiet figure that knelt erect in spite of his years and thumbed his prayer­book and rosary in the church and in his room." 
Dan is survived by two sisters. He was buried in Houghton, Mich., where he had been bom. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Faculty Members are Added 
Other Professors Return to Campus from Armed Forces 
Five new members of the faculty be­gan teaching at Notre Dame at the start of the current semester. They are Dr. Ernest E. Sandeen, assistant professor of English; Dr. Nicholas Schanck, assist­ant professor of Modem Language; Dr. Thomas E. Downey, instructor of His­torj'; Richard E. Ball, instructor of Busi­ness Administration and Rolf Scheurer, music instructor. 
Dr. Sandeen, a specialist in, Elizabeth­an and American Literature, has dis­tinguished himself in the field of letters. He was awarded the Hunnold Scholar­ship which enabled- him to spend two years at Oxford University in England, where he specialized in English. A graduate of Knox College, Galesburg, ni.. Dr. Sandeen served as instructor of English at Knox from 1935 to 193T. After receiving a doctorate degree from the University of Iowa in 1940, he re­mained at Iowa as instructor in English from 1940 to 1943, when he began act­ive duty with the Navy. Fi-om April, 1943, to January, 1946, he was an aviation specialist in the Navj- with the rank of lieutenant. 
A specialist in Gei-man and French, Dr. Schanck has taught at St. Louis Uni­versity, St. Francis College, Loretto, Pa., and the University of Kansas City. His undergraduate work was done at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland and the University of Utrecht, Holland. He received his doctorate degree in modern language from the University of Bonn, Germany, in 1924, and came to the United States in the same year. 
Dr. Downey, recipient of the Harri­son Mills Traveling Fellowship in Inter­national Relations in 1940-41, received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1933 and his Master of Arts degree in 1934, both from Loyola University. After study­ing under Dr. Herbert Bolton, Spanish-American history expert, he received his doctorate at the University of California in 1941. He served as instnictor of History at Quincy College, Quincy, HI., from 1934 to 1936. He is the author of a history, "Central America under Mexi­can Rule," and has ready for publica­tion, "Guide to the Archives of Guate­mala." 
Mr. Ball, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1941, recently received a discharge from the Navy with the rank of lieu­tenant. He served as instructor at the Naval Indoctrination School at Fort Schuyler, N. Y., and later as executive and navigating officer of the LST 611. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, Mr. Ball received his Master of Arts degree from Indiana University in 1942. 
Mr. Scheurer, who specializes in musi­cal composition, served as music instruc­tor at the Chestnut Hill academy in Philadelphia, for three years. He at­tended the University of Minnesota from 1936 to 1939. 
In 1939 he was awarded a scholarship in composition to study under the ma­estro, Rosario Scalero, at the Curtis In­stitute of Music in Philadelphia, Pa. He received a bachelor of music degree from the institute in 1944. 
Mr. Scheurer's mother, Mrs. Swanhild Johnson Scheurer, is a pianist. His father Karl Scheurer is violin soloist of the Minneapolis Symphony orchestra. 
Well known professors returned to the 
campus as the semester opened. Among 
them were: 
Di-. John J. Fitzgerald, professor of 
philosophy. Dr. E. Lawrence Powers, as­
sistant professor of biology, Frank T. 
Flynn, professor in the Department of 
Sociology, Stephen H. Ronay, professor 
of English, Francis J. Hanley, assistant 
pr-ofessor of art, Guy H. McMichael, as­
sistant professor of business administra­
tion, and Robert B. Riordan, professor 
of economics. 
Dr. Fitzgerald, who originally joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1937, entered the Navy in 1942 and served as a lieu­tenant until his discharge recently. Dr. Powers was granted a leave of absence in May, 1945, to undertake special work for the Board of Coordination of Medi­cal Studies. This board, sponsored by the United States Government, was or­ganized to integrate all research activi­ties on malaria. Professor Flynn entered the Navy in 1942 and served in the .A.rmed Guard and as prison administra­tion o-Jncer until his discharge early this year. 
Professor Ronay, entering the service early in the war, served in the Army Air Forces and was discharged as a cap­tain last December. Professor Hanley, served a long period with the Navy, mostly in the Mediterranean. Professor McMichael also served with the Navy and returned home in February. Profes­sor Riordan, a reserve officer in the Army for many years prior to being called to active duty in the early part of 1941, entered service as a major. He was released from active duty as a col­onel early this year. 
CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS 
Under the newly adopted Constitution of the Alumni Association, the regular provision for the election of directors for the Association will become effective this calendar year, 1946. 
A committee, consisting of John T. Balfe, '20, New York City, E. Bradley Bailey, '22, Baltimore, and John T. Hig­gins, '22, Detroit, are preparing the new by-laws of the Association. Both Con­stitution and By-Laws will be printed in the ALUMNUS when completed. 
The ALUMNUS calls attention to sev­eral pertinent facts, indicated by corre­spondence from interested members. First, the by-laws committee will in all probability cover several objections made to the Constitution, which was deliberately left general and somewhat elastic by the Constitutional Revision Committee to permit more rapid growth of the Association. 
Secondly, because of the vital pro­grams such as placement, the alumni fund, the reviving of Local Clubs, the restoring of Class Reunions, etc., it was deemed much more advisable to move slowly, putting the new regulations into effect for 1947, than jeopardize the present progressive program of the As­sociation by a sudden change of direct­ors earlier in this transition period. 
The ALUMNUS would like to take the liberty of remarking that the extended wartime service of the present Board of Directors has been an imposition on their talents and generosity and has caused the Board membership considerable sacrifice over and above the normal de­mands of such offices. The Board it­self will undoubtedly welcome the in­auguration of the machinery of the new Constitution and by-laws, which begins with the appointment of nominating committees in September of 1946. 
MCCARTHY SILVER ANNIVERSARY 
In recognition of a quarter century of unbroken service to the University, Dean James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce was honored on Feb. 18 at a testimonial dinner presented jointly by the Commerce faculty and the Com­merce Forum. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president, and Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C, director of studies, repre­sented the University, paid tribute to the honor guest for his leadership in the development of the college. Judson 
S. Sayre, president of Bendix Home Appliances, Inc., South Bend, was the principal speaker. 

Dean McCarthy joined the faculty in 1921 and became dean of the College of Commerce two years later. 
Volume 24, No. 2, April, 1946 Capt. Ckaries O. Fishar, ex. '41, In­
FOR SOD, COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME 
dianapolis, missing in action in Europe^ for more than a year, was declared dead 
IN GLORY EVERLASTING 
by the War Department, it was an-
Matter T/Sgt. Charles M. Walsh, '27, 
East Liverpool, O., died in February in 
Feiping, China. Charlie was stationed in 
China with a Marine unit and it was 
thought, in the absence of definite in­
formation, that complications from an 
illness in January was the cause of his 
death. 
Charlie enlisted in the Marine Corps 
in 1942 at the age of 38 and went over­
seas in August, 1944, with the Marine 
night fighters. He was attached to 
Squadron 24 of the Marine headquarters 
at Peiping at the time of his death. Be­
sides his widow he leaves a year-old son, 
Charles M. Walsh, Jr., and an aunt. 
William Kyle Donnell, ex. '38, San 
Antonio, Texas, died Nov. 24 in Brooke 
General Hospital in San Antonio. Kyle 
was commissioned in the Marine Corps 
in May, 1942, went to Indiantown Gap, 
Pa., for a six-weeks course of training, 
and from there to Philadelphia for a 
physical examination. He remained at 
the Naval Hospital in Philadelphia from 
June, 1942, until December, 1943, and 'was finally retired on Feb. 1, 1944. After his retirement Kyle moved, vnth his wife, to San Antonio, whei-e he was employed by the Equitable Life Assur­ance Society of the United States until his death. 
Lt. Harold W. Borer, USNR, Great Neck, L. L, N. Y., formerly missing in action, has been listed as lost in battle against the Japanese, it was disclosed in January. He flew a carrier-based torpedo plane in the initial attack by Admii'al Halsey's force on Formosa. 
Wally had been awarded the Distin­guished Flying Cross for heroism on Oct. 
Kyle Donnell WoUy Borer 
12, 1944, when he scored a direct hit on a Japanese surface craft and contributed to her sinking. 
Wally entered naval flight training early in 1941 and was commissioned an ensign in March, 1942, at the Naval Training School, Jacksonville, Fla. He then flew anti-submarine patrol in the Atlantic for several months before being assigned to Pacific duty. He is survived, besides his parents; by his widow and two children. 
The AusiNUS has so far received only incomplete information regarding Lt. John L. Crane, '40, Dunkirk, N. Y., who, listed as missing for many months, is now declared officially to be dead. A ful­ler account of John's life will appear in the next issue. 
Lt. Carroll A. Michels, '40, South Bend, missing in action since March 3, 1945, has been officially declared dead by the War Department. A B-24 navigator, he was declared missing after his plane failed to return from a mission over Germany. 
Carroll Michels Paul Mullen 
After his graduation from Notre Dame Carroll was employed by the Standard Oil Co. in South Bend. He en­tered the service in January, 1942. Sur­viving him besides his wife and two­year-old son are his parents and five sisters. 
Capt. Paul A. J. Mullen, Jr., USMGR, '40, Pittsburgh, was killed in an airplane accident, near Yokohama, Japan, on Feb. 12. During the war Paul was a member of Major Gregory "Pappy" Boy­ington's famed' Black Sheep Squadron and was ocTiically credited with eight and one-half planes. 
Paul entered the service in January, 1942, as a naval aviation cadet, and was commissioned in November, 1942, at Jacksonville, Fla. He had had over 200 hours of combat flying and was in the thick of the fighting over Bougainville and New Britain. He had been wounded twice, and besides the Purple Heart with one cluster, had been awarded the Dis­tinguished Flying Cross and the Air Medal with one cluster. 
nounced in January. Assigrned to the Office of Strategic Seirices, he was the head of an important military missitm in Yugoslavia at .the time he was de­clared missing in action. He has been awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. 
Charlie enlisted in the Army in Haieh of 1941, went overseas with the Quarter­master Corps, and later volunteered for paratroop duty. In the spring of 1943 he was commissioned a captain and was assigned to extremely. hazardous dnty with the 60th Troop Carrier Group. The group's mission was to fly food, clothing and medicine into the German-occupied Balkans and return with plane loads of wounded and evacuees. 
After a highly creditable tour of duty in the Middle East, Charlie was trans­ferred to the Office of Strategic Services in December, 1943. In the spring of 1944 he volunteered for duty as head of the mission to Yugoslavia, and in Aa£:iist he departed for that country, where he served as liaison officer, living and work­ing in close cooperation with Partisan forces. In Deconber, 1944, all commonl­cation with Capt. Fisher was cut oif abruptly when the Crermans staged an offensive against the Partisan forces. 
Lt. Leo W. Shields, Ph.D. '41, Salt Lake City, Utah, who was reported in the ALUMNUS a year ago as missing in action, has been declared officially dead by the War Department. 
After receiving his Ph.D. at Notre Dame Leo taught for a year at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass. He en­tered the service in June 1942, received his commission at Fort Benning, Ga., and left for overseas duty in April, 1944. An infantry officer, Leo had just report­ed for duty in France with the 120th 
Chcidie Fiahar I«o SInalds 
Regiment when, on July 20, he was re­ported missing in action. On June 1, 1945, the War Department officially an­nounced that Lt. Shields had been killed on the previous July 20. 
Leo is survived by his parents and a brother. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Lt Robert L. Hengel, ex. '42, Pierre, 

S. D., previously reported missing in action, is presumed by the War Depart­ment to have been killed on Nov. 1,1944. 
Bob left Notre Dame after the spring semester in 1940. In January, 1943, he was called to pre-flight training at San Antonio, Texas. Receiving his commis­sion and rating as bombardier in Febru-
Bob Hengel Tom Dougherty 

ary, 1944, he was stationed at Muroc Dry Lake and Hamilton Field, Calif., before his overseas assignment in July. In the Pacific Bob was based in the Ad­miralties and on New Guinea, and, at the time of his death, on Morotai Island. 
He had completed many missions, in­cluding a 2,500-mile round trip to Balik­papan. Participating in a bombing mis­sion on Alicante airdrome on the Negros Islands on Nov. 1, Lt. Hengel's plane sustained severe damage and crashed in the Guimaras Strait. Two crew members successfully parachuted and were res­cued, but the remainder are presumed to have been killed. 
Pvt. Robert E. Flynn, ex. '43, Quincy, 111., died of malaria while a prisoner of the Japanese in Camp O'Donnell in the Philippines, according to word recently received in the Alumni Oflice. Bob was attached to the 98th Bombardment Squadron, stationed in the Philippines when they fell in the spring of 1942. 
Bob left Notre Dame in his freshman year to join the Army. He received his basic training at Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md., and was later stationed at the Air Base in Savannah, Ga. In Oc­tober, 1941, he sailed for the Philippines and was stationed at Clark Field when war was declared. He was taken prisoner when Corregidor fell in May, 1942. Al­though details are lacking, it is known that he was wounded in action before his capture, and his mother has the Purple Heart awarded to him posthumously. 
Surviving besides his mother are a sister and two brothers, one of whom is John J. Flynn, ex. '34. 
2nd Li. Frank M. Cusick, ex. '45, Providence, R. I., who had been missing in action since Jan. 23, 1945, was late last year officially declared to be dead. 
An end on the football team of 1942, Frank left Notre Dame in 1943 to be­come an air cadet at Rockhurst College, Kansas City, Mo. He was commissioned at Ellington Field, Texas, in April, 1944, and went overseas a few months later. He lost his life in air action over Ger­many. 
Lt. Thoma* V. Dougherty, ex. '45, Hazleton, Pa., previously listed as miss­ing in action since Jan. 28, 1945, has now been declared by the War Depart­ment to be officially dead. He was serv­ing as co-pilot of an Eighth Air Force Liberator based in England and is be­lieved to have met his death in an' attack on the Ruhr industrial area of Germany. 
Tom was called to active duty as an aviation cadet in February, 1943, and trained at various posts in the United States before being commissioned at Moody Field, Ga., in May, 1944. He went overseas in November of the same year and had completed several combat mis­sions before the one from which he failed to return. He is survived by his parents, a sister and two brothers. 
Oeof As Already Reported 
(This section contains additional in­formation about Notre Dame men whose deaths in the armed forces were report­ed in earlier issues of the ALUJINTJS.) 

Robert A. Kennedy, S/lc, Anoka, Minn., Navy V-12 student at Notre Dame in 1943, was killed in action on July 30, 1945. Bob lost his life as the result of the sinking of the cruiser, Indianapolis, which was en route to the Philippines from Guam after a run which, in the de­livery of an atomic bomb, set a new rec­ord from San Francisco. Two heavy un­derwater explosions wracked the vessel and it sank within 15 minutes. 
Bob is survived by his father, his g^ndmother, two sisters, and three brothers. He attended St. Thomas Col­lege, St. Paul, Minn., for a year before he came to Notre Dame. 
Pfc. John J. Poppen, USMCR, Otsego, Mich., a Marine trainee at the Univer­sity in 1943, was killed on March 4,1945, during the invasion and conquest of Iwo Jima. 
Bob Kennedy Jack Poppen 
From Notre Dame, Jack went to San Diego for boot training, then volunteered for para-Marine service. This training was discontinued, however, and he sailed for Hawaii with the 5th Marine Divi­sion in July, 1944. 
On Iwo Jima, Jack's company hit the beach on D-day and inched forward in the face of the terrific Japanese resist­ance. On March 4, while covering an ad-' vance. Jack was mortally wounded, dy­ing soon after he reached the aid station. 
30? DEAD IN WAR 
Up to April 4, 1945, the Alumni Office had listed the names of 307 Notre Dame men who gave their lives >s mem bers 
of the anced forcei in World War U. Seventeen were still listed as missing in action. 

ADDITIONAL SERVICE MEN* 
Key to letter with each name:A-Army; N—^Navy; M—^Marines; MM-Merchant Marine. 
Andres, Charles M., ex. '44, South Bend, Ind., N.; Anton, Roy J., ex. '40, 1st Lt., Plymouth,. Wis., A.: Asadorian, Giza. Provi­dence, R. I., N. 
Bennett, Charles R., '39, discharged, St. Augustine, Pla.; Berube, Ulysse G., ex. '47, Umcstonc, Me., A.; Bigelovr, Roswell I», Ens., Gales Ferry, Conn., N.: Blase, Donald E., Ens., Kirkwood, Mo., N.; Blum, Frederick J., Elm­hurst, 111., N.; Bona, Adolph A., ex. '48, Chi­cago, 111., A.: BoniQ, Albert. Los Angeles, Calif., M.; Brick, Anthony W., '36, North Tona­wanda, X. T., discharged, N.; Bright, Lewis D., Ens.. Nashville, Tenn., N.; Brooks, Charles F., ex. '46, Richmond, Va., A.; Brown, Jere­miah E., ex. '44, Englewood, N. J., A.; Brown, Phnip S., Olympia, Wash., N.; Bryan, James J., Lt. O.g.), ex. '45, New Orleans, La., N.; 
Burke, Thomas C, ex. '46, Richmond, Va., A.; Burkhardt, William G., '35, Akron, O., dis­charged, N.; Butler, Robert E., Arcadia, Calif., N. 

Callahan, William P., Lt., '39, Wichita. Kans., A.; Carlucci, Joseph P., Capt., '40, Port Cliester, N. T., A.; Chaky, Emil, Ens., Pas­saic N. J., N.; Chartrand, Victor J., Engle­wood, N. J., N.-, Clark, WHliam J.. Salt Lake City, Utah. M.; Coble, Wallace L.. Ens., Gar­rett, Ind., N.; Comerford, wniiam M., Scran­ton, Pa., N.; Cook, John D., ex. '43, Canton. O., A.; Cousins, Michael J., 1st Lt., ex. '44,' New Orleans, La., A.; Cullinan, George E., Avon, N; T., N.; Cyr, Sylvlo T., Lt., ex. '32, Portland, Me., discharged, A. 
D 

Dailer, James H., ex. '48, Wheeling, W. Va., A.; Davis. Raymond, Baxter Springs, 
of the men listed here are former T-U stadeato In the Vnlvenitr. Since their statas as atauani ranains to be deflned, a daas year for each of than has been omitted. 
Volume 24, No. 2, AprU, 1946 
Kans., M.; Se La Mater, Ray E., McAIester, Okla., dlschar^d, N.; Delaney, Francis T., Chattanooga, Tenn., K.; Dellasega. Joseph Iju, Ens., Parsons. Kans.. N.; Drewnlany, Casl­mer P., Irvington, N. J., N. 
Ellis. William J.. Capt.. '35. Tacoma. Wash.. 
Fanelli. Charles M.. ex. '44. Reddlck. Pla., A.; Fast, Robert W.. Portland. Ore., dis­charged. N.; Pcrrick. William J-. Ens.. Snyder N. Y., N.; Fiedler. Everett K.. Mas­on. Mich.. N.; Finn, Francis J., ex. '44. Tea-neck. N. J., discharsed. N.: Fisher. William 
C. Lt. '43, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, N.; Fitzgerald. Donald J., Set., ex. '43, Indlii­napolis, Ind.. A.; Flanagan, James H., Ens.. West Roxbury. Mass.. X.; Foley, Andrew E., Watertown, s. D., N. 
Gagllone. Francis J.. '39, St. IJouis. Mo., discharged: • Gallagher. Thomas E., Cpl-, ex. '41. Louisville. O., deceased. A.; Gore. George H., ex. '45, Fort I.auderdale, Fla., discharged. A.: Gosline. Joseph V., Greenwich. Conn.. N.; Greanlas. Chris G.. Ens., Decatur, III.. N.; Grimes. Robert J., ex. *45. Syracuse. X. T.. A.: Grogan. P.atrick R., Chicago, 111., N.; Gulch,. Sigmund P., 2nd Lt.. ex- '45. Camden. 
X. J.. A.: Guyette, Donald F.. 2nd Lt., "42, Fond du Lac. Wis.. A. 
H 

Hanley, Patrick R., Hoboken, X. J.. X.; Hardlson. Jack E., Dallas. Texas. A.; Hell-rung, J. Warren, ex. '41. University City, Mo., discharged; Hess. Donald J.. Santa Monica. Calif., X.; Hill, Jesse, C. Oakland. Calit.. X.; Hoene. Arthur C. Cmdr.. '34. Duluth. Minn., X.'; Hoene. Howard F.. S/Sgt.. ex. '32. Duluth, Minn., discharged. A.; Hoenk, Clifford E., ex. '31, South Bend, Ind., discharged. X.; Horan. Robert D., Ens., ex. '45. Los Angeles. Calif.. X.: Horn, James E.. ex. '4ti. Cleveland. O.. A.; Hull. Duane C. Bridgeport. Conn., X.; Hutchins, Gardner E., Ft. Fairfield, ile.. X. 
I Isaac. Edward E.. Hancock. Mich., X. 
James. Clarence J., ex. '19. Philadelphia. Pa., discharged. A.: Jandoll. Leslie C. '34, Orange, X. J., discliargcd. A.; Johnson. Ben­jamin C, Dickinson. X. D.. M.; Johnson, James J., Ann Arbor, Mich., discharged, X.; Johnson. Warren R.. Ens.. Chicago. 111.. X.: Jones, Kenneth C, Magna. Utah. X.; Jordan. Robert J.. Long Beach. Calif.. X. 
Karl. .Tohn B.. ex. '45. Xew Canaan, Conn.. A.: Karl, Paul K., Peoria, 111., N-: Kartholl. James H., ex. '48, Fort Wayne. Ind.. A.; ICaschewskl. Karl A.. '29. Xew Orleans. La., discharged; Keenan. James D.. ex. '48. Xorth Platte. Xeb.. A.; Kelly. William P., Capt.. ex. '44, Highland Park, 111., A.; Kerns. Bernard J., Baltimore, Md.. X.; King. James F., Atton, Tenn., N.; Konyha, Richard B., Detroit. Mich.. N.: Kronbach. Robert C, Toledo. O.. X. 
LaGrave, Donald R.. 1st. Lt.. ex. '45. Min­neapolis, Minn., A.; Lais. Leo V., Lt.. St. Paul, Minn., killed in action, M.; Lambert. George C.. San Francisco. Calif., X.: I^aTourrette. Verne G.. Ens., Peoria, Ariz..-.- X.; Leahy. John J.. Sgt., ex. '44. Philadelphia, Pa., A.; Le­wieckl, Stanley P.. South Bend, Ind., X.; Lucke, Richard T., '39, Wisconsin Dells, Wis., discharged. X.; Loescher. Frederick E., 1st Lt.. CI. "44. Harrlsburg. Pa., discharged. A.; Loyacano. Stephen J.. Xew Orleans. La.. X.; Lyons, William T.. '32, Marietta, Ga. 
M 

McCabe. John P.. '42, West Chicago, 111., discharged. A.'; McCarthy, George H., ex. '47. South Bend, Ind., discharged. A.; McColgan, Roy J., ex. '48, Saginaw, Mich.. A.; McDon­ald. William P.. ex. '42, Miami Beach. Fla.. 
A.; McGrath. Joseph J., '36. Drexel Hill. Pa., discharged. X.; McKay. Richard V., Lt., '39. Dubuque, la.. A.; McMahon, Bernard J.. 2nd Lt.. e.x. '46. Rocky Hill. Conn.. A.; McShkne, James K.. Coral Gabies, Fla., MM.; Mac-Sweeney. Robert B.'." ex.' '43. Richmond, Va., discharged; Marshall. Charles T. 2nd Lt.. ex. '47. Ap.iIachicola, Fla.. A.; Martel, Ro­land J.. '43. Beverly, Mass.. X.; Martin, Wayne D., Watertown, O., discharged, X.; Mathews. Francis J.. MaJ.. '36, Highland Falls, X. T., A.; May, Lawrence S.. Con­nellsvllle. Pa.. X. 
Mead, John B.. ex. '42. Xew Orleans. La., discharged. A.; Mead. Vincent A., Lt, ex. '42. Jacksonville. Fla.. X.; Meehan, John S.. Manchester. X. H., N.; Menhennett. Glenn P., Ens., ex. '45, Kremmling. Colo., X.; Mengel, William P.. '43. Wisconsin Rapids. Wis., H.: Meyer. Albert J., ex. "45. Powell, Wyo., dis­charged, X.; Meyer, James H., 2nd Lt., Grangeville, Ida.. M.; Michols, Raymond M., Milwaukee, Wis.. X.: Mllligan. Francis J.. Ens., Chicago. III.. X.; Moeschl, Wilbur W., Lt. (Jg). '41. Washington. D. C. X.; Molnar. Robert J.. Bridgeport. Conn.. X.; Monsour. Joseph v., Xewnan. Ga.:A.; Moran. Charles T.. MaJ. ex. '23. Louisville, Ky., A.: Morgan. Daniel B.. ex. '45. Beverly Hills. Calif., A.; Morgan. Robert C, ex. '45. Beverly Hills. Calif.. A. 
ilorrls. Glenn H.. Arroyo Grande. Calif., X.: Morrissey, William J.. '40. Haverstraw. X. T., discharged, A.; Morrow. Charles G., '38. Louis­ville, Ky., discharged, N.; Mortimer. George L.. ex. '40, Ocala, Fla.. discharged, A.; Moser, Kenneth E., ex. '42, Hammond, Ind., dis­charged, A.; Mulcahy, Xeil D.. Bakersfield. Calif.. X.; Mulligan, George E.. Lt., '39, X. 
Y. C. A.; Mulllns. Francis L.. Atlanta. Ga., X.; Murphy, Edward J.. e.x. '48, Chicago, 111.. A.; Murphy. John P.. ex. '44. X. Y. C. A.; Murray. Edward J.. '31. discharged. X. 
N 

Xellgan. Robert E.. ex. '48. El Paso. Texas. .\.; Xelson, Irvin L.. Ens., Bralnerd, Minn., X.: Xoian. Arthur J.. Ens., ex. '46, Chicago, 111.. X.; Xolta. Cornelius V.. Ens.. Detroit. Mich.. N. 
O'Brien. Eldon S., San Jose, Calif.. X.; O'Brien. James L.. Ens.. Beloit, Wis.. X.; O'Connor. Edwin G., '39, "Woonsocket, R. I., discharged. X.; O'Kcefe. Patrick G.. New Or­leans. La., X. 
i'aro, John J.. South Bend. Ind., X.; Patter­son. William H.. Dallas, Texas. A.; Peters. Lewis L.. Trenton. Ky., X.; Phillips. Clinton J.. Kirkwood. Mo.. M.; Phillips. Leo M., Xoti. Ore., discliarged, X.: Poppen, John. Otsego. Mich., killed in service. M.; Pszcniczny, P. Walter, Watervllet. X. Y., A.; Poniske, Gerald J.. Ens., Belleville, 111.. -X.; Powers, Charles W.. Ens.. Titusviile. Pa., X.; Poxon. John P.. Vernon. Calif.. X.; Prlgge. Arthur. Jr.. Ens., llolland. Mich.. X. 
Quelrolo. Robert L., San Francisco. Calif, discharged. X.; Quinlan, Eugene A., St. Paul. Minn.. X. 
Radigan. Joseph P., ex.. '29. Ludlow, Vt; Ray. Melvin R., Ens.. Bishop, Calif., X.; Rear-don. John B.. '22, Pittsburgh, Pa.. X.; Red­dlck. James P.. Denver. Colo.. X.; Regan. .\rthur v., ex. '45. South Bend, discharged. A.; Rehkopf, Christian C Memphis. Tenn., X.; Relias. Chris S., Ens., Xashua, X. H., X.; Renner, Arthur M.. Ens.. Huntingburg, Ind., X.; Richards. John D.. Tacoma. Wash., dis­charged. X.; Rielly. David J., .'30. St. Louis. Mo., discharged. A.; RIgllng. Alfred. Oroville. Calif.. X. 
Roeh. Marcel J.. West Warwick. R. I.. X.; Roesch. Joseph A.. '43. Belleville. 111., A.; Rotchford. Robert L., Spokane, Wash., A.; Rowles. Richard W.. Laramie. "Wyo.; X.; Rumely. Donald D.. Princeton, 111; Ryan, John R., Ens.. '45. Hlbbing. Minn., X. 
SalTord. Uoyd A., Reynolds, Ind., N.; Sar»­neld, Francia L., CentervUle, Wash., A>; 8a­vltt. Bernard H.. X. T. C M.: Schaafec Reuben E., 2nd Lt., Tripp, S. D., If.; Sehet­tic. Donald A., Lt., '30, .Ebensbnrs, Pa.. N.; 
' Schllder, Donald P.. El Reno, Okla., A.; Schramm, Albert W., Dan^-zUle, HI., N.; Schro­der, . Robert M., Great ttficlt, U I.. X. T.. discharged, N.; SeedorfT, Thomas J., Short Hills, X. 'J., discharged; Semenczuk, Joseph M., 1st Lt.. '41, Vicfcsborg, Mich., discharsed. A.; senecal. Jean L., Ens.. Xew Bedford, Mass., X. 
Sbarman, James C. Ena. Lafayette, Calif.. X.; Shea, John J., Memphis, Tenn.. X.; Shee­key, Francis S., Xewport, R. I., X.; Sheridan, Philip R.. '39, Elkhart, Ind., discharged. A.; Shioleno, Lewis J.. Xorth East, Pa., X.; Sha­man. Irving, Ens., Chicago, IIL, X.; Sill. Robert J., Seattle, Wash., inactive dntr. A.; Simpkins. John A.. Sanit Ste. Marie, Mich., X.; Skwiercz. Joseph J., South Bend, Ind-, N.; Smith, Donald G.. Martinez, Calif., discharged. X.; Smith. Paul W-, Memphis. Tenn-. A.: Smith. William J.. Lt. (jg). Portland, Ore., X.; Smith, William R., '37, Asbury Park, N. J-, X.; Smuilen, Harold R.. West Haven. Conn.. N. 
Snyder. James A., ex- '47,* Taft, Galif., A.; Sommers. Armiger H.. '42. Clarksdale, Miss.: Splaine. William H., Xewington, Conn., X.; 
Steams. Joel W.. Santa Monica, Calif., X.; Stewart; Thomas J., Rockville Centre, X. T., X.; Stoddard, Aaron. Ens.. Salmon, Ida-, X.; Strong, Gene E., ex. *34. Clayton, Mo., dis­charged; Stroud. Harvey M.. North Platte. Neb.. X.; Stuesser, Jerome, Chula Vista, Calif., N.; Sullivan, John A., Ens., ex. '44. Wash­ington. D. C. X.; Sullivan, John J., S/Sgt., ex. '41, Waterbury. Conn.. A-; Sullivan, John R., F/O. ex. '45, Omaha. Xebr., A.; Supple, Ed' mond P.. Xew Rochelle. N. T., X-
Tanner, James D-, M/Sgt., '40, East Aurora, 
X. Y.. A.; Tardani, William L., Muskegon. Mich., A.; Tarleton, Francis S., Hot Springs Xational Park, Ark., X.; Tash, Edwin F., ex. '46, Hanover, X. H.. A.; Thomas. Kenneth S., Ens., Summit, X. J., N.; Tighe. Be.mard C Fargo. X. D., X.; Tompkins, William A.. Ens., Austin, Texas, X.; Toth. Alexander S., Ens., South Bend, Ind., X-; Toth, Richard E., South Bend. Ind., A.; Trunk. Francis J., Lt. CJg), '45, Chicago. III., X.; Tucker, Toung A-, Mi­ami, Pla., A-; Turner. Virgil !». ex. '47. Sweetwater. Tex., A.; Twiss, Seymour B*., Sgt., ex. '43. Porcupine, S. D.. A.; Tyo. Robert A., Long Beach, Calif., A. 
Van Horn. John J., Denver, Colo., X.; Var^'il. Ernest L., Flint. Mich., discharged, X.; Vincelll. Xicholas A., St. Paul, Minn., X.; Vivlano. Peter P.. '36, St. Louis. Mo., dis­charged-
w 

Waage, Wesley A-, Ens-, Noonan, X. D., N.; Walklet, Donald E.. Ens., New Lebanon, O., X.; Webb, Herschel W., Ens., Kansas City, Kans., X.: Whalen. William P.. ex. '38, Dor­chester, Mass., died three weeks after his discharge, in an accident. A.; Wietig. Norman E.. Lt., "34. Bairalo. N. T.. N.; Wilson, Pat­rick J.. 2nd Lt., Idaho Falls. Ida., M.; Win-berry, Raymond P., Rutherford. N. J., N.; Wolf, William L.. Ma]., '34, Baton Rouge, La.. A.; Wolford. Carl H-, ex- '48, New Albany. Ind., A.; Wood, Myles E., Blngham­ton. N. Y., N.; Wyckoir. George E., ex. '42, PIninview, Texas, A. 
Yaksitch. Edward A., 2nd Lt., ex. '47, Ar­vin. Calif., A.; Young. William E., Rochester, 
X. Y.. X. 
Zando. Raymond J., ex. '45, War, W. Va.. A.; Zefting, Robert M., West Hartford. Conn., X.: Zlemlnskl. Joseph A., 2nd Lt., San Tnui­clsco. Calif.. M. 
Largest Enrollment in History 
3,402 Students Assigned to Spring Semester Classes 
On March 14 spring term classes be­gan at Notre Dame with the largest enrollment in the history of the Uni­versity. 3,402 students had been assigned to classes in the three days preceding, thus exceeding by more than 500 the number of students enrolled in the sem­ester immediately preceding. 
This term will complete Notre Dame's record of maintaining three complete semesters during each schoolyear affect­ed by the war. It will be the last of the accelerated war-time semesters of approximately 16 weeks duration, and next fall will see the renewal of the regular 18-week semester. 
With the increase in enrollment the University encountered one of the most urgent housing problems in its history. Although the Navy unit on the campus was appreciably diminished, it continued to occupy Morrissey Hall and half of Howard Hall, and the remaining space did not meet the need. All halls on the campus, with the exception of Breen-Phillips and St. Edwards, have under­gone a doubling-up process. In addition, many South Bend residents who have never before rented rooms, have re­sponded to an appeal by the University officials and made rooms available to students. 
The shortage of rooms on the cam­pus might have been worse had not many of the students been married veterans 
•who came to South Bend with their families. This circumstance strains the already acute housing shortage in the South Bend area, and is alleviated in some measure only by the promise of FHPA housing. The University has been allotted 117 one family units, but it is not expected that these will be ready for occupancy until shortly before the semester ends. 
At the University this semester are 343 N.R.O.T.C. members, 23 V-12 engi­neering students, and 93 V-5 students who are taking.preliminary college train­ing before entering the naval flight pro­gram. The commencement in June wU mark the end of the appearance of these students on the campus in uniform. All ROTC's will revert to inactive status on Juy 1 or will be discharged, and next fall only their naval classes and their drill in uniform three times a week will mark the ROTC's as different from the rest of the students. 
With the complete curtailment of the active duty phase of the naval program to come in June, the Navy is disposing of its equipment and buildings. The Na^T administration and classroom building, located behind the Rockne Memorial, will be used as a general store room in the post-war building plan. The huge drill hall (back of the old gym) with its assembly hall, classrooms and groups of modem ordnance equipment, will remain the ROTC training building. 
More than half of the present enroll­ment is composed of veterans and the number of veterans attending this term has almost trebled the number attend­ing in the preceding term. About half the returned vets are former Notre Dame students. Upsetting nationwide prophesies that the veterans would con­centrate on certain branches of educa­tion, the veterans have shown no marked preference. The pre-war ratio of stu­dents in the various colleges has been more or less preserved by the returning veteran and non-veteran alike. 
As in recent years, the College of Commerce leads in numbers enrolled with a total of 1,061. The College of Arts and Letters is second with 898 en­rolled, and the College of Engineering is third with 811. Then comes the Col­lege of Science with 367, the College of Law, with 154, and the Graduate School with HI. 
RELIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 

The committees in the Local Clubs to stimulate alumni leadership have been slow in forming. There is much delay because of failure to picture what these committees should do. And in many ways it is difficult to define the com­mittees because each Club and its en­vironment differs from others in prob­lems and personnel. 
It is possible that a little summary of what, just offhand, some Notre Dame Clubs and men are doing, may serve best to indicate the ways in which these committees can direct alumni activity and interest. For. example: 
Most alumni are aware of the magnifi­cent, nationally known program which The-Notre Dame Alumnus 
John C. TuUy, '11, has effected through the Thomas More Book Store in Chicago. 
Jim O'Shaughnessy, also in Chicago, and a number of alumni on the North Shore, and Tom Byrne in Cleveland, to­gether with a group of alumni there, have combined with their wives in Cath­olic Action in the young married milieu. 
The Notre Dame Club of Wilming­ton, Del., took over upon request the officiating of games in the C.Y.O. league there. One of the members there is also active in a Catholic radio series. 
Joe Boland, WSBT radio key man in South Bend, recently took the opportun­ity to deliver a rousing paper on re­ligion and its opponents before a South Bend civic group. 
The New York Club participated in the Friends of Frank Fay meeting to protest the treatment of Fay by Com­munist elements in Actors Equity, which aroused national controversy. 
Through Dan Conlin, '33, executive of the Toledo Council of Catholic Men set up by Bishop Alter, members of the Notre Dame faculty are participating in a labor-management institute in Toledo this Spring. 
Through the cooperation of a number of alumni and faculty members, the Aquinas Library and Book Shop in South Bend sponsored a series of Lenten addresses, which included Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.C. and John V. Hinkel, '29. Mrs. J. Arthur Haley was general chair­man of this series. 

There are hundreds of other individu­al activities going on—articles, address­es, leadership in labor movements, etc., which are doing the job intended by the committees suggested. 
The basic thought is simply that Notre Dame- men, by their training, are grounded in principles, and are articu­late in their expression of these prin­ciples as they apply to current problems. 
Since the need of the day, in civic and religious life, seems to be for this combination, articulate men of principle, and since there seems to be a tendency of such trained men to avoid this social implication of t^eir education, the Alum­ni Board, inspired by the interest and the injunctions of the President of the Uni­versity, urges all Clubs to take a census of such work as it is reflected in the Club. 
Such a census will reveal two major fields—what is already being done as evidenced by the few examples cited; and what might be done in the commun­ity if similar action were more general. 
Volume 24, No. •ZjjAprU; 1946 
Br layaMod I. Doosvaa. '42 
» »

ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
Elmer Ripley, head coach of basketball at Notre Dame during the 1945-46 sea­son, made his one-year stay at the Uni­versity a successful and impressive one by guiding the Irish quintet to an out­standing record of 17 victories and only four losses. 
Ripley, on leave of absence from Georgetown University, left for his home on Staten Island, N.'Y., immediately after his Notre Dame team trounced De­troit, 66-39, on March 2. Bet\veen halves of the Detroit game, the popular Ripley was presented with an engraved 17­jewel wrist watch by the Notre Dame players. He currently is recuperating in a New York City hospital from an oper­ation to correct an old hip injury. 
Emerging from their first 13 games of the season undefeated, the Irish hit a sudden "Saturday night slump" and went down to defeat on four successive week-ends. Northwestern handed the Ripleymen their initial loss of the cam­paign in Chicago Stadium on Feb. 2, when the Wildcats' Max Morris hit a last minute one-hander to win for North­western, 56-55. 
Notre Dame, still rated the No. 1 team in the nation, bounced back on Feb. 7 by defeating Canisius College, 69-47, in Buffalo. The Irish, playing one of their best games of the season, gained the honor of being the "best team" to play in Buffalo during the 1945-46 campaign, according to a vote of sports writers, radio commentators and coaches in that city. 
Invading Madison Square Garden, New York City, in what was billed as the national championship contest, the boys staged one of their most disap­pointing showings of the season. Bated a favorite to defeat the Violets from New York University, Notre Dame fought an uphill battle all the way and, in spite of a desperate last-period rally led by George Ratterman, dropped a 62 to 58 decision. In spite of the fact that he was used as a reserve in this game, Ratterman gained, for the second succes­sive year, a berth on the All-Madison Square Garden team. 
Once again the Saturday night jitters showed up on Feb. 16 when the Irish in­vaded Milwaukee in a return game. Coach Ripley's boys, who beat the Hill-toppers, 69-67 earlier in the season, built up a substantial lead at the half, only to have Marquette rally in the final stages to \nn going away, 68-59. 
Michigan State, defeated earlier by five points, once again proved a worthy foe, but the Irish staved off a last-half rally to gain a 56-54 decision on Feb.20. The return match with DePaul—on Feb. 23 in Chicago Stadium—^was the game midwestern fans were waiting for. But so was DePaul. Notre Dame had gained a miraculous 43-to-42 victory over Coach Ray Meyers' Demons in the Notre Dame Gym on Jan. 5, due chiefly to Capt. Billy Hassett's last-second long shot. The Demons were out for revenge, and with Big George Mikan making a sensational last-stand in the Chicago Stadium by scoring 33 points, DePaul coasted to a 63 to 47 victory. 
Notre Dame, also out for revenge for their first defeat of the season, played spectacular ball in Notre Dame Gym on Feb. 26 to stop Northwestern, 57-50, and then turned in a near-perfect demonstra­tion in Ripley's final game to whip De­troit in a farewell tribute to their coach. 
The season, one of the best in Notre Dame history, did not go by without see­ing more records fall. Leo Klier, AU-American forward, regained his individ­ual scoring championship for a single season by tallying a total of 355 points during the 21-game schedule. Vince Boryla, sophomore center, by scoring 321 points came within ons point of ty­ing his record of 322 points, set last year. 
Attendance records, also, fell by the boards as the Irish played before full houses nearly all season. An all-time at­tendance record was set at 185,000. Home records toppled as 36,000 fans jammed the Notre Dame Gym to witness the nine home games. The Irish also played before the largest crowd ever to witness a college basketball game in the United States — 22,622, Chicago Stadi­um, Feb. 23. 
• 

SPRING FOOTBALL 
Preparation for Notre Dame's 58th season of football began on April 8 when the Irish started spring practice. The drills will last for six weeks, broken off for about five days during a brief Eas­ter recess. 
Althoug h unacquainted, naturally, with most of his prospects. Coach Leahy, back at his old job after two years in the Navy, feels that the 1946 edition of the Irish will be "a representative Notre Dame eleven." This doesn't mean he is suddenly optimistic, for he knows that every other team on the 1946 Notre Dame schedule will be much stronger than a year ago. 
The 1945 team was composed mostly 
of seniors and freshmen.The freshmen 
are hearing the draft call from Uncle 
Sam, and, therefore, the team this sea­
son will be made up, in the majority, of 
returned veterans. 
.Leahy is starting his fourth season 
as the head coach at Notre Dame. From 
1941 through 1943, his phenomenal rec­
ord was: 24 victories, three losses and 
three ties. Including his two previoos 
years at Boston College, where he took 
20 out of 22 starts, the entire and very 
excellent record of Leahy as head coach 
is: 44 wins, five losses, and three ties. 
A recent addition to the Notre Dame 
coaching staff is Eddie Doherty, former 
great back at Boston College. Doheity 
will aid Coach Leahy with the tutoring 
of Irish backs. 
The 1946 schedule: 
Sept. 28—Blinois at Champalsn 
Oct. 3—Pittsbarsii at Notre Dame 
Oct. 12—Purdue at Notre Dame 
Oct. 19—Open " 
0<A. 26—lows at Iowa City 
Nov. 2—Navy at Baltimore-
Nov. 9—^Army at New York 
Nov. 16—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Nov. 23—Tulane at New Orleans 
Nov. 30—Southern California at Notre Dame 
BASEBALL 
Clarence J. (Jake) Kline, professor of mathematics and head coach of baseball, was greeted by 2c0 candidates when he issued his first call for practice on Car­tier Field. 
Coach Kline, in welcoming the largest number of candidates to report for base-' ball at Notre Dame since the outbreak of the war, took one look at the number of veteran performers in this year's ros­ter and predicted that the Irish wQl be able to field a ball cinb of pre-war­calibre. 
The veteran material Coach Kline was thinking of when looking over the sqnad included a pair of top-notch pitchera. in Jack Barrett, of Lonisrille, anil;-'.I)iek Smulen, of Bronxville, N.'Y.'&oth'Smnl­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
len and Barrett turned in some fancy twirling for the Irish during the 1945 season. 
Behind the plate, Tonuny Sheehan, of New Haven, Conn., is back to handle most of the catching duties. Sheehan, captain and catcher on the 1944 Notre Dame nine before he was assigned to active duty in the Navy, is noted for his slugging ability and is rated one of the finest backstops in collegiate circles. Bill Dioguardi, of Kearney, N. J., who was the regular catcher on the Irish summer baseball team in 1945, also will se con­siderable action. 
Around the infield, the third base bat­tle is between Tom Martin, of Detroit, Mich., and Frank Ciszcon, of East Chica­go, Ind. Martin was the regular third baseman last season, while Ciszcon saw considerable action in 1943. Billy Has-sett, of basketball fame, major league prospect from New York City, holds down the shortstop berth, but is receiving hot competition from Pete Koblosh, of Yonkers, N. Y. George Schneider, of Eidgewood, N. Y., regular 1945 second liaseman, and Ed Cordasco, of Belleville, 
N. J., are the leading candidates for the keystone, while first base duties lie be­tween Don Grieve, of Yonkers, N. Y., and Eay Petrzelka, of Grand Rapids, Mich. 
A quick glance around the outfield finds candidates headed by Frank Gil­hooley, of Toledo, O., monogram winner last season. Other hopefuls include Jack Mayo, transfer student from Washing­ton University in St. Louis, and Dick Kluck, Chicago, 111., freshman. 
• TRACK 
Bill Leonard, crack sophomore miler -from Schenectady, N. Y., proved to be the star of the Notre Dame indoor track season completed on March 30 at the Chicago Relays. 
Leonard, who fought across Europe as a private in the 30th Infantry and has five battle stars, was undefeated by a collegiate miler during the indoor cam­paign. At the opening of the season. Bill finished fourth to Leslie MacMitchell at the Millrose Games in New York. He then won seven straight collegiate miles, before finishing third to Tommy Quinn and MacMitchell in the Chicago Relays on March 30. 
The team in indoor competition de­feated Wisconsin, Western Michigan and Illinois Tech in dual meets. They topped Michigan State and Marquette in one triangular meet and finished second to Michigan in another three-way affair in­volving Michigan State. Climaxing their indoor season, the Irish copped the team title of the Central Collegiate Confer­ence meet and finished fourth behind Michigan, Illinois and Purdue at the Purdue Relays. 
The complete outdoor schedule fol­lows: 
April 26-27—Drake Relays at Des Moines May 4—^Wisconsin at Madison May 11—Michigan at Notre Dame May 18—ilichiRan State at East Lanslnjr June 1—Marquette at Milwaukee June 15—Central Col'egiate Conference at 
Milwaukee June 21-22—National Collegiate championsliips at Minneapolis 
TENNIS 
Coach Walter Langford welcomed 10 monogram winners back for the 1946 Notre Dame tennis team, but he still is not optimistic about the Irish chances for a successful season. The reason: only a few men are of the calibre necessary to fill the upper portion of the lineup. Most of the 10 formerly played in the lower positions, and much improvement is needed if the Irish are to have a good season. 
Bill TuUy, of Bronxville, N. Y., is e.x­pected to hold down the No. 1 position, followed by George Ratterman, of Cin­cinnati, O., Jim Quinn, 1943 netter from Cincinnati, and Ed Caparo, South Bend, who won a monogram in 1943. 
Other monogram winners present in­clude: Harry Erd, Port Huron, Mich., from the 1941 team; Artie Hoffman, Fort Wayne, Ind., from the 1942 squad; Dick Hartman, Fort Wajme, from the 1943 aggregation; and Joe Brown, Roch­ester, N. Y., Dick Fountain, Detroit, and Ralph Baiocchi, of Chicago, all from the 1945 team. 
The schedule follows: 
April 29—^Navy at Annapolis 
May 4—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
Pictured here is the lames F. CDon­nell Medcd for Joumcdism. founded in 1942 by the late Hugh A. O'DonnelL '96, as o memorial to his brother. James, newspaper publisher of Bloom­ington. 111. The medol is awarded to the student of the Department of Jour­nalism who has the highest average in his senior yeor. 
Hay 9—Indiana at Notre Dame 
Hay 10—Purdue at Lafayette 
May 11—Kentucky at Lexington 
May 17—^Western Michigan at Kalamazoo 
Hay 18—Michigan State at Lansing 
May 23—Wisconsin at Notre Dame 
May 25—Michigan at Notre Dame 
• 
GOLF 
Returning war veterans hold the key to the success of the 1946 golf team. 
Touted as one of the most promising golfers in the nation's collegiate circles, Dick Whiting, Detroit, hopes to regain the form he displayed before entering the Army Air Corps in 1942; he won the Michigan junior tournament three times and also copped the western junior one. 
Another veteran of World War II on whom the Irish are counting heavily is Joseph C. Totten, of Pittsburgh, (broth­er of several alumni), who formerly competed in golf for Duquesne Univer­sity. Four former monogram winners at Notre Dame also have returned from the service and are available for compe­tition. They are: Paul Porter, Beaumont, Texas; Arthur Mosher, Hinsdale, N. H.; Tom Dore, Dearborn, Mich.; and Jim Besenfelder, of Spring Valley, HI. Cap­tain of the Notre Dame squad is Tom Kennedy, Rochester, Minn. 
The schedule: 
April 27—Marquette at Notre Dame 
May 4—^Wisconsin at Madison 
May ll^Purdue at Lafayette 
May 13—^tlichig^n at Notre Dame 
May 18—Northwestern at Notre Dame 
May 24—Indiana Intercollegiate Tournament. 
Terre Haute 
May 25—Minnesota at Minneapolis 
May 31—Michigan State and Wayne University 
at East Lansing 
June 1—Detroit at Detroit 
Jane 24—^National Intercollegiate Tournament 
CONTRIBUTE $2,000 TO WAR RELIEF 
Students and members of the faculty at the University contributed nearly §2;000 in February to a campus drive for War Relief Services. The drive was under the direction of the Student Council, and the money was sent to the Catholic Social Service Bureau in Ft. Wayne, diocese headquarters, so that the funds could be all allocated to pur-. chasing the foods most needed. 
Earlier, 145 members of the admin­istration and faculty urged President Truman to "intensify American relief efforts in Europe and the Far East." A telegram, copies of which were sent to several cabinet officials and to some members of Congress, emphasized, the necessity of positive and immediate action to raise the minimnm diet in all countries, to assure complete freedom of private relief agencies, to extend the operation of the UNRRA, and to open the mails to Austria and Germany. 

liriLLIAM B. SHANLEY, '29, of La 
Grange, 111., for the past 16 years associated with Universal Oil Products Co., of Chicago, is one of two petroleum engineers chosen to assist in the develop­ment of a modem petroleum refining in­dustry in the Republic of China. 
Bill received his M.S. degree at Notre Dame in 1930 and joined the Universal Oil a short time later. He has been a di­rector of the company's service depart­ment, and for many years has been active in supervision of process opera­tions in many refineries both in the United States and in other countries. 
Bill's role in China's proposed develop­ment of her oil industry will be advis­ory. Under an agreement reached with the National Resources Commission of China the American engineers will make a preliminary study and recommend steps to be taken to effectuate the proj­ect. They left San Francisco on Jan. 21, expecting to be away about three months. 
rpHE HONORABLE Frank C. Walker, 
'09, the former postmaster general and Democratic national chairman, in December gained new national recogni­tion when he was named alternate rep­resentative on the.United States delega­tion to the United Nations Assembly. 
When the Assembly convened for the first time in London on Jan. 10, Mr. Walker was named as the United States representative on its legal committee. To this committee were referred such sub­jects as procedure, elections, interpreta­tion of the charter as to length of office of the newly elected officers, and the 
WilUam B. Shcmler 

S
POTLIGHT ALUMNI 
question of privileges and immunities for employees and representatives of the United Nations organization. 
Mr. Walker was appointed also as the United States representative to an ad hoc committee to determine the policy in connection with the transfer of the as­sets of the League of Nations to the United Nations organization. Besides the detailed committee work, Mr. Walker at­tended each of the 33 plenary sessions, until his departure for Rome on Feb. 11 to attend the papal consistory. 
Frank C. Walker 

TjlRANK J. McGINNIS, '24, since 1935 
a resident of Detroit, is now the ad­vertising manager of Ford passenger cars for the Ford Motor Company. 
Frank was a student in the Depart­ment of Journalism at Notre Dame and has been associated with advertising in various capacities since leaving school in 1922. He was in advertising work for Willys-Overland in Toledo, for R. L. Polk & Co., Detroit, and for the Camp­bell-Ewald Co., of Detroit, until he joined Ford early this year. 
He has been a trustee of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit for the past five years and is a former vice-president of that organization. 
Mr. and Mrs. McGinnis are the par­ents of five children, one son and four daughters, one of whom will attend St. Mary's Academy in South Bend next fall. 
Frank I. McGiama 
BUDENZ BOOK TO APPEAR 

This Is'My Story, a book by Louis F. Budenz, a member of .the Notre Dame faculty, will be released on Oct. 11 by Whittlesey House. Former managing 'ed­itor of the Daily Worker, Communist newspaper, Professor Budenz last fall renounced Communism and returned to the Roman Catholic church. Oct. 11, the feast of the Maternity of Mary, will mark the first anniversary of his return to the church and the conversion of his wife and children to Catholicity. It will also mark the end of a year's "retreat and silence" on his part. 
Professor Budenz on April 3 app^ucd in Washingrton, D. C, before the Honse committee on un-American activities to testify in executive session as to the de­signs of the Communist movement in this country. 
FABLETHiUl 
The new reiddanc* hall now be­ing consbnded on the campus of the Uniranitr will be named Tor­ley HalL" in memoir oi one ol Noire Dame'a moat beloved fignrea —the late HOT. John F. Foriey. CS.C "01. who died in IannaiT> 1939. 
Conslructiim el the now halL which win complete the qnodranglo on the norlh-eoat aedion oi the campna, waa begim in lannarr of Una yaor and completion is ez­peded for tho ftdl aomesler irindi opens in September. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Alumni Participate in Recent Consistory 
Three honorary Notre Dame alumni were among the small group who held the at­tention of the world during the recent consistory in Rome wherein four United States archbishops were raised to the dig­nity of the cardinalate. These three alumni were: His Holiness. Pope Pius XII, Litt. D. '36: Edward Cardinal Mooney, U..D. '36, ol Detroit- and Francis Cardinal Spellman. 
LL.D. '35, of New York. Pictured here with the Holy Father and Cardinal Spellman are other Notre Dame men who were in Bome for the ceremonies. 

Upper left, left to right, are Cardinal Spellman, General Mark Clark, Frank C. Walker, '09 and lames Farley, Upper right: Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C.. '11. Low­er left: ReT. Vincent Mooney, C.S.C., '16, an Army chaplain. Lower right: Capt. Jerome Parker, '30, kissing the ring of the Hol y Father. (Cardinal Spellman and Sishop O'Hara are in the background.) 
MULLIN SCHOLARSHIP 
Leo F. Mullin, Washington, D.C., of the class of 1911, has established at the University an annually sustained scho­larship providing for the basic Univer­sity expenses for one or more students throughout the normal four-year course. The scholarship is in memory of Mr. Mullin's aunt, Mrs. Alice E. Durant, and will be awarded to a student proposed by Mr. Mullin or by his committee. 
ATOMIC WORK RECOGNIZED 
In recognition of work done on the atomic bomb, a scroll in the name of Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., presi­dent, was presented to the University on Feb. 26 by the McGraw-Hill Publish­ing Company's chemical and engineer­ing magazine. The award went to 116 other industrial companies, universities and research organizations throughout the United States. 

Volume 24, No. 2, April, 1946 
New Vocational Chairmen 
Murphy and Kavanagh and Keeney Are Named. 
FOKT WAYNE: Jlarry C. Uoean. '01, Presi­
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, for years one 

dent, Dime Trust and Savings Bunk. 
of the Alumni Association's most ardent 
. INDIANAPOLIS: Fred L. MiUialTey, '17, and self-sacrificing workers in the cause President, Consulidateil Finance Co., 850 Con­soltdatcil BIdfr. 
of Job placement, has because of the 
ICVNSAS CITY: Vincent DeCourscy, '39, 

demands of his law office, resigned as 
DeCoursey Crealniery C4»., 642 Northrup Ave., 
chairman of the vocational committee . Kansas City, Knns. 
of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. KENTUCKY: Joseph F. Donaldson, '23, 613 Watagra Drive, Louisville. 
Succeeding Ed as chairman of the 
LOS ANGELES: Paul F. Gloss, '40, 8418 

committee is Vincent I. Murphy, '37, a Loyola Blvd. 
member of the club's vocational com­SnLWAUKEE: Edivurd J. Rosers, '17, Presi­dent, La>iio-Northwest Company, 709 N. 11th 
mittee for the past year. Vince is an employe of the United States Employ­St. 
NTEW JERSEY: Fnu * A. >Iilbaner, '23, Essex ment Service in Chicago. Ed continues Eneruving- Co., 44 Branford Place, Neivark. as a member of the committee. NEW YORK CITY: John T. Bulfe, '20, 
KO E. 43nd Street. 
In Detroit, Henry F. Clark, '30, was 

NOIITIIERN CALIFORNIA: Keene Fitz-also forced, by the pressure of personal IMitrick, '13, li53 MontRomerj- Street, San Frun­business, to resign as chairman of the eisco. local club's vocational committee, and 
OKL^UIOJLV: Rol>ert it. SieefHed, '37, 305 National Baidv of TiUsa Bids., Tulsa. 
Henry has been succeeded as chairman 
PinL.U>ELPHLV: Harold E. Duke, '30, Man-by Thomas G. Kavanagh, '38, an attor­ager, Wayne Pump Co., 4030 N. Brood Street. ney with offices in the Dime Bldg., POBTLANT), ORE.: William C. Schmitt, '10, Detroit. Henry continues on the com­
Pntsident, Schmitt Steel Company, 2407 N.W. 28tli Ave. 
mittee. 
lUIODE ISLiVND & SOUTIIEASTERN 3IASS.: Arthur C. Keeney, '22, an attorney J. Clement Grimes, 384 River Ave., Providence. with offices in the Tower Bldg., Akron, ST. JOSEPH VALLEY, INT).: Judce J. Elmer Peak, '12, Court House, South Bend. 
O., is the new vocational chairman for 
ST. LOUIS: Robert T. Ilellrune, '30, aian­

his club. 
aicer, St. Louis Meilical Credit Bureau, Hum­As before, any Notre Dame man in boldt Medical Bids:., 539 North Grand Blvd. need of vocational counseling or em­TWIN CITIES, SUNN.: Louis J. Regan, '29, Personnel Director, Scars Roebuck and Co., 
ployment aid is urged to communicate 
2929 Elliot Ave., Minneapolis 1. 
with the vocational chairman who is near 
WASIUNGTON, D. C: Bernard E. Losh­at hand. (In the Chicago area, how­boueli, '29, Natioiml Capital Housing- Author­ity, 1737 "L" Street, N. W. 
ever, such men should communicate with 
WESTERN PEN"N.: Jolm F. McMahon, '28, 

the permanent office of the Notre Dame 
Managing Director, Industrial Hygiene Founda­Club of Chicago at 10 S. La Salle St., tion, Inc., Mellon Institute, 4400 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh. 
Chicago, where Miss Jane Cahill is in charge). William R. Dooley, Alumni Office, Notre Dame, will be happy to 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING COURSE 
advise as to procedure in the case of 
the man who is not in, or close to, area A new sequence of courses, intended covered by a club vocational chainnan. to train industrial mechanical engineers, has been introduced into the curriculum 
The list of vocational chairmen of the Department of Mechanical Engi­follows: neering at the University. 

AKRON, O.: Arthur C. Keeney, '22, 1522 Tower BldE. The new course, inaugurated in the 
BERRIEN COCNTY, MICH.: Maurice A. current semester, includes instruction in Weber, '25, Peoples State Bank Bide., St. 
plant design, tool design, industrial 
Joseph. 
organization, production processes, in­
BUFFALO: Joseph F. Rynn, '39, SO Fronte­nuc Are. dustrial economics, production control CHICAGO: Vincent I. Murphy, '37. U.S.E.S., and cost estimation. It is taught by 202 West North Bunk Drive (MerchaniUse 
Prof. C. Robert Egry, of the Depai-t­
>Iart), Chicago. (Sliss Jane Cahill is in charge of (he club's permanent office at 10 So. liuSalle ment of Mechanical Engineering. St., Room 807.) 
Industrial engineering, although not 

CINCrNNATI: Richanl W. Scalbui, 3612 
a new branch of the engineering scien­
Victory liOne. 
ces, is a field which has become more 
CLEVELAND: Clayton G. Leroux, '37, Asisbtant Personnel Director, Monarch ^\lumi-prominent during the war years because num 3Ianufactarins^ Co., 9301 Detroit Ave* 
it treats of the scientific approach to 
DELAWARE: J. Fendall Ftanlnc, '37, 416 
the solution of mass production prob­
Geddes St., Wilmlncton. 
lems—the most efficient relationship be­
DETROIT: Thomas G. Kavanagh, '38, 1601­
:13 Dime Bide. tween men, machines and materials. 
THE FOURTH ANNUAL FUND 

The Annual Alumni Fund of the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame entered its fourth year on Jan. 1,1946. 
Pursuing a new policy approved by the Alumni Board, the progress of the Fund, which was demanding a larger and more vital space in the ALUMNUS, will from now on be published separately. 
Literature of solicitation for the Fourth Annual Fund should be in your hands by the time you read this. It has been ably prepared by an advisory com­mittee headed by Denis J. O'Neill, '26, Cleveland. 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. in his letter to you, has already outlined the purposes of this Fourth Fund, and the Alumni Office asks your prompt coopera­tion in the interest of several economies of operation. 
In the Fund bulletin which will be edited shortly you will be given details of the important allocation of the Fund, which, from the Centenary Fund on, has meant much to the progress • of Notre Dame in the critical war years, and which is even more vital in this period of reconversion and the development pro­gram ahead. 
Special mention should be made of the Classes of 1943 and 1944, for their out­standing record of participation in the Third Annual Fund, a leadership in loy­alty which is already reflected again in the early and unsolicited contributions since Jan. 1 to the Fourth Annual Fund, those Classes leading all others in the percentage of contributors. 
DR. POUND RETURNS 

Dr. Roscoe Pound, dean-emeritus of the Harvard Law School, will return to the Notre Dame campus to deliver a series of lectures on May 10,11, 17 and 
18. Dr. Pound has lectured at the Uni­versity annually since 1942. 
General topic of Dean Pound's lecture series will be "The Forms of Law." The first lecture will be entitled "Sources and Forms of Law;" the second "The Traditional Element;" the third, "The Imperial Element;" and the fourth "Codification." Members of the South Bend bar association will be special guests of the University at the lectures. Dean Clarence E. Manion of the College of Law at Notre Dame will preside. 
Dean Pound, who was dean of the Harvard Law School from 1916 to 1936, has- been engaged by the Chinese Gov­ernment to go to China this summer to assist the Chinese authorities in the codification of their legal system. He will leave for China shortly after he completes his series of lectures at Notre Dame. ­
Chemical Award to Dr. Price 
Honored by American Chemical Society at Semi-Annual Meeting 
Dr. Charles Price, head of the Depart­ment of Chemistry at Notre Dame, has been named recipient of the annual American Chemical Society' Award in Pure Chemistry for 1946, one of the top scientific honors of the nation. 
Announcement of Dr. Price's selection was made in April at the semi-annual meeting of the .A.merican Chemical Soci­ety. The award, sponsored by the Alpha Chi Sigma, chemical fraternity, is pre­sented annually to the leading chemist under 35 years of age in the United 
• States. It carries with it a $1,000 hono­rarium. 
Dr. Price received the award for his outstanding work in the field of theoreti­cal organic chemistry. He has been head of the Department of Chemisty at the University, long distinguished for its discoveries in chemistry, since Novem­ber, 1945. It was at Notre Dame that processes leading to the development of synthetic rubber and other notable chem­ical formulae were originated. 
Dr. Price came to Notre Dame from the University of Illinois where he had served for nine years as associate pro­fessor of physics. A native of Philadel­phia, Pa., he was graduated from Swarthmore in 1934 with high honors and received his doctorate from Har­vard in 1936. While at Harvard, Dr. Price held a university fellowship and worked under the distinguished Profes­sor Louis F. Fieser. He went to Illinois after leaving Harvard. 
Dr. Price has conducted extensive re­search in the field of high polymer chemistry, in which he has attained in­ternational distinction. During World War II he was engaged in important chemical warfare and antimalarial re­search for the United States govern­ment. At the University he has made important contributions to the develop­ment of antimalarial drugs now being carried on at Notre Dame. 
Last summer he was associated with the High Polymer Research Bureau of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, and he has recently become chairman-elect of the Gibson Island Polymer Con­ference to be held in 1947. Dr. Price is a member of the American Chemical So-city and of several honor societies, in­cluding Phi Beta Kappa fraternity. He has served as consultant to the Hercules Powder company, the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company, the Eli Lilly and Com­pany, and the Coca-Cola Company. Dr. Price also is an editor of the Journal of Polymer Science in New York. 
Believe it or not, this was once Brownson Hall, famed in the lives, songs and stories of numerous generations of Notre Dame men. The former holl is now di­vided into offices for: the local headquariers of the Veterans Administration; the director of Student Accounts; and the director of Publicity. 
- The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"BEST TEACHER" SCHOLARSHIP 

Notre Dame was named as one of the three universities at which the "best teacher in America" can receive a full year of academic scholarship, plus a $1,000 special prize, in a unique contest sponsored by the -Quiz Kids radio pro­gram and open to any grade or high school students in the United States. 
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, dean of the Graduate School, is on the committee of three educators selected to referee the contest. The other members are Dr. Ralph Tyler, chairman of the Depart­ment of Education at the University of Chicago, and Dr. Paul Witty, professor of education at Northwestern Univer­sity. 
Each contestant is to show how the teacher he has nominated for the title of "best teacher in America" has helped him, and the importance of that help. The writer of the best letter selected will be awarded §100, and the writers of the next 100. chosen by the judges \vill receive ten dollars each. 
The teacher winning the scholarship may select either Notre Dame, Chicago, or Northwestern as the school at which he may matriculate to receive the bene­fits of the scholarship. 
SOUTH AMERICAN SCHOOL 

One of the least-publicized projects developing immeasurable goodwill be­tween North and South Americans is St. George's College, an English-speaking school at Santiago, Chile, conducted since 1943 by priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The school is attracting more and m'ore attention in the United States. Lat­est to comment on the splendid work being done there is Maurice Early, col­umnist of the Indianapolis Star, who was recently in South America. In a re­cent article appearing in his newspaper, he wrote that since the Notre Dame 
.priests assumed direction of St. George's at the invitation of the archbishop of Santiago, the school's enrollment has jumped from 400 to 700. Buildings are being remodeled and enlarged, he de­clared. The.faculty comprises 47 instruc­tors, including lay teachers and priests. 
The president of St. George's is Rev. William C. Havey, C.S.C. Father Havey is assisted by six other C.S.C. priests: Rev. Alfred Send, Rev. James E. d'Au­trement. Rev. Theodore J. Huard, Rev. Joseph M. Doherty, Rev. George S. De-Prizio, and Rev. Francis A. Provenzano. 
Volume 24, No. 2, AprU, 1946 
LCBLND 
Notre Dame s Contribution to Bacteriology 
By ROBERT F. ERVIN. '36. Laboratories of Bateriolagy 
(Reprinted from the Notre Dame Schotastie) 

Through the years and especially during the war years there has been an air of mystery about Notre Dame's Labor­atories of Bacteriology (LOBUND for short). Lights burned all night, windows were frosted and doors were locked. Be­hind these doors was an "out of this world" array of special apparatus, a busy staff of full time scientific investigators, and a fascinating story of pioneer research. 
Notre Dame's LOBUND now occupies the ground floor of the Biology Building on the north side of the campus. In a suite of 23 specially designed laboratories, research of out­standing importance to biology, medicine, nutrition, and bio­logical engineering is being carried on. LOBUND, is a dis­tinct and unique division of the University devoted entirely to research and is not a part of any academic department. But it has not always been so. For the complete story let us go back through the years to 1928. 
In that year Professor James A. Eeyniers, then an under­graduate at Notre Dame and now director of LOBUND, started a series of experiments and visualized a long range basic research program in bacteriology. After graduation in 1930, he continued as an instructor in the Department of. Biology and was given a laboratory in Science Hall for his experimentation by Reverend Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, late Dean of the College of Science. 
Professor Reyniers' research program was aimed at in­vestigating bacteria and their functions through a direct and fresh approach. Up to that time, most of the work in bacteri­ology had been side-tracked from "pure" research to practi­cal or applied research. Much of the dramatic work of Past­eur and others near the turn of the century was based upon studying a disease and then searching for a bacterial cause. Therefore, the so called science of bacteriology grew by leaps and bounds and with much fanfare but with little basic knowledge. As would be expected, bacteriologists finally be­gan to realize that a science not based upon knowledge of its 
Prot I. A. Reynien, '30. Director of LOBUND. 
tools and basic units is very limited and tends to become sterile. It could be compared with the futility of attemptins the manufacture of an atomic bomb without knowledge baaed upon the atomic theory. 
Reyniers felt that one of the outstanding needs in bac­teriology was a system or technique whereby the old bacteri­ological bugbear of contamination could be eliminated. Throughout the history of this science, bacteriologists have been plagued with the inability to keep out unwanted bae-
One oi the fint pieces of geim-bee uppcuolua steiilited with steam under prasmze. Tins type oi eqnipawiit was used by Reyniers in obont 1931 wkm the wtA was con­fined to Science HolL 
teria from the cultures with which they were working and to corral in one place the cultures they were investigating. As an example of the former, let us suppose a scientist isolated a germ which he suspected to be the cause of a given disease. In order to prove this suspicion, he would probably inject an animal with the germs to see if the animal ouuufeated that disease. If in the meantime, a foreign organism got into his culture, the results in the animal would be ineondnsive siniee he was no longer sure of the "purity" of his cnltnie. This problem of contamination, then, was always present and ruined many an experiment after months of hard work. 
The xieed for isolating a culture under experiment can be exemplified in this manner; suppose a bacteriologist sets ont to work with a highly pathogenic (disease pradueing) organ­ism. If he does not confine that organism in bottles,, flasks, etc., of his own choosing, it may escape and cause disease and death to him and his fellow workers: The history of bac­teriology is filled with gold stars for snch men who have died that medical knowledge mif^t progrress. . 
Very early, Reynier» felt that if he could invent equip­
ment and develop techniques to solve some of these baaie 
problems, it would be possible to center at Notre Dame woik 
of outstanding importance. Thus in a Catholic university there could someday be built an institute devoted to the bene­fit of mankind and the advancement of science. This could not be done in a day nor could it be accomplished by merely following the well worn paths of traditional methods.in bac­teriology. 
With these goals in mind, with little equipment, and with great ambition, Beyniers started to work. He divided his efforts between two major projects, one in the field of mi­crurgical research and the other in the field of germ-free research. The term micrurgy literally means "small work." Its broad meaning is a science which concerns itself with all manipulation procedures carried out under a microscope. Instruments are now available for the dissection, isolation, injection, and manipulation of single organisms and cells so small that they may be seen only through a microscope. Eeyniers began working in micrurgy because he felt that only through this one technique could he directly approach' the problem of studying bacteria per se. In this field he de­veloped several new instruments and new methods.* 
His other major project, germ-free research, was on a much larger plane than micrurgy. He began experimenting with apparatus in which he could do all standard bacterio­logical procedures in the absence of contamination and with complete control over the environment and experimental con­ditions. His earlier apparatus (some of which is still on dis­play in the Science Hall museum) consisted of a glass bell jar into which a rubber glove was sealed at the top and which could be sterilized with germicide. In this crude apparatus 
(which had cotton air filters attached) Eeyniers was able to maintain sterile environment for a limited time and at the 
*
 In this he was aided hy his father and late brother, L. A. and Leon 

T.
 Reyniers *31, skilled instrument maimers of Chicago, Illinois. 


same time do some manipulating of interior equipment. As a matter of fact he was able to rear germ-free guinea pigs for 22 days in this outfit. It was not long, however, before he developed a larger box-like unit in which he had two rubber gloves, a Pyrex glass window, and better air filters. 
In all of these early models, attempts were made to rear germ-free animals in order to test the apparatus over long periods of time. At this time, the rearing of germ-free ani­mals was not the prime objective but served as excellent test material to indicate whether or not the system could be used to eliminate contamination during prolonged experiments. In all of these early models, germicides were used for steril­ization and it was soon apparent that this was not the cor­rect approach. Keyniers was, at that point, confronted with the same problem which had prevented earlier workers in Germany and France from developing successful germ-free apparatus. 
At this time (1933) a young student in biology applied to Reyniers for a job helping with the experiments. His name was Philip C. Trexler, now head of the Micrurgical Division and in charge of all technical developments for LOBUND. Eeyniers put him on the micrurgical instruments and assist­ing with the design and construction of the germ-free appar­atus. 
As soon as it was realized that apparatus sterilized with germicides was unsuccessful, work was immediately begun on equipment which could be sterilized with steam under pres­sure. This was the big step forward—the step to eventual success through an avenue of heartaches. 
With no funds for tools or apparatus, Eeyniers and Trex­ler improvised, "borrowed," and begged for the materials to build the early units. With full teaching schedules and no 
A photograph taken in the Division of Biological Engineering, showing germ-free equipment combined with other apparatus to caiT7 out some of the work described in the accompanying article. 
trained technicians, the two worked night after night and many times all night designing, building and testing the steam sterilized cages. These first units were of the very crudest types, flimsily built, and dangerous to work with. As Reyniers now relates, "The walls of one cage were so weak that Trex and I could see them bulge with only five pounds of steam pressure and we were never sure they would hold the pressure." With such frail homemade apparatus, it would sometimes take 24 hours to sterilize one cage because of danger of explosions if higher pressures were used. 
Professors Ervin (left) and Trexler (right) are shown working with the type of germ-free apparatus used in Science Hall about 1935. This was just prior to the removal of the Laboratories of Bacteriology into the new Biology building. It should be noted that the valves, cages, and piping necessary for the sterilization of these units were much more complicated than those illustrated in an ac­companying photograph of the more modem apparatus. 
About this time, both Father Wenninger and Rev. John 
F. O'Hara, C.S.C., then President of Notre Dame and now Bishop of the Diocese of Buifalo, became more interested in these experiments and the enthusiasm of the scientists. They began to make more funds available to them and also per­mitted some enlargement of the quarters in Science Hall. Although Father Wenninger encouraged these men, he fret­ted and fumed about the long hours spent on the work and even passed special rules regarding work after dark in Sci­ence Hall. Reyniers obtained especially dark window shades and worked on night after night. The good Dean Wenninger soon gave up as he realized that these were unusual people working on an unusual and very promising research program. 
After months of effort, it became apparent that the basic idea for germ-free apparatus which could be steam sterilized was sound and that animals could be maintained germ-free over long periods of time. With this point proved and with promising results from the micrurgical apparatus, funds became available to have the equipment made by commercial firms outside the University. It was also apparent that the quarters (now composed of six laboratories) were too small to house the experiments. Reyniers was therefore instructed to draw up plans for a new Biology building, one floor of which would be devoted to the Laboratories of Bacteriology. This was in 1935. 
In the spring of 1936 ground was broken for the building. As construction went forward on the building the experi­ments continued day and night in old Science Hall. It was during this year that the group was joined by the writer of this article after receiving his degree from the College of Science. These three, Reyniers, Trexler, and the writer, now constitute the administrative staff of LOBUND. 
As new apparatus (now made of mond metal, stainless steel, or plated brass) began to arrive, more and more help was needed to carry on the more elaborate experiments. Most of this help was obtained by using graduate assistants and even undergraduate students who were attracted to Reyniers and "Company."* As the work received more and more at­tention outside the University, a full time secretary was hired. A janitor was converted into a stockroom keeper. An animal caretaker was employed. 
With this very meager staff, the germ-free apparatus and all the other scientific paraphenalia were moved into the new building in June, 1937. This was indeed a big change. From six small crowded rooms in Science Hall, the group moved into one of the finest sets of specially designed laboratories in the country. Here were air-conditioned animal rooms, sterilization laboratories, machine shops, offices, micrurgical laboratories, classrooms, autopsy rooms, a chemistry labor­atory, a darkroom and a large stockroom. In all, 23 white-tiled, fire-proof laboratories are devoted to bacteriological re­search and teaching. 
Year after year, in this building, the work has expanded and the staff increased. The seemingly insurmountable tech­nical difficulties of the early days have been overcome and the long hours spent have been well rewarded. The early criticisms which always accompany pioneering effort have been silenced by the results. 
As the research program grew and the amount of appar­atus increased, a division of authority and a segregation of the main research problems became necessary. LOBUND is therefore now divided into three Divisions of Research, viz: the Division of Germ-free Research, the Division of Micrurg­ical Research, and the Division of Biological Engineering. Reyniers is Director of LOBUND, Trexler is Head of the Micrurgical Division and in charge of all technical develop­
* Some of these "midniKht oil burners" -were: Joseph Cordaro, 1934­1938; Aloysius Lorenc. 19S6-: Arthur Phillips, 19S7-: Robert Nelson. 19S8­1941: Howard Murdock, 1938-1940: John Helnier, 1938-1939; Edward Foley. 1939-1942 : John Reback, 1939-1945: James Casper, 1940-1942: Morris Wag­ner, 1941-: John Davis. 1943-: Bernard Teah. 1943-; and Julian Pleasants, 1944-. 
Illustrating the type ol genn-faae cppearalm naad at LOBUND from 1939 to the present. An operating cog* in which caesarian operationa on aaimala or* peifeimed is shown at left The four other units in this photograph are rearing cages. This picture was token in the Diviaien of Germ-free Research. 
ments for LOBUND, and the writer is presently Head of the Germ-free Division and in charge of all business details for LOBUND. The Head of the Division of Biological Engineer­ing is to be appointed. One member of the grroup, Arthur W. Phillips, is now on leave at M.I.T. to take his doctorate in Biological Engineering. The remainder of the staff is com­posed of senior technicians, junior technicians, scientific help­ers, machinists, secretaries, a stockroom attendant and an animal caretaker, twenty in all. 
The research program has gained national and inter­national acclaim. Scientists with a wide variety of interests are visiting Notre Dame's LOBUND to study its unique approach to some of modem science's most perplexing prob­lems. Many of these world renowned individuals and organ­izations are bringing problems to LOBUND and are asking for cooperative research projects. For example, it is gener­ally acknowledged that withou t the germ-free technique (perfected and furthest advanced at LOBUND) certain im­portant phases of vitamin research will be impossible. The search for new vitamins vn\l be greatly limited without germ-free animals. 
Some of the more interesting problems which have been or are being worked on include: investigation of the cause of tooth decay with the University of Chicago's Zoller Clinic; the use of germ-free life in nutintion studies with the Kel­logg Company; the study of an important disease of chickens (lymphomatosis) in cooperation with the U. S. Regional Poultry Research Laboratory at East Lansing, Michigan; and germ-free chickens and their use in vitamin research with Parke-Davis and Company. In addition to these specific problems of great and immediate "practical" importance, LOBUND continuously carries on its own basic program of research. This basic or theoretical research is as important as the other. 
Other important achievements have included the design and testing of a new method for the prevention of air-borne epidemics among infants and others in nurseries, orphan­ages and hospitals. This, the Reyniers Cubicle System, has been installed and in use at the Cradle in Evanston, Illinois, for more than five years. Clinical reports indicate that this system is most successful for the purpose. 
Among the germ-free specimens reared and studied are monkeys, guinea pigs, rats, flies, dogs, cats and chickens. While the apparatus and the techniques presented many problems, each of these forms of life demanded separate and intensive study to overcome the difficulties inherent in the rearing of germ-free animals. For example, it takes approxi­mately 500 man-hours of work to rear one litter of white rats to 30 days of age. Well over 50 different formulae have been tried in perfecting a satisfactory diet for a germ-free white rat. 
Micrurgy has developed along many lines, one of which resulted in a method for single cell isolation. Micro-needles, sharpened electrically, and guided by mechanical fingers are used to "fish" the microscopic cells from under the micro­scope one at a time. Preliminary work on a machine for mechanically counting living bacteria was starting in 1932. Since that time circuits, as yet unpublished, similar to those used in counting the discharges of Geiger-Muelle'r tubes 
have been developed. With these circuits, plates having over a thousand groups of bacteria may be counted in less than 30 seconds with an accuracy not approachable by the human eye in routine work. 
While the emphasis throughout this paper has been on the use of the germ-free apparatus for rearing germ-free animals, it must be noted that this is only one phase. Of al­most equal importance is the fact that organisms can be sealed into the units as well as kept from entering if not wanted. Thus, in the Germ-free Division, all bacteria are excluded from the interior while in the Division of Biological Engineering, known cultures of any organism are intro­duced and isolated from all other types. Neither can these organisms get out of their locked environment Thus it is possible to perform experiments with deadly pathogens and with complete safety to the scientist. 
With the beginning of hostilities in 1941, LOBUND's activities were shielded behind the necessary security of wartime, the staff went onto an accelerated schedule, and much of the basic research program was stopped "for the duration." Our government took over these facilities for war research. Reyniers was called into the Navy as a biological engineer. The story of these events was carried in the March 29, 1946 issue of The Scholastic. 
Reconversion of LOBUND from the war effort is now almost completed. The regular peacetime schedule of research is well under way. The doors are still locked, not because of secret research but rather because of work being done with highly contagious organisms. It is necessary to prevent visitors from wandering unguided through the laboratories. However, this does not mean that visitors are unwelcome. 
And so the staff of LOBUND looks back at 18 years of interesting and productive .research, it works day and night on many outstanding problems of current importance and it looks ahead to contributing even greater benefits for human­ity in the future. 
This illustrates the type oi appaiatus used in modem micTuxgiccil zeseoorch. Injections and manipulations of mic­roscopic speamens can be performed with instruments of this land. This was taken in the Division of Micrurgical Research. 
Volume 24, No. 2, AprU, 1946 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Berrien-Cass tMichJ 
Minium II. Downey, '28, 60 K. St, Joseph Ave.. >'iles, Mich., Fres.; Sheridan Cook» '33, 303 S. St. Joseph Ave., Niles 3Iich., Sec. 
The club was reorganized in March at a dinner meeting in the home of Professor Dow­ney, Niles. Ofiiccrs chosen were Pn>res8«ir Dow­ney, president; .>Iauriee Weber, St. Joseph, vice-president; SherWan Cmik, secretary; and Donahl Dick, Niles, treasurer. Casper Grath­wohl and Thomiis Farrell,. Niles. and Robert Steivart. Edwardsburg, were named heads of the program, arrangements and membership conimltteos respectively. 
Buffalo 
Dr. Robert J. Bums, *2G, 418 Brisbane BldfT-* I'res.; Joseph F. Ityan. *39, 50 Fron­tennc Ave., Sec. 
The club gave a luncheon to the Notre Dame basketball team ana coaches on Feb. 7 in the Hotel Sheraton. Tom Condon was the toast­master and Introduced the principal speaker, Frank I>eahy. The Notre Bamc team was to appear In Memorial Auditorium in the eve­ning against the Canisius College quintet. Joe Ryan, chairman of the committee which ar­ranged the affair, was assisted by Dr. Robert Bums, acting club president, and Jack Kuhl­nuiim, club treasurer. 
On ^larch 6 Rev. Francis P. Guodall, C.S.C, met wfth the members of the club gathered in the Hotel Sheraton. He emphasized the Alumni Association's program in vocational counseling and job placement as being one important phase of club activity. 
Capitol District 
Walter A. O'Brien, *3l, 2M Partridge St., Albany- 3, N. V., Frcs.; Charles £. Welsh, '38, 1016 Gillespie St., S<*taenectady 8, 
X. Y„ Sec. 
The Alumni Association program was ex­plained by Father Francis F. Goodall, C.S.C.. as he appeared on March 4 before the club at an, evening gathering in the gymnasium of. Vincentian Institute, Albany, operated by the Brothers of Holy Cross. "With the cooperation of the Brothers, Father Goodall also presented tlie campus film. 
Central New York 
lluwley £. Van Swall, '41, 109 Janet St., S.vra4;u:«, Fres. 
Father Guodall, of the Alumni Office, was In Syracuse on Feb, 2S and March 1 for an In­formal visit. Earlier plans to have a club meeting, with Father Goodall as the chief speaker, were postponed when it was discovered that letters from the Alumni Office to the club officers had failed to make proper con­nections. 
Cincinnati 
J. Walter >'ienaber, '3', 2106 Alpine fluce, Pres.; ICobert J. Leonard '41, 25M Careiv Tower, See. 
The club held its spring reunion on March 22 In the Cincinnati Club. Kev. Fnuids F. Goodall, C.S.C., spolce on U»e University's plans and on the program of the Alumni Association and showed sound and motion, pictures of cam­pus life. Alumni from southern Ohio and northern Kentucky were Invited to attend. Kon-urd >*iennber, president, presided. 
Cleveland 
Fdward B. Killeen, '33, 3158 Montgomery Rd., Fres.; Clarence J. Koziik, ex. *30, 5235 Cato St., Maple Heights, O., Sec. 
On February 21 we sponsored a banquet welcoming Fnu-k L.eali>' home from the Navy. In less than 12 hours Frank did a radio broad­cast, conducted a two-hour football clinic for about TO high school coaches from the Cleve­land area, and was the guest and principal speaker at tlie banquet, which was held in the Cleveland hotel.. 
Over 300 Notre Dame entliusiasts heard Prank declare that neither Army nor any other team would beat Notre Bame 4S-0 this year. Dan Duffy was teastmaster and introduced such notables as Mayor Tom Burke. Tom Bj'rne and Don Miller, Floyd Rowe, director of physical welfare with the Cleveland School Board. Also at the head table were-Father Jim Moran on terminal leave from the Army. Chuck Mooney, member of the Board of Hducation, Mr. Gunn, president of the Cle\'eland Trust Bank, Father Michael Jloriarity and Tom Lenehan. secretary of the American Federation of Labor. 
Put Canny, chairman of the committee which handled the n^alr, was given able assistance by Gcoi^e K<izak, Joe Gavin, John Reidy, £d Carey, Norb Roscher, Stan Cofull, Al Grisanti, Don Miller and Nitrni Greeney. Cliuek Rohr garnered first prize for bringing in the most guests. 
Dr. 3lyron Crawford is back In private prac­tice here after his discharge from the Army. Jim Callahan ended his Army career as a ser­geant and instructor in the Tank Corps at Port Knox. 
Al Grisanti has left National Bronze and Is associated with his old football coach, Dan Duffy, in the law business. C. J. Koiak 
Delaware 
J. Fndall S^ninr* "ST, 416 Geddes St, Wilmlnffton, Fns.; John £. Bclth, '41, !• » Park Place. Wilmington, Sec. 
The lAiuis Alamans* report a second addition. Gregory Sebastian, born Jan. 14. 
Among the club members' activities can be listed Twui Decnan's regular appearances as radio speaker for the local Catholic Forum of the air, and John VtfiMiac^ Oui Irwin, BUI Murray and others' handling of the local Grade School C. T. O. Basketball licague. A lot of credit to John for beating things into shape. 
Rd Dillon and Riiss Koriz are shlning^ up their golf clubs, waiting for the course to thaw. Ed Bried was over for the last meet­ing—hadn't seen him for quite a while. Bob Toson was down from Phllly for a meeting recently. 
Tentative plans now call for a dance, at a date near Universal Notre Dame night, April 
29. It Is hoped that the club can sponsor regular dances, and so have an activity tliat w*ives as well as club members can enjoy. 
John E. Rrith 

Detroit 
George B. Monis, *39, 610 Blaine Ave., FreH.: rt. Edward C. Roiiey, '43, 1733; Jroqnt^ Ave., Sec. 
Eighty-two members of a greater and still growing Detroit Club met for their annual meeting Jan. 4 to elect their officers for 1946 and were honored In having for' their speaker of the evening, the Rev. John J. Cavanaocli, C.S.C.* vice president of tlie University. 
George B. Morris, Jr., moved from the vice-president slot into the president's position. George is now in the Itabor Relations Depart­ment of General Motors. I« William JFory, 
Father Francis P. Goodall, C.S.C, of the University met with the Erie Club at a dinner on Feb. 25. Standing, left to right, are: Charles Wittmann, George Mead, Frank McCarthy, Robert Barber, Walter Luedtke, OIlie Hnnter, Sam Yezerski, John Roscher, Paul Carr, Phil Bayer, Dave Horton and Lawrence 
Stadler. Seated, left to right. Ward Leahy, Gerard O'Connor, Joseph Barber, Richard Daley, Robert Weschler, Ed McLaughlin, James Dwyer, Leo Brugger, Father Goodall, Tom Barber and Leo Carney. 
C 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
wlio was editor of the club's paper "^otre Dame in Service." which was mailed to all Detroit Notre Dame servicemen during the war, AviU head the club's Veterans' Affairs Com­mittee, in addition to his duties as the new vice-president. 
Two "almost-ex" servicemen will occupy tlie posts of secretarj* and treasurer. I*t. Kiiwurfl 
C. Koney, Jr., CSNR is secretary and I^t. Panicl 
F. Bradley, USMCK, Is the treasurer. 
The outgoing officers, lieaded by Ex-Presi­dent Normun J. Krt'dericUs, presented a well 
•written and primed report of the past year's activities. 
The trustees for this year are: J«>sfph IJuch, John W. Itrennan, Tlieodorc F. Felflman, 1.. William Fury, Malcolm F. Knaus, X.«uis "\V. Xumian, A. C. Buur, Jr., Henry J. Clark, Kurman J. Fredericks, Mattlien* P. Garripan, Oeoi^e B. 3l(>rris, Jr., lEarr?* B. Stillman and honorarj- Trustee David Van Wallace. 
After several meetings of the new oflicers. a trustees' meeting was held on ilarch 2 at which Assistant National Alunini Secretar>' %\llliain IC, Dmtley was present. The appoint­ment of several men as chairmen of new com­mittees was announced by President Jlorris. Thumus G. Kiwmaigh is the new head of the vocational committee and will have Art Groiiin, Henn.- Clark, and JoUn Brcnnun assisting liim. Jim Motschall is chairman of the new publicity committee; J*»e Bach heads the Athletic Com­mittee and Mul Knaus Is to act as Ilason man between the club and the reactivated Detroit Club on the campus. 
Over 300 members of the Club and "their friends were among the 10,000 who watched Notre Dame's great basketball team trim the team of the University of Detroit, 67-3S, in the flnal game of the season. Such an attend­ance indicated the popularity of Notre Dame teams around these parts. 
Plans are being made for Detroit's par­ticipation In Universal Notre Dame Night, April 29. Kcl Koney 
Erie 
James B. Divyer, Jr.. '37. 400G State St., Pres.; Ji>seph C. Barber, *36, 412 Newinan St., Sec. 
Father FmncLs V. Goodall, C.S.C., of the University appeared before three Catholic group.s in Erie on Feb. 24 and 25. On Feb. 24 he was presented to 200 members of Erie Council. Knights of Colunibus, at a third degree exemplification. On Feb. 25 in the afternoon lie showed the campus film to students of Cathedral Prep and in the evening he repeated for the members of the local Notre Dame club, following a dinner. 
The club met again on March 7, to elect the following new officers: Jim Dwyrr, president; Phil Bayer, vice-president; J(»e Bnrber, secre­tary and treasurer. 
Kenfueky 
Marion Hvffeman, '28. 1S30 Frankfurt Ave.. liODisTllle. I*reN.; Eugene J. Sleaerle, '23, Kentucky H<ime Life Bids., Louisville. Sec. 
Needless to say, all the members of the club and the local followers of Notre Dame w^ho were fortunate enough to buy tickets were de­1 ighted by Notre Dame's basketbal 1 victorj­over the University of Kentucky here Jan. 26, 
Uncle Billy Bosler, our ticket representative, was given a rising vote of thanks by the mem­bers present at our February meeting for his hard work expended In securing- tickets to tlie game. 
Our March meeting was the final meeting to be conducted by President Mariim IlefTemun. At that meeting arrangements were made for the forthcoming election of the new officers and their installation on Universal Notre Dame Night. That night the club will give a dinner-dance, inviting the wives, sweethearts, and friends. Fujci^ne J. Steuerle 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA 
By LT. NEIL McCARTV, '42 
 left to xicbt, Xell BfcCttrty, *4*, 3Ianrifjp 

Rifnnte, '34, Fiat Sitt, '40, Antonio F. Gonzales, 'SS, dab pmident, Enriqae Brias, '37, and Stateside alumni present at the affair In­John Sievert, '41. Their zatsks were SOss Terry M^^ona, Mfes Florence Benesch, JA. Fcam cluded: R. Dooney, '46;Jblin Mnrmy, '44; Chas. Kirobell, AXC, Mrs. A, F. Gonzalez, Miss Lolet Morata and Miss Chifiui Ortlsw. 
iSc7iding tJiis epochal story to the ALCMXUS, Neil McCartv wrotci **Tony Gonzalez found out about vty 19^1 'Dome" connection and asked ine to do the -publicity on the Notre Dame Club of Manila. I was more than happy to do so, shtcc, throu-gh the club, J liave met some wonderful people here in Manila and hare had the happiest tour of duty since coming overseas. ... 
"Rosters of men at the ajgairs iccre incomplete and names were often barely Icpible. I've done tny bcstt howevcTf and hope that the men icill under­stand." 
The ALtratNUS is grateful to Neil (editor-in­chief of the excellent 19^1 **Domc**) for an admir­able, comprehensive piece of icrittn^ about what is, certainly, one of the heights of Notre Dame alumni history. The universality of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame spirit was never better em­phasized.—ED. ) 
MANILA.—Climaxing a busy round of dances and stag parties that have made fast friends of many Manila and U. S. Notre Dame men. the Notre Dame Club of Manila staged a successful Christmas Dance Dec 27, 1945, at the "Taza de Oro" on Dewey boulevard, facing ship-filled Manila harbor. 
General chairman of the dance was Antonio 
F. Gonzalez, *25, manager of the Insular Life Assurance company and one of Manila's lead­ing citizens. Tony, first post-liberation presi­dent of the club, was ably assisted in making arrangements for the dance by JA. Harold A. "Pat" Sitt, '40, square-jawed Irish-American from Chicago. Sitt has become the leading Notre Dame booster in Manila since his arrival from New Guinea in June, 1945; a ubiquitous person with a pocketful of names, addresses and telephone numbers and with a watchful eye on class-ring fingers. 
Chairman of the important Food Committee was Quartermaster officer Maurice J. Kigjnte, *34, of Plainfield, N, J. Co-chairmen of the date committee were Xeil J, McCarty, '42, Kau­kauna. Wis., and John Sievert, '41, Des Moines, la. Bnriqne Brias, '37, Manila, assisted with arrangements. Music was furnished by an S6th Division orchestra. 
B. Kenuud. '46; George E. Brown, Jr., '46; Joseph B. Zwers, '3S; Coe McKenna, '42; Xarry Majewski, *41; George A. Bariscillo, Jr., '44; Robert E. O'Malley, '44; Bemanl F. Brelil, Jr., 
•42; Tim Green, '42; Dick Leon, '44; X. S. An­derson, '39; Tom O'Keil, '37; Everett I^ewis, '44; J. G. Buttress, '38; I<ouls Bums, '44; Dick Pedrotty. '44; A. S. Ripley, '33; G. W. Cannon, Jr., '36; Zig Czarwliski, '45; and Cliuries Fair­bratn. 
iManlla alumni at the dance were: A. F. Gonzalez. '25; Enrique BHas, '37; Flo Gonzalez. Jr., '23; Igiiacio P. Arroyo, '40; J. P. Gonzalez, 

Committee cjtairmen for the dance were, 
'23; R. J. Gonzalez. *22; Eduanio .Melinn, '31; Le* Melian, '29. The ladies includes: Mrs. A. 
F. Gonzalez. Mrs. R. J. Gonz.ilez. Mrs. Nieves Aquino, Mrs. Salud Ruiz Jimenez, Mrs. P. Lantok, the Misses Tina Pellicer. Florence Benesch. Josephine Brias, Ofella Brias. Marina Barretto. Alma Ferraz, Rosie Genato. Mary Lou Jensvold, ARC; Lt. Fearn Klmbell. ANC; Sherry Lantok, Terry Magalona, Toby Mon­serrat. Angel ilonserrat, Lolet Moreta, Hosie Moreta. Chiqui Ortlgas, Lt. Jean Rhoda. ANC; Gloria Jimenez and Nati Ugarte. 
The Notre Dame Club of Manila was organ­

Volume 24, No. 2, April, 1946 
ized ill 1924. There were but a handful of members then, nmong^ them ICafa«I Gonzalez. *22. the first SCnnila boy to graduate from Xotre Dame, and A. Ponce £nri!e, a prominent ^Manila attorney who had attended Notre Dame back in 1906. The club continued to grow throughout the twenties, with occasional meet­ings during vacation periods. However, jammed social calendars in the country-club atmosphere of. pre-war Manila brought activities Into a state of suspension about 1935. This was the condition when the Japs occupied Manila on Jan. 2, 1942, beginning ii three-year occupation during which practically all social activity ended. 
The axiom that you can't keep X. D. men apart was never proved more true than in the liberation of the Philippines. Beginning with tlie 11th Airborne Division landings on south­ern Luzon in January*. 1945, American serx'Ico­nien began to seek out Xotre Dame alumni. I>oit llalpiii, *2G, found Tony and Kiluiirdo Koxus on their hacienda at Nasugbu shortly after he la nded, and reported it in a letter to the ".\lumnus." Miijor tlohn Koach. '27, met Tony Gonzalez in Atanlla during April. ClifT Brosey, M2. had been asked by Elmer Ijiyflen to look u|> his old classmate Tony, and located him in June. Col. B:»b ICiordun^ •24, Xotre Dame registrar on military leave of absence, also located Tony Gonzalez In June. Ted Sellner, ex. *44, visited Flo Gonzalez In October. Mike Arroyo, *40. drove up to Clark Field to find his old buddy Col, Jock llenebrj-, '40, air base com­mander, but Henebry had left just several days previously for the States. Majjr Don Connors, "Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame** ... . Shaking domwk the thonder are, left to riffht, '42. English-major turned army engineer, met Georse Bariscillo, Jr., '44, Dick Leon, '44, Bob 0*Maller, *4S, and Dick Fcdrotty, *44. 
Pete lAm, *25. and Johnny Gotauco, '24, in late spring. 
The first olTIcial meeting of Notre Dame men 
in Manila resulted from a decision reached at •43, l*S»t Sitt, '40. and Mike Arroyo, '40, that that was open for private parties in the eve­Wack W'ack Country Club one evening by IValt something must be done to get all Notre Dame ning. A committee composed of Sitt, Xanrice >*ienul>er, '37, Cliff Buckley. '41. Tim Green, men In the area together. Accordingly, Xle-RiKante, Joe Zwers and the president was 
naber Inserted a notice in a" early-November. appointed to make the necessary arrange­1945; edition of the "Daily Paclfican." Army ments. newspaper in the Philippines, announcing that all Notre Dame men would meet nt Ye Olde The November dance held at the "Taza de ^lansion, popular ^lanlla nightclub, for a re­Oro" was a big success. Sitt got the band. union. On the scheduled night Notre JDame Rlgante got the food. Gonzalez and Zwers men of all descriptions, from majors through 
helped with the dates. The roster of attendees seamen second class to civilians in Palm Beach suits descended on Ye Olde Mansion for a memorable evening of reminiscing, driuklnjr and singing. 
Father Thomas E. Hewitt, C.S.C.. had come down from Clark Field for the occasion and SJVve a good pep talk on the Alma Mater. Cmdr. John Ilobun, '34, led the aggregation in the "Victory March" and the "Hike Song." while Enrique Brtus jumped up on a chair and led several "He's a ilan" cheers, along with the rousing "Drum Tell." 
Forty - eight alumni were present at tlie initial meeting. They were: Kugene Bomeam, ex. *46; Joseph J. Breimun, ex. '44; Charles B. Kenuud. ex. '46; Prank P. GiMMlmun, '44; George 
E. Brown. Jr., ex. '46; Walter S. 3Umler, '42; James S. Rigiiey, '30; Jose 31. Hernandez, '31; Ernest J. Tursich, e.x- '45; Peter M. Iam» e.x. '26; John F. Cotunco, '24; J. Walter Nienaber, '37; ^\rch F. Gott, '37; Joseph E. Chriittiun; John T. Corrigun, '35; Fred J. Carideo, '36; Gonzulo R. Valdes '35; I^eopoldo Melian, *30; Antonio Kuxos, '26: Eduurdo Melian, *3l; Bobprt C- Bonkump, '34; Maurice J. Bigante, '34; Mar­tin E. O'Shnughnessy; John J< O'ShaoRhnessy, Ignacio ^Vrroyo, '40; John. J. Hoban, '34; En­rique Brius. '37; Jos. B. Zuers. M. B. M injcoren, 
A. G. Sentierio, Edward J. Upton, Geonce Mar­cucci, Clifford G. Buckley, '41; Ifarold A. Sitt, 
•40;
 A. F. Gonzalez, '25; Xeil J. McCarty, '42; R- D, Willemin, '42; Hm Green, '43; Frank 3Iiltner, '40; Jim Bnsus, '39; John B. Bvicb. 

•34;
 Eduiudo Roxas, *33; John C. Maloney, '43; Louis J. Bums, Jr., *44; Idiu-rence C. Majcw­ski, '41; John Flynn, '33; lather T. E. Hewitt, C.S.C., '45; and Dan DuKsnn, '24. 


In the midst of the happy confusion, new officers of the Notre Dame Club of Manila were elected: A. F. *'Tony^' Gonzalez, '25, to the presidency, and Enriaue Brias, '37, to the secre­
CHie-inan **rcvolt** against G. I. clothes was taryship. H. A. "l*at" Sitt moved that a dance Mtaced by Harold A. **Fat" Sitt, who pcffsed be held later in the month. He pointed out Hasidest coaple on the daace floor was the bis troosezB and wore a drmve-shape sport coat that there was a large house on Dewey boule­>'aT3r-Ked Cross coaple ef Zigsr CMmrolbBki, until tlie Manila heat forced liim to discard it. vard which had escaped the shelling and was famed tackle of '4S, mnr letMaed t* the Uni­Pat had been overseas a lone time. now the "Taza de Ore." a daytime coffee shop versity, and Miss Mary tarn Jessvvld. 
includes such sterling- characters ns: George BarisciUo, '44; J. £. Christian, '44; J. \V. Sie­xert. Ml; Tim Green, '43; ITather Tom Jiewitt, *45; Tony Roxas, *2C; Geori^e Morcacci, '41; Tom. Hcllner, ex. '43; Eduardo 3Ielian, '31; Jim Brias, '39; l«ais J. Boms, ex. '44; Slike Arroyo, '40; R. I^ Hiellmath, '42; Peter M. Lim, ex. '26; 
J. M. O'Shaugrhness)', '33; U C. Majewski, '41; B, A. Bcr«ns, '40; M. J. Ri«:ante, '34; A. F. Gonzalez, '25; John J. Uobon, '36; Seni Rcnier, 
•34.
 jr. J. McGoire, '45, Xeil J. McCarty, '42; Zig CiarDbski, '45; Ednardo Roxas, '31; Richard 

C.
 ]>on, *44; Enrique "Mike" Biios, *37; Edward 

J.
 Upton, '39; Florencio Gonxalez, '23. 


Rafael J. "Duke" Gonzalez, '22; Robert Welrel, '37; John F. Gutuaco, '24; J. E. Gibson, '43; D. £. O'Shau^hncssy, '45; H. E. O'Shauph­nessy, '40; Robert G> Sanford, '40; Leo Helion, '30; Joseph Zwers, '3S; Harold A. Sitt. '41 and CUfT Buckley, '41. 
Unable to attend were: John Clark, ex. '46; Raj- Eickler, *33; Phil Faherty, '33; Tom Can­non. '33; and Jim Bj'rne. *39. Flo Gonzalez did his best, but staunch Alfunzo Zobel refused to be lured to the dance. Lt. Col. Jake Zjbcl, guerrila leader during the occupation, was away from Manila with the Philippine Army. 
Tony Gonzalez gave a short speech welcom­ing the U. S. servicemen to the dance. Enrique Brias followed with a rendition of "Amapola" tliat should make him the "Voice of the Islands." 
On the following evening a Requiem mass for the intention of Notre Dame men killed in "World War II was celebrated by Father He­witt, at the Redemptorist Chapel on Dewey Blvd. 
A stag party was held at the "Taza de Oro" early In December, at which plans were laid for the Christmas Dance. Tlie comparatively small crowd attested to the demobilization of troops to the States, even though the ilanlla demonstrations seemed to deny it. 
The future of the Kotre Dame Club of Man­ila, according to its president, is brighter than it was before the war. It is planned to have another dance Sunday evening, March 17th, and to follow this with regular meetings and occasional parties. 
Milwaukee 
Edn^rd J. Rosers, '17, 709 K. lUh St.. 
Pres.; Riiderick £ . Sullivan, '24. 4432 N. 
Woudrnff Ave., Sec 

Quite a number of club members attended the Notre Dame-Marquette game in a body, and It was a tine game in spite of the wrong ending. Somehow or other Marquette seems able to rise to great heights when Notre Dame comes to town. 
Jolin Vr> Roach has returned to his job as head of the Wisconsin State Beverage and Cigarette License Division after three years in the army. John was given the job of setting up a police department in Manila, and was instrumental in solving some interesting cases there. 
We had a call recently from Jim Knrr, '40, back from the wars and a settled married man. "We know that there must be more of the boys coming home, and we'd appreciate hearing • from them. Call the secretary at Edgewood 4540 any evening, or drop a card to him at 4433 N. Woodruff Ave-. Milwaukee 11. Wis. 
Rod Snlllran 

Monongoiiefa Vattey 
Edward J. Dean, 'S8, 11 Idnden Ave., 
Monessen, Pa., Pres.; Georse C. Startinet, 
'M, B. B. No. 1, <»iarieroi. Pa., Sec. 

Six of us held a meeting In late January* for the purpose of organization, and adopted the name of the Kotre Dame Club of the Monongahela Valley (Mon. Valley for short). Our regular meetings will be held on the first Thursday of each month, with, of course, • any other special meetings which might crop up. 
The following is a list of the members and of tlic oflicers elected during the January meeting: 
Edtvard Dean, *2S, president; James Russell, '29, vice-president; Georre 3Iartinet, '34, secre­tary*; A. Vincent Capono, '26, treasurer; Louis Apune, '41, publicity-; Charies Montgomery, '35, prospective student counselor. IVilUam Goc­gins, ex. '30, Georxe Kovalcik, *39. and Babl Puglia. '41, are the other members on the list, but have not as yet been able to attend a meeting. ^ 
Our first affair open to the public will be 

an observance of the anniversary of the death 
of Knule Rockne. We have extended Invita­
tions to about 150 men throughout the district 
to attend Mass and receive Holy Communion 
with us on that day, March 31. We will also 
observe Universal Notre Dame Night. 
George Martinet 

New Jersey 
Richard J. Dericks. *3I 347 Puxton St., piUerson, Pres.; WUIiam M. Bolchoz, '40, Seton Hall Preparatory School, South OranKe, Sec. 

The club held its second post-war meeting at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark on Feb. 
5. President Dick Dericks presided. In addi­tion to the alumni listed In the February Issue of the "Alumnus," the following were present: Les JandoU, Ed KIrby, Cliff Titllman, Banl Morrison, Clark Reynolds, Dan Sullivan, Walter McXally, Bob Larkin, Jim and Bill Waldrtin, Jay 3Iartin, B. Reilly, IVank Troy, Tom For­rell, Andrew O'Keeffe, Bill Uurpliy and Ed Duggaii. 
The March meeting was a very lively one, with 40 present. We decided first upon meet­ing In downtown Newark on March 31 to attend Mass an^ Communion In commemoration of the anniversary of the death of Knute Rockne. 
Our plans were begun for the observance of Universal Notre Dame night with the appoint­ment of PlUl Heinle as chairman of the com­mittee in charge. 
Frexy Dick Dericks made announcement of • the elections coming up, and also, according to our constitution, appointed a nominating committee to name candidates. 
Bill Dooley, assistant alumni secretary, sketched out for us the trends and develop­ments presently appearing on Notre Dame's post-war campus, and was ready with the answers on Notre Dame affairs for inquirers. 
Bill 31. Bolchoz 

New roric Cify 
Ednin A. Beiker}*,*37, Emigrant Industrial 
Savings Bonk, 51 Chambers St., Pres.; 
•lohti A. Iluyt. Jr., '33. Jordanuff Aviation Corp., 595 3fodison Ave., Sec. 

The meeting at the Park Lane Hotel on March 13 was the biggest in many years, with 250 present. Jack Hoyt, secretary, reports faces of men long absent from the meetings. Jim MucDeiitt had arranged a pre-St. Patrick's Day program. 
Ed Sullivan, well known New York news­paper columnist, was nonUnated to be an honor­ary member of the club. He was presented at tlie meeting with a monogrammed blanket as a token of appreciation for the work he has done on the Army game Retmlon and Rally during the past several years. 
The general membership meeting Is held regularly eacli month on the second Wednes­day, and before each meeting a Placement Forum is carried on under the direction of John Balfe. The conferences last about an Iiour and John reports that they have great successes. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night party will be a dinner at tbe-Park Lane Hotel. Chairman of the air veteran committee in charge Is Paal LUIis. 
Bill Doolcy, niitslstant alumni secretary, met with the club's Board of Governors on March 6 to discuss matters of common Interest to the club and the Alumni Ofiice. 
Philadelphia 
Dr. Edward J. Lyons, '28, Suite 1005, Bruce Medical Bld^., Pres.; .Paul R. Toland, '43, 4G05 Leiper St., Sec. 

Judging from the increasing number at meet­ings recently it looks as though we will soon have to have a larger room at the Phllo­patrian Club. Just back In mufti are: Joe Malqaeen, "Life" marketeer; Bud Dudley, wlio lias tackled the less strenuous life of paint salesman; Cbariie Conley and Jack Neeson, attorneys, I^ank McManns, now with the In­ternal Revenue and Walt Phillip who is hand­ling personnel in the Veterans* Administration. 
The welcome sign is out, too. for I<eo Buri>y, stationed at the Naval Air Station, Bob Dnlfey, Ralph Carabasl. Ray Ookes, Frank Siiapiro and Charlie McKinney. 
The John H. Neeson Memorial Scholarship Fund is being whipped Into- shape by Dan Vonng and, from Dan's past performance, it's bound to be a success. 
It seems as though we always pick a guy named Dan when we want to get things done because Dan Halpin is entrusted with making Universal Notre Dame Night an outstanding event. He has appointed Walt Phillip as Gen­eral Chairman. 
We were glad to have had Bill Dooley with us recently and give us all of the latest cam­pus news. 
Newly elected officers are: Dr. Ed Lyons president; Jack Xeeson, vice-president; Walt Philip, treasurer; Joe 3Iulqueen, assistant-treasurer; Paul Toland, secretarj*. The Board of Governors will consist of: Walt Ridley, Dan Yonnir, Harold Duke, Joe Cattle, Dan Halpin and C:iff Prodchl. Cliff Prodehl 
Rachester, N, Y. 
TMHUOL X. Connelly, ex. '34, 115 Anthony St., Pres.; Robert L. Kehoe, *4S, 37*3 Ifa>-ward Ave., Sec. 

In line with the effort to make the Rochester Club one of the host in the Alumni Associa­tion our group has been active through the months of January and February. 
A business meeting was held In the Rochest­er Club, Jan. IG, and detailed plans for the arousing of greater interest were discussed. It was decided that election of oflicers would be held at a business meeting In September. Con­crete suggestions were made for putting the club on a constitutional basis, with a sustain­ing fund being raised by annual dues. Tenta­tive plans for Universal Notre Dame Night were discussed and it was the popular choice that the. Notre Dame men and their wives get together cither for a banquet or dinner dance on the occasion. 
The most important item of Interest to the local group since the last Issue was the visit paid to us by Father Fkank Goodall, C.S.C., of the University. A special meeting was called for this occasion and Father Goodall gave a fine resume of the functions which will more readily assure success both to local activi­ties and to the University. The beautiful technicolor sound picture of campus life round­ed out the evening. Several prospective stu­
•dents attended this dinner meeting and were greatly Impressed by all they saw. The next day Father Goodall put in several hours at Aquinas Institute where, at noon he showed the Notre Dame film to the Junior class, and In the evening to boys from the public schools and parents of boys Interested In Notre Dame. 
Bob Keh(»c 

Volume 24, No. 2, AprU, 1946 
St, Louis 
I^onis C. Fehlir, '37, 7571 Bacldncluun Dr., C;isyton. Hu.. PTM.; Tnd McNeill, '36. 8S24a RlTerriew, Sec 

On the day of the Notre Dame-St. Louis University basketball game a number of us had lunch with Bill Doolcy, HUKII Bums, Ray Donovan and Billy Hassett, the captain of the team. 
On Peb. 22 a number of the club members attended a luncheon at the University Club given for Father Philip Moore, C.S.C, dean of the Graduate School. It turned into an in­formal discussion of the school's and the St. Louis Club's activities. All of those present 
.thoroughly enjoyed Father Moore's visit and would like to see him often. 
On April 14 the St. Louis Club Is sponsoring one of the series ot discussions for married couples given by the Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J.. editor of "The Queen's "Work." 
The club also was invited to attend the lecture and open forum by the Kev. John A. O'Brien of Notre Dame on March 20. This forum was sponsored by The Loretto Founda­tion at Webster College. 
On March 9 the St. Louis campus club held a candlelight dinner at the Gatesworth Hotel. President Jack Teng^ee and the other club ofn­ccrs report that the affair, attended by about 250, was a liuge success. 
Jack Griffin, *38. has recently returned from service. Jack, who was a Captain in the Signal Corps, has always been one of our most active members and we are especially^ glad to have him back. 
A talk with Bob Hellninr revealed that: Don Gilliland, out of the ser\*ice. has returned to St. Louis; Nori> llunthausen has gone to Mexico, Mo., and into the soft drink manufacturing business; Paal Arnold Is moving from St. Louis to Rolla, Mo., to go into business; Dr. Stephen Richtarsic has reopened an oiTice at 7510 Del­mar after spending several years In tlie army; Ed Buddy is back from tlie Marines and is with the Krey Packing Co.; Paul Coy has moved to California; Martin Hoshes is now with the Dolan Realty Co.; Dr. Bertmnd Conshlin, recently returned to St. Louis from Xew Tork, has opened an oflice in the Metro­politan building. Fred McNeill 
Washington, D. C. 
Arthur J. Bersnnan, 17, 10 Rosemazy St., Chevy Chase, Md., Frcs.; AVilUam C. Carl, *31, 2115 'T " St., N.W., Sec. 

On Feb. 1 a meeting, attended by 60 members, was held at the Carlton Hotel, and FStUher Bernard Ransins, C.S.C., gave an excellent talk on the history of Holy Cross College, of which he Is superior. At a directors' meet­ing a week later Bob CaTanan^h and Steve Miller were appointed to the board of direc­tors. Bob was also appointed general chair­man of the banquet for Universal Notre Dame Night. Father John Cavanaoxh, C.S.C., will be the principal speaker on that occasion, and several prominent government officials will be guests. 
On March 1 a dance was held at the Carl­ton Hotel with Adam Wolf as chairman, and on March 31 the annual Communion-breakfast, was held at Holy Cross College. 
Western Pennsyfvonio 
William H. H. Cinder. Jr., '31, 108 Broad­ivOT Dr., Fittsbarcil 10, B. D. 0, Pns.; Rady CrnkoTic, '34, 820 E Ohio St., Pitt,­banch 13, Sec. 

John Hickey was headline news for several weeks with his "lone wol f investigation of blacic market sugar activities in Western Pennsylvania. Discharged from the Army Air Forces Intelligence service in October, John worked as an attorney in the local OPA office. 
Within a few months he had disclosed Irregu­larities which touched off a sensational in­vestigation by local Federal authorities. The Pittsburgh "Press" praised John .editorially for his efforts. 
Paul McAitlle, who recently opened his law office in the John I,aw Building, was named secretary of the Pittsburgh Steelers, profes­sional football club. 
Unheralded, Coach Frank Leahy arrived in town on Washington's Birthday for an In­formal get-together with club officers. Franic had a reunion ^ with an old teammate, Jim Rosscll. Jim is coach of the Donora High school football team which for the past two seasons has won the Western Pennsylvania Interscholastic League football championship. 
The club extends its deepest sympathies to the family of Capt. Paul A. Mallen, Marine ace killed in an airplane accident near Yoko­hama Peb. 12. 
Paul left Notre Dame In 1942 to enter the Marine Corps. As a member of Major "Pappy" Boylngton's famed Black Sheep Squadron. Paul was credited with seven Jap zeros. He had more than 200 hours of combat flying over Bougainville and New Britain. He had won the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with a star and the Purple Heart for wounds suffered in a fight with a squad of Zeros over Kahlll airdrome. 
Capt. Hugo lacovetli, ex. '34, a veteran of the Buropean and Pacific theaters, has been discharged from the Army. He and his brother-in-law, larry Smith, '33. attended a club meeting held at the Ft. Pitt Hotel March 
8. Tlie guest speaker was Rev. Francis Good­all, C.S.C, director of Alumni Relations at the University. 
Father Goodall exhibited the technicolor film "The University of Notre Dame." Nearly 40 members turned out for the affair. Among those noted were: I-on Apone; Paul Pnclia; Joe (yRonrke; George Jtartinet; Father Vtace Brennan; John Patterson; John, Dick and liaxry O'Toole; Bob Fulton, Joe Hagen, Panl McArd­le, Bemie Conroy, Jim Devlin, John Reardon, Carl Unk, Vince Burke, Ed Kasper, John Briley and Charlie Montgomery. 
Prexy Bill Ginder has been a consistent air­line passenger in the weeks that followed the end of the steel strike. Bill is In the engineering sales department of the Camegie-Illinois Steel Corp. Jolm Pavlick Is a busy man these days with his duties as publicity chairman ot a downtown American Legion post. VInce Bnrke, Just out of the Navy, is back in his law office m the Peoples Building. 
Ed Dean is the president of the newly-formed Notre Dame Club ot Monongahela Valley. Ed's organizational efforts were capably supported by Messrs. Ap<me, Martinet, Pnglia, et al. 
Judge Jim O'Toole, scored a bull's eye recently with his blast against "collusion" divorces. 
Ken Hanlon has been transferred to the Washington, D. C. branch of the Mine Safety Appliance Co. Joe DeMatteo, '39, Is athletic Instructor at Schiller School. 
Jack Monteverde, the realtor, has finally located a home—for himself. Rudy CrnkoTic 
IToungsfown, Ohio 
Charles B. Cnshwa, '31, 1866 Coronado Ave., Pres.; Clarence T. Sheehan, '4», 215 Granada Ave., Sec, 

Plans are under way for our biggest Uni­versal Notre Dame Night in the club's history April 29. The committee is working on the arrangements, and the place and speakers will be announced. 
George Kelly, new president of the Chester­ton Club, lost no time in throwing a pre-Lenten dance which we'll all remember for a long, long time. It was held on Washington's Birth­day. 
Jack Kaae, one ot our past presidents, was down from Cleveland. Chailie Oolnnb Pkal Pleadac. Geo^e Frak^ Bin Daalerr and John and Gabe Mnma were amonc the frolic­ers. , 
The Irowling team, swelled in numbers by the return of Bad ItfinaiJ, nank tUfsMnm and Dunlevy. dnds it as hard as ever to win a match in the Catholic Ijeagne. Gory Wolf, Taauay Kcnigaa, J. Monu and CaAwa car­ried on during the war. 
Congratulations . . . Cy Gairey who married Claudia Evans, sister of Al Svans, In Sharon. 
• . • Bai Daalny and Mary lAulse Davis, married in Phoenix, Ariz. . . . Jtan Brats who has returned to the campus as Rank J^eaihj*B assistant for a spell. 
Mustered out . . . Dr. Jba Bnins, Ed De-Bartolo. Rente Xlym, Dr. Joe KeoBh, Bm Meyer, Joe Taiirksk and Spike Siecel. 
Visitors . . . Feed Mondee, stUi with the Chicago Bears. . . . Brothers Tom and Xee Garwey who are now worldnsf for steel com­panies in the Pittsburgh district. 
Pete Bheehaa 

DEAN SCHOENHERR HONORS) 

One of the nation's Ughest awards, the Distingaished Civflan Service Medal, was conferred on Dr. Karl E. Schoen­herr, dean, of the College of Engineer­ing at Notre Dame, in a private cere­mony on March 25 at Washington, D. C. 
Dr. Schoenherr held the position of chief of the hydromechanics division at the David Taylor Model Basin, the Navy's large shiphoilding laboratory, in Washington, throughont the i>eriod of the war. In this capacity he had charge of the testing and development of new types of ship hulls, propellers and of many new underwater weapons and de­vices of a highly classified nature. 
In the citation ordered by the Sec­retary of the Navy, James Forrestal, it was stated, "He contributed substantially to the successful prosecution of the war and by this outstanding contribution dis­tinguished himself in a manner deserv­ing of the Navy's highest civilian award." The medal was bestowed on Dr. Schoenherr before the entire Naval Laboratory staff, by Rear Admiral Her­bert S. Howard, USN, Director of the Laboratory. 
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS INSTITUTE 
Eight members of Notre Dame's facul­ty are assisting the Toledo Council of Catholic Men in conducting an Indus­trial Relations Institute in that city, five labor and five management sessions are being held, with five joint discussion sessions to follow. 
Participating faculty members are 
Dean James E. McCarthy, Dean Clar­
ence E. Manion, Rev. Edward Keller, 
C.S.C., Rev. Mark Rtzgerald, C.S.C, 
Rev. Bernard McEvoy, C.S.C, Dr. Aaron 
Abell, Prof. C J. Fagan, and Prof. J. 
H. Sheehan. The Institute, which began on March 19, will hold its final session in late May. 
TheNotre Ddmis Alumnus 

» » »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Eleanor Fiynn and Capt. Tliontas J. Flyiui, '35. Miss Marie Badaracco and Albert ICuvjrino, •35. Miss Anne Ivatherine Klaiber and AViltiiuii F. I^aneley. '38. 3Iiss Edith Ingalls and I>r. Paul J. Vigrnos, Jr., Ml. Miss Helen Jo Burkart and TySfft. Charle-j 
M. Butterwurth, ex. '42. Miss Catlierine Huber and Dr. Martin J. FitzPatrick, '42. Miss Elizabetli F. Sliugar and J«»hn J. Cullen, ex. '43. 
Miss Xancy Lee Henderson and John W-O'Brien, ex. '45. 
Marriages 
Miss Vivian Spradlin and Henry L. Spohn, ex. "35, Dallas. Texas, Marcli 22. 
Miss Marj- Marguerite Tatum and Jolin X, Cackley, Jr., '37, Marseilles, France. March 1. Miss Kathleen Sheila O'Connor and Joseph 
E. L«ftuB. '37, "Woodstock, ild. Miss Isabel C. Duby and Francis A. Kroner, 
•3S. Youngstown, O., iiarch 2. 
Miss Alice Larsen and 3Iaj. Robert J. Stan­ford, AAP, ex. '3S, Log^ Chapel, Xotre Dame, January 16. 
Miss Ruth Holl and Jttseph H. Messick, '39. Media, Pa., Jan, 14. Miss Mary Jeanne Thomas and Capt. James 
E. McNomara, e.x. ' 4 0. M t. Clemens. Mich., Feb. 5. Miss Marjorie Payne and T.U Daniel F. Brad­ley, TJSNR. '41, Detroit. Mich.. March 2. Miss Geraldine Sausaman and I^t. R^tbrrt C. Dyke, USXR, '41, Har\-ey, HI.. March 2. 
Miss Jean Larkin and John l*. Maloney, '41, Log Chapel, Notre Dame, Feb, 21. Anthony J. Mallek, '41, was best man-
Miss Bcrnice Alvina Bleidorn and I^t. Docald 
F. Goyette. AAP, '42. Racine, Wis., Feb, 16. 
Miss Jane Eleanor Lyons and Dr. Peter V. Moulder, '42, Chicago, 111., Feb. 9. William Moulder, '41, was best man. 
Miss Marilynn Elizabeth Mercer and I-t. Robert J. Danla>', t7SNR. '43. Bloomfleld Hills, Mich., Dec. 27. 
Miss Catherine Ann Andrescn and GeorKe 
A. Hanins:er, *43, East Orange. X. J., March 2. Miss Marcia Anne Carr and XA. Thomas E. Henney, '43, Harlingen, Texas, Jan. 15­Miss Ann Elizabeth Houston and Robert W. Herrineton, M3. Santa Fe.. X. M.. March 11­MIss Angline Warakomskl. USXR. and TA. John P. WicthofT. TJSXR, '43. Miss Eileen R. Bums and Charles M. Boyn­ton. *44, South Bend. Feb. 9. Miss Mary Eileen Metty ami Gemid J. Welcli, '44. Toledo, O.. Feb. 23. "Miss Madelyn AVolfe and Francis J. Stumpf, 
'44. Richmond, Va. Miss Mildred Claudine Bothman and A^HUiam 
J. Granflrid, *46. Springfleld, Mass.. March 2. Miss Priscilla Joy Thoma and Fns. James 
Raff, TJSNR. '46, South Bend. Feb. 19. Miss Dorothy Ann Arnold and Ens. Chester 
A. SilFB, TJSNR, ex. '46, Fort Thomas, Ky.. March 2. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Ijuirence V. Keefe, *26, an­nounce the birth of Ellen, Jan. 16. Mr. and Mrs. B. K. Winrertcr, '26, announce the birth of Sheila, Sfarch 3. Mr. and Mrs. XVanos J. Kelly, '28, announce the birth of Kevin Patrick, Dec 26. Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Sweeney, '30. an­nounce the birth of Barbara, March 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel G. Sulli^-an, *30, an­nounce tlie birth of Patricia Jane, March 6. Mr. and Mrs. Jerome J. Crowley, '31, an­nounce the birth of a son, Feb. 27. Mr. and :Mrs. James M. Trotter, '32, an­nounce the birth of Peter Francis. Mr. and Mrs. John G. Jaexrer, '33, announce the birth of Kayleen Corrigan. Feb. IS. Mr, and Mrs. Arthur L. <7onrad, '35, an­nounce the birth of Charles Joseph, Feb. 2. Mr. and ^hlrs. "'illiaia J* Dorcy, '36, an­nounce the birth of Anne Louise, Feb. 25. Dr. and Mrs. Wilium J. McCraley, '36, an­nounce tlie birth of a son. Feb. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pleroni, '36, an­nounce the birth of twin daughters. Gina and Gemma, Dec. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul T. No%vak, '3S, announce the birth of a son, March 12. Mr. and Mrs. Francis X. Tulb*, '39, announce the birth of a daughter, Jan. 15. Mr. and Mrs. Thiimas P. Ford, '40, announce the birth of Howard Michael. Jan. 11. Mr. and ^irs. Doiuild J. Sackley, *40, an­nounce the birth of Stephen King. Jan. 24. 
Deaths 
BUIXETIX 

As this page of the "Alumnus" was being made up for the press, the editors were In­formed of the following deaths: Frank P. Burke. '03, iIiU\*aukee, father of John J. Burke, '35, and brother of the late Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C.S.C., '04; Frederick J. Kasper, '04, Chicago; B. Vincent Pater, *22, Hamilton. O. Fuller obituaries will be available for the next "Alumnus" in June. 
The February "Alumnus" carried a brief notice regarding the death, on Feb. 2, of Brother Canute, C.S.C, one of Notre Dame's 
best known and best loved personages. An ap­preciation of Brother was admirably given to the campus in the "Religious Bulletin" of Feb. 5. It follows: 
"Death came suddenly to Brother Canute. He was in Washington hall at the movie Saturday afternoon. God called him quietly during the course of the show. When the lights were turned on after tlie performance, it was discovered what had happened. 
"The news of the tragedy travelled, rapid­ly. Three laymen, old 
Brother Canute friends of Brother, hur­

ried to the hall to see if they could help. They knelt in prayer while the rosary was recited. Their first remark to the religious on watch was Brother Canute was an institution at Notre D.ime-' When old grads hear of his death, they will voice the same opinion. Brother came to Holy Cross in 1S91. He was liere for 55 years. 
"Brother Canute never lived on the campus proper. He always lodged in one of the houses of the community around St. Joseph's lake. But he visited the campus often. You will remember htm by his shuffle brought on by lameness in one leg that became pronounced by repeated fractures. Brother loved a little 'chew.*; that accounts for the perpetual motion of his jaws which you must have noticed. If you were at the local basketball game last Thursday night you would have seen Brother in his 'reserved' seat. He was always there for the'games. and he took the same spot, just off the main aisle as you enter, on the first tier of the west bleachers. 
"Brother Canute knew Rockne when *Rock' was a student on the campus. Former Coach Elmer Layden was a very special friend. A great affection sprang up between him and Marchy Schwartz, Notre Dame's famous Ali-American in the '30s. A few years ago, when Marchy brought his Stanford team for a home game. Brother sat on the players bench with Marchy and liis team. 
"What gave Brother a place in your heart was his rich sense of humor. He had a way of making you love even the stories about his pet doves. And if he happened by your oflico as he cruised about the campus on some errand, the sound of his approaching shufllc always made you feel like stopping in your work to refresh yourself by exchanging a few remarks with him ?s he sat down to get a second-wind. The angels and saints are going to enjoy having him around, 
"How wrong you would be to think that Brother spent little time at work. He made the rounds of the campus only on his off-hours.. For fifty-flve years he was in the service of his community. There are hundreds of priests, brothers and old students who will always remember him with gratitude as. the kind infirmarian. He was a nurse, without a diploma. Our Lord will be obiged to reward him richly for the times he stayed up nights tending the sick and the dying. Old students recall him with gladness for his frequent visits to their sick room to look after their wants and to inject a little cheerfulness. Tou have heard of saints who longed to take care of difficult cases. Well, Brother Canute had the same spirit. He bathed many running sores and bound up many open wounds and washed cancerous bodies. You came to sec his true worth when he worked about the sickbed. 
"Brother Canute must be In Heaven. Be­cause he possessed the key that opens the Heavenly Gates, He had about him the sim­plicity of a child, and that is the condition on which Christ rewards tlie soul: 'Unless you become like little children, you cannot enter the kingdom of Heaven,' 
"Brother Canute was a walking sermon on loyalty to friends, humility and devotion to duty. It's your obligation to carry on where he left- off. And another thing, be ready to die at any moment." 
Hllliam J. McCarthy, 'S3, one of the old^t graduates of the University, died a short while ago in the home of his sister in Norwood. 
O. Mr. McCarthy, who had been In poor health for se\'eral years, is survived by his sister, four nephews and two nieces. For many years he was an employe of the Western & Southern Life Insurance Co., ClnclnnatL 
The "Alumnus" has received fuller informa­tion on the death of John J. Dempsey, '95, Tacoma. Wash,, which was reported In the February Issue. . 
Mr. Dempsey was a football player at Notre Dame, winning his monogram In 1894-95. Graduated in civil engineering, he later attend­ed Cornell University, where he also played football, and he subsequently worked for the government on the preliminary sur\'ey of the Panama Canal. In 1906, Mr. Dempsey, his father and three brothers founded the Dempsey Lumber Company In Tacoma. Upon retirement In 1934, he was president of the company. 
3Ir. Dempsey died on Nov. 13, 1945 In Tacoma, Wash,, In the house in which he had lived for 32 years. He Is survived by his wife, two sons, John J., Jr., '36, and Danaher M., ex. '39, three sisters and one brother, Neal E. Dempsey, '9!J-'02, 
Arthur W. Crawford, a minim in lSSS-94, died in Chicago on March 11. Mr. Crawford, a veteran newspaperman, recently - retired as vice-president and general manager of the Chicago Tribune-New York Daily Newfe syndi­cate. He became ill several weeks ago In' Chicago while en route from his home in New York to the west coast. 
Mr. Crawford is survived by his wife, a 
daughter, a son, granddaughter, sister and 
brother. 
Charles P. Kahler, '04. met his death in 
Santa Ana. Calif., in February, from injuries 
received In an automobile accident. He was 
chief electrical engineer of the Union Pacific 
System having charge of all electrical and 
power plant work for the railroad, with head­
quarters in Omaha. Nebr. 
Mr. Kahler was noted for research in electri­
fying steamlines and steam-electrical and 
hydro-electrical power plants. He achieved 
distinction a few decades ago for the results 
of the hydro-electric reconnaissance and river 
surveys he made in the Far West, chiefly 
around Boulder Dam. He also investigated 
and helped direct several important irrigation 
projects in that area. 
Kev. Thomas O. Hacuire, '09. pastor of St. 
Mary's Church, Tampico, 111., and brother of 
Rev. Joseph A. llaguire, C.S.C, '96, of Notre 
Dame, died on March IS after a brief illness. 
Father Maguire was burled in Tampico on Marcli 22 following a solemn high Mass of requiem celebrated by Most Rev. .Tohu J. Boylan, bishop of Rockford. Father Joseph Maguire was archpriest of the Mass and con­ducted the services at the grave. Represent­ing the Holy Cross Congregation at the funeral were Rev. Timothy Murphy, Rev. Matthew Schumacher, Brother Herbert and Brother Edgar. 
Ordained in Chicago in 1913. following his theological studies at St. Clary's Seminary, Baltimore, Father Alaguire served in Barring-ton, Rockford, Polo and South Beloit. nil In Zllinois, before assuming his final post in Tam­pico. He Is survived by his brother and one sister. 
Gifted in breaking down prejudice and pos­sessed of boundless sympathy nnd '^harity. Father Maquire was widely admired In his community and through northern Illinois. His funeral, so largely attended by rathollc and non-Catholic, was the final tribute to a man who was "enshrined in the hearts of those with whom he came In contact.'* 
Francis X. fliuieran. South Bend, a Notre Dame student in 1908-16, died on Oct. 9. Frank succumbed to a heart attack while at his work in the Heat Power Laboratory at the University. He is survived by his wife, five sons, two daughters, one grandson, his mother, four brothers and two sisters. 
Four of Frank's sons served in the armed forces during the war. Two are Notre Dame men: Lt. Comdr. Patrick J. Finneran, ex. '41, of the Navy, and Capt. Thomas C. Finneran, ex. '42, of the Army. One of his daughters is Sister M. Francina of the Sisters of St. Joseph, Johnstown, Pa. 
£dward 1>. DeCoarcey, '21, Chicago, died on Feb. 14, after an illness of six months. Ed held a position with the Sherman Hotel, Chi­cago, when he became ill, and had been con­nected with the food business in Chicago during most of the years since he left Notre Dame. He is survived by two sisters and a brother, all of Rochelle, 111., where he was' buried. 
Ward T. '"Doc" Comiell, '25, a member of the Four Horsemen football team, died in Chicago on Feb. 7. Doc attended both the Notre Dame prep school and the University and won three monograms In football. He is survived by his wife, son, two step-daughters and four brothers, one of them Daniel R., '25. 
The Alumni OlTlce has been notified of the death of Acnes M. Mnloney, Cleveland, O., who received her A.B. degree in 1928. 
Creorxe B> Pope, '30, died on March S in Bunkle, La., where he was president and man­nger of the Bunkie Coca-Cola Bottling Co. 
He is sur\*ived by his wife, two daughters, his mother and three sisters. George's father was the late Clarence J. Pope who was a student at the University in the early nineties. 
Charles T. Baxter, '33, Albert Lea, Minn., Is dead according to a recent notification from the Albert I^a post ofilce. 
Fnuicis M. Tlnley, ex. '47, Charleston, TV. "Va., died on Oct. 7., just one week after his discharge from the Navy. He was at Notre Dame for a few months in 1943, previous to entering the Navy, 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to the family of the late Mrs. Elizabeth Cleary, mother of the late Edward P. Cleary, '09; to JA. Comdr. Callix Miller, '21, on the death of his mother; to Joseph E, Morrissey* '28, on the death of his brother; to John J., '22. and Robert W., '39. Hnether, on the death of their father; to John S. Gleason, '36, on the death of his father: to Karl G. Kinff, Jr., '37, on the death of his father; to Robert H., '38, Fanl W., '40, and Richard J., '44, Hackman, on the death of their father; to Robert J. IjonKhery, *40, on the death of his mother; to John Ii. Redmond, '43, on the death of his mother, and to Joseph 
F. Gall, '44, on the death of his father. 
PERSOHAIS 
101A ^^^'' ^iicii^^^^^ ^ ^lORiARxr, St. I 7 III Catherine's Church, 3443 E. 93 St., Cleve:and 4. O. 
Prom Father 3nke Moriarty: Bill Schmitt came to Cleveland for the national Metal Association convention. He spent a quiet evening at St. Catherine's and we called Red SDller at "Wilmington. Miller wa^ grape-fruiting In Florida. "We called Steve Herr In Chatsworth, 111., and Steve was not available. Then we called I^eroy Keach In Indianapolis. Keach was captain of one of Bill Schmitt's well known track teams. 
Fhink I.eahy was here for a Cleveland Club affair and made a great impression. 
i ' • ^ wotKl Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Ray Kelly writes that he has been separated from the service as colonel of anti-aircraft artillerj- after 44 months* service, and that he has returned to his law business in Detroit, where he is special counsel for the National City Lines of Chicago. Ray has announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for the governorship of Michigan. Governor 'Barrs Kelly, '17, will not be a candidate for reelection. 
Joe B37ne has been re-elected vice-chairman of the Port of New York Authority^ He has been a commissioner of the Port Authority for more than 12 years, and this will be his second year as vice-chairman. 
1916 GROVER F. MILLER. 610 Wisconsin Ave., Racine. Wis. 
Grove Miller writes: "The members of the class of 191G have been written to regarding their 30th reunion in June, and indications are that a great many of the boys will be back." 
1 09A ^^^^ ^* WARD, 1013 Black Bld^.. I #* U Los Angeles, Calif. 
From Leo Ward: As usual, the news of the class of '20 Is rather meager although I have seen quite a few of the boys of other classes. Dick Xash, '23, of Chicago, has been spending a few weeks in Holij-^vood, during which time I had occasion to get reports on several of the Chicago crowd. We had dinner one evening with Jim "Bed** Glynn, '26, now stationed In California as co-sales manacer of the Anchor-Hocking Glass Co. 
Timotliy P. Galvio, '16, deputy mupvwttm Inuglkt of th* Knights of Colnmhiu, was Iionor««l at a^ tosti­montal dianor ia HaaiaBOBcly Ind, on Jan. 31. Rer. J. Hagli (Vpon­noll, CS.C.t proudoat of Notro Dame, tho principal apaakar, landad Tim as a "••ritablo lay apostio if ona erar livaclt a clavotad Catholic and starling Amarican who is completaly forgotfal of salf as he gives generously of his time and great talent ta moTements that add to the happiness and well­being of his fellow men.*' 
Snpreme Knight John £• Swift and several other tc^ K. of C lead­ers attended the dinner. Judge John J. Wallace, '27, presided. Charles J. Nau, Jr., ex. '37, grand knight of the Hammond K. of C , was one of the speakers. 
I had lunch with ^ p MadltMi who Is man­ager of the local All-America teazn. He had' made some trips to Chicago where he conferred with the league management and reports hav­ing seen Arch Ward and Xiwaa Barrx* 
The roster of our local Federal law enforce­ment is heavily weighted with Notre Dame names. Joe DeFlnaaco, '40, formerly with the F.B.I., Is now assigned as special investigator for the O.P.A., checking up on a few of the boys who are. as Joe puts It, selling meat from black cows. The F.B.I. here in Los Angeles has on its roster Rex Ellis, *40 and Joe (yXeil, *37. Harvir Focter, *39, was formerly here but he has moved to Indianapolis; 
Ed SlcSbhon reports that his son will be out of the service and he is wondering whether or not he will be able to find a room at Notre Dame. Cliariie Cmaek, formerly of Chicago, now of Hollywood, reports that two of his sons will be out of the service shortly and expect to return to Notre Dame. 
3Iartr Brill and Jim abriooey seem to be up­holding the matter of dispensing bottled spirits. Both of them are working for McKesson & Bobbins. Jim at San Francisco and SCarty in Los Angeles. 
The Navy has found that they can get along without the services of Joho J. "Jadcc^ Cs^ berry, who made us a Sunday morning visit with Mmrchie Schwarts. .Judge is back in his old haunts in Hollywood, peddling publicity for the stars. Spike EafffaUid is also out of the Xavy-
I see Bill Cook quite freauently. I had occasion to call attention to the fact that his picture, along with Hoot Kind's appears in the last issue of the official football rules in a 1912 team picture of Notre Dame. 
Cathbert J. Sooit was recently discharged from the Army after almost four years in the Pacific. He is back practicing law with hia father. 
I received a call from Joe Sattner who ia still issuing licenses to security brokers for the State of California and enforcing the pro­visions of the blue sky law. 
Through my sister I received word that fWher Tom lUkim Is as busy and popular as ever In the diocese of Portland. 
I recently received a visit from Tlrtar Pienrj who is gradually acquiring quite a string of cafes and night clubs. He recently annonnced the opening of a new night spot at Catalina Island, which Island has Just been turned back to the Wrigley Interests by the Maritime Serv­ice. 
Along: with the others who returned from the service ia Dr. Frank Xolan. You may have noticed that the eng^igement of Miss Packer and Frank Nolan was announced. 
In the collegiate ranks the football situiation Is pretty well monopolized by Notre Dame coaches, what with Jim Plielan, ox. '17. coach-Ingr at St. Mary's, Clipper Smith, '29, at San Francisco" University. Moon 3£allins, *3l and ^oe Kaharich at Santa Clara and Xarchie Schwartz at Stanford. I received a visit from Art Farisien who expects to eo into the citrus business and has acquired an orange g-rove. 
Gene Kennedy, formerly of the "Vlctorj-Five." reports that he hopes to get out of the service shortly. Gene Is a captain in the Troop Transport Service and has made many trips In both the European and the Asiatic theaters. He reports on his periodic stops In Chicago where he sees his brother-in-law, Jerry Dixon, Mr. Justice Ro^er KIley, Tom Beacom and others whose names now escape me. 
Mi«*liael D. lUnninr, 'OS, the new postmaster. Is the second Notre Dame man to be a post­master here In the last 20 years. 
The late P. P. O'Brien was the other Notre Dame man who held that post' 
I recently had a letter from the Hrm of Has­senauer, McKeown & Trussell. Apparently JLeo Hassenauer is spreading out, although I have received no word that he expects to take his old associate, Harold Ickes, back into the firm. 
Announcement was made in Februarj* of the resignation of 3Ir. Edward Doran as cliairman of the Third District of Indiana Democrats. Ed had held this post since I93S. and has been active in the party since lie was admitted to the Indiana bar In 1920. 
1921 DAN W. DUFFSr, 1600 Terminal lower, Cleveland. Ohio. 
Dan Daffy, the eminent class secretarj*. sent out word of the fast-approaching silver anni­versary reunion of the class on June 28-29-30. In Just one week he received these responses: 
From Al Abmms, of the A. It. Abrams Co., contractors and designers , 41 Exchange Place-, Atlanta 3 Ga.: 
"I really think It's a very splendid Idea for the 'old fogies' we must be, to get together, for the Lord knows when there will be another opportunity. . , , 
"The 'babies* are big boys now — one is in West Point and the other is 'fighting the battle of Washington* In the Navy. You can surelj' count on me to be In South Bend the week of June 2S." . 
From Judge Joe Sanford, Muskegon. Mich.: 

"I am marking the dates on the calendar and planning not to let anything interfere with my attending." 
From Cy Kasper, Internal Revenue Service, Aberdeen, S. D.: 
"Be assured that nothing would please me more than to be In attendance at this j'ear's Commencement—^and I shall make everj* plan possible In order to be present with the old eanjf. 
"As to other classmates, none of them reside out In this territory. I have attended a Notre Dame football game, either at school or at Evanston, practically every year and that has been about my only occxislon to see Notre Dame fellows.'* 
From Haric Zimmerer, general manager, Kingston Products Corp., Kokomo. Ind.: 
"Please enter my name as one who will be present during those days unless something unforeseen happens between now and then. .. . Am anxiously looking forward to seeing some of the M. E. class at that time-** 
From Jb« Thompson, 1300 I/eader Bldg., Cleveland: 
"The company has me almost continuously on the run and It is impossible for me to make a date that far ahead. However, It is something I would certainly like to attend if possible," 
From I-eo D. Kelley, 2731 So. Sallna St, "Your letter regarding our 25th Reunion was just what I have been hoping^ for a long time. 
"I'll drop Bmndy a line one of these days. Wouldn't you love to see Cleery, Slaine, Tmv­linac and many more of those birds again? Maj'be we had better give Slainc the job of locating Pav—he Is listed among the 'un­claimed.' " 
From Gerry Cleary, Escanaba, Mich.: 

"I sincerely hope that I will be able to attend our class reunion the week-end of June 28. I haven't been back to school for some time and am looking forward to seeing the old Sorin Hall crew. 
"Three of my four boys saw activity In World "War II. John is a lieutenant in the Marine Corps, stationed In Japan. Warren Is still in the Navy and Joe was recently dis­charged from the Army and is now attending medical school. 
"In my leisure moments T assist in our Oflice of Veterans* Affairs In helping the re­turning veterans. Attorney Robert E. I>3nr^ a graduate of Notre Damo, was recently dis­charged from the ser\-ice and Is now a con­sultant in our oflice. 
"I have boon mixed up in the petroleum business for the past 20 years, being anTiliated with the Socony-Vacuum Oil Co." 
From IMlIiam J. Sherrj-, 804 Kennedy Bldg., Tulsa. Okla,: 
"I want to thank you for your letter of Feb. 26 with the roster of the Class of 1921. It certainly brought back many verj- pleasant memories. It was interesting to look over the geographical locations of the fellows in that class. 
"You can count on my being present for the 25th Reunion the latter part of June." 
Dr. Ji>c Uamann was discharged from <ihe Army as captain and has resumed private practice In Cleveland. 
109 9 GERAID ASHE. 19 Dorking Road, ' ' A A Rochester, N. Y. 
From Kid Ashe: Chet IVj-nne who was doing a bit of farming as a relaxation and change from his exacting legal practice, has sold his farm in the Chicago area, and Is now confining all of his efforts to law. 
Last word from £ddie Gottry had him located at the Hotel Capitol, New York City. He frequently sees Father George flscher and Joe Itemey, '21. 
Enunett "Matt" Burke is with his dad In the contracting business In Chicago. The firm is Frank Burke & Son. 
At least once every year, we receive a cord from Joe Duffey, president of Industrial Mana­gement Engineers Inc., 149 Broadway, New York City. 
We frequently wonder how Rafael **Dake*' Gonzales of Manila came through the war days in the Far East. If the "Duke" should happen to read this, we would delight in having direct word from him. 
Start planning now for that vacation trip to Notre Dame In 1947 for our 25th anniversary reunion. Even Jimmy Jones expects to be there with his green flannel shirt and corduroys which served him so well from 1918 to 1922 at Notre Dame. Unless International relations are more settled and pleasant by that time, we will not permit Jimmy to make any speeches. 
Kev. Thomas D. Richards, C.S.C., a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band since 1926, is now In Austin, Texas, as assistant pastor of Holy Cross Church. 
In Februarj- It was announced that Dr. Eddie Anderson had been given a new five-year con­tract as the University of Iowa's head football coach. Eddie was In the service during the 
The Notre* Dcane Alumnus 

football seasons of 1943 and 1944. He returned to the University when the Hawkeyes had completed half of last season's grid campaign. 
Dr. (Qndr.) John Reiuden^ on terminal leave from the Navy after 40 months of active duty, expected to resume private practice in New York In February. 
 F. HATES, 393 - 7th Ave., Boom 1924 J. ISISi » w York City. 
Attorney John P. McGoortrt 'r.. Is president in" Chicago of the Serra Club, luncheon ^oup composed of Catholics. 
 P. HURLEIT, S085 Brookdale 

1925 JOHN 
Rd., Toledo. O. 

Bay DeConrcey and his bride visited the campus In Februarj-. Ray was discharged from the Seabees last summer and is now an account­ant with the California Packing Company, with offices in Rochelle, 111. 
Ray Cniminffham is on inactive Navy duty as lieutenant commander, and Is vice-president and general manager of the Moffet Studio In Detroit. 
In February Mllford Walz, South Bend, St. Joseph County prosecuting attorney, was the principal speaker at a banquet sponsored by the Notre Dame Law Club honoring the gradu­ating seniors of the law school. 
It was announced in February that Rip Miller would remain at the Naval Academy as line coach under head coach Capt. Thomas J. Ham­ilton, newly appointed. Adam Walsh Is to re­main as head coach of the Los Angeles (Cleve­land) Rams. His brother, Ctiili, business man­ager of the world pro champions, announced that Adam's contract still has four years to run. 
Elmer lAyden, for nearly 30 years asso­ciated with football, a gent who had risen to the top In both amateur and professional ranks, has accepted a position as president of the Shippers Car Line Corp., New York. As you've read,- Elmer resigned recently as presi­dent of the National Football League after five years' service there, then refused an offer from the league to remain In an advisory capacity for a year, at $20,000. 
m OOA VICTOR F. T.FMTWKB, Box 661, Iron­
• ' A O wtiod, Mich. 
We are happy to be able to report that Clem Crowe, Iowa City, la., is well on his way to recovery from Injuries suffered in an auto accident In February- Clem, with four of his own children and two others, was on his way from South Bend to Chicago to attend the Notre Dame-De Paul basketball game when his car was struck broadside by a car emerging from an intersection. Clem had several broken ribs and one of his daughters was severely cut about the face. 
John O'DonncU, MaysvIUe, Ky., was dis­charged from the Navy last October and Is back taking care of the Maysville "Ledger." 
Frank Bol^r Is still in accounting for the Fisher Bo-ly Corp. 'n Detroit, where the man­aging editor chntted with htm on Ha'-eh 1. F.ank reported that Howud WdmcCBldrk !• in the same organization In Detroit and la also in BccoimtlaK: 
Here and there with Dooley: 

In Milwaukee I saw ]>w Ck>dy and hta wife, for the first time in many years. The annual dinner-meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago produced, amon? others. Andy Conlin, J«hn <SrilBn, Jim Kellerhan and Oapt. John Byan. in Detroit I had lunch with Msd Knans and, at the Detrolt-N, D. basketball game, caught a glimpse of Ed Crowe. 
I spent an evening In Cleveland with Denny O'Neill and his wife, and a day later In New­ark,, N. J., had a '26 reunion with Jerry Hayes, Eddie Deccan. Tom Famll. Wink XVingcrter and Dan 0*NeUI. In New York City I dropped in on I^ V. Keefe to buy a cup and found the Lily Tulip man all smiling about his third offspring, recently born. 
Volume 24. No. 2, April, 1946 
Seen at.church In South Bend: Fred Clements, • now* a South Bend resident. And Frank I>eUle^ also a South Bend resident. Is spotted here and there. A recent notification says that FRUl Fleming is back in Toungstown, O. 
For Word of Don Halpin and Tonj- Boxas. see the special story In this Issue on the activities of the Notre Dame Club of Manila. 
Father Bemie ConchUn is director of student activities for St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn., and serves In addition as chairman of the athletic board and Instructor in drawing. 
1 00 7 JIOSEPH H. BOLAND. Radio Station 
mwAi WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
Mike Buffecy was released from the Army as captain last summer, and Is in the investment and real estate business in Indianapolis. Fete Abel, is sales manager of the Stlckel Steam Specialties Corp. in Hudson Falls, X. Y. Charlie O'XeiU is executive secretary of the arch­diocesan St. Vincent de Paul Society, with oflices in Milwaukee. 
Rev. James J. Mornn, Cleveland, is on termi­nal leave from the Army as a major and expects to be discharged in April. Father Moran served with the 2-lth and 31st Divisions in the Pacific and was awarded the Silver Star for heroism In evacuating the wounded on Leyte. 
Dr. (3IaJ.ir) Ed Mayer, expected to resume his private practice In Joliet, III., in March after being discharged. Ed entered the Army in 1944 and has served both in Europe and in the Philippines. 
I Q^ O I^UIS F. BUCKIXY. 617 Uncolnway 
• '^ O West, Mishawaka, Ind. 
From l»aul Brust: Away back In October our I^ou Buckley re­quested class notes for the *2S column and set the deadline as March 15. That day Is almost here! It's hoped that this return, like the tax form, will list all the' known dependents. From my little corner at the edge of Milwaukee I get to see only local classmates, although occa­sional notes tell about the distant fellows, particularly the architects who formerly trip-• ped up the five flights of the Main Building to the architects' haven.. 
"We can report '2Sers are active in the Mil­waukee alumni club. Charles O'Xeill was presi­dent last year and he kept the club alive with Injections of his effervescent personality and high class events. He is executive secretary of the St. Vincent de Paul Society and doing a fine Job there, and as the head of a beau­tiful family. 
Frank Iloldampf is a past ofllcer of the club, and is, as ever, a forceful character. Prank is assistant to the head of a prominent engi­neering firm. He has three children, one of them recently confirmed. William Brown Is one of the directors of our club and a sure­fire supporter of everj- lofty Notre Dame activ­ity. He Is amongst the upper crust of AlUs-Chalniers Co. legal talent and the boss of a very happy family. 
Don 3lGNalIy gets his name In the local press almost daily because of efforts to promote Mil­waukee on behalf of the Association of Com­merce. He's so busy that even the mayor hates to interrupt him. Jean I A Bimle is the 'works' behind Fitzgerald Letter Ser\*Icc. The local boys have been aided plenty by his speedy service in a pinch. They tell me he Is a very good bowler. It occurs to me that I haven't seen Bob Beck since our local group had Its last steak party. The last time I saw Bob Liitz, the gentleman attorney, he held four aces against my four kings. At the recent Nore Dame-Marquette basketball classic I saw—besides the eversmiling Bill Doo!ey him­self—Hilmar Benery, *29, who looked cxictly as he did the last time he attended a local affair away back in 1920. So ends the local chit-chat. 
The 1928 architects sent a few breezy letters of special Notre Dame interest. Mamie In-mam wrote at length from" Citizens Building, Louisville, over the title "Architect and Engi­
neer." Father Steincr please note. Maurle is a busy member of the American Institute of Architects, past president of the Association of Kentucky Architects and is now president of the State Board of Examiners. His Maurle. Jr.. is being groomed to enter Notre Dame exactly 25 years from the time daddy en­rolled. "We'll all hoist one together at that record. Maurie has seen the "Washington, D. 
C. meml)er of the class, Bemie I<o»*hlMHish, on 
. several occasions. "We can guess Bemie takes business trips during Derby time. Maurle also reported John ManviHkl was doing well as a practicing architect In Nashville until he joined the Air Forces. 
Bob Knox sent a cheerful letter from Benton Harbor where he's practicing in a spic and span ofllce He is another member of the American Institute of Architects. Bob has ' been out of the Navy since last July and has been busy ever since. He reports two daugh­ters as the more active members In his Lake Michigan home. He has not heard of Jack Sonnlialter since three years ago when he was doing illustrating work In New Jersey. 
Ralph Clemmons is reported working for the State Architect at Lansing. ^lich. Sam Dnba is still around Libertyville, 111., and still with Farm Security Administration, no doubt. Bob Knox verified the news I heard from my father (who was visiting Springfield, 111.) to the effect that Zeke AVorthington, '27. is busy practicing architecture and active In the A.I.A. "With Zeke are our classmates Ed Bsthke, out of the Na\'y last fall, and John O'Neill, who was formerly in "Washington and Norfolk. 
Roy Worden also wrote a newsy letter. He Is a South Bend member of the Institute and practices at 312 "W. Colfax Ave. Roy has a six-year old boy and a four-month old girl. He is modest about his work, but does state he Is very busy with a varied practice after having been many places during the war on several large Army projects. 
Both Roy and Joe Lanber, another South Bender, reported seeing Al Schnnrr as our Al was commuting from Sandusky to Chicago. It seems Al knows the ropes on where to stop. Incidentally he owes me a letter since 1932. Joe I^anber writes voluminously on special occasions—such hs when Chrlstlne-Anne was born last fall. Joe reported Claude Hominr, 
•29. in fine fettle. Claude is still In Akron. Talking about '29ers. I heard Fete Bryselibont is doing well in Bay City. Mich., and that Dick Zimmerly has been very active as past president of Indiana Architects. 
Arnold Tltoma usually gave his current history on his Christmas cards, but somehow his message was missed "these last two years. He had been all over the country but seemed to enjoy Florida most. Dave Smith Is listed amongst the American Institute members from Chicago. I wrote him but could get no answer. It seems as though Chicago Is also the home of unreported classmates Leo Fettir and Fat • Varraveto. 
Jack Canizaro, A.I.A., wrote from Jackson. Miss., under the title '"Architect and Engineer." Father Steiner sure was a wonder In develop­ing engineers. Last time I saw Jack telling stories was In "Washington in 1934. He's the same Jack. His letter is interesting and in­dicates that he spends much time handling a herd of bulls. "Architecture is now my hobby,*' writes Jack. Bully Boy. 
Thus we come to the end of the road with a nickel's worth about myself. After gradu­ation I worked and spent my earnings on travel. Spent a year In the Federal Architects office in ^Vashington in 1934 and then some time with F.H.A. in Milwaukee. Worked for my Dad. and now after a couple of years with the Army Engineers In Milwaukee, we are back again, and Joined with brother John* who graduated In 1932. "We report, like most architects, that business is brisk. A hcusa In the suburbs, with a boy and a girl pro­viding the entertainment 'for Mary and my­self, ends this historj-. 
It is pleasant to report that our sprightly Frof. Francis Kervick comes in occasionally and keeps alive memories of classmates. It Is hoped we'll all have a grand reunion in the near future at Notre Dame. 
From Bob Gnlat: lion Backlcy is reported on his way home from his sojourn at Biarritz. France, where he has been teaching economics In the Army University Study Center. BUI Dooley, of the "Alumnus" staff. Is going to.be mighty glad to have him back so that he won't have to wring his hands every month when these guest editors fail to meet the deadline with their contributions. It really didn't seem right that the "Alumnus" and the Bureau of In­ternal Revenue should fix their deadlines on the same day. The tax collector said he juftt couldn't wait. I hope Bill Dooley won't mind. 
The Notre Dame Club here in the nation's capitol is as active as any to be found. "When any of you find it necessary to come to "Wash­ington to deal with Uncle Sam, It would* be worth your while to check on. the possibility of a meeting of some kind or another golnp on because it would provide a great opportun­ity of seeing some familiar faces. 
Our annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night will be on April 29 In the Carl­ton Hotel. Co-chairmen for the affair are Jodse Ambrose CVConnell, Artlinr J. (Dotcta) Berpnan, and Boitert W. CaTaaonch. A stag dinner Is being planned at which Fsther Joha Cavanaach, vice president of the University, will be the chief speaker. Already promises of attendance have come from Secretary of tht: Treasury Fred "Vinson; Attorney General Tom Clark; Postmaster General Robert Hannegan; Senators Capehart and "Willis of Indiana: Re­conversion Director John "W. Snyder; Leslie BIfllle, Secretary of Senate; General Omar Brad­ley, Veterans' Administration; J. Edgar Hoover, Department of Justice: Fleet Admiral Chester 
A. Nimitz; John Russell Young. President of the Board of District Commissioners; and a number of other prominent guests. If there are any who plan to be In "Washington at that time and want to attend, inquiries should be addressed to Baymond E. Deely, 3S11 Ne­wark Street, N.W., Zone 16. 
A few weeks ago, the writer journeyed back to Indiana to speak at a Uncoln (repeat Lin­coln) Day Dinner in Angola- Whilei. there he ran Into Harold Perlej, ex. '28, one of South Bend's eaststders with whom we used to team up on the 8* o'clock street-car out along Notre Dame Ave. Harold entered the Army in May, 1942, and served 2S months In the European Theatre. He is the operator of Perley's Liquor Store in Angola, and is by all odds the town's most eligible bachelor. 'He mentioned that he often sees Art Miller, '28. who still lives In Fort "Wayne and has a summer cottage up in the vicinity of Lake James. 
Talked with Bill Jones, '28. !n a last minute effort to get additional news, and as was ex­pected. Bill came through In good fashion. He tells me that Bill Coyne' Is now here in the Office of General Counsel of the General Ac­counting Office, having recently left TVA. Further, that Bill Cronin Is now back in New York after having attended the Conference of the United Nations Organization in London with Trmak Walker, and that Bert Koraen is back from the Army and Is In the Torrens office In Cook County, 111. 
As for Bill Jones himself—he has had a varied experience in this nation's capltol. After many years with the Department of Justice, lie spent some time with the OPA, and Is now attached to the State Department. However, his actual duties make him assistant to Judge Harold M. Stechens of the United States Court of Appeals, D. C, in his capacity as chairman of the joint British-American Patent Inter­change Committee. This joint Anglo-Ameri­can Committee was set up to function during the War in the matter of exchanging patents and technical data between' the two countries. The work is now being folded up and we'll soon hear from Bill in a new field. 
BMiiie I«oshboash, another cast-sider from. South Bend, is still busily engaged here with the nation's housing problems. Bemie is quite an authority after these many years and has' made many appearances before House and Senate Committees. 
Ernie "WUhelm, *28, is an associate professor In the Department of Chemical Engineering' 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

back at school. Kecently had a note from Ernie after many years. The note was most welcome, hut it took an atomic bomb to do it. 
John Hw^jert wrote from Boston: "There are a number of Notre Dame men here in Metro­politan Boston, but as far as any club activi­ties are concerned, they just don't exist. . . . I am fortunate enough however to keep in touch with some Xotre Dame activities for I call on some of the priests at their seminaries at Xortheaston and North Dartmouth. Mass., for we sell candles primarily to churches and religious institutions, and I often get out on the road myself as well as supervise the sales­men of the Boston branch. I have made the acquaintance of IWher Anthony >L Gomes, of the Class of '30. who is now stationed at St. Jolfn the Baptist Clmrcli. in New Bedford. But as far as having any of our own classmates in this immediate vicinity, I do not know of a single one. although I do believe there must be some, and I wish the opportunity of getting together with them could be arranged. If any of the boys would like to get in touch with me at this Boston address I would be ver>' happy, for I would definitely like to renew some of the contacts l enjoyed at Notre Dame. CJohn's address is Will & Baumer Candle Co., Inc., 71 Broad Street, Boston). 
"Art GIrASon, my old roommate at school. is working for B. P. Goodrich of Akron. O., and lives just outside of Akron. Art has four children, two boys and two girls. My wife and I are godparents for his fourth child, and the last time we saw the Gleasons was on tlie occasion of the christening in February of 1940. 
"As for myself, I became a proud fatlier for the first time last 4th of July, and certain­ly get a kick out of little John, I have been with Will & Baumer for the past 11 years and have been stationed here in Boston for the past five, as manager of their New England Branch." 
John VYedcrick was in Washington some time ago. and reports family and business doing well in Muskegon, Mich. 
I sincerely hope that Fanl Bmi^t does a better job than this one and that the rest of the columns will be even more newsy because I look forward to each Issue of the "Alumnus-" The next best bet on news of the fellows from school comes from G«orfe Scheuer's little publi­cation, "Ex-News Times," 
liOu Buckley was released from his teaching duties at the Biarritz American University In France when it ceased operation in March and he returned at once to the U. S. 
Ten^- Donahue, following his discharge in November, became the acting assistant super­intendent of schools in Springfield, Mass. 
GeoiKe Srfieoer, of the "Chicago Sun" an active Journalist since graduation, and a pilot since 1936, is well qualified for his new posi­tion as editor of "Chicago Aviation News," a bi-monthly paper which appeared for the first time in Februarj'. 
Henry H&si^r, for many years a lawyer in Ft. "VVayne, Ind., has gone into partnership there In a firm to be known as Hasley and Eggers. 
Al Gury is back in ci\'vies again and ha^ 

•returned to Peoria Heights, 111., where he is running the Crest Theater. Al was active In the Notre Dame Club of Honolulu, and Is eager to get the Peoria Notre Dame Club going again. 
Georxc P. 3Iurrin Is now associated with the law firm of Morrow, Brelsford, Boyd and Mur­rin in Houston, Texas. 
Jack IVordeii Is head of the Blolog>' Depart* ment at St. Bonaventure college in Clean, N. T., having been at that school since 1933. During tlie war Jack was the director of the war training program in Cattaraugus County. 
1 090 ^^^^^^ JOSEPH p. McMAMAKA, 1314 iwAw ^, Coart Hoase Bd„ Arlington, Ta. 
Ruse Kuelil has returned to his law^ practice in South Bend after four Army years wherein he attained the rank of lieutenant colonel. Russ was assigned as staff judge advocate of the 20tli Armored Division and saw service in the battle for Central Europe. 
llarley 3IcDevitt and John Withey are both out of the service. Harley is back with the "National Geographic" in New Tork, and John 

?Is employed by the "Veterans Administration in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Karl K»5chevn>ki writes that he is recently discharged from the service and that he has taken up. duties as manager of tlic New Orleans olfice of W. R. Grace and Co. 
Dr. Jim Xobin is resuming private practice in Elgin, III., after two and a half years with the Army in India and China. Jim says that he ran across two members of the Holy Cross :Mission Band In India, Fathers I^rrinctoa and Daj-. 
AViUt Donnelly, lately out of the Navy as a lieutenant (jg) has again taken up the practice of law at 60 E. 42nd St., New York City. 
According to a rumor reported by the Chi­cago "Tribune," Bob Foss, director of athletic publicity at the University of Wisconsin, will give up that post this summer to take over the general public relations assignment at the university. 
Gay Ihms has returned to the mainland from Hawaii, where he was serving in civilian status with the army, and is located, still with the Signal Corps, in the Architects Building In Philadelphia. Gay's home address is 613 Foun­tain St., Philadelphia 28. 
IQ^A lULKOLD E. DUKE, 4030 X. Brood ' '^ W St., Philadelphia, Pa, 
Former Ty4 Dave Rielley, Jr., is now a sales­man with the Graham Paper Co. in St. Louis, and Fniiik Euton is discharged and doing sales work in 3Iilwaukee. 
It was announced In February that Ted Two-n«?- will coaOi the line at the University of Florida. 
Frank 31r'»!»ick returned to his home in South Bend after more than two years with tlie foreign financial section of the na\y military government department in Washington. Frank was discharged as a lieutenant and has taken a position of treasurer of the American Trust Co. in South Bend. 
Ed Sweeney completed military training and began work for the United States Bureau of Internal Revenue at Utica, N. Y.. on March 
15. 
Jerrj- Keidy was discharged as captain from the Army in February. As soon as he appeared in Cleveland, the Notre Dame Club there made him chairman of the committee for the Rockne Communion breakfast, which was held on March 31. 
I Q3 1 JOHN P. SAUJa>ERS,^ Fruit & Fro­
• ' ^ ' duee Exchange, Boston 9, Mass. 
From Juek Saunders: 
Many, many thanks for the latest evidence of your co-operation in heli>ing your acting secretary to reduce greatly tlie 'returned, un­claimed,' or 'missing' list. Later on in this copy we, with apologies, again list the missing. 
The new and permanent class secretarj- we spoke about in our letter to you of Feb. 9 will receive from us—with your continuing help, we hope—an accurate and near-complete roster. 
The letters which make up lliis copy are coming in at a rapid pace, and they—I'm certain you'U agree—continue to approach par for inherent interest. So fellows the latest data on. or collection of, 'Operation N. D., 1931.' 
Edward B. Kj-an, 9840 So. Hamilton, Gliicjco. Eddie has compiled a geographically located committee to function on reunion plans. For Cliicago, Jim Doylc, Bert Metzger, Frank Hol­land, M'alt Cahill, Nick Bohlinc and Jim Griffin are the members. Local divisional headqu:trters in Illinois are at Areola, Gibson City and 
Springfield. For Indiana, Bedford, Indianapo­lis and South Bend are the divisional head­quarters cities. Joe iMOtrman, at Marinette is handling Wisconsin area details. Full pnr­ticulars will be forthcoming from Jim Doyle and the committee. 
Daniel D. Halpin, SlO.Wanrich Road. Ifad­donlleld, N. J. 
Dan, as the eastern regional reunion chair­man, advises that he has letters to his con­stituency in the mails. Remembering, as I'm sure you do, the fine spot the "Alumnus" editorial staff gave tlie "Fifteenth Reunion Divisional Chairmen" announcement on page 24 of the Februarj- issue, you'll be righter than right If you surmise that the 257 voting members In Dan's group really have strong representation at the June 2S convocation. 
Bertram 1.. Metxgrer, 674 West Irving- Park. Chieajm. 
Bert Is still busy managing one of the large sales branches of the Bowman Dairj' Company in Chicago. He has three clilldren. eldest of whom is Bert Jr., 12 and redheaded. Jim Doyle has kindly consented to carry on In Bert's place with the handling of fifteenth re­union arrangements In the Chicago area. Jim can be reached at 600 S. Oak Park Ave., Oak Park. III. 
Ber. C. Bourfce Hotsett, Our lady of I^fiurdes Chnrch, 534 X. Wood St., Gibson City. III. 
fVUher Motsett, with plenty of room and a good cook, issues an invitation to visit to any of the fellows who find themselves In his vicinity. He writes that: Ralph Dulton. 511 KImber Court. Danville, III., is out of the Navy and in the Dr. Pepper bottling business In Danville; John Belton Is in a railroad ofiice in Danville and has four fine children; Francis flaimcry, 100 N. Seventh St.. Minneapolis is still in the lumber business In St. Paul, and is both father and mother to his two children while his wife is In a sanltorium. Father Motoett had beard from Gene Vallee. who Is out of the Army and in a government oflice In Chicago. Also in Father Motsett's mail were letters from Chuck Cnm-ley and Ran Shick. Chuck, West Ridge Road. Albion N. Y., says he has his finger in about 10 different busi­nesses, and forwards a picture of himself and his two fine children. Ron, 1100 West Avenue, 

' Medina, N. Y., Is with a nursery company there, and has three children. A classmate from the Holy Cross Seminary at Notre Dame, Flather Bernard Ransingr. C.S.C., is the new superior of the Holy Cross Seminary in AVasli­ington, D. C 
Earl W. Briber, Feop!e*$ Bank Building. Pittsbarch SS. 
Has been unusually cooperative and helpful in writing and following up on non-repliers and Missing Person Bureau activities. He called on Chuck Spinelli at the Nicholas Build­ing in Pittsburgh and, after making him promise to write us a note, invited him to the local Notre Dame Retreat. Tex talked with Dick O'Donnell. No. 3 Josepliine Street, Crafton, Pittsburgh 5, and found that he Is doing promotional work for the local Red Cross. At the retreat Tex spoke to Bill MaBur­rall, (344 S. Aiken Ave., Pittsburgh), who said he planned to be on hand for the reunion. Among the 30 or more men at the retreat were Smokey Coyne, Bill Ginder. John Ilickey. Bill Macarrall and Tex. 
James T. Doyle, 600 S. Oak Park Ave., Oak Park, III. 
With the F. J. Brophy & Co., Municipal Bonds, 231 S. LaSallc St., Chicago, Jim has contacted some of the boys in and from Chi­cago. Hart Downey, 7S10 S. Carpenter St, Chicago, is on the city desk of tlie "Chicago Sun" ami said he would make the reunion if at all possible. Mart had had a visit from Austin Boyle (1724 Sheridan Ave., Whiting, Ind.), the former bard of New Orleans, and late of the Army. Austin Barlow, '31 Law, (6611 Greenwood Ave., Chicago), spent quite a bit of time with the Chrj'sler Corporation, Dodge Plant, In its labor relations department during the war, and is currently engaged In that business with Mike Donemui. John Carle­ton Sallivan, according to his brother Norbert. will soon be about the country again sans naval 

uniform and rank of lieutenant commander. John was stationed at the Sanford, Pla., Naval Station, and expected to be out in March, Jim Rich, the grinning barrister from Chicago, is somewhere in Germany with the Counter­intelligence Corps of the American Occupa­tion Forces. So far no word on his return to the States, but with the recent change in the point system, we should, be seeing him soon. Bob PendercaKt, according to Inst re­ports, was a captain in the Adjutant General's Department and living In Oxford, O. 
Dan Clark, S139 Berkley Place. South Bend, Ind. 
Dan is one of the very best organizers and follow-up aides on 1931 stragglers and cor­respondents it's been this acting secretary's privilege to associate with. He saw Tim Benitz about a year or two ago in South Bend. Tim was in an Army uniform and told Dan that he was living In the East w^hen he entered the service. Norm Ilnrtzer .was on his way Itome from California with, his wife, apparent­ly out of tlie Navy. Norm will be at home at 843 Forest Ave., South Bend. 
Incidentally, wo have come across a clip­ping from tlte Jan. 27 Issue of the South Bend "Tribune" that gives us the details on Diin's new restaurant. Here are a couple of paragraphs: 
"D. A. Clark, president of Clark's Lunch Uooms. Inc., unveiled plans Saturday for the new building and restaurant to replace the Clark establishment at 104-lOU N. Michigan St.. destroyed by flre last September, and said contracts are scheduled for letting within two weeks. Over-all cost has been estimated at $175,000. 
**.\1 though foundations are being placed for a sIx-stor>- structure, the new building will be two stories high with tlie north 22 feet of the first floor being occupied by Bunte's Shoe Salon, whose store at the same location was another victim of the September flre. The new restaurant will have a 44-foot frontage." 
Dr. lAivrcnce H. Boldinger, Dean. Co11ej:e of Science, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Writes that he is much Interested in the prospect of tlie coming reunion and that he would be very glad to renew friendships with the fellows he got to know well In 1931. 
John K. Mclntyre, Sibley 3fachine and Foundr>- Corp., South Bend 33, Ind. 
Got himself out of the category of non-repliers with an enthusiastic note about the reunion. 
lluruld L. Bennett, 305 Johnson Are., Cuya­hoga Falls, O. 
After a gentle reminder from Dan Clark. Hal came through with the news that he had moved from Mishawaka, Ind., to Akron In 1941 and had failed to get any of our bits of correspondence. But he said he would be sure to be on hand for the reunion. 
Frederick A. Reiman, Jr., 42Z S. 14th St., IM Cros«e, Win. 
After graduation, Frod was engaged In vari­ous federal and state relief agencies until 193S when he went to work for the W. A. Roosevelt Co., In LaCrosse. He Is the father of five children, the oldest nine years, the youngest, four months. 
Robert J. Sullivan, Box 801. Tulsa, Oklu. Spike writes that Paul Grant will transfer his residence to Springfield, ill., where his em­ployment with the Central Illinois Public Serv­ice Co., will take him. Spike, himself. Is mov­ing from ilattoon to Tulsa In accordance with tlie wishes of the Carter Oil Co. Both Spike and Paul are determined to attend the re­union this summer. 
Austin I^. Boyle, 1734 Sheridan Ave., ^Thlt­ing-. Ind. 
After three and a half years In the Army Air Forces following 10 years as a newspaper­man In New Orleans, Austie took a Job as guidance director in the public schools of his old home town. He was stationed 20 months in England as a combat intelligence officer with a Libenitor group, and flew several mis­sions. Since his return home he has seen 
Dave TolchinNk}' frequently and has run into 3Iart Downey several times in Chicago. Dave 
lives at 1308 119th St. "Whiting. 
Joseph F. Deeb, V. S. Attorney, Western District uf Michisan, Grand Rapids, BOch. 
' Had a small Informal reunion in his office In February'. Colman O'Shaachnessjr, in the city on business. Charlie Miltner, special assist­ant in Joe's oftice, and Don McDonald and his wife, from Flint, were in, and all Indicated their intention of attending the reunion. George Jackoboice, 327 Front Ave., N.W., Grand Rapids, and Uarrj- 3Ierdzinski, 639 Eleventh St., Grand Rapids, have said they also will attend. 
Jarlath Slatterj-, Dickinson Block, Claremont, 
N. H. Last December was discharged from the 
Navy and returned to Claremont to take up his law practice anew. 
Fred J. Rahnim. Athletic Director and Head Coach. St. Paur»i Hish Athletic .Association, 3609 Park St., JitcksonTille. Fla. 
Received his discharge from the Navy in November after 2 ^. years of service. He Is married and has a boy 2 ^ years old. Freddie says that Ray Neu (G9th and Lorain Sis.) !s still in Jacksonville but that he very seldom sees him. 
Pierre V. Anftremtcier, 3308 Gladstone Ave., Louisville, Kj'. 
Pete was still overseas when our various letters went to him, but his wife Helen was kind enough to write. Pete has been in the Navy for a year and a half, serving In the Paciflc from the Solomons to Japan. At the time Ilelen wrote he was enroute home fronx ^lanlla. Pete was lucky enough to have at­tended a meeting of the Notre Dame group in Honolulu. Pete was expected home in February, at which time the Angermoiers with their seven-year old son were to move back to Louisville. 
Carl Guensslen, P. O. Box 1033, Pueblo, Colo. Has been with the Bureau' of Reclamation for nine years, the past five of which have been spent at Pueblo. He Is assistant project engineer. Investigating and planning primarily the proposed largest known transmountaln division project. It is being designed to im­port water from the Colorado River basin on the western slope of the continental divide to the Arkansas River basin on the eastern slope. The last time Carl saw many of the fellows ho knew at school was In Los Angeles at the Notre Dame-USC game in 1938. 
Nicholas J. Bohlinir. Aldennan, 7th ^Vard, City Council, 331 S. LaSalle St.. ChicaJCo. 
Nick has threatened to call on the Chicago police department for assistance In getting the members of the class rounded up for the reunion. 
r.:eut. Comdr. Nick Lukat.s, USNK, XROTC Unit. OreKon State College, Corvallis, Ore. 
Was preparing to leave the Navy after four years when he wrote in January. He was due to be separated at Great Lakes and planned to spend his terminal leave in the middle west. Nick met quite a few of the Notre Dame naval olficers who were at Princeton for three months while learning to become Military Government men. He repeats that lArry Vejar, Ben .\lexunder, and T^'Orry Moore are to be seen often down HoUywjDod Bvd. way-
John E. AVillinms, 336 Held St., Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
During the war Jack served as director-attorney with the rent division of the OPA In the Ft. Wayne -Decatur Defense Rental Area. He has been married since 1934 and has three fine sons. 
John J. ^Virherrj'. 671 Broad St.. Newark, 
X. J. We're happy to learn that Jack has just announced the opening of his offices for the general practice of law and as a tax con­sultant, following a period of service with the Bureau of Internal Revenue, United States Treasury Department. He has recently re­
turned from active duty as a captain In the USMCR. 
Wilfred B. Maktmg, 1 E. Mth St., Am*t­mtmt 4«3. IndiaMpolis, MmA. 
Is just recently a civilian after three and a half years in the army, 20 months of which were in the European theater. Dutch is asain associated, as field secretary, with the Indiana State Typothetae, an association for the print­ing Industry In Indiana. He Is treasurer of the Notre Dame Club of Indlanairolis. .He reports that FMuik NaU is city clerk in India­napolis. 
Lawrenee M. ZcU, MJ>., Diractor PMk Ommatr Health Deputmcat, P.O. Box Sit, Bartow, Pla. 
Our letter to 'Larry chased him, from West Palm Beach to Charleston, W. Va., to Wilming­ton, N. C, where he was released from the service, and finally caught up with him in Bartow. On his way to and from Canada last fall Larry stopped off in Rutland, Vt.. to see Dr. I^oa E^osito and family. 
Dr. lionls Ksposito, 9 Coart St., Batlaad, Tt. 
Lou was kept extremely busy during the war years teaching at the University of Ver­mont Medical School and operating at the University hospital. He has been married for almost eight years and has two lovely chil­dren, a boy and a girl. Ed MeCIallea, '31. Law, is a native Rutlandcr and lives only two doors from- Lou. He is state's attorney for Rutland County and is a former city alder­man. Lou assures us that he is making plans now for his trip to Notre Dame in June. 
X/S«t. AnthMiy J. RanaaTace, SMMSM^d*, Marseilles Garrisoa Area, POI* S«etk»B, WBS, APO rSZ, c/o PM, New Tork. 
Jerry was 35 miles from Marseilles when he wrote and had few hopes for getting to the States before the summer. He says that when he was attending an Army Administrative school at W. & J. College in 1943 he met an uncle of Dr. Jm y Hayes, *26. Jerry has been overseas nearly three years: in Algeria where he visited the old stamping ground of St. Augustine near Bone; in Tunisia to walk around the arena where Sts. Perpetua and Felicita were imprisoned; in Corsica where he climbed the highest peak on the Island and learned to distinguish briar (pipe) bushes at a glance. He has also visited Rome, and Aries, Nimes and Avignon in Provence, France. 
Firaak Bittoe, Senior Attorney, Bepartneat of JjaboT, 43S7 Post OfBee Baildinr, ClevelaBd 13, O. 
Has talked with Al Grisanti, who has been extremely busy in the Cleveland Council, and **Dolly'' Gaanoa. Frank heard recently that Joe Bonne, of El Paso, celebrated his release from the Navy In December by marrying a young lady from Stockton, Calif. . 
Ueot. Bonald WToole, VSNR, 3M3M, 97tii 
M.G.H. Detachment, APO £35, c/o PX, S«n PVancisco. 
Has been transferred to Seoul, the capital of Korea, where he Is property officer for the Province of Kyunggi. Don says that other Notre Dame men in Korea are I<t. CoL Joha Flynn, '23, JA, Ct^sey, *42. and Dick 0*Donnell, of the Red Cross. 
Colman 0*SliaQchncS!qr, The Stanley Works, New Britain, Ctmn. 
Wrote a fine letter, with several top sugges­tions for the reunion. 
Bernard K. Smith, 36 Garden St., Apartment A-5, Hartfcwd, Conn. 
Returned to civilian life in November after three years in the Army, spent mostly in Aus­tralia, New Guinea, and the Philippines. Bar­ney was married on Dec. 10, and says that he was very fortunate to find a place to live. He has returned to work for the Treasury Depart­ment as a zone deputy collector. Barney sends word of Mny Tarley, now in charge of the Hartford Housing Authority, of Hany Deegaii, just returned from the service to the Hartford National Bank, and of Dick IJKy, stlU with the Travelers Insurance Co. in Brooklyn. 
John Panl Jone<4, 134 Sell St., Johnstown. Pa. Was a new civilian when he heard from us and was doubly busy re-orienting himself to the life. He was just beginning to pick up w^here he left off at the Johnstown office of the USES, and was getting used to wedded life. He was married Nov. 20 to Marie Flick 
at St. Patrick's in Gallitzin. Pa. Once during his three and a half years In the army John had tlie good fortune to have Lt. Joke Muell­nuui, *3G, of Chicago, for an officer. Joe "Galittdn" 3Iaxw^l has just recently joined the wearers of civvies. 
Richard J. I>erick5, Dericks Sheet Metal Worts, 83-R5 ITnion Blvd.. Totown Borough, Pat«rson 2, X. J. 
Ever since leaving Xotre Dame. Dick has been in the sheet metal business. During the war the firm was busy fabricating metal parts for the war effort; now again It Is producing industrial parts. Dick has been married almost ten years and has three stahvart sons. He sees John Blaiida occasionally. John lives at 223 Park Ave., Passaic, X. J. 
Jcrrj' McKecver, Tlie Empire Bnuss C;».. 10301-10311 Berea Rtl., Clereland 2. 
For three years after leaving Xotre Dame Jerry was with the Pittsburgh Crucible Steel Co.. Midland Plant. From 1934 through 1941 he managed and edited a weekly paper, with a job shop business on the side. Jerry re­ports that Huxh Ball is with Cutler-Hammer in Cleveland. 
Mllliam B. Chawg:Of The "Aurora Beacon-XeuV* Aurora, III. 
Bin says that there are no other 'Slers In Aurora, but forwards news of his imniediato circle of ' relatives and friends. His brother, lK>a, '33, left Armour and Co. in August and Is an accounting engineer with the George S, May Co., Industrial Engineers; his brother-in­law. Carl Weber, *35, is with General Mills In Chicago; another brother-in-law. William F. Bernbroek, '35, is treasurer of the Bake Co. In Rock Island. Bill himself is comptroller of the Aurora "Beacon-Xews." Bill Goa^elin, *34, and Carl Esser, '35, have recently been placed on inactive status by the Xavy, 
Capt. James H. Rnrlce, 235 E. 22nd Sf., New Yorfc. 
Jim is back in the States from "Wiesbaden. Germany, after his tour of duty with the Military* Government there. He expects to be launched on a new venture soon and does not know whether or not he will be able to make the reunion. 
Capt. ' J. S. Collipin, C.W.S., Fine Blufl* Arsenal, Ark. 
Has been In the Army since Julj', 1942, stationed at the Pine Bluff Arsenal all the time. For the first two years he operated a chemical plant; for the past year he has been in personnel work, and is now director of personnel. He hopes to be released in ilay, and expects to go back to his old job with the Utility Company at Fort Dodge, la. Jerrj­hears from his old buddy, Charlie Wittman in Erie, Pa., every once in a while. 
Myron Hershfleld, 110 £• Madi^ion St.. Goshen, Ind. 
Myron is one of our most faithful corre­spondents. He was a Reserve Oilicer until 1939, -when, due to physical disability, he was honorably discharged. Myron was nostalgic when he wrote in January, remembering a speech class one gray winter day. Prof F^nk Kelly was holding forth to a class that in­cluded Marty Brill, Art McManman, FVank Carideo, Moon HoIlinH, and Urn Moynihan. 
Ben Oakes, Monagrer, Contract and Charter Soles, TWA, S14 Fairfax Building, Kansas City, Ho. 
"We're very happy to learn of the announce­ment by TWA that Ben has moved up from senior staff assistant to Manager, contract and charter sales. Ben was Instrumental in work­ing out a great many of the details concern­ing the three flights that carried.five of the cardinals on the historic air trip to Rome recently, Ben had the opportunity of bidding Bi^op O'Haiu bon voyage at La Guardia. His home address Is 408 W. 4Cth Terrace, Kansas City. 2­
Jim McQoaid, 6th & Basseron Streets, Tin­cennes, Ind. 
Jim already has received confirmation of his hotel reservations for the reunion. During the war he had the opportunity of meeting only a couple of Xotre Dame men while they were stationed at the near by air field. Lt. John Pett}' and Sft, John McCabe. 
Henry S. Kopek, llHilte £as:le I^anndry Inc., S925 X:«-aIine Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
Heinle has been married for seven years and is the proud father of three prospective Notre Damc-ers. His brother Ed. ex. '36. is president of the Hamtramck Board of Educa­tion. 
Albert Maloney, A. J. Maloney Co., 201 San Jacinto, P.O. Box 735, Austin 4, Texas. "Wrote to ask if definite dates had been set for the reunion. (They're June 28, 29 and 30) 
T.U Cmdr. John C. Sallivan. USNR, U. S. Naval Air Station, Sanford, Fla. 
Sully expected to be out of the Xa\->- and back home in Auburn, X. T.. sometime in March. 
William C SIcCaHhy, Jr., Kan«ias City power & JAfiht Co., Kansas City 10, Mfi-
Bill wrote that he had had sent a check to the Alumni Association In response to the acting secretary's reminder. 
The latest operating statement reflects 51 "no addresses.'* (This figure had been up to 172). Take a second to browse through the following squad and please mail In promptly any helpful data on these "honor enrollees." 
Philip E. Airey, TreA TT. Armstrong, Wil­liam F. Artmaim, Robert I.. Baer, Walter A Barlow, Joseph F. Bortone, CharleR B. Bax­ter, Bnssell, J. Beaaprev James F. Bonrdean. Maurice F. Branigan, CHiarles D. Carr, Anpos­to C. Catanjal. Philip H. DeRonlet, Philip H. DufTy, Robert F. BnfTy, Alraro Ferlim, Oliver 
F. Held, William J. Flahaven, Vincent J. Fletcher, Stclnert GansaOKe, John 31. Gyorrda, Hubert F. lloran, Fdward J. Hosinski, Andrew 
J. Kata, John M. Keefe, 3[orton B. Ke^an, Charles J. Kovacs, Fdward I^ackaff, Freeman 
n. l<ongwell, Harold J. BEagner, - John J. ^laloncy, Cliarles McKeever, George X«. O'Con­nor, John J. O'Connor, Joseph T. O'Bonrice, John J. OrzechotVBki. Carlos Falomino, Michael Fappas, Charles G. Fodlaski, Warner A. Bcis­ing, James I<. Bazer, Albert T. Romanin, Steph­en J. Roth, Edmond W. Sheeran, Wilton J. Sherman, James R. Slattery, Charies A. Smith, Ambrose M. Steepler, Vincent G. Sullivan,, Joseph Tliomton, Eng:ene Tallee. 
FATHER DUPUIS CITED 
Further and more complete in­formation of the award to Father John Dupuis, C.S.C., of the Bronze Star Medal has been received in the Alumni Office. The formal citation reads, in part: "Landing on the afternoon of D-dajr, Lieut. Dupuis .undertook the administra­tion of spiritual aid and comfort to the seriously wounded. .. . He performed these duties with out­standing courage and devotion, frequently under enemy fire and at great risk to his own safety. . . . The magnitude of his task was far above that normally expected of one officer," 
Father Dupuis went ashore on Iwo Jima as shore party chaplain with a Marine Division. 

Your "acting secretary" has in these columns and in his correspondence so frequently spoken of "Mailing Lists," that possibly you might be Interested in a telegraphic sidelight on that data, so we offer—Miscellany on 1931-ers. To­day the mailing list reflects a roster of 513 members. The present addresses of the 513 
The Notre Dcane Alumnus 
result In: 257 being classified as in the Eastern Division; 189, Mid-TVestern Division; and 67. Southwestern Division. The first H states now are: Illinois. 99; Indiana, 68; New York. 64; Ohio. 44; Michigan. 41; Pennsylvania, 26; Cali­fornia. 19; New Jersey, 16; Connecticut, 16; Massachusetts. 16; and. Wisconsin. 11. 
Jim Rudolph was returned to Inactive status as lieutenant by the Navy in March, and "was at home in Long Beach, Calif. 
John W«ib!er changed his Navy lieutenant's uniform for civvies in March. While he was waiting for discharge at Great Lakes. John met lit. Comdr. Joe Kirtty and I.t. Harry Boscher, '30. both on the way back to civilian life. 
1932 I.T. Cmdr. JAMES K. COLI.INS, 1135 3fanchest<T ATC., Norfolk, Ta. 

From Jim Collins: Mi^lor Tommy TomasI writes from Handolph Field, Texas, that he has been discharged from the Army and will return to his dental practice in Bennington, Vt.. soon. He said: 
"I am anxious to get back, as we are re­activating our Bennington baseball team. In the 
' Green Mountain League. I mention this as our club has a Xotre Dame atmosphere—we have rehired Jake Klein to coach. Watching how the Notre Dame boys do It Is a good way to introduce the Notre Dame spirit into my four sons. Incidentally. Bennington is about 35 miles east of Albany, N. T., so If any of the Notre Dame boys are around that area I wish they would drop in. I'm sure Jake and I and the rest will bo glad to see them." 
lionis Jackson has been discharged from the Navy and has returned to his law practice In South Bend. Lou, a lieutenant, has been in the legal office in Norfolk for about a year and a half, and previously was stationed at Great Lakes. 
Bon Ryan is back in the air conditioning business with the Consolidated Conditioning Corp. in Mt. Vernon, N. Y. He is living in Flushing and says he sees Flo McCarthy quite regularly. 
Jaek Jaeccr, *34. announced'the birth of bis first daughter, Feb. IS In New York. Jack was recently released from duty-An the Navy after being a chief warrant olficor in the Amphibi­ous Forces for four years. 
Col. Sal Bontempo was in South Bend in February on an inspection visit of the Army Air Forces depot. Sal is stationed at "Wright Field. O., and was in South Bend to look over the more than 20.000 used airplane engines stored at the local depot. 
Jerry Hnn^r was discharged as a lieutenant In the infantry and Is home in Cincinnati. Barry Kilbnrrer is out of the Navy and again prac­ticing in Lancaster, O. 
Lt. Comdr. Tom O'Malley, now back at his law practice In Aurora, 111., recently was pre­sented with a citation In the name of Admiral Thomas C Kinkaid. Tom was commended for his efforts in devising a system' of recording gun fire of naval vessels. He entered the Navy in 1942 and saw two years of action In the Pacific. 
Bob Watcrson was discharged from the Army as captain In March and has returned to Dowaglac. Mich., to establish a law office. Bob entered the Army In 1942 and served In De­catur, 111., and in the Chicago Ordnance Dis­trict until his discbarge. 
109 9 TIGHE WOOBS, 8016 Clyde Ave. MW9^ ChlcaKo. III. 
Bon Garfity concluded his terminal leave as lieutenant, USNR, on Jan. 15 and Is back with the Canity Company in Chicago. IVank Blartin, now out of the Navy, is a purchasing agent in Newark. Chariie I^ss Is back in Oshkosh. Wis., as a funeral director after a long termi­nal leave as lieutenant commander In the Navy. Chariie Iioatluey Is out of the service and home in Glen Rock, N. J.. 
lit. CI«onre AoTf VSNB, wrote from his base on Guantanamo Bay. Cuba, that although bis present surroundings were veiy pleasant (they include Mrs. Aug and their three sons) he was anxious to get back to Cincinnati. Capt. Hufh Colopy was with the Judge Advocate General's Section of headquarters of the Seventh Army, according to word received from his father in Akron. 
In January Ed Kosky was named office man­ager and assistant to Commissioner Jfaniny Crowley, '25, of the AU-Anierican Football Con­ference, with headquarters In the Empire State Bldg,, N. Y. C. 
lUtty Gorman, discharged from the Navy as lieutenant after 32 months' service, has accept­ed a position with the Chevrolet Motor Di­vision of General Motors, witli offices In Chi­cago. 
Jim Gerend, recently out of the ser\'ice, re­quests orayers for his brother Art, ex. '37, who has recently returned from Korea and was seriously 111 with complications from the flu. 
Dr. John Cary, of ^Milwaukeej announced In Januarj- his return from service with the Army and the opening of his office at 2635 S. Kin­nicklnnlc Ave. 
£d Moriorty is back In Ann Arbor, Mtch., after his discharge from tlie Navj'­
Lt. <^1. Ray Naber, of Louisville, now on terminal leave, was recently awarded the Legion of Merit for his worlc as chief of the Jeffersonville, Ind., Quartermaster Depot's Fiscal Division. 
I Q^A JOSEPH U. ULKNNON, Jr., C'om­' '^* * niercial Solvents Corp., 17 E. 42nd St.» Ni'w York City, 17. 
After nearly five years in the service Eininett Ctinkling: was on terminal leave in Kansas City, Mo., in January. Emmett was a captain in the.Signal Corps. Walt Duproy, on inactive duty as lieutenant commander in the Navy, is a radio operator at the Fenkell Hadio Laboratory in Detroit. 
It was announced in February that Hugh Devore had signed a three-year contract as head football coach at St. Bonaventure college, Olean, X. T. 
John Begley, after his discharge from the Army as captain in Februarj', was slated to become the assistant director of the Chicago Plan for Hospital Care. I<eslie Jandoli is dis­charged from the service and home in Orange, 
N. J. He Is worlcing for the Prudential In­surance Co. 
John 31ullen, out of service, has taken a position with the Sollltt Construction Co. of South Bend, and Is the civil engineer on the construction of a large power plant south of Steubenville, O. 
Steve Bara» writes that he has gone Into business for himself in Hamburg, N. T. 
lO^ C FRANKLVN C IIOCHREITER, 2118 I '^3 ^ Tren*urt: St., New Orleans, La. 
Eugene O'Reilly, out of the Navy, Is man­ager of a hardware and lumber business In Newport. R. I. Bill Burichardt has returned to Akron after a tour with the Navy. Art Conrad finished his terminal leave in March and is secretar>* to a Judge In Chicago. Also back in Chicago, at the Palmer House, is Geoi^e Demetrto after service In the Navy. 
George Melinkovich is coach of footbnll at tlie Bloomfield, N. J.. High school. Johnny Jordan's Mount Carmel High school Ave won its fourth Catholic league senior basketball title in seven years In March and later won the city championship In a game in the Chi­cago Stadium with Tilden Tech.'public scliool champ. 
Ken Whlpps has received his discharge from the Navy as petty officer, first class, and has returned to Auburn, N. X. 
Joe Beck is with the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in Indianapolis after having been dis­charged from the army in November. 
I Q^a JOSEPH I*. MANSFMEUi, NatlomU I'^ O Bruadcastlnc Co., 30 RodEefener Plaxa, Radio Qty, >'crw Toric* N. T. 
From Joe Mansfield: Letters from the class for this month have been few and far between. The bulk of the Information we have to pass along comes from personal contacts made here In New York. 
John Moran, the ex-keeper of the column, dropped in the office a few weeks ago re­splendent in his new civvies. He reports that he is planning on going into a new field of endeavor now tliat his Navy duties are at an end. Prior to the war John was with the Internal Revenue Department in New York City. 
We chatted with Buddy Goldman at some length and learned from him, that he's In the advertising business In Baton Rouge, La., where he is serving as radio director for an up and coming agency. 
Jerry GUIe^tie is still in uniform and Is stationed in New York City as head of the Insurance division at one of the Navy offices. Jerry expects to be out of uniform early In the summer and intends to remain in the in­surance business in association with Jtihn Balfe. 
Dr. John C. Murphy^ currently of the U. S. Navy, manages to drop in once in a while, whenever he makes port in New York. John's latest assignment was that of medical officer on the USS Savannah. Unfortunately, we have lost John's address and if he reads this, we would appreciate hearing from him. 
Jim MocDevitt dropped In the other day to ask our assistance in digging up a script which will be suitable for a presentation at a Notre Dame affair. He reports that Mrs. MacDevitt and family are doing well. Jim holds a re­sponsible position with an accounting firm in New York. 
John Deitmond is out of the service and has returned to Pocket Books, inc. after serving overseas for tliree and one-half years. 
Jim Kirby calls on us occasionally to pass the time of day. Jim, well acquainted with the civil service hereabouts might be helpful to returning Notre Dame men. 
And}- Uufnogel, Is out of uniform and em­ployed by the Veterans Administration. 
We ran into DIcIc Baker and his charming \v ife a few weelcs ago at a party given by mutual friends and spent a pleasant few hours talking about our days at Notre Dame. Dick is now in Boston In a key position with R. H. White & Co. He hinted darkly that he is capable of getting his Iiands on some of those precious nylons if any '36 wives are interested. 
Tlie fact that ten years have gone by since our graduation prompted a line from Jack AVIii­tukcr of Kansas City. He ends with: "I am looking forward witli pleasure to the ten-year reunion." 
These 10 years have raced by and we too are looking forward to getting back to the campus for a gala reunion June 28. 29, and 30­We're sure a large number of the men of "36 feel the same w*ay. We realize that with the reconversion going on at the University re­unions of the pre-war type cannot be arranged. However, this being our tenth anniversary we are interested to know how many men are planning to return for the general reunion that has been announced. If all those class mem­bers will write to us at hon^e- . . 349 Weaver Street. Greenwich. Conn. .. . or to . . .The National Broadcasting Co.. 30 Rockefeller Plaza, Radio City, N. Y., N. Y.. we will set up an informal program which will seek to duplicate the fine reunion arranged by John Moran and his hard w'orking committee back in '41. .We 
• promise to contact personally each man who signifies a desire to attend the ten-year get together. Here's hoping we're deluged with mnil. 
3Iarty Peters has resumed his duties as athletic director and head coach • of football and basketball at St. Benedict's college, Atchison, Kans., after more than two years 
in the Navy. Durinr his tour of Navy duty Marty'was a. coach-player for the Ola the Naval Air Station Clippers, and was a physical edu­cation instructor overseas, where he attained the rank of lieutenant commander. J*e Salli­nta, also dlscharKed as lieutenant commander, was with the Naval 'Air Transport Service-Command. Joe is now assistant station man­ager for United Air Unes at the Detroit City Airport. ' 
Joe WaMr*n was discharged from the Navy as a lieutenant. and is home in Teuton. N. J. nunlltoB CalTCvt» after completing nearly flv» years' service, including a tour In the Euro­pean Theater, was placed on Inactive status. OH chief warrant officer in February. Joe Rstisan is out of the service and was on the-campus in February to register for graduate work in the spring semester. Dr. Joha SiuUTer was discharged from, the Army on Jan. 2& and was home in Drexel Hill, Pa. 
From the Dominican House of Studies in River Forest. HI., comes news of former Notre-Dame men who are studying for the priest­hood at that institution. Rev. Brother Raphael Comeau (James H. Comemi) writes that he. Brother Ignatius (Jolin Beardim, ex. '44) and Brother Richard (Edmund Bntler, ex. *42) all would greatly appreciate any news of Notre-Dame. Brother Raphael expects to be or­dained this coming June. Brother Bertnuid (William T. Mali3ney, *38,) is another Notre Dame man in the same seminary. 
Georse \fdU writes in enthusiastically and with fervent hopes for a big turnout of chem­ical engineers of '36 at the reunion this sum­mer. 
Homer Stridder, staff correspondent for the-New York "Sun." was privileged to represent that paper at the public consistory in Romo In Februar>-. His splendid stories from Borne were quite in keeping with his brilliant career which began at the South Bend "Tribune" while he was a student at Notre Dame. Homer also-covered the war trials In Germany tor the "Sun." 
Frank Gaol stopped off at Notre Dame re­cently on his way to his home in Cleveland after his recent discharge from the Navy in which he had served for four years. Andy Pilney has been appointed backfield coach at Tulane University. 
Ken Stilley, who was one of Hach Berore's­assistants at Notre Dame last season has been named as assistant to Hugh at St. Bonaven­ture's. John J. Bempsey* Jr. is employed as­dlstrlbutlng engineer for the Fuget Sound Power and Light Co. in Tacoma, Wash. 
Fat Malloy, an attorney, has been discharged from the Navy as lieutenant, and Is vice-presi­dent of the Malloy Oil Co., in Tulsa. B » McLaagUitt, Minneapolis attorney, was named, assistant secretary of the Minneapolis Cham­ber of Commerce. Dan has been for five year» a special agent for the FBI. 
«0^^FKAN K J. KEILLY. BUcMair-Bor-I '^ ' land Co, 254 W. Slat St., New Torfc CUy. 
Bill Sharp Jr., has reverted to Inactive status as lieutenant, USNB, and Is a salesman with the container division. International Paper Co., of St. Zjouis. Ed JTaangup Is discharged and is a salesman in Detroit. Br. Art Hoff­mann is a captain in the Army and stationed In Ascunsion. Faragxiay. 
3Iatt Sheley, '37, is city editor and business manager of the Finckneyvllle, Illinois "Demo­crat." 
Bill Myers was discharged in January as master sergeant, and is a teacher in the Main Junior High school in MIshawaka. B«n H«i­ncssey has a full schedule at the Catholic Community High School In Sterling, ill. In addition to teaching. Don is coach of football, basketball, baseball, and track. 
I^eonard B. Krtsleaaki, who is a dentist at 560 S. Broad St., Elizabeth. N. J., has recently legally changed his name to Leonard B. Craig. 
Capt. Fnuik Kopczak, of the AAP, recently visited friends in South Bend, accompanied by his bride. Frank has been in the Army for four years. Glenn Richardson was placed on inactive status as a first lieutenant by the Army in ilarch. and is living at 1012 Lindsey St., South Bend. 
John Cac^lrr was discharged last July In Paris to accept a position with the American consulate In Marseilles- He was commissioned a vice-consul in August and placed In charge of the shipping section. After April 1, John's address will be Ronceverte, AV. Va. 
John Kellj* Jr., was released from active duty as lieutenant In the Field Artillery last Xovember, 
m 09 O HABOUl A. WU^UAMS, 4333 Alar-I '^ D ble Hall Rd.» Baltimore, SCd. 
From Hal Williams: 

It is easj- work and short reading this month —only two letters. 
The first, a breezy letter from that old radio announcer, Jock Solon. After raving about the gentle breezes and commercial possibilities of Southern California, Jack writes. "Remem­ber that old Arkansas raiser of razor-back hogs. Dutttin Zcll (Augustine Bernardino, the terror of the Histolog>' Lab. we used to call him)? "Well, he's a very humble guy and won't say much so I'm going to take this chance to be gossipy. For about three or almost four year.s Dutton was hooked up with Douglas Air­craft in Santa Monica, Long Beach. El Segundo, and all points west, as a head man in the tool design department. I located Dutt through our old third floor Alumni pal, Jint Burgess, who was reclining under a moth-eaten palm leaf in Xew Guinea at the time, polishing his first lieutenant bars and drinking the two ounces of Scotch I smuggled out to him one Christmas. 
'Through copious letter writing I finally got Dutton to visFt me in La. Imagine my sur­prise when he introduced me to his wife. They were married in Elgin, 111., the first part of November, 1945. (Her maiden name was Marlon Cederwall.) After a wedding trip across countrj-, Dut is back looking Into the drug business. Make him write. Hal. He has a typewriter. 
"Sow about Uncle Jim BurK^stS. Glnny and I had a swell letter that arrived in Toledo at Christmas time—it had been written Dec II while Jim "was In Manila. Before that he had been In New Guinea and up and down the Pacific Islands with his staunch crew of anti­aircraft men. Jim has been overseas 22 months, and hopes to be liome by St. Patrick's Day. I saw Jim's grandmother when I was in Toledo and she said that she had seen Tom O'Brien in his bell-bottoms but didn't mention whether or not he was out of them yet. 
"Are they still chasing subs out in the Atlantic? If they're not, then Art Mulhem doesn't have a thing to do, so tell him to write me. I did have a Christmas card from the guy, but. as usual, no home address. I expect that Commodore Mul is out by this time (or don't I know those Harvard lawyers?) and is probably practicing his hog-calling for this year's Palisades Park contest in Jersey. 
"Ton know, fellows' names pop up in my mind every so often and I alwaj's wonder where they're hiding out. What's happened to Pick Foley and Georre Morris, the Detroit wizards of the dance? And Bod Dark (his middle name was Evans), Dan Cocliron, of "Wheeling on the Ohio, Jim Molhem (who passed an Organic exam with a. lousy 985&>, "Rither" Kelley of the Aumni third floor, Petcher the Great, who assisted Eelley at those Sunday A.M- sessions. Where's Little Phil from Elizabeth, X. J. (top­most man on the tumbling teani. erstwhile boxer and wrestler with Jim B.)? And what about ToDunjr Shiels and Hook Kerwin, and all the Modernalres? Is Jtte C:»rc»ran still thrilling all the girls in Massachusetts? Did I hear right—that ^Canton, Ohio Htigli* was a major or a colonel? 
"And please let me have word about Father Eugene Borke. 
*'Also. your column mentioned 'a Gene Smith from Brooklyn.' Is that the same Gene Smith who studied pre-med at Xotre Dame, who was given a plane for graduation, who 'buzzed' ­.\lumni Hall on Graduation Day and dropped an empty Pabst can almost In the rector's window? 
"And Till Deole is an old schoolmate of mine from our Toledo days at St. John's University. I hope you can get in touch with him be­cause I'd like word of his whereabouts. 
"I'm living in (California and am in the drug business. Whitehall Pharmacal Company Is the name, and I am western general manager, tramping the nine western states, and generally enjoying hard work an^ the good life. . . ." 
Thanks, Jack, for a fine letter. I hope that your pleasant reminiscences will bring forth a few letters. Jack's home address. Incidentally, is 435 South Norton Ave., Los .\ngeles, 5, Calif. 
And now an equally fine letter from smiling Johnny Bmdiloek. Johnny, who Is a lieutenant in the Na\-j'. lives at 4407 8th 7t., N.W., WasV ington. Ho writes, "I received a commission in the Navy a few years ago, and left for the high seas. Had quite a bit of fun and ad­venture on an .A.PA (transport-attack) and went from New Guinea through the Philip­pines to Okinawa. Also was up to Japan twice and just about everj-where in the Pacific I am now stationed in Solomons, Md. I expect to be discharged April 1; this, of course, will make me very happy. Then I can go back to the Washington Gas Light Co. to work and to make up for the years I have lost. . . . 
"I am quite a faniily man by now and have three children at this writing. I have a boy age four, and a set of twins, boy and girl, age two. .. . I hope to be squared away sufii­ciently to make the ten-year reunion in 19IS. . . . George 'Senator' Howard has his own insurance business here In D. C. Jimmy Corcoran was interning before I went away and I don't know wliat he is doing now. Steve Miller was here but went into the Navy and I haven't seen him in years. I ran Into Vince Duncan (brother of Walt, '38.) on an LST In the Pacific, but didn't even come close to any other Notre Dame men. 
"I went into training at Fort Schuyler, N. T.. and got there the day after AiHiy Pupi!s w.is graduated, so I missed him. too-I called Lenny SkoKlnnd in Chicago recently while changing trains; he seems to be doing fine. . . . I often wonder what has happened to Joe Thumburjf, Denny Emanuel, Fddie Brennan, and all the guys on the baseball team there. . . . Johnny Baltesi dropped In to see me in 1943; he was an ensign in the Seabees at the lime. I'd like to hear from him." 
Thanks, Johnny, and write again soon. 

Fellows, if we don't get some mail soon the '39 boys win be taking over our space to chronicle their accomplishments. We can't have that, can we? 
And what are your Ideas and plans for the general reunion this summer? 
Charlie Callahan, discharged from the Army after 40 months* ser\'ice, was appointed assistant director of publicity at Notre Dame. Cluirlie Bnke is with the Civil Aeronautics Authority, with offices in Clnclnnati-
Lt. Andy Puplis will return to his pre-war job as coach at Proviso High School In Jilay­wood. HI., following his discharge about April 1­
Prial Curran Is out of the Navy and in Chi­cago, and Chariie Morrow has been returned to inactive status by the Na\*j- and is home in Louisville, Ky. John Montererde was dis­charged from the Army as captain and is a real estate broker in Pittsburgh. 
Tom Gairey, with the Duquesne works of the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp., is winning distinction among steel metallurgists for ex­perimental work on boron as a steel harden­ing element. 
Joe Kalwrieh has been signed as assistant to head coach I/arry (.H*»on) MnlUns at Santa Clara University In California. Capt. John P. Bbhoney was on terminal leave from the Army in March after serving two years in the Euro­pean Theater. 
Dr. AVAlter J. MonaccUi was recently ad­mitted to the bar of Illinois after receiving his J.D., from DePaul University, Chicago. Walt is employed In the patent department of the Industrial Rayon Corp., In Cleveland. 
DfMi Currier Is out of the Marines and back in Detroit, engaged In the lumber and build­ing supplies business. John Head, of Plain­field, Ind., was released from the army In January. OM. John liOOey Is still stationed at Wright Field. Joe Stmad is running for Congress from the 5th Illinois Congressional District. 
1939 VIN'CENT W. DeCOURSEY, 1321 Geursia, Kansas City, Kans. 
Lt. Pete Sandrock, USNR. writes that he Is stationed in Portland, Ore., and expects to remain there until summer. He adds: "I came back on the U.S.S. Telfair, having left Subic Bay, Luzon on Nov. 3. The sliip's doctor, John Bearden, *22, and Bemie Rntled^, ex. '45, were the only other Notre Dame men aboard. . . . Each Sunday either Doc Rearden or Bernie led the Catholic boys In the rosary service." 
Voland 3[artin returned to civilian life and Fond du Lac, Wis., In February. Bill WTiele­han is out of the service and in Rochester, 
N. Y. Ed O'Connor, formerly a specialist with the Coast Guard Public Relations, was dis­charged last fall and Is a radio producer with Station WNAC, In Boston. Jack McAuliffe, out of the service, is taking Law at Sj-racuse and working part time at the Muench Kreuzer Candle Co. 
I>ed Si»k, discharged from the Army In Januarj-, has opened a law office in Las Ani­mas, Colo. Jalins F. Simon is the owner of the Waco Broom and Mop Mfg. Co., In Waco, Texas. Jint Yoonc was discharged from the Army as captain last October and has entered the general insurance business in Houston, Texas. 
lit. Bill Hofer, CS.MCK, was recovering in Great Lakes Naval Hospital at the latest re­port. Bill was shot through the neck by a Japanese sniper on Okinawa. 
Capt. George Bai«tlan, Jr., when last we heard was a doctor with the 50th Field Hospi­tal at APO 802, c/o PM. N. T. Joe Mason, after over three years service and duty in France, Belgium and Germany, Is home in South Bend. He was a first lieutenant In the Army. 
Tom Ziesler has received his discharge as captain from the Army Air Forces. During his Army career, Tom. served on Guam. 
Ban Falsioni, for the past two years a prac­ticing attorney in Lockport. N. T-, has been named police Justice of that city, his term to run until Dec. 31 of this year. Earl Bromi has been signed as head coach of football and basketball at Canisius College, Buffalo, N. Y. 
RoIUe Shetk, of South Bend, hjis been dis­charged by the Army as a captain. AI Kiefer, discharged from the Na\-y last November, was married the same month to Miss Margaret Marj- Barthle, also of San Antonio. Fla. 
IJOU Badcley, former professor at Notre Dame, reports that on Jan. 9 he met Capt. I^orry Sattoa in Weisbaden, Germany. Larr>* attend­ed a lecture ^''hlch Louie gave that night for the local AAF people. According to the Buck­ley scouting report, Larry plans to continue his education at one of the European univer­sities. 
John H. Wilson is In business in Concepcion, Chile. His address In that city is Casllla 
107. Fanl Tnliy has been discharged and is a publisher In New York City­
Volume 24, No. 2, AprU, 1946 
IY1 U jf. Maryland Ave., Milmokce, W». 
According to an Army Public Relations re­lease in February. Capt. Heiur Dowd, Chief of Water Transportation for the U. S. Army In India-Burma, had been promoted to major. Before shipping overseas. Hank was assigned to the New York Port of Embarkation. 
Lt. Comdr. Bob Bcaudine was stationed at the Naval Air Station, San Juan, P. R., and 
- Capt. Joe (Tarlucci was a dentist at Tilton General Hospital. Fort Dix. N. J. Pfc. Paul Flood was transferred to Seymour Johnson Field. GoUlsboro, N. C." 
John Pillun is out of the service and was through here in February. Don Sockley is also out of the service. 
Bob Rodibaafh, South Bend, was released from active duty as captain -with the Army. Bemie Cashing Is home in South Bend on terminal leave aa first lieutenant. BemIe was in ordnance supply work in the Pacific and at the New York Port of Embarkation. 
Copt. Don Foskett wrote in January from Okinawa that he was expcctlns to be return­ing to these United States soon. After reading his harrowing account of the pugnacity and physical development of the rats there we are awaiting anxiously the word that he has re­turned In one piece. Don has been on Okin­awa since the first of October, arriving Irom le Shlma just in time for the typhoon which made his company area resemble "Hiroshima after the atomic bomb." Bon met Jolin Bar ­ley, '34, who has since returned home, and Frank Propek, '41» who was with the 238th Finance Disbursing Section in Naha. 
("We've learned since that Don, out of the Army, has returned to 50 Laurel St., East Weymouth, Mass.) 
Capt. John 3[c>'ichoIas was awarded the Oak Leaf Cluster to the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal, and the Purple Heart at ceremonies In February at Brooke Army ircdical Center. Ft. Sam Houston, Texas. John has served in both the RAF and the XJSAAF since he left school in 1939. He is Air Force liaison ofllcer at the center now and expected to return to overseas duty. 
Bcnnie Sheridan has been named head fool-ball, basketball and track coach and director of physical training classes at Mt. St. Joseph High School in Baltimore. Bennle entered the Army in 1941, coached and played on the Ft. Riley (Kans.) football team' until 1944. and went to Europe where ho served as an athletic and recreation ofilcer until his return to the States last fall. Discharged In Januarj-, he will join the Baltimore faculty oflicially next September. 
Bill 3Iorrissey is at home In Haverstraw, 
X. y., after three and a half years in the infantry. 
Jue Mulquren was discharged from the Army as a major and is working in Philadelphia in the advertising department of "Life" maga­zine. Jim Donojchae, formerly of Jersey City, is out of the Marines and employed by the 
A. G. Becker Co., 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. John Benedict, AAP captain during the war, lias returned to the sales department of the Hurley Machine Division of the Electric House­hold Utilities Corp. in Chicago. 
Harry Stevenson, Jr., Is out of the Army iind will open a sports goods store in Dover. 
X. J. Jim Yargo, 405 Irvlngton Ave., South Bend, is on terminal leave until the first of May. 
Ru:w Kini; is a mechanical engineer with Nash Engineering Co. in Norwalk. Conn, Charlie McCarthy was discharged from the Navy in February and has returned to Buffalo. Bill Small is back in West Orange. N. J., aiter being released oy the Navy. 
 W. PATTERSON, JB., 5530 

1941 JOHN 
IhtrlinKtoit Rd.. FSttsborxh, Pa* 

l^rom John Fattenjon; If the "old men" of Notre Dame, class 1941, will take out one hand and begin to count on 
their fingers the number of years that have elapsed since their graduation—the answer will be five. The '"flve" means that there is a class reunion coming up. In fact it's just around the corner, is definitely set for June 28-29-30. 
For many who have been in the service, it will be the first visit to Notre Dame since graduation. For most it will be the first op­portunity to see a flock of men they've in­tended to see but haven't "got around to It." No question about it. this '41 bunch should have a larger representation than any other class. After all, (If I recollect rightly) it was the biggest class ever lo graduate from Notre Dame. 
According to Bill Daoley, the emphasis Is going to be on informality. That means every­one's time is his own. The "hot shots" of the Oliver will be able to re-enact their campus days—without fear of reproachment from dis­ciplinary circles. "Rosie's" still has the spa­ghetti—as far as I know. 
Harry Gottron sent in a communique a few days ago. He is now stationed at an Atixtllary Naval Air Station called Martha's Vineyard. Probably going around In his bare feet tramp­ing on grapes. 
Harry was In the Soutti Pacific where he met up with a number of Notre Dame men from various classes. Says that Bill McGannon was athletic oificer with his outfit. 
A clipping from the Rutland 'Dally Herald* announced the promotion of Frank CVConnell to lieutenant commdr- in the Navy. Prank is stationed at Wright Field. Dayton, as deputy technical director of the Bureau of Aero­nautics. He and the Mrs. (formerly Miss Bonnie Perkins) live on Patterson Rd. in Dayton. 
Picked up a little gossip at a meeting of the West Penn alumni club meeting last week. Father Goodall -was there to show an excellent movie of campus activities and to lecture on future developments. 
l/ou Apone informed me that a group of graduates from Monongehela Valley are start­ing their own club—it's tough for them to get into Pittsburgh for most of the West Penn club's meetings. 
Paul Puslia came in with Lou and they both gave me some dope on a few of the non-Pittsburghers they've seen. (By the way, Lou was married just after Christmas to Gllda Gaudio.) 
Lou said that Dan Broderick is home and discliarged. He came out of the Navy as a lieutenant (sg). Ed Buddy is working for a packing company in St. Louis. Ed Shevlin Is now married to a girl he met in New Zealand. 
Saw Jimmy McNulty for a few minutes not so long ago at the Pittsburgh Athletic Asso­ciation—he was with ilrs. McNulty. 
Two good friends arc about to take the fatal step. Eddie MCHUKII has placed an engage­ment ring on the finger of Beverly Jane Quinn of Paterson, N. J. Paul Virn€>s, now a full-fledged doctor in Cleveland, will be married on March 23 to Edith Ingalls. 
I'm still waiting for some news of Geoixe Green, TOm PilKrlm, John 3Iartancli. Bob Dornn, etc. 
Last but certainly highly Important—Mr. and MIS. Vernon \Vitkowski*s son was born Jan. 19, 1946. 
Capt. fVank Bche. who has been In Japan with the Military Government Section of the Eighth Army since September, -writes: "A day or so after our headquarters was formally opened in Yokohama I received a visit from Lt. Jack Boyle who came Into Tokyo with the 11th Airborne Division. At that time Jack was sweating out Ills orders for redeployment and, more important still, was awaiting news of the arrival of the second little Boyle. I have heard since that the event came off as expected—''tis a boy named John L. III. .. . My second encounter with a Notre Dame man almost disastrously for me. for we collided in the outer hall of the GHQ mess, here In Tokyo. It was nw k BSad, *40. and knowins his football background antonuitlcally tells you who came out second beat In the collision. He and I had &• lon^ talk while eating' lunch that day, and that was our only meeting as he was sent on to another part of Japan with a Civilian Censorship Unit." 
Joha Sfaloaejr Is out of the Army and attend­ing Canislus College In Buffalo, doing graduate work in education. John was married to Jemn Larkln at Notre Dame in February. George FenMc was discharged by the Army as first lieutenant, and is with the New York JJtm Insurance Co. in BuCCalo. 
lit. Dad SteOcr, V9SB, is stUl with the Naval Air Transport Service in the Far Sast but is thinking of doing graduate work at Notre Dame when he is discharged. 
^aal Sca]ly» Jr., has returned to civilian life after 30 months service with the Army In the China-Burma-India Theater. He Is employed by the Bates Manufacturing Com­pany of Lewiston. Me. To ^ Stereas Is em­ployed by the Bntler Brothers in Chicago as assistant manager. Operational Control. Tom was released to inactive duty by the Navy In January. 
Vnd Vowier, placed on inactive status by the Army In January, Is a newspaper reporter with the Sleepy Eye (Minnesota) ''Herald-Dispatch." George Keed* was discharsed by the Army as captain and is liome in Soutli Bend. Bay Clttrke, also released 'as captain, has accepted a position as accountant with the Imperial Paper and Color Corp. in Glen Fails. X. T. XMariee JMCph OoaTcne has re­turned to Biilines, Hont.. after beinc dls^ charged from the Army as flrat lieutenant and DOB Teideauuu writes that he Is out of the Navy and home in WestSeld, N. T. 
Ovigti W. ThoMpMB, Jr^-haa been stationed at Ft. Bliss, Texas since his return from over­seas in October. He writes: "Since coming to this post I have seen several men from school, inciudintr three I graduated with. To ^ Untik, GeOTse Greene, and Ikaak Vnc, all of '41, were here, as was Capt.. Aasastlae K. Kdley, '38, who was discharged in December. Hodc and . Fox were discharged in January and I under­stand George Grccae is on his way overseas. Tom Maefalenkaiap was here also, but only for a few deys." 
Dr. Bcniie Saaltii is surgical re-Jdent at the Greenpoint Hospital in Broolclyn. Jaha V . LanoB is editor of "me American Swedish Monthly" New Torlc City, a publication of the Swedish Cluimber of Commerce in the United States. 
AmmUk and Sanford .Mtauui, both on terminal leave from the Navy as lieutenants, are at their home at 735 W. Jefferson Blvd., South Bend. Bob Banstadt was discharged as a lieutenant from the Marine Corps, and is home at 215 W. 47th Place, Los Angeles. A note from AI Vaa HaJTei's wife, Mary, in South Bend informs us that Al is out of the service and that they are returning to Warren, O.. to live. 
Bev. Benaud J. Faistasa, C.S.C.. has been appointed as faculty advisor to the student council at Notre Dame. Father Furstoss was selected from a short list of candidates sub­mitted to Bev. J. Hagh O'Donaell. C.S.C., by the Student Council. 
Bob Ort aa, having left the Navy with the rank of lieutenant, was signed by the Chicago Rockets professional football team, a member of the new All-American Football Conference. 
Bev. Aithar \S. Near, C.S.C., is at Saint Edward's University in Austin, Texas, working on his doctorate. Faal Piuaafcid, of Dallas, Texas, is out of the AAF and working for FM Bodl. '24, at the Buell Ijimber and Mfg. Co. Dick Skaachaesv. Jofea McOoaaeU.. Anthonr Mallefc, and Joe GaUtiaaa are ail dis­charged from the,service. 
1OS 9 WilOaa E. Seaalaa. Ml W. Pleanat 
I'fSt St.. Fartace. Wto. 
From Scaop Sraalna: Good news for the class of '42—officials of the Alumni Association have announced that 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
the first real honest-to-goodness five-year re­union will be held in the spring of 1947. . . Yes. that is a year away, but let's not forget to begin planning now. As you will notice, there is the general reunion planned this year. 1942ers will be most welcome. 
We'll start the ball rolling by noting the marriage of I>r. Ptie 3loulder, U.S.N.K., to Jane Eleanor Lyons in Cliicago on Feb. 9. Pete was graduated from the U. of Chicago Medical school and now is interning at Billings Hospi­tal, Chicago. 
From Racine, \Vis., came the news that Mr. and Mrs. Frank Bleidorn announced the mar­riage of their daughter Bemice Alvina to Lt. I>onaId F. Guj'rttc, Army Air Corps, on Feb. IC at Racine. 
14. Thomas E. He^nnrj- of Portage. Wis., was married to Marcla Anne Carr at Harlingen, Texas, on Jan, 15. Tom and his I)ride were Wisconsin visitors late in March. 
A new contributor to the Class of '42 news— Mrs. Thomas Cody, wrote on Marcli 5 that her son Tom of our class w.-is married at Mobile, Ala:, on Jan. IS, 1945. Enclosed was a clipping announcing the birtli of a son. Thomas Patrick. Jr., on Feb. 12, 1946 at St. Francis Hospital, Litchfield, 111. Tom has l)een stationed in Panama. 
Air-mailed from the Pacific was a communi­que, dated 31 Jan., from lA. (j-ic*) George UIil, aboard the U.S-S. Nereus, (AS-17). George. in and near Japan, described his experiences in the Japanese villages. 
Had communiques from Steve l*avelut still a sailor in the Seattle and Pacific area. He hopes to be discharged about "mid-May." 
Johnny McHaIr, has been optioned to Buf­falo of the International league by the Detroit Tigers. He has been an understudy to Hank Greenberg at first base for the T;gers. 
A note from Lt. Thumas Powrrs, then located at Fort McClcllan. Ala. 
Last time we heard of Jack Dinjces he was In the army in the Tokyo area. He is now spending liis terminal le;ive in Chicago. Here are two recent reports from him: 
"At Fort McKinley, near Manila. I ran into Lt. Bob Gu^ettc, who was with an Air Techni­cal Intelligence unit based near Clark Field. He said Neil 3I=Carty was also in the Clark Field area but I left for le Shima before having a chance to look him up. Tliis was some time during the first half of July, 1945, and they are probably home or on their way there by now. 
"After VJ Day on le Shima, I met two 
•42 boys, T/Sgt. Cornelius Duce.v. and L,t. K«I Kice. Ducoy left school after his sophomore year and got in the Army not long afterward. He became an Allison engine expert and. after getting married, served overseas with tlie Third Air Commando Group where. I think, he was line chief for tlieir P-5i squadron. He looked Itretty mucli the same as when he was at Notre Dame and was still active in athletics. He had been assigned to my old outfit, the 345tli Bomb Group (Air Apaclies), as a high point man and was going liomc with the out­fit, leaving for the States about mid-December. 
"Red, also now a married man, got over­seas just about in" time for the end of tlie war. He was with the 43rd Bomb Group (I think as a bombardier) and expecting to leave for Japan any day for occupation duty. The tliree of us gathered in my shack on Sunday after ^lass for a session of reminiscing about Notre Dame and the alumni we had met or heard from since leaving school. Red didn't seem to have changed much; his hair was still as red as ever even if it was clipped pretty sliort but the old ready smite and genial manner were as fresh as ever. One of the memories we all got a laugh from was the old Carroll Hall days when some of the boys would tr>* to give Pnink Galire*>ki (now full colonel), a hot foot. How Bnither Justtn't* hoys get around! 

Sixteen veteimns are enrolled at Holy Cross Seminary, Xotrc' Dame, and have beffun tlieir studies for the priesthood In the ConKresation of Holy Cross. Thej' are pictored here with lather Edmund Murtay, C.S.C, recently returned to the teachinjc stalT of the University lifter service as chaplain nith the 104th (Tlmberwolf) Division in the European camimicn. ivliere hr received the Silver Star for eallunto' under tire.. (.-Vmon^ his souvenirs is the Nazi flar niiirli he in displaying to the ex-G.I*s) 
In this rronp are veterans who fought at Iwo Jima, BuuKainville. Guam, the invasions of Africa, Italy. Normandy, the Buttle of the BiUire, and the Central Europe and Rhinelund campaigns. Keadin^ from left to right they are: 
Seated: fMher Mnrra.v, C.S.C., Russel Neighbor, Cliicaieo; Peter Tomashek, Shawano, Wis; Walter Eidson, Berrien Springs, Mich; Joseph Swierczenski. Duo'ea, Pa.; John Biric­meyer, BulTalo, N. Y. Standing: Milton l*artridge, Cincinnati. O.; Charies Weiher, Wapar­koneta, O.; Edward Dolan, Sliaron, Pa.; Dan Kenneric, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Harold Pear, Portland. Ore.; Robert Dever, Dorcliester, 3[uss.; Fred Barr, Peoria, HI.; John Weihrer, Heading. Pa.; James Iffo. Lexin^on. 3IaM.; Nicholas Lancenderfer, Swanton, O.; James Wall, Miamisbnnr, O. 
There are also live ex-senicemen at the Seminar?' of Our rad>- of Holy Cross, the eastern preparatory- seminar?- of the Congregation of Holy Cross, located at North Easton. Maet>. 
"One of the first '42 men I met overseas was 14. Andy Cliemey, It was way back in November. M4, on Biak where he was with a fighter control unit. There was a boy named Kneebuid. from a later Notre Dame class, in my squadron but lie was killed a short time before I joined the outfit. 
"Being a low pointer. I went on up to Japan when the 345th left for home. I found Japan quite interesting, especially after bleak, typhoon-wrecked le Shima, but In a month my points came through and I left for liome. landing- in Seattle in late January. AVliile I was overseas, m^- folks moved to Cliicago and we'd always l)e glad to see any of the boys who may be passing througli. 
"More scoops—Hank Dahm was a QM otficer somewhere in the CBt and Joe Palmer has been married. 
"Here Is a report on the Chicago cluli dance of Slarch 1. It was held at the Morrison Hotel in Chicago and some of the '42 men I met there were: John Griffin, and his attractive red-haired fiance; Bob Raaf and tlie Mrs.; Bill Hickey, Jack Klees and Bob Har­rrave. 
"Griflin has been out of the Coast Guard some time and looks about as he used to; I hadn't heard about him for a long time. Raaf, who was a lieutenant (s.g.) in the Navy Air Corps, got out around December and has left Missouri for the Chicago area where he plans to settle. He'll Ite a welcome addition to our local club. Got to talk to Bill Hickey Just long enough to find out that he Is work­ing for some steel firm. Grif reported that Tommy Dillon is out of service and going to law school, at Northwestern, if I remember correctly. 
"I finally heard from Tom Kauffman. He is discharged from the Army and hack in Detroit. He spent most of his overseas period In Italy. T was sorrj- to hear that his mother died. Tom reported that his Sorin Hall room­mate. Norm Van Sile, had entered the somi­narj* at New Hamburg, X. T. 
"Couple of days after the dance, who should T meet in the Loop hut Jnhnny Kelly, yes. the drummer boy. He Is still getting lots of Ideas for radio shows and is planning to move himself and family to New York in the spring." 
That covers the contrIl)utions for the past few weeks. While at the Rosary College Formal a few weeks ago. I humped Into Ben Ciaccio, Geonee Meltzer and Bill Kripers, all enjoying the company of Rosary-ites. Also got to see Bill Fay. now hack at the Cliicago "Tribune" and much interested in things along the tennis front. Red I^onergan, wlio is cur­rently doing some special work for the Chicgo Notre Dame CluIi. Also saw Joe Pctritz, pub­licity chief of the All-America football Con­ference during a visit to New York a few weeks ago. 
It's now time to look at doings by the Lawyers of our class, recounted by Mrs. Lora Lashbrook: 
Announcements liave been receivei on the campus from Ed Kelly announcing tlie open­ing of his new office where he will engage in the general practice of law, in Ottawa, III. 
Jim Lancaster wrote the dean several weeks ago to say that he expected to he discharged soon, and that he hopes to take some refresher work some place and get into practice with little delay. 
Joe Stiller dropped in for a visit recently, and reported that he has accepted a position in Chicago. He was looking very elegant in "clvies." 
John Terdonk was here for a few hours on March 22 to tell us that he is a candidate for prosecuting attorney for his home county in Michigan. 
AI Clwrfis is practicing in South Bend with his brother Nirtc, who was recently discharged from the Navy. 
Jim Nm paid us a visit recently, too. to report he is out of the Army after several months duty on General Mac.A.rthur's staff in tlie Pacific. He looks fine, has lost little weiglit and was debating the respective merits of the old Job witli Columhhi Broadcastini; Co. against the problems and joys of private practice in his home town of Plymouth. Ind. 

A nice long letter came this week from Ijiiuie Anderson, stationed at the Army Ground Forces Replacement Depot Xo. 1, Camp Pic­kett. Va. He is doing legal work which in­volves advice to men going overseas. 
Jim DuncT has opened an otiice for general practice in AHchigan. We have liad no recent report on his business but assume lie is doing his usual good Job. 
Bill Ilfvsinski, at last report, was looking for an apartment—along wltli about ten thousand others—and hoped to settle down in South Bend and get a little of the law practice for himself. 
Leo Linck is at L.angley Field. Va.. regret­ting that he decided against adding the extra "ten points" when lie considered it several months ago, because it seems certain that he still has some time to go before he can get out of uniform and into a law office. He ex-expects to open an otiice in his home town in Michigan. 
Wurren Deulil is out of the Army and try­ing Ills hand at South Bend practice. 
Bill Spungler wrote a newsy letter from his home town in Iowa. He expects to start practicing after lie has a little chance to re­view. He has promised us a visit very soon. Bill has had a long period of service in India witli the Army Air Forces. 
Everyone is asking about John Wuertz. He should be eligil>le for discharge by now. 
Fete Alunzi is out of the Navy and again is a Chicago civilian. This information was relayed to us through some of the present students who had a week-end in Chicago recently. 
Joe Burr is practicing in his home town of Wood River. III. Already he has a client, and we expect this one to be the start of a long line of substantial clients who will get Justice under the law at the hands of ex-Marine Barr. We have reserved space in a special column for some news of the Barr's In the August oi October number of the "Alumnus." 
Barney Gnuney is back in Montana prac­ticing and trying to shake off the habits he acquired while a member of the "Stars and Stripes" staff Paris edition. 
One of the most intensely interesting souve­nirs of the war that we have received was ' sent to us by registered mail this week by I*t, Tim Green, stationed in the Philippines. It is a complete transcript of the record of the trial of Homma, certified as true copies. The lawyers here, faculty and students, are liter­ally "eating it up." Tim would have liked to have come along with the document, accord­ing to a good letter which arrived about the same time. He sent some nice snapshots of himself and Jack Kjan, who has been out there with him but is now at home in Denver. 
Another welcome visitor to the campus this week was Herb Melton, glittering in gold braid and silver bars, who came in to visit and to inquire about the process necessary' to get back in school in September. 
Back in law school of the 1942 graduates from other scliools on the campus are: Jack Barrj't Lou CarU':o, James E. G<Mlfrej-, SCchuel Godfre3-, lYetl Moover, Graham McGofvan, Jim Price, Nick Villurosa, and almost all of the 1943 class who started law study in the com­bination programs or who had been graduated in 1943 and started law study before the military call came. 
Gene Hntmocher has been returned to in­ative status by the Xavy and has accepted a position with the U. S. Rubber Company in Mishawaka. Joe Knott, discharged from the Navy as lieutenant, was home in Ansonia, Conn. After Iiis discharge from the Navy as lieutenant, Kd Dunluvy became a salesman with the Comprehensive Fabric Co., X. Y. C. Dick Ulllemin was discharged in March as first lieu­tenant after 20 months in the Pacific -with Army Ordnance. Ken Kirby, discharged on the west coast, stopped at Notre Dame in February on the way to visit his brother Jim *3C. in Irvington, X. J. 
Tom Ilobiin, placed on inactive status by the Xavy as lieutenant, is working in the Account­ing Otfice at Xotre Dame. Tom was commander of LCI's, LST'.s and L.SM*s in the Sicilian and Italian campaigns and in the invasion of Southern France, and Iiad a tour in the Pacific before his return. B<il» Ulil is advertising man­ager for Simon Brothers, wholesale grocers in South Bend. Art Po|»e is out of the Navy and back in Chicago. 
Ji>e Knriek is an engineer-designer with the Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester. N. T. .Joe Sullivan is working in South Bend for the Super Sales Co. as service manager for a new line of electronic dictating equipment known as "Sound Scriber." 
Tom Poweis, Enid, Okla., was discharged from the Army on March 30. Vince Slatt was discharged from the service and has returned to Butte. :Mont. Frank Piatt has been dis­charged from the infantry and is back in Johns­town. Pa. Hnl Zimmer is back in Rochester. 
X. y.. after being discharged from the Army. 
Cliff Br(>se>-, recently discliarged from the Army after more than three years service, registered at the University for the spring term. Olen Parks, former star tennis player, is back in Mishawaka after extensive service in the Pacific 
Clarenee Helbintr is an associate chemist with the Armour Research Foundation in Chicago, and lives in Elmhurst, III. 
«0^ ^ LT. EDWARD C. RONEY, 1733 Iro-I *" ^ qnois Ave., Detroit, Mich. 
From Ed Koney: Well, the word is out. The Third Annual Fund is over and '43 is second in both money and percentage of contributors. It's the second time in tlie same spot as far as receipts go. but this year we dropped from first to second place in percentage of contributors. So this year the other classes had better prepare— we're out to lead the field in both. 
There's not much news this month except that most of the Detroit servicemen are out. At the last Xotre Dame club of Detroit meet­ing. I ran into Jim O'Dunnell, Jim Mm-phj-, and Dick 3IiII:man and I've talked to Jim Byrne several times lately. Also, saw Gerr>- Carrier and Bob Pelanchar. 
Jim O'Donncll has taken advantage of the 
G. I. Bill and is at the University of ^lichlgan studying law. He says there's a real Notre Dame *43, crowd up there- His roommates at the Lawyers Club are President Jack Tallet and Chuck Murpliy and <Iown the hall always 
' can be found Hanr* Helland, Bob Browninjc. and Jack AValsli. They hope to get to one of the Detroit Club's meetings, soon, after which we hope to have a get together. 
Jim said that Bob McDonald is back at Xotre Dame taking law; Bill O'Xeil is still Army and now in San Francisco; while Don Miller Is ex-Xavy and in law scliool at Harvard. 
Gerrj' Currier has already received his degree 
•and opened up an olfice here in Detroit some time ago. Jim Muri>hy and Dick Slllliman are sticking closer to home and in the law school at the .yniversity^qf Detroit. 
Bob Pelanchar has an IS-months old daught­er Patricia Ann. He was with U- S. Rubber but is now a Proctor & Gamble Soap salesman and doing very well. "Would like to he.ar from Harry O'Melia. 
Ed Ilickey, now a lieutenant, is still on the 
U.S.S. President Adams, and making trips be­tween Seattle and Japan, returning troops. Last I heard, he was to be executive officer of the ship. Bub 3Iadden is a lieutenant (Jg) at the Xaval Air Base. Alameda. Calif., while Joe NorHs is a Supply Oflicer aboard the U. S. S. :Mississippi. 
Jim Byrne is home and provided the follow­ing news. Jack.GIIUcaa received the Silver Star for his action aboard the minesweeper Rodman when his ship was under attack by 50 Kamikazes. BUI Morehcad is in law school at the University of Kentucky and will be married in June. 
Bad Ibvct* was in the Navy and was last heard from as a lieutenant in charge of the commissary store at Great Lakes. He was aboard a destroyer for 25 months and can wear 13 battle stars. Bud married Bob Smmgrna'a sister, Mary, some time ago. 
Bill R^an was an athletic specialist in re-^ cruit training at Great Lakes when last heard about, as was Xeil Green, fteol Xalloy is home after some months as an aerial observer in the Pacific. Some news missed in the last issue concerns that information I got from I>ad Smith and Ramon Ai^ a at the N. D.-Army game. 
Seems Dud and Ramon have started an ex­porting business in New York for handling^ products of the U. S. and South America, Ra­mon would like to hear from IVed Gove, as would I. 
Diek Cre«Tey was in the South Pacific at the time 'and Is to be married. Jaek Hlnes is out of service and is working^ for his father In Xew Haven. Conn. Tom MUler, married. Is attending law school at the University of Penn­sylvania. . 
My brother writes from Charleston. S. C, that Roc Cammincs and fill McCaasbey are down there also putting their ships in red lead. And Joe Haas, one of the first of our class to enter the service, is now back at school, picking up that long-delayed degree. 
What is the class thinking and planning about the General Reunion. June 28-29-30? How many of you are going ? So that the rest of the class can know. Just drop me a line on yourselves. Letters are what this column needs and what it doesn't have this issue. 
John A. Xairay has been discharged from the Army. Bill Cartis is continuing his studies for the priesthood at the St. Thomas Seminary in Denver. 
A letter from Joe 0*Briea'f» sister brings in­formation that Joe was apparently too modest to forward: that he has been in the Army since March, 1943, and is at present a first lieutenant with a Chemical 2dortar batalHon in Hawaii. Harry O'Mcalia is out of the serv­ice and Is president of the O'Mealia Outdoor Advertising Co. in Jersey City. N. J. 
Dan Holwell, having returned from Pacific duty with the Na\-y, Is now attached to a shore activity of the Atlantic Fleet. Dan says he has spent many liberty weekends at the home of Cap*. Jim 0*lMishlin, '42. USMCR. who is stationed a few miles away. 
14. Bob Kasberr. USXR. Indianapolis, is on terminal leave. Bob Breska was discharged as lieutenant (Jg) in January. He was here with Mrs. Breska the last of February. Bad Dadley is back in Philadelphia after his dis­charge. Don UUler was discharged In Janu­ary as a T/4 and is back in Evansvllle. Ind. Don was at Notre Dame in March. Dallas Milem, of South Bend, -was discharged In Feb­ruary. Charlie Qaialaa has been released from the Xavy, having been in since March of 1942, serving 19 months In Panama. 
Bob Herrioctan has been discharged from the Array and is back at Los Alamos doing the same work he did as a G- I- for the University of California's Research Laboratories. lioa BevOaeqaa reported to the Washington Senator's spring training camp. 
Bob Towner, ex. '43, (of the South Bend "Tribune,") recently welcomed to South Bend his English bride, whom he met and married while serving in the Army in England. 
Marine Lt. Harwj Wright was named foot­ball coach and director of physiiral education at Aquinas Institute, Rochester, N. T. Harry will report to. Aquinas when released from his marine duties at Mlramar, Calif. 
Dick Mnrray was graduated on Jklarch 17 from the Georgetown University School of Medicine. 
The Silver Star niedal for "conspicuous gal­lantry and intrepidity in action" on April 6, 1945, at Okinawa, has been awarded to John 
J. GilUcmn. While fires raged nearby, John entered the ammunition handling room of his minesweeper and supervised the removal of ready service ammunition, then took station aft and directed the operation of the only guns remaining in action in such an efficient manner as to repel repeated attacks by enemy aircraft on the vessel. 
Frank Rdey was separated from the Army as a first lieutenant in February and is home in Sewickley, Pa. Ray Dnggan was on termi­nal leave in January at his home in Sioux City, Iowa, 
I OA A 90nS A. I.YNCH, 15724 Grandville • *•!• § Rd., Detroit 23. Mich. 
From John I«yiich: Taking them in order, it's Joe Gall first, writing in from San Pedro. Calif., where he's tr>'Ing to shake loose from that stripe and a Iialf that the Navy bestowed on him. He may be personally decommissioned by now, because this was written Feb. H, aboard the U.S.S. LCI(R) 706. 
"One of the 'Alumnus' magazines finally reached me after I was seriously considering sending another check. I sure was glad to hear that H«rt' Clartc is well again. It was all a surprise, because the last I heard was that he was missing in action in the ETO. 
"I came back to the U. S. Feb. 5, after having left in October of '44. This place looks 
- mighty good. I've been knocking around the Pacific quite a bit in the past IS months— Hawaii, Funafuti, Guadalcanal, Tulagi. Ullthi. Okinawa (for the entire operation), Leyte, back to Okinawa for the tj-phoon (what a nightmare that was!), Tangku. Tientsin and Chlnwangto. China, and then back home via Guam. Salpan, and Pearl Harbor. I'm at San Pedro now awaiting word as to whether we'll be decom­missioned here or make the trip around to the East Coast. I've given them pretty much of a sob story, so we have a chance of being stripped here. After having been communica­tion ofllicer and exec on this match box. Tm now skipper. I'm in the harbor with Ed Don-ling, whose ship will be stripped here. I 'went into Los Angeles with Ed the other night. 
'Tve run Into quite a few fellows from Xotre Dame out in the Pacific, some being John Hidcey (who doesn't?). Bob Fangfat, Bill Benet, Ray RueCz, Gns Znelke (twice at Pearl), Miles KcUy, John Boyle. i:d Keelan, BUI O'Brien, Gene Moore, Bob Kelly (formerly Holy Cross, but a V-12er at Notre Dame), and a few others I can't think of at the moment I also had a get-together with Ed Dowling at Lej-te. John Hidcey is keeping the Naval Air Station on Ford Island going full blast. Gus Znelke has worked one of those 'deals' again. When T saw him about three weeks ago he was coming home for another 30-day leave, and a shore Job in "Washington. (Well, so he says.) 
"I've been hearing occasionally from Tom O'Reilly, who's in Germany. I think. I had a letter from John Prince last week. He's still in the Ryukyus, this time on Okinawa, and had been on le Shima previously. I also hear from Bill Waldmn who now is stationed In Callfomla. I'm going to try to see him. If I can. Bill was married to Ann Egner of Jersey City last August. I was to have been an tisher, but obviously couldn't make it. Bill plans to re­turn to Notre Dame with the Mrs. soon. And I hope to enroll in law school at Georgetown next fall unless something unexpected pops up. 
"I hear occasionally from Prof. Ed Smith, and sometimes busy lUhe r Craddick drops a note. lUher Joe Powers is In the graduate school at Harvard now, so he no longer pro­vides me with the news around the dome. However, someone over at 'The Rock' comes through quite often. Incidentally, Bill O'Con­nor (Harrisburg, Pa.) will be married May 11. 
"I should get a 30-day leave shortly, and 
plan to drop around the campus. I'll probably 
spend quite a bit of time 'chawing' with good, 
old Bill Setty at the librarj-." 
Thanks, Joe, and I hope you have been able to get to Notre Dame by this time. Lots of the boys are back, and things won't be dull. 
Out in the Pacific cx-roomle Jim Cnnningham is still aboard the Perkins (DDS77), and cen­soring the personal out of his letter, we come ­up with these brief bits: 
"We're stuck with garrison duty in.Buckner Bay, Okinawa, and probably won't see the States until April. But I won't have the point total until July 22, so might as well be here­."Enjoyed the 'Alumnus* copy and am forward­ing same to Mike Conway, who when last heard from was here on Saipan. He expects to hit the States about the same time I do. 
"Had a card from Father Frank Gartland, the other day." 
That finishes our western correspondence, so it's off to South America and Chuck Fickhardt. His mail is addressed through Miami, Florida, but he was in Natal, Brazil, when he wrote. 
"Well, I imagine you and nine-tentlis of the old bunch are out of the service now, and I certainly wish I was. I've been in the Air Transport Command since I've been in the Army, and being a non-combat outfit, none of us have those 5-point battle stars. Of course, none of us have earned them, but they would coma in mighty handy as you can well imagine­
"I came down here right after VE day, and have been sweating out my discharge since VJ day, and It Is no nearer now than it ever was. I really planned on March 20, following • the good word of Gen. Marshall, but now I'll have to sweat some more—until the end of June in all probability. Life is easy down here, but each and every one of us Is tired of the Army. 
"Have been an operations specialist now for around 15 months and like the work very much. The past two months I've been taking route checks all over Brazil—larger than the U- S. incidentally—and was fortunate enough to be In Rio de Janiero for Christmas. I've visited almost every large city in the States, but never have I seen as beautiful a city as Rio. 
"Have lost most contacts in the past year with the boys. Heard from J. C. R. Clark who's working for the Army Air Force at Wright Feld—rewriting translations of German aeronautical experiments. Says it*s quite inter­esting work. He tells me that Jim O'Dea, the Lowell politician, is out of the Marines and a proud papa. Hear my old roommate, Tom Duffy, is back at Notre Dame. Although I got my degree, I'd sure like to see the old gang that has returned once again. Got quite a kick out of reading the accounts of the class in the December Issue of the 'Alumnus.' 
A quick trip north brings us to Green Cove Springs, Fla., and BUI Schench, aboard the 
U. S. S. Edward H. Allen, a DE. As of Feb­17 he was still up to his ears In Navy. 
"Guess old Notre Dame Is starting to fill up again with the boys—^verj- familiar names you mention. I had heard about the deaths of Red Wolff, Gene Zapko, and George Wolfe. Sure was a blow to me, for they were some of my closest friends back at school. I was In North Carolina last June and I called up Red WoUT:* mother and had quite a chat with her. She felt quite free to talk and told me all about John's death, and said that one of the crew­men had written her a very nice letter. I think this particular man was the only one to get out. 
"Our Job here is still a big one and not coming along too fast. We have now set de­commissioning date back, and if we keep losing men at the rate we have been, we'll have to set it back again. .. . Have seen none of the boys—kind of hibernated down here." 
Hox Rogers was battling Italy's mud when I last saw him, in the fall of 1944, but he is home now and trying to be a peaceful civilian. How well he is doing he lets us know through a letter from Oak Park, 111., on Feb. 18. 
"I w^as discharged and got home the 10th of December, and just in time to enjoy a fine Christmas. Then I went to Florida, and just got home from there a week ago. I then decided to visit Notre Dame, and the outcome* once I got on the campus was to sign up for next semester. I had not planned to do that, but I just couldn't resist it once down there. 
"I've heard from most of our mutual friends from the 88th. and they are all home now and civilians. Even Father Crowley, who Is assigned to parish work in Syracuse, N. T. I made the trip home with Ray O'Connell and was discharged with him- Tom O'Connor fol­lowed us by about a week. I've heard from him, but not recently. Hay is also going back to school in March, as is 'Black John' Marpliy. I understand the old *44 class will be well 
•represented at that time, so It will be like old times. If you get down to school, look me up." 
In the same mail there was a letter from John Beyerle, whose last address liad been 'Inside Germany,' but whose present one is Notre Dame. John's letter was from Cleve­land, where he was getting acquainted with civilian living before moving to school. 
"Thanks very much for the 'big blowout* In the December 'Alumnus.' I got hold of a copy just the other day. in the Alumni Ofiice at school. I was up at Notre Dame for the week­end. It was a business and pleasure trip. The business part of it was getting into the Gradu­ate School and locating a room for the coming semester. I have the position of student pre­fect on the 2nd floor of Howard, which Is being partly reopened to civilian students­
"Whlie on the campus I saw Tom Bremer, Gene Wohlhom, \ic De Simon, Fan! O'Connell, still in uniform, Rmmct Jenning:^, who will graduate from St. Louis Med School in a few weeks, and Sam West, who is in the Commerce College at present. Jennings told me that Dick BniYess Is working in Clilcago for an account­ing firm. 
"I also saw Fathers Butler, Keller, Kehoe and Moor^ Brothers Conan and Meinmd, and Jim Armstrong of the Alumni Ofiice. It certain-was great to see the golden dome with the statue of Our Lady shining and looking over the campus just the same as of old." 
Another dubious report has come to a happy end, with a letter from Charlie Hosier, now a civilan at Hempstead, Long Island. This comes under the heading of very good news, for I haven't seen Charlie since C^mp Croft In 1943. 
"Don't faint dead away and think that you are getting a letter from a ghost. The fact is that I'm very much alive. I happened to see the February issue of the 'Alumnus.' and the rumor of my being killed in Europe, so I thought it best to inform you of the truth as soon as possible. I don't know how or where the rumor started, but some people thought me dead for about two years. 1 need not tell you how glad I am that they were wrong. 
"In the last letter I got from you. you gave me a ribbing about my soft life in the Air Corps. It was a funny thing, because I got the letter as an Infantryman In the Battle of the Bulge. You see, I was one of the 65,000 that they sent back to the Ground Forces be­fore 'D' Day, and I was put Into the S7th Division. We went overseas in October. '44. and entered combat at Metz. From that time on it was steady going until we hit the Czech border on VE day. We came back to the States, supposedly headed for the Pacific, but VJ day came just In time, a week before my 30-day furlough was up, and our division was inactivated In October. From Ft. Bcnning I went* out to the West Coast where I was discharged Jan. 9. 
"Now that I am a civilian again. I am going back to school and pick up wliere I left off. I leave next Monday to start the next semester. It will be good to see a lot of the boys again. 
"Now for the latest news from around here. Our one and only Jack W€>elfle, the 'Green Banana' man, is engaged to be married. His fiance is Miss Muriel Van Pelt of Lynbrook. No doubt St. Mary's will be mourning when they hear of it. Ted Kreoll Is now home and discharged. He plans to return to school, if he gets his application in on time. Bill Sdmeder reenllsted in the Army. The four of us have been out on several occasions. I haven't heard from Ed Steiner in quite some time. 
Volume 24, No. 2, April, 1946 
Our last mall is from the campos and the pen of **Black John*' Murpby. This just made the deadline, and reassures us that the class of '44 Is holding its own at Notre Dame. 
"You should see the guys that are back— Joe Lane, John Doffy, Bob Oasey. lion Sdimldt, Fl:«d and lArry Goebler, Jim liloyd. Bill Mur­phy, Bad Ahcam, Mox Borers, Stan Kndlacx* George Dixon, and on and on and on. 
"My wife. Aggie, and I are very happy In the home of Harold Miller, '28. and the set-up is swell. Got a Job on the new dorm, four hours a day- Keeps us in cigarettes any^vay. Bill Dooley was asking for you, so come on over." 
That does it once again. Don't forget the general reunion June 28-29-30. See you then. And, if you're '44, write a letter now. 
Steve O'Roorke, killed In action in Luxem­bourg, has been awarded the Bronze Star Jledal, according to word received by his parents from the War Department. Steve was fatally wounded while leading a medic to the rescue of a seriously wounded buddy who was exposed to enemy fire. 
Ray Buetz is on inactive status as Lt. (jg) and is working In South Bend. T/4 Bob McAu-IIITe, was a laboratory technician in the 309th General Hospital at Fukuoka. Kyushu. 
Benito BmncAti was discharged In Berlin last fall to accept employment on a civilian status with the United States Treasury. At present he is located with the Finance Di­vision, Office of Military Government for Ger­many. John Walsh, of ilarquette, Mich., was discharged In December and Is now at the University of Michigan law school. 
Bob Livingstone returned to the University for the spring semester and will seek to re­gain his starting left half position. Frankie Cuiran, star of the *42-*43 basketball team, will return to school next fall. Jolin Niemiern and Tom Craddock expect to get out of the Army soon and both intend to return to Notre r>:ime. Gene Slevin, Peoria, 111., is out of the Army and back at the university. 
Paul OXonnell, Newark, N. Y., doing gradu­ate work in chemistry at the University of Rochester, was associated with the famed "Manhattan Project." 
John M. Murmy Is an accountant with Has-kin and Sells of Chicago. Howie Schmitt Is worliing for the Laboratory Equipment Corp., in Benton Harbor. Mich. Dick Gietzen and Tom McLnujchTln were discharged from the service early tliis year. 
1945 and Later 
DAVID R. CONDON, **The Chlcaco Trlbone," Chicairo, Bl. 

Ken Schultz out of the Navy, has accepted a position as major engineer in the stress analysis department of the Boeing Airplane Co. at Wichita, Kans. 
Bob Riordan, vice consul at the American Consulate In Luanda. Angola. South Africa, (and don't say you've never heard of it) ?ip­parently has assumed duties as unofficial public relations man for the Luanda Chamber of Com­merce. In a letter to Father Charles Carey, C.S.C., Bob writes: "Luanda has a long narrow sand island joined to the mainland by a cause­way, forming the outer part of Its harbor. This island affords the most wonderful sea bathing to he found In the whole world. People come here for their vacations from all points along the west coast of Africa, just to use the beach. And the city is very modern in every­thing from city buses to ultra modern atchl­tecture. .. . It would put all of California to shame. In fact, I wouldn't trade 100 feet of the Luanda beach for the whole coast of Cali­fornia." Letters can be mailed to Bob c/o F. 
A. Mail Room, Department of State, Washing­ton, 25, D. C. 
Nothing but bad news for opponents on the Notre Dame football schedule next fall was the announcement that the following monogram winners, all ex. *45, had returned to their studies at the university: Jerrj* Cowhip, Bob Kelly, and George Tobin. In addition to these men. Jim Mdlo is coming back in the fall. And for baseball rivals the news that Tom Sheehan, hard-hitting catcher of two seasons ago. had returned was not comforting. 
A'enturu Gonzalez, after two years in the Air Corps, during which he completed 32 com-l>at missions with the Eighth Air Force as a gunner-engineer, has returned to Notre Dame to resume his study of architecture. 
Ph.M. 3yc Richard Brosk, was spending a 30-day reenlistment furlough with his parents in South Bend in March. This is Dick's first visit home since 1944, and he will report to the naval armor>' in Chicago for reassignment at the termination of his furlough. 
Frank Doncewicz, has begun training for a pro football career which he expects to last for 10 or 15 years. He begins next fall with the Boston Tanks of the National Football league. 
Dick Terry and his brother. Bob, are both out of the service and at present are at home in Kewanee, 111. Dick, in the Army three years, will enter St. Louis University next fall to finish his prc-med and mke medicine. Bob will start his junior year of medicine at St. Louis next fall; he's been there all along as a naval trainee. 
Sgt. Turn Ward, has been awarded the Army Commendation for "extraordinary and creative writing in the coverage of Special Services activities in the European theater." 
Pvt. Bill Boemtf*, is stationed at a Marine Corps base In northern China, about 10 miles from Manchuria. Bill said he would like to hear froni some of his pals. His address is: Pvt. *W. F. Roemer, 1019426, USMC. Co. C. 1st Bn.. 7th Reg.. 1st Div. c/o FPO, San Fran­cisco. 
Salvatore Bernardi is an Instructor in math­ematics at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa. Geoixe Balas Is a high school teacher in Ann Arbor, Mich. Jack Leahy, is working for the Richfield Oil Co. in Long Beach, Calif. Joe Gtirmley, has returned to Indianapolis after being released from the Army in February. Floyd Harahbergcr was released from the Navy in December after 3S months* service and has returned to MInot, N. D. 
COMMENDED FOR SERVICK 
Notre Dame has. been warmly com­mended for its services in the Engineer­ing Science and management War Train­ing. Program of the United States government. The commendation, re­ceived from George W. Case, director of the ESMWT office, conveyed the appreciation and praise of the govern­ment for the well-planned programs of the University. 
The ESMWT program was introduced at Notre Dame in the summer of 1940 and continued through January, 1946. Engineering, chemistry and industrial management were taught to war work­ers, tuition free, by Notre Dame pro­fessors. Attendance averaged 1,100 nightly. The original director of the program, the late Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, was succeeded in 1944 by the Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C. 
ON ATOMIC BOMB COMMITTEE 
Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, professor of philosophy, has been appointed a member of the committee of Science, Religion and the Atomic Bomb, estab­lished by the Atomic Associates, Inc., at the University of Chicago. Chief work of the committee will be education­al, and stress will be laid on the idea that force or power cannot control the atomic bomb and that only law and a religious conscience may be expected to produce results that are truly human. 
The Notts Dmme Club of the St. Jeaeph Valley • • Afril 7 had i u annaal Ceaaanioii­limtkfnst oimmemiiratinK (he death o! Knnte K. Kockae. Afterwards clab memben went to Hiehlaud CemettiT, South Bend, where a wreath was faUd on Kaek'a smTe aad ttajensaid. Here at the zrave are, in the forccround. Her. Eaceae P. Bnkei, C.S.C., clnb ehiwlaia Ensene U'Brirn, cluls president, and Fna k Ixalqr. 
The 23rd Annual 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
Monday, April 29, 1946 
Dedicated to: 

1.
 Notre Dame men who served in World War II 

2.
 Leadership by Notre Dame men in the aiJpHcation of fundamental principles to the cause of peace and justice. 


Indications are that all Noti'e Dame Clubs, reinforced by the return of 
Notre Dame men from service, will meet this year. 
Many Clubs are enlisting local radio stations for programs. 
A national hook-up is possible, to be announced in detail. 
(See also the Catholic Hour series of addresses by Father O'Donnell, beginning April 28, announced in this issue.) 
Resumption of the annual 
Commencement and Reunions 
! on the Notre Dame campus, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, 
JUNE 28-29-30, 1946 

As previously announced, conditions do not permit full resumption of the five Year Reunion and all of the features of former Commencement week-ends. 
Father O'Donnell has appointed a Committee to study plans, how­ever, to make this 1946 informal reunion, without Class emphasis, one that Noti-e Dame men will remember. It is an opportunitj'', whatever the limi­tations of housing and food may be, for Notre Dame men to see Noti-e Dame and each other. Returning service men of all Classes are looking forward to this occasion. Many of the Classes that would normallj- hold reunions this year are also planning to prepare special programs for the week-end. 
So plan to be on the campus. We are sure you'll enjoy it. Details of housing, food, etc., •v\ill be annomiced in adequate time. 






