The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Club Campaign Realizes $25,000 
(Page 3) 
New Semester Opens 
(Page 5) 

Centenary Plans Announced 
(Page 7) 
Midshipman School Started 
(Page 8) 

Historic Brownson Still Serves as Centenary Opens 
Vol.21 OCTOBER. 1942 No. 
Gcxi, Country, Notre Dame 
A memorial plaque inscribed with the name of eadi of the Notre Dame men to die to date in World War II was dedicated on August 29 in the vestibule of Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., presi­dent of die University. Other names will be added as die sad occasions arise. 
In the picture above, left to right, are Francis J. Hanley, assistant professor of art, now an ensign in the Navy, who deigned the plaque; Rev. William T. Craddick, C.S.C., prefect of religion, and Father O'Donnell. 
The plaque was presented to the University dirough the sponsorship of the Student Commission for Decent Literature of which Louis F. Kurtz, '43, Des Moines, la., is chairman. 
They Gave Their lives 
WORLD WAR II 

Ensign Francis X. Clarke, '39  Robert E. Fordyce, ex. '42  Eugene A. Poletto, '40  
Lt. James T. Connell, '40  Capt. Richard S. Freeman, ex. '29  Francis V. Quackenbush, ex. '38  
1st Lt. Milton E. Connelly, ex. '43  Oliver P. Helland, Jr., '39  Lt. Edward J. Sdireiber, '41  
Ensign John P. Ffrench, '34  Ensign Fergus F. Kelly, '37  John T. Von Harz, '40  
John V. Flynn, '36, Royal Air Force  Lt. William P. Marsh, '41  George W. Weber, ex. '40  
Joseph C. Foley, '37  Lt. Col. Hugh F. McCaffcry, '27  Ensign George A. Wolf, ex. '39  


Missing in Action 
Sgt. Thomas P. Foy, '38 Ensign George K. Petritz, ex. '38 Mario G. tonelli, '39 Henry J. McConnell, ex. '37 Lt. Howard K. Petschel, ex. '42 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Thii mazaxine is pnbli<]>ed montUr from October to June, fnclmive (except Jamary), kgr O* Vabcrritr of Motn DBM^ 
Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered ai tecond clan matter Oetdbar 1, 193>, at ^ rmtuUki, Hoti* Daaia, T-^U^- nadir tt« 
act of Ansust 24, 1912. Hember of the American Alnmnl Council and of the Natioaal '•'•iH'lit AioBiai JA.MES E. ARMSTKONC. 73. Editor; WILLUM R . DOOLCT. 16. Manapnf ESlor 
Vol. 21 OaOBER, 1942 No. I 
$25,000 St. Joseph Valley Club Gift Leads 
Local Club Campaign Sets Pace for Alumni Partici­pation in the University's Centenary Fund; Qass Rep­resentatives and Other Qubs Swinging Into Action 
Monday night, August 31, the four lay trustees of the University of Notre Dame who reside in South Bend — Messrs. Frank E. Bering, E. M. Morris, George 
L. O'Brien, and J. J. O'Brien — enter­tained the membership of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley at a dinner in the Indiana Club. 
At this dinner announcement was made of a campaign for $25,000 to be solicited from the alumni in the St. Joseph Val­ley, without publicity or outside assist­ance. Mr. E. M. Morris was made general chairman. The three other trustees be­came honorary chairmen. Mr. Bemai'd 
J. Vol! was made vice-chairman. Clar­ence Harding, president of the Club, an­nounced the formation of two teams, the Gold and Blue, under Majors Joseph 
F. Donahue and Paul M. Butler, respec­tively. Under each major, six captains were appointed, and under each captain were ten lieutenants. Each lieutenant had ten names of local alumni, so that the 1,200 names on the Club roster were distributed for personal solicitation. ' 
On Thursday, September 17, at a luncheon in the Indiana Club, President Harding announced that the goal of $25,000 had been oversubscribed. 

E. M. MOBKIS, LL.B., '06 

General Chairman, Generous Contributor 
With this outstanding achievement as precedent, the Alumni Association is proceeding confidently and enthusiasti­cally to the task of asking other Clubs to achieve this signal success in this vital phase of the Centenary. Amounts will vary, but the principle — loyalty, enthu­siasm, hard work, and a' realization of Notre Dame's needs — can be universal. 
There are many interesting and im­portant phases to the St.-Joseph VaDey campaign. Space doesnt permit details, but here are a few of the highlights: 
1.
 At the opening dinner, E. H. Mor­ris, '06, announced that $5,000 had al­ready been contributed. 

2.
 He anaounced that of the remain­ing $20,000 of the goal he would give one-half if the Club would raise the balance. 

3.
 In addition to the generosity of the. trustees from a financial standpoint, the success of the campaign was due in large measure to their continuing inter­est and liberal contribution of ^ time in attending the meetings and daily lunch­


-sy 

The Trustees' Dinner, Opening Gun of the Sncceaafnl $25,000 Caapaicn. 
eons which marked the progress of the work. 
4.
 The competitive spirit of the two teams grew as the campaign progressed. 

5.
 The revision of the Club member­ship list from the contacts of the solici­tors was revolutionary. Particularly val­uable was the compiling of a large list of men in service. 

6.
 The identification, from the results of the campaign, of those Club members who are workers, will serve the Club as an invaluable guide in further programs. 

7.
 The comparison of personal solici­tation as a result-getter against any other method, such as letter-writing or telephone call, reveals that the face-to­face solicitation leads by a veiy wide margin. 

8.
 The appeal of the War Bond as a form of gift was proved to be most effec­tive. While the objective of the campaign was a gift now, with an annual program contemplated along similar lines, pledges were accepted for future contributions, especially in the case of Bonds to be se­cured in most instances thi-ough the pay­roll deduction plan already operating with the majority of alumni. Most of the $10,000 secured by the Club from the bulk of its membership was in the form of War Bonds made out to the Univer­sity. Many have promised to add to these so that the ultimate Club contribution will undoubtedly go considerably above the ?25,000 goal. 


This campaign, as will be the cam­paigns among the other Clubs, was based on the One-Gift plan, whereby the con­tribution through the Club is credited against the 
1.
 Club quota 


2.
 Class quota of the member con­tributing 

3.
 Alumni Association gift as distinc­tive in previous years. 


In other words, the contributor gives through his Club, gives through his Class, and pays what was formerly called his "dues" with one contribution. He is listed, as a contributor, on the football ticket preference list, receives the ALUMNUS, gets his alumni card and lapel button, etc. 
Those who have already made their contribution directly through the Uni­versity, the Alumni Association or their Class, are likewise credited back to the Club for inclusion in the Club's quota for the year. 
The University is enjoying at best a 

short and rather precarious respite from the urgency of the problems which have been anticipated since last Dec. 7. 
CLARENCE HARDING, '25 
No blood, no tears, but sweat 

Enrollment this Fall is at the present time at capacity. And at the present time, with the foresight in the schedul­ing of games, it looks as though football games would be well attended. 
But the imminence of the IS-year draft law, and further restriction on transpor­tation point to the end of both these vital sources of revenue by the opening of the next semester, with no relief in sight for the duration. 
Consequently, there is no change in the urgency of the need for a successful alumni campaign to provide some sub­stitute support for Notre Dame, if the great opportunity which the present cri­sis presents to the University is to be met as Notre Dame, and Notre Dame men, want to meet it. 
Class representatives are sending out letters to members of all the Classes. Re­sponse to them should be general, in the case especially of alumni who are re­moved from Club affiliation. Between the two we want to score, by Dec. 31 of this year, 100 per cent for the 100th anniversary. 

P. C. Reilly Adds to His N. D. Benefactions 
Thirteen masterpieces of Flemish, Georgian and Spanish art arrived at the Wightman Gallery at Notre Dame in August to replace the Bendix collec­tion of tapestries that was removed re­cently and to add to the representative collection of Peter C. Reilly, LL.D. '39, of Indianapolis, member of the Board of Lay Trustees and identified in art circles both in Chicago and Indianapolis as a patron and donor of prize awards. 
Mr. Reilly has been associated with the Hoosier Salon and other movements in Fine Arts and each year since its in­ception he has donated prizes to the Salon for the encouragement of work done in Catholic colleges and secondary schools. 
Two paintings by Rubens and Van Dyck which were executed as part of a series for Queen Maria de Medici of France during the 17th century are im­portant items in the new group. Rubens and his favorite pupil. Van Dyck, worked jointly on these two large canvasses. 
Outstanding in the series also are two portraits of ladies prominent at the court of Charles II of England, the Duchess of Richmond and the Countess of Car­lisle, both of whom were celebrated beau­ties and were favorite models of the court painter. Sir Peter Lely. 
Of interest to students of Irish his­tory is an excellent portrait of Daniel O'Connell painted from life in 1831 by Richardson. 
A three quarter length study by Raphael Sanzio of John the Baptist as a youth is also in the group. Of inter­est to students of Spanish painting is another large canvas painted as a col­laborative work by Castillo and Murillo. It depicts Christ the Redeemer appear­ing to St. Ignatius Loyola. 
A rare item in the collection is the full length portrait by Sir Martin Shea, an Irish portraitist who later succeeded Sir Thomas Lawrence as president of the Royal Academy. The Countess of ErroU, who posed for the portrait, was a famous beauty in Dublin and London society during the reign of George III. 
Other items included in this notewor­thy collection presented by Mr. Reilly are: St. Peter in Despair by Giaco.nia Cavedona; the Cardinal's reception by Isabey; Mother and Child by Guerre; Squire Hallett by Francis Wheatley; the Artist's Sister by Caroll Beckwith, an American artist; Tribute to Pan by Barre; and two bronzes, Triomphe de la Verti by Godet and the Shepherd and Shepherdess by Ficcolin. 
These new gifts, together with works of art previously presented to the Notre Dame Galleries by Mr. Reilly, will be housed as a complete unit in the large South Gallery of the major central gal­leries of the University Library, to be designated the Peter C. Reilly Collection. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
f V 
With the impress of war everywhere evident, the campus on Sept. 10 began a new semester. Soon after, on Sunday, Sept. 20, the University officially opened its centennial year with a solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church and a special sermon by Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president. 
(Father O'Donnell's sermon and a resume of plans for the Centenary ob­servance will both be found elsewhere in this issue.) 
A capacity enrollment of approximate­ly 3,250, as contrasted with the summer semester enrollment of about 2,000, was on hand for this hundredth September in the University's history. For want of residence accommodations on the campus, many applicants had been turned away in August and early September. And students enrolled had, of course, given over Lyons, Morrissey, Howard and Badin Halls to the Navy, making neces­sary a doubling-up in practically every student hall except Brownson and Car­roll. Many new students were quartered temporarily in South Bend hotels; but were removed to the campus as fast as readjustments could be made. 
September this year marked, not the opening of a new schoolyear as in the past, but, more nearly, the second semes­
The Academic Proceasion and the Interior of Sacred Heart Church, with Father O'Donnell preaching, as the Centenary Opens. 

War Changes Campus as Centenary Opens 
Capacity Enrollment for Current Semester as Seniors Prepare for December Graduation; Cafeteria System Installed in all Dining Halls. 
ter of a schoolyear which began last May. "The class of 1943," which normal­ly would have been graduated next June, will finish in December, and the enroll­ment will thus be cut by upwards of 500, with little prospect of replacements for several months. If the 18-19 draft is enacted, as seems likely, the campus pop­ulation will be further cut. The current capacity enrollment is, therefore, very probably the last such "for the duration." 
Of chief student interest with the start of the new semester was the installation of the cafeteria system in all parts of the Dining Halls and, joined with this new system — to regulate the flow of hungry students at noon — the inaugu­ration of 12 o'clock classes. 
The cafeteria system, made necessary by the incoming of the Navy, was tried first with the Navy men in the west hall of the Dining Halls and proved to be so successful there through the summer that its use was immediately extended. Both students and administration are pleased with its operation now. Students are assigned to eat at various periods and to enter the Dining Hall through certain doors but are allowed consider­able leeway with regard to their arrival time at the Dining Hall. Food is for the most part eaten from divided trays 
' . 

rather than from dishes. Multiple steam tables and counters, 200 feet long, are set up in each dining hall, on the side of the hall nearest the kitchens. 
Two new courses, one in air raid shel­ters and the other a practical course in radio, have been added to the curriculum in line with the University's war pro­gram. 
The ccurse in air raid shelters, de­signed chiefly to study bomb resistant structures, is taught in the light of re­
- suits from actual experience with struc­tures in England. The classes will seek to turn out trained students who will be able to accept jobs in this field. 
The practical radio course, offered for the' first time in the spring semester, qualifies students to take examinations for an amateur operator's license. Con­sisting of radio theory and laboratory and code work, classes are open to stu­dents in all colleges. 
Governmental sponsored war work classes, similar to those which trained hundreds of nearby workers during pre­vious semesters, reopened Sept. 28. Thsse courses include accounting, personnel management, radio, foremanship and scores of technical types of war industry training. Many women are included in the classes, which are held for three 
hours each Monday evening. Rev. James 
D. Trahey, C.S.C., defense coordinator for the University, is in general charge of the classes. 
Several outstanding changes in facul­ty marked the opening of the fall se­mester. 
Henry B. Froning, dean of the Col­lege of Science, has heen granted a se­mester's leave of absence for reasons of health. Prof. Froning, a member of the faculty since 1920 and head of the de­partment of chemistry, succeeded the late Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C., as dean. Prof. Lawrence H. Baldinger will serve as acting dean of science during the semester, and Prof. Andrew J. Boyle will be acting head of the depaii;­ment of chemistry. 
A rising demand of the armed forces is taking constant toll of the University's faculty. 
Recently lost are Stephen H. Ronay, professor of English, now. an officer in the Ai-my Air Corps, and Francis J. Hanley, assistant professor of art, now, as an ensign, in naval training at Cor­nell University. 
Earlier losses from the faculty includ­ed Major Robert B. Riordan, registrar; Major Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., dean of engineering; Lt. Col. Benjamin Dubois, professor of French; Daniel J. O'Grady, professor of philosophy, now in officer training at Scott Field, HI.; John J. Fitzgerald, assistant professor of phi­losophy, and Thomas J. Stritch, associate professor of English, both now serving as naval officers. 
Dr. Joseph Caton, assistant University physician, is in Army service. Lt. Comm. 
M. T. Farrar, U.S.N., associate profes­sor of naval science and executive officer of the Notre Dame R.O.T.C, was called to sea duty during the year. 
William J. Cerney, former football coach, is a lieutenant in the Navy at Glenview, III. William P. Mahoney, track coach, is also an officer in the Navy, as are former football coaches John Druze and Joseph McArdle. 
Selective service took two instructors, William W. Arbuckle, music, and George 
M. Reichle, speech. 
Government research projects, particu­larly in science and engineering, have taken a number of men from the campus. 
George B. Collins, associate professor of physics and a pioneer in Notre Dame's work with the electrostatic generator; Edward A. Coomes, also a distinguished young physicist, and Alexander Petraus­kas, a third Notre Dame physicist of outstanding ability, are among those ab­sent in research. 
Vincent Fagan, professor of architec­ture; P. A. Guarino, instructor in elec­trical engineering; John L. Kelley, as­sistant professor of mathematics; John 
P. Nash, instructor in mathematics, and Charles Robinson, instructor in mathe­matics, are among those absent on gov­ernment work as the semester opens. . 
The Congregation of Holy Cross has also sent 14 priests to serve in the War, among them four members of the facul­ty: Rev. George J. Welsh, history; Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, religion; Rev. Ed­mund J. Murray, religion, and Rev. Rob­ert M. Woodward, philosophy. 
New members of the Congregation as­signed to the faculty of Notre Dame include Rev. Thomas E. Burke, who re­turns to teaching English after a number of years devoted exclusively to The Ave Maria and to -vvriting; Rev. William P. Lennartz, former South Bend pastor, and Rev. Paul Doherty, former assistant pas­tor in South Bend, both of whom will teach religion. Rev. William Robinson, former head of the Novitiate at Rolling Prairie, will teach philosophy. Other religion teachers are: Rev. Cletus Bachofer, Rev. Ferdinand Brown, Rev. William J. Mc-Auliffe, Rev. Charles Mahoney, Rev. Charles Sheedy, and Rev. Alfred Send. 
A few members of the faculty have retired to private business interests, among them Joseph J. Casasanta, pro­fessor of music and bandmaster, former­ly director of the University Glee Club. Prof. Casasanta began his work on the faculty immediately after his graduation in 1923. Also away from teaching this year are Prof. Homer Q. Earl, member of the faculty of the College of Law 
since 1929, and Prof. James J. Kearney, assistant professor of law since 1938. New members of the lay faculty, begin­ning work this semester are: 
W. Lee Hope, professor of music and bandmaster at the University. .Mr. Hope, a native of Hillsboro, 111., formerly served as conductor of the band at Murray State Teacher's College, Murray, Ky. He received his graduate degree from the University of Michigan. 
William H. Bennett, Ph.D., for the past 10 years instructor at Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, is now serving as assistant professor in speech at Notre Dame. Dr. Bennett, who taught English and comparative philology at Duquesne, received his A.B. degree and his Ph.D. degree at the University of Pittsburgh and his A.M. degree at Harvard. 
Arthur J. Quigley, new instructor of electrical engineering, formerly served as graduate assistant in the department. Mr. Quigley received his B.S. degree in electrical engineering at Northwestern in 1937 and his M.S. degree at Harvard in 1939. 
Eric Peterson, another former gradu­ate assistant at Notre Dame, who re­ceived his Ph.D. at the September convo­cation at Notre Dame, is now instructor in physics at the University. Peterson received his A.B. degree at Oberlin Col­lege in 1938 and his M.S. degree at Notre Dame in 1940. 
Carl C. Stevason, former industrial coordinator for the school city of South Bend and former supervisor of defense training classes in South Bend, is a new professor in engineering drawing at Notre Dame. Mr. Stevason received his 
A.B. degree at Hanover College, Ind., 




,Sfc WXimmm^^M 
im^fWr : 

The Senior Ball for the December Claw was on Sept. 18 in the Rocfcne Memorial 
and his M.S. degree in engineering at Purdue University. 
Francis F. Maxwell, who received his 

B.S. degree in physical education at Notre Dame in 1935 and his M.A. at Notre Dame in 1937, comes back from the high school in Livonia, N. Y., where he was in charge of physical education and athletics, to join the physical educa­tion faculty of the University. 
Several Community changes of special interest to alumni were announced by Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, United States provincial, in the annual obediences given out on July 27. 
Rev. John P. Lynch, prefect of reli­gion until health forced him to give up the post last spring, was granted an ad­ditional leave of absence and assigned for the next year as chaplain to the Med­ical Missionaries, Fox Chase, Philadel­phia. He is succeeded at Notre Dame by Rev. William T. Craddick, former as­sistant prefect of relig:ion, who is assist­ed by Rev. Roland G. Simonitsch and Rev. Charles Sheedy, the latter newly ordained. 
Rev. Francis W. Sullivan, former pas­tor of St. Augustine's Church for South Bend's colored population, is now pastor of St. Ignatius in Austin, Texas, and has been succeeded in South Bend by Rev. Vincent Thilman. Rev. Frank C. Brown, formerly of the University faculty, is the new pastor of St. Mary's Church in South Bend, succeeding Father Lennartz. Rev. George T. Meagher, for several years assistant pastor at Holy Cross Church, South Bend, is now teaching at the University of Portland. 
Rev. Harry Stegman, newly ordained, is secretary to the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara in the military ordinariate, re­turning to a post he held while he was a lay student and Bishop O'Hara was pre­fect of religion at Notre Dame. Rev. John 
C. Kelly, active on the campus in St. Vincent de Paul work for many years, is chaplain of Lee Memorial Hospital, Dowagiac, Mich. Rev. Francis E. Gart­land, former prefect of religion, is chap­lain to the C.S.C. Brothers in Cathedral High School, Indianapolis. Rev. John J. Haley, assistant prefect of religion in 1941-42, is the new chaplain of St. Charles Home for Boys, Wauwatosa, Wis., replacing Father Thilman. 
Several former professors at the Uni­versity have returned after serving in other capacities within the Congregation. Rev. Francis T. Maher is back from the University of Portland to reside in the Community House, and Rev. James J. Quinlan, who was chaplain at Cathedral High Schol, Indianapolis, is likewise at the Community House and is also serv­ing with the home missions, as is Rev. John J. Reynolds who was at St. Ed­ward's University. Rev. WiUiam J. Lyons is back to teach in Holy Cross Seminary, Notre Dame. 
Rev. George J. Harr, long a popular professor and rector at Notre Dam^ is teaching in his major field, theology, and serving as confessor at the Congregation novitiate. Rolling Prairie, Ind., near South Bend. 

Events of Centenary Annoimced 
Msgr. Sheen to Preach at Pontifical Mass on Nov. 26. 
A solemn Mass of the Holy Ghost on Sunday, Sept. 20, formally launched the program of the Centenary Year of the University. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, delivered the sermon at the Mass, which was sung by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice­
. president and general chairman of the Centenary. Father O'Donnell announced the beginning of the series of academic and religious observances which will cel­ebrate the completion of Notre Dame's first hundred years. 
Further events to mark the Centen­ary, announced by Father Cavanaugh, will include a solemn pontifical Mass on Nov. 26 by Most Rev. John F. NoU, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne, in the presence of Most Rev. Joseph E. Ritter, D.D., bishop of Indianapolis, and other digni­taries and prominent clergymen of the State and Congregation. This date, which falls on Thanksgiving Day, marks the actual anniversary of the arrival of Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C, and his Brother companions at the present site of Notre Dame. A eulogy on the founders of the University will be delivered on that day by Rt. Rev. Monsignor Fulton 
J. Sheen, D.D., outstanding author, ora­tor and radio preacher, who received an honorary LL.D. and delivered the bacca­laureate sermon in 1941." 
The Centenary Medal will be unveiled and blessed by Bishop Ritter, immediate­ly follo\ving the Mass. Bishop's Bitter's see now includes Vincennes, Ind., which was the see in 1842 that included land now occupied by the University. The Centenary Medal has been designed and sculptured by Eugene Kormendi, Buda­pest artist and sculptor, who has been working at Notre Dame since Septem­ber, 1941. Following the unveiling cere­monies, a special prayer will be offered at the grave of Father Sorin and the six Brothers who accompanied him at the time of the founding of the University. 
During the winter there will be a ser­ies of meetings of learned societies, al­tered considerably from the original program by the war conditions. However, sectional meetings of many of the na­tional organizations will proceed with meetings at Notre Dame, subject to fur­ther restrictions on housing, transporta­tion and other facilities. 
Plans for the Spring of 1943 include a gala music festival, part of the annual music week program. This program will be under the chairmanship of Bev. James Connerton, C.S.C Summer festivities will be under the tentative program includ­ing a major Centenary reunion program by Sisters of the various Orders who have attended the summer sessions of the University since they began in 1918 until the present war curtailed their at­tendance. A series of lectures, in large part by the distinguished educators and literary figures among the Sisters them­selves, will contribute to the occasion. Plans not yet perfected indicate a pag­eant as one of the features of the pro­gram. 
In the first week of September, 1943, the Centenary will draw to a climax with conferences on the University and prob­lems of the era after the war. Leading scholars of this country and outstanding educators and statesmen will be invited to participate in formulating an out­standing workable .contribution by Notre Dame to the post-war reconstruction. 
The Commencement exercises of Sep­tember, 1943, will officially end the Cen­tenary Year, in the presence of leaders attending the conferences and other dig­nitaries of the many fields of social, po­litical, cultural and spiritual life which the University has embodied in its hun­dred years of existence. 
Conunenting on the plans. Father O'Donnell said, "Hany details are of course yet to be settled. Notre Dame, as always, will conform to the wishes of the Government. War regulations will be strictly observed." 
Midshipman School Starts 
Noifie ^a#we Booki. 

Two New Buildings Under 
Construction 
On Oct. 5 the naval Indoctrination school at Notre Dame became a full-fledged training school for midshipmen, known oflScially as the Naval Reser\-e Midshipman School. 
The change means that, instead of spending a maximum of 30 days at No­tre Dame, the naval trainees will spend approximately four months here and will then be eligible for commissioning as ensigns and assignment to posts of active duty. Pi'eviously, the trainees were sent to either Chicago or New York for their final three months of training. 
Enlargement of the scope and res­ponsibilities of the local naval station is generally regarded as an honor for the University and as a recognition of its continuing close cooperation with the Navy. The new status is likewise a trib­ute to the excellent training work ac­complished here under Capt. H. P. Bur­nett, U.S.N., and his staff. 
Two hew buildings are under con­struction on the campus to meet the re­quirements of the midshipman school. One is a large drill hall extending out from the rear of the gj^mnasium into Cartier Field and into what used to be the baseball diamond. The other is a combination classroom and office build­ing which is rapidly nearing completion on the former parking lot to the rear of the Rockne Memorial Building. Both buildings are being erected by the Navy. 


 on Campus. 
To conduct the more numerous cour­ses of the midshipman school, the staff of naval officei-s on the campus has been, and is being, greatly enlarged. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, presi­dent of the University, hailed the an­nouncement as an honor for Notre Dame. 
Father O'Donnell said that "the des­ignation of Notre Dame as a midship­men's school will find a continuing and intensifying of the fine relations that have existed between Notre Dame and the navy since the inauguration of the naval R. O. T. C. unit on the campus last September, and the introduction of the V-7 course last April. 
"The change in status, and the num­ber of midshipmen contemplated, will not necessitate any change in the pres­ent concurrent program of the academic side of the University. Housing, dining room facilities, and courses in the five colleges will continue on the same basis as in the spring and summer semesters. 
"The success of the Navy's program operating in conjunction with the inde­pendent academic program of the Uni­versity has been so marked during the indoctrination school, and the coopera­tion between the Navy, the University and the students under each has been so readily given, that we look forward with confidence to the continuing success of the new program," Father O'Donnell concluded. 
Summer after Summer. By Richard Sullivan. New York: Doubleday, Doran and Company. $2.50. 
For a number of years a good many readers at Notre Dame and among the alumni have been following the work of Mr. Sullivan, '30, with increasing inter­est, as it has appeared regularly in sev-. eral of the country's better magazines. For all of these readers it was no sur­prise to learn that one of his stories was selected for reprinting in the 0. Henry Memorial Atuard Stories of 1942. For the same readers, and no doubt for many others, it will be especially good news that Mr. Sullivan's first novel, Stinimer after Summer, has just been published by Doubleday, Doran in New York. The ALUMNUS takes special pleasure in re­porting the publication of the book, for Mr. Sullivan is an Assistant Professor in the Department, of English at Notre Dame. 
Summer after Summer is the story of an average American Catholic family, and particularly of Eddie Nails, the father. The story is simple but often vivid and powerful. It relates the wor­ries, the troubles, the hopes, the joys that make up the daily round of family life. More especially, it revolves around the birth of the second child of Eddie and Anna Nails. In giving the event of birth the central and thematic place in the novel, Mr. Sullivan pro\'ides a na­tural and adequate basis for all the emo­tional strength which the novel achieves, and, more especially, without resorting to any didactic devices, he gives a sig­nificance to his story which the Catholic reader will readily appreciate. 
Against a background of human weak­ness and human strength, of anxieties and little pleasures, this central con­cern of the hovel grows steadily vdih a firmly controlled dramatic force and a remarkable degree of unifying effect. The fact of birth absorbs all other in­terests in the family, assuming its full, tremendous significance as the story pro­ceeds. In the light of the new child's ex­istence the purpose and the meaning of the parents' lives together become clear­er and deeper. The daily anxieties and the stem necessities of comparative pov­erty are softened, even while they are increased and made more stern and real, by the birth of the child. The little clashes and bickerings of the parents are smoothed out by their new bond of 

Father O'Donnell Was Host on Aug. 25 as Rear Admirals Randall Jacobs and anxiety and responsibility. Even their John Downes Inspected the Navy Personnel at Notre Dame. (Continued on Page 39) 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




For God and Country— 
A Gentury of Consecrated Service 
By REV. HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C. President of the University 
The Sermon at the Solemn Mass of Sept. 20, ..1942, Marking the Opening 
"Let us now praise men of renown, and our fathers in tlieir generation." 
— Ecclesiasticus — 44 :1 

One hundred years ago, come Nov. 26, there stood on the snow-swept shores of St. Mary's Lake a group of men filled with courage and hope and faith. They had just made an 11-day journey by ox­cart from Vincennes, during which they braved the severity of one of the worst winters in the history of Indiana. But they were uplifted spiritually as they viewed the scene of their future labors. They had little of this world's goods, but they had an abiding confidence in the Mother of God. They had come to carve out of the wilderness a shrine of educa­tion dedicated to Our Lady. 
The superior of that little band of religious was the Eev. Edward Sorin, 
C.S.C. He and the seven Brothers of the Congregation of Holy Cross who came with him had left their native France in response of the urgings of Bishop Helandiere, of Vincennes, who sorely needed teachers and missionaries. They opened two schools for boys at Vin­cennes, but a year later when the Bishop offered them the tract of land where Notre Dame now stands. Father Sorin accepted the offer. The Bishop stipulated that they open a novitiate and a college within two years. Sorin, young, vigorous, and possessed of rare vision, set out at once on his noble apostolate. Despite hardships that would have seemed insur­mountable to one of less courage, he founded a college in the allotted time. 
One hundred years! A long time in 

' the life of man, but a short span in the life of a university. Yet, though Notre Dame is young in years, her legacy of Truth has its source in the foundation of the apostolic college on the Galilean shore, and is supported by the Divine command: "Going therefore, teach ye all nations." Its essence is that man is made in the image of God, and that knowledge of God is the beginning of wisdom. This is the rock upon which Notre Dame is built. Our philosophy emphasizes the de­velopment of the ivhole man, in order that he may live well here on earth, and then be happy with his Heavenly Father for all eternity. 
One hundred years! A long time in the life of man, but a short span in the life of a university! But what a change since Father Sorin first saw the log cabin in the woods to the south of' St. Mary's Lake, in which were a chapel and one living room. What a change there has been from Old College, still standing as a reminder of our humble origin. Now, more than 45 buildings on our 1500-acre campus are devoted to the five colleges and the Graduate School. The number of courses offered has been multiplied many times over, and the faculty is larger than the student-body was only 35 years ago. Thirty thousand young men have been trained under the Golden Dome. 
Notre Dame changes, but remains for­ever the same. Notre Dame still empha­sizes the discipline of the spiritual, the intellectual, and the moral. Here you will always find applied the first principles fi'om which all true development pro­ceeds. This is still the Notre Dame of Father Sorin and his worthy successors 
— Corby, Thomas E. Walsh, Zahm, Mor­rissey, John W. Cavanaugh, Bums, Charles O'Donnell, of Arthur Stace, Joseph Lyons, Timothy Howard, Colonel Hoynes, and all the others who, by the grace of God, wrought the miracle of Alma Mater. Their selfless devotion to the ideals of Christian education keeps their memory forever green in the hearts of every son of Notre Dame.- "Let us now praise men of renown, and our fathers in their generation." 
One hundred years! A long time in the life of man, but a short span in the life of a University! But Notre Dame has seen a young republic, an experiment among nations, become a world power. She has seen our national heritage, bom in struggle and sacrifice, imperiled by a civil war, come forth stronger than ever. Now our beloved country is again fight­ing for its life. 
As in the Civil War, the Spanish­

 of the-Notre Dame Centennial Year. 
American War, and the first World War, Notre Dame has placed- her facilities at the government's disposal. We have'wel­comed the Navy to the campus. Notre Dame men — alumni, priests, faculty, and students — are in the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps, fighting for God and country. Notre Dame's characteristic re­sponse to the call of patriotism is in the spirit of Sorin himself, whose first act upon landing on the.'^e shores was to fall on his knees, and with deep emotion kiss the soil in token of adoption. All his life he gave to his foster country a devotion second only to his love of God and His Blessed Mother. 
Our Centenary Year is overcast .by a war even more terrible than World War 
I. More than nine months have passed since the wanton attack on Pearl Harbor. Our armed forces are in all parts of the world. We are geared for war, perhaps for a long war, and, as always, Notre Dame is. doing her part. Why are we fighting? What is our objective? Singu­larly, thousands of Americans still seem to be in a daze about the war and are asking these questions. Yet President Roosevelt gave us the answer in his message to Congi-ess last January: 
"Our enemies are guided by brutal cynicism, by unholy contempt for the human race. We are inspired by S faith that goes back through the ages to the first chapter of the book of Genesis — 'God created'man in Jiis own image.' We on our side are striving to be true to that divine heritage. We are fighting, as our fathers have fought, to uphold the doctrine that all men are created equal in the sight of God." ,j 
That is the purpose, reduced to itssim­plest terms. We are fighting for the God-given rights of man. Our homes and altars are at stake. Make no mistake about that. Let us get out of the state of indecision- and unite to protect our heritage. 
Our military leaders see clearly what has been obscure to many of us who have stayed at home. They know that the choice is between paganism and 
Christianity.' Religion dominates their lives and motions. You may rememher that a few months ago the name of Ad­miral Nimitz was on everyone's lips be­cause of the blows our Navy had dealt the Japanese fleet in the Pacific. The spirit of the man is shown in a letter I received from him during that time. "I am sure," he wrote, "that . . . prayer has been very eifective, and that Mary, the Star of the Sea, was present to guide our battle forces in the vicinity of Mid­way during the first week in June." Nor is the Admiral the only leader who is keenly aware of the power of God. Per­haps you will recall General MacArthur's message from Melbourne commending American war workers. The hero of Cor­regidor cabled: "This mighty war pro­duction comes from free men who treas­ure individual liberty as a God-given inalienable right." And let me tell you an instance of this dependence on God that comes close to home. A few days ago I received a letter from a Notre Dame alumnus who is now an army offi­cer. Imagine my surprise when I read the heading, "Somewhere in Africa." His letter illustrates what the man in the ranks is thinking: 
"A Protestant private from Missouri told me last week that he thought the whole trouble with the world was that people had forgotten 'all about the One above.' If he ever got back to his home tovm he was going to get up in his church and tell them that they should spend a lot more time in prayer. . . . Wars will happen, and this one \vill make the others look like pink tea parties. It's tough being separated from wife and relatives and friends — God knows for how long. But it's God and country." 
These are the convictions of the men who are fighting for us. Have we been supporting them as we should? Do we see as clearly as they do? I think not. Strange things have been happening in our national life since December, 1941, and they must be stopped before they cause disaster. A peculiar nomenclature is rampant. It is characterized by a bit­terness and hate that is not helping the war effort. Of course, a diversity of opin­ion is natural in a democracy, but name-calling and other forms of abuse should have no place in America. Healthy, con­structive criticism — yes; but bigotry in any form — no. It is not Christian. What does it matter now who was for whom or against whom before Pearl Harbor, or who was right and who was wrong? The die is cast. We must be Americans, and stand solidly with the Commander­in-Chief and Cong^ress in the course they chart for the nation. Let us be realists. We have no guarantee that we will win this war. We could lose it, or it may end in a stalemate, which is the same as de­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
feat. Winning the war will take our money, men, natural resources — and something more. 
To restore unity; to bring the nation to its senses; to stem the tide of dan­gerous movements from within that pro­voke the anger of God; to bring added blessings to our military forces, this na­tion must return to the faith of the founding fathers, whose rule of life was "In God we trust." America must get down on its knees and ask Almighty God to help us and our allies in this grave crisis of Christianity. There have been other times in our history when a public proclamation was so ordered; there was never a time as urgent as this. 
Mindful of the problems that confront our courageous Commander - in - Chief; ever eager to manifest our loyalty to our Christian heritage; ever responsive to our duty of supporting our armed forces in this noble crusade; we respectfully request you. President Roosevelt, to set aside for the nation a day of prayer and fasting so that we may petition God, through the mediation of Christ, His Son, to support your arm in directing us to victory, and to that peace "with justice and charity" that Pope Pius XII urges upon the victors. For if God is with us in a righteous cause, no man can defeat us. The prayer of the humble nation, like the prayer of the humble man, pierces the clouds. 
Today's confusion is the penalty we must pay for generations of antagonism toward religion. Millions of our fellow citizens profess no formal religion, and millions admit no belief in God. Deny God and the fundamental liberties which American democracy was founded to pro­tect, and for which our armies are fight­ing, are automatically destroyed. Deny God and man no longer has any integrity as man; the family is no longer sacred; the state is the master, and not the ser­vant, of man. That is the road to ruin that other nations have followed. It is the road that looms up before us unless the United States wins back its national heritage, which is essentially Christian. The strength of that heritage has been drained, not by attacks from without, but by the sapping tactics of a group of secularists from within — the fruits of a false education — who deny God, the source of all truth. Unless we get back to God, the most glorious triumph of our armed forces vnU be a pyrrhic victory, and there can be no lasting peace. 
Members of the Freshman Class, you are enrolled at Notre Dame at a time when your future is pretty well deter­
mined for you. You have twa duties. Sooner or later, in all probability, you will be called to arms. But your duty as an American and a Christian does not await your induction, nor is it confined to being a good soldier. Your immediate duty — one might call it a concurrent duty — is to help to restore a true ap­preciation of our national heritage. 
Here at Notre Dame, under the accel­erated program which, with-some modi­fications, is here to stay, you will be trained in mind and heart for that task. Make the most of the opportunities af­forded you in this environment hallowed by the early missionaries. Cultivate a strong spiritual sense by taking part in the' religious program characteristic of Notre Dame. Develop your intellect by a discipline of study, and strengthen your will by learning the value of fortitude. Do these things and you will always be prepared to meet the Great Teacher, smiling! 
Assembled here in this church built with strong and loving hands as an act of consecration to the Sacred Heart, buoyed up with a hope based on faith which enabled the Founder and his com­panions to fell the murmuring pines and hemlocks as a clearing for this edifice and the infant university; inspired by the heroic deeds of our forebears of Holy Cross as we review the progress of this temple of learning, we pledge anew our allegiance to God and Country in closing one epoch and beginning another. 
What though the storm clouds of a global war confront us! What though the trials and difficulties of materialism and secularism beset us! What though the enemy from within or without at­tempts to destroy us! We are unafraid. We are undaunted. We accept any chal­lenge that error hurls ag:ainst Truth. And as we ofiicially open our Centenary Year, we renew our pledge of loyalty to the Mother of God in those memorable words of Sorin as he viewed in retro­spect his noble consecration to her on the snow-swept banks of the lake one hundred years ago: 
"From that moment, I remember not a single instance of a serious doubt in my mind as to the final result of our exertions, unless, by our unfaithfulness, we should change God's mercy into an­ger; and upon this consecration, which I felt was accepted, I have rested ever since, firm and unshaken, as one sur­rounded on all sides by the furious waves of a stormy sea. but who feels him­self planted immovably upon the move­less Tock." 
"Let us now praise men of renown, and our fathers in their generation!" 


The U. S. Navy Shares the Campus 
But, You Ask, How Has the Navy's Coming AfFected the Campus Comers I Used to Know? Here !s the Answer. 

"Apprentice seaman Callahan report­ing for duty, sir," a tanned youth in civilian clothes snaps to a serious khaki-clad naval officer seated behind a desk obstructing the doorway of one of the first floor rooms in spacious Lyons Hall. 
Lieut. L. D. Reaves, one of the dental officers in Howard Hall, works on ap­prentice seaman R. T. Behrendt of New­ark, N. J. Assisting, is L. E. Beard, pharmacist mate, third class. 
"Callahan, you will be stationed for the next month's training in 322 on the third deck of Morrissey Hall. Report at once to that hall for your sheets and blankets." 
"Aye, Aye, Sir." 

Thus, another class of naval trainees, all college graduates, arrive on the Notre Dame campus to undergo inten­sive training, leading eventually to the rank of ensign in the Naval Reserve. 
This naval training course at the Uni­versity was inaugurated in April and has been highly publicized from coast to coast. It is felt, however, that alumni and old students of the University would be interested in understanding more about one phase of the program affecting them; namely, "how has the naval program af­fected Notre Dame as I know it." It is with this thought in mind that we take you on a tour of your campus, attempt­ing to point out the various changes af­fected since the influx of the men in white or blue. 
After parking your car in the parking lot, you wonder if the uniformed men seen heading east in marching formation quickly that they are a platoon of the naval trainees on their way to the Navy drill field east of the stadium for a few-hours of rigorous physical training. Such training includes never-ending exercise programs such as push-ups, pull-ups, ob­stacle races—during which trainees race against time and obstacles placed in their paths—physical contact games and many other exercises designed to produce toughened physical specimens. 
Let's go over to the Caf for a bite to eat before continuing our tour. One pla­toon of naval trainees is just coming out of the Dining Hall. Notice the regular cafeteria style employed by the boys, eliminating the need for waiters required in dining hall style. Notice also that the trainees aren't given any choice as re­gards food (but still they're enthusiastic about the food). Although the dining hall style was given a try for the trainees, it was found impractical, and the cafeteria installed in the west dining hall. (Note: the Notre Dame students were also con­
verted to the caf system beginning with 
the fall semester). 
Before we go on, come on downstairs 

here in the dining hall and see the naval 
trading post established for use of the 
trainees in order to eliminate the rush 
on the Notre Dame Caf. The trainees 
can buy almost anything they need— 
from tooth paste to candy and cigar­
ettes—^without leaving the dining hall. 
Remember when we used to buy our 
tickets for the Senior Ball behind that 
counter? 
Perhaps you are wondering just how the presence of the V-7 group on the campus aifects classroom capacities at Notre Dame? The Navy has effected a schedule of formal classroom work so as to occupy rooms in the Commerce and Law buildings, as well as using Wash­ington Hall, free from conflict with Uni­versity class schedules. In addition, the religious atmosphere of the Morrissey Hall chapel has been transferred to the 
intellectual atmosphere of a classroom. 
are men who have recently joined Father Commander Joseph E. Malcomson, U.S.N., checks blood pressure and pulse of Ryan's hiking club, but it is pointed out Robert D. Grimm of Carmel, N. Y,, in the former Howard Hall chapel. 
Perhaps the Rockne Memorial field house has been erected since your time. If so, our stop there will serve a double purpose—^that of giving you your initial view of the Memorial as well as showing the naval activities in that building. The chief use made by the Na\-y of this build­ing is for swimming instruction and phy­sical toughening of the trainees. Even this two-hour-a-day instniction and prac­tice in the pool, however, does not bar the Notre Dame student from the pool. It is stressed by naval authorities that stu­dents are free to use the pool at any time. 
This is as far as we may go freely inside buildings without a pass from the Navy, so Ensign E. C. DoUard, public relations officer at the naval training school, has hindly consented to accom­pany us through the rest of the school. Here he comes now, out of his oCfice in the first deck of the Lyons Hall anne.x, formerly occupied by various bachelor professo'.-s of the University. Going down the stairs into the basement chapel of Lyons Hall, one of the most impressive features of the entire training school comes gloomily into view. It is down here in that atmospheric chapel that trainees daily practice working with gas masks. Reminding one of a modern air raid shelter, the former chapel is also used as rehearsal spot for the local Navy choir. That explains the piano in the far end of the room. Back up the stairs and across the walk into the main part of Lyons we find company and battalion of­fices, where ti-ainees first come upon arrival at Notre Dame. The rest of the hall is occupied by living quarters for the men. 
I suppose while we are here, you would probably like to see just what a typical navy room looks like in comparison with the ones we used to live in. Well, here we have a typical single room, with a double-decked bunk, desk and lockers. Men, who are advised to bring merely the bare essentials for a navy life, usual­ly ari'ive with just a suitcase containing everything needed for the stay. Although the men are not prohibited from bring­ing radios, regulations regarding their use are sufficiently strict so as to make such a commodity highly inadvisable. The same is true of an automobile. Here you note that double rooms are similar except they contain two double bunks. 
Morrissey, as you can see, has changed from a luxurious sophomore hall, noted for its swanky lobby and fireplace, into a serious business-like center for the Navy. It is here in the lobby that the s\vitchboard for the branch telephone ex­change of the naval training station is located. It is also here that blankets, sheets, etc., are stored, making it neces­sary for every trainee upon his arrival to acquaint himself with this famed hall before many bells have been struck. Mor­rissey Hall's chapel also has felt the effect of the Na^'y's arrival and now takes on the appearance of a regular classroom. The rector's quarters in Mor­rissey, as well as in the rest of the navy halls have been converted into officers' quarters. 
Operator Sarah Craft in Morriuey 
Howard Hall, long regarded as a fav­orite junior hall, now houses the life-line of the entire naval training school. It is here that many of the better doctors of the country provide the "best possible medical care for the trainees. Here on the first deck across from the officers' quarters are three former student rooms containing up-to-date dental equipment and manned by the Navy's staff of com­petent dentists. Another former student room in the same row has been devoted to a "sick bay." The training station also has full cooperation from the Notre Dame infirmary and from St. Joseph's hospital in South Bend. No, the Howard Hall chapel did. not survive; for it is here that incoming trainees are examined to determine if they measure up to naval requirements. Doctors are on twenty-four hour call in Howard Hall. 
Finally, before you go, let's take a look at historic old Badin Hall. Badin, the latest of the University residence halls to be devoted to the Navy, now houses a naval commissary in the old Badin recreation room. Badin Bog has been largely devoted to a Navy forma­tion field, although sandlot sports still reign. Yes, and the front door of the hall has been reopened for the first time in numerous years. Ten o'clock taps finds sentries marching serenely throughout 
the entire school—^both on the quadran­
gles and on each deck of each hall. 
Swinging back over toward the park­ing lot to bid you farewell, note the use being made by the Navy of the old park­ing lot east of the Stadium. It is here that trainees do most of their drilling and partake in physical training. Obsta­cle races, formations and toughening up exercises may be seen in this field con­tinually. Just west of this field across the road and in the shadow of the Sta­dium, the trainees are taught the wig­wag system of signalling. 
Well, pal, you've just about seen the school as it is today with the presence of the Navy. Say "hello" to everyone for me and let us hear from you soon. So Long.—Raymond J. Donovan, '42 
CENTENARY LAETARE MEDAL 
Notre Dame's Centenary Laetare Medal, the 60th award to this annual prize for outstanding Catholic lay achievement, was presented to the 1942 recipient. Miss Helen Constance White, in Madison, Wis.,' on Saturday, Sept. 19, at a private dinner. 
Miss White, national president of tlie American Association of University Women, professor of English in the University of Wisconsin, and well-known author and lecturer, was announced on Laetare Sunday in the spring as the selection for this distinction. 
Paul R. Byrne, librarian of the Uni­versity, made the presentation of the Medal to Miss White. 


THREE MORE CHAPLAINS 
Three more priests of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross recently left to take up their duties as chaplains with the armed forces. This brings to a total of 14 the members of the United States province of the Congregation who are in governmental service. 
Those who left recently include Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, assistant professor of religion at the University of Notre Dame, and Rev. John J. Harrington and Rev. Thomas E. Hewitt, members of the Holy Cross mission band. All three priests received Army commissions. 
Members of the Congregation already serving include Rev. Andrew J. Mul­reany, post chaplain in New Orleans; Rev. Patrick R. Duffy, with the Na\'y in the Pacific; Rev. Harry F. Stegman, secretary to Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, D.D., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy; Rev. Robert W. Woodward, Rev. Joseph D. Barry, Rev. George J. Welsh, Rev. Edward R. Fitzgerald, Rev. Ed­mund J. Murray, Rev. Francis Briden­stine, and Rev. Joseph M. Kmiecik, all of whom are serving with units of the armed forces all over the world. 

First Afternoon Mass Feature of Summer 
The first summer semester in the his­tory of the University produced another outstanding inauguration as the first afternoon Mass in Notre Dame's one hundred years was celebrated in Sacred Heart Church on Aug. 8 at 4:45 o'clock by Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran, C.S.C, who was to leave shortly to became an Army chaplain. 
Four naval trainees were among the nine young confirmees receiving confir­mation from Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., auxiliary bishop of the Army and Navy, following' the Mass. The Mass was made possible (Commun­ion being distributed to naval trainees only) by the dispensation recently grant­ed by Pope Pius XII. Afternoon Mass was continued for some weeks after­wards, — as long as the Navy schedule of duties permitted. 
Students attending the summer semes­ter, who numbered only 2,016 in con­trast with capacity enrollment of around 3,200, enthusiastically received a double-barreled entertainment program on July 
2,016 Students Attend First Summer Semes­ter; Music, Drama and Interhall Athletic Competition Stand Out in Campus Program. 
22 as Prof. Cecil Birder and Rev. Mat­thew Coyle, C.S.C, collaborated in pre­senting a Gilbert and Sullivan extrava­ganza, "Trial By Jury" and an anthol­ogy of famous Shakespearean and mod­ern dramas, both on the same program. The anthology, carried out as a television program and entitled "Broadcast 223," was under the direction of Father Coyle, while Professor Birder produced the light operetta. 
One of the outstanding activities of the summer, the "All-Star Grid Poll," resulted in the placing of seven Notre Dame men on the squad which lost to the Bears in Chicago on Aug. 28. Juz­wik and Crimmins led in their respec­tive positions, thus gaining starting berths, while Bernie Crimmins also re­ceived the added distinction of being elected captain by his teammates. The poll on the campus was instituted by the Scholastic, which for the first time in history was published during the summer. 
"Cooperation Week," a unique feature during the summer semester, was de­signed primarily to bring to the front a better and more evident spirit of co­operation among the students. Highlights of this week included "Cooperation Night," during which two hours of old time rough and tumble games in the gym was featured, and a special sum­mer presentation of the annual K. of C. vaudeville show. Dave Curtin of Roches­ter, N. Y., served as master of ceronon­ies and. first prize went to imitator Paul 

O'Connell, of Newark, N. Y. 
Musical presentations for the summer included three campus concerts by the glee club under the direction of Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke and a series of band concerts which featured a different guest conductor each time. 
An intensive program- of interhall sports, conducted under the direction of Dr. John A. Scannell, head of the Phy­sical Education Department, was.a no­table feature of the summer and aroused tmprecedented student interest and par­ticipation. About two-thirds of the stu­dents on the campus took-.-part in one or more of the following: tennis,.volleyball, Softball, baseball, golf and swimming. 
An art exliibition of student paintings went on display early in August and served as a special feature of the first fall Commencement in September. The exhibition, the first of its kind to be held at the University, included 69 pieces of work selected from more than 125 pieces executed by juniors and seniors. 
Two admirals of the U. S. Navy, Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs, chief of the Navy's personnel, and Rear Admiral John Downes, commandant of the Ninth Naval district, were guests of the Uni­versity on Aug. 25 as they inspected the naval trainees of the University. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, served as host. , . 
The first fall Commencement in the history of the University was held Sept. 3, producing a graduation class of 128. Seventy-five of these received graduate degrees, while 53 received baccalaureate degrees. Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, associate editor of The Ave Mariail'de­livered the address, while Father OT)on­nell presented the degrees. 
Bithop O'Hara Confirms a Naval Trainee on August 8 as Fathers Powers, Stegman and Simonitsch assist. 
Inter-American Meeting at N. D. 
Latin - American Representatives Discuss Current Problems with N. D. Scholars. 
The "good neighbor" policy that caused Notre Dame to print a catalog in Span­ish in 1883; that followed it up with others, and that has dotted South Amer­ica with Notre Dame alumni j the inter­est that took Kev. John A. Zahm, C.S.C, up the Amazon and across the Andes and brought to the English language through his pen some of the best early writing on South America; the zeal that produced a Spanish year book for the thriving Latin-American student organ­ization and alumni in 1920—^this same spirit found Notre Dame both a logical and a willing and congenial host to the Inter - American Seminar sponsored on the campus on Aug. 31 by the N.C.W.C. 
The Notre Dame meeting, bringing to­gether an outstanding group of repre­sentatives of the various countries of Latin America, and an equally diversi­fied and brilliant group of Notre Dame faculty members versed in the-problems of the Western Hemisphere, was. one of five held throughout the country under the N.C.W.C, cooperating with the State Department and the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. 
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, whose South American background fresh­ened Latin-American interest at Notre Dame and Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., bishop of Fort Wayne and editor of Our: Sunday Visitor, were guests at the sem­inar, in addition to the distinguished visiting del^ation. 
The Latin - American representatives were: Most Rev. Miguel de Andrea,­D.D., auxiliary bishop of Buenos Aires; Most. Rev. Miguel D. Miranda, D.D., bishop of Tulancingo (Mexico); Very Rev. Felix Restrepo, S.J., Rector Mag­nifico of the Pontifical University of Javeriana (Colombia); Rev. Felix Bo-' tero, rector of the Catholic University Bolivariana (Colombia); Rev. Leo Har­kins, C.SS.R., of Buenos Aires; Dr. Jose Coelho and Dr. Heraclito Pinto, of Rio de Janeiro and Dr. Armand Camara, of Rio Grande du Sul; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Os­car Larson, Catholic U. of Chile; Rev. Benjamin Nunez, San Jose, Costa Rica; Dr. Raul Maestri, Habana, Cuba; Dr. Julio Donoso, Quito, Ecuador; Rev. An­tonio Brambila, Rev. Alfonso Castiello, SX, and Dr. Don Efrain Luna, of Mexi­co; and Dr. Don Rafael Caldera of Ca­racas, Venezuela. 
Mr. Richard Pattee of the State De­partment, accompanied the delegation and acted as interpreter. Also in the of­ficial party were: Rev. R. A. McGowan, department of social action of the N. C. 

W. C, and Edward J. Heffron and Msgr. William Carroll of the N.C.W.C. secre­tariat. 
Representing the University of Notre Dame was a group headed by Rev. Wil­liam F. Cunningham, C.S.C, director of faculty. Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, entertained the delegation at a luncheon, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice - president, represented the Univer­sity administration at the seminar ses­sions. 
Faculty members speaking at the seminar were: Dr. F. A. Hermens, Kev. Peter Forrestal, C.S.C, Dr. Waldemar; Gurian, Prof. Frank T. Flynn, and Mr. Eduardo Alcayaga. Prof. Walter Lang­ford, who teaches Spanish and Portu­guese, acted as Notre Dame's interpreter for the seminar, and also spoke on post­war problems of mutual interest. 
Other Notre Dame representatives were Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, Prof. Jose Corona, Rev. Edward Keller, C.S.C, Dean Clarence E. Manion, Dean ­James E. McCarthy, Prof. Francis E. McMahon, Rev. John A. O'Brien, Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, and Prof. Yves Simon. 
The Notre Dame seminar dealt with the contribution of Catholic universities to the solution of social, economic and political problems. 
KELLy FOR GOVERNOR 

Harry F. Kelly, '17, of Detroit, presi­dent of the Alumni Association, is the Republican candidate for governor of Michigan in the November elections. Harry is at present secretary of state of Michigan. 
SEMINARIAN DROWNED 

Hugh McGuire, C.S.C, 25 years old, of Wisner, Nebr., who was to have begun his senior year at the University on Sept. 10, was drowned in Bankson Lake, near Lawton, Mich., on Sept. 3. With other seminarians he was spending a short vacation at the Community siun­mer camp on the lake. He lost his life when he attempted to swim ashore after a sailboat in which he was riding with another seminarian overturned. Mr. Mc­Guire was one of a family of 15 children. 
The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
Mr. P. C Reilly, LL.D. '39, trustee, for the Art Galleries of the University. Fourteen oU paintings and two bronze statuettes. (See Page 4, this issue.) 
Mrs. George Schell and Mr. William B. Chawgo, '31, of Chicago, for the Department of Architecture of the University. The 
•personal library of the late George J. Schell, eminent Chicago architect. Anonymous, for the Rev. Julias A. Nieuwland Foundation $250 Mr. Harry F. O'Melia, Jersey City, for the Outdoor Advertising Foundation of the University. .„ „ 250 Anonymous 100 Mr. C. A. Breitung, Ada, Okla., for the Dom Gregory Student Loan Fund 100 Mr. Romy Hammes, South Bend, for beautification of the Dillon HaU Chapel : _. 100 Mr. B. A. Seymour, Detroit, for the Fund for Needy Students 100 
Lieut. (j.g.) Bernard J. Donoghue, U.S.N.R., '32, Washington, D.C, for the Labor Relations Prize Essay of 1942
 25 

For the Centenary: From the Rev. Gerald M. C. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, superior of Seminary of Our Lady of Holy Cross, North Easton, Mass., as the Seminary's gift to the University on the occasion of the Centenary: Hand bound and illuminated copy of Levan­gile de L'Enfanee de Notre Seigneur Jesus Christ, by CatuIIe Mendez. This rare volome is one of a limited edition of fiftyand has been placed in the University Library. 
(REV.) HUGH O'DONNELL, C.S.C, President of the University. 
By BILL REyNOLDS, '43 




ATHLETICS 
(This story was written just before the 7-7 tie with Wisconsin on Sept. 26. The results of that game may very well alter substantially some of the statements made here, especially as to ranking of players.—Eds.) 
The eyes of the nation are turned toward Notre Dame, where the Fighting Irish undertake one of the toughest schedules ever carded in collegiate foothall. Each opponent on the 11-game card will be gunning for the Irish, hoping to break the string of victories that began under Frank Leahy last 
BILL REYNOLDS year . 

Before fall practice started Coach Leahy was pretty optimistic over the team's chances. (That is, if a football coach can ever be called optimistic.) But as the training grind progressed, Leahy's optimism has changed to almost tragic pessimism. Injuries and other losses cast a very dark outlook over Irish hopes. 
Looking ahead, one can easily see that the Irish will need to be the super team that Coach Leahy says they are not in order to come through with another enviable record. 
In reality, prospects look pretty bright if the injury jinx does not hit the Irish too hard and too often. The schedule must be played with a team definitely not rich in experienced reserves. There were only four sophomores who were of monogram winning calibre last year. One of them. Matt Bolger, left end, has been called into the service. The others are Bob McBride, guard; Creighton Miller, fullback; and Angelo Bertelli, left halfback. 
Bertelli's passing last season was so outstanding that Coach Leahy is basing his main offensive on the Chicago Bears type of T-formation, with Accurate An­gelo in the quarterslot, doing most of the ball-handling and passing. In moving Bertelli to quarterback, Leahy left a vacancy at left half. To fill this hole. Dippy Evans was returned to the posi­tion he played before Leahy used him at fullback last year. Creighton Miller, Evans' understudy last season,.was shift­ed into the other halfback spot, left va^ cant by Steve Juzwik's graduation. These moves left the fullback post to three sophomores, Jerry Cowhig, Jim Mello, and Corwin Clatt, who have waged a merry battle for the starting assignment. 
Graduation took a toll of five other regulars besides Juzwik. In all Coach Leahy has lost 13 of last year's 24 mon­ogram winners. Six of the eleven letter­men returning are in different positions this season. This coupled with the in­stallation of the T-formatlon means that the veterans, as well as the newcomers, are inexperienced so far as style of play is concerned. 
Adding it all together — inexperience, new system, losses, and schedule ^ it would appear that a record of six or seven victories in H starts would be excellent, according to Coach Leahy. 

JOE PETWTZ, '32 

Because his other duties, had become so nuicerous and so pressing, Joe Petntz, '32, sports publicity director of the Uni­versity, asked to be relieved of the addi­tional job of writing sports for the "Alumnus." The editors, conscions of Joe's able and valiant work for the mag­azine over the past 12 years, were reluc­tant to agree to his request, but finally gave in. 
Therefore, with bows of gratitude to Joe for his magnificent assistance, we present in this issue a new conductor of the sports department, — Joseph Wil­liam Reynolds, '43, of Asheville, N. C., also sports editor of the current "Scho­lastic." 
Player Prospects by Positions 

Left end — Bob Dove, All-American as a junior, was shifted to left gfuard in spring practice to give the team a fast downfield blocker. This left the end posi­tion open to sophomore candidates, Frank Cusick and John Yonakor. After three weeks of fall workouts Coach Leahy de­cided that Dove would be more valuable at end than at guard and so changed him back to his regular position. "Pi­geon" was already being hailed as an All-American guard when changed. Weighing 195 pounds, he is one of the fastest men on the squad, A ball play­er's player. Dove doesn't care where,he plays just so he plays. Cusick, lanky 180-pounder from Providence, R. I., had the inside track for the starting assign­ment until Dove was shifted. 
Left tackle — Lou Rymkus, Chicago senior, at present holds the job vacated by Jim Brutz, chosen most valuable player on last year's team. Lou has been bothered by a bum knee and a thigh in­jury for the last two years. If these are cured, he will prove an able replacement for the graduated Brutz. Kymkus has all the qualifications for a tackle, standing six feet, four inches at 225 pounds, and he is full of the fighting spirit that makes a real football player. There are only sophomores to spell relief for Rjrm­kus. Jim White, John (Tree) Adams and Ziggy Czarobski follow; in that order. 
Left guard -.— When Bob Dove was re­turned to his end position Bob McBride, last year's No. 2 left guard who had been filling that position again this fall, moved up to the first eleven. Standing an even six feet, and weighing 195, Mc­Bride, a junior, saw enough action last year as Bob Maddock's understudy to warrant a monogram, marty Brutz, Jink's brother, and Bemie Meter, both sopho­mores, round out the list of left, guards. 
Center — This is another position which will be the same as last year. Wally Ziemba, Tom Brock, John (Rebel) Lanahan, and Stan Kudlacz who ranked in that order last season are all back. Ziemba and Brock have both beeii plagued by knee injuries in the piast; if they are not bothered this year center will be Notre Dame's strongest positiohl Zionba, standing six feet, three inches and 'weighing 220 pounds, is an excelleiit center, both defensively and offensively'^ 
Brock, as understudy, spots Ziemba two inches and 25 pounds. Sophomore Herb Coleman, who showed up well in the spring, is the third center at this writing. 
Right guard — Last year Bernie Crim­mins was shifted to guard after playing right half in his sophomore year and fullback as a junio]\ Crimmins took to his new job in fine fashion, winning Ail-American recognition. This year Coach Leahy has shifted Harry Wright from the backfield to the right guard position. As a sophomore, Harry (The Horse) was a fullback, last year he was No. 1 quarterback. Now as a guard, he is being counted on to turn in as fine a job as he did at quarterback. His excellent showing in the spring won him the nod for the first string over Will Riordan, last year's No. 2 man who has since been called into the service. Filling out the list of candidates behind Wright are George Tobin, Pat Filley, Bill O'Conner and Dan Hecht in that order. All but Filley, a junior, are sophs. 
Right tackle — Graduation of Captain Paul Lillis, a great leader and a very steady workman, has weakened this post. However with a little experience Bob NefF, monogi-am winner in 1940 who was bothered by injuries last fall, is expected capably to fill the shoes of Lillis. The 215-pound West Virginian is one of the hardest workers on the squad. Ranking behind NeflP, in the No. 2 slot, is Luke Higgins, 210-pound New Jersey husky. Larry Sullivan, who at 205 pounds is but a mere skeleton of his foi-mer self, (Sully weighed 235 pounds as a fresh­man) and Frank Szymanski, another sophomore, complete the list. Szymanski is a made-over center. 
Right end — At 170 pounds. Captain George Murphy is the lightest man on the squad — lightest in weight only. What Murph lacks in size, he more than makes up for in fight and ability. 
"He's a wonderful boy and a great leader." 
This is Coach Frank Leahy's appraisal of the Fighting Irish captain. A home town boy who made good, Murphy was born and reared in South Bend. He is a brother of John, who earned a monogram in 1937 as understudy to Ail-American end Chuck Sweeney. Murphy started six games last year and was the number one end until John Kovatch's rugged­ness changed the picture for the final three games. Although he is captain, a senior, and one of two experienced ends on the squad. Murphy has had a fight all the way to keep his first string job out of the hands of sophomores Paul Limont, Bill Huber, and Gene Dwyer. Limont, from New Orleans, seems to have the No. 2 position pretty well in hand. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Head Coach Frank Leahy and Captain George Murphy 
Quarterback — Moving into the Irish backfield, one finds Accurate Angelo Bertelli in the all - important signal ­calling spot. The soph passing sensation of 1941 fits right into the newly installed T-fomiation. In fact, Bertelli's passing was one of the biggest reasons for Notre Dame going in for "T." Last year "Bert" completed 70 of 123 passes for a net gain of 1,027 yards; this year, with a system which uses more pass.plays, he may do even better. John Creevey, husky Detroit sophomore, and Pete Ashbaugh, reserve signal-caller last year, are both good passers and ready to fill in for Bertelli when he needs a rest. 
Left halfback — Owen (Dippy) Evans is back at his sophomore position, after an excellent year at fullback. Evans missed the spring drills and was injured in the first scrimmage of the fall and was not expected to see any action at Wisconsin. He, like Dove, has been men­tioned as a pre-season AU-American. "The Dipper," last season, led the Irish scoring parade with 67 points. A 60­minute man the last four games, he also led the team in ground-gaining. Bob Livingstone, Hammond, Ind., sophomore, was running at left half in Evans ab­sence. Tom Miller, senior who scored on the last play of last season's Illinois game, and Cammille Piccone, sophomore, should see plenty of action this fall. Tom and his brother, Creighton, are sons of Harry "Red" Miller, '10, famous football star and captain of his era, and nephews of the other Defiance, 0., Millers of Notre Dame tradition. 
Right halfback — Bill Earley, squat, blond senior from Parkersburg, W. Va., was holding down the other halfback post. The West Virginia speed merchant is the second shoi'test man on the roster, but his nimble feet and fiery play make him a very valuable aid to the Irish. Earley and Creighton Miller, second string fullback on last year's team, were waging a hot fight for the position the first few days of practice, but Miller was injured in the first scrimmage. Dick Creevy, senior, switched from left to right half this fall, and Eddie Krupa have proved very capable reserves in scrimmages. 
Fullback — The all - sophomore post. Jerry Cowhig, 205-pound line plunger from Dorchester, Mass., had the inside track when this was written. His job is far from being clinched as Jim Mello, West Warwick, E. I., and Corwin Clatt, East Peoria, 111., are pushing him all the way. No matter which of the three is in the line-up, opposing teams will know that Notre Dame is not shy at fullback. Bob David and Jim King complete the roll call. 
A Glance at Later Irish Opponents 

Stanford (Oct. 10)—Marchy Schwartz is returning to Notre Dame; as a i-ival, not as a friend. Nothing would suit Schwartz better than an Indian victory over the Ii'ish. He has 24 returning let­tennen who would like to settle an old score — the 27-10 defeat Notre Dame handed Stanford in the Rose Bowl battle of Jan. 1, 1925. LaPrade and Banducci in the line, and Cole, Frankie Albert's successor, and Fawcett, backs, will be the men to watch. 
Iowa Seahawks (Oct. 17) —After the Fliers opening game in which they tram­pled Kansas to the tune of 61-0, (the worst defeat in Jayhawk grid history) it looks as though Bernie Bierman has another powerhouse team. The Seahawks have all-star material three deep in nearly every position. Included are: Matt Bolger, who won a monogram at Notre Dame as Bob Dove's understudy last sea­son; George Paskvan, former Wisconsin fullback; Judd Ringer, Minnesota, and Mai Kutner, Te.xas, starting ends in the Chicago Tribune's All-Star game; and George Benson, whom the Irish hoped they had seen the last of at Northwest­ern last fall. 
Illinois (Oct. 24) — The Irish should bring a victory home from Champaign. When Bob Zuppke pulled out he left his successor, Ray Eliot, with a quartet of good backs, Capt. Jimmy Smith, Dick Good, Don Griffin, and Myron Pfeifer, good center. Ken Cheeley, and 11 other lettermen. The lllini should have a good first team, but reserve power is untried and will pi'obably prove fatal. 
Navy (Oct. 31) — The Middies will meet Notre Dame in Cleveland with one thing in mind—Beat Notre Dame. Navy suffered unusually heavy graduation losses but Al Cameron is back to lead the Middies to victory. This will be one of the toughest games on the Irish schedule. 
Army (Nov. 7) — Notre Dame has a score to settle in Yankee stadium — the only blot on last year's unbeaten season. The Army mule will have more kick than he has had since 1935. Returning lettermen include a wealth of fine backs. 
including: Hank Mazur, Ralph Hill, Ted Lutry, Herschel Jarrell, and Jim Wat­kins. And the Kaydet line — enough said. Army is scheduled to be one of the top teams in the East. 
Michigan (Nov. 14) — The first meet­ing since 1909. The Wolverines taught Notre Dame the game of football. This time the Irish want to show them the beautiful Notre Dame stadium that foot­ball built. More than this, pupil wants to turn against teacher. Fritz Crisler's outfit will be led by signal-calling Cap­tain George Ceithaml and Tommy Kuz­ma, Harmon's very capable successor. 
Northwestern (Nov. 21) — Last year's 7-6 victory is looking slimmer as the days pass. Gone are Don Clawson and Alf Bauman, Captain Nick Burke will lead 17 returning lettermen and a host of reserves onto Notre Dame turf. Otto Graham, the Wildcat nomination for Ail-American fame, will lead the attack. 
Southern California (Nov. 28) — The Trojans get a week's rest before Notre Dame gets to Los Angeles. This factor alone may prove to be the difference be­tween "defeat and victory for the Irish. The passing attack of Sophomore Mickey McCardle, Paul Taylor, and Bob Mu-sick with sticky-fingered Ralph Heywood on the receiving end is the Trojan's big offensive dish. 
Great Lakes (Dec. 5) — Another one of those teams about which nothing defi­nite can be said, the Sailors promise one of the nation's finest teams. If the array of stars, led by Bruce Smith and Pete Kmetovic, can be kept together long enough, the Irish will meet their strongest opposition in Soldier Field, Chicago. Besides many outstanding col­lege stars, the Sailor lineup will have many ex-professional aces to go against the Irish. The line is rated one of the really great forward walls of the nation. 
NOTRE DAME SPIRIT 
By Ensign E. C. Dollard 
(This analysis of Notre Dame was written by the officer who ably handles public relations for the Navy at Notre Dame. It appeared first in the South Bend Tribune.—Brfs.; 
Dear BOB: 

Instead of sending you the Log this week I'll try and answer your question, and if a few other people see this letter, I'm sure you won't mind. 
I've told you about the navy here, but your question "What is the spirit of Notre Dame?" has me a bit stumped. But here is a try. . . . 
Notre Dame is truly a way of life. To describe it is to challenge the powers of descriptive words, at least mine. You see, Notre Dame is the mist rising from the lagoons at dawn as the spirit awak­ens and pushes the mists skyward. It's the whispering "amens" from the trees as the priests, young and old, say their morning prayers and give thanks for the things we're fighting to retain. 
Or maybe Notre Dame is the nuns, who have dedicated themselves and their lives to a cause within our cause, Christi­anity in a democracy. It might be the shadows, as they drift lazily into the corners in rooms of men whose names are now legend. They're all gone now, but the shadows and fading rays of light are the sparks of time that keep their spirits aglow in the rooms they left long ago. 
Or perhaps the spirit of Notre Dame is the grin on the face of the junior, who delights in telling the navy why he joined the marines. 
It might be the thrill of the .A.ngelus at eventide, or the face of the statue in the grotto. Perhaps it's the kind, old Brother in Washington hall, whose eyes have a way of shaking hands when he says good morning. Maybe the spirit of Notre Dame is the ancient Irish garden­er, who always has. his wife awaken him when it rains at night so he can hear God's gift to his "children," the lawns and shrubs. 
Some folks would say the spirit of Notre Dame embodies the unwritten words to the hymns the priest plays on the organ in the cathedral on quiet sum­mer afternoons, when the breeze is gone. You have a feeling it, too, stopped to listen. Maybe it's the majestic dignity of the painted windows as they wait pa­tiently for the setting sun to get behind them, each in turn, so that they may daily tell their part in the story of the Creator of all things. 
Those things belong to you and to me. Bob. You'll receive those gifts when you come here and carry them always under that spot on your tunic, reserved for medals. And youll leave this school and this earth, knowing and believing that-... 
Notre Dame is truly a way of life. 
Sincerely, BUD. 

« «
ALUMNI CLUBS 
MILITARY MEETINGS 

CAMP FORREST, TENN. 
A Notre Dame club has been organized in Tullahoma with weekly meetings being held at the Tullahoma U.S.O. Gcoree Haithcock. *39, of the U.S.O., is the promoter. 
IOWA PRE-FLIGHT SCHOOL 
Lt. J. M. ••Botts" Crowley writes from the Navy Pre-Flight School at Iowa City that one of the best Notre Dame meetings he has ever attended was semi-spontaneously gathered at the Marquette Council of the Knights of Columbus in Iowa City on Aug. 8. Hoon MuUins conceived the idea, gathered the Notre Dame men and made full arrangements with the local Knights. 
Those present included Dr. Eddie Anderson, Jim Harris and Frank Carideo, coaches at the University of Iowa: Lt. Larry "Moon" Mnllins, Ensign Henry Sciirenker and Lt. J. KL Crowley of the training school; civilians Bill Kirwan, now manager of the Iowa City Montgomery Ward store, and Dr. Bob Jackson of the Iowa State Hospital; and Pete VaagliBn of Wabash College, John "Batch" Niemiec of Bellaire, O., High School, Tom "Red" Heardcn of Green Bay, and Charley Hafron, Riley High, South Bend, all of whom were taking a civilian coaching course at the school. 
Bishop Rohlman of the diocese and several priests were also present as well as a notable array of other prominent citizens, from Iowa City and other points. 
BUFFALO 
Joieph Dnnn, '32, 64 Smallwood Drive. Sny­der, N. Y., Pres.; J. Paul Shecdy, '37, 147 Winspcar Ave., Sec 

The club held its first golf day of the summer on June 25 at Transit Valley Country Club. Twenty-eight members and guests were present. Ed Latz hung up the low score of the day—a very neat 78. Of course, the fact that it was his home course had nothing to do with it. 
Our first fling at golf was so successful that we decided to hold another, this time at the Wanakah Country Club, and although we had a slightly sihaller turnout, everybody agreed that we had one swell time. The food at both places was wonderful. Playing handicaps at Wanakah. Bfike Shecdy pulled down first money while Dr. Robert Bami was second. As usual. President Joe Dann was the best dressed man on the course. 
~We held our first fall meeting early in Septem­ber and had an excellent turnout. The new fresh­men were invited, as well as the boys from the cunpus who were home for a few days. Plans for the fall were made: Monday football luncheons, the club Christmas Dance, the possibility of a trip to Cleveland for the Navy game. Father Laadenbadi was chosen as club chsplain and told the boys rU about his visit to the campus last 
year. 
The 1941 -1942 Alumni Board 
Most Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D., Ul, New York City. Jlonorary President Harry F. Kelly, '17, Detroit and Lansing, Mich President Frederick T. Mahaffey, '17, Indianapolis, Ind. First Vice-President Alfonso A. Scott, '22, Los Angeles, Calif. . Second Vice-President James E, Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind Assistant Secretary Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, HI „ Director to 1H2 John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich. .. Director to 1H3 William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind ^Director to 19H 
Kev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10, Mentor, Ohio Ray J, Eichenlauh, '15, Columhus, Ohio 
Many Notre Dame hoys from Buffalo are in 

the service. Jack Fox is an ensign in the Kavy 
at Grosse Isle, Mich. Bob Naffcl is a sergeant in 
the Coast Artillety at San Diego. Calif. Dr. Cail* 
Marinello is a captain in the Medical at Panama. 
Bob Hagee was last heard from in Officers' Train­
ing School in the East. Mike Sheedy was sworn 
in as an ensign just last week and reports to 
Princeton around the first of October. 
Brother Dan Sheedy was recently transferred 

to instruction duty at Corpus Christi, Texas. As 
you might know, he's an ensign in the Naval Air 
Force and managed to get his first Jap plane in 
the Battle of Midway. Lt. James Movlder was 
married a few months ago and the latest report 
has him somewhere across the Atlantic. I think 
you have more dope than I have on Ensign BiU 
Cass. Don Jacob! was inducted early last month 
but we have heard nothing about him. 
Bob Henry was sworn in as an air catfet. Chuck Love was made an ensign in the Kavy Air Force about two months ago and, when we heard of him. he v:as on the West Coast. Frank O'Meara is an Army officer. Frank Reppcnhacen is in the Coast Guard Officer's Training School nt New London. Conn. Capt. Daniel Pflaaa was transferred from Niagara Falls to Monsanto. III. Bob Monahan and Bill Hahar of Middleport. 
N. Y., are both in the service. Bob on the Pacific and Bill at Pensacola. Fla., when last heard from. 
Carlos Frank lost his wife this srmimer, sud­denly. His many friends will be sorry to hear of this, I'm sure. I ran into Joe Marpliy, '35. a few weeks ago. He's in Buffalo with the FBI. Also saw Rnss King, '40, at ni^ t sdiool not so long ago. 
J. Paal Shcc^ 

CAPITAL DISTRia 
Edwin W. Kenefake. '34, 401 Unim St., SchenecUdy, N. Y.; Pres.; John A. Lvrltsch. '36. 501 Bedford Rd.. Schenectady, N. Y., Sec. The local club inaugurated in August a aeries of luncheons held monthly particularly to intro­duce the new men coming into the Capital Dis­trict area. At the first gathering were Jalui Poore, Chariea Welsh, Hobert Serially, J«e Hymn, 
E. Pan! Slick, Elmo Moyer, Edwin Kencfakfe and the writer. 
On July IS Ed Kenefake and myself helped tie the knot for Charlie Welsh and Catherine *Nar­
Director to 1945 JEx-Offido Director to X942 

dini at St. John the Evangelist in Schenectady. 
Jack Loritsrii 

CENTRAL OHIO 
Lou. C Hnrphy, '33. 2357 LiTingston ATC, Colnmbu, Pns. ; Duiiel F. Cannon, '30, 8 East Bnwd St., Colambiu, Sea 

ITie club started the fall with a luncheon at the University Club. Columhus. accordins to Dan Cannon, secretary. The guest speaker was Father Badgalupo, chaplain of the Lockbourne Air Base. Those attending were: Ted Kremer, Ray Eichen­laab, Don Hamilton. Jack Cannon, Jim Wood. Harry Kester, Joe Ryan, Jim Grace. Tim Mc-Cool. Jim Ziesler, Fritz Steinbacher, BiU Bresna­ban. Bob Fortnne and Father Mattingley, chap­lain of the club. Alumni who are passing through Columbus have a standing invitation to dine with the club on Mondays at the University Club. 
Another fall activity included a stag party with the Agonis Club in Columbus, which was ar­ranged through Don Hamilton, who is an execu­tive ofEcer. Pictures of the Notre Dame-Southern California game were shown. The club plans again this year to bold radio parties each Saturday at various members' homes to listen to game broad­casts. 
Jim Wood», formerly of Springfield, is back in town. Bin Bosler, past president of the Louisville Club, attends club luncheons once a month. Ray Hiner of Cleveland was present at ona of the club luncheons recently. Oket Rice is associated with the Price Administration Board in Cleve­land. Jerry Betanceny was in the Naval Reserve at Notre Dame. Jmlce McBride is a roaster ser­geant stationed in Te-tas. Bay Eichenlaab, Jr., is in the Air Force at Savannah. Ga. 
CINCINNATI 
WAui H. SUeb. tx. '33, 1251 Gest St , 
Pica.; Walter J. Nlenakr. '37. 1558 EUn­
teth Place, Sec. 

The membership of our club has decidedly dropped because so many of the boys are now in the service. However, the fellows that are etill here are plaguing hard to fill the gap and it looks as though we will have a most successful year. 
We had our annual summer picnic at the Hartwell Country Club where the facilities for all sports were plenty. Clem Crowe did a swell job of hmndlins the whole affair. 
The ball frame was up to par. Some of the high-lights: Katt Themes* Ions distance hitting; Lanr 'Jansxen's skillful manaserial advice to each team: Bofc Chcnal'a flashy form at short: and Bert Scli]oeraer*s speed In covering the entire outfield while five other fielders stood by. 
Lefty Joe Leonard and yours, truly won the horseshoe pitching tournament, while Dwi^t Brosman gave the boys a few pointers on pool. (We now know where Dwight spent his youthful days). 
Andy Barton and Jim Conway, although they paid only one admission apiece, seemed to eat enough for two. lliat is what active participation in sports will do for you. 
Hnch Bams is now assisting Clem Crowe with the coaching at Xavier University. Emmet Crowe, who assisted Clem last year, is now in the Army. We all. wish Clem and Hugh a most successful season and we certainly will be out there rooting for them. 
John Crowley is now a lieutenant in* .the 
U.S.N.R. Jenr Gohman recently was inducted into the Army and is now stationed at the ^tz­simmons General Hospital in Denver. 
We were very pleased to receive word that Bill Caitcllini will be a member of our club this year. Bill is now manager of the Civic Affairs Depart­ment of the Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce. 
Bert Sdiloemcr recently became the father of a baby girl. The way he is strutting, it is easy to tell that it is his first. 
Walt Nienaber 

CLEVELAND 
Charles E. Bohr. Jr.. '31. 4«24 Mmdamhtmk. 
BWi., Prcs.; Dr. Blyroii E. Crawford, '32, 
C71S Franklin Av«., Sec 

Here is Lieut. Crawford, temporarily at Fort Sitm Houston, Texas. .. . I have no permanent address as yet. — just Headquarters, Eighth Service Command. 
The club had a very successful boat excursion to Cedar Point. Aug. 1. .. . I was in Fort Hayes, Columbus, O., taking my physical exam. 
Arc Becvar is an assistant resident inspector. Naval Materials, Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Flans are going forward for an eventful N.D.­Navy game, with CBuck Rohr and Clas^ Lcroox handling details. 
I had a nice visit with Father Gibhona, '29. on the train recently. He is at St. Edward's, Austin, Texas. Jerry Rcldy is in and gone. Several more, too, but my sudden induction precludes any defini­tion of same. 
Bfika Crawford 

DALLAS (Texas) 
Walter L. Fleadns. 'U, tU9 Belfort Place, 
Pn*.; Ckaries E. Heyer. '29, 4208 Stanhope. 
See. 

July 13.—^e monthly meeting of the Dallas Club waa held in the Dallas Athletic Club. Among those in attendance were Walter Fleralnr. presi­dent. Bin Gtady and little Bill, age 6, Bill Crow­ley. JI B Foley and his father, Joaeph Foley. Ed Haraar, Jame* L. Walak. Dr. Lloyd Bellamy. HUw Hnetan. Arthar Simpson. Jame* Swift. Pat Bacll, Georse Bedcr, Fred Fanst and Leo Fnitas. Jimmie Simmena was attending a convention. 
Frank SIcCalloash has obtained a new position as law clerk to the Federal Court, Eastern Dis­trict of Texas, Sherman, Texas. This sends Frank back where he waa bom and reared. Frank was formerly assistant district attorney for Dallas County. The club will miss him. but is glad he is not leaving Texas. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Many of the club membera are now servins with the armed forces, including Fu l W. Br*wK­field. Army Air Corps; Ji a Fdey. Naval Beaerve; Ed Solon. Army Air Corps: Wke lifliaa. Army Air Corps, and Jack Shortal, Army Air Corps. 
Bill Grady is stocking with pure bred Jersey cattle on his Dallas County farm. 
The club is happy to welcome Cfcarlea Lakr and Jake Reidunatein, both '42, into our Dallas alum­ni group. 
Chailey Heycr 

DAnON 
Williaa L. Stnick. *]«. 514 Hairiea VUt^ Pres. and Sec -

Ensicn Thomas C. Fcmedinc. 1J.SJ(.S.. '40. on duty on a heavy cruiser in the Pacific, waa wound­ed in action in the performance of his dntiaa and in the service of his country according to a telegram received by his father Jadge B. L. Fcr­neding. ex. '96, Sept. 5, 1943. which waa later confirmed in a letter received from Secretary of the Navy Knox. Hie judge also received a cable from his son that he is getting along nicely, and is expected home soon. His twin brother, Enaign John C. Femeding. V.S.N.lt, '40. ia alao on duty in the Pacific. These two young men were the first to enlist in the Naval Reserve from thia county and entered the service shortly after tbrir graduation from Notre Dame. 
William Carroll. '04-'07, an active member of our club and prominent citizen of Dayton, died Sept. 7. 1942, at the age of 54. He was a past grand knight of the Dayton Council of the Knights of Columbus and at the time of his death was an engineer with the National Cash Kegister Co. 
While visiting my sister and her husband Captain Loais H. Ransman, *36. in Milwaukee I was surprised to find myself sitting next to a group of young lawyers at noon having lunch. I recognized John J. Barke. '35, and after pleas­ant greetings he invited me to bia office wEere I met his father Frank P. Batke also in the prac­tice and spent a pleasant hour. John b married to a S t Mary's girl and they have two diildren. We have held no regular meetings througboot the summer. 
William L. Stnck 

DELAWARE 
E. J. Bailer. 14. 2SX4 WasUnctni St. WB­minstns. Prea.; Jaka J. Teiftaac. tS, ISlt Delaware Ave.. Sec 

Dr. Arthur Beam has been transferred from the Sulfur Colors Division of the Jacliaon Labor­atory to the Elastomer Division of the same lab­oratory. 
The Delaware club has lost its first president, Edward J. Butler. '34, to the armed forces. 
Dr. Harold Bowlaa has been transferred from the Process Development division of the Jackson Laboratory to the New Brunswick, N. J , plant of the duPont company. 
Mr. and Mrs. WUIiaai D. Bailey have moved into their new home and can be reached at 801 River Road. Riverside Gardens. Wilmington, Del. 
DENVER 
John Hamphieys. •»*, Ua Baca St„ Pna.; John Caaaell. 13 . XIU FntaHia St. Sac 

The club carried on with a highly productive summer program despite the fact that one-third of its members have gone into military service. Gene Blish and Al O'Meara compiled a prelimi­nary membership list which was sent out to mem­bers for additions and corrections, with a more accurate list to go out later as a result of the first one. . . . The same two also "dreamed np" a swell letter which went out, with a return postcard, to long-lost alumni in Denver and in 
19 

tha outlying "towns like Colorado Springs. Pueblo' and 'Wnidad, The reanlta were most grati^ring: a return of more than 50 per cent and a lot of grand doiie on individuals. 
Then Vn4 Gaakaist. chairman of the dob's Mm-in-Servlee Committee, got out on Sept 10 a perfect mimeographed letter to all the dob's aoldiera, sailon and marines, It contained the latest news of the town, particularly of NJ>. men and aetivitiea^ and most have been reeeivad en­thnsiastically every where. 
The dob will have none of its super football trips tliis year, for obvioos tcasoni. But a lot of the energy that went into arranging the trips is being transferred to taking excellent care of the many NJ>. men who show np at the Army posta near Denver. And here, aa with the football trips, the dob ia doing a magnificent job. 
DETROIT 
MilrilM F. Knaaa. '2«. S*T Cartis BUK.. 

- Fni.: TfcuiiM P. Fdtaan. 14. Wajaa Caaaty VUg^ Sec 
The 1942 dob golf toomament waa held at.the Birmingham Golf Club. Throogh the hard work of Joha Aaaaa. diairman of the affair, a fine arrajr of prizes was gathered for which 50 mem­bera and guests competed. Low net for tha day wa» won by Kasa Beaapre with a 74: Haak Aa­denaa waa second low with 78. Low groas and winner of the first prize in the Kickers waa Hal Kaaaa, oor president. 
Ed Mariarty waa appointed lieutenant, junior grade, ia the Navy and left for Dartmouth Col­lege on the 14th of September to begin his training. Bad .DcHayes was to be inducted into the Army at Camp Custer on Sept 15. 
Congratulations to Jim Kicsa. from Detroit, a newly enrolled freshman who has juat been ap­pointed head drum major of the Univenity Band. Tliia appointment comes as small surprise to Jim's many friends who knew that he has been among the best drum majors in the country. Jim ia a graduate of De LaSalle Collegiate in Detroit and. among other accomplishments, is champion fly-catcher for the state of Michigan. 
Ted 

FORT WAYNE 
Reaiy Haaky. '28. 4M Feaplcs Trast VUt^ 
Prea.; Maarice J. DeWald. -33. 4TM Lafeyettc 
Esplaaade. Sec 
Jaha Lagan, is as this ia written, on maneu­vers at Lecsville. La. Before he left, John waa a practicing lawyer in Fort Wayne and grand knight of the K. of C. Sakeit O'Biiea ia sta­tioned at Bed Bank. N. J. Bsk CcntBrra is in serWee aomewhere. 
Fnak Caitctt is an ensgn in the Navy. Art HiBsr expecta to become a commissioned oOeer in the Navy within the next 30 daya. Bi l Kane ia stationed at Kdly Fidd, Texas. Dkk SAed* was indoeted into the Army. Hany Bogaa heads the local dviUan defense coondl and is doing an ad­mirable job of it. 
Maarice J. DeWdd-

GOGEBIC RANGE 
Jaaepk G. Kalaeri. Jr.. ex. II . 13*7 flirasii 
Ave.. N„ Bailey. Wis,. Prea.; Eageae K. Ziaa. 
19. IK-< Bragaa BUg.. Iiaawaad. MM,. Sec Club aetlnties have been curtailed due to the loaa of five of oor memben, a high pCTccntaga for a memherriiip that was none too large at 
best The skeleton crew remaining does lis best to get together when it can. 
Balirt OTIaaaill. ex. '29. waa inducted into the Amy in May. 1942. At present he is a eotponl in aa engineering corps, and stationed "somewhere 
Frank Vnkovidi, '35, left recently for "VVash­inston, D. C. He is now an industrial specialist in the Division of Operations, Bureau of Industry Branches. His family will join him later. 
John McEevitt, '27, has been doing cngineerinE work for the government for some time in "Wash­ington. D. C , Florida, Penns>-lvania, etc. His address: *'I moved." 
Frmnk Lessclyong^ '37. is now in Appleton, "Wis,, having accepted a position with the Kimberly-Clark Corporation. 
Ray Ebli, *42, is now a member of the Chi­cago Cardinals football squad. He expects to be called for naval training shortlj' after the first of the >ear. 
George Zinn 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Tliomas J. Umphrey, *34, 820 Circle Tower, 
Px«B.; Walter W. Houppert. '25. 5201 Boule­
vard Place, Sec. 
The club held its seventh annual goU tourna­ment and dinner July 14, at the Indianapolis Country Club. 
A feature of the day's progress was a special ceremony in the evening dedicated to the 42 members of our club and all other Notre Bame men in the United States Armed Forces. 
Coadi LeaBy and his assistant. Ed Krausc. were our special guests. They discussed the prospects of next year's team and showed motion pictures of the highlights of last year's games. 
Walter J. Stahldrehcr was chairman of the outing. Other members of the committee included Bob Hos^ahan, John Harrington and George Smith, Ninety members of the club were present. James W. Corbett won possession of the P. C. KciOy trophy with the low gross score. This is tbird time that Jim has won the trophy. John Harrington and Gcorse KUcy had the next best scores. John Welch and Leo Gratx; made the best guess on blind i)ar. 
Walt Houppert 
KANSAS CITY 
Hon. Rossell Hardy. '16. 919 Cleveland. Pres.; Vincent W- DeConrsey. '39, 4530 Jarboe. Sec. About the only thing worth reporting on this front is that the Army and Navy are certainly making inroads on the population. A quick sum­mer's check-up, to which we pretend no semblance of completeness, finds Jim Metzler. Harold Haynes, Ed Rooney recently in the Na\'j-. Ed Reardon, Tom Hiffcins (soon to go), Norm Bowes, Bill DeCoarsey are ail lately of the Army. And if the late autumnal calls are as hea^T as late summer we'll all be reporting in and out of Leavenworth. 
Jadce Ranell Hardy, president of the club, was renominated and reelected unopposed in the "Wy­andotte County judgeship contest this fall. Tom Reardon was here for a few days in the middle of September. He's a Chicago resident for the time being. 
Vince DeCoursey 
MEMPHIS 
diaries P. J. Mooney, *21, 375 N. Avalon St., Pres.; Frederick J. Bauer, '32. 3240 Central Ave., Sec 
Aug. 24—The following officers have been elected for the coming year: C. P. J. Blooney, president; Fred Baner. Jr., secretary; and P. A. McPhilUps, treasurer. 
Hie war has temporarily curbed our activity, but with election of these new officers we hope to become more active in the near future. 
Austin K. Hall 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
NEW JERSEY 
Richard J. Dericks, *31. 347 Paxton St . Pater­son, Pres.; Tobias Kramer, ex. '3€. 34t Oranre Rd., Montclair, Sec 
To tell you fellows that our club is going through trying times from a membership point of view would be stating the case mildly. On the other hand, it may just as truthfully be said that when the war is won, it will undoubtedly have come about through the efforts of the member­ship of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey. Now let me tell you w^y. 
It w-as only two weeks ago that John Poreoro came over to say that his civilian status would soon be changed to that of Private Poreoro. By this writing it has been changed. Bill Carter is now in Fort Logan, Colo. T. J. Flynn, of Mont­clair. has successfully passed his requirements of OCS and is now a second lieutenant. Larry Car­ton, '29, is in the Quartermaster Corps in Wash­ington, D. C. He is a first lieutenant. The same honor is held by Frank McClain, '32, also operat­ing in Washington, D, C. 
Sept. 23, 1542. it will be Capt. GcraU Hayes of the Air Corps. Capt. George Marpky is at Max­well Field, Ala. Joe Bloore, of Bloomfield. is now at Pearl Harbor. Dr. George McDonnell is a first lieutenant in the Army Medical Corps. Bill Mor­itz also got the call and is no longer in the Fed­eral IVust Building in Newark but is on his merry way. It's Corp. Bay Geiger, a soldier of long standing now. 
Joe Sullivan is a lieutenant, junior grade, in the Naval Air Corps. 
To those of you who are friends of Tony Serge, I am passing his request to hear from the boys. You can address him as follows: Sg't Tony Serge. Headquarters of the 4th Motorized Division. Office of the Division Chaplain, Camp Gordon, Ga. 
Phil Heinle and his family have moved to Chi­cago. Chicago Club, please note. 
The club proudly wishes to announce that it has recently bought a Sl.OOO bond. We hope to realize enough money from our ticket activity to make a substantial start in buying another bond. See Pete Qninn. 24 Broad St.. Bloomfield. N. J., for tickets. 
Toby Kramer. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Joseph a Frial, '2f, H«tel W«odstMh. 127 
W. 43rd St. Pica.; Tiaatfcj J- TOOOICT. *U, Hotri Woaditodc 127 W. 43ri St. Sec 
The club opened the fall program of activities with the annual Father-Son meeting at the Hotel Woodstock on Sept. 3. Vice-President Jack Hoyt, '33, soon to enter active military service, wel­comed about 45 freshmen and their guardians. Past Presidents Ed Fallon, '26, Ed Tighe, *21. Dan O'Neil, '25, Doc Gelson, '26, Leo McLaughlin, *32. and Warren Focel, '30, were on hand. 
The N.D. Football Highlights of 1941 were enthusiastically received by the audience. The usual door prizes were awarded. The following committee chairmen made reports: William A. Dannt, '08, Retreat; Daniel O'Neil, '25. Scholar­ship Fund; and Coleman O'Shanghnessy, '31, Reunion-Rally. 
The annual Retreat was held under the direc­tion of Rev. Cosmas Shaughnessy. C.P.. at the Passionist Retreat House. Jamaica, L. I., the week-end of September 18-20. The retreatants at­tended a requiem Mass offered by the club for Ensign Fergus F. Kelly, '37. a club member who was killed in the line of duty in Alaska on Aug. 9. 
Dan O'Neil has placed in the hands of all club members books for the 1943 Scholarship Fund Drive. Members are urged to dispose of these books as soon as possible to insure the success of this worthy club program. 
The club secretary is trying to keep an up-to­date roster of all members who are serving in the armed forces. The list is far from complete be­cause of the lack of accurate information. Par­ents, relatives and friends of club members now in the armed forces of the country are asked to furnish the club secretary with necessary data. 
Tim Toomey 

Army-N. D. Rally in Waldorf-Astoria 
The iifth annual pre-Army game rally of the Notre Dame Club of the City of New York will be held this year in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel on Friday-.evening. Nov, 6. 
The Army Emergency Relief .Rind is to be a co-beneficiary with the club's Scholarj^hip Fund on the basis of 50-50 of the net proceeds. TTiis pa­triotic contribution imposes a much more difhcult task on Chairman Coleman O'Shanghnessy and his committee. Ihis year's party will-'be different in several ways. "" 
Walter O'Keefe. '21, is to be master of cere­monies and will pace the affair (in timing) in night club style. A section of the floor in front of the stage will be kept clear of tables so that there can be dancing to Frank Walther*a *25. Orchestra. Famous sports personalities, promi­nent Army officers, distinguished alumni, stars of stage, screen and radio, will entertain the as­semblage in three ''floor shows." This will insure plenty of time for "reunioning" and dancing and quiet attention to the speakers when they take the floor. 
The Waldorf-Astoria has the finest grand ball­room in the country with perfect acoustics and public address' system. All indications point to a problem in selecting from a long list of stars and distinguished guests the relatively few that can be included in the program. 
An honorary committee of Rev. Hagh O'Daa­nell, C.S.C. president of the University, L t Gen. Hugh A. Drum, Laetare Medalist. Maj. Gen. 
Terry, Maj. Gen. Phillipson, director of Army Emergency Relief. Maj. Gen. Wilby, commandant of U.S. Military Academy. Postmaster General Walker, '09. Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, archbishop of New York. Grattan Stanford. '06. and Hon. Alfred E. Smith has been chosen. Other prominent Army officers, alumni, and others will be added from time to time. 
Admission will be by reservation only. The capacity of the ballroom is 2.000. Reservations at tables on the floor are $2.20 per person including tax. Boxes for patrons are 5100 for the first tier (seating 10) and $50 for the second tier (seating 8). Reservations are going fast. 
A 50-page souvenir program will be published and advertisements are being accepted at reason­able rates. Copies will be sent to Notre Dame men in military and naval posts all over the country and overseas where possible. 
Dress is informal and special low prices have been arranged for food and beverages. 
Attractive door prizes have been donated by prominent stores and manufacturers, who will be listed with the box holders as patrons in the program. 
Anybody wishing to secure reservations for tables or boxes, donate prizes, place advertise­ments in the program, or contribute in any way, should write to Coleman O'Shaughnessy, Notre Dame Club of New York, Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York City. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
OREGON 
Dr. Ralph M. Prar, ex. '27, Selling Bldr.. PortUnd, Pres.; Fred L. Cunningham, '30, 3017 N.G. - 54th Ave., Portland. Sec. 
We had a meeiins on Universal Notre Dame Night with a good turnout of those of us re­maining out of service. 
Officers elected for the current year are as fol­lows : Ralph M. Prag, president; Bill Sdimitt. vice-president; and Fred Cunningham, secretary-treasurer. 
Ralph Prag 

PANAMA 
Dr. Gnillermo Patterson, Jr., '11, 46 Pern Ave., Panama R.P., CA., Prea.; William B. Allen, ex. '32, Box 759. Ancon, Canal Zone, Sec. 
After several months of inactivity due to the emergency the Club resumed activities with a re­turn performance of the movie "Knute Rockne— All American." 
Our district will be represented on the campus by five students this year. Of these three will be at Notre Dame for the first time; Arthur Gonlct, LoremEO Romagesa and Jose Cardenas. Next year we hope to increase the local representation enough to warrant a Panania Club at Notre Dame. 
Among the service men the club has two col­onels and one commander, several captains and many lieutenants. In addition to all this gold braid, we have a goodly number of enlisted men of both branches of the Service. 
Our president. Dr. Patterson, who is a judge in the Republic, was elected president of the Canal Zone Bar Association. He earned the first Ph.D. that was ever given at Notre Dame, back in 1913. 
Bill Sheridan, '3-1, was recently appointed as­sistant to the district attorney of the Canal Zone. 
Joe Harrington, '39, has been stationed at the local Pan American Airport where he scrutinizes air passengers under the Trading-With-Enemy Act. 
Joe Apodaca, ex-prof., is district representative of the Rubber Reserve Corp. with his headquarters at San Jose, Costa Rica. Every two weeks he spends three days here in Panama. 
Joe De Franco, '40. recently passed through the Isthmus. Also Sr. Jose Mariategni, LL.B. *30. who is now Peruvian Minister in Managua. Nica­ragua. He recently returned from the Orient where he had represented his country for several years. 
Jerry Kane, '38, recently spent several days here while returning to Lima, Peru, where he is stationed with Panagra. He reports that Jim Raaf is doing fine with the trading company of Grace & Co. 
The club lent the NJ>. football films of last season to the Morale Officer of the Army in order to have them shown to the soldiers who are sta­tioned out in the jungle outposts. We hope to be able to do the same this year while the season is still under way. 
We are beginning weekly informal meetings for the men who are in the Services here and often miss the regular monthly meetings while on duty. We are unable to send out the names of any of the Notre Dame men who are here in the Services but there is a large number and they find the local club to be a sort of home away from home. Any Notre Dame literature that can be sent by city clubs back in the States will be passed around among the Notre Dame men here. Most all of them are members of city clubs* at home but are unable to tell their location to their friends at home. 
Bin AUcn 

PHILADELPHIA 
E. Bradley Bailey, ex. '23, Rydal. Pa.. Prts.; Clifford E. Prodchl. '32. Ct70 Gbestcr ATC . 
• S«c. 
Comes the Fall and with it a resumption of club meetings. 
Most startling piece of info is re: Frank Mc-Manns who escaped from under the army vrine of Uncle Sam long enough to get married at New Orleans (a local gal. too). 
Harold Duke was head of the reception com­mittee when Notre Damers Paal Lillia. Hemic Crimmins, Bob HarKrave, Ray Ebli and Bob Mad-dock made their appearance with the College All-Stars. Frank Leahy couldn't get away from practice sessions and wired regrets to Charley Conley. 
Joe Wackerman, Connie Byrne and Al D'AMOra are passing out cigars and having the vest but­tons set over. All are proud paps of St. Mary's candidates. 
The Navy gets the nod from this area. Latest to get commissions are: John H. Nccion. Jr., as ensign. Bill Moss and Dave McCaffrey as lieu­tenants (i.g.). Jack and Bill are both stationed at the Philadelphia Na\-y Yard while Dave has been assigned to Norfolk. Heard that Harry Fran­cis was commissioned in the Army Air Corps. Is this so, Harry? 
The welcome sign is out for Boh Daffy who came up from Washington with the SEC; Stan Chanowicz who is assisting Bake Manhall with the coaching at North East Catholic High and Father John P. Lynch, C.S.C.. stationed with the Medii-al Missions Sisters at Fox Chase. There's plenty of room for others, so if you come to town be sure to call Ed Bailey at Kingsley 2590 or your scrivener at Saratoga 6527. 
CUS Prodehl 

ROCHESTER 
Frank X. Connelly, ex. '34, 1552 Chili Ave., 
Pres.; Robert C. Odenbach, '41. 323 Aberdeen 
St. Sec 
Aug. 13.—Secretary Bob Odenbach has been busy with brother John getting a large shipbuild­ing contract completed for their own Dolomite Ship Building Company; thus the quietude for the past five or six months. Hope this issue will make up for it. 
Joe Flynn, who is the architect for million dol­lar St. Mary's Hospital, is seeing his dream come true as the hospital nears completion. Treasurer Dick Sullivan is now assistant treasurer of the Distillation Products, Inc. Johnny Dorschel and Larry Carpenter are in the time study department at Bausch and Lomb. 
Several of our members have left to join the armed forces. Jerry FarreU is at Fort Knox in the officers' school; Marty Bayer is in officers' school with the Coast Guard; Lo« Bcwih is in the air force and Bill Whelehan trains with the anti-aircraft division. Johnny GiUoaly is one of the later departures in Miami with the Air Corps, while Pete Connelly is a private first class after completing basic training at Fort Jackson. S. C. Mark Eilers and I recently attended a school in aerial bombardment protection given by the gov­ernment in Rochester for engineers. 
Fnuk DcCicrA is in the purdiasins departiBent at Hawk Eye for Eastman. Kodak. BOI Bdi is still with Taylor Instrument Company: Bcndt HcwMaacy carries on for Celotex; Bi l Jaaes is now at Kodak Park; Jadt Harler is in the insoi­anee business and Frank CaaacHy is sUll waitinjc for Uncle Sam to find his application papers. 
Frank X. CammtOr 

ST. LOUIS 
VaMa Wn»e. ex. '23. HcU PaAhw C*.. 21U 
LaSaDe, Pio. ; Dr. Fiaacis L. Kcaatdy. tS. 
MiMMil Theatie BMs.. See. 
The annual picnic of the cinb was held July 19 at John Carley'a farm, and was a result of ar­rangements made by Datch Wrape and Al Bavaxi­n* aeeording to Correspondent Baland Daaea. The club wishes to thank them, and especially Mr. and Mrs. Corley. for their efforts and magnificent hos­pitality. 
Among those attending the gathering were the families of Dick Kkhr, Fran Kennedy and Jeny Aneld; T«« Glynn, who canceled an important engagement in order to get a sunburn—^wliidi he got; Jack Griffin who was home from the' Ma­rines at Qnantico; Paal. Vinee and Laa FcUir, Jia GUo. Jaacs Fitipatridi. JtUk WOam. Dr. Matt Weis. Dr. Bert Cwuhlia, Ibrtie Lacaa, L. C Petcnduaidt.' Fnd McNeiO. Fnd Wcker. J. O'Hanlan, Geerte Fisk and Fred Switaer. 
TRI-CrriES (Iowa) 
Oscar F. Sadtt. 'SS,' 7*2-2ldi St^ Sack Is­land. DL. Pres.; Francia C. KInc. '!>, State Bank BUc.. E. MaBne. m.. Sec 
Aug. 10.—Every member of the dub seems to be pretty well taken up with defense work but no member of the club has enlisted or has been drafted into the services as far as I know.' 
At the meeting of April 17, Oscar Saith. '95. of Rock Island, was elected president, and Fkaacia Kinff, '19, of Rock Island, secretary-treasurer. 
G. W. Vander Veaact 

WASHINGTON. D. C 
Leo F. MalHn. ex. '22. Wardaun Park Hatel. Pres.; Jaaeph L. Borda. ex. -33. 1734 "P" St.. N.W.. Sec 
Newly elected officers of the club include: Lea 
F. MaUin. president; Bill Brown, first vice-presi­dent; Capt. Jafat Hinkel second vice-president; Jae Barda, secretary; J. A. Dadas. treasurer; Pat Ganaaa. sergeant-at-arms; Rer. R. H. Sweeney. C.S.C.. chaplain. H e board of governors include Aabraae O'Cennell. Joe O'Hara. Bill Craain. TaB McKevitt and.Bcmie Laihhaagh. 
WESTERN PENNSyLVANIA 
Jaim MrMahi. 18. *U Laac BIdce Diire. Ibaat Lehaaan. Pa.. Pna.; WOlaai B. CSa­der. Jr.. II. SM Gettyatais St.. PittstarA Pa..'Scc 
On July 1, our members were surprised to receive a news sheet called "Tlie Gaboon," edited, printed and distributed by our publicity minded officers. Its ,Bain purpose was to give the members the result of a postcard survey we. recently made. This survey which was primarily intended to bring our mailing list up io date' brought a far from satisfactory response but did bring out some in­teresting information. 
Did yon know that we've got a large representa­tion on the local news front: On the Fittsbnrgh "Sun-Telegraph", K. J. COannell. '31, editorial staff; Taanay HspUaa. '30, feature writer: Jae Br^ . '28, feature political writer; and Jaha' J. Ward. ex. .'20, news editor. On the PittsbareA "Press." Rady Cmkavic *34, is an advertisinK salesman and copy writer. 
ADDITIONAL MILITARY MEN 
(Inclulins names received mnd classified up to Sept. 15) 
WOliaH L. Sixamitli, *3S, is lethal counsel for tank and combat section. War Department. Pitts­bnrsfa Army ordnance district. He is stationed in PittsbnrKfa. Larry 0*Donnell. '36, is now a second lieutenant after coming up the hard way. His present address is Company C, 349th Infantry. Camp Grnber, Okla. 
My apologies for the delay in reporting that Jalm O'DmndU '38, (Larry's brother), was mar­ried, in February, at Sacred Heart Church, Pitts­burgh, to Patricia O'Malley. ("Johnny found his rose In Pittsburgh.") John is now handling claims for the liberty Mutual Insurance Company in Pittsburgh. 
Congratulations are in order for Dr. Ridiard 0*T«ole, '30, on the birth of a fine daughter on August 4. Hiis is his first e?:perience with a baby of his own. Bob, '39. his brother, is at Officers Candidate School, Air Corps. Miami Beach, Fla. Lany, *36, will have finished Officers Training School, at Camp Lee, Va., by the time this reaches print. 
Paal J. HcArdle. *39, at last report, could be reached at Flight B, 205 TSS, Kessler Field. Miss. FrancU X. Tottcn, has been commissioned as Ensign. U. S. Naval Reser\*es. Jerry Bnstin, '31, of Sayre. Pa., turned up with the Army Show as a supply sergeant. 
Rer. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., *33. who was ordained June 24. celebrated his first Mass at St. Raphael's, Pittsburgh. June 28. He has returned to Kotre Dame as an assistant prefect of religion. BID Fay, '40, vho had been writing sports for the "Chicago TWbune," left for the Army with a South Hills contingent, July 18. 
A. F. Daschbadi. '25, is busy outfitting the graduate officers of the Medical Corps at Car­lisle, Pa. He maintains headquarters at a hotel there. (Adv't.) 
The club offers its sympathy to: Pat Brennan, *44. and his family on the recent death of his father, and to Vince Bnrke, '33. and his family on the recent death of his father. 
Congratulations to Jack Sheedy. *28. on a new addition to his family. The new gal is No. 3 on his parade of hits. He now has two girls and one boy. 
Sfft. Jahn W. Patterson, '41, was heard on an international broadcast, "Stars and Stripes Abroad," Sept. 6, from England and he gave an interesting chat on life in England. 
We had a golf party at the Stanton Heights Country Club, Aug. 27, with some 35 members and guests at dinner. Among those present vrere Taifc Meinert, Father Vince Brennan. Hngfa Gal­laciwr, BiU Ginder, Dr. Richard O'Toole, Fritz Wilam. Jack Sheedy, Hugh Boyle, Red Reardon. Jack Barr. C W. "Pinky" Martin, Bill Slx­••ith, Jahn Briley. Neal Gmlone, John Ward. John Mdfahan, Joe Brcig, George SchlU, BUly Bfacarrall, John PavUck. Dr. Leo O'Donnell, Leo Vofel, Jimmy Dodson, Lee Snyder and Jade Ryan .(Forf^ve me if I forgot to include you). 
RichanI C. Donohoe enlisted in the Navy in February. Ibjer Francis A. Hegarty, Medical Corps, Camp Hood, Temple, Texas, is medical coordinator and head of sanitation in the Gamp Hood area. Le* J. Bnrphy, Wilmerding, has re­ceived an ensign's commission. 
Ensisn ^Ince Barke, '33, can now be reached at Armed Guard Center. U. S. Naval Station. New Orleans, and would like to hear from some of you guys. He is In a gun crew on a merchant ship. With his past experience as an attorney and his new "convincers" he threatens to give CDemy submarines a winning argument.. 
Bill Ginder 

Amato, Ancelo B., '42, Finance Det.. Camp Kilmer, Stelton, N. J. Apone, Loais W., '41, Advance Det., 29th Inf. Div.. Camp Blandin^. Fla. 
Anuiowski, Erwin C . '42, Pvt., Flight D. 56Sth Tech. School Squadron, JeiTerson Barracks, Ho. Arms, Joseph H.. '35, Pvt., 59Ist Tech. School 
Squadron, Flight D-353, Keesler Field, Hiss. 

Ash, James D., '33. Fvt., Co. .D, 1st Platoon, 33rd Inf. Tr. Bn., Camp Croft, S. C. Bailey, WiUiam J.. '37, Lt. Ued. Corps, U.S. Army, Fort Hason, Calif. Bairley, Roy J.. '41, U.S. Army. 564th Sdiool squadron. Box 345, Atlantic City, X. J. BatcheDor, Qyde C, '33, Lt., 922nd E.N.G.R. 
Regt., Geiger Field, Spokane, Wash. Bayer, Martin E., '37, Coast Guard, Officers School. Bedcer. Walter J.. '37, Btry. B. 56th F.A. Tr. Bn.. 
Camp Boherts, Calif. 

Betsen, RIdiaid F„ '39, Co. A. Supply Bn., 5th Arm'd Div., Desert Maneuvers, A.P.O. 255, cjo Postmaster, Los Angeles, Calif. 
Bernard, Anthony M., '40, Ensign, U.S.N.T.S_ Dartmouth College, 209 TopliiT Hall, Hanover, 
N. H. 

Beyrer, John B., '35, Pvt., 64th Troop Carrier Group. Hdqs. Sqdn., A.P.O. 1255, c|o Postmaster, New York City. 
Biari, FrancU W., '40. Co. C. O.C.S„ P.O.O.S.C., South Post, Fort Oglethorpe, Ga. Blake. Robert W., '40, First Tank Co., 1st Bfarine Div., Fleet Marine Force, New River, N. C Blnm, WiUiam G., ex. '42, Lt., Army Air "Force Advanced Flying School, Lubbock, Texas. Bodie. Rokert J., '38, Corp., Co. A. Signal Tr. Bn.. Camp Crowder, Mo. Borda, Henry P. '40, Ensign, U.S.N.R., 37 Red Cross Ave., Newport, R. I. Boyle, Aoitin L., '31, Lt., Randolph Field. San Antonio. Texas. Boyle, Charles J., '36, Apprentice Seaman, Class V-7, U.S.N.R. Boyle, PanI J., '33. P\-t., Co. B. 12th Tr. Bn„ 4th Best., B.I.B.T.C., Fort McClellan, Ala. 
Bradley. Arthar J.. '27, Pvt., U.S. Army. 409 Tr. School Sqdn. (Sp.). A.A.F.T.S.S., Amarillo Field, Texas. 
Brady. John C . '36, Lt., Naval Reserve Medical Corps, Norfolk Navy Yard. Norfolk, Va. 
Broderick. William P., ex. '44, Aviation . Cadet, U.S.N.R., Graceland Hall, Davis & Elkins Col­lege. Elkins, W. Va. 
Brown. Richard J.. '39, Pvt., Section 9. 3rd Best. Co., 502nd Signal Regt. (S.P.) A.W.S.. Or­lando Air Base, Fla. 
Brownfield. P«al W., '41, Army Air Corps. Navi­gation School, Kelly Field, San Antoniog Texas. Bnenger. Edward A.. '42, Lt., U.S. Army, Fort 
Benning, Ga. Barfce. John E., '41. U.S. Naval Air Station, Cor­pus Christi. Texas. Butler. Robert W., '34, 2nd Lt., Army Air Corps. 
U.S. Array Air Cargo Div., Duncan Field. San Antonio, Texas. 

Cackley. John N., '37, Pvt., Co. B, 36th Inf. IV. Bn., 2nd Platoon, Camp Croft, S. C. Callahan, Joseph G., '41, Naval Air SUtion, Glen-view, HI. Carberrr, James J., ex. '41. Cadet. Maxwell Field, 
Montgomery, Ala. Caiberry. Thomas P.. ex. '34, In Navy. Carey, Francis BL. ex. '41, Co. L, 143rd Inf.. 
Camp Bowie, Texas. Carroll. Thomas P.. ex. '42, Ensign, Naval Avi­ator, U.S. Navy A.D.U., Port Columbus. O. Carroll. WilUaB E.. '39, Service Co.. 215th Inf, 
A.P.O. 79, Camp Pickett, Va. 
Carter, William H.. '27. 23rd Tech. Sch. Sqdn.. (Sp.), Fort Logan, Colo. Casey, Donald P.. '42, Pvt. Service Co., 379th Inf;, A.P.O. 95, U.S. Army, Camp Swift, Texas. Casey, Jahn C '41, U.S. Naval Air Station. Corpus Christi, Texas. Chapman, RichanI E., ex. '34, Battery A, 55th F.A., Tr. Bn., Camp Roberts, Calif. 
Clark. Robert L., '34, Pvt., U.S. Army. Co. C. Casual Section, Staging Area. Barracks 518, Fort Lawton, Wash. 
Clark. Thomas E.. '30, Lt., U.S.M.C. Unit 320. c/o Postmaster^ San Francisco. Calif. Cieaents. James R., ex. '38, 106 Sep. Coast Artil­lery Bn., (A.A.), Camp Hulen, Texas. CliVord. Jahn F.. '38, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Columbia University, New York City. Cochrane. Irving M.. ex. '40, Lt., U.S. Army Air Corps. Cole. John C. '40, Pvt. A.P.O.' 1693 (Service). c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif. Conser. Edward J., e-x. '44, Pvt.. Co. B-2. A.F.R.T.C., Fort Knox, Ky. Coniwlly, Peter J., '33, Pfc, U.S. Army, A.P.O. 77th Div.. Co. D, 302 med. Bn., Fort Jackson. 
S. C. CaUinane. Daniel J.. '42, U.SJf.C. Quantico, Va. Carran. Vincent T., '36, Co. N.. O.C.S., Aberdeen 
Proving Grounds. Md. Csaikawski, Casimer J., MJV. '39, Pvt., 575th Tech. School Sqdn. (Sp.), Miami Beach, Fla. 
Davis. Jahn F.. '38, Lt., U.S.N.R. Decry, Paal C, '42, Pvt, 753rd Chemical Co.. 
Had)ill.Field, Tampi, Fla. Demple, Harold B., ex. '40, Lt . U.S. Army Corps. Derhin, Miihael E., '41. Lt, Co. D. 80th A.R.. 
8th Div., A.P.O. 258. Fort Knox, Ky. Devine, John A., '34, Army Signal Corps. Dilkn. Leo H., Jr., '35, Pfc, Fort Belvoir, Va. Dillan. Ihomaa E., '42, Pvt., 565th Tech. School 
Squadron (Sp.), AtUntie City, N. J. Dinm, WinUH R., '40, Co. B. 1st Q.H.T. Rest.. 
Fort Francis E. Warren, Wyoming. Dincen, Joseph D., '38, In Army. Dinsc*, John P., '42, Army Air Corps Ground 
School, 3rd Station Complement, Patterson Field, ' Fairfield, O. Donahae, Ridiard V., ex. '40, Ensign, U.S. Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. Oarsin, Casimer J., ex. '39, P\-t, Fort Belvoir, Va. Dowiu, Francis J., '31, Field Artillery, Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Doyle. Jame* F.. '40, Pvt, 30th School Squadron. 
Barracks 789, Scott Field, III. Doyle, Thamas J., ex. '37, In Service. DaW,. Glenn T., '35, 2nd Lt, Officers Training 
School, Barracks T-31, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. 

Dacan, William M., '41, 809 Tech. Sch. Sq. (Sp.). Army Air Forces, Barracks 617, Sioux Falls, S.Dak. 
DaiOeTy, Winiam A., '30, In Service. 
Daan, Jooeph H., '39, Ensign. U.S.N.R.. U.S. Naval Reserve Aviation Base. Los Alamitos, Calif. 
Danae, John F., '28. Capt, Post Headquarters. QJf.C., Fort Hason, Calif. DsBiie. Joseph H., '31, Navy Recruiting, Petty Officer, Post Office Bldg., Alexandria, La. Daaae. Richard A., ex. '42, Oirp., U.S. Army, 443 Sdiool Sqdn., Spence Field, Hontrie, Ala. 
Dyke. Robert C '41, U.S. Navy, V-7, Hidship­man, U.S.N.B., U.S.S. Prairie SUte, Section 43, New York City. 
Eataa. Charles W., '42, Pvt.. Co. E, 5th QJtT.­GJL, BIdtt. 327, Fort Francis E. Warren, Wyo. Bhy. Doaglas L., '40, Lt , A.C.B.F.S, Herccd. CaUf. 
Mer, SaapMn, '42, A/C, 38th Tech. School Sqdn., Brick Barracks 1-304, Chanute Field, III. Eldwnlaab. Rarmond J., ex. '42, U.S. Army-Air Corps, Hunter Field, Savannah, Ga. Fay, William C . '40, Co. M, 319 Inf., A.P.O. 80, Camp Forrest, Tenn, Fiewecer, William H., '36, Ensign, U.S. C.G.R., 105 E. Delaware, Chicago, III. Fisher, Gerald M.. '41, Marine Corps, Commission School, Qoantico, Va. Fitnimmont, Robert E.. '39, AjC, Ellington Field, Texas. Flanican, Charles J., '39, Special Service Office. Pbst Headquarters, Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn. 
N. If. Flinn, NeH W., '23, Battery D. 5th Bn.. M. BIdg. 
605, 2nd Regt. F.A.R.T.C., Fort Bragg. N. C. Fox, John E., ex. '37, 65th Observation Group, 
U.S. Army Air Corps, Headquarters Sqdn., 
Langley Field, Va. Frick, James E,. '42, U.S.N.R., V-7. 
Gait, Jamu J., '42, U.S. Army, 95th Inf., Hq. Co.. A.F.O. 95, Camp Swift, Texas. Gatdewine, Joseph M.. '31, Co. B. 115th Med. Reg., A.P.O. 40, Fort Lewis. Wash. Garsaro, Ernest J., '33, Co. C, 29th Eng. Tr. Bn., Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Gavin, John J., '42, U.S. Naval Aviation Base, Glenview, 111. 
Gcddes, William H., '40. Pfc, U.S. Army Air Corps, 565th Tech. School Sqdn. (Sp.), Am­bassador Hotel, Atlantic City, N. J. 
Gehres, Charles A., '42, Pvt., U.S. Army, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. Germann, Richard J., '38, MySgt., Hq. Supply Bn., 8th Armd. Div., Fort Kno.-c. Ky. Gesclbracht, Thomas H.. '42, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Portsmouth Navy Yard, Portsmouth, N. H. Giaespie, Charles J.. '41, U.S. Naval Reserve Aviation Base, Glenview, III. Gironx, Richard W., '31. Pvt., U.S. Army, Co. B. 3rd Med. Tr. Bn.. Camp Pickett, Va. Gleason, Neat J., '40, Fort Francis E. Warren, Wyo. Gonrinsr, Leroy J., '36, Finance Officers Candidate School, Duke University, Durham, N. C. 
Goodcnow. Rev. Robert C. S.J., Office of the Chaplain, 19th Evacuation Hospital. Fort Wright, N. Y. 
Gorman, Robert E., '32, Lt. (j.g.). In Navy. Graves, Thomas V., '35, Sgt., Adj. Gen. Dept., Officer Training School, Fort Washington, Md. 
Goindon, Francis X., '40, 2nd Lt., Battery B, 23rd C.A. Sep. Bn., Fort Rodman. New Bedford, Mass. 
Habis, Leonard P., ex. '38, U.S.N.R., V-7. 
Hagen, Walter C . Jr., '40, 2nd. Lt, Inf. A.F. (A.U.S.), A.P.O. 3019, cjo Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif, 
Hallifan, James W., '32, Pvt., U.S. Army. Co. C, 35th S.CJl,T.C., Barracks 1211, Camp Crowder, Mo. 
Hanrattr. Joseph E.. '34, Pvt., Co. B. 1st Bn., O.R.T.C., Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md. Harbert. Edwin G.. ex. '42, U.S. Naval Air Sta­
tion, Corpus Christ!, Texas. Hardart, Thomas B.. '38, U.S.N.R., V-7. Harcan. Edward F., '26, Lt. (j.g.). In Navy. Harrington, Vincent F., '25, Major, Army Air' 
Corps, Stout Field, Indianapolis, Ind. Harrison, John F., '29, In Army. Hart, Fa»I M., '35, U.S. Army Air Corps. Officer 
Candidate School, Miami Beach. Fla. Hart, T. Victor, '29, U.S. Army Air Corps. Harwood. John E.. '27, 1st Lt., U.S. Air Force, 
Monroe Towers Hotel, Miami Beach, Fla. Hawler. John N.. ex. '36, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army Air Corps, Brooks Field, Texas. 
Hayes, John C , ex. '40, 79th Quartermaster Depot Co, (Sp.), A.P.O. 1234, cjo Postmaster, New York aty. 
Heathenaan. Kenna J.. '37, U.S. Naval Air Sta­tion, Pensaeola, Fla. . 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Hennessy. Edward J., '40, 2nd Lt.. U.S. Army Air Corps, Lubbock Army Flying School, Lubbock, Texas. 
Hennessy. Joseph F., '40, Sgt., Engineers Drafting ' Hdqs.' Co., Eng. Replacement Center, 'Fort Bel­voir, Va. Hilgartner. Daniel £.. Jr.. *42, In Army, Camp 
Grant, 111. Hoban, John J.. '36, Lt., U.S-N.R. Hoban, Ihomas M.. '42, Corp, Co. A, 18th Bn., 
1st Platoon, A.F.R.T.C., Fort Knox, Ky. 
HofsUtter, Ray L., e-x. '18, U.S.N.R., Radio Tech­nician-2C., U.S. Naval Twining Center, Great Lakes, III. 
Hogan, Gerald G., '40, Ensign, J.OJI., San Diego. Calif. Hogan, Vincent J., '35, Pvt, Co. B, 737th Bn., Fort Thomas, Ky. Holmes, John J., ex. '31, Army Air Force Tech. Tr. School. Chanute Field, III. 
Holtz, Robert F.. '38, Cadet, Co. B, 3rd Q.H., Sch. Regt., Quartermaster School, Camp Lee, Va. 
Horak, Thomas E.. '42, 364th Tech School Sqdn., 
Barracks 660, Lowry Field, Colo. Rowley, Robert S.. '41, U.S.N.R., V-7. Hussey, John J., '40, In Navy. 
Iversen. Robert W., ex. '43, S/Sgt., Kelly Held, Te-xas. 
Jaskwfaicfa. Charles J., '33, Lt. (j.g.). U.S. Navy Pre-FIight School, Athens, Ga. Jochems, Theodore P., '40, A.F.A.F.S., AJ)L.R, 4­10, Victorville, Calif. Johnston, Bnrley C , Jr.. '40, In Service, Flying bombers, ferrying command. 
Kelley, Thomas J., '37, Lt., 1st Med. Regt., Fort Ord. Calif. 
Kelly, Frank J., '32, Co. C, 3rd Bn., 4th Platoon, Ordnance Replacement Training Center, Aber­deen Proving Grounds, Md. 
Kelly. James L., e.x. '43. U.S. Naval Air Station, Corpus Ghristi, Texas. Kelly, John H., '41, U.S. Naval Air Station. Cor­pus Christi, Texas. Kelsey, Donald J., ex. '43, Pvt.. Hq. Det., 1st Bn., 339th Inf., A.P.O. 85, Camp Shelby, Miss. Kerrigan, John R., '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R., Dart­
mouth College, Hanover, N. H. Kirby, Joseph B., '31. U.S.N.R., V-7. Kmiecik. Rev. Joseph M., C.S.C.. '30, Lt.. Ch. 
U.S. Army, Post Chapel, Fort Lewis, Wash. Knnsman, Theodore J.. '38, Co. G, 33td Div., 129th 
Inf., Camp Forrest, Tenn. Korth, Howard J., '41, Ensign, U.S.N.R. 
Lacroix, Lncicn J.. '39, U.SJfJt, Co. 833, U.S. Naval Base, Newport, R. I, 
Langlois. Robert E.. '41, Lt, 430 Bombardment Sqdn.. 29th Bombardment Group, (?owen field, Boise, Idaho. 
Ledvina, Jerome P , '38, Ensign, U.SJf.H.. Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, Washington, D.C. 
Lenahan. Charles a , '33, Lt, Co. B, 28 E.T. Bn, Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Lentz, Frederick E., '41, Pvt, Hdqs. Combat Com­
mand A, 3rd Armd. Div., Camp Polk, La. Linehan. Michael J., ex. '40, Army Air Corps. Ling. Engene F.. '37, 1st Lt. Officers Training 
Bn., Carlisle Barracks, Pa. 
Lucas, John V., '41, Advanced Carrier. Tt. Sta­tion, J.O.Q, U.S. Naval Air Station, San Diego, Calif. 
Lnkanitscfa. John L.. ex. '3*. Com.. Co. G, 34th Armd. Regt. 5th Armd. Div.. A.P.O. 255, Camp Cooke, Calif. 
Lynch. John E.. '39, In Service. 
HacDevitt. Eamon D., ex. '44. Lt.. Co. C. 8Ist Div, 323rd Inf., Camp Rucker, Ala. 
HacDevitt. Thomas J., ex. '40. 23rd Inf, Fort Sam Houston, Texas. 
MarKtwie. LMia A.. '41. PVt, Co. D. 1st Fin. Tr. Bn, FJCT.C, Fort Benjamin Harrison. Ind. '. Hahar. waHaa J,. '40, U.S. Naval Trainins Sta-. tion. Great Lakes, IIL 
IfahMMy. Ektrt W., '26, Lt, Qnartermaster Corps, Motor Transport, Camp Caraoa, Colo­rado Springs, Colo. 
Hahaaey, J«h> P.. '38. Pvt, Ainy Air Corps. Sqdn. 920. Group C. Section 22. Rm. M7. At­lantic City. N. J. 
Mini—. Jaaea J , ex. '37. A/C. Pilot-Army Air 
Corps, A.AJ'., F.T.D., Cal-Aero, Ontario^ Calif. Ibiix, J««ph C .,'41, Corp, Fort Behroir, Va. MaiUx, Joseph D , '38, Lt., 385 Eng. Bldg, Camp 
Edwards, Mass. 
MamtMtti, Edward P.. '34. Pvt, U.S. Army Air Force, Barracks 916, 654th Tech. Sdnol Sqdn, Sioux Falls Air Base, Sioox Falls. S. Dak. 
Haifcer. Thimii P.. '40, Y3C Board of Ttrade 
BMg, Chicago^ IIL Mai^urdt, Claicnce W , '41, U.SJUt.. V-T. Martia. John J , '40, U.S.NJC V-7, Section 32. 
U.S.S. Prairie SUte, e^o Postmaster, New York <3ty. 
HastersM. Bcmard J , '40, Lt., U.S. Held Artil­lery Corps, Officers Candidate School, Class 29. Fort Sill. Okla. 
Hay, HaioU H , ex. '35, Capt, Co. H, 338th Inf.. Camp Shelby. Hiss. 
Haxar, Bdph B , '39, U.SJfJL, Hidshipman School, 609 John Jay Hall, Columbia Univer­sity, New York City. 
HcAleer. Williaa J , '31, Officers Training School, Fort Benning, Ga. McArdle. Venon D., ex. '43, I^. D, 1st Sqdn, CJLT.C.. 4th Platoon, Fort Riley, Kan. HcCaVaiy, Patrick D., '33, Lt , Canadian Army, Overseas. 
HcCartwy. Patridc J, '40, Pvt, 2nd SUtistical Control Unit, 51 S. State St.; Salt Lake Oty, Utah. 
MeCarty. Francis K.. '38, U.SJfJt., V-7. HeConneD. Henry J, ex. '37, Pvt, Hissing in action. HeCMrt. Walter P , Jr.. '42, F-2/&y-5, U.S. Naval Reserve Air Base. Glenview, HL HeOannell. Jehn N., '41, Greensboro Air Base. Greensboro. N. C. MdtonMch. Francis J.. '41. Sqdn. 2, Fli^t C, Kelly Field, Texas.. HeGiaae. Alfred J., ex. '42, Hdqs, Air Corps TVocvs, P.O. Box Y, Revere, Mass. HcHash. Edward C. '41, Hq. Det., 2nd Bn, 385th Inf., A.F.O. 76. Fort George G. Meade, Hd. HcKay. Bernard C . '42, Pfe, Candidate Class. H.B., Qnantieo, Va. McKeara. WHBaa J., ex. '43, Lt , Army Air-Corps, Ellington Field, Texas. 
McHahm. Andrew J, '35, Pvt, U.S. Army, Fi­nance Replacement Training Center, Fort Ben-. jamin Harrison, Ind. 
HcHabra. John C ex. '40, U.S. Naval Training Station, Great Lakes. 111. 
HcMthan. Bickard C '41, Pvt, Flight A. AJLF, 567 Tech. 9eh. Sqdn. (Sp.), Jefferson Barracks, Ho. 
HcNally. Dnald B , Group 2, Sq. 2, Flight B, A A J'J'.S, Class 43B, San Antonio, Texas. HcNidnba. Lavin J., '35, Cbrp, U.S. Army, 668th Eng. Co., Fort Heade, Md. Hccs. Ctrde L.. ex. '40, U.S. Naval Air Station. Corpus Christ!, Texas. Herrisa, JasMS E , ex. '41, U.S. Naval Air Sta^ tion. Corpus Christ!, Texas. Hetver, Udkud A,. '40, Pvt, Officers Candidate^ Sdiool. Fort Belvoir. Va. Meyer. Hc« y A.. '32. Lt.. In Service. New CaK edonia.' Mfc*cK Cairal A, '40. Pfc. 45 Air Base Sqdn, Barracks 19. Baer Field. Fort Wayne. Ind. MOcs. Cans* E.. '40. 191 Tank Bn, Fort Heade^ Hd. Mhrih..3a—tl J,. '37. Pvt.. Co. C. RJLC, Fort Devens. Hass. Mi«i«>in. Edward J , ex '08. Major. U.S. Army. 
Moone5% Erwin J., '41, Ensitm, U.S. Naval Air Pilot, e/o U.S. Nav.M Air Service. A.F.D., Floyd Bennett Field, Brooklj-n. N. Y. 
Moriart}-, John P., '42, U.S. Army, Co. I, Sth 
Quartermaster Regt., Camp Lee, Va. Morrison, Pan! E., '39. In Marines. Morrow, William F., '42, Pvt.. U.S. Army, Co. A. 
33rd Med. Bn., 2nd Platoon. Camp Grant, III. Atartanch, James P., '22, Lt.Com., Na\-y Air Corps, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Naughton, Frank J., *25, In .\rmy. NeiUon, Clifford C , '36. Pvt.. Co. E. 33Sth Inf., 
A.P.O. 85, Camp Shelby. Miss. Nenlle. Paul E., '42, Pvt.. U.S. Army Air Force, Miami Beach, Fla. Nigro, Joseph A., '36. U.S. Army. .\.P.O. 1S12, 
c/o Postmaster, New York City. Noble, John M., ex. '41, Lt.. Kelly Field, Te.xas. O'Brien, Charles J., '40, U.S. Army Air Corps, 
Advanced Glider School. Fort Sumner, N. Mex. O'Brien, Daniel T., '36, U.S.N.R., V-7. O'Brien, Donald P., '42, U.S. Naval Air Corps. 
S2C, U.S.N.R., U.S. Naval Resene Air Base. Glenview, 111. O'Brien, James J., '41, Pvt., Military Police Corp. Fort D.A. Russell. Marf.-i, Texas. O'Connor. Joseph E., '40, Pvt. Hq. Battery, 123 
F.A. Bn., Fort Sill, Okla. O'Connor, Ridiaid C . '41. 1st Lt., Q.M.C.. 3T.T 
Port Bn., Fort La\\-ton. Wash. O'llara, Robert E., '20. Major, Air Corps. O'Kccfe, J. Baro". '32, Lt. (j.K.), 3051 Idaho Ave.. 
N.W., WashinKton, D.C. O'Marah, Joseph P., '30. Lt.. -Aviation Cadet De­tachment, Scott Field. III. 
O'Neal, James J., '42, EnsiKn. U.S.N.R., U.S. Naval Training Station, Dartmouth ColleKe. Hanover, N. H. 
O'Neill, Lawrence T., '34. Lt. (j.g.). U.S.N.R.. Naval Air Station, Lakehurst, N. J. O'Toole, Robert J., '39. Officers Candidate School. Air Corps, Miami Beach. Fla. O'Toole, William C , '34, Personnel. 3rd Corps Area, New Cumberland. Pa. 
Petnisfaias, I.awrcnce J., '39, Ensign, U.S.N.R., District Communications Ofiice, Great Lakes, III. Fieri, Francis W., '40, 2nd Lt., U.S. Army. 24th 
Armd. Eng. Bn., Pine Camp, N. Y. Polhemns, John C, '41, Lt., Atlanta Q.M. Motor Base, O.Q.44 No. 11, Atlanta, Ga. 
Qninian, Daniel O., '38, Pvt.. Hq. Tr. Det., A.A.F. Tech. T.C., Delgado Trades School. 51G Citj-Park Ave., New Orleans, La. 
Qninn, James J., '36, 1st Lt.. Oklahoma City Air Depot, Oklahoma City. Okla. 
Qninn. Stephen B-. ex. '41, Army Air Corps, 596 Tech. Sch. Sqd., 296 Tr. Unit. Miami Beach, Fla. 
Radekt. Louis A.. Sgt., '39, 312 Tech. Sch. Sqdn. (Sp.). Air Corps Tech. Sch., Sheppard Field, Texas. 
Radcmacfaer. Robert V., '41, Pvt., U.S. Army Air Corps. 40Sth T.S.S., A.R.C.T.C.. Sheppard Field, Texas. . 
Raiolia, Joseph H., '42, P\-t., 574 Tech. Tr. Sch. Sq.. T.S. 244, A.A,F.T.T.C.. Replacement Train­ing Center. Miami Beach. Fla. 
Ratternun, Carl B., ex. '37. Navj- Unit, State 
Hospital, Imala, Calif. Ray, James R., e-x. '42. Ensign, U.S.N.R. Reran, John F.. ex. '43. Corp.. U.S. Army, Hq. & 
Hq. Sqdn. A.A.F.T.T.C.. Replacement Training Center, Miami Beach, Fla. Rejent, Ranald P.. '41. C.R.T. 3. P.Sq.B., Army Air Base. Salt Lake City. Utah. Roach, Georce T.. ex. '39. Pvt. 591 T.S.S, Flight A-485, Keesler Field, Miss. Roth, Jesse H„ '10, Major, U.S. Army Med. Corps, Atlanta, Ga. Ryan, Daniel P., '38, In Service, Air Force. 


FORWARDERS. BEWARE! 
When a copy of the -A.LUMNUS is forwarded to a man in military service, or to anybody else, addi­tional postage is required on the envelope. The postage paid at the publication point does not, for this class of mail, suffice for forward­ing, according to Post Office De­partment regulations. If additional postage is not added, the magazine is merely returned to the Alumni Office, Notre Dame. 
For obvious reasons, the Alumni Office much prefers to use ordinari­ly the home addresses of military men rather than their fast-chang­ing military addresses, and will ap­preciate the cooperation of the people at home in forwarding the ALUMNUS and other alumni mail. 
Sanford, Robert G.. '40. Prt.. Barracks 428. Hq. Area. Recruiting Reception Center. Fort Sheri­dan. III. Sajer. John W.. ex. '32. 1st Lt.. Madison Bar­racks. N. Y. Scanlan, John M.. '32. Capt. 93rd Signal Bn.. Camp Crowder. Mo. Scanian. William E.. '42. P\t . Public Relations Office. BIdg. 208. Fort Sheridan. III. Schager, Richard J., '35, 425 Signal Co.. Hamilton Field, De Witt Calif. Schlcck, Raymond M., '39, Pvt.. Blry. A. 399th Armd. F.A. Bn., A.P.O. 258, Fort Knox, Ky. Schmit. Robert P., "40. U.S. Army Signal Corps. Schrciber, Edward J., '41, 2nd Lt. Mitchell Field. N.Y. Schrenkcr. Henry P., '42, Ensign, U.S. Naval Air Corps. U.S. Naval Pre-Flight School, Iowa University, Iowa City, Iowa 
Schulze. Robert J., '29. 1st Lt.. Medical Sanitary Corps, Medical Section. Chicago Q.M. Depot 251 
E. Grand Ave., Chicago. III. 
Senson, Thomas J., ex. '39. 2nd Lt., U.S. Army Air Corps, McChord Field, Tacoma, Wash. 
Settles, Merle L., '35, 1st Lt, 231st Signal Opera­tions Co., Camp Crowder, Mo. 
Sctzer. William P.. ex. '35, Pi-t. U.S. Army. Re­ception Center 1229. Co. C. Barracks 7. Fort Dix. N. J. 
Shceiian, Clarence T.. '40. Co. C. 12th Regt. QM. Replacement Training Center. Camp Lee. Va. Sheehan. Peter J., '38. U.S. Army. Pine Camp. 
Watertown. N.Y. 
Sheehan, Thomas E.. '39. Air Cadet. U.S.A.A.C.. Army Air Force Basic Flying School, Goodfel­low Field, San Angelo. Texas. 
Sheehy, James E., '30. Station Hospital. Pine Camp. Watertown. N. Y. 
Shields. Joseph M., '42, U.S. Naval Air Corps, Naval Aviation Flight Training School. Univer­sity of North Carolina. Chapel Hill, N.C. 
Shortall, John G., *40, In Sen-ice—Army Air Corps. Simon, Ralph H., ex. '44. 2nd Lt, Army. 
Simpson, Robert L.. *41. Aviation Cadet Barracks 
94. Room 8. A.C. Det. Shaw Field. Sumter, S.C. 
Sixsmith, William L., '38, Chief of Tank Section, Legal Branch. Pittsburgh Army Ord. District. 1202 Chamber of Commerce BIdg.. Pittsburgh. Pa. 
Smith. Donald L., '38, Ensign, U.S. Naval Air Service, Pensacola, Fla. 
Smith, Leonard J„ e.\. '40, 2nd Lt, Fort Benning. 
Ga. Sobczak, Joseph A.. '40, In Navy. Y2C. Soisson. John R., '33. Lt. (j.g.). U.S.N.R.. Box 
151. Blacksburg. Va. Steffaniak. Richard J.. '40. Det Q.M. Corps. Erie Proving Ground. La Carne. O. 
Stnbbins, Frederick R., Jr., '40. Aviation Cadet Naval Air Corps. BIdg. 723. Rm. 141 Naval Air Station. Jacksonville, Fla. 
Snllivan, Francis J., '40, Pvt, Co. A, 1213 Re­ception Center, Fort Niagara, N.Y. 
Snllivan, James F.. '38. Pvt . Btry. A, 70th C.A. (A.A.). A.P.O. 502, c/o Postmaster. San Fran­cisco, Calif. 
Sullivan, Joseph D., '36. Lt. (A-V(S). U.S.N.R.. Naval Air Transport Sqd., U.S. Naval Reserve Aviation Base. Kansas City, Kan. 
Sutherland. Jesse O., *42. Army Air Corps. Luke Field. Ariz. Sweeney. Edward J., '30. Pvt.. Co. C. 7th Bn.. O.R.T.C., Aberdeen Proving Ground. Md. 
Sweenj-. Robert E.. '40. U.S.N.R.. V-7. Section 35. U.S.N.R., U.S.S. Prairie State. c|o Postmaster, New York City. 
Swift. James P.. '24. Lt.. U.S.N.R. 
Tafcl, Paul J., '42. Cadet Na\-y Air Corps, Class 8A. V-5, Lambert Field, Mo. Tapscott, Leo J., e-x. '42. U.S.N.R.. Naval Train­ing School St. Mary's College. Calif. Timmel. Robert P.. '42, U.S. Army, D-431, R.R.C.. Fort Sheridan. III. Tobin. James W., '29, Capt, Army Medical Corps. 
P. Reily General Hospital. Springfield, Mo. Torresson, Thomas S., ex. '39, Capt., Army Air Corps, Brooks Field, Texas. Tottcn, Francis X., ex. '34. Ensign. U.S.N.R.. Washington. D.C. Tracey. James H., '42. Pfc. 7 Candidates Class, Marine Barracks. Quantico. Va. 
Tmeman. Thomas J., '41, Pvt, 622nd T.S.S.. A.A.F.T.S.. Barracks 139. Army Airport. Mad­ison. Wis. 
Twomcy. Ted A., '30. L t (j.g.). U.S.N.R., 2935 Post, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Umhoefer, Richard P., '39. C.A.S.C. 1908, Camp Cooke, Calif. Urbanski, Louis A., '40, Pvt, Co. K. Ordnance 
• Officers Candidate School, Aberdeen Proving Grounds. Md. 
Var^a. James A.. '40. Communications, Harvard University, Cambridge. Mass., U.S.N.R. 
Walker, John W.. '36. In Army. Walsh, Bernard A., '29. Camp Cooke. Calif. Walters. Wllilam H., '27, 1st Lt. U.S. Army. Co. 
A, 93rd Signal Bn., Camp Crowder. Mo. Ward, John S.. '38. Ensign. U.S.N.R.. 1320 Nich­olson St. N.W.. Washington. D.C. Weaver. Rex. E., '38, Sgt., U.S. Army. P.O. Box 416, Cincinnati, O. Weidner, Joseph J., ex. '40, 2nd Lt, Advanced Flying School. Kelly Field, Texas. Weiss. Joseph C , '37. Pvt. 2nd Ord. Co. (M.M.). 
For Sam Houston. Texas. Weiss, MUton H., ex. '38, Corp., Fort Bliss. Texas. Welch. John M., '40, U.S.N.R.. V-7. Welch. W. Harold, '24, Capt, Army Air Corps 
Reserve. Officers Training School, Miami Beach. Fla. 
West. Forrest R., '31. Lt.. U.S. Engineers Area Office. Corps of Engineers. Nichols General Hos­pital. Louisville. Ky. 
Whelchan, William T., '39. In Service. 
Williams, Milton E.. '41, Corp.. 9th Co., 3rd Stu­dent Tr. Regt O.S. 84, Harmony Church Area. Fort Benning, Ga. 
WiUmann, John B., '40. Ensign. U.S.N.R,. U.S.S. Harry Lee. c/o Postmaster. New York City. 
Yo«nr, Murray A., '29. Prt.. Second General Hos­pital. Fort Meade. Md. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

THE ALUMNI 
FOR GOD, COUNTRY, NOTRE DAME. 
IN GLORY 

Ensign Fergus Ford Kelly, B.S. in 
C.E. '37, of HoUis, N. Y., met his death in air combat on Sunday, Aug. 9. 
ENSIGN FERGUS FOBD KELLY, '37 

When he enlisted in the Navy Air Corps in December, 1940, Ferg was an an engineering assistant in the Oifice of the Borough President, having worked on the East River Drive and with the Tunnel Authority on the Mid-town Tun­nel in New York. He was commissioned as an ensign on September, 1941, at Jacksonville, Fla., and assigned to flying patrol bombers. First he was sent to Hawaii, then to duties in the Pacific and finally to the Alaska area where he was killed. 
Four hundred of Ferg's former fellow workers in New York attended a memo­rial Mass for him on Aug. 27 in St. An­drew's Church. The Notre Dame Club of New York City was represented at the Mass by several members of the Board of Governors and the club later had a special Mass oifered for the re­pose of Ferg's soul. 
Surviving him are Ferg's parents and a sister. 
Lieut. William P. Marsh, '41, of Hines, Ore., was killed in a bomber crash on Signal Hill near Post Falls, Idaho, early in July. He had been married on March 28 to Davida Craddock of Seneca, Ore. 
 EVERLASTING 
Bill, a former resident of Alexandria, La., attended Bolton High School there before moving with his parents to Ore­gon. He was graduated from high school in Hines. Shortly after his graduation from Notre Dame he entered the Army Air Corps and received his wings at Luke Field, Ariz., in the spring of 1942. At the time of his death he was stationed in Spokane, Wash. 
LIEUT. WILLIAM P. MARSH, '41 

Lieut. Edward J. Schreiber, '41, was killed in an air crash in northern New Jersey on Sept. 24, when he apparently tried to set down his falling pursuit plane in the Clinton reservoir near New­foundland, N. J. He missed the water, crashed into a boulder and into the woods at the shore of the artificial lake. Ex­ploding machine gun bullets and blazing gasoline made rescue impossible. 
Ed had only a few weeks previously been graduated at Luke Field, Phoenix, Ariz., and commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Army Air Corps. He had been recently assigned to LaGnardia Field, New York. 
Surviving Ed are his parents of Roch­ester, Minn., and three sisters, one of whom is Rose Marie Schreiber, a mem­ber of the Alumni Office staff. His brother, Alfred J. Schreiber, C.S.C, M.A. 
» 

'32, was drowned in 1936 while in at­tendance at the Holy Cross seminarian summer camp at Oakland, Md. 
LIEUT. EDWARD J. SCHREIBER, '41 

Francis V. Quackenbusli, ex. '38, from Albany, N. Y., died in an Eastern Army camp recently, according to word from Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C, who is an Army chaplain. Father Woodward administered the Last Sacraments to^ Frank. 
Engagements 
Hiss Billie Smith. Frederick. Md., and S(t. Harold A. WiUiams. Jr.. '38, Baltimore. 
Marriages 
Correction: Lt. Joseph P. Prenderrmst, '36, and Miss Marianne I^acomble -vvere - married on May 30 at Fort Walters, Texas. The June issue of the "Alamnus" was in error in listing the bride's name as "LaClombe." 
Mrs. Elizabeth Sackley Davis and J. PSHI Foffartr, *17, -n-ere. married on August 1 in Cbi­cago. 
The marriage of Miss Margaret Catherine Cos-grave and Capt. Donald J. Wilkins, *27. took place on July 18 in Omaha, Xebr. 
Hiss Marie Lucas and Pa«I E. Bersan. ex. '36, were married on July 11 in the Log Chai>el, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Lynn Garrett and Lt. WilliaH J. Bailey, '37, took place on Aug. 4 in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Miss Sue Tbarp and Bfelvilfe W. Mix, '37. \Tere married recently -in Muncie, Ind.. 
The marriage of Miss Jane Healy and Bernard 
W. CaUen* Jr^ *38, took place recently. 
Hiss Susan Janet Swanson and Philip H. Cany, ex. '38, were married on July 11 in Los Angeles. 
The marriage of Miss Grace Elizabeth Reidy and Martin J. Hosanr, *38, took place on Aug. 29 in Chicago. 
Miss Kathryn Louise Gabel and Lt- John L. Crane. *40, -were married on Aug. 19 in the Log Chat>el. Notre Dame. James C. Daner, '40, was the best man. 

Hie marriage of Miss Doris Ellen Bianucci and rffuiff n EoKcne T. Leonard, Jr., '40. took place recently in Naperville, III. 
Miss Mary Jane Feldner and Sgt.yMaj. James 
W. Pfaunmer, *40, were married on Aug. 6 in Zanesville, O. 
Tite marriage of Miss Gloria Hetterich and Malcolm B. Fraser, ex. '41, took place on June 13 in Elmhurst, K. Y. 
Miss Vivian Werner and Lt. Leo S. Hillebrand, Jr., Ml, were married on Auff. 31 in Toledo, O. 
The marriage of Miss Dorothy Anne Blacker and Carl J. Kcgelmaycr, '41, took place on Sept. 5 in Columbus, O. 
Miss Arlene Acton and Ensign J. Richard Ker­rican, '41, were married on May 23 at Notre Dame. 
Hic marriage of Miss Dorothy Baker and Maurice F. Stander, '41, took place on June 20 in Litchfield, 111. Lawrence F. Stauder, '29, brother of the bridegroom, was the best man. 
Miss Jane Schoonover and Corp. Thomas M. Hoban, '42, were married on Aug. 29 in South Bend. 

The marriage of Bliss Marjory Barbara Rein­hold and Ensicn James R. Ray. ex. '42, took ^lac e on June 30 in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Dunn. '27, Morris, III., are the parents of a son bom July 3. 

// A daughter, Carolyn Anne, was born to Mr. ''an d Mrs. Vincent F. Carney, '29, on July 2 in Rochelle, 111. 
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen J. Green, *30, announce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Catherine, on June 13 in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Flynn, M.A. '31, are the parents of a son, Michael Stephen, born Aug. 20. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Johnston, '33, Harrisburg, Pa., on Sept. 11. 
A son, Dennis Hmothy, II, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Roccr P. Brennan, '33, on Oct. 23. 1941, in Cleveland. 
A son, Philip Joseph, 3rd, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. FUlip J. Faherty, '33, Lambertville, N. J., on Auff. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. Howard J. Gillespie, *34, Granville, O., announce the birth of a son, Michael Peter, CT^pril 6. 

y A son, Walter Edward, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. JsMes S. Keanu, '34. on Aug. 15, in Chi-CBffO. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Donald K. Mdntodi* *34, recently in Chicago. 
A daughter, Rosemary, was bom to -Mr. and Mrs. Alfred D'Anora, '35. on Aug. 26 In Phila­delphia. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold F. GMbcl. *35, are the parents of a daughter, bom July 23 in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert H. Kenline, '35, announce the birth of Michael Henry on Aug. 3 in Du­buque, la. 
A daughter. Barbara Elaine, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Cliaries T. Williamsen, '35. in Elm­hurst. N. y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Adrian J. Wadcerman, *35. Phila­delphia, are the parents of a daughter. Marie, bom Aug. 8. 
A daughter. Mary Rita, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Conal J, Byrne, '36, Drexel Hill, Pa., on Aug. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert R. Moty, '36, announce the birth of a daughter, Anne Marie, on Sept. 1 in B«ff^. Ore. 
^ daughter, Judith Kathryn. was born to Mr. and Mrs. Louis C. Fchlir. '37, on July 9, in St. liouis. ^ 

\ ,Mx, and Mrs. Harry E. Ponlin, *37, are the parents of a daughter, bom Sept. 1 in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. John M. Wallacb, '37. Brooklyn. 
N. Y., announce the birth of a son. Christopher Simms, on July 31, 
A daughter, Elizabeth Ann. was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Burnett C. Bauer, '38, on July 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. Carl F. Irwin, '38, are the par­ents of Ellen Beth, born Aug. 13 in Wilmington, Del. 
*. A'^on. Lawrence Theodore, was bom to Mr. knd Mrs. Joseph W. Kmpa, ex. *38. Rickreall, Ore., on Aug. 8. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold F. Langton, '38, Baltimore. Md., announce the birth of t\^*in sons. John Francis and Michael Joseph, bom Aug. 12. 

AJrfr. and Mrs. John F. Plonff, '38. are the par­ents of a daughter, bom on July 25 in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Emerson M. Hynes, M.A. *39, are the parents of a son, Dennis, born July 24. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John 
C. Hynes, '39. on Aug. IS in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. Blaher, '39. announce the birth of twins.^ Donna Jean and Thomas An­drew, on May 3 in Detroit. 

t John Joseph Clemens, 3rd. was bom to Mr. W d Mrs. John J. Clemens, Jr., '39. on Sept. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. Juan E. Cintron, '40. announce the birth of a son on Aug. 15, in South Bend. 
A son. Bruce, was bom on Aug. 31 to Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Nolan. '41, in Attleboro, Mass. 

\ ^PVisdlla Anne was bom to Mr. and Mrs. ''William B. Mooney, '41. Waverly. la., on July 10. 
r H^an d Mrs. Hawley E. VanSwaU, '41, Syra­cp^. N. Y., announce the birth of a daughter. Kathryn Marshon. on Aug. 16. 
Deaths 
In the midst of a dramatic plea for the sick and the suffering. John Griffin Mott, LL.B. "95. Idtt.B. '96, collsvsed from a heart attack on Jnly 23 and died two hours later in Los Anedes. 
- A'pioneer I^os Angeles attorney and civic lead­er, the 67-year-old Mr. Mott was making a warm plea before the Board of Supervisors for a reduc­tion in the assessed valuation of charitable in­stitutions. 
Ihiming to a group of Sisters of Charity from St. Vincent's Hospital, Mr. Mott said: "These Sisters are giving their lives—" 
Then he wavered and fell to the floor. He was immediately attended by the priests and nuns present. 
Mr. Mott won a Master of Laws degree from the Catholic University after finishing his courses at Notre Dame. Entering the practice of law in Los Angeles he quickly became one of the lead­ing citizens of the fast-growing community, active and self-sacrificing in charitable agencies par­ticularly. He specialized in probate law and cor­poration law and was active in the Republican party; he was delegate to several Republican nr­ticnal conventions. As a close friend of Herbert Hoover, he accompanied the former president on his good-will tour to South America in 1929. 
Mr. Mott. himself a pioneer, was descended from California pioneers; his mother was a mem­ber of the Sepulveda family, famous in early Cali­fornia history; his father was Thomas D. Mott. often called "the father of Ix>s Angeles." To this union five children were bom and of these one sister sur\'ives. Mrs. Georgia Vanderleck. She joins the widow and a daughter, Mrs. James Howard McCarthy, in mourning Mr. Mott. The late Thomas D. Mott, '95, and the late Y. L. Mott. ex. '00, were two brothers. 
Joseph C. Smith, a student at Notre Dame in 1889-91. and again in 1894-95, died in Chicago on Sept. 20. He was the only survivor of 11 children, two of whom aie widely known in the annals of the Congregation of Holy Cross. One was a sis­ter, who became Sister M. Eudocia, C.S.C. 
The other was a brother, Charles, who became Brother Alexander, C.S.C., rector of Carroll Hall and teacher of mathematics, one of the great fig­ures of the early Notre Dame. It was Brother Alexander who supervised the rebuilding after the fire of 1879. 
Into the new Notre Dame he wove not only his own ability but the deep interest and affection of his young brother, Joseph. In recent years, the distinguished figure of Joseph G. Smith has been, until illness interfered, regularly seen at Com­mencements, football games, and all of the major ceremonies of the University year. His interest was followed up by several substantial bene­factions. 
Long a resident of the Chicago Beach Hotel, his activities in Catholic movements In Chicago added much to Notre Dame's interests there. His un­derstanding, his loyalty and .his encouragement of these movements will be greatly' missed. Mr. Smith was buried in Watertown. Wis., his original home, where his family first came in contact with the Congregation of Holy Cross in the '70s. A nephew, Joseph Neuhaus, ex. '32. and a niece. Genevieve Mullen, survive him. 
Chailes N. Girsch, of Chicago, a student at Notre Dame from 1889 to 1898. died on Aug. 28. Mr. Girsch was for many years one of the most active members of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago. He was a charter member of St. Philip Neri Council. K. of C , in Chicago. Surviving are his wife, two sons and a daughter. 
Jaaeph J. Sheekcy, of South Bend, a student and varsity football player at Notre Dame in 1899­1902, died suddenly'on July 20. Surviving are two usters and a brother. One of the sisters is the 'wife of Joseph B. Murphy. '11, of Dayton. O. 

J. Bemaid Wathen, Jr., on the campus as a student in 1899. died on July 15 in Louisville. He was the father of J. Bernard Wathen, in , ex. '28, and R. Norvelle Wathen, '27. and the brother of Otho H. Wathen. also a Notre Dame student in 1899. 
Mr. Wathen, a member of the fourth generation of a family of Kentucky distillers, retired as vice-president of the American Medicinal Spirits* division of the National Distillers Products Cor­poration in 1935. He was bom in Lebanon. Ky.. where his sreat-grandfather established a distil­lery in 1788. 
John B. HcMahon, A.B. '09, one of the most prominent attorneys of Toledo, O., died on Sept.. 
9. Hr. HcHahon received his law degree from Harvard in 1912. 
William H. Camll. Dayton, O.. a Notre Dame student in 1904-07, died on Sept.. 7 at the age of 54 years. One of the most prominent Catholic citi­zens of the community, Hr. Carroll was a past grand knight of the Dayton Knights of Columbus, and he spoke often to Catholic groups throughout the state. He was an engineer for the National Cash Begister Co. Surviving are his wife and five children. 
Henry J. Arnutrang, Jr., a Notre Dame student in 1907-11, died on Aug. 25 in Chicago. He is survived by two sons and two sisters. 
John D. Dodge, a student in 1910-11. died on Aug. 15 in Detroit. 
Edward S. Shecfay, e.x. '16. production manager of the Quaker Oats Co.. Chicago, died in his home on July 26. With his brother, Harry Car­roll Sheehy. he resided in Walsh Hall in 1912-14, according to a note from Rig Sackley. '17. Chi­cago. _ 
Mother M. Verda, C.S.C, M.A. '21. Ph.D. '25. provincial of the midwestem province of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, died on Sept. 20 in Ann Arbor, Mich., after a brief illness and an operation. Before her election as provincial. Mother Verda was a professor of philosophy at St. Mary's for many years. 
the "Alumnus" e::tends sincere sympathy to: Grsttan T. Stanford, ^04, upon the death of his mother; BI. Emraett Walter, '14, upon the death of his mother; Anthony, ex. '25. and Rndolph Goepfriik, '26, upon the death of their father: Henry P., '28. J. Edward, '29, and Arthur A. BMn, '36, upon the death of their mother; Frederick Langhna, '33, upon the death of his wife; Donald, '33, and Peter Losaidi, ex. '45, upon the death of their mother: Carlos H. Frank. '33,. upon the death of his wife; Frauds P. 
^Shapiro, '36, upon the death of his father; Louis 
G. Alaraan, '37, upon the death of his mother: 
J. Kenneth, '38, James R., ex. '40. and Robert S. Veeneman, ex. '40, upon the death of their mother; Adalph Kamm, '40, upon the death of his wife: 
^'Bernard A. Crimmihs, '42, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
Before 1890 Caap, New
 Oitaua, La. 

Alamnl Centrihator. 1942-43 Charles J. Stubbs, Galveston, Texas. Patridc E. Barke was recently re-elected vice-
supreme master of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus in the DeSoto Province, which in­cludes all the southern states, Cuba, Panama and Mexico. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
I QOn OO ""• '-^' KMNaaan. -n. 
• OTU-T T Sahit jMcik'a MbMial WtH^k Ibn t ClMMu^IIkk. Alumni CmttibBtai*. lMX-43 
James A. McKee, Versailles, Ky.; Arthur T. Simpson, Dallas, Tex.: Christivher C. KtxgeraM, Havana, Cuba; Maurice D. Kirby, Lansing, Mich.; Albert J. Dannemiller, Brooklyn: Martin J. Schnur, Gosiien, Ind.; Rev. John A. MacNamara (additional contribution). From Father Blac: 
. . . All the old students of the middle '90's will read with sorrow of the death of Jaha G. Hott of Los Angeles. He took part in all the ac­tivities of his day at the University. He was an exceptionally fine actor and any one wlio saw his portrayal of Cardinal Ridielieu at the '9C Commencement will never forget it. His career after leaving Notre Dame was a continuance of his marked success while there. May lie rest in peace I 
I OtVX /\A ''"^•^ ^ Pnetar, 'N. Manser I r\JU-\j*T Building. Elkhart. Ind. Alumni Contributors. 1M2-43 Anthony F. Dorley, Glendale. Ho.; William G. Ferstel. Chicago; Francis H. McKeever, Chicago: Francis X. Ackermann, Notre Dame: Ihoraas J. Jones (three contributions). Indianapolis; Byron 
V. Kanaley, Chicago; James R. Record, Fort Worth, Texas; Grattan T. Stanford, New York City: Anton C. Stephan, Chicago; Harry W. Zolper. Rapid City, S. Dak. 
Henry Brown and liis wife of Hasbrooek Heights, N. J., were visitors on the campus on Aug. 13, with Vitas'Jones of South Bend. Mr. Bron-n was a teacher at Notre Dame from 1902­1904 and received his LL.B. at Fordham in 1939. 
I w\JD-\Jr '07. Natie Dww. Iiri. Alamnl Contrihatan, IMZ-M 
William A. Daunt, Rockville Centre.- N. Y.: William N. Rosier, Louisville; James A. Dubbs, Cleveland; James V. Canningham. Chicago: Ray­mond (Dike) J. Scanlon, New York City; William 
D. Jamieson, Chicago. 
I A I A Reverend M. L. Mariarty. Saint Kuy'a 
I # I U Church, Mentor. O. 
Alamni Conttlhatar. lMX-13 William C. Schmitt, Portland, Ore. BiU Schmitt and his wife, from Portland, Ore.. 
stopped at Notre Dame on Aug. 14 on their way from New York and Washington on a business trip. They also reported seeing Red MOkr in Wil­mington and Frank Call in Cleveland. They also visited with Jap Lawton in South Bend. 
 Fred Stcen. liM Fbat Naliaui Baak 

ml 
I BUr.. CUcaca^ m. Alumni Contribatais, 1M2-43 

Edward L. Flgel, Chicago: Elmo A. Funk, Anderson. Ind.; Edward J. Glynn, Springfield. Mass.; Arthur J. Hughes, Chicago: Jasper H. Lawton (two contributions). South Bend: Edmund 
J. Quinn. Rockville Centre, N. Y.; Edward J. Story, Elk (Hty, Okla.; Fred L. Steers, CHiicago. 
Fred Stecn, first vice-president of the Amateur Athletic Union, recently wrote two fine editorials for issues of the oflScial publication of the Union, "The Amateur Athlete." One was entitled "Compe­tition or Regimentation?" the other "The Will to , Win." 
 J. Kaiser. 314 Flaaitk St.. Fttta­

kanh. Pa. Alamni Contrikatets, IMZ-U Veo J. Condon, Pana, III.: Walter Duncan. La-Salle. III.: Rev. Edward J. Howard, Brandon, Vt.; 
1912 R. 
John P. Murphy, Cleveland: Leo A. Sehaandwr, Mt. Vernon, HI. 
lOlO" ^ "• •y ^ DaHeiritr Utaair. iTldNaln Daa*. bt. 
Ahnud CaattOatars. lf4I-4S 

Richard V. Blake, Broddyn; Clyde E. Brons^ sard. Beaumont, Texas; Morgan E. Cartier. Grand Rapids, Midi.: Jaasnh R. O^alSl^, Clayton. Mo. 
A Ka.0Wyi^ 
Carbon "-^ ew Y< of the company^ 
H. Hajai^ MX Ifeisl As*.. 

1914 
Chala Tiita. CilU. 
Alaaod Caatritatais. 1MX4S 

CSedl E. Krder. Notre Dane: George T. Han­lon. Jr. (additional eontrflmtion) Detroit; Wil­liam J. Sherry. TUsa: John G. Speidel. VmmM^g Pa. 
B. SaafnCStM Av*. 

l9l5o 
CUcacau m. 
Ahnud Caatribatan. IMX-U 

Joseph R. Fkrrdl. Camp Hill. Fa.: James A. Mathews, Milwaukee; Dr. J. J. CDoanell, Alpena. Mich. 
The class secretary, Jim Saafaid, is the mana­ger of the merchandising department of the Chi­cago "Sun." and has been since last January. 
|A| # GiOTrcr Miller. « • WiscaHia Ava.. I 7 lOsadw. Wis, 
Ahuani Caatrikatars^ 1S4X-M 

Jacob E. Eckel, Solvay, N. Y.: Allen W. Fritxadie, Elyria. Ohio: Timothy P. Gahin. Bam­ramd. Ind.: Charles' E. Lentx Sooth Bend; 
•nioosaa
 A. HeLanghlin. Detroit: Dr. Jcfcmiah 

A.
 McCarthy, Whiting, Ind.: Paul J. Smith, New York City. 


From Grave MiBcr: Ineompleta records indicate that the majority of tile class of I91S are serving in inqxvtaat war efforts. Fifteen are dead and 97 ara aliva or miss­ing. Naturally, most of us are too fat and soft to . actually carry guns. 
Several indicate that they will try to see at least one Notra Dame game at iehool this faU. Keep your eyes open for some of your buddies 
A letter will go forward to eadi dasa member within a few weeks asidng the latest report on the war effort. A complete story will be in the next isme. 
 M« B. TMt St. 

l9l7Li Val. Ahnud CntrOatati. UU-43 Raymond J. Graham. Oak Park. ID.; Danid E. Hilgartner. CHiieago: Howard R. nrkcr. San Francisco: Bernard J. Voll. Sooth Bend. 
1918 
Mkm A. Lcmmcr. N l Laka Shan Driva. 
Ahnud Ctatrihataia. IMX-U 

Frank L. Cullinan. Chicago: George E. Har­liert, Chicago; Edward J. Reynolds. Maiden. Mass.; Joseph T. Riley. Muskegon, Midu; Peter 
J. Ronchetti, Riverside; IlL; Louis E. Wagner. Brooklyn; Rev. Charles J. Williams. Rantonl, RI.; Clyde J. Zoia. Woodstock. HI. 
-. (M Pima 8L. Qmr.

1919 
Ahmai Caatritalan, IMMS 

Clarence W. Bader. GaiT. Ind.; Loois C. FMtdi. Sooth Bend; Frauds C. King. East HbUne. HI:; ¥nak R. Loekard (Additional). ToMo: Valda Wrape. St. Loois. 
I 7Z U Ancdes, Calif. 
AInmni Contributors, 1942-43 
Edward J. Meehan. South Bend; Elwyn M. Moore (two contributions). Stursis, Mich.; Clif­ford O'SuIlivan, Port Huron, Mich.: Joseph D. Rosenthal, Beloit. Wis. 
1921 
 Daffy. 1600 Terminal Tower, Dmn W. O. 
OeTeUnd. Alamni Contributors, 1942-13 

Thomas V. Bollard, Troy, N. Y.: Gerald J. Craugh. New York City; Donald J. Keenan. Aurora, III.; Joseph M. Maap, St. Louis; Ralph 
E. Sjoberg, Kewanee. 111. 
I AOO ^"^ ^ Aihe. 46 West Avenue, Hilton. I YZZ N. Y. 
Abimni Contributors, 1942-43 

Gerald A. Ashe. Hilton, N. Y.; Frank B. Bloemer, Jr., Pewee Valley. Kj-.; William A. A. Castellini. Cincinnati; William J. Daly, Philadel­phia ; James R. Dooley, North Andover, Mass.; Edward J. Dundon, Iron Mountain, Mich.; James 
S. Foren. Jr., Detroit: Robert P. Galloway, Los Angeles; Leo C. Graf. Cleveland Heights. Ohio; George F. Heneghan. Chicago; John T. Higgins. Detroit; Aaron H. Hug^uenard. South Bend; R. Gerald Jones, Dixon, 111.; Dr. Thomas L. Keefe, Logansport. Ind.; Cletus E. Lynch. Peoria, III.; Thomas S. McCabe. Chicago; James E. Murphy, Bridgeport. Conn.; Daniel J. O'Connell, Holyoke. Mass.; Edward H. Pfeiffer (additional contribu­tion), Louisville; Paul J. Pfohl, Chicago: John 
•
M. Rice. Cleveland; Walter J. Stuhldreher. In­dianapolis; James R. Waldron, Saranac Lake, 

N.
 Y. 


In the last issue of the ALUMNUS, we gave some brief sketches of 1922 men which informa­tion to a great extent was obtained through the medium of postal questionnaires mailed out to ascertain the number of class members who could attend Commencement last May. As promised, we continue the show: 
Aaron Hocoenard — South Bend; attorney. Gerald Jones—^Dixon, III; 2" children ; attorney— self. James Jones—^Rochester, N. Y. 3 children; attorney—self. Dr. Tom Keefe—^Max^vell Field. Ala. Captain, U. S. Army, attached to Station Hospital: 2 children. Cyril KcIIctt — Milford, Mass.; 6 children; Owner, Pearl Street Market-Gene Kennedy—Los Angeles, Calif.; Trust Officer, Bank of America. 
Cletns Lyndt—^Peoria, III.; traveling representa­tive. Lion . Ribbon Co. of N. Y. Pat Manion— South Bend; Dean of Law at N. D. Bernard Mc­Caffery—South Bend; postmaster. Rev. Bro. 
P. D. McCarthy^—Chicago; principal of Leo High School. Paul McDennott—St. Paul, Minn.; secre­tary and treasurer, McDermott Realty Co. 
HarxT Mehre—University, Jliss.; 2 children; athletic director and head coach of football. Uni­versity of Mississippi. Tom S. McCabe—Chicago; executive secretary, Chicago Carpet. Upholstery and Drapery Association, 11 South LaSalle St. James Harpby—Bridgeport. Conn.; 2 children; judge of the Superior Court of Connecticut. Con­gratulations are extended to Dr. and Mrs. Daniel Sexton of St. Louis on the arrival of their first born—a daughter on Aug. 29. Dr. Matt Weis and wife of St. IJOUIS were discovered in Old St. Mary's, Chicago, one Sunday in late August. Last reports had Capt. Charles "Red** Crowley of Boston headed overseas about August 1. He is with the Army aircraft intelligence service. Art Vallez, who has been on our missing list for a long time, lives in Wilmette, 111. In business he is associated w^ith the Dorr Co. Inc., Engineers, 221 North LaSalJe St. Chicago. "VMio does not recall Jim Wheeler of the old Badin Hall days? Recently Jim was honored witli the presidency of the Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee. Jim resides 
at 6060 N. Kent Ave., Milwaukee. He is married, and has 3 children—Jim, Jr., is a plebe at An­napolis, age 20. and daughters Constance and Joan are aged 1S and 16. respectively. Papa Wheeler, who is on a leave of absence from a chemical firm, is' conducting a column captioned "Chemysteries" in the Milwaukee "Journal.** Your reporter had a most enjoyable visit with John "Tnffj-** Hart ant] wife in Syracuse. N. Y.. last summer. John is general manager of Niagara Motor Eb:press, Inc. 
AI Scolt, state president of the Eagles organi­zation in California, visited the campus on Aug. 18 after stopping in Chicago for the Eagles na­tional convention. 

Arnold McGrath is stationed at the headquarters of the San Francisco Fort of Embarkation. Over­seas Supply Division. Oakland Branch, Oakland, Oilif. 
Bill Castellini, ' now in Cincinnati with the Chamber of Commerce, made the front pages of the Cincinnati papers in June in connection with Marlene Dietrich's bond-selling appearance in the Queen City. The two stars were photographed to­gether. 
I OO? ^*°^ ^ Castner, 137 South Ave. New 1/^ 0 Canaan, Conn. Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 Murray J. Booth, Jersey City. N. J.; Dr. C. J. Caldwell. Cleveland; Eugene N. Daly, Jr., Syra­cuse, N. Y.: Joseph F. Donaldson, Louisville; Edwin F. Feldman. Glendale, Calif.; Daniel F, Foley, Leavenworth, Kas.; Carlton B. Haino (Army). Michigan Center. Mich.; Charles M. Martin, Detroit; Richard " J. Nash. Chicago; George J. O'Grady, Chicago: Cornelius J. Pfeiffer, Louisville. 
I TZ H New York City. Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 Dr. Har\*ey F. Brown, Detroit: Thomas E. Cooke, Chicago; Thomas C. Donovan, Chicago; Thomas L. Donovan, Indianapolis; F, Jerome Fox, Chilton. Wis.; George H. Glynn. Springfield. Mass.; Thomas E. Gordon, Chicago; Eugene A. Mayl. Dayton, Ohio; Raymond L. McGee, Darien. Conn.; Richard C. Miller, Lynbrook. N. Y.; Charles O. Molz, Detroit: Timothy J. Murphy. Jr., Wethers­field, Conn. Jim Swift has been commissioned a lieutenant in the Naval Reser\'e. 
I TZ O Toledo, O. 
Alumni Contributors, 1942^43 

William R. Bell. Rochester. N. Y.; William H. Benitz. Brightwaters, N. Y.; George A. Bischoff. Indianapolis; Maurice J. Boland, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Herman G. Centlivre, Fort Wayne. Ind.; Walter J. Cyr, Stamford, Conn.; Charles W. Donahue, New York City; Paul D. Hoeffler, East Greenwich, R. I.; Joseph A. Hogan. South Bend; John P. Hurley, Jr.. Toledo; Clarence J. Kaiser. Royal Oak, Mich.; Thomas A. Loftus. Brooklyn; Charles M. Mouch. Sandusky. Ohio; Walter J. Metzger, Wilmette, III.; Anselm D. Miller. Roa­noke, Va.; T. Frank Murray. Toledo; Daniel J. O'Neil (two contributions), Englewood. N. J.; Edmund A. Polhaus. Detroit; John P. Traynor (additional contribution). New York City; Robert 
M. Worth, Indianapolis. 
From John Huriey: Paul Romweber, of that famous Batesville fur­niture town, told me at the furniture market that Hon. Vincent Harrington got a leave of absence from Congress and is now a major in the U. S. Ferry Command and, the last Paul heard from him, he was in Indianapolis helping train the boys to pull gliders behind those large transport planes. Paul understood that Mrs. Harrington was 
going to take the stump for her husband this fall while he is in the service and your *25 reporter knows Mrs. Harrington and can say that Vince is as good as elected. 

Walter Haecker, I'm sorry to say, was in To­ledo on a vacation while I was out of town. From all reiwrts, he still looks the same and is still with the B. F. Goodrich Co. of Pittsburgh. For your information, Butch, I haven't gained any more pounds than you have, which is 10 pounds over the good old days of 1925—can you stack up against that record? This might be one way way of getting the boys to send in a little news of themselves—having a weight contest of some sort or other. 
. During the summer months I saw Ray Tillman whose factory, Unitcast Corporation, is turning out loads of government contracts; in fact the company is adding a new plant of over 3'/^ mil­lion dollars. Ray is one of the officers of the company, along with his brother, Joe, who was graduated in 1921. Ray is also the proud father of another girl, Sharon Rose, which makes the score three girls and one boy. Ray's oldest daugh­ter is a junior at St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame, Ind. Paul Dooley is no longer with the E!ec­trolux Co., as there are no more Electroluxes to sell, and he is now with Hinckley-Meyers and travels pretty much over the Mid-West seeing that war contracts are getting out. Paul can now boast of two boys, Dick who is a year and a half and none other than John Patrick, about six weeks. Mr. and Mrs. John Patrick Hurley are the god-parents of John Patrick Dooley—it goes without saying that he's a great boy! 
My old roommate, Ray Cunningham, was sworn into the Navy in Minneapolis where he was com­missioned a lieutenant, senior grade. Ray will t'e stationed there permanently (as permanently as you can be in the Navy) recruiting in the Na^'y procurement division of that city. Ray's experi­ence on the debating team and valedictorian of our class came in handy in getting the commis­sion, as one of the main things he has to do is talk and you all know Ray will do as good a job selling the Navy as he did for his own Moffett Studio. Mrs. Cunningham, who is a first lieuten­ant in the Motor Corps Division of the Red Cross. is on duty in Minneapolis and their boy. "Rickie," is going to school In that city. 
If there are any other fellows in the service or doing war work, let's hear from them; in fact, let's make this column bulge with news this year because there certainly ought to he plenty of news around the ixjuntry today. 
By the way, boys, I sent you a letter today and asked that the class of 1925 pledge Notre Dame at least a SIOO.OO War Bond even if it takes four years to complete this pledge because Notre Dame is having its lOOch Birthday this year and she needs our help. Let's put the class of *25 right up there on top where it should be. In case you didn*t receive my letter. it*s because the Alumni Association hasn't your correct address, so, i f you're among the missing, it*s no one's fault but your own and losing your connection with Notre Dame is really losing a lot in life. 
Let's keep the bonds rolling in and keep Major VInce Harrington and the rest of the boys flying. 
John Noppcnbcrser has been appointed head football each at Central High School in Peoria. III., where he has been assistant coach for several years. 
Major Cornelias S. Hafferty is now stationed at the Army Base Hospital, Amarillo, Texas. 
I AO # JuBM A. Bonan, 127 N. Deaihom St, I YZ O CUcaco. m. 
Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 John Q. Adams, Montclair, N. J.: Leo J. Cant­wen. Lake Placid. N. Y.; Dr. B. Daniel Cough­lin. St. Louis: Robert B. Cummins, Mandan. 

N. D.; Thomas A. Farrell. "West Orange, N. J.; 
J. Norbert Gelson, Jr., Summit, N. J.: John T. Griffin. Chicago; Lawrence V. Keefe. New York City: John J. Kelly. Philadelphia: George P. O'Day, River Forest, III.: Tino J. Poggiani, In­dianapolis ; L Irwin PVobst, New Athens, 111.; Rev. Keithen L. Roche, Toluca. 111.: Gilbert F. Schaeffer. Detroit: Forest J. Swartz. Akron: Joseph A. Walsh. South Bend; James F. Whelan, Grantwood, N. J. 
Joe Bach, tackle on the Four Horsemen team, has been named coach of the Fort Knox football team, serving in a civilian capacity. Joe was former head coach at Niagara university. line coach at Sj-racuse and Duquesne. and head coach of the Pittsburgh Steelers, professional football team. 
1927 
Joseph M. Boland. Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 
Edwin A. Berkery. New York City; James "W. 
Coleman, Norwich, N. Y.; John A. Dailey, Bur­
lington, la.; "William J. Degnen, New York City; 
Joseph P. Delia Maria. Chicago; Alfred J. Die-
bold, Jr.. Pittsburgh; Bernard L. Fpstein, Chica­
go; Andrew N. Galone. Pittsburgh; John J. Hal-
pin, Chicago; Richard L, Halpin, Wilmette. 111.; 
William D. Kavanaugh, New York City: Clayton 
C. Leroux, Cleveland Heights, O.; Daniel W. McCluskey, Janesville, Wis.; Edward J. McLaugh­lin, Chicago: James J. O'Connor, Brooklyn ; Ermin 
E. Reichert, Long Prairie, Minn.; Rev. Harry Ryan (additional contribution). Lacona P. O., la.; Dr. Daniel R. Sheeran, Flint, Mich.: John W. Slattery, Chicago; William L. Travis, Hammond, Ind.: Joseph W. "Whelan, Grantwood. N. J. From Joe Boland: 
AVhile this is more than "a brief pause for sta­tion identification" it very nearly came close to being just that, for want of more to write about. We could use a bit of that stuff called news. 
It's pleasant to report that Boris Epstein has finally reported, after having been paged in this department for some time past. He's with the Standard Paint & Wallpaper Co., 3839 W. North Ave., Chicago, and sends his regards to all. 
John Dailey checked in with a "Here, Sir" from Burlington, la., and his practice of law, as did Tom Dann from the Baum BIdg., Morris, 111.: Tom also announced the birth of a son. Arthur Joseph, on July 3 last, and gives word that Clarence Ruddy is still at the law in Aurora. 111. 
Bill Carter, who has been in publicity with his own firm, (demonstrating his ability in his letter to Ye Scriv) left Aug. 20 for Camp Dix, as a buck private, after having assured us of his 100 per cent support in the alumni endowment drive. Maybe he'll run into Steve Ronay, until recently a professor of English here at Notre Dame, now an officer in the Army Air Corps. 
Malcolm Hatfield, now Judge Hatfield of Berrien County. Mich., has outlined the story of how he got that way for his classmates. Reads good, too —so here it is: 
"I was married two months after our class graduated in 1927 and took a job at Niles. For ­two winters and summers I took graduate courses at N.D. and received a Master's in 1929. I con­tinued my work evenings and Saturdays for a Ph.D. but this was interrupted two years later when I was asked to run for probate judge of Berrien County. 
"It was a difficult decision to make but I fig­ured that as long as I had existed long enough on the genteel starvation wages of an educator I had better get into a vocation where I could keep out of the poor-house at 60. So I traded the "hanees of receiving a Fh.D. for the judgeship 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LIEUT. COL. MONTY J. TENNES, JR., '28 —Luke-Field Photo 
Recently appointed as director of training at the Army Air Forces Ad­vanced Flying School, Y.uma, Ariz., was Lieut. Col. Monty J. Tennes,- Jr., '28. After his graduation from Kelly Field as a second lieutenant in 1930, Monty spent three years on active .duty at'Sel­fridge Field, Detroit. He was recalled to active duty as captain. Air Corps Re­serve, and assigned to Luke Field, Phoe­nix, Ariz., in 1941. On Feb. 1, 1942, he was made a major and on March 1 a lieutenant coloneh 
and have never regretted my action, for the 
chance of ser\'ice in this field is enormous. If 
the boys will read Karl Detzer*s article "Bad 
Boys and Good Neighbors" in the May, 1939, issue 
of 'Readers Digest' they will see what I mean." 
(Ed. Note: Judge Hatfield has recently been 
signed to appear on the Redpath circuit, lecturing* 
on his work in the field of juvenile delinquency). 
And Johnny Nyikos, of basketball fame, popped through with regards and best wishes from his Chevrolet Motor Co., job at Syracuse. N. Y., where he is located for General Motors. Home address: 504 Berwick Road. 
Frank Hagenbarth writes from Spokane, Wash., in this fashion: 
".. . I am hale and hearty, living in Spokane, and I am secretary-treasurer of Lomax-Grimmer Warehouses here doing warehousing and trans­portation business. 
". . . . After travelling around for 13 years I am glad to have settled down now and have my own home. "We have a boy and a girl now ages 2^2 and 1 year. 
"I was very pleased recently to find Joe Reedy in town. He is now a first lieutenant in charge of army warehousing at the Spokane Air Depot. He is living at the Culmstock Arms Apt. Hotel, Washington and 8th Sts., Spokane. Joe is still a bachelor, but I have hopes for him. He is doing a good job here. At the rate he is going, it looks like he'll be the head of the army before very long. He is fit, and now has a head of iron-gray hair. 
"I told Jo2 I would write you and let you know where he is. I know he would be delighted to hear from some of his classmates, and so would 
Which, I take it, is invitation enough—saith ye scrivener, who now must turn character to become • "Ye Spieler." 
John Harwoo4, architect in Nashville since 1934, ' has been commissioned first • lieutenant in the Army Air Force intelligence unit at Miami Beach, Fla. 
Ted Berkery is vice-president of the Emigrant Industrial Savings Bank in New York. 
1928 
Locis F. Biidd«y. 44S1 lIUcArtluir Bird., Wuhincton, D. C. 
Alamni Contribotors, 1942-43 

Neil Amiot, Wyandotte. Mich.; Louis F. Buck­ley, Washington, D. C ; Louis J. Carr, Sea Girt, 
N. J.: Lester J. Carrig. Columbus, Nebr.: Ber­nard D. Fletcher, Pittsburgh, Pa.; John C. Fon­tana, Columbus, O.: Frank M. Galardy, New York City: William A. Hurley, Springfield, Mass.; VfiU, liam W. (Turk) Kelly, NeW York City; Herbert 
P. McGabe, New York City; Leo R. Mdntyre. Bethlehem, Pa.; Edward R. Quinn, Notre Dame; Charles J. Shelanskey, Westhampton Beach. N.Y.; Fred J. Solman, Jr., Hammond. Ind.; Walter J. Toussaint, South Charleston. W. Va.; James E. White, South Bend. From Loo BacUey: 
My Labor Day mail consisted of two reminders that I must meet a Sept. 15 deadline—one from Bin Dooley and the other from the Collector of Internal Revenue. I wish I could think of a way of passing the buck successfully in the latter case as I hope I have done in the request for class notes. 
Following the guest columnist plan which has 
worked well for a number of years, I immediately 
sent an S.O.S. to Bill Kearney and Dave Smitk. I 
am asking Bill to send in a report on the Chicago 
gang and Dave to give an account of the archi­
tects. If my plan works. Bill Dooley will give you 
the contributions of our guest writers this month. 
Your Washington correspondent has picked up very little '28 news since his last report. I had a very fine session with Dick Weppner who is here in Washington with the War Production Bopi-d. Bill Janes reports that Chet Rice is aUo in town with the Office of Price Administration. Pkil Lytle called me from Fort Belvoir where he is stationed. I hope to get this gang together soon. Bill Jones also informed me of the death of Joe Brannon's father in Denison, la. Joe is still located in Sac­ramento. Calif., where he is manager of a Sears. Roebuck store. I also heard that Bill Helden is in service now and is located in Texas. It was the first I had heard about Bill since our Freshman Hall days. He had been teaching in the Washing­ton Conservatory of Music here for a number of years. 
Bemie Garter wrote during the summer from 300 West 109th St.. New York, indicating that we should have our 15th reunion in the spring: regard­less. I would like to have suggestions from -some of you on this subject. The future is so indefinite that very little can be said at this early date but let's keep it in mind for further discussion. Ber­nie, by the way, mentioned that Gearve Sckeaer of 1329% Touhy Ave., Chicago, had a second son bom May 20. 
Gknn Hatdi dropped me a note in June after reading the June "Alumnus." Glenn is in Allen­town, Pa., with the Ldiigh Portland Cement Co. Ha mentioned that he was glad to see a report in the column on Hank Msiiman as one of his jobs . is to see that his mills keep the government well supplied with cement on a huge project in Ten­nessee, which is being constructed for the gov­ernment by the Massnuin associates. 
After completing my report for the month, I received a call from Tom Bfahon -who is now in the Navy and is stationed here in Washington in an office job. He lives at 1416 South Highland, Arlington, Va. I am glad to welcome Tom to the ever<4ncreasing number of '28 men in Washington even though he finds it more crowded than Su­perior. M^. Tom reports that Navy Lieutenant Geerve Cswy has finished his course in Rhode Island and is stationed at Elizabeth City, N. C. 
FVom Bin Kearney: Ed Hc^own told me sadly that he had just been discharged—not from jail as he perhaps should have been—^but from the hospital after a five-week session. He started with ptomaine and ended with pneumonia. The expense and in­convenience were great, but the expense means nothing to Ed who has recently established the firm of Hassenancr (Leo of '20), McKeown and Russell. Ed has always done a great deal of legal work for Commercial Credit (of which I might soon need some myself), and he also has the Hc&own Motor Sales. If you have an order from Uncle Sam Ed can sell you a deep freeze auto. He is married and has two children, one just starting school. He told me that Ray Lawler, -who had been with Ed's auto organization, was in a defense plant, Ray being the father of three diildren. Howie Phalin is still going strong sell­ing books for children of which he has none. I met a competitor of Howie's not so long ago, and be told me that the lad had built up a mar­vellous sales organization, and had continued on his fine way to millions (but no one to leave it to). 
Jim Allan, robust and rosy, is continuing to do a fine job with the Lumberman's Mutual Casu­alty law department as claim supervisor. Jim is married and has one child. I used to see him at churt^, but I guess he moved out of the parish. Ed McKcown also told me that Phil Quinn had left the insurance business to go with the Board of Education of Chicago as an engineer in the school system. He also has a trucking business on the side, and is thus doing a fine job of support­ing a wife and a daughter. 
Jerry DeCfercii Is a South Bend boy who is doing very well here. He is the bakery sales man­ager of Standard Brands. He has an even greater claim to fame, however, the same being twins. Jerry always did things in the grand manner. Bin Leaky has been in Chicago now for some time. We saw him and his wife and child out at Dick Fkelan's some time ago. Dick tells me that Bill's second child was just born a few weeks ago, and now legally has the fine name of llmothy. Bill almost at the same time received a very good promotion from his company. Pet Milk. 
Dick also told me that he heard from John Icoe. John, the Sandusky dynamo, is now in Gary, Ind., as assistant purchasing agent for Tubular Prodnet^ a U. S. Steel defense work subsidiary. He was married not so long ago (the story of the fan of his wedding and honeymon as told by Phelan would make Bob Hope seem awfully dull) and now has a baby girl to show his ability to carry on according to what he learned in Father Btiget'm class. He still is one of the funniest people I ever knew. He sees, as do we all. Judge Jahn Wallace, judge of the City Court of nearby Calumet City. IlL I think John was a year ahead of OS and he is every bit as good a judge as he was an aid. John has been sitting in the Circuit Court of Cook County for quite a while at the invitation of the judges of the court. He has three diildren. so his turn in the Juvenile Court gave him MHne pointers on what not to do. 
Ed BrcMun, the svrammer of our class, is now with the Cook County Highway department as­signed to a bis and tough job, the prompt and eflioent eolleetion of personal propej-ty taxes. It 
The Notre Dame Al urn n u s 
really is an important task, getting his new de­partment organized, but Eddie is doing it. I aee him almost every day, and he has the complete confidence of the public officials. Ed is as hand­some as ever bat so far he has managed to elude all females. Ed thinks that maybe his only claim to fame, the only bachelor in our class, bnt I assured him we could dig up some more. 
Dick Phelan and I saw Ray Ifalligan the other day in his uniform. He is a lieutenant in the Armed Guard division of the Navy, had com­pleted his training at Boston, and was then about to leave for a task and a place concern­ing which he could not tell anyone. He was formerly with the Chicago lltle and TVnst Com­pany as an attorney, but I guess Ray thought he would rather fight with guns than writs. Bay McGEory, a year ahead of us I guess, is also a Navy man, lieutenant senior grade. %40id so is George Coary, both having the same rank. 
Jade (Red) Cavanangh is trying in every way possible to get into the &cr?p and I just beard a rumor that he was all set. Jack is about as busy as anybody in town, running from here to South Bend to New York to Washington, repre­senting clients and several associations. He was married last summer and has a beautiful home all planned. He has the land on the lake but somehow it does not qualify as a defense plant so he will have to wait until he can win the war. Red told me that he sees Bill Cronin In Washing­ton quite often, busy with his boss. the.Fbst­master General. By the way. Bill, the General was in Chicago a year ago for Universal Notre Dame Night and he really is a grand fellow, as you no doubt know. 
Spike McAdams, who recently completed a big campaign throughout the state of Illinois which drew down an article in "Life," is also trying to get into the Army, and I believe he will soon have the word. He is busy practicing law, ref­ereeing prize fights, raising a fine family and telling about every game N. D. played for the last two decades, I guess we all know that Monty Tennes is a lieutenant-colonel in the aviation di­vision of the Army. We saw him several years ago over Chicago in some Army show in a dog fight, and I did not see how he eould stand it. Spike told me that he saw Cecil Alexander, now he thinks the proud father of two children and an increasing insurance business. 
Bill Corbett. a year ahead of us, left his bond business at the beginning or even before the war and is a lieutenant, senior grade, in the Navy. He has a fine family of children who keep him, his wife, his father (one of the trustees of N. D.) his mother and the neighbors all busy. Ed Bjran. '27. lives a few blocks from me in a big house with a big family, and is still with Jim Breman in the insurance business. Joe O'DonncIl, '27, after his father's death, took over the running of their specialty shop on the Gold Coast. He passed my little car the other day in what looked like an aeroplane. 
Joe Sullivan (little Joe. the ball player) is practicing law here and doing very well. We usually have two cases a year and in that way I keep up with him: Joe had his limit of sick­ness, but maybe now he will be able to have some good luck. Dick Moody, who started with xa bnt had to drop back a year on account of sickness. is now the lad running the Case Moody Pie Com­pany, one of the biggest in the city. He was in the other day. All during the summer he com­muted from their summer place at I<ake Delavan, Wis. 
My old roommate. Bert Kotxenedd (Horph) has shortened his name and also his hair. Be is bald, but still is the great story teller. His wife and mine and the two of us went on a trip through New England and the Maritime Prov­inces a year ago. and I am still laughing. In April the same four of us went down to New Orleans and back through the Smokies, and in July we went up to Canada for some real fishing. Bert is still title examiner for the County Re­corder of Deeds. 
I bought a house in Winnetka a few days ago, and in cloang the deal had a diance to see how 
N. D. men work together. Joe Shelley, '25, is the head of the escrow department of the Chicago Title and Trust and Joe gave me valiant service. "Hit lives in Winnetka. We hope to move in a few days and will have Joe and also Didc Phelan as neighbors. Dick bought a house a month ago. and it now is all fixed up and looks about ready for a party. He is trust counsel for the lltle and Trust, and has two fullbacks. My own two are also slated for the backfield, and I am still one of the assistants in the state's attorneys of­fice, assigned to trying tax'cases only. Phelan also heard from Connie Ochoa in Mexico. He expects to be up for the football season. 
From Dave Smith: Ihe '28 classmate that I hear from most regular­ly (I hope his conscience bothers him when he reads this) is John Sciter. John has been teaching for several years now in Warrensburg, Mo., and appears to be well satisfied with conditions there. He must be irreplaceable because w^hen he tried to enter the armed service, he was requested to continue at his present position. Ed Sciter, John's brother, continues to govern the social workers and social life of Kansas City. 
Ed Bethke was. when last heard from, working for the Chicago Brick Co. I haven't seen him for about a year. A nice long, newsy letter from Arnold Ihoma accompanied his card last Christ­mas. After several years sojourn in Miami, he has returned to his home town of Piqua. O. I had the pleasure of a most enjoyable visit with him in Miami a couple of years ago. ITie last day I was there, I found that Frank Andrews was also grac­ing the town with his presence:'I regretted that 
•Idid not get the opportunity to see him. 
Beh Knox and I helped pull the football team through to a victory over Northwestern last fall. 
Maarice Ingram surprised me by showing up in Chicago about a year ago. He accompanied his mother, who came here to receive medical atten­tion. Maury has his own office in Bowling Green. Ky., and has been quite successful. 
For myself there is little to mention. Our architectural firm of McCarthy. Smith and Eppig had been going very well for a number of years doing parochial schools, churches and what have you. Hie present conditions completely stopped our type of work. In July. I took a leave of absence from the firm and became a superintendent on an ordnance construction project in East Chicago. The architectural office is on the site and con­tains several N.D. men: Red Graham, '17, Vince Facan, *20. Art Eppig, *33. and Jerry Rank, '35. Ihere Is no doubt about the best represented col­lege in that office. 
fVom Boh Knox to Dave Smith; Recently I had a long talk with Roy Worden in South Bend where he has established a fine practice. At that time his firm. Worden and Schwartz, was busy on government housing pro­jects, one of which was published in the "Archi­tectural Record." 
While attending the American Institute of Architects convention in Detroit in June, I talked to Ton Cooke, '24, who for the past several years has been with the Del Prado Marble Co. of Chi­cago, when not gadding around in Europe. Aastin 
K. HaB of Memphis was also a delegate from the Memphis Chapter where he has done pretty well in his practice there. I looked in vain for Pete BrynclbMit, '29, as I hear that he is an inii>ortant architect in Bay C^ty, Midi. Our dean. F. W. Kcnridc, was in attendance at the convention. 
Jack S«nnkaUer wrote from Cleveland last month with much {rood news about himself. He is now doinsT illustration work in Cleveland for armament plants to use in the instruction classes of the armed forces. My old roommate. Sam D«ba. is the mystery man. though the grapevine from Libertyville informs me that he has been working throu^oot northern Illinois in the service of Uncle Sam. By this writing he may be one of our defenders. 
I have made contact with Jelui Icoe, now of Gary, and expect to meet him at Notre Bame at the first football same, if not before. My brothers are in the home town of Crystal Lake; III.. Vemvn, *31. practicing law and Handd, ex. '28, in the oil business. My Freshman Hall roommate. Howie Phalin, has visited us and is still with the 
W. F. Qnarrie Co. of World Book fame. Don Fit^fferald, '27, is a yeoman in naval training at Purdue University. 
We moved here to Benton Harbor from Spring­field, ni., in May, 1941, and I joined Wallace A. FVeston in practice here. Since then we have been comfortably busy in general practice, though of late mostly on industrial design. We have a daugh­tcr. Barbara Ann. two and one-half years old. and a new son. Michael John, bom August 28. 
From Paal Brnst to Dave Smith: Since 1928 many things have happened to me and yet I have a nostalgia for Notre Dame. Each visit back to school and each copy of the "Alum­nus" have been eagerly anticipated. 
After graduation I spent a year at Columbia University in New York CHty. ITien I came home and worked in my father's architectural office in Milwaukee. Several years later a trip to Euroj>ean centers was a highlight. In 1933 I was in the federal architect ofiice in Washington, D. C. While there I frequently saw Loshbaagh who was in another group of that staff. John O'Neill was working in Washington with another agency at the time and I saw him on several occasions and I met Jack Canizaro there too. 
I moved to Milwaukee and became an architec­tural inspector for the Federal Housing Admin­istration, which position I enjoyed for several years. During this period, in 1936, I married and moved to a suburban location.' 
Later my father, brother John, *32, and myself united in an active architectural group and were fortunate in doing a sizeable quantity of architec­tural work. Our office was quite busy, even up to the present time. 
Durinff this period many of the boys stopped in this town and visited. Arnold Thoma and I took a long eastern tour together. Pat Varraveto came up while doine estimating work. Now Ed Bethke has moved here. We hc«>e to have a good reunion soon. 
My father, beinir a regional director of the American Institute of Architects, has met some of the boys and brought back work from Maary ^ Ingram when they attended a Louisville conven­tion meeting. 
Eail Warthington met Dad in Bloomington, 111., last year. I believe he brought word that Boh Kaaz was alive and smiling. 
Early this spring I spent a month assisting the Farm Security Administration and the boys showed roe drawings made by one of thur Illinois men. It was the work of our beloved Sam Daha. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
The Christmas cards of Kay Warfca and A n Thoma usually have a note attached savins tiia latest news of interest. Al Srh—rr was a good correspondent. . . . Since graduation I haven't seen or heard about Jack Saaahalter nor Balph Clemmons. 
At the present time I am located at the'^ofllee of the FHA takin? care of priorities work in that oflBce. It's a job where yoa work harder and longer than you ever did—but we—Mary, Barbara and Paul, seem to be thriving aa wdl as we daza hope under the wartime circumstances. 
Leo Fettig in a letter to Dave Smith rQiorts that following graduation he wwked in Chicago for three years with Tallmadege ft Watsoa. HoUabird ft Root and H. L. Stevens, all ardutceta. During the depression he, his Dad and atvcn brothers formed the Fetti? Canning Cbrpw in Elwood. Ind., and Leo served as genera! manager and chemist. 
Leo married a home town girl, Lenore Me-Kenzie. a graduate of Mt. St. Joseph in Cincin­nati, at the Log Chapel on Jan. 2€, 1932. They now report four children: Dennis Benedict, 9; Dorothy Ellen. 8; Paul Francis. 5; and Mark Leo, 2. 
Leo left the canning business in January, '41, to accept a position with the Charles H. Shook. Inc., construction company as designer and esti­mator and is still in the same position, in Day­ton. O. He sees Arnold Ihoau who is at Wright Field in Dayton. 
Loaia F. Buckley, of whom you have perhaps heard, had published an article entitled '"Ibe Effect of the War Upon Labor in the United States" in the July issue of "Sodal Science" magazine. 
John McMahon, Pittsburgh, visited the campus on Au?. 21. John, who is president of the West-em Pennsylvania N.D. club, was in Chicago on business and stopped at the campus on the return trip. 
Architect Al Schnurr assisted, the local chairman in the arrangements for the annual arehitecta* meeting at C^dar Point. O., recently, according to an article in the "Ohio Architect." 
Al. who saved as supervisor of "white collar" projects for the WPA durins the early '30s, qual­ified for registration as an architect in Ohio by written examination in 1936. 
After sennng as special sales engineer with the Hinde and Dauch Paper Company in 1938. Al is at present situated with the Plum BrotA Federal Project. 
I OOO ^•^^ P- McNamaza. Attaraty Gta-I TZ T enTa Otic*. lailaBiislh, lad. 
Alarani Cantrihataia, 1MZ-4S 

Francis D. Abeam. Hartford. Ccmn.; Henry L. Bums. Kenmore. N. Y.; James M. Curry. Great Neck. N. T.; John W. Dorgan. Chicago; John F. Harrison (Army), Stamford. Conn.; Lieut. Thoos­as V. Hart, Chicago; Hilmar E. Heoer, Racine. Wis.: Francis Jones. South Bend; Joseph H. Mulhall, Owosso. Mich.; Jerome E. Oodlette. Jersey City. N. J.; Oliver F. Schell. New York City; John A. Smith, Chicago; Jotm B. Sullivan, Springfield. Mass.; Robert M. Trotter, SauH Ste. Marie. Mich.; Philip A. Walsh. Butler. Pa.; Wil­liam J. Weber. Mokena, HI. 
Bill Danlevy is now serving with tha Army. according to a scout. And the secretary of the class was about to become Capt. Jwiph P. Me> Namara of the office of the Judge Advocate Gen­era! in Washington. D. C . when ha wrote to tha Alumni Office on Sept. 14. WhiA makes it i 
31 

certain that veil hear froei liia evea laaa fi«­qnently than hafeCofort. 
Pale SaaMrvah^ fonaer sopciiatcadiBt of tta JoBM and MrTanghtin Stari Gospdratioa' ylaat at MnKT. Fa„ has been made saaaral mummiKt of tha Olmora Wire Bopa DMsloa of tta cor­poimtioB. 
ITJU»I«* W. W, Wiillnln. IK ft 
Alnn i CMtribataf^ 1*4»4S 

Jaiae* A. AOea, CUeago: Jamea K. Banjr. Mbr­walk. Caaa.: Wdiael J. Bidtkob CBftoi. N. J.: Riduud A. Blooa, Onoda. N. T.: Aanrt- L. Boadi. Indaoapolia: 'WilBam B. Btoonaa. Jr, Oak Fufc. in. : JahB B.-ConliB. Aim Aikor. lOch.: Tn^sUk T. DcLanr. Sjxaenae. N. T.: Juaa F. DriaeaU, Jr.. CUcaso; John J. Eldir. CUea«o: Edward G. Fcnadl. Grand Bapida. IDA.: Wamn 
S. Focd. Bnaiz. N. T.: Arthnr J. GaDa^cr. B H did. O.: Louis Hasler. Notre Danw: Josc ^ IL KeOeajian. Ditroit: George G. Kcrver, Lalmraod. O.: Ftands N. Lilllg, West St>ringfidd. Kass.: Bidiard J. Mooroe, Chicago: fVed S. Parent. Sooth Bend: C. Frederick Pique. West Loa An­geles: Edward J. Bedraond. ICIwankee: Donald 
A. Sdwttig. Ebensborg, Pa.: Walter J. Sdnland. Bochcstcr. M. T.; Frank J. Sowa. Cranfor4 M. J.: Fred ^mger . Toledo: Willian N. Steitz, Fltts­borgfa: Dmiald DL Sullivan. N<»thanptoa. Mass., James W. Sullivan. Boral Oak. Midi.: nand s X. Walker. Arlington. Va.: George F. Winkler. Jr.. Far Rockawar, N. T. 
Ted Twaacr recently coopleted his naval in­doctrination program at Annapolis and was sent to Florida to work in the athletic prasraiL Ti a Mritand recently passed an examinatioB hdd br the state board of registration for ardiitaela in Indiana. Ed Sweeney is now at the ordnance training center at Aberdeen. Hd, Proving Groonda. 
•18 K. Calfa AmJ 

1931£^' bi . 
Alamni Caatritatm^ IMX-tt 

Ridiard J. Barbv. Bye. N. T.: JenaK J. Crowley, Jr.. Sooth Bend: Bichard J. Derricks. Paterson. N. J.: James T. Doyle. Chicago; John 
T. Doyle. Passaic. N. J.: Frank T. Fbnn. Jr.. Notre Dame; Henry J. GajowsU. Chicago; GOhat 
D. Gandie. Kalamaaoo. IDch.; Seymoor B. Gna^ Chicago; Fkands J. Henneberger. Princeton. lad.; Myron C. Herschfidd. Goshen. Ind.: Frauds J. Holland. Chicago: Edward J. Hodniiki Sooth Bod: Thonas F. Monahan. Jr., Areola. BL: Gilbot V. Perry. Wyoming. Pa.: Warner ^A. Beising.' PoaayvQle^ Ind.; Ftands E. Seward. Elyria. O.: Hdhart P. Shean.'Jr.. Wonartar. Kaaa.; Dean B. Sutton. Dearborn. WA.: Bohart 
J. Whakn. Chicago; John H. Znber. Sitfnaw, Mich. 
Fkt>m Jekn Bergan: 
The anaed forces are continuing to take anny memhera of the dass. Among thoae called meant-' ly me licnt. Jeha Orasckawrid. diapUn. U. S. Army; Um t Jas BagiMab U. S. Army Air Caif^ Madical. Wri ^ IMd . Dayton. O.; Cap*. Waaad, Usat. Fiaada Gaaaaab Usat. Jah BSB. Utat. mrntm Gadd; and Llaat. Tni Eri­mam, aU of tha Army Meffical coipa. FvC Ifarly BfOL Cat*. Jeha Hidny. Pvt. Fiaads tm»r. Fvt. Jeha Pdls. Pvt. Bil ArtaHa. Pvt^ BB HaMas; Pvt. Am Maiphy. Sgt. TMa Timl^ Pvt. 
•aratr lltClsa,. Baaiga Lany.MiEit. EaaifB Jae Blaaty and Eaaiga Natai Martar. 
Pnia. Ed CaamH and Akn PetnaikaM of the University CoDese of Science have takaa leaves to asdst in govanmcat work at MimaLhamlH lastitBta of TMoology. Lea Maigar is a eaaaak­ins «ailaaii for the eonstmcUoa of a large mac­nmtat phat in Hoostoa. Tezast irtile Pad Ca * lag and Paal Eailght are coosatting laglami • ^ 
for the Nnvy in San Francisco. Bab Masscy spends much time in Washington as representa­tive of Remington Arms. 
A • son, David George, recently arrived in the home of the Joseph Deebs of Grand Rapids. Joe is still the dynamic seven-day-a-week U. S. dis­trict attorney of western Michigan. Mart Downey is on the business staff of the Chicago "Sun." Dick Breen has been recently transferred from Chicago to New York in his job with the depart­ment of immigration of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mart Dowling, who has been very ill, is somewhat improved but stiU cannot be on the job. He would greatly appreciate a note from the gang, so let's drop him a line. His address is 63 Inglewood Drive, Rochester. N. Y, 
There has been no news of George Vlk who was declared missing after the fall of Wake Island. George was acting as recreational director for the construction company building a defence plant there when the island was attacked and thus far has not been heard from. Remember George in your prayei-s. 
Frank Leahy, beginning his second season as coach, reiterates his statement of last year that the doors of the athletic office are always open to any member of the class on the campus. We certainly wish Frank and his staff lots of suc­cess on the most difficult schedule in the history of the Universitj- football teams. Frank is in fine shape physically after a three weeks' illness late this summer. 
Lt. Ed Kosk}-, USNR, is on the athletic staff of North Carolina Pre-Flight school under the direction of Lt. Comm. Jim Crowley. Bill Kcrri­ffan is specialist, second class, at Great Lakes. Capt. Clarence Donovan has been transferred to Randolph Field, Texas. Frank Noll is a candidate for city clerk of Indianapolis. Frank Kopinski joined the Army and resigned as justice of peace of St., Joseph count>'. South Bend. Ed Hosinski. the South Bend furniture man. is also preparing to leave for the Armj* soon. Frank Butorac, spe­cialist, second class, has been transferred from the V-7 indoctrination course at the University and is preparing for sea duty at Norfolk Na\-y base. His wife is residing in St. Paul, Minn. 
About the busiest Ia\v>*er in Chicago of late has heen Assistant U. S. District Attorney Frank McGreal who represented the government in' the espionage cases in that district. Joe "Pop" Thorn­ton is now in the Navy at Portsmouth. N. H. 
Bill Sullivan, the Brooklyn Dodger catcher, has become verj* well acclimated to Flatbush and may 

, move his family from his Sarasota. Fla., home for the duration. Bob PicEott, '32, is in the Gen­eral Motors plant at Seattle, Wash. His brother-in­law. Roy Bailie, the former Boston tire man, will soon be in the Navj* at Boston. Dan Halpin, in the industrial division of Radio Corporation of America, spends much of the time visiting de­fense plants all over the country. He was a visitor at football practice early last month. 
Joe Boyland enjoyed a promotion with the New Amsterdam Casualty company. Joe resides in Grand Rapids and travels over central and south­ern Michigan. Bemie Leahy, recently of Camp Grant, forsook his athletic officer's duties to at­tend Officers Training school at Fort Sheridan, 
111. Many of the class will be interested to learn that Private Dan O'Grady, the former philosophy prof., has made officers training also. 
Our Washington, D. C., branch now includes: LieoL Jack Saonders, USNR: Bill Jones, lands division of the Department of Justice: Jchn Man­ley, ODT; Phil Konop, Federal Land Bank; Bill KarU; Nordy Hoffmann, CIO; Ensign Norm Hart­zer, USNR; Gene Coyle. Internal Revenue Depart­ment; Charlie BCanix, Department of Civilian De­fense, and Leo Cook, Department of Justice. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
LIEUT. LEO J. CRONAN, '34 
Lieut. Leo J. Cronan, of the phy. ed, class of '34, was leader of the platoon winning first place in the second bat­talion at the Navy Pre-Flight School at Chapel Hill, N. C. Leo was physical di­rector at Brooks School, North Andover, Mass., before he entered the Navy. At the Pre-Flight School he is continuing his outstanding work in training ath­letes. 
Congratulations to the Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C., campus writer and faculty publication ad­viser, on the 1942 "Dome" which was one of the finest editions we have ever seen. Harold Bennett is one of the chief accountants of the Mishawaka Rubber company, a vital defense plant. Paul Feh­liff was recently named general manager of the Fehlig Lumber company in St. Louis. Ray Manix has recently succeeded his father as president of the Manix company, Greenville, O. 
We are trying to bring our.service men's list up to date, so please advise us of any member of the class in ser\'ice and his address. The class has nearly 100 men in the armed forces. 
Do your best to provide something for the Uni­versity centennial drive this month so that '31 can reach its quota, and don't forget to drop a line to the see's oiBce for the next issue. 
Hnrold O'Connor, former zone deputy in the ofliee of the internal revenue collector at Rock­ford, 111., has been appointed an internal revenue agent. He is now attending a special training school in Brooklyn after which he will be as­signed to one of the bureau's offices. 
I 0? 0 '^^"'^ ^- ^llin^ ^^^ Broad Blvd., Day­
1 / ^Z ton. O. 
Alumni Contributors, 19-12-13 
Paul B. Belden, Jr., Canton, O.; Francis A. Brichacek. Elmwood Park, III.: Joseph H. Carey, Flushing, N. Y.: James H. Chadwick, Amityville, 
X. Y.; Stanley J. Czapalski, Chicago; Robert L. Davis, Gary. Ind.; Leonard A. Donoghue, Oxford, O.: John E. DriscoU. Jersey City. N. J.; William F, Freidhoff. Johnstown, Pa.; Joseph F. Goncierz, Chicago; Ernest C. Hechinger, Chicago; Edward 
F. Kelley, Jr.. Wilmette, 111.; Florence J. Mc­Carthy. Jr., Brooklyn; Francis H. Miller, Jr., Racine. Wis.; D. Frank Murnane. Jr., Prospect, Conn.; James P. O'Connor, Springfield. Mass.; 
Lieut. John B. O'Keefe, Washington. D. C.; Ray­mond L. Pfeiffer. Louisville; Clifford E. ProdehU Philadelphia: Patrick J. Quirk, Courtland. N. Y.: Cornelius J. Ruffing, (two contributions). Nor­walk, C ; Robert C. (Pete) Streb, Canton. O.: Joseph A. Toussainl, Chicago; James M. Trotter, Jackson. Mich.; P\t. Charles F. Weiss, Jr.. South Bend; Vincent M. Whelan, Grantwood. N. J.; Jerome J. Wilson. Pittsburgh. 
From Jim Collins: I have been working around the Canton. O.. area for some weeks and see Pete Streb regularly. He is still the deputy county treasurer there, and was busy picking the last of his peaches off both trees the last time I saw him. Henry Paradis, ex. *32, is practicing law in Canton and told me he recently visited Thad Xelowski in Chicago. 
Bill Waltz is with the Ohio Merchants' Bank in Massillon, and is spending all his free time trying to raise some grass around his new house which was completed in July. He is married and has two children. 
I spent an extremely enjoyable evening with Gabe Moran in Youngstown recently. He is the purchasing agent for the Automatic Sjirinkler Corp. He told me that John Kramer is still with Standard Oil in Battle Creek. He also said that Bob Davis is a frequent visitor to Youngstown adjusting claims for an insurance company. Also saw Ed DeBortola there: he has a construction company and doing very well with it. 
I had a long letter from Baden Powell recently in which he stated that he was looking forward to being commissioned &oon in the Navy after siiending the past eight months in the recruiting S2r\'ice. He said he had seen more dry land, espe­cially in Texas, since he joined up than any Navy man ever should. He is looking forward also to spending a training period on the campus when his commission comes through. 
A card from Lonic Buckley, secretary of the '28 class, states that he recently spent an evening with Ed O'Malley who is in the Adjutant General Officer Candidate School. Ed mentioned that Tom Graves is also in the same school. Thanks, Louie, I'll tip you off to some news of your class when I get it. . 
1933 
Tighe Woods, 7944 Ellis Ave., Chicago, [IL Alumni Contributors, 19-f2-43 
I-awrence H. Baldinger, Notre Dame: Roger P. Brennan. Cleveland; Walter W. Buckley. Water­bury, Conn.; Thomas A. Cannon, Muncie. Ind.: Richard C. Carton. South Orange. N. J.; Leo K. Cook. New Orleans; Thomas E, Coughlin, Chica­go ; Bernard L. Cousino, Erie, Mich.: Patrick J. Crowley. Chicago: Ronald N. Dames, Wetstor Groves, Mo.: Philip A. Darmody. Chicago: Neill 
W. Ebert, Norwalk, O.; Edward J. Eckert. Lou­donviUe, O.: Philip J. Faherty, Jr.. Lambertville, 
N. J.; John D. Fitzpatrick. South Bend; Carlos 
H. Frank. Snyder. N. Y.; James J. Gerend. She­boygan, Wis.; Williard J. Higgins. New York City; John A. Hoyt. Jr.. Tuckahoe, N. Y.; Frank 
J. Jenny. Forest Hills. N. Y.;.Edward B. Killeen. Cleveland; Charles M. Loughrey, Glen Rock. N. J.: Francis J. Madden, Jersey City. N. J.; William 
J. Martersteck. Jackson. Mich.: Francis S. Mc­Gee, Bronx, N. Y.; James B. McLaughlin, Bronx, 
N. Y,; J. P. O'Beirne, Del Monte, Calif.: Lieut. Adolphe J. Pons. Jr.. Bel Air, Md; Henry J. Prendergast, East Orange, N. J.: Eugene G. Rau. Cranford. N. J.; Paul A. Rigali, Glenview. III.: Louis O- Staelens, Saginaw, Mich.: David E. Troy, East Chicago, Ind.; Lawrence J. Stitt, Cleveland. 
Jack Kinney*, the former track manager, is now compensation lawyer for the Travelers Insurance company in Philadelphia. He was graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and in 1941, was married. He expects to enter the Navy shortly. 

Chuck Jaskwhtch is now a lieutenant in the Navy and serving as assistant football coach at the Navy Pre-Flight School at Athens. Ga. 
I AO ^ Robert U. CahilU Athletic Asiociatlon. 
I #0 ^ Notra Dune. Ind. 
AInmni Contribators, 1942-43 
Eli Abraham, Notre Dame: Leo J. Brugser, 

Erie, Pa.; John E. Clauder (additional contribu­
tion), Milwaukee; John A. Devine (Army). Nor­
walk. Conn.; William E. Doyle (Army), Chicago; 
Walter J. Dupray, Port Huron, Mich.; William F. 
Escher, Detroit; Francis B. Gartland, Brooklyn; 
Joseph R. Glennon, Jr., Pleasantville, N. Y.: 
Charles N. Heckelmann, Glendale, N. Y-; Francis 
W. Honerkamp, New York City; Robert W. Hughes, Lansing. Mich.; Edward W. Krause, Notre Dame; Edward M. Moran. Chicago; Ray­mond F. Piontek. New Haven. Conn.; Julian J. Podraza, Chicago; John J. Roche, West New Brighton, N. Y.; Ralph E. Rogers. Arequipa, Peru. South America; Gene E. Strong, Clayton, Mo.; Thomas J. Umphrey. Indianapolis; George E. Wenz. Jersey City, N. J. 
Hany May, ex. '34, is in the infantry at Camp Shelby, Miss. Max Roden is stationed at the ord­nance training center, Aberdeen. Md.. Proving Grounds. 
Ray Brancheau went to the Norman, Okla.. naval school following graduation from the in­doctrination program at Annapolis. Larrj- O'Neill, who also was recently graduated from the An­napolis program, is at Lakehurst, N. J. 
Walter Dupray has enlisted in the Navy as a lieutenant and is stationed at the Northeastern Naval Training Station, Newport, R. I. 
IAO P Pi^^Uy^ ^- Hochreiter, 340 Rosedale 
I 7^ 3 Ave.. St. Loois, Mo. 
Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 

James W. Bookwalter, South Bend: Joseph W. Conlon, Albany. N. Y.; Leo J. Cummings, Seattle; Jerome J. Gushing, Chicago; Glenn T. Dubs, Can­ton. O.: Ir\'ing Garnitz. South Bend: Raymond B. Keating, Houston; John J. Kunz. Oconomowoc, Wis.: Corp. Lavin J. McNicholas, Memphis; Lieut. William B. Moss, Philadelphia; John H. Neeson, Jr.. Philadelphia: Edward L. O'Hara. Rochester, N. Y.; Carl B. Ratterman. Imala, Calif.; John A. Slattery. Detroit; Cyril A. Wig­gins, New York City; Matthew J. Winkel, Balti­more. 
From Hoch: Well, gang, here comes the first of the 1942­43 series and we start off with the smallest col­umn on record for an opener. One communication arrived during the summer months and that from Paul Guarniert, whose card just made the dead­line. Paul is now a corporal and here is his con­tribution : 
"Been transferred a little closer to the Alma Mater to a brand new camp. Like it here im­mensely and hope to get to a game. Met Tomp­kins at Knox; he was in '34 and sang in the Glee Club. He's looking fine and getting along in great shape. He's in the Armored Force at Fort Knox, Ky. Spent Saturday evening with Ed Bu-chart (my former roommate) '35 — he's still at home (Louisville. Ky.) but doesn't know for how long. He and I hope to get up to a game. What game is the gang making? Good luck!" 
Paul's address is 35th Evacuation Hospital, Camp Atterbury, Ind. How about dropping him a line and letting him know when you are going to be at N.D.? A small reunion of the '35ers wouldn't be bad. 
For the national headline of the month goes the hand-painted window pane to Thomas Grattan Proctor. As you no doubt all obser\*ed. Tom made 
LIEUT. JOHN F. DAVIS, '38 

The Distinguished Flying Cross for skillful handling of his patrol bomber during a Japanese attack on Jan. 17 was awarded to Lieut. John F. Davis, '38, according to an announceaient in June. Details of John's exploits were in the June "Alumnus." 
Among the Notre Dame men in the local V-7 Naval Training School between July 6 and Aug. 6 were the foUowing, left to right: Robert E. Sweeny, '40, John F. Clifford, '38, Chicago, Thomas £. Rooney, *38, and Hiram G. McCarthy, '38. Also in the class but absent when this picture was taken were Leonard P. Habig, ex. '38, Thomas Hardart, '38, and Robert C. Dyke, '41. 
"Time" (issue that appeared on the newsstands 9/10/12) in a letter to the Editor. 
During the last year we considered a reporting plan very seriously. Through this idea we may be able to revitalize our column and draw out our sleeping brethren. 1928 and 1930 have used it to advantage and now 1935 is going to initiate it. Each issue a new group of 10 men are going to have the assignment to send along all the news they can muster. Please send it to your scribe and he vill get it in shape for the editor. Fol­-.lowinff are the 10 'who will be xesponaible for the December issue, which vill be the next to appear 
in an altered puhUeation schedule: Pliil AnAciter,* 
Georte Barber, Jmkm Clarlc, Fraidc Descbawps; 
Jeny Fvley, Harry Gafney, Jeks Hig^u* Ei 
Kibaarray, Art KraiufeUer, Jack MeDaueO. 
The deadline is Nov. 15. Copy should be in oar hands hy Kov. 13 so that we can type it np and have it at NJ). hy Nov. 15. 
TMB GraTeSa now a sergeant in the Army, is 

in the Adjutant General's Department Officer 
Training School at Fort Washington, Hd. 
Ed 0*Hara has been assigned to a x>ositlon in 

the Rodiester, N. Y., public sdiools after teaching 
for four years In the Hammondsport, N. Y., pub­
lic sdiools. 
First Lieat. AMp h Pons arrived in Great Britain in a recent convoy. 
 F. Mansfield, 4C Locast S U 

1936 
JoMPh Providence, R. I. Alunni Conlrikatora, 1M2-43 Thomas E. Adamson, River Forest, HI.; William H. Belden, Canton. O.: William J. Darey, Sontli Bend; Carmine L. Del Gaizo, Waterbory, Conn.; Joseph IJ. Fitzmaurice. Greenbelt. Md.; Thomas E. Griffin. Monroe. Mich.; William !«. Jacobs. Jr.. Aurora. Ind.; James H. Kirby. Detroit; John A. lioritsch. Schenectady, N. Y.; John A. Masterson, Brtxiklyn : Walter J. Matns. Paterson, N. J.; Rob­ert B. Moynahan. Indianapolis; Francis F. O'Brien, Elmira. N. Y.: James J. Quinn. East Chester. N. Y.: Julias V. Rocco. linden, N. J.; Joseph D. Sullivan. Norwichton. Conn.; Arthur L. Vameau. Detroit; John W. Walker (Army). Keokuk, la.; William A. Walsh. Jr.. Yonkers, N. Y.: George M. WoU. Port Clinton. O. 
Dr. Jim Qninn is a first lieutenant in the Army Air Corps and is commanding officer of the medical attachment for the Oklahoma City Air Depot. 
Cliff Ncilson has been promoted to company clerk of his outfit at Camp Shelby. Miss. Jefenny Monui is now an ensign'in the Navy and. at last reports, was still stationed in New York. 
I 70 / Grooe Pobte. Hick.' AhmnI Contribatari, 1942-13 Raymond M. Burch. Washington. D. C.; Ralph 
M. Cardinal. Jr., Malone. N. Y.; Eugene I. Cattie. Philadelphia; Arthur D. Cronin, Jr.. Detroit: Harold J. Drueckcr (additional contribution). Ko­komo, Ind.; James H. Dunn. Rockford. 111.; James 
G. Hack, Chicago; Thomas J. Hughes. New York City; Edward P. Huisking. Huntington, N. Y.; Benjamin D. Johnston. Fort Smith. Ark.; William 
J. Lynch. Chicago; Joseph K. Mcintosh. Fenns Grove, N. J.; Capt. Clay McN. Murray. San Di­ego; Joseph P. Quinn, Jr., Toledo; Joseph J. Welch. Weedsport. N. Y. 
John Foi, ex. '3T. has been promoted from first lieutenant to captain in the 65th observation group of the Army Air Corps. 
Pvt. Henry J. McConnell, ex. 'ST. is listed among the "missing in action" since the fall of the Phil­ippines, according to a recent note from Provi­dence, R. I., his home. 
I A^ g Harold A. Williams, SOS East Lake 
I 7^ 0 Ave.. Baltimore. Md. 
Afaimni Contribntors. 1942-13 , Charles M. Brown. Indianapolis; Francis P . Cosgrove. Hillside. N. J.; Joseph D. Dineen, Her­kimer, N. Y.; Carl W. Doozen. Saginaw. Mich.; Francis J. Drolla. New Orleans; Thomas M. Fitz­gerald, Indianapolis; Thomas F. Flynn, Cleveland; Thomas M. Garvey. Sharon. Pa.; William J. Gib­
bons. South Bend; Sgt. Thomas E. Greene, Wa­pello, TIL; Cadet Robert F. Holts. Elkhart. Ind.; John P. Mahoney (Air Corps). Ashtabula. O.; John S. Moulder, South Bend: Paul T. Non-ak. Akron; Francis J. O'Laughlin, Chicago; Michael 
F. Shannon. Los Angeles; X.ieut. George R. Sul­livan. Pensacola, Fla.; Casimer B. Vance, Brook­lyn; Eugene F. Vaslett (Army), Brooklyn. 
From Hal WUtiams: We'll lead off with a card from Lt. Melville 
E. Dark, 825th T.D. Bn.. Camp Gruben. Okla. Says Hel, "Just a note to let you know that I passed successfully the officer candidate court at Ft. Sill and that I am now stationed at Camp Gruber. Okla. Enjoyed your last column, but agree with you that more of the boys should indicate their whereabouts with a letter or a card. The class of 1928 was wondering about Joe O'Dowd. I visited htm last week-end at his home in Independence. Ho. Needless to say, Joe showed roe. his nephew, a wonderful time." Thanks. Mel. and write again, soon. 
Now, RoWrt Holtz, who is making his first appearance in this column. Writes he. "I came into the army last November through the draft and was immediately sent to Fort Bragg. I was in the FARC until Jan. 27 when tKey put me on a boat and sent me to Bermuda. I survived 5 ^ months there before the Army favorably acted upon my application for OfUcers* Candidate School. I am now (Aug. 1) at the Quartermaster School in Camp Lee, Va., and have hopes of re­ceiving my commission around Oct. 1. Then I hops to set a furlough. I have been in the army almost nine months now and have had only three days off. Since being here I have seen three fel­lows who attended Notre Dame. Hike Crowe, *38. is here at the QU school and is in the class ahead of me. Also Bob McGee, '38: he will get his commission ,Aus. 14. And then there is a chap named Allen, ex. '41, from Chicago; he is in my class. 

"I hope to see the Fighting Irish in action this fall, but it all depends upon where I am sta­tioned after receiving my commission. Something iar more important depends upon that same as­signment. I got her to say 'yes* over a year ago. but Uncle Sam so far has kept the knot from being tied. She is the same girl I was going with when I graduated in 1938. Her name is Alice Hood. Oh yes, it is stale news, but Bemie Mnr­d«dc, '38, is all tied down with war production at Bendix. I was his best man when he tied the knot last October." 
And now, another ser\*iceman. Lt. John Cleary: "Believe it or not, I am iinally back in Indiana— this time at Camp Atterbury, Columbus, about 30 miles south of Indianapolis. The camp is new and as yet only has a cadre. ... I went up to South Bend recently and looked over the old school .. . looks good . . . also saw some of Skerw^MTs old gang. . . ." Jack's address is 329th Inf.. 83rd Division, Camp Atterbury, Ind. 
And now Bud Sherwood. He is now in Flint, Hich. (1730 Detroit St). Iiis old home town. He writes that he is now in the tire business. What a business to be tn now! 
On Aug. 7 I received a note from Florence Harris. She wrote, "The last time I wrote you, Walter J. Harris. Jr., '38, was an aviation cadet, but ^noe then plenty has happened. Walter is now a lieutenant in the Army Air Force; he received bis commission and wings in July and I pinned his wings on. What an excting time that was, and I was so proud I On July 29 we were married here in Jers^ City. Walter is now stationed in Tucson, Ariz. And I plan to join him there ahortly." 
And then thete was the invitation to the wed­ding of Jalm Frmnds Clifford and Gertrude Mar­
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
garet Heinz. Ibe wedding took place on Aug. 22 at St. Leo's Church in Chicago. 
On Aug. 30 I attended an old-fashioned dixis­tening party at 4618 York Road, Baltimore, the home of Mr. and Mrs. Hal Lanvten. Hal and Dorothea are the proud—boy, are they proodi— parents of twins, John Francis and Michael Joseph, who arrived on Aug. 12. "Hiey are some boys, so we celebrated accordingly. 
Other Baltimore news: Bill Stapktmi, *36, of Boston, is in the Army and is stationed in Balti­more ; we work in the same office; Bill expects to leave for OCS school shortly. The other night we attended the Green Bay Packers-Washington Redskins game at the Baltimore Stadium. Ed Bcinor played a cracker-jack game for the Bed-skins at tackle; Jahnny Kovatdi was an end for the Packers. Another N.D. man was Steve Jazwik. Dr. Bob Bryan, '38, and his wife, the former Jean Pridmore. Bill Dooley's former assistant, are now living in Baltimore. Bob is on the staff of the Marine Hospital here. 
Several weeks ago Dr. and Mrs. William Mer­edith Smith, of Frederick. Md., announced the engagement of their daughter. Billie. to Harald 
A. Williams, Jr., of Baltimore. The wedding will take place Oct. 17 in Frederick. All are invited to attend. 
F. S. I was scooped on my on-n engagement. It was announced in the local press two weeks ago! 
Bob Browne was graduated on June 12 from the College of Medicine at the University of Illinois. And John R. Tobin, Jr., was graduated about the same time from Rush Medical College, Chicago, winning the highest student honors of his class. John Beer was still stationed at latest reports at Camp Forrest. Tenn., in the 129th In­fantry. John Ward was commissioned an ensign in the Navy and is stationed in Washington. D, C. Joe Callahan was last reported to be with the second Armored Division at Fort Benning. Ga. 
Ed Bartnett is in charge of preparing the hourly New York '"limes" radio news bulletins. Ge«rvc Fitzpatridc is an ensign in the Naval Reserve. 
Pvt. Ned Fishwick. ex. '38, is now with the Army in England. His address is Pvt. Edward H. Fishwick, 34201165, 13th FJV. Brigade. Hq. Btiy.. 
A.P.O. No. 302, New York, N. Y. He reports that Dave Bilfer is also in England. 
1939 
Vincent DeCMrsey. 454* JaiWe, KU K nw City, Ma^ 
Alarani Contributors, 1942-43 
Albert L. Brown, Crewe, Va.; Lieut Edward T. Clarke. Des Moines: John R. Duffy, Chicago; En­sign Joseph M. Dunn, Lakewood Village. Calif.: Charles J, Flanigan, Schenectady. N. Y.; llieo­dore P. Frericks, Marion, O.: Carl H. Frieke. Altadena, Calif.; Francis X. Gartland, Jr.. Mar­ion, Ind.; Marcellus J. Geerts. Akron: George E. Gcyer, Richmond Hill. N. Y.; Cadet James J. Green. San Antonio; Frederick W. Honerkamp, New York City; Russell L. Hunt, Wooosoeket. 
R. I.; John C. Jaxtheimer, Canton. O.; Norman 
B. Jenkins, Richmond, Ind.; John E. Lyndi (In Service). Conneaut, O.; Thomas A. Maher, De­troit; Roland A. Maririn. Fond da I<ae, Wis.: Lieut. Edward G. McDermott, Grand Rapids, Mich.: Pvt. John J. Miller. FSttsfield. Mass.: Lieut. Joseph B. Moorman, Charleston, S. C ; John S. Mortimer, C!hicago; George M. 0*N^ , Jr.. Fleetwood, N. Y.; George F. Plain, Jr., East Orange. N. J.; Gregory Rice. New York City: Carl L. Sabo, South Bend; Robert F. Schirf (Army). Altoona, Pa.; lieut. Julius F. Smon, Waco, Tex.; Charles H. Streator. Baldwin, N. T.; Capt. Timothy J. Stulb, San Diego; Joseph P. 
Sullivan. Jr., Littleton. Mass.; Charles J. Tbeisen, Salem, N. J.: Salvatore P. Trentacoste. Brooklyn; Ralph F. Wachter. Frederick, Md.; James C. Walsh, Oak Park. III. 
From l^c e DeCoaracy: One thing about Mr. Dooley. No class secretary need ever carry an alarm clock to tell him that fall is here; Mr. Dooley's little yellow card has alr&idy rung. And only two days late, which is a new record, product of a brand new resolution to be reasonably on time if possible, we are sit­ting down in front of this typewriter wondering what to WTite. 
The summer season found most ever>'one. and especially me, negligent about writing. But it looks as though, if General Hershey can be be­lieved, all mail will be free as far as this class is concerned before too long, and that ought to help the class sec. 
TTiree letters and two cards in three months sets a new low; one that we hoi>e will not be equaled for some time to ccme. 
In the order of their appearance: Dino Fabioni (still the faithful old standby) dropped a card late in June to the effect that Bob Ortale had finished in May and passed his bar exams; that Andy Ptnckney was in the ground division of the Air Corps; and that he himself would finish his third year of law on Jan. 26. 1943. This column would be a good deal less extensive if the local draft board decided Dino ought to be in the Army. 
nien a letter a few days later from Ensicn Tom F«yc, USNR, who said: "Just a line to let you know what's doing out here in the West. I am now in the Navy. Just before I left for active duty I gave an engagement ring to Miss Kath­leen O'Connor of Los Angeles and Mt. St. Mary's College—^the girl Bob Hncther told you about a year or so ago. 
"Bob Huether and a few of the N.D. gang were at my house just before I left. Bob is at Lockheed still and does some teaching on the side. Winnie Sdralte got married in May—he is with Douglas Aircraft. Sweeney Tack is still at Nortfarup and a newly-wed. Bob Waldeck got mar­ried within the past month too. Frank Meyers and his wife were over to see us before I left. Frank is at Northrup in an engineering capacity and really doing all right. Chick Banscli is back at Columbia Studios as a pasrmaster, cashier, etc. 
"My job is still somewhat uncertain [before we forget, the address on the envelope was Naval TVaining School, Treasure Island, San Francisco, Calif.], but will be most interesting and exciting. Another ensign here is from N.D.. Howard Kortk, *4I. Will let you know if and when we shoot at the Japs." 
And certainly we'll all be eager to hear too, Tom. Let us know. 
Ilien in answer to an apx>eal, rejieated and this time more insistently, that those at home ought to let noe know as much as possible about the boys who can't find time to write, came a letter from Angela Novak out of Lackawanna, N. Y., re­porting on her youngest brother, Frank J. Navalc Frank is a second lieutenant in the Army Signal Corps, at Camp Crowder, Mo., after being com­missioned at Camp Monmouth, N. J. He was mar­ried to Miss Stephanie Flak of the home town on April 15 and they are now living at Neosho^ Mo. And. before we forget, Crowder Is 200. Riley, 150. and Leavenworth about 25 miles from Kansas Gty. and anyone making it into port here can find our name in the phone book and is assured of «. welcome. 
Next a card from Class No. 7. O.C.S. Finance Dept., Fcvt Benjamin Harrison, Ind. — from John Cdfe sajring that he would be out of school in tiiree months (with prayer) wbidi would mean he would be Second lieutenant John C^lla about the middle of October. 

Last letter of the summer was from Ray Tille, 1540 44th St. N.W.. Washinston. D. C. Ray says: "More N.D. men than ever are arriving: here. I've seen Pat Gorman several times — he*s in law school here and was quite surprised the other nisht to see Jim HcGoMrick. He's in the FBI. Last June 20 marked the date of my, marriage. . . . Received a letter from my old pal, Rass Riley. and he's really Koing to town in Richmond, in medicine. Another N.D. man who's around town is Bill Waters but I don't know what he's doing." Ray is, of course, in med school in Washington. 
And that, except for a very short, but delightful, visit with Bob Heywood, between trains, is that. Bob brought news that Chariie Nelson was trying everything to get into military service, that Hark Mitdiell was very busy being married and run­ning his insuranire office, and that he himself was, just taking things easy. 
Well, Mr. Dooley, that is a disappointing report on the summer, but it's about the best we were able to do. Personally, we're very, very busy at the dairy business, but are finding time to dash into Chicago for a few days to see Dick Anton get married Sept. 26. Bride is Miss Louise Clement, whom wc know and approve of. Dick is to live in Charles City, la., where he is personnel man for Oliver Farm Equipment Co. 
So until next-cominp-of-the-card, let's hope we get more letters. 
Fred DIgby is studying for the priesthood at the seminary of the New Orleans archdiocese, which, interestingly, is Notre Dame Seminary in New Orleans. 
Jack McAoliffe took officer training for the Army at Camp Davis, N. C, after enlisting on Jan. 8, 1942. He was commissioned on July 24 and is now stationed at Camp I^ngdon, N. H. 
Scott Sheedy has been appointed manager of the Babb Insurance Agency in Pittsburgh. 
Bill Hahoney, former NJ>. track coach, is an ensign and is now assistant track coach at the Navy Pre-Flight School at Athens. Ga. 
1940 
Bobert G. Sanford. 3934 N. Maryland Ave.. Bfilwaokee, Wu. Alumni Contributors. 1942-43 Kaymond R. Allen, Battle Creek, Mich.; George W. Becker. Dallas: Paul A. Borgman. Wilmington. Del.: Eugene J. Devine, Jr.. Norwalk, Conn.: Lieut, James V. Donoghue, Jersey City. N. J.; Francis S. Driscoll. Detroit; Burt J. Hall. Balti­more; Pvt. George T. Horn (additional contribu­tion). Columbia, Pa.; Edward G. Hull (Army), Pittsburgh; Burley C. Johnston, Jr., Dallas; John D. Julian (additional contribution). Detroit: Charles M. Kelsey. Waterbury, Conn.; Edward C. Keen, Newport, R. I.: Aloysius J. Koss. Detroit; Anthony B. Lavelle. Cleveland; Brother Lawrence. O.P. (Bever). Somerset, O.: John C. Letcher, Washington, D. C.; Louis P. Maconi, Summer-ville, Mass.; Thomas P. Marker, South Bend; James P. McClarrcn, South Fork, P!a.; Joseph J. HcGuire, Denver; Victor R. Mercado, Wodhaven, N. Y.: William T. Meyers, Elgin, 111.; Carroll A. Hichels, South Bend; Brother Norbert, C.F.X., New York City; Sgt. James W..Plummer, Zanes­ville. Ohio; John G. Poulin, South Bend; Louis J. Reilly. St. Augustine, F'la.; Philip F. Rosbach (additional contribution). Sylacauga, Ala.; Vin­cent J. Ryan, Stamford. Conn.; Donald J. Sack­ley. Chicago; Robert G. Sanford, Milwaukee; Tliomas B. Schmid, Lubbock, Tex.; Robert F. Schmit (Army), Evanston, HI.; Clarence T. (Pete) Sheehan (Army). Youngstown. O.; Ter­rence J. Smith, New Orleans; David W. Sprafke, Meriden, Conn.; William S. Thomas, Jackson Heights, N. Y.; Edward J. J. Tracey, Joliet, 111.; Louis A. Urbanski, Toledo; James A. Vatga. Peoria, III.; George S. Wallace. Brooklyn; Joseph C. Whitford. Bradley Beach. N. J.: Robert L. 
The local photographer was able to catch these four among the Notre Dame men who were in the V-7 Navy School from Aug. 11 to Aug. 26. Left to right are Dan O'Brien, '36, John W. Welch. '40. Clarence "Rube" Marquardt, '41, and Robert S. Howley. '41. 
Wille. Cincinnati: Lloyd F. Worley. Tulsa; Ed­ward P. Wurtzebach, Notre Dame. 
From Bob Sanford: 
It certainly looks as though the class of *40 has taken over the Army; of course the campus is all Navy these days, but, according to the mail I received, just about everyone that remembers how to write is in the U. S. Army, 
The report published this month \vill not be up to my usual standard of literary value. Reason: I'm rushed. 
From now on and until further notice, all of you who wish to write (and I know everyone of' you wants to write me a note) can address the correspondence to Pvt. R. G. Sanford, Barracks 
428. Hq. Area. RRC. Ft. Sheridan. III. I have been located here as part of the permanent per­sonnel until the ofHcials decide that the perma­nent location has become temporary. I am mak­ing myself very busy by working in the records section of the Reception Center in the accounting department. The work is very interesting. 
Ibis is a fairly good spot for one to keep an eye on the N.D. men who are inducted into the Army from Wisconsin and upper Michigan. Boh Timmel of the class of *42 has been an outstand­ing Softball pitcher for the Reception Center team. He has left here and is now at Cp. Mc­Coy, Wis. One of my bunk mates is Ed Ed­monds. *41, who works in the classification section, interviewing the men newly inducted into the army. Neal Gleason has left Ft. F. E. Warren and the QM Dept. and is now at Cp. Carson with the Engineers. 
The mail came at intervals during the summer months. Gene Golden*, mother wrote a short note saying. "Ensign Philip E. Golden. TJSNR. of the N.D, class of '40. received his 'wings* commission June 23. 1942. at Miami, Fla.. and is taldnK further training at San Diego. Cal. He trained at Anacostta. D. C. Jacksonville. Pensacola and Miami. He was home on a furlough and is now on the West Coast" Thanks very much. Mrs. Golden. • 
A note sent from the Hawaiian Islands on June 26 was received last month and bis Ed DoochectT is located once again. Ed says. "Have been in Hawaii for some time now and gcttins to be a real native. Wish we were all back at good old N. D. again, but sno* > lot <i< Om bova ai* married br now. Would like to m 
Dtfr. •wtcfed. mdMr. of the old saas. I ban aa apptteatka offieeraT trainins adiaol wUdi has tssa ap­proved. Hops tbCT call me soon." 
14. Firsak nn i sars. "Just saotiwE •••bi r of the class dropping m line to ssj the aisar is still pretty good and taking most of my tiaK. 
"Tbe class of *40 seems to be dotes all ri^A as far as the ei^th division is luiimiiei. Tbce 
N. D. men are here. Pat GaC, Jack Maiar. aad myself. On Aug. 8 I joined the ranks of the msrried. I married home town talent. Miss A(U» Lynch. 
. "It looks like I got a bresk bam the start. I gradosted a second lientenant, SBgiBecn. in April and in Jnlr received my flrst UeatcBaBt commission and also a cooipany r nmmsirllTT*r position; I am in command of Co. 'D,' 24th Chemicsl Engr. Bn. Ihe Army is expanfag and the Engineers are a great ontllt. Hope to use mr accounting soon when I get at the conipaay's books. 
"Give ray regards to all the boys' and I hope that we will all get together in 1945.** 
You're not the only one that hopes we can get together in '45. Frank. Yoa can bet yoer paydieck that we NJ>. men will see to it that we can make it then. 
Pfc Jim SUdy writes from his wcsther squadron snd tells us. "Just a note to let yoa know what I've been doing lately. Was in­ducted at It . Snelling Isst April 25 and sent to the Air Corps BepL Thg. Geo. at JeffsrsoB Barracks. Was sent to weatlier -observers* sdioot after recnving basic training. Am now attached to the 4th Weather Obaerver*s Sonadnm. HarAar FU., La. I*ve finally been able to track down Jadt Pindar; sent a letter to him and Jayne at Ft. Knox. Ky., bat imagine he has moved. 
"Where are Bod CDMudi. Artie Otcriwitr. Pets Mattsti. C. B. McCaaaa. Bab Biadbr and the rest of tlie erew. Woold like to hear fion them or at least find oat where they are. 
"I was' married to Patty Ndn a of Iioagview, Wash., last Oct. 25. She got down to NJ>. for my brother's gradoation and met some of the boys snd FatlMr. Trahcy. Please ask some of the old gang to write.** 
Thanks. Jim. 
Received a letter from Ireland recently and. of coarse, Jska 0*Biicn made his way to the "old sod." John writes: '-'War is levonnble tor many. 'firsts* in oar everyday living today, and it has landed me in a spot whidi saoves me to break down and drop yoa a line. 
"La^t summer I enjoyed the-presence of Phil Saadmaler and Jack CSk in-the Boosier capitaL At that time Phil waa in tlie Army and Jack was *«flls?iri"g the advertising departsEHnt of the In­diana Bdl TA. Phil is now in the Army, but just where he is, is aoraething I woaU like to know. BOs Kdky soit word that he and Mra. Belley (Lomse O'Hara of the Senior Ball) are in the Navy Beeraiting Office at Indianapolis. 
"Jack Hack (Long John) and FMl (lfaad> MsiiissM and I planned a reankm in PhDIy last Mardi, bat at the last moment -we were naaUe to get leaves at the sHiointsd date. Morrisoa is an ensign in the Navy and Mack, at last msnta, is elooe on his heeb, att«n£ns the Nasy sdaiol at Harvard. Jska Gantaey is at IndiaBa Vaiver­sity SAooI of Medicine and will aoca cK his MJ>. The flrst word frees my- roomie. Tat ••••. gave the informatiaii that he was haadsi for the Air Corps, after serving aevcnl months i a the Cavafay. 
"As for my own Army career, I donned the uniform of a buck private last October. Since then I've manatred to meet Ed Hynes, '41. and several other N.D. boys at Aberdeen, Md. Even­tually I found my way to the 'old sod* of native Ireland. These Irish institutions seem to have a drawinjr power on me. and in keeping with the Hoosier's Irish spot this place has rain and more rain, followed by a little additional rain. The Emerald Isle is filled with many beautiful sights, both feminine and geographical, but readinpr the 'Alumnus* certainly makes a fellow yearn for the sight of our own beauty spot for four years— the campus. 
"I would like to go into more detail. Bob, con­cerning the fellows I've mentioned, but I'm afraid censorship would put a halt to very much infor­mation, so here's wishing all the men of '40 the best of luck." 
The best of luck to you, Johnny, and it won't be long before we will be back at that campus for our reunion. Here is Johnny's address, let's try and write—Sgt. John J. O'Brien—35 171 047, 109th Ordnance Co., APO No. 305, c-o Postmaster, New York City, N. Y. 
Word from around here indicates that Dan Hnshek is now a master sergeant, married and living in Florida some place. Ihere isn't much more news and I haven't any more time any way. Let's hear from the Na\T and the Marines and the rest of our class. 
Bad Bernard is an ensign in' the Na\T sta­tioned at Dartmouth college, Pcfc Shcchan is sta­tioned at Camp Lee, Va., with the Army. Tom HacDevitt, ex. *40, has been with the 23rd Infan­try at Fort Sam Houston for over a year. 
Johnny Hdntyre reports that he is an ensign and an instructor in the Naval Air Station at Corpus Christi. Texas. Frank Biagi is in the Army at Fort Warren, Wyo. Lt. Ben Sheridan finished his officers* training at Fort Riley, Kans. 
Lt. Robert Rodibaach has been assigned to the headquarters of the Seventh Armored Division. C«rl Qninn is with the Army in foreign ser\'ice. with the finance department. His address: Finance Detachment, A.F.O. 997 cjo Postmaster, Seattle. Wash. Phil Sandmaier and Carl were together in finance work at Fort Harrison, Ind. James Cleary has been promoted from second lieutenant to first lieutenant in the Medical Administrative Corps of the array. Walter Hagen, Jr., has been com­missioned second lieutenant in the armored divi­sion of the Army. 
DODEUS Eby was graduated as a second lieu­tenant from the Army Air Corps advanced flying school at Luke Field. Ariz., and transferred to an air base at Sacramento, Calif. 
Joe Hulqueen has been advanced to a captaincy in the Marines. Oiarlie Weilbacher, who was sta­tioned at the air base in Tucson, Ariz., and then sent to Miami Beach for officer training, has been commissioned lieutenant. His address is: 342nd Base Hq. and Air Base Hq., Greenville. 
S. C. He is squadron adjutant, mess officer, sup­ply officer and chemical warfare officer. 
Don Foskett is in the Army in officer training. His full address is: Company E., 2nd Regiment, 
Q.M.
 School, Camp Lee, Va. He reports that Bob Sallivan is -with the Army Air Corps at Goldboro, 

N.
 C. 


Lieut. Vince Doyle is stationed at Luke Field. Phoenix, Ariz. 
I A^ I J*^ ^- Patterson, Jr., 5530 Darlinff-I /I I ton Rd^ Pittsborcb, Pa. Alnmni Contribntors, 1942-43 
Louis W. Apone, Brownsville, Pa.; Ensign An­thony M. Bernard, Youngstown, O.; Pv-t. J. L. Buckler, Fort Williams, Me.: Lieut. Clifford G. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ENSIGN ROBERT J. SAGGAU, '41 —Official U.S. Na\'y Photograph 

Recently commissioned an ensign after training at Glenview, 111., and Corpus Christi, Texas, Bob Saggau of football and track fame is now on active flying duty with the Navy. 
Buckley. Valley Stream, N. Y.: William E. Buen­ger. River Forest, 111.; Thomas H. Connor, Peoria, 111.: William T. Daly, Waterhury, Conn.; Sgt-Eugene E. De Lay, St. Paul; Albert J. Del Zoppo, Niagara Falls. N. Y.; William R. Hawes. Wash­ington. D. C.; Lawrence W. Henke. Jr., Urbana, O.; Lieut. - John M. Hennessy, Camp Gmber. Okla.: Robert E. Iliff, Los Angeles; Louis A. MacKenzie (Army), Groton. Conn.; Edward A, Mahoney, Jr., Canton, O.; George J. Maury, Hish­awaka, Ind.; John N. McDonnell (Army), Sun­burj*. Pa.: Ensign Joseph B. McGeever, Birming­ham, Ala.; John H. Monaghan, Bridgeport, Conn.; Corp. Robert E. Moran, Oklahoma City; Louis A. Reiser, Johnstown. Pa.; John M. Ryan, Hahanoy City, F^.: Sgt. Edward V. Shevland. West Phila­delphia; Roger J. Shouvlin. Savannah. Ga.; Daniel 
J. Steck, Jr., West Palm Beach, Fla.; William J. Syring, Washington, D. C.: John E. Walsh. Glen­dale, Calif.; Robert B. Welly, Detroit; John W. Young, Port Huron, Mich. 
A hurr>--up request to John 0*Loaghlin, Chica­go, to fill in for Sergeant Patterson of England and points east produced the following happy results: 
. . . I'm still with the illinois Bell Telephone Company. The Army beckoned but I came up with a deferred classificationl It's not entirely to my liking, but I can't do anything about It for the present. 
My roomie, Dan Bradley, writes that he is en­listed in the Naval Reserve, and is working for 
U. S. Rubber in Detroit while he is waiting to be called. Another roomie. Tim Lynch, ex. '41, is in the Army. 
Tom Tmeman. a recent private, now stationed in Madison, Wis., dropped in over Labor Day week-end. We made a hurried trip to N.D. to see the campus once more. We didn't see much more than the Na\T. though. Tom Reis and Bok Kenney were taking the pre-indoctrination course and liking it. 
Back in Chicago, we ran into Jim Carn^ who is in Medical School at Loyola. With him there are Walt Hartnng, Sal La Pilnsa, Jim Conner, and Dick Leahey and Ed Posner, both ex. Mi's. Jim wants to know why Frank Link, who is at Cincinnati University, hasn't written. According to Jim, Dan Stack's wedding on campus was really something. Dan is now a flying instructor in Florida. 
I attended Frank Kennedy's wedding this week. Frank, who had just received his commission in the Signal Corps, married Pat Thomas, his Senior Ball date. Emmet Nccas, who is working the night shift in a defense plant, ushered. B:U Sturm was there in his new role as a Na\'y officer. Bill is stationed at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. 
Occasionally. I get together with Jim McCsrthy, 

who is an accountant with Price Wnterhouse Co. . He informs us that Ed Hultgren is an accountant with Haskins & Sells here in Chicago. Norm Heckler is working in a defense plant while wait­
ing to go into the service. 
Bill Demraling is v.'orking for the Carnegie-Illinois Steel Corp.. as was Tom Gallagher when I last saw him. 
While I was on my way to Maine this summer. I ran into Tom' Gcselbracht in Boston. A Navy officer, he was on his way to the Portsmouth Navy Yard. Paul Scully, a fellow Maine man. was at­tending officers' training school in the South. 
A girl who works for me was responsible for my finding the whereabouts of Jack White, the star of Washington Hall. Jack is now in the Army Signal Corps, stationed at Janesville. Wis. I also had a telephone conversation with another of our former actors. John Coppinger. Coppie had been soldiering in Panama for quite some time, but' was on his way to Texas and the Air Corps when I talked to him. 
Jim Spellman has corresponded with me a good deal. Since he's been in the Army he's traveled quite a bit. At present he is trying to get settled at Fort Lewis, Wash. 
For now, I think I've given out with all the news I have. Maybe I'll have more later. I'd like to hear from any of the fellows who have time to w^rite these days. A card addressed in care of the Telephone Company will reach me. 
Ed's, note: Thanks, John. You done noble, especially on such short notice. . . . For next issue, we're going to put the finger on a guy who carried on his nefarious business in the Alumni Office for a year—Cap Jehring of Washington, 
D. C. Your news from the world capitals will be due Nov. 15, Jehring.) 
Set. John Patterson, class secretary-, entered the army intelligence early in the summer after serving on the Sunday staff of the "Pittsburgh Press." Mrs. Annie Powers, the mother of Lt. David Powers, wrote to John with the news that her son is somewhere in the Pacific Islands. John's father wrote back that they had not heard from their son in five or six weeks and presumed he was in England or Ireland. Their presumption w-as correct for they were notified recently that John was to speak the following week on the "Stars and Stripes in Britain" program which features each week a letter home from some member of the armed forces in England or Ireland. Patterson mentioned in his letter over this program that he had met the hill-billy guitar player, Joe Kalten­bach who is also abroad. 
BlUton Williams is now at Fort Benning, Ga., for officers' training- after previously serving at Camp Claiborne, La. Hanrice Stauder is now cou­nte d with the Electro Motive Corp. in LaGrange, III., working with Diesel motors. Midizel Derbin is now with the Army at Fort Knox, Ky. Art Haraby is a second lieutenant in the Army Air 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Corps at Bradley Field, Conn. Joe Somers has been attached to the 40th Armored Regiment. 
Leo Hillebrand is a lieutenant in the Marines. His latest address is: Hdas. Co. F.M.F. Training Center. Camp Elliot. San Dief^o, Calif. 
Sift. B. J. (Barney) Ferry, formerly of Balti­more, is a radioman aboard our big bombers. Ad­dress is 946th School Squadron. Ajo. Ariz. He has just passed the physical exam required for ad­mittance to Aerial Gunnery School and his ap­plication was accepted so he may soon be trans­ferred. 
1942 
William E. Scanlan. 701 W. Wisconsin. PorUse, Wis. 
Alumni Contributors, 1942-43 

Victor J. Assad, Minnecpolis: Joseph A. Bsr­K^n, South Bend; John W. BerRen. Lancaster, 
N. Y.; John C. BerminKham. \Vharton. N. J.: Bsrnard F. Brehl, Fort Wayne, Ind.: Edward A. Buenjrcr. River Forest, III.; Daniel D. Canale. Memphis: Donald P. Casey, Oshkosh. Wis.; Fran­cis J. Concannon (Army). Brooklyn: Pvt. Donald 
D. Connors. Jr., Fort Dix, N. J.; Charles H. Detrer, Dayton, O.; Thomas F. Dejman, WilminK­ton. Del.; Joseph H. Diamond. Detroit: William 
F. Dillhoeffer, East Orange, N. J.; Robert R. Donahoe, Sioux Falls, S. D.: William J. Farrell, Bronx, N. Y.: Pvt. James J. Gait, Camp Swift, Tex.; Francis E. Gibson, Freehold, N. J.: FbiUp 
W. Glasser, Charieroi, Pa.; Robert C. Haines, Newark, N. J.: John F. Hanifin. Erie, Pa.; John 
F. Hartman. Hamburtr, N. Y.: William W. Hart­man, Dayton, O.; Lawrence F. Hickey, Brooklyn; William A. Hosinski, South Bend; Leo M. Humphrey, Cedar Raptds, la.; Paul J. Jacoby. St. Louis: James J. Leahy, Park Falls, Wis.; Domi­nick J. LoGiudice, Brooklyn; Felix J. Lownik. Chicajro; Philip J. Lucier, Warsaw, Ind. 
William B. Madden, Lake Placid. N. Y.: John 
P. MaRuire. Attleboro, Mass.: John R. Malone. Toledo: Robert E. Malone, Canton, O.: William A. Marshall, Chicaso; Richard T. Matlavish. Christo­pher, III.: John F. McCabe, West Chicawo. III.: Donald F. McGinley. Ojrallala, Nebr.; Bernard C. McKay, Indianapolis: William E. Meier, Faulkton. 
S. D.; Walter J. Minder, Wooster, O.: Edward J. Monahan, Jersey City. N. J.: John F. Morris. Mountain Lakes, N. J.: William F. Morrow. Louisville; Peter V. Moulder. Evanston. HI.: F^ul 
V. Murphy, Metuchen, N. J.; Richard C. Mur­phy, Forest Hills, N. Y.; James E. O'Donohoe (Army), Grand Rapids, Mich.: Francis E. O'Dowd, Oak Park, III.; Frederick J. Payne, Notre Dame: Francis M. Sellers, South Bend; Joseph A. Seuf­fert, Newark. N. J.: Robert F. Tlmmel, Ocono­mowoc. Wis.; James H. Tracey, Belle Harbor, 
N. Y.; Leo V. Turseon, Topeka. Kans.; Robert 
THE 1942 DOME 
When the seniors left in May it seemed 

certain that the "Dome" would be ready 
tor distribution by early July at the latest. 
Even more complications were to plaffue 
the editors, however, and so it was not 
until Autnist that the book was finally oaL 
A hold-up in the bindery, due to Army 
manuals (which had to be bound first) 
caused one of the final and longest delays. 
A book was mailed to each senior finish­

infr in May. The home address on file in 
the oflice of the Director of Student Ac­
counts was used unless a different address 
had been given to the Publications Office. 
If any 1942 graduate entiled to a "Dome" 

did not receive it for any reason, the Pub­
lications Office will be glad to investigate. 
Just drop a note. 
Regrets for the delay from every one 
concerned. 
C. Uhl, South Bend: George A;. Uhl, Indianapolis; Francis A. Veit, Grand Rapids. Mich. 
From Scoop Scanlan; If the class of 1942 ever holds a 10-year re­union, a medal for reportorial persistency should go to that much-traveled Massachusetts Hauler, Pvt. Paul Neville, currently Uncle Sam's proper­ty at Buckley Field, Colo. Within a month, Neville scooted from a job covering the police news for' the South Bend "Tribune" to Ware. Mass., to Fort De\*ens, Mass., to Miami Beach. Fla.. Air School to Buckley Field. . . . Five addresses within a month. 
"I was inducted into the Army July 28," he writes, "and August 11 reported to Fort Devens, Mass. Three days later I left for Miami Beach— but the air force is fine." 
Neville lets Tom Powers take up from Great Neck, N. Y.: 
"An hour after I stepped off the train from South Bend, May 14, I was on the job at the place on the corner of Northern Boulevard and Cutter Mill Road, just two blocks from the city limits of New York City but right in the realm of Great Neck. I've been getting lots of exercise, fresh air. sun, food and golf. I drive the tractor-mower around with the cockiness of all the other farmers around this hamlet, pick up most of the 
5.000 golf balls we have to work with, pay the bills and myself, of course, and chase after those who try to swipe balls." He reported, too. that he gets out to see Frank Lavelle often. "He's got a defense job at Sperry Gyroscope in Brooklyn. 
"On my way out to Far Rockav.-ay the other night. I ran into Don Cmnera of our class who lives in Bel Air. He's goins to Fordham law school, working with a law firm for experience and no doubt some dough too. He says I was the third N.D. *42 he ran into durins the day, the first and second being TeM Walker, who is with Grace Lines and learning Spanish at ni^t . and Walt McNaUy who took time off from his dad's restaurant in Jersey and was in town. Be says Bin StarMtts is around too, as is Bj f Kaaalcy of Chicago who is working for Union Carbide and Carbon. I called Ji a Baike Sundry. He's reeoper­ating from an infected ear. He was helpins scrap the Normandie. He says Bfatty Byrne is in Glenr view." 
From Belvidere. 111., comes a report — via Neville — from EmiMtt Kecnan: 
"Was up to Howard Street. Chicago, last night and dropped into a tavern to get out of the rain. While there somebody started the 'Victory BCardi.' I investigated and found Qacntin BlanhalL He's in the Navy Air Force at Glenview, 111., along with about 30 other Notre Dame fellows. Jehn Griffin came along too, so we had quite a get-together. 
''Malty Byrne. Danny DaUU, Bmk Haaf. Ed Danlavy, Panl Kelly. Red Hickey. Bill KcUy. Walt McCMirt. BiB Grady and Steve Graliker are among others from Notre Dame at Glenview. Dick Lajaie is in Denver with the Army; Jin Joden is a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps at Birmingham. Ala. (He got married early this month, by the way) : Paal O'ftblley is at Camp Grant, III.; Qaentin O'Connell was downstairs the other day but I didn't get to speak to him. Saw the 'Hard Han* Tracy the other day. Haven't heard from Joe HrmdioTec but he should have been inducted-Aug. 24. I haven't heard the exact date for my induction, but it still is 'the first bunch that leaves from Belvidere in September.* " 
Hradwvec had written to Kecnan: "Pm plan­ning on leaving for induction from Edgemont, 
S. D., Aug. 24. along with 15 to 20 Indians. I see I will have a chance to brush up on my native tongue.*' 
Deep in the heart of Texas — from Sheppard Field — comes a report from Ed Drake: 
"I enlisted in the Army Air Corps as a Flying Cadet June 17. After spending three weeks at Fort Niagara, N- Y., I was shipped down here where I am receiving conditioning training and awaiting appointment to a flight school. This field is a veritable Hades; some days the temperature on the drill field reaches 120. While at Fort Niagara I ran into Lee Hastinca (Gikson's roommate in No. 4 Sorin), at the Service club but evidently he was 
Five Notre Dame men were among the class which* on Aug. 5» receiTed the silver wines of th« Army Air Force at (rmdhut­
tion ceremonies in the advanced Hying schools of the Gulf Coast Air Force Training Center. Left to right they are Lieat. R. J. Eichenlauby Jr., ex. '42, whose father is the noted R. J. '15, of Columbus, O.; Lieut. Roger H. Henry, ex. '44, Lieut. Roman Nich­olas Lamberto, '38, Robert £. Langlois, '41, and Lieut. John N. D. Smith. 
More and more Notre Dame men are flying for Uncle Sam. Recently commiutoned in the Army Air Corps were the fol­
lowing, left to right: Lieut. Joseph F. Campagna, ex. '43, Lieut. Irving M. Cochrane, 
Lieut. Edward J. Malone, *41, and Lieut. 
shipi>ed out the next day as I did not see him again." 
My old roomie from AValsh hall. James Patrick O'Laarfalin, now gets saluted. Imagine that. He was commissioned a lieutenant in the Marines: He says: 
"Suffice it to say that I received my commission on Aug. 22 after a tough period of training. Vince Dsisler, Jake Morris and a couple of other 
N.D. men were commissioned on that same date. And then there were a few of our old classmates who missed out and returned to civilian life and the authority of the draft boards. 
"The fellows here are fine. I actually believe this Marine Corps is the closest thing possible to "Notre Dame itself. The majority here are Catho­lics and Irish too. Such names, as 0*Connor. O'Brien, O'Herron, Murphy and Kelly are not absent from our roster. 
"I met Stan Littizette one week-end at the Mayflower in Washington. He is working in the fingerprint department of FBI. Hjid a letter from Don Qatnn. He went through radio school at Scott Field, III., and is now stationed in Texas. He wants to get assigned to a bomber. Jim O'Brien (so V. Daigler tells me), is a draftee at Fort Meade, outside of AVashington, D. C. Saw Jim HcGoIdrick here at Quantico last week. He is training as a special agent with the FBI. They do a lot of training on the Marine ranges." 
Shuttling back to the Mid West, we get a report from Albert Plotkin, who does the impossible . . . getting a degree in philosophy, now working as an engineer. He reports: 
"I went out to school last week and I found the latest sons of Notre Dame carrj-ing on in the same spirit whetiier in war or peace. I w;is sorrj* to see Dr. Fitzsrerald, the philosophy professor whom I worked for as a corrector, leave for the Naval Intelligence. I spoke to Frank O'Mailey, the red-headed idol of the English majors, and he told me that it wouldn't be long before he would be lea'ving for the ser\'ice. 
"After s]iending four fruitful yelirs in the College of Liberal Arts, majoring in philosophy. I got a job as an engineer, testing Wright bomb­ing engines for the Studebaker Aircraft Corp.. a new factory in South Bend. Don't ask me what I knew about engines because I was totally ig­norant about any kind of mechanics. But it wasn't long before I was able to use a slide rule, learn logarithms, and distinguish 1>etween a pair of pliers and a monkey wrench and I be­f:ame an engineer. 
"I took special courses in a defense school at right to help me along. In my department there  Thomas M. Tiemey, ex. *40. 

are three Notre Dame men from the class of *42: Charles (Tex) Lohr, Fred Beckman and yours truly. I plan to work here until the middle of September and then I will leave for Cincinnati to prepare for my theological training. I hope to later become a Jewish Chaplain in the army." 
The Class of '42 has a couple of feminine cor­respondents : Mrs. Lora Lashbrook, assistant to Dean Manion of the Law School, presents a complete picture of law students: 
"There are only two 1942 law graduates who have failed to report in—one is Hank Sdirenker who I understand is enlisted in the Naval Re­serves, and the other. James Alien Ban u of Florida. 
"Of the others, four have been appointed special agents by the FBI. Tliere are James Mc-Goldrick. William Hooney. Robert RidiardHm and John Killen. The Army called James Lancaster of South Bend. lUdiard Swisher married the day after Commencement and is now with an account­ing firm in Chicago, practicing a combination of law and accounting there. James H. Nea ac­cepted a legal position with the Columbia Broad­casting Company and is now in New York. Ed­ward Kelly, Anthony Bernard and Jerome 0*Dowd have enlisted in the Naval Reserx'e and are now on active duty. Joseph Miller also enlisted in the Naval Keser\'e and was awaiting call. Alexis Tsiolis, John Verdonk, John Ward. Wan! J. Raf­ferty, Philip J. Hamel, H. R. Anderson, Jahn W. Barry,. E. C. Timpani, Edward M. Porten and Rocco J. Monteffna were awaiting calls to army service at the time of their last communication. John M. Speca was also being considered fay military authorities. 
"William Syrinc was appointed to a position with the Office of Government Reports in Wash­ington." 
Josephine Kagnolia, Jce's sister, writes a brief note from Trenton. N. .T.: "Joe enlisted in the Army Air Oarps upon returning home from graduation and is now a physical education in­structor at Miami Beach. Fla., Replacement Center." 
Fred Paulmann, in August, wrote from New Rochelle, N. Y.: ' 
"I am passing the summer by working as a life guard for one of the Westchester Beach clubs, but will enter Harvard Graduate school in Sep­tember in the Industrial Management Engineering course. From this program I hope to eventually secure a commission in the Navy. Tom Keacdy is visiting Father HolF in Montana at the present time." 
We were surprised to hear from John C (Bill) Kirby, surprised that he had been on the sick list. His letter said: 

 ex. '40, Lieut. Harold F. Demple, ex. '40, 
"Frank Fox is staying at Jim O'Lanshlin's home in Washington for the present—he's with the FBL After graduation, I spent a few weeks in Oklahoma with Don O'Brien. Had a fine trip. 
"Last I heard. Dare Johnston was back on the campus. While I was in the hospital two weeks ago (that on July 15), I met Father Hooney who is head of the N.C.C.S. He said his outfit is proud of the N.D. boys in the camps and he should know because he had just gotten back from a tour of all the Southern camps." 
Another southern point heard from when Clarence Imboden, Jr., communicated from Mor­rillon. Ark.: 
"I noticed our friend Joe Hradiovec is in Hot Springs. I'd like to run over and see him—if I could get his address. Recently I recei\-ed my en­sign commission in the U.S.N.R., medical corps, and so I'm all set to enter Tulane Medical school in August. I heard from Vinre Hogan last week —he's chaplain's aide at Camp Perry, Ohio." 
Indianapolis, Ind.. is present and accounted for by a report from George Uhl: "I've heard from Fred Trenkle. whose address is now 813 Franklin Ave., Wilkinsburg, Pa. He is working for West­inghouse Electric Co., and Andy Gorka is there with him. He says that Tark Rively and Dodse Anselakos are working for Westinghouse in Bloomfield, N. J. 
"Dan Howell, from school, says that Slash Richards is there and EaH Dean is somewhere in Virginia. I've seen Frank Quinn several times here. He's working at Bridgeport Brass until called for by the Na\*y. John Donnelly is at Bloomington, Ind., inspector f or the Signal Corps at RCA Mfg. Co. Bill Yeaser is in the same boat at Rochester, and Bcmie (One Blow) Wojek is at Newark. N. J., near his home town of Elizabeth, N. J. I've met some nice people here. TTie CYO here at Cathedral parish is quite pctive and I've met lots of s^vell fellows and girls. One little gal isn't so bad — in fact we played tennis and went for a canoe ride today." 
Jim Rice, the red-headed Reedsburg, Wis., phy­ed, began his coaching career at his alma mater, Reedsburg high school, this month. He spent the summer directing playground work at the same town and learned that Eddie Ostroski, e.x. '42, from Pennsylvania has been transferred to Watersmeet, Mich., and expects to visit Rice soon. 
When last heard from. Bob Uhl of South Bend vas waking up the bugler at the Army Air Forces Technical School. Keesler Field. Miss. That was part of his job. His communique states: "Now that I've finished basic training. I'm working in the squadron orderly room every other night as 'runner' for the charge-of-quartcrs. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
I expect to be called to weather observer school before the end oE August. 1 suppase you know Ray Donovan is assistant to Jim Armstronr in the publicity office at Notre Dame. 
"The last I heard from Bucky Walters, he was unsuccessfully trying to join the Navy or the Marines. I had a tetter from George Westenber­cer recently and he is awaiting a commission from the Navy as a supply officer. John Lnth­rinfer is (or was, if the Army hasn't called him) working in Chicago for an' advertising firm. I have met only one Notre Dame gradaute down here so far—^he is John Donly. '36, from Virginia I believe. I haven't had much of a chance to talk with him as yet, since I just happened to see his ring the other night when I gave him his pass." 
Another Texas communication comes from Pvt. James J. Gait, dated Aug. 15: 
"I received by 'Alumnus' today and really en­joyed reading about the other NJ). men—e.spe­cially where they were and what they are doing. I was inducted July 8 at Scott Field. 111., and arrived at Camp Swift, Texas, July 18. They really sent me a long way from home, Shawnee-town. III., but I don't mind it so much. The cli­mate here is O.K. and that helps things: n lot. 
"I haven't received my first pay as yet. but when I do, you'll find my name as a contributor for the alumni fund now being raised. Ted Mac­Donald and I exchanged visits in May and we were back at school for a week-end. He's to go back to N. D. in August or September for train­ing in V-7. Received a letter from Jim O'Donohne of Grand Rapids, Mich., who enlisted and is now doing office work for the Army at Fort Custer, Mich." 
Jack Dinges, former "Scholastic" sports editor, currently claims Patterson Field, Fairfield, O.. as his home town. He writes: "I've been in the Army Air Force since June 7. I'm taking a head­quarters or administration course here at Pat­terson Field. The idea is that I'll be trained to fit into a team forming an Air Depot group, a base to be established 'somewhere.' 
"Hank Dahm is enrolled in the summer semes­ter, as is Norm Van Sile and Zeke Zimmer and Tom Kaoffman is home in Detroit anticipating army service. I hear Johnny Kelly is married. Joe Comerford is back at N.D. and filarty Fitz­patrick is headed for Columbia Med school. This writing is being done under trying conditions. I'm sitting on a foot locker and using a suitcase for a desk and listening to the All-Stars baseball game with one ear." 
One of the fellows who helped the Eastern Army All-Stars whip the New York Giants pro league outfit the other day was Cpl. Steve Bagar­ns, ex. '42, the halfback whiz of the west coast, from Camp Callan, Calif. 
Bad Ford, the red-head tennis ace, just got his commission from the Navy and Tommy Hoyer, his auburn-haired sister reports, is still at Scott Field, 111. She also said Vincc Hogan is at Fort Thomas, Ky. Where are you, Vince—Kentucky or Ohio? 
From Camp Shelby, Miss., arrived a postcard "Hello" from CpL George M. Reichle. the speech professor. He is with the Headquarters batter>'. 
As for the Scooper. I'm located currently at the Public Relations Office, Fort Sheridan, 111. Bob Timmel, of Oconomowoc, Wis., arrived here over a month ago and is currently the pitching whiz of the post Softball team. In his first game, he stopped the Elgin, DK, Watches, 1941 Illini champs, with a lone single—a bunt—as he beat them, 3 to 0. Paul O'Hallcy was also here for awhile, getting his basic training. Timmel reports 
TOM FERNEDING INJURED 

Ensign Tom Femeding, '40, was injured while on Navy duty in the Solomon Island battles. When he was put on a transport to be re­turned to a hospital in the States, he found that his twin brother. En­sign John, '40, was' on the same boat. Tom is now in an Oakland, Calif., hospital and expects to be released by December. 
that Tom Fallon is still awaiting his call to a Navy commission. 
While at a XJSO dance in Highland Park, 111., a few weeks ago, who should "cut in" the Vassar college grad I was dancing with but Miland Ed­monds, '40. who is also a Sheridanite. Also' ran into Bob Saxiford, '40, who's located in the ac­counting office here. He says he can forget the first two letters and let it go at "counting." 
The other night, Timmel and I, among 500 other Sheridanites, got a foggy thrill when Steve Juzwik scampered 84 yards for the game's long­est run as the College All-Stars, augmented by Capt. Bemie Grimrains, Capt. Paul LillU, Ray Eblt. Bob Maddock, Jim Bmtz. Bob Hargrave. John Kovatch, of the class of *42. did some more yelling. Worst part of it all was that we were so far away we didn't know till the announcer said so that it was our Stevie who ran so far. 
Pushing through the 100.000 crowd after the game, we met D. J. (Nappy) NapoUtan* and John Scannell of the Fhy.-Ed. department. Don't be surprised if Nappy reports with a Naval com­mission soon. Jim Hackner is still awaiting assign­ment back to N.D. for V-7 training. 
On July 16, Tom Nash played golf for the Leo XIII Council, K. of C , team which walked off with the Illinois State title at Elmhurst C.C.. Chicago. Don Goyette was last seen sailing a boat on I<ake Winnebago, near Fond du Lac, Wis. 
Time to sign off—In the meantime, 
"If it's news—write Scoop." 
Jones Cahill. Bob DcMoss and Marray DToale are doing areo research work at Langley Field. Va. John Touslgnant is doing this same type of work in Cleveland. Bill Oehler, ex. '42, is now in the Naval Air Corps as an ensign. Pete Stewart is attending the University of Rochester medical school studying anatomy, histology, etc. He re­ports that Jack Donovan, ex. '42. is a second year student at the same school. Ensign Tom GesBcl­bracht and his bride visited the campus recently. Tom is stationed at the New Hampshire Naval Station. 
Jim O'Neal, class president. i$ now an ensign in the Navy. After duty at a Naval Station in St. Louis, Jim reported on July 15 for a two months' training course for Naval Reser\*e Officers at Dartmouth. 
Edward J. Sullivan, former football guard and imitator supreme, has entered a seminary in. New York to study for the priesthood. 
Dan Hiltgartner is taking his eight-weeks' basic training in the Army at Camp Grant. He later hopes to be assigned to officers' training school for the Finance Department or Administra­tion Division of the Air Corps. 
Joe Snllivan. sax man for the Cavaliers, was married July IS and is now living in South Bend. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
(CtontiniKd from Pass 8) 

basic faults and weaknesses, though these ronain as natural linutabons in their characters, are chastened and re­fined by the event which Lgbts up their souls and consciences with something so much greater than all thdr individna] and selfish desires. Fearfully, helplessly, but with, a great deepening joy, they share their exporioice intimatdy. And the reader, following the dramatic g^wth of their experience, is forced to feel, with them, an increasing rever­ence for the central fact in the story, the birth of the child. 
The story is told largely through the experience of the father, Eddie Nails, whose character is folly established. He is angular, loose, comparatively imiprae­tical, often very comic; he is neither heroic nor tragic; he could never fit into any great place in the world; but bis basic innocence and generosity, together with his inherited beliefs, protect him from the extremes of-his own weak­nesses. Both his faults and his virtues are very real, but he is never presented as the victim of his own weaknesses. He cannot escape his basic sense of respon­sibility as a parent uid a man. He is always aware of the real force of con­science. There is no false pathos in the treatment of his character. Anna, bis wife, is less impulsive, less impraetieal, but less generous by nature. As a diar­acter in the novel, perhaps she is less completely revealed. She is, however, very definitely established. The first child of Eddie and Anna Nails, three-and-a-half-year-old Julie, is an unusually delicate, excellent piece'of characteriza­tion. She is determined, perverse, way­ward, whimsical, innocent, and entirely delightfuL " ; ; '­
Slimmer^ after Summer is devdoped mth a severe economy of design' and a force that comes from a disci^ined unity of theme. It is not marred by the looseness and waste that commonly char­acterizes first novels. Hr. Sullivan writes with firm, mature control. He is always the master of his material, thouj^ he never exploits it for any didactic or sen­timental purpose. He has written a novel in which the significance of his charac­ters' experience — a timely significtmce which will be readily appreciated, espe­cially by the Catholic reader — is im­plicit in the integrity and beauty ot the story as he sees it. 
—(REV.) LEO L. WARD, C.S.C. 
RICH APPOINrb 

Prof. Ronrfd j: . JRich, head of the Department^^' Chemical Engineering, has been named to the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics to succeed the late Prof. William L. Benitx. 
100 yea^! A*td We.'ie, BtiU BUofUoi *fluU WO Pefuseni 
Results, Centenary Fund Drive 
(to September 15, 1942)* 
N. B. It should be borne in mind that many class representatives have not yet contacted their classmates, aiid many local Clubs have not yet conducted local contact programs. The showing by December 31, 1942, when both prt^ams have been completed, should be a highlight in Alumni support. 
-, go 
=^ 

Year Representative Amaunt Year Representative Eu Amount 
u — 1 =
Si C

il S5 
1892 James R. Fitzgibbon 9 3 .333 ^ 30.00 1918 Richard J. Dunn 61 13 .213 3,295.00 1893 George L. O'Brien 13 1 .077 25.00 1919 Clarence W. Bader 48 5 .104 1,745.00 1894 Hon. Francis A. Bolton 10 3 .333 . 30.00 1920 John T. Balfe 83 8 .097 240.00 1895 Eustace Cullinan 24 2' .083 30.00 1921 Norman C. Barry 94 11 .117 170.00 1896 Arthur Stace 14 1 .071 5.00 1922 Gerald A. Ashe 150 28 .187 343.50 1897 Rev. John A. MacNamara 10 1 .100 1,355.00 1923 John Montague 182 27 .143 300.00 1898 Hu ^ C. Mitchell 13 1 .077 10.00 1924 James P. Swift 208 24 .115 244.50 1899 Midiael J. McCormack 10 0 .000 00.00 'M925 John P. Hurley 289 32 ail 360.00 1900 J. L. Spalding Slevin 12 2 .166 105.00 1926 Victor F. Lemmer 326 29 .089 468.00 1901 Philip O'Neill 17 4 .235 45.00 1927 Joseph Boland 318 26 .082 350.00 1902 Vitus Jones 25 5 .200 370.00 1928 Robert E. Kirby 414 29 .070 234.50 1903 Jcdm H. Neeson 21 4 .190 45.00 1929 Jdin Elder 318 31 .100 257.00 1904 Byron Kanaley 34 10 .300 775.00 1930 Robert T. HeUruhg 444 51 .115 389.00 1905 William D. Jamieson 15 2 .133 105.00 1931 John F. Saunders 427 37 .085 239.00 1906 James A. Dubbs 37 4 .110 235.00 1932 NeU C. Hurley 532 36 .067 284.50 1907 Ambrose O'Connell 24 5 .210 275.00 1933 Ti^ie E. Woods 422 45 .107 253.00 1908 Frank X. Cull 33 5 .151 55.00 1934 Harvey P. Rockwell, Jr 426 39 .090 276.50 1909 John B. Kanaley 31 2 .065 15.00 1935 Dominic M. Vairo 452 31 .070 499.00 1910 Rev. Michael Moriarty 27 5 .190 130.00 1936 Francis L. Layden 443 38 .083 231.00 1911 Elmo A. Funk 67 13 .194 1,018.00 1937 Artfatu: p. Cronin, Jr. 472 27 .057 309.50 1912 Walter Duncan 44 6 .136 2,050.00 1938 B. Scott Reardon 565 42 .074 338.50 1913 Clyde Broussard 62 7 .113 640.00 1939 J. Gr^ory Rice 606 59 .096 477.75 1914 Francis H. Hayes 67 10 .150 345.00 1940 To be named 695 58 .080 2,285.50 1915 Raymond Eichenlaub 67 11 .165 120.00 ' 1941 To be named 688 69 .101 5,559.60 1916 T. P. Galvin 71 12 .170 312.00 1942 To be named 512 77 .150 748.50 
1917 Bernard J. Voll 108 10 .092 1,091.00 
TOTALS 10,040 1.001 .100 $29,114.75 
(* Results of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley campaign, with the exception of a little over a thousand dollars, are NOT included.) ­
LEHER TO NOTRE DAME MEN FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY 
•\.
Dear Friends of Notre Dame: 

Widi die advice of die University Council, I have decided to present to you, in this Notre Dame's Centenary Year, a finandal statement of all die operations of die Universi^ for the year ended Ms^ 15,1942. So far as I know, such action has never been taken before. I hc ^ that by it tumors will give way once and for all to the fatxs. 
In otdac to reduce finanrial complexities to the simplest terms, I am using a condensed ioaa prepared for me by the auditors en^lt^ed by the University, Pearson and Dwyer, certified publk acoMntants, 111 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illhiois. lliis is die statement: 
BECEIVED 

From tuitioB and shideni leei; U. S. Navy; intarMl on ganand MidewmaBl; ratnma from acholanhipa: and from oU amdliazr opwotisaa Jadodiag atUatica $8it2it557.53 
PAmODT For th* opeiotiona of all Colleges of ilio TTmromtf—Axia and I«H«n. Sei­
•aco. Law. Engineering, and Commerce (indnding mlmiiiMiaSTe and faculty aalariea. pennons); for intezhall otldeiiea. stodenl acBriHefc and publication; for operation of zeaidence halla, diniag hidla. infinnaiy. lonndrr. Rockne Memorial, golf comae, and general mwnrteiMiace 2J3M33.43 
Net Ioaa from UniTermty and auxiliary eperaliona $ 1337SJ0 
BECEIVED 

Oram miacellaneoua aouzeea. exclunve of UniTendty and aiadliaxy opatwtfaM (intareat on inreatmenta. profit from aale of aecnritiea, bod d ^ xecer­eriea. property rentala. at cetera) 344)71 J2 
Net credit to amplna (to be used for purchase of new fobeaatwy. abapi, ( room equipment additiona to librariea. for zeaeardi. gradnata depart­ments, et cetera) $ 20.I98L02 
Please note diat the entire surplus available for new equipment in laborat(»ies, shop, and classrooms; for addi­ticMial bo<^ and magazines in the General Library and in all ^ libraries of the various departments of the Univers­i^; for carrying on research projects already imdertaken; for maintaining twelve dqattments d the Graduate School, not to mention die program of social security, is a meager ^20,1!>6.02. 
These are die reasons v4y I must urgendy ^peal to die alumm, to old students, and to all loyal friends of Notre Dame for speaal donations in this her Centenary Year tmd for further gifts in subsequent years. IF Notre Dame is to go ahead, in fact if Notre Dame is going to hold her own, it is obvious that the University must have more endow­ment income quiddy. 
I have been inframed that the alunmi of Jdms Hopkins are now conducting a campaign for ^2,000,000 to mnW tq> die ^wnyal defidt in operation caused by the war; that Holy Cross alumni have ^ven mote dian ^(300,000 to Holy Ccoss Collie, of Worcester, on its Centenary Year; that Fotdham alumni have already raised cme^ialf mil­lion doiUats and have a goal of ^1^60,000 in Fordham's Centenary Year. 
This is Notre Dame's Centenary. I am fully confident that you Notre Dame men will not be outdone in loy­alty and devotion by any other group in America. You are proud dl what Notre Dame has acconqJished; die oppor­tunities for further growdi are diaUenging indeed to every son <^ Alma Mater. 
In die name of die greater Notre Dame of the future, and entirely mindful of the personal and family obli­gations that may rest upon each one of you, I a[^)eal for assistance at oooe. 
Yours very stnoerefy. 

President 





