The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 33, No. 
May-June, 1955 
James E. Armstrong, '23 Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37 Managing Editor 
(above) Harry J. Krimm, '28 (left), vice-president of Willianisport ND Club, awards Alan of the Year scroll to William R. Downs, '10. Thomas E. Vargo (center), coach of Williainsport High School, was speaker. 
(right) Admiral Daniel Gallery and Rev. Harold Riley, C.S.C., ad­dressed Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago at Universal Notre Dame Night obser\'ance. Joseph McCabe was elected president succeeding John O'Shaughnessy. 
Class Reunion Weekend on June 10, 11, 12— page 2 
•'^%" 
i^i 
i: •-.« f>,'^-t 
Football Ticket Distribution for Alumni—by Robert Cahill iSSI page 7 .J^'i 
ALL OF THIS FOR ^20 


Class Reunion Weekend 
June 10-1 
Class of  1905  Howard  Hall  Class of  1930  Lyons Hall  
Class of  1910  Howard  Hall  Class of  1935  Morrissey  Hall  
Class of  1915  Howard  Hall  Class of  1940  Morrissey Hall  
Class of  1920  Howard  Hall  Class of  1945  Badin  Hall  
Class of  1925  Sorin  Hall  Class of  1950  Badin  Hall  

Friday, June 10 
General Registration—^Law Building. One fee, $20, will be collected at registration which will cover all of the general and class expenditures. 
Class Registration and Room—registration will be in the halls as listed above. 
Weekend golf tournament beginning Friday. 
Class events scheduled on Friday night. 1905—Informal class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1910—Class supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1915—Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1920—Buffet supper, Morris Inn, Golfers Lounge. 1925—Evening buffet, O'Shaughnessy Hall Lounge. 1930—^Twenty-five Year Silver Jubilee Reunion Dinner, Morris Inn. 1935—^Dinner, Rockne Memorial Lounge. 1940—Buffet, Lay Faculty Dining Hall. 1945—Class dinner. Dining Hall. 1950—Reunion supper, place to be announced. 
Saturday, June I I 
Class Masses, Class Pictures (Election of Class Officers for ensuing 5 years can be held on Friday night, or on Saturday, as Class wishes.) Golf Tournament, all day. President's Luncheon for the 25-year Class, Lay Faculty Dining Room, Dining Halls. Box lunches for all other reunion classes Saturday afternoon. Progress Forums in the five Colleges of Arts and Letters, Science, Engi­neering, Law and Commerce, Saturday afternoon. Tours—I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine'Arts Building, Nieuwiand Science Hall, LaFortune Student Center, Saturday afternoon. Movies, Washington Hall, Saturday afternoon. Annual Alumni Banquet—University Dining Halls, Saturday Night. 
Sunday, June 12 
Low Mass, Sacred Heart Church, with a Sermon for Notre Dame Men. 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
James G. McGoldrick, '39 Honorar>' President Dr. Leo D. 0'Donnell,'17 President Daniel Culhane, '23 First Vice-President John F. Saunders, '31 Second Vice-President John E. McIntjTc, '31 
— Third Vice-President 
James E. .'\rmstrong, '25 Director and SecretaRJ 
Directors to 1956 
Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17 5121 Ellsworth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. Daniel Culhane, '23 130 E. Bradley Lane, Chevy Chase, Md. John F. Saunders, '31 Handschumacker and Company, 48 North St., Boston, Mass. Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. B. Toomey, '26 261 E. Onondac^a, Sycrause, N. Y. 
Directors to 1937 
John E. Mclntvre, '31 "^ 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. James L. Ferstel, '48 .... 5238 N. Winthrop Ave., Chicago, 111. Robert H. Gore, Tr., '31 4901 Ocean Dr., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Joseph I. O'Neill. Jr., '37 ....209 N. Big Spring St., Midland, Te.xas 
Directors to 1958 
John W. Brennan, '27 .... -American Blower Corp., Detroit Mich. 
J. Patrick Cannv, '28 ....14700 Clifton Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio Patrick J. Fisher, '36 "^ 605 E. 42nd St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Joseph E. Whalen, '29 —Hotel Ft. Des Moines, Des Moines, la. 
Chairmen 1955 Committees 
Dr. Leo. D. O'Donnell  Executive  
John F. Saunders  Class Activities  
Daniel Culhane  Club Activities  
Msgr. Joseph B. Toomey  

Prestige and Public Relations John E. Mclntyre 
Foundation, .\lumni Fund and Gifts John F. Saunders Inter-Alumrji James L. Ferstel .... Religion and Citzenship Joseph I. O'Neill Resolutions James L. Ferstel 
Preparator>- School Relations Joseph I. O'Neill 
Job Counseling and Placement John F. Saunders Budget and Finance Daniel Culhane Nominating 
Tills magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre. Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Fostodice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. ^ 

Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 

MUSKEGON—Professor James A. Reyniers, director of LOBUND Institute at Notre Dame, was principal speaker at the club's UND Night celebration. Other guests from left to right arc: R. L. Mason, Co-Ch.; George E. Ludmg; Msgr. W. E. Eraser; Mrs. Price; Club President J. M. Price; Mrs. August; Dr. Ralph V. August, scholarship committee chairman. 
COLUMBUS—Club President John Murphy (R) presents Man of the Year citation to Leo J. Kletzly. 

EVANSVILLE—Ralph Heger (L) receives Man of the Year award from Ed Kempf. 



NUfkt—1955 
The ND Club of Chicago awarded post­humously its Man of the Year honor to Fred Suite, Jr., '32. The award ^vas ac­cepted by Terence DiUon, '32, Fred's brother-in-law, and was presented by Frank Milligan, '47, first vice-president (R). 

SCHENECTADY—Man of the Year award is received by the Very Rev. John J. Finn, 
j > Others (left to right) arc: Father John Walsh, C.S.C., guest speaker from the campus. Club Prcs. Dr. John B. Phillips, and John Afechan, award chairman. 
•i Noire Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 



100 Alumni Clubs Meet on UND Night 
26 Guest Speakers From University 
The 32nd annual Universal Notre Dame Night, according to reports still being received from alumni clubs, was imdoubtedly the "greatest yet" in local alumni club histor)'. Sixty-seven clubs were represented by faculty, athletic and administrative personnel from the University as well as members of the Alumni Association Board of Directors. As this issue goes to press, it is appar­ent that a minimum of 100 clubs en­joyed UND Night observances. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesbutgh, C.S.C, president, spoke in Indianapolis, Mex­ico City, PhoenLx, AVashington, D. C , Dallas, Houston and the Calumet Dis­trict. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, executive xdce-president, met with the New York City Club. Otiier speakers included Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C, vicee-president in charge of student af­fairs. Rev.'John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C,­director of the Notre Dame Founda­tion, Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, 
placement director. Rev. James P. Doll, CS.C, Rev, John Walsh, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas Brennan, Sr.', C.S.C, Rev. Jo­seph Barr>', C.S.C, Rev. Harold Riley, CS.C, Dr. Leo O'Donnell, Pittsburgh, Pa., president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, Joseph I. O'Neill, Midland, Texas, member of the Alum­
ni Association Board of Directors, foot­ball coaches Terry Brennan and Bill Earley, basketball coach John Jordan and director of athletics Ed Krause. Faculty rnembers: Dean Lawrence Baldinger of the College of Science, Dean James E. McCarthy of the Col­lege of Commerce, Robert Ervin, Ed­mund A. Smith and James A. Rejoiiers. Otliers from administrative depart­ments in the University were: Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong, Richard Bowes, James E. Murphy, TV station manager Bernard Barth and John Cackley. 

Dr. John C. Treacy, '45 Killed in Campus Blast 
The cause of the blast that took the life of Dr. John C Treacy, '45, Assist­ant Professor of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame, on March 31 while he was conducting an experiment in a rocket fuel mixture, may never be known, according to administration of­ficials. The explosion which sent a shrapnel-like piece of metal flying into Dr. Treacy's neck, wrecked a concrete block rocket test cell located near the Aeronautical Engineering Build­ing on campus. Four students who were with him at the time of the blast escaped injuiy. The students were do­ing rocket fuel research needed for their senior thesis assignments. 
Dr. Treacy was standing about 30 feet northeast of the building when the explosion occurred. Professor Ronald 
E. Rich, '28, head of the University's Department of Chemical Engineering, said the details of the blast are vague and "it was one of those things, the rea'' son for which we shall probably never be able to determine." Professor Rich said similar experiments in the test cell had caused only "minor flare-ups" and no previous explosion. 
Dr. Treacy, a specialist in the chem­ical study of fuels, was given the last rites of the Catholic Church by Rev. Charies E. Sheedy, C.S.C, Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, who ar­rived at the accident several minutes after it had happened. John Treac)^ was graduated from Notre Dame in 1945 and earned his master's degree in 1947. He received a Doctor of Philoso­phy degree in Chemistry from the Uni­versity of Wisconsin in 1950 and joined the Notre Dame faculty that same year. Dr. Treacy was a lieutenant (j. g.) in the Naval Reserve and was a native of Danville, 111. 
He is survived by his widow. Mar)' Ann, and three children, Eileen, Kath­leen and Michael, and lib mother, Mrsf Mary Treacy. Funeral services were held in Holy Cross Catholic Church in South Bend. 
.MEMO TO CLUB OFFICERS. UND NIGHT CHAIRMEN: 

The Alumni Office is sincerely grateful for copy and photos covering Univeisal Notre Dame Night witinties. Because of time and space factors much of this material could not be used, in the current issue but will be printed in the next ALUMNUS 
(scheduled for a press run in June). John Cacklri'.
GREEN BAY—Tom Hcarden, (R) chairman of the aw-ard committee presents Man of the 
Year scroll to Levi Geniesse while Club President William Kerwin (center) looks on. 
Xotre Dame Atumnui, May~June, 1953 
Alumi 

lumni Secretary 

Where is your diploma? Well, it really doesn't matter too much. 
What mattei-s is actually the where­abouts of what the diploma stands for —your education. 
Did you frame it, or pack it away, or rtose it, like your parchment testimonial? 
Tiiis is an era which demands moral responsible leadership. That is a hard-worked phrase. And it will be heard again, many times, before it achieves its end. 
Your education, in whatever period of Notre Dame's histoiy you received it, was never intended to stamp you "Finished" on graduation day. Trite as it may be, that is actually why they call it "Commencement." 
.-() But what have you—and that in­cludes all ol us—done, to continue your intellectual and cultural development? 
Professionally, you have unquestion­ably developed. And that is not easy 
•in these days of rapid progress in all professions. 
Discussion Group 
A family is not without its diverting nature in the seeking for time to study and reflect. 
Demands of organization affiliations —yes, like Alumni Clubs and the Foun­dation—take their toll of the rigid 24­hour day 7-day week. 
And on Sunday most of us hear a sermon that does add an indelible line or two to our knowledge and under­standing of God and His creatures. So we relax. 
But the modem world is clamoring for men of broad backgroimd, men trained in the humanities—as if- they did not exist. They exist—you are one nf them. But they certainly need to be activated. Passive possession of this vital commodity is a kind of intellec­tual treason in our present cliaos. 
\Vhat to do about it? The Alumni Association, with the cooperation of the Univereity is going to tell you, we hope and plan, but not until, we can say, 
."This is the way we have found it can actually be done." We intend to launch a pilot discussion group, stafT members f ^nd wives in the Alumni-Foundation 
Office, to take some of the great issues of the day and apply oiu" background training through special readings, to their study. That is the only hope of ultimate solution. Not our group, not your group, but a lot of us, thinking right in this world about clearly defined . problems. 
W's do not underestimate the large number of alumni who have been con­tributing valuable leadership to reli­gious, fraternal and civic groups. THere is evidence of great participation in philanthropic works. Some are in Great Books, etc. 
A Case History 
But most of these things drain the background of alumni, without re­freshing, replacing, or adding new stature. 
So while we are working on a case history, will you join us in thinking of methods for advancing your interest in philosophy, in literature, in sociology, in politics, in music and art. And be thinking of people who would like to share your interests and your stimulus. 
This will not be, we hope and plan, a night out for squares. 
This ought to be a memorable; in­expensive yet richly productive, night out for those who can dig from the mines of the past and the surface veins of the present the fundamental raw materials of a sound future. 
It may shock your wife and your neighbors if you spring something like this on them suddenly. On the other' hand, their eagerness to listen to some­thing besides commercials and sports may shock you. Use the weeks ahead to unearth this hidden hope. 
If you deliberately burned your li­brary, or threw your wallet over the bridge wall, modest as either may be, someone would call either a policeman or a psychiatrist. Then who do you think is ringing that doorbell if you keep the hope of our future — your trained mind — in an unguarded .state of mental disarmament? Volunteer, and lead — or wait and be drafted. But get that brain in shape! 
—Jim Armstrong 
TERRY BRENNAN 





Jaycees Select Top Ten Men of 1954 
Coach Terry Brennan was chosen as one of the Ten Outstanding Young Men of 1954 by the U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce. Others include Eobert F. Kennedy, Boston, Mass., Chief Counsel of the Senate Subcommittee on Investi­gations; Major Charles E. Yeager, Ham­lin, W. Va., air force test pilot; Hamil­ton F. Richardson, Baton Rouge, La., Davis Cup tennis player; Dr. Wendell Phillips, Concord, Calif., explorer; Dr. William A. Spencer, Houston, Texas, polio research physician; Frank A. Rose, Lexington, Ky., college president; Ernest F. HoUings, Charleston, S. C, Lt.-Gov. of South Carolina; J. Herbert HoUoman, Schenectady, N. Y., research metallurgist; and Arthur M.' Kraft, Kansas City, Mo., artist and- sculptor. The ten men were selected by a board of nationally-prominent judges. 
Jheatre Conference S\ated For Campus 
The tenth biennial convention of the Catholic Theatre Conference will be held at the University of Notre Dame June 12-15. 
More than 1,500 teachers, directors and students of the drama from Catho­lic high schools and colleges through­out the country are e.xpected to attend the sessions. Community theatres and children's dramatic groups with Cath­olic affiliations also will be represented at the campus meeting. 
According to Sister M. Angelita, B.V.M., of Davenport, la., convention chairman, the convention will devote special attention to the art and moral­ity of the theatre, choral speaking, and teacher training. 
Notre Damt Alumnus, May-]unf, 1955 

Top left: Included at 'celebrities table" while Terry Brennan speaks arc Maureen Connolly, Wimbledon and U. S. Xational tennis champ; former X'D grid leader Jim Mutscheller; Skeets Quintan and Tom Dahnis, of the Los Angeles Rams; and Eddie Erautt. San Dieso I'adre pitcher. Top risht: Terry was honored at alumni luncheon prior to .Appreciation Banquet. Center (left to right): Msgr. Francis Ott. chaplain; G. R. Bill, new club president; Father John .\herne, O.S..\.; Terry Brcnnan; Jack McCIarcn, relirins president; and Jerry Mc-^ Carthy. treasurer. Lower right: Father .Vhcrne, principal of St. .Vuguitinc H. S., explains purpose of testimonial. The XD .Muiimi Club 
and .St. .Vugustine High School co-sponsored the affair. Lower left (left to right): Banquet 
Glaab; Jim Mutscheller; and Griff Hayes. 



San Diego Alumni Stage Appreciation Banquet 
Many of .-Viiu'iica's .s|jai'ls elite were OH liaiid as None Dame's Teriy Bieii­iiaii acldiessed 600 jjersoiis al an "A])­pretialion Niglil" banquet in .San Di­ego. Calif., honoring all the coache.s and adininisiiatois of San Diego Coun­tv'.s ])iivaie and ])ublic higli schools, 'the Xolre Dame .Muinni Club and .Si. .Augustine's High School of the .Soulhwesi's "Gateway Cily" co-spon­soied llic testimonial. 

Tennis star Mauieen ('"Little Mo") Connolly, fonner Irish giid captain Jim Mutsclielier, '.51, and prominent figures from major league baseball and |)rofessional football, togetlicr with 
6 .V(»/rf Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1953 

more than 100 coaches and 40 ad­ministtators, heard Brennan ajjplaud the county's educators at an event be­lieved to be the first of its kind held in San Diego County and jjossibly in .Southern California. 
In his ;51-hour visit to the Califor­nia cily Brennan was the luncheon guest of the Notre Dame Club, was inter\-iewed by four newspa|jers, made three TV appearances and one radio broadcast, and concluded with a talk to the St. Augustine student body. 
The success of the 1955 e\-ent lias encouraged officials of the Notre Dame Club and St. .-Vusrustine's High  chairman John Sullivan: Brennan; John 
JACK .McCLARE.X SAYS — 
"The benefits to the Xolre Dame Cluli 
of San Diego from this event are immeas­
urable," asserted Club President John J. 
McClaren, '29, following the banquet. 
"Individually it w:is a fine opportunity for the alumni to renew or make ac­quaintance with Coach Brennan. The club's stature in the community has been greatly enhanced by being associated with a successful \'eniure o( tliis caliber. .\nd we believe Coach Brennan"s fine impression on all who saw or heard him at tlie banquet, or on one of liis radio and television appearances, has given this community a better perspective on the University itself. 
"We think we may have stumbled onto something which could be useful to other alumni clubs to improve connnunity pub­lic relations.'" 

School to initiate steps to make the^ testimonial an annual aflair. 
.August 1 and the Ticket Committee 
will be pleased to send general public forms to anyone you designate so long 
3955 Alumni Ticket as tickets are available. 
5. Ticket Locations: Notre Dame now has a total alumni membership of 


Distribution Policy 
more than 22,000, about 12,000 of 
M its Januaiy meeting, your .-\lumni Hoard voted for continuance of the ticket distribiuion jDolicy in effect for the ])ast several years. l?y now. most alumni are fairly well acciuainted with it, but for the thousand or more new members added since last year, and for some of the newly awakened members (particularly in the Florida area) we'll reiterate alumni |)rivileges — and re­.slrictions—as the 19.1.T schedide dic­tates. 
1.
 Contributors to the Twelfth -An­nual .Alumni Fund in 1954 (please note this year-ahead reciuireinent—a 195.T contribution qualifies you for 19,56— NOT 1955), plus religious and hon­orary degree members, are eligible for .Advance Sale order forms for 1955. Exception will be made for 1955 grad­uates of January and Jime, who will receive autoiuatically .Advance Sale fonns in their first year as alumni. Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20. 'closes July 15. 

2.
 .Advance .Sale order forms are good for TWO tickets per game, are not transferable, and will be honored imtil the ticket supply is exhausted or at the latest imtil July 15. .At this writing (.April i. tlic onh- restriction on the .AcKance forms will be for the Michigan State game. .Application blanks {or that game will be sent only to contributing alumni residing in the Vicinity of East Lansing. .Almuni out­side the area who desire to order State tickets for their personal use (there will be no public sale for this game) should apply by letter and enclosure check to the Football Ticket Commit­tee. .At the close of .Advance .Sale. July 


15. these requests will be honored if sufficient tickets remain. 
3. If an alumnus needs more than two tickets for games other than Mich­igan State, he must do one of two 
bv ROBERT C.\HILL. '34. Ticket Manasjer 
things: (a) Utilize his .Alumni .Ad­vance form for two preferred tickets and order additional seats via the Gen­eral Use form which will arrive (for most games—no Michigan State, and maybe no Miami or Navy) the latter part of July: or, (b i if he requires that his total order be adjacent seats, he MUST waive use of his .Advance form and order all his tickets on the General Use a]jplication. .Advance orders which ignore the two-limit will be returned. 
4. General Use application blanks for most games will be sent to .ALL alumni the latter part of July. It is already definite that oiu" ticket supply will peniu't no general order fonii for Michigan State. .Also, the Miami and Navy games may be limited to Ad­\ance Sale only: or perhaps limited to geographic areas if a general sale is jjossible at all. This can be determined only b)- extent of .Advance Sale. The general sale form may be used by the contributing alumnus who requires mort: than two adjacent seats. It car­ries no priority and is good only after the .Alunmi .Advance Sale closes, July 
15. It is transferable and will be hon­ored for tickets not claimed dining .Advance Sale. General Sale opens 
1955 .SCHEDULE .AND PRICFii 

Scpt.24—SMU at XD S4.80 Oct. I—Indiana at ND $4.80 Oct. 7—Miami at Miami, Fla. (night 
same) S5.00 Oct. 15—Michisan State at Lansin? 
.S3.60 Oct. 22—Purdue at Lafayette .$3.60 Oct. 29—Navy at ND $4.80 Nov. 5—Pcnn at Philadelphia $5.25 Nov. 12—N. Carolina at Chapel Hill 
$4.50 Nov. 19—Iowa at ND $4.80 Nov. 26—So. California at Los Anseles 
$5.00 

whom are eligible for Advance Sale privilege. There are 4,000 seats in our stadium (usually less away from liome) available to alumni between the 50­yard line and the goal line. Of these, only 1,600 are in the area between the 35 and 50. More than 1,000 orders will arrive on the first morning of the first day of sale for nearly all of the games; and for Navy, for example, there will be three or four thousand orders, thus accounting for all of the preferred seats in the first day of sale! 
6. Alumni Clubs interested in group orders should notify the Ticket Committee by June 20 for tentative reseivations. .Accommodation of group orders depends entirely on demand from individual alumni and no defi­nite assurance can be given until indi­vidual sale closes July 15. And tve zvish to make it clear once more-—seats available to Club or any other group orders can be' only the least desirable of our allotment, or what is left after filliiig individual orders. Generally speaking, group orders for games away from home are impracticable because of our relativelv small ticket allotment. 
Jones to Head College Group 
Herb Jones, business manager of athletics at Notre Dame, has been elected president of the national Col­lege .Athletic Business Managers .A.sso­ciation, succeeding Lester Jordan of Southern Methodist. 
Since 1940, details of the business end of Notre Dame athletics have been handled by Herb Jones. He has con­cerned himself with business and ticket affairs at the University since the Knute Rockne era. 
One of the most respected and well-liked men in collegiate athletics. Herb is in charge of the business and ticket offices at Notre Dame. His job in­cludes purchasing athletic equipment, arranging trips of all Irish athletic teams, and handling athletic accounts. 
Notre Dame .-itumnus, .May-Junr, 1955 

^B^'«l^ 
N. D. to Offer Summer Course in Mexico 
In order to contrihute to "better inter-American understanding, the University of Notre Dame will give her students an opportunity to study the language, literature, civilization, and culture of Spain and Spanish America this summer in Mexico City. 
Students may register for one or more of three five-week sessions: June 13 to July 16, July 18 to August 20, and August 22 to September 24. The tuition and fees will he approxi­mately $55 for each session. Housing will he available in private homes approved hy Mexico City College. 

Gen. Kenney Lashes Coexistence Myth 
A- warning against "the siren song of peaceful coexistence" and the futility of negotiating with Red Russia was sounded here Feb 22 hy retired air force general George C. Kenney. Kenney, who commanded the al­lied air forces in the Pacific during World War II, addressed the 106th an­nual Washington's Birthday exercises of Notre Dame's senior Class. 
A highlight of the convocation was the presentation of the seniors' second annual "Patriot of the Year Award" to Bishop Fulton J. Sheen. The New York prelate, was cited "for mag­nificently combatting every enemy of our national existence and national morality" and "for tirelessly extend­ing over the world the enlightenment, the charity and the compassion of our God and our Country." 

Rep. Bentley Talks on Red Slavery 
Four foreign affairs specialists participated in a symposiom on "The Fate of East Central Europe: Hopes and Failures of American Foreign Policy" at Notre Dame. 
Speakers were Representative Alvin 
M. Bentley of Michigan; Professor Philip E. Mosely of Columbia Uni­versity. Robert F. Byrnes, director 
^otre Daim Alumnut, May-June, 1955 

of research at the Mid-European Studies Center. New York City; and 
Nicholas  Spulber  of  Indiana  Uni­ 
versity.  
The  symposium  was  sponsored  by  

Notre Dame's Center for Soviet and East European Studies and the Uni­versity's Committee on International Relations. Dr. Stephen Kertesz, pro­fessor of political science at Notre Dame and former Hungarian minister to Italy, presided. 


Pollitt Heads Correctional Program 
Robert E. Pollitt has been ap­pointed director of Notre Dame's Cor­rectional Administration Program and will assume the position Sept. 1. 
Pollitt has been a case consultant with the Wisconsin Department of Public Welfare at Milwaiikee since 1949, and supervisor of the Bureau of Probation and Parole since 1955. 
Notre Dame's correctional admini­stration program was established in 1947, and since then 65 have earned master's degrees under it. They are now with federal and state probation, parole, and penal systems throughout the country. 

Over 100 Colleges Represented at Parley 
Deans of more than one-hundred Catholic liberal arts colleges dis­cussed curriculum problems at a confer­ence at the University of Notre Dame, March 2-3-4. "Christian Culture and Catholic Liberal Education" was the conference theme. 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.. president of Notre Dame, was the host to the group and addressed the opening session. Speakers were the Rev. Joseph M. Marique, S.J., of Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass.; the Rev. JaTies Campbell, the Catholic University of America; 0. W. Perlmut­ter, St. Xavier College for ViFomen, Chicago, 111.; the Rev. Paul O'Con­nor, S.J., St. Xavier- University, Cincinnati; and the Rev. George Gar­
^imPUf:. 
t V";-Mlll<lll"f,, I ii',«=;«ij»<;;iJ; 

relts, Newman Cluh chaplain. Uni­
versity of Minnesota, and the Rev. 
Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., of Notre Dame 
addressed the conference hanquet 
March 3. 

An article, "Christian Culture in 
General Education," hy the Rev. W. F. 
Cunningham, C.S.C.,, of Notre Dame, 
which appeared in the April 16 issue 
of America, national Catholic weekly 
review,"was distrihuted to the dele­
gates at the deans' parley. Father 
'Cunningham is taking a leading part 
in the revamping of liberal arts cur­
riculum in Catholic colleges. 

Wives Need Appreciation, Seniors Told 
The three basic needs of every 
v/oman are "acceptance, appreciation, 
and affection." This was emphasized 
by Mrs. Frank O'Dowd, a young Chi­
cago housewife and the mother of five, 
v/ho spoke Feb. 23 to Notre Dame 
seniors at the University's 1955 Mar­
riage Institute. 

Mrs. O'Dowd and her husband, a 
Notre Dame Alumnus, both leaders in 
the Christian family movement and 
Cana Conference activities in Chi­
cago, were speakers at the first of 
seven weekly Marriage Institute ses­
sions, which drew more than 800 Notre 
Dame seniors and graduate students. 

Scholarship in Medieval Studies 
A graduate scholarship at Notre 
Dame's Medieval Institute will be 
awarded to a qualified student for the 
1955-56 academic year. 

The scholarship, v;hich provides §620 tuition and a §980 stipend, will be given to a young man studying for the master's degree or doctorate in medieval studies and who reveals a specific interest in the Christian culture of the Middle Ages. A read­ing knowledge of Latin and either French or German is also a reauisite. 

Fr. Hesburgh Lauds Miller in CBS Talk 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. in a nation-wide radio ser­mon paid tribute to the late Fred C. Miller of Milwaukee, millionaire brewer, one of Notre Dame's more prominent alumni, and captain of Rockne's 1928 grid team. Father Hes­burgh spoke Jan. 30 on the Columbia network's Church of the Air program. 
Miller and his son, Fred, Jr., a junior at Notre Dame, were killed in a plane crash shortly before Christmas. 
In his sermon, entitled "Notre Dame Men—Father and Son," Father Hesburgh noted that both of the Mil­lers on the morning of their deaths 
had received Communion, the father in his parish church, the son in Ms. hall chapel on the Notre Dame campus." He emphasized that, from the "eternal point of view," wealth, health, bril­liance, or high position are.really not important "when your last day on earth begins." "Our final day," he pointed out, "will probably reflect the values we hold today, the strength of our character today. ..." These will decide "the kind of eternity that awaits us," he concluded. 

Union Carbide Scholarships 
University of Notre Dame students 
who show a particular interest aind 
exceptional promise in research will 
be eligible for full four-year 
scholarships provided by the Union 
Carbide Educational Fund beginning 
next September. Two members of the 
current freshman class will receive 
scholarships as well as two freshmen 
enrolling in September. A pair of 
scholarships will be awarded each year 
thereafter so that a total of eight 
Union Carbide Scholarships will be in 
effect at Notre Dame eventually. 

N.D. Men See U.S. Government at Work 
Thirty students from the Uni­versity of Notre Dame and nearby St. Mary's College took a "between the semesters" tour of Washington, D.C. Guided by Dr. Paul Bartholomew of Notre Dame's political science de­partment, the students saw their government in action and visited many historical landmarks during their five-and-a-half days in the nation's capital and vicinity. 
AjDong the highlights of the four­
teenth annual trip was a visit to the 
White House and attendance at ses­
sions of the Senate, House and Supreme 
Court. 

During one evening of their Wash­ington visit the students were guests at the home of Walter Trohan, chief of the Chicago Tribune's Washington bureau and a Notre Dame alumnus. 

Vocation Institute at N.D. July 14-17 
"The Family and Religious Voca­tions" will be the theme of the ninth annual Vocation Institute to be held at the University of Notre Dame July­14-17. The Rev. John J. Doherty. C.S.C, vocation director for the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province, will head the institute. 
The Institute will treat methods of educating parents so that they may prudently encourage vocations to the-priesthood and religious life in their children. 
NotTt Dame Alumnus, Maj/'ftine, 1955 
DR. JOSE CAPARO 


A Tribute to the Late Doctor Jose A. Caparo, Alumnus and Professor 
Jose Angel Caparo, the only child of a prominent Peruvian family, arrived at the Universit}' of Notre Dame in May, 1904, when he was 15 years of age. Three montlis previously he had left his home in mountainous Cuzco, Peru. He used a burro and Indian guides and later a stage coach to travel 400 miles to the port of Mollendo. This three weeks of travel was followed by a ship passage via Cape Horn to New York, and hence to Notre Dame. 
In July, 1953, Dr. and Mrs. Caparo returned to Peru for a visit. During their stay of six months he was hon­ored by numerous groups. The City Council of Cuzco called a special ses­sion to pay tribute to him. A similar convocation was held at die National University of Cuzco. The Notre Dame Club of Lima feted him. The press was generous in its coverage of the re­turn of this illustrious son. 
Wrote Historical Novel 
A surprising number of times, on board ship and otherwise, people who were reading or had read his historical novel "Desire for Gold and Conquest" (Christopher Press, Boston, 1953) ex­pressed to him their high regard for the story he: had compiled, translated _ and edited of the empire of the Incas and the life; of Francisco Pizarro. . 
The Caparos timed their return to Notre Dame last spring to be back for Holy ^Veek services in Sacred Heart Church. Dr. Caparo had attended these services 47 times—the last forty were consecutive. In 1919 he traveled from Pittsburgh to be present. 
On the occasion of his funeral in mid-July, Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C.S.C., said, in part, of him from the altar railing of that church, "We are paj-ing a final tribute today to Dr. Caparo who is really a part of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. . . . He saw the foundation laid for the present No­tre Dame, in fact we consider him as one of the cornerstones, indeed he is one of the pillars of the institution." 
Father Schumacher was Director of Studies at Notre Dame when Jose Caparo entered. He saw him fulfill the future predicted for him by Prof. Ed­ward Maurus and others who taught him as an undeigraduate cixil engi­neer. Caparo continued with his aca­demic studies to obtain the B.S.C.E., B.S.M.E., M.S.E.E., Ph.D., D.Sc. and 
M.A. degrees. He taught at Notre Dame for 33 years. He was Head of the Department of Electrical Engineer­ing from 1919 to 1939. He continued as professor until, for reasons of healtli, he retired in 1946 to become Professor Emeritus. He was a Fellow of the 
A.I.E.E. He is one of two Indiana people listed in the International Blue Book. In 1921 he married Elizabeth Kocsis; she and sons Edward, '47, and Joseph, '44, live in South Bend. 
This quiet man, small in stature, this brilliant mathematician possessed a Christian humility and devotion to No­tre Dame and to his students to surpass his recognized excellence in knowledge and wisdom. His associates and the hundreds of Notre Dame students blessed with the privilege of having had his instruction and his example match their unquestioned admiration of his mind with a feeling of personal affection for this kind, generous, gra­cious man, for this gentleman. 
—Larry Stauder, '29 


AHENTION Former Commerce Forum Members 
Tlie 25th Anniversar}' Celebration of the Commerce Forum will be held on Thursday, June 9, in the Morris Inn on Campus. If you are able to attend, kindly contact Michael Kelly, 223 Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MR. ^^EA^fY 


AFL LEADER MEANY LAETARE MEDALIST , 
George Meany, president of the American Federation of Labor, has been named recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal for 1955. The Univer­sity has made the award annually since 1883 to an outstanding American Cath­olic lajTnan. Meany, who is slated to head the labor organization resulting from the impending mei^er of the AFL and CIO, is the first labor leader to re­ceive tlie award. ^ 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president, in announcing the selection of the veteran union official, said: 
A Labor Statesman 
"For more than twenty years in which he has e-xercised local, state and national leadership, George Meany has exemplified the ability and integrity of a labor statesman. He has opposed those who would debauch the dignity of the working man. AVith equal vigor he has combatted those who would sub­vert America's free enterprise system. His substantial contributions to the ^^'elfare of n-orkci-s, to tlie orderly de­velopment of trade unionism, and to the fostering of concord among em­ployers and unions, while at the same time remaining steadfast in the tenets of his Faith, have prompted the Uni­versity of Hoirt Dame to confer upon him the highest honor within its power to bestow on a Catholic lajTnan." 
10 Notre Dame Alumnutt May-June, 1955­
Members of the Clackamas County SherilTs Posse include, left to right: Paul Newman, Notre Dame student; Paul's father, Harrj- \V.; and Barney MacNab, '25. 
Clackamas County Posse 
A Notre Dame Alumnus and a 

Notre Dame senior and his father are 
members of the famed "Clackamas 
County Sheriff's Posse" of the Port­
land, Ore., area—a stellar mounted 
drill team given national prominence 
by a recent feature in National Horse­
man magazine. 
They are L. B. "Barney" MacNab, '25, Harry W. Newman, and New­' man's son, an ND student. 
"Mounted drill teams are ver}' pop­

ular at present both with audiences and with the hoRemen who take pait," noted Margaret Taylor in the Horseman. "Each has something to offer the public a little different or better than the group last seen—thus when one group comes along that seems to be in a class by itself—there must be a good cause. That the Clackamas County Sheriffs Posse is '^such a group is immediately apparent 
by the audience response it receives, its invitations to show and the show performance—one of the most out­standing examples of team work seen anj-where." 
Chariot to Teach At Notre Dame Under New Professorial Program 
Jean Chariot, internationally known 

for his painting of frescos, will teach in 
the University of Notre Dame's art de­
partment during the 1955 summer ses­
sion, it was announced recently by Rev, 
Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, vice president 
for academic affairs. Chariot is one 
of several artists and scholars joining 
the Notre Dame faculty under the Dis­
tinguished Professors Program. :"• A native Parisian, Chariot has been 
teaching art during the past five years at the University of Hawaii. He held a Guggenheim Fellowship from 1945 to 
1947 and was Ryerson Lecturer at Yale University in 1948. Grinnell Col­lege awarded him an honorary Doctor of Fine Arts degree in 1946. At various times he has taught at Iowa Univer­sity, the University of California, Co­lumbia University, the University of Georgia, Smith College, Black Moun­tain College and the Colorado Springs Fine Arts School. 
New Morris Inn Policy— 
Memo From Mr. Lysak 

The ninety-two rooms of the Mor­tis Inn are more than sufficient throughout the year, but how differ­ent the situation is on football week ends! During the past three football seasons, we have been deluged with requests for room reservations and have been able to care for only a handful each game. This is due to the fact that the University is forced to use practically all rooms for its official guests including, among others, the Tnistees of the Univer­sity; the members of the various Ad­visory Councils of our different col­leges (at least one Advisory Council meets each football week end); and officials of the opposing university. 
In trying to distribute the few re­

maining rooms, if any, among the 
thousands of applicants, we have 
succeeded only in disappointing the 
hopes of a large number and incur­
ring the wrath of some. Consequent­
ly, the University has decided to 
haae no public sale of rooms at the 
Morris Inn on football week ends. 
By advising our Alumni and friends immediately of the impossibility of caring for them at the Inn, we trust this will enable them to obtain rooms at one of the South Bend hotels. 
AVe are counting on your s>Tnpa­

thetic understanding of our problem 
and your generous acceptance of this 
new policy. 
Be assured, we shall be happy to 

receive you in the Inn at almost any 
other time of the year. 
Sincerely yours, 
ARMAND E. LYSAK, Manaster 
Notre Dame Alumnuit May-June, 2955 II 





Spring Football Drills 
Brennan Testing New Combinations; Practice Game Scheduled for May 14 
Three returning regulars and a host 
of "///'—this summed up Irish grid 
prospects for 1955 as Teriy Brennan 
on ]\Iarch 29 opened spring drills for 
the University of Notre Dame's 67th 
grid campaign. Over the years the 
Irish have amassed 424 wins against 86 
losses and 34 draws. 

The regulars are injined Senior Left Guard and captain, Ray Lemek, Senior Fullback Don Schaefer, and Junior Right Half Jim Morse. .Among tlie "ijs" are the banged-up knees of Cap­tain Lemek {hurt in the 1954 South-era Cal game) and Gene Kapish (a monogram-winner and outstanding can­didate at end); Brennan's ability to re­place si.\ of his seven 1954 starters up front and two .All-.'Xnierican backs: Quarterback Ralph Guglielmi and Halfback Joe Heap; and the unearth­ing and development of sufficient var­sity-caliber mateinal from upcoming sophomores and holdovers to give depth to the 1955 starting eleven. Kapish and Lemek both missed the spring sessions. One himdrcd reported for tlie spring workouts. 
Walsh \i New Coach 
A newcomer to the Irish coacliing .statT for 1955 is line coach Bill Walsh, '49, who for tlic last si.v ycai:s started eveiy game as an offensive center for tlie Pittsburgh Steelei's. Last season he was named "All-League Center" in tlie National Football circuit. ^Vhile a player at Notre Dame from 1945 through 1948 ^Valsh started 27 games. 
Few coaching staffs in tlie 66-year histoiy of Notre Dame football have faced the problem which confronts Teny Brennan in his second year as top man at his Alma Mater. Gone from beneath the "Dome" in 1955 will be an aiTay of four-year stickouts whose departure will write finb to an Irish grid epoch: Ends Dan Shannon and Paul Matz, 1954 co-captains; Frank Vanichione, an Ail-American tackle; 
12 S'otrc Dame Atumnus, itay-Jun€t 1955 
Guards Jack Lee and Sam Palumbo: All-.Anicrican Center Dick Szynianski, and Guglielmi and Heap. 
Guglielmi was a unanimous AII­.'^merican quarterback choice last fall and Heap, over a three-year period, nabbed 71 passes, more than any other gridder in Irish liistoiy. 
To replace these luminaries Brennan will, draw upon, besides Schaefer, Moi-se. and Lemek. 14 retimiing mono­gram winners: Gene Kapish, senior, and Bob Scannell, jtmior, ends; Wayne Edmonds, senior, and George Nicula. 
. senior, tackles; Pat Bisceglia, senior, and Gene Martcll, senior, guards; Jim Mensc, senior, and Lou Loncaric, jtm­ior, centers; Dick Fitzgerald, senior, Paul Reynolds, senior, Sliemli Sipes, junior, and Dean Studer, junior, hall-backs: and Paul Homung, jimior, and Nick Raich, senior, fullback. 
An end prospect and monogram-winner, Don George, has left school. 
Martell can play either guard or tackle. Homung will move to quarter­back, and Schaefer will also learn the plays at quarterback for protection puiposes. Mense, at center, and Bis­ceglia, at guard, who filled in at sea­son's end for the injured Szymanski and Lemek, respectively, Iiave had more game e.\])erience than the otiier re­turnees of non-regular status. 
The schedule: Sept. 24, Southern Methodist at Notre Dame: Oct. 1. In-
Dan Shannon and Paul Matz (right) co-capta!ns of the 1954 Irish football team, pose with the shillelagh trophy, symbolic of football supremacy between Notre Dame and Southern California. The trophy was donated by the Los An.s^eles Notre Dame .\Iunmi Club in 1952 with the assistance of Mike Corcoran, L.A. advertbing executive. 
diana^at Notre Dame; Oct. 7, Miami at Miami, Fla. (night); Oct. 15, 
^Michigan State at East Lansing, Mich.: Oct. 22, Purdue at Lafayette, Ind.: Oct. 29, Navy at Notre Dame; Nov. 5, Pennsylvania at Piiiladelphia; Nov. 12, North Carolina at Chapel Hill, N. C.­Nov. 19, Iowa at Notre Dame; and Nov. 26, Southern California at Los Ansreles. 
Captain Stephens Sets New 4-Year Basketball ^Mark of 1,314 Points 
Johnny Jordan's Notre Dame basket­ball team in its 1954-55 campaign had more ups and downs than an elevator gone ainuk, but its "ups" were big ones, viz., the annexation of New Or­leans' Sugar Bowl tourney title in De­cember and the toppling of a sensa­tional Marquette quint in the season's finale—a victoiy that snapped the na­tion's longest winning streak at 22 
«games and tenipoi-arily deflated a ^Val•­rior club that was to go on to oust mighty Kentucky from the NCAA play-otTs. 
At the end of four yeare as head cage mentor at his Alma Mater, Jor­dan's record stands at 71 wins against 28 defeats. 
Although the Irish had a modest 14-10 season, they shattered two indi­vidual records, tied another. 
Captain Jack (Jimior) Stephens, 

"who won national second team /Mi-American lienors, set a new career (four-year) mark of 1,314 points. The former record of 1,227 was set by Dick Rosenthal during tlie previous three years. It is noteworthy, too, that Steph­ens in his last three seasons had 1,251 points and can claim a three-year as well as a four-year record. Stephens also tied the single game high of 35 points set in 1953 by Joe Bertrand. The other individual mark set was that of 
'Center Lloyd Aubrey's 14 field goals in a single game. 
BASEBALL TEAM HAS EIGHT LETTERMEN 
Eight returning lettermen and a promising crop of sophomores have given "Jake" Kline's University of No­"^tre Dame baseball team a mound staff 
with finesse and an outfield with punch to put sparkle into Irish diamond hopes for 1955. 
Kline, a mathematics professor at the University and now in his 22nd year as Irish baseball coach, guided Notre Dame clubs from 1934 through 1954 to 236 victories against 164 losses and three draws. The University, which began intercollegiate baseball competi­tion in 1892, boasts an all-time record of 734 wins, 382 losses, and 13 ties. 
Kline opened the 1955 campaign with a twofold problem: General team inexperience and a nigged Southern trip as an appetizer. 
Clarke Sparks Tennis Squad 
WALLY CL.\RKE 

Coach Charlie Samson will rely on Capt. Maun,' Reidy and ^Vally Clarke, a pair of three-year vets, as the spark­plugs of a Notre Dame tennis squad which initiated its 1955 campaign with an Easter vacation tour throughout the Soiuh. 
Clarke, a two-time monogram win­ner, and Reidy, a triple monogram man, will be the number one and two men in that order as they were during the 1954 season. They were hailed as the top doubles team in the Midwest last year. Senior Bill Reale, the number three netter a year ago and winner of three monograms, will participate as 
the third man in singles for the Irish 
and on the second doubles team. 
In addition to these three front line 
boys, the squad also has adequate re­
serve strength. This depth is provided 
by senior letter-winner Frank Lynch 
and junior letterman John Stuhl­
dreher. Sophomores Harry Pagel, Dean 
Richards, Harry Smith, and Jim Rich 
will round out the squad. At the pres­
ent time, Pagel looks to be the most 
promising of the sophomores. 
Consequently, with an experienced 
front line and good depth, the Irish 
could develop into a Midwest power­
house. 
Teams on the Irish schedule are Vir­
ginia, Duke, North Carolina, North 
Carolina State, Wake Forest, and Ken­
tucky. 
Irish Fencer Tadrowski Cops '55 NCAA Title 
The University of Notre Dame's Don Tadrowski became the first representa­tive of a Midwestern school ever to cop an individual NCAA fencing title by slashing his way to the epee title in the annual year-end tourney at East Lansing, Mich. The 1955 Irish suc­cesses in Lansing marked the fifth time in the last six years that Notre Dame finished among the top 10 entrants. 
The Irish fencers captured a seventh-place certificate in a field of 28 teams. Co-captain Tom Dorwih, with a season record of 27-16, tied for sLxth place in the sabre division. He posted a 13-9 record. The other Irish co-captain, Jim Waters, took 10th place with a 13-12 score, \yaters' season mark was 32-9. 
ELEVEN OPPONENTS ON GOLF SCHEDULE 
Co-captains Bob Filipiak and John Foley are the only returning mono­gram-winners of the 1955 University of Notre Dame golf team. For the 23rd year the Irish linksmen are under the tutelage of the Rev. George Holderith, CS.C. 
The golf schedule is as follows: Louisville, Bradley, Western Illinois, Glenview Naval Air Station, North­western, Purdue, Indiana, Michigan State, Detroit, Iowa, and the National Collegiate Tournament at Kno.xville, Tenn. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, I95S 13 
j^fytm 

Aurora 
After a successful golf ouling at Cr>'stal Lake. 

111., the club proceeded to rafHc off tickets and 
expense money to the ^lichigan State game. 
In Xovcmbcr, thirty-four couples enjoyed dinner 

and dancing at llic Fox Valley Country- Club. 
Tlie pxst four months have been spent complet­

ing arrangements for the annual scholarship to be 
given by the club starting this fall. The applicants 
have been coming in and the task of selecting the 
man shall begin shonly. Tlianks to WILLIAM 
CHAAVGO, the neccssar>* qualifications were sent to 
all of the high schools in our area. 
A» in all, PKES. RILEY has had a %ery good year and the club Js stronger and more active now than at anv time in its history. 
TED ^\^EST, %-icc-presideni, and PAUL OCH­SEN'SCHL.-\GER, secretary-treasurer, rounded out the workers helping John. 
—DICK REEDY 

Baltimore 
The winter business meeting was held on Januarv­25, 1955, at the Sea Girt Room of Tliompson's Res­taurant, on the north side of Baltimore, Md., in line %vith the chib's new polic>- of holding tlicsc meetings in an area accessible to the majority of the club members. The club membership voted upon and passed a motion to send the University $500 for tlic Foundation Fund and $500 for the club's scholarship fund, from the total proBt of $1,267 realized during the Notre Damc-Na\-y game weekend last fall. Plans were also discussed for the 31st Universal Notre Dame Night, April 18. 
Another business meeting wzs held on March 30, 1955 at the Gray Room of the Emerson Hotel and final arrangements for Universal Motre Dame Night were made and officers for the coming year nomi­nated and voted upon. Tlic follou-ing arc the new club officers for 1955-56: ^VILLLVM H. HART­>rA.V, '41, President; D.ANIEL M. O'CONNELL, *49, \^ce-Pre5idcnt; JOSEPH M, DUKERT, *51, Sccretarv-; and ROBERT WILLLVMS, *50, Treas­urer. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated this year on Saturday evening, April 23, at Mart>-'s Restaurant, in downtown Baltimore. In attendance at tlie cocktail party and dinner were alumni, their wives and dates, parents of alumni and present stu­dents and friends of Notre Dame, as well as local city and state dignitaries. Tlic principal speaker Was Dr. J. Edmund Bradley, Head of Pediatrics, University of Mar>-land, and father of MARK BRADLEY, a freshman at Notre Dame. Dr. Brad­ley was one of the outstanding pediatricians in the city of Baltimore prior to his appointment at the University of Maryland. He spoke on Notre Dame's role in the field of higher education. 
JAMES H. MURRAY, JR., '41, who served as president of the club for the terms, 1953-54 ajid 1954-55, was announced at Universal Notre Dame Night as the recipient of the Notre Dame Man­of-the-Year Award. 
—JAMES E. BARRETT, *40, Scc>-. 

Boston 
On February 14, 1955 the club held its Annual Sports Night at the Solarium Room of tlie Hotel Vendome in Boston. A crowd of about 100 Notre Dame men and friends attended the affair. JACK CONWAY, JR., prominent Notre Dame alumnus and sports writer of the Boston American invited Swede Nelson as a guest speaker. Swede, who was a former All-.'Vmerican at Har\'ard and later became an outstanding coach at Har\"ard, gave a wonderful talk on his friendship with KNUTE ROCKNE and the pleasure it had been to become associated with Rbckne and that the countr>' suffered a tremendous loss in Rocknc's dcatli. He also said many compli­mentary things about being a Notre Dame man. As ^sual Swede told a few humorous stories for ivhich he has a national reputation as an after-dinner speaker. 
Wc also showed the "Highlights of 1954 Season" on film which everyone enjoyed, as well as a ten-minute short on **Shake Down the Thunder"—a 

H Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
picture of the Notre Dame victory march. Hotel facilities were available for refreshments (liquid that is a la dutch treat). The proceeds of this affair went to the Notre Dame Foundation. DICK L.\.MERE and JACK CONWAV did a fine job on the publicitv in the Boston papers. Also BOLEY D.\NCE\nECZ and ART STATUTO contributed assistance and yours truly who wzts cliairman of the event wishes to thank cvcr\'onc who helped in making this event the success it was. 
On Marcli 15, 1935 a meeting was held at the University Club for the annual election of officers for the coming year. BILL HEALY w*as elected president. DICK HERLIHY was elected first vice-president. HARRY ROCKETT was elected second vice-president (this being a newly created post). DICK KIRK was elected secretary- and PAUL SULLlVfVN ^\-as elected treasurer. 
ARTHUR STATUTO, of Saugus, Mass., class of *4S, %\-as named head football coach at Revere High Scliool in Revere, Mass. 
.-\ crowd of 200 Notre Darac alumni and their ladies jammed the Oval Room at the Shcraton­Plo/a to celebrate Universal Notre Dame night. JOHNNY JORD/\X, famed Noire Dame basketball player and present basketball coach, u'as the g^cst speaker from the University. He spoke on the growth of Notre Dame within the past ten years and also its future alms. His talk was thoroughly enjoyed by all. Dancing followed the talk and it ^^•as a great time and certainlv enjoved by all. HARRY ROCKETT and BILL O'BRIEN were co-chairmen of the affair and did a wonderful job. 
—MIKE MANZO 

BufFalo 
FATHER JOHN WALSH, C.S.C., faculty mem­ber of Notre Dame's Department of Education, was the main speaker at Universal Notre Dame night on April 18. His talk was a grand clima.x to a per­fect evening. Tlie Hotel Sheraton scrx'cd their famous smorgasbord to al/out 150 Notre I>amcrs and their wives. A cocktail hour preceded the dinner. Chairman JACK SHINE had ever>' detail planned and the progtrmi ran smoothly from cocktails to the grace after meals. TTie following men served on his committee: TED HOLLINGSHEAD, AL IFF­LANDER, NEWMAN EVANS, JOHN EGAN, JOHN COLLINS, and JACK MULLANE. 
Wc take time out here to thank President DICK THOEN and his outgoing administration for a successful year. The Buffalo Club prides Itself in the fact that it sponsors c\'cry function, or event, tliat any otlier Notre Darac Club in the nation sponsors. President Thoen maintained the highy.­standards set in past years, he even added a few . "wxinkles'* of his own. At the present time wc are investigating a car raffle in order to raise money to build up our scliolarshlp fund at the University. 

CY RICHARD is heading up a nominating com­

mittee for the approaching elections. • New officers 
and four new board members will be elected. 
FATHER WILLIAM GARTL.\ND, C.S.C., our chaplain, has made himself nearly Indispensable In the short lime he has been with us. Father never misses a meeting. He teaches at Father Baker High In nearby Lackawanna ^vhere he also scr\'es as Athletic Director. The club leans heavily on his advice. 
The annual Retreat at the Columban Fathers Retreat House, Derby, had its usual 20 members. Chairman MAURY QUINN thought he would beat the average this year because of the number of early rcserx-ations but the devil must have intcr\-encd i at the last minute. !Vlaury said we lost 10 re­treatants from last year and we picked up 10 ne^v ones. Some year he hopes to get us all together and make it an all-Notre Dame Retreat. 
—PAUL J. ALLWEIN, '49, Sec>-. 

Calumet District 
The Calumet Club climaxed its obscrx^ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night by having Father THEODORE HESBURGH, C.S.C, University President, present their Man-of-thc-Ycar Award to \nLLI.\M L. TR^WIS of Hammond, Indiana. The event was held, as it h traditionally, on E:tster ^^onday evening at Phil Smidt's restaurant in Whiting. 
An overflow crowd of Club members and their ^ guests greeted Father Ifcsburgh. whom the Club was most delighted to have as their guest as well as to deliver the principal address of the evening. Father explained, and discussed, in detail the University's Faculty Development program, which is now in full progress. He explained that under this program, faculty members are listed in three categories; those professors used for a Lecture series or an occasional lecture, the semester ap­pointments, and the permanent appointments. 
In presenting their Afan-of-thc-Year award to "BILL" TR/WIS, a member of the Class of 1927, the Club cited him for his outstanding prominence as a civic leader in the Calumet region and for ­his contagious enthusiasm for all matters pertain­ing to Notre Dame. At present he is President of Hammond Chamber of Commerce and is Foun­dation chairman here in Northern Indiana. 
Past-President BILL RILEY, at the request of the -< 
DALLAS—Father Jim Donnelly, C.S.C., '33, missionary in Lampasas, Texas, was guest speaker at recent club meeting. Left to right: John Moran, president; Father Donnelly; Joe Haggar, first vice-president; Charles Lohr, secretary; and Tom Phillips, second \*ice-prcsident. 
Officers and Board of Directors of the Club, pre­sented to JIM MORRISON, last year's prcxy, an engraved plaque of appreciation for his time and efTort spent on the Club's behalf. 
f^ Our annual Sports Stag Dinner was held on February 22 at Jackson*s Restaurant in Can** Over 200 friends and guests of the Club heard ED. "MOOSE" KRcVUSE give one of his t>-pical and' ever-popular dissertations on the campus sport scene and of athletics in general. 
Sharing- tJic spotlight irith Moose " was DON ELSER, Class of 1936, who did an entertaining job of reporting some of his experiences as a Big Ten football and basketball official. Don, who will be remembered by many for his exploits in football and track, is now coacliing football at Horace Afann High School in Gar\-. 
Quite naturally, as might be surmised, quite a bit of good-nataired bantering went on between Don and Afoosc over tlie merits—or other^visc—of all officials—sliades of the Southern Methodist game!!!! 
Father C. D. BERGAN, A.B. '40, was elected Chaplain of the Club for the next year. Father 
\{^i Bcrgan, now assistant at St. Joseph's Church in Hammond, replaces the late ^tsg^. A. Mungovan, who recently passed away. The Class of '49 in the persons of TOM CLIF­FORD and ERNIE HUFFMAN of Gar>- were co-chairmen of the event. Unable to attend were JIM ARMSTRONG and JOHN G\CKLEY ot the Alumni Office. Jim was fighting a bad cold and John's wife presented him •with No. 6 Iieir—for which the Club Iicarttly says congratulations and best %rishes. 
—ERNIE HUFFMAN, *49, Secy. 

Canton 
On the evening of February- 5, 1955, the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Glee Club sponsored by the Signet Club, entertained in excess of 800 alumni, 
!^ patrons, guests and friends in TimVen High School 
*• *• Auditorium. They were ^\*el| received by a very responsive audience. TTic program was v^cd as to religious, classical and gay songs properly spaced throughout the concert mth the "Quartette from Rigolctto" receiving the greatest burst of applause. 
After the concert the Glee Club members were entertained by a part>' sponsored by the Alumni Club, and dates were furnished by the Signet Club, Dancing, food and beverages contributed toward making the evening a vcr\' pleasant and enjoj-able one for all. 
—MAURICE F. ZINK, Sc^-.-Treas. 

Central California 
Tlic infant Notre Dame Club of Central Cali­fornia celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night, 
'. March 25, as its first actinty, assisted by the Men's V^ Club of St. Theresa's Parish. The early date was made necessary to take ad\.-antagc of having RICH­ARD J. BOWES, Associate Public Relations Direc­tor of the University, as the principal speaker. "Dick" OS he is known to the Notre Dame Clubs of the Far West, gave an interesting talk and showed the Football Highlights of 1954, plus a soul-stirring film on the Victory March. Appro.ximatcly 100 guests enjoyed the program which was held in the San Joaquin High School gymnasium, the local Catholic High School. An autographed foot­ball was given au'ay as a door prize and was won by jVmbrose Pancro, a rabid follower of Notre Dame Football. 
The club received a lot of publicity during the week preceding the affair in tlie local newspaper and radio stations, phis a half-hour TV show, which Monsignor James G. DowIIng conducts every Satur­
1^^ day. Dick Bowes did a masterful job for the Uni­"•' vcrsity during the half-hour show, which was de­voted exclusively to Notre Dame. 
A luncheon %%-as held in honor of Fathers Regis O'Neil and John O'Connell, who arc conducting a Mission at St. John's Cathedral, at Fred Boyd's fabulous High Life Restaurant. Tliosc in attendance were President HAh BAIR, '29, BILL V.VNGEN, '47, MIKE KEVES, '25, JOHN CELL:V II, '39, JIM PAGLIASOTTI, '36. Many moments were created and relived. An additional guest \^'as WALTER O'KEEFE, of Radio's Double or Noth­ing program, who is in Fresno as the Ileadllner at the Motel Hacienda. As Walter would say to those of you reading this, "It was a most delightful luncheon." Walter Is tailoring a new act in Fresno, preparing for a sliot at Las Vegas and points East. 
Fathers O'Neil and O'Connell expressed their appreciation to President Bair for taking them on % a trip to our scenic Yosemitc National Park, March 28. 
Cii^x^iivriL, ri::iSNSVLVANlA—^Alumni and students attended a luncheon at the Sunne­hanna Country Club, Johnstown, Pa. Left to right: (back row) Julius Reiner, William Barron, Frank Friedhoff, Jack GriflSth, Bob Dunegan, John Blasic, Stephen J. Conway, Charles G. Hasson; (front row) John Solomon, Thomas Swopc, Donald A. Schettig and Don Schaefer. 
Central Florida 
The officers elected are as follows: ROY B. L/\UGHLIN, '48, President; DAVE SMYTH, '51, Vice-President; and DON SMYTH, '49, Sccretar^-Trcaswrer. 
While our attendance is at present very small, we feel that there will be a good number in our Club when we finish our campaign for new mem­bers. Wc arc at present publicly announcing the formation of our Club and attempting to contact all knofvn alumni and others in Central Florida, through the newspapers and the parishes around Orlando, as well as the mltitar>' bases in the area. 
—DON SMYTH, '49, Sec>-.-Trcas. 

Central New York 
The officers elected for the Central New York Alumni Club of 2sotre Dame for the year 1954-55 were as follows: 
President, THOM/\S J. RYAN, JR., '51; Vice-President, DR. THONLVS E. SNYDER, '47; Re­gional Vice-President, CHARLES E. GEHRIN, '31; Secretary-Treasurer, DONALD J. KLEE, '50. 
The Communion breakfast for the close of the ^farian year w-as held December 5, 1954. Alumni and families attended Mass in a body at 8 a.m. at St. John the E\-angelist Church with breakfast fol­lowing at the Yates Hotel. 
Uni%*ersal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 18 with FATHER JOSEPH BARRY, CS.a , guest speaker from tlie campus. The meeting was held at the University Club In Syracuse. Co-chair­men for the affair were H. PHILIP SHE/\N and KE\1N HARRIGAN. 
—DONALD KLEE, Secy. 

Central Pennsylvania 
Summary' of activities for the past year: Tlic Cen­tral Pennsylvania Club held an election meeting last vear at the cocktail party given bv FATHER PHIL O'DONNELL. Officers elected were: DON SCHETTIG, Ebcnsburg, president; STEVE CON­W.AY, Johnstown, \-ice-president; and CHARLES HASSON, Ebensburg, secretary-treasurer. It was decided at that meeting to expand club activities over a seven-county area comprising Blair, Cambria, Bedford, Somerset, Indiana, Clearfield and Jeffer­son. At the same time the new name of the Notre Dame Club of Central Pennsylvania was adopted. x\t that meeting it was determined that Universal Notre Dame Night would be In Johnstown and that Steve Conway would ser\'c as general idialrman. 
UND Night in 1954 was a tremendous success with FATHER JOHN aWANAUGH as principal speak­er and more than 150 alumni, their wives, parents of students, friends of the University, clergy, busi­ness and civic leaders attending. Father Ca%'anaugh gave hb usual impressive address which was a great stimulus in our Foundation work and added consid­erable prestige to our new club. Excellent co­operation %vas received from both the press and radio. 
Our picnic was held at the summer place of BOB JONES near Altoona. The club's Communion Breakfast was observed in Holy Name Church and at the Ebensburg Inn. During the Christmas holi­days, the club entertained the students and their parents at a luncheon. At that time we urged the organization of a campus club which will hold its first meeting In the near future. 
Man of the Year was RtVLPH ROBERTS, a Notre Dame friend who has taken exceptional in­terest in the University. 
All of the club activities have been built around the Notre Dame family which Includes alumni, friends, students and their parents and wives and children. The Foundation program is progressing very well and alumni have been most co-operative. 
HARRY STUHLDREHER was the principal speaker at the Ebcnsburg-Cambrla High School athletic banquet. Prior to the dinner, Don and Frances Schettig entertained at a cocktail party for him with alumni and Notre Dame friends as guests. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Central Pennsylvania obscr\-ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner held at Sunnehanna Country Club in Johns­town, ^Vedncsday, April 20. It u-as attended by approximately 150 alumni, vvlves, and guests; in­cluding parents of students, friends of Notre Dame, and business, civic, educational, and religious lead­ers of the central Pennsylvania area. 
The toastmaster u-as BILL CLE.AR, '30, of Al­toona, who ably conducted a program which fea­tured induction of officers, presentation of the Afan-of-the-Year Award, and an outstanding and well-received address by guest of Iionor EDWARD (.MOOSE) KRAUSE, Director of Athletics of the University. Moose was introduced by VINCE DAVIS, '35, Director of Athletics of St. Francis College, Loretto, Pa., which recently attained na­tional basketball prominence as seml-Bnallsts in the National Invitation Tournament in New York. 
The Man-of-the-Ycar Award vvas presented by STEVE CONWAY, '37, of Johnstown, to ED SLICK, '30, also of Johnstown, in recognition of his consistent interest In the welfare of the club, and of his very successful efforts In behalf of the University Foundation. 
New officers for the year were installed by out-' going president DON SCHETTIG, '30, of Ebens­burg. They arc STEPHEN J. CON\VAY, '37, Pres­ident; WILLIA.M S. CLEr\R, '30, Vice-President; and CHARLES HASSON, '47, of Ebensburg, who was retained as Secretary-Treasurer. 
Other honor guests were DR. LEO O'DONNELL of Pittsburgh, President of the Notre Dame Alumni xVssociation, and J. FRANK HOLARAN of Wash­ington, D. C , past president of the Central Penn­sylvania Club. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-]une, 195S 15 

Under the guidance of Ed Slick, General Chair­man, tlic afTaJr u-as a splendid success, and tlie club wishes to express its appreciation to the Uni­\'ersity and to Ed Krausc for the honor and pres­tige ivhich wc enjoyed by reason of the presence of sucli a talented and popular speaker. 
Chicago 

Sew officers and governors of the Xotrc Dajnc Club of Chicago were installed at the annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Night dinner at 6 p.m. Mon­day night, April 18, in the Sheraton Hotel. 
JOSEPH A. McCABE, '33, of 632 Forest St., River Forest, III., a member of the advertising staff of the Kemper Insurance Co., was installed as the Club's ne»v president. 
Rear Admiral Daniel V. Galler>-, USN, Chief of Naval Air Reser\-c Training, and Tony Weitzcl, Cliicago Daily News columnist, and FATHER HAROLD RILEY, C.S.C., were featured speakers at this Chicago obscr\'ancc of Universal Notre Dame night which is celebrated annually by alumni clubs all over the world. 
Other officers installed arc: ROBERT EM.METT WRIGHT, '42, of Palos Park, 111., First Vice-Presi­dent; FRANK J. MILLIGAN, '45, of 240 S. Maple Ave., Oak Park, 111., Second Vice-President; THO.MAS P. BROGAiN-, '48, 5038 Washington Blvd., Chicago, Secretary; WILLIANf T. DW\'ER, '45, 6727 Oglcsby, Chicago, Treasurer; and DAN­IEL J. O'CO.VNOR, '03, Glenlakc, Chicago, Honorary President. 
New governors installed are: KENNETH G. EN­RIGHT, JR., '48, of 1841 Clyde Road, Homewood, 111.; WILLLAM .M. HICKEY, '42, of 10057 S. Hoyne, Chicago; JAMES L. FERSTEL, '48, of 5238 
N. TCnihrop, Chicago; ROGER B. WHITE, '50, of 1948 Elmwood, Wilmettc, 111.; PHILIP J. FAC­CENDA, '51, of 223+ S. Keeler, Chicago; DONALD 
J. HOGAN, '42, of 10945 Fairfield, Chicago; WAL­TER A. KIOLBASA, '32, of 5322 School St., Chi­cago; FRED A. JOYCE, JR., '50, 7JM N. RJdge Ave., Chic-tgo; \MLLIAM J. KENNEDY, '37, of 2113 Vardon Lane, Flossmoor, III., and JAMES C. O'KEEFE, of 724 S. East, Oak Park, III. 
Cincinnati 
Our club activities have included: 

December 28, 1955—Nintli Annual Scliolarship Ball held at the PanHon Caprice of the Hotel Nctlicrland Plaza. This formal dance attended by 750 people featured continuous music by two or­cliestras, dance programs with a prize winning photo ot Xotfc Dame campus reproduced on the front cover, novelty glass ash trays as giveawa^-s and a gigantic cocktail party for Patrons of tlie Dance given by the Cincinnati Alumni Club. Tliis dance netted considerable revenue for our Scholar­ship Fund at Xotre Dome. General dance chairman was yours truly with the following committee mem­bers: JOHX McCORMICK, ROHAN KELLEY, DONALD O'DONKELL, DICK A'HEARN, and TOM CASTELLINIj 
Januar>' 13, 1955—A Bowling party at the Hyde Park Countr>- Club. BOB BO.MKAMP, although no "youngster," led the way with a 531 scries. Bob said his success was due to constant physical exercise and good clean living plus a generous supply of lager at all times; 
Our Universal Kite was held on Saturday, April 9, and featured a cocktail-bufTct for members and their friends. One hundred couples attended and applauded when President Jx\CK BRODBERGER presented the "Man-of-the-Year" award to ROB­ERT C. BURKE. After a short talk by Jack Brod­berger outlining some of the basic reasons why Notre Dame AJtimni gather together in a Universal Nile ccU-bratlon, the evening was given over to dancing; 
A Family Communion Sunday and breakfast was arranged by JOHX FE/\D on Laetare Sunday. Fifty-three members and their families received at the Fenwick Chapel and tlien were scr\xd a de­licious breakfast at the Fonlbonnc Club. 
—JOHX E. CROXIX, *48, Seo'. 
Cleveland 

The Cleveland Club held its annual Rockne ^fe­morial ^lass and Communion Breakfast Sunday, April 3, 1955. About 300 Notre Dame men and friends attended this Club activity. BOB LALLY and FRANK GAUL, former N.D. griddcrs, were 

16 Kofrc Dame Alumnus^ May^June, 1955 

co-chairmen for this ver>* successful event. Guest speakers at the Breakfast held in tlie Hollenden Hotel were JOE BOLAND, who served as toast­master, FATHER TOM BRENNAN, CS.C , and TERRY BRENNAN. 
Also at tliis Breakfast the Notre Dame Man-of­the-Year award was made. HUGH 0*NEIL, SR., of .Anchor ^fotor Freight Company, and long prominent in Cleveland's ca\ic affain was presented the award by CHARLES ROHR, last year's re­cipient. 
Only other Club activity in the past •weeks was the annual Retreat held at St. Stanislaus February 25 through February 27. KARL MARTERSTECK, JIM UPRICHARD. FRANK GAUL and JERRY AfcKEEVER handled the arrangements for tJie closed Retreat, and UND Night on April 18. 
The Club vv'as saddened fay the sudden death on March 11, 1955 of Mr. FRANK R. DITTOE, *3I. Mr. Dittoc was Manager of Industrial Relations for the Kelley Island Lime Transport Company, Cleve* land, and lived at 19840 Riverview Road, Rocky River, Ohio. Surviring Mr. Dlttoe are his wife, Rose, and five children. Eve, 16; ^fichael, 15; Ricli­anJ, 12; Patrick, 9 and Mary Ellen, 7. 
—ROBERT F. O'MALLEY, Scc>-. 

Columbus 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Columbus on Saturday, April 16. It will likely go down as the most memorable day for X'otre Dame in the Ohio Capital since that fall day in 1935. 
Our "Night" program really began in the after­noon when our X*otre Dame baseball team took the measure of Ohio State in a double-header on Ohio Field. 
Tlie evening program was held in Memorial Hall where the Notre Dame Glee Club sang in concert to a large and enthusiastic audience. This visit ot the Glee Club will long be remembered for its splendid performance. 
During the musical program time was taken out for our annual celebration of Universal N.D. Night. The "Man-of-thc-Year'* Award was presented to LEO J. KLETZLY—Class of 1931. In making the presentation, our Club President—JOHN AIURPHY —listed Leo*s many line qualities and described him as' an ouutanding Catholic gentleman, a real Notre Dame man. Besides having his two sons, £rny and Lee at Notre Dame aC present he has a daughter, Marcia, at St. Mar>-*s of the Springs Academy. Leo was taken quite by surprise, but accepted in his usual witty but modest manner. 
The next event on the program was the appear­ance of our own All-American R(\LPH GUGLI­ELMI who was the recipient of a fine trophy from the Club. The presentation was made by Gov­ernor Frank J. Lausche. He spoke of Ralph, not , only as a great athlete, but an all-around splendid ^ young man and vrished bim success in his new 

; career. Ralph responded in fine fashion. Certainly the audience soon learned that besides being a great forward passing quarterback he is an ex­cellent public speaker. Amons the many distinguished guests m attend­ance was His Excellency, Most Rev. Micliael J. Ready, Bishop of Columbus. We were very* pleased to see so many ND men and their wives from sur­rounding cities and towns in Central Ohio. 
Immediately following the Concert a reception was held at the Deshler-Hilton Hotel for the members and their friends. The Club played host to MR. PEDTKE and the young men from the Glee Club as well as COACH KLINE and the members of , the baseball team. 
.\II monies derived from the concert are being used to establish a Scholarship Fund. From this *f fund the Club will assist deserving young men from this area attending Notre Dame. 
General Chairman for the program was JOHN 

J. KLOCKE, JR. This young man, a former Glee Club member himself, did a fine job in directing the ditlcrcnt committees headed by DR. J. J. HUGHES, 
T. VINCENT MARTIN, JOHX \V. GORDON', JR., LOUIS C. (BUD) MURPHY, and THO.MAS 
M. H/\RT. 
Tile fine cooperation of the Club members and especially the wonderful help received from the wives was a big factor in the success of the vvhole program. 
JOHX R. MURPHY, Class of 1928, was re­elected president for another year. Also re-elected were EUGEXE COYLE, \^ce-Presidcnt, and L.\RRY STEMBER, Secretarv*. ' Due to. business demands our Treasurer, ILVRRY "BO " XESTER asked to t resign and he was succeeded by his brother, JOHN NESTER. Elected as a new member of the Board of Trustees was JAMES GVRROLL. ' 
On Fcbruar>- 2, Coach WILLIAM J. E.\RLEY, President of the X.D. Atonogram Club, was in CIK lumbus in connection with tlie presentation of the REVEREND HUGH J. O'DONXELL Memorial Trophy to Ohio State University. Preceding the banquet, our Club held a cocktail party at the Scioto Countr>' Club. Monogram Club members from this area served as the reception committee. Guests of the Club along with Coacli Earley, were the local sports writers together with Coacli Woody Hayes and his staff of assistants at Ohio State. A 
CLEVELAND—Head tabic guests at the Rocknc Communion Breakfast, sponsored by the NV Alumni Club o( Cleveland, include (left to right): John A. Matousek, V-P; Msgr. Ed­ward Seward; Robert Lally, chairman; Father Thomas Brennan, C.S.C.; Terry Brennan; Joe Boland, toastmastcr; Frank Gaul, president; Alex Zirin; Robert Stock. 
vcr>' nice party—and one of the guests was heard 
to say lliat liiis was the first time OSU ever received anything from Notre Dame. 
—LARRY STEMBER, Secy. 

r 
Connecticut Valley 
Once again this year the Connecticut Valley Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night In conjunc­tion with the Neu' Haven, 'VVatcrburj' and Bridge­port Clubs at the Waverly Inn, Chcsire, Conn. The afTair was held on Sunday, April 17, from 4-10 p.m. A cocktail hour was enjoyed from 4-5 p.m.. followed by a roast beef dinner from 5-6:30 p.m. Tlie prin­dpal speaker for the ewning was varsity basketball coach JOHNNY JORDAN. This part of the pro­gram was concluded with the presentation of the man-of-the-year awards. JOHN F. ROBINSON, '28, received the award from the Connecticut Valley Club. The last stage of the program consisted of dancing and bull sessions with the gathering of nearly 300 people breaking up shortly after 10 p.m. For 
' the second successive year this party was regarded as 

a complete success. 
t\s a result of the elections held by the Connecti­cut Valley Club on March 15 the ollicers of the club for the coming vear arc: President, JIM FL.\HERT\', '53; Vice-President. ART .McGEE, '31; Sccrctan.-, LOU BERGERON, '52; Treasurer, BILL WAELDNER, '43. 
—JL\l FL.VHERT\% Scc>-. 

Cuba 
FATHER WILLIAM CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C., was guest at a recent meeting of the Notre Dame alumni club in Ha\-ana. Tlie meeting was held in ' the home of EUGENIO R.U*NERI, '(M. Mr. Ray­neri was the architect for the capitol building in , Cuba which is a small edition of the U. S. capitol 
^ structure in Washington. The alunini in Havana gave a lestiuionlal dinner 
• for Father Cunningliam at the Comodoro Yacht Club which was attended by alumni in the area and their wives. 
Dallas 
Tlie rapid-tempo of activities conducted by the Notre Dame Club of Dallas continues! 
The Club pulled a switch from the itsual Com~ munion Breakfast to a Communion Supper %%'hich resulted in doubling attendance to about 65. The first Communion Supper was held Sunday, February* 20, with Mass at Christ the King Church. Com­munion was received in a body. Guest speakers 
^ at supper were Paulist Fathers John Bradley and 
iV Jobn Reynolds and club chaplain Msgr. William 
^ F. O'Brien. 
With deep regret we report the passing ol Fran Herrick, wife of DR. DICK HERRICK, one of our members. Tlie Club had a Requiem Mass said for Fran as well as remembering her in many Masses and Conununions. 
At the last Club meeting, held March 16 at the Lakewood Country Club, announcement was made of a $2400 scholarship. It is expected that this fund, raised principally from the ND>SMU rally and the Club*s Christmas Dance, will send a boy to Notre Dame in the fall and assure htm of $600 yearly for four years. An outline of scliolarship plans have been drawn up by a specially selected committee. These plans have been submitted to University officials for final approval. 
For the first time in five years, a new, printed 
<•*, Club directory has just come off the press and been distributed to all members. It is a ver>' compre­hensive compilation of the names, addresses, etc., of all the members. 
At its March meeting. Club members received a rare treat in the personage of REVEREND JIM DONNELLY, C.S.C., of St. Mark's Missions, Lam­pasas, Texas. A graduate of the Class of '33, Father Donnelly is a man of tremendous entlnisiasm and dynamism. As guest speaker, he very graph­ically described the wonderful work he is doing amongst the poor in tliat area of Texas. In partic­ular, he dwelt on the work being accomplished toward the completion of an International Shrine called "Our Lady of the Pillar." With all the fcr\'enc>* at bis command, Father Donnelly ex­pressed the hope that this International Shrine would eventually bring hordes of \-isitors from all 
' over the world to that section of the Lone Star 
•^ State. 
CUBA—Father William Cunningham, C.S.C., visited with alumni in Havana at the home of Eugenic Raj-neri, *04. Left to right: Alberto Salazar, Emilio Salazar, Eugenio Rayneri, Father Cunningham, Virgilio Rayncri, Cesar Munecas and Braulio Munecas. 
For the first time in the Club's histor>" an in­cumbent president of the University was the hon­ored guest at our Universal Notre Dame Night event on Tuesday, April 26. The Reverend Theo­dore ^L Hcsburgli, C.S.C., graced us with his pres­ence on that night of nights. The site was the elaborate new Dallas Club in the new Republic Bank Building. 
—BUDDY GOLD.MrVN, '36 

Dayton 
TIic Board of Directors met in January to ap­prove the press releases and other publicity pre­pared by our president, LEO CONDRON, for the announcement of the ROBERT F. R.-\NEY Scliolar­ship. At that time plans were also made for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night and an informal dance for the Alumni and present students at Notre Dame during the Easter season. 
COACH JOHN DRUZE and RALPH GUGLI­ELMI came to Dayton on Februar>- 10 to speak at an athletic banquet at Our Lady of Mercy parish. A large gathering of our alumni met them and had lunch at Sutlmillcr's restaurant. 
A regular meeting was held on February 15 at Suttmiller's at which the Football Highlights of 1954 were shown. 
TIic Scholarship Screening Committee for the Robert F. Rancy Scholarship met on March 1 and selected a Chaminade High Sdiool senior as the recipient of this first scholarship venture of our Ahunni Club. We were honored and ver>- fortunate to have on our committee Father Edward A. Con­naiighton, superintendent of Dayton Parocliial Schools; Harold Boda, assistant superintendent of Dayton Public Sclioob; David L. Rike, president of the Rike-KumJcr Co., and recent recipient of the Retailcr-of-thc-Year Award; W. ED.MUND SHE.\, '23, assistant county prosecutor; and EUGENE A. MAYL, '24, attorney. They chose Louis S. Kavanaugh winner of the §2,000 scholar­ship for his superior scholastic record, promise of leadership and interest in the University of Notre Dame. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated April 18 at Antlcoli's Restaurant where wc had a fine gathering of our alunini and their wives. FATHER TOM BRENNAN was our speaker for the eve­ning and entertained a receptive audience. The Man-of-thc-Vear A\vard was presented and the new officers and board members of the Alumni Club were ann(Kinccd. 
—WILLIA.M W. MacMILL.\N, JR., Sec^-. 

Dearborn 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Detroit this year on Wednesday, April 13, at the Latin Quarter, Detroit. 
The guest of honor was the REVEREND JOHN 
J. CiVVANAUGH, former President of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. Dr. Kenneth McFarland, £du­csitional Consultant and Lecturer for General Mo­tors Corporation, was the principal speaker. Mr. 
E. C. Quinn, Vice-President of Chrysler Corpora­tion, was Toastmaster. 
Follo\*-ing arc the results of the election of offi­cers for 1955: President, JERRY WAYNO, Vice-President, JERRY GASS; Secretary, CLEM CON­ST.\NTLNE; Treasurer, Lx\RRY DOL.-\N. 
Directors for 1955-1957 include: GEORGE BALL, RICHARD KING, CLEM CONSTANTINE, and LARRY DOLr\N, 
At the general meeting on December 10, 1954, a decision was made by the membership to send a substantial unrestricted gift to the Notre Dame Foundation. The gift has been sent and officially accepted by the Foundation. 
Our wives were entertained on Saturday, Janu­ary- 22, at the Annual Dinner Dance which was a huge *niccc55, thanks to the efforts of chairman LARRY DOLAN. Cocktails, turkey dinner, music, dancing and "baby" talk were the order of the evening. All 38 who atteadcd are anxiously antici­pating next year's dinner dance. 
Closely following the meeting, on March I, a Stag Dinner was held at tvhich the 1955 Notre Dame Foundation drive was discussed by NL\RC VERBIEST, Foundation Governor for Michigan, PETE KERNAN, Dearborn Foundation Chairman, BILL CAREY, Chicago Foundation Director and ALLAN POWERS, Michigan Foundation Director. Mr. Powers described the critical need for funds that exists in the Foundation and outlined the re­sults that have already been accomplished by it. Dinner cJiairman was JIM KING. 
—GERRY GASS, Sec>-.-Treas. 

Delaware 
At a meeting held March 14, the Notre Dame Club of Delaware elected the following officers for the coming yean 
President, CHARLES A. \V'OLFE, JR., '50; Vice-President, JOHN McVEIGH, *51; Secretary-Treas­urer, ALEXANDER PETRILLO, 'M. 
The meeting was devoted largely to discussion of the Notre Dame Band concert to be given in Wilmington, Easter week. This concert was ar» ranged by UrsiUinc Academy and is being given the active cooperation of the local club. 
—ARTHUR A. BAUM 

Denver 
At a general meeting of the Denver Notre Dame Club held on March 24 the following were elected officers for the year 1955: President. PHILIP J. CLARKE, '+»; Vice-President, JOHN D. RYAN, '48; Secretary, LEO ROBIDOUX, '41; Treasurer, JERRY M. SHE,\, '43. 
Outgoing members of the 1954 Board of Direc­tors are ROBERT J, FLYNN, DR. JOHN D. HEMMING, and THO.\US J. GARGAN. The 
Notre Dame Atumnus^ May-June, 1955 17 
new Board of Directors for tlie year 1955 are as folIoi«: A. L. DOUDS, JAMES F. HAXLON, GERARD J. SMITH and ROBERT J. MOLLOY. THO.MAS J. GARGAN u-as elected to the notly­crcated post of Publicity Director. 
—THOM.\S J. GARGAN, Publicity Director. 
Detroit 
The club's annual retreat was held at Manrcsa 
Jesuit Retreat House on February- 25-27. JOHN 
DOOLEY was cliainnan. 
FATHER JOHN aW.VXAUGH, C.S.C., x»as a special guest at the club's USD Night dinner. 
El Paso 
The Notre Dame Club of El I*aso celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner at Ardo­\ina's Steak House on Monday, April 18. At the dinner, DICK SMITH, *37, club president, made the presentation of tlie club's first Man-of-thc-Year a\^•a^d to ROBERT O'AtALLEV, M5. The award Was made in recognition of Bob's outstanding parish and diocesan activities climaxed by his recent ap­pointment as president of the El Paso Deanery of tlic National Council of Catholic Men. 
Immediately following the presentation, the lai^e turnout was treated to tlie movie, ^'Highlights of the 1954 Fighting Irish," 
—TIM HxVNRAHAN, Secy. 
Flint 
A meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Flint was held at the Elks^ Club on Februarv* 15 at 8 
p.m.
 In cliargc of arrangements was DR. DAN 

H.
 SHEERAN, who sho%%'ed a picture of the Notre Dame-Iowa game of 1953, the thrilling 14-14 con­troversial game. He also showed two other pic­tures. The Spirit of Notre Dame and Afen of Notre Dame. 



Odicr business included tlie possibility of arrang­ing for 500 tickets for a train excursion for the Southern Methodist game to be played at Soutli Bend, September 24. In charge of these arrange­ments arc A. S. FUHRMAN, assisted by LARRY SAXE. Guests attending tlie meeting included DR. JOSEPH MACKSOOD, JOHN HALEY and AR­CHIE CAMPBELL. A bufTct lunch was served and meeting ^^'as adjourned. 
—TED MANYAK, Sec>-.-Treas. 
Fort Lauderdale 
Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale officers for 1955 are: President, R. H. GORE, JR.. »31; Vice-President, JOHN SULUVAN, '31; Secretary, GEORGE H. GORE, '48;" Treasurer, T. GORE, '50. Hononuy- officers: President, DR. H. SERVICE; Vice-President, WILLIAM MOSS; Secretary, DR. 
H. MANNLNG; Treasurer, HAL PETERS. On the evening of February-10^ 1955^ the local Notre Dome Club of Fort Lauderdale had its regular monthly meeting. It consisted of dinner at one of our outstanding night spots and thrxc were approximately 100 members and guests present. The highlights of the evening were a pleasant and en­joyable address by MOOSE KRAUSE, the Athletic Director of the University and in addition a show­ing of the highlights of the 1954 season. This may sound like a pat on the back, hut after tlie meet­ing nothing was heard but praise for the University 

as well as our local chapter. —GEORGE H. GORE 
Green Bay 

About forty members of the Notre Dame Club of Green Bay and ihcir wives met for cocktails and dinner at the new Red Chvl Cafeteria on .April 18 to celebrate Universal Notre Dame night. 
Following the dinner, a short business meeting was held and WILLIAM F. KERWIN, retiring president of the club, introduced the n«vly elected officers for the coming vear. They arc JACK A. VAINISI, Presidcntj LOUIS RYMKUS, Vice Presi­dent; and THOMAS ROUGEUX, Secretary-Treas­urer. 
Mr. BILL EJVRLEY, assistant coach at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, was the principal speaker. He gave a brief preview of the Irish squad for the 1955 season. 
Tlie high spot of the evening was the awarding of the Notre Dame >f an-of-the-Vear scroll to LEVI GENIESSE , class of '24, prominent Green Bay architect. Mr. Geniessc more than qualified for this award because of his Catholic principles, devotion to family, and untiring work toward cine welfare. His son, Joseph Francis Geneisse, attended Notre Dame for tlirce years before joining the Con­gregation of Holy Cross and is presently stud>'ing Tlieology in Rome. Mr. Geniessc also has a daugh­ter, Virginia, who is a Dominican nun. 
Tlie program closed with tlie showing of the 1954 Notre Dame football hi-Iites. 
Hiawathaland 
Among tlic 900 guests who heard Coacli TERRY BRENNAN speak at the first annual breakfast of a Holy Name societies at Marinette, Wisconsin on \ February 6 were many members of the Hia^v^tha­land Club. Among those sitting at the speakers' table were President RAY EBLI, JOHN LEMMER, j ROBERT LcMIRE, HENRY I^\UER.MAN, FRANK L.1UE20MN, FR^VNCIS L/\NGRILL, JA.MES KU­BER, MIKE O'HARA, TOM PLOUFF, JOHN PLOUFF, MIKE CORRY, ROBERT VOELKER. 
—ROBERT VOELKER, Secy. 

Houston 
The Club sponsored a special train to Dallas December 4 for the Soutlicm Methodist game. A capacity group of 525 predominantly Irish support­ers filled the 13-car train. A partial list of those , primarily responsible for the success of the venture . includes: TOM BRENNAN ^v•ho headed sales for ' the Club, and Mrs. LEO LINBECK who led the sales work of the Ladies' .\uxiliary; DON O'BRIEN, advertising; JIMMY YOUNG, in charge of bar car arrangements; and FR/VNK MOORE, publicity. Prominent in aiding Tom Brennan were LEIGH­TON YOUNG, LEO LINBECK, TOMMY SCHEX­NA^DER and JOHN KELLEY. A complete list of those who assisted in this endeavor would take considerable space. Mrs. PAUL DOYLE of the Ladies' Auxiliary, handled all phone inquiries and correspondence in connection with the project. The financial return on the special will enable the Club to donate S2,500 to the University in the form of a direct gift. 
On Sunday. December 12. the Club held its an­nual Communion Breakfast. Moss was celebrated bv FATHER THO.MAS CEMON, Club Chaplain, at ^ his new St. ^ficliael's Cliurch. Good fortune brought FATHER JOHN a\LL/\HAN of the Mis­sion Band to St. Michacrs parish at this time and the Club was honored to have him deliver the ser­mon. Interestingly enough the new Church was designed by Club member GEORGE McHALE and built by the construction company of Club member Leo Linbeck. Breakfast following tlie ifass was held at Tanglcwood Hacienda. Speaker for the occasion was the distinguished President of St. Thomas University (of Houston). Father V. J. Giiinan. The splendid arrangements which resulted in the Club's largest turnout for this function were 
PITTSBURGH—Eighty-three club members attended the annual retreat held at St. Paul of the Cross Retreat House. 
Xotre Dame Alumnus, Afay-June, 1955 

ROCKFORD—-Father T. J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., associate director of the ND Foundation, was guest speaker at the club's Communion Break­fast. Left to right: Jim Dunn, '39, Jack Sullivan, '49, Father O'Donncll, Tom Kccgan, '30, Mike Lorden, '24, Bishop Raymond P. Hil­lingcr, Father Joseph Reikas, '46, and Lcn Condon, '32. 
" madL- liy former Club President GENE MALLOY. Tile annual Christmas party rcgistcrcti a new - • high with attendance of 70 members and guests at 
^ the Briar Club December 28. GEORGE W. GIST u'as 3 Rimt thorough Chairman in handling pre­party arrangements and a most congenial host the night of the party. Had awards been presented that evening they would undoubtedly have gone to DOW ZiVBOLIO and -Mrs. DON O'BRIEN for their exe­cution of the Samba, to DO.V .McCRORY and Miss PAT O'KEEFE for their proficiency in the Charles­ton, and to TOM.MY GREEN for his agility in the Bunny Hop. 
Tile annual retreat was successfully held in Feb­rruuy. BILLY GARRETT and BUD BROCK,\f.VN were co-chairmen. 
—PAUL DOYLE. 

Indianapolis 
fL. Universal Xotre Bomc Night at Indiaaapoiis was the usual bis success. It was held on April 16 at the Ind'ianapoiis Athletic Club. Over 500 alumni, friends and wives attended. The principal speaker was REV. THEODORE HESBURGH, who gave all the listeners a new idea on the universality of the Notre Dame spirit. Other honored guests were 
' Ardibishop Paul C. ScJiuItc, Governor George N. 
, Craig, and ^fayo^ and Mrs. Alex M. Clark. Tlie overflowing turnout was a real tribute to the hard ^-ork of Chairman HENRY K. ENGEL, together with those officers who assisted him, JOHN R. WELCH, president; JOE FITZGER/\LD, vice-presi­dent; and JOE McNAMARA, treasurer. 
The new officers arc right now busily scheduling activities for the coming year, and the year 1955-56 looks to be anotlier banner year here in our Hoosier Capital City. 
—UVRRY TURNER, SCQ-. 

Joliet 
More than 500 people joined the club in celebrat­ing Universal Notre Dame night April 14, a great testimonial to the growing spirit of Our Lady in Joliet. TERRY BRENNAN, already a friend to many in Joliet, was our main speaker. John P. Carmichael, well-known sports editor of the Chi­cago Daily News. serv*cd as master of ceremonies. 
WALT VOrriK, club president for '55, intro­duccd Camiichacl to get the wonderful program under way . . . from there on it was a great night for the Irish. iVmong present and former ND greats on the program were DON SCHAEFER, DAN SHANNON and PAUL AfATZ, members of Brennan's first eleven at Notre Dame; BILL WIGHTKIN and GEORGE CONNOR of the Chi­
^cag o Bears; and JERRY GROOM of the Chicago Cardinals, a member of the club in Joliet. 
During the course of the evening, the club's plaque for the outstanding player on the Joliet Catholic High school football team for 1954 was awarded to Jim Kavanaugh, an end. Other highlights included selection of the Man of the Year and prizes of a Notre Dame blanket and a cocktail set awarded from a dra\%-ing of attendance tickets. 
Walt Voitik was general chairman of the pro­gram assisted by JOHN KINSELL^\, Wce-prcsidcnt; K\V TRIZNA, secretary; and JOHN COMER­FORD, treasurer. Others on committees for tlie program were: JOSEPH STENGELE and FRED HENEGH.VN, tickets; JOSEPH BR.\DY and JOHN KENNEDY, dinner arrangements; THOMAS AflN-ZING, L^VWRENCE WEINBROD and DON TURK, advertising; CHARLES BROWN and DON­ALD WISE, transportation; and JOHN MIN2ING and RICILVRD McaVRTHY, publicity. 
Last month the club's St. Patrick's Day dance was also a great success. More than 130 couples attended the popular mid-Lcnien afTair. General Chairman for the dance was JOSEPH ADLER; tickets, JOHN HORRIG.VN and ED D'ARCY; decorations, MARTY and JERRY GLExVSON and DAS KENNEDY; publicitv, JOHN MINZING and RICHARD McaVRTHY. They were assisted by the Club's ofliccrs. 
—RICK Afca^RTHY 

Kansas City 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on April 18 with JIM ARMSTRONG as prindpal speaker. Movies of the 1954 Football Highlights and ilie new campus film "Shake Down the Thunder" were shown. The program was a stag smoker tor alumni and guests. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Kansas City Scholar­ship Fund now totals $8,000. During 1954 the chib presented to the University $4,531 whicli included the auxiliary and club proceeds from \'arious pro­grams. This year the auxiliary- presented a check in the amount of $1,335.26 for their 1955 fiscal year acti\ities. This is a tremendous tribute to our Sotcc Dame Auxiliary, The club presented the University a check in the amount of $2,133.74 cov­ering our 1955 fiscal year proceeds. 
Kentucky 
One of the annual events of the Club is sponsor­ing an essay contest .in the two Louisville hoys' High Schools, on "Why—A Catholic College Edu­cation." Winners announced were Joseph Weber, St. Xavier High Scliool and Marion O'Bryan, Flaget High School. This year. Our Lady of Prowdence 
High School, New Albany, Indiana, ivill be included 
in the contest. 
Under BILL PALMER'S able direction the Club had four very successful Communion Breakfasts during the year. All members are urged to bring their famiUes to the fourth quarterly Communion Breakfast held in December. 
Last year's football trips were the most successful financially of the past lew years* Much of the success was due to the hard work of DICK AVIL­LENBRINK and his committeemen. It is the cus­tom of the Club to invite as guests on one trip a group of 100 bo>-s from the Louisville area. This group consists of orphans and undcrpri\*ilcgcd chil­dren. The trips have become rather popular through the years since a minimum of profit is taken and the convenience of only a one-day trip. 
The Christmas Dance scheduled so as to take place during the students' \'acaiton ^vas a social as well as financial success. The Students and Alumni work very closely on this project and each year the hard work and long* hours of planning manifest themselves in the enjoyment had by all. The stu­dents' club without whose support the event would not be a success, ^ares equally with our Club any proHt that is produced by the dance. 
Twice tlie Club was honored by visitors from the University; first, COACH JOHN*NY JORDx\N and his team were guests at a reception given by the Club after the U. of L.-N.D. basketball game; secondly, TERRY BRENNAN who was in Louis­ville to receive an award from the U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce, came to our regular Janu­ary* meeting and was guest speaker. 
JOE HARMON was chairman of Universal Notre Dame Night. Father ALFRED MENDEZ was the principal speaker this year and a big evening was had by all. 
—PAUL MALONEY, Secy. 

LaCrosse 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night program was held on Monday, April 18, at Heileman's rathskeller. ^Vc showed the films of the 1954 football season and the history* of the Victory March. The latter film wza also shown over television station IVKBT in connection •with our observance of Notre Dame Night. A turnout of approximately twenty members was present. 
New officers of the club are: "WILLWM F. DVORAK, '43, President; HENRY FUNK, *50, Vice-President; JOSEPH BECKER, '50, Secretary; JAMES KRONER, '50, Treasurer. 
Other events on the annual program of the dub indude: Summer dinner dance, June 20, 1955, Co-Chairmen, JAMES KRONER and HENRY FUNK; Communion Breakfast, December 10, 1953, Chair­
jVoIre Dame Alumnus, May-June^ 1955 19 
man, JANfES KRONER; Christmas Fonnal, Decem­ber 28, 1955, chairman, HENRY FUNK. —JOSEPH BECKER, Sec>-. 
Los Angeles 
Universal Notre Dame Night •v^'as celebrated on 
April 18 at tlic University Club. Jimmic Burke, 
popular screen and TV actor, was master of cere­
monies. FATHER WADE, C.S.C., was on tiie 
speaking program as was Dr. William E. Burby 
of the us e Law Sdiool. 
A tentative schedule of events for this year is as 
follows: .\ugust 28, annual picnic; October 21, re­
treat (Manresa); October 27, sports dinner; Novem­
ber 25, rally, USC game; December 11, Communion 
Breakfast. 
Club officers for the next year arc: president, 
DR. LEO TURGEON; first vice-president; 
GEORGE .MEEKER; second nce-prcsident, ED 
SHEERAN; sccrctarv-treasurer, GENE OVLHOUN. 
Mexico City 
Alimini in Mexico City had the honor of having the REV, THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, as principal speaker at the UXD Night banquet on April 28 at the Uni­versity Club. Inritations were sent to Notre Dame alumni and their wives, to the U. S. Ambassador to Mexico, high Mexican govcmnicnt officials and prominent .•\mericans in Nfcxican business circles. Special guests included the Rector of the National University in ^fcxico, Mr. Paul Murray, The heads of the committees were RICHARD LEON, *47, arrangements; ALEJANDRO ARENA, *27, invita­tions; and a-VRLOS A. HENKEL, '37, publicity. 
Michigan City 
At a meeting of the Notre Dame Club the fol­
lovs-ing neu* officers were elected: President, ROB­
ERT N. SCHIEL ('43); vice-president, DR. ROB­
ERT J. FROST ('40); Treasurer, EDWARD J. 
DWTER ('50); Secretary-, STEPHEN L. PAVELA 
(•48). 
—FR.\N'CIS G. FEDDER, ReUring Secj-. 
Milwaukee 
Nevr officers for 1955 recently elected are: RAV 
W. DW^'ER, JR., president; MARK A. PFALLER, \nce-prcsidcnt; ROBERT G. SANFORD, secretary-treasurer; >MLLL\.\I G. DOUCETTE, board cliair­man. TJie program for 1955 includes a drive for funds for the University on May 6-20 with DON GOTTSCHALK and R.Ay DWYER co-chairmen; a dance in July with DON ROSS as cihairman; stag picnic, August 17, with TOM DALLMAN scr\-ing as chairman; fail smoker (dnte and chairman lo be announced); Pabst Brewer>- (wives—date to be an­noimced) with LARRY CORUN as chairman; Com­munion Breakfast on December II which will in­clude \rivcs with JOHN LINEHAN as chairman. 
Mohawk Valley 
At a recent meeting of the club the Football HigliHghts of 1954 were shown, Tliis nio\'ie was also exhibited at the Utica Catholic Academy through the elTorts of CHARLIE HITZELBERGER and at tlic Club Union of Revere Copper and Brass Company as well as St. Aloynus High School through the courtesy of LOU CLARK and BILL LYNCH. About 15 fathers and friends and about 20 alumni attended the meeting. TONY GIRUZZI presided. Many of the >-ounger alumni attended as well as the old guard. 
—EDWARD SWEENEY, Secy. 
Muskegon 
Prof. ARTHUR REYNIERS, director of Lobund, 
•h-as prindpal speaker at the club's UND Night party on April 18. 
The club held a dinner meeting on February 21 at Bill Stem's Steak House which featured tlie 1954 Football Highlights with a commentary by MIKE CORGAN. 
Naugatuck Valley 
Uni^-crsal Notre Dame Night was observed on Sunday, April 17, at Waverly Inn, Cheshire, by alumni of tlie Naugatuck Vallc>- and otlicr Notre Dame dubs throughout ConnecticuU Coach JOHN 


20 Notre Dame Alumnui, May-June, 1955 

JORDAN was principal speaker while the master expressed the ever present need for new fadlttics to 
of ceremonies was REV, ROBERT KEATING, . meet the needs of an expanding University. 
chaplain. Dancing follo>vcd the program. BERT Jackie Farrcll, prominent publicity director of the 
HENEBRY and JAMES SCIGLIANO were co-New York Yankees, and Notre Dame enthusiast, 
chairmen of the c\'cnt. Otlicr meetings whicli complemented tlie program with many stories of 
have been held this year include a program on our national sport and the anticipated return of the .i 
February 14 which was attended by alumni, stu­Yankees to pre-eminence in the baseball world. 
dents and their parents and prospective students. 
^fonsignor John L. McNulty, President of grow­President W.\LTER MARUT presided. 

ing Seton Hall University, our diocesan school, ^vas The annual Sports Night program featuring the 
an honored guest while ART .MULHEARN, *38. Highlights of 1954 was held on Marcli 14. 
club prc-vy, was master of ccremonics. Thc evening was its usual success, with the spe­Rc\*. Terrencc McMahon, executive editor of the cial opportunity for graduates lo collectively get Catliolic Transcript, was tlie guest speaker at the together in honor of the University, May meeting. Plans are being formulated for the 
third anmial Notre Dame family picnic to be held —TOM FARLEY, '50, Secy. 
in June. TERRY BRENNAN was the principal 
speaker at tlie Industrial Management CluVs annual 

Sports Night program in Torrington, Conn., on New Mexico 
February 1. JOE JACOBS was chairman of tliis Universal Notre Dame Night was obser\'ed by afTair which was attended by Jim Sci'gliano, Bert the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico on Monday Hcnebry, NEIL MACKAY and BILL ANDRES. 

evening, April 18, 1955, at a Dinner Meeting In JOHN LAW was a recent \Tsitor in town and a fc^v tlie Alvarado Hotel in ^Ubuquerquc. Approximately of the bo\-s got together witli him after his speak­eighty /Uumni and friends were in attendance. The ing engagement before the Chase Copper Foremen's Most Reverend Edwin V. Byrne, Arclibishop of Club. The club is planning to run a football excur­Santa Fe and the Honorable John F. Sinims, Gov­sion to the Notre Dame-Pcnn game this year in ernor of New Mexico, were honon-d guests and Philadelphia on November 5. Club meetings are Alumni Board Member JOE O'NEILL, Midland, held tlie second Monday of evcr>' month and all Texas, was principal speaker. ANTHONY F. PO­altunni arc ini*itcd. 
TENZUNI, Vjce-]»re.sidcnt of the Club, was Cliair-New officers are: MAURICE NOONAN, Water­
man of this obser\-ance and CECIL E. JORD.\N, bur>% President; THOMAS EG.\N, "Winchester, 
Pnsidcnt, presided. Vice-President; NORBERT HENEBRY, Waterbury, —CECIL JORDAN Sec^ctar^-: JAMES J. SCIGLLUs'O. Waterbur>% Treasurer. —BERT HENEBRY 
New Orleans 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obscr\'ed Wed­

nesday night, April 20, in the form of a dinner 
party at the Ne»' Orleans Country Club. 
On Sunday, March 6, the Notre Dame Club of Wives, prospective students and friends of the New Jersey held a Communion Breakfast for its University joined a good rurnout of the Alumni members and friends. Tlic Mass was celebrated to make the night a great success. >• < at Sacred Heart Cathedral, Newark, and the break­REV. FREDERICK DIGBY, JR., '39, was se-' fast was in the Suburban Hotel, East Orange. The Iccted ^fan of the Year in recognition of his many principal speaker was HARVEY G. FOSTER, *39, contributions to the welfare of tlie needy of tlie past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Assoda-City of New Orleans in his capacity as head of tion and presently special agent in charge of tlic Catholic Charities. .New Jersey office of the FBI. JOHN F. KELLY The new Officers elected and installed were: was cliairman. Tlie club recently gave $2400 to the PETER L. HILBERT, President; J.VMES E. University for the scliolarship fund. SMITH, Vice-President; ED .McCARTHY, Secre­
tar>--Treasurcr. 
New Jersey 
About three hundred Alumni from the state at­Tile evening was climxxcd by an inspiring talk tended Universal Notre Dame Night on Alonday delivered by REV. ALFRED F. MENDEZ, C.S.C., 

evening, April 18th at the Meadowbrook, Cedar Director of Placement of the University. 

Grove, New Jersey. The affair was a fine success due to the efforts of Co-Chairmcn ED VON —BILL JOHNSTON, '44, Outgoing President. HOENE, »39, and BOB JOYCE, '50. Our honored guest from the Campus **"as DEAX LA\VRENCE BALDINGER of the College of Science who spoke 
New York City 
on the academic and cultural growtli of the Univer­sity. The Dean also amplified on the tremendous On Dec. 5, 1954, we held our Universal Notre jphysical development in recent years at Notre 
Dame Communion breakfast at tlie Hotel Biltmorc -A • 
Dame, including Iiis own College of Science^ but following 9 o'clock Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral. 

Terry Brennan was principal speaker at Chamber of Commerce dinner in St. Paul, Minn. l-eft to right: Frank M. Devaney, toastmaster, Brennan, and Frank G. Mayer, of the Twin Cities ND Alumni Club. 
NEW ORLEANS—The cluVs annual student luncheon was held at Arnaud's Restaurant with Club President Johnston in charge. 
TJie surprise speaker was our own FATHER HES­BURGH. Needless to say he was most enthusiaslic­ally received. The principal speakers were the Rev. 
•f^ Cosmos Shaughnessy of tlic Fassionlst Fathers and 
{' ' Retreat Director for their Monastcr>' here in N. Y.; Rev. John J. Corridcn, S.J., better known as tlic "Waterfront Priest,'* whose material, incidentally, made up most of tlie background for the picture "Waterfront"; and Francis W. H. Adams, Police Commissioner of the city of New York. 
In Januar>* tlic Club held its annual election meeting and the retiring president, JIM CLYNES, handed the gavel over to the newly elected presi­dent, JOHN J. DUFFY, class of '44. In addition to John t)ie folIo^v•ing members were elected to office for the year 1955: Executive Vice-President, James Clynes; Vice-Presidents NICK SMITH, JACK HOYT, BILL DURKIN, and BILL FALLON; Treasurer, BOB RE/\LE; Asrfstant Treasurer, JIM SLATTERY; SecrcCar>-, TONY E.ARLEY; and ^As­sistant Secretary, GEORGE OLVANV, A rising 
, ^-ote of thanks was given to tlie retiring president, .4^ Jim Clynes, for the excellent job he accomplished " during his term. Nfarch was the month of our annual retreat. Forty-five Notre Dame men and their friends spent the weekend of March II througli 13 at the Passion­ist Retreat House in Jamaica, Long Island. These are truly wonderful weekends and in keeping u'ith the best traditions of Notre Dame. AVe have alwa>-s found the Passionist Fathers extremely capable, as well as inspiring, in their handling of tliese Lay retreats. . . . HERB GIORGIO, class of '32, and former President of tlic Club clialrmanned this function. 
Monday, April 18, was the date for our Celebra­tion of UND Night. . . . The beautiful, oak pan­eled tap room of Ruppcrt's Brewery here in New-York was the scetie of tliis year's exciting evening. And an exciting evening it was. Under the master 
t^hand of Chairman HARRY W.ALTERS the more 
* than 200 alumni and their guests were entertained by such sport greats as Leo Durocher of the N. Y. Giants, Red Barber, nationally famous sportscaster of the N. Y. Yankees, Joe Gagliardl, former Metro­politan Amateur Golf cliampion and holder of many other national titles. . . . Joe is also the father of a current Notre Dame student; Eddie MoyJan, nationally prominent tennis player; George East­ment, track coach of Manhattan College, the pres­ent IC4A champions. The highlight of the evening however, was a talk by FATHER EDMUND JOYCE, Executive Vice-President of the Um"ver5it>­who so graciously consented to be u'ith us even though it meant a long flight in from Texas. The entire membership of our club is extremely grateful to Father Joyce for his generosity in coming and for his most entertaining and informative talk on a subject so near to the hearts of all present, Notre 
L^Dame. . . . The guests were served free beer and ' sandwiclies. The beer was a gift of the Ruppcrt 
Brc(ving Company and all present not n'ishing to 
ofTend their hosts sampled ever>' round. Dues-paid 
members were admitted free and a nominal guest 
fee »*as charged non-dues paid members and guests. 
It was a great evening full of good cheer, good 
friends and good talk about that wonderful time in 
the lives of each one of us. 
On May 6 we'll hold our annual May dance dedicated to Notre Dame women; a real night for the ladies. This year's dance will be held in the grand ballroom of the Garden City Hotel, Garden City, Long Island. Music will be supplied bv FR.\NCIS "BUGS" WALTHERS orchestra. "Bugs" is an alumnus and active member in tlie club. AL LESMEZ, class of '45, is this year's chairman ably assisted by JIM SHERIDAN, '47. At pres­ent, plans are almost complete and Al tells me that the early response to his first announcement indi­cates a record turnout on the sLxth. 
TTic night of June 28 may prove to be one o[ the high points in this year's club activities. The annual BulTetSuppcr and Baseball Night at Ebbets Field is scheduled for this evening but the big news is the game, because Brooklyn will oppose its arch enemy, liic New York Giants. These series arc usually alwa^-s sold out months in ad\'ance and most ball clubs are reluctant to set aside a block of tickets to any group for a game of this interest. It's a real accomplishment for Chairman GEORGE OLVANY and his co-worker, BUD MUL\^Y, to obtain this night for the Club outing. 
On the Friday preceding Lactare Sunday the Club donated two sets of Lactare Vestments to deserv­ing parishes in the Metropolitan Area. For the Diocese of New York the Committee selected Old St. Peters in Barclay Street, the cliurdi in which FATHER SORIN said his first ^fass In the United States. Msgr. Middleton, pastor of St. Peter's, was deeply gratefuj for the gUt, For tltc Diocese ot Brooklyn, the club selected the new chapel at In­ternational Airport, IdlewIId, Queens, still under construction as the recipient. It was a most fitting selection In that the new chapel \nll be dedicated to Our Lady under the magnificent title of "Our Lady of the Skies." The Club received a beautiful and most gratifying letter from Father Missback, the future pastor of this new parish. . . . Abo, F.VTHER EDMUND HAMMER, Club Chaplain and /Vlumnus, said a memorial Mass commemorat­ing the death of the late KNUTE ROCKNE on Thursday, March 31, In the Lady chapel of St. Patrick's Cathedral. Members of the Club at­tended in a body, 
—TONY EARLEY, JR., Secj-. 

Northern California 
RICHARD BOWES, Associate director of the Notre Dame public relations department, w*as prin­cipal speaker at the club's UND Night dinner on .April 11 at the St. Francis Hotel. 
North Florida 
The high point of the year's activities to datiT was reached on May 4, when the North Florid* club marked its 1955 fAservance of Universal Notre" Dame Night. JOE HARTZER, '40, and FRED* (FRITZ) BAUMER, *22, wxrc committee co-chalr-­men for the event. An enthusiastic group of ap-' proximately sixty alumm and their guests gathered' at Jacksonviile's Green Turtle Restaurant (or * cocktail and dinner party at which Club President FRED RAHAIM, '31, acted as master of ceremonies^ Ouest speaker from the Unlversitv was Father JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., who was accom­panied by JIM FRICK. 
Recent club activities have included monthly 
business meetings at w-hlch reports were made and 
Ideas exchanged on the various coming. events. 
Chief topic for discussion to date has been the pro­
posed club-sponsored excursion trip to Miami on 
October 7-8 for the Notre Dame-University of Miami 
game. It Is anticipated that some 500 friends of 
the University will make the two-day trip. 
Reports of a truly ^vonderlul time have been recei\*ed from those members who were able to make the trip to the famous Sea Ranch in Fort Lauder­dale for the First Statewide Alumni Con%-ention in April. 
In an attempt at increasing Interest in Notre Dame among local Catholic high school students, DICK BRODEUR, '50, once again this year ex­hibited and commented upon sc^'eral Football High­lights and campus actmty movies to the boys' gym classes at Bishop Kenny High School. Dick reports that his efforts received a very exthusiastlc re­
sponse. The North Florida Alumni Club instituted its 1955 actiWtles with an organizational and business meeting at the Roosevelt Hotel In Jacksonville on January 12, 1955. Several members traveled from St. Augustine, Florida, to attend. The incumbent slate of officers, headed by Presi­dent FRED RAHAIM, '31, was condnued in office for another year. Committees were appointed to or­ganize the year's activities, which will feature an October excursion trip to Miami for the Irish-University of Miami football game, la December, club members' attended a teIe\'ision part>'-smoker to witness the nationu-ide telecast of the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist game. An earlier meeting, attended by alumni, their ^%ive3 and guests, featured the appearance of All­/American "TED " TtVOAfEY and a sneak preview of a popular movie. —BILL KIRCHNER, *5l 
Ohio Valley 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the Notre Dame club of the Ohio Valley at a dinner 
Notre Dame Mumnus, May-June, 1955 21 

mcetini; of club members, students, and guests at the Cricket Club in Wheeling, W. Va., on Thurs­day, April U. DR. LEO O'DONNELL, Pittsburgh, president of the ND Alumni association, gave an excellent talk as guest speaker. 
A delightful dinner was served after whicli "Foot­ball Highlights of 1954" were shown on motion pictures whicli turned out to be immensely popular with ever>-one in attendance. FoUouing that, a *'Man-of-the-Year" scroll was aw-ardcd to an Ohio Valley man by the club, and a speech was given by a prominent Catholic 
TTic meeting ended %nth a scries of informal discussions among members al>out plans for the future. 
Committee in charge of Universal Notre Dame Xlsht was AMLLIAM YAEGER, chairman, JAMES HARANZO, ROBERT GRIFFITH, RUSSELL RICKUS, ROBERT SIXaWICH, EDMUND SARGUS, GEORGE SARGUS. 
—BOB SINCAVICH 

Peoria 
BOB ERVIX, business director of Lobund Insti­tute at Notre Dame, was principal speaker at the club's UND Xight party on April 19. 
Philadelphia 
TERRY BREXNAX was principal speaker at the Philadclpliia Club's USD Xirfit partj-.on April 24. Chairmanncd by WALTER GROTHAUS, the meet­ing was held at the Cherry* Hill Inn. 
The officers for 1955 rcccntlv- elected are as fol­lows: president, BILL BURNS, \-ice-presidcnt, TY DEMPSEY: secretary, JOHN MOORHEAD; treas­urer. JOHN" NEESON, JR. The follmrihg- board members were elected for two years: Neeson, Dcmpsey, Moorhead, Grothaus, JOE CATTIE. Bc»3rd mt-mhcrs ejected tnr one vear are: Bums. CHARLIE COXLEY, JOE MAHONEY, WALT RIDLEY and JOHN VOIT. 
Pittsburgh 
Tl)c club held its annual family Communion Breakfast on Fcbruarv- 27. The Mass was cele­brated by Bishop Coleman F. Carroll, Auxiliary Bishop of Pittsburgh and breakfast was served in the Sacred Heart school. DAN CULLINAN ^^•as chairman of the brcakfast-
ED "MOOSE" KR^XUSE was an honored guest from (lie campus an UND night while Dr. Clar­ence Walton, dean, school of busincs.'i administra­tion. Duquesnc University', gave the address. LEO VOGEL. SR. acted as toastmaster and Father \'TNCEN'T BRENN.AN was awarded the Notre Dame Man of the Year citation. TOM GILLESPIE was chairman of the VND Night banquet. 
Tlic club entertained both the Notre Dame and Pitt debating teams at a luncheon recently when the Xrish debaters were in Pittsburgh. 
—TOM GILLESPIE. 

Phoenix 
Universal Notre Dame Night in Phoenbc was one of the largest and most successful in our Club's histor>'. Social hour and dinner was held in the Corral Room of the Hotel ^Vestward Ho. 
F.\THER IHCSBURGH, the guest of honor, was introduced by BOB KENDALL, toastmaster, Ever>'­one enjoyed Father Hesburgh's first ^isit with our club and hope he will be back in the near future. ALBERT A. FICKS, JR., received the Man-of-the-Vcar award. 
Our thanks to GENE HOESCHLER and com­mittee for SUCIJ a ivdl-planned afTair. 
TTie Notre Dame Club of Phoenix celebrated Notre Dame Communion Sunday by Mass and Com­munion at Saint Gregory's Church. Following, all members present were guests of AL FICKS, JR. at the Phoenix Country Club for breakfast. 
On December 29, the Notre Dame Men and Wives Clubs celebrated the holiday season with a dinner party at the Green Gables Inn. Mrs. JOE HORRTGAN and PAUL RIST were in charge for this gala e\-ent. 
—JOHN J. SCHOUTEN, Secy. 


22 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-Juntt 2955 
Rhode Island 
Tlie reactivated alumni club of Rhode Island held its first meeting of the year on February' 8 at Oates Restaurant in Pro\*idence. Twenty-five members attended. Tltc dinner was followed by a business meeting at whicli plans for the observance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night were discussed. It was agreed to hold tlic observance in conjunction with the concert to be given by the Notre Dame Glee Club on April 14. JOHN AfcLAUGHLLV and AL GRZEBIEN were named co-chairmen of tlic affair. 
Directors elected were BERNIE LYNCH, ROB­ERT O'H.WER, PHILIP TOOLE, RAYMOND lANNUCILLO, JOHN McL.\UGHLIN and JULES GOLDSTEIN. Officers for this year arc JIM MURPH\', president; JOSEPH L. McDONALD, JR., \^ct-p^csidcnt; JOE DOORLEY, secretary; and PAUL HOEFFLER, treasurer. Morics of Uic 1954 Notre Dame-North Carolina game were shown. 
On Tliursday evening, April 14, the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Rhode Island held their obscr\'ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night. The club was fortunate to have the Notre Dame Glee Club in Rhode Island for a concert and combined their ob­servance u-ith the concert. A pre-concert part>* wns held at whicli approximately 150 people were present. Tlie Glee Club performed for a sellout crowd of 1400 people. Lt. Governor JOHN S. McKIERNAN welcomed the Glee Club to Rhode Island. JULES GOLDSTEIN, '95, who is making plans to attend his 60-year reunion this June, was presented a scroll by President JIM MURPHY. Jules had been selected as Rhode Island's Notre Dame Man of tlic Year. The Glee Club was enter­tained after the concert at a party at which girls from Salve Regina College, Newport, R. I., were hostesses. Tlie net proceeds of the aJTair were do­natd to the Sisters of Mercy who generously do­nated their time and one of their scliool auditoriums for the concert. Many thanks are due the co­cliairmen and their committee for making the affair sucfi a success. 
—JI.M MURPHY, President 

Rockford 
The annual meeting was held February 16 at the University Club of Rockford. The purpose of the meeting was to transact any business to come before tlie organization and the election of new officer? who are: President, J. J. "JACK" AVAHL, '43; \^ce-Presidcnts, JOHN J. McKINSTR^V, *50, and THOMAS KEEGAN, '30; Sccrctarv, ROBERT J. 
DORAN, '26; Treasurer, HAROLD J. O'CON­NOR, '32. ROBERT F. DOYLE, *38, and HAR­OLD J .O'CONNOR, '32, were re-elected to suc­ceed themselves as directors and JOHN J. McKIN-STRA, *50, was elected to tlie board replacing , FRANK SWEENEY, '19. 1 
The next aJTair was held March 16 at the Lom­bard! Club, a fish fr^', and ^vas attended by ap­proximately 160 people. The highlights of '54 were shown. BOB DOYLE, *38, and AL OVRROLL, '22, were in charge of this very successful affair. 
We were all saddened by the death of our treas­urer, H/VROLD J. "RED" O'CONNOR, class of '32, March 29. Red was certainly one of the most popular Notre Dame men in our organization and community and played no small part in the growth and success of our new Club. He will be sorely missed by all. 
On Wednesday night, April 20, in the Grand Ballroom of the Faust Hotel we held our second observance of Annual Universal Notre Dame ^ight. It was an outstanding success with approximately 250 people in attendance. FR/\NK SWEENEY, '15, ( was general diairman of the event and the toast-' master was DR. EUGENE T. LEONARD, '40. Representing the University at this affair was Father J/VMES DOLL, C.S.C., who delivered a very informative and well-received talk. Also fea­tured was Mr. L. L. Cunningham, president of the Business Institute of Milwaukee, and a former director of physical education at the University under Rockne. He gave a very stirring and inspira­tional talk. Our *'Man of the Year" award went to our chaplain, the MOST REV. lUYMOND P. HILLINCER, Bishop of Rockford, ivhosc tremen­dous efforts and cooperation were instrumental in the success of our organization. Bishop Hillinger was unable to attend because of illness, and his award was accepted for him by Msgr. Louis J. Franey, cliancellor of Rockford diocese. 
The future plans of our Club at this present 
..-1 

wTiting consist of our second annual "Tearing of the Greens" golf stag to be held Thursday, July 7, at the Forest Hills Countr>- Club here in Rockford, and August 4 has bccen tentatively selected as the date for our baseball trip and visit to the Miller Brewery in Milwaukee. More about these later. 
—JAMES H. DUNN, JR. 

Saginaw 
The Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club news is as follows: 
1. Our annual Rockne Communion Breakfast was held at 8:30 a.m. at St. Helen's Church in 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA—The dub's annual Communion Breakfast ^vas ^cll­attcnded by alumni and their guests. 
Sagma\%*. Appro-ximately 85 persons were prcse/it tncludins members and their families. 
2.
 The Saginaw Valley Kotre Dame Club Foot­ball Trophy was presented this year to St. Andrew Scliool of Saginaw at their Football Banquet held April 17, 1955, at the St. Andrew Auditorium. 

3.
 Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated on tlie 18th of April at the Rex Restaurant in Bay City. There were 30 members present. The Notre Dame Football highlights of 1954 film was thor­oughly enjoyed by ail. THO.XJAS CARROLL was elected as the new club president. 

4.
 The club is now planning our annual spring fUnncr dance for members and their wives to be ]icld in ^fay. 


—R. J. HENDRICK 

San Antonio 
The club elected new officers at its last meeting. Taking over as of Marcli 1 arc: President, THO.MAS ROYER; Vice-President, H.\ROLD TYNAN; Sccrctar>-Treasurcr, ALFRED CIC­CHESE; Directors, RxVLPH T. STRUMS, Chair­man, ED J. COLLINS, WILLL\.M LAMM, C. B. 
WILHEL^^Y. The club recently donated §300 to the Universit>­for an unrestricted gift. JIM ARMSTRONG, alumni 5ccrctar>-, was the principal speaker at the club's UND Night cele­bration in April. 
San Diego 
G. R. BILL, *29, was elected president of the Notre Dame Club of San Diego for the next year at a business meeting held in tlie home of retiring 
— president JOHN J. McCLAREN, '29. on Feb. 21. Bill was Wce-presidcnt last year. 
JOHN B. SULLIV/\N, '48, a former president of the Green Bay, \^. , club, was elected vice-president. Other oHicers elected were: HARRY MONAHAN, '50, secretary; RICHARD MARTIN, '45, treasurer. The RT. REV. MSGR. FRANCIS 
C. O'lT', pastor of Blessed Sacrament parish, waged a vigorous and successful unopposed campaign for reelection as cliaplain. 
"Heaven help me if another Notre Dame priest moves into town," the exhausted candidate remarked after being unanimously s^vcpt back into ofHce. 
PHILIP MARTIN, JR., '45, was elected to the board of directors to serve with the new officers and the retiring president. 
RICHARD J. BOWES of tltc University's public relations department and the highlight film of the 
.A* 
WICHITA—Richard J. Bowes, '38 (center), of the ND Public Rdations staff, addressed the alumni at a recent club meeting. Others in picture are Dr. Bernard Crowley, '28 (left), and Geoi^c Schwarz, '25. 
1954 football season were the main attractions at a St. Patrick's Day meeting. The new president has appointed McClaren di­rector of special events for the coming year. —IL\RRY MONAHAN 
Schenectady 
Officers elected for the coming year are as follows: JOHN B. PHILLIPS, M.D., '37. reelected president; ^\'ILLL\M G. LEONARD, '49, reelected vice-president; RAYMOND ZASADA, '50, reelected secretary; DANIEL BARLOW, '49, elected treas­urer. Upon adjournment of the meeting the usual reminiscing followed in the K. of C. bar. 
Our annual UND night meeting wja held at the 
NEW YORK CITY—Rt Rev. Msgr. John S. Middleton, P.A., pastor of St. Peter's Church, New York City, accepting a set of Laetare Vestments donated by the Notre Dame Club tyi Ne^v York. Others are from left to right: George L, Olvany; Anthony F. Earley, Jr., Secretary; Club President John J. Duffy, and John A. Hoyt, Jr. 
Mohawk GoU Club here in Schenectady. 
It was a very well organized and conducted affair under the chairmanship of DICK WALSH, class of '31, who also performed a creditable job as toastmastcr. FATHER ALBERT HEINZER, C.S.C., our local ND priest and chaplain of the club, opened the affair with grace before meals. An excellent chicken dinner was the menu for everyone. 
The main portion of the program got underway ^rith an introduction of the officers, followed by 
an introduction 'ol the coaumttet: members. We 
went immediately to the man of the year atvard, which was presented by JOHN MEEHAN, class of '24, award chairman, to the Very Reverend John J. Finn, dean of Schenectady clergy. Father Fina has contributed greatly to reh'gio"*. civic, and Notre Dame activities in the Schenectady area. It was a unanimous delusion that he be the re­cipient. Following Father Finn's acceptance, the highlight of the evening was the talk by FATHER JOHN ^VALSH, as you know, from the school of Arts and Letters. The nucleus of his talk concerned a breakdown of the three loyalties of all ND men, namely loy^ty to principles, persons, and processes. He briefly touched on the present-day campus and its many changes. His sincere approach mixed with his ready Irish smile and clever uitticism tabbed him as one of the best speakers the campus has sent us, and we have been honored with some of the best. 
—TOM HOWLEY, '49 

Southwest. Connecticut 
Universal Notre Dame Night vfas celebrated by our Club on Sunday, April 17, at the Waverly Inn in Cheshire, Coon. Again this year, we had a statewide affair with the New Haven Club,^ Nauga­tuck Valley and the Hartford Clubs. JOHN JOR­DAN, who is the varsity basketball coach at the University, was guest speaker. A cocktail hour was held from 4 to 5 p.m. and dinner vfzs at 5:13. 
—BILL SfULRENAN, President. 

South Jersey 
The South Jersey Club celebrated a new, j<nnt observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in conjunction with the neighboring Philadelphia Club on April 24 at the fabulous Cherry Hill Inn, o» the outskirts of Camden. A gay cocktail party preceded the dinner-dance at which Head Coadi 
Notre.Dame Atumnus, Afayjune, 1955 33 

man, fonner €a>ach at Washington University; and Justin Fahcrty of tlic St. Louis Post-Dispatch. The committee this vear was headed bv GEORGE CO.\\% nXSK DAHM and DON DOHEXY. : —H. L. DAHM, JR. fi 
TRI-CITIES—^Those attending alumni-studcnt meeting in Davenport included: front row (left to right): Jim Corj*n, Mike Under^vood, Tom Arnold. Tom Kristopcit, Richard Swift, 
R. Kelly, Roger Nolan, Jr., John Nolan; middle row (left to right): Ralph Coryn, E. Un­
derwood, Jerry Arnold, B. Kristopcit, R. Swift, Sr., R. Kelly, R. Nolan, Sr.; back row (left to right): R. Eckland, Tom Garside. 
TERRY BRENNAN was the principal speaker. Over 250 atucini and friends enjoyed the excellent cuisine and hospitality of the Cherry* Hill Inn. Tlic Soutli Jersey Club was pleased to participate with the Philadelphia Club in iu traditionally fine ob­st-rvance of l)ie occasion. 
Included in tlie program of the evening was tlic installation of the following club officers for the coming year: President, FRANK E. VITTORI, M9; Vice-President, THOMAS R. ROURKE, '42; Sec­retary-Treasurer, MATT J. CA.\IPANELLA, ?49. 
On March 19, the Club gathered at Irish Jack Murphy's for a delayed, festive St. Patrick's Day donnybrook. An atmosphere of Old Erin was pro­vided by Kelly-Green derbies and bonnets for mem­bers and \Wves, Jrisli ballads on records and dec­orations complete from shamrock to shillelagh. 
—JAMES A. WEBB 

St. Joseph Valley 
TJic 24lh annual Communion breakfast, observing the death of KNUTE ROCKXE, was held Sunday, Marcli 27. The Mass was said in Dillon Hall Chapel with the REV. VINCENT THIL.\L\N, C.S.C., officiating. Breakfast was served to 100 members and guests in the Faculty Dining Room with HEARTLEY "HUNK" ANDERSON as main speaker. TERRY BRENN.VN and MOOSE KR/\USE also spoke briefly. After llic breakfast, wreaths 
•were laid on the graves of Rockne, GEORGE KEOGAN and JOHN NICHOLSO.V at Highland Cemetery. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held in the Morris Inn on April 18 with 120 members and guests in attendance. Mr. Bernard Bartli, General Manager of AVNDU-T\', presented a highly inter­esting and informative talk on tlie purposes and policies of this newest addition to tlie University. President JOSEPH HANN/\N reviewed Uie club activities for tJie year and expressed appreciation to the following men for tlieir efforts in behalf of the club: J. FRANK MILES, BOB LEHMAN, HARRY KOEHLER and BILL GIBBONS for the Old Timers Game; DICK CODY, BILL MEEHAN and JACK SCHUMACHER for the June Golf Out­ing; FRAN MESSICK, diairman, JOE DOYLE, DON FISHER, PAUL FERGUS, PAUL BOEHM and CHET GRi\N"r for the Tuesday Quarterback Luncheons; BOB LEHNL\N and BILL GIBBONS, co-diairmcn, H. T. WAFTE, JOHN CACKLEY, RUDY GOEPFRICH and DICK CLEARY on the Football Testimonial Banquet; and DON FISHER, clialrman of the Rockne Memorial Mass and Break­fast. The rttiring dir«:ton, EDH'ARD KRAUSE, DAN YOUNGERMAN and DEVERE PLUNKETT were thanked for their capable assistance fts were the other directors. 

24 NotTt Damt Alumnux, Mmfjmu*, 2955 
Plans are being formulated for the Annual Old Timers Game on Saturday, May 14. "niis year's game will be played at Scliool Field in South Bend' as the stadium turf is undergoing a complete re-sodding. All proceeds from this game are used for the Club's Scholarship Program in which students from this area participate. 
—JERRY HICKEY 

St. Louis 
Universal Notre Dame night in St. Louts was observed by a stag dinner held at the University-Club Monday, April 18. 
Due to an excellent ad\*ancc publicity program a good crowd appeared to enjoy a steak dinner and hear a vcr>* fine commenlarv' on Notre Dome by Its liead football coacli, TERRY BREXN.-VN. 
Numbered among the many guests and sports writers who attended were Father Rcinert, S.J., President of St. Louis Universit>'; Bishop Byrne, representing the Archdiocese of St. Louis; Carl Snavely, of AVashington Universitx'; James Conzcl-
Terre Haute 
The Terre Haute club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner-meeting at fiohannon's on Monday, .April 18. It was a stag party with no solicitation of funds and no speeches. 
Tri-Cities 
Tlie Tri-CIties Club completed a ver\* successful year under the presJdenc>- of BILL BERNBROCK. The year ended officially with a Family Corporate Communion Breakfast on .-\pril 17 at Alleman High School in Rock Island. TOM E.MMA and BILL j' LAFF/\N were co-chairmen. Father JAMES DOLL, ^ CS.C , of the University, was guest speaker and celebrated Mass for the group of approximately 100 including the families of the members. Tlic following officers were unanimouslv elected for the coming season: GEORGE VANDER VENNET, president; CILVRLES J. KING, vice-president; and 
R. A. BUSH, secretary-treasurer. Board members arc W. Bernbrock, A. WADE, A. ERSKINE and 
D. KEELER. 
On December 29 approximately 20 students and their fathers were guests of the club for luncJieon at the Blackhawk Hotel. ROGER NOL.V.\, SR., was fJiairman. Mr. E. Underwood, father of Mike Underwood, represented the fathers and Roger Nolan, Jr., spoke in behalf of the students. 
On December 5 our ^Icn*s Annual Corporate Communion Breakfx<it was held at the Blackhawk Hotel. CHARLES KING was chairman. ^ ' 
On ^farclI 17 the Notre Dame Wives group ran a vcrj* cnjo>'abIc and successful St. Patrick's Day Dance for club members and their friends at the Blackhawk Hotel. The party was a t>'pical Irish success and a good time was had by all. ^fRS. THO.MAS EMMA and MRS. WILLIAM LAFFAN were in charge of arrangements. 
Tulsa 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Tulsa celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on Monday, April 18, by holding its Fourth Annual Ladies Night Dinner under the cliaimianship of ROBERT D. SHEE­HAN, \^c<^-Prcsident of the Club. Guest speaker was JAMES E. McCARTHY, Dean of the College of Commerce of the University of Notre Dame.-^ ^ Toastmastcr for the evening was PAT MxVLLOY. Approximately 200 members, wives, and guests at­tended the afTaJr. The Man-of-ihe-Ycar award was 
Bernard J. Cullen, Jr., '38, delivering a lecture on his Afarian paintings which were displayed in the International Exhibition of Marian Art, Rome, Italy. The exhibition was held in con­jimction with the Mariologics-Marian Congress. Bernard's paintings were the only pieces done since 1800 which were accepted for the show. All others were of the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. The artist took six paintings to the exhibition and all were accepted. 
A new advisory committee for Notre Dame's Correctional Administration Program, consist­ing of prominent leaders in criminology is as follows: (seated, left to right), Russell Oswald, director of corrections. State of Wisconsin; Dr. Frank FlvTin, Univ. of Chicago. Standing, (left to right): John Martin, program director at Notre Dame; Dr. J. P. ShaJIoo, Univ. of Pennsylvania; and Hugh P. O'Brien, chairman of the board of corrections. State of Indiana. A fifth member. Parole Commissioner Thomas McHugh of New York was unable to attend. 
presented to JOHN G. MADDEN for the excel­lent work he did as chairman of the football train to the ND-S.^f.U. game lost fall. 
TIic Notre Dame basketball coaching stafT and others were guests of the Club at a luncheon on February 19, preceding the Notre Danie-Univ. of Tulsa basketball game, .-\mong the guests from South Bend were JOHNNY JORDAN, head coach, FATHER L,U<E, C.S.C., HERB JONES, BILL E/\RLEY, CHARLIE GVLLiVHAN, and FRANK CROSIER. Representatives of the University- of Tulsa, the local press, and radio and television stations were also present. Following the game, the members of the Notre Dame basketball team were guests of the Club at a dinner and informal get-together at tlie Tulsa Catholic Community Center. 
—R. F. SHEEHAN, Sccj-.-Treas. 

Twin Cities 
With TERRY BRENN.VN as the cliicf attraction, the St. Paul Chamber of Commerce annual dinner drew more than 500 men and women guests, all eager to sec and hear Notre Dame's youthful head football coach. More than 100 Notre Dame alumni from the Twin Cities area were among the crowd whicli greeted Brennan on January 19 at Hotel St. Paul. 
Albert R. Shicly, uncle of three ND grads—Joe, Jim and Vincc—presided over tlie dinner as presi­dent of the Chamber. Frank M. Devaney, general manager of WMIN-TV, St. Paul, was toastmaster. Ike Armstrong, athletic director of the Umversit>' of Minnesota, was at the head table. Former Irish grid stars FR.\NK MAYER, PAtH- aVSTNER and FRANK BIAGI were among the many athletes and sports-lovers at the dinner. Coaclies from all of the smaller colleges in the area were guestr of the Chamber as were many high school coaches from the Twin Cities. 
Highlights ol the 1954-season were shown at the conclusion of the talks. —RAY THIBODEAU 
Wabash Valley 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held on April II and featured BILL E.ARLEY, assistant Notre Dame football coach, as principal speaker. 
Our first Annual Christmas Dinner-Dance proved to be very successful. Held Jointly with the St. Mar/s College Alumni Club, wc had a turnout of over a hundred and everyone seemed enthusiastic about continuing this affair in the years ahead. 

On January 16 wc held our election of officers for' the comins year. By unanimous vote the fol­lowing officers were elected: RAY S^VANSON, CrawfordsviUe, President; TED BUMBLEBORG, Lafayette, Vice-President; BILL RYAN, Lafayette, Secretary; BILL RUXGE, CrawfordsviUe, Treas­urer. 
—DICK MacDONALD 

Washington, D. C. 
Following is a report of the activities of the Notre Dame Club of ;Vashington, D. C , which have taken place since my last report to the ALUMNUS November 26, 19>t: 
The Club's Annual Christmas Dance was held on December 28, 1954, at the Sheraton-Carlton Hotel, under the chainnanship of .ANDY AUTH, '34. The dance was well attended by both students and alumni members and, all-in-all, was a very suc­cessful party. Assisting Andy with the preparations were TOM CLEARY, '48, TOM LENNAN, '49, JIM \\'ELCH, '53, and GEORGE HOWARD, JR., '38. Andy ^vas also fortunate in enlisting the serv­ices of GAY HAAS, JR. and NEIL O'BRYAN, students on the campus of the University, and WALTER MURPHY, '53. 
On Monday, February 21, 1955, under the chair­manship of BOB SCHELLENBERG, '48, the Club held, for the first time, a Mardi Gras party. This party and dance was held in the gaily decorated Carlton Room of the Sheraton-Carltoa Hotel. To make the evening a festive one. Bob and his com­mittee had favors for all in attendance. Assisting Bob Schellenberg in making this affair a success were WALTER MURPHY, '53, CHARLIE KREBS, '49, and BILL HOPKE. '50. 
On Sunday, March 27, 1955, the Club held its annual "family" Communion Breakfast. Mass was celebrated by REVEREND A. J. NEFF, CS.a , Club Chaplain, in the Chapel of the Franciscan Monastery on the grounds of the Catholic Univer­sity of America. Breakfast followed in Pilgrimage Hall at the Monastery. The principal speaker was the Honorable Charles Fahy, Judge of the U. S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Judge Fahy \tas also former Legal Advisor to the Secretary of State, member of the American Dde­gation to the United Nations, and former Solicitor General of the United States. Judge Fahy spoke on '*Peace" within the Catholic concept and the recent Papal Announcement on coexistence. His talk was most timely and u:as enjoyed by all pres­ent. Some ninety persons, which included wives and children of Club members, attended mass and breakfast. The Club was honored by the presence of Judge Edward M. Curran of the United States 
NEW YORK CITV — Father Hesfaurgh was a surprise speaker at ihe Xew York City Com­munion Breakfast. Others on the club program included: Rev. Cosmas Shaughncssy, Rev. John 
J. Corridcn, S.J., better known as the "Waterfront Priest," and Francis W. H. Adams, police commissioner of NYC. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 25 
 t  •* 
­( 

Deans of more than one-hundred Catholic liberal arts colleges discussed curriculum problems at a conference sponsored by the University of Notre Dame, March 2-4, Among those on the program were (left to right) Rev. George Garrelts, Newman Club chaplain, University of Minnesota; Rev. Charles Shecdy, CS.C, dean of Notre Damc*s College of Arts and Let­ters; Rev. James M. Campbell, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences', Catholic University of America; Sister Anastasia, CS.C, dean of St. MaryV College, Notre Dame, Ind.; Rev. Joseph M. Marique, S.J., professor of classics, Holy Cross College; and Brother Casimir Gabriel, F^.C, Afanhattan College. 
Dbtrict Court for the Dblrict of Columbia and an honorarj* member of the WashingtoQ Club,, and Mr. Leo Rover, the District Atloracy for the Dis­trict of Columbia. Credit for the success of this breakfast goes lo GERARD J. O'BRIEN, JR.. M9, >**ho was chairman of the aflfair. 
On Monday, April 18, 1955, the Chib held its Annual Universal Notre Dame Night celebration. As has been the practice for the past few years, the Club members attended a cocktail party-dinner in the Carlton Room of the Sheraton-Carl ton Hotel. We were honored to have witli us Father THEO­DORE HESBURGH, who spoke briefly to the members and guests present. The principal speaker of the evening was the Honorable James P. Mitchell, Secrctarv- of Labor. Mr. Mitchell spoke on the sub­ject of the specialized labor force coming from the American colleges and universities today. GAY­LORD P. HAAS, Chairman of the Board of Gov­ernors of the Washington Club, presented VALEN­TINE B. DEALE, the retiring president, ^^ith a scroll in appreciation of his efforts and contribu­tions to the Club during his administration. Tlie following oflicers, who were elected for the 1955-56 Club year at a meeting on March 17, 1955, were inducted into office following the prindpal speech of the evening: 
HOWARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR., President; WALTER J. SHORT, Vice-President; JAMES P. O'LAUGHLIN, Secretar>-; WALTER J. MURPHY, Treasurer. Both Valentine B. Dealc and TIGHE E. WOODS were elected to the Board of Governors for a three-year term, replacing PAUL C. TULLY and ^V- D. KAVAN.\UGH, whose terms expired this year. 
The Chairman of tlie Committee on Arrange­ments for UND Night was THO.MAS MARKEY, '29. Assisting him as members of his Committee were DR. WILLIAM PRENDERGAST, THO.MAS CARNEY, '27, and AVALTER HAGEN. JR., *40. 
Tlie Washington Club was pleased to learn that JOHNNY LATTNER and MENIL MAVRAIDES are currently stationed at Boiling Air Force Base and have become members of this Club. 
Incidentally, for the information of Alumni who may be in Washington, lhe>' may reach the Notre Dame Club by calling RE 7-0613. 
—HOWARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR. 


26 Notre Dante Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
West Virginia 
The Notre Dame Club of West Virginia was rc­\-ived at a meeting held Marcli 16, 1933. Definite plans were dra\vn up for the year: 
Universal Notre Dam^ Night—^April 27, 1955. Picnic to introduce entering freshmen and their 
parents—August 20, 1955. TV Football Party on day of tele\ised ND game. Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday—De­
cember 4, 1953. Holiday Cocktail party—December 28, 1955. A "better late than never" celebration of Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night was held at Humphrey's Restaurant in Charleston on Wednesday, April 27. Tlie sixty present took time out for a short talk by DR. GENE RYAN and voiced their approval when HUGH LODER was named "Man of the Year." 
—CORNELIUS DESMOND 

Western Washington 
Notre Dame alumni in tlie Western Washington Club area attended a recent spring smoker which was held at B. J. LENOUE'S Rathskeller and fea­turcd WILLIAM H. "BUD" KERR, '40, Univcr­sity of Washington assistant coach, as the principal speaker. JOSEPH G. LOTTA ser\ed as chairman. 
More than 100 members of the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington gathered at the Norselandcr Restaurant in Seattle to obscr\'c Universal Notre Dame Night on April 18. 
JOHN CACKLEY, editor of the ALUMNUS, was the principal speaker and honored guests in­cluded Allan Pomeroy, Mayor of Seattle, and Dr. Henry Schmitz, president of the University of Washington. ALEX TOTH was general chairman of the affair. 
—CHARLES LaCUGNA 

Wichita 
To cover the current year's activities of the Wichita Club: 
A Communion Breakfast for the new and re­turning students was held on September 12 with 2+ in attendance. Oflicers elected or re-elected at that time were ED McKENNA, Vice-President; DR. BERNARD CROWLEY, Treasurer; DENNIS KER­5CHEN, Secretary-, and GEORGE SCHWARZ, President. 
In conjunction with the Salina Club, the dub ran a special train to the SMU game, December 5. 
Youngstown 
Tile Notre Dame Club of Youngstown held its Universal Notre Dame Night on April 21 at the Tmmbull Country Club in Warren, Ohio with JACK LANDRY as guest speaker. One hun­dred and fifty people were gathered from War­ren, Youngstown, Salem and Lcetonia, Ohio, as wtHl as Sharon and Sharpesnile, Pa. Not only alumni but parents of students presently attending the University and other good friends enjoyed a fine dinner and the talk by Landry. 
Attorney* P.\UL A. GUARNIERI of Warren was presented the Man-of-the-Year award by CHARLES 
B. CUSHWA, a former recipient. 
Toastmaster for the affair was DON HELTZEL and BOB DOVE, 1941 All-Araerican at Notre Dame, introduced the guest speaker. The committee for the event Included GABE MORAN, TOMMY KERRIGAN and JOHN AGONE. 
This Notre Dame Night culminated four months of a vigorous program to revive the alumni group in the area. Monthly dinner meetings have been held since January and a greater response was shown at each succeeding meeting. Football films supplied by the Alumni Office have been x good drawing card and the club is looking for%vard to a successful year. 
Bob Dove, of Canfield, Ohio, was honored by the American Legion of his town at a tcstimoniid dinner in February. Bob did a fine job of en­tertaining all in attendance with stories of his career at Notre Dame and professional football in Chicago and Detroit. Bob recently accepted a post at the University of Detroit as end coach. 
—GRIFF ALLEN, President 

Members of the National Resources Conference held on the Notre Dame campus include, left to right: Army Col. C F. Buck, Air Force Col. Henr>- D. Smith, Army Col. Robert Haines, Air Force CoL Afarrin Heath, Comdr. Jack Dean and Navy Capt. Herman Schieke. The conference was concerned with national security and was attended by 400 military and civilian representatives. It was one of 16 held in the United States and staffed by faculty from the Industrial College of the Armed Forces. 
University of NOTRE DAME PRESS 
NEW BOOKS 
Notre Dame Indiana 
Liturgical Piety 
by Rev. Louis Bouyer (of the Oratory) One of the most important works on the worship and prayer life of the Church to ap­pear in the present century. The world's great experts on the liturgy have praised the 
book: "Not since Guardini's Spirit of the Liturgy has any one volume given such a comprehensive and inspira­tional view of the scope of the liturgical renewal .. . a landmark of advance"—Godfrey Dieckman, O.S.B.; ".. . a treatise on liturgical theology so rich, so deep and beautiful, that (it is) likely to stand unsurpassed for years to come"—Clifford Howell, S.J.; ".. . a work of lasting value, combining sound criticism with an in­spiring enthusiasm"—Johannes Quasten; ".. . a cour­ageous . . . significant book"—Josef A. Jungmon, S.J.; ". . . will open up hitherto undreamt of vistas in the understanding of the nature of the Church"—Dom Gregory Bainbridge; ".. . a truly rnonumentol work"— Charles Corcoran, C.S.C. Q Published. 284 pp. $4.75 
Proceedings of the 8th Annual Convocation of the Vo­cation Institute, 1954, edited by John H. Wilson, C.S.C. For those engaged in discerning and fostering priestly and religious vocations, and in the counselling and guidance of young people toward those vocations. The book includes chapters on modern psychiatry and the Catholic Church, practical problems and solutions in vocation work, and the use of the questionnaire in vo­cation work. • May, 1955. Paper Cover. 124 pp. $1.50 
Our Land and Our Lady by Daniel Sargent Here is the thesis that Henry Adams might hove chosen had he been a Catholic. This little volume traces the hand of Our Lady through the early history of America. The story of missionary beginnings, strivings, failures, and the ultimate paradox of success is told with pro­found spirituality. Q September, 1955. Probably $3.25 
The Proceedings of the 1954 Sisters' Institute of Spir­ituality edited by A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C. A record of the work of the 2nd American Institute of Spirituality for Sister Superiors and Novice Mistresses held at the University of Notre Dame, the volume mokes an important contribution to the literature on religious life. D July. 1955. $3.00 
The Building and Furnishing of Churches 
by Reverend J. O'Connell Gives the basic Church low which must be met in the building and furnishing of a Church. Because of its accuracy, clarity and compactness, the book should sat­isfy a long-felt need for a handy reference work on the subject. • Illustrated. August, 1955. Probably $4.75 
Men in the Field by Leo L. Ward, C.S.C. A collection of eighteen of Father Ward's best short stories unified by their concentration upon varied aspects of a way of life very dear to the author—that of men in the field. Q September, 1955. Probably $3.75 
Student Life in Ave Maria College, Mediaeval Paris, 
by A. L. Gabriel, Canon of Premontre The intellectual life of the college and an interesting insight into the economic life of the mediaeval institu­tions of learning are pointed up in the first chapters of this book. The author also analyzes in detail thirty-three miniatures representing the daily occupations of the students. In the second part of the book can be found various Latin and French deeds related to the college. Q JU'Y. 1955. Probably $5.50 
Britain Views Our Industrial Relations 
by Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C. The findings in this study are based on an analysis of over sixty reports of British union-management teams which visited their counterparts in America since World War II and on personal interviews with team members in England by the author. Attention is given to manage­ment policy on industrial relations, the role of unions in American industry, wage standards in America, methods of income distribution, and the type of recommendations made by the teams to improve industrial relations in Britain. Particular emphasis is placed on the phases of industrial relations which the British union-management teams considered as vital factors accounting for the high rote of productivity in American industry. A re­vealing feature of the book is the way it cites contrast­ing situations drawn from both American and British industries. • September, 1955. Probably $4.75 
The Mystery of the Woman, edited by E. O'Connor, C.S.C. A presentation of the role of the Blessed Virgin in the Catholic Church. It contains chapters on "The History of Devotion to the Blessed Mother in the United States" by Daniel Sargent, "The Divine Maternity" by Walter Burghardt, S.J., "The Immaculate Conception," by Fer­rer Smith, O.P. and "The Assumption" by Rev. George 
W. Shean. Q November, 1955. Probably $3.50 
The Psalter As a Christian Prayer Book 
by Rev. Balthasar Rscher In this informal study. Father Fischer shows us the best method for following the two great traditional ways of using what is, of course, the central prayerbook of the Church. He shows us how we may pray the Psalms as fruitfully as possible, not simply as individuals, but as Members of the Mystical Body of Christ. He shows us especially what we must keep in mind as we pray them through Christ to the Father or directly to Christ Himself, n November, 1955. Probably $4.75 
The Primitive Liturgy Josef A. Jungmann, S.J. This is a work of the kind of profound and fruitful schol­arship for which Father Jungmann is noted throughout the world. Going from an investigation of the earliest forms of worship of Christian antiquity to how our pres­ent liturgy came into being through an organic growth in accordance with varying circumstances, the book proves of inestimable value in enabling us to gain fresh, realistic, and deep appreciation of the things we say and do in Church today. n December, 1955. Probably $4.75 
For handy ordering, merely detach this four-page insert, check the titles you want, fill in your name and address on page 4, and mail the insert to the University of Notre Dame Press. 
"•'••"-'•^^-""-^ T"-r^'^ ^-•>...^^.-.;j.^.^^»r=a=^;=,i««^<wgaraa^^ 
NOTRE DAME PRESS f
Previously Published 
Notre Dame, 

Infernational Studies 
German Protestants Face the Social Question 
by William O. Shanohon Here is a complete and concise analysis of the role that German Protestants have played in the social history of their nation and of the effects v/hich politics has had upon this role. It is the story of the German Protestant response to the Industrial Revolution. Q $6.75 
Pan-Slavism: Its History and Ideology by Hans Kohn The first attempt in English at a comprehensive survey and examination of Slav Nationalism from its beginning after the Napoleonic Wars to its climax in and after World War II. D $6.25 
Soviet Imperialism: Its Origins and Tactics 
edited by Woldemar Gurian A survey of Russian expansionism, considering such questions as "Should the United States encourage na­tional liberation movements among non-Russian groups in the Soviet Union or should it limit itself to the fight against Soviet Communism?" The points of viev/ pre­sented include N. Timosheff of Fordham, Michael Pap of Notre Dame, W. Weintraub of Harvard, R. Pipes of Harvard, F. Barghoorn of Yale and Ling Noi-jui of Notre Dame. D $3.75 
Diplomacy in a Whirlpool: Hungary Between Nazi Ger­many and Soviet Russia by Stephen D. Kertesz The story of the totalitarian conquest of Hungary by the Nazi and Red regimes is jgrophically told here by a man who served in the Hungarian Foreign Ministry during the war and post war years. O $4.00 
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-1951 by M. A. Rtzsimons A lighting up of the mafor lines and development o f British Foreign Policy while the labour government held office. n $3.25 
Bolshevism: An Introduction to Soviet Communism 
by Woldemar Gurian A brief, clear and cogent analysis of both the theor­etical and practical aspects of Soviet Communism. "Gurian performs the remarkable deed of saying every­thing on educated man . . . ought to know about Bol­shevism"—^The Annals. • $3.25 
Christian Democracy in Italy and France 
by Mario Einaudi and Francois Goguel A study of the Christian Democratic Party in Italy and the MRP, the Party of the Fourth Republic. • $4.00 
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy 
by Ferdinand A. Hermens An important volume on the effects of Proportional Representation between 1918 and 1950. • $4.00 
for handy ordering, merely detach this four-page 
Natural Law Institute Proceedings 
D Volume I, 1947, $2.00 Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan The Natural Law Philosophy of the Founding Fathers 
—Clarence E. Manion The Natural Law and Pragmatism—Ben W. Palmer The Doctrine of Natural Law Philosophy • 
—Mortimer Adler-Naturol Law and Positive Low—Harold R. McKinnon The Eternal Low Background of Natural Law 
—William J. Doheny, C.S.C. 

n Volume H, 1948, $2.00 
Edited by Alfred L. Scanlan Natural Low in the Greek Period—Maurice LeBel Natural Low in the Roman Period —Ernst Levy Medieval Conceptions of Natural Law 
—Gordon Hall Gerould The Natural Law in the Renaissance Period —Heinrich A. Rommen Status of Natural Law in American Jurisprudence >.­—Robert N. Wilkin 
n Volume III, 1949, $2.00 
Edited by Edward F. Barrett The Natural Law and Common Low —Richard O'Sullivan The Natural Low and Constitutional Low 
—Edward S. Corwin The Natural Law and Canon Law—Stephan Kuttner The Natural Law and International Law 
—Carlos P. Romulo 

D Volume IV, 1950, $2.00 Edited by Edward F. Barrett "V The Source of Human Rights—George E. Sokolsky j The Natural Law and the Right to Liberty 
—Hon. Thomas J. Brogan | The Natural Law and the Right to Property —Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr. The Natural Law and the Right to Self-Expression 
-- i.-' • '•''U'.—'^^''^ Morley 

The Natural Low and the Riglittd Pursue Happiness ." —John C. Ford, S.J. 
D Volume V, 1951, $2.00 Edited by Edward F. Barrett The Natural Low in the Jewish Tradition 
—Rabbi Solomon Freehdf The Natural Law in the Hindu Tradition —Professor M. S. Sundarom r The Natural Law in the Moslem Tradition —Dr. Khalifa Abdul Hakim The Natural Law in the Confucian Tradition —Dr. Hu Shih The Natural Law in the Buddhist Tradition —Daisetz T. Suzuki 
 insert, check the titles you want, fill in your name and 
address on page 4, and mail the insert to the University of Notre Dame Press. 
University Religion Series 

' The Christian Virtues by Charles Sheedy, C.S.C. [Where most books on moral theology are based on the [jTen Commandments, Father Sheedy's is based on a study of the theological and moral virtues. • $3.00 
; Redemptive Incarnation by Albert Schlitzer, C.S.C. ; A theological work devoted to the actual source-lifera­l]': ture of theology and to a deepened understanding of ^!| the faith. • Paper cover. $2.50 
I'j God and the World of Man . by Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Treats of the introduction to Theology and Faith, One 
-f God and the Trinity, The Creation of Man, His Eleva­' tion and Fall and of the "Last Things." • $3.00 
Evidence for Our Faith—by Joseph H. Cavonough, C.S.C. Its chief purpose is to bring to readers a greater knowl­edge and love of Jesus Christ and His Church. It does this simply by presenting the case for Catholicism and explaining how reasonable it is to believe what the Church teaches. • $3.00 
•ReiilyLectures in Chemistry 
The Path of Carbon in Photosynthesis—Melvin Calvin n Vol. II, 1949. Paper bound. $1.00 
Chemical Thermodynamics; Fractionating Processes; Hy­drocarbons From Petroleum —Frederick D. Rossini n Vol. Ill, 1949. Paper bound. $1.00 
The Problem of Self-Sterility and Physical Properties and Chemical Reactions of Zwitterions —Richard Kuhn D Vol. IV, 1951. Paper bound. $1.00 
Internal Rotation (with Reference to the Structure of ^High Polymers, especially of Proteins) 
—San-ichiro Mizushimo D Vol. V, 1952. Paper bound. $1.00 
Some Aspects of Steroid Stereochemistry 
—Charles W. Shoppee n Vol. VI, 1953. Paper bound. $1.00 
Catalysis and the Chemical Bond —D. D. Eley n Vol. VII, 1954. Paper bound. $1.50 
Acetylene Chemistry —E. R. H. Jones Vol. VIII, 1954. Paper bound. $1.50 
.Reactions of Free Radicals in Solution—Donald H. Hay n Vol. IX, 1954. Paper bound. $1.50 
1—Oxidation of Benzene by Hydrogen Peroxide II—Reaction of Hydrogen Peroxide with some Iron Complexes —J . H. Boxendole D Vol. X, 1955. Paper bound. $1.50 
The Use of Nuclides in the Determination of Organic 
Reaction Mechanisms —Miles Melander 
• Vol. XI, July, 1955. Paper bound. Probably $1.50 
For handy ordering, merely detach this four-page 
Nieuwiand Lectures in Chemistry omd Botany 
•'Industrial Research —Dr. William S. Calcott n Vol. I, 1946. Poper bound. 50c 
The Transuranium Elements and Nuclear Energy 
—Glenn T. Seaborg D Vol. II, 1947. Paper bound. $1.00 
Vitamins, Coenzymes and Nucleotides 
—^Alexander R. Todd n Vol. Ill, 1948. Paper bound. $1.00 
Some Aspects of Surface Action —Eric K. Rideal n Vol. IV, 1950. Paper bound. $1.00 
Plants and Human Affairs —Paul C. Mongelsdorf n Vol. V, 1952. Paper bound. 50c 
The Actinomycetes and Their Antibiotics 
—Selman A. Woksmon D Vol. VI, 1952. Paper bound. $1.00 
Peter E. Dietz, Labor Priest —^Mary Horrita Fox The biography of a dynamic personality and a sig­nificant contribution to the social history of the Catholic Church and to the evolution of the American labor movement. Father Dietz was the key figure in the American Catholic social and labor movement during the first quarter of the century. He was the first "Labor Priest" and a pioneer in such activities as the labor school and the credit union he organized in Cincinnati and Milwaukee. Q $4.75 
Notre Dame, 100 Years —Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C. For 25 years the author has been closely associated with Notre Dome and Notre Dame men and he man­ages to capture much of the heart of the school within these pages. The many anecdotes and interesting stories give this biography of Notre Dame's first 100 years a very personal appeal. Q $4.00 
For Football Fans 
The Football Preview—A "dope book," published every August especially for sports writers and TV and radio sports announcers, giving complete information on Notre Dame's football prospects for the coming season; biographies and pictures of players and coaches; sched­ules and prospects of opponents; and feature stories. 
D 50c 

The Football Review—Published in December, it is the only ofRcial review of the Fighting Irish season. There's a full page story of each game, lists of the all-time and season's statistics, Notre Dame All-Americans, and fea­tures of persons and places connected with Notre Dame sports. O 50c 
 insert, check the titles you want, fill in your name and 
address on page 4, and mail the insert to the University of Notre Dame Press. 
>v 
>.p-«-YTF*^-jta«*«ry-^«'>TOHH-<^gM^'*«^--^-*>-''fi«'[7r^^ 
^rr—T^nf~^-"^i^'' 

THE REVIEWS OF POLITICS 
A Quarterly Magazine Devoted to Cultural Interests 
The Review of Politics, published January, April, July, and October by the University of Notre Dame, is recognized internationally as one of the best cultural magazines appearing in the United States. Among the regular subscrib­ers to the Review of Politics are businessmen, lawyers, professors, editors, clergymen and diplomats. 
• • • Recently the President of an important Chicago bank sent in his subscription after seeing a copy belonging to another prominent Chicago businessman because he found in the Review a satisfactory analysis of Communism. 
• • • A prominent Archbishop says that he reads every issue from cover to cover. 
• • • An experienced diplomat regards the Review of Politics as one of the finest maga­zines published in the United States. 
• • • The President of an important research foundation regards the Review of Politics as a unique contribution to American thought and culture. 
Internationally recognized authorities who have written for the Review of Politics include: Jacques Maritain, John 
U. Nef, Francis Dvornik, Christopher Dawson, Josef Pieper, Don Luigi Sturzo. 
Contributors to the Review of Politics on American affairs include: Russell Kirk, Hans Morgenthau, Clinton Rossiter, Aaron I. Abell, Leo R. Ward. 
Topics discussed in past issues of the Review of Politics include: Soviet Foreign Policy, American Foreign Policy, Church and State, the Politics of Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and John Adams, Art and Politics, the Forma­tion of the Catholic Minority, Peron and Argentine, Communism in Guatemala. 
Articles being prepared for future issues include: articles on French Foreign Policy, on An Experiment in American Town Government, on a Theory of the Common Good, on the British Labour Policy, on Recent Developments in Marxism, on the Ruhr and the German Problem, on Walter Lippmon's idea of Democracy, on Christian Culture in America, etc. 
The editors of the Review of Politics have found the Notre Dome Alumni and their friends as their best friends and supporters. The $4.00 subscription price does not allow them to hire an agency to seek your subscription. Use the blank below and enjoy the quarterly issues of the Review of Politics. 
• Please enter my name for a one-year subscription @ $4.00 a year 
To: University of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame, Indiana 

Please send the titles I have checked. I am enclosing $-. 
Name .. 
Address 

City Zone State ^ 
For handy ordering, merely detach this four-page insert, check the titles you want, fill in your name and address above, and mail the insert. 
ALEXIS COQUILLARD, *03, died January 27 in South Bend, Ind. Mr. Coqmllard was a giaiid­
nephew of Alexis Coquillard, co-founder of the city of South Bend and one of the area's earliest peinui-. w >• nent settlers. Mr. CocpiiUard had been a general 
wnni :ses 
insurance agent In South Bend since 1903 and was 
Engagements 

Miss iUice Catherine Shechan and JOHN C. DILLON, "il. 
Miss Elizabeth Marie Jackson and Lt. (j.g.) ; JOHN J. PRENDERGAST, JR., M8. i Miss Merrus Elaine Hoctcl and DAVID C. ! IRWIN, 'SI. 
Mbs Isabel Thcresc Dempscy and GEARY T. BECKER, '53. •'.' Miss Lois Langford and WILLIAM B. BERRY, '53. Miss Elizabeth Ann Jfagcc and JOHN W. HORAN, '53. ) Miss Marj- Lou Keating and ROBERT G. MIL­LENBACH, '53. Miss Dcnisc Becker and Lt. CliVRLES W. ROEMER, '53. Miss Martha Steele and ROBERT J. DEWEY, '54. Miss Phyllis Jean StoufTer and Lt. WILLL\M C. H,\MEL, '54. Miss Sarah Jane McCoy and JAMES H. HAR­RINGTON, '54. Mbs Kathleen Maguirc and Lt. R^VYMOND 
M. TIERNEV, JR., '54. 
Marriages 

Miss Arlcnc Marcia O'Keefc and EDWARD M. MORAN, '34, Notre Dame, Ind., December 28, _.1954. '' ' Miss Rosamond Ryan and JOHN M. APPLEBE, '48, Fresno, Calif., February 19. Miss Shirley Ann Brothers and Dr. A. ROBERT KLUCKiV, '48, Detroit, Mich., February 12. 
Miss SyKia C. Pember and EDWARD G. Mc-ENEARNEY, '49, ^Vhitestonc, Queens, N. V., January 8. 
Miss Barbara J. Steichcn and Lt. MARK H. BERENS, '50, Minneapolis, Minn., November 20, 1954. 
Miss Annie Laura Evers and Capt. VINCENTE 
T. BLAZ, '51, San Diego, Calif., March 26. »Iiss Shirley Ann Krause and D.ANIEL J. BREN­NAN, '51, Misha\v*aka, Ind. Miss Maurine Diebold and JAMES H. BREN­NAN, '52, Detroit, Mich., Jan. 22. 
Miss Clair Marie Maguire and RICHARD J. BYRNE, South Orange, N. J., February 12. 
• Miss Rosemary Schmertmann and ROBERT A. - DOUGHERTY, '52, Litchfield, 111., January 29. Miss Mary Ann Haselsteiner and CHARLES V. FALKENBERG, JR., '52, Glenview, lU., April 9. Miss Regina Margaret Boyle and Lt. (j.g.) ROBERT K. GORDON, JR., '52, February 12. Miss Louise Mary Choffin and Lt. ROBERT J. KLEIN, '52, Notre Dame, Ind., January 8. Miss Anne Margaret Kmec and DAVID M. ROGERS, '53, Bayonne, N. J., February 19. Miss Mary Bencsics, and ROBERT SCARBECK, '53, South Bend, Ind., February 19. 
Miss Katherine Charlotte Brien and JOHN W. STOEPLER, '53, South Bend, Ind., December 29. 1954. 
Miss Shirley A. DUIon and RICH,\RD E. GER­BRACHT, '54, South Bend, Ind., January 22. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. JAMES F. DOYLE, '33, a daugh­ter, December 28, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH R. GLENXON, '34, a son, Thomas Manchester, July 13, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., '37, a son, Joseph William, February 23. -Mr. and Mrs. PAUL M. MORRISON, '40, a son, John Francis, February 7. Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH E. BROUSSARD II, '41, a daughter, December 31, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. BURNS, '41, a son, December 26, 1954. Dr. and -Mrs. EUGENE RY/\N, '41, a daughter, Kathleen, April 1, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. UGO D. ROSSI, '42, a son, Mar­
tin Vincent, March 7. 1 Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD HECKMAN, '42, a ^daughter, Susan Marie, February 14. 
Mr. and -Mrs. GEORGE A. UHL, '42, a son, Christopher Judc, February 2. Mr. and Mrs. DOMINIC F. BOETTO, '44, a daughter, Jean Marie, March 18. Mr. and Mrs. \VILBUR F. DOLL, '« , a daugh­ter, Catherine Ann, February 4. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH F. GALL, '44, a son, Timothy Andrew, November 26, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. LYNCH, '44, a daugh­ter, Kathleen Ann, January 21. Mr. and ^frs. JOSEPH VAN DYKE, '44, a son, Mark James, September 5, 1954. Mr. and Ntrs. R. JERRY McCARTY, '45, a daughter, Molly, March 14. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS L. FOSS, '46, a son, Timothy Francis Xavier, January 7. Mr. and Mrs. RUDOLPH J. ANDERSON, JR., '47, a son, Peter Gerard, January 12. Air. and -Mrs. JA.MES W. KELLY, '47, a son, Timothy Kerrigan, March 8. Mr. and .Mrs. ANTHONY E. DiB.ARl, '48, a son, Anthony Edward, February 2. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES L. FERSTEL, '48, a daugh­
ter, Julie Ann, March 18. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD PATRICK, '48, a son, Mr. and Mrs. RALPH SCHUMAKER, '48, a 
daughter, Joan Frances, January 30, 1955. Mark Justin, November 29, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD A. BANNON, '49, a son, Terence, December 13, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT P. KANE, '49, a daugh­ter, Kathleen Mary, February 27. -Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. McKINLEY, '49, a son, John Pius, February 23. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. STUHR, JR., '49, a son, Robert Joseph, January 15. Mr. and Mrs. FRED R. VEIT, '49, a son, David Robert, February 20. Mr. and -Mrs. HARRY E. MONAHAN, JR., '50, a daughter, Margaret Cecelia, March 16. Mr. and .Mrs. EDWARD M. ABRAMS, '50, a son, Alan Ralph, February 28. .Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH FALLON, '50, a daugh­ter. Aim Elizabeth, March 6, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. THORNTON, '30, a daughter, Deborah Ann, February 9. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER F. ZENNER, SR., "50, a son, Peter Thomas, March 23. Mr. and Mrs. ER\VIN H. BRENDEL, '51, a son,_ Robert Paul, January 4. Mr. and Mrs. WILLUSI F. GALLAGAN, JR., a son, WilUam F. Ill, February 12, 1954. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN H. JANO^VSKI, '51, a daughter, Mary Clare, December 18, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW McKENNA, '51, a daughter, Mary Suzanne, June 29, 1954. ifr. and -Mrs. W1LLIA.M A. WHITESIDE, '51, a son, William A. III. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN M. BANNON, JR., '52, a tiaughter, Barbara Mary, December 28, 1954. Mr. and -Mrs. GEORGE LUDWIG, JR., '52, a daughter. Heather Ann, January 21. Mr. and -Mrs. FR.ANCIS X. DRISCOLL, '52, a son, Robert Patrick, February 20. 
Sympathy 

HARRY RICHWINE, '20, on the death of his wife on December 29, 1934. 
ALBERT GRI.M.M, '38, GEORGE GRLMM, '44, and REV. RICHARD J. GRLMM, C.S.C., '33, on the death of their mother in January. 
D.WID CONDON, '45, on the death of his father. 
Obituary 

HON. KICKILVM SCANLAN, '88, died in Chi­cago March 6, 1953. Mr. Scanlan who was 90 years old, received an honorary degree also from Notre Dame in 1917. He w^xs a former circuit and appellate court judge and retired in 1951 after 42 years on the beach. Judge Scanlan %vas a member of the American, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associa­tions and of the Chic^o Athletic Club. He is sur­vived by his widow, Irene; a daughter by a previous marriage Mrs. Naomi Nell, 3 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren. Funeral services were hdd in St. Ita's Catholic Church, Chicago. 
a former president of the Indiana Association of In­siumicc Agents. He was also a past-president of the South Bend Insurance Exchange. &&. Coquil­lard is survived by his widow, Mary, four sons, David, George C , Alexis and John P., and one-daughter, ^Irs. Mary Pettoeiger. He was a member of St. Patrick's Catholic Church and a member of the Knights of Columbus and served as president of the Northern Indiana Historical Society*. 
DR. GILBERT F. McCULLOUGH, '04, died February 11 In Davenport, Iowa. Dr. McCullougfa was an outstanding track star at Notre Dame and established records in several events that went tm­broken for 20 years. After finishing a pre-medlcal course at Notre Dame, he received his doctor of medicine degree from Northwestern in 1907. In ad­dition to being a monogram winner in track at Notre Dame, he \vas also on the football squad and was a star pitcher on the baseball team. Dr. Mc-CuUough is survived by a brother, HENRY, '20. 
CLARENCE J. KENNEDY', '05, of Kankakee, 111., died recently. 
WILLIAM P. O'NEILL, '06, fonncr lacutenant Governor of Indiana, died February 19 after a brief illness in the home of a SOD, DENNIS J. CNEIIX, '26, in Cleveland, Ohio. The family address is 806 West Mishawaka Avenue, Mishawaka, Ind. Mr. O'Neill was associated with the law £rzn of O'Neill and Schwab and practiced law in St. Joseph County courts until a 'lew months before his death. In 1913 he headed the Indiana Commission for the Panama-Patufic Exposition In San Francisco. As a boy he served at Masses conducted by the Rev. Edward F. Sorln, C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame. 
Also 5urvi%ang are a son RONALD S., '14, of South Bend who is on the Notre Dame faculty; 3 daughters. Sister ^larie Angela, president of Im­maculata College, Washington, D. C , Miss Gerry O'Neill, Detroit, Mich., Mrs. George W. Pontius, HI, South Bend, 10 grandchildren and 8 great­grandchildren. 
REV. JAMES J. QUINLAN, C.S.&, '08, profes­sor of economics at Notre Dame, died January 23, 1933, after an Illness of two weeks. Father Quinlan W3s ordained In 1912 and after teaching at Notre Dame from 1913 to 1923 he served as chaplain at various schools before returning here in 1941. Survi\-ors Include one sister, Mrs. ^VIlHam Kelly, and a brother John both of Chicago, III. Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart Church and burial was In the Community Cemetery. 
PASTOR VILLAFLOR, '09, believed to be the first Filipino naturalized as an American citizen, died recently in the Notre Dame Student Infirmary where he had been a patient four years. He had lived on the campus for more than a half-century and since the 1920's had embroidered many of the exquisite vestments used on the most solemn occa­sions in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame. Mr. Villaflor, on the occasion of his citizenship, was feted at the White House In 1901 by President and Mrs. Theodore Roosevelt. In his early days he was a world traveler, artist and musician and first came to Notre Dame in 1905 when he studied briefly for the priesthood. Funeral services were held at Sacred Heart Church. 
REV. JAMES P. KEHOE, OS.a , '11, died Fd>­ruary 16, 1955, in the Notre Dame Student In­firmary after an illness of four years. He entered the novitiate of the Holy Cross Seminary in 1917 and was ordained in 1922. Father Kehoe served as representative of the Bengalese Mrnion Magazine of the Holy Cross Fathers for eight years. He taught at the University of Notre Dame and also the University of Portland. Father Kehoe received a master's degree from Portland In 1937. A solemn-requiem Mass was sung in Sacred Heart Church and burial was In the Community Cemetery. > 
HER>L%N PIPER, '11, died on March 10 as the result of injuries he received In an accident. Mr. Piper was a life-long resident of Stlllu'nler, Minn. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus, the Catholic Order of Foresters and of St- Joseph's Society of St. Mary's Church, Stillwater. Surviv­ors are two cousins, Frank £. Aiple of Stillwater, and Gertrude AipIe Cassutt, ^fanhattan Beach, Calif. 
WENDELL T. PHILLIPS, '12, architect and na­tionally recognized authority on church architec­turr, died Fdjruary 27 after a short illness in Mil­ford, Mass. ' Mr. Phillips, while a member of the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 31 

architectural firm of Maginnis and Walsh in Bos­ton, had charge of the planning and construction of many buildings designed by t!ic finn in this country and in Canada. In 1925, Holy Cross College con­ferred upon him the degree of Master of Arts for hts architectural • achievements. He resigned from ^Nlagtnnis and AValsh in 1940 and established his ou'n oSicc at MiUord. Mr. Phillips is sunived by his widow, Ex-a, lour sons, Dand F., Robert S., Paul R., and Richard L., and four sisters. Two other sons arc deceased. 
FRED J. STEWART, *12, died April 29, 1954, according to information furnished the Alumni Of­fice by Mrs. F. J. Stewart, HoIK-wood, Florida. 
REV. PATRICK T. QUIXLAN, '15, of St. Ann's Mission Parish, AVilllamsburg County, Kingstree, South Carolina, died recently. 
PHILLIP S>\'EET, '17, whose address was Clover Hill Farm, Bourbonnais, 111-, died Nov-ember 29, 1954. 
CLYDE J. ZOU, '18, died April 3, 1955, in Woodstock Hospital, Chicago, after a long illness. Mr. Zoia was a starting guard on the 1917 football team, coached by Knute Rockne. He was alco a former lineman of the Chicago Cardinals profes­sional football team. A requiem ^fass was said in St. Mar>-'s Church, Woodstock. Sur\'i\*ors include his widow, Helen, and a daughter, Mary Frances. Mr. Zoia had been part owner of a AVoodstock monument company and w-as a deputy county sher­iff for twenty years. 
BERNARD D. HEFFERNAN, '18, died January 21, 1955, in Washington, Ind. 
PATRICK J. LYNCH, LL.D., *19, died recently in Ne^v Castle, Ind, Mr. L>-nch received an hon­orar>- degree from Notre Dame and had been active in Republican politics for many years. He operated a nationally kno\%-n rose growing business and also practiced law. 
REV. FR.ANCIS NOWAKOWSKI, C.S.C., '20, died on March 5, 1955. Father NowakowskI was assigned to Holy Trinity Parish, Chicago, HI. 
EDWARD C. HERBERT, '22, died In Cincinnati, Ohio, on December 26, 1954, after an illness of seven months. He was an advertising executive with the .A\-co Company In Cinclimati. Mr. Her­bert is survived by his ivldow, Dorothy, two sons, Edward, Jr., and James, and a daughter, Ann. The ^mily address ts 1595 Elizabeth Place, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
SISTER M. LUCRETIA KEARNS, C.S.C., '23, of St. Mar>-'s Academy, Notre Dame, Ind., died recently. 
SISTER M. LEONETTE, O.S.F., '24, former principal of St. Mar>-'s Academy, Indianapolis, died March 3. She was a native of Indianapolis and had been In HI health for several years. Sister Leon­ette iv-ould have completed 50 years of religious ser\*ice later this year. A sister, Mrs. K. \Velch, Omaha, Nebraska, li the only immediate survivor. 
CHARLES E. O'DONNELL, '24, died November 23, 1954, In Chicago. 
T. FREDERICK MEEHAN, '25, died of a heart attack at Lowellville, Ohio, recently. He was a member of Holy Rosary Church and the Profes­sional Engineers, State of Ohio. Mr. Meehan had worked for Aetna Standard Engineering Company for the last nine years. He had served as clerk on the Lov\-eIlville scliool board for 23 years and was also prominent in civic activities. Survivon Include his wife, Altha M., three daughters and two sons. 
JOHN J. SHEEHAN, '25, died Dec 28, 1954, in the New Rochellc (N. Y.) Hospital. Mr. Shcc­han was president of the Shcehan-Zari Motors, Inc., and had oflices and shoMTOoms In New Rochelle and in New York City. His company was one of the largest distributors of Studebaker automobiles, and with the exception of a period of service witli the War Production Board as a consultant, he had been with the Studebaker organization since his graduation from Notre Dame. "Sir, Sheehan leaves his widow, Blanche; two sons, John C. and Thomas; and a daughter, Mrs. John F. Hardestv-. He was prominent as a Roman Catholic Ia>inan in his community. 
SISTER M. FERDLVAND, O.S.U., '27, died De­cember 13, 1954. She also received a master's degree from Notre Dame in 1934 and was a member of the staff at Ursuline High School, Columbia, S. C. 
REV. PAUL JOSEPH SHEA, C.S.C., '27, a Holy Cross missionary In Pakistan since 1931, died there Tebniary 14, 1955, after an illness of six weeks. Father Shea was a native of Chicago and was or­dained in 1931. "TTic funeral and burial toot place in Paklstao. Survivors Include three brothers and 

32 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
four asters including Rev. Edward Shea, C.S.C., of Notre Dame's Modem Language Department. 
DR. JOHN A. YOCHEM,. SR.,^'27, died unex­pectedly in Sandusky, Ohio, Jatmary 2, 1955. He ' was a member of St. Mary's Church and a staff member of both Good Samaritan and Providence Hospitals* Dr. Yochem, after taking a pre-medical course at Notre Dame, received his M.D. degree from Ohio State University in 1930. He Is sur-' xivcd by his widow, Margaret, a daughter, Val Jean, tivo sons, Pfc John A., Jr., and Daniel R. The family address Is 1014 Central Avenue, San­dusky, Ohio. 
GEORGE C. RUANE, *29, died of a heart at­tack at the Wilkes-Barre Veterans Hospital (Pa.) on March 50, 1955. He had been assistant cliief en­gineering officer in charge of utilities at the hospital since it was opened, ^fr. Ruane was a veteran of World War II and \t-as a member of St. John the Evangelist Church. He was affiliated with the Holy Name Society, Fort Pittston VFW, American Legion, tlie Notre Dame Ahxmni Club and the Pnjfcssional Engineers Club. Survivors include his wife, Ruth, fats mother, a sister and a brother. 
CHARLES E. McDERMOTT, '29. died on Janu­ar>' 17, 1955, according to a report received by the Alumni Office. His address was listed as 8337 South May Street, Chicago 20, III. 
FRANK R. DITTOE, *31, manager of industrial relations for the Kelley Island Company for tlie past six years, died ifarch 12 In St, John's Hos­pital, Cleveland. Before joining the Kelley Com­pany, Frank was with the Department of Labor In Cleveland for seven years. He was an active mem­ber of the Notre Dame Alumn! Club and the Cleve­land Bar Association. Frank is survived by his wife. Rose, three sons, Michael, Richard and Pat­rick; tv\'o daughters. Eve and Mary Ellen; his mother, Mrs. Lillian Dittoe; two brothers and three sisters. The requiem Mass was held In St. Chris­topher's Catholic Church, Rocky River, Ohio. 
HAROLD J. O'CONNOR, '31, died of pneu­monia in Rockford, 111., on March 29, 1955. He u-as active ia the Notre Dame Alumni Club In Rockford and had recently been elected as treasurer and club director. His funeral was In St. Peter's Church, Rockford, on March 31. 
JOSEPH L. LOPKER, JR., '32, art director of the "American AVeekly" died January 2 at St. Luke's Hospital in New York City. He was a na­tionally-known cartoonist. Joe was a son of Mr. and ^Irs. Joseph Lopker, ST., 2619 Lakcvicw Ave-nus, St. Joseph, Mich. 
SISTER MARIE ANTONIO, CS.C , *32, of Su Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind., died recently. 
* ROBERT E. SHOE.MAKER, '40, died suddenly In Charleston, W. Va., of a cardiac condition on January 26. Bob vvas assistant superintendent of maintenance at Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company. He ys-as a past-president of the Carbide Hunting and Fishing Club and a member of the University Club, the Notre Dame Alumni Club and the German Club. A requiem High ^fass was celebrated at Sacred Heart Catholic Church of which he was a devout member. He is survived by his wife, Janet, two sets of tv%ins, Robert Allen and William Edward, and Joanne ^farie and James ^flcliael; and his parents, Mr. and Afrs. O. J. Shoemaker of South Bend, Ind. The family address is 1527 Hampton Road, Louden Heights, Charles­ton, W. Va. 
FRANaS J. McGRODER, JR., '41, died No­vember 3, 1954, in Cleveland, Ohio. FREDERICK C. VICIC, JR., '45, died in Febru­ary, 1955. His address was 1205 Bigelow, Peoria, III. 
MYRON J. MAUL, '49, djed February 26 in Austin, Texas from chronic nephritis. He was a faculty member and publicity director at St. Ed­ward's University'. Myron had been a resident of Austin for the past six years and his home originally woi in Monroe, Mich. At the time of his death, he was an associate professor of journalism and had recently been appointed assistant to the presi­dent and director of public relations for St. Ed­v*-ard's University. He is survived by his widow, Afr?. Patricia >faul, 2706 South First Street, Aus­tin, Tcxasj his parents Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Maul; tv%'o brothers, Glenn and Walter; and one ^ter, Mrs. Walter Williams, all of Monroe, Mich. 
REV. CHARLES A. COSTELLO, '51, died In January, 1954. 
LT. (j.g.) PHILIP R. MEYER, JR., USN, '52, was killed in an aircraft crash at Cecil Field, Jack­sonville, Florida, on March 6. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Philip Meyer, 9 Flor­ence Court, Babylon, N. Y. 
JOHN RILEY CORCORAN, '52, died on April 5, 1955, from cancer. He had recently returned from 
.-a, tour of duty with-the. Armed Forces overseas. John, is survived-by." his mother, ,Mrs. Margaret Corcoran, and the family address is 123 Weestwood. Road, Columbus, Ohio. •^ 
CHARLES D. MAGINNIS, a recipient of tlie Lactare Medal in 1924, died at the age of 88 in Boston, Mass. Mr. Maginnls was noted as an archi­tect of ecclesiastical buildings and of hospitals. He was associated with the firm of Maginnb and Walsh in Boston. Seven buildings at Notre Dame were designed by Mr. Maginnls. 
MISS MAURA K. MILLS, daughter of the late Tommy Mills who v\-as an assistant coacli under Knute Rockne, died in South Bend, Ind., after a brief illness in Marcli, 1955. At the time of her death. Miss Mills was secretary- to Herb Jones, Business Manager of Athletics at Notre Dame. She had also hlled similar positions for Notre Dame's Office of Public Information and for Charlie Calla­han,. Director oi Sports Publicity. Survivors include two brotliers, Robert, '50, and Tliomas, '42. Funeral services were conducted In Sacred Heart Churcli on ( the Notre Dame campus and burial was in Beloit, Wisconsin. 
COL. LOUIS L. ROBERTS, former member of the Notre Dame law faculty-, died January 1, 1955, in St. Louis, Mo. Col. Roberts received degrees from ^Vabash College and Catholic University of America. He Avas a veteran of both \VorId Wars and at the close of AVorld War II he was on a special European mission for tlie Air Force. He v^'as well known throughout Indiana for his ability* as a lav^yer and he was active as a professor of law at Notre Dame in 1946-1947 until forced to retire be­cause of ill health. Col. Roberts was a member of the /Vmerican Bar Association, Knights of Columbus and numerous military and civic organizations. Sur­vivors include his wife, Pauline, a daughter, Mrs. Donald Patrick of South Bend, Ind., two sons, Capt. Louis N., and James Alan. Col. Roberts was a brother-in-law of the Rev. William H. Molony, C.S.C., of Notre Dame and father-in-law of Don­ald Patrick, '48. 
1900 
CHARLES J. BAAB receBt}y wrote a very in­teresting article entitled ''Scouting at St. Nicholas" in the St. Nicliolas Messenger, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
5 0 yEAR, REUNION JUNE 10-1112 
# 5 yEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-11-11 

JAMES F. REDDIXG's ncu- address is Suite' 1104, H03 Pine St., St. Louis 3, Mo. 
191 1 Fred L. Steers " • • 105 So. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illinois 
lOli Mr. Paul R. B)-rne 
•''• * O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
CLYDE E. BROUSSARD recently became a grandfather for the twenty-first time and liis young granddaughter now increases the total to 110 mem­bers of the immediate Broussard family. 
191d Ron O'NeiU 
• " ^ 1350 No. Black Oak Dr. i South Bend 17, Indiana 
AO yEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-11-12 

I 1Q11« James £. Sanford 
•T I a J429 W. Farrasut Avenue 

j Chicago 40, Illinois From ED FOLEY: 
"JIM SANFORD and I have been working to-Setber on the coming Reunion oC the Class of 1913 —and it is lurnins out to be quite a job tr>'ing to locate some of the men. 

V "However we are contacting all whose addresses 
' wc have but some of the mail has been returned with the notation 'Xo Record' or 'Moved, Left no fon^'arding address.* Therefore, any of you men 
•who have not heard from us directly please contact Jim (see above address) or me at 7234 S. Coles Ave., Chicago 49, 111. 
"Many of us have sons who also came out of Xotre Dame and we arc planning a reai Fathers and Sons Reunion with the Fathers bringing along their sons whether they are out of Notre Dame or not. "We want to have a real Reunion with a Fathers and Sons Communion most likely on Saturday morn­ing—and then a real Dinner for all of the crowd in the evening. Many fellows who have no sons that can come along wc hope will bring along daughters and let them join with us. 

"Of course, >'ou all remember FATHER MAT­THEW WALSH. I had a. letter from him—and he ^ says that even though he is now located in New ' Orleans he will surely be on hand if it is at all 
possible. 
"Wc u-ill have other interesting features to make this 40th Reunion something wc will all cherish for the rest of our days—and •while wc slill have a good cr«vd left—come join us if you are a Fifteen Man—and EVEN IF YOU ARE NOT.*' 
191 A Grover F. Miller ' ' • " 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
JOE FLYNN, a busy architect at 311 Alexander St., Rochester 4, N. Y., indicates that he will at­tend the 40th Reunion next June, 1956. 
JOE MILLER is now retired. H^VROLD BURKE Is active as a federal judge. JxVKE ECHEL runs a foundry- at Syracuse, N. Y. 

••"^ Ml of the above men intend to be present at our 40th. 
Edward J. McOsker 
1917 
2205 Briar^vood Road Cleveland Hgts. 18, Ohio 
George E. Harbert 
1918 
108 No. Main Street Sycamore, Illinois 
Theodore C. Rademakcr 
1919 
Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 
55 iJEAR REUNION JUNE lO'IMl 
lQ9n Ralph W. Bersjman I7AU igo9 No. Jefferson Ave. St Louis 6, Missouri 
The caption above tells that another five point marker has been stepped ofT. Our 30th reunion \\*as a grand get-together, with many thanks to EDDIE DOHRf\N. Since no one seems to want to tell their story in correspondence, let's speak it in words at the reunion, on June 10, 11, 12, 1955. 
IPOI Dan W. Duffy 
•^^ ' 1101 N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland H, Ohio 
ALFRED N. SI^VGGERT is a member of the Li­brary Committee of the 1955 Saginaw County (Mich­igan) Bar Association. 
GEORGE WITTERIED's son, Peter, is in "The Long Gray Line," Peter captained the swimming team at West Point last year and performed as a double for one of the actors in a swimming scene of the above movje. Pete also was a member of the 
U. S. Team in the Pan-f\mcrican Gomes held in Mexico City recently. 
I 922 Gerald A. Ashe 
• '^^ 39 Cambridge Street Rochester 17, N. Y. 
Another of our fine classmates has gone to his reward. ^Vc arc very sorry to learn that EDWARD HERBERT of Cindnnati, Ohio, has died, and, as yet, we cannot supply details of his death, or his business affiliations, as we go to press. Eddie W'as graduated Ph.B. in journalism. He was much loved and admired by his classmates in and out of Jour­nalism. \Ve offer our prayers and sincere sympathy to his wife, Dorothy, daughter, Anne, and sons, £d­\vard, Jr., and James. The family address is 1595 Elizabeth Place, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Our hearty congratulations are tendered Doctor D.ANIEL L. SEXTON of St. Louis, Mo., on hU election to the oflice of president of the St. Louis \fedical Society. Doctor Dan was installed on January* 4 at the I20th annual meeting of the So­ciety. The Sexton address Is 14 Crestwood Drive, Clayton 5, Mo. 
Miss Ruth Carolyn Bloemer, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. FIL\NK BLOEMER of Louisville. Ky., was united in marriage to Mr. Thomas Vinano at the Log Chapel on the Notre Dame campus on Novem­ber 25. The groom was graduated from Notre Dame in February of this year. Congratulations and best wishes to Mr. and Mrs. Viviano and to the parents of the ncwl>-weds. 
The Christmas mail was ver>- good to us this year with messages from classmates and we are going to give you some of the highlights: 
MORGAN SHEEDV of Pittsburgh, with his mother, visited the Clevclajid section of the Sheedy family for Christmas. Dr. and Mrs. HENRY AT­KINSON of Green Bay, Wis., were planning a trip south for late winter or early spring. Alt's well with the JOSEPH PARLEYS of LaGrange, III., the TOM McOVBES of Elmhurst, the RAYMOND KEARNS of Tcrre Haute, Fathers ROBERT SHEE­HAN, THOMAS LEAHY, and JOHN CAVAN­AUGH, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, Father PAT HAG­GERTY, C.S.C, now located in New Orleans, the WILFRED DWYERS of London, Ohio, the JER­OME DIXONS, Evanston, the GERALD "MID­NIGHT" MURPHYS, Chicago, the BRUCE HOLMBERGS, Oak Park, III., and the AL CAR­ROLLS, Rockford, III. 

Wc learn with regret of the illness of Hon. AL SCOTT and GERALD JONES last fall and are greatly encouraged to know that they are feeling much better at present. Al Scott resides at 1669 Wellington, Los Angeles 6, and Jerry Jones is home at 706 East Fellows St., Dixon, IlL 
Here is one from A. HAROLD \VEBER: "Luc>- and I are here in New Orleans for a fexv days with Lucile (my sister) and JACK YOUNG, '17, who is presiding judge at the New Orleans Fair Grounds Race Track. I did not write to Father GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., as you sug­gested, but planned on a surprise personal visit with him the week of his anniversary when wc were in Boston on our return from our trip through Quebec, New Brunswick and New England. Alas! When we arrived in Boston I became ill and spent my sojourn there in bed—too ill even to phone Father George. From New Orleans \ve are heading over to Florida for a few weeks. Then we expect to go to Hawaii in February with friends on the Matsbn liner, Lurline, if I can cope with it. Early in July I was 'clipped' with arthritis in my right knee and have been on crutches ever since. ^Vith the help of your prayers and cortisone, I hope to discard tiiem before too long. Lucy and I were happy to attend the wedding of Ruth Bloemer and Thomas Vi\-iano at Notre Dame and had a grand \islt with Marie and Frank Bloemer (bride's parents) who looked proud and happy." 
Mention of Hawaii in Harold ^V'ebe^*s letter reminds me that Mrs. PAT HIRSCHBUHL, \vidow of our beloved classmate, Charles, \-isited Hawaii before Christmas with her son-in-law and daughter, Mr. and Mrs. Donald Drake of Portland, Ore, The party was home in Portland in time for Christmas. 
GEOGE HENEGHAN of Benton Harbor, Michi­gan (169 East Britain), has recovered nicely from a gall bladder operation November 23. 
From STEPHEN E. CAR.MODY of Carlinvflle. lU.: 
"\Vish you would follow up on the *see you soon deal.* Hope you are enjoying the gopher atmo­sphere. ^Vc are all fine, T. P. is in law school at ND, Mary Jo at St. Mar>-*s, Chuck at Blacldjum, Carlinville, and Anne in High School. Best wishes from all of us." 
During the Christmas season, we had an oppor­tunity to visit with two famlHes of deceased class members—the LYNCH family of Meriden, Conn., and the GAFFNEYS of New Britain, Conn. Dorothy Lynch, sister of CLETE, also a brother were very delighted to see one of Clete's old buddies and same can be said of Mrs. Helen GafFney, widow of 
TRI-CrriES—The club's St. Patrick's Day party included the following: standing (left to right), Jerry Arnold, George Vandervennett, Mr. Cocks, Mrs. Martha Arnold, Bill Bern­brock; seated (left to right), Mrs. George Vandervennett, Mrs. Pauline Alcagher, Ed Meagher and Mrs. Rosemary Real. 
T ; / '-l'~1 r 
•••- .. • ,r 
• ;.:•: ••;:•, -. 
1 ^ ^ 
jVolr« Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 33 

CYRIL, and son, Brian, who is now a senior at ND. 
Another son, Bernard, a grroiuaic of Yale, enlisted 
in the Armed Forces and now locates at Stutt­
gart, Germany. 
Who among us has forgotten CHARLES 

*'CHUCK" FOLEY of Burns, Oregon, who was 
one of the first of our members called by God to 
organize tlic 1922 legion in heaven ? Chuck in 
campus days was part of the Oregon s>Tidicatc 
boosting other sucli illustrious members as CHARLIE 
HIRSCHBUHL, DUKE HODLER, I\'AX SHARP, 
GENE and JOHN MURPIft'. After Chuck was 
graduated at XD in law, he became associated with 
the Lee^ Department of the Union Pacific Railroad 
Sj-stem witli offices in Portland. He married and 
the proud Foleys had two cliildren—a daughter, 
Mar>' Ann, and son, Charles. Soon thereafter, the 
Foley family was severely jolted by the death of 
our dear Chuck, and the burden of raising the fam­
ily fell upon the widow, Gertrude. Latter was not 
found wanting in her new obligations as head of the 
Foley family. The years passed and noit- daughter 
Mar>' Ann has blossomed into a ver>' charming 
young lady, and son, Charles, is a real diip of 
Charles the first. Mary Ann is now attending 
Portland University conducted by the Holy Cross 
Fathers. She is an organist and played seven 
Christmas Day Classes including Midnight Mass. 
Charles was married to Rosemary Irene Kelly of 
Portland on January 15 at St. Rose's Church. Rev. 
Francis P. Wood, S.J., cousin of the bride, offici­
ated at tlie ceremony. The Charles Folcys arc now 
at home in Seattle, Wash., where Charles is a jun­
ior engineer with Boeing Aircraft, Home address 
at tlic Charles FoIe>-s is as foUows: 1213 139lii S.W., 
Seattle, Washington, Apartment 202. 
LAWRENCE "BUCK" SHAW who had reigiied as head coach of the professional San Francisco 49'ers football team since it was organized, resigned from that organization and was verj* quickly en­gaged as "special consuitant" to the new Air Force .'\cadcm>''s football staff at Denver, Colo. It goes with much emphasis that the Air Force made no mistake. 
CLARENCE "PAT" MANION was principal 

speaker at the tenth annual dinner-meeting of the 
Friendly Sons of St. Patrick at tlic Hotel Sterling, 
\Vilkes-Barre, Pa. This is Pat's tliird appearance at 
the annual I7th of Marcli dinner of this organ­
ization. 
Mrs. Helen Heidelman of Altadena, Calif., widow 

of EUGENE who in our undergraduate days teamed 
up with BILL MURPHY to help solve our book­
store problems, \vrttcs to say that she and the sons 
are well, also, that they are continuing and even 
expanding the fine auto parts business started by 
Gene in Los Angeles years ago. Helen says she 
has not seen LEO WARD for a long time but does 
frequently sec BOB AVTUGHT, an ND grad who 
has a j<Ajblag parts operation ia Pasadena. 
JIM SHA^V of Des Moines and DAN YOUNG 

from the Iron Range xisited the Twin Cities in 
February-. JERRY BARRETT of Omaha was a \-is­

iior by telephone. 
Others heard from at Christmas include the 

.AARON HUGUENARDS of South Bend, the ED­
WIN J. BYRNES, Natchez, Miss., and the JOHN 
PAUL CULLENS, ^Vauwatosa, Wis. 
FRANK OTT of Herkimer, New York, wrote a 

very fine letter to Aaron Hugucnard and later kind­
ly sent it on to us. Ma>'be in tJic next issue we 
can publish it in total, or some clioice tidbits 
from it. 
ALBERT PICKS, JR., now resides at 7325 Tatum Blvd., Phoenix, Arizona. Al and Mrs. Picks had a four-month \'isit in Europe last year, seeing France, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Holland and Belgium. Tliey liked Spain, Italy and Germany best. Al and witc have ttvo grandcfiildren now. 
Many thanks to all who sent most welcome greet­ings at Christmas. All who did so are not men­tioned here due to your secretar>''s rush to get this material to ND in time for publication. Maybe we can catch up the loose ends next time. 
IQ^ O Louis V. Bruggncr 
• '^ ^ 2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
NOW WE'RE GETTING SO.MEWHERE . . . RUSTY KENNEDY wrote 'way last summer, quote: "FR.ANCIS X. DISNEY is Director of Plan­ning for some section of the New York State gov­ernment. From Disney I learned that JOHN FO­GARTY .. . in Panama . . . represents a number ol American companies in South America." Regarding llie death of CHARLIE MARTIN, JACK NORTON had this to say: "at our 30ih 

34 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
RAYMOND W. DURST, '26 

An alumnus and outstanding friend of the University of Notre Dame has risen to the leadership of one of Amer­ica's top radio and T V manufacturing firms—a firm which he helped found. The Hallicrafters Co. has named as its new president Raymond W. Durst, '26^ fonnerly executive vice president of the organization. 
Ray is ^veIl-known on the campus as an entliusiastic backer oi the univer­sity's expansion and improvement pro­grams. In the past he has %von -wide praise as a speaker at student functions. 
West Point man^ Bill Halligan. and Ray, in 1936 "hooked up together in business to become the world's largest builders of short-wave communications radio sets." In this partnership Ray's influence has apparently been dynamic. 
Ray ^vas reared and received his ele­mentar)' school education in Waukegan. He took a bachelor's in commerce from Notre Dame in 1926 and subsequently completed a t\vo-year business course at Nordiwestem. He began his business career as an accountant for the Fan-steel Products Company of North Chi­cago, III., and before he j'oined Echo-phone in 1928 was secretary-treasurer of the Ahbell Battery Container Cor­poration in Waukegan. 
Ray and his wife, Grace, Jive at 7601 Iowa Street, River Forest, Illinois. 
reunion Charlie told me he would have to take it s 
little easy .. . his heart was acting up .. . he was 
taking things in stride . . . Ircqucnily receiving 
Communion. ... " 
LYLE MILLER wrote a nice letter, mentioned/ 

his last contact with KEN KRIPPENE and asked 
for the latter's address (it*s 1220 North State Park­
way, Canterbury Court Apartment Hotel, Chicago). 
Lyie Writes he has "some important unfinished busi­
ness with Ken . . . never completed on account of 
graduation. .. . I am enjoying good health and 
have no complaints about business or otherwise." 
LAWRENCE STR.ABLE owns and operates the 

Lawrence Strabic Lumber Co. in Saginaw, Michi­
gan. He missed the CHARLIE MARTIN funeral 
because he was on a hunting trip and did not know 
about it. **Looking forward to the next reunion." 
FR/\NK NEITZEL, writing from Boise, Idaho, 

came up with a suggestion. At the 25tli reunion, 
he said, it was mentioned that GUS DESCH \vas 
ill with a heart condition, and nothing has been 
heard about the matter since. He asfcs that he be 
brought up to date. Gus, to you and any of your 
cronies reading this memo, I say, won't you please { 
drop me a line, telling us how you are, what you 
have been doing, etc, etc.? 
FATHER JOHN DUFFY sent me a Christmas card with a note from which I quote: '*. . . still active in national Legion, D.A.V. and permanent national chaplain of Defenders of Bataan and Cor­rcgidor . . . religious activities confined to this nural parish .. . 17 converts last year . . . bap­tized a World War I veteran on his death bed who had a signal devotion to Mary and learned to say the Rosary in France in 1918. His wife and two daughters and their husbands and families Joined the Church after^vard. Our Lady has been good to me in this Marian Year." 
MERLIN ROLWING reported in his usual metic­ulous fashion: "Last spring I was in Assumption, 
III. . . . recalled this was TONY JACKSON's home . . . drove up to his home . . . told the lady in . the yard I was looking for Tony, that I was an old friend. . . . She looked me over and called me by name . . . she is the former Hildegarde Vandewalle of Mishawaka. . . . Tony was over at his farm . . . came home later . . . had a long visit. - . . Tony has a son who is a Franciscan seminarian . . . said he had not been back at ND In some years." How about it, Tony, try it soon and pay me a visit. 
WALTER F. RAUBER is manager of the ap­paratus division of General Electric Co. with of­fices in Buffalo, N. V. He says he "moved to Buffalo a little over a year ago after 15 to 17 vears in Philadelphia and Washington. Pleased to find three classmates in Buffalo, VINCE BRO^VN. JOHN BYRNE and MARTY BRENNAN. See all of them on occasion. Marty and I generally meet at Rotary every Thursday. (Note to Marty and Walt: Could be we could get together in June if -<^ you can make tlte Rotar>' convention in Chicago. Write me—L. V. B.) 
CORNIE PFEIFFER crashed through wjth some notes and a V note also. Informs me that ED PFEIFFER, *22, and Comic formed an insurance agency in Loo\iil, Kentucky in 1927 and are doing all right, all right. Writes also that MERLIN ROmTN G *vas in Louisville at an insurance con­vention, as was PAUL CASTNER at a K.C. Con­vention. 
PAUL CASTNER, former Class Secretary, who knows what news star\'ation can be like, has not reported any news since he went out and I went in this office. 
To the extent that funds permit, JOE NYIKOS, our treasurer, has approved my enrollment of fu­ture decedents in our Class in the Holy Cross For­eign Mission Society's Purgatorial Society. This is J^ at the suggestion of the Holy Cross Fathers them-' selves, made on the occasion of the Charlie Martin Spiritual Bouquet offering. 
JOHN BVRNE was at the Soutiiern Cal football game, he says. He, too, sent me a long note and ^ a V note. Those V notes certainly help as insurance for the continuance of contemplated secretarial ac­tivities. John "missed the 30th reunion because of a slight heart attack and spent two months taking it eas>', just at the time of the reunion. Where Is KID ASHE? I used to see him when he was in Buffalo- (Tlie Kid's address is 38 Cambridge St., Rochester 17, N. Y.—L. V. B.) Tell that BILL VOSS that if he bats around the country, and gets to Buffalo and doesn't call me, I'll make a federal case out of it. . . . My son, John, Jr. and I were ac the Southern Cal game . . . stayed until Tuesday 
to enter John In sdiool. , . . Had a mar\-elous 
confab with DE.VN McC^\RTHY . . . spent most . y of the weekend with DON MILLER .. . also RED MAHER. . . > Saturday cvcnins turned into a fine session with ARCH ^VARD, MOOSE KRAUSE. FRANK LErVHY, BYRON KANALEY .. . and JACK GALLAGHER RUSTY (JOHN BYRNE, 
^ JR.—Ed.) is sold on ND . . . made Buffalo All-Star team this year . . . Western N. Y. Junior Olympic track team . . . hope he will be of some use to Tcrr>- or ALEX NVILSON. . . . Fm a grandfather . . . believe me tt*s fun. . . . My old roommate JOHN KELLEY is a doctor .. . oflices in Niagara Mohawk BIdg., Utica, N. Y. 
FATHER JAMES F. NOL^VN sent a beautiful Christmas card from his rector>' at St. Charles Borromeo's, Sugar Notch, Pa. 
HENRY BARNHART says he received my "newsy letter" the day after the appearance of an article in the Lima, Ohio, News Dec. 27, so he enclosed the article. It consisted among other things of a good picture of Henry with headlines an­nouncing his promotion to general manager of tlie construction equipment division of Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation. Judging from the picture Henry is the Bald One. "Barnhart" the News goes on to say, "has been associated with the local plant since 1928, alwa)*! tn the shovel and crane departments. He was vice-president of Lima Loco­motive Works before it became part of B-L-H." (Hcnr>' always was good with a shovel—Ed.) 
CLIFFORD B. WARD, Fort Wayne, Ind., news­paper editor, says his "health is good, current bills paid and political views sound (sic). Second son. Terr>', now a freshman in Brecn-Phillips Hall." He invites me in for a drink the next time I'm in Fort Wayne. Invitation noted and accepted. 
Also from Fort \Va>-ne, ED KREIMER reports receipt of a Christmas card from JULIUS HERZOG with a picture of Julius' granddaughter. "No mention of whereabouts of LEO MIXSON, but Texas IS a big state, having crossed it from El Paso to Tcxarkana on our way home from Cali' fornia. . . . Our daughter, Barbara, now has a brood of three, two boys and a girl. . . . See the 

• Cliff Wards occasionally but JOHN FLYNN and LES LOGAN never. . . . The latter is quite expert at bridge, according to the newspapers. I certainly would like to know what SPIKE FLYNN and CON GA\'N0R are doing." 
CORNELIUS A. ALT recently returned from a month's \-acation in South fVmerica. Explored the Inca country and acquired a vicuna coat. Saw plenty of llamas and Indians, but no ND men. Visited the late PROF. GVPARO's home town of Cuzco, Pcni. 
HANK L/VUERMAN u-rites from Menominee, Michigan: "It was our privilege to have TERRY BRENNfVN as speaker at a Holy Name breakfast, Sunday, Feb. 6, attended by about 800 members and sons. Arrangements were made for Tcrr>*'s appearance through JOHN PLOUFF, '52, and his dad, TO.Nf PLOUFF, '22. It was uncertain unu'I the last moment whether Terry could be with us because of the serious illness of his brother in Milwaukee. Tom had the Ansul Chemical Com­pany plane fly Terry to and from Milwaukee. The members of the Hlawathaland Club, scattered through the Upper Peninsula, came from many dis­tant points to be with us. Wc are hoping for a return engagement this summer." 
VISCEST D. aWANAUGH's qucstjonnaire in­dicates he taught English for several years at Rock­hurst College, Mt. St. Mary's College and Samp­son College and retired in 1950 due to illness and has since engaged in "lighter" work. 
FR.\NK DORIOT reported: "Saw REX EN­RIGHT, coacli of South Carolina, at Barbours\'ilIe, 
W. Va., where he was guest speaker at the annual high school banquet. Did very well. A little on the hefty side. Getting a little gray as most coaclics do." 
From GEORGE UHLMEYER: "For several years I have been sending Christmas cards to all '23 en­gineers. I hear regularly from ^VALT RAUBER, IV'ALT R.AUH, ROBERT QUINN and this year for the first time since 1923 I had a note from CLIFFORD DOLL of Louisville, Ky. 
From Phoenix, Arizona, came this information from ALBERT PICKS, JR.: "Sorry about Charlie Martin and the number of men who have passed on from the original crowd. I had hoped to be back for the 30th reunion but had just spent four months in Europe and It was just impossible to get away .. . hoping I can make the 35th . . . did not realize until reading your letter how many of the old gang were gone." Al is in the securities business with Dran, Witter & Co. of Phoenix. 
MARTY BRENNAN is now vice-president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company, Jiving in Buffalo, N. Y. His questionnaire indicates he was married "once" to Gcraldine R>-an, Chicago U., 
HON. FRANCIS T. McCURRTE, '27 
From a stockyard office boy to public defender! That is the story of Judge Francis T. McCurrie, '27, of Chicago, a Notre Dame man who has become a scourge to the under­world of America's second largest me­tropolis. 
Grime-fighter McCurrie —for a number of years a special lecturer at the law school of the University of Notre Dame—has "investigated and prosecuted every kind of crime on the statute book" and practiced law in every court in Illinois. 
Subsequent to a brief career as an office boy and switchboard operator at Morris and Company in the Chicago stockyaixls, Frank went to Notre Dame on a \vorking scholarship, and played frosh football. He was graduated in 1927 magna cum laztde from the university's law school and, after hurdling die Illinois state bar examin­ation, "practiced law m all courts of the state." 
Judge McCurrie is a past president of the University of Notre Dame Club of Chicago, a member of the Board of Governors of the Gatholic Lawyers' Guild, war-time adviser of three Chic­ago draft boards, veteran of World War II, and past grand knight of the Foit Dearborn Council of the Knights of Columbus. 
He and his ^vife and two children live at 8005 South Sangamon Street, Chicago. 

'23i and that he u*as hired in behalf of the present employer by John F. Gushing who donated the Gushing Engineering Building to ND. "Further deponent saith not." However from the grapevine of Marty's associates it is learned that Marty's career deserves more than his o^vn succinct men* tion. More anon. 
1 924 Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, CS.C. 
4001 Harcwood, N.E. 
Washington, D. C. 
3 0 yEAR REUNION JUNE lO'll'ia ^ 

1925 M n P- Hurley 
I TAi» J218 City Park Avenue 
Toledo, Ohio 

"RE.MEMBER THE .MAINE" thing in the life of every member of our Class arc those reunion dates of June 10, 11. 12. 
Your Secretary has had regional meetings since our North Carolina Reunion *'Wann Up." Two in Chicago and one in Cleveland. HANK f^lfRZER in Davenport and JOHN TRAYNOR have been kept informed. I hope to see the Detroit crowd within a few weeks. 
Speaking of Detroit—One of our active class­mates, GIL SCHAEFER, has had a severe heart attack this winter. Gil must stay in for three to six months and not work for a year to eighteen months. This word comes from Gil's son-in-law PETE KERNAN, '49, through the Alumni Office. Wc are sorry to hear this and We would like all you fellows to pray for Gil's speedy recovery. Your "Secretary" hopes to see him before this column goes to press. 
JOHN J. SHEEHAN of Scarsdale, president of Shcchan-Zari ^fotors. Inc., died December 28 at New Rochelle Hospital. Quoting the New York Times **Mr. Shechan's company, one of the largest distributors of Studebaker Automobiles, has offices and showrooms in New York at Broadway and 56th Street. 
*'Hc had been unth Studebaker organization since graduation from Notre Dame except for a period ot ser\'icc as a consultant to the War Production Board in World War II. He was prominent in ha community as a Roman Catholic layman. 
"He leaves his wife, Mrs. Blanche L' E Cuycr Sheehan, two sons, John Courtney Sheehan of Bos­ton and Thomas Sheehan of Scarsdale and a daugh­ter Mrs. John F. Hardesty of fVnnapolis, Md." 
This will come as a terrific shock to his Class­mates. JACK SC\LLr\N gave me this informa­tion in Chicago in January. Jack got the notice from JOHN A. BARTLEY. 
Thanks John—and we hope you will get as many fclloivs from the Metropolitan New York area to come back to our 30th. John Traynor will give you a hand. 
For you fellotvx who haven't come back to re­unions wc will quote in part from the "Manual for Class Officers" one item on ^'Reunions." 
*'For a nominal, actually below cost, registration fee $20.00 the members of the Class are supplied by the Alumni xVssociation and the University with pre-Reunion promotion, a room, on Friday and Saturday nights in one of the Campus residence halls, lunches and dinners of the weekend and a program of activities, both Class and General, to­gether with distinctive class insignia, and adequate liquid refreshments. 
**The secret of a successful Reunion is attend­ance. The stronger the cdass spirit, organization, and betwccn-Reunion activity, the better each Re­union becomes over the years." 
This class of '25 has experienced some great re­unions .. . in fact the largest to date for the size of our class so let's keep it up and make our 30th the BESTEST with tht: .MOSTEST. 
I have a few belated notes from the fellows who didn't make the deadline on the last ALUMNUS. 
JIM WRAPE of \Vrape and Hernly—Attorneys at law of Memphis, Tennessee, writes: "My dear John—I am sorry that it will be impossible for me to be present at the 'warm-up* reunion on N(K 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 35 

Chaplain (Major) Thomas P. Higgins officiates at the baptism ceremony of Lyndia Marlcnc Bosler, daughter of Lt- and Mrs. Robert J. Bosler as the God-parents, Lt and Mrs. Paul E. Braunlich and the two older Bosler children, Robert J., Jr., and Frank, look on. Both Lt. Bosler, '50, and Lt. Braunh'ch, '53, are stationed w'th the 79th Fight-Bomber Squadron at RAF Station, Woodbridge, England. 
vcmbcr 13th. I have a case out on the West Coast 

on November 15th and simply can't make it. 
"Give my best regards to everv'body and looking forward to seeing you at the June Reunion"— Thanks Jim, glad you will help break that record attendance in June. 
Speaking of the AVest Coast—I will move back a year and mention 1 heard indirectly from VER­NOX "TEX" RICKARD, '24, through a mutual Toledo friend who saw "Tex" thb last month. "Tex" looks fine and Paramount Studios keeps him ver>' busv—ajid when Paramount keeps you bus>-— YOU ARE SUCCESSFUL. Glad to hear from you "Tcv." Better get Paramount to fake movies of our 30th. 
Tliat would take the "Oscar" away from *'TIic Long Gray Line" because the Class of '25 may be gray but we arc young in heart, or will be over the weekend. 
It was good seeing the boys in Chicago again: LEO POWERS, GEORGE LAUGHLIX, VIRGIL F.AGAX, DOG STOKELY, JACK SCALLAX and CHUCK COLLIXS. These boys were going to con­tact every one around the Windy Cil>' and help come up w*ith a wortliwhilc project for our 30th. 
DOX MILLER called a meeting in Cleveland w'hen I was there in early February and we were the guests of EVIE KOHL at the Cleveland Ath­letic Club. I made a list of the gang and promptly lost it so I hope I didn't miss any. Ewe Kohl is tr\-ing to get some pearl handle canes for our 30th. GERRY MILLER, JOHX KAXE, DOX MILLER. 
I called FR.\XK STEEL in Akron last week. Frank will be back in June. 
BILL KRIDER will be on deck to help decorate the reunion (our 35th) of our Prep School Davs, We hope ROME DUG.\X, LEO McTERXAX, DAX LAMO.NX (STAN McGlVERX of Toledo %vill be there), JOHX HILLEXBRAXD, JACK SCALLAX, PAUL ROM\VEBER—It will be a real 
•'lifers reunion" and for some—our last, so come along, because ^'jt's later than you tJiink." 
ARMAXDO PORTA, formerly comptroller of the Studcbaker Corporation, has been appointed comptroller of the Studebaker-Packard Corporation according to James J. Nance, president. Armando will maintain his headquarters in the South Bend offices of the corporation. 

36 Sotrt Dome Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
JIM CROWLEY has been named chairman of the Pennsj'h'ania Athletic Commission by Governor George Leader. Jim will be head of a three-man agency charged with supervising boxing in the Keystone State. 
1926 J«^ J- ^y^ 
1 7&W 2458 Greenleaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois Class Secretary JOHN' RYAX writes: First of all let me call your attention to the new address at the top of the column. Not much change, only 24- numbers, and still in the same Chicago Xorth Side apartment building. Same telephone number—Hollycourt 5-3597—and the same mail man who will gladly deliver all mail ad­dressed to the secretary' by the members of the Glass of 1926. Perhaps the new number will at­tract letters from old friends. 
Oftentimes IVe tliought that what tlie Class'of '26 needed was a YOUXGER man as secretary. But he would need younger classmates to send in the material. And I guess not one of us is getting any younger. Tlie old *'pipe and slippers** stage is with us and I, for one, don't seem to muster the ambition to spend evenings writing letters to get news. The same, by the lack of news, proves true w-ith the rest of you. As a result the 1926 Column just •withers on llic vine. 
It has been said of the s>'ndicated columnists that when their columns (and inspirations) fall away they include something of a controversial nature which produces replies and gives them some ma­terial to bolster up the space. Perhaps it might work here. Accordingly— 
Many of the members of tlie class have had sons graduate at XD or presently have sons in the stu­dent body. Your secretary makes this claim: He is the first member of the class to have a GRAND­SOX at XD. Can any one of you tie that, or beat it? I'll accept a "beat" only if the lime is prior to tlie Fall of '54. ' 
All of you read in the prerious ALUMNUS the sad news of BILL DOOLEY*s death. Remember })im in your prayers. The Claas had a Mass lajd on tfie campus for the repose of his sou]. Bill will be missed by '26 for he was one of our 
stalwarts. 
From JOE SHEA (Hotel Statlcr, Xcw York) 

your secretary received a note and a clipping tell­
ing of the dcatii of DR. JOHX YOCHE.M in/ 
Sandusky, Ohio. John was with us for a couple 
of years before going on to medical scliool. May 
his soul rest in peace. 
The s>'mp3thy of the class goes to our president, 

RAY DUl^T, and Mrs. Durst in the recent loss 
of their son, Ra\-mond, Jr., who had been a stu­
dent at XD until hb illness forced him to leave 
school. 
Your secretary' has just completed a rather ex­

tended research job. I've searched and re-searched 
and finally came up with numerous scraps of paper 
bearing notations about members of the Class of 
*26. In more or less dironological order here 
they arc: 
Did I ever report that I bumped into BILL. 

REID at one of the football games last Fall? 
Just a few minutes conversation so nothing more 
to report except that Bill was looking fine. How 
about a first hand report on yourself, Bill? "r' 
Talked with JACK EXDRES by phone late in November. Jack had just returned from a five-week trip through Europe. He would not agree that the Federal Rescr\'e Bank business was THAT good but told me that the basis of the trip u-as to witness his son's ordination in Rome. Another son is returning from scr\icc to ND to complete his studies. 
At about the same time I also talked to JIM KELLEGH/\X who told me his son had returned from Army scr\ice and was back at NT) to com­plete his Law. 
About the middle of December while having lunch at the Palmer House with my boss and a customer I excused myself and went over to the en­trance to say "Hello" to DR. JERRY HAYES. Jerry \v»s here for an obstetrical convention hut was thinking of skipping the afternoon session that day to go out and bat the fat with JOHN "^ TUOHY. Jerr>- said he had a daughter at Trinity, a son at NT), another son planning to enter the 
Benedictines and two youngsters at home. 
At the Chicago Club's Communion breakfast I bumped into TY BULGER; as near as we could recall this was the first time since We left KD. Ty was not hard to recognize as he looks much as he did at school. 
ART HALEY arranged for. and served, the Nfa55 for BILL DOOLEY. Bill had been perform­ing this duty for many years and arranged for many Masses for deceased '2Scrs. In talking with Art he told me that one of his sons, a ^farine Lieutenant, has returned from Korea and would complete his tour of duty in June. Another son is at Loyola Medical School and a third son is a soph at ND. 
Your Treasurer and Sccretar>* were having lunch ,-v_ one day recently when Trcas. GEORGE HART­XETT remarked to Sec. JOHX RYAN, "That's CHARLIE HOLLOWAY sitting at the next table." Sa>-5 I to him, "You recognized him? Charlie hasn't changed much." Sa>-s he to me, "No, I recognized his voice." Finally we broke in and had a few minutes chat witli Charlie. As •j'ou may or may not know, Charlie is at Marshall Field's in Chicago. He manages to keep busy as manager of the furniture, floor coverings and draperies de­partments. He might run another one or two on the side, I don't know. Let us know if I missed, CharHe. 
George asked if I'd heard anything from, or of JERRY McDERMOTT or BUD BARR. How about you t%vo fellows dropping me a note so I can pass the word to George and the rest of the class? Ho^v about anybody dropping me a note for this column? ;, 
Had my annual betwecn-halves chat ^vith STEVE PIETROmCZ at the ND-Northwestern basketball game in Januarv-. Steve asked if I'd seen JIM ROX/\X at that game but we finally decided he u-as missing. Jim manages to keep bus>' with his law practice, his top-side spot in local K. of C. actinties and his position as Illinois State Chairman of that same outfit that PAUL BUTLER dialrmans nationally. Speaking of things political (Who's talking politics?) I see by the papers that SEX­ATOR-ART BIDWLL is president pro-tem of the Illinois State Senate. 
In longhand this looks like a lot of gab. But that type the ALUMNUS uses will cut it down consider­ably. However, if you ^ance back you'll notice mention of several '26ers whose sons are at XD. In previous columns we have mentioned others. But there probably arc others tvhosc sons arc at XD, ^ have graduated, or arc preparing to go there. Let v mc know and we'll see to it that the next ALUM­NUS reports it. Also Grandpa Ryan will stand on his report of the first GRANDSON at ND. Match Or beat It if you can! 
. June 1926~June 1956. ANTiat plans arc YOU \niaking for returning to the campus for our 30th Annivcrsar>"? 
Hon. JOSEPH A. FRISKE is a member of tlic Municipal Court Committee of the 1955 Saginaw County (Michigan) Bar Association. 
Father BERNARD COUGHLIN is Dean of Stu­dents at St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minnesota. He x^'as recently featured in the Sunday magazine section of the St. Paul Pioneer Press. 
1097 Steve Ronay I 7A# 2829 Applctree Lane South Bend} Indiana 
Your secretary hopes that the following letter from JOHN DAILEY will start an a\-alanche of 

-mail from the Class of '27. A college prof has little cliance to sec any of Ins classmates; so I'm depending on you fellows to keep me posted on what's happening to you and other members of the class. There's more space ax-ailable to us in the ALUMNUS than IVc been able to fill. 
"Dear Steve: 

"Whenever I open the ALUMNUS to see what is happening to the Class of '27, I am confronted with the usual blank space. I hope that this letter will cause some of my distinguislied classmates to break loose and let us know how they are doing, twenty-eight years later. 
"Since I now have a son, Jnn, enrolled as a Freshman at Notre Dame and his twin sister en­rolled as a Freshman at St. Mary's, I have been to Soutli Bend several times since September. While driving do\vn St. ^rar>-'s lane* one evening, we gave a ride to a couple of Notre Dame Sophomores. One of the young men, whose facial characteristics ivere familiar, proved to be the son of MARC FIEHRER. I enjoyed telling him how his popular and brilliant father (no cliarge. Marc) had also visited St. Mar>''s some twenty-eight years ago while courting the now NIrs. Fiehrer. 
"At the Purdue game, I sav*- my cousin, GENE BRENNAN of Chicago. Gene is the proud father of two Notre Dame students, one a Sophomore and one a Junior. 
"In October returning from San Francisco on the train. I had the pleasure of meeting and talking ' with RIP MILLER of the Class of '25, who was returning from the Naw-Stanford game. Rip is certainly doing an excellent job at the Na^-al Academy. 
,'- "Of course, like all the rest of his classmates, I am quite proud of PAUL BUTLER. With best regards." 
TOMMY GREEN received quite a writeup re­cently in the Houston Chronicle on the occasion of a visit made to that area by HARRV STUHL­DREHER who now Is doing public relations for 
U. S. Steel. 
AL SMITH, LaPorte, Ind., lawyer, has been mentioned as a candidate V» succeed Paul Butler as national Democratic committeeman for Indiana. 
1928 l-o">s F. Buckley 
• 'AW J253 North Central Avenue Chicago 31, Illinois 

The Class of 1928 lost a good friend in the death of BILL DOOLEY. He was of great assistance in planning and promoting our famous 20-year reunion and sang with the glee club at that time. ANDY BOYLE, ED QUINN, RON RICH and I attended Bill's funeral at Notre Dame. Many of you will remember DAVE CrVMPBELL of the Notre Dame English Department who always attended our re­unions. I attended Dave's funeral in December in South Bend. We will also miss FATHER ILL, C.S.C, who died In February-. Please remember these good friends of our class in your prayers. 
BERNIE GARBE R sent a clipping announcing the' appointment of HERB McCABE as Vice President in tlie Public Utilities Division of the banking department of the Guaranty Trust Company of New York. Herb is also a Director in the Nc%v Jersey Natural Gas Co. His older boy, Peter, is a freshman in the Foreign Service School at George­town. His younger boy, Jay, is a sophomore at Canterbury- School in New Milford, Conn. Herb gets to Notre Dame once a season for a football game. He sees JIM McSORLEY and LOUIS CrVRR. Lou is \^ce President and ^fanager of the Coast Cities Coaches, Inc., in Asbury Park, N. J. Lou^s boy is an excellent basketball player and a regular on the High School team, even though he b only a sophomore. Lou has four cliildren rang­ing in age from 13 to 19. 
GEORGE KELLY, Assistant Managing Editor of the Youngstown \1ndicator, sent some excellent prints of JIM SHOCKNESSY, Chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission, who had one of the principal roles on December 1 when the first sec­tion of the Ohio turnpike was opened to traffic. (Ed. Note: Jim is a "Spotlight Alumnus" in this issue.) 
JOHN RICKARD. ED McKEOWN, HOWIE PH.\LIN, DICK PHELAN and BILL KEARNEY attended the inauguration of BERNARD J. KOR­ZEN (Korzenski) as Clerk of the Probate Court of Cook Coointy on December 6, 1954. 
PAT aVNNY of Cle\-cland was elected to the /VlumnI Board of Directors. Pat, who Is General Attorney for the Erie Railroad Company, has four daughters and also one son, who is a Sophomore at Notre Dame. He was President of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland in 1935. Pat is the fifth member of our class to ser^•c as members of the Alumni Board of Directors—they were TOM BYRNE, BILL JONES, JOE MORRISSEY, and your Class Secre­tary. Pat is a veteran of World War I, having enlisted in the Xa\y at age 17 ia 1917. TIic only other World War I veteran classmate of whom I am aware is MARTIN J. KIRWAN, who also was 
Robert Leonard, '38, and his family including sons Ed and Pat, Mrs. Leonard, and daughter Terry. Bob lives in Kinston, N. C, and is an executive with DuPont*s dacron division. 
in the Navy in 19I&-19. Martin is now a civil en­gineer with the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers. "Hs is married and lives In Louisville. Are there any other World War I classmates? 
BILL LEAHY, BILL ^^JRPHY, JIM ALLAN, JUDGE JOHN LYONS, JOHN RICKARD, DICK PHELAN, BILL KEARNEY and your Class Secre­tary attended the ^fass and Communion breakfast of the Chicago Notre Dame Club in December. BILL LErVHY is President of the Wm. H. Leahy Co., Inc., jobbers of special purpose foods. Bill has two sons, age 13 and 17. JIM ALLAN is Casualty in­surance claim super^'uor with the Luinbenaen's Mutual Casualty Co. Jim has one son, age 16. Judge JOHN LYONS, who was elected to the Superior Court in November, has been assigned to the Criminal Court, John was quite ill recently with pneumonia. JOHN RICKARD, Ifanagcr, Production Control Department, Armour and Com­pany, has fi\'e children ages 13 to 23. He has one son in the U. S. Navy and another at St. ifary*s College in ^VInona. One daughter is with the Traffic Department of the Illinois Central Railroad. BILL KEARNEY, who has five children ages 4 to 15,Vand DICK PHELAN, who has three sons age 10 to 18, are In private law practice and share the same office with BERT KORZEN. BILL MURPHY, the only bachelor In the group, Is liis­trict manager for the Dlversey Corp., Industrial Chcmicab and Compounds. 
FR/\NK CREiVDOX, who vacationed in Califor­nia and attended the annual meeting of the Amer­ican Mosquito Control Association there, saw a number of classmates. He spent some time with ART CANTY, who is with the Prudential Insur­ance Company of America In Los Angeles. Art has two children. He Is a grandfather and has a son at California State Poly College. Frank saw DICK ELPERS, who Is with radio station KFAC and Is also located in the Prudential Building In Los An­geles. Dick is still single. Frank also spent some time ^vith B.\RT McHUGH, who has a toy shop at Laguna Beach, California. Hugh is married. He sees .\RT PARISIEN. who is with Kaiser Steel Co. in Fontant, California. Frank reports that MER­^VYN ACGELER is practidny Jaw and is in politics in Santa Monica. He also mentioned that JOHN WALLACE Is in the real estate loans busi­ness in Beverly Hills. John, as •j-ou know, has two daughters who are nuns and another daughter at Immaculate Heart College in Hollywood. 
Thanks to ED QUiNN, Head of the Department 

of Guidance at Notre Dame, and with the splendid 
cooperation of JOHN CACKLEY and his secretary, 
Irene Trippel, I am able to give you a report on 
the 38 sons of '28 men who are no%v attending 
Notre Dame. The breakdown by classes is 12 
freshmen, 14 sophomores, 8 juniors, and 4 seniors. 
The distribution by Colleges is 13 In Arts and Let­
ters, II Commerce^ 12 Engineering and two Science. 
Tliree classmates, HENRY AL\SSMAN, JOE S. MORRISSEY and RON RICH each have two sons at NT). The list Includes sons of three of our de­ceased classmates. FRANK BEGGAN, JOE HE­BERT and JOHN McMAHOS, Other classmates with a son at NTJ arc as follows: GORDON BEN­NETT, PAT CAN'NY, JOHN CARUN, LESTER GARRIG, PHIL CENEDELLA, iUURICE CON­LEY, DON CORBETT. FRANK DONOVAN, ROBERT GILLESPIE, PETE GALLAGHER, GEORGE HANEY. ROBERT HUETZ, GUS JEN­KINS, BILL KIRW.AN, JOHN LEITZINGER. ED McCLARNON, BILL .McGEE, HAYES MURPHY, TOM NOON, ED PHILLBIN. AL SCHNURR, FRANCIS SCHROEDER, NORB SEIDENSTICK­ER, JACK SHEEDY, FRED SWITZER, ED THO­MAN. BURT TOEPP and JOHN CULLEN. 
It is great to be able to give you a report on a number of the Xellows about whom we have not had news in some time. DON 0*MEARA re­cently announced the opening of the Rose Room at 334 South Jefferson Street, Peoria, Illinois, 
ART HOLTON, Cdr. U.S.N.R., U located at 2610 4Ist St. .N.W., Washington, D. C., where be is teaching and doing graduate work. Art recently received his Master's degree in education at George Washington University. He also did graduate work In history at Georgetown University. Art was In the U. S. Na\-y for eleven years from I« 2 to 1953. 
LES CARRIG is the owner of an insecticide spraying company In Omaha, Nebraska. Les's boy Is a senior at Notre Dame. JOHN E. CVRLIN of Mentor, Kansas, has a daughter, age 10 and a son a freshman in Commerce at Notre Dame. In addition to his Skelgas-Skeltane Service, Inc., In Salina, Kansas, John Is a stockman-farmer. 
Dr. BILL McGEE, after having lived in South­west Virginia for five years, moved to AIva» Ken­tucky, to take over an Industrial and private prac-
Nolre Dame AtumnuSt May-June, 195S 37 
PHIL M. CANx\LE, '40 
A Memphis ti-affic court judge—a 

1940 graduate of tlie University of 
Notre Dame—has bj" an ovenvhelming 
margin been nominated to succeed to 
the post of attorney general of Shelby 
Count)', Tenn.—and in so being hon­
ored he not only has received tlie en­
dorsement of his county's .bar assoc­
iation but also has earned the plaudits 
of tlie governor of his state. He is 
Phil M. CanalCj who garnered 360 
bar association votes for the liigh ofKce 
in comparison to 87 for his nearest 
rival. 
In Nashville, Tennessee Governor 

Frank Clement indicated that he will 
appoint the Memphis judge to the 
position. "I am highly pleased to learn 
of Judge Canale's nomination," praised 
Clement. "Since we were in law school 
together (at Vanderbilt) I have had 
the highest regard for his integrity 
and ability." 
Before becoming a city traffic court 

judge in 1952, Pliil had been an 
assistant attorney general. Prior to 
that he ser\'ed in his father's law firm. 
After receiving an A.B. degree at 

Notre Dame, he studied law at Van­
derbiJL He entered the army as a 
private in 1941 and emerged as a 
major four years later after service in 
Africa, Sicily, and Italy. He is mar­
ried and lives at 3406 Northwood 
Drive, Memphis. 

I 38 Xotre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
ticc clime in connection with a large coal company. He u-ill later be afiiliated with two of the U.M.W.A. hospitals now under construction. Bill's son is a sophomore prc~mcdic at Notre Dame. His daughter is now finishing high school. 
ART GLEASON, who is with Goodrich Tire Co. in Akron, Ohio, gave mc a report on his daughter and our God-child, Virginia, who is following in her mother's footsteps in teaching physical educa­tion in South Bend. Art also has a daughter in Santa Barbara, California, a married son in Akron, and a son in grade school. Art expects to become a grandfather this spring. 
ED McCLARNON, who is Claim Manager in the Albany, X. Y., Brandi of Travelers Insurance Com­pany, was recently admitted to the New York State Bar .Association. In addition to hanng a son a sophomore in Engineering at Notre Dame, Ed has two daughters and also a son attending ^lil­ford Novitiate. Ed was one of our first grand­fathers in the class. 
BERNIE GARBER reports that LARRY CUL­LINEY, FR.\NK DUQUETTE and CARL PET­TERSCH \-isitcd Bemie's home in Katonah, N. Y., to view our 25-ycar reunion film in December. Bemie mentioned that the film is "a fine record of a great occasion." He also noted it was good to meet QVRL PETTERSCH again, as he had not seen him since graduation. As you know, Cari has his doctorate and is Associate Professor of Amer­ican History* and Government at Danbury Teachers College, Danburv', Conn. Bemie also reported that JOHN ANTUS was in the hospital for rest and obser\-ation at that time. 
JOHN DAVIS of Oswego, N. Y., and BILL K1R^^*/VN of Iowa City, Iowa, were in Chicago for the furniture mart recently. John has a daugh­ter at St. Mao's. He attended Mass at Old St. Mary's Church while in Chicago and heard FR(\NK CREiVDON sing with the Paulist Choir. 
J. HARVEY DALY, who has been Industrial and Public Relations Director for the Giant Food Department Stores for some time, has now estab­lished his own personnel and industrial manage­ment office in Washington, D. C. 
FATHER MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., con­ducted another very successful Union-Management Conference at Notre Dame in February. I was pleased to serve on the Conference Committee this year. LEO WALSH was the only other *28 man who attended the conference. Leo is an arbitrator for the American Arbitration Committee and an attDme>' in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Leo has three adopted children, ages 10 to 15. He has served as Grand Knight of the Knights of Co­lumbus. He is active in the Catholic Service Board and the Board of Family Service Association. Leo is secretary- of the Kent County Democratic Com­mittee. He has served as arbitrator in labor dis­putes in the Grand Rapids and the Detroit area. He has also ser\'ed on several Governor's commis­sions for the settlement of titility labor disputes under the Michigan Labor Mediation Act. Speak­ing of labor legislation reminds me that I had occasion to read in my class at Loyola University an e-reellent article by JOE BREIG on "right-to­work" laws which appeared in Tlie New Worid.. 
I appreciated recei\ing a number of Christmas cards and notes from classmates. \1NCE CAR­NEY'S card included a picture of his fine family of six children, ranging in age from 5 to 15. Tlie FRANK DONOVAN card carried a picture of his family taken on his twenty-fifth wedding anniver­sary and the day of his son's marriage. Frank's other son is a sophomore in Commerce at Notre Dame and his daughter is a senior at Barat College. 
FATHER ANDY MULREANY, C.S.C., added a note to his card advising that he will continue to remember the classmates eadi day. It was nice to receive an attractive desk calendar from JERRY BIGGE who did sucli a great job on organizing and conducting the '28 band at the reunion. Jerry is with Brown and Bigelow in St. Paul. 
I am pleased to be a grandfather for the second time. I am aware of other classmates, each with at least two granddiildren. ED McCLAR-NON, ED QUINN, FRED RUIZ, JOHN FORGE and TERENCE DONAHUE. On the basis of my last report, ART CANTY and GENE FARRELL had one grandchild each. How about bringing my vital statistics up to date, both as to grandchildren and children born recently? 
TOM MAHON, Minnesota State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus, was in Chicago for a K. of C. meeting, but unfortunately I was out of town at the time. Tom, who is special agent in St. Paul for 
DONNELLY P. McDONALD, JR., '47 
A JAYCEE "Man of the Year" >. and tlie "young man who contributed most to community betterment" of Fort Waj-ne, Ind., in 1954 is a Notre Dame man, class of '47. He is Don­nelly P. McDonald Jr.—bank execu­tive, civic leader, and prominent fig­ure in Indiana politics. 
Donnelly, is the newly elected treas­urer of Fort ^Va)'ne's Peoples' Trust and Savings, Co., a director of the Indiana State Junior Chamber of Commerce, and the organizer of a->­state-wide campaign in behalf of the "Home Rule" amendment proposed for the Indiana Constitution. As an active Republican, he is a precinct committeeman and in 1954 he served as a delegate to his party's state con­vention. He has been assisted in or­ganizing and promoting the campaign for Indiana's Home Rule Constitu­tional amendment by Prof. F. A. Her-mens of Notre Dame's Political Science Department. -'•^' 
An outstanding force for civic im­provement is this "Spotlight Alum­nus." Fort Wayne's Junior Chamber of Commerce named him as its "Young Man of the Year" for 1954. The versatile and energetic McDonald is a former YMCA director, one-time treasurer of the Allen County Cancer Society and the Allen County League for the Blind, and is a vigorous work­er for his city's Junior Achievement , and United Fund projects. ^ 
the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, has two children, ages 7 and 11. FATHER JIM X(cSHANE, who Is still at Sacred Heart Church in Denver, will offer his annual Mass 
"vfor the living members of the Class of 1928 on April 28tli of this year. Wc certainly appreciate Father's remembering us annually in this manner. Father Jim mentioned that Judge AL FR/\NTZ sen'cs with him on the Scholarship Committee of the Denver Notre Dame Club. Father reports that ZENO STANDT, '30, was in his annual sliow on March 17 in Denver. Father also sees GENE HOUGH, who has a son in the air force. 
VINCE aVRNEY called on his way through Chicago from Tucson, Arizona. Vince, you will remember, was responsible for the famous '28 shirts and tics at our 25-ycar reunion. He reported that he saw JOE BRANNON in Phoenix for the first" time since graduation. Joe, who is District Manager for Arizona for Sears Roebuck & Co., has three children var^'ing in ages from 2 to 12 years. I am on the mailing list to receive Joe's periodic report to his Scars employees, whicli I 
f find vcr>' interesting as they arc written in the old Bnmnon style. Joe ser\'cd as a Navy Lt. Com­mander in World War 11 with about 42 months active duty. VINCE CARNEY also mentioned that he had heard from JOHN HERBERT who com­roented on how much he had enjoyed our last reunion and that he was looking forward to the 30th. John is a salesman for Will & Baunier Candle Company and is located in Boston, ^fass. He has two children, 8 and 10 years of age. 
I regret to report that Judge JOHN CULUNAN has been ill for several months. He was hospitalized at New York's Roosevelt Hospital for three months and continued bis con\'alcsccncc at Fort Lauder­dale, Florida, this winter. John has made excellent progress and expects to be able to return to private law practice in July. In the meantime he has re­signed his judicial ofHce after twelve years on the 
J.Superior Court of Connecticut. John has our most jincerc wishes for a speedy recovery. 
1929 ^o'^^ J- I'^unkett 
Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

GEORGE A. BR^MJTIGAM, State Attorney in ^(iami, FJa., has been au-arded the Bolivarian Merit Order by the International League for Boliv­arian Action. 
JOE WHALEN is a new member of the Notre Dame Alumni ^Vssociation Board of Directors. 
BILL CRONIN, Oakland, Calif., visited the campus in January. 
PAUL BARTHOLOMEW, professor of Political Science at Notre Dame, took a group of Notre • Dame and St. Mar>-'s students to Washington, D. C., this winter for a tour of the nation's capital. 
Z& ytAR. REUNION JUNE 10 ll*ia 

193 0 Devcrc Plunkett 
• ''**' O'Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 
^ When this copy of the ALUMNUS reaches you, you. \rill likely be completing your preparations for 
- the trip to South Bend and the Silver Anniversary rcunloa. If any more reminders are needed, this issue of the magazine should be full of reunion news. 
Most of the fellows listed below will surely be at Lyons Hall next month for the doings. For ex­ample, ED REDMOND wrote some time ago that he was expecting to be out for the 25th meeting. Ed, residing in Escondido, California, with his wife Tcrese and sLx children, is vice-president of Golf-craft, • Inc. They manufacture golf chibs and sell throughout the country. Odd that Ed Redmond should become connected with that product—a golf club. TOM KEEGAN, practicing law in Rock­ford, Illinois, says he sees KARL BRENNAX and AL MONTI frequently, but would like to get some news trom JACK .McGEE, SPIKE ENGLAND, BO 
J^RICHARDS and MURRAY HICKEY LEY. Tom served as first secretary of a Notre Dame Club of 
Vice-President Richard Nixon posed with a few future Notre Darners when he v'isited Colon, Panama. Others in photo include the Bishop of Colon and Joe Harrington, '39 (left), president of the American Society in Panama. 
Rockford when it iv-as organized. He did not men­tion the Reunion, but will surely be here. 
La^v^cr CH.\RLIE ESOLA of East Chicago, In­diana, ^vas Republican candidate for Congress In the First District of Indiana in 1954. Other public service assignments he has had are District Com­mander oF the ^Vmerican Legion and chairman of Lake County tMcohoHc Beverage Board. Charlie frequently sees TIL\D H.\VRAN, ROGER G^L­LAH/VX, and BEN SCHWARTZ, all of whom should drive in here for the Reunion. 
PAUL FARMER is Manager of the Window Division of the Interstate Glass Co., here in South Bend. Had a big year in '54- at his home: wedding anniversary, son Paul, Jr. got married as did daugh­ter Marie, son Bill graduated from ND in Archi­tecture; otherwise nothing happened in that house­hold that year. ANDY MLVN expects to be at Xotrc Dame for the June reunion. He was here for the 1950 affair, and has a son here to visit during the regular year. Another campus visitor of not so long ago was VIC MARTZELL who also has a son studying on the campus. He visited with DICK SULLn^VN and LOU H^\SLEY, and if he makes the 25th reunion he should be able to contact TOM KERRIG.VN, JINf WALSH, BILL KNAPP, and JIM McDER.MOTT. Vic resides in Shrcve­port, Louisiana, and is \'ice-President of the Su­perior Iron U'orks and Supply Company there. 
BUD ROSEWARNE is a general insurance agent in Grand Rapids where he makes his home (East Grand Rapids) with wife Lucille and five children. With the distance so short Bud should be driving here with some other Grand Rapids and Kalamazoo alumni, and then should be able to sec JIM MUR­R^VY, TED RY.\N, JIM DEELY, FRANK MOSH­ER, BILL HALLISEY and maybe even ALEJAN­DRO RIVERA from Santiago, Chile. 
JOHN O'AfALLEY has been assistant corporation counsel for Citv of Chicago for the past 14 years. He mentioned that WALTER O'MALLEY, judge of city court in Aurora, had served as \isiting judge in Cook County. No doubt that the O'^falleys should find it easy to come over from Chicago for most of the reunion. 
BILL CLE.-\R has been station manager of 
•WTtTA in Altoona, Penns>']\*ania. \\'hen he comes out for the reunion he can check over similar facili­ties of the University, the student station WNDU, WHOT radio in South Bend, and AVNDU-TV now a-building. 
SAM SIL\'ESTRO will be on hand in June for the Silver Jubilee, joining a big delegation out of Ohio. Sam is a district manager for the Kelite Products, Inc., of Chicago. Saj'S he hopes to see DOC O'SHAUGHNESSY at the reunion. JLM DEELY, the assistant vice-president of the Brook­lyn Union Gas Company, resides in Yonkers ^vith his wife and daughter Joan. He should be joining TOM LANTRY, JIM DILLEY, Tlif TOOMEY and company coming out of New York for the reunion. 
KEN REXSTREW moved out to Des Moines after spending sic years in South Bend, 1945 to 1951. He is sales manager for Roycroft Iowa Com­pany. Served as Vice-President of the Des Nfoines ND alumni club. Should make a visit to South Bend serve double purpose. No doubt will make the reunion next month. 
ED SWEENEY, an Internal Revenue Agent, should be coming out this way in June. It is a year or more since he had some surgery, and should be in good shape. Ed had been active in the ^^ohawk Valley alumni club. He resides in Utica, New York. 
FATHER ROBERT SAS'EENEY, CS.C , is stUI Director of the University of Portland Foundation. We hope to see him back on the campus for the 25th anniversary reunion, but we may be violating protocol by having one Foundation Director walk into the bailiwick of another Foundation. Father Sweeney was awarded in 1954 the George Washing­ton Gold Medal for a graduation address from Freedoms Foundation. (Hm! Another foundation muscling in!) 
LEO J. KENNELLY is a Sales Supervisor in Toledo, Ohio. He has two sons who should be headed eventually to^v-ard Notre Dome. Another Ohioan, LEO J. SCANLON \**as elected fcnir con­secutive terms to the Prosecuting Attorney's office in Crawford County, Ohio. Declining appointment of Common Pleas Judge by Governor Lausche, Leo is now in private law practice in Crestline and Bucyrus, Ohio. We hope to see Leo join that bunch of Buckeyes who will be coming this way next month, CHUCK ROHR. COZY KOZ.\K, the CANNONS, JOE RYAN, NORM BRADLEY, FATHER RAY TOTTEN, JIM LEAHY, and many others. 
L.ARRY CRONIN visited the campus recently when he attended tlie Labor Arbitration Conference. Larry is in labor relations work with the Pabst Brewery of Milwaukee. Vfc tried to work him into a meeting of the local reunion committee, but be had to get back to Milwaukee and thereby missed our session. He should be on hand for the June meeting. 
Congratulations are in order for DR. ED YORKE on the publication of his recent book *'SaIt and the Heart." Dr. Yorke resides at Linden, New Jersey. 
GEORGE WINKLER sent along a ne\%-s clipping telling of a bad fire suffered by J.ACK FOLK's lum­ber company in Amitj-villc, New York. George had tried to contact Jack after the news of this bad luck, but had missed connections. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June, 195S 39 

Mr. and Mrs. Gene O'Reilly, '35, and their family. Photo docs not include Joseph who was bom in 1953. 
Next issue this column should be loaded with nw^-s gleaned from the conversations In tlic arch­way at Lyons Hall. From notes already received and from grapevine Haslies, the attendance this June will break all records. ^Ve may have to rent PAT CANNY's old apartment to handle the over­flow crowd. Will be seeing all of you next month. Write or phone me if you need any more infor­mation on the reunion. 
FRANK X. O'NEIL, JR., was one of four top sales representatives honored recently by the Stand­ard Oil Co. in California. 
IQ^ l James T. Doyle '^^^ 902 OaJiton Street Evanston, Ulinois 
This being my first notes after Christmas I wish to acIcDou'Icdgc Christmas cards from the following out-of-town '3Iers: FRED SUINT, CLARK BEXK­ENDORF, FR/VNCIS HENNEBERGER, TOM ASHE, TOM MONAHAX and FATHER BOURKE MOTSETT. Bourlce again expressed his regrets at being unable to attend the Chicago luncheon of last November. He mentioned that he and RALPH DALTON were going to Urbana for the Illinois-Notre Dame basketball game. Speaking of another luncheon meeting of the class of 1931 similar to that held for Tom Ashe if enough would indicate their desires by a phone call or note we might arrange one for June. 
JAMES K. COLLLN'S, '32 Class Secrctar>-, sent me a clipping from Cleveland telling of the death of FRANK DITTOE Xfarch 11 th at St. John's Hospital. Frank had lived at 19840 Rivcr\-ie\v Ave­nue, Rocky River, Ohio and was associated with llie Keilc>' Co. He is sur\-ived by his widow Rose, three sons and two daughters. John O'Connell, 8-year-oId son of HENRY G. OXON'NELL, died recently after a long illness. On behalf of the class I wish to extend our sympathy and prayers to Mrs. Dittoc and tlie O'ConnclIs. 
I had a nice letter and clieck for our ^fass and Reunion Fund from SPIKE SULLI\'AN. "When last we met outside Gate 4, I am confident you extracted from me the promise of a letter; now I hope that this reaches you in time to express our Cliristmas Greetings. Plainly enough, I did not get into Chicago again for the November gathering you then had on the slate and I have since won­dered if the seance took place. In the course of my autumn itinerary*, whiclt Included two games on the campus (CAHILL seems to think I should also have attended the Iowa game) there was no dearth of alumni of our approximate vantage, but as to '31 itself, I can most clearlv recall JOE HUGHES, VERN KNOX, HANK CHA.\fBERS, CARL (per­fect host) CRONIN, FRANK HOLLAND and of course, ED (perfect host) MURRAY and TOM MONAHi\N. So maybe they get a notice from DOYLE. The enclosure is for tlic *hoppcr* and now may both TTiercsa and I wish you and Kay the best of cver>*thing for tlic Holiday Season and thereafter." 
EDDIE RY.AN attended a meeting of the soutli side section of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and met GENE VALLEE, BUD MORTENSON and CARL CRONIN. I had a note from Tom Ashe mentioning tliat because of illness in his family he ivould have to defer his promised letter for the ALUMNUS. 
From JOHN CARLTON SULLWAN: "I read your column with much interest in cvcr>' issue of 

40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ May-June^ 1955 
the ALUMNUS. BOB GORE and I arc the only '31 members of the Notre Dame Club in Fort Lauderdale, but we have about 20 active members and meet the second Tliursday of each montli gen­erally at tlic Governors Club Hotel. In April our club b going to sponsor a State Convention of Notre Dame Alumni. We understand that this will be the first gathering at state level in the histor>- of the Alumni Association. The meeting is to be at the Sea Ranch Hotel, April 22 to 24, 1955. We expect FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH to be a speaker on the program. Bob Gore is Chairman of the aifair, should anyone intending to visit Florida at that time wish to make reserva­tions. A Chicago friend of yours, ED McGUIRE, now lives in Fort Lauderdale and is comptroller of Mackej-Airlines here. My brother, Norbert, lives in St. Petersburg. I've been here since 1946, and now have three cliildrcn, all crackers. MicliacI is 6 months and Mark is 20 months. They are pre­paring for the class of '75. Mary, who is three and a half years, has decided against going so far from home, and she's not one to change her mind, if you know what I mean. Enclosed is my check for the Mass and Reunion Fund. I hope to be at Xolre Dame in June of 1956." Thanks to John and Spike SulII^'an for their cliccks. The account now has a balance of $175.00 plus a few cents in­terest. Please get your checks to me for this fund as it ser\-es the worthy purpose of ^fasses for de­ceased classmates and an operating fund for pro­motion of our 25-Year Reunion in June 1956. Please make cliccks payable to JAMES T. DOYLE and not to the Mass Fund otherwise the bank u'ants a resolution before accepting funds for deposit. I had a letter from TOM and MARV MOSAHA^ who were in Hawaii. You can blame him for the high price of corn brooms as Tom has no doubt been badgering the Agricultural Department to im­port Hawaiian grasses for a new t>pe broom. JIM MULVANE Y was appointed general manager of the Mather Coupon Ticket division in Chicago of Commercial Controls Corp. Talking to Jim re­cently, he mentioned having been in Ncvv York where he saw RICHIE BARBER and JOHN BURNS. He said John has been a good boy this Lent ginng up hb three for a buck cigars and other things for Lent. Jim had a call from SLIM .MAHAN and ED CUNNINGHAM. John men­tioned that TIM TOOMEY has been under the wcatlier lately. 
WALT O'BRIEN wrote cariy In January: "Tlie '31 column has been so interesting under your stctvardship that I really feel an obligation to send you something, small as It may be. ROY BAILIE stopped off here in Albany 3 or 4 years ago and we had a ver>' pleasant visit. I hear he is now living in Seattle. If you walked down either the east coast or west coast you would probably some­time meet him, but I don't look for him inbetwcen. There used to be a time when I saw a lot of BILL O'BRIEN, my old walking, talking and eating com­panion, but now I can't even find him in tlic Brooklyn director}'. I suppose he has migrated to 
Members of the 1941 class and their wives who attended a West Virginia Club party: (left to right) Dave and Sarah Moncrief; Bill and Joanne Rcishman; Gene and Genie Ryan; Max and Mary Rita Hill; Joe and Ruth Neenan. 
The children of Lou I^uth, '45, present a happy scene. Left to right: Irene, Kathy, Connie (holding John), Pat and Mike. 
Garden City or Block Island. Sec LEONARD^ HORAN quite frequently. He lives here and is one of the big cogs in the N. V. State Youth Commis­sion. Also AL ROACH who comes in from Roches­ter. AI is also connected with one of the State departments. I hear that JOHN DORSCHEL now operates a big Buick agcnc>- in Rochester and is really one of the reasons why Berle and Gleason are making a million a week. I get my Info from JOHN CAMPBELL, of '26, who is vice-president of the First Trust in Albany and who attends all the automobile conventions. DICK WALSH is back in Schenectady for G.E. after a fairly long stint in Detroit. Had a Christmas card from AL GRIS­ANTI, who now has four children and Is one of the leading barristers in the Cleveland area. Will be looking for you AI, at the Reunion. ^V'hat has become of AL ROMxMN? I think that AI Romain could have stemmed that riot in Cleveland last fall>~^ if given half a dianee. Paging AL LOPEZ, that is! 
•Never see anything regarding LARRY KRx\L either. And what of VINCENT AflCHAEL TEDERS, (see below) doesn't the outside world ever hear of what goes in Kendalvillc. Going back a few years I have at one time or other run into JI\[ RORKE of Brooklyn, TOM FL/\NNERY, ED and FR^VNK KOSKY, ED CUNNINGHAM, but couldn't tell you what they arc doing now. Used to see FRANK HANSSEL frequently wlien I was in Buffalo. FRANK LEx\HY was here in town a year ago, but was so besieged by admirers and well-wishers that I wasn't able to get close enough to say licllu. Hope his health continues to Improve, Docs anyone ever hear from JIM RUDOLPH, BOB KENDALL, FRANK O'NEIL or ART BRADLEY of Montreal. And may I, ivithout violating protocol, inquire about BOB "ECKIE" McDONALD of the class of *30 from Oakland, Calif. For myself, I'm stilK hacking away in the N. Y, State DIv. of Employ­ment with MICHAEL JOSEPH TIERNEY and FR/VNK DISNEY, a couple of oldsters from back around '22. I had a fairly serious illness a couple of years after graduation, but that's all In the past. I'm married and have had six cliildrcn, one of whom we lost. Expect to make the 25th Reunion. Regards." If anyone can help Walt with informa­tion on those mentioned In his letter please pass the information direct or to me for publication In the '31 cohimn. 
The Alumni Office now advises that AIIKE TED­ERS is at 420 Gardner Place, Pittsburgh 9, Pa. A few other cliangcs of address arc REV. RICH­ARD PATRICK, Reitz Memorial High School, EvansvUlc, Indiana. JAMES H. RORKE, c/o Hay­den Rorke, Studio Citv, 12207 Hillspole St., No. Holly^vood, CaliL JOSEPH H. ROBINSON, 109^. Clifton St., Wallingford, Conn. GEORGE VLK, 3700 Massachusetts Ave. N.W., Apt. 23, Washing­ton, D. C. RONALD ZUDEK, 155 Sanders Rd., Buffalo 23, N. Y. ART BERGEN, 7990 Hawthorne Ave., Miami Beacli, Fla. CLIFFORD L. FISHER, 525 E. Armour Blvd., Kansas City, Mo. J/VMES 
W. HART.\L\N, Rt. No. 1, Romncy, W. Va. HARRY KENNEDY, Lima, Peru. How about some news from or about those mentioned. Nothing n«tf from F. X. MURPHY lately. Anvonc remember TOM QUINN from Salina,' Kansas? Saw JACK SCH.\nDT and WALTER CAHILL lately. NICK BOHLING looked his usual impressive self greeting Mayor Keneally. I had a note from JIM Mc-QUAID and recently sent him some renewals on magazines. I hope that many of you arc remem­bering Jim on renewals or new subscriptions. I hope mentioning tlte names of so many classmates will move you to send news for this column. Don't i . forget to make good on that promise to send mc a check for the Mass and Reunion Fund. Remember June 1956, Silver Anniversary of the Class of 1931. 
~vlQ^ 9 James K. Collins M#^ A 333g Kcnmore Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
RAY GEIGER, president of Gciger Bros, (calen­dars, diaries, specialties, etc) Has moved his com­pany from Newark, N. J., to Lcwiston, ^[aine. The firm will be in the largest one-story Industrial build­ing in the state with 60,000 square feet of space. 
EDWIN T- KOLSKI is Republican ward com­mitteeman and assbtant superintendent of the IIH-nob Department of Labor. Ed is married and has three children. 
191 ^ Joseph A. McCahc 
•^"*"* 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, III. 
I*m afraid this is s°ing to be another lean month, no bucko$—perhaps in the spirit of Lent, which is now upon us as these immortal lines are being' written. 
The mail situation has returned to its former hush after the comparative clamor of some of our recent columns. Remember when we had four letters to run in here? And all those postcards? 
\VelI—tliere's one thing . . . we were good guys when we had it. We sure spent freely. Kind of wish I had a few of those names to bandy about now—it ^%-ouId pick the column Up no end to be able to say Jack McSw*izzle just moved to 1313 Skiddle Rowe from Dead End Ave., or Wilbur O'Heigho has gone into business with Miss Ouri*5 brother, Pcnn. Just neighborly little touches. 
It isn't that we haven't seen quite a few ND's .^lately—^just haven't heard from any. Well, let's ' throw in a few of the people we've seen, to 
shatter the silence. 
In the line of duty, there's JOHN Xf. BREEN, *25, who programmed and super\'ised an insurance refresher course wc looked in on recently; JIM ALLAN, '28, also of Kemper Insurance, who tells me his brother George handles federal tax matters for a. small motor company in Detroit named Ford. JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, who has done a fine Job all year as president of the Chicago club; PAT CROWLEY, still busy in the Christian Family njovement, and ED STEPHAN, \vho is involved on behalf of Louis Wolfson In the Montgomery Ward story; GEORGE HIGGINS, another ND Loop bar­rister; GIL SE/VMAN, of Boyle, Flagg & Seaman, insurance brokers; GEORGE MURPHY, another kind of broker — stock; ROBERT EMMETT 
• WRIGHT, vice-president of the local Noire Domes; 
-^JIM DOYLE, who has done great work as chair­man of our Chicago club golf touriiament for sc\­cral years; LUKE TIERNAN, cotton broker—this looks like broker day! (And friend, I'm broker than you! After a gag like that I trust some of you lads will WTite in self-defense.) 
Note a heaxy emphasis on Chicago in the above listing? Proves I've been sticking around home lately, if nothing else . . . and I hope emphasizes that I'm not getting any out-of-town mall. There's another reason, too—I'm next in line as president of the Chicago club and w*ilt be thinking, eating and sleeping about local ND affairs for a year following April 18, our local Universal Notre Dame night. 
ft makes a man feel humble and a little scared when he ponders over the assuming of a big job like that. Tlie local club lias had some mighty fine 
. presidents—^Al Stcpan, GU Seaman, and the others 
^'I'vc named. Tliis isn't the club column, so I won't go into club matters any further. But one thing I hope I can do in some small way—heighten the spiritual consideration of the group, and espe­cially devotion to the Blessed Virgin. Attendance at our last Communion Breakfast was really gratify­ing—here's hoping it is even bigger this year. 
In line with this topic, a friend of mine and I agreed the other niglic that Notre Dame ivould have been a notable influence on the American scene even without football—In fact has become great al­most in spite of its gridiron prowess. This is at­tributable without question to the Influence of our Blessed Mother. Yet we could not but wonder at her special interest In this school, out of the many Catholic institutions which arc also dedicated to Her in a special way. Why? We could only guess that some dedicated Notre Dame man or group of . ( men had by tlicir unique and unusual effort espe­cially endeared tlie university to Her. Perhaps 
that's pretty far-fetched but the point Is—let's all do our best to contribute to an alumnl-widc devo­tion to our Patroness—It will not only help the school but us as individuals. 
As I write this the dread date of ^(arch 15 is approaching—income tax deadline. (Ed. Note: Mail delivery must be pretty slow in Chi, Joe! They moved it back a month in Indiana). Why not make every •week an Outgo Tax pcriod^make some spe­cial offering to further our SPIRITUAL state! 
So good-by . . . and don't forget to write! 
193 d T. Edward Carey 
• '^ ^ 18843 Inglcwood Ave. Rocky River, Ohio 
*34-crs who have moved far enough to get their names In the paper include: FRED A. BARSTOW from Phoenix, to 114 McNab Parku-av, Son Man­uel, Arizona; ED\VARD J. FITZGERALD from Dunkirk, N. Y., to 152 Birch Lane, ScoU'a 2, New York; ^^^LLLVM J. FLATLEY from Antlgo, Wis., to 1220 Finlay St., Roseburg, Oregon; JOHN 
N. LEONARD from Bremen, Indiana, to 1191/j McCormick Rd., North Holly^vood, California; VINC G. Mc/\LOON from Cumberiand, Md., to St. Francis Prep, Spring Grove, Pa.; MAJOR ROBERT J. McDONOUGH, USA from Richmond, Ky., to 196th F. A. Db. APO 358 c/o P. ^L, San Francisco, Calif.; GERALD J. McGLONE from Springfield, III., to 7114 So. Normal Blvd., Chicago, III.; JOHN L. RUPPEL from San Jose 27, CaL, to 16727 45th N.E. Sheridan Beach, Seattle, Wash. 
TOM DALTON has opened his law office in Fair Lawn, N. J. If you give him a chance he'll try and keep you Jersey guys out of trouble. 
You gardeners, going through the seed catalogs, these days, take a good look at R. ^L Kellogg's, Three Rivers, Mich. The handsome gent pictured above the Surprise Rock-Carden Collection Is DICK CHAPLEAU—Treasurer of the company. 
TONY ANSLOVAR, the precision casting mag­nate, has left Cleveland for California. He is-opening a new plant there. 
Ran into JOHN O'CONNOR III the other night and spent several pleasant hours catching up oD e\'eQts since the fifteen reunion. The Third Is dis­trict manager here for Copperweld Steel, and he and his wife live In Cle\eland Heights. 
Your secretary's plea for a little assistance brought responses from a few kind souls. HOWARD GIL­LESPIE writes: **.At present I am engaged In sell­ing trucks for Paterson Mack Distributors, Inc., and have been in this - line since I was separatecf from the Navy in 1946. Spent a Uttlc over two years In Navy communications and the greater por­tion of this time was spent In Chungking, China and Calcutta, India. Am still living in Mountaln-
These attractive youngsters are children of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Pieroni^ '36. Front row {left to right), twins Gemma and Gina, and twins Lisa and Stephen. Back row (left to right), Anthony, Dan, Nick and Marina. Charles is manager of Dallas and Mavis Forwarding Co., South Bend, Ind. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, May~Junef 1955 

side, X. J. Although prior to the war spent most of my time in South Jersey, Ohio and Virginix Have been married for over fifteen years and have four children. Michael 13, Peter 10 and David and Scnise who are four-year-old twins. Most of this of course is ancient history* and is a commentary* on the last time I wrote a class secretar>'. At pres­ent outside of my work, I keep busy with various 
•do-it-yourscif projects, Little League baseball (um­pire, no less!}. Cub Scouts and other \-arious and stmdr>' activities. 
Sad to relate, I have not been closer than tliree hundred miles to South Bend since June 1934. My intentions have been good with relation to attend­ance at reunions, but something always came up. Ouess I had better start planning now for '59 and maybe I %viU make it.** 
TOM BYRNE from Philadelphia came through vith a shortie, plus a call from the local airport when enroutc to Notre Dame with his eldest on a toair of inspection. He plans to enroll the lad next year. 
JIM MUNX, the oldest man in tlic .tVssociatcd Press, %\-rote one he owed for seven years. Jim and Chriss\- and their two daughters have been in "Washington for the past ten years and Jim reports mostly on House activities when Congress Is in session. 
In case vou missed it in the last four-page edi­tion of tlie .ALUMNUS, JOHN McLAUGHLIN of Rhode Island received a dividend check for $9,999,­
924. He claims that the correct amount should have been $24. But we are turning him in to the Notre Dame Foundation just In case. 
JOHN F. DONNELLY, Binghamton, N. Y., has been appointed e.\eculivc deput>' commissioner in New York Slate of the Motor Vehicle Bureau. 
FARIS COWART, Notre Dame Foundadon gov­ernor in Florida, has recently received an award from tlie National Conference of Christians and Jews for outstanding ser%ice to the community. 
S. P. OSBORN has been elected assistant comp­troller of Texas Eastern Transmission Corp., Shreve­port, La. He Is married and has one son. 
Communications of any informative nature, re­gardless of tlie degree, will be gratefully received by your secrctar>". 
20 yBAH REUNION ^ JUNE lO-M'IX 
IQ9C Franklyn C, Hochreitcr *'^^ 1327 Penhvood Road Baltimore 12, Afaryland 

It's March 19 and this last BIG PUSH for the TWENTIETH is due on the campus on Monday. There will not be another reminder in the ALUM­NUS before those three great days—that's right JUNE 10, 11, 12—so, if you have not marked it dott-n yet—DO FF NOW!!! D/\N YOUNGERNUN and his Committee have been bombarding you with material so there's no excuse for not knowing that we have a LARGE WEEKEND booked. YOU CAN'T AFFORD TO MISS IT! 
Nine more questionnaires cane in since we ^vent to press in tlie AVInter issue, and that brings up our total response to 194. Eight of those nine were listed two issues back, so the list did do some good. "We'll give you the dope on those guys first and then get into the Reunion rundo^^'n from Dan. 
BOB ALVHER, So. 2605 Anliur St., Spokane, ^Vash., is a physician specializing in ophtlialmology. (Hope we got that address correct. Bob—that's the ^*-ay we read it.) He and wife, Betty have three sons: Peter, 9; Stephen, 7; and Michael, 3. Bob writes that he did general practice from 1941 to *49 in ^Vestem ^Vashington with three years out for service. On return to civilian life he took out an­other three years for a residency in eye work and is now starting up practice all over again. Been at it for 2i4 years. Bob is president of the Spokane and Inland Empire Alumni Association which in­cludes 40 members In Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho and AVestem Montana. Count Bob for sure in June. 
DAN YOUNGERM.\N, 1516 East Cedar St.. South Bend 17, Indiana, is Assistant Purchasing 

42 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
BERNARD MEGIN, '37 

In the rugged tradition of their community's famed "embattled far­mers/' a group of fighting schoolboy gridders from Concord, Mass., under the coaching of a Notre Dame man, have rung up a fabulous nine-year record that has made them a phenom­enon in national prep circles. Bernard Megin, '3 7, has guided these New England lads to an amazing 79-3-1 mark in his nine years at Concord High, and his teams set a state record for consecutive games ^vithout a de­feat—56 from 1946 to 1952. Bemie's elevens won state titles in their class in 1946, 1948, 1949, 1951, and 1953. 
The coaching whiz graduated from die University of Notre Dame in 1937, and received a master's in education from Tufts graduate school in 1938. 
Bemie mairied Mary T. Thomas, a Regis College graduate, in 1941, and the couple have six children— Bernard, Jr., 13; Mary Anne, 11; Susan, 9; William, 7; George, 5; and Virginia, 4. 
MEGIN'S RECORD AT CONCORD 

W.  L.  T.  
1946  10  0  0  
1947  8  0  1  
1948  10  0  0  
1949  10  0  0  
1950  9  0  0  
1951  8  0  0  
1952  7  2  0  
1953  9  0  0  
1954  8  I  0  
Total  79  3  1  

Agent with the Studebaker DKision of the Stude­
bakcr-Packard Corporation. He and Dorothy have 
three daughters, as follows: Peggy Sue, 13; Marilu, 
II; and Kathy Ann, 4. Pcgg>- Sue is making a 
rapid recovery from polio with which she way 
stricken last October. No need to ask if Dan will 
be with us in June—we can't have a party with­
out him! 
DON J.ACOBI, 40 Wcslgate Road, Kenmore 17, New York, is \1cc-PresIdcnt of Jacobi Brothers, Inc. (Men's Clothing) w-iih stores In downtown Buf­falo and the suburbs. Don and wife Catherine have two daughters: Mary Claire, 5; and Anne Marie, 3. A third daughter, Ruth Ellen, died at 21 months on December 8, 1954. Don sent us a picture of the three girls taken just before her death—and they were vcrj- cute together, boy. ^Ve send along the condolences of the Class to you and Catherine, Don. Here is a call to men with all boys—Don wants to cultivate your acquaintance for his daughters. (We have no information on Brother 
C. Edu"ard, Don—haven't heard of him for years!) The well dressed Mr. Jacobi will make Reunion if at all possible. \ 
JOE UNDERKOFLER, Veterans Hospital, Minot, North Dakota, Is their Personnel Officer. E\-a is Mrs. U., and together they have two daughters and a son, namely: Frances, 12; Patricia, 9; and Joe, Jr., 5. Before entering the Navy, where he spent time from February '42 to September *46, Joe owned and operated a bo)^ military school. After discharge he went to the V.A. Hospital in Indian­apolis as Assistant Personnel Officer. During his Na\y da)'s Joe was In Norfolk as an instructor in destroyer school and he also did a tour on a bat­tleship. He hopes to make it in June and votes for a repeat on the fifteenth. Joe would like to hear from the "Chapel End" boys In Sophomore Hall, ED BRACKEN, JOE BriTNER and LOU DUNN. 
JOHN FLANAG.-VN, 634 Lake Drive S.E., Grand Rapids, Michigan, is Credit Manager of the Grand^. Rapids "Herald." With wife Carolyn, John has three sons and two daughters. They are: John, Jr., 11; Michael, 10; Timothy, 3; Mary Ellen, 6; and Ann, I. John wxltes that he started out at the "Herald" in advertising in '36 but left in. '39. There was a brief period with ne\v'spapcrs in Texas and then with *'The Oklahoman" In Oklahoma City. He went back to the "Herald" as assistant sports editor in '40, becoming their credit man in *48. From 1942 to '45 he was in the /\rmy—total period in the States. John married In '43. He was president of the local Alumni Club last year. That Flanagan man hopes to be with us in June. John would like to hear from J.ACK BAKER. 
DICK PREZEBEL, 7228 Floyd. Overland Park, Kansas, is art director for R. J. Potts, Calkins and Holdcn Advertising firm in Kansas City, Mo. He and wife Darlcnc have sons: Richard, Jr., 4, and • Dan, 2. Dick says he movxd from Cleveland to"^ Kansas City In 1940. He served with the Air Force during the War, mostly in China and India, and emerged a Captain. He and Darlcne were married in 1950. In his capacity as Art Director for the BranlfT International Ainva>-s and Interstate Bakeries accounts, Dick travels frequently to tlie west coast and the deep south. He has been active in ND afTairs in K. C. Dick \%'ouId like to hear from GERRY DOYLE and BOB MORRISSEY. Yes, he hopes to make it for the twentieth. 
DON LOVE, 6034 Main St., \VilliamsriIIe, N. Y., is an architect in Buffalo. He and wife, Mary, have two pair—Edward, 13; Gordon, 6; Linda, 5; and ^faureen, 3. Don sent along no word except that he will be with us in June. 
JOE KALEY, Pint National Bank, Milton, N. Y., is in the banking business. With wife Harriet, Joe has a pair—Winnie, 8; and Brian, 3. Joe writes that he is anxious to see evcrj-body and "especially the students from Sorin Hall." You gather from that, the Milton "Flash" will be there In June. (^\'c ^vould wear the derby—got a new one too, Joe—but it might be a little hot!) 
GEORGE MELINKOVICH, I45S ifaplc Road, Logan, Utah, Is football coach at Judge Memorial High School in Salt Lake City- No word on the name of George's wife, but we know they have t\\-o sons and two daughters—they are: Georc>-n, 14; Denise, 9; Marc, 4; and Neil, 3. George says "I spent a very enjoyable evening with Father Re>-on­aJds (Editor—check that spelling!) at the Trapplst Monastery in Hunteville, Utah. He looks very good and keeps in excellent condition hiking tlirough the mountains. DAN HANLEY came through here last Spring and believe it or not we took second place in a match point duplicate bridge toumamcntX/ at Hotel Utah." George would like to hear from MIKE SANTULLI and JACK EDWARDS. (We'd 
like word on DAN HANLEY, George. Saw a good 
bit of him here in Baltimore back five or six years 

ago. What's he doing?) Count on the *'backfield" yo r Reunion! 
That makes the nine we told you about. And now to some correspondence. ANDY MAFFEI sent along a letter the middle of January, together with a copy of a note sent to DAN YOUNGER­NL\N which enclosed a $15 check for advance con­tribution to Reunion expenses. Andy, we certainly enjoyed your letter and for the class and the June Committee send our thanks for the money. 
Andy suggests that we put up a circus tent in front of the residence hall that will be ours in June as an answer to the family housing problem of returnees and all their children. Our Vonkers agent promises a large delegation from his area at Re­union. 
Tlic second letter come from NEIL FARRELL down in Tennessee, and in it was a check for §10 toward advance expenses. Again, our gratitude for 

ya thoughtful response, NcJl. Wc sent your check 
^ right on out to Dan and he has added it to the contributions previously mentioned—^TOM OWEN, 510; TOM LaLONDE, $5; and OVMILLE GRAVEL, $10. That brings our early money to $50 and your Reunion Chairman—D/\N YOUNGER-MAN—has especially asked us to thank the five of you for him and the Committee. 
We believe that part of Neil's letter bears repeat­ing here. SaN-s Neil—"I think it would be well to re-einphasize to our many classmates who were un­able to attend the 1950 Reunion what a fine time we all enjoyed on that occasion. 
"Many of us had not been able to return for other prenous Reunions and this was our first op­portunity to visit together since undergraduate days. It was interesting to obscr\'c how much more some of us had in common fifteen to twenty years later than wc bad when we first knew one another. 
"One of our good friends discussed this with me at the time, and it was his opinion that the answer lay in the fact that as mature business and pro­fessional men we now have so much wider interests and perspectives than we had as undergraduates. He made the point that though wc two were not close friends on the campus, we now actually have a greater capacity for friendship today than wc ever had tlien. I am sure that you, yourself, have obscr\'ed classmates in a newer and broader light throughout the years that you have been returning for Class Reunions.'* 
Wc certainly agree with you, Neil! You have 

! given all of us something to think about. Age has given the Men of '33 a oneness that was impossible back on the campus—just because "age" was not there with tis. As we approach our twentieth we would do well to realize that for some of us there 
^will not be a Silver Anniversary—let's make this one count us ALL IN! 
And, this seems as good a spot as any to tell all of you how much Your Scribe has appreciated the many swell things you have said in your ques­tionnaires and letters about his work over the twenty years behind us. There were times when we were afraid that our "stufT" wasn't getting over because our correspondence was so slight. But It i never did completely dry up. And there were fre­quent times when the rcser\'oIr was full. Without any 
I attempt at histrionics, we want you to know that it has been fun to tr\* to keep you all up on one another. If you feel wc have done a job—that's our reward! Without a class there would not need to be a Scribe! 
All of which brings tis to the third letter and this one from TOM PROCTOR. Tom sent along ^ a note about DON HAVERICK who we have in 
^^olumbus, Ohio. It seems that Don ran into Tom recently at the Drug and Chemical Club in New York. Here is another insurance man to add to the roster—Don Is vice-president ot the Buckeye Union Casualty Co., located at 515 E. Broad St. in Colum­bus. (While we have no direct word on you, Don, wc hope that you will be joining us on campus in June.) Tom writes that he is still hopeful of re­turning for Reunion, and we hope so too. 
Here comes what you have all been waiting for— tlie Reunion Program for JUNE 10, II, and 12. And it will be similar to what the Committee gave you in *50. 
Friday—Registration, room assignment, general bull sessions with continuous buffet and re­freshments. Friday evening until you ^vant to give up—smoker and buffet. 

. i Saturday—Class Memorial Mass for deceased members of the class, golf tournament, cam-
JAMES W. SHOCKNESSY, '28 

"The man who presides over the greatest single public undertaking in the history of Ohio as chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commission Is a personality whose impact on those who come into contact with him is some­what akin to that of the turnpike on the state itself." That man, described so aptly by the Cleveland Plain Dealer of Oct. 24, 1954, is James W. Shock­nessy, '28, the 48-year-oId "d>'namo" who Gov. Frank J. Lausche of Ohio chose to guide the controversial Ohio Turnpike Commission through its peril-fraught early years, a figure of influ­ence to those who "move in the high­er political and business echelons in Ohio," and the individual who "prob­ably has had control over more public money for loans or construction than any other person in Ohio history who was not elected to administrate such funds." 
His turnpike post is not the first in which Jim has had the responsibility for directing the expenditure of large sums of money. While, serving from 1933 to 1939 under President Franklin Roosevelt as State Counsel for the Home Owners Loan Corporation in Ohio and as a Regional Counsel for the corporation, he was one of two officials who approved loans for that organization which aggregated 306 million dollars. 
Jim is a native of Springfield, O., and was a presidential elector in 1948. 
pus tours, class picture and class election. Sat­
urday evening vnll be the pre-faanquet cock­
tail party, the Alumni Banquet AND the 
poit-banquet bull sessions. 
Sunday—Low Mass and sermon, breakfast, final 
bull sessions and farewells. 

OUR REUNION HALL ^^11 be MORRISSEY oo the original "Gold Coast." We will share Morris­sey with the Class of '40. 
BtJT, here Is even HOTTER NEWS—the Class 

of *33 will have as its Headquarters for the weekend 
the ROCKNE MEMORIAL lounge. The lounge 
will be the gathering place during the weekend for 
our gang just as Dillon lounge was in '50. With 
more than double the room wc had five years ago, 
along with the other facilities of the "Rock," (such 
as its proximity to Morrissey and the golf course], 
the *50 activities not only can be equalled—they can 
be bettered. Here is the answer to your many pleas 
to "give "US the same deal we had last time." 
You may remembr that wc had our Smoker in 

the Rockne lounge in *50—the first class to be per­
mitted its use for such an occasion. Now we have 
it for the whole Reunion. 
Back in our November-December column we ex­plained the University $20 UNIT FEE system to you under which Reunions have been operating the last couple years, and for reasons given you at that time wc said—"As with all such plans, compromises must be made along the line. The 'perpetual buffet' Wc had in '50 may not be possible under the Unit Plan. We do not know. The Utile extras which your committee gave yo« may also be limited." 
Before this column reaches you at least one letter will have arrived telling you of the Reunion Pro­gram and requesting a Class Fee of $5 to carry the extras of the weekend. The two largest factors NOT COVERED In the UNIT FEE and which you have all requested as repeat FEATURES are the PERPETUAL BUFFET and the PRE-BANQUET COCKTAIL PARTY. These two events plus such other "extras" as Memorial Masses until our next Reunion for our deceased classmates, memorial leaf­lets with photos of our deceased men, gratuities and prizes during the weekend make the CLASS FEE imperative. 
DAN YOUNGERMAN has already requested you to send him your $5 fee direct. If you have not done so, by the time you read this column, won't you please sit down and sHp that check or five dollar bill into an envelope Immediately. Send it to him as follows: 
DANIEL J. YOUNGERMAN, 
1515 EAST CEDAR STREET, 
SOUTH BEND 17, INDIANA 

The Committee needs your finandal help In ad­vance of the weekend and, for that reason, the time is already very late to get your personal CLASS FEE in the strong box. Incidentally, the Class Fees for CAMILLE GR.W'EL, ANDY MAFFEI. TONt LaLONDE, JOHN KREBSER, TOM OWEN and NEIL FARRELL are checked off as "Paid." Their ad\'ance contributions gave the Committee some working capital to start the ball rolling. 
Also, the CLASS FEE as well as the UNIT FEE is being waived for the 30 religious in our class. There arc 25 of these men in the United States and five abroad. Of the total, 18 are priests and 12 are brothers, according to Alumni OfHce records. 
All the men who returned to the Fifteen-Year Reunion received a special letter early in March asking them to make contact with a classmate who did not make the *50 Reunion. As DAS YOUNG­ERMAN so well put it in his letter—"Working on the theory that your best salesmen are satisfied cus­tomers, I am appealing to all the men (as per our record) who attended our 13th Reunion to 'sell' our 20th Reunion to at least one other classmate who did NOT attend the I5th." 
If you "fifteeners," together with the Alumni Club leaders from '35 in key areas and the four Vice-Presidents of the Class will all round up your contacts we have a good chance of breaking all Reunion records—and that's what we want to do, don't we? Incidentally, do you want to know who those Veeps are? VIC ARCADI, JOHN CLARK, TOM FOLEY and BILL KEN*NEDY. How about putting in about half the time that our Prexie, BILL RYAN, is for our TwcnU'eth? We need your help, men! 
As you all comb your towns, dtles, districts, states and territories we ^vish you would keep alert for any of our men who have died but whose deaths have not been reported to the Alumni Office. Their records note that 28 of our class are deceased as follows: JIM BOOKWALTER, CLARE BURGER, 
Kotre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 43 
AL CAPITELL, MARCEL DEBECK,>JIM .DEV­ERS, TONY DUNNING, CHARLIE FfeHRv JOHN FINN, DAN FOX, JIM KAUFMAN, MAURIE LEFERE, FRANK LEONARD, GEORGE AL\CK, FRED MORRIS, VINCE MURPH\'. PAUL O'CONNOR, RUSS O'SHEA, VARNUM PAR­RISH, FRANK RDZOK, RAFAEL ROCES, RO­XAND ROULEAU, WALT RYAN, RAY SHEA, WALT SHEAHAN, BILL SHEEHAN, JOHN 
TINGLEY, GONZ.VLO VALDES and AL AVEIL. If you know of others, please let us knou'. 
And now to that very important list—your TWEN­TIETH REUNION COMMITTEES! Here Uie>- arc, and to them we all owe a ver>' large debt of ap­preciation. They have been \vorking for months to anake YOUR REUNION a success; a never-to-be­forgotten weekend. A su^estion from your Scribe —tvhen you meet them on JUNE 10, 11 and 12 tell them what you think of tlieir efforts. Theirs is A thimkless task. Their only reward for months of preparation, and three days of headaches will be a job well done and a *'thank you" from all of us personally. We want to start off with our own— w*e know it \%'ill be great and we tliank you men for making it so! 
General Chairman: DAN YOUNGERM.\N. Publidty: PAUL FERGUS, Chairman; BERT LISS, RAY GRIMMEL. Reception and BufTct: KURT SIMON, Chairman; SPENCE WALTON, ED SMITH, STAN ROSEN­STEIN, FAL HARRIS. Smoker and Buffet: CHET CHLEBOWSKI, Chairman; TOM HICKEY, NATE LERAL\N, DR. RAY FIRESTEIN, DR. JOHN HELMER. Memorial Mass: REV. \'INCE THILMAN, Chairman; all returning *35ers. Pre-Banquet Cocktail Party and Post-Banquet Bull Session: FRANK MAXUXLL, Chairman; JOHN JORDAN, IR\TNG SMITH, DR. BILL McCRALEY. There it is men. All we can sav is COME AND 
•GET IT on JUNE 10, 11 and 12! DonU forget that «he Reunion STARTS FRIDAY, JUNE 10. The earlier you arrive the sooner tilings will get roll­ing and the more wc will all enjoy the weekend. 
A last reminder on the advance CLASS FEE. Send it to Dan TODAY. Sec you in June! ^MLLIAM N. COLE is manager of Cole's, Inc., 
Box 583, Parsons, Kansas. Late Flash from Dan Youngerman: MANHATTAN ARE.-\—Fellows in the Manhattan 
Area will be contacted by ANDY MAFFEI, 20 S. Broadu-ay, Yonkers, N. ;Y., or PHIL HEINLE, 499 Ridgewood Road, Maplewood, N. J., for organiz­ing a imit delegation for a trip to the Reimion with the possibility of chartering air transportation. Any­one in the area who is interested please contact Andy or Phil. 
109 ^ A. H. Moorman 
• '**** 1708 Industrial Bank Bldg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
JOHN S. GLEASON, JR., is currently Uving at 735 Sheridan Road, Winnetka, Illinois. THOMAS J. MEAGHER has opened a law office at 614 Genesee Valley Trust Bldg., Rochester, N. Y. 
JOHN A. LORITSCH has been appointed man­ager of the General Electric chemical materials department's alk>'d products plant. John joined GE in 1940 as a research chemist. 
1937 ^^^ ^**^^y 
Executive Vice-President MacManus, John & Adams, Inc. Bloomndd Hills, Michigan 
MARCH 16 . . . \Vhat a bitter way to spend the <\-c of St. Patrick's Day! From the library comes <hc almost unbearable brogue of Godfrey, ringing out as true as a hock-shop trtunpet—and here be­fore me a stack of year-old questionnaires. The bottom of the page is five miles away and the .deadline is dau*ning. 
So the least we can do is gi\x top billing to a few Irish names which are almost al^vays followed by the n:mies of six children. That is, almost al­waj's, except for. our first candidate who, as of last February, was still single. I trust you will agree that a single Irishman is not only as rare as bell-bottom pants but sure raises hob with the Pat and Alike jokes. 
Our singular mick is none other than ^VILLIAM 
•"WILD BILL" FALLON who, at last report, was living at 100 Pelliam Road, New Rochelle, New-York, and ivho recently bou^t a partnership in an 


44 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
RAYMOND A. HERRLY, '36 
U.S. Rubber has named as factor)' manager of its Mlshawaka. Ind., plant Ra>Tnond A. Herrly, \vho received his bachelor of science in chemical engineering from the Universit)' in 1936. 
Ray joined U.S. Rubber as a tech­nical control chemist on May 8, 1939. In July, 1948j he became Industrial Engineering manager at the Mish­a\vaka plant, and on Nov. 1, 1953, he rose to the factory managership of the company's new Koylon foam plant in Santa Ana, Calif. He was appoin­ted head of the Mishawaka plant on Nov. 3, 1954. 
This "spotliter" is married to the former Mildred Froning of South Bend, and is the father of one son, Peter. Ray is a member of Little Flower Parish, South Bend. 
automobile asenc>'. Bill has been V.P. of the ND Club of N. Y. and last year's Chairman of UND Nile. To give you some idea of the wrtues of re­maining single let us report that Fallon, as late as last year, was a tennis champ at New York A- C. and with the dough that you and I dump into the pockets of pediatricians. Bill bought himself a speed boat from Bill Stem. 
In an effort to prove that the Irish can c:xist an>-where, wc now take you to Ulj-sses, Kansas where DAN C. SULLIVAN, JR., is engaged on three fronts: Grain warehousing, livestock feeding and farming. Dan reported four children, starting with D. Cornelius, 13 and ending with J. Montgom­lay, 4. Now for the safest invitation ever issued: "Any of you bo>'s ever get out around UI>-sses, stop by, I\'e lots of room, a wee drop and steak In the freezer.** 
Speaking of a wee drop, how about a spot of Nehi? Easiest thing in the world. Just tap CHARLES DUFFY, 901 Chippewa Drive, Grand Rapids, Michigan. Duffy lists Nehi as his occupa­tion though it sounds more like a condition. Tlie Duifj-s had four children, two of each t^-pe, when 
we heard from him a year ago. 

BASIL G. GILLESPIE exercises the right of all Irishmen imto tlie tenth generation by registering, in witli a beef. Bas is all muscled up about the/ fact that 1937 class members are not active in New York alumni activities, and I, for one, consider that a pretty safe thing to be sore about. Basil is an insurance broker and was last addressed at 151 William Street, New York 38. He and wife Sheila were then just one month past the sucth child who is now almost old enough to sing Alka Seltzer fximmercials. 
If you want to personally meet the Irishman who first decided that an electric razor can shave a peach—to the great edification of other peaches— I give you ^\1LLL\M F. MULRENAN ivho for the past five years has served as branch sales manager for Remington Electric Shaver Division in New York and lives in Fairfield, Connecticut. Bill had three sons, at last report—Bill, Jr., Timothy and Kcrin whose names obviously fit the St. Patrick mood. J 
Fortunately you cannot run down a list of Irish­men very long before you run across one whicli reads *'Occupation: Priest.'* First candidate of the collar today is FATHER CRON^\N KELLY, O.F.Nf., who explains in a somewhat shame-faced manner that his \-ocation was born on the Notre Dame Campus even though it did lead to the Fran­ciscan Order. Father Kelly punclics his card at the Franciscan Monastery, 135 West 3Ist Street, Nc%v York. He tells this touching slorv- of how ND men rally round to a man when the crisis must be met: "Couple of years ago, I needed a Criminal lawyer's help. Asked ED NEAHER who contacted another Iaw>-er, ND graduate, who contacted another Iaw>*er, ND graduate, who contacted another law>*er, ND graduate, who contacted another Iaw>'cr, ND graduate, who contacted another lawyer, ND grad­uate who put me in touch with the lauyer who gave me the required help (a ND graduate).'* A-^ nice tight union tliose boys operate. 
Long ago I tised to believe implicitly in all the Wtal statistics and heroic prose which appeared be­tween the Coke and cigarette ads in football pro­grams. I was always delighted, proud and just a bit mystified that after the name of every Notre Dame player's name—from Mclinkovilch to Shee­ketski—there was always a h'ttle note that said: *'Irish-Polish" or "Irish-Lithuanian" or whatever. I think it u*as most cordial and self-sacrificing of these men to allow a legend to live by the generous use of the hyphen and the sure knowledge that somewhere, somehow, at some lime or another there was probably at least one Irishman mixed up in every melting pot in the world, so why not let the braggarts share at least half a hvphen. On that somewhat tenuous basis I include as the last name in this report a very nice guy and a fine athlete— • LAURENCE E. DANBOM who last checked in"^ from Hyattsville, Mar>*land. Larr>* has had a fine career as special agent for the F.B.I, and last year, at least, was working in Washington. 
It looks like a long wake, and the wise heads alwa>3 conserve the refreshments. Therefore, I am cutting this short in order to save the rapidly dwindling supply of questionnaires. I hope to pace them out to next St. Patrick's Day by which time all the information will be obsolete—and so will I, 
1938 Charles M. Callahan 
•'•'* ' Sports Publicity Dcpt. 

Notre Dame, Indiana Christmas Card acknowledgments . . . HUB and ELISE KIRCHMAN (riicy were at the Michigan State football game. . . . Hub had bout ^ with pneumonia shortK* after, but is once again okay.) , , . HAL and DOROTHEA LANGTON (Hal sent along several ideas for the 20th reunion.) .. . ED and IRIS BRENNAN . . . BILL and KATY COSTELLO .. . ED and PAT HAGGAR (Tex was much in evidence making all visiting Notre Darners welcome at the Southern Methodist game, in Dallas.) .. . J. J. GORMAN . . . tlie PAUL LEAHYS . . . JOE and >L\RY CALLAHAN (Joe is now at 49 North St., Greenwich, Conn.) . . . TOM and GRACE WUKOVITS .. . DR. D.\N MONAGHA N (the Denver medico being still single still commutes from Denver to most of the football games.) .. . the JIM CARSONS . . . FATHER JOE RACE . . . TOM and JULIA .MULLIGAN (after April 1, the Mulligans are moving to 22249 Douglas Road, Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.) . . . JERRY and MARY FRAN CLIFFORD (Jerry, now a Texan of many years standing reports a fourth ^ ­child, Kevin, born Dec 6.) . . . JOHN and ' 
ELIZABETH O'CONNOR . . . the HAL WIL­LIAMS .. . the NICK LAMBERTOS. 

Political note . . . South Bend's Mayor JACK SCOTT, of the distinguished class of '38, is ru­\reorcd as a possibility for Governor. 
Had a phone call from JOHN FABIAN, in Dallas, after thc S.M.U. game. He ts now Captain Fabian, of thc Air Force, and ts a career man. Old Freshman Hall residents will remember John for thc one year he attended Notre Dame. If memor>' is correct, he was thc fullback on the Hall eleven. 
Saw HAL WILLIAMS at the Naxy game in Baltimore. He is now Sunday Editor of thc Bal­timore Sun. Hal was laid up for a considerable period during the past year but is again feeling fine. 
Saw CAS VANCE and PAT STILLISxVNO for a moment on the campus after thc Michigan State game, and Cas again along with DR. RIGO DiBRIENZA, outside Franklin Field, in Philadel­phia, after the Pcnn game. 
JACK ANTON has resigned his position as a bank 

^president in Whiting, Ind., to return to Chicago banking circles. Jack's address is 1707 E. 67tli. Chicago 49, 111. 
Met ED BARTNETT's Dad, who is on the cdi-Inrtal staff of the New York World Telegram and Sun, while in New York recently. Didn't see Ed, as he was recovering from a recent operation, but his Dad said Ed was still a star newsman on the New York Times. 
Saw JOHN BOURKE for a few seconds at a Chicago football luncheon . . . saw brother and sister of BILL CLIFFORD at Washington Park race track one day last summer (Bill apparently was saving his money that day.) . . . WALT DUN­GJ\N was a frequent visitor at football games, com­ing up from his Oklahoma City home. . . . JACK FIRTH was at the Pitt game (Needed two tickets at thc last minute.) . . . GEORGE FITZPATRICK 

,-ind LEN TOBIN, as good loyal Bostonians, at­tended the Holy Cross basketball game together. .. . ED HICKEY is now a South Bend architect. . . . TOM JORDAN doing well as a sales execu­tive in Chicago (this comes from his older brother Johnny, our basketball coach.) . . . JOE KU­HARICH, who is now Notre Dame's only head coach in pro football, with the Washington Red­skins, was a visitor in New York City for the .N.C.A.A. meetings. . . . JACK MAHONEY back practicing law in Ashtabula, Ohio, after complet­ing a second service stint. . . . JACK MOULDER back in South Bend selling Plyniouths again, after a brief fling at California living . . . saw SCOTT REiVRDON and his wife outside the dressing room after the Iowa game. 
JOE C\LLj\.H/\X is coaching football and teach­ing social studies at St. Mar>*'s High School in .Greenwich, Conn. 
^ a\R L W. DOOZj\N is a member of the Bench and Bar Committee and the Grievance Commit­tee of the 1955 Saginaw County (Michigan) Bar Association. 
ANDY PUPLIS, Coacli of Proviso High in Chi­cago, was another Notre Damer from '38 in at­tendance at thc N.C.A.A. meetings in New York. JOE (RED) GLEASON, along with Pupiis, is an­other who is a high school football coach in Chicago. 
So much for around the country* . . . and the news could be more detailed if a few letters would arrive. 
On the local South Bend scene. DON FISHER, the perennial chairman, was in charge of a gath­ering on thc evening of No%-. 17, at Drewr>*'s. This was thc seventh gathering of South Bend '38ers in the pa!.t two and a half years. Present, and for 

"<^lc most part accompanied by thc Mrs.. %vere CHUCK SWEENEY, JIM BE.\UD\VAY, CHAR­LEY DUKE, NELSON VOGEL, CHARLEY BOR­OWSKI, LOUIS ANDERSON, JOHN MURPHY, BILL GIBBONS, JAKE BURKE, FR^VNK SCHAE­FER, BERNIE BAUER. PROF. ED CRONIN and Fisher. 
In closing on a South Bend note, it might be well to mention that Murphy last fall coached Adams high to the finest record in the school's football liistor>-. 
10^ 0 William 6'TooIe 
• ^^^ 176 HilUide Avenue Rochester, New York 
Even before wc read the ad, wc recognized the 

•picture—JOE
 ADRIAN. As General Electric's chief 


•^propeller-design
 engineer, Joc was featured In a 


smicHTfllUffldUS 
MILTON JOSEPH FOLEY, '33 

The executive vice president of the Powell River Company, Limited, of Vancouver. B.C.—one of Canada's outstanding corporations—is a Notre Dame man who once, within an eight-year period 1933-41, rose from lumber company salesman to corporation pres­ident. He is Milton Joseph Foley, a graduate of 1933. 
An impressive, varied career— one marked by outstanding success— dis­tinguishes this alumnus. 
Besides his position with the Powell River Company, Limited, he is pres­ident of the Powell River Sales Co., Ltd., the B.C. Manufacturing Co., Ltd.. and the Westminster Shook Mills Limited. Joe is also the president of the AVestem Society for Rehabilitation and a member of the Vancouver Board of Trade and of thc Canadian Manu­factiuers' Association. 
After his graduation from Notre Dame, Joe became a salesman for the Foley Lumber Company of Jackson­ville, Fla., (1933-36), and in 1936 he joined the Brooks Scanlon Corpora­tion of Foley, Fla., as an assistant to the president. Subsequently he was made a vice president, and from 1941 to 1946 he ser\^ed as the firm's presi­dent. In January, 1948, he accepted the position of executive vice president with the Vancouver Company. 
Joe Foley married the former Kadi­r)'n Robuck in 1935, and the couple have two children. 
full page advertisement in thc Feb. 14 issue of "Aviation Week"—and possibly in others, if we know GE Joe's fljing high. 
And w is another '39er~W.\LT JOHNSON, the old Bengal Bout middle\vciglit king, now vice-presi­dent of .American Airlines, delivered a sparkling address in Rochester recently to a capacity crowd at the annual Sales Executives Club banquet. Walt's talk elcctriBcd the throng and u'as the topic of downtown conversation days after he had left. Prior to. and after, the gathering Walt was host to class­mates VINCE DOLL.\RD, DR. HENRY JOHANT­GEN, BILL WHELEHAN, and BILL OTOOLE. Walt's suite presented thc unusual spectacle of t%vo former Bengal Bout champs, both middle weights, exchanging anecdotes at three paces. Johnson won the title in 1939; Dollard, who was later with Tunney in the Navy, thc year before. 
FR^\NK BR.\DLEY writes that he is a military sales engineer working out of Wethersfield, Conn. He has encountered BOB REILLY at Miami Beacli and OTTO SCHULZE, HANK ROHLE, and BURLEY GRIMES at Wright Field. 
LOUIE DE.MER is a research fellow and Ph.D. candidate in engineering at the University of Min­nesota. Louie was married last September to Miss Mary Jean Ochs of Minneapolis, an event possibly delaying return of his questionnaire, and is doing research on the dynamic properties of metals. 
CARL FRICKE, a wholesale paper salesman for the firm of Tavcrncr and Fricke, confides that he lives in Friendly Hills, a suburb of Whittler, Calif., where he and his family of three have an acre of land and grow a lot of oranges and avocados. He travels industrial Los Angeles, Santa Barbara and Catalina Island. Carl adds—methinks he doth pro­test too much—he works all the time when on the island, but at home gets in a little golf, some hunt­ing, and a bit of play on the stock and commodity markets, the last of which, he says, is fascinating but brutal at times. But you still have your PAPER profits, Carl. 
S. S. FRIEDMAN reports—whether In jest or earnest we aren't sure—that he Is a pawnbroker In Baytown, Tex. The last '39cr he saw wras HAR­\'EY FOSTER and he hears from SAM BORZIL­LERI once a year. S. S. has never seen his name in thc ALUMNUS and isn't interested in Its ap­pearing now. Objection overruled, and write again. 
JERRY GREEN is ofHce manager for Bendlx In Mishawaka. He calb our attention to thc fact that daughter Corinnc Ann. now five, never had a coming out party in thc ALUMNUS, which makes this one of .the few times a baby has ever read her ou'n announcement. Hi, Corinnc! Jerry adds that JACK COLE has been made manager of In­diana Bell In South Bend. Thanks for the Christ­mas wishes, Jerry. 
Ditto to JOE H.ARRINGTON of Colon. Panama. Joc'probably came farther than anyone else to thc reunion last June. Now resident manager of the Pfizer Corp., he finds time to be president of thc American Society of- Panama, president of thc Free-Zone Forum of Colon, national rice-president of thc Propeller Club of thc United States, director of the Colon Chamber of Commerce, and vice-president of the Colon Rotary Club. Joe was host recently to thc late Panama President Jose A. Remon, and thc magazine 'Panama' devoted two full pages of pictures to thc old Notre Dame quar­terback and the republic's prexv. Joe'd like to hear from FxVTHER TO.NI BRENNAN among others. 
HARVEY FOSTER, former president of thc alumni association, now high In thc echelons of the FBI, writes to offer his help on anything he can do for the class. That sounds Itke Harvey whom many of us remember as a workhorse on and od the campus and gridiron. Har\-ey is now sta­tioned in Newark, N. J. 
BILL C-VRROLL, an attorney In Detroit and partner In the firm of Cook, Beake, Miller, Wrock. and Cross, says that other than Detrolters he has seen only BOB SCHRAMM of Toledo lately. What's wrong with naming the Detrolters, Bill? 
BOB HUCTHER, a group engineer at Northrop after being with Lockheed until 1917, drove from California to his home in Pennsylvania and stopped ofT at school briefly on his wav back. He has re­cently encountered TO.M FOYE, P-\T SHEA, AL SHELLOGG, ED GRIMES, VINCE DeCOURSEY. TOM REARDON, BILL STEVENS, and DON MORGAN. Really got around. 
MAURI E LE.AHY, claims department supervisor at Oscar Mayer & Co., meat packers, in Madison, Wis., sa>*s JACK J.\EGER works for the same outfit and nearby is DICK UMHOEFER. Mauric is president of the South Central Wtscoasin Notre 
^oUt Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 45 
Dame Club, and says he'd like to hear from FRED DIGBY, RUSTV RILEY, and RAY TIEL. 
TOM MAHER is manager of industrial relations at Ford's Cincinnati automatic transmission plant, has 12-vear-oId twins plus four others, and the '39crs he last sau- were ANDY \nLSOX, EMMETT CROWE, BILL BRAUN, and DICK ^\NTOX. Andy, he says, is doing public relations work at American Motors in Detroit, Emmctt is a diligent insurance man in Cincinnati, Bill is bucking for his Ph.D. after a trip to London in pursuit of po­litical sa'cncc data, and Dick lias Just been pro­moted to a new labor relations post at General Electric-
TOM McINTYRE is an engineer at the Daly Insurance Agcncv-. Denver, and would like to hear from NORM JANDOLI. Tom would also like a list of ND men in the Denver area. Try tlic alumni office, Tom. 
BART MCENEJ\RNEY writes from Port of Spain, Trinidad, where he is a Firestone distributor, that he Is located at a crossroads for sea and air tra\xl (watch that metaphor, Bart}, that he hasn't seen a Notre Dame man for years and figures that occa­sionally one of the boys must overnight there. TIic welcome mat Is out, he sa\*s, and he can offer a variety of salt and fresh water fishing, good weather, Ii»vely scencr\% and cliolcc of refreshing stimulants. Any lakers? 
JACK O'BRIEN, manager of the plumbing, heat­ing, and building material pool stock of Sears, Roebuck in Indianapolis, writes that be runs Into (ha!) BEEF BEINOR whenever he xisils bis rela­tives In Kankakee. Jack was recently transferred from the Chicago S.R. operations, where he has been since graduation, to his present post. In his new duties, be serves 28 Scars Roebuck stores. Jack adds that JIM ROC/VP has been In the Indian­apolis papers lately as prosecuting attorney in a murder trial. Jack's new address is 4142 Vera Drive, Indianapolis. BOB JOSEPH, BOB VOEL­KER of Racine, and TOM BOSSERT, please note. 
.•\n envelope from the United States Senate bear­ing the frank "Joe McCarthy," could only be from DICK O'.MELIA. Dick Is a Washington attorney and up to last fall's elections was general counsel for the Senate Conimitlec on Government Opera­tions. Presumably, despite the change in legislative power, he still Is. Dick sees PAT GORMAN and HARRY BOISVERT occasionally. 
BILL OTOOLE has been made an account executive at a Rochester advertising agcncv-. The OTooles, after nine years of marriage, during which they ^verc reluctantly assured by the medicos that they would never have a child, will welcome a new quarterback sometime during the football season. The War Department has decreed, which is her privilege, that if a boy he will he named Kc\-in Murphy OToole. Tliat would make his initials KMOT, wblcli sound like the call letters of a midwest radio station. Neighbors will un­doubtedly detect other simtlarittes. 
TO.M ROCHE Is a group super\Isor of the Met­ropolitan Life Insurance Co. In Cleveland. Tom married a Cleveland girl after the war, has four fine progeny, and still thinks 'Notre Dame, to which he returned at the 13th reunion. Is the finest university to be found. He is selling group insurance in the Cleveland area. Anyone knowing prospects, let him know! 
CHARLIE STREATER Is in municipal relations at the Long Island Lighting Co., MIneola, and lias recently encountered JOHN TOO.MEY at New Britain, Conn. "May I say," writes Charlie, "that ibe reunion was great, even though It was so damn hot. It was so good that I've already planned on returning In '59. HII then I'm gonna practice my golf so I can catch up with Gerund, Meyers and Gallagher (J. C) , but being a utility worker it will take some time to catch up to those poli­ticians.** 
SWEENEY TUCK, be of the six-iron shot over the Dome of fond memory', is a construction super­intendent in Whlttlcr, Calif., and guesses his name last appeared In the column about 1903. That must have been In connection with his guidance of the Wright brothers at Kitty Hawk. Sweeney ^vorks on the construction of oil refineries and chemical plants throughout the country'. His duties have carried him to Berea, Calif., for Union Oil; Arkadelphla, Ark., and Corpus Christ! for Reynolds Metals; Houston for Ethyl, and Perth Amboy, N. J. for California Refining. He Is about to embark on a new project for Tidewater Oil near Wilmington, Del. 
Tlicre be will be near a displaced Rocbesterian. CHARLIE NORTON, who u-as recently advanced to the position of assistant to the \'Ice-president of the Madison Chemical Co. in Baltimore. Charlie 
i> in the agricultural chemical division. 

.\NDY WILSON, as earlier noted. Is in public relations work in Detroit. He says that less than two weeks after the reunion, and after be had visited with class father DON O'MELI.A in Mor­rlssey basement, be u'as waiting for a f^ab outside ihc Mayflower in Washington when a shoulder tap caused him to whirl around and confront brother DICK O'MELIA. Andy says Dick looks bale and a few pounds heartier than he did on the campus, and that confirms our TV impression last spring. Dick has only ilvc kids, while Don has retained his svelte figure by rearing nine. 
VINCE DeCOURSEY recently received the Papal honor of the Equestrian Order of St, Gregory the Great. OA\ ^ MESKILL has been appointed man­ager of marketing for the General Electric Com­pany's automatic blanket and fan department. 
Tlie questionnaires arc still drifting in, and we will get around to cataloging some of the Interest­ing data in a subsequent issue. Just bear with us and all will be unfolded. Meanwhile, for those who have gone before us, may Our Lady on the Dome take care of them. 
OETROIT—ND Foundation iiicedng: with Father Hesburgh as ipicst of the metropolitan Detroit area group including, left to right: (sitting) Richard King, city chairman, Dear­bom; Marce Verbiest, State Governor; Father Hesburgh; Pete Keman, Area General Chair­man; John Mortell, City Chairman, Northwest area; (standing) Joseph Schragc, City chair­man, Eastsidc area; Tom Verbiest, City Chairman, Grosse Fointe area; Jack CIear>', city chaimian, Bimiingham area; Bill Carroll, representing Central area. 
^15 yEAR. REUNION JV JUNE lO'lMi 
lOd n Richard Burke ITf W j4g Paxson Drive South Bend, Indiana 
JIM LYNCH is a membership salesman with the 

United States Chamber of Commerce and travels in 
Idaho, Montana and other far western areas. 
EDWARD T. FULHAM has beeen appointed a 

public relations representative of GrneraJ Petroleum 
Corporation. He was formerly employed by West­
ern Oil and Gas /Vssociation. His new assiRnment. 
will include supervision of the company's film li­
brary* and speaker's panel activities. 
I9d 1 J°^" ^^'- Patterson, Jr. 
I y-»i Pittsburgh Press 
Roto Section 
Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 

(Editor's note; The men of 1341 will be pleased to know that JOHN PATTERSON, your com­petent and faithful class secretary, is on the road to recovery after sufTcring a heart attack in mid-January. He Is convalescing at home and will probably be there for sonic weeks to come. I know that all of you will want to remember Jack In your prayers for a complcie and fast recovery*.— John Cackley.) 
A letter from DR. EUGENE J. RYAN is a? follows: • •\ 
"This won't put me in the classification of fore­most class correspondent but at least it shows a sign of improvement—It took me ten years to ^-rlte my first letter and only four more have gone by since then. 
*'To summarize my doings, I better skim back to our ten-year rtomion. At that time I was still in prl\*ate practice in Reading, Pa. Later I went with the DuPont Company In Wilmington as a full-time physician. Since then I have been transferred to the Belle Works located just outside of Charleston, West Va. We have a terrific medical setup here comprising three doctors, six nurses and three med­ical technicians, plus a fine equipped diagnostic clinic In 1953 I had the good fortune of being appointed medical supervisor for the plant. There arc many of the old 1941 gang here In Charleston including JOE NEENAN, BILL REISH.MAN: FRANK SHEETS, M.AX HILL, DAN^E MON­CRIEF and JIM CH.\MPLEY. \Vc've had some great times together in the three years I have been here. Dave Moncricf was married last fall. All of the other *4Iers here have fine families with lots of potential ND and St. Mary's grads coming along in another ten or fifteen years. Frank. Max, Dave and Jim are all engineering things for Carbide and Carbon in Its large plant here. Joe has his own wholesale foodstuH's business and Bill is comptroller for the Baldwin Industrial Supply Company. 
"While In Chicago for a medical meeting, I attended Universal Notre Dame Night and talked to BILL MOULDERS, BILL BYRNES and L.\RRY MAJEWSKI. 
"On the way back from Chicago, I had a fifteen-minute plane stop in Indianapolis so I phoned JOHN McNAMARA. He told me he was starting^ his lost year of residency training in ps^'clilati?! RAY WILLIAMS has completed all his residency-in surger\' and by this time is probably the fore­most society surgeon In New York's Westchester Cownty. JIM WALSH occasionally gets In touch with us. He recently earned himself a nice promo­tion with Bethlehem Steel. I'm already looking fonvard to the big reunion in 1956." 
ROBERT E. RICHARDSON, JR., has moved from Lumbcrton, N. Car., to 1122 Clinton Street, Ottawa, III. 
IQAO William £. Scanlan 
• '^ ^ 400 East lUth Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
RAY ROY, president of Royal Hawaiian Jewel­ers, South Bend, Ind., has been selected as a special lecturer for a merchandising school for Jcwelerr a^.. New York University. 

Notre Dame Alumnut, May^June, 1955 
FRANK O'DOWD and his wife, Pcgg>-, ^v-c^e speakers on thc Marriage Institute program whicli IS held annually for students on the Notre Dame campus. 
\ MAURICE KELLY has recently become associ­ated with thc Barlow Advertising Agency, S>Tacusc, 
N. Y. He was formerly with Crucible Steel Co. of America. 
Here's a report from Bouncing BILL HICKEY, tlic steel baron from Chicago, written in early February: 
'*You told mc recently you were interested in our class information, and would like to report that I was In St. Louts last week and w*hile there had an opportunity to have lunch with ED GRIESEDIECK. He is quite busy w*ith his new daughter, and the actinty at tlic Brewery, where he is now Vice-President, keeps him going at an ever increasing tempo. He told me that lie sees TOM HENNI­GAN frequently. Tom is now in the building and materials supplies business and busy raising his two daughters and a son. 
w^*'MATT FLYNX, who now lives in Omaha, and JIM 0'NE;\L and his family, who now live in New York, as you know, were in St. Louts for 

S. Christmas and they had a vcr>* nice time. He also " reports that GEORGE CONVY is now President of Convy Heel Covering Company and to all appear­ances has really struck gold. 
"I also talked to FRxVNK POLLONOW who is ' now Vice-President in charge of Research at Vestal, Inc., and Frank sends his regards to alt. Hope the above will be of interest. Scoop." 
Bill, for those who don*t know, divides his time between Lapham-Hickc>* Steel Co., in Chicago and points around the U. S., including well-knouTi golf clubs. For example, he had a hand in alTairs at Ridge Country Club, Chicago, where DON HOGAN and his wife arc also active in thc social whirl. You'd never know Don in the *'BathIng' beauties of ycster>-ear" he depicted in a Beverly REVIEW 
f picture. Don, all dolled up in striped longles— topped with a sailor straw hat. 
Thc mailman surprised mc with a letter post­marked Decatur, III., and STEVE GR^VLIKER sent this note: 
"There are members of thc class, namely our Fighting Irish contingent, who might appreciate thc enclosed observation-'* (Tlic enclosure—ED MANG­ELSDORF*s note from St. Louis saying *'Dear Grak: This Lt. W. J. O'Hcrin from Decatur who was shot down after straying ofT course—Seeing as ho^v he's from your home town and doing what he did, I wondered If the Gralifcer influence was re­sponsible. Thc fellow I knew from Decatur was kinda shaky en Xaxigation, too. Regards. Ed."). 
Then from another section of the U. S. comes this communique from ED (CHIEF) GER/\GHTY, Belle Harbor, L. I., N. Y. 
^ Dated appropriately on March 17—"Having just received my copy of tlie ALUMNUS, I thought I would drop a line and tell about my doings since 1942. After four years jn thc Infantry, I went to St. John's University and received my ^1.A. In 1948. Since that time I have been teaching and coaching football in Scwanhaka High School in Floral Park, Long Island. In my spare time I do quite a bit of football and basketball oflTciating In the Metro­politan area. 
"I married Jane Harrigan in 194S and God has given us three fine blonde-headed boys, thc latest of which, KeWn, arrived three weeks ago. We were at the Pciin game last fall and enjoyed the cocktail party afterwards. I get to sec BUD CON­CANNON, a salesman, and JIM TR/\CEY, an ac­countant, ever>' once in awhile. I was back to ND three years ago and enjoyed a fine \*isit in South 

(Bend with Mr. and Mrs. CLIFF BROSEY. Cliff 
^s* sales engineer for General Electric. I am a member of the New York ND Club and attend most of their functions." 
When we get around lo families, I wonder if anyone can match or surpass thc head start thc Figels have marked up. DON and MARGE FIGEL recently announced the arrival of Paul Rudolph on Feb. 6. Paul checks in as No. 8. Thc Figels have had four boys and four girls, playing no fa­vorites, Don observes. 
Svnnging east once again, we've heard from JIM O'LAUGHLIN and HOWIE SCHELLENBERG. Jim came up with St. Pat's Greetings to all thc members of the staff and if anyone visits our Capitol City, be sure to call at the 1025 Connecticut Ave­nue N.W. building. 
Some additional odds and ends: 
BERNIB CRIM.MINS, head football coach at In­/cllana U., was in the news recently, announcing that WALT 2IEMBA is his new line coach. TOM TIER­
JOSEPH E. HANNAN, '39 
A public-spirited citizen and a champion of civic and county chari­ties is the new assistant vice president of South Bend, Indiana's American Trust Company. He is Joseph E. Han­nan. *39. former president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley and a sparkphig of the committee program which attacked the need for a separ­ately maintained detention home for juveniles in St. Joseph County. Indiana, and which resuhed in the completion of that detention home in the fall of 1953. Joe is now a tmstee of publicly solicited funds used in furnishing the home and the adjacent recreation area. 
Joe joined the South Bend bank staff in December, 1946, and served as assistant secretary until the new-appointment. Prior to World "War II he was associated with the Irving Trust Company, New York City. 
A dynamic booster of civic affairs is this "Spotlight Alumnus." Both the United Fund drive and the St. Joseph County Hospital Development Cam­paign benefited from his generous ef­foits. Presently he is a member of the board of directors of the St. Joseph County Society for Crippled Children. 
Joe is married to the former Denise DuBois of South Bend, and the couple have two children. Sheila Ann and Joseph E., Jr. ("Pat")—a Notre Dame man of 1969, 

NEY was busy rushing down Chicago's LaSalle Street recently, lime for a quick "Hello." Tom was all decked out In rubber boots, symbolical of the changeable Chicago weather. The GEORGE UHLs recently announced the addition of another member to the groxnng family. Last reports arc that he's with Sinclair Rcfinerv, Harvey, 111. ROB­ERT EMMETT WRIGHT has recently opened a gala new auto agency, representing DeSoto-PIym­outh, in Summit, III. And MIKE KELLY was recently mentioned in. Chicago newspapers after being appointed to new sales position with Halli­crafters. DAVE HACK reports HARRY KELLEY is on the mend after a bout w^th the doctors in Houston, Texas. Good luck, Larry. 
That's all for now. Remember, if it's news, write Scoop. 
10^ 9 John L. Wiggins 
• '^' ^ 5719 Hohncs Ave, Los Angeles 58, Calif. 

Tins column will start with "thanks" to the generous response of the class to the Christmas letter appeal for some information about yourselves. We have.hit a new high tti lineage for this column. Thc majority of the class received a Christmas letter from mc asking for information. Unfortunately, only 500 copies were printed ^ and mailed, so some did not get a letter. But of those who did we received 34 replies. They are as foUou-s: 
BLAIR ^fcGOW.\X (1106 West Washington, Jackson, Mich.), president of the Jackson Notre Dame Club, ser\-cs as general manager of Electric Wholesale Supply Co. He has six children, Joan, 8; Blair, Jr., 6; Mark, 5; Jim, 3; Mike, 2; and Mar>- Josephine, less than 12 months. Blair was on campus for thc Texas, Michigan State, and 
U.S.C. games in 1954, and In June attended the club presidents' gathering. 
One of thc most interesting comments sent to this column was that from the REV. JOHN J. FR.VWLEY (St. Paul of the Cross Church, Box 326, 
• Columbia City, Ind.). Father John received his 
M.A. with the class of 1913. Until May, 1946, Father Frawlcy was doing intelh'geoce work under the guise of a chaplain for thc U. S. army. ^Vrites Father Frawlcy: 
"Perhaps some of the alumni throughout thc country will remember me as the chaplain at Fort Bcnning who had an organization called Th e King's Men.' TIic purpose of this group was to get thc service men to Niass and Communion every Sunday, whenever possible, and to remember thc spiritual and temporal welfare of all the other *King's Men.* By V-J Day we had over 900 names on our lists. AVILVT HAPPENED TO THESE MEN ^NTIO PRACTICED CHARITY IN THE TRUEST SENSE? NOT ONE C.\SUALTY, EVEN THOUGH THEY ^VERE SO^TTERED IN EVERY THEATER OF OPERATIONS AND IN EVERY BR^VNCH OF THE SERVICE. We do not claim this record to be miraculous, but only that it proves the power of Mass and Communion and diarity towards one's fellow man, even though the latter Is unknown to him. From letters of the "King's Men' and from many personal contacts made with them In the ETO, the CBI and In South America, I learned that many of tliem had narrow escapes which would make a modern Vho-done-iV loot sick. Some day, if I ever get the time and op­portunity, I will publish their letters and will use thc money to establish a tuition scholarship at Notre Dame for a poor fcUotv with brains." 
DAN BARTON (P.O. Box 1055, RothschUd, ^VIs.) is an associate research director for the Salvo Chem­ical Corporation, Rothschild, Wis. He and his wife, Angela, boast two sons, Paul, 4. and Peter, 2. 
BILL HERZOG (5547 St. Irmo Walk, Long Beach 3, Calif.) serves as a customer engineer for IBM. He and his wife, Maril>Ti, have two boys and a girl. Bill reports that \TNCE SL.ATT, Spokane, Wash., and his \rife, Peggy, became par­
. cuts for the fourth time and that GREG RICE is also a "proud pappy.** Bill at Christmastime heard from BOB MURPHY, who is with Lock­heed; DON KOETZ, Kenosha, Wis.; HANK REILLY, Manchester, Conn.; and BILL WAELD­NER, Farmington, Conn. .Another In thc "proud ' father" categorv is BILL UNG.ASHICK of Kansas City. The TONY DONALDO family has moved from Baltimore to York, Pa. 
BOB MURPHY (1622 N. Pass Ave., Burbank, Calif.) checked In ^vith news of JACK H.\RRI­GAN, whom he saw In North Hollywood some months ago; TOM VALBERDING, who is with Northwest Airlines; C. R. KLATZ of North Amer­ican .•\Wation; and C. POLOMER of Los Angeles. Bob got Christmas cards from RENZO J. PESA-
Notre Dame Alumnus, May^june, 1955 47 
\'ENTO <.f Chicago and GEORGE COPPIX of BellexTic, ^Vash. Bob himself is the father of three children, ^faurecn, 4; tuins, 2; and Patrick, 3 months. He is with the Engineering Department of Xorthrop Aircraft working on ''flutter and vibra­tion" problems. 
From JACK HARRIGAX, an electrical engineer in Burbank, Calif.: "Just ciccasionally out here in 'Sunny California' do I see one of onr class. GEORGE H.ANIXGER lives a few blocks away here in Burbank. TIic Christmas mail brought cards from ED CLEARY, BOB PODESKY, JOHN DUNX, and WALT HEIX, all electrical engineers." 
GEORGE H. BL.\CKMORE (Rd. 1, Valencia, Pa.) is the super\'ising casualty underwriter for the Great American Group of Insurance Companies, X'cw York, of PitLiburgh, Pa. Jfe has three chil­dren. George, Jr., 3; Susan, G; and Beverly, 7 months. George reports seeing the MURRIXS and the DILLON'S at the Pitt game in 1954. 
From BOB aVRVER (Education Center, Osaka .\rmy Hospital, APO 54, San Francisco, Calif.): "I am in 'ciWli/ation' after 10 months in Korea. Japan is fabulous! It's terrific! My place of educa­tional Mt>rk is alwut 20-30 minutes away from Osaka in a southerly direction; also Kobe and Kyoto arc within ea5\-riding distance, via the frequent running, rapid interurban electric system. Tlie Xew Year celebrations (this wxs written Jan. 3) are still going on among the Japanese. Most of the color comes from the characteristic dress i>f both the men and the women. However, the ceremonies at the Shinto shrines are unlike anything V\c ever seen before. 
"If any of the class of 'De c 1942,' arc near O^aka .^rmy Hospital, .AJ'O 54, J would be happy to entertain tlu-iii or any of the almost equal campus lights." 
BARNEY O'HORA, M.D. (144 W. Main St., Midland, Md.) recently left Henr\- Ford Hospital, Detroit, to enter the private practice of pediatrics in Midland. He says he sees "quite a bit" of DR. JOHN E. MURPHY, a general practitioner, and DR. BOB BL.\CKHURST, an opthamologist, both of Midland. 

EUGENE C. HILKERT (RFD I, Crest Rd., N. Tewksburv'. Mass.) tells us tliat he did a short hitch in the army during which he worked on tlic Atomic project at Los Alamos. Gene, now em­ployed by the Kappes Company, and his wife, Evflv-n. Iiavc three children. 
For the past seven years the circulation manager of "Atlantic Monthly" has been FRANK HERBERT who writes us that he lives next door to Xotrc Dame aliimmis DAN SULLIVAN*, '30. and '*sec a lot of' ED 0*C0XXOR, '39, who writes many ar­ticles for ".-Vtlantic Monthly" and other magazines and who has Just finished collaborating with Fred Allen nn the coincdiah's autobiography, "Treadmill to Oblirion." Frank has a son and daughter, ages 8 and 7, respectively. 
From BUD DUDLEY, athletic director of Villa-nova: "I enjoyed your little Christmas note and thought it was a ver>' clever idea. We had a bad year here at Villanova in the win and loss column hut FIXAXCIALLY it proved to be the best sea­son in the history* of the school. This, of course, was due to two more promotions with the 'Super­market' cliain. I hope this short note finds you well and I am anxiously awaiting the day when I can again visit Notre Dame and sec you and all our other classmates." 
Back in the St. Louis area is CEXE FEHLIG (110 Parkland. Glendalc 22, Missouri—phone Taylor 1-9172), who spent nine years in Helena, Mont., with a concrete firm. Gene is married to the for­mer Jick Jacoby, a St. Mar>"'s graduate of 1943, and the pair have four cluldren, Kathy, 10; Karen, 7; ^fark, 4; and Ricky, 2. He is affiliated with the Master Builders Company. 
FRANCIS B. FITZPATRICK is now Prater Bcdc of the Order ol Friars Minor, write* from Holy Xamc College, Washington, D. C. He wjH be ordained to the priesthood in June. Frank, who. attended the class reunion in 1948, Joined the reli­gious community in 1950. 
GEORGE A. COPPIX (1605 96ih X.E., Bellevuc, Wash.) is working in Seattle, Wash., as Asst. Chief Flight Engineer in the administrative branch of the Pan American \Vorld Ainvays. George has six bo>-s, Blaine .Albert, Daniel George, Timothy Vaughn, Paul Leon, Christopher Damien, and Ed­ward Allen. 
ART HIEGEL (52 Church Street, Wcthcrsfield, Conn.) reports that he is working for the United .Aircraft Corporation, Pratt and l\'hitney Division, in the experimental department. He and his wife, who last Dec 20 celebrated their lOth wedding an­

48 Notre Dame Alumntts, May-June, 1955 
WALTER J. SHORT, '39 

At the annual organizational jneci­ing Iield in New York in November 1954. AValter J. Slioit, Treasurer of Allegheny Airlines, Inc., whose general offices arc located at the AVashington National Aiiport. AVasIiington. D.C.3 was named First Vice President of the Airline Finance and Accounting Conference o[ the Air Transport Asso­ciation of America. 
A 1939 Cum Laude graduate of Notre Dame's College of Commerce. \VaIter joined Allegheny Airlines in 1949. previously having been identi­fied with aviation since 1941. Between 1941 and 1946 he was Chief Account­ant for Capital Airlines, Inc., and between J 946 and 1949 lie was en­gaged in aviation supplies and the chain food business. 
Walter is a member of the Holy Name Society and the Arlington, Vir­ginia Council of the Knights of Col­umbus. He has served as Financial Chairman for Universal Notre Dame Night celebrations in Washington for the past three years and has ser\''ed the local Club in Foundation and Committee work and other capacities over the past se\^eral years 
He has two brothers, J. Charles, '28 and William E, (1930-31), who also attended Notre Dame. Walter and his \vife reside in Arlington, Virginia with their three children, Charles Wal­ter, II, Robert Allen, 9 and Debra Ann, 3 months. 
niversarv, have two girls and one boy, ages 7, 5, and 2, ^pectively. Sa>-s Art: "BILL WAELDNER is here in Hartford, and \vc see each other quite often. I hear HAXK RIELY is in this wcinity, but I haven't seen him yet. JOE JACOBS is around/ the corner in Watcrhury, and I see him occasion­ally. I got a card from JOE MOR/V and family from X. Y. C." 
A note from BILL KEENAN (54 Meadow St., Xc^v Haven, Conn.): "I hardly ever sec anyone from X'D much less the class of *43 and would be delighted to hear from and about others in the class.'* Bill and his wife, tlie former Mary Ann Ligars, have two boys, Christopher and Gregory. .After receiving his LL.6. from Har\'ard law school in 1949, Bill served one year as a law clerk for a 
federal judge. Since then he's served the legal 
staff of the New York, Xew Haven, and Hart­ford Railroad Co., representing that company before the Interstate Commerce Commission. 
After graduating from Columbia University's law school fast June GEORGE B. BARRETT, JR.. en­tered the Judge Advocate General's School of the tJ. S. Army at the' University of Virginia. He noi-.'^ ser\'es as Post Judge Advocate of Ft. Jay. Governors Island, N^ew York. 
BILL TR/\CY (2975 Marion .\ve.. Box 58, Xew York, X^. Y.) attended a X'otre Dame basketball game on campus in 1954 and he reports that prior to the game he ran Into HARRY WRIGHT, a backfield coach at Georgia University; XEIL GREEXE, who recently left the F.B.I, to join an insurance 5rm as its agent in charge of the Phila­. delphia area; and BILL JOHXSOX. At the game with Mr. Trac>' was his brother, JOE TRACY. 
Bill tells 115 thut brother Joe and his wife were 
blessed recently with their first child, Regina Marie. In concluding his informative letter. Bill says: "I happened to be in Soutli Bend at the lime of BILL DOOLEY's untimely death and it was a great shock to his family and friends. I attended the Requiem Mass In Sacred Heart Church. I hope that we all remember Bill in our prayers." ^^ 
A long silent classmate has at last checked in with us. JAMES E- BRESETTE reports from Kan­sas City, Kansas, that he has established there a private practice in opthamolog\-. He writes: "I re­member sharing a dining hall tabic with you and others one semester, probablv our sophomore year. Mv roommate, GEORGE GARBERRY, JERRY GAIXER, JOE GOEKEX. KELSEY and MILLER were there. 
"I did not graduate with you fellows as you might know, leaving at the end of the junior year 
to attend Sorthwestcm Medical Scliool. I was 
there from June, 1942, to June, 1945, on an accel­erated program and got my M.D. then. In my class were JLM FORD, Peoria; FR.VXK KELLY, JACK BEXXETT, and JERRY CORDES of our X^D class. I see only two of our classmates now and then, DR. BOB OWEXS from Kansas City, Nfo., and WALT .\fcXAMAR/\ of Prairie Hills, a"^ suburb. He is with Brach's Candy Company as their representative in this area. I have now been in pri\-ate practice alone here in K. C. for three years. I am also on the teaching staff of tlic University of Kansas Medical Center. 
"We have a vcr>' fine X'otre Dame Club here. Two hundred fifty members and their families went to the SMU game last fall. Since I left the Chi­cago area I have only been back to South Bend twice, for the Michigan State same in 1948 and the Pitt game in 1952.'* 
Dr. Jim married the former Patricia Umphrey in 1944 and the couple have four children, Jimmy, 9'y4; Judy, 8; ^^ary Pat, 3J4; and Lida Jean, less than a year old. 
BOB DUXL/\Y (152 Illinois, Pontlsc, Midi,), a chemical engineer at Balduin Rubber Company, . Pontiac, writes that he "usuallv sees DICK FLAN'"^ XERY, JACK WARXER's old buddy," every Sunday at St. Hugo of the Hills Churcli In Bloom­fieJd Hills. He and his iWfe, .Marilynn, celebrated their ninth wedding anniversary' In Januar>*. Thc>* have three children, Mike, 3; Barbara. Ann, 5; and Mar\' Martha. 7. Bob, who manages to see at least one X"otre Dame game a year ("usually the .Michigan State one") missed the lOth reunion of the 1943 class and is "looking for^vard" to the 15th get-together. 
TOM FARMER (205 Wellington Road, Dcwltt. 
X. Y.), who three years ago opened his own ofHce as a consulting structural engineer, tells us that he and his wife, Idella, have two clilldren, Tom, 4, and Joan, under a year old. 
DICK KELLY (123 So. 20th Street, Terrc Haute, fnd.) '^managed to get in a little golf and a tot of conversation" with TOM SWEEXEY and DICKi^ .McCORMiCK on the week end of the 1954 Irishl 
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Danic Foundation, attended the Uth annual niectini^ of the Air University's Board of Visitors. Others in photo include: (left to right) Lt.-Gen. Laurence S. Kuter, Air Uni\-. conunander; Maj.-Gen. Dean C. Strother, vicc-conmiandcr; and Brig.-Gen. James H. Wallace, deputy conunander. 
Texas closli^ wliicli the trio wjtli tlicir wives at­tended. Kelly reports that Tom is with the Lilly Company in Indianapolis and that Dick ^(cCor­mick Is a food-freezer distributor in Grand Rapids. TIic Kellys also attended the Michigan State fracas. "BOB KUIPERS splashed by during the game," concludes Dick, "but it was ralnini; too hard to start a conversation.'* 
CHARLES MURPHY (7522 Teasdale, University City 5, Mo.), plant manager of Paisley Products, Inc., of St. Louis tells us lie saw LEO LEWIS, BILL WARXICK, WALDO WILSON and DAN MURPHV around the first of the year. Charlie has three children, two girls and a boy. 
From JOE aVMPAGXA (The L. C. Rancli, "Fowler, Ind.): **There are several other Notre Dame alumni in this vicinity, and so wc keep in .touch with ND pretty well. Wc saw the Purduc­
-^Notrc Danic game, and I lost four steak dinners. 1 saw and talked to BERNIE CRIM.MINS some months ago, and he looks the same as he did when I played baseball at school—same old 'pepper-pot' —never gives up in defeat." Joe Is in the farming and cattle business. He lias three boys and two girls." 
JIM DOU'NEV (Suite 615 Haney Building, West Palm Beach, Fla.), who earned a law degree at Florida University after IcaWng the University of Notre Dame, Is a member of the Paty, Downey, and Paty laiv finn of West Palm Beach, Fla., and has practiced law in that comnmnit>' since 19^8. tic writes that within the past several years he has collaborated with JOE TRACY, who is practicing law on New York City's Pine Street, on several legal matters and that some months ago on a visit to Gotham he spent sevtrral evenings witli Joe and 
^lis wife. Jim reports: "Coincldentally, in the same mail with your letter came one from JACK HINNECAN. As you probably know, 'Finn* is a major in the marine corps in the legal otiice at Camp LeJeuiie. His address Is: 213 York Street. Jacksonville, N. Car. His wife and children are at Lejeunc with him." 
*'.-Vs you probably know. Noire Dame is playing the University of Miami next year in Occober, and Notre Dome Clubs are beginning lo sprout up like musliruonis around South Florida. It will be ({ulu­an event for us since Notre Dame has never been down this way before." 
From JOHN K. LEt\HY (1635 Pine Grove Ave­nue, Port Huron, Mich.): "Got a card from my old roommate BILL ALB.-VNY, notifying us that he has six cliildren now. I wonder what the class record Is? Vd like to take this opportunity to say ^hcllo' to JIM MADIG/\N. BOB LcMENSE, and LOU KRET/, and would like them to know that 
I would appreciate hearing how each one of them is doing." John, afltllatcd with his brother in the Triang/e Supply Co., a wholesale plumbing and heating company, now has two boys, one S'/j and another 714. He and his wife were at the '54 Irlsh-Spartan clash. 
BILL LILJESTROM Is now the assistant manager of chemical and petroleum market sales for Reyn­olds Metals Co., Louisville, Ky. Bill, the father of one boy and two girls, has really "been around" since 1943. After he emerged from a three-year stint in the naxv as a lieutenant, he went into business In Los Angeles. He u-as transferred to Louisville In 1954. 
BILL CARROLL, JR., for the past two years municipal attorney in Woodstock, III., writes that within the past year he has done "legalistic combat" with J.ACK BARRY. Bill is a member of the firm of Ilamer and Carroll and now boasts a family of four boys. 
A prominent pediatrician is JOE KRESOCIC (77 Mapte Street. Springfield 5. Mass.) who re­ports that at a Chicago convention several months back he saw Alty. Jack Barry and his former ND roommate, BOB WALSH, who Is now with Gulf Oil. Joe savs that at the Irlsh-Pcnn fray he ran into BILL COSTELLO of Gloucester City, N. J„ and R.-\Y KELLlHER. Joe Is a member of the American Board of Pediatrics and the American .Academy of IVdiatrlcs. He and his wife, Ann Marie, are the parents of two—Kevin, 4J4; ^nd Colin. 2'/2. 
From FRiVNK KAISER (Chatsworth, III.): "Saw the Texas, Purdue, Michigan State, Southern Cal, and Iowa games. PAT BRtVDLEY was In from 
X. Y., JACK TALLET from California." Frank also heard from, or met recently, DICK McHUGH, BILL MIDDENDORF of Fort Wayne; CLAIR L.\MBERT; PETE MORITY of Mansfield; JIM W.\LSH, formerly of Streator, now of Kankakee; and a\R L BEINOR, '38, the proprietor of the Big Bear grocery In Kankakee. Frank concludes: "Sold my gin mill last April to a gent named Murphy and spent the summer managing a bar in Iron River, Wis., known as Plnecrest. It was strict­ly an ND resort with the '\^clory .March' part of the daily routine. I'm now back in Chatsworth taking a rest. Have to settle down soon as our three sons—Mike, Pat, and John, 2, 3, and 4— are big eaters." 
From BOB LeMENSE (Notre Dame, Ind.) %vwd comes that REV. GEORGE BERNARD is now rector of BreenspJiilUps Hall. Bob, a reservist re­cently **sprung" by Uncle Sam, was In Dallas briefly during January. He has returned to the campus for law school, from which lie will be graduated in June. He is the editor of the "Law Review." Bob also reports that he received Christ­mas greetings from HERB BECKER from Rome, Italy, where Herb's duties as a- TWA navigator often take him; that J.ACK DUNLAVEY Is pur­suing sales work In the New York City area; that former football manager ART KE^XTING Is a comp­troller for an Eastern Carbon Company; that JOHN SCHINOLER is active in the Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce; HANS O. HELLANO Is a Wisconsin lawyer; that JOE HAAS is a partner In a South Bend dnig concern; and that DR. RALPH ONOFRIO, .M-D., Is an obstetrician in Philadelphia. 
.Another Dallas visitor recently was BILL WALD­

NER. BILL .MIDDENDORF vvrites that he h mov­
ing soon to the Washington, D. C.-Baltlmore area 
where he will resume work for the Mack-Miller 
Company. 
DICK CORNWELL (1018 E. Fox Street, South 

Bend, Ind.) is on leave of absence from the Fed­
eral Telecommunications Laboratory, Nutley, N. J. 
Dick Is on a teacliing fellowship at the University 
of Notre Dame and expects to have his master's 
by .August, 1955. The parents of both Dick and 
his wife live in South Bend. 
CY DONEGAN (92 St. George .Ave., Stamford, 

Conn.) married Irene Wrighlsman Jan. 29 In St. 
Ignatius of Loyola Church, New York. 
From ED HICKEY, 911 Washington Road, Grosse Poinlc 30, Michigan: "BILL FISHER writes often from Rye, N. Y., and travels here several times a year. BILL BR^VDV fell off the earth's edge so far as I can tell, no word at all. BILL MORE­HEAD'S purchase of a Chc\Tolct agency In Ken­tucky should bring him to Detroit more often." 
194 4 George Banscillo ' '^ ^ 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
Co-chairmen JOHN LYNCH and BILL TALBOT report progress as plans and early preparations roll on for our DOME. It's a gigantic undertaking further complicated by distance, but we're happy to note that John and Bill arc making headway, and one day our class, too, may have o«r own DOME reviewing the highlights of our college years and recalling many happy moments and cher­ished friendships. .Any who may be Interested in contributing their efforts to this project are urged to contact either John (c/o .Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, Ind.) or Bill (300 Main Street, White Plains, 
N. Y.). John, incidentally, reports the birth of a fifth.child at the Lynch home. JOE CHRISTEN writes an interesting letter from Ossining, N. Y.r 
*'By my own hand, but with my wife's Inertia, I write to bring you up to date on the Christen household. She has a right to Insist on this small obligation to you 'cause she has recently presented me with our third, a boy. This addition fits well into our happy family of another boy and a girl. 
**Sorry I wasn't Mc to keep up with the activi­ties of the New York club last year. .And that in turn can be blamed on my employer, the Lummes Co. The few times I was able to make it I was sure to sec JOHN DUFF\' who has been very active and lends his help to that group. 
"I received a Christmas card from BOB BIEGEN but the return address was washed off the envelope. He lives in Danville, Pa., working for Merck Chem­ical. He might like to hear that I saw JOE Ec\TON and vbited hts home in South Bend at th« reunion. I might add that he treated HANK DEWES and myself royally while there. Too bad some more of our old Chemical Engineering buncli did not show; although I enjoyed reminiscing with the group that was there. I expected to see TOM FERRARI foi sure—what 'hoppln' *? I would enjoy hearing from any of the class o{ '44 who may be living around Ossining (outside of Sing Sing) or Westchester county." (Joe's address is 4 Osage Drive, Ossining, N- Y.) 
We received an Invitation to the formal grand opening of the Vignola Furniture store rrcentlv from FR.\NK VIGNOLA. It's located at 7617-25 
W. North .Avenue, River Forest, Illinois, and while this is not meant as a commercial we're noting the address because the invitation said "refreshment> will be ser\ed." If you hurr^' there may be Mune left! 
Congrats to BOB and Mar>- LONDERGAN on the recent arrival of Bob, Jr. JACK and Gloria McKENN.A also report a visit from the stork, their third, this one a girl. Jack is working in Linden, 
N. J. for Esso Standard Oil. He reports seeing JOE SIMONS and E.ARL ENGLERT often. Jack's address now is 6 Village Circle, Wesifield, N. J. 
HANK DEWES writes from Ei-ansvillc, Ind. (2511 Bayard Park Drive) that he is still keeping Inter-
Notre Dame Alumnus, May^June, 195S 49 
y 
national Har\'cstcr's refrigeration division on their 
feet in £\-ansvil]e. He has a son, Eric (3) and a 
daughter Laurie (2), and wrote how mucli he en­
joyed the reunion. He sees ED KEMPF frequently 
and tlie latter sends greetings to all. 
The Los .•\ngelcs "Examiner" recently ran a full­pi^c spread on Ranclio San Antonio, the "Boys Town" of the West- This rehabilitation habitat for about 80 boys from strife-torn families and young­-siers who have had minor bnishcs with the law is located in Chatswortli, California, and operated by Holy Cross Brothers. Its director is one of our classmates. Brother CARLOS DOLAX, CS.C. The Rancho is situated below the Santa Suzanna ^Its. in the western end of the sun-drenclied San Fer­nando Valley. Brother Dolan regretted very mucli being unable to attend our reunion, sends his best to all the class, and would welcome news from any '44«rs who %\'ould care to write. His address is 21000 Plummer Street, Chatsworth, Calif. If you're ever in the vicinity, I'm sure a visit to the Ranclio and a first-hand sight of the work being done there would be most interesting. 
Tlie Chem engineers were especially well repre­sented in the column this time. How about some news from the A-B. and Conmicrcc men for the next issue? 
Perhaps you noted in the last issue of the ALUM­.\US that FATHER BROUGHAL recently cele­brated his Golden Jubilee. Father Broughal's many friends will be interested In learning that be is now back ar Notre Dame, 30* Corby Hall. He uould enjoy hearing from you, or a \*isit from you when passing through ND. 
#10 mAR. UJEVHlOfH 
IQA C Al Lesmez I 7-TiJ J22 Tullamore Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 

THIS IS IT 
This is the last column in tlic ALUMNUS before 
the reunion. I have a deadline of May 20, for copy 

for the next issue, but I do not tliink it will be 
printed and distributed before our June 10, 11, and 
12 reunion. So make up your mind NOW that this 
is a oncc-in-a-lifetimc opportunity. Tlicre just won't 
be anotlier lO-year reunion for any of us. Most of 
the class is planning to be there, so don't you miss 
out on it. Plan the weekend ahead of time. Do all 
you can to be there with all of us who are going 
to make it rain or shine! 
REUNION JOTTINGS Local Chairman BILL KLEM writes that all in­dications are that the *45 gang will be housed in Badin Hall, along with our neighbors, the class of '50. . . . You should check in on Friday . . . bufTet dinner a\'ailable Friday .. . a class bar open *'for business" continuously (beer and set-ups) . . . class elections at the Class Smoker Friday night . . . golf outing, tournament, and Softball game Satur­day afternoon, box lunches. . . . Alumni Banquet for all attending the reunion Saturday night, held in the Dining Hall. . . . NROTC wing of the *45 class Smoker in the Morris Inn after dinner Satur­day evening, paralleled by the non-NROTC class members' get-together in the same Inn , . . class bar still in operation. . . . Sunday morning Memo­rial Mass for deceased members of the class. . . . Memorial Breakfast for the '43 Class in University's pnv*ate dining room closes the weekend Sunday morning immediately after the Afcmorial Mass . . . all this for approximately $23, including room, board, and refreshments. (ND cliarges a unit fee of $20 covering room for two nights, banquet, Fri­day buffet, Saturday luncheon, beer, class insignia, reunion mailings, etc) 
MEMORIAL ^LASS TO BE CELEBRATED BY ONE OF OUR ME.\fBERS 
Back in 1945, a column was written in the SCHOLASTIC about one of the graduates known by many as "Bev," or "Willie," or even "Bashful from Nashiolle." He was well liked by all, being a good athlete and an excellent student. He vrzs a member of the V-12, and had come to Notre Dame as a "dvvie'* in September of 1912, from Nash­

50 Notre Dame AlumnuSt May-June^ 1955 
ville, Tennessee. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Aeronautical Engineering. I am referring to WILLWM S. BEVINGTON, today Father Bevington, with a parish in Nashville. Father Bill Bevington \vill be the Celebrant at the Memo­rial Mass for the deceased of the class, on reunion weekend. I had \-isited tvltli Father Bevington In Rome while he was a student just before being or­dained, and it Is a real pleasure now to see tliat one of our own members will celebrate Mass in memory of those members of the class who have passed away. It could not be more appropriate. 

CLASS ELECTIONS Two slates of oflicers for the next five years will be presented to the class on Friday night of re­union weekend. Elections will then be held for the class ofiicers. ^Ve need seven officers to carry on the u'ork of the dass. Elections u-ill be held to get a President; a Vice-President for each. East, Mid-West, West and South; a Secretary; and a Treas­urer. Tlie class cannot grow, and cannot stay unified, without active and energetic ofiicers. It will be wp to eacli member to v-ote for officers who will do a good job. And to vote, you will have to be there! 
AN INVITATION TO ALL FRIENDS You, of our neighboring classes who glimpse through tills column spotting names of old friends here and there—you, of the classes of '44, '46 and '47 ^vho were part of '45 before the war split so many of our groups—are all hereby invited to join with us in our reunion. If you feel that there are enough members of the class of '43 whom you kno^^% and whom you \%'ould like to see and have a few drinks with, just come on along to the reunion. Just drop JOHN CACKLEY of the Alumni Office, or me, a card telling us you'll be there, and we'll do the rest. In particular, those men in the '44 class In the NROTC who were orig­inally scliedulcd for 1943 graduation, and those men who started with the '43 bunch, but who came back to ND to graduate much later, are Innted to join with us. It is a sincere inWtatlon because we feel that %vc all have a common bond. We want to see you as much as you may want to sec us. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTME-VF 
From DAVE a\RTWRIGHT: "How are you, Al? Sorr\' it's so long between letters. It seems to take Christmas to get my pen in motion. Don't know if you know about our tribe and all tlie latest additions: there's David, Jr., age 6, Thomas 3, Roberta 4, Candis 2, Timothy 1. Everyone here Is in real good cheer and health, anxiously awaiting Santa. We hope this letter finds you as well. 
"About tlic reunion—^It would take Just short of an H-bomb to keep us away. Marilyn and the kids plan to stay witli her folks while Vm on the campus, so \ve arc really planning a big trip for that weekend. We haven't seen any of the class in two years since CHUCK SARTORE visited us. We live In Cleveland and like it • very much. Wouldn't trade It for an>'whcre else. 'We've said tliat everywhere •we've lived but Cleveland Is real nice. Hope to stay a while. 
"Your committee action towards tlic reunion sounds real good." 
From EDWARD J. NOONAN: "For months I have been ivanting to write you, but for some w*cak excuse or another I kept putting it oR, Since talking to a fellow classmate and former roommate LOU COLLERAN last Friday, I realized it was time for me to get on the ball. 
"Lou and I started at school in 1941, which put us in the class '45. Due to the war, Lou and I didn't graduate tmtil June '47. I stayed in the class of '45, but Lou strayed to the '47 class. Now Lou has seen the light, and wants to be placed in the '45 class. Would it be possible for you to add liim to your mailing lisL Lou's business address is 3760 Oakwood Avenue, Youngstown, Ohio. Both Lou and I plan to attend the reunion in June '35, so kindly add us to the list. 
**For your information, Lou, who is married to Jean Spittcr of Soutli Bend, has three children. His last baby, Tim, was born in November. He's employed by the Roll Farmed Products Company of Youngstown. 
"My wife, Florence, and I have been blessed with four wonderful children—split 30-30. My last baby, Thomas Patrick, was born October 19, 1934. I am working for the Smpson Logging Company of Se­attle, as the Midwestern Regional Manager." 
Frt)m BROTHER ISAAC JOGUES MOTZ, CS.C.: "May the Peace of tlie Christ Child be with you. I hope you have a very blessed and a happy 
Christmas. May the Peace of Christ reign In your 
heart and in the hearts of your family. 
**Now that I am back on the campus again, I 

hope to join the Class of '45 in the 10-year reunion^ 
Keep up your good work, Al, so that the Class 
of '45 will remain a united force for the cause of 
Christ and our Blessed Lady." 
From BERNARD E. GOTTA, JR.: "A high pro­

portion of our classmates have already achieved 
the pinacle of ultimate material success ascending 
to the presfdcnc>* of corporations. A few are: BOB 
ERKINS, President of Snake River Trout Com­
pany; BOB CRONIN, President of Franklin Secur­
ity Company; DON CISLE, President of Cisle Pav­
ing Company. JOHN LAVERY is a highly success­
ful corporate attorney, while BILL *ARCH* WAD­
DINGTON ranks among the world's great sales­
men. BILL GRANT visited Chicago a few weeks 
back, looking fit and expressing enthusiasm about 
his sons and his anticipated daughter. Bill is the 
Sales Manager for a large Erie, Pa., bakery. My 
persona] claim to fame lies in the dual accomplish­
ment along with Bob Erkins of landing two of thc^ 
biggest fish ever caught at Acapulco, Mexico. 
**I certainly do want to be included officially as 

a member of the class of '45. I'll be at the reunion 
in June. Guess you got my dues already. Best 
regards." (Welcome to the class, Bernle. It's a 
pleasure to have you **aboard"; regards, Al.) 
From ROBERT E. MACK ('46): "/Uthough I ac­

tually graduated from Notre Dame in 1946, I am 
writing to ^TIU since the majority of my classmates 
actually received their degrees in 1945. 
*'One of o«r classmates was a boy by the name 

of BOB PERRY. Bob, along with quite a con­
tingent from Notre Dame, went on to the St. Louis 
University School of Medicine. Many of us pledged 
to the Phi Beta Pi Medical Fraternity. Bob died 
early in 1945 as a result of bums received acci­
dentally during the fraternity initiation. 
"Bob was only one of many of our classmates 

who lost their lives during this period. But the-r 
others who died in the war at least died for a 
cause. Bob died as a result of a useless and-pur­
poseless accident. 
**I hope you will find it convenient to print a 

reminder In your column in the ALUMNUS of the 
lOdi anniversary of their death, asking prayers for 
him and for his parents, who lost their only child." 
(Wc shall remember Boh in our prayers and in 
our Memorial Mass.) 
Bom to ROBERT A. and Beraardine M. ERKINS, October 16, 1954, a daughter, Mellnda Alter Erkins. The Snake River Trout Company has obtained the scr%iccs of PHILIP D. SHEA, JR., class of 1«9, as assistant manager. 
From BOB ERKINS: "Count me in the class of '45. Will see' you in June at the reunion. Best regards to all tlie class, and keep up the good work." (Thanks, Bob. You sure are welcome to; the class roster. Tlie satisfying part about this job is hearing from the men, and having others write in, like you did, to ask to be entered as class members. See you in June. Regards, Al.) 
From FRANK R. BEAUDINE: "I'm borrowing my \vlfc's stationery to get off a few lines to accept your invitation in the last issue of the ALUMNUS to join in wltli tlie class of '43. Actually, I think I was tlie class of '44, getting my commission from tlie NROTC In Febmary of *44. I returned to ND after the war and got my Chemical Engineering degree In '47. It seems witli each Issue of the ALUMNUS, however, that I am more familiar ^vith tlie names of many old friends in the class of '45 and am looking fon^'ard to the 10-year reunion in June. 
"I have been with the U. S. Rubber Company In Mislia^^-aka since graduating from ND and am cur-i rently the Manager of Industrial Engineering, i married a Virginia girl and we are expecting No. 4 in Marcli. 
"Being in South Bend I run Into a lot of the old crowd frequently, particularly at football game time. Most recently I met HUGH WARD and his wife enjoying our victory over Michigan State. I'd be most pleased to hear from any of the boys who are in town for visits. 
"Please keep me informed on plans for the re­union. ^Vith best personal regards." 
From JIM RETTER: "Staying here (the Morris Inn) reminded me of our coming reunion, so I thought I had better let you know I am still alive. I now live In Grand Rapids and have South Bend in my area, so I stay at the Morris Inn about three or four nights a month. 
"Now tliat I am in Grand Rapids I see quite ai^ bit of BOB WOODHOUSE and GEORGE WEISS. 
"I was in Chicago last week for the paint show and saw DICK SEIDEL and BOB BR/VSINLEE there. I also saw BILL WADDINGTON .m the airport bus. 
V'AU in alL I have beccn pretty fortunate about ninning into XD fellows and saw BYRON AURTIN at the last A.LCh.E. meeting in Cleveland. By is living in Chicago, which reminds me I was sup-
I posed to phone him when I was in town. I hope he forgives nie if he sees this. DICK SEIDEL is with DuPont at Wilmington and Bob is with Anderson I'ntdiard, selling in the St. Louis area. Bill is in Advertising and plans to attend the re­union as you know. 
"No more news except that I will see you in June. I'll be glad to help on that greeting cnm­niitlcc.** 
From FATHER BILL BEVINGTOX: "Your Jnvi­'-1 tation to be the celebrant at the Memorial Mass ; i for our class at the ten-year reunion certainly 
'. '\ thrilled me. Ten years ago sounds like a long time, :.;but how short the actual passage of time seems. I I ^ could not have imagined what would be in store 
r: ITn years hence from that time, and neither could :'i the boys for whom the Mass will be offered. f' ''Although the life of a priest is not completely his </• own, to be where lie wants when he wants, I can ^' see nothing that will stand in the way of my accept­^'i ing your invitation—or that of the class. I certain­'M ly cannot refuse and will eagerly look forxvard to M seeing the faces of the sur\*ivors—doing whatever is ^ necessary* and within my power to be there. Thanks ^ for remembering me and the trip to Rome.'* |r From FR.\NK DEL.\NEY, JR.: "Many thanks for ^ the Christmas Card. I'nt sorr>' that I had to mark 
'M the space opposite those not being able to make the M lO-year class reunion in June, but as things stand, b| I won't be able to attend. It would be swell seeing h% a lot of the gang again and I know that I will >3 be missing out on a big time, along with the fact I-' that it would be good to be back on Our Lady's rVf-c^mpus. I do have some news though for you that -' you could put in the class column. I am engaged % and being married on the I6th of April in Louis-J villc, Kentucky at Our Lady of Lourdes Church to 
Miss Joyce Ann Malloy of Louisville. Again I am sorr>' that I will have to miss out on this class reunion, but possibly I can catch one later on." 
From C. J. WOLF: "Barring any unforeseen happenings I still intend to make the reunion in June. Nothing new has happened in our household since I last communicated with you except the ad­dition of Patricia Lynn last Mav. That makes little Wolf No. 5. MARV PROSCHE left Sinclair for a position with Brown in California. Hope to see you in June." 
From HARRY J. GILLIGAN: "My brother Frank and I are both planning on returning for the 1935 reunion. That is, if his four sons will 
( 
j( ^lennit his absence. In my case, it's a combination Ij of one girl and two boys, the latter arrinng on All Saints Day." From JOHN H. TERRY: "Baby girl, Susan, 6 lbs. 8 oz. born December 9th. Now have three, but not one is a candidate for Notre Dame as yet—harem 3 developing.*' 
I From BOB GRIFFIN: "On November I5th God il blessed us with his greatest gift, a son. IVe named I him Robert Kenneth, Jr. Mother, Baby and yes, S EVEN Dad arc all fine. Had my old roommate I DAN O'DONNELL at the house for the weekend of ^ October 16tli and can honestly say he hasn't q changed one bit. After the usual talk and refresh­^ nients we WTote a joint letter to J. D. USINA in 
.'I Norway. Looking fonvard to June and the reunion ;:• and wishing you ever>"thing good in the New Year." t From JAMES L. UVMB: "Third son born No-I S:fmbcr 2, 1954, Timothy Charles Lamb." 3 From WELTON R. ABELL: "We have another 
red-headed boy. He was born this past spring and 
looks like a good running mate for his older 5 brother, age 2i4- Am employed as an Account I Executive with a national advertising agency*. Al, 1 please change your records as to my address. Here I it is: Welton R. Abell, 234/. S. Bcntley, W, Los j Angeles &4-, California." 
j From RICH/\RD N. MARTIN: "JOHN GL.\BB, I '46, now lives in San Diego and is active in the I Notre Dame Club. He works for Shell Oil. If I 
am able to attend the reunion, I'll try to talk PHIL MARTIN into coming with nie." 
From E. VERNON FROST: "Completed two more years active U. S. Nav>- duty in May *54. Re­established our business as Frost Engineering Serv­ice Co., 5253 E. Beverly Blvd., Los Angeles 22. 
JtVhile in Petroleum OfGcc in Pearl Harbor, met 'Eileen Barker (then Secretary- with Pan American 
When the University of Notre Dame basketball team arrived in Tulsa last February for a game ^vith Tulsa University, they were greeted at the airport by Marty O'Connor, former Irbh basketball captain (1950-31 season). Marty was stricken with polio in 1952 when assistant basketball mentor at his alma mater. He has been attending law school and work­ing in Tulsa recently. In the center of the picture above {left to right) are: Rev. T. J. Lane, C.S.C., chaplain, Mrs. O'Connor, Marty and his son. Captain Jack Stephens, Coach Johnny Jordan and Business Manager Herb Jones. 
in Hawaii) and was married 27 June 1954 in Seattle." 
From BOB McCARTHY: "Sheila Mary arrived Sept. 17, 1954 to join Maureen Anne and Daniel Timothy—I think that Dan (class of '74), who weighed in at II pounds at birth, should make TERRY BRENNf\N's eyes light up when he sees this tackle prospect." 
From JACK McGR^^NE: "Sorry I forgot about my '54 dues, but here's hoping I'll be the first sending it in for '55. You might mention that we had our first baby, Elaine, on November I5th. Sorry we can't make the reunion." 
From LOU L.\UTH: "On December 8th we be­came the proud parents of a 9-pound 14-ounce boy, John Brian. That makes us six children: three girls and three boys.** 
From BUD MALONE: "We had a son born on Dec. 14 and Sheila will be home early next week. This makes our family one girl and four boys. Sheila and the baby are fine." 
From WALTER M. DERMOTT: "Sorry to hear about FRED MILLER, killed in a plane crash. December 17. HARRY RYAN slops in every week to call on Nash. My new address is at home G416 37 Avenue, Kenosha, Wisconsin." 
From BERNARD J. SCHOO: "On July I. 1954 I completed five years of surgical residency training and started in private practice. I have been quite busy thus far and it is more pleasant than the previous training program. My wife Catherine Iiad our fourth cliild (Ann Catherine) on October 3, 1954. I went to the Kentucky Notre Dame Club dance December 27, 1954 and plan to go to the Notre Dame-U. of L. basketball game January* 3, 1955. Thus you see this year has been pretty busy and next year should be a pleasant one. I hope >'ours is the same." 
From GEORGE A. SCHWARTS, JR.: "If my cal­culations are correct, I'm about three years in arrears in my *45 class dues, so enclosed is a check for same. At present, Vin in the process of open­ing my own furniture store, Penn Colony Wayside in Paoli, Pa. Incidentally, send all class data to me at 7-9 W. Lancaster Ave., Paoli, Pa. \Vc have just had our fourth child, third boy, last Friday, Feb­ruary* I8th. As soon as my wife b able, the family will be moving to Paoli or vicinity. Recently saw JOE 0*KEEFE now with Outdoor Adv. in Phila­delphia." 
From RAY BADDOUR: "I married Anne Bridge in Detroit, Midi., Sept. 25th and am ver>* happy with married life. I am building a house which will be finished on January lOtli. As of that date, my new address will be: 19 Mfxrcasin Path, Arling­
ton, Mass. Come sec us." (Thanks, Ray, and con­
gratulations from all of us. Best, AI.) 
The assignment of JOHN E. FALLOT to the Albany, N. Y., sales branch of the Glass Container Division, Owens-Illinois Glass Co., has been an­nounced by Sidney F. Davis, vice-president and di­vision general sales manager. 
The class extends sympathy to DAVE CONDON 
on the recent death of his father. JIM CLYNES 
is now practicing law in his home town of Ithaca, 
N. Y. The address Is 221 North Albany Street. 
JAMES L. FAVRET has been elected to the Board of Directors of the Ohio Federal Savings and Loan Association. Jim is vice-president of the Wil­liamson-Favret Furnace Company, 55 East Goodale Street, Columbus, Ohio. 
From JOHN POWER: "Needless to say, I en­joyed the last *45 column very nmch, as usual. Here Is my $1 dues. FRANK LINEHAN should object to the series of pictures of him in the last ALUM­NUS, as his age is starting to show. I have a standing rule whereby pictures of me are only taken if my wiie Gloria is In the picture. She is so pretty, no one notices me. 
"Am now living at 1933 Balmoral Avenue, West­chester, Illinois. Gloria and I were married years ago, and wc have a real 'buddy* named John, aged 4. That part of the house which he leaves standing is subsequently destroyed by our Irish Terrier, Rusty. I do some trial work for an in­surance company and, for some of the large meat packers. 
".\m sure going to that reunion in June. I have been discussing It with FRANK PAULSON, JOHN RINELLA, JLM KENNEDY, JOE BRADY (very ricli).- and TOM McC^UGHEV (richer). Best wishes.'* 
From WALT McDEIOIOTT: "Received the ALUMNUS this morning and glad to get it. They have my address straightened out at last. I an­swered the questionnaire and said I %vas comlng^ to the reunion, but failed to sec my name on the list. Looking forward to seeing you in June." (Look at the list now! Best, Al.) 
From Mrs. CHARLES R. LUGTON: "Enclosed is Chuck's dollar for . . . well, I'm sure YOU *nll know! Three clieers to the Notre Dame class of *45!! Chuck has been wanting to write, but just has been too busy. Regards to all.** 
From ED LaROCQUE: "Just a note to tell you wc are the happy parents of Edward A. Ill, bom last October, weighing In at 8 pounds, 2 ounces. Marilyn and I are both doing well. Will sec you at the reunion." (Congratulations from all of us, Ed and Marilyn. Am looking forward to seeing you In June. Best regards, Al.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Afay-Junct 1955 51 
WHO WILL BE THERE: Aft up-lo-date check oti those »»Iio have indi­catrd that tlicy will malic the reunion lias been made, and tlic list appears below. Others are still to be heard from. If you don't see the name of a friend wlioin vou \v<ndd like to see tlicre. why not drup him a line and encourage him to come. Look over the class list which the Alumni Otiicc mailed you a few niunihs ai?o, and pllone friends in your area—or write friends too far to phone—and tell them you are goini;. Indications so far are that Me vvill iiavc over 150 members at the reunion, so help to yet the gang there. Here is the list as I have it as of now: (* indicates lliej- are not sure vet.) 
GEORGE DESPOT, JOHN L.\WSO.V, L.\RRY 
.NOOK, FR:\XCIS .MARTIN, EL.MER GILLES­
PIE*, HARRY RYAX, BOB CROXIX, BILL 
KLE.M, KE.V KEHL, TO.M CLIFFORD, HA,\K 
SLAMIX, BRYCE SMITH, BY .MARTI.V, CLIFF 
.MARKS, DAVE CHA.MPIO.V, BOB .MADDE.V, 
LOU L,\UTH, BOB LUKE, TERRY WILSON, 
JOHN .MEYER, J. D. USINA*, BOB THO.MAS, 
HARRY BERLINER, BILL MOORE, JOHN TER­
RY, JI.M FAVRET, BUD GOTTA, BILL WAD­
DI.VGTO.V, FR/IXK NASH, JOH.V L.AVERY, JOE 
LONG, ROBERT C. REARDOX, ED FAUST, 
CHUCK SARTORE, BILL GR.-\XT, REV. JOH.X 
CO.VNELLY, JOH.V RYAN, RAY' KOPITUK, 
FR.A.\K DEL.\NEY, TOM BERGIN, JI.M PARIS, 
BOB RIORD.\N, BOB GRIFFI.V, BROTHER 
KIER,\X RYAX, JI.M SCHAEFFER, CHARLES 
LESLIE*, AL LES.MEZ (with bells!), Vl}iCE 
LAURITA, FR,\XK GILLIGAX, HARRY GIL­
LIG.AX, BOB S.VEE, D.WE a\RTWRIGHT, DICK 
YOUNG*, BILL CLE.MEXCY*, .MEL TO.MBER*, 
J.VMES LAMB, FR.Vs'CIS GUIXEY, H,VNK 
P.WNE, JI.M RETTER, CLARKSOS FISHER, 
JI.M DUG.\N, CHUCK WOLF, JOE ME.NEZ, 
JACK KE.\R.VEY*, JI.M CLYNES, HARRY WAL­
TERS, JOH.V O'ROURKE*, ERNIE RAUCHER, 
PAUL H.\.\,\AGA.N*, MIKE COFFEY*, JOE 
O'KEEFE, ART .VXDERSOX*, DICK LEITE, 
BUD MALOXE, FRED VICIC, JOHN RIX­
ELLA*, FRED .MAURER, JI.M .iXDREUS, 
H.ANK FRrMLEY, JOE LAUCK, JOE HAGGAR, 
PAT FILLEY*, J. RICHARD S.VYERS, R,VY 
BADDOUR*, BOB .Mc&\RTHY*, JOHX BROZO, BROTHER IS.UC MOTZ, REV. CHARLES .MAR­HOEFER*, JI.M WHITE, WALT .McDER.MOTr, JOHN HOSBEIX, DESMOXD CURRIER, DICK .MARTIN*, PHIL .MARTLV*, JACK GiSSIDY, BOB LUKE, REV. .MICHAEL J. MURPHY, JOHN ROSCHER*, ALFRED AVADE, BOB HUGHES, JOHX CAROX, PETE .McMAHON*, ED La-ROCQUE, JOH.X .MACK, BOB ERKINS, CHUCK LUGHTOX, FATHER BILL BEVLNGTO.V, GEORGE SCHWARTZ*, \TERNO.V FROST*, JOH.\ POWER, FR:\.\K PAULSO.N, JI.M KE.V­NEDY, FRANK CURR.AX*, JI.M O'COXXOR, TOM McCOUGHEY, REV. CHARLES CAREY (.NROTC Chaplain), JOE BR.\DY, FRED "GOD­FREY" BREMER*, and others still to be heard from. 
AX APOLOGY 
If you have written me lately but I have not acknowledged it, nor has the news been in this column, please bear with mc. Tlie reunion work. along with the back-logged number of letters and Christmas mail, has made it necessary to hold off much of the correspondence until the next issue. With the next column, 1 hope to dear up everything <m my desk. Tliat issue slionid be out right after the reunii>n. 
There's nothing more for ine to say now, except that I sure hope to sec YOU at the reunion. I'll keep in tourji with members nf the class wit}t one or two more mailings concerning lasl-minnte reunion news. But this is the last oflicial word, so s*loug until we shake hands and have a beer at Notre Dame in approximately lute month. Be there if you want to have the linn; of viuir life. Until then, Al. 
1 946 J="='' Tenge, Jr. 
"^* ' 35 Hughes St, Apt. 2 
Hartford, Connecticut 
1QAJ James E. Murphy 
• ^^ ' 1706 ChurchiU Dr. South Bend, Indiana 
EDWARD C. UARLSON has been named sales manager of electronic products for Elgin National Watcli Co. Ed is married and the father of two children. 
51' XolfL' Dante Alumnus, May-June, 1955 
JOHN C. THO.MAS lias joined the advertising firm of Farson, HufT and Northlicb as a copy-contact executive. 
19dfi Herman A. Zitt 
• '^* ' 635 Belmont Pfc.. No. Dayton, Ohio 
1 QdQ John P. Walker I 7-»7 g26 Wing Street Elgin, Illinois 
TOM HOWLEY, in I)ll^iIll••lS ai Schenectady, roaclicd St. CoIuinbaN Sclionl lo a successful bas­ketball season »-ith 12 u-on and 5 lost. lie lias tutored the team for tlic post six seasons. 
JOHX MOU'BR/IV has recently been elected pres-
Ident of the Serra Club in Las Vegas, Nev*. 
JAMES E. MURPHY has announced the open­ing of his lau- office at 1204 Industrial Bank BIdg., Providence, R. 1. 
WILLIAM O. WARD is an attorney and his of­ficc is located at 8238 East Third Street, Downey, Cah7ornta. 
First Lt. LEO J. PARADISE'S address Is Box 182, Officers Mail Section, Fitzsimons Amiy Hospital, Denver 8, Colorado. 
Capi. CHARLES R. WAGNER, U.S.A.F., AO 708595, 37th Air Rescue Sqdn., Box 101, APQ 328, San Francisco, California, writes: 
"I met a Xolrc Dame aJumnui tor the first time during this overseas tour when Second Lt. ALBERT 
J. LINDEN, class of '52, I believe. Joined the 37th .\ir Rescue Squadron in August. Last week upon being appointed Chief Navigator, I gave him a proRcicncy check ride vvhich he passed *\'itJi flying colors. As a result he is now listed as a fully quali­fied navigator and will be responsible for his crcw'*s navigation on any search or intercept rescue mission that may arise. 
"In early October he and I were navigators on a long-range training mission from Japan to Hicksn .-Vir Force Base, Honolulu. Over-flying Mid«'ay Island, the trip out required 17 hours, 13 minutes. .\fter staying at Hickam for tlirec da>-s, \vc departed for Midway and was thankful the island was located there for we lost No. 3 engine while in the pattern for a landing. U'aiting for a new engine to be fiown in and hung required five days which we used very fifectively jn siviniroing and acquiring a tan. The leg from Midway to Japan was accoinptished without incident. 

"At the time I became Chief Navigator, my addj/­tional duties as Public Information Officer and IIU­lorical O/ficer held prior to then were transferred to Al who, I'm sure, will do a much better job than 1. Incidentally, 1 consider x\l the best of the new navi­gators that recently arrived." 
::: 5 ^EAR. (LEUNION ir JUNEIO-n-li '• i^ 
.-.• • -^ _•. .^, 
19e n Richard F. Halin ' '^^ 6930 North Odell Chicago 31, 111. 

As today's column goes on paper it's a plea.sant Saturday afternoon with signs of a wann and pleas­ant spring ever>'whcre. -Vs I am writing I keep thinking oi a wartti<:r and plcasanter Saturday around the 10, 11 or 12lli of June when I'll be belling a golf ball between beer stops (I mean holes) on ND's golf course. Or maybe if PAUL BUCH\*N­SKY or some of the boj-s bring along their tennis racquets we can be playing a set or two. "nils topped off with some fine fmid and some more re­freshments plus a lot of talking witij the boys of Morrissey and Howard Halls, a fine weekend will be in store. I understand that our class will bf taking over Badin Hall which will put us right in^* the middle of things. Hope to see you all that weekend. 
.Vow for the news. MACK SCHAEFER dropped a card saying that he is a Jet instructor at Williams .\ir force base tn Arizona. Mack expects to be discharged in .'\ugust and although a leave In June seems far-feichcd he ha.'; hopes that a cross-conntr>' 
NEW ORLEANS—Club President >\'iIIiaHi H. Johnston congratulates Coach Johnny Jordan after ND's basketball \*ictory in the Sugar Bowl tourney. Looking on are Lloyd Aubrey, Jack Stephens and John Smyth, Irish players who made AlI'Toumey team. 
night will enable him to be down for the reunion, He also reports tliat BOB DAVID and TOM MORf\K are working for Standard Oil Company and that he bumped into them just before Christ­i\jas. Mack is still a bachelor and enjoys sweet freedom. 
FRED BOLTMAN sent the poor old secretary a Christmas card; inanv thanks. 
FR^VNK BIGGERT writes *'Oiir tliird child, a daughter, arrived last November 17. That makes two girls and a boy." Frank obtained his profes­sional Engineers License i" Ohio on December 1, 1954 and is currently employed with the Ohio Bell Telephone System in the building department. 
A little news from the secretary* is that his third youngster, Laura Marie, arrived on the I9lh of February"; both mother and daughter are excellent. Also the Hahns have bought a house in Chicago in the Edison Park section on the Xorlbwest side and will be moving in about the 1st of May. 
IVO FATIGATI (MS) was in town a week or two ago and DON MURPHY ('49) and myself had a pleasant dinner together and talked over old 
DONALD J. KRAMER has been promoted to assistant construction engineer for the Glen Aldcn Coal Co., which is the largest anthracite operation in Wyoming Countv, Pennsylvania. 
J. PATRICK PLUNKETT is in the sales depart­ment of the Shepherd Caterpillar Distributor Co. in L<»s Angeles. His address Is I46I8 E. Rosecrans, La Mirada, Calif. Pat Is married and the father of a new son named Kenn Patrick. 
WILLL\M D. GORDON formerly with General Electric Co., Lynn. Mass., is now in OCS, (U. S. Xaxy) at Newport, R. 1. 
JOHN C. GOOSSENS lias joined the staff of the Whiting Research Laboratories of the Standard Oil Co., of Indiana. He is scheduled to receive his Ph.D. from the University of Mar\']and this com­ing June. 
RUSSELL E. MINGES has been named assistant 
,-n-anager of market research tor the Croslcy and Bendix Home Appliances Div. of .-\vco Manufac­turing Corp. 
BERNARD L. THO.MAS hxs been appointed to the sales staff of WHOT, South Bend, Ind., as account executive. 
1QE| Robert T. KHnqcnbcr^cr 
• ' ^ • 1823 Griswold Dr., Apt. 0-22 Fort Wayne, Indiana 
Capt. VINCENTE T. BL.\2 (Ben) U.S.M.C., Ut Bn., 5th Mar.. 1st Mar. Div., F.M.F., c/o F.I'.C, San Francisco, Calif., writes from Korea that he's trying to get assigned to the NROTC unit at Noire Dame in order to be there for the re­union. Also, he writes that he has seen AL Lx\­
JPORTE in the 7ili Regiment and JACK HALEY who was in the 5th Regiment. 
Received Christmas cards from—Marv Claire. Billy, Francis and BILL ANHUT, 8170 Ford Road, Ypsilanti, Michigan; currently attending Michigan Lau-Sch<H,l Sally. Lynn Marie and HANK MAD­DEN, 414 fVshantilly Ave., St. Simon's Island, Georgia; now a Lieutenant (j. g.) in the Na\-\-. BILL COONEY, 415 Sixth St., Washington, D. C ; now a full-fledged attorney and continuing some law studies while awaiting Uncle Sam's bid. Joan and PAT B.VRRETT, 25-C Sunn>-side, University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas; Is now teaching nild­sbipnien at the University of Kansas and expecting release from the Na\y this summer. 
BOB EDMONSON (no address) but HANK MADDEN writes Easy is attending Har^*ard Busi­ness School and graduates in June. On October 9 
>Iie became engaged to Mar>' Dillon of New York City and plans lo ^e married on June 11. Con­gratulations, Easy. 
CUFF COLLINS, 1st Lt., U.S.A.F., Hq, Sqdn., 7 DCT, 376th Bomb. Wing (.\I), Barksdalc, AFB, Louisiana. Nancx-, Jeffrey and HARVEY O'NEILL, living in Peru, Indiana. Send me your address, Harvey. 
Luo- and ED SULLIVAN, II Center Lane Drive. Hamburg, N. Y. Kathleen, wife of D/VN J. Mc-C/\RTH^', writes that he is with the Catholic Chronicle in Toledo and that Tom McCarthy was born on October 7. Congratulations, Dan. Their address is 1958 BIrchwood Ave., Toledo, Ohio. 
Joan, wife of JOE MacCORMxVC, writes that Lois Kathleen was born on January 10, 1954, and that Joe has been transferred to Charlotte, North Ca­roh'na, as Works Accountant. }fc would like to bear from bis old roomies JACK LORENZ and I.OU HAFNER. (So would I—some news.) 
KANSAS CITY—The ND Auxiliary is now in its third year and recently installed new offi­cers as follows: (left to right), Mrs. Robert P. Pendergast ('35), auditor; Mrs. Henry Brous­sard, whose son George attends Notre Danie, vice-president; Mrs. Joseph R. Stewart ('22), recording secretary; and Mrs. Sam S. DiGovanni ('36), president. 
Born on November 8, Marv, to Gloria and JOE 
COLEMAN, 509 Powbattan PI. N.W., Washington 
II, D. C, 
BUD HERR tvas married to Miss Barbara A. 
Autrcy of Shawnee. Okliihoma and has returned to 
Cbatsworth, III. Congratulations. Bud. His busi­
ness address Is Citizens Bank of Chatswortli, Chats-
worth, 111. Incidentally, rumor has it that Barbara 
attended Oklalioma University but is really an ND 
fan. Welcome to the winning side, Barbara. 
LUCIUS F. CASSIDY was married to Miss Mary Frances Slierrj- on October 30 in Tulsa, Okla. Con­gratulations, Pete, good luck with that Irishman, Mar>'. 
Here's some additional news I picked up after the 
Miclitgan State game and which I'm a little tardy 
in reporting— 
DAN B.VGBY and Nancy have a son and arc liv­ing in Detroit, Michigan. (What^s vour address. Bag.) 
Saw TO.M -MYERS and DON SOSDAC, who will graduate from Northwestern Medical School this June. P.AT O'SULLIV^VN is out of the scr\icc and attending Michigan Law School. Jovcc and JERRY H^\NK are living in Chicago. PAT Mo\TEER is back on the campus working on bis master's degree. ED SULLIVAN was taking in the game whjlc on %-acation. Wc all iitet later at a party at ED Mc-CJVRTHY'S, '50, who was currently working in New Orleans. 
In Febniar\\ Br>'an Christopher was bom to Joey and DICK .MacDONALD, 241 Schilling Drive, West Lafayette. Ind. Congratulations, Luecg! 
JIM HENNESSY, Southern Trust BIdg.> 151 South Fifth Street, Louisville, Kentucky, is with his father In the Insurance and real estate business. 
It's been TOO long since we've heard from many of the Class of *5I—when you get a chance, send us your address. 
REU.VION LN* QG. 2nd Lt. JAMES B. MOSES has reported to the Marine Corps for a tour of duty. He has been assigned to the Legal Oflice. ROBERT R. INGItrUI has been employed as an associate engineer in the Motors and Transformer Engineering Department of Sperr\* Gyroscope Co. 
DAVID C. HOENE has been named assistant to the president of Regis College, Denver, Colo, He is married and the father of five children. 
Rumor has it that BOB REILLY is now living in I'acific Grove, Calif. BILL GALLfVGAN's new mailing address is 711 Fourth .Ave., IVestfield, .V. J. 
1QC9 Harrj- L. Buch 
•^^^ 309 Fisher Hall ^ Notre Dame, Indiana 
Have heard from quite a feiv of the Class of '52 so will relate all the news I have at present. 
JIM MUTSCHELLER, ED PERT, DICK WIN­DISHAR, JACK HYNES and CHARLES SCHU­BERT have completed their stay with the Marines. 
Jim was in South Bend around the first of the year. 
Kc is engaged to a girl in California and worHng 
there at present. Ed is coaching football in Bev­
erly, Mass. Dick is Jn graduate school at Stanford. 
Jack and Charley arc la South Bend. The old 
Chaz and Jack show Is on WHOT every morning 
from 6 until 8:30. 
Lt. (j. g.) CHUCK DOOLEY at last report was 
stationed in Norfolk doing' his flying with one of the 
squadrons there. Lt. {j. g.) BOB JAY is also in 
Norfolk assigned to the duty ot Design and Plan­
ning and Estimating OfHcc for the Public Works 
Department of the Air Station. Lt. (j. g.) ED 
SULLR'AN is stationed at Little Creek with ABC-2 
and was to be married October 2. 
CARL CUNNIXGR.A.\f was stationed aboard the heavy cruiser U.S.S. Macon. While aboard he pre­sented a scries of piano concerts for Rear Admiral Arleigh Burke and other dignitaries. At last report he was at a Na\-y base in Boston. JOE B.AUTERS is working in South Bend, married and the father of two children. He passed the C.P.A. exam last 
summer. 
BILL WHITE is living In Glen Ellyn, III., and working at the Continental Illinois National Bank. He is married and the father of a little daughter. TOM TRi\NTER, married and has a son, is work­ing for the Midwest Stock Exchange. .At present he is living at 7500 So. Shore Drive, Chicago, and in­vites all the troops in Chicago to stop by. DICK MCNAMAR A has a florist business in Indianapolis. 
ED ELSTON, JR., is working for a restaurant supply and equipment concern- in Cincinnati. He is married and has two children. D.AN H.ARRING­TON is a Lt. (j. g.) in the Navy and was last heard from in Guam. JOE O'CONNOR is attending Fordham Law School. FR.ANK BRENN.AN, attend­ing Long Island University College of Medicine expects to graduate in June. DON RILEY is doing well for himself in the drilling business in Brooklyn. DICK COOK is finbhing his third year in New-York ^(edicaI School. 
JOHN CRONIN is attending Medical School at the University of Cork in Ireland. J.ACK PLAN­NING is attending Law School at Fordham and is editor of the Law Review. CHARLES SEIBERT is finishing off his tenure in the Navy and is sta­tioned on the eastern seaboard. 
DICK WEILER returned from Korea around the first of March. He was married to a girl from Glcnwood, III., on the Iffth of ApriL JIM GRAHAM returned from a year in .Alaska, got a job iviih Remington-Rand, and is now in ^Vash­ington, D. C. ^^KE KELLY was discharged from a two-year stint in the .Air Force and is now in Law School at Michigan. GEORGE HERO is with Uncle Sam and is in. Orleans, France. BOB PETERSON is located Just north of Him in Ger­many. NLATT KERGER is a salesman for United Boiler in Hammond, also, engaged to a Gary girl with wedding belU in May. FR.ANK MYERS is in the Army stationed in St. Louis. PETE G.AR­VEY returned from Korea and was married at ND on January 3. 
xVofre Dame Alumnus, May-June, 1955 53 
JIM COMMONS is a member of G. S. Olive and Company, CPA^s m Indianapolis. Passed the CPA oxam in November and was married in September. TOM MALONEV is out of the service and at last report was Iieadint? for Los Angeles to pursue a job ofTer. JERRY SCHAUB ^v-as married and in his wedding party were WALLY PURCELL and "PE.\CHES" FOLEY. Peaches and Wally along with ELMER LAYDEN ^vcrc up for a couple of football games. 

BILL MARTIN returned from Germany, was married in November, and is nou* working for L\^)rand Ross Brothers and Montgomery, an ac­counting firm. GENE ALBERS and JIM ETLING arc also on the same staff. Jim was marric<l in October, Graliam, Kcrgcr, Commons and Martin were all in the wedding party. Fanning and Kelly sang while. Prof. Daniel Pedtke played the organ. A real ND wedding! 
GEORGE BROWN, TERRY O'LAUGHLIN and TOM DUNLAY were up for a football game. Had a real party down at the Oliver. BOB KAPISH is a special agent for the New York Life Insurance Company in Akron, Ohio. 
DICK STUBBING graduated from Har\-ard Busi­ness Scliool and h now an Ensign in the Navy located in Alliens, Georgia. He ^vill marr>- Pat Quigg (queen of the *52 senior ball) on April 30. All the troops arc invited. BOB HARMON will gradu­ate from the DePaul Law ScIiool in June. DON FAGER and LOU NITTI are both in law school in Nc^v York. 
JOHN BARRY, married, is a salesman for Cater­pillar. ANGELO CxVRIDEO is in Mt. Vernon, N. Y., married and has a son. JACK ECONO.MOU is a freshman in the ND Law School. BILL GOR­MAN is in Purdiase, N. Y., and JIM HAWXS is in O.C.S. at Lackland A.F.B. in Texas. HANK McCORMACK is in a sales training program with Phelps Dodge Copper Products, Inc., and is to be located in Chicago. BILL TOOHEY is a grad stu­dent at the Old College on campus. He is dated for C.S.C. Noritiatc at Jordan, Nlinn., in August. JACK URBAIN is working for the State of Illinois as a Iiighway engineer. 
DxWID G. WILMOT has recently been pro­moted to Lieutenant (j.g.). His address is Lt. (j.g.) David C. Wilmot, USS Sturtev-ant, D.E. 239, c/o FPO, New York, New York. 
ED\\'.\RD J. ALTHERR, JR., has been selected for training as a Na\-al .\viation Cadet. He will report to the Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla. 
P\T . EDWARD R. VLAUM has been assigned to the Inspection and Equipment Agency of the Army Chemical Center, Mar>'land. He received basic training at F L DL\. 
JIM (CONNIE) HIGGINS passed the C.P.A. exam and is scheduled to graduate from Law School in June. .\t present he is teaching account­ing to the freshmen and sophomores in the Com­merce School as a sideline. JOE G.ARG;\N and TOM KING arc also due to graduate from the ND Law ScliooI in June. As for myself, I hope to graduate from Law School in June also. Have been teaching Business Law in the Commerce School for the last year. AVill have to sign oflT for now. Keep the news coming and I'll do my best to keep the column filled. Only two more years till our first reunion. 
1 953 ^"Scnc D. Fanning Fanning ChoToIct, Inc. 415 West State Street Genc\*a, Illinois 

WILLL-\M A. DOSMANN was recently honored by being named "Soldier of the Montli" at Fort Lewis, AV'ashington, where he is currently stationed with the Army. Bill was guest of the city of OlvTnpia, Washington, for a weekend and, also as part of tlic award, placed a free long-distance tele­phone call to his home in Mbhawaka, Ind. 
A'ERN S. SUTTON has been appointed advertis­ing manager of the South Bend Toy Manufacturing Co. He u:as formerly with the Studcbaker Corp. 
CHARLES J. BILLERBECK has joined the stafT of the Whiting Research Laboratories of the Stan­dard Oil Co. of Indiana. 
IQC^ Ens. George A. Pflaum 
I 7 J t U.S.S. Guiiston Hall, (LSD-5) 
c/o Fleet Post Office 
San Francisco, California 

I al*vays regret to have to prcfbc any correspond­ence with apologies for not haWng UTittcn, but the necessity for it this time is inevitable. Time hasn't 

54 Notre Dame Alumnus, May-June^ 1955 
allowed me to meet outgoing mail call as often as 
I have benefited from incoming mail from all of you. 
Uncle Sam has kept us busy with fifl\--sk continuous 

dav's of steaming while aiding in the Haiphong, 
French Indo China, evacuation, $o believe mc, lately 

there has been time for little else. Please consider 
my ofTering below as my reply to your many letters. 
JOHN DONAHER and AL KELLY are sales pro­moters with the Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corp. in Yonkcrs, N. Y. JOE ZIE.MBA and SLUG SLUGOAVSKI are working in New York as ac­countants, but Joe expects his bliss to come to an end as he heads for Navy OCS in the spring. J. D. M/\DIG.\N is running a grocery store in Lake­hurst, N. J. JIM HERRON and JOHN ANDER­SON arc enrolled in the Owens-Coming Fibreglass Company's training program, while JOE SHELLY is in St. John's Law School in Brooklyn. LEN DURY and PHIL BOLIX arc now stationed in Japan with the Marines. ED MADIGAX is work­ing for his father's construction company In Oak­land, Calif., while RAY TILLY is sitting light out there for a draft call. WALT >VAGNER is working as an insurance salesman in Louisville, while JOE MALONEY is going to law sdiool in Washington. 
TOM HALEY has been enrolled in a specialized radar and electronics school at Fort Monmouth, 
N. J., after receiving the honor of Top Trainee at Fort Leonard Wood. Second Lt. FRANK LEX^ USMC, was recently married to the former ^liss Kave Schlasser. He is presently stationed at Quan­tico with JLM LIBERTORE, TOM McCABE, and JOE ^\'EBSTER. BOB ETTLEBUCK is stationed at Camp Chaffee, Arkansas. 
Second Lt. JIM MULANE sent along enough news to vmtc this column himself. He is stationed at Schenectady General Depot as Ordnance Storage Officer and calls it *'a real deal—about five hours from home and about three from the *city'." His brother. Jack, will be going to the Air Corps as a 2nd John In May. Jim passed the word on that: JIM HAMLIN and LEON BLANK arc 2nd Johns in the army and in Ordnance School at Aberdeen Proving Grounds. 
KARL W7ENKE and TOM NEUMAYER arc all "books" at Georgetown Med School, while KIM HEAVSON, HARRY HADLOCK and JERRY NIECE arc much of the same at JefTcrson Med School in Philadelphia. 
JACK MAGILL is working for Worthington Pump, Harrison, N. J., in the air conditioning de­partment. DON LANGFRIED is serving on an ice breaker in the arctic as Damage Control Offi­cer. BOB NiVNOVIC, JIM STUBLER and JIM McCOMB arc in .-Vrlilleri' Officers School at Fort Sill, Okla. JOE HULHERR is in Airborne train­ing at Fort Eenning, Ga. Down at the Fort with htm is another bunch of 2nd Johns going by the names of MIKE LAUGHLIN, FRANK KETTLES, DICK DELMONTE, PETE SUNDSTROM, JOHN REDDEN, BOB RUST and JOE D'/\N*TONIO. PAUL KELLEY is burning the books up at Michi­gan Med School, while .MIKE LEVIS is including a little fraternity life with much of the same typfc study at St. Louis U. 
.MIKE NEVILLE, LEN WELSH and DAVE ME.\GHER arc officers fresh out of Quantico, the latter played some football down there last fall. DICK McNAMARiV is working In Indianapolis managing a florist sliop. JOHN O'DONNEL is currently selling concrete brick down in South America. BILL BORD, JACK DILLON and JOHN PICKERT recently completed basic train­ing at Fort Knox, Ky. Thanks for the help, Jim. 
JOHN a\SEY and D/\NA \VEITHERS arc mem­bers of the "Remington Raiders" squadron as they prepare themselves as Clerk Tv-pists at the scho«il of the same name at Camp ChafTee, Ark. JIM LOONAN writes of the project that he has in hand of compiling an EE Class of '54- directory. Sug­gest that all of you EE's that haven't contacted him to drop him a line. Don't know where to exactly, but since he is presently somewhere with th2 Army Signal Corps, I'd try his home address. CHARLIE O'NEIL left shortly before Christmas for Europe as a Clerk T\*pist with the army. BOB RAYMOND is serving aboard the USS Murclct (AM-372) out of Long Beach. HIL.\RY RAUCH Is in the same port on the Impeccable (A^f-320]. Both scrv*e as the Engineering Officer and claim to get together often to compare headaclies. RICH HOH.MAN v\-a5 married to the former Rowena Schlatz in February* and had his honcj'moon in Nassau no less. BRUCE FOX is working with DuPont in Wilmington, Del., still struggling towards his first million. Bruce is spending mucli of his time working with the local Catholic Youth Organization and is serving as president of his local chapter. JOE DcPIN*TO is also working for DuPont, stationed down in Aiken, S. C. DAN MOTZ says that he is designing dance decorations up in Akron while waiting for the call to arms.» He claims that the Headwaiter still holds a table for him on weekends up at Tliilman's Tap. Dan sends word that BOB FARNBAUCH is working with General Electric in Fort Wayne while MARSH KINNEY is in the army stationed at Fort Jackson, S.C, and TOM KNOTT is in the same branch at Fort Devers, Mass. JOHN KELSCH, Ens. USXR, was married to the former Pat McGinnis last December in Eric, Pa. 
JOHN SCHLOEGEL is working for Haskins and 

' Sells, Certified Public Accountants in Milwaukee, Wis. PAT LALLY and JOE LeBLxVNC went through basic together at Fort Leonard Wood, while LES LESZCZ\'XSKI took his army basic at Camp Gordon, Ga. BOB GRO.MAN and MATT MORAN arc among the many at the ND Law School. JOHN STEWART Is studying for the priesthood at the 
HOUSTON—^Thc annua! retreat was held in February. Among those attending were: Top row (left to right), Tom Standish, Ed Dowd, Jinmiy Young; middle row (left to right), Ted Powers, George Hill, Jerry Slater, Ed Cyr, Tommy Green; bottom row (left to right), George Gist, Bud Brockman, Father Dominic Merriman, C.P., Father Herman Stier, C.P., Bill Gar­rett and Paul Doyle. Brockman and Garrett were co-chairmen. 
Diocesan Latin School in New Berlin, 111., while TOM SCHWIXN is doing the same at St. Bernard Theological Seminary in I>iibuque, • Iowa. MICKY MORAX was introduced to military life with basic training at Fort Jackson, S. C , while his former roomie, DAVE FOY, prefixed his entry into the Army with a tlirce-wcek vacation in Hawaii during December. 
Among tlie new faces at Xa^y OCS in Newport in January- were those of FOSTER PACKARD and DICK GRIXDELL. Both arc planning to go tlirough Salvage School and become divers. Foster reports that: BILL TILL is working with tlic Ohio Stale Highway Department, DA\'E BICKEL is with the Army Engineers at Fort Bclvoir, and PAUL SCHWEICKERT played some football with the Marines while stationed at 29 Palms, Calif. 
ED MURPHY attended Army Information School at Fort Slocum, Xew York and is now acting as the Battalion Troop Information and Education Spe­cialist for the 575th Engineer Battalion^ Fort Bcl­voir, Virginia. KEX MURPHY reports, TOP OF THE WEEK. . . . The Anny's got Murphy; 
•BOTTOM OF THE WEEK .. . for two whole years. Murph was married in the fall to JoAnne, his St. M3r>''s fan and reported shortly thereafter to Fort DLx. At Dix lie ran into the follo^ving Irish contingent: JLVRK TREMBLAY, BOB BLOOM, JIM HURLEY, JIM ZxVVATOXE, BILL NOO­X/\X and BOB STEWART. To BOB McGLYXN: no Class of '54 directory* as yet. Due to the service addresses as indicated by the above, the Alumni fVssociation doesn't tr>' to make up a list until near the fifth reunion. Second Lt. JACK Mc^VNIFF is working with the Personnel Scr\*ice Squadron at Chaniite Air Force Base, Rantoul, III. His job con­sists of arranging and producing the entertainment for the troops at the base. BILL KEARY worked with the Chevrolet Division of G.M. before an­swering Uncle Sugar's call in Januar>*. He passed the word on that BOB FRIES was married in 
_^ugust to the former Julie Skelly of St. Mary's. ED GSCHWIXD and BRUCE WARRIXG arc go­ing through Xaval Air Cadet Training while Second Lt. JOHX LYOXS is with the Air Corps at Bartow .•\ir Base, Bartow, Florida. 
JIM DRESSER Is working for the Pcnetr>-n Sys­tem, Inc., in Albany, X'. Y. Jim married the former ^lary Fennock shortly after graduation. GEXE NfcKERR and ED LEWIS are in Law School at Loyola of Chicago. Ed recently became the proud poppa of a baby giri. JOHN GUSTAIXIS is in (light training at Marana Air Base in Tucson, .•\riz. DICK RYAL is in the Chr>-sler Company's sales training program in Detroit. *'MOE" BERG is studving Law at Wayne University. TOM MOORE and BILL COXLEY arc in Med School at Loyola. PAUL TIERNEY is selling air condi­tioning in Glen EUyn, Illinob. 
.>• News on tlic 'M arcliitccts comes through the courtesy of DOX CUDDIHEE who reports that he was married to the former Dorin Lavin last June and is now working with the J. T. Golabowski Designers in St. Louis. He can be reached at 5325 Gladstone Place, Apt. E, Normandy 21, Mis­souri. BILL KAXE was married last fall to the former Joan Hardy of St. Mar^-'s. Bill is now working for an architect in Chicago and is living at 102 Lincoln Ave., Riverside. Illinois. GENE HAUSMANX is with the Fifth Armd. Div. at Camp Chaffee, Arkansas. BOB KARLESBERGER is furthering his education in Landscape Architec­ture at the college of the same name, Cornell Uni­versity, Ithaca, N. Y. 
JACK NASHERT made the '5t Engineers' Ball Queen, Mildred Brant, his wife last July, Jack is now stationed at Fort Bliss in the Personnel Sec­tion; ED Hf\NN/\N is at Bliss -with the ArtiIIer>'. ART PETERSON is stationed at Fort Sheridan, 
111. GEXE ANDRESEVIC is with the Artillery in Washington, D. C. JOHN GLASGOW is working with \fcDowell Aircraft in St. Louis, III. PETE SCHWENK is in the air corps stationed in Illinois, while JIM DASCHB.\CH is in the same outfit out in Denver. BILL GUILFOILE, JOHN KELSCH, RAY KURKOWSKI and JOE GIOVANINI are busy counting shorts and shirts in the Naval Supply Officers Sdiool in Athens, Ga. Bill reports that BOB GREENE could use our prayers while re­covering from a case of polio in St. Joe's Hospital, South Bend. 
MILT BE;\UDINE is heading overseas on the USS DIachenko (APD-123) on the first of April and J.\KE NOON*\N leaves for the same area about the same time on the USS Philippine Sea (CVA-47). JOHN LANDIG is working with the Hercules Powder Company in Wilmington, Del. LEX PETRILLO is working in the same city with his father in the construction supplying field. DICK GERBRACHT is working with McConn-Erickson Advertising Agency in Cleveland. JOE FALK is working there too with Ford Motor Company and VERN ESSIE is with Arthur Anderson Accounting Co. in that same area. BILL MEYER is selling lithography with Great Lakes Lithograph Co., 112 Hamilton Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. RON SMITH is working in the Advertising department of duPont Company and specializes in getting the word **Dac­ron" in the public's eye. JOE NL\RGUET claims the honor of the first set of twins in the Class of '54 with tlie birth of Susan Jo and Sally Anne last October. Joe is in the army at present, liring at 216 E. 11th Street, New Albany, Ind. 
JOHN BUNDSCHUH, JR., is enrolled at the Wharton Graduate School of the University of Penn­sylvania working towards a master's degree in the field of Finance. He expects to finish up in August, but until then he can be found at the Marlyn Hotel, 40th and Walnut Sts., Philadelphia, Pa. John reports that: JACK LIMBERT is in the same school w*orking on a master's in Accounting; GEORGE WELSH is in Law School at Penn.; Second Lt. JOHN ENGELH.VRDT, USMC, is at Fort Knox studying the use of tank warfare; PETE REG.AN is in the monng business in Montclair, New Jersey. 
R/VY LAVERTY reports the Orient a far cry from life under the Golden Dome and I eclio his appraisal. Ray is at the Camp Drake Replacement Depot on the outskirts of Tokyo. He is doing finance and personnel work, likes it and the eight to five hours he claims. TONY GARRUTO is stationed aboard a na\'>' transport operating under 
KENTUCKY —Medal presented, by ND Alumni Club of Kentucky, to winner of essay contest for seniors of Catholic high schools in LouisviUc. Joe Donaldson is chairman of the cIuVs contest committee. 
the Militar>' Sea Transport Ser^'ice. His schedule calls for monthly runs to England and Germany and then five days at Staten Island, only thirty-five minutes from home. He says that he might lose that position in the near future and be forced to accept orders to the real navy for a change. 
CI..\IR SOUTHGATE is now in officer's training for the Navy in Rhode Island. 
That exhausts my supply of facts and figures on fifty-fours. Keep the letters and cards coming and I'll pass the ^vord on through the magazine. If any of >-ou are in the San Diego area after the eighteenth of April, you'll find an eager participant for a few cool ones li\ing aboard this navigational hazard out at buoys 53 and 54. 
NEW YORK CITY—Guest table at the club's dimier prior to the ND-NYU basketball game included: {photo on left) Larry **Moon" Mullins at the mike with Herb Jones, Ed Krause, Jim Clyncs, Jack Lavelle and Father Joyce in background; (photo on right) Mullins, Jones, Mr. and Mrs. Gilloon, Lavelle, Clynes and Father Joyce. 
.' ¥ 
--'V' •
i*V 
Noire Dame Alumnus, May-June, 19S5 

The Alumni Association 


University of Notre Dame 
Fellow Alumni: May 1, 1955 
My first thought is to express my gratitude to you for entrusting to me the important position of Presi­dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. A local nun told me, "You are President of the finest body of men in the world." What a compliment to the alumni of Notre Dame! 
You must be thanked, too, for electing to the Alumni Board each year such fine representatives of the Universit)'. These men are assigned to committees in which they have special interest and ability because of their background and experience. And, in ever)' instance, each of them has ser\'ed conscientiously the in­terests of the Alumni Association. You have noted, no doubt, that the Alumni Board is broadening its sphere each year. The projects are sounder; however, this is due, only, to the strong foundation built by the pre­\ious members of the Association. 
During our intensive meetings four times yearly, our thoughts arc augmented by the good counsel of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Director of the Foundation, and his Assistant, Rev. Thomas O'Donnell, C.S.C., James E. Armstrong, our capable and tireless secretar)', John Cackley and the members of the Foundation, such as James Frick, John MacCauIey, Richard Bo\ves and Allan Powers. The final luncheon and meeting is presided over by our distinguished President of the University, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., who discusses the problems of the Universit)' thoroughly and frankly. 
The Association is expanding. In 1954 the new clubs organized were Ark-La-Te.x in Shreveport, Lou­isiana; Battle Creek, Flint, Jackson and Kalamazoo, Michigan; New Haven, Connecticut; Racine — Kenosha, AVisconsin; Rockford, Illinois; St. Petersburg and Tampa, Florida; and Wichita, Kansas. 
There are 146 clubs as of this date. The Alumni Board is well aware that the bulk of alumni have been graduated from Notre Dame since the thirties, hence, it is important, always, to have ample representation from that group, as well as geo­graphic representation. The Board, as the representative group of the Alumni Association, is keenly interested in the develop­ment of a sound program for each of the 146 clubs. Consequendy, the clubs will receive, within a short time, an outline of activities the Board advocates—including, for example, alumni-led local discussion groups and intensified club interest in the religious and civic affairs of its community. Many members of the Asso­ciation are already members of such bodies as the Chamber of Commerce, the Communit)' Chest, etc. We believe that contributions to ciwc and religious affairs by our alumni add to prestige of the individual and enhance the stature of the University in his community. The Universit)' looks forward each year to the class reunions. This year they occur June 10, 11 and 12. It is to be hoped that each class will be well represented. June 1955 will mark the third year of our distinguished President's first tenure in office. The Associa­tion thinks Father Hesburgh has done a fine job. It is weU understood that one man alone cannot accom­plish the remarkable projects that have been completed during his three years, nevertheless, we know that all projects must have an extraordinar)' spearhead, otherwise the program disintegrates. We congratulate our President for a job well done. 
LEO D . O'DONNELL, M.D., President. 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 





