The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
-— rii ^irTT-TTTgr'^^'"'^'*'" ••"•••*-'^Ji*»»im»ff^*—««• 
NOTBE DAME 
DECEMBEt 1970 
mm^^m  .^^  
^•.•-•-•-•>A  
•• • • • •  
BOWL  BOUND  ri  

,riM»fA.?^r^'«af.!?^^^'?:^. -" -S.''-:-•" " P- A-•> ^" 
^T'.-,
:s&s (i?2fc til® 
There's another national election 
coming up soon that all ND 
ahimni should be concerned about. 
It's the election of five new mem­
bers to the ND Alumni Associa­
tion Board of Directors. 
You will soon receive your bal­lots in the mail and they will give you the backgrounds of the 10 men who are seeking the five openings. But this year we are of­fering you more than the usual impressive list of business, com­munity and church involvement by the candidates. These men have stated their thoughts and ideas as to the role of the Alumni Associa­tion. Hopefully, it will give the voter a better idea about how the candidate thinks. 
Why even bother to vote, some might ask. Chances are that those who are elected will do as good a job as those who are not. And those graduated since I960—who represetit 40 per cent of the ND graduates to date—will not even have a candidate on the ballot. Why bother? 
Being a director is not an honorific position, with special visitation rights to the University. Today's directors must probe deeply into the affairs of the Uni­versity. They are your link with what's happening at ND today. And they are expected to come up with concrete and useful sugges­tions for the welfare of both the 
W([ptm 
University and the Alumni As­
sociation. 
This means a lot of homework 
on the part of your representatives. 
And at the next meeting they will 
hopefully come up with a solution 
to the problem of representation 
of younger alumni on the Board 
of Directors. 
A vote by you will at least show the men who have accepted nom­ination to the board that the 46,000 of you out there are at least interested in the effort they are prepared to make. If the Uni­versity is willing to take the Board of Directors seriously, then you its constituency must also be willing to recognize the useful contribu­tion they are making to Notre Dame. 
Don O'Brien, Association presi­dent, reviews some of the contri­butions the Board has made during the last year on page 5. A well done to Don, as modest a Texan as you'll find anywhere. It was an exciting year at ND. Another one is coming up and you can meet the new leader. President-elect Bob Erkins, on page 4. I'm not sure which bowl he'll guide us to next year. Is there a Trout Bowl? 
^4i 

FEATURES  
61112131416  NEW LIFE IN OLD DORMS  BOWL BOUND  CARR: ND'S BETTER IDEA  SKATING FOR LEFTY  OPEN SPEAKER — OPEN STUDENTS  SUMMER MONKS  
DEPARTMENTS  
3421  ND NEWS  ALUMNI SPEAK  CLASS NEWS 47  GRADUATE SCHOOLSCLUB NEWSON RECORDALUMNI ASK   39  42  46  

Vol. 48 No. 7 
December, 1970 
Jama D. Cooney '59 ExECUTi\x SECRETARY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Editor 
Timothy J. Hughes '61 MANAGING EDITOR 
George A. Scheuer '28 CHIEF COPY EDITOR 
Bill Mitchell '71 EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
M. Bruce HarUn '49 CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 HONORARY PRESIDENT 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 PRESIDENT 
Walter M. Langford '30 VICE-PRESIDENT 
W. Jerome Kane '38 VICE-PRESIDENT 
Francis J. Wilson '28 VICETPRESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38 (CLUB ACTIVITIES) P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 
Walter M. Langford '30 (CLASS Ac.ivrriEs) I3IS Otsego SL , South Bend, Ind. 46617 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 (EXECUTIVE AND NOMINATIONS) 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 (SENATE ACHVITIES) 426 Dover Ave., LaGiange Park, III. 60525 
Francis J. Wilson '28 (PuBuc RELATIONS A.ND DEVELOPMENT) 6105 Howe St., Pitts­burgh, Pa. 15206 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '45 (PLACEMENT, ADMIS­SIONS) P.O. Box 546, Buhl. Idaho 83316 
John T. Massman '56 (FACULTY RELATIONS) 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, AIo. 64111 
Frank L. McGinn '52 (ACADEMIC AFFAIRS, REUCION & CmzENsHip) 900 BIdg.. Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 
Robert L. McGoldrick '56 (CONTINUING EDUCATION, STUDENT AFFAIRS) 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 
Leonard H. Tose '37 (ATHLETIC) 64 W. 4th St., Bridgeport, Pa. 19405 
DIRECTORS TO 1973 
Daniel D.' Canale '42, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tenn. 38103 
Dr. John C. Lungren '38. 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90807 
James C. MacDevitt '33. 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 
Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul. Minn. 55102 
John R. Panelli '49, 17549 Kirkshirc, Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 
1970 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. ReproHduc­tion in whole or in part without written permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May. August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Sccond-dass posuge paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

>Tr 

MHvmz.,^; 
December 1970 
'•j 

Kill! 
Commnnteatlon arts 
to merge frith 
American studies 
The communication arts department, headed the last 23 years by Prof. Thomas J. Stritch, will be merged over the next two years into the American studies program. Dr. Ron­ald Weber, former associate professor in the CA department, has been named director of American studies and CA chairman. 
Stritch will continue to teach at the University and to direct the graduate program in communication arts in the summer session. 
There will be no effect on present junior and senior majors who will continue under the communication arts curriculum. But when the pres­ent students have completed their work the University will offer only courses and an undergraduate degree in American studies. 
In describing the new program, Weber said, "Courses dealing with the American experience have always 
s 
^'i ^..'__ -^­
•y^^' 

been a part of the communication arts curriculum. They served as a useful background for students preparing for work-in the mass media. New courses in American studies are now being de­veloped and, beginning this fall, a major sequence offered in the field. Students will still find the program useful in preparing for a career in the mass media." 
Weber emphasized that the graduate program in communication arts re­mains unchanged and that the move­ment into work in American studies would have no effect on present com­munication arts students. 
Weber has been a member of the communication arts faculty since 1963. After being graduated from the department in 1957, he worked as a journalist before receiving his 
M.F.A. degree in English at the Uni­versity of Iowa and his Ph.D. in American studies at the University of Minnesota. In 1968-69 he was a Ful­bright lecturer in American studies in Portugal. 
Stritch received his M.A. in English at Notre Dame in 1935. After work­ing as a journalist, and after serving as a Naval officer in World War II, he became head of the department of journalism at Notre Dame in 1947. That department later became the de­partment of communication arts. 
Stadeats daaate football tickets 
With student tickets donated by ND­SMC undergraduates, more than 500 South Bend areagraite-schoolchildien were able to attend the ND-Georgia Tech football game. Invitations had been sent to 700 youngsters, many of whom the ND and St. Mary's students tutor in the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
Eric Andrus, a junior from Sacra­mento, Calif., served as co-ordinator of the project in which students were urged to turn in tickets for the children. 
ND and St. Mary's volunteer escorts met the children in the middle of the morning and stayed with them throughout the day. The escorts re­
imM m 
ND students and guests from the South Bend area cheer the Irish to a 10-7 victory over Georgia Tech. 

ND News 
ported they found the experience 
rewarding and "definitely worth the 
effort." 
Daniel L. Kuruzar, a sophomore 
whose home is in South Bend, said, "I 
spent most of the first quarter showing 
my boy the inside of the stadium. He 
really enjoyed the food stands." 
Many were kept busy explaining 
the penalties and informing the 
youngsters who the players were. 
For Mary Hansen, a St Mary's 
sophomore from Milwaukee, that 
presented a problem. 
"I just know the basic rules—what 
a first down and touchdown are—^so 
I just kept telling them Notre Dame 
was doing fine." 
Neur jndicial code 




approved at IVD 
ND has adopted a new judicial code 
de^'cribed by its president, the Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., as "a 
bold step in the direction of student 
responsibility." 
The code provides that a student accused of a violation of University rules may elect to have his case heard by an all-student panel of five with a non-voting faculty chairman. This panel is appointed for each sitting by the dean of students from among 12 students and three faculty chairmen who comprise the University Board. A lawyer and a psychologist serve as permanent advisors to the Board. 
Students can appeal decisions of hearing panels to either the dean of students or to an appeals board com­posed of one student, one faculty member and one administrator, all appointed by the University's Student Life Council. Under certain circum­stances, the dean, on behalf of the administration, can also appeal a panel's decision. A final appeal is available for students to the president of the University. 
The code also sets up a judicial system in residence halls to handle minor offenses and an appeals body to hear cases arising from traffic violations. 
Sm reeeives 


9470,89» ia grants 
ND has accepted $470,899 in awards for the month of October to support research and educational programs, according to Dr. Frederick D. Ros­sini, vice president of research and sponsored programs. Included among those receiving awards were: 
Dr. Howard J. Saz, professor of biology, received $72,094 from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) 

to continue his study on "Intermedi­
ary Metabolism of Helminths." Saz 
is looking for biochemical reactions in 
the parasitic worms which are more 
important to the parasite than its host 
Such reactions can then be inhibited 
to destroy the worm with minimal 
effects on the human or animal hous­
ing it 
The turbulence which bounces 

planes, retards the motion of ships 
and influences weather patterns is un­
der study by Dr. Robert Betchov, 
professor of aerospace and mechanical 
engineering. Under a grant of $30,600 
from the National Science Foundation 
(NSF), Betchov is pursuing basic re­
search on the little-understood phe­
nomenon in a study titled "Experi­
ments on Strong Turbulence." 
Two ND profs help 

prepare eonstitatioa 
Two recognized authorities on the American Constitution at ND, Dean William B. Lawless and Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, have accepted invita­tions from the U.S. State Department to assist the Philippines government in the preparation of a new constitution. 
Lawless, dean of the Notre Dame Law School, and Bartholomew, pro­fessor of government at the Univer­sity since 1931, are among five Amer­icans who joined a similar number of Filipino authorities for a series of dis­cussions on the advantages and disad­vantages of their respective constitu­tions in Manila Dec. 7-11. The par­ticipants attended a pre-conference meeting Dec. 4-6. 
The State Department in co-opera­tion with the Philippine-American Seminar, supported by a Fulbright-Hays grant 
Bartholomew, a consultant to the Department of the Navy, U.S. House of Representatives, State of Indiana and City of Chicago, is the author of numerous books and articles, includ­ing Checks and Balances and Consti­tution in the 1968 edition of Encyclo­pedia Americana. His annual analysis of the work of the Supreme Court appears in the Western Political Quar­terly. 
I.awless, a justice of the New York Supreme Court before assuming his present post at Notre Dame on July I, 1968, served as secretary of the judici­ary committee for the 1967 New York State Constitutional Convention. He is co-author of a two-volume work. New York Pattern Jury Charges, and has contributed a number of articles to professional publications. 
RolHsrt Erkins '47 

alaaini president 
Robert A. Erkins '45, B.S.Com. '47, has been elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association for 1971. Erkins, who is president of the Snake River Trout Co., Buhl, Idaho, has been serving as an associ­ation director assigned to placement and admissions. He will take office Jan. 1. 
Graduating with degrees of bach­elor of science in naval science and tactics and bachelor of science in busi­ness administration, Erkins served as an ensign in the Pacific area in World War II and also in Japan and North China after the war. 
Later he was employed in various hotels in Florida, Ohio, Wyoming and California in food service, accounting, promotions and general management 
He was married to Miss Bemadiine Morris of Elizabeth, NJ., m 1949. They have ten children, three boys and seven girls. 
Bob and his wife, who has a degree in zoology, took over the operation of the Snake River Trout Co., in 1952. They now operate four trout farms across southern Idaho, one processing plant and one feed manu­facturing plant Their firm is the largest producer-packer of Rainbow trout in the world. 
The new alumni president has been active in many organizations such as Rotary Club, Chamber of Commerce and Red Cross. He is on the advisory board for the Small Business Admin­istration for Idaho, a member at large of the National Council of the Boy Scouts of America and was instru­mental in founding the U.S. Trout Farmers Association. 
The president-elect asserted that he hoped the association could continue to become involved in the problems of the University in all facets of its operation. 
"We would hope that the associa­tion could go on," he said, "as a guide to the University in the role of a friendly critic." 

The year that was 
by Donald F. O'Brien, President, Alumni Association 
For the Notre Dame family, 1970 will go down in the annals as a re­markable year. It could be unique in being sandwiched between two excit­ing Cotton Bowl contests. It marked the first major changes in University administration in nearly two decades. And, among scores of other achieve­ments, it has been a year in which the alumni presence has received new recognition in University affairs — although this fact need not be re­corded elsewhere. 
This year the 15 directors of your Association — your elected represen­tatives — have listened to you atten­tively, and have worked hard to ex­press your collective voice in the Uni­versity community. Your voice is being heard in a helpful and construc­tive way for Notre Dame. Concur­rently, your directors have attempted to increase your understanding of the University today—its successes, prob­lems, needs, and future. 
Your board of directors has oper­ated on the premise that the alumni and the University have a unique dependence upon each other, since what the University is reflects upon each alumnus, and what each alumnus is reflects upon the University. 
Here is a capsule report of 1970 Alumni Board activities and concen­trations under dedicated committee chairmen and their assistants: 
Alumni Senate. Honorary President Len Skoglund '38 planned and led an outstanding fourth annual spring session of the Senate on the campus. May 7-9. More than 100 senators and directors from across the nation lived in the residence halls and learned directly of student interests and con­cerns at that critical period for Amer­ican universities. In lively dialogue, the senators gained new respect for today's students, and at the same time articulated mature alumni viewpoints. 
Club. Vice President Jerry Kane '38 focused attention, particularly at the Senate meetings, on the need and means of revitalizing alumni clubs as local centers of interest for students as well as alumni and their families. 
Class. Vice President Walter Lang­ford '30 urged the continuance of strong class ties. The annual class reunion in June was revitalized in format, and All-Class Reunions were inaugurated in the Athletic and Con­vocation Center immediately following home football games. 
Public Relations and Development. 
Vice President Fritz Wilson '28 re­ported the achievement of an all-time high in the size of alumni gifts to the Summa program, and indicated a trend toward record-breaking partici­pation. 
Academic. Chairman Frank Mc­Ginn '52 reported enthusiastically on the appointment by the trustees of a University provost, the reorganization of the Academic Council, and new curriculum developments. 
Admissions. Chairman Bob Erkins '47 and assistant Dr. Jack Lungren '38 encouraged the implementation of nearly 100 alumni schools committees by local clubs, and reported a new high in the University's acceptance rate for sons of alumni. 
Athletic. Chairman Leonard Tose '37 maintained liaison with the Uni­versity's athletic leadership, and re­ported favorable disposition toward a continuation open policy on post­season football, which had been re­instated last year. Also, the policy on alumni ticket quota for home football games was liberalized. 
Continuing Education. Chairman 
Bob McGoldrick '56 and assistant Dan Canale '42 studied opportunities and problems involved in providing continuing education to alunmi, and sought opinions and suggestions of club presidents and senators, in order to step up University efforts in this 
important area. 
Faculty Relations. Chairman John Massman '56 reported most favor­ably on the volunteer rote of many members of the faulty in developing a greater rapport with students, par­ticularly during the difficult days in May. 
Placement. Chairman Bob Erkins '47 and assistant Jim MacDevitt '35 pursued the expansion of alumni placement services, along with new policies and services for undergrads. 
Religion ami Citizenship. Chairman Frank McGinn and assistant Joe O'Neill '53 urged implementation of a pastoral campus ministry, and re­emphasized alumni support for ROTC programs at the University. 
Student Affairs. Chairman Bob McGoldrick and assistant John PaneUi '49 recommended strengthening of the roles of hall rectors and assistants, in­creased attention to the adjustment needs of minority students, and the development of closer association be­tween alumni and students, both on the campus and in local alumni clubs. 
The work of the board and the op­eration of the Alumni Association could not have been accomplished effectively without the tireless and dedicated efforts of Executive Sec­retary Jim Cooney '59 and Assistant Secretary Mike Jordan '68. These men are providing an unbelieveable variety and depth of services to the entire alumni body. Alumni corn-year by Managing Editors Tim Hughes '61 and (until recently) Tom Sullivan '66. 
In 1971, the tempo of alumni in­volvement will continue to accelerate under the leadership of President Bob Erkins. Be sure to vote for new alumni directors to be elected for terms commencing in 1971—and let the director and the senator from your area hear bom you. 
See you all at the Cotton Bowl! 


New life in old dorms 
In September of 1950, a group of journalism majors got together with members of the Blue Circle and published an mtroduction to ND hall life for the Class of 1954: Treshmen are free until 10 p.m. every night. You can do as you like but you must be in your room by that hour. You are granted one midnight a week. That sounds tough, but you'll soon find it nearly impossible to take any more than that one midnight, because of studies. At 11 p.m. sharp all room lights in the hall will be turned oif. You are then expected to get to bed. . . . Three mornings a week, exclusive of Sundays, you are to re­port to a checker at the door of the hall chapel. As long as you are up you should attend one of the several Masses that are said daUy in your chapel." Hall life in 1950 seemed to be viewed as a burden to be borne cheerfuUy, accepted with a 
By Bill Mitchell '71 
^^^^^^^SS^^J 
•:Kf^s^^^mm*i'^ism^m^s^ms^^^m^?sm^mm&i 
m 
-•^. 
•-»> '^•'•^„V5f 


mmm^^i^^ 
:*:^'*a 

^^?W;^-^C:^'';4.-iH,;, •*? ^ 
-?s^B^ia^ai^i^aa^^^^iii^^^i^^i^^^^:'g^§^gfe>ig^s^s^ ^^^^^^^mmmm^ 
'Hall life in 1960 was coming to be viewed as a conflict of rights: the rights of the student to run his own private life pitted against the rights of the University to set 'reasonable limits.' " 
kind of sacrificial spirit bolstered by the mystique that was then so highly touted: the privilege of calling one's self "a Notre Dame man." 
By May of 1960, the mystique had done some evolving; its roots and im­plications were being reassessed. "As has been pointed out by Cardinal Newman and many others," a Schol­astic editorial writer wrote in that year's final issue, "the idea of a uni­versity is to educate by 'teaching universal knowledge to its students.' It is the student's task to educate him­self, with the help and guidance of the university." 
An emphasis of responsibility was shifting, and some students were hint­ing—ever so cautiously—at the kinds of statements and decisions which most students would be making five years later, which Notre Dame ad­ministrators would be agreeing to five years after that. 
The editorial writer echoed New­man's contention that, "knowledge . . . exerts a subtle influence in throw­ing us back on ourselves, and making us our own center, and our minds the measure of all things." Which led the Scholastic to these sorts of con­clusions: 
"If the educated man is to measure all things, the training for such judge­ments must be had at the university, and it must be of such a nature that it encourages the student not only to think, but to act for himself. It can­not be imposed from without. . . . Certainly the process of daily living, for example, of rising in the morning and retiring at night, is the direct in­terest of the student and should re­main within his realm of decision. 
"Any failure on the part of the school to follow this pattern of gov­erning the conduct of its students (al­lowing them to act freely, within reasonable limits, in the conduct of their own affairs), while at the same time recognizing and supposedly fos­tering the ideals of a liberal education is completely hypocritical." 
Hall life in 1960 was coming to be viewed as a conflict of rights: the rights of the student to run his own private life pitted against the rights of the University to set "reasonable limits." It was this sort of debate that focused much of the discussion re­garding haU life in the sixties—inter­
rupted occasionally with concern for 
what is now at the heart of the hall 
life issue at ND: the development of 
community. 
In the fall of 1964, John Chesire '66 introduced a new style of living for residence halls at ND: the section system. The huge numbers of students living in each hall would be divided into groups of 25 or so, for the sake of trying to live together well. Chesire began his experiment in Walsh Hall. In the 1967 edition of The Dome, Walsh rector Father Daniel O'Neill had this to say: "The halls used to be nothing but flop houses. But now, un­der the section system, there is a great hope that they are becoming active communities." 
A year later, stay hall, the second major attempt at building structures more compatible with community, was introduced. Fariey Hall introduced it that first year, Dillon Hall instituted it the second year, and now, five years later, every hall at ND is a stay hall. The freshman quad is no longer that, with more and more students electing to remain in what were formerly freshman halls for their four years— and more and more freshmen being assigned to such halls as Sorin and Walsh. 
Lingering near the surface of these structural innovations was the issue at the center of an emerging Student Power movement at ND: student rights. That movement seemed to find its peak on February 7 and 8, 1968— the dates of the general assembly of students. About a thousand students attended the session in Stepan Center, and a majority of them voted to ac­cept a resolution insisting that, "stu­dent self-government means that if students must obey the rules, they should make them." Richard Rossie '69 the bill's author and soon-to-be­elected student body president, said he was seeking to build "a conmiunity where paternalism is replaced by fel­lowship in the company of scholars." 
Rossie's bill defeated a more mod­erate proposal which contended "the ultimate responsibility for the overall character and direction of this Uni­versity lies in the administration and the board of trustees." 
In the almost three years since that student assembly, student ri^ts have become increasingly less of an issue at 
ND. It is a development that appears 
due partly to the administration's 
eventual recognition of those rights. 
Being a Notre Dame man in 1970 in­
volves comparatively few of the kinds 
of sacrifices put up with by students 
20 years ago. Recent physical reno­
vations have combined with rule 
changes to make the halls quite dif­
ferent from the old dorms under the 
rector's thumb. 
Now, the lights in a student's room may bum all night, or, if he chooses, the room may remain empty all night. Curfew regulations are the same for freshmen as they are for seniors: there are none. Drinking alcoholic beverages is still not permitted in pub­lic areas of the campus, but students are permitted to drink in their rooms. The Student Manual reminds them "of their obligation to comply" with the Indiana State Law against under­age drinking. The Student Manual prohibits the use of both "hard" drugs and marijuana. 
Students are permitted to have women visitors in their rooms accord­ing to hours and procedures estab­lished by each Hall Council, under the supervision of the Hall Life Board. The Student Life Council has restricted the hours such that they do not extend beyond 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday, and 11 p.m. on other nights. 
With the decrease in concern for student rights has arrived an increase in concern for non-university issues. For many students, serious discus­sions and decisions regarding their own relationship to the United States government and its foreign and do­mestic policies has rendered the rhet­oric about "the right to decide the particulars of my daily life" compara­tively unimportant 
The present situation of hall life at Notre Dame may have been sketched along these lines: just when admin­istrators gave in to student demands to run their own lives, the students become interested in something else: their own relationship to greater so­ciety. 
An outgrowth of the situation has been a rather anomalous individual­ism on the part of many students, adopting the hall social ethic of "whatever I do is OK as long as it doesn't get in anybody else's way." 

*With the hall structures now more flexible and open, people can pretty much make halls what they want. If community is going to exist, people must give of themselves . . ." 
In the face of this, many students and administrators are struggling to realize the substantive goals of Che-sire and Rossie and the other early reformers of hall life. Amid the pres­ent transitional confusion, there seem to be almost as many successes as failures. Father Thomas Chambers CSC, the recently appointed director of campus residence, is working with an expanded prefect system to trans­form the role of hall administrators from policemen to pastors. 
In the Nov. 20. 1970 issue of the Scholastic, junior Joe Hotz, a three-year resident of Farley, included fol­lowing observations in an article he did on the state of hall life: 
"Halls seem to have achieved, to a very great extent, a su£5cient and au­tonomous structure. A great many gains have been made in the last few years in the areas of hall autonomy. Greater freedom has been made pos­sible by such changes as parietal hours, more equitable judiciary pro­cedures and, in general, less stringent and encompassing rules and regula­tion. So much has been done in fact that Father Ernest Bartell CSC notes, *we no longer have the articulated concern or causes for hall issues be­cause so much has been accom­plished. Halls have achieved so much structurally and organizationally that there is no longer the presence of a real rallying point around which everyone can unite.' According to Father Chambers, 'There now exists a much better process of cooperation between the hall staffs and the hall governments such that the halls can now offer so many more opportuni­ties to students.' 
"Finally, a deficiency which really must be present in any successful hall community is a sense of humanness. Less intense and frequent, but still very much present are the blaring parties which disturb the guy next door or the grossing out' (embarass­ing) of some girl who comes to visit during the now-extended privilege of parietal visitation. The sad part about these two examples and the ones like it are that the people involved in these 'injustices' seldom realize that their 'victim' is another human being. 
"Things still need to be done. But the things to be done are very human and individual changes. With the hall structures now more flexible and open, people can pretty much make halls what they want If community is going to exist, people must give of themselves in a very individual way to those about them. This process of giving is painful, but if Notre Dame life is to be more than just four yean of work for a paper diploma, people must develop a community, sensitized and human." 
The preamble to the new campus judicial code, which has been recently adopted by the Student Life Council (established by Father Hesburgh and made up of representatives from the administration, faculty and student body) reflects the problems and goals of living in a hall at ND. It rates quoting at length: 
"If scholars are to dwell together in peace, they will have to live under law; yet no law can produce peace. The frustration of all law is to face problems it cannot fully resolve. Law at a university is no exception. Notre Dame's disciplinary rules and pro­cedures may perhaps best be under­stood by their contrasts with the law of the state. 
"Unlike the state, the private uni­versity is a voluntary society. The most severe punishment available to the voluntary society is expulsion, whereas the state which can neither select nor deport its native-bom citi­zens, must resort to coercive and punitive sanctions. Thus the ultimate motive for compliance with law varies in the two societies. In the state, peo­ple comply with law both to maintain order and to avoid punishment; in the university, people comply with law both to maintain the university itself and to remain a member of it. The very scope of law, then, must differ. In the civil society, law touches on private behavior only insofar as it affects the public order. Within the university, mles reach further, not simply prohibiting students from tak­ing advantage of others, but describ­ing, at least negatively, the life style that makes the university what it is. 
"In a voluntary society, membera possess a bond of loyalty and commit­ment that cannot be taken for granted within the civil society. A student would challenge an offensive student more conscientiously, one hopes, than the average citizen would challenge a 
criminal. Another expectatkm in a so­ciety where men meet as comrades rather than as strangera is that ofteai­era will be dealt with patiently and pentMially, more to assist and correct than to punish. 
"AnoUier distinctive feature of the univeisity oooununity is its composi­tion: largely students, with fewer seniOT men and women, and no chil­dren. The pattem of likely misbe­havior win be cwreaiwndin^ dis­tinctive. A coSkge campus soffiers little violent crime, but more reck­less mistreatment of property and thoughtless abuse of one's fellows, more cheating and stealing and boor­ishness. In a university, concern Utr the social order and for personal growth are functions of educatim. Students—as the majority component —must assume le^onsibility for set­ting rules and seeing that they are ob­served, as they stand ready for more public leqmnsibilities beyimd the campus. Faculty and administrators, whose commitment to the school is more enduring, and who are charged with fosteiing the character of the campus community and selecting its members, must share responsibility in this task of social learning. 
"A particular difference between a voluntary society like Notre Dame and the state is the ambition of this University to be a place where men will become humane, become Chris­tion. Notre Dame itself must repre­sent the paradox of faith, which im­poses more stringent demands on one's behavior and social constiuc­tiveness, yet extends more compassion to those who fail. 
"The law of the campus, therefore, should not c( ^ the law of the land. The University rules set few limits (m student behavior precisely because there are more positive reasons for most students to do that themselves. Yet the rules can and do go beyond what is simply required for public order, and so will offiend a selfish in­dividualism which causes men to ig­nore all but what touches back on themselves." 
The judicial code thus moves be­yond the self-centered student ri^ts view of the University community suggested in that 1960 Scholastic edi­torial. It moves toward providing the guidelines necessary to create the sort 
I 

J^}-i. 
f^-v. 
of place where lasting values might be discovered, and lived. As is indicated by its concluding paragraph, it looks beyond itself and beyond any law for the real inspiration of communities at ND: . . . "when offenses are alleged or remedied, grounds of comradeship allow for an informality and flexi­bility of procedure. Due process in a university .-is not the same as due process in the civil courts, where more elaborate precautions are re­quired to protect the accused from abuse. The University does not have, nor should it hanker after a preten­tious judicial process in the civil style. "What both state and university 
-^. .-5S^-1&SL^ 

should share is a belief m the inade­quacy of law, which can neither moti­vate considerate behavior nor Lreate community. Comradeship cannot he legislated, nor can disciplinar\ judg­ment remedy the causes of offense. Any society must look elsewhere than to law for its sources of life and co­hesion. With the Rules that follow. the university describes minimally what behavior cannot be tolerated; h\ these disciplinary procedures it admits unhappily that some of its members will occasionally do what is intoler­able. And for that, something more than laws and courts must be the rem­edy. So much more is needed if schol­
I'tiaim 

ars are to dwell together in love." 
The transition apparent in the evo­lution of hall life from the burden of obedience to the demand for rights to the present search for community has not been particularly smooth. But then good societies rarely develop smoothly. 
Not surprisingly, the present search involves more risks, more embarrass­ments and more failures. 
There remains the possibility, though, that the people who take it up will discover—with their lives and not just their texts—how difficult and beautiful it is to live together well, in peace. 




Bowt bound 
After the first nine games of the 1969 season, it was apparent that Notre Dame was not going to wait another 44 years to attend a bowl game. 
So it's back to cotton country again. 
This time Dallas Club members are ready and waiting. The task thrust upon them last year was monu­mental, considering the short time there was to prepare. This year there was time to plan ahead. 
Three weeks before the announce­ment was made, the Club began to arrange for the various activities that will take place over the weekend. The headquarters will be at the Statler-Hilton Hotel, where a hospitality and information suite has been set up. 
"We hope that people will check in here when they arrive in town," said John Ronan, president of the' club. "They will be able to locate friends and classmates as well has ob­tained a schedule of events planned by the club." A buffet and refresh­ments will be served at the suite. 
Events scheduled will be a New Year's Eve party, such as the one held last year. It will be held at the Dallas Memorial Auditorium, 717 S. Akard in Downtown Dallas. 
A special function will be held either before or after the game, at the Texas Fairgrounds, the location of the Cotton Bowl. Information on this function will be available at the Hos­pitality Suite. 
The Dallas Club has mobilized 150 of its members to help out with the various activities planned. 
The Dallas Club is not the only one who benefited by last year's Cotton Bowl experience. The ND ticket office did too, and ticket handling has been revised. 
Last year S90,000 in ticket applica­tions were returned to hopeful bowl viewers—many more than were ex­pected by the office. 
"We found that we will have to treat a post season game as a special event," said Don Bouffard, ND ticket manager. "Many more alumni from all parts of the country wanted to at­tend the game than was anticipated." 
Last year, ND alumni clubs and alumni in the immediate vicinity of the game were given special consider­ation. Each contributor was allowed four tickets. 
This year applications were sent to 
*• 

all alumni in the U.S. who contrib­Dec. 11 will be shuffled and assigned uted in 1969. Each contributor will a sequence number. If a lottery is have the chance to obtain a maxi­necessary, it will be held. ND will mum of two tickets. Applications receive 14,000 tickets this year, 500 were mailed by Dec. 5. Those re­more than last year, according to ceived back in the office on or before Bouffard. 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas presents 
THE OFFICIAL NOTRE DAME COTTON BOWL NEW YEAR'S EVE PARTY 
For Notre Dame alumni and their guests 
Date Thurs. Dec. 31, 1970 
Place Dallas Memorial Auditorium 717 S. Akard, Downtown Dallas 
Time 8:30 p.m. — 2 a.m. 
HIGHLIGHTS 

—
 The Euel Box Orchestra 


—
 Appearances by ND officials and guests 

—
 Hats, horns and party favors 

—
 Shuttle buses from major downtown hotels 

—
 Beer, set-ups and ice available 

—
 Because of Texas liquor laws, BRING YOUR OWN BOTTLE! 


Y'ALL COME! 

Carr: IVD^9 better idea 
"Austin Carr should be the outstand­ing collegiate basketball player in the nation next season." That was Adolph Rupp talking last March after his Kentucky Wildcats had eliminated Notre Dame from the NCAA tourna­ment despite a 52-poink show at Ohio State's St. John Arena. 
Notre Dame coach Johnny Dee 
agrees. And when Rupp and Dee 
agree on a subject that's big news. 
Their friendly disagreements over the 
merits of one another's schedules can 
be put aside when the subject is Carr 
— the 6-foot-3 senior guard who hopefully will lead to their fourth consecutive 20-victory season and a berth in the NCAA tourney for the third season in a row. 
Carr set 13 individual scoring rec­ords last season—including a single season total of 1,106 points and a single game high of 61 in an NCAA victory over Ohio University. Fans who are expected to jam Notre Dame's 11,345-seat arena this winter, and those who watch the Irish on the road, will most certainly see more records fall. 
In Carr's supporting cast will be Collis Jones, a 6-7 senior who aver­aged 18.6 last season and Sid Catlett, another 6-8 senior who scored at an 
8.6 pace while in the starting lineup part-time. Like Carr, Jones and Cat­lett are from Washington, D.C. 
Jackie Meehan, the 6-1 Philadel­phian is back to trigger the offense. Tom Sinnott, the 6-4 swingman from Elizabeth, N.J., with a 5.1 scoring average and Jim Hinga, a 6-4 handy­man from Muncie, Ind., also are back. Six-foot-eight John Pleick, tripped up by some scholastic short­comings after 16 games, returns in good academic standing. He was av­eraging nine points per game before departing, and his 6.7 rebounding mark was third behind Carr's 8.1 and Jones' 12.4. 
Meehan's ability as a playmaker oftentimes was overlooked in favor of impressive box score statistics by his teammates. Iowa coach Ralph Miller 
called him "the best I've seen at hit­
ting the open man," after the Hawk-
eyes won an NCAA consolation game 
from the Irish. 
Jones' rebounding ability brought 
praise from opposing coaches all sea­
son, and when he poped in 40 points 
in a 121-114 victory over Butler in 
addition to collecting 18 rebounds, 
the 15,000 fans who had jammed 
Hinkle Fieldhouse for veteran coach 
Tony Hinkle's farewell had seen a 
remarkable performance. 

Sinnott had a remarkable ability to come off the bench cold, and hit a quick basket or two, and had a tre­mendous game against Marquette — hitting two overtime baskets and pass­ing off to Carr for a tying layup in the final second of the first overtime. The Irish went on to win. 
All the aforementioned players are seniors. Big things are expected from the only junior member of the squad, 6-foot-3 Doug Gemmell. A super hustler, Gemmell had cracked the starting lineup before suffering a broken ankle in the final home game against West Virginia. Of course, he missed the NCAA tournament, but Dee believes he'll be able to regain that starting berth. 
Another super-tough schedule has .been lined up by Dee, who believes in playing the best competition avail­able. 
Last season one observer ranked Notre Dame's schedule as the second toughest in the nation — and it's no easier this time around. New names are Northwestern, Santa Clara, Air Force, Creighton and Western Michi­gan. These quintets replace Northern Illinois, Kansas, St. Peter's, Tulane and one of two games against West Virginia. 
As Dee tells it, "We play the fa­vorite in the Pacific Eight Confer­ence, UCLA; the favorite in the At­lantic Coast Conference, South Caro­lina; the Southeastern Conference favorite, Kentucky: the Big Ten choice, Illinois; and the No. 1 team 
in the Western Collegiate Conference, 
Santa Clara." 
"Eight of our opponents were in 
post-season tournaments last season— 
five in the NCAA and three in the 
NIT where two of them, Marquette 
and St. John's, met in the champion­
ship game. UCLA, Kentucky, Santa 
Clara, Dayton and Villanova were in 
the NCAA tourney. Duquesne was 
the other NIT entry." 
"Seven of our opponents won 20 
or more games last season, highlight­
ed by UCLA's 28-2 mark," continued 
Dee, who is beginning his seventh 
season at the Notre Dame helm. 
Last season's Notre Dame team set 
12 team records, including a season 
scoring mark of 2,711 points. The 

93.5 point per game average ranked fifth nationally, a truly outstanding mark that is even more prominent when you consider the Irish were no world-beaters at the free throw line. 
Aside from Carr, who connected on 83 per cent of his one-point chances, the Irish did not have a player above the 70 per cent mark. That's one area where Dee hopes to see some improvement this season. 
The club's .482 field goal accuracy rate, was headed by Carr's pace of better than 55 per cent. 
Highlight of the 13-game home schedule will be the appearance of Johnny Wooden and his national champion UCLA Bruins on Saturday afternoon, Jan. 23. Ralph Simpson, one of the nation's super sophs last season, will lead his Michigan State teammates into the ACC three days later. Indiana, solidified by the school's best freshman club in his­tory, will' pay a visit on Dec. 15. And there's a New Year's Eve party sched­uled against Santa Clara on Dec. 31. 
Notre Dame's fourth victory this season will be Dee's 100th since tak­ing over the Irish at the start of the 1964-65 campaign. By March, it's a generally standard belief that E>ee will be well on the way to 200. 
.-4 
*'.* ^^ 
-'«**<=IU. 
"**'^»«.­


Skating ior Lefty ^ 
Notre Dame hockey fans are in for a treat during the 1970-71 season when the Fighting Irish enter their third campaign under Coach Charles "Lefty" Smith. This time around the ND skaters will square off largely with Western Collegiate Hockey As­sociation competition. 
The Irish, bolstered by the return of 18 monogram winners and an ex­ceptional crop of freshmen-to-be, will play 20 games against WCHA teams. 
Coach Smith hopes to move this Notre Dame squad to the brink of NCAA championship contender status against the toughest foes out­side the ECAC. He'll have to accom­plish this while playing the bulk of the schedule on the road. Eighteen contests are slated on foreign ice with eleven dates listed for the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Notre Dame will tangle with every WCHA team except Minnesota this season. Included in that action are games with Michigan Tech and Wis­consin, both finalists in the 1970 NCAA Hockey Tournament. In addi­tion, those squads administering 6 of last year's 8 losses once again appear on the schedule. The Irish have also accepted an invitation to face Boston University, Northeastern and Provi­dence for the first time in the Boston Arena Christmas Tournament. 
Despite such a list of formidable opponents, Notre Dame stands a good chance of making this their third consecutive successful season. The Fighting Irish lost no seniors from last year's 21-8-1 team, and Smith hopes that a combination of 10 promising freshmen with the 19 re­turnees will yield a veritable power­house. 
The experience will come from co-captains Phil Wittliff (C, Pt. Huron, Mich.) and John Roselli (W, Duluth, Minn.), last year's most valuable player and leading scorer John Noble (C, Toronto, Ont.), center Paul Re­gan (Scarborough, Ont.), winger Kevin Hoene (Duluth, Minn.), and defenseman Bill Green (Roseville, Minn.). All except Roselli averaged better than a point per contest in scoring. 
A sophomore who last season cen­tered Notre Dame's first line. Noble was a part of 59 scoring plays to lead the team in point production. The 20-year-old St. Michael's Prep grad­uate scored 24 goals and assisted on 35 others (also tops on the team in that category). Thirty of his points came in key situations—^first, tying, go ahead or winning goals. 
Wittliff, a senior who captained the Irish last season, led the team in goals for the second straight year with 29, while matching his three hat trick performances of the previous cam­paign. He now holds 11 Notre Dame individual hockey records. 
A senior who played his prep hockey at Duluth Cathedral, Roselli picked up 26 scoring points and led the Irish forwards in key scoring per­centage. Fifteen points, or 57% of his total output, came in vital situa­tions. 
Returning are the top nine for­wards from an offense which last year outscored its opposition by 78 goals, 186-108. If Jim Cordes (Farm­ington, Minn.) can shake off the early injury jinx that has plagued him for two seasons and if Joe Bonk (S, St. Paul, Minn.) regains the form he demonstrated as a freshman, it may prove difficult for any newcomers to break through. However, freshman Eddie Bumbacco (W. Sault Ste. Marie, Ont.), Ian Williams (W. Tor­onto, Ont.) and Larry Israelson (W. Didsbury, Alberta) are expected to be equal to that challenge. 
As in the first two seasons, defense will have to be the area of greatest concentration for Smith and assistant coach Tim McNeill. 
Senior Paul O'Neil (South Boston, Mass.) survived a switch from his familiar right wing position to de­fense early last year solving what could have been a disastrous weak­
<t. 
**!•«, 

"^^*. ^^. 

ness. He was selected by his team­
mates and coaches as the most im^ 
proved player. 
Great improvement was also evi­dent in the play of junior defensemen Mark Longar (Eveleth, Minn.) and Jim Morin (St. Paul, Minn.) as last season progressed. Together with standouts Paul O'Neil (&-.), Bill Green (So.), considered the squad's best defenseman, and Mark Steinbom (So., Pt Huron, Mich.), these men furnish reason to be optimistic about goal prevention for the 1970-71 cam­paign. Moreover, Minnesota all­staters Ric Schajfer (Minne;y>olis) and Bill Nytop (Edina) are sure to . press the upperclassmen for starting defensive duties. 
Regular net minder Dick Tran­asoni (Chisholm, Minn.) returns with two years' varsity experience to his credit. The owner of every Notre Dame goal tending record but one, this stalwart junior lowered his goals-against average by one full point (4.5 to 3.5) from his first season of action. 
Chris Cathcart (So., Guelph, Ont.) proved to be an adequate replacement for Tomasoni whenever the starter needed to be spelled. In 10.6 games Cathcart racked up 265 saves and a .877 percentage. Added help at this position will c«xne from Mark Kron­holm (South St. Paul, Minn.), a three-time all-Minnesota selection. 
In final analysis, every regular and backup man from the highly success­ful 1969-70 squad will once again ap­pear in a Notre Dame imiform. Chances for improvement against the upgraded schedule depend <m how closely the newcomers come to ful­filling Notre Dame's needs for heavy-hitting defensemen and at least two wings of the super class. 
Based on their play as hi ^ schotd students. Smith thinks he has found the men that meet those require­ments. 
The Irish Icemen are coming. 
Check! 


The open speaker 

What do Donald Zagoria, Jane Fonda, 
Henry VanderStappen, Ti-Grace At­
kinson, Edward Gargon and William 
Kunstler have in common? 

Answer: AH were student-invited 
speakers at Notre Dame during 1970. 
Since most of you know all about Jane Fonda, Ti-Grace Atkinson and William Kunstler, let me explain that Zagoria discussed Sino-Soviet politics, VanderStappen Chinese art and Gar­gon "The Innocence of Albert Camus." 
All this is by way of introduction to a policy of the University which is periodically under attack from persons who have never understood it It's called the "open speakers policy," and it allows any segment of the Notre Dame community to invite whom they will to speak on whatever they wish. During the last academic year, there were 410 on-campus public lectures on a range of subjects which would boggle the mind of any one of us. They were sponsored by such diverse organi­zations as the conservative Orestes Brownson Society and the perennially liberal-leaning Student Union Aca­demic Commission (SUAC). 
The policy is based upon the simple thesis that if the university is to be a forum of ideas there has to be free commerce. Lately, there has also been a growing concern for more balance in campus offerings, especially those sponsored by SUAC. Students, just like the rest of us, show a propensity to invite persons who reflect their prejudices rather than those who chal­lenge their assumptions. But SUAC's search for conservatives, spurred by a recent attempt of the Student Senate to gain some leverage in speaker se­lection, is hampered by two realities: there are fewer conservatives who will speak on campus, and those who will (such as William F. Buckley and Al Capp) charge exceptionally high fees for what they doubtlessly consider "combat duty." 
The open speakers policy is one of those things which attracts attention only when it seems to "fail." Hun­dreds of talks are delivered without fanfare (and, one presumes, with some imparting of knowledge) each aca­demic year, but a handful bask in the searchlight of controversy and out­raged reaction. Many critics betray a 
lack of confidence in the maturity of students, who are supposed to be in­cited to arson by the rhetoric of resistance or to abandon the faith be­cause of the blasphemy of a women's liberationist. Others are fond of im­puting motives to speakers, and be­cause of Notre Dame's visibility on the national news media horizon, there is no doubt that some who come to its platforms seek personal publicity rather than dialogue. But there are far more speakers in the mcrid of for­mer bishop James P. Shannon, who spoke on the cause of constructive criticism, than there are in the cast of former priest James Kavanaugh, who announced his resignation from the active ministry in a surprise move and later tried to use the incident to promote sales of his book. 
The open speakers policy is going to cause periodic flaps, simply because no one can predict in advance the substance of an address or the man­ner of its delivery. There are going to be insightful addresses at Notre Dame and there are going to be taste­less ones. Determining the difference is part of the education of young adults.—DICK CONKLIN, DIRECTOR, IN­FORMATION SERVICES. 
"Dunng tm last academic year, I'nere were 410 on-campus lectures on a range of subjects which would boggle the mind . . ." 
"The open speakers policy is one of those things which attracts attention only when it seems to 'fail.' " 
"Many critics betray a lack of confidence in the maturity of students, who are supposed to be incited to arson by the rhetoric of resistance or to abandon the Faith because of the blasphemy of a women's liberationist:' 


open student 
What follows is a letter by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Univer­sity president, in reply to the editor of Our Sunday Visitor. The weekly newspaper leveled an editorial attack on ND's open speaker policy and stu­dent newspaper reporting of the ap­pearance on Campus of Ti-Grace Atkinson, women's liberation advo­cate. The student daily. The Observer, quoted explicitly and directly Miss Atkinson's obscene references to the Roman Catholic Church and blas­phemous remarks about Mary, the mother of Jesus. 
With all the enormous problems fac­ing our Church and our country to­day, problems which are of the deepest concern and study here at the University, I find it difficult to under­stand your over-reaction to a fairly isolated and relatively minor situation here. First, may I say a word about the situation, not by way of justifica­tion, but by way of simple explana­tion. 
Our students have a right to invite here speakers on a wide variety of subjects. So do our faculty members and so does the administration. The fact of an invitation in no way sug­gests that we agree with whatever might be said, because in every case we have no idea what will be said. It so happens that in a long list of speak­ers, representing every possible range of opinion on the widest range of sub­jects, one of our student Academic Commissioners invited a woman to speak on women's liberation, a subject of great interest to young people to­day. I am not trying to justify his choice of a speaker. I never heard of her before she was invited. But, women's liberation is certainly a suit­able topic for discussion in the uni­versity today. 
It so happened that this was a sorry choice. The reasons behind the invita­tion were valid enough; the book writ­ten by this woman was not particu­larly provocative, but she did take this occasion to proclaim such outrageous things that she completely lost her audience and, by her vulgar and blas­phemous language, convinced them that she is not a good representative of what is good in women's liberation. 
Our student press, which is not sub­ject to prior censorship, decided to 

'EVERY CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY IS AN EXERCISE IN FREEDOM.' 
play the story straight and to repeat some of the more outrageous things she said in an effort to portray just how bad a performance it was. Again, one can argue about the journalistic judgment involved here. There are those who find no fault in this treat­ment. Personally, I do, and so do many others here, and it is my opin­ion, after a discussion with the' Edi­tors, that if they had it to do all over again, the story would have been treated differently. I am not terribly concerned that student editors oc­casionally make mistakes. So do adult editors. We are in the education busi­ness and often young people learn more by mistakes and by suffering the aftermath of mistakes than they do by acting correctly. Christian education should be no less redemptive than Christian religion. 
What really bothers me is that there are a thousand wonderful Christian happenings at Notre Dame that will never be covered in the press. One gets the impression at times that some fellow Christians are like wolves who stand on the periphery of a large en­deavor and move in for the kill when­ever there is the slightest weakness or fault shown. 
We had over a hundred young men and women go down to Latin Amer­ica last Summer to work with the poor. Two of these young people spent their whole Summer in a very poor parish in Santiago, Chile, in a large slum area there. On their way home, they were killed in an airplane crash. I am sure this was not worth an editorial in Our Sunday Visitor, but if I have made myself clear in what has been said above, this incident you did write about is a peanut compared to a mountain of martyrdom. Yet, martyrdom is not sensational, it doesn't give the opportunity for an editor to be righteous and condemna­tory, and, while martyrdom is at the heart of Christianity, it is not really the substance of editorials in Christian papers today. 
The students you deplore are the same who volunteer in the hundreds to tutor South Bend's disadvantaged children, who visit prisons to conduct adult education programs for inmates, who defend the poor in Indiana and Michigan courtrooms, who raise 
money to support an impoverished reading school for otherwise forgotten ghetto youngsters, who supervise rec­reation for the handicapped, who staff the retarded children's hospital, and who perform countless acts of Christian service for the poor and abandoned. All these other actions are examples of the living martyrdom of service by the young and generous students of today. If an editorial must be written about Notre Dame stu­dents, why not signalize these actions of hundreds of students, not the un­wise action of one student who invites one wrong person among many right ones? 
Every Christian university is an exercise of freedom. In the nature of the endeavor, freedom will involve from time to time some horrible mis­takes. I am perfectly willing to admit that we make our share of horrible mistakes at Notre Dame, but, if they are educative and if they are not re­peated, then I think they become re­demptive and worthwhile. For ex­ample again, a new ad editor un­wittingly ran an ad on abortion from the educational advertising company which serves all college newspapers. Once the general editor saw it, there was a student staff meeting and the ad was cancelled—before there was any outside criticism—because they felt it was a mistake. They do learn, but, again, at the price of being free to learn by mistakes. It is not the mistakes that are important, but the learning. What I am asking for is some kind of understanding from the Christian community, not a readiness to stand on the periphery and con­
demn weakness whatever the strengths. 
Personally, I think that the Church today desperately needs Catholic uni­versities and I am sure that among them Notre Dame is by all odds one of the very best. I do not say this lightly because I have visited practi­cally every Catholic university in the whole world. To the extent that a Catholic university is good, it will be troublesome because it must take on the problems of our age, it must run the risk of young people making mis­takes, and it must be understanding of those who are willing to move into very difficult problems with the hope of finding a Christian solution and to 
manifest Christian concern. It is much more easy to sit back and applaud the easy things like turning out a great football team which will allow Catho­lics to brag to their non-Catholic neighbors. I, for one, am not a par­tisan of this kind of secular Christian­ity. 
I am not sure that all that I have said will convince anyone that they should have more understanding, deeper perception, or a more Christian approach to the problems of Catholic higher education in an age of enor­mous change and challenge. However, if I have to take a stand, I will take it here: with the young people who are dedicated, generous, idealistic, and who occasionally fall on their faces. I realize that taking such a stand may make me both unpopular and unwel­come with an older generation that would like to have everything black and white, perfectly orderly, and com­pletely fail-safe. Unpopularity with the establishment, clerical or lay, does not particularly bother me, because un­less one loves the young people of today, and unless one is willing to share with them even the possibility of making fairly bad mistakes from time to time, then one should not be in higher education, particularly in Christian higher education. It is easy to stand on the sidelines and carp. It is difficult to try to create in our age a 
great Catholic university with all the risks it necessarily involves. I think such a university is being created at Notre Dame in a way unique in all the world. If I did not believe this, I would not be here. I am willing to be here because I do believe in Notre Dame, in its past, present, and future, in its dedication to Our Lady as well. I am willing to take my stand with our Christian young people who do, in­deed, make enormous mistakes from time to time, but who make them in good faith and in the interest of trying to make Christianity relevant to an age of unbelievers, chauvinistic Cath­olics, and sometimes insensitive elders. The greatest challenge to the Church today is not to discipline and browbeat the young—it is to win young people for the Kingdom of God and His Justice and His Salvation and to do all this in freedom, by manifest­ing to them His Love. 
SIX NOTRE DAME STUDENTS EXPERIENCE MONASTIC LIFE FOR THE SUMMER. BY DOUG DAHER 
In the spring each year at Notre Dame one can be sure of hearing certain 
questions from student to student. 
"How many finals do you have?" 

"Are you going to the Dunes this weekend?" "What are you going to 
be doing this summer?" This last question is one that I had an unusually difficult time in responding to last spring, for how does one explain that he is spending the summer in a Benedictine monastery? Not that I felt any embarrassment concerning my decision to spend the summer in this manner, but the awkwardness laid in the numerous misconceptions the term "monastery" elicits from many people. (As one person quite sincerely asked—"Are they allowed to wear shoes?") Most of us lay Catholics have just never encountered the opportunity to experience this central, but submerged, life style of our religious tradition. I did. 
I left my home in Detroit June 13, flew to Rochester, N.Y., and then proceeded to hitch-hike down to Elmira. My last ride was with a very pretty young brunette in a Mustang convertible and as we sped up the hill to the monastery passing by two of the monks on a tractor-pulled wagon of baled hay, I had qualms of myflamboyant entrance scandalizing 
l».t*^''-.X'-HAMl.-JJ'^J!W^'-*Ml-fff-*^*"^.'-*-"*sgTi* 
them, worries I soon learned were totally unfounded. Perhaps this is the most common misconception about monastic ilfe, that monks are all the same type of person: that is, that holy man slinking down the hallway, close to the wall, his eyes to the ground. Most anyone living among these men for a few days would realize that monks are quite "normal." In fact, the wide spectrum of personalities and views of Ihe 26 men of the community led me to conclude that even a random sample could have hardly provided such a variety. I mean, there were doves and hawks, men in their 60's and men in their 20's, northerners and southerners, the scholars and the handyman. These men would laugh and could cry, had worries about community budgeting, scraped right fenders on the car, and perhaps had their moments of loneliness. Of course, one common factor among them was that each had reached the decision that this type of life was the best means for him to gain an awareness of God. 
By Sunday night, the other five ND students had arrived, and I per­ceived that some of the monks were a bit amused by the length of our hair. The mere presence of students was not an-unusual occasion at the 
i-ti.i-'j»-.i<;i,-vjj-.««'jii,j,v4-v>.tJH»U'.-x;Mva-w>.Ticw 
monastery, for there is a continual 
inflow/outflow of visitors at their guest house. What was so unique 
about our arrangements was that probably never before in the 1500 years of Western monasticism had a monastery offered to take in six outsiders, none of whom had vocational intentions, and allow them to totally participate in the routine. Of course, total participation was "total," and by Monday our heads were shaved and bodies fitted with black tunics. Our acceptance into the community was, in a manner of speaking, sociologically unique. I cannot think of another organization, outside of the family, which could initiate six new members and immediately function with them as equals. For example, all of us were given keys which opened any door in the monastery. Since there were no distinctions made, our actions in the eyes of visitors would be reflecting the community itself. This total acceptance by Mount Saviour of six strangers left it, in a real sense, quite vulnerable, but this trust allowed the forming of bonds that were never broken. 
After being initiated into the first couple of weeks of the monastic routine, the novelty of being "summer monks" rapidly diminished and the 

Front and center in the grouping of the Mount Savior six is Tom Hampson. The others, from left to right, are Mark Dellamano, John Cox, Tom Sullivan, Mike O'Shaugh­nessy and the author, Doug Daher. 
This group shot was taken before the students entered the monastary. The idea for the stay at Mount Savior was generated by Dr. William Storey of the ND Theology Department and Prof. Charles McCarthy, formerly of the Nonviolence Program at ND. 

future seemed to offer no more 
than monotony. It was in this state of dullness that my resistance was low and the rhythm of the day overtook me in its flow. Can I convince you that a day composed of prayer, study and manual labor in the right tempo has an irresistable beat? I imagine not, and neither did any of the monks attempt to convince us, 
for they knew if we allowed ourselves to be open, the rhythm would have us tapping our toes. The prayer life of a monk often connotes to many, contemplation, and indeed it was, not in a structured pattern of long periods of solemn silence. The Divine Office was sung in the fullness of chant five times a day, the psalms not being a prayer only for the mind, but for the whole person. The daily liturgy of the Mass was also a very active celebration. Of course, the observance of silence in the evening and during portions of the day allowed us the peace for the quiet prayer of the mind (or rather, the heart). 
The farm work of this self-sufficient community was a novel experience, for the six of us were all city boys. Once a week we each had our turn at milking, which we learned meant not only agile fingers, but also a strong stomach for cleaning up. Haying out in the fields gave me contact with the earth, a relation that somehow meant more than a pre­occupation of getting a job done. Also, the taken-for-granted skills of building maintenance and kitchen work were practical and refreshing assets to book-learned young men. 
The community in its routine of prayer, work, and play bore witness to the phenomenon that men could live together in peace. Not a "peace" confined to mere social agreeability, but one that extended to encompass the Christian hope that men from varied backgrounds and of real differences could accept each other, could share each other. The question I found myself confronting (as I am sure many guests who pass through Mount Saviour ask) was — Why? Why are men here so immersed in a living community life, while so many of us are failing, and thus despairing? The response of any one monk to this why would be his personal God-man relationship. The primary focus of the monks is not the striving for harmony in their relationships to each other to the best of their ability. The heart of the community is each man being aware of the love of God for him and his response in the awareness of this love. One result of his awareness of the Father's love is a harmony between him and the men around 
him. Even in failure of understanding 
•why these men could love, no guest seemed to leave Mount Saviour without being moved by the pres­ence of the love. Perhaps I make more sense in saying people left with faces that said, "There is hope." 
As the end of August approached, I knew that even though I would walk away as the same person who arrived ten weeks before, my foot­prints were significantly altered. I was not deified, or even canonized by the summer's end. But the question you are posing is what did happen to me? This is the question I should have been now addressing myself to, and yet I know that this article is not the place. In making reference to the creation story in Genesis, one of the monks said that there is more truth in a myth than there is in a scientific explanation, just as there is more truth in a poem than a newspaper article. 
Since we may never meet person­ally, perhaps someday I'll write a poem, and if you read it, the question of what happened to me might be answered. 
Doug Daher is a senior majoring in theology and sociology at ND. His reactions to the stay at the inonastary were written shortly after he returned to the University. 
Th@ eE&eteii 
As a result of the November elec­
tion, Notre Dame will have half a 
dozen alumni in the next Congress as 
well as one as governor of Ohio and a 
former professor as a U.S. senator. 
John J. Gilligan '43 was elected governor of Ohio after having served as a representative in the 86th Con­gress. He also had been the Demo­cratic nominee for U.S. senator in the 1968 campaign. 


Advent 
By Bill Mitchell '71 
"The individual," Andre Malraux has written, "stands in opposition to society, but he is nourished by it. And it is far less important to know what differentiates him than what nourishes him." 
What Malraux says is so true, and so tragically forgotten. Forgotten by this columnist, who would pontificate rather than speak. Forgotten by some alumni, who would condemn rather than understand. Forgotten by all who would divide rather than recon­cile, destroy rather than create. 
We stand together, in simple need of researching the source, of redis­covering what has nourished us there. In receiving that discovery, we may find it within ourselves to give, in turn, what nourishment we can. 
The season is Advent, the liturgical acknowledgment of man's waiting and looking for God, for the deepest of 

Rep. Terry Rep. Brademas Rep. McDade 
Now serving in the Senate is Jack 

R. Miller, of Sioux City, Iowa, who was an assistant professor of law at ND in 1948-49. 
Three of the ND alumni are new in Congress while the others are re­elected incumbents. 
Joining the House as freshmen are Rep. Joseph M. Gaydos '51L of McKeesport, Pa.; Rep. Romano L. Mazzoli '54 of Louisville, Ky., and 
•SiiEi(ites2t view-

nourishment. How strangely we await Him. But then that's said every year, isn't it? As Christmas approaches, we are always told that the killing must stop, that we must start treating one another as brothers. 
I recall being particularly moved by Martin Luther King's sermon on the Christmas before he was killed. "If we are to have peace on earth," he told his congregation, "our loyalties must become ecumenical rather than sectional. Our loyalties must transcend our race, our tribe, our class, and our nation; and this means we must develop a world perspective." 
I was moved because I knew Dr. King was living the Christian brother­hood he was preaching. And when he was killed, I knew that he had found nourishment in his fellow men, even unto death. 
Advent needs to be reconsidered, realizing that the way we choose to wait for God is finally the way we choose to live our lives. The early Christians realized this much more 
Rep. John H. Terry '45, of Syracuse, 
N.Y. 
Re-elected were John Brademas, of South Bend, Ind., who received an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws in 1969; Rep. Samuel L. Devine '40L, of Columbus, Ohio; Rep. Joseph M. McDade '53, of Scranton, Pa., and Rep. John N. Erlenbom, of Elmhurst, III., who was an undergraduate at ND in 1944 before going to Loyola U. 
vividly than we do now. And we need not assume their radical eschatology to share in their vision. While waiting for the coming of the Lord, they believed, a Christian simply does not kill his brother. He feeds him and comforts him. The martyrs and saints of the Church realized this; Dr. King realized this. 
In creation, and in the incarnation of Christmas, God continues to come. And as someone once said, it is absurd to walk around in creation as if it weren't. As Prof. Frank O'Malley has said, "The honor of man is not to dethrone God and put himself in His place, but humbly to partake in the process of creation." 
It is the beginning of winter and we await, at the end of spring, the birth of our first child. Amid our own im­poverishment of spirit, amid our own lingering opposition to our fellow men, Advent unearths itself in our lives and cries out, with hope, for love. 
It is this that is given, to be received as nourishment. 
'15 NOT BAD In the September issue I expressed my graUtude to JAMES VINCENT DONOGHUE Com. '40 for providing the transportation to the class reunion in June. In acknowledging the mention in the ALUMNUS, he was kind in offering the privilege next June. God willing, I will accept with pleasure. While engaged in the precinct registration and canvass earlier this month I had a chat with CYRIL 
T. BIRKBECK. '24 EE, who resides at 308 South Edgewood, LaGrange, III. 60525, and learned that he and his good wife had journeyed to ND for the ND-Purdue game and had also been fortunate to see the ND-Northwestem game at Evanston. Our Alma Mater appears to be having a good season, having thus far won five games and amassed 187 points as against 31 for its opponents. Not bad, eh? 
Had a pleasant surprise recently in the nature of a telephone call from GEORGE 
B. WAAGE '18 who resides at 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, 60647. He and some ND pals were looking at some pictures taken at the reunion in June including a snapshot of me. This prompted the call and I have a promise from George to come out for a visit and bring the pictures with him. George is the author of the 1918 column and is doing a fine job. In my notes for the Oct.-Nov. issue I made mention of the death of JOHN B. PICK, LLB '02 on July 3 in West Bend, Wis. "A native of West Bend, he attended the U. of Wisconsin for one year and then transferred to ND where he studied law and was quarterback for the Fighting Irish under the famous coach, Pat O'Day. Although admitted to the Wisconsin Bar in 1902, he never practiced law but instead joined his widowed mother and a brother EDWIN, CI '03, in the operation of the Pick Brothers Co., a large general merchandise store. In 1910 he left West Bend to homestead in the Judith Basin County, Mont., remaining there until 1926 when he returned to West Bend to open an insurance agency which he was engaged in until his retirement. Survivors include two daughters, Mrs. Mary Cambler, Girard, III., and Mrs. Marjorie Egnev, Milwaukee, and three sons, John M. Pick, West Bend, Dr. Daniel Pick, Manitowoc, and Father Phillip Pick, El Progresso, Honduras. Funeral services were held at Holy Angels Church." The above account appeared in the Milwaukee Sentinel and was provided by John M. Pick, a son. 
The following are excerpts from a letter from Rev. William J. McAuliffe CSC, of Holy Cross Assn at ND: 
"When relatives and friends die, ND alumni are going to use Mass cards and spiritual bouquet cards. I think they would be glad to get them from their Alma Mater, if they knew they were available. And I think they would be happy to know that their offering will help the Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers. 
"These cards are boxed by the dozen, with envelopes, at S3 per box. Requests should be addressed to Holy Cross Assn, Box K, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556." 
Of interest to the folks who read these 
class notes will be an excerpt from a 
column which appears daily in the 
Chicago Tribune by David Condon: "ND 
and Army played regularly from 1913 
thru 1947. . . . Then there was a lO-year 
lapse with officials of both schools explaining 
that the game had become too big, 
over-emphasized, etc. Ed Moran says: 
'That may be true. In fact, the ND-Army 
game became such an Irish holiday in 
New York that one year the archbishop of 
New York forbade any of his priests 
to attend under penalty of strong dis­
ciplinary action. And at the kickoff, you 
couldn't spot a Roman collar in Yankee 
Stadium. But late in the third quarter, 
a Notre Dame back was severely injured. 
He was lying there, unconscious on the turf. 
And 5,672 Irishmen—wearing sportscoats 
and slacks stood up and gave him 
conditional absolution.'" 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, III. 60525 
'16 PLAN FOR 55th Imagine the Class of '16 graduated 78 men. Now there are 20 times that many. I figure there are 41 members still living and now I'll try to get them back for our 5Sth next June 10-13. Met GEORGE SHANAHAN's '17 son at the reunion last June and that caused me to correspond with George. He is well and his wife also. They have five children and 21 grandchildren. Will be back next June. Drop him a card now at 619 N. Metcalf St., Lima, Ohio 45801. Got a note from EMELIO SALAZAR '16, formerly of Cuba and now of California. Please drop him a fine at 1400 Fremont Ave., South Pasadena, Calif. 91030. Will send comments from my ND scrapbook next time. The book is now in the North Woods until Thanksgiving. Now please send me news, you 1916 classmates. Grover F. Miller 1208 S. Main St. Racine, Wis. 53403. 
'17 NO BALLOTS We will lay it on the line and tell you that no written ballots were received regarding the merger with the 50-Year Club news column but we did get two viva voce notes (a neat little bit of alliteration to which your secretary is addicted). BERNIE VOLL, our class leader—didn't we elect him class president at our 50th reunion?—called and said to keep it going by all means, and your secretary replied in a feeble tone, "I surrender," which makes it a tie. So, what do we do now? In response to many inquiries, believe it or not, and if I were you, I would not, the Carrollite involved in the Barber Shop episode in the August issue, which was a true story, was a third-year prep named Wallie Ward from Philadelphia, from whom we would like to hear or from anyone who knows about him. 
DUKE RILEY has surrendered to the rigors of the Maine winter and plans to spend most of the bad months in various parts of the southwest, meaning Arizona and Texas, we presume, although he may go as far as California. CHET GRANTs latest novel is called Fumble Stumble Sandy and is supposed to be the fictional story of the famous Ohio State-ND football game in 1935, which either you or any high 
school boy would enjoy readjng. You 
can order by mail from the Campus Book 
Store if it is not on your dealer's shelf. 
Did you take dancing lessons from 
HUGHIE O'NEILL and STAN COFALL 
in the Serin subway so you could attend 
the Senior Ball? Tdl us. Pepper, did the 
Victrola belong to you or did you 
rent it from Louie Bbel? Or is it none 
of our business? PAUL FOGARTY said 
if he knew it was going to be like 
Niagara Falls, he would have had it done 
years ago. What is he talking about? 
He and Elizabeth were at the Orrington 
during September in Evanston, III. to visit 
friends on the ix>rth shore and to see the 
Northwestern and Purdue games. 
Personal to GEORGE HALLER—please 
come in with some Lifer stories for which 
you win receive credit. We are running 
dry. Do you have anything on 
WALLIE WARD? 
The CARLETON BEHs of Des Moines 
gave a dinner party at the Evanston 
Country Club to celebrate the Northwestern 
victory and had as their guests the 
Fogartys and the VoUs. At the Purdue 
game—Fogarty, LEO VOGEL and Voll 
with a box full of guests, and perhaps 
others that we did not hear about. Let us 
know if you made any of the home games. 
Those who know say if we get by 
Go Go Tech and LSU and beat USC, we 
will zoom right into the Orange Bowl. After 
seeing most of the home games since 
1910, when a banner across the front of 
the old gym read, "Western Champions— 
Football and Track," your secretary 
has decided to retire and follow them 
on the boob tube or on radio; there is a 
limit after all, you know, or at least that 
is what your friends keep telling you. 
The VoUs are touring Europe for a month and will visit friends in Vienna and Rome. They expect to be back for the Georgia Tech game. 
A very Merry Christmas to all good '17ers with the fervent hope that 1971 (our class numerals in reverse) will bring you peace, happiness and good health. Dan E. Hilgartner, Jr. 1701 Turtle Creek Dr., N. South Bend, Ind. 46637 
'18 VISIT GIPP MONUMENT Sincerely trust that you enjoyed Thanks­giving Day. WILLIAMS J. ANDRES and JOHN J. VOELKERS stopped by and visited at 3305. Andres doesn't mind driving and was on his way to the West Coast NEIL J. (WHITEY) WHALEN and Rosemary are enjoying good health and taking in the football games as is CARLETON D. BEH, who is still holding down Box D-I4 for home games. JOSEPH 
T. RILEY sure writes an interesting letter. Sending copy to PETER J. RONCHETTI and FRANK X. RYDZEWSKI. The "Judge" writes about a trip taken with his son to Copper Harbor and checking grave of GEORGE GIPP. In Laurium, located in a small park, is a monument which is about 12 feet high and good size. Part of the monument is copper and there is a football at the top of the bronze plaque. On the plaque there is "GEORGE GIPP—All American—1895-1920." There's no reference to his college a£Bliation which was shocking. The town of Laurium was the home town of three players on the ND team, George Gipp, HEARTLEY (HUNK) ANDERSON and O. J. LARSEN. 
Birthdays: 
Dec. IS, FRANK M. KIRKLAND LLB 
'17, 950 S.W. 21st, PorUand, Ore. 97205; Dec. 18, CARLETON D. BEH Ph.B. '17, 5323 Waterbury Rd., Des Moines, la. 50312; Dec. 21, EDWIN T. BREHN, 1542 Sherwin Ave., Chicago, 111. 60626; Dec. 28, PAUL EDGREN, 701 Culberton Dr., Oklahoma City, Okla. 73105; Dec. 31, RENE A. RODRIGUEZ, Ph.G., 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80205; Jan. 11, WALTER DUNCAN, Ph.B.-LL.D. '12, Box 211, LaSalle, Ul. 61301; Jan. 23, JOHN A. LEMMER, Ph.B., 901 Lake Shore Dr., Hscanaba, Mich. 49829; Jan. 21, LEONARD F. MAYER, ME, 721 So. Beach St., Daytona Beach, Fla. 32014; Jan. 24, Rev. P. E. HEBERT CSC AB-AM­Ph.D. '10, Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556; Jan. 24, JOHN B. KANALEY AB '09, 215 E. 64th St., New York, N.Y. 10021; Jan. 31, JOHN E. CASSIDY LLB '17, 1128 Jefferson BIdg., Peoria, 111. 61602; Feb. 1, ALBERT F. GUSHURST PhB '09, 936 E. Centre, Denver, Colo. 80222; Feb. 27, PATRICK MALONEY LLB '16, 216 Las Olas Dr., Crown Point, Ind. 46307; Feb. 23, LEO J. VOGEL ME '17, 286 Magnolia PI., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228; Feb. 23, ARTHUR J. BERGMAN '17, 3910 Rosemary St., Chevy Chase, Md. 20015. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 
HAPPY NEW YEAR 
George B. Waage 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60647 
'20 SEND INFO 
We have requested that our vice-presidents 
send some information that may be sent 
on for our Alumni reports. 
JOHN BALFE reports that he talked to LEN CALL. He and Catherine are taking their annual European trip, stopping at Lisbon, Madrid and Rome. Father Hesburgh was in town Oct. 15 to talk to the "Presidents Committee" of the Metropolitan area. John expects to be at the Dotal Country Club in December and, perhaps, Argentina during January. James H. Ryan 2470 East Ave. Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
'22 SADDENED We of '22 are much saddened by the deaths of two additional classmates: WILLIAM 
J. MURPHY PhBC of 2308 Cardinal Dr., Point Pleasant Borough, NJ., and THOMAS E. (SARGE) OWENS ME, of 2995 W. Bertrand Rd., Niles, Mich., the two deaths occurring on Sept. 19 and 28, respectively. Bill and Sarge have always been greatly admired by all of their classmates because of their very pleasing personalities and their ability to make friends and keep them. Bill Murphy was an accountant associated for many years with the firm of Joseph B. Day & Co.— Realtors, of New York, N.Y. We extend our deep sympathy to Mrs. Murphy (Elsie) and others in the family—one daughter, three sons, including BILL '51, and 11 grandchildren. Bill retired in 1965. His ieath was caused by peritonitis. JOHN BOYLE '20 of New York was able to be with the Murphy family at the time of the funeral. 
The death of Thomas (Sarge) Owens was the result of an auto tragedy on US 31 near Peru, Ind. Tom was on an act of mercy when the accident occurred. He was driving Jesse B. Marlin of Niles, a 76-year-oId neighbor, to visit his son in the Peru Hospital. The acddent happened while the Sarge car was passing a house trailer being towed. The Owens car crashed into a concrete cidvert The passenger with Owens was critically injured and hospitalized in Peru. Sarge was a retired employee of Bendix Corp. Seven years ago the Owens family moved from South Bend to NOes. Survivors are the widow, the former Edith Bogner of South Bend; three sons, James M., stationed in Thailand with the Air Force, and Thomas E. Jr., and Robert J., of South Bend; and one daughter, Mrs. J. A. Young of Auburn, Ala.- Saige served with the Army Air Corps in WWL The Class of '22 was well represented at the rosary and funeral Mass in the persons of FRANK (RANGY) MILES, WALTER SHILTS, LEO LOVETT and CHET GRANT. Rangy also served as pallbearer. Our sympathy and solace to all in the Owens family. 

In St. Louis, Mo., on Aug. 16 occurred the death of Mrs. George A. McCalpin, sister of Frank Miles of South Bend. Mrs. McCalpin was a distinguished Catholic laywoman who had well served the community of SL Louis County and also Catholic associations and programs over the years. In 1949 she was honored by the late Pope Pius XII with the medal Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice for her outstanding Church work at a public ceremony in the St. Louis Cathedral. In I%2 she was named a Globe-Democrat Woman of Achievement. Some of the offices held by Mrs. McCalpin were: President of the St. Louis Archdiocesan Council of Women, vice-president and director of the Child Welfare Advisory Committee and participant in the White House Conference on Children and Youth. It was most fortunate that Rangy was able to have a nice three-day visit with his sister in St. Louis prior to her death. We extend our sympathy to him in his great loss. He is now the only survivor of his immediate family. Cardinal Carberry of St. Louis attended the funeral Mass as did Bishop Byrne of the SL Paul-Minneapolis area. 
Our '22 classmates continue on the move to and from distant places and we rejoice that they are able to do so. In mid-September FRANK and Kathiyn CONNELLY of Southern California reported in from Vitznau, Switzeiiand, and JACK and Margaretta HIGGINS of the Detroit area wrote from LeMans, France, hometown of the CSC. The day their card was written they had just come from Mont St Michel and were headed for the Loire Valley. 
We do wish every member of our 1922 family a blessed and joyous Christmas along with a plenitude of hapinness and good health in the years ahead. 
G. (Kid) Ashe 175 Landing Rd. North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 DAWNING OF AGE Merry Christmas. The first such salutation of the season since this is written Oct 19. And pass it along to other members of the class, especially those you would especially like to see at our 50th Reunion. Write a note on your card. It may lead to letters. And if any interesting news items develop, move them along to me. that age for all members of THE GOIDEN 
DOME CLASS who Were not prodigies 
in '19. Of course, none of us beh'eve it; 
there has been a mistake somewhere. 
The therapeutic thing about a class reunion 
is that nobody seems to have changed 
very much, personality-wise, since campus 
days. There are no successes, no failures, 
just people who bring back memories 
of hope and happiness. Youth was not 
wasted on our generation. 
Letters . . . My first communication was a Class Letter back in September. The first reidy was from my old roommate at ND and New York, HARRY FLANNERY. "Your idea of including the ladies is a great start. Mary was with me on my last quick trip to ND to talk with John Ehmann of the University Press and lunch with Father LEO WARD." . . . JACK NORTON likes the idea of kicking off for the SOth Reunion though he thinks "Seventy-Three seems a long time in the future." Which proves our Greatest Living Ex-President still thinks young. . . CoL FRANK DORIOT weighs in (weighs is used advisedly) with the usual enclosures; but the cocktail napkin seemed more expressive than the blurb of the Cambridge Society For Early Music. Come on, Doriot! The Colonel guarantees that he and his wife will Whoopdedee in Seventy-Three; and this nobody can deny for this is the guy who turned up at our 25th with a picture of his two-year-old daughter (everybody else had pictures of grandchildren). 
Retirement . . . MURRAY POWERS retired from editorship of the Akron Beacon-Journal, a major newspaper, four years ago. You might say he had planned for the day since he had been doing part-time teaching at Kent State U. for 26 years. He is now a full professor and has begun to publish articles in various media. He writes that he hears often "from FRANK NEITZEL out in Boise, Idaho. Frank and his wife Betilah do a lot of traveling. . . . My cousin Jeff in Urbana had surgery this summer but is coming along well . . ." And this: "I am awaiting the opening of Kent State. Everybody seems edgy. Most of the action last spring was right around Taylor Hall which is the Journalism buOding." This is retirement? Purdue Weekend . . . Murray and his wife hoped to be at the Purdue and Army games. I missed him at the Purdue happy-time but did meet JIM MARTIN and EDGAR RAUB with their wives. I reminded these beauties that all '23 wives were now assistant class secretaries who (hopefully) would provide the news in letters their husbands don't seem to write. I have great hopes, in this category, from Mrs. GENE HINES out in Tucson, Ariz., where, no doubt they will again be having their annual Christmas party. Last year the 35 guests, including several ND alums, were sworn in as honorary deputy marshals of Tombstone, Aiiz. The affair was reported 
in the Tombstone Epitaph by Chief Nino Cochise who is 96. All this was forwarded to me by Father JOHN DUFFY. 
'73 . . . In my letter I invited class members to drop in our room at The Inn after the Georgia Tech game. If there was something to celebrate we probably had a good group. The intention was to begin idans for 73 with the appointment of a national conmiittee. What they didn't know was that I also hoped to recruit members for the city conmiittees of the International Sports & Games Research Collection. Communications Gap . . . Our Prez, Red Shea, has been having difficulty finding somebody who will drive to the campus and stay overnight. His oidy criticism of the younger generation is that they all want to make the round trip from Dayton in one day. . . . And LYLE MILLER is getting a bit lonely down in old Vincennes, Ind., since STAN BRADBURY and BILL FITZGERALD passed away. He would appreciate people going south on U.S. 41 to Florida or East or West on U.S. 50 getting in touch. 
Generation Gap . . . We had our annual family party at the Purdue game. I was with my son JOHN '54 and grandson Mark. Two students passed in the regalia: Beards, hair, bare feet, beads, etc. Mark, 8, said: "Those teenagers are dumb." Frank Wallace 4615 Guernsey St. BeUaire, O. 43906 
'24 STIR SOMETHING When we drank coffee at Clark's Campus Cafeteria back in the good old days, we asked for half & half. That was half coffee and half cream. We put in two teaspoons of sugar and stirred. You had to keep stirring. We remind you of this simply as an introduction and gadget to get you stirring up some tales like the following: 
EARLE HURLEY supplied these details about JOE SWIFT. Jim returned from a skive circa 2 a.m. in February, 1923. It was a cold night. He had to use the "private" entrance through ED BROWN'S window. He was doing fine until he started to climb into bed and found it occupied. The bed-warmer . . . Father (Bones) McGarry himself. That was Jim's initiation in pleading a case in higher court. It must have been a well-designed plea because Jim obviously got off with a warning. Ed Brown (from Helena, Mont., that is) you are being paged. Earle wants to know where to locate you as a star witness if Jim should deny the story. Judge JOHN F. KILKENNY '25 adds bits of information once in a while. As you may know, he was in our freshman class in 1920 and then missed a year. The September issue brought back many fond memories of freshman year to bim when he read the '24 column. He adds, "I cannot recall an issue when JOHN HURLEY '25 failed to have a word to his classmates." The judge wonders if the June reunion, his 45th, was too much for the class secretary. If we are slow with intra-class discussion, we are ahead in inter-class reactions in this column. PAUL C. MARTIN writes that he married the sister of a '25er; that his life has been very pleasant but, "I didn't amount to much." That is admirable humility, Paul .. . not many can be so distinguished. We remember you as the imassuming boss of the Juggler staff; and evident that you worked diligently at it and let the others take the bows. Whatever happened to GEO. DEVERS "23 in his later years? 
How come you kept such an active social contact with CHARLIE de la VERGNE, way down south in New Orieans? Indianapolis or St Louis was not just around the comer from New Orleans in those days—or was it? I had a memorable visit with Charlie, and a dinner in his stately dining room, back about 1927. For years, HANK WURZER '25 was. 
and may still be, the mediator for his 
class and their spiritual bouquets for 
classmates. There is a service open to all 
Alumni through Rev. William J. McAuliffe 
CSC, Box K, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
(phone 219 233-3869) where we can make 
a deposit in "The Golden Treasury of 
Holy Cross Prayer" and share for those 
designated all the spiritual benefits of the 
prayers and Masses of the Holy Cross 
Fathers. Very nicely finished "remembrance 
cards" can be purchased and mailed 
out as the occasion warrants. Those 
interested should contact him. Jot down 
the address or, better yet, get in touch 
with him now. Financial benefits go toward 
the education of young men for priesthood 
in the Holy Cross Fathers. 
This is reaching you just before Christmas. 
We hope you will give a very special 
thought to your old classmates at this 
time. Write that card or make that phone 
call which you have been promising. 
Call that old buddy that you haven't 
seen in months or years. Tell him you still 
think of him. What happiness you could 
spread with that simple gesture. We can't 
say who would be happier . . . you 
or the receiver. Try it and find out Since 
I have been your secretary I have found 
out how much it means to many of 
those whose names have merely been 
mentioned in this column. Think what it 
would mean to your old close friends to 
hear from you personally. Merry 
Christmas, fellows. Stir your sugar on 
the bottom of your cup. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 SW Scholls Ferry Rd. 
PorUand, Ore. 97225. 
'25 LONESOME END We are sorry the place for the '25ers' gathering was not announced as promised at the half time of the Purdue game. Our bartender was really "the lonesome end." I ran into FRANK STEEL in Akron and enjoyed having lunch with him. He was one of few who got word of our Purdue get-together. Fraud had his son with him at the game. The Alumni Office belatedly received news of the death of HAROLD M. EATON who died Sept 2, 1969. Our deepest sympathy to his family at 11834 Chicago Plaza, Omaha, Neb. 68154. We heard about the death of CHARLES BAUMGARTNER on May 17, at the reunion. Charles had two ND sons, FRED '51 and JAMES '59. The family residence is 1155 E. Donald St, South Bend, Ind. Word came th^ week of the death of PAUL HOEFFLER. Paul died Aug. 27. He lived at 472 
S. Franklin St, WUkes-Barre, Pa. HANK WURZER will advise the wives of these classmates that a class Mass will be said. 
Played golf this summer with AL MUELLER of Rocky River, Ohio. He said he received a card from JOHN MAHON who lives in Cleveland that he was touring the state of Washington and the province of British Columbia. John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 
'27 MEET IN ACC Following the Army game TOM DUNN and I, accompanied by our wives, went over to the new Athletic and Convocation Center for the general class reunion which had been prepared by the Alumni Association. The classes were arranged accordiiig to years. We had no trouble findiiig our place although we were a little disconcerted to learn that we were grouped with the classes from 1900 to 1930. We met and conversed with several class­mates. PAT SIZE reported on his activities—he is president of a construction company at Vincennes, Ind, but his business takes bim to many faraway places. He recently spent many months building the Al-Can Highway. HARRY O'BOYLE has retired from his position as Chicago district manager of the Chevrolet Division of General Motors. He says he idays a lot of golf most of the year but did say he might start to work again during the winter months. Also at the reunion were NEIL GALONE and WALTER VAHY, both of whom appear to be well and enjoying the weekend. 
Tom Dimn, incidentally, had recently been on a trip to Minnesota and Iowa. On his trip he saw EMMETT BARRON and ED (MOON) MULLEN. Both of these classmates hailed from Fonda, la., and Ed is still there practicing law. Emmett has retired as attorney for an insurance company in St Paul or Miimeapolis but his fellow townsman still carries on a practice. DICK and JOHN HALPIN, the Chicago brothers, attended the game and as a matter of fact, sat next to Tom—they were unable to get over to the reunion, however, so I did not get to see them. Both are retired and happy. After leaving the ACC, Tom and I called on another classmate—Rev. JAMES E. MOHAN CSC, who has been living at the infirmary since disability incurred a few years ago which makes it difficult for him to maneuver. He carries on a career of teaching, however, and continues to thrive in the academic atmosphere. He sees all the home football games from the press i>ox. That of course, is a vantage spot at any time, particularly during the days when the weather is like it was during the Purdue game. By coincidence, you will recall, we had two Father JIM MORANs. The other is Fr. JAMES J. MORAN, who has a parish at Newberry, Ohio, and is carrying on his regular activities and manages to enjoy some hobbies as well. While on the subject of priests, I want to report that I received a 
letter from Fr. WILLIAM J. McAULIFFE, who is director of the Holy Cross Assn at ND. Priests of the association are available for offering Masses at the request of aliumii and other persons interested. ND is certainly an appropriate place for Masses in memory of departed alumni and friends of ND. As you will recall, our class has a Mass said at ND each month for those memtiers who have passed away. It woidd not be remiss for each of us to remember ND individually when plaiming to use Mass cards and spiritual bouquets. 
The secretary of the ND Club of San Jose has sent me a clipping which appeared in an earlier issue of the ALUMNUS, but which I had missed. It states that DAVE HICKEY was the recipient of the club's ND Man of the Year award for his many years of dedicated service to the University. This honor is certainly well deserved and we are glad to join Dave's other friends in commending him for this. Clarence J. Ruddy 111 W. Downer Place Aurora, ID. 60504 
'28 THANKS FOR COMING Thanks to ED QUINN and Helena, 52 classmates plus 83 members of their families and friends attended the ISth annual '28 class cocktail party after the Purdue game at ND. JOE MADDEN, JOHN McMANMON, BILL O'MARA, VINCE PENOTE, FRED SOLMAN and LARRY STADLER were on hand for the first time at one of our post-game parties. Classmates who were with us again included JIM ALLAN, NEIL AMIOT, BOB BANNON, BERNIE BIRD, JOHN BRANNON, GENE BROWN, PAUL BRUST, LOU BUCKLEY, PHIL CENEDELLA, JIM CONMEY, FRANK CREADON, JIM CURRY '29, DENNY DALY, JOE DORAN, BILL DWYER, TOM HART, JOE HILGER, MIKE HOGAN, ART HOLTON, JOHN IGOE, GUS JENKINS, JIM KEARNS, JOHN LAHEY, JOE LANGTON, BILL LEAHY, JOHN LEITZINGER, RAY LUSSON, TOM MAHON, HERB MCCABE, FRANK MCCARTHY, LEO MCINTYRE, E D MCKEOWN, FRANK MEYER, ART MILLER, BILL MURPHY, JOHN R. MURPHY, DICK QUINLAN, ED QUINN, ED RAFTER, JOHN REIDY '27, MARTY RYAN, GEORGE SCHEUER, SWEDE SCHROEDER, CLETE SCHNEIDER '29, CHARLIE SCHUESS­LER, BERNIE SCHUH, GERALD SHEIBLEY, JOHN SMITH, Fr. LOU THORNTON CSC and VINCE WALSH. Let me know if I missed any of you classmates. It was wonderful to have BILL COYNE'S widow, Eleanor, and her sister, Virginia Little, with us again and also Anita Casasanta. My Corby Hall roommate, DENNY DALY, who had a leg amputated and later fell in his office and broke his hip since we last saw him, inspired us with his courage and determination as he greeted us at the party. Denny is back at his law office in St. Paul. I was sorry that LOU NORMAN was unable to attend the party this year because of pending surgery. 
Joe Doran and Fran will have another outstanding Class of '28 post-Purdue game party on Sept 25, 1971, at their home outside of Lafayette, Ind. Our 16th Annual '28 Class pany will be held at ND following the Michigan State game on Oct 2, 1971. Make a note of these dates for next year and plan to attend both parties. Gus Jenkins stopped in Cleveland to see TOM BYRNE, who is making progress in his recovery from hip surgery. CARROLL PINKLEY reported from Portageville, Mo., where he is in the drug business, that his mother is 96 years of age. 
I regret to report the death of JOE GERAGHTY on Oct 16 in Rochester, N.Y. He had been with George Bonbright Co., stockbrokers, for many years. Joe is survived by his widow, Dorothy, a son and two daughters, one of whom is Sr. Sheila, RSM. He was a regular attendant at our class reunions and was looking forward to retirement in 1970 when I saw him in 1968. Joe served as president of the ND Club of Rochester and as chairman of the bishop's committee on Scouting. KEN POWER added to his thoughtful note informing me of Joe's death, "I know his host of '28 friends will have a prayer for the repose of his soul." 
Our sympathy is extended to PHIL CENEDELLA on the death of his mother at age 90 in Milford, Mass. GENE FARRELL advised me of the death of Col. GEORGE McNALLY, U.S.A. (retired). 
a brother-in-law of Gene's, who started 
at ND with our class. He was a special 
student in the School of Music under 
Joe Casasanta. For most of his 20-year 
Army career he commanded the com­
munications theatre at the White House 
and served four Presidents. 
Add the following to our previous list of 
50 retirees: Johnny "Clipper" Smith, from 
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in Hartford, 
Conn., after 30 years of service; ALBIN 
M. (BILL) GRIFFIN from the Bethlehem Steel Co., where he served as a patent attorney; Neil H. Amiot from his cleaning business in Wyandotte, Mich. Neil built a home on a golf course at 5308 Sea Grape Circle Woodlands, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he is now living. Joe HUger, whom I reported as retired, sold his famous White House Department Store and is now operating a specialty shop in Columbus, Ind. JOHN RODGERS is semi-retired. Our traveling classmates include the following: FLOYD SEARER (Japan and Hong Kong); BILL KIRWAN (Ireland and BerUn); VINCE CARNEY (Istanbul to attend a conference); PAT CANNY (Honolulu); Lou Buckley (Geneva, Switzerland, to attend the World Congress of the International Industrial Relations Association); GENE FARRELL (Bali. Singapore, Bangkok, New Delhi and Agra); Swede Schroeder (Asia). Don't forget to send me a card on your next trip. 

STEVE SHERRY had a triple Golden Jubilee in his family with his brothers. Father Robert celebrating SO years as a parish priest in Cincinnati, Father Joseph, 50 years as a Marianist, and a sister, 50 years as a Notre Dame nun. CYP SPORL announced the merger of his company, one of the oldest insurance brokerage firms on the Gidf Coast, with Frank B. Hall & Co. of New York, one of the nation's largest companies in this field. Cyp will continue to operate in New Orleans as a division of the Hall Co. Ken Power's wife, Helen, is a member of the board of regents of the State Univ. of New York, which recently awarded an honorary degree to Father Hesburgh. Ken continues as commissioner of the board of elections of Monroe County, N.Y. One nice result of the class entering the retirement stage is that I am hearing for the first time in many cases from retirees that they have been reading this column for 42 years. A letter from JIM HURL­BERT is typical of this trend. Jim retired in May and enjoyed a vacation in Europe. After being a widower for 11 years. Jim married in September and lives at 9 Garden St., Tequesta, Ha. 33458. He expects to spend the summers in Canada with his family which includes four married sons and daughters and 12 grandchildren. 
I was sorry to hear that GEORGE COURY suffered a massive heart attack on Aug. 20 at the Miami Heart Institute while there for a check-up. Although still in the hospital two months later, his wife, Amelia, reports that he has made great progress toward recovery. Thanks to ED RAFTER and to BILL WERNER of Little Rock, Ark., who was at ND in 1927, for advising me of George's illness. Congratulations to BILL BROWN of Milwaukee on his co-authorship with Andrew Greeley of a book published in October, 1970, by Sheed & Ward entided 
Can Catholic Schools Survive? 
Louis F. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, III. 60626 
'29 BEAM OF UGHT Untn mid-afternoon Oct. 5 it was a dark, dismal, drizzling day at ND. Just a few minutes before the modest casket of Fr. THOMAS AQUINAS LAHEY CSC was wheeled down the center aisle of Moreau Seminary Chapel for his burial Mass the sky cleared and a beam of sutdight from a high west wall window focused on the spot his mortal remains were to occupy for the hour before interment. He was eulogized, by a young CSC priest whom Father had obviously influenced, as a dedicated teacher, a gifted writer, a wise counselor and in the final months of his illness, when he could no longer actively write or counsel, as one who taught by his example. "I have been requested to teach this course in Technical Report Writing to you people (undergraduate engineers of '29). My competence and experience is in advertising. Let's see if a knowledge of advertising can be of as much use to you." The preceding quote of Fr. Thomas Lahey in 1927 is your secretary's recollection of the beginning of a memorable course. Another quote of Father Lahey which my classmates will vouch for is something like this, "One of the most effective devices in advertising is the utilization of nursery rhymes and similar jingles,"—this was 25 years before TV conunercials. The first paragraph of Father's 1924 book titled The Morals of Newspaper Making is in part "All labor, whether in trades or in professions, has, in purely natural order its chief return in man. . . . The real and lasting reward of a man's service is the consciousness of the good he has done for his fellow man." In Father's profession he functioned 
effectively in the natural order and even more so in the supernatural. May he rest in peace. 
CLETE SCHNEIDER writes, "After many years I finally caught up with LOUIS 

R. SINCLAIR. We met him and his wife at Schuler's Tavern in Marshall, Mich., after the Michigan State game. He hasn't been back since 1928 when he lived in Baden Hall, but he asked for BILL FRITSCHE, TOM CASEY, LOUIE KREM, Dr. VAICHULIS, BOB NEW­BOLD, JACK ELDER and PAT LAWLESS (among the missing). Louie Sinclair is now retired from news editorship of the Battle Creek Enquirer & News. He sees his fellow townsman. BOB WARD, often. Louie is writing a play about newspaper people and hopes to include some of the characters he met at ND. 
"After all these years you finally rounded up ROCCO PERONE and REYNOLDS SEITZ for the after-Purdue rally, congratulations." Reynolds is still a full-time prof of law at Marquette U. Law School—after 12 years as dean of law, until 1966. Prof. Seitz has been very successful as impartial fact-finder in break­ing negotiating impasses between teachers and boards of education in public school area. In August alone, he handled eight matters in some of the larger cities in Illinois and Indiana. His recommendations were taken in every case. From LOU BUCKLEY, secretary. Class '28, "JIM ALLAN '28 and BILL DWYER '28 attended the ordination of BOB VOGEL-WEDE's *29 son as a Jesuit, in Michigan on June 13 and 14. LARRY O'CONNOR '30 was also there." A. M. GRIFFIN has retired from his position as manager of patents in the research department of Bethlehem Steel Corp. He joined the 
company in 1934 as patent engineer. 
In retirement he and his wife will divide 
their time between homes at Orleans on 
Cape Cod, Mass., and 54 E. Church St, 
Bethlehem. 
We knew, courtesy of GEORGE SCHMIDT, that it was his (Dr. JIM TOBIN's) birthday and that he and Mar­garet were coming to the after-Purdue game party so we baked a cake. We regret that we failed to record it on film, but it was a pleasant surprise to Jim and a tasty dessert for the over 60 people who were here to share a happy victory and the pleasure of get-together number 13. Thanks to JOE LENIHAN for initiating this means of bringing '29ei5 together who might otherwise all attend the game but never see each other before, during or after. The first of the after-game class parties was after the Army game in 1958. Included among those who were here are: Dr. CHARLES BAUM, TOM CASEY, ROSS CEFALEO, JOHN and Mary COLAN­GELO, CHARLES and Mary COLTON, FRANK and Opal CROWE, JIM CURRY, JOE and Judy DAUTREMONT, FRANK­LYN and Mary DOAN, FRANCIS and Mis. FLYNN. 
GENE and Marian GALDABINI, WAL­TER and Mrs. GREER, JOHN and Mrs. HARRINGTON, FRANK and Mrs. O'BRIEN, JOE and Rosemary O'BRYAN, ROCCO PERONE, Dorothy (Mrs. DON) PLUNKETT, EDWARD SAYRE, GEORGE and Jessie SCHMIDT, CLETE and Dorothy SCHNEIDER, REYNOLDS and Mrs. SEITZ, LARRY and Margaret STAUDER, Father LOUIS THORNTON CSC, JIM and Margaret TOBIN, BOB and Louise VOGELWEDE and ALBERT and Mildred ZOELLER plus sons, daughters, and guests. 
There were many who sent regrets because of conflicts, some with news that you will see in the next column. We missed Father JOE BARRY CSC and Father OTEY WINCHESTER and those who have valid obligations of other kinds. Larry F. Stauder Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'30 MAGNET The Purdue game weekend was the magnet that attracted lots of alumni to the campus. TIM TOOMEY arrived Friday for a discussion of University and 1930 class affairs. After dinner at the University Club, we took a mim'-tour of the campus, and then met DAN CANNON and his wife at the Morris Inn. They were accompanied by JOHN ABERNATHY '33 and his wife along with other Columbus guests. The whole group later moved their base to the University Club where FRANK LEAHY and his guests plus LEON HART and his family were gathering for some pre-game scrimmaging. DOUG DALEY, his wife and son visited the Dean's office the day before the Army game. The years have dealt kindly with Doug and he looks very well. They now reside in New York. 
The news of DINNY SHAVs death, July 22, is sad to report. He had been with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft for 19 years, after coaching at Bowdoin College, Wethersfield State Prison, and at several naval stations while he was in the Navy during World War II. I am sure he and his family will be remembered in prayers. We are often asked about getting 


Congrats 
STANLEY R. SHEERAN MA'39, PhD'41 has been named executive vice-president of Tenneco Chemicals, Inc., in New Yoric He joined the fiim in 1966 and has been senior corporate oflBcer. He resides with his wife and their three children in Summit, N J. 
ROBERT P. WILLIAMS '29 has 
compiled debates of the original 
United States Congress into a bode 
entitled "The First Congress, March 
4, 1789-March 3, 1791" published 
by Exposition Press, New Yoik. 
Williams, who also graduated £rom 
the National Law School in the 
District of Columbia, served for 33 
years as a member of the staff of 
the committee on appropriations. 
House of Representatives. 
DR. ROBERT R MACK '46 has 
been elected to the post of president 
and chief executive oflBcer of Hutzel 
Hospital, Detroit, Mich. He joined 
the hospital staff in 1961 as chief of 
the department of medicine and later 
was named chief administrative 
oflScer. He is also a professor of 
medicine at Wayne State U. in 
Detroit 
TRAVIS MARSHALL '48 has been named to the newly created position of manager, marketing operations for the communications division of Motorola, Inc. He will be responsible for coordinating activities of the marketing division, marketing services and the Motorola FCC liaison oflBce in Washingtcm, D.C. 
EDMUND V. MARSHALL '46 fc 
now executive vice-president of 
United Aircraft Corp.'s Hamilton 
Standard Division in Windsor Locks, 
Conn. He received an M.A. in areo­
nautical engineering from Purdue U. 
in 1947 and is a member of the 
American Institute of Aeronautics 
and Astronautics and the American 
Astronautical Society. 
RICHARD L. SCHAEFFER '49 has been promoted to manager of the insurance systems and statistical management unit of the Chicago-based CNA Financial Corp. Schaeffer, who has be^a in the insurance field for 21 years in various supervisory and management positions in claims, lives in Wheeler, Ind. 
Mass cards and spiritual bouquet cards at ND. I want to inform you that they may be obtained from Father WILLIAM McAULIFFE CSC, director of the Holy Cross Assn, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Many ND alumni want to enroll relatives or friends in the Holy Cross Assn so that they can share in all the Masses offered by Holy Cross priests. I know Fr. McAuliffe will be pleased to hear from you and give fiill details on the work of the association. 
The November games have suddenly become big football attractions here, so I should see many alumni coming for them, and maybe I can squeeze some class news out of them. Devere T. Plunkett College of Arts and Letters Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 WARM-UP FOR REUNION 
It is that time again for your class secretary. Now that you have received your official class roster from the Alumni Office, I am expecting some interesting news and plans for our FORTIETH REUNION next June. In the meantime we had a small warm-up at the cocktail party following the Army-ND game Oct 10. Among those present with their wives or friends were: CLARENCE FUTTER, MATT GAR­RIGAN, FRANK BUTORAC, JIM MULVANEY, BILL DESENBERG, JOHN LISICKI, AUSTIN BOYLE, DR. FRANK CANOLE, BOB MASSEY, JERRY DESMOND, JOHN WEIBLER, TOM CANNON, GENE VALLEE, CHARLIE CUSHWA, JOE WETLL ROBERT J. KUHN, DEON SUTTON, BERT METZGER, JIM DOYLE, JOE MORRISSEY '28, JERRY CROWLEY, BUD TOUHY, DON MacDONALD, JERRY BALL, BOB PENDERGAST and RAY COLLINS. My apologies to any I may have missed. A few who made reservations failed to appear. Generally speaking, the attendance both last year and this year was excellent 1 would appreciate your opinion as to the desirability of a similar party following one of the games next fall. Our thanks to CLARENCE FUTTER and MIKE JORDAN '68 for their help, as well as to Mike Suddes, a sophomore who capably handled the registration as well as necessary collections from those attending. Among the missing were SPIKE SULLIVAN, TOM MONAHAN, CARL CRONIN, JACK SCHMITT and some others who were present last year. 
I had a letter last month from Spike Sullivan who keeps in more or less constant touch with Tom Monahan. He also reported visits with JERRY CROWLEY and BOB GORE. Via Frank Canole, BART O'SHEA sends greetings to the class. Word has been received of the death of BOB JOYCE, Rockford, lU., earlier this month. Bob spent his freshman year in Howard Hall and his son, JACK, JR., is a 1964 graduate. Eleanor Deeb, wife of JOSEPH F., Grand Rapids, Mich., died early in September. ED FLYNN lost his daughter, aged 28, in September. Please remember our deceased classmates and members of their families in your prayers. I had occasion to talk to PAUL FEHLIG in St Louis recently. Paul is well and fully recovered from a serious operation about a year ago. He is planning to be on hand next June. Paul and his wife have two boys and six giris. FRANK KOSKY sends regards to all '31eis from his home at Boynton Beach, Fla. REV. FRANCIS SULLIVAN, CSC, wrote that he could not attend Oct 10 due to illness. I wish to thank all those who retnmed cards to the Alumni Office last September. Jerry Crowley and Clarence Futter need volunteers for the local arrangements committee for next June which will soon be meeting with Mike Jordan, assistant alumni secretaiy. Please let me hear from you on plans for attendance. Best wishes to all for a happy holiday season. James T. Doyle 1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, HI. 60201 

'32 GOOFED 
This issue it is I who goofed. I've been 
in Spain and just returned on the deadline 
for copy. So here goes. A card from 
AL CULVER who relates he is getting 
over a lengthy illness and is semi-retired. 
He lives at 321 S. 6th St, Plymouth, Ind. 
Also a wonderful announcement of 
the marriage of Mrs. Frankie A. Trochim 
to our own WALTER A. KOLBY on 
Oct 4 at St Theda Church in Chicago. 
They are now "at home" at 38 Bayfoiook 
Lane, Oak Brook, 111. 60521. It wiU be 
old news, but Evelyn and I went to 
Philadelphia to spend Navy game weekend 
with ARCH and Mary DONOHUE. 
Then on Nov. 15, on to Chicago to see 
the OELERICHs, FRAN and DICK, their 
wives and the JIM IGOEs. 
That's all I can recall in a hurry. Please write—^the news is hard to come by. Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Road Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 RAINY, BUT HAPPY Although the weather was rainy and damp for the Purdue game, the great victory made the weekend a pleasant one. I stayed at the renovated LaSalle Hotel, now a Motor Inn, and met Judge MOB LEE and TIM TOOMEY '30 when I arrived Friday night We visited Rosie's, now the Sunny Italy Cafe, and later the University Club at ND. On the Saturday morning of the game, it rained so hard that we changed to water repellent clothes. The lobby of the Morris Inn was jammed as the putting green was too soggy for use. The first classmate to hail me was STEVE HOLLERAN, who drove in from Elmira, N.Y. DON LUSARDI and his charming wife had a little area roped off for the '33 group and we were soon joined by HUGH COLOPY and TOM GRIFFIN. Don's oldest son is teaching in a prep school and his yoifflgest is at Gettysburg College. As the Lusardi beer distributorship has been sold, Don has time to travel and promises to make our 40th reunion in '73, even though he missed the 30th and 35th. After the victory, I dried out with an "(Kd Fitzgerald" in the University Club and met BOB CAHILL '34 and his lovely wife, Mary. Bob has returned to his u»ial good health and thanked me for our good wishes and prayers. Later that evening, in the Morris Inn, I had an interesting chat with our busy classmate, ED STEPHAN, who has to seriously concern himself with the million-dollar deficit the University is running this year. 
Dr. BOB DONOVAN was at the Inn, but spent most of his time with FRANK 
LEAHY, who received several awards at game half-time. Frank was his usual acute and brilliant self, but was physically slowed by the ravages of leukemia. At a formal dinner in the Waldorf, NYC, on Dec. 8, he will be inducted into the Natiotud Football Hall of Fame. Bob says hell attend that ceremony which will honor the "Old Master." Because of the weather a '33 reunion was impossible but we did present our class president Judge MAURICE W. LEE, with a special Elks Centeimial Bottle commem­orating that Order's 100th Anniversary. Maiuie just completed a term as Grand Esteemed Loyal Knight Mrs. RAY BRANCHEAU sent a beautiful letter, thanking the '33 class for their sympathy. She said Ray approached death with the same enthusiasm as he lived life. He told her in his terminal days, "this has got to be the greatest experience a person could have." Ray also sent a message to Maurie Lee at the Elks Grand Lodge Convention in San Francisco and, although dying, had the kindness to ask a young neighbor to approach Maurie's Grand Esteemed Loyal Knight's chair during the convention and say "hello" for him. A grand gesture from an All-American who died that same month on July 28. Hildegarde Brancheau's address is: Mrs. R. J. Brancheau, 2022 Juniper, saver City, N.M. 88061. 
TOM (Tex) BEHAN was also at the convention as a representative from an Elks lodge in metropolitan San Francisco. Tex saw Maurie on the opening night and even had the '33 DOME with him. STEVE BANAS, after sending postcards from London, Aberdeen, and Thailand, returned to California and purchased a 24x60 mobile home to be near the boys' high school. Steve said they followed the sun on the trip and had five straight breakfasts in a 23-hour flight, including stops at places like Guam, Okinawa and Taiwan. DAN CASEY telephoned me from the Atomic Energy Commission, Argonne, III. Dan lives at Evergreen Park, III., and has a son who is a sophomore at ND. He was at the Purdue game but in the rain and crowd, I missed him. MAURIE DeWALD corrected me on my comment that he didn't see a classmate at the Cotton BowL He met BOB TOUNE in Chicago and they and their wives went to that great New Year's spectacle. To prove his point Maurie sent beautiful color prints of the group. At the Rally he saw ED STEPHAN, ED KRAUSE '34, HUGH DEVORE '34, and many others. In Hawaii three years ago, our Ft Wayne wanderer saw BILL HANIFIN and wife. Bill took the visiting Hoosiers on a wonderful tour of our new state. Last month on the way to Europe, Maurie talked to JACK HOYT. How about a Philadelphia call, Maurie? 
CHARLES (Fritz) HAFRON, my West Coast correspondent mentions that our San Francisco alumni start their Fall meetings with a luncheon at the St Francis Hotel. Fritz fondly recalls several years ago when he spent delightful afternoons in the Paramount Lot Commissary with NICK LUKATS and LARRY VEIAR. ALFRED (Josh) D'AMORA '35 haUed me at the Purdue game to get KITTY GORMAN'S address. JACK KENNEY'S son. Jay, a young lawyer in the Philadelphia office of TOM BYRNE '34, was very active in the gubernatorial campaign of RAY BRODERICK '35. Jack attended the Army game with CONAL 
BYRNE 36. 
If I missed you at the Purdue game, 

please blame it on the rain, not the 
"Old Fritz." A Meny Christmas and a 
Holy New Year to all! 
Charies A. Conley 
100 East Tumbull Ave. 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 ADDRESSES CHANGE 
Although this is Oct 20 and our football 
team has only idayed five games I must 
wish you all a Merry Chiistmas at this time. 
My report is due at ND on Oct 26 
and the ALUMNUS is scheduled for 
mailing the week of Dec. 14. I do hope 
this Christmas will be a joyful one for 
all and that the New Year finds you in the 
best of health. Perhaps ND will be 
fortunate enough to go to a Bowl game. 
I personally hope it is the Orange Bowl. 
If so and Cod willing 111 be there to 
cheer them on to victory. 
We do have some changes of address. Hiey are as follows: ROBERT J. STONE, can now be reached at 2515 W. Winston No. 1, Anaheim, Calif. 92804; EDMUND F. FITZMAURICE, 808 S. Ridge Ave., Arlington Heights, 111. 60005; WILLIAM W. HUISKING, Glyco Chemical Co., SI Weaver St., Greenwich, Conn. 06830; WILLIAM J. FLATLEY, Box 3120, Minneapolis, Minn. 55403; JACK B. GRIESER, 5626 W. Vienna, MQwaukee, Wis. 53216; REUBEN E. GRUNDEMAN, 80 N. Hudson Ave., Pasadena, Calif. 91101. 
JIM COONEY, Alumni secretary 

informed me by letter of the death of 
RICHARD E. McMONAGLE, on May 31, 
1970. Dick's address was 1202 Engineers 
Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114. Richard 
J. McMonagle, Dick's nephew, sent on the sad news to ND. 
I received the following letter from FRANK HONERKAMP on Oct 7 and I thought I should share it with all of you. "Have just received your fine report in September ALUMNUS. Keep up the good work. I do not get back to the campus as much as I would like to, especially since FRANK JR. graduated in June 1%7 but hope to make a game in 1971. Frank Jr's wife, Virginia, gave birth to their second son, Stephen, on July 23, which is Frank Jr's birthday. I have just returned from Hopedale, Mass., where my second son, Philip, married Debbie Regina. Debbie and Philip were classmates at Niagara U and graduated in 1969. Frank Jr. and Philip are both in business with my brother FRED '39 and myself. Regards—Frank W. Honerkamp." 
I read in the Chicago Tribune that the New York Knicks would get their world championship rings from J. WALTER KENNEDY, NBA commis­sioner in Madison Square Garden on the opening night of the season. The Knicks were to play Boston that evening. Enjoyed the story about BOB CAHILL in the September issue. Congratulations on your election to the Presidency of the College Athletic Business Managers Assn. I also want to congratulate BOB and his staff on the eSBcient job they do in getting out 59,000 tickets for each home game. CHARLEY QUINN of Delray Beach, Florida, requests we send get-well cards to JACK ROBINSON at Nassau Hospital, Mineola, Long Island, N.Y. 11501. JACK had a heart attack the end of September. He was preparing to see the Pordne game 
^e n he bec»ne iU. 
Following is a copy of a letter received 
from Chickie MALONEY: "Two years 
ago, coming thru Buffalo N.Y., GECHtOE 
and I stopped to call CY RICHARD 
and his wife to see if we could get 
together for dinner and teamed he had 
died some time past George was quite upset 
about this to think he had not learned 
of it through the ALUMNUS. Tliis came 
to me today, so 1 decided I had better 
get ti^t to it and notify you. George 
had a heart attack on July 23, and died 
instantly. He had just finked the last 
bead on his rosary and went out to check 
on our sixteen-year-old son, who had 
not come into the house from the 
neighbors'. He had the attack in the 
driveway. That morning he had attended 
Mass and received Holy Communion as be 
always did daily. He lived for eternity 
and always carried to his family the hi ^ 
ideals of Notre Dame. We would have 
been married 33 years on Sept 9. Living, 
we have a married daughter, Pattida 
Myers, with three children; a son George 
Peter III, married. At home sons Michael, 
18, Kevin, 16, a daughter, Mary Jo, 
14. It was a consolation to hear from Msgr. JAMES MOSCOW. I feel better just having told you about i t George left his family, employees and friends an example of how a truly Christian man should live and still had a very good time. Thank God, I still have a feeUng of closeness with him. I hope I never lose it." Sincerely—^Mrs. Geo. P. Maloney. Ed Moran 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, IU. 60639 

'35 SAVED BY AIRMAIL 
Am writing this column again just prior 
to deadline, Oct 26, starting out with 
a few "ifs": 
If it is in the Alumni Office on schedule (going to send it "airmail" this time— hang the cost!); if it is published "in the raw"—^without deletions; if it arrives in your home or office on schedule, just before Christmas; and if all my 27 faithful readers continue their adulation of this column and read this issue too—want to extend to you a very happy Christmas and a Merry New Year greeting. 
With the above preamble out of the way, want to express my thanks to the '3Sers who took the time to drop me a note: (wasn't exactly inundated—just mini-inundated!). BOB ROGERS sent his thanks for the job done by the South Bend Committee again last June. Also some pictures reflecting the good time had by all. Bob (and his wife also, 1 presume) has three sons who graduated from ND. One is a Special Agent with the FBI; another is with the Peace Corps in the Philippines; and the other is in the hotel and restaurant business-with Bob. Note to Bob: Since you are also an attorney—got a suggestion— get the other two in the restaurant business with you. With the present turbulent condition of the country you will have experts in your business. If the Peace Corps son can't keep the peace, the FBI boy can ferret out the troublemakers, and you can defend him in case of a lawsuit! Presume the third son knows how to cook and Mrs. Rogers can coordinate all of you. (I-U bet JIM McCRALETs last buck on diat) You're welcome to the advice. Bob. 
TOM FLYNN took time off from 
baskiiig in the sun in Honofadn to write me • dossier ibout his family. Wife Rnlh, met before P«ari Haifaor Day, manied in 1942, one dauijiter graduated from St Mary's in 1964 and now firing in New York. Dttwtiui son baths he practices law and serves as president of a Savings and Loan Assn.; engaged in dmrdi and cofflmmuty activities (also between sun baths); invites all "SSos to visit them if in the area, provided they time their visits before or after his sun baths. CHARLIE MAHER wrote from Rome (Italy, that is); couldn't make the reunion. Son Charlie graduated from ND in 1968HiBt escaping the "coafition" with St Mary's; now a designer with Ford. GEORGE FOSS came thtou^ with a letter including a description of the degrees his daughter, Maiy Ellen, has earned. She b the first female PitD. to graduate from the U of Illinois—Chicago Campus. Slie and her husband were also awarded post­doctoral researdi appointments at the U of Canterbury, Kent, England. The Foss's son, George, is assistant administrator at St Vincent's Hospital, Indianapolis, and their younger daughter, Barbara, is a senior at Ohio State. 
FR. WILLIAM J. McAULIFFE CSC sent me a note with a "Perpetual Membership" card he is peddling to support and educate seminarians, and care for the ill and retired priests and brothers. Only three bucks for a dozen with envelopes yet! Beautiful! Has a marvelous picture of the golden dome and Our Lady on the front Most important! Enrolled members share in all Masses offered every day by all Holy Cross priests throughout the worid. My first thou^t on seeing it was that MOOSE KRAUSE and BOB CAHUX's Class of '34 needed Father's "Golden Treasury" more than our class did. But, upon reflection, think our class could qualify too. Write father and order a supidy before it is too late at: Holy Cross Assn., Box K, Notre Dame, Ind.46SS6. 
TOM WELCH, the aass of '3S's most affluent fanner, called me just after he returned to Iowa from the Purdue deluge and just before he fed the chickens. Had plenty of info—jike the names of about ten '3Sers who attended the game. That's afl! Had a good idea, however. How about a mini-reunion in 1971 at the Michigan State game (or any other game you 27 readers suggest)? Only thing wrong with Tom's suggestion is that this column has been i^ugging the same kind of a deal for three years—with negative results. Suggest the newly elected VJ.'s try their persuasion on the dass, and earn at least part of their salaries; so, V.P.'s, I've thrown the challenge. How about it? Hate to make a veiled threat— but you can be rei^ced! Beware of our one-man sdection committee—^ANDY MAFFEI—he's tough! Sometime after you've paid your holiday bills, our new president, ED VAN HUISSEUNG, win issue his first epistle (or Gospd) to an of you. He has already started planning our 40th. Came to South Bend this week and captured an air-conditioned hall for 1975. Hie "Rock" too if you so desire—with travel from the h ^ via golf carts. In almost all the columns these past few years it has been my sorrowful task to report the death of one of our dassmates. For those of you vriio may not have read the last issue, want to report again the untimdy death of 
BOB LEE in September of a heart attack. Also, too late for my previous column, the death of the GEORGE DEMETRIO's son GEORGE, JR., in September. A graduate of ND in 1963, he was vice president of an investment company in Chicago. Condolences to Mrs. Lee and family and the Demetrios were extended by us and, once again, via this column in behalf of all the 3Sers. 
In conclusion, I have lost my list of the 27 "faithful." Would you please drop me a note so I can reconstruct it—and mention a few tidbits for the next column. I would be very grateful. William F. Ryan 1620 E. Washington Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46617 
'38 BURNIE'S BACK 
When Helene and 1 returned from a 
three-week jaunt to Europe where we lived 
with families in France and Spain as 
part of the CFM-FIC peace-thru­
fiiendship program, 1 expected to have a 
few letters, cards, etc., from you '38ers. 
Instead there was only a sad note from the 
Alumni Office that JOHN R. FIRTH had 
died August 3. I've asked FR. JOE 
RACE to say a Mass on behalf of the 
class for John, who was in Arts and 
Letters at ND and hailed from 
Brooklyn, N.Y. 
Also from the Alumni Office were a few notices that some of you had moved. CHARLEY DUKE went from New York to 924 Brookwood Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32207. Charley, I believe, has left Avis to resume airport counseling. JOHN FOLEY moved from SL Louis to 2712 Kathy Lane, Rogers, Ark. 72756, and HILLAIRE VAN HOLLEBEKE's new address in the Detroit area is 4 Fair Lake Lane, Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich. 
BERNARD FEENEY, class of '39 and later professor in ND Law School after the war, visited us while doing his thing as Miami's most forward and three-letter­word Realtor. The three-letter word is BUY. Bemie and his wife Adeline were in the first CFM group we formed right after the war and had us stay over with them last year on our trip to South America. Since we were gone during the early football games I haven't seen how many of you have been here, but DON HICKEY says he saw RAY MEYER, CHARLES BOROWSKI and OWEN KANE at the Purdue game. So all of you who have been rooting the Irish on in petson better drop me a line. I know I'll miss at least one more game as our daughter Barbara was married Nov. 11 to Larry Kowalewski who has just returned from Vietnam. Since she is the first of our tribe of 9 to leave, my wife thinks I ought to be there. And I'll just have to rely on you to send in some news— good news, bad news or Ag-news. Bumie Bauer 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 
'39 NO WIDE ANGLES 
The "extra wide angle lens" reveals a dearth of news material, since our best recent correspondents have not yielded to the "by-line" promise of your reporter. Two issues past, reference was made 
J. P. SULLIVAN'S apples as the best since Adolph and the old fieldhouse. While wandering through the beautiful country­side of eastern Massachusetts in mid-October I visited J. P.'s pacUiig plant in Ayer and verified the statement You were a most gracious host, J. P., and my sister, Mrs. W. V. Fichtel of Ashbumham, and I enjoyed the tour, and the samples. DAVE MESKILL, please note. 
On a more somber note, we expiess our sympathy to the widow of THOMAS 
E. McINTYRE. Tom passed away Jan. 7. Those of us who attended Reunion '69 will recall how much Tom enjoyed being back on campus. Mass in proper remembrance has been offered for his soul. 
Hope to see more of you at the post-game fiestas in the ACC after the Pitt, Georgia Tech and Louisiana State games. Again, Dave Meskill and JIM MOTSCHALL, please note .. . we missed you at the post-Army party. 
Once again, you are urged to channel newsworthy items to your lonely reporter .. . all of us depend on y'all. Joseph E. Hannan 1804 Greenwood Dr. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'40 QUIET ONES ENCOURAGED 
Whenever I admit to the pleasant situation of having adequate news to report an immediate hiatus of cards, letters and notes sets in. In spite of this usual result, I want to thank all who have indicated interest in this column with tangible evidence and encourage you quiet ones to prove my observation incorrect JIM DELAHANTY, CHUBBY GILLILAND and GERRY SAEGERT reported that Gerry and the TOM FLADs attended the Purdue game. Gerry saw FRANCIS (Bud) CENTNER and his son. Bill, in S.B. and joined JIM DANER for the Michigan State game. He also helped me in a somewhat embarrassing situation in identifying RALPH POSTULA as the one person in the reunion picture causing me trouble. I talked with Ralph and enjoyed his company during reunion, but must admit I drew a blank when studying the picture. Although he did not see him, Delahanty determined that JOHN D. SHEA is a trust officer with 1st National Bank & Trust Co. of Midland, Mich. Jim is seldom at a loss for words and was talking with one of John's employees at the Lido to ferret out this information for us. Chubby returned to Jefferson City due to the death of his sister Katie, and JOHN FINNERAN lost his father in Sept Let us remember them and all of the loved ones of the class of '40 in your prayers. 
REV. LAWRENCE L FERGUSON, 
J.D. is an active man in the Episcopalian activities in and around Dallas. His current address is Gaston Episcopal Hospital, 3505 Gaston Ave., Dallas 75246. He has been doing mission work, working with narcotic addicts, and has been admitted to practice before the Supreme Court He is certainly a busy and active man of '40. BILL C<H,EMAN writes from Calif, to tell about his move from Cleveland to LA. He has lesigoed as chairman of Wheelabrator Corp., to be more active with 'VINCE RYAN and their company known as Banner Metals. Both Bill and Vince had planned to attend the reunion, but just could not make it Start planning for 1975 right now so nothing can interfere. 
LOU BUCKLEY, class secretary of '28, reports that he saw his former corrector, PAT BANNON, after the Purdue game. Pat is with the FBI in Washington, 
D.C. Here is another man of '40 for CLIFF LETCHER to check out for us. CUtf did find DICK LYNG in our capital. As previously reported Dick has moved from Calif, to assume the duties of assistant secretary of the Dept. of Agriculture and is also a director of the Commodity Credit Corp. Cliff rates Dick as the highest ranking alumnus in the executive branch of our government. Dick had also intended to make our reunion, but was unable to do so because of pending legislation. Received word that BERNARD J. GUSHING has been named sales manager in the Rockville, Md., main office of Wolfe, Matan and Sheehan Realty, Inc. JIM DONOGHUE sent me the following clipping from "Navy Times": "Four jet-aircraft shot over the Marine Depot parade deck in a flyover honoring Col. DOUGLAS A. BANGERT, who retired after 30 years of active service on Sept 25. Doug was commissioned in 1941 and was credited with a confirmed torpedo hit on the first Japanese battleship sunk in WW II. He also landed the first American plane on Guam after the island was retaken in 1941. Doug and his wife, Dorothy, will reside in Jacksonville, Fla. His son, Douglas Jr. is presently in Vietnam as a Marine Corps artillery officer." 
In checking my reunion correspondence i discovered that I ne^ected to report about TERENCE J. SMITH. Terry was unable to attend the reunion because of hip surgery and sends his very best regards to all of his friends. He says: "If I were mobile, Liz (my old St Mary's friend, and the mother of our six children over 27 years of great happiness) and I would be present for our 30th." Terry's address is P.O. Box 2690, New Orleans, La. 70116 and I know he would enjoy hearing from some of you. ENRIQUE R. ARIAS has moved to Florida with a new address at Sugar Cane Growers Corp. of Fla., P.O. Box 666, BeUe Glade, Fla. 33430. 
That is it for this issue, but please keep sending me information because I do enjoy pulling this together for our mutual enjoyment Robert G. Sanford 1568 Beaver Ridge Dr., Apt B Dayton, Ohio 45429 
'42 NEW FAMILY GORDON T. BETHUNE has been 
appointed comptroller of Universal Atlas Cement Division of United States Steel. He joined U.S. Steel in 1942, but served in the U.S. Navy in 1945 and 1946. Gordon resides with his wife and four children at 8175 Brittany Place, Pittsburgh, Pa. DR. JOHN E. FAHRENDORF, who was at ND in 
1938-39, was a candidate for the Maricopa Coimty (Arizona) Junior College government board in an Oct 6 election. John is an optometrist We appreciate very much the nice letter from ANDREW CHERNEY wherein he reports he had a visit recently with FRANK QUINN in Indianapolis. Andy says he occasionally hears from BILL SPANGLER and TOM NASH, and said he would enjoy hearing from some of our other classmates. Andy's letter reads in part "My son will be a freshman at Law School at Ohio State this coining fall and I have a new 

MitlEFS 
Dr. Joseph P. Feldmeier M.S.'40, Ph.D.'42, a physicist who is vice-president and director of laboratories at the Franklin Institute in Phila­delphia has been appointed to ND's Advisory Council for the College of Science. Dr. Feldmeier received the University's Centennial of Science Award in 1965 and the Navy's Civilian Scientist Citation in 1948. 
The W. K. Kellogg Foundation, of Battle Creek, Mich., will join the ND Center for Continuing Education in an appraisal of life-long learning opportunities. The grant of $37,400 will permit the center to host a series of conferences on "Continuing Edu­cation and the University" at which leaders in education, communication and government will to assess, improve and extend continuing education opportunities at all levels. 
Clarence L. Martin, of Savannah, Ga., a first-year ND law student, is one of 35 black veterans in the nation receiving a Martin Luther King fellowship from the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. It provides a stipend for living expenses while a full tuition scholarship is provided by the ND Law Assn. 
Dr. John C. Reinbold has become associate director of ND's Center for Continuing Education and Larry G. Ballinger M.S. '70 has replaced him as assistant director. The appoint­ments were announced by Dean 
family of five children ranging from ages 13 through 25. At the passing of my wife, I married a girl that I had known since the 7th grade of junior high school back in Ashtabula, Ohio. We have been married since March of 1969 and have done a beautiful job bringing both families together." Our congratulations to this wonderful new family! 
When you are in need of Mass cards and spiritual bouquet cards, please remember the Holy Cross Fathers, Douglas Road, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. By making these cards available to the ND alumni, they help to support and educate seminarians and care for their ill and retired priests and brothers. The cards are beautiful and you will be proud to use them. 
May the peace and happiness of Christmas be yours today and every day throughout the coming New Year. May its meaning be deeper, its friendships stronger and its hopes brighter as it comes to you this year. Waiiam M. Hickey 5500 W. 73rd St. Chicago, lU. 60638 
Thomas P. Bergin. Dr. Reinbold has served as assistant director since 1965 and Ballinger joined the staff of the Center in 1967. 
Dr . Paul P. Weinstein, chairman of the ND department of biology, is president-elect of the American Society of Parasitologists. He will work closely with the president in developing the national professional society's programs in research and is to become president in January, 1972, for a one-year term. He also is chairman of the Parasitic Diseases Panel of the U.S.-Japan Cooperative Medical Science Program sponsored by the National Institutes of Health and the Department of State. 
Xhe proceedings of the meeting of Monastic Superiors of the Far East in Bangkok in December, 1968, where the death of Thomas Merton oc­curred, are included in a new book edited by John Moffitt and published by the University of Notre Dame Press. Financially assisted by a Rockefeller Foundation grant, "A New Charter for Monasticism" is issued under the auspices of ND's Institute for Advanced Religious Studies. In the introductory words of Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president at Notre Dame, the book describes "the first genuinely creative confrontation between Catholic and Oriental monasticism." Moffitt was a member of a Hindu monastic order for 25 years before his conversion to Catholicism. He is poetry editor and copy editor of America, a national Catholic weekly magazine. 
'43 JUNIOR ON GRIDIRON JOHN (The Reb) LANAHAN writes that he has just finished a term as president of the Jacksonville City Council and did his usual great job. A sports article in The Florida Times-Union, Jacksonville, entitled "It's Not Lanahan Who?, But Lanahan Where?" tells of the football versatility of John Lanahan, Jr., a 6-foot, 197-pound junior fullback at Florida State. In his football life "The Reb, Jr." has been linebacker, defensive back, quarterback, fullback, flanker, and halfback. Your secretary saw the North-western-ND game and met RENZO PESAVENTO. Renzo, 1845 Driving PI., Wheaton, III. 60187, is with the Nash Bros. Construction Co. of Chicago. A daughter, Anita, is a junior at St. Mary's. Your secretary spent a reminiscing weekend at the LEO LEWIS domain, 7 Ridgewood Road, St. Louis, Mo. 63124, and attended the Dallas-St. Louis NFL game. Leo is honorary consul general of Nicaragua at St. Louis, a position he has held for the past eight years. The Alumni Office reports that REV. THOMAS J. ENGLETON CSC has been appointed 
N^otre Dame's provost, Fr. James T. Burtchaell CSC, has been elected president of the American Academy of Religion, the largest professional society of religon in the U.S. Formed in 1963 as a successor to the National Association of Biblical Instructors, the 3,500-member group has the purpose of stimulating scholarship and fostering research. 
C/hairman of the Notre Dame Art Department, Dr. Thomas S. Fern, has been elected vice president of the Mid-American College Art Association. 
A nine-member Hall Life Board has been formed at Notre Dame. The board, authorized by the board of trustees, is responsible for approving hall constitutions, assisting individual halls in implementing these consti­tutions, ascertaining that each hall has a functioning government and judicial board, and, in general, assisting the Student Life Council "in providing for the good order, spirit, and morale of the residence halls." 
The 1970 Alcoa Student Design 
Merit Award has been won by a Notre Dame student, Robert W. Stowers, Milwaukee, Wis. A Master of Fine Arts candidate, Stowers designed an all-aluminum electric heating system for quick installation in low-cost housing. A sketch of the award-winning design and informa­tion on its operation was printed in a recent issue of Appliance Engineer. 
chaplain at .\ncilla Domini College and Convent, Donaldson, Ind. For the past two years he has taught history at the Catholic U. of Puerto Rico, Ponce, P. R. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry St. Chatsworth, HI. 60921 
'44 BROTHER AT ST. EDWARD'S Happy Holidays! May the joy and happiness of the Christmas season fill your hearts and overflow to all with whom you come in contact. May the new year of 1971 be an especially fine one and may you and your families be blessed abundantly with good health and much happiness. BRO. GERMAIN FADDOUL CSC has been appointed registrar at St. Edward's U., Austin, Texas. Bro. Germain, who holds doctorate degrees in English and Philosojrfiy from ND, has taught at St. Edward's since 1954. Previously he had been on the staff of St Thomas Aquinas School, Brooklyn, and was assistant principal at Dujarie Scholasticate at ND. 
During the 1966-67 school year he was a visiting professor at Al-Hikma U, Baghdad, Iraq. BILL (The Senator) BODDEN recently stopped in to see your secretary who unfortunately was away at the time. Bill, who lives in Portage, Wis., is a representative of the American Cancer Society and was in Green Bay for a meeting. In these hinterlands of Wisconsin seldom does a fellow classmate drop in.. Yours truly felt badly that he missed Bill. A welcome letter was received from TOM O'REILLY, Ft. Wayne, Ind. He missed seeing CREIGHTON MILLER who was in town this past summer for the annual Celebrities Golf Tournament. He did run into BEN MAMMINA outside the stadium at the Purdue game and from a distance saw PAT KILEY. He heard from BEN BRUNETTI who is the proud father of a baby girl born in September. 
The distaff side of the Class of '44 came to the rescue of your secretary. Stella Faught knew that her husband, fellow classmate BOB FAUGHT, was much too busy to write so she sent in the family news. Her letter was appreciated very much. If other '44 wives follow her lead, there will be no lack of news items for this column. The Faughts have moved three times in the past five years and are settled now in Short Hills, NJ. Bob is with the A&P Tea Co. and is vice-president of the Ann Page division. Two of their four sons are presently at ND—Jim, a senior, and Tom, a freshman. Their oldest son, John, graduated from John Carroll U. in June and their youngest, Mike, is a sophomore in high school. Joseph A. Neufeld Post Office Box 853 Green Bay, Wis. 54305 

'45 GETTING UP STEAM You get mighty rusty during a 10-year vacation, so it has been a slow start assuming the reins again of the class secretary. But my old systems are coming back to me, and by the next issue, we should be building up a little head of steam. Right now, only the slightest spark of news is available. I visited the campus for the Purdue game and was happy to meet with the son of PAUL W. SMITH, Paul Jr. Paul Sr. was my roomie during Sorin days, and was one of the really young seniors of that war period. I remember his going down to sijn up for the draft on his 18th birthday and already a senior in college! Paul, Jr. is taking after his dad in that he is good-looking, quiet, intelligent, and a very pleasant Southern gentleman from Atlanta, Ga., where his dad is president and owner of Southern Oxygen Supply Co. Heard from CHARLES (Chuck) SARTORE, visIUng Hopewell, NJ., but was unable to get him back at the phone number he left, so hope this serves as an apology to him, and invitation for him to contact me again. 
Went to a wedding recently and sat at a table with GEORGE BARISCILLO '44, who used to be secretary for his class. He thanked me again for the help I was to him in those early days . . . he's gone on to be president of his class and one of the University trustees. Nothing more to report this first time around, but you with news to tell, drop me a line. That's the only way I can relay it to the class. And we all want to 
stick together now more than ever. So write today. 
A. U. Lesmez 122 TuUamore Rd. Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
'47 WHERE ARE YOU? Class of '47. Did you graduate or drop out of Notre Dame in 1947? JACK MILES, our former secretary, woidd be shocked to know his friends and classmates have completely severed commimications with our class! Recently, your secietaiy returned to ND for the Purdue game— sorry to say didn't see any of the old gang. In '72 we will celebrate our 25th reunion so get with it and tune in with a few highlights about youiselves and families. 
(From Alumni Office) 

ROBERT E. SHADE has been named vice-president of operations of Inland Distributing Corp., of South Bend. Iidand, wholesale building material distributor, has its home office in South Bend and a branch in Fort Wajme as well as a facility in Elkhart for servicing the mobile home industry. 
Let us remember our departed classmates during the month of November! James J. Shea 35 Liberty Terrace Ashley, Pa. 18706 
'49 PLEA TO SANTA Saved again—this time by the Alunmi Offi:e! The only reason we find anything at all in the column space marked "^Hass of '49" is because the very effident Alumni Office sent me some newsworthy data culled from various news gathering sources. Thanks. Away we go. JOHN F. HOUSTON has been named division manager of Industrial Indenmity Co.'s Los Angeles office and will continue to serve as resident vice-president. And if time permits he may be able to watch the Irish complete the "regular" schedule lO-O. No to be outdone, JOSEPH G. ROSE JR., was elected to his initial term on the board of directors of John Blair & Co. Joe is treasurer of the company. He resides in White Plains, N.Y. with his wife and six children. 
Finally, another of our '49ers has gained distinctive honors. ROBERT LAWTON JONES, partner in charge of design and planning for Murray, Jones, Murray, Tulsa architects, engineers and {Maimers, has been elected to the College of Fellows of the American Institute of Architects. Only 957 members have been thus honored in the 23,000-member national organization. 
This writing is time for our Christinas issue, accordingly, my warmest wishes for a holy and joyous holiday season to all our class members and their families. To those who helped fill these columns in 1970 by sending notes and comments, my sincere thanks. I'd sure like to see Santa surprise me with some news data for a big start on 1971. At this point . . . Well, let's wait and see. Meani^e . . . Gee! National Champs! Leo L. Wesley 155 Driftwood Lane Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'50 SONS ON CAMPUS The Miami Oub had a welcome visit from DICK McGOLDRICK at our Father-Son Banquet before going back to schooL One of Dick's many projects at the present time is the Bay State Milling Co. At the St Louis American Bar Assn. meeting in August, while riding down the Mississippi on the Huck Finn motor vessel, I had a nice visit with JIM SWEENY (Chicago), BILL KIRCHNER (Newark), BILL BELL, JR., Superior Oil Co., Houston. ND was well represented in those who gave addresses at the A.B.A.: ED SCOBY '55 of Chicago, RAY TROY '34 of Newark and myself. 
On going with my son, John, for freshman orientation at ND this September, we had dinner one evening at Rosie's—still the same good food. Others of the past thought so too, as we ran into the following at Rosie's: the KLEES—DICK and Lee Iserson Klee and their ND freshman Rick, and Mary Beth, who is already accepted at SMC next fall; TOM and Marge O'GRADY and their Margaret, a freshman at SMC, and their Eileen and Tom, Jr. and Kathy. We may have a reunion at Rosie's next year with Mary Beth Klee, Kathleen O'Giady and Jane Thornton registering as SMC freshmen. (The Tower Room second generation.) Also at Rosie's were BILL and Edie O'CONNELL with ND freshman son, Mike and daughter, Kathy. 
Had a pleasant visit on campus with Joan Ernst CAMPANALE (Father Joe Kehoe and Father J. J. Leahy's former executive secretary). She and Gene have Beth, 16, Tony, 15, Carol, 13, and Charies, 
12. GENE teaches at ND and SMC. Father Tom McNally CSC (former editor. The Catholic Boy) is in charge of checking on Class of 'SO sons, including LEON HARTs BiU in St. Joseph Hall where Father Tom is. Father JAKE SMITH CSC, looks great and is busy as head of personnel for the Western Province, CSC. Father John O'Brien, looks as healthy and as youthful as ever and still recalls about every football play in his last ten years of visits to the Orange Bowl. (Hope we get to see ND there January, 1971.) 
Had some punch at the SMC freshman orientation—same formida as used 24 years ago—refreshing. Brother Conan looks great and needs an addition to the book store—business is so good. Brother Reynaud's big new post office built two years ago needs expansion. He claims it is due to the increased love life through the mails. Father TOM WALDRON CSC '52, is teaching high school in South Bend. The golf course is in good shape with the new fairway sprinkler system (fees $1.50 now—used to be 25 cents). Each student has a telephone in his room, and can have a refrigerator and stereo (same "noise" comes out of the stereos at ND and SMC). AU in all it's still the greatest university and with a little control of my son's Midwest allergies and a little diligence on his part, maybe he will stay there and weather the South Bend winters after growing up in the sunny south. 
R. G. THOMPSON has been promoted to chief engineer—Electrical Drives and Laboratory, Dodge Manufacturing, Division of Reliance Electric Co., Mishawaka, Ind. BOB TEUSCHER has been named general manager of Blair Laboratories, Inc., responsible for the marketing of the company's proprietary drugs. JIM CREAMER has been appointed assistant general sales manager—Automotive, for the new Departure-Hyatt Bearings Division of General Motors. The Boston Globe sports writer RAY FITZGERALD '49 was presented the second annual John 
B. Gillooly Memorial Award, voted by sports writers. KENNETH BAYLY, Tucson, Ariz., has been named to the Hall of Fame of Mutual of New York, the first Arizonian to qualify for the honor. FRANK WHALEN, Canton, N.Y., assistant professor of psychology at St. Laurence University, Canton, has successfully completed all of the requirements for a Ph.D. degree at the U. of Pittsburgh and received it in August He received an M.S. degree from Penn State and previously taught at Allegheny Community College, Wash­ington and Jefferson College, and the University of Pittsburgh. 
Father DON DERIVAUX recenUy preached a mission appeal in Iowa City, la., for the home missions in his native state of Mississippi. He is now pastor of Our Lady of Victory parish, Pascagoula, Miss. Lt. Col. BOB BUZAN is now chief of the Standardization Division of the 390th Strategic Missile Wing, Davis Monthan Air Force Base, Ariz., and is there with his wife and two children, Kathleen, 10 and Robert, Jr., 5. KEVIN O'SHEA has merged his insurance firm into the Metzger Corp., a member of the Brennan Financial Group in San Francisco. He is also a member of the board of directors of Metzger. Superior Court Judge TOM FISHER was reported under consideration for a federal judgeship. He was appointed a Monmouth County judge in 1964 and later elevated to the Superior Court. ART GOULET was honored last May by the Santa Maria Council SS3, K of C, as its Catholic layman of the year. In addition to practicing law, he is president of the 
South Bend area Board of Education which administers 26 Catholic grade schools and two Catholic high schools, and also is president of the Serra Club, which devotes itself to furtherance of Catholic vocations. 
Hope all of you and your families are in good health and keep smiling. If Ara gets in the Orange Bowl I hope to see some of you New Year's Day. Sparky Thornton 4400 Monserrate St. Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
'51 SAD NEWS Sad news this time. JOHN BUCKLEY died in Chicago on Oct 18 after a brief illness. Please pray for Teresa and the five children; the baby was one year old Oct 30. The family lives at 9818 S. Hamilton, Chicago, III. 60643. The poker club in particular will miss John—six of the old stalwarts were pallbearers. Luckily, FR. FRED BRICE flew in for an ordination Oct. II, and was able to visit John in the hospital Just heard GENE CHARIE died Sept 4. His widow and four children live at 1918 Hinchley Rd., Orlando, Fla. 32808. Please remember them in your prayers, also. Renee O'NEILL wrote to say she and the five boys are fine; you recall JOHN died two years ago. The twins started in college this fall. Tim is at ND, and Jeff is at the U. of Detroit Ask your own boys to look them up. 
PHIL FACCENDA is a dad again. Kathy delivered their second boy, Michael Anthony, on Oct 21. Congrats! 
GENE DEBORTOLI is spending a lot of time in Buffalo where a new basic oxygen furnace is going up. Gene menU'oned RAY JONARDl is with Westinghouse, working on the atomic power plants. He also sees JIM VOGEL, in business for himself in Pittsburgh. Please let me know where BILL FLYNN is coaching, or tell Gene directly. By the time you see this the reunion (June 10-13) will be six months away. Mark your calendar now. Jim Jennings Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, lU. 60604 
'52 SUNSHINE THROUGH RAIN GEORGE BROWN and his wife flew in for the ND-Purdue game and brought some sunshine through the rain clouds. George is doing great in Beaver Falls, Pa. where he will probably run for mayor. Our classmate is prosperous and influential as he stayed in the finest "diggin's" in South Bend—"Randall's Inn." PAT NEVILLE and wife, Joan, together with BERNIE LYNCH and his wife, Liz, drove in from Buffalo by way of Geneva, N.Y. Bemie thought it would be a good way to break in his new car so they drove up to Buffalo for Pat and Joan and proceeded to the ND-Army game. Flying in to meet them was LOUIS GLEASON with his wife, Nancy, from Danvers, Mass. Pat is still sporting his huge and beautiful moustache, which he manages to curl up on the ends. If he lived in Mishawaka, he would make an ideal picture of a Belgian pigeon raiser. Pat is still loaded with philosophy on the timely topics of the day and never without a comment or at a loss for words. Bemie Lynch (of the new car) is a furniture tycoon in Geneva. He and his wife have nine children to muster around the house, so they need a lot of furniture. Incidentally, Bemie does an excellent job of standing on his head unassisted after a steak dinner and nine beers. LOUIE GLEASON and his Irish colleen, Nancy, have two boys up in Danvers. Louie is teaching English (department head, of course) to a fine bunch of lads who, he says, never give him any problems. If you're aroimd the Boston Garden this year, check to see if Louie is there. He follows the hockey and basketball teams in Boston, as he has access to free tickets. 
At the reunion in the ACC after the Army-ND game, we ran into DICK DeGRAFF and his lovely wife. Dr. Dick DeGraff is now a professor of music at St Procopius College, where he continues to tantalize with his vibrant tones. JOHN M. FURIN is now general manager of Lau Products Ltd. in Ontario, Canada. His lovely wife and five children were all with him at the ACC. The children range from 7 to 17 and are all beauties. John is in charge of large air moving equipment and seems to like his new home town of Kitchener. Ole Jensen, honorary member of the class of '52 and head of maintenance at the ACC says there are 4,372 light bulbs in the ACC and Pat Neville checked the total as he was seeing double for a short whUe. JOE CELUSNIACK has quit the local chapter of the Black Panthers because he coiddn't stand the food at the 
last meetinf. Fat back and greens were not too bad, but the hog-maws were too salty. Joe says he's gnng back to the West Side Falcons' Club. 
ROBERT MORTENSON hns been named investor manager of the Weyer­haeuser TiusL FRED F. BANICKI, 108 Sonnyhin Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15237, has been appointed chief industrial engineer, Sted Divisioa of Stanon Sted Corp. He is active with the ND Cub of Pittsburg and area chairman for the ND National Fund Raising Drive. RALPH V. MYERS has been appointed merchandising specialist for the fiill line of Dodge trucks with Harold Medow, Inc. of South Bend, Ind. Ral|A is president of the South Bend Symphonic Choir and program chairman of area classes presenting the National Safety Council's Defensive Driver Course. JAMES F. MUTSCHELLER, associate general agent and chartered life underwriter with the Baltimore-Mar^and agency of The National Life Insurance Co. of Vermont has won membership in the firm's 13th Presidents' Club. 
William B. King 613 E. Domnoyer Ave.' South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'53 TWO MULvranxs By way of belated introduction and explanation, you should know that the aass of '53 has two Mulvihills within its ranks. DON, originally from New York, obtained a liberal arts degree, despite the ignominious beginning of his residency in St Ed's Han as a freshman. I came from Grand Rapids, Mich., started in liberal arts and switched to commerce. To straighten out further confusion, thoui^ registered in heaven as JOHN T., many refer to me as Jerry and some unflattering allusions not now pertinent After two years in the Army, I settled in Grand Rapids and worked at and in the family retail auto business. In 1962, with one wife and 3^ths children, returned to Notre Dame and obtained a law d^ree in 196S. Since then have been practicing law in South Bend with a 20-nian firm at the address below, same wife and now five childfeiil 
DON MULVIHILL wrote to inform of PAT DREWs death (see earlier cdumn), in Washington. Don is resident partner in the Washington office of CahOl, Gordon, Sonnett, Reindel & Ohl, having moved from N.Y. "temporarily" in 1960. Don co-authored an extensive three-volume report to the Federal VioleiKe Commissioii, a gigantic under­taking and one of which all of us can be justly proud. He also said that be, on occasion, sees JOE CLANCY, WALTER MURPHY and JIM WELCH, neighbors of his and all of whom also practice law in Washington. Thanks for the note, Don, and hope that the explanation respecting our identities did not come too late to remove any guilt respecting the column . . . 
Saw JOSEPH O'NQL, a St Paul lawyer and member of the ND Natioiud Alumni Board the weekend of the Purdue game. Joe is running for the Minnesota state senate, is active in bar association work, in addition to rearing a good-sized family. He reports that both ROGERS boys (JIM and JOE) are weU and busy. BOB GLEASON is still representing a sporting goods outfitters and 


Cmigratg 
MERLE E. RUHL JR. '50 has advanced to the post of manager-corporate taxes for Interstate Brands Corp., a national bakery food firm with headquarters in Kansas City, Mo. Ruhl joined the accounting department of the company in 1956. 

EDWARD J. FLEMING III '52 has been elected vice-president of the Milton Bradley Co., of East Longmeadow, Mass. He joined the firm in 1959 after serving in the Air Force during the Korean conflict. He resides with his wife and five children at 36 N. Circle Dr., East Longmeadow. 
JOHN E. PORTA '53 is the new president of the Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, Ohio. Since 1966 he had been vice-president of First National City Bank, New York. After graduation from the Harvard Business School in 1955 he served for three years in the Navy. 
ALVIN J. DONIUS '54 is the new director of sales and marketing for Instron Corp., Canton, Mass. Instron is a producer of precision testing equipment used in the material sciences. He has been manager of new business for Inmont, Inc., New York, and previously held several marketing management positions. 
JOHN J. KELLY '56 has become executive director of Manufacturing at the Bell Aerospace Division of Textron, Buffalo, N.Y. Kelly joined Bell in 1966. He has served in the Air Force and has a master's degre: in business administration from St. John's U. 
RICHARD J. WALTZ '58 and MSME '60 has been named a senior performance engineer in the fossil power generation department at the Babcock & Wilcox Co.'s division headquarters in Barberton, Ohio. He joined the company as a full-time engineer after working three summers in engineering. 
he sees him. Joe thought RAY DITTRICH is still at the Cargill Grain Company in "the cities." Though he hasn't seen him, PAT O'CONNER is still ranching in South Dakota. Sees CHUCK RITTEN's brother, PETE '55 and Chuck is still seated on the Chicago grain exchange. JOE BUCKHEIT called before the Purdue game to report that he and DICK WAGNER, both with spouses, were coming to the Purdue game. Dick is in Buffalo and Joe is in Indianapolis. Joe was to have a Sunday evening party in Indianapolis and mentioned that JOHN THOMAS O'BRIEN, BILL STUHLDREHER and JOE DESAUTELS were to be present. Grumpy RALPH ARGEN, M.D. from Buffalo also called and said he was coming to the Purdue game. Sorry I missed these folks, but couldn't get tickets so didn't even go to the campus and it rained to beat the band. DON DORINI was also in town and hope to see him later in the year at some other games. JOHN LUX wrote to say that ART HANKENS is a County Judge in Carlisle, 111. and promised to have Art get in touch respecting his acUviUes. Art? . . . JOHN MOLENDA left our South Bend area and now lives at 2436 LaFey, Pontiac, Mich, with his wife and three children, serving as director of publicity for the Orchard Lake (Michigan) School System. Alumni OiSce reports that MARK E. CONNELLY is a Lt. Col. and staff prosthodontist at the Pentagon, having completed a two-year residency at Walter Reed. This caps (pardon the pun you dentists) his 1960 
D.D.S. degree from Penn and his service in Vietnam. JOHN L. DAYTON, wife, five sons. 111 Arthur Ave., Clarendon Hills, 111. is now midwestern regional sales manager (in Des Plaines) for PPG Industries, Coating and Resins Division, for whom he has worked since 1953. JOE GORES, bless his heart, responded to the plea for information and he writes: DENNY MORAN is now a professor at Arizona State, Tempe teaching English, though Denny, his wife and young daughter are on a year's sabbatical in Europe. The last he heard, PAUL ANDERSON was an officer in the Air Force teaching English at the Academy in Colorado. LES HALSEMA and his wife and several kids live in Diamond Bar, Calif, and Les works in PR with Litton Industries. Joe then writes about his fascinating career since leaving the campus. After the Army and a variety of jobs, he is now self-supporting as a free-lance writer, lived for a year (1957) in Tahiti, was in Kenya, East Africa, '62-'64 where he taught in secondary schools, traveled 10,000 miles in Africa and is now writing fuU-time with his wife, Susan, as his secretary. To his credit, 70 short stories and anthologies, one novel A Time of Predators (Random House hardcover and Ballantine paperback). Doubleday will publish his history of marine salvage, the product of two years of research, some time this spring. He has in the works two more novels, a lot of short stories and a couple of anthologies. In addition to thanks for writing, Joe Gores, let me say your letter was fantastic, and write again. 
Hie local paper aimounced that JOHN PECK (Ph.D.) is now teaching at Indiana U., South Bend campus. John was formeriy head of the Economics Department at St. Mary's and he had also worked for the Bendix Corp. here in town. The Oct 7 issue of the Detroit Free Press announced that BRIAN KELLY was to play the lead in Columbia Pictures' adaption of "The Love Machine." Congratulations, Brian. GENE SULLIVAN started another season as the assistant ND basketball coach in what promises to be a banner year. If the team comes to your area, turn out and say hello to Gene. Don't forget, if there are good high school prospects in your area, call Gene at the Athletic Department, and let him know. Saw HARRY DURKIN's brother a few weeks ago and he was quick to inform me that Harry's refreshment parlor is a very swank supper club and that Harry was doing well with it and his law practice. 
For a graduating class of more than 900, you all seem to be in the silent majority. How about joining the fading minority and writing to me of your whereabouts, activities and those from the class that you see from time to time? Tis no fun struggling and then coming up with less than a representative column. John T. MulvihiU 645 First Bank Building South Bend, Ind. 46601 
'54 SHOWED OEM! 
It didn't seem possible that a game could be more enjoyable than the 48-0 win over Purdue but the 24-7 win over Missouri was. The SL Louis press had eyes only for Missouri and the crying afterwards just added to the sweet taste of success. The easy Missouri money didn't hurt things either. Outside the stadium I ran into FRED MANN and his wife. Fred looked like he could have gone the whole 60 minutes. Heard from JOHN D. LIBERT, now with the Philadelphia Evening and Sunday Bulletin and residing at 531 Kenmore Rd., Merion, Pa. 19066. His "on again off again" ticket need trick had me confused for a while but it worked out OK. 
The reunion party after the Purdue game was great as usual. Many thanks to GENE HENRY and DICK PILGER and their wives. One of the things that make the whole idea of yearly reunions is that every once in a while someone shows up for the first time. This year it was FRANK WISNESKI and BILL WOODWARD. Frank's a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force at the Pentagon. Bill's with Rex Chainbelt and lives in Green Bay, Wis. It was great, guys, but 16 years is too long. Would you believe one of the last of the very last holdouts, DICK ANTON finally crumbled under the pressure? Bonnie and Dick were married on Aug. 15. Boimie's a U. of Pittsburgh grad and an R.N. Dick's practicing law in Pittsburgh. Garbled notes read "Newfoundland Harvest Moon" which I assume means Dick met Bonnie in Newfoimdland where she was harvest moon queen. It's hard to take coherent notes with guys like BOB WRIGHT falling aU over the room distracting everyone. It must be said in Bob's behalf that he was respectable for the first hour. Another note reads "BOB (Eddie Cantor) PODEN wins smart aleck of the year award" (only my note has a three-lettered substitute for aleck) for his bad deportment for an entire weekend. If it weren't for their wives and their good friends whom we enjoy so 
much we migfat be forced to take restraining action. Even DICK. CASTELLINI, you remember "Wfld Dick," was a mnd-mannered tentkman in their company. Actually Podeo wasn't so bad. I guess it was Bob Wrist's 116 strokes on the ND Golf Course that shook him up so. 
JOE JOYCE is running for sUte senator in Iowa on the Republican ticket Good luck, Joe. TONY MANDOLIN was in Hawaii and couldn't make the weekend. Ida and TONY TRIGIANI from Big Stone Gap, Va., were there. They have seven children and Tony runs a garment complex producing the "Miss Virginia" line. Chuck Levesque is an honorary '54er making his 6th consecutive reunion party with MIKE CELESTE. Chuck went to Brooklyn Polytech. CHARLIE SPICKA flew in for the game and party and flew out again. Chariie's so much fun he's unreal. Hope it's a yearly thing. Buddy. JERRY (Finsk) FINNEY flew in also, with his dad, for the game. He was busy trying to set up a poker game for our 20-year reunion. JOHN DANIELS from Washington, D.C., is living in nearby Annandale, Va., is married, has four girls, two boys and is with a software firm after putting in 13 years with the FAA. John hadn't changed a bit—had a drink in each hand. PAUL KRAUSE is still practicing law in Toledo and has three girls and three boys. And you should have seen JOHN WElGAND's muttonchops. They met at his eyeballs. Beautiful! 
There were loads of other classmates: EMIL (Moe) BERG, ED MRAZ, BILL REYNOLDS, WALT WAGNER, BILL MORLEY, BOB ETTLEBRICK, GENE HOWLEY, DICK ASH, BOB KRC»>, HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, BOB CHICKEY, ED MILOTA, TOM MOORE, DICK EHR, DAN MUNSON, PHIL DOELL, J. D. MADIGAN, JOE MESEC, JERRY KEATING, and many others. Now's not too early to plan for next year. Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year 1971 to you all, especially Bob Wright and Bob Poden on whom I practiced my Don Rickles routines above. They really weren't half that bad. Milton J. Beaudine 21 Signal HiU Blvd. East SL Louis, 111. 62203 
'55L FKOM BAR TO WINE From Dallas, Tex., came a long, newsy letter from MARK TOLLE. After passing the Texas bar exam in 1955, Mark served a stint with the Air Force where he remained six years as a flying officer in Korea and Japan, and as a judge advocate. In 1960, he joitied Justice Tom Clark's firm in Dallas working on antitrust matters. Our Texas classmate found this work confining, so in 1962 he entered the life insurance business as an agent with Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Dallas. In this field he has been phenomenally successful, qualifying for the Million Dollar Roundtable every year since 1962, and obtaining his CLU designation in 1968. Presently Mark is assistant to the general agent of the Dallas agency for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. Always a good handball player, Mark is now rated a Class A player from Dallas and has played, and won in several major tournaments in the Southwest He possesses a unique wine collection, an interest dating back 
to Us duldbood. He has become a topffight wine taster, training under Victor Wdowiak, win is the Cdlar Master for Neiman-Maicus Department Stores in Dallas. He bdongs to a private wine-tasting club iHiidi meets and improves their skills twice a month. Once an avid flier, Mark has had to foresake his flying for his basy insurance career. Married to the former Tammy Marietta of St Mary's CoO^e, he is now the father of two duldtea Occasionally he sees ANDY WALSH '53 w«en he visits from St Louis. He hopes to drop in to see BOB LEMENSE during one of several annual trips to Milwaukee. Good luck to you, Mark, on your wine tasting! 
Resettled again in South Bend after 13 years in CaGforaia is JIM ROEMER, practicing with CHUCK ROEMER '53 and CHARUE SWEENEY, JR. '64 in the general practice of law. Jim's fondness for Northern California continues, however, since be retains business cotmections there and returns four or five times annuaOy. Mary Ann and Jim are the parents of four boys and a giri. "As a family we are invidved in mmierous outside activities invcdving our interest in improvement in communications between people, especially those who are troubled and in other ways less fortunate." I can't think of a better way for a lawyer to practice law, Jim, and all of our classmates wish you continued success in these endeavors. John P. Coyne 810 National Bank Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
'St ROCLICKING SUCCESS As those of you who attended know, our party after the Purdue game was a roilicking success. My special thanks to aU «4io hdped make it so. ED COSGROVE and I attended the game and festivities with our Dads and it's difficidt to say who enjoyed themselves more—they or we. Among these also attending were BOB O'MALLEY, who's practicing law in Washington, D.C., with the firm of Covington * Burling; MOCE KILEY and hb wife, CaroL Mike still is practicing law in Marion, Ind., and deserves a "will power of the month" award—he's lost ISO pounds. Also in attendance were AL PARILLO, who's the father of three giris and is in advertising in New Yori^ City; DAN DEVINE and wife, Barbara, iriio are the parents of five sons and two dau^ters. Dan is practicing law in Detroit RENO MASINO and BOB RICHARD attended also. CCHtD DiRENZO wasn't able to make the reunion. Cord's now a full professor in the Sociology Dept at the U. of Ddaware and he lectured at Sophia U. in Bulgaria in August 
The roster of '56 bachdors is sloiriy but surdy diimfrishing—on Oct 18, in Chicago, HL, NICK MAVIANO took as his bride, Suzaime Mary DiDomenico. Congratulations Nick. Lt CoL ROBERT 
W. MCHICHES is now commander of the Fleet Operationd InteDifence Training Center at the Naval Air SUtion, Norfolk, Va., fallowing his return from a year in Vietnam. CHARLES G. CONWAY has graduated from the Pacific Coast Banking School at the U. of Wash., Seattle, and is employed by the Southern Calif. First National Bank at San Diego. JAMES HLAVIN has been named north central regional sales manager for the Stouffer Foods Div. of Litton Industries. Jim will be based in Detroit. JOHN MANION has been appointed regional sales manager for CCM Professional Magazines, Inc. John's advertising sales responsibilities will include accounts in Ohio and Michigan and his office will be in Chicago. BILL BRISICK is living in Encion, Calif, and worlcing for publishers, Hoyt, Reinholt & Wilson. 
It isn't too soon to start thinking about our ISth reunion scheduled for June 10-13 of '71. More about this later. Eugene P. O'Connor 668 Hlicott Square Bldg. Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'58 NEWSY CARDS ASKED Although at the time of writing these wishes are somewhat premature, by the time you read them they will be quite timely, so Best Wishes for the Holiday Season and a Happy and Prosperous New Year! The news for this issue is quite meager so why not send us a card at the time you are sending out your holiday greetings and give us a word as to your activities? USAF Maj. RICHARD A. DiCAMILLO, now chief of operations for the Aerospace Rescue and Recovery Center at Eglin AFB, Fla., has been decorated with the Distinguished Flying Cross for aerial achievement in Southeast Asia. DR. FRANK J. FEIGL has been advanced from assistant professor to the rank of associate professor in physics, at Lehigh U., Bethlehem, Pa. He received his Ph.D. from the U. of Pittsburgh and did postdoctoral work at the U. of Illinois. 
DR. THOMAS P. MEIRINK of Drs. Fritsch, Hurd, Meirink and Simmons, Associated Orthopedic Surgeons, LTD, was guest speaker in September at Carmi Township Hospital, Carmi, III. for the Carmi Medical Society. He presented a description with slide illustrations of "Rush Pix Fixation of Supracondylar Femoral Fractures," a technique he has developed. 
JOHN J. GAGLIARDINI, 1814-lOth St. West, Kirkland, Wash. 98033, dropped us a note reporting on a class reunion for the Western Washington area held Oct 3 in Bellevue, Wash. Participating in the event were JAMES DAILEY, JOHN PRUSS, FRANK MOORE, DR. BILL STAHL. Others in the Western Washington area are MIKE HERT, TED COLLINS, DR. JOHN KENNEDY, BILL HERBER and WILFRED JONCAS, PETER O'CONNOR, FRANK FOLEY, VIC AUSTIN, GABE GILLOTTL Arthur L. Roule 1610 West Fifth St. I.aPorte, Ind. 46350 
'59 NEW JOBS TAKEN THOMAS ROSS WILKINSON (Ph.D. Bacteriology from Washington State U. in Pullman, Wash.) holds an assistant professorship in the Dept. of Bacteriology at South Dakota State U., Brookings, 
S.D. 57006. Ross and Judy have three children, Michael Douglas (3'/4), Lisa Carol (IVi), and James Ross (3 months). Capt. RONALD H. BLAKE, USAF, a data automation officer, is with the 37th combat support group at Phu Cat Air Base, Vietnam. JACK DOLAN has been appointed administrative assistant of the North Haven (Conn.) Schools. 
GEORGE ROSS finally has a job! After 
ordination to the deaconate in August, George began his parish assignment in the "Nutrition Capital of the World" (Battle Creek, Mich., which he feds is an "enjoyable city . . . polluted enough to be relevant, close enou^ to South Bend to be meaningful, small enough to be a community and far enou^ from Lansing to be personal"). George will be at St. Phifip parish until Easter, I97I, when he will finish up the academics at the seminary before ordination to the priesthood. MARK SHIELDS, on leave from his post with the Democratic National Party, engineered JACK GILLIGAN's '47 successful campaign for the governorship of Ohio. Also contributing to the political sphere is John Beliveau, former mayor of Lewiston, Maine, and now the county (district) attorney. Next stop—governor of Maine! John and Mary have added child No. 3, Katherine Ann Beliveau (last spring). I spent two ideasant days with John's sister Pat and her husband, JACK THOMAS. Jack is with Investors Diversified Services in Minneapolis and chairs the Alumni Schools Committee for the Notre Dame Club of the Twin Cities. Jack accompanied me for two days as we visited high 
schools and academics in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, meeting potential applicants for "the big ND." In my recent travels for the Admissions Office, I have been able to visit with CARL NOELKE (now entrenched with the San Francisco Opera Company), DAVE KELSEY (who represented the ND Club of Albuquerque at the regional Alumni Senate meeting in San Francisco) and JOHN PETER MORAN (who assisted me with high school visitations in Phoenix). 
Sandy and PETE HACKETT have a new son, Andrew Michael (August, 1970). DAVID A. MILLER is Administration Manager of IBM's Data Processing Division in Houston and has a private law practice (2152 Watts Road, Houston). DICK TRANT spent the Purdue weekend on campus, living on the third floor of Sorin Hall, comparing today's Sorinites with those in the late '50's. Father LARRY CALHOUN CSC had two undefeated fencing teams at Notre Dame High School, Niles, lU. His varsity team was 15-0 and his frosh-soph squad (8-0) enjoyed their second straight season without a defeat Two of Larry's fencers went to the National Championships in July and Coach Mike DeCicco has two of Larry's graduates on the famous ND fencing team (a soph who is ranked 6th in the U.S. in foil, and a freshman). Larry also teaches Earth Science and is very active in the National Fencing Coaches Association. Dean PETER SALSICH (recently on campus recruiting students for the St Louis U. School of Law), JOHN BOYCE, E. J. CUNNING­HAM, TONY RIBAUDO, BILL MCDOWELL made the journey from St Louis to Columbia for the Missouri game. Pete saw JOE BROCATO (Memphis) at the game and reports that JIM (Shaky) LEWIS and JACK CONNELL are now living in the St Louis area. Living in new areas are: MADDEN SHEED Y (Adelphi, Md.), GARY VONDRAN (Sunnyvale, Calif.), RAY WHELAHAN (Virginia Beach), Capt GEORGE D. WILSON (Sumter, S.C.), JOHN JOSEPH FITZPATRICK (Great Neck, New York), FRANK PRANTIL (LaJoUa, Calif.), GABRIEL 
GlLLOrn (Saver Spring, Md.), JIM OTTO (Toledo, Ohio), JOHN T. MILOTA (Arlington Heights, Ul.), DR. MICHAEL 
R. SMITH (Mercer Island, Wash.), GERALD BAUGH (Wauwatosa, Wis.), JOE FULLEM (Newtown Square, Pa.), EDWIN MAY (Stevens Pt., Wis.), JIM PIOWATY (Chicago, lU.), DR. JOHN A. FOCHTMAN (Petoskey, Mich.), JIM ROBBINS (Palmyra, N.Y.), and JOHN THEODORE MERLOCK (Walpole, Mass.). 
The sympathy of the Class is extended to ARMIN GUMERMAN whose father died in September. Joseph P. Mulligan Admissions Office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'61 COMMODORE CURRAN 1 am sorry I am going to have a short article this time since I am not getting very much information through the mail ways. KEVIN E. CURRAN is halfway through a two-year tour as chief of eye, ear, nose and throat department U.S. Naval Hospital, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It sounds like Kevin has it real rough in that he has his wife, Mary, and son, Mike, with him, and he is commodore of the Gtmo. Bay Yacht Club, chairman of the Intercommand Sailing Committee and captain of one of the hospital's tennis teams, and he does manage to find time to practice some medicine and eye surgery- Kathy DONLAN writes and tells me that her husband JACK received his M.D. from the U. of Rochester in 1968 and then completed a year of internship there in 1969. After interning, he entered Public Health Service as a general medical officer and is now working with the Navajos in Chinle, Ariz. The Donlans have two sons, Brian and Kevin. Thanks for the info, Kathy. JOHN SNYDER has been granted a one-year sabbatical from Mohawk Valley Community College, Utica, N.Y. to work towards a doctorate in business at Syracuse U. John is asst prof, in the business department at Mohawk, received his BBA at ND and his master's in accounting at Ohio State. 
PAT CALLAHAN was promoted to asst V-P of the Bank of the Commonwealth last January and is in charge of the purchased funds department here in Michigan. Pat was also elected a U.S. Jaycee director from Michigan and sits on the board in Tulsa, Okla. Pat is also treasurer of the Michigan Association for Emotionally Disturbed Children in Oakland County. 
TONY VIERLING is manager of Honeywell's Edinet Program. Edinet Education Instruction Network, is designed to provide systems, software and support to the academic user at a minimum cost Tony is located in Minneapolis, Miim. 
I would like to mention to keep in mind our reunion next summer and plan on getting your bodies back to the campus for a really great weekend. Let's send some info for the next article too. Bill Henne^an 30556 Scrivo Dr. Warren, Mich. 48092 
'62L A RING FROM FBI LARRY MANDYCK and Lillian and 
daughter Maura came up to the city for a vacation a couple of weeks ago. 
Although their time was quite filled, Lany did get a chance to give a ring and say that he is still with the FBI and living in Nashville, Tenn., although he is looking forward to returning to Atlanta, Ga. He also made it back to the Purdue game and got to see several members of the Class. Although it's only Oct 25, the ALUMNUS says that it's time to extend our Holiday Greetings to you and yours. So, from Marge, Erin, Keith and me Merry Christmas and for the New Year: "May the wind be always at your back." Paul K. Rooney 60 East 42nd St. New York, N.Y. 10017 
'63 CHEERLEADING? Note from CHUCK HARTMAN in Hightstown, NJ., where he's working for Johnson & Johnson in new products. Chuck has four children now. Nice note also from PETE CERROW, from Colorado Springs where he is teaching at the AF academy after tours in Vietnam and Korea. DAVE SCHICK located at Livermore Falls, Maine, where he's now teaching science and coaching cheerleading!? TOM GORDON writes from Kansas City, Mo. Tom finished his Army years as a captain in Italy, where he also got married. DICK TUSHLA and DAVE STEGMAN both finished up their residencies and are now with the Army. Both are headed for Germany for three years (some guys have all the luck). Address: 209th General Dispensary, APO 
N.Y. 09165. JOHN SKEESE newly married and living in North Hollywood, Calif., where he's teaching and coaching at ND high school. JOHN PASTORE wrote in Japanese from Hiroshima, where he's doing medical research with the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission. His work deals with delayed effects of radiation from the bombs dropped 25 years ago. John will be back at Yale in summer 71, with wife and three sons. Rev. EDWARD A. MALLOY is concentrating on Social Ethics in the Ph.D. program at Vanderbilt U., in Nashville, Tenn. 
MICHAEL P. REGAN visited the campus in September with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. CORNELIUS F. REGAN JR. '27L. Since receiving his A.B. at ND, Mike graduated from Union U., Albany, 
N.Y. Law School in 1%7 and was admitted to the New York Bar. He has served as associate counsel to an Albany trial firm and as assistant district attorney in Albany County. At present he works in Amsterdam, N.Y. in the legal department of Mohasco Industries Inc. Tom Hotopp 
55 Churchill P., R.D. No. 1 Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 
'65 THE YOUNG LAWYERS TOM HOGAN is one of the hard working young lawyers in Washington, 
D.C. After receiving his J.D. from Georgetown Law School last year, Tom joined the D.C. law firm of Pledger and Mahoney. He reports that JOHN GEAREN, a recent graduate of Yale Law School, is now serving as a law clerk for a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Another law grad, STEVE PEPE, has taken a sabbatical from the Neighborhood Legal Services in D.C. to enter a free graduate study program in Europe. WALT DESMOND has received his Ph.D. in 
New vic&-presideiit in the tnist department of the First National Bank of Chicago is GEORGE W. VANDER VENNET JR. '59, LL.B. '62. He had been named a trust officer in 196S and assistant vice-president in 1968. He resides with hb family in Wilmette, 111. 
DR. JAMES F. RAINEY '61 has been named assistant dean for under­graduate programs in the College of Business at Michigan State U., East Lansing, Mich. He received a JD from the U. of Chicago in 1964, joined the Michigan State faculty the next year and received (he MBA degree there in 1966. 
RICHARD J. GILGAN '62 was 
recently elected assistant vice-presi­
dent in the international banking 
department of the First National 
Bank of Chicago. He received an 
MBA degree from the U. of Chicagp 
Graduate School of Business in 1968. 
JOHN M. RAMMEL '63, '64L has been promoted to the position of trust officer at the First National Bank of Chicago. Rammel, who had been assistant trust officer, is a member of the Chicago and Illinois Bar Associa­tions. He resides at 1360 N. Sandburg Terrace, Chicago. 
THOMAS H. SCHNITZIUS '64 is now vice-president of Texas Capital Corp., the investment subsidiary of TeleCom Corp. Until his recent elec­tion he had been senior financial analyst. After graduating at ND he received a law degree from the U. of Texas. 
RONALD R. CAULEY '65 advanced to assistant vice-president in the com­
mercial banking department of the First National Bank of Chicago. He joined the bank in 1967 and had been assistant cashier. Cauley received an MBA degree from the U. of Michigan in 1966. 
\ 35 
biochemistry from UCLA and is now 
working as a post-doctoral fellow at the 
U. of California, San Diego in La Jolla. JOHN STEPHEN BALCONI is in charge of inspection and finishing for Coming Glass in Harrodsburg, Ky. John and wife, Michaelene, have a two-year­old daughter, Kathryn Ann, and a son, Michael Stephen, bom in August. 
After teaching two years in philosophy at St Ambrose College, TOM KERNS, along with wife, Kathy, and three children moved to Oregon. Tom currently is teaching philosophy at the U. of Portland and concomitantly working on a PhD. at Marquette. With Tom at the U. of Portland is LEN PAOLILLO, who is teaching in the sociology department Len has a Ph.D. from Florida State, a wife, Bonnie, and three children. Tom also would appreciate any news as to the whereabouts of BOB GAENSSLEN and FRANK MELLENO. 
JIM GIAMBALVO was married in June to Mary Thomas Paine of Wilmette, 
111. His wife is a graduate of Randolph-Macon Women's College in Virginia. In the wedding party was BILL PIEDMONT, who is married and living in Connecticut while working for IBM. MARTIN STAMM who received his MJV. in '66 has been named assistant to the dean of the College of the Holy Cross, Worcester, Mass. In addition he will serve as the assistant dean for the Class of '72 at the coUege. KEN GEOLY completed his first year of medical residency in July, was drafted and at the moment is on his way to Vietnam. Ken and his wife, Berney, have three children. Upon completing his military obligation Ken plans to specialize in nephrology. 
After graduating from Georgetown Law School, ARAM JARRET was admitted to the Rhode Island bar in 1969. He spent last year clerking for a judge of the Rhode Island Supreme Court and has now joined the Providence law firm of Tobin, Decof, LeRoy and Silveistein. Aram and his wife have two children, Alidse (4) and Jay (2). Visiting Aram this past summer was DAVE BARRY who is Rev. David Barry of Binghamton, 
N.Y. REV. WILLIAM McAULIFFE CSC, of the Holy Cross Association has asked the class secretaries to remind alumni that by writing to him at St Joseph Hall one can obtain special Mass cards and spiritual bouquet cards created by the Holy Cross Association. 
Again the need for class news is urgent Please co-operate by writing now! James P. Hamisch, M.D. 3700 Buford Highway, Apt 98 Atlanta, Ga. 30329 
'66 IN SUNNY FLORIDA Some information that has come my way in recent months about the Men of '66 that might be of interest: I ran across MIKE REISERT in Ft Lauderdale recently. He and his wife Maureen and sons Mike and Chris are enjoying life in simny Horida where they recently bought a new home. Mike is a broker with Hayden Stone and seems to be doing well despite the condition of the market While in Florida I also talked with BILL ZLOCH in Ft Lauderdale who is marking time until he enters law school next fall, possibly at ND. TOM NEWMAN is now practicing law in Pompano Beach and recently married Joyce to gain new perspective on life, I'm 
3« 

sure. Up in Jacksonville, MIKE BYRNE 
is also a new banister with a large 
and reputable firm and nuking his maik. 
The class reunion following the Army 
game was moderately successful. Let me 
mention as many of the names and 
faces as I can and what I can remember 
about each. JOHN GERAGHTY is sales 
manager for Mobile Wash in Louisville. 
MARTY BRUECKNER is now with 
American Airlines in Dallas. DICK 
BOUGHAL is the registrar at Adelphi U. 
BURNETTE P. (Pat) BAUER just won 
election to the Indiana House of 
Representatives, the first member of our 
class that I know of with such a 
distinction. DAVE WORLAND is in 
medical school at Indiatia U. CAP 
GAGNON is back at ND as assistant 
director of admissions. BOB BACHE is 
back from overseas but still in the Navy. 
MIKE RUSH is now a civilian. 
BILL WOLSKI is doing weU in real 

estate in Atlanta. JOHN MUSTO is 
awaiting the results of the California bar 
exams while working at his father's idant 
in Stockton. JOHN O'HEARN is still 
a bachelor and tantalizing all the lovelies in 
the Chicago suburbs, in addition to his 
work with Pioneer Press. 
As you all know, our first big five-year reunion is just about six months around the comer. The best thing each of us can do to insure its success is set aside the nth, 12th and 13th of June 1971 for the festivities. One other little detail we should begin thinking about is a class treasury to help finance afier-the-game reunions, five-year reunions and a Memorial Mass fund for our classtnates who pass away. This isn't a new and unique concept Most other classes have established such funds to subsidize class activities. When the money is not in use, it's left in a savings account to accumulate interest for future use. A cou|de of us here on campus have talked the matter over with JOHN BUCK, class president, but arrived at no definite decision simply because it's difiBcult to gauge the overall feelings of the class. If a $S or $10 assessment sounds reasonable every five years speak up and we can get something started. If not, we'll simidy let the idea drop. Get your feelings on this particular matter, as well as any news you may have to DICK ANGELOTTI or forward it here and I'll see that he gets it Tom Sullivan for: Dick Angelotti 4260 Clausen Western Springs, 111. 60SS8 
'66L REUNION DATES SET Our reunion dates are June 10 throu^ 13. Don't miss the opening luncheon addressed by a top University administrator, the aimual golf tournament. Class dinners, campus tours, the Alumni Banquet with Fr. Hesburgh as principal speaker. Most importantly, don't miss the quiet (and ofttimes not so quiet) hours of reminiscence with classmates, the very stuff of reunions. And, lest you think that's all that's on the menu, we're designing a special series of programs geared toward probing today's ND, what it is, and where it's headed. Conducted by members of the faculty, staff, administration and students, these sessions should generate some real conversation. They'll also provide you with that once in a lifetime (at least 'tO next reunion) diance to stand up and be heard. 
SCOTTY MAXWELL hosted a party before the Navy game in PhUadeli^a. Several of us made the trip from Washington. DENNY DEE wrote from Buffalo. He is associated with Lipsitz, Green, Fahiinger, Roll, Schuller & James, and doing a little bit of everything. I understand that he is about to take a very fatal step with a young girl. Cookie and I wish everyone a very Merry Christmas and all of the best in the New Year. Let us hear from you. Frank Gregory S018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
•67 B-E-A-U-T-I-F-U-L This past fall was quite rewarding for a class secretary seeking new voices for his column. After three years of personal starvation from experiencing those home football Saturdays which become as much a part of the NDer's diet as hamburgers from the Huddle, I proceeded to gorge myself on two b-e-a-u-t-i-f-u-I victories (Purdue and Army). During my revisits, I could not help but run into many fellow students who were all more than happy to share good tidings with their class. BILL WILLIARD informed me he has now completed his law degree and finds himself working at the courthouse in his home town of Gadsden, Ala. until he passes the bar exam. Bill is hoping to soon fulfill a lifelong ambition—that being an active involvement in politics. Sue and TOM CALDWELL acquainted me with the fact that Tom has just completed his military obligation and that the Uiree of them (yes, there is a little Caldwell) plan to establish themselves for the time being in Cincinnati, Ohio. BILL CONOLE took time out of a buying spree at the Bookstore to give me an update on recent events. Bill now has bis M.A. in government, which he completed at ND and expects to be marching with Uncle Sam by the time this column reaches his hands. 
That invincible combination of GEORGE DUNN and KEVIN MORAN were trapped in the Huddle and forced to confess their recent whereabouts. George happily announced that he had just completed his law degree from Georgia Tech, while Kevin proclaimed that he was rapidly readjusting to civilian life now that he had finished his military obligation. Kevin claims the transition comes quite naturally. JACK SULLIVAN, "Slim Jack" as he likes to be called now that be'claims he's lost 40 pounds, said that he had finished a two-year hitch with Uncle Sam and presently is half­way finished with his MBA degree at ND. Jack says he has enjoyed returning to ND and hopes many old friends will seek him out at his place of employment— Sweeney's. ED POWERS has received bis MBA from Ohio State and is , thorou^y ideased with his position as a systems analyst for Marathon Oil Co., Findlay, Ohio. Hey guys, let's not wait until next football season to hear from new and old voices—keep the news rolling in. 
P.S. The mail bag was doing its "thing" too. 1 received word from GREG GILLEN through his wife, Valerie, that he is weathering his three-year stint in the Environmental Science Service Administration well. At first, Greg spent almost all of his time at sea, but now two years later Greg and Vsil find themselves situated in Washington, D.C. as Greg is assigned to the ESSA Computer Division in Suitland, Md. Although they have differing opinions on the city, they both like the great sailing in the Annapolis area. BARRY KEATING informed me that he stepped down the aisle with the former Maryann O'Hagan on June 27. News from JOHN HUGHES, 80 W. 48th St., Bayonne, NJ.: The autumn always affords many opportunities for us to get together whether it is at the University, at away games, or merely rallying around a television to watch a nationally televised game. JIM McINERNY and his wife Moni had a group over to their home in South Orange, NJ. to enjoy the Missouri encounter. Jim has recently graduated from Fordham Law School and is working with an accounting firm while taking graduate courses at NYU. 
RICK TROY was there with his wife Marcia. Rick and Marcia were wed last Spring in Farmington, Conn. A number of our alumni were in his wedding party. Besides myself, both TERRY MORIARITY and TOM BEGLY '66 were up for the wedding. Terry has graduated from Hastings Law School and is planning to continue his studies concentrating in the behavioral sciences. TONY MC GARRY and his wife Kathy were at the wedding, too. 
Also at the Mc Inemy's were GEORGE DUNN and KEVIN MORAN. Both George and Kevin joined us for the Navy game two weeks later. At Philadelphia we met many people we had not seen for quite a while. JOHN TOLAND and his wife were there. They are living in a PhiUy suburb where John is working for an insurance company. DENNY O'NEILL was with the Tolands. Denny had recently been discharged from the service and is now attending Villanova Law School. JIM PURCELL and FRANK ENGLISH were also at the game as were DAN SHAUG-graduated law school and is living in Herkimer, N.Y. Paul, of course, is with the NESSY and PAUL SEILER. Dan has 
N.Y. Jets. 
I would like to thank those who have helped me with this column during the last year. JoAnn and JACK BUTLER have done a sidendid job in the articles they have put in. It is this sort of coK>peration and assistance that go to make a class close. As you will note below my address has changed. My wife Margaret and I moved about a year ago shortly before the birth of our son—John Carroll. After graduating law school and passing the NJ. Bar, I began working with an Appellate Judge in Newark. I will be there for another year. John A. Buttler 4023 Elaine Place S. Columbus, Ohio 43227 
'67L AT ntS SEMBVAR Deadline date finds me exiled at Hofstra 
U. in Hempstead, N.Y. The IRS has sent me here for a month for some advanced seminar courses in income taxes. The ocean-front hotel where I'm quartered loses some of its charm in the mid-November weather. The past month saw a letter from Mary Jo ROE. KIP attended the Purdue game and saw only JACK and Maureen HARTY. Kip is still with the same law firm in Cincy, specializing in securities and corporate law. Thanks, Mary Jo, for wriUng. PATRICK J. O'CONNOR, announced the opening of his offices for the general practice of law at 6S0 Street Rd., Southhampton, Pa. Congratulations and good luck. FATHER McAULIFFE CSC of the Holy Cross Assn. wrote and asked that I mention Mass cards are available from the association for $3 per box. As the cards are used a donation is appreciated but not mandatory. I've found a Mass card is one of the few meaningful acts at a very difficult time. Write for the cards at Box K, Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6. 
On a happier note, my calculations show that all of our classmates have now returned safely from Vietnam and this Christmas, for the first time since our graduation, are with their families. Deo Gratias. 
Jim Heinhold 
16 Morris Rd. 
East Haven, Conn. 06513 
'68 STUDY LAW ART TUTELA informs us that we have a few Perry Masons in the wings with FRED FRANCO in his third year at Seton HaU Law School, RICH VITA in his second year at Boston College Law School, and JACK COURTNEY at Suffolk Law School in Boston. Art has been promoted the assistant advertising manager at Sandoz Colors it Chemicals in Hanover, NJ. 
Belated congratulations to MONK FORNESS on his marriage to the former Miss Katie Kraft on July II, at ND. Mike informs us that he and his wife spent a weekend with LOU FOURNIER, his wife Joyce, and their daughter, Alison. MIKE BURGNER is at the U. of Kentucky working on his Master's in Education. He is also an assistant coach to former ND assistant Johnny Ray, who is the head coach at Kentucky. Monk is working for his Ph.D. in Economics at Duke 
U. and if any of the class is in the area to stop in for some southern hospitality. On behalf of the Class of I%8, I would like to extend our sincere condolences and prayers to the parents of BRUCE W. HESKETT who was killed in Vietnam on June 29. PAUL DETTOR writes that his wife, Breta, gave birth to their second child, a daughter, Kristin Michele on Aug. 21. They are living in Lakewood, Calif, and he is a 
C.P.A. with Haskins & Sells in Los Angeles. LEO WELSH was married to the former Miss Donna Leverett on May 30, in Hudson, Ohio. At the wedding were BILL KELLY, BRIAN LAKE, JIM LYSAUGHT, and DON HARRER. 
WILLIAM KARNES received his MBA from Harvard on June II. On the move was JIM DRUCKENBROD and his bride of Aug. 8, the former Miss Jean Wheeling, from Shaker Heights, Ohio to 7249 Balson Rd., St. Louis, Mo. And now some news from the military. DAVE McCRACKEN has been commissioned a 2nd lieutenant in the Air Force after completing officers training school at Lackland AFB, Texas. Sgt TOMMY F. THOMPSON is with the 2Sth Inf. Div. at Cu Chi, Vietnam. 
Your class secretary is working for his MBA at Fairleigh Dickinson U. and plans to marry Miss Susanne G. Lee on April 3, 1971. 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 259 No. 17th St. Bloomfield, NJ. 
'ML wnmrs CRAMP 
Not too nndi to report this.month. It 
seems that most of the dass b getting 
writer's crampi. Hie letnni of football season 
has brou^t a few of our classmates 
together. BOB SIDMAN was in South 
Bend for the Army fame and met JOHN 
and Pat PUSEY. He writes that John's 
practice is foing wdl in Peoria and 
that married life has not detracted from 
his iBual "dicmty" (?). WILLIAM (Bud) 
SEALL made it to the Purdue game 
and ran into JOHN SCRIPP. JACK 
AMERMAN, and MIKE WILUAMSON. 
Mike has finally made it back from 
Korea. I have been informed throu^ 
militaTy sources that Mike received the 
Army Commendation Medal for meritorious 
service while assigned to the U.S. 
Army Advisory Group, Korea. He served 
as Chief of the AdmLustrative Division in 
the Office of the Assistant Chief of 
Staff for Personnel. 
Good news fitom the PACELLA 
household. Diane and PAT wdcomed 
Theresa Lyn on SepL 24. Tisa wei^ied in 
at 6 pounds and 2 ounces. Word has 
finally been received from one of our class 
representatives with the Marine Corps. 
Congratulations are due to ERNIE 
ABATE and Barb on the birth of Charles 
Porter on April 19. The baby wei^ied in 
at 8Vi poimds. Since graduation, Ernie 
has been admitted to the Coimecticut Bar. 
He then underwent six months of infantry 
training and spent 2Vi months at Naval 
Justice Scli0(4 at Newport. There he 
ran into TIM WOODS who was attending 
a class for court reporters. From 
Newport, Ernie received orders to Palms, 
Calif., and has been there since November 
1969. He has been doing both trial and 
defense work at special and general 
courts-martial. By the time this is published, 
Ernie should have been to ChariottesviUe, 
Va., to attend the militaty judge course 
which will qualify him to act as a judge at 
courts-martial. He expects to take the 
bench around the first of the year. Rumor 
has it that he may be sent to either 
Vietnam or Okiiuwa around the same 
time. Hopefiilly, it's just a rumor. 
Although Ernie and Barb have enjoyed 
Southern California very much, they 
expect to return to the New England area 
once his service commitment is comgdeted. 
There are a lot of people I have not yet heard from and whose activities I am sure the rest of the class would like to know about. A long letter is not necessary, just a short note to let me know what you are doing would be appreciated. That's it for now. 
Dennis C. Thden 
7816 Lisa Drive 
Norfolk. Va. 23518 
'69 PATH CLEARED After several months, the path has finally been cleared. Yes, we now will have a regular class column. Latest news by way of the Alumni Office rdates: 
TONY ALESSANDRA has been appointed instructor in Business Administration at Susquehatma U., in Seiinsgrove, Pa. Second LL ERIC FURST has been awarded silver pilot wings upon graduation at Larado AFB, Tex. Congratulations are due JOE STEON, LEON LOUNIBOS and JUAN VINCENSINI who received PhJ>. degrees from the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences last June. MATT WHITE 
has been assigned to the Americal Division in Vietnam. He is in Company E, 1st Battalion, 6th Infantry of the division's 198th Infantry Brigade near Chu Lai. 

Keep me informed of your latest accomplishments and I'll make sure they are included in the next issue. In the meantime I want to wish each of you the happiest of the holiday season and a very successful new year. During this joyous occasion let us all renew our pledge to make an individual effort to reconcile our differences in anticipation of an everlasting peace throughout the world. Mike Neumeister 64 West Winspear Ave. Buffalo, New York 14214 
'69L CONGRATULATIONS! 
I had been certain since July of this year 
-that I had duly reported the birth of Kristin Rubacb, the firstborn daughter of Peggy and JON PAUL RUBACH. But reviewing the shambles which I regard as my records it appears that I may not have done so, and I apologize. It appears that congratulations are in order for this issue. First to Sue and BRYAN HUGHES, who, while spending a six-month "vacation" at Ft. Sam Houston, Tex., adopted a little girl, Carrie Lynn. Bryan has since returned to Malone and to his job with Herron, Lawler & Fischer. Sandi and TIM McLAUGHLIN wrote to announce the arrival of a new "Puma," Timothy Allan, bom Oct 7. And Mary Ann and DOUG AUSTIN are the proud parents of Mary Katherine Austin, bom Aug. 21. My old roommate, DAVE PRIOR, finally decided to tie the knot and was accordingly married to Anne Lavelle in Ashland, Pa. Congratulations! 
Patsy and I took advantage of a three-day weekend to retum to the Dome for the Army game. It was a real pleasure to see Patti and TIM MALLOY just before the game. Tim is now a big-time patent attomey in Chicago, and it looks as if his work will not be intermpted by Unde Sam—he tumed 26 about a week before his number came up. I called GEORGE BURGETT while on our retum trip and he and Kathy are doing great I also had the chance to speak with JIM STARSHAK, and, needless to say, he's the same old "Star." 
Season's greetings to all of you, and best wishes from Pats}' and me for the New Year. Scott Atwell '69L 1050 Lafayette, No. 501 Denver, Colo. 80218 
'69 MBA FORTUNE SMILES Fortune recently smiled upon the Midwest in the form of a visit to St Louis by KEN SAMARA. Ken was able to spend an evening with the Cavato family iriiile on his way back East Ken is now an assistant corporate manager for TWA's Quality Assurance Program. His work entails considerable travel, featuring periodic visits to Frankfurt Rome, Madrid, Paris, etc. Ken assured me that he was holding up well under the strain of such assigimients. Ken was full of glowing reports on the Irish football accomidishments. These reports were confirmed shortly after Ken's visit, when the Irish defeated Missouri in convincing fashion. 
XAVIER MONCE '66 and his family 

returned to the U.S. recently and 
visited with the NICK WALZ '63 and 
RONALD L. DANZIG families. We were 
sorry to leam that the Monges' little 
girl has been ill and we hope that all is 
well with Maria Jose. 
ARCHIE SULLIVAN is now working 

in New Jersey. His address is 171 Main 
St, Apt 59, Madison, NJ. 07940. 
Still employed by Armour, Archie 
anticipates a stay of a year or so in New 
Jersey. It will be pretty difficult to follow 
the Kansas Jayhawks from way out there 
in the East hut I'm sure Archie will 
remain steadfast in his-loyalty. 
Nick and Sara Walz are planning to visit 
California for Thanksgiving, which just 
so happens to coincide with the 
Southern California game. They will 
have an apportunity to visit with RICH 
and Barbara LYMAN in Palo Alto. 
The Lsrmans' address is 453 N. Rengstorf 
Ave., Mountain View, Calif. 94040. 
Rich and Barbara are enjoying California 
living and Rich's job is going well. 
FRANK DUNN provides an interesting 
and entertaining letter from Fort Hood, 
Tex. After training sojourns at Fort 
Dix, Va. and Fort McPherson, Ga., Frank 
is enduring his assignment at Fort Hood. 
He is serving as an administrative 
specialist in a personnel luit Frank 
has had some good with the bad, in that 
he has been able to be with his wife 
for his entire term in the service so far. 
Frank's address in exotic Killeen, Tex.: 
925 W. Rancier Ave., Apt No. 19, 
Knieen, Tex. 76541. 
By the time this column reaches you, 
the Holiday Season will be with us. 
I would like to wish all of you a 
Merry Christmas, all of the best in the New 
Year and, most of all, PEACE. 
Joe Cavato 
7122 Vemon 
University City, Mo. 63130 
r^OL PASSING THE BAR By this time. I imagine that most of you have the results of your respective bar exams. I got a long letter fiom JOE LEAHY. He informed me that he and PAT DOHERTY both passed the Oregon bar exam. Joe is living at 1114 N. Kirkwood St, Ariington, Va., and has a spare bed for those of you lAo may be in the D.C. area. Pat is deridng for Judge Kilkenny in the 9th Circuit ROBERT D. MCDONNELL, wbo successfully passed the NorA Carolina bar exam, is a legislative assistaiit for Congressman Richardson Preyer from North Carolina. He was hoping that his boss would get re-elected this taO. JOHN FORHAN is working with the Justice Department, Civil Division, In Washington. He and Pat are living somewhere on Capitol HiU. 
TERRY O'CONNOR is working on his Master's in Urban Law at the U. of North Carolina at Chapel HID. Presently he is in charge of four undergraduate doims, is enjoying North Carolina football, and is, according to our past dass president frantically searddng for a led-haired Irish Catholic maiden among all those Southern Baptists. JOHH PLUMB is working for legal aid society in Jamestown, N.Y. John and Marie mcieased their family to three with the aninl of J(An Francis Plumb Jr. this smnmer. MKE CROWE is back at ND to finish his law degree. Mike and Kadiy are now 
the proud parents of a baby boy this past summer. Also back at the law school to finish his third year is DAVE RICHARDS, who spent last year in Marine OCS. JAMIE CAWT.EY is enjoying the privileges of flying with his wife, Kevin, an airiine stewardess. DAN RYBAK, JOHN PLUMB, and MIKE KELLEHER all were on hand to help celebrate Jamie's Sept 19 wedding. While we were at ND for the Army game we saw JIM HARRINGTON. Jim has settled in South Bend and now calls himself a Wall Street lawyer since he is living on Wall St In South Bend. He passed the Indiana bar exam and said that LARRY STAAB had also passed the Indiana bar. Lany is living in Lawrenceburg, Ind. After the game we went to the sherry party at the law school. They ran out of sherry glasses for the Army game, so targe paper cups were filled to the brim. JOE LEAHY was there "sipping away." While at the party, we saw RAY LAMBERT, who has finally returned to ND for his final year, after two glorious years in London. Also back for his third year is DICK BOVEY. Dick is married to the giri he met in London and they have one child. According to Ray, Dick was in the Marines last year, refused his commission, and somehow got a discharge. 
A note from KEN IVERSON and his wife, Marie, told of a little Iverson on the way and expected about April. Ken is living in RosevUle, a St Paul suburb, and seems to enjoy working nights at his firm (Sundays at 11 pjn.!!). Ken and Marie said that they saw a lot of DICK BLUMBERG until October when Dick reported to the Army at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind. Also at Fort Benjamin Harrison is DAN KRUSE. Dan went to Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. in August for his basic training, and then was transferred to Benjamin Harrison to finish up his six months. Dan and Judy became parents on Jime 11, with the arrival of Daniel Anthony Kruse Jr. According to Dan, RICH CERBONE was at Ft Leonard Wood, Mo. this summer for his basic training. Rich, however, has now been transferred to Fort Carson, Colo. TOM RINK took the Ohio bar with me In July. In September he left for Quantico for six months. And last but certainly not least JOHN KLEIN Is working with a firm in Freeport, and anxiously awaiting military service in January. 
Nancy and I are presently busy getting things ready for a little Kane, due in January. We hope you all have a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Joseph E. Kane Apt 401 
S465 Kenwood Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 45227 
ni l is the time of^theyearjatien many of m anange for requiem Misses or Haritnal boaqnets for our parents or other deputed rdatifet and fiiends. Why not «ead yoor. moMT on die campus and aead a dwdc for $3 to Father W. J. McAnfiSe,: the director of the Holy Cross Aan, Box K, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 aad he win mail joa a boat o< 12 beaalifol caids for tUs pupase: There ji no demand for a dooatioa and no dtarge for. thcf enroHmeat, but a Vobntaiy oSeiint inllbe apprecialed and used to care for the retired piierts and btodwis. 
Three former teachers, with a com­bined record of mere than 12S years at ND, and their wives comprise a delightful South Bend sextet which frequently gets together for an out­ing: usually dinner at a local restau­rant followed by an evening's visit at one of their homes. Ten years of retirement rest graciously on the trio: Jose Corona (47 years teaching Spanish), William Roemer (38 years in philosophy and several more years in developmental reading after his 1960 "retirement"), and George Wack (37 years in German). The three couples have been married a total of 138 years, and when they assemble much of their conversation centers around their IS children and 73 grandchildren. The wives are active in the Ladies of Notre Dame and other local affairs and togther with their husbands enjoy reading, good music, gardening and travel—^much of the latter to visit their offspring and their families. 
Mexico-bom Corona, who later was to meet his Canadian wife on a 

GRAB SCHOOLS 
CHEMISTRY 
The Aimy Commendation Medal has been presented to CAPT. BRUSE I. ROBERTS '68, for woric as foam research group leader at the Edgewood Arsenal, Md. He has been released from active duty and will pursue graduate study at the 
U. of Arkansas. He resides at 217 S. Elm St, Little Rock, Ark. Bro. Columba Curran CSC Department of Chemistry Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
ENGLISH 
LORRAINE GORDON M.A. 70 has joined the English faculty at the U. of Missouri in St. Louis, where John Edward Hardy, former ND professor, is now department chairman. Since 1965, FRANCIS HENNINGER M.A. '58 has taught at the U. of Dayton; this year he was appointed chairman of a new American Studies Program which he helped design. During the 1970 summer session he directed an innovative cross-disciplinary program, "The Thirties Revisited." From 1958-61 he taught at Siena College and received a second 
M.A. and a Ph. D. in American Civilization from the U. of Pennsylvania. He also served as a Research Archivist at the home of George Mason, where he discovered and data-stored some of the papers recently published in Rutland's 
Works of George Mason. 
PAUL H. JOHNSON Ph.D. '70 coached the College Bowl team at Old Dominion (Va.) College for its appearance on 
European-bound steamer, recalls that colorful st<»ies about the eariy days, after his family had been forced by he feds tint he has a real Ihdc vdth the religious persecution to flee their the Univeraty's roots. Reading is a native land, he wrote to Fr. Jcrfm vaaLjor hobby: "I can tell you anything Cavanaugh (The First) and wound up you waol to know about Mari^ Twain's with a student-teacher's pob on the writings." Mrs. Wack is a sister of Fr. campus in 1915 at the age of 20. He Edwaid Keller, long-time teacher of started in architecture, but Prof. ecoaomics on campus. The Wacks' Kervick gently advised him to stick to three sons are ND graduates and their Spanish. In his early years at ND he three daughters married ND men. At sang in the Glee Club—he still oc­laA count there were 34 grand­casionally plays the piano and sings children. when the group gets together. The 
To visit with these couples is a Coronas have three sons, all of whom refreshing esiperieiice. There's a bit of attended ND, and 12 grandchildren. 
nostalgia, a bit of concern about 
After his retirement. Prof. Roemer ."what's going on cm the campus," and taught at the South Bend branch of a whcrie lot of iove for Notre Dame Indiana U. while assisting also in the and confidence that the "thrust" (they reading program at ND. Parkinson's would never use the word) will turn disease has slowed him in recent out to be, as it always has been, years, but lately he's had encouraging forward. results from the new medicine, Rev. James Doll CSC, teacher and L-Dopa. The Roemers have four ND prefect at ND in the '40s, 'SOs and sons, lawyers, two daughters and 27 early '60s, has returned to his teaching grandchildren. One of the latter. Bob of microbiology and his work in Roemer, a sophomore, is on the Irish Lobund laboratory after some years football squad and is JBrst-string of teaching at the U. of Portland in catcher on the baseball team. Oregon. 
Prof. Wack, ND '23, who also taught at lUSB after retirement, was a good friend of Fr. Bernard III who Rev. John Wilson CSC in turn had known Fr. Edward Sorin, BoxD ND's founder. Through Fr. Ill's many Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
EDUCATION WITHOUT SCHOOLS? BL\CK EDUCATION IN AMERICA THE FUTURE OF CATHOLIC EDUCATION DRUGS AND EDUCATION 
These are but a few of the topics the new NOTRE DAME JOURNAL OF EDUCATION examines. Each quarterly issue is de­voted to a single theme in which the JOUR'.NAL offers fresh ap­proaches to controversial issues in education. But the JOURNAL does more than raise issues. It proposes new alternatives to tired solutions. Perspectives from the humanities and the behavioral and social sciences are brought to bear upon educational ques­tions relevant to contemporary society—a society in the midst of crisis and change. Emphasis given to the important findings of empirical research and reflections on the humanities. The experi­ence of practitioners in the field is also called upon. In short, the JOURNAL aims to be scholarly, useful, practical and relevant. 
Subscription to 
NOTRE DAME JOURNAL OF EDUCATION 
P.O. Box 686, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
... .  S9 one year  $16 two years  $24 three years  
Name  
Address  
Cily  .State.  .Zip.  
... .  Enclosed $.  Bill me  

tdevision in June. He is also membership diainnan of the local civic league, whidi supported and achieved a balanced Integrated neighborhood in Norfolk. He has been appointed to the Diocesan Liturgy Commission and published an aitide on the liturgy in The Catholic Virginian. Alumni will be saddened to hear of the death on Sept. 27 of Mrs. MARGARET MAKIELSKI M.A. '69. She had taught at Clay and St Joseph high schools in South Bend and had started work on her doctorate at Purdue where she was an assistant. She is survived by her husband and six children. Professor Emeritus FRANCIS E. MORAN 
M.A.
 '30, who retired in 1968, continues to teach part-time at Holy Cross Junior College, ND. The new chairman of the English Department at the U. of Scranton (Pa.) is RICHARD PASSON 

M.A.
 '63, Ph.D. '65. He has served as chairman of the program committee woildng on general course revision for Scranton and is a member of the University Senate. Celebration in Postwar American Fiction by RICHARD RUPP 

M.A.
 '57 has been published by the 

U.
 of Miami Press. Rupp is an associate professor at that Florida institution. Sister M. JO ELLEN SCHEETZ 

M.A.
 '64, who continued her doctoral studies at the U. of Michigan, has been appointed president of St. Francis College, Fort Wayne, Ind. JOHN A. UMHOEFER M.A. in Communication Arts '70 is teaching speech and communications at Brady High School, West St. Paul, Minn., where he is also head coach in basketball and golf. On Sept. 30 Prof. William Arrowsmith of the U. of Texas, classics scholar, literary critic, and commentor on American education, delivered a lecture: "Towards a New Frontier: On Teaching and the Liberal Arts." 


On behalf of the Department I wish to extend to all alumni and their families very best wishes for Christmas and the New Year. Robert M. Slabey English Department Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
HISTORY Correspondence has been a bit slim since the last issue of ALUMNUS, though I did get one long letter from THOMAS MORIARTY. Tom was at Fordham for some years, spent 1968-69 year at Talladega College in Alabama, and since September 1969 has been chairman of the Social Science Division at the College of Our Lady of the Elms in Chicopee, Mass. He is on the program committee for the Catholic Historical Assn. convention in December and says he hopes to see some compatriots from past years on that occasion. 
PAUL SIMON of Xavier U. was chairman of a session devoted to the U.S. Supreme Court and 19th century politics, at the Duquesne U. History Forum, Oct 29-31. KEN WOLF from Murray State U. was commentator on some papers relating to Russian and Eastern European nationalism, presented at the same conference. Sister MARGUERITA M. MCLAUGHLIN has joined the History faculty of Mary Manse College in Toledo, Ohio. ROOSEVELT FITZGERALD is the new head of the Human Relations Council in Las Vegas, Nev. Roosevelt's friends, including your correspondent. 

can attest that around here be 
displayed unusual skill in fonmng wann 
hunum relations with biUianl balb . . . 
to the chagrin of some of the rest 
of us. If he does as wdl with people 
there the Kingdom of Howard Hu^ies win 
be an American Utopia in short order. 
RICHARD ELMORE was maiiied in 
August and departed soon after for 
Paris—to do research on his doctoral 
dissertation, he said! His wife, the former 
Betty Christopher, remained here at ND 
where she is finishing wori^ on her 
own doctorate in the Economics 
Department Whenever they finish their 
respective dissertations the Bmores should 
receive the Victoria Cross, or some 
such, for achievement above and beyond 
the call of duty. 
Like Tom Moriarty, I hope to see 

a good many of you at the AHA 
convention in Boston. 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
LAW The faculty so far have visited 41 colleges and universities. Over 200 students have been interviewed. The Law School's Open House Oct 3, attracted approximately 200 pre-law students. DEAN WILLIAM B. LAWLESS has been selected to assist the Philippine govenmient in revising that coimtty's constitution. Prof. DAVE LINK addressed a Canadian bar association in Toronto on law and computers. Prof. CHARLIE RICE filed an amicus brief in defense of the Indiana anti-abortion law in in a federal suit in Indianapolis. 
Profs. F. X. BEYTAGH, D. T. LINK and M. V. McINTIRE, et uxes, sued in federal court to be permitted to vote for federal candidates arguing Indiana's six-month residency requirement is unconstitutional. A problem in giving the state attorney general adequate notice, frustrated the suit Nevada Supreme Court Justice JOHN MOWBRAY L '49 was one of 20 jurists from throughout the U.S. selected to participate in a state appellate judge seminar at New York U. Law SchooL RICHARD HARBINGER L '69, assistant to the president of the A.B.A., published an article "Courtroom in the Rotmd" in the August-September issue of Judicature magazine. LEONARD GOSLAWSKI L 70 is now an associate with Obencbain, Johnson, Ford and Pankow of Mishawaka. ND graduates of the class of '70 are 100 per cent on the bar exams in Indiana, Minnesota and Oregon. A factdty touch football team was entered in the school's intra-muial schedule and finished 2 and 3 for the season. Ray Scotto's L '71 senior team won the championship. If you have something of interest idease send it along so we can share it with everyone. 
ND lawyers of the New York area will meet at a noon luncheon, Jait 29, in the BOtmore Hotel, Suites LAM , for informal discussion with Dean Lawless. JOHN D. KELLY '44, «iio has duuge of arrangements, says it is not a fund-raising affair and invites lawyers of eastern New Jersey and southern Connecticut to attend. Leslie G. Foschio Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 MATHEMATICS During 1970, 17 PhJD. and 53 M.S. degrees were awarded to students in the Mathematics Department One of our new Ph.D.'s, ALEXANDER J. HAHN M.S. '68, received a National Science Foimdation Postdoctoral Fellowship. He is currentiy continuing his research on linear groups at the University of Zurich in Switzerland. ALESSANDRO 
C. CELIANESE M.S. '58, assistant professor of mathematics and director of the Computing Center at St Peter's College, Jersey City, NJ. has been named chairman of the college's board of athletics. Calianese, niio resides with his wife and their four children at 44 Pierce Av e is a doctoral candidate at Stevens Institute of Technology. DARWIN 
G. DORN who received an M3. from ND in June after work in our National Science Foundation sponsored Teacher Training Institute, has been named an assistant instructor in mathematics at Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind. In addition to his teaching duties he is head coach of cross-country and will assist with track. George Kolettis Department of Mathematics NoUe Dame, Ind. 46556 
METALLURGICAL 
ENGINEERING AND 
MATERIALS SCIENCE 
Since the last issue we have had news of the following alumni: CORNELIUS A. JOHNSON B.S. '43, for many years with Buehler, Ltd. of Evanston has gone into business for himself, establishing Instra-Met, Inc. at Elk Grove Village, ni. with two others. The firm will sell a comi^ete line of metallurgical laboratory equipment and offer coiuultation (with no obligation) on laboratory fanning, techniques, and instrumentation. DR. FRANCIS COOKE '57, has been assigned the dual respon^bilities of manager of the bioengineering group and manager of the physical metallurgy laboratory at the Franklin Institute Research Laboratories. He will direct research in the areas of the mechanical properties of bone and tissue, prosthetic and implant materials, bioimpact and safety engineering. In addition, he will direct the activities of the physical metallurgy laboratory in the areas of the structure, deformation, fabrication, and mechanical properties of metals, including titanium, steels, and composites. So, bring your old bones to Frank for repair. DR. RICHARD W. FOUNTAIN B.S. '47, recently was advanced to vice president, Airco Temescal Division of Air Reduction Co., Inc. in New York City. 
On the Saturday of the Purdue game the department was surprised by a visit from DR. JOHN O. SCHIFFGENS B.S. '61, and iiis wife; he is now teaching nuclear engineering at Purdue University. The Annual Meeting of the American Society For Metals in Qeveland, Oct 19-22 was well attended by ND men, and as usual we had a good representation on the official program. Ihe following metallurgy alumni either acted as chairmen of technical sessions or ddiveied papers: JAMES F. COYNE B5. "53, HSUN (Bill) HU Ph.D. '51, HUGH J. McQUEEN M.S. '58, Ph.D. '61, JACK R. NADEAU B.S. '51, H. S. NAYAR MS. '62, DR. DAVE L. 
SPONSEIXER B^. '53, DR. CORNELIUS 
P. SULLIVAN BS. 'SI. and B. SWAROOP M.S. '6X At the same meeting DR. GEORGE KUCZYNSKI of thefactdty presented a paper and DR. ETTORE PERETn presided at the annual meeting of Alpha Sigma Mu. WILLIAM D. MANLY B.S. '47, M.S. '49, was made a fellow of the society. 
E. A. Peretti Department of Metallurgical Engineering 
and Materials Science Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
MICROBIOLOGY HUMBERTO COSENZA Fh.D. '69, is now a research associate in the Department of Pathdogy of the U. of Chicago School of Medicine. EDWARD HAVELL Ph.D. '70, has received a post-^loctoral fellowship in the Department of Microbiology of the New York U. School of Medicine. Sister JOHN MIRIAM JONES PhJ>. '70, was invited to attend an Institute on Immunology in Grignon, France, in August, and is now doing post-doctoral research in the Department of Pathology of the U. of Colorado Medical Center at Denver. JEANNINE MAJDE Ph.D. 70, has a post-doctoral fellowship at LaRabida Institute, Chicago. BARBARA PERI Ph.D. 70, is now associate professor of biology at Valparaiso U., Valparaiso, Ind. Maj. RICHARD SPERTZEL Ph.D. 70, is a member of the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, Fort Detrick, Md. Sister ROSEMARY SULLIVAN Ph.D. 70, is teaching microbiology and physiology at Russell College, Burlingame, CaUf. THEODORE ZACHARIA Ph.D. '68, is on the research staff of Rockefeller U., New York City. COLIN FRANKER Ph.D. '65, is conducting research in virology at Los Angeles County General Hospital. 
Julian R. Pleasants Department of Microbiology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOaOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY For those who have not already heard. Professor William V. D'Antonio will vacate the chairmanship next June in order to assume a similar post at the U. of Connecticut Professor D'Antonio joined the sUff via Michigan State in 1959, and took over the departmental reins in 1966. Under his aggressive and resourceful leaderdiip the forces toward growth and excellence set in motion by his predecessors gained new impetus. During his tenure, among other things, the size of the faculty doubled, the number of undergraduate majors rose to record levels, enrollment in the graduate program underwent unprecedsnted growth, and departmental offerings in anthropology were solidified. Less tangible but equally significant was the enhancement of the department's image locally, regionally, and nationally. Those of us who will remain are hopeful that we can continue to build on his many achievements and contributions. We are, of course, grateful for his distinguished service and his coUeagueship, and we wish him well in the challenges that will confront him at Connecticut. 
Earlier this fall, one of ND's (and the department's) most loyal sons, GORDON 
J. DiRENZO, resigned the chairmanship 
of the Department of Sodoiogy at 2,000 fHoilies. Tlie ftmner pastor, Indiana U.—South Bend in favor of a Msgr. OTT, now retired, was a ND full professorship at the U. of Ddawaie. man, and one ci Ae assistants, a Fr. 
TOM COFFEE, besides serving as Ross, is a Jesuit win is cuniently assistant to the vice president of acadeimc woiUiis on a dissertation for a sodoiogy affairs at La Salle College, was recently degree ftom ND. Sounds like ND is wdl­made dean of that school's evening estaUished there. Ron also eodosed 
division and summer sessions. FRANK an aiMoiniceinent of a meetiiig of the 
J. FAHEY is now director of ND's "Soodiem Cafifonaa Thin Fifan Office of Education Resorch. a position Chapter of the American Vacuum Sodety," that keeps him close to the operations for Sept. 29, 1970, listing the featured 
of the Social Science Training and speaker as DR. IRNEE J. D'HAENENS Research Laboratory which, since its origin, PhD. '66 (physical dectronics). he has so effectively helped nui. Just to sati^ your curiosity the sobjea 
of Imee's talk was Infrared Photoemittets. 
Within hours after he shuffled onto Imee was one of our undergraduate this mortal coil, Anthony Robert phyacs majors, and be recdved hb VasoU's fictive grandmotber, the B.S. in Physics from ND in 1956. After irrepressible Mrs. Lawrence, was in her receiving his B.S. degree, be joined own inimitable and slightly irreverent Hughes Researdi Laboratories, Hughes way referring to him as "messiah." Jeanne 
Aircraft Co., at Malibu, Calif. He 
and I, like any other unbiased parents managed to acquire an M.A. degree from fawning over their firstborn, are mt the U. of Southern California in 1958, 
adverse to looking for sparks of divinity and some years laterreturned to ND in the little fellow. We will know on a HuiJies Fdlowship to complete better if and when he first chooses to sleep worit for his PhJ>. degree. At last report through the night without interruption. he was bead of the Quantiun Becttonics Robert H. Vasoli and Spectroscopy Section at Hu^ies Department of Sociology Researdi Laboratories. Imee, wife 
and Anthropology Shirley, and four children, Greg, Michdle, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Tberese, and Mark, live at 1844 Berkshire Drive, Thousand Oaks. Calif. 91360. A. MARTIN BUONCRISTIANI 
PHYSICS 
'66 (theoretical i^iysics), was a recent 
Your columnist recently received a letter visitor to the department Marty, from RON THIEL Ph.D. '60 (high who is currently an assistant professor in 
polymer physics)—see also this column for the Department of Mathematics at April-May 1970 issue—describing some Ohio State, gave a series of three of his extracurricular activities. It theoretical seminars on "An Introduction 
seems that Ron has been busily engaged to Vector Bundles in Physics." So, In in helping to establish a parish council spite of the fact that Marty is now in in their (San Diego) paridi, involving some 
WHAT ARE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS STUDENTS SAYING TODAY? 
To find out read NOTRE DAME STUDENT BUSI­NESS REVIEW. The purpose of this magazine is twofold: To provide an outlet for creativity and personal research and to keep the alumni informed of the current business thought on campus. In its fifth year of existence, it is managed and edited by studnts of the Business School. Articles are written exclusively by students and reflect their thoughts and opinions. 
For two issues, send $3 by check to Notre Dame Student Business Review, 
P.O. Box 383, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
NAME 
ADDRESS 

CITY STATE ZIP 
Class year Major 

Make checks payable to the Notre Dame Student Business Review. 
a mathematics department, he still likes phyacs! Marty, wife Patricia, and three children, Martin, Christopher, and Teresa, live at 3050 Saint John Court, No. 1, Columbus, Ohio 43202. Another recent visitor to the department was Dr. JOHN R. ERSKINE Ph.D. '60 (nuclear physics)—see also this column for June 1970 issue. John gave our colloquium talk last Wednesday, Oct. 21, the subject being "182 Tantalum Revisited: A Search for a Missing Sign." 
Now for one more of the old-timers. 

ROBERT F. O'CONNELL '62 (theoretical physics), wife Josephine, and two children, Adrienne and Fiona, live at 522 Bancroft Way, Baton Rouge, La. 70803. Bob received his B.S. degree from the National U. of Ireland in 1953. After acquiring his Ph.D. in '62 from ND, he spent the two-year period l%2-64 as a research associate 
AKRON About 100 Akron Irish kicked off the new year with our annual family picnic-student send-off on Aug. 29. The setting was at BOB FABBRO's "58 beautiful lakeside home on Turkeyfoot Lake. Father Becker celebrated lakeside evening Mass and deeply inspired all with his dialogue. JIM KEEGAN '59 was honored as Man of the Year and we've never had a more deserving recipient. Few exemplify the attributes we ascribe to a real ND man better than he does. DAVID REDLE '70, CHRIS BARLOW '70, PAT BELL '70 and Steve Ahem '71 led a very stimulating and productive discussion on the students' perspective of their ND education, their value system, their Catholic faith, etc. The positive interchange had to make this our best such event in quite a while. 
Our new secretary is HARRY F. PEPPER Jr. '60, 70 White Hall Drive, Tallmadge, Ohio 44278. He'll handle the writing chores in the future. Greg Foust '63 
ATLANTA The Atlanta ND Alumni and friends joined with the Missouri Club representa­tives at the K of C Hall to watch ND defeat Missouri on national TV. The party was successful, thanks to the efforts of committeemen PETE MURRAY '63, BOB HUETZ '58 and JIM MORRISON '52. Special thanks to DICK MURPHY '44, general manager of Sears Retail Stores for furnishing the five color TVs. New members at the party included MARTY FAGGIONl '64 and parents, JOHN JOYCE '69, ART SULLIVAN '55 and sons, JIM WALSH '64, and regulars BOB HOCHMAN '54, BILL ROCHE "53, BILL LEONARD '48, TOM BYRNE '49, TOM GUNNING '57. 
Regular monthly luncheon meetings started Oct. 14 at Planters Exchange in Underground Atlanta. JAN TABAKA '63, proprietor, provided a special table for the Club. Arrangements for future meetings at Planters Exchange will be coordinated by JACK HOGAN '63 with a special event scheduled the week of the at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Dublin, Ireland. In 1964 he joined the faculty of the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Louisiana State U. as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1966, and promptly took a leave of absence to serve as an NAS-NRC senior research associate at NASA Institute for Space Studies (New York) from 196648. He returned to LSU in 1968, and was promoted to his current rank of fiill professor in 1969. 
That's all for this time. Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
THEOLOGY Sung vespers have been reinstituted in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart 

ND-Ga. Tech game. Attendance at the initial luncheon was good, and included members JON WISEMAN '64, JOE DOYLE "70, STEVE STRACHOTA 70, FRANK COTTER '63, DENNIS MAKIN '66, L'69, ED ABRAMS "50, WILLIAM SCHROEDER Jr. '63, BOB DeMEESTER '61, and from the University, TOM SULLIVAN '66. Tom later accompanied the school committee chairman, LOU LONCARIC '57, to HapeviUe Hi ^ Sdiool where ND was invited to participate in • college day program. Over 10 lUgh sdiools and 20 colleges were in attendance. This was a significant break-throu^ since it represented the first time ND has been invited to prospect along with predom­inately "southern" schools. The Atlanta Schools Committee also held its first Information Day in Atlanta on Oct 24. Students and counselors in the Atlanta metropolitan area were given the opportunity to investigate ND. A panel consisting of alumni gave short presentations 
on different phases of ND. PETE MUR­RAY '63, admissions; BILL WOLSKI '66, student life and activities; BOB MUL­SHINE '63, the business school; BILL RICH '63, College of Arts and Letters; PETER DANCE '65, Engineering; FRANK COTTER '64, financial aid; and JIM EICHELBERGER '63, improvised "sub titles" to slides taken at ND. GEORGE KUNZ '69, now with the Falcons, talked informally with students and parents. DAN SARACINO '69, assistant admissions director, highlighted the program by an­swering specific questions about the University. Communion day with GERALD KIEFER '54 handling arrange­ments will be the club's next event. Louis T. Loncaric '57 
BUFFALO The Buffalo Club sponsored an ND Night at the Philharmonic on Nov. 6. The guest conductor at this pops concert was Mitch Miller. Co-chairmen were WILLIAM 
C. KANE '59 and MARVIN LaHOOD '58. The Buffalo Club's Communion breakfast was set for Dec. 6 at Rosary Hill College. Chairing the event was the Club's 1970 Man of the Year. DICK WAGNER '53. Many Buffalo au b members have managed to see the 1970 edition of the Fighting Irish perform their special brand of football magic. Those of us who managed to get to South Bend this fall have been impressed with the Church. Simday vespers will be sung at 
4:30 pjn. and weekday vespers at 7 pjn. Monday, Wednesday and Friday evenings. 
The brief form of evening prayer will include: 
A thanksgiving for the light and for the day—^Lucemarium; a penitential rite— Psalm 141 with incense; an evening psalm; a reading from Holy Scripture; a Gospel canticle; a litany of petitions and finally the Trisagion and the Lord's Prayer. 
Faculty members have been invited by Rev. David Wright OP and Prof. William 
G. Storey to take leadership roles at the vespers as celebrant, deacon, cantor or reader. 
Mrs. Aim Scheu Department of Theology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ever-expanding facilities, but particulariy with the students who seem to be true Notre Dame men. Marvin J. LaHood '58 
CALUMET AREA New officers chosen to lead the club during the coming year are JAMES BROCKE 
•65, president; MATT KERGER '52, V-P; TOM FEALY '57, secretary; and BRUCE BARNER '65, treasurer. The club held its summer picnic on Sept. 13 at the Hammond Optimist Park. Winners of the season's home football tickets are Tom Safar of Griffith and Andy McGinnis of Crown Point The club is in the process of updating its roster. We urge all alumni in the area to complete the information card for our Alumni Directory. Our oflicial address is P.O. Box 875, Hammond, Ind. 46300. Future events being idanned include a corporate communion, ND basketball trip, and a dinner-theater party. Tom Fealy '57 

CINCINNA-n Plans are being made for the 1970 Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast The Communion Breakfast will be held in eaily December, and a large turnout is anticipated. 
Mrs. Andrew Barton Jr. is this year's chairman of the St Patrick's Day Dance. The St Patrick's dance will be held on Friday, March 19, 1971, at the beautiful Hyde Park Golf and Country Club. The green beer has been ordered, shillelaghs are being flown in from Ireland, and leprechauns will provide the music. Tom Eagen '66 
CLEVELAND Since my last letter of transmittal, we held our Freshman Orientation Night on Sept. 2 with perennial Chairman TONY De BAGGIS '51 once again running a fine show. Both the St Maiy's group, which we invited, and our own incoming kids were impressed with the yesteryear insight of our experiences on campus and our present-day hospitality. Chie, DENNY CLARK, a recent graduate on his way to Law School, was sent in by JAMES COONEY in order to brief both the parents and new collegians on how the hip student body should act today. Bartenders THOMAS CORRIGAN '57 and FRED NAEGELE '48 did a commendable Job 
on dispensing putich and cookies. 
On Sept. 17, we held our annual golf 
outing at Landerfaaven Country Club with 
CREIGHTON MILLER '44 and JOE 
MAWBY '58 burning up the course to mn 
all the golf prizes. It was a great affair. 
DICK VAN AUKEN '57 took his pro 
investment, Dick Schartz, off the circuit to 
participate, but he was outdriven in the 
long baU contest by FRANK HOPKINS '41, 
who carried home a carton of Wheaties. 
The only fellow who really decimated our 
skill game was JOHN PENOTE '33, 
who took us for about $117.50 and then 
donated it back to the Club. Buying ­
enough dinner tickets to cart home 14 prizes 
each were JOHN HUMMER '57 and 
WILLIAM SHEEHAN '58. 
Seen really shaking it up in the Swinging 
Lander Lounge Bar after, were ED JOYCE 
'56, JIM SULLIVAN "48 and BILL 
MEYER '54. We all had such a good time 
that the membership voted on making 
it a rerun the following Wednesday. 
Congratulations to co-chairmen FRED 
FRIEND '50 and DENNY BUTLER '62 
for a real successful party. 
The weekend of the Army game was the time of our annual Husband and Wife Retreat at Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House. Our "Retreat Papa," GEORGE KERVER, has such a following that couples from Decatur, Ind., Cicero, III., and Wichita, Kan. flocked to our Cleveland Retreat to absorb some of George's goodness. A very fine retreat master, one Father Grim, gave us enough spiritual and mental preparation to combat Lucifer, Herod, Charies Manson, and Henry VIII all at once. NICK De VITO '63, JACK COLEMAN '44 and VINCE De CRANE 'SO signed up with Fr. Foran to stay another week alone, but their wives couldn't find a ride home. Chairman Kerver has us booked for an audience with the Pope in May. Patrick J. Cannon '55 
DAYTON 
JOE MULLIGAN '59, from the University, visited the Gem City to participate in Dayton's college infor­mation night, Oct 14. Over 3,000 interested high school students and parents kept Joe and the local club officers, BILL McGUIRE '65 and BILL SEALL '68 hopping with their questions. JOHN F. O'BRIEN '41 hosted the Dayton group for a beer and snacks get-together to watch ND roll over Missouri on national TV. The football prophet of the day was GENE MAYL '24 who was right on with his pick. Former Dayton Qub president, JAMES BRITT '53 was nominated for the ND national Alumni Board. The Dayton Oub is fortunate to have an outstanding individual as a member and former president Best of luck, Jim. James E. Ireton '66 
DETROIT 
BURKE CUENY '57 was the chairman of one of the Detroit Club's most successful activities in recent years, the victory party, celebrating the Fighting Irish victory over the Spartans at East Lansing. Five buses seating approximately 50 people each were diartered for the trip from suburban Detroit to East Lansing and back, and an additional 250 peoide appeared for a party at the Holiday Inn following. Burke is to be commended on his organization and enthusiasm which enabled 
the Qub to enjoy this gala occasioiL 
Needless to say, the game itself didn't hurt 
BOB TAYLOR '58 planned the holiday 
party, a dinner dance on Nov. 28 at the 
Mauna Loa in Detroit 
Arthur W. Shannon '59 
FORT LAUDERDALE 
The ND Oub of Fort Lauderdale "kicked off' its 22nd year of activities at its 10th annual TV party (ND versus Missouri) by raffling off a victory cake, won by the guest of Mike Reisert Arranging the party were: Club President, JOHN KRUPNICK: Treasurer, PAUL GORE; Chaplain, Father MARTY DEVEREAUX: and Director, MARTY SULLIVAN. The party was well attended by SO members and 33 guests. Food and victory cheer a-plenty were had by all. WiUiam J. Kilburg 
HARRISBURG 
Forty-four club members had an enjoyable day at the ND-Purdue game. The weather was not too good for flying, but we made it back to Harrisburg with only a few delays. A large group invaded Philadelphia on Oct 31 for the Navy game. Vice-President JOHN BOLGER '57 arranged a party at the Marriott following the game. Tentative plans are also being made for another Information Night in cooperation mth the Admissions Office. Our Schools Committee featuring such stalwarts at DR. AL SCHREDER '49 of Lancaster, John Bolger, ERNIE BUCKLEY '53 and Oub Proxy JOE ELLAM '58 have devoted a lot of time to this effort. Twenty area boys are enrolled in this year's freshman class. This includes three starters on the yearling football team. Watch out for Harrisburg! Ernie Buckley 'S3 
HOUSTON 
The ND Club of Houston is really coining alive! Here is what we have been up to: 1. A pre-season football party was held at Frank Horlock's Jersey Lilly Bar. Sixty people attended, tlie '69 ND Football Highlights film was shown. 2. The Monthly Luncheon at Cellini's Restaurant has been well attended. The Septeniber and October luncheons each were attended by 24 to 30 members. 3. The Club's new listing in Southwestern Bell's alphabetical directory of Greater Houston win be 621-2350. 4. Michael McGown '71 expressed his appreciation to the Houston Club for helping him out of a ti^t financial situation. LEIGHTON YOUNG was quite instrumental in obtaining a $1,200 loan which enabled Mike to return to ND for his senior year. 5. A ND-Missouri TV Game Party was held at the Hoh'day Inn on the Southwest Freeway-610 Loop. (Rev.) Rivers Patuot III '60 
INDLINAFOUS 
The annual golf outing was held in August at the Country Club of Indianapolis. JOE DESAUTELS '53 was the chairman and did an outstanding job. There were approximately 100 golfers. Ara Parseghian was in attendance and all present thoroughly enjoyed his talk. DAVID FOY '54 has scheduled the annual Communion Dinner for Dec. 8. This has always been a popular event and again this year we look forward to excellent attendance. 
We were exdted to feam that one of our members BILL McGOWAN '57. has been nominated for the national ND Ahmmi Board of Directors. JACK MCHUARTY "£3 is the new dninnan of the Friday pte-football game hmdieon meetints. IVse have ben very wdl attended this year and we have had some inteiestiiig speakers. 
James A. Crossin, MD. '60 
KENTUCKV As of this issue our ammal Schcdarship Fimd project is in fidl swing. Let's all get behind Chairman HODG MUTER '40 and do more than ever. Remember tuition costs are vtpi temeniliei dnes-pud menjbets have first call oo ND-UK tickets. In the near futme members can expect a questionnaiTe addng than what they want from the dnb. Heading this project is RUSS RAQUE '60. Chairman of the Almnni sdioob committee program is BILL SHERMAN '58 and Bin would wdcome any hdp or sugtgations members could give concerning recruiting U ^ schocd students for ND. In December we win again lurid a banquet following Mass on Dec 8. More detaSs are bong sent out Once again I win remind you that if there is any item you would like to see in the ALUMNUS pkase contact me. Mike Casper *64 
LANSING 
Oct 3 was the big day in Tjnring as Ara's Army came to East Lansing to end the 21-year Irish victory drought at Spartan Stadium. The weekend got off to a flying start at the meeting of the Lansing First Friday Chib. "MOOSE" KRAUSE was the featured speaker for a record dub turnout "Moose" gave his usual fine talk, and conduded with the most nonconunittal game prognostication possible, thereby maiinainiiig his record of "never having been pirmed." Friday ni^t, ND Alumni and guests attended the traditional pre-game pep nOy and dance at the Jack Tar Hotd. Chib president FRANK SIERAWSKI '48 and dance chairman DAVE OXEARY '51 invited the corps of Irish cheerieaders to the dance. These students were, without exception, friendly, charming and wdl-inannered. They picked up the tempo of the larty, mixed with the Alumni and wives, and generally made a most favorable impression on an present An alumni were certainly proud to have ND represented by young men and ladies of the very bi ^ cahbre as the cheerieading squad. Saturday was the big day, of course, and in spite of M.S.U. playing their best game of the season, the Irish steamroller flattened 
them into the Tartan Turf. Prc'^ame and post-game parties hosted by Dr. and. Mrs. JERRY COROES '43, Mr. and Mrs. BERNIE MAYOTTE '44, Mr. and Mrs. PETE HASBROOH '60 and Mr. and Mrs. BILL DOTTERWEICH '58 added to the festivities. The weekend win be long remeiiibered by the Lansing area ahmmi. Bm Dottenreidi '58 
LEHIGH VALLEY A combination family picnic-back to school day was held oa Aug. 28, with approximatdy 65 persons in attendance. The event was hdd at Dr. J. Tate's picturesque farm outside Alkntown, Pa. Games were hdd for the children, whereas the so-called "young at hearts" attempted such things as a touch football game— outcome of the game—JIM KELLY'S '64 "Youth Movement"—30, BERT DADAVs '48 "Senior Citizens"—18. Since many favorable comments were received concerning the event, it appears likely that chairman TOM BATES '60 may be called upon to direct ND Day 71. 
J. R. Rowlands '57 

MAINE The ND Alumni of Maine meet only infrequently because of the distance between fellow alumni. However, for the ND-Missouri game we had a listening-in party at my home in Lewiston where a goodly crowd of ND men gathered. We are planning a dance to be held some time during the long Christmas vacation period when the students will be at home and we have quite a few new students at ND this year. With this additional number of eight freshmen, the total in the ND student body this year is 17. My own son Gene will graduate next June. Time does pass on even for those of us who married late in life. We are pleased to welcome in advance HENRY THOLEN of Burger Bra and Girdle Co. out of Connecticut who is planning to retire in Maine and is building at least a summer home at South Paris, Maine. Hank dropped in to say hello recently at my plant in Lewiston. Hank was the drum major in our day. We are also pleased to welcome to the Lewiston-Aubum area BERNARD BREAULT who is also located here as an engineer for Kerr Electric Co. As for myself, I am all over the country in the fall promoting the Farmerf Almanac in some 60 ciu'es. Keep tuned to radio and TV and you may hear a plug for Maine and the University of Notre Dame. Ray Geiger '32 
NORTH FLORIDA On Aug. 28, the North Florida "duffers" took to the links of the Fort George Island Golf Course for the annual golf tournament. Many thanks to DENIS O'SHAUGHNESSY '61 and his line committee for their efforts on this affair. Dinner and a film of ND's 1969 football season capped off the evening. Sept. 13 found the club members with their families at Camp Tomahawk for a Sunday picnic. Many members were missed, but those who attended had a thoroughly enjoyable day. On Oct. 17, Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES MUSSALLEM extended the hospitality of their home for a stag beer party during the telecast of the ND-Missouri game. The turnout was excellent, and we all thank Charlie for a great time. 
Last month we lost our club secretary, RAY KELLY '61, who defected to the North. Ray is back home in Garden City, 
N.y. Many thanks, Ray, for a fine job. You guys in Garden City can use this mad Irishman. 
Tun Lynch '61 
NEW ORLEANS With the advent of fall and the football season, the activities of the New Orleans Alimini have increased. The annual Freshman Sendoff held at the Governor House Motor Hotel on Aug. 27 was a smashing success. The cocktail party was held in conjunction with the local St. Mary's alutimae. The ND freshmen in attendance: Francis J. Deinarest III, Gerald R. Keller, Theodore J. Gusman III, Ralph V. Seep and Allen J. Hamilton, enjoyed meeting their comrades from across the highway. The Missouri game TV party was held on Oct 17 in the Grand Ballroom of the Bourbon Orieans HoteL A buffet was served prior to the kickoff. The fine performance of the football team made it an enjoyable day for all. On Nov. 21 the local alumni win return to Soutii Bend for the ND-LSU game. Headquarters will be established in the Ramada Inn. We are looking to the Irish team to equal our boasts and bets here in LSU country. Leon J. Reymond, Jr. '64 
NEW YORK Tile Club has 18 directors, six from New York City, six from Westchester, Putnam, and Rocldand Counties, and six from Nassau and Suffolk Counties. The designation of three areas is for the purpose of providing balanced geographical representation at all times. Directors serve three-year terms, and thus two directors are elected each year from each of the three areas. On or before Feb. 1 of each year, a nominating committee, appointed by the president, shall designate twice as many nominees as there are vacancies to be filled. Tliis year, the nominating committee consists of DEON SUTTON '31, vice president, and FRANK REIDY '55, treasurer. A baUoting of the membership is to be comi^eted by March 1. This is where you come in. Tills is your opportunity to stand for election, to assist the Club, to make an active contribution. Please give us a call at the Club office: 212-685-4254. 
Retiring directors in March, I97I include TOM BRADLEY '30 and GENE MAGUIRE '49 from Westchester-RocUand-Putnam; GORDON FORESTER "47 and JORDAN HARGROVE '35 from Nassau-Suffolk; and JIM GRIFFIN '47 and JOHN GRUNING "27 from New York City. Our directors participate in approximately 27 directors' meetings during their three-year terms and are active in Club events as participants and sometimes chairmen. Many thanks for your tireless efforts on behalf of the aub! 
COMING EVENTS: Madison Square Garden—ND vs. Fordham, Feb. 18. Plenty of good seats will be available for this game at the Garden box office, in person or by mail. Baskeitnll—ND vs. SL John's at Hillcrest Campus Gym on Feb. 27. The Club is attempting to obtain a block of tickets for this game, always a sellout, and if we are successful, a mailing will be made to our members. St John's should be a good test for Austin Carr, our All-American, and his teammates. Uriiiiiil ND Night—Tentatively scheduled for April at the Westchester Country Club, Rye. We are anxioiu for a particularly large mmout by our Westchester-Rockland-Putnam alumni at this lovely setting. More detaiU later. GERRY SAEGERT '40 is chairman. Amnul Rettcat—AprQ 29 to May 2, St Ignatius Retreat House, Manhasset Long Island. More details later. TOM BRADLEY "30 is chairman. Paul T. Smith '60 

OmO VALLEY 
The Ohio Valley ND Club lost two 
dedicated members and ND lost two 
enthusiastic alumni. On Oct 9 THOMAS 
F. HOWLEY 'II died at the age of 82. He was the oldest member of the Ohio Vall^ ND Club. He is survived by his widow, two sons and one dauc^ter. Funeral Services were conducted at St Joseph's Cathedral by the Most Rev. Bishop Jos ^ H. Hodges and Rev. John J. Allison, his wife's nephew. 
On Oct 17, while viewing the ND-Missouri football game on TV, JOHN J. MALIK, Sr. '27-29 succiunbed to a heart attack. He is survived by his widow, one son, JOHN J. MALIK, JR. '52, LLB '54, and four grandchildren. Both were practicing lawyers and were associated together in business. Funeral services were conducted at St Michael's Catholic Church in Bellaire, Ohio, by Rev. Robert Clouston. Members of the Ohio Valley ND Club expressed their sorrow to the survivors of both of these men. Hoping to be able to report one or more local alumni elected to public office before the next issue. Bill Mitsch '33 
ST. LOUIS ND-Missouri at Coliunbia, with national TV coverage, was the big game for St Louis alumni. After years of anticipation and months of preparation the time had come. A few short hours and it's all history. The sports pages have covered the on-the-field activities. And we'd like to mention a few things that stand out in our memory. The cheering ND fans in little pockets spread aroimd the stadium. DON BOUFFARD's efforts on the tickets and seating. BOB McGLYNN '51 and DICK ASH '54. What a job they did for the St Louis Club! From initial organization to trip completion every detail worked out so everything ran smoothly. Very smoothly! The ND cheerleaders. The number of older alums who remarked what fine young peofde those cheerleaders are. The bus captains and all others who contributed to a happy, successful day. The ND people. Alums, wives, parents, students, subway friends. The kind of people who make you proud of your common association. The St Louis Qub Scholarship Fund is a littie larger as a result of this actirity and these people. The next big activities will center on the St Patrick's Day Parade, to be held on the Saturday monung prior to St Pat's, and UND Night JOE McGLYNN '55 is working hard on the St Patrick's activities and he can use your help. Drop him a note or |Aone him and let him know you're willing. Newest addition to our club roster is TOM CONNELLY '65, MBA '70 who returns to St Louis after a stint as a helicopter pQot in Vietnam and successful pursuit of his MBA at ND. Welcome back, Tom! Paul Gund '63 
SAN DIEGO Sept 20 dawned strictiy according to what everyone has heard about San Diego weather; cloudless, dry, and in the middle 70's. And a record 122 adults and children of the ND Oub of San IMego responded by heading for a picnic at Camp CHiver in the Lagtma Mountains. Father William Power, straight from the "Old Sod," was most gracious to say Mass for the gathered faithful. It was learned that Fr. Power had spent many years as a missionary in Nigeria and would soon be returning. So the collection of the day was given to the furtherance of this great worlc. Hot dogs, hamburgers, beer, and soft drinks were furnished by the Club and each family brought a dish, such as salad, dessert, chili, etc. All the cooking was done over a huge outdoor fire, with various people talcing turns braving the smoke and heat as chefs. Somehow, the chefs and wives managed to barely keep up with the ravenous appetites and an apparent good time was had by all. Oct. 17 saw FRANK DONOVAN '28, chairman the annual TV Game of the Week event, at the Quail's Inn, Lake San Marcos. A really fantastic buffet was set for 72 grads and their wives and beer was served after the lunch and while eyes were glued to the set Needless to say, the tension was enormous through the first three quarters and this writer will never cease to be amazed at how ­the waiter managed to keep his mind on his duties. He must have been from U.S.C., but he managed to keep a straight face. 

At this writing, a wild gleam is already noted in the eyes of Club fans, as they anticipate the Nov. 28 bus trip to the Los Angeles Coliseum and the collision with U.S.C. Two years of frustration is enough, and a just reward MUST be fourthcoming! 
Bruce Lancaster 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA Social Activities have highlighted the fall season for the San Francisco Bay Area Club. The monthly luncheon for October, held at the Picadilly Bar in the St. Francis Hotel, was well attended by members throughout the Bay Area. Among those present were: OSCAR WONG, MICHAEL HARNETT '62, JOE BOIVIN '55, BILL SHERMAN '49, JIM DONOHUE '48, JOHN SHEETS '64, WILLIAM McGOWAN '41, and JOHN HAFF '48. On Oct 17, members of the Club gathered in the Italian Room of the St Francis Hotel to cheer the Irish on to victory over Missouri. Arrangements were made possible by MIKE HARNETT '62, a Club director, who is also director of sales for the hotel. The local medical association was well represented. The group included TRACY OSBORNE '61, TOM SMITH '61 and ANGELO CAPOZZI '56. 
Other members lending their support to the victorious Irish were: HERB BRAUN '27, C. F. "FRITZ" HAFRON '33, FRED PEAK '30, GENE DE LAY '41, J. PETER CLARK '64, who was accompanied by his wife, Nancy, ROBIN CORKERY '65, ED MADIGAN '64, TOM KERNAN '55 and JOE BOIVIN '55. The long-awaited biannual trek to Southern Cal is now. past history and our vote of thanks again goes to BEN OAKES '31 for bis untiring efforts in planning and coordinating the event More than 200 club members were scheduled to depart from the Bay Area on Friday and return Sunday after watching the Irish do battle with the Trojaits. Well look forward to seeing 
a good turnout of members at the 
Beer Party on Dec. 16. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
TULSA The Tulsa Group is proud to report on three successful events in the last three months. On Aug. 28, the dub held a picnic honoring the new and returning ND students. RAY SIEGFRIED '37 arranged the outing and a total of 122 Alumni, friends and families turned out at Farris SafTas' newly opened Indian Nations Park. The food, rides and hospitality were enjoyed by parents, students, and kids alike. Then on Oct 16, a bus trip promoted by JACK CHARON '48 took in the ND-Missouri game in Columbia. The party of 24 from Tulsa spent Friday night at the Four Seasons Lodge at the Lake of the Ozarks. On Saturday the bus was filled with other Tulsa people for the trip to and from Coliunbia. Saturday night was also spent at the Four Seasons Lodge and the happy mob returned to Tulsa on Sunday. Dan Pilcher from Oklahoma City won two 50-yard-Une tickets and JOHN DIVER '50 of Tulsa also received two tickets. The proceeds made a substantial contribution to the scholarship fund. George K. Miller '58 
VIRGINIA Freshmen Send-of! was held at CHIP BLILEY's home and our local alumni club sent six area boys off to ND. This was the largest contingent in many years from the Richmond area and speaks well of the recruiting committee headed by chairman JAMES WALLACE'61. An excellent time was had by all at the Freshmen Send-off due in great part to the efforts of BERNIE NIERLE, who charcoaled his famous homemade sausage and sweet com for the event 
All Notre Dame football games are being broadcast to the Metropolitan Area by local station WEET. The last-minute arrangements were due solely to the yeoman efforts of our club president FRANK WALLMEYER '63, who not only contacted the Mutual Broadcasting System, but also helped solicit the sponsors for the local station. Without Frank's efforts, the local area would have seen the Irish live only on National TV Oct 17. Local TV station WWBT Channel 12, is carrying the films on Simday morning. Anna Lange, wife of club treasurer JOSEPH LANGE '61 was one of the final contestants for the annual Tobacco Bowl Hostess. JERRY and Sandy OWINGS '60 were blessed with their first a son, weighing 7 lbs. Frank Carpin '62 
WASHINGTON, D.C. On Sept 25 the ND Club of Washington, 
D.C. flew 104 people via Purdue Airlines to witness the Irish shutout of Purdue 48 to 0 in South Bend. Among those on board were: JOHN DANIELS '54, HARRY DUTKO '56, RAY RAEDY '62, PAT GORMAN '59, BILL SCHAFER '59, FRANK WISNEWSKI '54, BOB WALLACE '51, JIM KENNY '40, TERRY SAUVAIN '63, DICK LYNG '40, VINCE CUSHING '45, TONY CASTORINA '56, PAUL QUINN '53, BOB COONEY '30, GAR ISACCO '66, DON CARBONE '53, WALT BRENNAN '41, PAT BANNON '39, MIKE DURR '56. JCmS GIBBONS '30. PAUL THEIS '48. HAROLD FLANAGAN. BILL MCLAUGHLIN '51. BILL GREIF '51. JOHN KELLY '47, BOB BECKERLE '60. ED MENARD '51, JIM DOUGHERTY. TOM FAY '61, RAY TRANCE '61. WALTER KEE, DAN LUNGREN '68. BOB MARTIN '54, JOHN SHEEHAN. JOHN RYAN '32, AL 
. BRANDES. NICK FERLAZZO '61. JIM GAMMON '56 and PETE KANE '59. PETE CANNON '56 and NORDY HOFFMANN '33 made the arrangements. 
The Oub's monthly luncheon series continued on Oct 13 at the Touchdown Club of Washington, D.C. The speaker was THOMAS McKINLEY '69 who held the attention of 50 membeis in attendance with his insights of current happenings on campus and what makes IRISH football the greatest On Oct 31 the biannual football excursion with over 300 rooters traveled to Philadelpfaia, Pa. for the ND-Navy game. The "Docs of Dixieland" rendered their musical delights. Chairman of the affair was FRANK GREGORY '66. 
Congratulations to DON RICE '61 on his recent appointment to assistant director, Office of Management and Budget Executive Office of the President The coming events for the Club are many. HARRY DUTKO's Community Action program in January: Nassau Holiday in February; St Patrick's Day Party and Club Elections in March; and UND Night in April. 
Join in on the Qub's varied activities and meet a past classmate. Contact Harry Dutko at 6307 64th Ave., 
E. Riverdale, Md. 20840. Merry Christmas and a Happy 
New Year! Harry A. Dutko '56 
WESTERN WASHINGTON The word for our membership is simply "participate." Of the 288 alumni, frien(k, parents, oidy 10-20 per cent participate, attend, and pay dues. This point is sadly noted and is being worked on— extremely hard. Not only is low level of activity embarrassing to those who attend, it is also discouraging to those who administer. But what can I do? You can begin by writing the secretary within the week with your name, address, class, business, home phone, business phone, wife's first name. That is the little form on the newsletter you've been intending to send. Send along your dues, so we can afford to continue trying to keep your local alumni news coming. We idan to do better in the future, but without active participation, we simi^y caimot You will shortly receive a tentative schedule of 1971 events upon which you are to vote for the kinds of events we should plan. We are also going to question you as to what part the ND alimmi organization plays in your life and what you intend to do to make our club the kind of club it should be. BRUCE and Carol COSACCHI '60 hosted the ND-Missouri football telecast By past dub activity standards this event was a smashing success. Food, good fdlowship. and victory were the order of the day. Apologies to the rai on their loss on the pool table. 
John J. GagUaidioi '58 



m-^\y 

ENGAGEMENTS Miss Carol Ann Murphy to Dr. DAVID R. FEDERICK '63. Miss Annete Pagliuzza to ROBERT A. MICHALAK '67. Miss Susanne G. Lee to LEONARD J. PELLECCHIA '68. 
MARRIAGES 

Mrs. Frankie A. Trochim to WALTER A. KOLBY '32, Oct 4. Miss Donna Ziegler to ANTHONY J. LICATE '65, March 14. Miss Joan Alberts to Capt. MICHAEL 
C. RUSH '66, September. Miss Maryann O'Hagan to BARRY KEATING '67, June 27. Miss Mary R. (Mame) Roark SMC '68 to PAUL C. ROCHE JR. '67, July 11. Miss Jean Wheeling to JAMES F. DRUCKENBROD '68, Aug. 8. Miss Donna Leverett to LEO WELSH '68, May 30. Miss Janis P. Karbowski to ROGER J. McCAULIFF JR. '69, June 28. 
Miss Gloria Keller to THEODORE R. ZIELINSKI '69, Aug. 15. 
ADOPTIONS 

Dr. and Mrs. ANGELO CAPOZZI '56, a daughter, Jeanne Damiana, bom Sept. 9. Mr. and Mrs. BRYAN HUGHES '69L, 
a daughter, Carrie Lynn. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP J. FACCENDA '51, a son, Michael Anthony, Oct. 21. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH M. DEZELAN '58, a daughter, Susan Elizabeth, July 29. Mr. and Mrs. TERENCE F. SHEA '61, a son, Kevin Terence, OcL 17. Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP E. BERTONI '63, a son, Christopher, Oct 24. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD A. DUNPHY JR. '64, a daughter, Tara Muriel, Sept. 5. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. SCULLY '64, a daughter, Julie Ann, Feb. 7. 
Mr. and Mrs. RONALD G. SCHUESS­LER '65, a daughter, Deborah Ann, Aug. 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL C. OVER­HOLSER JR. '66, a daughter, Synthia Ann, March 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES THOMAS BARRY JR. '67, a son, James Thomas III, Aug. 12. (Mother, former Eileen Kelly SMC '69.) 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL DETTOR '68, a daughter, Kristine Michele, Aug. 21. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH M. LEE '68, a son, David Joseph, Oct 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS J. AUSTIN '69L, a daughter, Mary Katherine, Aug. 21. Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY P. McLAUGH-
LIN '69L, a son, Timothy Allan, Oct 7. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK PACELLA '68L, a daughter, Theresa Lyn, Sept 24. Mr. and Mrs. JON PAUL RUBACH '69L, a daughter, Kristin, in July. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL A. KRUSE '70L, a son, Daniel Anthony Jr., June 11. 
SYMPATHY 
JOSEPH C. RYAN '24 on the death of his sister and QUIN A. DENVIR '62 and JAMES DENVIR '69 on the death of their mother, Mrs. Paul Denvir, Sept 7. 
PHILIP CENEDELLA -28 on the death of his mother, Jidy 27. JOSEPH F. DEEB SR. '31 on the death of his wife, Eleanor, Sept 1. JOHN C. FINNERAN '40 and JOHN 
C. JR. '67 on the death of father and grandfather, John, in September. JOHN A. SUTY '47 and ANTHONY J. '48 on the death of their mother, Oct 27. 
THOMAS B. CURRY JR. '50 on the 
death of his father, THOMAS B. '14, 
Aug. 30. 
ROBERT KANE '50 on the death of his 
father, John T. Kane, Sept 28. 
WILLIAM T. MURPHY '51 on the 
death of his father, WILLIAM J. "22, 
Sept. 22. 
JOHN J. MALIK JR. '52, L'54, on the death of his father, JOHN J. SR. •27-'29. ALFRED A. KAELIN '55 on the death of his father in August DONALD J. MOSER '56, on the death of his wife, Joyce, Feb. 3. JOSEPH J. ELLAM '58 and THOMAS 
J. '69, on the death of their father, Joseph 
H. Ellam, Oct 10. JAMES R. WALDRON JR. '58 on the death of his father, JAMES R. '26, Aug. 30. DAVID A. FAY '60 on the death of his father, Andrew J. Fay, Aug. 1. JOSEPH F. DEEB JR. '61 on the death of his mother, Sept. 1. 
JACK R. JOYCE '64, on the death of his father ROBERT C. '31, Oct 13. 
DEATHS 
GROVER C. MacGlLLlS '03, Oct 6. 
JOHN T. KANE (Minums '07) Sept 28. 
He is survived by his widow, Jessie, 2529 
Terry Lane, Sarasota, Fla.; four sons, John, 
ROBERT '50, Paul and Joseph, and one 
daughter, Mrs. Thomas Conry. 
THOMAS F. HOWLEY '11, Oct 9. He is 
survived by his widow, Zita, 429 N. Huron 
St, Wheeling, W.Va.; two sons, a daughter 
and five grandchildren. 
JOSEPH P. STEPPLER '12, Aug. 26, 
Highland, Wis. 
CHARLES W. LAHEY '13, Oct 4. He 
is survived by his widow, Vivian, of Shreve­
port. La.; a son and a daughter. 
THOMAS B. CURRY '14, Aug. 30. He 
is survived by his widow, Angela, 726 
Prospect Ave., Hartford, Conn.; four sons. 
Rev. James A., Chaplain (Maj.) Fredric 
C, David M., and THOMAS B. JR. '50; 
three daughters, Mrs. Charles D. Maynard, 
Mrs. E. Robert Dalton and Mrs. Edward 
J. O'Connell. 
WILLIAM J. MURPHY '22, Sept 22. He is survived by his widow, Elsie, 2308 Cardinal Dr.; a daughter, Rosemary, and two sons, WILLIAM T. '51 and Jack. 
THOMAS E. OWENS "22, Sept 28. He is survived by his widow, 2995 W. Bertrand Dr., Niles, Mich.; three sons, a dau^ter and 28 grandchildren. 
SR. M. CATHERINE RAYNOR MA '22. Ursuline Convent, Toledo, Ohio 43620. 
PAUL D. HOEFFLER '25, Aug. 27. He is survived by bis widow at 472 S. Franklin St, Wakes-Barre, Pa. 18702, 
RAYMOND J. KEISER 76, Sept 25. He is survived by his widow, Janet, 1 Clifford Ave., Pelham, N.Y. 10803; three daughters, two sons and five grandchildren. 

JAMES R. WALDRON '26, Aug. 30. He is survived by his son JAMES R. JR. '58, 80 Buckingham Rd., Upper Montdair, NJ. 07043. 
SR. M. MAGDELEN WIRMEL OSF "26, 

I.C. Academy, Oldenburg, Ind. 
JOHN J. MALIK SR. '27-'29, Oct 17. He is survived by his widow, Alice, 4815 Guernsey St, Bellaire, Ohio; a son, JOHN 
J. JR. '52, L'54; a sister and four grand­children. 
FRANCIS C. MILLER '27, Oct 12. He 
is survived by his widow, Ruth, Omaha, 
Neb.; two sons and two grandchildren. 
JOSEPH M. GERAGHTY *28, Oct 16. 
He is survived by his widow, Dorothy, 50 
Quentin Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14609; two 
daughters and a son. 
GEORGE D. SHAY '30, July 22. He is 
survived by his family, 220 Quaker Lane, 
N., West Hartford, Conn. 
WILLIAM B. BERNING '31, Nov. 1969. 
He is survived by his family at 708 W. 
32nd St, AusUn, Tex. 78705. 
ROBERT C. JOYCE '31, Oct 13. He is 
survived by his widow at 19 Country Club 
Beach, Rockford, III. 61103, and a son 
JACK R. '64. 
LELAND S. WALKER MA '31, Dec. 11, 
1969, Nfles, Mich. 
GEORGE P. MALONEY '34, July 23. 
He is survived by his widow, at 339 23rd 
St N.W., Canton, Ohio; three sons and 
two daughters. 
RICHARD E McMONAGLE '34, May 
31. He is survived by his family, 1645 Maywood Rd., South Euclid, Ohio 44121. 
JOHN R. FIRTH '38, Aug. 3. He is survived by his widow, Margaret, 43-24 243 St, Douglaston, N.Y. 11363. 
WILLIAM J. GALLAGHER •38-'41, Oct 
15. He is survived by his widow, Eleanor, of Potomac, Md., and eight children. 
THOMAS E McINTYRE '39, Jan. 7. He 
is survived by his widow at 3129 N. Illinois, 
Colorado Springs, Colo. 80907, two daugh­
ters and two grandchildren. 
THOMAS F. KELLY '41, June 15, Cleve­
land, Ohio. 
REV. THOMAS A. SHEEHY CSC '46, 
dean of students at King's College, Wilkes-
Barre, Pa., Oct 1. He is survived by two 
brothers and two sisters. 
JOHN S. BUCKLEY '51, Oct 18. He is 
survived by his widow, Teresa, 9818 S. 
Hamilton, Chicago, 111. 60643; four sons 
and a daughter. 
EUGENE R. CHARIE "51, Sept 4. He is survived by his widow at 1918 Hinchley Rd., Orlando, Fla. 32808. 

J.F. Keenan, trustee 
James F. Keenan, a trustee of the University, died Oct. 28 at his home in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 79 years old. 
Recipient of an honorary Doctor of Laws degree in 1957, he was named Notre Dame Man of the Year in Fort Wayne in 1964. He and Mrs. Keenan were donors of Keenan Hall as a memorial to their son, James F. Keenan Jr., who was killed in a 1941 accident. 
A member of the Class of '13 before he launched his business career, Keenan operated hotels in Fort Wayne and other cities. He also was on the board of directors of the Lincoln National Life Insurance Co., and the Lincoln National Corp. 
He is survived by his widow, Helen, 2110 Forest Park Blvd., Fort Wayne. 

ALUMNS ASK 
IS ND CATHOUC? 
While I read Mr. Michael Karnes' letter (ALUMNUS, Sept. 1970) with great interest, I am more particularly concerned with two statements made in his letter. The first being that, "The alumni are the past, depended upon for financial support but not for guidance." Here I would like to-remind Mr. Karnes that alumni, who would continue to contribute blindly to any institution that refused to accept their guidance, should be placed in a class reserved for fools. Such a concept would be diametrical­ly opposed to human nature and, therefore, in the long run simply will not work. 

The second comment in Mr. Karnes' letter that I would like to refer to is the comment with reference to the fact that, if the older alumni are to place blinders by their domi­nance and guidance on today's ND, that he would not be interested in sending his son or sons to ND. I would like to have Mr. Karnes give us his views on the same subject some 20 years from now. I happen to be one of those doty alumni of the Class of 1950 and 20 years have passed since I graduated. My darling wife, Dolores, and I are the proud parents of eight children. Our oldest son will attend a Catholic university next year. We are, therefore, in the position which Mr. Karnes refers to. We have a son and now the decision as to where to send him for his university training. 
Our son academically will qualify for entrance to the University. What then is our problem? We, quite frankly, Mr. Karnes, in good con­science are seriously concerned and doubtful that we should permit our son to attend ND. . Our concern is basically over whether ND today is a Catholic uni­versity. We are concerned that the ND of today is so busy standing for everything, that it no longer stands for much. We are concerned that ND's values have become too material­istic and are no longer sufiiciently spiritual. We are further concerned that this being the case, in good conscience, we should not continue to further support what, in our opinion, is the improper direction of ND. In closing, we would hope and pray that, when W. Michael Karnes of the Class of '68 does have a son who can qualify and he and his wife are able to send him to the University, 
that he will not at that time be faced 
with the troubled decision in good 
conscience that faces a poor, old, 
19S0 grad and his wife at this time. 
Raymond J. Martin 'SO 
11450 S.W. Berkshire St. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
REFUCnONS ON JIMMY 
Jimmy McGarraghy is dead. I learned of his death with considerable sur­prise while thumbing through a copy of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. I didn't really know Mr. McGarraghy, although I saw him on numerous occasions in the South Dining. Hall pay cafeteria. I had been told of the tremendous love he had for ND and the help he had given students through the years. Often as I saw him it occurred to me that such a blind devotion to Our Lady's school, with all its myths and symbols, was rather naive. His death would seem to symbolize and coincide with the death of an era. 
One Saturday afternoon while on our way to a Quincy High School football game, I told my father I was going to apply to ND. What prompted my breaking the news then was that it was always traditional for the local radio station to play the Victory March as broadcast time neared. I didn't know much more about ND than the emotion I felt in that tune. I don't think my father did either, but he replied, "There's no better school in the world than Notre Dame." Being an Irish-Catholic such a response would seem logical. ND had a special meaning. I guess it symbolized the little guy making good, no matter ' what his origin. 
I came to Notre Dame as an idealistic freshman. It was Ara Parseghian's first year. The afternoon of the Wisconsin game a huge crowd came winding through the corridors of Breen-Phillips and Farley shouting now-familiar chants for "victory." The spontaneous enthusiasm carried me along and the crowd of several hundred ended up at the Grotto, and somebody said a prayer for the team. I remember being somewhat em­barrassed. It seemed so corny. Yet wasn't this Notre Dame? 
The years have gone by, and I by some act of madness am still here as a graduate student. The crowd at Sweeney's on football weekends is an older lot, the old fieldhouse is silent on Friday evening, there is much about the student body that seems different, and Jimmy McGarraghy is dead. 
My only hope is that as we progress we can spare a moment to reflect on bow we got here; no matter how imperfect that accomplidunent may seem. 
Kevin Doyle '68 
823 W. Colfax Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 
KAcncAi pouncs AT ND As a member of the Class of '71 and co-ordinator for the Committee for a New Congress at ND, I read with great interest your "Student View" article dealing with apparent im­potence in practical politics this year at ND. I can see how the conclusi<Mis that nothing was really getting done this year were reached. But the ap­parent fact is not always the reality. It is a matter of fact that over 300 ND and Saint Mary's students were directly involved in the Indiana Senatorial campaign. 
Students were used almost totally on the phones. That instrument maintains a certain anonymity, thus avoiding the taboo surrounding the use of student volunteers in cam­paigns around the country this year. Our effort was not a glorious one, but an effective one. The effectiveness can be seen in the results of the Indiana campaign. Senator Hartke is the apparent victor with a slim 4,400­vote "mandate." Pre-election predic­tions had indicated that Senator Hartke would take this district (Third Congressional District) by about 6,000 votes. In fact he carried it by 12,000. The local Democratic party was astounded by the turnout of registered Democrats. We at Notre Dame just smiled. The eve of the 
election and election day itself we had called about 80% of tte registered Democrats in St Joseph County and reminded them to vote, as well as offering them rides and informing them of their polling places. This was done by students. It had an immediate effect, and got out a record number of voters in an off year. Other things were done by students here, but none of them of this magnitude. 
No, we were not glorious, possibly not even newsworthy, but we won, and no heads were smashed up against the wall of an "unresponsive" political system. We worked through effective channels, and our efforts were rewarded. 
C. Barney Gallagher 503 Allen South Bend, Ind. 
Mr. Francis P. Clark Head. Microfilming & Photo. Lab. Memorial Library-No tre Dame, Ind. 46556 
•r-ftJ^^^^^^^fe-^ 
#m *-«m 9 m m a a • v « «^l 

• •••••••••••••••••• A^k • • • • n
• ••••••••••••••••a* •jKm.s • a > V 
• •••••••••••••>>••• oo ••«•I 
L,*_P ••••••••••••••••• • w • " • • • 
....'•y-i... 
• •aa«a*«aaaaaaaaa a% • 
aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa — 
• aaaaaaaftaaaaaaaaaa • I 

._» _ _»_—_•._»_ _,aBa»»aa»*Baaaaar--'"'^ 
JKXW&WWXVX-X^^^ 
• •••••••••••••••••••••a Oflr* <ULJC^%JU*_*.«_*_*.
• ••••••••••••••••••••a OQCOOOOOOCClL*—* *.J
(••••••••••••••••••••a •vinooQOOOOiDC*_«.*.c
• •••••••••••••••••aaaaa* * " ^ H H HHT^^^* * T1 • ••••>«>>>>••>••••••••••« •JOCOOC*)C* * OO 
• ••*>•>*«>*>>••«>•• k_j > a • a • *•.•[JLJUI-* Vji—*J^K 
• ••••••••••••••••a • JEB • * • * a • a •VnrS • •^•..^^n 
>aaaaa«aaaa>aa>sa> tiflt* aaa------*---^^^" 
• •a*a>aa>a>asaaaa M^ aS a • a i 
• aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa* •_* • a aa 
aaaaaaaaasaaaaaawa »_0^m a a a< 
• •aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa* »^a ^ j aa 
_________ aaaa«««a 'LfJ'^^^^ •"' 
-—— _ _ V ^ a a a • • aaaBaaaaaBBBaa b__—.^^s
JOrS m^ • a a a4U>* aaaaaaaaaaaaawa •^^T 
r--•>. w-n-ir^b • ajOi • a • tf^ aaaaaaaaaaas • • A^ • • • a ­
a a • • • OOr^B • • •Vb «^ •••aaaaaaaaaaS* 9^^r» mjLjL^t
I • * * *OCBL* • • • • •.•jTaj* ••aaaaaa a a a a • a a a •.AX*^OC 
a a • ajOOC* ••••• • wm^ •••aaaaa aW • a • a a a a^^Tm a n
I a a a nCCK ••••••• • •« •aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaeae a^T 
;!;!>S5! 

laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaacaaaaaaaaaaaaa aj*i 
• aa*aaa**a>aaaaaaa«a«a>aaaa*«aaaBaaBa*>a a.a^a 

laaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 9 _M m * 
aaa^aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaavaaa ^aa 
I • • • • • 

Xv.v.v.-.-.-.'.-.-.'.v.v.v.'.-.-.'.-.-.-.'.flOw.'.v 
'fl •••••••aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaavaa 
• aaaaaaaa ^^• 
a ay • d^a • • • a a a aaaaaaaa ^^^# 
I • CP '^ • • • a a aI I a a a a• a•• • •_• • • •Jr« t • • • • • a a >• a• a • • a• • • <
a*a*aa«a UC* 
• a^fajfa a • a'a'a'a* a •JC** • • • • a • • 
a a ak^ • • a a aaa<
I • • »jfm a • a a a a a 
• • • • • ••••••m\
•^•-•-•.•.v.v.v.v.v 


'•*•*•*<
;.;.;y;.;XwXv!vX; 

• •••••• •Jt.a ••••••. 
*•«•••• mwm • • • • • aZ 
laaaaaaaaaaaa • • • • •«••• • a^JL^ • • • • ^K 
• ••••••••••••a • 1 
aaaaaaaaaaaaa g» • • • • • • *jQtBr* • • • ^T*^ 
Iaa a • • • aaa a a a ^aa 








